·'F
M I
o..
.. t . . . .t" ... . Cadl -1
VOL. 30. .OLU*MBIA , LO ,ISIANAFRIDAY , .ý 'G ýl ý, 141G.
;$ ·.,O I.tB~
";· · . i ni
RECR WILL GO
TO BORDER
LOUISrA1 -, F!J-.D HOSPITAL IS
WAITING FOR MORE EQUIP
MEfNTAT CAMP STAFFORD.
MANY ARE ARRIVING DAILY
As Soon as Equipment Arrives They
Will Be' Olered to ,-ownsville
and Likely Will Leave Within
thq,Nfext Few Days.
Alexandria.--
It is announced that recruits are ar
riving at, Camp Staffore daily from
various sut4 s of the state, about
sixty having reached here within the
past fe C;iy.%. They are being
equipped -as rapidly as possible and
will be a j d to different com
panies of the First Louisiana Infantry
which is wpot.tione4 at San Benito,
Tex.
The field hospital corps, which is
under command of Mdjor O. L. Poth
ier, and whicjl has a complement of
sixty men, r Is he'il here to be thor
ougnly equlpped before proceeding to
the border. 4 greater portion of this
equipment jibe ereceivcd and an
other car load is expectbd to arrive at
once. .A..saonas it reaches here, it
is expected that orders will be receiv
ed for them to move at once to the
front. Thy p'obhably wit be ordered
to Brownv ', anri litely will leave
during t fIsent4 week.
Majoi~iarles S Miller and Captain
S. Ross Yancey. of the quartersmas
ters' departmentc,,ill remain at Camp
Scafford as loni-4tiare being sent
here from the different recruiting sta
tions throughout tle state. They will
provide the -ruts with equipment
and send them to San Benito to join
the different companies in an effort to
brinm: Jo t reqwired w.r
B F NEWS AND NOTES.
Lo siana's xew election laws, which
camer ut of a, Democratic legislative
cauc , are to be made an issue in the
nati 1 campaign by the Republicans,
acco ing to the statement of Louis
iana epublicans. It is said that
copi of the new law. with its re
mar le penalty clause and its re
stric ns designed to keep down op
posi n, have been sent to Republican
nati 1al headquarters together with
cire stantial accounts of the man-i
ner 47d reao.;.of passage of the
meas res. r.
W kmen motored to Stonewall
frome ansfleld recently and made a'
good beginning.J the grading and
wide jng of the model road one mile
nort] of here :at th'e DeSoto-Caddo
pari$ line. The road will be grav
eled ll through DeSoto parish. The
mem)rs~'f tth, lparty were: Messrs.
Atkidoflire, Dlhlzell, Gilmer and
Hewjt.
11 -----
T¶I neliuPrtly has arranged with
Pow l, Gerard & Co., of Chicago, to
bon the pardsh indebtedness, about
$20. 9, through the Bank of Lafa
yett( bonds tQ aun sixteen years, and
bear 15 per;c. nt iiterest. One-half
mill ix wis set'aside to meet inter
est / d liquidate the debt. The jury
thus aves three banks, charging 8
per --,:,- *
Thb 'ltilkc do.Winnfield has sold the
Cooper pl~ntatiOn, on Red river, to
tne P r,.$gId6 Stock Company. This
comlip#fi.will :alse cattle and Duroc
hogs;f~:?tfJ .i4 V toD-' ck ~ will be fed in
wintei6'i1 nflage raised on this farm.
The question of voting an addition
al bond issue of $600,000 for the con
struction of 4fgpways, in Calcasteu
parish Is bei "Iesbnted to the big'
taxpayers, 41d-bhas me with almost
universald o al:
The ~i"il stoffee and .store of
Richard 4. K ~,'lh' Wilhdh the Flu'lker
postofflt~lj'dteOf six miles above
Amite, was robbed of some money
and goods and stamps to the amount
of about $200. - ..
J. J. Thomas. one of the largest
land owysfknd3&e k rowiiirtsldents
of Acadia paris'h. was found dead at
the VgJP t oti ne oflpie'rarms
two 'Wfif'hk f m'fles from e lsther
wood.
An attempt to raise alcsalstshool
tax tr F lUbUrmilIsf.o hvEan mflls ln
the Pine graded school district ;re
centlg*l.tS.e te:4at the polls. ,
The first ship to enter the port of
Batop,?l e, Wps the John D. Rocke
fellei, ''-\ihf cabie up fromin New Or
leans to the 'Standard Oil docks.
Five hundred members of the WshBt
'ington Artillery and the seventy-Ave
,troopers of the First Troop Ltulsila'
Ihave settled down to border life at
typical border town, Donna, located
-eight miles from the Rio Grande on
the branch of the St. L. B. & M. R. R.
The run from Houston to Donna was
accomplished in much faster timn
than was at first expected, the two
special trains getting the right of
way after leaving Bay City without,
much trouble.
Tents were pitched. The three bat
teries of the Washington Artillery
worked hard pitching the officers'
tents and putting the finishing
touches to the camp. The artillery
and cavalry occupied grounds north
of the railroad, on the side of the
town least inhabited. Donna is a
small place, but is cheerful compared
to the barrenness of the border pro
per. The soldiers all seem pleased
with the prospects and are making the
best of existing conditions.
It was first expected that the artil
lery and the troop would camp at Mer
cedes, a town about ten miles east of
Donna. Owing to the many companies
at Mercedes, Major Owen and the cons-.
manding officers agreed upon the camp
at Donna. There are, in all, about
1200 Khaki-clad soldiers at Donna.
Two battalions of Texas infantry are
located here, numbering in all- about)
600. There is a regimental band, too.
The artillery has about 500 mnen aid;
the cavalry troop consists of about
75 riders, most of whom arb from Jet
nings, La. There are five New Orleans
boys in the troop, all considered good
soldiers.
Everyone here "totes" a gun. The
"dough boys" have their riles. and
have ninety rounds of ammunition
apiece. It is considered dangerous :to.
question their soldiering ability. Tj
cavalrymen will be, given atmuniftto i
for their rifles and also will be issued.
pistols. The artillery boys already
have pistols and will be given enough
powder to protect themselves... :
As a result of the adopton of the
compulsory education act by the. Leg-,
islature the Lake Charles schools wfvt
be taxed to capacity in the fali:' The
schools were already crowded, and it
is estimated that .theatenda.e-,,
fridease byitt' least b0 pupl, ' ome
extra provision will have to be made
for- the colored pupils. In the parish
outside..the. city the * enroll
ment for the year was
4,600, and 500 whit Q ored
children-will be addi pul
sory school law. \ '
At a special election held at Pleas
ant -Hill-.or .the..purpose-.-of voting a
bond issue to run five years for $30,
000it 'was .acrried by a vote as fol
lows: For bonds 83 votes, property
$41,350, and against proposition one
vote, prop~erty $370.
. Secretary .E. -E. Shackford, of the
Laf a'ette Fair Association, is now
distilbutiag 'bisa. catalogs for the
eighth annual fair, October 12-15,
showing' a cash pr;einiunm lis os ~ji~-'
ciar.pries.. ..A.speaiat :eature :will be
the sale October 14 of pure-bred swine
tinder dtlirection of the State Swine
Breeders' Association, - entries to
which wJll be-otn tq Jll weembasEu
and boys' clubs of the state.
The sixth week of the summer nor
mal at Lafayette closed andrid itf
cates of credit were granted 'to sev
enty-five students who had finished
the prescribed course. Over 200 re
main to complete the full course of
nine weeks. President Stevens and
faculty feel highly gratified over the
splendid progress made and work ac
complished.
Governor Pleasant appolnted J. JI.
Guss, assessor oft Catuhoulq prei'
Vice K. P. Holstein, who dtedl In Jai
uary. Catahoula has been without.j
assesolt' shce. Mr. Rolistn'i~s ,
but the fact did not becomb.o· ak
known at the capital until the ab
st-Ldt of the parish tailed to come in
to the State Board of Equalization at
ter a two weeks' wait.
According to data compiled by Com
mJessiner Leon I. Kahn of the depart
ment of public- utiities, the city of
Shreveport this year has sold flteen
cars of: waste paper colleoted by the
streiet eleaing department, at a good
ptofit, There wrere ttwenty tons to
tli car, and t)le net profit wa about
$7 pr car, making the total remune
ration for the city about $2,100.
Fire, caused by detective 'wiring,
b-oke out on the second floor do the.
building ti St. Mary street, ie1r Con
stance, New Orleans, used by' the Re
de'mptorist Fathers as a lscoollbouse,
and caused damage of $150. The loss
is covered by Insurance.
.The" Thi'rd fJudtfelt. Hlltrlct' 'ti,
tite i0rfittee met 'at'.Gifbiiblami8 gh'i
ordered, a Democratic pritmauy ere
-ticn to: nominate :a judge' and dia
trict attQrmt y, }d state Commttee.
mpn on S·eptember 12. Declarations
of candidacy must be filed ono.or .),
fore July 31.
THIS MAY "SUN BELONG TO UNITED STATES
S... ... .. .......
:. -+J ý· :. .+: . .. .... ý.i ,.'.-:.:.:.- :.t . ! ,+ . . . . . f.
11":.Y. .., , . . r :" '11J .<,":t"): '(h :
!" .:-'.:: ! -Y ," .: ):1 % ;}C . . ..:t. f ::..... . " ". . . . .." : · ". " , - ..
•~
ý ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ W ' " .ý..^' frY
View o f' C h a rlotte A ntelie, o ne of the chief t<)w zu ofl thte D a ni sh \\ e sct l udt q+' th e s 4' . of tr h i {'h t '. thi -t' U nited
Statesa Is being, negotiated. The three tshmnds. R. Thomas, St. John and St. t'rvis, lie about fif'ty wiles off the
Nast coast of 11orto Rivo. They" are 142 square miles in a.rea and support a population of 271,0l00 p ersons. :Near
l, till ,the inhabit'ants of the Islands are heeroes who live by' the cultivation ~f sugar cane.
4T~'~: ··r·:: ~ c·. 4·i:; ·.
.. (
*,:. * *··."* * e ': 4:- ·
;P:::-~`':...; ;".'~i::.: ~ %\ Y $. .: - 'la··' · 4 -.5~
4*444,.~ ~ ~ ~ .'& ., ..- -4
Vk fCalteAieeoeo h heft1L.u h au· % 1(.'4 h'Nl a hihiltetde
'~taes s bingnegoiatd Te treeisia4~ t. h~fial, St loa ad S. (rjix Il' ~~Utfift iiile of th
eastcoat o Por() 1~oThe are142aqare ilesiiiere an '.upor tijuaulatotiof 71,00 prsos. ear
i~ ~1 ie iibaitat~ o th l~and ar 'goes ho iveby he ultiatin o suar ane
22 DIE IN TUNNEL
BY GAS EXPLOSION
FOUR INVESTIGATIONS STARTED
INTO DISASTER AT CLEVE
LAND.
Cleveland.---Federal offtcials inves
tigating the watierworks tunnel disas
ter which. cost 22 lives, ordered all at
tempts to reach the bodies of 12 men
in the tunnel abandoned. Tests of the
;gas in the tunnel showed that it wat"
,hiighly explosive and the officials fear
-, a second eiplosion. An attempt
14 be made to pump out the gas so
that the work of recovering the bod
ies may progress.
All hope that any Of the 12 men
trapped .in thile tunnel are alive was.
.abandoned. Ten bodies, those of mem
±'bers 'f two rescue parties which tried
to reach'the .oomed men, .but them
selves succumbed to the deadly gas,
prere roooeveiL, Eight. 4tilp4
aio , ýe r o r-,ft 4eveU partI.%re
recover,
Four investigations-city, county,
state and federal-will be started tb
detertmine the cause of the explosion
near the 'five-mile crib end of the tun
vnel last night.
The' effdrts of Gustav C. Van Duzen,
superintendent ,of waterworks con-{
styction, and the members of the two
rsceue parties, to reach the men im
prisoned without gat b'elmets or pul
motors increased the death list. A
third rescue party equipped with the
safety devices entered the tunnel and
recovered the rescuers, ten of whom
were dead. Van Duzen was among
the reCers revived.
Ca.. ne Crop Prospects.
Washington.--The Louisiana field
agenth the Bureau of Crop Estimates
pl-ces -the cane acreage of Louisiana
this year at about 15 per cent above
1915, when about .183,000 acres were
harvested and 275,000,000 pounds of
sugar made. 'ihe condition of the
drop J.uly . was 10 per cent above
the' 10-year average, while last year
about Jarvest time it was 24 per cent'
below' the 10-year average.
Arkansas Is Dropped.
St. ;Joseph, Mo.-Before adjourning !
after a :two.,days' session here, 'direc
tore of the Jefferson Highway Associa
tlon:voted, to drop the states, of Ar
kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota and
BUth Dakota from membership in the
'association. As now located, the, lhih
way floes not traverse, any, of ,these
States. The next meeting of the as
'octlatiot will be 'in Muskogee, Okla.,
Hettle Green Will Filed.
bellows FEals, Vt.--The viU .of TMrT.
Hetty Green was admitted to.probate.
here without contest. Mrs. Green left
her ptitre estate to her son, Colonel
EdwardH. R. Green, and daughter,
Mrs. Matthew Astor' WIlket. C'ohle
Gree hled' a bond for $i,000O as tu8-'
tee tir the fund left his sister.' '
Demand That U;,. Act..
New T.OUP.L-The organization-.for~mi
ed by individuals and 4La  gaffectd
by the British commercial blacklIst,
adopted resolutions declaring it the
duty'bf the Unite! States government
to d~mand that' Great' 'Bltain :r.evok
the blacklist:. The organizattAi wlU
be known as tshe Association ,to:eiMst
British Domination of American Comi,
merce.
Orier Weekly Reports.
Wastiingtbi:--The Wari Departmen
had ,istruct~ ai t Vy ominanders o
ithe bbrdt'r 'to su1dmit'w8kly report
of their cobmmands[ -describlhi "th
treatment accorded the men, and d
taillp ( dutjes.~fty as y f
,"; ° : ;
• ' , ° . , ,. ,
EXPLOSION CAUSES
$25,000,000 LOSS
AMMUNITION AWAITING SHIP
MENT TO ALLIES DESTROYED
FIVE STATES FELT SHOCK.
New York.--Property !ass estimated
at'"$2,S000,o00 was caused by a
series Iat terrific explosions of ammu
ni{tior#,awaiting shipment to the. en
tente, allies and stored on Black Tom
Isla5IYpbC,small strip of land jutting
into "ew York Bay off Jersey City.
Th ,ks of life still is problematical.
It witlltot be determined definitely un
til1thr has been opportunity to check
up tl w~orkmen employed on the is
land: 'on boats moored nearby.
Ti'e known to be dead and at
least more are missing. Scores
Of 8 were injured, some of them
p mostally.
, which were felt in
.p siliMf Dittm s are
tilwt ia' lp'of gi'eat quantities of dyna
mite; t ltoltutifne and other high ex
plosivbs; followed by the bursting of
thotisands, of shrapnel shells which
sho*ered the surrounding country and
water for miles around.
Fire that started soon after the first
great crash destroyed 13 of the huge
warehopses of the National Storage
Comrpany on Black Tom Island, 'ln
which were stored merchandise valued
at betwie .$12,000,000 and 15,000,000.
The flnes, shooting into the clouds,
were reflected against New York's
piky,line" of towering office buildings,
which only a few moments before were
shake; to their foundations as if by
an earthquake. Miles of streets in
Manhattan were strewn with broken
glass And 'shattered signs.
Eaijly reports of heavy loss of life
were 'impossible of verification, and
the. dMthorities, asserted the number
of deaths probably would be small. It
was :aic that, owing to the extent of
the wreckage, it niight be several days
before the exact figures. could be ob
tained.
Thq cause of the disaster has not
been determined. Officials of the Na
tional Storage Company and the Le
high Valley Railway, which algo eaf
fered heavily through loss of proper
ty, declared that reports .to them
thowed a fire started on a barge be
longing to an independent towing com
pany, that had been moored alongside
a dock used by the railroad company
to. transfer ammunition shipments
from trains to vessels in the harbor.
TIle; barge, It was said, was there
without authority either of the rail
road 0r the storage company. The of
flciald refused to disclose the name
of, tho independent ,towing company,
gylltg'khey were . Investigating. ' to
ascertain whether the barge purposely
had been set on fire as the result of
a p~lt." A; statement issued by the
Lellish Valley Ralalway Company said:,
"' .lrtegn briek storage houses out
of le 24 owned ,aid,operated by the
.Nfitlai Storage Cotiipiny, and six
pibs ownhd ,Iy the storage company,
asfl4 Iased .Lo th' ihigh Valley ,road,
Wteldadestroyed. Several others of the
,tbrLWarehh'rses were badly .damaged,
' t sope .pilnor damage way done to
the Ielgh ;yalie gPin elevators. In
ad4ito, ls £a 'R as is known, 86 load
ed aks, were' deftroyed.
m:I g~cording. to thip evidence obtain
d,bY o1idaligof the rilroad, the fire
stalted in a :barge belonging io an'
indpendent towing company' which
had.beep moored:alongside the rail
ro conpio~fis 'ddck expresSly against
ord~erh.
Seiond Term Foi l Hamlin.
.,Wallingtoii.:2iChtrles S. Hamlin of,
Mssachusetts, nOw the governor of
t Federal Reserve Board, was nomi
ted for anothel term by Prstuient
'Wlson."
I' . -
FORWARD ENGLAND
BLACKLIST PROTEST
RESTRICTIONS ON AMERICAN
TRADE ARE SET FORTH
VIGOROUSLY.
Washington.-American Ambassa
dor Page will present to the British
Foreign Office a formal note protest
ing against the blacklisting of Ameri
can business firms under the trading
with the ienemy act. In announcing
that the communication had been
transmutted to Lonhbn, Acting Secre
i tary Polk said it discussed only the
general principle! of international law
involved without specifically taking up
cases of individual firms blacklisted.
The note, officially described at the
department "as a protest," is said au
thoritatively to be positive in tenor
and to leave no doubt regarding this
government's attitude, It is about 1,
90* words' in length.
ing detafls' d ihe representations
made, It was understood this govern
ment's view -that illegal restrictions
are imposed by the blacklist order
upon the freedom of American trade
is set forth in vigorous terms. Some
modification of the order, it is believ
ed, is insisted upon. There have been
indications that should diplomatic ef
forts fail to bring relief to affected
American firms, some form of retalia
tion would be considered by the Unit
ed States.
The British ambassador conferred
with Mr. Polk and it is believed he
was given a full explanation of the
basis of this government's protest in
international law. Individual cases of
'blacklisted firms, it is expected, will
be taken up in personal conversations
here and at London.
Will Burn $50,000,000.
Mexico City.--Fifty million dollars
in Mexican. pater money will be
burned within the next few days in
the courtyard at the National Palace,
according to an announcement by the
government. This money is of the old
\Vera Cruz issue and has been sup
planted by a new issue made in the
United States. The public has been
invited to witness the burning of this
money.
Another Vote of Credit.
London.-Another vote of credit
will be asked for, the premier inform
ed the House of Commons. It will be
the eleventh since the outbreak of the
war ana probably will be for 309,000,
000 pounds, the same amount as the
last one. This will bring up the total
for the war to 2,682,000,000 pounds, or
about $13,410,000,000.
' Plan Musketry School.
Lawton, Okla--A special term of
the school of musketry of the United
States army, for instruction in the
use of machine guns, will start August
20 at Fort Sill. Officers from many
divisions of the army and those in
charge of machine gun companies of
the National Guard are expected to
Iattend.
Nebraska Progressives.
Lincoln, Neb.-Nebraska Progres
sives in the state convention without
dissension resolved to continue the
party's existence. The convention
ratified the action of the State Cen
tral Committee in endorsing the can
didates of the Republican national
ticket.
Will Censor All News.
Ctolumbus, N. M.-Announcement
wavs made at military headquarters
Ithat Gener'al Pershing has issued or
derslthat news emanating from Co.
lumbus and the Mexican field shall be
more strictly censored than hereto
fore.
MEXICAN BANDITS
KILL U. S. TROOPERS
ONE AMERICAN CAVALRYMAN SE
RIOUSLY WOUNDED IN CLASH
BANDITS LEFT FOUR DEAD.
ROBBERS WERE DRIVEN OFF
Fight Occurred in Early Morning and
Small Body of U. S. Troops Called
to Carranzistas Across tne
River to Aid Them.
San Antonio. -- Carranzita and
United States troops fought side by
side in thee engagemlent with Mexican
bandits soul it of Fort lIanlcoc'k, Texas,
according to the ofticial rt-port fmn
Brig.-Gen. George hell, Jr.. at El J'a-.o,
to Maj. Gen. Funston.
After the bandits had been sur
rounded in a ranch house on thle Amer
ican side of the Rio Grande River and
an American customs guard had been
killed, another customs guard named
Bean ran down to the river bank arld
called to a detachment of Curranzikhtas
on the Mexican side to come ovr 'and
assist the American troops.
A captain and eight soldiers re
sponded. They joined in the tighting,
which became general. Soon, the re
port says, the bandits tied from the
ranch house and retreated over the
river, leaving behind four dead.
The American dead numbered two,
Private John Tweney, F Troop, Eighth
United States Cavalry, and Robert
Woods. customs guard. Sergt. Lewis
Thompson, F. Troop, Eighth United
States Cavalry, was seriously wound
ed. lHe was made the target of three
bullets.
The report of Gen. Funston does not
make clear the manner in which the
tight, which took place about 1:80 a
m.. began, nor does it indicate the oh
ject of the bandits in crossing to the, ,
American side.
S3en. FWrant,asiit;ý ,
-oever, th.,t the, ban "- ; ;
I prised by the Americang, wete' a..
tempting to escape from the ""ar n''
zistas, who later engaged in the battle. '
The latter had been in pursuit -of''
the marauders for several days. ,
The American force consisted o .
elgnt men under command of SergLt.',
Thompson, two hospital corps meni
and the two customs guards. T hey"
speedily surrounded the Mexican' "i,,
the ranch house. Woods was the'flrt, )
to fall, laid low by a bandit who hiad
slipped outside to aim at him.,
His death' was avenged a manet .,/,
later by one of the hospital corps.:
men, who shot down the bandit jut ast, .
he was fleeing back into the house..
It was at this point that Bean sum .,
i moned the Carranzistas. Brisk fli'ng
followed for a time. Then q6let
reigned in the ranch house. A'cau
tious investigation disclosed 'tHre,
more dead bandits inside its w'adls&'
SThe remainder had succeeded in.get
ting out and making their way ove,
the Rio Grande. The Carranzistas foh
lowed in pursuit. Gen. Funston said
that no American troops would join
the chase. The number of hand'its
Swho escaped is not known here.
Six Civilians Executed. ' .
London.-Six civilians have beeni.
executed by the Germans at Ghent ::'
charged with "war treason," accsid-'..
ing to a Reuter's Amsterdam disstc . ,td ,
quoting the Telegrant. The dispatch
also says that the Germans have, re
moved 7,000 men, 2.000 women 1ad 150
pupils of the Turgot Institut fron.
Roubaix, presumably for agricq!ut.l
work in Germany.
Motor Vehicles in US. '8. '
Washington.-The number of,,mo- ,
tor vehicles registered in the 'Upited
States last year averaged one for
every 44 persons. The total nOlbulr.
of vehicles registered was 2,465.6,i;4.
Ninety per cent of the $18,245,700 pqJd
as fees was spent for bulhiW slid "'/
maintenance of country 'ahb state
roads. There was an increase of 734, .:i
325 registrations over 1914.
Death ForWoman 81p'. ;:'
Berlin.-"A military court: at Mai,,
,seilles on May 18," says the Overseas.,
News Agency, "senteeced a woman
named 1'fadt to death t'eb'headd't"rd '
espionage. The Suprem' Cbart :ha'v- ;'
ing rejected the eppeal, the sen~ace..
of death against the woman has be
come valid." ' ' • 'I
Senate Conflsms Clarki. ;, ; ...
. Washington.-The Squnate; .waai-,
moumsly confirmed the noniiratJon .of
John H. Clarkh of Cleveland s ads~ae.' L
clate jistiee otfthe Suprer6e.orallt. to '
succeed former Justice Huguaes. ,lTs -
tir-e Clarke will take his place on tIle
bench when the court .cotivenes st :-r
all. . ' . ,
''1,,, ,'ii
