■ hIJMvM LJ I<iO/s\\Tr TTVI i l |-l'!!;!'''! l rTl!!|[cl|.!,^l,!ui|linßl:Jßl
M Ijf way TOM II PY f | i\\ // I \\J ragy I — ft I ilffllpr BWBBMWI ~
TL VvjiSkHiJ)AW ' (pJ AyAwSj/Sj a\ - k®\
ftfjliTH YKAK. No. '•
BELIEVES in OKANOGAN
G. A. Shamberger, who located In the
,X V last full, where his place of iesi
2ri l 8 locally known ns Shamberger
SSii.is' returned home last Thursday
S* :» extended trip through the mld-
Su west Mr. ShainbciKer is a practical
eioirlenced farmer, a gentleman of
S; more than ordinary intelligence ana
Snirallv a close observer, especially is
Servant of those things he is dD
Sitfv liderested In, and that is agricul
brings back anything but a llat
2, report of the condition of grain
a large scope of country imrticu
!Sv celebrated in the past for its prolific
y,L of the best wheat on tlie market
fc,tates that In the lied River valley of
5. north, one of the greatest granaries
a North America, so tar as he could as
«rt»hi wheat will be almost a tota fail-
Z The crop promises to be so light, as
u oute 1L that it would not pay a man
-S. harvest it if he were given the grain
2 h stands for nothing. Ihe same ran
salons prevail to a large extent in Min
the Dakotas and Montana, drain
SETup only a few inches even this late
«Tth« season, some of n heading out, in
Sort of fhe Helds. He saw; much cut hay
Sot was totallv ruined. Tins deplorable
Seiltioii Is due to a lale spring am! cx
wMtlve rains. . . . ....
*ln speaking of the Inferior conditions
—. 0 i u,e mountains Mr. Shamberger
SmarkeU that the people of this part of
■ Okanogan valley siiould feel thankful
S, their lines are dropped In such pleas-
S Solaces. Mr. Shamberger is a new re
lit In the growing army of Okanogan
■ baiters but In his enthusiasm he has the
veteran faded. He came here with
Jgopeu mind, prepared to form his „wn
’hnoressions, and would not take the word
ffaov*mar. as to the climatic conditions
Jtz possibilities of the soil. He was
JJI M conviction, but Hint conviction
oast come through personal experience.
BKjtltnV— and experiment. He la now
MiMled to remain.
Mr Shamberger has lived in various
MTU Of ‘he United States, front the At-
BUc to the Pacific coast, from Maryland
STcallfornla. He has no hesitancy In say
tag that the climate is the most pleasant
adMUltable he lias ever experienced. He
Unks the purity of Hie water cannot be
ttdlled. neither can it ever become con
sunlnated As he puts it, the air cur
iMseome down the valley from the pine
■ld mountains impregnated with the in
•toonting and health-giving Ichor of the
Unm Coming from those everlasting
w here Impurities cun never find
. JEnem. this atmosphere will ever oon-
Mlg the same elements of virtue. As to
i SVII. he says its characteristics and
i'<s(mlcal ingredients are such as to In
■ m bountiful productiveness of fruits.
jSnge plants and vegetables. It being
■Br necessary to study and experiment
«Sl the soli to secure the best results.
It. Shamberger believes in Hie cow ns
' i MHirce of income, staling that within a
■ (nr hours after possession the animal
Becomes a fruitful producer. He is satis
■ M with his brief experience with nlfa.fa
*4htt creameries and cheese factories ane
j, JC prominent coming industries of this
yew: Mr. Shamberger is a believer
la the Okanogan vallev. and we only wish
m were able to wield a pen as c'oquentiy
. aa that gentleman can wield his tongue
**•4 IN would paint word pictures of the
gOMibllitles of the Okanogan vallev that
would cause people at a distance to drop
anything and everything they have In
hand and come this way arunnlng..
LUCKY NUMBERS.
BmMm those named from Oroville as
tawing land In the Colville lottery, con
ducted under government auspices, and
mention of which is made elsewhere in
this Issue, the following are the names of
the lucky number holders in the countv,
and it may be said in passing, the Oka
nogan county secured a very fair share
of the homesteads distributed: No. 26. Joe
M. Coffey, Omak: 58 Edward W. Roberts.
Riverside; 398 Nels 11. Bergren, Omak:
(44 Wilber O. Moore. Brewster; 895
Homer H. Myers, Okanogan; 930 Mlchaeel
F, O'Connor, Omak: 93s Thos. H. Alrey.
Omak: 953 A. J. Protzman, Okanogan:
HIS Elia Hancock, Twlsp; 1210 Ernest O.
Osterherg. Okanogan: 1306 Chester 1..
Fry. Omak: 1401 Richard L. Spence.
Brewster: H2« Alice Sperry. Molson:
1(71 Adolph Dinhof. Omak: 1496 Wm. C.
Galbraith. Brewster; 1636 Percy C. Gal
bralth, Brewster: 1669 Arthur C. Little,
Oitytk; 1727 Albert Wotrlng, Omak; 1773
deo. Crossland. Brewster; 1858 John K.
Morris. Riverside: 1933 Ruses! B. McClel
lan, Brewser: 1936 James E. Japulsh
Omsk: 1999 Ira Freer, Okanogan' 2059
John Johnson. Okanogan: 2132 Theodore
T. Bugbee, Brewster: 2152 Alice V. Mes
ser. Omak; 2196 Chas. Shawbaugh, Omak'.
2199 C. Russell Holmes, Synurep; 2279 Ed
M, McFarland. Okanogan: 2526 Arthur W.
Betaque, Tonasket: 2535 Roy O. Gish,
Omak: 2515 Oliver T. Thompson, Tonas
kst; 2550 Hans P. Pederson. Omak' 2583
Roy P. Riste, Chopaka: 2692 Chas. P. Ben
b»W, Omak; 2619 Beatrice de I-acy. River
ride: 2659 Harry R. Bryan. Omak' 2732
Herbert B. Washburn. Pateros: 2779 Jno
M. Colgrove. Molson; 2782 Jennie S. Fos
ter, Okanogan: 2821 Oeo. Wood Oka
oogjui; 2881 Blon B. Redding. Okanogan:
78« Chester F. Wilson, Okanogan' 2915
Annie C. McCllment. Omak; 2989 Paul
Cerdes. Chesaw: 3021 Frank O. Helm,
Psteros; 3033 Jessie Gallano. Brewster;
3178 Chas, H. Johnson. Okanogan 3353
John E. Shoemaker, Tonasket: 3351 W.n.
L Martin. Omak, 3385 Mildred MHche'!,
“Olson; 3425 Josie Jellison, Okaiog.in;
3(80 Melvin Wood, Okanogan: 3541 ' r hns
R. Pinkerton. Okanogan; 3551 Fred M.
Fuller, Omak: 3569 John Carrlgan, Oka
nogan; 3593 Maiinda Lingart, Omak: 3625
Tnos- Sapp. Molson: 3679 Ruth Holmes.
S!“s.w; 3685 Ralph Therrlault, Twlsp:
37U Emile Defflaml. Brewster: 3772 Emily
h. Chedzoy, Loomis: 3836 W. H, Mnnmmn
C. Brannon. Oka.tog in;
di . v , a M. Greene. Okanogan:
d fir "■ J rw *h. laiomis: 3919 Lawcencc
r. Money. Brewster; 1008 Edyhe Moone,
4085 Joseph A Sblmek. Ton a*» -
tSi "20 Chas. T. Carpenter. Okanogan:
i>. . DoyW F. Baugh, Okanogan: 1428
J- Smith, Omak; 1491 Gerai.l H.
“Refold. Omak: 4503 Oscar Ruthruft.
Blv* r «lde; 4528 Clarence Lauder. Okan-
JSPni (696 Moses St. Charles. Chopaka;
S’, " J.lngram. Loomis: 4667 Amasa
gnjtwood. Riverside: 4789 R. W. Starr,
taueros; 4861 Charley Harrell. Okanogan -
Andrew Hansen. Antwvne; 1886 Fd
tw?? T '.,, Rlpe - Omak; 1911 P. V. Plxon,
SMI A 9 Herbert Smith. Waucondn:
ra. ff a ‘han C. Williamson. Pateros; 6295
I* 1 * Paulsen Loe, Molson: 5300 Carl S.
***">. Tonasket.
Res« Wagoner, who drew' a home
i,.:*;. * n the Colville land lottery. Is In
tJ2l2f?V e a fiuandry. She has In
ina Joining her parents In California
lans days. If she remains to file on the
JJJJJ ? he w ill not have a chance to exer
r„l)ithts for six weeks according
-a*',,® official notification that she has
iUma! , an d young lady can hardlv
fufci would pay her to remain and
Inna lae ,Thances of securing a piece of
•and worth the trouble.
wI. h K e ..°r° vme contingent In the Second
* n fan try. on the border at
town* <2* J? hiding up the honor of the
tvanv Hldlnger. a private In Com
ln» the Second Washington, writ-
Th.iJS. the Wenatchee World of last
armv^ii# y ’i arnor,K °i nPr things relating to
to the south says: “I am proud
a ! Private Lawrence Dallam, of
a liHil?* been In the service onlv
all ftV»»^ over threp weeks, has outpointed
Privates In Company B In last
of r!LnJjl*!!‘ n K contest. We are all proud
utUam And there are others.
HOLD UP AT BRIDESVILLE
The boldest and most plctureaoue wes
eru hold up Hit has ever taken plac* fu
this upper country was that staircii .
Uridesvllle B. 0./übout iS Sat
nrday evening, when a lone, masked nigh
wayman stuck up about all the inhkb
c-lnltv ?n th« d t? V iH le Immediate vl
tlhltj In the Hridesvllle hotel, the total
number of victims being thirteen It was
IV’i a K K afnUent S row d of individuals its
Hie robber secured only about stuu. but be
jiiaoe up for Hie cash shortage bv earn -
ing off a large quantity of liquor' and iii
death 14 * “‘“ ur,n * ,he ••tidh-iice half to
v 1« a station on the Great
nrini'ii rl )' railroad. Just across the line in
Hi ittsii Columbia, and a tew miles easl
of Molson. It boasts of only a few build
ings. among them a two story hotel a
short distance south of the depot. About
Hie hour of 10 o’clock as a few people
were sitting in Hie office of Hie Brides
ville hotel, owned and conducted by Win.
Johns, who, by-the-way, was at one time
In former years a resident of Oroville a
heavy set Individual, about 5 feet X Inches
in height, with a bandana handkerchief
tied about the lower part of his face, and
armed with a sawed oft 30-30 rifle, walk
ed into the room, and at his Invitation
the occupants lined up in a bunch, look
ing and acting peaceful. At that hour the
bur room was closed and locked with a
spring lock. The hold and dangerous look
ing highwayman did not bother usking
for keys. He tired twice through in* dior
at the point whete the lock was located
and keys were unnecessary. To show Ids
victims that he was not averse to shoot
ing he fired a shot through the ceiling
This promiscus shooting did not tend to
encourage the crowd to action. They claw
ed the air as high as they could reach
and submitted gracefully to being search
ed and relieved of what cash they had on
their person.
The robber was perfectly cool, equal!
as fearless and took his time In carry
ing out his plans of dispulation. He seem
ed to have no apprehension of reststewvc
To add to the humor of the Incident sev
eral In the neighborhood seeing a light
In the bar began hankering for a night
cap, so stepped In to irrigate. They were
somewhat taken by surprise when they
gazed down the muzzle of u gun with a
desperate looking man at the other end
of the weapon, and made no protest when
ordered to fall Into line with the other
victims. Kven two or three persons who
had been over to attend the picture sho
ut Molson stopped at the hotel »or a drink
and remained to fatten the receipts of
the collector. One of these men had a roll
of *2OO in hills on his person. He slipped
the money into his trousers between Ids
underclothes and outer grm»ats. The
money subsequently worked down to the
floor, was found by Mrs. Johns and re
turned to the owner.
It Is alleged that the robber took a
gunny sack full of bottled goods and left
Hie house with the swag, but returned
again In a few minutes, holding the foil
until four o’clock In the morning, com
pelling his buffaloed guests to remain us
company. The robber vanished at 4
o'clock, and up to date Is still vanished.
So far as can be learned there is no clue
as to the robbers identity.
DEPLORABLE.
From he latest reports It is ev'dent Hint
the railroad trainmen have voted favor
ably upon a nationwide strike t , enforce
an eight hour work day for train iq-eta
tors. Without entering upon li e in.aits
of the ease every man must renliz" n it
sueli a strike would be deplorab'e. leading
up to the most appalling conss incn .
The effect upon the country would ne as
serious as a war. It would work on one 1 * 1 u s
burden and untold hardships upon mill mis
of Innocent people, who should not ho
made victims as a means to adjust tiff* r
onces between employers and employees.
The controversy should tie subn ited lor
arbitration to the national boa-d rollrord
commission, where botii sides to the dis
pute would have fair and impartial treat
ment. Indeed, the rights of employees
would receive more liberal treatment be
fore the commission than any tribunal to
Which the case could he submitted.
LIST OF TEACHERS.
The following list of teachers who will
have charge of the Oroville schools for
the term of 1916-17 has been handed in
by the clerk of the board of directors, E.
I<2. Parson:
F. B. Nance, superintendent.
I. R. Palmer, of Sunnyside, teacher or
manual training and athletic couch.
Pauline Davis, domestic science.
Cora T. Smith, history and English.
Rosetta Murray, languages ami physics.
Sue B. Sigrist, eighth grade.
Nora Henshaw. 6tTi and 7th grades.
Louise Pannan. 3r, 4th and st.t grades.
Gertrude Miller, 3d, 4th and sth grades.
Exie Miller
Florence Pickering primary.
The business men and residents of Oro
ville are deserving of special commenda
tion for their generous response L> every
appeal for aid for individuals in dlstiess.
These appeals are not infrequent, and
taken in Hie aggregate from year to vest
represent quite a large sum in ifadv
cash. It Is Hie western spirit of l ea l
and humanity towards mankind. Let It be
known that a worthy case for t w it e *'
ists in Hie community and theie is no
hesitation among the people when called
upon for help. That help is spontaneous
ungrudging, without reservation. It Is
a Source of pride to touch elbows'Villi
such people.
The editor returns thanks to Dome.''
P Wheeler for a liberal supply o. Hu
Missouri variety of blackberries, a
melons fruit that does well ui J tle.ds
prolllicly In this valley. Mr.
one of the best posted men in the vjliev
on fruit growing, and he states HaU thei .
is more profit in growing a choice ..u
of blackberries than any other kh; 1 or
(*m‘i 11 fruits There is no reason win !, i.
vahev under irrigation should not Hupjjly
much of the small fruits consume i in t
The ouallty is such as will .11 v\. * -
command sab* in the market against a 1
f omnetltion, and the soil and o*lm.it a
cspechilll°adapted to the grow-li and de
velopment of berries.
The valley has hud a touch of real sum
mer his week, possibly Hie tail end of the
torrid wave that has been cooking e
are
no'‘sunstrokes,“no '“^^“l" l f f etft "of f tUe“lVot
w'eather, n^no t intolerable roasting °f Hie
population. Hot ns the sun hecor i
s relief in the shade and one tan rein
sa'S asft
of the largest harvests that Ims oici
been cut in the county. t
3HSRSS?- - -
TOM CORKERY.
Thomas Porkery, of Spokane, fa.- heller
...111)1" as o'?" 1 Co, : lie r.v, one of toe nmn-
V'V! 8 ca;*' lUutes for rongreSH from iha
I llth illstrli't. spent Thursday It orovtlie
meeting up with his old acquaintances and
making many new fines. Mr. Corkery |m
* lo | ;i stranger in tlit? district as ne ran
t*»r congress as a progressive two years
HA '° »mti as evidence of his ropufdr'ty
)H»iu*«fl n; 000 voles, which was going some
• misnleiing that 1014 was an off year for
progressives. Mr. Corkery did nor wail for
Hu* disintegration of Hie progressive party
to return to his first love, but uado Id's
announcement months a pro. Considering
the voeman service he has done in the
past for the republican party lie Is where
lie belongs politically. He graduated In
politics in Ohio where the game is placed
nuire strenuously than In anv ~tato In the
I nion. unless it might be Ind’ana. st irt-
Ing In as a slump speaker when only 19
years of age. taking a verv prom’imnt
part in the organization of clubs and the
real work of tlie campaigns. M \ Oorkory
has lived in Spokane f en years, and has
taken a prominent part in public affairs
in that city. He was a member of ilie
legislaure in 1913 and was author of the
mother's pension law. He is an enthu
siastic supporter of Charles E. Hughes tor
president, believes in an immediate pro
tective platform, a non-partlzan expoit
tariff commission. universal military
training for defense and not f ')r territor
ial aggrandizement, free tolls ot Panama
for American ships, government owned
munition factories, child lnbo»* law and
rural credits. Mr. Corkary lias nude an
excellent impression during ids trip
through the country, and feels verv much
encourged by the reception he lias met
with.
--
"CHARLEY’S AUNT."
"Charley’s Aunt" the play tba* has
been written and talked about more than
any other comedy production ever laun
ched in the amusement field, will be pre
sented at the Orpheurn Tuesday. August
14. This piece Is full of extraordinary sui -
prises and clean fun. that keeps the aud
ience in expectant attitude and almost
continuous laughter It Is. In fact, a fare*
quite out of the ordinary, and furnishes
more thrills and tense moments than one
can relize as eminating from a single
evenings entertainment.
It is a clean play presented by an admi
rable company of comedians and come
diennes. and played with a rapidity that
threatens to break tlie speed limit, and it
Is tilled to tire brim with logical tricks
and swiftly moving surprises that keeps
the Interest of Hie auditor at concert
pitch throughout its enactment. In short.
It is a charming farce charmingly pre
sented. and as full of laughs as the small
boy Is of Ice cream after coming home
from a church festival.
The United Producing companv. who
arc presenting it. claim It will give better
satisfaction than "Within the Law” cr
anv other of their many attractions, and
tile cast Is the strongest yet offered under
(heir banner.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
Another of those charming and always
enjoyable Metro pictures is on at the Or
phetim for Saturday and Sunday evenings
entitled "Man ami His Soul." with Hat
powerful delineator of human character
Francis X Bushman In he lending role,
supported bv that queen of the screen.
Beverlv Payne. As Hie advance sheets
State: '.Man and Ills Soul" is a five act
wonder play In which sublime abegtiy
and supreme human drama form a mar
velous contrast. The situations throughout
the play are dramatic, and Intensely ex
citing and Interesting. This njmanHc and
vital human story is one of the host of
Hie rnanv strong attractions put on the
Orphoum during the past few weeks. This
particular feature Is one that shoull draw
a crowded house at every performance,
and movie patrons should not overlook n
good tiling.
SUNDAY SCHOOL PICNIC,
Tlie annual Methodist Sunday school
picnic will be held at Okanogan Smitii s
point next Wednesday. August 5 I hose
Picnics have always been well attended
ami everybody is invited to Like iher
lunch and go along, whether an attendant
of tlie Sunday school or not. It hail been
suggested Hint each one bring hi? own
plate, knife, fork and spoon, If possible,
hut these mgaissities will be provided lor
those who canpot bring them. Rigs will
be provided for Tree transportation.
CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDA TF,
Lloyd E. Gandv of Spokane me of the
several repuhliean candidates lor con
gress from the Fifth district to ho vo.ed
for at the September primary election,
was a visitor in Orovllle Wednesday for
a few hours. He was here for so short a
time that he was able to meet only a wry
tew residents of the place. He rogiottad
his Inability to get around, but owing to
an appointment that he had to till at S ■ >
kane on the 4th it was necessary for him
to leave at once for his home. I< riday
was the anniversary of the Are, and
the occasion was appropriately celebrated.
Mri Gandy was to take part I nihe pro
ceedlnffs. hence his anxiety to return to
th Mr Cl is a native born citizen of
Washington, and has spent most of his
life in Spokane, where nls father. Dr. J.
E Gandv. moved In 1881. Dr. 1 l,H ' v
■I prominent factor In the upbulldln-, of
Simkane and Is still a very prominent
resident* of that place. Lloyd E. Gandy,
has practiced law In Spokane for a num
ber of vears and has taken a very prom
inoiit aiul active part in civic and political
affairs He was a member of the leglsla
i,. mil and made an excellent ter
m'd In that bodv. Personally M-. Gjndy is
a clean upright, affable young gentleman
and a man of fur more than ordinary aim
«tv qhould he secure the nomination and
s ..scooent election he would represent
this district In congress with honor nna
credit.
OROVILLE, WAfIHIN ITON, AUGUST 4, 1916
Ihe committee In charge of raising the
funds for the new general hospital met
i uesday evening to report progress. It
waa found that $3,000 had been raided for
the object In view, but It was decided that
it would be inexpedient to commence
building unless $4,000 was pledged. The
committee turned out Wednesday and
made a whirwlnd canvass with the result
that another SI,OOO was raised in a single
day. Now what do you think of mat?
£ os small as Oroville p. edging
$4,000 h. cash for a public Improvement?
It not only shows generous liberality at
a Ume when business was never more
quiet, and also that everybody appreciates
the imporance of a general hospital at this
place. Of course a modern building such
ns will be constructed will require more
money than $4,000, but so well satisiled is
the committee that the balance will be
contributed that It is planned to com
mence building at once. If there are any
in the community who have not taken
stock let them come forward and sign up
at once. Every little helps. Take one
share If you cannot afford to take more.
Help push along one of the most impor
tant projects that has ever been started
for the town.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Sunday school at 10 n m. Be right on
time and Join in he rousing song service.
If you arc feeling young, you will want to
Join In this song service; If von are ieel-
Ing old. It Is a sure sign you need to loin
in this singing. Anyhow come.
Pfeaching at 11 o’clock. Subject of ser
mon* ‘ The Secret of Entering Life."
Special music, Haydn quartette
We give you a hearty invitation to all
our Services. Come and bring vour friends.
A. W. B6ND. Pastor.
—
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m.
service at 11 a. in. No Bp worth League
service. Preaching service at 8 p n. Ser
mon by the pastor both mqrnlng end even
ing. Everybody welcome, everybody in
vited: Everybody come. Thj homelike
chujfch and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITJ3, Pastor.
EPISCOPAL SERVICES.
Rev. Win. Leacher will conduct services
at the usual hour In the Episcopal church
next Sunday. Holy communion will bo ob
served. All are cordially invited to attend.
LYRIC NEWS NOTES
For Saturday and Sunday evenings
Jesse L, Lasky presents the inter >atlon.'tl
famous star, Fannie Ward, in "The
Client,” a modern drama, offerelng Miss
Ward splendid opportunities not only for
comedy but for drama. Miss Ward appears
as Edith Hardy, whose husband is a man
of large business affairs. She takes up
charity work and has ambitions socially.
She has a weakness for line clothes, and
as treasurer of a charity fund appropri
ates money in her charge to sitbv her
vanity. This peculation leads up to a lot
of ttoiihle for the ladv, but all ends imp
plH
For next Wednesday and Thursday
evenings the Eyrie will present "The Re
form Candidate," one of the most fetch
ing productions In the held of (Urns. Mac
lyn Arbuckle takes the leading part in
this stirring political romance. The ad
vance notices of the play says: "As ‘Boss'
Hoke, an ironshod politician In "The Re
form Candidate," Maclyn Arbuckie. Is de
parting from his usual comedy vein Tne
departure is welcome. however, for ho
gives a study of ruggedness, power and
vet tenderness withal that bids fair to
make a profound Impression. His narrow
ed eyes, his steel Jaws, his whole grim
repression as his enemy, Frank Qiandell.
offers the bribe, and hen his complete
change to brusque. half-embarrassed
chivalry In the dramatic mortgage scene
with Mrs. Grandell. an old devotion of the
politician s, are a startling exhibition of
line acting.
Fannie Ward, the star, will In this pi- -
ture take her place as one o' the few
great emotional actresses on the screen.
We doubt If her remarkable perfjtmanat
in “The Cheat, ' has ever been surpassed.
Site runs the gamut of emotions, and In
the most thrilling, dramatic scenes so
sways her audience that she is applauded
again and again.
Marguerite Clark’s exquisite daintiness
in the role of "Peggy” In the fed tun) of
Mice and Men," which will soon appear
at the Lyric, Is a fortunate selection to
follow Immediately upon her appearance
as the sturdy little boy In "The Prince
and the Pauper." It affords her a superb
opportunity for studying the versatility
of the star who changes from hoy to a
charming little girl with all the ease and
grace of which human Ingenuity Is capa
idc. It Is this remarkable display of ver
satility on the part of Miss Clark that has
made her so tremendously popular eveiy
where that Paramount pictures are exhib
ited.
A sudden demand for space at a lat*
hour by a live advertiser has cut down
Ibe usual amount of reading matter this
week. However, there was very little go
ing on the way of news, as people are
using autos more discreetly and there is
no Indication of blood on the moon to
start the boys rough housing.
Jas. E. Ford reports that there was a
very heavy fall of rain and hall in the hill
country southeast of Orovllle Thursday
last The higher peaks were actually cov
ered with hall. So far as can be learned
there was not a great deal of damage, al
though some Injury to growing grain must
have resulted from such a visitation.
Herbert Curtis was a passenger on the
south bound train Thursday morning
headed for Wenatchee. He was off for a
trip of three or four days. Mr. Curtis ts
the discoverer of the tungsten mine, in the
Hilt country west of Loomis, which Is now
being steadily worked and which is pay
ing the operators handsomely Mr. Curtis
hung on to the property for a good many
years, and has fairly earned all that he
will get out of It. and his friends trust
that what he gets out of It will be a
large lump of cash.
As will be seen under the appropriate
head of announcements for office, Frank
ft. Atkins, of Okanogan, has Hied hs an
nouncement of candidate for the office of
countv clerk on the republican ticket. Mr.
\ikins Is a worthy and capable gentleman
and should he secure the nomination at
the primaries, and subsequently the elec
tion, the office of county clerk would be
In most excellent hands. With (wo excep
tionally capable candidates In the field
for the republican nomination for this of
llcc It Is clearly settled In advance that
whichever secures the position, and one
of them will, the county clerkship will be
well taken care of.
Messrs. Samson. McMahan, Stoltz and
I loose, who left last week for an outing
of a few days on I-ake Chelan, returned
home Monday evening. having had the
time of their lives, enjoying every minute
of the journey and the stay at the lake.
Fishing? Why. their fish stories make one
feel like grabbing a pole and line and
striking out afoot for the lake. They
caught the limit allowed by law, and
wept because the limit was so small
In comparison with the appetite of the
tish for halt. It was one grand round of
pleasure for busy men who rarely are able
to get out of town on pleasure bent, and
wishing others to share the fruits of their
merrv toll when they returned they dis
tributed liberal quantities of their catch
among acquaintances.
OPEN HANDED BUNCH.
PURE SEED.
The Ukanogaa independent says that
"seed growing lor the market is being
indulged in by an Oroville linn and some
local people who tried out the oroville
product this spring report excellent re
sults. in his garden i>. L*. Smitn plan leu
Burpee s seeds along side oi those of the
Okanogan valley product and lind mat
me latter are superior. This is one oi
the possibilities of agriculture in the val
ley that is worthy of greater attention
than it has received in tne past."
Here is a practical test of Oroville
grown seed that bears out the statement
made by C. W. Hardeman, the seed ex
pert, that seed grown in this valley is
superior to that grown in any other part
of the country. A number oi farmers in
this neighborhood are turning their at
tention to seed growing inis year, and it
is believed that seed growing will become
an important industry in this 4 locality
within the next few years.
Among the lucky ones in the Colville
land drawing was Al. M. Cancan, oi
Boomis. Mr. Carreau has had hard lines
of late years, and we trust lie will secure
a tract that will make him comfortable.
Section No. 1 in the land drawing fell
to George Lennon, of Spokane, and there
were quite a collection of people in this
place who went to the trouble to lile who
experienced the pangs of disappointment
C. H. Baldwin, Miss Grace McDaniel
and Boy McDaniel prougtit W. ii. Mc-
Daniel over from Booinis lust Friday
morning in time for him to lake the train
to Spokane, where he was going on busi
ness.
Bay Rayburn and Miss Mono Burkett
were married at Princeton Monday. Both
of the young people are well Known in
Oroville, where the groom lias resided for
a number of years and their friends and
acquaintances will join in wishing Hu m
a long and happy married life
Acting Marshal Wentworth, assisted by
Town Clerk Hoose towed a stranger nam
ed Harris to the town ball Tuesday morn
ing, where Judge Ferguson applied a $Lu
plaster to counteract the eiiect of Lite
whisky the prisoner was carrying. The
booze Was obtained at Fairvlew.
Some one broke into a freight car at
the depot lost Friday night, but as Cal
Tilley could not find any goods missing
after checking over the bills-of-lading u
was evidently the car breaker was bent
only upon getting a night s lodging, but
taking iong chances in getting it.
Fred H. Finsen, formerly u resident of
the valley near this place, is another mod
el subscriber, anions numerous others, lie
is now engaged In business at Cornet,
Washington, on tire east coast, and lie ul
was remits for his paper Just about the
date of the expiration of ids time.
A. J. Jackson of Orovllle, the well known
cuttle buyer, shipped two curs from here
last evening. There is quite a quantity of
beef cattle in this vicinity which are in
good condition, and Mr. Jackson intends
coming back for another car or more.—
Curlew items in Republic Journal.
In the Friday drawing for Colville reser
vation lands the following residents of
Oroville stood for winners; No. 3U33 Chas,
C. Tilley; No. 2553 Samuel K. Case; No.
2553 Heevie J. Frank; No. 355s Win. if.
Brown; No. 3570 Edward J. Kloppenburg
No. 3400 Wm. E. Payne; No. 3534 Janies
H. Silverthorn; No. 3033 Isabel Eide; No.
3780 Eeo. Frolander.
Out of the 1050 numbers drawn in the
Colville land distribution lottery, at Spo
kane Thursday last, Urovllle did nut fair
so badly, if. Maske drew No. 30; Roy M.
Vincent No. 150; Otto E. Rhemke No. 451;
Geo. W. Rarteil No. 574; Samuel E. Min
nick No. 1018; Bess Wagoner, a sister
of he wife of Bob Prentice, No. 1047, Dick
Schweers No, 1407.
A party consisting of Fred Hart, Harry
Hamisch E. E I’hilllps, Frank I'iki... -
liatn, John Desmond, Chas. 1 .>,vn. Jr,
Eew .Prentice, Rich riaupi and U. E. L‘i en
tice drove over to Toats comet irooit .Sul
uiday evening utai spent Bund.w fishing
in Toats coulee and Slnlahekia crocks.
The boys returned Sunday oveuinj with
SCO elegant trout, which is some catch
Among the names of the Hist luu home
steads drawn in the Colville reservation
lands by lottery, which stared In Spokane
last Thursday, D. Maske of Orovllle, drew
selection No. 29, and Miss Colo Dodson,
formerly teacher in the Orovllle public
schools, drew selection No. 92. Congratula
tions are extended to both the lucky win
ners. Now let's see It they get out and
farm the land they drew.
An ore car belonging to John Casteshu
was recently stolen from a tunnel on land
adjoining E. W. Mallory's desert claim,
on Nine-mile creek. The party who took
the car is known and If it is not returned
within the next ten days he will be prose
cuted. A word to he wise should be suffi
cient, and if the guilty person wants to
save a lot of misery he will at once re
turn that car to the place from which he
took It.
Miss Edna Krause, daughter of those
pioneers, Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Krause, was
married at Okanogan Wednesday to Will
ard Sheppard. The young people will
make their home on Ellemeham mountain
The bride has grown up from intancy in
the Ellemeham district and is a bright
and interesting young lady with a large
circle of friends who wish her and her
husband all kinds of happiness and pros
perity.
D. Maske who held No. 39 In the Colville
land drawing, is one of the popular mem
bers of the Immigration force of officials
posted In Orovllle. A homestead is a kind
of an elephant on his hands in case he
should be compelled to give up his posi
tion in order to comply with the law as
regards setlement and cultivation. He
will look over the reservation, and If it
appears to be worth while he may elect
to take the land.
Mrs. W. R. Rash has been in town for
a fortnight visiting with her daughter,
Mrs. F. A. Beale. For a number of years
the Rashs lived on their ranch Just be
yond the big railroad trustle. east of town,
but went to California four years ago
and are living at Empire. It is said that
the family will return to the home place
near Orovllle In the near future, and they
have a great many friends here who will
welcome them back.
What's the matter with that general
hospital for which the public has contri
buted quite generously? It Is time that
work should be commenced. If there are
any citizens who have not already con
tributed their mite let them come for
ward and do so at once. It Is an Institu
tion that the town cannot get along very
well without, and the sooner it Is con
structed and in running order the better
It will he for everybody.
Fishing in Sinlahek'n. Touts Ooula. Sal
mon creeks and other mountain streams
has never been better than this summer.
Fishing parties from this place have whip
ped all the streams mentioned, and In
every case the catches have been excep
tionally large. Trout take the hook eag
erly, and some very large specimens have
been taken. One would think from the
number of fish taken that the supply
would soon be exhausted.
Private Jerry Buber, one -if the re
cruits from Orovllle serving <n the Sec
ond regiment. Washington militia. " rites
that he Is feeling fine and stands the hot
weather well. He says that he will re
turn north with the regiment when dis
charged from service, stay here for a week
or two, but Intends hiking back to Calex
ico Just for the purpose of crossing Ihe
border, a prlvlllge that the rules of the
authorities will not permit at the pres
ent time.
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO STATE
CONSTITUTION.
To be voted on November 7, is*ld.
"An amendment of section 1, article VI
of the slate constitution, relating to the
qualification of voters.”
STATE OK WASHINGTON,
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
OF STATE.
To whom it may concern: In obedlanc*
to an act of the legislature, allowed to be
come operative without the upprov.il of
the governor, entitled as follows. "An act
providing for the amendment of section
1 of article VI of the constitution of the
State of Washington, relating to the qual
ideation of voters,” there is hereby pub
lished for tlie consideration of the vot
ers of the State of Wihi'ngton tin; lol
lowing proposed amend •rt ; lu ihe ».n
stitution of said state:
CHAPTER 127.
(S. S. B. 147)
Aii act providing for **ie amendment of
section 1 article VI of the con dilution
of tlie State of Washington, i» laHnp to
the qualification of voters.
He it enacted by tlie legislature of the
Slate of Washington:
Section 1. That at the general election
to be held in this state on tlie Tuesday
next succeeding the iirst Monday in No
vember, 1916, there shall be suomlUed to
lhe qualified electors of the state, for their
adoption and approval or rejection. an
amendment to section I of article VI of
tiie Consultation of tlie State of Washing
ton. so that the same shall when amended
read as follows:
ARTICLE VI.
Section 1. All persons of tlie age of I’l
years or over possessing tlie following
qualifications, shall be entitled to vole at
all elections; They shall be citizens of the
United States; they shall have lived in
the state one year and in the county nine
ly days, and in the ciy, town, ward or
precinct thirty days Immediately preced
ing the election at which they offer to
vote; they shall be able to read and -peak
the English language: Provided, that no
person shall be qualilied or entitled to
vote in respect to or upon any question or
proposition to incur or not to incur any
debt or obligation, or to borrow money or
issue any bond or obligation, or to ratify
or validate any debt, bond or obligation,
or to authorize the purchase, sale, mor
tgage or pledge of properly, revenue or
income by or of the state, or municipal
corporation, city, town or district, unless
in addition to the qualifications above
prescribed he or she shall at the date of
ids or her registration be tlie seperate
owner of, or as husband or wife have
community title in property upon :no iox
roll of the municipal corporation or lax
ing district in which such question or
proposition Is to be voted upon, and upon
which properly a tax lias been paid, or
shall he payable, during the calandar year
in which such question or proposition is to
be voted upon. No person shall he denied
the elective franchise on account of sex,
nor shall this amendment affect the rlgnt
of franchise of any person who is now a
qualilied elector of this state except in re
spect to questions or propositions men
tioned in the foregoing proviso. Indians
not t«\ed shall never be allowed the elec
tive franchise. The legislative authorities
shall enact laws defining the manner of
ascertaining the qualifications of voters as
to their ability to read and speak the
English language, providing for the regis
tration of voters generally and as prop
erty owners, and providing for punish
ment of persons voting or registering in
violation of the provision of this section.
Sec. 2. The secretary of state shall
cause tlie amendment proposed in section
1 of this act to be published for three
months next preceding said election In
some weekly newspaper in every county
where a newspper is published through
out the state.
Passed the Senate February 27, 191 f».
Passed the House March 8, 1915.
NOTE BY SECRETARY OF STATE.
The above act filed In the office of the
Secretary of State March 17, 11115, and al
lowed to become operative wlbout the
approve I of the governor.
1 M. HOWELL.
Sec. *iary of State
There shall be printed on all ba.lots
provided for the said election the words.
“For tlie proposed amendemuut to sec
tion 1 of arlcle VI of the cons'U’llon re
lating to the qualification of voters.”
“Against the proposed amendment to
section 1 of article VI of the constitution
relating (o the qualification of votens.”
Tn testimony w , i~rejt' I have hereunto
set my hand and affixjd the seal of the
Slate of Washington.
Pone at Oiyarna thlr Ist dav o* Inly,
HUG.
(Seal.) T. M. HOWELL.
Secretary of State.
First publication August 4. 1913. 1 ast
publication. October 27, 1916.
NOTICE.
In the Superior Cour of the Stale of
Washington, in and for the County of
Okanogan.
in the matter of the petition of the board
or directors of the West Okanogan
Valley Irrigation District, organized
under the laws of the State of Wash
ington. for the examination, approval,
and confirmation of the proceedings
had on the part of said district and its
officers for in and about the Issue and
sale of additional bonds of said dls
rlct.
NOTICE.
Notice is hereby given that the board
of directors of the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation District, an Irrigation district
organized and existing under and by vir
ile of tlie laws of the State of Washing
ton. situated in Okanogan county in said
state, has tiled in the above entitled court
and In the above entiled proceedings a
petition piaying that all the proceedings
had by said district and its board of di
rectors and other district officials pro
viding for and authorizing the issue and
sale of additional bonds of said district
in the amount of fifty thousand ($30,000,001
dollars may be Judicially examined, ap
proved and confirmed.
Notice is hereby furher given that
Tuesday, the 22nd day of August. 1916. at
the hour of 10 o’clock a. m. In the fore
noon of said day at the court room of the
above entitled superior court at the tow*
of Okanogan, Okanogan county. Wash*
ingon, has been fixed by order of said
court at the time and place for the hear
ing on said petition and any person in
terested in the proceedings had for. In
and about tlie Issue, and sale of said addi
tional district bonds in the sum of
$30,000.00 as above mentioned, or in any
of the proceedings mentioned in the said
petition, may. on or before the time fixed
for hearing of said petition, demur to or
answer said petition, and such proceeding
thereupon and thereafter shall be had in
the above entitled matter ns provided by
la w.
Witness my hand and the seal of said
court this 27th day of July. 1916.
MARY E. McCMJRE
Clerk of the above entitled court.
(SEAL.)
First publication August 1. 1916.
BIDS FOR FUEL.
The board of directors of School Dis
trict No. 17 will receive bids for furnish
ing the school district with F>o cords of
4 foot wood. 13 cords of 16 Inch wood and
20 tons of coal. Rids to be opened August
19. 1916. The board reserves the r*vht
to reject any or all bids. Bids should be
submitted In sealed envelopes marked
“Bids for Fuel.” For further pariculars
inquire of E. R. PARSON. Clerk
$1.60 PER YEAR
