BjLADEo
Volume 27, Number 13
LACLEDE, M1SS0UBI, FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1910
$1.C0 Per Year in Advance
TOWN AND COUNTRY
About Local People and Events and
. Other Matters of Interest ,
Honey for sale by G. W. Estes.
- Dr. and Mrs. T. D. Fawcette are
here from Kansas City visiting
"relatives;
Regular meeting of the Royal
Neighbor camp on Friday after
noon of this week.
. v. Joy Riders to Jail
Elmer Hastings and Bud Webb,
who have been stoDDinar with
Webb's grandfather near the old
water mill southwest of Laclede,
are in jail at binneus charged with
stealing Ed. Powell's service car
from the parking in Brookfield last
Friday night. Mr, Powell had
taken some passengers" from Liu
neus to Brookfield and when ready
to return home discovered his car
had been stolen. After an all
night chase covering all the north
HON. WALTER S. DICKEY
Hay to put up on shares, one east part of the county the car was
mile west of Forker. Apply at
once. A. E. Ransom.
A Reliable gasoline range, two
cook burners and one for oven, for
sale by Mrs. A. V. Moore.
A girl baby was born to Mr. and
Mrs. Win. Ehrieh at their home
southeast of town last Saturday.
found near Purdin the next morn
ing, .andvthe two men were arrested
as they were making their way
back to Laclede on foot. They
have confessed and will answer to
the charge at the next term of the
circuit court. Hastings and Webb
recently came here from Iowa and
have been mittint? in most of their
Kobert JN. and Everett Dye nave time fishini, seIIin- their catch in
moved to Brookneia wnere tney are fdede.
working in the Burlington shops.
Rev. W, R. Shane was here
Thursday from Kansas City for a
short visit with his sister, Mrs.
Wra. Burnett.
The American Reading Circle
will meet with Mrs. M. P. Benson
next Tuesday evening, August 8,
at the usual hour.
Oats have been a profitable crop
here this season some fields yield
ing as much as 55 bushels per
acre. They are selling at 35 and
40 cents.
Cottage prayer meeting next
Tuesday 9:30 a. m. at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Carothers. R.
L. Stratton, leader. Everyone
come.
Uncle Joe Mathiasch is visiting
his daughter and family at Slater,
having gone there with his son
Special Trains to Brookfield Fair
The Brookfield fair will be held
next week, begiuning on Tuesday
and ending Friday. As usual the
big day will be Thursday, August
10th, when the Burlington will run
special trains from Unionville and
intermediate points on the north
and from Carrollton and intermedi
ate points on the south. The
train from the north will leave La
clede for Brookfield at 9:10 a. m.
and the one from the south at 9:30
a. m. giving people from here two
chances to get to the fair early in
the day.- Returning the trains will
leave Brookfield at 8:00 and
8:20 p, m.
Death of Mrs. Brockman
Mrs. Dorothea Louisa Brock-
man, motner ot Unns iJrockraan or
Joseph and family who are here on Laclede, died at her home six
visit trom Indiana in tneir car. miies south 0f Brookfield July 26,
J. B. Carothers and his car- at the age of 79 years, 1 month
penter gang, II. M. Anderson, L. and 7 days. She was born in
B. Haley and Paul Carothers, are Frahn, Germany, June 19, 1837,
rebuilding a large residence in was married to Christian Brock
Brookfield. motoring back and
forth to work.
A. M. Walker, who has been a
great lover of horses and has raised
and owned many fine specimens.
has at last taken to motoring and
man in 1862, and with her husband
came to America in 1873. The
children, who mourn the loss of a
kind and affectionate mother, are
Mrs. Minnie Scherer and Wm
Brockman, living on faims ad
I f
V ' '
Nominated for United States Senator Tuesday
ON LOCAL SUBJECTS
Local Items and Interesting Bits of
News of AH Sorts
Last Tuesday afternoon a twenty
dollar bill and a five dollar bill
were lost on the walk between the
Benson bank and the Lomax dry
goods store. Finder will be liber
ally rewarded by notifying this
office.
F. R. Power was in Kansas City
ast Tuesday trying to hurry up a
car load of Ford cars he had order-
mourn her untimely demise.
While Brooks Simpson was in
the act of taking a revolver from
the cash drawer in the Simpson's
confectionery store Wednesday
afternoon it was accidently dis
charged, " the ball striking his
brother Ransom, who was standing
near, on the back of his left hand.
mi. in i i i -
xne can entered aoout nalt way
between the thumb and index
finger joint and ranged toward the
front of the hand. Dr. Caldwell
dressed the wound but the ball has
not vet been removed. It was in
deed a close call for a more serious
wound as his hand is thought to
have been the means of preventing
PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS
ed. The price of Fords dropped the ball from entering the atfdomen
is now often seen driving a new joining the old home place, Chris
car he purchased a few days ago,
Mrs. F. W. Burke and two little
sons and her mother, Mrs. Maxey,
leave Thursday night for Colorado.
They will be joined at Bou-lder by
Mrs. John Lomax of San Benito,
Texas, and will . spend a month
visiting in that state.
Mark H. Lomax who has been in
Columbia for several months will
spend the greater part of August
at his home here and will resume
his cleaning and pressing business
as will be noticed by his advertise
ment in this paper.
Regular meeting of Phil Kearny
tian Brockman, of Laclede, Mis
souri, and John and Miss Dora
Brockman, who lived with their
mother.
Missionary Meeting
On account of the excessive heat
the Womens Foreign Missionary
Society will hold their meeting in
the M. E. church, where electric
fans will make all comfortable,' on
Wednesday, August 9, at 2:30,
For this meeting the following
program has been arranged :
Jubilee hymn, by society; open
ing exercises by the president, Mrs.
Bigger, followed by sentence
post at headquarters on Saturday prayer; entertainment by Little
afternoon of this weefe. -As many Light Bearers: song, Come Out
as possible should attend this aD(j Help Us," by society; W. F.
meeting as arrangements are to te m. g. work by Miss Vollmer of
made to select delegates to the Illinois; cornet solo, Elfreida
national encampment to be held in Duek'er; college life, social and
Kansas City this fall. - religious advantages, Miss Lillian
R. H. Simpson, who recently Sinsentaffar; sextette, "Make Me
bought the Longacre confectionery, a Worker for Jesus," Vivia Cay
is sparing neither pains or expense wood, Virginia Dye, Hazel Rankin,
to give his customers the very best Marcedes Mouser, Catherine Moore,
service possible. He has bad in- Ruoy Walker; treasurer's report,
stalled two large ceiling fans that Mrs. J. L. Burke; reading, "A
make his place cool and comfort- Mite Box on Wooden Legs;" box
able at all times and being a. opening with "experience ttecora-
pleasant and accommodating young paniment," How I Filled (or
man with thorough understanding didn't fill) my mite box;" piano
of the business is having -a large lolo, Harold Standly; reading,
trade. "The One Woman."
$80.00 August 1st and the demand
is greater than the supply. The
touring car now sells at $382.50
delivered.
There will be preaching services
Primary Results
In the primary election Tuesday
Dickey carried Linn couuty by
497 for United States senator;
at the Christian church next Sun-1 Swanger for governor carried it
day. This change from the regu- 446; Anderson for sheriff, received
lar appointment has been made for a majority of 38 over Trippeer.
this month only, on account of the I On the democratic side Sports
chautauqua coming on the 3rd mau was nomited sheriff, Singleton
Sunday. Every one cordially in- forjudge of the western district,
vited to these services. rs- Hayes for treasurer. For
A number from Laclede are coaSress Rueker carried the county
planning on camping at the Mead-! over Lozier br 1'2, and the dis
ville Chautauqua. This is the , trict b-v less than 1.000.
bieeest annual event in the county ! ijaiB returns irom over tne state
and alwavs attracts a Iarse attend- would indieate that Jnd&e Lamm
ance because of the high class en-jhadbeen nominated for governor
tertainment it affords. There is over J- Swanger by only a few
nothing better than the Meadville : thousand- Gardner was nominated
tor governor on the ' democratic
chautauqua.
On last Thursday evening Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Patrick delightfully
entertained a number of young
folks in honor of their niece, Miss
Alyce Wilkins of Columbus, Ohio.
The evening was spent in games
and music after which a little
uncheon was served. At a late
hour the guests departed declaring
hey had spent a most pleasant
evening.
The sympathy of the entire coun
ty goes out to Mr. E. J. Conger,
editor of the Bulletin, because of
the loss of his beloved wife who !
passed away at their home in Lin
eus last Monday morning, at the
age of 47 years, and 11 days. She'
has been ill from heart weakness
for some time. Besides the hus
band she leaves a daughter
ticket.
The Rest Room
How do strangers visiting La
clede like the Rest Room? Follow
ing are some of the remarks made
by people in different vocations
who have had occasion to use it:
"This is fine for any place and a
great credit to so small a town."
Brief Mention of Those Who Come
and Go Daring the Week
Furnished rooms for rent.
Brown Hotel.
E. D. Jamison spent Sunday
with relatives at Hamilton,
Miss Ellen Garside is visiting
friends in Meadville this week.
J. B. Jones and family visited
over Sunday with E. K. Welsh and
family on route one.
Miss Volrner of Cole City, III.,
is visiting her sister, Mrs. II . C;
Stockwell on route one.
Mrs. E. J. Cocker of Linnena
visited Mrs. A. J. Caywood and
family Tuesday afternoon.
Rev. II. J. Dueker is at Moberly
this week attending district con
ference of the M. E. church.
Rev. and Mrs. Whitehouse and
baby of Mendon have been guests
of Judge and Mrs. O. F. Libby
the past week.
Mrs. Anna Dail of Mountain
Park, Okla., known in Laclede as
Miss Anna Collins, is here visiting
relatives and friends.
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Layman of
Trenton are visiting friends here
this week. Mrs. Layman is known
n Laclede as Miss Helen Van
Valkenburg.
Mrs. H. J. Brendel and two
children are here visiting her par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Jones.
Mr. and Mrs. Brendel are moving
nom St. Joseph to Omaha.
Attorney B. E. Bigger of Hanni
bal on a business trip to Chilli
cothe, stopped off here and spent
Saturday with his parents, At
torney and Mrs. C. C. Bigger.
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Weatherly
arrived from Walker, S. Dak.,
Tuesday in their Chalmers Six to
visit the former's parents, Mr. and
Mrs. J. S. Weatherly south of
town.
George Haight left Sunday for
Indianapolis, Ind., to accept a
position with the American Tele- "
graph and Telephone Company,
the same company he was with
while in Iowa and Minnesota a few
years ago.
Mrs. C. W. Bigger returning to
her home at Carthage from attend
ing an international Sunday school
training school at Lake Genevia,
Wis., stopped off here this week
for a visit with relatives, guest of
Mrs. C. C. Bigger and Mis. A. J.
Caywood.
Miss Madge Kent succeeded in
passing the test Wednesday in the
Chillicothe Business College for
entering the Office Training De
partment. In about a month's
time she will have her course com
pleted and be ready for employ
ment. The Blade family enjoyed
haviug Mr. and Mrs. S. N. Rose-
berry of Bucklin, Mr. and Mrs.
Ray Bigger and baby Harold, of
Marceline, and Mrs. C. W. Bigger
of Carthage, spend last Sunday
with them. They came in Mr.
I am surprised to find such a
place. I shall be glad to stop here. Roseberry's new Oakland Six.
as I pass through." ' j Mrs. A. B. Henderson leftTues-
' I had no idea that this small day for Kansas City taking her
town contained any such place." little one year old son to the hos-
"I have been all over 16 states pital there for treatment following
of the uuion and have never come an operation he underwent a few
across anything like the Rest weeks ago when a defective kidney
" Room." j was removed. He is getting along
j "I like this Rest Room so well quite'well but will need the at
that I prefer to do my waiting here tention of the specialist for some
to and take a later train oat of town." time yd.
