HE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 120.
HARHE, VEKMOXT. FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 1916.
PRICK, OXE CEXT,
rm
1
,1
STORM FLEURY
BUT ARE FORCED
PART WAY OUT
decision not to interfere with the sen
tehee.
Ho was convicted find punished for
French Launched Tremcn
dous Attack on Two Sides ZVlmZ
of Town, 3 Miles North of
Verdun, and Won Great
Victory, Besides Captur
ing Hundreds of Germans
GERMANS FURIOUSLY
COUNTER-ATTACKED
In Three Days' Time French
Have Won Back Territory
Which It Took the Ger
mans Weeks to Win, and
Battle Is Now Continuing
with Great Intensity
ot Germany.
After declaring t hut Casement had or
gunized German assistance for the Irish
reliellion. the statement continues:
"Conclusive evidence has come into
the hands of the government since tho
trial that he had entered into an agree
ment with the German government which
explicitly provided that the brigade
which ho was trying to raise among
Irish soldier held as prisoners might be
employed in Egypt against the British
crown, those among the J ri-h soldiers
who resisted were subjected to treat
ment of exceptional cruelty by the Ger
mans. Some of them since have been
exchanged as invalids ami have died in
this country, regarding Casement as
their murderer."
MEXICAN
MEDIATORS
Have Been Named to Under
take Settlement of the
Border Differences
NOTE DELIVERED TO
STATE DEPARTMENT
CLING TO CANOE TWO HOURS.
Two Young Men Nearly Exhausted When
Rescued in Lake Champlain.
Turlington, Aug. 4. George J. Moody
of Chicago 111., and Charles II. Falkner
of Kast Orange, X. J., who are making
a canoe trip from New York through
lake Champhiin, clung to their canoe for
two hours yesterday morning, after it
had capsized in a heavy sea, about a
mile from the shore of Shelbiirnn farms
before they were rescued by If. A. Kane
an employe of the Webb estate. The
young men, who were very nearly ex
hausted, were attended by Dr. (.'. A
Tease of this city, who was at Shelburne
farms at the time of the accident, and
after being cared for at Mr. Kane's reiki
deuce, were taken to Dr. Webb's home.
Thev completely recovered from all ill
effects of the mishap before evening.
In Reply to the Last Ameri- r,rt,!na for th" ennM'1' pctioal;
J i ly all of their equipment was strapped
can Communication to De
Facto Government
l
into the canoe, so that the only articles
lost were two pairs of shoes and a cap
The travelers, who are both very voting
men, left -New yorit on July S and jour
neved by easy stages up the Hudson
river and through Luke George, camping
Washington. D. C. Aug. 4. The Mcxi- each night on the shore. They spent
can ambassador. Arredotido. has delivered Wednesday night encamped near Cellar
a note to the state department replying Beach and yesterday morning, despite a
to tho lat American communication to strong wind, embarked for Burlington,
tho dc facto government, announcing the They had hoisted sail to aid their
ppointment of the three Mexican mem- progress ana wnen near .hcnurne tarms,
bers of the joint commission to under- a sudden gust of wind caused the frail
J n conclusion the statement points out take the settlement of the border dif- craft to capsize and the canoeists found
that the suggestion, which has been "con- f,.lt.m.es themselves suddenly struggling in a high
clusively disproved," that Casement went The note announces the appointment Itli men are expert swimmers but
to Ireland to try to stop the rising was 0f three commissioners, with instructions deemed it better to ejing to their over-
not raised at the trial, nor was the plea to devote their attention preferably toltumed canoe than to attempt to swim
of insanity.
WELL HANDLED BY COX.
Berlin, Aug. 4. The Tillage of Fleury
was regained by the Germans this morn
ing, it was officially announced by army
headquarters.
Paris, Aug. 4. Attacking simultane
ously from the northwest and from the
southeast, French troops yesterday j
stormed the village of Fleury, three
miles north of Verdun, and captured sev
eral hundred Germans.
In the evening, the Germans launched
a furious counter attack. After several
attempts, they succeeded in getting a
footing in the southern part of the vil
lage. The French to-day continue to
bold the northern section ot the place.
Heavy fighting is still in progress.
An official statement says that at one
period of the fighting during the night,
the French entered the Thiaumont earth
works, but withdrew, owing to the in
tensity of the German bombardment. All
attempts to drive the French from their
station southeast of Fleury were frus
trated. French positions at Vacherau
ville also were attacked during the night.
The French declare the Germans were
thrown back, with severe loss.
The recapture by the French of Fleury,
which had been held by the Germans for
more than a month, caused great elation
in France. Military observers say it
marks an epoch in the six months' battle
for the fortress of erdnn. 1 he Germans
appear to-be less-capable of operations
on their old overwhelming scale. Mili
tary men think the initiative is about
to pass to the French.
In their three days' offensive, the
French regained all the ground that the
Germans had taken several weeks to
conquer. They, took all the positions for
a depth of about a mile from the slopes
of Souville fort to the approaches of
hill 320, as well as in the woods east
of Vacherauville and the Vignea ra
vine, the frencn also installed mem
6elves in positions southeast ond south
west of Thiaumont woods.
Billy Dale Won $2,000 Purse at Kalamazoo.
Kalamazoo, Mich., Aug. 4. Billy Dale,
beautifully handled by Walter Cox, yes
terday afternoon won -the JUirdick hotel
purse of .$2,000 for 2:00 pacers in
straight heats. The Cox horse was fa
vorite in the feature event of the aft
ernoon's grand circuit races and was
heavily played in the auctions. At no
time was he in serious danger.
The 2:20 trot went into four heats,
Baby Doll captured the first mile eaily.
Then Tommv Murphy took the next
three with Helen Worth. Aullsbrook, the
favorite, was out of form and failed to
finish inside the money.
The 2:20 trot was also a four heat race
with Zombro Clay, favorite, winning the
first, third and fourth. Sister Strong took
the second money, so that the Valentine
the solution of the points mentioned in ashore. They called lustily for help, but
the previous note. Thus the de facto had been in the water almost two hours
government apparently rejects the pro- and were fast becoming exahusted when
posal that the commission consider other their cries were heard by Mrs. E. A
questions tlian the mi itarv situation. It Kane, whose house is near the lake shore,
limits its discussions to the subjects She summoned her husband, who quickly
DISTURBED
CONDITIONS
Extend to Chelsea, Mass.,
Where Car Men Demand
Reinstatement
OF MAN DISCHARGED
WITHOUT HEARING
The Vote Was Practically
Unanimous to Go on
Strike
origina.i'y suggested by Carranza.
ALLIED WARSHIPS
STILL PATROLLING
FOR SUBMARINE
rowed out to the men and took them
into his boat. The canoe was afterwards
brought to the shore by a motor boat.
Moody and Falkner expect to come to
this city today.
JENNINGS WON GOLD MEDAL
Apparently They Had Not Heard That And Mount Anthony Club of Bennington
the Deutschland Went Out to Sea Won Governor McCullough Cup.
Wednesday Night I Rutland, Aug. 4. At the close of the
" I f . t . 1 - . . 1 .
i umL uuy oi me annum iiu: gou luurim-
Norfolk, a., Aug. 4. Ihe allied eruis- ment P. II. Jennings of the Mount An-
ers patrolling the entrance to Hampton thony club of Bennington had captured
Koads to prevent the departure of the the gold medal for tho low score in the
German submarine Deutsehland still qualifying round, getting a 78, the Ek-
were in position within sight of shore wanok club of Manchester had won the
during yesterday and there waa nothing Governor McCullough cup for the best
to indicate they were aware of the pas- team score in the qualifying round and
sage of the Deutschland out through the the first round in the championship had
capes Wednesday night. Marine men been played.
here believed the submersible had entire- The Mount Anthony club of Benning-
ly eluded the war vessels and was safe- ton had three contestants, the Ekwanok
ly on her way across the Atlantic on her club of Manchester had two, the Rut
return voyage to Germany. land Country club had one, the Barre
Captain Hinsch of the war-bound Ger- Golf club had one and the Meadow
Miss Tauline E. Hadley and Charles man liner Neckar, who on board the tug Brook club of Barre had one in the sec-
E. Bliss of Springfield, were quietly mar- Thomas F. Timmiiw directed the depart- ond round for the championship. The
ried yesterday afternoon by Rev. C. lure of the Deutschland, said that the result of the first round was as follows:
Carson, pastor of tin Church of the underwater freighter passed unobserved P. II. Jennings of Mount Anthony de-
.iiessian, at the parsonage on -Main wunm rnu yarns or a i niteu Mates de- icaiect u. k. .McNce ot .Montpejier, 'S. up
street. They were unattended. The stroyer on neutrality duty about a mile and 1 to go; F. B. Jennings, jr., of
bride is a graduate of St. Johnsbury off the capes. He also disclosed that the .Mount Anthony beat W. L. McKee of
academy and the groom is employed in submarine submerged twice on her way I Montpelier, 0 up and 8 to go; L. R.
family got a good share of the purse.
MONTPELIER
Pauline E. Hadley and Charles E. Bliss
of Springfield Married.
Chelsea, Mass., Aug. 4. Tho report of
practically unanimous vote of carmen on
the Chelsea division of the Bay Siute
railway "to insist that the Bay State
officials live up to the agreement as as
signed by President Sullivan last Octo
her even to the extent of striking," was
forwarded to-day to the national office of
the Amalgamated Association of Street
Railway Employes. The voting, which
lasted all night, comes as the result of a
claim made by the car men that a con
ductor was discharged without a hearing.
J
AT THE CHAUTAUQUA TENT.
Extra Chairs Had to Be Brought in for
Two Performances.
a Springfield office. They will spend two
weeks in -Montpelier before returning to
Springfield to reside.
John L. McLean of Court street left
this morning for New York Citv on a
brief business visit.
The Drown Motor Car Co. of Barre has
filed with the secretary of state its in
tention to change the corporate name to
UldsmobiJe Company of ermont.
In probate court to-day Dura W. Whit
marsh of Nortlilield settled her account
as administrator of the estate of Charles
N. Whitmarsh. The will of Edwin C.
down the bay to test her engines.
PLANNED WHOLESALE
REIGN OF TERROR
Is Claim Made by District Attorney
Fickart After Investigating Thom
as Mooney's Desk in San
Francisco.
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
TOWN OF RUDKA
19
They Have Advanced to Position
Miles East of Kovel, Petrograd
War Office Announces.
Petrograd, Aug. 4. The Russian
troops have captured the village of Rud
ka Mirynskaia pn the river Stavok, a
tributary of the Stokhod, 19 miles east
of Kovel, the war office announces.
TO KEEP PARTY ALIVE.
GAIN WEST OF P0ZIERES.
British Won in Minor Operations, Lon
don War Office Announced.
London, Aug. 4. Minor operations by
the British on the Somme front resulted
in a gain west of Poziercs, the war office
announces.
ITALIAN STEAMER SUNK.
Large Number of Lives Believed to Be
Lest.
London, Aug. 4. The Italian mail
steamer Ietimbro has been sunk by a
submarine and 28 survivors have arrived
at Malta, says a Reuter despatch from
that place. Two boatloads with survi
vors have also arrived at Syracuse.
The Letimbro carried a crew of 57, and
her passengers numbered 113. It is be
lieved that a large number of them lost
their lives. The passengers included
women and children.
Survivors report that a submarine was
observed at a distance of about 6KMl
meters. It fired a warning shot and then
ave chase, firing continuously for half
an hour. It finally overtook the Letim
bro. which had begun to lower boats.
"The submarine," adds the despatch,
"'continued its bombardment, smashing
five boats, the occupants of which peri-died.
Some of the survivors say that
many were killed by shell fire."
All the crew of the Italian brig Robalio,
Horpedoed by an Austrian submarine,
have arrived at Malta. j who is ill with typhoid fever at Heaton
(hospital.
"WILLING AGENT OF GERMANY." Miss Irene Getchell of Berlin street
left yesterday afternoon for Boston to
That is Why Casement Was Executed, j''4 relatives.
Says British Press Bureau. j. r"Iiul Cit-T P'. r,!- r- '
invites it members and friends to a
Ixndon. Aug. 4 An official statement lawn ooeial at th home of O. L. Cheeper.
Tegsrd.np Roger Cavment. who was exe
cuted jeMerday, wa issued from the
j.ress bureau lat night as follows: ,
"The government carefully and re
Teat d'y considered all the circumstances
ia Lis Case ui eat ca before reaciutg a
San Francisco. Alls. 4. That Thorna
Holmes, late of Montpelier, wag proven. Mooney. one of tho- men indicted for
Mrs. Laura V. Fowler of Waterbury was murder in connection with the nrenared
appointed executrix of the last will and ness parade bomb explosion, planned to
lesuimeni oi ,ionn o. fowier, late oi inaugurate a reign ot terror here by im
Yvaternury. the Capital City Savings porting "direct action reds" from other
Hank & 1 rust Co., of Montpelier was ap- cities was the declaration of District At-
pointed trustee of a fund created by torney Fickart in making public some
the will of Stephen B. Blodgett, late of of the correspondence discovered by the
Cabot. police in Mooney's desk. He wrote Wil-
W. C. Lester of Omaha, Neb, arrived liam Hayward for hot-blooded men to
in the city this morning for a visit with come here to start mutinies airainst the
ueorge rutin ot .Main street, having heads of the unions they joined
Deen classmates at Jxeter academy.
is. rsarnum ot Aew York City is the
guest in the city for a few days of Wil
liam Lorry of Loomis street.
Owen Hurlburt was iu city court yes
terday afternoon charged with breaking
his probation by having been found in
toxicated, but after an investigation he
was again placed on probation. Hurl
hurt was originally arrested for illegal
selling of intoxicants and Saturday
night ha was arrested in Waterbury for
intoxication.
News has been received in the citv
of the birth of a son, August 1, to Mr.
and Mrs. Harvey Hodges at Fall River,
Mass. Mrs. Hodges was formerly Miss
Kutli Monn of this city, and Mr. Hodges
was for a year manager of the Barre
Wool worth store.
Mayor Bout well's trotter, Coastess
Mobel, finished third yesterday in the
16 trot at Kalamazoo, Mich., being
just behind the winner twice and fourth
once. Coastess Mobel is one of the Cox
strings.
T. R. Merrill is taking his annual vaca
tion from his duties as city clerk and
treasurer and with his family is camping
at Shady Rill.
Mrs. Louis H. Baine and children have
gone to Portland, Me., for a visit with
relatives.
Mrs. Martha F. Leslie and Mrs. Glenn
Doubleday are visiting in Burlington for
tew days.
At Intercity park yesterday afternoon
the Logan Squares, with Harris twirling.
played a 3 to 3 tie with the local state
league team. Milo. the former high
school twirler, was in the box for the
league nine.
Ex.-Gov. Allan M. Fletcher, Gov. C. W.
Gates and Russel Page, son of Senator
Carroll Tage, were visitors in the city
yesterday.
Little change is noted in the condition
of James H. Kelliher of North street.
Bull Moose Party Will Go Into State
Elections.
Indianapolis, Aug. 4. Plans for the
reorganization and perpetuation of the
Progressive party as a national political
organization were adopted here last night
at a conference of bull moose representa
tives. The conference after a heated
discussion decided it would be imprac
ticable at this late date to reassemble the
Progressive national convention and fill
the vacancy on the national ticket caused
by Theodore Roosevelt's declination of
the nomination for president. Instead,
the organization will put up an elector
al ticket in every state where there is
the nucleus of an organization left, bear-
ng the name of John aL Parker of Louisi
ina, nominee for vice-president, In the
hope of perhaps electing enough presiden
tial electors, who might prove the bal
ance of power in the event of a close
contest between the two parties.
J. A. Hopkins of New Jersey was
chosen treasurer. Matthew Hale of Mas
sachusetts, vice-chairman of the national
committee, will be in active charge of
the campaign.
An executive committee of 15 mem- j
hers will be 1 named by Vice-Chairman
Hale to co-operate with the 15 members
of the national committee who refused
Hutchinson of the Barre Golf, club beat
A. M. Reed of Ekwanok, 3 up and I to
go; G. II. rraser of Meadow Hrook beat
C. L. Holden of Mount Anthony, 2 up
and 1 to go; J. T. Gilmer of Mount An
thony beat George E. More of Rutland,
5 up and 3 to gof C. S. Clark of Ekwa
nok beat J. B. Stewart of Barre Golf
club, 6 np and 5 to go; E. M. Tond of
Rutland beat George W. Piatt of Rut
land, 3 up and 1 to go.
The second round started this rooming
with Jennings vs. Jennings, Hutchinson
vs. Fraser, Gilmer vs. Barber and Clark
vs. Pond.
Other results were as follows:
W. II. Johnston beat J. S. Sheldon, 6
up and 5 to go.
J. A. Merrill beat E. I. Hall, 6 up
and 4 to go.
F. II. Harris beat J. E. Walsh, 3 up
and 2 to go.
Ray E. Smith beat John field, 1 up,
1!) holes.
Frank Crocker beat J. F. Hall, 2 up.
O. h. Thompson beat W . 11. Dunn, 3 up
and 2 to go.
r.. K. Child bear (i. . Johnson, 4 up
and 2 to go.
J. I . itey beat I . Houghton, 5 up
and 3 to go.
Third Sixteen.
W. R. Pond beat Joseph Comolli, 3 up
and 2 to go.
George Worthington beat C. T. Fair
field, 3 up and 2 to go.
C. L. Pruvn beat J. T. Frazer, 1 up.
G. T. Murray beat D. J. MacMillan
5 up and 4 to go.
A. H. Bellerosc beat Robert Clement,
2 up.
Hugh Clement beat h. L. Olnev, 7 up
and o to go.
Two pairs were coupled with blanks to
fill out the desired 10.
The Governor McCullough cup waa
awarded to the team from the Mount
Anthony Country club in Bennington,
with a total of 341. The four men who
won the cup were P. H. Jennings with 78,
F. B. Jennings, jr., with 01. C. L. Holden
with 8fl, and J. T. Gilmer with 8H.
Ekwanok Country club of Manchester
The Community Chautauqua, which is
being held on the seminary campus, was
greeted by still larger audiences yester
day than Wednesday, 75 extra chair's
being used in the afternoon and evening.
The matinee performance was given by
two young men from New York, Godfrey
O'Hara, Irish tenor and composer, and
Wing Tabor Wetmore, impersonator and
humorist. These two fairly captivated
the audience with a variety of selections.
classical, popular and original composi
tions.
Perhaps the most ambitious endeavor
of the performance was "The Violin
Maker of Cremona," a 30-minute playlet
embracing four characters. Tliis was a
favorite piece of the late Richard Mans
field, and Mr. Wetmore, who was at one
time a member of Mansfield's company,
gave it with an intelligent grasp of the
finesse and histrionic possibilties of the
piece, the equal of which is seldom seen.
Mr. Wetmore gave a number of readings
n a lighter vein, which, judged by the
appreciation of the audience, were excellent.
Mr. O'Hara sang a number of songs,
including some of his own composition,
and added a unique specialty, when, with i
the assistance of a large victrola, h
played some original songs which he had
himself composed and sung into the V ic
tor, accompanying the same on the piano
and singing a duet with himself, making,
as he amusingly suggested, "a quintet."
This part of the program Mr. O Hara re
peated by request at the evening's enter
tainment, the first part of which was
well taken care of by these two talented
performers.
Arthur Delroy, president of the New
York Psychic society, gave a very inter
esting and enteitaining lecture in the
evening. He calls his "talk an exposi
tion of all the popular forms of mind
reading, slate writirg, answering sealed
questions, with the serious demonstra
tion of character reading from hands,
handwriting and faces. Mr. Delroy's
method is rather unique, as he steps up
boldly to any well-known person the au
dience chooses to designate and to the
satisfaction of those present reads from
specimens of handwriting or hands vari
ous characteristics with amusing exact
ness. Possibly his best stunt is the answer
ing upon a piece of paper previously
sealed in a bottle, questions put by the
audience in bold "spook writing," which
can be plainly read all over the tent. He
also reads questions sealed in an enve
lope by feeling same and "taking a
spasm," whimsically explaining after
wards that the "sjiasm" was the means
hy which he accomplished -the deed.
Mr. Delroy's explanation of hypnotism,
"what it is and how to avoid" it," was
most instructive, and he showed bv
means of a model how the fake hypnotist
apparently floats a woman in the air.
ine evenings program was a series
of witticisms from the moment Mr.
O'Hara sang his amusing original "Pret
ty, Pretty Creature" (vintage 1700) till
Air. Delroy even managed in his last
most serious talk On personal develop
ment to introduce a number of really
entertaining stories and jokes.
1 o-day the Dunbar Singers, four pret
ty girls from the sunny South, together
with Worth Allen, banjoist, gave the aft
ernoon's performance, and this evening
they will divide the program with Fred
erick W ard, the great Shakespearian an
IRA C. CALEF
Who Hat Just Glvm 120,000 to Barre City
Hoepital.
SECRET INQUEST
TURNS INTO RAIDS
Barre Police Made Three Successful
Searches Thursday Afternoon and
Four Respondents Were Held
for Hearing.
First fruits of a private inquest which
State's Attorney F. E. Gleason is con
ducting before Assistant Judge G. H.
Dale in the council room at city hall
were garnered Thursday afternoon when
the police raided alleged resorts on-Gran-
ite street, lower North Main street and
the A. Tomasi block. Bail aggregating
$2,n,r0 was taken by Magistrate H. W.
Scott before the respondents were given
their liberty and it is expected that hear
ings in all the cases will be held next
week.
On warrants issued by the state' at
torney, the police visiter! the place at 30H
North Main street known as "The Dead
Rat," where Mrs. Rosa Brusa was arrest
ed on charges of selling and keeping and
on the search and seizure warrant. Eight
cases of beer were removed to police
headquarters and Mrs. Brusa was held
to furnish bail of $1,050 on three counts.
On the premises of Mrs. Rachel CYavero
at 45 Granite street the officers seized a
barrel of draft beer, a barrel of bottled
beer and a small quantity of whiskey.
Mrs. Cravero was held in the sura of
$550 to appear at a hearing next week
in the A. tomasi block the police seized
a case of beer and five cases of empty
bottlos. .Mrs. fcliza Toea was arrested
on a search and seizure warrant and lat
er on a complaint charging her with
making illegal sale. Her husband, Gus
ta Toea, was also taken in custody on l
similar charge, each being compelled to
turnish if.wO bail.
None of the respondents was asked to
plead on the complaints and the dates
fixed for hearings will be announced
early in the coming week. Meanwhile
the inquest goes busily on. Yesterday
the authorities in charge of the inquiry
found it incumbent to put some of the
witnesses under bail of $500, in order to
secure their appearance at the hearings.
An agent said to be in the employ of
the state is assisting those in authority,
it is reported, and a number of witnesses.
upon having their notos compared with
those of the agent, have been induced to
change their stories. Yesterday's raids
were in charge of Chief Sinclair, Officers
Gamble, Dineen and Mnrley and Deputy
Sheriff George L. Morris.
HOSPITAL
RECFIVES
$2';000
Ira C. Cal Juplicatcs His
Previous- Jntribution and
Stipulates That One-Half
Shall Be Used on Mort
gage Debt and One-Half
Be Turned into Endowment
GRANITE BANK AS
SPECIAL TRUSTEE
lis Gift Reduces Mortgage j
Debt on New Building to j
$25,000 and Raises the En- j
dowment Fund to $21,000 !
Donation Made on An-
niversary of New Build
ing's Dedication
IN STATU QUO.
That Is; the City Council Still Remains
Uncertain About Truck.
City councilors eased into their accus
tomed places in their own chamber at
city hall last night and devoted the bet
ter part of the evening to rehashing the
water oepartmeut truck, pro and con.
Their deliberations led up the family
alley that ends in a blind wall and be-
iore adjournment was taken angry
words had been let loose. The night was
warm and a good bit of the peevishness
displayed may be ascribed to the hu
midity. Mayor Gordon presided and all
members were present. Division of sen
timent over the proposal to purchase a
$1,300 motor truck for the water de
partment remained undisturbed. Alder
men Shurtlelf, Reynolds and Rossi stand
ing out for the proposal to give all truck
agents a fair shake, while sentiment on
the other side was arranged mostly in
favor of the G. M. C. car.
It was Chairman Healy of the water
department who moved the purchase
of the G. M. C. truck and the motion
was seconded by Alderman Bruce. Al-
ierman Rossi moved an amendment au
thorizing the mayor and chairman of
the water committee to investigate oth
er trucks and report at their convenience.
On the' motion as amended, Aldermen
was second with 350. C. S. Clark with
00, W. A. Barber, jr.. with 83, C. M.j birth of William Shakespeare is being
nark witn hz ami a. si. rceea wnn iceicoraieu inrougnont tne entire Knel sh.
thority, actor and lecturer. Now that ! Glysson. Healy and Bruce voted in the
tne third century anniversary of the
formed the team.
Rutland was third with 3fiO, George
Morse with 83. George W. Piatt with 00.
E. M. Pond with t2 and W. H. Dunn with
05,
Barre was fourth with a total of 385,
to vote for the endorsement of Charles J. E. Walsh having !. h. R. Hutchinson
f5
fc. Hughes at ihicago, June i:o, in re-
labilitatmg the party. This committee
will meet after the November election to
formulate plans for the perpetuation of
the party. These plans may include
some kind of an amalgamation with i
the Prohibition, Socialist and Woman's
parties.
Edwin M. Lee of Indiana, A. D. Nor
ton of Missouri, Bainbridge Colby of
New York, C. F. Hoffman of Michigan.
Harold Moise of Ixmisiana and C. W.
J. B. Stewart 05 and W. H. Johnston
00.
FUNERAL OF HEAT VICTIM.
' Held in Barre, Body of Wm. A. Morrison
Being Brought from Chicago.
The funeral of William A. Morrison, a
former resident of Parre. whose death
occurred in Oiicago Saturday as the re
sult of heat prostration, was held in the
M.-Clure of Georgia were named mem- j mortuary chapel at -A. W. Badger Co.'s
bers of the executive committee. The (undertaking establishment Thursday aft-
ernoon at Z:3 ociotk. r:ev. . j. ji.
speaking world, Mr. Wards lecture,
which is very interesting and amusing,
as well as instructive, will be of special
importance to the students of the great
est poet of all time.
Judging from the large attendance and
the high standard of entertainment,
Barrr-'s Chautauqua will be a gratifying
success, and those guarantors who have
worked so hard to make the venture a
success will feel that their efforts have i
not been in vain.
Again Ira C. Calef of Washington has j
given tangible evidence of his interest i
in the Barre City hospital. To-day he
made over to the hospital corporation or
to a special trustee the sum of $20,000,
thus duplicating his munificence of two j
years ago when he started the ball j
a-rolling for a new hoopital building by j
giving $10,000 on condition that $30,000 j
additional be raised and followed it up !
promptly on the fulfilling of that Condi- !
tion by donating $10,000 more for an en-
dowment fund. Therefore, his contribu
tion to this institution totals $40,000.
The gift was made on the first anniver
sary of the dedication of the hospital. j
Needless to say, this second gift, like ;
its predecessor, was most timely, a well j
as most generous. Even as the first do- ,
nation heartened the hospital sponsors I
for tremendous efforts and spurred the j
public on to splendid co-operation to the j
end that a commodious and modern
building might be erected, so the second (
gift has lent unmeasured energy toward :
the purpose to maintain a hospital which
shall be in every sense of the word wor- :
thy of its place in the community and :
the territory immediately surrounding.
The first contribution was just the in-
centive needed to crystallize public senti- i
ment into an irresistible determination ;
to erect a hospital structure adequate to i
the needs; the second goes far toward ;
assuring the permanency of that institu- j
tion on a high plane. The hospital, while .
not yet free from debt. ' nevertheless j
placed in such a financial condition as i
to make such a dosideratum seem vastly
more easy of accomplishment. . !
$10,000 for Endowment; $10,000 for Debt j
In making his present donation Mr. !
Calef has ehown the foresight of a keen J
business man by imposing a stipulation j
a stipulation which, by the way, ia
not at all burdensome, nor yet unusual !
that one-half of the $20,000 shall be held '
in charge of a special trustee pending i
the financial development of the institu- :
tion. Ten thousand dollars he gives out- j
right in cash with the understanding and ;
with the expressed agreement on the J
part of the corporation that the amount j
be immediately applied toward the liq- i
uidation of the debt resting on the cor- '
poration by reason of the completion of j
the building project along the lines which j
seemed desirable for the best work of I
the hospital. The $10,000 was to-day j
used to meet part of the obligations now i
impending. j
The other half of the $20,000 Mr. Calef j
has deposited with the Granite Savings
Trust Co. as special trustee for the
hospital corporation, the amount being
In municipal bonds and the income from j
the same to be paid to the hospital. It I
is provided that if within 15 years from j
date the hospital shall have paid and j
cancelled the mortgage debt upon its
property and have no existing debt upon I
it, the trustee shall pay over to the hos- j
pital all money and securities then in its i
hands, to be added to the hospital en- J
dowment fund and so kept. It is fur- j
ther provided that if at the end of the 15 j
years from date the Barre City hospital
negative while it was supported by the hfl ot jmve fuIiv pai(1 ,n(1 canPeHed I
mayor and Aldermen Shurtlelf. Reynolds i .n dht aoainst it.'btit shall then be in i
: ...
full possession of its property, and the
and Rossi. A motion made by Alder
man Bruce to add Alderman Shurtlelf,
Reynolds and Rossi to the special com
mittee was carried. Then the boys adjourned.
Misa Irene Goneo of South Main street.
Barre and Barre Town young people
joined last evening in tending a surprise
party to Miss Georgia I aimer at her
home in Graniteville, the occasion being
the ISth birthday of the hostess. A
musical romance and other games were
same not in any manner assigned or
foreclosed, and shall be operating the !
same for public hospital purposes, as it I
now is, then the trustee shall nay and j
deliver over to the hospital all money j
and securities in its hands, the income i
onlv to be used for current needs of the
hospital. , ;
If the hospital should fall to meet j
thee requirement or should sell or as- I
sign its property to any person, firm or j
corporation, or should suner the same
other members will be announced by
Vice-Chairman Hale in a few weeks.
WILL FOLLOW HUGHES.
enjoyed during the evening, the first fa
vors being awarded to Mi-a Iuise Par- to , forvl,d, then the trustee named i
tridge of Barre and Roscoe Avery of I thll oav and deli-er over to the trustees !
who is taking a vacation of a few dav"Ea!it B;""r'- , fnI,low'n? ""' rr"-of Godd'ard seminary all money and se- i
from her duties in the Barre Candy ?ram V." r'n'J',: 'no solo, Mias jirHi th,n in iu h,nds. to be added!
Kitclw-n, left vesterdav for her former ! il,,!.v Wl. of 1 arr': TOC'1 oI' Mi !to the endowment fund of Goddard,
home In Tlattsburg, X. Y to visit rela- j "Z'V.X" t. Fm.nci.l Conditio, of the H-lrfUL '
I . 1 1 1 1 1 . , j 1 " ' ' " ' . .N.i.jri , i. m t. r ; - - -
of East Barre; piano solo. Miss Mar-1 The hospital corporation recognised !
guerite Roberts of South Barre; chorus 'the wisdom of the stipulation, while at.'
song, company, .ai a laie nonr re:rli- the same lime reeling connaent mil u
tive.
As Henry Kent of Wellington street.
who is working as baggage master at
r jtnents of ice cream and cake were served ' prospect of a change waa very remote,
- by Miss Partridge nd Miss Hazel Wilder and readily accepted the condition as
near the ftarre transfer Saturday even-!chw, w Ttixht1ik U t0 Tour the'
leaving Montpelier at 7. 7:."?o, snl S
o'clock. Iyeave the cars at Jeru's cross
ing. If weather is unfavorable, come
Mcadav fii-LU i
Country, Too.
New York. Aug. 4. Republican leaders
announce that (harle W. Fairbanks will
tour the country, following Hughes.
Beattie, rector of the Church of the Good The Fabyans, N. H., was helping another'
CV 1 J Ttid. I . . . .man (rt Ina il trunk Wai . . .
.iiT-urru, uim ti '- '""ihi wnr; j ..... .. - - - - . j aiit-r- 1 Dv .lips wiit.v.;- mum .,iim riMi-ri vt liner anl r"'jii j.in, it- iiiuji-iuu
imam .Mcipnni " ..loaison place, j n'n. upm mm wagon, an.l ot r.r ivarrr. i nereaiter Miss I aimer j shove outlines. mill me fiu.issj neia
James Smart. Hiurh Christie. Robert In- , in doing so his foot slipped, letting hiro 'received a large number of anniverary , in tni't be-ome a temporary endow- i
glis. Ihivid Mortimer and Robert Knox. : fall with his weight on his left arm. 'gifts, the list including a solid gdd pen-; ment fund. th- same to be classed as j
A delegation of members of Clan Gordon, causing a fracture just above the elhnm-. idant and chain, the gitt of her un. le and permanent endowment when the condl- !
No. 12. O. S. C-. to which the dereawd Mr. Kent returned to his home on Wcl- aunt. The preenUtion speech n' tin shall have been complied with. This
belonged, was in attendance, and there ! lington sfreet yesterday morning to re-'made by !: Geake and before depart- brings the total invested funds of tb '
were several fine floral tributes. Inter- i main until the injury knits so that heiing msnv felicitous messages were left I .
can return to his work, 'witi the bostesa, '
ment waa made in Hope cemeUrj.
(Continued on e:$ita pafHjj
I
