MEW
MEXICO STATE RECORD
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY AUGUST, 4, 1916.
NUMBER 97
not interested to search for or ex-'
plore."
And in the next paragraph: "One
observation on tlie causes of the pre.
sent war we are at liberty to make,
and to make it may throw some light
forward upon the future to make,
and to make it may throw some light
i" (forward upon the future, as well as
ail iinn nr nirTi inr-r r '
m.U IMPJUO ur riU I UnCd. backward upon the past." Sin
THE MOVIES
WILL FIGURE
IN CAMPAIGN
WILL BE SHOWN. DEMO
CRATS WILL SHOW MUNI
TION FACTORIES BUSY
REPUBLICANS TO
EDUCATE PEOPLE
TEST WILL SHOW AM MUNI
TION SHIPPED TO CABRAN
ZA. HUGHES WANTS BOTH
HOUSES OP CONGRESS.
' SUGAR QUESTION
Washington, Aug, 2. (Special Cor.
respondence) --The Democratic party
will make exttnsive use of the
'Movies" in the coming campaign.
There will be pictures of factories
running at full blast; ships leaving!
New York harbor loaded with ex
ports bound for Furope and South
America; President Wilson, wearing
a mortarboard hat and flanked by
The Oxford dictionary and Roget's
Thesaurus, will be seen typewritini
notes to the belligerents and hil et
deux to Carranze; while a five mi-
arc not concerned with its causes and
objects, why make the one observa
tion. This dictional deiation on the
part of Woodrow recalls Bernard
Shaw's remark:
''Since history repeats itself md the
unexpected always happens, how can
we profit by experience"?
Mint Have Majority
The President is to take a vacation
at Lake Kawagucsaga with the ac
cent on the "gues".
Mr. Hughes's insistence that but
half a victory will be gained if the
Republicans fait to secure a sub
stantial working majority in both
the House and the Senate is an in
dication of the political unselfishness
of the Republican candidate. It is
in refreshing contrast to the general
attitude of Mr. Wilson, which is
based on the assumption that he is
the whole show, that his personal
INTERESTING
COMMENTS OF
STATE PRESS
THE POLITICAL POT SEETH
ING, EDITORS AND COR
RESPONDENTS TALK. MC
NOT TALKING
PUTNEY IS OUT
OF THE RUNNING
DARK HORSES LOOMING UP
POR GOVERNOR AND SEN
ATOR. PALL TO KEYNOTE.
MURRAY SURE. SARGENT
RECEPTIVE
The democrats have stopped talk
ing McDonald, and it is said to be be
cause the friends of the executive
have convinced him he can not he re
elected, and that the less said about
the issues raised by his administra
tion the more votes the next dem
ocratic candidate will get. This con-
iviction is believed to have come to!
the democratic boss after a number
of trips through the state, it is ad.
mitted by several thousand demo
crats of the state that the voters
made a serious mistake at the first
election in selecting a governor and
it is believed they have made this
so plain to McDonald that he has
decided to retire from politics, for
the present, at least. Clayton Citi
zen.
of the republican party he will was not supporting any candidate. He
eagerly accept thir support if he can has extraordinary powers as an or
only work himself into the nomina- ganizer and harmonizer. When the
t'or crisis comes, he may be prevailed
The Citizen has no personal feeling upon to use his influence in the 'n
against Mr. Ely, but it is forced to terest of party harmony. Guthrie
the conclusion that he is not biff Smith In El Paso Herald
enough for the lob he has, and is)
entirely too small for the governor
ship, and besides he could not be
Bursum Lead Ail Opponent
elected if nominated.
WAR, POLITICS
AND EFFORTS
OF DIPLOMACY
SECOND YEAR OF EUROPEAN
Fairly complete reports from eieryl
county in New Mexico which have I
The Republicans are going to pick been brought to Albuquerque thisj
a man big enough for the job and week by reliable men indicate that H.j
with the vote getting qualities which O. Bursum will be the Renublican!
will assure his election, and it is no; nominee for governor, and that he'
secret that the man has been decided j will be named by a substantial ma-; CONVENTIONS ARE
upon in the person of Hon. H. O. jority on the first ballot. The falling'
WAR, CONTINUATION OF
RUSSIAN ADVANCE. AW
FUL EXPLOSION
Th.y UM Him
Capitan had a distinguished visitor
Wednesday. Hon. Prank A. Hubbell
statesman, ranchman and banker, of
Albuquerque, was here mixing among
the people tit the interests of his
candidacy for United States Senator.
Mr. Hubbell Is making a hurried trip
througih the country at this time to
As we said last week, and desire
to repeat, the Hon. Frank A. Hub
bell is gaining strength in every: meet party leaders and become ac
county of the state, and it is because quainted with as many people as he
success and the success of his ideas jof his close itlentf'tion with the, can on such a trip, but la not making
in legislation and administration are'8reat industriaI interests of the state. I speeches. This trip Is only prcli-
the paramount features which theBuslnes5 lntercsts desire a certain, mlnary to his campaign work; later
country must pass upon. and effective representation in the: on he will make a thorough canvass
The meddlesome Mr. McAdoo isU'"tcd States senate and throughout of the state and will revisit Capitan,
credited by Washington rumor with i fe .nat,on ,the sentimcnt forina ef-, address the people and let them un
the responsibility for the dissensions ' fCCt,Ve aml SMe"aM ,,,,sine " derstand his attitude toward, ques-
whirh are rnmintr ib- front in H,l" " '" " " i "ons aneciing tneir interests from
Bursum, of Socorro county.
away from Secundino Romero, noted
Several thousand voters of New three weeks ago, has continued stead-
Mexico now realize that they made a'ily. Romero can only count six coun-l
mistake at the first state election ties, with a total of 87 votes, as com-'
HELD FOR SELECTION
which they well not repeat,
The only complaint with any basis
mitted to him and of those Guada-I DELEGATES BEING CHOSEN
lupe county is reported in a position,
of truth which Mr. Ely can make of extreme uncertainty. There Is a'
against the Republican party of this stron& possibility that some of Santa!
state Is the one that he is not favored Fe cunty's eighteen votes will bel
as a candidate. There is nothing else cast for Bursum and the latter hasi
TO STATE MEET. INSTRUC
TIONS GIVEN. MEXICAN
SITUATION NOT MUCH
CHANGED.
to it. Las Cruces Citizen.
The second year of the world war
good ground for his belief that hej
will get part of the Taos county dele
gation on the first balot. Btirsum'si cIoses with the "Battle of Europe." a
supporters assert that he has 1)' concerted effort of the allies on three
votes nledccd for (hi. firr Katlnf l . . .
' " tronts to crusn the central powers.
can count on.
The War It Looks
Reports from reliable sources and
levering praciicany tne entire state mnrA i,- .., . 0i
of New Mexico, indicate that Holm fh(. h n(ln,l,t k 7'n lwh developed into a t.Umc
O. Bursum. for r A I ' undoubtedly ha, 120 which tc bcfore which superlatievs,
. " " ne
Hubbell, for the United States senate I
to succeed Thomas B. Catron, arej
steadily gaining ground in their cam-!
paigms for the Republican nomina-'
tions for the offices they seek. i
There is a growing belief that Chas
already exhausted, are completely
beggard.
The Senatorial Fight j France and Great Britain in the
As to the senatorial nomination west, Russia in the east. Italy i.i the
there is as much interest in the fight 'south are hurling wave after wave of
between Senator Catron and Frark A. armed men on the Teutonic lines, to
Hubbell of this city at at anv time gcther with an avalanrh of shells and
Itical than men without experience a foreign and domestic point of view.l
and many theories. ! Hi"- tr..l.t.tl .... r i n IA Sniess of Tn. V..rrie ri,
j -- ... . . i uiwiiL-ii i an ai.ienr. rvenmilican ' tk'. n. i v ii.ii i ' i . . . . , . , , . ,
i i . . since tne nominating campaign hegan, I'omns such as me worm nas not
ir. milium is receivcing ine "n iiuvocarrs an rue policies em-: 1 " "i1"". '" ""i .on won
benefits of this growing sentiment braced in his partv's platform T To I a vo r Pn the aspirations of Bur- .
'sum .mil HmM.aII ...II .... ...
inn this week at home, cheerfully as- porarily at least.
i;;-,i .i t:..i...:.. i.:.. :. i . state
in the munition and ''war orders"'
nillMU ol I in mnnnpii m .ifloMi tint;
ranks nf Mr. Wilson's campaign I
r irl' rpi..u, u oiin -,f managers. As son-in-law to the i
dcrs marching into Mexico an. 1 1 President, McAdoo has manifest ad-,
I .. 1. .11 a I. C l' 111 MIS 111 111 1.1 ll f IVI L! ttMILIIIlCUL "i '"H M I P.J I V lll.l I I I It III 1 .... um - . . , . . e. , ,
tiiarrhini? Iiark aL.iin V,,I1,,N "Vl r aii oincr .sccKers 01 - , : outcome. Huhbell, who is snend- tMl' urt T,,n' "f U-utuns iff
" " . . ..t a i. n iit. n-cAt c;!. u. t tt siirii .1 ti 1 1 ii nn, u.i it, t.- av
,. ... the presidential ear- and recent no- " " V"-" -"c-n -- " i,,,, this week at home, cheerfullv as- porarily at least. o th
...v .......j ,..v,.i...t ... ... '"n11 1 ..... ... . stale convention hnrkeH hv Ih. Wl e ert Mr 1 llnhes to the Prn . iremi; lengtns ! nreverit tlleir n.inil-
business interests of the state, not doncy, and that they will also carry "lt'" ,lv ''' onvi'i.tion ,m
districts; the shiploads of supplies to
Europe will be over 50 per cent mu
nition of war, and those to Soutli
privilege has been utilized.
just because he is Frank A. Hubbell, the state of New Mexico by a
gust
f.,r.
.aid i
"Ameri-i" c-,i,1 r ,,, a Kepuldicati, but because he is a maiority of from MXIO tn lO.fXK). iics.- prui..T
h; ii0, 'i. ., f:...i man chuc to the people of the state While the editor of the Moun-!c'"1 ''''' l,nt wallt nursiim and IIul
serfs that he ha-: the same number of the thousands of mile
pled;;cd votes as Hurstim, or he'ter battle fronts.
tetn-
ileiensive on
1 the existing
She has offended all of them duriii" are ''is '"tcfe5'3. one :''l insepara- tical faith, he will express an opinion s"l'llort Secundino Romero, of Las
this war" Now, as Democratic Sen- b,e' anJ ,lis evcry effort must act formed of the man without beinn Vegas, for governor, and were no
ator we would tike Mr f ew.Vs on!. for the benefit of the people. , biased by any political feelimj Dur- morc than lukewarm in bolstering tip
mer.ca w, taKC tne p.ace o. n(? al) he natjons of and their interests; their interests taineer is not of Mr. Tfubbell's noli
is now cut offns a base of supply
because European factories are bend
ing their energies toward keeping the
armies up to the highest efficiency
in equipment.
It is highly probable that the Re
publicans will also use the "movies"
as a medium through which to'edu
cate the people. Accounts of the
Vera Cruz fiasco, the Columbus and
Santa Isabella massacres, and the
treachery at Carrizal have been given
hell: that they merely pretender! to
than fnoiteh to nominate. Hubbell The change in the situation whiih
workers say that their candidate has the war has brought is striking, al
U8 delegates pledtred to him. They though the result 5o far have been
admit that Senator Cntron has a re.i- more potential and spectacular than
sonahle er'tainty of ten eonntv d-te. rai'ieal. A year ago the (iermans
Rations with a total vote of 17. A; j,, continuing their great drive against
,,nor r ,t,... .."":. :a:"' i.i . 1 1.,. i.',,co;-o,j i,,,ri..,i ti... yt,.., k,L.
nion as to just how all this offending 1 wno 3rc Renting some ot K a stay o, sever,-,, nours in Papuan, ' ; vvt war, mor( ,,,.,.,,. ,.ntir, , front. f;l,,f,ir.
came about and just how far the pre-;"-'" "mc wondenng where h.s ac- r. ...,e,, railed on the ed-tor and ' ' ay "PP'ars u, he W:i,s,w frtrcts of
sent administration's foreign policy u s"u'6'" " - a -" w..y. ( - - . H(,hM1 ?t.,ltr Crnmn counts as vno, Novo (leortrievsk and Hrest-
is responsible
At Washington the opinion pre
vails, even among many Democrats,
that the government armor plant for
which Congress has appropriated
j should think over these facts for a Tt wa one of those calls which w e more so-
his the delegates from Colfax, I. urn, 1 itovsk and established lines far i.i-
l . I ' .1,.,,,. .I . i. .i r, 1 . 1. . r.
... ...m Mm.y u.c.r minus., j a wis,, ru-y, .1 was M.u .n may tnac tne McKintey. 0av. Rio Arriba ?an Mi- i" Russian territory which they
-La, Cruces Citizen. .would come oftener. We were not Springer combination would jockey ' Fe.' Torrance, Union Va- momtained virtual'v unbroken until
.only pleased with his social side, but; forces up to convention time so as to n,, ,,, ,,.., u ,,;,; .i,e Inst three ,!.. Th,
Putney Out Of It
I $11,000.0011 will never b built and! Robert E. Putney, plain business
.were strongly impressed with bis bring about something of a dndlocl:
force of character and fine ability. He .between the followers of Bursum and
concede to Iiirn. Catron workers a?- -eied nil Poland, a L-reat slice of Rin-
scrt that the senator also will have to the south of that country anil
..t ti i-j 1 . 1 " -'... ".it ui uie nuoiii; men , ixun.ri o, wuieri would maKC t DOS- c, t 1.1 r. , I'.j .1... : 1 t.::
f. . . u iciduu. n is iiiumateii inai ine : .nan auu a vciy wisy one jusi now, . 1 ..u. .111.111 i'hiiuv . lu.uiaiune, i.inroin 1 r1 " 'i ni.i'iei ironi naiiei.i
in guffieient detail to permit their, , , the state and is continually gain- sible to nominate a "dark horse." or ,., x.. ti. ' ' i.;..i.i
, . . 1 ouui'uir.ttUUll IU UVJ SO Will UC USCU 1" " 3 IU IJ'ltM anil IfUHt 1 . mm a mi. Illtsc idliei rtTC ChlHllCtl i -nn.- n ,im. i mvi .uaiJiinij tuii
aepicuon on tne screen; pictures ot i . . j .. . . nig strength as a candidatf. C'anitan conioroniisf candidnfe fnr fTo.ermsr r , 1 .. . .... . ir 1 1 , ...
Dy ine aaministration as a ciut over.as tne penaing political campaign ' " " oy iiuoncn, wno also helieves lie has rinuicniiurg ami von Mackensen were-
the heads of private manufacturers progresses, but he does not propose ' . "nn'"SI'nam' president of tle Pona Ana county delegation in the heron of these great successes.
of armor plate to compel them to fur-! that his activity shall be along po-l mi mh nif.uri national miik, a. us hands. j In sheer human interest the battle
shipments of firearms and ammuni
tion to the Carranza government
tnioiht hp shown the two hrolren
, 1 ! t. .inish armor at cost or less. In other litical lines. It will he strictly in eon-
down aeroplanes which accompanied i...T .j... .
They Can't Get Away
Vegas, was the candidate mist frc-!
the hunters of Villa, the machine
guns which insist on jamming, and
'of Verdun probably surpassed all oth
er individual events of the war. On
I will be to equip the new navy by!
, K1nL-mo!l I
the dilapidated equipment of our , . . ..... J
, . . , The entraining! of the National
' - r 1 t xt tt t . - c .t. j: 1 ""i irtuuuiiiic anu inar ne woiieo . .... n . . - .
vjuaiu ui new fiaiiipsuire compieicu nuiuiiiaiion ior governor 01 iNew 10 ine uiscaru. 1 ..ie as 10 ine t cms vaney votes artii ,,,.,nv tri'inne. as ine gateway 10
!the mobilization of the citizen sol-lMexico, the importunities of friends1 The democratic party of the state not' unner a"y circumstances, seek ,i,n,e of f;rant county which may ef. France. For five months the defend
er accept tne nomination. . f,,rr mart..j el,,nrr. : t, ,,t ,-r, u.;tt.Sf,soH r, .form -,t th. f, f
There have been later reports to lie up of the Republican state ticket, which the world stood aghast. Foot
'by toot, almost inch by inch, the Ger-
show what the Democrats have done
toward preparedness during the past
three years.
In respect to industry the Republi-
words, the plan of Josephus Daniels j nection with his own growing and ex-1 TTie democrats are now making' ''"t,,l,y memioneo as tne naric norse.j Murray For State Treasurer
panding private business interests. I frantic efforts to escape the issues! only trouble with tins scheme Hubbell claims all of the Pecos va!-, February 2.1 the licrman crown prince
In other words, Mr. Putney will not of the coming campaign, and are ta1k-jwas tnat did not interest nr. Cun- icy delegates, and Grant county's six began his assault of the historic
be a candidate for the Democratic ing of relegating Governor McDonald m"Knam- Te told me that he wa, vo(e3 Several contingencies may French fortress, known throughout
not a canmaate ana tnat lie would
diers of the North. The States which j and admirer, and would-be support- must be held responsible for the many
have not sent a man to. the border ers all over New Mexico not with- mistakes of its representatives in of-
are Delaware. West Virtrinia. North ' standinir: nor will he accent a nomi- fice. The fact that the democrats seek tne c,tect tnat Wi G- sar;cnt, state w. D. Murray, of Silver City, for in.
can party may run a turn taKen Just, Carolina Sou,h CaroIina( Florida, nation for the governorship at the to avoid the issue, by refusing to au",,or anl mayor of the citv of 5tance, is a ram;Hate for the nomina- mans forced forward, with a reckless
idle factories, blown-out blast fur-j Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Ten-! hands of his party, whether tendered renominate the man responsible more Santa pe, would prove acceptable. tint, fnr state treasurer, and his disregard of their lives, a tenacity and
naces, the long bread line of idle men: nessee and Kentucky. It was Con- him by the unanimous vote of a state than others will not work to remove SarRcnt sa!(I that he was ""thing frien(u are determined that he shall and cool .nrage whirl, was only
......B uy me i .ci.....,,,,. u, cnKressman Ma(,(Ier(i we )cllvei w10 1 convention, or otherwise. Mr. Putney the memory of those mistakes from ,m,re l,,an a rcceptive canMioaie; mat lavc the nomination. Gregory Pace, equalled by th.
getting his half loaf and moving onjf;rst caed ,he attention of t,,e counJ simply is not in politic, and he does the minds of the voters. The nomi-of co,,rse he wouM not dnclin(' "'e of Gallup, demands the position. Svl- ' ' the French.
UUo .,uuc, u,c sloe- try tQ the fact that whj)e Democratsnot pr0pose to get m or to be either nation of another man will not re,-1 ""mmanon, our tnat ne was m no yestre Mirabal, of Valencia county, 'i i'l -
no.aerSoPen.ngn.smauattneDreaK.;prttend that e fich sha pay wllilc:dramcd r pushed in, so far as any tore to the depositors of the First, sense ,ry,nS ,or 11
heroic determination
hi June i an unof-
m.ite of the German losses)
would like it. There arc other catnli- at V -rd.in placed the total at the ap-
r . ..it. i i? . , ,. . ,
.am HTO dii reauing mac no oivi-,tne poor sna fiprht thejr practice ;s connection with the 1916 campaign State Bank the money lost through
dend would be declared this quarter to the nnfn r ... !n(,ffjr!nPv. , , f,:r:ni. .
which also provide the soldiers. The big wholesale merchant told a'poscd to be looking after the bank-: '"f. apparently, ali other plans fail to counties where these gentlemen live aho.it thre
I V stuay ot tne niography of James i representative of the Herald as much mg attairs of the state, and while aeiear nursum ami Komero tor tne anu worK is counting before ti e lortre.s Di
The latest report is that B. C. Her- dates nearly as powerful as those palli v figure uf 450,0X10. The as
nandez will be thrown inti the fight, named. Counting delegates from th' sailauts t in Jit their way to within
and a half miles of the
for several weeks have
rt.-.l no :'urtbtr pr-.cress and tlx:
o of their attacks appears to hava
ioiuc servea as rare s arrornev in i inrr a fiemnn.1 tint hi. nnctmn f. orrranizarion mp.sr pirner rennninrp . cnoiiniiaieu .or tuniiress: an mat to. k eier ;tc senarorrii notTimntion le.-enei.
free-trade tariff law, and displacing Virginia-but that was many vears stated fully and frankly so that no the man doing the appointing or ac- he would be reelected, since in 1914 now as at any time since the battle The Ru.-iu . h..ve continued their
goods 'made in America. The eye' x. ... ..,.., . , A. . . .. .... , u: be ,!ef,.r,te,l ft, i,t TT-r n t?- for c.,r.,. i. ..
... i . n y a Tuuuitu, cauci ICI1I.C liiruuT in I5UIU1C.M an (1 1 n g a nolle It Can Ltr' 1,1 ' c n'miunii n-t .11 in aeis. -' " l" .". ...... j, v., ,.. ...... j ulihh ii v .. i i imi ,iij,i
on his stock; the docks at New York,
Boston, New Orleans, San Francisco
x- ruana neapea nigu witn goods fIay whom Wilson ha, appointed to this morning, not only with leave to the responsible officials were appoint-: nomination. It has been accepted as hatching process has been concluded.
u,a ..i iu.ci(,ii commies cummg in-,the Cm)rt of Qa;mSi ?hPWS tnat he print, but with something approach- ed by the governor, the democratic a certainty that Hernandez would be There is as great chance for a dea l-
iu me J-imerican marKet unaer a ncar-i
exnerienre fiirtdpr tnUimrlirnnitlnir ?t.mi rent the resnonsibilities nf his arts he defeated the late Harvev 3. Fer for supremacy between Catron
lnen Dc tllrnea prosecuting ncgros for chicken steal- arise Albuquerque Herald. And there are other things too nil- gnsson by a substantial maiority. An Andrews,
on an empty treasury, and a corps j ;ntr wi he spIendid enuipment fori ! mcrotis to mention in the-e columns 1 effort to nominate Hernandez for
v. .iiaau.jr uuiiii lull lb tl WUI K ue-
weelc
oi.iKi aencnies to IOOI ine pUDHC as i blflldl
to the actual condition of Federal
finances. Following this would come
a picture of the Democratic members
! service on an
ind the first of the
c-,i tnred ..I, intire Teuton regiment.
1 ho Hr'tis'i have improved posi'ioni
1 n the coii.-ts of the
i'.eri,:, reports that bat
iniiii!.. iolei;tlv and that
t'
important Federalj Kale Needed ! at this time, all of them rcf'cctmg governor will lie taking a desperate Sargent Contented With Present Job a!r
I The democrats have been trvinc upon the efficiency of the democratic chance. The prevailing opinion Although he h is the vote- of Rio ft
Getting Material For A Speech , hard to induce some man with a little officials of the state, and no shtif- throughout New Mexico is tint with Arriba and C.Ifax counties for his '''
The Chairman of the Democratic monev to accept the nomination for fling of candidates will make the Hernandez the nominee for governor, nnmin.il ion for governor, it Is not
: National Com mitt.. 9tinnn,ii.A. flil ,...nn. A. il..:. . . I . U... vnlore fdrwf ' the KCOtlblican ticket will not llkelv that State Amlitor V C.
of the Ways and Means Committee ; Mr. Wilson wi not rMcive fhe for. th are not mccti with a t If the democrats nominate Mc- "early so strong as with Hern:,,- sent will press his clan,,. He is " 1 .Frvlc" ;"c"e''
framing legislation for additional tax-jma, notification of his nomiation ' Sllccess. , Donald, the record of his adminis-' the nominee for congress. In friendly to Rursum an d has indicated ' a con.n,.ss,oner of public lanJs.
ation in order to meet ti e nnp.ir.,l-liintil af(cr he Conpr(s5 al.oiirns j It ;5 said ,na, plltncy hesita,ed a ,rat;on will beat him; if they do not tne recent trip that I made all along that he would become an. May Sidetrack Clancy
eed extravagance of th-r -artv. The presidcnt wc are to,(li doC, mt'onR timft hu, has fina,, mad(. the nominate McDonald, the same old through New Mexico, I was not able active candidate only in the event . A,,"rncv '-cnrral Frank W. Clancy
And the entertainment might con.; ... ..i. ... . . m j r . . . t;j ,l r, . , . ,i.,,ii , ... . ... . . niav be numinated to succeed him-
... b jwish to occupy his mind with pol:- democratic leaders understand that record will defeat the other man, to f,"d m the Republican ranks anv a deadlock. He will be renominated
elude with a still picture of Wilson, jmt now..and besides there w he wi, no be a cand;date and wi and there you are. lopposition to returning Hernandez to for state auditor without opposition. ' '"' he n,;n,,"a,Cl! f"r th
McAdoo Simmons and Claude Kit- some pieces of ,cgisIation 1 not tap his bar1 bcyond a fair con.i The republicans are in an easy po-! Congress ; but at that time he had Malannias Martinez, of Taos seems W c""rt tr ,,c mav he id'
chin, and a phonographic record of . .--I. i. :. . . . . L:.:.- r. .u . .! !,-, .-.a.a .. .. . . tracked by the bosses, some of whom
, .. ... o- wis. its iu see cuaicu iii , iriuuiion ior ine partv s sake, t ut- 3'." i"c tH.iiiii tampain, anu " .ilmuucu at, q.nie certain to lie the nominee for .
these four worthies singing in .... . ...... .. ... ... I . . ... I.. . ... I :ui : ., , i do
..... inanv ill.l.tv.l UI ll.CI.1 ..I IHSjl.cy 13 WI5CI mill lllC QemOCrattC 11 1.,IIUVIB13 II I Kcl aWrty II Ulll
quartet
"We are the boys who hear
no noise,
When the voters loudly
roar."
From Wilson's Peace Address:
"With its (the war's) causes and ob
jects we are not concerned. The obs
cure fountains from which its stu
pendous flood has burst forth we are
speech of acceptance. I bosses supposed he was and is well,the'r record Las Cruces Citizen,
In other words, the session of Con-j aware of the fact that they would
gress is to be prolonged for some; like to get the handling of a fat
weeks, at a large daily cost to the
taxpayers in order to enable Mr. Wil
son to gather some material for a
speech. It is a costly method of
Cettiaf Old And Tiresome
The political bunk being handed ont
by Chairman, and would-be governor,
campaign fund. Since the refusal of
Putney they have been talking
Schuler, of Raton, who is believed, Ralph Ely, is getting on the nerves
to have a few shekels he is willing' of the good people of this state, and
securing) data for political eloquence-J to throw away on a try. Barth, it is1 one of the reasons is the evidence
-but we suppose the country will , reported, is not in a position to fi-! being presented by himself that while
hate to stand for it, nance a campaign.
i
possible nominee for the office of gov the state corporation
ernor.
not hesitate to express their de
commission. Jte ' , i,: n ,i.
i u it v ii ii in, vill UlC UllllldlJ,
nc CfritrAfl . 1:1.. .L. 1
r- "c lne 5P-,the attorney general's large personal
" 11 r t.t- e .
rllu' uoln ' tne HuDDeli- following and the confidence he holds
Fall For Keynote .Catron fight, and probably will be1 among the masses of the voters make
Senator A. B. Fall will be one of named without opposition. It is not other of the Republican leaders re-
Ihe is denouncing- the so-called bosses
me oeiegates trom utero county. It believed now that Secundino Romero
is declared that he will be the tern-, can muster enough strength to be a
porary chairman of the convention formidable candidate for any stae of.
and will deliver the keynote address.' fice, although the post of secret at y
He said to me just before he left' of state may be tendered him. This
New Mexico for Washington, that he leaves a clear field for the nomina-
luctant to count him, off the ticket.
Mr. Clancy is making no active cam
paign. He is following his usual pol
icy of permitting the situation to take
care of itself while he takes care of
his duties. El Paso Times.
