VOL. LXXX1II.
BRATTLEBOllO, FRIDAY, AUGUST 4, 191G.
NO.
31.
We Are Still Selling
Eddy Refrigerators
at
Old Price
Will Have to
Advance Price
Soon
Lot of Arlington Refrigerators
To Be Closed Out at 20 Per Cent Discount
The Wise Will Save Money by Buying Now
EMERSON & SON
Everything for Housekeeping
BRATTLEBORO
SAFETY
Factories, railroads, every place ami everybody is advocating Safo
ty nowadays. Why? Bccauso it is a vital consideration. With it accidents
are prevented, sickness diverted, and losses saved.
Wo liavo advocated SAFETY all along. Wo still beliovo in it strong
ly; in fact, it is SAFETY, accompanied with a high rato of interest,
that stands out in nil our securities. No customer lias lost a cent dur
ing our thirty years' of business, and we are anxious to continue this
record and negotiate our loans accordingly.
We beliovo in it too "SAFETY FIRST! "
VERMONT LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY
Capital $200,000.00 '
EASTERN OFFICE CROSBY BLOCK BRATTLEBORO, VERMONT
NO LOSSES TO INVESTORS!
Out of 1000 Bushels
of
SEED CORN
We Have Only a Limited
Amount Left,
Namely
Sanford
Longfellow
Red Cob
Pride of the North
Eureka
E. CROSBY & CO.
BRATTLEBORO, VT.
It's Up to You
If the children haven't been
photographed lately, have
The Shorey Studio
do it right
NOW
They'll Thank You Later On
103 Main St., Brattleboro.Vt
COME IN AND. LOOK OVER
THE NEWEST; AND
Latest Styles for Spring 1916
in Overcoatings, Suitings
and Trouserings
Suits, from $20 to $40
Trousers, from $ 5 to $12
Ilavo your clothes inndo FOR VOU
and tfot clothes that WII.I. FIT und
Blve sutlsructory Korvli'O,
Tho iHjstthuro Is In Tullnrlnir.
WALTER H. 1IAIGH
Custom Tailor Ktllul Street
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS can al
ways be had at right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street, Brattlcboro
R. G. BOYD
Mqnufncturcr of All Kinds of
Silos, Watering Troughs, Tanks
and Lock Joint Boxes
Also General Woodworking nndlllnckainlthlnir
WK8T IlllATTI.KllOUO. VT.
The Melrose Hospital
WEST BRATTLEBORO, VT.
Well e'liilnned for tho care of medi
cal, surgical and confinement cases, also
chronic invalids rheumatics, nervous ana
mild menial cases. Skilled nursing, good
food and icasonaulo rates.
nil. IS. H. LYNCH, supt,
Helena D. Mathews, Matron.
Moran&Rohde
Embalmers and Funeral Directois
Phone 351-W. S7 Main St., Iirntlltboro, Vt.
Vt. l.leeiiFO lOO-lKi. N. II. License 227.
Mn-saeliuesetts License 17U2
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, Mgr.
Dlue Itlblion CutrnHey flutter and Pure
bred Hull Calves for sale.
Visitors always welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Syrup.
Hammocks, Couches,
Croquet
-AT-
CLAPP & JONES'S
EXCLUSIVE UNDERTAKING
?Bonb $c &on
Embalmers
Automobile Berrlre Telephone 264-W
IlltATTLtlDOrtO VT.
Brattleboro Dry Cleaning
16 HIGH ST.
TELEPHONE 283-W
Sulla Pressed 50c
Sanitary Steam Pressed 75c
DRY CLEANED nnd Steam
Pressed $1.50
50c Extrn for Shino Removal.
MOST EVERYTHING CAN HE
DRY CLEANED
I Poverty breeds discontent, whereas a stir-
Jvv plus fund inspires confidence and confidence ttvj
Jm means success. Have ydu a surplus fund? fifXlf
IM One dollar is sufficient to start one at this bank. wMM
Poverty breeds discontent, whereas a sur
plus fund inspires confidence and confidence
means success. Have you a surplus fund?
One dollar is sufficient to start one at this bank.
u , i mmmwi
WANTED.
WANTED Mnn to mnho syrup. Ad
dress STANDARD BOTTLE WORKS,
Whlto lllvor Jimctlim, Vt. 21-tf
WANTED Ooocl second hand Kuril
touring fnr, cheap for rash: Kor Sale
.". beer cows. LOVKLL, Putney, Vt.
112-0.1
WANTED Wo want to list your prop
erty, no commission unless a salo Is
made. Wrlto or call. S. W. 13DOETT &
CO. EO-tf
SPECIAL NOTICES.
AUTO FOR SALE or exchnngo for
lumber. Address AUTO, care The I'hoo
nlx Oilier. 21-tf
CHIROPODY and Shampoo Parlors
witches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. MRS. K P. BAILKY, 117
Main St. Phone. 19-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING of all kinds
and chimney cleaning duno to order.
Ii. D. TOUItUY, GD Frost St., Brnttlcbo
ro. Tolephono 475-W.
LOST
Vermont Ravings Hank Hook No.
12111, issued January 21, 11)07. Any ln
Inrmiitlon concerning same shoulil be
sent to the above named bank.
Krnttlcboro, Vt., July 19, llllfi. 211-31
TO RENT.
TO RENT Tin ee-room tenement, com
pletely furnished, with bath. T. J.Tl'lt
NHIL 171 HUlot street. 32
NOTICE
SpecialTownMeeting
The lecal voters of the town of Vnnln-
boro are hereby iiotllled and warned to
meet at tno town hall In wiiiilslioro on
Wednesday, Aug. lfi, 1!)1C, at 1 o'clock p.
nl. to seo If the town will voto to main
tain or reopen a school In district No. 4
in WnrdHbnrii to begin with the fall term
ih Selitembor. next. 1U.
, . j',.-ir-nKXTKic&,iL- 1 '
IIUOU C. KITT8.
Wnrdsboro, Vt., Aug. 2, lDlfi.
For Sale Cheap
At the High School Building
SECOND-HAND SCHOOL DESKS
AND SEATS of various sizes.
Apply to
S. P. EAMES, 21 Crovo St.
Flowers
Wo sell first-class flowers at reason
able pricos. Also guarantco to put out
tho host design work for Funorals,
Weddings, etc.. of anybody in this lo
cality. Wo aro not following tho old
styles, but aro using all up-to-dato
methods. Wo fool sorry for people who
spend a lot of money for a nice thing
and get something entirely tunerent.
Thero is nothing too difficult for us to
mako, and do it right. When in neod,
glvo us your next order.
C. N. BOND
THE FLORIST
Phono 231-X 3 Locust Street
For Sale
At Less Than Cost of Construction
The now two-tenomont house on the cor
ner of Central and Highland street. This
house was completed last full: it Is strictly
modern; six rooms with each apartment;
separate entrances, separate cellars.
Also the cottage house faclnir Highland
street, six rooms, modem, built within a
few years. These houses will bo aold sep
arately or as a wholo. The location is
very desirable. Must be aold to settle an
estate. It will be to your advantago to Beo
us quickly about this property,
S. W. EDCETT & CO.
HELP WANTED
Goodell Pratt Co.
Makers of Mechanics' Tools
GREENFIELD, MASS.
Five or six young men on
our lathes, drilling machines,
and in our assembling de
partment. The big reward is -for
tlm man who nut only carries Iib mvn
ImrdenH nut who provider! tor mo ugui
i.iilmr of tlm IiiiiiIh nf uthel'H. l.lfu 111
uimiiu. In IiIh HiifcHt mcaqnnuvr. liiHtirt!
wlilln liiKiiriiblo. National l.lfu iiiHiinuico
Co., .Moiitpollur, vt. i.Miiuiiiij.
ALDERT C. LAIRD, Special Afjent
Abbott Dlock, Drattleboro Vt.
I.....-.....I.I...M...I..I
FOR SALE.
FOR SALE -Pair heavy work horses.
Will oxihnnge for stock. A. I.. MILLKH,
vermin, VI. 30-32
FOR SALE Two hehvv work mnrpn!
inso uico lop uuggy. u. uiioiiT,
Nuwfane, Vt. .. 27-32
FOR SALE llnv
liorso, 8 yours old;
sound nnd n good driver; also ono new
carriage, express wagon una harness, a
N. HO.ND, 3 Locust St. Tel. 231-X. 15-tf
FOR SALE Horses. Wo urrlvcd Aug.
4 with 31 head, !I50 to 1,000. Several
pairs ,HM) to 3,200 and .a lot of single
horses and mates. They nic all out of
work, little thin nnd coats u little sun
burned, but will provoi-fiood and go to
work. All noises warranted ns repre
sented. orii.Koun & wood nou.su
n .. ! . J. wood. Prop,, snelhurno Kalis,
Mass. . 32-33
CASEMENT PAYS PENALTY.
Former Knight, Convicted of High
Treason, Hanged Yesterday Morning
Went to His Death with Courage
RoRpr Casement, former British
knight nnd consul, wnsjiauued nt 0
1 ; If'.' ... i, t
u uucu j vniviuiiy iiiunurif; in 1110 x on
tonvillo iail for liiirh tr(Tnsoii. '
t'aseincnt was convicted ofconsiiiring to
cause an aimed revolt in Ireland nnd with
liaviiic KoiiL'ht (Jerinnn aul to tliat end.
The last words of tho condemned man
apart fiom his piavers were. "I die for mv
country." (.'aseincnt mc his death with
calm I'om-.iL'e, accordine Jo evo witnesses.
Immediately after the, execittioil tluee
notices were posted on 'the nriaon ikwir.
Tiio first siKiicd by tlio under sheriff of
London, the Governor ol the -nriaon nnd
Father James MeCarrelll Casement' con
fessor, read: "Judgmcii qf 'dcatli wag
this day executed on "llOfOC I'&vXiCaWf
iiit-in. in nm. iiiajraiy.ww-iwijAtyvilii
in oursrCbenco." "
,Vut JnmcH fcCnrrelJ, wlio attended
Casement durinc the hunglnc. told a rep
lesentntivo of tliu Associnted Press thnt
tlie condemned mun mot his death cour
ageously. "Casement went to his dentil'
like a bravo and hold man," said. Father
ucinrreii. -.1 list uctoro tlio lilnclc cap
was adjusted lie stood forwaid boldly
erect and said in a clear, distinct voice,
"Into thy hands, O Lord, I commit my
spirit." Then still standing at bis full
lieiclit lie added, "Jesus, lcceive my soul."
The trap was sprung at ono minute after
0 o'clock and Casement was pronounced
dead nt 9.09. According to tho custom in
such cases his body will bo buried in quick
lime in the prison yaui.
Aecmding to one news agency Casement
had high hopes of being lepticved until
the evening of his execution. He did not
hide the fact that lie expected his many
powerful fiiends would obtain for him a
fiee p.uihm. because many of them exer
cised no little influence in political as well
as literal- chclcs.
"As tlieie was no sign of icpiievc last
night," this account says, "the condemned
man became veiy morose nnd hnidly spoke
at all. lie did, however, inipiiie about the
Zeppelin i aids and asked if any flerman
ausliips had i cached Ixmdon. r-oou alter
wauls he became lesigned to his fate and
after he had done n considerable amount
of writing he retiied to rest and slept
soundly."
At the inquest the governor of the pris
on nnd the chief warden testified that
eath wbh instantaneous. Dr. Mander was
asked by Solicitor Duffy whether there
was any tiuth in the statement published
that C asement had been insane in chains.
He leplicil: "I saw no evidence nf insan
ity. He acted in a sane manner to the
ml."
Roger ('asement served the lltitish gov
ernment with distinction for yeais ns con
sul and consul-general in Afiicnn nnd
South American ports, nnd for this service
was knighted. Ho investigated the atioci
ties peipetiated by rubber hunteiH upon
natives in the Congo and South America,
nnd he headed a commission which
hi might about icforms.
He was in Ameiica when tho war
stinted, and issued a letter calling on Irish
men to lemaiii neutral. He went to Nor
way, nnd thence to Ueilin. Just before
the outbreak of the Irish lebellion Kaster
week a Ociman steamship laden with
nuns went to the coast of Ireland, accom
panied by a siibmaiine. with I asement
aboard. He was arrested soon after land
ing. Charges were also mado that while
in Oeiiuany ho endeavored to have Irish
men eaptmeil by tho Hermans ngut
against the llritish.
He was tried in June, found guilty of
high tieason and sentenced to death. King
fieorge issued an older i evoking his hon
ors. Casement made a stirring speech
when sentence was passed upon him, deny-
ing in. ii ne nan woikcii hi nummi.., n in
terests or that be had accepted Oeimnn
cold.
Casement's friends urircd in Ids belmlt
that years in the tropics had affected his
mind, llo was born Sept. 1, IK'"-
The longest steel nrch brhlgo In tho
world Is tin, reenlltlv completed 0110
over Hell (Into, Kast river, New York.
it nns n span of i,uuu jcci uumi-uu
thu nliiiliiii.il inwem. n clear height
of I3!5 feet nnd a total height of UOU
feet above the mean high waior.
TWELVE PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 1, 1010.
THE VERMONT PHCENIX
Published In Brattlcboro eiery Friday.
SODSCniPTION PIUCB 1.50 A YEAH,
$1.00 for eight months; 75 cent) for alx
mciitlu; SO cent! for four months; 40 cents
for three months. All subscriptions are pay
able strictly In advance, and all papers aro
stopped promptly at their expiration unless
the subscriptions are renewed.
Kates of display advertising furnished on
application. Small classified advertisements,
10 cents per line first Insertion, five cents per
line each subsequent insertion.
(Entered at the Drattleboro post office as
second class mall matter.)
Windham county will have a lively light
in the piimnrics over the nomination of
Mate senatois. The candidates nie Hen-
in E. Eddy of Brattlebom, Xntt L.
Divoll of Rockingham, who was scnafor
two years ago, John II, W'aie of Towns
IipikI and V. A. DcWitt of Xewfane. All
nic cxpei ienced legislators with good rcc-
oiils.
It is undoubtedly tt tic, ns stated by
l'tesident Samuel .fiompers of the Ameri
can Fedoiation of l-'ibor, that never be-
fine in the history of the woild were so
many people employed at such high wages
and under such excellent conditions as is
tho case in the United States today. Hut
what is the reason? An immense number
of men nie employed in the United States
because millions of men in Europe have
been taken out of the industiial employ'
ment to engage in the desti active em
ployment of war. We nie perfouning pro
ductive wmk for them while they are en
gaging in destruction. Moieover, the war
has shut off immigration and caused thou
sands of foieign hoi n lesidents of Amor
icn to go home, with the net result of ie-
ducing our population I,2."i0,000 below what
it would have been under normal cond
lions.
Democratic leaders in congress find
little consolation in a review of election
figuics in the so-called "doubtful" states
With Republicans and Progressives united
nndtw'rirkine in linrmonv. it.ig-littlo .Won
UfriTiy'vihRiiUp'ojir withldein'air,
The combined votes of these two parties
is enough to give Democrats the cold
tihivcrs. For instance, in Indiana in 1012,
the Republican nnd Progressive vote was
313,274, while the' Democratic voto was
5Sl,8Sn iii Illinois 010,011 against 40.1,048
Democratic, in Ohio fiOO.aO.'I ngainst 432,132
Democratic, Michigan 300,823 ngainst
11)0,751 Democratic, Minnesota 193,190
against 100,420 Demociatic, XebinBka
127,124 against 10S.109 Democratic, Iowa
281,594 against 182,370 Democratic, Xcw
Yoik 845,410 against 053,470 Democratic,
Xew Jetsey 231,215 against 178.2S0 Demo
cratic. This is what Wilson leaders are
up against and they know it.
"My visit to tho Philippine Is
lands," says foriner-Gov. David I.
Walsh of Massachusetts, "was n re
velation to me. I did not think it
possible that such a great work could
be accomplished by the government in
the short space of 1." years. One of the
grentest pages of American 'history has
been written through America's devel
opment of tho islands, nnd no Ameri
can can visit them without being proud
of his citizenship." Here wo get, from a
Democratic source, a hnndsomo tributo
to tho efficiency of tho Republican ad
ministration of the islands, and nn in
direct rebuko for tho Democratic
"scuttle and run" policy. The great
work accomplished in the last fifteen
yenrs must bo carried to completion
before the United States can with
honor and safety lay down its burden.
To nbnnilou tho task now would be
cowardly, dishonorable nnd calamitous.
It appears that theio nre still n few peo
plo who do not understand the direct
piimary nnd patticularly Uh telntinn to
the senatorial contest, says the' Benning
ton Banner. Tho chief point is that the
nomination this year is to lie made by di
rect vote instead of by convention. The
primary takes place on Tuesday, Sept. 12,
On that day every voter has the privilege
of going to the regular polling place in
his town nnd voting for who he wants ns
the candidate of his party. In the senu
torship matter the three names, Page,
Fletcher nnd Gates, will be on the Repub
lican bnllot nnd every voter of thnt party
can voto for his choice for tho ofiicc of
United Stntes senator. The one who gets
the most votes will be the Republican
nominee nnd his name will nppenr ns tho
Republican candidate on the ballot nt the
general election in November. The paity
candidates for governor, member of con
gress, stnte nnd county officers will bo
chosen in the same way by direct vote in
stead of by caucus nnd convention. This
putting of the nnniiuatiims in tho hands
of tho voters is why the senatorial candi
dates and otheis nie putting their case
directly befoio the people instead of try
ing merely to get tho help of tho politi
cians ns in pievious campaigns. Kvery
voter has a clinnce to voto directly for
the candidates of his choice under the di-
icct piiimiiy law.
BARBER AND TOWN AGREE.
Each Party to Fay Half of Cost of
Building Retaining Wall Building to
Bo Finished by Jan. 1.
Attorney General Herbert U. Hnr-
bcr.'is confident that tho bids for tho
construction of Mi new business build-
ii ir on Main Htrcct, which are to be
opened Saturday, will come within the
estimate that has been nmdo of tho
probnblo cost. Although the cost of
buihlini; materials has risen in leaps
and bounds in tho last few months the
estimates of the nrchitcct on tho cost
of the building have been made so re
cently that it is thought tho estimates
bv tho contractors will not exceed his.
Tho contract will cnll for tho com
pletion of the entire building by Jan
uary 1, 1917, which means that with
the award of tho contract it will bo
necessary to push the work of building
as rapidly ns possible.
Unless tho coin rue t should not he
awarded now the selectmen will bo re
llovcd of their troubles nbout tho
Main street retaining wall along the
front of tho property of Mr. Barber.
They havo hesitated about undertak
ing tho grading nnd straightening of
Main street nt thnt point bccauso ot
the expense of tho retaining wall. They
have a verbal agreement with Mr.
Dnrbcr thnt when he builds on the.
property the town and Mr. Barber
eicli will )ny half the cost of the
construction of the wall, which would
servo the joint purposes of a retaining
Wall for the street and a foundation
wnll for the front of the building.
With tho assurance that Mr. Barber in
nils to build this summer and fall
tho seloctmen will be enabled to mnko
start on the Main street work with
tho knowledge that one-half of the
heavy expense of the wall Is to be
met bv Mr. Bnrber, thereby saving the
town considerable expense.
(Jn l-lnt street, where the town is en
gnged in laving sidewalks and pro
paring to pave tlio widened street,
Contractor D. T. Perry's men are lay
ing n wnll along the end of the Barber
property to hold the inside curbing oi
the sidewalk. Mr. Barber says that a
delay of a few weeks on that particular
bit of work would have enabled tho
town to use his south foundation wall
instead of being forced to build one.
Divoll for tho Senate.
Kditor of The Vctmont Phoenix:
1 wish to inform the citizens of Wind
ham' county, tbiough The Phoenix, that I
am a candidate for tc-clection to the state
senate.
In my announcement two years ago,
stated ithat mv nolicv would bo fewer
Iawh, snorter Ression,fcandv cconomyac
fnvitVDiddinotuimpairhr-fservlcisVot'
the people. I was'clcctcd nnd mnde eveiy
effort to earn- out tho trust that had been
placed upon me, lieing present nt every
morning, nftcrnoon or evening session.
The records show that in 1912, 537 bills
were passed;' in 1015, only 3S0; the lengtl:
of the session of 1012, 110 days; in 1915
only 88 days. As a member of the com
mittee on final adjournment I did my
part to contribute to this result.
line no stop backward was taken in
the liberal policy of our state toward her
institutions economy was practiced nnd
the people weie relieved of the burden of
a special tax. I am opposed to incorpor
ating into our laws measures which are
sure to be repealed at a following session.
It takes time nnd is a waste of the state s
money. However, it elected, 1 will give
my heat ty suppoit to all measures that I
consider for the best inteiests of our
county nnd state.
1 believe it possible to accomplish the
woik of the coming session in 70 days or
less and lcpiesentatives should be elected
with thnt point in view. Wo should keep
in mind the state's duty to the families of
her p.itiiotic sons who are doing duty nt
the front. We should continue our policy
for better roads, especially the secondary
lines nnd those of the imal districts, nnd
we should conserve our natural lesoutccs
of every kind.
I shall appreciate the support of those
who are in sympathy with these policies.
XATT h. DIVOLL.
Rockingham, August 2.
(JEN. OARRANZA TO RETIRE.
To Bo Presidential Candidate Gon
zales to Succeed Him.
Gen. Cnrrnnza is to retire as first
chief of tho do facto government of
Mexico soon nnd will bo succeeded by
Gen. Pablo Gonzales, according to in
formation given out by Mexicnn ad
ministrative circles in Nuevo Laredo
last night.
Gen. Carranzn will enter the field as
a presidential candidate nt the forth
coming general election, it was said
yosterdny, apparently confirming re
cent unofficial advices from Mexico
City which intimated that the first
chief would seek elevation to tho pres
idency at tho hands of the voters,
Tip to Correspondents.
(Randolph Herald.)
In moro than twenty-five years of
editing country newspaper correspond
once, wo havo found tho following
short list of common words misspelled
more often than any others:
Bouquet,
Niece,
Receive, '
Occasion,
Precedo,
Judgment.
If, in looking over copy, theso words
nre spelled correctly, wo don't bother
much nbout tho othors.
Infantile Paralysis Rages Unchecked.
Tho Infantile pnralysis epidemic in
New York rages unchecked nnd yester
day nt 10 o'clock 217 now cases, moro
than at any other time in 24 hours, had
been reported. In tho snmo porlod
42 deaths took place. Many of tho now
cases aro lu the borough of Manhattan.
ESTATE NOW IN CASH
Bradley Estate Transferred to
Members of Bradley Family
R
M. Bradley Buys Home Place
Consideration Was $60,700 John
Dorr Bradley Takes West Rivor Farm.
The trustees of the llraillev estnte have
transferied nil of the leal estnte which
constituted the trust under the will of the
Into Snrnh A. . Bradley, widow of Rich-
awls Bradley. The deeds show that the
consideration paid for the property was
nearly $100,000 nnd it has been conveyed
under the nuthority of tho will of Mrs.
Urndley nnd a license to sell gianted to
tlio trustees by the pi obate-court, through
a scties of eight deeds, to members of tho
Hrndley family. Ihe deeds, including thnt
poition bought by Oeorge ('. A vend and
others associated with him. lenorted
esterday, icqiiiied $128 in revenue stamps.
Under the will of Mis. Bindley it was
iiovided that the homo place on Putney
oad should bo offered to her children in
the order of their seniority nnd Iiichaids
M. Bindley, being the oldest, took it.
John Doir Bindley bought the West River
fat m and two parcels of leal estate in,
Diimmcistoii.
The propel ty was sold to rediire the
trust to cash to. be administeied in accor-
lance with the provisions of the will, and
the pui chasers paid to the tiustecs tho
appraised valuation of the several proper
tics. The consideration paid for the home
place was 10,,IH) and for the West River
faun ami the two parcels in Dummcrston
$.'1S,370.
The home place was transferred under
the will nnd the other properties under
the license to sell granted by the piobato
eonit. Rirhauls M. Bradley, after obtain
ing the title of the home place, transferred
directly to Geoige C. Avcrill and others,
the southwestern portion of the homo
place, including the white cottage on
North stieet. The property purchased bv
Mr. Averill and his associates, which in
cludes the Katon property, is that which
was opened nnd developed by niter C.
Piper, Inc., of Detioit, Mich., this spring.
ine papers completing one ot the laig-
est leal estnte deals in the history of Brat
tleboro ate from the ofiicc of Chaso &
Chase.
NEWS IN BRIEF.
.525,000,000 Loss by Explosion.
A terrible disaster took placo early
Sunday morning nt BJack Tom pier near
Jersey City when enormous, supplies 6
inunUlonB nwnHlng Sliliimont-to'tlio'en-'-tento
allies exploded. A dozen or nio'ro
large storehouses wero destroyed and
tho effect of tho shock was felt for
moro than 00 miles. Flames broko out
at many points and were subdued by
firemen with difficulty. It is known
that four lives wero" lost nnd several
persons aro missing. In addition 35 to
40 people aro sull'ering from injuries.
Thousands of tons of shrapnel shells
exploded, causing damage at Bedloo's
island nnd Ellis island in Ney York har
bor. For a long distance in both Brook
lyn nnd Manhattan windows were
smashed and property otherwise dam
aged. It is estimated that the total loss
from the explosion will oxeced $25,
000,000. Russians Threaten Entiro Teuton Line.
Tho Russian drive on tho eastern
front continues to bo the great feature
of the Kiiropean war. It now threatens
to wreck the entire Teutonic line south
of the Pinsk marshes. In tho lighting
Friday the Russians claimed to havo
captured 400 officers and 20,000 men.
Tho capture of tho city of Brody gave
tho Cz.ar's soldiers important ndvantngo
in their advance toward Lcmborg. Tho
Russinns on their fields south of tho
Dniester and in the Caucasus have been
successful.
The British and French have' made
somo slight gains, but nothing of vital
importance has taken placo on tho line
in northern France.
Mexican Bandits Killed.
A small party of Mexican bandits,
five to ten men, crossed tho Rio Grnndo
fivo miles below Fort Hancock Monday,
tho object of their raid evidently being
tho capture of horses. They wero dis
covered by men of troop F, 8th cnvnlry,
and in n tunning engagement moro than
200 shots were exchanged. All tho bnn.
dits were killed and one trooper and n
United HtaU's customs inspector wero
killed and another trooper was serious
ly wounded. On Wednesdny tho 8th
cnvnlry was hurried to points near Fort
Hnncock nnd Finlny, Texas, in answer
to a report that SO to 175 Mexicans had
crossed the border. It proved later that
this report was without foundation.
Deutschland on Homeward Voyage.
Tho German submarine Deutschland
left the port nt Baltimore Tuesday
night and on Wednesdny night passed
tho A'irginia capes at high speed nnd
then submerged. It is believed that the
submarine safely eluded tlio French
nnd English warships which havo been
patrnllng tho Virginia coast a long
time.
Ho Waa Doubly Welcome.
The new minister was invited out to
supper. He was a bachelor, und when ha
helped himself to the biscuits for the third
time he looked across the table nt tho
hostess's littlo girl. "I don't often have
Biich n good supper ns this, my dear," ho
said in his most propitiatory tone. "We
don't either," said the littlo girl smiling.
"I'm awful glad you came." The Chris
tian Herald.
Almost overv known variety of iron
I or is found in Nowf ouudlaud.
