First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. JULY 28, 1916.
NUMBER 23
'"-
Work On Two Hotels
For Wailuku Begins
Much Building Activity On Maui At
' W Present Maui Drygoods To En
largeNew Store On Market Street
Work was begun this week on the
new Grand Hotel to be built at the
corner of Ma'n and Church streets,
Wailuku. The old Lyons building It.
being removed and work has begun on
the foundations by J. I'icanco, who
has the contract for the masonry
work. The contract for the super
structure has been let to a Japanese
firm on Market street. The new build
ing is to cost, complete, except for
furniture, between $22,000 and $23,000
and Is to bo finished by the middle of
November.
Much Building In Progress
A building boom is on Maul at the
present time, despite the soaring pri
ces of materials . Besides the Grand
Hotel, work Is already well under
way for the new main building of the
Wailuku Hotel, which is to cost about
$10,000. On Market street, Wailuku,
three new buildings are going up at
present. Two are on the makat side
of the street on nronertv owned hv the
Ahulii estate, and will be occupied by
tne stores ol Y. Uchida and K. Kawa
hara respectively. On the onnoslto
side of the street a two story structure
nas Deen started which will be used
as a Japanese hotel. These buildings
replace oia shacks which had outlived
their usefulness.
Radical changes are being made in
iue mauica nair or the postofflce build
lng. formerlv ncmntpH w it r-..i.
1 "j ... x. v . . i .
ett as a law office, but which will sooh
do tanen possession of as the dental
offices of Dr. Geo. S. AlkeD
Dr. William Osmers is also to have
a new office In a building to be con
structed in the vacant lot just makai
his-present office site . The building
now occupying is to be moved
back from the stret and converted In
to a cottage. These properties are
owned by W. T. RohinRnn
An unusual amount of work is also
In progress on all of the plantations of
Maul In way of building, and the coun
ty nas a numoer or school structures
under way. The new Baldwin Menmr
lal church Is employing quite a force
oi men, ana work will probably begin
before long on the new Maui High
School building, at Hamakuapoko,
which is to be built largely from priv
ate funds.
Maui Drygoods To Enlarge
A sub-lease has been made by the
Grand Hotel Company of the fine lot
on the mauka corner of Church and
Main streets, directly opposite the
hotel location, and also just across
Main Btreet, from the First National
Bank, to the Maui Drygoods & Grocery
Company. It is understood that the
mercantile company will shortly erect
a $3000 Btore building which will be
used as a furniture department annex
of the main store. It has a lease for
25 years on the property, which was
leased in the first instance from T. B.
Lyons by the Grand Hotel Company.
-
Mrs. McConkey Is Given
Farewell Reception
Mrs. Wilbur F. McConkey, who
leaves shortly for the mainland to be
away for at least several years, was
the guest of honor at a most pleasant
reception given by the Ladies' Aid
Society at the Pala Community House,
last Tuesday afternoon from 3 to 5 o'
clock. Several hundred friends of the
popular and beloved matron assem
bled during the afternoon. The main
hall of the Community House had been
arranged in drawing-room effect, with
rugs, tables, and cozy-corners, and
shaded lights cast a soft glow over the
pretty scene. The artistic decorations
were the work of Mrs. J. T. Fantom
and Miss Mosser. During the after
JVnoon choice refreshments consisting
of ice-cream, cake and delicious punch
were served.
While the reception was in progress,
a handsome suit-case, a steamer rug,
and a substantial remembrance were
delivered at Mrs. McConkey's home,
as a surprise, for use on the journey,
and at the journeys' end.
Mrs. McConkey with her children,
John Ross and Virginia, expect to
leave by the August transport, to be
followed later by Dr. McConkey.
. PIONEER INCREASES CAPITAL
As was anticipated, the sharehold
ers meeting of the Pioneer Mill Com
pany, held in Honolulu last Friday, ap
proved the plan of the directors for
increasing the capital stock of the
company to $5,000,000 by a stock divi
dend of $1,000,000. It was announced
that the company will continue to pass
dividends of 2 percent monthly as
heretofore. The stockholders also
authorized the listing of the compan
ies' shares in San Francisco and this
is likely to be done shortly.
New Magistrate For Hana.
Governor Pitikham on Wednesday
signed a commission appointing How
ard Palakiko as district magistrate
for Hanr,.
i
Weather Bureau May Have
Station On Haleakala
If the ambition of U. S. Weather
Observer A. M. Hamrick, now on Maul
for the first time, can be made a real
ity, a permanent meteorological stat
ion will be established on the summit
of Haleakala, and careful records kept
by some competent person. Dr. Ham
rick, who has been in charge of the
weather bureau work in Honolulu for
something more than a year, believes
that much valuable data might be se
cured by such a station data that
could be secured from no other locat
ion. The Maul cbnmber of commerce has
been planning to put a permanent
care-taker' for the rest house on the
mountain once more, and it is quite
possible that a man might be found
qualified to combine both jobs. Presi
dent R. A. Wadsworth of the chamber
expects to take the matter up with
Dr. Hamrick with this end in view.
Maui's Tax Payments More
Than Half A Million
Territorial Auditor Fisher has made
public the total collection of taxes for
the fiscal year ended June 30, last. In
all, the taxpayers of the Islands paid
into the coffers of Hawaii $3,722,742.07.
Of this sum the city of Honolulu paid
$2,118,967.78; Maui, 597.263.65; Hawaii
$659,906.44, and Kauai, $346,604.20.
Maul's share is distributed as fol
lows: School fund Territory, $81,669.
27; county, $270,715.18; road, $30,
963.12; special school fund, county,
$23,451.05; expense collecting taxes,
$15,384.80; interest on bonds, $22,113.
23; sinking fund, $14,792.60.
H. W. Rice Buys Cornwell
Ranch For $250,000
The Cornwell ranch containing 35,
000 acres has been sold by A. M.
Brown and Mrs. Blanche Walker to
Harold W. Rice, at a consideration be
lieved to be $250,000. The purchaser
gains direct ownership to 10,000 acres,
25,000 acres in leaseholds and 3000
to 3500 head of cattle. Mrs. Walker's
interest has been held in the name of
Walter F. Dillingham and R. W. At
kinson. During the past year Rice has pur
chased a large number of pieces of
land in the Makawao region, including
the 1000 acre ranch of the Ferreira es
tate, and he is probably now the larg.
est individual land owner on Maul.
BOYS' BABY BEEF CLUBS.
Changes in the beef industry have
resulted in the organization in various
States of boys' baby beef clubs. A
number of State agricultural colleges
are now arranging, in cooperation.
with the department, baby beef shows
and contests to be held in the fall
This movement originated in Texas,
where it has proved so successful that
the Texas Baby Beef Club now has a
membership of more than 1200.
This pioneer club was organized to
encourage the fattening of more cattle
in Texas. For many years Texas had
raised feeder cattle, but instead of
fattening them on home-grown milo,
kafir, and feterita, the farmers of the
State had sent them to the feed lots
of the corn belt. This, it . was felt
was a mistake. By the efficient use of
economical feed to produce high-grade
calves without loss of milk fat into
highly finished, maturely formed year
lings, known as baby beeves, it was
believed that profitable returns could
be secured to Texas cattle feeders.
In order to popularize the product
ion of baby beef, therefore, a prom
inent breeder in Coleman county start,
ed a baby beef contest among the
farm boys. The boys purchased their
calves by giving notes payable when
the calves were marketed as baby
beef. The idea proved successful from
the first, and the Annual Boys' En
campment and Baby Beef Contest,
held at Fort Worth under the aus
pices of the National Feeders' and
Breeders' Show, has increased each
year in attendance and exhibits . Last
March 300 boy feeders of pigs and
baby beeves gathered to receive in
struction and to show their stock.
Over 100 well-finished baby beeves of
excellent type were exhibitd.
In a number of the classes the boys
competed with their calves against
older and more experienced feeders.
Twenty ribbons were won in these cla-
sess by club members. Three brothers
from Clay County won two firsts and
two seconds, and one of these broth
ers also obtained the grand champion
ship in the competition among club
members only.
According to the custom at fat-
stock shows, the cattle were sold in
the open market. The boys' stock
brought a price averaging alove the
top of the regular market, the extra
price being justified by the quality of
the carcasses. On the hoof the cattle
weighed about 850 pounds per head,
and the dressing percentage was 60.8.
PRESSURE HEAVY ON
ALL TEUTON FRONTS
Russians Drive Turks From Central Armenia
America Enters Protest To Blacklist Methods
Bomb Outrage In San Francisco
HONOLULU, July 28 All courts adjourned following report of
Attorney J. Alfred Maroon's death. Flaps flown at half mast.
Rapid Transit will start at once on extension. Grows weary of
fooling with Governor and on strength of supreme court's decision will
increase capital . Additional paid up stock issue to he authorized will
provide $392,500 for King St. betterments and much other work.
Supervisors will not have such sport as cock fighting for sake of
common decency and morals.
Board of Health urges the abandonment of Nuuanu reservoir and
taking over of artesian wells.
Manoa bond issue appeal now filed with supreme court. Far
reaching questions to be decided soon.
Marconi service reopened in Europe. Messages will now be ac
cepted for Germany and Austria.
PARIS, July 28 Reserves are swarming at hard pnesses German
line. Teutonic powers practically abandon Balkan front to reinforce
crumbling positions on east and west . French and British continue
their drive. Russians press onward in all directions.
NEW YORK, July 28 Treatment suggested by savant of
Rockefeller institute brings results here. (Infantile paralysis?)
El PASO, July 28 Carranzis,ta soldiers are chasing outlaws.
lista bandits said to be headed towards border.
WASHINGTON, July 28 Terrific wave of heat sweeps over
mainland. All states east of Rocky Mountains afflicted and wave
threatens Pacific coast . Kansas and Nebraska literally burned by sun.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 2S Coast police fasten bomb outrage
upon labor forces . Ex-convict identified by San Francisco woman as
mysterious suit-case man and then union men are apprehended. Thom
as Mooney among those arrested .
of McNamaras of Eos Angeles Times explosion taken also . Thomas
Ryan and Antone Fedoni yield damaging evidence.
BALTIMORE, July 27 Deutchland still lingers . May
dash for sea from Chesapeake coast
WASHINGTON, July 28 Blacklist may be met in kind.
sent toGreat Britain demands modification of Entente policy.
SAN DIEGO, July 28 Capt. Culvert sends wireless messages dur
ing his long flight.
WASHINGTON, July 27 Uncle Sam's answer to British black
listing is a sharply worded protest which Ambassador Page is directed to
convey to the British foreign office. The note was drawn up after i
conference between the President, Counsellor Polk, and other adminis
tration advisers. Has already been
public in full on Monday .according
given for the British government to
LONDON, July 27 Heavy fighting is again the order of the day
on the wtest front, particularly that portion held by British troops where
Sir Douglas Haig endeavors to move forward. Throughout all last
night British continued to press Germans at various points of the Som
me sector. There was severe hand to hand fighting in which British
claim some successes . Enemy at this point is using gas shells which
irritate eyes so much that men in
BERLIN, July 27 During the day British made several attacks
with hand grenades in region around Pozieres but were invariably re
pulsed. South of the Somme French made attack today in consider
able force, but Germans trained machine guns on infantry and broke
down offensive. Aeroplane successfully bombarded Marieham, naval
base on Russian Baltic coast, used jointly by British and Russians. Ger
man flier returned unscathed after several hits on buildings which have
constituted base. From this place
at ing on Baltic.
LONDON, July 27 Norwegian
Juno toredoed in North Sea .No casualties reported.
HONOLULU, July 27 Great Northern run permanent ,a possi
bility. Board of Health objects to ruling rendered by United States body
for discontinuance of inspection on vessels coming here from mainland
A protest was entered after meeting held last month . '
Movie company due to arrive in Hawaii soon. Seth Moyle cables
that Aloha Film Company leaves Los Angeles August 1.
Great railroad strike appears sune to come. Advices received by J.
K. Butler, freight traffic manager of Oahu Railway forecasts much
trouble on mainland.
HONOLULU, July 27 Legal department of city raids big gam
bling den. Acting city attorney, public prosecutor and Advertiser re
porter do police duty. Detective department asleep at the switch . 52
Chinese are taken into custody while McDuffy does nothing.
Lure of Hawaii follows tourists to sea . Messrs. Crane andWood
who have boen visiting here, send alohas from Matsonia.
Garrison post to have schools for men of army . Hawaiian de
partment takes steps under direction of Washington . New law pro
vides for much better training. Trade and vocational classes to pre
pare soldiers for return to civil life.
Congress is liberal with appropriations affecting Hawaii ,is report
of Correspondent Walker. Mone measures passed for territory than
by any similar body since annexation.
Contractor Ritchie files his security bonds for $187,000 for work in
-Manoa. Manoa will have much improvement.
Ad Club members will devote a mweting to civic affairs .
Government's plan to make forest reserve of Round Top meets
with approval ,
PARIS, July 27 Germans lose Pozieres to British .thereby open
ing direct road to big railroad junction point of Bapaume. Russians
hammer hole in Leniberg defenses. Grand Duke Nicholas reports fall
of Erzingan after a surprise attack and the clearing Turks out of cen
tral Armenia.
HONOLULU, July 27 J. Alfred Magoon, prominent Honolulu
lawyer nnl ts death in tragical fall. Plunges from bridge in Baltimore
and is killed. Was well known as legal counsellor and promoter of
amusement enterprises . Details of
WASHINGTON, July 26 Extra pay to be eiven for dutv on bor
der. Senate adopted amendment
while on line.
the
Vil-
Edward Nilan, Ben Levin, friend
make
Note
cabled to London. It will be made
to announcement, the time Hung
receive it.
trenches are temporarily blinded.
British submarines have been ojer
sailing vessels Bams Siedried and
death lacking.
giving soldiers forteing rate of pay
Pineapple Company Will
Extend County Belt Road
An extension of the re-located belt
road beyond the Kuiaha homesteads,
for a distance of several miles, is
soon to be commenced by the Haiku
Fruit & Packing Company. The coun
ty supervisors agmed to a proposition
from the pineapple company to this
effect at its last meeting, and as soon
as the survey can be accurately deter
mined, work will begui. The company
is willing to undertake the expense be
cause of a large quantity of pineapple
land which will soon come into bear
ing and which the road will make aid
In marketing.
The county engineer In conjunction
with the loan fund engineering force,
and the engineers of the Kahului rail
road have been busy on the project
during the past week. The railroad
has been brought Into the matter be
cause of a right of way which it holds
for the extension of its lines in that
district. The extended road will be a
part of the cut-off which will ultimate
ly cut out several almost prohibitive
hills in the vicinity of Peahi, and
shorten the distance between Kuiaha
and Kakipi gulch by about 3 miles.
WASHINGTON, July 27 British cruiser forces American navy
to protect Teuton submarine . Allies' warship sailed into Chesapeake
bay and ties up near the Deutchland . Under-sea freighter secures
clearance papers, but following appearance of enemy at Baltimore,
Capt. Koenig fails to sail and talks indefinitely.
LONDON, July 27 Entente black-list declared domestic but for
eign diplomats in London declare that this attitude cannot hold.
-PETROGRAD, July 26 Erzingan, in central Armenia, captured
by Slav forces. With capture of this fortress Turks are cleared from
Armenia, it is reported. Russians on east front gaining further suc
cesses, continuing their drive in southern Volhynia, pressing back Teu
tons near Slonevka river. Great losses inflicted upon retiring forces.
Serious reverse nearly sustained by right wing of Russian army which
has been campaigning in right region. Gen. von Hindenberg's army
made sudden slashing attack near Riga and nearly succeeded in pene
trating Russian front line but Germans were finally compelled to retreat.
More than 4000 German prisoners taken .
LONDON, July 26 Gen. Sir Douglas Haig, commanding British
campaign in France succeeded in capturing Pozieres. Capture of this
point gives British domination of highest hill overlooking plateau
where Germans have established themselves in fortified line.
Dispatch from Algiers says that British steamer Olive has sunk
without casualties.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 26 American vessels between this city
and Hawaii are relieved of necessity of quarantine. Stoppage of
Doctor's examination is by order from Washington received today.
HONOLULU, July 26 Wood's report said to be favorable to big
hotel project . St. Francis' manager says start dejends ujxhi transport
ation and good roads. It is understood that 2 local men will be dir
ectors. A site at the beach may be selected .
Suit to compel accounting is to be brought by the Attorney-general's
office to ask Rapid Transit company what becanle of profits ..
HONOLULU, July 26 James Wood, manager of the San Francis
Hotel, tells how to get tourists here. Says better odean service and
roads are necessary. Islands have climate and scenic wonders but
need modern and ample accommodations.
Kalakua avenue work will proceed. SujK-rvisors decide to use
squegee" surface and push improvement to completion.
Deemed convict, John Ryan, not wanted in California, or Austral
ia, fights with Capt. Iaukea ,of police ,on wharf, but proves no match
for officer. Is taken aboard the Sierra much the worse for wear and
tear.
Governor shies at Japanese question in national guard
Ameincan born Japanese might join
aiuvsiciis . ii.u ks nacK to nuances
?ecretary Matsuzawa, of Japanese Y. M. C. A. advises
to become peace advocates.
,. A .G ' J y 2 Grcat wave of Protest strides at black
list of Britain. bile federal government awaits details of British boy
cott, commercial concerns organize to defeat movement. Trade of
neut.a's not to be attacked, British ambassador gives assurance but Unit
ed States is not losing any time in organizing against boycott
Closing of purchase of tine British West Indies awaits "return of
Secretary Lansine; from vacation. Detail
ial secret .
Parliament may veto whole iIan
posed m 1912.
SAN FRANCISCO. Tuly 26
that it could have been a simple accident. Kxtw rte finH r
lu.teo device. . 1 o,ue works on theory of anarchistic rnmhine Vn
yet found.
PARIS, July 26 Grand Duke
drawing nearer fortified city of Erzingen, while other columns are aimed
at oiner uttonian tortreses of Armenia.
V on Lingsingsen s lines are reported penetrated. Berlin Amu
reverses on eas'ei i trout, while British :mrl Vr. u t
at Teutonic lines on Somme.
TOKIO, July 26 Okuma holds
successor. . .
SING SING, July 26 Dr. Arthur Waite. whn ; ,i.,,ti, i, u
awamng execution, yesterday cut a
wmui nad been smutnrled into his cell.
surgeons when found covered with
NEWYORK . July 25 Am
cer,ed campaign agains boycott.
as a result ot meeting held a few davs
lout the United St.itec
American interests. Committee 'rd o Song
support, from vanous substantial business ho,e La f, . Strnff
LONDON. July 25 Fiirht
ish won a number of successes against stilt resistance The British so -
lions o UV Wcr3 daJ S '""M !" Vicini,y f Ha'"Ut and trc"cl pos -Uons
of 1 oiervs today succeeded m capturing the jrreater part of t,V.,-e
Germans brought up large reinforcements tnakincn,?,! ' Z l ' 1
British able to consolidate trains and
losses on Teutons.
Maui Man Is First
Candidate In Race
Files Nomination With Territorial
Secretary Many More Expected
To Enter Very Soon
First of all the sw.irm of candidates
soon to be expected for the coming
prmary election is Levi Mahlai, who
filed bis nomination papers at the
Urritorial secretary's office in Honolu
lu on Wednesday of this week. Ma
hial Is in the field as a representative
from this district. The time for clos
ing the entries in the political race is
not until September 7, but Mahlai is
losing no time in making his intent
Ions known.
Others from Maui who have intimat
ed their intention or willingness to
serve their county In the legislature
are Hon. II. A. Baldwin, for the sen
ate; A. F. Tavares, It. J. K. Nawahlne,
Levi Joseph, M. G. Taschoal, Chas. Ka
anol, L. B. Kaumeheiwa, Ed. Walwai
ole, V. F. Crockett, and P. J. Goodness
for the House. Maj. H. B. Penhallow,
will probably also be a candidate for
the senate.
Asked if
militia individually in
Oahu, he
and beggars real issue.
young men
as it did wlien tm
1
Latest word in hi, i:
' "
routs Tnrtrc
1 dinnier,nK
fast to premiershin unable tr, f,nJ
1
huge cross on his chest with elass
Vn,.M
talk to guards or
blood.
Committee of s & 3
atro seeking airl nf m.r,i. ..
tn i .
l.l,l tl,..; . . V'.i- . "ul
r """"mB 'H'avy
