' . - ' . - ' , ' - : , U ; - , ; . , ... . - ' --;
From Ban Franclseo .-,.! V a iV A S S- VA -ZTV 1;AwA1NAf ' ! 'iAS vAt lyN A A U?lJ
Sonoma. July 21 ''' n I nfvXY Vn7' 7 V 7 AT ' 1 H H ' C MpVllh- TT 7 4 A ? "VV
Niagara,' Apg.18. j) ' f " " ; : - -: - - ': 1 ' ' "-" i--:-- ; V -A -; l -
J
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERBITOBY OF, HAWAII, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 191G. 12 PAGES.
PBICE FIVE CEOT3
mm
i ' . . . i I, i . ,. i . 1 1 i i i '
Evening Bulletin, Est 1882 No. 6- T
3M
airmail
J
RUCE CAPTURE'
raimiTEOFon
? rillY OFFEIJSES
-Arrested Filipino Admits Enter--,
jng Ten Houses and Will
; Tell Wore Later
: MUCH BOOTY FOUfJD
: , - - WHEN MAN IS CAUGHT
: ; ;,-il i i v... ;- '
: Suspect Prisoner is Man Who
Wounded Priest When
Caught in Chapel ,
r The tnost extensive buitlary cam
' ' pRlgnTer conducted IndlTldually la
Honolulu, wag probably effectively
-checked last nlht by CapL Arthur
" McDuffle by the arrest of Emenlclo
de la Cruz. . a Filipino escaped con
"vict, who a4miU 10 .recent robberies
'' saye he will tell of of more "when
he bag time to think a little."
r Not only, has McDuffle finally
' caught, after weeks of diligent search-
lnr, a Jail-breaker and a burglar but
the capUin believes. from Crux's testi
mony that he is the Filipino who afc
5 tempted to murder Itaro Kawasaki In
' ' the Japanese temple on King street
near Beretanta Junction ' July" "15.
i ;when the ;latter surprised a burglar
''and grappled with Mm, ' ,-' ;
' - Cruf was arrested last night by
; gquad' consisting of .Capti McDuffle,
! 8ergeant Kellet, Detective Clerk Hat
; ton and Detectives Silva andOcampo
- who tracked. hln to hla hiding place
on Aouauu street peiween xvukd u
Berttacla streets and took, him after
a rtrcr-Ie. Crux tried to reach his
pestel tader a pillow but McDuffle's
gam ''.covered" him too quickly. : ,
i . Ceveral ; -artlclea? : stolen by Crux
a were found in his room, Including val-
uatle watches, money rators, clothes,
, t helves; keys nd a bicycle. A coat
and a razor taken from lbe home of
A. Mlsuml, a Hawaii Shlnpo Reporter,
July 28, are two of the, recovered
. articles. . Crux was' wearing the coat
v' when cross-examined . by . McDuffle
this morning,, the razor was In -the
C pockeL . - ; --.j. ;J
for firtt CcSTte burglary;, a short time
' Uttf ha rcrei, Was-caught1 Upon 1n
' - fwr: t: n furr' hci by McDuffle, and
retun.J to J-ll.v' Way 19,' -this year,
he ecr,; ed t aln, this time from the
V JIcIIlUl quarry, and had been at large
-' unUl last night McDufffe has thought
1 - for som tt; e that the escaped con-;
vict was re6nslhle -for successive
rotberie but was unable to snare him.
Crux has followed Tecullagr tactics
t in most cf his burglaries and attempt
ed robberies. He left something be
hind at nearly eTery place entered,
' end usually something that had been
. previously stolen from another place.
For Instance, he left a butcher knife,
thought to have been the one which
' cut the Japanese priest. In a house
; nearby where a pair of shoes', was
stolen;. at another place a bunch of
keys, taken some time before, was
left behind and at still another home
he left ar suit of clothes. , , ; ;
The " wholesale burglar talked quite
J t ra nkly to IlcDuffje this morning,
telling cf robberies he remembered.
He promised to divulge more.; Those
admitted by Cruz,' and property re
covered la each, the the following. -.
. TaBaka's residence, MoIllIU May 24,
watch and chain, spectacles and cloth.
In gtaken.' Watch aald to be pawned
".; at Puuloa, :., ;
Attempted burglary, 838 ' North
, King . street, Ah Lin residence, June
. I. ' . - , ' J: -
; : K. r TJyeda home, Vineyard street,
1 .June. 6, keys, watch, chain. and purse
' storen recovered; .: t ;c;.t' x
K. Furuya 'residence," Banyan road,
Palama June T. Clothing not found.
i William Marshall , home, . Campbell
aid Martha avenuea, June 16, Kapa
':. hulu. Revolver and cartridges stolen
.' recovered . ' ' :. .
. T. Tanka, I960 Beretanla street.
June 26. Elgin watch taken--fonnd.
, K. Kono, 343 Kuakin! street, July
; IS. ' Purse and shoes taken found.
V v A. Mlsuml, King street, opposite
Palama fire station. July 26. Coat
and razor takeu recovered. V
McDuffle believes Crux burglarized
... some home or tried . to, practically
every day ' since his escape from
, prison. In every . Instance the rob
bery wag made at night and quite
- 'often . while' residents were In - the
homes. Crux seemed to have.no fear
nd stole w indiscriminately. He -will
, . be arraigned In police court probably
'.next. weeltu ; - - : -t .
BAFJKERS' TAX GOES ; C .
.'DELINQUENT MONDAY;
' v MOST WAVE PAID UP
l Monday is the last day on which
' Honolulu and other banks on the Is
, , Jands. can pay . the special bank tax
ifrn posed by the. treasury department.
. and collected .by . the . U. S. Internal
- revenue office here. Collector John F.
Haley announces today. :" -'
-''-This tax is based on capital, sur-
' plus and undivided profits at the rate
of , ' for every $1000. Although a
''; large percentage of banks In the ter
- ritory have already paid the tax, sot
are still outstanding and must 'be
paid on or before July 31 or go delin
quent ' Fifty per cent is added after
7 that date and delinquent banks are
f -.it -ct' to prosecution. ' . ;
NEW YORK STOCK '
MARKET TODAY
Followiiifl are the closing price of
stock cn the New Ycrk marekt to
day, sent by the Associated Press over
the Fcoeral Wireless.
Yester
Today, day.
Alaska Cold .... 172
American Smelter 92ft
American Sugar Rfg.... 111
American Tel. . Tel 1214
A oaconda Coper ........ 78
AtchUon 104
174
Wi
108
129
78
104
69'4
85
Baldwin Locoi'. ........ 9J4 ;,
Baltimore A Ohio...... 852
Bethlehem Steel .. .. . X
... K AW
calif, petroleum .......
Canadian Pacific .......175
17
17'4
43
7
34
C- M. & St. K. (Ot, fui; my9
Colo. Fuel & iron.......
43
66'2
S4H
1S3
Crucible Steel
Erie Common ..
General Electric
167"4
General Motors ... t t"
Great Northern Pfd. . . .
Irrter. Harv N. J.;..;.
Kennecott Copper ......
1172 117ft
113 113
45
t Lehigh R. R......... ...
r New York Central
Pennsylvania . . . . . .....
774
103
5634
974
126
24ft
136'2
dS
117ft
75
93;
77A
102
5Cft
22
' 97
126'4
23
135ft
86'4
117ft
75
93
Ray Conaou
Southern Pacific .
Studebaker ......
Tennessee Copper
Union Pacifio ...
U. S. Steel
U. S. Steel Pfd. .
Utah
Western Union,...
Westinghouse .....
;.8ld.tEjwllvldenel.
Unquoted.
8UGAR
v SAN FRANCISCO, Cal July 29,
Sugar: 96 deg., test, 67ca Previous
nnntatlnn R 1 ii - : A. v -
25 Mil 1
Cfrcno's V.rrk Sets New Rsc
f v ;yTo Quit Work V
(Aoeited Preti by Tedrl WirelMi)
.f CHICAGO; IU,V July 28 The
4- great heat wave of the Middle
West and East, the worst since
1901, continues unabated today.
f ; With - dry, scorching ' winds
-t when "atfy winds are blowing
-f and almost cloudless skies from 4
which the sun pours down,
- relief was given the suffering
crowds today. ..
- - The hottest cities in the coun-
try' are Chicago, Milwaukee and
St.' Louis. . :. ; , '
f , Twenty-five deaths from"; heat
have been recorded'. - ' -'
f Chicago is hotter than ever be-
- fore recorded. - At midnight last
night the temperatura was to de- -4--f.
grees. ' In the rolling mills and
Iron worka the heat was so terrific
that even the hardened employes -f
could not endure it and, refused
' to work. , . v . : : -f
.vft
Pffi ATLOSS,
FIGURES SHOW
(Atiociatod'Prcsi j
DT FMUtl WireiM) '
WASHINGTON, D. O. July 28. Ac
cording to figures made public today,
the Panama Canal is running at .a
loss. The tolls for the year' ending
In May were 84,286,551 less than ex
penses. For the month of May the
tolls amounted to 1368,023. f
VILLISTAS ARE
(AcsofUted Prei ty Federal Wirelew)
MEXICO' CITY, Mex, July . 28.
Gen. Plank, a Carranza leader, has
captured 500 Vlllistaa at Zacatecas, it
is announced. All of them were given
amnesty, on promise to become loyal
tcx Carranxa.--:-.
CAPERTON SUCCEEDS TO
PACIFIC FLEET COMMAND
( AMoeisted PreM by Federal Wireless)
SAN DIEGO. CaL, July 28. Admiral
William B. Caperton today succeeded
Admiral Cameron McR. Winslow as
commander-in-chief of the Pacific
fleet-.-.,-.'. --' '-'.'. :'
OTAL
; OF GREAT HEAT t
Uh'E in states
PAKIA'CAIL
111 FREEDOM
'After several weeks' illness Traffic
Officer John Hills is able to be around
again. He expects to return to duty
Shortly. - - . --
SUCCESSOR HEREMAMED
Captain George R. Cfark, Daniels Man, Selected as Comman?
dant of Naval Station Prominent . in f hvy Educational
Work.. . - -.:.t-'. ' ::--- "' ':
WASHINGTON, D. CM July 28-Capt. G. R. Clar has been designated
as commandant of the naval station, Honolulu, 'succeeding Admiral Clifford
J. Boush. Capt. Clark for the past year: has been 'fhmbt? t the naval
retiring and examining board. He was previously pide -to Secretary Daniels
for education, and had charge of all the naval educaonal work conducted
by Mr. Daniels." . ',.-. ? , ' 1 ' : '
-'n C S. ALBERT.
- . - - v -
Capt George R. Clark has to his credit a dlstlnguWihed areer as a Unit
ed States naval officer. He Is 59 yeata of age, graduated from the' U. S.
Naval Academy in 1878 and has nearly three lyearsvft for active service
before retiring for age. He has nee naervice in the. Atlantic, Pacific, Med
iterranean and China sqnadons; took part in r tht ;ajilsh. American war,
Philippine insurrection and Boxer rebellion, is a memtj&r of several military
orders and an author of note upon naval subjects. . H'i present home Is in
Washington. -; ''"--.-''
"Capt dark is a fine officer andd a man of lrllghtful personality,:
said Admiral Boosh this morning, when over the telephone to Pearl Harbor
the Star-Bulletin informed him of the selection of successor. T know
him very well and h is highly regarded." . V- ' . " '
Capt Clark has. a wife and one daughter. It JsJCte the family will
come here soon. Admiral Bonsh retires for age on ugust 13. -. Much re
gret is expressed among Honolulans at the .etlrementpf the admiral. ?
FILE PLANS
FOR
EXTENDING ROAD
TO FORT SH AFTER
Rapid Transit. Makes 1lo Fur:
;vther.Announcemeht 6f;xiV;
tensions Following Meeting
IMPROVEMENTS WL;
FOLLOW STOCK ISSUE
1 .vv
Extension of the lines of the Hon o;
lulu' Rapid Transit & Land Company
to vFort Shafteiv will be made as soon
aa the. -plans, riled thia morning, are
approyod ;.by,i the t superintendent of
pQbllc works, according to O; Bal
lent)-ne, general manager' of r the, corn?
iMoaSIn
are 'up in the, air'. Pouble. tricking
of King street voted at. a meeting of
the: directors early, this " year, and
double tracking of Kalakaua . avenue
and. removal of the tracks to the cen
ter of the roadway will be started soon
but. just 'when or how has not yet
been determined, according to Mr. Bal
lentyne. Worn rails are to be replaced
throughout the system also. '.-.''
V'No plans have been formulated.
We .are) going to make improvements,
but that ia about all that weTknow,f
aald the manager. "The King street
extension, "to the top o the hill just
beyond Shafter, has been, planned, for
some time and Would have been made
regardless of the outcome of the case
of the territory against us. "
Other improvements will be made
as the result of the release of capital
by the outcome of the suit but noth
ing definite has been done in . the
matter." a' ';'r , ;' :'.. - v--.
Stockholders of the Honolulu Rapid
Transit cV-.Land Company will ; be
called upon to determine whether the
company shall Increase its 'capital
stock by the issuing of $392,500 and
whether the same or any part there
of . shall be issued as paid up, non
assessable' stock to stockholders . pro
rata for amounts actually invested In
the plant of the company in excess of
outstanding issued stock. -This will
h done at a meetine to be held in
Room 609 Stangenwald building, Aug
ust 5, at 9a' - r k'.
c At the meeting of directors held
yesterday atternoon the following res
olution was passed: ;f - . ; , :
f Voted that the directors recommend
to the stockholders to increase the
capital stock to $1,600,000 by the issu
ing of $392,500 of paid up, non-assessable
stock pro rata to the stockholders
at record of the date of said meeting
to cover in part amounts actually in
vested In the plant of the company in
excess of outstanding issued stock
which - the company is authorised to
Issue to its stockholders under, the de
cision bf the supreme court of the, Ter
ritory tt Hawaii; and that the same
be proportionally distributed, as pro-
NEW NAVY MAKES ITS APPEARANCE TUESDAY
2 The largest ocean-going battle fleet in the world f
That is what could be said of the thirty-five submarines and forty
cruisers to be launched next Tuesday by the Star-Bulletin and which
will set out immediately on a voyage that every one of our readers will
follow with intense interest. v . '
It is no easy task to build, equip, provision and man seventy-five
war vessels, especially when only a few days are allowed in which to do
it. But in this case it was done, and done thoroughly, and when this
mighty armada sails forth majestically next Tuesday no effort will
have been spared to make it the strongest and most formidable aggre
gation of sea-fighters ever assembled under one flag. As you gaze upon
it next Tuesday you'll realize how meager and inadequate is our description.-
r
This fleet is capable of putting up a terrible battle, as an enemy
would soon find out. . But its prime purpose is not one of war but one
of peace, and the message it will carry should bring pleasure and fun
to every family circle in Hawaii:
Watch for news of the launching of this fleet next Tuesday. Then
keep yourself informed regarding its every move. For each maneuver
if makes spells opportunity to every doctor, stenographer, ; .lawyer,
school boy, housekeeper, drayman,' merchant and sales girl in Hono
lulu.' ;V. - ..'' - ; ;v.
HIGHER ME FOR
VATEi;IFPli
11
Harry Murray ;SaysAbandon-
ment of'tlse ot.:Nuuanu
cWaterlV(!uld;fciCosUy;:t
INbftEAsibfe 50JPER ftl
: ! r CENTIMIGjfT RESULT
. Water rates throughout, the city
must be lhCreas about '50 per cent
if the suggestion 'f of theV board c
haaifh "f; prrfi I out and cartesian
water substttutMt for, iKuuanu -, water
for domestic, ur a in tne opiniGnot
Hrrv;iitirray.'i janaeer 'ofr the water
at roflnmercfeAhe' Board asked that the
health cdmmittee'of thit -'organlza;
tlon! study, ie water! supply question,
with ' a view to recommending the
condemnation for city use pf all thf
private artesian wells and. eventually
abandoning the Nuuanu supply. At a
meeting Thursday afternoon the com
mittee discussed the projesai briefly
and deferred action on it until; the
next meeting. " -V-" ?- -J --t
It .will- cost about! $23 a million
gallons to'pnmp water from the' lower
levels where the wells are located to
the higher level , above School street
now supplied with' Nuuanu water,"
said Murray." "The department can
sot differentiate in Its rates and there
will have to be a general; increase in
rates to take care of the Increased
cost of operating , if the'plan IS put
through." ; " ' ' ; ' .
( He pointed out that a pumping
plant such as will be needed If-artesi-an
water Is supplied in place of the
Nuuanu surface water will cost about
$125,000 and a filtration plant built
for about the same amount and Water
purified at a cost small enough .to
eliminate the necessity v of raising
rates.J ; . , . . -- '-
. Artesian water now' used to irri
gate rice fields and truck gardens in
the city, should be conserved, he.aaid,
a?nd the draw-ef L cut xlown to a point
where the artesian head 'will be pre
serveL- "Wated nowl flooding . the
Waiklkl rice, fields may be needed for
city use before long" he sa!dv "There
should , be some means of ' regulating
the water used for such purposes in
the city limits." A t:i -v : r
..v.- . '
- In the federal court Thursday Otto
Emll Pentx, sergeant at ". Schofield
Barracks,1 a native of Germany, was
admitted ta citizenship. Witnesses
were Burchell Earns and William . H.
Shorley. - ; ;-i'' - '. '-
vided by the' bylaws of this company,
fractions of shares to be sold as therein-
provided, and the, proceeds dis
tributed pro rata among those entitled
thereto. ' - v ,
mm
ED OUT
C -jti.i ii .lt
4T1
to
Rumor Territorial Senator Will
Succeed Judge Stuart Is
Strengthened by Latest ue
vvelopment
Definite Indiatiojra that Senator
James 1. Cokefcf lionolulu will be ap
pointed third jItcmu judge to succeed
Thomaa B. aupt of - letterwritlng
fame, developer -today'.' Coke handed
to Governor Pin,kbam his- resignation
as territorial seoator and the governor
immediately accepted it In accepting
the. letter, the governor expressed his
appreciation of the t senator's public
services. ; - -.:.'..;- '
The formalities were as follows:.
Letter of Real gnation.
y- Honolulu, July 28. 1916.
Hon. Lucius E. Pinkham, -' -
Governor of the Territory of Hawaii.
My " Dear Governor: I . hereby re
sign as a member of the senate rep
resenting the Third Senatorial District
in the legislature of the Territory of
Hawaii. This resignation to take eN
feet upon the date hereof.
I have the honor to remain,
-Very respectfully yours,
V : ; . .' JAMKS.L.'COKE. "
Governor'a Acceptance. '. ;
. . - TCxeciitive Chamber, -.
x;;,i. - Honolulu, July 28, 1918.
Honorable James Lr. Coke, Honolulu,
;r-T h, t ; ." v.
Jly Dear Senator: ' I am In receipt
of your favor of this date . resigning
from your membership of the territori
al senate representing' the Third Sen
atorial , District ;n the legislature of
the Territory of HawaiL. Jn accord
ance with Secilon 31of the Organic
Act, ! accept your, resignation.1 : . ;
h I ' beg; to note" my - sincere: apprecia
tion of your public services.:. (
:-Verr:aIncerely,.'jf''',i
V V LUCltJS'E. PINKHAM, '
4v ' ; : Governor of Hawaii.'
Whether his f . atatusas a aenator
would debar him from appointment as
judge during his senatorial term 1a a
question raised concerning Coke" as a
indfcfai nosiibllitv. vUnder the Prgaii
16 Artembers at, the legislature are
Ineligible to certain appointmenisTne
exact status has never been settled.
to clear the wayand fit i. a-tQaUer
of commoa rumorl that Coke is likely
to be'jrecbmmended lto'-tha; president
by the attorney general.
'.In practical effeptP there are only 90
days remaining 'of Coke'a fourryear
term and there ia no proapect of an
extra session, ao that he la considered
to have discharged his duties as a sen
ator fully. If a special legislative ses
sion should be called after the Novem
ber election at which: his successor is
chosen, the newly-elected man would
qu&iu ior,uie ucbbiuu.
Official ' Cablegrams Do Not
Admit Serious Reverses On
;v.i : Any Front :
German counter-attacks are stop
ping: most of- the enemy gains .both
on east and west fronts, say the offi
cial German cablegrams for the- past
two days.- . - . : - ' '.;-'. iV
. A feature of today's newa Is the
mention of (fighting between .the
Allies and the, Bulgarians. , Some
weeks ago an Allied offensive from
Salonlkl and the northern camps was
predicted.-'
The cablegrama say: - ,
"GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, July
27, Between Ancre; and So name, up
to the night hours, strong;' artillery
duela took place. 'Enemy hand gren
ade attack west of Pozleres were re
pulsed. Av French attack northeast
of Barleaux ailed. In the districts
of Froideterre . and Fleiiry. several
strong French attacks were repulsed.
In. bne place the combat Is still going-
on. . '' ,'
"Strong British reconnoitering de
tachments southwest of Warneton
and patrols near Jtlchebourg, were
repulsed.' French attacks in Coupde
maln, north Viennel and Chateau,
failed. ' German patrols near Vllle au
Bois and Arom captured French posi
tions northeast of Prunary, brought
in 50 prisoners . .
"A French biplane was shot flown
in an air-combat near Beine, '.'east of
Rheims. '.;.
"East . front, Russians attacked
without success our positions on
Shutshara, northwest of Lyachoyt
8hy. Likewise, west of Berestecko,
the Russians were bloodily repulsed.
Advance posts : engagement on the
Kamaika, south of. Vidsy, resulted in
heavy enemy losses. Besides these,
there-were no Incidents cT import
ance." .
Todaa Report
"GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, July
28. Western war. theater: A German
patrol Mn the district of Neuve
chapelle advanced and brought in two
machine guns together with 30 prison
ers, among whom were three officers.
. "North of 4Somme, the English in
Coke
Resigning
Way
For
V1CU1
Naming
Bench
0F.MT1BP5
COUNTER EVERY
ALLIED ATTACK
naval court mm m m
FOLLOWED BY 'AVESB
SKIPPER FRY ATT SAID TO HAVE TRIED TO RAM SUBMA
RINE WITH HIS SHIP CASE IS UNIQUE LAND FIGHT
ING SHOWS FEW DEVELOPMENTS BUT SERBIAN 0F-
FENSIVE AGAINST BULGARIA ,, - .
Adjudged guilty of the crime of "franc-tireurism' on the staa, a Brit
, ish merchant steamer captain, Charles Fryatt, has been shat to deat.i by
German military authorities. - V; ' " r
The news came to the Star-Bulletin today emong the official German
cablegramt with war-newi. A "franc-tireur" is a sharpshooter or guerilla,
the term being French, ind during the present war has been applied to the
"snipers.'. So far as is known, the execution of Fryatt Is the first In
atance where the doctrine of execution for "franc-tlreura haa been ex- .,
tended to the sea. " - ; . . i
Associated Press despatches confirm the. German announcement and I
ndicate also that the Allied countries are aroused by the occurrence and
. threaten retaliation. ;v. , : ' , ... : '
V ! - OFFICIAL GER MAM CABLEGRAM v -
BRUGGE, WEST FLANDERS. ITelgium, July 27. Proceeding
have been held of the field court of the navy corps against Captain
Charles -Fryatt of the English steamer Bruzzels, which was brought in
as a prize a few days ago. .. ' j r.- ' . ' ', ' : ' -
" Fryatt has been sentenced to death because, although' not belong
ing to the armed forces, on March 28tnear Maas fire-ship he tried to
ram a German submarine, the U-33. i r ,".
: Fryatt and the first -offiper and first engineer received from the -British
admiralty golden watches for "brave conduct", and .were men
tioned in the House of Commons. , ;
The U-33 had signalled to the British, steamer to .shown her flag '
and stop but Captain Fryatt did not heed the signal. .He turned at.
high speed towards Jhe submarine, which escaped only by diving hnme- y
diately 'some. meterSstnder; the surface. . Fryatt admitted that he had
followed the instructions of the British admiralty. . . ,
The sentence was confirmed and Fryatt was executed for the franc
tireur crime against the armed .German sea-forced ':-.'." . !: , ' -
4 - .-.'W..,.v.,r. ''..- -. " . -. " .- .--
1 ; ;v- "' ' . --1. : r '
: ' 1 'j -X X .-':..'. AweUt4 Snrl by ttdtihl WirU) ' " '
;';:;.WASHINGTONv D. C, July 23 The news of Captain Fryatt's 1
execution received here, today, lias stirred, tip mucli feeling among dip-
lomatic and other quarters connected with thcAllicd powers. : -V '
. v Tlie. ekecutibn is regarded as a "violation of mternational faw, and
diplornatsPwhile declining to be quoted, made it plain that, the deed is
fikely'to mult jn! 'retaliatory nieasures against the Germans; ' i . . VT.
Lnucli ircops. Clear yelvwa. Icz'A : ;
'i LONDON", Eng., July 28.The British today made a sweeping
attack on Delville . wood, west front, and "captured it.; To take the
wood, which was defended stoutly they had to tlislotjge the fighting
Brandenourg division, but this was driven out by their charges. . .
Russians Launched on Vestcm Front
', "i ' PARIS, France, July 28.r-Despatches received here say that the
Russians have penetrated the German trenches near Auberivc,' on the .
west line, .and cleared them with hand-grenade attacks.. These are
among ; tin? first Russians to be used on the west of those landed at tar
seilles. -The Russians took some prisoners. ; , v ': " v
The French infantry repulsed German attacks near. Lihons. On
the right of the Meuse IJrench artillery stopped preparations. for an at
tack on the,. Thiaumont works. ' t " ' ' " --
In the. Balkan arena, say despatches today? from Saloniki, the Ser
bians began an offensive against the Bulgarians in Macedonia. The
Serbians occupied a series of. Heights, which the, Bulgarians are endeav
oring to regain by counter-attacks. . '. , . , : '.. . .'
PETROGRAD, Russia,. July 28. In Volhynia, Galicia, and other '
sectors on i the east front, the Russians today continued their-advance,
winning ground in the region of the rivers Slonevka and Boldarovka. '
The Russian Caucfasian army is also' advancing. . ; , i. '.-1-".:
' ,".. r ' ;:- ' . ;- ;.- i ' '. "
U. S. Plan to Aid Poland Advancing
" WASHINGTON; D, C, July 28. Ambassador. PerJield his cabled
from ; Vienna that he has been given assurances by Austria that this
government favors the appeal of ; President Wilson for American relief
for Poland and for an agreement among the belligerents that the way
be tleared for the distribution of relief supplies. i v v : V '
Ambassador Walter H. Page has cabled from-London that Britain
is willing that there shall be in Poland a duplication of the plan of re
lief distribution in Belgium under the Hoover commission, providing the
Teutons wilt guarantee not t& remove products of the occupied territory
when the outside supplies begin to come in. : . ; . ' j
DEUTSCHLAND BELIEVED
AWAITING THE DRELm
Canadian Official Punctures Rumor Second Submarine Cap
xurea ana i axen 10 namax
BALTIMORE, Maryland, July 28. it la rumored here that the Vubmar
Ine Deutschland will make no attempt to depart until the slater-vesael Bre
men has been officially reported.
ST. JOHN", N. B, July 28 The minister of marine and fiaheriea macfa
authoritative denial today of the rumor that the Bremen had been captures
by British patrolling vessels and taken secretly to Halifax. ::.. V, !,
creased their fire to its highest
strength. During the afternoon fol
lowed strong attacks which broke
down near; Pozleres, several times in
the Fcureaux forest and, southeast of
It, before German positions. In
Longeuval and Delville forests there
Is hand to hand fighting, .' but no
enemy successes.'. . ';:, ;
"South of Somme, artillery duels
continue on both sides, very active.
Otherwise," the only advances of hos
tile hand grenade troops are near
Soyecourt, ,- later repulsed. East c f
mm
It '
:-
oy uriusn uoais ,
.
Meuse, French enterprises , against
works in Thiaumont' failed. .
"Eastern war theater, Hlndenburg's
army, front: The situation Is general
ly unchanged. - Russ'ana renewei at
tacks against Prince Leopold's Cava--Ian'
army group. They . attacked re
times in vain, alnce yesterday a!'
noon on the fronts of Elr
Vygoda and east .Goroc! ish t;"
two army corps. Further tr
going on. v Attach.:'.- - v
tr-
