v THE WEATHER FORECAST. ' f
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow;
little change of temperature,
Highest temperature yesterday, 85; lowest, 73.
dialled weather, mull mid marine repor.ta on page 9,
IT SHINeIIL '
tin.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 332.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by fne Sun Printing and 1'ubliahtng A.ooclatton.
HMP1. r.PMT tlreater New Vork, Elsewhere,
Itm; City and Ken ark. I TWO CKNTfl.
s4fi9BBS3BFBHB
iMBHaLaiHvI V.lsiisflssnasnaVaaasnasnai 'BslHlsrB
flsfinHHHP-jiflssssmS
BRITISH REGAIN
GERMAN TRENCH
NEAR POZIERES
Onco Forced Out by Shell
in?, Tluv Win, Despite
Teuton Keenforecments.
XOW HOLD WHOLE
OF SECOND LINE
Fierce Fighting Now On in
the Vicinity of Del
villc Wood.
"GH EAT EST ARTILLERY
BATTLE OF THE WAR"
Haig's Big Guns Batter
Front Northwest of
Pozieres.
London-, July I. Pozieres was as
saulted In counter ntUcks by the Ger
mans to-d.iy. hut despite the fact that
they seem to have brought fresh troops
to the sector the British forces to-night
rd succeeded In further consolidating
their positions In the village, had ad
ur.ee J a little to the north, had Im
jfoved their positions In the Dclvllle
ood and at I.onguevnl and hid begun
preparation by terrific artillery fire for
aa infantry advance northwest of
l'o:ifres, with Thlcpv.il ns the objec
tive. In the fighting Wednesday nlRlit the
Krltlsh captured nn Important German
trench situated to the north of the Hue
tunning from Pozieres to Uazentln-lc-rettt.
but were shelled out of It Thurs
day morning by enftladliiB artillery fire.
Another attack, however, gave .the i
British a foothold In tho southern end I
of the trench.
Mrnlulitrnlnat the Line.
The operation tn the west Is not likely
to iHUlt In spectacular sains and will
not make much of a showing on the
reap, but It Is necessary to straighten
tut the receding' curve In the Hrltlaii
!'ne. Thiepval Is now only about a
!. from the Uritlsh trencher. All this
must 1 done before much more can he
accmpllshed to the north and east. So
the bombardment proceeds with uninter
rupted luiy. while tho Germans reply
lth tear ptoduclng shells.
At some poluta west of Pozieres where
the commanders apparently considered
'"e artillerv prepntntlou complete there
ei hand lo hand encounters betw-een
the H.-ltish and Germ, ins. War Office
official replied to-ulght to Berlin's as
sertion tuat the British were repulsed
In th-e encounters by saying they were
.mply testing operations.
Concentrate llljr linn.
The German have concentrated great
TJJimiics uf heavy suns and a vast
fj'iii-T of troops to Mop the British
Jvini-e, the Ixtily Xcicn corlcspondent
l headquarters Is assured. The cap
lure of I'nzleros h t),e completion of
n Important though subsidiary move
T.'nt, h yAy,, The ground won since
July 1 about twenty-four square miles.
"When one understands," he continues,
"th extent to which each fraction of a
mile was fortified and defended and the
enormous amount of preparation by the
enemy to make the district impregnable,
" I" plain our advance Is a considerable
triumph.
'Uvldence continues to accumulate
that the enemy has concentrated great
quantities of puns and troops to oppose
Mir next push. 1 am unaware whether
tIII be a direct thrust over the whole
front or more piecemeal tactics, but I
an sure It Is not our Intention to give
tr eremy much rest henceforth."
Mli.tary cities remark that the Brit
now are In possession of the whole
German second line of defence In the
Somrr.e region. The fight for Pozleres
laited eleven ijy, from July 14 to July
-i T:,e defenders used 200 machine
tuns and British artillery destroyed or
fat out of action 170 of them.
Take Dclvlllr Wood.
Ore of the correspondents with the
"fit h army In the field, telegraphing
ir.ls evening, says :
"Tie British went after Dclvllle Wood
M.n tn-day and took It.
'Tne i;rmans had been quiet because
'e IlriUfh made no Infantry attack, but
ll the wh'le the machine suns had been
mtlliiR rind the artillery had kept up
a thunderous drumbeat In what, before
the otfer would hnve been referred
1' S l violent littlllen ilnel so com.
monplj, e has the continual bombard
men' Uvnme that one olllcer, whose post
of du's I with the transport, Just out
;f the laiiKe of the shells, complains that
.iw.ikintd when there Is a lull at
ll.Shl
'Tn s rimming the British put on
IMv .., Wood the heaviest concentra
'."n of s, frf. I,, H Kv,.n ar?ll ever
aire (e, asilnst held fortifications. Kven
t e Ru., tiers er. amazed when they
tomputeii a, nlume per minute in pre
Mnriie ' ie wa- for the Infantry. Count
i e fr mt a thousand yards there
'""! i ve ,een thiee shells a minute
"lljif n eery yard.
Tornado nf ninat.
i T," r "Tose was to leive nothing
r, l i nothing llvlus. Not a single
. nuper in a tiee, not a single
''mi 111 In.l hlne l?nn. lint Wfiy tn h nut
out f
'js.ntss ny tne tornado or tilasts.
I ie Wood has left Trones Wood
anie reputation, Tho Infantry
sidrs there Invn no dugouts.
y piotertlon Is shallow trenches,
are . K tl open field operations.
wall 'i teats a hole among the
' a tree, killing a man, make
lion for his neighbor who
M tr.it hf-eiie.
"lie
Mtii
of i,
Thei,
ll I
rt
'urvi
TJi.. H,th )mil nearly all the Delvllle
"od fi. r the advance of July H, but
x1 Of, mans got an enflladlnK machine
tonflniifil on Htcond Pagi.
BE FIRM IN CRISIS
P8ER BEGS PEOPLE
Suffer in Silence, ns Iron Hur
ricane Hmjtch Against
Army, He Urjres.
hh MUST BEAR HUNGER'
Even With Victory, "War Af
ter the War Coming,"
His Prophecy.
Special Cable Detpatch to Tim Sc.v.
Ijnuon, July 27 A letter from
Kaiser Wllhelm passionately appealing
to the German people to stand firm and
unwavering no matter. how the tide of
battle flows has been printed In all the
German papers. The letter was circu
lated by the scml-om.'lal Wolff News
Agency.
Dated from the front In the west, the
letter says In part:
'The battle Is raging,' huge beyond
all previous Imagination. Rejuvenated,
perfectly equipped with all they want,
Hussla's armies again have broken
against our bulwarks In the east. This
has eased the situation for Italy.
France has experienced a regeneration
In this war of which she hardly be
lieved herself capable. She has dragged
herdllatory UngUsh ally Into Joining
the offensive on flic tioinme. and what
ever Inward worth the British army
has It now has an abundance of artil
lery. "The Iron hurricane rases against
our brave German men at the Somme.
Negroes and white men come upon us
In wave after wave. In ever fresh
storms, wild and sullen. Kverythlns Is
at stake. The Ice cold haberdashers on
the Thames jearn for our holiest things.
The health and life of our women and
our children are menaced. Kven neutrals
must bear hunger. Only the depths of
the oceaji now are open to us. Should
we be victorious there Is threatening a
'war after the war' when the best en
ergies and power of the nation, now ex
pressed by Its Joy In arms, shall be
taxed to the utmost to meet raw force,
hatred and calumny.
"What, German people. Is our duty
In this hour? The army wants no ex
hortations. It has fought supcrhumanly.
It will tight until rtnal victory. Hut the
people at home this Is their duty: To
suffer In silence, to bear their renuncia
tions with dignity.
'Those at home are not all doing
these things. Not all are alive to the
tremendous seriousness of the times.
Arc our people at home the same people
as at the beginning of the war? The
writer fears not. Let us remember that
this is no otdlnary rupture of ordinary
life. It Is he hour of destiny for our
Fatherland, the hour which will Influence
us for centuries. We must unite In
opposition to the entire world. We must
all cooperate In the struggle:
"Any man or woman wbo hangs his
or her heat) or surfers despondency to
enter his soul is guilty now of treason.
Kvery woid of complaint or discourage
ment Is a crime against our fathers,
our sons and our brotheie. It us show
the greatness of tho German nation.
Do not Jeopardize everything by petty
squabbling. It Is no time for Internecine
strife. Hut It Is time for holding to
gether. In this hour the best blood
or the nation, mature men and budding
youths, are presenting their breasts tn
the Iron hall of the Kngllsh. Russian
and African hordes. Uvcrj thing Is at
stake."
This is In strange contradiction to
repeated assertions from German
sources that the British offensive has
reached Its high water mark. It i taken
here to show conclusively that Ger
many Is thoroughly alarmed.
GUARDSMEN NEEDN'T WALK.
(iOTcrnmrnt Will Par Fares of Men
Who Leave Service.
It was announced at Governor's
Island last night that guardsmen on the
border who have been discharged at
their own request will have to pay their
fares and expenses back home. This
announcement w-aa felt to be a hard
blow to, many who had applied for dis
charge under the ruling that men whose
support was needed by their families
might leave the service.
From Washington later In the evening
a despatch came telllns of assurance
by the War Department that the guards
men will receive regular mileage al
I wance. An article In the army regu
lations says:
"When un enlisted man Is discharged
from the service except by way of
punishment for an offense or Is fur
loughed to the reserve he shall lie en
titled to transportation In kind and sub
sistence from the place of discharge or
furlough to the place nf his enlist
ment." RECORD FLYING BOAT TRIP.
Chlraa-n Man Covers 140 .Miles In
Tn-is Honrs Ten Mlnatea.
Atlantic Cit6, July 27. Kenneth
Jaqulth, son of a Chicago banker, cov
ered 140 miles In a flying boat this
afternoon In two hours and ten minutes.
Starting 'from Ksslngton In Philadelphia
at r, :20. It was twilight when the aviator
arrived and was greeted enthusiastically
by a great throng when he landed In the
Inlet.
Tho trip was made by a water route,
going down the Delaware to Cape May
and following the coast. He Intended tn
try for the long distance altitude rec
ord, but flew at 3,000 feet after running
Into a blinding thunderstorm.
"The trip," said the aviator, "was
made without adventure of any kind.
I had more speed, but took my time."
HITS WILSON'S MEXICO F0LICY.
Mrnatnr l,lpiltt Denounces Maklna;
Hnlillera Mark Time,
Washington, July 27, Senator Lip
pltt of Khudn Island to-day made a
spirited attack In thn Senate on the
Administration's Mexican policy.
He quoted the President's recent Mex
ican note In which the full list of Mex
ican atrticlllea was set forth and con.
tlnued i
"It Is Impossible to suppose that the
American Government, which now urges
these facts as an accusation against
Carrnnsa, was not aware of them at the
time lie was recognlxrd. And the result
of it all is Hint our palilollo yuuim men
are taken away from their families and
affairs to mark time In the heat of the
Mexican border, while the President
waits watchfully to decide which way
he will Jump next, nd hs calls all this
'serving the Mexican people.'"
AND NEW YORK PRE sW
WOMAN'S QUICK WIT
SAVES UNDERWOOD
Flags Special Train of Eric
Railroad President Just
Ahead of Landslide.
Frederick I), t'nderwood, president of
the Krle Railroad, Just missed death
tw-lce within a few hours. oiw hv lneW
nd an Inch and the other time by
seconds and a woman's quick wit.
Tile woman who saved him and mnnv
others Is Mrs. Alfred Malllit, wife of one
ma employees, the section foreman at
....,,M: r.niiy, ra. no was nt her
household unrlf M'i..ln..,l.,. ntt
when sho heard a dull rumbling. From
" j11"- pne a landslide had cov-
v.r.i mm iracKs. one could hear n
train In tli illtidmu ..... . i -1 ,
- " ' ' . "i.imh u i ru
nag she ran up the line nnd slopped It,
.ic iiitin wag a tour car special, with
Mr. lTndrwn-tn A t. MaI.I.. ....-i.i...
- ... u, ..avails, ( ll trciucitv
Of the I II nn lfiltlrt n...l .. .
- . "nil., ,,., ,1 ni ij u.
their associates aboard. Mr. t'nder-
woou and the conductor both thankid
Mrs. Malllet heartily and the railroad
magnates on tho ktieHfil .fv.,,i
pockets to the bottoms to make a sub
Mantla! gift of cash,
How an unmanageable motor truck
backed off the stern of a ferryboat Into
North Illvcr, grazing the hubs of Mr.
Underwood's, automobile and almost
shoving It Into the water was related In
Thk Hun yesterday morning. That was
only a few houm after the landslide.
SUBMARINE HUNTED HERE .
Ilnrnor That firemen Had Arrived
Stirs Mnn.
The persistency of the rumor that the
submarine merchantman Bremen Is com
ing to New Vork Inspired more than
100 pers.ms to call up Quarantine yes
terday nfternoon and last night and a
photographic and newspaper expedi
tion to launch Itnelf In the bay.
Quarantine asserted that a representa
tive of .1. ! Morgan & Co. had called
up and asked to bo notified the moment
the Bremen appeared off there, and this
Incident gave lupe to the submarine
hunters afloat last night.
In a vivid Hash of lightning off the
Hook Just after 9 o'clock the marine
observer faw two steamships coming In,
and astern of them he thought he
glimpsed a submarine. It was later sur
mised that the nautical lslon might
have been the low llng. deeply laden
Norwegian ' steamship Aldemey, from
Bombay and Cape Town by way of
St, Lucia.
At midnight Quarantine reported that
there was nothing jtuggestlve of n sub
marine In sight, and the Hook nttserver
Kot no other Mashes revealing rakish
craft
NEW VICEROY FOR IRELAND.
Asqalth Said to Have Decided to
Kml I'resent Healuie.
Spt'rlnl Ctihle If.pafr, to Tiir Siv,
London, Jfily 27. The Parliamentary
correspondent of the Daily .Vrics sas It
Is the geneial expectation In political
circles that the Government will appoint
another Chief Secretary for Ireland, and,
by Implication, another Viceroy, thus
ending the ptesent government of Ire
land, which Is practically In the hands
of a military commission.
He understands that Premier Asqulth
after his lslt to Dutilln wished to ap
point Karl Kitchener ns Viceroy. Ob
jections were raised In several quarters
and the proposal was abandoned.
BATTLES WITH DEAD AVIATOR.
American Kaclntr Air Snn Finds
ISrrmaii Pilot la Lifeless.
Special Cahlr JfnnirA lo Tun Scv
Paiiis, July 27.- Norman Prince, Klf
fln Hockwell and Lieutenant de Laage
fought a thrilling battle In the air with
three flerman aviators behind the (!er
man lines on Tuesday, according to a
despatch received fMin the front to
day. While Prince and De Laage fought
two of the (Jermans, Hockwell dived
under the third machine and attempted
to cut off Its tall. The fire from his
mitrailleuse raked the German machine
from tall to motor. Hockwell, however,
had two scares, one when he missed by
Inches striking the German with his
propeller nnd the second when. In the
course of the maneeuvrlng. he found him
self facing the enemy's mitrailleuse. It
was nn uncomfortable second, he relates,
until he discovered the operator was
sitting dead at his post.
65 VILLA BANDITS ROUTED.
Attacked lianch of llnaalle Her-
nandrsi Near Rnclnlllas,
CiiniPAiit'A f'lTV, July 27. Villa bin
dlts attacked the ranch of Ilnsalla Her
nandez, formerly a Villa General, near
Knclnlllas. about sixty miles north of
here, last Friday night, according to re
ports received by Gen. Jacinto Trevino
to-night.
The reports said the bandits, who
numbered sixty-five, undr the command
of Capl. Placldo Vlllanueva. wero driven
off after killing Jesus Hernandez, a
brother of Rosalia's, and fled In the di
rection of OJInaga,
Spies have brought reports to Gen.
Matlas Hamns, commanding the Govern,
ment forces In the Durango enmpilun,
that Villa, surrounded by thirty men In
K I'ainlno de Las Huertas, Is preparing
to make a desperate effort to break
through the cordon of Carranza troops to
leach a cache of ammunition.
WARSHIP'S STEWARD DROWNS.
Falls From Launch and Head lilts
Wharf.
Nrw Ixinpon, Conn., July 27, H. T,
Davis of Newark, N, .1., cabin steward
of the United States torpedo bout Wor
den, was drowned In the harbor near the
Government submarine base to-night,
Davis fell from a launch and his head
struck a wharf, the blow rendering him
unconscious. The body was recovered,
Davis at one time was middleweight
champion boxer In the navy.
HURRICANE MOVES ISLAND.
Rrraka It I'll Into Twelve Mrparale
Parts,
Monil.R, Ala., July 27. Chandeleur
Island, twenty-five miles southwest nf
Fort Morgan, broke Into twelve parts
and moved ISO yards during Ihe Gulf
coast hurricane of July S and 6, accord
ing tn Captain George J, Haiila Crux of
the ship Avenger, who reached her today.
M'CORMICK GETS NO !
HOPE FROM HARRIS i
To Lay Facts Refore Wilson
About. Defection of
State Leaders.
Tresldent Wilson's anxiety regarding
New York State conditions was respon-
slble, It was said, for a conference held consider the application of the New York
In Democratic national headquarters yes- Central Railroad to Increase Its passen
terday between IMwIn H. Harris, State ser rates. Tho commission dented the
chnlrmnu, and Vance McCormlck, na
tional campaign manager.
I Harris called at McCormlck's request
I to discuss reported defections nmong or
I g.inlzntlou leaders In this State, some of
i whom arc said to be working openly
I against Wilson In reprisal for the Presi
dent's recognition of their factional
, rivals. McCormlck, talking to the news
paper men later, said he expected to see
the President In Washington between
I now nnd Monday, when presumably he
1 will lay before Wilson the" Information
he obtained from Harris.
The Slate chairman's advice to Mi'.
Cormlck, according to report, was that
the cases of the disaffected organization
'leaders would require careful handling .!
I the greater part of the soreness would
I be healed In time, he thought, but some
Jof It probably was Incurable. It was
said Harris told the Presidential cam
paign manager that Wilson Is reaping In
this State the harvest of three years of
mismanagement ny Washington of New
York State Democratic affairs. encnuraE-
(Ins the factionalism that now Is operat-1
. tnir nir.ilriKt r.itmiulpn eiiieienev
, The United States Senatnrshlp In sue-
cession to Senator James A. O'Gormau, the New Ycrk Central's counsel, win
.who has announced his Intention not to ; said In penlng the case In the tlrst In
iseek a renumlnatlon, was discussed, stance that the railroad would not go
Presldeut Wilson is understood to favor Into the question of valuation because
the aspirations! of tiatnuel I'ntertuyer. ' It would be emburrasslns at a time when
Cntermjer had a talk with National the Interstate Commerce Commission
Chairman McCormlck on Wednesday ) was conducting a valuation of all the
"Is Fntcrmyer hopeful?" McCormlck railroads In the country: and further,
was asked yesterday. The national chair- be tuse such a step wns unnecessary, as
man smiled. 'ho expected to prove that the Intrastate
"There arc about n dozen men candl- passenger expenses exceeded Intrastate
dates, I suppose they might be called passenger lewnues without cnslderlns
all of whom npiwar hopeful." he replied, any return on the Investment.
A question that came up between liar- Then, quoting the opinion of Commls
rli. and McCormlck had to do with the 'sloner Curr. on which the case was
probable Progressive support which Wll- originally decided, to-day's memorandum
son can count on In this State. It was says the evidence tended to show tint
said Harris told him It was not to be ex- while on the main line, with rates
peeled that the Progressives who are i
planning to combine with the Democrats
o:i a Governorship candldato would sup
port v u.-on also.
PRUDENTIAL STRIKE FARLEY.
Trrn Labor Commissions To-day
Will Try to Mettle Dispute.
An attempt to adjust the differences
between the Prudential Insurance Com
pany and Its striking agents will be
made to-day 'by two labor commissions I
W. II. W son, Secretary of the 1'nited
States Department of Labor, has sent
Itowland II. Mahany to act as conclll-
wlth
Tod .-e J rn ,U
ne and c.eorge L. It.-cnrd, the
. Thome
i strike! s' lawyer.
I Itis'ord, acting for the strikers
i file a statement outlining their i
, m
trlii
' nn,',iM Willi tlm VnrU l,wl,.url .1
Com nl-lo to-Vl iv I, , , e n len..t V .1, o ina nggregatine :.oo on frm thc tracks and hit a pillar of the
I si eve , it Jkewood Hst !e ft d 1 ,V i t- ,r PCI ' ' , . Broadway. t now um:ly. which Is elevated at that point,
pen II at l-kewood last night .demand- develops that thee mnrtgiiges dd not. TMe car wis ilemnllslieil nnd the
i ng proper protection for- the Industrial cover four Inches of land between the orn.nn huried headlong to the tnv
, Insurance agents and calling for a legls-. northerly wall of the building an.l the ' "V r . ..... . .T L..?i i "k.. 'V!..
latlvo Investigation of the Prudential. t
TELLS HOW SEE0ER DIED.
Ilarrrt Ms Kxplosltr llullrts From
Machine linns lilt Hint.
Special fable herpatch to Tnr. Sin
Paris. July 27 Corporal Barret .f
the Legionnaires In a letter reeehed by
friends here tells how Alan Seeger, the
American warrior-poet of the Foieign
I.eglcn, died.
Kc-er w.-iu nnnmii.,! i,o,rii,i.. i...
plosive bullets from six machine guns I
..1.1.1. . - .. .
Allien met hip nrsi wave or tne r rench i
attack and caused heavy French louses
nt the village of Delloy-en-Santerre. He
was struck In the breast, the nlslonien,
and the knees Just ns he reached the
entrance to the vlllege. Depuech. an
other American, was wounded at the
same tunc. rne Germans. Hnrret as
serts, used no ammunition of the ordi
nary sort, but used explosive bullets,
tear shells and asphyxiating gas bnmlie.
VERMONT ROAD TO KEEP BOATS
One l.lnr to Xetv London nnd One
In Pro lilence Authorised.
Advices from Washington yesterday
said Hint the Central Vermont railway
had received authority to continue tho
operation of steamboats between New
York and New London, Conn, and l
Install n similar service between New
Yntk and Providence, despite the pro
hibition In the Panama Canal act again .t
railroad ownership nf steamship linen,
The hearing nn the application of the
New Haven road for authorlly to con
tinue control of Its Sound boats was re
sumed yesterday In this city before John
II, Howell, examiner of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Adrian II, Boolo,
n government witness, testified that th
New Haven elms two or three times ,n
much for freight going out of New ling
land, whero there Is no competition, as
for freight going Into New Hnglalal,
where competition exists.
$12,000,000 MORE TO SUBWAYS.
Prrnilcra-ast Tells Hoard fUU,MM,.
(1(1(1 Will lie Xeeded.
All expenditure of mnro thnn 97.7.in,.
000 for the dual subway system over the
estimated cost of 9t 64,000,000 was au
thorized at yesterday's Board of Kstl
mate meeting. To. day an Item of
St.fiOO.nno for the yueensborn tunnel will
come up, milking a total of over S12,
000,000 authorized above the estimate.
Comptroller Preudersnst pointed out
that the Public Service Commission had
reported that during this year S22.000,
000 extra must be appropriated and
that tho SI 2,000,000 was half of It.
BUS LINE FOR CITY ISLAND.
Franchise tirnnted for I II tl-n Cent
llmitr From Prlhnni Ray Park.
The Bronx Is lo have a sx rides for
a dollar hus Hue. The Board of llstl
mate granted a franchise yesterday In
the City Island Motor Bus Companv.
Inc., to run omnibuses from City Island
to Pelham Bay Park at this rate.
The company will pay 9 1, (inn down for
the franchise. It will also pay the city
IVi per cent, of the gross receipts, with
a minimum of 1500 a year.
RATE RAISE DENIED
TO THE N. Y. CENTRAL
Public Service Board Rejects
Application for 2 1-2 Cents
a Mile Fare.
Al.nANT, July 27. The up-State Pub
lic Service Commission refused to-day to
application of the road for a rehearing
on the an.dlcatl.il already refused to
put passenger fares In the Slate on a
uniform two and one-half cents a mile
basis except nn the main line between
Albany nnd Buffalo.
The memorandum of the commission
accompanying to-day's order Indicates
that the company Is at liberty to come
to the commission nt any time with any
tther schedules of rates Involving pos
sible lncteases.
The Central In Its application for n
rehearing asked to be permitted to In
clude In the case now dlsmlsed an In
crease nf the rate on the muln line be'
tween Albany and Buffalo, which has
been kept at two cents u mile since the
Hcad'lns thai thV nV," d.n of Vh';
Court of Appeals which permitted the
commission to Increase the mileage book
rate of the I.'lster and Delaware Railroad
miln t'i, fn ih ..,.m,i.io' I
to set aside the statutory limit on the
'v.... V..-L- ,....-. 1'.
" The decision Jiuotes C C Pauldinc. I
ranging from 2 to 2.17 cents n mile, the
road was earning a fair return, there
were other lines where the rates were
probably unremunernthe and s me
where they were discriminatory.
SUES FOR 4 INCHES OF LAND.
Hank .Weeks tn Clear Title to
nrondnay Property.
In an effort lo establish clear title to
four Inches of land at fit Broadway.
?hJc,,Wi,'. overlooked ten ears ago In
, " " , ' ,i"' V" I , """J"" ""
L" f". . "'w.in '"T "'fn
ttuw
""' ''11 'lel- known, wa- forced Int.,
bankruptcy. The case was closed In 1003
V' .," ,,r"',r'' discharged. It ha.pened
V.1'11 ,",f:,r",,,V Proieedlugs were begun
r ""n""' flv7' "rtKK-i t the
. ..
northerly line of the land.
r,.?? ?':"TrJ'' not, a,,;!"1W'. th'l llrooklMi. and William Dorant of 2333
case can be reopened to clinch t tie to'.-.,....' , n.,.. ,
th .r... I
GREAT EAGLE FLIES OVER CITY
lllsca lllKhrr anil llluln-r In Mplrnl
nnd Moars tn the Month.
Soaring high above th, city's smoke
.M'sterday afternoon an linn tt.illv large
I eagle missed over lrm-pr tf,,it,fiff n,
nrooaiyn iieiguts and i sanncared over
's,n,,, Island. Those who tlrst oh.
nerved tho crnae l.lr.l tl,,,,.,,. I
...... ...... .n, ,, nnn ,,n
aeroplane, but they were nulcklv ills
lllusloned when the eagle roue higher
and higher, flapping Its wings as It
turned for each ascending spiral.
Inquiry at tlm Bronx and Central
l;trl.- viiau f,lt...l
missing large bird, so it Is believed tle,,hr T, of I""" w" '' erecting
esgle must have come south from e Ml"''niomoH lu Park avenue are mak
Adirondack or Catskllls. Ing,that avenue the leading rival of l lfth
N. Y. CARS DELAYED 137 DAYS.
. '
Wnaons. l-lrcs. Ac. United Trnl-
Ies 1.1, .'till Times In Vrnr,
According to a report compiled bv thei"1'1"' l'""''l- dwelling which will cost
New Vork llallwavs Comnam. ii irn.. nearly Sl,000.00u will be elected, It Is
cars or .New lorn during the venr end
ing Jure 30, iron, covered 4,!IAtV.ifi
miles, nut iiecause of vehicles getting
the wa, fires or other obstruction thyl" flnm npirliucnt builders. There are
were delayed l.r,3P.i times for live tulii-1 tuUr 01,1 dwellings on It now. To the
llles or moie, nils was (54 ner cent, nf
nil detentions. The total number nf de.
tentlops amounted to 23.S24 tlines.vvhl.il
delajoil the tr.iflle 107, 106 minutes, or
137 days.
About 2,757 delajs were due to acci
dents, .t.Siia to enr troubles, 1,07,-, hi
track conditions and 372 to power trouble.
The actual lime consumed by delavs
caused ,y vehicles alone was (12,727 mill,
utes, or about forty-four days.
FARM LOAN BOARD NAMED.
Kalians, l'i-niin Iv miln. Invvn nnd
West Ylrttlula llrprraeiilcd.
WvaiiiNOTON, July 27 -President Wll
son sent to the Senate tn-dny the
nominations of the four members 'of the
Farm Loan Board, which will have gen
oral supervision of the farm land bank
system provided by the recently enacted
rural credits law. The men named hic
Judge Charles H, Lnbdell of Great Bend,
Kan , Geoige W. Norrls of Philadel
phia; Cnpt. W. S. A. Smllh of Sioux
City, In., and Herbert ijulck of
lletkeley Spilngs, W. Va. The nomina
tions are made for two, four, six and
eight years lespecllvely Messrs. Lob
dell and Smllh are Hepub leans and Nor
rls and Quick Democrats The Indict
lions are that there will be little oppoal
tlnn to tho nppolnlments,
As snnn ns the board Is organized It
will hold hearings at Stnte rnpllals to
obtain Information for dividing the
country Into twelve farm loan districts
and designating the cities for farm loan
hanks.
Sen lleturiiB nrnirnrd Itor.
Vincent Lund, 17. who lived with Mt
parents during the summer at Plimpton
nvenue and thn Boulevard, Hockaway
Beuch, was drowned yesterday afternoon
while swimming in the ocean, An hour
later his body was wsshsd ashore near
Center streel, nockawiy Beach,
750 VANLOADS OF
FURNITURE BURN UP
Storago Warehouse Fire At
tracts Thousands Loss
Estimated $1,000,000.
Seven hundred and fifty vnnloads of
furniture were consumed last nlsht
about 10 o'clock when the building ex
tending from U!0 to H32 Amsterdam
nvenue. between l.'.nili nnd I Mxl ulreeln
was nearly destroyed by fire. W asiiinuton, July 27. The Senate
The two upper floors were occupied by passed the army bill to-day nnd In so
the l-'needa Storage and Van Company, , Uolluf i.rought the total of proposed 1017
and the household goods stored here, i . . , ., . ., , . .
valued at $75u.uti0, were destroyed, ac-' appropriations for national defence up
rordlng to Albert ftartog, president of to S85,343,017.
the company. The building Itself cost; This srand total for preparedness
1300,000. It was the most spectacular I ,. ..... , . . . , ,
fire seen In the Washington Heights ' ""Wect to rcWslon, however, be
district and drew lii.OOO persons to the eauso the army bill will follow the
scene. The Amsterdam avenue surface , naval bill Into conference, where tc
cars were blocked, while every piece of . duc,ons nr probable despite the firm
moned by four nlarm, was used.
The smoke was so dense that the tire-
I men had to work In relays. The re
serves of the West 177th, 162d and lsam
street stations had to be railed out to
handle thn crowds, some of whom were
driven from neighboring apartment
houses.
Several of the stores on the ground
floor of the structure were badly dam
.i''"" JrLS
millinery, delicatessen, Jewelry and sroi
eery tore.
A large clock tower nn the building
collapsed during the tire. Battalion
Chief Charles W. Rankin was In ranse
"f tm; '""'"B ,,rlen, m' hl" i''"
was broken, nnd Battalion thief Joe
Hennessy hail his head cut by Hying
fragments. Both were taken In an auto-
mobile to Washington -Heights Hospital.
BROADWAY GETS FIRE THRILL.
.
Fuse
lllonont In Mnlivray Work
shop Alarms Crowd.
A fuse blew out In tlie compresor
room over the workshop of the new
Mlliway In Broadway between l'orty-
Midway in irurtti,iy in wcri IJ
third a,,,. Forty-fourth streets last nigh,
tnd started n tire that sent flames out
Into the street. The i rowd In Broad
way thought the subway was afire and
workmen poured out of the excavation
An electrician led a group of volun
teer fire fighters to attack the blaze
and their work made It possible for the
firemen to put It out ns sewn as they
arrived. Traffic was tied up on Seventh
avenue and Broadway for a short time.
STRIKE BREAKER DIES; 7 HURT
Lose Control of Car and
Others
Tile 1'P In Wreck.
One man was killed and seven hurt
In a trolley wffjk at Tremont avenue
and Boston road early this morning,
when a strike breaker, acting as motor- legislation on an appmrriut Ion bill a nd doing their utmost to get on- the
, toot .n,,,-,,! f i.ia repugnant to the rules of tlm Senate. I conductors and the motnrmeii tin tl i
man. lost control of his car. Scnat.r Iteed appealed, but the Sen- IThl-d Wenuo -It.-.ct ltallv.av. ".f ah
The deiil man, who was only known ate refused to entertain his appeal, re. tho L'nlon Hallway Is a part. .Million,
a B Iiorn, was guiding thc first ' fused a roll call, and the matter went I Fitzgerald, Hush Frajne. State "organ
of a string of four cars that were golngl""! ' I'M. The bill then passed. i Iz ;er of the Ameti.-an Federation of .n-
east nn Tremont avenue. When at Bos-
, r.,.,,1, ,.r(. ,h(.re H a sharp curve
,j w .. an Incline, the strike breaker failed
, .,,. ,,,H brali nllll thn oar jllmpe,
"I'l"? I"'" "i"ii '
i i . ' .. ' i" . VJ.i. ..i..;.'
ioi"'K piai e, t oe nriMi., ere dun.
Thc three cars behind smashed Into
the wrecked cur, piling up on the mass
of debris. The other men Injured were
Joseph Wagner of 1 1 : Liulslana nvenue.
Brooklyn ; John Berper of ,ih Moore
street. Brooklyn, and George Murray
" i, ,.'.i f. ..i.'.n,., n.
of the cars. The men wero taken tn
Lebanon, Lincoln and Fordham hospb
tills.
PARK AVE. HOME FOR DAVISON.
Morgan Partner Acquires Htt Font
Frontager nt (ll'th Mtrret.
Henry P. Davison, partner In the firm
of J, P. Morgan & Co.. Is solus to Join
j inniiM- i ii i i niuiii i.i i niiiinii.u ,t, . " n
clln fur lilw iinu tin ni Mr Itii'lMim li.m
Purchased the southwest corner of Park,
avenue and Sixty-ninth street, opposite
V'e llf"' r,,'fnr' of Arthur CilMlss)
,iiin.'.-. 111 I'liu nun -'i iii.iniii.1'
on Park avenue and fill feet on Sixty-
said.
Commodore James assembled this plot
when he put up his on n residence to keep
norm anil eiiinii me avenue na-i neen
built with costly dwellings nnd the bent
tpe of apartments, In selling the Sixty
ninth stieet site to Mr. Davison Mr.
James s said tn hnve gained a substan
tial profit as well as a desirable neighbor.
MEAT FAMINE THREATENS.
Thousand nf Hinployera of St
Louis Packing; Plants Ntrlke.
Mast
St. Iu'is. July 27 A meat
famine
for SI. Uiuls was threatened
when emploeesof tlie big packing plants
here went on strike to-day. Leaders ns.
serl (hat 1,300 workmen Joined a newly
organized union nnd that all employees
will quit work unless the union is recog.
lllzed
Hubert 13. Conway, superintendent nt
the Armour ft Co. plant, declared that
the union would not be recognized.
IDENTIFIED AS BOMB T0SSER.
Ilx-Ceiiii let Whs on Hi'iof With Suit
Case, W'nninn Nna.
i.im '"N'isio, Jill) warren iv.
1 '''"llbeHere .V.n.'o ' he"
who the p,i ie believe, planted the sul
case bomb that exploded at a crowded
dnwnfown corner and killed nine mid
wounded more than forty during the
preparedness parade Saturday, vya Ideu-
..... ... ..a ...
tilled tn-day by Miss Kslelle Smith. She
said he was the man she saw with a suit
case mi n roof near the scene of the
explosion a few minutes before the bomb
burst,
tilrl Kite Flier Killed b Fall.
Winifred Menlhey, S yearn old, was
flying a kite on the roof of the four
story house she lived In at fi(19 Greene
avenue, Brooklyn, early last evening
when she ran over the edge and was
killed by falling tn the yard.
$685,343,017 FOR
NATIONAL DEFENCE
Senate Increases Army Bill
Appropriations to Total
of 93U,000,000.
NO VOTES FOR SOLD1EHS
Amendment Adopted to Pro
vide for Families of Men
on the Rordcr.
attitude of President Wilson In support
ing the liberal response of tho Senate
to the call for adequate defence.
The appropriations for preparedness
as they now stand are as follows:
Army ,
Navy
Fortifications ,
Military Academy..
Army and Navy De
flcleucy ,
1313,070.447.10
3I&.S20.S13.&5
.2ri,7tS,jO.00
2.23b, 32i.ii7
27,!n,S,34S.05
Total 1645,342,017.27
Voir Amendment llrfrntrd.
The Senate eliminated from the army
1411 the amendment put In yesterday by
Senator Heed of Missouri providing for
taltlns the votes of tho soldiers on the
I 1(order at the November election.
I An amendment offered bv Senator La
, Follettc (Wisconsin) to pay dependent
families of soldier, up to a limit of D0
a month was adopted under suspension,
of the rules after It had been amended I
to Include regulars as well as guards-1
men. An appropriation of 2,uo0,000
for this purpose was Included.
Senator Heed's amendment for taking
1 .1. 1 .u i u i
1 ".en In lh. field in e
election this fall went out under pecu
liar circumstances. The army bill had
passed from the committee of the
whole Into the Senate for further con-
slderatloti and its parliamentary status
was su.h that ihe amendments agreed
to In'thc committee of the whole were
subject to ratification In the Senate.
.Senator Joins, Washington, expressed
the opinion that the Heed amendment
should provide for reglsttatlon. Sena
tor Williams. Democrat, of .Mississippi
. showed opposition. He said if tlm mat-
a point of order against the amendment
tl.it he had withheld when the bill was
i . ' ., " i... .i,i.
UJ III llic tuiiiuitivwc i ,uv biivii.
After some discussion me eenator - . . n.n juuh see wncn it
made the point, and the Vice-President hnppens. Wo are ni.iklng no predlc
promptly upheld It on the ground that i Hons."
the nmendinent was new and general) This miirli Is certain: th ,ir'i.,,...
Prlncliml Increases.
irinnpai tiurrases.
The following are the main Increases
made In the bill In the Senate.
For Signal Corps The House appro
priated 03.775.OOU; Senate S14.t27.000.
The Senate directed, however, that not
more than 913.SSt.GGA shall bo used for
the purchase, manuf.icluie and upkeep
of air craft.
Pay of officers of the line House np-pr-imatlon,
S2,225,00U; Senate, 911,400,
000. Pay of National Guard officers
Houe, S2.22ri.UU0, Ucnate, 911, tiin.dOD.
Pay .if enlisted men In National
Guard House, f7,7SO,nQfl; Senate, S23,-
OUO.uuu,
j Foreign service, pay for olucors. 10
jut rem. iiiliimbi: viim-,-. ,.ui',vvu ,
Senate. S3,17v,240,
Foieign service, pay for enlisted men,
20 per cent. Increase House, SSUO.000 ,
Senate, 91l.00o.000.
Subsistence of thc army House, 913,
OoO.OliO i Senate, S2O,n0O,O00.
yuarternuster's supplies House. SS,
700.000 ; Senate, 92.i.:5n,0u0.
TransiHirlatlon House, 912,000,000 ;
Senate. 925.000,000.
Clothing, garilson and camp equipage
House, 912,000,000; Senate, 92u,
2S0.OOO. Purchase of horses House, 93.S00,
000; Senate, reduced to 92,ri0,O0i),
Barracks and quarters House, S2,
750,00(1, Senate, S3,S!oi,0uil.
Hospital Appropriation. ,
Mpilk..,
Corps and hospital House,
Senate. St.niio.noo, I
I- I (in ii
Ordnance) stores and ammunition,
mall arms House, 94,450,ooo, Senate,
9 l2.T"rt.itO'.
Small ,irm tarset practice and am-munitlon--llouse,
91,2UO,nno, Senate,!
S3. CM, "Oil.
oriluaiite stores and supplies House,
SC,ono,i)iiO . Senate, 91 l.inlo.iloii.
Automatic machine suns House, S3,
dOO.noii . Senate, 97,:25.0mo.
Automatic machine ilfles for National
Guard House, 92.000.noO, Senate, 9C,.
5SG.000.
Armored motor car House, 9.100,
00. Senate, 9 l.OOO.uoi)
Field nrtlllei.v for National Guard
Mouse, .m.i.. s.eaie, u,-on,
Ammunition for Held artlllerv for N.i-
V;nni'l,!lO,oo,;ll'',,!'', 'S,"'V 1 S""'l
ate, fH. 11011,0
Plittsbuig and other citizens' canqw.
House, 92.000,(inn. Senile, 94 300.000
House, 92.O00,0n0 .
I The Senate bill restores the age limit 1
to VJ .yars Inst.-nd of is years as pro-'
vlde.l for In the recently enacted army
, reorganization bill.
The bill now goes to conference, when;
an effort will be made to work
out
the dlffeinici
FERNALD WINS IN MAINE.
tirts
llrpiilillcnii Semite iioiliin.
Hon Over (iirrnar).
Pocti.ami, Me. July 27 The iinnilna-
tlou of former I lovernor Bert M Fernnlil
it n iiriiiiiiiiiiui i.iiiiiiuiii. inr i iiiipni
states Sen itor to succeed the late L'dwin
P' ',"rl"lK" 'n" " to-night, w l e
,,., , rltllrllH ()f .Monday's special
efe practically all In.
Wm, eighteen towns and plantations
mR,,ng. total vote. In which would be
ln., in Mr Ferinl.l had a plur-
allty of 532 over Congressman Frank
II. Guernsey.
,
llnlae for II.OIM) Milk Drivers.
A nnssllile milk famine was averted h
the mettopiilltan dlslilct by Ihe signing
nf an agreement .veslcrday between III
Milk Dealers Association nnd the Milk
Drivers l'nlon The agreement iauts
6,000 dilvers an nveracc Increase of 12
a week as well as recognition of the
union, demands for which the drivers
were ready to slilke.
GAR MFN PLAN
(MAI m JasaV AA a I
STRIK SPREAD
TO OTHER LINES
Union Leaders Now Ex
hortftiff Third Ave. Em
ployees to Organize.
SEEKING TO INVOLVE
20,000 31 EX IN N. Y.
Agents tio Among Inter
boro and $. If. T. (j minis,
(I'ondnetors, 3Iotormen.
WOODS SENDS BHONX
STRONG A KM SQFAD"
Sheriff O'lirien at U V. 31.
Orders Few Kniming Cars
There Into Ifcirns.
All New York miy have to walk In
few day If the plan of tho or-
1 Kinlzers of street car workers are suc-
.cessful. Tho
! , , hmuo "mcn
.MJrtcit last Saturday In Westchester
county nnd extended to The Bronx on
t.,i. ... . . ...
' "pecu-u ny ue or-
ganlzers to receive tin; svmpathetlo
rllnl ... r ,. b " .,....
"PP0" t,le " kers on the aubwnj .
elevated and surface transit lines In
Manhm
1 niJii, tkii.utituiiu iiim
That was tho belief jesterdnv nf
i.-,i.i.. . . . .,. .', ' ,
lAnu" A' Mcr. Jr., Icr-prcsldent
nnd general manager of the 1'ninn
: . ,.,.m,.,.. ..,, .,
, -".( wvv. II.O
have) lcn affected thus fur. When
William H. Fitzgerald, the stroii
Jawed, quiet voiced organizer of the
railway men from Troy, was nsked
about the report after ho had spent an
: ' ' " ""; ";".
I """al. f . hp ,rra .r;'' " ,y
,men, ne smiled significant v nnd s.ild.
, ..V,.,'!! .. ,,,
iniii ice- irfeiueni
of triirt!.ii.il street railway men,
i and William I-'. Co,n. another oig.tn-
' izer oi me .Muer.caii l edeiatlon nf I
bor, were all busy yeslerdav trvln-. m
influence) the Thud Avenue cuiplovees
to quit.
S.striu III Seeking Converts.
Tho strlUe leaders have a lemark -bl
ejtcm of workers seeking convcr
to iIm railway men's union. All Wednc
day nlgnt and all yeMetday Hiomi hi, -i
were working 'among the Th id ,v -i
tm men, iiigins their eiippiui i t rt
P.ht n gains, 'he Ci.inii H.nlwav it
was the next inov ihe i-t .lie' le.n
ers. having painljzed the u.illl. hi T in
j n,'ollx , ,,' 'J' ' ' ,' 1
1111,1
inn wie sirihe lemlels. w t n t
j making any prophecy, shovvcl In the r
."" i eii.1 infill in. u iney w.io ,-on-
fldellt of viieet's-.
But Fitzgerald and his fclb.w strate
slsts weie not lest.ng thete Thi-v had
agents riding all night on tin, hi'ihwav
nnd the elevated l.hw, talking with tho
umductnin and ursing their nssistancc.
They had men wot king ainoii tlm II I:.
T. employees, pointing out that now
was tho time to quit work and Join
thn union.
The veiled hints of a general paialvils
of transportation facilities within 'tha
city was made after .Million. Fltzgeiald
and the other org miners had conferied
for moie than an hour vesiei.lay after
noon at the Hotel 'miment.il
It llu Affect 'JU,(MMI to a.-(l(MI Urn
('lie of the ronferie sttgges,ted Ihe
possibility of a monster strike of thn
B. It. T Ihe, subway, elevated, Hud
son lubes and surface lines Theie a'e
Utweep 20.O0II and 25.000 men em-piovi-J
on these lines as conducting and
moiormeii.
"We aie starting out to organize the
men In the Third Avenue nd In the
other transit lines," said Fltzeei.iM.
"We know the men are in a receptive
mood and we will give them every op.
portunlly to Join ns. After the men n
organized then tho question will come up
1 ns tn whether they will strike for their
i Jut rights or not. In comparison with
other t Hies the conditions under with h
,.,, . .;;
utile "
'''"n.ld adml.led that workers we,,
. ,,... mm i ...... ...
Wllllam U-hman.' a sinking 'oo .
,t,,r ,,r ii,- v' ' ." . .1,'
inonx. was arraigned' befor.. Mau'lstr He
simm In the Ynrkvlll- .ou'rt on ihe
rlnuge of dlsnrderlv conduct because be
wa ,,, distributing a lirculir among
the Thlnl Avenue mpln.wes, uiging
them to unionize and s on sinke
lie was discharged by the .M'islMmte.
1'ronress r.lilU's Strike Lenders.
Fitzgerald and hl allies seenie I elated
with the progtess of tin' strike n West
Chester and The Hnm- lo the first
county there was nut ,i wheel turn ng.
Ill The llrnnx about inie-llf'h .f tho
J stieet cars were moving and ihey w,mh
! o'clock every cir was onlere I to tho
barn by She', Iff O Bnen nf The Bronv
Tlm strikers' lead-rs. lies, e I, ng ths
I men to lefrun iron, v se.-,..,I
satisfied with Hi. fact that up to ,ni,.
night there had been only llfiren atresia
! .U their men The i.rlwas iip.iny had
i ui ,,iiiik iiiii'ii i.ri,i, .,.
' one iKiiib'nt in whnli seven person.
were Injuied
i The foregoing bnef reum of th
events III III" lirntlV nowevei lines inn
suggest Ihe evitetiient tin' P'cva led III
111 it bolollgll through"!!' Ihe lla.V IIm
efforts of the sitllo is i,, . niiii.i their
men, in" ii.ii "i . i' I-'.-..
of nels of vmleiii e lb.- r'ie ng "f
crowd al cm lie's w e'e nllovelsliM
oreuried between si' l.ei i ' sir he
breakers, and 'lie i . of
persons who weie ' I" 11 vv i'l
Nor do tl'c'e in lef ' lime tell of
X
