9f4mB$&&
,?&& f&gt&ii&F
)S,if P6
45
FINANCIAL EDITION
UMiger
MIGHT
EXTRA
icttimi
NIGHT
C2vl KA
Vol. n. no. 272
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 101G.
CorTiionr, 1010, bt in PDBtw Lmwra Couriitt.
PRICE GKB GJOKT
p. - gr
Mi 7Tv -.
J
.5 ,
11
fivf
r '
1
"V
BRITISH EXTEND
SOMME GROUND
IN NEW ATTACK
Gain Delville Wood and Ad
vance Near Pbzieres
and Longueval
STRAIGHTEN OUT LINE
Teutons Win Neuvo Chappello
Trenches, but Arc Soon
Ejected
The capture of the whole of Delville
wood and further" progress near
Pozicres and Longueval by the British
were announced by the London War
OfTlce today In the official report on the
operations on the Sommc front. The
Germans have been cleared out entirely
fr6m Delville wood, despite the des
perato efforts of the Brandcnburgers
to retain the small corner of the posi
tion left in their hands after yester
day's terrific fighting. Strong counter
attacks by the Germans to regain tho
wood wero crushed by tho combined
forco of British guns and infantry.
Delville wood is on tho highway be
tween Longueval and Flcrs, east of
Longueval and north of tho Watcrlot
farm, about which some of tho blood
iest fighting since tho initial successes
of the British oh the Sommc front has
raged.
German troops succeeded in entering
British trenches near Neuvo Chap
pello, farther north of tho Sommo lino,
but wero ejected by counter-attacks.
Tho army of the Crown Prince re
newed its efforts on tho Verdun front
but failed to win any ground, the Paris
War Office reported this afternoon.
Tho Germans delivered their attacks on
tho right bank of the Mcusc, but tho
attacks wero beaten back.
Russian troops fighting with tho
French opened an offensive in Cham
pagno, raiding German trenches and
bringing back prisoners.
HAIG'S TROOPS NOW HOLD
ALL OF DELVILLE WOOD;
STIFFEN ENTIRE FRONT
y jfvtw ; . --
ONDON, July 28.
After a night of. violent fighting the Brit
ish forces north of the Sommo now occupy
the whole of Delville wood).
The British War Omco 'in an oftlclal re
port Issued early this afternoon announced
the complete occupation of the wood.
The greater part of Delville wood had
been taken by the British on Thursday
after it had been raked for hours by guns
of every calibre.
However, the Germans managed to re
tain a small corner of It. Fresh assaults
were undertaken by the British and the
Germans were soon driven from their de
fensive works among the blasted trees after
fierce hand-to-hand fighting.
Strong counter-attacks were delivered by
tho Germans In an effort to retake the
wood, but all of these were repulsed.
Renewed assaults in the region of Po
slerea also won the British more ground
and a gain was made near Longueval, the
official report stated.
Farther north on tne battle front the
Germans attempted a counter-offensive and
succeeded In entering British trenches near
Neuve Chappelle, but were afterward
thrown out by counter-attacks.
The gains of the British at Delville wood,
Longueval and Fozleres enabled them to
straighten their line, and give them a firmer
grip on 'the high ground for which they
have been contending so stubbornly.
The following Is the text of the official
report:
After severe fighting we drove out
the Ffth Brandenburg Division that
had retained positions In Delville wood,
capturing 3 officers and 158 men. The
whole wood Is now in our hands. Tw5
German counter-attacks were beaten off
with heavy losses. We have made fur
ther progress at Longueval village and
near Fozleres, At the latter place we
captured 48 wounded Germans.
During the night the guns of the
enemy were active against our new
positions. There were heavy .artillery
duels in various sectors.
At Neuve Chappelle small parties of
Germans succeeded In entering our
trenches at some points, but were Im
mediately driven out by counter
attacks, leaving some wounded.
Northeast of Souchez and at other
points our artillery shelled the enemy's
front line and communication trenches.
The following report on the Mesopotamlan
campaign was Issued by the War Office:
The Mesopotamia situation Is quiet
and unchanged. Two of our gun
boats were fired on from the banks of
the Euphrates Khldr River. Our boats
Continued on fate Tour, Column One
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
trally cloudy tonight and Saturday;
probably warmer Saturday; moderate
winds, mostly northeast.
XJSSOTK OP PAY.
Bun rlua 4 .84 a m lllopn rUes... 3 JO a.m.
6ua et. .. 7.19 p.m. IMoon wuttu.ll.-oj a m.
DKLAWAHE BIVEH TIDE CHANCES.
CHESTNUT STREET.
Hlh wtr., 12.13 a,m.Hlsh water. .12.33 p.m.
lw water... 7.30 o.ra.lLow watte... 789 p.m.
TEMPEBATCBB AT RCII UOVB.
81 91 101"
10 nr
ll 3l
73 j 73
741 74
771 771
LOST AND FOTJNP.
ItEfi BAB PIN Loat. 41t t to Uj St.. chud sold
tK. bar pin, about SVi locaea long. llward. fioi
RUSSIANS NEAR
BRODY; BATTER
GATES OF CITY
Slav Troops Only Five Miles
From Great Galician
Stronghold
TOWN KEY TO LEMBERG
Petrogivid Reports Progress in
Region of Barano
vichi The important Galician city of Brody,
commanding tho Lcmberg-Rovno rail
way, one of the strategic "spokes" of
tho Lemberg "wheel," domination of
which the forces of General Brussiloff
nro endeavoring to obtain, is now under
firo of Russian artillery. Tho Russians
have advanced to within five miles of
tho city, and arc striking terrific blows
at the Austro-Gcrman army of Gen
eral Bochm-Ermolli, defending it. Tho
fighting is particularly vicious north,
east and south of Brody, in tho region
of Lcszniow and around Radzivilow.
Heavy fighting is in progress south
of Baranovitchl and particularly on tho
Schitsachara River. At this point tho
German army of Princo Leopold of Ba
varia, tho conqueror of Warsaw, is
battling desperately to keep the Rus
sians from gaining pbsscssion of im
portant lines of communication.
In Asia Minor tho army of Grand
Duko Nicholas is pushing its relentless
pursuit of the Turks, scattqrlng the
flower of tho Ottoman army in its de
moralized flight toward Dlvrik and
Iarnhissar.
BRODY AND OUTLYING.
DEFENSES UNDER FIRE OF
RUSSIANS' ARTILLERY
PETROGRAD, July 28.
Russian troops aro now within five miles
of Brody, tho gateway to Lomberg on tho
northeast, and are pressing home strong
blows against the Gorman and Austfo-Hun-garlan
forces defending tho city. Brody
and Its outlying defenses arc under the firo
of the Russian guns, and Its captura Is be
lieved to be imminent. Thero Is vicious
fighting north", east and south of Brody,
probably In the region south of Lesznlow
and around Radzivilow.
Brody la about two and one-half miles
Inside the Galician line. It Is 1G miles
south of the Btyr River. The strategic
Continual on Tore Four, Column 1'lvo
GERMANS EXECUTE SHIP
MASTER WHO TRIED TO
RAM SUBMARINE U-33
Captain Fryatt, of British
Steamship Brussels, Condemned
to Death as "Franc-
Tireur" of Sea
REWARDED BY BRITAIN
BERLIN (via Sayvllle wireless), July 28.
Captain Charles Fryatt, of the British
steamship Brussels, which was captured by
tho Germans, has been executed, following
the passage of a death sentence upon him
by a naval field court, sitting at Zeebrugge.
The charge against him was that he tried
to ram the German submarine U-33 on
March 28, 1915, In the North Sea.
The following official version of the pro
ceedings were given out today by the Ad
miralty to the Overseas News Agency:
"At Zeebrugge on July 27 there was a
session of a field court of the naval corps
to try Captain Charles Fryatt, of the Eng
lish steamship Brussels, which had been
brought In as a prize, Fryatt was sentenced
to death, although not belonging to the
armed forces, because on March 28, 1915,
near Maas Lightship he tried to ram the
German subntarlne U-33, Fryatt, the first
officer and the first engineer received from
the British Admiralty gold watches for
brave conduct' and were mentioned in the
House of Commons.
"The U-33 had signaled the British steam
ship to show her flag and stop, but Captain
Fryatt refused to heed the signal and turned
at high speed toward the submarine, which
escaped only by submerging Immediately for
some meters. Fryatt admitted that he had
followed Instructions from the Admiralty.
The sentence was confirmed and Fryatt was
shot for a 'franc tlreur crime against armed
Garman sea forces."
NEILL ON COAL BOARD
Washington Man Named as Conciliator
for Anthracite Trouble
Judge Burlington, in the United States
Circuit Court In Philadelphia today, ap
pointed Charles P, Neill, of Washington.
P. C, umpire pf the anthracite conciliation
board.
Mr, Nelll has filled the same position
under previous agreements and given sat
isfaction. Seaman Washed Overboard
WILDWOOD. N. J.. July 28 When the
fishing smack Hilda and Mabel arrived In
port here yesterday -with Captain Charles
Colberg In command It was learned that
while off Chlncoteague, Va., on Monday
morning one of the mates, Peter Johnson,
was gashed overboard In the rough weath
er and sank before aid could be given.
Johnson wa3 employed on this boat for the
last eight years and was weU known
anions tUhermea here.
MISS EILEEN WALSH
From a photograph taken in Police
Court today.
GIRL, LURED BY LIFE'S
GAIETY, LANDS IN JAIL
HERE ON CHECK FRAUD
Eileen Walsh, of St. John, N. B.,
Caught After Pose as Million
aire in New York and
at Shore
IDENTIFIED BY VICTIM
From convent and college to Atlantic
City and a cell In City Hall here is tho
biography of Mlsi Eileen Walsh, 20 j'cars
old, of St. John, Now Brunswick. She Is
under arre&t here, accused of defrauding
Atlantic City business peoplo by means of
bogus chcclts.
Between sobs she! tolls the police thit
sho "did It because she wanted to live lll:o
a millionaire," and In a prison cell now sho
sits waiting to hear from her grandmother,
who, she Is sure, will remit $1000 with
which to clear up the dobta sho Incurred
while putting up ono "swell front" In tho
city of boardwalks, froth, waves and fes
tivities. The girl' fold ' the police she wan the
daughter of- an erstwhllo wealthy liquor
dealer of St. John who educated her In a
convent and In a college. Upon his death
tho members of tho family Wont separate
ways', and In her loneliness tho girl sought
happiness In tho glittering things of the
world.
CASHING OF CHECKS.
About a month ago Eileen set out upon
her career of mad social whirligigs. Sho
started at the Blltmore Hotel In New York
city which has a roof garden nnd nil other
kindred amusements. When she left, after
a pleasant stay, she paid her bill with a
check a porfectly good check, by the way.
She arrived In Atlantic City two weeks
ngo from tho Blltmore and registered at the
Traymore Hotel as Mrs. Eileen Sayers, of
St. John, New Brunswick. A few days
after her arrival she presented to tho hotel
management a check for $120. At first the
management demurred at the thought of
cashing It.
"Why that check is perfectly good," said
the girl. "If you aro In tho least bit
skeptical, I shall be only too glad to pay
telephone charges If you will call up the
Blltmore Hotel In New York city."
The hotel management said that if the
Blltmore vouched for her there would then
be no doubt of her check's worth in real
money. So New York city was called
The Blltmore Hotel told about the check
Its management had cashed for the girl
The Traymore was satisfied and cashed
the $120 check.
ROUND OF GAIETY,
Then began a round of gaiety. The
girl entertained lavishly with tango teas,
.dinners and luncheons. She made, so much
of an impression that Mrs. M. Er Bennett,
a Jeweler, of HOT Boardwalk, without a
Continued on Pate Two, Column HU
BRITISH PATROL BOATS
SINK IN COMBAT WITH
GERMAN SUBMARINES
Naval Battle Between English
and Teutons Fought Off Scotch
Coast, Berlin Re-
port Says
DUTCH RESCUE SAILORS
BERLIN (la Sayvllle wireless), July 28.
The Dutch newspaper Handelsblad re
ports a naval battle oft the Scotch coast
between several German submarines and
the patrol boats Nellen, Nutten, Onward
and Ea,
The Nejlen and the Nutten sank. Three
sailors were killed, the remaining sailors
being rescued, by a Dutch fishing boat oft
the Doggerbank and landed. In a Scotch
harbor. It Is understood that three of
those rescued from the Nellen and Nutten
died after as a consequence of their
wounds.
The other two patrolboats are supposed
to have been lost with their crews.
Four German torpedoboats brought up
two British trading ships off Landskrona,
In International, waters.
(The foregoing newspaper report of a
naval battle was circulated by the official
German, News Agency and by them trans
mitted, In connection with the dally Ger
man wireless news, to the United States
via BayvUle.i
GERMANS CLAIM
VERDUN MASTERY;
PRAISE FRENCH
Bravery of Defenders Pre
vented Capture of City,
Teutons Say
ORDER HALT OF DRIVE
Kaiser's Chiefs Satisfied With
Command of Bat
tlefield By CARL W. ACKERMAN
W.1TH Tlin GERMAN ARMY BEFORE
VERDUN, July 27. Germany's mastery
hero at Verdun robbed the French of
their greatest chanco to co-operato In the
Allied drive. If French positions had not
been under attack by tho German forcco,
tho troops under tho tricolor could have
hammered there simultaneously with tho
British thrust. Dut Germany now domi
nates tho city.
German ofllccrs say tho main thing now Is
not whether. Germany Is to tako Verdun,
but that tho Teutonic forces remain aa mas
ters of tho battlefield.
Traveling all nlong tho German front In
this section, talking with officers and men,
I find a different opinion as to tho war's
end from that entertained elsewhere. Tho
belief of all was best expressed by tho
grandson of General von Steuben, tho Prus
sian hero of tho Revolutionary War, who
said :
"The war will last long."
For 10 miles on each Bide of tho Verdun
trenches tho face of the earth has literally
been blown off. It Is marked with shell
crateis In some places vast holes 30' to
GO feet deep. Fighting has gone on under
ground. UnUersal respect Is accorded French
bravery by tho Germans hero.
''French bravery In tho underground
trenches," said one staff officer, "was what
prevented German troops from capturing
tho city."
Today from the summits of Hills 171 and
310, tho progress of artillery attacks on tho
hills of Frold do Tcrre, Thlalimont nnd Le
Mort Homme could bo plainly observed, as
well ns tho details of small Infantry at
tacks. For fourteen hours tho newspaper
correspondents wero permitted to walk nnd
rldo along thl3 enormoua.battlcfleld. From
observations on this Journey nnd from con
ersatlon with tho men who aro il6lng tho
fighting, I am convinced tho Anglo-French
offensive has not affected the German posi
tions here. Preparations before Verdun
wero temporarily" halted only by orders from
German headquarters.
At dawn thl ''morning motored toward
tho battlefield from Hill 171 nnd viewed the
famous left bank of the Meuse. Forges
Immediately hclow tho iitll wero crumbled
Into ruins. Hera was dangerous ground
a no man's land where no one was permitted
to enter. Towns near about were In ruins.
Continued on rage ranr. Column Tno
BREEZE BEGUILES ALL
TO A CHILLY DELUSION;
HEAT JUST AS IT WAS
You May Feel Cooler, but You
Shouldn't, Bliss Says, for
Temperature Hasn't
Budged
NO "RELIEF" IN SIGHT
Middle West Swelters;
Nevada Wears Muffs
CHICAGO, July 28.
WHILE the Middle West swelter
ed under a blazing sun today,
residents of Winnemucca, Nev.,
shivered in overcoats with the tem
perature at 3G.
"The coolest spot in the country,"
stated the Weather bureau here.
There Is no hope!
What people thought was cooler weather
today Is really not much cooler after all
It Is still hot, despite what may be said
to the contrary. And not only that; there
Is no chance of the thermometer's dropping
to any pleasant degree. Indeed, the chances
are that the mercury will gain even greater
heights.
This is the outlook given by George S.
Bliss, official weather prognostlcator. He
was weary answering telephone calls from
persona who wanted to tell him he had
been wrong, and the heat wae, now so
famous. Is no heat wave at all because this
morn ng dawned cool and comfortable.
"The reason people think It Is cooler
today," Bald Mr. Bliss, "is because tho air
is being stirred a little by northeasterly
winds. A high atmospheric pressure over
Maine-nnd the Immediate St. Lawrence val
ley sent these winds.
"That pressure may stay there a few
days and continue to send us relief, but the
probabilities are that It. will move out Into
the Atlantic and the Bermuda high, or high
pressure about Bermuda Island, will resume
Its work of Bending us tropical weather.
And though we may suffer If this pres
sure, moves eastward from above Maine,
the West will be relieved. The atmosphere
there will probably drift in behind the mov
ing high pressure."
These northwesterly winds caused a drop
of four degrees in Philadelphia's tempera
ture. The humidity remained 10 per cent
above normal, or 82 per cent, at 8 o'clock
this morning. At 7 o'clock this morning the
thermometer registered 71 At 8 o'clock It
rose to 72; at 9 it was 73, and at 10 o'clock,
74, which temperature was still recorded
an hour later It was 75 at 1 o'clock.
Tonight and tomorrow clouds will gather
about Philadelphia, but the Indications are
that tomorrow wjlPbe warmer. The north
easterly winds will continue to be of some
relief The high pressure above the Gulf
of St. Lawrence has been known to remain
there several days at a time, according
to the Weather Bureau but on most occa
slons It moves directly put.
"If It does move out," said Forecaster
Bliss, "we are likely to have a spell of
hot weather Weather conditions now are
similar to those of July. 1901, the record
hot month in tha United States,
QUICK
AMERICAN ACTORS BLACKLISTED IN ENGLAND
NEW YOIIK, July 2fJ. Ainoilctm concents aie not the only folks
being blacklisted in England. Chailcs E. Bray, who arrived today
on tho Adriatic, cald American actors and actresses are being black
listed, managers having ngiecd, at the demand of the English Aitists
Federation, not to sign contiacts with American performers who have
appeared in London in laige numbers.
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-olds, with 9500 added, 5 1-2 furlongs Ed
Iloche, 105, Fail brother, 4 to 5, 1 to 4, out, won; Oladlola, 102, Mink,
a to 1, 3 to 5, out, second; Storm Nymph, 102, K. Hoffman. 0 to 2,
0 to 5, out, third. Time, 1:08,
Second race, 2-year-olds and up, Belling, with $500 added, 1 mile
Jebse, Jr., 117, Leaver. 3 to 1, 1 to 3, out, won; Monocacy, 110, But
well, 7 to 10, 1 to 8, out, second; Song of Valley, 112, Doyle, 12 to 1,
5 to 2, 7 to 10, thiul. Time, 1:43 1-0.
GAMBLER-CONVICT BEFORE VICE PROBERS
Charles K. Baumgartner. who io serving a two and a half year
term for embezzlement in the Eastern Penitentiary, was brought to
City Hall this afternoon by Warden McKcnty to tell tho Grand Jury of
hia cspericuccu'in poolrooms and gambling houses hi this city. He
will be abked to name the places hi which he played.
COLORADO COAL STRIKE CASES TO BE DISMISSED
DENVER, Col., July 28. Attorney General Farrar, of Colorado, announced to
day thaj a majority of the 8-1 strikers' cases growing out of the, 1913 coal strike and
pending In tho lower State courts would bo dismissed. Tho Supreme Court nppeals
of John Lawson and others given llfo terms after convictions of charges, of 'par
ticipating in fatal riots are not affected. v
CHILD KILLED WHEN AEROPLANE HITS AUTOS
ONTARIO, Cal July 25. Ono child was killed and its mother, Mrs. C. Stoeba,
was seriously injured when Lieutenant S. H. "Wheeler, U. S. A., attempting, to rise
.from tho groontl In u warplrtn'e near here, crashed Into a lino of automobiles. Four
automobiles wore wrecked.
WOMEN PLAN NON-PARTISAN SUFFRAGE FIGHT
CHEYENia:, Wyo., July 2S. Representatives of 4,000,000 women vomers in tho
12 auffarge States, In convention here, have decided to oln with the National Amer
ican Woman Suffrage Association to obtain national suffrage through nonpartisan
effort.
PRESIDENT INDORSES ALL DEFENSE PLANS
WASHINGTON, July 28. Announcement was made at the Whlto House this
afternoon that President Wilson had given his unreserved Indorsement to national
preparedness measures not directly related to army and navy expansion. The Presi
dent Is particularly pleased with the Council of National Defenso and tho National
Research Council, organized by tho National Academy of Sciences 'at the Presi
dent's request.
PHILADELPHIAN APPOINTED TO COAST GUARD ACADEMY
WASHINGTON, July 28. Tho Treasury Department today announced the
appointment of tho following cadets to tho United States Coast Guard Academy at
New London, Conn.; David F. Akers, Philadelphia; Cornelius P. Mengcr, Camp Hill,
Fa.; John A. Curran, Medford, Mass.; Donald M. Waesche, Thurmont, Md.; Joseph
Greenspum, Baltimore, lid.; Louis W. Perkins, Waltham, Mass., and Lyndon Spen
cer, Batavia, N. Y. e.
ANTHRAX HITS CATTLE HERD NEAR HARTFORD
HARTFORD, Conn., July 28. Well-developed cases of anthrax were discovered
by State veterlnarles today affecting the hprd of cattle belonging to William V.
Williams, living near tho city line. A quarantine was placed on the entire herd
belonging to Williams and also on a herd belonging to Max Case, who lives on am,
adjoining farm.
FOUR MORE BRITISH SHIPS CAPTURED BY GERMANS
LONDON, July 28. Four more British steamships, one of which Is believed to
have been a passenger vessel, have been captured by German warships. One was
released through the Intercession of the commander of a Swedish torpedoboat.
NEW CASTLE DEL., GETS $1,000,000 SHIP PLANT
WILMINGTON, July 28. New Castle, Del, la to have a large shipbuilding
establishment, a new concern, the Delaware Shipbuilding, and Engineering Corpora
tion, capitalized at Jl.000,000, having purchased for 30,000 a tract of 11 acres from
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. The project, It Is understood, is backed by
capitalists who are Interested in shipbuilding on the .Great Lakes. At first steel
and wooden boats, 250 and 300 feet long, and marine engines will be built; larger
ships later. A capable engineer, who has been on the Great Lakes, will have gen
eral charge of the New Castle project. The company Is expected to begin opera,
tlons In a few months, and 1000 men will probably be, on the payroll one year hence.
HUGHES SPEECH OF ACCEPTANCE READY FOR PRINTER
BRIDGEHAMPTON, N. Y.. July 28. Charles Evans Hughes' speech accepting
the Republican nomination for the presidency probably will go to the printer today.
The address will be delivered at the big notification meeting Monday night in Car
negie Hall, New York. Five million copies of. the speech will be printed and dis
tributed throughout the country. The speech probably will be used as the founda
tion for the entire campaign against tho Wilson Administration.
HEAT KILLS 47 IN CHICAGO IN 21 HOURS
CHICAGO, July 28, Fprty-seven deaths In 24 houra as a result of the terrific
heat was the -toll of the hot wave, according to police reports at noon.
BRITISH AIRMAN WRECKS GERMAN PLANE
LONDON, July 28, The British Air Board today announced that a German sea
plane had been hit and set on firo by a British aviator off Ostend. The official state
ment follows; "On July 15 a British, Nleuport aeroplane patrolling off Ostend en
countered a German seaplane maneuvering, whereupon the British pilot looped
over the enemy. Gaining, he thereupon opened Are on the German pilot. The ma
chine; hit, vertically dived in flames.
OKUMA CABINET TOTTERING; TERAUCHI MAY SUCCEEDn
TOKIO, July 28. Resignation of the Okuma Cabinet Is said to be Imminent,
Marshal Terauchl is generally believed to be slated to succeed Count Okuma as
Premier.
MILK PRICES INCREASE IN PROSPECT PARK AND NORWOOD
Retail milkmen have served notice on residents of Prospect Park and Norwood;
that after August 1 the price will be advanced to 10 cents a quart. The Increase
la the wholesale price and the advance la the cojt of supplies are bUuad.
NEWS
WRONG C0NVB
CALLED TO TEL!
OF PROTECT!!
Baumgartner, Not Fri
Will Reveal the Gam
bling Conditions
VARE LEADER TO TESTII
William Reed, Said to Have B
Inllrrlif in TiaiA flntnrr
Before 'Probers
.y
When Frank 'A. Friend, a convict ,
leased temporarily. from tho Eastern Pent
tentlary to testify before the Grand JttrtlfW-
In the vice Investigation this afternoon, tdok1 IS
the stand, It was learned that he was net
tho man sought by tho Jury. it M
The man wanted Is Charles Baumgartnwj m
who was convicted last April of cmbeMllr
funds of tho Olrard TrUBt Company. BaumV'i
gartner, It Is said, lost considerable mone"
In poolrooms nnd In wire-tapping games. Kj
a riena was reiurnea to we penitentiary
and Baumgartner will be brought before
tho Jury Immediately.
Ills nppcaranco beforo tho Jurjr and th
testimony of William Jtced, a Vare politi
cian of the Third Ward, vho has also been
subpoenaed. Is expected to bring to -light
several spedlflo' Instances which will show
tho actual conditions during tho last few
months. Reed Is a former member of
tho Legislature. According to V. Claronco
Glbboncy he was caught In a house a,t
Eleventh and Melon streets
Reed had tho contract for removing pri
oners from City Hall to Moyaraenslnj
Prison during the Blankenburg admlnii
tratlon.
CAPTURED IN TENDERLOIN,
He was ono of five men arrested'ln th
house of Sophie Dlsue near Thirteenth and
Melon streets the night of tho raid. That
place has a reputation of being frequence
by politicians.
Rcedwas taken, to the Tenth and But
tonwood station, and was recognised bjr
D. Clarence Glbboncy when the Law. and
Order -Society chief came In.
"Hello Bill, what are you doing .herer
queried dlbboney, " '
"Oh, It's nothing, Clarence; I was stmpljr
caught down at Sophlo DIsue's place play
ing poker," Roed replied. .
Recd,was taken Into the private ofllqi
& w..v.u u,uu,v,ui,b o.iiibc, ui uie ag
house, and It Is said Assistant Direct
Davis and another man, whoso name
not been learned, were In the room.
The next da,y at tho hearing ClbbonJ
not'eed tho absence of Reed. He said j
Davis, "Whero Is Reed?" and Dal
a nswered :
"You'll have to forget all about thai
and winked an eye.
Davis had brought about tho release of
Reed before the hearing. The prisdner
was never slated.
STINGER, DENIES RELEASE,
There were rumors after the raid of
July 15 that a Vare politician had been
caught nnd released at the order of Assist
ant Director Davis. When asked today i
If a prisoner named William Reed had
been nrrested on the night of tho
and later released. Lieutenant Stlngtta!
the Tenth and Buttonwood streets station,
said he was not at the station house at
the time of the raid. He denied that ha
had been ordered to release any prisoner
of that name.
Considerable significance was attached to
a statement of Lieutenant Van Horn, on
of the suspended police officials, before hj
entered the Jury room today. Aske
whether he had fcver received Instruction
not to moleBt any dives In the Tenderlo
district, he said, "I won't say. I'll no
deny or affirm. I'm not. tha leait nervous,!
Serious revelations are expected through!
tho testimony of Samuel Echwartx. altai
"Chink," who will also testify today.
Schwartz says h'e will give the name .of as,
special policeman who received protection
money from gambling house and dive keep
ers and also tell how this policeman confis
cated cocaine and other I'dope" In raids oal
uena unu laier sofa me urugs IO 'aopl
users for his own profit. Jt Is expectM
that the testimony of Schwartx will brlnffl
the Federal authorities into the lnveU-J
gatlon.
icrniTnt. TtTTT T rT-0lTtV
M..u.hW.-. ,fuu -iUQiUA, ,
Lieutenant, William McBrlde, pf ttttj
Fourth and Race streets station, a brother!
jn-law of the alleged gambling king, "Mo
Welnbeck, leader of the eighth division
the Twentieth Ward, will also appear today,!
Among others whp will testify today r
Director Wilson. Captain William J, Mo
Fadden, Lieutenant Haines, of the Eighti
and Jefferson streets station, and Vie
Squad Officer Charles Le, recently su
pended, and Acting Captain John Ewing, A
Friend, the star witness, left too paafc
tentlary at 11:30 accompanied by Ward
McKenty. He made po mention of what :
Intended to tell the Jury,
The prisoner was convicted of tmbe
zling rnore than 170,000 from building
loan associations.
SMITH WANTS TO BE WITNESS.
Mayor Smith said today that t Was
awaiting call from the Grand Jury to up.
pear on the witness stand and tell what
he knows of vice conditions. In emplw.U.
terms he also asserted that vjes mut 1
driven out of Philadelphia, no mattsr win"
may be exposed by the investtfratiau.
"I am as determined today aa l wis
day of my Inauguration," the Mayor ad
no maka Philadelphia, the elat
the country J Intend to Me that
driven out, no matter who may ia
by the Grand Jury Investigation. Tfcs
men must go
A complete shake-up In tk
parttr.ent is forshadowed la (tit
xoappea. out for todays EiAsk t Vhff
1
1"!
l
