"Seen on the Side'
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
Sidimond (Jimes
06th YEAR
VOI.VMR nn
MMIIKIl UOI)
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916.
-"'"VT7" ??'
\.
Hoskins Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
FOURTEEN PAGES
v? i vi jii:k
i* a r.i: r?
?CLOUDY
PRICE, TWO CENTS,
RESERVE BANK BUYS!
SITE FOR NEW HOME!
I
Will Pay $122,500 for Lot at
Ninth and Franklin
Streets.
oEAY ISSUES STATEMENT
?N'car to Post-Office and Member
Ranks, and Gives Room for
Future Growth.
After lengthy anil careful considera
tion th* hoard of directors of the Fed- 1
' r.->l Uf-p^rvp Rank of Richmond yes
? "rda v selected the property at the
northwest corner of Ninth nnd Frank
'ir Streets as a location for Its new
homo, and the property will be ac
quired for $122.6-NO. As Koon as the
title ran ho examlm'l the transfer will
tip made, architect* will hp /ncace'l to
design n building which will he in
:**eping with the dignity of the in
stitution and of a character which
will he a distinct addition to other
node.rn at run u res which have been
' ?1J11? about the Oapl'ol Pquar"
Thin sit*. which fronts ninety-five
f*?t on Ninth Street and runs back
> -fi feet alonp Franklin. is now owned
h\ the City Center Realty <"'orporat Ion,
of which H A Mi-Curdy is president.
Herbert W. Jackson and F. Sltterdlng
f<- other oflic.ors of the comprny.
'"?"ire J. Sen y, governor of the
, -onerve bank. Inst night rna-de th? fol
">wlrK formal announcement of the
(??'op r,f the director" anthorlzinsc the
purchase of the property:
'The hoard of directors of the Fftd
'???' Reserve Batik o' Richmond this
-if'Tnoon authorized the purchase of
'ho property ?>n th?- cornet of Ninth
ltd Kranklln Street^. upon which in
? -< near ftjtnre will l.e built a home
'? the hank
< i\ i *? \ MlM.r. limni
i nn nil in: rii
property was owned by the
ir Ren 11 v corporation, > om
< I of ,-i few U:chmond men, and
' . ,.-e r- Understood to he il-i..r'00.
This property fronts a little over
? ? etv-flve feet on Ninth Street, rtinn
1 : l'f' feet on Franklin, anfi there ;s
.it'\ twenty feet wide In the rear.
A jrr 1 ? er of sites were offered to
b.thk. bm th ?' Mte w:t? mant
? isiy 'hone n by th?- directors as
? :t..nil.K all the I'bnKlderation* which
fitruie in the matter of choosing a home
' r the hank The property is large
' i ? )cii to permit <>f the erection a
' aiding w.th Imht and a r on all
ir t-ides * I: , hi the < enter of
?be hotel d s?rw? and close t-> the p ?????*
oftlce and all its larger local member
banks.
"5t has 1 splend.'l out I.e.; i : the
' ,.;,ol Square, and t: ? ? ? f '1.. ir.onu
? net.'al building.- "f Hi* >?':? are in
e view of it
!; was not thong: ? i ? ? s*? y * ".at
?ho har.k should be '<>. :.????! on .Main
Street, as it does not deal with the
putdln. and. under these r .-um.'-'anccs,
? lie direr-tors did not feel that they
ivc ild be Justified it: ? ? > t .; M tin
vj'reet values
VKAH PnnT-DlTIt K \\ll
MRXIIKII BANKS IN lilt IIMUM)
;r is a* free from no.se and dust
i any location in the business dis
1 trier can be. has abundant light and
I vr. and its close proximity to the post
I ..'fire and to the great majority of the
>Mtiks In the city were the factors
\>-hich decided the choice of this loca
tion
"It was also necessary to seeuro a
site larpe enough, not only to provide
for present needs, hut for any addi
tions whlc.h the growth of the hank
?nay require."
For a long while the directors hare
haen Inspecting various properties
n-hlch had been offered to the bank
,f. suitable for the location of the
ew Institution, and. after much work,
eliminated all but that at Ninth and
Franklin Streets.
KITCHIN MAKES PROTEST
J'red iotfc VorCli <"n roll mi Will <;? ICe
litililicnn If Iterpiif t'lieck
( Icnrltipr Order Hlnnds.
WASHINGTON. July 21.- Ueptcsonta
tive Kltchin, Democratic leader of the
House, protested to-day to Postinaster
Oeneral Rurleson and the Federal Re
jerve Board apainst Mr. Burleson's ro
, ent order direc.tlnp postmasters in
?small towns to collect checks without
.?x.-.'iange charges from State banks not
inrmbers of the reserve system.
Mr Kltchin said the order would cut
f; most of the profits of 6,000 small
State banks which are not In and can
1 enter the reserve system. "If the
?.;cr stands," he declared. "North
( ,rolina will go Republican by 25.000."
Mr. Burleson's order was suggested
l v Secretary McAcloo, and based on a
ros.rve board resolution. It provides
for . heck collection from nonmember
(..inks in communities where there is
?(, number to perform the service, and
v.is designed to perfect the universal
. -clearing system recently inaug
urated by the reserve hoard.
ACCUSED BY YOUNG GIRL
\))-. KnIIs II. UolildiiM, i'ritinlnent
spei'liilint mid Soclnl l.endcr In
llnton llogiic. In .lull.
;;\TON ROUOK. RA., July 27.? Dr.
Cstis O. Rohhlns. prominent specialist
?tnd n leader in Baton Rouge social and
professional circles, was arrested here
tn-d&y on charges tnado l>y Alma Black,
twelvo-year-old daughtor of Cole C.
Hlnok.t well-known planter and politi
cian thia olty- The girl had been
patient of Dr. Robbins. The aflidavlt
against the doctor was sworn out by
Mr Black.
The physician declared he was in
nocent of the charges, which caused a
?.ensatif>n here. Sheriff Day placed
Rohhlns in the parish jail, stating ho
feared Cor tho prisoner's safety,
PARALYSIS MAKES
APPEARANCE HERE
Myra Belle Montgomery, Aged
Four Years, Has Disease
in Mild Form.
CAME FROM PHILADELPHIA
Child and Mother Will Be Moved
to City's Contagious Dis
ease Pavilion.
Iirs|nte all precautions of the Health
Department, a case of Infantile pa
ralysis has developed in Richmond, j
Although the authorities last night ex
pressed the eonvJ~tlon that the dis
ease would not spread, the house where
It was found was immediately quaran
tined Police officers were stationed
about the premises, and rlcid instruc
tions Riven to allow no one to enter
r* r 1 e a v
The little victim is Myra Utile Mont
comerv. aped four years and si*
month-, daughter of Mrs Ira Mont
pomerv. who is at the home of M"
t s .Sovars. SIC North ThIrt v-serond
Street Her case t? reported to he a
mild one. and therefore health officials
,|r, riot helievo there is serious dancer
?.f contagion, but they have, ne\er
theless. taken every precaution to
guard acainst It
The father of the little pirl was
drowned in the city Hock and his body
1 was recovered one week ago to-day.
It was not Identified until Monday.
> in ^cvnsi^ I* ( ovriiOH'.i)
\S I'OI.HMIYKtlTlS
I ,r |? K Summers, medical in
cp? tor "f the Health Department, who
diacnosed the .ase as poliomyelitis
when he was called in yesterday, be
lieves that the child contracted the dis
rate in Philadelphia. Mrs .Mont
t-oinery and the child arrived in Rich
mond on Monday night. according to
.he accotint given Pr. Summers. When
the father was last seen alive he an
nounced his Intention of K'"nc to
Philadelphia to vtult his wife and .hi! 1.
Mrs SoyAr" \va.? th* sister "f Mr. Mon
K'omcry . ...
; ir William F Williamson, of 301
Loulsinna Street. Fulton, who was
ailed to attend the child, yesterday
mornlnp reported to the Health
partment that he suspected her as be
i,.K a victim of infantile paralysis Pr
Summers hurried to the Thirty-second
Street home and confirmed Dr. Wil
liamson's belief Later in the day Pr
?umm?T?. accompanied by Pr. E ?
lew i 'hief Health Officer. apaln
visited the patient. Or Levy said that
there was no doubt but that the
svmptoms displayed were those of the
dreaded disease. A strict quarantine
was ordered. :?itd the police were noti
fied Officers were stationed at the
house, ai'd as a further warning to
callers to ke,p away, a rope was
stretched across the front por*h
( V M r. TO l?'l( IOIOMI
<?\ I,\ST MO Ml A ^ MGIIT
The history Of th." case, as told to
tr.e ..metals, was that the <hlld had
j,.'en slightly 111 for several days.
However, she was able to make the
trip to Richmond with her mother, and
arrived here late on Monday night over
the H. aboard Air Line Railway. They
left the train at the Main StreoL Sta
tion polnp at once to the home of
Mrs. Sovars. On Tuesday afternoon
'the little girl was taken by her mother
to the fathers crave, in Oakwood
Cemetery. They traveled on *tre^
i Cars, and in coming and going to and
from the cemetery they were the only
'?passengers on the cars.
Pr Summers found that tha cv?-waa
jof a mild type, the girl being affect.**
I -in tho loft lec
! This Is the first case which the ao^
! thoritios have deemed it necessary to
! surround bv a quarantine, two others
1 which were reported being of a chronic
i Instead of an epidemic type Both of
! the others were Imported into the city.
Wll.I. HI*. ISOl.ATKI)
IN SPI3CIAL PAVILION
In all probability. Mrs. Montgomery
and her daughter will be removed thin
I morning to the contagious pavilioii In
tho rear of the City Home. \\ hile the
Memorial Hospital has placed an entire
ward at our disposal to care for any
l cases of infantile paralysis. 1 believe
that we will be* in a better position to
i nivc comfort to the patient at the
; pavilion." said Dr. Levy. The Adinin
i Istrative Board has ordered certain
i equipment put in plac e and a few
i necessary repairs made. A trained
I miri?e will be in constant attendance
1 There is said to be no question but
' that the case is of the infectious type.
; but Pr Lew laid stress on the im
| portance of not becoming unduly
I alarmed. "We have taken every
! caution, and see no reason why the
| disease should spread." he said
Dr Lew declared that, while it is
! not fully known what is the source of
ithe aflliction. it is. nevertheless, known
to spread in sections where people are
careless or dirty. The section in which
1 this case developed is composed of se f
i respecting people, and is occupied by
! homes of families who take, pride in
i keeping them dean. For this reason.
1 Pr. Levy believes, there is no danger
r.f the. disease spreading.
"The public will do well," said Pr.
Levy, "to follow the advice fir3t given,
the essential part of which is to sum
mon a physician as soon as n diiKi
shows any symptoms whatsoever or
being ill. first isolating the patient.
"Too much cannot be said." he added,
"about the necessity of keeping chil
dren away from crowded places, espe
cially indeers. such as moving-pic.turo
theaters. Careful attention should be
given to keep the mouth and nose
clean."
i Oaring Alrninn Killed I" Battle.
LONDON. July 27.?Lieutenant Otto
. Pars. hau. recently given the decoration
of I'our le Merite for bringing down his
i eighth enemy aeroplane, has been
s killed in an air battle, according to a
Reuters Anistordnin dinpfltch, which
quotes tho Frankfurter Zcltunff.
British Gain Foothold in Ger
man Trench Near
Pozieres.
FRENCH MAKE NEW PROGRESS
Petrograd Reports Fresh Russian
Advances in Slonevka
River Sector.
Hard liphtinp has bopun apain hp- |
tween the British and the Germans In
the Somme r?-ir:on r> f France, near
Po/.iores. around I.ongueval and In the
Delvllle wood ]
1 ho British 1 t? ihc ficiitinp on Wed
ncsdav night captured an important
fi"rman irornh situated to thi> north of
the line runrinc ftom Pozieres to
Bazentin- |e-pe? ? ?. hut ivor" shelled out
of it on Thursday mornlnp l>y an en
flladinc fir<- fro-. ,;io (Icrnian artillery.
A not her attack, however, cave tho
British a foothold In tiio southern end
of th<? tr?-n<-h
To tho south r.f tho Som mo tho
French made further progress apainst
tho Toiitor'? !'? past i,f Kstreen. In
| Champaffim tho Oet'mans raided French
first trenches near Prosnes. hut lator
wort- driven out In a counterattack.
F.om ha nl m? r t * ;i o in pr'mro.ss 011 va
rious sectors rirnunii Vorrltin.
PKTItflfi It \ 11 f HltMMCI.KS
|-| ItTIIKIt Ill'SSIAX <;ains
Further artv.inrcs for tho Russian
troops ir. tho Slonevka Blver replon
on tho eastern front are chronicled by
petroprad Vienna admits tho falling
I bac k of the Austrians south of Les
znlow, r?nr Brody, in the face of su
perior forces of the Russians, and that i
northeast of Brc.dv the Bussians pained
I insignificant advar, tap's in violent at
taoks. in which th>- attackers suffered.
I extraordinarily Icavy casualties. In:
tho north con-:detahlo fiphtinc con-:
1 tlntios between tho 'Jermans and Rus- !
j?-:ane, hut no ii'-portant chanzes In'
1 torrlt.ory havo resulted
In tho Caucasus roslnn tlio Bussians
| n re reported from Petroprad to ho still
ion tho heels of tho Turks reireatinp
1 from Erzlngan
Bombardments by tho Austrian arttl
: lory in Asiapo basin, alone tho Tsonzn
I front and aealnst other Italian posi
itlons In tho Austro-Italian theater aro
| reported by Rome
nituiMt niPitnvF. p?mtmi>s
NOItTHBAST OK Po7.1 Kit K.S
I.ONDdS*. July 2* ?Slnop the rom
, plotiun of the capture of Pozieres. the
news from the British front itVFratice
' is mainly of artillery actions and tost
lnp encounters at various points on
tlhe Cifrmin lino. The comparative
lull, and hot. hazy weather, it is as
sumed. have plven the Cormans an
opportunity. to brine up further troop*
ami puns, with a view to renewed at
tempts to recapture Pozieres. where,
however, aocorilinp to unofficial re
ports. the British troops have further
? consolidated their positions. j
To-niFrttfs official report shows that
there has been hard tlphtiue all day. |
with some fluctuation? of fortune, but |
j that in the end the British improved !
1 their positions northeast of Pozieres]
! and In the vicinity of Lonpueval and j
I Dolvllle wood.
Tlieto is much comment in the,
I European capitals on the effect that j
j the loss of tho last ereat Turkish
fortress in Armenia, from which 1
! province tho Turks are said to he flee- |
j inp. owlnc to exhaustion of their am- I
I munition supplies, is likely to have in
J Constantinople, and also as to the in-,
' fluen'-e the defeat will have in Greecei
and Roumanla.
The Associated Press correspondent
at Athens learns that there ip no longer
any likelihood of an attack on the
entente allied forces at Salonlki. <
tiKHM.tW I'AV STII.I. OKKRII
I.O.Vfi RESISTA \CF.
The Russian War Minister, accord
ing to an interview in the Russky
Slovo. desires to dispel the illusion
that the war <an end in autumn, lie
admits that the Herman technique is
so hiph that Ci-rmany can still offer
a lonp resistance.
1 Humors that an .Important naval ac
1 tion has occurred in Scandinavian
I waters were nut to-day by a statement
! of tho British Admiralty that it had
1 |jreports of naval a * tivities In
I the region indicated.
Turkish claims to advantape over tho
British in cavalry skirmishes in Kgypt.
in the district east of tho Suez Canal,
; are denied in a report from the British
j commander in Kgypt. who reports that
I he has the situation well in'hand.
The sinking it# the North Sea by Ger
: man submarines of four Norwegian
I vessels with cargoes of timber is an
! nounced from London, which reports
I their destruction as part of an ener
getic campaign started by the Germans
against tlnnber-laden vessels in those
waters
Petrocrail announces the capture of
?a total of f.,250 prisoners by tho Rus
sians in the fiphting of Tuesday, when
tho Teutonic lines were pressed Flack in
tho Slonevka region of Volhynia.
XO UKPOnT OK NAVAIi BATTI.K
II10A It I) AT IIIIITISII ADMIRALTY
T.ONDON. .Inly 27.?Officials of tho
British Admiralty informed the Asso
] dated Press to-day that, they had no
i report of a new naval action in Scan
dinavian waters, and had received
| nothing in any way confirming un
j official reports of naval activity in that
j region
I BRITISH PHKSS fiKRMAXK l\
HAND-TO-HAXD CLASHES
LONDON, July 27.?Throughout tho
j night British troops continued to press
i the Germans with hand-to-hand en
i counters at various points on the
Sommc front in France, says I ho of
ficial Rritish statement issued to-day.
The British official statement says:
"Throughout the night our artillery
? fcJnTinucd on Second Pago.) ~
\
Prisoners Captured in Great Allied Drive on the Somme
German soldiers made prisoners on July ?"?. fighting on (lie .sector south of the Homme, i" l'ieurdy, being
taken to the rear under guard. This is one of the first photos to arrive here showing prisoners made raptivo
during the great offensive launched by the. British and French on the Homme. It will he noted that the
prisoners have not had time to have their wounds properly dressed, some of them holding their hands to
their heads in evident pain, while others have their wounds hastily.dressed.
| Mnrr Than $10,000 Is Subscribed hy
Richmond llusinrss Mon
for Project.
W 11,1. < OMPI.KTR FUND SHORTLY
Commercial Interests Stress ValuAl,w4
Richmond of OponiiiK Up Now
Avenues of Trade?KnOuisiastir
I!ps|miiisp Made to Appeal.
Consider.*!bly more than ?10,1100 uas
raised last nicht at a spirit..<1 meetinir
of Richmond business mon held in Ihe
auditorium of the Jefferson llntcl for
the purpose of arousinc interest in the.
proposed Richmond, Rappahannock and!
Northern Railway, which will connect
Urbanna with West. I'njiil, ami which
is expected to throw open a rich field
of irade to this city.
I radically all of the business organ
izations of the city were represented I
at the meeting, at which more than
100 men wore in attendance. After the
introductory speech of T M. Carring
't". chairman of ih<* committee of cit
izens appointed to investigate ihe.
railway, informal talks were made by I
a la rue number of business men.
Everybody acreed that the building of I
the road would he of Incalculable bene
fit to Richmond trade, everybody he- j
Moved the movement would come to a i
successful conclusion, anil many of
those present made subscriptions to,
stock for amounts ranging from J1 on
t to Sl.opo.
With the ?3.i.oen subscribed before,,
the $13,000 raised last nlpht loaves but j
$15,000 more for Richmond to put up'
in order to assure the building of the:
railroad.- A vigorous campaign to'
round out the total of Sfio.000 needed |
will he entered upon at once.
ni sinhss iioi sks iwijr.ii
?ro m hm itnii-: to stock ;
I Practically every business concern1
in the city will bo visited during the'
next few da\s and invited to subscribe
to stock. Although the amount re-,
maining to be raised is comparatively!
Ismail, the backers of the new move-'
merit are determined to slack no efforts
in securing the immediate consumma
tion of the plan.
"It will Rive Richmond a black eye]
if Eho doesn't raise the money," was;
the sentiment voiced more than once i
at the meeting- "We can't let this:
! thing drop after it has gone as far as!
I it has," said others.
"It. Is not a philanthropic move
, nient," declared I.. ? ' Miller, one of
' the members of the committee which
has been Investigating the ptoposed j
railroad. "It is a cold business propo-,
sition, and I think that for ?!>0.000 it,
is the best proposition ever presented,
I to a city of this size '
| The meeting was called to order by
j W. T. Dabney. business manager of
the Richmond Chamber of Commerce, j
and John Kasloy was elected tem-;
porary chairman. As the heads of lo- j
cal business organizations, Alvin M. ,
Smith, of the Rotary t'luh; Albert I >. |
Roschen, of the Retail .Merchants' As
sociation; Coleman Wort ham, of the
Chamber of Commerce: President Ran-j
dolph. of Post A of the Travelers' Pro
tective Association, and John C. Kas
lcy, of the Real Kstate Exchange. sat
on the platform throughout the even
ing. T. M. Carrlngton was elected
permanent chairman, and Mr. Roschen
acted as secretary
CAHIIINOTON OI'TIJNBS
ITS KIXA M'lAl. SIUR
Klrst on the program was a state- |
ment by Mr. Carrlngton in regard to!
the proposed railroad. After briefly!
sketching the history of -the movement!
and outlining the financial side of Ihe |
(Contfnuod on Third Page.)
E, G. MOSELEY IS ELECTED
HEAD OP STATE EDITORS
Secretary Hurt and All Other Odlrm
Ke-F.lerted l?y Virginia News
paper Men.
STEAK NI.S DF.IjI VEItS AI1DRKSS
WondetifjuJ PnogweMfMnde in
Fielcl of Education,' With Co-Op
oration of Press?Constitution Is
Amended in Severn! Respects.
[ Special to The Times-I'dspatch.l
ST AITNTON, VA? July 27.?Tho busi
ness session of tlio Virginia Press As
soclation ended .it l:2f> o'clock this
afternoon with tho election of K. G.
Mosoley, editor of tlio Danville Metho
dist. as president: t li o re-election of
James L<. Hart, secretary; ?'?. W. Kan of, j
of New Castle, treasurer, and all other!
officers.
At 2 o'clock the women <>f the partyi
were entertained at luncheon by the
management of the Augusta Hotel, and
later, at the Country Club, the visitors:
enjoyed a trap shoot, a p olf tourney, j
dancing and music, the entertainment
closing with a luncheon.
11. PowolJ Chapman, editor of the |
Roanoke Times, presented invitations i
from the Chamber of Commerce, John j
Wood, secretary, and from Mayoi j
Charles Uroun, asklnc that th? next
meeting he held In Roanoke. Mr. Chap- '
man told of what the "Acorn City"
could do in the way of attractions.;
This was the only invitation received,;
and it was referred to the executive i
commit tee.
'I'KI,I,S oi<- I'nofiItloss
31A 1)1' 1\ Kill CATION
H. C. Stearnes, Superintendent of j
Puhlii: Instruction, addressed the as
semblage. He told of the wonderful j
progress of tho educational movement
in Virginia, and said it was brought
about only by the full-hearted co-op
eration afforded by the press of tho
State. In the past three years the at-|
tendance has increased it.j.noo. exceed
ing the record of the previous twenty
years. "The' press, the pedagogue, tho
patron, the pupil," he said, were the
four mighty "P's" forming the domi
nating force of cducatlon.il progress in
Virginia. Illiteracy has been reduced
to the minimum, while the increased
value of school propei t\ in the last
last ten years was from $ 1."00,000 to
$15,000,0110, an increase brought about
only by the work of the press in back
ing the educational movements <>f the
Commonwealth.
"I am not willing to turn on play
grounds Into military camps." he said,;
in opposing the. military spirit now in
creasing in the schools of the State,,
"but," he continued, "Industrial pre
paredness cannot be avoided." uid ho
said he would do everything possible,
to put Virginia schools on a platform
for the administration of industrial
preparedness.
The membership committe ? reported
eleven new members, and recommended
the appointment of a committee of live
from the several sections of the State
to bring within the association news
papers that are not now members. This
committee will be named later.
The linaiice committee reported the
books of Treasurer Kalies and Secre
tary llart in excellent order, showing
a balance of $123.4R.
The resolutions committee report
thanked the people of Staunton and
Harrisonburg for courtesies aim the
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone
Company for a special telephone with
free service The resolution bidding
Itohert S. r.arrett farewell u.is adopted
by a rising vote. The executive com
mittee again was asked t<> consider
the advisability of holding a business
meeting in the winter, and the appolut
"("ConTiuu'ed on Klf'th Pago.)
Nil Dalo for Tlieli* .M?rHi?{i fail Bo
Sot 1'ntil Senate Arts on
Xominiitions.
IX OPKIMTIOX BV XEXT SI'BIXG
Districts, With Kedernl Imnd Bank
in Kuril District?If oar inns May
Begin September.
WAS 11IXfJTOX, July L'7.? Division of
the country into twelve Fedora I land
Itank districts and location of Federal
land banks in each of them, under the
new rural credits law. will he under
taken .soon by the Federal Farm Loan
Hoard, four of whose members were
nominated to-day by President Wilson. I
Secretary McAdoo, who, as an ex oflicio
member, completes the board, said to- i
night, however, that he believed it
would bo impossible to conclude organ-;
iation of the system in less than six
months, and that it mic;Itt not he, in
actual operation before next spring:.
The four men nominated to-day as
members of the board are: Charles E.
Lobdell, of Kansas: iJonrge W. Xorrls,
of Pennsylvania; W. S. A. Smith, of
Iowa, and Herbert Quick, of West Vir
ginia. The President is expected to
designate either Mr. Xorris or Mr.
Quick, the Democratic members of the
board, 10 act as farm loan commissioner
and executive head of the farm loan
system.
Until the Senate acts on the nomina
tions, no date for a meeting can be
set, but it was believed probable to
night" the members would net together
within two weeks. Hearing on the
designation of districts and the loca
tion of banks probably will beam some
time in September. The first of these
Is expected to be held here, and most
of the State capitals probably will be
visited before they are. concluded. That
will require several months, and other
technical steps provided in the act pre
liminary to actual organization of the
bank probably will prevent operation
of the system before February or
Ma rch.
I.I t'l l.t: l-'llll IIOMtl) TO ?>o
ON IN I'lt t MIMi m:< IMO.NS
Although in making his selections
the President named a lawyer, a banker,
a fanner and an economist, it was
pointed out to-night that the board
would have little to ??> on In framing
its decisions. The vast amount of in
formation collected by the reserve
bank organization committee two years
ago in aligning the Federal reserve
districts and designating the Federal
reserve bank eentois will be virtually
valueless to the new board. That com
mittee paid particular attention to tho
tlow of commerce and the channels of
trade and to information from bankers,
and gave little heed to the farmer.
About the only directory provision
in the new law is that t'he twelve Fed
eral land bank districts shall be ap
portioned with "due regard to the
farm-loan needs of the country," and
tii.it State lines shall not be broken
in defining districts.
It was said to-night, however, that
the board, in locating the banks, would
consider tlrst cities which are near
farming centers, regardless of size or
other banking facilities, and that cities
which were ga-ndiriates for Federal re
serve banks, but failed to get them,
would be strongly considered for Fed
ci .it farm banks.
Kei|tie:-ts for loans under the law
.?tie idv have been tiled in large num
bers in the Treasury Department, but
no action can be taken on them until
(Continued on Third Pane.)
'/
.j
Indignant Over Reported
Incursion Into Chesa
peake Bay.
UNDER STRICT ORDERS
'ABOUT ZONE OF PATROL
Assurance of English Ambassa
dor Accepted by State
Department.
NEW MVSTERV TO INCIDENT
Inquiry Bcinc Marie I?.? Movement
Of Other \ pssels in Effort
fo Find Facts.
U'A SHI XG TON* in],. -
-itilv J.,,. Cecn
. rr.nB.R,c. ,h. Eri?sh amh??dor.
Informal Actm, s^rotary Polk ,?.dav
is
?r,..?1ro?
(?'ifo. i! Rr,Msh warship had entered
Chesapeake Hay. ;(S reports, b".?
^l^'amb^ "7 b",,,Mh|P Louisiana.
The ambassador said the British
-hip. h," ,,ric, ?r?.r, ?,.p
H.0,1hr"-m"" "">? Amcricn
iltotial waters to waylay the. c.er
lan ,'iihmarine Oeutschland or for ariv
other purpose, and ,h, admiral had re
ported thnt those i 11st root ions had not
been violated at any time
Mr. Polk was loin ,hat the British
admiral was very indignant nv?,- /jl
-Port thai one of his cruisers had
made an incursion into Ohesap-ake
Ray under cover of darkness P;,r|v v
terday morning. *
J|hi/U,#m"ll ?f 'h? ambassador
will he accepted hy the State Depart
ment. hut the commander of ihn
Louisiana is hem* pressed for furtheJ
details on his report that a craft which
Passed Mm a, Lynnhaven Inlet S\J.
na ed Lngllsh cruiser" Officials do
not know what to make of the case,
but some are led to believe that the
American officer was the victim of some
! kind of hoax.
| The armored cruiser North Caro
lina and the destroyers sent out to
the capes for neutrality duty yester
day will continue their patrol.
i \avv ok kit tons tikeuse ~
TO COM.MBXT OX OEXIAL.
XORFOUC. VA., July 27.?Xavy of
licets who were aboard the Louisiana
last luesday night when a vessel with
in the capes was reported to nave
signaled thai she was an "Engllsli
cruiser" today received the statement
of Sir Cecil Sprint?-Rice without com
ment. insisting that it would be manl
festly improper under the circum
stances for them to say anything.
From other sources, however. It was
learned that there was no disposition
011 the part of any of the men of the
Louisiana who originally averred they
saw ship which signaled that it was
an "English cruiser" to change their
stories. On at least two points?that
i unidentified ship had the general
outlines of a cruiser, and that she
signaled she was one?ai least five of
them will agree. It is said. Some of
the other three are understood to insist
that they saw certain other details
about the ship which convinced them
that, she was a man-of-war.
The most perplexing problem now
confronting government officials who
are investigating the incident is to
establish the identity of the mvsterious
ship. If she was not an English cruiser,
as officially denied.
SICiNALS AND Ml.Ill's
SHOW SUB WAS WARSHIP
? That she was a warship is obvious
.from the signals and lights she dis
played. u ,s insist(,di anf| SOVBrnmftnt
officials thus far have been unable to
i ascertain that any warship save the
I nited Mates collier Neptune was in
the capes at the lime the signals were
I said to have been seen. Suggestions
| that the Neptune displayed the signals
as a Joke, which have been made, were
at once discarded on the theorv that
no ship would he guilty of such a so
rioua act at this time, with the caper,
hugged by foreign warships. Persons
on the Louisiana also have said that
they saw and recognized the Xeptun*
near-by shortly after the unidentified
ship passed.
Mystery was added to the situation
? to-day before Collector Hamilton by
development* at an inquiry into the
movements ..f the Tlbagy. a Brazilian
merchant vessel, which some thought
might have been mistaken for a cruiser
I he inspector was closeted with the
two officers of the Tlbagy and an in
terpreter for more than an hour. He
refused to discuss their testimony, but
jthey later talked through a third p?r
; son.
;no a'I'tkjii*t mai>k
TO A.NSWKH SIOAl.S
Captain Soares. of the Tibagv, de
clared that he signaled 110 vessel with
in the capes, that he did not sight the
Louisiana, nor did ho carry blinker
lights, through which, persons aboard
1 lu- Louisiana aver, came the signal
I'.nglish cruiser." The only lights on
board beside his regular signals for
a merchant ship within the capes, be
declares, were electric bulbs on his
mast behind .1 board out of which wero
?nt the letters forming the word
Brazil. lie was of the opinion that
these letters could not have been mis
taken for blinker lights. He saw soma
vessels signaling him with the .Morse
?ode, be thought, but as it was not
understood on board his vessel, no at
tempt was made to reply to it.
It developed also that the Tlbagy
passed into the capes about 1 o'clock,
or soon after the Louisiana entered, in
stead of ll o'clock, as had been pre.
viously officially reported.
With strict enforcement of neutrality
/
