Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 19
SIILL EARLIER MAIL
SERVICE FOR CITY
AUTO TO BRING MAIL TO CITY
EACH MORNING—U. P. FUR.
NISHEN BETTER SERVICE
Postmaster James Doherty this
week announced that the department
had called for bids, to be filed at
Washington, D. C., not later than
August 22, for transporting mall by
auto stage from St. Clair, on the main
line, to Olympia at 4:30 every morn
ing, to furnish this city with an ear
lier outside mail than it now receives
and also make it possible to re-work
the mall here and send It on to Shel
ton on the stage at 6:45 each morn
ing. Detailß of the proposed arrange
ment can be obtained at the postofflce.
Since July 15, through a contract
with the Union Pacific system, Olym
pia has been receiving mall from the
north and south from three to seven
hours earlier than before, as it Is
being brought in on the 0.-W. freight
from the Chambers' Prairie station
about 7:30 in the morning. The pro
posed auto stage will replace this
service and bring the mail into Olym
pia early enough so that it can be
distributed on the first delivery each
morning. This change will go into
effect some time in September.
The service as it has been furnished
by the Union Pacific system has af
forded local merchants and whole
salers, particularly the oystermen, an
opportunity to ship out orders the
same day as received and several
hours earlier than before. The com
pany brings in on the morning
freight mail from Tacoma, Seattle
and the East, and from Portland and
California, that previously did not
reach here until 10:16 In the morn
iac and frequently not until 3:20 in
the afternoon.
It also delivers to the poatofflce at
12:45 mall from Portland and Cali
fornia that previously did not reach
the city until 3:20 in the afternoon
and at 6 o'clock in the evening Port
land and California mail that for
merly arrived here at 10:25 the fol
lowing morning. It dispatches mail
from the city at 11:26 in the morn
ing and 5:06 in the afternoon, afford
ing later closing hours than formerly.
The company obtained the contract
from the postofflce department at the
request of various local merchants,
acting through the Chamber of Com
merce, an! is being paid at the min
imum rate of 142.76 a mile, or a total
of 1386.87 for the year, the postofflce
department refusing any larger com
pensation until the next adjustment
of railway mall pay Is made in 1918.
The company states that the cost of
transporting the mall from its depot
to the poßtoffice will be approxi
mately this amount and that it will
receive no net revenue from the serv
ice, but that it accepted the contract,
feeling that the Interests of the busi
ness men and people of the city de
manded it, even at the sacrifice of its
own Interests.
Ingraham Gets 80 Days.
George Ingraham, who lived in a
shack in the woods along the trail
between Gate and Bordeaux, was
sentenced to 30 days in the county
Jail after a hearing before Justice
Walter Crosby Wednesday, when he
pleaded guilty to stealing chickens
from ranches in the neighborhood of
Gate and Little Rock. He was ar
rested the latter part of last week by
Deputy Sheriffs Gifford and Fennell
on a warrant that had been issued
about a year ago.
In spite of the rain, quite a num
ber of local grocers and butchers
went to OfTut lake Thursday, where
they Joined a big excursion of gro
cers and butchers from Aberdeen In
their annual picnic.
+ Democratic Meeting Here <•
+ Saturday. *
+ County Chairman R. M. Ful- 4*
+ ler this week called a meeting ❖
♦ of the Democratic precinct com
+ mitteemen, to be held at Eagles' +
<• hall at 1 o'clock Saturday after- ♦
❖ noon, to consider plans for the ❖
* coming campaign and to act «fr
upon any matters that may be ❖
❖ presented to them. A full at- *s*
•fr tendance is desired. *s*
Washington jltanlflriJ
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860,
CHAUTAUQUA NEXT YEAR.
First Show Pleases So Well, Contract
for 1017 Is Made.
With Olympia's first Chautauqua
last week a pronounced success, con
tract for a similar week's entertain
ment next year was readily signed
and all the necessary preliminary ar
rangements, including the sale of ap
proximately two-thirds of the re
quired season tickets, were made be
fore the system's first engagement
was completed.
Rev. D. A. Thompson, as chairman
of the local committee in cnarge of
this year's Chautauqua, has written a
letter to the local newspapers, thank
ing them for their assistance in giv
ing publicity to the show, and giving
credit to J. M. Hitt, Stanley T. Shaw,
Millard Lemon, Mrs. C. J. Lord, Jesse
T. Mills, J. C. Sams and the Elks'
band, for the work they did in con
nection with the Chautauqua.
STATE PRINTER'S COUSIN
KILLED OT FRISCO ROMR
One of Six Murdered in Anarchistic
Outrage During Preparedness
Parade.
H. L. Lamborn, cousin of State
Printer Frank M. Lamborn of this
city, was one of the six persons who
were killed in San Francisco last Sat
urday by a bomb thought to have
been exploded by anarchists in pro
test against the preparedness parade
which at the time was passing in re
view on Market street. From 20 to
40 persons were seriously injured,
four of them probably fatally, while
scores of others were slightly hurt,
by the explosion.
Mayor Rolph of San Francisco im
mediately ottered a 96,000 reward for
the capture of the perpetrators of the
outrage and the police of that city
have been making every effort to lo
cate them. No traces were left by
the man or men who left the bomb,
timed to explode, and sheltered in a
cheap aultcase, by the side of the
marchers.
The outrage is laid at the door of
the group of foreign anarchists who
have been sending out threatening
and warning letters in connection
with their "anti-militaristic" propa
ganda. A total of $14,000 In rewards
has been offered for the capture of
the person responsible for the out
rage.
Mitctael Harris will formally pre
sent Friday evening to the Uniformed
Rank of the local lodge Knights of
Pythias, known as Mttchel Harris
Company No. 6, a large flag, to re
place the one he had previously
given them but which was destroyed
by Are. The members of the com
pany will go to Vancouver, Wash.,
Sunday to attend the state encamp
ment of the order, and at Portland
next Tuesday will participate in a
parade in connection with the en
campment of the supreme lodge.
TOM TAYLOR ARRESTED
Former Saloonkeeper Charged With
Receiving Liquors Illegally.
Following a raid on his home on
East Fourth street Tuesday after
noon, Thomas Taylor, one of the Tay
lor Bros, who formerly conducted the
Oxford saloon In this city, was arrest
ed by Deputy Sheriff Jack Gifford
Wednesday on a justice court war
rant sworn out by Prosecuting Attor
ney Geo. F. Tantis, charging him
with "receiving intoxicating liquors
under circumstances not authorized
by law."
Taylor was released on $250 bond,
furnished by his brother and Pete
Yelich. The raid Tuesday, which
was conducted by Deputy Sheriff Gif
ford, Chief Caton and Patrolman
Campbell, resulted In the discovery
of a large number of broken whisky
bottles In the cellar of the Taylor
home, a tub of soapsuds which the
officers say was strongly flavored with
whisky, a number of empty cases,
and a case of whisky on the porch,
labelled "honey." delivered by an
express company while the officers
were at the home, but which Taylor
refused to accept.
TRY OLYMPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAT."
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916
HEARING TUESDAY ON COUNTY AGENT PLAN
QUESTION OF RE-ESTABLISHING FARM EXPERT SYSTEM
HERE TO BE DISCUSSED WITH COMMISSIONERS—THE
GRANGES GENERALLY FAVORABLE STATE COLLEGE
REPRESENTATIVE HERE CONFERRING WITH FARMERS
—LARGE MEETING DESIRED.
Hearing will be held by the county commissioners at 1:30 next
Tuesday afternoon, which every farmer in the county is urged to
attend, on the question of re-establishing in this county the farm
expert system which was discontinued the first of this year. Ar
rangements for the hearing were made by R. B. Coglon, who is in
(harge of this work for the extension department of the Washington
State college and who has spent several days in Olympia and Thurs
ton county, discussing the proposal with various farmers.
The call for the hearing follows several months' quiet work by
the Grangers of the county, as the result of which the re-employment
of a farm agent was recommended in resolutions adopted by 11 of
the subordinate Granges of the county, by the Pomona Grange, and
Ihe Mound Prairie Farmers' club. Mr. Coglon personally took
charge of the work upon learning of the favorable stand of the
Granges of the county, and arrived in Olympia Tuesday.
Since then, accompanied by Pomona Master L. L. Snow and
State Secretary Fred W. Lewis, Mr. Coglon has visited various parts
of the county, interviewed various farmers, and attended several
Grange meetings. Thursday evening he spoke at a big Grange meet
ing at the McLane Grange hall, attended by representatives of six
subordinates.
Mr. Coglon will remain in the county until after the hearing
next Tuesday. He is particularly anxious to have a large attendance
then, and urges all who may be opposed to the county agent plan as
well as those who favor it, to attend.
"We feel we want to renew the work that was started here last
year," Mr. Coglon said Thursday, in discussing plans for the meet
ing, "and because we were not able to continue the work, we feel the
funds were poorly spent.
"We are satisfied that if Thurston county will give a good man
un opportunity to become established in his work, we can justify the
expense. That has been our experience in every other county, and
the commissioners of all of them recently expressed themselves as
completely satisfied with the expenditure.
"The work is growing in favofrall over the state, as it becomes
better understood. We find, in fact, that the opposition to it, as
well as to State College work in general, comes from those who mis
understand.
"If the farmers and commissioners of Thurston county want to
continue the work here, we will do the best we can to find a suitable
man, the State College co-operating with the commissioners, and will
continue to make recommendations until we find one who is satis
factory.
"The extension department," he concluded, "is in a much better
position to assist a man now than it was before."
If the commissioners are favorable, the work can be resumed
here September 1, Mr. Coglon believes. If the commissioners ap
prove, the request will then go to the department at Washington,
D. C., for approval and authority for the expenditure of the funds
by the State College for its share of the cost will come from there.
OUTLINE OF FEDERAL FARM LOAN ACT.
The rural credit law, Just passed by congress and signed by
President Wilson, provides for the creation of 12 federal land
banks and permits the eetablishment of any number of joint-stock
land banks lor the purpose of making loans at a reasonable rate of
interest, for long periods of time, on farm lands.
A federal farm loan board has complete control over these
banks.
Twelve federal land banks are provided, one in each of 12 dis
tricts into which tie country will be divided. These banks are
empowered to lend on first mortgages on farm lands in amounts
of SIOO to SIO,OOO for approved purposes. The loans are to be
made through farm loan associations and agents. No loan may
be made for more than 60 per cent of the value of the land mort
gaged and 20 per cent of the value of the permanent improvements
upon it.
National farm loan associations—local organizations composed
exclusively of borrowers—are authorized. These associations must
be stockholders In the land banks in proportion to the amount
their members wish to borrow. Eventually all stock In the federal
land banks will be owned exclusively by these associations.
A reasonable interest rate is established. The act prohibits
the federal land banks from charging more than 6 per cent on any
mortgage, or requiring fees not approved by the farm loan board.
The borrowers will share in the net profits of the bank because
they are stockholders. It is contemplated that ultimately the bor
rowers will be the only stockholders.
Long-term loans are provided by authorizing mortgages for
periods of from 5 up to 40 years.
Small annual or semi-annual payments on the principal are
made a required feature of all mortgages.
(B) Joint Stock Land Banks.
Joint-stock land banks are authorized. They are corporations
for carrying on the business of lending on farm mortgage security
and issuing farm loan bonds. They are to be under the supervision
of the farm loan board, but the government will not invest in them.
Subject to geographical limitations and subject to the 50 and 20
per cent limitation, these banks can lend to an individual any
amount they wish, and for any purpose. They cannot charge an
interest rate exceeding 6 per cent, and such rate must not exceed by
more than 1 per cent the Interest they have paid on thpir last issue
of bonds. Their mortgages, however, must provide for amortiza
tion payments. These banks are prohibited from charging, under
any pretext, fees or commissions other than those authorized by
the act.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖ -<• •£« •!* * ❖
Wants Both Sides Represented.
Will Co-Operate With
(A) Federal Land Banks.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
BREWERY BILL ON BALLOT.
Official Count Gives It SI ,300 Valid
Signatures Out of 00,784.
When the official count of the sig
natures on the petitions filed in sup
port of the brewers' initiative bill was
finished Saturday, it was found that
there were 51,360 valid names. The
names on the petitions totaled 69,784
of which 17,774 were uninitiated by
the registration officers and 650 were
eliminated because of duplications.
The bill would permit the manufac
ture of beer in this state and Its sale
direct to private families. It will be
the only initiative bill on the ballot.
The uninitiated names and the
names of the duplications will be cer
tified to the various prosecuting at
torneys of the state. Any person who
signs a petition when not registered
is guilty of a misdemeanor under the
law, and the same applies to those
who sign more than once.
FARMERS' AUTO PARADE
FEATURE OF COUNTY FAIR
Committee Announces General Plans
for Second Annual Exhibit,
September 12-16.
General outlines of the program
for the second annual Thurston Coun
ty Fair, September 12 to 16, were
announced this week by the commit
tee, which has provided several in
teresting features for the week. More
detailed announcements will be made
later, \
As now planned, Tuesday, Septem
ber 12, will be Olympia and Farmers'
Day, and at noon there will be a
parade of farmers In automobiles ap
propriately decorated to show the
line of farming in which they are
most Interested. A first prite of
$7.60 and a second of $5 will be
given for the best decorated ma
chines.
The following day there will be a
grand parade of stock, when all ex
hibitors will be requested to take
that space has already been reserved
show ring. The committee states
that space has already been reserved
for as much stock as was shown at
the Fair last year, which the commit
tee takes as an indication that some
fine stock will be displayed thla year.
A baseball game will be arranged
for Thursday morning. Friday will
be Children's Day, and County Super
intendent O. C. Goss is making ar
rangements which will permit the
school children of all parts of the
county to attend the Fair that day.
The educational display, under Mr.
Goss' direction, will be one of the im
portant features of the Fair.
Saturday morning an auction sale
of stock will be conducted, for the
benefit of all exhibitors who have'
stock for sale. The committee an
nounces that one of the great attrac
tions of the Fair will be the display,
of wild birds to be made by H. W.
Myers of Butler's Cove, who expects
to exhibit some 250 birds.
SIX MORE CANDIDATES
Twenty Republicans Now Seek Nomi
nations to Various County Offices.
Twenty candidates, all of them Re
publicans, are now in the field for the
various county offices, six more having
filed during the past week. No can
didates for county auditor, state rep
resentatives, state senator or prose
cuting attorney have yet appeared on
the Republican ticket, and there are
still several candidates who have an
nounced themselves for other offices,
who have not yet formally filed their
declarations of candidacy.
The new candidates this week are:
T. H. Gaines of Tono and F. H. Hig
glns of Rochester, for Bherlff; J. W.
Peters of Olympia and J. Sox Brown
of Rochester, assessor; J. C. Sams, re
tiring assessor, for commissioner in
the First district, and R. H. Ober of
Tono for Justice of the peace in that
precinct. Mr. Sams is the only candi
date for the nomination in the First
district, though there are three in the
Second district.
A total of $29,245.48 was distrib
uted among the school districts of
the county in the July apportionment,
$7,032.62 from the state fund and
$22,212.86 from the county.
WHOLE NUMBER 2918
GILLIES ARRESTED
AT FLORIDA PORT
FUGITIVE 18 CAPTURED AFTEB
WIRING HERE FOR FUNDS—
ROBERTS ALSO CAUGHT.
J. F. Gillies, escaped looter of
the Industrial insurance funds,
was arrested In Key West, Flor
ida, Thursday, after he had wired
to Olympla for 980 funds
been apprehended at the tele
graph office In that city when he
went to collect the money. Ht
will be brought back to ttw
Walla Walla penitentiary by two
traveling guards, according to
an announcement by Governor
Ernest Uster.
Under the name of J. F. Penfold,
Gillies wired to Miss Qulnn Trott of
this city, a former stenographer In
the offices of Parr & Marts, associate
counsel for Gillies, and an acquain
tance of the Qillles family. Mia*
Trott turned the 'telegram over to
Prosecuting Attorney Geo. F. Yantle
and he and Deputy Sherilt Jack Gif
ford, who had previously heard Gil
lies was in Key West, wired the
authorities there to take "Penfold"
into custody when he applied at the
office for the money.
Gillies at first denied his Identity,
but when confronted with a complete
description, broke down and admit*
ted he was the desired fugitive. He
refused to make any statement about
his escape, but expressed anxiety for
his wife, who, he said, "stood by me
through everything."
Clues to Gillies were obtained aftar"
the arrest at Brighton. Colo., t
Sunday, of his companion, Hoary
Roberta, with whom he escaped (reap
the local county jail July 8. Robert*
is being brought back to Olympia by
Bherlff Fred W. McCorkle, who want
to Brighton Monday. After bis mr~
rest, Roberta said that Gillies ha 4
ditched him at La Salle, Colo., toav*
Ing him without fun da, and that Oil
lies was headed for New Orleans or
seme other Gulf port, to take a boat
to Buenos Aires. The local authori
ties immediately wired ahead to
cialo at the different porta to be oa
the watch for Olllies.
Roberts *u arrested last Sao day
night In a cafe at Brighton, Colo*
where he had been working
Tuesday, July 11. The town !• •
small one, about 20 miles north at
Denver. An exchange of telegram
between Brighton and Olympla soon
established his Identity and, after m
short bluff, Roberts consented to re
turn to Olympla.
Deserted by Gillies.
His story Is that Gillies deserted
him at La Salle, Colo., leaving hi—
without funds. They were to haw
met again at Brighton, but after Gil
lies failed to show up, Roberts went
to work in a restaurant in that city.
He says he has helped to make up
Gillies, described the letter's make
up the last time he saw him, and said
he was very nervous.
Gillies, according to Roberts, wae
beaded for Kansas City or some other
city in Kansas, to meet a woman
Cleo Hutchinson, with whom Gillie*
bad previously associated in this city
and upon whom it is said he spent
much of the money he obtained
through the industrial insurance
frauds. Front Kansas City the two
were to go to some gulf seaport, Rob
erts said, to board a boat for South
America.
Upon receiving this information,
the local authorities wired officials
at all the gulf porta to be on the
lookout for Gllliea, and Governor
Lister telegraphed Secretary of State
Lansing, giving a full description of
the fugitive and requesting the state
department to notify the Argentine
(Continued on page 8.)
+ + + + +++ + t
•5* Plum Station People Win. ♦
The county commissioners ♦
this week upheld the protest of *
❖ Plum Station residents to the +
•5* division of their school district ♦
4> as recently made by County Su- ♦
❖ perintendent O. C. Ooss to pro
❖ vide for a new school at Offut ♦
'♦ lake, and this actios restores +
| ❖ the old district. As a rcault, the +
❖ Offut lake people will have to *
4» send their children to the Plum
❖ Station school again next win- ♦
❖ ter. ♦
Published
Continuously
For 65 Yews
