WEATHER FORECAST
Tartly cloudy tonight and Satur
day. Local thunder showers Saturday,
00ALA, FLORIDA, FRIDAY JULY, 28, 1916
VOL. 22, NO. 182
mm
1:1
lil
Y
llu
'Ml
Jl
PI
bit
IUIE
IL
rntrm
01
01
: , " - " " . i .,
nrnMA'M rniPiiTnii
urai" ill, riiiin i s-sii
uliiivinn i iiiuiiii us-sy
Riroo
LilU
u
a hail If
i !i
J 1 5
fc-Z3 iJ
Assumed the Offensive on the Greek. Frontl
Against Its Ancient Enemies
H SEA GAPTA1T1 SHOT FOfl WHAT AMERICANS
' ViOULD GOIiSIDER A GALLANT ACT ;
(Associated Press)
FIERCE CHARGE OF RUSSiA'I TRQDFS SUCCESSFUL 01! THE WESTERIi FBOllT-STUBBOBil
. a cods m:g the soi.ii.ie
FIGfl
T-
(Associated Press)
London, July 28. -The Russians
have penetrated German trenches at
Auberive on the Champagne front,
clearing them with hand grenades and
taking many prisoners, says a French
official statement.
BRITISH TOOK DELVILLE WOOD
' The British have captured all of the
Delville wood on . the Somnie front,
driving out the Brandenburg regi
says the London war office.
BROUGHT DOWN TEUTON BIRD-
,' ; MEN -Vr'-;-.1
Jl FALSE ALARM MEXICAN MATTERS
Berlin, July 28. Captain Charles
Fryatt, who was in command of the
Great Eastern steamer Brussels cap
tured by German destroyers last
month, and who was taken to Zeer
brugge, was executed by a firing
squad after a German naval court
martial. He was tried and convicted
of trying to ram a German , subma
rine. . . , '
FRYATT TRIED TO RAM A GER
MAN SUB
Believed that Sixty-Five Picked Men
From Each Company will
Go to the Border
Report that the Submarine Bremen I Administration Officials Will
Had Been Captured by . . Another Talkfest with
the British - . . .-' Senor Arredondo
(Associated Press)
Captain Fryatt was tried at Bruges,
Belgium, yesterday. Testimony was
submitted that Captain Fryatt, March
28, 1915, attempted to ram the Ger-
Hav man submarine U-33, near Maas
lightship. . .
Captain Fryatt, his first officer and
first engineer received gold " watches
from the British adiniralty for "brave
conduct,' and were mentioned in the
house of commons at the time.
The submarine, according to the of
(Associated Press)
Portland Maine, July 28. The re- Washington, July 28. After the
Jport received here saying the German 1 cabinet meeting today, at which the
I submarine merchantman Bremen had Mexican situation was discussed, Act-1 - . , x t, f hus .:
. ; l : t i . x- J . n L"i - ni-i- , - , e
Two German aeroplanes have been ipeen capmreu aim was uemg wweu ing secretary ox oiaw rum nailed the British steamer to stop
shot down in the Somnie region, Paris naiuax nas not ueen wnurmeu., ea lor a conierence wmi oenur Af- which order. was t Jieeded, the
ys. BREMEN NOT AT HALIFAX r.eaona0! mCiai "V OI Britisher turning at higli spefcd and
nmin: rtmttsii I ' , . . ! Ia eZVln mf: the submarine escaped ,only by diving.
' "" . : St. Johns, isew urunswiCK, jury zs. mgton. ivir. roi.. suiueu ma, ue rtain Frvatt i, said to have admit-
nnntff rl- - ' 1 . . .1 i 1. 1 Ml 1 A X I X- .
u,ruLDi I j. u. tiazen.. minister oi marine ana proDaDiy wm mane an auuuumwuv .v..f v, ma fiinTOin. Tft
:sheries, denied the reports in circu- tomorrow. x isb admiralty's instructions.
ALL GIVEN AMNESTY
GERMANS
n"rr Z Zil ZZ lation that the German y submarine
British attacks on the Foureaux wood, , , . . . .
. ., . . ric-,i Bremen had been captured and taken
m the Somme region, were repulsed f .
" " ' I men is not there
SERBIANS RENEW THE STRIFE
Serbian troops have begun an of-
Mexico City, July 28. Five hun
dred Villa followers who were cap
tured at Zacatecas by General Plank,
according to government reports, have
Halifax, July 28 Nothing is known J been given amnesty.
MAKING EFFORTS TO
ASCERTAIN THE FACTS
WAS NEWS TO HALIFAX
Editor Star: In their letters on the
proposed bond issue for Marion, Mr.
lensive agax ns. umgarm Jlhere of the rmen . story further V-Another. dispatch states that Ig- L. S. Light; of Reddick; Mr. C P.
according to a newspaper dispatch . 1fA1,- wj: waWraff Mr n a; Wnor d the
r f ctt m: m.. mail iuc icuu. t tiuiu ncn ivtk wu-i""vw .v,v., - . .
received in
have taken several heights.
ing of the circumstantial 'story pub-jer, has been killed at San Luis Potosl. J other gentlemen, I believe, are simp-
TV0 SHIPS
lished there, purporting to . quote a
letter saying the Bremen had been
taken .
FAVORS GOOD ROADS
British Given a Severe Naval Defeat,
According to a Report
from Berlin
(Associated Press)
Berlin, July ' 28. Two British ves
sels have been sunk in a battle be
tween several German submarines and
four British patrol boats, according to
a
news agency.
ly making an effort to get at the
facts. That is proper. That is what
those promoting the bond issue de
Mr. J. L. Smith of Martel tfis in I sire. It is believed that the bond
11 1 i 1 ! I? L ; 1 Al
ELECTRIC BOLT KILLED ' tne city loaay awenamg io Dusmess i issue cannot carry uniess we vovers
GIRL IN ORLANDO jm 18 v,ery 'enthusiastic over! know just what is what, and every
, fine proposed Donamg oi Marion coun-i en on win oe maae to mase Known
nine-year-old . daughter of Mr. and) ' . - ; ,1, . , . .
ir xtr o t si. which our section can be better ben-1 have to do with the effect on taxes.
Mrs. W.. S. Joneswas instantly killed I . A .t . -A . . -
by a bolt of lightning at, the Jones "S?, T"
home on West Church street here yes- ouut" . 7" T T J w 1 I
terday. The bolt struck a tree in the e s oi coimty ana w . "r u,
vard. Several other members of the always at .tiie front when it comes to raised, will be thrashed out as
DW cwv -m Jnnw anything for. the advancement of thoroughly as possible between now
. -. . . , ' . , I Florida. " He savs that wIipti the nlan i and the bond election, if it is called.
was knocked senseless ana remamea i 7 . - 7 T .7 . . ,
i for thirty minutes It j Placing me proposition Deiore xnei : xne precinct meeuxigs vuat are ue-
SECOND OCALA TEAM
v DEFEATED REDDICK
. I nnnnncmnno
report given out by a semi-official J a . fisf f1,of u ' niCA i,afi people is thoroughly understood he, ing held, and the convention to be held
, , . believes there will be but little op in Ocala on August 7, are for the
A peculiarity of .the tragedy was Fslllon to tne pona issue.- p;rire 01 asceriamm in sentiment
nlo fnr,0 dm A UOUUIJ; wwaiu. a uunu issue.
. i v rA I ' ' LOWELL
oeveii, wuu atsvr was jxivwv otuot
looa Vr the Knit "UThATl t.llA chiM VHI
A second team went to "Reddick etr noj that the lie-ht- iTiesday, Miss Lallian Kgan return- been c-ired to send delegates to tne
yesterday and defeated the team of . had left a mark on his breast eJ a visit to friends in Ocala. conven Lie: here, any citizen will be
that place by a score of 6 to 4. Clay- .w vow ThM the T"6 visitors to Salt Springs return- welcomed, m order that the whole
- , : l , ; " I j rm j : I AX I-T.X 1 :
ton lannea tne nrst nve men tnai toMuv fa af . Tio In,? I ea xasi, xuursuay evening. i matter xuigui. ue guue uvw.
The meetings will be binding on no
one. and while the precincts have
laced mm, ana seventeen out oi a wag unconscious for about half an
possible twenty-six during the game jj0ur
ana only auoweatwo mts.
Besides Clayton's pitching the
feature of the game was the hitting
of the Ocala boys, ten hits being
made. A three-bagger by Marsh and
two-baggers by Dinkins, Clayton and
ERROR IN FRANK'S AD.
The compositor in setting the type
for Frank's advertisement which ap-
The future home of Mr. and Mrs. ' The figures, compiled by the com-
Fred Meffert is now being prepared, mittee consisting of W. D. Cam, David
It is a pretty white cottage near the j S. Welch, and E. M. Osborn, . show
depot, and when finished will be one j that the bond issue will - reduce
of the prettiest homes here. We shall j rather than increase taxes. These
be glad to welcome them home. I figures have been published in the
Mr. A. Seevers made a business trip j Star, and can be obtained from any
to . Ucala Monday. 1 member of the committee ior the ask-
Hardage, the latter's bringing in the . IT Z The farmers, are setting out sweet ing. Later every voter will be fully
winning runs, led the hitters. Jim m , a, in5erwaoae potatoes, and preparing the land to supplied with facts and figures.
Fort made a pretty one-hand catch ?iais.,wmcu ".e Treu,T "r" sow peas for forage. . The location the roads, and the
in centerfield. i.v SZ7 Z l Mr. Will McGehee,was in town kind of roads, will depend upon wha
The line-up for Ocala was: C P. r 1 Tsu """A"l'1"cta Al" I Monday and set up Mr. Hall's pump- will best meet the demands of the peo
Clayton, p: Marsh, Istb; B. S. Smith, 7ntl u"1Jf a T ing engine. pie, and upon the recommendations of
2nb: B. Brooks, ss; Goldman, 3rdb? aays!."u r to , ; IiW uc The Ladies'. Sewing Circle met with competent engineers.
Hardage, If : J. Fort, cf; R. Sampson, l"pf r Mrs. H. T. HaU Wednesday after- The point has been raised as to
rf. Batteries: ' Ocala, Clayton and uk. n0oa. ; ,. ' s whether $900,000 will take care of ev
Dinkins; Reddick, Sherouse, Clay and
Denham. ' - . .
The Ocala boys made the trip in
one of, the Seminole jitney buses.
there was no , intention to mislead on
the. part of the proprietor.
MASONS' SPECIAL MEETING
Mr. and Mrs. Albert Henry McLean I ery road in the county. Obviously i
are visiting Mr. McClean's sister, I will not. On the other hand the mile-
Mrs. B. O. Webb. ' I age of good roads built is built to
Mr. J. M. Meffert is here frequent-1 stay built, so that when further funds
ly looking after his bier farm. I become available additional roads can
The members of Marion-Dunn Messrs. Theron and Olnev Hall en- be buUt. If the county has to be
Lodge No. 19. F. & A. M., held a spe- tertained the Pnnlf PlnK ' Thnr-eAw rnnstnTitlv renairincr roads that have
i - ' . - 1 . . m i v m . it l I , w -
The Lake WTeir Wl C. T. U. held its -11 ""J 1 evening. i been constructed, to increase tne num
reirular meeting July 13. The meet- vi " " i jar. j. m. jvienert is using the trac-1 ber oi naru-sunacea roaas win De an
LAKE ' WEIR W. C. T. U.
LOIIIDA TROOPS MAY '
MOVE AUGUST FIRST
inir was called to order by Mrs. J. F. mr; r""- . . ' tor, which he bought recently, to ficult.
c-r, pMvnr hv Tir Rwm Dr. Axter wii ceiemuu, muoi, uu- Dreak land for his fall cron of neaa. Marion county needs better an!
Uii,"'""' " J i . .. - . - I ,. : I -
Swan took chanre of the literary part ulul pasi 3 J . 17 f pre- The machine is doing pretty work, more permanent roads. Either taxes
immediately as she had to leave on fsented to Past Master A.; Hi. Burnett is saving much labor. must be raised, or bonds issued. The
the train. Subject, Medical Temper- by Mr. Jake lirown, who denvered an Mr. James Hall and Mr; Hanalin, question to be answered at the con
ance. Reading from the latest Med- l0(luent b" w. to Mr. uurnett. cf the Citrus Canker Eradication force vention to be held here on August 7
ical Journal on the latest discovery Alter tne business oi tne evening were in town Tuesday looking for is: Are the people of Manon county
of the effect of alcohol and medical vas over, refreshments were served, canker in shipments of trees. They prepared to consider the calling of an
law. Discussion of the subject. Min- 7 were entertained at noon at the home election on the proposition to bond
iites of last meeting approved. Roll lOUK IJOWtLS bnUULU of Mr. H. T. Hall. I for good roads 7 With this question
call temperance truths. Moved and) , MOVE ONCE A DAY . . answered the details can then be
carried 'that Mr. Van P. Kelsey re-j A free easy movement of the bowels j Taking Big Chances worked out, an election held, and
cc ive a vote of thanks for his kind a3- every day is a sign Osgood .health. It is a great risk to travel without the proposition voted for or voted
. . . . . I r)i- KiTTir'a rTo-OT T.ife Pilla will nve i Krtttlo n-f DiiniW1aiii rvi I j t tt rn i '
CKfawo nur late Tuenic. An in-1"' "..' V" . . ." . I Xi. vwixc, aown. u. a. unazai.
I villi kl f 1 1 ih f i Hi i Vf r.n n:u wf liiiiiil ivr xnn ii rrnnon t r r tt m -t ei
i. fnt An inn c? ovtondort hV tV0 OIrO. I J X VI J I x" . . . . . J ' , .
"-"-N . lEnpinK anu xree yuur system ux uiouui ureparauon cannot De Obtained on the
fnnr fi-ziwi hV T.aiff T . Ire W. (:'T: 1 1. 1 nmsrvris -' nnritv vnivr . hlfm1 nverpntne 1 trnna tY etooTneht-no Aw.1- .1 th j , x xv.x.
Xm Attn!. mAilnl jAlf ac An rtia 91 o- ! constination and have an excellent I bowel comnlaint are often snHeTi on l .1 . -.titttc j; xt x.
mj uitii uivua. v.vliv xx vx.. x.x.0v x . ' flr. xv x;. x. . j C V, I tne xamous iunmo uanuiess, uie uesi
(Special Correspondence of the Star)
Black Point, July 27. There is a
rumor afloat that sixtyfive picked men
from each company will leave the first
of August for the border. All com
panies have been issued field equip
ment, consisting of spades picks,
axes axfd cooking utensils. All com
panies have also been issued head
nets, which are to be used for men
doing guard duty. . . '.
The work being done here is mostly
extended order drill, bayonet drill,
right flanking and outpost duty. '
The recruiting ' officers ; returned
yesterday ' with only thirty-four re
cruits. ' 7.7 .-v - -7
There are about one thousand men
and forty-nine officers in the Second
Regiment. Patriotism seems to be on
the lull. " ' 7 7
' While all "red-blooded" Americans
are singing "on to Mexico," there are-
a few "yellow backs" at home who
are singing "Keep the Home Fire
Burning." We would suggest some
thing more appropriate, "When War
Breaks Out in Mexico, I'm Going to
MontreaL? ' - - - -
The Second Regiment needs four
hundred true Americans to bring it
up to war strength. - It is true that
the men already here have been com
pelled to go "short," but nevertheless
they are making the best of things,
and will suffer still more hardships
in order to,, demand respect for the
Stars and Stripes. Wash the yellow
off your backs, men, and do your
part!
Sergeant Cook left last night for
a few days furlough.
WANTED!
150 Housewives 150
Every man in Company A is badly
In need of a good "housewife,", as it's
almost impossible for a soldier to
get along without one. Should all
mothers, wives and sweethearts vol
unteer to contribute one to each man
in Co. A they would be highly appre
ciated. A "housewife" consists of
a spool of olive drab thread, needles,
and half dozen O. D7 buttons. T
The First Battalion went out on a
8-mile hike, leaving; at 7 a. m going
through the fiatwoods until they
reached 104th street, about two miles
south of Ortega. Co. A was in the
lead, sending out one squad as ad
vance outposts, with two. squads as
advance guard, The men moved out
104th street (a dirt road) for about
two miles, crossing McGirt's creek.
After a thirty minute rest the bat
talion squad righted for camp. The
run was made behind a heavy cloud
and the rain that fell the night be
fore made it an ideal day for hiking.
The men are all getting toughened
and take an 8-mile hike with ease.
All the men stood the "hike well, none
falling out. A halt was called at the
gate to the camp ground, where the
companies assembled and marched to
camp at attention.
Signalmen A. M. Davis and John
Colley did the signalling, wigwagging
from line of column to out guard.
Both Davis and Colley have obtained
considerable proficiency in the art of
sending orders by wigwagging helio
graph and semaphore, both attending
school daily. 7
The regiment corps expect to take
wireless work in the near future.
The battalions were back at camp
and dismissed at 10 o'clock. :
I
1
11
Iff : ;
II '
m ' i nn
W
Given America By the
trian Government
Aus-
EIIGIISH WILL LET SUPPLIES PASS ,011 RECEIPT OF Till
PROPER ASSUnAIICES '
(Associated Press)
Washington, July 28. Informal. as
surances that Austria-Hungary is dis
posed to respond favorably to Presi
dent Wilson's personal appeal for per
mission to ship American relief sup
plies to the Poles in territory held by
Austrians, has been given personally
by Foreign Minister Burian to Am
bassador Penfield.
The statement department has re
ceived thru . Ambassador Page the
British statement that they are will
ing for supplies to be sent to Poland,
provided the Teutons wouldn't seize
or remove the products occupied ter
ritory. It is feared that this condi
tion will block-negotiations.
SEE
Commander of the U. S. Collier Cor
s 7 roborated the Story of the
v Louisiana's Captain
(Associated Press)
New. York, July 28. Commander
Shane of the United States collier
Neptune, corroborated the statement
made by officers of , tne . battleship
Louisiana that they saw a cruiser
within the Virginia capes Tuesday
morning. Captain Shane said he saw
the cruiser leaving about 3 o'clock.
HAMPSHIRES WILL
BE THE MARION HOGS
STALKING Till lli
Gill
Grim Reaper Mows Down the Children
7 of New York and " - '
' ' Chicago
A-
the
10
V i 73 7Z.r LwNic ffect on the entire system, very sevefe, and everyone should go1 T C n !
July, and was accepted. Adjourned you feel like Jiving. Only 25c prepared for them. Obtainable every-1- Fresh each week. The Court
. i.
meeun two weetis.
Reporter. Jat druggists.
Adv. 3 I where.
Adv.
Pharmacy.
tf
Bilicusness and Stomach Trouble
"Two years ago I suffered from fre
quent, attacks of stomach trouble and
biliousness," writes Miss Emma Ver
bryke, Lima, Ohio. "I could eat very
little food that agreed with me and I
became so dizzy and sick at my
stomach at times that I had to take
hold of something to keep from fall
ing. Seeing Chamberlain's Tablets
advertised I decided to try them. I
improved rapidly." Obtainable every
where. Ad7.
Following the adoption by the
bankers on Tuesday of the Hamp
shire s as the breed of hog for the
boy's pig club work in this county,
and ' the hog proposed for all of the
farmers of the county to adopt, in
order that Marion might become ' fa
mous "for its Hampshires," R. W.
Blaeklock, county demonstration
agent, announces that all of the
fathers of the pig club boys; with one
or two exceptions have agreed to,
adopt the breed selected. .
In a letter to the boys, Mr. Black-
lock says:
"The price is going, to be higher
than we hoped. The 'breeder's all
said that the pigs we wanted were
worth $25 or better right at home for
meat and we decided that we had
better pay 'more and get the better
pigs. We expect to get pigs weigh
ing better than 200 pounds and you
must realize that it will ba a dandy
to weigh that much at one year old.
The s price will be $40 .delivered at
Ocala, but you will get pigs which
would cost you at least $60 were you
to buy them under ordinary condi
tions. The Duroc was next choice at
$50 but we decided that $50 was al
most too much so we took the Hamp
shire. ' -;:':7'-- v.- '-7',
. "Now the Hampshire is a mighty
fine hpg and one whichr-the experi
ment 'station reports as being well
adapted for Florida conditions. I
think the boys will have very , little
trouble in selling the best of their
young pigs to, the farmers this fall
as they all want to come with us
and make Marion famous v. as a
Hampshire county.
If it is found necessary, the banks
will increase the annroDriation of
$1,000 recently made to assist in the
pig club work.
E. C Stone, of Peoria, I1L, secre
tary of the National Hampshire As
sociation, in a letter to Mr. Black-
lock, says among other things:
"I have recently received reports
from packers in Georgia, Alabama,
Tennessee, Indiana and Chicago, 111.
The reports that these packers make
(Associated Press?
New York, July 28. During
twenty-four hours ending at
o'clock this morning there have been
thirty-five ue-lhs and thirty-four new
Cases of infantile paralysis. This is
a considerable reduction in the num
ber, of new cases.
IN CHICAGO
Chicago, July 28. There were
twenty-three deaths and more than
forty prostrations from heat here for
the last twer.ty-f our hours. The tem
perature was 93 this morning.
The total number of deaths report
ed this morning was twenty-five.
their packing houses are detained fay
the government inspector , for any
cause. ' '
"The average number of pigs per
sow according to the statement of
Perdue State University for the state
of Indiana in 1915 was four pigs to
the sow. The average litter for tha
Hampshire sow, was slightly above
eight pigs to the sow.
"You will notice further that the
Hampshire-breeder is supported by
the Record Association to a greater
extent than . any other breed in the
world. , If our county selects the
Hampshire breed, you will be; sup
ported by special premiums, both in
pig club work,' and in open classes'.
"Wherever green feed is a part of
the ration, the Hampshire had no real
competitor.
"In the year 1904," says Mr. Stone,
"there were about 20 Hampshire
breeders. Today we have over 23,000
well established Hampshire herds."
DANCE AT DUNNELLON
Last night a very enjoyable dance
was given by the young men of Dtm
nellonj in their hall. The music was
imported from Crystal River and
composed cf , two negroes playing a
mandolin and guitar. Among those
who attended were Misses Hoffman,
Neville, Anderson, Katie and Eunice
King, Clara and Lucile Kibler and
Gladys Martin of Ocala and Mrs. II.
A. Vann, Mrs. G. W. Neville, Mrs.
W. H. Hoffman and Messrs. Will Dat
ton, Eddie Ray, Orville Barnes, C. E.
Miller, Randolph Griffith, F. C. Polk,
H. A. Vann Jr.. F. Vick and Sullers
of Brooksville and R. M. Blake of
Ocala. '
BUSINESS FOR SALE
Electrical and plumbing establish
ment. Will sell at invoice prices.
This is a good buy as there is going
to be about $40,000 worth of plumb
ing work installed in Ocala within the
next few years. H. W. Tucker, Ocala,
Fla. 19-4t
' We have a new perfume, Bouquet
Dozira, a fine lasting extract, $2 per
ounce. Gerig's. tf
WHEN YOU HAVE A COLD
Give it attention, avoid exposure, be
regular and careful of your diet, also
commence taking Dr. King's New
Disco very, it contains pine tar, an-
show that the average run of hogs tiseptic oil3 and balsams. Is slightly
laxative. Dr. King's New Discovery
'eases your cousrh soothes your throat
held for further: inspection of gov- jand bronchial fub'eSf your co!Jf
ernment vets. In the packing house, starts to clear your head. In a short
These same packers that report 17 time you know your cold is better,
hogs out of every 100 in the average standard family cou-h syrup
. . , xv in use over 40 years. Get'a bottle st
run, report that less than 3 per cent once Keep it in the house as a cc! i
of the Hampshire hogs passing thru insurance. Sold at your druggist. C
