BOOST! BOOST!! FOR A BRIDGE ACROSS THE YAQUINAi-A BRIDGE THAT WILL BENEFIT THOUSANDS
r
Wimoln
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY, OREGON, FRIDAY, : JULY 28th, 1916.
NUMBER 23
Yaquina Pioneer
Passes
Away
Newport, Oregon, Special
George King one of the early pio
neers of Yaquina Bay died at his home
in Oyster City, July 24th, 1916 of organ
ic heart disease, aged 72 years, 4
months and five days. Mr. King was
& nntlva of Yorkshire Eneland. born,
March 19, 1844. He came to America many 1,ad to Btan during the exer- Born To Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher of
In 1867, settling In Minnesota where clBe8 A large number of people came Chitwood, a fine big strapping boy, a
he worked a few months In the saw- frora sllet. Toledo, Yaquina and Wald- few days ago. It's fun to see "daddy"
mills. In September 1871 he came to Prt- Tne real drawing card was the Fletcher go strutting around and look
Portland, Oregon, where he worked Hawaiian Quintet under the direcetlon tng happy. It makes him forget about
along the coast helping to build light- of JoBePn Kekuku who Is the orglnator the high cost of living, who our next
hoURcs and In the fall of 1873 he came ot t,,e celebrated Steel method of play- president will be or that war 1b brew
to t!.o Bay locating at Oyster City, ln8 the guitar. This music Is said to Ing in Mexico. Good luck to "daddy"
where ho lived continuously up to the be ,ne be9t of lts klnd ln the world Fletcher.
time of his death, engaging In various and ,rom the applause the Hawaiian The sun am a shin" and the skies am
occupations. He owned somo valua- musicians and singers received It was blue asaln end the Chitwood rustlers
ble oysterbeds which ho worked for
40 ycara. In 1874, Mr. King was united
ln marrlaxe to Miss Rachel Cralgle, to
this union, four children were born,
Elizabeth C. Is the wife of John Han-
Ion, Byrle W. who Is In the Life Sav-
lng Crew at Newport, Nellie Violet Is
a teacher and Mary Gladys, who lives
with her parents at home. Mr. King
was County Commissioner for four
years and served for three years on
the Port Commission Board. He was '
a careful, painstaking county official
ii.- i
ana looaea wen auer me iiueresui 01
the people. He was educated In the
common schools or England ana was
therefore well qualified to fill the tot-
lous public positions that he held. He
was sucessful ln business and left his !
family well provided for. He was a
member of the Episcopal Church and
a Mason and was a member of Blue
iage wo. bt, oi jxewpon ana was ior
a long time Master Mason and one of
Uie main pillars Ol me LAjQge. MB was
. . . . i . ...
... ... . . w
a greai reaaer ana wen posiea in uie
affairs of the country and a leader tn
.11 .mia a k. Annniiv in
Z"Sr; " " "
wnicn ne uvea, ne iook greai mieresv - - ...... u uig omiu unn u mej kkco
In the awful war that Is going on ln brlna- article now.
Europe and bellved It would be better MrB Casteel has been remodel- The new road around Pioneer moun
for liberty and tha world If the Allies ta nd repairing the hotel. Many of tain Is almost ready for travel and tho
ahould win out. The funeral took place tne rooms have been made lighter, autoes can soon be speeding that way.
Wednesday at 2 o'clock. A short ser- new P"Per h freshened their appear- The road Is sure a credit to our worthy
irlce was held at the Holllngsworth ce and last but not least, It has been , "boss", Phil Elting. . ..
and Hartley Undertaking Parlors con- almost entirely reshlngled. j The Cook Shack at the camp Is de-
ducted by Rev. E. T. Simpson, Rector t
of the Episcopal Church and the ser-
Ices at the cemetery were conducted r,T ,n tlia evening loaded with their Wallls Miller was seen In this tI
by the Masonic Umge of which de- burden of deep sea fish. The catch re- clnlty the other day. "
ceased was a member.. The funeral cently has been very good. b. A. Wlldman, the strawberry wlx-
was largely attended by friends and Nw" ot George King's death reach- card has complete his strawberry
neighbors. Mr. King knew for long 80 ner Monday evening. Yaquina ex- harvest and says that he had an ex
he could not live, he set his house in lends ympathy to the bereaved fam- ceptlonally good crop this year and his
order, conversed cheerfully and freely , returns were handsome. Now there Is
with his neighbors and family during I Mr- nd Mrs- Casteel and daughter a great opportunity for some sweet
the day as he sat on the lounge, and ' Portland arrived for a visit with Mr. maiden to make the most of the Leap
when all were gone except his little Casteel's parents. Mrs. Casteel will vis- Year chances by sending him an of
grandson, Cederlck, he fell over to one , 11 ,or ew days at the Hassman fer or better call in person at River
side, the little boy trying to hold him farm- , Side Fruit Farm, near Chitwood.
up but no, without a struggle or a pain
he passed to the great beyond, "Like
one that draws his drapery about him
and lies down to pleasant dreams".
Many of his oldest and dearest friends
had passed away during the winter
Mr. and Mrs. P. M. Abbey, Ira Hamp-
ton and Jack Cohlll and he has gone
to Join them as we hope and believe,
In a far better country than this.
Hall and farewell.
Mr. King was the government ex -
pert on the propagation and cultlva -
tlon ot tho Eastern oyster sent out to
"be planted In the Yaquina Bay. HI.
experiment proved sucessful and he
developed the Industry and thousands
of dollars will be made from it. He
was engineer while putting In the Jet
ties at the mouth ot the Bay. He
helped to build the 'lighthouse atCape
Foulweather and he hold many Im
portant positions durtng his long res
idence on tha Bay. He was of the old
school, his word was as good as a bond.
Ills honor waa beyond question. .The!
lonowing loieao Mason, ana ineir
wives were at the funeral: Mr. and Mrs
Ira Wade, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Howell,
Mr. and Mrs. wajter nail, Mr. ana
Mrs. James. Oalther, Mr. and Mrs. C.
E. Hawkins: Mr. and Mrs. Oeorge Mc -
Cluskey, R..P. Gobi, Bob Mann, Ted
McElwain, U. 8. Van Cleve ana some
other, whose name. I did. not get ,
Bort Oeer, F. N. Hayden and J. F.
Btewart Elk. Clty-Che.tef Dixon;',
BeaVer Creek A. W. Webber and
John Bowers; Lut'jens CepC Henry
Nice. Seldom if ever has such a large
profession passed through tha city of
Newport. It attested the esteem In
which Oeorge King wa. held by the
people. .....i . j ;v ,
Uy and will remain here all summer
and . will make fishing and pleasure
excursions over the bar twice dally,
leaving the wharf at A. M. and I P.
M..' She Is buIR after the model ot
the Ills 8 but a much nicer boat She
was built at Astoria about ten month!
ago and is well equlped with Ashing
lackl and life beiu, will carry 17S
passengers and has a Standard engine
with 40 horsepower. She will also
make moonlight excursions on the bay.
This will be a great convenience to the
public who want to take these delight-
ful excursions 'over the bar deep sea
'flshing. The boat Is perfect and the
captain Is an experienced seaman.
Thn rhfllltAllnun nrncrnm plnneH Vrl.
;day evening.. The big tent was crowd-
ed every seat was taken and a great
appreciated at Newport. Every num-
ber on the program was good and the
people of Newport have a month to de-
r'do whether the Chautauqua will be.
brought back next season or not.
The Relief Captain Miner came up
,rom Sluselaw Monday with his fam-
VaOIIINa
Quite a crowd from Yaquina attend-
ed the dance at the Cannery last Sat-
tirrinv vin tntr A mAat on InvnVtlo ft mo
" 7 "
was reported by all. The eats were
" -
ceneni. several, new dances were
demonstrated during the evening.
Mrs- J- E- Jacobson, wife of the sU-
tlon agent, and little daughter, Evelyn
HazoL arrived In Yaquina one day
,a9t week. They will make their home
Swimming seems to be the leading
n wapgmn ir in. vminerA a . . ki.
' v- uun6c, d ui mis
tnwn. Mnat Anv Hav wAo,hA mammU.
ycitum-
WK-one can see the flash of bright-
colored cans creatine tha waves aa the
h..h .h .
Interested spectators greet the boats, '
.Orabelle and Pilgrim when they ar-
I Many tneories, love-sickness, sea-1
"'ckness, presence of mermaids and
harks. etc. are advanced tn answer
t0 tna question Why did Enoch OlBon
,n broad daX 11Kh- Sunday, run the
wenamosna on tne sand between buoys
,lu "" Anxious onloolters extend
ote of thanks to the crew of the Or-
abelle who rescued him.
I Mr- Klock, wife of the brakeman
on the C. &
E., and son, Ronald, of
' ruana, are staying at tne notel.
.They will probably make their home
.nre. ,
ONA
Quite a number of the people of this
vicinity attended the picnic on Upper
Beaver, Sunday and all enjoyed a very
pleasant day.
., Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Commons and
Mrs. Faye Wolfersperger and son, Al-
lan, were at Yaquina - Sunday.
: Mr. and Mrs. Olllhouse and daugh-
uij ui jwjuu, urn ymuing
the former's mother, Mrs. C. M. Myers
of this place.
a. w. ana w. u. weoer were bi wew-
.Port Wednesday. ,
1 ' H. J. Wood ha. been laid up the
Pt few days with a soreurm which
ne injurea wane worr.mg in me lira-
ber,
UL Park, and son, Alton, were at
Poole Slough Friday., .
Lloyd Common, and . Mr.. Faye
day having tome dental work done.
; GLEN
The Walk Ins man 1. back again.
Did your hay get wet? I. the sen-
eral question of this neighborhood. iture? He I. very prosperous and un
.. Mrs. W. R. Moore Is seriously ilL derstandi tha auto business very well.
J. W. Davenport went to Toledo, Bat -
urday.
Alva Moore went to Elk City last
Tuesday.
Mr. J. W. Davenport Is able to be
around again after a two weeks sick-
ness.
Mrs. J. E. Crooks and Mrs. J. W.
Davenport called on Mrs. W. R. Moore
one day last week,
Alva Moore went to Toledo Wednes-
day.
0
CHITWOOD
are again trying to make nay wnne
the sun shines.
Lost Friday a large swp.rm of bees,
evidently wild ones, (lew from the
preat unknown and lit ln one of Kurt-
lchanov's bee hives that stood waiting
for such homeless bugs, and were po-
lltely ushered In by Prof. J. C.
Mrs. Cora Weaver and son, Floyd,
from Buttermilk camp visited with
Mrs. R. R. Wlson Sunday and Mon
day tney caned on Mrs. Kurucnanov. I
. ... La. ,1,. nnhinr I
i1nK mat of h a hnma rf Phnrltn 01ann I
I VT . .j
The Club consisted of Harald Hansen,
" " -
Kurtlchanov, all wbo are young and
good looking. T
T. Kurtlchanov sold some oat hay to
the teamsters at Buttermilk camp,
G. L. Landess and Son are building
them a brand new house; the perfect-
uuu muuiuu hhwcis iu mo uauia
of M. L. Brown also of Portland.
tt j . i. . . i. . .
vve mru bu w near iuh .warBuitu
p .1 1 1 i. . 1..1 I
duiiuh huh; wlhuiiwuoi
moving to Monmouth ln the near fu-1
.. hut nn m.Mor .n tn
.o..u
.erted now so the poor baches will
have to shift for themselves now.
0
SALADO
v
i Haying is still going on here but the
beautiful fog keeps us scared of rain.
. Mr. and Mrs. Mort Hodges departed
for the logging camps at Mill City
'Monday morning.
i j. i Fisher is haullnc hav for r k
Brown.
We note that smartv nf niorM v
Kot very much peayed at the article'
from nere concernn, tne n-er Creek
celebration. Now everybody from Elk
ni a ti..i. i ... .,
v.fc w Ionian muwo Binurty or me
I Oregon Bat that acts as he is known
by the young folks. Now If he will
have hi. mother read carefully that ar
ticle he will see that I very plainly
stated that the article was handed to
me a. the reporter from here and If
any one wishes to call this party down
I will furnish their name for same as
I don't want to criticize anyone till
tney deserV9 ,t i0 dont tart .Qme
thing you can't stop.
I
CHITWOOD
Everyone t. busy now days making
nay wn(e the $un ghneg
j Mrii J pepn returned from Cor.
'vallls this week where she ha. been
taking treatments '
, a Kurtl(.h ' . ...
,(n. ....
Prof. R. E. Wood of Orton passed
thru Chitwood Tuesday.
Chas. Olson and John Kurtlchanov
have been helping Ezra Stelnmets with
hi. haying the last few days.
Mr. Floyd Pepin of the city of Chit-
, nwvu im Miami ui vuying mm a iweive
cylinder Packard auto in the near fu.
. He may build a garage on main street
Mr. Ernest Cook Wa. at Corvallls a
few days ago getting ready to bring in
hi new aato.
Mia Lily Miller of Pioneer visited
with Mrs. Ezra Steinraetz last Tuesday.
A mistake was1 made ln the an
nouncement that a boy was born to
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher of Chitwood.
There was no boy at all; It was only
a girl.
Mrs. Pollen and Mrs. Stella i
from Buttermilk camp called on Mrs.
Kurtlchanov last Sunday.
Darwin Watts and Paul Washington
both of Slletz are working on the road.
Bill EltlnK Is In a critical condition,
as he is Buffering from the "shivers",
what ever it Is it Is navlng a terrible
effect on) him.
ORTON
E. M.'Fraizer, W. C. Orton and Hen
ry Cerlna were over to Toledo on busi
ness the IStli.
Arthur Bell Is now working for E.
T. Raddunt driving one of the teams.
Bull Summers has quit the rond and
is now clearing hind for O. W. Cox and
P. H. Elting.
A dance was giver, ?n the new build
ing of school dint. 09, on the 18th, 52
people attended.
Homer Evans and fumlly came over
on the 16th, from the road camp to
attend to some school business on Mon-
. ... , , ... .
day the 17lh' "turning Wednesday.
I L. Callahan and Ruth Evans were
visitors at the road camp the 18th and
....
M. h w-rner nf till, nina ,v,
j has been touring the Middle West, Is
j now the guest of John Scullln of Phil
adelphia, the brother of Miss Cecilia
I Scullln and Mrs. E. M. Fralzer of Or
t ton.
j John Albert took a load of chlttem
b k . . . ,,h
lof ' l T' "V"' h'" '
A. P. Johnson, who Is working In
Corrallls made a tn flrfnn
ZZfTlI ..
1 . lJ",ler "augn oi loieao was O'
in.
i over on
, business during the week.
Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Fralzer gave a
farewell dinner In honor of Mr. and
Mrs. Depoe on the 20th. Those pres
ent were, Mr. W. C. Orton and family,
Mrs. John Albert, Mrs. Ida Wilson and
family and Miss Cecilia Scullln. All
reported a good time. The Depoe
'trl"s ouarte"e save some good se-
lections.
John Albert took over to Nortons,
Harry Robert of the firm ot Robert
Bros., of Portland, and Jack Hudelllson
who were on a fishing trip.
. . Frank Ward and Ben Stewart return
ed from Portland last Thursday.
Rev. Scudder of Slletz was here
Sunday andgave a sermon.
Alfred Lane was up with his auto
mobile last Friday.
Currey and Clark were up from To
ledo the 25th.
Mr. and Mrs. Ned Evans were In
Slletz the 22d on business.
E. T. Raddant had four teams haul
ing hay bringing In about 40 acres of
Kond hfty nd "till has about 30 acres
to be cut
WEST YAQUINA
Mr. McPharlen of Beaver Creek ar
rived Thursday on the noon train from
Portland where he has spent the pant
week visiting his family. He was ac
companied home by his son.
Mrs. D. C. Miller and children were
Newport visitors Friday.
Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Commons and
daughter, Mrs. Fae Wolfersperger, and
baby of Ona were guests at the R. A.
Miller home Sunday.
John Coovert was tn from Beaver
Creek Thursday.
Claud Meyers of Beaver Creek was
an outbound passenger the first of the
week.
.. The Misses Stella and Olive Willis
returned Wednesday from the Wright
ranch where they had been staying for
some time.
CARD OF THANKS
We the undersign.' desire herewith
to extend our since est thanks to the
many friends and neighbors who so
kindly and generously assisted us dur
ing the last Illness and death of our
beloved husband and father, and also
for their beautiful floral contributions.
Mr. Rachel King,
Elizabeth C. Hanlofl,
Burl W. King,
Nellie Violet, and
Mary Qlady. King.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Services will be held at Mrs.
A. C, Clark's residence on Fourth
street Sunday morning at 11
o'clock. Subject lesson sermon,
"Love". All arc Invited.
REBECCAS INSTALL
OFFICERS
The 18th of July, the Rebeccas of
Do Good Rebecca Lodge No. 70, In-
stalled their officers for the ensuing
term: Elma Waugh, N. O.. Llla Mil
ler, V. G.; Ida Derrick, Soc.j Anna
Ball, Treas. Installation ceremonies
were conducted by Mrs. Howell (In
stalling omcer.) ,
The hall and dining room were beau-,
ttfully and appropriately decorated. ;
During the banquet, which was fine;
one heard from all Ulos of the table,
"My that my capacity were greater".
I Bingo and other favorite games were
reasurected and enjoyea uy an. i sninll and the children escaping un
the time of departure thoro was but ,urt.
one thought expressed I hope to be ; The oar wl,rh w s ft ncw Hu(lson
able to come next time., super six of the sedan type was pretty
One That Was There- 1)adly damped. The glnrs top being
0 1 orokp'i off, the fenders bent and twist-
CHURCH NOTES
A erntlfvlne Interest In Church mot
ters Is being manifested. Two large
congregations greeted the pastor last
Sunday. The Sunday School attend
ance showed an lncrcnse over the pre
vious Sunday of nearly 70 per rent.
We want every boy and every girl,
every man and every woman who are
not affiliated with any other Sunday Association, after a lot of hard work on
School In the town to come and Join i tl,e part of tlle Promoters, Is a sub
our School. We will see that you are ,8tantlal and paying Institution. And
put In a suitable class. "ow u,al 11 18 we" on "a reel a can-
The Laldles Aid had a very Inter-i nery ,s be,nB talked a "nr ot
esting as well as profitable meeting "ur PrBre88lv farmers up the river.
In the Church parlors, Tuesday after- Mr Cna8' Serson has had some ex
noon of this week. A large attendance ",erlenca n localities where canneries
was present. They will have some- were established and knows them to be
thing of Importance to announce In ,B BOod tl,lnB for the farmRr lf Properly
the near future. managed. At present there Is no mar-
Sermon Topics for next Sunday are: i ket a" for tne many vegetables and
Morning: "Service". Evening: "Some Bnla111 trMa w,llcn row to Perfection
reasons why a Christian should be the l" thlf sect,on' Peaa- bean8- "bbage.
the happiest person living". The pas- qua8h,, and PmpMn. can be canned
tor will read an original poem at the to advantai-e and no where on earth
evening service. can ll,ey be grown morfi eal,II'r or ot
Choir practice Friday at 7:45 P. M. flne1f1 ua,,ty- Tne "W lndu"try la
In the absence of C. H. Moore. Miss mak'n" reat stride. In the Willamette
Waugh ha. kindly consented to direct ya,.ley; tl,e Salem and EuBena Juca
the choir. factories putting up thousands of gal-
Ions of this delicious and her.lthful bev
0 erage each day, and they cannot begin.
THE FIRST PAPER AN EX
CLUSIVE HISTORICAL ITEM
When Adam's Eve began to do the
housekeeping for Adam, she had no
care, such as pursue the modern Ad-
am's madam. She did not know what
was the rage, because there was no 811 means take up the matter ot a can
Woman's Page. . nery and see that It is put through.
She did not get a Daily Hint from Arrangements are being made to hav
Pari, full of passion to start her on J- O. Holt of the Eugene cannery coma
a dally sprint to keep up with the fash- here and lay the matter before the
Ion. She did not haunt the beauty farmers.
stores ln order to keep open pores. j 0
When Adam capered home at night TOLEDO 4 SILET7 1
(he was no wearied plodder!) he did . . '
not shiver lest he might be served ' ,''e ba" gam8 beteen Slletz and
with curious fodder. There were no e.d' played "," latter', ground,
papers, so you see here was no House- 52km, U'8 dC'eat ' the
hold Recipe. w. . '
Old Adam was a happy bloke and , , iMr ,ormer confidence,
lived a life most cheery. He did not ""dlan "pped to the plate-only
know that he would choke some day " " tbe 'r ior " an easy
with his bacteria. Adam and Eve had "round-r to the Infield. McMillan held
never read Health Articles to scare
them dead.
Eve never went through Adam's
breeks when he was sweetly dreaming.
because tVere were no Bargain Weeks
to tempt her to .uch scheming. The
serpent thought she was a goose. She
was too good for any use.
The serpent was a clover brute.
Though he'd not been thrown college.
his sanctum made him mighty cute. It
was the Tree of Knowledge. "Aha!"
he said. "I'll publish free. The Dally
Eden Apple Tree!"
The first edition raised a row whose
scandal shocked creation. Since that
first Issue Adam's brow Is wet with per
spiration. It told the scandal, rich and
rare, that Eve had not a thing to wear!
From The Morgonthalor Lines O'
Type News.
0
G. E. Frevert recently of Salt Lake
City, wa. In the city last Saturday in
specting the local Creamery. Mr. Fre
vert will have charge of the butter ex
change which will be established at
Portland, August lGtli and will handle
the output of the local creamery. Mr.
Frevert was well pleased with theTo
ledo plant On and after August 15th
the product of the local plant will be
branded "Oregold", Instead of "Ye-
qulna Pride" as at present. j ,0ngs, by a double qnnrtette.
A fare of one and one third for the ' "arce The Cab-" d the Lady
round trip to Marshfleld has been wl"be, tor lh ba"a"t of tho
made by the Southern Pacific Comp- pub,lc Llbrary ot ToIad
any for the celebration to be held in 0
that city on the 24 ajid 25 of August
to celebrate the completion of the rail- F0R "ALE Piling any size, either
road. Business Men's special will be tumpage or cut. Second growth Fir
run from Portland, Salem, Eugene and and Alder L. . Ramun,
I San Francisco.
Auto Accident
On Pioneer Mt.
The auto driven by C. E. Small nf
Corvallls went over the grade on the
east side of Pioneer mountain Wednes
day night about eight o'clock. In the
car were Mr. and Mrs. Small and two
little children and Mr. R. C. Llewelley
all of Corvallls. The nuto turned over
tliree tlmeBi rollnff down tha te(p em
bankmont for a dlstnnce of about sev.
enty five feet and landing right side up.
Mr, Slpall rec0vcd njures to i,8 back
and Mr. Llewelley sustained a dislo-
rnted Rt,0ulder and other injuries, Mrs.
jeu ami one rront wheel broken. The
j car had only been run about a month.
I The cur was brought Inln tnn h
A1Kl'r Cooper and Is now at the Currey
UttrBe
WHY NOT A CO-
OPERATIVE CANNERY
The Toledo Co-Operntlve Creamery
to supply, the demand. Loganberries,
of which this popular beverage is
made, grow to profusion In Lincoln
county. Blackberries grow everywhere
on the hillside, and bottom., here,
without even having cultivation,
We believe the Oranges should by
--"' nana an mrougn the
"J"?' ,a,lWlnB nly four "
"ePd' t,,e PP"n flluger. permitted
h'.tw1 boy" dun)P 1,18 ba "
over 11,9 'ot- Corson at S3 end Ros.
,BeCnd,' e.r8 t,,e itellar 'action,
the Toledo team, .-ols made a mar-
ve us oneand stop and prevented
S le,U 'rom ,rln " the Cth Inning,
?M """V? MM t0 r
"ring two me 2nd . flrst
, f1 "aw,t,,e a,,,e glPP,nK "d
a nl"th 'nnln Archie Un
f I'u, "l"1"! l ,0ft Center' fo'-
'owed by h ' bt" Al. and Pet.
ra"7' but t,1By a dlcd t the bag.
Slletz
A. Coodell
Casey
A. Washington
Brown
Archie Lane
Watts
P. Washington
Al Lane
Reod
Toledo
cf Oalther Wlshart
3 Wlshart Carson
r Dickson
1 Center
2 Ros
I Lutey
as Anderson
o Oalther Carson
P McMillan
NOTICE
The Toledo Dramatic Club will give
a Vaudeville, at the Dime on Thurs
day evening. Aug. I. 191. conslatlnv
0f two reel, and come of the latest
Vanuin.
k
