The Glasgow Courier
VOLUME XIII
GLASGOW, VALLEY COUNTY, MONTANA, JULY 28, 1916.
NUMBER 13
DEVELOP»^" OF
MILK RIVER VALLEY
Rev. L. J. Christler Reminiscent Upon Changes During
Past Ten Years.
GLASGOW REC OGNIZED AS REAL CITY
Manner in Which City Has Forged to the Front During Past Few
Years Wins Substantial Recognition for it Through
out the Entire State.
Reminiscing on the Glasgow and
Milk River Country of ten. years ago,
Mr. Christler said: "Why bless your
soul the farmers out here on the
Fort Peck Indian Reservation have
so many big fields of heavy grain
enclosed with barbed wire fences
that you can't drive your own cow
home, and the fields are now so laden
with crops of corn, potatoes, and
vegetation of all sorts that the 'old
timer' loses himself most anywhere
within the confines of his old camp
ing ground or 'lodge-fire.' "
In reply to an inquiry about con
ditions in general in the Milk River
Valley Country, and its adjacent ter
ritory, he continued, "Now that the
settler can take a half section in
stead of a quarter on the reservation,
the center of interest among the
many new people who come from
North Dakota and even Minnesota by
car seeking a location on the Fort
Peck Land. The old way of locating
with the assistance of a 'locator' is
now largely a thing of the past in
the most of this country a« only the
farmer from other states now seeks
Montana's fertile lands and he is in
position to own a car and by the
'car route' he drives over the country,
takes his time, picks out his claim and
quietly makes his filing. It is a mat
ter of record that one half of the
new farmers who are at this time
locating in Northern Montana and
th® Milk River Country are men of
this sturdy, prosperous type." Speak
ing of the Milk River Irrigation Pro
ject and of the farm lands in the
Valley: "When I came down the
Valley ten years ago on my first trip
there were a goodly number of
'Doubting Thomases'. Plans were in
complete and the appropriations bills
of Congress were moving slowly, na
turally there was much iim
patience. But it took big visioned,
optimistic fellows like Dan McKay
and the late H. H. Nelson to dispell
the gloom and stir the lethargy of
the doubting ones. They soon had
everybody getting ready for the sup
ply of water. I recall one occasion
upon which every town on the Milk
River, and 'everybody who knew ev
erything from Abraham Lincoln to
Three Counties to Hold
Big Summer School Here
The summer school for Phillips,
Sheridan and Valley counties to be
held ' in Glasgow, will open at the
high school building next Monday,
July 31st, and will continue until the
August examination for teachers, the
24th and 25th.
D. S. Williams, Superintendent of
the Glasgow schools will be prinçip
of the summer school, and conduct
classes in civics, United States His
tory, physiology, in connection with
which will be given a course in Play
ground work, and school management.
The work in arithmetic, algebra and
physical geography will be given by
J. H. Atwood, principal of the Saco
schools. F. H. Livingston, principal
of the Medicine Lake schools, will
give courses in spelling, grammar,
geography, and theory and practice
of teaching. Miss.Jàhanna C. Lind,
as instructor in the Glasgow high
school, will take charge of the work
in reading and literature. Miss Effie
McGregor of Minneapolis will give
primary methods. This course will
include work for the first three grades,
and model classes in these grades will
this way the theories of primary
be conducted, putting into practice in
work. Professor S. Lincoln Smith
of the Department of Art and Design,
Saturday, July 29, Is the Last Day You Can Register—Do. It N oik
Fort Benton' were represented at a
)ig meeting in Havre for the purpose
of passing judgment upon the Recla
mation Service because its 'mills did
grind so slowly,' when Dan McKay
softened the keen edges of the nails
in the hands of the angry ones who
were there to nail the heads of the
Reclamation Department to the cross,
by making the clearest, most spark
ling running water speech ever heard,
closing with this very clever climax,
'Oh ye impatient souls of the Valley
—shame on ye. Will you crucify
your country's benefactors upon the
cross of impatience? Think men—
yes, think of the many moons and the
many snows it took the sun-crowned
Egyptian to dig the greatest irri
ation ditch of the world—the river
Nile—and with a crooked stick too.
Go you impatient, maddened fellows,
and learn the lesson .of patience from
!iim!' That speech saved the Milk
River Country. Water has been flow
ing since. Look at it ten years later,
that is now. Thousands of acres are
now under the completed, ditch. From
south of the river at Dolson to Alkali
Creek and north of the river from the
Dam to Wagner, 13,000 acres. From
the Dam to Strater on the south side,
and from Strater on the north side
to a distance long past Malta to the
northeast, then to Vandalia Dam, and
beyond Glasgow on the south side
of the river are more than 80,000
acres more. Upon the completion of
new canals it is not probable that
the entire area of the grain growing
Valley will be irrigated by the Milk
Iliver project. - The aid from this
project and the uncommonly favorable
weather conditions this year are
rowing crops of grain and corn that
are indescribable in their verdue and
figures. Everything is raised from
a- water mellon to a alfalfa field from
a small fry to a monarch steer. Very
different from the seemingly swepted
and garnished plains—country of ten
years ago, or when the "laws of the
Lissouri and Milk River Countrj
were different from white man's law."
In speaking of the City of Glas
gow, Mr. Christler declared that it
reminded him of a prophecy some «ne
ha'd made respecting the Western
State Normal and Industrial School
of Aberdeen, South Dakota, will give
instruction in writing and art during
the second week, after which Mrs. E.
J. Kjellman will continue the work,
Miss Nora Ebersole, of the Glasgow
schools will give a course in indus
trial work, teaching the use of reeds,
raffia, and yarn.
In addition to the regular instruct
ors, such educators as Chancellor El
liot of the Montana University, H. A.
Davee, State Superintendent of Public
Instruction, and others will address
the teachers.
It is hoped that the teachers will
take advantage of the summer school,
the training received, we believe, will
do much toward making the rural
schools, especially, more efficient fact
ors in the different communities.
WILL APPEAR IN THE MOVIES
Jas. Aichele, formally of Glasgow
but now located at Malta has become
associated with the Great Northern
Film Company of tha/ city and it is
{reported that within a few months
his friends will have an opportunity of
seeing his manly figure and handsome
face upon the screen. James has all
the requirements of a successful mov
ie star and should succeed.
City. "She grows and glows like
the heart of an Ophal." Comparing
the city with Havre, his home -town.
Mr. Christler said, "I thought the
Gas City was growing as fast as the
law that safely reckons the red-blood
ed sturdy growth of a big boy al
lows, but Glasgow since my last visit
here a few months ago seems to have
been running neck and neck with
Havre. The new stores, homes, ex
tensions are growing like magic in
the night. The Rundle Building is a
monument to the marvelous energy
of the promoter. That three hun
dred barrel flour mill matches up to
our Gas City Mill except you need
here the natural gas to operate it.
I expect, however, with the men of
the calibre you ha*e here, and that's
the sort of stuff which builds cities,
you will have started for and found
the natural gas, by another visit.
Speaking of the 'calibre of men'. It is
ratifying to note in traveling over
the country as I do, the way those on
MIDNIGHT FIRE
DESTROYS HOUSE
Residence on South Front
Burned Sunday.
St.
CAUSE OF FIRE UNKNOWN
Tenants Moved From House Satur
day. Loss Estimated Close to
Twelve Hundred Dollars.
Fire from an unknown origin part
ially destroyed a dwelling on First
Ave. south and Eighth street Sunday
morning at about 2 :00 o'clock. The
house was owned by Wm Boyles, was
a story and half high. The damage
amounted to about $1200.00, which
was partly covered by insurance.
Saturday the family of AI Murdick
mov , ed ou f and the P la , ce w , as un( * cu "
,pied at the time of the blaze. Sam
Groosman, driver of hose truck num
ber one arrived upon the scene of the
fire almost before the first sound of
the fire whistle had become stilled,
here Fire Chief Dug Hall waited him
and the water was soon being poured
into the burning building.
Members of the Glasgow Volunteer
Fire DejJt. were quickly destributed
about the building by Chief Hall and
in a short time the fire was under con
troll. After about an hour of fast
work by the department the building
was saved but the entire interior was
badly damaged
HINSDALE GIRL
PIES AT FALLS
Popular Young Lady Dies Suddenly
After Short Illness.
Word was received in Glasgow on
Monday morning of the death at Great
Falls, of Miss Mollie Monrad, aged '20,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Mon
rad of Hinsdale, after a short illness.
Death was due to a severe attack of
Typhoid-pnuemonia and the young j
lady had been confined in the Colum- j
bus hospital for about two weeks, j
Miss Monrad was attending the Great!
Falls business College at the time she j
was taken ill.
_ The news of the death of this
young lady will come as a great
shock to her many friends in Glasgow
where she was very popular amoung
the younger people. She formally
filled a position in the*office of County
Clerk and Recorder Shoemaker and
during the time of her residence here
made many friends, who will mourn
her early death.
The funeral services were held at
Great Falls where the interment took
place at Calvary cemetary. Mass was
celebrated by Rev. Fr : Dineen.
MASONS AT HINSDALE
A large delegation of Masons from
Glasgow attended a meeting of the
Hinsdale Lodge on last Saturday even
ing. The party consisted of several
automobile loads who left here early
in the evening returning late that
night. The occasion of the visit was
the confering of the Master Mason
degree upon Jas. Stevens, the well
know n stockman of Buggy Creek.
A lunch was served after the rit
ualistic work was finished and follow
ed by an hour of sociability.
Found—Pocket-book, owner can se
cure same by calling at the Courier
office and proving ownership. 13t2
the outside measure up the poisj and
force of i community. It is done
invariably through the status of the
Business Men's Association or Com
mercial Club. Whereever the city is
found with a live club and a set of
live-wires at the head of it or in it,
that is the city best and most favor
orably known and unceasingly quoted.
Both Havre and Glasgow have been
particularly fortunate in this respect.
No two cities have prossessed the
able, ever on the job, wide awake
(secretaries, as Secretary McCroskey
of the Gas City Chamber of Com
merce and Secretary S. C. Moore of
the Glasgow Commercial Club, Both
men are great assets to this country.
Both cities have really been nailed
o the topmost of the ship of pro
gress in our Great Milk River Coun
try. Little wonder we are so re
markably different in every way from
the days of ten years ago, or when
"Diamond Cut Diamond."
FREIGHT HOUSE
NOW UNDER WAY
Contractor Here and Will Begin
Construction Monday.
CHANGE PASSENGER DEPOT
Great Northern Will Expend About
$50,000.00 in Next Two Months
in Local Yards and Depot.
Actua' construction work upon the
new freight house of the Great North
ern railway will Login Monday morn
ing when a crew of carpenters and
laborers will start in, under the direc
tion of A. J. Waller, foreman for A
Gutherie & Co., of St. Paul, who have
the contract. Excavation work will
be finished, the foundation will be
started, and the superstructure will
be carried forward as fast as a a very
large crew can erect the structure.
Glasgow has been in need of this
additional freight house for a long
time and when the order was issued
tVt-s spring to the construction de
partment to put it up the business
men here were jubilant. The Glas
gow Commercial Club put in nearly
two years in an effort to show the
officials of the railroad the necessity
of the additional facilities needed here
to handle the unusually large freight
business at this point and the result
is now being realized.
The building will be 50x150 feet with
a large platform on the north side
next to the new industrial track ex
tending 50 feet east and west of the
building proper. This will make the
loading and unloading of freight pos
sible in the shortest time without any
$50,000.00 and will require about two
or sent out can be handled with l°ss
expense both to the shipper and the
ia I road. On the south side will be
large doors for the receiving an<! de
livering of freight to wagons mak
ed
'"g it possible for e:ght teams to
j working at the same time.
j The new industrial track to the
j freight depot is now finished and will
extend a distance of 800 feet along
j the south side of the right of way
adjacent to the west end of South
Front Street and will furnish a con
siderable space for the erection of
elevators and other industries. This
will furnish the desired location for
the new elevator which is planned to
be erected in Glasgow this summer.
In addition to the new freight
house and industrial track, the Great
Northern will also remodel the pas
senger depot and when this work is
finished Glasgow will enjoy all the
modern convenience of a thoroughly
up to date station. The plans call
for an entire change of the arrange- j
ment of the interior, a new ladies!
waiting room, general waiting room,
toilets, and the agent's office will
so arranged as to make the handling j
of passenger business much more con
venient. The floor will be of tile, the
walls will be renewed and the station
platform will be replaced with brick.
All the old unsightly features of the
present depot will be removed and the
station will be equal to that of those
at Great Fails and other large cities.
All -»f this new work as well as the
reconstruction of the passenger rlepct
will mean an expenditure by the Great
Northern railway company of nearly
$50,000.00 and will rejuire about two
months to complete. This increase
in the investment in equipment at
GLASGOW POSTOFFICE
GAINS IN BUSINESS
Receipts for Year Ending June 30th Shows Substantial
Increase Over 1915.
NEARLY DOUBLE DURING FIVE YEARS
Service at Local Post Office Improved Under Administration of
Postmaster P. L. Herring. Carrier Service Meets
Popular Favor of Patrons.
Business at the Glasgow post office
for the fiscal year ending June 30th,
1916, amounted to $14,477.78 and
shows a very good increase over that,
dene in the preceding year. The
quarterly statements show larger re
eipts in all but that ending in Sep
tember 1915, and this can be account
ed for l y the large amount of mail
matter sent out during the same quar
ter in 1914 relative to campaign is
A remarkable instinct of the
increasing business of th» Glasgow
post rflice is the showing made in the
quarter ending June 30th, 191G, which
shows nearly as large an amoun*-, as
was taken in the quarter ending De
cember 31st, 1915, which includes the
heavy Christmas rush. The quar
terly totals for the year just ended
are for that ending September 30th,
1915, $3,290.09; December 31st, 1915,
$4,076.57; March 31st, 1916, $3,277.39,
and June 30th, 1916, $3833.73.
The increase over the receipts for
the year 1915, amount to $989.38 as
the total for that year was $13,488.40.
During the past five years the re
ceipts of tliis office have almost doubl
ed and show in a remarkable manner
the wonderful growth of this section
of the state. • The following table
shows the receipts for the fiscal year
ince 1911.
Annual
Year Receipts
1912 $ 8,359.56
1913 10,809.94
1914 14,299.00
1915 13,488.40
1916 .... 14,477.78
Five years ago the local *p° s ^ office
was serving only two offices in the
Glasgow shows that the city is re
cognized as the most important in
Northeastern Montana by the Great
Northern, and in a measure it is a
tribute to the hustle and busihess ac
tivity of the men of the city, and a
recognition of the great future de
velopment to come.
SONG RECITAL
.. Miss Marie McCormick the versi
tile and artistic vocalist of Minneapo
lis will appear at the Baptist church
next Thursday evening in a song re
cital. She has appeared in Glasgow
Burned Bridge Delayed
Great Northern Trains
»""i* '»i*.
•-MJ
' nto s 'ding at
All Great Northern trains on this
division were delayed form eight to 15
hours last Saturday and Sunday as a
result of a bridge two miles west of
Tampico being partially destroyed by
fire. The cause of the fire could not
be learned but when it was discovered
it had burned out five bents of the
bridge and left the rails hanging in
the air. The local due in Glasgow at
7:00 o'clock P. M. was held at Hins
dale and the fast mail Number 28
was held at Vandalia while the Gla
cier Park Limited Number 3 was set
Glasgow while the
bridge was being rebuilt.
Fortunately the work train and
be'crew that is installing the new con
crete bridges over the entire road was
at work just west of Glasgow and !
within a few minutes after the word
was received here at half past six in I
the evening, of the bridge being out '
they were rushed to the scene in rapid i
time. Within an'hour there were sev-!
eral hundred men at work and the pile j
driver was busy setting new supports j
for the timbers, the work being kept|°f
up all night without a stop and at a
little before six Sunday morning the
bridge was in repair to the extent of
permitting light trains to pass over
it. A few hours later the fast mail and
through trains were ordered out.
then Valley County, one at Lismaa
and the other at Opheim while at the
present time there are 17 post offices
in the county that now receive their
mail from the Glasgow office. In
spite of the great increase of offices
in the territory formally cared for
through the local office, the mail has
constantly increased in volume. The
work of the office was handled by the
postmaster and assistant with one
while at the present time the force
consists of the postmaster, assistant
postmaster and three clerks, besides
two carriers. With this addition to
the force at the postoffice it is al
clerk five years ago, with perfect ease
most impossible to do the work and
keep it up to date and Postmaster
P. L. Herring and his Assistant Em
ery Pease often work until late at
night cleaning up the late mails.
Something that many people who
are getting their mail regularly do not
realize is that the work of the office
is all brought up and closed each day.
Nothing is left over for the next day's
work and this is work that is not
required by the department but is
done as an accommodation to the pat
rons of the office. One of the most
notieable features of the local post of
fice is the big improvement in the
service rendered to the patrons since
Mr. Herring became postmaster.
The rapid growth of the business
of this office indicates the progress of
Glasgow from a small western vil
lage of five years ago to that of the
most lively and busy city in north
eastern Montana.
before and her sweet and charming
voice has won for her many admirers.
Miss McCormick will be remembered
especially for her kindness in singing
at the farewell reception given the
boys of Company "G" on the night of
their departure for Fort Harrison.
The opportunity to again hear her in
song w\ll mean that everyone in
Glasgow will welcome with pleasure.
Rev. W. W. Van Orsdale will preach
at the Soyth Bench school house at
3:00 o'clock in the afternoon next
Sunday.
The discovery of the burned bridge
before any of the big trains were due
at that point was without doubt the
means of saving many lives as the
road at that particular point is part
of the very best of the entire line of
the Great Northern. Had they come
upon it in the night while traveling
at full speed it is doubtfull whether
they could be stopped in time to pre
vent a disastrous wreck, which would
probobly resulted in the loss of many
lives.
Last year the Great Northern began
the work of installing concrete bridges
over the entire line to eliminate the
possibility of wrecks as a result of
burned bridges. They have the work
completed to within a few miles of the
pl ace where the bridge was burned
on Saturday night, and would have
torn out the wooden one within a
week. As a result of the fire ^ they
were compelled to suffer the addition
a l ex P ense ot " building a new bridge
|here which will be torn out before
many days to be replaced with one
concrete.
When the new bridges are installed
on the entire line the risk of fires will
have been entirely removed and there
will be additional protection to the
traveling public in that these bridges
are practically indestructable.
