Sic
mm
VOLUME 62 Number 26
PAW PAW, MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916
Who! Number 4230
LEG BROKEN IN
AUTO ACCIDENT
In attempt to Drive Dog
from path of auto, John
Dorsey suffers broken
leg.
There was an unfortunate automobile
accident east of Paw Paw on the Terri
torial road Wednesday evening, as a re
sult of whish John Dorsey suffers a
broken leg. The circumstances of the
accident as stated to the writer are as
follows:
James Hale was standing with a loaded
wagon in front of the Dorsey residence
on the south side of the road. John
Dorsey stood at the front wheel of the
wagon talking to Mr. Bale. Dorsey's
dog lay on the north side of the road
opposite Mr. Dorsey. Ctrl Wolfs was
driving east with his auto. He sounded
toe horn and Mr. Dorsey started across
the road to scare the dog from the path
of the machine. In his efforts to save
his dog he kept coming towards the car
and was struck, probably by the rear
wheel, breaking both bones of the leg
below the knee. It was a most unfor
tunate accident and will cause Mr. Dor
sey intense suffering for weeks, Mr.
Wolfs regrets the affair, but feels that
under the circumstances it could not
have been avoided.
WELCOME TIDINGS
FROM SUNNY SOUTH
DOCTOR EATON TAKES
BRIDE AT LAWRENCE
Miss Opal Knipry of Laurence became
the bride of Dr. Orrin A. ftnton of Paw
Paw on Wednesday of this week. The
ceremony was performed at the home of
the bride's mother in Lawrence by Rev
Edgar W. Smith of the Presb terinn
church of this place
The bride with her mother conducted
a millinery slore here for some time this
spring and it was during their residence
here that the acquaintance sprang up
which rPMiiltd in the nuptials Dr.
Lalon is mghl esteemed b the citizens
of Paw Paw and his bride is one of Law
rence's estimable youug ladies.
The True Northerns joins their host
of friends in congratulations. The bappv
jouple left at once after th1 ceramony,
at high noon, for Peliston, Mich , where
the Doctor will resume the practice of
his profession He was u resident and
practicing physician of that place nine
years ago.
Annual Gleaner Picnic
The annual picnic and rally of the
tJleaners of lirape Leaf Arbor will be
held in Aluiena at Hall's Sir.g Brook
onTcursday August 8 A tine program
has been arrnnyed, with numerous ath
letic contests, ball tiames, music by the
Gleaner Band and a picnic dinner at
noon. Kverybody is invited.
The True Northerner is in receipt of
a welcome letter from Mrs. Fay Weston,
formerly of Paw Paw and now of Day
tona, Florida. We are grateful for the
congratulatory expressions on our pro
posed improvements, and Mrs. Weston's
good wishes and bright hopes for our
future. Continuing she says in part:
"We have had splendid summar weath
er so far, nice cool bret zes of the ocean
all the time, and the nights are always
comfortable, although the sun does get
pretty hot during the day, if one is
obliged to get out in it, but Daytona has
a good many summer visitors from the
interior and southern states. We have
such a splendid beach for bathing and
automobiling. We meet many Michigan
people here during the winter season
several of whom make9 their home
here. Mr. Weston and 1 may make a
trip north a little later in the season and
if so hope to stop off at Paw Paw for a
few days.
Our son Darrell and wife are planning
to visit Michigan during August and
will be in Paw Paw a portion of the time.
Many of your readers will remember mv
mother who spent several winters with
us there and will be pained to know of
her death which occurred at the home of
my sister in Albion, June 5tb, after a
short illness.
We are sorry to note the deaths of so
many of our old Paw Paw friends recent
ly and hope you won't be obliged to re
cord so many and so often in the future.
With kindest regards to the old friends
who may be glad to hear from us.
I am Very Truly
Mrs. Fay A. Weston.
BLAZE CAUSED BY
E
MOOING STOV
E
f
PRIMARY MONEY TO HI I C RFdnV F(1R
T.LL IU IILnUI I UN
BE DISTRIBUTED
KILLEFER IN BIG
BASE BALL DEAL
Mr. and Mrs. Wade Killefer are home
this week. Wadf figured in a recent
deal by which HoriOg goes to New York
Xntionals and the Great Mathewson goes
iu Cincinnati as manager of the "Reds".
Wade now bttougt to Now York, but is
not sure yet wh ether he will play there
or tro to Boston or Pittsburg. He is at
home waiting for instructions. He has
played sensational ball this year, and
liked his team mates, but will be glad to
go to any of the teams mentioned, for
the reason that he has never liked the
city of Cincinnati.
Van Vlecks off tor
Three Weeks Auto Trip
Dr. and Mrs. A. B Van Vleck left On
Wednesday for an auto trip to Macon,
Missouri, where they will visit Mrs. Van
Vleck s father, Dr. Hildrech. The Doc
tor will go on to Kansas City where he
will attend the National Osteopathic
convention. They expect to be gone
from Paw Paw about three weeks.
We Don't Expect You To Buy
A Big Bill of Lumber
until you have decided on just what you are going to
build.
i jff i i it
u manes a aiuereiice in me speculations ana aimen
i sions.
We calculate however that you calculate on building
something sometime, and hope when ready that we
may have the opportunity of calculating the cost of your
lumber bill.
Free, Hall & Mutchler
Phone 37 , Paw Paw, Mich.
The fire den a tti.-n I was caiied to the
Buckhout residence Tuesday forenoon
and as usual an oil stove was respon
sible for tne ,hkl a, Mrs. Buckhout was
washing She stepj ?d to the niothes
line to h.ing up a garint) I, when she
heard a sharp report ha of something
exploding. (Join to the kUchen door,
she found the room in tiimes. Hushing
in, in her endeavor to put out the fire,
she was quite painfully burned about
the face and arms tier condition how
ever is not alarming, although the ex
treme hot weather makes her burns the
more painful. The department made
an exceptionally quick trip to the scene
of the (Ire, and bad it under control in a
few minutes The furniture and cloth
ing was all removed from the house, so
the damage from water is very slight.
The walls of the kitchen were badly
charred and some damage was done to
the upstairs, where the fire had eaten
between the partitions. We understand
the loss is covered by insurance.
FELL FROM LOAD OF
HAY AND BROKE ARM
The county treasurer received notice
early in the week that the sum of $12,
045. 10 primary school money would soon
be sent for distribution in Van Bjuren
county. This vast sum of money is ap
proximately the same as was apportioned
lastear and can be used for one pur
pose and one only, the payment of teach
ers' salaries. The library money for
Van buren county this year is $641.10
whereas the sum for this fund last year
was $1213.65. This fund is made up of
fines paid into the couny. The amount
shows a considerable falling otf in this
branch of county business.
MORE ABOUT THE
KALAMAZOO RACES
Kver thing is ready for the (irand
Circuit races at Recreation Park, Kal
amazoo next week, and when the gong
sounds for the first race next Monday,
the very cream of the worlds spee J kings
will oe there. All the celebrated drivers
will also be on band, including the
grand Old Man of the racing turf, Pop
Cieers. Mr (Jeers was injured recently
in a race, but will be able to take his
place behind the favorites at Kalama
zoo. A fine racing card is announced
for every afternoon during the week,
and it will be hard to pick the ''best
Day " The $10,000 paper mill stake
comes on Wednesday.
EXCESSIVE HOT, DRY
WEATHER CONTINUES
ASHBRODK BILL
Karl Hazird, a fourteen year old boy
from Hartford, was painfully injured at
the home of his ui.cle, Fred Cornell on
Tuesday of this week He was assist
ing his uncle in drawirg hay from the
field. He was on the load, and on his
way to the barn did not notice a tele
phone wire which caught him just right
to sweep him from the load The fall
broke one wrist, and otherwise bruised
his face and shoulder. White the injury
is painful and irill require some time to
heal, no serious results ar"1 anticipated.
MAKING READY FOR
THE RIG CARNIVAL
Hartford isgettiug ready fr the K.
ui P. Carnival which opens next Tues
day August 1 for a period of five days.
This week a company of professional
decorators with the aid of thousands of
yards of bunting and Hags galore are
decorating tho streets for the event
The promoter of t till affair and the man
who is really "behind the guns" is H. F.
buker, well known throughout the
county. Mr. baker is a promoter of
ability, and his connection with the
Hartford Carnival insures its success.
Pension Bill, that has pass
ed the House likely to
become a law.
The announcement that the Ashbrook
bill relative to widows' pensions bad be
come a law was erroneous. It appears,
probable, however, that the bill may, in
the near future, pass the senate and be
signed by the president. As it now
stands, the bill provides for an increase
of pensions to twenty dollars per month
to all widows of soldiers whose names
are now on the pension roll on reaching
the age of seventy years. Another im
portant provision of the bill removes the
restriction of the existing law that re
quires that the marriage of the de.'ea d
soldier must have been solemnized prior
to the 27th day of June, 1390, and allocs
a pension to any widow who ma have
been married to a deceased soldier of the
civil war prior to the date of the passage
of the act in question. There are also
other provisions in the act of interest to
widuws who have lost their right to ptQ
sion by reason of re marriage. Of course
these provisions are subj-ct to change
before final action on the bill. Any
iridOW who is interested in tho BfOVil
ions of the pending bill who will Mod
her npme and address to Mr. (). W.
Rowland, of Paw Paw will be promptly
notified by mail of the panning of the act
provided it shall hr-come a law.
Clair (Joss of the Bangor Gazette was
in Paw Paw on busiuess Wednesday.
The hot woather record for Paw Paw
has botfl -'l ittered beyond all recogni
tion during the past week. The high
mark MM reached Monday when the
mercury stood at 101 degrees in the
shade No prostrations have been re
ported, but everyone begins to feel the
ifl cts of the continued hot, dry weather.
I Jar trns and lawns are burning up and
the dust from the streets at times has
seemed almost unbearable. It seems as
though there must be relief soon.
Stork Leads Reaper
The Stork lead the Grim Reaper a
merry chase in the state of Michigan
during the month of June. There was
a total of 6,775 births in the stat9 dur
ing the month and 3,174 deaths.
Eaton & Mosier
Headquarters for Drugs, Groceries, Hardware,
Paints and Oils
We pay 23c for Eggs, Cash or Trade.
Our Fruit and Vegetable Department is well stocked
with the choicest selections and the price is right.
Salt Fish in Brine
Blood Red California Salmon 13c
White Fish 14c
Mackerel 18c
Right Now is the Time to Paint
And We Take Especial Pride in Recommending
DE VOE and REYNOLDS
Best Mixed Prepared Paint
There is none better and it is ready for use.
For Indigestion, Stomach or Bowel Trouble we recom
mend A. D. S. Milk ot Magnesia.
Phone 160 Goods Delivered
FACE BADLY SMASHED
BY KICK FROM HORSE
The Name Round Oak
On a Room Heater is Proof of its Efficiency
John Smith, son of Mr. and Mrs.
iiiram Smith of Waverly township, suf
fered a serious injury last Sunday which
might have proved fatal. He was turn
ing the horses out to pasture, when a
colt turned and kicked him full in the
face. The lower jaw bone was splintered
and bis teeth knocked out. It will be a
long time before he fuliy recovers from
the injury and it is quite probable that
bis face will be disfigured.
FOR CO. ROAD COMMISSIONER
Three candidates for county road com
missioner were callers at The True
Northerner office this week, L. H. Wa
ber of Kendall, Cieorge Dillnbeck of
Lawrence and Hayes Disbrow of Ban
gor. Mr. Waber is one of the present
commissioners and a candidate for re
nomination. Mr. Dillenbeck is a candi
date for the six ear term and Mr. Dis
brow for the two year term. All are ex
perienced road builders whose announce
ments appeal in this issue under the
head of paid political advertising.
Bowen - Coleman Nuptials
Mm- Bessie Bowen, daughter of Mr
and Mrs. 0 Efc Bowen of Faw Paw. was
married to Mr. .lohn M. Coleman of
Lawton on Wednesday of this week.
The ceremony was performed in Kal
amaz"o, after which the happy couple
left for Detroit ard other Kastern points.
Mr. Coleman has a position in the De
enberg A Stoke' store at Lawton. They
will be at home there on their return.
Both contracting parties are well known
and highly respected oung people and
The True Northerner joins in congratulations.
The Round Oak Co are makers of
high grade oods only.
Prom the fact (bat nearly every
farm house and nearly all school
houses in Michigan are owners of a
Round Oak heating stove is proof that
the name Round Oak stands foa some
thing. When we tell you that the
Room Heater for school houses made
at Dowagiac is the best one built we
are sure that you will give the state
ment considerable weight.
These Room Heaters have been
built for several years. In all cases
they are pleasing their owners.
We have placed them in 8 school
houses and in one store and are very
enthusiastic over the results.
The- ventilating svstem that is a
part of this heater It worth hundreds of dollar- 1 your children who attend the rural,
schools. You cannot do your child a better deed than by intluencing your school board to
have one of these Round Oak ventilating heating systems put in before Kail school opens
up. Wi shall be glad to meet with you at your home or at your school house and thorough
ly explain this heater to you. We have alieady sold several plants for Fall installation.
H. C WATERS & CO., Paw Paw, Mich.
Round Oak Agents for Paw Paw and Room Heater Agents for the County.
