1 I
P ADVERTISE " YT rrr - -Zg - HH
There l much advertising value In jfj& I HJCIISMSfiv a -x. ,. iH
Xt bun. , The merchant who has fi( I SPBHSBHMS8! ADVERTISE !)
"'n.hWhLl In n.,UlnK vl " I I ILL -fllcPilRN BHIl III lariBl "" ' " Interna In pushing the i; I
,Mut the nghborhood in ,ugnCM &Z II I lFSr???33UifO0'-ilW I II II II buslne. Kvcry hwtlncss 1, worthy rH
U !"? T0T. n i epU,n.t,0n fe IMMS&tfSStlS&ZTpGEtP fflftfrSgll1 II yll I II to a center or less extent of being V
I I" """ 'VmlnJ, l, I. T.' 1 'l'li,ri!i1 Wife- L 11 enlarged If the right person gets the .
U pitwr or business nbllltj he will " 77Z S' business In hand and pushes In the ,!
b4bl be unb ' the POLITICALLY. REPUBLICAN right vva) he can mako of that bust- ?
foods. The moral Is ADVBllTlsr: Entered a, Berontl cla .,. , "vnl-l-'l ntrUDLIUMIN, ness a very decided enlargement and lB
VOLUME"?" NlfMllPli "15' ' tne- p"lce t Price. Utah Under the Act of March J. 1S79 m for hlm,clf n c marked ad. f U
m jUUMJ EVERY FRIDAY " JULY 28. 1916 " l
stock markets
i showweakness
fl ieei' ( vtti.i: imoKt: iwnvn.
S iiii.to ioht c i:rs.
I n-cllno I ffeitlvu At All (In Market.
fl rxiut Half lli .Normal Supple
for Thl" Tlmp of tnr Mirip and
Umt Hnvp Shown n Cnnllniinl
ffeaUnrx Mikv Momln) l4it We-ck.
JM Sun Special Venice
KASHAS (MTV, Mo . July St iteef
rtttle tr ke twcnt)-rlve to fort) cent
bit week leratiM of n general vvctik.
km en the doing nidi, tin line ef.
fretle at nil (Market. Tod a) the
npply here I. ten thousand head
itout one half a normal suppl) for
UK time of the enr, and price are
ticvrnb higher, tin to tvvcnl) cent,
a most uwn. I'ulp fed Western.
kl it 1 1 "6. Mine price in on hint
Mind.) Indicating that the In., on
itch cattle I (i t week linn hern re
plant Kansas grafted stier sold at
IT It tuiln), ii compared Willi $7,50
r iiidp cattle last Mondaf, nrarl
ill the Iom regained Blocker and
Utitt piirchniieii licro lust week were
Ulrtt-en thousand head, twice an
tuny ax In same week last )ear
Sheep and lamb, have shown tint
used weakness slrico lait Munda)
til tod. when there hik a riHimr)
tl ttHiut ten renin Klicht cam of
unlit from llli knell fc (Ira), loaded
ttlironnlcc Ore, arrived thl. morn
kl ind nold at 19 90, with nlxmt a
tiaJrrd feeding lainlm imrted nut at
KM The fat lamlm weighed e
tttrtfto iHiund. and the fiedira
tuVHinc poundn, the lamb, arriving
lire in rxt client condition, nhnnlng
ttferl f good feeil at grnilng ta
.'. Tin) look n good fill here
Vrttern learllng are quotid around
DM urthem t? CO, enen 17 00 on
Oe Ul. of tmla) market Demand
(rem the counlr) I. strong, but the
apply ititnlnK In entln I) Inndruuale
Dflll II llrredlng iwea wild nrouiul
II M IimIav mine ) parting briedrm
it II 10 and tin re are man) Mamllng
wJr held b) roinmlimloii men hen,
U U filled ai Min na the .lock pan
U had The feeding lamlm loda)
tiooih heit) welRht., void at nine
Mlin rradll)
II ii alii ixlilhltpd weak new. re
tutt) lut like cattle and fhecp, Hie)
W4 higher toda), ten unt. tip , top
lilt, lulk or HaleM f 9 (0 to (9 70
j'P llcht hog ii CO. I'otir lofldn of
who hog .old here la.t Tuemln) nt
MI nd $9 70, weighing under two
HBdrrd pound., onl) four other
like weight, bringing more
tun thrre huiiio da) I'ar we.tern
M arc coming through In good
pe and aft, r the) are put Into the
Km here no man living can tell
.wm rmn hog. from local tirrltor).
Mac thi) .ell in line with Ml.mirl
Kna. hug. here, of their w light..
11 PHIDEHHI EMPLOYES
Tfl.. nrgo (uiiuiny to ImiU rtir
Mm Who I'lill-t.
A't Muer or thin clt) ha. re.
''il the following notice from the
ran Imo offlcn regarding hik
wojei of hi. compan)
wellt I argo and compan) ha. an
wunced It will provide for emplo)e.
M were member, of tho national
wra an of June 17. 1916, and have
mutieriil Into the federal er
Tk follow a
rimi The regular Mlnrled em
n.who am murrkd, and .Ingle
J"" " lia'e rdatlvea aitually de
wnt upon them for nupport, al
inr .ufruient to make up the
wierenre bitwten the government
t of pni ,,n,j lmj 0,rr Rovernment
wm thin ma) tie made, und the
Jwn . rate or pu) to uch em-
" !in -The regulur naliirled em
f" wtm are .IiikIp. without de
Jnt r htlve. an nllovvance .uffl
"" "mat the dirrcrcuue betwien
"rnment pio mid one-hnlf the
Mnv rate of pa)
r.7i ' '"lilo)iK IncludiHl In thine
""wtltni will bv returned to com
tiiTi1 ' I'roWdeil the) nro phnl-
" tl und uppllcntlomi for re
JPlosnient are made within thirl)
"in in the date they leave the
ton. ' "l "' If the) return
triv," ,r"M",n unplo). the) will le
"tm with prevlou. .ervlco In pon
" with the benefit nnd pennlon
"i on riu: noo-i om mjvhii
ki8i,'f'rlnt""lent ar,,ri ""J-11 "" '
hi . r ','t', "f "f I" the I'aloma
tiwdilf fa"' f,n 'l"llnw ton ac
pji, , ' rr II Cole, n Bait Lake
jij 'r kir, who ha. returned from
i2",,iill. where he went to In
Irlfi i." I'rl'ert) In the Star dlu
ort m1 Mar ,ho HooKlerllo), I,eo
Coi, ' " nn nnd Cedar-Tallimmn
The !f!! ,,,e e,n ' ,," f"et MlJe
Bdr.f. U ,,nM ,u,w" t0 ha five
.. . l ,,xo1 tnil haa utorted on
r iV ''.' ,he "' Imndred
trlct n ? "'tPJ the I'ortuna din
Poriun, .u,ern l'evpr He ) that
int . , U,oU good to him and he
M ri ,ho ''ringing In of some
in tl);r ,u er. Borne detnlhi are now
r SLIGHTLY COOLER, WITH SLOWLY RISING TEMPERATURE.
c
5 MOetHfAT I
MftVBE WEIL '
HORHN. NWEAC001 .
I SUMMER AFTER
I, 1 " I &(?
NOTICE TD SUBSCRIBERS!
Ilie Sun lutH n number of nubscriburH who arc in
arrears on their subscriptions and which should
be pnftl, or otherwise we will be compelled to
drop them from our mailluK lit. Look at the
date on our paper. The Sun can use the money,
so call and settle same or mall it to us.
rBBtUMU FBIK '
t tali share or ppropiialloii I or
tlrl iiir l Ml,0Vi
WAHIIINOTOV I) (, Jul) 80
pHirtlinniriit aitiong the Malm or
the tint )ear' appropriation or rive
mllll in dollar, tarried b) the mvv
good road, nil va. announced toda)
b the deparlinelit or agriculture,
which Iih. lerlirietl the rigure. to the
treu.ur) deimrtiiient and .late offi
cial". 1o be entitled o II ohari each
Mate miip-t provide an amount Mpial
to that put up b the rmleral govern
ment Texu. gt the largeet .hure,
$S9t 9S7, New Hork .eeond, $J$0
7:0, IVniiolv'Hiila third S30 041,
und minoi fourth $::ov:
Hi fore making the dUlflon Pecre
tiir) lloiiMou ilediulid i per lent or
$110,000, -t aolde b the ait for ad
mlnlmralli.n Then the $MO,000
wa. allotted to the .tale, on the baila
of one-third re.peitlvel) In the ratio
of area, impnlatlnn and rural deliver)
nnd ftar rmitm
Among other .late, allotmenlii ure
Colorado $k 0, Idaho. $S0 US,
.Vevaibi. $8I3, tiregon 7 087.
Utah, $SC,9I0. and W)omlng $1 190
The flrt lntallinent I rnr the fluoal
)ear indlng June 10 1917. Kor the
fiur .uei-eeillng ear the following
amoiiul. to I apportioned In the
wime manner were authorled J9l
$10 000 000. 1919. $16 000 000 19X0
$10 0000 000. 121 $11000 000
In addition $100000 It a propria,
ted ei h )ear for ten )ar for the de
velopmeiit of rural road. In the na
tional fore!
INK AllH MED
Ilium h of nlloiiul Orciiiiliillou '
Stain d III Hah
The Hughe. allUiliti of I tali, a I
bramh of the national organhwtlou
dealgneil to enllut In autlve M-rvke all
S,m. who favor the election of he
ormer ..ren.e Hiurt Jh.-the .0 the
iirMldeni) Iwf " p"'1' ThH
Jieftared Pur,Mr of the "J?-
i to inu-ane the .upirt of liulneini
le'nidTrdlnarlly active In Po.UM
Memlwrhlp It U explained. U nut re-
ire to work for the ele..ln of Mr I
Hiifchea lelng "UgH'le " '"'To i'l1
Tie Utah I ranch f the alliance
.Jr t. It. exl.tenee IM the following
meme Id' "" , '"T UB
B nator Oe"rge Suther and W B
M.CornUk C W. Whltlrt C
Kilii.t U K drowbeek 0 J Haim
bur A V. Callughan J V HMjl
uJSr and UenJamln I, Ilkh
nation n iim iarrM In .totlc t,
The Bun offl
lftlD0l,EST
I umnil Krrvlo. Hi Id lor Mr. J. IU
(iiiiili rwm hatunla).
MT IM.KB.NT, Jul) SJ funeral
wrvlce. were held )e.lerdny In the
.North Ward chapel for Mr. Clara
Ore (lunder.ou who died Thur.day
evening In Bait Uike Clt nt the fain
II) honii The .ervlce. were In churge
of HUhop II, C Jacob., and ptclul
mu.lc wa. rendered b) thn .North
Ward choir Kulogle. were delivered
b) Urilileiit A Merx. I're.ldent C N
l.und nnd Illnhop Orlando llrndle) of
Moroni MIm Uoldln NelUon very
leautlfull) wing 'One I'Uetlng
Hour." Interment wna In the city
leuutir), where the grave wa. iledl
lutnl b) Jo.eph Bill) The pallbear
em were Mr. Uunderxon . five I ro
tlur. und a brothir.ln-law. and wire
JoKeph, Aaron, Krwln, Juiiim nnd
Bamuel (lee nnd Carlo, (luinlerxm of
I'rlce The floral offering, wire 11111
umiall) profime nnd Itsiutlful, bear.
lug mute li.tlinon) to the love nnd
e.leem cherUhed b) ull for the ib-leaeed
Mm (iuniler.on wa. born In Moroni
In 1 S7C nnd wa. married In Uk to
J IS (lundnriion The) made tin Ir
home In Mt IMeanant until four )eor
ago, when the bunlnewi lutere.t. of
Mr (lunder.ou took them to Bolt
Uike Clt). tihe wu. Ih mother or
rive ihlldreu, Ixila llaur, l. era
and Ho), ranging In ut.e from .Ixtien
to eight )enr. Bhe l a I no .urvlved
1 1) .x brollnr. and two .Intern Mr.
Mar) Jane lllai kham or Moroni and
MM Alice OoldlttK or .Nephl A large
mi niter of relative, and frb ml. from
out of town came here to ntti ml the
wrvlte.
IMIK l-s HI' hlllJ M
HMIK UTh HIS.M UN SMH
Bull lila Clt) Uirbtr. will not In.
ireae the prlie or haircut, and
.have At u recent meeting the tyih
ject wa dleuMed with the bleu or
advancing the prl'e or tonvorlal op
eration, but becauM or the refuwil
or .nine .hop. to entir an agreement
for higher prliea and the rear that
1 hanging from the thlrty-rlve tent,
for a hulr cut and fifteen cent, for a
.have would cau.e some patron, to
change liack to .having tliem.elve.
and having their wive, out their hair
'bowl t)le, the proponed ralae wa.
not made
Hurler, all over the countrj are
raUIng price, becau.e the war ha.
forced up the coat of all barberlng
kupplle aa well a. evcr)thlng eUe
the price of which I. controlled l
foreign coniumptlou and Importation
Hair tonic, .oap, gl)cerlne, razor.
tKbieom. comlm and bru.hu., cv'U
cream, talcum powder und every
thing u.ed by thn barberlng frater
nlty In the beauirylng of mankind
ha. been boo.ted by the pcevl.hneM
of Mar aoeordlng to Suit Iike City
lonitorlalhiu
Tr fhe Bun for our Job work
1
IMPROVEMErTFSJJNDEIt WAV
Montlitllo I'Iioiip line to Up I'm On
Mflelent ltal.
J N Corbln, pre.hlent and inan-eger
of the Midland Telephone company,
arrived In Montlcello Hnlurdn), .a),
the Ban Junn Itecord or the 19th
Corl In .tntea Hint he I. going to do
eon.lderahto divilopment work while
In town thl. time He I rought n
Nwltchlxmrd nluiig which ho ha. In
.tailed at the local 1 xchaugi The
telephone rate, have lieeii readJuMed
und Corbln declare, that tho local
rate, are equal to tho.e charged nit
over the countrj The rate between
Montlcello and Monti ha. been fixed
nt .Ixt) cent, and local peniplo can
now talk to Thomp.nn. for ulnet)
1 1 nt. The.e rate, cover three-minute
call, and If a longer tlmi I. riiilred
It will be neieiunry to pa) rnr the ex
tra lime
It In the Intention or Corbln to
put the .)Mem on 11 paying u. well 11.
more ifflclent ba.l. The m w rate.,
will It I. thought, lncren.e the profit.
In tho end In town no more than
four telephone, will be nllowed on
one line nnd a. .oon n. Corbln can
get around to It the entire )tcm will
be overhaul! d Borne new phone,
will le Installed nt thl. time and an
erforl will be made to get the Inde
pendent line, under the management
of thn Midland Telephone lompnn)
Hhotihl It oci ur that no .atUfaitory
arrangement can be made It will be
neicpiuiD to operate two exchange
nt Montlcello. u. the Midland com
pan) re.ervc. It. .wltchhoard for the
exclu.lvo ue of that enmpnn)
mmmm
Marriage of I'opnlnr loung Couple At
Moutp Kogllo Hotel,
1 hu mnrrluge of (lean K.geure und
Ml.. Ball) Peaiy, two popular )oung
peoplu of I'rlci, occurred la.t Batur
da, July ::d. at the home or Mr anil
Mm Jo.eph Clrowio nt the Monte
Bogllo Hotel There were about furl)
Invited gue.t. prewnt I'ollowlng the
leremony 11 .upper wa. nerved the
new 1) we el., after which thi) left on
the 1 veiling train rnr Bait l.ake Clt)
(or 11 .hurt hone) moon They will
return to I'rlce to make their home
MIm IVni) ha. made her home
with Mm (IroMo In I'rlce (or tho wit
three ear. and I. known a. a good
lovable girl The groom I. engaged
In the .heip bu.lneiM In thl. part or
the mate having large herd. In the
vlelnlt) or I'rhe
ih:ni:u m mo fiiiNin:
I ll.lis IIK.III or w v Ml'
The Denver und Itlo (Irande ha.
Hied with the United Btate. land of.
flee at Vernal map. for an additional
twent). three mile, right or wu) be.
tween Avlntaqulu Caii)ou and l)u
che.ne Clt), which complete, the fll.
Ing. or the compan) from Boldler
Bummlt to Itandlett. Aa )et no fll
Ing. have been made Into Vernal
The exact dlitance covered b) the re
cent filing a 33 03 mile.
Burvoora of thn Bait !-fll e Itoute
nro hurrying rrom Hed Creek, almost
oppo.lta Avlntaijuln Can)on making
a aurvey which In moat place. U raid
to le Identlcul with that made by the
Denver and Itlo Grande engineer. It
I. reported that the Denver and Itlo
drande aurve) follow, the mint feaa
Iblo route 'I he race for the Straw
berry Canyon .till la In program, with
the Ulo Qrande .lightly In the lead
When In doubt, take It to Good
man ife repair. ' any old thing '
Bun adlet. bring remits
PI0NEER DAY AT
PRICE SUCCESS
liAIUJi: tltOUD Ol' Ol.l) Itll.KS
(I VI lint At I'MIK.
I.lttpii to BNitlie ami Song Al I'nlr
UriiuuiN After Willi Ii lllnnrr I.
Nrvcil Tliem tin the I'nrk I41W11
(hlldnnV SMirt In tlip ft moon
Da) N (In ally Knjojeil.
I'rlce. 1'bineer Da) celebration
wn. n genuine auecr. rrom ever)
point of view It wa. 11 da) that ev
er) one inJo)ed from the fact that
there were nmu.ement. to plesi.a nil
Tho dn) ( proceedlngN commenced
with the iiMcmhllng ut the court
hiui.e corner nt 0 30 11 clock AHcr
n .election b) the band all adjourned
to Clt Park, where theSnornlng pro
gram wo. carried out In the grand
atnnd at that place
Morning Program.
Invocation lll.hop Albert llrjner
Bong. ' Utah We Iivc Thee
Kchool Children
Addrr.ii. Utah Pioneer." He v.
Onccir Hmllh and () J Harmon
Bong ' I'tnh. Blar of the Went
Bchool Children
Quartette Mu.lc Mom. Ilurgetier,
' ProvvN and other.
Ilee llatlon. 'Hlory of the Plomem'
MIm lluth Mlllburn
Quartette Mu.lc Me.nm llitrgener,
Prow, nnd other.
M11.I1 b) the Pr.ic Hand.
At thn fair building there wn. n
miniature reproduction or the pioneer
trait leading: rrom Nauvoo to Bait
iJike Clt). .howlng thn different
.telle, along the route Thl. wn.
Unveil b) throng, and recalled the
man) hard.hlp. the pioneer, endured
In the pilgrimage to Utnb Cun.lder
Ing the abort time at thn 1ll.1m.nl of
tho.e who got up thl. feature It waa
un excellent reproduction and enjo).
ed to the limit b) the throng of .pec
latum It di pitted earl) pioneer life
nnd habit, nnd wu. a credit to the
de.lgner.
Afti nimiii I'rogrum.
After dinner thn following pro
gram wn. Parried nut nt the City Park
until thn threatening winther drovn
mo.t of thn crowd home while thn
lattir part or the .porta were taking
place
(Iranit inarch or children In po.tume
led 1 1) Price bund
Drill or llo) Spout, representing
the Mormon battalion
Prlmnr) bo), cln.. a. pioneer,
with pioneer wagon, nnd alnglng pio
neer Ming..
Pioneer danca b fourth and firth
grade.
Beagutl dame In co.tumn b) first
nnd aecnnd gradn prlmar) bo).
DnnUh ilaniti of greeting
Shoemaker dance
llanxcl and (Irelel b rimt und .ec
nnd grade glrln,
Hungarian folk dunce by third
gradn Klrlt
Itocky Mountain .unflower dance
by fourth und fifth grade girl.
Swedl.h chip by bulterfty glrU.
Old Itmtlo b) butterfl) Klrhc,
Dalnt) .lep and I raiding the pole
by fourth und fifth grade primary
girl. In co.tume
Children' .porta.
During thn afternoon there waa a
ball game between the Odd I'ellovva
nnd the Miller Creek Huhe., the .core
being twenty-one to tlghteeir In fa
vor of the I til I.e.
Much credit I. due tolm Olive
Mlllburn und the re.t or the commit
tee. In thtlr untiring effort. In mnk
Ing thl. day 11 .iicce... The early
remlnlncence. b H, S. Hor.ley were
enJo)ed b nil who heard him, ha
telling or the experience In the earl)
.ettlement of thl. valley The fe.tlv
I tie. wound up with n grand Ull at
City Hall In the evening
hi,i: or $ii(i iitwi'h or
iuii:ii i,m ik pi,nni:d
Announcement wu. made from thn
alate land officii la.t I'rlda) that sev
eral thouMind nore. of land .euttered
throiiKh Kmer) fount) will bo aohl at
puldlc auction Beptt mlier 13th The
Mile will lake placet at Ca.tlu Dale
The land. In location ure reported to
vary rrom grnxlng tract, to .ectlon.
embracing fertile .oil
It aim wu. directed b) the .late
land boare' that mile at public auction
of .landing timber In Summit county
will take pluce ut Coalville Auguxt
18th The timber la reported to be
aultahle and .ufflelent for the putting
of approximate!) 8t .'00 railroad tie..
1 i;;i: at e.itnnN hii:h di:.
STHn M'WIIINM'A HOUBH
Another deplorable fire ooeurred
Monday afternoon when the C C
MoWhlnne) cement block reildencn
acro the atreet aouth of the church
wa. de.troyed .ay. the Oreeu lllver
Dl.patch of the 2 1st The occupant,
of the properly wero I'rank I Phil.
Ill'" and family, who loat almott all
their belonging. Including a valuable
diamond ring their clothing, trunk.,
keepwikea nnd much other valuable
propert)
I'ortunatel). MoWhlnney had 1111 In.
auranco policy for a thousand dollam
and the content, were alio Injured
for the name amount b) Phillip.
WINTER QUARTERS I
MAN 1NJTRDUBLE . I
shot n in.i'i-r hiii.itu r tv WU
TIHMP1 10 lCPI"M Ifl
"""" "" 1
Noah I'ottir N rlmi.l) Woiiudcil I'rl-
liny Nlglil It) Dtput) Unto of Hrl- iH
Hr, Who Hail Coup There- to Take M
lllm lulu (nlotl) llullil trfMtgra M
In UN j, H
Va. l H
WI.NTKIl QlAHTKItS. Jul) 31 iH
Noah Potter wa. .hot nnd .crlouily H
wounded la.t night b Deputy Sheriff 1
leute of Helper when be related nr- H
rut Potter had trouble In the mine H
with 11 (Ireek, John Pnppa., who MM
.worn to n complaint A warrant waa KH
U.ued rnr Pottir'a nrrr.t nnd waa H
eervetl t) the lot a I con.tnhle. It. U. H
Menxle. Poller would not aubmlt to 1 $))))))))
arret .0 word wn. .ent to Sherttf I ' H
Henry or Price, who ami up thn coun- ' H
t) ntlorne) nnd two deputy aherlffa, H
llhh ami l.eute who met Potter ai H
ho waa coming from work nnd tod H
him he wa. tinder urre.t He tlefled H
them and atnrted running for home H
when he wn. .hot The bullet atrttck H
him In the hip H
The BundA) .1 hoot nnd primary aa. H
aoolatlon nrn celebrating the Twenty- H
i'ourth with u program In the meet H
Inghou.e pon.l.tliig or lecture, on the H
ploneem, imnrteta. folk dnncea, reel H
tnllnna and a group of email bo)a iy'H
repre.entlng the Mormon batlallmi. JH
In the nfti rnoon n flmt aid exhibition " H
will bei given, after which 11 children'. H
dance wilt be given jH
The I'tnh I'uel company la liutall- I H
Ing 11 new ulternntlng current inach- ! H
Ine nnd expect, to have tight. In all ' H
thn houe. h) Augiut l.t Tho mine ' H
worked ivir) day loat week M
CiMISH IN SESSION
Pmlot Made to Klntp Hoarel Agalrut
linn tiM' In Valuation. H
The county ciimml.louem met lait i
Mondu) ufternoon, ull immbera prea- t
ent A notice from the atate Iniard of 1
euallxntlon nr It. Intention to make H
an lut rente In tho valuation or Car- Hfl
bon county cattle, aheep und men fl
ihandl.e waa referred to the county ( M
attorney to make objection thereto I M
and n motion of prole.t nvnlnut the I " H
ral.e wa. ordered .ent In with a .tig- 1,1 H
ge.tlon that tho .tale Ixiard make up W H
II. derielenclea by Increa.cd valua- M B
tlona on property controlled nnd own- iV M
eel by the railroad, and other public 1 1
iitllltle.. ua the valuation on aheep, W H
cattle und merchundl.n I. considered V, H
ninplo now jj,' H
U O Hoffmann and I.oul Pleriiccl T M
vveru before the Iniard concerning a " H
fence on the latter 11 property In the j I H
vicinity or Hlawntha, which waa or 1) IJjH
tiered moved b) the vommlulonera !$ PH
Jul) 1 1 tli After wime explanation! 1 HH
the matter wa. referred to K H Dun- 1 flH
levy to look over the ground und get JJH
deed, for 11 piece of land to Int made I tH
Into 11 road to iipcommodale travel In ' "' H
that lotalliy. 1. ,&TiBH
A communication wa. rend rrom J. I ;H
B Thomp.on eouiernlng the road, at 1 ''ilHI
Char Creek and Winter Quarter nnd , iil'liaHiaH
waa referretl to Dunlev) for further ' 1 Bt'JHiail
action Adjournment wn. tal en aub- I J jkHH
Ject to tall of Comml.loner llryiier. J llltHHH
n tii'h I'iri ro'citop 1 nt: ; rHfil
IIIM" IN r.IIK HH llir,Ti (PaRI
I'tnh'a potato crop thl. )ear excel. "t iB J
from a .landpolut or quality, that of r amWtaW
any prevlou. )ear In the Mate a recent " N9MnH
hlatnr), according to George It Hill. ,T. H
plant pntholiigl.t and irofe.or of f"4E .H
botany of the Utah Agricultural col- JMm M
lege, who ha. Juat completed a tour ', i.tlnflTH
or many counlle. of the alate. Invra- V Jj1 f9xiM
tlgutlng and In.peetlng tho farm, and r'wlr tH
field, or Utah for thn achool Ha re- f 1Kb H
port, fewer potato dhteuae. than at i aBLvB
an) pretvlou. time In late )eara ' m R'H
Profp.or Hill hu. vl.lted Cache, , WlBRLH
Weber, llc.x Kldtr. Itlch. Utah, Bait if ItlPB
Iike, Juub, Sevier Millard, Sanpete, KiMtr! M
DuvU nnd WanaPh countle., and he 1 ,1 Xmlf H
reporla that In every county the pon- 11 fHlt H
itltlon. have Improved 'There never j u;i5Jl 1
wu. greater tut union for entourage- Lit .IfyflrA H
ment, ' he aald 1'ttilMHR al
im M'lNiim: iti.toviiitiNc Jii?'jS Bl
rtl,OWI, I'ltOM HIS INJUIHHft rlnKtit HI
Ha). Green lllver a Dl.patch of lait Wl'lO iaH
I'rlda) 'Word from Provn, where ?$M ,4H
Ted Mclntlre I. .till In tho hnapltal li!r? 11
U to thn effect that he U fur from SM in H
wctll )et, hi. head being .till In hand- i Jllx ji iiH
agea aa n re.ult or the accident he re- U VsiSt H
eently au.tulned In the mine, ut Bit- Hi; JU iH
ve r Clt) However he waa ah'e to Jrti '.WrJq H
pay hia mother a brier vl.lt at Silver Tti iS.JtJH
City alnto getting hurt He will proh. !m BhTiH
abl) remain nt thn Iioapltal awhile BbKv 'JH
)et III. bend wa. very badly eruih- OUKrA H
etl the akull being fractured, and hi. IJr&T lifl
eyo that wa Injured aomn )eura ago J Ob tH
waa again hurt eerlou.ly" J' W$? H
OH. I!. U MIM.S COMING. W - ,H
The people of Price will have the JKiHH
unuauul opportunity of hearing Dr K. Ii fil 3H
It. Mill, next Monday evening ut S I III rH
11 clock. Aa he ha. general charge of jjjjp ijijH
ull the Methodist churche. in Utah It rftioL H
1 nut often that ho run come to any I BIT' llD
one pkicp to apeak Aa a apiaker he iMInPr !jH
haa a national reputation His ad- tHrw H
elrewi Munda) night will he twent) laBaRj ,41
mlnutea long whluh with the inualo fSHLwflaH
will make a forty minute program rHpH(ti9H
The public Is Invited to this aorvlce (HflRi. Jaiiasas!
There uill be no collect Ion 9"WyM9fls)fl
