SThe Caldwell Watchman
VOL. 30. COLUMBIA. LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916. NO 3
SURVEYING WORK i
SOON TO START .
WILL COMPLETE THE DRAINAGE
FROM THREE PRONG LAKE
TO BAYOU DES GLAIZES.
TWO PARTIES ARE ORGANIZED
Ii
Second Party Will Follow Next Day f
After First Party Leaves-it Is Ex
pected Mr. Lombard Wall Meet
Them in Alexandria.
i1
.\Alxandria.
ASsist:iii:t !atp ]',l1gitt'r' (;#r'vais i
Lombardi ha notified M1r. WV. C'. liiud -
son. inelbnher iof 1to lied Itiverr A:tllia- 4
falaya & Ilayou lion~uf Levee lBoard. e
that surveying parties will be pllaced tl
to cotlTi'to lthe liainage survey from p
Three Pong Lake to ,Bay ou des  1
Glaizes and that parties will also be ii
put to work on the .Aletxndria to si
('hatlain Lake canal survey .
Mr. Lombard \;rites as follows: m
"Mr. Mott ran Iolt New Orleans on sc
the 17th for Ilelledeau with a party of
surveyors to complete the drainage
survey from Three Prong Lake to vt
Bayou des Ilaizes. I have organized cr
two other parties to place on the qt
Alexandria to Chatlain Lake, and m
Chatlain Lake to Three Prong Lake, an
so the survey for the entire line he
should be completed within the next be
thirty days. I expect to leave here fe
with one of tLese, and will get off at F(
Lecompete, then drive out to the ca- fo
nal. 'ime second party will follow, so
and I am to meet them in Alexandria,
then we will go out to start the sur
vey at the lower limits of the city." mn
ha
STATE HAPPENINGS. M.
That Louisiana will have the best tht
crops it has produced for several of
years is the bejief expressed by James Inc
suiting engineer, who is in charge of Ha
enterprises in various parts of the tio'
state, including several large planta- na
tions. Mr. Billingsley returned re- no
cently from Ouachita parish, where
be visited different parts of the par
ish to make inspection of roads to be th
improved under the $500,000 bond ge
issue. He said when the work is com- BI
pleted Ouachita will have leading in- bE
to Monroe probably the finest system "«
of roads in the state. H
- -- th
When Paul Gauchard, 19, chauffeur, in
of 2830 Conti street, New Orleans, de- in
manded 75 cents as fare for driving at
two unidentified white men fronl Ca- A
nal and Rampart streets to City Park
avenue and Orleans street, at 2:30
So'clock he and the owner of the ma- ci
chine, Tony Rizzitto, aged 40 years, n
were set upon, punched and kicked a,
by the two men, who, after battering 3I
up their victims, escaped in another c
automobile which drove up at the a
time. I
At a bridge and good roads meeting a
held at Boyee Jefferson Highway As- u
sociation was formed. J. Dawson t
Johnson, cashier of the Bank of Boyce,
was elected president, and B. W.
Barnes, editor of the Boyce Journal, d
secretary. The objects of the asso
elation are to encourage the building t
of a better road for the Jefferson
highway between Boyce and Chopin, I
and devising ways and means of put- I
ting a bridge across Red River.
'she warehouse of J. A. Haas, a large
frame building at Marmon was de
stroyed by fire. The loss included
several thousand feet of lumber be
longing to J. A. Haas and about $1,
600 worth of wagons and farmers' im
plements belonging to the Eunlce
Hardware and Implement Co. It Is
not known it any insurance was car
ried.
The McNary Lumber Company of
Forest Hill which recently had their
sawmill plant burned to the ground
will rebuild. W. M. Cady, president of
the company, will leave shortly for
points North and East to place orders
with firms for the belting and shaft
ing, and it is estimated that the mill
when equipped, will cost in the neigh
borhood of $300,000.
Twelve bales, the last Bayou Chicot
cotton o. 1915, were sold by Sam
Thomas and H. L. Erlich to Mr. Guid
ry, of Ville Pla;tte, for 12.55 cents a
pound. The crop is good and the
acreage is about 15 per cent larger
than last year. While there are some
reports of boll weevils, the damage is
nominal.
Charbon has made its appearance m
Addis and vicinity. About a dozen
head of stock died of the disease
within the past week. The necessary
steps have been taken to prevent the
spread of the disease.
The effectiveness o1 the near-beer
law (.narteid by the last Legislature
wiil cost Shreveport $1,162.5) accord.
ing to George O. Lilley, city secrer
tart- treasurer, thlrough the refund of
one-half of the annuatl license fees
paid by ti., 46 dealers who operated
near-beer joints prior to the law gw iv
into offect on July 17. Th. law re
rluirres that half of the license f.les
paid by thI, dealers for their year's
business shall ,be re:'undld and the to
tal amount re- ivt'i by te,' city from
near-b,'-r dealers was 2.:,2t,, the par
ish will have to refund a considerabIde
anoi;nt of the taxes collht id from
near-beeor dealers as there were b'-
t wv-en 7r and 100 licenses issued in
1tioe parisih of which only 4; were for
dealers in Shreveport, this re funld will
e Iado llbi tith state tr:lasHuror t
the parish tax collector and will be
distributed lb. him among those secur
ing the license.
It was asserted that one llnterprls
in-g individual int Shreveport col.-ctled
as many license receipts as he could
get hold of prior to the law going into
eff-ect and intends realizing on them
throng tlhe refund, but his claims will
probably be contested as it was said
the law provides the refund shall b°
made to the holder of the license upon
surrender of the original receipt, and
this it is construed means that the
money shall be paid only to the per
son to whom the license was issued.
The damage from the storm was
very liftle at Folsom except to the
crops, which have been injured to
quito an extent, especially corn. The
model road connecting Franklinton
and Covington and passing through
here, has suffered considerably-the
bed being washed away for several
feet at a point about a mile south of
Folsom, which will make it necessary
for automobiles to make a detour of t
some two miles to pass.
"There is not a chance on earth of
my accepting any nomination at the
hands of the Prohioition Party," John F
M. Parker said when he was informed
that Oliver Stewart, business partner
of former Goverenor J. Frank Hanly of
Indiana ad i tm .,at ,..auii an
Haply would accept the party nomina- 1
tion for president if Parker were
named as his running mate. "I am
not a candidate for any office."
Evan J. McCall, of Donaldsonville,
the Ascension live stock breeder, and
general manager of the famous McCall 1
Blue Ribbon Live Stock Farm, has
been invited to deliver an address on
"The Breeding and Marketing of
Hogs," at the annual convention of
the Southern Cattlemen's Association,
in conjunction with the yearly meet
ing of the Louisiana lve Stock As
sociation, to be held at Shreveport,
August 15, 16 and 17.
The Ninth ward school tax election
carried. A light vote gave the 2 1-2
mill tax levy a majority of $60,631,
against $9,295. Fifty votes were cast
in favor of the tax and but six against.
Only one colored voter cast a ballot,
and that was one of the adverse six.
The schools of Slidell and the Ninth
ward, exclusive of this town, are now
: assured that they will receive full
- nine months' sessions for the coming
two years.
Engineering parties within a few
days will begin preliminary work p
on the modern road system which is
to be installed in districts 1 and 2 of
1Ouachita parish, comprising about
half the parish. James W. Billings
ley of Monroe has been appointed
consulting engineer in charge of the
work. Each of the districts has voted
e 1250,000 for construction of the roads.
d Marion L. Swords, sheriff of StL
SLandry parish for 16 years, was shot
,- and killed and two negroes assisting
1- Swords were perhaps fattally wound
e ed in a fight with Helaire Carriere~,
15 alleged fugitive from justice, about 10
r- miles west of Opelousas. Charles Cha
chare, deputy sheriff, who participat
ed in the fight was unwounded.
Ir Th Carondelet Canal and Naviga
id tion company, in liquidation (the old
,f Basin), filed injunction proceedings in
tr the Civil District Court against the
rs city of New Orleanstopreventthe sale
t- of certain land possessed by the com
ll pany for taxes. The claim is set up
i- the property in question is not subject
to taxation, and the taxes heretofore
paid were paid in error.
m Algernon Blair, of Montgomery,
d- Ale., has obtained the contract for the
a erection of the federal building at
he Minden, work to begin September 1
or The town has already donated a site
is Charles A. Saber of Minden start
drilling again at Doyline after a sa
pension of several weeks. He h
in contracted to go to 2,500 feet. II
en - f
se The Arkansas Natural Gas Co
ry pany began on their oil well at Ri a
he gold, after having been shut d tE
for seven weeks,.
NEW YORK FIGHTING INFANTILE PARALYSIS
r . " "'; " ,. ":::-"";" .2 .
z.,i: .,_~ . .:.,,.. .:
S. t ' .
f. . . . .
r" ::V
:"ii
ka's. " t i
'T'.' "''' : '1. ,
:111 the health force, ot New Ion:i arc obiiizted iand in action against the epidemiuc of infantile paraiiysis that
is killing so many of the city's children. ae photograph shows a scene at one of the railway stations where
mothers and their children are taking t for places where the scourg' is not prevalent. At the right is Dr.
Havens Emerson, commissioner of hetlth the city, at his desk.
BILL PASSES FOR
157 WAR VESSELS
FOUR DREADNOUGHTS AND FOUR
BATTLE CRUISERS TO BE
BUILT IN 1917.
the building construction program of
the naval bill by a viva voce vote.
It provides for the construction
within three years of 157 war vessels
in all, four dreadnoughts and four bat
tle cruisers to be built next year.
The ships tobe constructed by July
1, 1919, under the Senate program,
follow: e
Battleships1 0; four this year. Bat
tle cruisers, fx; four in 1917. Scout
crulsers, 10 four in 1917. Topedo
boat destro s, 50; 20 in 1917. Fleet
submarines,ine; two now building to I
be completqin 1917; coast subma- I
rines, 58; 3In 1917. o
Other sh) include one submarine 8
with Neff *tem of propulsion, three
fuel ships, 'o ammunition ships, one R
hospital s1, one repair ship, one
transport, o destroyer tenders, one p4
fleet sub ne and two gunboats.
The bil it passed the House pro- a]
vided for tal of 72 ships, with only ce
five capi hips, all battle cruisers. hi
Stream Changed. ac
*New .A new theory to explain PO
the pr of large schools of th
sharks the North Atlantic sea- 1
board iffered by Capt. William thi
Jensen e United Fruit steamship on
Catam which arrived here. He
expres e belief that the gulf .00
strea curved toward the coast to
and th pical fish of every variety tio
soon ound in the waters adja- ev4
cent ng Island. Two hundred aul
miles New York, Captain Jensen wa:
I said, perature oL the water was
S74 d unusually high for that for
. latit Str
gro'
rve Bank Statement. thu
I n.-The total reserve of thu,
I the I reserve system showed a »
- fall of over $23,000,000 in the kill,
4 w g July 14, and the total re- H. 1
0 so ere nearly $8,000,000 less Alal
th revious week. A statement iden
Sby deral Reserve Board today Bl
s total reserve of $400,482,000, the
t urces of $639,649,000 and to. tors,
t g assets of $189,657,000. pel'
out.
a ke Vote Being Taken, crow
s uis.--The Brotherhood of the r
1r ce of Way Employes are the b
n- strike vote against the Mis- The I
1p ciflc railroad following the Th
t ment of John J. Keegan, a full <
' tative of the United States as W
missioner, that he had failed sprin
iforts to mediate the differ. effect
y, etween the brotherhood and
10 ad.
Jace
 any Checks Protested. of in
e ington.--Out of nearly 10,000,- of Mi.
ositors who have maintained Walle
g accounts in national banks, a few
I s been an average of 1,039 pro
checks received daily for the
ree months, an average daily Was
f $141,500, according to figures nounci
comptroller of the currency. recent
afts in all national banks bracin
ted to $6,994,000 on May 12. homa.
LSTI BOMB CAUSES
OUR T AND PANIC
E e~ ILLED AND TWENTY-ONE
E BUILDINGS ARE
tm of
te.
action
,ssels CON ALED IN SUITCASE
i bat
July Blod and Flesh of Victims Scattered
:ram, Aong Spectators-Hundreds of
Persons Were Warned Explo
Bat- sion Would Occur.
Icout
pedo
ileet Sip Francisco.-Five persons were
ig to kill4 and 21 were injured in the ex
ima- ploabn of a timed bomb in the course 8
of apreparedness parade here. It was
rine saidthe dead may number eight.
tree The Grand Army of the Republic
one waseforming at the place where the
one bomb exploded. The veterans ap
one peazed in the parade unperturbed. t
T)e bomb, made of nails, cartridges b
pro- and;dynamite, was placed in a suit e
only case in front ofta saloon before which i
ers. hundreds of persons were crowded. 0
The~building was wrecked and stores
acrtes the street nearly demolished. A
an Perlons, cut, half blinded, ran madly
of through the crowd, and others, panlc
ea. strlken, stumbled over the bodies of i
Im the dead and injured, piling up heaps
lip on de streets.
He Warning that an explosion would gc
ult occur had been sent out by postcards Di
Lst to hundreds of persons. Small atten- re
;ty tion was paid to the cards, although th
(a- every precaution was taken by the VO
ed authorities in policing the right of
en way.
as Veterans of the famous First Call
at forina Volunteers were passing Stuart an
Street when the explosion shook the ter
ground. The blare of bands and the tro
thunder of drum corps drowned the n
)f thunder of the explosion. Flc
a Four men and a small girl were pat
e killed. The dead: William Turnbull, foo
H. Winner, C. Lawler, L. H. Sanborn, ant
s Alameda. The girl has not yet been
t identified.
Blood and flesh, spattered across S
the sidewalk and among the specta- rinm
tors, made a hideous spectacle. Many erei
persons collapsed or fought their way enti
out The police broke through the a h
crowd with their clubs and cordoned The
the place. The building against which hour
the bomb was placed was demolished. star
The parade was not interrupted.
The bomb, concealed in a suit case
full of cartridges, sprayed the crowd BE
as with shrapnel. Dozens of shells New
sprinkled the ground nearby, and the stat(
effective ones did most of the damage. tion
"cau
75 Casee in Mississippi. Jers.
Jackson, Miss.--There are 75 cases Isharl
of infantile paralysis in 26 counties than
of Mississippi, according to Dr. Willis
Walley, state sanitary inspector. Only
a few deaths have occurred.
tive I
Approves New Oil Leases. i an's i
Washington.-Secretary Lane an- rado
nounced approval of oil and gas leases cide
recently disposed of at auction em.r the w
bracing Osage Indian lands in Okla- tion
homa. men."
WILL INVESTIGAT[
BRITISH BLACKLIST
I BRITISH EMBASSY AT WASHING.
* TON IS ASKED FOR 'IN
FORMATION.
ONE
has beehn made the State Depart
ment to the British embassy for in
ISE formation concerning the application
of Great Britain's "trading with the
enemy act" to American business
ered firms and corporations.
)f Facts also are being sought from
the nearly 100 concerns in the United
States which have been placed on the
so-called blacklist under the act. It
was stated officially at the department
rere that the government was preparing to
ex- act in defense of American interests
Irse and that the next step would be to in
vas struct Ambassador Page to request
further information from the British
)lic Foreign Office.
the Minister Van Rappard of the Neth
ap- erlands discussed with Acting Secre
tary Polk Great Britain's so-called
ges blacklist under the "trading with the
ult enemy act." It is understood he was
ich informed that the United States had
ed. come to no definitq conclusion as to
ees the form of action to be taken as the
result of the appearance of nearly 100
ily merican firms on the list. t
e- The Netherlands considers that its
of interests are identical with those of
g the United States and is anxious to
determine what steps the American tl
lid government will take. It is said the
ds Dutch government has made frequent G
,n- representations to Great Britain on d
this subject in the past, without fa- h
vorable results. in
of
- Bandits Muntion Short. c
[. El Paso.-Because of shortage of et
rt ammunition, Villa's bandits fear to at- t.
e tempt a stand against the government a
e troops, which are pressing them hard
,e in the vicinity of Rosario on the Rio
Florida, according to private dis
e patches here. It is said scarcity of
food is handicapping both outlaws er,
and Carranzistas. sy
at
Pitiful Fate of Babe. 15,
s St. Joseph, Mo.-The body of Lo. th
rine ±ye, 18 months old, who wand. the
r ered away from the home of her par.
ents here was found by searchers in drn
a hole in an abandoned brick yard. not
The baby had been dead about 48 to
hours. Indications were that she had to
starved to death. wh<
Stories Are Protested.
Beach Haven, N. J.-Mayors of 10
New Jersey coast resorts issued a sUBi
statement protesting against publica. Leo
tion of stories, which they declare D.
"cause the public to believe the New 1an
Jersey sea coast is infested with fant
sharks, whereas there are no more serb
than any other summer. bilit
Woman's Party Conference.
Washington.-The National Execu- W
tive Committee of the National Worn. o
an's party called a conference at Colob Tea
rado Springs August 10 to 12, "to de woul
cide on measures to be adopted by 0o
the woman's party in the coming elec sona
tion to win national suffrage for we "reas
men." mine
MEXIC N SNIPERS
FIP S AT MILiTlA
MASSACHUSETTS GUAI DSVEN
RETURNED FIRE ACRObS
BORDER.
SNIPERS WERE VILLA MEN
The Sooner the Mfcncans Learn That
They Cainot Si::.e'.' th Impur: ,t/
the Better It Wii 3s for Both
Sides, Says Gen. Bell.
El P'aso. T'exas. -t . n. ls II totsh*d
(1en. (ýtlnzales, c ninu;n dt;t l it l ; t , .inta'r'Z.
that lha, rrport:: ilnd.ir'alld tlh t six out
jaws. Vill;a sylOat hi ers, hav; mhiin
respon~sibl, for I(the rlcetnli t x(hliil._es
o f s h o ut b e t w, ,\ n 1a'ln ts f l i .
tional guarditln i:i thi.s \i"nlI h and
Mexicans south of I lh, front i These
outlaws, Gen Ihll's ilinformlltion sa'td.
have a re(ndezvous oin the Island." a
bit of Mexican territory a few miles
below El Paso. IHe suigestied that
(ien. Gonzales take steps to briak up
the band.
Both (e and en. Ylle and Gin. ( onzales
continued their investigataions of shots
between outposts of t he Ninth Massa
chusetts Infantry and reports that the
At Americans had, crossed into Mexican
territory. During the day the two
commanders exchanged views several
times through Andres Garcia. Mexican
consul at El Paso. with a view to elin
inating the sniping below El Paso.
Gen. Gonzales and Mr. Garcia an
I1T nounced that they had protested to
Gen. Bill against the conduct of the
militiamen, who, they said, crossed in
to Mexican territory in violation of
ING. Mexican rights and shot up without
provocation a number of homes on the
Mexican side of the border.
Gen. Bell said, however, thatV.~)r.
Garcia had communicated with him
iteloe~nd that  did not re
part'te onversatit a"4
in- ture of a protest, but rather a notfn
Ltlon cation that the 'Mexican auhorities
the were willing to co-operate in every
seas way to eliminate possible chances of
friction between the two commanders.
rom Gen. Bell added that Brig.-Gen. Le
ited roy Sweetzer, commanding the Massa
the chusetts troops, reported that the
It Mexicans fired first.
ent In regard to the protest, Gen. Bell
said:
fats "Our men have orders to shoot back
in- when shot at. They will be punished
est if they are guilty of shooting first.
ash But their instructions are to answer
any fire. And the sooner that the
th- Mexicans learn that they cannot snipe
re- with impunity the better it will be for
both sides.
"As to crossing the international
line, if it can be shown that any of
ad our men have done so in defiance of
my orders they will be punished."
heGun. Bell also stated that the Mexi
00 can authorities at Guadalupe had vol
untarily informed him that the two
ts horses and mules taken from Rey
of nolds' ranch, near Fabens, Texas, by
to Mexican thieves, will be returned to
the owner.
ie In his protest to Gen. Bell, Gen.
SGonzales affirmed that no Mexican sol.
diers are stationed in the neighbor
. hood of the island and that he had no
information of outlaws or smugglers
being in that region. Gen. Gonzates
said the judge of letters of the Juarez
court has been assigned to make a
thorough investigation of the shooting
and the reported crossing of Ameri.
can troops.
P. O. to Collect Checks.
S Washington.-To perfect the Fed
eral geserve Board's country-wide
system for collection of bank checks
at par, which went into effect July
15, Pastmaster General Burleson, at
the request of the Reserve Board, au.
thorized all postmasters to receive
checks from federal reserve banks
drawn up on state banks which are
not members of the system, and direct
ed them to make collections. This is
to facilitate collections in places
where there are no member banks.
Gen. Wood Is Sustained.
Washington.-The War Department
sustained the action' of Maj. Gen.
Leonard Wood in ordering Col. Louis
D. uonley and Lieut. Col. John J. Phe
lan of the Sixty-ninth New York In
fantry mustered out of the federal
service on account of physical diear
bility.
Fuel Embargo is Raised.
Washington.-The War Department
notified the Customs Bureau of the
Treasury that the military authorities
would permit the passage into Mexl
co of coal, coke and gasoline in tea
sonable quantities. What constitutes
"reasonable quantities" will be deterv
mined by the army officers.
