§\ o<l<l "Xttrrr * »
/«\ xUVfcssv W
loujlwWJ ' vy \VjV I |
Upp^-T~--^W#r r ffTV'Xf nas^^ai
TWELFTH YEAR. No. 6
eastern excursionists.
LMt Friday evening a party of ex
.arslonists from the middle west, ac
!oßP«nled by Fred VV. Graham, Imml
' non agent of the Great Northern
rtll«»y. arrived in Orovllle in a spec-
UI Bleeper attached to tlie train from
gpokane. on their way to Omak for
the purpose of registering for the Col
ville reservation land drawing. It was
•be Intention of the excursionists to
ronUnue south early Saturday morn
tod arrangements had been made
b» the Commercial Club to take the
members down the valley in autos,
leaving here prior to the departure of
tbe south bound train, catching the
train at Tonasket. This trip was in
tended for the purpose of permitting
da visitors to see the valley under the
Irrigation system. Owing to delays en
route the train arrived very late Fri
day evening, and that delay was te
eponsible for a radical change of plans.
When the train arrived the excurs
ionists were met at the depot by Mayor
j F. Samson, M. K. Bowen and Geo. I.
Cole, members of the hoard of direct
ors of the Irrigation district, Dr. D. H.
Lewis, president of the Commercial
Cluhtnd a delegation of that organiza
tion, nnd escorted to the library bulld
m w here an informal reception was
held.
Dr. Lewis briefly welcomed the visi
tors on behalf of the Commercial Club
la » happy vein, and remarks were
■tde by Mayor Samson, M. K. Bowen,
Qoo, I. Cole and others. By invitation
ttineroua questions were asked by the
visitors relative to the price of land,
the nature of the soil, class of pro
ducts, climate, regulation under the
lystem, showing that they were taking
MHiderable interest in the country
through which they were passing. In
deed, ao much interest was manifested
that an insistent invitation was ex
tended the visitors to remain over in
Orovllle Saturday and an opportunity
would be given them to make a thor
ough Inspection of the country. Mr.
Graham explained that the registra
tion booth at Omak would remain open
evening south bound train would
get them there in ample time to reg
ister. The members of the parly took
a vote on the proposal to remain and
the majority decided In the affirmative.
Saturday morning a large number of
cars were requisitioned and the stran
gers were taken all over the valley
and around Osoyoos lake. They were
given every opportunity to examine
the irrigation system and those tracts
that have been reclaimed by individual
effort. At noon a luncheon was served
the visitors at the Civic League li
brary building. The excursionists made
up of an intelligent and very pleasant
body of ladies and gentlemen, appre
ciated the hospitality and attention ex
tended them by the residents of Oro
vllle, and were sincere and profuse In
their expression of thanks for the re
ception and kindly treatment. The fol
lowing are the names and addresses
of those constituting the party:
J. B. Jolllffe, Rolfe, Iowa; R. R. Me
Corailck, Ursa, Ills,; Daniel J. Swee
ney, Bt. Paul, Minn.; Geo. W. Shivley,
North Manchester, Incl.; M. E. Meln
ik Or*. Ambla, ind.; A, G. SappingfielfT
Walnut Grove, Minn.; Frank H. Baselt,
Chicago, fils,; Joseph Schwartz, Pulas
ki, Wls.; John R, Angle, Courtland,
Kan.; C. E. Harts, Lyons, Kan.; C. T.
laßarre. Waterloo, la.; J. S. Shel
burne, Waklta, Okla.; Ernest H. Josen
bsn», Owasco, Mich.; Ethel Ferguson,
Rolfc, la.; Ina Jolllffe, Rolfe, Iowa;
Lewis A. Pltzer, Waklta, Okla.; Myr
tle Leslie, Chicago. Ills.; B. P. Hatcher,
Shamrock, Texas; Mrs, Elsie Brown,
Chicago. Ills.; C. F. Baker, Chicago.
Ills.; R. H. Meier, Chicago, Ills.; Al
bert Reis, Craig, Ills.; F. W. Graham,
Seattle. Wash.; J. R. Pearson, Chicago.
His.; Wm. McDonald, Chicago, ills.;
Clenn A. McMahan, Springfield. Ohl«;
Joseph Langenberg. Chicago, Ills.: J.
w. Sterrenberg, Gilman, Ills.; W. Y.
DeLee, Newton, Iowa; Oluf J. Dahle.
Renville, Minn,; D. A. Ward, El Passo,
Ills.; P, C. Henny. Cordova, Ills.; Miss
Amy Ward, El Passo, Ills.; Denton
Williams, Ava, Ills,; Geo. L. Martin,
Aurora, Ills.; F. h. Spath, Rochelle,
Jlla.; Dr, Howard Drumm, Muncie,
Ind -: p - Schroeder, Chicago, Ills,
—
County Commissioner Hugh Miller
was a visitor In Orovllle for several
hours Saturday. As soon as the river
reaches a low stage of water men will
e placed at work under the direction
0 Geo. I. Cole bracing up the bridge
across the Okanogan river at the
creamery, which is in such a danger
ous condition that it has been con
emned by the county engineer. The
repairs contemplated will be such as
to make the bridge safe and sound for
•everal years, and by that time the
eountry and town will be in a better
nandal condition to put in a wider
and more substantial structure. The
ridge Is on one of the most generally
raveled highways in the county and a
•rger and better bridge Is very much
needed.
, e a k° vc picture is one of the best views of the Similkameen Falls that has been taken,
the work of that skillful artist, Herbert Gregg. The falls are located a short distance west of
Uroville, creating one one of the best and most easily utilized water powers in the state. At
the falls is located the power plant that recently passed into the hands of Messrs. Sivycr and
Enloe, of Spokane, now operated under the name of the Okanogan Valley Power Company.
SUDDEN DEATH
Saturday, the friends of the gentle
man living in Orovllle were shocked to
learn of the sudden death of A. M. v.
Kacs, of Loomis. According to infor
mation obtainable Mr. v, Kaas suffer
ed a slight stroke of apoplexy Thurs
day last while sitting in front of Rob
ert Gallup's pool room, on Main street.
The stricken man was not altogether
helpless, his left arm and side only,
being slightly numb, but some of his
friends assisted him to his cabin, and
a young man was secured to watch
over and care for him. Mr. v. Kaas ap
parently went to sleep about midnight.
In the morning, the nurse thought his
patient was still sleeping quietly and
proceeded to get his breakfast. About
nine o’clock Chas. Shull dropped in to
see how the sick man was getting
on, and then discovery was made that
death had ensued some time during the
night, evidently without a struggle on
the part of the deceased. The funeral
took place Saturday and was largely
attended.
Mr. V. Kaas was a graduate phar
macist. and came out to Loomis from
Oshkosh, Wis., about ten years ago to
take change of Mrs. Willard’s drug
store. The drug store was soon closed
and for a number of years the deceas
ed has lived a retired life, occasionally
doing work in the county assessor’s
office, he being an excellent desk and
field man. From lack of exercise and
chronic asthma he gradually lost
strength and ambition. He was a man
of considerable weight and his seden
tary life predisposed him for such an
attack as finally occasioned his death.
Van, as he was familiarly known,
was a man of excellent education and
very capable in his profession. Per
sonally of a social, genial, generous
and kindly disposition he made friends
of all with whom he came in contact,
and his death will be sincerely mourn
ed In the little town in which he has
been a familiar figure for so many
years. He was a man of some 50 years
of age. Little was known of his unti
cedents, and he was not given to speak
of his family. He has no relations in
the west, and it is not known what
may have been his family connections
Li the east.
INDIAN LAND SALES.
J. M. Johnson, superintendent of the
Colville Indian agency, sends in a long
list of Indian allotments that are to be
offered for sale to the highest and best
bidder, bids to be opened September
15, and asking that publicity be given
to the sale. L'po.n each of these allot
ments offered to the public is figured
an appraised value, and is is under
stood that the land will not be sold for
less than the appraisement. It is not
likely that many of these allotments
will be sold. In every instance the
land is raw and unimproved, and the
appraisement Is fixed at figures that
are more than the land is worth, more
than similar land in the same neigh
borhood can be purchased for from
private owners. Some years ago, when
there was a demand for land, some al
lotments offered for sale were bid up
to a higher price than they would
bring today, and without taking into
consideration the present selling value
of land, and the meagre demand, the
agent has insisted upon using old
prices as a basis for fixing values for
this sale. We have talked with men
who have invested in this class of land
in former years, and not a single one
of them will file a bid for the lands
advertised in the list just issued.
AN OLD WHIP.
Jack Thorp, of Chesaw, was a visitor
in town last Friday tor ’.he ilrst lime
in many months, Mr. Thorp Is now de
voting his energies to farming, and
we trust is prospering as he deserves.
In the old days, before the railroad
had broken into Okanogan county and
supplied the public with more modern
means of transportation Mr. Thorp
conducted a stage line between Chesaw
and Republic, over whlon the p.jople
of this part of the country traveled to
reach the railroad. That line became
known far and neat on acnoun* of the
expediliousness with which Mr, Thorp
snatched passengers, mail and express
over the route between .he terminals.
His stage became known us the Can
non Hall," and it well deserved the
name. The writer has nung on to the
seat of that stage like grim loath as it
hit the mevated places now and then
between Wauconda and Republic, with
four turbulent and frenzied cayuses
strung out ahead, and Jack sitting
braced in the front seat tickling the
flanks of the leaders with the buck
skin. If we live to round out a century
we will remember those wild rides and
the fervent prayers of thanksgiving
sent uii when our feet struck terra
tlrma. The road is up and down hill,
through heavy timber, crooked as a
rail fence, and the flying steeds would
jerk the old vehicle around sharp
curves so swiftly as to almost snap
one's head off. Occasionally Thorp
would wrap a passenger around a tree,
or idle the outfit into the ditcu, yet
on the whole, considering the chances
taken, there were few casualties. Oue
thing certain, Thorp always got
through on time, unless wrecked, and
as he was one of the jollisst Jehus
pulling leather in the northwest t.hore
was considerable pleasure traveling
with him between the times one'? i.alr
was standing on end.
NEW OFFICERS.
Tuesday evening Oro Chapter East
ern Star was given its chapter, and
the following officers were installed:
Mrs. Estella G. Mendenhall, of Seattle,
state grand worthy matron, assisted b>
Mrs. Kerr and Mrs. Allender of Okano
gan conducting the ceremonies:
Bessie F. Covert, W. M.; 1. M, T.
Williams, W. P.; Sadie M. Neal, Asso
ciate M.; Minnie P. Butler, Sec.; F. C.
Mitchell, Treas.; Ella Colier, Conduct
kss; Iva Klingman Associate Conduc
tive; Nellie Work. Chaplain. Relta
H-ale. Estheh; Viola House, Martha;
Sterrett, Organist; Gertrude Mitchell,
Ada; Aneta Masters, Ruth; Ida
Beale, Esther; Viola House, Martha;
Mettle Williams, Electa; Mary Fer
guson, Warden; Alfred Volegny, Sen
-tnel.
The ball club at Greenwood has been
anxious to get on a game at Orovllle
for some time, and Geo. Bartell came
very near framing up a meeting for
Sunday. When it was found that Char
lie Powell one of the most reliable of
the old players, was too much bunged
up from a round with an automobile
to till his position at third, with other
players scattered and the prospeets of
it costing over a hundred plunks to
finance the game, word was sent to the
British Columbia players that there
was nothing doing. It now looks as
though there would not be a game of
ball played in Orovllle during the seas
on, and that is something that has
never been known since Orovllle first
came Into existence.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ATOM. JULY 28. 1916
The election to vote $50,000 addi
tional bonds in the West Okanogan Val
ley Irrigation district that took place
Saturday may be chronicled as an
unanimous vote in the affirmative, as
only a single negative ballot was cast.
This was the only decision for the land
owners to reach. There is work to be
done to perfect the system requiring
morer money than could be provided
by the original bund issue, and to per
fect the system so that it can fill all
the requirements expected It was
necessary to provide additional means.
U believed that the
amount now appropriated will be suf
ficient under bonding to meet every
ordinary contingency, and the direct
ors are in a position to go on and per
fect the distribuiting system and meet
such expenses as will naturally arise
in conducting the business of the dis
trict. It was a flattering vote of con
fidence on the part of the land owners
in the ability and integrity of the di
rectors, and also a display of willing
ness to bear the additional expense
that all recognize as a necessity in
finishing one of the best irrigation pro
jects in the west.
A NOTE FROM THE SOUTH.
Writing from the Mexican border at
Calexico a member of Company B,
First Washington, says: "Have Jus. re
turned from drill, 8:18 a. in., and it is
very hot already. I could wring water
out of my undershirt. We are through
drilling by the time civilized people are
getting up. After drill, we fall out of
ranks and go to our tents, where most
of us stay, unless called out on detail,
until mess call, in the afternoon many
go over to town and walk around. Most
of the boys are flat as there has been
no pay day as yet, although we have
signed the pay roll and expect to be
paid in a few days. I am glad now that
I came, although at first I felt that 'he
time was being thrown away if there
was to be no active duty. I am going to
do a little washing when I finish this
letter, for there will be inspection to
morrow and we want to be in »lilp
shape. Almost all the fellows do ;heir
own washing. We do our washing in
water pails. Some one has set up a
laundry at the head of the street, but
few are rich enough just now to pat
ronize a laundry when they have the
time on hand to do the washie washle
stunt themselves. Some are of the opin
ion that we will be held here all win
ter. and others are of the Impression
that we will leave soon."
From the number of candidates who
have filed in this county on the repub
lican ticket the voters are going to
have some dll'lculty In making n selec
tion at the piimnries. Now r ail then a
demon at files nls name for an offh.t,
but the- ■ is a backwardness In con ing
forward among democrats this j ear as
few care to riake the sacrifice ot time
and money running for offices they
know they have little chance of secur
ing. One of the great drawbacks about
this rush for office is that a person has
several friends filing for the same of
fice and it works a hardship to make a
selection of candidates.
Buyers are in thre county looking
for horses for the United States army.
As representatives of foreign countries
have hand picked the horse supply in
tliis county during the past year it will
be rather difficult for your Uncle Sam
uel to find horses to mount cavalry and
haul guns, at least in this part of the
country.
FAVORABLE VOTE.
COMBINATION PICNIC.
It is all right to designate it as a
combination picnic as two important
civic organizations are to take part,
the volunteer Are department and the
justly celebrated Orovllle band. The
date fixed for this outing is Sunday,
August 13, and the place, the beautiful
Smith Point, on the always beautiful
Osoyoos lake. The announcement of
the out door gathering at the place se
lected and the centainty that the occas
ion will be one of unadulterated pleas
ure is sufficent to insure the largest
crowd that has ever attended a picnic
in the neighborhood of Orovllle. Plans
have been made whereby automobiles
and motor boats will carry passengers
from and to the grove, or from the
grove to town, at all hours of the day,
and between hours if travelers re
quires. The charge will be 50 cents for
the round trip, and it is worth more,
especially by water. Refreshments and
lunches, including hot coffee, will be
served on the grounds. The band will
furnish the music for the occasion. The
committees having arrangements in
hand will provide water and other
sports, and a programme of events will
be published next week. The picnic is
free as the air to all who desire to par
ticipate, and everybody stands Invited
to attend.
THE STRAIN OVER.
1-ast Saturday was the closing day
of registrations for the Colville Indian
reservation land drawing, and a num
ber of our citizens, who put off the job
until the last minute, motored down or
traveled by train to Omak to take a
hand in the gamble, for it was just a
game of chance, pure and simple. And
it was the element of sporting blood
that exists in almost every individual
that was the incentive that led so many
to travel a long distance to try their
luck. The drawing for selections com
menced at Spokane Thursday, and ev
ery man and woman who registered is
in happy anticipation of a prize. Where
one wins there must be upwards of 50
disappointments, and hence disappoint
ments will be numerous throughput
the country when the final results are
announced. The pleasant side of the
picture is that a vast unpopulated and
virgin territory will soon contain a
large number of people who will be
busy making homes for themselves,
thus adding largely to the assessable
wealth of two counties in which the
reserve is situated, Okanogan and Fer
ry.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Orovllle, Wash
ington July 24, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Beale, Friis and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read. The clerk
reported that a copy of the resolution
passed at the last regular meeting had
been forwarded to the state highway
commission.
The mayor reported to the council
that he had given permission to certain
property owners to obtain material
from certain streets to fill the old well
in front of lot 9, block 49. An ordinance
in regard to licenses for the carrying
on of certain business was read and
discussed and was laid on the table.
On motion council adjourned.
E, R. HOOSE, Clerk.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
services at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon,
“The Perfecting Power of Love.” Ep
worth League at 7 p. m. Preaching
services at 8 p. m. Subject of sermon,
“Casting Stones.” Everybody welcome;
everybody invited; everybody come.
The homelike church and the strangers
friend. W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
at 11 a. m. We invite you to worship
with us.
A. W. BOND. Pastor.
The article on profits in fruit grow
ing published in another column of
this issue was written by an orchardist
of years of experience, in this valley:
too. It would be well for land owners
under the ditch to consider his recom
mendations. It is wise to diversify in
farming, but year after year it has
been satisfactorily demonstrated that
this part of the valley will grow the
very choicest fruits, both large and
small, and that class of fruit always
commands a market. There has never
been a sufficent quantity of small
fruits grown around here to meet the
local demand, and no mistake can be
made in growing small fruits, provid
ed the grower is careful in selecting
the variety. It is not necessary to con
fine one’s self to a single variety of
fruit, where it is grown as a source of
Income. All kinds of fruit do well in
this valley.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
Last Saturday evening Dr. D. H.
Lewis, S. B. Starrett, Jr., cashier ot the
First National Bank of Orovllle, and
G. H, Jackson, steographer, connected
with the same hank, had about as nar
row escape from death as men could
have and live to tell the story, although
to the matter of the story, they have
a very indistinct recollection of how
it happened.
Saturday afternoon Dr. Lewis and
his two companions left in the doctor's
heavy Studebaker three passeuger
runabout for Omak for the purpose of
registering for the land drawing. On
the return trip, about 7 o'clock In the
evening, and some seven utiles south
of Tonasket, tvhile bowling along at a
pretty lively clip, the car struck a soft
spot on a culvert at a curve In the road
and instantly skidded off the culvert
and turned turtle. Indeed the occu
pants of the car insist that the machine
turned over twice. The momentum
carried I he uptipped car some distance
and the occupants underneath were
dragged along the ground in the midst
of the general wreckage, the sand and
gravel rasping off the cuticle and gen
erously distributing cuts and bruises
Henry East who was driving along
in his car on an upper road some dis
tance away, witnessed the accident and
hastened to the relief ot the victims.
Ho found Dr. Lewis almost helpless,
while Mr. Starrett and Mr. Jackson
were dazed and hardly able to gel
about. He loaded the injured men into
Ills car and rushed them into Tonas
ket where Dr. Clough dressed the
wounds, and several of the citizens did
all in their power to aid and relieve the
sufferers. The three disfigured travel
ers took the late evening train from
Wenatchee for home.
Considering the ordeal through
which they passed the gentlemen are
devoutly thankful that they are alive.
Dr. Lewis who was drivng the car,
sustained the most severe Injuries. His
right shoulder was very severely
wrenched and It has given him a great
deal ot pain. Dr. Efner states that two
ribs were fractured also. Besides these
Injuries Dr. Lewis suffered numerous
abrasions about the right side of the
face. His right eye was swollen shut
for a couple of days and even the scalp
was scraped off in one place. While the
side and shoulder causes him the
greatest suffering his facial disfigure
ment presented the moat shocking ap
pearance. Mr. Starrett was bruised
about the body and face, his most se
vere Injury was across the small of
ihe back, as he was bent double when
the skidding car finally came to a
standstill. He was able to limp around
the next day, but still suffered consid
erable pain in the back. Mr. Jackson
escaped with the least Injuries. He had
a cut across the forehead, and suffered
numerous bruises and abrasions, but
was able to be up and around after the
accident.
The car was brought up from the
scene of the accident by W. J. Hoskyn
Monday. Although the top and upper
works are very much of a wreck, with
one of the rear wheels smashed to
kindling wood, the body and engine of
the car are intact, and when a new
wheel was fitted the car ran on its
own power. Fortunately the top was
up at the time of the accident, and
that may account for the escape of the
occupants with their lives.
In a mention made last week in these
columns of a party of Seattle auto ex
cursionists, it was stated that they
were on their way to Vancouver via
Penticton, but after making the run to
that place they ascertained that there
was no passable road to the coast, so
they had to back track on their return
journey home. It was further stated
that A. O. Spencer, of this place, had
driven his car from Oroville to Van
couver last year. That statement was
in a measure incorrect. Mr. Spencer
was in this office Wednesday and said
that formerly there was a wagon road
to the coast from Penticton, but where
it passed through a narrow canyon the
Kettle Kiver railroad had destroyed
that highway and it was necessary for
him to ship his car a distance of 60
miles from Litton to Hope. Our British
Columbia neighbors would do well to
replace that broken link in the high
way to the westward as considerable
auto travel from this side of the line
could be deflected over that route ev
ery summer.
Edwards, the well known Indian cat
tle man, was thrown from a oavuse the
other day and sustained some injuries
that ordinarily would he quite severe
for a man of his age—7s* His left
shoulder was dislocated and his head
badly lascerated. He was brought to
town from the reservation and given
over to the care of Dr. Carmichael, and
is getting along very nicely. Edward
Is one of the old time stock men of the
county and for years ran is cattle on
the ranges In the Loomis and Palmer
Lake country, but lately has been
using reservation ranges for is big
bands.—Okanogan Independent.
11.50 PER TEAK
