itfntittifoft
piitel
to
VOL. 43 FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916. NO. 29
Farmington Pageant a Home-Coming
1 September 12 to 16 u..
Karsch's semi-annual Shoe Sale
THE SAVING EVENT OF THE ENTIRE SEASON
Beginning Saturday, July 29, and Continuing 30 Days
Do not miss this rare opportunity of getting Dependable Footwear at such Low
Prices. Come early and get your choice.
SURE PREVENTIVE OF
HESSIAN FLY PEST
A Practical and Forceful Demonstra
tion Made of Value of Co-Oper-ative
Work in Agriculture
The Logical Candidate to Nomi
nate for Representative
We are pleased to present
to our readers brief comments
on Trof. G. W. Moothart,
Democratic candidate for
Representative of St. Fran
cois County.
Today finds Mr. Moothart
fifty years of age; in the very
prime of vigorous, inteOec
tual manhood; rich in years
of business and professional
experience; endowed with
those worthy traits of exem
plary character, actions and
habits that have endeared
him so much to the students
who have been fortunate to
5me under his instructions.
He is a man of ability,
pleasing personality, affable,
charitable, and courteous at
all times, so that his presence
m our State Legislature
would gain the respect and attent ion of his colleagues and prominent
leaders of that law-making body. Such recognition would enable him
in securing legislation of great importance to his own county, as
well as to the State in general.
He was given the nomination two year ago without contest, and
went down in the Republican landslide with a defeat of only eighty
five votes, but it will be recalled that most of the Democratic ticket
went down from three hundred to nearly six hundred votes. This
fact alone proves his great vote-getting strength, showing that his
Republican students, patrons and friends stood by him loyally, and
will do so again if placed upon the ticket.
Prof Moothart will be thankful for all votes and support given
him at the Primary, August 1, 191 6, and if given the nomination he
says that his election is virtually a foregone conclusion. Farming
ton Times, July 28th.
0-'
Daily Service
Postmaster J. B. Smith has receiv
ed notice from the Postoffice Depart
ment that on August 1, next, a daily
mail service will be put in on Rural
Route No. 5, which is now but a 1 operation will "do things
twice-a-week service.
This will be most wlccome news to
natrons along Route S, as efforts to
secure such daily service has been in
progress for some time past. This is
hut another demonstration of the fact
that properly applied effort and co-
FARMERS OF MISSOURI.
Who of these various candidates for Governor represent the agri
cultural class of Missouri?
Which one of them have you seen around our county and state
fairs, at road meetings, farmers' institutes, hqrsc, jack and cattle
sales?
Which of these men know the needs of this great rural Missouri?
Don't let them "muddy'' the issue. There are false issues in
this campaign.
Houchin knows rural Missouri and her needs.
Houchin's plan for road building is practical and it will build TOO
miles of rock roads in every county of Missouri by using idle con
victs and the automobile tax without adding one dollar of extra
taxation upon any one.
Houchin is against idle clerks, useless departments, nepotism,
and will give you a house-cleaning at Jefferson City if he gets a
chance. There is no fight on Houchin, he will carry the party vote
and a large independent vote. His plan of working convicts on the
roads solves the penitentiary labor problem and organized labor is
for him because it solves a problem that they have been trying for
fifteen years to solve.
HOUCHIN IS A WINNER ; there is no fight on him except
that which has been created by the job hunters and perpetual office
holders, who have tried to make the people of Missouri believe that
Houchin is not in the race for Governor. The large number of
voters who are leaving other candidates and joining the ranks of
Houchin, who they know is a w.nner, is a final denial. Get behind
Houchin and Good Roads. Vote for Houchin and see that your
neighbors vote for him. Houchin will be our next Governor.
LABORING MEN'S HOUCHIN-FOR-GOVERNOR CLUB.
Unpardonable
Negligence
Last Wednesday Linn Clardy was
doing some work with his fine span of
mules on the Clardy lot next to the
Klmwood Orphan Home. He turned
the mules loose in the lot to go to
dinner, and one of them approached
near the wire fence around the lot and
happened to touch one of the wires
with its ear. The mule received a
shock that 'knocked it down and it
was about five minutes before it re
covered and got up. It then touched
its nose to the 'wire fence and re
ceived another shock from which it
was about twenty minutes m recov
ering.
It seemed that a wire from the
Farmington Telephone Company, one
end of which had been detached from
the pole, was thrown across the wire
of the Electric railroad and attached
to the wire fencing, charging the fence
it is estimated with about BOO volts
of electricity. How long the wire has
been in that position is not known,
but it is hard to imagine a more care
less trick on the part of the linemen.
If any person or a child had happened
to come in contact with the wire fence
the result would have been fatal.
The mule was badly damaged and
Mr. Clardy intends to institute suit
for damages against both the tele
phone and Electric railroad companies
Roach Confident
He Will Win
A Gospel Parade
A second gospel parade was held
n Farmington Sunday afternoon, as a
,ide-Iight to the Burke and Hobbs
nestings. About 3S0 men, members
if the recently organized gospel team
were followed by about as many Sun
lay school children. The parade was
headed hy bowers Juvenile Band
starting from the Tabernacle and
marching along eight or ten down
town blocks, back to the Tabernacle.
the parade was witnessed by hun
dreds of people, from all parts of St
Franc lis and adjoining counties, who
were present in great numbers, the
streets being crowded with automo
biles.
Immediately after the parade, the
afternoon meeting began. Then also
was enacted a novel feature. Two
prisoners from the county jail. Hull
and Ross, alleged bootleggers, were
present in company of Deputy Sheriff
uoss. iacd claimed to have received
in outpouring of the Holy Ghost from
listening to the tabernacle services
from their. cell. For a time both woi
seated on the pulpit, and each gave
testim my of their conversion, asking
an interest in the prayers of all good
people, and made a most favorable
Oppression on their heavers by the an-
parr-nt, straightforwardness of thci
confession.
Still Coming
The Times continues to extend sts
wee'-ly visiting list each week. These
invitations have usually come without
solicitation on the part of the man
agement of this paper, which is the
source of greatest appreciation on our
part. The following new subscrip
tions have been added the past week:
Walter Jerrold and W. A. Karsch of
Farmington, Chas. Deitrioh of Route
5, Farmington; Geo. W. Cloud of Flat
River. S. R. Turley of Fairfield. Ala.,
C. W. Sloan of Irondale, Mrs. James
Dunn of Cape Girardeau.
Cornelius Roach, candidate for the
Democratic nomination for Governor
j of Missouri, on the eve of the primary
election, has issued a statement in
which he confidently predicts his nom-
ination.
Mr. Roach says:
Basing my forecast on reports fur
,' nished nie hy friends in all parts of
! Missouri. 1 have no hesitancy in say
, ing that 1 shall be nominated August
' . . . ' l 1 1
ist,. my campaign nas oeen couuucieu
with vifi and thoroughness, and-has
been free from personalities and lack
ing in noise and loud boasting. My
friends have never faltered but firm
ly believe that I shall come under the
wire a winner.
The certainty of my nomination is
apparent to all who have kept in touch
with political conditions. I have a
corps of influential and loyal support
ers in every county and city. My
strength has increased from the start,
due to the active and effective work
of my friends. My support is not
confined to any particular section, but
is general and state-width there being
not a precinct in the State from which
I have not received assurances of sup
port. I am running either first or sec
end everywhere.
My most conservative friends in St.
Louis say that I shall receive from
10,000 to 16,000 votes in that city,
while most of the leaders say that
figure is too low. 1 think I shall car
ry Kansas City by handsome plurality.
The leader of one of my most form
idable opponents in St. Joseph has ad
mitted to me that I shall carry Buch
anan county by a good lead. I believe
that Buchanan will be a landslide for
me. In no section of the State are my
friends more active than in Northwest
Missouri, and there are few, if any,
counties in that section which I shall
not carry, some of them overwhelm
ingly. In Northeast Missouri I shall
be first in several counties and as good
as second in all of them. My candi
dacy is particularly strong in central
Missouri, especially in the big Dem
ocratic counties. From the day I an
nounced many Southeast Missouri
counties have been conceded to me. I
will poll a heavy vote throughout that
section. Southwest Missouri is my
home section. My own county, Jas-po!-,
is one of the largest in the State.
The Chairman of the County Commit
tee and numerous others say I shall
sweep Jasper as nearly solidly as any
candidate ever did. It must not be for
gotten that the Fifteenth Congression
al district casts a heavy Democratic
vote. The same favorable conditions
prevail in Springfield, where earnest
friends assure me I shall get more
vote:; than the combined vote of all my
rivals. 1 shall go up to the big citie'
with more than 23,000 to the good,
and expect to win by a margin of not
less than 30,000.
I find in the counties visited that I
will receive five times as many farmer
votes as any opponent. Everywhere I
have been the last few weeks I find
Democrats who wish party success ir
November are rejecting the candidates
who are regarded as radically "dry"
or radicaly "wet". These Democrats
are a large majority and consider me.
all things considered, as the most
available and most dependable aspir
ant. The need of an experienced man
at the head of State affairs is recog
nized one who has proved his faith
fulness to public trust.
I shall campaign St. Louis and Kan
sas City this week.
The Pageant colors are red and
yellow. Who will be the first to dec
orate?
In view of the almost complete fail
ure of this year's wheat crop, which
is largely due to the Hessian fly
blight, the meetings that are now be
ing held throughout St. Francois
county, among farmers and all others
interested, by Farm Adviser Bert L.
France, is most timely, and should re
sult in great good being done in
spreading information as to the pro
per course to pursue to eliminute this
pest in future.
Mr. France has been exceedingly
fevtunate in fi curing the assistance
cf Prof. Thos. J. Talbert, of tho State
Agricultural College, and the combined
experience unci knowledge of these two
experts on agricultural matters is re
sulting in interesting meetings and
much valuable information being im
parted to all those who attend the vn
rtous meetings, the last of which was
heli! on Wednesday.
While such meetings were often held
at farm homes, this method proved
to be fully as successful as though
they were in school houses or other
public meeting places. While the
meetings were not generally very
largely attended not nearly so large
as they should have' been the interest
exhibited by those in attendance was
always most encouraging. It indi
cates that the mor -ogressive farm
ers are becoming moused to the man
ner in which they arc being held up,
in a most bigh-hiiudcd u.uiiher, .he
heartless IWsian fry.' '
After hearing Prof. Talbert discuss
the manner cf handling this greedy
little outlaw, one is forced to the
conclusion that the manner of elimi
nating it is right in time with improv
ed farming methods, and that while
eliminating the fly, they will, at the
same time have their ground in pro
per condition for better and more ex
tensive yields of grain. In other
words, the best possible farming
means the elimination of the Hessian
fly pest, with the single added observ
ance of the fly-free date for wheat
sowing, which in this locality is Oct.
12th, or as soon thereafter as possible
but not later than Oct. 20th.
The essense of Prof. Talbert's talks
to farmers is contained in the follow
ing four lines, which should be com
mitted to memory, by every farmer,
especially by every wheat sower:
Plow early; plow deep;
Destroy all voluntary wheat;
Sow on the fly-free date;
And don't fail to co-operate.
Prof. Talbert is not only thorough
ly acquainted with the "family tree",
life and habits of all insect pests, but
he appears to have at least a passing
biblical acquaintance, as he frequently
quotes the following, for the origin of
which, we believe, Solomon is held re
sponsible: "The wise man foresceth
the evil and hideth himself, but the
foolish pass on and arc punished."
He also stands pat on the proposition
that if the suggestions in t!iL above
couplet are adherred to there will be
little or no trouble from the Hessian
fly next year, and that, with the run
of the seasons, your wheat yield will
be very materially increased.
. And now, before closing, just a
word in regard to the exceptional
work that is being done by Farm Ad
viser Bert L. France, in regard to
improving the farm conditions in St.
Francois county. In the first place, he
is one of the busiest men in the coun
ty, working incessantly, for the good
of the farmer, and he works in a sys
tematic manner, m as to produce the
greatest rvtuins JV. the' Wort put
forth. The Times deeply regrets to
say that all the farmers in the coun
ty are evidently not co-operating with
him in his work for their own inter
ests, which is most regrettable. But
with the assistance of those who now
realize the splendid advantage to them
of the work he is doing, the opposi
tion to his laudable efforts must rap
idly disappear. His salary comes out
of the county salary fund, and is not
costing anyone an additional cent. Al
so, if there is an official in St. Fran
cois county earning his salary, Bert
France is earning his.
Why Not Better j Splendid Speech
Mail Service ?j by J. A. Houchin
What the South would welcome is a
fleet of Deutschlands big enough to
carry 2,000,000 hales of cotton to Germany.
The mail service for Farmington ap
pears to be growing worse, day by
day. Why such service should be ret
rograding it is hard to say, and it
does seem strange that Uncle Sam
should permit his business to be thus
trifled with. St. Louis mail arrives at
DeLassus each morning not later than
7 o'clock, and yet it is often 10 or 11
o'clock before such mail is transferred
to Farmington, a distance of a mile
and a half. Is it not time that remon
strance was being made over such in
terminable delay? Even the daily
papers often appear to be rather stale
before they reach here.
What has become of the Commer
cial Club? It appears that it would
be right and proper for that organi
zation to take up this matter and see
if something cannot be done in order
to straighten out the kinks in he mai
service. We notice that different or
ganizations in St. Louis are making
an effort to secure a number more fast
mail trains out of that city, but fast
mail trains would fail to help Farm
ington, so long as the mail bags for
this city are permitted to lay at De
Lassus for hours, with no attempt to
deliver them to their destination.
If the Commercial Club of this city
will take no action to put Farmington
in the map, then would it not be well
for sonic of the enterprising citizens
'.o get together and adopt resolutions,
eciting the facts in the case as they
low exist, and forward them to the
'"ostofflce Department at Washington ?
The general understanding is tha
Uncle Sam does not want his mail
service interrupted in such manner
Is the proposition worth a trial, o:
ihall we continue to sit (ftiictly o'
iur haunches, cuss and discuss its
management, and absolutely refuse to
aise a hand to correct such abus.
'hat is evidently within our power to
orrect? The ouestion i.-, now up tc
the citizens of Farmington for an answer.
LAULESS REAGAN
Walter E. Lauless of St. Louis aat
Miss Irene Reagan, of Iron Mountain
were married July 17. 1916, at the
Methodist Church in Ironton. They
left at once for St. Louis where theyj
will make their home, the groom hav- j
ing a good position there. Their
friends wish them much happiness.
Hon. Jas. A. Houchin, candidute for
the Democratic gubernatorial nomi
nation in Missouri, spoke Monday af
ternoon from the band stand on the
court house square, to a goodly gath
ering of voters, and created a most
favorable impression upon all who
heard him. It was the first opportuni
ty many of our citizens had enjoyed
of seeing or hearing Mr. Houchin, and
the idea was quite general that while
he was a business man of merit, he
was not a puhlica speaker. But ids
talk here Monday created quite a
different impression. He had a mes
sage for them, which he delivered In
an impressive and convincing manner,
as though he was thoroughly and ab
solutely in earnest. He spoke some
what rapidly, but was never at the
slightest loss for a word.
He vehemently denounced the spirit
of gross extravagance that has been
constantly creeping into every de
nartment of state, and stated that if
he was elected Governor he would put
the padlock on all such desks, and see
that all such useless positions were
stricken from the State's payrolls. In
fact, he indicated that what this State
now stood mostly in need of was a
business man at the head of affairs,
and that if he were elected there
would not be another of his family on
the State's payroll.
He also appeared as a "good roads
"rank," and his expressed thoughts in
'hat regard indicated that he has
splendid ideas in regard to road build
ng. while, at the same time, they are
more or less original. He portrayed a
plan whereby the State could be inter
lined with permanent good roads,
three times across every county in
this commonwealth, without tho addi
tion of a cent of taxes to the taxpay
ers. His idea was to build good roads
from automobile taxes, which this
year will be sufficient to establish a
sinking fund and keep up interest on
a $10,000,000 bond issue for that pur
pose. He thought the present genera
tion were entitled to good roads, and
that their building should not be put
off until the people now living are
dead. His speech was full of vim,
vitality and sound business logic, and
made a very favorable impression on
his hearers. He left immediately af
ter speaking in an automobile fr a
speaking trip through the Lead Belt,
