VOLUME XV.
NUMBER 4
The testing of milk for the but- woods to the turmoil of the great
ter fat was made at Warren & Exchange in thia city in the year
Co, store Saturday by the. 'expert 1916, bat I would rather be back on
operator, , Several lots of milk the farm than to hear the yells and
and cream were brought in. To erowls of the bulla and bears here all
------ T ...
our, mind there is not enough the time.
surplus milk near Here for the Walking down Wall street, past the
business to be very collossal. United States Sub-Treasury, on the
There is a home demand fqr milk site of which, on June 30, 1739,
arid butter in Selmer at satisfac- George Washington took the oath as
tory ' prices. Cow feed is too first president of the United States, I
high to make.it profitable to sell turned to the right into Beaver street
-surplus butter and milk. We I and soon came to an immense build-
truet, however, that there will be ing on a corner with a clock over the
,enpugh of that to increase the entrance and a sign which read "THE
business of shipping the cream NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE."
to the creamery at Meridian, The fat doorkeeper, who spoke with
Miss.. . where . it is shipped to a etrong German accent." told me to
from points on the M, & 6. rail- go around to the side ' entrance; only
road. '" members were allowed to go in at
front. The loud voices of men, evi
dently engaged in some sort of excit
ing business, came from within. I
We have been frequently asked had the good fortune to know Captain
why the Independent does not Meyer, a retired Belgian sea captain,
ffive mts readers more jnforma- who is head ' clerk for Morris H
tion about the Constitutional Con- Rothschild, one of the foremost brok
venuon capiat oe voiea on hi ine erg m the business, ana so 1 nad no
August electliW.There are so trouble it) getting in,; Mr. Rothschild
many reasons, that we cannot (they pronounce it Rote-sTijlled) is a
give them all. , tall, handsome man of about my
It is enough to know that any (a little past 50) and of frank, easy
. A. 1 - 1j l- - it I . . . .
organic state law aiter more man manners one would naraiy expect in
Jorty years, will tail to meet trie surroundings like that, where most
a .1 M . J . . J I . . - . . .
.aemanas oi mausines, ueveiop- men become hard as carbon steel in a
ments and, discoveries, - which figurative, Sense, the . tickers were
.come to" a progressive people, in going under their little glass bells,
this advanced age, Our present the tape slowly winding out giving
The Constitutional Convention
11 A-
Goming
Mr. Perkins will deliver three lectures at
Selmer August 15, 1 6i 1 7; 1 9 1 G
Under the auspices of his old McNairy friends and everybody . in .Selmer and vicinity
Admission 25tror50c for the Three Lectures
A Rich, Racy and Intellectual Treat in Store for
constitution was adopted when
the state was not out of its death
throes from the war. Progress
and industry had not then as
sumed vitality. ' v
Among hundreds of things
which should be changed is that
of grand juries only when called
by the court to investigate great
criminal cases. A substitute
should be a county attorney whn
would file informations after in
vestigating all the facts. Abol
ish the attorney general's office
and each county have its attorney
on a fixed salary. - .
The governornor should not
have7 a veto ovenuled by less
than a two-thirds vote, : and
should have a right to veto a
Dart of any bill and approve the
other. t. ;...
The'; constitution should be
the fluctuations of the cotton market
from the "pit" below where all that
"hollering" was coming from,' and
Capt. Meyer in neat figures was en
tering the results on a big blackboard
in columns which were headed by the
names of the month traded in. The
prices were a little below 13 cents,
there being 100 points for every cent,
so that every minute or two the
prices would come "12.85, 12.90,1
12.94," etc. The months farthest
away, such as December and January,
showed the highest prices.,
Mr. Rothschild took me down to
the floor of tlia CotUn- Exchange- it
self, right to the "pit," a place where
few newspaper men are ever allowed
to penetrate, for so many of them
misrepresent the facts they pick up.
The noisy calls of the brokers and
their clerks were deafening. They
were gathered inside a sort of raised
$1125
Round
Trip
N.
C.
Over
& ST.
t-4
Ry.
MEM
-Jackson To -
PHIS A'uT
2
Changed so that three-fourths of ring, consisting of a few circular
the time of the. legislature would steps forming a ring perhaps thirty
not be taken up in passing and feet in diameter. In the center were
trading irf private bills. The leg- clerks taking down the orders to buy
islatlire should have the right to and Beli which were shouted by the
impose or release taxes where men to each other at the tops of their
the best interests of the state voices. It was no job for a man with
demand it Counties should have coid.v I could hear "July 80," "De
. . . tii .
jew districts, a provision snuuiu cember 137," etc.; ; hoarse roars
be. made to get rid of corrupt mingled with sharp yells, some, f el-
official without impeachment at (0W8 spitting out their orders with
sucn great cost. . , i sharp lumps and waving their arms
There are many more things wildly. Around the walls, elevated
which only a constitutional con- above the floor, sat clerks on plat-
vention can accomplish.; When
ratified it is the concrete voice
of the people. l r
NEW-YORK
forms with chalk pencils writing down
the orders and prices. How they
caught all those orders, and how any
body could understand anybody relse
at all, in that indescribable hubbub,
was more than I could imagine, but it
was evident that everything .was go
ing like clock work, and every man
'd i-ii-4 X x JUiv. 4 knew just what he was about.
ti .. -
, ; Kr, Rothschild . introduced mo to
I have often intended to tell your Mr. Shutt, vice-president of the Cot
readeri something about how the ton Exchange, a tall, wiry, very white
erot financial heart of the nation eompiexioned man of Scotch appear
looks while beating here, and to, de- ance, about sixty years, old. I to'd
cribe scenea in the itock market, him about yoer paper, and about the
but it was not until to-day that I got cotton interests there, and . if . I had
a first hand view of the business, been the special representative of the
Even then it was only a peep at an London Times or New York Herald,
institution that is a sort of a world in would not have been more courteous-
itaelf and there is far more to be told ly treated. Mr. Shutt took me around
than I can tell about it. v and showed me how every week day
' To-day it was a great New York morning, weather maps and detailed
Cotton Exchange that I looked into, weather reports from, 'all over the
As it is cotton, more than any other cotton belt wre received from the
commodity, that interests the majori- G verument. A minute scientific
ty of your readers, western Tennessee study is made of all these, together
. beine distinctly a cotton . country, witn reporis oi receipts anu genera
they will perhaps read this account of movement of cotton at all the princi-
' "the real thing" with some interest, pal ports of the world, and every
for this is by all odds the greatest other feature that could have any
cotton market in the world. I learned possible bearing on the crop or stock
. nt lVi Enhance that New on hand. I was informed that there
York bandies practically three times
as much cottoii (that is, in the specu
lative market) as New Orleans, and
when thay get an order down there
for ten thousand bales or over it has
to come here to be executed. Forty
years ago I bond and picked cotton
(to a certain extent) on my father's
farm near old Purdy . It was a far
" ' Tickets will be sold only for Train Leaving Jackson at 12:3S pm. RETURNING, tickets will be
good on any regular train until and including train leaving Memphis at 12:40 p. ra., Thursday, August
3, 1916. .. W. LUCKMAN, AGENT; N. C. & & St. L. Ry., Jackson, Tenn.
was no guesswork or arbitrary meth
od of fixing prices, but that they are
governed by actual conditions and
prospects, and by the probabilities and
conditions of supply and demand. I
asked Mr. Shutt just how prices were
determined on the Exchange. He
said:
"When the market opens, at ten
cry from that peaceful neck of the o'clock, all reports and other informa
tion in regard to stock or coming
crop having been studied and digest
ed, the brokers begin buying and sell
ing for their clients. Conditions may
have been such at the opening this
morning as to justify me in v offering
13 cents for December cotton. We
will suppose that it closed at 3 o'clock
yesterday at 12.90. That means that
it is up ten points. Itf is just like
any other business transaction; those
whor are buying- wish to get their
stock as cheaply as possible, and those
who are selling wish to get the top
price. There is nothing underhanded
or secret about it; anybody can un
derstand how it is done. We appy
scientific information, derived from
the United States government or any
other reliable source, to actual mar
ket conditions, and the farmer has us
to thank for standardizing and steady
ing the market so that what his cot
ton brings is the result of the appli
cation of exact scientific methods and
accurate business information."
Just then a messenger said some
thing to Mr. Shutt, and he hurried
away to the "pit," and l was intro
duced to Mr. Hubbard, one of the
oldest and most successful 'traders
there, an elderly gentleman with
Kindly eje, navmg a twrnxie ever so
shrewd, and with a handshake like
that of a Hardshell Baptist preacher
Unlike others I spoke with, he thinks
farmers should plant more cotton
The vast cotton fields of India and
other foreign lands are far away from
transportation, and the same applies
to Eastern Turkestan. ' in Russia.
which was considered, like Egypt,
competitor of this country in cotton
growing, He pins his faith to the
southern United States as the source
of cotton for all time to come. Mr
Rothschild, on the simple proposition
that the fewer bales there are on the
market the more they will bring, be
lieves in curtailing the output, &nd he
is regarded as one of the shrewdest
men in the business.
It being the noon hour, the noise in
the ring had somewaat subsided, but
it still sounded more or less like an
Irish wake, although I was informed
that that was but a gentle zephyr
compared with the storm of noise
raging at times, when 100 men or
more are in the "pit" and a million or
more bales are changing hands in
day. The amount dealt in to-day on
the Exchange was about 300,000
bales.
Leaving the clamorous group at
the "pit,' we ascended to an upper
floor of the great building where the
samples of the various grades of cot
ton established by the United States
Denartment of Agriculture are kept
under etric't watoh by careful and ex
perienced men. Few outsiders ever
see- the inside' of that room. The
samples, in pads about six inches
eqaure, six pads to a box, were placed
on tables where I could see them.
hey are used for grading and com
paring samples brought in for that
purpose, and being the-government
standard each box is stamped with
the great seal and inscribed with the
signature, of the Secretary of Agri
culture himself, and no one in allowed
to touch the 'samples. '
This department is in charge of Mr.
Miliett, a very pleasant gentleman
who knows a great , deal about Ten
nessee and hat been with cotton all
his life. Nine grades of cotton have
been established by the Government,
beginning with a beautiful, white
int, usually the first of the crop be
fore it has been weathered, known as
Middling Fair. That is the best.
Next in order come: Strict Good Mid
dling, Good Middling, Strict Middling,
Middling (the grade upon which con
tract prices are fixed), Strict Low
Middling, Low Middling, Strict Good
Ordinary and Good Ordinary. Any
thing lower than the last is not de
liverable on New York contracts,
although two other grades, Yellow
Stained and Blue Stained, of their own
grading, were on exhibition. The
yellow staining comes from ' early
frosts, and.it is better than the blue
stained grade", which is very hard to
do anything "with.. Manager Miliett
showed me some cotton raised in
Arizona from Egyptian seed, , and he
made the remark that foreign seed
soon loses its character when planted
in this country, showing that soil and
climate have a predominant influence
on the character of the staple.- Be
fore leaving this very interesting de
partment, I was shown electric lights
which had their rays sifted through a
peculiar glass giving the light almost
the exact power of the actinic snn
ray, which is a very useful thing on
dark days for detetmining grades by
color, .- - ' t i:
Mr. Rothschild, who is a descendant
of the famous capitalists of - that
name, who are among the richest men
in the world (the name means "red
shield," from the device which they
used to place over their ' doors) took
me into his private office, which was
plainly but beautifully furnished.
Much of his life was spent in or about
Woodville, Mississippi, where he has
controlled and grown as much as
8,000 bales of cotton. He has 'been
a broker here for six years. He ex
piafned his method of doing business
as follows: "On booking an order for
cotton (nothing less than 100 bales
being accepted), he has received am
ple margin from the customer to pro
tect him against fluctuation. Mr.
Rothschild works only on commission,
which is $20 for buying and selling.
These purchases and sales are made
for future delivery, and the price is
naturally subject to many rises and
falls. The customer has the right to
dispose of his purchases or sales be
fore maturity by giving an order to
his broker to sell or buy a like amount
in the market for his account."
. I learned from other sources that it
takes about $300 to'get in on a deal for
100 bales, that amount of money cov
ering sixty points. If a man "sells''
and the market goes up, he has to
increase his margin ' if he wants to
keep in the market; if it goes down,
he makes money. If he has bought,
just the opposite is the case.
I found that some brokers thought
the making of peace in Europe would
run cott away up, and others claimed
just the opposite on the ground that
Europe is pretty well bankrupted and
couldn't do much with cotton if she
had it. Nevertheless, I noticed that
even rumors of peace negotiations
caused the market to rise. The price
of cotton in Hamburg, Germany, is
said to be fifty cents now. .The prices
are determined somewhat by the
market reports from Liverpool, bu
their Exchange over there closes by
10:30 of our time, so that thera is
only a bare half hour to study the
market. . " ' - " ,
Efforts have been made to pass
laws curbing these operations In
futures, but they seem indispensable
to present methods of doing business,
and will be extremely hard to do away
with. Something else will be invent
ed if futures are suppressed, and the
game business will go on.' j '
I left these pleasant, brainy gentle"
men. The noise of tickers and the
shouts of the buyers and the sellers
in the pit" faded away as I walked
out an the street among the hurrying
crowds, while over on another street
the distant roarings of the curb
market could ; be heard, Ureat is
modern finance, and New York is its
citadel. ' ' ' ' "
V"' Lindsay S. Perkins.
Rubbing Eases Pain
Rubbing sends the liniment
tingling through the flesh and
quickly Hop pain. Demand a
liniment that you can rub with.
The befSt rubbing liniment ia
Hi T.
itr- Irrtiyrif nriir M"i
Live Wire Reductions
In the Semi-Annual Clearance of
Gish's Clothes
No other shop can touch the values nor come within
a mile of the selections
Men's $20.00 Suits
Men's $18.00 Suits
Men's $15.00 Suits
Men's $10.00 and $12.50 Suita..
$8.50 Palm Beach Suits..
.$14.95
$12.45
$10.95 ; '
..$ 7.95
.$ 495
Men's Low Shoes Reduced Twenty Per Cent
Women's Low Shoes Cut Half in Two
Chas. H. Gish
Corlrxtli, Aliss.
(3j E3SiJ
JACK KERBY.
irEaggassiii
EARL INGRAM.
i
m
Hi
m
KERBY & INGRAM
TUBULAR WELL: DRILLERS
; AND DEALERS IN
0151
If
Farm Water Systems
I ELECTRIC LIGHT PUNTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
Fairbanks-Morse and Southern
; Gasoline and Coal OH Engines : :
WE GIVE YOU A SQUARE DEAL
, PHONE 26, BETHEL SPRINGS, TENNESSEE
J KiSIJ K: J KZijKZ.J 6CS3IJ ScZ'&y.'&
1USTMG
Gad for the Ailments of
Horses, Mules, Cattle, Etc.
Qood for your own AchesX
Pains, Rheumatism, Sprain,
Cuts, Burns, Etc
25c 50c $1. , At U DcW "
The Wise Saying of a
Great Business Man
When you get a good customer strive to keep him, but
when you get a bad one strive to keep yourself. The Mc
Caskey System will help you to this end. The desirable cus
tomer will appreciate and is really entitled to an itemized
statement of his account with each purchase. The Mer
chant can furnish it to him with no extra cost or labor with
the McCaskey System. The undesirable customer don't
want to know, neither does ha want his merchant to know
what he owes. The McCaskey System keeps both posted.
Take the wise saying of the great business man; keep
your good customer by furnishing him with an itemized state
ment of his account. Keep yourself fronT the clutches of
your bad customer by keeping yourself posted.
The McCaskey Register
' will do th'is; why not buy one?
