Ulrile IIHIrtrlfiiil Nonlely"
Ooiit in liln M".
fjnmt
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1916.-10 PAGES.
NUMBER 13.
MADE THEM WELCOME.
Tuesday, of this week, A. W. Van
Olmp was the genial, comrnnlonnble
host to lil comrade of Me)cr Tost,
at the humc of his daughter and hus
band. .Mr. and Mn. W. II. Alklre. on
Tuesday, July 15, 1916, the occasion
being the Judge's TSth lilrlhday, nml
while lie hat had hi share of the up
nnd down, of lite In thete jears, he In
enjoying niot excellent health nnd n
strong mental poise. He I nctcr an
Idle innn: he generally finds some,
thin for hand or brain to do, ntd It
even now looking nfter commercial
Interests nl Forlescuo. nml get
nrotind quite lively to rell )on n hind
er, etc.
Mr. VnnCnmp In one of those splen
did old gentlemen with whom It In a
pleasure to meet, nnd one lit even
benefitted by crion.il contact with
him: A man of broad Information,
keen Intellect, nnd n sttong personal
Jty: you ever part company with him
with regret nnd when he goes to leave
your presence, )ou Irresistibly say:
"Stay n while longer. Van."
A. W. VnnCnmp was horn In Fnlr
view. Krle county, Pennsylvania, July
.j. 1S38. lie wan educated nt the old
(llrnrd college of that state and grad
uated In civil engineering nnd navies
Hon In 1S38. He then worked on hit
father's farm nnd taught school until
the coming on of the Civil war, nnd
on April 15, ISfil, he enlisted under
Lincoln's first cnll. nnd on August 13,
1861, he re-enllstcd for three years, be
ing enrolled ns a member of the $3d
Pennsylvania Infantry. Mr. VanCamp
nlso had three brothers In the t'nlon
army: .Saunders I-., now aged "6, re
' Kldlng nt llentou Harbor, Midi.; he
left n leg nt licit) shurg, ns a member
?,f '.!".. ,,5,h l'iH)Innla Infantry:
Ilevll H lirr.ton Hnrbor. 15dth Petin
)lvnnln Infantry, nged C8: Orlando I).,
of the lMti, l'cnnt)ltnnla Infnntry.
now deceased. Nelson (1 who Is still
living nnd resides nt (llrnrd; he Is the
"kid" of the family nml wu mo joung
to be enlisted. A. WW regiment was
also engaged In the battle of Gettys
burg. Ills, regiment was of the Army
of the Potomac, nnd participated In
the bailies of Malt em Hill, Freder
icksburg nnd other fnmous engage,
ments of the Civil war.
Mr. VanCamp wns discharged from
the nrmy in 1864, nnd he wns nt once
stricken with the western fever, and
lie enme west, going to Vlrglnln City,
Montann, where he Hied mining, hut
no spon tired of this, nnd In I860, he
came to Missouri nnd bought a little
farm down near Lake Contrary, nnd
here he farmed a while nnd here he
met Susan A., daughter of Saunders
M. Howard, a farmer In Hint section,
nnd they were married bectulwr ST,
J!??- Mr- VanCamp died April 81,
1901. There were nine children born
to them: those surviving are: Mrs.
John n. Mlnton and Charles O. of
rortcscito; Mrs. W'. If. Alklre of Ore
gon: Mrs. Harvey Chlldt, of Kxodus
district.
Mr. VanCamp quit farm life and en
gaged In the dry goods and grocery
business In St, Joseph. .Sixth and
Jackson streets, until 1873, when he
became the manager of the Smith.
Zakcr & Swope lumber business of
St. Joseph.
In 18T5 Mr. VnnCnmp planted his
Jncoh'a stntf in Holt county, and here,
with Hoods nnd droughts, good, bad
nnd Indifferent, he made It pay by
sticking close to the' rich alluvial soli
of the Missouri bottoms, which In time
has landed him on Kaiy street. He
nrai tocatea at tlie Hooka Mill, now
Fortcscuc, and helped to clear the
great forests In that section, being
Identified with Jacob Hook In the .
mill business until 1879, when he
oougni a sawmill on Little Tarklo,
whero he lived until the death of his
wife. He cleared and put Into culti
vation his large land holdings, and
these farms today aro among the best
to be found along the Missouri river
bottom. Dividing tho greater portion
of his lands among his children, he
has, alnco the death of his wife, made
bit home with his son, Charles O., the
greater portion of his time.
In order to keep from rusting out,
he la member of the mercantile firm
of Howard & Co., at Fortescue, and
li president of the Dank of Forescue.
He has taken an active part In furth
ering the drainage system of that sec
tion, bending every effort to reclaim
the bottom sections of that part of our
county, ana nas Been one or the super
visor of the Squaw Creek drainage
canal since ita organisation.
He served for many years as treas
urer of the Farmers' Mutual Injur
nee Company.
Ho wai mndo a Master Mason at Al
blon, Pa., in 1859, nnd Is one of tho
very oldest Master Masons of the
county, and is nlso chapter member
of that order. r
He served as a member of the coun
ty court, 1891-93. Our illustration
shows thn four VanCamp brothers,
the subject of our sketch being the
third from the left.
Mltlu.l Hunt.
tinthor of fill nlil Icsldrnts I r.'J
.i .iii ftWf.v. tllo'.liei' Mlrl.ncl IluiiJ
6 hern In WuttcnbcrR, Oennnny.
S'l.tr ilicr II, tfr.'S. He enme to tv
x l with his patent In Novinl.cr,
l.'0. The family located In Cnlllcoon,
.illlvnn count-, New Voik, nml here
"I'e hey of e!glit jcnis grew to limn
heml. helping- to ii.nintnln the family.
Oi.il liVjsctl him with n will tn work,
r.r.il jtnve Itftn good hcnlth, the two
th r.vs necessary to success In life.
Ii Apill, 1S5S, he iv.ntrleil Margaret
lla'ttir.rdl. To this union seven dill
'lien were botn. She died Mnrch I,
lh'1. In 1870, lie with his family
novel to lln't county. Mo., locating
mi n farm, which he putchnsol nenr
New Point. In the spring of '71 he
roM this fmm, nml become the owner
hoy sMorm:i:i:i in a cavimn.
Clctin l.i mar SiiRoialcd While nl l'l.i
Younger Itrotlirr lictltci!.
Till'. VANCAMP IIKOTIIi:i(S
.eft to right! Nedrnw, of Krle, Pa.; Hen, of llenlnn Harbor, Mlch.t A.
of Holt count); Sam, of llrnton Harder, Mich.
W.,
Iiml been trnnsncteil, I). P. Dobyns,
for the Post congratulated .Mr. nn
Cnmp on teaching his TMh lilitlulny,
with n few well chosen icmatks,
which rnuseil Mr. YnnCamn to re
spond, hut owing to something Ret
urn: cmsttn)'i In his throat he spoke
brlelly, lr;t one could see Hint he was
deeply mroctcil, nnd he showed It in
every tvny ns he took Ills sent. F. li.
Morgan nnd W. I). I.ukens nlso spokf.
The guest tveie then led to Hie
dining room hy the kindly host, nnd
n ench old vetetnn pnsscd In they
were hnmueil with n souvenir, n lnp"l
slftnllnr line pinned to the lapel by
Miss Inez Allelic. Miss Nell Mlnton
nml Mrs. II. U Kvctsnn. Theses la
dle. nssNtnl .Mis. Alklre In serving
nml In ninny tvnys that helped much
n maxirg me ociosion n tery t.nppy
one.
There were eighteen old veternns nt
the tnhle, who ttcie grneloridy serve!
by Mrs. Alklie nnd her nlils with n
most nnltitnhle two-course luncheon.
The Post inemhers nrnsc nnd extended
their thanks to their romtnde. A. W.
VnnCnnip. Mr. nnd Mrs. Alklre nml
nlds, the Post's three times thiee s.n
" ite extended them, nnd the following
mstvcicd toll cn'l;
A. W". VnnCnmp. 8?.l Po. Inf.
K. M. Norris, '.'.'d Iowa Inf.
Wm. Tiirnhnm, 4th M. S. M. Cav.
K. S. Mortian, 1st Po. Cnv.
Itodi-rt Montgomery. 'J'.'d Ky. Inf.
I). P. Pohyns, 40th Mn. Inf.
(,. W. Cummins, 04 tit Ohio' Inf.
Daniel Znchnian, K'.'d Ohio Inf.
Hnnlcl Kunkel, 4th M. S. M. Cav.
John Jones, Kith Iowa Inf.
Jacob Markt, 4th M. S. M. Cav.
W. II. Honlinan. fl4th Ohio Inf.
II. V. Morgan. Kith Ind. Inf.
T. C. Fuller. 83d Intl. Inf.
W. M. Morris. 4:td Mo. Inf.
Jacob King, 4:M Mn. Inf.
V. I). I.ukens, SOtli Ohio Inf.
Counly Sclmol Nole.
.Mr. Ouy Ilninctt, of the .Missouri
University AKrlcutturnl College, lias
been selected to tnkc chnree of the
AiTilcult'irc nml Science department
of the hlgli school In Conol!dnled Dis
trict, No. I. I.nst Sntunlny nfternoon,
the county superintendent, tnklnjr
with her Mr. Thntcher nnd Mr. Har
nett, motoieil, with I'rnr.k tireen n(
tho wheel, to Consolidated District,
No. I. The pnrtv pnrtook of n mott
delicious fried chicken supper with
Mr. nml Mrs. I-nnc Painter. In their
lovely new leslilcncc. which Is modern
In every pnitlciilnr. Mrs. .Murphy, Mrt
Thatcher nml Mr. Ilnmrtt met tvltl
the school linnrd, nnd p'nnned the
wort: of the romlm; year. There will
no ilouM be nn enrollment of nt leat
2.1 students. The faculty is n stronK,
one. nml the curriculum ottcicd to
thee studetit everything Hint could
be I'eslti'd. The 'l-yent' course will
Include Kngllrh, History. I.lterntuie,
I.ntln, Algebin. tieometry, Commer
clnl Arlthemetic nnd Agriculture.
From Inst y nr the people of the dis
trict know tl'itt in Mr. Tlmtrher they
MICIIAKI. 1IUNZ.
A very liti-c-fi-lnjf necident occulted
W'r.liie.dP' nfternion, July IP, which
cost the life of (llenn I.emnr, son of
.Mr. nnd .Mis. J. I!. I.eirnr, nml nenily
lillled the victim' little brother, For
rest. Six of the I.emnr Imys hnd been
h"lnir torn In n field nlont? the lllr
Tnrkio ditch, nnd hod stepped for a
diint lest. They dug n cave Into the
bnnk, nml Olcnn nnd Forrest tveie in
side this rnve. when the sandy soil
nbove cninibled off nml burled them.
The other boys lininedintely began to
dig into the sand with their hois, but
were unable to mnke nny progrc, nt
the snnd continued to crumble. After
ii few minutes they inn to the house
nml told their mother of the nceldent.
Mr. I.emnr ttns nt the home of Andy
liner, two miles nwny, nt the time, but
Mis. I.emnr phoned for him to come
home r.t once, nml nlso called Dr. J,
M. Pnvls, fioni Craig.
Within n short time, both the boys
Mind been tnken from the snnd, but
(llenn tvn dead tthen he wns found.
Jnn.es (ilcnn t.cnmr ttns horn Do-
comber !, I'.MiJ. nml lived on the fmm
Mi'ithttpst of Cinltt with Ids patents
nil Ms life, lie I- survived by Mr. and
Mrs. i.enmr and by nine brothers, lie
ttns the fouith son.
' Several months ngo, he ttn con
I vetted and Joined the Cinlg Piesby
tcrlnn rhiirrh. He llted a faithful nml
consistent I'hrlsllnn life, nnd the little
fellow wn Invnl by nil who knew
him.
Tlie fimeinl services were conducted
nt tint l'l.t.tivf i-rlnn rltnlrli. t'l-i.lnv
niorniiii;, by I It v. I!. 1'. Ciwley, nnd
tlie leiiinlns tteie Ittlil to irst in the
new Cmlg I. O. (). P. cemetery.
ciatj; t.imier, July -l.
FPOM THE MEXICAN BORDER.
f the farm In the Woodvllle district.
( be lived entll Ills denth. July
19, 1910. In 1R7 he married Mist
u.l.i jessou. She ditd April 4, lhil.
ills iluuuhters llvetl with lilni, and
t ink rare of the house until they en
ii i-iil homes of their own. For the
-ast elghtien yenis, the fnther tins
ilteil alone, feeling that PinviiUtice
. ..... V.i ,e na. Ir.il Ii nt imrt f "'".'.""K ""' "' '! .
i... .i,...i i. ;. i. ;VVi.Vr i... iiotner nunr. was ronveiiiii wneii
? nrf.t b ndl ' nrw- i n.n blnrk l CllUrVll. Oil COUll.lg to Ollgon. he
ffieW'ld '1
oi miicn lie wan u iniioiiii int-ini-i'i
Soclel).
Misses Atbettn ami 'ini-a limpg
riltei tallied the "I'udge C'jotiil,"
Thuisdn.v ufteiiioon, July 'jn, in honor
of Mir. C. W. Cleiin. Ilridge ttnt
ilnyiil at two tables. .Mis. tilenn
i'ail)ing olf the prize for the highest
irore. A two-course luncheon ttns
set veil.
ment of the school, n well as a large.
up-to-date encycinpeitia.
Ilovs nnd untM M ,lntl, cmtrlliutlnK llU-rnViy
f-.-tt,i.;..i m.i.i.t v.. -Jf viiumi nun iieiii-vim-in muses,
trlrls of tonsollilatcd District, No. Min.,.. itin... .....t ..iir.-rlm,. he
1 t'fttl II.-A In fl I -. ...r- ...... ......... j, , . .
I relo re with vou that vou live in n
Consolidated District that has pro
vided for you high school advantage.'
ami privileges iiiual to the best In the
other parts of tlie county, "The ie
crention pnrt" I not to he ncglecti-d
tennis, ns well as basket ball, will
he played. Mrs. Murphy ami tho par
ty were further entertained In the
hospitable home of Mis. Horn Ken-
fifth, and treated to a splendid break-
The luncheon disposed of "the hoys" rM of fried chicken nnd the thing
passed in line, extending the "glad that go with It.
hand" to the ladles, and Mrs. Alklre . T.p ........ .,,., lnt..n.l-nt has been
2T he '. LT Piir' L'K mI taklnB .Icturci. of several or the
Thrul, cLX nT A L' ft school houses. I wish the teocherH
3-1 ti e ..'.i An,rricn' .and school bonrd memlM-r ttould
Then the partimr came. ,nnk n .,,. . . , .,,,,,.
All these meellngs of Meyer Post and ash idles next year he made In the
are hnppy and enjoyable ones, but',var 0f the building Instead of nt tho
none more so than the one with the r( front door. One of my best plrtuie
o il comrade. A. W. VanCamp, on Ills l, siiollcd by a large heap of cinder
rath birthday, July 25, 1U10.
I'riscllla Farewell Part).
Mrs. J, U llognn and Mrs. Kmma
Kmerson Rave a farewell in the form
of a porch party, Friday evening of
last week, at the homo of the former,
for Kdlth Iloyd, who left Saturday
for Colorado, in view of Improving her
health. To make the journey more
pleasant, eacli one wtotc Kdlth a train
letter to be read nt different hour
and places enroute. After pleasant
evening the party enjoyed refresh
ments at the llcnnlnger Ice cream
parlors.
Those nrescnt were: Medamei
Conrad, Martin, Kreck, llcnnlnger,
Kmerson, Hogan. and Misses Mar
garet and Kdlth Iloyd, Hazel Patter
son, tiueiin ituiatt, uess Meyer, Etta
Greene.
which has a prominent place in tho
foieground.
Teachers' examination at .Mound
City, August 4 and Ii, Friday and Sat
urday, AI.I1KKTA CKKKN-MUUPIIY,
County .Superintendent.
Dies In Colorado.
J. K. Itlley, formerly n resident of
Maitlaml. a son of v. T. Itlley, one
of the old settlers of Clay township,
died at his home near Holyoke, Colo
rado, July 10, at the age ot 65 yeau.
The body was brought to Maltlnnd,
whero funeral services were held fioni
the Christian church, on Friday, July
21, conducted by Kldcr Harlan, pastor
of that church. The Interment was In
the I. O. O. F. ctmetcry, at Graham.
Ills half-brother, James Itlley, of
this city, attended tho funeral.
never wns impatient, but trusted Cod
to carry mm satciy mime.
He fenves to mourn hi loss two
sons and six daughters, Kdwanl ami
Philip. Mrs. Mary Kurtz, Mrs. Minnie
i'euerhacher and Mrs. Julia Maikt, all
of Oregon; Mrs. Kate Carter, of In
Rlcwood, California; Mrs, Lizzie
Knenle, of Maitlaml, Mo.; and Mrs.
Anna Hook, of WJIIhlncr, Kansas. He
also leaves one brother. Gust., of
Mound City, Mo., and -7 grandchil
dren and 1- Rreat-Riamlchlldren.
Funeral services tteie conilucttd
by Itev. W. I.. Meyer, assisted by
Key. T. D. Huberts, Interment was
In the Grove church cemetery.
Ilest.
Ilest! how sweet the sound. It I
melody to my ears!
It lie a reviving coidlal at my heait,
And f i oin thence send foitli lively
t-pirits.
Which bent tlitough all the pulse of
my soul!
Ilest! Not a the stono that rots on
earth,
Nor a the flesh shall rest In tlie Rrnve,
nor sum a lest a the carnal world
desires.
O, blessed test, when we rest, not
day and night, saying
Holy, holy, Lord God AlmMity;
When we shall rest from sin, but not
from worship;
From suffering and sorrow, but not
from joy. W. I M.
o
Mrs. W. W. Daw Mm entertained at
sis o'clock dinner, 'lliurnlny evening,
July 2(1, In honor of Mis. S. It. t III,
hunl uml Mrs. F. I- Crnmpton, of
Kansas City. Covers tveie laid for
Mr. Hlhbniil, Mrs. Crnmpton, Mrs. C.
D. 7ook, Mil llonnle Urodheck. Mrs.
J. J. Kayhlll, Mrs. Susan liussell and
.nr. ami .mi, tt. tv. imtvson.
Friday nfternoon, July 'Jl. Miss
Dale Zeller cntcttalncd the "Fudge
Cinw.l." The afternoon ttns spent d.i
log fancy work nnd in nn nlibfnshion
i'd visit. Delightful icfreshments
were served.
To Hugh liicliards and wife, a
daughter wo born, July L'4.
Harold Itostock is back home
from Hastings, Nebraska, where ho I
carpentering. He came back because,
he Is laid up for repairs, having his
hand badly cut with a chisel.
The Anderson Will.
Mr. lU-hecca Anderson, who illiil
July .'I, I'.iin, executed her will Octo
ber -;i. r.m.i, wiiicii wa witnessed ny
Ciwr J. Hunt and Sol O. Zarhmnti.
She named Alexander Vnnllusklrk a
i the executor. The document was tiled
Thursday of last week. July 'JO, The
win wa wiiiicn ny juugo joint ivcn
illlsll.
' ller first beiucst I $5,000 to tier
biother. Jiime K. Cummin. To the
rhllilren of her brother and sister,
ciou enriij in inu cniiuren oi ner nus
hand' brother ami sisters, J 1 0(1 each;
SIOU eacli to S. F. O'Fallnn and a
.daughter-in-law. Mr. Hetta Ander
'son; tho latter died a few months ago,
To her son. David Cummins Ander-
son, whose lesl.letice I unknown to
her, the sum of $10,000. .Should ho
not appear within ten years, or that
'it be asceitulned that he I dead, with
in that time, then this bequest of
7111,11011 sunn nc pai.t to ner grand
children. ,
I lie resume. inciuiiuiL- res nenee. ii
bequeathed to her two grandchildren,
.iii'iki- nniierson, oi icvcianii, unio,
and Mr. Caroline Anderson-WuUun,
oi ixnins, unto. 7
George Lease and son, Floyd, of
near i-oricscuc, were in Oregon, last
week. Wo acknowledge, a pleasant
can.
Tho homo of Mr. nnd Mr. Alklre
wuh opened to tho old comrades, and
every featuro told of the cordial nnd
generous welcome extended to them
on till occasion. Old Glory was
thrown to tho breeze, and ns tho com
miles approached, they were greeted
under it fold by their host, nnd es
corted Into tho home: hero tliey were
greeted by Mr. Alklre and .laugh
ter, Miss Inez, nnd the host' grand
daughter, Mls Nello Mlnton, of For
tescuc, who hnd como to nid her nunt
witli the affairs of the pleasing occa
sion. Mr. VnnCamn hod with him every
mark that Indicated that he was a
really happy man, and. nothing was
left, undone on his part and on tho
part of Mrs. Alkire and her aids to
make the occasion a very happy and
enjoyable 'ono for tho guests.
After 'the regular order of the Tost
News Snapshots
Of the Week
l' L- l '
M 1 i- . rvc.i csBTSQlwMoiLfaiuni;itfsiaoHBlkiim
Ilcnchlns positions commanding the Hungarian plain, general llruslloff threatened to disturb the entire Teuton lino frotn.ihe.
Baltic to ltoimianla, whllo In the Sonime region Urttlsh and French made Important gain. After a stormy Journey through both
houses (ho rural credits bill at last reached President Wilson for slguliiK. Justice John II. Clarke of CleveUnd whs .nnotiited to
tho United States supremo court. As aom-iilatluil ran Mali In Ihn rlimiees. nt llm Hiiliaea linns n.ni,nhi.nj hnml
again, tho second liner, Bremen, was hourly exjiected to arrive. Mrs. Hughe will accompany her husband on a campaign tour of the west. After being denied,
entrance Into tho country, Crtono" Castro, former president of Venezuela, wna permitted to land. "Golden Utile" Warden Osborne (torn Brown) was. web1
corned back to Slug Slug by the prisoners. New Jersey officials used dynamite In trying to exterminate sharks. Soldiers searched Mexicans on border for arms, .
Lieutenant Mum, of Co. L, Vritea
Entertainingly ol Camp Life.
Camp MIsourl. l.-iudo, Texat July
21. To begin with, It Is raining, but
gently We hate Just passed through
n set ere dust storm, which lasted
nbout 45 minutes, anil tou could not
distinguish an obj.cl thirty f.-et from
) on, and or course eterthlng has to tin
dusted after It Is oti r. I know I mint
hate looked like n centipede when It
was over, although the eaptnln and" t
laid down and sit pi while It wa onV;
After we bad our lint fixed f this was
our day off) nnd most of the' boys,
were over at the fort buying nltX;'
nacka with their canteen books, which
are bring Issued
The bo)s bile seem tery well istlt
fl.d, with some few exception', and
all are healthy Of course, we Imvo
to go through a series of vaccination
for t)phus nnd smallpox, which has n
tendency of making us slrk, I now
hate two sore nrtns, ns my smallpox
vaccination made a large sore, which
Is now- getting well,
This Is a great country, nnd n far
as value Is concern, d and I am con
cerned, the Mexicans can have It, and
they do hate most of It, a there It
tery few white people here, What I
mean, Is American, nnd Spanish
there are no white people, it we all
look like Mexicans when we nr.- here
n short time i:ir.Mhlnc thr.t km'
ciias. i:. MI.'NN,
First Lieut' .tnnt Co. I., 4th Mo. Keg.
down here tins a thorn on It. and I
really belicVe that H is the same way
with thn people, ns some one nikeil
me why these people stn)ed here and
I told them that the people weie like
the tegetntlon, sticker, You do not
see much here to make )ou think
there is trouble, at no one starts any
thing and coniiiiuetilly we hate no
excitement outside of camp life, Tell
Tom I buckled on my pistol and load
ed up with leteral rounds of ammu
nition and went down the river to took
for "Indian Itellcs." as these hills aro
covered with flint. Only found a few
specimens, as I could not gt-t over
n 'great deal of territory, but made
twelve miles that day, and the ther
mometer standing about 110. but wo
are getting used to the sun. Tho
water In my canteen was almost warm
enough to boll eggs.
You seo farms In cultivation of one.
fourth to one acre and they are Just
getting their corn and other grains
planted, ns this Is the rainy season,
nnd It had not rained for eleven
months, until nfter we came.
Ilun across some goat herder In the
hills nil aro Mexicans ntid seem
peaceable enough. Don't think I
should be afraid to prance around
across the border, but the regulars
say to stay out.
I bad a little circumstance on the
International bridge the day nfter I
landed, nnd since Hint time they won't
let the men In uniform go on tbe
bridge, so, as my wife sa), stay on
your side of the high board fence un
til Uncle Sammy says go, and It seem
as If we had enough soldiers at tarcdo
to capture Mexico City If we should
get the orders.
The New- Hampshire boys landed
the 19th. Had the pleasure of meet
ing the officers at our officers' school.
Wo have plenty of army trucks ot all
descriptions, pontoon bridges, cavalry,
machine gun companies, artillery com
panies, wagon trains, and all I can
see lacking Is we have no aero squad
ron here, and It seems It we only had
one It would help.
Company I. Is detailed to sleep on
Its limit tonight, and we were under
arm.i last night from "reveille to
taps." sixty rounds of ammunition per
man, hut with tho exception of an oc
casional accidental dlschargo ot a gun
when some picket guard makes up
somu "coqk.aha bull story," which
happened one night in the Third regi
ment, but 'I 'wns officer ot the guard
and tho guard said that they had
turned a search light on the camp
from thn hllM. but I happened to be
within abAVhy.iOO yards when ho shot,
nnd I reWhwt lo tho colonel that an
auto caOroSylitr the hill nnd fright
ened the UggtJXnnd ho let his gun
go off in tnT excitement. These are
only a few things to break tho monot
ony. Am going to try und get a permit
to see tho four Mexicans hung, hero
soon do not know when ono 'of the
Mexicans to hang tvus n pisjoc n,nd
was educated at 8prlngfleld,'Mo. '
Well, It la almost tlmo to get 'the
men under anno, and Issue 'ammuni
tion, so I will have to bid you all
goodby for tsUs time. . X.
x sure, very truly, . w
FIKflTxiilEUT. C, E. MUN'N
Co. l, ttn.'inttrN. a, v. h.-imo.)
Dr. W. C. Proud, of SL Josenh.
was in Oregon, Sunday last, visiting
nis mower ana outer relatives.
r ( I
