BARRE DAILY
rm
11
MES
VOL. XX NO. 114.
IIAltKK. VKlt.MOXT, FItlDAV, JULY 28, 1910.
l'lUCE, OXK CEXT.
TH
E
DELVILLE WOOD
NOW IN HANDS
OF BRITISH
Famous Brantlcnberg Reg
giment Was Driven Ou
m . . s .a a
or tne t ortincations in
Heaviest Shell Fire Ever
Concentrated, According
to the Computation in Lon
don
IMPORTANT PROGRESS
IN SOMME REGION
It is Estimated That Three
Shells a Minute Fell On
Every Yard of the 1000
Yard Front -of the Del
ville Wood, Even the Gun
ners Themselves Were
Amazed
London, July 28. The British troop
have captured Delville wood in its en
tirety, the British statement to-day an
nounced. This German position in the
Somme region had been defended bv tlci
Brandenbcrg regiment which was driven
out.
The British put on Delville wood the
heaviest concentration of shell fire in a
given area ever directed against field
fortifications. Even the gunners were
amazed when they computed its volume
per minute in preparing the way for the
infantry. Counting the front a thousand
yards, there must have been three shells
a minute falling on every yard.
TAKES ALL THE BLAME.
Vice-President Hatch of Orange, N.
Bank Anilines It.
J
RUSSIANS ACTIVE
ON FRENCH FRONT
Newark. X. J., July 'in.-Full respon
sibility fur the collapse of the Mutual
Trut company of Orange, N. J.i which
was closed Monday by Mat banking
Hut liont i. wan assumed late yesterday
by Edwin II. Hatch, vice president of the
institution "nd wild to b one of the
(urgent stockholders.
The crash, he said, reulted from the
overrertiflcation of a t-U.niM) deposit to
10 time that amount -.'00,1)00.
Hatch' statement, issued from a sick
bed, followed the arrest of himself and
Thomas S. Hyrne, secretary treasurer of
the hank, lhe latter previously had ml
mitted, according to the authorities, that
he had a part in the alleged conspiracy,
hut asserted hi act was not prompted
by a desire for personal gain, but by the
belief that he was saving the bank.
The warrants charge Hatch and Byrne
jointly with conspiracy to defraud the
hank out of $.'IOfi.OiO.
Although he had known since early
morning that he vm to le arrested, the
police found Byrne working with the
bank examiners, giving thein such infor
mation a he could, it was said.
Hatch about ft vear ago bought out
the interest In the institution held by
former I'nited State Senator James
Smith, jr., of Xewuk. Wednesday Hatch
and his wife tiled a mortgage on which
hev apparently borrowed f ,')0,:1IH) on their
home.
Hatch has for 16 vears been treasurer
of X. W. lialscy A Co., a Xew York and
Chicago bonding house.
Byrne, as treasurer of the trust com
pany, m alleged to have allowed luitcli
o borrow $340,0M) without adequate col-
aterul. It is charged, according to the
prosecutor, that Hatch, with deposits in
the bank of only .14,m0, induced Byrne
issue him certificates for the loan,
hich he hypothecated in Xew York.
Bvrne was held in $25,000 bail and
Mitch was placed under guard at his
home in Maplewood, X. J., where he is
convalescing from an operation for ap
endicitis.
The bank is one of the largest of its
ind in northern New Jersey with d
posits totalling nearly $1,150,000,
DENY BREMEN
IS CAPTURED
MORE VER.MONTERS GOING.
Naval Department at Otta
wa Contradicted Sensa
tional Story
THAT GERMAN SHIP
IS BEING TOWED IN
Report Said the Vessel Was
Being Taken Into Halifax
Harbor
CAME FROM BERMUDA.
Cleared German Trenches at Auberive
in Champagne and Took Some Pris
oner German Attack at Lihons
Stopped by French Fire.
Paris, July 28. Russians reconnoiter
ing at Auberive in Champagne, says the
French statement, have penetrated Or
man trenches and cleared them with
hand grenades. The. Russians took some
prisoners.
The German attempt to attack near
Lihons was arrested by the French m
fantry fire. On the rieht bank of the
Jleuse in the Verdun region the German
preparations to attack the Thiautnonfe
works were stopped by artillery fire. Two
German aeroplanes have been shot down
in the Somnie region.
RUSSIANS MOVE
FURTHER IN EAST
Have Made Progress in Region of the
River Slonevka and the River Bot
darovka in Southern Volhynia;
Also the Caucasus Army.
Petrograd, July 28. Russian troops
continue to advance successfully against
the Teutons in the region of the river
Slonevka and the river Botdarovka in
southern Volhynia, the Russian state
ment announces. The Russian Caucasus
army continues to advance. .
SERBIANS ATTACKING
THE BULGARIANS
Have Already Occupied Series of Heights
and are Maintaining Positions De
spite Artillery Fire.
Paris, July 28. The Serbian force
have begun an offensive against the Bui
garians in Greece, according to a Havas
dispatch from Saloniki. The Serbians
have occupied a series of heights and
are maintaining their positions despite
tne artillery hre ot the Bulgarians.
BRITISH SEA CAPTAIN
WAS SHOT TO DEATH
German Naval Court Found Him Guilty
of Attempting to Ram a German Sub
marine Just Before His Vessel Was
Captured By German Destroyers.
Present Heat Wave is the Worst in 15
Years.
Washington, D. ('., July 28. A "Ber
muda high" is the official cause of tne
worst heat wave that has enveloped the
country in 15 years. That means that
n great area of high pressure air, mob
ilized in the Atlantic off Bermuda, has
now let go its full power from the sea
board to the Rocky mountains.
For weeks it has stood like a solid
wall against heated currents trying vain
ly to move out from the interior over
the ocean, and now as it swirls rapidly
Oflawa, July 28,- The naval depart
ment to-day denied the story that the
Bremen was captured.
Portland, Me., July 28. A telegram
conveying the information that the sub
marine Bremen bad been captured and
was being towed into Halifax was re
ceived here to-day from a Canadian
source which was supposed to be re
liable. Xew York, July 28. Another circum
stantial report regarding the Bremen is
that the ship has been captured by Brit
ish patrolling squadron and : tied up in
the northwest arm of Halifax harbor.
The report was contained in a lefcter
from Canadian officials to business men
here.
WAITING FOR THE BREMEN,
Deutschland Apparently Has Everything
in Readiness.
Baltimore, Md., July 28. With
clearance papers for the submarine
freighter Deutschland in his possession
and with everything apparently in read
iness for the vessel's departure, Capt.
Faul Kocnig is waiting, it is believed, for
news from another submarine-sea vessel,
the Bremen,
An indication that the homeward
bound submarine may ' put into some
cover down the Chesapeake bay to await
an opportune time to make a dash out
of the capes, is the quantity of coal
stored on the after deck' of the tug
Three Companies Will Be Sent to Eagl
Pass Soon,
Burlington, July 28. A machine gun
eoiany, a supply company and a regt
ment supply company have been organ
ized by Adjutant General Lee H. Tillot
son, head of the state militia, in accord
a nee with the requirements of the fed
eral army reorganisation act of June 3
The work was just finished lately, an
in the opinion of the adjutant general
the companies will lie transferred to the
Mexican front within nine or ten da vs.
A provisional company of about 150 men
under the command of Captain E. W
Gibson of Brattleboro haa been formei
out of the remnants over and above tli
full quota of men requisite. Mr. Tillot
son said he thought the present move
ment about Mexico would not lie ended
for a year yet,
I he organization of the three compa
nies hasn't come as suddenly as seems to
be true on the surface, but preparations
were under way for some time before
the work could be finished. The cavalry
was disbanded and these men, 175 in a
were merge.l with the infantry. They
are responsible for the overplus of men
from which the provisional company was
lormeil. All hut xo w ho were discharged
are now enrolled and do service. Prill is
going on regularly every day under the
direction of (.apt. nird S. Hyland of
Rutland, commanding officer i and the
adjutant general has been at the camp
for a month past keeping in touch witn
Washington and offering his help in the
new work. Tho order recognizing the
three new companies arrived from the
capital only recently, and the order to
entrain for the front is expected soon
though how soon is not sure.
Tho machine gun company consists of
tour commissioned otbeers and 53 en
listed men. Its organization is different
from that of the ordinary infantry com
pany. Jhere is a captain, a first lieu
tenant and two second lieutenants; one
sergeant, one mesa sergeant, supply ser
geant, stable sergeant, horscshoer, who
has the rank of sergeant, and five plain,
ordinary sergeants; six corporals, tTo
cooks, one mechanic, two buglers, eight
privates of the first class and 24 privates.
George E. Carpenter of Montpelier, for
merly a major in the ordnance depart
ment, is captain of this company. He
is the only officer in the camp. The oth-
ers are at the front serving in their old
or like capacities.
The headquarters company is a little
different. It consists of a captain, who is
the regular adjutant. Captain Charles
X. Barber of Barre is the captain. There
is a regiment sergeant major, three bat
talian first sergeants and two color ser
geants, besides a sergeant bugler, a band
AUSTRIA MAY
GRANT RIGHT
To Americans to Ship Relief
Supplies to the
, Poles
ASSURANCES ARE
GIVEN INFORMALLY
President Wilson Appealed
Personally to Vienna
Government
THE DEFENSE
No Action Taken in Behalf
of Sir Roger Casement
To-day .
Washington, July 28. Informal as
urances that Austria Hungary is dis
posed to respond favorably to the presi
dent's jcrsonaI appeal for permission for
hipments of American relief supplies
to the Poles in the territory held by the
Austrian forces have been given person-
lly by Foreign Minister Burian to Am
bassador Ten field.
The state department also received
from Ambassador Page the British for
eign office statement of England's wil-
ngness to permit importations of food
tuffs into Poland to be administered by
commission appointed by Wilson pro
ided that the German-Austrians occupy
iig armies would not seize or remove t he
products of the occupied territory. This
ondition, it is feared, may block nego
ations.
HEAD SQUEEZED BY STONES. A Q A M Hf. M
Frank Bombard Received Injury in jnDMIlLUll
Stoneshed.
An ambulance and two doctors re
sponded to an emergency rail at the
Preshrey-Co kendall plant in the Willey
street meadow yesterday atternoon,
when Frank Bombard, au elderly lumper
living at 7 Central street, received in
juries that may prove very series. Mr
Bombard was working in the mam cc
turn of the shed where the saw is lu
ested and was dodging a stoi traveling
under the crane when his foot slipped.
Almost instantly the stone brought up
against the man's head and for the nio
yicnt it was squeezed between two pieces
f L-ranile. Other workmen hurried to
his sssistance and Supt. Frank I). Snr
tell wa one of the first to reach bis
idc. Blood was streaming from both
ears and the shock caused the lumper to
lose consciousness.
Alert "hello" girls at the telephone
central expedited the work of assembling
Ir. J. W. Stewart and William JWc
Farland and the I'errv it Xoonan om-
ulance on the stoneshed premises pud
Mr. Bombard was removed to his home,
being transferred later to the City hos
pital. He recovered consciousness befoie
leaving the meadow and as the afternoon
wore on his condition did not seem so se
rious as at first
WHEN COURT MET
FOR POSSIBLE APPEAL
If There Was Anv Co .n-
plated Action Itr- v si
Given Up
RYING TO UNIONIZE
STREET CAR MEN
IN NEW YORK CITY
National Organization is at Work While
Employes in Some of the Subur
ban Districts are On Strike.
Xew York, July 28. The national or
ganization of street railway employes to
day continued its efforts to unionize all
motormen and conductors in Xew York
the accident did not cause apprehension
among the physicians, but the? fiow of
bl'Wid from both ears was taken as ml
unfavorable symptom and it was re
marked that very often such a symptom
indicates a skull fracture. In the case
of Bombard, it is thought that the skull
fracture, if such exists, must have de
veloped near the base of the brain. When
asked concerning the gravity of the ac
cident, tho doctors said they preferred
to reserve decision until they had hr.d
an opportunity to examine the man s
condition to-day.
London, July 28. W the court of
criminal appeals met ay to hear the
Outward marks of possible application m-Jhalf of Sir Rog
er Casement it was found that the de
fense had abandoned any contemplated
action.
along it is gathering heat and moisture Thomas F. Timmins, which will tow the
trom the tropics ana sweeping mem
northward over the continent into the
vacuum of so-called "low pressure area."
Xo relief is promised from the phenom
ena which in the east haa caused swel
tering city dwellers to light fires in their
homes to dry out the humidity, or which
in the Mississippi valley is threatening
to destroy millions of dollars' worth of
food crops. Chief forecaster Jranken-
field said yesterday that the heat wave
only had begun. It is certain to con
tinue through the week and probably
longer. Xone of the conditions essen
tial to a break-up are vet evident.
HUGHES AT SUMMER HOME.
Returns from New York to Write Speech
of Acceptance.
Bridgehampton, June 28. Charles E
Hughes returned last night 'from Xew
York to his summer home here to com
plete his speech of acceptance and some
of the campaign speeches on which he
has been working during the past two
weeks. Mr. Hughes will remain here un
til July 31, when the ceremony of noti
fication will be held in Xew York.
The itinerary of the trip to the Pacific
coast upon which Mr. Hughes will start
from Xew xork August 5 probably will
be announced in Xew York Saturday by
National Ihurmtn W. K. Willcox. It
is understood Ir. Hughes will spend sev
eral days in Y'ellowstone Xational park
and perhaps a day or so in the Yosemite
alley, dividing the vacation between the
two places. This has not been deter
mined finally, however.
RUSSIANS CHECKED.
Berlin. July 2S. Captain Charles Fry-
am of the steamship I'ruesels, which ves-
el was captured by Herman destroyers
last month and taken to Zeebruggee, has
been executed iy shifting after trial be
fore the Hernun naval court. The mar
tinl death sentence was parsed because
of the captain a alleged action in attempt
ing to ram a Herman submarine.
Captain Fryam admitted that lie fol
lowed the British admiralty instructions.
BRITISH ATTACK BROKE DOWN
Berlin
Report Says Fooreaox
Movement Failed.
Wood
Berlin. July 28. Strong British at
tacks ajrainst German positions in Four
ram wood in the .Somme region bn'ke
down under rerun a fire, the German
headquarters announces.
Attacks by Two Army Corps Failed to
Advance, Reports Berlin.
Berlin, July 28. Attacks by two Ru.
an corps on GoTtian positions east of
Gorodisehe in the Baranovichi region
were delivered yesterday but failed to
gain ground, the war office states. The
battle is etill in progress.
ITALIANS ALSO WIN.
Deutschland. This is in large sacks,
possibly 100 of them. With her bunk
ers full and this additional supply, the
Timmins could stand by the underaeas
boat for several days.
The Deutschland continued her tests
yesterday behind the barricade of barges
that is augumented by screens of bur
lap to prevent even the briefest peep at
the green hulk. 1 he, waters outsiue her
slip were covered with oil thrown olf iu
her submerging operations
Those on board the interned Xortii
German Lloyd steamer Xeckar on tho
other side of the Dcutschland's slip evi
dently were having a good time last
night. The vessel was brilliantly light
ed and strains of lively music floated
over the water.
no a j: - i - Mi"v
u , 'nc.uain urum major jcit Aft d of rjoti th
OFFICIAL DENIAL MADE.
That British Warships Visited Chesa
peake Bay.
Xorfolk, Va., July 28. Official denial
by the British embassy at Washington
that a British cruiser recently has visit
ed Chesapeake bay was received in si
lence by naval officials yesterday, but
from other sources it was learned that
there was no disposition on the part of
any of the men on the battleship Louisi
ana who reported that they saw a ship
which signalled "English cruiser" to
change their stories. ,
STRANGE CRAFT CAME IN.
Have Gained Additional Ground in Dol
omites Region.
Rome, July 28. Additional ground has
been gained by the Italians in the Dolo
mites region, the war office announces.
SWISS IN PROTEST.
Do Not Take Kindly to German and Aus
trian Blacklisting.
Lausanne, Switzerland, July 28. A
strong protest against blacklisting of
Swiss firms by Germany and Austria has
been made by the Lausanne Gazette.
Items of Interest.
Horseback riding is to be introduced
into the sport curriculum at Welleslev
college in the fall. Already 3H5 girls
have signed up as in favor of the move.
Mrs. Clara Tippett, one of Boston's
best known resident musicians, died on
Monday at the Massachusetts Ken eral
hospitaL Her father was a pupil of
Mendelssohn, the composer, ami Mrs
Tippett studied both in America and
London under the best known teachers
At the Old South church in Copley square
she was a long time soprano soloist.
John Hamilton Brown, who died Mon
day at his home in West Hoboken, X. J.,
at the age of 79 years, was the inventor
of the eesrmental wire-wound pun. At
the age of 20 be made by hand tarpet
nftee which rtUiled for ?110 each. The
chief feature of the wire-wound gun was
Later It Was Identified as Norwegiaa
Tramp Steamer.
Xew York, July 28. After persistent
reports had been circulated here for two
days that the German submarine nicr-
hantman Bremen had arrived off Sandy
Hook some excitement was caused last
night by the appearance in the lower
bay of a small vessel of "low visibiL-ty."
The craft which, when first seen, was
lying so low in the water it was barely
iscernible, was the Xorwegian tramp
teamer Alderney, from Bombay. The
darkness, coupled with the fact that the
llntish steamship Adriatic closely fol
lowed, caused many persons along tho
shore who thought the Alderney was a
submarine, to rush to telephones. Op
erators in the various newspaper ollices
were kept busy for some time answering
inquiries from Jill parts of the citv.
, It was not until the Alderney had
passed some distance into the harbor
that persons who had caught a hazy out
line of her were convinced she was not a
submarine.
derlies. The number of enlisted men is
58. The supply company consists of a
captain, a second lieutenant, three regu
lar supply sergeants, a first Bergeant, a
mess sergeant, a stable sergeant, a cor
poral, a cook, a saddler, a horseshoer and
22 wagoners and teamsters. That is,
there arc two officers and 32 enlisted
men. The regiment quartermaster, Cap
tain H. X. Eastman of Rutland, is head
of the supply company.
VICTIM OF CRAMPS.
WILL LEAVE IN DAYTIME
But Deutschland Will Await Word from
the Bremen.
Baltimore, July 28. The growing im
pression that tne Deutschland was de
laying her departure until the Bremen
is heard from took on the appearance
of fact to-day when it was learned that
she would not sail until official informa
tion had been received from the Bremen
by her agents here. It was said that
the Deutschland would make no secrrt
to get away but would leave her pier in
the day time in order to reaub the capes
under cover of darkness.
HALIFAX IN IGNORANCE.
Knows Nothing of Bremen But the Re
port from New York.
Halifax. July 28. Xothimj is known
its ability to withstand en.irmous pre-1 here of the ftory of the Bremen having
Jessie Brown, 14, Was Drowned in Lake
Bomoseen.
Lake Bomoseen, July 28. .Jessie
Brown, 14-year-old daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. Brown of 111 Madison avenue,
Xew York City, was drowned in four
feet of water shortly before 4 o'clock
yesterday afternoon while in bathing
near the float bridge, this being the first
drowning accident at the lake this sea
son. The girl was taken with cramps
and in her struggles she grasped one of
her companions, a girl of her own age,
dragging her beneath the water. The j
latter, however, managed to break loose
and made her way to shore.
Fred Bergmann of New lork, a board
er at Pond's boarding house, who was
some distance away, was attracted bv
the cries of the girls and hurried to the
spot. It was nearly half an hour, how
ever, before the body was recovered and
by this time life was extinct.
Dr. Xichols of rhilmont, X. Y., a
boarder at Johnson's at the head of the
akc, was summoned and worked over
the child for some time. Dr. R.
H. Seeley of Castleton arrived within a
short time with a pulmotor and this was
used but without effect.
The child came-to the lake a few days
ago with a Mrs. Reiehhard and two
daughters of Xew York and they were.
boarding at Seymour Hurlburt's on the
east side of the lake near the float bridge,
Yesterday afternoon the three girls. Jes
sie Brown and Edith a-nd Dorothy Reich
hard, 14 and 12, respectively, went in
bathing unaccompanied by an older per
son. They had been in the water but a
short time when Miss Brown was taken
with cramps. Edith Reiehhard went to
her aid but as she was the smaller of the
two she was dragged beneath the sur
face of the water and it was only after
a hard struggle that she was able to
break the hold of the drowning girl and
make her way to the shore.
. When Mr. Bergmann arrived on the
scene the Brown child had been in the
water for about 10 minutes and befor
the body was finally recovered half an
hour had elapsed and all hope of saving
the child's life had vanished.
, GOMPERS IS COMING.
President of American Federation of La
bor Will Be in Barre.
Information has j'ust been received by
Alex Ironside, secretary of the stato
federation of labor that President Sam
uel Gompers of the A. F. of L. has defi
nitely deceied to attend the nnnual con
vention of the Vermont branch, to be
held in Barre Aug. 8, I) and 10. In all
probability a mass meeting will be held
in t lie opera house and probably a par
ade; but both questions will be decided
finally when the Central Labor union
meets this evening. Other people of note
who are expected to attend t he conven
tion are: Gov. C. W. Gates. ex-Go v.
A. M. Fletcher of Cavendish and Rev. J.
Wesley Miller of Hethel a niemher of
the legislature, all of whom are honorary
members of the state federation. YA il
liam Standcumbe of the Xew England
A CIRCUS IN TOWN.
Big Crowd Turned Out to Greet Cook &:
Wilson Show.
EegnrdleRs of vchut our elder and
younger statesmen may say concerning
the duties of the nation in this time of
International stress, the rising generation
is not in doubt. The youngsters have
but one thought in their minds, one dec
laration upon their tongues: "The circus
is here." Sometime after the first peep
o dawn tins morning a crowd of small
boys and others more mature were in tho
M. 4-W. R. freight yards to await the
arrival of the took Wilstm shows.
which came through from Woodsville, X.
H., in the night, a long, hard pull over
the hills, postponing the arrival of the
show, people until 6 o'clock. Transfer of
the big show from the c.irs to the exhi
bition grounds off Avers street was ac
companied by very little friction and by
midforenoon the big top was up and the
parade was getting ready to leave thn
premises for the near-noonday march
ation of cars in the Bronx was suspend
ed last night, but to-day forty cars were;('icar Makers' league and diaries Mor
running. o turther disorders mme n ris, general agent of the I nitcd Hatters
the early hours to-day. A hundred were
injured in the clashes between the strike
breakers and rioters last night. Xo at
tempt was made to fasten on the strik
ers the blame when a strikebreaker act
ing as a niotorman, was killed as a car
jumped the tracks in a fatal accident in
the Bronx and struck an iron pillar.
MILLION LOSS IN NEW YORK.
Storage Building Was Destroyed; Three
Firemen Hurt.
Xew York, July 28. Loss estimated
at $1. 000,0 h) was caused last night by a
fire which destroyed the large three story
frame warehouse of the Uneeda Storago
and Van company, which extends from
160th to 151st streets, on Amsterdam
avenue.
The blaze was one of the most spectac
ular in many months.
Three firemen were seriously injured
when a large clock tower fell from the
top of the warehouse to the street. The
men who were removing a ladder wcro
buried beneath the shower of burning
timber.
of Xorth America have also notified Seo.
Ironside that they will he present.
Up to date the following delegates
from this vicinity have been elected
to represent their organizations: Cen
tra! Labor union, Alex. Ironside; granite
cutters, Angus McDonald; polishers,
Harry Dale; lumpers, Fred W. Suitor;
tool sharpeners, Duncan McMillan; retail
clerks, William H. Lager; typographical
union, George Maker; cigar makers, Wes
ley Hoffman; carpenters, A. J. Little.
Mayor Robert Gordon will welcome tha
delegates in behalf of the city. Arrange
ments are being made by the entertain
ment committee of the C. L. U. to enter
tain the delegates during their stay in
the city. The complete program will b?
published in The Times at an early date.
MASONS IN ATTENDANCE.
NEW R. F. D. OFFICERS.
CO. F LOSES COOK.
Eugene Chaffee Died as Result of Bums
Received July 19.
Were Elected at Convention Held in Ver-
gennes,
Vergennes, July 28. The officers elect
ed at yesterday's session of the 12th an
nual meeting of the Vermont Rural Let
ter Carriers' association are as follows:
President, E. H. Sargent, Eaet Thetford:
vice president, E. X. Knapp, Irasburg;
secretary, T. J. Stewart, Lyndonvilie;
executive committee, E. S. Robinson,
Morrisville, C. II. Stratton, Enosbuvg
Falls, W. F. Wheeler, Putney; delegates
to the national convention in Chicaao
August 8-11, C. G. Carr, Barre, II. X.
Spooner, Vergennes, A. C. Hooker, Hard-wick.
At Funeral of George MacKenzie Held in
Barre Thursday Afternoon.
The funeral of George MacKenzie, a
former resident of Barre, whose death
occurred at his home in Lowell Junction,
Mass., last Saturday, was held at the
home of his brother, James R. MacKen
zie, 45 Merchant street, Thursday after
noon at 2 o'clock, the remains having
been brought from Massachusetts in the
morning. Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor
of the First Presbyterian church, win
the officiating clergyman and members
of the Masonic fraternity, to which the
deceased belonged, were in attendance. I
There were numerous floral tributes. The
bearers were: J. R. MacKenzie, Robert
MacKenzie of South Rycgate, a son of
the deceased, William Carson, Janus
Smart, George' Stewart and A. Marshall.
Interment was in Hope cemetery, where
the Masonic committal service was used
at the graveside.
THREE FATALLY INJURED
When Street Car Crashed Into Elevated
Railroad Pillar.
Xew York, July 2S. Three men were
fatally injured when a street car crashed
into an elevated railroad pillar in the
Bronx last night. One of them was a
policeman serving as a guard. The acci
dent was the most serious which had oc
curred since the beginning of the strike
of motormen and conductors on the sur
face car lines in the Bronx and Wet-
hester county. The car was demolished
and fhe crew was sought vainly by the
police after the accident.
RECTOR RESIGNS.
CAR OVER BANK.
Two Occupants Taken to the Bellows
Falls HospitaL
firattti ieirnrhh V. H .Tnlv "8 T'l-n
.-sorthheld, .luiy .a telegram was nimerse. a lunk dealer of Alstead. and n
received yesterday from Eagle Pass., ... T...;t .von nswintr on nf
Tex., by Col. Frank L. Howe, announcing i'w ,, T.t,rlr m-nt m.r th-
the death from burns, of Eugene Chaffee,
cook of Co. F, rirst ermont regiment.
The news was sent to Colonel Howe by
his son, Capt. Harold M. Howe, the com
manding officer of to. f. This is the first
death in the Vermont regiment since it
has been in Texas.
Chaffee succumbed to burns received
July 19, when, a he was pourinjr kero
sene on his open fire, the can of oil ex
ploded. His clothe caught fire and he
ran some distance before he was stoppel
snd the flames extinguished. Colonel
Reeves threw a blanket around him and
several men rolled him on the ground.
bank on the state road.
The car turned turtle and the men
were taken out from under it and sent
to the Bellows Falls hospital while th'
car was run back to this village under
its own power.
SO AT MIDNIGHT.
in
Chicago Experienced Hottest Night
Its History.
Chicago, .lulv 2. Xo relief from tle
excveMve heat wave which has gripped lucre to b.- fdd to prrvure the c-rtiti..ites
practically the entire country is held out I at om-e. The ofji.-ial scrutiny has W n
Rev. Nelson Kellogj Going from Brattle
boro to Portsmouth, N. H.
BrattTcboro, July 28. At a meeting of
the vestry of St. Michael's Episcopal
church last evening the resignation of
Rev. Xelson Kellogg, rector of the church
the last two and one-half years, was ac
cepted and resolutions of regret adopted.
Mr. Kellogg resigned to become rector
of St. John's Episcopal church of Ports
mouth, X. IL. to which he has been called
three times, since taking the local pas
torate. It is a much larger parish.
Since coming here Mr. Kcllogar has
largely increased the attcnilance at the
services of the church and especially the
active eommunid.ints and the finances of
the church have not been in such excel
lent condition as at present.
His rewlcrnstion will take effect about
Sept. 1, it is expected.
STOPPING THE AUTOS.
Officer Sent to Barre by Secretary of
State to Report Violations.
An officer from the Burlington polir
fone. dft.iile,l by Secretary of State
Guv W. Bailey to special service. w,,s
stationed on South Main sre t this aft
ernoon to intercept auto drivers opeiat-
iil their ir-e without proper aut.iornr.
The ofti--e- called at police hiadpirr-
ters -n trie lorenoon to consult with the
Harre r-ol'ce concerning a likely pU
for his wil. Ojeratnr whr were with-
out licenses or had lelt them at bon:?
down Main street
The man who never wants to be a boy
again, and therefore never should be a
boy agiin, must have had memories this
forenoon that almost humanized him.
Cage after cage of wild beasts made up
the zoological feature of the parade and
Cook &, Wilson lived up to a unique repu
tation by showing its every last animal
right on the street. All the cages were
opened. Brtirs, panthers, the chimpanzee,
monkeys, lions and a collection of horses
well up to the average featured the pa
rade. There waa the callioiie and two
bands to make music for crowds of spec
tators that lined both sides the street
from city hall to Merchant street. De
layed on account of the late arrival of
the circus train, tjie parade nevertheless
fulfilled expectaions. "King George." a
coal-black Arabian steed, with a flowing
white mane and a white tail, led the
parade. .
On the rounds this afternoon when the
circus opened at . 2:15 o'clock the man
who would like to be a boy again and
frankly admits it was doing' his duty by
himself and all of the other boys "who
could be enrolled for service as delighted
spectators at the show. Cook & Wilson
do not pretend to be the biggest show
on earth, but their exhibition merits un
stinting praise and a fine variety of ani
mal acts, trapeze work and other features
were loudly acclaimed. There were three
rings, the hippodrome, the "safety first
steel arena and the track. Tt was to b
noticed that the show people were ready
to use every animal in the menagerie in
one act or another. Dancing bears, tho
renowned elephant that smokes, and
"Duke," a lion credited with an interna
tional reputation, were especially de
lightful. Boxing kangaroos and troops
of monkeys added much to the. perform
ance. I his evening the doors onen at 7
o'clock and the big show is on agnin at
8:15.
Barre entertained an orderly circus
crowd to-day and there were few, if anv
disturbances. Hangers-on, bally-ho men
and con-game operators, who usually tag
a nig snow along the circuit, were con
spicuously absent. Even in the sideshow,
where games of chance are most apt to
flourish, the gamesters were missing.
There were balloon men and fake mer
chants in limited numbers, and whistle
peddlolrs who delivered themselves of
verbose, irrelevant spiels that would
mean an immense amount of worry for
the Mergcnthalcr men and proof-readers
if there were any earthly use in repro
ducing them on the printed page. Moet
of the small-time dealers circulated about
through the crowd, but their activities
were not to be described as pernicious,
and on the whole the circus people are to
be commended for tolerating none of the
undesirable element that often trails thu
big shows. !
Police headquarters sent out an extra
detail of officers, who are to remain on
duty until the show departs for St. Al
bans late to-night. First and second
cIum license places were shI to-dav
and other establishments planned to lie
very liberal in the matter of permitting
their employes to attend the circus. A
number of barber shops are to close at
6:30 p. m.
DIED AFTER OPERATION.
He was about 25 years of IL i by the weather officials. Lat nigM used in Montpelier
this wi-ek with
widowed mother snd several broth-TS I was the hottest in the history of Chimgt. marked reul; and it was thought t'fiat
live in Vnrthf-fM. Tho bndr will le i The temperature was !l at midniiritt. ' few nepLcent nr 1mit. t7r the i .t-
sure, It'wae extensively tested by tbetbeen. raptured further than the report i brought here, burial to be made in Krx- There were 17 deaths by heat here inl.-n at Avers t.tv.t might be inteic-'ed
I'nited States government. from New York. bury. ' 24 tifur. ti day. " -
B. M. Parker, Brandon Druggirt, Had Ap
pendicitis.
Brandon. July 2S. B. M. Parker. w h.
underwent an operation for appendicitis
last Sunday morning at the Mary Fletc'i
er lnspit,l in Burlington, died ve.-terd.ir
at the hospital. He was :tl years old srd
is survived by his wife, a daughter,
Madaline, two sons, Raymond and Harry,
and his lather and mother. Mr. and Mr.
H. B. Parker, who live at Xorth Troy.'
Mr. Parker was in the drug business
(here, in the store in the Smith blosic
j whi.-h he houpht of Fred R. Rsrker in
! April 1 : I -. fie is a member of Trojji
loige. Knights of I'vthias. the Knight
Ten p'ar c: North Try. and the Brandon
j .'"si-mess Men's asv.-iatin. It is expe. t
ied that the funeral and burial will be
at North Troy.
