MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY JULY, 28, 1916.
NUMBER 96
MEW
NICK WOULD
BUY A SILK
TILE FOR 'EM
HE WILL FURNISH HAT FOR
DEMOCRATS IF REPUBLI
CANS DO NOT WIN. ALL
READY TO AID IN FIGHT
CAIFORNIA FOR
THE REPUBLICANS
1914 there were only a little morej "We have no particular animosity!
than 36,000 Bull Moose votes cast in toward the laborers of Europe and'
the State of Michigan--and how these Asia. We wish they could and would'
can now be swelled to nearly three maintain the same standards of living!
times that number would present a 'which we try to maintain in thu
process of multiplication compared country. But, until they do arrive at
to which that of the common house-, uch standards, we believe In main'
fly is hardly superior.
Oregon And Alabama
Congressman Heflin of Alabama
taining a protective tariff which dis.
criminates in favor of American in
dustry at least to the extent that
ABOUT THAT PROSPEBITY,
SOME FOOTNOTES ON WAS.
PALMER . WANTS CON
DENSED MILK PROTECTED.
HUGHES GROWING
Washington, July 26. (Special cor
respondence) The fact that Congress
man 'Nick" Longjworth of Ohio, is
purchase silk tiles for all Dem
mUc members of the Ways and
Means Committee of the next Con
gress, if the Republican majority of
that body is not at least 100, tas
tatted a great deal of comment about
the Capitol as to the makeup of the
seems to have changed his methods ,ower standards give the foreigner
of debate since the strenuous daysjan advantage over us.
making its passage through Congress.i "President Hilson says we do not
when the Underwood tariff bill was ask anything for America except what
Then when a Northern Democrat! we ask for humanity. We aerree with
challenged some of Heflin's words, I that, but we do our asking for Amer-
the Alabamian's retort was that if j tea first. We want foreign humanity
the Northerner would come outside, to come up to the American standard
Heflin would lick him. Nowadays, instead of American humanity going
Heflin's manner is less menacing and: down to the foreign standard
he stands forth as the humorist ofl 'And these sentiments will be en
the Democratic 9ide, his text being dorsed by an overwhelming majority
the reunion of the Republicans and f the American people at the polls
Progressives. in November."
i
In the course 'of a speech which I War.. With Political Footnotes.
Heflin made the other day, Mr. Mc Almost simultaneously with the
BURSUM HAS
THE POLE IN
GREAT RAGE
the smooth way in which h escts
forth the votes as they will be cast
HERNANDEZ LOOMS UP BIG.
ISIDORE ARMIJ0 ASSURED
MCDONALD WON'T TAKE
RISK. STILL SILENT
hi tter received by the voters of the
state as would that of any man who
lu fli.. rr,l(, ..... ,t..t ... ... . . .
...v. ucic8,iiiun Jtijcouia De named today, itiat is 'lie
.uii wmtiiuuii. in iMway we see it. ineretore we res
alignment for the positions of sena-j pectfully rise to inquire, "Why not
tor and governor he allots the entire Hernandez?"
fourteen votes from Colfax county
to Catron for the former place and Mild Boom For Seligman
to Bursum for the crovernorshin. The A -.;t,l unrn h., i-t.A :.,
gentleman evidently belives that it is 'Santa F. f,-r Arthr ,,.lir..n:, tl.jSEEMS
ATTACKS AT
VERDUN FAIL
Arthur of Oregon interrupted to ask
President's summons to the militia
if Heflin had ever heard of the pri-jf the States came the Democratic
mary vote in Oregon where Hughes! National Committee with an inspired
received four times as many votes ; explanation and defense of the mat-
as Wilson did. Heflin answered in j tor. Sent broadcast to Democratic
typical Democratic and Southern editors all over the country, this do-
fashion. "Oregon is a small it&tc,", cutnent is intended to dull the edge
he said, "hardly as big as my
. I not necessary to acquire information ! Democratic candidate for governor.
before proceeding to hand it out. The. Whether this is with Mr. Seligman'sj
truth is, nobody has been pledge the approval or not is uncertain. It hadi
votes from Colfax county for any been the rpu'ar impression that lie'
state nomination, and no man today was seeking the nomination for state
can tell who will form the delegation,! treasurer. However that may be,
much less what its predilections will the boom has gained some headway
be. 'As the Range sizes it up, there 'and the Santa Fe man has found sup
is no present candidates who has a 'porters in a number of counties. j
better chance than Mr. Sargent with j The fact as to the Democratic sit-
the Colfax contingent for the imv.:.nt;i, j it. ..i..,:.
MILD BOOM FOR ARTHUR ernorship, nor Mr. Hernandez for the! of A A lnr ih. nn,!n.
SELIOMAN FOR GOVERNOR Isenatorship judging only from the definite will transp ire until after the.
SARGENT GETTING
MUCH RECOGNITION
LITTLE CHANGE.
REPORTS DIFFER AS TO
THINGS ACCOMPLISHED.
AWFUL LIFE LOSS
MEXICO AFFAIRS
NOT MUCH CHANGED
IN
ACCORDING TO
PAPER. BELIEVED
WANTS TREASURER
T E X A S eva sentiment In the county ! Republican convention has been held
toaay nut the Range is not rushmgj and its nominee announced. Tbers
I to the front to declare tliet either of, is plenty of available Democratic ma-'
dis
trict."
Yet the total vote of the Oregon
Of the candidates mentioned for
Governor before the Republican Con
vention. Hon. Holm O. Bursum
seems to be in the lead and it docs
look at the present time that he will
anA tlii hnminah'nn anit if h fe nn.
the proud boast that "he kept us out i .. j .l. r lo i
v uul minated the Republicans will surely
of war . and it is further delrt,t tl. ...
. . --.jiave a strong candidate who un-
of criticism from those who recall
'(ti.m nnr 1 f Tl i i . .... ...
...v...., ... .., uur ir. our- teriai ana local conditions and the ex
sum will capture the delegation, igencies of vote production will have
Them there chickens ain't hatched; a marked influences on final deter
yit." Raton Range
POLITICS MAINE TO BE
THE INITIAL BATTLE
GROUND. HUGHES, TAFT,
ROOSEVELT ALL TO SPEAK
THERE EARLY
I During the present week and the
Ho Will Not RUk It
The Citizen has information to the
effect that Governor McDonald has
become convinced that he can not
mination of candidates after the Re-I,!ltter Part of the past one the f
publican selections have been made.-:fair9 acr0,s the water have ntt
El Paso Times, (Dem.) W changed. The Russ advance has
gone on and the Austro.Gcrmana
i have been unable to stem the tide.
McDonald') Silence Unbroken
If there has been any change in
be elected against Bursum and that the Democratic situation during the
'-". wniie tne....--u.urcpiii7infftoine donbty be e,ectedi a, since iejhe win ot risk anothcr election, past week it has been to make it
last election he has won considerable, depending upon an accident for sue- more indefinite and uncertain
House would be 50 Republican, while
ae man has figured that it will be
135. That it will be Republican is
conceded by many Democrats. Op
timism among the Republicans con
tinues in regaro to tne senate, the wherein every vote was counted as
belief is growing that the .chances ' cast. Heflin was elected unanimously
are improving all the time ' for this because in Alabama the Republican
carrying of the upper branch of Cm. I voters arc not permit ted to exervise
?rcss' ! their rights of suffrage.
There is a good deal of amusement ! Heflin is a fitting spokent.it- !' r
:"n the Republican cloak room and on,'"0 Democratic party,
that side of the House chamber, at j The snurcc and character .-:' the
the boasts of Vance McCormiek.j "prosperity" of which the Democrats
rhairman of the Democratic national are talking so much may be clearly done with the painfully futile practice
committee, as to the results of the' discerned from a news despatch from of spilling ink over white paner as
coming election. Especially is tl.is PittshurRh. The Wcstinghouse Air a means of asserting American rights,
true among the Pennsylvania mem-Brake Co. of that city has just finish- But it seems that is not to be the
. bers, who recall that Vance was mak-Jed a contract for making l.?5n,000 case. Xot only have wo. seen the
ing similiar boasts before the last shrapnel shells for the British gov- continued writing and sending of
flection when he was running for eminent. The job took fifteen months notes to the "de facto" Carranza
governor of Pennsylvania on the De- and f&yt employment to nearly 2.500 whom Wilson made-but we have the
mocratic ticket. When the return? hands. Now that the deliveries have added feature of the Democratic N'a
came in, McCormick was one of thcbeen ma(ie nad "'ere are no more tional Committee rushing into print
worst beaten candidates that ever ran contracts of that kind in sight, the With labored explanations and dc
for governor in that state. As a company announces that the build- fences of the course of the Excca
prophet, Vance has never been a inSs w'" he dismantled, the marlun- tive. This, to borrow the caustic
entire State of Alabama cast only , President's political advantage what-
5th Congress. Several other small 82,961 ; and Heflin's ditrict produced .ever victories our troops may win in
wagers have been made that thelonly a paltry 8.100--evrv one of ; Mexico.
which was cast for Heflin. McArtlmrj Among all the novel features which
in the same election received 26.691. this administration has provided for
McArthtir was chosen in a fair and the entertainment of the country thi!quero Sun
..,.- lemon, win-rein every voter had surely is entitled to high place. War
a chance to go to the noils and with i;t;,-,i
Issac
popularity. Mr. Bursum is a self made cess. Barth has gained some strength in
man and a man of the poor people' If this information is to be relied what has now become an active cam
and a better selection by the Rpubli-I "Pn". and we believe It can he, it paign for the nomination for gov
can convention cant be made. Mos. j is the fisst act of the state
executive ; ernor. More and more of the opposi-
I indicating that he had any political tion is expressed to the renomma-
is a rartty
on this side of the ocean and north
of the Rio Grande. Many Ameri
cans had hoped that when th- ad
ministration finally concluded that
its policy of "watchful waiting" was a
failure and that nothing but a stern
show of force would accomplish any.
thing for the restoration of our pres
tige in Mexico, we should then have
However,
stand for
Why Not Hernandez
From what we hear lately tin- ch-n-ees
for our favorite candidate f-i-Governor
are retting better al! the
time, everybody concedes that be i
the man who will carry th Si. if
by the largest ma'or'lv m l the o-,-Candidate
who can unite all f.irti.ms
now fighting, his present record in
Congress gives him the support of
many who lrefore fought htm am! his
party is solid for him. Delegates
from all oyer the State better be
getting in line to place before the
people of Kcv Mexico the man who
carted the State by a nice majority
and who will again repeat the vic
tory with a much larger majority. I
Let us all vote fur B. C. Hernandez,
for Governor -Wagon Mound Pan
tagraph. U AJ!.fi
" I ticket.-I.a
Mr. Bursum is practically assured,
judgement whatever.
his derision
lection may
j tion of Governor McDonald. The
not togain governor continues to maintain a
have hren' dense and imncnetraMc silence a to
influenced sonn-whal by the majority his wishes, while those nearest him
of the voting Dem. .fr.-.t.- of ihe i!.tt..'Say that he will not be a candidate
who have derided to avoid issues There is a continued demand for KV
created by hi- administration as much R. Putney, the Alburiuerque whole
as possible by leaving him out next saler, win m.itiv Democrats lo,,l i.p.
time. It was this sentiment which on as a potential Moses, possessing
prevented McDoulad's election as na. brains, popularity and a bank account,
tional committeeman, it being fear- Three months ago Putney asserted
ed that even his continuance in a publicly and finally that he -vmt'd
prominent place would make the is-, not become a candidate. He has been
sues of liis ndiuinistration harder fishing part of the time since and at
to meet. A large numebr of Dem- tending to an expanding business the
ocrats hold that the best way to get rest. He has said nothing to indi
rid of the issues and the man, bothjeate that he has changed his mind.
at the same time, and still hold the If he should change it today or next
support of his adhereats who havciweek or at any time in the near
future, he would be nominated tie-
Mr.
not
Crtires Citizen. j change his mind. But many Deni-
! ocrats continue hopeful that he will
to spread
(DenO '
I 'The German Verdun attack ha
now gone into its sixth month and
there is little difference in the con
dition of the positions between that
existing at the opening of the siege
and that at the present time. The
dispatches depend entirely on th
place from which they were sent to
give an idea as to the gains or the
losses. If the word c es from
Pan's or London, there is a very
substantial gain on the part of the
Allies: i'" th.- wire i- from P.erlin,
t he ab. inn1 d id not .iinoiini to any -thnn;
In spit.- ..f the difference in
the wires thai eome there s. ems to
li,- no I 1 1 1 1 1 1. that the combined forces
of the Freio li and the English and
the I-.''!ssi.iTi- h ive made some sub
stantia! rnUanees and have gained ter
ritory which bad been previously
taken or which was captured for the
first time
Tile fi'ii.-n- n-11'ei-land is still in
American water, and i; not making
any public announcement as to the
time of her departure. She is not
using the megaphone to tell about
it When siie dips under the sea and
starts home it will not be known and
the time of her departure will be only
conjec; tiro.
Thi demand of the English par
liament for more money has brought
to the attention of the world, the aw
ful expense of the war. England
alone has used $I4.15H.O(.(JOO. in
cluding rhe amount just asked for by
In addition to the
vast sums oi money that have been
necn einoving t ie Units of virtorv.
is to elect him national committee- von.t donbf. Those ulm know-
man and keep him off the state i Putney best here say he will
That Murray Sentiment
and lose no opportunity
howling success and from all indica- erv so,(l an(1 the hands laid off. With comment of the British barrister who of thc republican nomination for gov-
tions he is not going to improve on lne ena ot the war or even before- was reviewing the "Lives of the Lord ernor- tvfn thc Albuquerque Journal The Silver City Enterprise, qtiot- the belief-El Paso Time
1-- ...... .. .ha... lU.l iL. All.. f .. I 1 ltl .1. " I
nis reputation along tnese lines. ;-"v- uui mc nines are Beginning uiancellors", adds a new terror to a paper mat can nanny nc attuwu ,-nf, from t,e State Record, regard-!
Representative C. Bas-on Slemp o fs'et into their stride in provides war. It will he had enough to have-"' e'ir" Partial to him, estimates ' ;nf, the ikey n(,m;na,;on 0f w. D.i Bunum Le.d.
irginia, who is chairman of the sub-! themselves with munitions- there to read the grewsome account of th!,t he will'have a good safe majority Murray for the position of state! Fairly complete reports from every
committee on speakers of the Ke- WU1 be innumerable instances like military operations in Mexico. But to over all competitors in the state con- treasurer, adds: .county in New Mexico which have Lord Asquith
pumican congressional ccmmittee is inose ow fitts- De compelled also to persue the glos-l Thc above from the State Record been brought to Albuquerque this
receiving many favorable responje-, burghers who are out of a job can sarial explanations of the Democratic The probability that Mr. Rursmn merely echos the sentiment that is week by reliable men indicate that 'spent in this war, the lose of life has
from members of the party who will te" now Renuine all this Democratic politicians who will seek to make will be elected is equally strong. He : heard in every part of Grant county, H. O. Bursum will be the Republi- ,nat tne lf,,,c f the past week have
participate in states and other dis- prosperity is. ivotes for Wilson out of his belated was beaten for the governorship at which is Mr. Murray's home. It is can nominee for governor, and that
tricts than their own in the spell-; At Philadelphia the President said following of a duty which clear-head- the first state election, to he sure, here among his own people that he he will be named by
binding line during the coming cam- ne was in fighting mood" for the ed men have perceived for more than but political conditions in the com-: stands the highest and it is they, irre- majority on the first ballot. The !i-
paign. The demand for speakers is things he believes in. Yes? And three years-this is, as Josh Billing? : monwealth have changed radically I spective of party, who want to see falling away from Secundino Rome-o, The letter writing contest that has
unusually great thus early and there Just what are the things he believes would have said, "tew mutch" j since then. At least ninety per cent.him secure the nomination, Grant noted three weeks ago, has continued been going on far the past two years
is every indication that the Republi. lnr I jot the several thousand progressive-county has been ignored in the past steadily. Romero can only count six with the f
can campaign, national and congics-! Irvin Cobb declares that he is going The Chautauqua votes that were cast against him ;n Republican state councils and this counties, with a total of 87 vote', un ibat -. I. i
sional, will be one of the most to vote for a smooth-faced man this! Nothing better has ever been of-five ycars aKO wi" ca,t for nim! action has not helped increase the as committed to him and of those yr- d, .r
rigorous ever waged in the history of year. And how long that smooth fercd to the people of Santa Fe than ' at t,,e aPPaching election ; and. bc-j enthusiasm of party workers. With Guadalupe county is reported in a at once,
he party. j face will be the day after election! thc program of the chautauqua ( siflcs- at lcast ,wo stronR,v republi-; Mr. Murray on the state ticket, all position of extreme uncertainty. There o, ''o
rH.. T? ' A If .Jl A .! l- - !.! I. t f . . . n Aimlin. l,-t u-.ni 1 nifr Intrt tll f-1 .! ..
siiiiic3amdn i-.veris n. -layne-i ot .n nmenuni ritor j wnicn nas oeen given during the 11 L",l,,la u,1'i ." s.. I(-ei uiui iney can consistently taKC is a strong" possimlitv that some ot seems to
the eighth California district, is very The Republican Publicity Associa. past week. Everything offered was thc "f'fcratic column because of,0ff their coats during the campaign Santa Fe county's eighteen votes have mad
optimistic in regard to the Republi-1 tion, through its President, Hon. great, but there were some numbers j factional differences are now normal 'and work like beavers. will be cast for Bursum and the latter been anxious win and have held
. . n it At ri . v . . ........ - i ...mi u nA t. .
zan ouitooK m v-ainornia. K:presen- juainan nourne, jr., today gave out mat stood out with peculiar promi- kiv- i"; w..-.....v nas KOOfl RronriiI lor his belief that -hrm. Ihe Kn-s ans ! ave i-iqucs.
been awful, the Germans claiming
a substantial been largely on the part of the Al-
reign nations continues
ing now with England,
again wants a full reply
Mention Of Hernandez !
The Raton Range has thc following delegation on the
State a , to sav retrardintr the selection of R cum': ennnrlfr -1
C. Hernandez as a candidate for 140 vot s r.!,.(! -ed f
i
senator; or more thin
When a man makes good in one Of these hy.
ee, the week's war new'
favor the Allies, as they
- .idiarces which they hav
he in. The Kn-s;a!is
he will get part of the Taos county ti.mably
tativc 'aynes is one of the conser- the followingi statement at its Wash- nence. The lectures were all of thc ' majorities for the republican ticket.
Tative level-headed men of the House ington Headquarters: high grade, with Adam Bede in the lr- - t'r8"111 wil1 bc our next gov.
who is not rriven to ho.astintr or idle' "There is one resnert in u-Mrt, forefront Tin. mc;..l rf.;.., ernor and he will give , the
t'k and what he says naturally car- can agree with the Democrats re- were very fine and the concert giv-,wie an1 heneficent administration
ries weight with it. Speaking of the garding the Republican tariff law- en by the Srhuberts caught the fancy Pocorro Chicftan.
political outlook in that state, he it is a discriminating tariff, though of everyone. Noah Bellltars delighted Merit Will Count
says: "We are once more united and not in the sense that Democrats would his audience as he gave the "Hoosicr, The steady progress being by Jsi-j capacity it is natural to think of him which he can count upon
working together in California. There have us believe. Schoolaster" and Thavin's band was doro Armijo, of this county. In his for something hiuher. Why not Mr. Outlook.
is nothing to it. Y0H can look for an "A protective tariff law discrimi- a winner. On the evening of "The campaign for thc nomination on thc Hernandez for the senate? He is
old-time Republican victory in our nates in favor of the American pro- Melting Pot" there was a Standing Republican ticket as secretary of abb-, he is a fine speaker, he under- A .arty ee,-is;,(iug of
Jtate in November. It is sure to durer. and against the product of the room house, and thc audience went state, is simply a reward for r;s well stands national issues so well as to eho, I.nniKford. Haynes
come." .cheap tabor of Europe and Asia. wild over the presentation. It was a known efficiency in filling any of command the aduvration of easter-t Pecos fist-,ju- t' first i
The fact that Secretary McAdoo's "Republicans believe in protecting wonderful production. Every mem- fire to which he has been called in hearers, who especially recognize the and thai 'hey had a go.
speech, will be sent all over the the American farmers and storkgrow- "Cr f the company was a star. The the pact. lvalue of bis knowledge of Mevtrr-n without ayin
country as a campaign document, and cr against the competition of farmers ether numbers of the course were Mr. Armiio is a most efficient man conditions, now so important a na- good time
will not pay postage. S"-eral tons a"d stockmen who operate on the only what thc bureau promised, and in any office in which he has been tional subject. ways an i
of Democratic publicity in, :
be franked this year. If th
payers delight in fiction, the Demo- t acme loast from competition with 'cnpain cnautauqna. I he obtectors ottire ot secretary ot state in case new niooo on its state ticker men ot instance there was
first ballot. Bur-
rt that he lias
the first ballot.
enough to nouiiiiae
undoubtedly has I2u
Carrizi .
made nbsi an , i.a! jains and
e than held their own in a!!
; the Austrian- being drivers
In Mexico
in s t al "U wli
o as far as the
e.vtcert-e.'. !
at
Frvi. -l,
wete -i
-f ' ,
'-! time
b
the
e. V.
Wiihl-i M.
d de-
bim
anywhere. "I lu re is
rident connected wit
;it -henn lands of Argentina. We believe that was the offer of an entertain- tried and no one expects anything. The rank and file of thc Republican trip of this kind and often it is
s;. :n protecting the poultrymen of the mcnt that could only be heard at a but an efficient administration of the party in New Mexico is looking for for publication, but in the pr
lit If
. a
ti' t
ellt
occurreuee
mint
tion-.
rising
Tnv,
the li
.' t ilr
!h,l !,
Tl - r,
,-n th
sltg.iti
u fr
et
,'lk
is h .'t."
t
;ea" s:t-.-!'.
this
oi'thertt
v ever,
. as the
er. hrs
t!i - ele- '
c-ndi-h
t up-
m
,,ci -eitit.
s as to tin- firing over
hoth sides is ever the
crats think
freight.
they should pay
the the cheap eggs of china We believe to the coming of this great course he is called to that of'ice.
high ability and clean record, po- which was not on the schedule and bo
ne
of contention, the latest protest
i
The Michigan member of the Pro. 'f Canada and Switzerland and nti- tnat their judgment was all awry, is equivalent to election, not only! away from thc habitual office seek- on Mr. Haynes wherein Haynes was to end the raids that have become
gressive National Committee is quoted merous other countries in order to ar"' the people who have taken ad-because the Republican ticket is mark- er. That is another reason why it meat for thc dog, as the canine in- such an important factor in the rela-
as being much peeved because his build tip better dairy herds in Amer-I van,aPe of this splendid program ed for success this fall, but because
party has gone into the discards and ica- We believe in building tip home have on,v words of commendation, of the individual efficiency of Mr
he threatens grave things. If the factories in order that employes of Should the chautauqua come this way j Armijo. Las Cruces Citizen,
third party is not to have a ticket those factories may have steady! aeam n "ts circle of peregrination,! Chicken Not Hatched
of its own, he says, he will deliver employment at remunerative wages' !t is plainly evident that this city will! That the official political forecast
100.000 votes to Wilson. It would be and consequently buy and consume not dolffe-' Nothing has ever been er for the Albuquerque Morning. Jour-
interesting to know the process by freely the products of farm and range pven "ere at so small a cost to the nal is possessed of an amazingly light
in shutting out the butter and cheese arc saying nothing now. as they sec Because of this fact his nomination ; litical and personal and a getting that was an attack made by a collie Carranza claims that he is anxious
which this will be accomplished. In "d orchard.
1 ticket purchasers.
I running imagination is evidenced by
would be well to consider Hernandez scrted a set of perfectly good teeth tionship between this country an.t
for the senate. He would make good in the leg of the Oklahomian, when Mexico. Sail Antonio. Tex., has been
there, just as he has made good in that gentleman was simply trying to under a provost guard and they par-
the house. He is not identifid with be kind and attentive to one of the aded thc streets of the city,
anything objectionable in New Mex- numerous offspring of the collie. The; There is a good prospect of some
ico politics, he is young, earnest, able, bite was not serious, but it was not court martial proceedings against
plainly a coming man; and his nomi. a part of the program of the fish-i some of the members of the eighth
nation would doubtless be as well or ing trip .
(Continued on page four)
