HP
TUT
o
' " 1
NNA
R
ECORD
VOL. 10. KENNA, CHAVES COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1016. NO. 24.
Notice ror rubllcntion..
own A osjto
EtipftFlRleht 6g t!ic. Interior. U. 8. Land
bHibe; at RoSwpii; ii. .m., jiliy a, lais; , .. ,.
Notice la hereby given that Krin nrd N. 1).
Ward, of Kt. 8. llox SI, Ellda, N. M.. who on
March M. 1915, made HD. E, Serial No. 0?j79,
for lot i 1 & J: and E14NWK; and on Mch. 30. 1914,
mndeA rtd'l HE.. Serial No. OJSlViforNMSW H
NViSEH. Section 31, Township 6 S., HaHire Si
K N. M. P. Meridian, has nled notice of In--tentinn
lo make final three-year proof to es
tiMish claim to the land nhove described, be
fore Dn C. Savaire. II. S. Comm!simer. In
his olttoe at Kenna, N, K on A uir. 8, 1918.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Thomas V. Ncely, John A. Itoirers, these of
Kenna. N. M., Will II. Cooper, John H, Tay
lori tliesa 01 lit. X Ellda. N. M,
; ; Hriiilivltt Wtofi; R'gtfuer,
Notice for Publication.
Non Cool 010571
Department ol the Intorlor, U. .8.
Land Office at Fort Sumner, N. M Juno 19,
1HB.
Notice is hereby Riven that Gertrude E.
White, formerly Gertrude E.Tenttue. of Kennn,
N, M.. who on March 3, 1')13. made homflRtend,
No. 010571. for SK. Mee. 19, Twp. S.iUnnte
SO E., N. M, P. Meridian, has tiled notice of In
tentlon to make final three year proof to cs.
lafollsh claim to the land above described
before Dan C. Snvaye. U, H. Commissioner, in
hi ome1'.!. Kf nn; NI M'., oil til 19th day of
Auutim. i'ila.
. Claimant names at witnesses:
Carl H. Prlewe, George T. I.ittlenvid,
Charlie H. Wear, Wllber T. I.arditf, all ef
Kenna, N. M.
A. J. Evans lleKlstcr.
J7-A4.
Non Con 1 01OW7
01O98
. Ri:lr?lc"rH (if tnfe iiiteHdr, U. S.
LaLii Oftioe at Fort Sumnerr New Mexico,
June 7. 1916. , ' -:;
Notice Is hereby Riven that Oscar Parker,
of Kenna, N. M who on !Jnly S3, 1013, made
Homestead No.OlOMff. for WKSEtf. EKSWK.
Seo. to, SEHSEH Sec. 30. and on
Feb. 3. Mi 4. made Addl. Ild. Entry. No.
0WW9. for W!4SEtf, Section SO, Township 5 S.,
ItanseaiEn N.M.I' Mer'Uian, lia Hied notice
of intention to make (In n 1 three yr Proof
tb Psthbllsta claim to tlie Mnd above describ
M HelHS Baa ti, flU-Wei tJ. ti. Coihmisaloiier.
in his office at Kenna, N.. M., on the 10th day
AiiKust. 1916. i
Claimant nameB as witnesses:
Robert E. Fletcher. Frank Good, George T,
i.ltllelleld, Charles M. Barber, all of Kenna!
N.
J '.' A. J. Kvuns, ItOKlstcr.
J7A4.
NOTICE of CONTEST.
Contest No 1)12'
Hnparlmrht of tlibliiterlbf U. fe: I.nnii Otth t
al Ronwcll, ft. M., -luiy 19. Ifi(l.
To Eubui t H. Stewart of Kennal N: M., coli-
fstec:
Yon are hereby notified Robert T,. Ilollis
who gWc Kenna. N M.. aa lit portoffice ad
dress did on June 50, 1916. file in thl office hi"
duly eoioborated application to contet and sc-
curo the cancellation of your homestead entry,
Serial No, 033101 mado Deo. 7, 1911, for Ml,
Sec.t.1, Township 7, S . Knnurc Ml. E N. M. 1'..
Meridian, and a wounds for lils eontrrt heal-
lores lliat you have wholly abandoned Slid
tract of land; Hint yoll hive never eJInhlkhed
residence tlieieau, and that there are no Im
provements of any description on fnirt land.
Yott are, therefore, further notified that
lid said a!lo;ltliitl will b tikmi Mr this office
as liaviiiif been confeott, bf voth (tiiti tour tnl(l
entry will becaneeled thereunder without yhlit
further right to ho heard therein, cither before
thlsofflco oron appeal. If you fall to file In this
office within twenty days after the FOl'llTII
publication of thisnotlco, as ishown below, your
answer, under oath, specifically meet inir and
responding to thepc allegations of contest, or if
viu full within that time to il!e In this office
due proof that you lnive Served A copy of your
answer on the sa'd aonfKinnt el'her in person
Or by registered mnl!. If tliU service Is mrtde h)'
the delivery of a copy of your answer to tlie
emit eat nnt Ih tmrsoh proof of such Service
must be either the sMid (loHle'SUiht's trrlttch
acknowledgment of 1:1s receipt of the cojiy
Rhowlhit the dr.ie of Its itsrdi'cillt. or the Sill
davit of the pei-Sdn by ti ll'iii. Hie ((ellvery 1 a
mnde statinn when and where the cony was
delivered: if made by registered mall, proof
of such service consist ol the nlmiavll of the
person by whom copy wasmnilcd statinirwhen
and the post office to which it wasniailcd, and
this affidavit must be accompanied by the
postmaster's receipt for the letter.
Yon should state in your assvver the name of
post office to which you desire future notices lo
oe sent to you.
Emniett Pal ton, Tteghter.
Dais' bf first ptltilil'Alloh Jlilv SI, 19)0
" seci-nd " Jtily '-'S, 1916
v. third " AUK; 4, 11)1(1
" fourlh ' j uft. Ili
Votlce for rnbtlcntlon.
M79l
DeiiaHmeht of the Interior, U. S.
Land Office, at Roswell, N. M..
July 7, 1618.
Notice U hereby Riven that Charles E. )d,
of Acme, N. M., who. on Muy 16. 191, made
HD. E. Serial No. OWM (but amended by "C"
. 15-15) to SWJtSEM. Seo. ; and NRMSWM;
WHNE!4, Sec, 33. T -8 Ilonite S0-E., N. M.
V. Merldluti, has filed notice of Intention to
ttitilte final live-V car Proof, to establish
claim to the land above described, before
Register or Receiver, U. S. Land Office, at
Roswell, N. M., on Auv 18, 1916.
Claimant nameB at witnesses:
Oscr ft. WlllltJ. Edvln St. IJiSlioeffer. tliese
bf AcinV!, N; M Riley Sllnscin. ot Klliins. N. M.,
HbSUoe T.Graves, of Itoswei:, N. M.
Emmelt I'll t ton, Register.
July 14, Auir. 11.
. Notice for Publication.
Non Coal. 0107C4
t Department of the Int rlor, U. S
J.nd Oftlce at Fort Sumner, New Mexico
duly 10. 1916.
Notice is hereby idven that Maiindla S. Hunt,
ofKUda, N. M.. whe on June 3, 1918. made
homestead No. M0704 for Nk(Ji Sec. 7, Town-
alUp 5 S ltaiige BJE.i N- M. P. Meridian, has
filed notice of Intention to mako final three
year proof, to establish claim to the land
above described, before C, A. Coffey. U. 8'
CommUaioner, In his office, at Ellda, N. M.
onthellnd day of August, 1916.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Arthur A Walford, Samual E Guss. Bertha
E. Maaon, Albert E.Gu's all of Elida. N. M.
A. J. Evans. Register.
Jsi-aic.
ad
NOTICE FOB PUBLICATION.
031537
Department of the Interior, U.
Land Ofnee at Roswell, N. M., July 17, l'Mo.
Notice Is hereby given that Jesse llurnc
or K&gleliill. N. M., who on Apl. 1. 1915. ma
lift K , Serial No. 031537, for NJi. Sec.
Twp. 8 B..Rariire3! K.. N.M.P. Merlrtlan. I
tiled notice of Intention to make Final throe
year proof, to eatablish claim to the lan
above deaatbed, before Win. H. Hlunohurd
S. Commissioner. In his Office at Jenkins,
N. M.. on Aug. S, 1UI0.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Uube llnrdin, Henry Besb, Roland lieehe
tHeseof Kaulehlll, N. M Qeorua W. Watson
Of Jen Whs. N. M.
Elhmetl PStlon, Reelater,
July SI -Aug, is
NOTICE OF CONTEST;
Contest No. 9411.
Department of the Interior, U. S.
Land Office, Roswell, New Mexico, July 1,
1916.
To L. Thomas Stewart of Kenna, N. M , Con-
testee: -
Vos are hereby aotlflnd that Robert L.IIollle
Who (fives Krinnai New Mexico, SShfs post"
Sffice address; dlil on June. I9i6i tile In this
yrfl ;e t'is duly condboiated application iH
Boniest rind &3cure the cancellation qf jrpuf
homestead entry. Serial No. 0Mli'.2, made Dec.
7th,l!il5, fpr'NW. Section 25, Township 1
6 , Range 31 E., N. M. P. Meridian, and as
grounds for his contest he alleges that you
have wholly abandoned said tract of land; that
you have nover established residence thereon,
dnfltthu there ae no Improvements of any
k'ud on snld land:
Y'oll arei therefore, further nrttiried that thg
said allegations Kill be tiikenby tilts oftlce. as
having rjieti cdhfelsed by tou and yoitr shitl
entry will be canceled thereunder vitllou!
your further right to be heard therein, elthe'r
before this office or on appeal, if you full to
file in this office within twenty days after the
FOURTH publication of this notice, us shown
below, your answer, under oath, specitlcally
meeting and responding to these allegations of
contest, or if you full within that time 16 file
In this of?e due proof tha von have served
a copy of your answer on llie snlll tirlhtEslif til
either In person or hv registered uuitl If this
service is made by tlie delivery of a copy of
your answer' to the ctlntMstinit itl person, proof
of such Service rtlust be eitliei the said con
teauittr written tacl;nbteMlmiehl bf Ills rei
celpt of tlie copy, showing the date of lis
receipt, or the affidavit of the person by whom
the delivery was made stating when and
where the copy was delivered; If made by
registered mail, proof of such service must
consist of the affidavit of the person by whom
the copy wug mailed Hinting when and the
post office to which It was 'ailed, ond this
affidavit must bo accoiupk ' A by the post
master's receipt for the leer. You should
stale In your ahswer the name ot the post
office to which you desire future notices to
be sent to you. Emmett Pattoii, Register.
bate of first imbllotltlon July 21. 1916
" " second " July Si 1'nfS
' 11 third " Aug. 4, 1916
" ' fourth " Aug. II, 191
Notice for Publication.
0133S4
ISOLATED TRACT
PUBLIC LAND SALE
Department of the Interior, U. 9. Land
Office at Fort Huinner, New Mexieoi -luno l",
1-116.
NOT1CK Is hereby given that, as directed
the Commissioner of the General Land Olllco,
under provisionsof Sec, ti55, II. S., pursuant
lothe application of George T. 1-lllletlcld.
Ke;.na. N. M., Serial No. 013'M, we will otter
at public sale, to the highest bidder, hut at not
lesslhau it Ro pnr acre, at I o'clock P. SI on
the II djy of August, next, at this oflice, the
following tract of laud; NWit'.VK.' Seo. 19.
T. 4 S., It, 30 E , N. M. P. M.
The sale w ill not be kept open, but will be
declined closed when those present at the
hour named have ceused bidding. Thcpeiioi
making tho highest hid w ill be reiinlred to im
mediately pay to the Receiver the amount
theroof. '
, Any person clr.linlug advenely theahove
dsorhed land are advised to file their claims,
or objections, on or before llio time designat
ed for sale.
Raymundo Harris"!), Receiver.
June 3u-Julyj8.
NolIcD for I'libllcnllon.
N'oht'oal 010617
010730
DeDai'tmeftt of the Ulterior. U. S.
Lflrtd Omoe at Ft, Sumne'i'. N ., Jilne' Sf; 1910.
Notice Is hereby given that Lushen Powell
of Elida, N. M who on March S7. 1 913. niat:e
homestead, No. 01G627. for Lots 3 & 4. and SV
SWU. Sec. 3 and on June 4. 193 made Add l
entry. No. 010739 for the NK! Section 4.
Townships S., Range 3D E.. N. M. P. Meridian,
bus filed notice of intention to make final
thiee year proof, to establish claim to the hind
above described, before Dan 0. Ssv.ige, U. S.
Comm'ssioner, In his office, at Kenna, N. M.,
on thelltli day of August, 191C.
Claimant names as witnesses:
I'tttrlc O'L-tirv. James W. llioekltion, Ruby
R. Ilcdspeth. George E.Clmvers, all of Kenna,
Si M.
jsl-A S
A. .1. Kvar.s, Register
NOTICE FOR ri ULIi' lTlON,
Non C oal 010H47
Department of the Interior, U. fi.
Land Office, Ft. Sumner. N M.. June 2f", 1916.
Notice Is hereby given tlint Robert E.
Fletcher, of Kennn, N. M,, who on July 25. 1913,
made homestead, No. 010M7, for NWk. WH
NES and WWSEM. Kecthm 31, Township 5S.,
It. 30 E.i N. M. P, Meridian, has tiled notice of
intention to mal e Final Tlnce Y'ear Proof to
est nlilib claim to the land above described,
before finH C. 4nVat'i. U. , Colnmlst;loner, 111
HI-office st Itenna. N: M.-i oh the llttt flay of
An'xi'st. l'ilf.
Clalriittnt names as witnesses:
James W. Broekm'oii, Our! II. Pricwe, Frank
Parker, Charles M. Barber, all of Kenna. N, M.
A. J. r.varis, Register.
J 1-A 1H
Notice for Pablicntioo,
fi7U
Department of tlie Ihteilor, V. 8.
Lnufl Ortlce at BosVc'H. N. M.-( Attg. 13, loia.
Not;ce' is liei-eby given (hat 1'enjamin F
nalfb'rrt df New tlope. N. M., who on March
31. 1913, made HP. Serial No. 027119, for
K, Sec. 34, Township 6 S .' R.nft 5E.. N.M.
p. Meridian has filed notice of Intcnd'ofi t?
make Final Throe Y'ear Proof, to estubllth
claim to the land above described before C. E.
Toombs. U.S. Coinmlastoner in bis office, at
Nw Houo.-N. M.,V)n August 28. 19i'i.
Claimant numpg witnesses:
Jlenlamin 1. Ilinsler. tVill'iltli 1'. l'H.-M. those
cf New Ho'ie, N. I.f;; Sllns K lleeiilart, Cliarlts
It: Peek, tliese of ltlehlnT.d. N. Nl.
Kmmett Piif.on. Register.
July ''l-Aug. Id.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Non ChbI 0I"550
Depaf iniCfll of ' lntrlQr, V. S. Land
Office at Fort Suintier', N. 5t. Juu W, ImO.
Notice Is hereby giteri that Or,1 It. Miller,
of Judsdh, N-M'.. vtho on Feb. l2i ilVi, flliple
honicSlca'1: N. ('lOrrjli: fof SuSi. Sec: S') nhd
NEW. 8eo. SX Tonililf) 5 S.; Range 33 E., N
M. P. Meridian, has tiled ndtidtf di Iriteniion
to make Final three year proof, to estii:.1!fh
claim to the land above described, before G.
E.Toombs, U. S. Commissioner, In his office,
at Nobe, N. M.. on the 19th day of August.
1911.
Clnlmant names aa witnesses:
Floyd VUsod. of JU'lsort, N. .M.
John VV.WIlmore, of jHiisoil, N. M(
Philip W. HendrlcksOn. of F.lldft. N. M.
A Ardn Iti Self, of Elid, N, M.
A. J. Evans. Register,
July H-A:
PEGGY VISITS
t 6 LOfj'lSE OLIVER
Dear rriseilla: This place Is Im
mense. t I'm so glad they named me
after Aunt Margaret: But never mind,
when she dies and leaves all her
money and this beautiful house I'll di
vide, honest cross my heart I will!
I and my little trunk arrived safely
yesterday. This morning, after break
Taet, I was wondering over the house,
when I came upon a "sort of oflice
which opened out of the conservatory.
I went In. And there I saw the grand
est looking man you ever gazed upon.
Whert t M tba man I started to re
treat, but ha tiidn"i gfTB ra time. He
was beside me In an instiffi holding
out his hand and saying, "You art
Miss Holdshlp, arent you?" So I Eave
him my hand and while he shook It I
said: "Yes, I'm Peggy Holdshlp. Who
are you?" "I'm the private secretary,"
he explained, "and Mrs. Harworth
asked me to show you around."
1 started to talk about Miggs, the
Notice for Publication.
013137
ISOLATED tract
PUBLIC LAND SALE
Department of the Interior, U. 8. Land
Office at Fort ."ViT-or. New Mexico, June 19,
1016.
NOTICE is hereby given that, as dffucied by
the Commissioner of ilie General Land olflce.
under provisions of Sec 215.",, R. S., pursuant
to tlie application of Samuel Jones. Ellda, N.
M Mortal No. 013137, we will other nt public
sitlci to tile highest bidder, but at not les than
i 59 per ndfe, ttt 'i o'clock P. M , on the 11
day of August next, t th' ofil08, fh follow
ing tract of land; SMS WM Sec. ST. T. 8 S.
It. ;!1 E.. N. M. P. M.
Tii6st,n will not be kept open, but will be
declared closed vftffn thoss present at the
hour name I have ce"ed bidilMif, The person
making; the highest bid will be reiiulre'l !a Im
mediately par to the Receiver the "mount
thereof.
Any persons claiming adversely theabove-de-sdllbed
land aro advised to Hie their claims
or objection's, ofl or before (he time dcignal
ed for Mile.
Ruymundo H-.-rrlsur, Receiver,
tunellO-Jul 8H.
JiOTICE FOB PUDLlCATiO.
02459J
Department of the Interior, U. S.
Land Olllee at Rosu ell, N. M., July T, 1010.
Notice Is hereby given that Edwin M.
IJlshoeffer, of Acme, N. M., who on March ?!.
1911, made HD, E.. Serial, No. 021590, for SEK
NE'4; NKtiSEX. Sec 3?; or.d S.NWif. Sec.
3'3, Tp.6 S,,Ra'it'e SB E , N-N. M, P. Meridian,
has Hied notice of Intention to make final
live year proof, to Establish eluim to the land
above described, before Register or Itecelver,
U. S, Land Omce, at Roswell, N. M., on Aug
18, 1916.
Claimant names as witneancs:
Oscar D. While, Charles E. Old, these of
Acme, N. M., Riley Stinon. of Elkins, K, M.
Kosco T. Graves, of Rosw ell, N. W.
Kmmett Put ton, Register.
July 14 Aug 11
.Notice for rubllcntion.
030170
Department of the Interior, U. S.
Land OIHoe at Roswell, N. M. June SI. 1U1.
Nollce Is hereby given that Jacob F. Was
mer. of New Hope. N. M.. who, on Oct W,
191R. made Add'lHE. Serial No.030i;0, for Lots
J. 3 A I. Section I, Twp. 8., R. 31 E-. N. M,
P. Meridian, has liled notice of intention to
a.uke final three-year proof lo establish
claim to the land above described, before K
Toombs, U. S Commissioner. In his office, al
New Hope, N. M., on Aug. 12. 1'iltf.
Claimant names as witnesses:
James W. Armstrong, CleorgeH. Newcombe,
Jake A, Toombs, Isaua M. Toombs, all of Jud-
son, N. M.
EMMETT PATTON,
July7A - Register,
Use of Plants aflil Animals
Whether in the vegetable
kingdom or the animal kingdom
f e is nncred . It w a responsi
ble po3ition in which ;inan is
placed where by his superior in
tellect hois given authority over
plants and animals.
To neglect eo great opportun
ity f a- beautifying the earth
and advancing humanity by
cultivating and selecting plants
and by breeding and feeding de
sireablc animals seems unpard-
mable. Animals are a part of
God's creation and man will be
held responsible for the manner
in which he fares for them.
That r.nimalri and plants
should be used as foods none
will question. That seems the
primary use of tliese creations.
Dut tl.e critical p:est conies in
the work we do and the service
we perform for nature, and the
relation we bear to humanity,
flow do we advance civilization
in our use of plants and animal':
To waste the products of then
soil is to withhold food and
raiment from those who need it
To lie uniust and cruel to an
imuls is to abuse nature's best
friends and man's valuable allies.
Tenderness and sympathy to
dum animals show those fine
dualities of humanity that dis
tincuish the intelligent. Onlv
cowards would, abuse those
creatures which cannot speak
for themsolvts, Farm and
Kanch.
A number of Kenna people
tb'ok their children out Monday
and showed them what raia
locked like.
pup, and soon we were gossiping as
though we had known eh other
thousand years. He showed me all
over the house and grounds and real
ly. Silly, I'm going to see that you ;et
to come next time. It's all so grand;
I must stop now and dress for din
ner", - Lovingly,
TEGGY. !
4
Friday, November 4.
Dear 5HIy: It was a man, and who
do you supposo It was? You'll never
guess. Bernard Portman'. I knew him
the lileUnt I saw him. He looks Just
like the magazine pictures. And so
rich, Aunt Margtfrt says, he could;
almost buy out Rockefeller, His wife
died last year, you remenlfcer. Well.
lies looking ror another, I hpar. vo
you know, Silly, I'm beginning tJ eel
queer. The way Aunt Margaret tarks
and so on makea me suspicious about
her intentions. Aiwi she' ordering
mo more clothes, 'and today we'ra
Utoiiig shopping to a Jeweler'. i
i Saw Adonis I mean Jack Upland
for ten Minutes this morning, ty'a
were talking in tho hall when auntie
came along. In plain KogliMi, she was
mad and sent him away o some er
rand. He is grand, Silly. 1 wish I
could see more of him. He has lunch'
eon with 'JJ, but that's all, and from
what I pather, with all the festivities
being planned ahead, we will be home
so seldom there will be no cbalics ot
Reelng blm even then. He Is awtolly
smart, too; seems to known every-'
thing and says ho prepared for law.
He's certainly hiding his light under
a bushel here. I don't take as much
Interest in all the excitement as I did ,
at first. U auntie only didn't fuxs so.;
I'd much prefer to improve my time
by talking to the secretary. He knows)
so many people everywhere, the best
people, too, If you please. I must
stop. Hastily, fc
......
Sunday, November 13. V
Dear Sister: Such a whirl as it bas
bcnn since I wrote last. From 12 m-
until 3 and 4 a. m. we hardly stop, I .
don't know how Aunt Margaret can
stand It, but sha Is a perfect Spartan
and determined to see me well chap
eroned. One thing Is clear, however.
she leaves me alone with B. P. every
chatict she gets In fact, all mammas
do. It's Hit plain as tho nose on your
face that he Is the catch of the sea-'
son. But I feel like calling blm papa,
and If he and auntie hare Axed up
anything between them they can get
over it. ' After tea I'm going to tell
you something about Jack. j
After Tea Here It la. Yesterday I
was up at eight, and after breakfast I
went to see how some of the
Japatieso sunfish in the fountain war
doing. Quite by accident I saw Jack.
And, Silly, dear, before I knew what
he was saying, he told me be loved
me, and before I knew what I wa
saying, I told him I loved him, too.
And he kissed me, and I ran away, ami
I haven't seen him since. If Aunt
Margaret finds It out she'll send mo
home and cut me off with a shilling,
but I shouldn't care, if I thought you'd
got it all instead of me. Oh, what
shall I do? I love Jack and I can't
bear old Portman. I Just hate being
thrown at any one'B head! I've about
mado up my mind to tell Aunt Marga
ret the truth in the morning, give her
back the pearl necklace and the brace
let and bandeau and the furs and
everything, and then pack my trunk
for home. But then there's Jack! He'll
lose his position if I tell. Oh, I don't
know what to do.
PEGGY.
Tuesday, November 15..
Dear Silly: Just a note. I'll write
details tomorrow. I'm the happiest
creature alive, for the most amazing
things have happened. Aunt Margaret
planned It all. She has known Jack
for years and wanted me to fall In
love with him. She said if I had
known about it I'd have been con
trary and fallen in love with some one
else! Girls always do. So she per
suaded Jack to bo her secretary and
asked me here on purpose. She said
her little opposition Just helped It
along, and I guess It did. But you'll
never believe me when I tell you the
rest. Bernard Portman Is Jack's un
cle and he knew all about it, too, and
Jack is his heir. Everybody Is so
happy! And I most of all.
Lovingly,
PEGGY.
(Copyright, 1916. by tlie MoClura Nwtp
tier Syndicate.)
