LATKA NEW
and Advertiser.
SERIES
VOL. XXIV. NO. 30.
PALATKA, FLORIDA FRIDAY. JULY 28, 1916.
$1.00 Per Year
THE
SER'S CONVENTION
ftSSUREOTO PALATKA
PALATKA BAPTISTS TO
CALL DRJOHSTEfL
Shepherd, State Presi- As Pastor Meeting of
W5fV Citir f.hnrr.li Mnvt Ui,i,w,.l,...
deI1 ' . H;,!i.i. ... o ...i
and uouimy. nigm m oeme
I Matter.
. , . to have tne iyio on-
?ala . ..-,-mfir's Educational I , "T 7
tdnn 01 i"c c : memoes o
"t",n tive Union of America. , , . .
.(o-opewtni. ui u church m this eit
-.i.tmiriMWU""- ... i ii. . .. '
I" V meeting last Monday night, i oeeuieu to exteiul a call to the pas-!
. ri J. J- Shepherd ot Weens- to rate to Rev. Dr. R. L. Boasted of i
. endsden county, who was wo- . Crescent Citv
. n -.,c. mnvp rnnn !
lined with
Li,i wire l
The members of the First Iiapti.it
have practically
REFMICiflT
G u h e r n a t o r i a 1 Vote in
Georgetown Precinct,
No. 2.
MR. EATTS HAKES
APPEAL jl) VOTERS
Says Courts Will Give Ju
dicial Sanction to
Fraud.
Does Net Object lo Fair Recount cf
Ballots Cast in PrimBry, tut
Charges Boe Have Been
Stuf;d.
This
Mn?;d Tu Sf, nnd that heade to The News representative
J. "" - .. .i . n-.l 1 :.. . . . .
tatement was
on
i..... n.,oft nf t i.o 1 Wednesday evpninp- ,v mm .r n.
n wire nesiueut i " " " "-
fhnt pffp.cf.. le.oi in j- mmliors nf th ..1. .i,.
liUH1'1 . it..: .n I'iMitroniiin . . . ... .
lust !'ea1' !iiu i oTTT" i lunmn' st.lteu tmlt there would be a
,;Jm oil iiouua -- ----- -
-Lin uiv-i nuteu tiitii. mere wouui Dc a
meeting of the congregation, on Wed-
In the Georgetown nrecinct thora
were 25 first clioice votes cast for (
govoi nor, distributed as follow,-;: !
Catt.i, 1; Karris, 7: Hudson, 1; Knott, I
5; Wood, 8. These were properly !
credited to the various candidates. I Rev. .Sidney J. Catts who holds the
Them were aNo 12 second choice votes i certificate of nomination as the dem
cast, but these were not credited so cc.atic candidate for governor has
canvassing board could tell : iust issued the fol owing anneal to
KNOTT AND CATTS
OTH GAIN VOTES
On the Recount Latest
Statement of Hon. W.
V. Knott.
that the
to whom they
Tuesday evening lion. W. V. Knott
who is contesting the nomination of
Rev. Sidney J. Catts for governor,
gave out the following signed state
ment: "In previous statements I have said
that there were mistakes and errors
made in tabulation of the votes cast
at the late primary election in many
L
iiu- ...i,' 'iTnntinn mir. f lfl
Mine the J'Jio w,""'77 . , ,7 1 nesiuiy evening, Hug. -u, when the I
decide on a place, that being leit , m.ltter wou!(J be ofticiallv determined.
"th Xetional and State presidents Rev. p. q, casoll re'tiriim' pastor
Vettfe. Several cities were bid-! of thu church, and who for several
for the convention. inally it ; vears )vas proven himself not only a
f , .i.. in l.nKeland and ra-! t.;,.i(,,.,i i i.. u.. i ...:..,
i... and l'alatka won. i and popular pastor and citizen, re-
worn ipteniloil. Vine I ,v.,:i.!( nf tlnB t-nto thrnmrii Vii counties ot tlie state, ana tnat a cor
i- . i. . . . :.. j i. i i i: i - - inn ft thnto miutnk-oc mill f'l-vnr
oi uic.-e are in ine iieao line un oosae
The Free Press of Jackson-
Muka won because coi. autpueiu. , tl),.lK.,i yesterdav trom his vacation
'"" i ,i.rc hovfl nnd made ... u-, ...u: i:...: .. ...
L.t a coupn: uyo , i , i llu " ui inninLuu opi iiigs, aim win
Vr. .:.i ih farmer dele- ,,., ,.i, ... c,,.,.i.,. i ....
Lsiiom the oS states of the union t.llijf Io will k.ave ca,.iy in the i'ol
"A W0ulii uather here at the great ,,;, week for his new charge in
" -Piiiion would see a greater uivei-; Tennessee. !
l-'rof farm crops, better Janus ioi ; it js true that presure was brought
I-. . . .....1 l-i.f Inn r'lfv i i i ir. . . i .
Leial tarniiiisj, a"u -yj , w uear on .ur. uson ro get nun to
Lp,i aKomodations and means for ; veconsider his resignation, and ha
.ertaii.mimt ior iub sv i agreeu to oo it, giviuir ms imai (io
sieised by an interior town ot one j cisi0!1 ou the coming Su tulay. Mi. .
Jtwo crop raising specialties. cason has kejit this promiso in so far ;
)Ir, Shepherd was called on ana j .,s reconiderinjr is concerned. lUi :
Lb to the g;:tnering iu txiu win also oinciaiiy announce tus decis-;
Ir , ,,w.Vi mi TnllrtWS! (: . o Jt.. i, ..... -if
trade l'OOins iuuv- . lun ouniuu. inn uuri i unx ol ;
......i. it irivps me trreat i r.,nfi.f i-.ti,vr.., .,.,.1 w-;.-.
La;Ure to bo among you and SC3 . ters go to church next Sunday expee- :
Mr prOgiesMt; wij- Mv. x,..JVj ; nn (ihit uiu iueu kilui m uuLiut.- ;
lifctalitv. 1 have naa ni . to remain in l'alatka, lor you would!
ill in-
lii i-(wii'-ii.it inn luMtKr ncci'nt-
i . I , .1 rt n i .
j afternoon nas revau w "' oil.
M of the most magnificent fields j Palatkans are going to miss Taster :
i'.. i di w saw. I have traveled r-.w.- In. hn l-i kpvpi-hI voium
Ler.iively in IS states, but I want , j ti1;s t- i t y and is popular with all'
savtoyou that in an my vraei . classes. lie is a tine preacher an.l '
bve never seen better corn crops , pastor, and has built, up his church ;
ra better soil than right here m in rtv ulllii today it is one of the !
oar countv. It was a marvel to me, , Pcogmzed strongholds ot the denomi-
a I am sure that it will be a signt n:lti ;n Florida. He will be great- ;
please the great gathering of j y misscd. i
rmer delegates attending the con-i i;ev, . I,. P.onsteel is com para-!
Hion of our union." , i lively new in Florida. A little more
Col. Shepherd then told sometning i than a year ago he came to the state
the delegations attending conven- .,, w:!S sent. to Crescent City. He
k of the union of which he is the ' tooi; ,0(i 0f ;l struggling church there
iorida head. These delegates rep- , .,, jn a year's time has placed it on
rier.tcd small, poor farmers and . jt!! churc'hlv feet so it van stand -
.titers who cultivated tens of Uious- w;thout props. He lias doubled the
of acres and who were in the , membership and has made a record
jlior.aire class. Among them were f01. rising money for local and out
oie of the brightest platform speak-: i,e.,cvolenfes that places tlm
in tlie country, men wnoiu uiu f1"" , ( rescent i uv i nurcn among uu- hvc
..'.Ill Vnoi-innF TTp . . ... I.M
rection of those mistakes and errors
by a fair and accurate count would
show that I was duly nominated.
Putnam County.
'I have just had a report from the
recount of the vote cast in Putnam
county, and the same shows changes
for the various candidates in many
precincts. The recount of twenty
seven precincts however, shows a net
s'ain in mv tavor ot twelve votes, i
of tality. 1 have had my eyes t0 1-0ruain in Palatka, for you
peaed also to your farming possi- i i,0 disappointed. The News hi
tie. A trip over several miles ! V!UU,0 information that he' wi
..nntiiriiniis to Palatka1 ; , .... i.,.:.,..
IMCUUiini ----- , .-i.--1.
VI
ty
!e of this city will enjoy hearing. He
:d his remarks witn tne staie-.
:r.t that he had been sent to Palat
w iVoiti,..,! Ttm-i-ptt nf the Na-
ior.ai Union to decide whether or
; the convention this fall should be
ad in l'alatka, and, said he, "I am
.ir.g from this meeting to the tele-,
aph office and wire him that Pa- j
.... .:,. t. I
runs.
imps m orula
liefore entering the ministry only
a few years ago, Mr. lionstcel was
an attorney. His conversion resulted
in his also feeling a divine call to
the ministry. He took a theological
course ami' after graduation tilled a
few minor appointments before decid
ing to come to Florida.
It,, is an able preacher, intensely
Col. Shepherd's remarks were , evangelical, and always practical,
ir.d'.y applauded. j He takes an interest in the affairs of
There was some preliminary discus-1 ,). t.;n- i ,vhich he lives and the couu
m I'PcnriliMif the tint nr of enter- . ,. ,..;,,,.,...iv. for he is one minister
binment the board had best provide j v,-'no "believes that he is a "citizen of
rme city coming guests, anu wiiuu . menn country. ne nms u. no
) definite arrangements will be made . on,. .,n,j the despised and the suf
'.fl the appointment of a committee, : peril' s and succors them. His sym
m Reneiallv thought that auto-I .,1i,j,,s are hro:'d: they reached info
pile trips about the close-in farm- j j.;0l.rium soon after the desolation o'
? sections, the camphor farm ana t ),.,(. country by the German arnn ano
teat ride to Crescent City would , ,p Vi)ied bjg contributions for the re-
'turally be decided on as altording i ii,.r of the stricken people
Jnd
an
of li
r:
the
niO'-t pii invfil.lp otitorninniptlt.
Col. Shepherd stated that the con-
Jon would bring at least 500 peo-
to the citv.
Presi.lpr.t l' ni'L'u' woo nn
ippoint ii Knoral committee to have
Res of the convention, and he stated
ne would announce his committee
havinsr n-ivnn nmA thoiifht to
make-up.
!t is known that Gov. Trammel!,
Km Fletcher and Bryan will be
6 and nniLinoe Viq cnnnlarc rt Vp1-
the delegates to Florida,
is also known Hint, nn pffnrt will
made to secure the presence of
-SIDEXT WILSON.
:ter
me
EE
Ecoticoiial Reasons,
'fflir ,!..,. ., ,!.,.. ..liMs,. !iis tail?"
"!' niaiip 'loili ..ml.! meet, you
pi? :"-U; 1 1 .,, nieriean.
OPPOSITION.
certain amount of ooDosi-
''on is a great help to a man.
" ' what he wants and must
hav to be good for anything.
Hardhir. .
; 'he native soil of manhood and
rcnanco. John Neal.
ii.. i ....mnleted a nastorium
in Crescent City at a cost of about
S2 000. and has also greatlv lieauti-
Hed th" chi h house. He'll build a
nastorium in Palatka if he comes
Mrs TVnsteel is a charming lady
nnd a trained church worker, having
for some time previous to her mar-rian-o
to IV. lionstcel in January last
been the Superintendent ot the Ro
man's Missionary movement in Geor-
S'nr. Ponsteel is about b! years of
a.r0 vigorous in body and mind and
ev-Hes iust enough flesh to make
him appear good natured. even should
he have tooth ache.
An August Wedding
Invitations have this week been is
sued hv Mr. and Mrs. C. A. T.pHavdy
of this citv to the marriage ot then
ghter. Miss Beie . iaiv t ..
Mr. P.eniami'i Poykin iaiic.
rn Wed'K-.h'v afternoon. August fin.
o'clock. 'in St. Marks Episcopal
The'bride is a mort atiractivo
J 1 voun"- ladvv and Ingniy accon , ..
i wTth a large circle of Vala ka and
ounty friends. Mv. Paney na son
i ' of Ii P. Pancv of Orange Mills, and
I a voung man' with a most proni
n; future in the business world. Tor
i i Cnmp time he ha been m commercial
........ liines in this city.
Knott charged:
"That in precinct No. 2 of said
county the inspectors and clerk
appointed to hold said election,
failed and neglected to pel form
their duties as inr.pecfoiv and
clerk, in that:
ial While they were canvass
ing the vote cast in said precinct
at raid election for said office,
they did not themselves personally
call and tally the votes cast for
the relator and the said Calls re
spectively; that they permitted
outside parties, who were parti
sans of the said Catts and not in
spectors and not under oath or
otherwise qualified to act, to as
sist in calling and tallving the
votes cast for the relator and J
other candidates for said office
respectively, at said election; j
that the said outsiders did not j
correctly call and tally said votes, j
and the incorrect call and tally I
made by such outsiders in part
formed' the basis of the pretend
ed returns sent in by the said in-
specters and clerk to the Super- i
wot Registration and loun-
.Judge from said precinct;
lb) That the said inspectors
and clerk appointed to hold said
election in said precinct further j
failed to perform their duty in ;
that the returns of said election
sent in by them to the Super- !
visor of Registration and County '
Ige respectively, are incorrect
1 do not show the true number
t and second choice vo'.e-
ist for the relator and the slid
atts respectively as appears up
n the ballots cast by the elo.'iors
oting at said precinct; that a
rrect call, tally and return of
votes cast m said precinc,
will show a substantial gam ot
.ii-st and, econd clioice veils 'P
favor of the relator; that the re
kit r i-: entitled to have the votes
cast in said precinct No. 2 cor
net! v counted, tallied and return
ed s'o as to ascertain the true
' number of first and second choice
votes cast for the relator and the
I said Catts respectively,
j Every other precinct in the county
was recounted, and as a result of that
; recount Mr. Knott gained 12 votes
; votes that were cast for him. but
1 which through errors in tabulating,
: were ' not properly credited. With
the Georgetown precinct recounted,
' Mr. Knott would gain 17 and possi
bly 21 votes in this county.
It is a fine showing and one which
i rellects greatly to the credit of the
I Putnam county inspectors and clerks,
i The work on election night was done
; hurredlv and after a strenuous day,
w hen tliese inspectors and clerks were
tired and anxious to get through. The
j mistakes were made in tabulating
! -econd choice votes.
! With Mr. Catts lead of but 2t.O
j votes in the entire State according
! to the original returns, and knowing
;,s he did that these mistakes had
been made. Mr. Knott was justified m
i -skin" that these mistakes be cor
1 reded and that he be given ALL THE
! VOTES THAT WERE CAST FOR
jHlM That is what our courts are
for to see that every man gets jus-
I ticec.
1 Of course these Georgetown pre
Icinct inspectors had to show cause
!l,v demurrer why they were umvill-vn.-nnnt.
these votes and they
had until yesterday to demur. What
the Supreme Court win uo io uiau
demurrer has not been learned in
this city last night.
But the report that these men
in contempt ot tne supreme
u.e name oi .ur. ivuoii. it- is pos;u- , ...
ble that he is entitled to them all. vllle:
And it is possible that he is entitled To the People of the State of Florida;
lo but live of them. He is certainly I Above all things, it appeals to me
entitled to live, but nothing short of i that we must reSpect the sacredness
a recount of the votes will determine. f th set,.et ballot and the integrity
As the record stands he will get none. , . b J
The inspectors were led to believe : and sanctity ot our courts. Both of
that they were charged with making ; these principles must be maintained
aa incorrect return of the vote. i !.ml ..tU' nvnc.rvpil in mvlpl' to
as a matter of fact there was no such I holil anil inernetiiate the resnect am advised that the attorneys for
charge. ( an(j stability of our republican form Mr. Catts have prevailed upon the in-
In his petition to the Supreme ; 0f government. The Democratic par- spectors in Precinct No. 2 of that
Court, on which an alternative writ of I tv bos nlunvs led in its emlnnvora ennntv to fil n demurrer to the al-
mandamus was granted for a recount, i to uphold these two fundamental prin- I terna'tive writ issued by the supreme
ciples of government; and I stand up- court, which will be brought up for
cn the foundation rock of Democracy hearing before the supreme court as
and call for all true Democratss to soon as possible.
rally to the banner of Democracy and j "The original tally sheet sent in
help preserve their party. j by the inspectors from that precinct
In the present contest that is being , shows that the second choice vote
pushed by W. V. Knott in his mad was not properly tallied, and that the
endeavors to become governor, at t county canvassing board, on that ae
whatevcr price, he has insulted the ; count, could not properly credit the
courts by permitting frauds to be respective candidate with the number
commuted in his favor and so plac- of second choice votes to which they
ing his case before the courts that ! were each entitled. The distribution
these frauds must receive the judi- j of the first choice votes appearing on
cial sanction; and he has insulted th-3 ! said tally sheets shows that I will
citizenship of Florida by allowing j gain from five to nine secoild choice
himself to be the beneficiary of frauds I votes when properly tallied. As soon
.. 1 iUn iMi-luo thp ; .... fli.i ... l.n 1 ... f i nn pun bp pomnlptpd T
JJC1 JJt .1 I tl L13U U".ll ll.V. IX tMV. . v.. 111. L(t'M,'...l." ' - I
ballot. ..allot boxes .nave apparent- : shall turnisn to me puuue u laouiu
ly been broken into since the pri-; ted comparison of the returns as first
riiary election on June 0 and the bal- i sent in by the inspectors of that coun
lots changed. Recounts have been , ty, and of the returns as made by
asked by Mr. Knott in the precincts 1 them on the recount,
where these ballots have apparently i from Suwannee County,
been changed and he claims to have , h a COmplete tabulation of
gained many vo es by tins method. i fii. , secom, returns senc in
I have defended the virtue of the: inspCC.tors of Suwannee cotm-
secret ballot and the sanctity of oui , J A RtwW of thege t.lbula.
courts to the limit; but no lawyer can, ; (jons wU, j thjnki convilH.e anv fair
vth clean hands, win ? cas whera ; m , iU of this statc that the
the evidence has all been manufactur- ; w tQ asccl.tain the trus vote
ed against him, and no court can re- - , 'fVlA vo,nPptive candidates for
WILL CLOSE NEXT
SATURDAY NIGHT.
From the way the organizations
are fighting for ballots in the great
Library Contest, Saturday, July 29th,
promises to be big day in Palatka.
The great Library Contest which
has been running in Palatka for fif
teen weeks, closes Saturday evening
promptly at 9:00 o'clock. No ballots'
will tie allowed to be played in the
ballot box which is placed at the Ack-crman-Stewrui't
Drug Co., after 9:00
o'clock. There will be extra provis
ions made for the ballots which un
doubtedly the ballot box will not hold.
We feel quite safe in saying that
fully a hundred thousand ballots have
been held in reserve and will not be
cast until the closing hours of the
contest.
The great question today is which
of the leading contestants is good to
win? All members of different or
ganizations and their friends will be
very busy Saturday purchasing goods
and paying their accounts at the dif
ferent places of business and doing
everything possible to obtain votes,
as several of them are so close in the
race that it will be impossible to tell
who has won until every ballot is
counted.
Watch next week's News which will
tell you which organization is the
proud possessor of this elegant li
brary and handsome case.
Following is the standing of this
week s count:
Palatka High School
Palatka Public Library
P.. P. O. E.
K. of P.
M. W. of A.
I. O. O. F.
Presbyterian Church
W. O.' W.
Red Men
Catholic Club
Moose (Tub
Woman's Club
Hastings High School
Baptist Club
M. E. Church
144,789
178,522
19,002
10,908
1,250
1,235
290
2
19,329
19,002
17.27G
13,041
20,281
10,054
7,043
vi lence that is before it. I do not
o! iect to any fair recount of the bal
lots that were cast in the primary
election ou .Tune (, but I do object to
counting ballots for Mr. Knott, or
mvsi-lf, or any other man, that have
been placed in the ballot boxes since
the election was held. If I were to
...-..(.lit. In- nnv such fraud. I would
crtainly consider myself unworthy of
high office ol governor.
I am the regular Democratic nomi
ee for governor for the state of Flor
1... I was so declared by a count
ml canvass of the ballots made by
same officials whom Mr. Knott is
. attempting, by court proceedings,
c impel to declare him the nominee.
1 had lost the nomination in the
i ogular canvass, I certainly would
have abided by the returns. If these
-anie officials could return and re
canvass the same ballots that were
cast. I certainly would not object. It
has been conclusively shown that all
the same ballots do not now exist and
i:-ce fraud has been committed in
some instances in Mr. Knott's favor,
1 cannot rest my ease with such a
contest.
I am going into the November elec
tion as a Democrat and as a regular
1 'emocratic nominee for governor.
The courts may be compelled on ac
count of fraudulent recounts to place
th
:h
If
Preoaredness !
'S Ti i i A. i.r-i oft THE HOUR
' Personally, "preparedne.." should interest you. Renting one nf our
safe deposit boxes
apers
ips cr
by .y.tem) amJ d.p.Uing there in your Deeds, Mortgage.. I"P
ly'J other valuable property ould be "prepatedre agn.mt
..?!'.lte nd thieves. n i tsM mr vear.
w have three sizes of boxes that rent for ?3.Ul,
'"r Cani,al j q 1,,, f $148,000.00 is our Ruarantee to
Pttr customers.
Respectfully.
PUTNAM RATIONAL BAHK OF PALATKA
v.- Knntt's nnmo on the ticket, riut I Liarin;
1 to the noonle of Flori- mnlo.
da to uphold the sanctity and integri
ty of our courts by stamping their
disapproval upon any scheme by any
individual to take advantage of a
fraud in court proceedings, and I shall
appeal to the people of Florida -to
fiv.rd with undying jealousy the pu
ritv nnd virtue of our secret ballot.
Mv name will be on the ticket in the
November election as the Democratic
candidate for trovernor.
SIDNEY J. CATTS.
Mrs. Brown in Oregon.
Mrs. M. S. Brown of this city who,
with her daughter, Miss Rena flrown.
has been spending the past several
weeks in Baltimore, left that city on
Tuesday for Portland, Oregon, where
she will attend a meeting of the Na
tional order of Pythian Sisters.
Pi'latkans will remember that at
tbe Inst nntionnl convention of this
irnvonnv is to have tne oaliots re
counted. Below is shown the total
votes cast for each candidate and a
comparison of the two will show that
;he veto cast for no candidate was
correctly tabulated by all precincts on
the first count. I call attention also
to comparison of the tabulations of
each precinct individually. The tabu
lation shows there was only one pre
cinct in Suwannee county where the
first returns were absolutely correct
s to all candidates. That precinc:
was No. 17. I
"I:; precinct No. 1 the only change i
in fir--t cr second choice votes was a
Vsn of one lust choice vote by Mr.
Catts.
"In precinct No. 2 there were
-'v.nges in the tabulation of the vote
for every candidate. On the recount
Mr. Catts gained both on first choice
and second choice votes. 1 r.Vo gain
ed on first choice votes and second
choice votes. Farris lost one first
choice, vote, but gained on second
choice' votes. Hudson gained one
first choice vot and seven scond
choice votes. Weeds' first choice
votes rer-ir.ined the same, but he
gained one second eho:ce vet '.
"Li precinct No. 3 there --re only
slight changes far any cividi.b le.
Changes for All Candidates.
"In nrecinct No. 4 there were
teetor,
i j i
nn or. .Mrs. lirown was monui uu o.v
election to the office of Supreme Pro-
and therefore it is as a Mi-
that she attends this
national meeting, ana not as a dele
gate from Florida.
Mrs. Brown, will, however, be the
.-...I,- l-pm-oopntitivp from this State.
; the regular delegate nnd her alternate
would be in contempt ot tne BUp.eu
( own is oaseivs. - ---
contempt. The court issued an al
e, nadve writ, and they had the right
to demur, but must show cause for
. mi. n mntr -t tin Iff
refusal. . i n.s ."". - tho refrillar delegate nn
o-ood. or it may be cast aside and a , nMn tl1 rtPnd.
peremptory writ issued. In ad,i;tion to the honor of being
The inspectors in No. 2 were A. n. nfficcer of the Pvthinn
. , -ii i T itmoi. and .1. Vj. " e-''' - . i, . , .
Met aSKIU, V 11,
Tucker, Jr., and S. It. Causey, clerk.
Sisters, Mrs. Brown is the Florida
State 0rgr.ni7.er, and Inspector, and
such she is perhaps more inmiuar
; ; ;vith the work of the order th her
rinpst new 191. Cane rup, , tl.nlli.n,1T tllf
in new Cypress narrcis.
nlso a
4- full line of staple ana w
Groceries. Full weight ana ii
quality at th' store
4, I,. (. I r. l ii r...-..
t'! ivirey .ii-
olitovc in thp work throughout the
State. Mrs. Brown is a lady of
broad culture and deep sympathies
and she not only takes a deep inter
est in the work of this, her heloved
order, hut in all charitable and uplift
work by whomsoever done.
as to nil candidates. For ex-
'."0 first tabulation showed one
second choice for me in the Farris
column, when there was no firs! ck.
votes cast for Farris. The ic- i f
in this precinct also gave Mr. C.'U-twenty-eight
first choice votse, when
the original count gave hiin only
twci.ty-five.
"In' precinct No. 5 most of the er
rors appear to nave been mrcie oy
not counting the second choice votes
at all.
"In precinct No. 8 there were
chrnges as to every candidate. Far
ris on the recount was given one first
choice, while none on the first c"ir'
Hudson gained five first choice. Wood
lost two first choice.
"tn precinct No. 12 the e we more
changes than in any other precinct
in the county. The inspectors ex
planation of those changes have been
referred to in previous statements,
and as previously stated I have been
furnished with a' signed statement by
fifty-seven persons that they voted
in said precinct first choice for me.
Mr. Catts Made Gains.
"In precinct No. 20 it appears that
no second choice votes were counted
on the first tabulation at all. On the
recount the first choice votes remain
ed the same, but Mr. Catts gained
two second choice votes from Mr.
Hudson and three second choice from
Wood. Besides his gains in this pre
cinct, the tabulation shows that he
gained in several other precincts. I
have not charged tnat nis gains m
those precincts were due to frauds
practised in his behalf, nor do I sur
pose Mr. Catts 'desires to assert the
there was. Mr. contention now, and
it has always been, is that the
changes were due to errors and mis
takes in the first tabulation on ac
count of tho inspectors not under-
Rev. Sidney J. Catts Here.
Rev. Sidney J. Catts, gubernatorial
candidate who was awarded the nomi
nation by the State canvassing board,
and perhaps the most discussed and
cussed man in all Florida today,
spent Friday in the city a guest at
the-Putnam House. Mr. Catts visited
the court house but took no part in
the recount proceedings then going
on.
Those who saw and talked with him
were impressed with him as being a
man of great power and ability,
though a radical of the radicals and
holding views on some questions tiiat
are regarded by many as threaten
ing the disruption of the democratic
party.
That Mr Catts knows how to pull
the political strings in a manner to
:cite the prejudices of his a-lherents
.-..-.s prov'l in interviews h? gave cut
' various citizens.
He is ceitainly a wonderf ;i man.
standing the law, or for some other
. eason.
"I i the statement of Mr. Catts ap
pearing in Tuesday afternoon's Me
tropolis, I note that he says: 'I have
ml gained one net vote in any pre
inct. In reply to this I call atten
tion to the tabulation given below
of precincts No. 11, 10 and 20. In
precinct No. 11, Mr. Catts made a
net gain over me of four votes, in
precinct No. l!i, he retained all that
was given him on the first count imo
I lost one. In precinct No. 20 Mr.
Catts made a net gain of five second
ihoice votes.
"I note also from Mr. Catts' state
ment that 1 had 'omitted to explain
to you that neither of the other four
candidnes for governor had gained
in the recount of either of the pre
cincts he has had recounted.' I know
of only three other candidates and the
tabulation of Suwannee county show.,
that both Farris and Hudson gained.
Figures liig Majority.
"The results as shown by the re
count in Putnam and Suwannee coun
ties are fairly indicative of what hap
pened in the other counties of the
state. Figured on the basis of my
net gain in Putnam county multiplied
by fifty-two, would increase my vote
1,000 and give me a majority over Mr.
Catts of over 700 votes. Figured ou
the basis of my net gain in Suwannee
county, multiplied by fifty-two, would
give me for the entire state, some
thing like 3,500 majority over Mr.
Catts.
"In previous statements I have at
tempted to make clear the reasons for
the considerable gains in my behalf
wherever recounts are made. One of
those reasons is that three out of four
of those electors who voted for Far
ris, Hudson or Wood, nlso cast their
second choice vote for me. Upon a
correct count and tabulation of the
second choice votes, where they were
not counted or were improperly tal
lied in the first instance, must, there
fore, necessarily produce greater
gains for me that for Mr. Catts.
"I have previously said that all I
want is a fair and accurate count of
the votes. When I have secured this
I am confident that the result will
show I was nominated in the primary
by several hundred majority.
"Respectfully submitted.
W V TTr,tf
-'.;:;'!'.
i
fir!1:',.
ii-
