. vJ1 X-j 3V
biiRANT Weekly News
OFFICIAL l'Al'Elt OF II It Y A N COUNTV
-' ' -i-1. ..r.'.: - " : a .:
VOLUaiB xx.
DURANT, OICLAHOMA, VRIDAY,irULY 2H, 1010.
NUMHER THIRTY
DENISON MAN INVENTS
d A NEW MUSIC DEVICE
DANISH WEST INDIES I PRUDENT TO STAND BY
'ORESEE AMERICA AS
WOODEN SHOE NATION
DEAL READY TO CLOSE i THE NAVAL PROGRAM
i
- . WHra
x J.X&
i
f
1
fc
:fl
V
.
N
Mi
1
..?.
rr,
&
mil' ,Mfr 6 ntl by Texns Man
Instnu
'
May lh . of tho Greatest
Invention - ' Rccndc.
What may bo a v,' -wont oc
curred In Donlson 'k .. fy vn,nK
at 8 o'clock when a smJ 6.w,d ot
inutile lovers and memb3i of tho
city cpmmlBalon and Chamber of
Commcrco wcro guests of Percy C.
Preston, at 311 WcBt Woodard St.,
when ho gave an exhibition of his
invention, tho pipcano.
This Instrument can with but
slight changes bo attached to any pi
ano, and is equal in tono to tho fin
est pipe organ mado. The Instrument
used last evening wa3 tho third con
Htr'ucted by the Pipoano Company,
which Is composed of Mr. PrcBton
and E. B. Luko of Ardmore, Okla.,
and to tho people who were his
guests last uight it appeared that he
had reached perfection in his Instru
ment. Whlio it Is equal In tono to
any pipe organ, rogardless of price,
It can bo manufactured and sold for
about one-fifth tho money, which in
expected to give Its promoters an un
limited field for sales.
Tho audionce was very enthusias
tic, and many of those present wero
very anlous that a stock company bo
organizeu at onco for its manufac
ture. But tho inventor, Mr. Preston,
stated that it was not hlB Intention,
at present, to organizo a company, as
ho and his partonr had amplo capital
to carry it along in a modest way."
Dcnison Morning- Gazette.
EXCISE HOARD MEETS NEXT
SATURDAY
Tho County Excise Board moots
"hero Saturday to make tax levies for
the city, county and the various
townships and school districts. The
Board comprises County Clerk Mc
Crcary, County Judge Rappolce.
County Attorney Turnbull, County
Treasurer Harrison and County Su
perintendent Mcintosh.
DEUTCHLAND'S SAILING IS
DELAYED.
Baltimore, Md., July 26. "Cir
cumstances and r conditions over
which wo have no control are keep
ing us Ift Baltimore. Thero Is no
cause for alarm from any source.
At tho proper time we will get away.
Thore 1b time for everything."
Thus did Captain Paul Kocnig,
commander of tho Gorman merchant
Biihmarino Doutchlnnd" explain his
presence In Baltimore when asked
what yas delaying his stlling.
Wjhnt these "clrcumatnncoH-nnd
conditions" are Captain Koenlg
would not oven hint.
He laughed heartily when asked
If he felt a souse of uneasiness as tho
time draws nearer for his departure
on his perilous voyage.
"What is there to rear?" ho re
pilod: "Tho ocean is big and deep."
ORATORICAL TREAT AT THE
NORMAL SATURDAY
Noxt Saturday night tho county
candidates will have an opportunity
of tolling tho poople of Durant won.
heretofore have been denied tho
prlvilogo just why thoy want tho
particular office to which they as
pire and for which thoy bolieve they
are particularly fitted .and will also
be afforded a chance to toll, If they
wish, why their rivals are unfitted
of the Jobs thoy ask for. There will
no doubt be a large audience, and
it is expected that about all of the
candidates will be on hand.
Tho ovenf promises to he full of
interest and is being looked forward
to with no small degroo of enthusi
asm by the candidates and with a
certain nmovnt of speculation hf
the general public. If any of tho
candidates can spring anything real
new in his own behalf, ho will cer
tainly engage and hold the attention
of his hearers.
PRORATE COURT
,In the County Court, in 'the matter
or L. M. Mitchell, deceased, J. C.
Mitchell files petition for letter of
administration, also petition for pro
bate of will.
DWELLING RURNED
. Monday night at 10:45 o'clock fire
was discovered in the residence of
I Mrs. A. E. Sowell. The fire depart
ment auccecded in confining tho
flames to the kitchen and dining
room, although tho contents of both
of these rooms was a total loss. The
Iobb to Mrs. Sowell ia about $200,
while that to the house, owned by W.
.). Lester, was about the same.
Official Announcement In Made mid Official Word -Is Given That Ho Re
XrRDtlntloiiH for tho Purchase of
Inlands About Completed.
Washington, July 26 - Official
announcement has been made at the
Whlto Houbo that negotiations have.'
practically been completed for tho
purchase of tho Danish West Indies
by the United StateB for $25,000.-
000. A troaty closing the trnnmic
ulren t!ir Acceptance of the
, I Senate Provision.
Washington, July 26. Presldont
Wilson has determined to stand
squarely behind the increased Sen
ate naval building program. Offi
cial word that hit) desire that the
Senate provisions be accepted by tho
House in ennfprenen was sent from
tion will be signed Immediately and 'the White Houce to administration
sent to tho Sepate. leaderB at the capltol, where con-
While details of the treaty have forces will begin consideration of
not boon given out, it in understood the naval bill within a Tow days,
the United States would come into Representative Buchanan of Illln
comploto possession of the l$&nds.jolB, a member of the naval commlt
Word has been received from Den-' fee '(temporarily blocked referenco
mark that the treaty is practically , of the measure to conference in the
certain of being ratified by the Dan-1 House yesterday, but the rules com
ish parliament.
Chairman Stone of tho Sonnte For
legn Relations Committee had an in
torvlow with the President yesterday,
but afterward said he had not dls-
lnlttqc will bo ready to force that
disposition of the bill when the
House meets again Thursday.
ether President Wilson's lnflu-
onccjwlll he sufficient to put tnrougu
cussed th epurchasc It is understood! tho blg Sonate program carrying
the government hopos tho troaty will ' provision for immediate construction
be ratified during tho present sesalon 'of -four dreadnaughts and four bat
of Congross. tio-Muisors. and a threeyear contin-
The throe islandfl or the Danish ' uingjbuildlug program, is uncertain.
Wont Indies St. Croix, Ct. Thomas, j Secretary Daniels has written to
and St. John lie duo eaBt of Porto ' Chairman Padgltt urging that the
Itico, and their valuo to tho United Senate amendment stipulating that
States is strategic from a military jtlic proposed naval laboratory be lo
point of viow. The harborB of St. Icated in tho capital be stricken out
Croix and St. Thomna are of first im-lln conference. He transmitted a
portancc to tho American navy, and
St. Thomas Itself lies in the lino of
shipping from Europe to the Panama
Canal. Important German and Eng
lish mail companies have coaling
stations there. Tho acquisition o
the Islands by the United States has
beon tho subject of unsuccessful di
plomats negotiations since the Civil
War.
Repnblifcan
Advertise
Republican County Ticket
Representative Samuel W. Maytubby, Caddo, Okla.
County Jjidgc C. H. Kiting, Durant, Oklahoma.
County Attorney Robert Crockett, Durant, Oklahoma.
Court Clerk L. II. Cox, Hondriv, Oklahoma.
County Clerk Lorlng-W. Frnzier, Ilokchito, Oklahoma.
County TrcaHtirci William Malonc, Caddo, Oklahoma.
Sheriff Thomas J. Sexton, Durant, Oklahoma.
Assessor W. S. Hawkins, Yuba, Oklahoma.
Superintendent of Public Instruction A. E. McCrcnry,
of Caddo, Oklahoma.
For County Surveyor L. II. Hnmil, Durant, Oklahoma.
County Commissioners
- First District Joseph Duncan, Durant, Oklahoma.
Second District O. W. Wolls Yunabj. Oklahoma. '
Third District .1. W. Lewis, Ilokchito, Oklahoma.
To tho ISopubllcan Voters of Bryan County, Oklahoma:
Tho Republican Committee has given above thq names of
tho Kupuhliqan candidates for the County Offices.
Tho Republican County Commltteo urges upon the ' Republican-
voters of Bryan County tho Importance of every Republi
can voting In the coming primary election to bo held on Aug
ust 1st. 'J
This le desired for two important roasons: That wo may
have tho full party vote, if possiblo, for our ticket, and that
you may. vote upon tho nine Constitutional amendments
We aro interested in Initiative Petition No. 55, and State
Question No. 82, which wo uudorsfnnd will bo seventh in tho
printed form as It will appear at tho polls. Tho way to voto
against this proposition will bo as follows: Hunt up at tho
bottom or tho proposition tho expression "FOR THE AMEND
MENT", nnd through these throo words run a lino with u
load pencil, and be sure that you have, a good black onp that
will make a good strong" lino through theso throo words, in this
wny you voto againBt tho pro losltlon. Now. Mr. Republican Vot
er, if you drop this sheet with thoso amendments upon them in
tho ballot box without erasing the3e three words ith a load
pencil, yon will voto for this proposition. The proposition that
wo are Interested In is comramonly known as the Literacy Teat.
v.. .-' ':-,' m i-
Signed) . REPUBLICAN- CAMPAIGN -COMMITTEE
GOOD ROADERS POSTPONE TOUR
President C. O. Johnson of tho Ok
lahoma, Texas and Gulf Highway
Association hns announced that the
inspection tour that was to have
been made by the officials of this
highway and of the Meridian High-
iway this, month, hnB been postponed
until October 5th. According to Mr.
Johnson, the trip will bo made im
mediately after the big wheat show
at Wichita, Kansas. ,
From that point the party will go
over the Meridicn Highway and then
on to the Oklahoma, Texas and Gulf
Highway.
.Tho party will go to Wlchlfa on
the train, nnd thoro will be cars-p'ro-"
vldefd fo the run over the- Meridian
JjHgfcwiiy .each ' county furnishing?
cars sufficient. to canvey tho inspec
tion party through, the county. The
party will bd composed of prominent
men of the country through which
the highway passes, and several high
State officials have slgified their In
tention of making the trip, among
them being Col. A. N. Leecraft, mem
ber of tho State board of public af
fairs, and W. E. Danford, State high
way commissioner.
The trip will be n delightful one,
and at the same time will be valua
ble in the cause of good roads.
letter rrom tho naval consulting
.board suggesting that the location
should be left to tho discretion ot"
the Navy Department.
FOR
B.VLRWIX NOT CANDIDATE
REPRESENTATIVE ,
Dr. J. H. Baldwin or Calera, who
had riled nr. a cnndldate ror the' Leg
islature from this county, requests
CURRIN-TAMES WEDDING
On the 22nd of this month at Sul
phur Springs, Texas, occuired the
marriage of Mr. J. Dial Currln, or
Durant, and Miss Jessie James, or
Sulphur Springs. Tho ceremony was
'performed at tho bride's home, whore
tne ItOYh KUSSIMI . Wllliuaiue, pua-
tor ofjfcfle Baptist church at Sulphur
Springs, ofHclatPd. A number or in
vited guests were present. Immed
iately aftqr the ceremony, Mr. and
Mrs. Currin took a short trip to Dal
las and other Texas points, and re
turned to, Durant, where they are
domiciled in the groom'a homo at
624 North Second Avenue. On tho
return trip thoy wero met at Den
lson by Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Hatchett,
in tholr car, and made the trip ovor
lj.nd'in automobile from DenlBon to
Durant..
. Tilrtbride Is the daughter of Mr.
and .Mrs. ,C 0 James, oC Sulphur
fjprings, rw.trere ahe .waa born and
reared. She- has taught school for
two yars at SaujAntonio. She is a
young lady of charming personality
and winning ways, to .whom the peo
ple of Durant extend a sincere wel
come. Tho groom is one of Durant? most
promising young business men. He
is junior member of the firm of
Downing Grocery Company, and ha,s
been in business here for several
,0-irs, where hl3 etrorts appear to
have been crowned, with success. Ho
was born and raised In Hopkins,
Countyfluxas.
The News joins In congratulations
and expressions of good will.
SPLENDID AORICUITURAL CON
DITIONS IN TEXAS.
In tho irrigated aroa tit South
Texa woiujrjrrul agricultural con
ditions exist. Some of the land is
not Irrigated. In a letter to Y. F.
t'mwllritmt ilnitnHlilllir j-nMilltlrinu nf
t!o cotton crop around Corpus Chrls
,tl, Colonel Joo W. Allison has this
to say:
"A unique spectacle has been pre
sented lr that country which I ven
ture to say Iuib never been witnessed
before. The seed caught at tho gins
(hns been taken hack home, and
planted tho next day.
"The recent rains In that country
have created a condition almost un
believable. Mr. Baldwin told me
that he had planted cotton in Feb
ruary the seed had lain absolutely
dominant in the ground until the
rain' came on July 7th: tho rain
camo about dark on Friday evening
nnd continuod all night. On Saturday
It cleared away and firteen hundrod
acres which had been brown and
bare tho evening berore wai green
with new cotton by Saturday noon.
"He told me, too .that on his place
In adjoining fields, the day he left
home, mon were planting cotton,
chopping cotton, .hunting Tor boll
weevils In Inrected bolls .and lay
ing by cotton. Truly may It be said
that we deal with the most wonder
ful agricultural product In tho world.
RURAL CARRIER EXAMINATION
The United States Civil Service
Commission has announced an exam
ination Tor the County ot Bryan,
Oklahoma, to be held at Durant on
the 26th or August 1016, to fill the
position of rural carrier at Durant,
and vacancies that may occur later
on rural routeB from other post of
rices in tho above-mentioned county.
The examination will be open only
to male citizens who are actually
domiciled in tho territory or a post
orrico in the county and who meet
the other requirements set forth in
Form No. 1977. This form and ap
plication blanks may be obtained
from the office mentioned above,
v from the United States Civil Ser
vice Comlssion at Washington, D.
C. Applications should be forwarded
to the Commission at Washington at
the earliest practicable date.
OlvliAHOMA GETS $115,5)80 FOit
THE STATE ROADS
Washincton. July 26. Oklahoma
the News to announce that he has will get $115,030.00 out of the five
I mado no canvass and that he will millions of dollars available between
I not bo a candldnte for the orrice. He j now and Juno SO, 1917, In tho ?85,
lasks the News to extend thanks for 000,000 good road fund voted by
jhim to thoso friends for their inter-1 Congress to be 3pent in the next five
ost In his election, and to express his I years.
regret at being unable to make tho '
race. i n n imniv:nr i-'OitTV (MINTS
Following the advance In oats
CATHOLIC PASTOR RETURNS from thirty-five to forty cents, the
Itov. Father Wiorsnia, pastor of j prco which was reached yesterday,
tho local Catholic Hock, will return I hundreds or loadB of oats which were
this weekfrom tho hospital, whore being held are being rushed to mar
he has been for the last two week, i ket and probably a hundred loads
and will conduct the regular .?e"-'woie sold on the streets here yester
vices at tho church here next Sun-. day Other farm products are soar
dnv. srvces will commence at 1) ing as well. December wheat Is now
o'clock in the morning. (quoted at 41.25.
r
H:ne you
Observed
Artlhtie
Bounty ?
It:-
THE NEW
Have y't
Heard Its
Wonderful
Tone '.'
EDISON DIAMOND DISC
M.. Kdison'r new art of recreation
ro-oreatflfl muulc jus' ar It corner
from the warm throat oPtho artlsr.
Export cannot distinguish the dlf
foronco between tho Edison re-creation
and the voice of the living artist.
When you buj r. musical instrument
you want tlv best, and not a:i out-oi'-dat'
uopdlo-type t liking machine.
You will find the Edison in th'' wMl
' thy homos of the land, but you don't
have to o rich to own aa kllsjn
Diamond Disk.
We Make
the Terms
Easy
Illinois Dealer Aro Told TChnt tho
Country is In tho Throes of
a leather Famine.
Chicago, July 25. "UnlcBS tho
world develops a substitute lor lea- '
thcr within two years America will
be the noxt wooden shoe nation."
This was stated at tho convention
or the Illinois Shoo Retailers' Asso
ciation. Speakers declared that tho
country Is in tho throes of a loather
famine. R. W Rannoy, president
of tho association, warned tho dele
gates that government action was
necessary if leather boots and shoe&
wore to remain within tho reach ot
the worklngman.
CIVIL CASES DISTRICT COURT
The following civil cases have been
filed In the district court:
Victor M. Kolley vs. Wilson J.
Boal; transcript of judgment.
First State Bank or Durant vs.
uguHt Krueger; debt.
FirHt National Bank or Durant va
T. F. and T. J. Smith; debt on note
and attachment or real estate.
Carrie Butler vs. John Butler; di
vorce. '
Idn Vestal vs. T. J. Vestal; divlrcc
J. M. Graham vs. Maud Graham;
partition.
CIVIL CASES COUNTY COURT
One civil case waB Hied this week
in the County Court, as rollows:
State National Bank or Durant vs.
J. H. Driver, replevin.
THIRD RURAL ROUTE IS
NEARLY READY
Durant's third rural delivery routo
will Btart operations on Tuesday, tho
1st or August, according to Postmas
ter Early, unless patrona fall to pro
vide mail boxes as required by the
Department. Tho rules call ,for 85
approved mall boxes by August 1st.
The carrier has been ovor the routo
and ascertained 95 families to be
served. Boxes have been ordered
and may now bo secured. A delay In
putting up boxes will delay tho route
anywhere from one to six months.
Tho postmaster suggests that all to
be served act at once.
Vacation Luggage
Just received a large assortment of up-to-date Suit-Cases,
Bags and Trunks, especially suited to vacation trips, and the need
of those going away to school. r ,
Nothing makes a better impression, among strangers or vour
friends than up-to-date luggage, and ir you come here you will
find them at department store prices.
Suit Cases
Solid Sole Leather body, in black or tan, double r--enrorced
leather corners, heavy straps all around, heavy
brass latch-lock and catches, kid lined, up-to-date In
every way, at
Good all leather Suit Cases, well made in every
detail, with all around straps,- brass lock and catches,
'.'. re-entorced steel hinges, splendid appearance, nnd
great values at
Other Suit C. ses In black or tan .well made, with
latest catches and hinges
&.
' Harrison Gonf ectiohery- . . . "
$12 to
$15
$6 to
$10
$1to$5
Bags Everybody Should Have
One
$15 to
$18
$8.50
to $12
$2to$5
Gonulno Black Walrus Bags, kid lined, double
handle, heavy brass latch-lock and catches, host ro-en-forccd
corners; some want $20 to $25; we ask . . .
All solo loather tan and black Bags, well made In
and outside, and will give you long service and retain
Its good looks
Splendid Basjs In Black and Tan, heavy leatherl
corners, good locks and catches
WE CAN SAVE VOL' MONEY ON WOOD FIBER TRUNKS.
GET OCR PltlCES
Cleaning up Hot Weather
Toggery
lf yon md n' Keep-Cool or Cool Cloth Suit ,you can buy thorn heiv
a' Clwui-Up I'Hcw..
Palm Beach and other two-pleece Suits at $ft.7ft
Spoit Shirts are going big at 43c, S5c and 1.23
YOU'LL SAVE MONEY 1JY COMING HERE
ii I II I M DURANT. OKLA. yf
I'll Main Street .,
; ' Durant, .OkV-ihooi'i
j
i ! hi mini i ynmiimmmmmf t
ffc)fliWril)Mjl)lili,pWlwwwlwiMl mfi?!wit
