. . . ? 5
m
DAILY ED If IdN
, .1 . , , T - - '
VOL, VI., Wo. MB. ,.' . ; ' - OIUXTS I'ASS. JOSEI'UINE COIN TV, OREGON, FKIIMV, - ttXlT JW, 1010. r i;; '' r WHOLE WMBES ISM
.' " 7-V- "I ' . " , " " " " 1 - - - , -r ,z. , ,j. rs
' . V -: - ; , .. No Othcp ,Towd in the? World the Size of Grants Pass Haa a Paper With ftill Leased Wire Telegraph. Service. , '
Y
i
Si
BRpOY FAILS
f suns'.
Advances Agaiast the Central
Powers Are Reported on
Both Eastern and Western
frOiltS Oy Allied 1 MODS
London, July 28. Tbe Russians
have captured the city of Urody, sc.
cording to , II usx I an dispatch re
-celved here tonight. '
Petrograd, July 88. Toe Russian
advance In the region of the Stontcvkl
and Boldurevka rivers rontlnuea suc
cessfully, the war office communique
declared today. Gains were also re
ported In the Caucasus.
London, July 28. British troops
lisve driven the German Branden
ourgera out of Delviile wood, accord
ing to General Half's report to the
war office today.
SCENE OF BATTLE
London, July 88. The same des
verste hsud-to-hsnd lighting by which
the British, wrested fotleres from the
Oermans was proceeding today In the
outskirts of tongueval and beyond
the Delvllle woods northeast of that
town, as well as In the Fouresux
woods.
General Halg reported thut In one
-of theee clashes at Delvllle woods
tils troops had been successful.
The Berlin statement Insisted' the
lighting was still In process there,
and that the 'British attempts had
"broken down" before the German
positions.
' Halg! claimed "further progress"
around 1inguevll and Potlercs. .
The British report -hnd It that
strong German counterattacks, pre
sumably directed 'at trenches newly
won by Kitchener's men around those
positions, had been beaten off with
heavy loss to the Teutons,
Elsewhere, he reported artillery
combats which the Berlin state
ment confirmed, with the additional
Information that north of the Somme
It Increased to "the highest strength.!'
Both London and Berlin statements
agreed on a German patrol engaging
the British lines lu the Nouve Chap
elle district; : the British admitted
Germans temporarily occupied first
lluo trenches at two points,; but as
serted they were ejected by cdunter
V'ittacks. Berlin made no claim of German
troops occupying any ground but!
spoke of booty In men and guns, and '
concluded with the declaration that
the allies could not boast of any pro
gress. - ,; .
South of the Somme official state
ments from 'both sides Indicated
heavy artillery duels.. The French
nwuneni ruxv.ru .
Hie MUBHIWI iruopa Bl u 10 HHt uii
the French battle front, In a recon-
noltorlnur expedition at Aubcrlve.
Berlin and Paris reports agreed on
i 1
L0N6UEVAL
ngnting arouno in.aumoni. -sma ,,,,, Wwh . nporKe w glcori
claiming repulse of attacks. Ii-Urtllno. Wash.; -Prank , R. Perry,
, PetroRrad merely reported sucneHs-1 MnpJe v WMh ( D
ful advance of Russia i troops, both ;wvrnmn Spoltane; Wallace Clarke,
In the sector around Brody and In Kstnnol(li ,Mh, nwUrA A KgheV(
the Cauottsus.; The Berlin version ad- ew p,ymnlth. ,ho Martl wIaK
milled considerable ground gained bjr'Blll 1(lRho. Arthltr 0 U(t,0
the Mar's forces In the northeast of 0mUi WMh . ; gimon j
Svlnluchy, but stated counter-attacks Chelan,. Wash.Knute .Neff, Stan
v;,were pfogresslng. ' ; , lVv..h.! j.,. ' Michaels'.
Oeorgo Riddle and family left to-
day for
MeiWord to witness "The
Olrth of aatlon."
JUDGE BRAIlDEtS
VILL BEMEfJBEfl
. OF C0ML1ISSIQN
Washington, July 18. It u re
ported this Afternoon tljiit President
Wilson bad selected for the American
members of tjie Joint committee to
Investigate tbe whole subject of
Mexican-Anierloan relation Supreme
Court Justice Louis D. Brandols, Gen
eral George W. doeths.lt and Judge
Victor J. Dowllng of New York.
The report could not be confirmed
t the White House.
Drandels was named, according to
report, because of hi experience
jan an Investigator. Coethils u con-
sldered an expert not only on the mili
tary phases to be handled but n con
structive work of the kind the de
facto government Is understood, to
wish td undertake. . '
Judge Dowllng. la a Catholic. The
report of these selections followed a
cabinet meeting In which "favorable
progress" was again reported by Act
ing Secretary of State folk, on his
negotiations , with Mexican Ambas
sador Arredondo. . -
TRAINMEN AGAIN J
CONFER WITH R.R
Cleveland, July .88. The
tour
brotherhoods today notified the rail
roads' committee that they are pre
pared to resume conferences on an
etght-bour day at ten-hour pay and
time and a half for overtime on
August 1 in New York. The brother
hood'offlciaU hope for'a satisfactory
settlement of the demands, previous
ly refused by the rallrosds.
The brotherhoods' officials will go
Into the confcrcnco backed up with
the power of the referendum' vote of
380.000 railway employee to "act as
they deem best" in case the deadlock
can not be broken by argument.- ,
A statement from the brotherhood jt and the pulley will take weeks of
headquarters today said: , Itlnie. The pulley" was worth about
"The vote- does not necessarily 1350, ,nd other damage will run the
mean a strike, because the ballot only J property loan to about 82,500.
authorises the chief executives of the An examination Indicates that the
four brotherhoods to call a strike charge of dynsmlte had heen placed
provided a satisfactory settlement csn within the big pulley, the evident ln
not be obtained from the railroads, entlon' being to put the pumps tor
"The ballots were sesled In envel-jthe South side ditches out of com
opea .by the Individual members and'miM!on. By what method the dyna
no one knows what the vote Is mtll 'mite was exploded Is not known. Mr.
It Is opened by the brotherhoods' navls says that he saw no smoke
committee In tfew Yprk August 1. from a burning fuse when he entered
Any announcement before that time J the pump room, and it may have
as to the result of the vote Is only a been so set that it was exploded when
Ktiess." s 'the pulley commenced Its revolutions.'
" -' 1 I Powder smoke on the pulley shaft
M
EWI
LfliiiiKG!P0LICE.IES110H:,SUSPECTSIti
Spokane, July 28. Interest In the
land drawings for panels In the Col
vllle Indian reservation. was unabated
and when tho plolilug of cards hear
I11K the names of the lucky entrants
began today's crowds thronged the
Amorlcun theater to clidcr tho win
ners. - , j "
Today's selections follow:
Judd H. ThoinHon, Colton, Wash.;
B. Culvln; lsanc A. Simmons, Volmer,
Idaho; Ix'onnrd Smith. Spokane; Syd
jney R, . Cruse, .Wirkerham, Wash.;
i Margaret O'Brien, Cashmere, Wash.;
wminni Havner, Mansfield. Wash.;
... ,,.., T,n... I-n1.. Rrnat c.
I NIbhoi, Vliiona, Idaho; Walter S.
' 11 v i t si. . t - J
l1lrii 1 tn.Mitrtit ' MTiiali I f anlin Hiiitfl
vv ( i if 1 1 1 it pih turn urn viii i.i
lie Buc. ldiilin: Hnci'v Hratli.
Ellis
,, Tekoa, Wash.', William Rose,
Buckley, Wash.: Samuel J. Noland,
PUMPS AT THE GOLDEN
Danjage , Will noant to About $2500 to M Property
Through Loss of Big Pulley and Belt, and Fanners on
: the South Side of the River Will Be Wiflicut Water
forIrrigation During Balance if' the Season
Through the action of vandals who
last night dynamited the big driving
pulley that operated the pumps for
tha south side ditches at the Golden
Drift dam, the farmers on the south
side of the river, and la tha Prultdale
district, will be without Irrigation for
the balance of the season.
The work of the local dynamiters
occurred at about 12:80 o'clock last
night, Just after the water had been
turned upon the turbines by Ike
Davis, who was In charge. Night
watchman Carjlll had left the pump-
tnf plant at about 11:30, and Mr.
Davis came on Just after midnight.
In the Interval between the leaving
of Mr. Carglll and tha coming of Mr.
Davis the vandals must have entered
the power plant at the dam and have
placed tbe dynamite or other explo
sive thst was used In the great 48-
Inch pulley that drives the Friritdale
pumps. Mr. Davit was Just starting
up the machinery, and the turbine
had not yet gained speed, when the
explosion occurred. Davis was only
eight or ten feet from the point of
the explosion, but was luckily shield
ed from tha flying metal and splinter-
ed timbers by a couple of 10-inch rangement whereby they were prom
posts, otherwise he would no doubt 'ised their pay at specific dates In the
have been killed. The force of the
expi0Mon broke the heavy pulley, six
feet jn Altmeter and of 48-Inch face;
tnto bits, and the 41-Inch leather belt
tnat connected It with the nnmp was
lorn "tn(i broken Into pieces. ( This
belt alone cost 81.800. and to reDlace
shows that the charge must have been
T
Sun Francisco, July 2 S. Thomas
Mooncy, street car strike agitator,
and his wife, brought hero from Son
oma county as suspects lu connec
tion with the recent suit cuse dyna
miting, were examined , by members
of the police bomb squad today In un
effort to ascertain whether they can
thrpw any litsht upon the conspiracy
which Is alleged to have causvd the
outrage. After a preliminary exam
ination, District Attorney Flckert au
nounced that Mooney would be held,
but that, for the present, no charge
would be lodged agalhst him.
Both Mooney and his wife declare
their Innocence and assert that they
will have little dimculiy .In clearing
themselves of suspicion.;. They ar
rived here at 1 a. m.
Detectives today again questioned
Ed Nolan, a member of the machin
ists' union, regarding the presence In
his home of various kinds of acids rrtncisco rower company, ana mat
which were found when police 'made th.er mV be Bom9 connection be
a search of the premises yesterday, twen ",nt "Jb" Rndth" out rag of
These are being annlyied by the city .Saturday.' The bomb was in a suit
chemist, whose preliminary" report in- case ami carried a clockwork attach-
dlcated that they are
harmlesa,
fastened at that point, . Pieces of the
broken pulley were burled about the
dam, and a score of chunks of the
castings tore their way through the
heavy Br planking, four Inches thick,
with which the dain isn roofed. A
number-of. these planks were torn In
to splinters.,. No damage was done
to the turbines .and ,, pumps for the
north, side ditch, and the Injury to
the" dam Itself not, material . ft.
At the presept. time no suspicion
points toward Individuals as the per
petrators of , the outrage that must
result In Irreparable loss to the farm
ers on the south side. Since the
troubles over the payment of wages
between ttie Public Service corpora
tion and the laborers upon tbe ditches
and dam there have beennumeroua
threats of personal violence against
tha officers of the company; and oc
casionally it Is said the threat has
been voiced that no water' should go
through the, ditches till the men had
oeen paid tor ineir iaor. . At a meet
ing last night It was supposed that
these matters had been adjusted for
a time, the claimants, through their
attorneys, havlnig agreed to an, ar-
future. At a meeting of the water
users, also held last night, Mr.
Sanders agreed to put the pumps all
In good order and to turn them over
to the water users for operation dur
ing the present season. Plans for
financing the operation of the plant
were msde1 at the same time, and
the way seemed clear for the delivery
of the water now so badly needed for
sugar beet and other, crops that are
under the ditches. With the adjust
ment of the difficulties under way, the
motive for the deed of last night be
comes more of a mysiery. and the
officers advance no theories to point
to a solution. A thorough Investi
gation Is to be made, however, and
the guilty parties will be brought to
justice tf possible. It Is only a mir
acle that prevented the loss of life,
for the chances are against the man
who goes through the hall of metal
and fir splinters as did Mr. Davis and
escapes with his life.
Officers of the machinists' union pre
dicted today that Nolan would be
speedily released.--Miss
Entelle Smith, who Identified
Warren Billings,, the first suspect ar
rested, as a man she saw on Market
atFAnt nDrri'lna- a hoavv milt rnnA
. : . . . . . . '
snorw.v oeiore aaiuraay s explosion,
. , . ,
oner todav In order to clear any
doubts she nilglit entertain as to his'
Identity. - When she first saw Billings
she 1 lit mediately pointed lilm out as
the man she had peen and Said she
could not be mistaken, despite Bil
lings' pleadliiKS not to cast suspicion
on him. v
; Meanwhile experts on - explosives
are examining an infernal machine
found June 23 near San Bruno, south
of here. The police believe the bomb
was Intended to blow up the trans
mission towers of the Sierra and San
-
Coutlnned on page 2)
FRISCO D F ENDi
sd inoK
Mexico City, July 28. Pancho
Villa is being driven Into a trap. Ten
thousand Oarranztota troops are driv-
hng bim and his capture Is imminent,
according to officials here. , The an
nouncement was made In reply to
rumors from the United States bor
der that tbe bandit chief is moving
toward Torreon . -
"Such a story Is ridiculous," it was
stated today by a high official. "Villa
can not move south." '
Reply to First Chief Carranzais
note suggesting; a Joint commission
for settlement of the border difficul
ties is expected hourly from the
United States. ; ",'
"Settlement of certain matters,"
according to the view of official, Is
probably delaying it. Irt the mean
while, Mexico City expects the Amer
ican expeditionary force will be with
drawn, thus avoiding discussion on
this point when the conferences 'be
tween the Mexican and American
commissioners begin.
Baltimore, July 28. The Dentsch
land prepared today to take on a pilot
from the Maryland Pilots' association,
but that organization said Owen
Coleman, who brought .'her np the
river, was out of town and not imme
diately available for service. While
Captain Zack Cnlllson of the tug Tim
mons wants Coleman, the rules of the
association require that vessels take
the "first man out" the first man on
the pilot list.
A 24-hour crew is aboard the Tlm
mons, giving the impression that tbe
stay of the Deutschland Is not lone
and that when she does head out she
may plan a lay-over In the lower bay
before trying to run the allied patrol.
G. 0, P, STATEMENT
MEXICAN POLICY
New York. July 28. First formal
Indication that Mexico will be the
main issue on which" the republicans
will attack the Wilson administra
tion In the presidential campaign was
contained in a statement issued today
by National Chairman Willcox.
The statement denied the repub
lican party's criticism of the handling
of the Mexican problem was "dictated
by any sinister Influence." and bit-'
terly assailed Wilson's "maladminis
tration" of affairs there.
The Willcox' statement follows:
All statements made In news-
'papers or elsewhere to the effect that
the attitude of the republican party
towards the situation In Mexico is
dictated by any . sinister influence,
corporate or otherwise, are contrary
to the facts. Our Interest In Mexican
affairs is the result solely and exclu
jslvcly of the maladministration of
American
relations with Mexico snd
the various Mexican factions. The
weaknoss of the Wilson admlnlstra
question, Is so fully before the Amer
ican people that It Is a vital Issue lit
this campaign. ,
"It Is therefore not possible for the
democratic pnrty to evado the re
sponsibility for conditions In Mexico
by ascribing ulterior motives. - The
Issue is plain and clear cut.: It is the
principle of the, republican party to
insist upon the full protection of
American cltlreng and American
rights."
ChicagoJuly 28. While the mid
dle west sweltered under a blaxlng
sun today, residents at Winnemucca,
Nev., shivered In a temperature of 8G.
"The coolest spot In the country,"
said the weather bureau here, ..J.
SUB-SEA FREIGHTER
IS SEEKH.G PILOT
MS III JOE II
AEHE
Sfcdect cf Arcy Am&a
Crashes Air Craft Into Lbs
if Actsicbi! Wrwkizi
Fear, ad Carzg Di
Ontario. Cal., July 28. One child
was killed and its mother, Mrs. C. A.
Stoebe, was seriously injured when
Lieutenant 8. H- Wheeler,' U. S. A.,
itUmpUng to rise fronj the ground
in a warplane near Mesa, crashed into
a line of watching automobiles.- Four
automobiles were , overturned and
wrecked. The officer was nninjured.
Lieut Wheeler landed here in a
fog last night while en route to San
Diego- from Los Angeles In an army
aeroplane. , Three other planes start
ed at the same time. Lieut. Wheeler
became lost in a heavy fog. A large
number of persons, many in automo
biles, gathered at Meaa, north of this
city, to witness the departure this
morning. , The army officer, having
no mechanic, was forced to start hla
own plane. The area in which the
start 'was planned was cramped by
motorists. - -f;' K' '
At ":J o'clock" .Wheeler climbed
aboard the warplane. For a consider
able distance the craft sped down the
field, gaining momentum. When the
plane lifted from the ground, Wheel
er, attempting to steer clear of a
grove of trees, veered his machine
toward the line of motorists. Support
seemed to fail as the huge war bird
swept , upon the spectators Several
persons started to run as It became
apparent the officer was having diffi
culties managing his machine;
Suddenly the craft, speeding at
sixty miies an hour, seemed to lower
in the air, struck the ground with ,a
bound, and hurtled into the parked
automobiles. Four machines were
overturned. :' '"
1 Haroid Stoebe, four years old, was
instantly killed In the crash. His
mother, standing between two cars
which overturned, was horribly; In
jured. She may not recover. The
war plane was reduced to a mass of
wreckage, despite the fact that the
pilot escaped with hardly a scratch.
Lieut. Wheeler Is one of the student
officers studying army aviation at
North Island, San Diego.
BRITISH PATROL "
SHIPS ARE SUNK
Berlin, via Sayville, July 28. The
Dutch newspaper Handelsblad 're
ports a naval battle off the Scotch
coast between several German sub
marines and the patrol boats Nellen,
Nutten, Onward and Eve. The Nelleu
and Nutten sank. Three sailors were
killed, the remaining 'sailors being
rescued by a Dutch fishing boat of
the Dogger bank and landed at a
Scotch harbor. The other two patrol
boats are supposed to have been lost
with tholr crews. ,
Four German torpedo ' boats
brought up two British trading ships
oft Landskrona, In international
waters.
It is understood that three ot those
rescued from the Nellen and Nutten
died later as a consequence of their
wounds. '
The above newspaper report of a
naval battle was circulated by the
official German news agency and by It ,
transmitted In connection with dally
wireless news to the United States
via Sayville.
' 1 RltsvHIe, Wash. v
' . " , v
