the, o wosm times
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH'
VOL. XXXVIII " OWOSSO, MICHIGAN, JULY. 28, 1916. 10
Close Thursday Aftern oon.
Quite a number of Owosso merchants
have signed an agreement to close their
stores Thursday afternoons daring
August.' -
Want Sunday Conoerts.
Flans are being made which It Is
hoped will result in the giving of band
, concerts at McCardy park on Sunday
afternoons by the new Corunna band
;, which is made up of twenty members
from Owosso and Corunna. The Mich
igan United Railway Company will be
asked to pay part of the expense.
Diekema at Elsie and Ovid.
' Hon. Q. J. Diekema will tour Clinton
county in the interest of his candidacy
'for the Republican nomination for
governor on Saturday afternoon of this
week. He will be at Elsie at 1:30 and
Ovid at 4:30 o'clock.. Fairfield and
Middlebury township people are invited
to hear Mr. Diekema.
ANOTHER NEW THEATRE
of
KILLED BY ENGINE
Paye to D. & M. Only.
Commissioner Hanscom has decided
to pave Washington street from the
bridge to the Grand Trunk tracks only
this year., Tbe shortage of labor for
this kind of work, particularly at this
time of the year, and the high cost of
materials makes it seem wise to wait
until next year to paye south of tbe
tracks.
John Miller, Ann Arbor Brakoman,
Loses Life at Ourand.
jouo Miuer, aired 28 veara. was
Death of Mrs. James Palmer.
Mrs. James Palmer, aged 58, passed
away Saturday at her home in Cale-
donia township, after an illness of sev
killed by being struck by an engine in made her home in Shiawassee county Creek drain. The decision made by the
the Ann Arbor yards at Durand, Sat- most of her life. She was a woman of state hlshwav mnn,iinn ,nnnl,-
r ---j -wr v- -VIIV TV Ug
Fred Patterson Starts Ereotlon
$10,000 Structure.
Fred Patterson started operations
Monday on the building of a theatre
and store building on West Main street
westorineisationainotel. Tne stiuc urday night. He was working on a -lad. Christian nature, and was be-
-uro w. u cuss fiU,wW ana wm oe 4oxiu:j . rreignt and after cars were left at loved by a host of friends and relatives
-urana tne train pulled out for Owosso one leaves beside her husband, two
and Miller was not missed until the brothers, Jack and Andrew Newell,
train reached here. Word was sent to two sisters, Mrs. M. Sweetland of
Durand and the body found cut to Caledonia township; and Mrs. Charles
pieces in the yards at Durand. It la Lemunyon of Owosso. The funeral
not Known which train killed Miller, was held Monday afternoon from the
out parts of his clothing were fc.und home, Rev. T. B. McGee officiating.
uu j--gioe ao. 104 wmcn followed the
Expense of Dra n Apportioned.
w-ounty urain Commissioner Emil
Hoethke vesterday received the decision
of State Highway Commissioner Frank
era! months with dropsy. Mrs. Palmer F. Rogers on the appeal made to him
was formerlv Mhw Nwii. Sh h.H up t .. -
I . vw bug A-KUUU
feet with two small stores and a 20
foot theatre-entrance on Main street.
The building will be two stories high
with green, white and grey brick front.
The theatre will be first-class in every
particular and will be conducted as a
moving picture house with occasional
vaudeville acts. ,
Perry Couple Injured in Auto Accident
" Perry, July 23. While Mr. and Mrs.
Pearl Comer were driving to Pinckney,
Sunday, their car was turned com
pletely over, damaging the car
greac extent. Both bones in
Comer's left arm were broken.
Comer's ankle was badly bruised.
Comer complained of her hip.
not known how badly she is injured.
She is still at Pinckney.
train Miller was working on
Miller wss unmarried and made his
home at the boarding house of Mrs
street.
Tl! . .
uis parents live at Port Austin. A
brother, Casmere, and one sister, Mjs.
John Buzenski, of Saginaw, survive
him. The remains were taken to Port
Austin for burial.
Miner was a rxmnlar niemher nf
to a
Mrs.
Mr.
Mrs.
It is
Resignation of Captain J. O. Parker.
Announcement was made Wednesday
by the military authorities at Camp,;:; p uoase 1
w n, t t-i PtZella Cameron, East Comstock
tendered his resignation as Captain of
Co. H and that the same had been
approved by the State officials and
forwarded to Chicago to be acted upon
by the TJ. S. army officials of the
central department at Chicago. Dr.
Parker stated that as his services did
not seem to be needed for active duty
that he could not afford to neglect his
practice and for that reason asked to be
relived. Gen. Kirk and Col. Boucher
have recommended J. H. Steck of this
city, as the successor of Capt. Parker,
Lieutenants Lahmau and Whltehearse
having waived their right, to promo
tion. Mr. Steck was formerly captain
or an Iowa company and is greatly
interested in military affairs. He spent
Thursday at the camp, accepting an
invitation from Gen. Kirk to come for
a conference.
Death of Miss Ethel Hall.
Miss Ethel Anna Hall, only daughter
of L. C. Hall, passed away Wednesday
morning at the family home on Michi
gan, avenue, soon after being brought
intq the house from the train which
ended a trip from Albuquerque, New
Mexico, made in the hove that Misa
iiitnei might reach home before death
overtook her. With her father and
Owosso Aerie of E11--W fh v.n vrn traiM nurse she started home Sunday
order, Brotherhood of Railway Train- andjkePfc nP until Lansing was reached,
men and the Ann Arbor Employees' her 8treDth ging out and she was
Relief Association.
Rural Mail Service.
More than 75 per cent of the mail
boxes on the routes from Owosso do
not show properly tbe name of the
just alive when carried, into the home
and after being placed in bed raised up
and fell into her father's arm
expired.
Miss Hall was born in Owosso 28
years ago, attending the Owosso
r
W. C. T. U. Meeting.
Oq Sunday afternoon next at 3
o'clock, Rev. II. A, Waite, pastor of
. the Baptist . church of this city, will
address a meeting of the Woman's
Christian Temperance Union of New
Haven township to bo held at the home
of Wm. Smith, a mile and three-
quarters east of the Free Methodist
church. A large attendance is requested
and assurance is given that the. talk of
Rev. Waite will be well worth hear in jr..
Labor Day Celebration at Durand.
uurana is in early ana announces
that Labor Day will be properly cele
brated at the "Hub" and that all
central Michigan is invited to join in
making the event a great one. The
Business Men's Association, with A. B.
Freeman at the head, has the finance
cared for and the program of the day
well arranged. The Express announces
that a complete program of sports will
be given. -
Refuses Parents Rsquest.
Judge Miner in the circuit court,
Monday, dismis-ed the habeas corpus
action brought by Charles Snook of
Shiawassee township, against Loyal M.
Wallace and wife of Owosso, refusing
to order the return of Snook's seven-
year-old daughter which the Wallaces
have had the care of for five years. A
hearing in the case last week lasted
Seegmiller to Seek Congressional
Honors.
Representatives of the six counties
comprising the eighth congressional
district were in the city Wednesday
conferring with W. A. Seegmiller re
garding the Democratic congressional
situation and when the conference was
completed Mr. Seegmiller consented to
become a candidate. That he will be
nominated at the primary without
opposition goes without saying as there
will be no one to contend with him for
the empty honor of running against
J. W. Fordnev. While the paII
were not all postmasters, the number
was sufficiently large to make one
think that it might be an adjourned
meeting of . the national association
held in Washington last week when
Mr. Seegmiller's candidacy was pro
posed. It is, however, no small honor
to haye the nomination thrust on one
unsought and Mr. Seegmiller will make
considerable of a personal sacrifice in
accepting.
mam
DEATH OF FRED J NORTHWAY.
Long Suffering Ended at His Home
In Durand,
Fred J. North way, one of the well
known attorneys of Shiawassee county,
died at his home in Durand, Monday,
after an illness of several months. Mr.
Northway's condition has been critical
for several weeks, and no hope had been
held out for his recovery for some time.
He submitted to an operation for gall
owner or the number of the box. To BLUV18 ana iate wells uollee, where
enable the carriers and particularly ner neai n raed, sjmptons of tubercu
tne substitutes to give satisfactory
service it is necessary that the name
and the number show clearly at all
times and to this end the post office
department has directed that the regu
lations which require the same be en-
iorcea. ic is but a small item of
expense to do this and the patrons are
losia appearing, and she was at home
for two years. She went west and
grew rapidly better and was to have
been married this fall. In May she
sufl'ered an attack of pleurisy, recover
ing from the disease, but so weakened
that tbe tuberculosis again attacking
her she failed rapidly. She did not
allow her father to know of her con-
a hearing and close investigation of the
situation between this county andShia
wassee county fixes the percentage of
tbe cost of tbe drain to be paid by each
county. His figures were 68 per cent
for Saginaw and 33 per cent for Shia
wassee. This decision U a gain of 7 per
cent for Commissioner Roethke over
the percentage which the Shiawassee
commissioner would agree to stand.
At a meeting held several months ago
between tbe commissioners of the two
counties, tbe Shiawassee countv com
missioner would agree to accept only
25 per cent of the cost of the drain.
Commissioner Roethke refused to ac
cept this division and immediately ap
pealed to the state highway commis
sioner, whose opinioa was received
yesterday.
The Limb Creek drain as proposed
will follow a natural ereek bottom and
will be among the most costly drains
of the county. It will be about 12
miles iu length, with a 18 and 14 foot
bottom and a depth of eight and nine
feet. One of the mcst cosily items of its
construction will be the bridges, there
being 15 on the drain. Five of these
bridges will have to be newly con
structed and the remaining ten, which
are now on the creek, will have to be
rebuilt and enlarged.
One of tne unusual features cf the
situation is that the adjoining county
will be taxed Z2 per cent of the cost of
the drain thougn only 30 rods of the
drain will be in that county, and this
30 rods will require no bridges. The
fact that a large part of the water to be
PIONEER DAYS IN. MICHIGAN
requested to icrive the matter ntfontinn
wl.h.n.he eIt month. Ow.ngio the bIb.tT'?T 11 ! of by the drain wli be SW
tuauw uuiiug me pasi year tne ooxes y J CiV-iaiJD
must all be re numbered so that the aa18ea lD oe brought home im-
numbers will come conaeentlvel kt mediately.
numbers will be assigned each box by
the post office and the Ame twill
delivered by the carriers within a few
days. The rural service is one of the
greatest branches of the postal service
and patrons should cheerfully comply
witn this requirement
Changes have been ordered to go Into
effect August 1st on rural routes 6 and
7, which will shorten the former and
Mi?s Hall was a charming and popu
lar young lady, a good student. uMivn
in chnrch and social life until her
heal -h failed, and her death is sincerely
mourned by a large circle of friends.
She is survived by her father and one
brother, L. C. Hall, Jr , of this citv.
Her mother died five pears ago.
The funeral is to be held at the home
this afternoon, Rev. B. G. Mattson of
lengthen the latter. In the first case ine 0DSregail0DaI cburch of this city,
the change is made because of the nonr ana "ev u uanfe8 or Calumet,
... . nRltl
condition of a portion of the roads and
in tbe latter case to give service to
several additional families and to give
the carrier the benefit of better roads.
Unless some other roads over which
the carriers are compelled to drive
are put In better shape it is not amiss
to predict a further curtailment of the
tervice. This is particularly true on
rural route 8.
officiating.
INDUSTRIAL LEADER DIES.
fhree days and satisfied the Judge that ones several months ago, at the hands
or the famous Doctors Mayo of Roches
ter, Minn., but was given only tempor
ary relief.
Mr. Northway was born in Venice
township, and was 50 years of age. He
the child would be better cared for at
the Wallace home.
Machinery Company Incorporated.
Tne standard Aiacmnery Jo., a new
Owosso corporation, was incorporated
at Lansing, Saturday, for 20,000. '
The concern's stockholders are E. W.
Brown, J. W. Radford and Joseph C.
Fetter, three Bay City men who re
cently came here and purchased the
Castree Machine shop. The new con
cern is located in the building formerly
occupied by the Castree company ani
is principally manufacturing cable con
vjyora and lath mills and bolters.
uonn Pitcairn, Also Prominent Swe
denborgian, Expires.
Philadelphia, Pa., July 22. John Pit
cairn, widely known among Sweden
borgians,and a wealthy manufacturer
died at his home at Bryn Athyn near
nere, today. He was 75 years old
Mr. Pitcairn was the leader in the
development of the Swedenborgian col
ony in Montgomery county, Pa. The
church of the New Jerusalem, in course
moved to Uorunna with bis Darents ! nf rrmntrnrM
-L . J HUjru, IDUJV
wnen aoou. nve years old, and spent Rift of Mr. Pitcairn. It i to 0r
nia Doynood days there, graduating the cathedral center for communicants
rrom the high school, and later studied i of the Swedenborcrian faith all ovr the
law in the offices of the late Judge Hugh woild. aud will cost about 750 COO.
More Horses for OWosso Races.
In the Michigan
made necessary because the new Mt
Clemens track was not built in time
for their race meeting, which was to
precede tlxp Owosso dates, iho Mt.
Clemens dates have been transferre-l
to Saginaw. This change will g:eat-
1.. T 1 n. t .11 41. I. n
iy Jimp unussu iu itei iu uio iiuis-
, here as the ship will bo very short
p.nd direct.
The Michigan Short-ship Circuit
is the only circuit in the country that
runs Its own ppecial horao ralacc
cars from town to town nn 1 the class
of racing in the circuit this summer
has been very high class.
The Owosso races will also have
an extra supplement In the runners
and this branch promlJ?3 to be bet
ter than ever, for hordes are already
promised, from Canada, Ohio, Ken
tucky and Illinois.
, The. local track Is naturally fnft
and never was as good as right now,
and it is anticipated .lix somo smart
track records vlll bo established. i
McCurdy. After being admitted to the
bar, he moved to Montmorency county,
where, after a residence of only a few
weeks, he was elected prosecuting at
torney, serving one term, at the expi
ration of which he moyed to Durand
and had practiced. there for the past 21
years.
Mr. Northway was a member of the
A novel feature of the structure is
the complete absence of machine made
materials. Every part of the work is
by hand, and there Is no steel or iron in
the building.
Mr. Pitcairn was identified with many
western Pennsylvania industries.
Mr. Pitcairn was the principal stock-
Short-ship circuit, Shiawassee County Bar association, of 1 holder of the Owosso Sugar Co.
Corunna Commandery No. 21, Knights
Templar, and of the Shrine, belonging i
to Moslem Temple, Detroit. He was
also a member of tbe Elks, Odd Fel-'
lows, Maccabees and Woodmen. j
Surviving are his widow and four
children, Reginald, Eveleth, Emerson
and Miss Wanetta, all of Durand; one
brother, A. H. Northway of Owosso,
PURCHASES CAR
RIAGE FACTORY.
Young Randolph Seed Company Be
comes Owners.
The Owosso Carriage & Sleigh Co's
big manufacturing plant was sold the
past week by C. II. Sapp to the Young-
and a half sister, Mrs Ella Calkins of ! R"do!p?fed Whlch wl" n8e part
Kalkaska. ' ot tne aildlnK 'or their constantly ln-
The funeral was held at the home in crea8,D8 owlness and expect to rent
Dnrand, Wednesday. i f , 6 pmnC 10 otheT concerns.
mtmmm. 1 holding it subject to sale for any big
Mr. and Mrs. S. A. VVaugh have re- concern that can use the .entire plant.
turned from a visit at the home of The Seed Company is now occupying
their son, Shirley, In Detroit.
Rev. Kirby will conduct a service
Sunday afternoon' at 2 6'clock at the
Pittsburg M. E. church.
Mrs. Gladys Jennings Scarlett, of
Lansing, is a guest of her father, C.
W. Jennings. West Main street.
('. '
the second and third stories of the Det
wiler store building on West Exchange
street, and Its own warehouse on
Corunna avenue, but still was short of
room, the bn si nest having increased
wonderfully since the removal to this
city from Alma two years ago.
Recall Militia from the Border Says
Townsend.
Washington July 24. The militia
should be returned from the border at
once, Senator Charles E. Towsend of
Michigan declared in the Senate today.
The Benator argued that the men are
being kept there without any definite
purpose and it was unfair to take
men, willing to serve in event of real
war from their work at home and
maintain them in idlenese
"I feel yery strongly on this ques
tion," he said. "I haye received a
great many letters from fathers and
mothers of Michigan boys who have
enlisted in the belief that thev were
really needed for service in Mexico.
The men have been taken from their
work in a northern climate and are
being held at the border for no pur
pose as it seems to me. I believe they
should be returned to their usual
avocations and their Bchools"
"The soldiers from Michigan enlisted
for Mexican service under false pre
tenses," said Senator Towns6nd, "for
it is well known now that there nev
er was any intent to send them into
Mexico. This is proven bv the corres
pondence between this country -and
Mexico. ;
"The soldiers from Michigan went!
to the border in the belief that they!
were needed for real service.
see county will no doubt construct
other drains emptying into the Lamb
Lreek justifies the opinion of Commis
sloner Roethke and the decision of
Commissioner Rogers.
The drain will begin In Fairfield
township, Shiawassee county, ' with a
14 foot bottom and a depth1 of eight
feet. For 30 rods it will traverse this
township and Ruh township in Shia
wassee county before crossing the line
Into Saginaw county, where it will
traverse Chapin, Brady and Brant
townships, emptying into the South
branch of the Bad river at a depth of
nine feet and with a 16 foot bottam.
Accordiig to the state drain law
there can be no appeal from the dec!
sion of the state highway commissioner
by either county, leaving no hindrance
to the immediate procedure with the
drain. Commissioner Roethke began
yesterday to get the necessary papers
out so that the actual digging of the
drain may be begun as soon as possible.
Saannaw Courier-Herald.
Apparently both tbe county drain
commissioners interested are satisfied
with tbe decision. Commissioner Griffin
objected strongly to the proposed divi
sion of cost and while it is slightly
higher than he thought it should be it
is quite a decreaee from the amount
originally suggested as the sum to be
charged against Shiawassee. Commis
sioner Griffin is always wide awake to
the interest of the people he serves.
Road Districts Decided.
Corunna, July 24 Members of the
county road commission held two meet
ings Saturdry as first hearings on or
ders of determination of the assessed
districts of new roadway under the
Covert act. The first meeting was in
district No. 1, the district to be assessed
! for the construction of a road near
! Leunon. The property owners decided
to pay the tax in three installments.
Those in the district of the new road
through Shiawassee township, district
"Michigan soldiers are not complain. iNo-3,decIdttd to pay the tai two
a aoaaatn ah fa
their i
Case Dismissed.
Judge Williamn of Lapeer, who heard
the case of Chloe Durham of Durand,
agiinst Henrietta Uovey and the Du
rand Hoop Co., recently, yesterday
filed his decision. He dismisses the
bill in chancery. The case will be
appealed.
Suit was brought to stop the de
fendants from taking timber oft a farm
ing. I am not complaining in
behalf. They are ready to serve
wherever and whenever they are need
ed by the government, but it would
seem to me that, in service of this
kind, troops from the states near the
border, men who are acclimated to
that .climate, should be called into
seryice in preference to the men from
the great lake shores. This seems to
me particularly true now, when It Is
5 - a. . 1 . .
maue apparent uy me Mexican Cdfre- ! near Durand nn whlh KTr IT
spondence that there never was any had a life lease, but which would pass
real purpose, of sending the militia to Mrs Dunham at the death of Mrs.
Into Mexico. tw,
Miss Virginia Miner has been assist-' Mr. and Mrs. Elwyn Pond, of Flint.
ing Coach Johnson and Principal Voel- have jnst returned from a three
ker at the public playgrounds of late weeks' trip to the Thousand Islands,
and will probably take up playground Boston and Philadelphia. They arrived
work naxt summer. She emecta to at. in Ownsno vitp!tAv fAr th: nm.
tend a school to prepare herself for this .on. William and Elwm. Jr
worK next rail. . . . . .
Mr lUr.Hno wnn nt TW. i caye Deea PeQ-i)R tneir vacation with
wrs. iiar-mg Weston of Detroit, is their orAnrtmnth!- Mr. m
in the city fcr a short stay. McLaughlin, Exchange street.
Letters of a Legislator in the Years
When Michigan's Capital Was Be
ing Moved.
The pioneer legislators who laid the
political foundations of Michigan were
an earnest lot of men, as contemporary
documents show. One of these men
was Sullivan R. Kelsey, who in 1847
was an Oakland county member of the
Michigan legislature. While attending
legislative sessions Mr. Kelsey lived In
the old "Railroad Hotel m Detroit, and
later followed his fellow law-makers
when the capital was removed to Lans
ing. Mr. Kehey's letters to his wife.
now in the possession of his daughter,
airs is. is., number, of Bay City, and
Mrs. Kelsey's replies, throw interesting
sidelights on those faraway days of the
Beginnings of things. In a letter writ-
ten in Detroit, in February, 1847, to
oira. n-eisey, Air. Kelsey says:
L his is a cold, stormy, gloomy Feb
ruary morning. I have not tbe cour-
age or disposition to go out to church .
so I have concluded to seat myself here
and write to you once more. I have a
double motive in so doing, one of which
is that it always affords me pleasure to
write to you, although I am aware that
my letters are but dry and comnara.
tively uninteresting. The other is that
I hope in return to receive one from
you which will in some degree have the
tendency (as your kind letters alwava
do) to dispel that kind of gloom which
in spite of me will take possession of
my mind when alone. i
must say that I have never felt so
lonely as I have since you left here. .
The days seem like weeks. I know that
you and onr dear children are safe and
if I could say contented and happy I
ought to be content, out fate, somehow,
orders otherwise.
"It is probable that I shall have to
remain here 10 days or two weeks
longer. The location of the capital ia
likely to consume much time yet. There
is now an effort making in the senate
to locate in Corunna or Owosso. My
opinion remains unchanged. I think if
it is removed from Detroit it will go to'
Lansing." -
Mr. Kelsey 'r foreca was correct.
Lansing besame the capital city and
the legislative session of 1859 found
him in that town, then a very small
place, of which he said in a letter to
Mrs. Kelsey:
"Lansing is a dull town according to
my notion. I should certainly get very
homesick if my time was not fully en
gaged in business pertaining to my
uties here. I assure you that.it is no
small gratification to me that it is only
40 days that I must remain here
"Last evening the senate and house
met jointly to discuss the question of
restoring the death penalty for the
crime of murder. We had some very
able speakers both in favor and azainsfc
and remained in session until a late
hour. The bill for that object has not
yet been reported to the house. When
the matter comes up it is quite likely
that it will occupy some considerabls
time as almost all the members will
have something to say.
"We now have a bill pending for
donating to Mrs. Elizabeth Rogers, of
Saginaw county, 040 acres of land. The
reason therefor is that January 1 she
gave birth to four healthy children, one
son and three daughters."
Mrs. Kelsey wrote a letter in 1847 to
her husband, which is still preserved.
in which she said: -
"Kate aays she has not seen me look
ho happy in a long time as since we re
ceived a very polite call frnm Mr
Thompson this afternoon. The letter
he gave me I think revived me as much
probably as anything. T
had cancluded that you must be seri
ously indisposed. I am
really happy to hear that they are to
adjourn so soon. Why
did you not have the capital located at
Byron? We ladles rather anticipated
t would be. I think it took you a long
time to settle tbe question.
The children are very anxious to roa
father."
Worn, yellow and old, the letters of
the pioneer legislator and his wife re
veal not only the topics of the lime, but
the spirit of the pioneers themselves,
brave in privation and beginnings. And
they breathw a domestic romance far
more excellent than the pictures of the
novelists of any time.
Withington-Schuknecht.
Corunna, July 20. A pretty weddin
was solemnized yesterday afternoon at
tbe home of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. With
ington of McNeal street, when their
youngest daughter, Miss Christiana, be
came the bride of John C. Schuknecht
of Detroit. Tha ceremony was per
formed by Rev. Beicht of the M. E.
church and, was witnessed by only the
immediate relatives of the bride and
groom. i
