THE
HERALD
AS first announced January 1. 1916. The Herald
gu?rante? full money ? worth to tne purchaser?
of article* advertised in the duplay -columns of dus
paper by any Washington merchant
(Circular Fmrmitktd Vfet Regtest)
NO. 3400.
WEATHER-OVERCAST; SAME TEMPERATURE.
WASHINGTON. D. C, SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6. 1916.
ONE (ENT.
U. S. PREPARES
TO EXPOSE VON
PAPEN'S DEALS
Riggs Bank Ordered to Hand
Over All Records of Finan
cial Transactions.
REAL EVIDENCE SOUGHT
May
Be Used to Prosecute
Secret Agents or as Basis
for Diplomatic Protest.
New Torte. Feb. 5.?A Washington ?dis
patch to the Herald says, tha Herald
learned tonight that Um Department of
Justice by subpoena haa required of
ficers of the Riggs National Bank, ot
this city, to produce for tha na? of th?
government all records of ftnanriaj trans,
airtlons conducted through the bank by
Capt Frans von Papan, recalled mill?
tary attache of th? German Embassy.
It was upon the Riggs Bank that Von
Papen drew his check of f?t) to th? order
of Werner Horn, now under Indictment
for attempting to dynamlt? th? Inter
national Railway Bridge at St. Crotx.
Mi. and many other checks Indicating
his connection with the Qermsn Incen
diary campaign.
Tne British government furnished th?
Etate Departmrat with a complete record
of check* drawn by Von Papen, aa
shown by the stub? of hla chtsck book,
which waa taken from the German of
ficer by Brltlah authorities when the
?hip on which he waa returning to Ger
many stopped at a British port.
HoweTer, the date furnished the State
Department wss only m typewritten rec
ord of the check stub? and therefore
useless as evidence to the government
In the prosecution of any case It la filer
that the Department of Juatie? hy forc
ing an exposure of the bank*? record la
bent upon substantiating th? evldeno?
which th? Brltlah government haa placed
tn the bands of the State Department
Cheek? Gives to Flette?.
Whether this Information is da^rred tn
the pros? en tlon of German secret agscta.
or la aought to back op a diplomatie
proteat from the United States t? Ger
many, officiali decline to divulga
The bank's record? were asked for In
connection with the Investigation being
conducted by II. Snowden Marshall,
United States district attorney, who Is
acting ln this case in co-operation with
A. Bruce Blelaskl, Chief of the Bureau
of Investigations of the Department of
Justice.
The record of Von Papen's financial
tranaactions as revealed tn the date sub
mitted to the State Department by the
British government includes many other
checks besides the one drawn to the
order of Horn which might give ground
for diplomatic protest to Germany or
which might become Involve?! ln criminal
prosecutions against German agents ln
this country.
Two w??eka before the explosion in Scat.
tie which damaged munitions ship
ments intended for the Russians. Von
Papen made a tarse payment to the
German consulate at Seattle.
In al of these instances, it was shown
that Von Papen's payments to the In
cendiary asenta were preceded by pay
ments made to Von Papen by Count von
Bernstorff. the German Ambassador, or
ln the name, at least, of the German Em
bassy.
Coal Strike
May Blow Over
?Both Sides to Seek Com
promise at iMeeting in
New York.
New York. Feb. 5.?The threatened
strike of 117.000 anthracite miners prob
ably will be averted through a willing
ness to make concessions by both parties
to the controversy.
Both factions are actively preparing
for trouble, despite the ?secret hopes
they entertain.
Tlie miners demand 20 por cent Increase
in mases, compiete recognition of the
United Mine Workers of America, a two
year working agreement, an eight-hour
day and changes in methods of rtxiriK
wages. Nineteen great coal companies
have decided to reject the demands.
An effort at compromiie will be made
February ?1, when representatives of
both factions meet at the McAlpIn Hotel,
ln thia city. If a satisfactory seulement
la not obtained at the meeting there still
remains the possibility of arbitration.
In some quarters the situation is said
to be the most serious that has arisen in
the coal industry since the strike ?of 190i
Several months ago the Pennsylvania
Railroad was declared to have pla?*ed up
ward of 1.000000 tons of coal in ?torace
as a precaution against the strike. There
is aaid to be less than a fortnight's sup
ply of coal ln storage which could be
drawn upon by the public.
Greek Journalists Held.
Saloniki. Feb. 6?The Fren-h military
authorities today arrested two Greek
Journalists for publishing ari les in
jurious te tes satani*.
Soft Pile of Snow
Saves Child's Life
Staeeial to The WaaahtDaTtaoo Betald.
New York, FA. 5.?"I'm glad
I didn't bave my dolly ?-ause the
curl would have come out of her
hair," said little Ella Heller, 4,
after falling sixteen feet through
a manhole and landing on a soft
pile of snow unhurt.
ARRESTED IN
RAID, HE SUES
Milton E. Cowles Tests Right
of Police to Lock Up Inno
cent Persons as Witness^
ASKS $50,000 DAMAGES FROM
OFFICERS WHO RAIDED HOUSE
"False Imprisonment" Is Charged by
Salesman Who Was Kept io Cell
for Eleven Hours.
United State? Attorney John E. Leakey.
Assistant United Statea Attorney So
litila J. Laws, Ray-mood w. Pullman.
major and e-upei-ta tendent of polle?, and
Jimct E. MulhaU, captain of th? Fifth
polle? precinct, yesterday war? Dati? de
fenduta ln a stilt for ?MOO filed tn the
District Supreme Court by Milton "E.
Cowles. of Ut E street southeast.
through his attorney. A. D. Smith, charg
ing false Imprisonment
Tills Is the first attempt alnce the en?
actm.sct of the Kenyon "Red Light" law
to tijst the legality of holding ?a "Unit
ed States witnesse?*** persona found tn al?
leged disorderly house?, but themseJvase
accused of no violation of the law.
Cowles, who la an automobil? supply
salesman, waa ?Treated about 1 o'clock
on th? morning of January S by police
ef the Fifth precinct In a raid on the
house ln which he waa living. Three
men and four women wax? arrested. Al
lanta Graul, on? of tbe woman, waa
charged wtth keeping a disorderly bouse.
The other women and man w*ra held aa
L'nlted Sut? wltne.?Mes until the follow.
Ing day and then released.
The raiding ?v ita waa lad by ?Cap*,
tfnlhall and Lieut Brtjnratrauii, of the
rifth preetnet arlth Detectivi? Howes.
Simpson and Cole, of th? "vice squad.''
assisted by several policemen of the pre
:Inct.
In hi? suit, Cowlea alleg?sa that on Jan
uary * the defendants caused him "to be
Killed and draggtad from his dwelling
Into the publie street, where he waa com
pelled to go Into a patrol wagon and
along divers streets to a police station,
where he waa detained tn a cell for
eleven hours." He says he waa then dis
missed, aa no charge of any kind was
preferred against him.
MaJ. Pullman la?t night refused to
discuss the case. United States Attor
ney Laskey stated that he knew the suit
had been ?led but was not aware of the
circumstances.
Red Cross Work
In Russia Ended
Refusal of Government to Let
Nurses Work Causes
Withdrawal.
Special Cable ta The Wailitna-lrai Heraltl.
Berlin. Feb. 1.?Russia has refused
permission for American Bed Cross
nurses to visit any prison camps or
do relief work.
Miss Louise Kodiert, of Wheeling.
;tnd Mies Louise Warracke, of Hart
ford, Conn., advance Bed Cross
nurses, sent with money and supplies
for sick ln Siberia prison camp?, re
ported to Ambassador Gerard that the
Russian government ordered them out
of Russia, refusing to permit either
Red Cross doctors or nurses to visit
any concentration or prison camp.
The entire Red Cross work ln Rus
sia will, therefore, be abandoned.
Both nurses predict a mighty
scourge of disease in Russia before
summer, spreading from the appalling
Russian prison camps.
Death Liait May Be Five.
Atlantic City. M. J.. Feb. 6.?The death
list as the result of the fire la the
Overbrook Hotel may reach five. The
bodies of Mrs. Thomas Nott, Mrs. Jose
phine Garsaed and Paul Hendrlcka have
been recovered. Edward Phllllpason, of
White Plains, N. Y.. Is still missing.
Miss Jennie Copper, who lived next door
to the hotel, dropped dtad of heart
failure today.
Big Loan for Eoumania.
Bucharest. Feb. 5.?The Roumanian
government, it was announced today, hat
made arrangements for a foreign loan
of ZViVt?.WD francs (ULVAtxm. It was
stated seml-offlclally that this was a
preparatory war measure.
Bulgaria Closes Danube.
Paris, Feb. 5.?Bulgaria has officially
notified Rouuiania that the town of .
RuHtschuk is a war zone and that the
Danube has been closa'd.
Why Not Ge ?oath aad Heft the Sprlanf
The Und of the Sky?glorious, moun
tains ot Western North t.'arolina?in
vites yon. Golt And all out-door recrea
tions. Through ?leering cars to Ashe
viile. Southern Railway,?Adv,
BERLIN NOTE
AVERTS BREAK
Final Settlement of Lusitania
Case Near; Rumor
Says.
'NOT DEADLOCKED," IS ALL
LANSING WILL GIVE OUT
Alison, expected to Decide by Tues
day Whether "Admission of Lack
of Justification'* Is Sufficient.
It was possible yesterday for the first
time to obtain definite and reasonably
complete Information regarding Ger
many's answer on the Lusitani* case,
delivered to the State Department Fri
day, Danger of a break ln diplomatic
relations between the United States and
Germany appears for the present to have
pa&sed.
Germany maintains that the sinking
of the Lusitania was an act of retalia
tion against Great Britain; that, aa euch,
it was legal; but she acknowledges that
an act of retaliation is not Justified
when it imperils the safety of neutrals.
Germany makes an explicit admission
of her obligation to pay indemnity for
the American lives lost with the Lusi
tania.
The demands of the United States were
that Germany should acknowledge that
the killing of Americana was "illegal,"
and that she should admit her obliga
tion to pay indemnity.
Qnextlon Onf of l'orni.
The question to be decided by Presi
dent Wilson Is whether Germany's ad
mission ?hat an act of retaliation, auch
as the sinking of the Lusitania, is not
justified when it imperil? the lives of
neutrals, is, in purpose and effect, suf
ficiently like an admission of {ho
illegality of the killing of Arri?rions
to be satisfactory to this government.
The most significant development of the
day came in the announcement by Sec
retary Lansing that the United States
and Germany are not deadlocked in the
Lusitania negotiations. This was the first
Information Secretary Lansing had given
out. He would add nothing further,
except to ?say that the confidential ne
gotiations arc still in progress.
Settlement ThooRht Near.
An impression sprea4 rapidly in Wash
ington during the day that the United
States and Germany have reached a final
agreement and that the only remaining
etep Is to make public announcemeent of
th:8 agreement. There was no official
basis for this speculation, yet it gained
generai circulation.
2 VOLUNTEER FIREMEN KILLED.
Men In Babylon. >. V., Stmek by
Train After Blase.
Babylon. N. Y.. Feb. d.?John R. Hig
bie, president of the Bank of Babylon,
and chief I^on Pettit, of the Baby
lon volunteer fire department were kill
ed early today when a fire engine on
which they were riding was struck by
A Long Island Railway train.
Higbie, a member of the volunteer de
partment, was returning from a fire with
Pettit when the accideut occurred. He
ve? ?} year* ?14
GIVES BLOOD
TO SAVE WIFE
Husband Aids Rare Operation
to Revive Woman Poi
soned by Gas.
TRANSFUSION SUCCESS
IN VERY FEW MINUTES
Mrs. Myrtle Cogan Recovers Con
sciousness at Casualty Hospital
After Receiving Vital Fluid.
Blood transfusion to prevent death
from gas-poisoning was reported ^o at
Casualty Hospital yesterday. It is paid
the operation Is the first performed in
the District for such a purpose and one
of few auch in medical history of the
country.
The transfusion saved the llfv? of Mrs.
Myrtle Cogan. 24, who was found by
her husband unconscious from Inha'.ing
Illuminatine gai in her home, at 1228 W
street southeast, yesterday. Tht? hus
band. James F. Cogan, submitted to the
transfusion operation when told his wife
could not Uve.
Cogan, discovering his wife*? condition
when he returned to his home about 5
o'clock yesterday morning bad her taken
to Casualty Hospital in nn ambulanee.
Surgeons determined upon the blood
transfusion after "first aid'' treatment
had fuiled to revive Mrs. Cogan, and
Cogan. 32 years old, of large physique
and healthy, offered hie blood.
The operation was - performed at 2:30
o'clock by Dr. Frederick Y. Donn. as
sisted by Dr. Edwin ?. Brown, both in
terns at the hospital. Within an as
tonishingly shoit time Mrs. Cogan, who
had sunk very low, began to revive. A
flush spread over her pallid face and a
little later she returned to consciousness.
Although more than a pint of blood had
been taken from his arteries, Cogan was
able to leave the hospital at 6 o'clock.
Dr. Dorn declared Mra. Cogan could
not have lived had the operation not he**-n
performed. She would have been asphyx
iated within a short time from lack of
oxygen, he said.
At a late hour last night. Mrs. Cogan's
condition liad improved and physicians
expected her to recover.
ONE DEATIT IN FEUD.
Thr???- Others Injured In Halite In
Floyd Co vii t.?, K>?.
Louisville, Ky., Feb. 5.?In a battle be
tween the MHler and M>adow3 families
in Floyd County, Anse Miller was killed
and l.-viis Miller. Harrison Miller and
Alfred Miller were seriously wounded,
according to reports received here today.
The two families quarreled over the Mil
ler claim to land occupied by the Mead
ows. The Millers attacked the house
in which the Meadows family was barri
caded and a battle raged for several
hours.
Panic on Berlin Bourse.
I-ondon, Feb. S.-An Amsterdam dis
patch to the Exchange Telegraph Com
pany states that a panic occurred on the
.Berlin Bourse today owing to uncon
firmed rumora that relations between
America and Germany will be broken
off. Prices dropped .heavily. Lb? *iis
I PfttCh t-yjj-U
JOHN D. JR. TO
ASSIST "LIFER"
Through "Mother" Jones,
Seeks Release of Herman
Coppes, Murderer.
WOULD RECLAIM PRISONER
TO ATONE FOR MINE CRIME
Convict, Who Killed Woman and ?
Two Children. Youngest Man Under
His Sentence in Jo?et.
Bi?t3*l to Tlie WuMiiftca Hi reld.
Chicago, Feb. 5.?The youngest "lifer"
In Joliet, Herman Coppea, convicted of
the murder of Mrs. Maud Sleep end her
two children, will be freed from the ?pen
itentiary. If the efforts of John J. Rock*
efeller, jr., "Mother" Mary Jonc?, Jack
Bobbins and Attorney William A. Cua
nta are successful, it was learned today.
Coppes la 17 years old. Toreo years ago
he shot and killed Mrs. Sleep, dropped
her body into a cistern and then, fearing
that the children would tell of his crime,
killed tho two with an ax. He confessed
the murder*, was tried and sentenced to
Jollet for life.
Nearly two years ?ago a militiaman on
guard at one of the Colorado fuel mines,
controlled by the Rockefellers, shot and
kU?-1 Harold Snyder, 12 years old.
Ahile the younger Rockefeller was in
the Colorado mining district he met
"Mother" Jones, friend of the laboring
people. It was then that "Mother"
Jone? told Rockefeller that he could
make good the life of Harold Synder
by redeeming another.
l#ook? for Wont Bor
ile told "Mother" to find the worst boy.
to spare no expense in the procesa of
reclamation, and to send all the bills to
him.
"'Mother" Jones came to Chicago re
cently. She met her friend. Jack Rob
bins, big brother to all wayward boya
She told him of Rockefeller's off^r.
"I know the boy," Rubbins said.
And he told her of Herman Coppes. the
youngest "lifer" in Jollet Penitentiary?
the youngest life prisoner in any United
StateH penal institution.
Attorney William A. Cunnea was in
formed of the situation and he began im
mediately an investigation of Coppes' In
carceration. L'pon the action of Gov.
Dunne and the board of pardons depends
the success of the plan of John D. Rocke
feller, Jr.. and "Mother'' Mary Jones,
????? CHICAGO SAFE.
Arrive? in >>w York After Uodg?
In? ti erma ? V-Bonta.
N\-w York, Feb. 5.?Proceeding at night
to escape any German buhmiMnes lhat ?
might be lurking off the French coest.
?arrowly escaping hitting a mino ar.d en
countering stormy weather and terrific
st;as, the French liner Chicago arrived
here today, two days- overdue.
Alter leaving Bordeaux the liner re
ceived wireless messages from shore
statine: that German .-?ubmai Inej were off j
the coast. The captain ordered the lights
out at night until the tteamer was in mid
VMlantic. When two days out the Chi
cago come near hitting a mine.
Soperb service to A ?pout?, Alkea.
Columbia. Auf-oat* Special leave? T p. m d**Jj.
?eotlMni Railwar, TW 15th. W ? ??-?4t.
PLOTTERS LOAD
EXTINGUISHERS
WITH GASOLINE
Firemen Unwittingly Assist
in Burning Parliament
Buildings at Ottawa.
SEEK THREE SUSPECTS
.Secret Police Believe Men
Who Purchased Oil Start
ed Destructive Fire.
temetti to Tha Waehina-I<*i Herald.
Ottawa, Ontario, Feb. C?Caw-line In
atead of th? mau?] fluid failed the hand
?xtlnculshara firemen uteri in the treat
tire at Parliaraent Houae. The extin
?rulahera liad been tanu?ere?d with durine
the twenty-four hours before the blase
basan In the readlns-room. When the
Bremen tore the extlnsrulahem from the
walla and alammasd down the plungers.
the liquid that spurted out merely added
freah fuel to Ihe already cruel ftre.
Fire Chief Graham. Charles Stewart
and Dominion Policemen Moore and Hel
mer all aaree tbe flames grew furious th?
moment they used the extinguishers.
?Chief Graham Is even now having one of
the steel ?containers tested by chemical
ex Berta
There is a regular system nf inspection
of theae hand rrenadea that are seat?
tered through the cr??t building at fre
quent Intervals. The last time they were
Inspected was Wednesday afternoon.
Seek Parekaarr. of l.aaelln.
Col. Percy Sherwood. C. M. G.. the
director of the Dominion police, has set
the hidden branch of his sen Ice towards
Unding out the identity of three man who
purchased five gallon cans of gasoline
Id Hull, a mile away from the Parlia
ment buildings on ?A'.adnesday morning.
Osie of theae men was seen the same
?Jay in the vicinity of the Great Holden
and Graham Company, Limited.
Earlyatliis morning that plant, which
haa eaO0.<mJt) worth of war raontraeta. aras
destroyed by a mysterious explosion and
subsequent fire, t'nlforms, tents, hsver
sacks. were all being made ?*?here. The
lire there was a regular volcano.
Smoke and flame filled the building
almost in an Instant. The six-story ?
brick structure was well night demolish- j
ed. A watchman had passed the sain- !
pie room where the flre began not two
minut?is before the flames burst out. Mr.
Holden, of the Arm, has employed a pri
vate detective agency.
Threats that the royal mint on Sussex
street was in dire danger came to the
authorities by an underground source
about noon. The guard about the build
ing wa-?? lmm?PHllately doubled.
More than OO.OlXi.ftiO lies packed behind
the steel bars there. It Is impossible to
gain admission.
About the same time the news that
the Jardine works, which manufacture
shells at Hespeler, a small village In
Weetern Ontario, had been blotm up,
reached Gen. Sam Hughes, the minister
of militia. Krantlc appeals were made
for authority to call cut troopst. The
neighborhood of Hespeler Is peopled
le.rgely by Europeans.
Teutons on Appam
Worrying Lansing
Secretary of State Has Not
Decided Upon Disposi
tion of Germans.
The imm?diat?? problem before the State
Department with reference to Ihe Ger
man prize Appam, anchored at Newport
News, ia the disposition to be made ot
twelve Gorman? remaining on board with
the prixe crew.
Secretary Lansing had before him yea
terday the tentative draft of a plan aub
mitted by the (tovernment neutrality
board for disposing of the Appam aa a
German prize. The board ia known to
have recognized the right of the Ger
man government to bring a pri*e into an
American port, but ia undecided as to the
length of time a prize may remain in
American waters.
British Embassy officiais say their gov
ernment will enter srrious conteat if th*
decision la in favor of Germany.
Revolution in Lisbon.
Madrid. Feb. ?.?Revolution has broken !
out at Lisbon, according to reporta re- ?
eel ved from the Portu-gueee frontier. Po- j
lice and troope are aaid to be fighting
against great mobs which atarted out to'
loot all shops.
Peace Parley Held fp.
ViVenna <via Berlin wireless). Feb. 5.?
Peace negotiations between Montenegro
and Austria-Hungary have been held up
until the Montene.grin envoya receive au
thoritative credentials.
Liner Baltic Arrive?.
New York, Feb. i.?The White Star liner
Baltic arrived here today from Liverpool,
ending a voyage during which the of
ficers had kept a sharp watch for Ger
man commerce raiders.
?$?7.77? \f? Orlarmi*. ?5.".?? Mettile,
Pen Marcii a an* Hrmr?.
M.T-di (.iras. Mart h ?-T. Three through
train? daily. Southern Railway.?Adv.
Fine? Man One Cent;
Then Jury Pays It
mtrneml I? IW Waaklnglo?. HeraM.
Shelbyville. Ind.. Feb. 5.?
Chirles St?/ford. who whipped a
man who caused Mr?. Stafford
to leave him, wa? found guilty by
a jury Ahd fined 1 cent. The jury
paid the fine, contributed it? ?erv
ices and paid the court coat?.
CITIZENS' U??N
FOR REFERENDUM
ON PROHIBITION
Federation Favors Plan by
Vote of 10 to 9 After Two
Hours of Debate.
FOR WOMAN SUFFRAGE
Organization Also Would
Have Congress Abide by
Vote of People.
After two boucs pf heated dL%cu*sion.
the Federation of t'ltixens' A**ociatl<-?n?
last night voted 10 to 9 to ask Congress
to place tbe prohibition question before
the p**opV of the Dtatrlet for a referen
dum vote. The \otea were recorded as
follows :
Kor the referendum -Brightwood ParK
Central. Chevy Cha?, Connecticut Ave
nue, tiast End Suburban. IJncoln Park,
Mid-Ci t y. Southeast Washington, and
Weat End Citlsens' associations, anc the
American Society of Fine Arta. Total. 10.
Against the referendum ? Anaroetia.
Chlllum Castle Heights, Cltlaena' North
west (suburban, Park Vi<w, Petworth,
R?ndle Highlands. Washington Civic.
North Washington, and Benning-Kenll
worth Citisens' associations. Total, 8.
The discussion started shortly after S
o'clock, when Jesee C. Suter scbmitted
a majority report of timp committee on
(IntncA and legislation, recommending
taht the resolution of the Brightwood
Park Aaaoclation, calling for a referen
dum rote of the people of the District on
the prohibition question, be rejected. The
majority faction of th?? committee argued
that to aak for a referendum would
weaken the stand taken by the federation
several weeks ago In favor of prohibition.
Charles R S tire ve. chairman of the com
mittee, then submitted a minority re
port urging a referendum, and moved
that hla report be adopted ?aa a substi
tute for the majority ?report. After two
hours of lively argument, the minority
report was adopted with the?? amend
ments: That women be permitted to
vote, and that In submitting the ques
tion to the people of the District Con
gress agree to abide by that vote.
Da^la I pkold? Krfem4iH.
Delegate Allan B. Dav's, in replying Ij
the argument of the Anti-Saloon .League
that a referendum would bind no one,
pointed out that the r?solutions of citi
zens* associations bind no one, and,
therefore, should not be offered to Con
gress as the voice of the people of the
District
Practically all of the opposition to the
referendum resolution waa made by dele
gates who voted for prohibition ?severa 1
weeks ago, although many of tho "drys"
Joined the "wets" in voting for the ref
erendum.
GERMAN WARSHIP R00N
CAPTURtD BY BRITISH
Report Received in New York Says
Teuton Vessel Battled with
Drake Two Hours.
Special to T?i. Waaliincto?? HcimKl.
New York, Feb. 5.?The Brltlah war
ship Drake has ?captured the Germa'i
warship Boon after a running fight o:
two hours and has taken the prise Into
Hamilton, Bermuda, according to a re
port In circulation in shipping circle?
here this afternoon.
The Roon wae built in lits; and dlaplae
ed H.??tO tona. She carried bml men. H#r
armament consisted of fttur ,.2-toch
gun.?, ten 6-inch guns, fourteen G?-pojnd
ers. four machine guns, four submerged
torpedo tube*.
The Drake mas built In March. 1*901. dis
placed 14.1(10 tons and carri?ed 80? men.
Her .armament consisted of two s .'.inch
guns, sixteen 6-inch; twelve l?-poundera.
three 5-pounders and two submerged tor
pedo tubes.
Two Bovs Are Drowned.
Philadelphia. Pa.. Feb. S? I.usem
Wheldon, l?, and his cousin Carl Hariug
ton, 11, were drowned late today in Ho*
wells Pond. Jilllvllle. N. J., when ice on
which they were skating broke anc
drotp-fd them Into the water. HaroU.
gave bis life to save the younger boy.
Mine Thief Killed.
Pott.iviUe. Pa., Feb. S.?Caught under
a fall of coal while robbing pillar, ?at
the Kast Bear Ridge Colliery* today. Max
Chabbon. X. was crushed to death.
Baden Frontier Clo?ed
landon. Feb. i.?The Baden frontier
has been closed since Friday evening.
according to a Centra* New, dlapatch
from Basle. Troop, hav, t>eeo Mat lo
L^lpxig to ?u*U net?
?
MRS, MOHR FREE
WHILE NEGROES
GO IMPRISON
Jury Finds Wife Not Guilty
of Irrigating Husband's
Murder.
VERDICT BRINGS SOBS
Brown and Spellman, Con
victed Blacks, Show No
Signs of Emotion.
B> -tOl-HIE TllliAn?B,U
eia~a>l ?? The WaahtnaTlaa? MmamX
? I'rovidenre. ? I. F. b i.-Mr? Rllia
beth K. Mohr. ctiarared wilh I neu*? tine
.the murder of her husband. Dr. C Frank
lin Mohr. aaa found not rullt y ????t-?
j The t?o nerroe?. Cacti VtcUnr Broaarn
?and Iltmj Fpeiiman. ebarxe? ?1th th?
?actual l.illins. avere found ruUt?
j The Jury broueht ln the ?ardlct fat 4.-R
o'clock It had been conattdaartnc th? eri
deine Mare ?? *n tlile mortili?.
A crowded eourtroejm wat chard Mn
.Mohr ?it stolidi?? while the verd?n ?a.
brine rca<V (?he did not look at the fore
man of the Jury while le wm spewklnf
f*he did not look at Brown and RpWlman
f-tlln? before her. 8?ie gated blindly
Into rrteee.
Brown, hia leaan. yellow fa?-e fte-ht?
drawn, had the look of an anlrjaal ?? ?
trap.
Spellman. unmoved a* error. Mt tip? ? 1
?hack in hie ?hair hla handa folded arroaa
? hi? cheat.
Nearra.a te? Priaea.
I At KM o'clock the cel?brate Mohr
' caae wa? flnlehed Mrs. JHohr. mr
. rounded by lawyer, and filanda, trat
J tenderly lifted Into m limousine on her
, way harne to freedom ?nd the nnd le
a put?d poeeeeslon of her hueband'a m*l
1 llan-dollar estate. The two nee-ro boye.
?*<-"-l Into a prison aa?n. waare on their
way to forirott?>n Uvee in Jal!.
Mrs Mohr arma the last of the tri?
to learn her f*te. ln response to th?
customary queartton ?a to whether ?b ?
Jury h?d reached ? verdict. Foremen
Charlea Cl?r*e declared "are h?vr "
Then. almost In one h rea* h. ?Tarke
snapped out :
"Victor Brown, arullty; Her-y ?pell
m?n. Ktiilty: Mrs. Elisabeth F. Mohr.
not (runty. "
Brown's thin Jaws, which h.-tl l?een
steadily chewing .?rum. stoppai* far a
moment, and then beg-an to work fu
riously. His ey,-e glanced ?round in
quick, startle??! faehkr. Then he eet
ll-d hlmiaelf f.rmly In hi? ch?tr.
Spellman n?-\er ii?o???a?*L His face did
not change e*rreeel??n.
(ahe. War <? la?a.
Mrs. M?a!?r Ksve a ?harp cry ?nd fell
forward on tha tsble before her. Grest
gasping aajt'e rhoaafc her fr?U body. Her
lawyere and friend? Fathered around her
and succeed aed in calming her.
Justice S'.earns then slimed th? formal
?t<?? for her re.ease ?nd ?h? ?ra? assisi -
ed to a ?altini-- limousin? which whirled
?a ay te h? r ' nine
Mr?. Mohr ima? fuiA? ha-twelf rich ?nd
Independent. She la no longer ? poelUon
les* wife, living with two children. In
furnished G???t?? on a? allenane? of SUN)
prr month, phe Is th? owner of a ?tun
ning Ht m pati 1 ealate ajrith ? town bou???
In Providence She Is the owner of auto
mobiles and fine horse?, and the mlstreta?
of nine servante at her Elmwood home.
Follow-in? the judge? eharfre this morn
Inc. Mr?. Mohr went lo her lawyers onV??
for the Ion? wait. Reoomlnaj we?rled, ?h?
nnallv went to lie?? Klmwood ?venue horn?.
The nearr.ae? were taken to cells
LOU TELLEGEN TO WED
GERALDINE FARRAR
Next Tuesday .Set as D*te for Cere
mony by Famous Metropolitan
Opera Star.
8taa??aal ??? T-aae -AaehtnarKae Hefelaat
New Tork. Fab ta ?G?raldine Farrar.
famous Metropolitan opera star, and 1.0U
Tellegen. actor. ?Ill be married he???
next Tuesday ?t noon. The announce
ment wes made tod??? eouplaad with th?
ftatemetit th?t this time there would b?
no denial by MU? Ferrare family
Mise Farrar has often declared ah?
would not wed until ?he waa ?*> ehe haa
auataa-rfd that her husband would be aa
Amerl??an and h?e r?ril< iiled reports that
she was to marry duke, prince or tenor,
notably Scotti, who unit Baron Scarpa??
to her Tosca Tet ehe Is to wed t?efor?
the Is tf? and her choice Is not an Amar?
lean.
The fair blu?-eved Mlaa Farrar will ha
? February G. Lasa Tellegen la Ho.land
bom. His father waa a Greek, his mother
French. ?? I? ?.
Miss Farrar*? romano? beanti ln th?
movie Audio ln California all month?
ago while ah? ?aa po?ir.g for th? "Car
men" picture?. T?Il?g?r. wa? ?lev? ha via?
his first pletore experience.
SCOTTI SEAIO??SLY ILL
New Tork. Fab. I.?Antonio 8??ttl the
famoua bar-.-tone. Is critically 111 lc bu
attartmaant at th? Hotel Knickerbocker.
He ha? been aufferlnc from pneumonia
for four daya. folloirtnc an atta?-* at
grippe, and hla ?Matita?? bu atreva
hteaai.i ? ?"?a.
