REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
Sidimond (Times-?i
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages (or a
Service of Unequalled Value
G6th YEAR
Would Give Up Share in Rich
tfiond, Frcdcricksburg and
Potomac Railroad.
BILL is being prepared
State Owns Fifteen Per Cent of
Corporation Run by Six
Railroads.
Mir Hat?) by tin* State of its holdings
in tin* Richmond. Krcilnioliglnirg: anil
Potomac Railroad Company, and the
applicat ion of the proceeds to the re
tirement of tlie iml.ll. debl. Ih proposed
in a 1 > i 11 now I ??? j n tc prepared l>.v Senator
' > Waiter Mapp, of Accoitiac. which
will in. introduced in the Ceneral As.
sembly thin week.
The Commonwealth owns approxi
mately ir? per cent of the mock of thin
road. acquired tw?i derations ago,
when ft was emerging from the stacc
coa. h status and developing as ;t rail
thoroughfare between Richmond and
Washington.
Senator Mapp ami his advisers have
ngiire.i out that if the state sells its
present holdings at the market price, it
will realize a sufficient amount from
the >a!o to retire enough of the Coin*
inon wealth's per cent IioihIm to effect
an annual saving to the State of more
than The common stock is
now quoted at about .150.
STATK lllt AWS I. A It (; I-:
incomi-: Kit<Mi s'rtu k
Die State owt 'i :\7:.2 shares of com
nion stock, with a par value of $275,000,
and dividend ohligations worth ahout
$01^.000 more, making tin; par value
of the Commonwealth's holdings ahout
l.iSu.000. The dividend of ? per cent,
which the State has been realizing in
recent years, amounts to S.IL'.MI. With
the extra scrip dividend of 50 per cent
on the stock and dividend obligations,
authorized by the company on Decem
ber 10, the income of the State from
its holdings will be increased to
J7S.r?62, providing the present dividend
rate Is maintained
Under the law, the dividend received
on the stock owned by the State goes
to the fund which has been created to
liquidate some day the public debt.
This fund is used regularly in buying '
In Virginia bonds and retiring them.
Interest continues to lie paid on the
bonds so bought in. so that the effect
Is cumulative, and snore bonds can be
purchased each year.
?KLie*Vrc STATK C Ot'I.D SAVK
liAIUiK M M IV IXTEIIliST I
Those who have made a study of the
situation for the purpose of framing
the bill to be introduced by Senator
Mapp make the assertion that the State i
could sell its holdings on the open
market and invest the proceeds in its
own .1 per rem bonds, in this manner
eliminating in Interest $30,000 more
annually than it would receive in divi- j
?lends if the railroad stock were held. I
The framers of the bill, it is stated, j
are also impressed with the desir- )
ability of removing the Richmond.
Krerlet icUsbut g and Potomac Railroad
from even the shadow of State prefer
ence. In former years the toad en
joyed material exemptions because of
the State's paitial ownership. Several
years ago, however, the r?>ad obtained
a new franchise, paying to the Com
monwealth alone about $175,000 !;i back
taxes, besides large sums to the sepa
rate counties, cities and towns. Under
the new chatter, the Richmond. Fred
ericksburg and Potomac enjoys no
privileges not aocorcUyl to other rail
roads in the Stale, and is in every
other respcct on the same footing.
Moont-: not iits wisdom
or sam-: at this timij
Auditor of Public Accounts <\ l.ee
Moore, discussing the proposed bill,
last night expressed the opinion that
it was a matter which is deserving of
the most cautious consideration.
"The Cieneral Assembly ought to go
very slow with any movement looking
to the sale of the State's holdings in
this property," said Mr. Moore. "The
stock is very valuable and constantly
increasing in value, and it may be open
to serious question whether the State
would he justified, from the standpoint
of gooil business, in selling its stock
even at a very high price. In order to
be considered seriously at all. the stock
would have to be sold at a price which
will make possible the retirement, of
enough State bonds to make the in
terest of these bonds equal to the 3
per cent dividend which the common
stock pays.
"Kven if the railroad stock could be
sold for more than three times its par
value, tho transaction would be of
doubtful profit. In parting with Its
stock, the State loses all chance of
participating in another melon-cutting
like the one of last December, which
increased the State's income from this
source 50 per cent at one swoop."
STOCK HAS IMMKXSK
I'l I I l?V: I'OSSfIIIMTIKS
One of the leading stockbrokers in
the city last night called the proposal
to sell the State's Richmond, Fred
ericksburg and Potomac stock a piece
of business which would be extremely
ill-advised on the part, of the Com
monwealth. The State, he said, owned
In this stock property which is the
j3iost valuable of its kind in the coun
try, with future possibilities that can
not be estimated.
In support of the sale of the State's
holdings, it is urged that this railroad
would be deprived of even the remotest
claim on the Stale's good oiliees. Un
der present conditions, proposals look
ing to the expenditure of a large sum
of money for improvements aro fre
quently met with the objection that tlio
Commonwealth, as seventh-part owner,
Vould have to stand part of the ex
pense. The divorce proposed by the
now bill would leave the State abso
iContinued on Tenth Page.)
AT?.ANTA-mimiN<illAM-NI-\V OHI.EAVN
ASHKVIM.K-.MKM PUIS
Three trains daily, 10:30 A. M., 6:00 I'
M. mill II :1ft P. M? via HOUTI1KKN HA 11/^
WAY. Pullmani Sleeping C<u?, Coaches.
Fhon?, Madison 372,
Residents Must Assist
in Strengthening Levees
WASH I\l?TON? Krlirtmry r?.?Of
flcliil Wnr Deportment report* to
?lny <>ii llir .MIhmInmIppI Volley flood
m11iinlIon liulleiite llint wrrloiin trou
ble inny ri'Niill In (he region noulh of
ArkmiNiix Itlver mil can tlie renlilentN
tliorr lifinlHt In iilrriiKll>rnlii|; the
Irvvcw. Our of tlie mont rnrluu*
?l I III i'(i 11 le*. Il iinn until, nn? the
*enre|t y ?f Inbor, nml tlierc **ere
Intimation* (lint (lie 1'etlernI odlrrrx
tvoulil lie u u t Ii orl/.ed to provide ra
tion* only for thoMe wlio nlionrd n
<)Im|iunItlon to :ini>ilNt tlirni.
A report front tlie chief enirlnecr
ollleer nt % icknliMrtr, MIkn.i nnld the
|e\crn Hire lielug Nllltjrvlfil to n
neifre tr*t. Imt Hut! there wnfi II n
excellent pronpeet tluil tliey ttoiiIiI
liolil If the ulille populntlon put up
n proper light.
MIGHTY FL000 ENGULFS
POflTION OF ARKANSAS
Southeastern Section of Slate I'ates
Perilous Situation as Water*
Continue t *? Rise.
i,i:vi:i;s K.\rii)Lv \vi:aki:.\IS(i
Score or More of Villages Disappear,
and Several ??f Larger Towns Are
Threatened With Destruction?Aid
Is Urgently Needed.
A UK ANSA 8 CITY, AUK., February
5.?-Southeastern Arkansas to-night is
engulfed in out of the mightiest floods
in the history of the State. which
hourly is swelling to gr< ater propor
tions and adding to its toll. Approxi
mately 10'*,000 acres of fertile farm
lands is Inundated, a score or more
'?'iliac s have disappeared in the over
flow, and .several of the larger towns
are threatened with destruction.
The situation here and at Clarendon.
MCJehee and Lake Village, already
flooded by "bii1 k water" ami menaced
by rapidly weakening levee? which pro
tect<rl the towns from the rush of th**
water, is critical. North of Arkansas
City, Chbot Lake. which has served sis
a. reservoir for a volume of water,
threatens to break through the dike
which protects this city. Should the
embankment give way, it is feared
Arkansas City will be wrecked. Back
water which entered thoMity yesterday
to-night covered tlie business section
to a depth of six feet, and in the resi
dential district only the tops of houses
art showing above the water.
I.lt.irr AMI W ATIIlt I'l.ANTS
Ot T OK COMMISSION'
Light and water plants are out of
commission, and with bands of refugees
here and only a scant supply of food
available. outside aid must come
? luletcly All railroad service h.i>-'
dis<-ont!ntjed, ;?;. ? 1 the only mentis of
? omtnunioation is by boat
At <'*larendoti every man who re
mained i!i the town was at work to
night topping White River levee with
sandbags. The water oaily to-ntglit
was within :t few inches of tlie top of
t!>e embankment, as ;i result of a foui -
foot rise in the riv> r during the day.
!.ake Village, with tho exception of
a narrow elevation on the west bank
of Lake Clli' Ot 1^ I'OM-svil with back
wat'-r. which Is ris:!;:; rapidly. Several
thousand refugees and all of tlie live
stuck that could be driven before the
flood are gathered on the highlands, and
are in need of food.
Sill TIIKASTKII V VHKANSAS IN
I'Kltll.OI'S SITt \TIO.N
I.ITTI.K l>OC|\, ARK.. February 5 ?
Residents of th? territory in the south
eastern cornet of Arkansas to-night
] faced a perilous situation. Two-thirds
] of Lincoln. Desha and Chicot Counties
I are covered with water, which is tlow
i ing sout ii .var;i through a half dozen
breaks in Arkansas Iiiver levees. Ar
Uansas City. .Mefiehee and l?ake Village,
and dozens of smaller towns are
flooded, and the high stage of the Mis
sissippi River added a now danger. At
Arkansas City the level of the .Mis
sissippi River is lifteen feet above the
town
Sc far ail Mississippi River levees are
repotted holding, and the tlootl waters
Inside the levees are certain to weaken
the mud at Arkansas City, where the
stage of the Mississippi late to-day was
fifty-five and one-half feet, the highest
ever known. Water from the Arkansas
River (lood is six to eight feet deep in
the main streets of the town, and ex
pected to go at least three feet higher.
About 1.000 residents havo left the
city, which now is cut off from com
munication with the outside world, ex
cept Ly boat. There are ii00 homeless
ami hungry persons In the town.
A dispatch early to-night said that
the Chicot levee is in such a weakened
condition that should it break, Arkan
sas City would be wiped off the map.
The dispatch said immediate aid is
needed.
smtioi s CONDITION'
l-'.VIS'l'S AT Cl.AKIC.VDON
A serious condition also exists at
Clarendon, where the White River rose
four feet to-day.
Sheriff Frank Milwee lo-night tele
phoned from Clarendon that water is
but a few inches from the top of the
levee, but he said every man in the
town was at work on the levee, and he
was confident of winning the fight.
Five hundred people left the town
to-day.
Railroad officials and Murray Auer
bach, of Little Rock, representative of
the American Red Cross, left late to
day for the flooded district along the
lower course of the Arkansas. The
train carried a great supply of food and
provisions and a big motor launch with
which lo deliver the food It was
feared that falling waters will reveal
that many lives havo been lost, in addi
tion (to thoso already xoportod,
APPAM OWNERSHIP :
STILL OPEN ISSUE;
Problem May Not Be Solved:
Until After End of Euro
pean War.
CLAIMS ARE CONFLICTING'
State Department Has Given No
Indication That Decision
Is Near.
\V A .V H 1 \" T N. Fcbruarv -The"
question of ownership of t li o British
! st earn-'hip Appam. brought into Hamn-'
ton Ho.-tds by a German prize cn-w, may'
remain an open Iksuo until the end of'
tin* war. with the ship rnrantim?* held j
li ih? custod\ "f American oniri cs a?
Ni'wport News.
'"onHlctintr claims nn behalf of <".-r-|
!iiany and Kngland arc being considered 1
l.v the State Department ami the r.eu-i
j
, trality board, but there Ims b-en no,
indication of a decision. Officials gen-|
? ? i a H v are inclined to 111- view, how-j
-v.;-, that the c.-tse mU5t be governed
by the Prussian treaty of whl'b j
aranf Prussian prizes free <:;try lOj
A me rl> an ports, and declar-v that they j
"may freely be carried out again at anyj
lime by their raptors t?? th- place- ?*x- |
press-d in their i commissions" A;
literal construction of that provision.;
which some ofliclals favor, would per- |
mil the Appam to remain ii.detlnitely I
at Newport News.
That the treaty has not been eon-j
strued literally in initial consideration'
nf the Appam i.'jso. however, Is evi
denced. it is pointed out. by the fact
that the chip was searched, and that
some form of legal process was served (
. i>y the customs collectcr to procure dis
charge of the prisoners. Both of these j
things are expressly prohibited In,
article l!< of the treaty.
officials are Inclined to believe that,
a formal ruling by the department as!
to whether the 1'russiati treaty or The.
llacu- convention of l'.'OT should gov
ern the case would not, after all, con-,
tii m title to the Appam. but simply1
would determine the length of her stay;
j In port. The practical effect of a de- j
i ision would be to determine the ques-;
tion of whether Gieat Britain would,
be put to the trouble of maintaining j
t Indefinitely a warship patrol otf the i
JChesapeake capes to prevent the escapei
' of the ship. Kventua.il>*, a German prize!
i court must pass upon the title, and
even after that the ultimate disposi
tion of the Appam, if she remains in
port, doubtless will depend upon the'
i -suit <?f the w ar.
I
u\u, !*? iiitni <>ht \siiohi-:
AND Si:NT TO V? A Nil I Mi'l'tl V
NKWIViUT NEWS. VA . February ."?? J
? ('li- hundred and fifty-three hags ot j
tii st-class mail from the steamship !
Appam. I-; ought h-r. by a <"<? riiiini p'rize
w, tills aft-r noon w-r? forwarded i
to Washington for shipment to Km:- :
land and France. The mail is all from
tjie citi-s of the west coast of Africa, j
'Che parcel post carried by the Appam
is- still aboard the steamer, ami. accord
ing to customs authorities, will remain
there until the status of the steamer is
determined by the State department.
lieutenant l'.erg chafes while await
ing tii- decision, although he says he
r?aliz-s the question is one that can
not be decided in a day. To-day lie
asl-ced for ?'?'> tons of coal for port uaes,
and indicated that he desired to tie
the Appam up at a local pier until the
State Department renders its decision.
Both requests were referred to Wash
ington. l.ieutenant Berg has assured
the port authorities that the bombs
aboard the Appam are not a menace.
; to navigation. It Is reported on re
liable authority that the bombs are
nothing more than hand grenades.
Mild cases of malaria have developed
I among several <>f the seven Germans
who were military prisoners of the
English. The men are in no danger, it
' is said. The commander was given
permission to come ashore for medi
cines and other necessities. While
ashore lieutenant. Berg had several
kegs of beer placed aboard the steamer.
The three women, wives of three of
the Germans who were civil prisoners
of the Knglish. to-day were given per
mission by tii- collector of customs to
come ashore to purchase clothing suit
able for this climate. The women ex
plained that the clothing they used in
I South Africa was too light for wear
j here. One complained of the monotony
'of the wait on shipboard, and said that
all?commander, prize crew and others
j?are searching for additional tasks
? at which to employ their minds and
! hands.
! pho\ isio.ns or Tin; magi k
CO.VKKIti:\C10 11101,1) VOID
BKKLIX. February r> (by wireless to
Sayville).? The Cologne Gazette, dis
I cussing Great Britain's claim to the
j Appam on the ground that the terms
'of the. thirteenth convention of the
I 1S07 conference at The Hague annul
I those of the treaty between the United
j.States and Prussia, declares that the
provisions of The Hague convention are
void for two. reasons.
The lirst of these is, the newspaper
! states, that Great Britain never rati
i tied the convention, and, second, that
paragraph 28 specifically declares that
the conditions of the agreement are in
force only between signatories, and
then only when all parties at war liavo
signed.
The Gazette points out that Serbia.
Montenegro, Turkey, Italy and Kngland
never ratified the provisions.
George >1. Iteynold* Improved.
r.OS ANGIOMAS, February 5.?George
M. Beynolds, the Chicago banker, who
has been critically ill here since early
yesterday, was reported to be greatly
Improved lato to-day, but his physicians
?aid. ho was not out of danger.
DOCTORS TO ERECT :
OFFICE BUILDING
Seven-Story Structure Planned
for Southeast Corner of Fifth
and Franklin Streets.
MANY PHYSICIANS INTERESTED
Preliminary Meeting Is Meld at
Westmoreland Club, When i
Plans Arc Discussed.
Plans for a seven-story professional!
huiIdintr, to '?>?* erect od on the old ?
?Shield property, ;it the southeast cos-!
tirr of Kifth and Franklin S'treets, were!
formulated at a meeting of about I
twenty-five lending ph vsi ia ns, rur-i
I
tr'-oiis and dentists in the Westmoreland
Club last night. The building, which '
will cost approximately ? 1 I.OOrt. will,
be of fireproof construction throughout.!
and will be restricted to ihe use of the:
profession.
Nr. I^awienre T. Price. chairman of
tiie ?-ommittce In charge of the erec
tion of the new building, said last nisrht
that forty-four doctors had alre'td.v
agreed to take olllces in the building,
and that several others expected to
take rpjarters as soon as definite ar
rangements could be closed.
A professional building, such as will
be constructed, is entirely new to Itich
mond. A large proportion of the phvsi
ciai.s and surgeons of the city will
have their offices here, and it will be
made a center for the profession.
Charles M. Hobinson has been enijaiied
to prepare the plans for the structure,
and he was Instructed last night to
complete them as soon as possible.
\\ it.I. I'hmvu>r, man*
CON VKMKM KS KOK IXXTUItS
< Mi the main floor of the building will
be located the private branch telephone
exchange, through which all olllce tele
phone connections will be made, and a
general information bureau. The phy
sicians will advise the telephone oper
ator where they may be found when
they leave their offices.
The building will have a frontage of
sixty feet on Franklin and 120 feet on
Fifth Street, with entrances fiom both
streets. <?ne main corridor will run
through the entire building parallel
with Franklin Street, while at the ends
there will be two short corridors, and.
with the light well to he constructed
on the alley, all rooms will be on the
outside, providing an abundant supply
of natural light.
The exterior appearance through the
architectural work will imply the pur
pose for which the building will be.
used. The architects have promised the
physicians a structure that will be
twenty years ahead of the times, with
the very latest appliances in the way
of heating, lighting and plumbing.
The street floor will be arranged for
stores, but these will be connected with
the prof.-ssion. It i? planned to have
a drug store, a dental supply store, a
druggists' supply store, and any other
lines of convenience to physicians.
>1 \ \ Al)l? \ DIHTIO V A I,
STOItllOS i,ati:h ON
A feature of the building, the steel
work of which will be so constructed
that in event more space is needed,
three additional stories may be added,
is that the upper floor* will only have
the main partitions run under the gen
eral plans. The physician will be
asked to g o over the building and
select his location, inform the architect
where he wants the partitions run. the
location of electric lights and water
pipes, how large a reception room he
will require, and the location of all
apparatus that will make the building
convenient and attractive.
A moderate rental will be charged
for the offices, based on the floor space
used, and this charge will be on the.
average rents now charged by other
buildings of this character throughout
the country. Plans are going ahead,
and it is probable that actual const ruc
tion work will In started in the early
spring.
Among those interested in the build
ing are some of the leading members
of the profession in llichmond, and of
such caliber to assure the erection of
this structure, "which will be one of lite
i largest erected in Ittchmoml in some
! time. The ground has already been
I cleared, and once all details are ar
: ranged, the actual work can be rushed
to completion. While not yet definitely
; determined, it has been suggested that
i space be reserved for the meetings of
j the Academy of Medicine and Surgery,
: and that steps be taken for the ac
! cumulation of a special library on
medical topics for the use of the
physicians of the city.
! Richmond's
Dollar Day
There are a lot of wonderful
values to be had for $1.00, and
the, Richmond merchants have
decided to offer them to the
public on
I February / 6
Richmond's
Dollar Day
Keep this date in mind and
watch The Times-Dispatch on
the -day of the sale for sur
prising announcements. This
store news will be twelve
hours later than any other.
MRS. MOHR FREED; '
NEGROES GUILTY
Woman Acquitted on Charge of
Having Instigated Murder
of Husband.
JURY OUT OVER SEVEN HOURS
Men Accused of Actual Killing
Get Terms of Life
Imprisonment.
i
I'HOVI DKNCPI, Ft. I.. February a?'
Mrs. Klizaheth F. Molir to-day was
acquitted of tin; charge of listvintr in-,
stigated the mtii*il?-1> <if lu r husband,
J>t\ C.j Franklin Moiir.
C. Victor llrown ami Henry II Spell-;
man. negroes. accused of the actual
killing, wore fotin<J guilty. The penalty
is life Imprisonment. Tlio Jury re- \
ported at ?!:07 o'clock, after having
lioen out since D):iiO o'clock tliisl
morning.
Mrs. Mohr swoon'?l while tli?? fore
man was aiiliouiuiiiK tlx* verdiet. Il>*r]
head drooped forwanl. aii'l she was j
slipping from her chair when her at- j
Honeys grasped ami supported her.
while a court otlieer rushed for a ulass j
of water.
"Is tiiere any other charge against
these defendants'."' inquired Justice'
Steji rjis.
"There is. Your Honor." replied At
torney-! leneral Hire, "hut Mrs. >l?hr is
on bail on the other charge."
"The defendants, Brown and Spoil
man, are committed, without hail." said
t h ?? court, "and Mrs. Molir is dis
charged from custody on this com
plaint."
ASSAI'l.T OX .MISS III"Itti 10It
IS OTIIKIt CHAItC.K I
The other charge against Mrs. Molir j
I and the two negroes is that they com
mitted an assault on Miss Kmily Bur
! ger, with Intent to kill. Miss Burger
j was shot while riding with Dr. Molir on
1 the i>il;Itt he was attacked. Brown and
Spelltnati are accused of actually tiring
tile shots at Miss Hurler, while Mrs.!
Molir is ciiarged with being an acces
sory before, the fact.
The Jurymen looked tired and worn
as they passed into the courtroom.
After each man had taken his place
in the jury box, the clerk asked the
foreman:
"Do you And the defendant. Cecil
j Victor Brown, guilty or not guilty'."'
( As the foreman replied. "Guilty," Mrs.
Molir collapsed. The clerk continued:
! "l>o you find the defendant, Henry
! Spellmnn, guilty or not guilty?"
1 "Guilty."
I "Do you find the defendant. Elizabeth
i F. Molir, guilty or not RiiiltyV"
"Not guilty." ?
' A IM'AIIKXTI.V IX S IM I'Oll
\\ iu:\ \ i:iti)i?. r is t.i\ i:\
Mrs. Mohr apparently was in a
'stupor when the foreman pronounced
i the words "not guilty." She recovered
j ijuickly, however.
"The tight lias only begun." was the
comment of William II. Lewis, counsel
for Brown, who said that he might
I carry the case to the Supreme Court,
j Attorney-General Rice declined t<
comment on the verdict. He would not
1 say when the other cliurge against
; Mrs. Molir would be tried, if at all.
; The trial began .lanuarj lo. ami the
; jury had been kept together all the
lime. Thev went to their respective
|
homes for the tirst time in four weeks
! to-night.
Dr. Mohr, a physician practicing in
this city and Newport, was shot fatally
.on the evening <>f August ."> ]. Hil.%, as
! Ii?' was sitting in his stalled automohile
,in a lonely spot in Barringtou.
George \V. Ilcalis. the negro chauf
feur. made a confession, in which he
alleged that Mrs. Mohr had agreed t>>
pay him. Brown and Spellman
j if they would murder her husband
The police also claimed that the
j other two negroes made confessions,
j which were subsequently repudiated.
! ilcalis pleaded guilty t? ? manslaughter,
and became a witness for the Stale.
: SKI*A It ATIOX SI ITS I'KXIIINfi
AT TIM 10 <>!?' .Ml itnr.it
i >r. and Mrs. Mohr had been living
?apart for two years, as a result of
1 quarrels growing out of his alleged at
tentions to Miss Burger and other
' women. Separation suits were pend
ing, and the State claimed that Mrs
Mohr sought her husband's death for
revenge and to obtain his estate. The
defense maintained that Mrs. Mohr
loved her husband, ami that she had
i been involved in the case by the ac
i tual murderer, who hoped i litis to miti
Igate his own punishment.
.ludgo Stearns, in his charge to the
I jury, declared that it was their duty,
| if they concluded the State had proved
its case, to say "guilty." whatever t In
consequences. in each case or in any
case.
"The law recognizes no color, no
) creed," the court said. "I'ay no regard
J to the fact that one defendant is a
i woman and two are. negroes. They are
j three, citizens on trial, and I charge
j you not to allow any prejudice or fcel
j ing, excepting an honest desire to do
impartial justice, enter you'r minds"
"Tlio law in regard to principals in
a crime," the court explained, "is this:
Where any persons are present, aiding
and abetting in the actual commission
j of a crime-?-in this case it is murder
; they are equally guilty with those who
! actually commit the crime. Mrs. Mohr
I has been indicted as an accessory be
fore the fact. if you find she hired,
! aided, procured, assisted one or both
i of the other defendants, she is guilty."
i:\im.ai\s nr.citr.i>: or imioof
\i:ci:ssAit v to coxvict
Judge Steams then explained the de
gree of proof necessary to convict, say
l Ing: "All three defendants are in
dicted together, but you will bring In
three verdict.^. The verdicts will he
individual, as though there had been
three separate trials." _
The court asserted that under the
law an accessory" cannot he convicted
unless one or both of tlio' principals is
found guilty, and, therefore, that It
.(Continued on Jo nth, r*se,>.
Acquitted by Jury
Mils. KM/.AHKTIl p. MOI1II,
ROLFE E. SOILING MAT
j SUCCEED WILLIIIM INGLE
Native Virginian. and Rrotlierof Mrs.
Wondrmv Wilson, Heing
t 'onsidorod.
!
I l.'IU.'KI) HV fiOVMIlXOIt STTAKT
No Announcement .Made of Appoint
i ment as Federal A^ent for Kirli
mmid Bank, lint .Members of Hoard
Inclined to l-'avor I lis Sclortion. '
j I SpeoiaI to The Times-Dlspn tell ]
WASHINVlTON', February 5.?It was
111 tlmulctl to-day that Rolfe K. Rolling,
tormerly of Baltimore, ami now the
; inanftper of the Panama brunch of the
j <"omniorciHl Xntlonal Hank of Wnsli
j i tig ton, Is slated to succeed William
i Riffle as Federal reserve apent and
' chairman of the hoard i.f the Richmond
! or Fifth Olstrict Reserve Rank,
j Mr. Rolling is :i native Virginian.
and in tlie brother of Mrs. Woodrow
' ^ 11 son. hut was for many years ac
| lively engaged in hanking in R.iltl
nior.- lie has been in the I'nited States
j lor some time, having come to Wash
ington to attend the wedding of his
sister to t h<> President. 11,% recently
, visited llovernor Stuart at Richmond.
\o \ \ mii \t i:?ii:\T m v hi:
<?r .\I'i'oi\t>ii-:.vr vi:t
Xo announcement has been made of
tli.- appointment of Mr. Ingle's suc
cessor by the Feder:i 1 ' Itese'rve Hoard.
I hat body, it is known, has a number
of mimes under advisement. and that
J the name of Mr. Moiling is one of them,
j From a responsible source the informa
I * ion came to-da\ that members of the
I board were inclined to select Mr
: Rolling.
! In* vacancy in the chairmanship at
Richmond will not aetuall occur until
j February II. when Mr Ingle retires to
| become preside nt of tin- Maltimore 1
! Trust Company. Meantime, the Fed- |
(eraI Reserve Hoard, whose agent is the I
: clia irtn.-tn of the Fiftii liistrict board,!
t will thoroughly cansass the situation
jam! pi*- 1c the banker w h ? ? seems in he'
' best iiualilied for the exacting duties I
which .Mr. Ingle will la\ down.
. Mr. I tolling, whose hanking experi
encrt cnvi'is twenty years, was in
Panama for more than a \ear as Hie'
| ma linger ?> f the Washington branches i
in tin- Canal /.one. lie has been hiuh-i
ly successful in the m:i n.t g ement of
.these branches, but It is understood
that he is anxious to return permanent -
! 'he 1 "nited States. and that the
Richmond position would be portion- '
| larly at tractive to him.
, <;<>vi:n\oit s i i \in< w \ )C ^
I \ DllltS MS IIOI.I.IM;
Governor Henry C\ Stuart, of Vlr
n into. to-night in It telegram to Ib-p.
; resetita t ive i arter tilass, chaiiman of
the Hanking and I'ln'renc^ * "ommitlee.
recommended Mr. Rolling as a successor
to Mr. Ingle, as Federal reserve agent
, at Richiiioud
j Governor Stuart declares "Rolling
- possesses the highest order of equip
ment for the position, having trave'ed
for live years over the territory now
embi.1, eil in the fifth Federal Reserve
liistrict as soli, nor for the First Na
tional Rank of Halt I more, having" made
a great success of the bank of wh<eh
lie is now ma nagei ,:t Panama, and
having devoted twenty-live years of
I his life to the hanking business ?
I
TEIPER IN COUNTY JAIL
ill lie V rrnig oeil on Hominy in (
II eel Ion Willi Murder of T?vo
Members or 111* l-'omll>.
HI I'FAI.o, \ v., Fehriiiirv After
the transfer of John Kdward Tcipet
j from a cell at police headquarters to
! the county jail to-day. it was ,ii
iiounced by the authorities that he will
bo arraigned before a tungisttalc on
Monday in Connection with the murder
of two members of the Toiper family
last Sunday night.
A crisis is approaching in the con
dition of tlroce .1. Teiper, who was
beaten on the head. The hospUal sur
Keon.s believe she will return to a
noimal stall- of mind within a short
time or will collapse and die. She talks
fref|iient!y, but appears to be unable to
uonccntrato hor mind on the Questions
aakod hor.
FOR SETTLEMENT
Phrase Substituted for Word
"Illegal" Covers Prin
ciples Involved.
KILLING OF AMERICANS
IS WITHOUT INTENT
Destruction of Liner Act of Re
prisal and Should Not Be
Applied to Neutrals.
I I-..N I \ I F\ K DRAFT Sl'IiMITTRD
Approaches Xoarer Desires of United
Stales Than Any Heretofore
Consitlereil.
^ \MI l.VGTON*. February ? For the
word illegal." which (icrmany was un
willing to incorporate in the tentative
draft >.r iho Lnsitaiiia aerfcmciit, the
" r Foreign OfTI.-c ha- substituted a
phrase which certain high authorltlon
"? position to J..- familiar with the
.'tatus ot th'1 negotat ions consider
1 **rs all th?" principles Involvo'l in tho
question of submarine warfare.
The language substituted for the ob
ject lonahle wor<l "illegal" in a tenta
tive communication now being con
sidered by I'rosldent Wilson, avers that
<lie killing of Americans in tho I.uhI
n 1 ??"as?ter was without Intent, be
cause the destruction of the Ounard
liner was an act of reprisal, and the
German government agrees that re
prisals should not be applied to
neutrals.
1 rom various diplomatic and official
quarters to-night came the Information
li.it the outlook is promising for an
early settlement. It was indicated that
the tentative form of settlement, which,
should it prove acceptable to tho United
States, will he embodied In a formal
communication from Oermanv ap
proaches nearer the desires of the
nited States than any yet submitted
with authority of Berlin ofTlcial*.
I.WSlVfj -AM) ItKICVSTOItKF
?MKIVr UIUTR ?XKOIOIAI.IjY
Secretary Lansing and Count Ttern
storff. the German ambassador. ,,u-t
quite informally in the Metropolitan
Club here to-day and talked for a short
time. Although it was not disclosed
Just what was said, the ambassador
seemed extraordinarily optimistic at
the conclusion of the talk.
The cardinal points of the tentative
of settlement were obtained to
night. The agreement Is prefaced with
: the statement that submarine warfare
| In th,- Xorth Sea was inaugurated by
Germany in retaliation for what sho
I regarded as the "illegal" British block
j ade under the orders in council
" then states that the method of
conducting submarine warfare in the
J North Sea has been modified on ac
count ..f the friendship Germany has
j ,.1"1 rniUMl States, and because of
I lite fact that American lives have been
j 1 ost. Germany says that the killing
. Of Americans was not intended, and.
J in ;i<1<litinh io regret for
! III.' loss Of American lives, assumes
j liability au<l offers reparation In the
| form of Imlemnit
J l-:xri<l-:ss|.:K It 1C A I) I V I :ss
to ( (t-oi'Kinri: with u. s.
The last portion of the document
| expresses th.- readiness of Germanv to
I co-operate With the United States In"
any effort looking toward the freedom
| of i he seas.
Secretary l.ansing sent the draft to
, resident Wilson last night. lie proh
al-ly will conf.r with the President on
. oinl.iv. i oniit von liernstoriY expects
* ?*?'*??! to the State Department
some time .Monday or Tuesday. Secre
J;?ry l.ansi.,g allowed it (lt become
Uiimwii io-da\ that he might have some
announcement on the I.usitania case
to make within the next few days.
INSISTS S 1 \ |\ I v <; l.t \ |* It
w VS \<"|' OK IIKTAI.IVI'IO Y
I special to The Times-Dispatch.]
^ ASHIXGTOX, I-'ebruary f>.? It was
possible to-day for tho first time to
obtain iletlnite and reasonable complete
I 11:t'ormation regarding Germany's an
sw.r on the I.usitania case, delivered
j to the state Department yesterday.
G. i many tiiaiiitaius that the sinking
? ?f t i.- I.usitania was an act of retalia
; tion against meat llrltaln: that, as
su?h. it was legal: but she acknowl
i edge that an act of retaliation is not
' juMitiod when it imperils tho safety of
! neutrals
' "?! uiati v makes an explicit iirimis
-,o!i oi h>-r obligation to pay indemnity
'he American lives lost with the
I.usitania.
T''e demands or the United States
were that Germany should acknowledge
: 'he killing of Americans was
??illegal." and that she should admit Iter
I obligation k? pay indemnity.
I lie tit st >?' Germany - admissions,
therefore, falls .short to a certain ex
i tent of the assurances asked by the
I idled States, the s-von l complies
with the American demand. The lat
j lei. at least, is a concession on Oer
; mativ s part, lleretoror . her position
has been that she was willing to pay
indemnity as a matter of ma--, not
as an obligation.
I he ? ines(ion to be decided by I'resi
; dent Wilson Is whether GermanVs ad
mission that art act of retaliation, such
the Sinking of th.: I.usitania. Is not
.lustificil when it imperils the lives of
neutral.-!, is if, purpose and effect suf
ficiently like ati admission of the
illegality of the killing of Americans
to be satisfactory to this government.
German reply on this proposition,
a has been established definitely, does
not contain the word "illegal."
gi:hiiav iiki'i.y Ki'Koitr
T? S'l'lt IK 10 (OMI'ltinilSK
The German reply, u lH bellovod. i*
.in cuort to strike a compromise, which
recognizes the merit of: each govern
ments contention, and at the ?,amo
time has tho effect of granting tho
point lafiia^e^ upon by the jUn,lt?4
