' ? ;
i j
EIGHT PARTS I C /\/ t T. if ! Ov,rc? ^^"^fmorrow; not
,nclud.no />? !> # mctw4^
! Star's Sunday Magazine j * 1 I ^ y |l |7 1 I ? I I JT 1 I I AM I
I AndColor^micSeCtion 1 lUtVil
... - :. -^
No. 567.-No. 20,220. : WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 6, 1916* FIVE CENTS.
GERMANY OFFERS TO SI
A PHRASE FOR WORD
AND LUSITANIA CRIS
Would Declare Sinking of Ship Reprisa
and Promise Neutrals Immunity
From Such Acts.
PRESIDENT NOW CONSIDERING
LAST PROPOSAL OF TEUTONS
Id Various Diplomatic and Official Quarters Early Settle
ment Is Looked For and Secretary Lansing
Promises Important Announcement Shortly.
For the word "illegal" which Germany was unwilling
to incorporate in the tentative draft of the Lusitania agreement.
the Berlin foreign office has substituted a phrase
which certain high authorities in a position to be familiar
with the status of the negotiations consider covers all the
principles involved in the question of submarine warfare.
The language substituted for the objectionable word
"illegal" in a tentative communication now being considered
hv President Wilson avers that the killin? of Ameri
cans in the Lusitania disaster was without intent, because
the destruction of the Cunard liner was an act of reprisal
and the German government agrees that reprisals should
not be applied to neutrals.
From various diplomatic and official quarters last night
came the information that the outlook is promising for an
early settlement.
It was indicated that the tentative form of settlement,
which, should it prove acceptable to the United States,
will be embodied in a -formal communication from Germany,
approaches nearer the desires of the United States
than any yet submitted with authority of Berlin officials.
Secretary and Ambassador Confer, | row or Tuesday. Secretary [.ansini
Secretary I.anslnK and Count von I allowed it to become known ySsterda:
^ omh??sador mat ne might have some announce
Bernstorff. the ^?rr"an Metropoli- nient on the I-u??tania case to mak
met quite informally, in^ the Metropoli^ ^ ^ few days
tan Club here >ea e wa^ not in view of the nature of the phras
for a short tlme- there was which the German government is un
disclosed just w a w ' dor had derstood to have submitted so as no
no intimation that the am ? haVe to i to include the word "illegal" in con
been informed that hle m g nt on \ nection with the killing of neutrals
communicate with his g am_ attention last night was called to th
the subject- afc*in- " din* riiv 0pti- iast formal note to Germany, in whicl
bassador seemed ex raordlnanij oP Secretary Lan8inK wrote:
mistic at the c?"clus10 , the tentative "In view of the admission of illegal
The cardinal poU? obtained last Ity made by the imperial governmen
form of m-nt j? prefaced when it pleaded the right of retalia
Bight. The 'submarine Uon in defense of its acts, and in viev
with the ^ pea* waa inaugu-jof the manifest possibility of conform
r/te^'bv Germanv in retafiation 'for ing to the established rules of inter
rated t>> ??er illegal'"! national warfare, the government o
BHtU biock'Se und?r the order* in , the United States . annot, believe tha
? Brit sn oiocivrt , ?he imperial government w ill longer re
council. j Train from disavowing the wanton ac
Submarine Warfare Modified. of its naval commander in sinking th.
luh itan ia.
It then states that the method of
conducting submarine warfare ft. the German Internal Conditions.
North sea has been modified on ac- lt was asserted yesterday that th
count of the friendship Germany has .state Department had shown a coinplet
for the I'nited States, and because of readiness to fall in line with Germany"
the fact that American lives have been ideas so far as it could without sacri
lost. Germany says that the killing j flf-ing the main issues involved. Offi
of Americana was not intended, and in|<.-jals are described as having beei
addition to expressing regret for the:move(| lo some extent by a considers
loss of American lives, assumes liabil-j tton for the infernal political situatioi
, ? in T>ie form 11 ? Germany and the recognized flange
l,c and offer* reparation In the form j|o th<> pre?r|, (;erlniJ|1 ,.abinet %
of indemnity. j strengthening the hand of a powerfu
Th- fast portion of the document ex- minority party which froni the begin
this readiness of Germany to ning has advocated the extreme view
co-operate with the Cnited States In 'of Admiral von Tirpitz regarding th
eey effort looking toward the freedom I erit i r e question of submarine warfare,
o* the" ?ea?. ' German ofti< ials here are in aceor
Se -erary Lansing sent the draft to i with the official opinion expressed i;
president Wilson Friday night. Me at,Berlin Friday that the German govern
f-st planned to see the President \es-|n.ent believes it lias gone as far as i
lerdav and discuss the draft with him. poshibly can to bring its viewpoint i
J ater however, the plans were changed, line with that of the I'nited States, an
and it was said last night that the Sec- that fount von Bernstorff had exercise
re'ary would not confer with the Pies- the limit of the authority conferre
Idenr until tomorrow, unless there upon him in drafting the proposal no\
should tie unforeseen development? P/?n.iii.*.ii ?
_____ _ i ^v.o.wviaiiun, aim wmcn yesier
Count von Rernstorff expects to bo day occupied the complete attention o
called to the State Department tomor- j official Washington.
i
MATHAlf POfflR PLANT OPERATION TO SAVE Lin
Conference on Amendment for Post- James F. Cogan Permits Transfusioi
poning Construction Is to Be 0f His Blood to His
Held Tomorrow. Wife's Veins.
The conference committee of the Sen- JameB F Co(5an thirty.two years ole
?te and House. handling the urgent 12;;s w 8trect southcast_ >e8terda
deficiency bill In which the Senate afternoon submitted to an operation I
placed an amendment prohibiting work an effort to Bave the j|fe of Ills wIM
of construction on the proposed new Mr? Myrtle Cogan. twenty-four yea'
government central heating and power ,
plan- on 14th street until after the old. who yesterday morning was foun
at<hi?e? : ural plants have Wen approved unconscious from, illuminating gal
by tl?4- arts commission and the The young woman was in an appar
President is expected to hold its first <.n?y dyjn(5 ,.omiitlor, aml when he
meet."!*, t. miorro husband visited her at Casualty Hos
.ass t.ilbert. a member of the fine , and wa? ,o|d lhat blood tranB
a. r. commission. has volunteered to ob- fuHioi, ?aB al,out the only ,hlne tha
tain for the committee information re- <ou)<1 ?ave hj? w.ife.B ,|fB readl)
garUing the position of the contractor cor,rented to undergo an operation,
in N.fv. ^ ork. to whom the contract jt was stated at the hospital that
for constructing the piant has been of Mrs. Cogan had consented t
awarded, as to what it will cost if the SUppiy the blood necessary to save th
construction work is up. patient s life, but when the huaban
Letters and telegrams or protest appeared the physicians concluded h
ags.ntt the erection of the central was belter able to stand the ordea
pW'-t ?? designed at present, with its and at 2;t0 o'clock Dr. Frederick 1
high smokestacks, continue to be re- Donn. member of the house staff, as
eeived by member* of the appropria- J > >.ted by Dr. Kdward A, Brown, anothe
t oiu committees of bo: U houses. They J member of the staff, performed th
come largely from architects and or- operation.
feciniAa* ions of architects Later in the afternoon Mrs. Cogan re
Senator New lands of Nevada, who, gained consciousness, and, the phy
acting upon information given him by sicians say. seemed to be on the road t
memberr of the flne arts commission, recovery. Mr. Cogan stood the opera
started the movement mi the Senate}'ion remarkably well, it Is stated, an
against i lie erection of the piant as at ( was able to leave the hospital fou
present designed, said last night that hours alter the operation was pe:
he hoped for success. j formed. t
4
iBsrrruTE
"ILLEGAL"
IS MAY PASS
1 MRS. MOHR FREED
AND TWO MEN ARE
! GIVEN LIFE TERMS
bui wire or siain Providence
Physician Still Faces Assault
Charge.
5 ?~ I
> ATTORNEY FOR BROWN
WILL TAKE AN APPEALj
i
Rhode Island Woman Swoons on
Hearing Verdict. But Soon Recovers
and Goes Home.
PROVIDENCE, R. I.. Februlary
5.? Mrs. Elizabeth F. Molir
was acquitted tonight by a jury
in the superior court of a charge |
of having instigated the murder |
of her husband. Dr. C". Franklin
Mohr. C. Victor P>rown and
Henry H. Spellman, negroes, who
were accused of the actual killing.
were found guilfy. The jury
reported at 6:07 o'clock, after
having been out since 10:50
o'clock this morning.
Mrs. Mohr swooned while the
fnrpman wac annniinrinnr 11, ? ??r_ I
- ? *> *" II
diets. Her head dropped forward
and she was slipping from
her chair, when her attorneys
grasped and supported her, while
a court officer rushed for a glass
of water. '
"Is there any other charge
against these defendants?" inquired
Justice Stearns.
? "There is, your honor," replied
Y Attorney General Rice, "but Mrs. (
e Mohr is on bail on the other
tharge."
? "The defendants Brown and
t Spellman are committed without 1
i. bail," said the court, "and Mrs.
* Mohr is discharged from custody
. on this complaint."
t
To Devote Life to Children.
Airs. Mohr marie a brief statement *
" after returning to her home tonight. *
t She said she had been confident from c
- the beginning thai no jury would ever
' i convict her. adding that Hie charge of "
| bringing about the death of the man
I who was the father of her children and
to whom she had always hoped to be. r
e come reconciled was the culmination of
a series of misfortunes which had 1
a clouded her life.
.? She expressed her appreciation of the j *
. "consideration shown her by the judge, j y
n the fairness of the jury, the kindness i _
- of her friends and the general sym- | ^
n j pathy of the pub!i? at large."' |..
1 "I am home a gam.-' she said, "with
f I my children and I hope to he allowed x
* I in peace to devote the rest of my life P
" to their welfare. c
s
e Faces Another Charge. ?
The other charge against Mrs. Mohr j
and the two negroes is that they comt
mitted an assault on Miss Emily Burn
ger, with intent to kill. Miss Burger
^ was shot while riding with Dr. Mohr g
rl on the night he was attacked. Brown c
v and Spellman are accused of actually <j
f firing the snots at Miss Burger, while t
Mrs. Mohr is chafg*d with being an *
_ accessory before the fact of the crime, t
The first word received from the jury ci
" after it took the case came at 5:25, t
when it was announced that further i
- instructions were desired. Half an
hour later the prisoners had been a
brought to the courtroom, but a deputy *
sherifT informed the judge that the 1
* jury had decided that the instructions e
asked for were not needed. t
I x
' Two Colored Men Convicted. 1
I I.ess than ten minutes elapsed when
word came that the jury was ready to
jt report. The jurymen looked tired and %
y worn as they passed into the court- x
n room. After each man had taken his *
place in the jury box the clerk asked 1
a the foreman: r
d H'Do you find the defendant, Cecil Vic- 8
j tor Brown, guilty or not guilty?" 1
As the foreman replied "Guilty," Mrs. ?
Mohr collapsed. While her counsel were j
r assisting her the clerk continued: ^
"Do you find the defendant Henry
- Spellman guilty or not guilty?"
t "Guilty." I
y
^ Acquittal Powerful Restorative.
o "Do you And the defendant, Elizabeth
? F. Mohr, guilty or not guilty?"
e "Not guilty."
1, Mrs. Mohr apparently was in a stupor
when the foreman pronounced the
!r words "not guilty." She recovered '
e quickly, however. Newspaper men be- J
gan to surround her, but were told by c
- her counsel, John J. Fitzgerald, that t
- she was not in any condition to talk.
o "The fight has only begun." was the 1
- comment of William H. Lewis, counsel <
d for Brown. Mr. Lewis has taken nuir
merous exceptions during the trial and
- sgid that .hp might carry the case to
the supreme court. '
i
1 U.
Mil ISSUE MAY
LAST THROUGH WAR
railure to Decide Case Likely
to Cause Officials Here to
Retain Custody.
CONFLICTING CLAIMS BY
WARRING NATIONS HEARD
J. S. Government Inclined to Hold
That Prussian Treaty of 1828
Governs Case.
The question of ownership of the
British steamship Appam. brought, into |
fampton roads by a German prize
rew, may remain an open issue until
he end of the war. with the ship
neantime held in the custody of Amerian
officials at Newport News.
Conflicting claims on behalf of Germany
and Kngland are being considerd
by the State Department and the
leutrality board, but there has been
10 indication of a decision. officials
fenerally are inclined to the viw, how- i
tver, that the case must be governed i
>y the Prussian treaty of 1828, which i
rrants Prussian prizes free entry to
Lmericari ports and declares that they
may freely be carried out again at any
irne by their captors- to the places exiressed
in their commissions.'' A literal
onstruction of that provision, which
oine officials favor, would permit the
tppam to remain indefinitely at Newport
Jews.
Not Construed Litexally.
That the treaty* has not been contrued
literally in initial consideration
>f the Appam case, however, is evilenced.
it is pointed out, by the facts
hat the ship was searched and that
ome form of legal process was served
?y the customs collector to procure
lischarere of the prisoners. Both of
hese things arc expressly prohibited
n article IS of the treaty.
Officials are inclined to believe that
. formal ruling by the department as
o whether the Prussian treaty or The
iague convention of 1907 should govrn
the case would not after all conIrm
title to the Appam. but simply
vould determine the length of her stay
n port.
Question. of Patrol.
The practical effect of a decision
vould be to determine the question of
vhether Great Britain would be put
o the trouble of maintaining indefinteiy
a warship patrol ofT the Chesa>ake
capes to prevent the escape of the
hip. Eventually a German prize court
nust pass upon the title, and even aftx
that the ultin^Lte disposition of the
Lppam, if she remains in port, doubtess
will depend upon the result of the
var.
:irst-Class Mail Brought
From West African Coast
to Be Shipped to Europe
NEWPORT NEWS. \ a., February 5.?
)ne hundred and fifty-thrqS bags of
Irst-class mall from the steamship
tppam. brought here by a German prize
rrew. this afternoon were forwarded
o Washington for shipment to Engand
and France. The mail is all from
ilties of the west coast of Africa. The
>arcel post carried by the Appam is
itill aboard the steamer, and according,
o customs authorities will remain
THE UNHELPIN'G HAND.
Suggests Women Shoot
"Feeble-Minded Jurors"
SAN KHAN CISCO. February r>.
?Shootinc of "nomr of our
feeble-minded jurymen'* wan j
Nnggested tod^L by Jodye Frank j
P. Dunne, wlten a jury In the ?u- |
perlor court freed Mm. Maleena i
Dyott, tried for the necond time j
for wounding her huoband, !
[ Samuel Dyott, In a quarrel.
Judge Dunne rrrognized among:
| the jurora aeveral who recently j
acquitted in hla court 31m. Mary !
I I'amias, charged with killing; |
Michael Wein stein, a crippled |
peddler, who ahe charged had
inaulted her. ^
If aome of thene feeble j
women who go around ahooting;
men would turn their weapona
upon aome of our feeble-minded
jurymen the world would be bet- J
ter off," he aaid, when he received j
the verdict.
there until the status of the steamer i
determined by the State Department.
Beferred to Washington.
Lieut. Berg: chafes while awaiting th
decision, although he 'says he realize
the question is one that cannot he de
cided iri a day. Today he asked for 20
tons of coal for port uses, and indicate*
that he desired to tie the Appam up a
a local pier until the State Departmen
renders its decision. Both request
were referred to Washington.
Lieut. Berg has assured the port au
thorities that the bombs aboard th
Appam are not a menace to navigation
It is reported on reliable authority tha
the bombs are nothing- more than han?
grenades.
Former Master of Appam
Declares German Captor
of Steamer Was Pongz
NEW YORK, February 5.?The Ger
man raider that captured the Britisl
steamship Appam was the J\>nga, according:
to Capt. If. G. Harrison, forinei
master of the Appam. who readier
here today from Norfolk on the steam
ship Hamilton. With Capt. liarrisor
were his officers and crew, numbering
150, who probably will be sent to Frig
land on the White Star liner Baltic.
Name of Raider in English,
Capt. Harrison said lie had no othei
recourse than to surrender when h<
discovered the warlike character 01
the ship that stopped him. When fh?
cruiser was less than two ship lengths
away he was ordered to board her witl
his deck officers and a number of his
men. The name of the raider, he declared,
appeared in English on the navigation
charts hanging: in the vessel's
pilot house and chart room, where he
was summoned by the commander.
Beady to Explode Bombs.
"When 1 was again placed on hoard
my ship I found it in full possession
of the Germans. Bombs had been
planted on the bridge, in the chart
house and in the engine room, and 1
was told that at the first sign of
trouble they would be exploded and
the ship sent to the bottom.
BHITAIN AWAITS U. S. ACTION.
Not Yet Ready to Make Statement
on Status of Appam.
LONDON, February 5.?The foreign
office announced today that dispatches
received from the British ambassadoi
at Washington show that the statu*
of the Appam has not yet been decided
by the American govern men t. On
this account the British officials art
not in a position to make a statement
on this subject.
*
. j
REFERENDUM VOTE~
ON LICENSE URGED
Federation of Citizens' Associations
Adopts Minority Report
on Prohibition.
ACTION TAKEN BY VOTE
OF 10 TO 9 AT MEETING
Discussion at Long Session Includes
Both Prohibition and Suffrage
Questions.
S
The Federation of Citizens' Associations,
at a meeting: held last night in
the rooms of the Chamber of Come
merce, indorsed the proposal for a refs
erendum vote by the residents of the
. District of Columbia, men and women
0 alike, to settle the question of prohibi(l
tion in the National Capital.
t This action was taken when, by a
t vote of 10 to 9. with the representative
s of cyie association not voting:, the
federation adopted a minority report
" j of its committee on finance arid legisla?
| tion on a resolution favoring such a
t j referendum vote which was submitted
d J by the delegate from the Brightwood
Park Citizens' Association at a pre-"
vious meeting. The minority report
I was signed by only one member of this
committee. Charles Shreve. its chairman.
It was adopted after a discussion
of nearly three hours, and not until
it had been twice amended.
The meeting of the federation was
1 one of the most interesting in its hisl
tory, according to opinions expressed
by some of the delegates. Almost
" every one present participated in the
l debate, which was not brought to a
close until about 11:30 o'clock.
j Points of Order Made.
By reason of the nature of the propoi
sition being considered the discussion
r included both suffrage and prohibition.
. Many points of order were made during
the discussion and President Colladay
was called upon to make several rulings.
After the debate ended and the
vote was called for an attempt was
> made to refer thfe whole question back
* to the constituent members of the federation.
The motion to pursue this
i course was defeated by a vote of 10
} to 9.
I Alter the federation had voted to
adopt amendments to the minority rei
I nort. which amendments were submit
ted by D. A. Edwards and President
Colladay, a vote by roll cafll on the
amended report was taken, this being
5 considered as a substitute to the
. majority report of the committee on
finance and legislation. The vote by
associations was as follows:
For adoption of report?Rrightwood
Park. Central, Chevy Chase, Connecti[
cut Avenue, Fast End Suburoan. Pincoin
Park. Mid-city, Southeast Washing1
ton, American Institute of Architects -*nd
i West End.
Against adoption, of tlie report?Anacostia,
Chillum Castle Heights, Citizens'
Northwest Suburban, Park View,
Petworth, Handle Highlands, Washing1
ton Civic, North Washington and Benning
and Kenilworth Association.
The delegate from the Rhode Island
Citizens' Association was present, buft
did not vote. The representatives of
five associations were absent. Among .
those not present was the delegate <
1 from the Pinehurst Citizens' Associa- i
tion, who had signed the majority re- 1
port.
Keport of Minority.
The minority report of the committee ^
on finance and legislation, which was i
signed and read by Charles Shreve, <
chairman of the committee, follows:
"The undersigned members of the '
committee on , finance .and legislation. ,
(Continued on Thirteenth Page.) l
. ; &.. v.
5,000 ARE I
WHEN LEVI
AT CLARE
Women and Childre
In Time and I
Reported
100,000 ACRES AR
IN THREE AD.
Trainload of Food, Clothing
Way From Little
of Red Cro
I 7
CLARENDON, Ark., Februar
Clarendon from the White river floi
Virtually the entire town was inun
In anticipation that the embank:
children had been removed to plai
among the 5,000 inhabitants was re]
In the three adjacent counties
under water.
Residents in Dire Peril. f
LITTLE ROCK, February 5.?Resi- ,
dents of the territory in th^ south- 1
eastern corner of Arkansas tonight j
faced a perilous situation. Two-thirds j
of Lincoln, Desha and Chicot counties
are covered with water, which is flow- '
ing southward through a half dozen |
breaks in Arkansas river levees. y
Arkansas City, McGehee and Lake Vll- T
lage and dozens of smaller towns are j
flooded and the high stage of the His- <
sissippi river added a new danger. At
Arkansas City the level of the Missis- .
sippi river is fifteen feet above the .
town. j j
So far all Mississippi river levees are
reported holding and the flood waters
inside the levees are certain to weaken ,
the mud at Arkansas City, where the i
stage of the Mississippi late today was J
fifty-fl^e and one-half feet, the high- ?
est ever known. Water from the :
Arkansas river flood is six to eight
feet deep in the main streets of *he
town and expected to go at least three
feet higher. About 1,000 residents have
left the city, which now is cut off from ,
communication with the outside world
except by boat. There are 500 home- 1
less and hungry persons in that town. <
A dispatch tonight said that the Chicot (
levee is in such a weakened condition
that should it break Arkansas City '
would be wiped off the map. The dis- i
patch said immediate aid is needed. j
A trainload of food and clothing,
purchased with funds appropriated by
the Red Cross and the private citizens,
was en route tonight to the flood- ]
stricken section of eastern Arkansas. \
The train left here rtite today in charge i
of Murray A. Auerbach, Red Cross rep- A
an/1 xk- i 11 nroPPpH flK far SS I
the tracks are intact. The remainder of f
the journej' will be made in a launch.
A dispatch tonight from Pine Bluff
reported the flood receding at Varner i
and Gould, which were inundated with
the first rush of water through the 5
crevasse in the Arkansas river at ('um- '
mins. At Pine Bluff schools will re- f
open Monday.
Conditions Better at Newport. ^
Newport reported the overflow subsiding
and normal conditions being restored.
Newport was flooded several
days ago when the White river levee
there collapsed. More than half of the j
business district was free of water to-i t
night and train service has been re-jS
sumed. At Batesville, north of New- n
port, the White river was falling rap- A
idly.
.John T. Burkett, chairman of the 1
state penitentiary board, returned to- C
day from the state farm at Cummins. v
He reported more than two miles of
the Arkansas river levee at Cummins ?
tC^hed away. One break in front of f
the state farm was a mile and a half
wide. One stockade, the main hospital p
and the administration and commis- s
sary buildings were wrecked.
100,000 Acres Inundated. n
ARKANSAS CITY. Ark.. February S. b
?Southeastern Arkansas tonight is in- p
gulfed in one of the mightiest floods in P
the history of the state, which hourly
is swelling to greater proportions and
adding to its toll. Approximately 100.000
acres of fertile farm land is inundated.
a score or more villages have
disappeared in the overflow and sev
eral of the larger towns are threatened A
with destruction. a
The situation here and at Clarendon,
McGehee and Lake Village, already 01
flooded by "back water" and menaced ft
by rapidly weakening levees which pro- sj
tect the towns from tl\e rush of the j
water, is critical. Merchants and j
planters worked tonight with levee J t?
workers and farm hands in a final effort
to hold the embankments, but the
odds seemed against them. ai
North of Arkansas City, Chicot lake, it
which has served as a reserver for a M
volume of water, threatens to break c?
through the dike which protects this 8i
city. Should the em Dan k meat give way ti
it is feared Arkansas City will be t|
wrecked. Back water, which entered
I he city yesterday, tonight covered the i
business section to a depth of six feet,
and in the residential district only the
tops of houses are showing above the .
water. *'
Scant Supply of Food. oj
l.leht aod water plants are out of
commission, and with hundreds of p,
refugees here and only a scant supply ti
of food available outside aid must come
quickly. All railroad service has been tfi
discontinued, and the only means of ri
communication is by boat. I se
At Clarendon every man who remained oi
n the town was at work tonight topping fe
White river levee with sand bags. The oi
vater early tonight was within a few ti
inches of the top of the embankment as r!
i result of a four-foot rise in the river s?
luring the day. oi
Lake Village, with the exception of a w
jarrow . elevation on the'west bank of hf
Lake Chivot, is covered with back water. Oi
rhich is rising rapidly. Lake Village be
eported three-fourths of Chicot county g<
*r
aafrSiiglate:.
IOMELESS
!E BREAKS
iNDON, ARK.
n Reach Highlands
No Lives Are
Lost Yet.
EINUNDATED
IACENT COUNTIES
and Other Supplies Is on
Rock in Charge
iss Agent
y 5.?The levee which protected
od collapsed at .10 o'clock tonight,
dated within several hours,
ment would give way, women and
ces of safety, and no loss of life
ported.
3 of Arkansas 100,000 acres are
^undated, the water reaching from ths
northern to the southern extremity of the
'ounty and extending fourteen miles In
width. Several thousand refugees and
ill of the live stock that could be driven
>efore the flood are gathered on the highands
and in need of food.
All of the levees along the Mississippi
Jver were holding tonight, and, while engineers
declared none was immediately
endangered, fear was expressed that the
water backing up against the embanknents
of the main waterway from breaks
n the Arkansas and White rtmrrn nl^k
:ause them to weaken.
j ul miosiioaip)H river iw-'hwi a. ma|*
>f 55.5 feet here lat* toflsy. and la *jected
to reach a stage of llfty-seven feet
xefore the crest is reached, establishing
i new high-water mark.
A boat which reached Helena tonight
with 100 refugees from points along the
Mississippi river reported groups of
legroes encamped at a number of points
i long the levee. Those brought to Helena
were taken from corti cribs and lofts.
Water Rising at Hatches.
NATCHEZ. Miss.. February 5.?The
vicinity of Fort Adams, on the Mississippi
river, where Gen. Grant crossed
jn his way to Vicksburg, has been deserted
by its inhabitants on account of
ligh water. The birthplace and forner
home of Jefferson Da\*is, near
lere. is also in the path of the flood
waters of the Mississippi river. The
N'atchez City water works plant has
been cut off from the mainland and is
now an island in the river. Unless the
water rises four feet, however, the
water supply of the city will be safe. ,
A tugboat and quarter boat have been
sent to Fairview. La., to remove 1(m)
negro convicts to a point six miles
above St. Joseph, La.
Local business establishments which
are located on low land near the river
lave moved their stocks to higher
ground.
Iffiniaf Ronnpfe Inrlienfn
uvpvi 10 iiiuiuqic
Trouble Will Be Serious
if Levees Are Not Watched '
Official War Department ,reports yeaerday
on ttie Mississippi valley flood
ituation indicated that serious trouble
lay result in the region south of the
Arkansas river unless the residents
here assist in strengthening the levees.
>ne of the most serious difficulties, it
t*as said, was the scarcity of labor,
nd there were intimations that the
ederal officers would be authorized to
rovide rations only for those who
howed a disposition to assist them.
A report from the chief engineer ofcer
at Vtcksburg, Miss., said the levees
fere being subjected to a severe test,
ut that there was an excellent prosect
that they would hold if the whits
opulation put up a proper fight.
Offers Aid to Sufferers.
The dispatch added:
"Can give employment and subsistnce
to all persons in flooded parts of
rkansas. Have already offered such
ssistance and am extending further
ffers. At present am having to pay
mcy prices for labor to hold commiaon
levees on Arkansas river."
Another dispatch, from Memphis, yestrday.
said:
"Cairo crested last night at fifty-three
nd four-ienths and shows fall this
lorning (Saturday) of one-tenth. I'pper
[lssissippi and entire Ohio falling, exant
at PnHiu-ah whlnh ahnnl/i ? ?? -
tand today. Cairo gauffe should oonnue
to fall. Weather conditions
iroughout drainage basins suggest no
robabilitv of any resumption of rainill
in a number of days.
"Reports from levees throughout thess
stricts are uniformly most favorable
id suggest no probability of tnreak or
rerflow. Lower White river district is.
' course, covered with backwater. As *
> this backwater situation, relief
easures are understood to be iu
rogress and to be satisfactorily effecve.
"T am in receipt of the following tele*
ram from planter of standing in Whits
ver district, which is indicative of the
ntiment of substantial representatives
' the community: The representative
irmers of tliis country are unalterably
iposed to any plan providing free raons
or tents for refugees at Helena, as
1 are capable of taking care of them*
Ives or their tenants. Government aid
lly serves to demoralize labor now
orking on levees and make difficult to
sndle the labor after water goes down. .
ur chief interest is in holding the
vees and not in selling supplies to ths
)vernment.' "
