ALBU QUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
l lliwn -SKVIATII YluAU.
t X1.I X. .No, 37.
SIXTEEN PAGES
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO.SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1916,
SIXTEEN PAGES
1'alljr by Carrier or Mall, 6(nj
a Month. Single (Vtplca, to
L
AUGHLIN named
AS CHAIRMAN BY
THE DEMOCRATS
OF NEW MEXICO
Unexpected Happens, as
Usually Does When
Unterrified Get Tog
and1 Talk Things Over,
the
THE WEATHER
WE.vnircu foiuecast.
Denver, Feb. &. N'ev Mexico: Sun
day and Monday gem rally fair; cool
er southeast portion Sunday.
LOCAL H'ttYTlIKK KF.I'OUT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
S p. ni. yesterday":
Maximum temperature, 45 ilfsrpm;
minimum, 1!U degree; runge, -'2 de
grees; temperature in ti ji. ni., 43 de
grees; southwest wind; partly cloudy.
CITY IJ.WK CI.IUIUXGS.
Yesterday
? h a , a 7 a . i :j .
CleiiringH for the
?S15,4S4.93
Week.
MRS. MQHR
P
RED
I
WO NEGROES ARE
FOUND GUILTY,
JURY
REPORTS
DRIVE AGAINST
SALON Kl
COMMENCED BY
WE SHOULD WORRY' IS
REPUBLICAN ATTITUDE
Members From Northern and-;;
Eastern New Mexico More m
Bent on Defeating Walton
Than Electing -Anybody Else
sort of a needol ok thai are reniitiispeni
Together of li'll-billies of the ozarks, made
no secret of the fact that lie was aguiusi
Walton because Wulton was a frieiul
of Jim iMinklc, and that he was just
uturally "again" Jim lllnkle. Mr. liil
liert led the movement against Walton
among tin; Pceoa valley committee
men. Some aniii-ement was caused on the
final roll-call whi n a I allot for both
and Lniiglilin was called Ann) hpi
us at lirst supposed that
ere had been a mistake, but Judge
Grantham, of Kddy county, who be
sides u vole of his own In the com
mittee held a proxy, explained that he
had never met either .Mr. Walton or
Judge Laughlin, and, being strictly
neutral, he had cast one vote for each
of them.
The Committee resolved itself into a
Woman Charged With Con
spiracy to Murder Her Hus
band Collapses When Ver
dict Is Misunderstood,
RELEASE FOLLOWS
TRIAL OF ONE MONTH
TEUTON ALLIES
Heavy Artillery Duel Is in
Progress Between British
and Germanic Forces at
Doiran on Greek Border,
FRENCH BOMBARDMENT
GROWS IN INTENSITY
9PICIAL DISPATCH to MORNING JOURNAL
Santa Fe, Feb. 5. It would hardly
i... neriiriite tn kiiv that the unexpected
i,n,.n..fl in the election today of committee this morning for the pur
Judge N. 1!. Laughlin us chairman of
the democratic state central commit
tee. The unexpected almost always
i,ni.i,i.nu tn ilmiiricrjttli1 meetings con-
. ...,(i ii i- i,u ..viiei ti il This a o-callod "straw ballot" was taken
may seem to be arguing in a circle,
but that's the way democrats usually
Indictment, Alleging' No Simis of Austrian-Italian
Assault With Intent to Kill! Deadlock Being Broken;
Munitions Plant
fs Destroyed at
Jardim, Canada
.my MO R NINO JOURNAL DPKCIAI. I CSf AI
Ottawa, out., Feb. i.. --A report that
the J. inline munitions fa, lory at Mi's
peler, Waterloo county, Onlarlo. has
been blown up, has been received b
the military depart nienl. A reiiuest
has been made to have ordered out an
ovorsens regiment stationed in the;
neighborhood. '
llespeb i Is situated in a remote ,
part of Waterloo county and the ml- '
litiu department has be, n unable thusj
far to obtain details ia yarding the re-;
ported explosion. The town is tweUe.
miles southwest of r.ci'lin, which 1st
sixty-two miles wc-l of Toronto. Tliej
population is about ,,,nn() and thcr
are several factories In the place.
GERMANY IS EXPECTED 10
DISAVOW INTENTION TOKILL
IEIAIS ON LUSITANIA;
BALKS AT WORD ILLEGAL'
Miss Burger, Likely to Be
Dismissed,
pose of finding out what It wanted to
do and reporting buck to itself in a
committee what it had decided upon.
At the suggestion of Judge K. V. Long,
RV MORNINO J&URNAL IRICIAL LIARfcD WIRB)
Providence, It. 1 Feb. r,.---Mrs.
Elizabeth F. Mohr was admitted to
night by a Jury in the superior court
of a charge of having instigated the
murder ot her husband, Dr. t". Frank-
Turks Rcpoii Another Vic
tory Near Kut-el-Amara,
(V MORNINQ JOUHNAL PliCI AL LtAICO Wl.ltl
Tho lung looked for offensive of Uic
Teutonic allies against Sulouiki may
now he on or near at hand. An
agency dispatch from .Saloniki re
ports that an artillery duel has been
argue.
The genius for disorganization that
has t hurncterized the democratic par
ty from the time of Thomas Jefferson
to the time of William Jennings Bry
an was never more strikingly mani
fested than at the meeting of the com
mittee which took tip two days 01 me,
time of a number of responsible bust-1
licss men here in Santa Fc. There!
were three logical candidates for the
( hnirmnnship of the committee. Theyj
were Arthur Sellgman, of Santa Fc, I
C. 11. Kohlhauscii, of Katon, and W. j
'!. Walton, of Silver City, of all the j
potential candidates for the position,
theso three wore only ones that
had ever shown any ability as or-j
pacity for leadership.
Mr. Sellgman and Dr. Kohlhau'-en
eliminated themselves from the race
at an early hour. Both declared that
under no circumstances could the
honor be thrust upon (hem. Mr. Wal
ton, absenting himself from the meet-
J.vw. of ie t")ii,, .'lUee, staged thaf Jut.
was not a candidate but that he would J
accept the responsibility if the com-j
mittee saw fit to place it upon bun
llee-liaw!
Then the large, furry ear
itself into the picture.
not binding upon anybody, in which
the members of the committee ex
pressed themselves as to their first,
second und third choice. The result
(t unlliiiiril un rage 'I mo.)
lin Mohr. ('. Victor itrown and lien- in progress fur two days near Doiran,
ry 10. Spcllman, negroes, who were where strong force of the ccntrul
uceuscd of the actual killing, were powers for sometime have been Xae
found guilty. The Jury reported at lug the positions of the entente allies.
6:07 o'clock after having been out Such u bombardment might well he
since 10:30 o'clock this morning. the prelude to un advance movement
Mrs. Mohr swooned while the fore- by the Teutons and their allies, which,
man was announcing the verdicts, according to recent reports from the
73 SUITS STARTED
AGAINST RAILROADS
, RV MG K NI NO JOURNAL iPlXIAL lCAEO WlR
St. Jo-cph, .Mo., Feb. ,"i. Seventy,
three suits against railroads were in
stituted In the circuit court lure ln
day alleging violation of the maximum
freight rate statute. Sixl.t-hlne of the
cases nre against the t hbago, Bur-,
llngton and tjuincy, three against the!
Chicago, Itock Island and I'neifie, and'
one against the Atchison, Topeka and!
i Santa Fe. There ale nine hundred'
'separate counts.
The total or the chums is Ji;,.,(iiHi.
The thirty-six hundred plaintiffs are
composed of farmers, livestock ship-'
pcrs and commission merchants of'
northwest .Missouri, ;
The petitions allege that the plain
tiffs were overcharged on livestock'
shipments pending an appeal by rail-'
roads to the 1 'nited Stales nuprcinej
court, which held the law to be Valid I
und that the amount of the over-!
charges never was returned. I
BERNST0RFF OPTIMISTIC THAT
CRISIS WILL PASS WITHOUT
BREAKING OFF RELATIONS
Communication From Germany to Be Sent in Which All
Contentions of United States Are Met Except Decla
ration That Submarine Commander Exceeded His Au
thority and Is, Therefore, Repudiated by His Govern
ment; President Wilson and Secretary Lansing to Con
fer Monday for Final Draft of What Washington Will
Regard as Ultimate Position to Be Assumed Regarding
Activities of Teutonic Submarines During War.
I T SLAVERY
CHARGE AGAINST
EMMETT GOODIN
(Her head dropped forward and she
: was slipping from her i halr when her
. attorneys grasped mij supported her,
! while a court officer rushed for a1
'glass of water. I
j "Is tin re any other charge against
(these defendants?" inquired Justice
-Stearns; !
j "There is, your honor," replied jU
torney (ieneral Bice, "but Mrs. Mohr
is on bail on the other charge." !
Balkans, was set for about the middle
of the present month, but which nmy
even now be In progress.
According' to the message through
entente sources report lug the opening
of the bombardment, the I'.riti.-O:
heavy guns Were doininal lug those of
the Germans and Bulgarians oppnsud
to them.
Artillery I .iigngoiiicni-t.
Klsewhere along the many lighting
'The defendants lirown and Spell- fields of I he widespread war field, few
Oklahoma Man Accused of
Murder, Released and Im
mediately Re-arrested
man are committed without bail, snul
the court and Mrs. Mohr is discharged
from custody on this complaint."
Another t'lmrgei Remains.
The other charge against Mrs. Mohr
and the two negroes is that they com
mitted an assault on Miss Kmlly l'.ur-
fnr Kl'r with intent to kill. Miss Burger
was shot while ridinir with Dr. Mohr
Alleged Mann Act Violation, ;" ht- attacked. iwn
.- and Sticllmun are accused of uctimlly
: ril-ini lh.. ub,,lo i,l Alls; I'lii-i .,r uliil,. south of
SPECIAL DISPATCH TO MORNINO JOURNAL) jMt'M. Molll- is clialgl'd W'itll ticlllg till
Uoswcll, X. M Feb. G. Fmniett uceo.s.sory before the fact of the. crime.
itioodin was released this afternoon i The first word received from the
ion the charge of murder and was im- jury after It took the case came at
l"l,'u"" lneilintelv arrested bv ITnitPil Slates r.-vr. ulw..i
U aiiuu, i" imihorities, on the c larire of W hite rnrlhi.r
it was announced that
instructions were desired.
on
only avuiuiuie man mi me i"'"" -'-, slavery. Uoodin w as charged wnn ,Ha!f an hour later the prisoners had
and the only man who had ever exhib-; kmnK n j iJurieKUI1 the plains been brought to the court room, but
ited any ability as a vote-producer, , (,llst of iel.e 1Kt Si,tu,.(iay night. After u Ociuty sheriff informed the judge
was willing to accept the position, i hi(i preliminary hearing today Judge Um Uu, jllst,.UL.tionK sklHi fl. w,.r(,!
t'cr.seipjently, Wa'uou must be de-jWe!((.r follnj tlm t it was Justifiable llot llt.,.( ,,(1 j
feated. . .homicide. j r-ess than ten minutes claused when!
until late last night, I Fro( .;. Dennis of the I'nited States I. ,.... ,hll ,.... ... ,j
operutiiins (,f ltiipoitance hae been
recorded. On vhe Franco-llclglan
front, the French artillery continues
its activity, the bombardment being in
tense In the Champagne and the Ar
gonnc. Berlin reports uses of spo
radic activity by Infantry, one Instance
being south of La Ihusec canlil, where
the British are declared to have been
repulsed when one of their detach
ments att(i!pic! to. advance, whilf
the Somme, w here the C.i r-
mans made gains only recently, the
French were I eaten off In a hand gre
nade attack, ill the Vosges the (!tr
man guns have been bombarding
French posit inns. j
Few reports of pronounced activity :
come from llussla or (lalieia, (air
man airship attack on Dvlnsk being
the only incident in this war theater
mentioned in the C.ermun communi-:
cution.
WALTER NELSON
SUICIDES; T
OP ILL HEALTH
, (By Morninij Journal Special Leased Wiie.)
I VA ashiugtMl, Feb. fi.-For the word
i "illegal" which tlermnny was unwlll-
ing to Incorpornte in the tentative
; draft of the l.usllanla agreeiiient, the
Berlin foreign office has substituted
n phrase which certain hll'.h authorl
, ties In a position to be familiar with
I the status of the liecollatlous colisld-
er
! 1'
of
rlneiples Involv d
siiliinarlne war-
Well Known Cigar Man, For
mer Resident of Albuquer
que, Takes Own Life in Sil
ver City.
covers all th
i In the question
fare,
The language subtitll ute, ',n- the
objerlional word "Illegal" In a tenia
the communication now being con
sidered by President Wilson uvets
that the killing ol Americans in the
I l.n.-llRnla. ,master was without in
ttenl, because the distinction of the
. t'unard liner was uu act of reprisal
and the iJermaii government agree
that reprisals should not be applied
to in ut nils.
From Mtrlous diplomatic and offi
cial quarters tonight nine the Infor.
million that the out holt J promising
tor hp vulv..cl!oU'.4l. H W In-4
the wanton net of Its nnval comman
der in sinking Ihe I.itsltaiiia,"
It imis asserted loilny that the stat
deiiartineiit had shown a completo
readiness to fall hi line with tier
maiiy's ideas so far us it e,uild With
oul sail If Icing the main issues Involved.
' (litinnn officials here are in
cord with the official opinion
pressed In Berlin yesterday that
llciniiin government believes it
gone as far as it possibly can
bring its viewpoint in line vvlth
no-ix-t
hi
ll a
to
that
of Hie United States and that Count
von Bernstorff has exercised the Um
It of ihe iiutliority ' conferred upon
him lu drafting the proposul now un
der eoii;ilili)atnn and , which today
occupied tho complete attention of
official Washington,
Italian-Austrian I.lncs,
It was not until late last tugni,, f-red Dennis of the I'nited States i.vo.. ,,,.., u. ,,at tl ic inrv w asreadvtol Along the lines where the AiisUians
when Senator Isaac I'.arth and Jose i ,t.cl.pt service was present at the hear-1 i-epuct. The Jurymen looked tired and 111,(1 Italians are engaged in the dcud
D. Sena und Judge U, H. Hunna and ; .,lu immediately after the court wol n nA ,i1(,y ,.',y.,., ),,(,, tu. court i'ock shows no signs ol' being broken,
numerous other prominent citizens announced Its finding arrested fkiodin, j ,,)01n Arter each man had taken his!11'1'"""1 'cporls declare the Italians
were paying tribute to Assistant Sec- ( harsing him w ith violating the Mum: ! ,,i)tC(. j,v the jury box the clerk asked (" '' wo,' "ul 1111,1 discouraged by their
relary of the Interior A. A. Jones with! white slave law. Witnesses testified f(),.,.ln.ul: " j failure to advance and have recog-
a smoker at the Montezuma hotel that, that they were asked by lioudin to j Mohr (o hincs nlv.mi the liniinssibillty of breaking
the movement against Wulton took ' come to the wagon at night. It seems! ' ' ' Allsl,il1" Hues, Xo ludicaliotis of
definite shape. The newspaper men that Mr. and Mrs. (ioodln were mar-; lnl yon find the defendant. tV( " i lagging Italian activity, however, are
had been running around trying to rled in Oklahoma about four months i 1-'r Brown, guilty or not guilty." ! , t rU.tjt . m! in Hi- official records,
find out what was goin to happen, but ago and that since that time tli-y have As the foreman rep hod: ' (.ullty, j From Mesopolumhi the Turks re-
had had no success whatever lvir.ineen traveling ia a coven.i w.mh,i ....... prt drlvnu; ''tick tlm British to their
. u h.l 1,. taklmr Kiiendin the ureater part of the time coumbvi ,ai, assisting m i, uic cicir
thine as It. turned out, entirely too , in Xcw .Mexico.
SPKCIAL DIKPAICH TO MURNINlB JOURNAL!
Silver City, X. M Feb. 5, Walter
Nelson, manager of the New Mexico I
Cigar company and one of the best,
known business men of this city, shot!
and mortally wounded himself at hlsj
place of business this morning, dying;
at a. local hospital this afternoon. Ilcj
tired a bullet from an uuloniatic pis-j
tol through his bralu. Acme mil, in-
I'liolia lYnii, vi lli, b tie .!. n i..,U,.l
I ' " :
isuflcrcr, Is the only known cause fori
the rash act. since bis affairs were ln
excellent shape. On Ihe body was,
found a note reading: "Notify my;
brother. M. J. Nelson, Buffalo, oklu."
The note was written on the back of!
envelope and bore the date of i
(Heated that ill'
lb nienl, which
ceptable to tb
be cmbodleil l
latlon from
nearer the
fetates than
telttalUe fol Ul of I
should It prove ac
I'niled Slate;.', Will
a formal' eolilmunl
rnian.v, approaches
desiles of the l liited
any Net submitted with
GERMANS INDIGNANT "
OVER TRAWLER'S ACTION
easy.
Along about 2 o'clock this morning
word went out that there was a well
defined movement to beat Walton.
For the first time the names of J. H.
Crist and Judge N. B. Baughlin were
mentioned. It became apparent at
once that there was to oe a ngin aiuus
lines thai bad not been expected. Mr.
federal officeholder, was not j ' "
for the chairmanship. 1 "
..Innee IICIIUIIOII Oil UIC
Maud C.oodin
I and claims to be
the defendant, Henry
or not guilty'.'"
Mrs. Mohr
counsel was
They were here about conuiiuco:
I four months ago and went west. They i '''ii ou una
Uver i their way cast, again and ' Spellma n, guilty
! camped on the I'nderw ood ram ll east I "C uilly."
(if here last Saturday night. Three of j "l-id you find the defendant, ICIiza
ithe men employed on the ranch tes-, bcth F. Mohr, guilty or not guilty?"
Uified that lioodin Invited them tof ' Not guilty."
! visit them. ' ' Jlrs- Mol"' apparently was in a stil
ls pretty, child-like ; por when lb,; loreiri in pronounced the
111 years old. Goodin j w ords "not guilty." .she recovered
who
part
stalking-' I'arently possess sufficient evidence tojthut she was not in any condition to
make an open and shut case against
him.
Crist,
really e'.it.lblo
The wise ones recognized at
that he was being used as a
horse for Judge Laughlin. and that
Judge Lausrhlin. an unliable, elderly
gentleman of unimpeachable charac-, . ppiQIO IM
ter, was being used for the sole -pur- OADllNL I UnlOlO I IN
pose of beating "Billy" Wulton. j LUXEMBURG DUCHY
The l.lne-iip. '
It was a curious line-up that
brought about the election of Judge
'tuickly, however.
Newspaper men
testified of so-, began to surround her, but were told
of Coodin ap-by her counsel, John J. Fitzgerald,
l.aughlin. J. II. Crist und Adolph P.
Hill worked like beavers to bring
northern New .Mexico into line for
l.uughlin and succeeded. Just why-
talk
"Tho fight has only begun," was
Ihe comment of William II. Lewis,
counsel for Brown. .Mr, Lewis has
taken numerous exceptions during the
trial and said that he might carry thei
jcase to the supreme court.
V MORNINO JOURNAL RPICIAL HAilD WIRI AttOrilf.V (iCIllTal 1 1 ICC declined to I
Berlin, Feb. 5 (via London, 1 0 . "id j ,.,), ent on the verdict. He would I
p. m.) The cabinet crisis in the,not say when the other charge!
Duchy of Luxemburg appears to huvu.aguinst Mrs. Mohr would be tried, If j
assumed a more hopeless aspect than.at all. i
i former positions by n counter-attack
j when General Aylmer's relief force at
j tempted a nearer approach to Kul-el-
I Allium, where another British force Is
! belt figured. I
j It is announced In Vienna, that'
peace negotiations with the Montenc-;
grin cabinet ministers remaining in!
their country have not been begun by I
tho Austrlans and will not be started!
until the ministers are furnished with
Mininipeiieliable credentials cmpowcr
jing them to conclude a peace that will
he binding.
j The advance of the Audriaiis duw n
I the Albanian coast continues.
It evidently was written Just be
lle shot himself. The deceased
la years old and unmarried, he-
l life member of the local Kills
llo also belonged to
die, formerly lived in Albu
coming here (.several years
was an active member of the
of commerce and a vestry-
P.VKIS
III I
OF
OUTS Tl I.I,
AIETII M'ltV
HATH, I S !
ever. M. Vaiineutus, to whom the
The Day in Congress
;xn
Not in session; meets Monday. ;
Judiciary sub-committee decided to j
hold open hearings on supreme court
nomination of Louis V. Brandeis.
Public lunds committee heard west-j
ern men of ClO-ucrc grazing home-1
ttud bill. !
Trial on hlnce .laniiarj Id. ;
n't,,, ,.i,.l r. ,..,,,,... Ill l,..i
to form ii new cabinet, has a.,nuonco!jll ffia(1 uKlhl.,. u lh;ll
his efforts, having found It impossible
i harmonize the conf Mcling l;""1'ihoI,lcs for n. flr.st ,,, ln f(JU,.l
for organizing a coamion ihh"ij.
The democratic wing of the liberal
party demanded a seal in tne mu.ma . ,,,, v,,,..,,,,,., ,,, ... t
i but was rejected. This latter develop- jly 'o( (hj tvcllB J
cmbarrasslm.' nosltion and it is mi-p. ... ..... ... .. , , ... I
" . , .,, : JlULOfllOIJIIi;
n i.. ......a;,., ,i-li,,i i:t,i k i, u ill r
i""" 'o F""" - - jrington.
jiiow take. George V. Healis, tlie negro chauf-
JallU-' nmue u iuiui;.-wiuii ii, ii,en oe
alleged airs. Moiir nuu agreed to pay
Ibey did it is a , matter that Is locked Rrm Uuehess extended an invitation
within their own breasts. J.. C. Gil
bert, a member from Chaves, who
i-howed exceptional skill in the great
indoor sport of hitting a cuspidore
plump in tho middle ut ten yards dis
tance and who was replete with the
weeks after being paid off tonight.
I Lir. Mohr, a physician, practicing
was shot fa-
August HI,'
IJ915, as he was sitting in his stalled
in a lonely spot In
Paris, Fell. ." (via. London, 11:47 p.
m.) The following official commun
ication Was issued by the war office
tonight:
"Between Koissons and Kheiius our
artillery shelled the bridgehead at
Venimyei and the enemy works at
VendrcusH and Cernuy. A column on
Ihe march was taken under our fire,
to the east of Kalut Kimplet.
"In Champagne our batteries dam
uged the organizations on the pla
teau of Navarin. .
"Between the Aisne and the
no there was a bombardment
enemy shelters and trenches
north of H. Thomas. At
authority of Berlin oflliials,
llci'iisloi'lf Is Optimistic.
.Secretary Lansing ami Count vmi
Benislorl'f, tin- German aiubassaibir,
met ,iiite informally In the Metropol
itan club here todaj. They talked
for a short, time, Although It was
not disclosed 1 1 , h ' what was said,
there was no Intiinallon that the
ambassador had been Informed (lint
he niluhl have lu communicate with
jhls giHcrnmenl on the subject again.
In fact, the ambassador seemed cx-
i traordlnarlly opllinistlc at the con-1
elusion of Ihe talk. ,
I i ue cardinal piums oi mo leniaine
I'1''. f I..,,..,,,, i. , ..I.I i, liii.il
j IOI (ll Ol 1,IM ,0, IO '-!.- r,,,i.,-.. ...
I night. The agreement Is prefaced
j with the statement that submarine
! warfare in the North sen was luatigu
I rated by Germany in retaliation for
what she regarded us Hie "Illegal"
i British blockade under the orders In
i council. It then states that the
method of conducting submarine
(Warfare in the Ninth sea has In ( n
modified ol) account of (lie friend-j
jshlp Germany has for ll"' Fulled
I Wales und because of the t'ui t that i
lAnieriean lives have been lost. G''''
; many says thai the killing of Anieri
;Ctnis was no, intended, because re-
; prisnls should not be applied to lieu- ;
jtrals, in adililioii to expressing regret,
j for Ihe lues of A ineriean lives, as-
i Klines Nubility and offers reparation j
APPAMGR0UNDLESS; ;TTL ,, cut!
1 cxiircsscN the readmits of Germany
lo eo-operale Willi Un- I'nited States I
ill .-, ell'oit loolilllg touaid Hie free.
(loin of the se.is. I
onference oM Moiidi,. i
Siei relary l.aiislnc, sent the d'.lfl
to President ilsmi last nig'nl. He I
a 11
111.
fore
was
ing
lodge.
Moose.
i,iierijiic,
ago. II,
chil lllbel-
man In the Church of the Good .shep
herd, Kpiseopul. The body will be
sent to Oklahoma for burial, the Kilts
having cluirve of the fuiu nil. A cor
oners Jury held an impicst this after
noon, returning a verdict of suicide.
(r V&RNINt .IPURNAI. eMCIAl LIAHtO vmii ,
Loiuh u, I eh. (T;S9 , in.)
According to Berlin telegrams trans-1
milted by lieuter's correpomlent t
Amstciilaui the attitude of the crew of
the Hauler King .Slrpheii toward the
crew- of Hie wrecked Z ppelin L-H)
has raised a p-torin of Ilidignntloll in
the Berlin press, which describes the
case us a worthy counterpart of tho
Jura long incident.
"This fresh Infamous action," says
I lie Lokal Anzeiger, "dlsclosea thu
brutality of the British charncter
which 'wo barbarians' did not know."
The Vosdsehe Zcltnug says:
"l'! i l.y one who has still preserved
an impartial Judgment will agree (hat
the King Stephen uffulr Is a stain on
the shield of BrUanla."
I liloiiL'o I milker Critically III.
' Los Angeles, allf., Fch. 5. Georgo
,M. Ileynolds, the Chl'-ugo bunker, who
Ihus 1'cen critically ill at. a hotel hero
since early yesterday morning', was re
portod to bo greatly Improved late to
day, but his physicians said, he wua
nol out of danger.
DEMOCRATS TO
Nelson was well known III Albu
querque, where ho was for some lime
.local manager for I be New Mexico CI
jgar company, lie was well liked In re
and news of his death came as a
'shock to his friend,.-.
! BRITISH CLAIM FOR
PRESS TARIFF
IEI
BOARD MEASURE
Argoii
ol the
to th"
Haute
north-
the
land not that of
(shall bo fitpreme law
uorsi:.
Met at noun.
Itesumed debate on Indian ap
propriation hill.
lhigadicr General Gotthals contin
ued hiji testimony on Panama canal
needs before appropriations commit
tee. Ways and means committee
democrats formally ( hose Bepr'T I which may he
seritativf Humnhrevs of Mi.stssip- closer to a plat.
Pi as chairman of the new house
ommiifce on flood control and select
ed the ommittpe personnel.
Announcement was made on
ary )4 that the Luxemburg cabinet,
headed bv Dr. Loutsch, had resigned.
Dr. Loutsch became president of the
'Luxemburg government last November
jafter the resignation of the Kyschen
I cabinet.
! VUceiit dispatches have reported
that democratic societies had
mid
him, Brown and Spellman, $5, OHO, If
jthey would murder her husband.
The police also claimed that the
)thcr two negroes made confessions
which were subsequently repudiated.
Healis pleaded guilty to munsluughter
rt jam! became a. witness for the state.
ll- an, Mik Mn 11- had
for two years as a
at.. i ihi.t th.. will of (he oeoulei
tlm .riml ,1 net, ,SS 1 '" "
Of Luxemburg. 'll""" ,s giuwins ""i " " mirsi-u ai-
" " 'tentlonH to Miss Burger and other
women. Separation suits Were pend-
' v m p-h r. Tw Kl,.ns.i ""'l l"e siaie ciaimea mat Airs.
Mohr sought her husband's death for
revenge and to obtain hU estate. The
Bar-1 ChevuiK bee we occupied tin
I ern rim of h crater caused by
explosion of a German mine.
"In loiralne ur artillery was
live in (he region of Colucourt
Domevre.
"About ll:!!W o'( lock this morning
Kcrgeant Pilot Guynemi r engaged in
combat an enemy aeroplane ln the
legli n of l'i ise and drove il to earth
in flames between Asseveillers , and
Herbeeoiut. This Is the filth hos-
been living i tile niacliim I'roiighl doun by Ser
result of f.'eani Gt seiner."
IRV MORNINO JOURNAL RPtCIAL LKARCQ WRI ,
Berlin, Feb. & (by Wireless to Sal--villc.
I The Cologne Gazette, discuss-1
ing Great Britain's claim lo the Ap
pam on the ground lha( the terms of;
the thirteenth convention of the 11107!
conference at The Hague annul those!
of the treaty between the Fulled!
Slates and Prussia, declares that lh :
provisions of 'The Hague convention
are void for two reasons. j
The first of these Is. the lowspa-i
per states, that Great Britain never j
ratified the. convention; und, second. j
that paragraph 2S specifically dc-j
elaies that the conditions of the agree-!
nienl are lu force only between sbtna-j
toiicH and then only when all parties 1
at war have signed.
The Gazette points out that Serbia, j
Montenegro, Turkey, Italy and Kim - j
land never ratified the provisions. !
Early Repeal of Free Sugar
Clause of Underwood Bill Is
Predicted; Whole Revenue
Scheme to Be Considered,
at first planned In fee the president
today and diicie-s llle draft with him.
Later, however, the plans were
changed, ami il was said lonlght that
the seerelaiv would not confer Witil
Ihe pie.-idcnt until M In,, unless
there should be s.oiiie unforeseen do-
vcliipiiicnl.'
pet Is lo
paitnu'iil s
la'
Sect-
he
mi
tar
Count yon 11. rnslerl'f
(Illicit to III" stale ll"
lime Monday or Tin ,'!
v Lansing allowed It to
AUSTRIAN EMPEROR
NOT SERIOUSLY ILL
I eeotn
have soio
silallia ia
few days.
In v lew
'. In. I, tin
o'cl.-loi.il
lllll lo ill!
kc
own toda.v (hat be riiiKbt
aiinoiiiieeiocnt on lln- Lu-
to make williin llu next
lo,
After Ihe Saloons. j
ciaviun, ' -
in Clayton have been dosed by thre
sheriff,, leaving one still in operation.
closed
hieausc it iN.ueiellM- mainiuuieu uiai .wrs. ji
.Miners' I'uy Iiiit a-cd.
j lioiighiim. Wis., l-'eb. .1. Fifteen
hundred miner of the Wolverine and
Mohawk copper mines of the Stanton
,group will rn .clve another Increase in
hr! wages, it v.us announced today Ae-
hadjcording to the statement given out liy,thrity
the, the hiine miin igt ineiit the iiicri am
;RT MORNINa JOURNAL RPtCIAL LIAD WIRri
j .urieh, Switzerland, I'l b. (via 1,1
London, :3U p. m.) All rumors of'"
'the 111 health of Kmpcior I'raiu is Jo
Jseidi of Austria, are unfounded. n -cording
to information received ln'ivina
'from what Is (lecbtred to be an unliii-:in
lieaehable source. Persons seeiiuj the ,1a
emperor frequently di-fiarv tbtit he is in view of
In perfect health, aeeorillnu to this a'l-' i mei mini;
of religious worship i ovfo ner nusnaun nu niui sue iiati , cording 10 no- siiiieioeiu given oiu oiinoin.v. oigmuifig ins nays w oi k ai t i 1,11
,i th . b,w allows petition is be- 1 een mvoivt-u in me vnxr uy ine.iue mine iiiiiiiihtiiieiu me iiicrvane in niun k hi ine moriiiug, us usual
to (love all the saloon , a, i uai nmnii'in woo huhu inus mail' ooiuis n, mr ,o:ii luuis liom ine aooeu ,uai oaji oee
Imiligate his own punishment. llo ten per cent monthly. I well all through the war, I will
ing circulated
in this i inity.
It is mellt
remarkably i l i lir1
Iw
of tin Ii. ll Ul e of the pi, ruse
i b i ina 11 I'0 el 'I, 111, -III in un
lo have substituted i as
ilo bide t In word "illegal" ill
tion will) llo- l i II til l: of nen-
all. li t i, i n t 1 1 1 l- h i was called to
e la, t formal tede lo lerniuiiy, in i
lie I, s'.-i nia I a Lansing wr'-le:
I be Ann i lcail I'o-iiioo.
"In view el tb.- admission of ill'-- ,
lilt made l, the i upeiial i-otein-;
ol w Io n ll pleaded llo- rii;hl "f i e- i
Hal. on in dei'eiise of its acts, and.
niamfcM possibility i f
th" established rules I
I Malum. il warf.tre, the govel'll-
of I h- I'lllleil Sillies call llot
,e that Ihe imperial government
longer refrain from disavowing
, tUI MORNII.a jr. i, ANAL ftPCCIAL LKAbKU WIRC
, Washington, Feb. 5. Democratic
Jeaib rs i ;a i t to bat e the adminis
tration bills for creation of a turlff
j commission and repeal of Ihn free
sugar clause of llie t'uderwood tariff
bill belore ihe house before tho end
of neM week and to press them for
'early passage. Chairman Kitchln an
in.ain.ed today thai the ways and
i means eolnliiittee Would iqect Wt'd
I itcsdny or Thursday to draft reports on
; the two nieasuns, and tl'.at the sugar
; bill, which would be tal.cn up first,
probably would be considered ut a
d.Mooi ralie en iieus within the week.
! He thought it could Ite passed by Feb
I i uar.t i).
S. ue deiiioi ruts on the conimlttoo
are said to favor deferring action on
I the l.ii iff commission ami sugar bills
niilil parly loaders hate worked out a
il, rmiie retenue program. As sugar
iioi'ld ; on llle lice list May 1 Ull
li ss tin- ii fa al is passed, however,
-tpatate action on that bill ut least
taohabb, ti i- i" ii m m end ed. About
folly million d.dl.irs U derived from
the sugar t.,i itf 'a!iually. Bepresent
atite Hill's hillf for i protective tariff
on dye' utnif', t ii b discussed at a
conference between President Wilson
ami Chairnian Kitchln soma time next
week and It In understood they muy
go over the entire revenue situation.
