DAILY EDITION
I?
Vol VI., No, UN.
tuns PASS
FACTORY ON
SOUTH SI
OF RIVER
Site Selected Believed to Be
on line ol the New Rail
road Just Out of the City
Limits on Fifty-Acre Tract
South Grants Pans will without
1 on lit bo tho exact location of the
new sugar factory. A site there ha
been under contemplation, aiimut 50
are being available upon which to
erect tho factory, conntruct the ahcds
and warehouses and establish the
feeding yard fur mock brought In to
b fattened uiou tho pulp.
Thle site ha Ix'cn surveyed out
and offered to the company. It lies
Just arros the river, and runs south
from the sharp turn the railroad
makes after It leave the brldgo upon
whlch tt crosses tho river. This site
la admirably located. Just beyond the
city limits, and has ample room for
the sidings that will bo built from
the new railroad to accommodate the
ears of beets as they arrive at the
factory.
For tho haul to this site negotia
tions have been In progress for some
time between the Twohy company
and tho Southern Pacific official to
adjust the matter or a Joint rate.
These negotiations havo now tbecn
uccosafully concluded to tho satis
faction of each road, and a terminal
rate adjustment made.
The only word concerning the char-
.,... f h ix.it.iintfM tn i, nroeted
Is that received by the Courlor from "''l" t abandoned today.
8ilt Uke City. This was that fire-1 losing himself, however, indi
proof steel construction had been ! l that the situation Is not alto
pwlfled In the contract. Whether , Shcr hopeless when he said that
concrete or brick will bo used for the negotiations vlth Ambassador von
wall Is not known, but already a 1 "ornstorff will 'be continued. At the
movement Is being undertaken to!" tlmo he admitted that nothing
liave brick used, as these could be the German envoy advanced yester
made right here at home. dt' offerl M" holo 'or a satisfac-
P. 8. Dram well, field uperlnteud- 'ry settlement of the problem.
nt of the Oregon-Utah SiiRar com- j Meanwhile the main hope of offl
pany, in charge of their Interest hero . ' that Uernstorff has been given
at the present time, says that the authority to go beyond what hi mem
main factory building will bo of four orandum yesterday suggested,
atorle and basement, and that about ! "I the situation deadlocked!"
4en acres will probably ibe covered Unslng was asked,
-with buildings and sheds. Tho bat- "W'hllo confidential negotiations
ance of tho slto will be employed in 'continue the situation can not be
the yarding of stock brought In tojcalled deadlocked." he replied,
consume the pulp not taken by the i The fact that the president did not
farmer. Stock feodlng bocomes an
Industry of much magnitude at sugar
factories, the public press noting the
arrival In a single day of 8,000 Bteers
for feeding at one factory. Sheep
and hogs are also fed at the factory.
The details of the construtlon of
the factory can not be definitely
known till the arrival of a membor
of the firm of contractor, the con
tractor being the Dyer company, of
Cleveland, Ohio.
RAT MOltH FISH AND
' REDITU LIVING COST
(By United Press Leased Wlr.)
San Pranclsoo, Feb. B.Taklng a
wallop at tho high cost of living, the
state fish and game commission ha
begun campaign to teach house
wive how to prepare fish so they
will eat more of It and les meat.
MIH8 ttETS $BOO
. VOK ONE STOLEN KISS
Kansas City, Fob, 5. Bernuso a
Metropolitan street car rallwny con-
dnirtor kissed Miss ICvolyn Whtttlng
htim, 10 year old, tho company has
. agreed to pay her $!00, though sho
sued for $26,000.
0 HA NTH
No Other Town in
ACQUIT WIDOW
or MURDER or
Providence, It. 1., Feb. 6. Tbei
ldood of lr. C. Franklin Molir In not
upon tho hands of his widow.
After several hours of delibera
tion, the Jury in her trial acquitted
her of the charge of murdering him;
at the fame time, however, It held
Hint Victor Ilrown and Henry Spell
man, negroes. Jointly accused with
her, were guilty of Mohr's murder.
Dr. Mohr was shot as he rode In an
automobile with MIhs Kmily Burner
near Providence In August, 1815.
Oeo. Healls, hegro chauffeur, claimed
Mrs. Mohr engaged the negroes to
sluy the doctor. ThU the defense
denied.
Kfforts were made to furnish a
Jealousy motive through picturing
Mohr's attentions to other women.
Then again the state sou flit to show
that Mrs. Mohr was after the doctor'
money.
Tho decision followed an apparent
deadlock during about seven hours
today. Instructions were asked late
this afternoon and then the Jury soon
afterward brought In Its finding
Mr. Mohr was overcome with Joy
at the tidings. '
LUSITANIA CASE
(Uy lTnlted Press Leaned Wire.)
Washington, Feb. 5. Though the
administration holds the Lusltanla
situation very grave, the scheduled
conference between President Wll-
on and Secretary I-analng to
con-
hold hi scheduled session with Lans
ing was taken to mean that he found
nothing In the report of hi special
envoy, Colonel House, necessitating
discussion with the premier. What
House reported, though, la known
alone to the president. In this con
nection It was pointed out, however,
that If House had made an acceptable
suggestion for a compromise this
would have been communicated to
Lansing, fh order that the latter
might have the benefit thereof In his
discussions with Dorngtorff. At the
same tlmo, the abandonment of tho
conference Indicated that no Imme
diate crisis Is In prospect.
Washington, Fob. 6.- The
Lust-
tanla situation 1 very grave.
With Gorman-American affair
thu dollcate and entangled anew,
President Wilson wo achedulod to
meet Secretary of State Lansing to
day In the first of a aerled of all Im
portant conference to determine
America's, future policy toward the
Teutons,
The gravity of the case arises from
(lermany'a refusal to meet the Amer
ican demand for a disavowal for tho
torpedoing of the giant British llnnr.
Continued on Pago 8.
1
DEADLOCK
I'AHH. JOHKI'IIINK OOIJNTV. OREGON,
the World the Size of Grants
GEI
AlOUICEiJ
J.
0
Head oi Oregon-Utah Company Tells Citizens of Medford
That Second Factory Will Be Erectetf in 1917 if Acre
age Warrants, and Asks Co-operation of Entire Valley
in waning me new iccusiry a tompieie success
The great factory to be
Oregon-Utah Sugar company
Pass.
It took the bluff and the
nicreial club to bring from
directors are in meeting, a definite statement as to the
location of the industry. The Medfordites, frightened at
the knowledge that business
building of the iactory m the (J rants Pass end of, the val
ley, where the greatest acreage had been secured, and
where natural conditions were best suited for the enter
prise, undertook Thursday to force the issue, and to block
the locating of the industry at Grants Pass. The Com
mercial club of Medford wired to Alex Nibley at Salt Lake
City asking if a bond of $100,000 guaranteeing the delivery
of 5.000 acres of land for the 1916 cnop would interest the
sugar company. Through this
brought to a climax, and from Salt Lake City there came
a reply from Bishop C. W. Nibley, the head of the company,
himself. 1 his reply blasted the Medford hopes, for it stated
in positive terms that the location h3d already been select
ed by the directors, and that that location was in the
Grants Pass end of the vallev. The text of the telegram,
which was signed by C. W. Nibley, was as follows:
"Salt Lake, Utah, Feb. 3, 1916. Medford
Commercial Club: Your wire to my son, Alec, re
ceived. Appreciate your offer. One factory this
year is assured for your valley, and the construc
tion contract has been let. The directors of sugar
company decided to build first factory in Grants
Pass end of valley. It is impossible to get seed for
additional factory for 1916 planting. I will be
glad to take up building of factory in Medford end
of valley for 1917 crop, by which time we hope to
get seed from Germany and .Russia. The com
pany has authorized its officers and agents to sign
up contracts with farms to grow 7,000 acres of
sugar beets this year. The company desires that
your club and ali citizens of the valley render all
assistance possible to obtain the additional acre
age for this year and by next year you can more
easily sign up and grow enough beets for a factory
m your end of the valley.
The message that called forth the above announce
ment was addressed to Alex Nibley, and read as follows:
"Will one hundred thousand dollar bond
guaranteeing delivery of 5,000 acres acceptable
and irrigated land for 1916 crop interest you?
If so, get your father here at once. Weather clear
and immediate action necessary."
Wbrd of the exchange of the above telegrams was the
first knowledge in Grants Pass that the factory had been
located here, though hope had been high and there was
anticipation of an early announcement. Naturally there
was joy in tho community when it was known that Grants
Pass had drawn the capital prize. The enthusiasm and
the spirit 6f the whole people had been put into the cam
paign for beet acreage, and the farmers had signed con
tracts because they wanted to grow beets and establish a
new industry in the valley. The exact location' of .the fac
tory was a secondary consideration but nevertheless a
most interesting one. Grants Pass is to be congratulated
that jt has come to her.
SNOW STORM ItliOCKS
TRAINS IN MIDDLE
WEST
(Dy United Press Leased Wire.
Chicago, Feb, B, Tho snow storm
from the northwest lashed tts way
toward the middle west today, adding
HIXDAV, FEBKCARV , 1016.
Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
NT lAntuv Juubt iwuniAHU m a a
111 vmuLU cnu
built this season by the
will be erected at Grants
bluster of the Medford Com
Salt , Lake City, where the
conditions would dictate the
effort the issue wasat once
several Inches to the two to three feet
of snow1 already In some Dakota
cities.
Portland and Seattle troln are
again blocked at many points, with
a delay' ranging from five to fifteen
hours. ' ,
linnnr Tiunnw inn In a imn n
ROBERT, ARE
Judge John Twohy and son, Robert
E., arrived in the city Saturday morn
ing from Portland and will remain
for a day or two looking after the
Interests of the new railroad which
they are building toward the coast.
Saturday afternoon the igenUemen
went out over the line to Waters
creek, inspecting the new portion of
the construction for the first time.
At noon Saturday the two gentle
men were the greats of honor at a
luncheon at the Josephine hotel
which was attended by about 40 of
the menvbers of the local Commercial
club. At the luncheon Mayor Truax
presided, and Judge Twohy, Presi
dent Robert Twohy of the C. & O. C.
railroad, and Frank S. Bramwell,
field superintendent of the Oregon
Utah Sugar company, addressed the
diner. Each of the gentlemen spoke
In a most optimistic vein, and show
ered congratulations upon the city
over the successful termination of the
sugar factory campaign. The Messrs.
Twohy assured the citizens that tbey
were strong in the faith for southern
Oregon, and Intimated that even
larger things than had heretofore
been contemplated were 4a store for
the district. They left-no, doubt la
the minds of their hearers that the
new railroad would be In the UllnoiB
valley early in the fall. .
LOCALS Will FROM
CENTRAL PIT
"Best game of basketball I have
ever seen." This and many other
similar expressions were heard last
night when the high school boys
took- the Central Point AthleUc club
Into camp to the tune of 26-17. The
game was undoubtedly the ibest that
baa ibeen played here for several
years and those that attended are
probablr still nursing their throats
from the strain occasioned by too
much rooting. ,
The game opened with the husky
team from Central Point going
strong, and they managed to make
the first basket. Tbey showed the
result of playing a large number of
games, and whenever they managed
to get loose their team work was ex
cellent. The high school boys, al
though much lighter, were too fast
on their feet for the other team and
managed to keep the score nearly
even all during the first half. The
score see-sawed back and forth and
when the half ended the score stood
9-7 for Central Point
The next half proved the superior
ity of the home team, as they took
the visitors off their feet, flguraUre
ly and literally. They easily ran the
score up until they had established
a lead that would have been hard to
overcome. In this half the basket
throwing of Hansen and Smith was
the feature of the game. The guard
ing of Presley and Cornell comes In
also for a share of the glory of win
ning the game. H7 Harmon, at cen
ter, was certainly going at bis best,
for be easily out-jumped his oppon
ent even though ho was handicapped
by the superior weight of the other.
The game was not marred by any
unnecessary roughness, although at
two different times a Central Point
player measured his length on the
floor and was unable to play for some
time. Ross of Central Point acted as
referee and Claud Smith was umpire.
The high school (boys will make a
trip to Central Point In a few weeks.
They piny at Murphy Wednesday of
this week.
JUII,
1ST
WHOLE Xl'MBEK 1662.
ISAW10
Balkan State Prepares to
Pltoge Into the European
Combat Taking Up Arcs
Against the Central Powers
Rome, Feb. 5.- Roumania, hither
to aloof from the straggle in the Bal
kans, is reported in private advices
today to be ready to plunge into the
fray on the side of the allies. Her
army, under a decree issued Thurs
day, calling the class of 1896 to the
colors in advance, will bring her mo
bilization op to nine-tenths of fall
war strength. More than a half mil
lion sturdy Roumanians are massed
on the Bulgarian and Hungarian
frontiers.
Already Bulgaria has closed the
Roumanian frontier, except at the
cities of Oporitos and Pebrugia, as
she mistrusts the Intentions of her
neighbor. Roumania,. In this connec-,
Hon 'it la pointed out that no Rou
manians are concentrated on the
Russian 'frontier, lending color to
the reports that Roumania will link
her cause with that of -Russia and
the entente. , : , .
Heavy artillery ( from Roumanian
Black sea ports Is being rushed to
the Hungarian frontier, while at the
same time the Roumanians are forti
fying the Bulgar border, expecting
that the Bulgarians will drive against
it If Roumania attacks Hungary.
Several element have tended to
hasten Roumanian participation on
the aide of the alliesi - i
First, concentration of Russians in
Galicia and Bukovina, and the fact
that the power of the Slav offensive
in Bessarabia has partly offset the
Russian retreat In May. 'And this
has -convinced the Roumanians that
the Slavs are by no means "down and
out."
Second, the arrival of Anglo-French
reinforcements at Salonikl has con
vinced the Roumanians that an allied
offensive would cripple the Bulgars
should they attempt to invade' Roa
manla while the main Roumanian
army was engaged against Hungary.
Third, the closing of the Rouman
ian border by Bulgaria and the, clos
ing of the northern and western fron
tier by Russia on account of troop
movements has practically - cut off
Roumania from the world, making it
Imperative that ehe take sides for
economio reasons. 4 ,
Fourth, England's purchase of 80,
000 carloads of Roumanian grain for
150,000.000 In gold won the support
of Roumanian grain growers because
It eonvlnced them of the financial
strength of the allies.
WANT TITLE TO 00,000
' ACRES OF LAST) QUIETED
Uklah, Cal., Feb. 5. Through its
attorney. Preston ft Preston, the D.
E. White Lumber company of Green
wood yesterday filed an action against
John F. McCullom and 96 other de
fondants to quiet title to some 60,000 ,
acres of timber land on the lower
Mendocino coast. It Is rumored that
the company Is about to dispose of ita
vast holdings.
NEAR-REVOLUTION1 IV LISBORN
Paris, Feb. 6. A riot, assuming
proportions of a revolution, broke out
In Lldb-on Inst night and continues
today. Crowds are attacking the re
publican guards and plllnglng stores.
I
