First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
NUMBER 37
Politicians Busy
During Final Week
Republican Rally At Valley Isle To
night Rev. Desha To &2 Speaker
Dr. Raymond Scores Opponents
In Tuesday Night Talk
This week, the final one of the
campaign, has been a busy one for
the Maul candidates and politicians,
as mnny meetings have been held al
most every night In various parts of
the county. A number of the candi
dates made their final trip to the Ka
laupapa settlement during the week
and all were enthusiastically received
by the Inmates, who seemed to get
great enjoyment out of the campaign
ing and the visitors from "the out
side." The campaign activity is to
be continued up until the very eve of
the election.
Dr. Raymond, and as many of the
Democratic candidates who wish to
do bo, are to make talks at the Valley
Isle theatre In Wailuku on Monday
night. This will be Dr. Raymond's
second meeting In Wailuku, where
from now on he intends to center his
campaigning. The first meeting was
held last Tuesday evening. The at
tendance was not very large, on ac
count of a counter attraction.
During the course of this talk,
which was fluently Interpreted by Wil
liam Coelho, the Democratic candidate
for senator frankly claimed the credit
for the securing of the ten per cent
Increase of county employees' salaries
from the supervisors and the placing
of the road workers back on a six
day basis for five and a half days work
a week.
He scored the Republican speakers
who had attacked him a week ago, as
he said, "for trying to do something
for the poor man." He declared that
It was untrue that the county had
ever been hard pressed for funds and
that as soon as he was appointed to
the county board that he had had no
trouble in finding funds for all purp
oses needed.
Another Repubjican rally Is to be
held at the Valley Isle theatre tonight,
at which one of the visiting speakers
will be Rev. S. L. Desha, of Hilo, who
has been campaigning on Molokal
with Prince Cupid, and Harry Bald
win and George Cooke, candidates for
election as Maul senators, and all the
Republican representative candidates.
Roosters Training
For doming Out"
Over. 140 persons, both men and
women, have sent In requests that
seats be reserved for them at the fair
boosting dinner which is to be given
at the Grand Hotel on next Thursday
evening. Fully sixty more are expect
ed to make similar applications with
in a few days.
The Roosters, the new organiza
tion of the Maul Chamber of Com
merce, have compiled and are practis
ing a number of new boosting Maul
songs. They are also keeping their
voices in . good order so they will be
able to make as much noise as any of
the speakers.
Among the speakers, who have al
ready consented to make talks, are
the following: R. A. Wadsworth, D.
H. Case, F. B. Cameron, H. W. Bald
win, J. Garcia, J. J. Walsh, Mrs. T. B.
Linton, W. F. Crockett, J. C. Fitz
gerald and W. L. West. Besides
these talks, music is to be furnished
by the' Mary Hoffman orchestra and,
oa Tnn nmnm m ill; I mil huvb. iucic
are to be frequent Interruptions of
noise by the Roosters.
In all, the promise of a highly en
tertaining evening Is contained in the
plans for the fair dinner.
Maui To Have
An Auto Club
Maul Is to have an auto club, short
ly, organized along the lines of the
Honolulu Auto Club, If the effort of
J. P. Foster of Paia is successful. He
brought up the question of organis
ing such a club at the meetiug of
the fair committee held yesterday and
the plan met with approval from all
'those present. He said that a num
ber of Paia, Makawao and Hamabua
poko motorists had already discussed
the matter and were anixous to see
the organization effected. If for no
other reason that to urge the better
enforcement of the automobile ordin
ance. The discussion brought out
the fact that the motorists themselves
were very anixous to see the dimm
ing of auto lights clause in the ordin
ance enforced, which It was declared
had not been the case up to the pre
sent.
Open house will kept at the home of
E. B. Carley, the superintendent of
the Maui Telephone Company, onelec-
tion night, while the returns are being
received. As customary, everybody
is welcome to be present.
Daisy Is Coming
To County Fair
Honolulu Elephant Is To Be One Of The
Amusing And Interesting Attrac
tions At Maui Show
Daisy, the Honolulu elephant recent
ly purchased as a Kapiolanl. park at
traction, is to be one of the sights at
the Maul County Fair, if the plans to
bring the animal to Wailuku do not
fall through. Riley Allen, editor of
the Star-Bulletin, suggested to the
fair committeemen that he thought It
would be possible to secure the eleph
ant as an added attraction by simply
making a request to the Honolulu
board of supervisors. The drawing
power of the elephant as an attraction
for Kapiolanl park has been great. On
the first day the elephant was exhib
ited in Honolulu over 10,000 people
went to the park to see the animal, he
said.
Tho committeemen received the
suggestion enthusiastically and asked
Mr. Allen to learn on his return to Ho
nolulu whether the elephant could be
secured for the fair. The day after
he returned to Honolulu, a wireless
was received from him stating that
the supervisors In Honolulu were will
ing to mako the exhibit, if a formal
application was made to them.
So far as in known, there i no doubt
that the elephant will be one of the
great attractions for t' e children at
at the fair, as many of those on Maul
have never seen such an pnimal.
Fair Excursions
Are Planned
Committeemen At Regular Weekly
Meeting Take SI eps To Secure Spec
ial Boat Service To Kahului From
Honolulu For County Show
Plans for excursions from Hono
lulu and Hana, and the best means of
getting the various exhibits here,
were discussed.at some length at the
regular weekly meeting of the county
fair committee held yesterday after
noon at the Town Hall. Every effort
is to be made to have an excursion
boat come from Honolulu Thanks
giving Day, probably leaving Hono
lulu in the evening, and remain here
until Friday or Saturday night.
The cooperation, of the Ad Club,
Chamber of Commerce, Rotary Club
and various other Honolulu organiza
tion, which have agreed to make an
exhibit, will be asked to also aid in
having an excursion run by the In-
ter-Is'.and and to get the people of
Honolulu interested in coming.
Regarding the possibility of a suc
cessful excursion from the Hana, the
committeemen were not so enthusi
astic, as it was feared that there would
not be sufficient patronage to warrant
it. However, it was decided to name
Principal McCluskey and Supervisor
Drummond as a committee to ascer
tain the number who might take adv
antage of the opportunity, if a special
boat was run from Hana to Wailuku.
The committeemen decided that the
press should be asked to inform all
exhibitors that all consignments or ex
hibits should be addressed to the
Transportation Committee, Kahului,
Maui. It is urged that the exhibits be
sent in as early as possible, preceding
the fair dates.
That the entries for the live stock
exhibit will be closed in a very few
days was intimated at the meeting,
as the number of stalls now required
is about three times more than was
first thought necessary.
Tho question of securing outside
judges for the exhibits was discussed
and it was decided to get experts
from the other islands, whenever poss
Chairman Wadsworth announced
that all the exhibit booths on the fair
frrnunds. which will be constructed
from lumber would be up within a
Victor Schoenberg, Will. Chilling-
worth and County Attorney uevms
were named as a committee to com
pile the list of fair exhibits ana me
program. .
MAUI SUBSCRIBERS NOW
HAVE COMPANY CONTROL
The control of the Stork System
of Savings Company, a corporation for
whih wnrrv Prmor and Charles B.
Hall have been securing subscriptions
on Maui for the last two mourns, nits
passed to the Maul stockholders.
When the majority of the stock was
subscribed for by Maul people, the
promoters immediately took the initial
steps to make Maui the home office of
the company. The first act was the
naming of W. A. Baldwin as trustee
for funds and the Baldwin National
HanTi aa tVin dpnositorv. The com
pany has tin unique advertising system
which will bo placed in all me large
cit'es of the mainland.
William Weight, sugar boiler at Wai
akea, Hawaii, is paying a visit to his
brother, George Weight.
A Plea For An Old Woman And A Boy
Pitiful, in the extreme, is the tale of poverty and physical infirmity
of a destitute, helpless, friendless and aged woman, in the very
center of this island known all over the group for the charity of its
wealthy population which comes to the Maui News, from County At
torney Bevins, who has personally investigated "the case."
Lying unattended and unable to perform the slightest task for her
own comfort in a small room in the
Galician woman, nearing the age of
stroke, who spent much of her youth
as a laborer on two of Maui's great
Without nourishing food without proper personal attention, the
most needed, her life is slowly ebbing away, while the only succor she
is receiving is from the kindness of a foreign race, the humble Japan
ese laborers, and a thirteen-year old son, who had to be taken away from
a good home this week to aid in his youthful, i nexperienced way in the
last sad days of his dying mother.
Professional charity "investigators", if they were to make "a
study" of "the case," might report that the woman is the victim of her
own misdeeds and overlook the outstanding heroic fact of her life,
that for the sake of her son, she consented three years ago, even though
then she needed the few cents he could cam for her support, that he be
placed in a home where he might receive an education.
But even her greatest wish, that
home, with the priviliegc of gaining.
ed at least temporarily. With no
on Maui, or the whole territory, in
was sent, back to the one room home this week by the order of the
circuit court to administer to her aid in matters too intimate to describe.
Such is the bare, brief facts of this woman's pitiful condition.
Will Maui permit them to remain the same?
If the story has any appeal to your charity, County Attorney Bevins
will inform you how you can aid in assisting this old woman in her last
remaining days and save an unusually bright boy from the horrors
of memories of how his mother spent the last days of her life, in a land
of plenty, denied even the nourishment of human kindness.
But there is one bright ray to add to this otherwise too sad story :
Three years ago, when her poverty and infirmity was brought to their
attention, the supervisors appropriated a pension of five dollars a month
for her aid. That small pension is what she has subsisted upon during
that time.
Does this act of the county board once the woman's story is known
brightly promise that Maui people will remember that "charity begins
at home?"
If it does, remember that County Attorney Bevins will receive
your contributions for her aid, and otherwise tell you how you can
help. -
Inter-Island Official
New Rates
HONOLULU, November 3 James L. McLain, vice-president of
the Inter-Island Navigation Company, while testifying before the public
utility board yesterday afternoon regarding the freight rates of the com
pany on cattle shipped from Hawaii, Maui, Molokai and Kauai to Ho
nolulu, declared that the new rates" are lower than those formerly charge
ed cattle shippers. He gave comparisons to show that the shippers were
enjoying a lower schedule than before, as a whole, although not so, he
admitted, in some instances.
The investigation of the new rates was undertaken over two months
ago by the public utilities commission, after Harold Rice lodged a com
plaint with the Maui Chamber of Commerce against the new freight rate
on cattle.
Frequent meetings have been
which nearly every cattle shipper in the islands has testified. The In
ter-Island is now entering its defense.
The commissioners adjourned
until November 13th, when it will
Woman Land Expert
Now In Wailuku
Declared to be the best Informed Ha
waiian woman in the territory on land
matters, Mrs. Emma Nakuina has been
called here as a witness in a land
ejectment case in which Alfred Hay
seldon of Lahaina is trying to dispos
sess some Hawailans from a piece of
property, which ho claims as his own.
The Hawaiians have lived on the land
for a number of years and claim it
by adverse possession. Hayseldon
bought the property from Fred Beck
ely, a son of Mrs. Nakuina. D. H.
Case Is representing the Hawaiians
and County Attorney Bevins is at
torney for Hayseldon. Mrs. Nakuina
was recently appointed as a member
of the committee named by Judge
Ashford in Honolulu to investigate the
conduct of the Kamehameha Schools.
While here she will interview former
Kamehameha students.
STEALS TEACHERS WATCH
GETS EIGHT MONTHS
Filamon del la Cruz, who stole a
gold watch from the home of Miss
Prouty, one of the Camp 1 teachers,
was . sentenced to eight months Im
prisonment this morning. Miss Prou
ty lives in the Camp 1 beach house,
and while she and her associate teach
er, Miss Swift, were away from home
last Sunday evening, Cruz entered the,
house and appropriated the watch.
The Camp 1 policeman secured a con
fession from Cruz and got the watch
back, but had much trouble getting a
chain, which was also stolen, return
ed. Cruz is a Filipino fisherman.
Japanese camp in Wailuku is a
seventy, the victim of a paralytic
and nearly all of her advance life
plantations.
the boy might be placed in a good
an education has had to be defeat
one to volunteer and no institution
which she could be placed, the son
Claims
Are Lower Than Old
held by the commissioners since, at
the freight rate hearing yesterday
be resumed.
A Civil Suit
Recalls Tragedy
Recalling the tragedy of last Dec
ember when the whdle family of Man
uel Pacheco Santos, consisting of the
two parents and five children, were
swept away and drowned in a gulley
on the Hula slopes, near the Pulehu
Camp of the Maul Agricultural Planta
tion, an action is pending in tho circuit
court to collect the- life insurance of
the father from the Lusitania Benevol
ent Society. Tha society does not
refuse to pay the insurance, but wants
a decision to tell it to whom the in
surance should go, as both the father
of tho dead husband and the father of
the dead wife claim the money. If the
wife had survived the husband she
would have received the money, or her
heirs, but as all the family was drown
ed ihere Is no eye witness to tell which
died first. Unless an agreement is
reached by the two claimants, the
question as to whom is the rightful
heir will be thashed out in the court.
The amount of the insurance is $1500.
BICYCLE GETS BOY
DELINQUENT IN TROUBLE
Joe Ferreira, a youthful delinquent
who was on probation under the care
of Father Julian, is in custody for
stealing a bicycle from a Puunene
Japanese and taking it to Lahaina.
Ferreira first got into trouble for play
ing with the switches in the Paia
yards, where he almost wrecked a
train. He is now in danger of being
sent to the Oahu Industrial School for
his second offense.
Fear Is Expressed' For
Safety Of Nine Americans
Captured By Bandit Villa
EL PASO, November 3 Great fear and anxiety is felt here over
the safety of nine Americans who were known to be in Parral when it
was captured by Villa and his bandits. No details regarding the treat
ment of the residents of Parral by the bandit leader have been received
here, which adds greatly to the anxiety of the relatives and friends of the
Americans, some of whom live here, and all of whom have acquaintances
in El Paso. The fear is openly expressed that Villa will make the Am
erican prisoners suffer on account of his hatred for their government.
PARIS, November 3 Pressing an attack, which has been going in
spurts for two weeks, the French have succeeded in capturing important
trenches of the fortifications before
prisoners were also captured.
LONDON, November 3 Daring the British fleet, a German de
stroyer captured the Dutch steamer
aboard, but were afterwards overhauled by British destroyers. The
captured vessel was rescued and conveyed safely to port after the Ger
man destroyer had been routed.
REDDING, Cal., November 3 Mount Lassen, the northern Cali
fornian volcano and the only one in the United States, is again active.
ALBANY, N. Y., November 3 Charles Hughes, the Republican
candidate for president, says, in
opponent, that he is unashamed of the way his campaign has been con
ducted. He adds that it has been conducted with courtesy and every
prospect of eventual success on next Tuesday.
HONOLULU, November 3
in the second degree and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Brewer & Company are to be the Honolulu agents of the Pacific
Steamship Company, which has formed a large merger of small steam
ers.
ATHENS, November 3 King
Royalists troops to stop the Venizelos followers, when they march to
attack the Bulgarians. The Venizelos troops now occupy Katerina.
A German officer, who was carrying a compromising letter to the
Kaiser from King Constantine, has been arrested. The German is also
accused of having in his possession plans of the defenses of the Suez
Canal.
HONOLULU, November 2
Harold Jeffs at 6 o'clock this morning. She was the wife of the Honolu
lu barber of that name, who it is said
bhe was once divorced from him and was just starting another action.
The inquest will be held tomorrow.
Sheriff Rose admits that women are leaving Iwilei as the result of
the crusade of the vice committee.
Three women were caught in
heard a rumour that a waman was
game.
The Rapid Transit Company officials say that there will be no track
relaying until all the material reaches Honolulu.
The fact that there are no National Guardsmen of Hawaii on the
Mexican border is said to account for the big appropriation given to the
local militia. This appropriation was for $329,000.
Secretary Thayer has refused to grant a birth certificate to a three
year old Japanese, because the child is to be taken to Japan for fifteen
years for education.
The territorial auditor has granted a sixteen year license for a
flume to the Hakalau plantation in return for a strip of land along the
Chin Chuck road. '
BERLIN. November 2 The Germans have evacuated fort Vaux.
The French have reganied ground at Les Bouefs and Rancourt.
General Linsingen, the German general, has inflicted heavy losses
on the Russians at Stockhod and captured 1500 prisoners.
BUCHAREST, November 2 Rumanians are pursuing Teutons
west of Giul Valley.
WASHINGTON, November 2 Secretary Lansing has issued
statement that the United States will hold Germany accountable, if the
Marina was sunk unwarrantably and without warning. He understands
that German's pledge included vessels armed only for own defense, ac
cording to the correspondence between the two countries. He will not
accept contention that pledge applied only to unarmed vessels. He
thinks that Germany may use the Marina to settle the issue of the sub
marine question.
OCTAVIA, N. Y., November 2 Hughes is sure of Ohio, Illinois
and New York. He flays the Bourbons for not reducing the cost of
living.
CHIHUAHUA, November 2 General Villa shot twenty-nine Car
ranza guards on train running out of Juarez. The passengers were
robbed and the bandits stripped the women of their clothes. The bandits
have captured Parral.
BALTIMORE, November 2 A submarine of the U-S3 type has
been reported as having been seen 400 miles from Cape Henry.
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
SESSION 10:30 A.
Sugar Price at N. Y. 96 degrees
E'wa Plantation Company
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co
McOryde Sugar Company
Oahu Sugar Company
Olaa Sugar Company
Pioneer Mill Company
Waialua Agricultural Company
Honolulu Brewing & Malting Company
Mineral Products Company
Honolulu Consolidated Oil Company
Ungels Copper Company
Mountain King Mine
Hawaiian Sugar Company
Onoinea Sugar Company
Hawaiian Pineapple Company
Oahu Railway & Land Company
Mutual Telephone Company
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd.)
Hilo Railway (Common)
San Carlos
Honokaa
Sailly and Saillisel. Two hundred
Oldampt and put a prize crew
reply to criticisms of his Democratic
Endoso has been convicted of murder
Constantine of GreeCe has ordered
A rifle ball ended the life of Mrs.
might have prevented the suicide.
a gambling raid. The police had
conducting an organized gambling
M. November 3, 1916.
i ,
35. V
51.00
n.
32.X
15.5i
.'
20.
my,
3.35
3.50
0.62 '
4400
56. V
53 00
16000
2000
8.00
300
1400
11
1
,
:.
