' \
Fair tonight and tomorrow; k "f^MR/ f F^TOTttPrCSS^tO^Ff<)ni?
change in temperature: heavy frost to- MB .^K. J^L B JB ^L >BiA y* ? ): M T^r^o7renytyWir
hours I I II i/ * ! l^Ti ill rtf SRI if 1^ Jffi W^?? the Hour"
ending p.m.: Highest, 4:30 p.m. B j Br B H B B B B B /t B 9
yesterday; lov est. 4S, at 7 a.m. today. /I B BBB BIB Bill ^ B* B B
on page '
-?? f y J * Sworn Net Clrenlatloa. Month of October.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 20. I *^F IBIS, Dally Averase, fMIti Sunday, SK071.
No. 2<M9L WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ONE CENT.
POLICE NIP PLOTS
TO BLOW UP TWO
SUBWAYSTATIONS
Arrest Six Men Charged Witli
Carrying Dynamite Into
New York City.
ALLEGED CONSPIRATORS
ARE STRIKING CARMEN
Detectives See Purchase of Explosive
From Factory?Confession
Said to Have Been Made.
i?y ttie A rwiated Frets.
NbvV lORK, November 2.?Plots tc
dynamite two stations on the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company's subway
system were thwarted, according: to the
police, by the arrest today of six men,
several of them strikers, charged with
bringing dynamite into the city and
with causing the dynamite explosion
which occurred in the 110th street station
October 24. A confession which detectives
say they obtained from one of the
men under arrest sets forth that the
station at 59th street and Broadway
was to have been blown up today and
the station at city hall later.
Several of the prisoneis, according to
the police, appeared at :? powder factory
at Kenvil, N. J., yesterday and purchased
fifty sticks of dynamite, 100 fulminating
caps and 100 feet of fuse.
Detectives were watching at the factory
as a result of a clue obtained during
investigation of the explosion
last month. Two sticks of dynamite
found in Central Park at that time bore
the name of a Kenvil company as the
maker.
Purchased Explosives.
James A. Murna, a former subway
marH nnil Thnrnns _T \Trfltllre. a
chauffeur of Caldwell, N\ J., visited
Kenvil yesterday and purchased the
explosive said to have been used in today's
explosion, according to the police,
and Murna and James J. Herlihy,
a former elevated railway guar.d, it is
charged, purchased the dynamite in
Kenvil October 23.
Murna, McGuire and Herlihy are under
arrest together with George Pollok,
a former elevated guard; Lawrence
Kulle, a former subway guard, and
Benjamin Harrison, a former elevated
guard. All of these men except
McGuire, the police say, are members
of a district local of the Amalgamated
Association of Street and Electric
Railway Employes.
Police Capt. Tunney of the bomb
squad said evidence had been uncovered
that funds to finance explosions
came from the union and that other
arrests would be made.
Say Union Furnished Money.
A special committee of the district
body plotted in a Harlem assembly hall,
the alleged confession said, on^~ speaker
stating that dynamiting had been used
successfully during strikes in Albany,
Buffalo and Philadelphia. The committee
voted $50. and th s money, the police declare.
was used for the purchase of the
explosive.
Harrison is the local's business agent.
Herlihy its financial secretary and Murna
its general secretary, the police asserted.
Capt. Tunney said that the $50 was part
of the collection which strikers have been
taking up in the streets when they appeared
with hand organs and appeahid for
funds. In this way the appropriation
was kept off the local's books, as the
money did not come from the organiza
Carried in Suit Case.
the dynamite used in the explosion last
month w-s taken from Kenvil to Newark,
N. J., by automobile, according to
the confession, and there packed in a suit
case and transported in a taxicab to this
city.
"In the suit case it was carried up
town in the subway. There was no one
on the station platform when the men
carrying it alighted," the confession
said, "and a fuse was set which burned
two and a half minutes, giving the
dynamiters a chance to get to the
street before the explosive went off.
two minutes after a train carrying
passengers had left the station. The
men then escaped into Central Park,
and it was iri climbing over a wall that
one of the men dropped the dynamite
which furnished the clue.
Mayor Told of Arrests.
The ar^st of the alleged dynamiters
was reported to Mayor Mitchel while
be was in conference with William B.
Fitzgerald, general organizer of the
Carmen's Union, and other leaders of
the strikerst. who had requested bins
again to use his office# in bringing
about a settlement between the strikers
and the traction companies. Trie
mayor said the matter of the arrests
was not, however, discussed at the
conference. Fitzgerald sai l he knew
noThing ino*-e about the alleged plot
than Vie had been told by reporters.
The mayor promised the strike leaders
that a^tcr election day hc?.vrouid
confer with President Shouts of the
Jnterborough, w itri a view to ending
the strike through arbitration.
WILL MAKE LAST SPEECH
OF CAMPAIGN TOMORROW
President to Talk to New Jersey
Neighbors at Shadow Lawn
Celebration.
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. November
President Wilson returned here this
forenoon from New York, where he
spoke lust night. He made the trip
(ruin New York to Atlantic Highlands
on the naval yacht Mayflower and then
went to Shadow Lawn by automobile.
Mrs. Wilson accompanied him.
The President will deliver his last
speech of the campaign here tomorrow
afternoon at a celebration of "Old
Home day." before a gathering of
neighbors from New Jersey. In It he
is expected to sum up the issues of the
?-ampalgjn.
Tuesday the President will motor to
Princeton, his former home, to vote.
Tuesday night he will receive the returns
at Shadow Lawn. Special arrangements
have been made for furnishing
him with the news aa promptly
as poaaibla.
".. .
VENIZEUSTS SEIZE
! TOWN OF KAIER1NA
j
\ j
|; Greek Royalist Troops Forced.
| to Retire Before Revolu- j
i j tionary Forces.
KING WOULD BAR ADVANCE j
By the Associated Pregg.
LONDON, November 8.?According to j
! special dispatches from Athens, the !
| vemzeiist national defense army has
seized and occupied Katerina, a few
miles southwest of Saloniki, after a
short fight with the Greek royalist
' troops. A dispatch to the Daily Mail
from Athens says:
"An extraordinary situation has been
created by the action of the officers of
the Larfssa railway, which is conj
trolled by the entente allies, in allowi
ing royalist military officers to send
' reinforcements to oppose the advance !
" : of the Venlzelists.
"That the entente should permit the
: } lending of assistance in military meas
ures against their own allies, namely,
! the Venizelist troops, is considered in'
> coherent and naturally surprises the
I i Venlzelists."
i | The Venizelist army now numbers
! 30,000.
Xing' Would Check Rebels.
King Constantine has issued orders
to the royalist troops to prevent the
I | advance of the revolutionist forces at
j all costs. One hundred and fifty loyal
, ! troops had previously evacuated Katerina
before COO insurgents armed with
. machine guns, withdrawing to Larissa
: to join reinforcements. The evacuation
j of Katerina is confirmed by the gv.n- .
| eral staff.
j Special dispatches from Athens printjed
in this marning's papers give sen-'1
' sational details of the alleered arrest at f i
; Larissa of a German officer, who was i .
proceeding in a motor car with the ;
German legation mail pouch.'bound for , -'
I the Bulgarian line. It is said the pouch
j contained important messages to the i
; military attaches at Sofia and Constan- >
! tinople, and also detailed plaits of the t
Suez canal defenses. In addition, the t
dispatches say it contained "compromis- 1 t
; ing" letters from the Greek king and t
; queen to the German emperor. t
Danger Zone for Vessels.
' Telegraphing from Athens, Renter's
; correspondent says that Admiral Du j
j Fournet, commander of the allied fleet j r
j in the Mediterranean, has sent notice ; a
; to the Greek harbor authorities indl- j a
eating a danger zone for \essels en-!,
j tering or leaving Piraeus harbor. | 1
"Certain circles in Athens," the cor- I c
respondent continues, "interpret this a
notice as meaning that Admiral! 1
thj Fournet has hitherto neglected to ! s
inform the Greek authorities of the! ?
precautionary measures taken, such as j t
the laying of mines, and it is even in- !
slnuated that the Greek steamers ! a
Anwhelikl and Kikl Issaias, which were : ^
sunk recently, struck mines laid hy the \ f.
j entente allies." i s
! a
Sunk by Klne or Torpedo. j c
Ia
ATHENS, November 3.?The French ! s
i admiral has issued a communication ! 1
! savine that investigation shows that ! *
the sinking of the Greek steamer! j
Angheliki was due to an external ; '
cause?a mine or submarine?which, i
owing to the measures taken by the j
entente allies, cannot have been 0/
other origin than German or Germany's !
allies. The communication says that j
the investigation into the sinking of J
the Kiki Jssaias, although it has not
been completed, gives evidence for a j c
similar conclusion. j <
U. S. TO DELAY ACTION I;
PENDING GERMAN REPLY
IEvidence
in Marina and Eowan-.'
; S
more Cases May Not Get j J
Here for Week. \
'i
Before leaving last night for his ?
home at Watertown, N. Y., to remain \
until after the election next Tuesday. ; *
Secretary Lansing said that it was ex- ;
tremely unlikely that conclusive evi- ;
dence regarding the cases of the Ma- j
rina and Rowanmore would be avail- j
. able before the latter part of next j
week, arid without such evidence, he j c
added, it was impossible to know If \
' Germany had violated its pledges re- a
! garding submarine operations.
Even though all information desired t
from British sources and American sur- \
vivors of the Marina were at hand, ac- t
lion by the ITniteO States government
would be delayed pending Germany's
reply to the request for her version of j c
the incident. In previous instances
V, n*?re ?u?"ii <i requcai n<tn i > e ?; 11 uidui;, <x
week or more lias elapsed before th$ :
attacking submarine has come in arid j
, several days further have been needed ; *
to collect and transmit the information, j
Stand of This Country.
j Secretary Lansing made a statement- J
during the day, explaining that the r
; State Department held that Germany's
j pledges not to sink merchant ships ]
; without proper provision for the safety
' of persona on board applied to rner- ,
chantmen armed for defense as well '
{a> to unarmed vessels. Germany's last j
| spec inc. word or. armed ships, however, j
was her memorandum announcing that *
; they would be treated as war vessels, I
land the fact that the Marina carried j
a 4.7-inch gun is expected to piay a j *
' conspicuous part In the exchange that f
j will follow if it !s established that she'.
I was attacked without warning.
Is
CUBAN ELECTION IN DOUBT. ! \
IConservatives
Claim Full Returns
Will Give Victory to Menocal. j'
j HAVANA. November 3.?The result i ]
j of tbe presidential election helil !
throughout the republic Wednesday ,
still is in doubt. The supporters of
President Mario G. Menocal, the conservative
candidate for re-election, running
against Dr. Alfredo Zayas,
nominee of the liberals, made claims today
that President Menocal's re-election
will be shown by the complete
' returns.
Incomplete reports show the conserv- .
atives leading in the provinces of
1 Plnar Del Rio and Santa Clara. The
liberals are leading in Oriento prov,
lnce, but the conservatives claim the
returns from the ttfty-seven missing
districts wlil give them a majority
in that province.
The carrying of those three provinces
- by the conservative would give
President Medocal t* victory.
k, . v- ..
J-,,.*.. - ; ^^
FT. VAUX IS AGAIN .1
IN FRENCH HANDS
Ring of Defensive Fortifica-;
tions About Verdun Fortress,
Is Re-Established.
;
JOFFRE GAINS AT SAILLISEL
__
By the Associated Press.
LONDON. November S.?Fort Vaux
is again in French hands and with '
Douaumont already regained the ring :
of defensive fortifications about Ver- j
dun has been re-established. Paris to- j
day reports the occupation of Fort ;
Vaux. evacuated during Wednesaay .
night by the Germans.
This movement, the French official .
statement declares, was effected with- j
out loss to the French, who waited until
the series of explosions inside the
fort had ceased before they advanced, ;
unopposed, to take possession.
On the Somme front Berlin admits j
the loss by the Germans of portions of ;
the village of Sailly-Saillisol that they j
had taken from the French, but an- '
nounces tne repulse of British attacks j
east of Gueudecourt and of French advances
upon the northern part of St.
Pierre-Vaast wood.
j
Reasons for Evacuation
of Fort Vaux Are Set Forth
by German Military Men
BERLIN, November 3.?Fort Vaux at
Verdun was evacuated on the night of
N'ovember 1-2, in accordance with prearranged
plans, according to the German
military leaders, who indicated
that they considered the sacrifices involved
in its retention out of proportion
to its value in the present German
strategic scheme.
The Associated Press representative
vas informed on the evening of November
1 from German headquarters of
the impending^ evacuation and the retirement
of the German lines to positions
better adapted to defense, and at .
;he same time was given an expianaion
of the withdrawal. j
Held of No Importance.
Forts Douaumont and Vaux, it was_
sxplained, formed such a material ele- j
nent in the defense of Verdun as long
is the^' remained with unimpaired
irmament in French hands that they
lad to be put out of action in order to
iripple the fortress, and once this was
iccompiishcd the ruins of the forts .
* ith the armaments removed, poslessed
no such importance to the Gernans
and served chiefly as targets for I
he French artillery.
Now that Fort Douaumont had passed s tgain
into French possession, Fort
faux no longer, in the opinion of the
Jcrman leaders, justified the heavy
;acrlflces necessary to retain the ground
ibout the fort, which is ill adapted to
lefense against attacks from the south '
tnd west. Fort Vaux was therefore
ibandoned, and the German lines re- |
ired to positions less exposed to the '
rrendh artillery.
Mlies Will Keep at It
on Western Front, Says !
British Military Director j i
LONDON, November 3.?During the j 1
;our.se of an interview with the Asso- I c
Press corresnondent. Mai. (1 n i e
j\ B. Maurice, chief director of inili- | s
ary operations at the war office, was j '
isked what he thought of Field Mar- *
hal von Hindenburg's statement that r
he entente allies could not break 1
hrough the western front in thirty j
rears. Gen. Maurice replied:
"Our recent offensive was not de- s
iigned to break through. Its purpose 1
vas to relieve the pressure on Verdun '
ind kill as many Germans as possible.
will not undertake to say whether it
vUl take thirty years to get the Ger- \
nans out of France, but the allied t
itrength .constantly is growing, and (
he German strength constantly is de- j
dining. The effect of the allied offeniive
is accumulative. When the weather ,
>ermits its resumption, the results will j
>e greater than ever. Torrential rain^ (
n the past week have prevented ac- j
ions of any great consequence. ; fc
May Beplenish Stores. t
"It is no doubt true that the Ger- s
nans in recent fights have been short
>f ammunition. During the winter, *
vith its short days, limiting the use oi c
irtiilery, they will be able to replenish
heir stores, but, despite the bad ;
veather. we have no intention of let- ! {
in? up on them. j
"Our offensive will continue through
>ut the winter when conditions are at '
ill favorable. j t
"From documents recently found on j t
prisoners there is no question but that ! ?
here is a great deterioration in the ?
nemy's morale and material, al- j *
hough they have been able to m^in- t
ain the number of their divisions. This : t
las been accomplished by withdrawing
egiments from old divisions to form !
lew ones." . *
' 1
STUTETEEN CENTS A POUND DID. ?
_ ________ V
government Offers Thirty-One Tons a
of Tobacco at Auction. a
NEW YOKK. November 3.?The high- v
til bid for thirty-one tons of plug to- ^
>aeco, bought by the United States <
government for the use of the navy v
ind condemned as not meeting tho ^
standard required, was cents a
>ound. The government originally o
aid 36 cents a pound for the tobacco. *
rite item was the largest in the an- 11
iual sale of condemned stores yestertay
at the New York navy yard. An- n
muncement of whether the bids will ?
>e acceptable will be made later by tho ?
lepartinent. j J
Bids also were received for cut-glass '
lecanters and wine glasses which have Z.
graced the sideboards of United States 'f
laval vessels, but which are now obiolete
under the Navy Department's
uling forbidding the use of intoxicating
liquors on government ships,
rhe bids represented about 40 percent f
>f the original cost to the government. J
I
BETTER GASOLINE? J
Can gasoline be detined and
standardized? Two bureaus of J
the government arc trying to j
do it. The problem is one ?
which affects every motorist. 8
Read this article in The Sun- ,
AvSlM <
. .
'-V VfciCnrnS:' aS-'iv S ' 15- J J"- --C"
EMBASSY RECEIVES I
SUBMARINE'S MAIL
i
.ieut. Krapohl, Second in I
Command Oft Deutscftland, . J
Comes to Washington.
DISCUSSES UNDERSEA TRIP
i
Lieut. Franz W. Krapohl, chief of-!
icer and second in command of the |
German undersea liner Deutschland, I
?aid a short visit to Washington this!
norning and called upon Count von ]
Sernstorff. the German ambassador,;
carrying a number of official papers
md several letters in reply to those
sent on the ship last summer. He
ame here direct from New London,
:otiii., stopping overnight at a Baltinore
hotel, and stayed less than twoj
lours.
"The second trip of the Deutschland j
icross the Atlantic was carried out j
itrictly to program," said Lieut. |
krapohl this morning. "In one respect '
consider it even more successful than
he lirst trip, for we not only succeeded
in escap'ng the numerous British
varships. whlcn gave us their kind atention,
but, and what was more diffi:ult,
you know, we escaped all the
American reporters lying in wait for us. i
"They only discovered our ship when I
ve had long been seated comfortably j
n the smoking room of the Willehad, j
irlnking .already the third glass with
fri- rids to celebrate the 'wleder- j
iehen.' "
Upon being questioned in regard to j
lie last mentioned "escape," Lieut, j
Crapol emphatically reiterated his j
statements.
"Hut they did a great deal better than 1
he English," -tie said. "They finally
:aptured us."
Speaks About His Trip.
Lieut. Krapol would say nothing in
egard to the future plans of the
Deutschland, but spoke to some extent ,
.bout the trip across the ocean.
"The weather was awful most of the.'
ime," he said, "and tried our good ship f
o the utmost. We like our boat as a 1
food rider likes his horses, and are
flad to be on it and to take with it all
he obstacles. For hours and for days
he deck of our little boat was overrun
vith heavy seas, which forced the crew j
o remain under deck with all hatches 1
ight. Even the conning tower, the
:>ath tub,' was constantly swamped,
nd the eternally drenched officer on !
/atoh. though getting all the fresh jtir 1
ie wanted, did not get a chance to light
. cigarette. It was even worse for the ,
est of the crew, for our 'unterseeboot," {
It bough a v. ell behaved creature, is j
cry hot inside. j
"Hut to make up for it all. and, seemigly
to celebrate our arrival, the Amerian
coast greeted us with the fairest
.reather," he added. "Tt's fine to be on
hore again ami ^ meet our American
rlends once more."
Lieut. Krapehl sURed that there was
nly been one change made In the peromiel
of the crew of the vessel from
ts last trip.
The lieutenant Is a mil. young-looking
orth German. He Is thirty-nine years
Id. but looks to be less than thirty. He
tated that the men all are well, and that
here was no sickness during the frip.
t is improbable that any more members
f the crew will come to Washington, he
tat.ed In reply to a question to that elect.
}
Ambassador Congratulates Crew.
rin r.on',a'p Abrens attach? to the
Jerman embassy here, went to New
ondon yesterday and accompanied .
,leut Krapohl to this city. Dr. Atirens i
rarrled the congratulations of Count
:on Bernstorff to the crew.
Lieut. Krapohl's Identity first was
lisclosed In a Baltimo e hotel last
light, when he went th"re with an
tcqualntance to dine. He does not
vade publicity, but merely is traveling
lh an ordinary tourist. I
"Germany is going to win the war." ';
is answered. In rep'y to the usual
luestiotU "Seventy million people, .
-4' _j. S.-o?- /,*? '.* >^ JL > .k-/.
BOTH
SEEM
from the lowest to the highest in the
la^d. sry so. and we r.iust win it."
Foodstuffs, he said, were higher In
Germany than usual, but cost no more
than similar commodities here.
Medals made from the ballast of the
Deulschland, when she made her first
trip here, are being made for the benefit
of German prisoners in Siberia.
They are on sale at the headquarters
of the prisoners of war relief committee,
24 North Moore street. New York
city.
If the agents of the German merchant
submarine Deutschland will signify
that she is available for carrying
mail to Germany the Post Office De-*
partment will be so notified In a formal
communication from the German
embassy.
Count von Bernstorff, the Gefman
ambassador, has asked the agents to
inform him on the subject. The Post
Office Department already has declared
us willingness to accept a proposal to
establish a regular underseas mail
set vice.
Embassy officials said that none but
official mail pouches were brought over
on the Deutschland. Clerks today
were sorting this, any many official
dispatches were being deciphered.
obeiIMem
OF GAS STOCK TRUSTEE
Georgetown Company Does Ttot j
Want American Security and
Trust Named by Court.
Objections to the naming of the
American Security and Trust Company
as trustee to make the sale of the 3,530
shares of the stock of the Georgetown
Gas Light Company which the court
recently determined was being held improperly
by the Washington Gas Light
Company, were presented today to the
District Supreme Court by attorneys
for the Georgetown company and for
Thomas L. Hume, a stockholder in the .
Washington company. j
The lawyers also objected to a pro- j
posed sale in bulk ana to a provision to {:
sell either at public or private sale. I
They asked that proportional lots be i
offered and only at pubiiresale. J1
The objections were made late this !
afternoon at a hearing afforded by i5
Justices Gould and Stafford for sug- P
gestions as to the form of decree to 1
be signed in reference to the sale of j
the stock. The court reached no de- ]
cision, but held the matter under ad- j
visement. ,
Attorneys J. J. Darlington and Benja- ]
miri S. Minor for the Washington com- ,
pany offered a decree naming the 1
American Security and Trust Com- j
pany as trustee and directing a sale ?
in bulk of the shares either privately '
or at auction. i
Attorney William J. Johnson, for i
the Georgetown Company, objected to ]
the trust company because one of its l
vice presidents, Howard S. R'-eside, is | i
president of the gas company and ?
James M. Green, Joseph Deiter and
Daniel Fraser are among the directors '
of both companies. He opposed the
sale in bulk and asked that small lots
be offered at public' sale only. J
Would Get a Better Price.
Attorney 1*3. C. Brandenburg, for Mr. *
Hume, also referred to the interlocking
directorate and strongly opposed the 1
naming of the American Security and i
Tru^t Company. c
Attorney Darlington defended his *
suggestion of the American Security T
and Trust Company as trustee, and v
pointed out that the company is trustee r
under a bond issue of the gas company
and is entitled by law to sell any of t
the property pledged under that mort- *
gage.
He also pointed out that a sale in ?
small lots would be only in the interest
/.c Unworn t\f Georgetown c
pany stock, who need only 531 morelshares
to give them control of the cor- 1
poration. He declared a sale in bulk,!?
carrying as it does control of the company.
would bring a better price. I?
Referring to the objection as to in- i 5
terlockmg directors. Mr. Darlington 1
said It would rather favor the ap- iE
pointment of the company, because S
they would be interested in getting aji
higher price. He said the American "
Security and Trust Company would
charge only $1,000 for its fee as trustee,
while a regular commission to individual
trustees would amount to $6,000
Mr. Darlington suggested that if the
court is inclined to give weight to the
objections as to the proposed trustee, ho
would be satisfied to have the National
Savings and Trust Company designated.
He said the latter company would also
act for a commission of $1,00Q, jy
J9
AID OF TRAVELING
PUBUCISSOUGHT
Co-Operation Held Essential in
Solving 0. C. Street Car
Service Problems.
AVERAGE SERVICE IS BASIS
With the public utilities commission
and street railway companies endeavoring
to bring about satisfactory
results under the operation of the new
service standard, plans are to be considered
shortly, it was stated today,
for obtaining the co-operation of the
public in solving traffic problems.
One of the first things to be attempted
is to get the public to acquire the
"move forward" habit. The street railway
companies have been work ng J
hard on this proposition for some time. !
and now the commission is planning to J
lake a hand in the matter. Not cnly }
is much space sacrificed by passengers
insisting on crowding the car entrances,
but schedules are delayed because
of the time required by the conductor
in getting the patrons to move
forward and relieve the co-ge^tion.
Co-operation by the public in this matter
would help greatly in making the
new standard a success, it is believed.
While the commission believes the
public may be under a misconception
as to the requirements of this standard,
no complaints of service failing to
measure up to the standard have been
received.
Average Service Is Basis.
Where the misunderstanding is
thought to exist is in regard to the application
of* the standard to average
rather than individual car service. For
example, it is prescribed that there
must bo seven square feet of standing i
space per passenger during- certain!
rush periods. This does not mean, how- j
ever, that the company is at fault ifi
iny particular car fails to provide thisi
ipowance. What it does mean is that J
the allowance must apply to average,
service during a half-hour period. Like-;
wise, the stipulated allowance of 100 i
3eats per eighty passengers auringnon-i
rush service applies to average service!
luring any hour period. The service,
furnished at present by the companies!
is said to conform to the average
standard prescribed by the commission,
rhe standard is designed to serve
merely as a guide, so that the commission
from time to time will be in a
position to know whether the service
furnished by the companies is adequate
itnd reasonable.
DFFICE REMOVED TO NEW YORK
______
American Red Cross Announces r
Change in Magazine's Publication. \
The American Red Cross announced i
oday that its magazine, beginning \
vith the December number, will be !
mblished by a New York publishing j
;ompany, instead of by the organiza- j ;
ion, and will be enlarged and im- !
moved. Membership renewal fees will j 1
>e |2, one-half of which will go to the !
nagazine. ; This
move was due partly to "ex- I
raordinary increases in the cost of j
naterial," according to the announce
nent made by Eliot Wads worth, "ct- i
ncr chairman of the central committee I
f the American Red Cross.
President P. T. Moran of the Wash- ngton
Chamber of Commerce, as suoii <
.a that organization was advised of |.
he change, announced that he had J
.ppointed a committee of tho chamber j
o confer with the Red Cross officials !
n protest against discontinuance of
lublication in Washington. He named ! ,
.n this committee John F. Slaven, '
tyron P. Adam* and William M. Dove. I !
ENCOURAGE THRIFT. |
If you have no further use for to- ,
day's paper save It for the school
children's playground fund. 1
Call Main 6000 and ask for the
nearest public school, and any accumulation
of old papers will be
sent for.
Yesterday's record we* SMte than 1
four tons. , , '
JAMMANY LEADER
FULFILLS PROMISL
f
"Boss" Murphy Redeems
Pledge to Give President Wilson
a Fine Send-Off.
PARADE TWO HOURS LONG
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
j NEW YORK, November 3.?So, down
5th avenue they came last night, the
democratic cohorts, in obedience to
"Boss" Murphy's command, in order that
he might make good on his promise to
; give President Wilson a fine send-off.
| There were thousands of them, with bands
I galore and bugle squads and fife and drum
| corps, and they had all kinds of illuminat|
ed banners about peace with honor and
! prosperity and preparedness.
| As they marched every once in a while
) they would chorus the Tammany popular
| song:
'Tammanee. Tammanee.
Big chief lives in his tepee \
Cheering braves to victoree, ^
Swamp 'em, swamp 'em,
Get their wampum,
j Tammanee."
And so they went for two hours, be|
tween a mile of spectators crowding both
sides of 5th avenue. It was noticeable
! that the crowds were silent and also ap1
parent that among the marchers were
many hundreds of lads below the voting
age. But it was a grand turnout at that
and "Boss" Murphy was there in person
| to give it proper Tammany class, or would
| you call it eclat.
Takes Town by Storm.
President Wilson took the town by
I .gtdrm yesterday and from noon until
bedtime was the recipient of a continuous
round of ovations. It was
| "Wilson day" to a verity, and Mrs.
; Wilson shared it, too. His reception
at Madison Square Garden was com!
parable to the frenzy of enthusiasm
which greeted William Jennings Bryan
! in 1S96.
Wherever he went during the day
j he was fairly mobbed by enthusiastic
democrats, while the women risked
their paradise feathers to get a glimpse
of Mrs. Wilson.
And now today the town is looking
forward to the visit of Col. Roosevelt,
who is to have his turn at whooping up
the enthusiasm, while tomorrow Mr.
Hughes will take his place in the spotlight.
New Yorkers are nothing if not
enthusiastic, and they dearly love a
spectacle. In the meantime the political
leaven is working. One yeast cake
which is being used is the advertising
space in the daily papers, and the politicians,
finding what the merchants
have long known, are going to it on a
scale never before witnessed in American
politics. It is estimated that the
two political parties will spend close
to a million dollars in advertising in
this last week of the campaign, appealing
through the columns of opposing
papers in benair or tneir pamsansnip.
Former Editorials Produced.
The republicans published in the New
York World, which is supporting President
Wilson, a page of extracts from
former editorials in the World praising
Mr. Hughes when he was in public life
in this state. They contrast with some
of the things the World is now saying
about Candidate Hughes.
Republican hopes grow stronger day
by day as reports come in, while at
| the same time they are apprised of the
| fact tnat a great many republicans intend
to vote for President Wilson. But
there is no doubt about the absolute
confidence of the democrats. Every
one in the national management sincerely
believes President Wilson will
win. Some New York democrats, however,
who know conditions in the state
say in private conversation that thej'
would put New York in the Hughes column
on general considerations. They
add that they hope it may be a Wilson
landslide, but that if it is not a landslide
they cannot see how the democrats
can carry the state.
SEVEN RUSSIAN ATTACKS
niirm/rn-n\/ nrnmnn
untbfvtu DT ulIaIVIAIio
Slavs Fail to Recapture Positions on
the Narayuvka?Admit Reverse
on Stokhod:
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN, November 3, by wireless to
Say ville.?Russian troops charged seven
times yesterday in an attempt to recapture
positions taken by the Germans on
the Narayuvka, southeast of Lemberg.:
They suffered exceptionally severe i
losses, the war olfice says, and gained |
no success.
Petrograd Admits Beverse.
PETROGRAD, November 3.?In the
Stokhod river region, near Witoniez
and the villages of Mikhailovka and
Alexandrovsk, battles are proceeding.
The first German attacks on Witoniez
and the heights south of it were repelled,
but in the afternoon the Germans,
after a fierce artillery bombardment,
launched a fourth attack and
captured Russian advanced trenches on
the western bank of the Stokhod, south
of Witoniez.
Sunday Col. Pozdniak of a sapping
battalion was mortally wounded and
died almost immediately.
In the wooded Cat pathian region!
west of Capul mountain, the Germans;
attacked the position of a Russian
regiment and had almost succeeded in
pressing it back, when Russian reserves
arrived and repelled them.
AUTO OYEBiURNS; 3 KILLED.
Fourth Probably Fatally Injured in
Accident at Minneapolis.
MINNEAPOLIS. Minn., November 3.?
Three persons were killed and a fourth
injured, probably mortally, when an '
ilrivan hv V. C* Valann I
iUlUiW"""" "J ?VI (
St. Paul turned over on a curve on .
the West river drive here today. The
lead: Mabel Sigstad, twenty-two years
aid, Minneapolis; Ida Sigstad, eighteen
years old, Minneapolis, and Frederick
Brant, St. Paul. Nelson is near death.
The four were pinned under the car. i
Four hours later workmen hearing I
Nelson's calls lifted hln^irom ' the j1
wreckage. f <
'MAKESMTAMFF
i HIS CUE HEME
1 Mr. Hughes Also Criticises De'
mocracu inr Failinn tn Rp
duce Living Cost.
ON LAST LAP OF CAMPAIGN
Br the Associated Press.
HUDSON. N. Y., November 3.?In his
speech here today Charles E. Hughes
j made the tariff his chief theme and
! assailed the democratic party for Its
1 failure to reduce the high cost of liv*
| Ing. "I think they were just as elo!
quent in promises four years ago as
j they are today," Mr. Hughes said. "As
j I look back to the statements that
were made at tlw timo-I cannot see
how any one could have said anything
more eloquently, more persuasively
than was said at that time with respect
to what was going to be done for
American labor and American business.
You would have thought at that time
that the sun of promise had just begun
to shine upon a benighted world and
that they were going to have an en
now Lunuiuvii ill wiiiuii ><wor
would profit to the utmost and American
business would get an extraordi~
nary incentive.
What Democrats Promised.
"They told us, for example, that there
i was the high cost of living. Well, we all
i knew that. We had very intimate knowl!
edge of that fact, but, what was still more
' to the point, they told usu that they were
going to reduce it and that If we would
: Only put them in power they would show
us how the high cost of living was going
to come down. Through a division in our
; ranks, which I am glad to say has been
happily healed, they had a chance to show
what they could do with this high cost
of living.
"That robust domestic companion, however,
has become more and more robust
and seems to thrive on a democratic administration.
And it is mounting higher
' and higher and taller and taller, and when
i we consider this promise in relation to
, present promises we wonder whether they
; are going to do any better with respect
to the future than they did in these recent
years with respect to this highly important
matter.
Reduced Chances of Making Living.
"While they did not reduce the cost
of living they were eminently successful
in reducing the chances of making:
a living. They did not promise that;
they promised quite the contrary; they
had a wonderful program; they were
going to reduce the cost of living; they
were going to provide for the expenses
of the government through their tariff
1 system; they were going to increase
> the ODoortunities for business and thev
were going- to have American enterprise
as they said, take on a new size
: and speed and have opportunities foA
American labor multiplied.
"Well, they put their principle in
force. They had not had a chance to do
it in a great many years. They proceeded
to do it with very extraordinary results.
In the iirst place they had a
tariff for revenue only, but it was a
tariff that did not produce revenue.
Results of Tariff Policy.
"We had a great falling off in revenue
through a tariff for revenue, while wo
- had a great increase of imports, and so
in time of peace, which now they emphasize.
forgetting the little wars we
have had in Mexico, they had to pass
what is called a war revenue bill to
take care of the deficit which was the
result of their fiscal policy.
"Then they said they were going to
have American enterprise take on a
new size and speed and it did, a much
reduced size and a much slower speed.
The opportunities of labor vanished or
were greatly reduced, and we had a
very extraordinary condition in this
country."
f tr;? rr,.nn..lr.
ais navcis xuuhv.
Mr. Hughes will end his travels as a
presidential candidate today. He left
Albany at 8:15 for New York city,
spending the day campaigning down
the Hudson river valley. Today's journey
was the wind up of four campaign
trips, wh'ch have carried him approxij
mately 2S,uOO miles, through thirtythree
states. He started August 5 from
New York and has spent virtually two
and one-half months on the road, not
counting the three brief periods of rest
that have punctuated his campaign.
During his campaign he has visited
the chief cities of every northern and
New Kngland state except Vermont, has 4
been through the middle west four
times and has appeared in every western
and northwestern state.
In addition, Mr. Hughes has visited
the four so-called border states of
Maryland. West Virginia, Kentucky
and Missouri and has spent one day
in Tennessee at Nashville.
In mileage and extent of time the
campaign lias been one of the longest
made In recent years by a republican
nominee. It has carried him from
Bangor, Me., the furthest northeastern
point, to San Diego, Cal.; from Canada
to within a few miles of the Mexican
border. Apparently the sti-enuous campaign
has agreed with him. for todav
! he appears to be somewhat heavier
and in better physical trim than when
he started.
His program for today called for
speeches here, at Kingston, Poughkeepsie,
Newburg, Yonkers and Brooklyn,
where he will address evening
meetings. The special train carrying
the nominee is due at New York at
6:15 tonight.
Believes He Will Win.
ALBANY, N. Y., November 3.?Charles
E. Hughes, speaking here last night,
declared his belief that he would win
the electoral votes of Ohio, Indiana and
New York and, asserting that he was
"looking forward to the responsibili
regarded as "the essential conditions of
national leadership."
Mr. Hughes addressed an audience
that had waited nearly three hours to
hear him. He was introduced by William
Barnes, former republican state chairman.
The nominee in previous speeches
had declared that he had no apologies
to make for his attacks on the administration
for its foreign policy, had characterized
as "very cruel and unwarrantable,"
the suggestion that a vote
for him meant a vote for war, and he
declared his opposition to & "muddle of
meddle" in American foreign relations.
"The executive is the guardian of the
national honor," Mr. Hughes declared.
'He has a very wide discretion in the
management of our foreign relations.
He has his own judgment almost exclusively
as his guide and he is not supposed
to exercise that judgment except,
in conformity to the well established
principles of international law.
Urges Maintenance of Honor.
"It is not a whimsy he should consider-?it
- is not a loose generality, ?r
conceived service to hun^bUy W
