NIGHT
EXTRA
Eutftthtg
' "F IN A'NCIAL EDITI-0 N.v
STRAt,,
.V,
a;,''"
"5r;3
"X'
'
VOL. HI.-NO. 44
i -
sv. v3nr i x.
v" o 41 iinitit
c I , I
MIGHT
EXTSA
rnHiAMLPniA, piiiday, rovjsauieii a, ibiyi'
CoriUQIIT, 1010, I imTOIUO l.IDOKCOXfAKtf'
.'I
PRICflB OKE CBNT
IiGHTS OF CITY
WILL BLINK OUT
ELECTION NEWS
Jjpour Flashes, Hughes
''ins; Five, Wilson Is
Re-elected
Wi
EVENING LEDGER TO
GIVE INFORMATION
1,600,000 to Watch for Re
1 '. suit as Returns Are
Gathered
"BLINKS"' WILL SHOW WHO'S ELECTED
ELECTRICAL CHIEF HELPS
tiiy Arc Lights Will -
Blink Election Result
,s
tHE Evening Ledger has arranged
to have the 16,000 street arc
lights of Philadelphia announce the
Jesuit "of the presidential election to
the entire city Tuesday night by a
series of blinks.
The news of the election of a
President will be blinked over Phila
delphia's wide area with the co-operation
of Chief. McLaughlin, of the.
Electrical Bureau ttnd of officials of
the Philadelphia Electric Company.
The Evenino Ledger's blink codo
follows: . ,
Election of Charles Evans Hughes
four blinks.
Re-election of Woodrow Wilson
five blinks. ,
At midnight, if election is in
doubt, three blinks.
Get on tho, band "wagon and be
6omo a blink fan right away. .
&JjPO0 , (4 BLINKS) I
x W Vn it V ' ht5 BLINKS) I
QtWWWiQ? ' (3 BUNKS) I
ES5SNiHS9K9iKffiffi?iMnllSlHy"IH9
CADORNA DEALS
CRUSHING BLOW
TO FOE'S LINES
Austrian Casualties Es
timated at 20,00Q,
Rome Hears
ARTILLERY RESUMES
DEVASTATING WORK
Battle Grows in Fury
"Key to Trieste"' Is
Attacked
as
The Evenino Leixjeii will blink the
presidential election result to every man,
woman 'and .child In Philadelphia Tuesday
night fe
if Charles' Evans Hushes comes In a win
ner In the race, for the highest publlo office
in, the land every one or the 16,000 or' more
electric, arc.llghts within the city llmlls will
blink, four Republican.' blinks that is, the
lights will go'off for a fraction of a second,
arid, come on again. This will bo repeated
untiftiie entire are lighting system of the
city has .blinked four times, just as a human
'eyelid blinks when the owner desires to
flash a humorous signal. -to another human.
If Woodrow Wlson Is re-elected arc lights
hroughout the city from f Bustlcton 'to
South Philadelphia, and from Delaware ave
jrae to the most western limits of "West
fcrdUdelphla, will ibllnk 'five " Democratic
blinks;
If 'at midnight the election Is In doubt
the city's aro lights will communicate this'
fact to the citizens of Philadelphia by
blinking .three times.
It will bo the first time In the world's
history that the lighting1 system of a great
city has been employed to convey to every
body the news of a momentous national
event 'It will be the first time In the his
tory of .the United? States that .1,600,000
Continued on Face Eleven, Colama Three
vCHBEFS.OF CAR STRIKE
IMJMNNI5WY0RRF0R"
DYNAMITE CONSPIRACY
Unions Financial Secretary, His
Assistant and Business Agent
AYnong Those Accused, of
.Planting Bomb
POLICE RECITE DETAILS
Nrw TORK, Nov, Six men Ave of
thesitraetlpn strikers, and one financial
secretary of the Carmen's Unlori were" .ar
rested today and accused of wrecking with
dynamite, the subway station- at 110th
street arid .XienoxT avenue October 24,
According to. the police, the union official,
Wehael Ifa Jiejuihy, confessed .that a "vlo
lenee fund ha"d been raised. The plans of
the wen. It is alleged, included the destruc
tion oftbe Times square and Fifty-ninth
street subway etatles. '
A seventh. conspirator Is sought, the pollee
ay. c
It was established that, alf of the prison
ers butTnrhMcCJulre were officers or
Isesl Number 171 of the Amalgamated
AseoeUlsff eC Eleetrki and Street Railway,
Moptayes,ppttaln Tunney, of the Detective
Bureau,; s4d, They are Benjamin Hamll
top, business secretary; George rallock, as
sistant nnanolal secretary; Clarence Xulhy
friary, and James sfarup, a .member of
the executive wummfrKf. and, Mlebael J.
r HerWIhy, Jrfeffcrire-lw.a chauffeur,
' Ths Miles 'miAi 1Mm 'wtji tntalMM
agent of a local of tits strsst car workers'
VafM. Pottoe nnnMajt MeUl secretary
A Kmv. wiary
3 , ""
'iMi"'fr jiin'n
Witts NetT today war Uosi of, Jfc
ft f. H, wbo M tfetmtiy U, ids CMM.
WW" ospltal, Issvloc to ils widow W
MU4 t 1T,M0; Hsory C, Lw
, 4U Market . street, 7eoo; Dr. Mat,
Ism Wind. Msttiodlst Hospital. 40;
sjrfcftrs Oetssr, ItSt Kant Ontario strsst,
tilM; ICIlsabeth Price. Twelfth and Bu.
Wicsanns avenue. 4acl: An tun Uuett, leil
MsrUl Lwrcnss street, IUdO. and Bridget
ftesl. St Anes's Hospitsl, ( The usi
"Pliy of the estate sf Minna C. Kntsswr
NMt afraMad at 3Mi Mar H
si is SJ1 P"P,,T'
Just watch the nea'rost electric light and as soon as the result Is knowr) the
Evenino LEDcran, by arrangement with the Philadelphia Electric Company, will'
flash to youwho ha been -elected President of the United States. If Charles
Evans Hughes, the Republican candidate, wins, every electric light Used In
Illumination of Philadelphia's streets will blink four times. If Woodrow Wilson
Is re-elected, the llglts all over the city wllr tllnk five tlraei If, the result Is In
doubt the lights -will blink three times at Irregular Intervals until a decision Is
reached. It makes no difference In what section df Philadelphia you live, you can
learn the election results without leaving your home and without the trouble of,,
calling up a newspaper by watching the electric light In .front of yoyr home. '
'
CLASS ANTAGONISMS
LAID TO PRESIDENT IN
ADDRESS BY BUGHES
, , 7 .1 . . '
Wilson Assailed inNev YorK
State for'Special Legislation:
A Plea fpr tfyo Com- .
w;mon$Qja.,' .".
A MUSHROOM PROSPERITY
KINGSTON, N. 'T., Nov. 3. Charles
Evans Hughes, speaking before large
crowds hero and at' Hudson todayi ham
mered hard at the Wilson, Administration
for stirring up class antagonism by special
legislation. He also assailed the Adminis
tration vigorously for falling to take
adequate steps to protect American labor
and Industry 'from European competition
after the "war, "
"We can have success In the future de
spite the keenness of the competition to
which I have referred It we will have sound
governmental' policies; a broad vision, a,
correct attitude," lio said. "Nobody need
talk to fme about' class antagonism who
does thb, best he can to.tlr.lt up. I do not
believe ,ln any ,'dc.velppment of bitterness
among us.. We, cannot stand that. We liave
got tor havo a commpn prosperity or we, will
have nono.at'alL W have got to work to
gether for our' mutual interests or we will
have, no results In the way of progress at
all."
Mr. Hughes Again used the recent state
ment of qhalrrnn. Hurley, of the Federal
Trade Commlsslp,ni warning against Euro
pean, competition ri'fter .the ar to cambat
the president's Cincinnati speech In which
he declared Europe .would be so wasted
economically that-It would be unable to
compete with the' Uglted States com
mercially. AFTEn-WA'n COMPETITION
"I agree with what Mr. Hurley sai
'as to the necessity of, organization and
efficiency, but he stops short of the fulT
conclusion,, which, It seems to me, he should
have reached. Because wo may have a
very high degree of efficiency, and we should
develop It to the utmost! and wo may have
the best, posslblo organization, and we
should do far moke than we Jiave done
, to encourage It, and, still we may be unable
tri compete with Eufspe where- there is at
leatt an equal organisation and equal ef
fielency'," l6 said. "But there will come
Into Jjlay otier factors In connection with
aw prosperity which we must have In
wvlad, T prlos of tabor )s' a .ery liri
portant factor, as you all know, and rf
wMk squat slHslsacy' and organisation the
Mttoaii of JNrses ean eemwand labor at
' " CeStNiet'' n 1'iwh Fanri OWumn Two
COPSRUSE TmXvS ACTOR
y H ! ! S ll I i I Si
AJmt ViMvitk MtC in,
isiw'slksotivss. leoijwt Mr. astor
wSo crnants & aMueiW fswad
Msa, ! sstranps J4 vSil' sy
'Site as UsMHtHssJ agsaU, lMMrd him 'stag
"ksokM 3Tcttr.au.r fc wan swsrT
Us bwrMss-ysar-oss gun wap was with
hkn sorsMiss, jsisp nmso.
Cbarlss A VhsaUy U a ' twsnty-ss vsn-
yeruld vaudeville sotor, from Csrrolltasi!
o Tlw girl found with' him U Martta
Ktewart. frRi the same town,- She is fcu
2stsr-lnJw, tie la acuussd of sloiUnp srtta
hi- two niojiths sftsr marry ins sventssn-rear-id
XslUs Btswart.
M I WBWSJ ISUSS (bon
fcsrmzz'tisE
F"W
tnaa!&1
VILLA GAINS 20W MEN
IN CAPTURE OF PARRAL;
E1MRS FOR AMERICANS
Carranzarjason Joins. Bandit
- . W; asGJiuajiHa. Town
. ' Falls Officers Piit
f
REFUGEES
to Death,
TELL
STORY
REGIMENT ANNIIHLATED
Teutons' Trenches Penetrated
One and a Half Miles on Two
Mile Froint
JUAUEZ, Mex., via El Paso, Tex.. Nov.
3. Villa has captured Parral and the en-,
tire Carranzlsta garrison, numbering more
Qhan 2000 men, has enlisted under his lead-
cramp, according 10 rerugees reacning nere
early today from Chihuahua City. .
General Hcrrera, the Parral command
ant, and several officers were executed by
Villa, the refugees stated. .
News of the fate of nine Americans
known to have been (n J'arral Is anxiously
awaited here. It Is feared that they may
have been killed In fulfillment of Villa's
Veportod vow to shoot all Americans on
whom'he can lay his hands.
To'rreon, it Is believed, will be the next
objective of the Vllllstas.
The, train which brought the refugees
here Is. the first to arrive from Chihuahua
City. since Monday,-'when the' Vllllstas tore
iPj tracks and burned bridges on the rail
road between here and there. Tho railroad
has been repaired, but 100 Vllllstas under
General Salarar aro operating alphg the
line and attacks', upon other trains which
may.b coming, hero are feared,
Carranza soldiers In large numbers are
protecting .all passenger trains to prevent
repetition pf the hold-up of Monday, when
the twenty-nine soldiers wero killed and
all passengers lined up and robbedT The
troop trains preceded the passenger today.
No Vllllstas were seen onthe way, '
Querrtlla. fighting Is taking place dally,
north of Chihuahua, the refugees said. They"
declare that the plight of the city Is des
perate, that food Is badly needed and that
the Inhabitants who have been compelled to
remain behind are In a state of panic be.
ROME, Nov. S. Consecutive waves of
Italian Infantry are crashing against the
Austrian lines south of .Clorlzla In one of
the most powerful blows struck by General
Cndorna since Italy entered tho wnr.
The battle Is extending southward to
tho Adriatic The Italians are attacking
Austrian lines aorthwest of Dufno, an
Important railway point called by some
military writers the key to Trieste.' ,
The opinion prevails here that General
Cadorna Is preparing to strike a death
bjow.
Heavy losses were Inflicted upon the
AVetro'Hungnrlans In tho first stage of the
new offensive, which began on Wednesday,,
Official dispatches say that tho Twenty
first Iteglrpent of Austro-Hungarlan Land
wehr troops was completely annihilated.
Austro-Hurgarlan losses In tho battles
southeast of Gorlzla on Wednesday are es
timated at 20,000 by the correspondent of
the Messaggero at tho front, Tho dis
patch adds that 100 Austro-Hungarlan
battalions took part In the flghtlhgj'
The Austro-Hungarlan lines were Wereed
at' several points on the Car so plateau,
At one point the Italians penetrated a mile
and a half across, a front of two mile's.
Seven, . Infantry brigades and two regl
monts of Cersagllef f were thrown against
tho AustrbHungarianA positions southeast
of-Opt'1-: ThaltSj,-6IfiiWFtlcularly.
directed- against Hills Nob,' 307' 'and 30J.
both of which were, captured by storm.
Polfpwlng up the- first 'attacks; however,
the Italians encountered ' soide more, diffi
cult .ground andhe Infantry actions ceased,
to give the artillery W chance to. pound the
hostile lines further.
The Italian bombardment that' preceded
the first assaults began at 10:30 o'clock
on Wednesday morning, says nn official
dispatch from the front, Massed batteries
along the" Castagnavlzza-San Grado lino
poured a devastating' fire against the
Austro-Hungarlan positions over a slx-mllo
front. This shelling continued until 1:30
In the afternoon, when rcconnolterlng
parties went out to ascertain the extent of
damage done 'to tho hostile works along
tho Lokvlca-Hudllog-Castagnavlzza roads.
Tho cannonade was then resumed, and con
tinued alt night, being especially heavy
around Hill No. 202.
, The fresh blow General Cadorna Is now
striking against the powerful Austrian de
fenses east of Gorlzla and tho AVIppach
Itlver on tho Carso Plateau Is' intended to
secure stronger positions to the Italians on
their eastern .front for the coming winter
and to relieve the pressure the Austro-Oer-mans
are now exerting on tho Itumanlan
frontier. But It Is Also a now, step toward '
the coveted goal of Trieste, which Is the
territorial objective ,of the Italian com
mander. 9
Tho Austrian line which the Italians
have Just broken east ot the Valine, oii
the varSO, IS iukv new unc, iiuvint uceil
organized soon after the Italians smashed
the first line of the Carso and took Gorlzla
and Oppacchlasella.
russo-rumanians plan
great drive in dorrudja;
sakharoff" in c0m3ianu
LONPQN, Nov, 3. Russia and Rumania
are preparing a counter-otrolto at von
Mackensep'a victorious army In the Do.
brudja.
Russia has sent one of her most brll.
Continued on Pate Four, Column One
Continued on Puce l'lrf Column Two
AIR TRIP TO NEW YORK
FASTEST ON RECORD
Carlstrom Majces Journey From
Chicago in 8 Hours 37 Min-
,ut' Flying T.ime
'i .
i - '
NEW !, Nsv, 3-VJetof Carlstrom
swooped ityww frptn the sky today, landed
on Oovefner Island and ended 'his' light
nlag.llks ittftjy frfwi CjMagi He Ijad
hung up a njf '.mr foaW. onstop rord
-yesterday ( Mtvka4 mads Wa Journey at 'an
ajr'sratfe Hltltlr than 110 mUs an
. uto astital yt)pr,Ms fer the Jouwey of
Uftut 9JJ miles Hjs I ttrs i; sUiu(as.
He Mf Cfetoasjii tf,' (u) yBtafriay mor
& , ' t . -
Csrtstrom atyftHfftt lITjaltss an fatur m
hs last U of htj Vlrt. A U yind l4w
at Ms back all tt sray,
OOItala of tas Aero .Club of Aaarea.
commsJllna on this fseTture,' deolarsd tfcat
so' tar as official rsoords show It Is the faat
e; Ume evor'mads fey an arsoplaas.
IJttls wiors tHa g aswek. h soared near
Uovsraors JsiasA iMtJkttors a, is:; sftsr
l"Hll" Tjiiiinisjfllt X. Ml mUm
smy. at t.U ,- Wms4, aota. b-
SHACKLETON IN U. S.;
ON RESCUE MISSION
"T
Will Try to Reach Marooned
. Comrade on Antarctic Con
tinent by January
T
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 3. Captain. Sir
Ernest fihackleton, Antarctic explorer, ar
rived, hM Joday at Jse f4rt gllsh-feak
Ipg .region he has touched slnca he )oft
olvlHsatisn tws ywn aa and set out In
a furtte tKoft, tf eress ths ikrtitli polar
oent4ht and rsasti tlesSautN Vi. .
The explorsr ariv4 ftwei Cofwi on the
tsswMi IartBjatn .ystcsl'slop', lett for
ui rwnxim. waaaea be tu. saH Vo"
WslUsao., K. .fcniw. tWmas U tH)l.
to Jala, Awa assj aUswt to. site!
the rtseus of ten aamitaisWks, waQnA on
ths,jcs-ovsrd Antarotls. ouatteaat In ths
'turn Hsa, H will salt from 8a vyane'lsco
Wsvswbf' ' Wson pa . Is tsaoll
bis iraa44 osmradss awl rescus 4sam If
tssy as still siiva 1st to Jaiiusry, AftaV
ettectlnf the reams He says he will return
to Knciaad and Jala the Bugllsh 4rmy
if war Is Mf sadsd whss f est hack "
'h. sat " mns tV saltst an4 aast Uh
ihu awsn vfmwm n, Anr tks.wai-
ir i mm rjmvw f" swwJH
pf mm fMM roMf o
. ".!
vr'QUICK N'EWS,9' : '
TODAY'S, RACING RESULTS
' n ; , .
, first rimllco nice, claiming, junsc, fi-ytwr-oldw, maldeus lir
lorigi-rre.cl8c, 103, Ball, ?G.10, ?3.S0, ?8.00, won; liriijht Slur, lbj,
BtiUvell, 94.80, $1.00, ujwml; Tymat, llOt, Trolcr, fjaoiOO, "third.
Time, 1.15. l.tf. . . ' ' "s-
" , i " ..."'.'
1'lrbt- Windsor r'nee, all nges, 0 furlongs Wss Tos, 110.' Wil-
ligni4 -90, VJ.10, 8.D0, nw, Dorotliy Ocirtln, 10S)t MeEwon,$17.70;
?7,00," scgondj VJvIttn's., 110, Malnlltfek, ffd.CO; thfrd. Time, UIOO-O. ,
i .- ' ' '
Second "Wludsur rac .purso . fpOO, U-y cur-olds, 5 furlongs Cor-
pu&clVrjOl), dliivorjfffj.ol), $5i'o6, $&10, won;'ByJ)U," 115,' fiteama,
iJlo'-ebSLaO, stcpnU Kaguni, 100, MoloswotJli, 8.80,, third. Time,
l.oi a? "-"'''.
fy
f'
'TWIN SISTER, 75 YEARS OLD, K1LLHD BY TRAtt1 . ''.
i o2;jrvitt.lS l'ft., Nov. a -Whllo'valklnp nouR the tmeV .-.'
the Eric about noon today, Myrrnnd Mary Xovc, seventy-five ycatfl
old, wero hltXy.au cxjirecs tinin nnd hilled. The slaters wore twins.
DRIVER OF AUTO THAT KILLED CHILD HELD
1 ",
Iiouia A. Eejihcm, driver cf; the uu'cmoblle tvuej that struck
and hilled Mortimer H. Miller on Octoher lO.was held hy the Coroner
taJay to await the nctlon of tho Grand Jury.
coj-rpAjry b, engineers, due tomorrow xorning .
' - ,
Compauy B, Etisiuceis, of Xhflfulelplila, ' who have'bea at tho
"JJIe.ilc3U border for. ccveral months trtllarrlve ,at the Philadclphla'aiJ
llendtng' station 'at Thirteenth .ami Callowhlll 'streets nt" i o'clock''
tomorrow .morning- .', , l' . . ' '
UAR,GffiB0NEY
HURLSATRY"
MAN IN COURT
"Hypo6rite,"He Call H. a.
Dennis at Haddington
License Protest
o
BOTH JUDGES AROUSED
'!
4
I
ISIAN JEWS GRANTED AUTONOMY IN FOUR TOWNS
-: - ' t- , 4 , " . , . 4 ', ' '
'ENHAGKN,JoV. 3. Municipal. nutqiiom., has been granted to, tho apNylsh
RUSSIAN
COPENH
cities of'JCljlco.'Xjjibllhri'lctrokow and, nadom by thq Russian. Goyerninchtr aays i
.X. -, ,.. ., ; C -4, , . ' . - : .Jft .w'.. i'i.-..'-- ' ':";
FRENCH AIRMAN FIGHTS SIX GERMANS; DROPS ONE
PA1U8, Nov. 3. A spectacular air. fr.&lo. In which a Kronen flyer In a ijlrrslo
handed -dttach on a-group of bIx German aviators brought down xno macldne, was
announced by tho War Oftlco today. A tciuailron 'haitoned to the Kronchrnah'a aid
and brought down unothpr German madilne, putting thb others' to night. 'Athlrdl
Gorman aeroplane was shot down by the French artillery In tho Nonnebruch Eoreat.
SHACKLETON ARRIVES AT NEW ORLEANS
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 3. Sic Ernest 8inckleton, tho explorer, arrived here
today aboard the United Krult steamship Pnrlsmlnai
UNITED STATES CREDITOR NATION
WASHINGTON, Nov. 3. Tho United Stntcs stands today for tho first time in
her history In an Indlsputablo position as a creditor nation, Comptroller of tho
Currency John Skeltoti Williams declared today. Since tho outbreak of the Euro
pean wnr, ho declared, "the United States huttiaid In full a floating debt of $300,000,000
in cold, bought back AmerIcarJsocuritioi held abroad in an amount estimated at be
tween two and throe billion dollars and has loaned to foreign nations In both hemi
spheres $1,500,000,000 'of new money., Ufj
NEW P. R. R. DEMURRAGE CHARGES IN EFFECT DEC. 1
TRENTON, Nov. 3. Announcement of tho flrat radical uliango in freight' car
demurrage rates In twenty years WU3 madb hero today by tho Pennsylvania Kail
road Company. Jnstead'of tho present flat domurrago charge of $1 a day tho Penn
sylvanla' pompany will chargo, after tho expiration of the two, days' free time, 32
for tho first day, 3 for tho second, $1 for the third nnd p for the fourth; and
each succeeding day or fraction of a day. Tho now demurrage charges will' affect'
Interstate shipments only and will go into effect December 1. -
078 VIOLATIONS OF PURE FOOD ACT ,,
WASHINGTON, Nov. 3. Government pure food Inspectors during the fiscal J
year 1010 uncovered 978 jt'lolatlons of tho pure food, and drugJ act, it waa announced
today. Of these criminal action was taken in 401 cases and seizures, of stores, of
Impure foods In 677. Total Indlctmonts under the purp food, meat lnspectlon.'ant
mal quarantine and other .acts administered by , tho Department of Agriculture
amounted to 2023, with total fines collected of more thun J 110, &00.
Remorutrantfs CharKJ That Pr- '
mit Had Boon "Fked" Brirrgg
Vigorous Denial
t
A sensational clash between 'D. CtsnWe
.Olbboney,, secretary of tie Taw and Ordsr
Society, and Harry C. Dennis, one ' tk ths''
remonstrants against the granting of
saloon license In the heart df Haddington,
stirred the license Court teday as IthM
never been .stirred before, and fivttt dpw
JuJets Oarratt and Davis lntoth diaaas
slon. Bitter accusations, and recrlmlntliis
startled, tho hundreds of church'fplk as4
foes of the saloon who had come to hear
the outcome of the cpeelal meeting of ths -court
in regard to the ;rehearlng of tti.
, transfer granted' Michael J. Burke f'ronV
2100 Callowhlll street to Sixtieth street and'
Lamdowne avenue, over which such a storm
of protest arose that Judges Barratt and
Davis granted tho. meeting for a rehearing.
The' spectators heard direct statsMsnu :
made that wero new to the court sfewkma,
Thfy heard Dennis repeat hla charges, that '
Glbboney told him the case was "nxed" be-t
rore the license was granted; they hesijl
Judge Barratt, aroused by DennVs stated
ments., quli him repeatedly, and they sheard -Olbboney
call Dennis "a confessed hyps-
cr'lte. a blackmailer and a liar." ' "
J987 WANT SALOON "" ,
But' the- big' surprise, following' the CHv
boney-Dcrtpls .clash; came when' conns). fr
Burj (lied a petition, containing tine naotM
of '3987 residents of the Thirty-fourth' Ward
In favor of the Baloon. Thev Ifff ih' m .
n silence hon 'the court held the, case
under" advisement. , ' - ''
,lt was after the temperance .folk hd
closed their case that the pr'elimliMry 'ysr-'
,by .Glljboney, defending .hlmeelf 'and1 d
ngunclnr Denhls,sterted-'' A. ,
Glb'bone s'ttpped;.'! Hhe'-f ki said
to udge Barratt, v''i pUggist thi .Deonls
bo'cs.llea aftersTcmrfe15'Tfb'hS.Vmade.
Hj,refrred to th? charges that Gibboney
had assured' hfm the case, was "flxed.' 'f
jydge Bap-alt turned tw. DsfHiis,' 'fYss.
you havo said so. much, why, nsthhHg' if .
.uay? . t
Dennis then wentjto the witness Bland.
"f went to Clbboney." ho Bald.. "an4 s .
stalled: 'Well, Dennis, X see y6ur name bit
tho top of the remonstrance list. I thought'
you were neutrals The license is' going to
bo; granted, Th, court . has, it ftxsd.' t
told him' that .1. didn't' see how the court
could conscientiously grant the Hesnssv,.,
Ho repeated, 'Jt .has been fixed. If thi "
license is granted, they will take care of
you.'
"Who7" asked Judges Barratt and Davis, .
rising from the)r seats on the. bsnsh as
they, like tho hundreds in the oourt .room;
understood the "they" 'as 'meaning ythe
court ,
"The lquor dealers,'' replied' DennU. , , .
"Oh." came the relieved whispers fror'
thocroyded court room., "' 'i
"I told Olbboney," continued Dense,"tlmt n
Corftlnued an fare Blr. C4 9m
-' "i , , ,i .. i
SLEUTHS SlMSHvIKMftf
.BREAK UP DOPE PJTf
Two Pretty NGirl8 ,Partfcipurti t
in Alleged Snimng,, Be :p
Ibuntyernpn Strisk '
PUBLIC MAY HAVE TO PAY DEARLY FOR COAL
WASHINGTON, Nov. S, Fears that tho prlvato consumer 18 going topay
heavily for hla coal this winter were expressed here today by Government agents
investigating tho threatened fuel faniljic, A rush of wholesale buying by large
industrial concerns in all sections, in fear of a shortago, lift injected an unexpected
menace Into ttio situation. Manufacturing concerns, it waa stated, aro not, enly
making largo sjot purchases, but aro tylntr up all iho fuel they cap on long-tern
contracts. Tho fear was cxprc&Med that oven should tho shortago ot car's bo rolleved
the present tactics of Industrial Interests-wilt keep coal prices at lilgh levels for
some time to come.
ACTOR HELD FOR BLACKMAILING BANKER
NEW VOKK, Nov. 3. J. J. Klein, u. wealthy Baltimore banker, caused the arrest
today of Gcorgo UubIi, an1 actor of this city, on a, chargo ot obtaining $19,000 in
cash by blackmail. It Is claimed yusli and two companions) surprised, and held UP
Klein In un Jl'nu"0 c'ty hotel in the prcsencOl at a woman. Tho complaint names
Ed Donahuo, now pndcr arrest at the Tombs, as ono of Bush's companions? Thf
three impersonated Federal ofllgers, .If is charged.
, t
"' n i i iii-'iwihiii.iii-.i !
BETTORS DIFFER ON' LENGTH. OF HUGHES ODDS - l :
NEV YCinK, Nov 1 lleporta on betting odds ..varied widely today, ,wKh wA
treat waircrlnir'inore In Hughes' favor than the uptown bettina. B '' '
ported that pdds on Hughes were from 10 to 1 to 16 to q&, htle Demdcrtlt sW
the prevailing rate was lp,U'.and 10 te 8 or Wuh, Th sbmwib irfapl fpiiiBul
to have rauen oh, comifutrH etM4Mim(; vty awui fs,vusrWMUi MMIsisSty,
( ' ' '
FATHER AND SON HELD IN HUGJB COUNTJMFimT PfcOT
JJKW; yQPK, Novt ir-fP RusssllsOtaii John 'JCtilft of VfiMWy. Mm usld
twiaf m sttt-al ftfura 1 wis of tbe bWt HiMristlnj pm it'rmtn, ' 8ri
sslccHUW'Siir UitM wsMtn u'r 0'W bOte. foAt$mmv ww,ttltM.
siw w1 Mw- - im pn4mmittibt u. wmm Ot
foral4 rwMMSur, im bommt, s was swppeff, iwywsn ws vy um mmm Mir
to MM), WW IMU4 MHU Pftfl H Ui Mf
.',
; GLUJtDS TAKK ttAL SUKLLS INTO WAR GAME
CAM THWART,, El l'aso, T., Nov, 3-Th Ktrst 1'snnsylvanUt Artillery
cmw os to the fluid has t pari iclimte in the war gmmu of the division with rstf
hrapasl absll. Major W. It. iuibdln, tt ruir army lostructor, diaoovvM
Um dual Just m th g un dK ra UU fmm fW H
Uw IMM iiytiiM mUM9Ut MMMQftm' n
av.i ' "- i
A "herein party" In, .which, two
young glrjs were a'lUjged' partlejnts 'M
Interrupted today when oily dsteothrsa and
internal revenue pmoww smwtea sown ai
door pt a room M the ttyrd ftow of, 10
Mount "Vernon street, amlotynsosfd lrg
qusntules or tablets ana powder, allsgsd
to be heroin and eeostiu' " Ttwamap r4r
Icks, alias 'tPatterson Tom,'' alteMl t b
the proprietor of the, pteee, wk Stirested
on the KccuiwtM of being a daslsr la
narcotic drugs in viMattob ef Uh Marrlson
act Ue was Itetd In e0 baU by UaiU4
States' Commissioner Ixms;. -
Itatph Oyler, special IsfWaal iwvwsjmv
agent, andCty DeUotlves Jfart and Wafefr
went trouH the, hpuas at.le aft, Vsruoa
street Is tiearck of VrederMw. They hrd
ioiwis en the third, noor aad listened a '
Uw dor of ft rptr rtxuv. ilTroni within the
room easjis. Us lujnsistaJutble sooud at
penMwa aun fmtlm
Then tM jtetsMrfMbrok into the roasa,
'Whs Vt4mfrm was. arresud he M a.
Ht - tmw aW4J,T hAvent . bees
see tfce poor devils' j suffer"' The HarrWtC"'
at prove- mm to t iyls
str uMnrt,n'M mm MNfff
THE
mi
Wm'
Muii rleei
US ut.
fefEa
xMMvnrnmms
IfiUee.'
