A
HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRESo
" t-,
USBEST IISHT-PASI WHKLY IN KBNTUGKY
. THIS .
TORMENTING
RHEUMATISM
fa caaifiaf iiiTm
csaktlkrUteisy
Scott's
Emulsion
It sukw sot Umi h
atari's way.
, tni, Mark
U year
1PW
F -
OiL
ii- V Y
Alwy Shan
Inferior Substitute '
4u.f inveniam viam, aut faciam.
Volum. XXXII. Numbtr 10.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
M. F. CONLEY, Publisher
BIG
Sandy
N
VERDICT MADE IN
THE HOLT
TWO TO TEN YEARS IMPRISON
MENT FOR KILLING WIL
V' LIAM DAVIS.
.. The Jury In the case of Wobb Holt
killing Wm. Devla rendered a man.
. aughter verdict Umt Friday,- fixing the ' 'Publican National Committee'! Cam
penalty at two to ten Years lii the i.n. ..Pa-lgn Committee. Every preconceived
Herniary. A motion fur new Irlnl W(Ui
over ruled, but a stay of judgment of
sixty days Waa granted to give the de-
lenaani time to appeal.
Court then adjourned, after continu
ing all criminal cases until the Febru
ary term.' '
A called term was arranged for, to
begin November 2H, Only civil cases
will be tried. A petit Jury waa drawn
for the term, but no grand Jurv. About
10 Jury cases have been docketed for
the special term.
THE POLITICAL OUTLOOK.
There has been a decided trend to
President Wilson in almost every State
for two weeks or more. The New York
Herald and the Cincinnati Enquirer,
w(tb their big a I raw votes, admit that
this is true. On the trains In the ho-1 "wum mom uuiwi imni nii-
tela, almost everywhere straw voteeVota " to a,'uwa t0 lne Patriotism of ;ed was the release of a happy secret
are bin, i.k.n u n'-.. 1. ,.-. ,be People.-, I When the guests had found their placet
are being taken and Wilson is the fa
vorite In almost every instance,
president Wilson was In Cincinnati
last Friday aa the guest of the Business I
Men Club, a woman' organization
nd an affair at Music Hall. He made
three non-pollllcaJ speeches and the
city went wild about him. All the straw
volea show Ohio to be largely for him.
West Virginia will return a demo
cratic majority all the way through the
national and state race. Tim meth
ods practiced In Mingo and Mel)., well
Counties by which the voters are rob
bed of their votes will be prevented this
time. It is said. Ureenway Hatfield, a
brot :r of the Governor, managed to
wiggle out on the trial of an indictment
for having a part In these frauds, but
ths rotten facta were made public thru
the trial. It Is doubtful whether men
with less barking and Influence and
money, will take chances this year on
serving In prison for crimes of this
kind.
Indiana and New York are In doubt,
but a decided trend to Wilson Is re
ported all during the laat two weeks,
Wisconsin and Michigan indicate
Wilson majority. Several of the Wee-
, tarn States normally Republl can will
certainly give Wilson their electoral
Totes. .
Illinois seems to be In the Hughes
column unless the woman give Wilson
a birge plurality of their votes.
The set! ma tea from conservative
sources give the Senate to the Demo
crats, but the House is figured to be
close.
New York. October !. That Char
les Evans Hughes "cannot be sure of a
Ingle state went of the Alleghany
Mountain" was the sulmtaure of a
cheering report brought to Democratic
campaign headquarters to-day by I'nlt
ed States Senator Wllla'rd Saulabury.
of lelawure. Senator Saulsbury said
he found the West "simply ablaze fur
Wilson."
ELECTION RETURNS TO BE
RECEIVED AT COURT HOUSE.
.Arrangements have been made thru
the efforts of Edgar Austin and Harry
Q. Wellman. local manager of the Wee
tern Union Telegraph Co., whereby full
and complete election returns will be
received and read at the county court
house, starting at the close of the polls
on election day. No doubt the general
public will be Interested In the outcome
of the presidential campaign, and all
will be present. These returns will be
furnished Just as received and will be
free of partisanship.
RUN 'EM OUT. .
A band of Olpsy vagabonds have
been traveling through this cnanty the
' past week making nuisances of them
selves. The women are Insolent and
forward, and the men Impudent. The
authorities) should arrest the bunch or
run them out of the county. They are
natural thieves and hold-ups.-Cyn-thlana
Democrat.
MOVED TO LOUISA.
XT. it. Hammond moved his family
on Tuesday from Jattlo, this county, to
Louisa Into one of Wm. Justice's hous-
es on Perry-st. He Is coming here to
give his children the benefit of the
snhoola ,
THREE MILE BRIDGE.
The deed from the C. A O. for the
bridge crossing the river at Three Mile
Is now In the hands of J. H. Northup,
who will deliver It as soon as me guar
antors do their part. It Is to be used
as a free wagon and foot bridge.
ENTERTAINED IN ASH LAN Dr
Complimenting ths guests of Mrs.
Wallace Johns, of the Virginia Apart
ment, Miss Palrlee Davis gave a very
delightful luncheon at the Ventura Ho
teL in Ashland, on Monday, when cov
en were laid for Miss Opal Spencer,
Mis Clara, Bromley, of Louisa, Mrs.
Wallaes Johns and Mrs. Taylor Johns.
w W. A. Holt cams up from Ceredo,
w va. Saturday for a few days' visit
. ' Ha and his wife moved,
in Csredo a few veexs ago from near : called at Blaine Saturday, November
Rusaarrlll. They ars very much pleas-1 11, lilt, for the purpose of electing; of
frT.,,. ,neir new location. In the I fleers, for next year. Everybody urged
smrliur thT expect to visit their 'to be present, as we mean for this) to
Iml the Rev. Dav1 Holt and family al bs a ueeesa.
SwaatoV Ohio, and will move to their j O. B. SWRTNAM. Pres.
f O after th.y return. J. I HHWXJSTT, B.
REPUBLICAN PAPER 8AY8 IT
LOOKS BAD FOR HUGHE8.
Following la from the Cincinnati En
quirer: New York, October JO. The Evening
Telegram, which la the afternoon edi
tion of the Herald, (Republican) to-day
printed the followInK:
"Although every effort la being made
to conceal the elate of feeling- that pre
vail at Republican national headquar
ters, It Is known that the campaign
managers are bordering on a panic,
and so desperate do they feel to-day
that they are at u loss aa to which way
to turn. Thla waa the admlaslon of the
arrangement 'l'r tn0 cloalng of the cam-
paign has had to be changed and the
S. O. 8.' signs that are coming in from tant event, but there were only whls
overy Republican state in the Middle per of anything along this line. After
West have the campaign managers In i dinner there was music and happy con
despair. I vernation, and the entire affair was
"Charles 8. Hatfield, Chairman of the ' much enjoyed.
Ohio State Republican Committee, nasi On Friday afternoon Miss Agnes Ab
sent a telegram to national headquar-1
' t"r ,Bmttntll"f that 21 apeakera of na-
tlonal reputation be sent Into that state
to remain there this week, and he al-1
so has Insisted that none but that kind (Roberts. Lou Chatlin, Vivian Hayes,
of orators be sent to him. Helen Vinson; Jennie and Sue Brom-
"The fact that Theodore Roosevelt Is ley, Emma Vaughan, . Irene MUlender
to go into the state also Is taken by p- and Jean Fitch.
lltlcal observers to mean that the sttua- 1 The decorations were suggestive of
Hon Is so' desperate that the Republl-' Halloween and were very tastefully nr
cans are going to take a chance of los- ranged. Refreshments were among the
Ing the German-American vote In or
der to make a drive to gain the labor;
" "We can be no worse off without the
German -American vote than we are 1
m,w'
said one of the campaign man-Une
agers. "It Is a desperate chance to take, 1
but we must take It. Our hope Is that
the (lermun -Americans will be so in
tensely against 1 'resident 'Wilson that
they will overlook what Roosevelt says,
and be guided by the speeches that
Hughes will make In that state.'
"Another .matter that is worrvins- the :
Republlcans Is that not at any time dur mn "unty a Man. it la
Ing the camiialgn has Thedore Roose- j hardly necessary to add that the oc
vell predicted the election of Hughes. ' ou,'"n WB" a happy one.
Even on his return from his last West-! n Saturday afternoon Miss Shirley
em trio the best that Roosevelt would
say to give the Republicans encourage- ,
ment was that the Situation was better!"' M'ss MUlender. The guests were
than It was a fortnight before. One who I the Sewing Club and a few others.Doc
came from Chicago with Roosevelt and orutlnn were appropriate and attract
who enjoys the latter' s confidence, told ,v- The refreshments served were ful-
a friend that he regarded the states of
Wisconsin. .Ml eh I ran- Indiana and Ohio
as Irretrievably
lost to the Republl-
cans."
Ypjar fu,Eryy- CHURCH
Work on the new M. E. Church South
w .rreuiK incmyi I ne weuinrr nui
been favorable and there has been no
delay on account of material. We have
Intended heretofore mention the
a l
that J. S. Scott and his partner, Mr.
Matter cut the corner stone free. They
did a flrst class Job
THE BLAINE FAIR
WAS A SUCCESS
PROMOTERS WILL TAKE STEPS
TO HAVE COUNTY FAIR
NEXT YEAR.
Our live stock fair held at Blaine
Saturday, October 28, 1I6, was bless
ed with Ideal weather, the crowd was
very large and the order waa tif the
best. Everybody expressed themselves
as being greatly surprised, as the fair
waa greatly beyond their expectations.
and all declared is to be a grand suc
cess. There was a large display of live
stock.
George Hitndley, Jrcmea Woods and
Charlie Flannery were appointed to
Judge the live stock. The following is
list of the prize winners:
Registered 8hort Horn Csttls.
Jesse Young, bull first; J. L. Hew
lett, bull second.
Jesse Young, cow first; M. B. Sparks,
cow second.
Jesse Young, heifer calf first; M. B.
Sparks, bull calf first; T. K. Segraves,
bull calf second.
Grsd 8hort Horns.
Monroe Moore, cow first; T. K. Se
graves. heifer first.
Registered Hereford Cattle.
O. B. Swetnam, bull first; M. M. Wal
ter, bull second.
M. M. Walter, cow first.
O. B. Swetnam, bull calf flrst.
Graded Hereford.
Aaron Moore, two year heifers, first
and second. -
Duroo Hogs.
Rufus Stambaugh,- first. . .
... 1 Horses, ."-
Walter Stambaugh, spotted colt, one
year, first.
Monroe Moore, colt, one year, first.
Three Year Olds.
Jesse Young, 1 three year old colt,
first; Noah Segraves, 1 three year old
colt, second.
R. T. Berry, sucking colt, first,
E. F. Williams, I year old lack, first.
W. M. Chapman, stallion, first
Henry Preece, saddle mare, first.
Herbert Hewlett, best all round horse
firs: Harvey Freeca, best all round
horse, second.
John Holbrook, fastest running horse,
first, Lee Diamond Rider; Fred Steel,
fastest running horse, second.
It waa decided that Illajne was the
proper place to have the county fair
prop
next
year and there will be a meeting
MISS LUCY MILLENDER.
DINED AND FETED.!
Miss Lucy MUlender, of Cyrus, W.
Va., formerly of Louisa, waa the honor
guest at three very happy events here
laat week. The first waa a aix o'clock
dinner given by Miss Jennie Bromley
on Thursday, at which the following
were present:- MlHHea Lucy MUlender,
Ethel Roberta Lou Chatlln, Elizabeth
Conley, Vivian Hayes, Celesta See,
Clara Bromley, Helen Vinson, Agnes
Abbott and Emma VauKhan. The din
ing room waa tastefully decorated and
a moat delicious turkey dinner was
served In four courses. The favors
were crocheted baskets containing can
dy hearts. There was a bride's cake,
and the place card at the honor guest's
; plate was suggestive of an all-lmpor-
bott gave a sewing party In honor of
Miss MUlender, The other guests were
Misses Shirley Burns, Rebecca Lackey,
Dorothy Wood, Elizabeth Conley, Ethel
enjoyable features of the occasion, but
the most Important thing that happen'
"round the table In the dining room
'hey were bidden by the hostess to pull
yellow ribbons found by their
plates. This brought to each guest a
card announcing the engagement of
MIhs Lucy MUlender to Dr. William
iTIco, of Welch, W. Va. The wedding
is to take place Nov. 29th. Then fol
lowed the usual excitement, congratu
lation, good wishes, and Jolly discus
sln ' the Interesting event. Miss Viv-
Burns brought to a climax the round
of P'uure planned by Louisa friends
,y UD to the reputation of the Burns
home for the best in this line. There
was not a dull moment during the af
ternoon. Everybody entered into the
spirit radiated by the hostess, and nl-
tuiKeiner 11 was a very aeugnwui anatr.
(Irene Minnw of Pvro. w v mi.
j'ajrlee Davis, of Hopklnsville, Ky.;
mi.. wiiii T of Ivint-to,,-
Misses Agnes Abbott, Julia D. Snyder,
Victoria Oarred. Mrs. K. V. (iarreil
Mrs. R. L. Vinson, Mrs. Wm. Mordlca,
Mrs. M. F. Conley, Mrs. B. E. Adams
REV. McEL DOWNEY'S FATHER-IN-LAW
DIES OF PARALYSIS.
Tho friends of Rev, L E. McEldown
ey and wife will regret to hear of a sad
event that happened In their family u
few days ngo. They were visiting Mrs.
McEldowney's parents at Davis, West
a., the occasion being the celebration
of tho 60th anniversary of the marriage
of the venerable couple. During the
ceremonies of this affair the futhcr was
stricken with paralysis and died the
next day. Thus a very happy occasion
wns suddenly turned Into one of deep
sorrow. , The sympathy of Louisa
friends Is extended to the family.
COPELAND DENIES HE
KILLED BLACK.
Galveston, Tex., Oct. 28. John Cope
land, banker, on trial charged with
killing William Black, an anti-Catho-Ho
lecturer In Marshall, Texas, Feb
ruary 3, 1915, took the witness stand
to-day and denied he shot Black.
He declared the only shot fired was
directed at Clarence H. Hall, the lec
turer's agent, and said he did not know
who killed Black. After three other
witnesses had been examined the de
fense rested.
The Jury' acquitted Copeland.
, WINS A MEDAL.
Miss Klzzle Clay Burns, of this place,
has won a medal for proficiency In mu
sic, In the school she Is attending at
Cincinnati. Violin Is the Instrument on
which she specializes and which
brought her the medal. This Is a story
that never grows old to Big Sandlans
their young people winning laurels In
Competition with the "outside world."
They do it with a delightful regular
ity. Miss Klzzie Is a popular girl at
home and abroad and we are glad to
hear of her success.
MOVED TO CLARKSBURG, W. VA.
Mrs. T J..hllllpsl.and children left
Wednesday for Clarksburg, West Va.,
where they will reside. They are good
people and we are sorry to lose them.
Mr. Phillips has located there as man
ager of a coal company.
HALLOWEEN PARTY.
A number of young folks enjoyed a
Halloween party at the home of Miss
Eleanor Meloy on Tuesday evening.
Muslo and a candy pulling ware the
chief diversions of the evening.
CHURCH DINNER.
The ladles of the M. E. Church serv
ed a dinner on Tuesday evening at the
horns of Mr. and Mrs. O. C. Atkins
which was a very nice affair and well
patronised.
Ths Woman's Missionary Society of
ths M. E. Church, South, met on Tues
day afternoon with Mrs. M. F. Conley,
and th. sewing women' of the church
met Wednesday afternoon with Mrs. W.
la JTergw"'
mm ill
AT
ON SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4TH,
HE. WILL CLOSE THE CAM
PAIGN HERE.
The State Committee has notified
Chairman Stone that Hon. H. V. Mc
Chesney will speak at Louisa on Sat
urday, November 4th, in the afternoon,
at 1 o'clock or 1:30.
Ho will speak at Palntsville Friday.
Mr. McChe&ney needs no Introduc
tion to the people of Lawrence coun
ty. He has spoken here three or four
times since he became prominent In
politics nearly twenty years ago. He
has been State Superintendent of
Schools and Secretary of Stats of Ken
tucky and has a clean record. He was
the contending candidate for the Dem
ocratic nomination for Governor last
year. ' -. '
As a speaker he ranks aa one of the
best. He waa the only campaigner who
worried Senator Bradley during the
last big campaign In which the latter
participated.
Tell your neighbors to come to Lcti
lsa that day and hear him. He is a 1 vs
wlra, ..
PROMINENT REPUBLICAN
WILL SUPPORT WILSON.
Garfield' Son.
Wllliamstown, Mass., Oct. 27. Son of
a martyred Republican president, and
fully mindful both of the teachings and
the ties that should bind him to the
party that placed his father In the
white house, Harry A. Garfield, son of
ex-President James A. Garlleld. will
icast his vote for Woodrow Wilson.
"This Is no time to play politics,
Garfield declared to-day. '
"This Is a time only for the moNt
thoughtful, conscientious, sober action
on the part of every voter. The best
Interests of the nation and the world,
not of the party, must guide us.
"During the next four years, as per
haps never before, we will need In the
white house a man of vision and of ex
perlence.
"President Wilson has both.
"His labors In those four years have
fitted him with experience, as no other
man Is fitted, to meet the demands of
International readjustment that the
next four years are sure to bring.
"I know President Wilson. I know his
fine characteristics as a man. All these
things combined give me absolutely no
ground to stand on except to support
him for re-election.
"I don't care how much some people
may try to decry the fact, the b: re
suit of Wilson's administration s that
he has kept us out of war and with
honor! . :
"We are not afraid of war. Thut has
been amply demonstrated.
"Our greatest work is to bring 'he
people of the warring nations togeth
er In the Interest of humanity.
"And President Wilson Is the man
best qualified to lead in that tremen
dous task.
"There is also a domestic situation
of equal Importance that demands Wil
son's re-election.
"We have reached a dividing point
In domestic affairs with regard to the
relations of capital and labor.
"Wilson sees this, and by his acts
has evidenced his understanding boih
of the problem and Its solution.
"I do not wish to criticise Himlrs,
and I do not. But I do not believe the
people of the United States are ready
to set the precedent of using the su
preme court as a political stepping
stone to the presidency."
RALLY DAY AT ASHLAND.
SundayOctober 22, was Rally Day
at the Centenary church in Ashland.
The Independent says:
As a special feature, a most pleasing
and Interesting address was made by
W. J. Vaughan, Field Worker for the
State Sunday School Association. Mr.
Vaughan told of the Sunday school
work from the formation of the flrst
school down to the present time.
-The improvement in the Sunday
school work at this church and the In
creased attendance and the greater
manifestation of Interest shown, is high
ly gratifying to the officials, and the
members of tho church.
The Mexico Record.
Phoenix, Ariz., October SO. Senator
Robert L. Owen, of Oklahoma, In a
speech here to-day, replied to state
ments of Theodore Roosevelt, on his
recent Western campaign tour, that
during President Wilson's administra
tion "over 500 Americans and S00
Chinese" have been killed In Mexico.
'Mr. Roosevelt's promises are un
true," declared Senator Owen. "Under
Roosevelt's own administration at least
80 Americans were reported killed; un
der Taft 67 Americans; under Wilson
11 citizens and 38 soldiers and marines
during nearly four years of revolution.
During Taft's administration S86 for
eigners were reported to the State De
partment as killed In Mexico, and dur-
ng Wilson's administration only 230
were reported, Including 17 British, 38
Spaniards, 4 Germans, 4 Japanese and
7 Chinese.
"Roosevelt's statement that the Pres
ident had abandoned 3.000 Americans
exposed to a mob at Tampico Is a base
campaign canard and calumny."
Oeorga Mauser entertained several
boys and girls on Tuesday evening with
Halloween party at the home of his
',' ' " I
HON. JOHN C. DUFFY
8POKE HERE FRIDAY,
Gen. Logan could not All his appoint
ment at Louisa last Friday, but bis able
assistant, Hon. John C. Duffy, came in
i his stead and proved a most acceptable
substitute. He had a good sized au
dience and was given the closest atten
tion. Frequent and hearty applause
greeted the many telling points he
made. He went right to the bottom of
the present political battle by stating
and proving that the greatest differ
ence, the only essential difference, be
tween the Democratic and Republican
parties to-day Is the demonstrated fact
that the former legislates for the mass
es, the great common people and the
business men who have heretofore been
hampered and shackled by trusts and
"big business," while the Republican
party Is organized and financed and
used by rich men to get greater pow
er and more riches. He said the Repub
lican leaders knew years ago that a
new banking and currency law was one
of the crying needs of the country, but
they could not enact one because their
rich masters did not want It, preferring
to control the country's finances and
credits. The Republican party knew
the farmers should be given the oppor
tunity to borrow money for longtime
and at low interest with their farms as
Becurlty, but the big money powers did
not want it done and therefore It was
not done. The party knows a high
protective tariff Is not in the Interest of
any one except the manufacturers, but
the campaign funds come largely from
that source, and therefore the party
tries to fool the voter Into thinking It
Is a good thing. They claim It Is for
the benefit of the laboring man, but you
never saw a tariff law In your life that
set aside the working man's share for
him. He gets as little as the manufac
turer can hire him for, and must strike
for any Increase he receives.
Mr. Duffy is an Assistant Attorney
General, assigned to special work. He
Is a native of West Virginia, but has
been located In Hopklnsville, Ky., ever
since he left college. He spoke at Wil
llamson, W. Va., on Saturday.
WEEK OF PRAYER.
The Woman's Missionary Society, M.
E. C, S., Louisa, will observe the week
of prayer set apart by the Woman's
Missionary Council, November 5-11.
Monday the meeting will be held at
the home o f.Mrs. M. G. Berry, Tues
day, Mrs. Wm. Queen, Wednesday Mrs.
C, B. Walters, Thursday Mrs. James
Woods. Friday the young people's so
ciety will have charge of the program
and Saturday the Juniors. The meet
ings will begin promptly at two p. m.
A cordial Invitation Is extended to all
to attend.
MRS. F. T. D. WALLACE, Pres.
MRS. T. W. SHANK, Secy.
Quite a number of Louisa people at
tended the stock fair held at Blaine
last Saturday.
OHIO RIVER DAM
AT LAST COMPLETED
LOCK No. 29, NEAR ASHLAND, IS
TURNED OVER TO GOV
ERNMENT. .
Ohio River Lock and Dam No. 29,
near Ashland, Ky,, which has been In
course of construction for approximate
ly five years, was completed by the
contractors Saturday ; and formally
turned over to the Government. .
Under direction of Captain F. W.
Buell, Assistant Engineer, who has been
in charge of the work, 300 feet of the
wickets were raised, leaving 400 feet of
clearway toward tho Kentucky shore.
The 400 feet of remaining wickets will
be raised this week, but this will be
done In small sections so as not to In
terfere with navigation above and be
low the dam.
With the completion of the dam. what
is said to be the worst stretch of the
river between Pittsburg and Cairo will
be made safely navigable.
This Is of special Importance to the
Big Sandy river, as It Is now possible
for the first time for craft to get in and
out of the mouth of our river. The lock
In Big Sandy at Catlettsburg has not
heretofore been of much use because at
low water stages it was Impossible to
get to tho pool from the Ohio or out of
the pool to the Ohio.
A STORK DONATION PARTY.
Lexington, Ky. A six pound boy
and two girls welghllg four and five
pounds respectively were born to Mrs.
W. A. Swift Sunday morning at her
home on the Versailles pike. Mother
and babes were doing well, but the
blow almost killed father. Mrs. Swift
Is the wife of the Rev. W. A. Swift, an
associate editor of the Central Meth
odic Advocate, and a traveling min
ister. The Louisa Baking company, which
Is doing a fine business at Louisa, Ky.,
near this city, la establishing a large
trade In the city of Williamson. They
have their regular delivery automobls
here which Is bringing an Inoreaalng
trade. The manager, Mr. B. E. Adams,
Is here often and Is winning the good
-opinion of our people. Ws wish this
new business In our olty suooeaa.
Williamson News.
Oarred Wilson has traded a house
and lot In the "Italy" addition of Lou
isa to Grover See for a farm on Lick
creek, and Mr. See's family has moved
from Lock-av. to the "Italy" property.
John Ratcllfr and family will occupy
the waiter cam property vacated, by
tbeoa on Look-av,
REV. SHANNON INTERVIEWED .
BY A BROOKLYN NEWSPAPER.
The following Is the result of an ef
fort on the part of a Brooklyn Eagle re
porter to Interview Rev. F. F. Shannon
on a subject he did not want to talk
about:
That the First Congregational church
of San Francisco, which pays a salary
of J 10,000 a year, has been looking to
ward Brooklyn to furnish a successor
to Doctor Charles F. Aked, formerly of
the Fifth Avenue Baptist Church, New
York City, and latterly of the Ford
Peace Commission, as pastor of that
strong and influential church, became
I known here last Week. Reports were
current that : the Rev. : Frederick F.
j Shannon', pastor of the Dutch Reform
ed Church on the heights, was going to
I San Francisco soon to study the field
1 with a view to accepting the pastorate.
But when an Eagle reporter called at
Mr. Shannon's home, 196 Columbia.
Heights, the Brooklyn preacher was
willing to discuss almost any other
topic
"Is It?" . ' . .'
"It Is very true Indeed," he broke In,
before the question had been asked,
"that I witnessed one of the ragged
est double-headers Saturday Brooklyn
and Chicago ever played. If we're go-1
Ing to win the pennant, at the rate the
Giants and Phillies are going, there's
got to be less cross-lota' playing. Do
you know why we lost that first game
Saturday?" he asked, with a wave of
his hand. I'll tell you why Jake Dau
bert was not playing first, and "
"But I'm not seeking a baseball in
terview just now," said the reporter.
"I have come to And out something
definite about the report that "
' "Never pay too much attention to
reports," he broke In again. "Very few
people are made wiser by reports. And
sometimes reports may be very discon
certing, even shocking. It was Just an
unfounded report that gave me the
shock of my life last Friday afternoon.
Driving my car to the garage, a man
ran up to me and asked 'Did you know
that Dr. Hillls was seriously injured in
a subway wreck.' I almost broke the
speed limit getting around to his home
In Monroe place. When his daughter
met me at the door I asked, all excite
ment, 'Is your father seriously hurt?'
'Hurt? she replied, eyeing me aa If she
thought I was a fit subject for Bellevue.
'What do you mean? Why here's fath
er coming down the stairs now.' It
seems that a lady waa quite seriously
injured In leaving a subway train at
Borough Hall. Dr. Hillls went to her
assistance, and now, mark your report
had it that the famous Plymouth pas
tor was seriously Injured. Even re
porters should beware of reports," he
added, smiling.
The reporter's goal seemed to be
steadily receding. "By the way," he
continued, before the newspaperman
could take another tack,: "I received an
interesting communication from the
circulation department of The Eagle
this morning. Now is a good time to
answer it The paper wants to know
what I think of the Monday sermon
pages. Well, that is a fascinating topic
to me, and one that I have discussed
all over the country. This summer I
found ministers in the Middle West and :
South who are constant readers of the
Monday sermon edition. Over in Penn
sylvania I was the guest of a Rotary
Club. The man sitting next to me said:
'Mr. Shannon, my father knows you
through the Monday Eagle.' I suppose,
then, that your father is a minister.'
'No, not at all, was his matter-of-fact
reply. 'Father is just a wide-awake lay
man.' And there you have It in a nut
shell." "Then you have nothing to say"
"Nothing to say?" he exclaimed. "On
the contrary, I have much to say. For
example, I saw large spaces In the
Middle West in August. Surely any
man who has been In Kansas, Iowa,
Nebraska, Missouri, Illinois, Ohio, Kea- '
tucky, West Virginia and later Penn
sylvania, and has nothing to say, is
deaf, dumb and blind. Nothing to say?
I shall never finish talking about it all.
I saw cornfields In' Iowa so big that "
For five minutes he talked about the
monstrosities of the West. When he
paused for breath the reporter asked:
"Did you go to San Francisco this
summer, Doctor Shannon?
"No, Indeed," he answered emphati
cally. , ' .-'-
"Are you acquainted In San Fran
cisco?" ("Very slightly. I know Doctor Josiuh
Sibley, pastor of a large Presbyterian
church there, and his wife, daughter ef
my old teacher, Professor William R.
Webb, of Bellebuckle, Tenn."
The Interviewer was rising to go.
"By the way, Doctor Shannon, have
any telegrams passed between San
Francisco and Brooklyn during the past -week?"
"Dozens, I reckon. I should think
that between cities of so much Impor
tance, with so many commercial and
other Interests, many messages would
pass dally. No matter what reports
may or may not be, I have no Inten
tion of going there to live. What's
the matter with Brooklyn? I came
when a youngster. The people learned
to bs patient with ma then, and they
have practised that fine old virtue ever
since. The truth is, I wouldn't like to
move away from Brooklyn, or at least
the Greater New Tork section, for any
ohuroh."
THE POTATO CROP.
The Irish potato crop Is very short
In th United States. It was almost a
failure In the great northern potato'
district. Lee Oarred, of this county,
has 700 bushels for sale, for which he
can probably get at least 11000 on the,
present market.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
Ernest Thompson, If, to Anna Bona,
Howard Burt, It, U Pearly Kitch
en. L . . ,.
