1 i ml iii II i
Betting on Election Is Heavy All Over the Country
V
Today's Wither FAIR.
ffOTOV
J "Circulation Jiooka Open to AIL'A
" Circulation Sooka Open to All.'l
'PRICE ONE CENT.
Coprritlit, 11)1(1, by The I'mi 1'iibll.litnf
Co. (The .New Vnrk World).
NEW YOR.K, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
2 8 PAtJES
PRICE ONE CENT.
WMML
Gil
BIG BEITW
' BY THE REPUBLICANS TO
INFLUENCE IAYWG OP ODDS
A Even Money Rules at Some of
the Centres Where Wager
ing Is Carried" On.
ONE BET ON WHITMAN.
c
Price on Hughes Higher at
Most Points Odds Favor
Him to Carry New York.
Election bolting odds on tlio curb
In tho financial region to-day held !
steady at 10 to 7 In favor of Hughc.i. I
Odo commissioner, McQu,ud.!, In the
curb market placed 23,000 In various
unia at these rates.
Hushes money appeared to be easily
on tap, aiifl whllo there was Wilson
money displayed demund was mado
for longer odds. Ruling prices wore
. quoted as 10 to C'i nfcUi il mid 10 tn 7
offered. ,
Much c infusion pievulls in election
betting n.-.d conflicting reports aro
current, not only between lowntown
and uptown Now Voik, but between
) the Metropolis and Western cities.
Democratic politicians who ar( eon
, fldont of tho President's success. In
tlmato that the odds In favor of
i Hughes In Wall Street arc manipu
lated, nnd nre. answered ly Republl
cans saying: "Monoy talks." It In
rumored In the treet th.it the ample
nupply of Hughes money romt i from
the tecret fund of $l.:nn,000 recently
r?Hed (n tho llnnnclal dlxtrU" to pro- j
motc.Hughes'.s interest, which will
not tin account "i I for In olllcl il
reports.
Another explanation wan that Wall
Street oddii reflect the Hughes senti
ment of Now York and other eastern
Btates only ond do not take Into uc-
cpunt tho strong Wilson n-ntlment
In tho West. Reports wcro current
lata in the afternoon that conditions
xo Ehlftlng so that whllo Hughes
may carry eastern States, Wilson is
likely to carry tho' middle West and
bo ablo to win without Now Vorlc
Dow, Jones & Coa Wall Street
ticker made this announcement to
day: , The following wngers aro offered
by a rcsponslblo house la ,ho financial
' district:
125,000 to $20,000 that Wilson does
not carry New York City by llo.ooo.
$10,000 even that Wilson does not
carry Now York City by H'O.OIO,
$10,000 to $12,000 that Wli..)n dors
not carry New Ymk City by i'O.ooo.
$10,000 to $15,000 that Wilson 'low
not carry New York City by 80,000.
$10,000 to $23,000 that W Icon dors
not carry Now York City by 7i','0.
Braall amounta of jieabury monv
are appearing, but bettois want 3 to
1, with 24 to 1 offfied In unlimited
amounta. Odds of 1 to a wern ni.'.rud
that tho President will eirry V.'Ucu.i
sin and of 1 In 4 h w.li i.htv Con
necticut, with no nl;i".. One even
bet of $5,U(j0 was mud ' lh.it Whitman
will carry New York .ttUn by 100.00O.
Tox Rickard at tin.- Waldorf Kiid In
bad tried to net V'llson money ion-rod
at anytlilnir bi-tti-r than lu to 9 and to
to 8. -without success,
"l"don't I .lliivu the opinion down
thcro represent the nfiitlnuni of the
(Continued on lllKh'h l'ase )
RACING
RESULTS ON PAGE 2.
ENTRIES ON PACE 16.
HMD RNSED
n ii n i PTnnni rnr
LO I U HLuC
ends his Plight
at 13mhle clip
In Air Just S Hours and 37
Minutes on Journey From
Chicago to New York.
Victor Carlstrom finished h(s (light
from Chicago to Newf Yok In his
200 horsepower .Curllss military bl
piano at 8.55 o'clock this morning.
Ho lighted llkn n bird on tho big
parado ground of Governor's Island.
1 lu lift Ilnmrnomlsport, N. Y at
C.lo o'clock thin morning and llrst
appeared over tho city at a height of
(,000 feet. At this altitude hn cut
a corner of tho Battery, circled over
a part of llrooklyn and then settled
down" toward Governor's Island.
In his fllifht this morning from
Hamniondsport to Governor' Island,
Carlstrom broko. nil records. Tho
dUtanci1 U approximately 313 miles,
and he niade tho flight at tho rate
of 137 mlls an hour.
IV w persons saw the aviator In
lower New York, but u committed
from tho Aero Club of America, ac
companied by Gen. I.con;td Wood and
Ki-crnl other officers, were waiting
fur 111 in on tho Island. Gen. Wood
wa.i ilm first to greet Carlstrom as
ho stopped out of his machine.
Carlstrom had iniuln tho actual
fllRht In 8 hours and 37 minutes. The
illstanco ho flew was 973 miles and
ho uvcrnged all tho way 110 miles un
hour.
Tho flight was for a prlrn offered by
tho Now York Times und was to havo
been n. non-stop, mall-carrylng Jour
ney from Chicago tn New York be
tween sunrlso and sunsot. That ho
did not conform to tho terms was not
his fault, but wns duo to an accident.
Ills pasollno tnnk was leaking when
ho concluded to drop Into Kilo. , Hut
ho had broken tho non-stop record at
that,' having travelled 652 mllos with
out a break In nix hours, seven and
onn-half minutes.
(llilo Mtiuar 1'lreil, II In Delict t-it,
U u Mrlrnr.
ri'lT.tt .SA.S'lJUHiCr. O., Nov. 3
I'lre, which Is bollt-vfl to have ntnrled
(rem a meteor, destroyed the home ef
W. S Mhimiun In this city Inst night.
The family escaped In their night-clothiM.
An Interview with PRESIDENT WILSON
will be printed exclusively in Next Sunday's WORLD.
lhctPrciidrnt, in bold and sinking phra.s?, tjircs his views
on the things nearest to the heart of the American people;
he discusse3 sharply the "grmt iue to be decided on Nov.
7"; he criticises the drawin? ol distinctions between groups
and classes, and indicates his great trust in the American '
ptople. The:c art; but a lew of the points in the exclusive
interview with the President, which should be read by
every voter.
Otdcr the SUNDAY WOULD from your news
dealer in advance. Edition limited.
M
ILL MAN ENDS LIFE
CLASPING PICTURE
OF BEAUTIFUL W FE
B. L Grafiam Shoots Himself
in Hotel Room Under Ro
mantic Circumstances.
TUBERCULOSIS VICTIM,
Former Associates in Brooklyn
Union Gas Company Clear
Mystery of the Tragedy.
At tho clo!o of a long .truggln with
tuberculosis, It. I.. Graham, formcrl.v
an I'mployeo of tho llrooklyn Union
Gas Company, clasped a picture of
his young &nd beautiful wlfo to his
breast lat night In a room at the
Hotel Iaithniu and xent a bullet
through his brain. The story of his
dovotlon to his wlfo und bis fight for
Ufc. camo to-day from associates In
tho otllco of tho gas company.
They told how Orahani had been
y...co 1911 employed In the Equity
Works of the Itrooklyn Union In Iing
Islnnd C'ty and how IllnoM forced
him o rejurn to M old home at
Pino HI- f, N. C. And then his old
associates clead away tho mystery
of letters "and the plcturo found.
Graham cimc to tho Hotel Latham,
No. i Uast Twenty-eighth Street, two
dny.i ago. I.ate last night, ntter ho
had not been seen for hours, Manager
Max Hoestmann directed a porter to
go to tho room and make Inquiry.
Tho porter opened tho door with
his master-key. On tho bod he found
Grnhani'n lifeless body, llo clasped
tightly the plcturo of his wife. Hy
the bed was an automatic pistol with
one chamber empty.
The photograph showed a remark
ably handsomn young woman In evo
nlng dress. 'Kho was sitting. A string
of pearls hung gracefully about her
neck.
On tho back of tho plrturo was this
Inscription, written by Graham:
"God keep and make happy
this n'H the sweetest and most
wonderful woman In all the
world."
Tho pollen also found In a grip In
tho room a package of letters, signed
"Mary." They were turned over to
the Coroner. Thcro woro also somo
business letters, somo of which asked
for tho payment of money.
Hut a few cents remained In tho
man's pockets.
Friends nt tho offlco of the Gas
Company said Graham had lived at
No. 653 Hcdford Avenue, llrooklyn,
up to threo months ago, when his
Illness, developed such a stago that It
was evident that tuberculosa had
marl(fd,,hlin for a victim.
All of his associates said Graham
was a capable young man, whoso
work was always accurate and whoso
conduct wai beyond qistlon.
YNAMITERS CONFESS
BLOW UP STATIONS
PHOTOGRAPH OF WIFE
FOUND CLASPED TO
SUICIDE'S UllEAST
m
WILSON CONFIDENT
OF HIS RE-ELECTION
Willcox Still Certain Hughes Will
He Hie Winner, but Mas
No Figures.
"Tho tidal wave Is sweeping tho
country for Wilson," tsld Demo
cratic National Chairman McCormlck.
Thcro Is no let up In tho west. All
my reports to-day Indicate that tho
swing Is on. There Is nothing to It
now but tun triumphant reelection
of tho President. It means a sweep.
"President Wilson told me utter
yesterday's wonderful demonstration.-
here In New York Unit ho Is tre
mendously Impressed with tho in
tense, feeling of tho people. lie rt.lhl
that never In all his experience nnd
In seen anything llku It,
Mr. McCormlck again declined to
mako public the figures of polls ho has
taken In a number of States, but - us
Kicked by Postmaster General ltutlo
son In tho conlldont claim that Wil
son will sweep the country. As to tho
tutting odds In Wall .Street, which still
favor Hughes, the Chairman hinted
that thcro was manipulation, and BaJd:
"It would be Interesting to know
whero tho money Is coming from to
bolster up thoao odds."
Chairman Willcox of Republican
National Committee proclaimed oqual
confldenco for his candidate, but like
wise had no facts and figures to glvo
out. Ilo said that hn had had no
K)lls mado of doubtful States and had
not yet received reporta of polls that
may have been mado by State com
mittees. Candidate Hughes will como to town
to-night and upcuk In llrooklyn.
Col. Itoohevelt speaks to-night In
Hunt Houston Ktreet and In Cooper
Union. Candidate Hughes makes a
number of short noonday uppoar
ancvu along liroadway to'-morrow
and closes hlh campaign In Madison
Siiuaro Garden Saturday night.
President WINon's llnal word will
j bo spoken SJ.iturd.iy afternoon at tho
I summer Whitf Housu ulu-n nt' will
receive his fillnw citizens of Niw
Jersey ul an "i.l.l lio:n" day." Giv.
l-'lelder will h .d tin- vis' in,' dirfi.
tions. Tin pru;rimiu' o ,ins ut
o'clock,
$10 Men's 0'coats&Suits,$5.95
Tp "HUQ" Clothing Coiner. IlroaU
way, corner Ilnrclay Klrt.et, oup, Wool,
worth Dulldlna. will sell tu-iluy mii
hiiluiduy 1 Jul) .Men's mil Kull. and Over
coats, bluvks. funcy grnys, biowns nd
dark inlsul, In plain or pinch backs: nil
dlzea, 31 to . Our special pricu to-duy
nnd .Siiturduy. VM mid J4.95, Opvii Hat
nrtlay night till 10. The Hub Clothiers,
llroadwuv. corner Ilnrebiy Htreet. Advt.
' Tin: Mnni.n tic vi:i, hi ni'..r,
.lr cl I'n i(.-r i IN uri.ii llu.nl'iii,
I'l I'trt (.,. ,N t.lj
TI'l.rU. wuiitni ... Irjji. A ' ti til f,
ria.iwi i i-iit-.l .nil .n. ut It .,u-.',i .n
.'riiutM!. .mi'. II. ..g. anl (mmi'I rhi. t r.nm
ein tlj m! tU'ii Tririll.r' . heclia n j m'irn
order Iji uli, Tli;ticDr llttliua tuuv, -Adrt,
: ias
11
1$2,012,535 FOR
G. 0. P-$1 ,31 0,729.
Cleveland H. Dodge's Total
Contribution for Wilson
Now $108,000.
S25,0OO FROM DOHENY.
Frick and Payne Whitney Con
tribute S25.000 Each to
Republicans.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 3. Supple
mental reports filed hero to-day show
tho Republican national campaign
fund totalled $2.0ig15, and the Demo
cratic national campaign fund totalled
J 1,310.720 at tho closo of business
Oct.' 30.
Thu Democratic National Commltteo
reported an additional I30UIC to tho
H.00C.2S3 previously reported and tho
Republican committee reported 3,77s
In addition to tho 11,667,757 previously
acknowledged
Other stntomentn will be filed Ister
showing contributions between Oct. 30
and election.
Tho largest Individual contributors
to tho supplemental Democratic fund
wero Cleveland H. Dodgo of New
York. 129.000. and Kdward I..
Dohenov. 25.000. Mr. Dodgo gave
1103.000 lu all.
Amblig the other largo contributors
wcro Thomas f. Jones and David
n. Jones, Chicago, $12,500 each:
Hogcr C. Sullivan, Chicago. $12,000:
Alvln Unterniyer, New York. Fred
erick C. Penllcld, New York; Charles
.1. Penbody, New York: F. H. Pea-
body, Chicago. $10,000 each: F. It.
Lynch. M. A. Coolldge, Georgn H
Mead, Francis P. Garvun, It. U. Cort-
landt, New York; P. J. Hyan,
Chicago; Frederick Johnson and
James Lewis Taylor, New York, $5,000
each
Supplemental contributions to the
Woodrow Wilson Independent
Leagua slnco Oct. 26, aggrogatlnc'
$5,809, wire also reported to-day
Thn lareest Individual contributor
f was Charles H. Crane, of New York,
$5,000. Total contributions for tho
Lcairuo up to Oct. 30 wero reported
as $40,519, und expenditures and ob
ligations of $10,783.
H. C. Frlck and Payne Whitney
headed tho Republican supplemental
list with $25,000 coon. Other big con
tributions were:
John Grlbbil reported $20,000 from
the Union I.eiiguo Club of Philadel
phia, Union League Club of Now
York, $12,500) C. W. Fairbanks und
,,.. (,. un nnn ,.,,,h. i i-
j.ubuii" -'
Mellon and It. II. Mellon. $6,000 each;
ii-,..n p Pieitman I erov Fror
Herman i.. i unman, i.nuy i roai,
Goorgo R. Sheldon, Robert Walton
fr,ii.t J Horace Harding $5 000
(.oelct, J. Horace uarumi,, o.uuu
each.
I C
$11,362,000,000
FOR DEMOCRATS
Sign of People's Prosperity
WASHINGTON, Nov. 3. Reports of nntlmal ranks' i milltlon un
Sept. Hi, tho Comptroller of tho Currency nnnuunodl ta-day. sluw total
rcsourcos of $1-1,411,000,000, or $21ti,000,0o0 greater than ever b"fire in
the nation's history. This was an Increase of $IS5,00n,00'l over June 30
last, and $2 J 44,000,000 over Sept. 1015. Thu previous high water
mark -as on May t last.
Total deposits amounted to "$11,302,000,000. or t'.27."(J),i(iO greater
'lhau ever before. The Increase was $486,000,000 over Juim 30 and
$2,133,000,01)0 over Sept. 2, 1015. '
Ioans and ditcouutB were $7,859,000,000, the largest amount ever
reported,
MUST TAKE $15,000
LESS FROM BROKER
FOR BROKEN TROTH
?t jesil
CORA WAUDE CLARKE
bUU rUL UAdI O VtnUlbl, idrcd and Tenth Street, at 5 o'clock on the morning of Oct. 25, were ar
$40,000, GUT TO $2S0Q0 ! ralncd in Washington Heights Police Court to-day and held on a felony
Higher Court Lops Slice Off Sum
Martin Was Ordered to I'ay
Cora .Maud Clarke.
Cora Maudo Clarke, who won n
$10,000 verdict In tlm Supremo Court
against John Leon Martin, son of a
wealthy brnkir, In n suit for breach
of promise of marriage, will havo to
be contct with $25 or again go to
trial, according to u decision to-day
In thn Appellate Division of tho Su
premo Court.
Tho ense was commenced In 1912
and was trlejl threo times. Tho ver
dict appealed from was granted
March 3, 1316. In tho action evidence,
was Introduced showing that Martin
in writing to tho plaintiff called her
his "Hootnl llaby."
Tho plalntl.' alleged that Martin
pn nlsed to marry her lu September,
1907, anil thai lu March, 1912, ho mar
ried Miss Maude Kddy.
OWN CHILDREN HIS1uRY.
Tlirrit l.lllle Onen llrrlilr llronUI j-ii
I Muit'n Ciimc In I'ollee Cuiirl.
A Jury of threo llttln children, his
own, dccldfd David WaUh's cusn for
hltr In thu Adtwns Street Police Court,
llrooklyn. to-day. Ills wlfo bad him
arretted for using alui.ilve PmgunKu
Whrn ho was urialgm-d Magistrate
Niiuiner had thu chlldri-n brought to
the "bridge."
"Tour father has been sway a long
time, hasn't he? Da you children want
him back ug.un?" the MagUtiatu i.k.-.l.
TlU'ie was "Yes lr." In a linid. )UkU
rhutw Maglntrate Nhuuht oiopf ndi-d
sentence.
Twi 'prelnl lliiir" Tralnx lu ll
It ti ii Tlirlrr MVi-UI) mi tint ', .V it.
(IAItl.llS'i"N. '. V. .Nv : -orders
IskikkI l.v tli ' he' pi'.'ihe an I Ohio
iliiiunmn iu- nv iinnuuie." win ni-uunn
'i( two KMilal ii.urii. Dociiiiium m-mor
1 ,o. on nnLh wr-on. Pl.n legally
labelled li'iM.r will tn permitted tn
,I(tvc u, t,,...u will move each
Tuesluy. Tlui'luy and Samrliy t--
tween As'il.'a'l Uy-. u'l I'li.nlesion.
ku ,h j,,,.., r nmy cuny uiu ji i-.ue
tilled Mi li'iuor
Bank Deposits
BOMBS FOR
1
AND 59TH STRET PLANNED
SK ARE HELD AS PLOTTERS
t
Strikers Confess Lenox Avenue Dyna
miting Five Prisoners Officers
of Carmen's Union Conspiracy
Hatched in Executive Commit'tep.
EUSE AND CAPS DISCARDED
IN PARK LEAD TO CAPTURE
Six men, four of whom confessed they caused trje explosion of fifty
flVVc nf ifisnimttf Hi citliir elntlnn it I mrw Annn ri Llitn
I charge punishable by twenty years'
officers of tha liiterborough Local, Nt 73 1, of the Amalgamated Union
of Street and b'lectric Railway Employees. The other is a New Jersey
chauffeur.
Three of Ihc prisoners have confessed, they plotted to cause ex
plosions in the Times Square aiidfriftyninth Street stations, but said
they had no intention of endangering the lives of passengers.
District Attorney Swann, on learning through The livening World
of the arrest of the tlynamiters, immediately took personal charge of
the case in his olllcc. Accompanied by Assistant District Attorney Owen
Uohan he went to Police Headquarters for a conference with Commis
sioner Woods and later attended the hearing in Washington Heigh'ts
Police Court.
"if the evidence warrants," said the District Attorney, "I shall bring
this matter before the Grand Jury within twenty-four hours."
There is no evidence-that any of the national officers of the union
had any knowledge of the plot; in fact, it appears to have been con
liucd solely to the men under arrest and perhaps one or two others.
FUNDS FOR PLOT. OA TIIERk'D BY STRIKERS.
The funds financing the plot were taken from the collections gath
ered by striking car men who play grind organs on the streets.
Thu ninu under arrest are:
Michael J. Herllhy, striking "I." guard, No. 1S4 Uast One Hundred and'
Second Street, financial secretary of Local No. 731 of tho carmen's union.
Uenjamln Hamilton, striking "L"'guard, No. 127 East Eighty-fourth
Street, business agent of Local No. 731.
George Pollock, striking subway guard, No. 09 Eaut One Hundred and
Thirteenth Street, assistant financial secretary of Local No. 731.
Lawrence Kulle, striking subway guard, No. 131 East Ono Hundred and
Slxfenth Street, secretary of LoealNo. 731.
James Mcrna, striking subway Kuard, No. 776 Eighth Avenue, rasmber
executive cunnilttee of Local No. 731.
Thomas J. .MclJutte, chauffeur. Nu. 300 llloomfleld Street. Caldwell. N.J.
liofuro tho turn ero takm to Police Court District Attorney Siann
Hiii'Httoiied Herllhy, who lepeateil his confeeslon. McCJulre also rondo a
confession. ltoth(WiliI they Ibid not been Intimidated by the police. Tho
... ..-It. .t...i..i. In... I I V. n uuonn.l ...n t . ... l..n I r. ....nl.t .1.- ......
""""" '
. tho accused men claiming they were
. . . . ,,
-(i' v.
Herllhy. Merna nnd .McOulre havo mado full confessions,, Hamilton,
Pollock unjl K ullo admit they hear.) talk of ilynmlt explosions In meet
ings of the cxicutlvo committee of thu union, but duiy taking an active
part in thu pint Merna, who Is anarchistic lu his mental bint, appears
to have been the Instigator of thu nchomu to keep people out of the subway
by perlo Usui dynamite uutraip.'s. All the prlsomrs are young men. llerllliy
Is only twenty-one.
DISCARDED FUSE LEADS TO THE ARRESTS.
According to Capt. Tunney of tho Iloinb Squad tho mystery of tho ex
plosion was solved becnuso tho plotters throw away a lot of fuse and. soma
fulimnntliu; cap near tho Harlem Meru In Ccnt-ul Park. Tho fnso and
"lips, Capt. Tunney says, wero found by Detective Conell, who searched
i tint neighborhood uf thn explosion.
1 Thn fuan und caps wore tinned over to Lieut. Husby and Dotectlva
Serct. Ilarnlt., who found that they had teen purcuased on Oct. 'Si at the
j pln'it of th(. Hercules Powder Company nt Kenvll, N, J., by a man who
I kind ho wiiH C. J. Johnson of Ilcrnardsvllle, N. J.
i The detectives found (' J. Johnson of Nernardsvllle, a furniture and
piano mover, who hnJ no difficulty in proving that ho had not bought any
thing at the Hercules rowder plant, Tho rucords of the Keuvll plant inowed
IMES SQUARE
imprisonment. Five of them are
- ". .r possiouuy or
framed up" or pl.t throujli tho "third
O '1
