THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; moderate
temperature; moderate west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, fla; lowest. 43.
Detailed waehr, mall arnVmrirlne report on paste 15.
2$uvl
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV.NO. 64.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916. Copyright, 191S, by the Sun 1'rintlng and PubUtMng Aa$oclation.
ONE CENT
In Create w York, i F.lsewhere
Jrr.fr City nd Newark. I TWO CUNTS.
WILSON SPEAKS
TO 14,000 AMID
GARDEN UPROAR
Poors Arc Shut Against
40,000 Disappointed Per
sons in Street.
TAMMANY BAND AIDS
GENERAL CONFUSION
President Is Cheered 29
Slinutes, but Brief Speech
Is Barely Heard.
EXODUS FROM HALL
DROWNS HIS WORDS
Tlii-on? Goes Wild Over
Seabur.v, Mistaking Him
for Woodrow.
After 14,000 persons had cheered
President Wilson for twenty-nine min
utes In Madison Squnre Oarden last
night he made a speech only eighteen
minutes long. The reason for this
brevity lr "what was to he the super
climax rf his campaign was that the
crowd made so much noise walking
out that the President was utterly un
ablo to make himself heaid.
Tlic lYesldent's voice was so frayed,
n lacking in Its old carrying power,
that even when the audlenco was
Silent at the start of his address his
words did not begin to reach the gal
leries fell short. In fact, of reuchins
more than half of the people on the
main iloor.
The exodus started In the galleries
before the President had talked five
minutes. As If acting on a signal the
gallery folk rose as one man, snatched
their huts and began thud-thudding
down the steep stairs. Some of them
Hedged themselves against the walls
of the arena trying to hear at closer
range, hut the majority streamed out
of the Garden and went home.
Crowd of 40,0011 l.rtt Outside.
They had clone their mint of scream
ing, they had seen the President and had
Hatched his lips move, and they wanted
to tieat the rest of the unterrifled Demo
cats in breaking through the mob, estl
miteil at 40,000 or J.0,000, that had been
If ft outside the Oarden when the doors
were closed.
Madison Square Garden meetings have
never been as peaceful as an orator
m slit crave. A lot of people walked out
when llran got liaik from his globe
t ottlr.g and when Itoosevelt returned
Pom Africa, but never In such number
s left the President of the t'nlteil States
l.it night There must have been 3,0(10
in the departing host.
President Wilson was further ills.
turiJtil last night by the hand of a Tani
i.itiy marching club which insisted on
parading, down Fourth avenue Just as
I e started speaking, spilling "The Ited,
White and ltlue" through all the Gar
m n's open windows and causing the
Jovial face of Secretary Tom Smith of
Tammany who stood back of the Presi
dent on the speakers' stand, to be shaded
by an expression of Intense agony.
President Got n HhiI Start.
The hand caused the President, as
rslng men would say, to get off to a
I ul nart.
Ho was trlng to recover his poise and
tl.e n attered threads of his speech when
lee galleries began their homeward
c'umplng, That shattered the whole
function, hut the President kept on and
managed to mako a record for the ate
negrapher Frequent cheering from
those near enough to the stand to hear
him intetrupted the nddress.
' was a mad night anyway. Some
I mly ki bungled the arrangements that
M 7 o clock the police and the (lardcn
facials wore trying to tram the entire
city through the ftont door, the only one
that was open.
The newspaper men, invited guests an 1
ether reserved seat holders fared no bct
l'r Hun the rest. All were caught In n
sw li liiif press and spun and jammed
Glides!)
Women Inlnti Man I Stabbed.
Mefoi the doors opened women
squeezed against them could be heaid
'"naming a block away. Several who
Muted or weie bruised weie treated In
n emergency hospital in the Oarden.
"re nwn, trlng to get to an upper win
i'i' mi a Twenty-sixth street fire escape,
stabbed under tho left shoulder
Made He was Peter Santiago of ,U5
ton Sixty. sixth street. He didn't know
r-h lie wa flashed or by whom.
Va e. MeCormlck, Democratic national
chairman, and Mrs. J. Borden Harrlman
t'A Into the Oarden by way of a fire cs
"pe Later President and Mrs. Wilson,
Miss Mnrgatnt Wilson and their party
travelled the same route. They had to.
The only other path to the speakers'
stand was Impassable. Despite orders
nd Imprecations from the firemen every
le was choked with ieoplo standing.
Two bands performed, one at either
end of thn amphitheatre. Most of tho
H OKi had small flags when they en
tered; heaven knows how they retained
'hem. There were also quite a few big
Ameilc.ni (lags hung- from the galleries
a thousand or two.
About 8 o'clock there was a great stir.
Major Mltchel was seen descending
toward the rostrum followed by a tall,
Kray haired, sharp featured, eyeglassed
imn . Samuel Seabury, If you please, hut
gn-at many persons thought It was
woolrow Wilton.
As Seabury stepped to the front and
v'e, and bowed the Oarden started
touring In a way that made It apparent
Continued on Fourth Page,
BRITISH SEIZED 13,857
BAGS OF MAIL FROM U. S.
Totnl Taken From Dec. 1015
to Sept. 1010, 4.1,020
Sacks, Says Berlin.
UgfiMN, by wireless, Nov. 2. Alto
gether 21,200 bags of mall from Ger
many and ls.120 baga destined for Oer
many, of which 11,857 were from the
United States, were confiscated by the
British and French authorities from De
cember, IMS, to the end of September,
1916, says the Overseas News Agency.
The news agency asserts that only a
small part of the seised mall was after
ward despatched to Its destination. The
seliures as given by the news agency
follow:
From Oermany To the United States
on Dutch steamers, 9,237 bags; on Dan-'
Ish steamers, 2.93S bags; on Norwegian I
steamers, 1,9.15. Bags to Spain, Portugal'
and South America On Dutch steamers,
5,72s bagi : on Norwegian steamers, 489 I
bags. To the Dutch Indies On Dutch I
steamer, S65 bags.
To Oermany From the United Slates'
on Dutch steamers, 1.1 S 1 bags; on Dan-,
isn steamers, !,3.l Lugs; on Norwegian I
steamers, 3,513 hags. From Spain, Por
tugal and South America On Dutch
steamers, 2,354 bags; on Norwegian
steamers, SI bags. From the Dutch In
dies On Dutch steamers, 525 hags.
The Postmaster-Oenerat of Denmark
announces that the steamer Frederlk
VIII., tKiund from New York for Copen
hagen, was compelled by the British au
thorities to leave her entire letter mall
and parcel post at Kirkwall. The Nor
wegian steamer Krlstlanflord also was
compelled to leave at Kirkwall seventy
inree uags or letter mall for Denmark.
U.S. READY TO DEAL
OUT GOLD TO WORLD
Hesej'vt! Hoard Points to Jjil,
Oin.ooo.ooo l orcijrn Olili
giitioiis Held Hero.
Washington. Nov. 2 A method of
meeting foreign demands for gold that
will be made on the United States at the
close of the war Is suggested in the Fed
eral reserve bulletin published to-day.
The bulletin comments on the Inqiorta-
lion of gold and secuiltles, and In this1
connection prints a list of the Kuropean
obligations held In the United States,
which are estimated by the board at
J 1.931.000.000. distributed In geogratihl-
cal groups as follows: I
Kuwih. 1.27.O0O.O01 ; British Amer
ica, 2l2,non,onn ; t.tin Ameilca, sx,.
orni.OOO; riiltui. $l,noo.000.
The board's statement point to these,
figures as sulking evidence of the nl
tered poltlou or the United States In In
ternational finance.
"Much Inteiest" says the boird. "is
now rentii-d on how the United State
will meet foreign demands fur gold
should such demands arise after the
close of the Kurnpean war. In this con
nection the maturities of I'mopcm obli
gations held here ai of distinct impor
tance. Maturities In mfi. J30.000.000;
1917, J103,00n.000 lls. liOO.OOo.OOO :
1919, $300,000.000 ; t92c). 1300.000,000 ; ,
1921. I200.ri0n.00ii; I!23. $.".,000,000; in
fi.rmatlnn lacking, $229.0110,0110; total 1
Jl,27,OO.oOn."
NAVY YARD DRAFTSMEN STRIKE
See I I it for Voles In een Honrs
Pay for Ten of Work.
Noni'ot.K, V.t Nov. 2. llecnuse they
weie ii'ipiired to work tell hours a day
for only seven hours pay draftsmen em-
nl,i i.,l lit tlita ii.-ivv .itil u-.-ilkcil fillt to
day, but late this afternoon decided to
return till their grievance Is settled by (
the Depaitment. Thn men claim the Ad-1
ministration Is making a play for votes
because of the supposed eight hour day'
ror woramen, wane tney are neiun lorceu
to work ten hours without any pay for
overtime.
Heretofore the men have been working
fiom 9 A. M. until 4 ;3u P. M. They
were told to-day that If they lefused to
wotk the ten hours they would only be
paid seven-tenths of what they are now
tecelvlng.
Democratic politicians became alarmed
at the danger of a split lu the labor
vote and took the matter To Washing-
OHIO AND WISCONSIN SAFE.
Illlclicoc-k Puts .Missouri unit Krn
Inekr tn "Sure" Class.
CltlCAno, Nov 2. Frank II, Hitch
cock added Ohio and Wisconsin to ills
list of States that he figures ate safely
llepubllcan, placed Missouri and Ken
tucky In a tabulation of "Sure but not
itulle safe." and maintained the claim
that he Issued last Saturday that the
Itepuhlican national ticket Is to carry
the hulk of the States in the North
and the West.
Mr Hitchcock rfllerated Ills expecta
tion tint Hughes will 'carry New Vurk
Stale by at least 100,000 and Connecti
cut he figures as absolutely assured to
the Itepuhlican candidates.
"Nothing has occuncd In tho closing
dnys of the campaign to change the
situation from our standpoint," Mr.
Hitchcock said, "except for tho better.
Mr. Hughes bejond question w'lll be
elected."
T. R. SPEAKS HERE TO-NIGHT.
Colonel lo Deliver .Most Important
Speech In Cooper Union,
Col. Itoosovelt will deliver what Is ex
pected to be his most Important speech
of tho campaign to-night nt Cooper
Union, under the auspices of the .lohn
Wanamaker Committee. The Mexican
Peace Commissioners, who heard tho
Colonel's speech last Saturday night with
little relish, have applied to the lie
publican National Committee for tickets
to tho meeting to-night. The Colonel
will devote most of his remarks to the
Mexican situation.
John Wanamaker will preside mid will
use the desk and chair used by Abraham
Lincoln vhcn he made his memnrablo
nddress In Cooper Union In I Mil.
Col. Itoosevelt ngreed to speak at the
meeting on October 24, when he received
an appeal signed by a couunlttno of
prominent business men throughout the
country urging him tn discuss the
character and policies needed by the
next Administration.
5 MEN SAW WEASEL
NOTE TO GERMANY
Bryan, Lansing, Garrison, Bur
leson and Tumulty in
the Secret.
NEW FACTS BHOFOHT OCT
President's Denial Not Exactly
In Line With Reve
lations. Fiom a source which It considers
tiustwortliy The Sun has romo Into pos- j
session of certain facts regarding the
softening addendum lo the I.usltanla
note, first brought to Mil in a speech
made last week by Senator Lodge, These j
facts are said to agree with the version
which former Secretary of War Harrison 1
has given tn some of his close friends, j
Arranged in sequence they apenr to I
show :
That the general tenor of the so
called "strict accountability" note was
diet discussed at a Cabinet meeting
and over the objection of Mr. Bryan
was approved and ordered sent.
That after It had leen signed and
, while it was at tile State Department
'swaltln transmission -Mr. Itryan asked
for and obtained a private Interview
with the President.
That nt tills Interview Mr. Bryan
pleadi-J with his chief to chanve the
note by the addition of a paragraph
that would mollify llerni.iny and kec4
It within the spirit of the arbitration
treaties which he had been negotiat
ing and which Oermany had shown a
disposition to accept.
That the President at this secret
meeting with the Secretary of tftate
and after much argument yielded to
Itrjnn'w persuasions.
Added In Wilson's Hand.
That the note, which was about to
be transmitted, was recalled from tho
titatc Department and taken to the
White House and that the President
then In hla nwn handwriting un-I with
the approval of Mr. Itryan added a
paragraph which stated that the Im
perial Herman Government w-as not 10
construe the note as a threat of war
and that liability for the American
lives lost on the I.usltanla would be
determined after the close of hostili
ties In Uurope.
That having won lilo victory over the
President Mr. Ilryan colled up Secre
tary Tumulty and told htm what he
had done and that Mr. Tumulty, greatly
a-: Hated, appealed to Mr. Lansing.
That Mr. 1-ar.slng, without authority
from his chief, Mr. nryan, had the
unte held up for three hours In the 1
cable bureau of the State Deptrtment I
to allow time to Mr. Tumulty' to reach I
other members of the Cabinet.
Tlut Mr. Tumulty first appealed to
Mr, Garrison who rushed to ttie
President and tried without avail to
get him to lesclnd the addendum.
That. Iliullng he could not mine Mr.
Wilson, Mr Garrison then cominiiiil
rated with Postnnetei .Gvneial lluile-
Meaut I'olllleitl It 11 In.
That sMr Huilesou then Jollied with
Mr. Harrison in Insisting to the Pres
ident that the addendum, lu view of
the general temper of the country, I
would mean polltlial inin for the Prrs- ,
Hent and the Democratic thirty. ,
That Mt Wilson flnall yielded to 1
the views of these two Cabinet mem
bers and recalling the note a second
time, ordered the addendum cancelled, .
the not,, being then despatched in the .
form in which It was made public.
Mr. Ilran. It will be recalled, refused'
to sign tlio second I.us'tanla note and his
lesignatliin followed. '
Mr. Garrison's iesgu.itlnii followed not
loiu afttr this Incident, and rumor has1
had It since that his resignation was
partly attributable to something which
oecmred lu connection with this note,'
though the facts were not then known,
Only me persons In Washington nt
that time are said to he In possession of
tlie facts Mrs I hand regarding this In
cident. These five were Messrs, Garri
son, liurlesou, Ilryan, Tumulty and
Lansing. Assistant Secretary of War
Breckinridge was taken into the secret,
and through him some of the Informa
tion percolated to friends ami Intimates
recently,
Al Variance With Wilson Denial.
It was pointed nut yesterday that ths
facts as related here do not exactly
square with the denial made by the
President on Monday of Senator Lodge's
charge. In this denial the President
said Hint no postscript or amendment
had ever been written or contemplated
by him "except such changes that I
myself Inserted which strengthened and
emphasized thn protest."
The President's statement also said
that "after the note was ready for
transmission It was suggested that an
Intimation be convced that a proposal
for arbitration would be acceptable."
This, the President stated, was never
discussed In a Cabinet meeting "for the
reason that I rejected the suggestion
after giving it such consideration as I
thought It properly deserved,"
This denial waa not entliely accepted
by the llepubllcan campaign managers,
who have been Insisting that Mr. Wilson I
did not exactly meet the charge made, I
They charged. In a statement Issued ,
by Chairman Wlllcov, that If not a pot-1
script or amendment there surely was I
something of a softening character which
It had been proposed to add to the note
or to send to Ambassador Gerard and
called on the President or those Id poa
session of the Information to disclose the
facts as something the public hail a right
to know,
MRS. WI1S0N BUYS A DRESS.
Discards Purple far Yellow Chiffon
a President Walts.
The President found time yesterday
afternoon despite his many engagements
to drive wltlr Mrs. Wilson to a shop at
Fifth avenue near Thlrty-alxtli street.
Mrs. Wilson entered the slore, but the
President remained In his automobile, A
yellow chiffon dress and a fur tonne were
selected by Mrs. Wilson, In the slore
she changed from the purple dress which
had been sent to her nt Columbus, Ohio,
white there on a campaigning trip with
the President, and donned the new chif
fon. The purple dress will be forwarded
to the White House.
WANT FORD PROFITS NOW,
NOT PUT INTO BUSINESS
Dodge Brothers, Owning 10 Per Cent, of Stock, Get
Injunction Against Expansion Scheme Call Policy
of Controlling Interests "Reckless."
Dktkoit, Nov, 2. A temporal y In
junction against Henry Ford to restrain
the Ford Motor Company from dlshuis
Ing and Investing as fixed capital assets
and surplus profits that would other
wise he available for dividends was
issued by Judge Mended In the Waynu
Circuit Court ttcrday.
The plaintiffs, John F Dodge ami
llotaio i:. Dodge, stockholders In the
company and 11I40 owners of the Dodge
Ik os. Motor Car plant, want the accu
mulation of cash surplus distributed
among slockholdeis In seclal dh blends.
The cause of the writ, according to
the Dodge complaint, wis the declara
tion by .Mr. Ford at the end of the Inst
fiscal year that no special dividends lu
the future would be declared by the
company and that surplus earnings
would be used to extend the business.
Ftom January, l'Jlt, to October, IIH,,
the hill recites, special dividends aggre
gating $34,000.(100 weie distributed
among stockholders in addition to the
regular monthly dividends or per cent.
Though the earnings of the tompanv
for the year ended July 31. I91C. were
ItiO.OOO.OOtf the declaration was made,
the Mil continues, ttiat no special divi
dends would be declared then or In
the future. '
The announced policy of Mr Ford to
engage In a multiplicity of undertakings
was declared In the bill to put In Jeop.
ardy seriously the Interests of the stock
holders, "In the fare of Increased labor and
material costs and the uncertain condi
tions that will prevail in the business
world at the termination of the war,"
AMERICAN CORPS IN
WAR TO LOSE NAME
Washington Disliked Use tif,
National Title by Fliers in
French Army. !
Washington-, Nov. 2 The famous'
American aviation corps of the French
army probably will lost Its distinctive tl- j
tie toon as a result of protests to theState '
Department that use of the name Is not
compatible with American neutrality.
There will be no formG exchanges on
the subject, but the State Department
will suggest informally to the French .
Foreign Office that mention of the
"American" corps In ntllcinl commu
niques places this country In an embar
rassing position There Is no doubt
here that this point of view will be ap
preciated In Paris
The corps, made up of a large number'
of young American aviators, was re
cruited and organised as a sejurate unit
by special permission of the French mil
itary authorities, Its niembers have
distinguished themselves tm.. .1 ml attain,
particularly lu the tlghtm-. .iimiiihI
Verdun
When I 'Iff en Hock well was killed In
September German newspapers printed
violent attacks upon the United States,
declaring that Hie presence of Airier,
cans in the French army was proof t It it
this country's reutrallty was vanishing.
Later, however, the seml-olll. lal liver
seas News Agem y -announced that th
Imperial ("internment did not consider j
the volunteering of Americans .is a
breach of neutrality.
The complaints tu the Slate Depart-1
ment followed a recent reference to the
Americans In an official rommunlinte
from the French War Otllie. I'reiedent
for action was set earlv lu the war.
when at the Informal request of the
Washington Government Great Britain
had the name "American Legion" with
drawn from a Canadian contingent re-'
cruited from the United Stales.
CITIZENSHIP LOST.
Vliirbnrg Cnn't tie! Passport to He
turn tn Cnulaml. (
WASIllsr.TON-, Nov, 2 -The appliea-'
Hon of Theodore Mnrhusg. a son of the i
former Minister to Belgium, for a pa-s. .
part to return to I'ngland to tejoln the
Hrltlh aviation corps has been refused
by the Bureau of citizenship and re
ferred to higher olllcUils of the State
Department.
Marburg admitted he had fought In a
foreign army and planned to return to
resume his post. On that ground, In
conformity with tile law of l'.inC, the bu
reau refused the passpott.
Secretary Lansing said that an Amer
ican who enlists In a foreign army lias
forfeited his citizenship.
Marburg lost a leg whilo flying with
the British army In France and planned
to return to Unginnd as an Instructor In
the aviation corps.
SUBMARINE MEN ON RAMPAGE.
I)c lilac lilnml mllnrn SImIi Urrncli
Walter In ev London Cafe.
Nkw I.onikin'. Conn., Nov. S.- Two
sallnis from the German submarine
Deutschlaud are being sought tills morn
ing by the local police after a Mahhlng
affray In a local cafe In which. It Is
charged, they knifed a man,
Shortly after midnight the two sail
ors In unlfntm enteted the Knicker
bocker restaurant, mi Hank street,
shouting "llncli der Deutschland" and
singing loudly. One inadn for a I ihie
where two oung women weie eating
lie thrust one of the girls to one side
and tried to scat himself beside her while
he put his arm about her.
The girl screamed and Ldc Blanch
aril, a waller, French bv blrtli, came to
their rescue. He seized the sailor and
tried to pull him away. The German
suddenly drew a dirk, slashed lllauchard
and Mid from the place with his com
panion. PLAN TO FREE CIVILIANS FAILS.
Ilneiiiy Opposition Given us lleaaon
In the HelclistHKi
Amstkiipam, via London, Nov. 3 (I'll
day), The Foreign Oillce representative
In tho Itelchstag, according lo a Berlin
despatch, has announced that the pro
posal for) tho release of civilian prison
ers of evety age In the belligerent 101111
trlc.s has failed owing to enemy oppusl.
lion.
"If the negotiations later succeed," he
said, "we bind nuisclvca mil tn Incur
porutt those returned In the army,"
the hill reads, "tho policy Is reckless In
1 the extreme."
I Thn bill declares Mr. Ford Is engaged
In negotiations to Invest millions In Iron
ote mines In Hie northern peninsula ot
Michigan or in Minnesota; tn build ships
I to transport ore to smelters and to build
steel manufacturing plants, thereby de
priving stockholders of fair olid reason
able returns on their Investment.
Mr. Fold owns 8 per cent, of the
capital stock of the company, which
gives him control. When the articles of
association were amended In 190S and
tho authorized capital stock was placed nt
$2,000,000 John F. and Horace K, Dodge
each had l.OC'ii shares, par value at $100
each, which made their Joint 'holdings
one-leiith of the entire capital stock.
The Dodge brothels contend that
1 though the regularly monthly dividends
." per cent., or (10 er cent, a ear aro
large on the $2,000,000 capital stock the
j dividends amount to only a fraction of 1
I per rent, of the capital actually Invested
' when the surplus Is taken Into account.
They also allege they have been unable
to make any arrangements to discuss the
plan with 'Mr. Ford. They further al
lege that Mr. Ford has asserted that
since the profits are to bo represented by
Investment In plants and capital the
stoc'choldcrs should have no right to
1 complain,
( One of the demanils of tho bill of
complaint Is that the company distribute
to stockholders at least 7. per cent, of
tho accumulation of the cash surplus and
1 In future of all earnings of the com-
j puny
' Another demand Is thnt a receiver he
appointed If necessary. The defendants
will be given a, hearing to show cause
'why a permanent writ should Hot be
j granted.
AUSTRIAN LINE ON
CARSO IS SMASHED
Italians Take .".000 Prisoners;
and Make Fresh Proeress in 1
Drive on Trieste.
I.0.VP0V, Nov. 2. The expected Italian
smash at the Austrian lines near Gor
itz a,ml on the Cntso was delivered yes
terday and was a success. The Austrian
lines were broken at several points, and
all told neatly .'..000 prisoners, six can
non, many machine guns and other war
material captured.
The first Italian ofllclal statement on
the results of t!:e attack follows;
On the Jul., m front estcn'.ay our
1 1 oops attacked vowe-fii! defences on
the heights east of Gorltz and .1
strong new line 011 the t'aiso east of
the Vallone Dining the morning ai
t ilery and trench mortaiw opened .1
lumy li e 0:1 the eiiem.v's I. ties which
weie breached at seMial points An
)nf.iiitr. atl.uk was dcllteted at 1
o'i lock lu the morning,
South of the Oppni'iilasella-Casi.in
11
11 mix 1 roan the enem s line
11. 1 iipicd .it several points and
against incessant rouutce alta l,s.
wa
ll, al
I i-ailng etcid ly 4.731 prlsonei
.in hiding 32 olliit rs and aieo 1; lu.1
Illlllllll. ter L'ltl'.s I 1 ! Itirlt,..l
111.uh.ne guns, traii'.pu-. t animals anil
oihir m.itii .lis w,-,e captured.
Later the following more detailed a, .
inn of the positions g lined neat Gor
.tz niid further south, on the Carso,
was Issued
In lb" Got it area, where the ground
became sodden during the recent tains,
our t-.oops o, nip the resistance
of tile i neim and occupied trenches 011
the eastern slopes uf Thud and S.m
.Mai co and heights cal of Sober On
tile C.llso the Eleventh Arni Colps
Maimed the wooded hills of Veliki.
Kllbucli and Hill 37.'t east and above
Munte PecluUa and the helgm 3us
east of the latter. We also pushed
foiward two-thirds of a mile east of
Sevltl.
The Austrian War tilllce statement ad
mits a partial Italian victory. It sas-
"lu the Gorltz region an Italian of
fensive has loaimenied. The second
and thltil Italian armies opened the at
t.uk. The (list general assault was te
puled. After an Inctease lu the enemy
fire until It became estraordliiarily heavy
the cnim infantry stunned at noon our
positions 111 the Wlpparh Valley and
on the heights east of Vertolblza, In
tending in captuie them at any price
Seven enemy brigades advanced In the
narrow region, but were repulsed,
"Shortly after II o'clock In tho morn
ing on the northern part of the Carso
plateau a massed attack wns begun by
the Italian Ihf.iutr), which gained
giound bejond our ruined advance lines,
Lncli cling coupler attacks by our brave
troops irpulsrd the Italians, but Bossvlca
remained lu the enemy's hands. Light
Italian divisions participated in this at
tack." PRAISES C ADORN A.
London Times" Sera Another Mas
ter stroke on Carso,
.iifcei Cable Itfiuiir). tn Titr. St.s rm,i ih,
f.nnifon 7lm
liNixiN, Nov. 3 Friday I The 7'linrs'
comments this moinlng as follows upon
the Italian victory near Gorltz and on
the Cat no; I
'Once moie Gen Cadoma has struck
A shrewd, nucessful blow. Since the
gieat attack III early August which led
lo the taking of Gortlz the sweeping ad
Vance of Gen. Cadoina's troops on the
C.uso Ins inner teallv htoniied The,
1 si mo uiasitr hand that secretly trans
I fined a large army and nlnetv -thiee
battel les from the Treiilluo to the Isonzo
front In one week evidently controlled
the siibseipii nt operations.
"The Influence of the new Italian suc
cess upon the Austrian will be ennsld-'
cradle. Fur llie fourth time since the lie-,
ginning of August Gen. Cadnrna has lilt
Hie foe hard. Ills prisoners ,iliead out
numder 11 complete Austrian army corps.1
Much haul lighting Is doubtless In storel
for King Victor Kmmauuel's troops be-,
foie they can leach the positions com
manding Trieste and the railway com-1
liliinicatlons of the Istrlan nenlnsula. bin 1
the enemy will tight with the foreboding
of defeat 111 Ills heail."
si",l7l for ConnniiHliI Duchess.
Ottawa, Out., Nov. 2 The faiewell
gift of the women nf Canada to tho
Duchess of i 'onnaiighl, amounting to
ir.2,'J7rt, was to-day cabled to London,
The gift will lie applied to the Duchess of
Conn. night's pilsoiieis of war fund, In
compliance with her request,
ARMED SHIP STATUS
REVIVED BY MARINA
I
Germany Has Never Accepted'
the Contention of the
United States.
MAKES SITUATION OHAVE
Has Notified Greece It Will
Not Warn Vessels Carrying
Entente Supplies.
WsitNi".TO.v, Nov. 2. Germany's de
fence for tho destruction of the British
steamship Marina without warning nnd
with the loss of six Amerlcnn lives may
revert back to the German contention
that armed merchantmen should be
treated as warships. This defence was
advanced by Germany nt the time of
the Lusltanla disaster and Is one of the
many points which ne er have leen satis
factorily cleared up. The fear that the
iplestlon may again be raised Is based
on an unofficial despatch from Athens
Mating that the Greek Government had
been notified that Germany Intended to
sink without warning all ships carrying
supplies to the Kntentc Allies.
Such a procedure would cause the
gravest concern here. It would amount
to a flat refusal on the part of Germany
to be Influenced by the conception which
the United States Government has. out
lined on the status of armed merchant
men under International law and would
be regarded as a violation of Germany's
pledge.
Vital Question to Germany.
The fact that the Marina carried a
1.7 Inch gun, presumably for defensive
purposes, has brought the question
pointedly to the fore, although Secretary
Lansing said to-day that the United
States understands Germany's pledge
not to sink merchantmen without warn
ing and without providing for the safety
of passengers and crew applies to ships
with defensive armament. No distinc
tion was drawn In the correspondence
between armed and unarmed ships, and
the State Department does not accept
any contention that Germany's respon-
-ninny is nmiieu to tnosc without arma
ment. It Is realized that Germany's In
creased submarine warfare, combined
with the Increasing number ot armed
allied ships and their Increasing elli
clency In defence, makea this a vital
question lo her, nnd it Is regarded as
practically certain that she will seek to
Inject the armed merchantman contro
versy Into the diplomatic correspondence
concerning the Marina.
Germany and Austrin on February 10,
In substantially the same terms, notified
the United States to the following effect :
"Unetny merchantmen armed with
guns no longer have the right to be con
sldeied as peaceable merchant vessels
of commerce. Theiefore the German
naval forces will receive orders to tteat
suih vessels as belligerents,"
l oilleillliill of I lilted Slnlrs,
Sectetary Lansing rifu-nl to accept
ibis view and notllled .d the belllgeieut
governments of the attitude of the
United states In a memorandum under
date of March ''.i, saying:
"it is nei es.i.iry for a belllgi tent war
ship to determine the status of an .iinitd
men Incut este of an enem encoun-
teleil Oh tile lllgd s-e.l, ,sie "),,. IclltS
of life and ptopt-it) of belilgctents .mil
neutrals on board the Vf-el may be Im
paired If its status s that or ait enemy
arshlp,
"The determination n." wathl.e char
acter must rest lu no cise upon pt,.
sumption, but upon conclusive evidence,
because the ie-ponsbty for Hi., di
stinction of life and property depends
upon the actual facte of the cae and
cannot be avoided lessened by .1
standard of evidence which a belliger
ent may announce as creating a pre.
Mimpllon uf hostile character on the
otlu i hai.d. to safeguard himself f
possible llabllltv for uiiwariante.i dc.
stiuctlou of life and propel ty the bellig
erent should, in the absence of conclu
sive evidence, act on the piesumptloii
that an armed men haiitman is of peace
ful liaracter.
I'ouelnalve Utldeiiee Necessary,
"A presumption based solely on the
presence of an armament on a merchant
Vessel of an enemy is not a surfh-leut
reason for a belligerent to declare It to
be a warship and pro d to attack with-
out regard to the lights of the persons
on board. Cnnrlti.lcr erldenre of a pur
pose to use the armament for aggression
Is essential."
The gist of the whole contention of the
United States s contained In this last
sentence, Tim mere presence of a 1 7
inch gun on the Marina did not Justify
the German submarine commander In re
garding tills vessel as a warship unless
there was evidence showing that the gun
was to bo used aggressively against the
submarine, according to this Govern
ment. Germany never specifically teplled to
tho American memorandum, but 1: ac
cepting the American note 011 the Sussex,
demanding abandonment of Illegal sub
marine warfnro against "passenger and
f 1 eight carrying vessels," Germany prom-
Ised that such vessels would uol lie sunk
without warning and without providing
for the safetv of passengers and crew
"unless the ships attempt to escape or
offer resistance" No mention was made
of aimed merchantmen, so that lh pre
sumption at t ho State Department has
been that Germany accepted the Ameri
can view 011 this matter.
London, Nov. 2. A telcsgram lo the
American Kmhassy tn.dny from Wesley
Frost, American Consul at (Jiiecnslown,
stales Hut tint discrepancies In foimer
I epulis regal ding the number of Ameri
cans on boniil tlie Hilllsh steamship .Ma
lina and the names of those lost, have
now been cleared up. In addition to thn
live Americans leported yesterday as
Inning been lost Hie name of llule, given
In culler advices as Hrue, Is added to
Ih'i list of dead. The name, of Middle
town, flint reported lost. Is now lu the
list of American survivors. These
changes make the total number of Amer
icans on hoard fifty-two, of whom six
wero lost.
llornh, lletier, o Itesiime To or,
Cllicsiio, Nov. 2. United States Sen
ator William K. Hoi ah of Idaho, who
was taken ill at Fond du Lac, Wis, yes
terdav while canniil-mlng for thn He
publican national tic Let ami compelled
tn cancel bin eis-aklng c ngagenieiils, ai
lived III Chicago to-day ami said he felt
no much Improved In health thit lie ex
pected lo resume his tour after a day's
rest.
8R' f c
Also Drive Off Five Destroyers
Which Come to Aid of
Submarine Crew.
LoxnoN't Nov. 2. A Gel mart subma
rine placed a prize crew aboard the
Dutch steamship Oldambt, which left the
Hook of Ilollnnd yesterday. At 6 o'clock
this morning n British destroyer ap
peared and recaptured the Oldambt. The
German prize crew fired two bombs with
the hope of destroying their prize, but
the Oldambt remained afloat.
An Admiralty official statement says:
"The Dutch steamer Oldambt was cap
lured by the enemy Wednesday night
near Noord. Hinder lightship. A prize
, crew was put aboard nnd the ship was
1 being tuken to Zeehrugge, when about
! daylight some of our light ecoutlng craft
. overtook her,
"The prize crew attempted tn blow
I up the ship nnd they with the crew took
to the boats. The prize crew, con
sisting of one ollVcr nnd nine men, were
overtaken and made prisoner and, the
ship was tuken In tow by one of our
Vessels.
i "Five German drstroyers which ar
1 rived on the scene, presumably to escort
1 the prize into port, were engaged and
' put to flight. The Oldambt was then
' towed for five hours until within six
miles of the Hook of Holland, where
I she wns taken In charge by a Dutch
tug."
I Amstkbpam, via London. Nov. .1. Ac
cording to the ltnmtrlabln.il the Oldambt
, reached the Hook of Holland, but cap
sized, the cargo being lost.
CIVIL WAR BEGUN
BY GREEK REBELS
' Venizclists Occupy Town of
j Katerina After Fight With
King's Troops.
I London-. Nov. 3 (Friday). According
to special despatches from Athens the
, Venlzellst national defence army has
1 seized and occupied Katcrlna, a few
' miles southwest of Salonlca, after a
' short fight with tho areel; royalist
I troops, Reuter's correspondent nt
, Athens says the King's government has
' sent reenforcements of Infantry and ar
tillery to Katerina.
A despatch to the Dally itatl from
Athens says:
"An extraordinary situation has been
created by the action of the otllcers of
the Larlssa Hallway, which Is controlled
by the Untente Allies, In allowing royal
ist military otllcers to send reenforcc
nieiits to oppoe tho advance of the
Vejllzellsts.
"That the U.nlente should permit the
lending of assistance In military hums.
oris ava'.i.et their nun allies, namely,
the Vcnizellbl trolls, K n.neldeied In
coherent and niturally suiprlses ne
Veiilzellsts."
The Verilrellst army now numbers
311.1MH1.
Disp.iti lies from Alliens give ac.isa
llon.il detail of the alpae-l atre-et al
Lanesa of a Geiinau utllcer who was
pioc.fdlng lu a motor cat with the Gir
111.111 Legation mall pom h, bound for the
Hulgariin Hue. it is sal.l the pouih run
t.ilmd iiuiMii t-int messages to the null
t.irj attaches at Solla and Constantino
t'lle and also detailed plane of the Suez
Canal defences In addition, the ib---tiati
la s s.i, it contained "ciimpiouiisliiK"
If lifts from the Gmk Kirs; and Queen
to tile K.llset.
Itellter's Alliens correspondent says
Mia: Admiral ilu I'ourmt, commander of
I In- all.ed fleet III tile Medllerilltieail,
has sent notice lo the Greek harbor au
thoriiies liidli itmg 11 danger zone for
esil.s cnleiiiig or leaving l'lrn'iin hat
bur The Fit-mil Vd'i Hal has Issued a
communication siviiiu tii.it investigation
shows that tin- sinking nf the Gte.-l;
steamer Angtllkl was due In an external
I cause a mine or submarine which,
lowing to the measures taken b the
I Kntentc Allies, cannot have been of
oilier or .gin Can German or Germany s
allies The communication says that the
Investigation Into the sinking of the Klki
I-s.i as, although It has not been com
pleted, g.ces evidence for a similar con
clusion. A-nir'NS. via London, Nov. 2 King
1 Constantino issued orders ibis morning
1 to the royalist Hoops tn prevent the nil
lvalue of the revolutionist forces at all
. costs,
' One bundled and fifty loyalist troops
'evaluated KaKrlna. near the Gulf of Sa
lonlca, liefoie (inii Insurgents nrmed with
1 machine guns, withdrawing to Larlssa,
forty miles southwest, to join reenforce
ments. j After months of strife between the fol
lowers of runner Premier Vcnlzelos and
, the adherents of King Constantino over
the question of Greece's stand In the
I war, a levolt of cinisiileiahle prnpoitlous
I has apparently hroken out In the region
southwest nf Salonlca.
U-53 BUFFETED BY STORM.
Crecr Get I, Idle Time mi Heck lie.
IiimiIiik German' i
Hrr.l.l.v, via Sayvl le. Nov. 2 Capt.
Hans Hose of the German submarine
U.63, whose safe return to a German
poit after Its visit to Newport and oper
ations off the American coast was an
nounced yesterd.o, leports that ho had
an exceedingly stormy return passage.
The sea were so high that the crew
of the submarine weie at no tune able
to eveiclse on tlie deck or to lake the air
except In little groups on the conning
towei liven Ills was impossible dining
one period off the Newfoundland II inks
mid attain to the iior'h of Ihiglaud, when
tlie submarine subineiged entliely lo es
rape the unbearable buffeting by the
tempest.
Tlie olllcers and ctew nevertheless re
turned III splendid coiiil tlon. Tile voy.
age, including the brief stay on the
Ameticaii side, lasted foity-one mid one
half das, of wheh seventeen weie con
sumed by the westward voyage.
IUi.timiiiik, Nov 2 Cipt. II llirsih
of the Ntuwcgiaii freighter Osicnlal,
which artived here to.day from Cardiff.
Wales, lepoited having sighted a laige
submarine which he believed In be a
German of the U-.Mt tjpe about nii miles
ea-t of Cape llenrj Capl llnscn e.licl
be Mist saw the suhuiai llie abolll II
o'clock a: night and tli.it it was not uuue
than liflu feet nwa It i rcled the i is
leiilal, he said, but did mil give any signal.
GERMANS FALL
BACK AT VERDUN
AND ON SOMME
Abandon Fort, Ynux Under
Terrific Fire of the
French Guns.
CJlOWXPinXCE'SJUG
OFFENSIVE FUTILE
"Won Two of tho Twenty
Fortified Outposts and
Has lost lioth.
FOCJUSTKOOrSMOVE
OX LE TKAXSL0Y
Gain Ground Three Miles to
Southeast of Ihipnume,
and 200 Prisoners. "
Pamu, N'ov. 2. Tho German Crown
Prlnco has been forced to ulvo bock
Fort Vaux to tho French. Tho Teuton
troopi stole nwny last night from the
last of tho Verdun forta remaining In
their hands because the lite of tho
new 1'rcnch nrtlllcry was unbearable,
Berlin nnnnunces. And on tho Homme
the French In tho past twenty-four
hours have gained notably toward La
Trnnslny nnd taken more than 700
prisoners and twelve machine guns.
As yet the French Wnr Oillce has
not announced the occupation by Gen.
Nlvcllc's Jroops of tho fort, they de
fended so long and bravely nnd now
have back again. All that tho state
ment Issued to-day says of tho Verdun
front Is that "on the right bank of the
Mouse the night was relatively, calm."
Rvnrantlnn Announced.
The news for which all Fiance has
been waiting ever slnco Fort Douaumont
was snatched from the Crown Prince on
October 21 Is thus conveyed by the
German olllclat statement to-day:
Army Group of the German Clown
Ptlnce An artillery engagement on
the right bank of the Htver Meuse
was repeatedly lncrtasi d to great In
tensity. The French up to the present have
directed an especially heavy and de
structive lite against Port Vaux, which
had been evacuated already In the
night time by our troops following a
given older and without being dis
turbed by the enemy Important
pirts of the fort weie blasted by us
liffole we left the position
This announce nien places the final
stamp of failuie upon the gieat German
offensive at Verdun that cost alto
gether, it lias been estimated, 1.00,0(10 III
dead and wiiutidi-d of thn flower of the
Co-i man arm)
Fort Vati and Fort Douaumont were
Hie only two of the outlying furls of Ver
dun that the Crown Prince could take.
All told theie tire twenty of those forts,
ten cm each bank of tin- Mcii-e Doiiau
tiiout was recaptured on October 24. Thn
French at that time also practically put
Fort Vau In a pot Let. and then the Ger
man gaiilson was so baitenil with shell
lire from Ihiee sides that the fort was
untenable.
ll Losses lleunllled.
I Practically every position of any real
strategic value that the Germans took on
' the cast bank of the Meuse, with tremens
1 dous effort, literally Inch by Inch, and
evety Inch representing eiioiinous loss of
life, has now been won back by tho
I French almost without iff cut and with
v cry small loss.
Port Vaux was rnplined by the Ciowa
Ptlnce on the night nf June i! after a
I three months siege tliit was estimated
'to liitce c,it biio XO.OOll men. TIia ite.
fence of the fort was one of the most
heroic lu history, the struggle for It one
of the most lilttei.
For many hours befire Us surrender
the fort was cut off fiom all help, even
from French troops In trenches llililyaids
distant, by an nrtillciy hoinhatdmcnt un
paralleled up to that lime
Thn fort was Hist stormed by West
phallan troops on Juno '- hut so desper
ate did tho French defend its Inner
most defences that it was four days lie
foie tlie commander, Major Haynil, sui-n-ndeied.
He was a made a commander
of the Legion of Honor.
Progress un llie snmine.
Attacking to-day north of tlie Somme
as valiantly as they defended the Ver
dun fort, Fteiieh Infantiy took anoiher
step toward the stiongly defended .
lage nf Lo Transloy, on the Helhuno
road, three miles somheist of Bspaume
Heie the Germans are holding out tlrinh
but French attacks on one side and Hrlt-it-h
on the other are slowl.c closing In as
Frencli and Hrltish closed lu mi Com
blc. , The French found a weal, jpot in ' ie
defences southeast of I," Tiamloy. in
the legion of the .Moival in. I, and tool,
200 'itisonets. The mlle'-al statements
emphasize the illltn ulin s .t ih. tntinttc
In trench wailan- i'i me trevailiug
dii7zlj, foggy weather it. I'n. Somme
f I out. T''e night I'leinh n ion says
North of the Somme a new opei.i
Hon earned out bv us u, s a t. ru -n
between l.eslioeufs ,niil s,a II
Saill'si-I enabled ti io'g i -i a- ai
pieclable amount of gi-.m-, I ,i , .n
pil-otiers
TIKI Prisoners I iil.i n,
S'nce j esleida I ', t -i , ;
prisoners we hace la.., n ii, : s ,i .
amount' In 7 lb' In- u I
thee
Ui
h ui' als i
tloen iiiai liine pi.ia
The aftet i.ooti t i 't i.,
North "f t a i
up durum ' in- ' i
gll llled I'-- n." I i e I e
I ai l,.e-,
Saillv -S.i si , ' i ii a, i
sopdatf'l the e ,
secer.u poiois ,.f s i . o n, ,
out seeta ma tune gnu einnM
