Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL. LVI. NO. 33.
CLAUSEN FAILS TO ANSWER
STINGING CRITICISM
Ignores Challenge of Chairman of Industrial Insurance Commission
to Give Affidavit That Bureau Report of Department is "True
and Correct —Olson Points Out Qlaring Errors in Bureau's
Summary of Investigation, Calls It a Masterpiece of Partisan
Politics and Points Out Where Mistakes by Hay's Commission
Were Covered Up..
Stinging criticism of State Auditor C. W. Clausen, chief of the
State bureau of inspection, and of the bureau's report on its exam
ination of the industrial insurance department, is contained in a
letter written by E. W. Olson, chairman of the industrial insurance
commission and former state labor commissioner, which brought
forth from the State Auditor no attempt to justify or explain the
bureau's report, but merely the rejoinder, "This closes the incident
80 far as we are concerned.."
Rumor has it that the Auditor and bureau chiefs worked hard
to frame up some sort of a reply to Chairman Olson's letter, but
were unable to do so. .Whether that is true or not, all that Clausen
said in his letter to Olson was:
I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 28th Inst. In
response to the same will say that under the laws of the state of Wash
ington, as well as the urgent desire of the Governor, we took up the
examination of the industrial insurance department, have completed■ the
same and filed our report. This closes the incident as far as we are
concerned.
Chairman Olson's letter follows a"public statement by John M.
Wilson, the Republican member of the commission, who as assistant
attorney general was legal advisor of the department for two years
and who also prosecuted the Gillies' cases. . Wilson's statement
declared that publication of the bureau's report to the effect that
there is a shortage of $500,000 in the department's reserve fund "is
both incorrect and misleading," and was a stinging rebuke of the
bureau of inspection.
luuea Challenge to Clausen.
In his letter to Auditor Clausen, Chairman Olson declares the
report to be "a masterpiece from the standpoint of political expedi
ency, illogical conclusions and misstatements of facts," and chal
lenges Clausen or any of his examiners "to make a sworn affidavit
that the report is true and correct in all particulars..". Clausen's
reply, in the light of this indictment and challenge, is taken as an
admission that the commission's statement of the situation is the
true one.
Mr. Olson's letter addressed to Mr. Clausen says:
Thl» Is in acknowledgment of your letter of October 21st, transmit
ting the report of your bureau of the investigation made of the affairs
of this department from October 1, 1911, to January 1, 1916.
We have carefully perused this document and desire to extend to
you our congratulation* in that it is a masterpiece from the standpoint
of political expediency, illogical conclusions and misstatement of facts.
At the time that this report was read in the presence of members
of this commission on the afternoon of October 18th, only a cursory ex
amination of its contents was afforded us. Yet we were able at that
time to point out to your examiners several erroneous conclusions, mis
leading statements and misstatements of facts, one of which was admit
tedly based on hearsay. We note that Blnce that time the report has been
revised and some of the statements referred to have been eliminated or
corrected.
Offered to Point Out Mistakes.
On October 27th, we wrote you a letter advising that we had found
the report to contain numerous misstatements of facts, and therefore re
quested further opportunity after we had received a copy of the report
to point out these discrepancies to you, which you must admit showed
our good faith in the matter.
Whether it was your eagerness to get the report in the hands of the
newspapers at a psychological moment or whether you failed to com
prehend that we aimed to assist you cordially in perfecting your report,
we are at a loss to know. The fact remains, however, that we were given
no further opportunity to point out the many misstatements that the
report contained before it was given to the newspapers, and, therefore,
the full responsibility of the contents rests upon yourself.
In view of the unfounded attacks recently made by the partisan press
ou this department, such attacks being based on the report of your bureau,
* Continued on Page* Three.
FIGHT TO ELECT HUGHES
COSTS MILLION UNO HALF
Congressional Committee Spends
$300,000 More—Wilson Contri
butions Total 91,000,000.
Contributions to the Republican
campaign fund totaled 11,667,757.29
up to October 28, the Republican na
tional committee announced Satur
day. Of this amount $1,678,934
had been spent in tha campaign tc
e>ect Hughes.
In addition to this huge sum
handled by the national committee,
the Republican Congressional com
mittee had raised and spent
$316,930.
A statement from the Democratic
national committee announced con
tributions to the campaign of
$1,006,283. These came from 41.-
882 contributors, while only 22.226
contributed to the Republican fund.
Representatives of the Milwaukee
railroad and the county commission
ers appeared before the public ser
vice commission Monday concerning
the placing of a crossing at Maytown.
upon which the railroad and county
officials have not been able to agree.
Washington Standard
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860. OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
ALLEN WEIR IS BURIED.
Northwest Pioneer Succumbed to
Paralysis Last Tuesday.
Funeral services were held In Port
Townswid Thursday, Rev. N. M. Tem
ple, of this city, officiating, for Allen
Weir, 62 years old, one of the best
known of the pioneers of Olympla
and the Northwest, who died In Port
Townsend Tuesday evening after a
lingering illness following an auto ac
cident in that city last August.
Mr. Weir was at one time United
States commissioner, was the first
secretary of state after statehood, and
had played a leading part In the pre
vious territorial legislatures and the
constitutional convention. Until a
year ago he had enjoyed good health
and was active in political and civic
affairs In this city. A year ago he
suffered a stroke of paralysis from
which he partially recovered, but Au
gust 17 he was injured in an auto
mobile accident at Port Townsend, in
vhich State Senator D. S. Troy was
killed. The injury sustained in this
accident hastened his death.
Olvmpia High's football team held
the fast and weightier Montesano ag
gregation to a 9-9 score, in a game
on a slippery grass lot in Montesano
last Saturday.
THY OLYMPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY."
AN AUTHORIZED STATEMENT
BY GOVERNOR LISTER
Everett, Wash., Nov. 2.
EDITOR WASHINGTON STANDARD,
OLYMPIA, WASH.
Replying to request for statement regarding certain in
terviews in Tacoma Ledger of Tuesday, wherein John Berk
shire and Ed Rogers are quoted as stating that I had drunk
intoxicating liquor with each of them, I desire to say that such
statements, if made, are false—AßE UNTRUE.
I HAVE NEVER DRUNK INTOXICATING LIQUOR
WITH THESE GENTLEMEN OR WITH ANY OTHER PER
SON AT ANY TIME OR PLACE.
I DESIRE TO BRAND THESE STATEMENTS, or any
others of like character that may be made, AS MALICIOUS
FALSEHOODS. ERNEST LISTER.
SEES BK m FOR
WILSON WD use
COCHRAN PREDICTS GOVERN*
COCHRAN SURE OF GOVERN
MAJORITY FOR PRESIDENT.
Governor Lister will be re-elected
and President Wilson will carry the
State by 20,000, in the opinion of W.
IH. Cochran, member of the state
board of control, and one of the best
known Democrats in the State, while
in Olympia last Saturday.
Mr. Cochran getß into all parts of
the State attending to his duties,
and has also been showing the mov
ing pictures of the several State in
stitutions before many commercial
clubs in the different cities. He has
had an excellent opportunity, there
fore, to sound out public sentiment.
"The Eastern part of the State will
give Governor Lister a very large
majority," Mr. Cochran said. "He
will carry Asotin, Stevens, Ferry,
Okanogan, Chelan, Douglas, Lin
coln, Adams, FraAklln, Benton, Yak
ima, Walla Walla, Columbia and
Garfield counties. Spokane will give
him a very large majority over Mc-
Bride. Whitman county, Pend
d'Oreille, Grant, Klickitat and Kitti
tas counties will be close, with the
chances more favorable to the Gov
ernor than to the Republican candi
date in all of these counties, with
perhaps one exception.
"In the northwestern part of the
State I had expected to find a very
strong Mcßrlde sentiment, as I un
derstand he formerly lived there, but
in my judgment Governor Lister will
carry Whatcom and Snohomish coun
ties, with Skagit county being any
body's up to the last minute. Pierce
county will give Lister a majority of
not less than 5,000, and it may reach
10,000. The rest of the Southwest
will be nip and tuck, with Lister car
rying the most populous of the coun
ties and Mcßrlde may get a few of
the smaller ones.
"In my judgment Governor Lister
will go into King county with a ma
jority over Mr. Mcßride of not less
than 25,000. And the most rabid
Republican I have met has admitted
that King county would be very close
as between the two candidates, with
the 'wet' element going down the
line for the Republican candidate and
the 'dry* element lined up solidly for
Governor Lister.
"President Wilson will carry this
state by from 2ft,000 to 40,000," he
predicted. "Some people to whom
I have made this statement extend
me the laugh, but they had better
withhold their chuckles until after
the count."
Thurston county has $135,559.82
cash on hand, accord}gg to Treasurer
Fred W. Stocking.
•j* •$» *s*
v O. A. R. LEADER URGES +
❖ VETERANS TO VOTE *
❖ FOR WILSON. *
<■ WASHINGTON, D. C., Nov. *
•!- 3.—That every Q. A. R. vet- ❖
eran owes a debt of gratitude ♦>
❖ to the administration of Presi- ❖
❖ dent Wilson, is the declaration ❖
♦{• of Colonel John McElroy, of •!*
❖ this city, a life-long Uepub- •>
lican and for 32 years editor
of the National Tribune, offl- •>
<« cial national organ of the ❖
•> Grand Army of the Republic. •>
Colonel McElroy has refused *
to go on the stump for ❖
Hughes. ❖
.j. ,j
DEWS TO HOLD
BIG RILL) HOIIOIII
ROUSING GATHERING TO CLOSE
CAMPAIGN -V POLITICAL
MEETINGS OF WEEK
Local Democrats will close the
campaign for the re-election of Presi
dent Wilson and Governor Lister with
a monster rally at Central hall in this
city next Monday night, the evening
before election, the women joining
the men in plans for making this the
largest political gathering of the cam
paign here.
One of the most enthusiastic Demo
cratic meetings of the campaign was
he'd at the Strand theater lp.st Sat
urday night, in celebration of "Na
tional Wilson Day," when John S.
Lynch read the President's special
message for the day recounting the
record of the administration, and
Robert Bridges, of Seattle, gave a
characteristically stirring address.
Wtlson-Lister Meetings.
Rousing Wilson-Lister meetings
have been conducted every night this
week, beginning with a meeting ad
dressed by State Committeeman P. M.
Troy at the A. L. Brown ranch Mon
day night. Tuesday night Mr. Troy
spoke at Spurgeon Creek, while E. N.
Steele addressed a meeting ?t Rain
ier; Wednesday night J. W. Brislawn
and John S. Lynch spoke at St. Mar
tin's college; Thursday night Mr.
Troy spoke at Yelm and J>hn S.
Lynch at the South Bay Grange hall;
Friday night John S. Lynch and
Harry L. Parr are scheduled for a
meeting at the Hunter's Point school
house, while Mr. Troy is to talk at
the Delphi school house, and next
Monday night P. M. Troy and J. W.
Brislawn are to conduct a bis meet
ing in the Odd Fellows' hall at Te
pino.
j So far as the local county campaign
jis concerned, the week has been the
busiest of all. in spite of the incle
ment weather, with meetings in va
: rious precincts of the county each
right by the Non-Partisan pnd Re
publican candidates. Friday night
the Non-Partisan candidates have
scheduled meetings for Puset and
!f!ate, while the Republicans *vill hold
forth at Bordeaux. Saturday night
the candidates go to
Maytown and South Union, while the
Republicans join In a oig meeting at
Tenino, when there is to be a free
| dance and "feed" after the talk-fest.
The Non-Partisan- Meetings,
i Monday night the Non-Partisan
candidates held a "meeting at Turn
water Tuesday night at the A. L.
Brown rsnch at Nisqually; Wednes
day night they were at Rochester and
Grand Mound, and Thursday night at
.Tenino and Skookumchuck. As In
j the past, the candidates have been
1 conducting these meetings them
selves, the principal talks being made
i by A. S. Catom George P. Yantis and
jC. P. Hicks.
| The Republicans had a meeting at
South Union Monday night, at the
Forest school in the Eureka district
Tuesday night, and at Delphi and Mc-
Lane Wednesday night. At these
meetings Clark V. Savldge and T. L.
jO'Leary generally were the speakers,
; assisted by a glee club. Thursday
they brought CJeorge A. Lee, one of
the seven defeated gubernatorial can
didates. to the city for a speech at a
local theater iti the afternoon, at
'which Mrs. Frances Haskell also
'alked. and took Lee with them to
| Cnion Mills and the Browr. ranch
: that night, while another delegation
jof them went to Bucoda for a
meeting.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
BOSS CONTROL OR POPULAR
GOVERNMENT—WHICH?
County Issue Resolves Itself Into Question of Breaking Grip of the
Hopkins' Machine on the Courthouse and Establishing Govern
ment by the People Direct—Beware of Last-Minute Sensational
Scarehead Articles—Vote for the Best Interests of the County
and Elect Capable, Independent Unbossed Officials
The biennial political campaign will be ended next Ti esday.
The past month has seen and heard the usual clamor, the usual asser
tion and denial, the customary charges and counter-charges. The
last few days have witnessed more spirited publicity of this char
acter; very likely in the three or four days that will elapse from the
time you get this, our last issue of the campaign, and you enter the
polling booth, more sensational, more preposterous, perhaps more
mendacious assertions will appear. These are to be expected.
Don't let any eleventh-hour scare-head articles —the dirty
weapon of the politician who "hits below the belt"—don't let such
last days' charges swerve you from your best judgment and your
determination to vote for the best interests of your count}- The
issues of our county campaign have long- been made. They resolve
into the question of government by the Hopkins' machine or by you
yourselves—of ring control or of officials free to do what they think
should be done and responsible only to you.
Break the Hopkins' Machine.
This newspaper has not attempted to dictate to you. It be
lieves that the "grip of the Hopkins' machine on our county affairs
should be broken, that our county offices should be eliminated from
party politics, and our officials chosen solely on the basis of their
individual merit, and it has stated that belief. It has tried to keep
the usual "mud" out of this campaign, believing that it should be
fought out on the clear-cut issue of boss-control vs. candidates
courageous enough to stand on their merits, independent of any «
party or machine obligations.
There are a number of candidates on the Republican county
ticket whom this newspaper admires personally; it has no ose for
them officially because of the way they are lined up. These affilia-.
tions were of their own deliberate choosing. They cannot excuse
their allegiance to the Hopkins' machine; rather do they flaunt it
in cur faces.
We can end such tactics in Thurston county next Tuesday. By
voting against every candidate on the Hopkins' ticket we can re
establish here government by the people, we can free our coulfty
affairs from boss control, we can clean out the court-house ring,
b<eak the machine, and establish beyond further serious attack the
principle that we demand the right* of electing as our official.- thosa
candidates whom we think best fitted for the places they seek, con
sidering first whether they will maintain our interests always fore
most.
The way to do it is to vote the Non-Partisan ticket next Tues
day. Those are the candidates who spurn boss control, who are lead
ing the fight on the Hopkins' machine, who are courageous enough to
stand on their own merits, who are individually capable of compe
tently and satisfactorily serving you in the positions tp which they
aspire, and who, above all else, will be independent, free to do a*
you want them to do and responsible only to you, because they will
owe their election to your confidence in them individually, and your
endorsement of the non-partisan movement. They won't be under
obligations to any state committeeman, to any machine, or to any
party—only to you.
We believe you should vote for them—every one of them.
❖ Think About This When You ❖
❖ Are Voting fop Represen- •£♦
❖ tative Next Tuesilny. 4»
•> Olympla and Thurston ❖
❖ county are interested in the ❖
❖ capitol. If Ernest Lister is *s*
❖ re-elected, as he undoubtedly ❖
❖ will be, and all of the Repub- «5*
❖ lican candidates for the legis- ❖
•{• lature from this county are ❖
❖ elected, Olympia will not have ❖
❖ a member of its delegation on *J*
❖ friendly terms with the gov
❖ ernor, because of the attacks ❖
❖ that at least two of them have ❖
❖ gone out of their way to make <•
❖ on him personally. *Bv
❖ Laying aside all other con- ❖
❖ siderations, the best interests ❖
❖ of Olympia demand the elec- ❖
❖ tion of A. S. Caton as repre- ❖
❖ sentative. If a situation ❖
❖ should arise in which it would
❖ be necessary to consult the <■'
•S» Governor, Mr. Cator. could •£•
❖ confer with Ernest Lister on 4*
♦S» most friendly terms. He ❖
❖ could represent Olympia In ❖
❖ the Governor's office as well +
!+ as In the legislature. ❖
❖ The possibility that a Re- ❖
❖ publican might be eleited *>
❖ Governor dees not alter the ❖
•S» necessity of electing Mr. *s*
❖ Caton, for this one reason ❖
alone. Rather will Olympic's ❖
❖ representation be strength- ❖
ened if ho is elected, for If 4*
•{• Lister is elected, Mr. Caton Is <•
•{• the only man who can v.-ork ❖
•{• with him: If Mcßride is ❖
❖ chosen, Mr. Caton can vork ❖
j<« equally well with him. •?*
A vote next Tuesday for the ❖
!•;• interests of Olympia and 4*
Thurston county demands a *
!* vote for A. S. Caton for rep- ❖
I* resentative. *fr
Vote for Independent Officials.
LOCAL WOMEN BOSY IN
CAMPAIGN FOR WILSON
I<eague of 250 Members Holds Enthu
siastic Meetings This Week.
The past week has been a mighty
busy one for the 250 members of the
women's Wilson-Marshall league of
this county, with meetings Saturday
and Monday nights and Thursday and
Friday afternoons, and from eight to
a dozen women at the headquarters
in the Martin building every after
noon and evening, addree&lng and
sending.out campaign literature for
both President Wilson and Governor
Lister.
One hundred and three women at
tended the luncheon given by the
league last Saturday noon, "National
Wilson Day," at which Robert
Bridges, of Seattle, and Thomas P.
Horn, of the state tax commission,
were the speakers. Mrs. E. W.
Olson, president of the league, pre
sided. And more than 100 women
attended the meeting in the Martin
building Monday evening, addressed
by Charles Drury, of Tacoma.
Thursday afternoon Maurice Lang
horne, of Tacoma, and George P.
Yantis talked to another big crowd of
women, and Friday afternoon A. S.
Caton and Mr. Yantis were scheduled
to talk at a meeting at which the W.
C. T. U. members of the city and
county were special guests.
raying Keel of First Ship.
Work of laying the keel for the
first ship to be constructed in the
| local shipyards was gotten under way
this week, while much of the machin
ery needed in the work has been in
stalled. The second slip is also prac
i tically completed.
Publ"becl
Continuously
For 55 Years
WHOLE NUMBER 2932
