Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
P?PJFTX- ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 3, 191G
AWVUtll 9xm
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 3G8
NO "MUDDLE OF MEDDLE"
POLICY OF MR. HUGHES
IN FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Candidate Asserts the Right
Of All Citizens of America
To Indulge In Discussion
ck..
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ALBANY. N. Y.. Oct. 2. Charles K.
Hughes tuld audiences In central New
Yurie today, the last day but one of his
campaign tour, that he had no apolo
gies to make for his attack upon the
administration with reference to the
maintenance of American rights and
that he proposed, if elected, to make
the American flag the symbol not only
o: courtesy and justice, Imi of firmness
and consistency in maintaining "our
kni.wn rights on land and sea."
The nominee assailed the administra
tion for its alleged failure to aid in
the development of American trade
airoad by upholding American rights,!
haraclerized as "unwarranted," sug
gestions that a vote for him meant
vote for war and declared that In
American relations w ith foreign nations
he was opposed to a "muddle of .
meddle."
At Ratavia. the first stop of the day.1
Mr. Hughes asserted that he had entire
confluence In the result of the elec-;
tmns in Indiana and Ohio. In his speech
here tonight, the nominee defined polit
ical leaders. The meeting here was
presided over by Win. Barnes, former
republican state chairman. i
Mr Hughes spoke at Oneida, Am
sterdam. Schenectady nnd Troy on his
way here. The addresses at Oneida and
Amsterdam were five minute talks. In
which the nominee reiterated briefly his
attitude toward the chief issues of the
day. The speech at Schenectady was
(cfore an audience that had awaited his
arrival for more than an hour. Many
persons were turned away from this
meeting uriable to gain entrance to the
hall.
"our optnents do not seem to like
the Idea of criticism with respect to In
ternationa policy " Mr. Hughes said in
his Schenectady speech. "But I beg to
remind them that an American presi
dent is elected for a term of four years
ml iindee our Institutions, at the con
clusion of that term, the American peo
ple express tnelr nvnds.
"When a matter is so Important as
the maintenance of American rights it
i- nigtily necessary that an American
opinion ahould tie expressed and I have
-
FIRST DUTY
OF GOVERNMENT
vants of their own private interests ;
who take their lives In their own hands
for their personal ends. j
"The dignity of American citizenship.
of one who is lawfully following his vo- j
cation any where his rights are recog- ;
: nixed by our laws and constitution j
I as pertaining to American citizens .
throughout the world. These are not
' gifts for the administration to bestow
' or withhold in its discretion; rather
these are trusts to be sacredly
I guarded.'
.Mr. Hughes assailed the udminis
jtralion f .r its Mexican policy. He de
clared that the question of recognizing
I Hiiena was "beside the mark" and
not -in issue. "And I refer to it only
because of the very cruel and unwar
rantable suggestions that an approval
of my candidacy is an appeal to war,"
he said, "as though our opponents had
in some way acquired a monopoly of
peace.
1 mean to omphalze that the policy
of the administration has been, in ray
Judgement, not a tolicy of peace, but
rather (etty and unjustlfyable war
fare; nnd 1 propose thai we have a
policy which shall have as its corner
stone, first, that we shall not have a
muddle of meddle, as Disraeli once
said, but that we shad have protec
tion of American lives and property,
and (he prosecution of a consistent
policy which cannot fail to evoke re
spect while it safeguards the rights
of American citizens.
"We hear a great deal of talk, not
only with rcsKct to ieace. but with
respect to prohpcVity. The interesting
thing about il is that these sugges
tions, which are Intended to have
political effect, when examined nnd
considered and analyzed, lead to Just
the opposite conclusions which those
putting forward the suggestion intend
to present to the public mind."
Mr. Hughes assailed the Adminis
tration for the I'nderwood tariif, de
claring that after the war. American
enterprise would have to te protected.
"The simple proposition." Mr.
Hughes said, "as presented is shall
we lower or protect American wages.
We have got a condition which con-
commission provided for by the ad
ministration. "I am glad." the nominee said, "that
a tariff commission has been pro
vided If they thought a little more
of it peiha,s they would have made
frr.ntt i,u nnd m'arv ai.r tu,lnr of
no apologv to make in standing oejoir fiff.lirs mUM, realize that American
oU and in saying that If I am elected ,, go far lnv prjng out of
president. I propose that the American thp European war nnd the prosperity
flag shall not te only a symbol of cour- lt na, created are doomed to be
tv. a symbol of justice but It shall- ,ar.te,i when that war ends."
1-e the svmboi of firmness and consis- j,r Hughes referred to the tariff
tency In maintaining our Known rignis
on lend and on aea throughout the
orld.
"That la not a policy that leads to
war. There never has been a time per
h..r,. In our history when it was easier
to keep the American nation out ol war permanent commission instead of ap
than during the past few years wnen parenth-a temporary one.
every nation engaged in the great strife tariff commission could not pass
abrond desired our friendship, and laws, however," Mr. Hughes con
would not by reason of any assertion of tinned, "and unless the democratic
our Just rights, forfeit that friendship. ' party believes in protection, he feared
"I desire to see American enterprise thv were without principle, so far as
advanced throughout the world. I want the tariff was concerned, for Ameri
to see In the coming days of keen com- can industry could not be protected
mercial rivalry, representatives of by a turiff for revenue only."
American Industry carrying their tal-j The nominee summarized the prin
ents to the service of the world In for- clples for which he stands for, ai
e.gn lands. It is Idle, however, to ex- follows-
pect success In that direction if we do; "I want to see the American govern
not have full protection of those who ment in Its adminislranon represented
TOLKDO, Nov. 2. Col. Theodore j
Roosevelt, In a speech here today,
told one of the largest crowds that
ever gathered in a Toledo public
hall that he tame here to "give the j
reasons for the faith that is in I
him." He asked support of Charles !
K. Hughes for president and aid In
making the congress and senate of ;
the L'nited States such as will back
him up. ;
"I am here in no partisan sense,"
declared the speaker. "I am ap
pealing to all good citizens to save
the country from ruin.
"I believe In certain reforms." he j
said, "but before we can work re- j
forms within the nation we have I
got to be sure that we have got a J
nation. !
"There is another principle that
we cannot too jealously guard and
that is that we see to il that, our j
public servants mean what they say j
anil keep their promises after elec- ;
tion. I
"We must protect ourselves from '
men who say one thing at one time !
and another thing at another time,
and do none of the things none of !
the time. I
"I'reaident 'ilson has unexam
pled switching facilities. The first
duty of any government Is to pro- j
tect the lives of its people. Mr. Wll- .
sun has said that he is too proud to 1
fight. I saw the other day by a
Wilson paier that he said th"re I
may be circumstances under which i
he might fight and the things he is I
illiug to fight for. i
' "Mr. Wilson says he Is going to
! do some fine things in the future. '
Do It now, Mr. Wilson or keep siiil." j
n n
HE GAVE US PROSPERITY. THE HEADACHE WILL COME LATkR
U'opyrlght: 1916: hy John T. McCutcheon.J
COL ROOSEVELT
BAKER
i,l HIT'
E
represent our interests abroad.
by the ablest men that we can com-
I .m amazed to have any one sup-jmand in any department. I want to
loe that we can prosper In the ex-1 see the government under a financial
tension of American trade throughout i system which will promise economy
the world if our f!a is onlv an Irivita-1 instead of extravaganc e by a sound
tion to come home. Men who before businesslike budnei method. I want
election are described as having the! to see the merit system maintained
best genius in the world and as doing a' and its principle faithfully applied,
outy t humanity should not be in dan-1 -ter.
after election, oJwhig -called sr-' .Continued on Page Three)
PREST lH
ENDS CMKN
II METROPOLIS
O.lcifcij Dully Oritur.
"II PEACE OF J GENTLEMAN"
Bill IT II SGflRED GENTLEMAN
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ALBANY. N. V... Nov. 2 Charles
K. Hughes, shaking here tonight de
clared his belief that he would win
the elcdorlal votes of Ohio, Indiana
nnd New York, and asserting that he
v .is " looking forward to the responsl
l ibties ot administration." outlined
with regard to the "essential condi
tions of national leadership. "
Mr. Hughes addressed on audience
1h.t had waited nearly three hours
to bear lilm.
"The executive is the guardian of
the national honor." Mr. Hughes de-
icred. "He has his own Judgement
almost exclusively as his guide, and
he is not supposed to exercise that
Jjdjement except in conformity to the
well estiblished principles of the in
ternational law.
"It is not a whimsy he should con-
'-r tt la not a loose generality, a
conceived service to humanity that
h uilJ enngage his attention. It is
hi duty to n.lopt and follow correct
principles of international action rec
ognized by the nations of the world
and thus malntaain the res?ct to
which we are en'itlcd and giving us
an opportunity to have a growing In
terest thiouyh that esteem by which
Indeed we can maintain our rights
and in the end truly serve humanity."
Mr Hughes replied to a statement
! a recert speech of President Wil
t.n ? fol'ow:.: "lt Is not that we
should he truculent. It Is not that we
should go about with any braggart
sertion of power. It Is not that we
should engage In blus'er. I like the
.i tare. . "ih per.ee of a gentleman,"
but It is the tieuce of a gentleman
veMing his rights, quietly and calmly,
loisfni'd alert In his self respect and
ready to maintain them. That Is the
peace o a gentleman."
In his speech here tonight as in
other speeches during the day, Mr.
Hughes declared that "there never has
been a time perhaps In our history,
when it was easier to r;eep the nation
out of war than during the past few
years, when every nation engaged in
the great strife abroad desired our
i friendship and would not by reason of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CLEVELAND. O.. Nov. 2. Attacking
I'reaident Wilson's attitude toward
Mexico and scoring the president's re
cent Buffalo address, Theodore Uoose
Velt tonight addressed a large throng
which filled Central armory. He also
addressed an overflow meeting" speak
ing from the city hall steps to a crowd
which Jammed Kast Sixth street.
Roosevelt arrived here at 7:3'J o'clock
and was escorted to the armory by a
large torchlight parade. The streets
were crowded with spectators who
cheered the former president. At the
armory, he was lven an ovation.
Former Senator Theodore E. I3urton,
Former (Jovernor Post of Potto P.lco
and Mayor Henry Davis preceded
Roosevelt on the program.
Roosevelt referred scathingly to the
alleged remarks of Scretary of War
Paker concerning the soldiers in Wash
ington's army, and told the big audience
he was glad to present his plea for sup
port for Charles E. Hughes. In refer
ring to President Wilson's Buffalo ad
dress and the democratic administra
tion's attitude toward Mexico he said;
"I want to register my protest against
Mr. Wilson's mess of the militia and
the diplomatic service for partisan ad
vantage. If the president says we are
in Ignorance of our foreign relations,
he Is bound to enlighten us. If he
doesn t tell us now, there must be some
reason for it.
"He says: 'We are not afraid to fight
for something as big as an American
Ideal." What does that mean? Does it
mean he wouldn't fight for a murdered
baby? There were Iu3 babies on board
the Luaitania. Is there anything bigger
In American Ideals. He sent Boyd and
Adair Into Mexico and lift them. He
wouldn't back them up.
"What does Mr. Wilson mean by be
ing bigger than American ideals. What
can be bigger than protecting men and
women horn under the American flag or
naturalized under U?
o
CUBAN PRESIDENT PROCLAIMED
SEP1TE
BREAKING IT
AMONG GREEKS
Deutchland No Mail Boat
For The United States
Republican A. P. Ltastd Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Nov. 2.
When the German undersea freighter
Iwutschland approached New Iindon
harbor about midnight Tuesday, the
l'nited States government dredge At
lantic narrowly escaped running her
down. It was learned tonight. Ac-i-ording
to the Atlantic's skipper, the
in nets or sunk, the officials declared
that since t ie outbreak of the war
Germany has lost only twenty sub
marines, including the Bremen.
o
ALL'S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
After months of strife between the
adherents of former Premier Venizelos i near-accident was due to a mistake in
and adherents of King Constant Ine reading the code signal lights. The
over the question of Greece's stand In ! dredger, which was off Eastern Point,
the war, a revolution of considerable j made out the lights of the submersible,
proportions has broken out in the re- which was coming nearly head-on. The
glon southwest of Salanlki. Six hun- Atlantic kept Its course, expecting the
dred insurgents, probably followers of l)eiitschland to steer outside; when Bhe
Yenlzeloa, forced lf.O royalist troops I did not. the Atlantic swerved to one
to evacuate Katerina and retreat upon ' side and slowed her engines down
I-urlssu, forty miles southwest, in I passing the leiitschland with
Tbessaly, where they are expected to i one hundred yards to spare,
receive reinforcements. The troops ' The manifest of the Deulschland's '
have received orders from the king to cargo was filed at the custom house j
prevent at all costs, the advance of ' here late today and it will not be made
the revolutionists. public for some time, officials of ti e
On the fighting fronts important I F-astern Forwarding company said.
successes have been obtained by the i I'nloadlng began this afternoon, 100 j
French In the regaining of Fort Vaux. I selected negro stevedoers wheeling out
northeast of Verdun; by the Italians hundreds of small boxes and piling
in a further push forward In the Gor- 1 them in the warehouse on the wharf.
Izla and Carso sectors through which I Eight of the freight handlers came
iney are trying to reach Trlest and
by the Germans In Volhynla. near
v itoniez. where Russian positions
were stormed and captured and twen-
QUIET ON.
THE BATTLE FRONT
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
LoNixiN. Nov. 2 the bulletin Is
sued tonight from British headquart
ers In France Heads:
"Todav the enemy shelled our front
in the Hebuterene and Arras regions.
Our artillery was south of
Armentircs and north of Y'pres.
"A number of enemy batteries were
bombed vcsterd.i1 bv our aircraft;
about i one hostile machine was driven down
damaged. One of our machines is
missing."
NEW ARREST LAWS
ty-two officers and 1.50S men were
made prisoners.
The Transylvania theater is witness
ing a continuation of the armies of
the Austro-C.erm.-ins south of the Koth
enthurn pass, while In the Jml vullev
the Rumanians are keeping up their
pursuit of the Teutons.
There is still no news concerning
any aswrtlon of our Just rights, for
feit '.lift friendship."
The nominee was an hour late in
reaching Albany. His address here
was further delayed by a street
nersde, many1 blocks long, which he
headed, fin his wav to the hall the
nominee was cheered by crowds on the
sidewalks.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HAVANA, Nov. 2. The re-election
of President Mario (5. Menocal. the
conservative candidate, at yesterday's
election, wa. claim! by the secretary
of the Interior Aurelio Heavi tonight.
The pro-lnces of Pinar del Rio,
Matanzas. Santa Clara nnd Oriente
have been carried by the conserva
tives. Secretary Heavi asserted giving
President Menocal S(i electorlal votes
out of a total of 1.1.'!.
The Liberal party lenders, however,
continued to clnlm the election of Dr.
Alfredo Zayns, former vice-president,
by a large maturity.
(Continued on Page Three)
Marina Evidence
Expected By The
End Of The Week
No Prepardness Until The
Nation Is Dry Says Hawly
A VFHvTi (t , ,2t nd Htr,pM ov'r,"1 ,he "Peaker's table,
ZANKSV ILLK. Ohio. Nov. 2 Thor- f onted from ,.-iiir, .i '
ough preparedness for war will come In tween posts and a huge fla was nbme,!
thecnlted Slates only when the nation In the center of a stage drop curtain
Is dry J. Frank Hanly, the prohibition Flag draped motorcars met the sr.eak-
eannlrlufe fop rirel.lun ,lA..l..-A.l .. I .... '
f-""""!, u"iiru I....UJI.-IS ai uie station, ine crowd wns
in Washington, Pennsylvania, a city j large.
forty years without liquor, Just before, Ira Landrlth, the vice presidential as
crossing the Ohio line for a night meet-. plrant," InslslAd at Altoo'na and other
Ing here. As proof of his statement, he, points that federal liquor licenses no
declared that 15 per cent of rejected longer are warranted even to meet the
applicants to the army can trace their emergency for which they were cre
disablllties cither directly or indirectly . ated. The government "went Into the
toll,'1 ,; , 'saloon business' for the st.le purpose of
The city hall auditorium was fittingly paying the civil war debt, he said and
draped for a preparedness speech, Stars that is paid.
here from Baltimore where they helped '.
discharge the boat's cargo after her j
maiden trip. The boxes were of varl-
ous sizes, the smallest being a cubic J
I'hic anu cue inrgesc eigne ami len
cubic feet. The cargo proper, exclu
sive of he precious stones, Is said to
be wortr one and one-half million dol
lars. J he dyestuffs brought over will
L , 'jirbped to commercial houses in
New York, Boston and Philadelphia.
The remainder of the freight will be
stored here temporarily.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMSTERDAM, (via London). Nov. S.
Advices received from Berlin say
that the Reichstag committee, discuss
ing the bill regarding preventative ar
rests on suspicion during the war. has
adopted a motion asserting the princi
ple that the German citizen during a
stale of war should only be placed un
der preventive arrest or ordered to live
in a certain place If this is absolutely
necessarv in order to avoid danger to
the empire.
WOMEN WELL RECEIVED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
! WILMINGTON. Del., Nov. 2. The
I Hnirhes women's ramonitrn soerLit was
Dr. George Ahrens. an attache of the! here for several hours today and the
German embassy at Washington, spent speakers addressed a large gathering
considerable time with Captain Koenig I on the courthouse lawn. Governor
on the Deutschland today and received I Charles R. Miller vfesided at the meet
five pouches filled with mail and a ) Inf." and" introduced the speakers. The
Kpeaaers were well receiveo.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YROK, Nov. 2. With t vo
great rallies here tonisht President
Wilson closed, his campaign for re
election except for a Mpech he will
deliver to New Jersey friends ami
neighbors at Shadow Lawn Saturday
afternoon. From the time he arrived
In the city this morning he was gn-' t-.
fd by cheering crowds wherever Ua
appeared.
In four Kpeeches here, three tonij-'ht
and one at a business men's luncheou
in the afternoon, he reiterated hi.:on
ception of the great issues which o i.
front the United States. He appealed
for principles of progress which won id
help the "obscure" men and women :.f
the land, arraigned the "Wall Street''
interests, which, he said, seek to dom
inate, and pleaded tor equal right.!
for all men.
The president's cominsr gave th"
democrats their first opportunity of
the campaign in this city for oil
fashioned political enthusiasm on :t
big scale. Torchlights and red firo
blazed In Fifth avenue, as the hosts
of Tammany Hall, headed by Cbarle-s
F. Jurphy, advanced uo n Madison
Square Garden, which w:is besieged
by a tremendous crowd before theL
errival. Two hours and a hay before Mr.
Wilpon was due to arrive ft the his
toric cardt-n, police reserves werj
strivir.sf vainly to hold bnck a sn"s
itiiT thrcng striving for places of van
tage whichAvculd make entrance e'i-y
nfter tho doors were thrown open.
Holders of reserve seat tickets strove
vainly to reach the entrances.
The seating capacity of the trnrde-i
had been increased, hut it "teemed that
after the doors were closed art!
last inch of room nccui'i"d, t lie si.-'
of the throng outside1 had not lo!i
perceptibly diminished. In t!;e cruh
alxut the doors many women flirted.
Similar scenes were enacted at
Cooper I'nlon. At this meeting st.
clal provision had been made for
young men not of voting ose who had
marched in tho parade with de'.-sa-tions
from Tnmmanv and other dem
ocratic organizations. AutrtiM'M
Thomas presided at the Madison
Square Garden meeting. The firt.
speaker was Samuel Seabury. candi
date for governor of New York. H
was followed by Wm. F. .Mci'imb-,
candidate for l'nited Sta'es Senator,
and former Governor Martin H.
Glynn. All of them commemlej tfi.
policies of Mr. Wilson wh'ch. had
"brought peace and pros i verity."
The Mexican memlwrs of the
Icin-American Joint commissi!, ao
compnn'.ed by their wives, occupied
f. Teats on the platform.
When Mr. Wilson was recsnized as
he aopeared on the platform. th
crowd rose and cheered steadily for
thirty minutes. Small American fines
fluttered from thousands of waving
hands. In the intervals when tlie din
slackened, patriotic airs were suns.
"It wcmld be impossible to say nnv
th'ng worthy of the welcome' rou hac
given me," bepnn the president. "I
realize that we stand at one of the
most serious turning noi'its in th"
history of the l'nited States and the
world.
"This campaign has disclorsr. sorr.n
line of division in the l'nited State;.
Here and there it ha shown ni"'i
aligned against earh other. Tl-.i v. il!
he ominous for the future unless it it
checked."
A hand outside plnytns "The p.d.
White and Blue." interrupted tho
president. "T can't compete with tho
'Red, White and Blue," " he said paus
ing. Some one 'n the crovd shouted:
"V.'e trust you, Mr. Wilson," and t'.p
cheering started again.
The president said the camnaipn in
1912 represented a fi.sht asainst priv
ilege and the tsnme was true now.
"I want you to realize'." he contin
ued, "that another sort of division n as
appeared in this country. lt is be
tween those who employ la'or and
those who perform labor. Notlvn-r
could be more dangerous. We must
see! that justice is done to workim?
people. This is not a matter of ntae
sentiment, but a matter of human
risht
"There is also another d'Viio.i.
Some mfn have grown so unscrup
ulous that thev have souaht to lis
cre'it their own government in tudr
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 Conclusive
evidence as to whether Germany vio
lated her pledges to the ("nited States
In sinking, apparently without warning,
the British freighter Marina, with the
loss of six American lives Is not ex
pected by the state department before
the latte." part of next week. Secre
tary Lauding tonight said Information
was coming in slowly and that at least
a week was expected to elapse before
full evidence would be at hand.
Even though all Information desired
from British sources nnd American sur
vivors of the Marina were at hand, any
action by the l'nited Slates govern
ment would be delayed pending Ger
many's reply to the note. In previous
instances where such a request has
been made a week or more has elapsed
before the attacking submarine has
come In nnd several days further have
been needed to collect and transmit the
Information. American officials In
England have sent only a few dis
patches in the last 24 hours, not Includ
ing any affidavits or summaries of af
fidavits. Secretary Ijinslng explained thnt the
state department held that Germany'
pledges not to sink merchant ships
without proper provision for the safety
ot persons on Hoard applied to mer
chantmen armed for defense as well as
to unarmed vessels. Germany's last
specific word on armed ships, however,
was her memorandum announcing that
they would be treated as war vessels,
nnd the fact that the Marina carried a
4.7 Inch gun Is expected to play a con
spicuous part In the exchanges that
will follow If It Is" established that she
was attacked without warning.
box. Questioned as to whether the
I leutscbland would carry mall back to
Germany he said:
"Why should she carry l'nited States
moll over? If the l'nited States can't
get mail to Germany it is time tu
stop."
Officials of the forwarding company
suld it was unlikely that any mail
would be sent by the submarine ex
cept official communications. It was
also said that the Ieutschland would
not carry any medical supplies to Ger-
many.
Commander Onvld Boyd and Com
j mantler Yates Stirling of the l'nited
States submarine base here, lns'Cted
the Deutschland today and said they
were satisfied that she was a com
mercial ship.
An official of the F.astern Forward
ing company ridiculed the suggestion
that the Oeutschland will act as a
"mother ship" to furnish supplies to j 2T,. 4 minutes. Cailstrom also broke,
German nnned submarines. He stated i the speed record for di.st.mcp flying, j
the Deutschland was built solely for ! his average time being about 112 mile. i
commercial uses. miles ttn hour.
Concerning reports that numerous A defective joint in the gasolln
German submarines had been caught 1 feed connection forced the aviator
to gain a partisan advantage.
(Continued on Page ThreT
Sonv
I
Mill FLIES OVERLAND FOR
LONGEST DISTANCE II HISTORY
to
Net Result Of Conference
Not Pleasing To Mexicans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J Nov. 2.
The net result or the nine weeks of
conference of the 'Mexican-American
joint commission which adjourned to
day over the election until November
In, in that the Mexican commissioners
have learned that any agreement hy
the commission must cover not only
the policing of the frontier, but Mex
ican Internal affairs, it was learned
today. The American commissioners
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , descend at Erie for repairs nnd a
XKV YORK. Nov. 2. -Victor Carl-1 fresh supply. After resuming iliclu.
ytrom, flying in the New York Times! he found it impossible to reach New
mail-carrying aeroplane, failed today j York lefore night and came down at
in his attempt to tly from Chicago to I Hanimondsport, thus adding K5 miles
New York without a stop but broke I to his day s flight, making a total '
the American cross-country Tion-stoti ; about 635 miles. He expects t corn
reel rd wher. he flew from "Chicago to plete his Journey tomorrow mornin r.
Fi-ie Pa., a distance of iSO miles in i Carlstrom started from Chicago "it
7:i!te a. m . eastern time. 1 i'en o'
servers stationed along the route, ono
after another in rapid succession, re
ported him over l'lue Island ana Har
vey,. Ills., and Hammond, lnd. Four
teen minutes after he started h
passed Gary. InA. Sweeping rwiftly
over Hobart, Chesterton, Itpor'e.
North Liberty, Sllllersbnrsr. Inn. nu t
Wnuseon, Ohio. He reached Mauniee.
Ohio, 38 minutes ahead of his schedule.
After passing" Oak Harbor, OMo,
Carlstrom drove for the shore' of Ijiki
Erie, passim,- south to Port Clinton.
If? skirted Sandusky to the south an I
then passed over Huren. He flow
over Vermilion at 10 a. m.. eastern
time, nnd Ixrain ten minuP-'s later.
Then came Geneva, the last pi w in
Ohio to witness the fllgftr.
Once across the Pennsylvania tin
he passed over North Glrard and thru
.wept on to Erie- He got away from
there at 2:10 n. m. after landing at
11:26 a. m. He was sighted over
Bath, N. Y.. at 4.07 and doseen'ea it
Il.immondsport at 4:24. He e!iect? to
resume his trip to New York at i" a.
m. twnorrow and complete the flight
three hours later.
Insist that nny. adjustment must denl
W'tth tho basic, principles of Mexican
government
The Americans hnve made it plain
to the Mexicans that before General
Pershing's troops are withdrawn, Mex
ico must demonstrate that the Pres
ence of American troops along the
border or even in Mexico is tinneces
rary to prevent raids by bandit. The
American commissioners have largely
Increased their knowledge of actual
conditions in Mexico.
