Indiana State LikraTjr
.
- - . I I..
Vol, 5u.
Iasvek, Indiana, Fthjä, NOVEMBER 3, 1916,
No. 9.
WOODROW WILSON
President of the United States
t :-.;.
ri i M
L MS
1 wr rmmi
THE COLE APPEAL.
1 THE WEDDING OF ROMEO D JULIET IN Tü
ll CHLL AS PR.ESE N TED BY FRANCIS X. BUSHM.c.r-:
Among the many impressive jScenes in tl:e ' ' z-
of "Romeo and Juliet," in Which jcranci. " . .
tion
:C S? :TI:.i1
.1 Ever
toughout
Cummings
Bavnc, the foremost stellar combination in r..c'
is the wedding of the famous lqy.ers in .Fr r
deta;l has been caretuiiy worKea out: tor tin? ?;o , a.
the entire eiffht parts of this marvelous produLiii:. Io'jci
t)lavs the role of Friar Laurence.--'He has been associated with Mr.
Büshman and Miss Bayne in manyprcvious features on the Metro pro
gram, and was among the first castfor a part in. "RomccLarl Juliet," in.
which more than six hundred players appear
(Editorial In the Christian Science Monitor.) -
"I concur with Judge Chase's construction of the statute. 3 But I would
go farther. I deny the power of the Legislature in mnkn. ft: n rrimn tn
: treat disease by prayer." This Is thn
Judge of tue New York Court of Appeals, Willard Bnrtlett, fel'e judgment
of that court in the Cole case. Mr. Cole, it will be rememWd, was a
Christian Scientist practicing, according to the tenets of cmjplan Science,
in the City of Xew York. He was prosecuted for "practicing medicine with
? , aurhorizatirn and registration," and was found sulTtv by a jur'
in tno?wor court, the judge's charge leaviDi; this juiw no option. He ab",
pealed w the highest court of the state, which has reVersed the judgment
of the lower court, in the decision made public last Tuesday. She full text of
which has only just become available, and which is prlnU d jhu our issue of
today, the text of the present judgment was prepared budire Emorv
A. Chase, of Calakill. and was concurred in by Judge Cutback, Juüö
Cardozo and Chief Judge Bartlett. The result of the appoifTis tchnicallv
to order, a new trial, but in effect it is to make it legal for Pg-Uian Seien
tists t practice healing in the State of New York, provide fetheir practice
their'church1 "l accordance with 01(3 rlSi?us tenets of
The aöt regulating the practice of medicine on wh?4 ffi? nrmsLfiiif ion
:was based contained an Avoontinn
construed to affect the practice of the r.-Hsicwts of anv
enureü. In spite, of this clause the lower court cnar-sed th&trw in thee
terms: "If you find from, the evidence in, this case tiu,4 th'A'tftlo .at dfd
engage in the practice of medicine as alleged in the iiuc:4nl, .;thin tb
definition which we have given to you. it is no defeiu. Umt did what h
did from any sense of duty, or that he did thce acts : i ti' fcfaciiee of tue
religious tenets of the Christian Science church." The Cof of 4ppea.
now decides that this charge was error, and that the cxrc'Hi'jKfoad bv tbo
Legislature, was intended to exclude from the prohibition of statute the
practice of the religious tenets of Christian Scic-nce and o;her f'-urches.
J It must be obvious to everybody that Mr. Cole was not practicing medi
cine at all. His practice was not based on physical diagnosis, but on the
spiritual racts ot being. He was relying, as the Chief Judge points out in
a
w
J3 V -
I
3
c JA
WSW
w
0
4&
"J& HAS KEPT US OUT OF WAR"
1 his is the face of a man strong, courageous,
patient and kindly, a man
Alwmys alert to the aspirations of his fellow
man and synir ;hetic toward their fulfillment;
Never co:n iacent toward the encroachments
of privilege or tolerant of social wrong;
Always seeking to enhance the dignity of
labor and better the state of the toiler;
Never lending an ear to the sophistry cf ex
ploitation or the blandishments of expediency;
Always patient to hear and weigh, to ap
praise and analyze, and passionate to find the
way of right;
Never premature in purpose nor prejudiced
in judgment, and never headlong in decision
' Such is WOODROW WILSON.
Hwi;;., jlYlilMr inMMMMnr " , .fÄ r yiD lAUCU Vl v"il-" 1L uvuiuubuaios m uie neanng 01 the sick. This, of c ourste,
Ir'rvtg;'.- WiiraaMMBMMMwii i iÄtS7; v:- it . A"- - "iuiv ua tue jjuisecuiion Willen ü rove 118
;''PHBbPW 7" MllMfTiiy, ffftiipmi! f ' England into the New World. The church ot Charte
t! 'HBi' 10 " WW 1 movheöter. thr liked tbitlntaslmE WgMaWr'
' '
his memorandum, on prayer as understood in the Christian Scjeace church
and if the exception in the statute did not refer to him it Winiri nnr t-a
well refer to anybody at all. The fact is that to punish a dt&en of a Chris
tian country for acting in accordance '.vith the teaching of tie Bible wou'd
be an outrage .o gross, and fkc!i a travesty of religion, thatUt could onlv
come about through an exhibition of sectarian bias. It may ätsibly be an
open queshm for some people whether the healing of the smi by prayer is
a Christian responsibility or whether it is not. It mav beg Hear to ?oino
pnople that the divine command to heal the sick lapsed, ft'-some incom
prehensible way, in the first or some succeeding centurv. These, however,
are questions of religious teaching; consequently, unless some church or
cntirches are to be allowed to settle for all the other churches what the
intention 01 uu -.nK-rs of the Bible was, every church inusfcJe allowed to
mt rpret the for itself. If this were not so, the Episcopalian would
ht: f-i :; ontUleJ io decide that no church should be considered Christian
"w vi . iuc ivuumu rttiium: umiifii woiiiri no os-n .v
entitled to io d that no church which did n- t believe in the Veal presence
or in the coiuesrion should be regarded as Christian; the Baptist, that total
immersion was a fundamental test of Christianity, and sion down the
whole line of all the sects.
When, therefore, the Christian Science church accepts the
full com
mand of the Bible to preach the gospel and to heai the sick! instead of cut
ting that command in two and leaving the preaching of the Gospel to tho
church and the care of the sick to the medical nrof-ssion thr. iWv nh
which differ, themselves as to the gospel to be rreached, would have the
right to denounce Christian Science as un-Christian for preaching a ronel
- ,,.,, ;,.,, -
i
f
tice of Christian Science healing would be to reperpetrate traction of tte
ixuiiiau hluuhu cnurcn m passing such statutes as that b"de heretico
coml 'rendo," v.hich is to say concerning the burning of $fr;etics, or tho
ordintaces lathered by Laud for the regulation of religious-or8hip. The
' Roman Catholic church declared to the early Protestants, veil must thhilc
as wc do, or wo wil torture you first and then burn von. Üie Church of
Engird declared , to the Protestant Dissenters, you miist (K'as we do, or
we will possibly torture you, and certainly deprive yon oS ÄU your civil
rights. Even when Nonconformity got the upper hand, "Wpomily, in
England, ajid permanently in New England, it proceeded tolSSllow in 'the
footsteps of its predecessors by imprisoning the Quakers, lujd by settling
the exact pattern of Nonconformity which was to be regun&.fl, as orthodox
The Anglican church decided that the tonsure was what it Called Roman
istic, and that a priest should let his hair grow and wear afniculiarly fash
. ioned flat cap. Nonconformity discovered that this very (i? .had Roman
' istic tendencies, and that the tenets of true Protesta'nif&M demanded a
steeple-crowned hat. These were not mere vagaries of jf$ ecclesiastical
fashion. They" -'were as serious theological questions as thBealing of the
; sick todäy.-siud were so felt about, and roused passions eiully as fierce
: When the -various acts of religious disability had faged to produco
unity in the English church, the dominant party fell back qji "its last argu
ment cf expelling the recalcitrant clergy from their livings? just as, unaer
comparatively t.milar conditions in Scotland, the Scotch ifinister's were
driven by the I resb terians from their manses. So todav. &tjn it is fni'.irt
,that Christian S cientists cannot be persecuted out of their ouiiions, there is
emotional roles, and Mr. Cabannc, who ian attempt to prove that they have no right to be paid tofc. -their 'minist -a-tory
wich the gifted ycung star in mind. ilions' because Khose ministrations combine healing the MdCSfith preaching
q gospei, msieau or nemg conuneu only to preaching the' gospel. To bo
id for praying for the sick and the sinner, in short, Ls dejfofinced as com-
TRANCES NELSON A POPULAR. SCREEN STAR WHO MAKES HER. DEBUT ON THE
METRO PROGRAM UNDER. THE DIRGCTICN OP W CHRISTY CAE.ANNE.
1 .75 FOUR MONTHLY MAGAZINES $f .75
Frances Nelson, the beautiful and talented stac ar 1 screen artist, hag
been engaged by- Metro for the ctcllar role in the elaborate five-part Metrc
Roife feature, "Love, Honor and Obey," now in production. V. Christy
Cabanne is directing this feature, and JMiies .Mciza heads an exceptionally
strong supporting cast.
Miss Nelson's forte lies in strong
conceived the production, wrote the story wien tne gutea yeans
Miss Nelson has been starred and featured in many l"j screen productions,
includ
of Society,
She was
With, i nomas A. Wise, Jlcw .bieiC.s ana ener p-- - pinye
ing "The Family Cupboard," "The Revolt," "ür M Urnivocd," "Sim
" "Love's Crucible," "The Sfcolen oiccf rrzv iii- Mouse cf Fear."
well known on the cc.ci'c z?.i v-cr: r.5 riciurss. appcannrj
the
paid
mercialism. To be paid tor praying for the sinner onljiÄhj regarded aa
strictly ortLodox. and from one point of view perhaps it roHy is.
That, however, d es not appear to have been the viev?ioT the LetrteJn-
luiu ui twv o v ui iui iY, aiiy, iib me juug were carul to
Get The Most For Y cuf Bfioaey
By taking advantage of this remarkable offer now. you make a cush saving
of $1.10. You &et a year's subscription to onr paper aPvl to these four splendid
magazines n total value of $2.85 for only $1.;5.
This offer is opGn to old end new subscribers. : you r.ro already a sub
scriber to any of these rnafcnzines, your subacripaoa will be cxtendad one year
from data of expiration.
This offer also includes a FREE dress pattern. W-en vou receive your first
copy o Today's, select any dress püttern ou de.;re. send your order to Today's
i-i.idut, jJYuijj viiuiu me öixe ana iiuraoer o cra pattern ana tney win sena n
to you free of charge.
Never before has nny newspaper been able to offer in a &i zincs of such hih
character at this price. We are proud of this otlar and we tire you to take
advantage of it at once.
S8nd Your Order Balers Yeu Forgst If $
The Magazines Will Sisq Prompt! When Ttss Is Up
758
vi .
i
Read the COÜ.LUER
11
T ' II"
gISSUES-
GREAT
SERIALS
OR GROUP STORIES
Stones upon Siorie and plenty of them. Actioi.
uie, aü venture, run, ratnos, laspiratioa.
The Youth's
anion
nmnt Mit
they were ' e.e no to make the law, but to interpret it. law imiowi '
was made to protect tho:e who desire ordinary medical treatment against
the fraudulent practice of that form of medicine. It is tnot intended to
throttle iher shu's of healing after the manner in whiMv? the religious
F-t of -J e pr.s: atumpied to throttle all manner of disseSp The medical
sci-'-'-'ls id hare no fC3r of Chrintian Science, provided th-can d better
Lc.: las CI :n ian Scientists, and they had far better OjBftte thoir ener
to doias thr.t healirs than to the persecution of tfce- exponents of
rao.her tre rr! of healing because opposed to their theorie 5 On the othr
hind, if tjo themselves fail to do better healing than Chrfgüan Scientists
Itbpv n., -,ore Drevent the spread of Christian Sciencfeeachlng thaa
Dame I'ariirTton could tnmdle back the Atlantic with her dift
I
Uinx Ulm One Ücrttejs
e looks," ?aldl
; V. Jt ,r
will malce IP 1 7 a Great Stor' Year. Besides
the G:cat Serirls and 250 Short Stories,
there i r rait ,xcial Pages for each one.
Family l?ne, exceptional Editorial Page,
Boys' Prge. Girls' Page, Children's Page,
Doctors Corner. Current Events, Nature
and Science, Travt Information, etc.
Everything from everywhere for every
one in the family.
THE YOUTH'S COSPAMIOM. St. Paul St., BOSTON. MASS.
CUT THIS GUT
SN
and send it (or the name of this paper) with
$2.00 for The Companion for 1917.
and we will send you
1 LXlLLs (OMPAMON Tor lOltf.
PI?FP Tilt; COMPANION HOME CAJL
riXL KNDAIC for 1017.
TT4FN The Fifty-Two Weekly Imim of
1111 IU,1U'A.IU. 1
s . i :W, m J
m WEM 5rf I
, r jr j l ' i Mm', mm mrmmmm n iwtmm i
MM.
Mm
SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED AT THIS OFFICE
Chatty Old Geutlemffn (as they past
ii9 asylum) We 'get an excellent rlw
iC tht asylum from the railway.
Escaped Lunatic Ah, but yo oujftt
m mm ÜM rmihrsj trout tbm my
tin Would
j "Tf he'.s as ood t
; Lord Archie, "he'll
"Thry him, er hflBr, thrr him'
said Delaney confiffötly. -'Tve a
grand field and plenlvV jumps.,
The colt was FaUed, and Lord
Areliie mounted. Jjfirst galloped
tround the field, abfirf twenty acrei
ui t;A Lcii l, ana xnenjpii mm over a
couple of hurdles, ajjppde turf fenea
nid fipallj a stonewall quite five
feet iiihL King Brjspi jumped like
a stag, he could go a;good pace, antl
his mouth wms perfecfion. 1
"How about water P' asked his
fordship.
"Wather, is it?feaid Delaney
ith supreme disdfrfe "Sure, if tre
put him at the ri Shannon ins
wouldn't balk." f
,rDo yoü think hekear it?"
"WeU, no, yer jütinor," replied
Delaney thourhtfuSSf "I wouldalt
o as far as that, -jjfct, bedsd," he
added, with an air of conviction.
j "what he didn't jump hand rwimP
London A us wen; .
qr
w
W1
