Tie Mlral BemwMt
First
Section
Tenth Year,- Number 24
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916
$1.50 Per Year
Sixteen
Pages
THE BATTLE IS OVER
So tar as the weight of the cam
paign rests upon the shoulders of the
weekly newspaper boys, it Is now a
thing of the past for two years at
least, and we leave the fate of the
candidates entirely In the hands of
the voters. The Democrat has put up
the best tight It knew how during the
past few months, and whether we
win or lose we are glad It Is over and
we can give politics a rest for a good
long time. We dearly love the game
of politics, and it is a pleasure to
wade Into it up to our neck, but even
pleasure pall if continued too long,
and we gladly retire from the battle
field that has grown so bloody during
the last few weeks. We have every
confidence in a sweeping Democratic
victory next Tuesday from President
to dog pelter, but even should things
turn out otherwise we will not leave
the United States nor spend the
years between now and next election
bemoaning our fate and cussing the
different administrations. We are
tor good government first and party
matters afterwards. Like Alexander
Pope, "For forms of government let
fools contest, whate'er is best admin
istered is best." . The government of
the United States will continue to go
forward regardless of the party that
holds the reigns, and all we ask Is a
seat in the good Car of Progress tol
erably well up toward the front.
Millinery Day at Summers, Saturday, November 4th
Mrs Hattie Merchant of Liberal Is
a new reader of the Democrat.
Mrs. W. V. Griffith gave a party
for the kiddles at her home Tuesday.
John Malone of Seward township
"bought a Bulck In Liberal the other
-day.
H. P. Garrett of Beaver was here
Tuesday to take the train for Nor
ton, Kansas, In response to a message
that his brother's son was seriously
U. . ....
H. W. Magruder, Secretary Broad
well. Clyde Commons and W. C.
Steward were at Roll this' weekM
They .were helping to start a . Com
mercial club there.
Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Green, Mrs. W.
O. Humphrey and son, Leo, arrived
.yesterday from Pratt to spend a few
days at the home of Dr. and Mrs. E.
F. Pellette. They drove down in a
ear.
W. L. Cannon arrived Friday from
Sallna to join Mrs. Cannon, who has
been visiting at the home of Rev.
and Mrs. D. G. MacLennan. Mr. and
Mrs. Cannon are Mrs. MacLennan's
.parents.
O. R. Young, the candidate for
county commissioner of Fargo town
ship on the Independent ticket, was fn
town on business Saturday and called
.at the office long enough to subscribe
and place an ad with us, which you
will find In this issue.
L. Frost, one of the Democrat's
good subscribers of the Lorena com
munity, was transacting business in
Liberal Saturday and called at the
office long enough to put himself
ahead on the books for a considerable
length of yfme.
Right at a time when you are most interested in a hat we are going to offer
every Ladies' and Misses9 Hat in our Millinery Department at
20 Per Cent Discount
Every hat is marked in plain figures so you will have no trouble in figuring the price yourself if you
like. Just take 20 per cent off of our regular selling price, hand us the money and the hat is yours. We
have decided to make November 4th a big day in our millinery season That is why we offer these prices now.
Watch Our Busy Millinery Department Saturdayt November 4th
Mrs. Pearl Deurmyer, an Artist in the Millinery Game, Will be Here to Meet You
"38 Years Successful Merchandising Has Taught us How to Serve You Better"
DRY GOODS, CLOTHING,
GENTS' FURNISHINGS AND
SHOES
ii.ji)ri,mjtjiM r, 1 j
ESTABLISHED I87B
LIBERAL, KANSAS,
GDYMON, OKLAHOMA,
DALHART, TEXAS
EZRA SHORB BUYS FARM
Ezra Shorb, the hardware man on
Second street east, recently bought
of the Griffith & Baughman agency a
halt section of good land northwest
of the city a short distance.
Mr. Shorb wilt
expend consider
able money In
improvements. A
large elegant res- -idence
is to -be
erected and will
be modern In ev
ery respect. Mr.
Shorb has been
In the grocery
and hardware
business in Lib
eral for many years, and while he
does not intend to leave the hard
ware business, he expects to do a
little farming. He Is one of the old
timers who has ever held to the be
lief that this is a good agricultural
district, and Is proving his faith by
buying this tract of land. In the
deal the city property has been
turned In on the purchase price of
the farm, and In a short time the
Shorb family will be at home on the
farm. The trip to and from the
store will be made In the Shorb car.
Fred Tucker, who has been in the
well business for a number of yean,
having drilled 287 wells In the vicin
ity of Liberal, has recently purch
ased the Allison farm north of Obern
and will begin at once to erect new
farm buildings. Mr. Tucker Intends
to have everything strictly modern
and up to date in the way of farm
equipment. 4?'
J. R. Hall, a prominent farmer and
stockman of Holslngton, Kansas, and
his wife are here this week visiting
their two sons, Leo Hall, who Is as
sistant cashier of the First National
bank, and Wlldall Hall, bookkeeper
at the office of the Liberal Light,
Ice ft Power Co. ' -
' - AT HOME NOVEMBER 9
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. McDermott, who
celebrated their golden wedding two
years ago, will be at home to their
friends on the evening of November
9. At the Golden wedding anniver
sary a 400 day clock was presented
the couple, and on this occasion the
clock will be wound up for another
year's run. The male quartet will
again be heard and a pleasant even
ing will be enjoyed.
MARRIED
S. H. Ortinger and Miss Flora M.
Brooks were married In this city,
October 29, 1916, by Probate Judge
Campbell. About twenty guests
were present to witness the cere
mony and participate in the dinner
which followed the ceremony.
E. D. Cooper, manager Land and
Lot Credit Department of the office
of John W. Baughman, this week
sold his Bulck six touring car, to be
replaced by a Bulck six Sedan or
dered through the Eldson Auto Co,
The change is made to provide com
fort In showing real estate during the
winter months.
WWJ
2r
1 11 if 1 c.i 1- tl" ::'c r r i
lV - I ,LU wwuiihcs. 1 11c are rar rrom costly. I
rj The prices run as low as $3. I
Ip& WIMS, M WEIBI :
THE CIRCLE
is the symbol of infinity
of endlessness. Therefore
rings, with the form of the circle,
are used as tokens of affection.
A peculiarly appropriate and sig
nificant custom when the ring given b a
W-W-W ring. For they are literally
the eternal ring. If a setting comes out,
or is cracked, it will be replaced free of
charge. So your ring is always certain
to be continued the same as h was orig
inally, if it is a W-W-W ring.
We have a laroe selection of rwant,'
fid examples. They are far from costly.
I he prices run as low as $3.
1
()? ' :
l r ,r7 1
V -'"''', -
'If
A I
FOR CONGRESSMAN
To those voters of Seward county who heard Congressman
Shouse's speech In Liberal a tew weeks ago, anything we might say
relative to his candidacy would be superfluous, as the Impression he
made was the most favorable and the account he gave of his stew-,
ardshlp in congress during the past two years was perfectly satis
factory. However, there are a number of voters In the county who
failed to hear him either at Liberal or Kismet, and it Is for their
benefit that a tew words in his behalf might be said. Mr. Shouse
has been an ardent supporter of President Wilson's policies at all
times, and served on committees during his first term that numerous
congressmen fall to land after serving a decade in the lower house.
He is a man of brains, unflinching courage, loyal to the present ad
ministration, and a man who, both in personal and official life, Is
clean and can always be found laboring faithfully for the cause of
right regardless of consequences. Mr. Shouse has a considerable
Republican majority to overcome in the Seventh district, but if the
people over the district appreciate faithfulness, progresslveness,
ability and a clean bill of health so far as past performances are con
cerned, they will re-elect Shouse and snow Simmons under so deep
an avalanche of votes he won't dig out in time for the 1918 primaries.
C. A. B. CROSS DEAD
C. A. B. Cross, aged 70 years, died
November 1, 1916, at his home in
this city. He had been a sufferer for
years and death was due to a com
plication of diseases. He leaves a
wife and a large family. For years
he was employed at shoe repairing,
but lately has been at the soldiers'
home. The funeral services were
conducted at the Christian church
yesterday afternoon and the body
was attended by the I. O. O. F. to
the Liberal cemetery.
AMERICA'S "LOST HONOR"
They say America has lost Honor 1
Amid the clash between the greatest military Powers on
, Earth at least four of which possess an armament far
: jrreater than America can provide within the next six years
WOODROW WILSON HAS ASSERTED AND SECURED
RECOGNITION OF MANY AMERICAN RIGHTS OF
BOTH LIFE AND PROPERTY WHICH, IN THEIR RECK
LESS RIOT OF PASSION, THE WARRING NATIONS
HAD INFRINGED. To attain the greater ends of Civiliza
tion in a world that has reverted to barbarism, President
Wilson would be justified in sacrificing the mere property
rights of a few rich Americans. But Woodrow Wilson has
not sacraficed ANY American right. It is true that he has
not insisted upon the IMMEDIATE recognition of some
such rights. For instance, he has not plunged the Nation
into war to secure IMMEDIATE collection of MONEY
DAMAGES. That is the whole case of the charge that
American honor has been lost. That and only that.
Again and again, thanks to Woodrow Wilson, America
has been enabled to speak through the roar of the cannon
and the groans of the maimed and dying with the clear,
pure voice of Reason and Justice and Law. VOTERS, HAS
AMERICA LOST HONOR?
There is a great 'car shortage. This
is because the commerce of the coun
try has become so heavy not be
cause of the weight of Hughes's
speeches.
A Real Man
It is pretty hard to assert your inde-.
pendence and defy the world, when you
have an empty stomach and an empty
pocket book.
The prudent man who has saved a
little and has a reserve at the bank is not
so afraid of sickness nor a coward about
being out of a job. A bank account is a
stimulant to real manhood. Surplus is not
what is earned, but what is saved.
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. 3. Government supervision and control.
