mm
VOLUME 62
Number 40
PAW PAW, MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916
Whole Number 4244
FINE APPLE ORCHARD
SOLD TO LOW & CD.
DON IGNORE EITHER
AMENDMENT TUESDAY
REPUBLICAN STATE TICKET
6
WILL CLOSE TQUR
OUT LAST SUNDAY
EVENING MEETING
STRGNG DAM WENT
Informal meeting tit Maple
City Club. Everybody
is invited.
BOTH HAMILTON AND SLEEPER
Concert hv liloomingdttlt- Itund.
Come unJ cnjov the closing
meeting of i-.impnign.
Today and tomorrow will close the
campaign in Van Huron county, so
far as the republicans are concerned.
An automobile party including Con
gressman Hamilton, Hon. A. E. Sleep
er, the county candidates and many
republicans from all parts of the
county will make a big tour of the en
tire county. The Bloom ingdale band
will accompany the party and give
a conceit at each stop. The tour will
start from Gobleville with a meeting
at that place at 8:00 this morning.
From there it will make Ploomingdale
Breedsville and Bangor where a stop
will be made for dinner. The party
will arrive at South Haven at 4:30 p.
m. and hold a"treet meeting at fcliat
hour. Here they will remain over
night, for a monster evening rally.
Saturday morning the first itop will
be at Covert at !):00 A. M. then Hart
ford where they will remain until
after dinner. Lawrence comes next
at 1:00 P. If. then Decatur, LawtOfl,
and Paw Paw. The party will arrive
here at f:00 P. If. for a concert and
street meeting. Then in the evening
an informal meeting will be held at
the Maple City club rooms. The band
will remain for the evening meeting,
refreshments will be served and a
general good time is anticipated.
Remember that this is a non-partisan
meeting. Every one no matter what
may be their political affiliations or
beliefs are most cordially invited to
this evening meeting at the club
rooms. It is expected that many
auto loads from every precinct in the
county will join the party. It is
planned to make this the biggest and
"best polftical auto tour ever held in
the county. Plan to join, enjoy the
music, meet the candidate- and enjoy
yourself. Remember this is the wind
up of the campaign. Lets make it a
hummer.
ALL NATIONALITIES
WERE OUT IN FORCE
Mrs. Harry Waters was hostesi on
Hallowe'en to about fifty of her
neighbors and friends. As it is the
custom on such an occasion to give
all honor to the witches, goblins and
black cats, all were masked, and such
a conglomeration of mixed up human
ity was never before out on dress par
ade in Paw Paw. GypeieSj Chinamen,
Irishmen, German!, and many of the
colored race were all there. Con
spicuous among the latter race yas
"The sinkist Minstrels", resplendent
in dress coats, white vests and trous
ers, not even the stove pipe hat was
forgotten. Many contests suitable
to the occasion was enjoyed by all.
( Laai but not least was the "Ghost
March" which led up stairs, down
stairs, out the back door, through the
barn and over to the home of Mrs.
H. P. Waters, where many tables
loaded with good things to eat were
found in wjfiting, all decorated for
the occasion. A two course luncheon
was . served the hungry mob of for
eigners, and at the most "spooky"
time of night all departed for hone
loud in praise of the success of the
erenhlffl pleasure. Mrs. Waters is
never found wanting in any partic
ular, but on this occasion she limply
eclipsed herself.
AT THE KALANAZQO HOSPITALS
We regret to say that there i
(juite a colony of Paw Paw people at
I he prewnt time in the Kalamazoo
hospitals. Among those now there
for treatment are, Russ Oillespio, Mr
Oliver Smith, John Dorsey, Mrs. J. B.
Adams, Miss Mary Rich and Frank
Butterfield. The patients are all do
ing nicely, and while we regret the
necessity for being there, it is nice to
know that there are such splendid
hospitals so close at hand where
patients can receive scientific nursing
and care.
The "Keepsake" orchards, owned by
David McCann have been sold to The
George M. Low Co., of Bangor. This
company is made up of Dr. Edwin
Low and his son George. They have
made a phenomenal success of the
fruit raising and now own upwards
of one bundled and sixty acres of fine
orchards.
"Keepsake Orchards" are among
the finest in the country. They con
tain over a thousand trees all in full
hearing. The property is a most de
sirable one, and we understand the
consideration for the forty acres was
$10,000. Mr. and Mrs. McCann are
estimable ekisens, and while The True I
Northerner has not been advised of I
their future plans, we join with the j
entire community in hoping that they
may decide to remain in Paw Paw.
AFTER ELECTION
For Civil Cases. Sum
mary of Court tor
Past Week.
The case of The People vs. Glenn
Woodruff charged with bastardy
which was on trial as are went to
press last week, resulted in a verdict
of "Not Guilty."
The jury will be dismissed this
week until after election. On No
vember 8th, they will come back to
hear the case of Dunkley Co., vs.
The Michigan Central Ry. Co. This
case will probably require the balance
of the week. The case set to follow
is Emma Cargill vs. M. U. T. Co. and
The Pare Marquette Ry. Co.
Fred Lansing who plead guilty to
violation of Local Option Law was
sentenced to serve thirty days in the
County Jail, and as he had already
been in jail sixty days, it is the same
as a ninety day imprisonment.
Henry Taylor who plead guilty to
Carrying concealed weapons was fined
S2.").00.
Luther Sly, who plead guilty to
Statutory Rape, was sentenced to j
Ionia for the term of six months to
eight years, with a recommendation
of one year.
Albert Pish, who plead guilty to in- I
decent Liberties,- was sentenced to
Jackson, nine months to four years, !
with recommendation of eighteen
months.
In the case of The People vs. Min
nie Rockwell, charged with murder,
there were grave doubts in the mind j
of the Court as to her sanity, and he
therefore appointed a Commission,
consisting of Dr. Stone of Kalamazoo,
a specialist on insanity cases, and Drs
Hoyt and Maxwell of Paw Paw. to ex
amine the said Minnie Rockwell and
report to the Court. An examination
was made on October 27th, and quite
a lengthy report w as filed, it being ;
the opinion of the examining physic
ians that she is mentally irrespon- j
sible and should be accorded the
status of an insane person. Her rase
w ill probably be remanded to the Pro
hate Court for regular commitment
to the Kalamazoo State Hospital.
GRADUATED FROM OUR SCHOOL
The True Northerner is in receipt
of a letter from A. J. Hutchins, a
former Paw Paw resident who has
hern located for many years in Massa
chusetts. He has just resigned a
Pastorate at Attleboro, Mass. Clip
pings from the Mansfield News speaks
in the highest terms of Mr. Hutchins,
and tells of the splendid work he has
done during his seven years as pastor
of the Baptist church there. Iff,
Hutchins graduated from the Paw
Paw school in 18S7, and will be re
membered by main old friends here.
HORTICULTURAL MEETING.
The forty-sixth annual meeting of'
the Michigan State Horticultural
society will be held in the city of
Grand Rapids on December 5, 6 and 7,
1016. A splendid program has been
prepared with speakers of both state
and national reputation.
JURY GOMES BACK
jb
MssWLWL..-.z km Ftmmm- n
Auditor General Ar 7 j VAJ v )tli7remc Court Justice)
Editorial
X
W
f
4
DO N T BE SHORT SIGHTED TUESDAY.
The Campaign is about over. This is the last call so far as
The Ti ur Northerner is concerned. Next Tuesday is the day, that
will tell the story. To our mind this is the most important elect
ion in the history of our country. Mighty issues are at stake.
W e have had four years now of democratic administration under
President W ilson. We are familiar with his Free Trade policy
and his foreign manipulations. W e also know the Republican
Protective policies and the attitude of the party on foreign quest
Ions as expressed through the nominee Charles Evans Hughes.
There has never been an election to our mind, when republicans
had a greater duty to perform, or where the results will be as far
reaching. The situation of course is somewhat different than it
has been in previous campaigns. The country is prosperous not
withstanding the administrations Free trade policies as set forth
ifi the Underwood law. This condition is due to one thing and one
alone, and that is The Great European W ar. Produce of all kinds
is high, on account of the great foreign demands for our food
stuffs. Labor is high, on account of the millions and billions of
dollars worth of guns and ammunition manufactured here and
shipped to the warring nations. But what will be the condition
when the war is el . and what would it have been had there been
no European War? That is the great question. For answer to
tli is question one has only to go back to the sixteen months prior
to August 1st, 1914, The Underwood tariff reduced the protect
ive duties from tw nty-five to fifty per cent and put many articles
of American manufacture on the free list. Dining these sixteen
months, and before the great war began, as a direct result of this
reduction in tariff American Industry was greatly depressed,
2,000,000 workers were out of employment, and over 4,000,000
were working on part time. Importations of Foreign goods in
creased during that time $150,000,000 and shipments of American
goods to foreign countries fell oil more than $1000,000,000. We
had begun to buy abroad the things that we had formerly bought
at home, and as a result our own mills were idle and our people
were out of employment. In addition to this depression at that
time, our revenue fell off until it became necessary, if you will re
member, for the democratic administration to pass a W ar Tax in
times of peace. All this mind you, before the European War was
dreamed of. Then came the war, whioh created an artificial Pro
tective tariff so far M this country was concerned. Due to this
artificial stimulation, American industry has been unusually active
lint the war will soon be over, and then what? If the sixteen
months already referred to can be taken as a criterion or as any
indication as to conditions here at the close ot the war, then this
country under democratic policies will indeed be in a deplorable
state. Then is the time, when protection tb American industry
(Continued on
Page Four)
Don't make the mistake, Mr. Voter,
of thinking if you vote for the amend
ment to article XVI of the constitut
ion, prohibiting the manufacture and
sale of intoxicating liquors through
out the entire state, that you can safe
ly ignore the fake "Home Rule"
amendment to Article VIII, which Lf
adopted, would work the repeal of the
local option law, under the operation
of which forty-five of Michigan's
eighty-three counties are now dry,
and which proposes to pave the way
for saloons in every Michigan county.
If you desire to outlaw the liquor
traffic, vote for the prohibitory amend
ment, but, what is even of greater im
portance to the well being of the
people, vote 'NO' on the home rule,
alias the saloon amendment.
ELECTION NEWS
AT CLUB ROOMS
Operator and Direet
Wire for the Night.
All Welcome.
Arrangements have been made with
I the Western Union Telegraph Co., to
; get the complete election returns at
; Paw Paw next Tuesday night. A
! wire will be put into the Maple City
club rooms, and a machine attached.
1 An operator there will give his entire
j attention to the receiving of election
: news from all over the country.
Bulletins will be read as fast as re
: ceived. This arrangement is not for
i the particular benefit of the club or
! any one political party. All will con
tribute to the expense, and everybody
will be welcome. The club rooms
have been rented, and all arrange
ments made, with a view of making
1 these spacious and commodious rooms
the headquarters for everybody who is
interested in the election returns on
that night. Remember everybody is
welcome. Come and make the Maple
City club rooms your headquarters on
election night.
WHY HE OPPOSES HOME RULE
1 am opposed to the Home Rule
amendment because it leads to the
violation of the fundamental princi
ples upon which our government was
established, namely "No taxation
without representation." For ex
ample: A small village in any com
munity might vote for a saloon.
Drunkenness, and perhaps other
crimes might follow, the expense of
which would not be laid on that vill
age, but on the county at large which
has had no voice in the matter of the
saloon. When a county goes "Wet"
we pay our taxes freely, because we
believe in majority rule, but this is
minority rule, and a very small one
at that.
I. P. Bates
SHOULD BE PUNISHED
The True Northerner rugretl to say
that some one or ones, destrox cd the
steps at the Episcopal church on
Hallowe'en. Innocent fun is com
mendable, but such depredations and
destruction of property is ronrehen
sible. The perpetrators should be
severely punished for such acts of
vandalism.
SI npay school CONVENTION.
The fifty-sixth annual Sunday
school convention will be held in the
city of Holland on November 16, 16,
and 17th, 1916. Prominent speaker
have been engaged for the meeting.
A great feature of the meeting will
be a big parade on Friday morning
November 17th.
BILLIE BURKE I S COMING
Manager Pay Wilson has booked
for the approval of his patrons
Rillie Burks in the celebrated serial
"Gloria's Romance". The first chap
ter of this great serial will be given
on Tuesday evening, Nov. 14. Don't
miss a single chapter of this one.
Seeond time within six
months. Had just
heen rebuilt.
WIlL start new one soun
V, ill probably be ot cement this time.
Hif los to Mr. Strong.
The ringing of the fire bell last Sun
day morning about eight o'clock
brought a large crowd of people down
town. There was no fire however and
no smoke, but plenty of water. The
BU Strong dam near the Lawton
bridge had gone out and water was
pouring over the road and surround
ing the Free, Hall and Mutchler build
ings. The gates at the big dam were
promptly raised and the water was
tarried through with no damage to
property.
Mr. Strong has certainly had bad
luck with his power for the big mill.
When the big Lamphear dam went out
last June, it carried the Strong dam
with it. As a conseguence the big
Strong mills have been idle since that
time. The dam WSJ only completed
la.t week, and the mill started for a
hort run. Now the power is gon3
again, and the mill Is due for another
period of idleness.
I he Loss to Mr. Strong is not only
loss of patronage at the mill, but also
the cost of rebuilding the dam. The
one that went out Sunday cost upward
of $500.00, and the work is all lost.
Mr. Strong states that work will com
mence on a new dam soon if the
weather continues good. The proba
bilities are that it will be of cement
construction this time, as it will not
be profitable to take another chance
on the dirt construction, although Mr.
Strong is unable to account for its
going out this time as there was no
leak and no extra pressure of water.
PAVING IS FINISHED
AND STREETS OPENED
The paving is completed; the elec
tric light posts are painted and the
last obstruction is removed. No
more we hear the coughing of the
cement mixer. The workmen have
parked their wheelbarrows and stack
ed their shovels. The oldest inhabit
ant remembers when the job was com
menced, but the youngest will not live
long enough to see it worn out. ' A
combination of circumstances over
which the council or contractor had
no control, delayed the cVmst ruction
during all the summer months, but
now its done, and it is the best piece
of road on the Dixie or Detroit to
Chicago highway in Michigan. Now
its done. The contractor is entitled
to much credit for the splendid piece
i of paving, and now lets all say Amen,
I and turn our attention to something
else for the betterment, of our beau
tiful Tillage,
in Michigan.
Paw Paw the be; t town
AT THE MAJESTIC SUNDAY.
! "The Girl Worth While" is to be the
(attraction at the Majestic Theatre in
i Kalamazoo the first half of next week
commencing Sunday a'ternoon. The
-tar of this attraction will be Miss
Primrose Semon. a Kalamazoo girl,
i The play was written especially for
; her, and standing room will probably
be at a premium while she is at this
popular play house.
ADVERTISED LETTERS.
Mrs. c Lank
Chas. W. Lang
Fred Picket
POPULAR AUCTIONEER IS BUSY
About the busiest man in seven
counties right now is Hyron J. Rix.
Byron is a little the best auctioneer
that ever went down the pike, and his
-erviees are in great demand. If you
11 contemplating an auction in the
near future fOU will make a mistake
if you do not SOS Hyron J. Rix before
you make any arrangements. He is
the best in the land. Then to make
the sale a real success, come to this
office and let The True Northerner
advertise it. Our circulation will in
sure you a crowd, and Rix will do the
rest.
