II
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN COUNTY. OREGON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3rd, 1916.
NUMBER 37
NEWPORT and marches and ghost stories were
. the order ot the evening. Everyone
TheNatlonal Campaign Is now at ,,, t ,v' ,h(, nnrt- ,nd
hlteheat The Democrats are trying one helped t0 make it pleasant and
to keep themselves In power and the
Republicans believing the country
would be much better off, are trying
to change the Administration. The,
Cleveland Administration and the his-
enjoyable for all.' These social meet
ings do much good In the way of gett
ing to-gether and being more frater
nal and social
Mr., and Mrs. Stuart of the Life
tory of the country for fifty year. SaylnK Servlc6( ,ndi fter ttle
how that whenever the Democratic EarnMt( iephrU) this morning to San
party gets in power we have hard t0 tev for ft lons t,meper.
times. The country is very unsettled nap, aU wlnter. Tha pBptaln hag been
now, and business is parallzed. While ,n poor hUn for several montnB and
the East. Is prosperous on account of goe t0 btreated ,n the hoBpital. .
the European war. the West Is under Hon WaUef Tooto Pre6ldent,
a cloud of adversity, and no money Hugheg Aniailce wlu gpeak at Newport
lnclrculatlon. Another four years of th8 poHtlcal ,BSU of the
Democratic rule would be disastrous. Tnur8day evenlng at elght O.clock m
Ltncouln County as well as the state the odd FelIowB Hall Mr Tooze
is saieiy witnin ine nepuoncan column.
The Democrats' eulogize the Adminis
tration and compare Mr. Wilson with .
Abraham Lincoln. . But this Is an in
Vlii'ous comparison. During the Civil
War, and before, the Democrats, com
acii'oi to malign and abue Mr. Lin
coln, calling him all kinds or .'J: n
lolis names. I don't think It Is in
fonfl taste now for the Democrats to
eulogize Mr. Lincoln. He was a Re
publican a man of the people rais
ing by his own efforts from the moBt
humble circumstances to the highest
office within the gift of the American
people. He went down to his grave
mourned and honored by all the
world. I think It would be more ap
propriate to compare Mr. Wilson with
James Buchanan who could sit quiet
ly by and and let the state of South
one ot the best and most Interesting
speakers in the state. He speaks from
a P.ipuh!!eah standpoint. ,
A l aMcwpcn party was also held at
ttie Nyc Crck Ilest and Reading
1n:ini. A limvh win served and a good
H. G. Rhoades, H. O. Weaver, G. E.
Lewis and Mrs. A. Peterson made a
trip to Newport Tuesday.
J.. M. Bowers was a Yaqulna caller
Tuesday.
Mrs. J. M. Bowers visited at the J.
C. Huntsucker home Wednesday.
Hilda Rhoades celebrated her first
birthday Sunday,
L N. Huyett made a trip to Poole
Slough Wednesday.
0
LOWER FARM
A. C. Crawford spent Saturday and
Sunday at tipper Farm buying cattle.
conple of gentlemen from New
port were on their way down to Mr.
Mowerys' last Saturday on a fishing
trip. When Just about a mile below
the Lower Farm school their machine
quit, being unable to start It again they
phoned to Newport for man to come
and make tHe needed repairs. About
two o'clock the mechanics arrived but
owing to some difficulty were unable
i We will tell you all about It next
Issue.
' Halloween passed off quietly here at
Toledo.
John Henderson was up from the
lower bay last Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. Al Waugh were New
port visitors Monday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. H. O. Guild spent sev
eral days at Newport this week.
REGARDING OUR
COUNTY CANDIDATES
The Republican party has an excep
tionally strong ticket In the field this
year and hundreds of voters in the
county are going to vote the ticket ,
straight, from president to constable. '
but we believe, on election day ho will '
see the error ot his way and vote tha
Republican ticket straight.
Carl Moore went vo Portland Mon
day.-
Mrs. J. H. Jessen was a passenger
As next Tuesday Is election day we tot the Valley Tuesday.
believe that It would not be out of Fred Wagner ot Nortons had busl-
place, at this time, to give a little , nesa In the city Tuesday.
personal history of each of the candl-1 Th. a,.ndav ,, .ervlce will be con.
Dudley Trapp ot Chltwood had ':168' M ome of them mlght not De tlnued throughout the month of No.
business in the city esterday. r J, , , . AIJ . . .vember.
ICE. Hawkins is our candidate for
A. T. Peterson last week sold a new District Attorney. Mr. Hawkins has LOST-en auto chain, between To
Ford car to Al Taylor of Newport, Iwn a resident of the rountv for ledo and Slletz. Finder please notify
Call and see the Fall and Winter I twenty or more years, and this 1b the
Hats now on display at Fredericks. "rst time that he has ever sought pub
! . . I lie office. He has been a practising
;J. H. H. Andersen of Newport has , aUorney here at ToMq mogt of that
had business In Toledo this week. tmo and hag bcen very gucceB8ful ,n
.Fred Wagner of Nortons attended j conducting his cases. He Is a good
time wu )md. Manv funny ghost ! to trt the engine, so pulled the dts-
At,ciA ..iii! told. The spooks and
witches wire visible on nil Bides. The
room wu.i partly dark and you could j
near the spooks and spirits as they
flitted around.
WEST YAQUINA
Mrs. P. E. Sheppard and children
, T ......... . . nA ,1.-,. 1.A-.. laet
1)1 .HUIIlllllfllV, iaODU INIU IICID WD. j
Thursday enroute to Bayvlow where
they will make their home this winter.
Mrs. Sheppard Is a daughter of K. Hen-
Carolina secede without even a protest 1 drlckson of that place.
.Had he been firm and patriotic, like The Misses Myrtle and Stella Willis
"Old Hlckery", by the Eternal be , ot 0,18 Place are tending school In
would have made these fellows come . Newport
back. Mr. Wilson started a war with Thus far, hopes for a better run of
Mexico and then backed out He or-; "laou season have failed to ma
dered Heurta to salute the flag and i terlallze tho the fishermen are catch-
be would not do that and so to keep
us out of war Mr. Wilson retired; and
Mexico is left to continue her dep
redations and murders. . In this war
about five hundred Americans were
killed. Had Mr. Whson been firm
with the Mexican people this thing
would never have occured. The spirit
Of Washington, Lincoln, Polk, Jackson,
McKinley and Grant seems to be lacking.
Ing them in limited quantities.
Frank Shermer was a West Yaqulna
visitor Tuesday.
R. A. and D. E. Miller brought down
a couple of loads of hay from Toledo
last week.
John Hanlon and Mr. McPharlen of
Beaver Creek made a trip to Toledo
Wednesday.
A shipment of household goods be
longing to W. Hunt who has recently
become a resident of Weet Yaqulna
ubled car to one sldn of the road and
after taking the two fishermen on
down, to Mr.. Mowerys, returned to
Newport.
Mrs. A. C. Crawford and Mrs. S. C.
Young departed Friday for Portland.
Mrs. Crawford Is expected home the
first of the week while Mrs. Young
will remain In the city where she Is
Interested In the Life Insurance busi
ness.
Alvah Strome who has been down on
the Lower Slletz for some time re
turned home Monday.
George Miller and family spent Sat
urday at Lower Farm.
Mrs. Koblelskl and two of her child
ren visited at the Kosydar home Sunday.
0
CHITWOOD
Joseph Bryant of Slletz was over
here on business Wednesday.
John Boren has been Improving his
ranch up on Simpson Creek. He has
lumber hauled to build him a new
house.
J. I. Pepin has been covering his
house with a new coat of paint
Archie and Raymond Wilson left for
me nepuoiirnn meeting nore luesaay.
Jprof. John Dlcuzh was a Newport
visitor last Saturday having como den-
till worlc dr.ne.
Btrlc.t enforcement ot ail vioiationu ui
Mrs. I. It. U'islmrt visited at Elk tno luWi
City last Saturday with Mrs. Harry
Nortons.
business man and we believe that with
Mr. Hawkins in charge of the county
attorney's olfico a great saving will bo
effected for tlio tuxpuycrs, as woll as a jduy cvfi.tng fmm
v( M. n:i
Iiurt Geer Is our candidate for Sher
iff, and needs no Introduction to most
of the voters ot the county. Mr. Geer
has demonstrated In a most sntlnfnc
tory manner that he la well qualified
to fill the office which he seeks, as dur-
. Have you tried the big 10c. loaf of
Holsum Bread, for sale only at Fred
ericks Quality 8tore.
Donald Stewart came down from
Portland Sunday to spend the day,'" hu term of offlce' n0 one ,laa
with his narents i raised their voice to find fault with his
'.work, and when it comes to catching
Mort Abbey of Newport was a paB- !crmlnaig Bert Is certainly there with
senger for Portland Wednesday morn- j goodg You wlu mark your ballot
ta' i correctly by voting X 69.
1 Fred Gee was a passenger for Grants R. H. Howell our efficient and ac-
Wi. Uitohaa oa mflvnr nf tliA pltv nf
New York and Governor of the State Jh" Just arrived from Tulsa. Oklahoma.
made a national reputation for honor
and great ability and by bis splendid
speeches, couched in the simplest ot
language, show that he Is a statesman
of the highest order. The Hughes
sentiment In the nation Is like a rising
tide Is going right along. No mistake
will be made made in electing Hughes
president
Mr. Hawley will be elected by a
large majority and as we expect to
get aid from him In the securing of
arrroprla'.Iona fcr ,'ur harbor lmprov
ments 'jn.ouln C)uuty should give
him a :g vote.
The big ghost dance given by the
Women of Woodcraft Tuesday even
ing. Oct 31st at the hall ot the Rod
and Gun Club waa one ot the most
pleasant and enjoyable affairs of the
eason. The hall was crowded mostly
with young people. The room waa
beautifully decorated with Chinese
lanterns, black cats, Jack-o-lanterns,-
and many other apparitions and de
vices. The room had a very grotesque,
shadowy and lonely appearance. As
the ghost came in draped, in white,
the witches In black, high topped hats,
the devil leading, with glaring eyes,
looked dangerous Indeed. . The room
was darkened and the spooks were
flitting back and forth one felt as
though he waa among Uie departed
spirits In fact This was the hour of
jvlrinlcht. The superstitious no doubt
thought they were passing through a
grave yard. The Plcklns orchestra
furnished the muslo. This was also
soft, sad and lonely. After and be
fore the ghost dance occupied the gay
group of young people, were tripping
the Unlit fantastic toe to the graceful
and languid movements of the waits,
two, three and one step, cheered by
the soft, sweet strains of enchanting
music. The good Lord made the sexes
to be together and enjoy themselves,
A nice lunch of pumpkin pie and cider
was served. The management was un
. dor the direction of Dave Harding, Os
car Peterson, August Blattner and
Mrs. G. A. Schumacher. The grand
march came In the fore part of the
evening'. This was also a great suc
cess.
The Rebekalis gave a halloween par
ty at the Odd Fellows Tuesday even'
lng. A Inrge number of Rcbekahs
. and Odd Fellows were present A
Bice banquet was served. The hall
was nicely decorated for the occasion.
The spooks and witches were In evi
dence all over the room. Flays, games
Pass Tuesday morning, where he ex
pects to work this winter.
County Commlssloner'o. V. Hurt
was up from Waldport this week, In
attendance at the regular November
term of Court ,
f Married: Howard Shelly and Mary
E. Flesher, Waldport Oregon, Oct 25,
1916, by Rev. OUver C. Wells. The
contracting parties are residents of
Tidewater.
S. T.' "Loudon of Eddyvllle wisln
the city this week attending the meet
ing of the Republican County Central
Committee, working for the establish
ing ot a County Agriculturist, and
where Mr. Hunt formerly resided.
o
HARLAN
Sheriff Geer was a visitor to this
section last week, delivering ballot
boxes, and attending other business
matters,
Mr. and Mrs. O. H.-Spencer of the
rtacks Creek District have gone to
Dovltt to spend the winter where Mr,
Spencer is employed.
H. F. Brlggs took a load of pigs to
Turn Turn which he had sold to parties
there.
Clias. Cator and R. L. Hathaway
were business visitors to Corvallls
last week.
Miss Dorothy Martin is visiting
friends In Corvallls, having closed her
school In the Racks Creek District,
October 20th.
Wm. Mulkey was a Toledo visitor
last week.
Houston Grant expects to build a
house as soon as he can procure the
lumber.
Frank Davis list been remodeling
his house and will soon have a roomy,
comfortable home.
Mr. and Mrs. B. t. Grant of Harlan
have certainly a right to be proud of
their life work. Mrs. Grant came to
her present home as a bride has seen
the wilderness develop Into prosperous
farms. They have raised a large fam
ily, all have married, and five boys
and two girls aro settled within a
radaius of three miles of their parents
who would not feel their old age pro
vided for, they can go out for dinner
every day In the week, and what
parents could blame them for looking
with prldo Vpon their stalwart sons
and fair daughters.
Lavera Payne entertained her
friends with a birthday party' on Oct
21st, It being her ninth birthday.
Cottage Grove a few days ago.
Mrs. Maud Smith is spending a few looking after other business.
aays in Newport
Mrs. H. M. Henry came down from
the Jungles Saturday, roturnlng Monday.
Ripe strawberries at
MOORE-AVERY
comodatlng County Clerk la atso a can
didate for re-election. Mr. Howell's
term -of offlce has proven very satis
factory to the tax payers. He Is both
efficient and obliging, two qualities
needed to make a good official, and the
voters will make no mistake In re
turning htm to office.
For County Treasurer, Ira Wade, is
our candidate. Mr. Wade Is known to
most of the voters of the county, hav
lng been, county clerk at one time. Mr,
Wade Is well educated,' and eminently
qualified for the office which he seeks.
Is an untiring worker and will make
us a good County Treasurer.
For County Commissioner, W. F.
Wakefield Is our candidate. "Billy",
as be Is familiarly known, resides on a
farm near Eddyvllle, and Is one of the
most prominent men of that section.
He successfully manages his large
The marriage of Carl Radcllffo
PIvnratflA i 3 - .i t-, i
- .nuui tj ttuu cvamie r tkulcs ATorj nu . . . , .
Fru'It Farm November 1st. . How Is .olemn),ed at Port,and. on Wednesday " J", ?. ltZ! !.
that for Lincoln County T During Sep
tember and October Just past E. A.
Wlldman has picked about thirty-five
gallons of ripe strawberries. The va
rieties are Progressive, Amerlcus, Su
perb and Pan American.
0 :
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES
Service at the M. E. Church next
Sunday at 11 A. M. and 7:30 in the
evening; and on the following Wed
nesday evening the first quarterly
meeting will be held, preaching at 7:30
and quarterly conference Immediately
after.
of this week.
Mr. Moore Is one bf our most prom
inent young business men. Is a mem
ber ot the firm of the Moore Company
best Commissioners ever had by Lin
coin county. Mr. Wakefield Is a good
road enthusiast and his ambition Is to
see good roads In all parts of the
rmintv nAlnir hpnvv fnxnaver htm-
which owns the local sawmill, alsoge,f hg ,g fc gafe man t0 ,ntrugt wlth
muis at ttanaon. He nas maae nis
home In Toledo the past two years,
during which time he has been Iden
tified with the upbuilding and growth
of the Ever Ready Bible Class. He
Is an excellent musician and added
CHICKEN PIE DINNER
The Ladles Civic Improvement Club
will serve an Election Dinner on Tues
day Nov. 7, 1916, In the old Drug Store.
Price 35 bents..
much to the social life of the town.
Miss Avery Is the eldest daughter
ot Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Avery, of 761
East Ankeney St., Portland. Miss
Avery made her home In Toledo for
about twelve years, prior o moving
to Portland about a year ago. She Is
a beautiful and talented young lady
and has a host ot friends In this city.
We understand that the happy cou-1
pie will make their home here In Tole
do for the present.
The Leader joins with their many
friends In wishing them a long, happy
Raval Club Coffea The Coffee vau i
r. .ur. to ilk.. For a.i. oniv .and prosperous married life,
Fredericks Quality Store.
-0
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
Christian Science Services will
I the handling of the county finances.
I A. O. Schwartz Is our candidate
for Assessor. Mr. Schwartz Is a young
man and one ot the successful business
men of Newport. Having been sue
cessful In conducting his own busi
ness, It Is reasonable to assume that
he will make a success of the County's
business. We believe that Mr.
Schwartz, will make us a good asses
sor and that the voter will make no
mistake by endorsing him.
R. P. Goln Is our candidate for
County School Superintendent Mr.
Goln Is a candidate for re-election,
and Is personally known to almost
every man, woman and child In tho
county. Mr. Goln Is a progressive, up-to-date
Instructor and has done much
to put the schools of Lincoln county
on the high plane tret thny are today.
Mr. Goln Is Justly entitled to be re
turned to the office which he fills.
A. J. McMillan Is our candidate for
SILETZ DAY-SCHOOL NEWS
The Scookum Wawa Socloty organ- ,bo held at the building first door iCounty Surveyor. Mr. McMillan Is a
lzr for the coming school year on north of City Hall Sunday at 11
October 13th, and held their first ' o'clock. Subject lesson sermon,
meeting on October 30th. The Presl- Auam ant' Fallen Man,
All are cordlafly Invited.
Sunday School at 10 o'clock,
o
H.
UPPER BEAVER
Mrs. J. M. Bowers vlidted Mrs.
G. Rhoades Thursday afternoon.
Evallna, Hester, Edith and Adolph
Peterson vlsltod at the Rhoades home
Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis and son, Francis
visited at the Rhoades home Sunday
night
A. H. Phetps and son, Clifford of
Onn, were In this vicinity ono day
last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis and son, Francis,
made a trip to Waldport returning
8unday evening.
dent Emll Reginald Dcpoe, sent In
vitations to all the parents and pat
rons of the school through the secre
'tary, Miss Sarah Mattle Adams, and
a very appreciative audience was pres
ent .The curtain went up promptly a 8:00
o'clock, and the following program
was rendered:
1, Song, The Autumn Brings Us
Cheer, Socloty; 2. Rec., October,
Charles Herman J)cPoe; 3. Rec, Going
a Nutting, Elmo Brown; 4. Song, Aut- Horse and saddle In good con
umns Olory, Society; C. Rec, Corn ; ditlon, gcnt)e and true to work,
Song, Couquelle Thompson; . Rec, weight 1000 pounds, age 8 yeara
Jack Frost, James Brown; 7. Rec., .old Enquire of
Autumn, Sarah Mattle Adams; 8. Rec,
Octobers Party, Emll Reginald DePoe;
9. Song, Merry Autumn Days, Society. .
NOTICE!
Will cure salmoned dogs, $3 dollars
piece, money returned If not cured.
i Mrs. Jim Slyh
Pioneer, Oregon at Tunnel 24.
FOR SALE CHEAP
OLIO
1. Going to Jerusalem, Socloty mem-
Frank Huntsucker,
Bay View, Ore.
o
WHO WANTS "RUSH"
young man, has resided In the county
most of his life, and Is well qualified
for the office which he seeks, ss you
can ascertain by rending the several
roferrrnces published In this Issue.
Mr. McMillan Is an enthusiastic work
er and will make us a good official.
Last, but not trait, on the County
Tlckot Is the office of Coroner, for
which Dr. F. M. Carter of Newport
Is our candidate. Mr. Carter Is a
good staunch Republican, has served
faithfully In tho capacity of Coroner
before, 'and makes a good ofllclul.
Put an X before 75.
For our local precinct offices we
have Cliff Crosno as a candidate for
Justice of the Peace and Fred Taylor
for Constable. Mr. Crosno has served
as Justice for the past six months and
has given general satisfaction, so there
Is no doubt of his re-eloctton. Mr.
Taylor for Constable has no opposi
tion and will be our next constablo.
' For Port Commissioners we have
G. B. McCluskey, Toledo, Oregon.
J. H. Fitzgerald of the Portland and
West Coast Railroad, was up from
Newport Tuesday.
Mr. and Mrs. I. R. Wlshart will at-
tend the bis Oiti,oii-Washington foot,
ball gano at Eui;no tomorrow.
Mrs. A. C. Cru-ford returned Tues-
:i v!iit at Portland.
l.cr Inure ilt Lo-
V. V. was u im-ji .it,'' Cot Cor-
vallis tho latter pnrt of lni,l woo'.c, re
turning to his work on the Sllcts
bridge Monday.
Mr. and Mrs. Wnrren Hall and son,
Rex, of HIIpIz, were Tolvdo and New
port visitors Wednesday and Thurs
day of this week.
Chas. Hassman of Yaqulna was In
attendance here Tuesday nt the meetr
lng of the Republican Central Commit
tee.
Anstruther Scarth and Wlllard Car
son were among the new students en
rolled In the Toledo High School the
first of the' week.
Carl Davis ot Slletz was In the city
Tuesday attending the meeting of the
Republican County Central Commit
tee.-
County Commissioner Wakefield ot
Eddyvllle was here attending County
Court this week. Mr. Wakefield has
made us a good Commissioner and we -think
the voters should show their
appreciation of his good work by glv.
Ing him a handsome majority at the
election next Tuesday ,
President Lester Martin, and Sec
retary, L. C. Smith were in the city
Tuesday presiding at a meeting ot the
Republican County Central Commit
tee. A very successful and harmon
ious meeting was held and several
good talks were made. About twenty
attended the meeting, coming from
all parts of the county.
The Suffragette Minstrel Show, pull
ed off at the Dime Theatre last evon
Ing, drew a packed house, and every
body certainly got their money's worth.
The dancing by the younger folks and
the jokes by the "End Women" were
enjoyed by all, the jokes were clean
and In many cases original. The pro
ceeds of the evening will be used to
purchase books for the library.
Big Election Dance, Good Music,
and a good time at the I. O. O. F. Hall
Tuesday night, November 7th, 1918.
Supper will be served In the banquet
room at midnight Come out and get
the returns And have a good time. Tic
kets one dollar per couple. Including
dance and suppor. This (ianco la riven
by the pupils ot the High School and
the proceeds will be used In getting
out the High School Annual.
Roadmaster Porter and Purveyor
Derrick asslitlml h Kd Stanton, El
mor Homing, Fred Htunton, Jack Bel
lany, and J. J. Redfleld of' this place,
Ord Castle of Slletx, and You.ig Coolt
of Chltwood, returned Monday Irom a
surveying trip thronu'h the esti'ir. par'
of the county. Tho survey w:i made
to get data for the "inking of n plat
of the roads of the -. inty, a!o to as-
tibllsh mile posf i .i' ng tho county
rond.
A splendid surprise party was bad
at tho home of Mr. and Mrs. O. W.
Ityers' last Sunday In Imocr of Mrs.
flyers' birthday. Mrs. Ilyrrs was the
recipient of many useful and valua
ble presents and all went joined In
wishing her many returns of the day.
In all 47 persons were present being
as follows: Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Dyers.
Mr. and Mrs. L. Thotans, Mr. and Mrs
Tom Butler and family, Mr. and Mrs
Olo AtnundHon, Mrs. Inn Sturdevant.
Miss Agness Hlsor, Mr. and Mrs.
Wui. Darnlny, Mr. and Mrs. Nelse
Strand and family, Mr. and Mrs. Grant
Walling, Mrs. C. M. Klrkwood, Mrs.
A. M. Burnett, Mrs. T. BohRnnon, Mr.
and Mrs. A. L. Oglcsby, O. W. Comer,
Rosa and Arthur Schlcrht, Mr. and
bors. 1. Vollev ball relay races. So- Mv Mtiln Font Hoe? 1I welffhH
clety teams. 3. Volley ball relay races, 400 lbs.. I wish to go away and Le Wde. c- - Hawkins and A. T. , Mrs. Chas. Boeckmnn, Miller Ltmbach.
Roclntv vs. Vlltnr 4 itncnntlon and ho la Inn trnrul tn hntr-hpr Sam , Peterson as candidates, with no op-, It. W. Wollas, Mrs. Mork and grandson.
refreshments to parents and pupils. Ilrassfleld haa his mate. Price j position. Mr. Peterson has backslid
S. Good Night,
$25. J. A. Hodges, Elk City. 1U. " nU leanuigs toward Wilson,
R. J. Wollas and family, Butler Bros.,
and J. W. Harrison and family. v
