BUM U1W
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, 1870.
PIOCHE, LINCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3 1916
VDLUME XLIX; NUMBER
Election Tuny
AM Lively
Next;
Campaign
By this time next week we will !.t I.e tour of the southern pr eiuctt
all know who the next president of
the United States will be and, no
doubt, with equal certainty, the
county officers who are to be chosen
by the voters next Tuesday will also
be known. The local candidates
have been busy touring the various
parts of the county. The Democrats
held their opening rally in Eagle
Valley early last week and continued
their visits to Pay, Spring Valley,
Atlanta, Geyser, Bristol and other
places iu the northern part of the
county. They then went on to Pah
ranagat valley, where a rally was
held Tuesday evening last at Alamo
Iu the party were all of the county
candidates on the Democratic ticket,
excepting James Ryan, nominee for
the office of county commissioner.
In the party were W. T. Stewart, Sr.,
nominee for state senator; C. W.
Garrison, nominee for assemblyman;
J. A. Nesbltt, nominee for sheriff;
('has. Culverwell, nominee for coun
ty treasurer; Jennie W. Wilcox,
nominee for county recorder and aud
itor; W. A. Denton, nominee for
county clerk; W. E. Orr, nominee
for district attorney and Phil Math
ews, nominee for long term county
commissioner. The party returned
from the south Wednesday and held
a rally at Panaca in the evening,
STATE OP NEVADA
SS
the h.tter having been una iirhvly
detained on business. Hence the
party was composed of M. L. Lee, for
state senator; L. H. Beason, for as
semblyman; Elmer B. Edwards, for
county treasurer; Roy Orr, for sher
iff; T. J. Osborne, for district at
torney; Ellis Riding, for recorder
and auditor and Jas. N. Ilolllnger,
for county commissioner, long term.
The Republicans, after Eagle and
Spring valleys, moved on to Atlanta,
Gevser and Bristol and will hold a
rally and dance at Panaca this eve
ning. Tomorrow night, In Pioche,
a rally and dance will be given at
Thompson's hall and on Monday eve
ning the closing rally of the cam
paign will be held at Caliente. While
the nominees of the Republicans and
Democrats have been busy, the in
dependent aspirant for the state sen
atorship, Dr. Campbell, has been on
the go, as has been C. P. Chrlsten
sen, ' independent candidate for the
office of sheriff.
The county campaign has been
conducted in a most gentlemanly
manner by the candidates before the
people, everyone setting forth their
views with something good to say
about his or her opponent. Up to
this writing at least, the campaign
has been clean and fair and it is
COUNTY OP LINCOLN
I, Chas. Culverwell, the duly elected, qualified and acting County
Clerk in and for said County and State, do hereby certify that the follow
ing-named persons, together with the designation of the offices for which
they respectively were nominated,, the party or principal which they res
pectively represent, as the sam appears from the crtifled lists, duly veri
fied, filed in this office by the Secretary of State and by the County Con
ventions held on the 19th day of September, 1916. and by Certificates of
Nomination containing the required number of signatures filed by the In
dependent Candidates, which are Bow all on file in my office, are entitled
to have their names placed on the Official Ballot at the Genera Election to
be held on the 7th. day of November. 1918:
For President WOODROW WILSON
For Vice-President . THOMAS K. MARSHALL
FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Douglass, Robert L Democratic Party
Earl. Joseph I Democratic Party
Goodin, James T Democratic Party
For President J. FRANK HANLEY
For Vice-President IRA B. LANDRITII . .
FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Ashbury, Ida M Prohibition Party
Ingalls, George W Prohibition Party
Swander, J. Mortimer .. Prohibition Party
For Presldeut CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
For Vice-President CHARLES W. FAIRBANKS
'FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Bracken, Walter R Republican Party
Flanigan, P. L. . , Republican Party
McBride, Allan G Republican Party
For President ALLAN L. BENSON
For V ice-President U FORGE li. KIRKPATR1CK
FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS:
Harris, Jud Socialist Party
Rearick, J. E Socialist Party
Zeigler, Mrs. Mollie T ' Socialist Party
It You Want Good
Roads, tote "Yes"
where they were joined by Judge j hoped that this feeling will continue
Chas. Lee Horsey. Thursday the
Democratic caravan moved on to
Caliente, where an enthusiastic rplly
and dance were held last evening.
The Republican candidates openej
. their campaign at Alamo after a tour
of Fahranagat valley last Friday eve
ning. They tfren canvassed Caliente,
Elgin and Barclay and on Tieudav
vexing last, held . a rousiag ml!
" At Eagle Valley, which was fo'towed
.h a dance. All of the Rpuhliom
candidates, excepting W. B. Harris,
romlnee for county clerk, anl . ie
leimue, Jr., nominee for hori U-nr.
couii commissioner, were together
to the end.
Add res Wan led
Governor Boyle has received a re
quest from W. A. Julian, American
consular agent at Cananea, Mexico,
for assistance in finding Joseph and
Ellen McGuffy, parenta of William
and James McGuffy. James Mc
Guffy died about five years ago at
Gleason, Arizona, aged 40 years. His
children, (five sons, the eldest 16
years old) and his wife are desir
ous of communicating with grand
parents and the only knowledge
they have is that they lived in Ne
vada a long time.
GOVERNOR BOYLE TO MILLER'S REPORTER
ENFORCE VOTE ACT FORCED LEAVE PARTY
. Governor Emmet D. Boyle has is- Compelled by an attack of pleu
sued a proclamation offering re- risy at Goldfield to abandon the A.
wards, for arrest of violators of the Grant Miller campaign tour of the
"Election Act" approved March 29, state, Jas. F. O'Brien, official report
.1915, which provides means, for se- er of the tour, arrived in Reno Sat
curing purity of elections. The proc- urday. The exposure suffered
lamation follows: by Mr. O'Brien when he
"In compliance with an act of Miller party lost its way and was
the legislature of the State of Ne- forced to spend the night in the
vada, entitled 'An act relating to open near Pioche brought on the
Elections,' approved March 29, 1915 attack and he was forced to come
(Session Laws, 1915,) I, Emmet D. home for medical treatment.
Boyle, governor of the State of Ne- O'Brien states that A. Grant Mil
vada, do by proclamation offer the ler has been greatly encouraged by
following rewards: the receptions accorded him. After
"A reward of $100 for the arrest his great reception at Goldfield the
and conviction of any person vio-; Miller v party is making estimates
latlng any of the provisions of said f that Miller will be elected by 2,000
act'when the crime Is a misdemeanor , votes over his nearest opponent,
and J "It not only the working men
"A reward $200 for the arrest 1 who will vote for Miller." said Mr.
and conviction, ot any person guilty . O'Brien. "Numbers of business and
' - v f y, i . ! i l . !......! ... l t a . i
;pjMy, i an ,i nyCj.H. yruviueu , i pi uicssiuuai iucu uure pruiiuseu mm
.!,' " nnHl the . their support. There appears to be
expended a strong revolt against politicians
if. b
n of $10,
. ti
tWI.4. TaifER
SPEAKS COMMENDATORY
E. J. Denkle, for many years a
well known and popular business
man of Fullerton, but now engaged
in business at Caliente, Nev., is a
candidate for Justice of the peace.
Dr. Denkle is highly educated and
is well fitted in every way for the
position and his friends hope he will
be elected. While Mr. Denkle is not
and machines. "-
nal.
-Nevada State Jour-
RECORDS OF U. 8. SENATORS
WHO SEEK RE-ELECTION
The following records, taken ver
batim from-a monthly published in
Washington, D. C, called the
"Searchlight on Congress," and con
sidered of sufficient value to be cop
ied into this month's Current Lit
erature, should be of local Interest
It will be noted that Republicans
and Democrats are treated alike.
an old man. yet he has two grand t "Key Pittman, Nevada Democrat;
children. Fullerton Daily Tribune.; age 44; Lawyer. Missed some im
portant roll calls and was not very
Wilson Day
The local "Wilson Day" ceremon
ies were conducted at Thompson's
Hall Saturday night, under the aus
pices of the Women's Woodrow Wil
son club. The program, interspersed
with band selections, consisted of a
declamation of the president of the
club. Mrs. A. A. Carman, the read
ing , of Wilson's "Shadow Lawn"
speech of acceptance, by Mrs. Wilma
B. Warren, and an oration by Judge
Chas. Lee Horsey. The dance fol-
actlve. Opposed woman suffrage
and supported the Shield's bill. An
ordinary, average senator.
George Sutherland, Utah Repub
lican; age 54; lawyer. Interested
In sugar and mining. Generally
reactionary, and not active or very
influential,"
And we misguided "home folks'
have been led to believe that the
one was such a power that Presi
dent Wilson must resign if he were
not returned to the senate, and the
lowing the literary exercises was other was the greatest master of
For United States Senator:
Miller, A. Grant Socialist Party
Pittman, Key Democratic Party
Piatt, Samuel Republican Party
For Representative in Congress:
Caine, Edwin E ; Democratic Party
Roberts, E. E Republican Party
Scanlan, M. J.. Socialist Party
For Justice of the Supreme Court:
McNamara, J. E
Morgan, T. F '
Sanders, J. A.
For Clerk of the Supreme Court:
Kennett, William . . Democratic Party
McKay, R. A Republican Party.
Steele, C. A Socialist Party
For Long Term Regent of University:
Abel, J. F Republican Party
Curler, B. F Republican Party
Henderson, Charles B. Democratic Party
Parker, Lucy V Socialist Party
Taylor, Justus E Socialist Party
Van Nagell, J. R Democratic Party
For Short Term Regent of University:
Baker, Edna Republican Party
Kent, I. H Democratic Party
McQuestian, J. Fay Socialist Party
For State Senator:
Campbell, Dr. J. D. ' Independent.
Lee, M. L Republican Party
Stewart, W. T. Sr Democratic Party
For Assemblyman: " ' - .: . ..
Beason, L. H Republican Party
Garrison, C. W. Democratic Party
For Sheriff:
Christensen, C. P. Independent
Nesbitt, James A. . . . Democratic Party
Orr, R. R -. Republican Party
For Treasurer:
Chas. Culverwell, , Democratic Party
Elmer B. Edwards , Republican Party
For Assessor:
Ronnow, Dan J Democratic Party
For Recorder and Auditor:
Riding Ellis Republican Party
Wilcox, Jennie W Democratic Party
For County Clerk:
Denton, W. A Democratic Party
Harris, W. B Republican Party
For District Attorney and Ex-Offlcio Public Administrator:
Orr, Wm. E Democratic Party
Osborne, T. J Republican Party
For County Commissioner (Long Term):
Hollinger, James N Republican Party
Mathews, Philip Democratic Party
For County Commissioner (Short Term) :
Delniue, Jos., Jr Republican Party
Ryan, James Democratic Party
For Member of (kiunty School Board (Long Term):
Warreu, Wilma B. . . , Democratic Party
For Member of County School Board (Short Term):
Edwards, Mrs. E. L ...... Republican Party
For Justice of the Peace (Caliente Township) :
Denkle, E. J Democratic Party
Palmer, Frank . .". Republican Party
For Justice of the Peace, (Pioche Township) :
Thomas, A. VV Republican Party
For Justice of the Peace, (Panaca Township) :
Lee, F. C Democratic Party
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and the Official
Seal, at my office at Pioche, Nevada, this 17th day of October, A. D. 1916.
ISeal CHAS. CULVERWELL, County Clerk.
When you got your ballot net
Tuesday, look down In the low r
r.ght hand corner of it for a lurge
number three and put a stamp in the
tiank square to the right ot it hy
so. doing, you pignify that yo i are
interested In the welfare of the
ct unty, you are voting for th-j $'J0,-
000 bond issue for good roads and
you will never regret having done
Si). Remember, the result of the
bond issue will not only be good
roads, but it wil mean employment
after the war, when there may be
more people looking for work than
there are now. But most of all it
will - mean good roads, something
which Lincoln county needs worse
than any other county in the state.
Time and again we have heard trav
elers say that they can tell when
they cross the line into Lincoln coun-
get bad. If we had any pride at all.
we would not allow such conditions
to exist, and until we do shake our
selves and manifest some Interest
in the general welfare of the county.
we can never expect to forge ahead.
No difficulty is anticipated In sell-tj;
lng 4 per cent bonds at par, and to ;
pay them off at the rate ot $M0Q a
year in ten years, at the present ae4
sessed valuation of the county, would
require a levy of only 14c perl lev!
valuation the first year. The money,'
will be spent by the board of eoua f j
ty highway commissioners, composed?
of the three county commissioners
the district attorney and the asses
sor, which means that it will bj
spent well and to the best advantage.
So let's get out ot the old rut
Look for the big number three oil
ballot and vote "Yes." And tell all
ty, because immediately the roads your friends to do likewise.
"Safely First" Mavement Over
looks the Hoist Engineer.
Another Instance occurred In th
same camp about five months later?
it was simply a case of fool luck that
three men were not killed. Th
shows the most dangerous class c
men on a hoist, from the miner!
viewpoint, to be inexperienced me!
The following article taken from
the Engineering and Mining Journal,
by Harry E. Scott, whom many will I who can sit at the hoist and te!
remember, will be read with Interest wjrthlag that is going on down C
NEVADA PROSPEROUS
SAYS RAILROAD HEAD
"DEUTSCHLAND" AGAIN
IN AMERICAN PORT
'Nevada is prosperous beyond any
previous period In hqr history,
wl.iiher a ."!, l.vesLock. hay, po-
i .toes, or, i ic mentally, wool " said
r-eWent '.M"'ini Sprov.'- of the
Southern Par.i'c, when In loesuii
tmough hero .?turday nl; t on Mr
icturn from a week's trip over the
company's incs in Neva?, I'm
and the no.'the. 'tern cornv of Cali
fornia. . .
"Nevada is getting high prices for
all of her products and they are plen
tiful. Some ot the large properties
suited to agriculture have changed
hands and the future of Nevada
means the cutting up ot the ltrge
tracts into smaller areas available
for many times the population o!
the state at the present time.
"Utah is also prosperous. It is
developing manufacturing interests
that have their foundation in the
native recources of the state. Ogden
is working ahead industriously in
this respects Reno Evening Gazette.
well attended.
Little Captain Koenfg with his
epoch-making Deutschland" is
again reported safe in an American
port after a successful trans-Atlantic
voyage; and silent Captain Rose,
with his eiusve U-53 is said to have
come happi'iv into his home harbot
on the othe. side. These are note
worthy achievements for the Ger
man navy and they will evoke tht
admration which led-blooded pei
pie everywhere are i re pared tov ie .
for skill anu daring, uo matter wh i
the sentiment may be concerning the
cause in whose behalf such gallantry
is put forth. Deseret Evening News
Nevada's Birthday
Tuesday was a legal holiday in
Nevada, it bein its 52nd birthday,
but the grown-ups were so busy with
politics that it was left to the young
folks to celebrate the day, or rather
the night with their usual Hal
lowe'en pranks. Not the worst of
said pranks was the metamorphosis
of one of the U. S. G. S. horses into
Yesterday's Quotations . a sebra, affected by the Judicious
Silver 68; Copper 27.175; Lead application ot a commandeered pot
Constitutional law in Washington! 7.00; Spelter 10 ft.
lot paint.
on account of its local color.
"In the last few years much has
I been done in the name of safety first.
The Bureau of Mines has circulated
many bulletins; mining and scien
tific journals have published articles
covering almost every stage of the
game; nearly all themtning compan
ies have taken up the work, with
wonderful results In lowering the
percentage of accidents; but there
is one that has been overlooked by
almost all of .them, and that is the
hoist engineer. Many accidents are
caused by the carelessness of the en
gineer that could have been avoided
by taking the proper precautions.
The men on the larger hoists have
obtained their experience and have
been tried out on small hoists,
and as a rule can be relied on to
keep their heads in case of an emer
gency. - ..
On the, small hoist the engineer
is often a young fellow who has tak
en a course in running a car on top.
then a post-graduate course in dump
lng buckets. , He learns the different
levers and bepomes the engineer.
While he Is not running the bucket
or cage up and down the shaft for
practice, he is rolling another "pill"
or has a very Interesting novel which
he may be able to finish in that shift
if he does not lose too much time. He
Is brought to his senses by the shoot
lng signal. He knows everything is
all right, so he answers it without
looking at anything to see if he Is
ready to hoist when the time comes
still having his book In his hand
The Novel Reading Engineer
A case of the novel-reading engi
neer came to my notice about....
years ago. The shaft was down
nearly 300 ft. and drlllmen had their
rounds in and loaded. They gave
the shooting signal, and It was an
swered by- raising and lowering the
bucket. The three men who were
in the shaft spit their holes, 16 in
number, got on the bucket and gave
the signal to hoist, the bucket went
up about eight feet and Btopped; the
men heard the engineer's voice at
the collar f the shaft and knew that
something had gone wrong; two
made the timbers and got up far
enough to be safe, but the other man
dropped back to pull the fuses. He
got five of them but the other eleven
went off, and ot course he was killed
At the inquest the man who was
running the engine (a 50-hp. gaso
line) said he was reading a novel
when they gave the signal and that
he answered it without speeding up
the engine, taking a chance that it
would speed up when he was ready
for it; when the bell came to hoist,
he dropped the book, grabbed the
levers and threw in the clutch. The
engine stopped before it got the gas,
with the men so tar away from the
timbers that one of them could not
make it. It was not the fault of the
engineer that there was no chain
ladder in the shaft, but it was his
fault that the engine failed to do its
work.
shaft when all they should know
what the bell tells them. In th
shaft they were running two ami
drills with one man on each; t
third man looked attar the etev
powder, water, etc. The round hi
been drilled, the tools sent to tl
surface, the holes loaded and t
men were ready to shoot the roun
It was the custom tor the third mij
to give the shooting signal. Th!
day one of the drlllmen asked hf
it he had given the algnaL and
answered that he had, so the fus,
were spit and they got on the buck
and gave the one-bell to hoist, whL
was proper. The bucket went
about a foot and dowa again. Tl
gave another bell and tarn thl
happened a second and th
time, so they took to the
ders and started for the top aa ti
as they could and succeeded la g
ting up far enough to be safe
fore any ot the shots went oft,
no one was injured. .
On arriving at the top they to
a very much excited man. Wli
asked why he did not pull them
he answered that he did not get i
shooting signal, and as he knew tl
were ready to shoot he would
pull the bucket up on one bell w
they were blasting. The man
said he had given the signal ado
ted that he "guessed" he had
done so, but that did not excuse
engineer. One bell was the hoistj
signal, and he should have hoist
but he was one ot the wise ones
know more about what is going!
down in the shaft than the men
are there.
One of these hoist mea wa
relative ot the superintendent.
Other a relative ot one of the Id
stockholders. The management q
to keep them on the Job, but
miners fn the district decided
they should not run hoists any n
and they at last gave up the n
of being hoistmen and tried
thing else they could handle be
It would be difficult to sugge
remedy for such cases as the
long as the laws allow the us
this kind of men on hoists.
of the states have statutes thai
supposed to protect the miner
men of this character, but thej
is not enforced it the applicant
license has a pull. Even the
suffices with some ot the otfl!
In the state where these two
dents happened, an engineer h
have a license to run a hoist.
two men, who knew nothing
an engine and never had hold
lever, were taken to the prop
flciaU by the superintendent c
mine and got licenses without
aminatlon, all that was requli
them being to dig up a five doll
Advantage of Uaivernal Co)
There Is one thing that wilj
the engineer and also the a
namely, a universal code of si
so that when he learnt it oa oi
he will not have to learn a aev
" (Continued on page 1)
