ESTABLISHED 1868. TooAY'eNe^ooAv FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, FRIDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 3, 1916. PH.CE TWO CENTS ASSOCIATED PREis!
WHEELING AFLAME
HI [HUM
MGIP.iiiii
Workmen Demand a Return
to Protective Tariff
Principle.
3,000 IN THE PARADE
Biggest Crowd the Auditorium
Ever Saw Heard
' the Speaking.
fSpecial IDispatch l<j West Virginian)
"WHEELING, Nov. 3.?Wheeling last
night staged the greatest Republican!
demonstration ever given in this city,
and probably the greatest ever given
In West Virginia. The city was aflame
w1u1 CDtuuHianm ami wnu wild suuuls
tor Hughes. Robinson anil the llepub
llcan ticket, from 7 o'clock In the
evening until long after midnight.
Approximately three thousand men
turnod out to parade; and In addition
lo this vast number of marchers there
was one hundred and flfty-flvo automobiles
In line, and all of them loaded to
capacity. Each marcher carried a
stock of red fire In one hand and an
American flag In tho other, and on the
lapel of his coat wore a badge hearing
the words, "Wo March for Republican
JTOtecuon aua rrospcniy.
The spectacle was a most impressive
one. In the line of march were
scores of Wheeling's loading business
and professional men. marching along
side of the men employed In their
mills and factories. Many of these
men never before took actlvo part In
a political demonstration.
IS. Meade Wliippo. of Pennsylvania,
whose particular line of activity In the
present campaign has been to travel
about America and observe political
demonstrations for the National committee,
said:
"Outside the city of New York I
liave seen nothing tn this campaign
to equal your demonstration here for
the Republican party."
Tho Americus Republican club, the
; Babcock Blues and tho Lincoln club,
all of Pittsburgh, and aggregating
ignore than flvo hundrod men, came to
[JV'hoellng on a special train and appeared
in the lino of march.
Tho great bulk of the procession was
composed of the men who work in tho
steel mills, foundries, glass plants and
potteries of lue u.ueeling district
They marched under tho banners of
the plants lu which they are employed
and literally burned into the minds of
the thousands of onlookers that they
stand for a protective tariff. This was
juae uy ga'tti inui&piiamieH illuminated
by red tire, and some of which
were more elaborately illuminated by
electricity. These banners earrlea
tuch inscriptions as follows:
"WE WANT HUGHES. PEACE AND
PERMANENT PROSPERITY."
"WE MUST HAVE A PROTECTIVE
TARIFF AT THE CLOSE OF THE
WAR."
"ROBINSON?HE IS RIGHT."
"WHO CHANGED UNCLE SA.M
INTO UNCLE SHAM??WILSON."
"WE WANT NO MORE DlSHltAG
DIPLOMACY."
The parade moved over a route threo
miles long, and then with undying enthusiasm
hundreds in me line of march
kept on moving until they bud marched
over the streets in the business dls(Continued
on page six.)
FORT M AGAIN
IN HANDS OF FRENCH
.Ml the Sacrifices of the
Crowii Prince Were
I Made in Vain
(By Associated Vrcss)
PARIS, Nov. 3.?The French occupied
Fort Vaux last evening after
trailing lor the BuccoHslon of groat explosions
inside the fort to stop the
war office said today. The fort evacuited
by the Gormans yesterday went
igain into possession of France without
loss.
Tho Germans gave up tho fort, the
Statement says, as result of violent
French bodbardment and the gradual
tloslng in of French troops. Tho rein
if Verdun fort is now re-esu.
ayd is held firmly by the French.
POLITICAL ADVERTISING
| Congressman Ncely j
Will address the Citizens of
Fairmont and vicinity at the
OPERA HOUSE
Tomorrow Evening at 8:00 j
o'Clock i"
a
Members at. all parties ami the a
ladles arc invited to attend. a
COMMITTEE.
THE BUSINESS ASPECT
(An Editorial.)
BY far the most, important aspect of the alliance between
Gang government in Marion county and bootleccrinir and <
vice is the menace to the moral welfare of the community
which it involves. But there are other points about it that are
worthy of the earnest consideration of any citizen who wants
to do his full duty when he enters the election booth Tuesday.
For instance, the material progress of the county is also affiwtwl
fl/lvAPttfilv In Vvrt 1 j1?
* jlu vug |/bov 1GTT 1UVII1UD failUIUIib BUU LUC
county have been acquiring an evil reputation throughout the
country. The city is known as "wide open;" asjl place where
liquor may be obtained for the asking and the drink habit is
bo prevalent that many workmen are no longer to be depended
upon to be regular at their employment. At a time when a sincere
effort is being made to build up the town nothing could be
more harmful than such reports.
.Manufacturers do not build plants at points where the labor
supply is unreliable. .Men with families do not come to live in
a I own where street walkers arc a conspicuous feature of the
street scenes ami the municipal government is known to "be the
abject creature of Clang bosses who do uot hesitate to make that
government a contemptible thing in the eyes of the public
whenever it suits their purposes to do so.
Nor is capital attracted to a city in which the people arc
known to be unable to conduct their own affairs. CaDital irons
of office and will in other ways reflect discredit upon the party.
AVhen it is understood that incompetents and crooks cannot be
elected it will be impossible for such men to secure nominations.
In the end the whole organization would be strengthened by
that wholesome influence.
In the election which will occur Tuesday the issue is clean
cut. It is a tpicslion of the moral and material welfare on
the one hand and the encouragement of bootlegging and
vice ou the other. A victory for good government means a
better outlook for the industrial and commercial prosperity
of Fairmont and Marion county. A vote for the other side
means business stagnation with living conditions becoming progressively
worse. No community can really prosper; it cer-|
tainly cannot progress in a permanent way unless its government
is at least respectable. This cannot be claimed for the
county and city in which we live. These governments condone
the very things to combat which we erect schools and churches.
Hut the bitterest fact about the whole humiliating situation is J
that the Gang would not dare to do what it does if it did not |
have the active cooperation of men who like to feel that they j
are substantial citizens, high in their churches and leaders in
everything that makes for advancement. There never was a
worse example of moral false pretense. This is a matter that
is right here amoug ourselves. It is a family matter, so to
speak, and it ought to be easy to reduce it to terms which admit
of no misunderstanding. When we arc honest about it we
all know tliut there is something radically wrong with cither
the intelligence or the conscience of the man who will suonort
with his vote a Gang whieh first closes its eyes to law violations
and then closes the courts.
Through a fortunate circumstance the tickets which will be
presented to the voters 011 Tuesday make the choice between
right and wrong a simple one. The Republican candidates
stand for the side of progress and clean living. The Democratic
candidates stand for the opposite condition. Need we
say more to intelligent and clean minded voters in the way
of advice as to what they should do when they go to the polls
011 Tuesday?to the election place where every man is the equal
oi every otner man and ean make his will count just as much
in the final result if he wants to; to the booth where he is alone
with his conscience and in the presence of the most sacred duty
which our civilization and the form of government under which
we live imposes upon us 7
laterpiller Tractor B. & 0. Places Biff
For American A rmy! Box Car Orde
'P.5LAs.f.<!S,al.<!.d Pre??> . BALTIMORE. Not. 3.?The Bali
SAN ANTONIO. Nov. 3.?A cater- more and Ohio railroad has placed t
itller tractor of the type used by the order lor 2,000 box cars supplemet
Irltlsh for ''tanks or amorcd cars, ing a contract for 1,000 cars plact
rill bo placed in the Big Bend district a short time ago it was stated todi
long tbe Mexican border whore there by officials,
ire no roads it was announced at 11
hobt0^dctorrtceonsi8t8 of an engine , JJ* iom.e ne? bj??d.j"
,nd four trallors and has a carrying lovemmenl and stop the favontun
opacity of-100,000 pounds. Elect Republican candidates.
to places where the government is strong, intelligent, honest
and efficient, for it has learned by experience that where these
qualities do not exist there is no guarantee that a "hold up"
of some kind will not be attempted.
The Gang that dominates .Marion county and wastes the public
funds, incidentally feathering its own nest, cares little for
these considerations. So long as the taxpayers can be persuaded
to put up enough money each year to keep the henchmen
satisfied it does not care what happens to the industrial prospects
of the community. Let well enough alone is the motto
of the corruptiouist and the grafter the country over?well
enough meaning any condition, no matter how rotten, which
permits gang government to continue unmolested. The Gang
expects people to vole a straight ticket with a mark under the
emblem of the party whose national policy they favor, and thus
keep them in office no matter what the condition of the home
government. (Jan you blame it? Year after year the voters
have been fulfilling its fondest expectations, and year by year
the local government has been growing worse until now it is
a crying shame both as to its moral.shortcomings and its financial
excesses
The spirit of partisanship to which this condition is due is
based upon a complete misunderstanding of the purposes of
party government. A vote for a prosecuting attorney who refuses
to prosecute; who puts off the trial of cases in such a
wholesale mauuer that it is necessary to close the courts as was
done last mouth, has absolutely no influence upon the results
fur the head of the ticket upon which he is running. Indeed,
from the standpoint of enlightened arid efficient partisanship
it would be better to bring about the defeat of candidates whom
it is known will have no rccard for the muletihr'nt Win'" ??*?. >
p
' TTHB ?tTRM..-VOTSR'~I fl
M$*
11 M
rrrn Tiir rinmnirn
rttu mt rflbiumta
M. V. T. -Co. Plan Half Mile
of Ten Inch Main to
Improve Service.
* ~ /- Zl :
One half mile of ten inch gas main,
perfecting a link In the main that feeds
all the factories on'tbe Bolt Line, the
First ward and the Owens Bottle factory,
will be laid in the next few weeks
by the Monongahela Valley Traction
company. An appropriation of $5,000
has been made for the Improvement
and work will be started as soon as a
few bits of right of way are secured.
The new main is to be laid from the
regulator house on Cleevland avenue
to the Baltimore and Ohio tracks on the
bank of the Monongahela river where
the eight inch main feeding the Belt
Line factories branches off.
The line now forming this connection
is a sis inch main and has been
called upon to furnish the gas drawn
away by the eight inch Belt Line main
In addition to supplying the sis Inch
pipo that continues on across the river.
The cross the river line furnishes
domestic gas for the First ward as well
as much of the fuel used at the Owens
plant.
With the new ten inch line in oner
atlon, the pressure In both the Belt
Line and the First ward mains will be
considerably increased, and a greatly
Improved and more uniform service
offered the manufacturing district of
the city.
OEMS AFRAID TO :
BACyORNWELL
Harrison County Republicans
Post Severial Big
Betting Offers.
(Special Dispatch to West Vtiwinlan)
CLARKSBURG, W. Va., Nov. 3.?
There was posted at the Clarksburg
Telegraph office .ouuy an offer to bet
on the election results - at follows:
$2,000 that Hughes will carry the state:
$2,000 that wul be muiiiou; $2,000
that he will carry- Harrison county;
r n AAA SV.S T)>kl..e? , will 4V.
*6,UUV mat nuuiuobu ww vcurjr iuo
state; $l,uuO that Morris will be elected
prosecuting-attorney ot Harrison
county; $1,000 that Sutherland will
be elected. "Anybody can get all or
any part of this offer," reads the announcement.
** Several wealthy local Republicans
arc beblnd this offer. A Fairmont paper
annouuemg that there was $2,000
in a certain bank In that city to bet on
1 Cornwell. Clarksburgers sent a mesisenger
to cover n. ne was unable to
tj. locate the muc "rt about ?2,0UU
in ready to be wagered on Cornwall but
. after RlHrmlnhine around nmnnr Pair.
i(j mont Democrats be managed to get a
[y bet up tor $500 with tbem that Judge
Robinson will can? the state.
Dp till several days ago there was a
iu good deal ot betting here. But Wilson
'y and Cornwall money hasn't been In
* sight since Hughes and Robinson men
1 having backed It into hiding
?* ' -"
togglit job were fvjaj to'coC (hot ?
1ST
MEEIIHGSII
RF HHH TMIISRI
J. Conley, J. A. Meredith. Eldora?M
C. bough, E. M. Showalter, French McCray,
raul Armstrong. Samaria
(Shaw school)?A. O. Stanley, Harry
Shaw, J. M. Jacobs, Brooks S. Hutchinson.
BOOZE SPECIALS OK
THE C.SQJAILRQAO
Liquor Will Not Be Permitted
on the Regular
Trains Hereafter.
(Special Dispatch to West Virginian)
CHARLESTON. W. Va., Nov. 3.?
An order was issued hv the Cheaa
peake and Ohia Railroad company today
announcing the installation ot two
special trains beginning tomorrow in
which persons carrying labelled whiskey
will be permitted to travel on.
The regular trains passengers will
not be allowed to carry intoxicants
the new trains- known as "booze specials"
will operate Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays between Charleston
and Ashland, Ky.
No person will be permitted to carry
more than one suit case tull of whiskey.
The cases must not be more than
eight Inches wide thirteen incbes high
tnd two feet in length.
' ? V
Vb IlkkW VlllMII I
Intense Interest Shown by
Voters of County in
Local Issues.
Enthusiasm and ,'ntense interest Is
being shown throughout the county in
the school house meetings that are being
held under the direction of the Republican
county speukcrs' bureau and
during the last few days the addresses
have been made to crowded houses.
Democrats aB woll as Republicans
have turned ouc to ueui- the HDeaknrs
on county issues, and Chairman MorLan
of the bureau, states that throughout
the county there Is a concerted
movement of the Democrats to chastise
the present county administration
and that more scratched tickets will
be voted by the Democrats at this
election than ever before.
Tonight meetings will be held at
Benton's Ferry, Harris town and Doit's
run. The spoakers scheduled for each
place are as follows:
Friday, November 3. Benton's Fer
ry?Harry Shaw, A. 0: Stanley, Brooks
Hutchinson. Hammond?J. A. Mere
dlth, R. J. Conley. Barnstown?W. S.
Meredith. M. \V. Ogden, Paul Armstrong,
J. M.- Jacobs. Dent's Run?
E. M. Showalter. ax. C. Lough, French
McCray. - .
Saturday. November 4, Catawba?R.
r
r
ie*4 Ooiro"?
MAY HAVE ELOPED
WITH MORMON ELDER
i
Miss Edith Leeds, Student
at W. V. U. Leaves for
Utah.
Miss Edith Leeds, aged IS, daughter
of Attorney C. H. Leeds, of this
city, and a student for the past three
years at West Virginia university at
Morgantown, Is thought to have eloped
last evening with a Mormon elder
of SprlngvlUe, Utah.
The Mormon elder has been at Morgantown
for sometime past and while
there made the acquaintance of Miss
Leeds, the elopment resulting. The
iamer or the girl knew nothing thin
afternoon when asked concerning the
affair. He stated that his daughter
came here yesterday on the noon train
and left yesterday evenlDg agaln for
Morgantown.
Reports from Morgantown are to
the effect that Mies Leeds got off the
6 o'clock train there yesterday evening
and purchased a ticket to Springvllle,
Utah, again boarded the Bame
train and went to Pittsburgh. The
Mormon elder had left the day previous
for Chicago where he will likely
await the arrival of MIm T ooSu
The Mormon elders bad been holding
services at Sabraton for several
months during wblch time Mies Leeds
was known to have met her intended
husband on several occasions.
Judge Wilkinson
Quits the Bench
(Special Dispatch to West Virginian)
CHARLESTON. W. Va., Nov. 3.?
Judge John B. Wilkinson, of Logan,
who has been judge of' the Seventh
Judicial circuit composed of the counties
of Logan. Wayne and- Boone, tendered
his resignation yesterday to
Governor Henry D. Hatfield to take
effect at once. Announcement was
made at the governor's office today
of the appointment of Hon. P. S. Pa
pier, 01 wayne, wno will nil the vacancy.
Judge Wilkinson is one of the
nominees ot the Democratic party lor
Judge of the Supreme Court.
The Weather
West Virginia?Fair tonight and
Saturday; wanner Saturday In west
portion tonight.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
Temperature at 8 a. m. today 30.
Yesterday's weather clear; temperature,
maximum 68; minimum 29; pre
viyiumoo none.
NOTICE TO
TAXPAYERS
The 1916 tax books are now completed
and ready for collection. The
books for all Districts will be found
at the Sheriff's Office dally until
Nov. 30th, the close of the discount
period except Mannlngton district,
which will be found at the Bank
of Mannlngton. Please pay today
as I have more time to wait on you
now than later.
C. D. CONAWAY, Sheriff
mm 1
iniiu ill 1
OUTLAW
Permit for Wilson S
Club Streamer M
Ran Out Last
Night -M
NO RENEi ASKED 1
Had Right to Fly for Thir
ty Days From October
The banner in front of the WUMI
club lost its license at midnight ladl ' rVa
nlgbt but at a late hour this aftemooa..
it was still flying although no renewal
haa been granted. As a matter of feet.
no steps bud been taken to make ap-' j
plication for a renewal. The people iS
who run the Wilson club and who dl*t
gooned the weak Gang bossed dtj
government into amending the city or in
dlnance bo as to permit the banner to v3gfil
be put up probably figure that harin| jM
compelled the Mayor to go along thai 39
far ho will not havo the spirit to make
them take the banner down .
though it is now flying wlthont authors . ,
After the city ordinance wan amend . . Ked
to make it possible for the Hayoi ' st'S
to grant a permit for the banner th< .'33
following application was filed: , '
To The Houorablo Anthony Bowen,
Mayor of the City of Fairmont. -441
' West Virginia:
The undersigned hereby make . V-rtS
application lor a uermlt tn nl?^? a ' t?
banner or strcuinor, bearing the jjM
legend. "The Wilson Club Head- i-jiga
quarters" across Main or Adame jtjH
street from tli? old First NatH~??jnjiB
Bank Residence to the Fairmont ..
Trust Company building, haying . v', :?
secured proper authority from said .<
property owners to attach the . \*?tS
saino to said structures, perauaht VV72M
to the provisions of Ordinance No. ' ' Oral
25 passed by the Hoard ot Affairs
Oct. 2d. 1916. for a period ot SO / ..VKS
The undersigned agrees to erect. '
maintain and remove said banner ' . lias
or streamer In such manner as not i 1 r,J
to Injuro any person or thing and
agrees to compensate any person Vaj
for any damage which may be sua- ; }fH
tained on account ot the said ban- ner
or streamer.
Dated at Fairmont, West Vlrglnla,
this 2d day ot October, 1B16.' '
THE WILSON CLUB, wSSBBi
By BIRCH LEE BUTCHER. .
On the bottom ot this paper thy ;
Mayor penned the following permit: ! 58
"Tne above application tor a permit;
this day considered by mo and permit \v
granted subject to revocation at any:
time. Given under my hand thls,Sd
Oct., 1916. Anthony Bowen, Mayor otv. i
the city of Fairmont, W. Va."
Thero were thlrty-ono days In Octov-Wftsffl
ber, so this permit expired at midnight
last night. Thus another mystery has' r%jSm
been added to tbo local campaign,?
What Is the Mayor going to do abont- >KSH8|
It? It is, however, not a Terr deep?:TO
mystery, like what becomes ot the it
$14,000 that Is spent tor tho keep ot
the poor? Every one knows that the. ^
Mayor will do nothing about It unless
by another strange quirk In the Demo*'v-^ESH
crane campaign plans like the one v.'ISH
which prompted the orders from Democratic
headquarters for the arrest of,
Lawrenco. Holbert, the Democraticy-Vjt3a|
campaign worker who assaulted a Republican
candidate In Grant
the Mayor should be told to make tha-JvT^
Wilson club take the banner down. - .^8
That might happen, for the banner
has done no good to the Demoemtlot.^
canse and has done a lot of harn^f~Itj|aj?|
Is not going to do the Democrats machin
good to have It hane.Uo there on eleo-FS
tlon day, advertising the kind of re-?. InM
spcct the Democratic organization haa^a
for law and order.
LABORERS ill
28c Per Hour
New Normal School grounds,:. k
NOTICE ;jl
City taxes are now dugij M
and payable at the City- M
Treasurer's Office, Mon- \
roe street. A discount, ofi ??
2i/2,7o will be allowed. ^|j |g
J. R.^MILLER.
j
