The Ecko ha* a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons wno trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 44
TWO ELECTIONS NEXT
TUESDAYNOVEMBER 7
National, State and County Election and
City Primary—Where Election
Boards Will Sit
All residents of Leavenworth will have
the opportunity, nay. it is their duty,
to vote twice next Tuesday. To first
vote for national, state and county
officers, because this is the most im
portant of the two. Second to vote in
the city primary to decide who shall
be candidates for the different city
offices. The board holding the gen
eral election and the board holding the
city primary election will sit in the
same room in the three city wards. In
the First ward the two boards will sit in
the city htll. In the Second ward they
will occupy the basement of the mdc
or old school building. In the Third
wwd the boards will sit in the Faulkner
store building. Councilmen will be
nominated in each ward and one coun
cilman at large who will be voted for
in all he city wards.
Voters living outside the city limits,
in what is known as Tumwater precinct,
will have to go to the old steel plant
to deposit their ballots.
Straw Ballot in Ellensburg High
School.
On Monday last a straw ballot was
taken in the Ellensburg high school
says the Record. It showed a leaning
toward Wilson and Lister. In the bal
ance of the ticket the republicans in
almost every instance ran out ahead.
The vote on joint senator from Kittitas
aDd Chelan stood, Adams 106, Ferry
man 55.
Butter Wrappers at The Echo office.
Reasons Why Hughes Should Be Elected
BECAUSE he stands for Protection, Prosperity, Freparednesß and Patri
otism.
BECAUSE he will not permit partisanship to triumph over Patriotism.
BECAUSE his speech of acceptance expresses his desire to co-operate with
labor for its advantage, not to exploit it for his own.
BECAUSE he will command the respect of Europe and Asia and win
the friendship of Latin-Americs.
BECAUSE he will never by proclamation deny the right of Americans
to pursue their business in other lands under the protection of the
American flag.
BECAUSE he will not repudia ;■• the American flag in any land.
BECAUSE he will not put action int.. words, but words into action.
BECAUSE, as Theodore Roosevelt well says, he has high sentiments
of justice and dignity, is upright and straightforward, is an incon
testable master of judicial matters, and always translates his words
into deeds.
BECAUSE he is a strong, sure, courageous man, with a clear-cut program
before him and with the courage, intelligence and determination to
carry it out and bring to our country self-respecting peace and
world-wide respect.
BECAUSE as Governor of New York he has already proved that he
dared to do the right thing, anil is prepared to further do and dare
when called into a wider field.
BECAUSE he is not a dreamer and not a quitter.
BECAUSE he is a firm friend of preparedness for the United States
and not for preparedness through political expediency.
BECAI'SE he will not burden us with war taxes in time of peace.
BECAUSE we need a tariff not founded upon free trade, nor for "reve
nue only," but to protect American labor and American industn
from the deadly competition of the foreigner.
BECAUSE he is a red-blooded American. His policy will be "America
first, America efficient."
BECAUSE he can be depended up<m to keep platform pledges.
BECAUSE he will protect this country against being flooded with the
cheap manufactures of Europe after the war.
BECAUSE he is the chosen head of a party which has long fathered
all great constructive legislation which experience has proved t<>
be wise and which has invariably been opposed by the Democratic
party.
BECAUSE a business man is going to be especially needed in the next
few years. In consequence of the European war a tremendous read
justment of the world's biuioeM if ahead. The United States must
be economically prepared. It must not, as now, be left defense
less. It must not have a President with an untrained bn&inew
mind, ever changing. Mr. Hughes made a remarkable record a c
a business Governor of New York. He has extraordinary ahilin |
to 6ee all sides of a question. Not from him, as from Wilson, will
be heard any declaration that he will hang business men "high a.-
Hainan" if they do not agree with him.
BECAUSE he is a man of forward vision, of practicability and firmness,
not a mere rhetorician and theorist.
BECAUSE he stands for the protection of American lives and property
abroad as well as at home.
BECAUSE through him the whole nation will be in the Government.
It will not be ruled by one section, nor by one man.
BECAUSE he is for an effective, not an unsound and sham system
of rural credits to help the farmer and for a wise conservation of
natural resource*,.
BECAUSE he is for a Federal workingmen* compensation law suitable
for the employes of the Government, and those employes engaged
in interstate commerce and subject to the hazard of injury.
BECAUSE he favor* investigating before legislating.
Uhe Xeavenwortb too
Maquerade Tuesday Night
The ladies auxiliary of the B. of L F.
i and E. pulled ofi a masquerade party
Tuesday evening in the Fremen's hall
that proved a winner both in attend
ance and the interest created by the j
rivalry for prizes. There were many
handsome, some bizzare and some gro
tesque costumes. Mrs. Wm. Titus j
carried ofl the ladies' prize in the char :
acter of "Autumn," a very handscme
costume made of leaves. Mr. Herman
Franklin won the gentleman's prize in
a walk in the character of Marmaduke I
Smythe, from the "Diamond from the
Sky." •
BIG REPUBLICAN RALLY AT
SCENIC JHEATER TONIGHT
Come Out and Hear the Spell Binders
Give Their Reasons Why You Should
Vote the Republican Ticket.
Apple cider and doughnuts will be
dispensed at the close of the meeting
tonight.
Col. R. H. Hartley will discuss na
tional questions. District and county
candidates will make short talks on
state and local affairs. An orchestaa
will furnish music and other diversions
will vary the program.
This is the closing demonstration
before the great event next Tuesday,
when the country will again be saved.
Mr. and Mrs. O S. Sampson enter
tained at dinner Tuesday evening to
celebrate their thirty-sixth wedding
anniversary. The guests were mem
bers of their family and their most in
limate friends. Covers were laid for
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Miiler. Mr. and
Mrs. Butler Sampson, Mr. and Mrs.
G. T. Sterling, Mi. and Mrs. A. R.
Pinch, Mrs. Worth and the host and
hostess.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, November 3, 1916
INLAND MEAT COMPANY
HAS INCENDIARY EIRE
In Wenatchee Monday—Loss $2,000—
$600 Insurance -Attempt to Fire
Cold Storage Building.
What is called an incendiary attempt
ito burn out the packing plant of the
Inland Meat Co.. occurred at We
natchee Monday afternoon. The fire
was discovered by railroad who
gave the alarm. A storage . c and
2000 sacks of wheat screenings, a gas
oline engine and two tons of wheat
straw was destroyed before the fire was
I subdued. A cold storage building full
| of meat and lard only 25 feet from the
storage house was saved by hard work.
An investigation showed that the fire
was of incendiary origin. A lot of
paper liners and other stuff had been
lighted in the cold storage building
but because of lack of air had practi
cally gone out. The loss is in the
neighborhood of two thousand dollars
with insurance of $600. The Inland
Company operates a market in Leaven
worth.
WhyProgrcssivcs Support Hughes
N. W. Durham of Spokane, one of
the leaders of the progressive party
movement in this state, and chairman
of the progressive state conventions of
1912 and 1914, gives the following
reasons why he and other progressives
are supporting Hughes:
"He was fighting our progressive bat
tles bravely years before the progressive
party had birth. When governor of
New York he never failed the people
at ?ny time.
"I like the way in which the norn ■
nation came to him. It leaves him
untrammeled in every way.
"I like his rugged Americanism. I
approve his stand on the Mexican
situation, I believe, with him, that
when a government refuses to protect
the liyes and property of its citizens,
that government has failed to meet the
elementary obligations of government.
"Mr. Hughes grasps the need of in
dustrial defense against the fierce com
petition that is coming with the end of
the war. Mr. Wilson does not.
"Specifically, I ask progressives tod
other voters to take the democratic
platform of 1912 and check off the
pledges that have not been kept.
Here is a partial list:
"1. Its promise to reduce the cost
of living.
"2. Its promise to break up the
trusts and stop monopoly.
"3. Its promise to pass a law 'pro
hibiting any corporation from contrib
uting to a campaign fund.'
"4. Its pledge promising the peo
ple that if Wilson were elected he
would stand for a single presidential
term.
"5. Its promise to cut down con
gressional appropriations, and run the
government more economically.
"6. Its plank on coservation of
natural resources.
"7. Its plank declaring for the ex
emption from tolls of American ships
engaged in coastwise trade through the
Panama canal.
"8. Its flagrant repudiation of the
pledge to enforce the civil service laws.
"9. Its plank declaring that 'the
constitutional rights of American
citizens should protect them through
out the world, and every American
citizen residing or having property in
any foreign country is entitled to and
'must be given -the full protection of
[ the United States government, both
for himself and his property.'
"Scarcely a pretense is heard that
Mr. Wilson has kept the faith on that
fundamental doctrine of the govrrn
roent of the United States. The poor
excuse is offered that if he had stood
up for American life he would have
gotten us into war with Mexico. But,
as Mr. Roosevelt is pointing out, Mr.
Wilson has not kept the patriotic faith,
he has not kept us oat of war, for
more American lives have been sacri
ficed in Mexico and on the border than
were lost in battle in the entire Spanish-
American war."
Hallowe'en Dinner Party
Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Krollpfeifier
entertained a dinner party at their home
Wednesday evening. The rooms were
handsomely decorated in orange and
black with autumn leaves to temper
the sombre colors. A ghostly ghost
peered out of a corner. All the guests
were masked until dinner was an
nounced. Following are the guests:
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Wilder, Mr. and
Mrs E. K. Barnum, Mr. and Mrs. J.
E. Cullen, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Mullen,
Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Jacobsen, Miss
Elfa Merz and Mr. R. F. Taylor and
the host and hostess.
Price of Shoes Likely to Double
The leather journals are telling har
rowing tales about the future price of
everything made out of leather. The
price of shoes have advanced 66 per
cent since the war began and the pre
diction is made by the leather people
that they will advance very materially
in the next few weeks, and may double
in price.
Potatoes have advanced 33 per cent
in the past thirty days and produce
dealers predict they will go to $150
per ton before another crop is raised
and ready for market.
SCHOOL NOTES
The basket ball boys have their team
organized and are practicing for the
county championship.
The manual training boys completed
a woodbox for the kitchen and a book
case for the grade building this week.
Quite a little interest is being taken
among the High school pupils in the
declamatory contest. It is hoped that
a large number of the students will
enter.
The debate question stated in the
program was decided upon by the de
bating committee at Wenatchee as the
subject for the county debating team.
At each literary program thruout the
year the same subject will be used.
Mr. Osborn has been making a com
parison of the work done in our High
school with that of the larger High
schools in the state The result is that
our school work shows up very favorably
and our pupils stand high in the ranks
so far as ability is concerned.
The Hiyuskookum literary society
will give the following program Friday
afternoon November 17, commencing
at 2 o'clock:
Music -. ■. High School Orchestra
Reading Sadda Hasegawa
Piano Solo Elizabeth Nicholas
Recitataic Mary Jacobsen
Music Girls Glee Club
Paper Annie Martin
Debate: Resolved that the system of
compulsory military training of the
equivalent of dot less than two hours
per week should be required in the
public High Schools of the state of
Washington having an enrollment of at
least twenty boys.
Affirmative, Lonnie Hartman and
Ernest Potter. Negative, Joe Fitzpat
rick and Howard Roach.
Music High School Orchestra
Miss Oliye BlankenshiD entertained
at a Hallowe'en party last Friday even
ing. The evening's entertainment was
Hallowe'en stunts and music. The
guests were Isabelle Ouren, Vivian
Reynolds, Marian Ourec, Lovell Hen
dricks, Marie Swartz, Helen Blanken
ship, Iva West, Violet Stafford, Louise
Rumchr, Lonnie Hartman, Gilbert
Reeves, Akin Morton, Edward Ritchie
Lyle Gowing, Cecil Rector, Lloyd
Brown, George Hilton and Ernest
Ahlin.
Mr. W. L. Clement, of the firm of
W. J. Hoy & Co., who have the con
tract to build the Great Northern mow
I theds between Leavenworth and Tye,
! arrived from the east yesterday where
! he has been for the past three weeks.
Mr. Clement says the election talk he
beard in the states he visited indicated
| republican victory.
Mrs. G. W. Sampson and daughter,
Lucile, came down from Winton Satur
day and spent Sunday with friends in
Leaven worth.
JAS. RILEY FOUND DEAD
IN WASHINGTON HOTEL
Wednesday Morning-Had Money in Bank
—No Relatives—Organic Heart
Disease
Wednesday about one o'clock James
Riley was found dead in a bed at the
hotel kept by Mrs. Carrie Houston.
The facts obtainable are as follows:
The past few months he had worked in
the Jacobsen mill at Mountain Home
ranch, three miles south of town. Some
two weeks ago he came to town and
asked Dr. Judah for a perscription to
get a bottle of whiskey. The Doctor
told him, after giving him an examina
tion that he could not give him a pre
scription for liquor and advised him to
go to the county hospital at Wenatchee
where he was under the care of Dr.
Windora, county physician, for a short
time and returned to Leavenworth the
first of this week. He went to his
room in the Washington hotel Tuesday
nieht about 11 o'clock. Not making his
appearance Wednesday, and his door
being locked, Mrs. Houston at one
o'clock broke the door in and found
him dead. He was lying with one
arm across his chest and from the ap
pearance of the bed clothes he died
without a struggle. Coroner Temple
ton was notified and after making an
examination and taking testimony found
the facts as above stated. He also
found that Mrs. J. L. Parsons, living
on the north side of the track knew
Riley and had recently talked with
him. To her he told the name of a
sister living in Ballard, Wash. She
took the name but has lost the memo
randum. He also told her he did not
want any of his relatives to know his
Reasons Why Wilson Should Be Defeated
BECAUSE, to cite Representative Fitzgerald, Democratic Chairman of
the Appropriations Committee of the House, during his administra
tion the Democratic Congress has been the most extravagant that
has ever met in the capital.
BECAUSE he insists on his shipping bill—an mdefensiHe piece of folk
which would destroy such merchant marine as we now have.
BECAUSE, although he says "he kept us out of war," the story of
Mexico, San Domingo and Hayti refutes him.
BECAUSE he runs anti-climaxes. He marches in only to march out
again.
BECAUSE he signed the seamen's bill, which practically has wiped out
shipping on the Pacific Coast.
BECAUSE he attempted to scuttle from the Philippines and was defeated
only by twenty patriotic Democrats who voted with the Republi
cans of the House.
BECAUSE he appointed as Secretary of State William J. Bryan after
denouncing him as a pest who should be "knocked into a cocked
hat."
BECAUSE he made possible Villa, murderer of men and despoiler
of women, and Carranza, the fatuous and futile "First Chief."
BECAUSE Wilson's text book statesmanship and grape-juice diplomacy
have made the United States an international laughing stock.
BECAUSE he appointed "deserving Democrats'' to the diplomatic corps,
displacing experienced men at a time when it was essential to the
foreign trade and honor of the United States to retain competent,
experienced men.
BECATSE he is incompetent to lead, ami \eers like a weather vane
•whenever a zephyr of public opinion soptiip to blow against him.
BECAUSE his "one-track mind" has too many turn-tables.
BECAUSE he lifted the embargo of arms to that the Mexican despe
radoes have used American ammunition to murder American sol
diers and civilians.
BECAUSE the promised "pitiless publicity" has been replaced by private,
special, secret negotiations by persona! agents and representatives,
appointed by President Wilson without "the advice and consent
of the Senate."
BECAUSE he reverses himself so rapidly that the entire country is
seasick from the motion.
BECAUSE he is for free trade, direct taxes and an empty treasury—
the same old Democratic trinity.
BECAUSE if the Payne-Aldrich law had been in operation in the
last nine months of 1915 we would have collected $91,656,161 more
than we did under the Underwood law. It would have met the
treasury deficits and have avoided war taxes. The foreigner selling
in our market got the entire benefit of the $91,656,161.
BECAUSE during the first ten months of the Wilson-Underwood law
there were more unemployed being fed by charity than during
any ten months in our history, excepting under the Wilson-
Gorman act.
BECAUSE of his inconsistency on the immigration bill. In hie "His
tory of the American People," toI. 6. p. 213, he wrote: "The Chi
nese were more to be desired a* workmen, if not as citizens, than
most of the coarse crew that came crowding in every year at th<
Eastern ports."
BECAUSE he has not reduced, as h« promised, the high cost of living.
but has actually made it higher.
BECAUSE he was pledged to a single term by the Baltimore conven
tion, but before the type was cold he was building up his fences
for another.
BECAUSE, although posing as an advocate of cml seroot, «v«ry art of
his as President in connection with civil serriee has been adverse to
its principle*, obstructive and destructive of its bonafide practice.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable price?,
this office.
come to
$1.50 Per Year
whereabouts. In his room was found
several suits of new underclothing,
socks, a new sweater and a flannel shirt.
He also left a pass book showing he
had a small balance to his credit in the
Leavenworth State Bank. Dr. Judah
says he concluded from the examination
made at the time he applied for whis
key the man had organic heart trouble.
Coroner Templeton says Riley was
about 65 years old. The body was
taken to Wenatchee for burial. An
attempt will be made to find his rela
tives. Riley had $47 coming to him
from the mill where he last worked.
The Endorsement of The Echo is Not for
Sale.
This is to say that if anybody tells you
The Echo received one penny for en
dorsing the candidacy of Wm. A. Grim
shaw "He lies like truth, and still most
truly lies."
The editor of The Echo advocates
his election because he has known him
intimately for some fourteen years and
considers him best fitted for the place.
Some folks say he "he's an old
crank." If having positive convictions
about the right and wrong side of any
question that comes up for solution;
if sticking to those he has tried and
found true; if refusing to swap old
friends for new; if refusing to crook
the hinges of the knee that thrift may
follow fawning; in short, if being just
himself, is evidence of crankiness he
pleads guilty to the soft impeachment.
Mrs. Walker of the Style Shop was
in Seattle the past week selecting goods
for her holiday trade.
Dr. A. P. Snyder and Mrs. Snyder
■ entertained at cards Wednesday even-
I ing.
