IN A BEMOCRA
CELINA
ONE PAPER
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGQE8T LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH TH HUB OF THE UNI
VER8E.
In thi HOME It worth tfoien In
the byway, and Just rimimbir THE
DEMOCRAT ! the home pa par af
Marear County. a a a
lCatr4 th Chn. lo, ptt-0ffi crid ! aitJl natter.
Volume 21, Number 30
Carlin & Carlin, Publishers
Celina, Ohio, November 3, 1916
THE
CEL
MICH?
Take our choice:
Unfiles iiml four years of agitation,
t'oiillict with CoiirehH iiml ilnulit in busi
ness nnil industry;
Or Wilson und (our year of develop
ment mIoiix lines now 1 lined, oj co-operation
with Congress, of certainty in
business and iiiiluMi y as tu governmental
polu it s.
The one means probable I.ivs of our
prospirily. The other ciiiil.iins K'sid
assuram e of conliuiiiiiK ami incrc.tsiiiK
prosperity.
'resident Wilson is clititii.il to rct-lcc-lion;
h- hart earned rewaid L K'"ilj
service reiiMerril Unities is n,,t clitl
tleil to election; he Ins not shown either
why Wilson hllotild he put out or why
he should lie put in. Hughes has not
even made a (joiid cmidiil.ile; Wilson
has made a Kod President.
It is up to you next Tuesday, Mr.
Voter take your choice.
WOODROW WILSON
President of the United States
Jp ' i?;i."Vi,v.-r1'X ,
it
LIT ?,(, XW?JiWi S A
"HE HAS KEPT US
This is the face of a man strong, coura
geous, patient and kindly, a man
Always alert to the aspirations of his fellow
man and sympathetic toward their fulfillment;
Never complacent toward the encroachments
of privilege nor tolerant of social wrong;
Always seeking to enhance the dignity of
labor and better the state of the toiler;
Never lending an ear to the sophistry of ex
ploitation or the blandishments of expediency;
Always patient to hear and weigh, to ap
praise and analyze, and passionate to find the
way of right;
Never premature in purpose nor prejudiced
in judgment, and never headlong in decision
Such is WOODROW WILSON.
BRYAN'S TRIBUTE
TO SENATIR POMERENE A FERVENT
APPEAL FOR HIS RETURN TO
UNITED STATES SENATE
From Bryan's Commoner for October
No United States Senator has supported
the Wilson administration more consist
ently or labored more faithfully to re
deem his party" pledges made In the Bal
timore platform than Senator Atlee Pom
erene. As a member of the banking- and
currenc ycommittee ho took a leading part
in drafting the Federl Reserve act and
the Federal Farm Loan act. A sa member
of the interstate commerce committee his
chief work was on the Federal Trade
Commission act and the Bill of Lading act
which hers his name. He was active In
hi support of the Income Tax law for
twenty years. As a member of the com
mittee on foreign relations he co-operated
enthusiastically with former Secretary of
State Wiliam J. Bryan In securing favor
able consldertlon by the senate of thirty
peace treaties with as many different na
tions has strongly supported the President
in hi interpretation of neutrality laws,
and has set his face like flint against in
tervention in Mexico, except as a last re
sort. Senator Pomerene during the first
two vears of his term was a member ot
the committee on pensions and he was
one of the enthusiastic supporters of the
present "age and service" pension law
which was approved May 10, 1912, ana
which Is the most generous pension law
ever passed by any legislative body of
any country In the world. He favored the
Ashbrook Pension law passed during the
closing days of the recent session, and is
on record as favoring the Key bill to pen
tion the widowa und orphans of the Span-
or
that
Port
i
He
cons
a
a
cai
l-tl' American war veteran. Othur mesa
un-H Miiurlml whole heaiiedly liy Senator
rumen-im. which show dim to be In aym
pathy ulih I Im best progressve thought
"I tin- day with: Kill to create a drpttrt-
iiu in or lalmr, hill to creat ehlillrent bu
' on. genural eight hour law on contract
i"i public work, hill to estuhlish Indus
li'lul relations commission, eight hour law
Im- women anil children In the district of
'iiluinlilii, lliii "ihoxH Jaw" hill for the
proiei-ilon or etiuiloyt-eN In matcn lactor
les, Ki-in-MciJIIIiuiJ.ly hill, Clayton anti
trust hill, i hlhl lahor hill, locomotive boil
er iiiieclluu act, luw to Increase salar
ies 1 iuiiiI rmli.wa lo $1.-00, law giving
postal Mi-rvli-e employees the rlKhl to or-
Kamze. limn grat on h i. Adamson. hill
Sinllli-Lever agricultural hill, good rouds
law, Alaskian railway, etc.
lie Is i of the hardest workers In the
senate uml otit of the most conscientious
men in inihllc lire. In IiIm campaign for
re-elect Inn Im 1.1 asking the voter of Ohio
lo Jiiilue him by hi record, and they
.ilmultl vol fur their own InlereMl hy -re
1111111111; Senator Poincrene to the upper
IllltlSe of COIIKI'eHN,
J. II. Gclhaua, living In Granville town
ship, a mile Houth of St. Henry, had a hip
ami three rlh broken lnt Friday when
a colt he was attempting to brouk, upset
the l Ik. lie Im 68 years of MKe and phyal
clan fi-ar he may nut withstand the accl
ihnt. lie In a brother of Herman Gel
I. aim. North Mill street, this city.
-OUT OF WAR"
JUDGE JAMES G. JOHNSON
in the case of the Judicial ballot, this
year, we do not need to consider parti
sanship. Happily, the election laws have
been so changed that we can choose men
to the bench fo their learning, their hon
esty and their gneral efficiency as admin
istrators of Justice. We can no longer,
In slipshod fashion, note the party brand
: . If
r.ul T. 1":::.' .CI r; h
" yunimeB Ol mo limn " -
the best service. We must know who are
the hench. what they stand for in me law
and tne better things of life, ii is every mg
mans duty ana privilege to mqu re into
,.i'j i .,j ' Vu. u u
machine OI
In this connection It is a Dleasure to say
there is no man more worthy of sup-
a ?eail i" n t h 8uprem
n,iu.i. .mh himuoir Phv.
s'lcally. a man of the Lincoln type, he
.Mil to ureal lecal learning, the rugged
,w.A i.(.raaHiv iniiFTncni htt
make the ideal occupant of the bench.
is a man of the type to be favorably
dered by any elector, wttn wnatever
oartv he may be affliated. Kdltorlal from
Columbus Dispatch, Oct. 8, 1916.
i- a l nrl,1,.i- of Denver. Colo.. two
guest at the James Riley home, South
Main street, while enrouie lo nosion ror
visit with relatives.
The ladies of the Relief Corps of the lo-
G. A. K. fOBi, are eonuuuiiog a rum-
mage sale, next door to the Mccomb tin tne
shop, West Market streei. ana aoucii me
general patronage of the public. old
The ladles of the Presbyterian church
open a rummage sale In the lingerer
building. South Main street, third door
south of the Democrat Ofllce, today.
JUDGES
AND CLERKS OF ELECTION WHO
WILL RESERVE AN O COUNT
YOUR BALLOTS
DEMOCRATS
BURKETTSVILLE ,
lien Hlnih-rH, Juiltse, Hurk.-ttxvillu, O.
Job. Irehel , JuiIku, Hui ketlHVIIIe, U.
Win. Uri Mher, clerk. Hurkutlvile.
BLACKCREEK TOWNSHIP
J. 10. Knyih-r, prexlilliiK Jmlwi.-. Wlllxhlrev
i'hlllp I-'. Schuiii, JuilK", Itoi kloid, It. i.
J. 1-; .1'lliti, clerk. WlllHhlre, K. 1.
BUTLER TOWNSHIP
Henry (1. I'ppenkamu. oruxldini: Juilue,
Ht. Henry, It. i.
Noah t'oate, JudKe, (V-llna, It. 6.
Henry Schroer, clerk, t'oldwater.
CELINA, FIRST WARD
II J. Sl. lz.-r, pri-HldliiK Jude, Celina.
IVti-r Sliolili-r, JudKe, cVlliui.
Clyde ThoiniiA, clutk, Celina.
CELINA, SECOND WARD
Noah Fry, presiding JudKc, Celina.
V. J. Maehhnan, Judtw, Celina.
Wm. t'oale, clerk, Celina.
CELINA, THIRD WARD
Charles Deitrick, presiding JuiIkc, Ci--
na.
Chaih-M SihIkhh, JuiiKe, Celina.
(fi-oi'Ku Kiiothel, ceirk, Celina.
CELINA, FOURTH WARD
W. i:. He) nold, prcHldiuif Judfc-e, Celi
na.
Frank fteti, JudKe, Celina.
J. 10. IlaudahauKh, clerk, Celina.
CENTER TOWNSHIP
T. IJ. Khiher, JudKe. Celina, It. 4.
S. S. Youiikit. Jude. Celina. K. 3.
W W. William, clerk. Celina, K. 11).
CHICKASAW
John 1' Kreoifer, presidini; Juilue, Chick-
asuw.
Joseph .Mesleinuker, Judh'e, Chlckaxaw.
l-'iaiik liilenhop, clerk, Chickasaw.
COLDWATER
l.in Snyder, pi. siillnK Judne. Coldwatcr
K. A. Kianks. Judge, (,'ohlwater.
Aiikusi II. Ileinard, clerk, Colilwuler.
DUBLIN, NORTH
lliih Dull. presldliiK Judge, ilockford,
Jacob Honks, Jutlue, llockfoid, It. 4.
John Shaler, elerk, ItiMkiord, It. 4.
DUBLIN, SOUTH
Jc.-me Sioilh, JudKe, Itockford.
.Sampson l.ee, Judh'e, Itockford.
W. li. TiiiKley, clerk, Itockford.
DUBLIN, EAST
Allen Hays, Judwe, Itockford. It. 3.
(J. N. Countel inan. luilue lo.x'kford H.
3.
I toy Near, clerk. Itockford, It. 3.
FT. RECOVERY, NORTH
Otto Nonmirm, presidiiiK Judije, Ft. lte-
covery.
Jerry Stoner, Judtje, Ft. Itecovery.
N. B. I'luKcman, clerk. Ft. itecovery.
FT. RECOVERY, SOUTH
H W. CuniiiiiKham, JudKe, Ft. Itecov
ery.
e red t 'liner, JudKe, Ft. Itecovery.
John How ers. clerk. Ft. Itecovery.
f' -t 6'f-RANKLI'N TOWNSHIP
Jos. H. Kloaterman, presiding judu,
Aioiiiexuuia.
I i v If t Hole. Judtie, Montezuma.
Alhert Harrison, clerk, .Montezuma.
GIBSON TOWNSHIP
Adam Hoeuing, presiding JudKe, Ft. Ite
covery.
1'eter J hchmltz, Juuire, Ft. Itecovery.
Wm. Flayler, clerk. Ft. Itecovery.
GRANVILLE TOWNSHIP
J. C. I.uken, presiding JudKe, St. Henry.
J. J. I hlenliake, judwe. St. Henry
J Herman, clerk, St. Henry.
HOPEWELL TOWNSHIP
Cha. A. Siebert, JudKe, Celina, It. 9.
Chas. Fruhni, judye. Celina. it. 9.
Geo. A. Siebert, clerk. Celina, it. 3.
JEFFERSON TOWNSHIP
("has (. Carpenter. urPaidinir luilre T-
lina. It. U.
John J. Knupke, JudKe, Celina, R. D.
Frank it. Staeger .clerk. Celina, K. I).
LIBERTY TOWNSHIP
W. 10. Cllhbons, presiding Judge, Celina,
Lewis KKKer, JuiIkc, Itockford, it. 5.
John Sudlioff, clerk, Celina, it. 7.
MARION, EAST
Jos. (ioeke, presiding Judge. Maria
Stein.
John D. Kramer. Judge, Maria Stein.
John .M. Kramer, clerk, Maria Stein.
MARION, WEST
Fred J. Cottemoeller. oresiding hi dire
Chickacaw, H. 1.
hred IJertke Judge St. Henry, It. 2.
I.eo Hemmelg-arn, clerk .Carthagena.
MENDON
F. M. Maurer, Judge, Mendon.
i. H. Disher, judge, Mendim.
I 'red l.utz. clerk, Mendon.
MONTEZUMA
C. Tobin, presiding Judge, Montezuma.
John Harrison, Judge, Montezuma.
W. A. I'reston, clerk, .vlontezuma.
RECOVERY TOWNSHIP
John Broekman. presiding Judge. Vic
toria.
Ben Westgerdes, Judge, Ft. Recovery.
Jos. I'. Hohmun .clerk. Ft. Recovery.
ROCKFORD
Wm. Christian, presiding Judge. Rock-
ford.
Chun. Snyder, judge, Itockford.
Geo. Smith, clerk , Itockford.
ST. HENRY
Joseph J. Schlosser. presiding Judge. St.
Henry.
Henry Fleley, judge, St. Henry.
Alois Harding, clerk, St. Henry.
UNION TOWNSHIP
C. V. Hood, Judge, Mendon.
C. - Snyder, Judge, Mendon
Meii Roller, clerk, Mendon.
WASHINGTON, NORTH
J P. Wright, presiding Judge, Celina.
William Sudhoff, Judge, Ft. Recovery.
. C. Thatcher, clerk, Ft. Recovery.
WASHINGTON, SOUTH
John Konrath, presiding Judge.
John Schroer, Judge. Ft. Recovery. R. 2.
George Hassan, clerk, Ft. Recovery, R. 2
REPUBLICANS
BURKETTSVILLE
Hosea Birt. presiding Judge.
J. W. Birt, Judge.
Wm. Rood, clerk.
(Continued on Eighth Page)
THE GRIM REAPER
Jacob Becher, aged 56 years, died at his
at Chattanooga last Friday evening.
,. A - , .
a number of years, but was in his usual
hmuj.. nUuuc...., ...
the night.
Funerai ge,vies were held last Monday
morning at the Lutheran church at Chat
tanooga. His sister. Mrs. P. W. Deltsch
lnl city, attenaea ine iunerai services.
Roy Kmrlck, aged 20 years, died last
Saturday at the hospital at Springfield, of
typhoid pneumonia. A wife, an 18 months
old baby, his father two sisters and one
brother survive. The latter Is David
Fmerick. of Coldwater.
Funeral services were held at Swamp
College last, luesday morning.
Mrs. William Weaver, aged 60 years.
died at her home, a mile north-east of this
city, last Monday morning, following a
week s illness, sne was rour times
married and is survived by her fourth
i'im. ruirenuncivitcs vc. uem jo-
leruay.
Common Pleas Judge Miller last Friday
heard and overruled the motion to quash
Indictment against K. H. Vingling
charged with criminally abusing 14-year
Regina SchmiU. of St. Henry, employ
ed by vingling at the Ashley Hotel. The
case was set for trial December 19.
"Big Pete" sold 1114 pairs of shoes, sox,
and gloves last Saturday
WHEN THIEVE8 FALL OUT
The $iiHi,0nu corruption fund which
been raised among the Republican mil
Ih.nalres of Ohio to make Myron T. Her
rick a I 'lilted Stales Senator, 1 caualn,
all kinds of trouble In the back district
Some of the old tallhful worker have no
yet seen the color of the money and ye
they know It I present. In Toledo, Cha
II. Nuul Is now nursing a beautiful pai
of Mai k eye because one o( hi lleulen
ants claimed he waa holding out on him
WILLIS
AND C. O. P. CAUGHT IN THEIR OWN
TRAP IN FIXING FORM
OF BALLOT
(Ohio Slate Journal, Rep. J
Because of the confusing form In whlc
I he ballot has been printed In Ohio pol
Mi lan are predicting a larger number of
straight ballots will be cast this year than
ever before.
There is no line of demarcation whatev
er lietwecn the national and slate ticket.
The county ticket will be altuched Immi
liiiiely beneath the state ticket.
Alter a person voles for president and
vice piesldent It will be dllllcult for him
to find the state and county candidate,
and the tendecy will be, politicians assert
to mark the ballot at the top and let It go
as u straight one.
I'artlcularly hard I It to locate the can
didates for t'nlted State senator, because
they are hidden away under the state
ticket.
This form of ballot was designed early
In the campaign when Republicans thot
Charles 10. Hughes wis going to carry the
slate and that therefore a ballot with no
distinguishing mark would be a big help
to Governor Willis. They have been be
rating the scheme ever since the Wilson
tide set In.
Similarly, Republican are admitting it
wus folly for their leglslaure in 1915 to
reunite the national and stfite balot after
the Cox legislature had separated them
hy providing separate ballot.
THE FREACERS' BRIGADE
The i'reachers' Prohibition Brigade will
put un their musical dialogue at the City
Hall, this (Friday j evening. November 3
There will be ho set speeches hut good
music consisting of uuartetes, solo, in
terspersed with witty and lively conver
sation. The program ha given such good
satislactlon over the county mat 1'ror. 1-..
W. Lough .state chulrman of the Prohi
bition, is anxious to get a synopsis of the
dialogue with a view to having It pub
htlied for use throughout the state. Inch
cations are that the City Hall will be full
this evening. Program will start at 8:00
o'clock. Prof. West and hi Boys' Band
will escort the crowd to the Hall.
Other eiigiiKcmcnts of the Brigade are
as follows: ( opus t hapel, Ihursday
night; Neptune, Saturday night at t:00
clock and Itockford at 8:00 o clock.
DISASTER
SEEN BY WASHINGTON POST HOS
TILE TO WILSON, IT WARNS RE
PUBLICANS TO DO SOMETHING
Washington, Oct 29. The Washington
post, notoriously hostile to the adminls
tratlon, in it leading editorial today
warns Republican against Impending dis
aster on Nov. 7.
'When the state of Ohio gives sign of
going to Wilson by a heavy plurality, it
is not surprising that the Republicans
are worried," It say.
"Call everything guesswork. If you like.
Stress the fact that no one can foretell
anything. Yet no one can honestly shut
hi eyes to he visible. Mr. Wilson has
unquestionably gained upon Mr. Hughe
during the latter half of October.
"Seven working day remain before the
election. Anything may happen, of
course, but the history of previous elec
tions does not disclose any case In which
the last week of a campaign upset all that
has gone before, or even materially al
tered the trend of public opinion.
"The people drift toward Mr. Wilson
Is outstanding feature of the late cam
paign, it i the great, definite fact that
confront the Republican managers
throughout the North. They must meet
and master it this week or it will defeat
them."
FT. RECOVERY
GETS WORSE SERVICE THAN EVER
IN PROPOSED L. E. W. TIME
SCHEDULE
The most radical change In passenger
service on any railroad of this city in re
cent year is the new schedule of the
Luke Kiie & Western, w hich becomes ef
fective November 12.
The new schedule will prove more dis
satisfying than ever to Ft. Recovery re
sidents and will undoubtedly necessitate
more jitney bus service as under the
change Ft. Recovery residents can not get
to this city and return tne same aay.
The new time card is as follows:
WEST BOUND
No. S, leaving Lima at 7 a. m., (dally) ar
rives at Celina at 8:10 a. m.
No. 1. leaving Sandusky at 8:10 a. m.
(daily, except Sunday) arrives here at
12:33 p. m. Big Four train leaving
Cleveland at 7 a. m. connects with this
train at Fremont.
EAST BOUND
No. 2; (daily except Sunday) arrives at
Celina at 1:00 p. m. This train makes
direct connection at Sandusky for the
lake Shore flyer arriving at Cleveland
at 7:30 p. m.
N. 4, (daily) arrives here at 6:30 p. m.
This train runs only as far as Lima.
MISS ELLA M. HASS TO SPEAK AT
WOMAN'S MEETING NOV. 8
Miss Ella M. Haas, of Dayton, former
state fatory inspector and factory worker,
wil discuss the problem of "Women In In
dustry" with especial reference to the
question of Women Suffrage) before a
meeting for women in this city, Wednes
day night, November 8, at 7:30 in the
Opera House.
Miss Haas unique experience in factory
life has fitted her in an exceptional way
to speak upon this question. She brings
a story of the working girl which Is full
of meaning for every woman.
All women are invited to be present at
he meelng. No admission is charged.
Edward Cantwell. aged 85 years, em
ployed on the Grover Nuding farm, six
miles north of this city, was badly injur
ed In a motorcycle and automobile acci
dent north of town, last Saturday evening.
Roy Groves employed at the furniture
factory received an ugly wound above the
right eye last Friday, when a board, he
wus running through a rip-saw. slipped
striking him In the forehead.
Announcement has been made here of
the aooroachtng wedding the latter part
of this month of Fred Bursaw. of Bruns
wick. Maine, and Miss Margaret wets, ot
Duvlon .daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Peter
W'clu, formerly of this city.
PANIC
EXISTS IN G. O. P. CAMP, ACCORDING
TO NEW YORK PAPER QUOT
ING CAMPAIGN CHIEF
New York, October 30. The Urenlng
Telegram, which 1 the afternoon -edition
of the Herald, to-day printed the follow
ing: "All hough every effort Is being made to
conceal the state of feeling that prevails
at Republican national headquarters, It is
known that the campaign managers are
bordering on a punlc, and so desperate do
I hey feel to-day that they are at a loss
lo which way to turn. This was the ad
mission of owe of the most active mem-
liers of the Republican National Cam
paign Committee. Every precon-
Iveil arrangement for the closing
the campaign bus had to be changed and
the 'S. O. S.' signs that are coming in
from every Republican state In the Mid-
lie west have the campaign managers
In despair.
"Charles s. Hat field. Chairman of the
Ohio Slate Republican Committee, has
lit a telegram to national headquarters
demanding that 21 speakers of uatloiiul
iiuliitlnii tie sent Into that state, to re
main there this week, and he also has In
sisted that none but thut kind of orators
e sent to him.
"The fact that Theodore Roosevelt is
o go into the state also Is taken by po-
itlclal observers to mean that the Re
publicans are going to take a chance of
using the (ierman-American vote in or
der to make a drive to gain the labor vote
and to appeal to the patriotism of the
0 c .
" 'We can be no worse off without the
lermiin-Amerlean vote than we are now,"
slid one of the campaign managers, it
desperate chance to take, but we
mist take It. Our hope is that the Ger
nan Americans will be so intensely
iwilnst President Wilson that they will
overlook what Roosevelt says, and lie
guliled by the speeches that Hughes will
tiake in that state.
"William It. Wilcox, Chairman of the!
epubljcun National Committee, has said!
resident Wilson cannot be elected with
out New York or Indiana, and asserts he
an carry neither of these states.
"Another matter that Is worrying the
leniibllcans is that not at any time dur-
ng I he campuign has Theodore Roosevelt
nedicted the election of Hughes. Even
n his return from his last Western trip
he best that Roosevelt would say to give
Republicans encouragement was that
be situation was better than it was a
fortnight before. One who came from Chl-
ngo witli Roosevelt and who enjoys the
latter's confluence, told a friend that he
egarded the states of Wisconsin, Mlchi-
iin, Indiana and Ohio as irretrievably lust
o the Republicans."
JUDGE MAURICE H. DONAHUE
Among the various candidates on the
onpartlsan Judicial ticket this fall, prob-
bly none deserves more consideration, at
he hands of the voters, than Judge Mau-
Ice H. Donahue who Is seeking re-elec-
lon to the Supreme bench.
He has won distinction In serving the
t.'ite of Ohio, proving that he possesses
nd exercise exceptional canalilllty as a
Hist. His partlciiiation in decisions has
een guided by justice and sensible inter
relation of the law; his vision has been
r; his legal opinions have been clear.
'oni'lse, and his record as a whole has
become a matter of pride to his countless
rleruis.
In addition to this, Judge Donahue Is a
ntleman who combines with the dig
Ity appropriate to his high ortlce, 1
leasing and genial personality.
His friends are properly urging tnat his
mbltion to succeed himself as a Justice
f the supreme court, is a laudaoie one.
'ditorlal from Columbus Dispatch, Oct. 1
16.
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Wyckoff. of Miami
Florida, have returned to their southern
ome Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Wyckofr and
R. R. Wyckoff accompanied them as far
Cincinnati The latter went irom the
Queen City on to Missouri to look after a
redge contract they have in tnat state
ATTENTION
FACTS AND FIGURES AS THEY AP
PEAR ON COUNTY RECORDS.
Mr. Tax Payer, how much are you con
'ihuting to help pay the taxes on the
$18,578.60, that failed to get on the tax
uplicute as shown by the following cer-
Iflcutes, to-wit:
HK STATE OF OHIO.
ERCER COUNTY. SS.
I. H. J. Stelzer. hereby certify that I
n the County Recorder in and tor Mer
r County. Ohio, and that I have made
search of the Mortgage records of Aler
cer County, Ohio, on this 28th day of
ugust. 116. and I also certity tnai c. .
ounger was on and before the 21st., day
of April, 11116 the owner of real estate
mortgages to tne value oi jii.iiM.ou, ana
also that he was the owner oi cnattle
Mortgages to the value of J675.00, mak
imr a total of 122.078.60 on the mortgage
Records of Mercer County, Ohio, in the
name of C. S. Younger, that said mort
iires were in the name of C. S. lounger
on the 21st., day of April, 1916, and for
t least three months prior tnereio.
H. J. SItLitH.
Recorder of Mercer County, Ohio.
Subscribed and sworn before me this
:0th day of September, 1916.
P. E. K EN N EY.
Notary Public, Mercer County, Ohio
THE STATE OF OHIO
KRCER COUNTY, SS.
I. J. F. Steinbrunner, hereby certify
that I am the Auditor of Mercer county,
(')hlo. and as such officer the original re
turn as made out by the tax payers of
Mercer County, Ohio, setting iorm me
property owned by each and every tax
paver. Is In my possession and that I have
examined the return made by C. S.
Younger on the 21st day of April, 1916;
that the said C. S. Younger reported to
the assessor that he had the sum of $3,600
in money, notes, mortgages and securi
ties subject to taxation; that the said C.
S. Younger is on the tax duplicate for
notes, mortgages, money and securities
for the sum of $3500.00; that said return
and oath to the same was signed by the
said C. B. Younger on the 21st day of
April, 1916.
J. F. STEINBRUNNER.
Auditor of Mercer County, Ohio.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this
20th day of September, 1916.
P. E. KENNEY.
Notary Public, Mercer County, Ohio.
The above may explain why Mr. Young
er is able to own several farms, and sev
eral properties in Celina, and fine home
and valuable acres formerly owned by the
Hon. T. J. Godfrey.
Mr. Younger may say that some of
these loans were made for other parties.
We are unable to see any reason why he
should loan some one's else money and
take the note and mortgage In his own
name, unless It Is for the purpose of de
ceiving the tax collector.
One thing we do Know ana inai is inai
on the 20th day or August air.
Younger took a note and mortgage in ms
own name for tne sum or joouu.uu wun o
per cent. Interest, and tne same was nis
own nrnnnrtv because he signed a can
cellation of said mortgage on the 6th day
of June 1916, about two months after the
assessor had been arouna. mis mort
gage is recorded In Vol. 70 at Page 604
Mortgage Records of Mercer County, O.
If Mr. Younger Is loaning money lor
other parties and taking the notes and
mortgages In hie own name for the pur
pose of helping them dodge their taxes,
it Is a great deal worse than for him to
doilge his own taxes.
We believe that Mr. Younger ought to
he nlaced on the tax duplicate for $22,000.-
00 Instead of $3,600.00.
And he want to be Probate Judge of
Mercer County
DIRTY, CONTEMPTIBLE TRICK
That private lighting companies will
stoop to any dirty means tn secures fran
chise in illustrated in the CglK of the
people of St. Marys for continued muni
cipal ownership, headed by Kditor John
1. Sullivan, of thut city, vs. the Western
Ohio traction people, who are seeking-
St. Marys franchise. Just recently the
Clerk of the liord of Aflairs of this city
wus approached and asked to inquire of
the W.O. people at what rate light could
be furnished to Celina hy that company,
which he did after earnest solicitation.
This question, it developed, was put to
Clerk I'etrie to create un impression Ce-
linu was dissatisfied with municipal
ownership, which is nut true. The
inquiry was immediately made use of,
and made to appear Celina was seek
ing light at private hands, and so herald
ed prominently and brazenly in a publi
cation interested iu combating muni-
ctpal ownership, it is fortunate the
,f lirty business came to public attention
tarly urn'Sll to (,-et the matter before
the people of St. Marys before election
,1;'- is t'" a place for men
who win use sucn tactics to niisiciu tne
people. This is only one instance of the
corrupt niethoils employed to deceive
the voters in the St. Marys figiit by
those who would virtually rob the people
of a valuable property
C. C. CARLIN, Kditor Democrat.
EVERYTHING
IN READINESS FOR BIG CONVENTION
OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR ERS
ROCKFORD NEXT WEEK
Friday .Nov. 10th, 9:30 a. m.
Registration of delegates.
lievotianal Rev. A. Arthur Urlffes.
Minutes of last meeting.
10:15, Address Rev. Frank L. Freet.
Conference. Adjournment.
Friday utternoon session, 1 o'clock.
Hall hour song service demonstrating
proper way to sing in C. E. Prayer Meet
ing Rev. Frank H. Suavely.
1:30, Address Rev. Henry F. Shupe,
Conference on above by speaker.
Song.
Conference "The C. E. Meeting and
how to treat the attendance." Conducted
hy Win. A. i'reston.
Song
Echoes of the State Convention at
Cpringlield last June Earl Wagner.
"The Campaign for Millions Mercer
County's part and how to get it." Arch
D. Cordier.
Adjournment for supper.
Friday evening session 7:00.
Special music By Eudeavorers of
Roekford.
Devotional Rev. Ames.
Address, "War, Work, Worship." Rev.
Frank L. Freet.
Song by Convention.
Address Rev. H. F. Shupe
Offering.
Reading, "The Prodigal Church" Miss
Carolyn Rutherford.
Illustrated Address, "The Fruits of C.
E." Rev. W. E. Turner
Benediction.
Saturday morning, 8:30.
Quiet Hour conducted by Rev Fleet.
Address by Rev. J. P. Hight.
Address by Rev. H F. Shupe
Conference of the different departments:
tyuiet Hour and Evangelism, Purity, Mis
sionary .Junior and Stewardship by State
and oCunty Leaders.
Report of Nominating Committee.
Adjournment for dinner.
Saturday afternoon, 1 sharp.
Opening Exercise by Junior.
Junior Work Miss Margaret tjuinby.
Song Celina Juniors.
Demonstration of dramatising Bible
Stories Miss Olive Protsman.
Short Address by Frank L. Freet, fol
lowed by Decision Service.
Installation of new officers.
Adjournment.
C. E. Benediction.
AS SEEN BY INNOCENT BYSTANDER
Looking at the political situation In
Mercer County from an innocent bystand
er's point of view, the outlook is that
more democratic votes will be polled No
vember 7, than ever before. Three months
ago a large percentage of the German
democrats were openly or secretely anti
Wilson. Republican candidate Hughes
has not met their expectations and time
has proven that President Wilson has
maintained peace with honor and always
adopted the most logical course in the so
lution of international complications.
This patriotic class of citizens holds A
merica first In all things and when elec
tion day comeS they will cast their bal
lot for the man whom they consider the
moi-t capable and competent. ft. Recov
try Tribune-Journal.
Mrs. Clayton Smith, of Liberty town
ship suffered a fracture of the right arm
last Sunday alternaon, when a horse
frightened and upset a buggy in which
she und Mr. Smith were riding. Mr.
Smith escaped without injury.
The State Liquor Licensing Board this
week reversed the decision of tne Mercer
County Board given on October 30. reject
ing the application for license or E. J.
Winans .and Mr. Wlnans will accordingly
be permitted to continue in business.
To the Public and Voters:
I am a candidate for my second term as
probate judge of Mercer County to be
voted for at the coming election. During
my first term, which expires Feb. 9. 1917,
I have given my best efforts and Judg
ment to the duties of the office and there
by endeavored to merit the approval of
all honest and fair-mnided men.
It seems that the ulterior purposes of
some candidates can only be worked out
by the once common and popular meth
ods of the political liar and character as
sassin. The selfish ambition of my wor
thy (?) opponent through his agents is
resorting to false and malicious slander
of the undersigned In order to attain his
purpose to be elected to the Probate
Judgeship.
It therefore becomes necessary, In or
der to expose their stealthy, and slander
ous falsehoods, to direct your attention to
the facts out of which my opponent and
his agents are fabricating their false
hoods. Somewhat more than a year ago
I was falsely charged with an offense
against the law. I immediately demand
ed a hearing before the court. Without
choice, solicitation or knowledge on my
part, Judge Kyle, of Xenla, Ohio, who
was a stranger to me and a republican
was assigned to hear the case, and after
a vigorous presentation by both sides, and
careful consideration Dy tne judge, tne
case was dismissed and thrown out of
cour. These facts can be substantiated
by any one consulting the public records
and the action of the Court. I have In
my possession four affidavits made by
four of the most respected citizens of
Mercer County, that would convince any
fair minded man that this charge woe
made against me solely for the purpose
of blackmail. (I do not mean this for any
of the officers of the County.)
It would seem that after the dismissal
of the charge by Judge Kyle, one of the
ablest judges or Ohio ana a iair, impar
tial Jurist, taken with the presumption of
Innocence which surrounds every indivi
dual who Is charged with the violation of
law, that the matter would be at an end,
but the ' ends of Justice" and the "ends
of my political opponent" apparently are
radically amerent.
The undersigned Is only asking for that
which the American People regard as the
right to every man A SQUARE DEAL.
The voters of this county by their vote
can stamp their disapproval on the meth
ods of the palitlcal character assassin and
ill such methods. For any aid extenaea
to me on election day, I sincerely thank
you in advance and will strive to deserve
the npprova1 of al' honorable and fair
minded men In the admlnlstratio of any
duties that fall to my Int.
Very respectfully,
ORVELLE RAUDABAUQH.
Ctllna, Ohio, Nov. 2, 1916. - . ,
SCHEME
TO ARRAY SOCIETY OF CINCINNATI
CATHOLICS AGAINST PRESIDENT
WILSON FALLS FLAT
Efforts to have the candidacy of Chas.
E. Hughes for I'resident Indorsed by the
German Roman Catholic Centralbund of
Hamilton County, in session at St. Fran
cis Hall, Liberty and Vine streets, failed
when a majority of members present went
on record In opposition to having politics
Injected Into the organization .
The discussion arose after Secretary
Joseph Schwartz had read a letter from
the national head. matters of the organi
zation in Philadelphia, advising German -American
voters to support Hughes for
President.
August B. Gorbach, President of the
I "lilted German Societies of Hamilton
County, and also Chairman of the Oer-mun-Amerlcan
Alliance, moved an In
dorsement of Hughes.
Instantly a storm of protest broke
loose, which did not subside until Mr.
Gorluich, at the request of President Geo.
H. Doeger. had withdrawn his motion. He
offered a substitute motion to receive the
letter and lay It on the table, which car
ried. opposition to the original motion was
led by hlf a dozen speakers, prominent
among whom were Joseph Burning and J.
Nelle. One speaker Is said to have ac
cused Mr. Gorbach of trying to drag the
German-speaking Roman Catholics Into
the political scheme of the Cerman-Amor-lean
Alliance, which he denied.
Mr. Gurhai'h said last night he withdrew
the motion when he saw It had no chance
to carry. He admitted the sentiment of
the members present was overwhelmingly
against a Hughes Indrosement.
It developed also at the meeting the
plan to have Hughes Indorsed at a meet-
nig of the Federated German Societies
In Central Turner Hall last Friday night
was abandoned because of strong opposi
tion among the membership.
It Is understood the stand taken by the
two organizations was very disconcerting
to the leaders of the Cincinnati branch of
the German-American Alliance, who had
counted on the moral effect of the indorse
ments upon the German-American voters
In Cincinnati. Cincinnati Enquirer, Oct
ober 31.
Joseph Iteming is well known to a host
of Celina people and to the German popu
lation of our town and county, with whom
he is a great favorite. Joseph knows a
gold brick when he sees It.
COLONEL LEVIS,
WIDELY KNOWN SOCIALIST AND
NEWSPAPER MAN JUMPS FENCE
TO DEMOCRACY
Lima Dally NewsJ
"What's the sense of turning a hose
into the ocean when you can put out a
tire with It?"
This is the significant philosophy of a
former socialist leader and union organi
zer who has found that progressive legis
lation of the odvanced but sane type can
he secured through a democratic admlnls
trtion beaded by Woodrow Wilson, says
the St. Marys Leader.
The man in question Is Colonel E. B.
Lewis, a veteran newspaper man of U
nui, who is in the city working for Wil
son. Pomerene and Welly. He has been
a socialist leader in Coulmbus and Lima
for a number of years, but Is now advo
cating the election of a democratic presi
dent and congress.
Lewis was editor of the Ohio Socialist,
the party organ, for three years. He
frankly says that Wilson and Cox have
dune so many things for the workers that
it's the safest bet for the workers to
stand by Wilson, Cox. Pomerene and the
entire democratic ticket.
TALKS OF WALL STREET
The colonel says: "Wall street Is against
Wilson. The workers are for him. Ev
ery financial crook in the fourth congres
sional district is against Ben Welty for
Congress. The common people are for
him. The exploiters of child labor and
every enemy of the working class are
against Wilson, Cox. Pomerene and Wel
ty, but the people are for the whole
bunch."
"The nation needs four more years of
Wilson," says Colonel Lewis, "and all
broad-minded men who are interested in
progress, whether they are republicans,
democrats, bull-moosers, socialists or pro
hibitionists, will see In the record of the
Wilson admlnstration a great deal of rad
ical legislation federal reserve banking
system, currency reform, child labor,
eight hour day, reasonable preparedness
and a lot of things which common sense
would demand."
"That's why I'm for Wilson. I could
vote the Socialist ticket out of sentiment,
hut I'm going to put my vote where It
will do some good, while I am alive. One
more means a bigger majority for Wood
row. A vote for a third candidate won't
have any effect on the ultimate decision."
MISSIONARY WORK
Lewis is voluntarily doing missionary
w ork among the northwestern Ohio work
ing men. "What's the sense of electing
Wilson on his progress performaces un
less he has a congress which will support
him and back his measures?"
Colonel Lewis was the originator of
many of the socialist locals In Ohio and
has been prominent In the labor move
ment for years. His argument will appeal
to working men as he is himself a union
printer. As there Is no socialist candi
date for congress, Iewis hopes to show
the working men that their Interests de
mand support for Welty.
RING IN BULL'S NOSE
Republicans are mad. They can't make
a panic. Wilson put a ring in the nose
of Wall Street Bull. Now the bull Is
tame. Behaves well. The ring Is the
Federal Reserve Bank Law. It took away
the power to make panics. In 1912, the
New Y'ork Kisses said Wilson waa a tender-foot.
Wall street was mistaken. Wil
son is their master. He has made the
boss Jump through hoops, turn somersalt,
thumbs up and thumbs down. Republi
cans say they could lick Democrats If
they could make a panic like they used
to do. Never again will the G. O. P. win
the white house by aid of bank failures
and financial ruin The New York Bull
for the first time has a ring in his nose.
Wilson handles him with ease and safety
to all. The tenderfoot has become
master. Ottawa Sentinel.
the
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
Otto Frahm and Miss Leona Pierstorff.
well known voune neoole of Hopewell
township, were married by Rev. Relts, of
the Lutheran church at tne parsonage, a.
Anthony street, on the 26th ult. The
groom is a son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Frahm and the bride a daughter of Mrs.
George Pierstorff. They will reside with
the bride s motner.
MARRIAGE LICENSES ISSUED
Clifton R. Dock, 23, farmer, Jefferson,
township, son of B. H. Dock, and Marie
Fleenor, IS, housekeeper, Jefferson town
ship, daughter of H. B. Fleenor. C. D.
Rice. J. P.
Albert J. Sehaffeld, 34, woodworker, of
Bernard, son of Albert Sehaffeld, and Ca
therine R. Sehaffeld, 34, housekeeper, of
Burkettsvllle, son of Geo. VonDenbosch,
Rev. Schweitzer.
J. O. Brock, 39, veneer cutter. Celina,
son of O. H. Brock, and Mrs. Rose Smith,
36. mlliner, Celina, daughter of Fred
Koch. Rev. Hartman.
Wm. Linn. 22. farmer. Liberty township.
son of Chris Linn, and Martha Behmer, 18,
rumseKeeper, iwerty township, daughter
of John Kehmer. Rev. Egger.
Edward H. Wlllman, 20, farmer, son of
Harry E. Wlllman ,and Eiva Jones, 19,
housekeeper, Ft. Recovery, daughter of
Albert Junes,
