fIOiTH YEAR. No. 20.
Hon, miles poindexter
|VI addreaa the citizens of
|ONvilleatthe Orpheum to-
H efht Everybody turn out.
■ A GHASTLY FACT.
I VUc the Second Washington Regiment
■w it Callxlco, within 1000 yards of a
■ udcu garrison and a large force of ful.
■ italaodemly eaulpped Mexicans, none
■ a Madly, dot a cartridge waa issued
■ •acacmbers of the regiment, and some
■ (no* were in no condition to use
■SB with cartridges. Our boys, who loy.
■ e mswered the call for service, were
■ iMta that hazardous position by the
■ dafehtntlon, In the face of a vicious
■ war, Without means of protection. It
■ w emceed the Mexicans were hostile.
■ ■rig Ike call to arms? The Mexicans ox
■ Mah could have attacked the 2nd
■ IMtafton and the boys would have
■ha perfectly helpless. The present ad.
■ thWiaUoo thus cruelly and recklessly
■ japudlted the lives of my boy and your
■ hr. «hd the man who supports the ad
■ mention must naturally endorse this
IdM act Of course Mr. Dill must en
■ MMkally endorse this exposure of the
■ of the state to massacre, for
■ hands for the president and all his acts
■ Meehaeiels an absolute fact.. We have
■ tota cf It since the return of the regi.
■ sat from the border, but have refrained
■Ma esnmentlng upon it as placing men
■ bach Jeopardy seems too horrible to
■ aaL Bit now the charge eminates from
■lt eoapany from North Yakima that
■ and In the tad Washington. Any voter
■ dMb Mace can easily have the charge
■ ndMbjr making inquiries.
i spiidV‘packer.
■ knurr Arid of endeavor there is
■■■to bp found some one Individ
■JjktoP expert than the average
■»ntot In any one particular line.
visited G. J. Walderf’s
ISKff during the past week have
■to ra opportunity of seeing this
■•toutt verified. Apples were being
fiP ADVERTISEMENT. PAID ADVERTISEMENT. PAID ADVERTISEMENT.
i—" - ■ ..... . - - • 1
You Must Decide
Ml« up to you and every one of you citizens of Washington, to help next Tuesday In fixing the course of your
and your state for the next four years. You cannot shirk your duty. You know the difference between
Waaperity and hard times. You know the difference between what history has proved to be right and what
"Parlance has shown to be wrong. You know the difference between national honor and national disrepute.
Tou know the needs of your state, your community, your home. You must not be swayed b> falsehoo
« oratory or silly sentamentalism. This is a serious business. You must act upon your knowledge of the
tKtS.
THINK ABOUT BEFORE TOU VOTEjIIERE ABE JUST A FEW THINGS TO
*■* TARIFF—Every Industry of the state has been hit by the Democratic tariff. Labor and capital the
Rrmer and the business man alike, the producer and the consumer in every line, all have ohanee
•offer by having everything the state produces on the Democratic “free list. There is no ope
by the election of Hughes and a republican congress.
THIS STATE HAS NEVER PROSPERED UNDER DEMOCRATIC RULE—AND NEVER WILL.
*« WORT HOUR DAY-Every one knows that so called eight hour law was forced through cWHjby
*“*« in order to give—AT THE EXPENSE OF ALL SHIPPERS- a 25 per cent n of the
*••» favored workmen, thereby Inducing these favored ones to attempt to herd t e w
•ttlon to Wilson In vain hope of similar favors.
•EHOCRATIC RULE HAS ALWAYS LESSENED THE CHANCE 10 "JHAi SIVAIIV OS! HHO.W H
*AH~Ha» Wilson “kept us out of war?” American lives and property have been ru^* 8 ** y and
•‘"lean war. Our soldiers and sailors have Invaded Mexico, obeying W » son « gtateg army gayß we
Noo<,y b «‘tles have been fought on that foreign soil. The Judge advocn ® ” e nation on earth.
So far from keeping «s out of war Wilson has kept us on bad /,ast war that
wtat of the future? In Cincinnati, last Thursday. Wilson himself declared. This Is
United States can keep out of. The business of neutrality Is over.
IS THE FUTURE SAFE UNDER THE GUIDANCE OF SUCH A WEATHER CO
faith and sound Jn* l *'’ 1 ®" 1 ' v t0 you _
\/HTF
# I I I people of the S th« return of the
V Jl JCi STa'n partyto £wer in national at.
MILES POINDEXTER
I that ail my friends in
_ the State will work for the election
republican party The State will be
•lean president y L JONKB .
I urge my friend* everywhere to support
¥ ¥¥ ¥ P 1 h“S
|J! T| U H fte safesimrdlns of our
P mm I ¥ V I I I JS M the development of ou . an(J thi , ~a n
JL though therest’oratlon to power
of the republl E can ß party. BßioE
I Tm L. \K l|i| $ I f J \w w# 1 mJi aX /A\>' I ~ ~ I
delivered at the warehouse and pack
dpmeuVHarry J - Ro « ers
doing the packing. Mr. Rogers is the
packer who is accredited with being
so perfect in the selection of his fruit
and boxing the same that the official
inspector does not consider It neces
sary to inspect any boxes passing
through his hands. All that is neces
sary to say is that Rogers packed those
boxes, and the boxes go. Talk about
Rie automatic action of machinery,
why Mr. Rogers Is n human machine
working automatically. He uses both
hands, one to select the apple the other
to snatch off the wrapper and pass the
wrapped apple Into Its proper box.
laid in rows with mathematical nicety.
There are no false motions, for false
motions would be a clog to speed. The
handling of the individual apple Is
done In the twinkling of an eye, If not
quicker. And when it is considered that
100 boxes a day is the usual stunt It
can be understood that Mr. Rogers is
not wasting any time while on the Job.
A daughter was born to gladden the
household of Mr. and Mrs. Jas, McKin
ley last Friday night, and a smile of
[satisfaction splits Jimmie’s face from
ear to ear. Mother and youngster doing
nicely.
Miss Goldie Mitchell lift Tuesday
morning for Okanogan where she has
accepted a position in the mercantile
establishment of Chas. E. Blackwell
& Co. Miss Mitchell Is still a receptive
candidate for Princess Okanogan from
Oroville.
Fred Gadbury was in Oroville Tues
day, having driven over from Seattle
In his car. Mr. Gadbury formerly re
sided in Riverside and for several
months a resident of Seattle, will
make his headquarters at Loomis for
the winter.
Much of the cattle purchased in this
locality during the past few weeks is
held up on pasturage. Jas, Jackson, the
pioneer local buyer estimates that
there are upwards of 1000 head held
in the Aunty, to eventually go to the
Seattle market.
L. F. Pourtales and HI Butler
struck out for the upper reaches of
Slnlahekln creek Tuesday morning on
a deer hunt, expecting to be gone for
three or (our days. The success of the
Frank party has created an excitement
among local sportsmen.
In an item under the head of “Look-
ing Backward," published two wmlib
ago, F. H. Mason was mentioned, and
this paper stated that his wherabouts
at present were unknown. Jas. E.
i “ forms us Mr. Mason is
now in business at Chewelah.
th G6 n ® artell 18 t0 Blve a dance in
the Orpheum election night. The idea
is a good one. There will be a large
crowd wasting the night, anyhow,
waiting for election returns, and the
chance to kill time tripping the light
fantastic between bulletins will be ap
preciated. Then the returns will be
read from the stage at the hall, so
there will be no Intermission between
shaking a foot and howling satisfac
tion over the returns as they come In
It will give those on the side of the
winning candidate greater zest In the
pleasures of the evening, while the los
ers can forget their chagrin by a more
vigorous Indulgence In the dizzy.
A number of the farmers of the hill
country to the west of town contracted
their wheat early in the fall for $1.05
at Tonasket. The amount of wheat so
contracted runs up to several thous
ands of bushels. It Is galling for these
parties to haul their grain to a market
where their neighbors are receiving
$1.42 or more, for the same kind of
grain, and It la certainly a neat pick up
for the buyers who pocket the differ
ence between $1.05 and the present
price of wheat. The farmer stands the
j loss, yet, on the other hand had grain
fallen to 75 or SO cents the party of
the second part. If the farmer was so
nominated in the bond, would have
held the buyer to the original contract
and consider that he had made a
mighty lucky turn.
The party of hunters consisting of
W. .1. Frank, his son, Revie Frank, Bob
Prentice, Chas. Loudon and a fifth
party pleasantly designated as the
“Swede," returned home Sunday loaded
down with venison. Mr. Loudon did not
bunt as he had already killed bis deer
for the season, but each of the balance
of the crowd secured a buck. The hun
ters went up on Suscepkln creek, a
small branch of the Slnlahekln coming
down out of the mountains west of
Loomis. The hunters saw a number of
deer, and two were killed the very first
day out. The only one of the party to
meet with an accident was the senior
Frank, which was more laughable than
serious. He was showing the boys how
logs were moved In Wisconsin when
the pry slipped, Mr. Frank took a
graceful flight through the air and
landed on his back. In the creek. As
the water was very shallow he oxper
ieuced only a partial ducking and es
caped without Injury. The Incident
only added entertainment to a most en
joyable outing. .
OROVILLE, WABHIN VTON. NOVEMBER 3, 1916
DEATH OF CHARLES GERHARD.
nnrtlfJi A; erhard ’ a Pioneer resident of
northern Okanogan county, died at his
!?'°JII? ‘1 Tonasket at noon Tuesday, after
rCl £*
S*r £ Sy
Tnedeath of Mr. Gerhard was not unex'
E'Si.r.tsss's.r tzs ;
ajSToSSK. *-rasss
Of Mr - Gerhard’s antldedents very little
past n Ufe n aml fandly 8 he
’f® In the United States and was ns loyal
to the country of his adoption as any ns
live born citizen of the landFo, the „a“i
Oban™ 8 he made his home In northern
Okanogan county, with the exception ot
brief periods during which he sought em
''‘7'nent In neighboring states. Mr. Gel
awn *° Okanogan countv cltir
ing the early mining excitement and was
among the first prospectors Zd miners ?n
*be Loomis district. He was one of the
most quiet, upright. Industrious men that
ever conducted mining operations in this
£°“ n 'il “ s well a « the most reliable an"
hf« am . on ” all classes. In eurlv days
his faith In the future o the country was
U?e summlt H nf p C ? ,Od a * ro ' ,p of clahns on
tne summit of Palmer mountain and count
nr ,lmt he could raise In deye'lop
tg that property. W hen hts means were
exhausted he would go oat to Montana o?
• Ist-w here work all winter, save his mon
ey and then In the summer return to
Loomis and put his harj earned money in
wi?i. B o 0l i nd ’ } Io , was , ttio Very soul of honor
•i 4 1 °f *°l d ' No man ever ones
tloncd Charlie Gerhard's word. Once giver,
he held that word Inviolate. He worked his
Palmer mountain claims for years, In the
end, realizing little for his years of hi -
a ? t i, ev l ? n 1 - l ,’* s TJ-ttt* wavered. He
d sposed of his holdings and came to Oro.
tllle, where he opened a lunch counter.
When the town of Tonasket was starter.
Mr. Gerhard opened a, restaurant and
lodging house at that place on a very
small scale. Gradually his business In
creased. he put up a larger hotel and a,
last attained a comfortable Income after
the many years of hardship while trying
to dig a fortune out of the earth
For a long time Mr. Gerhard was In
fa ting beam., but his Indomitable spirit
held him to his work. Finally he leased
his hotel and went to Seattle for medical
examination and treatment. His ailment
was diagnosed as cancer of the stomach
This discovery was a great shock to the
snfterer and he fairly gave up the fight
As nothing could be done to prolong life
Mr. Gerhard returned to Tonasket to die
and death followed his return within a
fortnight.
Realizing his eomtltlon Mr. Gerhard ar.
ranged for the disposition of his property
after death, and following the dictates of
the heart that beat so kindly throughout
life for his fellow men. he willed his es
tate to be used for civic betterments and
to the poor.
Thls county has never contained a better
citizen than Charles Gerhard and his loss
leaves a vacancy that can never be filled.
Long will his memory (Ive green among
the multitude of friends whom he has pre.
reeded to the mysterious bevond.
SATURDAY MATINEE THE LYRIC.
Manager Stotts of the Lyric Is generous
hearted fellow and a great friend of the
kiddles, as Is fully shot 31 by his Inaugu
ration of a Fn trrd-jy a'tApncon. * o'clock,
matinee, especially stagen for the scnonl
children and people from the oounSrv
coming Into town to do their Saturday
trading. At three o’clock, promptly, the
house will open on a return of that favor,
ite of the children, Mary Plckford, In an
unusual characterization of "Poor Little
Pepplna,” the story of a little American
girl, kidapped hy Italians and taken to
Italy, where she had to work In the vine
yards, becomes a atoaway disguised as a
boy, a newste, a boot black, a fruit ven
der. an employe of an opium den. a mes.
senger boy, and finally the restored daugh.
ter of a millionaire father. "Poor Little
Pepplna” Is one of the most Intensely In
teresting stories ever published. On this
special occasion children under 12 years
will be admitted for five cents each. The
same play will also be run Saturday and
Sunday nights with Bary’s cartoon.
Wednesday and Thursday Constance
Collier, a celebrated English star, will
occupy the screen In the portrayal of
“The Code of Marcia Gray” an engrossing
drama of modern fashionable life and
frenzied finance.
Much space is given over to political
dope this week, which could be expect
ed on the eve of such an important
election. Readers will overlook the one
refrain as it is not going to happen
again for another four years, and that
is long immunity from brass bands and
red Are.
After spending some six weeks at
Oroville superintending the gathering
and marketing of their apple crop
Messrs. Geo. H. Ellis and Jas. E. Forde
left for their homes at Spokane Friday
in order to be on hand next Tuesday
and aid In putting Washington in the
Hughes column.
The first rain that has fallen here
in three months laid the dust Saturday
night. The rain fall was very light in
the valley and changed to snow on the
surrounding peaks. The slight visita
tion broke up one ot the longest
drouths known in this part of the
county for years,
Indian Farmer H. 3. Hall was in
town from Republic Saturday on busi
ness connected with his office. Mr.
Hall is one of the most popular offi
cials ever connected with the Indian
department ot the Colville reservation,
and always meets with a cordial recep
tion when visiting Oroville.
The minstrel performance that is to
be given under the auspices of the
Civic League next Friday evening is
going to be a hummer. Local talent is
going to take part under the direction
of an experienced stage manager, and
the certainty of a screaming program
will draw a crowded house.
Those who have been selected to
take part In the minstrel entertainment
next Friday evening are practicing
about every evening, and as the per
formence is so near at hand there will
have to be some earnest effort if the
various numbers are to be worth while.
W. Leonard Davis returned home
from Wenatchee Saturday evening,
where he had been under medical
treatment for a fortnight. Mr. Davis is
still in poor health, and under instruc
tions of his physicians will be compell
ed to remain in bed throughout the
winter.
Last week Jas. Jackson purchased
71 hea dof beef cattle from Andy John
son, picking up a few others here and
there to make a heard of 104. While
driving the animals to Tonasket a train
ran Into the bunch immediately In the
town, killing one and disabling two
others.
ELECTION RETURNS.
That man Jackson of the Palm, is suie
some heavy volt wire. He lias arranged to
run a line into the Palm, have a man at
the key on election night and post the re
tums as they come in. The Palm will he t
popular resort Tuesday night as about
everybody will be anxious to know who Is
to warm the presidential chair for the mxt
four years.
EAST OROVILLE ITEMS.
Mrs. l-'annie Montague, of Owasso, Mich
who is visiting her daughter, Mrs. Lew
Miadbolt, was the guest of Mrs J A
spencer and Mrs. Mark Sawtell a part of
last week.
<!eo. Puls was In from his Whisky Hill
ranch this week.
Regular Tuesday night prayer meetings
are held at the home of Rev. J, A. Spen.
cer and a hearty welcome Is extended to
all.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. tl. H. Severance. Dean.)
Services with sermon will be held on
next Sunday morning at 11 a. m. Rev.
Peabody of Okanogan will conduct
this service. All are most cordially invited.
Sunday school Is held every Sunday at
11' o'clock A cordial invitation Is extendeo
to all children to attend our school.
Services will be held everv first and
third Sunday at 11 a. m.
AT HE ORPHEUM.
I'or Saturday and Sunday nights at tie
Orpheum will preesnt the World Film
production The Pawn of Fate,” with
George Heban in the leading role. This
Is a unique and powerful drama with a
most picturesque setting amid the en
chanting atmosphere of studio life In
Paris The audience Is taken from the
rural scenes of Normandy to the gay life
of the great French city and n story ot
love and disappointed ambition is worked
out upon the screen.
The goblins were out In force Tuesday
night celebrating Halloween, and made
Rome howl. No serious depredations were
committed as is too frequently the case
in smaller towns. The party given for the
school children at the Civic League li
brary building was largely attended and
proved a very happy event to all who at
tended.
Serial No. 012520.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at Watervllle, Wash. October 27
1016.
Notice 1s hereby given that Floyd E.
Hixson, of Loomis, Washington, who on
August 4, 1013, made homestead entry
serial No. 012520, for NE'/*BW>4 and
SEUNW L. section 34. township 39 north
range 26 east, Willamette meridian, has
tiled notice of intention to make three
year proof to establish claim to the land
above described, before Geo. J. Hurley,
United States Commissioner, at Loomis,
Washington, on the 6th day of Decembet.
1916.
Claimant names as witnesses; William
Hixson, Henry Saunders, Joseph Rice,
Raymond Hixson, all of Loomis, Wash.
Ington.
BEN SPEAR
Register.
First publication November 3, 1916.
No. 3205
SUMMONS FOR PUBLICATION IN
FORECLOSURE OF TAX LIEN.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, for Okanogan county.
Union Title and Trust Company, a corpo
latlon Fiamtlff.
vs.
Geo. Moore and all persons unknown, If
any, having or claiming to have an In
terest in and to the real property herein
after described. Defendants. Summons tor
publication In foreclosure of tax lien
The State of Washington to Geo. Moore
and all persons unknown If any. having
or claiming to have an Interest In and to
the real property hereinafter described:
You and each ot you are h -reby notified
that Union Title and Trust Company, a
corporation is the holder of cniildcalo of
delinquency numbered 651, issued on the
27th day of June, 1914, by tne county if
Okanogan, State of Washington, for the
amount of fifty one and thlHv-four hun
dredths dollars ($51.31) the same being the
amount then due and delinquent for tuxes
for .he years 1911, 1912, 19H together with
penalty. Interest and costs theieon, upon
real property assessed to you and of which
you are the owner or reputed owner, sit
uated in said county and partlcu ail;
hounded and described as follows, to-wlt
The northeast quarter of the southeast
quarter of section thirty four,
(34); the east half of the southwest quar
ter (EtiSWVi) and the northwest quarter
of the southwest quarter (NWV4SWI4) of
section thirty five (35); In township thirty
six (36) north, range twenty eight (28) E
W. M., and upon which It has pal dtaxes
assessed against said property as follows:
Tax
Year’sTax Date Paid Ree’t. No. Amount
1914 .lime 17. 1916 3147 17.64
1915 July 12, 1916 3936 18.10
Total amount of taxes paid since
date of certificate of delinquency $35.74
all of said amounts bearing Interest at the
rate of fifteen per cent, per annum; and
you are further notified that It will apply
to the Superior Court of the State ot
Washington, In and for said coutny, for a
Judgment foreclosing Its lien against the
property hereinbefore mentioned, and you
me hereby summoned to appear within
sixty days after the date of the first pub
lication of this summons, exclusive of the
day of said first publication and defend
this action or pay the amount due. to
gether with costs; and In case of your fail
ure to do so, Judgment will be rendered
foreclosing the lien for said certificate of
delinquency, taxes, penalty, Interest and
costs, against the lands and premises
hereinbefore mentioned. Date of first pub
lication October 20. 1916.
Any pleading or process may be served
upon the undersigned at the address here
after mentioned.
CHAS . A. JOHNSON.
Plaintiff's Attorney
P. O. Address, Okanogan, county of
Okanogan, Washington.
First publication Oct. 20, 1916, last publi
cation November 21, 1919.
(Serial No. 09425)
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at Watervllle, Washington, October
21. 1910.
Notice Is hereby given that William H.
Hlx, of Orovllle. Washington, who on
December 21. 1910, made homestead en
trv serial No. 09425 for NWI4SW%, SW l i
N\V>4 section 27, and SV4 NE>4 section 28,
township 40 north, range 20 east, Willa
mette meredlan, has filed notice of Inten
tion to make five year proof to establish
claim to the land above decsrlbed, before
Julia Bussert. United States Commissioner
at Orovllle. Washington, on the 29th day
of November, 1916.
Claimant names as witnesses: W. W.
Scott, D. W. Riley, Chas. S. Lewis and
Orren M. Johnson, all of Orovllle. Wash
ington.
REN SPEAR. Register.
First publication October 27, 1916.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Serial No. 07658.
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at Watervllle, Washington, October
21, 1916.
Notice Is hereby given that Orville Hlx,
of Orovllle. Washington, who on March 10,
910 made homestead entry serial No. 07658
for NWI4NWU Sec. 34. SWliSWli Sec. 27
and Et4SEU section 28, township 40 N.,
range 26 east, Willamette meridian, has
filed notice of Intention to make five year
proof to establish claim to the land above
described, before Julia Bussert, United
States Commissioner, at Orovllle, Wash
ington. on the 29th day of November. 1916.
Claimant names as itnesses: W. W.
Scott, Otis Teel, Chas. S. Lewis and Or
ren M. Johnson, all of Orovllle, Wash.
BEN SPEAR, Register.
First publication October 27, 1916.
FUN AHEAD
The people of Oroville have a rare treat
in the way of a local entertainment ahead
of them lor next Friday evening. At the
Orpheum on that date a minstrel show
the performers being made up of loca
talent, will be staged in the Orpheum
under the auspices of the Civic League,
and If an attractive program is a pulling
card the building should be crowded to
capacity on that occasion. The show to
be given takes on the nature ot the old
burnt cork minstrel performance, and all
those who have ever held their sides
laughing over the Jibes and Jokes of the
end men and the ludicorous stunts follow,
lug the grand opening can appreciate the
fun ahead.
That popular banker A. P. Murray, will
act as interlocutor, and the comedy will
be furnished by six end men, Messrs.
Lewis, Dallam, Hill, McMahan, Chris
topher and liagby. The Uroville orchestra
will accompany the chorus and soloists,
with Mrs. Ashby at the piano. Mrs. Lewis,
Mrs. Powell, Miss Graves and Messrs.
Sturrett, Dallam and Christopher are
among the soloists. R. Sunders liagby, ot
Chicago, who has had wide experience in
theatrical and vaudeville work, and comes
highly recommended as a producing mana.
ger. will have charge of the production
and promises several novel features, In.
traducing the latest song hits, monologues.
Jokes and modern dances. Mr. liagby
comes here from Colville where he put on
a similar shoyv. and according to the news
papers of that city the performance was
one of the best ever given In Colville b\
home people.
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THATi
County Commissioner Miller was In town
for a short time one day this week and
while here made the statement THAT IF
ELECTED THIS END OF THE COUNTY
MIGHT EXPECT NOTHING FROM HIM.
This Is a strange threat to make by a man
who is supposed under his oath of office
to treat all parts of the county fairly and
Justly and It certainly will not have the
effect of Increasing Mr. Miller’s vote in
the north end of the county. And a man
who would use public office to reek his
personal spite 1s hardly worthy of the sup
port of any fair minded voter no matter
In what part of the county he might live.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of the regular meeting of :ho
town council of Oroville, Washington, boh 1 .
October 30, 1016.
Present Mayor Samson, Councilman
Beale. Smith, Frlla and Slarrett.
Minutes of the previous meting read and
approved as read. The matter of changing
certain culverts In the improvement dts.
trlct was discussed and the street com.
inissioner was Instructed to change the
culvert running east and west at the cor
ner of First and Vancouver streets, plac
ing It so as to run north and south at the
corner of Main and Central avenues.
On motion the council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSF, Clerk.
CALL FOR BIDS.
Notice Is hereby given that the board
of trustees School District No. 62 of Oka
nogan county, Washington, hereby call lor
bids for the construction of a school house
for said district. Material and workman
ship to be first class. Plans may be seen at
the home of the District Clerk. Board re
serves the right to reject any or all bids.
Bids will be opened November 11, 1816.
J. & HENDERSON,
Clerk 8. D. No. I.
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington In and for the county of Oka
nogan.
In the matter of the estate of Ed! tT
Knight, deceased. Order to Show Cause
No. 679.
Union Title and Trust Company, ad
ministrator of the estate of Ed. R. Knight
deceased, having tiled In said court Its
final account and petition for distribution,
setting forth that said estate is now In
condition to be closed, and Is ready for
distribution of the residue thereof to the
persons entitled thereto.
Now, therefore. It Is ordered that all
persons Interested In the estate of Ed. R.
Knight, deceased, be and appear before
the said superior court of Okanogan coun
ty, slate of Washington, at the court
room of said court at Okanogan, Wash.
Ington, on the 4lh day of December. 1916,
at the hour of ID o'clock a. m. of said day
then and there to show cause, if any they
hat e, why said account shall not be set.
tied and allowed and a decree of distribu
tion of said estate made, according to law.
It is further ordered that notice of said
hearing be given by posting a .copy of
this order In each of three t3j of the most
public places in said Okanogan county
and by publication of the same once a
week for four consecutive weeks before
?? lcl i. 4 . th ,-, dtty ot December, 1916, In the
Oroville Gazette, a weekly newspaper of
general circulation, published in said
county.
Ocdheor, 1 19 1 °6 Pon C ° Urt thlfl 26th day of
E. K. PEN DERG AST,
First publication November 3. 1916. Jud(fe '
DELINQUENT’sALETjorTcE]
East Oroville Orchards Company, a cor
poration. location principal place of busl
“«**■ First National Bank building, Oro
ville, Washington.
, NOTICE—There Is delinquent upon the
following described stock, on account of
an assessment levied on the 22nd day of
March, 1916, the amount set opposite the
names of the respective stockholders fol
lowing:
v.^ e i,* Company, a corporation.
No. Certificate, 10; No. Shares, 60; Ain’t!
$1260.00, Methow Cattle Companv, a corpo
ration. No. Certificate 11; No. Shares, 60;
Am t. $1250.00. And, In accordance with
the law and the by-laws of the East Oro
ville Orchards Company, a corporation
and in accordance with the resolutions of
the board of trustees of said corporation,
made on the 22nd day of March, 1916 so
many shares of stock above described is
may bo necessary, will be sold at public
auction at the Town Hall In Oroville,
Washington, on the 21st day of Novembei
1916, at the hour of 2 o'clock p. m., ot
said day to pay said delinquent assess
ment thereon, together with the costs of
advertising and expenses ot sale.
S. B. STARRETT. Jr.
Secretary of the East Oroville Orchards
Company, a corporation.
Serial No. 011799.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Department of the Interior. U. S. Land
Office. Watervllle, Washington, October 3,
1916.
Notice Is hereby :';m that Ida May
Easum of Colfax, Washington, who on
November 29. 1912 made desert land an
tes serial No. 011799, for Lot i, Sec 13. T.
40 N„ R. 27 E. and Lots I. 2, 3. Sec. 18,
Township 40 North, Range 28 East. Willa
mette meridian, has tiled notice of inten
tion to make final proof, to establish claim
to the land above described, before Julia
Bussert, U. S. Commissioner, at Oroville,
Washington, on the 14th day ot Novem
ber, 1916.
Claimant names as witnesses: W. E.
Deegan, Ignatius Kaisle, .ludson Murray
and Edmund Hall, all of Oroville, Wash.
BEN SPEAR, Register.
First publication October 13. 1916.
Serial No. 010990
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at Watervllle, Wash. SepL 29, 1916.
Notice Is hereby given that Heman H.
Granger, of Oroville, Washington, who on
March 27, 1912, made Desert Land Entry
Serial No. 010990. for NB%NW NW 4
NE%, Sec. 33, and SDi, SW«
Section 28, Township 39 North Range
27 E., W. M. has filed notice of In
tention to make final proof to establish
claim to the land above described, before
Julia Bussert, U. S. Commissioner, at
Oroville, Washington, on the 16th day of
November, 1916.
Claimant names as witnesses; E. Rlste.
Elmer Stansbury, A. O. Spencer, and Ray
Frohnhapher, all of Orovllie, Washington.
BEN SPEAR, Register.
First publication October 13. 1916.
«I.U PER TEAR
SLIGHT FIRE.
LI Fire was discovered about six o'c'ocit on
1 Thursday morning In one of the small
> buildings of Uie row of frame structures
on me west side of First street, on the
soutli side of tne track, and immediately
adjoining Frank Barlell s large mercantile
, establisnment. Very fortunately tne boss
, bouse Is only a few feel Horn me scene of
> me lire and A. S. I'ratt, ins sun Tnuimau
> and a neighbor gut a line of nose laid ana
i a stream on me lire in a very tew minutes,
soon extinguishing Hie incipient blaze. 'J be
cause of tbe fire is unknown, as the room
i is used for tne storage of sucked grain
and tbere bad heeiuuu lire about tbe prem
ises. Had tbe tire broken out in tbe mid.
die of me nigbt tbe entire business pait
of tbe town on tbe soutn s'ds Would lime
been destroyed. Tbe building anl stored
grain is owned by E. Truix. Tne damage
to the building is but slight. There wi.l
be some loss on tbe gru u, nut H is un-lei -
tiroo the grain was Insured.
PRINCESS OKANOGAN.
So far tbe residents of Orovllle ana
vicinity have taken no interest in tile se.
lection of a princess to repiesent mis place
at Hie Spokane National Apple snow. Tne
ballot is publisbeU In anulncr pan of tbe
paper. All one has to do Is to write In me
names of bis choice tor princess and
send tbe baliol In to this office, ft uu>
effort is to be made to elect a princess,
subscribers must get busy at once. Tuero
are only two weeks in which to do the
voting.
Serial No. duets.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION ISOLATE!!
TRACT.
Public laud sale. Department of tbe In
terior. U. S. Land unite at VVatervlUe,
•September 36, laid.
Notice is hereby given (hat, as directed
by me Commissioner of tbo cenemi x.anu
office under provisions of Section 3456, it.
S. pursuant to me application of Henry
Drown, Serial No. oilers, we will ofier at
public sale, to tbe highest bidder but at
not less man tit.oo per acre, at 10 o’clock
A. At., on me mh nay ot November, laio.
next, at this office, me following tract of
land: Wft SEfc, Section so, no
sec. 31, T. 30 N. K. 37 HI., W. M.
"Tins tract Is ordered into me market
on a showing mat me greater portion
mereof Is mountainous or too rougn for
cultivation.”
Tne sale will not be kept open, but will
be declared closed wlien moss present at
the hour named nave ceased bidding. mo
person making Uie Highest bid will ue re
quired to immediately pay to the Ueceivei
me amount thereof.
Any persons claiming adversely tbo
above described land are advised to bio
,ii claims, or objections, on or before
the time designated for sale.
BEN SI’EAR, Keglstai,
S. S. SLUGS, Hoceiveu.
First publication, Uctobsr 13, llllti.
NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT.
In tbe Superior Court of tbe State of
vVashlngton, in and for Okanogan county.
In probate. -
In the matter of the estate of William
L. Davis, deceased. Notice of settlement
of account .
Notice Is hereby given that Leroy L.
Work, Uie administrator of tne estate of
William L. Davis deceased, nas rendered
and presented for settlement to. and meu
I. me Superior Court of said County and
State hla tlnal account as such admlms.
trator and mat Monday the 37 th day ot
Novapebar, m 3, at lu;eo o clock A. M. at
tbe court room ot our said Superior Couit
in the town of Okanogan, In said county,
lias been duly appointed by our said Su
perior Court tor uie settlement of tne final
account, at wnlch time and place any per
son Interested In said estate may appear
and tile his exceptions In writing to tne
said final account, and contest me same.
Witness the Hon. E. K. f'endergaat,
Judge of the said superior court, anu Un
seal of said court amxed this Hit day of
October, 11)16.
MARY E. MCCLURE,
County Clerk and Clerk at Said Super,
lor Court.
NEAL & NEAL Attorneys for Estate.
First publication November 3, 1916,
No. 3207.
SUMMONS FOR PUBLICATION IN
FORECLOSURE OF TAX LIEN.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, tor Okanogan county.
Union Title and Trust Company, a Cor
poration, plaintiff,
vs.
M. R. Bowman, and all persons unknown,
if any, having or claiming to have an in
terest in and to the real property herein
after described, defendants. Summons tor
publication in Foreclosure of Tax Lien.
The State of Washington to M. U. Bow
man, and all persons unknown, if any,
having or claiming to have an interest in
and to the real property hereinafter des
cribed:
You and each of you are hereby notified
that Union Title and Trust Company, a
corporation. Is the holder of Certificate of
Delinquency numbered 477, issued on the
24th day of February, 1213. by the county
of ukanogan. Slate of Washington, for the
amount of Nineteen and ten one hun
dred dollars, ($19.10> the same being the
amount then due and delinquent for taxes
for the year lain) together with penalty,
Interest and costs thereon, upon real prop
erty assessed to you and of which you are
the owner or reputed owner, situated In
said county, and particularly bounded ana
described us follows, to-wit • The south
east quarter of the northeast quarter
(SEI4NEVB); the southwest quarter of the
northeast quarter (SWI4NEi4J; the south
east quarter of the northwest quarter
(BEI4NW&) the southwest quarter of the
northwest quarter fSW'ANWiaJ of section
thirty two t32> township thirty eight 138J
range thirty one 131 j. and upon which It
has paid taxes assessed against said prop
erty as follows;
Tax
Year's Tax Date Paid Ree l. No. Amt.
1210 February 24, 1213 4341 26.13
1211 February 24, 1213 3354 23.81
1213 June..,. 17, 1214 2562 16.40
1914 June 17 1915 3146 15.63
1216 July 12, 1216 3238 16.3e
Total amount of taxes pa'd sines
date of certificate of delinquency 398.26
all of said amounts bearing Inteiest at filt
rate of fifteen per cent, per annum; and
you are further notified that it will apply
to the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, In and for said county, for a
judgment foreclosing Its lien against the
property hereinbefore mentioned, and you
are hereby summoned to appear within
sixty days after the date of the first pub
lication of tills summons, exclusive of the
day of said first publication, and defend
this action or pay the amount due. to
gether with costs; and In case of your
failure to do so Judgment will be rendered
foreclosing the lien for said certificate of
delinquency, taxes, penalty, Interest and
coats against the lands and premises here
inbefore mentioned. Date of first publica
tion October 20, 1916.
Any pleading or process may be served
upon the undersigned at the address here
aftei mentioned.
CHAS. A. JOHNSON,
Plaintiff's Attorney.
P. O. Address. Okanogan, County of Oka
nogan. Washington.
First publication Oct. 20, 1916, last pub
lication November 24, 1918.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS,
In the superior court of the State of
Washington, for Okanogan county. In pro
bate. Notice to creditors to file claims.
In the matter of the estate of E. C.
Willard, deceased.
Notice Is hereby given that letters ad
ministrator on the estate of E. C. Willard
deceased, were granted to the undersigned
on the 29th day of August 1916 by the said
Superior Court.
All persons having claims against said
estate, are required to present them with
the necessary vouchers to me at Forde A
Ford's store at Loomis, Washington,
within one vear after date of this notice
or they shall be forever barred.
Dated at Loomis, Wash., this ilh day
ol October 1916.
WM. J. FORD, Administrator.
