V
DONIPHAN, MISSOURI, tf&IDlY. NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
NUMI-.KM-i.
Volume XIX.
10
WOODROW WILSON
President of the United States
"HE HAS KEPT US
This U the face of ' a man strong, coura
geous, patient and kindly, a man
Always alert to the aspirations of his fellow
man and sympathetic toward their fulfillment;
Never complacent toward the encroachments
of privilege nor tolerant of social wrong;
Always seeking to enhance the dignity of
labor and better the state of the toiler;
Never lending an ear to the sophistry of ex
ploitation or the blandishments of expediency;
Alwayt patient . to hear and weigh, to ap
praise and analyze, and passionate to find the
way of right; -
Never premature in purpose nor prejudiced
in judgment, and never headlong in decision
Such U WOODROW WILSON.
WHAT THE PRESIDENT ACTUALLY
DID TO AVERT STRIKE DISASTER
Befwa f consulted with tbaa (the railroad executives and repre
aentativee of the employees) I mad myself acquainted with tht
potata at controversy.
The first thing I told both aide waa that t atood for the eight
hour day. We believe In the eight boor day because a man does
better work within eight bourn than he doe In a more extended day
I said to the railroad executives: "Ton are asking that the result of
the eight hour day be predicted, and the prediction be arbitrated. The
reasonable thing to do is to grant the eight hour day, not because
the men demand It, but because it Is right, and let me get authority
from Congress-to appoint a commission to observe the results and
report, la order that Justice may be don the railroads In respect of
tb coat of tha experiment" : ':
V That waa the proposal which they rejected and which Congress
put Into law, a proposal which I made to them before I conferred
with it. which I urged npon them at every conference and which,
when the one side rejected and the other accepted, I went to Con
gress and asked Congress to enact I did not ask either tide
whether it suited them, ud I requested my friends in Congress
Kot to ask either lids whether it suited them. ' I learned before '
tha controversy began that the whole temper of the legislative
body was in faror of the eight hour day. ; .- '
In the House of Representatives the plan waa passed, waa sanc
tioned by a vote which Included seventy Republicans as against
Ofty-four Republicans. In the Benate the Republican members held
a conference In which they determined to put no obstacle in the way
of the passage1 of the bill. Now this waa because the proposal was
reasonable and waa based upon right Vom President Wilmn'i Speech
(a fas Jttien Business If rs si Shadow Laum, Lung Srtneh, Jf. JBeit. fcJ. ,
OUT OF WAR"
PRESIDENT PLEDGES -GREATER
PROGRESS
Laws Must Fit New Life, He Tells
the American People.
HIS RECORD OF DEEDS DONE.
Amertoea Rights Upheld With Honor,
Farmers Qraatly Benefited, Buslnsss
Unshackled, Labor Protected, Chil
dren Ssf Free Vetee of Women
Needed World Peece Desired.
Bhadow Lawn, N. J., Oct 28,-To the
American people Woodrow Wilson to
day gave an accounting of his admin
istration as their President. He "bal.
anced his books" so that the record
atands clear. Promises fulfilled, great
deeds done I That, In short tells the
story. Aad yet the story la aot fin
ished. Other chapters In the great
Book of Human Progress remain to be
written. It rests with you, American
Toters, to say whether the man who
began the book shall finish It
Here, In the President's own words.
Is a plain statement of what he, as
leader not only of the Democratic
party but of the nation, has accom
plished la your behalf and of what he
plans for your future a statement
made not alone to the thousands who
Journeyed here but to you and the
hundreds of thousands throughout the
country who also celebrated "Wilson
Day."
The Prssldsnt'a 8 pooch.
"My Fellow-cltlsensi
"This la called 'Wilson Day only be
cause for six years, first as Governor
Of New Jersey and than aa President
of the United States, 1 have been per
mitted to lead first a. great state and
then a great national party along the
' ways of progress and of enlarged and
; regenerated life which our people had
no long sought and so long been held
back from by the organised power of
Minsk Interest, and because the great
-honor has fallen to me of being chosen
once mora 'spokesmen and representa
tive of the men who mean to hold the
country to these waye of peace, hu
manity and progress. It Is of these
forces that I shall speak and not of
myself, who am merely their servant.
"What are these forces 7 Whence do
they spring? What have they accom
plished, and what is, their programme
and purpose for the future? It Is plain
what they are. Tbey are the forces
of humane, righteous, and patriotic
pnrpose which hsve sprung up in our
day In the ntnds of those who per
ceive the shortcomings of the law aa
ft has hardened In America and who
look forward with purpose and convic
tion to a new age In which govern
ment shall be Indeed the servant of lib
erty and not of privilege.
"These are men who perceive that
American law has not kept pace with
American sentiment; that our law has
been holding us rigid and Immovable,
until class has beguu, in free America,
to be arrayed against class; until what
was legal has begun to play a more
Important part In our thoughts and de
terminations than what la human and
right; and nntil America has begun to
lag instead of lead In reconciling what
la with what ought to be.
I Dawn ef a New Age.
I "A new age bad dawned ''upon oe
while those who were attempting to
lead na were stumbling slong with
their heads over their shoulders, Intent
upon preserving the conditions of a
day that Is gone. America has changed
and the whole world has changed. Our
commerce and Industry had grown to
aach a bulk that the domestic markets
of which our former leaders were al- .
ways so solicitous were glutted and .
we were bound, unless we were to '
burst onr Jacket to find a free outlet
into the markets of the world. The ,'
time had come when our commerce
needed freedom and would be throt
tled by further restraints.
"We bad acquired fore'gn "posses- -slons,
had been drawn Into the politics
of the world, had begun to play a part
which could not be played by provln-
' ctots bnt must be played by citizens of
the great world of nations. And yet we
had not altered onr policy or our point
of view. The great European war has -
- served at least to show ns this one
thing, that the world Itself had chanr''
ed: that It had become at once too big
a world and too little a world to sal
mlt Its destinies to tbe hostile rivalries
and "ambitious now of this and again
of that member of the great family of
- men; too compact too Ultimata in Its
contacts, too universal In Its ways of
Intercourse, to make It any longer pos-
nger poe
nation's
alble to limit the effects of any cation's
action to a single separate sphere
tbe rest would be untouched.
; : "An Inevitable partnership
: Mts baa been thrust upon the
' They are neighbors and must accom
modate their Interests to one another,
or eke disturb the lives and embsr-
. rasa tha fortunes of men everywhere.:
No wonder tbnt In such an age -men
. America should be cried awake and
feel once more, as they felt tbem
, tha dnnaJLOLttigir cceut mublis eh
aeT IjT. toe co: '.pulsions of humanity
and o Justice!
.' Squaring Caws With Life. ' '
"These are 'he freshening winds
Mowing ont of tbe life of mankind ev
erywhere, that nave brought on a new
day in American politics.
"We have looked onoe more very erlt
tealty at sue own laws and eur own
( artoticoe and have sot about to square
'; them with the aotual oondltlons of our
lire ana tne lite, of tne worm.
"Poor swore ago there were two par
ties 1a field whose programme was
conceived under, tbe Influence of these
great forces of progress and adjust
ment the Democratic party and the
Progressive party. This year there la
but one, the Democratic party. In the
presidential election of four years sgo
some fifteen million votes were cast.
"Of these, nearly ten and a half mil
lions were cast for the candidates of
the two progressive parties, only three
and a half millions for the candidate
of tha Republican party, the party
which .lingered In the old ways and
felt none of the new Impulse of a new
day., afore than two-thirds of the vot
ers' of the United States favored then,
and favor now, a programme whose-. .i
Ject la to serve the changing needs of
humanity and progress.
"The Democratic party was entrust
ed with the task. These powerful
forces of the new age were put under
Its direction. - And under that direction
what have they accomplished?
'They have put both the business
and lite, life, of the country upon a
new footing.
- f " Financial Credit Rolsaood.
"They have released tha financial
credit-npon which commerce and pro
duction alike depend, from the control
of small groups of financiers and bank
ers at the speculative centers.
"They have released the commerce
and Industry of the country from the
domination of those who were building
up tbelr power by selfish and unfair
.rppife;. those who'
wished to conduct their' business In
conformity with the spirit of the laws
with friendly guidance and delivered
them from a nervous fenr of the courts.
, 'They have released our foreign
. trade ffum the shackles of a tariff con
trived Hi the interest of special groups
of favored producers, and have crciite!l
a Tariff Commission. Intended to sub-1
stitute public for private Influences, j
facts for theories and pretensions. In
all future legislation altu renmd to ,
duties and restrictions on imports,
"They have made provision for the
immediate and systematic development
of our carrying trade on the seas.
tha
"Thev hitV at last auunlled
means by which the nation may lie
bound together, materially and spirit-
nally, by a network of good roads
npon whh h both commodities and
ympsthles may move freely from com -
munlty to community.
"They have put the farmer upon a
footina of ncrfect emialltv with busl-
nes men and men of all other callings
In respect to his accesa to commercial
credit; have placed a great bureau, of
the Government at his service In seek
ing and finding his best markets: hive
protected him by the etahllahinent of
definite standards In the sale of his
products, and have put the scientific
knowledge of the world at his ri1pwil
by practical demonstration st the ei
pense of the Government upon the
farms themselves.
Have Emancipated Labor,
"They hava emancipated the labor
ers of tbe country from the on lust tried
restraints which the courts bad put
upon them by mistaken applications of
old law to new circumstances and con
ditions. C" : - .
" v'" - ", 't.iv -is!!j ! S
"T -, lIV WrjfrrL U
"Tliey have released tha children of
the country in law part from hurtful
labor; have sought to aareguard the
lives and tbe health of our laborers In
dangerous occupations; and have put
agencies of the Government Itself at
the service of those who seek employ
meut. And most of these things have
been done wltbln the brief limits of
single administration.
"And still the great work is not finish
ed. It can never be rounded off end con
eluded so long as clrcumstmKcscbniigc
and the fortunes and relnttons of n:e;t
shift and alter. The question you have
to decide one week from next Tuesday
Is whether it shall be prematurely In
terrupted, perhas for n generation t
conio, and all the generous forces of
tbe age and of the world thrown back
npon themselves In discouragement aud
confusion.
"The programme remaining is as groat
as the programme accomplished. Th
procedure of our courts is sntiqua'.stl
and a hindrance, not an aid, In the Juul
administration of the law. We .must
simplify and reform it as other en
lightened nations have done, and mnkc
courts of Justice out of our courts
law. We rormt seclt imd lin-4 t':c means
of brlmdng capital and labor to a cloar
understanding of their common inter
ests, which are no other than tbe In
terests of the nation Itself as a com
munity. We must re'em;e our great
undeveloped natural resources upon
some sensible plen of two and conser
vation. ,
Need Votoo ef Women.
"Ws muat roomit the votos of for-ward-looking
men by tha vovos of wo
men so that ws may have a fresh in.
sight In all mattara of social rsform
and move more certainly and mors
promptly in the solution of the manyj
now problems of sooloty with which lh
low mutt henceforth daal. We must
unite the Americas, North and South,
In a new sympathy and co-operntlon.
We muat seek Justice and the right
through every cbannol that offers: and ,
- ' - V
in all its wealth, alike of physical pow
er and spiritual enthuMlasm, at the
service of the other notiona of the
world when peace comes on the other
side of tbe seas, to make that peace
permanent by establishing It on the
everlasting foundations of ribt, co
operation, equality and Justice. These
thing we must do and all else thai
may serve mankind.
"And our motto must be CO-OPERA
TION, the union, not the hostile rival-
ry, of the forces or society within ths
j BtloB no within th f,mllw "tlone.
The Intercuts of mankind ran never
aRHiu ub aurrea vy uuxrcanujn; mr in
terest of no nation or group of nation
c" rer "S"1" er,ea -T "KBre"
lon- Tno ntwts of Jealousy are a
bitter and as dangerous aa the contest
of arms.
! "Tbe worl(l must henceforth seek
j the means of accommodation, not the
mn of arresting quarrels merely,
The nation we love and nerve must be
among the lltat and foremost of tbrsc
that rise to the new idoals with spirit
and well-directed force. Our own re
forms, our own actions In the Interest
of Jiisthc and humanity must be tint
earnest of our spirit and purple in fh"
affairs of the world outxlde our own
borders.
"Bitch Is the prospect, such la the pro '
gramme, my fcllow-clticns, to which
we look forward, to v!il h It Is our s
purpose to move forward with enlbu- j
slasm and Irresistible ardor. We will
not pause In the midst of our tank. We
know that we stand at one of the niont
critical Junctures In the hlntory of the
world, when all bopea bung In tbe bal
ance. "Wo will suffer ns mari! no body ef
SIDETRACKED I
ft
man, through timljity or. fear or jeal
ousy, to delay or hlndsr or embarrass
us. Reaction can have no place of) tol
erance amongst na when all tbe world
waits upon those who plan Justice and
.progress.' ' : :
"I summon yon, not only to sustain,
bnt to swell tbe hosts that have their
faces now set towards the light tfaelr
eyea Hftod to the horizons where. tha
dawn of a new age begins to brighten;
and 1 summon you with couHJence,
with a certain expectation of tfie part
America and her great people are to
play when tbe dawn broadens- Into
day. ;y ,: ' '
CRISIS FOR NATION'S TOILERS.
What tbe laborer didn't see under
the Republican regime waa that High
Tariff does not regulute wages, but
makes It possible for the manufacturer
to so regulate prices that be can con
trol labor. Tbe farmer, with bis char
acteristic self-reliance and naturally In
dependent spirit asked no favors. AH
he wanted Waa an equal chance with
other business men. Wilson saw the
farmers' Interests In a big way.
Tbe Rural Credits Act alone, of mora
than a dozen big things this Demo
cratic Congress did for agriculture,
gave greater direct benefits to tbe
farmers than any legislation euacted
since tbe creation of tbe Department
of Agriculture a generation ago.
There came a time whan the laborer
saw that his labor waa a commodity, a
thing to bs bought and sold, or re
strained or enjoined by the unwarrant
ed Issuance of injunction writs In Fed
eral eourtsi he esw thst he did not have
the right guaranteed to him by out
, constitution of voluntary association
I for his own protection and wslfaret In
I short he esw that he was a wsge-slsvel
He saw that be was up against Cap
italorganized and entrenched behind
tha Powerful Pull of the Political 1
Bosses of tbe Republican High Finance
Gang, and Organzed Capital fought to
prevent the Organisation of Labor!
' What 'dtoV Labor demand? Alerety
this: That labor be made part of the
national councils; that Its patriotism
be conceded; and that Its knowledge of
Its own needs give It paramount voice i
In legislation directly and peculiarly af
fecting Its own rights.
And what has been tbe spirit of this
Democratic Administration? Let Sam
uel Gompers, President of tha Ameri
can Federation of Labor, tell:
"In my experience with United States
Congresses during two score years I
hsve not seen anything like tha One
spirit toward labor, toward the rlghta
and welfare of all the people, pervad
ing all the brunches of the Wilson ad
ministration. This fundamental right
spirit has guided the Wilson admlula
tratlcn to wise and righteous labor leg
islation." ;
Farmers and Laborers of America
biggest of all Big Interests-the crest
of the crisis baa come.
Make no mistake. The Issue ef thle
campaign la aa prain aa the noee en
your face. It lei
Big Inierett$ i. k Blggttt Inuiwtt.
IwoMbU QovtrntMnt e. True Demoo
racy. Bif-Word M. Deeds.
Promise w. AccompMiaiacufs.
f f JTna m. f WUsoa 4
THIS PAYS DIVIDENDS
ThATS Wmv Lovrrr or iw Unto
PACIFIC AND UNCeftWOOD Of
fci ERtt Arts m VV1LS0N
imr our rr mr
P HUGHES
fior
:Kr"i
ICS
via
3
r jfw i
. ,'.,.:inav
op tit- i
