rrn
BARRE - BAI'LY
rm
n
VOL. XX NO. 197.
1JAHHE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, NOVEMUEJi 3, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
HE
FALLING BACK
BEFORE FRENCH,!!
Germans Relinquish Por
tions of Sailly-Saillisel
They Recently Took
ALLIES' ATTEMPTS
ELSEWHERE FAIL
German Official Statement
Tells of the Repulse of
, Seven Russian Charges
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. .8. Portions
of Sailly-Saillisel on the Somme front
which were taken by the Germans were
again lost to the French yesterday, the
war office announced to-day. The at
tempts of the allies to advance east of
Gueudecourt and against the northern
part of St. Pierre Vaast wood resulted
in failure.
Austro-German forces have penetrated
further into Rumania, in the district
southwest of Predeal and southeast of
Rothenturn pass, the statement says
On the Galician front, southeast of Lem-
berg, the Russian troops charged seven
times yesterday in an attempt to recap
ture the positions taken by the Germans.
They suffered exceptionally severe losses,
the war office says, and gained no successes.
considerable proportions has broken out
in the region outhwest of Saloniki.
I Only meagre detulis are at hand, but
these 'show that 600 insurgent, probably
! followers of Venizelos, forced 150 royal
j ist troop to evacuate Katerina, near the
Julf of Saloniki. and retreat upon l.aris-
sa, in TheB6aly, where they are expected
to receive reinforcements. The troops
have received orders from the king to
prevent at all costs the advance of the
revolutionists.
FRENCH LOSE ONTA
RIO BILINGUAL
SCHOOL FIGHT
Privy Council Upholds Ruling That the
French May Be Used Only in Low
er Grades of Roman Catholic
Separate Schools.
Montreal, Xov. 3. The French lan
guage may be used in tne i-ioman am
olic separate schools in Ontario only in
lower grades, the privy council of Eng
land holds, according to a cabled sum
mary of a decision in the case by tho
highest court in the empire received here
yesterday. This settles a warmly con
tested issue over the administrations of
these schools, located in the eastern part
of the province, where of late years the
problem of language hag been added to
that of reluzion by the influx of a
BOMB PLOTS
ARE THWARTED
New York Police Say in the
Arrest of Six Men
in That City
TWO HUSBANDS ONE TOO MANY.
CONFESSION SAID
TO HAVE BEEN MADE
Police Report Two Subway
Stations Were to Have
Been Blown Up
WAITED A DAY FOR
END OF EXPLOSIONS
BEFORE TAKING VAUX
Fort Passed Into Possession of the
French Without Loss to Them and
Verdun Ring of Forts is
Now Re-established.
Paris. Xov. 3. The French occupied
Fort Vaux last evening after waiting
for the cessation of great explosions in
side the fort, the war office reported to
day. The fort, which was evacuated by
the Germans yesterday, passed again
into the possession of the French with
out loss to them.
The Germans gave up the fort, the
statement says, as the result of violent
French bombardment and the gradual)
closing-in of French troops. The re-entrance
of the French into this position
was not contested. The ring of Verdun
forts is now re-established and held firm
by the French.
French population from adjoining coun
ties of Q'""'.
A regulation of the Ontario board of
education providing that French could be
used as a medium of instruction only in
the lower grades and for teaching it only
as a language subject in the upper grades.
wag taken to the courts by the board of
trustees of the Roman Catholic separate
schools, but is now upheld by the privy
council. In the case, however, of the
proposal by the Ontario government to
appoint a commission to replace the
school board of Ottawa, which had re
fused to carry, out regulations of the
board of education, likewise involving
the bi-lingtial question, the privy council
holds that it is beyond the powers of tho
government to do so.
New York, X'ov. 3. Plots to dynamite
two stations on the Interborough Kapid
Transit company's subway system were
thwarted, according to the police, by the
arrest to-day of six men, several of
large I them strikers, cliarged with bringing dy
Burlington Man Says He Thought His
Bride Unmarried.
Burlington, Xov. 3 The case of Gcorg
L. t'ota of this city against Ruby I .a
flame Cota, alias Ruby l.atlame White
now living in Worcester, Mass., was tiled
at the ollice of the clerk of county court
yesterday. 1 he case is a petition to an
mil the marriage of the two.
In tho case the plaintiff claims tha
he was married to the defendant by tho
Rev. C. T. Rckie at Addison on June
10, 1010, and that previous to that time
and at the time she represented herself
to him as being a single woman. The
plaintiff further sets up that on about
Decemfber 1 of the same year he was in
formed that the woman was married to
Rollo W hite of Rich ford on October 12
11M)H, and had not been divorced from
Mr. White, who was living at the time
Mr. Cota married her. Mr. White oh
tained a divorce at the 1012 March term
of Chittenden county court. Cota avers
that he Iibb lived apart from his wife
since the time he was informed that
she had a husband living when he and
she were married.
HELD AN AUTOPSY.
To Determine Cause of Death of Charles
Buger of Weybridge
Middlebury, Xov. 3, An autopsy was
performed upon the body of Charles Bu
namite into the city and with causing iger, aged 75, who was found dead Mon
31 PERSONS KILLED
BY SPEEDING
All Run Over Within the Last Six Weeks
Campaign Started to Reduce
the Peril.
the explosion in Uie 110th street sta
tion on Oct. 24.
A confession, which the detectives say
they obtained from one of the men, sets
forth that the station at oSHh street and
Broadway was to have been blown up
to-day and the city hall station later.
Police Captain Tunney of the bomb
squad said that the evidence uncovered
that the funds to finance tho explosions
came from the union and that other ar
rests will be made.
PARRAL REPORTED CAPTURED.
Villa Forces are Said to Have Taken
Town on Tuesday.
El Paso, Tex., Xov. 3. Parral, in Chi
huahua state, has beeii taken by YilU
troops, according to a message received
yesterday by Americans from Chihuahua
1'itir Tha i-atu.ft ale. xnli-A k.. l'..U
AUTOS IN CHICAGO d States government agents forwarded
to Washington, said the Villa forces took
the city Tuesday.
American mining men who have in
terests in Parrel are concerned over the
late or nine Americana Known to He in i
the city. This anxiety was increased j
last night by the news from Chihuahua
jday morning in the barn of Edward H.
Hoof of W eybndge,
It was at first supposed that Buger
died suddenly of natural causes. Pater,
suspicion of foul play arose and the fu
neral set for Wednesday was postponed
until yesterday, when it was again put
off until this morning.
Doctors M. 11. and S. II. Eddy, R. 11.
H. Prentiss, P. I L.:y, E. H. Martin
of this place, and Dr. B. H. Stone and Dr.
Whitney of the state- laboratory at Hur
lington went to Weybridge and per
formed the autopsy yesterday. The re
sult could not be learned, as the physi
cians and authorities refused to make
any statement.
AVIATOR BOMBARDED
AUSTRIAN PORT
Dropped 17 Bombs on Fortifications and
Warships in Roadstead of San Pietro
in Dalmatian Islands.
Rome, via Paris, Xov. 3. An Italian
dirigible airship on the night of Novem
ber 1, says the official statemerit, dropped
17 bombs on tho fortifications and a
warship in the roadstead of San Pietro
in the Sebelieo bay. The dirigible re
turned without being hit, in spite of the
intense tire from Austrian coast batter
ies.
Chicago, Nov. 3. Thirty-one persons
have been run over and killed in Chicago
by speeding automobiles during the last
six weeks, according to figures made pub
lic yesterday by the coroner's office. The
death of two persons Wednesday, which
brought the total up to this number,
aroused city officials and the heads of
motor clubs to join in a movement to
minimize tho peril in the streets.
AUTO PASSENGER SUES.
Claims Man Who Invit. Her to Ride
Was Negligent Her Leg Broken.
Rutland, Xov, 3. Miss Mary Costello
of Poultney yesterday sued Ifarold B.
Thompson of this city, an automobile
agent, in Rutland county court to re
cover 183.000 on the ground that she suf
fered a "broken leg a sting to the defend
ant's negligent driving. She alleges that
Thompson had invited her and three
SHOT OFF HEAD
WITH A RIFLE
William P. Conger, Aged 60,
Killed Himself in
Burlington
BODY WAS FOUND
BY HIS WIFE
"CLANG" WENT FIRE GONG
Curtis Daniels of Bristol
Also Tried Suicide in Bur
lington and May Die
Burlington, Nov. 3. William P. Con
ger, aged HO years, and a long-time resi-
lent, shot his head off with a Winchester
rifle this morning. He had been despond
ent for some time. This forenoon he
went to his workshop, located some dis
tance from his house, and there his body
was found by his wife later in the fore
noon. tie lett a note to Ins wite. .Mr.
'onger was a taxidermist bv occupation
and was a prominent Pythian.
Curtis Daniels of Bristol took strych
nine this morning in his room in the City
hotel with suicidal intent. He ww taken
U the hospital and may recover.
TALK OF THE TOWN
X(
CERTAIN CREDITORS PREFERRED
$2,000,000 FUND
FOR CAMPAIGN
San Pietro is a town on the island of
Brazza, the largest of the Dalmatian is
lands in the Adriatic sea, about 100 miles
southeast of Triest.
ITALIANS STRUCK HARD.
Captured Four Hills and Advanced a
Mile.
London, Xov. 3. Resuming their
heavy attack on the Trieste front, the
Italians, after a devastating bombard
ment of several days, stormed the Aus
trian defenses Wednesday, captured four
hills and advanced nearly a mile among
the strongly fortified heights on the Car
so plateau.
Fast of Gorizia formidable positions
on high ground along a two-mile line
were taken. Xearly 5000 prisoners, six
heavy cannon, many machine guns and
other material fell into Italian hands
during the first day of fighting. The to
tal front covered by this offensive it
about four miles.
1,327 SHIPS SUNK
DURING THE WAR
Of That Total Entente Allies Have Lost
75 Per Cent, Neutrals 18 Per Cent
and Teutonic Allies 7 Per
Cent.
Xew York, Xov. 3. One thousand,
eight hundred and twenty ships with an
aggregate gross tonnage of approximate
ly 3,.'t2S,584 have been sunk by belliger
ent nations during the 27 months of the
war ending Xov. 1, according to the fig
ures compiled from cable despatches and
mail advices and published to-day by the
.Iciurnal of Commerce.
During October it was larger than for
any one of the five preceding months and
considerably in excess of the monthly
average throughout the war period. Dur
ing October Norway lost 56 and Great
Britain 3S out of a total of 127.
A table showing the total shipping
losses since the war began estimates
those of the entente allies at 75 per cent,
neutrals IH per cent and the Teutonic
losses less than 7 per cent.
Treasurer Bliss of Republican Committee
Files Additional Statement Heaviest
Contributors Were H. C. Frick
and Payne Whitney.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 3. Cornelius
N. Bliss, treasurer of the Republican na
tional committee, tiled a supplemental
statement of campaign contributions to
day, showing receipts of $344,778 and
disbursements of $307,635. It showed
over 5,000 contributors. It. C. Frick and
Payne Whitney heading the list with
$25,000 each.
The contributions filed to-day are in
addition to those of $1,067,757 accounted
for in the statement filed on Oct. 28,
making a total of more than $2,000,000.
Supplemental contributions to the
Democratic national campaign, amount
ing to $304,446.50 since Oct. 25, were filed
to-dny by Treasurer Marsh of the Demo
cratic committee. The largest individual
contributors were Cleveland H. Dodge,
$29,000, and Edward L. Doheney, $25,000.
This makes the total of the Democratic
fund $1,310,720. The accounts to date
show total expenditures of over $1,800,
000 by the Republicans and more than
$1,100000 by the Democrats.
HIS JOURNEY INTERRUPTED
But Victor Carlstrom Made Flight from
Chicago to New York.
Xew York, X'ov. 3. Victor Carlstrom,
who left Chicago yesterday for Xew York
in a New Y'ork Times mail-carrying air
plane, descended on Governor's island to
day, ending his flight at 8:55. His jour
ney was interrupted by stops yesterday
at Erie, Pa., and Hammondsport, N. Y.
Carlstrom carried a letter from Mayor
Thompson of Chicago to I'resident Wil
son and a special messenger left imme
diately for Long Branch to deliver it. He
also carried a mail bag which was turned
over to postoffice representatives.
City that the bandits who held tip the ''"1'''" to ride from this city to
.Mexican Central passenger train Monday I '""""'y September 20 and that be-
evenimr at Lamina station, assaulted Dr. IorB. l,w naa ,pn" l"r eny n nrove n,
Stolon hufTnnr a I nrm.n ..k..t 1..,. " " ' "r " n :.-. mantlet mat
thev thnnffht'h. w an a ,.,';,' ' ' t Mt the highway and plunged into an
Minins men here who are familar with oM rer- Thompson is a married man.
the ennntrv m.-r iWr.i ,wiu,-,i d,.t " entire party had been at the Bard
Villa probably moved on Parral from wel1 rathskeller just before the accident
Santa Rosalia, following the Conchas
river to Pilar de Concha, 45 miles from
Santa Rosalia, and then marched south
forty-live miles against Parral, entering
the town from the north. They said
that the report of Villa's capture of the
town verified another report that Villa
and his command had been in posses
sion of Santa Rosalia as it was an
nounced that he would move on Parral
from Santa Rosalia.
Villa is said to bear a grudge against
General Luis Herrera, the Carranza com
mander in Parral and to have declared
tnat when He captured t'arral he in
tended to kill Herrera with his own
hands.
FIVE GUILTY IN ARSON CASE.
Three Set Fire and Two Others Were Ac
cessories. Boston, X'ov. 3. Five convictions were
reported yesterday by a jury which has
been hearing some of the cases develop
ing out of the arson trust investigation.
Jacob Leventhai, Israel I.venthal and
Jacob Suialley, were, found guilty of
burning a building in the Roxbury dis
trict to obtain insurance money and
Samuel Lishner and Simon Levino were
declared to lie accessories before the fact
as instigators of the crime.
Is Allegation Made in Case of Star Waist
Co. of Richford.
Rutland, Xov. 3. An involutary peti
tion in bankruptcy was filed yesterday
against tjie Star Waist company of Rich-
ford in the office of Clerk F. 8. Piatt of
the I'nited States court. Simon Kaplan
and llarrv Nicholas own the business.
It is alleged that the Star Waist com
pany committed acts of bankruptcy by
giving preference to certain creditors
with the intention of defrauding others-,
namely, bv paving M. D. liudin of Bos
ton $200 in September, 1010, and paying
the Star Grocery company $.i in Octo
ber.
STABBED A WAITER.
DENIED ASSAULT
When Arrested in Lynn, Mass, for Roch
ester, N. H, Authorities.
Lynn, Mass., Nov. 3. Edwin Pray of
Rochester, N. H., was arrested here last
night on a charge of having assaulted
his wife in that city. He was held with
out bail. Mrs. Pray is said to have been
beaten over the head and waa reported to
be in a critical condition.
Pray denied having committed the assault.
One of Two Men of Deujschland Crew
Did It and Fled.
New London, Conn., Nov. 3. Two
member of the Deutschland's crew in
volved in a heated argument with a
waiter in a restaurant late last night
and the latter was stabbed in the arm
with a pocketknife. The sailors fled in
the direction of the steamer Wilh-had,
where the crew is quartered. The po
lice visited the ship, but were unable to
locate the men. The waiter's injury is
not regarded as serious.
Killed by Auto Truck.
Worcester, Mass., X'ov. 3. Miss Myr
tle M. Garrison of Peggy's Cove, Nou
Scotia, who came to Worcester only two
weeks ago. to be supervisor of nurses
in the, state insane hospital, died in the
city hospital yesterday from injuries re
ceived Wednesday night when sin was
run down on Main street, by ai auto
mobile truck. Miss Garrison was 28
years old.
Another Loss.
New York, Xov. 3. Xearly 100 play
wrights and authors suffered financial
loss in the bankruptcy of the publishing
house of G. W. Dillingham A Co., accord
ing to the schedule, of liabilities pub
lished yesterday. The individual royal
ties due are in small amounts. Liabili
ties were given as $12,051 and the asJ
sets $18,676.
GREEK REVOLUTION
NEAR SALONIKI
Veniielist Supporters Drove the Royalist
Troops Out of Katerina Latter
Retreated to Larissa.
London. Xov. 3. After monthof strife
between the adherents of former Premier
Venizelos and the staunch supporters of
King tonstantme oer the question of
Wheat Goes Up Again.
Chicago, X'ov. 3. Price bulges of as
much as five and three-eighths cents a
bushel were shown on some transactions
here yesterday in wheat. The chief rea
son for the advance was a report that
rain in Argentina had turned out to be
insufficient to relieve the drought and
that Argentine newspapers were urjing
an embargo on exports. In Minneapolis
prices for best grades of flour dropped 2fl
cents a barrel yesterday. Fancy patents
were quoted at $10.25.
A Canadian Gift.
Ottawa. Ont., Nov. 3. The farewell
gilt of the women of Canada to the
Duchess of lonnaugbt. amounting to
$52,3o0 was ve-Urdav cabled to London.
The gift will be applied to the Ihichcss
of Ctinnaught's piisoners of war fund in
GOES TO PENITENTIARY.
Richard C. Wood Who Cut Such a Hon
enymoon Splurge.
Portsmouth, N. II., Nov. 3. Richard
C. Wood, who pleaded guilty to raising
a postoffice money order from $1 to $1,
000 was yesterday sentenced to serve
two years in the federal prison at At
lanta, Ga.
Wood was arrested on Oct. 17 at Bel
lows Falls, Yt. a few hours after his
marriage there to Miss Marion Knowles
of Falmouth, Mass.
He made no attempt to cash the mon
ey order, but is alleged to have obtained
credit on false representations of its value.
Supreme Court to Take Recess Till Wed
nesday. The. Vermont supreme court will open
at Montpelier next Tuesday but no bus
iness will be done. Recess will be taken
till Wednesday morning.
TALK OF THE TOWN
MURDERED HIS BROTHER.
Then Eugene A. Marston Turned Shot
gun on Himself.
Augusta, Me., X'ov. 3. Eugene A.
Marston. aged 22 years, shot and killed
his brother, Ralph R. Marston. aged 2'.)
years, in the town of Chelsea last night.
Eugene then took the shotgun and blew
his own head off.
POPE GREATLY AIDS POLES.
Greece's stand in the war, a revolution of compliance with her request.
His Appeal Raises $800,000 for Destitute
in War Zone.
Rome, via London. Xov. 3. Pop? Bene
dict's appeal to bishops throushout the
world to help in the relief of Poland has
brought to the Vatican the sum of $SOO.
. whi.-h will lie sent to the Polish
committee in Switzerland or the relief
of suffering.
George Ruel of Burlington arrived in
the city last night and will spend several
days visiting friends in the city.
Ceorge Stone, who waa employed as a
stonecutter in Barre last winter, arrived
in the city last night and will spend sev
eral days visiting friends in the city be
fore returning to Xew Haven, Conn.,
where he works in an ammunition fac
tory.
Harry Skerritt. who has been visiting
t the home of his parents. Mr. and Mrs.
William Skerritt of Harwell stroet. after
having lieen called here by the accidental
death of his sister, has returned to Xew
Haven, Conn., where he is employed in a
munitions plant.
Roscoe Mclver. former Goddard athlete
and now an endman on the Norwich uni
versity eleven, arrived in the city last j
night while on his way to Graniteville to j
rest up until the game with Middlebury
college Saturday. Mr. Mclver will leave j
for the game to-morrow morning. i
Mr. and Mrs. W. II. Connor, who moved
from this city to Weather.field List May,
Dr. O. K. Barr of Cottage street, who
recovering from a serious attack of
neuritis, left this forenoon for Hampton
Beach, X. If., where he will spend a fort-
iglit with trienda.
Ray Sargent arrived in the city last
ight from Xorthtleld and went to his
ome in Fast Barre, there to spend the
week end recess with his parents before
returning to his studies at Norwich.
A straw vote among men who were ar-
ive in criticising the municipal adminis-
ration yesterday for gaping holes in a
orth Mam street bridge disclosed the
fact that sentiment in the padded ham
mer brigade favors W ilson, although by a
comparatively small margin over Hughes.
Allan Benson, the Socialist candidate,
was within one of the Hughes vote and
lacked the four necemary to overtake the
president. The straw voters seemed to
deplore the inanition of the bridge build
ing office much more than the alleged in
activity of President Wilson where the
Mexican atrocities are concerned.
Mrs. Elvira L. Rhoadcs of Bridgewater,
Mass., widow of Rev. J. Frank Ilhoades,
a former pastor of the UnivcTsalist
church of this city, was given an infur
mal surprise party Thursday afternoon
and evening in honor of her 77th birth
day anniversary at the home of Miss
Blanche J. Tilden of North street. The
event proved very delightful, both to
Mrs. Rhoades and her guests. Many
friends gathered in the afternoon and
still more in the evening, bringing with
them flowers and congratulations that
she had readiel so great an age in so
charming a way that the burden of
years rests very lightly upon her. Re
freshments were served.
Mrs. Isabella Thompson of Spanlding
street received a message this morning
advising her of the sudden death of Mrs.
Robert Thompson, which occurred in
Ifardwick this morning. It was stated
that details of her demise would be in
closed in a letter. Among natives of
Scotland in Barre the deceased was well
known and had been a frequent visitor
n thn city. Only recently he was
called to Barre by the death of a friend
and at that time she seemed so be in ex
cellent health. She is survived bv her
huslmnd, an employe of the Woodbury
Granite Co.. who is well known in local
football circles, and by two children, a
son and a daughter. Arrangements for
the funeral have not been completed.
Irospective citizens in Barre and Barre
Town are anxiously awaiting the appear
ance of Clerk F. S. Piatt of the United
States court and-his retinue of assistants.
It was planned to hold a session of nat-
iralization court at city hall last week.
but unforeseen obstacles prevented the
clerk from coming to Barre and the ses
sion had to be postponed. Most of those
who are to go through the mill applied
for papers Inst August, although a con
siderable number who are seeking citizen
ship will make, their initial application
whenever the court ba.s a sitting in this
city. A majority of the candidates re
side in Barre Town and it is possible
that the clerk and his staff will devote
a half -day or more to a hearing in Gran
iteville. Forty young people of the Italian col
ony gathered at the home of Richard Bir.
r.oiero at 2 Second street last evening to
remind him of his 19th birthday. The
visitors were upon the young man before
he wa-s aware of what might happen, the
party being planned as a complete sur
prise. Speaking for the assembled com
pany and for others who were unable fo
attend. Joseph Quatropani presented the
host a set of gold cufflinks and a cravat
brooch. The recipient made an appro
priate response. Afterward rtiere was an
impromptu program of vocal and instru
mental numbers. Among those who con
tributed vocal solos were Charles Sassi,
Blossom Ossola. Miss Kdna Rossi and
Miss Julia Bi.zozero. A chicken dinner,
cooked Italian style, was served In-fore
the guests departed.
A meeting by the teachers of the Sun
dav schools in the Barre churches was
held lat night in the vestry of the Con
gregational church when a large number
assembled to discuss the reports of the
And 569 Children Left Mathewson School
in One Minute, 20 Seconds.
The 560 pupils in the Mathewson school
wero industriously engaged in their work
yesterday afternoon when "Clang" went
the fire gong. The children junied to
their feet; the dozen teachers hurried
to open the dozen school room doors; the
piano started a quick march; the lines
on the first flour moved swiftly toward
the exits, one to the Kim street side of
tho other to the Jefferson street side of
the building. In 15 seconds a second
"Clang" sounded; and the older children
on the two upper floors of the building
swung into the lines headed by the
youngsters; and in one minute and 20
seconds the huge building was entirely
cleared of its more than half-thousand
children.
There was no fire; it was simply one
of th fire drills which Supt. White in
sists on having once in so often to fa
miliarize the children with the most sys
tematic way of getting out of the build
ing should emergency really arise, as well
as to teach them a measure of composure
under mental strain.
And the celerity with which the build
ing was cleared was a marvel. There
were 56!) children and a dozen teachers
entirely unaware that a tire drill was to
lie tried every one of them snatched
abruptly from their work and vet quit
ting the building in perfect order, not
knowing but what the building really was
afire. One-third of them had to descend
from the third floor, another third from
the second floor and the remainder down
a short flight, of stairs to the street. They
marched swiftly down the bronrt stair
cases, four in a row and the four holding
hands, the latter provision to assist any
who might stumble in their hurried de
parture. Each school was marshalled by
its teacher, who watched to see that the
stragglers were kept up with the swiftly
moving procession. All the while the
piano was rvthmieally pounding out its
quick march, as if to reassure the chil
dren and at the same time to keep them
in step.
They have these drills frequently in
the Barre schools; in fact, have had them
for a number of years. Sometimes faster
time is made than the Mathewson school
children made vesterday afternoon. Tho
Spanlding building with its devious ways
was cleared of 625 children in one minute
and 10 seconds; which is remarkably
good time considering the distance from
the rooms to the exits and considering
also the large number present.
Needless to say, the fire drill is a very
w ise provision.
MORE ECONOMY,
URGES GRAHAM
Republican Candidate for;
Governor Deplores Need
less Expenditure
PROMISES ' STOP
THELE a i IF HE CAN!
Congrc .an Dale Attacked
Wil' s Administration
ast Evening
WAS NATIVE OF N0RTHFIELD.
Mrs. H. T. J. Howe, Who Died at Han
over, N. H., Was Buried at Waitsfield.
Waitsfield, Nov. 3. The funeral of
Mrs. H. T. J. Howe was he id at her resi
dence in the village Thursday afternoon
at 2 o'clock. Rev. I. Mellor, pastor of the
M. E. church, of which Mrs. Howe was a
member, officiating. Mrs. Howe liad been
in failing health several years, and for
the past few weeks had been confined to
her bed by heart disease, the end coming
Monday, Oct. 30, at 10 p. m., at the home
of her daughter in Hanover, N. H.
Mrs. Lucy Howe was born in North
field Aug. 12. 1853, the daughter of
George and Lucinda (Smith) Bailey. On
Spt. 5, 1876. she was married to Dr.
Henry T. J. Howe. In 18S2 they settled
in Waitsfield, where they remained until
Dr. Howe's decease in January, 1915.
Mrs. Howe is survived bv one son.
George Howe of Derry, X'. II., and one
daughter, Edith Olive, the wife of Ray
mond B. Raird of Hanover, X. H. : also
by two nieces, Miss May Howe and Luna,
the wife of C. J. Greene.
The funeral was largely attended and
interment was in the family lot in tho
village cemetery. The bearers were C. J.
Greene, William C. Bragg, Andrew W.
Bigelow and John L. Baird. Those at
tending from out of town were Mr. and
Mrs. George H'fiwe of Perry, X'. II., Mr.
and Mrs. Raymond Baird of Hanover, N.
If., Miss May Howe of Montpelier, Mr.
and Mrs. Howe of Roxbury, and Mr. and
Mrs. Bailey of Northfield.
WAS NATIVE OF T0PSHAM.
Mrs. Harley Whitcomb Died Yesterday
in Orange.
Mrs. Harley Whitcomb, aged 45 years,
died Thursday at her home in Orange
after suffering with heart trouble for the
past vear and a half. Early in the fall
she went to the Mary Fletcher hospital 'and declared that it has relied mainly on
An audience of 200 people, including ai
considerable number of women, listened
to Republican speechmaking in the opera
house last evening, the occasion being tho
first and only partisan rally in the cam
paign of 1016 to be held in Barre, Thn
speakers were Congressman Porter H.
Dale of the second district. State Auditor
Horace F. Graham, the gubernatorial can
didate, and Sanford A. Daniels of Brattle
boro, a member of the industrial accident
board, who spoke but briefly concerning"
the operation of the workingmen's com
pensation act. Frank G. Howland presid
ed. Xone of the speakers essayed any of
the old-time flights of oratory, but con
tented themselves with a moderate dis
cussion of state and national issues and
it was to lie noted that the audience list
ened most attentively, even though vocif
erous applause was lacking and demon
strative outbursts were conspicuously ab
sent. The Barre Citizens band gave a
concert before the speechmaking began.
A gentle heckler whollv unlike the typ
of bothersome gallery commentators who
have been badgering some of the candi
dates of national prominence provided a
bit of amusement toward the close of tho
rally when he arose from his seat near
the stage and queried Candidate Graham
as to his stand on the per diem pay of
the legislators. His main objection
seemed to be launched against the action
of the general assembly in voting an
extra dollar for its members and he was
informed that if Mr. Graham had been
governor the bill to increase the pay of
the legislators would have been vetoed.
Congressman Dale had dealt extensively
with national issues and State Auditor
Graham had just concluded a statement
of his gubernatorial platform when the
venerable querist propon tided his ques
tion. The reply of the governor-to-be
seemed to strike a responsive chord, for
the elderly man insisted upon shaking
the candidate's hand before he retired to
his seat.
Congressman Dale referred briefly to
his acquaintance with Barre people and
referred to those whom he had known as
men of warm friendliness, whether they
were his supporters or his competitors.
His rhetorical effort was turned for the
most part on the shortcomings of tha
Wilson administration, although at the
last he spoke earnestly of the qualifica
tions of tnarles tvans Hughes. Ha
ascribed to the present administration
certain radical changes in government
and accused it of enacting legislation that (
is only temporary and fit merely for
emergencies. It has gone around, over
and under problems, he said, instead of
solving them for all time. The next ad
ministration, if it be Republican, must,
for example, pass an adequate rural cred
its bill to supplant the temporary legis
lation recently enacted. It must frame a
law that will enable Vermont farmers
and all other agriculturists to borrow
money without humiliating themselves.
The true principles of arbitration must
he recognized by the incoming adminis
tration, if the Republicans are successful,
and above all, a tariff change will be necessary.
The speaker then turned to the alleged
extravagance of the Wilson regime, as
cribed to it a record of expending more
than a half million dollars per dav m
some months, charged that the methods
of bookkeeping had lieen so changed as to
preclude the possibility of determining
just how much money has liecn spent
in Hurlington, Hoping unit, treatment
might give her relief, but she seemed to
receive no help and returned home. She
had suffered much, but very patiently
Mrs. Whitcomb was born in Topsham,
going later to Corinth, where most ot
her life was spent. Twenty-three years
ago she married Mr. hitcomb and came
to the town of Orange to reside, living on
the same place for the past 11 years. She
was very highly respected among her
acquaintances and friends.
She was a member of Cobble Hill
grange and Winona council, Xo. 8 of
East Barre.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Whitcomb
leaves a son, Civile, and daughter, Bcr
nice. The funeral will lie held from her late
hnm at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon,
Rev. .lames Bamage officiating. It is
requested that flowers be omitted.
REBEKAH RITUAL GIVEN.
At
Funeral of Mrs. Margaret Arey
Thursday Afternoon.
The funeral of Mrs. Margaret Fcrnald
Arey, whose d-ath at her home on tho
Montpelier road Tuesday morning fol
lowed a long illness, was held at the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. J. B. Reardon. pa-tor of the Barre
I'niversalist church, officiating. The
liearers were: George H. Hovt, George
Mmlipsoii. E. T. Mower ami Gcorre
teachers, who were elected as delegates !( re(,(i, Mothers of Bright Star Kebokah
loile attended the funeral and gave the
ritual. There were many Moral tribute.
Interment was made in Hope cemetery.
to the state Sumlay school convention
held at Brattlehoro Oct. 1!) 21. After the
are passing M few days with friends in reports ot tlie Jfraltlehoro meeting were
the city. With Mr. and Mrs. Joseph I discussed, the members present delmted
Hoyt. also former residents of Barre. ion the subject of organizing a community
they are living on a large farm in Weath- j teachers' training course with Charles A.
erstield. not far from Springfield. They j Boyd of Burlington, secretary of the
will return home to-morrow. ; State Sunday .School association, as the
Little friends of Stillman Landry of 'one to conduct the work, he having to
South Barre gave him a surprise part v meet the class once a month, and to be
at the home of Mrs. Josppli JJabidean of j assisted in his work by Rev. William
Elm street last night when about 20shaw of .Montpelier and Aliss Alarum
gathered. A pleas-mt evening wss spent ! stickney of this city. hev. hxtgar I ro-
in nlavinir cames of various sorts, after land of the I resbyterian church was
whiih'a lunch was served the guests, j elected a chairman of the committee and jlat evening. A lr
Master I-andrv r-eied manv nretty Mrs. Carl Eisenwinter was made eecre-'ent snd an enjovablt
Burt Hatch of Xewburv returned to
his home to-day. after spending e-tcr-
corporation and income taxes, paid large
ly by the Xortli, and on the munitions
plants Which are' thriving only for tho
time-being as a result of the war.
With numerous internal problems that
have lieen allowed to go by the board,
the country, nevertheless, is more deeply
concerned with the surrender of its pres
tige among the great powers of the world.
Mr. Dale argued that Wilson's mistaken
foreign policy with relation to Europe a
well as to Mexico has furnished an issue
which eclipses all problems here at home.
He shivered to think of Sec. Baker's com
parison of our own Revolutionary heroes
with the banditti of Mexico and cited
the first boat sinking incident as an ex
ample of the administration's short-sight
ed and shrinking policy. Answering a
hypothetical question as to what Hughes
would have done about the Lusitania in
cident, the speaker claimed that he would
have promised a complete severing of
diplomatic relations should there be a re
currence of the incident.
Congressman Dale reiterated the oft-
repeated claim that I'resident Wilson
failed to protect American lives in Mex
ico ami cited the Vera Crus affair along .
with the Tampico liay incident, not for
getting to mention in passing that it
was a German lioat which offered protec
tion to Americans at Tampico when the
navy department restrained Admiral
Mayo from doing his duty. (ood old
American diplomacy, he said, would have
saved the lives of 2..HHI American citizen
and citizens of other neutral nations and
war would have Wen unnecessary. " A
tor Mexico. Iluerta controlled all but
'three of the 2" states and was in a posi
tion to gie the citizens of other eoun
Itries ample protection. The speaker ac-'.ii-e.1
the administration of bungling
iig:iiii when it pcrniitt-d the embargo on
isrnis to be raied lon;r the Mexican bor
der and made Heht of the confidence re-
jrecnta from his friends.
tary of the organization.
dav in the citv on business.
Miss Flora Hood, who is emploved
Barre, left this morning for West Ton- ' i..,-ed bv the government in Carranza
sham, where she will visit at her home; He gme it as his opinion that littln
over the week end. ,nn 1 cf". teil from the Mexican-Amer-
Geddes. orchestra played for ";im;i- ji.sn conference now going on aboard th
ers association dan-p in e-l j opslum ! Mjm rower sn-l lamented in cireum-
e crowd wa pie- -isnci which hae permitted Mexican
time was spent ly
(Continued a third fag-
