c- It. ltutht
Columbus is the Only Port of Entry and Natural Gateway From Old
Mexico into New Mexico
Vol. VI.
M.W MEXICO GUARDS
MHN ENTITLED TO VOTE.
opinion by Attorney General
Frank W. Clnncy (Jives Those
U ho Desire to Vote the Right.
I hi- question of whether the
,. ..rdsmon have a right to vote
, nut has been raised by the
l, Minrmtic candidates, and con
m ruble discussion, pro and
has been indulged in. The
i, in.wing telegram wan recoiv
,,: i. Republican County Chair
,,.,n .1. R. Bluir this morning,
n the Attorney Genural of
I, -tate, who is the recognized
i..ui"rity on such matters.
I his should settle the matter
.. i hf minds of all fair thinking
, . ii. and stop any further dis
, .,4iun. The telegram is as
-until Fc. N. M., Nov. 2, 191(.
I. It. Hlair.
i ulumbiiH, N. M.
Authorities cited in telegram
Pollard to Alhright examined
iiiiii I 'iey are in point except one
thei harmonize with my prcv-
mu opinions that residence is .
Lngey matter of intention May j
In. evidenced liv declarations of
ilu- individual and by his act!
voter is not prohibited by con--imitional
provision from ac
quiring new residence merely
because he is a soldier Men who
have had intention in good faith
lor ninet.v and thirty days res
pect ivulj to make Luna county
.i rid Columbus their residence
.ire entitled to vote.
FRANK W. CLANCY.
Attorney General.
Our county-wide high school
was established through the ef
forts, very largely of County
Superintendent Grace G iloeb
tl. The boating plant iimUllwl
i i .i number of the rurai schools
t. give regular and uniform
'iinperature. The county sup-
i iiiU'iuleiU recommended those
;.iel savers.
WHY YOU SHOULD
NOTE FOR HUBBLE.
Charles M Hughe will ccr
i.tinly be elected prusidont and
i.i- must have a Republican con
I'lcss behind him.
Hubble will work with Hughes
.mil Hubble is a willing work-
1 1
Hubble is of Senatorial cali
in Hubble will be heard from
.n Washington.
Hubble knows the needs of
'-w Mexico, and New Mexico
i is a man like Hubble in
V Islington.
Hubble has demonstrated to
people of New Mexico that
' is a man "t ability and one
".it is able to serve the people
' " will sen e the people
lU'iause be will be our mt
e.itor, and Hughw needs him.
i t- Hughes a chance by giv-,
. bun a Senate that will work!
i him. '
Iv.-lve new school buildings
b i . been erected in Luna coun
' 'i ii'ing this udmfnistration.
lbe ..re vciontificalf), construc
'tl witii reference to lighting
ad ventilation.
Work
When vou buv woik shirts or overalls you want something that will
stand up under hard wear and jjivc satisfaction in fit and convenience.
Our wrk shirts arc made up in several colors and vary in weights and
m.teiial fiom the ligbt chamlnay to the heaviest of flannels and wool
ens. They "fc manufactured by the best shirt makers in America and
air first class in finish and workmanship
No matter what your work may be you will find our line of jackets
and overalls suited to your dcinanils.
SAM RAVEL
THh DHL- AK OR DiMK V.r SUKNI) WITH US
Reasons Why Hughes Should Be Elected
UKCAUSH lie stands for I'rotet linn.
Hon ,llU Wi" V"1 Ir""t lmrtlw"",'"l' triumph over Patriotism.
UiA AUfsb hi8 Ki:i'h of awplancc c.pre.c his desire to co-operate with
iiwrw tin , lu,'Vlal,,aK. "t 1" exploit it fr his own.
UIA AUbh he will command the respect of Europe and As
. the friendship of Latin-Aimrir-i
UKCAUSH he will never by proclamation .leny the right of American
to pursue their busine in other lands iniilor the protection of the
Ariiericiin flag.
ilwrM Men l'P W'" ,mt r,'l""1",,(' American ling in any land.
,'; '"' '' t put action into words, hut words into acHon.
UfcLAUhh, as Theodore Itoonnelt well says, ho has high sentiment
of justice ami dignity, is upright mid straightforward, i an biwn-
teslablo master of judicial mutton), ami nlwavs translates his wont
mlo deeds.
BKCAUSK he is a strong, sure, courageous man, with a clear-cut program
before him and with the courage, inlelligomi. and determination to
carry it out and bring to our couutxv self-rogpeeting peace and
world-wide respect.
BKCU'SK as Uovernor of N'ew York he has alrendv proved that m-
dared to do the right thing, ami in pn-parod to further do and dare
when called into a wider Held
HKCAl'SK he is not a dreamer and not a quitter.
BKCAUSK lie is a firm friend of preparedness for the United Slate?
. .'""! .",ot f0r prepartilnocs through iolitiral expediency.
HKCAl'SK he will not burden us with war laxiw in time nf peace.
ULC.M'S.X we need a tanir not founded upon flee trade, nor for "row-
urn only," but to protect American labor and American tndwtrv
from the deadly com pet it inn of the foreigner.
BKCAUSK he is a red-blooded American II is .lu-v will bo "Ammxii
firht. America efficient."
HKCAl'SK he can be depended upon to keep platform pledges.
HKCAl'SK he wi-protect this countn against being flooded Mith tin
cheap manufactures of Europe after the war.
HKCAl'SK' he is the chosen head of a party which has long fathered
all great constructive legislation which exivricmv has proved U
be wise ami which has invariably been opposed by the Democratic
party.
BKCAUSK a business man is going to be especially needed in the next
few years, in conseipience of the Kuropcan war tremendous read
justment of the world's business is abend. The I nitnd States must
be economically prepared. It must not. as now. bo left dofenre
less. It must not have a President with au untrained buEiinw
mind, ever changing. .Mr. Hughes made a remarkable reeord ai
a business (iovernor of New York. He has extraordinary abiliti
to see all sides of a question. Not fnuii him. as from Wilton, will
be heard any declaration that be will bang business men "hig-b a
Human" if they do not agree with htm.
BECAUSE he is a man of forward visum, of pructicubilitv and (Inline
. .uat,.a,iiuire.tb.iiUrinuii and Aln.iriL ., .
HBCAUSK ho stands for the protection of Amerimn livos and properix
abroad as well as at home.
BECAUSE through him the whole nation will be in the ioeruuieiit
It will not U ruled by one section, nor by one man.
HECAUSK he is for an effective, not au unsound and sham yetem
of rural credits to help the farmer and for a wise conservation ol
natural resources.
HKCAl'SK he is for a Federal workingmen's compensation law guiiabh
fur the ompliivcj of the (iovernmcut. and ihuae employes eugageil
in interstate commerce and subject to the bnuinl of injury.
BECAUSE be favors uiiestigutiug before legi-lating.
NOTES BY PASTOR
OF M. E. CHURCH.
Thef irst quarterly meeting
i '' the eonfeetjiiee year w:" be
ne.'ri at the ebw. -h T'l ida , , N',-
ember 3rd, at 7-30. Or S.
Alonzo Bright. Superintendent
.f the distm . will pre.ich. 0 in
ference will follow the protxh
ing service.
On Sunday evening. Novem
ber "ith. a temperance progrnn
will be rendered in which men.
women and children will take
part Songs, recitations, res
ponsive readings, etc. Two es
pecially prepared maps will be
used to set forth and enforce
some of the greatest facts con
cerning our country nnd its for
ward movement over growing in
Colnmbu or any other town, in
our notion.
The Hallowe'en social was
pronounced a great success by
Shirts and Overalls
Columbus. Luna County,
Prosperity. Preparedness ami I'him-
peratc
iu and win
those participating in the fes
tivities. Delicious coffee, oy
ster stews not the proverbial
kind, but the real thing, and
luscious pies, were served. The
church was artistically decorat
ed, showing the great pains tak
en and amount of work done by
those having the preparations in
hand.
The Epworth League services
at 0:30 next Sunday evening.
Miss Claudia Whittle. Leader.
The last call for contributions
to the relief fund for the starv
ing millions in Armenia and Sy
ria. Collection will be sent in
Saturday, November Ith. An
nouncement of the amount rais
ed will be made nxt Sunday. You
have an opportunity to save a
human life. Will you hsnr the
call?
JOSEPH E. NORVEL. Pastor.
Boost Columbus by patron ':
ing her industries.
COLUMBUS,
New Mexico
IMCHT HURK T HOM1'
New Mexico. November 3, 1916.
Reasons Why Wilson
BLCAl Sh, to cite HuprcM-iifiitju. Fitzgerald, Democratic Chairman of
the Appropriations Committee of the House, during his administra
tion the Democratic Congress lias been the most extravagant thai
has ever met in the capital.
BECAUSE he insists on bis shipping bill an indefensible piece of follv
which would destroy such merchant marine as we now have.
HECAt'SE, although he says "ho kept us out of war," the story ol
Mexico, San Domingo and Ilayti refutes him.
HECAUSK he runs anti-climaxes. He morchos in only to march out
again.
BECAUSE- he wgned the scmnenV bill, which practically has wiped out
shipping on the Pacific Coast.
BECAUSE he attempted to scuttle from the Philippine and wa defeated
only by twenty patriotic Democrats who voted with tho Republi
cans of the House.
BECAUSE he appointed as Secretary of Stato William J. Bryan aflei
denouncing him as a post who should bo "knocked into a cocked
hat."
HECAUSK be made possible Villa, murderer of men and despoilet
of women, and Ciirranza. the fatuous and futile "First Chief. '
BECAUSE Wilson's text book statesmanship and grape-juice diplomat
have made tho United States an international laughing stock.
BECAUSE he appointed "deserving Democrats" to the diplomatic corps,
displacing exjicrieiired men at a time when it wns essential to the
foreign trade and honor of the United States to retain competent,
experienced men.
BECAUSE he is incompetent to lead, ami veers like a weather vane
whenever a zephyr of public opinion eems to blow against him.
BECAUSE hit "one-track mind" has too many turn-tables.
HECAUSK be lifted the embargo of arms so tlmt tho Mexican despe
radoes have used American ammunition to murder American sol
diers and civilians.
BECAUSE the promised "pitiless publicity" has been replaced by private
special, secret negotiations by personal agents and representatives,
apjioinfed by Proidcnt Wilson without "the advice and consent
of the Senate."
BECAUSE ho reverses himself so rapidly that the entire country is
seasick from the motion.
BECAUSE he is for free trade, direct taxes and an empty trcasurx
the same old Democratic trinity.
BECAUSE if the Pnym-Aldriclt law had been in operation in the
last nine months of 1015 we would have collected $01,05().1G1 more
than we did under the 1'i.derwood law. It would have met the
treasury deficits and have avoided war taxes. The foreigner selling
in our market got the entire benefit of the $91,050,101.
BECAUSE during the first ten months of the Wilson-Underwood law
there were more unemployed being fed by charity than during
any ten months in our history, excepting under the Wilson
Gorman oiAi . -
HECAUSK of his inconsistency on the immigration bill. In his "His
tory of the American People," vol. 5, p. 213, he wrote: "The Chi
nese were more to be desired as workmen, if not as citizens, than
mitet of the coarse crew that came crowding in every year at the
Eastern ports."
BECAUSE he has not reduced, as he promised, the high cost of living,
but has actually made it higher.
HECAt'SE he was pledged to a single term by the Baltimore conven
tion, but before the type was cold be was building up his fence
for another.
BECAUSE, although posing as an advocate of civil service, every act of
his as President in connection with civil service has been adverse to
its principle, obstructive and destructive of its bonafide practice.
ELECTION RETURNS AT
THE COURIER OFFICE.
The Courier invites the people
of Columbus, the soldiers of the
commnntl here, and especially
the New Mexico guardsmen, to
be at the office on the evening
f November 7th, and see the
returns of the county, state and
national election as they come
in. A wire has been put into
The Courier building nnd the
returns will be available here as
early us in New York City.
REPORTS FROM THE FIELD.
News Gathered From Over
Tre State Just Before tioing
to Pn -s.
Soco -o, '. Me.
Courier,
'V'lunr is. N. V .
Wild onthusiasm exists among
.,'1 Republicans of this county.
Absolute harmony prevails. The
report from each precinct of the
county shows increased strength
for the entire ticket. All Re
publican meetings are attended
by great crowds while the Dem
ocratic meets are apparently
a frost. The largest Repub
lican majority in the history of
the county will be given to the
entire Republican ticket.
M. C. SPICER,
Chairman Co. Exectutivehr
Chairman County Executive
Committee.
Roswell. N. M Nov. 1, 191 (5.
Cottrior,
Columbus, N. M.
Chaves county Republicans
have been hitting the ball hard
throughout this campaign. Wo
are getting' into this election,
'.t with the prospects of carry
ing Chaves county but with the
mutuf
Should Be Defeated
certainty that we will so reduce
the Democratic majority here
as to materially effect the result
on state ticket.
C. L. PARSONS.
County Secretary.
Alamagordo, N. M., Nov. 2.
Courier,
Columbus, N. M.
Republicans of Otero county
are working harmoniously. Ev
crv indication is for a clean
sweep. Bursum and the bal
ance of the state ticket .will car
ry the county by a substantial
majority.
JOHN T. HUTCH1NGS,
County Chairman.
Lake Valley, N. M.. Nov. 2.
Columbus Courier,
Columbus, N. M.
Unprecedented success for the
national, state and county Re
publican ticket is now assured.
The Republican organization of
Sierra county is in excellent
working order and a grand ral
ly of the party is evident
throughout the county. The
Bursum and Hubboll ticket is
growing daily and the entire
ticket will win.
MAX L. KAHLER.
Las Cruces. N. M.. Nov. 2.
Courier,
Columbus, N. M.
Nevor have Republicans been
so united and enthusiastic. Our
most sanguine expectations will
be eclipsed.
H. B. HOLT,
Chairman Donanna County Re
publican Central Committee.
Carlsbad, N. M., Nov. 2.
Columbus Courior,
Columbus, N. M.
Thore will be a Republican
Continued "on Page Eight.
No. 20
MAYOR'S ORDER ON
CLOSING NOT EFFECTIVE.
Several days before Novem
ber 1 the mayor of Columbus
served each person or firm en
gaged in the business of soiling
near beer in the town with an
order that such business or oc
cupation must close October 31.
An ordinance had been duly
passed and signed by the
mayor authorizing the cnl
the mayor authorizing the col
lection of. a tax of $() per
month for selling near beer ami
at the time the closing order
was issued the said ordinance
had not been repealed, and va.
still effective. Some of the near
beer men demanded a tax re
ceipt from the clerk after pa
ment. C. H. Johnson had secured
such a tax receipt after pay
ment of the $50 and on the
morning of November 1 sold a
bottle of Hiawatha. He was im
mediately arrested by Thos. G.
Lackland, village marshal, and
taken before Judge Peach. A
hearing was had and Johnson
was released. The decision of
the court without a doubt gave
all persons holding a tax receipt
the same privilege as Johnson
had taken, though none of the
men opened for business.
Later m the day W. C. Hoov
er. J. R. Blair, village clerk. ;
E. Parks and Village Marshal
Thus. O. Lackland went to thosi
who had paid the tax and re
quested that in the interest of
the town they close up and not
sell any near beer, which they
1I readily agreed to do. and now
the lid is on tight.
Wednesda.v evening. Novem
ber 1. the trustees met and re
pealed the ordinance authoriz
ing the tax. and adopted the fol
lowing it solution:
"BE IT RESOLVED BY THE
BOARD OF-TRUSTEES OF
THE VILLAGE OF COLUM
BUS. N. M.:
"That Whereas, by Ordinance
No. 22. duly adopted and ap
proved on the 1st day of Aug
ust, 191C. by the Trustees and
Mayor of the Village of Colum
bus, N. M.. the barter, sale or
exchange, or the offering for
barter, sale or exchange of an
spirituous malt, or other intox
icating liquors was and is pro
hibited. And Whereas, for some time
tan. Two per cent and other im
tan, Tw per cent, and other im
itation and near beers which are
malt and spirituous, have boon,
and are now being, bartered and
sold by various individuals and
places of business in the village
of Columbus. N. M.
And Whereas, the illcgnliu
of the barter and sale and ex
change of said described near
and imitation beers having been
called to the attention of the
Mayor and Trustees of said Vil
lage of Columbus, N. M., and
the said Mayor having thereup
on, on the 16th day of October.
191G, as his own act and the act
of said Trustees, served written
notice upon all of said individ
uals and places of business, en
gaged in the sale of said near
and imitation beers, that on and
after the 31st day of October.
191G. no occupation tax receipts,
license or other form of permit
would be issued by said village
for the sale of said Two Per
Cont or other near or imitation
beers, nnd that thereafter the
sale of such beers would be
prosecuted in the manner and
form provided by law and ordi
nance ;
"And Whereas, in direct con
flict of the law nnd said ordi
nance, and in disregard of said
written notice, G. E. Parks, City
Clerk, and Thomas G. Lackland.
City Marshal of the Village of
Columbus, N. M., having receiv
ed and accepted from several in
dividuals and places of business
the sum of fifty (50) dollars,
issued to said individuals and
places of business an alleged li
conse for the sale of said near
and imitation beers;
"And Whoreas, Said isuance
of said purported licenses wns
and is without the authorization,
sctionor approval of the said
CrnilEnTueffage" liignt.
