MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1916.
NUMBER 110
MEW
Income of New Mexico State Land Office Doubles
That of a Year Ago for Period of October Settlements
Ervien Check to State Treasurer for $41 6,864.83
RECEIPTS FOR SAME
PERIOD LAST YEAR
REACHED TOTAL OF
ONLY $234,445.97
Grand total of cash income
for year $635,547.57, with in
come due from 1,200 leases
and sale contracts still
to be paid in before
november 30.
INCOME IN 1997, ERVIEN'S
FIRST YEAH, WAS $7,552,15
OPERATING COST OF GREAT PUB
LIC BUSINESS HELD DOWN TO
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT PER
CENT THIS YEAR, WITH
PUBLICITY DEPARTMENT
COST INCLUDED.
Santa Pa. N. M Nov. 1. Robert
1. Ervien, New Mexico commissioner
4 Public lands late last week drew a
check on the First National bank of
this city. In favor of the Treasurer
ef New Mexico, for tbe sum ot $410,
M4.83, the largest single check ever
tamed into the state treasury as in
come from the state's public lands,
lor distribution to the funds of the
various state beneficiaries of the lea
Aral land grants.
Tho big check represents the in
tern of the state land office for the
farted ot the October settlements and
akowa an Increase over the income
tor the Bame period of last year of
flS4.140.16, when the land commis
sioner's check to the state treasurer
m $234,445.97. The figures mean
that there has been an increase in the
fate's income from public lands dur
ing the present year, over the Income
Of last year of close to 100 per cent.
Prior to the annual October settle
tents the Land Commissioner bad
aid Into the state treasury $166,
161.44, making a grand total for the
year to this time, of $PS5, 547.57.
There remains to be added to this big
total the Income due and payable, on
or before November 30, 191C, the end
Of the state's' fiscal year, from 1,200
leases and contracts of sale, on which
the annual settlements have not yet
been made. ,
For the first time the people of
New Mexico have an oppdrtunity to
realize Just how big the state's pub
lic land Income and operations have
become during the administration of
the stale lands by Mr. Ervien. It is
by far the biggest business enterprise
In the state, and It is administered on
a smaller proportionate cost for oper
ation than Is any other big business
enterprise in the state, either public
or private.
It hag cost the state, up to this
time this year considerably less than
I per cent to operate the big land
department, and when the total an-
Snal cost has been footed up it will
e approximately an even 8 per cent.
This operating cost Includes the new
publicity department, added to the
state land department by the legisla
tors of 1915, by an act permitting
the land commissioner to expend 3
per cent of the Income of the state
land department for promotion of the
Improvement and advancing values of
the land, and for advertising and en
couraging the industries and develop
ment of the resources of the state.
Some Idea of the growth achieved
In the state's land business can be
had from the fact that in the first
year of Mr. Ervlen's administration,
1907, the total of the annual October
settlement was but $7,552.15. Al
most from the time Mr. Ervien took
charge of the department under an
appointment by the then territorial
governor, there has been a rapid an
imal Increase In the Income. The'ad
dltlonal grant of six million acres of
federal lands under the enabling act,
more than doubled the state's hold
ings, but with due regard to the pro
portionate value of the state's total
land holdings, the Income from the
lands has Increased at a ratio far In
advance of the increase In the grant
Itself. The greatest Increase has
come during the last two years, dur
ing which time the land commissioner
has been able to put Into effect In a
state-wide way his policies for devel
opment of state owned lands, which
have been forming practically since
the day he took charge of the depart
ment Annual Income Almost Doubles.
The total Income from state lands,
for the fiscal year ended November
80, 1915, was 424,725,89. j
When all Settlements for the pres
ent fiscal year have been made, and
the balance has been struck for this
fiscal vear on November 20 the tntnl
Income for the fiscal year 1916 will
or PICK OP T1IK
COMMISSIONKU OF PUBLIC LANDS
STATIC OP ISKW MEXICO
NOV 1-1916
taHTvFkSUH,.
.101 ""..
2907
IVrTOTHK
UIlltKK Or
Oft ED SIXTEEN THOUSA
W2
AllS
Fihst National Dank, o-"u547
SANTA FE, N. M. f " S er6-''
Life.
r at PUt Ltul
HANDLING STATE LAND FUND DEPOSITS
NO CINCH FOR BANKS, SAYS BANKER
Santa Fe, N. M., November 1. "I have seen somewhere an inti
mation that New Mexico banks which have deposits of state land
funds realize large profits therefrom, and in view of our own experi
ence as the thief depository of those funds. It has caused me some
amusement," said Levi A. Hughes, president of the First National
bank ot Santa Fe today, in response to an inquiry for some detailed
Information concerning the largest income payment from public lands
ever turned into the state treasury in a single check. The state
land commissioner's check for $416,804.83, being tha total of accumu
lated funds for the annua! October settlement of the department, was
drawn on the First National here, and is one ot the largest checks
ever paid by any New Mexico bank.
"People have an Idea I think," said Mr. Hughes, "Jt at least
some people seem to have it, that the state land commissioner comes
around and leaves large sums ot money with the banks for indefi
nite periods during which the banks can loan the money at current
Interest rates and make large profits. The impression, If It really
exists, la wholly wrong. This bank, as the custodian of the state
land department's checking account, generally carries a heavier vol
ume ot the department's business and deposits than any other bank
in the state. Of course our bank wants the business and Is glad to
have it entrusted to us. The commissioner has made our bank the
principal depository largely because of convenience, and to reduce
expense to the minimum. It Is a compliment to the institution which
we appreciate; but any idea that our bank makes any large profit
upon the handling of these fuuds is entirely wrong.
"As a matter of fact a bank finds it difficult to realize any profit
on the state land office account. The period of the deposit is uncer
tain. The money is liable to be withdrawn at any time, and because
of this its use in current commercial loans is not practical for a con
servative banking institution. It is true that at times the state land
deposits help swell our balances with our reserve banks In the east,
but anyone familiar with banking knows that the interest rate paid
on such deposits is very small.
"On the other hand the cost of handling the enormous volume ot
transactions which mako up tho daily and monthly business of the
state land office, practically uses up all profit accruing from interests
paid to us on those deposits. Take this big check here for instance;
it represents a total of 3,583 separate and distinct Items ranging from
$2 up, all of which renuuire separate handling, separate clearing on
other banks, scattered all through the United States and Canada, and
a banking detail which is very heavy, particularly during tho settle
ment periods. The only times when our deposits of state land funds
are very heavy is during these settlement periods, confined almost
wholly to the month of October when tbe business is very hoavy in
deed, as shown by this large check to the state treasurer, clearing
from our bank the accumulations of the October settlement period
for this year, and establishing a dsw record hi Mob aaymenU fe UN
treasurer.
"Once every so often a check comes back anad we have the task
of sending It back over the route again or undoing the transaction
all the way back to Its source. Tbe land office deposits made here
during the past thirty days will aggregate half a million dollars. To
have handled the banking end ot those transactions in his own of
fices the land commissioner would have required a special force of
trained banking men almost as large as our whole bank force here.
We handle all that detail, but we cannot make loans from these de
posits, for we have notice that they are subject to immediate with
drawal, or at any time.
"The present land commissioner Is exacting In his care for de
tail, and while this is highly commendable on his part, It makes the
hanrllmg of his banking business a very arduous undertaking. Fre
quently payments are made in excess of the amount due. Whenever
such an excess is under twenty cents the commissioner refunds it In
postage stamps. But over twenty cents we are required to issue a
cashier's check for the surplus which goes hack to the man sending
in the overpayment. I mention this as an Illustration of the vast de
tail work which goes with this deposit We are glad to have the land
department business; In many ways it is a benefit to this bank as It
would be to any bank, but anyone who thinks it highly profitable to
the bank handling it simply does not know what the expense of han
dling that business Is.
"There is one feature of the drawing of this $400,000 check on
our bank which is of real interest not only to bankers but to all the
people of New Mexico. It shows an enormous increase in the rev
enue the state is deriving from its lands. Those of us who are fa
miliar with the transactions of the land office have been amazed at
tbe growth of the income for the state. If the operation of the state
land department and the administration ot our lands is continued
upon its present efficient basis it Is only a matter of a little time un
til our schools and practically all of our public institutions will be
maintained very largely from tbe income from state lands alone, thus
lifting a heavy load from the taxpayers. In the eleven months of
this year the income from state lands has reached nearly $700,000 00.
The time is now very near at hand when this Income will be over the
million dollar mark each year."
legislature, following statehood, which
permitted the land commissioner to
put into operation a broad-guage busi
ness policy in the handling of state
lands, and allowing their use in the
most practical way, while at the same
time effectively safeguarding them
from depreciation or unwise sales.
Third, to the hard-headed business
administration which Mr. Ervien has
given to the state's land business,
from the most minute detail of of
be very close to $SDO,000, and may 1 ,1CB PpraIIon P -to transactions sucn
posslblv exceed that amount The In-! as the recent oi lease- which Involves
large areas unu wuica may result in
come enjoyed by New Mexico from
Its state lands has almost doubled
Within a single year.
Close observers of the development
of the state's land holdings, and of
their administration attribute the
huge Increase In revenue of the past
two years to three general causes.
These are, first; general develop-
huge income for the state and Its
schools, practically without effort or
expense.
The administration of the public
lands by Mr. Ervien bas been remark
able in that It has been almost en
tirely free from criticism even from
political opponents. During the en-
ment of the state. Increased demand tire period of nearly ten rears while
domain wulch have been made luring sionpr onl' " "ittcisms
the period of Mr. Ervlen's adminis- i have bpen di?ec,ed ainst his admin
(ration, making the lands possible of tttrative policies. One of these Is
ready lease and sale. 'that a too great number of large
Second, to tfcs general act of the leases hare been made.
A Policy Which Justifies Itself.
The answer to the first of these
criticisms, which has now practically
ceased to be heard, as the wisdom of
the commissioner's general policy has
become recognized. Is found in the an
nual reports of the state land office,
which show that the total acreage un
der what are termed "small leases,"
2,000 acres or less, is considerably
greater than Is the total acreage held
under "large leases," as used in the
department to designate leases of
20,000 acres or more. The Income
from leases which has made the
state's lands produce a revenue far
beyond the greatest amount hoped for
by anyone within twenty years after
statehood, and which will make avail
able for schools during the next year
or two not less than a million dollars
a year, is he final justification ot the
teneral pc.tcy of the land commission
er, which Is to make the most ad
vantageous disposition of tb lands
for purpo es of securing cash revenue,
without injuring the vain at the
lands. i
I The Deposit Fund Criticism.
Tho other criticism which has been
directed against the land department
during Mr, Ervlen's administration,
, has arisen very recently, and Is due
j to a condition over which he has had
no control. In order to insure good
faith on tho part of persons applying
for selections of slate lands for pur
chase, the necessity for a deposit to
insure performance of the contract,
when the selection had been approved
by the federal government, was ob
vious. Tbe approval of state land se
lections In the department of the In
terior at Washington during the pres
ent administration has been painfully
slow; so slow at times as to give an
impression ot deliberate delay and
possible obstruction. Because of these
delays in approval of selections, the
deposits by intending purchasers have
run up to nearly $750,000. These
funds are not state funds. They are
the property of the prospective pur
chasers and are held by the Land
Commissioner In the same way that a
certified check is held by an archi
tect from a contractor bidding on a
piece ot construction. They are trust
funds which the land commissioner
has no other power than merely to
keep in safety. This has been done
by depositing these funds in banks all
over the state which have been will
ing to make the necessary surety
bonds to properly protect the deposits.
Not all banks have been willing to
take In these funds since the period
of their holding is uncertain, depend
ing entirely on the time when the In
terior department may see fit to ap
prove the state's selections of land ap
plied for.
The attorney general of the state
has ruled that the Land Commission
er has no option but to keep those
funds just as he is now keeping them,
and the United Plates attorney for
New Mexico, in a recent written opin
ion to tho attorney general at Wash
ington held with the attorney general
of the state. Thus tuure has been no
option on the part of tbe land commis
sioner but to continue the funds,
properly secured, us they have always
been held.
This criticism will very soon be re
moved through tbe operation of the
TO THE REPUBLICANS
OF NEW MEXICO
' OUR candidate for governor, TTnlm O. Utirsum. is running
like the leader of a landslide. From all parts of the state
reports are tho name. Sentiment lias turned definitely
and finally to iSursuin, and h.; and the liepublienu state ticket
are to be elected by a record-breaking: majority. Let every
Republican iu New Mexico, from this moment until tho polls
close on election day, bend his every energy to ranking that
majority overwhelming.
The election of Charles E. Hughes is curtain. The nation
is for him. Sentiment has turned to him throughout the coun
try, just as sentiment has turned to Hurstim in New Mexico.
The pcoplo are tired of inefficiency, of vacillation, of evasion
inrl weiikness They want a chanpe to strong, vigorous Amer
ican leaders, whose policies are definite and whose administra
tive ability is adequate
New Mexico mnsf not be behind the r 'st of the states in
support for Mr. lliiejn The Ilernoerats in New Mexico have
abandoned all hope of elntintr l)e linen or ,l'd ionald and hav!
ceased to defend the .McDonald iitiminisi ret ion. Tl.ey have
centered all their efforts on support for Wilson and for their
candidate for the Senate, A. A. .Tones. This desertion of their
state ticket creates a situation which all I'epublieans must
watch and puard asrnirrt This is our opportunity t make
New Mexico definitely and for all time a Kepnbliean stnfe.
See that every vote in your precinct and at your polluter place
votes the Republican ticket straight that Charles B. Hughes
and our candidates for the United States Senate and the House
of Representatives, get. every Republican vote.
The congressmen from New Mexico may determine the
political complexion of the next Congress. Remember that on
election day and see that every Republican vote goes for
Hughes and for men who will support his policies.
Ta8s the word alonsr to your friends. This is to be made
an overwhelming Republican victory. A half victory will not
do. A small majority will not do. It must be convincing snd
final. It must be big enough to place New Mexico in the Re
publican column for years to come.
To this end work every minute from now tintil election
day, and on election day go to the polls before they open.
Line up among trip early voters. Cast your vote early and
thereafter work at the polls in behalf of your national, your
congressional, your state and your county ticket. Make it a
clean sweep right down the line. Elect them all.
Remember that the Democrats are desperate. They are
ready to go to any length. Their last minute attacks will be
vicious. Their Inst minute efforts to distract you and deceive
you will bo po,unlly vicious. Just keep in mind that McDonald
and his administration have been tried by the people of New
Mexico and found wanting; and remember the assurance of
McDonald when he said "If E. C. de Baca is elected governor
of New Mexico he will inaks the same kind of a governor I
have been."
Remember all these things and do your duty to your party
and your state and your own best interests on November 7th.
REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATES
For Presidential Electors, H. .
Hammond, C. U Hill, Juan Ortis.
Three staunch Republicans ot New
Mexico. Votes for them mean votes
for Charles E. Hughes, Republican
candidate for president ot the United
States, and lor Charles W. Fairbanks,
Republican candidate for vice presi
dent of the United States.
For United States Senator, Frank
A. llubbell. One of tbe foremost busi
ness men of New Mexico. Mr. Hub-
i bell grew up in New Mexico and the
story of his success is tbe story of
I the growth and development of terri
! tory and state. Mr. llubbell bas in
vested 'lie fruits of his success in his
; slate; lie; money produced by bis big
eiiterprmc;, is circulated here. Now
Mr. Hubbi II'h suns may take up his
' business, and ins slate may have the
Liein In of iiU sound good sense and
his loyal interest in New Mexico and
I lis people la the Senate, of the United
j Stales. Moreover, he is thoroughly
Republican ami New Mexico needs to
send a Ilrpublicun to the Sonata to
j back up tho next president, Mr
Hughes, who is a Republican.
For Representative in Congress.
Benigno C. Hernandez. An efficient
and capable member of Congress)
whose splendid record there the past
two years clearly entitles him to at
other term. And it is as important
to elect a Republican member of tho
House ot Representatives as to elect
a Republican senator.
TOM COONEY
ANSWERS
UNCLE HARRY
WELL KNOWN M0G0LL0N
MINING MAN ADDS TO
HERRMAN STATEMENT.
SAYS BURSUM IS A PRINCE
AMONG MEN
Everybody in southern New Mcx-
man I have learned the true in
wardness of him through my own
and his true two friends, C. H.
Kirkpatrick and the Hon. Harry M.
Domrlicrty, both de case I. Harry
Ooughcrty Wis a life lo'ip Democrat.
Imt :i very broad-minded man, and
on my way to-Santa Fc I stopped
over t ) sc; him as lie was Cooncy
land Wrath (.rby's attorney for years.
At that time he told me all about
Pttrsutn's penitentiary affairs as war
den of the state penitentiary and
then said: "Tom. Bursum is as
innocent as an unborn babe of the
, foul charges which helped to de
feat him. I am his attorney, and I
, oiiKht to know." And Harry Dough
erty fmay his soul rest in peace)
was the soul of honor. I am for
ill. O. Btirsum because I know he
is honest and one of the bicrgest
men in New Mexico physically, nien-
For Governor, Holm O. Bursran.
Who came to New Mexico to earn hte
living when be was thirteen years)
old; who found time In the years oi
hard work building a modest fontuM
for bis family to study the problem
ot the people. He has dons much t
secure better roads, better schools
better government for New lfexloflk
He is tbe author of. the Bursum taa
law, providing a more just tax cods
for the people, reducing their taxes
although still providing sufficient re
enues for tbe states. He is the ao
thor ot the mine tax law, which ha
compelled the great mining corpora
I lions to pay more ot the expenses o;
stuts government. Mr. Bursum hai
become a successful business max
i and a thoroughly equipped student O.
I government through his own ability
study and hard work. His many ha
inun attributes and bis straitut-foi
! ward honesty lire natural trails.
I For Lieutenant Governor, W. EL
! Lindsey. A stalwart Republican from
tho eastern part of the stale, who will
make an eiliciciil lieuieuaut governor
: and presiding officer ot tbe Stat
I senate.
I:;nrt ftennrtinent HVKtom whlph tin.
poses of the lands as quickly as se- ,LU M,ows lom -""cy. "c is a tally and morally.
i,; ..i rr.i, , niunccr of the Motrollons. the Coon- I know all about the Tl. O. B. Min-
now held In trust will diminish ranld. ey milliner district bcinjr nam- Company of winch I nc e Harry .
For Secretary of State, Gilberto
Mirabal. Who has made a fine rec
ord as the bead of the accounting
department of the slate land office
and whose election will be a recogni
tion of the younger members ot the
Republican party.
! ,1.1. .1 j u ,l ,.. !,: .. 1 1I U. U.. MHNIKS ami lie I .Oi I.iv iiKiii.
..uu. iuib nine un, tun caiinui rcacn ""v "...v.. r,rsm pnv the WS.OtlO and
any Important total upain. prominent in the development of the mork nn t djte am! in nil thoe
in tne meaniime me wisuom or tne Mogoilons and was largely instrum
deposit requirement has been proven cntal in securing the interest if
over and over again. Quite recently ,,artit.s ; tile Qr-an mining dis
tho land commissioner paid into the trict of I)ona Ana county, out of
state treasury tho Finn of $12,000, which prcw the sale of the proper
realized from the forfeit of a single ties to the Phelps Dodec Co. Tom
served bocorro county in the state
legislature and exemplifies in his
daily life the highest ideals of good
citizenship. Here is Tom Cooney's
letter to tne editor ot this paper
this week, Mr. Cooncy graciously 1 , -, , ctatc
deposit, in a contract wherein the in
tending purchaser failed to complete
tbe purchase when the selection ap
plied for had been approved and had
been tendered to him for final pur
chase. A considerable number of
smaller forfeitures have been turned
Into the state treasury, making In the
aggregate an Imposing total.
A Working Business Man's Job.
The Job ot administering New Mex
ico's public lands Is no undertaking
for a man who cares for an easy life.
It Is a working business man's Job
and requires close and constant at
tention year In and year out. The de
tail handled through the department
ftocn years, more or less, has never
secured one rent in return and never!
a whimper from Mm. P.iirsinn is the
hct and createt Vrr ri'ive tdav.
Sli.uiM he losp this election he is the
same man he was five years aero. j
If yon rVein it worthy cnoneji you,
may publish this. I
Yonrs most tntlv. j
THOMAS COONEY.
For State Auditor, William O. Bar
gent. Uf whose record us territorial
Mnliter and then slule amliior sot
alone the Republicans, but all tho cltt
it lis of the stale may bo proud. Mr
Sargent should and will bo re-elocted.
For State Vrousurer, Gregory Taga.
A Itepubliean. a heavy taxpayer, a
busimss man of proven ability, Mr.
l'agu will fulfill the duties of office
ami compel the respect of everyone as
slate treasurer.
riving his consent for its publica
tion :
i
i Las Cruccs, N. M., Oct. 23rd.
Editor Silver Citv Enterprise,
! Silver City. N. M.
Dear bir : In vour last issue, the
LAND TO SETTLERS AT
DEMING LAST WEEK
At the state land sale that was
20th, I note that Uncle Harry Herr-'held at the court house on Monday
mann, our Grand Old Man of the morninp; by Captain Fred Mueller, a
Mo?ollons, refutes Gov. McDonald's ! total acreage of 40.47fi.25 was sold
charges as to the Hon. Holm O. Bur- for the sum of S125.90S 75. Accom
sum's recordthe expenditures on the panyinff Capt. Muc'li r was J. W.
old Bursum road from Magdalcna to March of the state land office, who
Mogollon. I cannot refrain from ex- assisted him in the holding; of the
is enormous. Its banking transactions pressing my appreciation of I ncie sale. , i
alone are far larger month by month parry's honesty and fairness at this AH of the land, with the exception
iui
,i,.n 4 1, ii ,,i . itime wncn sn many ucmncrais ana ot one scnooi section, wcin
moll honitB it- fi. 1,1 lo i, ,,,, a few Republicans, I regret to say) the school section, poinir to Tc"0 1-.
small banks Its field Is the whole ,are e' to k sient owi to'Mundcll for $10 per acre. The In
state, and the number of its clients ;the party )ash in an expression of lovvinc were the purchasers : Vic
Is Increasing by leaps and bounds, as their honest convictions. While scrv- torio 1 and & Cattle Co.. 47fi.'0 acres:
is indicated by the enormous In-'inir in the first statr. legislature and T. T. Hvatt. 33.1.55 acre: A. E.
creases in the revenues. endeavoring to represent my conn- oieer, II 1957 acres: W. H. Cook,
Land Commissioner Ervien has had l' in suc'' legislation as I deemed Du'iith. Minn.. 10.533.4 acre: V. W.
a thorough schooling in the work of iproper and just. I had occasion to Py'-ec. 1235 acres; H. I.. Kerr,
the department. He has given it his j"'",4 x K0eT !"' """J AlfonsJ.anno. 40 a;rry
. , . Uvhile he vetoed every bill I had A. P. il iams. 30. .i acre:: . H
entire and undivided attention since ;the honor of prescntin- for mv con- Tut'lc. .W.on acres: P.. 1. Tnttle. 40
he took the position. He brought to ! stitucnts of Socorro countv. yet hc'nrrcs; I.. M. Sclnventkcr, 320 acres;
it the judgment and ability of a man informed me two years "airo that A. G. Ha-rison. IfO acres; W. C.
of unusual grasp of large affairs, com-i his actions then were entire'y Hoover. 1C0 acres; A. G Kodolf,
bined with the unusual quality of through a misapprehension of the rA2 S acres ; Henry Yanoo. 320 acres ;
grasp of detail. He has added to this tllen needs of the county. I ven- K. F. Johnson. 100 acres; E. C.
,nninmii s 1,,.. ,i ..... Iture to say that he is strain lab- Green. 160 acres; Hi'l Pros., 3720
For Attorney (li te ral, Frank W.
Clancy. The line lawyer and publlo
man who has been attorney general
since statehood, following an honor
able service as territorial attorney
gene'al. The people of New Mexico
will feel proud to retain Mr. Clancy
at the head of the state's legal de
partment. For Superintendent of Public In
structlon, J. H. Wagner. An eminent
educator well fitted hy training ami
temperament to direct the state de
partment of education. Mr. Wagner's
excellent record as head of the Las
Cruccs and Santa Fe schools indorses
him for the state superintendency.
For Commissioner of Tubllc I-anii,
Robert P. Ervien The state official
whose careful adminis! ration of state!
lands has already provided a fine nest-:
et'g for the public schools; whose stic-l
cessful efforts, against the opposition
of a Democratic governor, to lest the
public lands for oil and pas may openj
up new riches to the commonwealth. i
Mr. Ervien Is a builder; he s'ands fori
.rogret-8 and efficiency in office, andj
should be re-elected. I
lands and of the state as a whole that
is profound, and an understanding of
the needs of the department and of
the state that is comprehensive. He
was one of the best equipped men in
the state for the job when he took it
nearly ten years ago, and In the in
tervening years be has acquired a
knowledge and an experience which
any man, no matter what his ability,
would require an equal time to ae
aim.
oring under a misapprehension m acres; J. A. I'ruett, p.TO.jJ acres. I
regards to II. O. Btirsum. Mc. is a Many prominent men were pres.!
likeable fellow and I surely could cnt at the sale, including H. A. :
not believe he would stoop to such astro, president of the Victorio
deeds simply to fill a position and I.and & Catt'e Co.. who came from;
that position a subordinate one. . Rakersficld, Calif., W. D. Murrav of ;
I have known H. O. Bursum for 'Silver Citv. E. A. Suppiffer of New I
twenty-five years and I venture to York, who owns one of the finest
say I never had the pleasure oft farms in the valley at Hondale and
meeting a nobler speciman of man-1 who is stocking it with some of the
hood in my whole life. A man with best breeds of cattle to be had. S.
a big frame, a biir brain, and aA. Birchfie'd of Tyrone, and many
heart of gold. Aside from what I others from different parts of the
know personally of this splendid state.
For Justice of the Supreme Court,'
Clarence J. Roberts. The distin-j
guifdied. clear-thinking Jurist who Is'
now chief Justice of the state supreme'
court and who unquestionably will be
re-elected by the people to the bench
from which he has so ably interpreted
the law since New Mexico was ad
mitted to tbe Union.
For State Corporation Commission
er, Malaquias Martinez. A succer
ful business man, successful public of"
ficial and prominent Republican whs
will give good service to the people,
as corporation commissioner.
