Kegtiuet
JVOL. LXXX.
MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, FRFDAY, NOVIDMJJER 3, 1010.
NO. 44
CHARTER DAY EXERCISES.
RBI'UIJMCAN RAMjY,
SIDE BY SIDB
with stylo and comlort, is the wondorful wear
that is promised for every pair of
DUTCHESS TEOUSEES
10c A BUTTON ; $1,00 A RIP
Tho Money Warranty backs up the claims and no logitimatc
demand for fulfilment ever went unsatisfied.
You'll be pleased with your first pair and it won't be the last.
Hundreds and thousands of wearers know them as the best
in value, comfort and sarvice.
IVES & SHAMBO
COIIII HLOCK
Middlebury, Vermont
hshions OF DIST1NCTI0NS
In preparation for the social season, New
Wraps, Coats, Gowi.a, Suits and all the charming
accessories of dress are now shown in selections
marked by originality and good taste.
VVe are showing an extensive assortment of
Fine Furs i.'duding Mufls, Scarfs, Capes and
collarettes at reasonable prices,
You Never Pay IVIore at Dyer's
Makes Hard Work Easy!
DUSTING, cleaning and polishing hardwood floors is hard, back-breaking
work. An almost ncver cndinR task and seldom satisfactory the old way.
Hnt t ic Mev nntrlr nnrl Mt!sf.irtnrv tli miv vv.tv tKinrr thp O.CVilrir
Polish Mop. With it you can spend a few minutcs doing wliat it now takes
you almoit ball a diy. You tmply pas tbe O-Ccdar I'oluu Mop orcr tbe floor and tvery pacticle of
duit and illrt is lakcn up and iicU. 1 oe r.oor I! clvcn a tiard, durable, ustln; poluu and dmid.
0fefMP
It iIjo awd for tlicdustinc and clcaninf of Ibe tops of Mth furnlturc, betfften
tnc tanuicr) o! tbe stalrt and ls 10 madc Ibat you can sti 10 tbe lar corncr
under tbe bed, bencatb tbe radiator and otbet bard-to-cct-at places.
It cuts bouse work in balf.
Don't put upuitb tbe old-fashloned
bard way when )ou can cet an 0Cedar
Polish Mop foronly il.50.
Satiafaction Guarantccd
or Money Refunded
Try an O-Cedar I'oiiih Mop
for tut days at our nsk.
Tcst it eiery way lor two
days and if you are not
drliebted with it we will
promptly retutn your
money,
Sold by
JOHN H, STEWART
I Makes J Jm"
"Hitch YourWagonloaStar"
was good advice, but the wagon containing the
prices of commodities must have been hitched
to a meteor. We are retarding its progress at
present but it will get away from us eventually.
A lot of things at the
OLD PRICES
while they last
F. C. DYER CO.
" Tlic Bijj Storc "
Salisbury, Vermont.
I
Obiorvnnco of 110th Annlvorsnry
In MoCullouoh Gymnuslum
Tho 110th nnnlvornnry of tho BlgnlnR
ofthu origlnnl chnrter of Middlebury
Collego wns obsorved by tho nnnunl
chartor ilny exorclsefl In tho McCul
lough gymnnsium Wednesdny nlght,
Novembor 1, with n Inrgo nttondnnco of
townspcoplo nnd collego HtudontH.
Tho progrnm of tho exorclsos wiib ns
follows:
Orchestra Bclection, "Militnry Spirlt"
Von Hlon
Rendinir of tlic Chnrter,
Hnrold E. Hollister, '17
Selcction by tho collego cholr, "To'lheo
0 Country," Ichburg
Remnrks, Pres. John M. Thomns
A Symposium: Whnt Cnn Wo Do to
Mnko This Middlebury 's Hest Yenr?
In Academlc StnndnrdH,
Wlllinm II. Edmunds, '17
In Quickonlng Every-dny Reflpoiifli
bility, LucySmlth, '18
In Rollgious Work,
Hnrold M. Dnvis, '17
Orchestrn aelection, "I.ustsplel,"
Kolcr Bcln
In College Loynlty,
Richnrd II. Buirum, 18
In Conflicting Loynltica,
Kathorine Ilnll, '17
In Our Cnmptis Life,
Fred I'. Lnng, '17
Orchestra scloction, "Dawn of Love,"
Ilendix
Romnrks, Dr. Julmn W. Abcrnolhy, M
President Thomns snid thnt it wns n
privilpRo to hnvo inumbership in so old
nn institution, tho twenty-seventh in
order foundid in ovcr six hundrod insti
tutions of c'ollogo rnnk in thu Unitfd
Stntes. Ho snid that too little wns
known of tho history of the collcgo and
the part it hnd played in the history of
Vermont. A skotch was givcn of the
vnrious nttctnpts to start educntionnl
institutions in Vermont, nnd nn iuter
esting fnct thnt wns new to mnny is
thnt nt the timeof foundinc Middlebury
College and for n nutnber of yenrs lnter
Middlebury is the most ideal locution in
the State forsuch nn institution havinu
twice the population of HurlinKton nnd
a large proportion of college graduates
as inhnbitants eomjiarcd to othercities
in the State. The logislnturc met in
Middlebury in 1S00, and nfter much dis
cussion voted to jjrnnt a clmrter to the
colleue. At that time the "Addison
County Grammar School", which was
located in the villnge, wns KiviiiR two
yenrs of college work, but the pupils
entered the colleRe nnd in 1802 n scnior
cluss of one mnn graduated. In the
first forty years of her history Middle
bury was one of the leadint? colleRes of
New EiiRlnnd, so her phenomennl
growth of the past few years is n riRht
ful regaininjf of her originnl stnnding
among the larger colleges.
At the conclusion of the remarks by
President Thomns he introdueed the six
speakers from the student body who
spoke on various phnses of eollege life
with reference to mnking this Middle
bury's best year in each.
Dr. Abernethy gave a very interest
ing talk on the college activities and
the relative values of studies nnd other
interests which play so large a pnrt in
college life. He snid that n conspicuous
fnct of college experience is thu faculty
of college students not for lenrning, but
for forgel ting. Many forget whnt they
come to college for, and dnft through
in an aimless way. If they are not
awnkened to the responsibility of life
during their college career their chances
of succeeding in lnter life nre smnll.
An itueresting simile tie drew wns
likening college to n moving picturo for
diversity. One of the present day
criticisms of the play is that the scenery
is so elaborate that we miss the real
plotof the play, aa in a circus it is
diflicult to find the main tent in the
many surrounding side shows. so also
we miss the main issue in college in
the multitude of other interests.
Briefly "college life is more of a success
than college education."
Dr. Abernethy then urged more in
terests in the intellectual side of the
college, pointing out the big advan
tages which follow later if one does
center his purpose on intellectual pur
suits. The college orchestra and choir fur-
nished several selections during the
progrnm, and the cheer leaders led tho
student body in several rousing Middle
bury yells. a
Bonutor Dllllnaham and Lleut.
Cushlng Atldrooi Audlonoo,
A good-Hlzod nudlonco gnthorcd In tho
town hnll WcdnoHilny ovonlng to llaton
to Hon. Wlllinm V, DllllnRlinm nnd
Meut. John T. CubIiIiir, edltor of tho
St. Albnnfl MoaBongor, dlacuss tho
Ibbucb of tho present cnmpnign, Judgo
John E. Wooks prcslded,
Mr. CtiBhlnR, who recontly roturned
from Eaglo I'orh, Toxns, whoro ho was
with tho KirBt Vermont rcgimont, waB
tho flrat anonker. IIo Biild ho wna not
hero to talk of lifo on thu bnrdcr, but
took up Stntoand nntlonnl iasuoa. IIo
showod how I'rcBldent WIlBon hnd not
kcptua out of wnr nnd quoted from
Chlof Juatico Mnrahnll on tho protcc
tion of Amoricans In foreiRn countriea
when thoy observo tho Iiiwh of thnt
country nnd ro pencefully nbout their
btifllnesH.
Senator Dlllinghntn In oponlng spoko
feelingly ot tho lato Gov. John W.
Stownrt. who two yenrs ngo introdueed
him to a Middlebury nudienco, nnd of
their long and Intimnto ncqunintnnco,
IIo took for his aubicct tho tariif nuea-
tion. Ho said tho detuocratic narty is
a freo trado pnrty and nlwnya will be n
free trado party. It hnsndopted tnriff
schedulca withoutn henring nnd with-
out the nid nnd advice of n tnriff com-
missimi nppointcd to secure in a scien
tific manner facts relating to protectton,
IIc told of tho nrosnerity which this
country hiiH cnjoycd under the rcpub
liemi government during the last sixty
yenrs and oxnressed tbe hopo that tho
votcrs would cohtinue in that prosperity
which they hnd ho long enjoyed. Hotlj
spcnkors wero benrtily nnd frc(Uently
npplaudcd.
ORCHARD DEMONSTRATIONS.
For pome timo the county ngent lins
been arranging for orchard demonatra
tions. This work will take in pruning,
which will be donc this fnll, sprnying
nextajiring, cultivntion nnd fertilizntion
next summer, nnd grnding nnd pnck
ing the fruit next fnll. This is
a Inrgo project nnd one thnt should
be of vitul interest to nenrly all tho
fnrmers of Addison county. This js
one of the big fruit counties of the
Stnte, nnd at the present time there
nre severnl men growing fruit on n
commercinl bnsis. There nre, howover,
thousnnds of npple trees thit are losing
money for tbe farmer. These should
either le removed, or be s.i bandled
that they produce a profit. Anybody
who is interested in tbe propcr hnndling
of fruit trees should attend one of the
llruning demonstrations to be cnrried
on during the weck beginning Novem
bor 12. Itiaprobnble thnt an expert
will be employod to assist the county
acent in this work. The dates of the
pruning demonstrations nnd tho places
where they will be lielil will appear in
next week's issue of this paper.
CIIURCH CONFERENCE.
In spite of unfavorable weather con
ditiona nenrly every Congregational
church in Addison County was repre
scnted at the Tercentenary conference
held at the Middlebury Congregational
church Wednesday. Dr. Herring of
Boston, secretaryof thenational council
of Congregational churches, and Dr.
Atkinson, secretary of the Departmcnt
of social service, conducted the confer
ence. The Tercentenary program which
the denomination has adopted was fully
explaincd, and its practical application
to the work of the Addison County
churches waa discussed. Suggestions
were mnde and plans adopted with n
view to the further development of the
progrnm in the churches of the county.
ATTEN'D DISTRICT MEETING.
Several mcmbers of Arrowannn Re
bekah lodge, No. 15, of Middlebury
went by automobile to Burlington Fri
day evening to attend the district meet
ing of the order and were entertained
by Antonin lodge, Nu. 11, of Burling
ton. The degree work was dono by
Bontrice lodge, No. 60, of Bristol. A
bnnquet wns served from 5 to 7:30.
Miss Cnrrio Damon, I N. G., responded
to the address of welcome. Those of
tho party were Mrs. Ezra Turner, Mrs.
G. E. Abbey, Mrs. G. M. Grady, Mrs.
Florallooker, Mrs. S. Harrington and
Miss Carrie Damon.
AUTOI'SY PERFORMED.
Owing to the cireumstancea under
which tho body of Charles Burgor of
Weybridge was found an autopsy was
held Thursday, nfter arrangements had
twice been made for the funeral.
Dr. B. H. Stonc of Burlington, repre-
senting the btute laboratory, conducted
the autopsy. The following Middle
bury physicians were present: Dr. E. II.
Martin, Dr. M. II. Eddy, Dr. S. S.
Eddy, Dr. R. W. Prentis and Dr. P. L.
Dorey. No stntement wns given out.
UNION SERVICES.
The third in the series of Sunday
evening services, in which the Me
morinl Bnptist, Congregntionnl and
Mothodist churches are uniting, will be
held in the Congregational church on
Sunday evening at 7:30. Rev. R. E.
Whittemore of the Memorial Bnptist
church will prendh. These Union ser
vices seem to becommending themselves
to the entire community. A Inrge con
gregntion greeted Dr. Benton two
weeks ago and it is expectod that the
November services will be equally at
tractive and helpful. On Sunday even
ing, November 19, Rev. George E.
Horr, president of Newton Theological
Institution, will preach at the Memorial
Baptist church. Next Thursday evening
the three churches unite in a midweek
nrayer meetincr at the Methodist
church.
FARMERS' MEETING.
The next meeting of the Farmers'
club will be held in the Cady district
school house Tuesday evening, Novem
ber 14. At this meeting n hve subiect
will be discussed, -that is the present
milk situation. Further notice will be
given in next week's paper, naming the
speakers.
JUSTICE TICKET FILED.
The following ticket has been agreed
upon and filed for justices of the peace
to be voted upon nt next week's election:
Ira H. LaFleur, John E. Weeks, George
N. Shambo. Georce J. Hodces, Milo K.
MoorG, Fred G. Brookins, William H. i
Sheldon, Fred M. toote, Clarence U
Wells, and Albert W. Dickens.
Reliable Remedies for
Cold Weather Ailments
Fall Is a season of changcable weather. Wet fect and cx
posurc to tlic cold causes atulden attacks ofillness.
Sore Throat, Colds, Coughs, La Qrippe,
Catarrh, Neuralgia, Earache, Croup,
and many other ailments are usually causcd by such cxposure.
The mcdicine chest should l)c storcd with reliable remedies
which will cnablc you to readily combat minor ills.
You'll find the Rcxall Remedies most reliable and cffcctive.
Makc out your list and bring it in, or let us hclp you in mak
ing selections,
Sheldon's Rexall Store
Ol'l'OPtTi: THK 1'OST oitici:
II. A. SHELDON, 1813. W. II, SHELDON', 1010.
"Comfy"
OliJU I
Dont Go Barefoot
Around the Room v
Gct the "Comiy" fclt slippcr habit
Slip into your "Comfys" and save
your bare (ect Kcep a pair at
your bcdside, in your locker, and
carry a pair in your gnp. Kick
into thcm ; wear them to tlic bath
and around the room until you are
ready to put on your shoo.
$1.50
Men's Comfys
Oxford Cray
Ladies' Comfys
All Colors
Children's Comfys
$1.00
75c and
"C A "C T7 A TVT Q Succcssor to
Hlliltllcl)iir-,
" tUe QCALITY SIIOE STORE "
Pnone :!'.'-i2
Vcrmoiit
Don't Spend Your Strength in Saving
the Price of a
HOOSIER
Women so often leel that it is economy to do without labor
saving equipment that they try to save the small price of a
Hoosier. When a tew dollars thus invested will systematize
kitchon work so that it can be done easily and in half the time.
Delightful to Work at the Hoosier
You will rind it delightful to sit down at the Hoosier and do
your cooking comfortably. It will help you get good meals
quickly. It will help you tidy up in just a few minutes after
meals.
D. S. PEASE
Furniture,
Middlebury,
Phone 66-2
Undertaking.
Vermont
ADDISON COUNTY'S LARGEST DEPARTMENT STORE
WARM WINTER UNDERWEAR
Complete Lines For All the Family Aro Now Ready
VI 1 tlic New Stylcs Com plcte AHBortinciits Un
usunl VnlueH
SPLENDID ASSORTMENTS OF CORRECT MODELS IN
COATS, SUITS, DRESSES. SKIRTS AND WAISTS
All priced nt conaiderably less than we expect tooffer on futuro arrivals.
Positive fiivlnna nre nsaured the enrly buyers this season.
Sca.sonablc nicrclinndlsc nt niost Favornblo Prices
Advantageous early buyin pernuts us to save our customers much of
tlie high prices prevailing today tliroiigliout the wholesalemarket.
Notnuly Attractivc Prices nnd Fiuc Vnricty
Aiuoiir: UlaiikctH, Coinfortablcs
ntid Quilts.
OUR SHOE AND RUBBER DEPARTMENT NEVER MORE
COMPLETE
MIDDLEBURY SUPPLY CO.
Tlic Storc Thnt Sntl9flcs
Laznrowiiz Block Fornierly Cliiipinan Block,
Telephono No. 62-2
Middlebury, :: Vermont
