In
THE
KENNA
ECORD.
VOkiO. KENNA, CHAVES COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1910. NO. 38.
Department of the Interior
Untied Stows Lnnd ORIes. Roswell. New
ilemlro, Sept. 30, l'US.
Notice In hereby Riven Hint ' lie stole of New
Mexico, under the nrovhlons nMtic Aots of
Connreita OlWoVcrt Jitrte ji, 18 itntl rfiltie SO.
IHO) nnd aotsiniiplenientarjr rtnd mnerifidtory
thereto. Ma tiled In till omce JcIpcI m lists for
Ule" fdlloWlntfdfiier'.btfd iiiHflS:
LiU NO. TlTl. Serinl Jitt. r5538.
sM.V Wk. SNF.! Seo SlT. 7S.lt. 38 E.l
ft . t.i jer. 0 ere3.
.Jrrotet,oR cjptwv.i;i"nt. a$ or oil of
uch Bi'ldctions mil y be filed tii tills oftlre dur.
Inn the period of publication hereof, or nt ny
time before final certiorate.
Knimeit Patton. Ileitltcr.
Oct S7-Nov. J4.
v 0T1CE FOR ITVLIC VTIOJi.
-onCol 0110.V)
Department of the Interior, U. S
ivliil(7flibt!;sb1t.S'imtSrBJ.,t.. jSettt. n. itw.
ttbili-e" i9 hfcrciiy feitbii ihnt fVrnnk P.
Genell, of Kenun. N. W., who on Nov. 1. ,1013,
made homes' end No. 0111 .'.o, for NF.K See. IS.
T. i it. K., and NWM. Seo. 7. Township 6
S.. It. 30 E.. N. M. P. Meridian, has filed notice
of intention to make Finnl Three Year Prool
to estiUillsh claim to the land above described,
before Dan ". Savaite. U, S, Cummlss'oner. In
hit ollice at Kenna, N. M., on the S8th day ol
November, 1018.
Claimant names as witnesses:
John M. Mlms. Unrl H. Priewa. Prank Park
or, William P. Llttlertelfl. all of Ketlna. N. M.
A: it. Kvatis, Ilekister.
Jf-N 84
NOTICE FOB rCBLICATIOX
OSTOOS
Department of the Interior, V 8. Lane
Office at Roswell, N. M.. Sept. 11. 1916.
Notice Is hereby given that Mnnervla M
nuercklin, of Klklns, N. M., mother of Charlie
H. Buercklln. deceased, who on Nov. 21, 1013
made HD.fi.. Serial No. 07996, for EM, Sec
10, township 7 S.. It. ID K., N. M, P. Meridian,
has Ad notice of Intention to make Final
Three Tear proof, to ostftlilMi Claim to the
land above described, before J.tr. Cairoll. I'
R. CntnlbtssiotlHr. iu his Uftiee. at Elklns. N
M., iH NoVKHlolli.
(Mlfflarit names as witnesses:
,,Alj'fert SLjtlall; dciir jtMorrison. William
U. Mulin, l nomas a, nenncrson, an oi r.mins,
N. M.
Kmmett Patton. Kevlsler.
Oct. J7Nov. t4
Notice tor Publication.
0J7W0
Department of the Interior, U. 8. Lane
Office at Roswell, N. M.. Oct. 12, 1010.
Notice Is hei eby itlven that Owic L. Fulton.
of N'.W Moiie. Ni M..Mrmerl)r Owie Tucker,
Who. OB Nov, B. I"tts, made 1ID. E.. Serial No.
MT-KW. for NKSWK. Sec. 10! and SHSWW
SHSEXi Lots I ft , Section 3. Township e-S.
Rsntre 36 E.. N. M. P Meridian, has Hied notice
of Intention to make final three-year proof, to
establish claim to- the land nboYB described,
before Oi E. TooHibS U, 8. ('oritmlssioner, in
his of lice, at New Holie, N. Mi. on Nov. 16
!
(Mailhant flahifeB as witnesses:
Hibblrd D. Fulton. John E. Burns, Thomas
N. Tucker, William E. Burns, all of New Hope
Emmet t Patton.
Oof. SO Nov. 17. Ueif'ster.
NOTICE FOR PUllMCATIOTT.
depart merit ot the Interior. U. S. Land
Office at llosweM, N. M., Sept, S, 1916.
Notice tstereby itlven tlint Kada H. Klcli
aHlsbrli of Onrrlsjn, N. M who on Oct. ST. 1013,
made HU. K., Serial No- 27911, for IjOt. 4, Sec
i: Lots 1-1. Sec. 8: NEU. Sec. 7; XWHNWM
Section H, Township 8.. Hanire 37 E N. M. P.
Meridian, has filed notice of intention to make
Final three year proof, to establish claim to
the land above described, before Will A. Pal
mer, U. S. Commissioner, In his office, at
Kedland, N. M., on Nov. ft. 1916.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Ezra E. Bauirh, Ci"rze L. Swearlnidn
James S. Swearingin. John D. Pruit. all of
tljrrlsoD, N. M.
Emmett Patton, IteKlster.
Oct. 8 Nov. 7.
Notire for Publication.
017669
Department of the Interior, U. S.
Land Offloe at Roswell, N. M... Sept- S8. 1916.
Nottoe is hereby given that William H
Carroll of Kichland, N. M who, on Aug. It
IVli. made HO. E.. Serial No. 027669. for
Section it. Twp. 6 8..K. 3i E., N. M. P. Merl
dlan, bat llled notice of Intention to ikalte
final tluree-year proof, to establish clntm to
the li nd above described, before C. E Toombs,
U. S Commuisioner. In his office, at Richland
N. M , oa Nov 11, 1016.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Arthur M. Carroll, Ben). F. Hlnsley. these of
New Hope, N- M., Charles It. Peek, T. Le.
Keeman, these of Richland, N.M
EMMETT PATTOV,
Oct.6-Nov. 3. Renlster.
V
Don't forget to go out and
vote next Tuesday.
WOODROW WILSON
President of tLe United Stated
Willi'
u v-. : '. 'it
7 J
ft a 'w
tV.- rf V. "..".. . J
9
"HE HAS KEPT US OUT OF WAR"
TtiU is the tac6 6t a man strong, codrageoua,
patient and kindly, a man
Always alert to the aspif aliens ot his fellow
man and sympathetic toward their fulfillment;
Never complacent toward tha encroachments
of privilege hot tolerant of social wrong
Always seeking td enhance the dignity of
labor and better the stale of the toiler;
Never lending an ear to the sop'.rstry cf ex
ploitation or the blandishments of expediency;
Always patient to hear and weigh, to ap
praise and analyze, and passionate to find the
way of right;
Never premature in purpose nor prejudiced
in judgment, and neVer headlong in decision
Such is WOODROW WILSON.
THE NEW TRUST.
It Is nil over lint I lie '.'!lf!j''-nn.l tlierf. Wilson for Four Inri More?
Pour yenrs more tif pence tintl prosper! wlilt lh( yvlieelx of (be nutlou
drive on towunl our destined unl World Lead'efsoipl
That Is to be our destiny.
JfottllftjJ can Mop It lillt n return to the rrnctloimry party wlil'h for forty
years snvetl lt tikh4"' luieoti while (ho people, the grent American people,
Mfn'iiKlefl fimviirfl toward iMdlvliluiil nmt rolleciive freedom.
Vcft, lie ffittiiih fanie Into Hn own not because hut In uplte of the Repub
lican I'lirly. It ttfi tile Amerirnn people who eleiu'ed the forests, (Iraineil the
swiinips, hln.ed the tniiM, o)e((ert tlie mines, ting the coal ami the K'l.
Ula'' 'be pntirleK inlo wheat ami coin tli'lds, nin1! feiR'etl in the great plalua
tor cut tie.
The American people, rtvrHiti; from' the loins of Mft wfcrr ttarrd m
Votnen who tolled, have laid the fol0tloi- of (he grenreKt EeimM-l trwiwi!
to liNtoi''.!1, ri raised thereon the fairest flower of elvill.nlifi to uU -lit
world.
All this bus been done (fe' the luiiidlcap- of Polillcal Kowses- uu
usurious toll of Predatory Interests'.
While the Pioneer grew Into tlie Settler" Mtt tin Si-lfl'er bfnni t.W
I'anner mid. yellowed the van" plnlntf with' tlW bearteftj gvnl tin! tmwa
them with tlt(' niKHet corn:
Willie barefooted chiltlreiv truVlijed' dlowrv" flte sliudy Ian over tlie kine
bill to (he little red school hoil'so to1 read1 of ll'rt? wistlom of fher KfiiJacrUis
Frii ftk Mi, ,t,be pntrlotlsrii of their Patiict tifuff. t(W IftKemtrlty tit their Uobert
Fulton, Kli U'Mrfef', rimf hoberf Hoe, tlie ilellH.THCy of trw-ir Jefferson, ctf
the only Washington woo' i'Htiietcd tiH country, of fnnortl liucoln wlu
saved, and whose spirit will forev'et 1fe the nut km
While these little children mound the: sroVe wtni; "fy fonrjlry. 'It
of Thee, Sweet Land of Liberty"
While these same little children at night at their lilothe' fcnee Ienrnel
to bow their heads to their Cod who bad given them blrlb (ff fti.JUinrl vC
the Free and the Home of the Hrave
While simple men Kweated mid toiled on and loved their worfc sn.l
their home and their country
While veet faced molhers delved In toll and pan xtrong nien to do th
uatlon's work:
'.( ft'epf fort li clad In frock coats anil a well disi,mle) ?kln and ur
oily tongue, &f!d PlUtoiy, xurely, Insidiously gathered up the frfl tit ll
sweat and the harvest o' f'e ftebls, orcliards and mines, and by -erfof
privilege, by fraud, by bribe, by griff?,- fr1d;ery. by l:navery, by treuclirry.
yes, and by treason, caused themselves id ttvuiii? fbe rlebest clique known
In the world's history.
The core of this clhpie Is the permanent Inner ring", tfcf InvbWMc Gov
ernment of the Republican Party.
Tills clique, disagreeing on a candidate four years ago, fell nt. ir
the American people came back Into their own under the leadership of WowV
row Wilson, who has held Inviolably sacred that trust thus put Into Ills hand
by Fnte, And by the grace of Ootl the American People propose to go oil
with tliat tried, true, itrent man who trusts them hucanse he knows they
trttst til ni,
- Woodrutv Wilson Is n new Trust In America greater than nl! others
greater because be Mann's for no Trust, la bucked by n Trust, and tn kr
candidate of no Trust, but fa t"c irttxt (tf the whole American people, vrfw
love him because he has kept them nwt f ti-ftf.. honor blm for bis courageou
ciiii.tftft humanlly. and thank him for his brond MsfewMansbip and bis fear-,
less, Intelligent Je-fldershlp.
IJy his deeds and by ill srtl, as well as by the eilcfnlex he Uan made
his place In the roll of American" ftimor l secure Washington. Lincoln. VI
son.
Wood row Wilson deserve tht vote of vry man and every woman In
very tte In the Union. j
PRESIDENT PLEDGES
GREATER PROGRESS
Laws Must Fit New Life Mr.
Wilson Tells the American
People.
HIS RECORD OF DEEDS DONE
U. S. RiflhU Upheld With Honor,
Farmer! Aided, Busineso and Labor
Benefited, Children Protected
Women's Votes Needed.
Shadow Lawn, N. J.. Oct. 'JX. To
the American people Wood row Wilson
today gave un accounting of his ad
ministration as their President. IL
"balanced his books" so that tlie rec
ord Htunds clear. Promises fnliilled,
great deeds done! That, In short,
tells the story. And yet tlie story
Is not finished. Other chapters in the
gi I p,ool: of Unman Progress re
main to lie wrlllcn. It rests with
you, American Voters, to say whether
l he mall who began the book shall
linish II, .
Here, In the PreHidelit's own
words, Is a plain statement of what
he, as leader not only of tlie Heliio
crntic parly, but of the nation, has
accomplished In your behalf and of
what be plans for your future a
Muicmcut made not nlone to the thou
sands who Journeyed here, but to you
ami Hie hundreds of thousands
throughout the country who celebrat
ed "Wilson Iiiy."
THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
"My I'YIIow-cilizeiis :
"This Is called "Wilson Day' only
because for six years, lirst as Cover-
nor of New Jersey and then as Presi
dent of the Fulled Slates, I have been
i.einiltted to lead first a great stalt
and then a great national party along
tlie ways of progress and of enlarged
and regenerated life which our people
bad so long sought and so long been
lield back from by the organized
power of selli:i I merest, and because
the great honor lias fallen to nie of
being chosen once Moi'e spokesman
and representative of the men who
mean In bold the country to these
whys' of icacv, htinuinlty and progress.
It is of these forces that I shall speak
and not of myself, who ani merely
their servant.
"What are these forcesT Whence
lo tbey spring? What have they ac
tics of I be world, bad begun to t1uy
a part which could not be played by
provincials, but must b played by dll-:
en of the great world of nations. '
And yet we bud not altered our policy
or our paint of view. The great
1.. .. ....... t,lt Ull-V0ll It t I Ml tit tit
,.tt..i...A .,. ..I. I. I hole tiro. I r.oM'pt-uM
i-umiHis....... v.... . - , w us ,US OIle t , njf, that me won.1
Bftinthf ftbd .tn1.ose f.rr the fafure l tM b
it is plain wnai uiej ri-( mrj vn
Ihe forces of humane, righteous, ami
patriotic purpose which Imve sprung
up In our day In the minds of those
who perceive the shortcomings of the
law as It has hardened In America
and who look forward with purpose
nnd conviction lo n new. age In which
government shall be Indeed the
servant of liberty nnd not of privi
lege, "These" fli'P men who perceive that
American law liuf not kept pace
with American sentiment; that oui
law has been holding us rigid ami
immovable, until class has begun. In
free America, to be arrayed against
class; until what was legal has begun
to play u more lniortant part In our
thoughts and determinations than
what is human and right; and until
America has begun to lag Instead of
lead In reconciling what Is with what
ought to be.
, Dawn of New Age.
"A new uge bail dawned upon us
while those who were attempting to
lead us were stumbling along with
their beads over their shoulders, In
lent upon preserving the conditions ot
u day that Is gone. America bud
changed and the whole world bad
changed. ur commerce and Industry
had grown to such a bulk that the
domestic markets of which our for
mer leaders were always so solicitous
were glutted and we were bound, un
less we were to burst our Jacket,
to find a free outlet Into the markets
of the world. The time had come
when our commerce needed freedom
und would be throttled by further re
ftrnlnts. "We had ucquired foreign posses
sions, bad been drawn Into the poll-
cotne ut once too big a world and
too little a world to submit Itn des
tinies to the hostile rivalries and am.
bitlons now of this and uguln of that
member of the great family of men;,
too compact, too Intimate In Its con
tacts, too universal In Its way of
Intercourse, to make It any longer
possible to limit the effects of any
nation's action to a ntngle. separate
sphere where the rest would bo un-.
touched."
"An Inevitable partnership of Inter
ests has been thrust usm the nations.
They are neighbors and must accom
modate their Interests to one auothcr,
or else disturb the lives and embarrass
the fortunes of men everywhere. Kr
wonder that In such un age moo lu
America should lie cried awake n1
feel once more, as they felt them In
Ihe day when Ibelr great republic
was set up, t be compulsions of hu
manity and of Justice:
Squaring Laws With Life.
"There are the freshening wind
blowing out of the bf oi luanklui
everywlere, thut have brought on
new day In American politics. Wo
have looked onco more very critically
at our own laws and our own prac
tices and have set about to square)
them with tno actual conditions of
our life and the life of the world."
"Four years ugo there were two
parties In the field whose programme
was conceived under the Inlluenee of
these great forces of progress und ad
justment, the Itemocralte party and
lite Progressive party. Thin year
there In but one, the iteuiofrutic party.
Iu the presidential election of four
years ago some III teen million viie
(Continued on last page)
