PAGES 1 TO 8
'OWOSSO THE CITY OF PU5H
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. NOV. 3, 1916.
FARUERS, LABORERS, STOP ! LOOK ! LISTEH ! THIIIK !
20,000,000 W0RKUEII TO C0OPETE WITH YOU
Voters of Whatever Party in Whatever Occupation a Terrible Crisis
Hanging Over You It Can Be Averted Only by the Election of
Chas. E,. Hughes and the Return to Protection.
is
Tuesday, November 7th, either Charles Evans Hughes or Woodrow Wilson will he elected president of the
United States. ..
Knt, Hnijlirs. or Wilson: not the MEN, hut what they STAND FOR, is the real question 'to be decided.
NOW is the time to STOP. LOOK. LISTEN, THINK. Farmers, laborers, voters of Shiawassee county, have YOU
taken time to consider, or are you of that number who say, "Well times are good, wages are high, crops are high,
.vprvthin- is limb. I'm all riirht. v hv should 1 consider the luture r' Do you say, don't care what makes
things hiirh. I onlv know thev arc high? Why should I worry?"
Michigan is credited with having a THINKING people. We believe our citizens are thinking men and women,
and to you, as thinking men and women, as men and women who will stand for their OWN BEST interests, wc
flppea . ... ... ii TT ArnTTTIn fl il Ti il TTl rTTTmmT ri-r nnnti
There is one sumect which oversnaaows aw vxnuno m ims campaign, ii is i-nia jrxv,uiXiUiiujx or ik..jj
. . " .i - i ii.. a; d i.it i n .
TRADE. No .other compares to tins, un us decision nungs me tjuesuun oi wneiner you snau prosper or not.
TJie Republican party, with Mr. Hughes as its leader, stands SQUARELY for Protection,,
The Democratic party, with Mr Wilson as its leader, stands' for the Wilson-Underwood Free Trade Bill.
The whole history of the Republican party supports ITS claim as the party of Protection.
The historv of the Democratic party supports the charge that IT is' the Free Trade party.
The present high prices for produce and labor cannot continue. Thpy are abnormal, they are exorbitant, they
mP iinnntnrnl. THEY ARE THE D1K-UT tiaujui ux xius ujk.a.t jUKurtiA WAi.. When that war
ceases there will be an AWFUL COLLAPSE unless something is done to prevent it.
Voters, don't deceive yourselves. It takes no prophet to foretell the result. Anyone who will stop to think
will be ABSOLUTELY SURE of it.
When the Democratic party came into power, four years ago, you were ALL prosperous. There were no hard
times anywhere.
Woodrow Wilson at once forced the passage of the Free Trade Underwood tariff law by which the tariff on
ALL farm nroducts and MOST manufactures was ABOLISHED or greatly reduced.
What then? Values shrunk, factories closed, thousands upon thousands were thrown out of .employment,
100 000 were out of work in Chicago, 30,000 in Detroit, soup houses were established. .NOTHING but a great war
mild avert overwhelming disaster to American institutions.. JUST THEN war came. All Europe was involved.
Fourteen of the world's greatest nations are at arms. It has gone on now for two years. What has been the re
sult?
Fifteen millions of men, of the most able bodied, highly trained, efficient men in the most civilized nations
of the Old World have been withdrawn from the active production of agricultural and manufactured goods and
put to the usesof war. Probably 5,000,000 more have been turned from agriculture and and manufacturing in
F.nrnne to the making of guns, ammunition, and other munitions of war. It is no exaggeration' to say that twenty
millions of men who had before been engaged in the same industries in which YOU, the farmers and laborers of
Michigan, are now engaged have, for two years, been turned aside Irom these occupations. What has happened
An enormous shortage in European production in all lines of human endeavor. Who has supplied the awful gap
thus caused? Who has bcen'callcd to supply this shortage? America, the greatest producing nation in the world.
Does any one doubt that, under such conditions, American trade has been GREATLY STIMULATED? Could
there be any other result?
Is any credit to be given the WILSON administration because this EUROPEAN shortage has brought this
"Teat volume of trade to us? Can any one point to one LINE, one WORD in the Wilson-Underwood tariff which
has built one FACTORY, encouraged a SINGLE industry or brought ONE foreign order to you, the farmers and
'laborers of the Eighth District, of Michigan, of the United States? ;
Consider, voters of the Eighth District. Point to one single PIECE OF LEGISLATION which has DIRECTLY
OR INDIRECTLY produced these higher prices for your crops, your labor or your skill.
Not in Europe alone, but in America, thousands upon thousands of men have been TURNED from the manu-
-facture of the. things- -which minister to PEACE to the things , which minister f to .WAR guuijr.jniinitioi)s,wiirniored
automobiles,' arid 'many other articles for export to the warring nations.. This must come to an end. It may be
NEXT year, it may be the year AFTER, and when it does end, STOP! LOOK! LISTEN! THINK! When .it
DOES end. what will happen? "
These 20,000.000 of efficient European men, highly trained in the arts of peace, will at ONCE be turned to
compete with YOU, to raise the CROPS you now raise, to MAKE the things AMERICA is now making. These
"Teat European factories, so constructed as to be. turned readily from the making of war materials to the making
of the things made in times of peace in our own mills and factories, will bo at once put in competition with our
own farmers arid laborers.
What will be the result? What MUST be the result? ALL PRICES WILL FALL. There isn't a man or wo
man who can think, who docs not KNOW that, when this enormous army of skilled and unskilled workmen begins
again to compete with America, this artificially stimulated trade and industry will take an AWFUL TUMBLE, How
FAR it will fall, how GREAT the catastrophe which awaits us, will depend upon what policies we adopt, whether,
with wise foresight, we have provided AGAINST a ocmplete collapse.
Now we ask you, as thinking men, in whose hands rests the future of the nation, the future of your prices for
farm products, manufacturers, and labor, what is there in the policies of Woodrow Wilson, of the Democratic
party, which offers ONE IOTA of protection against this catastrophe?
When the greater part of our European demand is cut off; when England, France, Germany, Russia again
become active bidders for our South American trade, for supplying all nations: with sugar, wheat, boots, shoes,
automobiles, auto trucks, for everything we now produce ; when the present blockade is raised by the declaration of
peace and the accumulated products of industry of all these years now piling up awaiting safe shipment are turn
ed loose; when our own workmen, now making munitions, turn to active competition with those in the legitimate
lines of farm production and making machinery of peace, do' you doubt that a terrible danger threatens?
lias any provision yet been made to meet such a crisis? CAN Mr. Wilson and CAN the Democratic party,
which prides itself that there is not in the Underwood bill "one SENTENCE, . ONE LINE, ONE PARAGRAPH.
FAVORABLE TO PROTECTION" which has asserted OVER and OVER again that PROTECTION IS UNCON
STITUTIONAL, can it now about face, repudiate its entire past, repeal the Freo Trade act, and adopt a protec
tive policy?
f)o yoil not know, that their weak-kneed, anti-dumping act. conceived in the hope of tiding over election, no
Free Trade tariff commission devised to .replace the Protective tariff commission the Democrats starved to death
can meet sucli an emergency?
Citizens of the Eighth District, MAKE NO MISTAKE. Let no temporary election made policy mislead you.
Bv your votes Tuesday, November 7, you will help fix the policy of the nation for the next four years. You will
help to decide whether our FACTORIES are to be SHUTDOWN by the cheap labor competition of Europe, desper
ately in need and ready to make any sacrifice to get trade ; whether our WORKMEN are to bo thrown out of em
ployment and your HOME MARKET destroyed. '
Of what use will be an eight-hour day to. a few railroad men, when many millions have NO WORK DAYS, NO
wages, NO money to buy with?
Of what use will be beautiful theories and sweet sounding phrases, when there is NO BREAD in tho larder, no
MONEY in the pocket? . .
Remember the days of '93 to '97. Remember the revival under a Mckinley tariff. Remember the prosperity
which came THEN, which has ALWAYS been yours under an ADEQUATE PROTECTIVE TARIFF administered
bv its FRIENDS, who believe in it, not by its ENEMIES, who repudiate it.
J .. . ii- i; l i1- . tiTi it ! ! A t 1
think. Be guided by reason, not by fine spun theory, and you will vote for Charles Evans Hugnes, the only ex-
ronent of Protection, the only defender of your interests as farmers and laborers, and for Joseph W. Fordney for
congress, the most capable representative or .protection in tne united mates.
Hear Governor Milliken of Maine, and Congressman
Fordney at New Armory, Saturday Evening, Nov. 4
Michigan Dry Meetings tor bunaay.
Tbe Shiawassee County State Wide
Prohibition Committee has arranged for
a anion meeting on Sunday next at the
following places, the same to be held in
the evening unless otherwise stated:
Cornnna Key. W. R. Blanchford,
Rev. F. M. Pnrdy, Baptist chnrch.
Perry -- Rev. B. G. Matron, opera
house. .
8baftsbnrg-Rev. 8. Jennings, M. E.
chnrch.
Byron Rev. E. J. Cros.
Buiton Rev. W. J. Dndgeon, M. P.
chnrch.
Bancroft Rev, J. Frank Green, Con
gregational chnrch.
' Lennon Rev. J.T. M. S'evens, M. E
chnrch.
Vernon Rev. E. J. .Warren, M. E.
chnrch. '
Henderson Rev. J. B. Wallace, Hen
derson.
Nicholson Rev. F. P. Spragne. Af
ternoon. . Antrim Rev. A. N. Riley, M. E.
chnrch, 2:30 p. m.
Garland Rev. E. H. Scott, Rev. A.
Ostroth, Carland chnrch.
Judds Corners Rev. A. G arm an.
Pittsburg Rev. W. J. Weldennamer,
afternoon.
.New Lotnrop W. C T. U.
' Benniugton Rev. Tinglan.
Dnrand L. E. Stewart of Battle
Creek. ,
Owosao II, II Rood, B. P. Hicks,
Union meeting
Easton Pastor, Disciple church,
morning.
Dnrand, 2:30 p. m., Morrlce, evening,
Rev. Fr. .Dennis A. Hayes.
Laingsburg, Rev. C. R. Wolford.
Carland, Monday evening, Judge S.
S. Miner.
To Save Pedestrians.
The city commission has instructed
the city attorney to draft an ordinance
compelling bicycle riders to nee lights
at night and a bell or alarm at all times.
and nee sidewalks only In cases of ne
cessity. Recent accidents caused com
plaints to be made.
Born, Friday, to Mr. and Mrs. George
8 herm an , Wes t Willi ams s t r ee t, a d an g h
ter.
j "The report of the Republican con
gresslonal campaign committee that
.the next honseof representatives will
be Republican by at least twenty
seven, is of particular interest to tbe
eighth Michigan district. That means
jthat Congressman Fordney will be
jchalrinan of the all-important wars
and means committee and probably
tie most influential man in the
house." Saginaw Courier-Herald.
j. Congressman Harrison, Democrat
of Mississippi, also' stated in an ad
dress at Saginaw last week that Con
gressman Fordney was the most pop
ular member in the house of repre
sentatives. Congressman Clark of
Florida, Democrat, also showed his
esteem for Congressman Fordney by
not filling tbe speaking dates in the
eighth district.
Congressman Fordney will be with
out question chairman of the ways
and means committee and floor lead
er of his party if the Republicans
win the house. This will make him
.a" national figure and place him in a
position to do more for his district
tfcan ever before. No Republican in
y wosso or in Shiawassee county can
afford to vote against him simply be
muse his opponent resides here.
p When we can retain the service of
the most influential, popular member
and probably the leader of the house,
IVERY R EP U B L I O A N should
eand by hiuTloyally, and let no sen
timentality influence him.
. .. Governor Milliken.
;" The Republicans of Shiawassee conn
tyjrrill undoubtedly turn out in large
hujnbers to greet Goy. elect Milliken of
Mtflne, who has promised to be present
fof.the rally in this city Saturday after
Xhreo Spiendid Publio Officials.
There is everv reason whv PrnVinta
Jatae Matthew Bnsh. County Clerk A.
L , Nichols and County Treasurer J. A.
Rkliardson should be re elected and not
be single thing can be honestly said
0w.t any .jf..ihtiju-Tbat they-will
be again chosen is not questioned, and
even the most sanguine member of the
Democratic party will admit that thwir
candidates cannot even hope to be suc
cessful. Judge Bush is recognized
throughout tbe state as one of the best
Probate Judges in Michigan, his long
term of service (having been first elect
ed in 1888) and re nominased without
opposition each four years since is the
highest testimonial to his worth and
expresses the esteem in which the vot
ers of Shiawassee county without re
gard to party hold him. He will con
tinue for years to come in the office he
now holds.
County Treasurer Richardson, best
known to all his friends as "Deb" is
just completing his first two years of
service and he has "been on the job"
every minute and is better fitted now
to care for the county's finances than a
new man could be. Mr. Richardson la
so honest, ' courteous, obliging, good
featured, and carefal that the patrons
of the office find it a pleasure to do
business with nim.
One of the happiest 'officials of the
county as well as one of the most effi
cient Is Its Clerk, Albert L. Nichols, so
well known that is difficult to tell the
people of the county anything new
, Capable Official Appreciated.
J The most trying office Is that of coun
I ty drain commissioner, and any man
I that fills it for two or four years without
I having roused - fierce opposition to him
self is a wonderfully capable and xsuo
ce?sful official Shiawassee county is
blessed with one in the person of Alonzo
Griffin, and his services are certainly
appreciated. He was unanimously re
nominated and will receive tho hearty
endorsement of tbe people of the county
Tuesday. lie has done more wcrk than
any previous drain com missio tier, ard
all of it is well done. Tbe work is kept
up to dato and with the certainty of
Mr. Griffin's serving for two years mon,
applications are being made so fast that
tbe county will bs one of tbe beat
drained counties in tbe state in a com
paratively snort time. '
MR. FORDNEY SHOULD BE
RE-ELECTED.
(Editorial from the Saginaw
Couricr-IIerald.)
One argument that V. A. Sceprail
lcr has been using in Shiawassee!
county in his campaign for election to
congress in iplace of Congressman
Fordney he apaprently overlooks in
his addresses in Saginaw county, al
though no doubt it is used with fine
effect in bis home county. In the
Owosso Argus we find a paid adver
tiscmcnt advising the voters that
Shiawassee county has a chance to be
represented at Washington, that "it
means something to be represented at
Washington," and that 'this county
should lay aside partisan feeling and
go out and elect the home man." If
that is good logic in Shiawassee county
Made from
0s?cvcd from 6ya$e
bn
J
t 1 J
A. L. Nichols. '
about his good qualities or his
splendid services in the office to
which he will be elected on Tuesday.
He is a 7o. 1 official, always attentive
to his dnties; has never been known to
neglect any of the requirements of his
office, and can be counted npon to serve
tbe people In the future as in tho past
to their satisfaction.
Bolt Violates Parole.
Emmett Bolt of Bancroft, who was
recently released on probation by Judge
Miner after being fined $115 for a vio
lation of tbe local option law, broke his
parole last Friday by taking a trip to
"wet" territory, and on bis return trip
from Cbesanlog an anto accident re
united In an investigation that landed
Bolt In jail.
Congressman Josepii W. Fordnky.
it is good logic in Saginaw county, and
yet Mr. Seegmiller is singularly silent
about it here. We think it only fair
to the voters, however, to inform them
that Mr. Scegmiller believes that they
should "so out and elect the home
man."
If, hoAvever, the voter believes there
are larger interests than local pride
to be served and that it is better to
be represented by an able and influen
tial man than by one who is merely a
homo man we would advise that he
follow his judgment, and it ought not
to be a difficult matter to choose be
tween the two candidates: Mr. Ford
ney with his fine ability; his long cx
perience, his standing in congress, the
almost certain prospect that he will
become chairman' of the ways and
means committee Avith the tremend
ous influence that position will give,
and Mr. Scegmiller.
Mr. Fordney, has long and ably
represented this district at Washing
ton and he has always fearlessly
championed the things he believed to
be for the best interests of his coun
try, lie has been at all times open
and frank. His constituents have
known at every moment exactly where
he stood and have respected him for
it. He holds their entire confidence.
Morover, his long experience in con
gress, has given him a- familiarity
with national affairs, a knowledge of
the lation's business and a power at
Washington that are of the utmost
value to the country as well as to his
own district. He is a man of fine
character, able, conscientious, fearless
and open. He is the type of man who
should be kept at Washington and The
Courier-Herald has every confidence
that the voters of his district will see
to that.
YouthfulTh.ef.
Charles Pratt, aged 20 years, of Du
rand, is for tbe third time in trouble
for stealing, being charged with takinp
two watches and a fob from the rest
denceof M. E. Bacon. Pratt was or
probation until next February for steal
ing clover seed and had been taken ir
custody once for stealing a typewriter.
103 to O.
Owosso high scbi ol football team got
lots of exercise but little opposition In
Its game with Ithaca high school Fri
day, the score being Owosso 103, Ith
aca 0.
Pertinent Pointers.
Mostly Political
Who knows of a single voter hi Shia
wassee county who does not believe
Judge Matthew Bush will be re elected!
Col. Geo. C. Harvey, the discoverer
of Woodrow Wilson, in April last de
clared under the heading; "Nobody for
Hughes but tbe People," that Ctiarles
E. Iljjigbes would be the next President
of tbe United States. In 1004 he was
but 22 electoral votes out of tbe
way in predicting the result; in 1008,
17; and in 1012 missed bis prediction on
one state only. He now says that the
election of Hughes is certain and gives
him 332 votes, Wilson 149, with 50
doubtful.
Lee H. Brojvn. a wet worker in Ing
ham county only a few months ago,
sees a big dry victory ahead.
it (.Mk
Some one has had the temerity to sag-'
gest that an Owosso man1 should, be J
supporweu tor -congress sorxnac uwosso
might be put on the map... If this city
has not been placed on the map in ft
most effective manner during the yeara
Uncle Joe Fordney has held the posi
tion we shall have to be shown. Mr.
Fordney has done more for Ow as 3 in a
lasting manner than all his predeces
sors from tbe district and he is going to
continue to do so. Space is too limited
to recall the favors our city and citizens
have received and most of our voters
have pretty good memories.
The general convention af the Epis
copal chnrch held in St. Louis, Mo.,
last week declared against tbe saloon
as fobows: "Our age is witnessing vast
and universal readjustments with ref
erence to the manufacture and sale of
liquor and it is generally recognized
that the saloon has been more and more
a menace to the best interests of our
corporate and individual life."
Wisconsin and Minnesota governors
called special sessions of the legislatures
of their states to amend the absence
voters' law so that tbeir soldier boys
at the front con Id vote. Michigan sol
diersmost of whom are known to be
Republicans are disfranchised. Such
an injustice is, to put It very mildly, a
blot upon the record of Gov. Ferris
which will never be erased.
"You might say to your readers that
Mr. Fordney will receive more than 95
per cent of the vote of the veterans of
this city and county," said a yery prom
inent member of the G. A. R. to Th
Times a few days since. "We do not
and cannot forget all he has so cheer
fully done for us. We are for him for
many more terms in congress."
Andrew H. Green, Jr.. of Detroit,
bead of several of the large industries
in Detroit, says: "Although I am a
Democrat, I never have held my party
above the interests of my fellow citi
zens. I am not engaged In a busineM
protected by a tariff and do not need a
tariff, bnt the present situation and the
developments of the near future com-
nA mp tr vota nfralnofc mv . " ti-
easily proves that President Wilson and
his party are not equal to handling the
world trade war which will ibe on this
country when peace comes to the bat
tlefields of Europe. He urges the elec
tion Of Mr. Hoghes and a Rnpnbllcan
congress for the SAFETY OF AMER
ICA.
The Chicago Daily News, hlrtherto
always independent, has declared
strongly for tbe election of Hnghes and
Fairbanks. Tbe straws all show which
way the tide is turning.
(Continued on page 8)i
