tTr
GERMAN DRIVE WINS FRENCH TRENCHES
WEATHER Rain to-night or Wtdnaidayi warmar.
OITIQN
"Circulation Books Open to All."
Clrcn1ntlon Books Open to AU."
1RI0E ONE CENT.
v'&?i&Vzr' new york, Tuesday, February 22, 1916.
10 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
'7
awMl
III coroiv
111
10 DEAD, 50 HURT IN DOUBLE WRECK;
THREE NEW HAVEN TRAINS IN SMASH-UP
FIERCE AIM
BY
HALF MILE
GERMANS
VJi P erced. in Not Hrii
After Drive.
tf VICTORY WAS COSTLY.
Gains Around Verdun Also
Mark German Offensive
on Western Front.
PATHS. Feb. Seven Gorman
battalions, by n most violent attuck
,1 against the French front in the Bois
j" Glvonchy region, carried more than
9 fclf a mile of French first lino
Frenches and also second lino trenches
in many places, tho French "Wnr Of
Bee admitted this Afternoon.
Tho Teutons occupied first line
Lfxench positions on n front of more
thari S0O yards. Hy heavy French
Counter-attacks thoy were repulsed
rrom practically all the xecond line
-positions.
j The "War Office rnported that the
1 German losses were very heavy.
Tho Germans charged tho Fionch
Sines after a very violent artillery
bombardment lasting sovoral hours.
r Tho War Olllco last night mentioned
heavy artillery actions at this sec
' or of tho front, reporting that the,
Jttnch pans woro replying energeti
cally to tho German nhcll-llrc.
The Gormann hurled hlgh-cxplo-mIvc
shells of all calibre and asphyx
iating' gan bombs. Tho French first
lino trcncliRH wero blown to plccoa
tinder tho terrific bombardment at
rivany place.
Tho Germany infantry onslaught
Lgau lato yesterday afternoon.
Against a front of loss than a inllo
tho Germans hurled nearly 8,000 mon
in jiucccsslvc attacks, Into those
t.'k columns tho French played
steady streams of shrapnel, machltia
gun bull eta and exploslvo nholls that
wrought terrible loss of life.
Tho German bombardment had
lulled to wreck tho French second
lino positions. From their third lino
the French made a counter-attack and
aulckly drove tho Germans out of
tnuoh of the conquered ground.
Vlolont artillery fighting, indicating
possibly tho beginning of another
German offensive, Is continuing
in J uround Verdun. The war offlco ad.
yf- jnltted that tbo Germans succeeded In
penetrating French first lino troncnes
east of Brabants-Urmeuse, but re
..ported that two vlolont German at
1 'tacks east of Soppols, In tho Vosges,
ware repulsed.
liONDON', Feb. 22."Vory heavy
flfhtlng Is proceeding on tho British
iront In Flanders, north and south of
Ypres, where tho Germans arc con
centrating thotr attack," said a Hot
trdam dospntch to-day. "Troops are
baing sent from Ghent and launched
Mfftlnot tho British front at Ypres.
largo numbers of Gorman wounded
ore arriving at Ohent and Bruges.
"Tho British have madn many
flerco attacks with hand grenade
and bombs, from trench mortars, and
there has boon occasional despot ate
bayonet work.
A 'Tho fighting continues nt s'vornl
it U points from Stecnstraoto to tho Huulh
of Ypres. Combats between aero
planes aro general, and thu Gorman
line of communications west of
Courtral has been bombarded."
STEAMSHIPS DUE TO-DAY.
Lafoyotte, Bordeaux .10 A. M.
Saratoga,' Havana 11 A. M.
Nleuw Amiterdam, Rotterdam 1 P, Ui
AT GIVENCHY
T
OF TRENCHES.
I
CALL OFF PLANNED
U-BOAT WARFARE
Note From Lansing Will Di
mand Definite Assurance
From Berlin.
WASHINGTON. Feb. IS. An end of
Informal negotiations between Secre
tary Lansing und Amb.ssador"on
Bornstorff and tho despatch of a
final, formal nolo to Germany em-1
phaslzlng tho need for unequivocal
assurances regarding submarine war
fare, has boon practically decided up
on by the Administration.
One tiling only, It Is said, can In
tervene, and that Is the arrival from
Berlin of lllniti assurances that tho
decree regarding sinking of armed
mcichautmcn without warning will
not bo put into effect March I ns an
nounced. Tho decroo must be mailt) to miuarc
with promises madn by Germany in
tliU'I.tisltunla easo exchange.
It is eald tho Administration bus
como to tho conclusion that tho con
fidential discussions between tho Sec
retary of Htato and tho Ambassador
have- outrun their usefulness, 1n view
of tho present apparent Impasso and
tho personal bad feeling that has
grown tip between tho two diplomats.
Confidential advices from Borlin
to-day indicated thut Germany soon
would Inform tho Unltod States that
her provlous nssurancos that unre
sisting liners will not bo attacked
without warning hold good for
future submnrlno operations, pro
vided, however, that such liners do
not carry armament.
As none of tho British and French
liners now clearing fiom American
ports carry any guns whatever, such
assurances from Germany will ba in
tho naturo of reassurances for tho
safety for tho neutrals they carry,
oven under tho terms of tho uow sub
marine campaign.
ASSEMBLY REBUKES ,
HAMILTON FISH JR.
Putnam Progressive Member's At
tack on Prosecutor of T. M.
Osborne Is Resented.
ALBANY. Fob, 3. Charges made
in the Assembly to-day by Hamilton
Fish Jr. of Putnam County that HI,
trlct Attorney Weeks of Westchester
County had boon unfair In his prose
cution of Tho'mas Mott Osborne, for
mer Warden of Sing Sing, woro or
dered strkkon from tho minutes of
tho session afior AHHtmhlymun Law
of Westi-hcster Indignantly protested
ugaiiiHt permitting Fish tu use such
language. Fish was Hpeaklng In favor
of tho p.ihsage of the Aninow Kill
intended U penult tin- inspection uf
Grand Jury minutes liy a defendant
wlio had boon di nhil ,i preliminary
hearing before n Mnnlstiate .
Fish iihs.illul tiio cundiit't or Mi,
Weeks vlgnrniiKb . I Inch nlli'uulloii
brought n piotoHi fioni l..iw, who
finally declared that ihe Assembly
hhoiiM nut p. I'init a uiMiibi-r tu c-nwr
ivlh ct iiiiK against a pi oiici'utor who,
at tno time, nun diroellna; the pi-use-cutlou
complained of. lie '.hon uiowtl
thai the liiimimgo objected to bo
Mtickcn from tiio minute. Tno ran.
tlnn was carried with nitly a alnslo
dissenting vote. Tho Arnnaw Hill was
defeated. 7a to 3. .
IS
1
GERMANY
IS
U-MUKfiftNLt tK
SAYS THOMPSON
Senator Surprised to Hear That
Kx-Counsel Now Forgets
All About It.
HE CRITICISES DAWSON.
Colby Denies He Ever Saw or
Heard of Banker's Letter
to Shonts.
Senator George F. Thompson, the
chairman of tho Legislative Commit
tee Investigating tho relations be
tween tho Public Sorvlco Commis
sion und tho Interborougb expressed
surprlso to-day at tho sudden failure
of tho memory of Miles M. Dawson
on the witness stand yesterday when
Dawson was questioned about a cer
tlrr tetter which, Benator Thompson
has reason ta bellcvo, was written by
J, P. Morgan to Theodora P. Shonts,
President of tho Interborougb, about
tho proposed Stevens 10 per cent.
contract for third-tracking th L
lines. Mr. Dawson was the assistant
of Balnbrldga Colby and resigned
with Mr. Colby on Saturday after
noon. "I understand." said Senator
Thompson, "that Mr .Colby', memory
las also suffered complete collapse
on the subject of this letter. It is
most interesting.
'Ton see, I knew nothing about the
letter until Mr. Colby told mo about
It after ho w.n retained as counsel
to tho Committee. Mr. Colby told
mo ten or n, dozen times that this
letter was tho most important docu
ment that could bo put in evidence.
"I understood from what Mr. Colby
told mo that tho letter was written
by Mr. Morgan after Directors Bead
and Lano had called on htm and
protested against awarding a 120,000,-
000 contract to John P. Slovens on a
basis of 12,000,000 profit, which was
to bo applied to certain commitments
and obligations. In tho lottor Mr.
Morgan, according to what Mr. Colby
told mo, severely censured Mr. Shontn
and Mr. Shontn was very Indignant
about it, saying Mr. Morgan shouldn't
have written such a letter to him be
cause ho (Sir. Morgan' 'knew ull
about it.'
"And now I am lod to bollovo by
statements in tho press that Mr. Colby
saya he doesu't know, anything about
uuch a letter. I submit that this is
a most remarkablo state of affairs
Wo retained Mr. Colby hecaueo Mr
Colby brought to us Gcorgo W.
Young, who on oath told somo of the
Insldo history of tho rejection of tho
Stevens contract and gavo u:i thu
first intimation of tho 'commitments
and obligations' matter.
"Mr. Young was nu Jntores'ing
witness. But he left tho stand Just
before Mr. Colby, who wnH examining
him, got to the matter of tho Morgan
lottor to Mr. Hhont.s. Mr. Young said
hn was III and was excused for tho
time. II has never been back and
wo haven't been able to subpoena
him, although wo have boon trying
since Sunday. One of our men went
to Mr. Young's apartment I'10
Hotel Notherland this morning und
found all the doors locked.
"Of court"-. 1 may lie niixt.iki-'i
about .Mr. Colby's memory. Hu may
remember .-i Ii-tti'i- hu simko to inr
iibuul ten or a iluV.eu times" and call' J
the mot: importii'it domiuiont w
could put in ovlili-n.-o. Un will have
an oporturlty to put ho memory on
exhibition when he is c-iillcil as i wit
ness to. morrow. Hut Mr. Diwsun has
Rimo on record, under o.itn. anil I tun
aiiiuZ'-d at th'- bieukduwii of lu.i
iccolli-i'tlui. ru.i'-liiiit-rj .
"I ifliull oi.o iiIk u Mi. Colby'-,
houao when a nci i- 't.tiir around a
(Coatlnutd on Second l'?c) 1
Three of the Passengers Who Were Aboard
The Express Train in New Haven Smash-Up
. i r t? i .i
i r i ekA -.1 r ; : ; 1 i rrrini
m mMi ysm. "ran
AMBASSADOR GERARD
HURT WHILE SKIING
UKRLIN, Fob. IS. American Am
bassador GeranVe collarbona wan
broken In an nccldont to-day.
The Ambassador wan Injured while
skiing near Munich and returned to
Berlin at once. In addition to the
broken bone his left g was Injured,
though not narlouhly. He was taken
to a hospital.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 21. While tho
Ambassador Is Incapacitated, Joseph
C. Grew of Boston, flr.st secretary,
will act in his place.
FIVE DIE IN BROADWAY
ACTRESSES SAVED
Flames Sweep Through West 44th
Street Rooming House Hotel
Guests See Victims Perish.
Hve lives were lost in a fire which destroyed the Colonial cafe
and rooming house at No. 155 West Forty-fourth Street, a few steps
from Broadway, at a little after seven o'clock to-day.
The patrons of the house, who nreS 1
theatrical people, are late sleeper,
and neither they nor tho servants of
the establishment upstairs were
aroused until tho only ntalrway wan
roaring with flamed that xwept
through as if It were tn- fluo of a
furnace.
THE DEAD.
ANTONIU3 CniSTI, twentyievan
years old, a waiter.
DOBISCH, EMILY, thirty years old,
houiakeeper,
JONAS, PETER, thirty-one years
old, a waiter.
KERAT8AS, THOMAS, thirty-five
years old, proprietor of tho boarding
houte.
MUSTOROPULUS. THOMAS,
twenty-four years old, kitchen man.1
THE INJURED. Ia ,l"!Ul,'ff " t,ial elty- appealed from
METSON, ARTHUR, actor; riflht j a lower i-ouri deciron upholdlnn the
ear and arm badly burnecii feet cut riglit of the manaconumt to revoks
and burned; to Polyclinic Hospital in ,,, n,:illH0 cmtoired by imsv-sslon of
critical condition. ltll acjmWinii ticket The critic In-
Oiogonus (i. n.i us : Uuc-.en man, , ,,, thu nvll ,t)jltl) forb,,,(Jmi,
liud been u - i,!! n.st,,- washing (u.rtminatl(m. but the rft.ipon.lents
kwj? J:::? h.,i.. avm,
IniiK's tlaraliUH, wuitois, who lodzn '
"llil.le. .u-rvc.l at T.1--' o'elool.. ho mot (
them ut tin. djur, .-.irrylng oj- a put ,
t.'i'ur'o-'n -m III" ' Tl.. "Hit. m told'
lllm to go up to w.'ke th" hoin-e ari-l
I
(Coatluuid on BeconO fast.)
it mm cars go over embankment
4
m
mm
WW,
.f-if -
JOHri sliEACTJ3.tllf.
BV POLICE
RIGHT TO DEBAR CRITICS
FROM THEATRES UPHELD
Conn or Appeals Decides Manager
Can Act, When Criticisms
Injure His Business.
ALBANY, Feb. 12. Tho Court of
Appeals to-day upheld tho right of a
theatre ownor to debar a dramatic
trltlo whose criticism are Injurloun
to the theatte's business.
diumatic critic of n New Voik
aW-i.iJliBWv
.5,--:iaW:'-:
mm
FIRE
""d that ho hud been liarrnd tro'n the j
ihnatro nololy In hli mpailty nt at
..j,,,,. !
AIXdn.1.1 Woobou lirougl.i ihe
uc'iun :n .incstion to i:ompl tho .
Shilui ru tu adnu hi.u tu iholr
-UitAUaa su a critic,
t
MOl.CiAK OJBR.IHIV JBt
THE KILLED AND INJURED
IN NEW HAVEN WRECK
KNOWN DF.AD.
TUOKKfl, , flinman f Tiain
No. 79.
CURTIS, , tnninair of Train
No. S.
M'QUINESS. , fireman of Train
No. S.
PULLMAN PORTErt of Train No.
79.
SIX OTHERS unidentified.
KNOWN INJURED.
HAimis, oKouarr, ,o, M9 state
Street, N'o.w Haven; abrasion of
scalp,
SUHIJPPV. JAM HS, No.lOJ James
Street, Now Haven: scalp badly hurt.
M'N'AMABA. JOHN. Itoso Street,
Aimonla: chest crushed.
NEWMAN, WILLIAM W.. No. 97
Havens Street, New Haven; back
bruised.
rivNTON. MAY, No. 0 Chrlsto
phen Street, New York, scalp wounds.
ALLKN, C. 1-:., Quaker Oatu Co.,
flroton, hands and face weverely
scalded, condition aerloui.
I'ISHKH. HKNHY, No. T IIor!.ey
Strnit. New York, right arm frac
tured. GOODYKAT:, Dr. n. B . North
Haven, nhock, Internal Injuries, cun
dltlon serloun.
COLLINS, FBANK, 10 Pleasant
Street. Murid(n, right hand and fln
gorn crushid.
L1NKHAN. BHSSIK. ITi Soutu
Street. Chlcopee, Mass. luck und
head hutt.-
DONOVAN, Mr. M. J., "3 Bradford
Street, Springfield, Injury to spine.
COFHKI. EDWIN, wame .iddreH-,
abrasions right forearm.
YVONNi:, Mrs. OHOl'KltONTJLL.
name addrrss, left leg lacerated and
dislocated.
LABADII., WILLIAM I1AHNA
DKLL. Hnrtford, Internally Injured.
JOFFKY. HTHKL. No. llt Chapol
Stinftt, Now Haven, Injuries to htud.
f.'i.AHK, mhs. ni:oitoi:, No. J.I
Hlggunon Street. New ltochelle, right
leg fractured.
ItlCHMONI), MILS., No. 210R Hairy
Avenue, New Yorlc, internal InJurloM,
NIJKNAN, W. V.. aged twenty-five,
No. H7 Haven Stioet, New Haven;
briilved b.uk and .ibr.uioiib.
I'F.NTON, MAIUiAltLT II., No. 2itii
t'rehtoii Avenue, Now Yoik City; i is
sibly fractured skull.
HIANAl'O, A. J.. wge.l thirty. llw.-.
Mendrn; ditdooAtt-d shoudoi.
.SCiiAl'l'A, FI'.ANK, James Sireiit,
Nton jtaven: head calileil"'an) in-
temal inJurK p. will die.
M'N'A .M A HA. KHAN'K, of An-iunia;
Internal injuries and skull fractured,
M'lll probably di ...
LOCAL RUNS INTO
TRAI
Sixteen Seriously Injured by Second
Crash Rescuers Quickly Stop
Fire From Adding to Horror of Dis
aster Yale Students Help Save.
FLAGMAN LOSES HIS LIFE
TRYING TO STOP TRAIN
Ten lives were lost and sixteen persons seriously injured In a three
train wreck on the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad three
quarters of a mile east of Milford, Conn., at a.little after 11 o'clock to--day.
Of the killed four were railroad employees and six were passen
gers. The list included Engineer Curtis and Fireman McGinnis of Spe
cial iraln No. 5, which ran into the rear of the Connecticut River Ux
press, bound for New York, and threw smashed cars of both trains
against special freight No. l.ooj, piling up a huge mass of wreckage, in
which the injured struggled in an impenetrable cloud of dust which dU
not settle until ten minutes after (he crash. The confusion was made
worse by the starting of a fire, which was soon extinguished.
The Connecticut River express from Drattleboro, Vt to New York
was stopped by a leak in its' air brake line. The engineer and several
trainmen were searching for the leak. The rear flagman was sent back
to prolcet the rear of the express.
The local, which had been sent out from New Haven to accommo
date passengers who had expected to take a Boston train there which
was indefinitely delayed because of bail weather, and was filled with
persons from Connecticut towns, was dose behind the express.
FLAGMAN KILLED TRYING TO STOP TRAIN.
The flagman saw it almost as soon as he headed back down tiv
track. In his brave determination to avert the collision he ran straight
along the middle of the track until he was struck down and killed 03
the locomotive of the local.
The locul plungvd on Into (lie rear car of the express mmipllng and
splitting II. The locomolhe left the truck, rolled orer and drugging the
first enr of the local with it rolled down u rtfty.font emtiunkmeiit Into a
IiiohK. Tho last rar of Hit' express also rolled oner, hnl was i-litckod ou the
brink Uy the upright of the electrical traction tiiilpnieut.
Tho two next cars of tho express train buckled to the north and
were thrown violently against thu freight, which was moving slowly in
tho Biuno direction ou the next track, shattering the passcnjjer coacho
axulust tho sides of the steel coal gondolas.
Curtis und McOfnniH wero Instantly killed, at wore u woman and tw
mon in tho coach which wont down tho bank. Tho Pullman porter of the
exprcii.i train died beforo ho could bo taken from tho ear.
At tho moment or the collision George W. Clark of Milford was btandln
within twenty feet of tho express train. When he saw tho engine crumple
tho rear car of the express and topplo down the .bank and a moment later
curls of tiiuolie coming from the smatdtcd cars, ha headed for where tho fire
threatened most and led passengers In a fight on It. Ills clear-headed action
probably saved ninny lives. When the flro was extinguished ho led In th.
rescue work.
Train No. U', witli a score of physicians ami nurses front Urldgcport,
narrowly escapul ramming the wreck. Tho train was stopped at Washing
ton Bridge Tho engineer thou went uheud at reduced speed, but he was
misinformed us to the exact place uf the accident and saw the wreck ahead
of him 1111 a curve only In time to stop on tho emergency brakes, with the
cowcatcher of Ills engine tun feat from the locomotive of the e.xprcas. The
iKiH.fcnR.TH pilod out In 11 panic.
Fifty Injured peroim were taken to the Bridgeport Hospital on the
arrival of the relief train.
Tllimi SWDHNTS IIAVK NARROW ESCAPE.
Morgan J. O'Hrlen jr., son of the former Now York Supremo Court
Jusik'o, John K. KHpiitrli'l.. the Vale football star, and Allen Corey, son
of W. I!. Corey of tho United States Steel Corporation, wore together In
the rear car 01 tho express. O'Brien was slightly cut and bruised. Tho
other two wre unhurt. The three-wtN araooi th flrat to amarvo fro.
EXPRESS
N HITS WRE
