THE WEATHER FORECAST.
tm.
jFair and warmer to-day and probably
IT SHINES FOrV ALL
to-morrow; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 33: lowest, 5.
Detailed weather, null and marine reports on PaRe 13.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 175.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1916. Copyright, I9i, by the Sun PHnttng ami Publishing Ao,t,uUi,
PRICE TWO CENTS.
FRENCH WRECK
ZEPPELIN AND
4 AEROPLANES
Six Air Fights in One. Day
Fokkor Destroyed
in Alsace.
TIII.KK AVIATOHS
FOUCKI) TO LAND
.. 1 ihlf lir'iialeh In Tur. sin.
ru's. IV!.. 21. TIih nasi twenty-four' T,l,! fl'M yesterday.
turn 1. 1- been pcrtiaph the day of the "Yo have doubtless observed," lie
liritoi 3 nil activity ct scon. A Zep. ! "ld. "th.it tho Interview which my sov
ril,n .'.- uiouglit down In tlamca, a i crclgn permitted ma to accord to a cor
I'o'k.r .iTopl me was shot down by u respondent of the Temp, lit Ljons. after
1 r ti.-n .uivplun.', and tliico other Her-I hi M.tJ.Nty had himself spoken hriclly
" " " ' , " "
: , . ................ -..
i ,. i :!. II. 'I to l.i ail aiirupii wiiiim
i . i l-A llllei.
JU.M a; tin tltihtin' w.ih doiiu letwwai
-.ii.iiir.' i f considerable ilte. In one
rJre m th. rcKHiti jf KevlRiiy, .fifteen
ina.''i'' c. m ule up the ilennan miu.hI
run. m another, near Vuneiilleflee-llat-U'M.'1
i'. . .-.m ii I remii Uituhiiiee and
,jt rm.iii aeroplanes wen- elinaRed.
, I' kiit; fi.iture of the encasement.'
till i-. thixo "iirounlern and In a
ciuiWr of bombariluiK raliln made by
I'Mu i "U.i.lrm iMry I'l.meh airo
, I me r.wilud leluriied to It point of
part 'ire.
, l-'reTu'b Hrpianroti of
iH.nilMi-illiiKj
r(ipl.nie". iiiprNliiB Hlt
-m iiiai-iiui t h
Mrtw i-lti lv heavy bonlbs on the
..nn.m avlallon field at ll'ibhclm audi
lh. cilt Malion at Muelh,'itien. in I
i-ae A lieiin.ui inunltloiiH fuetor' at'
.Kn-Mir-Moelle ae bombarded by
t .. tin" proup of tuenty-elKllt niai'llines.
l.mia on iito tVri'i'k '.epprlln.
The ' npe'ln wh'ch was destroyed was
iraill:iK southward from Ste. .Menv
h'ni il Anil-. ill. ran cii'.i mounted on
u'omob'les were -ent In pursuit from
il' An Incendiary -hell from one
t Tie?., nuns h'lilck the dlrUlble and
t It arlre. It fell, blazing, III the out.
, irt- ef llrabant-le.lCol.
Tin- l'okker was brought down In a
ft.ii w th a 1'reiiit! midline to the east
of Mi) In h. In Al-io e. The Krench
K'tvplanu clo.-d In and tired llfteen
)Hit at the swift licnnan machine,
lir'nslt i; It down.
In th" Itevlittiv aerial battle, the tier-n-aii
.(-I.-itl I i bad diopptd liombs on
f r,s. ll.it-le-lui- mid lievieny before
It n.is ailacke.1 by a Krendi Mi'tadiou.
r.d 'i Hie tight which followed one of
' ie i ierinan machines was broiiKlit down
ii'l its occupants made prisoners.
liirinan aeroplanes droppc.1 bombs on
I.unevllle, IXilllbaeie
'I! . causlm; Utile
and Nancy last i
lainaye. Mran-.
de Krendi machines were Nimbnrd-'
ie ,f Milan munitions deiols at i 'ha-1 The y m ide the n.ute of sappb fioni Sa
tfau d- .Martincoiirt and A.otidatiKe, tnone:t pi aclli nll linp.i-il.le for u. I"
tl foirh of Pleuie. i lerruptln-J and .eiaiiit: ier sbipii'.ut
The lierinan otlicial statement lsued liUli I'.muI.iimI. Kimice and l!u-ia tried
to-d.iv .iniioun.-es Hie bombarduieut by , in ki thrcmali i us !. thN mule Thl-
;erma i ioat Ines also of Kurnes. I'o- ' hostile altHude .smtUUH il ii(. lo t' ver
I'rlMgl
' in 111 v
and Amiens, and s.i.vh that .
, sfnl e.nlls wer nb.
Ts, ofll lal communique Issued by the
T'e li War office to-night describes
r at activities In lh following
ti 1 -
T1 . dav was marked by numerous
,. 1 h.it-. Above Tiigzdnrff,
.,1 vukiu'Ii one of our aeroplane-,
ft tug a l'okker at close rnngc,
le.ii. i op, it a Hie of lirt.eli carl
ri'lg, - The enemy's machine, turned
e , - 1 ubl w Im:. tin 11 fell
i' 1. clou of Kpluiil an Alba-
lp
en
- I.-oiikIiI down by the, lire of
IV.
1 11. region of llures, norlb of
tl f,i-i .,f I'.trrov. a ileniiau ma-
tl .nn kid by two of ours, wan
o a' 11 Ide our lines. Tin: pilot
1 I 1 I . . 1 trer Were killed.
-o'iiiIioii of seven Fri iu h ma
eh - .-iv. co'iibat In four lieiuiiiii
"l i in tin nifloii of Vlgneiillui.
I. li " .ii.'hai, I inorthiast of St.
M ' Two of tint 1 iei ill. in mac hines
nulled 10 land and two others
U' Ibglit
l.erioliii I'liillf tllll'l.ed,
1 rool tn... bombarded Ti
! I'n and Itevigny, Near
hum tlie eneiu.v squadron,
,,f uf'.eii rii.ii liliii. was ni-"i-
1 our pursuing squad-
I
1 "I vv li fo i eil to give combat,
trse of wblcli a Herman aero
w ,s -hot down mar Ulvry, In
rt- .iiiie The two avlatois were
je . oner- A sei-ond enemy acro
1 usiit l. deM.(lided abiuptly In
' !. 'mis.
, of our lioinhai'dlug squadrons,
I of -Ixtieii machines, tlirow
-,x bombs of lare calibre on the
11. Id of Hahshelm and on the
' tit ion at Muelhausen. An
uionp of Iwetity-ulght machines
t ' unieious projectllea on tho en
u. itlnns f.n tory at Tagny-sur-
Follow lug these tllfferent op-
- ill our nt'lopluncs leturneil to
r t ,ii j polnlK.
X. .pi "c iravellliig from Kte.
'ml toward the south was shot
fr
et tl
1
iu
Mi'
!,
' 1 m cIIoii of automobile anil
1 '! "mms f 1 tint llevlgny. Struck
.111 einiiary shell It fill In tlameK
or -k.tt- of llr.ilunt-li-ltol.
' I 1 ie li afleinoou coiuniiiiilqiiu
' M of considerable! activity in tho
It wis as follows :
1 i.idron of live French aero.
l oi, iianlid the munitions: depots
r .
'my at Chateau do Martin.
d at Aroudangn (southwest
it mast of iJli'iizo). Herman
us dropped soinn projectiles
, on Liuieville, Dombasln and
They caiiHed only a umall
"I tlamage.
nninsu in air raw.
- Uiieliliti-s VI til.e AltttcL nn tier,
mutt Depoln h( Hon,
il r,ii,lr Hnp.tfrh to Tan 9t
I".
b '.'I.
The Hrltlsh oftlcial
11 v tells of an aerial atiack
x llntmh niai'hlnes on the
1 nn at Hon. The machines
f. I)
idipiiHetH report, as Issued by
pii'fK buieaii, mH :
',! 1 was mad" on the depots
In t .vt nl -jl.x aeroplanes yes
l.xtet,."ivc damage is belleetd
,i en done to tlie stores and
w iv All Iln.' machines re-
-.lf.lv
. tier; bombarded Hie linitlle
.I'-nit Hulliidi and north of
Comities Canal,
1 xplosloii resulletl from our
'Witzcr lire directed n,iliml
Premier of Montenegro
Assails Serbia andltaH
Betrayed by Former, He Says Openly Suspicious of
Latter's Good Intentions Blames England and
France for Costly Ignorance of Balkan Affairs.
CALLS "DEFENCE OF SMALL NATIONS" BOSH
tpreiat Corrrtpmvtrwt to Till; StN.
I'Aiim, l-Vb. f..Thr Montenegrin Ptlmo
Minister, M. Muclikos lloli. who hn mnio
up to I'urln from Lyons to arrange with
thr French itovcrnment for tho relief of
Montenegrin refugees trunpnrttsl to
France, received the cot respondent of
jvui H..U1-1, . . ...... ....... ,
lnr vi.nilllUK oi in. (i newspaper " me
censor. The Impression appeals to have
Kniie.ibro.nl that the censor found what i
I bail to iay ilisagiceablc to our ally
llal. I van will understand that he
snnui.i nave. lotiini ni) utterances ins-'
agreeable to eeral of the Allien equally
calhcr than lo Italy ecpeelally.
"I notice, liiueer. In the coliimrm of
tla Trench pre, piMed upon by the
ame censor, aitlelen which are morn
' disagreeable to MontencKro than anv
I tlilntr which 1 xald could bae been to
any of the Allies, notably certain artlcbi
In the, .loMrnnf ie Oedf., In whlcb tho
..1.. t- liifr.PitiA.l II... t flia U'lfi .r
MmrllP1jr , .,,, of ,,, ,,.,,,.
sauce, and In wblcli It Is rather
broadly hinted that the King ban
trajed his allies.
. , ,,,, i
Aeeiirn erhln ntitl
ltnl.
statini;
"I se. no injusticn in my
our
for
e.is' atrainst certain of our allies.
they do not appear to hesitate to state
what they suppose to be a crave case
attain"! us If e hav betrayed any
Isjily m do not appear to have profited
handsomely by It. for here we are, far
away from our own country, extieii into i
the lio.pltalltv of a forelcn land, "tlthj
only our hand basRace s.ied out of all
that we bail. We mountain peopbs too j
loe OUT lioilie i.tiiu more i.i"iimi;uu..
lb. in calm plains folk .lo. U h hav.j we
suffered thus If we weie so well Itidilivd
to drive bhiod bargains with the
enemy 7
"imr rontpl.ilnt must fall tlrst upon
the Serbians and Italians The Serbian,
haw intrlcu.'d ntraint II' even where
since we were ciuheil In the enem,
and it Is cert iln that the poisoned -oiii. e
of at! the stol li s oui discredit wh'di
arc ruiuilnu eer where l Serbian
Throughout the rourse of mllltarj oper
ntloiib which preceded our tlnal defeat
the Serbians did eeiihlm: In their
loner to prevent us from belnir supplied
with muultliuts of war and food suppllis.
end of the ill-.i.-ter a large iiiamny ut
Hour winch lad t.-. II sent to ll n mis-
sla. along with a larger quaintly tor
Set Ida, was held up too long, so that the
llulgars -'"I all of it,
"Hvcr since the le-glnniiis of the war
I have been Montt negrln .Minister In
Serbia, having returned to be Tiline
Minister mils when the llual erl-ls came.
'and I have h.ol ample opportuult to
Isindv the attitude or the Sirblaii
loward Us, I can account for H only b,
i very general term-; they mistrust our
'desire to remain. Independent irrespec
tive of pan-Serbun aspirations, they fear
, that tin- Utile Illicit Un of Independence
which we would maintain In the new
I Serbian State would be contrary lo their
interests, they dislike the glorious fads
1 nf our history Isvaiise they are a little
I more brilliant than thus,, of which tlicy
can iHiast, iind they know that we ale
morallv opposed to the tope of the
reslme' which prevailed in Serbia Im
' mediate! In fore the war.
1 KnevT of A rclidtlUf's Mayers.
I "They know that we know that It Is
'true tliat their fioveinment was mil
I atqualnled wllh the activities of the ur
I garilzed element 'which arranged the 11s
1 sasslnatlon of the An-Mari heir. They
know that we consider th ,t they acted
1 rashly In precipitating th" crls's ,tt the
1 .nrt.n..t,t ..'I. I,. I. ll.ee ,,l,r.-e lli.,f Utiiiw
. I rlt till ..trm,' II, .1 Ito.ll.t u-.iu I
. f,, It i.iwl tin.' the result whs
uncertain. We could have remained neu
tral: il was our feeling for our race
which determined our coiidud, we threw
In our destinies with lliem, we fought
well. we. held large forces of Auetri.uis
along our front. Our losses were heavy,
"Out of tho fiO.dno men upon
the Held certainly not more than an.noo
could have been taken out of tho coun
try if the Italians bad been on hand
with ships. Now all Is lo.-t. Terh.tps
a few, a very few, thousands remain
111 a position from which they may es
cape. And In return for our sacrifices
w ate treated 11s traltorH by KuroiH)!
"The Italian failure Is harder to ac
count for. 1 cannot think that they
failed to send us help, In men and sup
plies, because they could not do so, a.s
a matter of material icsoiircep. We
havo reason to liellevo that not more
than from 1:00,1)00 to S.'iO.imHi Austrian
and llavarlans are facing them in their
trenches. Wo know that they have
mobilized alsut t.ioo.finii men. They
havo at their disposal In the Adrlttic
larue, naval resources supplied bv Hug-
land and France. ineir own navy is . ,.neniles. 1 observe that Kuropeans seem
riipiioscil to Isv stronger than Austria's. think that It Is prn-tiermiin to b-peak
"Their attitude has been similar tuniti. thU It Is out of Ignorance of the
Serlfla's. If they have not assisted uh i npeclnl character of llalkan existence
It has been because they did not want, that they diaw such a false conclusion,
tn do so. The ICngllsh and French iia-jit Is not pro-Herman to be Intcrostcd In
val forces In tho Adriatic could do until-1 self-piiservatlon."
the gun positions In the ltedlngsliem
area,
Hnemy alrciafl In the last frw
nights havo made several night at
tacks on various tuwus In our area
with no military result. A few
ilvllUns worn killed.
FLIERS ATTACKED SHIPS.
Hermann llomlinrileil Tvtt Vcs.cU
In Itulil mi Knidnnil,
Hoi UN, via London, Feb. SI. The
following oftlcial Hccoimt of tlm Her
man aeroplano raid on tho east and
boutheiiht roast of ICiighilid on Sunday,
In which three persons weie killed, wim
Issued In-day!
"Herman naval aeroplane on Febru
ary -n at noon atliiikeil the llililsh
coast. HonibH were, lull led successful!)
on factories iu the rear of the railroad
arid on tho docks .'ind gasometer li
Lowestoft, Th " main station and dnclut
In lenwtiHloft wern hit several times.
The gasometer broke down under the
ihg because, the Allien bad entrusted the
command or n.ivul nis-ratlons In thi
sea to the Italian. The measures which
we:., undertaken In order to assist us
to defend Mount Unven were, absurd,
the suns whleh were cent were of too
small calibre; everything wa misman
aged and delayed. The tlrst ship cent
to our rescue worn supposed to liavo
been torpedoed, the othera did not ven
ture out. Italy watched us collapse,
as Serbia did. I cannot understand It
nor ein I understand tho blindness of
lh.) other allien to It. For now Italy
has opposite her a hostile coast, whle.h
win simmy tiouiuiosa bo entirely oc-
eupieti ny her enemy,
"It Is nr.-il.il. .. II. . I IHlo I. Aim.
trustful f Serbia, ami that 'Serbia Is as
,lit rutful ..f Italv, as either of them
wan distrustful of us. We eannot lay
this blame at the .loor nf Knglaml.
Fr.i.u tul Itnsshi. Th.. .!..!
wnhii we hai to make against tli'nil
ls wiai iney uiii not know how to be
ciire results n the It. ilk. ins. I consider
that it would hae been very easy for
them to have secured the assistance of
Unit-aria, Itumaula and Greece If they
h id not been so Ignorant of llatkan
polltbs and llalkan conditions. They
liesitaled. blunilered and did th wronf
thlni; ,very time. Their Isnorancn has
iist lh in the came for the time helnc.
1 1 -1 b. I!ee that the lost parts of the
I llalkaus may be retained If the lllea
i ai.i suci esfui on the chief northern
j fronts, for with siitllclent pressuri upon
I their litipoitiint fronts thn tlermaps
would thin out the'r llalkan resistance
to ;t point where It would be pooslhla
for us to Invade and reconquer n'lr lot
terrilor . Of course Silonlra tnny W
attacked by the Oermans-and Hulcar".
If she holds out she oiiKht to provide
a cood Martins point for a later of
fensl e.
t pproiichc.i tnstrla to tin In Time.
'There Is
tnui-li dlscii-slon still rliout
of our supposed arrange-
h,
til. liter
nient with Au.trl.i for a separate peace, i
l.vcrj thing that 1 have eMi about It
In the pres. is false The truth of the
matter Is that we made the overtures
to ustrla In order to gam time She
I made nm.e to us. It did gilu time for
I in and li. vlriti" of 't we were irui. to
withdraw almost ".'ifi.aon rrvops ti iuth-
ward for embarkation If the ships had
been there thev would have gor away.
nv netrollttliins which may have been
uiulertakui lietvvcen the Austrian (!ov
ertinietit and Montenegrin (lenerals since
the departure of th King are flmple
matters of military surrender and have
ru- pol'thal slKtiltlcance or authority.
"It N probable 1 hat mov 0i our
troops :.re out of lo-llim or .'ap'ured
W.- thlul. that lb" Trlnee Mlrko ami our
1 ieneralUsinio ate prisoners. Tliewho
of our coimtry is prob.ibh o.cup.ed by
lb., enemy by this tlm.
"TI.ele aere no .itrocititt. cotnmltteil
b.v Ihe en. 11c. , so far ns we know, during
the nilvan. e m , occupation, the enemy's
r.icths being 10 aipe.tr in a favorable
light ImIoic the Itibabltants. We have
reason lo believe, however, lh.it since
the entire tvciipatlon has been ttccom
till.'ied tb.. enemy his shown himself
llloi e si vele.
'Tin- King has stood the plisca and
noral strain of the defeat, and flight
very well, but be I- .in old man and the
eiuferlng to which he has lieen nub
Jected has told on tilni to 11 tertaln de
gree. The heir Is 111 In France, where
he w is when defeat overlook nf.
"Ae are confident iu Hie tlti.il victory
of the .Miles They will perhaps never
defeat lierm.iny militarily Iu a decisive
wa bec,tue the Hermans may be strong
enough lo prevent Imisirtant Invasion of
Itielr country Hut the Allies should In
the long run be able to outnumber and
out tii.it, 1 ''it liennany and her allien to
lich a degne that they will Is- able to
d . t t'e .1 lavorabl" peace If they tin not
lOlltilllie lo the end thej will have
an, ther vv.tr to tVght very boon. We
hope confidently to return to our country
and to retain our lndeiendence 11s .1 re.
suit of the general victory of the Allle.
llefeniHnu small atlnn llumbnar'
"Tbf
belief in the morality of nations
til Hie talk about the tlefence of
.iilonallties against domineering
and
lbtll.il!
emplle.s. the sacred principle of nation-
alit.v, .vi". is verj' remarkable. For
twenty-live ear- I have been In public
life In an exceedingly small nation; I
have gone on missions to all of the great
Powers to-day it war: 1 have repe.
rented the InterestH of my country In all
soils of situations. It l my experience
that this talk is all humbug, It is good
to tell to Innocents. We men of small
nations know that wo shall be treated
after this war Jii"t as we have always
been treated, that we shall exist or not
exle' according to the political con
veniences ami after the political Interests
of tlie great Powers which decide our
fate, We know lh.it our fate shall be
determined according to the fume prin
ciple", whether one group of Powers or
the other be the victor. We have our
friends and our enemies, those In favor of
our existence and those against our
existence. As 1 have made clear to you,
the dividing line Is not drawn strictly
iicenrding to belligerent groupings, We
Hhall he victims If we are sacrificed by
our allies In Just the same degree that
1 wo shall If we ale sacrificed bv our
effect of the bombs, Jn addition
two
tank steamships were, bombed,
"In spite of the enemy's fir- and
pursull by iieroplanes nil Hie Herman
itei'oplatii h returned safely."
Another ofllrlal Htatemenl lesueri to.
day says that Herman naval neropUnes
dropped a large number of bombs on
Hit! aerodrome and camp nt Furnesi,
Iu West Flanders. 011 Sundii, The
Herman aircraft returned safely.
Mr II 11 Id Killed One.
!lttdnl Cahlr ftt. patch io Tun Si s,
le-iNiHiN'. Feb, 21,- -The War Office Is.
sued a statement to-day announcing that
the casualties resulting from the Her
man aeroplane raid on Walmer, Kent,
csterd,'iy were one Iny killed and an
other Injiinsl, Instead of three killed and
mi" Injured as previously announced.
AI'fil'KTA SI'K.ri,le-lt041 P.M. II
IAII.V.
WAY', liriiwln nd twi-rnoin lf.-pi
Cniniimtmiiil ear dtilr to Auiusi.
itiii'ii it, i Aiirut-ia. vi rvtiu -iir.nn
KAIIe
UIII
eri
car serrlei.'. M. Y. atSue. JM Fiflh A.-iit.
FIGHTS TO TAX GIFTS
Triivls Flics .iioul Against ,
Transfer Hppnrt mi l.egimy ,
of Mrs. Rockefeller. .
CALLS IT TltrST COMPANY
Comptroller Contends Founda
tion Ts Not :i Clmrity Vn
der Exemption Act.
Lafayette B. Oleasnn, counsel to Stale
Ootuptroller Travis, tiled yesterday a
the Hurroirate's. ofllce nn appeal from the
transfer tax report on the estate of Mrs.
Laura Ppellman Hoekefeller. wife of
John t. Rockefeller, (midline untavable
tho residuary estate of MST.nM which
went to the Itockefeller Foundation ! ollt m-morrow."
throuKh the exercise of the authority , ti, .utltude of I 'can V. tlilder
Itlven by Mrs. Hoekefeller to her execu- tupeve of llanur.l has so frluhlened
tors and Irustees, j some of the editors that two. Miss Kllxa-
The Comptroller believes thai there i,,M tl n,, -1 1.. and Miss porothy
will be nothlnic to prevent John P, Metzurr. 'I, have tendered their reeljt-
Hockefeller from maklni: gifts to Indl- I
Mduals throuKh the foundation If the
present ruling Is upheld. There Is no
doubt that the question will be carried
to the Court of Appeals.
The t'omptrolter's appeal Is based on
the contention that the Itockefeller
Foundation Is not a "eharltable corpora
tion" wllhln the transfer tax exemption
statute, but Is a "benevolent, educational
and Investigating corporation."
Another ground is thai lb" residuary
csime ,.tri 1 11 . K 1 1. 1 1.' i i.-i.iti 1 makes
io toe executors aim iinsi.es inn...., i
to th foundation, and that they should j
b held ie-ponslble for a tax because
the tettatrlx gave them entire discretion
as to the distribution of the res'due.
It is also alleged mat win n the execu
tors gave the residue to the foundation
they did not comply with the provision
of the will, and for this leason the
residue Is. taxable.
Schuler I'artton of counsel for tile
Slat" Comptroller, who drew up the
appeal papers, includes excerpt- from
the report of the Itockefeller Founda
tion for the period from May Tl, T.illt.
when Jl was organized, to I'eiember 51
last. The report shows that during this
period the Income was II, 147, lit,', while
the amount expended was only I3IA.14K.
bavlnt: a balance or 11,101,10. unspent
and added to the principal, which was
9i5,iiOO.OiiO at the end of Ust year.
( nil It
Trt
Company j
The point regarded bv Mr. Carl-1
ton as the most vital feature of his appeal
relates to the disclosure In the founda
tion report that it huldx 14V"1" par
value of l.tnds left by Mrs. Hockt-1
feller In tru-t during her lifetime and '
which was not Included tn her estate at.
her death.
Mr. Carlton argues that In holding ;
the.. bunds under trust agreements from '
1 Mrs. Itockefeller the Itockefi Her Founda-
' Hon is fulfilling all
' trut coinpaiiv. Il I
trust agle.lllenls are llligll .Hid void 1
and tn.it the JI'.OcO In bonds siunild be 1
taxed a- tun of Mr. Itockefeller s is-
tale. He finds nothing of
cliarlt ibli
nature. In the duties of the foundation
muter these trust agr lit nts.
I'nder the heading of "Hlfls from
Mrs John 1'. Itockcff lltr" lh nport
states .
"The foundation leve.vrd gifts In
eurltles amounting Iu part 10
f I k, oho 1
from Mrs. John I'. Hoekefeller"
Th" report says that the gift w ts
announced In a biter fiom Stair .1.
Murphy, personal counsel to John I'.
Itockefeller, written from IS Hroadway
on June 7, l!H.1. to the foundation. The
letter, which Is ueil lo the Comp
troller as basis for Ids contention tin, I
the foundation Is acinalK fulfilling the
powers of a trust cotnpaiij, s.i)s:
"At the request of Mr-. Laura S,
Itockefeller I herewith hand you Im
Colotndo Industrial Company tie
ci lit gold bonus
to be paid as It
Ministers Home
no long as Iu
foundation It Is
I lie I '.Ml, the Income
accrue,, to the iiaptist
.soeic'y or .New vorK
the Judgment of thi
w is,, to do so Should I
the foundation at any time during .Mrs.
Rockefeller's lifetime discontinue p ly
ing th" Income to that society it is 10
pay
the same 10 sucn wmr oojici
within the corporate pilipo-is i
tlie
foundation as she shall designate.
"If within three months after the
foundation lias advised her In vvr'tlng of
Its purisise to discontinue the fm ther
payment of Income lo th" hrucild.iry
last ilejlgnuted by her, she should not
have appointed another bctietlclary, or If
after her death the foundation shall
determine that It is not wise to con
tinue to apply Ihe Income to the Itap
tlst Minister Home Society of New
York, or such other object as she has
designated, the foundation may then do
termine to what object the Income of the
fund shall thereafter be applied, and
tuny aim In It discretion dispose of thu
prliielp.il."
Power Given tn Foundation.
Mr. Murphy's letter concludes with
the statement that the foundation Is to
have power to sell the IkuhIs :uid re
invest the proceed and change ihe In
vestment from lime to time as It deems
wise, "lull the bonds Mid their proceeds
shall be kept upon Its books as a Sep. J
urate fund."
Mr. Carlton points out that ten of the .
bond transferred In th" Hoekefeller j
Foundation were previously hi Id by the I
Kquitahle Trust Company under the
same powers under which the.v were
transferred to the lUs-kefcibi' Founda
tion. Tlie fight to obtain a Tederal charter
for the Incorporation of Ihe Hoekefeller
Foundation was begun nearly six years
ago by Senator Hailing) r, who Intio.
duced the bill In the Senate on March 3.
1910.
The light In the House of Itepre
sentatlves was. led by Mr. Triers of
Massachusetts, who Introduced the tlrst
Mil In 1!'12 for the foundation' Incur-
poratlon In th" District of Columbia. He
wiih vigorously opposed by Hepresela
lives Fowler of Illinois and Shackleford I
of Missouri. On February 1, HHi, at
modllled bill wab Inlroduied by Mr.1
Peters, which was defeated on April It!, I
1912. On the third trial, however, on j
January 111, 1913, the Tders bill passed
the House 152 to 65, after many modi
Mentions, and went to the Senate, which
M.::'. ,i,- 1.. 1...
D, itockefeller, Jr., president of the
: ' . . .-'.. ...... .......... ., ... .
llociieieuer r ouiitiaiioo. iiemie ine rco.
ernl Industrial Itelatlnns Commission on
January .,
ftindh worn
1915, the foundation' total!
1103,950,81", eif which 12.-
921.5)17 wa uiiexH'ndeil Income. Ac
cording to Mr. Itockefeller' testimony
Ihe total amount of gifts, I minding the
personal dlbhursemenl of Mr Itoeltefel
Itr, Hr was B,:i9,60S,t. Th" gf and
pledges of the foundation trom Deceip.
her 6, 1913. to Kebruury , 1J5,
amountetl to ll,T8,i.
BARNARD GIRLS QUIT
whw kauu)al rArisK
Other
Kill tors of Columbia
riuillriijrp." Out To-day.
Wait Fiivulty Decision.
HAS MOTHKHIIOOI) l'LEA
Member of Faculty Calls Mag
azine Amateurishly Shock
hi''" in Place.
CnWloipe. the new Intercolleulate
! in.iBar.lne. whleh i- edited In the main
by etil. lento of the School of Journalism,
'iliimbl.i rnlverslC. will b out at noon
' to-day, and n one of the editors said
yesterday: ".ludirliic by the excitement
'around the e.inipu. the editors will tic
oatlotis to the leunl. Miss Kleanor Tar-
ker and Mis llsther K Norton said
that the.v will not lesign even If the
magazine does not meet with the ap
proval of the facultS. The tfthcr mem
bers of the iKiard said that they will
"stick by their guns for academic free,
ilom for students."
One article In the advance copy an
liein.ttes the nrolMble npixvltlon and
plea Im IP- speeen amoiic coi-,
lege student. However, the Issue is
not so radical as was exacted.
lbeft f Ihe Mmxailnc.
In their prospectus the editors sav :
Clmll'mir is a magazine organized
to stimulate the f discussion of
opinion among Aineii'-an students, p.
the e-id that rath American college
and unlerst may become a eon--clous.
informed arid Intellectual
democracy
The editors welcome loutrlbiitlons
from college men and college women.
Aii.v article of lllerar merit which
expresses .1 definite and pertinent Idea
w.Ii Is- carefully riad and printed,
provided consideration of space per
mit. 1 hull' 'I'll- offil-s the htudenta of
America all oppwrtunlt t redeem
tbems'lve. in the c.s of the public
and lo ileiiion-trate that they are In
deed a thinking pait of th" community
in which tlit live that the.v an- riot
leading the cloistered life of protcitcd
Innocence, and that they are striving
with all the sympathy of out)i to
bring scholarship Into an organic rela
tion with the social life of their fellow
men.
"It l certain that Dean Glldcndecve's
Mint of view and ours as to what con
stitutes fie, ilom of speech and freedom
tin 'iiociione of a of press do H"t coincide, sa'd one edi
aUeg.d that thtsejmr. "We ,-r willing lo give h,-r the
opportllllliv to vvrne an anion on tree
specc 1 Hid ac will pilnt It provided, of
toiirse. that it comes up to our literary
stand. ml "
I Winn copies of the magazine get into
, the hands of President Rutler and Pe.m
! C.lliletsleeve the ar'lde that Is txpected
to cause a storm of crltlcl-m Is "The
.Menace of Plattsbiirg." written by Silas
IT Seadlei, a junior In the School of
Journalism, who snt Mve wteks in the
mlllftr.v camp last summer. It was
feared that Ihe tiov eminent would pre
vent the magazine from going through j
tlie malls because or lit contents.
I MtneUs I'lnttshnric rump.
The parts from which trouble was
expected told of the soldiers' life outside
01 'lie inilliai. eno 01 II, lite ..-oii.-..,.'ii ,
J appealing to be of exceptional cases'
rather than of general ones, ,
1 nn the page opposite Seadler's article
. one t.v Charlis Kd ward itus-ell. one
time
intlldale of the Socialist pirty for
1 ,-,,Vrr,or of
New York. Itussfll defends
bis advo. 10 .v of preparedness.
tieorge II Sokol-k. Sculler's class.
Iiinle. Ill Ills appeal for academic free
dom showed that he did not agree with
Nit hula Murray lliitler. president of tlm1
university, In his attitude toward the
students. Sokolsk said that academlo 1
freedom for protes.ors had been attained 1
and that It was now up to tlie student
to get It. He wrote III part.
Tlie president of Columbia Univer
sity leventls spole of "students com
nilttnl to our I'.uc" ami referred lo
the null. uors among tbcin who would
beguile the Innocent .v until from tho
ways of his fathers to a recognition
of the Import of socialism, suffrage
itud prohibition, as undesirable factors
In college life. Now President 1 ill t lor.
who lias proved himself to be one of
the foremost exponents of academic
freedom for member 'f Hi" faculty,
tloes not tin himself Justice when ho
speaks of his students III this loose
fashion.
A university Is not an Insane ny.
him or a prison to which ono Is com
milled. The choice of a university
Is In almost all Instances voluntary;
students viiiin' to Columbia or liar
vard or Vale 'or any university be
cause attractive coiiisc are given, be
cause the faeulH has a message, or
because I lie proiessionai schools are
10 their liking The rah-rah boy, for
example, wilt not go lo Columbia be
cause Ihe atmosphere there Is not con
dudie to plaMiiliicss, The .socialist,
011 111" other hand, will probably not
go 10 the Cnlvefslty of Pennsylvania
because of Iba Insidious Intcrfeience
of the trustits.
Parents do not any longer Insist
upon their children following family
tradition In the choice of a college;
universities advertise their wares and
students, reviewing the situation In
the numerous educational Institutions,
of America, decide upon that one
which most suits Ihulr temperament
and purpose.
M. Lincoln Schu-ter, "17 J, wrote in
President Hut lor Iu order to clear up
any misunderstanding as to tlm atti
tude of Chtillt iife.
n Worry h Hit Tncul,
Seciclnry Frank D. Fackcnthal said
that the faculty was not silling up nights
worrying about tho magazine. II,. i,,..
i lleved Mint th" editor went good si,,.
: dents and would not do nnyihlnir to
.1.11. .nt.. Cohllnh a 11 tint s ..r .1...
..... .,..- uini
""f'11 Ie .leninl inai President llutler
hail mad" nny attempt to suppress the
magazine, saying tliai all decision would
be reset veil lllilll il copy was oldHiuable,
S. bllslcl', III 111 letter In Presldenl Hut
1, r said .
"Thi iisscl tloti that ChtiUtHfir I a
socialist liiag.ullie s false Cullciiie
Is mil the nrgiiii of any party, sect,
CWImril or. Ftth Prgt.
US.PeaceArmyofl47,000MlM HOLDS
25,000 in War, House Plani
Hay's Committee Bill, Ready in Ten Days, to Provide
for Federalizing National Guard and a 1,200,000
Trained Reserve in Ten Years.
COST FIRST YEAR IS
Wamii.s'iitu.v, Feb.. 21. Work on the
tlrst draft of tho army features of Tresl- ,
dent Wilson's national defence pro
gramme was completed In-day by the
House Committee on Military Affairs.
Coiimlwiit- win, ii. nni,i ..!..-,, il...... f'
Administration o.iiciais. .he committee
got down lo business, and assurances I
have been given that the measure w III '
be reMirted for action bv the House I
, , ,, , .... ., 1
early In March, l or the llrst lime the ,
Tri-slilent and bin advisers arc able to i
seo d.i light ahead on the piTpatedness
bills mid nrc hopeful timt the Naval
Committee of tin- llou-e will soon follow
the lead of the Military Committee
The urmy bill, as tilltutlv.lv agreuli
to, is ba-cil U the mllltla sstein. so
far is Its reserve features ale con-
eernetl, which has been condemned by
i i...
army experts. The ijarrlson continental
army Plan is thrown overboard In re-
i g.tru to the regular anny. Hie incleas-s
1 atiiiroxlmatc thofv rcooniinendcd b Mr,
I t!arrloii,
I The bill Mi Its present form Increases
i,.. ,...t..t.i....i ,......i. ... .i. .......i..ii
.... nuxii'M.ni r.irilh.ll 'O III': IVh
t.en.v fe...., IfiiVriao ,.. nrt.t ....... ....I
the nutnber of ottlcers from ..-,ni to '
7,0rt0. The new l.tw relating to tin
reg-per-
ilia r army Is to be so framed ux to
mil the expansion of this fore to
"on nun In time of war.
I I'or n Trained Itrirrtr,
The bill nronoses the ere:, t inn of
) reserve to be made up of honorably dl-1
charged men of ihe regul tr army and! .""J provision ror .mo olllcers for
those who retire from the mllltl 1 after 1 and colleges that afford military
three years servl.e. ottlcers from the j training 'Is nn Important change. Here
reserve are to be iivrulted from lhel,"ori .udy one ofllcer has lit en detailed
mllltla and by the formation of what arei'" :l" Institution, n.r example, the L'nl
known as cadet companies these com. vers'ty of Illinois with a student Isvdy of
panics to be tsiinposeil of men specially
trained In military science.
Tlie capacity of the West Point Mill
lary Xcademy Is to ! doubled, the sum
of fiSn.non to be made .mniedlatelv
available to provide the additional ac
fominodatlens that will be required
ine enlarged corps of cadets.
,-,,a 1 1 . ,l",mlrnl" ,rl" '"-
' '; former Se,-,.t..r of War
I giving thi: pr,den, a, , hod, ' p. draft I
t the stato organlzaiion- In tl i.e of war 1
and empowering the Secretary nf War,
to veto selections of ottlcers made by
the troverriors of tlie re-pectlve States.
The bill will authorize the establish-1
merit nf an ammunition plant to lie con
ducted by the (Jnv eminent In ennjiine-l
Hon with private enterpilse, this plant
to be capable of turning out Immense)
quantities of powder and ammunition in,
time of war
The bl.l provides that moie than 7"" '
olllc rs of the regular ,ii-i y sh ill be
detailed lo various schools .mil , ollege.,
one otllcer for eve. v unit of I"" pupils
at the various Ins' tiitluhe iceincd.
Federnllinllon of (iiiHrtl.
Perhaps the mint Important feature
of fie bill l that dealing wltli the
National Hnard, Inasmuch as this lie1"
latlon I substituted for the Harrison
continental army plan.
Klghlten members of the Military
Committee were present to-dav win n the
trmy measure was tentative, c id"ptnl
,-t
11 single -i ember called for a vole
on ihe continental annv. The commit
tee proct oiled to draft the provi'lons
relating to the mllltla without men
tioning the Harrison plan It l 011
tclnled by llepresentatlve II. t.v and oilier
members of t", comi Ittee that fed
eralizing the mllltla will prove iftcitlve
In every wav.
It provides that ntllcers and men who
enter th" mllltla shall serve for six
ear periods, three of which shall be
with the colors and thru in the rc.
serve The equipment, tr lining and
disciplining of the mlllila will be pro
scribed b.v emigres- iinib r uelfo-m
rubs. It I provided that In c.ts, of
war tbe President may draft these
troops without requisition "tl the various
Hove mors.
The Secretary of War may pi escribe
such qualifications for militia officers as
h" nmy see tit. Training of the militia
will l regulated by the Secretai.v of
War In time of peace, In the matter
of equipment and training the same gen.
oral rules will obtain throughout the
mllltla service.
It Is contended b some (iovernnr that
they have the power to inater out mill
tin organlzHlons. An ivin- piohlbltlon
ngnlnst such muster out will be carried
by the bill. As the bill provide that
tlie President may use the mllltla as he
see- Ht tn time of war and elves a
large measure of Federal control In
peace times, it Is contended by Chairman
Hay that the State organizations will
b- federalized to an extent that will
make the mllltla ontlicly responsible In
case of trouble.
Ciiiistlf iitlnnnt, s,t Hi perls.
"Aide lnwera have examined thee
provision and bold thai they are not In
1 violation of the Constitution, although
1 the Federal Hovernmint Is given all the
control that I so urgently nieded over
j thee farces In lime of war," said Chair-
I man Hay.
Tlie lull bring UP the Mithonctl
' strength of the mobile nrmy in 1:1:.. mm
'men by adding ten regiments of infin
ity, four regiments of Held artillery.
' llfty-two companies of coast ailllleiy
ami ilfleeu companies of engineers. In
iidilltl'ir four aeii.il squadron are an
tliorizod. . Ily adding the complementary fun "
to th" Quartermasters' I iep.il tinerit ami
'tlie Hospital Corps, the size of the leg.
tilar army tn really Increased in 117..
dOO men. This Is the anny on a pe
1 footing. II Is a skeleton form of or
' gaiilzatlon that may be expanded In lime
of war In 275,000 men by tilling lip these
regiment t" their full authorized quota,
I II .s the opinion of Mi' liny that If th"
' 1,111 ts enacted Into law in ten )ears fmni
the date of its enforcement th,. Tnited
State will have a trained reserve of
I nearly 1.011.000 men, dependent of coutse
'on the nuiuher of enlistments, At
present the term of enlistment In th..
I regular army la seven veils - four yens
, with the color and three years with the
reserve, It is pointed um in it th" rc
serve miner ine pieein i.iw n a, neq
- -. v....d...i....,
-" ,
I last and that
annv otlleeis eiiinaie inai it wilt ap
proximate 1 t'.tui fi men on N'oveinbt r I of
this year.
II tins b. en sllgg
term of enlisted Hi'
to three yini", thu
,-tisl It'll Itte e,v
i siiotiid be ifiliiied
'i.isieiiing Hi" work
"MITW VOKK 11.1)11111 !: Il"
Klne.l train in linrltli ltenrl At'inilc
C.wsl Line. :il I'.M, ilall Kb (trio Ilshied,
rUnbiE Cr rv- Ofllcr, ft a A tJth St
-Adv.
PUT AT $155,000,000
" "1' oi a reserve. n ie esu- .
mated that wlttiili two years from the
date of the operation of the law T.'i.UOH
..r t... I...-.- .... . .. . .. i
men a jear will be tratisVired from tho
colors to the reserve, thus giving a re
set ve force of 7."u,0U0 men In ten years
front the regular army
ilonc. To this
:';;;;1;;;;v0't H'zzxxr '
fn.br the bill the mllltla may be In-1
creased to about IS.'.Oi'k) men. The
J!'11"!" '' ",''"1 "" ' M' ,'
1 sti-l men and petty oftlcers will be paid
01,P.follrlll r u'1() Pon,,nMol, Ki,Pn to
the corresindlng griulm In tlie ri-gular
army hi this basis privates will receive
4x a ve.tr. Mllltla Captains will be
paid J.'.oo ,i year. First Lieutenants 3iKi
and Se. mid Lieutenants tlT.t. I
.Means ate pinvlded for tl dncalloii
of otlleeis io silpplv the uig. lit needs III.
tl.ln lej.trd that would In. felt In lime of
i... .... ... . .. - '
war. in tlie 111X1 place, tile output oi ,
olli.ers at West Tolnt Is to be doubled.
military education In schools and colleges
u ... i. ...n........A.t .... .1.. ....i I
,.. ... riivniH i.r.1 inih.i .nil' ..iiv.
In addl-lon there, arn to be thirty "cadet
companies," compo.ed exclusively of men
from the mllltla and men trained In mill-
1,.,.. - ,
,ir I1ISIIS.
. 'u''1 '"ompany
will be of 1 00 men.
I pon appointment they will serve ope ,
enr In the regular army and on the ex
piiatlon of the period will be transferred '
10 the reserve. Appointments to the
ladet loinpanles will be made by the
President. While serving In the regular
armv those men will bo paid lino a
mouth.
O'lO taking military trainlmr has had
one oillcep only.
For the military purr-r.s of the War
I'epartm.nt this year Congress appro
priated about MTE.Ouii.Onu and It Is c-
ac : iimate.l that under the new pl.ni the ex-.
forii.cn., f ti,.. Department would run up
to about M55.OD0.000 the Jlret ear of Its
operation, with advanced cost as the
l4lmy ,,., ,, .
ISSnK w" :l0lf1,lo":"
. " " nt. ,' nUlrf,!. In the .w:l of F?''
. .e..t nt.i.vo not, oilier U1IUK3
require! to conduct the military estab
iisimieiii. f-ecretary of War Harrimu
submitted estimates that would havo
brought the cost of the new establish
ment up tn $12,000,000. Tho Hay bill
will fall slnue, of this amount by at least
It 5. mill, "HO.
Whit is regards t by Chairman Hay
as on,, of the nie.it Important measures
of prop.i edniss ever proise,l bt the au
thor'.at!on for the operation of a plant
i apatite of turning out alt sort of am
miinttlo.i it, tl,,,, f n,,r Thu pn.xidc
that sip plant shall be operated bv r!;..
Hovernmeiit on a partnership basis with
cm. tic capital
Tlie President Is authorized, lo appoint 1
a iru i sen-el a site for this plant
OWEN WISTER'S ODE TO WILSON
Head Wn.hlimton Wonlit
ami lllnsl Vnur Mini."
Wake
1 'ti 1 1 vta.i
thi author,
I'lltv. Feb. 21. Owen Wl-ter
gave out the folN-uing noom
to-d.iv fm publication
"To Wool, now Wir.sov:
191C."
Not net, if I pn.r.'ssrd
sp. eel.
Tebru.i ry
it.
Mtir twi.t
In I
Hid I to ike anv (tit for utfl nt irmt
I V on'.
wtirin.st vtiurs.if
i'i'.iii,i ui'urrlp-
1 1, hi - reiica .
re-,i ti .' ,h, 'ttiithed jou woulj become
aiilr,,-
S..t lr. .ir.-,t . !i, .,f n il (.tines
ll. i. wnhit.,1 emperors hy hrr
llerce
... ,, I'OOII
1 1 is ..i-x lis- ..,.he that have flu),.,
th
t if ptil.li. ants. hMirmrlt. p,iltr..nns
Veil " niiiinuie cs.,i tn jr if-i -te,.in.
Til. n, xi aorld r.uimn seuhe you, nnr
an 'hi.
.Vo fa.i . nt -t.i'i ihriiuKh our rt.uinl.iiint
l-etlll
.S.ir pr. sent liiughtcr, nor the future's
Ms
llui if It- fniher. dltt Hits land cnntrnl,
li. .ol VV .i-'illif.iin would wake and Wast
oil .nl,
tJIVUS WlSTKR.
: YOUTH BARS AST0R FROM CLUB.
I'm I in neiicb Directors Won't
Hove lie'
lie-
Tv M Hk.vi
Feb. 21. The oulj cloud
in 'he M,v for Alp. and .Mm. Vlnc.jti
Astm, vvi.o began their tlrst Palm Ite.ieh
visit .M'stenltiy, W that they cannot gat
into Hie Iteach Club, one of the in,,, i
exclusive In the country, which has cut !
its list down to Kd, l( I the age limit !
that keeps .Mr. Astor out.
Hermann Odrlch, tT,t m.u, at lus
vvtddliig, bctirrletl aruuinl to-day trying'
to prove tliat Mi Astor I 2ii, lint failed 1
to niiihc mil a r.ieo anil the decision of
the lUrcotots iiminst hi ndmltsslon
will not be changed. Mr. Oelrlchs gave
a tinnier nil Hie Asiorsi Ill-lllgnt in the
liarilni Hrlll.
PANAMA HONORS WASHINGTON.
To-ilnv Is Declnreil n l.egiil llol.
H In I stll ill I it il llepnhlle,
s;iei.i i.ifis lr,initei lo Tur ?i v
T.vnv.mv. Fob. SI. President porr.n
has Issued a dectte declaring tn-niomiw
a legal holiday. Panama will ban. ,x
big Waslilngton's llii thday celcbiMtloii
on th" exposition grounds
liosldcnt porr.i and AcluK Hovoi-
nof Morrow of the Canal Zone will re.
view a parade of American soldiers,
Panama police and Canal Zone and
P.innliri lltetnen,
Till la the tlrst time that a Tn.ieil
Slates holiday bus been ntllelally do.
clued a legal holiday In the i'.cjiulillc
of T.in.nn.i
PARIS MIDINETTES MAY STRIKE
llll.llllll llrossiiinkerN -.iippurt He
iiintiil for llefetre War WiiKes,
s). .,. (Wife Kiji.trr. bi The Six
I'viiis. Fob 21 The ilressiiialiol of
Pail aic lliiealinlns a strike affecting
iiii.oiin workei-, on account of tin
cftls.il
nl tlie mg iii'csMuai,ing in os,.-, to tiav
the wage- picvalllng Iteforo Hie
iiolvi ilbrt.i.id.li.' that these houses have
bad a proi-pt mile season :i the Anici,
an i, uh
The piess gellel.llK slppol. mo
nndlitf ties woo. , ic, oiiling o report .
ale leiolving minimum wages while the
houses will, li employ them ar lluurbh
lug. I
CONFERENCE ON
U BOAT CRISIS
Senate and House Loader
1N'Ijm1 to SiH'ivc.v
About 3Icetin'
... , ,. . , . , ,.,
I'li.l.N r) (t J
COXCI'lllTKI) ACTION
Breach With (tcniian.v In
iliralcil if She Fails to
Assure. F. S.
31 A V
NOT WAIT
Foil LOSS OF MFB
Deriisttul'I's Disfavor With
Lansing Held to W Still
a Factor.
WASilt.viiT.tV. H'b. 21 - Piosiilem Wil
son summoned lo the White Hiuis" th
evriiliig Senator Stone, .ii.u, man of tit
Sena'" Foreign lld.itiotis Committee;
Hoprcbont.it iv e Flood of Virginia, chair-
mm of lh" House Conunltti n Forelm
Affairs, and Senator Kern of Indiana,
the IVmo.-ratlc leader of the Sennit;.
The confercliie rtialul to inttni.illoti.il
affairs, but strict secrecy was main
tained as to Its purisi.-e Those who t.
tendtd th" White House meeting wor
plcilgeil by thu President nut to ,1!.
cuss the detail of tlie conference. .
The gathering at the While House, tol
lowtsl by unusual efforts at secrecy, lev!
to all sorts of speculation in Washing
ton to-night. The fact that the sub
marine Issue Is again Hearing a cr!b,H
ari'l that State Department otllclalb admit
the possible gravity nf tho situation
laustil by llennany's announced purpos
to torpedo armed merchant vessels In
mediately led lo tho conclusion that thin
was the feature of our International re
lations that engaged the attention of Hi
conferees.
Tho mere fact that President WiNon
had called the Congress loaders- to
gclher at thl time was. regard-d
significant, for It has not been h.s iui
lorn to consult them In icg.trd ' for
eign affairs except on euie or two wa
Mens when Important tlev.di.ptnt nt
worn pending In the Admnlslration'
Mexican policy.
Ao .New Crist Inllnmleil.
While th" general assumption wu
that the situation with Hernial' was
tesponslble for the conference, lb. Inti
mation was plainlv tonv id bv one of
the conferees that no new if si- hid de
veloped.
Doubt was expressed whether the
VI-
ministration Is consider. ug anj leg,
Hon In couiieitiiin w th the new j
raised by Hirmaii.. w li di prov I
a curtailing of the rights of mi
to travel on armed liinrs and on vo
carrying munitions of war
Tp to this linn the Admit
has shown no disposition in -iipp -
'
ue
i Iu"
'I v
legislation and tl" f- s ' u "Ha I '
abihtv tjiat tho President would t.ivot It
The general be," f ,1, Was, -.-li , ,s
thai th- Pivslib nt. realizing thii' the I,
sue wltli Hciin.iii.v is again .ippniafhltijr
il ciitK.il slid, dcslie.l to t ike tbe
loaders of Congress into lus cot itdnr.ee
and to give lllclll Ills views ,,s t : ,iv
discussions sli.iuiil be handled m. IV
lloor of the House and tfm Senate
There ar indli apotis that Senator
Hoofs attack Ue. the Admit. IM'nttoti
Is about to 'bring on a renewal of the
bitter debito In Congress on foreign re
lations and It is l -lievi l Unit t'n Pte
blent ileslled to c've the Congie lend
rs lit vit ws as to what should b
don, ponding th" development "in' are
pertain to onine l.ef.ite Marc i 1 tie
late on which C, rui my ii, w ubmarqio
decree will li. prune ilT'V'lvi
Oltlclals of the State Peptrtnie'it me
mark.iig time awaiting word from tie--
,m iis t.. win thot or not she i- wMbng
j to sqiiai" her recent siituuai Ira tliclara-
rlon with lite previous assu. unci s um:
tlm permit a si ttlouient of the Liifi-
tani.i cac in iictsird.il 'e with the Arne-t.
can in mantis.
White ollldals of the Department In
sisted to-day that technically the Tultd
Stales has not ileuiauib'tl outright a ni'ul
itlcat Ion of the r'-eent decno. they i'e
claretl that Mr. Lansing had Im it b
known to Count von lb rnsto-ff rhat a
I kl tllcu.ent of the Lil-l'iuila cas) t ou d
not bo made so long as Heimmiv m i!n.
. ruine.i the right to inl. wilhnu vs i-n.
lug merchantmen lirmod for def nt
Willi only eight days rematmnr bo
fore the new snbma'rine campaign In to
be started by both Honna'iy unl Atistiin,
the tension ni State Deparlniei t eir le
ts stcul-l.v t.ghtonlng titlictalu wt: t,
far to-day lo admit that the 1 . , e)
States may not Willi until Anioriciin lives
were lost b teiimn of the operation of
the in vv decree, but may foice matter
entirely on the gtiuind that liermany Mat.
failed to satl-fv the t'nltod States In tlm
Lu.-itanla i .ise
Tiii't'fiist ttf ..itlitn,
mi t ild tiis new ilooreo go into , ff.-i
vvltlioul ftirtbor word from Herman., n
the me- nt me ,,r should Ctermany Iv
I ween now vnd Mnvh I boldly !
oil her "(gilt to torpedo armed sh j n
without warning It is though' privti.,!,.
that the I'mtcil Slate will Iminetll.lte'v
iire.ik of; ihe ctmililcntl.il nogotlatior.s
wltli Count von lleinstorff and : a
formal ante to the Herman (iovtriirnent,
through nih.ist..iilnr Horard iit He Hi,
m-.-t mi an rnmeillat" coiupllaiuc w.rh
i he Vuiei'ii in v n w point
Vih.iiig'i otll'ials ale careful to vouch
h i'e no pietlidl ms as lo the outcome
t , 1. 1 1 il'ii, is are not lacking that they ar
plop i ol. f feiess.ir, to push thi. mat
toi to the point of a severance nf tllplo.
I tint '. lol.ii
l was itiaUiil that th, ncg'U minis
liad i1:iio-i rc itiit'il that po, it isd'ore liic
'a. t iticmtii aiidiiiii w,,s i, -,1 i'i...,
llei-t'l . W II 'dl prlie to pub. il'Of of be
lioW i icr.ii.ili subiu.i In. ,ed ir.ilion 'be
m.i , 1 ii pat tin, nt u.i .i .,ii-,1 to ac
, .ic as In i g i nibsi int ,1 aieenienl
w tb t no im rli a , domain!"
Mthoiigii Sccint i" i i'i. uig armln
took ocoaslnn tii-da tn dcn repot t t
