iyy.w.ff Miipi!g)i VgWySJllt'WUJWg
NIGHT
EXTRA
Blrtgr
ittmtmj
NIGHT
EXTRA
r Y0L.II.-NO.138
-i,l
PUIXiADMiPIIIA, TUESDAY, FJEURUAltY 'J2, 1!)10.
CortmonT. 1010, t tm rouo Lxdom CovriNt.
PItlOE (XN"J3J CENT
"wm i'mpsBtaww1"''! "nmw4"1"'' - whsjpr' '
51
a
fit
GERMANS SMASH FRENCH
FIRST AND SECOND LINES AT
GIVENCHY AND NEAR VERDUN
Djght Hundred Yards
of Trenches in Ar
tois Captured by
Teutons
Seven Battalions Take Part in
Attack That Sweeps French
From Positions Gained East
of Souchez Last Spring
Paris Admits Loss Guns First De-
. mohsh Entrenchments Tei rifle
Losses Suffered by Kaiser's
Troops, but Newly Won Lines Are
Held Fast
PAH IS. Teh 22
Eevcn Genii-m battalions, by a most
violent attack against the Trench front in
the Boles Glvenchy region, In Artols, cm
rled more than half a mile of Trench
first lino trenches nnd also second lino
trenches In m.in places, the Fiench Wnr
Office admitted this nftcrnoon.
The Teutons occupied llrst lino Trench
positions on a front of more than 800
yards. B hcavv 1'icnch counter-attacks
they were repulsed from practically all
the second-line positions
The War Olllco leported tint the Ger
man losses w ero v ery heav y
The attack, Mlilch was a very strong
one, was carried out after a v iolcnt bom
bardment which virtually wiped out tho
French defense o works. Unormoua losses
hate liceti suffeicd hy the Germans in
their nttneks north of Verdun In that
region tho Invadus captutcd somo ad
vanced trenches and somo supporting
trenches, but wero afterward diiven from
the latter Heavy forces of men aro bo
Inis thrown foiwnrd by tho Germans, who
have resumed tho mas&cd formation at
tacks Tho text of the communique) follows:
"In Artols after tho lolont bombard
ment of tho Germans, which was rofcrred
to in tho communiques on Monday, tho
enemy carried out a strong attack on our
positions in tho forest of Glvcnchy nnd
eucceded In penetrating our first lino ovor
a front of 800 yards
. uu u ennui, li.ivuii uj miu uuiiiiuuq
tin,l liAAti Tio.,Hfi lit. ,Aulrmr,wl liV lllrt
German cannonado. Tho Germans also
mccecded In enteting at several points our
second lino works, but nfter a counter
attack they woro ejected from somo of
the positions which they had wrested from
us. At tho conclusion of tho fighting tho
holdings of tho Germans wero small
"Ihe cnemv. whoso troop3 In this at
tack numbered at least seven battalions,
Buffered lie.iy losses from our hand
grenades and tho flio of our infantry
and mitrailleuse
'To tho southeast of Mnlincourt tho
enemy exploded a mine, tho crater of
which was ociupicd by us
"In tho region of Verdun tho activity
of tho artillery has continued without
abatement 'I ho Germans attacked on
Monday about the hour nf hunsct, tho
assault being llrcctcil against out posi
tion east of liiabant-hur-JIeuso between
the llaunict wood and Ilebo-Bols
"They succeeded in gaining a foothold
In Bomo of our advanced trenches and
pushed forward to our second-lino
trenches, but our counter-attacks ejected
them from tho latter (tho supporting
trenches) and forced them to retire, leav
ing In our hands EO prisoners. To tho east
of Scppols (Upper Alsaco) two German
attacks wero icpulscd.
"There has been great activity by tho
Continued, on 1'iiKe Tour, Column One
NUOVI DISSENSI TRA
BULGARI E TEDESCHI
Sofia Domanda alia Germania
Un Sussidio Mensile di
Guerra di $50,000,000
Tclegramml da Honm dlcono die nuovl
dissensl sono scopplati tra tedeschl e but
Wrl 11 governo bulgaro avrebbe domand
to alia Germania dl aumentargll II sua
tldlo dl guerra Blno a 50 millonl dl dollar!
a tnese Vn regglmento tedesco si e' 1m
Prow Isamente rltlrato da Costantlnopoll,
dove si era recato per mantenero 1'orUlne
reiiu. capitaio turca.
II MInUtero della Guerra Itallano ha
annunclato die nulla dl nuovo vl e sulla
fronts Halo auatrlaca. Aviatorl nustrlacl
avevano tentato dl fare un raid su Mllano,
ma non vl Bono rluscltl, essendo statl
JneBsl In fuga da aviatorl Italian! e dalle,
oatterle dl cannonl speclall all aviatorl
austriacl hanno, Invece, potuto bombard
ys Veaenzano, Salo' e Trezzo, nella zona
del Lago dl Garda, dove hanno fatto
Quaatro vlttlmo tra borghesl ed hanno
ferlto parecchiu parsone, Benza rlusclre ad
arrecare dar.nl apprezzablll agll stablll
neiul mllltarl ltallanl.
Telegramml da Petrograd dl cono che
'9 forzq russe operatl In Asia Sllnore con
Unuano la loro avanzata su dl una fronte
" 20Q mlglia o che U loro ala dectra e'
giunta a circa 40 mlglia da Treblsonda
(Leggere In 4a pagina le ultimo e plu'
aettagliate notlzla Bulla guerra, In Ital
lano )
i TJm WEATHER
FORECAST
,,For Philadelphia and vjci'nu
Warmer, 1
LOST AND TOUND
fcWoaiNBI UST -Lot talwata Loan q
nil Ilrofld Bt 8ttluo ft KolJ iunbuml with
Sr "'19 lliiaiond ciatr ThurdWy rownrJ.
SU. itiii io4 Ch.jtaut.
Teutons Win Strong
Positions From French
In two smashing offensives tho
Germans hnve swept tho French
from their first-lino trenches nnd,
at one point, penetrated the second
line of defense, pnit of which they
still hold.
The attacks wero made upon
trench positions nt Givcnchv,
northeast of Arras, in Artois, and
in tho sector north of Verdun.
Eight hundred yards of trenches
weie taken in tho Givcnchy attack,
which was picccdcd by a terrific
bombaidment.
The positions gained were pnit
of those lost to the French last
spiinR in the fighting that centred
about Souchez, Neuvillo nnd Gi
vcnchy. In the Veulun battle the Ger
mans won trenches nt Binbants
Urmeuse. The fighting in this sec
tion is still l aging fiercely. In
Champagne, northeast of Tahure,
a French attack failed, accoiding
to a Beilin lepoit.
Church Robbery Suspects Held
Two men who were ai rested on mis.
plclon of h i Ing robbed the Catholic Chun h
of St John tho Uaptlst, Maiinunk, weio
held under $100 bnll foi a further healing
tudav by Mnglstiuto Pi Ice in the liana
junk Htatlon Detective McLaughlin tes
tified that the men h id been seen In tho
parish houso tho night before the robbery
Tho men nro "And ' Wisloskv. 25 veins
old. of lino Apple Mtieet. and John Viola,
alias Troggs, 22 jcars old, of 4120 Sllvcr
wood street
JUSTICES OF THE
iirli IHIJI: J--V - llMMfW ' il Li i,l IMM
Left to right, Robert S. Frnzer, Robert von Moschziskcr, S. Leslie Mestrc
Potter, John Stewart. Justice Walling, the new member
CRONES SOUGHT HERE
ON TIP OF FIREMAN
City Employe Says He Saw
Man on Train Answering
Poisoner's Description
Tho police of this city aro Investigating
rcpoits that Jean Crones, foimer iiBslst
nnt chef of tho University .Club of Chicago,
la In Philadelphia
Crones Is alleged to havo nttempted to
murder neatly 200 persons ;vho wero at
tending a banquet given In honor of Arch
bishop Mundcleln In Chicago by putting
nrsonlc In tho boup served to tho diners.
Somo Importance was attached to tho
reports today vvhon William Sillier. B01
Hast Haines btrcet. a dty fireman, re
ported at tho Potcctlvo Ilureau that ho
saw a man resembling Crones on a Now
York train bound for this city on Sun
day night
According to Miller, ho boarded tho
New Yoifc train lit Wavno Junction nt
It 40 o'clock and upon entering one of
tho coaches noticed a man and woman
sitting across tho nlsle from him who
were unmistakably nervous IIo do
scribes tho womnn as young nnd clothed
In black, vvhllo tho man answers to tho
police description of Crones and woro a
dark overcoat and dark soft hat Mlllor
abserts the actions of tho two were so
peculiar that his attention was contin
ually drawn to them, but that he had no
Idea the man was Crones until he saw
a picture of tho Chicago chef printed In
a Philadelphia nevvspipor today
Sillier, who Is a signal operator at fire
headquarters. Juniper and Itace btreets,
said tho description of Crones given by
the police of this city tallied exactly with
that of tho man he saw on tho train IIo
will return to City Hall later In tho day
to Identlf) several pictures of the alleged
murderer. Detective Blatteau has been
assigned to work on tho case In this
city.
"I AM JEAN CRONES," SAYS
PHONE VOICE IN BOSTON
New England Police Renew Search
for Soup Poisoner
BOSTON, Teb. 22 Search for Jean
Crones, the anarchist, v ho attempted to
poison the guests at the banquet to Arch
Mundeleln In Chicago, was renewed In
Hoston and other New England cities last
night and today, as a result of a taunting
telephone menage received by the tele
phone operator of a local newbpaper from
a man who declared ho was Crones.
The operator heard a man's voice. In
brokon Ungllsh. baying
"I am Jean Crones"
The operator, pretending she did not
understand, repeated her "Hello." mean
while rushing through an emergency call
to police headquarters on f.not,h "?
and on a third line begging the telephone
company to trace the call before 'Cronea'
could break the connection.
"I am Jean Cronw," said the voice.-
"Spell It," replied the operator, sparring
'"uiw Cron-es. Crones" the voice
spelled out Then, In the rapid, queerly
acc"nUd I way that made it difficult to un
derstand clearly Just what !"'
ranted oa ihe imago, police are after
roe l am on m wa to FluUburg and I
will kill every Catholic I rat.
EXIT COLD; SKATING FINK
Holiday Brings Ideal Weather for
Outdoor Sport
Tho cold wno has gone, but It left
Its respects today with tho finest Wash
Ington's IJIrthdny skating thnt has been
seen In tho city In many a jear
Skntcrs thronged Hunting Park 1ike.
Woodsldo Park Lake nnd Concourse Lake.
In Tnlrmount Park, In a carnival of holi
day fun. llarly this morning tho first
skaters nppearcd nnd soon tho frozen
surfaces of tho lakes wero filled with glid
ing figures Other lakes In tho suburbs
also felt tho keen edges of many skates,
with tho exception or Gustlno Lake, which
was considered unsafe
To nilil a finishing touch to a perfect
dn, It's not ery cold Tho cold wne
faltered at midnight, nnd from a low
mnrk of 17 degrees tho mercury roo to
nboo freezing by noon Tho forecast Is
cloudy and wanner tonight and Wednes
day, with modcrato southwest winds.
OLD MAN PERISHES IN FIRE
Burned to Death While Asleep in Ho
telSix Children Saved
PITTSnunOH, Tcb 22 One mm was
burned to death, sl smnl children were
saved by being tossed out of windows nnd
a property loss of $10,000 resulted from a
llro which today dostroved tho Slater Ho
tel at Wood's Hun
Tinnk Slater, 70 father of Tranl. J
Slater, pioprlctor of tho hotel, was asleep
In his loom when tho IHmes wero ills
covered and, dcsplto hcioic efforts of lire
men to rr.ich him. ho was burned to death
Bishop Van Huron Goes to Shore
Itlshop .Tnnies i: Van Huron left tho
city toiHv for Atlantic t'ltv- to recover
from a slight Illness IIo collapsed In tho
chancel of the Hpiscnpil Church of St
John the Ilvatigellst, Id and Iteid streets,
Inst bund tv evening. Just as he was nliout
to confirm a class of SO candidates Tho
confirmation services wero postponed I In
has been lit In Ills npaitmcnts in tho
Noimandlo since Illshop Van Huron had
been assisting HWiop Ithlnolander In tho
absence of Bishop Suftrag-iii Gniland
SUPREME COURT OP PENNSYLVANIA ATTEND FOUNDERS' DAY
DIVER WALKS ON HIS HANDS
SIXTY FEET BELOW RIVER BED
Trapped in a Conduit, and With Air Supply Cut Off, He
Covers 140 Feet in Perilous
Journey to Safety
Maiiuo annuls contain many tin tiling
ovperlonces of divers, but perhaps no moio
inmautlo tnlo, happening ns it did in a
pioinlo water conduit, wns ever chronicled
than that told today nt tho Torresd do
Filtration Station, on tho Delawaro Itivcr
The hero of tho story In William J
Gannon, a veteran diver, of 162 1 South
22d street, who walked on his hnnda 140
feet to safety, vvhon his nlr supply was
tut off and ho was turned head down
ward In a conduit CO feet below tho river
With lungs almost bursting for nlr. bo
crawled patiently foot by foot, thinking
of his vvlfo and family, until ho emerged
from his submarine prison more dead than
uilve.
Gannon, who Is ono of th best men em
plojed by Snaro &, Trlest, engineering con
tractors, was sent down iuto tho "off
hhoro Intnko" of tho Torresdile filter basin
February 11 to close up a bulkhead In
order to allow Improvements to bo mndo
Iu the basin His underwater routo led
across the floor of the basin, through tho
"Inshoro Intake" Into ho 12 foot circular
conduit that Juts Into ihe Delawaro lllvcr
60 feet below ground To reach this spot
he was compelled to turn tho corner nt
the "elbow" formed by the Junction of the
two "Intakes "
AMBASSADOR GERARD
BREAKS COLLARBONE
Leg; Also Injured When He
Falls While Exercising on
Skis Near Munich
IIIIRUN, Feb 22 United States Am
bassador James W Gerard, "while skiing
today near Munich, fell and broke his col
larbone, his left leg also being Injured,
but not seriously
The crippled diplomat returned Imme
diately to this city and was taken to a
hospital, where an X-ray examination of
his Injuries was made
While the Ambassador is Incapacitated
Joseph C. Grew, of Boston, flrst secretary,
Will act In his place.
Senator Stone Emphatic
on Position of U. S.
WASHINGTON, 'Feb, 22.
Chairman Stone, of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, to
day denied with an emphatic damn
that he and the President have
considered framing a Senate reso
lution warning Americans to keep
off armed merchantmen.
"It's a damned lie, and the man
who said it is a damned liarl" said
the Senator
PENN ORATOR
ECHOES 1776'S
DEFENSE CALL
(Chief Justice Brown Cites
Washington's Prepared
ness Plea
130TII UNIVERSITY DAY
Alumni and Students Hear
Powerful Appeal for Na
tional Patriotism
A conviction, prophet Ic-illy voiced bv
George Washington a century and a quar
ter ngo, that this nitlon must prep ire for
war to preserve peaco with honor nnd dig
nity, was reiterated todny by Chief Jus
tlco J. Hay Drown, of tho Supreme Court
of Ponnsjlvanla, In nn address nt the
130th t'nlverslty Day celebration nt the
Acadomv of Music, before .1000 nluinnl
and students of tho University of 1'enti
sjlvanla The address of the distinguished Jmlst,
speiklnr as orator nf tho dnv, was pow
erful, pitrlotlc, coming ns the voice of
Washington on this his lSlth bhthdnv
A patriotic feivor gripped bis henrers and
siemeil to Inspire tho speskrr ns ho de
veloped his topic, "Washington on Pro
paicdness "
With burning words Chief Justice
Ilrown called for patriotism nnd scored
tho trouble makers within American
borders Appliuse gieoted his declaration
of faith. tha the Picsldcnt and Congress
would stilvc to maintain peuo with honor
and dlgnltv, nnd a silence, tho silence of
doubt and air lety, reigned throughout tho
auditorium when ho cried
"Wo, tho I'nltpd States of America nro
an unprepaied member of tho family of
Continued on 1'nue Two, (nlunin Three
zat, Chief .Tustico Brown, who was the orator of tho day; William P.
of the Supremo Bench, was the tardy member this morning.
"When r got to the Btopgnles 1 Jammed
my nlr valve against tho bldo of tho con
duit," Gannon h.ild "Whllo I wns trlng
to get nt It to turn nil the nlr, thn tldo
turned mo over, feet up, holmct down
I groped for my lifeline to give tho sig
nal, but couldn't find It
'Thero I was, head down, with my nlr
going fast You know when a diver geta
his feet abova his head It's all over with
him unless lio'n pulled out, brcauso tho
feet of hla suit nro filled with air and
keep his head down
"I mado another try at tho valve and
tho lifeline By that time tho blood vvaa
going to my head protty strong I thought
of my wlfo and sK children and decided
to crawl out. That's what I did I felt
pretty groggy when they hauled mo out
Of tho basin "
IIo was asked l( tho weights camo off
his feet.
'Gad, no, man!" he Bald. "I wouldn't
bo hero now It thoy had "
Gannon, who has been a diver 23 years,
hna had othor narrow escapes Ho was
Imprisoned In a submerged ship for 10
hours on one occasion, nnd another tlmo
ho wns pinned under nnothcr vessel fo.
7li hours For seven months after the
Galveston flood he worked lu the salvage
corps there.
15,000 CLOTHING
MAKERS MAY STRffiE
Mass-Meeting Authorizes Exec
utive Board to Order Cessa
tion of Work
Trospect of a strike among tho 15.000
men and women employed In making
men's clothing for big wholesale shops
and smaller dealers In Philadelphia was
brought nearer today by the action of
2000 members of tho Amalgamated Cloth
ing Workers of America, last night. In
delegating to the executive board of the
union the power to call a general strike
throughout the Industry In Philadelphia.
No demands have been sent to the
manufacturers, but Information from the
union headquarters in the Hotel Walton
today was to the effect that the union's
demands would be submitted after a strike
had been called.
The expectation is that a strike will
be called this week, according to Sidney
Hlllman, president of the executive board
of the union. The union has not made
public the nature of the terms the manu
facturers will be atked to accept, beyond
the statement that a 20 per cent Increase
In wages will be one of the demands
"The executive board now has the
power to call a strike, or to deal with the
situation lu any way the members de
cide said Hlllman todav 'However or
ders for a goneral strike will probably
go out In two or three days '
BIG ZEPPELIN
SMASHED BY
FRENCH FIRE
German Airship and Crew
of Thirty Fall 6000
Feet to Death
HIT BY HIGH ANGLE GUNS
Scries of Spectacular Aerial
Battles Fought From
France to Egypt
BEIUilN, Feb. 22. The loss of a
Zeppelin was ollicinlly admitted by
the Gcriunn Wnr Office today. The
report follows:
"A German airship fell a victim to
the enemy's fire during a fight near
Sevigny.
"Numerous aerial engagements
have taken place, probably behind the
enemy's front."
PAULS, Tcb 22
The Germsn "L 7. 77" wns destroved
by Trench high-angle guns Inst' night
and Its crow of .10 men wero killed
Tho destruction of tho liillnnn while It
wns pissing over tho Allied llnei nppar
entlv on Its way to attack Pails, was
offlclallv announced hero todny Tho 5Cep
polln, with nil Its lights extinguished, was
lighted at s 10 last night living ngalnst
the wind It was at an altitude of 0000
feet, and tho Trench Immediately opened
llro with anti-aircraft guns In tho glaro
of illuminating shells tho gunners kept
Continued nn Pace six. Column Hirer
CALLS COP PERJURER
AT ANDERSON TRIAL
Detective Gionnetti Misquoted
Murder Confession, Defense
Lawyer Says
A direct chnrgo Hint Detective Gion
netti, of tho City Hall minder squid, per
jured himself, nhiln testifying ngnliiHt
John F. Anderson, of Ardmore, Okla , on
trial for tho murder of James P Camp
bell, a saliioiikcepci, of J.'d and Market
HtrcetH, September 21, 1915, wna made
today by William A Giny, former Assist
ant District Attorney, counsel for Andei
bon, in closing tho caso for tho defense.
Gionnetti. who wrote tho confession for
Anderbon, which was attacked tluoughout
tho trial as uurcliablo and misleading, told
tho Jury that un inilucementH weio held
out to get tho accused mini to confesa.
Gruy denounced this us a deliberate
falsehood nnd at tho samo tlmo called
upon tho Jury to Ignore (ho confession on
tho ground that Gionnotta, iu writing it,
put his own words and ideas iuto It In
stead of writing exactly what Anderson
had said
Grny surprised tho crowd in the court
room by asking the Jury not to consider
Anderson lnsiue, but to consider him an
"Irresjionslblo agont " Earlier In tho trial
it waa brought out that Anderson had
been confined for a tlmo in an Insauo asy
lum and fqr this reason It waa thought
that Insanity would bo the defense
In tho final plea to the Jury, however,
Gray said Anderson waa buffering from a
hereditary disease, which led to Insanity,
and that ho was weak minded, but not In
sane Gray referred to former Detective
Isaacs, as "the usual typo of policeman
'who la elevated to tho position of detective
w ithout having any brains " Isaac was on
the witness stand fur the Commonwealth
early In tho case.
Although today la a holiday, a special
session of court was called by Judga
Henry to expedite the trial of Anderson
Tho defenbe closed shortly nfter noon
and it Is expected that the caso will go
to tne jury lute tins aitcrnoon Tho trial
began last Wednesday
CA31DEX CIHIiI) TESTIFIES
TO HIS FATHER'S NEfiLECT
Man Sent to Jail for Failure to Sup
port His Family
"My mamma had tuberculosis. My little
sister Florence and I cooked our own
meals, when we had any to cook Yes, I
know It I don't tell the truth I will go to
the bad place"
The testimony of 8-year-old CarJ Har
rison, of 306 Market street, Camden, told
just as simply as could be, resulted today
In his father, C. Wood Harrison, of Penns
grove, being remanded to jail by Itecorder
Stackhouse, of Camden, on a nonsupport
charge He could not furnish $ 300 bond to
guarantee a 3-a-week-order mado In
favor of his wife, Mrs. Anna Harrison
Mrs Harrison said they were married
In 1906 and were happy until two years
ago when she became afflicted with
tuberculosis. Then her husband began to
neglect her and the two children. He
denied it and said he loved his children.
EXTRA
10 DEAD, 16 INJURED
IN NEW HAVEN WRECK
NEW YORK, 1'eb. 22. Ten poisons were killed and 10 Injured
when New Haven passenger No. 70, bound to New York, crashed
iuto a derailed freight near Alllfoid, accoiding to reports to tho Now
Haven offices heic this aftcinoou.
ENGLAND SAVES $2,000,000 A DAY ON SHELLS
LONDON, Feb. 22. England Is saving $2,000,000 a day turougn,
u i eduction in tlie price of shells, it was announced iu Commuos today.
GERMANY DENIES CRIPPLING BELGIAN INDUSTRIES
BERLIN, Tcb. 22. Official denial is made of tho report received
in England by Sir Edward Grey thnt Germany is hindering the im
portation of raw materials in Belgium. It is said thnt Germany is
doing much for Belgium and working the Belgian coal fields to their
capacity, and much of the pioduct is shipped to Holland and Sweden.
TELEGRAPHERS AND RAILROAD SETTLE DISPUTE
TOLEDO, O., Tcb. 22.-A dispute ovci wages existing between
telegtapherb and the Clovei Lenf laihond management lins been set
tled. Neithet side will announce the concesbioiib gianted. It is
aid that aggitgntc iucicuhc of wage to the telcgiaphcis will amount
to $8000 annually. Tin .idv.intus lunge tium )jil to !,Si!0 pel month.
ALLIES' IRONCLADS SHELL BIBLICAL CITY
VTHIJNS. Fob 22 The nnclcnt city of nphesus, In Asia Minor, Is tho latest
biblical town to feel tho wnr. Thteo Anglo-French warships bombarded the
Hphcshin suburbs for several hours, according to Constantinople today. Tho
bombardment waa directed nt tho railway from Smyrna to Aldln, which passes
by tho ruins of tho centurlcs-old town. The Ironclads stood Insldo tho gulf of
Scala Nova tuul dliccted n methodical shell llro at tho railway, whllo the IJphesIans
fled In panic Four poisons weto killed nnd aovornl wounded Constantinople
leported, howevei, that none of tho famoui old buildings of Kphcsus woro
damaged
AMERICAN FAMILY MURDERED BY MEXICANS
I2L I'ASO, Texas, 1'eb. 22. An American vvotnnn nnd licr family havo Just
bepn nuuilcrcd l.y Mclcnn banditti near Cuslhultlaclilc, Stnto of Chihuahua, says
an unsigned telegram received today from Madera. Tho bandits wero said to ba
fotmei Vllllsta holillcr.s. Tho Cnrrnnza gnnlson In Juarez la investigating.
ONLY ONE SAVED WHEN U-IJOAT SINKS SHIP
LONDON, Feb. 2.'- Tho British .steamship Dingle, C03 tons, lias been sunk
l a German mihm.ulno It la believed that nil members of tho crew, except ono,
wero Killed. The Dlnglo hailed from Liverpool and wns u new bout, having been
built in 1914.
U-BOATS SEIZE FOUR SWEDISH TRAWLERS
COPKNIIAOnN. Feb. 22. Four Svvedisli trawlers, which wero leaving ths
liatbor of Gothenburg, wero captured hy German submarines today.
TURK WARSHIP SUNK BY PLANE'S TORPEDO
WASHINGTON. Feb. 22. A high onlcln! of tho American navy has learned
through a private letter from n friend In Uuropo of tho successful utilization
of an aeroplane In torpedoing a Turkish warship In thq Sea of Marmora.
BERLIN AGAIN DENIES REPORTS OF RIOTS
DGItLIN, Feb. 22. "Tho foreign press, especially that of Franco, contlnuo to
disseminate fnlso reports about riots In Berlin and other German cities," saya
tho Overseas Agency,
THREE DUTCH SHIPS TO FLY U. S. FLAG
NI3W YORK, Feb. 22. A. faHt mall atenmshlp service between New York
nnd South American ports will soon bo Instituted, according' to reports in shipping
circles. W. It. Graco & Co,, through the Grnco Steamship Company, as tho
llrst step In this direction, wero teportcd to havo purchased thrco vessels Hying
tho Dutch flag. Thoy are of about D700 tons each. The ships, which wero re
ported to havo brought (3,300,000, nro tho Vonezuela, tho Ecuador and the
Colombia.
CANADA SENDS MORE TROOPS TO GUARD BORDER
BUFFALO, Fob. 22. Canadian towns across tho Niagara Itlver are tinder
stricter military law than at any tlmo fllnco the threatened "invasion" of Can
nda caused general panic along tho border. During the night 500 more troops
arrived at Urldgeburg and Fort Urle. They brought two machine guns which
were trained on the International Bridge. The soldiers patrol every Inch of the
river bank.
U. S. HOLDS HYDROAEROPLANES ARE VESSELS
WASHINGTON, Teb. 22 Hydioaeroplanes have received tho status pt
"vessels" In an order Issued by Asslstnnt Secretary of tho Treasury Peters, and
Bent out to all Custom Houses of the country. Aeroplanes, however, It waa
specified In tho order were not to bo deemed vessels.
TWO CANADIAN GENERALS WOUNDED
OTTAWA, Ont., Feb, 22. Brigadier Generals MaoDonnell and Leckle, havo
been wounded In Flanders, according to ndvipes made publto by tho Militia Pe
partment here. Neither of them is seriously hurt. General MaoDonnell waa
formerly commandant of Strathcona'a Horse. 'General Leckle was; formerly:
commander of the 16th (Seaforth Highlanders) Battalion of Vancouver, being:
promoted In the reorganization of the forces when the second division vvaa
placed in tho Held.
KING GEORGE'S RECOVERY COMPLETE
LONDON, Feb. 22. King George has now completely recovered his health
and his medical advisers have given him permission to resume his visits to th
troops In training. King George was Injured in the latter part of October by
a fall from his horse while inspecting the troops on the British front on thn
Continent. He was brought back to London a few days later.
PARIS ALARMED AT SEINE'S RAPID RISE
PABIS, Feb. 22. The Seine is rising rapidly and la causing anxiety. Navi
gation has been suspended and measures have been taken in Paris to protc-ot th
flooded quays.
BRITAIN TO HAVE NEW CABINET MINISTER
LONDON, Feb. 22 Th Dally Mail learns that the Cabinet is to be in reasoi
by the promotion of another MUUster. inakiD the tots' $?jibsr $jr members S3
U'jisiiWm
lrf ' iJ"j?"'T' a'-iiiaan
