V
i
PIT 3
MARKETS
NfcW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Feb. 16 26.80.
Arizona Unsettled,
probably rain south
MEMBER ASIUCIATEO PRESS
VOL. 18, NCh 230.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 22, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
cons li
HUGE WAR I
CREDIT I
VOTE I
t
i
PRECEDENT HAD.
NEW YORK, Feb. 21 Anthra
cite operators and representa
tives of 175.000 miners confer
red on the arrangement of a
new agreement to replace the
one, expiring at the end of the
month of March. The men's de
mands were referred to a joint
sub committee which organized
and adjourned to meet Monday
next. Thus, for the first time in
history of joint hard coal wage
conferences, the demands of the
miners were not promptly reject
ed when formally presented. The
mine workers were cordially re
ceived by the operatois. The
best of feeling prevailed.
TODAY AMERICA PAYS TRIBUTE TO MEMORY OF WASHINGTON
REPUBLICANS
I snim
PAMDMHM
iHmrH ims i
wi.iiis rii wi ,
1
Big Fund May Finance War !
Until End of May; Asquith
Defends English Financial
Folicy in Loans.
CLAIM AMERICAN
SHELLS DEFECTIVE
French Repulse Germans to
South of Somme; Many
Aerial Actions ; Germans
Check British Attempts.
LONDON, Feb. 21. The House of i
t Vim til rt.- r-j ucost i.o u vnif rf t-rcf i f ft !
fur 420.000,000 pounds with which it
;.s expected to carry the war to the end -,T . . ,,.
of Ma v.. bringing total war credits to I aiTen UlStllCt KepubllCan
2,os2.9oo,ooo pounds stealing and; Club is Organized and Steps j
. i ich is. acccrdinn to Premier Asquith I TWn in Nnminate TirWt f
"not only bevond precedent, but actu- r p.. p-.;ft-ally
beyond the imagination of any ft-1 Ior Llecuon'
niT'citr or tr.is or otner country.
The point emphasized by Asquith is
r.ot the totals, bu! the fact of careful
t r. holding down expenditures be
low five million pound3 per day,
which it is thought unlikely to be ex
ceedf 1 at r.jiy time. Touching the loan
of England to her allies Asquith said
il hrd grown nearly 169.000,000 pounds
!ich must be added to the loans
made by the Bank of England at the
request of the government. The Chan
cellor of the Exchequer said: "The
criticism has been made that we are
rot taking proper care to maintain
credit, in particular of American ex
change. We merely ask the House to.
compare our American exchange withi
3 yr - Vs-v
' A "f
2 .-" , .. V
-JS Kit
.-'VJrY
W. R. TONKIN WILL
HEAD THE BALLOT
Other Strong Men Are Selec
ted for Aldermanic Berths.
Vigorous Effort to Be Put
Forth During Contest
Launching what is termed by the
leaders "A Winning Campaign in a
Winning ear. Republicans, repre-1
senting every ward in the city of Bis-j
bee and others from points outside the
city limits, met and organized last
evenirg, the Warren uistnct iiepuon
i - .
S:C: kft, ; -fs;: il
Is- - Vj&sKj ik.. tMl
ARGUMENTS PUT OFF.
WASHINGTON, Keb. 21-Oral
arguments on the West Virginia
liquor cases, involving tlx; con
stitutionality of the Webl-Ken-yon
liquor law, which subjects
interstate shipments of liquor to
statutes of the state to which
the liquor is consigned, were in
definitely postpoued by the su
preme court. The case wan
first argued a year ago. They
were restored to the ducket for
second argument before the en
tire court. The hearing was
set today. Ah there was a vacan
cyon the bench, and Justice Day
was ill they were again post
poned. t
EFENSE PL
1 Iffl IS
COMPLETE
George Washington; his birthplace;
his tomb; his home st Alt. Vernon,
and his wife.
mm
AVIATION M!
OF All 10
; Military Committee Reaches
- j a Practical Agreement As to
the Terms of the Bill to be
Recommended.
COMPROMISE MADE
BETWEEN TWO IDEAS
Total Peace Strength and Reg
! ular Guard, Contemplated,
Numbers 375,000 Men
; Other Figures Given Out.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 21. Nation.il
preparedness legislation was advanced
when the House Militarv Committee
f ... . ' reached a' practical agreement on the
lhe oenate MlUtaiy Commit-. outline of the army bill as it vill be
tee Recommends That a uiauinuiusly presented lor passage.
Thorouirh Investieation of ' h:ii"",an ,I:' as authorised to
Aero Dept. be Made.
c
HE
IEEDC
IE
thnt of anv of the other belligerents,
The present rate is four and seventy-! ran Club. Though the meeting was
Fix hundredths and the government J not known to but a few, the atten-
docs r.ot wish ana nigner tnan. tnai. it : dance of both women ana men was,
in still ten cents below normal," dis- jiarse and most enthusiastic.
couraging imports by keeping the ex-, y. r. Tonkin, of Ward 1, one of the
ch?rge below par and checking export jbest known of the younger men in the
of gold." 1 Warren District and for several years,
Sir Joseph Walten. criticised tha la fading light of the party, was urged j
government for not carefully inspect-jto become the candidate for Mayor on j
ing American shells, saying he wasitne Republican ticket. At first, Mr. j
'informed that of twenty-eight shells j Tonkin was much averse to taking the i
recently fired by a howitzer at the j nomination and not until much pres- J
front only four burst." jsure hfd been brought to bear by his j
.many friends did he agree to make thei
LONDON, Feb. 21. The Germans racP The petition for his nomination ;
were repulsed nor Lihons. south ofiwas practically signed last evening at;
the Son-me River, by the French in an ;tnp meeting. j
attack extending four and one-third! n Tonkin the Republicans feel they,
mile?. The offensive was preceded by!nave the winning timber. Though he j
a heavy bombardment of asphyxiating hag Deen actjVe in politics for several i
gas. When the Germans auenipiea to ypprs jn Bisbee be has been a candi
come from their renches the- French ja(e jn cjty politics but once. That
fire held them in check. The Germans j took pace two years ago when he was
in Artois were prevented from occupy-; , he progressive candidate for Mnyor.
ing the crater of a mine in a counter
attack by the French. There is much
artillery activity in Champaigne, the
forest of Argonne and the entire re
gion of Verdun.
The Germans report additional re
pulses of British grenade attacks a
gainst captured positions on the Yser
Confll. also the defeat of an Entente!
offensive on the Lens-Arras road,
rerous fights between German
Cpon that occasion he polled a large1
vote, which" testified to the esteem in
which he was held, personally and po
litically. Many names were considered for
the aldermanic ticket by the Club.
In Ward 3. Bertram L. Smith,
head of the produce firm of Buxton
Smith, appears to be the unanimous
j choice of most of the Republicans. As
and, hi,, rnnninir niHtp several are being
French aviators pre reported and aero- mentioned. Griff Williams, who has
plane raids by French and British aready served on the council, is onfl
soup.drons op the German aviation possibility. L. M. Overlock is another
fn-ld at Habsheim. Mu'hausen and the jpnj Frank Bonnet is another. From
"itmitions factorv at Pacny-sur-MuselL
British aircraft bombarded Don, south
wpt of Lille.
Lttle fighting is reported on the
Eastern and Austw-Hungarian fronts.
The Albanians are fighting for the Teu
tons reported to have reached the Ad
riatic Sea wet of Kavaya. Reports
indicate the Austro-Hungarians and
their allies are completely surrounded
this array of timber the Republicans
feel that thev will be able to select
such that will make a fine line-up in
the final election on May 22.
In Ward 2. C. W. Ruth is the favor
ite. Other possibilities in this ward
are M. C. High and several whose
names have not been put before any
considerable numoer of voters.
In Ward 1. will w nite is oeing urg-
WASffCNGTON
'old?
What words can add to his unending fame?
What verse can praise, tho' writ in script of
Who rose victoriously in days of old
And put the tyrant overseas to shame;
Today his land is fathered to acclaim
T he ift he gave of freedom, liberty,
And, at the sound of that illustrious name
mm it i e ii. . e
incv stand uncovered, sons or men dv mm set tree.
no save
grave
A n?atcr land than e'er he dreamed of, stands
To render reverence to him w
A country to their fathers, o'er his
North, South, ICast, West, are joined in clasping hands,
And, as we read of him who keld the strands
Of all dissension to one issue, we
Strive with our might to follow his commands
1 o our forefathers giv'n, and their posterity.
He, who might well have dwelt in sheltered ease
At country's bidding followed fire and field
With 1 aith and Hope emblazoned on his shield,
Uncowed bv loss, not rash with victories;
Till, at the end, his foes across the the seas
ielded to right, not mig ht, and since that end
We hail him, with his flag that fronts the breeze,
Xot only I ather of his Country but its Friend.
Bisbt-c, Ariz., I-Vb. 21st. 191o. ' J. O'C.
3n
it
ROBINSON SUBMITS
FURTHER DETAILS
Col. Reber and Capt. Cowan
Charges. Lincoln Beach-
Beachey's Opinion Cited.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 21. The Sen
ate Military Committee recommended
a Congressional investigation of the
Army Aviation Service. The decision
was reached after Senator Uibinson.
who introduced the resolution propos
ing the investigation, submitted furth-
on the Continental ariLy plan ad
vocated by Garrison ml the Presi
dent. The bill provides for a complete
federalization of the National Guard
as a substitution for the continentals.
rigures rrommently in the plan mapped by Garrison of-a regular
army. The total peace strength of
regulars and guard will be 575.0m
nier. with reserves to double this num
ber. The expense of the whole eHablish
: ment this year is estimated at $171,
Otm.ooo. exclusive of Panama defense,
which Is carried in a.iotUer bill, and
tht proposals for additional military
schools in all states. The first year
of the Garrison pluy woulj have calVJ
for JlS2.mtO.OnO.
Whether the new bill is acceptable
to the President hns not bten indicat
ed. The committee believes the plan
will override every objection by the
substitution of the National Guard for
the C'o'ilir.e::taI and that Congress
has lull authority in the accomplish
ment. To complete the bill the plan will
authorize an increase in the regular
peace strength to UT.Oii". the addi
tion of ten regiments of intantry. lour
regiments of ndd artillery, fifty two
companies of coast artillery, tiitten
companies of engineers a .id four aero
squadrons. The regular army will
have an organization capable of beiiv;
.expanded to 27.".0Oi) war, and 75.HH
reservists, annually obliged to return
to the colors on call. It will double
the radete thirty cadete companies,
attached to regular regiments and
will train ollicers for entry into the
reserve corps. The h'use bill will
provide for peace pay for privates i'f
$4S annually, second liteuTer.ants JlT.0.
first lieutenants J;'0O, captains, cap
tai:n $."oo an.l higher oiliccrs proportionately.
, er evidence suppoting his chances of
j ceneral inefficiency. Robinson s-aid
j that in eijrht years fifteen aviation of
I ficers hail been killed, eight of them
at the North Island station, near San
Diego. The resolution would approp
riate $10,000 for the injuiry to create
an investigation committee, consisting
I of three representative and two
! senators.
Robinson produced before the com
mittee last week photographic copies
j of letters alleged to have passed be-
tween Lieutenant Colonel Reber. head
! of the aviation service, and Captain
Cowan, in cahrge of the San Iieo
station, in w hich the senator revealed
I that the service was "contemptibly
i inefficient".
j In a supplementary statement today
j he declared that of the twenty four
; officers who ualified as fliers fifteen
had been killed and several were los
! iris their lives "because they were re
quired to attempt flights in antiquated
I biplanes known to be defective." He
I said that few of the so-called fiier
I had ever done military work. Only'
' one or two had maneuvered an aero
; plane with bombs attached,
i The War Depurtmetn has already
I ordered an independent inquiry. Rob-
in son said it was a "well known fact
i that Lincoln Ueachey. a short time be
fore his death, visited the North Is-'
' land station and pronounced It out
rageously defective in equipment,
i Reachey communicated a bitter pro
1 test which came to the knowledge of
I tho War Department." ;
HOUSTON AND LANE OUT
ot Purazzo. In Asia Minor the Rus-' a nnH ,i,pre is tittle doubt but that he r nnt oulH l" uepu""a.i om.uu-
sians are persistently following the.WnI become a candidate. Other men
Turks who fled from Krzerum and also!be:ng mentioned in this ward are Geo.
re pushing northward to the Black j Bunker and Charlie Holtz.
Sea to estaMish a oaco for warships For the city offices that of City Clerk
pid transports. A Turkish power sta-j ady ),a9 an aspirant in the person
fion east of the Suez Canal was blown ! of M m Butler. There is hardly mv
up by a British aviator. j possibility that the incumbent will
have any opposition in the Republican
COL. HALFORD SPEAKS j primaries. He-is considered the log-
zadon get behjnd the movement to
urge him as a candidate he might eiv
in to their wishes in the matter. Ii is
conceded that Watkins would be one
of the strongest men available fur .ho
ticket.
The Itemiblican Club, it is nnder-
WIRELESS TESTED
DAVENPORT. Iowa. Keb. 21. Tim
skill of 20.000 licensed, amateur, wire
less operators in the United Stales
was tested when a message appropri
ate to Washington's Birthday was
vent by William Kirwin of Station "
for transmission throughout the coun-
SA.N FRANCISCO. Feb. 21. Lieut.
Col. Halford. an executive committee
man of the Laymnns Missionary Move
ment and Fr"d R. Fisher, for several
years a missionary in India. wer
speakers at tonight's session of the
Bay Cities Convention.
TO BUY JAP SHIPS
TOKIO. Feb. 21. Russia is nego
tiating with Japan for the purchase of
several warships captured in the Russo-Japanese
war.
cal candidate and the strongest man
that can be put forward. .
For street superintendent John T.
Quick and R. W. Totson are candidates
It is not known whether there will be
any other candidates for this place.
No candidate has been mentioned
for city marshal though the name of
Basset T. Watkins is rumored as a pos
sibility. It is known that Watkins
does not take kindly to the suggestion
from bis many friends that he become
a candidate for the office. On the oth
stood, will organize permanently the. try. The message was picked up by
latter part of this week ntid next week 'all stations three miles from Daven
will hold its first open meeting. Tha'. ; port and re'ayed in every direction
a vigorous campaign w iil be waged j for transit isrinn to the governors of
this spring is the statement of the 'each state a'td ;he mayors of the prin-
leaders and backed up by the interest cipal cities.
displayed in last night's meeting.
WILL DECIDE TODAY
WASHINGTON. Feb. 21. Former
Governor Francis of Missouri, offered
the an bassndorship to Russia, will in
form the President in the morning
whether he will accept. The iniprer.-
HELD TO GRAND JURY
CHICAGO. Feb. 21. V illi.im Orpel.
the University of Wisconsin junior.
: Vi'd to the grand jury in conncc
'on with the death of his former
icet'icart. Marion Frances Lambert,
.ii rcommenilation of the coroner's
sion is current he will go to Petrocrad )'"''
RUSSIANS REPORT VICTORIES
PKTROGRAD. Feb. 21. Fololwins
is an official statement: "Our artillery
drove a considerable bcxly of Germans
from the defenses of Scholossberg,
near Dvinsk, and occupied the works.
At Illotikst we exploded mines limit r
live German blockhouses and main
tained craters despite a severe attack.
In the Black Sea our torpedo boats
destroyed thirteen sailing vessels on
the Anatolian roast.
Near Erzerum we took seven hun
dred Askerls prisoners. A detach
ment of Cossacks met Tukr infantry
and artillery in the mountains and
dispersed anil captured three bat
teries of field artillery and a number
of caissons. Jn the Dnelster region
and district of Useienczko, our fire ef
fectually stopped the- nemy' ap
proach to our trenches.
CHARGE GRAFT
CHICAGO. Feb. 2L Alleea.ions of
craft were trade by Alderman Rodri
guez, who asserted thiif Mr. Fne
Waller Katon. lecturer and author and
head of the bitrnau of social survey,
had been compelled for months to pay
approximately n third of her sc.hiry to
Mrs. Lonise Osbcrne It uvc. commis
sioner of the Bureau of Public Wel-
fare. The payments it is alleged. wer
WASHINGTON, Feb. 21. the Presi- : always made in ca--h. They were said
dent virtually eliminated Secretaries to he for the bench! of needy relatives
I Houston and Lan? from consideration of Mayor Thompson. The charges were
for the war portfolio. It is said In made in committee meeting of the city
official circles he believes both are so council. An investigation was demand
eminently fitted for their present posi- ed.
tions he is reluctant to transfer them.
Several middle west lawyers are un- ' DECREES ANNULLED.
tier consideration. DOUGLAS. Feb. 21. The recent de-
1 crees of Military Governor Calles of
MAYOR GILL LEADS ( Sc.nora. one of which ordered the con-
SKATTLK. Feb. 21. Karly returns titration of property belonging to
enemies of the de facto government
and another the disfrrnchisinc of
citizen who bore arms against Car
ranza, have been annisl'ed by the cen
tral government, the Mexican consul
here announced. The matters will
probably be submitted to the state
ccngress of Sonora after the constitu
tional elections.
of the primary election give Mayor Hi
ram Gitl a two to one lead over his
nearest two opponents for the nomina
tion for tynyor. Former Chief of Po-1
lice Criffith has a slight lead over
Councilman KHckson for second place.
PLEASED WITH ALLIES.
ATHENS. Feb. 21. General Sarrail
Fench commander in the Balkans, ar-.
rived here from an audience with' BANK RESOURCES.
King Constantine. Afterwards the' WASHINGTON. Feb. 21 The total
King received an Associated Press resources of all the National Banks
rorrespondent and Informed him that ! of the United States us reported to
he was delighted with the result of the comptroller the last of IVcember,
the interview, which he was thorough ! 1915. are $13.4K7.SS?.Oti. Thi is an
ly confident would prove the first i Increase of over two billion in a year,
step for clearing the differences be-j The deposits reached $ 10.379. 000,000.
tween Greece and the Entente powers, an Increase of over two billion.
