THE BARRE , DAILY- TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 290.
.11AIIRK. VKHMONT. TUKSDAY, I'UHKUAKY 22, 1010.
1'ltICK, O.VK CENT.
GERMANS HELD
BUTSMALLPART
OF THEIR GAIN
After Capturing 800 Metres
of the French First Line
Trenches and Occupying
Some of the Communicat
ing Trenches, They Were
Dislodged by a Counter-Attack
BRITAIN IS VOTING
TREMENDOUS SUM
TO CARRY ON WAR
( FIERCE ENCOUNTER
EAST OF SOUCHEZ
Germans Delivered Strong
Attack, Which Carried a
Large Section, According
to Admission by French
War Office, in the Forest
of Givenchy
Paris, Feb. 22. The German forces
yesterday evening delivered a strong at
tack against the French positions at the
forest of Givenchy, east of Souchez, ac
cording to the official announcement of
the war office, and were successful" in
penetrating the first lines of the French
trenches for a distance of 800 metres. J
House of Commons Passed New Votes of
Credit Aggregating $2,100,000,000
After Premier Asquith Had
Made Speech.
London, Feb. 22. The IIousu of Com
mons, last night passed new votes of
credit to the amount of 420,000,000.
This is expected to carry the war to the
end of May, bringing the total sum ap
propriated by means of votes of credit
since the outbreak of the war to 2,082-
000,000 pounds a sum, according to Pre
micr Asquith, "not only beyond preced
ent, but actually beyond the imngina
tion of any financier of this or any other
country."
Parliament was occupied yesterday en
tirely with financial questions. Premier
Asquith spoke for fifty minutes in pre
senting the government's motion for the
now war credits. The chancellor of the
exchequer, Reginald McKcnna, followed
with a statement regarding American ex
change which, he declared, is now as high
as the British government wishes it to
be.
The point emphasized by Premier As
quith was not the enormous total neces
sary for the war, but the fact that by
careful economy and safeguards the gov
ernment had succeeded in holding down
the expenditure well below 5,000,000
a day, which figure he thought unlikely
to be exceeded at any time.
"I felt the enormous and overwhelming
responsibility in asking the House for
this gigantic sum," Said the premier, "and
could not do so unless I was satisfied
that the government had most carefully
explored the ground, bo that we are not
asking for a penny more than the ex
igencies of our cause, and the great his
toric responsibilities which we havo un
dertaken require, and unless we are sat
isfied that every possible precaution is
being taken to see that tho taxpayers'
money is not being wasted."
Touching on the loans to England's al
lies, Mr. Asquith stated that the amount
had now crown to nearly ltI0,0OO,(MMl, i
to which must be added loans to the al-
i i !. l.l. ... T- 1 1
10 DEAD,
50 HURT
IN WRECK
Two Passenger Trains on
New Haven Railroad Col
lided at Milford, Conn.,
and Passing Freight Train
Was Sideswiped by the
Wreckage
GERMANY CROWDS
UNITED STATES
STILL FURTHER
BROKEN AIR PIPE
STOPPED FIRST TRAIN
Flagman Running Back to
Warn Second Train Was
Killed by Latter Engine
Before He Could Proceed
More Than a Few Steps
The Injured Taken to New
Haven
Thev then occumed some of the French
communicating trenches but the French ,ar h? VV5 premier, but he declared that
.. , .. . . ... the provision in the September budget,
allotting 423,000,000 for loans to tne
Milford, Conn, Feb. 22,-At least ten
persons were killed and more than 50
lies made by the Hank of England at tho passengers were injured to-day wtyen the
Connecticut river special on the New
Declares That Armament on Liners Mow
Held to Be Defensive Will Be
Treated as Offensive Anna
ment When Submarines
art Concerned.
Washington, D. ft, Feb. 22. Conllden
tial advices from Kerlin to-day indicate
that Germany will soon inform the Unit
ed States that previous assurances that
unresisting liners will not be attacked
without warning will hold good for fu
ture submarine operations provided, how
ever, that such liners do not carry arma
ment. The German government will con
tend, the advices states, that what is
now characterized as defensive armament
really is offensive armament when sub
marines are concerned and will propose
a discussion with the United Mates of
what defensive armament properly may
be.
As none of the British and French
linerg now clearing from American ports
carry any guns whatever, such assur
ances from Germany will be in the na-1
ture of reassurances for the safety of
neutrals they carry, even under the
terms of a new submarine campaign.
FIVE TRAPPED
AND DOOMED
Four Men and a Woman
Lost Their Lives in New
York Boardinghouse
BUILDING DESTROYED
THIS MORNING
Dead Were Employes and
One of the Proprietors
of the Place
WERE BURIED TOGETHER.
Aged Bellows Falls People Not Separ
ated Long By Death.
Bellows Falls, Feb. 22. Double funeral
services for Mr. and Mrs. Albert M. All
be, who observed the 7Hh anniversary
of the wedding December 30, were held
yesterday afternoon in the home at At
kinson and School streets. The services
were private. Rev. A. C. Wilson of Im-
nianuel church, officiated. Mrs. Allbe died
last Friday afternoon and Mr. Allbe died
yesterday morning about 11 o'clock. Both
had been ill since about January 1.
Albert Merrinmn Allbe was born in
Westminster, November, 13, 1821, a son
New York, Feb. 22. Four men and one
woman lost their lives to-day in a fire
which destroyed a boarding-house occu
pied by theatrical people and located
above a restaurant in the theatre sec
tion of the city. Early reports said that
a number of actors and actresses per
ished, but the dead were later identified
as employes of the boarding-house and
Thomas Keratsaa, one of the proprietors
of the place.
POISON POTION
WAS INTENDED
TO END HER LIFE
BURLINGTON PLANT
DAMAGED $23,000
Rendering Company Building Partially
Burned and Large Quantity of
Materials Was Damaged.
Hurlington, Feb. 22. There was a $25.-
000 fire early this morning in tho plunt
of the Burlington Rendering company.
reauest of the British government. The
amount of this latter item was not made
counter-attack resulted in driving the
Germans from all but a few of those
positions.
Berlin, Feb. 22. The capture of 800
metres of French positions east of Sou
chez by German troops was announced
to-day by the war office.
allies, would not be exceeded
The chancellor of the exchequer, in an
optimistic statement regarding the con
dition of British credit, said:
'Criticism has been made that we are
not taking proper steps to maintain our
credit, particularly ' with reference to
American exchange. I merely ask the
House to compare our American exchange
The Turks lost heavily in the fighting with that of anv of the other bclligcr-
resulting in the capture of Erzerura by!erlts. At the present time the rate is
the Russians, according to a Petrograd j 4.70, and the government does not wish
dispatch to-day which estimates their
lasses at 40,000 killed, wounded and pris
oners. Following up the victory energet
ically, the Russians are pursuing the
, Turks westward from Erzerum, as well
as to the north and the south, as the
Turkish forces split and fled in all di
The different Orroman groups, accord-
it higher than that. It is still 10 cents
below normal, but we do not wish it to
go either up to, or above normal, for the
simple reason that we are discouraging
imports by keeping the exchange a little
below par and checking the export of
gold to America.
"It is an absolute marvel that after
18 months of war we are still almost the
ing to Petrograd advices, have been cut 1 otrjy pen gold country in the world. Our
on irom communication witn eacn otoer, paper can be exchanged for gold at the
while the Russians are declared to have bank. Every sovereign in paper money
solidified their own lines so that their i,ag B0,j 0f it. H would never have
unbroken advances, are rapidly becom- jbeen believed two years ago that British
ing a forward drive along an unbroken cmiit cou,i Htand the extraordinary test
front from the Black sea to Mush, wetito w,j(,h ;t )laa been subjected.
I 01 iaikp. v an.
A Military operations in European terri-
tory are continuing to be relatively un-
"Notwithstanding the gigantic expen
ditures we have maintained our credit.
We have great resources, but must bus'
'important, no extensive movements being band them with prudence. I have no
1 . . : i i 1. il
York, New Haven & Hartford railroad,
bound from Springfield, Mass., for New
York, was run into by special passen
ger train.
The first train had stopped about a
mile and a half east of Indian river
bridge because of a broken air pipe. A
flagman went back to warn the following
train and he was killed while running up
the track, being so close to the onrushing
engine that he could not escape. A mo
ment later the crash occurred.
At the time of the collision a freight
train was running west on the next track
and when the smash came One passenger
coach was forced over against the freight
train.
Others dead besides the flagman, in
clude the engineer and the fireman of the
second train and two passengers, a man
and a woman, whose bodies can be seen
beneath the wreckage.
The boiler of the second engine blew
up, scattering the wreckage in every di
rection. This engine and two cars rolled
over and over down an embankment.
The injured passengers were taken by
special trains to New Haven. When the
FIRE RAGES THREE HOURS.
of Ellery ami Hannah (Mcsser) Allbe. j T.bo " caught between a steam pipe and
He was graduated from the Walpole, X.t,,e ' A krge quantity of fertilizer
H., academy, and studied law in the of-1 ""' ." -"c
lice of William (V Bradley in Westmin- was partially burned
ster and was admitted to the Windham
county bar May I, 18.3. He waa the
oldest attorney in the state of Vermont
and wag a charter member of the Ver
mont Bar association. Mrs. Allbe was
born in Andover, July 3, 1823, a daugh
ter of Barnet and Polly (Smithj Waite.
She was married to Mr. Allbe December
30, 1845. They both were members of
Immantiel church.
They leave three daughters, Mrs. Fred
A. Pierce of Fitchburg, Mass., Mrs. Cars,
A. Allbe, widow of Dr. K. S. Allbe of
Bellows Falls, and Mrs. A. C. Spear of
Beverly, Mass. i
But Prompt Action By Neighbors Fol
lowed By Ministrations By Physi
cians May Save Mrs. Louis
Germain of Lower
Websterville.
Mrs. Louis Germaine, a young woman
living In lower Websterville, took a solu
tion of bichloride of mercury yesterday
with suicidal intent, it is believed, al
though it is thought thut she muy re
cover. 1 tie woman s eiglit-year-oiu
daughter saw her mother mix a part of
mercury tablet in a teaspoon. ul of hot
water and take it. The child summoned
neighbors and while an effort was being
made to locate a physician, an emetic
as applied. Dr. K. If. Bailey, health of
ficer of Barre Town, was the first doctor
to arrive and he was followed in the
early afternoon by Dr. F. X. Z. Archain-bault.
As near as can be learned Mrs. Or
maine took the poison around 10:30
o'clock. It is stated that marital trou
des induced a fit of despondency. When
Dr. Bailev arrived the emstic adminm
tered by the neighbors apparently ha
had the desired effect. Drs liailey an
Archambault continued to work over the
patient during the afternoon and last
night her condition was reported to be
considerably improved. Physicians stat
ed this morning that she will probably
recover unless unforeseen developments
arise. She has regained consciousness
and appears to regret having taken the
solution. ,
The woman is around 30 years old and
has two children, the daughter whose
promptness in advising neighbors of what
had happened probably saved her moth
er's, life, and a son, four vearg old
Trouble at the Germaino homo is said to
have prompted the husband to leave
Sunday. Ho is-reported to have been
seen here in the city yesterday. Oer
maine is employed as a quarry worker,
CANDIDATES
ARE LISTED
One New Name, Frank K,
Beard, Out for School Com
missioner in Sixth Ward""
MAKES TWO CONTESTS
IN THAT BAILIWICK
MUST BLAME THEMSELVES.
Rlilroadg Are Responsible for Their Own
Condition.
Causing $115,000 Loss at Gardner, Mass.,
Worst in Town's History.
Gardner, Mass., Feb. 22. The worst
fire in Gardner's history raced uncon
trolled for three hours yesterday after
noon, destroying the Riordan block on
Pleasant street, damaging the Michel
man block on Park street, and causing a
loss 01 about lKi,uiMi.
A stiff west wind carried sparks and
firebrands over the central section and
starfed a number of fires on the roofs
of mercantile and dwelling structures.
For a time it was feared that the heart
of tbe town was doomed, and telephone
messages were sent to Baldwinville and
East lempleton. Those communities re
s ponded with largo crews and consider
yen special trains with physicians and
nurses were sent from that city
under way on either the western or the doubt that a year hence I shall be able'news WTeck was sent to New Ha-
. 1. !; ! J I .... ... ...
1 iron, so ir as me omciiu om-,to 8now that our credit is still unim
letins indicate, while conditions in the j jmirfd."
Balkans are comparatively quiet. 1 Touching on the question as to whether
The Austrians are continuing their air !nftor tle WHr aeceptance an,i discounting
rai.ls over Italian territory The latest of (jrmll- bills would be discouraged in
flights, were across the province of Bres- London, the chancellor said: "That sub
eia toward Milan. Rome reports that jcc.f milgt be left for the future, but I
four persons were killed and five were am gure that the commercial interests of
n'.m the country will oppose the relinquish-
Ihe British delegation to the Anglo-. mpnt of th trade of acceptjIlg n,i dis
French parliamentary committee begins counting bills drawn abroad, which has
to-day a conference in Paris with French ' j tnf1nn i. B1i,r,irtion and envy
Xew York. Feb. 2.' Former President
William Howard Taft, in an address here able apparatus, which proved the factors
last nifht at the 10th annual banauet of n wnicn tue late of tne town turned.
senators and deputies, the object being
a full discussion of the conduct of the
war, with a view to the guidance of the
parliaments of two nations.
ZEI
'PELIN FELL,
MASS OF FLAMES,
AFTER BEING HIT
of all the world's commercial cities."
During the course of the evening's de
bate, Sir Joseph Walton, liberal, for the
LOADED SHIP
CAUGHT FIRE
French Guns Succeeded in Bringing Down
a German Air Raider in the Vicinity
of Brabant Le Roi, According to
French Official Statement.
Paris, Feb. 22. A Zeppelin airship wan
brought down by French guns in the vi
cinity of Brahant Le Roi, in the Meuse
yesterday, according to an official state-'
ment last night.
The Zeppelin was flying from St. Men
chould toward the south and was attack
ed by cannon from Rcvigny. Hit by an
incendiary shell, the Zeppelin fell in
flames in the vicinity of Brabant Le Roi
British Steamer A it can Was About to
Sail from St. John,
N. B.
St. Johns, X. B.. Feb. 22. The British
steamer Arracan, loaded and in the outer
harbor ready to sail, was damnged by a
Barnslcy division of Yorkshire, criticised ! fire of undetermined origin early this
the government for not more carefully , morning. When the flames were first
inspecting munitions received from the discovered in the refrigerator plant, the
United States. captain called for aid and several ves-
"Care should be taken that we do not "!ls rushed to the scene. Two hours later
get bad supplies from America," he said. l4 waR announced that the fire was under
"I am informed that of 28 shells recently I control. A portion of a part ition was
fired by one of our howitzers at the front ; burned through and the heavy steel plut
I: 11.. ...i.ij. 9
only four burst.
the Traffic club of New York declared
that the railroads of the United States
have themselves to blame for tho "ham
pering regulations with which they had
themselves enmeshed.
"They lent themselves to the building
up of industrial monopolies by the grant
ing of rebates againt the law," said Mr.
Taft; "they took part in politics and cor
rupted councils and legislatures, and they
were one of the elements in the commun
The fire started from some unknown
cause in a one-story shed in the rear of
the Michelman and Riordan blocks, which
is used by Hagar & Houghton for the
storage of groceries. The blaze burst out
and communicated with the Riordan
block, a two-story structure of wood,
and before the department could get
streams started, the building was in
flames. The Davis block, a two-story
building on Pleasant street, next to the
Saw Lincoln shot
BY ACTOR BOOTH
Aiel P. Brigham, Who Died Yesterday,
Was Playing in Orchestra in Ford
Theatre, Washington, on That
Fateful Night in 1865.
ity which threatened this country with Riordan. was saved by speedy closing of
plutocracy. When a mild effort was made , "iuuw wnnw.
to regulate them in the first interstate 1 " After the fire got a headway in the
commerce law of 1H87, they laughed at'Riorlan black, the wind drove the flames
the law, flouted the authority of the com- (toward the Michelman block, and the
mission, declined to present their real ba " was set afire. The flames
differences in full to the commission and j "pread over the rear of the structure,
replied on the delays in the courts to
defeat the purpose of the law.
It took the people '10 years to se
which is two stories and of wood, but
quick action on the part of the combined
nre departments prevented the fire from
GERARD INJURED
WHILE SKIING
ONE ATTACK BEATEN OFF.
American Ambassador to Germany Broke
a Collarbone and Also Hurt His
Left Side Condition Is Not
Serious.
London, Feb. 22. A dispatch to the
Exchange Telegraph company says that
James W. Gerard, the American ambas
sador to Germany, broke a colhirboia
while skiing yesterday near Munich and
alo injured his left side. It is said that
his injuries are not serious.
ing on the outside waa warped.
STEAMSHIP DINGLE
REPORTED SUNK
British Vessel Went Down, According to
Information Received by Lloyd's,
and There is Probably
One Survivor.
London, Feb. 22. The sinking of the
British steamship Dingle is reported by
Lloyd's. Probably there is only one sur
vivor. No details have been received.
n.re the WisUtion needed to brine the coming through to Park street. The Gar
railroads completely under control in the (land block, another building of the same
act of 1910, and when any one seeks to j type, which stands at Park and Fleasant
blame others for the enactment of that 1 streets, m the angle of the burning
legislation he is oblivious to the causes okkm, was scoreneu ana noouca witn
that made it inevitable. Regulation in, water. It escaped destruction because
therefore, hero to stay, unless a moreof he daring of firemen who graved in-
radical steo. and one most deplorable, of 1 tense Heat to Keep its walls wet.
government ownership is resorted to."
The trouble now, Mr. Taft said, is not
a lack of desire on the part of railroad
men to obey the laws, but the difficulty
they find in complying with interstate
commerce regulations and the regulations
of 40 or more state railroad commissions.
WOMAN USED RIFLE.
Sat Up in Bed and Shot Herself as Hus
band Slept.
Hyde Park, Feb. 22. Mrs. Clay Foss.
aged 40 years, committed suicide at 9
o'clock Sunday evening, shooting herself
BIG HOTEL BURNED
Gray's Inn at Jackson, N. H.f Destroyed;
Loss $100,000.
Jackson, X. H., Feb. 22. Gray's inn, a
well known resort in the White moun
tains, was burned to the ground, together
with its casino, late yesterday, as many
of the 150 guests at the house joined the
volunteer tire department in a vain effort
to stay the flames. The loss was esti
mated at 1100,000.
Most of the guests were outdoors, tak
ing part in tho various sports in the
Azel P. Brigliam, one of the few sur
viving eye witnesses of the assassination
of President Lincoln, died yesterday at
the home of his son, George Brigham, at
Kimball corner, after an illness of a
month. Mr. Brigham had been an in
valid for the past five years, but he re
tained a vigorous mentality to the Iat.
He was a veteran of the Civil war, hav
ing served in New Hampshire, Massa
chusetts and Xew York regiments. Here
in Barre he is remembered as one of the
organizers of the Barre Citizens' band
and. as a member he continued, to play in
the cornet section until he suffered a
shock five years ago.
On 'the night of April 14, 18G;, Mr.
Brigham was playing the second violin in
the orchestra which was furnishing music
for the presentation of Our American
Uousin" in Ford's theatre at Washing
ton, D. C. On that fateful nipht Abra
ham Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes
Booth and Mr. Brigham in after years
was able to recall vividly his impres
sions of the tragedy". lie was in the or
chestra pit when Lincoln's murderer
leaped from the executive box to the
stage and disappeared. Very few if any
of the musicians are alive to-day.
Mr. Brigham wa-s horn in Waterford,
Sept. 7, 1830, and wben he was five years
old his parents moved to Exeter, N. II.,
where he passed most of his boyhood.
At the age of 15 he was leading the j
hxeter wind and a few years afterward
he was connected with the firm of Hall
Bros., a well known musical concern of
that day, in Boston. At the outbreak of
the war between the state he served in
the 1 5th New Hampshire volunteers, en
listed afterward in the fourth Massachu
setts regiment and completed a period of
four years and six months of military
life in the 23d New York regiment. His
marriage to .Mary Lucy Wilbur took
place in Boston in 1S49. Mrs. Brigham's
death occurred in Whitingaville, Mass.,
nine years ago. Mr. Brigham had resid
ed with his son in this city (several years.
He was an adherent of the Methodist
church.
Ife is survived by two sons, George
Brigham of Barre, a past commander of
the Sons of Veterans of Vermont, and
Azel P. Brigham of Milford, X. H. There
are also left a sister. Mrs. Annie F. Ath
erton of Clinton, M-asa., and two broth
ers. Scott A.- Brigham of Exeter. X. H.,
and George A. Brigham of Charlestown,
Mass.
The remains will rx taken over the M.
& W. R. railroad Wednesday evening to
Henry Alexander Opposes
Alderman A. E. Bruce, Who
Is Up for Re-election
- ( l ? 1
-xpirauon 01 tne time rc-
i caucuses and tho March elec
( ... . in which candidates may legally file
nomination papers, only two candidates
outside of the caucuses had registered at
the city clerk's office when the time
limit was reached last night, nenry
Alexander, who wa an aldermanie can
didate at the ward six caucus Friday
evening, immediately filed papers when
the count showed that a majority of
votes had been cast for Alderman A. K,
Bruce. Yesterday nomination papers for
the office of school commissioner from
ward six were filed by Frank K. Beard of
the Miles block. The caucus nominee i
William II. Eager, whose nomination fol
lowed Dr. Joe. W. Jackson's decision not
to stand for another nomination.
Signatures attached to Mr. Beard's
nomination papers are: M. D. Mower,
( W. Camp, George E. fcFarland. L. C.
Heck, R, L. Clark, .John JL Johnson and
David X. Farrand.
Mr. Alexander's nomination papers arn
signed by the following voters: W. JJ.
Eager, P. H. Brown. Robert J. Stewart,
George Mowatt, W. D. Gellatly, Walton
J. Shields, James Hogg and H. R. Spen
cer. Three per cent of the voters who
exercised the franchise in the previous
ward election are required for signature
on nomination papers.
The complete list of candidates who
will go before tho voters on the 7th of
March is as follows: For mayor, F. E.
Langlcy (citizens'), Robert Gordon (So-
ialist);,for city clerk and treasurer,
James Mackay (citizens'), Fred W. Suit
or (Socialist); first constable, George L.
Morris (citizens ) : second constable,
.eorge W. Parks (citizens') ; auditors.
J. Sullivan, llliam B. Marrion and
William Stephen (citizens'), Alexander
Ritchie, Antonio Brogi and Luigi Capora-
le.tti (Socialist); directors of French n
Barre library, John W. Gordon, R. S.
"urrier and F. G. Howland (citizens') ;
for assessor to serve three years, Au
gustus M. Rossi (citizens'), Gilbert Phil- ,
ips (Socialist). Socialists did not nom
inate candidates for the offices of first
and second constables or for the French's
Barre library directorate.
Ward candidates whose names are to
ppear on the printed ballots are: Ward
2, for. alderman, J. A. Healy (citizens');
ward 4, for alderman, Edwin Keast (citi
zens'), Clyde H. Reynolds (Socialist);
ward 5, for school commissioner, Joseph
Comolli (citizens'), John T. Callaghan
(Socialist); ward 6, for alderman, A. E.
Bruce (citizens'), Henry Alexander (filed),
Paul Ifedwall (Socialist) ; for school
commissioner. William II. Eager (citi
zens). Frank h. Beard (filed). Social
ists did not nominate an aldermnnic can-
didate in the second ward or a candidate
for the school board in ward 6.
D.
FILE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
Marshfield Couple Want Their Daughter
and Her Husband Restrained.
WARNED NOT TO SAIL.
i.r.n,. - - , , . .
... - . ... 1 ... 1 . , !.inw. nru liic iiiv -.tin uimvinri. aim
witn a Ai caiiure rnie wnue ner nuDana - , ., , . . , 1 vjiford. . V. IT. -vhpre fiinor.1 ....-vi.
, - . ..1111.- V , Irlirill fc". V, . . 1 . 1 1I J V " 1 I ... . . - - . ' -
.r wh.ir wrmni pflw Manv of i,ir, i win tc neiu at tne nome or A. I. Urn.
ham. jr., Thursday forenoon at 10 o'clock.
Interment will lie made in the family lot
in the village cemetery at Milford."
Mrs. Foss had been in poor health for!heir P"0""1
e past six years and discouragement i how'ver were 'nongh to rush tack
DEATH NOT MYSTERIOUS.
Mrs.
Heart
. .. ,- ....
i 1 i. 1-1 iL -j to their rooms and save their belonging,
is tliouirht to have unbalanced her mind. . . , . ,
... j . . 1 . , . , . Xobody was hurt, and last night all of
She slipped from her bed, unheard by ,, . . . f, . , .
, . ! 1 , . . .. . . ' the visitors were cared for in the neigh-
her husband, and going into an adjoining , .
rrMttii -.u.L' nm part riilrri. frnm aliplf. 1 . '
Prospective Passeneers on French Liner T1. -:.... ttA .v.. .n . The hotel was a large three-story
tm nf ij., n..- L- 4 i j . ... . i wooden structure with accommodations
Told of Her Danger. ting into bed again, and sitting up, shei. .. .. ,
. I , . . , i ' u i. 'for 250 persons. It was situated on a
New Wk, Feb. 22.-Amencn citizen. PlJt muzzle against her temple, TOrnnmnding a broad outlook, and
who have booked passage on the I-rench Ihe ball passed through her head and vMf foj.
liner Espagne, scheduled to sail from within inches of her husband, lodging in
New York for Bordeaux, France, Thurs-'the wall. ,
The Germans Met with Distastroua Re
pulse South of River Somme.
Imdon. Feb. 22. An attempt by the
Germans to deliver a heavy infantry at-
4..l. . - I :!,..-. ,,t f:
. ., ;,i. . i . ! -Mrs. Minnie Keardon, whose ImkIv was
""I"""'- fIIn,l ; t.P
the hands ot the trench, it was an- i . . ...... nounced lv (-erniany warniiiir
nounced in the official Paris . Utement ' i : ' V uc hpr trouble, nr- jt ar,xrding to information re- be discovered the rifle across his wife's
last night. !?" Prt last night ' ' r- 'reived by officials of the Ilritih eonsu- Up. Mrs. Foss died about 20 mimites
"After having direct-d again, t our 1 1 V .V. , ."""" ".n.,,.-r. , ate hrTf Vetcrday. Mrs. F. Banker later.
linos an intense bombardment and suc-
Minnie Reardon Died of
Fail,,.
r ,, . -,, , - dav. hehruary 24. have received anony- air. j-oss was awancnea Dy tne snot.
Maiden. Mi-.. Dec. 22. The death of;-.. .:... ... ... .i.u ... !.. 1 hir-
Reardon. whose body was, pro M nPW suhnl,rine .jj n. Smelling smoke he went into the kitchen
rooms of the Adams club nounoe(1 (rmBIiy w,rning them not and it was only when he returned that
; rick I)ilry, the woman's escort, who was
detained pending the result of the an- ;
Hillton of "this city, w ho plans to sail ' Besides her husband, she leaves two
The flames started in the attic, proba
bly from spontaneous combustion or a
defective chimney.
THINK EPIDEMIC CHECKED.
No New Cases of Spinal Meningitis Ap
pear at Brandon.
Brandon, Feb. 22. There are no new bort C". (J lesson. Interment was in Green
I Mount remetery.
Jason J. Johnson, aged 7t years, and
his wife, Julia Johnson, have filed a bill
of complaint in Washington county court
asking that a restraining order be made
by the court to prevent their daughter,
Ella Emery, and her husband, Oscar W.
Emery, of Marshfield, from abusing and
threatening them; from interfering with
them in the carrying on of a farm in
Marshfield. until a hearing on the in
junction is held and the orators also auk
that the farm be placed in the hands (i
a receiver and that the defendants be
obliged to make an accounting.
According to the bill filed, the orators
disposed of a farm in South Barre and
through the Terry Real Estate agency
purchased the Pwinell farm in Marsh
field, only part of the purchase price be
ing paid, and it was agreed that the
daughter, Ella, and her husband should
pay a share and the interest on a note
given the Perry agency, and the family
moved onto the farm.
The orators aver tliat the defendants
failed to live up to their agreement to
assist in paying for the farm property
and that against the wish of the orators
have sold farm products ami livestock
and have used the money, making no ac
counting. The defemlants, it is further
alleged, have abused the orators and
threatened to put them off from the
farm. To bring about an adjustment
and to stop this alleged abuse the bill is
brought. S. Hollister Jackson is attor
ney for the orators.
BAILEY TEMPLET0N.
!.. 1. .. .. .. . .!.... . .-I .... '. ii . . luira . ts1 .- nn n f hra
, v S Lrr . top.y. was released. He aid that Mr. i . ' ... 1 . " - u " . .u. . - 'cases or spinal meningitis in town. It
xrrnrn account reman, -along a iront OI p J, . . . . . ne naa received a wuer, typewritten in -" "- uiifrr.4 vi -i. , ..prided hv the itate lh.,r t ,.rr
even kilometer, (about four and one- ?r?," " V,Mt'n W,ff ,nd '""f''" ink on yellow paper, which read: family of five children of Judson Jones of j J" ' J?
third milesl the enen,rtte,r,erl t a. t r n'. thnt whll a.vomp.n1ng her -u.;.m: It is , , er,tvl fh.t Hvde Park. She leave, two brother. B.url?'.t0n Vv ."V .f V M"r"
T cut from hi. trenche. at diver, points, j 2T , J' W'nt !?to V." C.'ub f?m intend to sail within the next few day. William and James Jones, both of this K, f. VJiTe"
lit was everywhere rep.iNed by our bar- , : . . v J . .I' " M,a- upon the ste.mel.ip E.pagne for ,... place. . I....' h. I .1 ,W , vkr. h.n . .
r.x ' . land when he awoke he found tli wnma n J , -...,, I i town nan atxi puoiie arnooi muiaing are
twr firf-t and the fira of our infantrv. V 1 hP ne 1011,1,1 l woman drau, France. oa are doiibtle-a fully f ni r-t-li -
1 UIltT-'llW lUUff. I
v REBEL LEADERS EXECUTED
Follow-ini Their Repulse After Attack on
Governor's Mansion.
Peking, tTiina, Feb. 22. The rebel
eterday attacked the governor', m.n
tm at tl-angtha, the capital of the
Jnevi, of Hti Nig. They were repuleed
raptured and the leader were ie-CUted.
TWO MEN KILLED.
Becance Blast Signal Was Misunder
stood. Glena Fall. X. Y Feb. 22.Two men
were killed and three other eriouIr
injured lat night br a premature dyna
mite exploeion while excavating for" V
barge eanal at XnrthumKrland. A mi
underctandmg of signals n aid to hare
l-eca toKQB-il.l-i lot 1 --- !tnt
aware of the intended tubtuarine Hdicy
wlnrh is to rome into effect any day and
which will he carried out rigorously, ir
respective of the nationality of mtoih
upon the vessel attaiked. Therefore, as
suming that you are aware of the un-
SANK SEVEN VESSELS.
Allied Submarine Caused Panic Among
Turkish Shipping.
I-ondon. Feb. 22 -An allie.1 submarine
usual and unneeearv danger that Ton paed through the Iardnnelle. on Tue-
ar to aubjert yourself to, ymi are re- day lat. rearhetl the Boeplntrus and tor-
iietel to rmm this warning a dn- e.lne.1 one tug an1 i transport, laden
mt and iinqiie-tnmably nerejiry and with munitions, ar-cording to an Athene
whiih you are reiieted n-t to ijie.ii..n dipati'h to Renter. Telegram company.
Uit to acv.i t f.r the afey vf yourM.il ' The preseioe of the hut:!e mabniaruie
h4 L-at of jour family." caued a panic at Constant laople.
Monday morning, and everything will be
running a. usual within a few da vs.
DIED WHILE FISHING.
Frank P. Denning of Burlington Was Oat
On the Ice
Burlington. Feb. 22 Frank P. Pen
ning, aget .vi year. ei n.i,emr to
la v while fi.hing through the i.e -
FUNERAL OF A. P. J0H0NN0TT.
Held At the Home of His Father
in Montpelier.
The funeral of Arthur P. Johonnott, a
retired business man of Montpelier, who
died suddenly in that city Saturday aft
ernoon, was held this afternoon from the
home ot hi. father, the venerable Albert
Johonnott. in Montpelier. Rev. L. C.
Garson, pastor of the Church of the Mes
siah, was the officiating clergyman. The
bearers were A. C. Blamhard. Fred
Rlanehard. t.eorge Hlanchard and Her-'at East Montpelier last evening was a
(HMldaru eeminary graduate. .Mms llallie
R. Templeton. daughter of Mr. and Mr'.
H. I-ee Templeton. and .he was married
to Jaoon B. Bailey, a well known Kat
Montpelier young man. The ceremony
was eMorTned at 8 o'clock. Rev. .1. Jt.
i Reardon of the I niversali-t church of
Harre being the clergyman. The double
ring .ervii-e was ue.. Miss Agne. Rai
ley played the wedding march, and at
the reception follow ing the ceremony.
Bride in East Montpelier Wedding a God-
dard Graduate.
The bride in a pretty home wedding
IN BANKRUPTCY COURT.
First Meeting of Bruce McDonald's Cred
itors Was Held To-day.
The fii-t meeting of the rreditot. f
Bruce McIVnald. a Mntpe!ier shoe deal
er, was held in bankruptcy court at
Montpelier to-daw, when the tmnkrupt ' Mim Eleanor Bailey and Mrs. Harold
appeared and n esammed. le-njamin ' Oiappt I eerved a buffet luncheon,
liate. wa appointH trtntee in the cae. j The bride w graduated from (od.Ur I
with Charles E. Theriaiilt. Jack Roger ;jn l"! and sih.-e that time she ha.
and W. N. Parker a a pprniwr StaiiirM (wleol in her home town. Mr.
liailey attended Mntpelter high arho.l
The U!v of Mr. Fahetti wt,l arrive' an 1 la'er was graduated from the I.yn
m lUrie at 4 X to metMi aiterti- n Hon .Acrirtiitural c1mI. He i a farmer
fke t hamplaio. Acute in..ipetii. a as and Oie funeral will be l.elj tnxn the'hr nccujat en. Mr. and Mr lUnlry wul
tbe ttiuc. station, r--side in Ia.t Montpelier,
