ft
(c )Jc sjc sc )jc J sjs ijs sjc sjc ijc fc ifc Jfc
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
mrr1!? Annn FIATTV -
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
r,DTnp mVrt rrC-MTTG-0NTRA1NS AND NKWJi
PRICE TWO CENTa stands ttvb obnt
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1916
P Ifift Till
m mmuwi
ISiS
1 ABOVE
Zeppelin Destroyed Yesterday Makes q renty-Fifth Since
! War Began British Inflict Heavy s On Germans
I 1 Latter Capture 800 Yards of. Tren s Turks Evacu
i: ating Eastern Armenia British and Kussian Forces Will
' Soon Get Together
-London, Feb. 22. The Paris official announcement of
destruction of the 25th Zeppelin during the war, coupled
with Rotterdam reports that the British had dealt severe
losses to the Germans aroused the British public to a high
pitch of enthusiasm today.
The newspapers pointed out that in air battles and
raids yesterday, 100 aeroplanes participated on all fronts
and that the allies more than held their own.
The Rotterdam dispatches told of British grenade at
tacks on the west front, of bomb throwing from trench
mortars and of occasional bayonet charges, all of which
caused heavy Teuton losses. To meet the attack, it was
said German troops were sent from Ghent to the British
front around Ypres.
Meantime, large numbers of German wounded, arriv
ing at Ghent and Bruges, showed the bloody results of
the English efforts.
The offensive movement continues at several points
from Steenstraete to south of Ypres.
The Germans charged after making gas and artillery
attacks for several hours. The first line trenches were
destroyed at many points by the "Busy Berthas" and
afterward the Teutons used nearly 8,000 men for succes
sive attacks alone a front of less than a mile.
Answering the German
shrawnel. machine eun fire
advancing men, and directed
third line trenches.
Strone artillery fighting:
ed as possibly the beginning of another German offensive
in that vicinity.
The official statement revealed that the Germans had
penetrated the French first line trenches east of Bra-bants-Sur
Meuse, that two German attacks east of Sep
pois had been repelled, and that a Zeppelin had raided
Luneville last night, doing slight damage.
Paris, Feb. 22. Seven German bat
talions curried more than a half mile
of first line French trenches and 'sec
ond line trenches at many points of
the'Bois Givenchv region, it was offici
ally admitted today.
tiv counter attacks, however, the
French drove the invaders from prneti-.
rally all sections of the lines. The (ier-
mans lost henvilv.
Germans Capture Trenches.
Berlin, Feb. 22. The Germans cap
fined 800 vnrils of French t re lichen audi
.'i'.'li prisoners east of Souehez, the war
office annouueed today.
The fighting along the Aisne and
Champngne fronts was described as
growing more violent.
"Northwest of Tahure," said the
statement, "French grenade attacks
failed."
Bombard Biblical City. j
Athens, Feb. 22. Three allied war
Khips have bombarded the suburbs of;
Kphesus, biblical city in Asia Minor. I
Constantinople advices said four per-
nuns were killed and several wounded,;
i ;
hh Elartia $
;
!
When th' nianufacturer'h o' some
article git t'gether an' deride t' raise
th' price of it, they give out a "pre
diction" that we'll have t' pay more
fer it. Vmi M think s,me fdlk' names
wii. on th' program by th' way they try1
t' show oil' in a the-ater. j
if Ml
BATTLE
moves, the French streamed
and explosive shells upon the
counter attacks from the
around Verdun was regard
but that the temple of Diana and other
famous places were not damaged.
Turks in Full Retreat.
London, Feb. 22. As the Turks are
retiring before the Russians along a
210 mile front British reinforcements
are being sent up the Tigris to Kut-el-anr.ira
to meet the menace of a possible
Turki.di junction there with forces al
ready on hand.
If the weather permits, the new Br'
tish troops will relieve (feneral Tow
shed's garrifon at Kut-el-amnra am1
then engage in a new offensive toward
Bagdad.
The Turks are completely evacuating
Armenia between Krzarum and Mush,
while the Russians are approaching
Bash Chifdik and Oghnat.
Australia is Loyal.
Buffalo, N. Y., Feb. 22. Austrulia
stands ready to make even greater sac
rifices than she already has made in the
aid of Great Britain, declared Premier
W. H. Hughes, of Australia, today, here
en route to London to confer with the
cabinet about the war.
"Australia," he said, "will send
,100,000 more troops, equipped, trained
and maintained by Austrulia; to the aid
of Great Britain before the year ends.
1 am hopeful that the war will end this
year, but however long it continues,
Australia will aid with all her resour
ces." Turks Lost 40,000.
Petrograd, Feb. 22. Forty thousand
Turks were killed, wounded or taken
prisoners in the capture of Krzerum
and subsequent nxration, said dis
patches today. Other Turks arc being
taken prisoners daily.
Zeppelin Shot Down.
Berlin, Feb. 22. That a Zeppelin
was shot down last night near iicv
eigny was officially admitted today.
(The above apparently refers to the
same airship which the Paris war of
fice last night claimed had been
destroyed.
SENATOR WAXES WBATHY
Chairman Stone of the senate
military committee indulged
himself today in st raight f rom-the-shoubler
language, in refer
ring to reports that he and
President Wilson had consid
ered warning Americans to
keep off armed merchantmen.
"It's a damned lie," he said,
"and the man who said it is a
damned liar."
$
IK
FATE OF COMPANY ENLISTED FROM KING'S ESTATE A MYSTERY; O
V WILDLY CHARGED INTO GALLIPOLI FOREST, NEVER RETURNED
Loinlon, Fob. 22. (Special.) A niys-jed
tery hangs over the fate of the gallant !
meniDers or tnc r inn rsorrolK regiment,
who duplieated the "charge of the Im
mortal Mx Hundred" into a (iallipoli
forest and have since been lost to sight
and sound. All the eligible men of King
George's Snndringham, estate enlist-
1812 HEADGEAR IN STYLE
Amsterdam, Feb. 22. On ae
eouat of the lack of military
equipment, Herman soldiers at
(Sinlerwick on tnc Dutch fron
tier now we.ir headgear dating
back to 181.'!, which was worn
by the Prussians who fought
against Napoleon. This head
gear is not far out of styie as
compared with the modern hel
met. The Germans call them
"Helmets of Victory."
TO KEEPOFF ESPAGNE
Warning Similar to That Sent
Before Sailing of the
Lusitania
New York, Feb. 22. Shipping of
""" I'lintrsscu louuy 10 ICOI 110 1111-
easiness about warnings of peril for the
French liner Espagne, received bv
American passengers booked to sail on
her for Bordeaux Friday, indeed,
they claimed not to have seen any of
me warnings. An investigation is
known to bo under way, however, as
to the source of n warning sent to Mrs.
F. B. Hilton, one of those scheduled to
sail.
The Espange offices refused to ex
press an opinion as to whether the
warning came from a responsible
source.
Officials refused to believe that the
warnings portend a repetition of the
Lusitania case, though they recollected
that like warnings had been sent be
fore that vessel left port last spring.
The present warnings called attention
to the fact that Austria and Germany
are about to put into effect a policy
of submarine attacks against armed
merchant ships.
The warning letter to Mrs. Hilton
said :
"Madame: It is understood you in
tend to sail within a few days upon
the Espange for Bordeaux. You are
doubtless aware of the intended sub
marine policy coming into effect any
day which will be carried out vigor
ously and irrespective of the national
ity of passengers. Therefore, assuming
that you are nwure of the unusual and
unnecessary danger to which you are
subjecting yourself, you arc requested
to accept this warning as a definite
one, w hich you are requested not to I
question, but to accept for the safety of
yourself and family."
The sailing of the Espange, slated for
Thursday, was'postponcd today to Fri
day, but officials declared this was not
due to the warning.
Villa With Army of 900
Lays Siege to Guerrero
El Paao, Texas, Feb. 22. Guerrero,
state of Chihuahua, is under siege by
General Francisco Villa and 000 fol
lowers. So hard pressed is the citv.
that the commander of the Carrnnza
! garrison has appealer for assistance,
Inlying that his forces are outnumbered,
but that he w ill try to hold out until
reinforcements arrive.
I Villa has executed HO prisoners tak
en near Cusihuiriachio in dispersing a
Carr inzistn column under General
CnMihos, sent to exterminate him.
Through this victory, Villa repleni-hed
bid More of ammunition.
w ' . rr f T.H?A,"r 1
Fifth Norfolk regiwpnt.
a a fooly in the regiment. The '
j,,
personally knew iinictieally :
every member of the company and j
besidea had a hearty interest in thcii beis of the company. The photo
adventures. The regiment was as- shows the "march out" of the corn
signed to (iallipoli, and there all pnny before its departure for the
trace of the men was lost. King Dardanelles.
11IZED GANG
Or BLACKMAILERS
IWN
Warrants Issued In Seattle
for Isabel Ciayberg and
Lillian Peterson
SEATTLE MILLIONAIRE
LUMBERMAN IS VICTIM
Lured Victims to Room Where
Compromising Pictures
Were Secured
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 22. Warrants
have been issued here today for the ar
rest of Miss Lillian Peterson, of Bil
lings, Montana, and Miss Isabel Clay
berg, of Los Angeles, whose address is
given as (i75 South Coronado street.
They are charged with black mailing a
millionaire Seattle lumberman.
According to a statement alleged to
have been made to Deputy Sheriff M.
K. Hally and Prosecutor Alfred II. Lun
ilin last night by a woman examined in
connection with the affair, the two
women named on the warrants are mem
bers of a syndicate who have preyed
upon a small army of wealthy and in
fluential men on the Pacific 'roust for
several years.
Millionaires, multimillionaires anil
mm of national as well as internation
al affairs are said to be among the
victims.
According to the alleged statement of
the woman, the two women nnmed in
the warrants worked hand in hand here
with a prominent firm of attorneys in
luring the wealthy "dupes" to hand
somely furnished bouses situated in var
ious parts of the city, where by clever
manipulation photographs were made
of the victims in compromising situa
tions. Pictures Made Them Pungle.
Fabulous sums of money, frequently
as much as $10,000 and $l."i,00O, It is
declared, were obtained when the vic
tims were confronted with the photo
prnnhs and were sold the neentives.
The list of victims reads like a "blue
book " of Seatthj society.
Actual photograph of some of the
prominent men in financial and com
mercial affairs heie, bankers, owners of
downtown skyscrcpers and others are
held in the sheriff's office as evidence
against the several persons to be ar
rested. The alleged gang has extended its
operations all up and down the Pa
cific, coast, it is charged. Warrants arc
to be asked for by Sheriff Bob Hodge
and Deputy Hally for the arrest of sev
eral other women. Arrests of the high
er ups ii the affair are expected to
follow.
The story of the plot and its unfold
ing, of the quiet, cautious investiga
tions by Peputy Sheriff Hally, rends
like fiction.
(ieorge Henley, a county jail prisoner,
ns he was beiu booked for ulleged
liurglnrly, eight weeks ago, muttered
the remnrk. ' ' This is a f mine up on the
part of certain members of the police
department to get me. 1 know too much
about tneni."
PREYS ON R
(i.ontinucd ou Pai Eight.)
(leu ice has ordered cvcrv i.ossiblo
inquiry to be mnilo tliroimh diplo-
matic channels regarding the mem-
:.
WAR NEWS OF ONE
YEAR AGO TODAY
The American cotton steam
er Kvelyn struck a mine off the
German coast and sang. Ger
mans made a second air raid on
Knglisb coast towns. Petiogr.ul
said the Teutons attempt to
wipe out the Russians in Kast
Prussia failed, but admitted
continuance of the Russian re
treat. !s X
Tong War Stirs District Attor
ney to Action Killing
Must Be Stopped
Portland, Ore., Feb. 22. A general
cleanup of Chinatown probably will be
ordered by District Attorney Evans to
day as a result of the tong bnttlo yes
terday when four Hop Sing highbinders
chased Wong Ching, nn aged member of
tho Bow Leong tong, down the street
and emptied two revolvers into his
body.
Wong Ching, the aged Bow Leong
tongman who was chased and shot yes
terday afternoon by four alleged Hup
Sing gunmen, died this morning. Four
bullets had penetrated his stomach.
Julian Alaliero, a Chinese-Filipino hy
brid, is in the city jit i I suspected as one
of the shooters. It was Alnbero who
was identified in November, 1011, as the
Hop Sing highbinder who entered the
restaurant of Aim Wong, a prominent
Suev Sing, nnd stabbed him in the back
ns he snt eating his bowl of rice. For
some mysterious reason Alnbero was
released after his deed had stirred up
the tong war, of which the present trou
bles nre a part.
Double patrols of police have been or-
I dered to Chinatown by Chief Clark. Re-
iiuns limn i ,m minute, i ne wanes, ncai
tle and other cities, tell of suspicious
arrivals and departures in Chinntown.
The Bing Kong member who was badly
cut nnd beaten nt La Grande last week
is still in a serious condition.
The Hop Sings, most powerful of the
war tongn in the northwest, have been
badly worsted in most of the clashes
j thus far. Their opponents, tho Bing
I Kongs, Bow Leongs and Suey Sings,
jhave kept to their homes, coming into
the open only tontrike viciously and fn
j tally, then disappearing behind barred
doors again.
I Yesterday's blow was struck bv the
Hop Sings and cnlls for the shedding
of more Hop Sing blood at the hands
of the allies. Their victim, however,
wtis hardly worth thn c.hnse. Poor old
Wong Ching couldn't run fast enough
to give the litho Hop Sing gunmen a
merry chase.
The War in Seattle.
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 22. Tontr wnr
j in Seattle is hanging in the balance.
I Detectives in the confidence of peace
( seeking Chinese, said this morning that
j word may be sent out of Snn Francisco
or Portland any minute that will result
in wholesale bloodshed. The Bow
Leong tong, said to be in a majority
in Seattle nnd Portland, but grentlv out
numbered in Sail Francisco by the Hop
sings, nre said to be mndn up of the
more wealthy and powerful Chinese in
the United States.
The Bow Leongs are said to have
gained the upper hand in Seattle, nnd
(Continued on Pago Eight.)
WANT DECREE AGAINST
ARMED
German Public Solidly Behind Kaiser In Determination Ta
Attack Armed Merchantmen-Americans Must Keep OIF
Such Ships Or Take the Consequences-United States
Stands Firm In Demanding Assurances That Ships Be
Warned Before Attack
By Carl W. Ackerman,
United Press Staff Correspondent.
Berlin, Feb. 22. With Germany's patience toward
America vanishing, riot the slightest desire is manifest
here to postpone operation of the Teutonic decree of war
fare aeainst armed merchantmen because of United
States protests.
The popular feeling is that Americans musc surrer me
consequences if they embark on armed ships, instead of
seeking passage upon neutral, unarmed vessels. The
patience. Germany displayed toward America during the
Lusitania negotiations no longer exists, because the
popular feeling is that America already has hindered 'so
many of Germany's plans.
For the past two days, the newspapers have not dis
cussed the American attitude toward the Austro-German
decree. It is known here, however, that German-American
difficulties have not been solved and while some quar
ters believe an adjustment will be reached, others are ex
tremely pessimistic.
The public is impatiently awaiting the proposed un
dersea attacks against armed merchantmen, while the
anti-English feeling, always evident, has become intensi
fied as a result of the German-American dispute. This
spirit has been shown in the favorable comments upon
German air raids against the English., . ,
Officials who have read Secretary of State Lansing a
statement to Ambassador Von Bernstorff are surprised,
in view of unofficial reports, that America is willing to
warn citizens to keep off armed ships.
Germany is apparently united in its approval of sub
marine attacks against armed ships, for all parties are
urging that there be no compromise in the matter.
Washington, Feb. 22. The adminis
tration today practically decided to end
the informal conferences between Sec
retary of State Lansing and (iermnn
Ambassador Von Bemstnrf f over diplo
matic questions, and to disputch a form
..i ....t t (1,,1-nmnv emntiasi.ing tho
need for unequivocal assurances about
Teutonic sulunarine wariurc.
The only thing that can intervene to
frustrate this plan is the arrival of def
inite assurances that the Teuton procla
mation of warfare against armed mer
chantmen will not become effective
March 1 as ordered. .Moreover, Ger
many must make such assurances square
with the primuses given during mo
Lusitania negotiations.
i. :.. .,.,1 tlmt the ndministrn-
tion hns concluded that the confidential
discussions of the situation nave out
lived their usefulness in view of the
present apparent impasse and the per
sonal bad feeling between tho secre
tary and envov.
Secretary of State Lansing and the
president conferred today for half an
hour at the White House on the Lusi
tania situation, but Lansing, upon leav
ing, refused to say what they had dis
cussed. Friends arc putting pressure on tho
president to have him convey to the
country a clear idea of the stutirs of
pending negotiations, exactly what is
demanded by the Cnited States and
how long the administration is going to
pursue its "diplomatic chase" in the
Lnsitnina situation, in rcspousii n .
demand, the president is planning to
throw a little additional light upon the
negotiations.
It wns deemed significant that tin
Teuton envoy has absented himself
from the state department and has kept
silent, since Lansing vigorously indi
cated his displeasure at the conduct of
Von Bernstorff and the apparent Ger
manic "propaganda" efforts.
Authorities expressed concern over
the receipt of nuonymmis warnings by
American passengers booked to 'sail
Thursday from New York on the French
liner L'spngne. In this connection, they
recalled that similar warnings were giv
en passengers of the Lusitania before
she sailed out of New York to her de
struction by n (Iermnn torpedo.
The president conferred Inst night
with Chairmen Stone and Flood of the
senate and house foreign committees,
and is now prepared to co opernte with
congress in every step of tho future ne
gotiations with (iermany.
Senator Stone is preparing to mako
a speech in defense of the administra
tion 'a course toward the decree and it
is expected he will outline the principles
followed by the government in its ro
f until to accept tho proclamation as
valid.
It is understood the state depart
ment gave Stone information concern
ing its attempts to secure a promise
from the allies that they would disarm
merchantmen. Stone is expected to show
IPS ENFORCED
that Austria and fic.nr.ny prccipitate.l
a gravo issue a blunder according to
tho dopartujnt view by proclnimnig;
the new warfuro instead of waiting t
learn what tho allies would do toward
the American request for disarmament.
In tho Kspagno case, tho government
hns no evidence that the warning to
passengers originated from official Ger
man sources, nor is it informed that
tho Kspngne falls within the armed
merchantman class.
What the foreign offico will do aft
erward the embassy docs not know.
"We have heard frequently that
Americans were warned not to suil on
a belligerent ship. Often these are sent
out by cranks, but we can't afford to
tnko chances," snid an embassy of-,
fieinl.
Tho German embassy's ciew was th-t
tho warning was the work of a crank.
An official f.aid that as tho Kspngne is
on unarmed ship, (Iermany is not con
cerned about her.
It is either a case of keeping Amer
ican cit.ir.eim off armed ships or sever
ing diplomatic, relations, which would
lend to war," said a prominent demo
cratic, congressman in discussing the
situation today. "I favor kcepiug citi
zens off the ships."
He believed that n resolution calling
for a warning would bo introduced itt
tho house and senate.
Increase Regular Array to
150,000, and Raise Militia
Strength to 450,000
Washington, Feb. 22. America will
hava available at tho end of five year
moro than ,OUI),0()0 trnued soldiers it
plans of house leaders materialize.
These plans, on which tho military com
mittee is now working to frame its bill,
call for the following:
increase of tho regular army to JjU,-
000 men.
Jncreusn of tho militia, under a plan
of federalization, to 425,1)00.
Provision for i reserve of -73,000 reg
ulars ami 100,000 militiamen through,
annual retirement.
Whether I'res'dent Wilson will ac
cept tho houso plan for federalizing tho
militia is uncertain. As it now stands,
this plan would provide tor merely nom
inal stuto control, for drafting tho mil
itia iu c 110 of war, .ind would bar th
militiamen from federal pay unless
titers were uniform federalized, trail
