Have You Sent in TL-?,
Your Order for 1 ??
Sunday Herald
?
AS first announced January 1, 1916. The Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the purchaser*
of article? advertised m the display columns of this
paper by any Washington merchant
(Circolar Fmmitked I'pon Request).
NO. 3384.
WEATHER: CLOUDY
WASHINGTON, D. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 21. 1916.
ONE CENT.
!? ?vaMBtZwa? tara? r?????
TW II ?IM?
HERALD 50,000
CIRCULATION
CAMPAIGN ON
Three Autos, Two Pianos and
$350 Grafonola Will Be
Grand Prizes.
ALL MAY ENTER RACE
Contest Aims to ?Secure 50,
000 Daily and Sunday
Circulation.
50 AWARDS ARE TO BE MADE
Those Who Do Not Win Prizes Will
Receive 10 Per Cent Commission
od New Subscriptions.
Join the "?.ODO Club" today and win a
valuable prise at the expenae of The
Waahingtoti Herald.
It ia only a question of a ahort time
before the circulation of Th* Herald will
reach the d?,00? mark. But dealrlng to
hasten this achievement It has been de
cided to invite the people of the city
and all Its suburbs where The Herald is
circulated to help in the undertaking
and reap the commission that would go
to subscription agents. That will be the
least reward than can come to them. It
may be multiplied a thousand told.
To be a member of the "50.000 Club"
will cost you nothing, but It may bring
yon a valuable prize, among which are
automobiles, pianos, and grafonolas.
If you do not win one of the fifty
valuable prlxes you will be paid a cash
commission of 10 per cent on_all new
subscriptions turned in.
Thi? is not. properly speaking, a eon
test. It 1? merely giving the people
an opportunity to share in the profits
that are coming to The Herald through
its steadily Increasing circulation.
Under the new rates?JO cents a
month daily and 8unday?the readers
of the paper ar? enabled to save 16 a
year. Thi* was The Herald's first step
In giving Ua readers a complete metro
p*lit*aO n?w*p?p*r at the loweat pos
arle ?oat
The second step was to Insure it*
reader.? a guarantee of their money's
worth In purchasing merchandise adver
tised in this paper. ....
The third step is to give members of
the '"30,000 Club" an opportunity to win
one of the fifty magnificent prlxes at no
cost to them except a little effort
among friends and neighbors for votes.
The conteat la open not only to the
people of the District, truX also to reel
dents of adjoining territory and all ter
ritory in which The Waahlngton Herald
circulates.
It costs you nothing to join, and you
are sure of being handsomely rewarded.
Thr? motor cars, two high-grade pianos
and a $350 Baby Grand grafonola are
offered as grand prlxes. Irrespective of
district*.
Therefore, no matter where you live,
you can win the C30 Mitchell by ob
taining the largest number of votes. The
second largest vote wilt win the Saxon.
The third largest vote brings you the
Maxwell. The fourth highest wins thi
Bradbury player piano. The fifth largest
vote wins the Chickering piano. Th?
aixth largaist rote brings to your home
the Columbia Grafonola.
Eleves Dlatrlct? Plaaaed.
The territory in which The Washington
Herald circulates is divided into eleven
districts and there are four prlxes tc
each district. First district prize Is a
$100 furniture order on Fred S. Lincoln
Co.. Inc.: second district prize a tat
merchandise order on local merchants:
third district prize, a $25 merchandise or
der on local merchants; and fourth dis?
trlct prise, a $1150 merchandise order on
local merchants. Every other active
member of the "50,000 Club" who doea
net win a prize will be paid a cash com
mission of ten per cent on all ?ubacrlp
tlon? he or she collect*
Almost any one can easily win an au
tomobile, a piano, or the Grafonola by
joining The Washington Herald's "30,
0CO Clab" and going right after the
votes.
Of course. If It happens to be the Mitch
ell car or Bradbury Player Plano, ao
much the better, but any one df the fifty
prizes are well worth while. When you
stop to consider that every member eith
er wins a prize or a cash commission you
will certainly want to be among the first
to enter.
Cornanti??? of Caatnl,
Aay reliable person of standing, re
siding In the territory in which Th?
Waahlngton Herald circulate*. Is eligi
ble to enter the campaign
No employee of The Washington
H-?ald, or members of their families,
wtll b? permitted to enter the etiti
?jalgn.
Candidates can nominate themselves
or be nominated by their friends.
Tne Campaign Manager reserves the
right to reject any nomination.
T?u ??111 find a nomination blank 1.?
good for 1,000 votes which gives you a
fine start.
Vote* will bs issued on pald-in-ad
vanee subscriptions to The Washing
ton Herald.
Nominations accompanied with a
threa-months cash subscription or
longer will receive 5.000 extra votes.
V?te? will be given on new ?uhscrip
OOXTUtVSD OX PAGI THMZ.
No Hope for Pollentia.
Sinking in Mid-Ocean
Se?*<**?i1 to Tb? "?????* ??-*?sp HrraM.
Halifax, Jan. 20.?All hope of
saving the steamer Pollentia,
in distress in the mid-Atlantic,
has been given up, and the
steamer will be abandoned to
morrow morning.
She is now helpless in a heavy
sea and with no possible hope
of getting her to land. r
The captain of the steamer
Siamese Prince, now alongside
tlie Pollentia, flashed a radio
tonight that he would stand by
until morning and then take off
the crew. This information was
in a wireless message relayed to
Cape Race and then to Halifax.
The Pollentia is leaking badly
and is deep in the water.
NEAR DEATH IN
LABORATORY
Expl
osion at Bureau of Chem
istry Endangers Chem
ists' Lives.
WORKERS FORCED TO DODGE
PIECES OF FLYING STEEL
Building Rocked by Blast Heard for a
Block?Valuable Instruments
Destroyed.
8even chemists narrowly escaped injury
or death yesterday when the carbo
hydrate laboratory of the Bureau of
Chemistry waa wrecked by an explosion
which rocked the building.
The blast threw the hundreds of em
ploye? of the bureau Into a near-panic,
the exploaton occurring at 4:35. aa they
?ere quitting work. The damage w
estlmated to be about $1,000.
The cause of th? explosion is being In
vestigated. It o--?*urre?i in a heating
oven.
One of the heavy ateel end? of the
heater waa blown through a window and
another steel door, flying paat a group
of employes, wa? embedded In a cabinet.
Nearly a dozen windows in the labora
tory w*arc ?battered by the blast.
Th? laboratory I? used for experiment?
p frugar manufacturing. Dr. F. A. La
Forge, assistant chief of the laboratory,
and six assistants were in the room when
the explosion occurred. The blast was
heard for blocks.
The principal los* was ln the damage
to valuable instruments and the demol
ishing of jars and glassware. Oficial?
made a preliminary survey of the
wrecked room, and estimated the damage
between WOO and S1.0O0. The laboratory is
on the south side of the third floor of
the Bureau of Chemistry Building, 21?
Thirteenth street southwest.
Public Building
Saved From Plot
Two Suspects Arrested with
Bomb Following Threat to
Blow Up Structure.
SptH-ial tn The Wiibinftoa Brrald.
New York. Jan. 2C.?A bomb plot aimed
at a public building ls believed to have
been frustrated tonight by the arrest of
Michele Grasiano and Leonardo de Vizio.
Both, the police say, are associated with
the Bresci group of anarchists.
Grasiano was arrested In the Manhat
tan terminus of the Brooklyn Bridge. He
carried at the time a powerful bomb ln
a suitcase. For half an hour he had
been loitering in the corridors of the
Municipal Building. Capt. Tunney, of the
"bomb squad." admits his office had been
Informed an attempt would be made to
blow up "some Immense public building
In New York City tonight" ?Devialo was
arrested in his home two hours after
Grasiano had been arrested.
Both men are technically charged with
"acting in concert ln having a bomb In
their possession with which they Intended
to destroy life and property."
Mrs. Harriman Buys Summer Place.
Mlddletown, N. Y., Jan. 20.?The Sum
mit Lake House and all the property
connected with lt has been purchased
by Mrs. Mary W. Harriman, widow of
K. H. Harriman. This is a summer re
sort which was erected fifty years aso.
Mrs. Tweedie-! Son Killed.
Ivondon. Jan. 20.?Leslie Tweedie,
son of Mrs. Alec Tweedie, the author,
has been killed In France. He w?s a
lieutenant in the artillery.
Eastman Company Loses.
Buffalo. N. Y., Jan. 20?Petition by the
?...-111?? Kodak Company for the review
of the government suit before the Fed
eral Trade Commission w?? denied by
Judge Hazel. Formal decree of dissolu
tion was ?Igned by Judje Haxel, who
granted sixty days to file appeal.
Shocked to Death in Tub.
New York. Jan. 20.?The full current of
electricity par-sins: through his body.when
his head came In contract with an
electric light fixture, while he stood in bla
bath tub. C. Frederick Fit-risk, of Port
Jefferson, was liyrtartlj? YAlri Id*Ut.
ALLIED VESSELS
OPEN FIRE ON
BUL6AR PORT
Five Warships Bombard
Dedeagatch, Blowing Up
Barracks and Supplies
LANDING IS EXPECTED
Allies Have 600,000 Men in
War Theater?Turks Sent
to Help Bulgars.
GREEKS TO ASK WITHDRAWAL
If Entente Powers Refuse. Parliament
Will Decide Monday Either To
Resist or Demobilize.
81-erial CiM? to The tVfAlnston Her?Id.
London, Jan. 20.?Five allied warships
ln the Aegean have heavily bombarded
l.edeagatch, the Bulgarian port. The
Saloniki correspondent of the Dally Tele
graph wire? th?t two barrack? were
blown up and a military train destroyed
The Reuter agency aends out a dis
patch from Saloniki which says that great
damage was done by the bombardment.
Several storehouses of war supplies were
set afire. The bombardment is believed
to be preliminary to a landing. Dede
agatch I? between Gallipoli and Kavaia,
the Greek port at which the allies are
report***d to have sent troops ashore.
The allies arc reported to have ?0,000
men now operating In the eastern Medi
terranean and Aegean. A landing in
great force. In which veterans of the
Gallipoli campaign would lead the way
for an attack on Constantinople from the
rear, is hoped for Jn London.
lt has been reported that large Tur
kish forces have been sent to Dedeagatch
to r.ssist the Bulgarians In fighting off
an allied attempt to throw men ashore.
Today's dispatches brought reports
of the following developments:
King Constantin? has decided to ask
the allies to withdraw from Greek
soil If they refuse, lie will go to
Parliament, whirh convenes on More
day, and seek the advice of the peo
ple on using force to expel the allied
I troops. If the members counsel
against force, the Greek army prob
ably will be demobllxed. The allies
will thus be left freedom of action ?
in Greek Macedonia.
Under pressure, the King has re
versed his decision to declare nation
wide martial law.
Berlin reports that the time of the
ultimatum said to have been deliver
ed to the Greek King by the allies has
expired. His answer is not known.
The ultimatum was said to hav? de
manded that the German, Austrian,
Bulgarian, and Turkish envoys be
handed their passport? and the con
suls dismissed forthwith, on penalty
of action by the Franco-British to
"guard their Interest-?.'?
Intervention Hope
In Senate Is Dead
Republicans Refuse Wilson
Advantage that War in
Mexico Would Bring.
The minority in the Senate in favor
of Intervention in Mexico is stili numeri
cally negligible, after ten days of heated
controversy following the murder of
eighteen American citizens at Santa
Ysabel.
This Is the conviction of Senator Borah,
after a canvass of sentiment In the Sen
ate. Opposition among Republican Sen
ators ls based on the ground that action
now would result In substantial political
advantage to President Wilson.
The feeling among Democratic Senators.
? as Senator Borah finds It. is that Imme
diate intervention might be of less politi
cal value than action taken mor? nearly
on tha eve of the Presidential campaign
All the Intervention resolutions have
gone over until the next meeting of the
Foreign Relations Committee. Unless
some other outrage ls committed, it Is be
lieved they will be still further postponed
in line with the Democratic policy of
keeping the lid down tight on the Mexi
can question.
Has "Sleeping* Sickness."
New York, Jan. 30.?Dr. Albert C. Per
rell. victim of the mysterious African
"sleeping sickness. ' tonight is dying at
his home ln Brooklyn. The malady, un
known in this country, was contracted
by the physician five years ago while In
Africa. There is not a smelt- case on rec
ord where a cure of the strange disease
hiis been effected.
Miss Davies, Aviatress, Dies.
I .ondon, Jan. SO.?Miss Trehawke Dav
ies. the English aviatress, died today.
She made many flishts at great heights
and recently stated that aviation was
? good cure for insomnia.
G. A. E. Will Meet at Utica.
Albany, N. Y? Jan. 20?The council of
? administration of the G. A. R., Depart
ment of New York, today voted to hold
i the Pt?(? encan.ptnant at Utica, June 27,
\m mma?a.
Representative Page Calls
D. C. Heads' Proposed School
Change Scheme Too Radical
j Lloyd Subcommittee Convinced, However, That Board of
Education Should Be Made Indirectly Responsible
to Congress?Two Plans Are Presented.
By JO ?. ??? ? p. AMMtM.
With two proposals for substantial
modification of the Commissioners' pro
posal to take over all authority now
vested In the Board of Education pend
ing before the committee, hearings on
the Commissioners* bill were terminated
late yesterday afternoon.
The proposals were:
By Representative I.loyd, rhalrman of
the subcommittee conducting tbe hear
ings?That the present authority and
duties of the Board of Education re
main as at present, but that the appoint
ing power be lodged In the President of
the United States Instead of in the mem
bers of the Supreme Court of the aJls
I trlrt.
By Representative Robert N. Page,
chairman of the District Appropriation?
.Subcommittee?The same proposal as
Mr. Lloyd's except that the appointing
power be lodged In the District Com
mlanioners.
Both proposals aim to eliminate the
one objection which members of the
committee hold to be well founded In
regard to the present system?that as
power to remove for cause is vested In
no olTlce or individual the Board of
Education is not responsible to any au
thority for Its acts. With the power of
appointment vented in an office respon
sible to Congrea*. members feel the sys
tem would be better balanced without
ODMM ON G??? mi
Dr. Magnes Secures $10,000
By Dramatic Plea For Jews
Pulpit Orator Pictures Thousands of Women and Babes Who
Cry for Food and Shelter and Contributions Pour in
from 1,500 at Hebrew Temple.
Approximately 110,0-QO was contributed
by the Jews of Washington toward the
Jewish war relief fund at the mase
meeting at the Eighth Street Temple last
night.
As Rev. Dr. John I* Magnes, of New
York, told of the thousands of Jews of
Poland who have been driven from their
homes, their sisters and sweetheart.??
violated by the Cossacks and their homes
destroyed, tears blotted the vision of the
1,500 who crowded the church.
When Dr. Magne? liad finished hl? ap_
iK-allng story, hands shot up from every
corner of tlie edifice and the speaker s
volee was smothered under the cries of
"I'll give $300," "III give $100. ' "I'll giva
?jSOL" ?iji j-ive $2S?" and mo on down t"
the poorest in the a.sserobl.?ge. scores
of whom Rave fi. Julius Peyser, tn
charge of the local collections, was un
RUSS STRIKE
HARD AT FOE
Four Great Armies Fighting
on Dvina and in Bessarabia,
Caucasus and Persia.
gptci&l Cible to The Washington HeraM.
London, Jan. TO.?From Dvlnsk. south
east of Riga, to the center of Persia, four
great Russian armies are fighting?and
winning, according to the Russian re
ports.
On the Drlna, they have driven back
a German column; ln Bessarabia they
have captured an Austrian position; in
the Caucasus, they have smashed the
Turks, and in Persia, they have defeated
a rebel force.
Hand-to-hand, of Increasingly violent
character, and on an extended scale,
marks the campaign on the Ressarablan
frontier. The Russians have fought their
way Into the Austrian trenches time
after time, only to be repulsed with
heavy losses, according to the Austrian
official report.
Both sides have been heavily re-in
fofced.
The Czar has left Petrograd and, ac
cording to a dispatch from the Rus
sian capital, is proceeding to the front
near Czernowitz. It is at that point
that the general engagement ?a de
veloping, on which the success of the
great flanking movement now under
way Is believed to depend.
Petrograd, Jan. 10.?Serious fighting
has occurred on the northern front In
the neighborhood of Jacobstadt Dur
ing a German attempt to turn the Rus
sian flank In the Drlsviaty district,
the Russians withdrew unpercelyed,
with the result that the German flank
ing columns came Into collision and
inflicted heavy losses on each other
before the mistake was discovered.
Availing themselves of the confusion
the Russians then attacked success
fully and expelled the Germans.
Pope Will Confer Red Hats.
Rome, Jan. 20.?Pope Benedict XV, has
decided to hold a consistory early In
March, for the purpose of conferring
the red hat upon Cardinal Scapanelll,
pa:al nuncio to Vienna, and Cardinal
Truhwirth, papal nunico ?? Munich, who
were elevated to the cardinalate last
month. ?
Wife I? Acquitted.
Lancaster. Fa.. Jan. 20.?Mr?. Annie
Etsenberger, charged with murdering
her husband on December 18, while he
waa asleep, was found not guilty this
afternoon. The Jury was out ?Ince Tues
day.
Kaiser Arrives in Belgrade.
Berlin, Jan. 20.?Emperor William ar
rived In Belgrade today and ?u en
thusiastically greeted.
able to alale accurately the amount
contributed. It was estimated at $10.000.
While Dr. Magues was picturing
thousands of Jewish women, plodding
along the roads of Russian Poland
with hungry bab*a in their arms, an
Infant in the balcony of ths church
broke th** stillness with a loud cry.
The ?'.?.? -i? " -a-fnifd annoyed, but Dr.
Magnes admonished them:
"Ali, my friends, that lfl but one
babe, bear with it. Tonight there are.
perhaps, thousands of babes cry ing to
you for food, for clothing to shield
them from the cold ; for shelter from
the lonely roads of persecution and
exile.
"TSe y sba? need your h?lp a* long
as this war lasts, or as long as your
people suffer persecution and opprea
G???1??? ON PAGE THREE.
MAY BAR U. S.
FROM BALTIC
Allies Believed to Plan Block
ade of Approaches
to Sea.
Both at the State Department and ln
Congress there were developments of Im
portance yesterday concerning Great
Britain's interference with American
commerce.
It was learned that the Stats Depart
ment has reason to believe that Great
Britain. France, and Russia may attempt
to close the approaches to the Baltic sea.
In lieu of establishing a legal blockade
of German Baiti: porta These ap
proaches are now important highways
of American commerce.
The position of the State Department on
this question can be stated as follows:
1?The United States will maintain that
commerce has "the right of passage" in
to the Baltic.
t. To admit the right of the allies
to close the Baltic would be to ad
mit that they had the right to block
ade neutral ports.
Would Limit Freedom.
The whole drift of the American
contentions is that belligerents can
not blockade neutral ports, because
it would be tantamount to a denial
of the principle of the freedom of th?
seas.
State Department officials are still
of the opinion that all the allies could
do without violating International law
is to establish a definite blockade of
German ports on the Baltic sea. Of
ficials admit they would be willing to
regard as effective the blockade of
such German potts by submarines.
It ts expected that If the allies
should close the approaches, they
?would couple it with some "friendly
special" privileges to American and
other neutral vessel.?. The disposi
tion of* officials, however. Is that the
first duty of this government is to
.-h?llense the right of establishing
a long distance blockade of the Bal
tic If protests are of no avail. Con
gress could take the question under
advisement.
Officials are waiting on the debate
in Parliament to learn Just what the
allies propose.
Former P. 0. Employes Fined.
Tarkersburg, W. Va.. Jan. ?.?.?Alleged
ito have been instrumental in holding up
I the delivery of the United States mails,
by resigning In a body, twenty-four men.
former employes of the postoflice at
Fairmont, West Virginia, pleaded guilty
| before Federal Judge Dayton today.
i T*hev wet-e flntd sums ranging from
Ii.?" to 1500.
(?aat Line'? "Florida SpartmL''
Florida? finest train. 8:15 ? m. daily.
3 other all-steel ltd. trains daily. 3:i>.>,
?:S0 p. m., 4 JO a. m. 1406 ?. T. ave. nw.
?v.
COUKT SEEKS A55TL1?EKT.
tpprala t? Papal Cotart ta Set Ma
ria?*-?** Berrea ?.????..
New Tork, J?n. ?.?Count Boni de
Castellarne, who waa divorced In a French
court by hi? wife, the form?? ??a??
Gould, now Prlncek? Helle de Sagan.
Duchea? de Talleyrand, ha? ?ppealed one?
more to Rome for an annulment of hl?
marriage, thl? time to the Roman Curia.
"The papal court to which he ha? ap
pealed this time,'* aald Father Joaeph H
McMahon, of thl? city, "haa not, to my
knowledge, been called upon to ?etti ?
case for three or four centurie?."
SENATOR HITS
COTTON PLEA
John Sharp Williams Lashes
Southerners Who Find Fault
with British Embargo.
SAYS U. S. CANNOT AFFORD
TO BULLY THE ENGLISH NOW
Declares Non-Intercourse with Allie?
Would Mean ?Death to Cotton
Industry Here.
Another stormy debate on foreign
affaire marked the proceedings of the
?Senate yesterday. Senator Hok** Smith,
of Georgia, started it when he attack
ed the British embargo.
Senator John Sharp Williams, of
Mississippi, was stirred to action by
Senator Smith's anxiety for the Inter
ests of the cotton producers. Senator
Williams said:
"Cotton 1? worth 12.33 cents a pound
*pot in the Memphis inarkrL If peac*
came tomorrow, cotton would not be
worth over 10 cents a pound. If th*
Senator from Georgia could have his
way and the measures which h** advo
cates were enacted they would result
ln nonintercourse with th*** allies, un
less the allies are going to stand still
like a lot of whipped curs while they
are engaged In a war for life and lib
erty and obey the ukase of Congress
with 90.000 |n the army behind it and
a fourth rate navy.
"It Is absurd to suppose that they
would be cowardly enough to stand,
bullying from a nation which can
not bully, because It has nothing to
bully with. To say to Great Britain
and h-v" allies that ve purpose put
ting an embargo *ro munition!* of ?-ar
contrary to our traditional polier art
lees they change their blockade and
sit down In a fight which they be
lieve to be for the liberty and inde
pendence of the world against a new
Roman Empire revamped and revar
nished, is absurd. What would follow.
If w? did? Commercial nor-Inter
course. Then what would become of
cotton? Cut off the British. French
and Italian markets, and their de
pendencies, and cotton would not be
worth 4 cents week after next.
Life Above Property.
"I dislike arguing a great Interna
tional question from the standpoint
of special interest?, though It be my
own interests. I do not think the
fact that I might or might not be
bankrupted by this war temporarily
la a sufficient reason for undertaking
to let German or English or French
or Russian or Italian soldiers kill
American boys summoned to the colora
"It Is about time you were recognizing
facts, and above all things I do not warn
to see Dixie put In the attitude of ?seem
ing to care Just as much about property
as about life, especially its own particu
lar property, which cotton la I do not
want to see them care more about that
than about women and children who go
down unknelled. unsung, unshriven and
unwarned to their graves in the sea. not
upon German soil, but upon the high
seas, the property of no government and
of no power, and upon unarmed merchant
vessels.
'IWf ul Baby' Jury
Unable To Agree
After Ten Hours' Deliberation
Jurymen Give Up F-amous
Breach of Promise Case.
New Tork, Jan. 30.?After ten hour?
of deliberation, the Juror? In the JK.Ouu
breach of promise action of Cora Maude
Clarke, against John Leon Martin,
broker, reported today they were unable
to aeree upon a verdict. Supreme Court
Justice Lehman discharged them.
Mr?. Clarke who divorced her husband.
alleged Martin promieed to marry her in
190*7. He admitted that he did promt?
to marry her In 1W?\ but claimed ?he
and he agreed, In ISO?, they would not
marry. Thereafter they t-entinued their
friendship until March. IMI when he
married Miss Maud Eddi?,
During the course of- the trUl, Mr?.
Clarke produced several letter? from
Martin, In which ?he wa? (-ailed his,
"boo'ful baby" and hi? "Darling Doll.''
When Martin'? coun??! summed up tlie
case, he referred to his client as a "poor
boob." who had belivi fairy tales
told to him by Mr?-. Cl?arke.
The Juror? stood seven to five in favor
of grantln? Mrs. Clarke dama?-?*;.
Woman Dies in Hotel Fire.
New York, Jan. SO?Th? We?t End
Hotel, at Lindenhur?t. L I., wa? wreck? d
by fire today The flame? spread to an
?adjoining house and Mr?. William Goer
Iken was burned to death.
GEN. VILLA CAPTURED,
NOW FACES EXECUTION.
SAY MEXICAN REPORTS
Revolutionary Leader and Band of Fifty Men
Taken By Ranch Foreman and Twenty
Cowboys, State Dispatches.
COL. MARQUEZ M'AKES CATCH
Carranza Officials in Chihuahua City Declare Vilja Was Mack
Prisoner Near San Geronimo?Unofficial Confirma
tions Are Numerous, Says D Paso.
?.?aerial I. Tlac ?A aaklaun?? ller?l?
El Paso, Jan. 20.?Gen. Francisco Villa, with a band of forty or
, fifty men, has been captured. He is being brought to Juarez and will
I be publicly executed at the race track, according to statements made by
ICarranzista officials. His followers were all executed immediately aftef
?their capture, says one report.
Advices received by Mexican Consul Andreas Garcia state that the
capture was made by Maximiliano Marquez, a foreman of the Hearst
ranch Babricora. and twenty cowboys, fellow employ?s.
Collector of Customs Z. L. Cobb wired tonight to the State Depart
ment that he has received news that seems to confirm tin? reported cap
ture of Villa near San Geronimo. Carranza authorities here up to 11
o'clock had received no official confirmation of \ ilia's carrture.
MONDELL RAPS
WILSON POLICY
Republican Representative
Calls It "Impertinent
Interference."
MEXICO HOLDS AMERICANS
IN CONTEMPT, HE CLAIMS
Object? to Any Agreement Not to
Avenge Outrages Without Con
sent of Other Nation*.
[/ .-A ????~. >
lan?. ti - :h? most ?eT?re rlrnunclatinr.?
of th? ?fcrxkaan policy of tb* Wilson ?d
mlnl?tr?I?oii that ha* bren heard In Coa
a-res* in tba paat three Tran ?raa ?m
bodlsd In a ?peecto delivered in th*
Hr,o*r ye?ierd*y by RepreatMitatlve
Frank W. Monde:), of Wyoming, a Re
publican Waadrr
Mr. Monden cbsrajcd that a? a result
or the '^^ulnc polio'' of th? l'ulte?]
State; rMMMMMV* *'th w"lcan affair?.
ArncrlcaiSfl ^Americana were held In
utter crfl I by Mexico and Meal
can?. ^^
Referring to President Wllaon ? change
of front toward Gen. Carranza. Mr. Mon
den declared that "the Spanish mind ti
untrained in the diplomatic gymnastic*
of thla administration, and unable to
follow the llmltles* and labyrlnthlan al
locutions through which the administra
tion demonstrates that what ts detested,
abhorred and adjured last summer, or
last week, la law and gospel today.'
?ll^llllll McddlinB
"By following, not a policy of 'watch
ful waiting.' but of mischievous meddling
and Impertinent interference, coupled
with base betrayal and calloused indif
ference to the welfare and safety of
American cltisens. the administration
has lost the respect and confidence and
earned the contempt of flrst one and
then another and Anally all of the peo
ple of Mexico.'' said Mr MondelL
"Now we hear strange and incredible
rumors that the administration has en
tered into agreement with the govern
ments of other nation, under which we
ftre? bound to take no atepa by overt
act to avenge the outran?? upon or pro
tect the lives of our citizens In Mexico,
whatever may happen or occur there, un
til we have received the assent and ap
proval of such nations.
"I cannot belli ve the administration
haa been disposed or has dared presumed
to enter Into so humiliating an arrange
ment or alliance, at least without con
sulting the co-ordinate treaty-making
branch of our government.
Mr. Mondell charged that, "watchful
waiting." ended when reports reached the
White House of uncomplimentary ref
erences Huerta had made to the President
of the I'nited States. Mr. Mondell added
"Smug and unctioua phrases and elabor
ate dissertation;? on the virtues of con
stitutional government were framed and
fafhloned in excuse of this lnaxcusable
Interference with the sovereigirty of an
independent people
Prohibits Wood Pi*lp Expert?.
Stockholm. Jr.n. ttt.?A decree prohibit
ing the exportation of ? ood pulp has
been promulgated. It goes into effect
tomorrow. This ia reeaid??* aa another
measure of reprisal agalr.st Kngland for
, the misure of Swedish ? .alia
? CM-rfliftlng <ll?p??rhe? her? arrive?? ?>?
to llir disposition made of th? pi-taoners.
? telegram from Albert 11 DavMaon. a
pmmintsit broker of ?hlhuahua Cit>.
?a*?*?:
"Carransa official? here drelar-?-ri re
ported i-apture of Vili? near flan Qortm?
lino sbsolutety confirm? d Th?? aay Tilla
will be brought ?live to Chihuahua Mia
band of nfty men es*v-uted this ?fter-nooo
Imm?diat??!y after oapture."
A telegram recelTisd at 4 o'clock thia
afternoon by Gen. Gavlr?. romminder of
the Juares gan-leon. from Chihuahua,
leads: ^
Matte llrlaadler t?t*??-r?l.
"Gen Francisco Villa, the banalt. I? ?
priaaner He *? ?? captured thta af ter
no???*! ?t fian Geronimo by Col. If.
Marques. Gen Trevlno hn? mstr*?-?cted
Marque? to Urin? V*Ua ?a ? *-""nl-aa ?
omet- ? * *? '
roMul Gare??, after At-lanog that
Villa'? capture haA b****n rotiflnraed my
unufflclil but reliable advice?, aald that
Gen Jacinto Tre-rtnc? Immediately lira a?
Marque? brigadier genersl In the Car
ransa army for "hsvlns ended th? Meci
eran revolution "*
Marques first reported hi? captor?? to
Trertno. Ge?n. Gav-lra reared a dta
patch at 4:j? o'clock this afternoon aa
noun-irg that \"illa wa? a prisoner
Hacienda San Geronimo, where Villa ta
reported to heve hewn made prisoner. I?
* ?mail village on the boundary af th?
Hearst Rlbrieora ranch It ta near th?
railroad station of Fan Tonal, southeast
of Madera.
American cowboy? on Babrloora ranch
?aw the bandit ln the Tltrlnlty of San
Geronimo a few d?>? ago. He had about
1? men. a? nearly a? they could esti
mate.
One report sirs Marques was In ooro
mand of a force of twenty Amerlc-an
cowboy?. Villa was located In a trtanrrle
of the mountains. Marques approaetaart
from the southwest point of th? triangle
Sothern to Retire from S taje
New Tork. Jan J0.-E. H. Sothern will
retire from the stage at th? end of the
present season. With Mrs Sothern. who
wss Julia Marlowe, he will go to War
wick?hlr?. England, where they ?nil
make their permanent home. Their time.
?aid Mr. Sothern tonig-lit, will be marni
In study.
Steamship Potos? Floated.
London. Jan 20?The British ?teamahta
Potos?. 4871 tons, which w-ent aground on
cioodwtn*? Stand? yesterday, ?raa towed
off today.
YOU CAN
SAVE 5 DOLLARS
A year's subscription to the Sunday
I HERALD costs ?oo less than the
' subscription price of any other Sun
day morning paper.
A year's subscription to the Daily
HERALD costs $300 Jess than the
I price paid for any other tn orniti?,
.newspaper delivered at your door.
The Washington
Herald
Contains All the* News and M ore
Special Features Seven Days a Wee%
at Le??* Than Half Usual Cost
DAILY, lc-SUNDAY.lc
You can get a home delirery of
the Sunday HERALD every week lor
ONE CENT?or th. Daily and Sue
day every day
By Camer. 30c a Month.
SEND IN YOUR ORDER BELOW
Name .
Address.
