.'"Ml.U J'l.i I,, i I.J.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Unsettled, probably raUur to-day; cloudy
to-mortA!,
Highest temperature yenerifo', lowest, a 6.
Detailed weatner, mail aniisriassvosiUoa pe IS.
DWELLERS
Important finds in Southwest may link
strange race with prehistoric
times. See the atory
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 143.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, JL916. CopyrlfiM, 1916, by the Sim i'rliifOn; ami Pubtt,hln AstocMion.
tO CENTS.
MONTENEGRINS
REJECT PEACE;
AGAIN FIGHTING
Austria's Terms Iniicccpt
aIiIp. Soldiers Resume
War. Koine lleiJorts.
KIM. WITH ARMY,
IMJKIWKKS DEFEXCK
I-ioirc Clashes iu Several
Towns Follow the New
Hivak With TVutous.
trrnm (Virile Dcpateh lo The Scn.
IxinpoN. Jan. 2n. Information re
ceived from several sources linllcjtcs
tlmt tho repot t of Montenegro's surren
der mil. out from Vlcnim on Tuesday
premature. To the officlnl denial
Issued by the French Government have
keen added a statement from the Mon
ttnegro Consul-General hero and an
nnounrement In Home that Montenegro
Mi officially notllb-d the Italian Govern
rietit of tin resumption of fighting.
Th follow Ins despatch was received
from Home'
"Kteliting between Austria anil Mon-tr-nrgro
has been reuineil. Montenegro
ratified Italy officially of this fact to
dy. 'Muntcnegrn's derision has been com
municated to the Italian Foreign Office
by the Montenegrin Premier. The note
t to the effect that King Nicholas and
the Montenegrin Government have re-Jerti-d
all torus offered by Austria and
that tlghtlnc already has been resumed
along the wtole front.
Kill it With Army.
"K.ng Nicholas remains with Ills army
tn oigaiilzc the defences of the coun
Irv Tie Montenegrin legation In Pat Is to
made public the following official
'.jte inent :
,u.ire ' Mlnuchekovltch. I'rcinler
ml Foreign Minister of Montenegro,
rtied )esterdny ut llrlndlsl, .Italy.
mvomiMii) log UiK-en Mlletiu and the
I'i"ltio-ses en mute to France. He
trvgvaphs the Charge d' Affaires at
Parts that the King and Government
,h.ive energetically refused all or tbe
Aus Inn conditions and that Mome
nt irro Is continuing the ttruggle to the
b Iter end.
King Nicholas tenialns among Ills
trn' with his two sons, to reorganize
for final leslHtotice and to facilitate re
heat of Ills valkmt army If It Is ncc
raty He ixpresse the hope that the
A V- w.l! lend him efficacious help In
liif nation opt rations, us was done
lii Hi riu-e of Serbia.
.M Mlouchekovltch hopes that the
tugn phase his country Is traversing
u I now Montenegro's heroism. The
fn hi iiunlls the diplomatic coips
lti.iuiui, whence all will proceed
to I.Vcillf '
'In Keep nil Fighting.
r' John Itopcr Partington, Consul
Oineial fur Montenegro In Ixindon, also
n ,-lvcd ofllcl.il contlrnmtion of the fact
tl at Nicholas and his sons will remain
uh 'heir troops and will fight to thei
!! tjuecii Mllena and two of her
laughters, he is informed, have reached '
Hal) mi the way to France.
hi transmitting the report from the
Montenegrin I'remler, the Montenegrin
M iiMcr at Itome expressed regret at
- h.ii'idi criticism of King Nicholas
M'l" ring In the Italian press. Tie de
ii'iiinced iis utterly untrue the charge
that the King had entered Into a secret
iisrenm-iit with Austria two months
ro.
The main Montenegrin army Is be.
Iitvtd io be concentrated In the south
ar the Albanian border, toward which
ethr-
detachments were retiring when ,
tt armlstc e caused a cessation of hos
tllltlf Pier fighting between Austrian
t ooi s and the Inhabitants of towns In
Mono-pec o occupied by the Invaders Is
'I'll Ml in ib-patchf s from Athens. At
An a- . Tlekn, Ccttlnje and Danllogrnd
"ictiln.m conflicts have already taken
f'a-'e and efforts of the Autrlan to
Mt'b.lsh ci 11 administrations have
fa.k-il
Ulna at I'oduorllis.
following ofllclnl announcement
Jf nude by the Iench Foreign Office
tnja
"Tlie reported negotiation for pence .
between Montenegro and Austria have
four taken nlare. Kin? Nicholas Is i
t I'fKlsorltia with his troop. contlnu-
Ir.sr e.stance." '
"odcontra Is a small town twelve
rr Its ,.,u.t (,f CeltinJe. the Montenegrin
eiMm, vvl.li h Is now In the hands of
t it- Austrian I
The Dully ,N, s Athens con espondent
r mr's the M-celpt of a telegram from
Mfll .l.lir htnllllir llntf III. Aimtrlnns lltlil
i.Tinnns are ttylng to persuade the
' ti upported by the section oC the
p 'tn. 11,011 -t ill remaining In Serbia.
T i" " I k-Ihiih w ho disapprove of the
F' ,i Premier's policy," says the cor
f ,,; 'i' propose a plebiscite on the
i'j(tni. i s stated that the Aus
' 'an and Germans count gleatly on
he siicm-s of their efforts. The Serbian
I'sa ion , thens has no news on the
''iianon i declare that Serbia will
I'ani i, ne ,lle,"
MONTENEGRINS ANGRY
lle.enieii vcc Conillllon That All
1 1 1 n rm , Sns Paris Iteport.
P'fial rnblr Unpaid, to Till Ru
'' Jan. 20 A Scutari despatch
f e eit tiv the 7'eintl.. tlirom-h ftenevii.
14 -
11 w
(1 :.
Lit the rupture In the negotiations
untrlii and Montenegro whs
' t.e ui.iccejit.ilde conditions that
a wished to Impose on Montenegro,
i ids thin King Nicholas, the royal
and the diplomatists accredited
1 i. have embarked from San Glo-
li Mediia for Italy,
e 'cmpA Infers that the rupture was
Hi" humiliating terms on which
'f nps were required to lay down
aim These included the literal
I
fa
ir 1
'!
t,
III!
tl
' d. r nf weapons In groups by all
.lib to liear arms, even the very
o-eri The women, although they had
Uken part In the actual fighting, were
Continued on Flth Pag:
Bomb Carrier Is Seized
Near Municipal Building
Fear of Blow at City Struc
ture Keeps Detectives
Watch iu r.
LOITERER WITH
EXPLOSIVE IX BAG
Companion Arrested Two
Men Followed All Day
on Hint of Plot.
A Isimb plot, apparently directed
agalntt tlie Municipal llulldlmr, was frus
tinted early esterday evening when the
IKilice arrested two men, members of a
gang of Italians that the detectives of
the "bomb" s'Uad have been shadowing
for the past thioe months. The arrest
followed a warning received yntcrday
afternoon by acting Captain Tunney of
the squad that the men would at oncu
try to destroy one of the city's sky
sctaptrs. For more than an hour Ciipt. Tunney,
with S-erst. Ilarnlti! and other detictlves.
watched one of the Mispcetcd men as ho
walked furtively nliout the Municipal
Itulldlng. carrj'ltiK cheap canvas suit
cae in which was hidden a powerful
bomb. The man loitered In the arcades
and nooks of tlx? building and appeared
to be seeking a spot In which to leae
tlm bomb. They walled In the hop
that lie would place tins explosive and
arrested him only when it si-emed that
he had changed Ills Intentions
and
started toward the New York
end of
hen there was 1
1 1 rook 1 vii Itridge. Then
danger that ho .would elud them in
the crowd they selied him.
A IMrkiinrkrt. Sny the I'ollre.
This prisoner said that he was Mlchele
(Jraslano, 3'.'. and that he came to this
country from Italy seven )ears ago.
He said that he lived at the llinton
Hotel, Hester street. The police say,
however, that lie did not live nt the Bos
eon Hotel. According to Capt. Tunney
i the man has a police record as n pick
I pocket.
1 In the suit case was a bomb, alxiut
four Inches long and of the same diam
eter, made of a metal cylinder flattened
, on two sides. It was wrapped with
heavy paper and wound about with
cord. This was roveied with tar and
glue that was still moist and sticky.
From the top of the bomb extended a
fuse five Inches long, which protruded
, through a hole In the side of the liag.
i An overcoat and several newspapers In
Kngllsh and Italian were stuffed Into the
bag to keep the ltonib In place ami the I
fuse from slipping from the hole. I
Detectives began to watch the two
-
COLUMBIA TELEPHONE
GIRLS GO ON A STRIKE
rnivcrMty Is Isolated for
Many Honrs While Digni
fied Professors Fiune.
Columbia Fnlvemlty had a taste ;n
terday of how the city would have felt
one day last fall If the suffragettes had
carried out their threat to call a strike
... n .nmii letenbone workers. For
.i,,. ..-aw ovnetlv what happened tlie
... .... . . .
two operators at tbe switchboard P" "
on their hats and coats Jut when the: 0lly ntvl ,lri,f,, ac(unly ),
morning rush on the wires began, anJ Un tralnli.g at oni-, the other drafts
for several hours "Mornlngslde 14n0' J following on succeeding days. Tills .
,ii.t tl tme been stricken from i order lo lelleve congestion ni the re.
the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company s service.
I Professors, staid and dignified, fumed
and muttered nuotuiions ironi
from the
classics while they Jiggled the hooks of
their desk phones In a vain attatrpt to
get 'in answer from oentrnt. The uo
little' signal lights on the extenslorf plugs
of the switchboard bllnkul merrily and
the buxkers on the two dozen trunk lines
hummed angrily. There was no such
hi., !lM setting thiough a call to or
i,.li,n,hlii.
There were a number of students who
thought they knew how to, operate a
switchyard, and sonic of them tr e 1 It.
Hut they gave up In despair when the)
, "led to straighten out the tangle of
some one calling some ""' """
tuin was trying lo set some other num
L t' was not until after luncheon
,l0U'r ,iat two operators arrived from the
... w.. .,mnrmv. after some one had
n,,,i,i m run outside to a pay station
.lM( Krt on a telephone that was really
working. Kven then the turmoil Inide'l
for some time, and late last night the
service had not yet composed itseir.
tl-l... tlie two irill (lUit Was a hi) S-
,ely. They admitted having loiisuiien
Ice ml tv authorities before they
left
BRITISH SEIZE TWO TOURISTS.
i,,, h'ronclocn Coniile Taken Hit the
'.ncapa Klnaston.
1 Two passengers who sailed hence by
,i. niieri Fiult steamhlli Zacapa for
the Caribbean on Janu iry E, leglster-1 were made by Walter Hume Iiong, Preiil
Ing as Mr. and Mrs. M. Hermann of i dent of the Ixx-al novernment Hoard.
San Francisco, were taken from the I and A, Honar Uw, Secretary of Stale
liner nt Kingston, Jamaica, by the Hrlt- for the Colonies. Mr, Ixing said he desired
t Ish authorities, according to officers and . to remove the Impression that under
passenger of tho steamship Almlninte, (lie compulsion bill the Government was
In yesterday from the West Indies. 'creating n monstrous military machine
The Almlrante and tho Zacapa were that would grab at every man romlm?
1 In Colon on the samo day and that Is 1 within Its scope.
I how the Almlrante heard the report. Mr. MW .pressed the grateful thanks
lit Is said the couple were taken to tlie , of himself and Mr. I-ong for the re
dctentlon camp outside of Kingston, strnlnt tthbwn by nil sections of the
I A despatch from San Francisco says House during tlie difficult committee
1 a Mr. and Mrs. M. Herman were In 8tage.
charge of the Luxemuurg exnimi ni ine
Panama-racuio r.xposiuon, mr im
there for Panama via New York last
month.
LESLIE TWEEDIE KILLED.
soldier Son nf Mrs, Alee i'vvredle
Dies Flahllnir In Frniu-e,
Special CaMt Vtipaleh lo T.IK Si's,
1ondon, Jan. 20, Leslie Tweedle,
son of Mis. Aleo Twcedle, the author,
has heen killed In France, He nai a
Lleutennt In the artillery.
BUILDINGS MENACED
BY BOMB PLANTERS
Some structures here that hae
been menaced by bomb planters are :
HI. Patrick's Cathedral On Oc
tober 13, 1914, a bomb exploded In
the pews, wrecking the flooring.
Hectory of St. Alphnnsus's Church
On October 13 a bomb exploded In
front of the building.
Ilronx County Court House On
November 1 1 a bomb wrecked a door.
Ilronx Municipal Itulldlng On May
I, 1915. a bomb exploded Inside of
the building, wrecking the east wall
and the celling.
Dozens of buildings have been
damaged by bottfca during the last
three years. Arthur Caron and
three others were killed when a
bomb which Caron was making ex
ploded on the top floor of 1626 LaA
Ington avenue on July S, 1914.
men early In the day after Capt. Tunney
received the Information that they
planned to place a bomb under a build-
Incr Tim aAlnrtlli'.a f.tllfiwMiil rTpimlaim '
.. . . ... .-..!vo iuiiu".. v. -'.. ...
and his companion, Ionardo de Vlilo.
3T, of 44 Kldrldge street, to Molt street1
shortly after noon. loiter the two men i
went to De Vlilo's home. After a while
Oraslano came out carrying the suit cae
with the bomb, lie went to the Munici
pal llur.dln.
Cnnt neloiKjeil to lie Vlslo.
te Vlilo's arrest followed that of Oru
Ma mi. The overcoat In the suit case was
Identified by De Vlzlo's wife as belong
ing to him. Iu Ie Vlzlo's Hat the de
tectives found paper like that wrapped
about tbe bomb and glue and cord sim
ilar to that ued In making the Infernal
machine.
The police bifiieve that the two men
belong to the band that tried to blow up
Police Headquarters on the night of last
July
According to Detective Santello. who
has been detailed to watch the men for
the past three moiuhs. Oraslano has at
tended eeral meetltigH of the llrescl
gtoup on 101th street, which Ik suspected
of having been Implicated' In the Cathe
dial bomb plot. Craskino has also been
seen frc'iucntly loitering about the meet
ing place of a group of auarchisis on
i ui i) .pminu siirci. .iiiuuuKii lie hi ,
art'im? urn inn iiuunu hii ui me men
lllgs. The Municipal Kulldlng bus been
threatened several times. Th police
fay that anarchists consider It an ideal
place for their operations. Owing lo
the many a I cades there are many places
for the kecretlng of a bomb. These
same arcade have given rise to the fear
that a sutllclently strong explosive mkfht ,
blow- up the entire underpinning of the,
building and cause the skyscraper to
collapse.
Capt. Tunney waa not able to get Into
communication with Inspector Owen
Fitan of the llureau of Combustibles.
For that reason it whs decided In keep
the bomb up nt Headnusrter until this
morning, when It will be examined.
-
RRITA1N PlAIIiS DERBY
RECRUITS TO COLORS
1 III). 000 I'lllliai'l'iPtl Men, 1!) tO
'22, Inelnded Compulsion
Rill in Final Stage.
I.0XP0N, ifan. 20. In accoidance with
the proclamation of December 13, group
2, 3, 4 and 5 of the recruits who en
listed under Iord Derl's plan were
calb-d to the colors to-day. These
groups Include the unmarried mn Is:
iweeu i.. ana ycare or age. una are
. . m .
w..an.l tn ...1,1 innAlfl . ,U.
I rrultlng offices and to minimize Incon-
penience ior me men. ah recruits nave
iK.,n warned of the necessity of repott-
ing iinmcuinieiy. Any one summoned
i who falls to ajipear will Is- t tented ns a
deserter.
suggestion innde by William O.
Anderson of the Labor patty that the
military -ervlce bill be followed b
' one for the consct Iptlon of all surplus
Wealth and landed estates met with a
chilly icceptlon In the Home of Com-
mons.
Premier Asfiulth declined to ipen tlie
way at all to the Introduction of such
a measure, reminding Mr. Anderson that
steps had already Iwen taken In the dl
tectlon of Inking over surplus wenltli
In the Income tax, the super tax and
the excess pioflts tax.
"I need lutdly say," he added, "that
It may be necessary to Impose further
burdens of till character. Meanwhile I
ram,0t anticipate measures which mav
I j,p proposed In the future,"
The compulsory military service hill
waM paused through the committee of
,M(, wj10e 0f u,e House of Commons nt
' . . .,-nlnpl. tn.nlc-ht Aenr.ll ,n nn.un
. meIllary procedure the bill now goe to
,. no,.,. In the reonrt .in.. n...i .i,-
comes up for the third and final reading. , willingness to give Ills support to Sen
John Dillon said he had never seen a utor Cummins If ho were nominated,
bill which might have led to passionate 1 Some of the recent visitor to Oyster
and heated debate conducted through the I I'-1)' have given out Information that
House with greater skill. Philip Snow- Senator Cummins had been transfeired
den. Socialist member from Rlackburn, to 111,1 "f candidates who would re
nn m.ivineiii of the hill nni.i .i..,iin. eelve Col. Roosevelt a support If noml-
tribute to the Ministry.
The closing speeches of the dlsciisslmi
BEER CAUSES BOW LEGS.
While tho movement contemplate ro- nuniner ui nn oi in sun isoiiiieu.
And HnlnaiiM Helps, I. WarnlnK of i opeiatlon for legislative purpose its southern California to-day began repair
! ciij .- , I .i,i.f nlm unnarentlv Is lo liitliienee tf IliK the damage done by the six day
PlTTSiiuiin, Jan. 20. Ilologna sausage
and beer cause children to become bow
legged, according to the flouth Side Child
Welfaie Association, which la waging
a light for the betterment of children.
Hctween twenty. five and thirty minis
ters have ngrred to advise their congre
gutloDs from the pulpit against feeding
children these and other heavy foods.
CO. P. MOVES TO
NAME PROGRESSIVE
Thirty Repiililimiis in Con
press Unite to Prevent
Choice of Hcne.tionury.
PLANS MADE AT DINXEHS
Agreements Itenched by Which
Strength Will Be Solid in
Convention.
Washington, Jan. 20. A formidable
' movement has been organized within
the Republican party tn prevent the
i nomination of a so-called reactionary
j for the Presidency. Thirty Itepubll
cans In Congress have ijuletly Joined
In this movement to Innure what they
resnrd ns a progressive nominee and a
progressive platform nt Chicago.
I The plan has progressed so far that
one formal dinner has been held within
a few da)s, at which eleven Senators
were present or were represented by
-1 t.i.. ... .- If a.ntltl 1 11 M I
iirUAlI.'?. I n K U .115 IIIOIIJ il I
nepresentutlves from the
Hives from trie nous
ltous
tended. Sceral Informal
conferences
dinner will
have been held. Another
bo held Saturday at the Capitol Park Mr. Mai-donald, who Is a member of l
Hotel, nt which It Is expected there the firm of II. II. Thomas & Co., brokers, '
will be several recruits. I of "1 H roadway, and Mr. Kabln, who Is
The facts came out to-day nt the 1 president of tho.Ouaranty Trust Com
Capitol and the Senators and ltcpre- j pany, acted also for James Stlllman and
Mutative Interested In the movement Frunk U Crocker, their associates In
talked freely of their plans and nmbl- I the formation of the new club.
ttons
The eleven Senators from the He
publican side who have Joined the Pro
gressive Republican alliance are Itorah
of Idaho. Cummins and Kenyon of
Iowh, Clapp of Minnesota, tlronna of
Norfli Dakota, Sterling of South Da
kota. La Follette of Wisconsin. Norrls
of Nebraska, Polndexter and Jones of
Washington and Works of California.
Already the progressives in the tie
publican party have reached nn agree
ment that nt more than one progres
sive candidate for tin Kepubllcan nomi
nation for President shall go before the
voters In any primary State.
To Prevent Division.
in mis way me progressive lepuo.i-
cans expect to prevent a division of ,
their strength that might permit the
choice of n delegation that would vote
reactionary." This'
. , ,, LJ..I
SfTK?Lu,"."Il!;dS.?. :.hr iLtit: 1
ator Cummins and Senator 1-a Follette
with respect to North Dakota, but It
was said to-day that It would ajiply
to other primary States.
Now that Senator la Follettc's candi
dacy has been formally launched In his
own Stat' his followers are looking
f to North Dakota, which he
caTtlti over THft and Itoosevelt iu the
camnalgn for delegates In 1912. and
where he Is still held to be popular. Sen
ator Cummlns's friends have been active
In the State and expect to carry It. Hut
i. ha heen agreed that both shall not
...i. .v.. .i.t..nn..
n na nm heen determined et which
wm rrirc from the light, lnit one of
them will, nrobablv with the understand-
ing that If the other falls to lund the,
nomination or to show formidable ,
iclwl"?'. the .lVVgalesesha!i be'besT.med
on the candidate, who gave way Iu the
primaries.
The men In Congress who have en
listed In the cooperative movement for
progressive legislation, a progressive
candidate and u progressive platform
have not cotiulted the regular ltepub.
llcans or Invited them Into the council
Ka'.iima thpl felt thev were not 111 SVtll I
! pathy with the plan. At the same time
the men In the movejneiu are very in-
sWent that It lias no ulterior purpose
and Is not Insurrectionary. They all
claim to be Hepubllcan and desirous
only of "putting the Republican house
tn order."
C'ainmtns Chief neneflelnrj.
On the surface Senator CummliiH ap
pears to be the chief beneficiary among
the Presidential aspirants. Senator
' IMJIOI1 ie
Itorah is not an avo-.ved candidate.
Selallir Ul Follette Is expecteil to have
a group of delegates In. the convention,
but will have a serious llglit iu his own
.State for the delegation.
If Senator Cummins should fall to de
velop formidable strength and his fol
lowing should be dissolved lifter the first
few ballots the ues wouiu uniiouiiitiiiy
i )e divided among several candtdates.
Senator Ilorah would piobably control
i most of them tor nunseir or me candi
date he tnigiu lavor.
I'ndoulitedly Justice Hughes could
command the votes of most of the pro
gressive If hi name Is voted for.
Senator llurtou will have a following
In ea h of the Slates icproscnted In tlie
movement He Is "aid to Ih' especially
sttong In Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa
and Nebraska, .
A story has been atloal In Washington
for several weeks that there whs xiine.
thing iikln to a working agreement or
UUUerSlUllUIIIH urmcvil v ltifu.--v.l-l,
and Senator Cummins. It has even ts-eu '
strongly hinted that Senator Cummins
had expiessed a willingness that Ills fol
lowers might support the Colonel arter
they bad discharged their duty lo him
In the convention If It seemed to them
to be the wisest course for promoting the
progressive cause.
Colonel .! He for Cummins,
It has been considered significant here ,
that l.ol. Itooseven only recemiy, ir
, some of his newspaper sponesinen cor-
reetlv Interpret his attitude, expressnl
1 nated at Chicago.
Rut the progressives vvno nave m-en
fUurlng in Hie confidences under the
new alliance said to-day that the co
operative movement did not conceal a
Roosevelt boom. They pointed out tlmt
Senator La Follette would hardly nub
scribe to such a plan If Roosevelt weicilals to-day. was brought by Carranza
to be the beneficiary of It in tlie end.
It was eald also that Senator Cummins
lias developed antl-ltooarvelt lendencles
at the conferences that have been held.
Uut the Colonel has many friends In
tho new movement. Senator Chum and
Senator Polndexter lire special friends,
of Ills, and Senator Ilorah ha been very
friendly to the coionci ami was his sup
Potter at the Chicago convention four
years .
.... nA
...ll.l. Il,e ...nirue ,it 11ei,nl,tl,.
L ,i', nroirresslvn riennbiicni, ,r,i i
lh. Western Stales nnd to control ll It,
the convention, accorillng lo (lie views
taken by politicians here.
rinrliur.t, N, C, centre of outdoor .ports.
Rett) Carolln. Holly Inn, llenksalre. Now
eptn. 4.
RICH MEN FORM CITY
nj TTr nvn iiaiti rutin1
CLUB FOR GOLF FANS
Tour Hny milltlinir Site lleforc
Milking l'p List of
Members.
AltCIIJTECTS AT WOKK
Tenlafive Plans Call for Struc
ture That Will Cost.
$120,000..
A social club, to be composed mainly
of golllng enthusiasts, Is lielng organ
ized In this city, and plans are being
drawn for Its home, a handsome building
to bo creeled In the uptown club dis
trict. OfTlccrH are yet to be selected and
the name Is still lo be decided upon.
To date only four men have Joined, but
the situ for tin; clubhouse has been
chosen. It Is at 30 and .1ft Cast Hlxty
second street.
lowers fk Sands, acting for the owner.
Mrs. T. Wyman porter, hac transferred
to Charles II. Macdoimld and Charles
It U..I.I.. .I. t .1.... T l.ll I ..... .. c.
It. kj.tflll, llMWUHII I '(.UN Illf IJ. l.illlimil n;
nt-ICo., tho KIMy-secoiid street property.
I
ni-;r;o.. tho Klxty-seeoml street property.
Two houses now standing on the site are ,
to be torn down at once.
Tentative Plans Itrann,
The ground purchased has n frontage
of 40 feet, with a depth of 112." feet
Cross A Cross, architects, have been con
sulted, and It is understood tlmt tenta
tive plans, calling for a building to cost
in the neighborhood of S12(,un, hav
been drawn. All the latest Innovation .
iu clubhouse architecture have been In
corporated, The members of the new club will be
selected from among men who are able ,
to discuss all the fine points of the most
Intricate golf problem without foozling.
I.'ich of the tour acting In the plan,
besides bring a member of many social
,.ru.u..l!,lt,...u ! u ,l.u t.urn,iu
(ml(oor po.t, , amnion , Kf. Thus,
Mr M.lc(onjlJi an Hcivc memUT of the
Garilen CUy f,olf nuh ,, otlle
. . . ...,,.,. ,-.,, r
.......i.... .." . i .i.-
IHIl I Ivrt. .til. .lllll IB l IIICIIIIST UI llir
and Tennis Club. Mr. Stlllman
belongs to the hleepy Hollow Country,
the Jekyl Island and the Hiding clubs
and the Automobile Club of America,
while giving play to his fondness, for
sailing as a member of the New York 1
and Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht clubs.
The ltaeiiuct and Tennis, Piping Hock
and Meadow Brook clubs have Mr.
Crocker at a memlier.
It Is reported that the Idea of forming
the club was discussed during the trip
of golffrs to White Sulphur Springs, W.
Va In September, when Mr. Macdonald
took a tralnload of friend to the open
ing of tho new Greenbrier, course.
Admit rarchaar of Property.
"So far we have not proceeded beyond
the point of after dinner talk," said Mr,
Mactloiiald last night. "The nrolect Is
as et too much In the air to justify,
me In saying much about II. Hut we have i
iMtigm me property ana win miiKc use
of it,
Mr. Crocker nnd Mr. Sabln both ad
mitted that architects had been con
sulted, tint said that no plans hae been
definitely ih elded upon.
"It wnlllil tint ho rtpht fn ttitv tlint
mmtterMhlli III the tiLC eltili trill hn Hi.,.
Ited to golf ila)ers, for I am Included
In the list, Mr. .sauln added, modestly.
; "Hut wo all have a pretty good under'
standing of the game and are enthusiasts.
We have outlined the project to CrosH it
Cross, the architects, and they are draw
ing plans. We do not contemplate the
Installation of Indoor links. It Is to be
a strictly social club and the
will le thoroughly modern. 1
any Idea how many member we shall
have. Plans have not yet progressed to
the point of discussing the limit to lie
llxid."
Mr. .Macdonald is one of the best
j known amateur golfers In the country
and was amateur champion of the 1'nlted
States In 1S95. lie has displayed great
proficiency a a golf course nrchltect.
He laid out the National links, near
Southampton, and the Piping Rock and
Sleepy Hollow Country club courses! as.
slsted In preparing the tln enbrler course.
anil Is now engaged In laying out the
new l.ldn eoui"e lit Long Reach, I,. I.
, Among Mr. Macdonald's guests on the
special trip to witness the Invitation
I tournament at the opening of the lireen
brier course on September 25 wcte. be
sides Mr. Sabln. John F. Harris. II. M.
Iliurlman. A. de Navarro, C w. Hum
mill, .11. R. Wlnthrop. D. II. Pomeioy,
II .1. WhlKliam, Martin W. Littleton. It.
T Howe, .loseph P. Knapp, R. II, Will
lam, fienrgp L. Scott, Malcolm Steven
i Mn "wilson k, Klnnear. Walter Watson.
Louis Livingston, J. A Stlllman, W.
lie L. Kountze. A. II. S. Post, W. II,
Sands, F. S. Wheeler. C, CI, Coinstock.
Jr., Joseph S. Clark, William II. stnuf
ller, C. T. Cowpeithwalte, Daniel rhaun
cey, W. D. Vanderfiool, Frederick H.
Tlioinas. Albert It. Fish, A II. Johnson
and C. S, Lee.
It Is expected that several of these
names will appear eventually on Hi
membeisblp lolls of the new dub.
JAPANESE TROOPS IN MEXICO?
Iteport iij rineil Force In In
Lower California,
Uis Amiki.ks, Jan, 20. It was rc
poiled bete to-night from Cnlexlcn that
he twee 1 1 200 and 30(1 armeil Japanese
soldiers ale enciiluped III the Siena Pel
Pinal Mountains, twenty miles south of
.lacumbii and the American bonier, in
Lower California.
Information about the piesence of the
soldiers, who are wearing the regulation
Japanese mi no uniform, uecoidlug In
repoit leceiveu ny immigration fill
representatives, who asert they passed
the camp several days ago.
CALIFORNIA FLOOD RECEDES.
Sixteen
Di-hiI, :i,niMi,ii(o
!,
J.IHMI llniiieles.
Los ANOKI.RS, Jan, 20. With sixteen
I persons known to have perished, prop.
erii iiism ,'j,('l-ciiiiik u.'i"v.,iuir. .lull 11
I -'.'...,'..,....... .n, .... . .
StOrlll W'hlrll SWel.t t
tarlo, Siindlmas mid Monrovia were the
'woist HIlffrrvlH.
San Diego and Pomona
leport propci t loses estimated at
tl.iiun.UOli. It is estimated that two
thousand ate homeless.
Passenger trnlnu -which have been
Mulled since Saturday began to arrive
here this evening.
Villa Reported Captured
' '
Near Scene
El Paso Hears From Two Sources That Bandit Was Sur
prised by Carranzistas and Is Being Taken to
Chihuahua for Execution.
BETRAYED TO PURSUERS ON LOOTING RAID
t'opyrlffht American Pre. Association.
Gen. Francisco Villa.
Ku Paso, Jn, 20. Reports have come
from two sources that Francisco Villa
has been made a prisoner In western
Chihuahua. The capture I said to have
been made by Oen. Cavaxos.
Andreas Oarcla, Carrarixa's Consul,
said he had the report unofficially both
from Juarex and Kl Paso. A local min
ing company nlso received u message
till evening saying the reports of Villa'
capture bod been brought to Chihuahua
city from Hacienda San tieronimo In
western t. liinuatiua.
This reisirt also said that Villa and
j,), followers were Is-lng taker, to Chi-
huahua city for execution. It came
from the same source that first reported
the massacre at Santa Ysabel, a source
regarded as entirely reliable by the
com pa n.
The American State Departing of
llcl.it . considered the assertion authorita
tive enough to tclein.iph a report of It to
Washington this afternoon.
Villa Is Mild to have been captured
not far from Santa Ysabel, where the
eighteen American" were recently
lubhouse slaughtered by bandits who formerly be
haveii't I h'K'(l lo Villa's forces and vyhete Villa
is Known lo nave oecn. n is io- n-um-reglon
In which he held sway as a l.indlt
leader prior to the days of the Mndeio
revolution when he became a Colonel In
Madero's army.
"We have not leen officially advised
of the reported capture," said Consul
llama, "but we are trying to ascertain
whether or not It Is true."
The Carranza Consul explained that
his continuation of the report was based
on -unofficial but reliable Information.
He telegraphed at once to Chihuahua
citv asking Immediate official Informa
tion from lien. Jacinto Tret Inn, the mil
itary chief of the northern Slates.
Want llxi-ciHlou In .liiares.
At tlie same time a message was pie
paied, tn be llled In the event nf formal
coiillrmallon. leipiestiug thai Villa be
sent to Juaiez to lie executed lit the inee
trnck. This message was written at the
otflre of lieu, tiabriel ilavlia, comman
dant at Juarez.
I'liofllcial but seemingly tellable .id
vlci form Chihuahua city s.i that
Villa, who had been operating with
nbnul Hid men mar Cludad tiuerriTO
searching for Ainerlciilis and looting,
was surprised at the Hacienda San
fieronlino, whore he had gone to seize
supplies for III men Men In tile
hnclenda revognlwil Villa and sent se
ciet couilcr to Gen Civuzos, who was
scouting around Cuslliuli iachlc fin
members of the baud of bandits who
had taken pail In the slaughter of
Americans at Santa Ysabel
Cnvnzos sent a part of hi command
In one dliecilon toward San licrnnimo
and with the reniaindei rushed to Hie
spot when- Villa happened lo be resting
fiom his campaign. Villa vins sui
rounded and overpoweted before he leal
Ized that Ills Identity had become known,
lion. Cnv'iizos, fearing an attempt at
rescue by a target folic which might
be near, sent appeals to Chllinithua foi
mole 1 1 oops. Without waiting lor ic
enforieuieiits, however, he stinted with
his prisoner toward Chihuahua
llxclleniell t In Clilhunliiin,
In Chihuahua tho leport enured Hie
Wildest CMllelllelll. (ill-lit clouds ir.it tl
ered In the streets waiting tor the ar
rival of the bandit leader mid excitedly
talking of the ciipliiie,
F,lghtei-n men wljo uto alleged to have
been a P-ul of the bandit band which
. executed tin- Americans last week and
who were pursued west of Chihuahua
are icported as having been executed 111
Chihuahua to-day by Cariana officials.
1 It Is stated officially by the Carranzistas
- that these men confessed that Villa was
near when the slaughter took place,
hut that lie was not actually pieriut.
that the) were
members of his band.
orders to kill all Ainericinie they nnd
In Mex co have been Issued to Ills men
..:, li.... i ,, .ir. ...i
It'g a mixed army of Zapatisins, Oaxaca
i.iImiik nnd former l-Vderals in the
Torreon count ry.
rjiespnlches from Torreon to-day sav
that Ararumedo told his men: "Amerl-
of Massacre
cans and Carranzistas are all alike.
Kill them all Americans more quickly
because they are foreign enemies."
There are fifty Americans Btlll In
Torreon who cannot get to the border
because of destroyed railroads. The
city Is surrounded by Vllllstas and Ar
gumedo's men. The garrison of Car
ranza soldiers In the city Is said to he
badly demoralized and ready to sur
render without giving battle.
NO CONFIRMATION HERE.
Mute Department Only Has
nr -
purl of Villa's Cup! ore.
Wahhinotov, Jan. 20. Confirmation
. ... I., .ti. .. ., l. . .
wa i.icnuiK ai ine ;-inic 1'rpanmeni io-
night of repotts from 1:1 Paso that Oen.
Francisco Villa had been captured by
Carranza soldiers In northern Mexico
and taken to chihuahua city for execu-
Hon.
Officials of the Department manifested
great Interest In the pies. leports. how
ever, stating that the capture of Villa
would not only give the strongest kind
of evidence of Carranza'. good fultli iu
M-eklng out those responsible for the
massacre of the Americans at Santa
Ysabe.l, but would probably mean a col
lapse of the guerrilla warfare now being
waged against tlie Carranza Government
In northern .Mexico.
Tlie last official reports showed Villa
was iu the territory named and this
led the Washington ofllclul to manifest
additional Interest In to-night's reports.
Accordingly on the suggestion of the
State Department the Department of
Justice is working on vague evidence of
a new revolutionary movement against
Carranza to be headed by Gen, Felix
Diaz, nephew of the late Portlrlo Diaz,
Hie former President of Mexico. Al
though the State Department admitted
knowledge of the rumor. It was not
Inclined to take them seriously. It
said that Diaz, who for a long time had
hl lieailquatteis Iu Havana, Cuba, I
now In New- Yolk, His name has been
tunnected, they said, with various plots,
none of which has ever materialized.
although oiuciais nave kept watch
mm. A .vear ago lie made an unuo i and fireman lie was taken to the lum-i
liZ: S.' r ' .....,. ".,,.. 1M0 R,e,
was associated for a lime with Huerta
in the uprising against former Presl-
dent i-ranclsco .Madero.
Although re,irt of the plot state that
It Is backed by the Catholic-
party In
Mexico and embraces In part
ti, n.M,l iicmwi.1 f.,r.u 1m, . ,.., I.n-n
' Mexico by way of Guatemala officials of
the Mate Department denied to. night
tli.it any iepresenation on the subject
had been made to Guatemala by the
Government.
"It seems Imvedlhle to believe that
any serious movement Is actually on
foot," said one official, "Inasmuch as
the men mi whom Diaz ha been no
ciisomd to rely principally are not In
tin cntjntiy to advise him, Gen. Ulan.
1 ipn-t Is iu Canada and Gen, Mindiegon
I vi-lllng his family In Spain, The
tn IK that Diaz Is seeking a loan of
; t lO.uoii.ooo In Now Orleans sound gro-
j trsiiue."
In Carranza c tvlcs here it stated
to-night that there Is no tu. i m thin-ports
of the plot tis far as Carr.iitz.Vs
fi lends know. In these quaitir It was
. staled that Pelix Diaz ha generally been
legarded a anv thing but dangeiou
wii; nvvnrT rivrirn v
,lhV hhVUljJ lA ULIi 'A Y
Coniblneil I'orces I npture Tonn
Cr.v Kill All Americans!"
Kl, Paso, Jan. 20. "Americans and ;
Caitnnzlstas look alike; kill them all!" '
This vva the niiler Issued by Gen.
HcnJ.imiii Alguniedo when he got to
Vclardt-na on hi inaii-h at the head of
the combined foice of Zapatista.", Diaz
Istas and Vllllsta Just previous to his
captuie of Gouii . Piilacio un Januaiy f,
according to Mexicans arilvlng fiom
To; i eon to-day Gen, Arguniedo plans
to' drive Cairanzu and all foielguers
f l mil Chihuahua State.
Gen. ('.utilities was Identified with the
advancing column ami t no move was
" , ; , , ' "' . , " '.'
possisrlon of that town, driving Amer
?', Smelllnif and Helming Company em-
i ployees iioithv.aril to lorieou. The
' forces inn not imger in uomcz Palaclo,
I
CoiHiMiird on rotirflt rant.
BDILDUPTRADE
DEFENCES TOO,
IS T. R.'S PLEA
Scores Professional Anti-
Trust Men in Quaker
City Speech.
UNIFOIttr LAWS F0H
IxNDUSTRIAL JUSTICE
Urgos business and War
Trcpa redness Through
Unity of Action.
T. If. ALSO WRTTKS
LETTEW ON DEFENCE
Urffes Compulsory' Military
Service Calls Continen
tal Plan Sham.
Theodoro Roosevelt by speech nd
letter yesterday propounded hl pre
paredness iKilicles to twi audlenc
one In Philadelphia and another la
Washington.
In Ills Quaker City Mieech ho urged
preparedness In business n. well as
war. Ho urged encouragement for bin
business and scored tho professional
anti-trust men.
He sold this could he, achieved only
through nn efficient national Govern
ment. In a letter to the Security League
In Washington th Colonel urged com
pulsory military service oh an anti
scorbutic tor tho hyphenated Amer
ican danger In this country.
Representative. Gillette warned 7on
gre.. that America's peril would bg1n
when the Kuropean war ends, th vic
tor with ttreat forces and material
coveting our accumulated wealth.
Gen. Weaver told the House Military
Committee that tho mounting of 1
Inch gun. would soon niako the coast
defences utrong enotig-h to protect Mew
York nnd San Frnnclsro.
A bitter debate went on In the Sen
ate, over our foreign policy. The Brit
1 lh embargo vvn. bitterly ntlncked. as
was Wilson's actions Iti dealing with
Britain nnd Germany'.
U..rnK. Il4nl1 .1.. Il..i..
I .3. ii... i I'.tiinin u'Mi iiii- nini-n
v-,.i ,ff,u, , ,,. ...
I ,N,mi1 Affairs l ommlttee that the navy
wker than tlmt of Germany, that
wo "r0l battle cruiser. nnd more
1 officers, He hopes for dlsarmimcnt
eventually, but think. the United
States should not tie caught napping.
T. R. GETS OVATION
IN PHILADELPHIA
'Cnnie llai-U, Teddy," Cries of
Crowd That Greets Him.
I'lllI.APF.I.rillA. Jan 20 Col. Rnr,
velt addressed a huge throng to-nlchi
nt n mass meeting held by the Nations,'
Conference on Immigration and Anierl
canlratlon When the Colonel appeared
on the pint fm tn at tlm Opera lloue. the
cheering lasted several minutes. At the
conclusion the cheering was unbroken
for thirty seconds.
Col, Roosevelt nnlved at ltio.nl Street
Station nt 4 o'clock. Crowds nwalleil
him, cheering, ir)lng "Come bark, Ted
dy!" "Our next President!" "Oh, you
1 11 C," nnd other phrn-e which brought
a smile to the ev-Presldent's face.
When Roosevelt had shaken nanri
on vvlth the Pullman imiductor, the cnglniu
I'' ue hiiiaie. w nose guest itociseveit wa
be until be leaves the city to-day.
Awaiting him there wete Miss Aglir
1V1'',"?r', V . l-lllllK',al1' moi
tested there until fi.lS, when lie left
"I illoninn iwuiiir im utc i iiuaiiri
phla Club, where he was Mr. Robins'
guest at dinner Among those presen
were Rlchnid M. Cailwabider, Chailc
iCustls Hariisnti, William Potter, Rnher
I.. Montgomery. Owen Wlster. Chatllo
lYaiunll, John Hampton Harnes, Mnjo
John S, Groom, C Willing Hare, Join
W. Geary. IMward F. Heale, Kdword 14
Smith. Alba It Johnson, Charles V,. In-
' gersoll, Arthur 11. It New bold, C. Stuart
Patterson, George H McFaddeti, Raiard
! Ileuty, S. Pembertnit Hutchinson and I..
Waller Clark.
Di White, who was 111 at the Unlvn-
, sit) Hospital, had been taken in liv
home, but was unable tn attend the din
net, President Wllioii, in a telegram t
Judge Clarence N Goodwin of the HI
nols Appellate Court, who was appnlnte-l
chairman of committee to formulate
I plans for a national council to facilitate
I the work of Amerli-ariliratlou of Imm
grants, told of hi sympathy vvlth the oh
SpH "f ,"'lf'm",, lls i""s-
I ness to receive represent Hive of tlie
I committee to-moriow. The cominitti-e
1 however, decided to postpone Its visit to
the President until us plan ii.nl ueni
more definite)) fotinulated
Resolutions were adopted sujestlng
that nattiinlizatlon com Is be held at
night, so that worklnginen would not
lose n day's eniplo) ment. and calling on
the Federal bin can of education to pre
pare and publish In as many 'aiiKiiagei
as possible a pamphlet containing nec
essary Information icgarding the gov
ernment of the country, to be uei a i
standard In the imtniction of aliens.
The Colonel's Speech.
Ill Ills speei'a at the Opcui l!nue Col
Roosevelt said ii p.itl
"National pieparedncs? . lilmi for
peaen or war c,i:i in alevcd oi.l, d
' the basis of unl'
, sti uniciitalny of
ai-d , iioluIi .o- i
1 , 'II. e ' 'i.il -i
governmental s.sic Ml tin 'or .
mak4forllidustrial.il n..li:.i, , . ,,
nesj must be iindei the .e-jirrt' .
1
J
