That Country Home
Go to It via The T-D Want Ad
Page, For Sale or to Let
66th YEAR
VOI.UMIO H?l
M! Miir.it 20
To Buy or Sell
Remember the Easiest Way,T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
PRICE, 2 CENTS
VILLA CAPTURED; !
TO BE EXECUTED !
ON JUAREZ TRACK;
Reliable, but Unofficial, In- j
formation Tells of Tak- j
ing of Bandit.
NUMBER WHO TOOK PART
IN MASSACRE ALSO CAUGHT
El Paso Gets Message That
These Men Are on Way to Chi
huahua to Be Put to Death. !
OUTLAWS FOUNT) IX MOUNTAIN*!
Malcontents, Operating Near Torre
on, Declare All Americans Are
to lie Killed.
i.Special to The Tl mcs-Dispatch. ] ]
KI? PASO, January 20.?General Fran-;
cIbco Villa ha? boon captured, according !
>o reporVB believed 'o lie authentic.
Advices received by Mexican Consul |
Garcia state that the capture was mad e j
by Maxlano Marques:, a foreman of the'
Hearst ranch, Uahrlcora, and twenty
cowboys, fellow employees. Marquez
recently also captured General Jose
Rodriguez, one of Villa's generals.
A band of forty or fifty men are said,
to have been taken with Villa. Con-'
dieting dispatches1 have arrived as to;
tho disposition made of the prisoners.
A telegram from Albert If. Davison, a
prominent broker at Chihuahua City,
says:
'Carranza officials declared reported'
capture of Villa near San GeronimoJ
absolutely confirmed. They say V'.Ilr
will he brought alive to <"hlhuahua. Ills;
band of fifty men executed this after
noon immediately aftci rapture."
A personal l?'l"?ram received at I
o'clock tills afternoon by General (Jar-!
? In, commander of ?he Juarez garrison.'
from Chihuahua, reads
"General Francisco Villa. tl.e bardit.j
I"* a prisoner 11 ?? was captured this'
afternoon at San Geronlmo by Colonel!
Marquez General Trevino liav in
strutted Marquez to bring Villa to ("hi-!
huahiia at oiwe."
A message announcing \*illa's cap-!
Mire also hiM been re.-ived at the of-'
fi< e of the Amcrii-.il. Smidting and F'.eJ
fining Cotnpanj
Messages from t'hihuahua City, cnn.
firming reports "f tjio capture of Villa,
?fated tiiat a n imlier of nandits who
purtt<;lpated in the Santa Ysabel nas
Saere. were -ils.. .-aptured and are being
brought to t'hihuahua City for execu
tion !
Ml l> III).II |( \ \k
TO \ I I.I, \'s i \ I'TOIt 1
f.otisui Garcia, after declaring that'
Villa's enptut" liad been confirmed t.v
unofliclnl hut reliable advices, said that)
General Jacinto Trevino immediately
made Marquez brigadier general In the
Carranza artny "for having ended the)
Mex Iran revolution."
? arranza Consul Gar<-ia explained
that Ills continuation of the report of
tli" rapture of Villa w ,s base,) ..ti >in
oillcial, but reliable information. lie
t. 'eirmphert at on-e t.. < 'hihi;ahua r-;tv
asking Immediate official information
from General Jacinto Trevino, the mili
tary i hief of the northern states
At th.- same time. ., message was
prepared to he filed, in the event of
formal confirmation, requiting- that
Villa he popt to Juarez to he rvcmtr,)
at th* race tra-'k. This message was
written at the office of General Gabriel
Gavlra, commandant at Juarez, who
said h? had reeoived nothing r.fn.Mai
concerning the capture ?f the outlaw
chieftain.
Marquez reported his capture first to
General Trevino. commanding the
northern forres General Garcia, com
manding the Juarez garrison, received
a dispatch at 4:f.n o'clock this after
noon announcing that Villa was a
prison rr.
Colonel Garcia gave out the following
.statement this evenine:
I p until !> ]'. M, nothing has been
learned regarding the capture of
Bandit Leader Francisco Villa. Ad
vices from Chihuahua declared he was
captured by Colonel Marquez."
Hactendla Rj? Inrnniinn, where Villa
was reporte.;' to have been made a
prisoner. Is a small village on the bor
der of tho Hearst Uahrlcora Ranch.
American cowboys on Kahricora
Ranch saw tho bandit in the vicinity
of San Geronlino a few days ago. He
had about \]0 men, as nearly as they
could estl' .te.
MAUIHliZ i>X n.OSR
"WATCH l-'Olt n\\DlT
I he fotv positively dependable de
tails of the Incident at hand Indicate
that Marquez has been keeping a closo
watch for the appearance of Villa and
his band. Yesterday ho learned that
the bandit with part of his force was
on his way to the Santa Anna Hacienda,
ono of the Hearst properties, with the
object o." seizing food, cattle and other
supplies.
One report says Marquez was In com
mand of a force of twenty American
,e,o\vl?".vs. Villa was located in a
in the mountains. Marquez
.cd from the southwest point
( 'Jangle.
>1 Jose Alexandre was closing
1 i I he northwest. From the
H -UJt General Cavazos advanced.
, i arc hints that Villa's force ran
0 ammunition. Among the prisou
01 ken with Villa, according to a
di ;h from Chihuahua City. Is Pablo
l.?i one of the bandit leaders in
ili^ .t charge of the Santa Vsahcl
? massacre.
This same message gives the number
of prisoners taken with Villa as six
teen, all of whom were shot imme
diately.
.MAi.conti:ntm tiiiikatiox
TO K llil, AMKRICi.VS
IDT, PASO. TEXAS. January 20.?
I About 4,000 malcontents nre operating
near Torreon. shouting for Felix Diaz
and declaring Carranza adherents and
?^ontlnucd on Second Page.)
\
ru.Csrisro viua. :
RE ENFORCED RUSSISNS :
ATTRGKING DIMS
Violent Offensive, of Sanguinary
Character, in Progress Along
Bessarabian Frontier.
II A X D-TO-II A X I) KXCOUXTKRS
Petrograd Report Tells of Itaid on
Rliick Sea in Wliieh C'/.ur's Torpe
do Boats Destroy t(l!i Sailing
Vessels.
Violent attack? by the Russians with !
t-trotisly rp-^nforcci! armies an; bcinK j
launched against Mi.- Austro-Huncarlan j
forces alone tlx* Bessarabian frontier. 1
That the trend of the offensive here j
is of ft sanguinary rliararif-r i.s indl
lateil by the .A lift r<i-H untra rian official
r<port, which nays tliat between
Toporoutz and Boyan the Russians at |
several plac<s surreodei! in entering
the trench?;s of the Teutons, ami en- j
page'l the defenders In hand-to-hand i
encounters
To The northeast of Czernowitz tho
Russians claim t<> have captured an j
Austrian soot or and to have repulsed j
five desperate counterattacks.
The Russian otllcial communication
I tolls of a r.ii?l on the Black Sea by
Russian torpedo-boats. 1 It sailing vep- |
| sols being destroyed along the Ana
i iolian coast.
1 In the Caucasus, the Turks, accord
ing to Petrograd. were driven from
their position* In the center ?>f the long
fror.* -uffer I in.- ln-nvy looses.
Itltl'l lsll K>SA \ VITACU TO
\oitrn ok i ui:i.i\r.mi:N
ii addition tn i he usual artillery and j
mining operations on the western lino |
iit France and Belgium. the British have
essayed an Infantry attack against the j
i Germans ;o the north of Frelinghien.
, Berlin reports that the attack was
i put down.
Announcement made in the British
I House of fnniinons that tho British
i column coming up the Tigris Valley to
'the relief of Kut-el-Anuira in in close
| touch with the Turks In I'.-sin, seven
i nules from Kut-cl-Atnara. This region
' doubtless soon will be 'he jJi-cne of a
i hig battle l'(wees: tho relief column
; anil the British hemnn-d in at Kut-el
I Amnra jind the Ottoman forces,
i Although it has been otllcially an
j nounced that fighting had neen resumert
i between the Austrtans and Monte
negrins. no news concerning the. details
of the new operations has coin?
through. King Nicholas Is declared to
be at Podgoritza with his troops.
Tho military service bill has passed
through the committee of the House of
Commons, after having been so
i amended as to meet with the approval
! of some of those originally opposed
I to it.
! Emperor William ban returned to
! Germany, after a visit to the Balkans.
I The British House of Commons next
Wednesday will begin dir.cussion of the
question of a blockade of Germany by
tho British fleet.
? MILITARY SKnVICIC Hit.I.
THROl'VH (OMMITIMK
LONDON. January 20.?The military
service bill passed through the com
mittee of tho Ilouso of Commons at
11 o'clock to-night, amid loud cheers.
nninsii.ix ri.osr. touch
WITlf TI'lllilSH POSITION
.LONDON, Januarv 20.?General Ayl
mer's force of British troops was yes
| terday in close touch with the Turkish
position at Essln, and consequently was
seven miles front Kut-el-Amara. In
Mesopotamia, where a British force has
boen surrounded by tho Turks.
M ONTKN RGIt O NOTtFIKS
KKiUTIXC ts nr.MMKIJ
ROME, January 20 (via London).?
Fighting between Austrian and Monte
negro has been resumed. Montenegro
notified Italy otllcially of this fact to
day.
j ll/rniATUM I'HKSICNTEI)
TO (.1IK10K tiOVEIlMIKXT
j LONDON, January 20.?A dispatch to
j the Star from S-'.oli:*. says:
"France and Great Britain have pre
sented an ultimatum to tho Greek gov
ernment requiring the dismissal of the
diplomatic, representatives and consuls
of the central powers.
"It is state I ti nt the ofllcials af
fected are moving their archives to
Macedonia."
FOUR OHR.IT AllMIKS
FIGHTING AND WINNING
LONDON, January 20.?From Dvinsk,
southeast of Riga, to the center of
Persia four gr-mt Russian armies are
i fighting?and winning, recording to
tho Russian reports.
On the Dvlna they have driven back
a German column; In Bessarabia they
have captuted an Austrian position: In
the Caucasus they have smashed the
Turks, and in Persia they have de
feated a rebel force.
Tells Why Commissioner of I
Moral Welfare Should Be
Chosen by Legislature.
EX-GOVERNOR MANN SPEAKS
Paper Prepared by Commissioner
Blue, of West Virginia. Is
Read by Dr. Cannon.
asking for the election hy t (.?<- ?
'Wieral Assembly of a State Com- j
missioner of Moral Welfare, the Anti- i
Saloon I.eague of Virginia does not i
propose to irtfririlto on the exeout ive I
powers of the Oovcrnor, according to i
a statement made by Uev. James Can
non. Jr.. chairman of the legislative
'ommlttee. at the annunl meeting of
?he league ;,t lJro:?| Stre.-t Methodist
Church yesterday afternoon
Dr. Cannon declared that the Ger:
'?ral Assembly shouM elect ?):?? c-omrnls- '
Hioner and make his office a department '<
of government. similar to the Depart- '
ment of Health or any other State ?je- i
purtmcnt. and that the Governor should ;
have exactly the same powr over such '
cominlFsioner as uvcr any other ?!<?- ?
partment head.
T!ie olvloct of the committee, he'
t.i'.o(i, was to have this department i
magnified. made a department of the :
?v"'ate government, with the sole work
of enforcing such prohibition laws as I
'he General Assembly may enact, lie;
as an illustration the other de- |
partments. showing how. wheti in need t
of legal advice, the citise,, turned to 1
the Attorney?-Generars oflice. When it!
was a question of health, the citizen 1
turned to the Health Department, and
l>" believed that. as the question of!
? nforeing the prohibition laws was to!
1? a large one. this should be made a !
department to whirl, the citizen might !
turn when In n?ed of advice relative to i
these laws.
POHMCIt r.OVKRVOI! MAW
PHKSIDi:.* IX AKTKRXOOX j
The afternoon session was presided!
over bv former Governor William '
Hodges Mann, and was formally opened j
by devotional exercises le<! by Rev. ;
John A. Taylor, yesterday chosen secre- j
tary of the convention.
Governor Mann stated that he had i
prepared no speech, but thai he would i
make a few remarks. H<- declared in j
opening' that the Anti-Saloon League |
might go too far, or w? mav not go |
far enough." Ho ..ailed for a free dis- !
cussion of the questions which were
to be brought up during the afternoon,
and said that out of free discussion
tho ideas of the delegates could he
ascertained and the convention would
gain front such discussions. Onco tho
convention had agreed upon any propo- j
sition. he said, if should show a j
Mr,ifght front to ilin outside, stating i
that there should be r.o division in the !
ranks. He referred to the advances of
the German army, ami stated tha: this i
organization should prove a b's.son to j
the convention as regards undivided ?
efforts. |
The Governor called upon the secre- !
tary to read the minutes of the pre-!
ceding sessions, and at this time the j
committees were first announced. The!
committees follow:
Resolution?-?R??v. K. T Dadmun. It. j
S. Harbour, I' V. D Conway, Rev. W. '
A. Christian. Hew r. M. pjieher. Rev.
'' u" Kemper. George p. Adams and I
Howard M. Il<-ce.
; Nominations? .1. W. Cant muck. S. F.
j Rogers, Uev. T. Mc.V. Simpson. Rov.
j "? IJennett. ev-Governor W H
j Mann. Uev. K. T Wellfonl, W. H. Vln
, cent, J. I-.. Coopo: and 1'rofessor C. T.
j Jordan.
j Credentials ---Re.v. David Hepburn,
i Rev. Tiiomas Senimea. P. I>. Camp, J. T.
| Tucker, c a. Jenkins and R. A. Gary,
in*, c.wxox ki:ai)s iwimci*
I'ltllll COMMISSI,>m;k ni.ru
I The chairman called upon Dr. Cannon
| to read the paper prepared by Fred O.
| Blue, of West Virginia, who could not
| he present.
Tho position occupied by .Mr. P.lue in
j West Virginia is similar to that which
J is proposed for the State Commissioner
J of Moral Welfare. His subject was
j -Necessity for a State Department of
j Prohibition to Secure State-Wide Rn
| forcemeat."
In the opening line-* of the- paper Mr.
? Pino stated that when a State passes
j from the wet to the dry condition, the
I real fight, instead of being concluded
j has Just hegun in real earnest, and he
I gave his reasons for so stating,
j He declared that there is an element
the product of the saloon, of vicious
| men who will become bootleggers and
I who believe that they are below the
.notice of the law. There is another
| element, he declared, which is mot e
j dangerous even than the low product,
j This class, lie said, were those who dis
regarded the law, believing that they
. were above it and could not be touched
, by it. He showed how this element
; with considerable standing in their
several communities, would try to point
out tho flaws In the operation of the
prohibition law and seek at all times
to return to the former condition.
, KI.KJIEMTS WHICH Si;iOK
TO DISCItHIHT PI*Oil | IIITIOX
lie pointed out the fact that thero
.are officers who favor the open saloons
and he declared that these officials'
through failure properly to execute the
prohibition laws. greatly j,?rt ,)lft
cause. Then he said there were two
j other big elements which never sleep
I the inside liquor interests and the out -
sldo liquor interests, which seek at all
times by organized effort to carry tho
Stale back to the wet column.
He declared the outside element, or
rather tho saloon organization, hired
the best legal talent that monev could
fi.tc.ire and was at all times attempting
to break down the prohibition laws. To
meet all of these Interests he slated
that the prohibition forces must have
an organization with power to carry
| out the laws. A centralisation of power
In one head, he declared, was what was
necessary. He said that public seirti
(Continued on Ninth Page.)
>
JORDAN WITHDRAWS
CAUCUS petition:
Staunton Senator Will Not Sit
With Democrats in Shaping
Legislation.
FOR COMPULSORY EDUCATION
Superintendent Stearnes Out-1
lines His Position on Pending '
Bills Before Joint Committees. J
j
In lieu of .1 report from th<- investi
gating <orn m I tt ee on the quality of
Senator Jordan's Democracy, :i state-!
ment from the Staunton Senator. !n
which lie withdrew hi?i petition to *n-i
tor the Democratic caucus, was read
last night before that body by Sena
tor West. of Nansemond. It liad h?en
reported for several days thai Senator
Jordan would probably take tliis action
In view of tho fact that the committee
was almost unanimous in its belief that
he hail forfeited. his right to sit in the:
councils of the party.
Senator Jordan's statement was as
follow":
"Kind In bt that to enter the Senate
caucus might impose, by implication,
obligations that I cannot conscientious
ly assume. I desire to withdraw my ap
plication to enter the caucus."
The Staunton Senator, who did not
enter the primary, ran as an imlepen-'
d? nt Democrat against \V. l{. Landes,
the regular nominee of the party, de
feating him by a majority of nearly
r>ftn. Chairmen of the Democratic com-1
mittees in his senatorial district testi
fied before the investigating committee
that he failed to file notice of his candi
dacy with them sixty days prior to the'
primary as required by law. and that.'
as an independent candidate, lie align-}
ed himself with the Republicans of the
district. On several occasions, too. they!
said, he had failed to support the tiomi-!
nee of the party.
JOH D.% X feAYS IMtlMAK V
I'AW IS DKPKCTIVR ,
.Senator Jordan's defense was that lie!
entered the race In itsponse to a peti-j
Hon of more than 1.000 voters of the
district, ami that he had no idea ofj
offering himself for the office until that
petition was handed hint only a few '
days before tho primary, lie did not!
feci hound, he said, by the operation of
a law with such an obvious derect j
that of forcing a man to declare hi?'
intention five months before the gen-'
eral election?and felt that be .had re
nounced none of his Democracy in tak-l
[ ing the position he did. j
The investigating' committee was
composed of Senator Wendenbm-g,
chairman; Senators West, Saunders, j
Addison and Downing.
Senator West announced to the cau-i
cus that Senator Koyall. of Tazewell. >
had been nominated l>y the steering!
committee to become a member of tliei
I Finance Committee from the minority!
I party. The nomination was approved!
by the caucus.
; STIlonK-MM>IM>\ Illt.l, NOT
AIMMIOVKIJ IIY I'll OH IIirriO.\ I.STM
The. General Assembly gossiped with
avidity over the rift in tho prohibition!
j ranks resulting front the introduction !
i of tiie Strode-Addison hill which tin-,
j dertak'S to prescribe in some detail!
! the machinery for carrying out the will j
J of the people as indicated by their!
| overwhelming ratification of the en-j
j Hbling act.
; From authoritative sources it was!
learned yesterday that the Strode-Ad-!
dison bill has been characterized by j
at least one leader hich in tho councils j
of the Anti-Saloon League as a measure j
drafted without consultation with the
reigning spirits of this organization
and the members of tho General As
, H'-mbly closest in torn-h with its poli
cies. in view of these circumstances
it appears probable that the bill will
be rejected In whole or in part l?y the
prohibition majority of the two houses.
The principal point of difference is
jon the question of what authority shall
j be intrusted with the duty or securing
Jan adequate enforcement of (he prohl-j
j hit inn statutes to be enacted. The I
| Strode-Addlson bill looks to the en
! forcement of tho law- through the Gov
i ertior and the policing and legal ma
j chinery under his direction, while the
Anti-Saloon League, and therefore, pre
sumably. the prohibition majority In
j the Legislature, will espouse the cre
ation of a special officer for this pnr
j pose?a commissioner of moral welfare.
I elected by the General Assembly.
|STI0AK\i:s FAVOnS A DKQV.ATK
COMIMI.SOHV ICIH'CATIOX I, AW .
! An adequate compulsory education;
I law. applying to children sound in mind'
j and body, who can neither read nor'
write and who have no private means!
| of receiving an elementary education,
! was strongly urged yesterday after- '
noon by State Superintendent Stearnes!
.before a joint session of the Senate'
J Committee on Public Institutions and!
. ^duration and the House Committee!
! on Schools and Colleges.
' Superintendent Stearnes also tit-zed]
jtho necessity of increased revenue for'
j carrying on the work of the public!
.'schools of the State, suggesting to the!
j joint committee that ilio best way to!
j meet that, demand would be to raise
j the school levy from 10 to "0 cents on I
j the <100. Despite the fact, he said, that!
j the Legislature had. from year lo year,!
I increased the appropriation for school I
i purposes, the amount of revenue peri
I capita had materially dwindled owing!
to a natural increase In school enroll
I mem.
I The compulsory education bill Luper-1
intendent Stearnes indorses is now be-,
ing drafted in accordance with the
views of tho department, and will hc|
introduced shortly In both branches of
the General Assembly.
SKOI I.O III.; STATK-WIDK
IX I I .S A I'l'I.ICATIOX
11 will not he in the form of a refer
i endum, but will be statutory. State
wide in Its application. Under It* pto
(Contl nucd on" Third Pa go.")
Named for Supreme Court
JUIKSE FKKDKKICK WlIiMER SIMS.
SHOOTS WOMAN AND i
TIN TAKES 01 LIFE
Robert S. Fields Commits Suicide ,
After Wounding Mrs.
I.aura Hell.
SFHGKONS SAY SUM MAV LIVE!
Tragedy Takes Plnec in Home of 1).
P. Stuart, on FarrinRton Street.!
"Fields Had llern Charged With
Failure to Support His Wife.
Robert S. Fields shot Mrs. Uaura
Hell Hi roil till the body just below the.
heart in the home of bis brother-in
law. I"*. IV Stuart, at 221f? Oarrlngton
Street. about *:.'?<> o'clock Inst night,
and. reloading the single-barreled re
volver. tired a hall throuah liis own
heart. lie died within a few minutes.
Mrs. l?e!l was rushed to Virginia llos
pAtal by Ambulance .Surpion Porter, and
is in a precarious condition. It is
thought. however, that slip will live,
as the surgeons liave located the hall
in her hack; aiul are of the opinion
that it followed the rlbft around the
body, rather than passing directly
through the vital organs.
Flehln Is iaiil to be the son of a
prominent merchant of Amherst Conti
tand to have Itccn a. deputy sheriff
of that county at one time. He re
cently returned to this city from Lynch
burg. where lie had been confined in
.fail for nioie than a month a wall ins
trial <>n ? charge of wife desertion, lie
was released about ten days ago, with
orders to pay Slrt a month toward the
support of his child, Fields was about
thirty-seven years old.
Mrs. IJell is said . t ?> be a native of
Amherst County also, hut has been
living here for some time. Persons in
the neighborhood say she has been
divorced from her husband, and that
her maiden name wan Kama Gruhhs.
She i.?- about twenty-eight years old,
and is the mother of two children, both
of whom lived with her at 2215! Cnr
rinuton Street.
KI.I.O \ m:i) MT.APOV AM)
Tt itMoii it ox unisi:i i-i
The scooting was done with a single
barreled Colt revolver of lary.e caliber,
nn.rl of identically the same type as
that with which President .lames Car
field was murdered. It was the prop
erty. of Ft. p. Stuart, brothor-in-law of
the dead man. Fields was forced to
reload the weapon with its copper shell
and needle-pointed bullet before ho
turned it on himself, after shooting the
woman.
That the shooting is (he culmination
of an old affair between the man and
the woman is the opinion of those who
know the families. It is said they have
known one another for years, ami that
their intimacy had something to do
with the divorce of tin* woman and
the separation of tlie man from Ids
wife.
"T thought he was my husband,*| Mrs.
Hell moaned to Policeman Alex Smith
as he questioned her concerning the
shooting. She would make no reply
when Smith asked her how Ioiik she had
known Fields was not her husband.
Turning convulsively on her side .she
gasped: "My breath is leaving me." anil
would make no further statement,
! >. P. Stuart told the most connected
story of the affair last night that the
police were able to obtain. He said
that Mrs. Hell had lu-eti livintr on T
Street for some time, but had moved
to 2212 Carringtou Street about a week
an'? because the rent was cheaper
there. She was employed in Whit
lock's tobacco factory, and was sup
porting lier two childrei).
AltltP.STBI) I.N I.YNCIini lUi
OX NOXStl'I'OHT l lt A itCIC
Stuart then Informed Captain Sowel!
| and Policeman Smith that Fields had
been arrested by the local police for
the l.yneliburg authorities on a non
support charge and returned to tliat
city for trial. He was released several
days ago. ami returned to tills city
early this week. Due to the fact that
Stuart's father-In-law had died recent
ly and his wife was suffering consider
ably from shock, he had taken her to
(Continued on Second Page.)
Iwpeets ti? l.enve Washington on
?January 28 and Remain Away
One Week.
SKCOXl) Till.!* XK-VT .MONTH
I May Thru Swin^ Through South on
! His Campaign Throughout t.'onn
try to Arouse Support for His Pre
paredness Program.
H ASHFN'fITO\. January 20. -I'resi
j flont Wilson plans to ."peak in Pitts
burgh. t'lovelnnd, '"hiesigo. St. I.ouis.
Kaiisjis Pity, St. Joseph, Pes Moines
; and Mn vonport on the first trip ho will
. take to lay his national defense i>ro.
gram helore the eontjtry. lf<? expccte
to le.no Washington on January "S
. :n><! remain awa> one week,
i ' i elimlna ry plans for the second (rip.
to be made ahont the middle of next
month, already are heiner Considered.
This journey probably will take the
President a.i far ?-esi ;l.| Denver, and.
, if possible, ho will sw(iiK through the
' s'outh 'o stop at Pirmiiigham and other
cities.
I'ltts burgli will hear the first pre
I pa redness speech on Saturday. Jnnuury
j Cn. The President will go to .Ww York
. on January L>7 to spc.aU at banquets of
? the Kail mad Bnsine.s Association and
the Motion Pie t tire Hoard of Trade. lie
. will return to Washington to attend
a dinner given in his honor h.v the.
Secretar\ of the Treasury and Mrs.
.Mi*Adoo otl j.inuary L'">. and that night
"?ill leave for Pittsburgh.
m:i:? i'dii liouiij/.vriov
Of .N ATION'S ItKSOl IICKS
Special interest is attached by the
President to his address before the
Kit i I road P.usiness Association, anrl he
; will prepare it in advance. He Is ex
pected to speak particularly on tho
need for better preparedness, and the
: necessity for the railroads and manu
facturing plants eetilng ready to ?s
slst the government in time of danger.
1 In his second uddress, the same night,
j he may mention the Mexican situation.
Messages from cities chosen as stop
; ping places indicate thai elaborate plans
will l?o made for the President's recep
tion. As fat as possible, the a r range
^ men is will be in 111e hands of non
; partisan organizations, because of the
j President's l;nown position that the
' preparedness issue is not political.
In addition to the cities selected for
formal addresses, the President prob
ably will deliver a number of short
speeches from the train. Although
none ot the preparedness addresses will
be written out in advance, he will begin
work next week shaping the ideas ha
desires to present to the public.
Mrs. Wilson is expected to accom
j pan> her husband on the trip, and
| Secretary Tumulty also will bo in the
parly. While the President is away he
will keep in dose touch with the Kuro
( pean and .Mexican situations through
Secretary Lansing.
U. C. V. AT BIRMINGHAM
Ne.vt A mi mil Heiiiiliiti \\ii| 'lake 1'lnee
In A Illinium Metropolis on Mn.v
Hli 17 mill IS Next.
\"K\\ ' iRl.KA.VS, January "0.?-The
! twenty-sixth annual reunion of the
? I'nlted i.'otitedera to Veterans will be
lield in Mirmliigham, Ala. on May 1
. ;*m' !,s next. Ofliclal announcement
of the dale and place of the reunion
wi s made here to-day by William 10.
Ml.kle. adjutant- genera I of the vet
erans' urganizat ion.
MRS. WILSON AT HOME
Wife of I'rrnblcn( t;|v?.? Firm Informal
Iteerpllon Since Upcoming Ml?
tromi of White llouxr.
\\ ASHIXOTOX. Jnnunrv 20.?Mrs
Woodrow Wilson, wife of the President
; to-day gave her tirst informal recep
i lion since becoming mistress of tho
: White Mouse. Her callers included
j Count, von ilernstoriY. the German am
bassador: l>r. David Jay lie. Hill, and
i many other prominent figures in
I Washington.
SIMS IS CHOSEN
SECOND BALLOT
Earned as Successor to
Judge James Keith by
Democratic Caucus.
HAS SERVED ON BENCH
AND IN STATE SENATE
Names of Professor William
Minor Lile and Judge E. S.
Turner in Nomination.
ll.A lil.OTS SHOW CLOSE RACE
i
Nomination of Rims Is Made Unani
mous Before Second Ilallot
Is Announced.
Frederick Wllmer Sim?, of Louisa,
former judge and State Senator, ami for
twmty-fivc years a distinguished mem
ber of the bar. was last night' nom
inated by the Joint Democratic, caucus
of tho Oenerril Assembly to the vacancy
on the bench of the Supreme Court ot|
Appeals of Virginia, which will be
created on February 1, 1 n17. by the re
tirement of .Tudgc James Keith.
The nomination took place on the
second ballot. Judge Sims polling sixty
one votes to the fifty-one votes re
reived by his opponent, Professor Wil
liam Minor Lile, dean of the law de
partment of the University of Virginia.
Upon the motion of Senator Saxon W.
Holt, of Newport News, the nomina
tion of Judge Sims was marie unani
nious before the vote was announced,
lie will be formally elected to the high
office of Judge of the Supreme Court
of Appeals later In the present session,
and will serve for a term of twelve
years, beginning February 1, 1017.
Only one other candidate was nom
inated?Judge Edward S. Turner, of
Warrenton. Tho first hallot was taken
with all thro* aspirants in the race,
thp vote resulting as follows: Lile. 4?;
Sims. SO. and Turner, 14. Under the
rules of caucus, the name of Judge
Turner was then dropped, and tho con
test on tho next and last hallot nar
rowed down to Judge Sims and Pro
fessor Idle.
\OMI\KK IS WKIjI-KNOWX
V litGI.M A LAWYER
Judge Sims Is a native of Louisa
I County, where he was born on July
| "3. ISC^. the son of Or. Frederick II.
iand'.AInrla l.oulsa Kimhrough Sims.
! His legal education was obtained at the
j University of Virginia, lfe was nd
I mitt.ed to the bur in lSSf>. beginning his
j active practice at Louisa.
j On January I, 1S!?1, he was elected
judge of the County Court of Louisa.
| County, an office which he filled until
j it wan abolished by the new Constltu
i tion on February 1, lf*04. In Novombor,
' lOrtS. be was elected to the Stat.o Sen
late from the Thirteenth District. He
I served on the Committees on Privileges
I and Fleet ions, Courts of Just ice, Roads
and Internal Navigation, and Enrolled
j Pills. In 1XSS Judge Sims married Miss
j Lucy Payne Winston, daughter of the
j lute Colonel William A. Winston, of
j Louisa.
The (.lencral Assembly of Virginia,
I called upon frequently to discharge the
I duty of elevating some citizen to a
position of high honor, has not in the
? present generation been the sccno of a.
j judicial election so fraught with tenee
] interest as the one of last night. As
i rivals for a place on the State's highest
! tribunal were arrayed a distinguished
j teacher of law, under whose banner
j were marshaled some of the ablest men
j in the legislature, and a renowned
I practitioner of law of no loss dlstinc
J (ion and a still greater following.
j TK.VSK FKKI-IXC; IX
HOUSE THltmrCJHOUT SESSION
j While the Democratic members of the
two houses went into caucus under a
current prediction that Judge Sims
I would l>e nominated before the evening
j whs over, there was sutllclent element
] of doubt to tnake even tho ntanchest
supporter of the Louisa man apprehon
sive of a last-minute realignment. Not
the least factor that contributed to
ihts feeling of insecurity was the
l strength of a third faction which
i championed the cause of Judge Turner.
It was recognized that the Turner men
! held the balance of power, and that
the manner In which they would split
! up after their candidate was dropped
! would determine the election.
State-wide interest in the content
j among lawyers and laymen alike
packed the gallery and lower floor of
the hall of the House of Delegates with
' a demonstrative crowd. I.ong before
Chairman Jordan, of the joint caucus,
j called the body to order the gallery
' was filled to overflowing. The assem*
| blagc included former members of the
i Legislature and prominent members of
j the bar and judiciary, from itlchmond
and many sections of the State. A
' number of women were interested sper
! tutors, all of them taking a keen in
: terest in the proceeding*.
; .VO.MINATlXti SPEECHES
AUK M.MKHOVS
i
i Nominating and seconding speeches
( were numerous and unrestricted as to
i time. There ran through all the
? speeches the almost unanimous opinion
j that the t;? neral Assembly could make
no mistake In choosing any one of
the tlireo candidates who were offered,
all of them richly qualified to discharge
I the duties of tho high ofttco about to
{ be tilled. Personal convictions alone.
as to the superior qualifications of one.
I the speakers made it clear, governed
! them It* expressing their preference for
this or that candidate. Several of the
; speakers expressed gratification at the
j ?'act that rivalry between Judge Sims
I and Professor Lllo baa at no time been
j marred by the Introduction of anything
j even remotely personal.
The caucus was called to ordsr at
S:10 o'clock, and proceeded to nominate /
Judge John T. OooJrlck a? judge of /'
the Corporation Court of Fredericks- V,
burg, to succeed himself, for a new,
term of si* years, beglnnlny February'
