T:
FINANCIAL EDITION
He&ner
NIGHT
EXTRA
ittmtm
NIGHT
tlA. I WJ
rrc
VOL. II--NO. Ill
Philadelphia, itriday, January 21, ioig.
ConniaitT, 1010, r TiiB-Pcrtto I.r-DOEn CoiirANr.
PBIOJD3 (XSTE OH5NT
9
I'
P
it
I
ROOSEVELT'S
SPEECH PUTS
'HAT IN RING'
.Takes Up Challenge to
Meet the G. 0. P. Ele
phant Half Way
-ASSAILS THE PRESIDENT
I fcnlls for Protective Tariff, Uni-
l' . t HfMll
versai uompuisory military
J Service and Preparedness
ffi.ooilnriy Roosevelt wont more than
if half way to meet tlio Elophnnt.
t- In the most comprehensive nrrnlKtimcnt
1 i Of the Democratic rtuillllliniliiim m imn
, F mido since It took oftlco, nnd a more
tV bitter personnl attack upon tile fitness ot
klfi.. -. . ll'llnnn I. rt M lllltf lift Itt n f 1 n t II
eE yooaruw ibu" " "' " ""
5 the 1012 campaign, lie ranro .is nrar u
I' 4 taking up -lio Implied challenge. , with
t.i,.i, ihn nttnosDhero wns pregnant.
i', that ho assume leadership nn a. Tresl-
f clentlal caiuuunio ns it m jiunaiuiv ii
i do without saying so.
And ho defined his entire political
''rped. Including a demand for a pro-
t, tcctlve tnrlff.
I- Not a man In tho P00O who cheered
111 no v,oiii' i,ct u"",v" " .-.
at ' Jitarly two hours' duration at tho Mctro
fc? Dolltan Opera Houso Inst night hut left
, tho building convinced uini kooscvcii
, was a candidate, and a lighting candi
date, for tho Itepubllcnn nomination.
Tho challenge to leadership came rol-
imulnir tho echo of that one Inevitable
j '' . and lrrcpresslblo citizen who had to cry
.' I I -... xnvl Tlol,1lMlf t' Tf pnniA In fast
Tf - K W It was tho Jest of the president of
'I . (he Baldwin Locomotive Works, chnlr-
! man of tho closing session of tho Nn
ISSJtlonal Americanization Conference, a
irvnlenl lending representative of Penn-
3f sylvanla Industry and Ilcpubllcanlsm.
Alba 1. Jonnson iniruciuceu mo i,uionci
t h with a Joko about elephants In tho big
.'game sense. A mighty hunter hnd told
him that some men would got behind a
We ant-hill to hldo from a charging
elephant, but thnt Roosevelt was tho kind
of man who would so half way to meet
that elephant.
"Of course, there Is no political signifi
cance In that," Mr. Johnson aided. Hut
the Colonel simply mrew oncK ins ncau
and roared, showing 32 mcmornble teeth,
lie was on his feet In a minute. He saw
that the "charging elephant" meant to
the audience a Republican party that
mhjht mako overtures to him openly, if
T anything could bo moro open In tho way
of overtures man tho "starring of Mm
(la tho one great Eastern State ho car
lied In 1912) by Its leading Republican
vdtliens on an occasion ot unhiuo slg
Blftcance. "Ai for going half way to meet tho
Elephant," ho cried, happily, In n'funny
JdgU falsetto vqIcc "I may pay , that In
addition I've gono half' way to meet Bull
; , Moose In Canada; and In addition I may
i say x unco imicu nuuiu vurj iviiii jvuii
..".keya. I' tnnt Isn't a. record for non-
J partisanship, I don't know what would
lie."
And then ho went nfter those wild Don
keys again for he obviously meant Dem
ocratstooth and nail, hammer and tongs.
He raked 'Woodroiv Wilson foro and nft.
T)irrt ti'fict YiTttflt., n anntnnno In tliA Inni
'J' ipecch that was not aimed directly at tho
presidential policies which ho did not dis
tinguish from tho "typo of man," of
'amiable pacifist creatures of my own
sex. In so far as I can nscrlbo sex to
i them."
t Ho did not mention tho namo of Wll-
ton onco. but he did, not seem to caro
li. whether tho audience thoucht he meant
tJ. Wilson or onlv Ford. Ho rather left the
Ijft; Impression that Wilson hnd helped or-
i!' Kuto mo roru pcuca pariy.
Witt The only hisses and they were few and
, Continued on l'oo Sir, Column One
I NEW YORK PRISON HEAD
REMOVED BY WHITMAN
jJohn B. Riley Accused of Inter
rupting Discipline at
Sing Sing
ALBANY. N. T.. Jan. 21. Governor
S Whitman today removed State Supcrln-
W naent of Prisons John B. Riley. Riley
was charged with attempting to break up
' the dlsciDllne of Wnnlen Klrchwev at
SiBIng Sing by transferrlncr nrisoners who
p; ere: prominently Identified with the Mu
rium welfare League to Dannemora
'prison.
B"
THE WEATHER
!-
ow that spring is here again for the
smth. or tenth tlmo this winter, we can
tt down again Into the old rut and
tch onr rnlilfi ii r.Af il? nf hm nn
m -se may bo, without the pleasur-
'. ?.""' record temperature, lis
. th0rO1117rllir ilt.--flnnhl alnla nf nf-
:-f?lrs- b"t U can't be helped. There are
S") Who love cold weather better than
PH. tir B' nu 'here are those who asK
" iii0,5 ms n,ccr 'han a temperature around
wsrees. uut, oh. how few and rar
Mtween are the mortals who will defend
tn weather as this. We have about
? IP our mind that we are rendering
P Mrvlce whatsoever to our fellowman
in 'n0"" a forecast that promises noth
e out a continuation of something less
a-. luai as far as the weather-Is con
"d. u it looks as if it wero going
10 Set COld. All l-fcrtt If II- Id ..nlni, n
. J.' u r,Bnt- Anything other than
VM; discreet silence.
Wnat you jlon't know can't hurt you!
FORECAST
Fn Dlll.il i r ... ....
. f,' -' ,? uue(pnia ana vicinity
is! h!v eloU(V and unsettled fo-
VrZ-..""" oamraai; supniiu warmer
KWeat Mmua inuaiiy ouuiii-
Jor details see page 16.
LOST AND rotJND
tXmiKATEl of Uewberhlp No.' 123T In the
bTn.?. ,.,,i?cn,' ot Philadelphia. In
wti5V' F ll u- havloif been loal.
Ua D)?iheJel"r ,ven that application ha
" made for a new cortiBeut.
ifefllVC r. '
V. H. iJKI.I-
F VLtrif'i. -Nut of laundry towels from
Uberai JL 5 "ox and Locust, on Monday.
gat Qlt or return to 212 a. Uth t.
fcfc'rS!i -"nail browa purse, contalnlnjc
-Si: vJnilKU'.ne-' -- lT'h and porter
--S-!4jSHjr liberal reward. 23ia a 17th
bt Lct ana Vuund Ad ou Vusu 1
I?1 Great New
WILL FOIICE WIVES TO APPEAR
AGAINST HllUTAL IIUSUANDS
Magistrate Harris "Tired of Having
Women Not Appear"
"I'm getting tired of having women
have their husbands arrested and then not
appearing against them," said Mnglstrnte
Hnrrls today. "If there's one type of
lawbreaker t detest. It's tho wlfc-benter."
Tho Magistrate then held Jntnas
Sweeney. 32 years old, 6111 Tocum street,
charged with beating his wife. In $600 ball
for a further hearing Sunday. Sweeney's
wife failed to appear agnlnsl him nnd the
Mnglstrnte Instructed the police to have
her at tho hearing Sunday, whether she
wnntcd to press tho charges or not.
"1 don't know whether It Is fear or re
morse that makes so many women drop
the charges ngnlnst brutnt husbands,"
said Magistrate Harris, "but 1 nm deter
mined to bring these dcsplcnblo wlfc
bcatcra to Justice, even If I liavo to drag
their wives Into court ngnlnst their
wishes."
WORKMAN CRUSHED TO DEATH
Caught in the Machinery of a Sta
tionary Gas Engine
A workman was crushed to death today,
when ho was caught In a stationary gns
engine In tho flrc-brlck plnnt of Hyzer
& Llewellyn, D32 North Otli street. Ho
was Ernest Henry, of VM North 0th
street. Henry, according to his em
ployers, was a clay gtludcr, iml his placo
of work wns In an entirely different part
of the building fiom thnt In which tho
gas cnglno wns eltuated. They surmlso
ho wandered near the gns engine out of
curiosity and, getting too close, his
clothes were caught and ho wns drawn
to his death
Tho body was removed to the Morgue.
COLONEL ROOSEVELT SITS Ott MUNICIPAL COURT BENCH
The former President is
BULGARS JOIN
AUSTRIANS FOR
ALBANIA DRIVE
Offensive Renewed With
Redoubled Vjolence
Against Montenegrins
BULGAR COAST ATTACKED
TARIS, Jan. 21.
Austrian troops In Montenegro have re
newed their offenslvo apalnst tho Mon
tenegrins with redoubled violence, ac
cording to dispatches from tho Rahmans.
Genaral Koevess" army is advancing on
tho lino of Cettlnje-Podogorltzn, whllo
another detachment Is moving south
along tho Adriatic coast toward Antlvarl.
Austrian forces in northern Albania are
concentrating for an nttack against
Scutari. ,
PARIS, Jan. Jl. Another Bulgarian
army of 30.000 men hns Invaded Albania
from Monnstlr. says the Salonlca corre
spondent of the IZcUo da Paris.
That allied troops will help tho Serbians
and Montenegrins defend Scutari was the
belief expresed by French military ex-
PThe army of Essod Pasha, former ruler
of Albania, who declared war on Aus
tria, has arrived at Scutari and will Join
the retreating Montenegrins.
VIENNA. Jan. 51.
It Is announced that tho Austrian
Forelsn Olilce has received no otrtclul
advices to the effect thnt the peace terms
of Austria had been rejected by tho
Montenegrins.
It Is stated that, so far as known by
attaches 01 me 'urcB "'' vw.-
V" .L-l .... rountnllvea of thfl Mon-
tenegrln Government and the supreme
Austrian commander In Montenegro are
communis.
FALL KILLS WOMAN OF 85
Mrs. Catherine Hope Dead After Trip
ping on Stairs
Mrs. Catherine Hope. S3 years old. died
nrinv from the effects of injuries caused
uy a flu downstairs at her home. 1131
'"Hoprwas on her way down to
hkiait At the landing she tripped,
and fetl the rest of the way down the
flight She was unconscious when a
.C'aSS"1 WW Pnv'clans said
w skull was fractured. She was not
c'oViousat any time after the accident.
Ousted in 1912. Gets City Job
iohn E Codman, former superintendent
nf the high pressure Are main service.
. in 191 "was removed by former PI
W?ni Cooke today appointed chief
hUmnor "o Bureau of Water, at
draughtsman " s, Codman for
asalarnuDNhe Position of chler
SearShtsma of tfiTBuwau ot Water be
fowhto WPEiU superintendent
Sil Story, "Home," a Tale of
ROOSEVELT SEES
"FALLEN WOMEN"
FREED IN COURT
Colonel Takes Seat Beside
Judge Brown Try
ing Cases
PAYS VISIT TO MAYOR
Smith Tells Former President
Will of People Is His
Chief Concern
Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, iormcr
President of tho United Stntcs and cham
pion of purity In Amcrlcniriiomo life, pat
upon the bench In tho Domestic Relations
Court today while three unfortunate girls
wero being tried for their offense ngnlnst
tho law.
The courtroom was crowded with
wrecks of humanity wnywird girls, hus
bands neensed of desuitlou nnd wives
charged with Infidelities. Tho crowd of
prisoners forgot their trouhtes for n mo
ment ns Colono) Roosevelt entered the
courtroom. Olrls waved their handker
clcfs, wet with tenrs, and youths shouted
"Hurray for Teddy!"
Judge Chnilcs I,. Itnnvn, president ot
tho court, rapped In vain for order.
Kscortcd by Mrs. .Inne Dcctcr Rlppln,
chief probation olllccr ot the court, and
Continued nn l'ncr Six, Column Three
shown beside Judfre Charles L. Brown,
MOB STRINGS UP FIVE
NEGROES AFTER USING
RUSE TO ENTER JAIL
Men Accused of Complicity in
Murder of Georgia Sheriff
Hanged, Then Riddled
With Bullets
JAILER FOOLED BY TRICK
ALBANY, Ga Jan. 21. l-'Ivo negroes
were found hanging to a tree near Stark
vllle todav. their bodies riddled with bul
lets. They aro live of tho six men taken
from the Worthy County Jail at Sylves
ter, Ca., last'nlBht.
Tho negroes wero held In tho Jail at
Silvester on tho chargo of complicity In
the murder of Sheriff Mnrelnnd, of I,ee
County, several weeks ago. Tho mob
worked the old-time ruso of lynchers to
obtain their pilsoncrs.
About midnight Sheriff Potts nt Syl
vester was awakened by the ringing of
the Jail bell. Opening a window ho nsked
what was wanted and was told that n
prisoner was below to be delivered Into
his keeping. Tho Sheriff came down
stairs, and the Instant the door wns
opened tho mob rushed In. A quick search
of the cells revealed the prisoners, and
in a Jiffy they had been seized nnd tnken
outside. Whllo this was going on Sheriff
Potts was overpowered and forced Into
a small room, where he was bound.
Onco outside, tho mob put the negroes
Into automobiles, which evidently had
been kept In waiting nearby, and were
out of town in a few minutes. No less
than 15 automobiles wero used by the
mob in its raid on the Jail. Each one
carried from six to eight men.
It Is not known here just what negroes
were lynched, but the one charged with
the actual killing of Sheriff Moreland was
not In the party.
SI PREPARAUNANUOVA
SPED1ZI0NE IN ALBANIA
L'ltalia Ha Chiesto Che Un Nu-
ovo Esercito Sia Sbarcato
in Quella Regione
Telegramml da Londra dicono che tra 1
govern! alleati Bono In corso trattatlve e
scambli ill Idee per quant o rlguarda 1' Al
bania. SI dice che l'ltalia ha chiesto II
trasporto dl un nuovo corpo dl tpedlzlone
In quella zona alio scopo dl salvare
l'Albania dalta sorte che e" toccata alia
Serbia ed al Montenegro. E" pogslblle
che ll piano dell'Italla venga accettato e
che si pensl nubito e serlamento alia dlfesa
dell'AIbanla
Leserclto Riontenegrlno combatte val
orosamente contro le torze austriache, ma
e' stato costretto a rtplegare davanti a
forze dl molto supcrlorl e st rltlra versa
Scutari dove el unlra' alio forze dl Easad
panda.'. Intanto un telegramma da Sa
tonloco ad un gfornale parglglno dice che
I bulgarl nan luvano oncora I'Albanlo con
un altro esercito dl 30.0X1 uomlnl pattltl
dalla base dl Monastlr.
PIlOUltESSIVK ltElMJHLICANS
WANT PENNSYLVANIA'S AID
Desire Keystone Men's Assistance at
Chicago Convention
tl) n Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, Jan. 21. - Progressive
Republican Senators nnd Congressmen,
who nro perfecting nn organization here
for the purpose of forcing tho nomination
of n candidate of progressive principle!)
In tho Chlrago convention, hnvo asked
Representative Henry V. Temple, of
Washington, to Interest tho Pennsylva
nia Republicans In the movement
The itcTt meeting 1 to be held here
tomorrow night, but Rcpresontntlic Tem
ple said lie doubted whether he would
attend hecnuso ho may not be In tho
city, furthermore, ho explained that
ho docs not want to appeal to the Penn
sylvania Republicans, because he hns
been so recently taken Into the pnity
fold from the Progressive party.
When Representative Temple learned
today that the ptogresslvo Republicans
nro nrrnnglng n "division of. teirltor.v"
for Senntors La Toilette nnd Cummins,
so that theso candidates for the Repub
lican nomination will not split the Pro
gressive strength by appearing ngalnst
ench other In Jmrtlculnr Stntcs ho snld:
"I should hesitate to go Into any move
ment for the pin-pose of getting dclegntcs
for any certain candidate. I doubt the
advisability of such a move. I want to
see a mini nominated nt Chicago who can
be supported not only by the progressive
Republican nnd tho other Republicans
but by the Progressives not jn the party."
Will Sell Stamps on Sunday
It will be possible hereafter to buy
stamps on Sunday nt tho Postolllco' be
tween the hours ot 9 n. in. nnd midnight.
Postmaster Thornton hns announced thnt
he has decided to provide tills con
venience for the public. Many romplnlnts
have been received from persons who be
lieved that they should be altowcd to buy
stamps nt the Postolllco on Sunday, nnd
It was because of them that Postmaster
Thornton made his decision.
who appears on the right.
PORTER DENIES
PENROSE DEAL;
VARE REPEATS
Former Director Declares
Story of Secret Alliance
a Falsehood
"OUT OF OBSCURITY"
The lie was passed nnd then handed
back ugaln today by (Jcorgo I). Porter
and Senator Edwin II. Varo over the
chargo made by tho lntter this morning
that the former Director of Public Safety
and mayoralty caudldato of the independ
ents last fall, had entered Into u secret
political coalition with Senator James P.
McNichol.
Mr. I'ortcr Ilutly denied Senator Varc's
charges. "When the Senator says that
he knew I had made n becret alliance
with Senator McNichol ho states a de
liberate and unqualified falsehood, and
knows It," said Mr. Porter.
Ho also declared to be false Senator
Vnro's statement that Senator Penrose
and McNichol had offered him a "sot
berth."
Senutor Varo, In nnswer to Porter's
reply, lepeated the chargo thnt tho al
leged alliance hns been formed.
The MoNlchol-Portcr alliance Js well
known, and needs no further comment on
my part," ho said,
PORTER'S DENIAL.
Mr. Porter said:
Senator Vare has unwittingly per
formed for mo a signal service, After
the last election I thought I was a
"dead one," but he has succeeded In
bringing me out of obscurity, as he dla
Mayor Smith.
When the Senator says that he knew
that I had mado a secret alliance with
Senator McNichol he states a deliber
ate and unqualified falsehood, and he
knows It.
I have met Senator McNichol on
many occasions. Just as I have met
Senator Vare. I presume It is a crime
for me to even speak to the former
without a permit from the latter,
I have not now, never have had,
nor do I expect to have any alliance
of any kind with Senator McNichol
ho Is a political contractor like Vare.
and I will use in the future, as I have
in the past, my best efforts to put
them both out of business.
The" statement thatI have been of
fered a soft berth by either Mr. Pen
rose or Mr. McNichol is as true as
Senator Vare'a former statements. I
am not seeking political preferment
of any kind.
Senator Vare, In answer to a state
ment made by Senator Penrose which
brought up the Issue of "contractor
boasea." today reminded the senior Sena
tor that South Philadelphia has been
largely responsible for most of the Or
ganization victories in the last 10 years.
The alleged Porter-Peurose alliance was
rumored after the former Director and
several of his friends who were In charge
ot the Franklin party campaign visited
Senator Penrose In the latter s office last
Saturday.
It was accepted on the Itialtq as pre-
Continued, ou I'uge Two, Column One
Romance and Adventbre, Begins
VILLA TRAPPED
BUT FOILS FOE
BY WILDMSH
Bandit Chief Has Narrow
Escape From Capture
by Carranzistas
EIGHTEEN OUTLAWS SHOT
Colonel Lopez Among Those
Caught and Executed
for Massacre
fit. PASO, Tex., Jan. 21. Francisco
Villa is still nt lorgo, occordlng to the
best Information reaching Cnrrnnzlstn of
ficials In Juarez todny.
A dispatch from General Herrcrn, com
manding tho Government troops nt Chi
huahua, denied reports that Villa had
been rounded up with several followers
and taken prisoner. Persistent rumors
were in circulation thnt tho bandit lender
hnd been taken, but Government authori
ties hero declined the reports were evi
dently premature.
There Is every confidence nmong Cnr
ranzlstns that Villa will eventunlly bo
taken. Ho will be Immediately shot.
HAD NARROW KHCAPE.
It was explained that the report of
Villa's cauturo urew out of tho capture
nf IS bandits by Colonel Mnxlmilllano
Mnniuei! near San Gcronlmo ranch. In
Chlhunhun.
However, Villa Is believed to have had
a narrow escape.
On Wednesday a detachment of Cnr
ranzlslu soldiers surrounded a band of
nbout 20 bandits In a mountain pass,
among them being Villa. So suro was tho
Carrnnzistii enmmnnder that nono ot the
followers of Villa could ese.ipo that ho
sent a courier to the nearest telegraph
post to report to the gnrrlsor coniinnnder
In Chihuahua City tlmt n detachment' nf
bnndlts, among them Krnnclxvo Villa, had
been taken.
In the meantime, tho Carranzlstn sol
diers closed 'in and found thnt Villa and
one of his followers managed to get away.
Following Mexican Consul Andres Gar
cla's announcement List night that "tho
Mexican Robin Hood" was being brought
to Juarez to be executed, possibly before
a great crowd at tho raco track, tho de
nial by General Herrcrn resulted In great
disappointment.
s the fondest hopes of the de facto
Government weio thus dissipated a now
revolution against Carrftnza wns re
poited to bo mnrklng Its progress around
Torreon with human corpses swinging
from telephone poles nnd beheaded bodies
left In tho sticots.
Karller private message from mining
Continued on I'ukc 111 r. Column ,Tno,
Hangs Herself From Dedpost
NORRISTOWN, Ta., Jan. 21. Mrs.
r'wtnii lvrlnliftl nt T.ttnsrinln. pommtttnil
sulcldo today by hanging, having tied a
ropo to a bedpost. Sho has been HI with
the grip.
WOMAN WINS $2500
VERDICT IN LAWSUIT
AGAINST SALOON MAN
Virginia Alexander's Allegation
That Husband's Death Was
Due to Liquor Upheld
by Jury
APPEAL DEEMED LIKELY
A verdict for $2500 for Mrs, Virginia
Alexnndcr, In her suit ngnlnst Jacob
Bosch, a saloonkeeper, of 1S21 North 27th
street, to recover damages for tho death
of her husband which wns due, she al
leged, to his condition resulting from
liquor sold him by tho defendant, was
brought by a Jury this morning.
The Jury agreed on a verdict last night,
and placed it in a sealed envelope to bo
opened today. The case was tried before
Judge PaMerson In Common Pleas Court
No. 1.
The verdict for damages was brought
despite tho denial of Bosch that ho had
been warned by the woman not to sell
liquor to her husband.
The erdlct caused a great surprise In
legal circles, and. If sustained, is ex
pected to have a great effect on the con
duct of saloons, not only In this city hut
throughout the State.
It will mean that a saloonkeeper Is
responsible if he sells a man so much
liquor that his health becomes ruined
and death results. Alexander's death fol
lowed two years of debauchery and Im
mediately following an overdose of al
cohol, after recovery from which he was
again brought home drunk, dying ap
proximately a month later.
The act of IS31, making It unlawful for
a saloonkeeper to sell liquor to persons
known to be of Intemperate habits, was
made the basis of the suit. The act pro
vides that wr.ere death cr Injury results
to victims ot the drink habit, the saloon
keeper can be held liable for damages.
The Brooks high license was also cited,
and Judge Patterson charged, sustain
ing the contention of Mrs. Alexander's
lawyer, that If the Jury was convinced
that the death of Alexander was directly
due to excessive drinking In Bosch's
saloon they could Hnd a verdict for the
Plaintiff.
In the suit Mrs. Alexander alleged that
her husband, Adam S. Alexander, had
died from excessive use of alcoholic stim
ulants and that he had been a regular
patron of Bosch's saloon.
Bosch not only denied that he had been
warned not to sell intoxicants to Alex
ander, but said that Mrs. Alexander often
came to the saloon with her husband and
drank with him.
Bosch admitted that Mrs. Alexander
had once told a bartender not to servo
her husband, but that shortly after that
she came to the saloon herself to get a
pitcher of beer and that when the bar
tender commented on this the said It was
all right to sell her husband if he wanted
to drink.
Mrs. Alexander testified that her hus
band had mortgaged his house for i?10O
and spent the money in Bosch's saloon.
Physicians testified that Alexander's 11 f 9
bad been shortened trum 10 to 20 years
by alcoholic excesses.
QUICK
PRESIDENT AND MRS. WILSON TO TAKE CRUISE
WASHINGTON, Jan. 21,-The President and Mrs. Wilson Will
leave tonight for a few days' cruise clown the Potomac River and
niottml Chesapeake Day on the presidential yacht Mayflower, It was
announced nt the White House this afternoon. ,
RUSSIANS OCCUPY PERSIAN CITY
LONDON, (tan. 21. A llcutcr dispatch from Teheran says that
the Kusaiiins have occupied Siillannbad, CO inllcj southeast of liiinln
iliut (l'ors n), the Turku fleeing lowaid Uunijtrd.
BRITISH SHIP TORPEDOED IN MEDITERRANEAN
LONDON, Jan. 21. Tho nrlllsli steamship Sutherland was torpedoed nrri
mink In the Mediterranean Monday. The crew was landed at Malta ycsterUay,
one sailor hnvlnir died of exposure In tho lifeboat.
GERMANS HOLD 320,000 SQUARE MILES OP ENEMY SOIL
AMSTERDAM, .Inn. 21. Tho German allies liavo captured ,320,000 PQiiaro
mllca of territory hIiico the war begnn, nccordlnp to tho estimates of military
cxpcrtH In Herlln.
The other captures by the German allies Include 3,000,000 prisoners, 10,000
guns, 40,000 maxims nnd HO.OOO rifles.
PRESIDENT'S ENVOY DUE IN PARIS TONIGHT
PARIS, Jan. 21. Colonel 13. M. House, tho special envoy of President
Wilson, who was reported to have boon lost "somewhere In France," has been
located. William G. Bharp, tho United States Ambassador, received a tele
gram from Colonel Houso snylnR be bad been held up nt Boulogne by rail
way congestion, but expected to reach Paris this evening.
Lanier I. Wlnslow, secretary of the American Kmlmssy nt Berlin, Is
to leave on Frldny evening for Switzerland to meet Colonel House and escort
him to Uorlln. Colonel House, It Is expected, will remnln there nbout n week.
CONSCRIPTION TO BE RUSHED
LONDON, Jnn. 21. The War Ofllco has already taken up tho work ot
forming tribunals which will hear pleas for exemption from compulsory mili
tary service under tho conscription bill, which passed through Us final stage,
In tho Houso of Commons Inst night.
Royal assent will be given to tho measure by King GcorBC. nnd It will
bo operative early next month.
Conference of leaders for tho Parliamentary Labor party, which was begun
last night, was continued today.
Tho effect of tho final passage of tho military service bill In Commons
has been to Increase the strength" of tho Asqultb ministry.
RICH MAN SHOT ON NEW YORK STREET IN DAYLIGHT
NI2W YORK, Jnn. 21. In plnln view of scores of pedestrians, Frank
Lamonde, n wealthy Importer, wns shot in tho nudomen whllo walking through
Christie street today, Tho nssassln escaped. Lnmqndo was taken- -t-f
Goirvcrncur Hospital In a critical condition.
20,000 GERMAN TROOPS ON GALLIPOLI
LONDON, .Inn. 21. Telegraphing frorn Bucharest, Rumania, tho Times
correspondent says there are 20.000 Gormnn. "troops now on tho Gallipot! Penln
Ktila nnd that In nil tho town and villages the military nnd civil authorities re
German. Tho correspondent adds that tho displaced Turkish troops nro being
sent Into training for nn Invasion ot Egypt.
BRITISH DETAIN 620 BAGS OF AMERICAN MAIL
BERLIN. Jan. 21. The long delay in tho receipt of mails from tho United
States is explained by postal olllclals lis being duo to tho notion of tho British
authorities. Tho German olllclals suld tho British hnd seized 620 bags of mall
addressed to Holland from tho steamship Rotterdam, for tho purpose of weed
ing out all letters Intended to bo forwnrded to Germnny.
ACCUSED U. S. CONSUL QUITS EGYPT FOR ITALY
CAIRO. Egypt, Jan. 21. Olney Arnold, United Stntes Consul nt Cairo,
against whom charges wero filed with tho Stato Department by American
residents here, nmong them being the accusation of unneutral utterances, Is
now on his way to Italy on tho gunboat Des Moines. Ho is reported to be 11L
Egypt Is perfectly uulet under military rule. '
RUSSIAN FLOTILLA SINKS 163 TURK SHIPS
PETROGRAD, Jan. 21. A statement Issued by tho War Ofllco says: "On
tho Black Sen on Jnnunry 17 our torpedoboats raided the Anatolian coaBt, de
......,i.. iet ui.itinir vpmhpIh. 73 of which were loaded with various commodities.
Thirty men wero taken prisoners. Other vessels made their escape on our
approach."
ENGLAND MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN BREAD AND BEER
LONDON, Jan. 21. "Before long tho country may have to choose bctweea
bread nnd beer," said Sir Alfred A. Booth, chairman of the Gunard Company,
in nn Interview in citing the brewing nnd distilling Industry as one that was
absorbing thq services ot the ships of the country on a gigantic scale, Th
net results of this, he suld, was a decrease In national efficiency.
BRITISH DENY SUPERIORITY OF GERMAN AEROS
LONDON, Jan. 21, Tho assertion in tho British press that the German
aerial service surpabses that of the British was denied by Harold J. Tennant.
larllamentary Under Secretary for "War, In the House of Commons, The Ger
mans fight on tho defensive, nnd to this workhe new Fokker monoplanes are
well adapted, the Under Secretary explained, but are Incapable of making lomj
illghts. If tho Germans went behind the British lines they would meet machine
quite equal to tho Kokker,
U. S. WARSHIP TO CONVOY RELIEF SHIP TO TURKEY
NEW YOlUv, Jan. 21, If the Vasllefs Constantlnos leaves New Vork Won
day she will have on board eight American missionaries bound for Turkey. Th
Greek steamship will be met at Piraeus by tho U. S. S. Des Moines and tho eight
members of the party, with thousands of dollars' worth of Red Cross relief sup
plies, will be taken direct to Beirut. Permission to have the Des Moines ?noe4
the Greek steamship has been granted by the State Department. Doctor Barton,
of the Red Cross, says that If necessary a warsnip win oe ootainea lor me car
trip. This may be necessary in case war Is declared between the Allies and
Greece before the Constantlnos sails.
BRITISH TAKE COUPLE OFF AMERICAN SHIP .
NEW YORK, Jan. 21. Two passengers listed as Mr, and Mrs. M. Herman,'
of San Francisco, werS taken from the United Fruit liner Zactpa at Kingston,
Jamaica, by British authorities when the Zacapa touched at that port on Janu,
ary 10 en route from New York to Colon. The arrests were reported by officer
and passengers on tho steamship Almlrante that arrived in New York from Cols.
Che United Fruit liners are American vessels. Passengers on the AlmtwMrta
heard the couple were snt to the detention camp at Kingston. During tfcft c
Almlrante's stay in Kingston notice was given by port authorities for the Ant
time that no passengers iithout passports would be allowed shore leart
. 111'
PREMIER OKUMA'S ASSAILANT jgAUGHT
TOKIO. Jan. 21. Four young political agitators hayp been arrested for tin
recent attempt on the life of Count Okuma, tho Japanese Premier. The ring
leader ot the group, Umaturo Shlmomura, confessed that He threw tho booitw.
On January 12 two bombs were thrown at Cdunt Okuma's.AutQroobil j)
was returning from n dinner at tha Imperial Palace given in' honor ot frmrt
Duke Mlchailovltch ot Kussla. The Premier was not Injured.
in Tomorrow
NEWS.
Evening Ledger
)
