Hrr sjyy THE R
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 12
23.49.
f-Rain, Wed
JQpJ&J jir.
MEMBER ASSORTED PRESS
VOL.-18fNO. 203
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JANUARY 21, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
I BUZZAR
4 f
mtwtt
t & y ottk j
I
DISTRICT IS ISOLATED 81 UNPRECEDENTED
i
WORST SNOWFALL IN HISTORY OF SECT ON
PARALYZES 1
FFIG; ALL dill
0
i
All
Average of Eighteen Inches of Snow in Bisb ee and Surrounding Suburbs Plays Havoc
with General Business and Converts Streets and Trails Into Nearly Impassable Thorough
fares; Damage is Considerable in Community Due to the Wind, Rain and Snow; Tele
graph Service at Standstill; Telephones Crippled and General Hardships Are Result.
. Bisbee, Lowell, Warren, Don Luis and all adjacent suburbs of the District SNOW
BOUND ! It's a fact. A way back in the da ys when the coyotes and the bobcats were the
sole watchers of the weather in these parts, some such tempest of snow as imposed -a
thralldom of white during the past forty-eight hours may have gripped what is now the
Warren District. But the oldest pioneer in these parts cannot recall a storm equal to the
present.
It came silently but oppressively in the night. It worked a transformation which amazed
the thousands of residents of the district when they woke up yesterday and looked forth
upon a scene unparalleled locally. It was as if all the cotton crops of the South, gathering
up their stores of fluffiness for centuries past, spread them over the landscape in a league's
long, league's white blanket of 1 6-inch ply.
Best reports on the depth of the snowfall place it at 16 inches "on the level." In
some localities in the District there were drifts from three to four feet in depth. It is agreed
that the precipitation was evenly distributed throughout this section. Measurements taken
in Warren where better opportunity of accura cy prevailed because of the level stretches,
and made by Supt. Wm. B. Gohring of Calumet & Arizona proved that the fall was ap
proximately sixteen inches. ' . '
The Warren District was more amazed tha n stunned by this spectacular storm.- Old res
idents who had weathered many a blizzard fa irly gasped when they gazed out of doors.
Former storms have been accompanied with greater cojd but none had ever heaped the
snow so high in doorways, along 'sidewalks, over the roads' and, in fact, ever everything.
As a matter of fact, the absence of anything approaching extreme cold was a comforting
factor of the blizzard. As soon as the tail end of the storm departed shortly after daybreak
with a scattering of feathery snow, and the air cleared to admit sunshine, the day was
delightful from about waist high above the ground. From the waist down, however, it
was tr. slushiest mnst traffir-naralvzinff samrjle of storm, in the historv of the District.
To the army of toilers, the question upper most was how to get to work. To the legion
of children in the District, it was a winter's fe te day such as the boys and girls never dream
ed they would witness. Snowmen by the scor es were born in hundreds of yards. And who
ever conceived the possibility of securing mat erial for six foot snowmen in the Warren Dis
trict. Grownups, even, gave themselves over to this form of sport and several snow statues
with stumpy arms and coal for eyes greeted the onlookers along Main street, Naco road.
Brewer' Gulch and O. K. street.
Throughout the morning there were many impromptu snowball battles in the business
sections. There was time for such revels. Th ere was time for such revels because shoppers
could not reach the markets of trade.
. ,:The more serious aspects of the blizzard were treated with such good natured patience
as the occasion demanded. Electric lights were out -of service for a time; telephone
communication was crippled; telegraph wires were down in every direction and other simi
lar inconveniences made themselves felt.
The heroic work of crews and bosses on the Bisbee-Warren Street Railway saved the sit
uation from what seemed an inevitable disaster. Residents of Warren and Upper Tomb
stone Canyon could scarcely believe their eyes when they saw the cars ploughing their way
through the snow-encompassed thoroughfares. Warren workers with duties to perform
in Bisbee reported much loss of time. This was also the case with Tombstone Canyon res
idents. Another surprising feature of the blizzard developments was the successful efforts
of the mines to get their morning shift. Near ly 75 per cent of the men of the Copper Queen
C & A, and Shattuck mines were on hand sho rtly after 9 o'clock.
A deplorable result of the blizzard was the damage done to trees and shrubbery. The
burden of snow brought down entire trees in some sections and everywhere the ground
was strewn with broken branches.
Splendid work on the part of crews employed by the Bisbee Improvement Company,
the Mountain States Telephone Company, an d the Western Union Company prevented ac
cident or death to persons who might have suffered from contact with broken wires.
Another surprising development under the extraordinary conditions prevailing was the
clearing of Main Street and Brewery Gulch. These thoroughfares were made passable
within a comparatively short time following organization of the forces called upon to dig
Bisbee out of the Blizzard.
Douglas Troubles.
Reports brought to Bisbee yesterday by Harry Raber, district wire chief of the Mountain
States Telephone and Telegraph Company indicate that, though there was a lighter fall of
snow there than in Bisbee, the damage to certain interests was considerably greater.
The telephone company, besides losing a great number of poles and wires between Bisbee
and Douglas, suffered great loss in the latter city, itself. In the downtown district the
snow broke the arms on the 'phone poles and in a number of instances, allowed cables, con
taining a large number of lines to go to the ground. It. is said that there is only eight
inches of snow in the smelter town. Owing to a complete absence of communication lit
tle could be learned of other damage to the city.
Local-'Pho ne Troubles.
The telephone company was harder hit than any other organization in the District.
About one-fourth of the total number of phones in the entire District were rendered useless
by the wind, rain and snow. Manager Gunnison state yesterday that it would be fully
two weeks before the entire system is fully repaired, though he hopes to give temporary
service before that time.
It is stated the loss of the company, including the loss to its long distance lines will ap
proximate $1 0,000 in this section of the state. On all sides of Bisbee the 'phone communi
cation has been entirely annulled. Over the divide the poles are down and approximate
ly four feet of snow prevents linemen from getting to the seat of trouble.
Between Douglas and Bisbee the same trouble exists. It is not gnown to what extent
the line is hurt but that there will be considerable work and expense in repairing it is cer
tain. (Continued on Page Tv. o.
AMERICANS MURDERED IN COLD BLOOD BY MEXICAN BANDITS
. 1 1
PRAISES AND
BLAMES THE
TEUTONS
11 TALK
Theodore Roosevelt Makes
Many Sided Speech Before
National Conference on the
Americanization.
"FEAR GOD AND TAKE
YOUR OWN PART
The above photograph, takn at the Cuoihuiriachic mines in Mexico, shows nine of seventeen Americans
d-acwii from a train kihI slain by bandit.s near Santa Ysabel early last week. The picture is the property
cf Charles Truax, Jr., of Chii-ago, chief auditor of the mining company. At the extreme left is shown Charles
K. Watson, gc-ncial manaser of the mines, a former Chicagoan. He was described by Colonel Sanborn of the
First infantry as "ten -wildcats in one."
(GREAT BENEFIT
FROM RECORD :
mm i
"POWELL GUILTY."
F. P. Cruice, Santa Fe Railroad
Official, Takes Optimistic
View; Arizona Railroads'
Not Much Effected. I
Who said, "Boo:"?
Wednesday nicrning's Review, un
der a Tombstone dateline of January
IS,' carried the following:
"The case of the State vs Walter
Powell, charged with the murdeii
of John Braziel H Bisbee, was
given to the jury about 10:30
THIS MORNING. The testimony
was concluded last evening and
the intsructions given to the jury
this morning. The jury, aftsr be
ing out some time, reported that
they had reached a verdict which
was murder in the second degree.
He was SENTENCED by the
court to serve from tin years to
life."
SEVENTEEN ACTS
OF
Condemn's Germany's Disre
gard for Humane Obliga
tions and Praises Country
for its Efficiency.
PHILADELPHIA. Jan. 20. With
denunciation of what he termed Ger
many's "cynical disregard cf the obli
gations of international humanity" on
the one hand and with high praises
for Germa.i "national efficiency" and
care for its workers on the other.
(Theodore Roosevelt delivered the
principal address beore the National
Cojference of Americanization here
j tonight. The meeting was held In th
Metropolitan Opera House and was
j part of a two-day's session, at which
I problems of immigration were con
j siderfd.
Under the. theme of "Fear God and
j Take Your Owj Part", Colom-I Roose
I velt touched a wide range of diious
j sion. He appealed to America to ful
i fill her promises of liberty and equal
opportunity to the people who come
from foreign lands, declaring that to
Carnegie Hero Fund Commis
sion Meets and. Makes the; be the first essential 1j transforming
Awards for Acts of Bravery Jthem into desirable citizens. Germany
riii-;ny tha Pa Y nau- n? s31"- Pveu mat an autocratic
and other parts of the country, there
appeared the following:
"Powell Guilty."
"TOMBSTONE, Jan. 20. The
jury which heard the trial of..
Walter Powell, chargpd with
killing John liraziel, in Bisbee
last year, YESTERDAY brought
in a verdict of guilty and Powell
is LIABLE to a sentence of from
10 years to life imprisonment.
The killing occurred in Bisbee,
both parties colored, over a dispute
about "5 cents which passed
ha.uls'in a poker game."
".!nt it awful, Mabel?" ,
E. P. Cruice of Prescott. assistant
goncral freight and passenger agent
of the Kant? Fe railroad, arrived yes
terday in Bisbee for his first visit to
the Warren District in a period of
three years. He was able to give some
intcrfsting facts concerning the slorm .
and its effects in various sections of
Arizona and California. He said: j
"The precipitation all over Arizona
has been heavier than for many years. !
When I left Phoenix last night the
water was going over the Roosevelt
dam with a depth of more than ten
fort. The Salt and Gila rivers are ex-
tremely hieh. Railroads in Arizona
an? not much effected but. in Califor
nia, all railroad and electric lines from
the Srn P.ernardino mountains to the
coast lire out of commission or were,'
Tuesday, when I last had direct kno.v-'
lertge of the ::jtuat'on.
"Troiitle on the Southern Pari tic.
Santa Fe and Salt I.ake linos is all
west of the San Bernardino mountains.;
iKvprything that reaches Arizona is
moving but, on Tuesday, nothing was
( being moved from the terminals in
! California. ' i
j "There was snow in Prescott. Satur- '.
Jd.iy. and it rained Sunday, generally,
all over the Southwest country. As I
jsnid, railroads in Arizona were not'
I had a fine chance Minor P.hm tn Ri.ko. tnm
EI Paso. It was Feared He
Had Been in the Terrible
American Massacre.
PITTSBURG, Pa., Jan. 20. At the,
Yesterday afternoon, with all wires twelfth annual meeting of the Carne-
down between Bisbee and Tombstone,
had.
government can take care of its work
ing classes and it - business interests
: at the same time and the aim ofn the
United states should be to be demon
strate that a democracy could accom
plish the same things.
Military training starting in the
high schools of the country, greater
governmental control over corpora
tions a ..i i ; i-.... : - i ., . . AJ.
I u i u i , v in, - ,,,, v . in. i u,.,' uvu. a ii. 1 1 rv i in ir ii. i. pi.ic t 11-
I lost their lives, and to the dependants trol. together with federal supervision
(of four of these, pensions aggregating and encouragement of the manufec
'$1,920 a year were granted: to the de- tre of munitions were other questions
j pendants of four of the others whO 'urS"J by the speaker.
Most their lives, snms totaling $3,000! ",n a bo,k which has long been a
in he annliert snhierl (n tho Hirwi.m favorite in our family one of the
gie Hero Fund Commission here today
seventeen acts of heroism were recog-,
!
nized. In four cases silver medals,
were awarded: in thirteen cases
bronze medals. Nine of the heroes
of the Commission, in various ways,
1 characters sums up the duty of man
1
TOTRE
seriously effected.
' .FU... , . . (.llltl i !.- .Ml IH,. II P nil. II j
Prescott to Barstow. ('a!., and back, j
Traffic conditions were favorable be
tween those places.
"Agricultural and livestock inlerests I
are groatlv benefitted by the soaking.
As n result, all the desert country will
produce abundant feed for herds of
sheep. Ranchers are greatly pleased."
Sneaking of industrial conditions.'
Cruice snid:
"While Bisbee is the most concen
trated copper mining district in the
Southwest, the northern counties are'
enjoying the greatest activities which
have, prnbnbly, over obtained in the
history of mining development."
Mr. Cruice mentioned Prescott, Je
rome, KincniJHi and Chloride as towns
enjoying splendid prosperity from
such activities.
INTERNATIONAL MERCANTILE
Afier ten days spent in EI Paso, dur
ing which time he narrowly missed
leaving for Chihuahua. John F. Metoalf
arrived in Bisbee yesterday. He stat
ed that Charles Townsend and Nick
Donovan would return to the District
today or tomorrow. ,
, Metoalf is roceiviner the congratula
tions of many of his friends here who.
at the time of the Santa Ysabel mass
acre, feared he was among those on
t tho fatal trip. The Bisbee man. how
ever, had not left EI Paso ' and was
going further south than where the
. murders occurred.
According to Metcalf. there appears i a locomotive struck them both.
.littlo likelihood of the northern Mexi
can mines opening before thirty or six
ty days. This is conditional, so he de-
TRFNTO.V N. J An order has
boon filed In Court of Chancery in re
coivorrhip proceedings of Internation
al Mercantile Marine Co. to allow In
tel national Navigation Co., until today
to fil claim for $4. HI. 722 ncainst In
ternational Mercantile .Marine Co.
slares, upon the elimination of the
handit problem in the state of Chihua
hua and Dnrango.
There are hundreds of American
n ining men in
of them have left for other parts of came distressed in deep water in
(Continued on Page 3) (Continued on page three)
were granted. In addition lo these
money grants. In one case the sum of
$2,000 was appropriated for education-!
al purposes, payments to be made as I
needed and approved: and in six cases
' n H' rt nl j airuMfTOtinv ClOA .... ....,.!,. '
n n (i i ,.' nK.ihnnii,s y t , " I nrir 1 1 ! n VI I
for other worthy purposes. Payments!
in these cases will not be made until I
jthe beneficiaries' plans for the use of
jthe awards have been approved- by the
Coniniission.
The four silver medals mere award
ed as follows:
Harold W. Snow of 742 Crandon
Ave., a private secretary, for attempt
ing to save Mollie Meredith, an aged
colored woman, from being killed by
a train at Jackson. Miss.. April 26. 1912
Snow sprang in front of a locomojive
to save the woman, but both were
struck. She died several months later
from her injuries, and Snow was so in
jured that the amputation of his leg
was necessary.
F. Ijiwrence Byrne, deceased, who
was an eleven-year-old school noy
died attempting to save William
Ward, a playmate, from drowning in a
pond at Philadelphia. May 21. 1915.
The medal is to be sent to his fithor
at 1715 South 5fith Street. Philadel
Melvin Hagen. deceased, who was
an eighteen-year-old farm hand., died
attempting to save Alma E. Summer
field from being run ove- hy a train nt
Canfir, Ore'.. Jan". 7."1!H. . He attempt
ed to rescue Miss Summortield from a
trestle, but before he could reach her
They
were hurled from the trestle and kill
ed. The medal is sent to Hagen's
father. Canby. Ore.
William D. Bard. Sr.. deceased, a
wire chief at Little Rook. Ark., died
ttetiiniiiiK tn save sixteen-year-old
Elsie Bussick from drowning at Ben-
El Paso though many, ton. Ark.. July 11. 1915. The girl b-
as beliig to "Fear God and take your
own part." " Col. Roosevent said.
"Surely it is just as good a motto for
a notion as for a man. We fear God
when we do justice to and demand
justice from the men within our own
! h vn I .i ra Wo ninet .1. it tn tho tl'.aV
and we must do it to the strong. We
must organize our social and indu
strial life so as to secure a reasonable
equality of opportunity for all men to
show the stuff that is in them and a
reasonable division among Miose en
gaged in industrial work of the re
ward for that industrial work.
"Out side of our own border we
. 'ist treat o ' r ".' ''"is as - -..sj.
tn be treat. -.1 Mi re'it-:. tudsirg e.uh
in any givt a ir:si hs we ourffk s;
ought to be judged, that is, by our
ronduct in that crisis. If we are
really devoted to a high ideal, we
must insofar as our strength permits
aid those who are wronged by others.
When we sit idly by when Belgium
is being overwhelmed and. rolling up
jour eyes, prattle with unctuous self-
' l . .1 J...
I rignieotisiiess aoour ine uin ui
neutrality, we show that we do not
really fear God: on the contrary, we
'show an odious fear of the devil and
a mean readiness to serve him."
The nation should, the colonel said,
be prepared to take its own part. A
country that cannot defend itself
often Ls as fertile a source of evil as
one which does wrong to others, he
said, continuing:
"Whatever may be the case in in
finitely remote future, at present no
people ran render very great service
to humanity unless as a people they
feel an intense sense of national co
hesion and solidarity. The man who
loves other nations as much as he
does his own country stands on a par
with a man who loves other women
as much as he does his own wife. The
United States can accomplish little
for mankind save insofar as within
the (its borders it develops an Intense
(Continued on Page Four)
