ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TIIIUTV-SEYENTH YE
Vol . I'XI.IX. No. 21.
Alt.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1916,"
Pally Iijr Currier or Mall, Oa
Month. Hliwle Ooplc(k'
ROOSEVELT HIS
BOTH till
I
t
PRAISE TO GIVE
GERMAN PEOPL
E
Denounces "Cynical Disregard
of Obligations" but Praises
Efficiency of Nation in
Philadelphia Speech,
ADDRESS TAKES WIDE
RANGE OF DISCUSSION
Military Training Starting in
High Schools Favored; "Fear
God and Take Your Own
Part," Advocated as Motto,
THE WEATHER
AV EAT11 Ell FORECAST.
Denver, Jan. 20. New Mexico: Fri
day clearing, slightly colder; Saturday
fair.
LOCAL WTCATIIEIt Itl.roHT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
G p. tn, yesterday:
Maximum, 41 dog roes; minimum, 31
.degrees; range, 10 degrees; tempera
ture nt 6 t. 111., 30 degrees; youth
wind; cloudy; Know, .50 of nn Inch;
precipitation, .15 of an inch.
UTV HANK CLEAHINGS.
Yesterday
true that it cannot endure half Amer
ican and half foreign. The hyphen is
incompatible with patriotism.
"World pence must rest on the will
ingness of nations with courage, cool
foresight und readiness for self-sacrifices
to defend the fabric of interna
tional law. No nation can help in
securing an organized, peaceful and
justice-doing world community until
it is willing t0 run risks and make ef
forts to secure and maintain such a
community."
An efficient national government
system is the beet Instrument of In
dustrial and military preparedness,
the speaker said, and till the forces to
such an end must be under the regu
lation of a single power, the power of
the national government. There Is
nothing in the country to which to
point ns an example of military effi
ciency, he said, and tut regards tho
navy America was in good shape sev
en years ago, but since then Germany,
ahead
RT MOKNIM JOURNAL (RtCIAL, LURID WIMJ
Philadelphia, Jan. 20. With de
nunciation of what he termed Ger
many's "cynical disregard of tho obli
gations of International humanity" on
the one bund and with hiirh nralse for! England and Japan have gone
German "national efficiency" andiv,,,y ti,!ii- '""' w" ,lt flrst "'"PP'-d
care of Its workers on the other, Igo'ng ahead and for the last three
Theodore Hoosevelt delivered the prill-!'' nnvn ueen going uucuwaru.
!. 1 ufMreiui hefnrA the NiKinnni f.,n. -Colonel Roosevelt praised California
ferenco on Americanization here to-!'"- wlllt ho ""'d a genuine and sue
niffhf The nicetinir was held In 11, 'ccssful effort to secure industrial pros-
Jleiropolitan opera houso and was iP'Tily and also that approximate reus
part In a two-days session, at which nable division of the results of pros
problems of immigration were consul-i1"''"1'
SHARP DEBATE
PREC PITATED I
SENATE OVER THE
EUROPEAN
WAR
which
is both
can only come when
,,r(d mere is iiuin nn uro'iseu social on-
Uiidor the theme of "Fear God ami:"1''"'"1,1, ",d a ''i'"" '"' transla
Take Your Own Part." Colonel Rouse-;ti" practical men of that aroused
velt touched a wide range of discus-i'ial conscienco into efficient logis
sion. lie appealed to America to ful-jlatlvo and administrative action,
fill her promises of liberty and equal ! "" the whl'- h'ma',nguc is at
opportunity to the people who como!onKt nf R"'';,t an 'rl:' of 's,,cii'1 'J(N
fr,i,i r.,t-..irn li.mlu rWlr, rim' tlm t n ! VU IICC I11C11 1 US till
foreign
bo the first essential in transforming
them into desirable citizens. Ger
many had, he said, proved that the au
tocratic government can take care of
(Is working classes and its business in
terests at the same time and the aim I
of the t'niled .Stutcs should be lo deni-j
unstrute that a democracy could ac-j
complish the same things. j
.Military training .starling in the I
high schools of thn country, greater j
governmental control over corpora-j
tions aiuj fiMWlse lessened stale con-,
trol, together with federal supervision j
and encouragement of the manufac.-:
tare of munitions were other questions'
urged by the speaker.
Tuko Your Own Part.
"In a book which has long been a
favorite In our family one of the char
acters sums up the duty of man as
being to 'Fear God und take your own
part,"' Colonel Itoosevclt said. "Sure-j
y it is just as good a motto for a na-j
tion as for 11, man. We fear God whenj
wo do justice to und demand justice J
from tho men within our own borders. )
We must do it lo the weak and we
must do it to the strong. We must
organize our social and industrial life
Co as to secure a reasonable equality
of operation for all men to show the
stuff that is in them and a reasona
ble division unions those engaged in
(Continued on Vage bit:.)
BETHLEHEM CUTS
BIG MELON FOR
STOCKHOLDERS
Thirty Dollars a Share Divi
dend From Earnings of
1915 Is Declared on Com
mon,
Hoke Smith Favors Embargo
Against Shipment of Muni
tions Unless Great Britain
Yields at Once,
WILLIAMS REPLIES WITH
VERY UNPLEASANT FACTS
Mississippi Statesman Declares
Allies Will Not Be Bullied by
Army of 90,000 and Fourth
Class Navy,
IRV MORNINQ JOURNAL RRECIAL LtABflO WIRI)
Washington, Jan. 20. Issues aris
ing from the European war were with
out restraint in the senate today in
the warmest debate on Internationa!
questions since congress convened.
Great llrilain's interference with
American trade was characterized as
"perpetual robbery," Germany was
branded as "guilty of murder," pleas
wcif made for an embargo on muni
tions and food stuffs to England; and
charges were made and denied that
r.rltisli censors Intercepted American
mail to take advantage of trade se
crets. Possibility of war to enforce Ann r-
RUSSIANS ARE
MAKING BLOOD
1
ATTACKS UPON
AUSTRO-GERMANS
Vienna War Office Reports
Most Sanguinary Fighting,
on Border of Bessarabia
Slavs Are Repulsed,
GROUND NEAR TRENCHES
IS PILED WITH DEAD
torpedo bouts raided the Anatolia'i
coast, destroying- H.i miles Hailing ves
sels, seventy-three of which were
loaded with various eouiniodilles.
Thirty men were taken prisoners.
Other Vessels made their escape oil
our approach.
"Caucasus front our irocps con
tinue their pursuit mi the center ofj
the Turkish army. Despite the great
strength of the Turkish forces and
the excessively dilficnlt local condi
tions, our troops developed consider
able .success from their coup. The
enemy was thrown Inm his position
and retired, suffering severe losses,
not only In men but In war m.iteilal
of all kinds.
"According to lale particulars we
captured at the town olKoprukeul
near l'.r.oum, guns, munitions artil
lery and prisoners.
"The emperor, hearing of (his blow
against the Turks, has ordered his
sincere gratitmb' expressed to his
troops."
LIGHTING HI M Ml l
I1Y THE MONTENEGRINS
Koine, Jan. 20 (via London, I: .11 p.
in.) Fighting between Austria and
Montenegro has been resumed. Mon
tenegro notified Italy officially of this
REPORTED CAPTURE OF
FRANCISCO LACKS
VERIFICATION, BUT IS
E
E
Teutonic Lines Are Under Fire fuel today.
of Muscovites and Hand toij'il-'paharfo;:,,
Mnnrl FlplitillP k Font 1 1 IT! from the Montenegrin priiuier. The
, .0 c ,., , ,.rr ci vi..i..
" ll. ' tll.ll I. !"-
las and tin- Montenegrin government
have rejected all terms offeri d by
Austria and that fighting already lias
been resumed along the whole front.
King Nicholas remains with his
army to organise the defenses of l he
country.
of Gigantic Struggle,
MJV MOHNINO JOURNAL IFf CIA1. L IAEID WIND
Berlin, Jan. 20 (by Wireless to Sav
viile.) Increasingly violent fighting
on the Hessarablan frontier is an
nounced by the Vienna war office, but
i, is declared all the attacks of "U-iQNLY 3,000 TYPHUS
icior iiit.-T,ii H'uia i,,ie u-. n '
pulsed with heavy losses to them.
The statement says:
"The pew battle on the licssarablaii
frontier has Increased in violence. Te
nacious attacks by superior Hussion
forces between Toporoulz and Royun
were repulsed. The enemy several
times during the engagements entered
our trenched but were each time re
pulsed in hand to hand fighting with
heavy losses.
"At on,, place the .Sixth and Thir-
ican rights did not escape attention.
but the suggestion of war was conn-, tlel h Motived regiments made a vigor
terbaUinccd with appeal for calm de-ious
III SSI ANS
!RY MOANINS JOURNAL CRtCIAl LiARID WIRE
Xew York, Jan. 20 The Ilethlehem
Steel coiporation, which is said to
have received orders from the entente
allied governments for ordnance and
other war supplies amounting to more
than $200,0o0,00n, declared the first
dividend in its history today on the
common stock. The dividend amount.
industrial work of the reward for that ed to $30 a share, or a total ot auoiit
Industrial work. j $4,500,000 and is payable in quarterly
Outside of our own borders we liistaiimcnis.
iimisI fvcui ,,ttie,- tuitions iim we. wish to Uc till them Steel common
he treated in return, judging each in i for more than
a n- lfiei.M i.ritiu h u n . ,n meivi's oimlit ' tucular leader
t,. i... i,,.i,r,.,i ii,t iu hv one ei.nduct the stock market, and the demand for
stock, creaicu oy
has been
six months the spec
of the "war brides" in
in that crisis. If we are really devot- t"
ed to a high ideal, we must insofar as
our strength permits aid those who
are wronged by others. When wo sit
Idly by when Belgium is being over
whelmed and, rolling up our eyes,
prattle with unctions self-righteousness!
about llm duty of neutrality, we show
Hint we uo not really fear God; on tho
contrary, we show an odious fear of
the devil and a mean readiness to
nerve him."
The nation should, the colonel said,
l e prepared to take its own part. A
country that cannot defend itself of
ten is us fertile a sourco of evil as one
which does wrong to1 others, he said,
continuing;
"Whatever may be the. ea.se. in an
general knowl
..rlL'i. .,f the immense war orders on
tn tned bv the corporation, had ad
vanced the price more than twelve
limes Its quoted value a year ago.
Prior 'to tho outbreak of the war,
Ilethlehem Htecl was almost unknown
as an active stock. In 1807, the year
after the corporation's organization,
tho common stock sold as low as $8
a share. In 1914. before the war. its
low price was 29',L and its high 46.
In January, 1 1 5 . it was selling at
46 U, In October it has Jumped to
600. The next month It fell to 400
and since that time has ranged be
tween 4',0 and 4ST.
According to recent unofficial re
ports tho company earned not less
(than 100 Per cent on the it,.ugu.uuv
Infinitely remote future, at present no "' iu" ' 1 " - ' V"
beoplo can render very great service-0' mmon stock duung UU.
.. LJIJ1L ...!.. thevl Kniployes of the company a
to humanity unless as a people they!
feel an intense sense of national co
hesion and solidary. The man who
loves other nations as much ns he
does his own country stands on a par
with a man who loves other women
ns much as he does his own wife. The
'"lilted States can accomplish little for
niHiikind save Insofar ns within its
borders; it develops Intense spirit of
Americanism. The professors of ev
ery form of hyphenated Americanism
are as thoroughly the foes of thin
oiiutry as if they dwelled without its
borders and made active War against
il. Oncn ft was true, ns Lincoln said '
also will
share in Its prosperity, as a 10 per
cent increase in the wages of its un
' skilled labor wa simultaneously an
i iw.mti',.,1 with th. dividend.
Tho stock which opened at 471 to
day, a decline of 14 points, rose to
47S before the dividend had become
generally known, fell back to 460 and
Just before the close recovered to 47!l.
liberation to await justice, from cool
er heads, after belligerents hud re
covered from war madness.
Smllli lreclpilaleH Hclmte.
Debate was precipitated by Senator
Hoke Smith, of Georgia, who deliver
ed a long, prepared speech, denoune
lug Great llrilain's course in
up neutral commerce, and particular
ly her interference with cotton ship
ments to Germany. He proposed all
embargo aguinst England who, he
said, could not continue the war with
out nniiillons from this country nor
feed per people without food from
the United Suites and other neutral).
His vigorous assault upon England''!
attitude was endorsed by Senator
Ilorah, of Idaho, who said he was
willing to force respect by "action,
not by speech." to protect American
rights, but feared embargo legislation t Htripu
could not bo passed by congress.
Williams lieplies Sharply.
From Senator John Sharp Williams
the Georgia senator's utterances drew
a stirring reply with u declaration he
was not willing to go to war for mere
dollars nor to have the people of
"Dixie" plueed In an attitude of hold
ing property on a piano with human
life. Senator Williams said until the
issue of murder of American women j
and children on the high seas was
settled, be would not nag tho presi
dent tif the t'nited Stab's about prop
erty nor attempt to force settlement
for monetary loss of property from
war maddened people until he could
appeal to their cdlmer judgment when
war 'was ceased.
(corgi Senator Indignant.
Kor several hours the senat,. was
help in rapt attention by the frank
ness and vigor of tho speakers. The
discussion readied u climax when
Senator Smith, Indignunt at' the Inti
mation that he. would pluce commer
cialism over human life
counter-attack. The ground be
fore the trenches is covered w ith dend
KussiaiiH. On the fighting ground of
certain haltalions vseie counted as
ninny us 800 to 1,(K)0 bodies of Uus
Lians who had been killed.
"The front held hv Generals man
ner and llalliu is under the fire of
holding! Russian artillery.
"There have le en artillery duels In
islern Galioin."
j CASES JNMEX'IC0 CITY
(RV MORNINR JOURNAL SPRCIAL LIAtLU WiRR: I
! El Paso, Tex., Jan. "0. Audi can
jGarila, Mexican consul here, received'
'today a dispatch from Mexico City do- j
jelarlng that there were now onlyj
j 3,000 cases of typhus in the Mexican!
: capital and less than 1,000 eases In j
I'urhueu. ;
i "The viruleiuy of the disease Is,
steadily diminishing," says the nies
ipage, "and outside help is not needed.)
'The government will bo glad to uc
jcept all offers of medical supplies, but'
resident phyrleiatis are fully eonipc-i
flclit." !
IF NOTED LEADER IS TAKEN
EXECUTION AT JUAREZ IS
REQUEST OF COMMANDER
Story Comes From Different Sources That Trap Set by Three
Detachments of Carranza Men Closed on Pancho Near
Hearst Ranch and That He Is Being Brought to Chihua
hua, Along With Number of Bandits Who Participated
in Massacre of Foreigners at Santa Ysabel; Washing
ton Waits Impatiently for Confirmation or Denial; Con
stitutionalist Leaders Believe, if True, Northern Chief
tain Has Been Betrayed by His Own Soldiers, Who Arc
Deserting Him.
HOl'IlT is CAST I PON
e
III
I'OltTI It
a rn iu:
OE (iENEKAI. V1I.I.A
AMUR'S BILL
i:i Paso, Tex., Jan. I'd. The circumstantial report from Chl-
hunhuu City thut Krauelsco Villa, the military chieftain who has
' recently been declared a bandit by General I'urrnnzn, had been
captured near .Madera. Chihuahua, lacked official confirmation up to
M : a 0 o'clock tonight. Tin- silence un the part of the Mexican au-
IhorUies at Chihuahua City h nded to discount th report, ullhoufih
It came from sources the reliability ,,f which wiih demonstrated In
correct reports rcgiinllnn the massacre of (he eighteen foreigners
. ut Santa Ysabel mi January 10.
A.
4 $ S
HE POUT
GEXEKAI.
St'M'ESsES i
i'eUoKiuii (via" London, Jan. 2 ft,
!):I5 p. in.)-- The official communica
tion issued today read as follows:
"In the ri L'ioii of Dvlnsk our artil
lery successfully bormarded an enemy
column which approached Seboloss
berg from the west, on I be middle
we
stopped
u ults
un attempt
to approach
by
cur
STEP IN ROUSE!:
British Parliament
Great Enthusiasm
Manner in Which Compul
sory Measure Is Piloted,
weak inenv
trenches. l
"Northwest of Osernowltz, in (he,
region (if Karinczle, vvc captured the'
sector of an enemy position. In an
attempt to recapture the sector the I
enemy made five desperate counter-1
attacks nil of which were repulsed
with enormous enemy losses. j The military service bill passed
"On the lilack sen, on July I", our ; through (he committee of the house
of commons at II o'clock tonight amid
(By Morning Journal Special Lrasfdi Wire.)
EI. PAso, TEX., Jim. 20. I t iineisoo Villa tins h'cn captured at Hacienda
San Goroiilmo by t liriaixn I'orccH under General (innvi, tiocordlng to lrU
ale lelcgnuii from hlluiMlnia City reccUed liovc. No tHJnflrnin'hm liod been
Mccuml at I o'clock.
1 lie telegram cuine iioin the smiiu noimxv Hint Hist reported tHi niavaiiit
of Americans nt Santa Ysn'x I. ( nwi.os wn lujt wvwU'tl to lx bringing pHf
OIH'IN f '..rtl (Jnerroid lo ' lillmnlioil. '
Mexli nii ( oiihid Andre t.aicin Isle today coiU'lrnicil Ui oaptuir fd' (Mit
ral Villa. .His miIvIccm HlnUd dial (be tupliut; us rffuctnl by Maxlinhmo)
J Miiriliic.. who recently nNo capoiml (iem rnl Joso lUKlrlgue.. one of 1 Ilia k
gi'iiirtiN. A linkage) announcing Villa's capture also has been ntft'iHl nt live
AiiH'dcHii Sin 'lilog und Kcfinlug (sunpanv.
SIlOWS' Messaac Iioin l.lliiuilnia CKy, confirming reports of the cnptiirn' of Villa,
0! slated tbut a i iber of baiullls ulio pMi liclpa lit the San se inussacrc,
V 6 r ,tc ulsocaiiliircd and arc being - brought lo Clilhiialuia (Tty for exccnllon.
! ' oosiil l.iiii'iii eviilaln.'.l linn his .sitil'lrniiitiiiii of tile I'olHlIt ut th CM-
Summary or War
U',,1.., If. ...... I niirj ,f
- g . n l li l iiuiiiv Ijcii, 'ii niuriii
Il f lr iinritfiii 1 ... ....
ifCUd VI J. ColCJ UUU i the local government hoard, in a
't '
Violent al tacks by the Russians,
with strongly reinforced armies, ar
being launched against tho Austro-
Hungarians along the Ucssurabian
frontier. That the renewal of the of
fensive here Is of a sanguinary char
acter Is Indlcuted by the Austrian of
ficial report, which soys that between
Toporoutz and Hoyan, the Kusslans at
several places succeeded In entering
dramatically i the trenches of the Teutons and en-
WILL ESCORT COLONEL
HOUSE TO BERLIN
1ST MORN, HO JOURNAL RUCIAl LCARCO WIRf I
. . a . .11 4.,,-
!.,.. ,ki. ....,. n .iw ore IKTllll inn mm '" -
Li, r"J.r,r : ; Ja. ,i,.)-U.nier . Winslow secretary
'mi nee. ana nan toii. ,vuj v -
J Ol (MO tlliit l e.lii ,t-man".i a, ...-..,,
leaves on Friday evening (or Switzer
land, to meet Colonel Edward M.
Jlotise, President Wilson's emissary,
und escort bun to la rim.
will
The Day in Congressjh
Colonel H
aM! remain here
fi According
use, it is expected
about week.
lo Mr. Winslow, Colonel
coming to Perlin merely to
verhally President Wilson's
SENATE.
Senator Smith. Georgia, attacked
Illegal Oreut T'.ritain's hlucluide
nnnral commerce. "u"s ls
l' . i. ,i.,,i transmit
report on private ownership of water Vi"" ana
bower sites asked for by the .Sixty, Ambassudoi Oct!,!.
third congress. kfllUanl Tul.k Tow...
London, Jan. 2 a (X:;,;, p. m.i vi
l lied warships bombarded Dedeag-
Tuesdav. according to a Niloni-
IIOl'SE.
Naval and militarv affairs commit
lees continued hearings on national hatch
defense.
Heuring on literacy test section of
Purnett immigration bill, begun hy
Immigration committee. Iiegan debate
"n "further urgent deficiency'' bill.
ki tiisiiat h to neuters -Jen gram com
pany. The bombardment caused
considerable dainajr?: a train was de
stroyed and s- vcial s!"n houses we.r
set afire.
llliUired of Henator Williams:
"Decauso Germany has been guilty
of murder, must we concede the right
of perpetual robbery on the high seas
to Great Britain?"
Senator Hmith declared that con
gress should act, as the president could
do no more than write. He said he
did not want to go to war but insisted
that tho United States should have
the nerve to insist on its commercial
rights. The embargo to force Eng
land's hand. Senator Hmith suggested.
fhould be made effective within thirty
days unless Great Prltain yielded.
("old Facta Are Stated.
Senator Williams held the senate
for more than an hour on his reply.
The allies, he said, would not be bul
lied by the Pnited States "unless they
werc to stand still like a lot of whip
ped curs while warring for life, lib-
erty and independence ' and yield to
the congress of the Pulled States.
backed by an urmy of "0, 000 soldiers
and t lie fourth navy of the world."
He thought It sufficient for this gov
ernment to protest firmly against vio
lation of commercial rights and as
serted that he would not "kill one
human belnj; on the face of the glols
for mei'e property" unless after a bel
ligerent had calmed down il should
develop that American rights were
coldly and deliberately defied.
Senator Smith in his response to
Senator Williams declared that the
people of the south were just as Con
cerned as other Americans over the
murder of Anicib an citizens but they
were also concerned over the destruc
tion of their property rights. Senator
Vardamnn, of .Mississippi, defended
the position of Senator Hmith, de
claring It was sustained by interna
tional law, l.y the president of the
t'nited States and secretary of state.
gaged the defenders in hand to hand
encounters.
To the northeast of CcrnowlU the
Russians claimed to have captured an
Austrian sector nnd to have repulsed
I five desperuie counter-attacks.
The Russian official communication
tells of a raid on the Pluck sea by
Russian torpedo boats, lli3 sailing ves
sels being destroyed along- the- Auna
tollan coast.
tine of Villa was based on i.noirMnl but reliable Information, llo lelcgrapbod
ut once t . ( lilbualiiiM Cll), asking Immediate official confirmation on tlu Mirl
I of GcihtiiI ,1 ii'lnlo Trcviuo. the military chief of (Ni nortliom slates.
' At ll.e s'.me lime, il in.-sNige whs picparcl lo lm filed in lc Ctent of
RV MORNING JOURNAL RPKCIAL LIAIRD WIHB) 1 fol llllll llll 1 1 HIS I lllll, iei ! illg lll'lt Vllhl II" HCIIt () JllUI'tV. to M' CVCCUUnI
London, Jan. iO (11:58 p. m.) j al the r ice truck. This mcje'njio was prepared ut Iho office of Gemini Gabriel
(ii vlra, comiuaml'.ulc ut .inure, vtl.o staled Hint lie had i-etsivetl nollilng
official concerning the cuplin'c ol ibc outlaw clilcfyiln. lluclcmla San (cr
oiil'im I.H on (be In ki it, l.i of i lie Hearst properly iiannyl Tho llabricom raiicJi,
lieur the railroad station of Sail 'looms, soiitJicaM of Madra.
lU'P'U ts Kti IkiI berc Indicated (lutt llbi bad been liemmed in a trlangbi
formed In the mouiili.in.-i. ( oloiu I Xaxlntlano Maniucjc was on Ibc southwest
point, inar( bu; iitiin Mailciu, oloucl .Iomi Alcy hkIo was cUishig Ui from tho
nortliwc-t, wblle (.em nil ( avnyo'i advanced from (lie mouIIkiisI.
speech closing the dlwcusaion, said he
desired to remove the Impression that
under this bill the government ns !
creating u great monster in the form j
of a military machine which would
grali all coming within lis scope. !
There was no intention that the War !
office should uc( with undue severity,
but, on the contrary, it Intended l,i
maintain the present system uluioKt I
Identical, but giving it a statutory!
position, il hitherto hud not occupied. I
Phillip Siiovvdcn, (he socialist mem- I
her for lilackburne, speaking as an
opponent of the bill, paid u warm '
tribute to (he generous Way the bill
bad been pill (ed through the house
by Andrew Hollar Ijiw and ll r. Long.
.Mr. lituiar Law then expressed the
giuti'tul thanks of himself and Mr
CAPTURE OF VILLA
WASHINGTON WAITS
! EOlt .NEWS OF VILLA
DECLARED A FAKE
Jiihl as the Journal wa
o press tile following bull,
received :
g"lng
tin
added
that be had never km ii a bill which
might so easily have led to passionate
heated debute puss lliroilKli Hi
with greater skill or moir
try manner. He tlioiigbi that Prem
ier Asiiiith bud never shown greater
to
In th" Caucasus, the Turks, accord-1 Long to all sections for till
ing to Pclrograd, were thrown from shown in committee,
their positions in the center of the1 John liillun, nationalist
j long front, suffering heavy losses.
In addition to 1 1 1 , . usual artillery
and mining operations on Hie western
line In Franc and llelgiom, the P.rit
Ish have essayed an infantry atlai k
against (he Germans to the north of
Krelingheiin. Perlin reports that the I skill (ban In leaving Its condui t
attack was put down. .Mr. Lung and Mr. Itonar l.uw.
Announcement Is made in Hie Hrit-1 "- 1
ish house of commons that the ISrit- j GALLI P0LI F IASCO
.n nt """"h "I' til." ihi ir un
ify to th relief of Kut-cl-Amarn is
I in close touch with the Turks al Km-
sen, seven miles fium IvUI-ol-Amar.i
This region iloubtlesn soon will be the
scene of a big battle between the re
lief column and the Pritlsh hemmed
in at Kui-el-Aaniuru, und the otto
man forces.
Although it has been officially an
nounced that: fighting had been re-
Chihuahua City, Ian. 2 I
General Luis I .errcra, in su
preme command of the Car-
resira'iid ranza troops here, late tonight
flatly denied the truth of the
report of the capture of Gen-
' 'orJ lit,. Sin C.omnL
COIICllla- I V IHU HI lliv- JUO VJV.IUII
imo ranch. T he report had
jbcen persistent all day.
; "All is quiet in Chihuahua
n I I..." i rr
INQUIRY POSTPONED V1 Y.J'iT
ivino and nis siau leu tonighl
Washington, Jan. JO. Reports from
the border that General Villa had been
captured were hear.l with eager In
tercut tonight in official ulid diplo
matic circles, but up to a late hour
tuiilgbt no official Information on tho
subicct hud come to either the elate
department or the Mexican embassy.
At (lie embassy It was staled that if
was I the capture took place today, prob
I ably no report would be received from
lb,, military commander at Chihuahua
before tomorrow. While not disposed
to accept unofficial news tho Mexican
officials hail their hopes amused by
the press dispatches and promptly tel.
egra plied Chihuahua for Immediate
advices.
Il was pointed out that It wun en
tirely probable that Villa bad been"
Im ti ayi d by some of his own followers
who have been deserting him by the
wholesale since the surrender of Ilia
main army in Chihuahua.
Even though lie lias been retvarded
recently only as u troublesome und
a dangerous factor, (lie removal of
Villa from the Mexican situation will
be looked upon here as a long step
by Cariaii'.a toward coloring peacp.
IRy MVPNINR JOIIRNAI. HPFCIAL LtARIO WIRRI j f I f t
Loudon, Jan. in (3:15 p. it;. , at 0 O cloCK lor tllC SOUtll.
There will be no lii'tuiry at present!
into the Impulat ioiiM upon Kritb-lil
commanders at Gullio!j contained mi
General Ian Hamilton's dispatch on:
the lam ling at Suvla bay. Iteplvinit in
(he house of commons to John Red-i
RUSSIANS DEFEAT
PERSIAN REBEL
BAND
sinned between the Austrians and ) moiid. w ho urged un investigation,
Montenegrins no news concerning Hie premier Asiiiilli said that the (jovein
deluils ,,f the new operations hnKjmcnt had declared ( to be Imprai lie-j
come through. Kitiif .Nicholas Is d -;able under I'l'cS' nt eondilloiiM iim the1
Cold on AlUNkan Cout.
Seward, Alaska, Jan. 20. The cold
et weather nine December 31, 1912.
prevails here with temperature 1 de
gree below zero and the north wind
blowing t't to ii miles an hour. An
unprecedented cold wave is reported
all along the, coast.
clared to be at Podgoritzu with
t roops.
The military service bill has iis-! late
ed through Hie committee ,,f the bouse
of commons after lPini? s,, amen, led j
as to meet with the approval of some l
of those originally opposed to It. I
Emperor William has returned to;
Germany after a visit to the Halkans.
Col. K. M. House, president Wil
son's personal representative, after
having conferred with pritlsh offle
ials, presumably on Great Britain' uc
tion with respect to American trade
anad mulls, has departed from Lon
don for Paris to confer with the
French officials.
bls examination
;senibling of
tr MORNIN'1 JOURNAL URlLML LtA.lO WHt
London. Jan. LIO CCilT p. m l A
K, uter ditpal'li from Teheran sav
tliat a llusMiiii eoluinii has eomt'lere-
by a tribunal and the as-ll. defeated a band of a thousand reb.
witiiesses would neeessi- ,1s wbieb was terrorizing the people
tb, withdrawal of too manv of-lin Hie l.'io-.ell and p.ecbi districts ll'ei-
flccrs re,Uireil on the field but Ihul'si.'.l and I In -eat eneii the i omuioiii a
everythiii(!f was beiuy done to assure I ions of the ltus;.ian evpeditiouarv
an adeiiiiale liuiuiry In due course. : fun is. The Russians secured manv
! nri'i'iici's and Impoi laiit lioilv .
oii-ro t rxlcrgoes opi'iuiioii.
Kansas City, Jan. jn. Miguel An
tonio Otero, former Kovernor of New
Mexico, was operated on at a local
hospital today for un affection of tin
nose. His physicians and hospital at
tendants said the operation was not
of a serious character and Hint Mr.
(tero would return to his home in
Santa Ee, N. M., goon.
The
la.ll-,1
boimil
opera
ion u
lilloUS
is iliriiciilt
lo.'i'cli hv
GERMAN EMPEROR PAYS
VISIT TO BELGRADE
IR MORN l MR JOURNAL RPfClL tIARIO WIRR
Merlin. .Ian. :u (by Wireless to Say
ville. ) I iiiler (lie iM adinrt. "German
l.'iuiiei or In Ilelgrade," the Overseas
News Atuey here today gave uiit the
a ml
sin
passes.
Senator ,1, illusion Injured.
Washington, Jan. 2. Senator
Johnson, of South liakota, Is confined
lo his home today by In lories from
falling downstairs. Severn! ribs ure
believed to be broken.
following dispatch:
".Since (lie days of Batbariissa, who
on a crusade to the Holy Land, passed
in review of more than 100,000 Ger
man Kniniils in llelKtade, iio German
( iiiO' i or ,-et foot in LelLiiade s citadel
until today when the German emper
or arrived ih, re. The weather was
splendid an, I his majesty was greeted
by an Aiistii. -Hungarian company of
honor ami by the strains of military
music Mini tiie bom. lug ol" cannon.
"The cinpi r' r inspected the new
railroad Inidge and then among ihn
fe-tivily-clud population rode to tho
excursion resort of Hallnuigdun.
"The emperor later passed in review'
the German troops who effected it
passaKe of the Danube. He addressed
the soldiers, thanking and praising
i hem for their exploits and personally
delivered iron croswes to thq men."
