Official
Newspaper of
Olympia
VOL.LV. NO. 44
YELM FARMERS FIGHT
STONE-WEBSTER SUIT
ASSERT THAT SIOO,OOO A\l) FIVE
YEARS' WORK WILL RE LOST
BY GRANTING INJUNCTION.
Claiming that now, after they have
been working for five years, have
spent more than SIOO,OOO, are ready
to irrigate 3,300 acres and expect
to extend their system this year to
water 30,000 acres more, the Wash
ington Water Power company, after
standing by and letting them spend
their money, are trying to block their
project, the farmers of the Yelm
district who have financed and built
the Yelm irrigation project, filed
answer in the local superior court
this week to the suit for injunction
brought by the Washington Water
Power company, a subsidiary of Stone
& Webster, generally known as the
"water power trust." Attorney P.
M. Troy, of Troy & Sturdevant, repre
sents the Yelm farmers.
The power company claims to own
land along the Nisqually river below
the intake of the Yelm ditch upon
which it proposed to erect an electric
plant and for which it claims prior
water rights, and seeks an injunction
to prevent the diversion of the water
of the Nisqually river into the Irriga
tion ditch. The Yelm farmers, in their
complaint, allege that this is but a
"paper project," that the Stone-Web
ster concern has never done a thing
toward developing It, that they ob
tained their water right first, built
their ditch and laterals to water
3,300 acres already under contract,
and that they plan to extend the ditch
this summer toward Olympia tj serve
30,000 acres more.
The big irrigation project, under
taken and financed by the Yelm
farmers themselves, Is the first one
In this part of Western Washington,
and follows the idea of the big ditch
on Sequim prairie in Clallam county,
which changed a barren prairie into
a most fruitful district in which there
has never been a crop failure. From
the time the local farmers started
work on their big ditch it has been
referred to generally as one of the
most important projects undertaken
to develop the agricultural resources
of this county.
If the Stone-Webster concern suc
ceeds in obtaining an injunction it
will mean that the Yelm farmers will
lose not only five years' work but
more than SIOO,OOO they have spent
on the project, while the co-operative
effort to make the big Yelm prairie
and adjoining prairies more product
ive through irrigation will be blocked.
CAPITOL BONDS SOLD TO
STATE SANK STNDIGATE
Temple of JnstJc« to Re Finished This
Year and High School
Site Bought.
Subject to a supreme court de
cision as to the validity of the issue,
$1,500,000 of the authorised $4,000,-
000 of bonds against the capltol land
grant weer sold by the capitol com
mission Tuesday to the State of
Washington bank syndicate at $96.72
on SIOO, with interest at 4 1-2 per
cent. If the issue is declared legal,
as is expected, the proceeds of the
sale, amounting to $1,457,800, will
be used to complete the Temple of j
Justice, at a cost estimated at any
where from $300,000 to $500,000, to
acquire additional property, and to;
repay the sums borriwed from the
state general fund.
Two bids were received, the one
accepted and the other from the Dex
ter Horton National bank of Seattle
and the Illinois Trust & Savings bank,
the latter's bid being $96.51 with
per cent interest. Various details of
the bank syndicate's bid made it the
more attractive. In the syndicate are
banks in Seattle, Spokane, Tacoma,
Everett, Bellingham, Walla Walla,
Ellensburg, Hoquiam, Bremerton,
Wenatchee, Colfax and Davenport.
The bonds may be redeemed at any
time after five years, 1,000 are to be
issued in series of SSOO each and
1,000 of SI,OOO each. Interest is to
be paid semi-annually. On the basis
of paying 4 1-2 per cent on $96.72,
the commission figures that if the
bonds were sold for SIOO interest
would be 4.92 or 4.93. Not more
Washington jitaiitort
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860.
PROPOSES A CAR FERRY
Local Man Would Transfer Freight
Cars Between Olympia and
Shelton.
Stating that he expects to spend
"thousands of dollars in improve
ments," Arthur Weston requested
the city council Tuesday night to
assign to him the city's lease to the
harbor area tract it holds on the
waterfront, which it has been sub
leasing to him on the same terms it
pays the state. Weston proposes to
erect a locomotive crane to handle
sand and gravel and to organize a
transfer or car ferry company for
the towing of railroad cars from
Olympia to Shelton, bringing to this
city business that is now carried on
between Shelton and Tacoma.
Mayor Mottman, who opposed the
granting of Weston's request because
he said the city might want to build
a municipal dock on the site in the
next four or five years, referred the
proposal to the council committee on
public property, of which Council
man Draham is chairman. One im
portant feature of Weston's project
would be the construction of a dock
over which freight cars can be run
direct to barges.
If Weston is able to carry out his
plans the business will be handled in
conjunction with the Union Pacific's
new line just completed into the
city.
POTATO GLUB PLANS
MEETING SATURDAY
ALL FARMERS URGED TO AT
TEND, WHETHER THEY JOIN
ORGANIZATION OR NOT.
Special request that every farmer
in Thurston county interested in the
growing of spuds attend the meeting
of the Potato club at the Chamber of
Commerce at 1 o'clock Saturday
afternoon, whether they intend or
want to join the club or not, was
made this week by Dr. P. H. Carlyon,
organizer, and the executive com
mittee. The meeting will be held
that of the Dairy association,
which is scheduled to meet later the
same afternoon.
The first meeting of the club early
in December aroused considerable
interest and authorized a committee
to draft a constitution and by-laws.
This committee, composed of H. P.
Briggs of Chamber's Prairie, John
Rogers of Pleasant Glade, and E. A.
Buck of Lacey, has held several meet
ings during the past few weeks, and
will submit a plan of organization at
Saturday's meeting. Permanent or
ganization will then be effected.
The Club's Plans.
The club proposes to organize the
potato growing business on a basis
which will put Thurston county spuds
to the front, by the purchase of bet
ter seed, the growing of a cleaner
crop, marketing on a co-operative
basis, and through discussions at the
regular meetings on soils, pests, and
other phases of the business. To do
this the club proposes to establish a
sorting and shipping warehouse in
this city, to which all potatoes grown
by members will be brought, sorted
and graded for shipping, so that a
uniform brand can be put on the
market. This, the club's promoters
think, as buyers learn that Thurston
county spuds are good spuds and the
club product standard, will create a
demand that will insure a market and
at an increased price.
The present marketing situation aa
to potatoes is such that too many
are grown for the local market and
not enough of one variety for ship
ment. What the club wants to do
is to organize the growing on a basis
v Continued on Page Five.
than 5 per cent can be paid.
When the funds from the sale are
made available the capitol commis
sion will rush the completion of the
Temple of Justice this year, and will
also purchase the property occupied
by the high school building and the
block in front of it on Main street.
The high school then, it is expected,
1 will be moved to the block on the
east side of Main opposite the present
site, and Olympia voters will prob
ably be asked to authorize a bond
issue for the construction of a new
building.
"Hew to the Line, Let the Chips Fall Where they May."
OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1916
VALUE OF COW-TESTING AND PURE BRED SIRES
HOW DAIRY ASSOCIATIONS IMPROVE HERDS, INCREASE
PRODUCTION, AND DOUBLE PROFITS —NEED FOR SUCH
ORGANIZATION IN THURSTON COUNTY—HOW WORK IS
CARRIED ON.
Acting Commissioner of the State Department of Agriculture.
I am going to discuss wth you the value of the cow itesting associa
tion and the pure bred sire, and before I get through I hope to prove
that both are indispensible adjuncts of any dairy farm and especially
those of Thurston ounty. * c
In 1884 the average butter production per cow in Denmark was 112
pounds a year, and the dairymen there were forced to make a study
of their cows in order to derive a living from them. This resulted in the
organization of a cow testing association in 1892 with a membership
of 14 farmers, who weighed the milk of each cow and sent samples of it to
a nearby creamery to be tested. In 1908 there were 530 cow-testing as
sociations and the average production of butter per cow for a year had
increased to 224 pounds, which figure is exactly twice the average pro
duction in 1884.
In 1897 German dairy farmers awoke to the possibilities of the cow
testing association and in 1909 that country was accredited with 207 such
organizations. Sweden, Norway, Finland, Holland, Russia and Scotland
som fell into line, with the result that in 1909 the total number of
associations in these eight countries was 1,815. Do not these figures
show positively that such associations are worthy of some considera
tion?
I want to read to you from Circular No. 179 of the United
States Bureau of Animal Industry, which gives a detailed record
of what a cow-testing association did for one man from 1899 to 1909, a
period of 10 years:
"The following table shows the improvement in a herd owned by
Mr. August Kinch at Beltaberga, Sweden: Mr. Kinch joined the cow
testing association in 1899. It will be noticed that he had 70 cows. The
f'rst year's testing revealed the fact that only 28 of them possessed suf
ficient merit to be deemed fit for breeding purposes, and the remainder
of the herd was disppsed of. The heifers of these 28 cows were raised
and added to the herd, which kept increasing in numbers until in the
seventh year it contained one more cow than in the first year. The
increased yields Bhown in this table were accomplished by the selection
of cows of large and economical production, and their progeny, combined
with the use of improved sires. Naturally, with increasing production,
the cows consumed more feed, something an owner can look at with
satisfaction when he sees, as in this case, a gradual increase in yield per
100 feed units (one Swedish feed unit equals 2.2 pounds mixed grain,
2.6 pounds dried beet pulp, 2.2 pounds gluten feed, 5.5 pounds straw, 2
nounds linseed cake, 13 to 22 pounds green clover, 1.8 pounds cottonseed
cake and 24 to 33 pounds turnips), and a correspondingly satisfactory
decrease in the cost of production. Assuming a cost of 2.6 cents for each
feed unit and a price of 30c per pound for butter, the extra clear profit
'rom 70 cows the last year was $2,549.40 more than it was the first year
when Mr. Kinch joined the cow-testing association. The cost of obtain
ing these records was less than $1 per cow, or less than S7O a year, and
issumlng that the cost of purchasing a good sire was offset by the increased
commercial value of the herd, it seems that an outlay of less than S7O a
year brought an income of $2,549.40."
In 10 years the records show that Mr. Kinch's herd increased its aver
age production of milk from 7,320 pounds to 11,399 pounds, or an aver
age of 4,079 pounds; the butter yield increased from 245 pounds to 421
pounds, or an increase of 176 pounds, and a decrease of 16.4 c in the cost
of producing 100 pounds of milk, which fell from 86c to 69c in the 10
years. This is only one instance of what a cow-testing association accom
plished, and if time permitted I could cite many others on record.
The first cow-testing association in the United States originated in
Fremont, Michigan, in 1905, and consisted of 31 members with 239 cows.
This association was named the IN waygo County Dairy Testing Associa
tion. Of the 31 original members only nine were still in the association
up to 1909, the places of those who dropped out being easily filled by
others. The following figures apply to the nine herds who were in the
association for four years:
1906—Number cows, 70; pounds milk, 5,802; fat test, 4.01; total
pounds butterfat, 232.7; value of fat per pound in cents, 23.5; total value
fat, $54.66; cost of roughage, $21.52; cost of grain, $11.71; total cost feed,
$33.23; profit, $21.43; returns for $1 expended, $1.64; feed cost per pound
fat, 14.3 cents; feed cost 100 pounds milk, 57.2 cents.
1907—Number cows, 85; pounds milk, 5,987; fat test, 4.03; total
pounds butterfat, 241.4; value of fat per pound in cents, 29 r .4; total value
fat, $71.02; cost of roughage, $25.59; cost of grain, $13.70; total cost feed,
$39.29; profit, $31.73; returns for $1 expended, $1.81; feed cost per
pound fas 16.3 cents; feed cost 100 pounds milk, 65.6 cents.
1908—Number cows, 86; pounds milk, 6,011; fat test, 4.29; total
pounds butterfat, 258.2; value of fat per pound in cents, 27.4; total value
fat, $70.70; cost of roughage, $24.97; cost of grain, $15.64; total cost feed,
$40.61; profit, $30.09; returns for $1 expended, $1.74; feed cost one pound
fat, 15.7 cents; feed cost 100 pounds milk, 67.6 cents.
1909—Number cows, 89; pounds milk, 6,426; fat test, 4.32; total
pounds butterfat, 277.6; value of fat per pound in cents, 31.2; total value
fat, $86.52; cost of roughage, $27.26; cost of grain, $16.44; total cost feed,
$43.70; profit, $42.82; returns for $1 expended, $1.98; feed cost one
pound fat, 15.7 cents; feed cost 100 pounds milk, 68.0 cents.
AVERAGE PROFIT DOUBLED.
As Mr. H. Rabild, who succeeded in getting this association under way,
writes:
"These figures show a continuous increase in the average produc
tion. The richness of the milk has also increased. The average profit
per cow has been doubled. Some of this increase in profit is partly ac
counted for by the increase in the price of butter fat, although feed prices
show an almost corresponding increase. In these calculations it has been
assumed that the value of the calf, skim milk and manure from each
cow would offset the cost of stabling, labor, and caring for her."
To cite another instance of "how the production and profit of a dairy
herd may be increased by testing the individual cows, disposing of the
poor producers, and putting better methods into practice," I quote Circular
No. 118 of the University of Illinois, which says:
"I desire to call your attention to the record of the herd of Mr. Charles
FOBS, of Cedarville county, which was tested by this station. The herd,
composed of 14 cows, the first year averaged 5,800 pounds of milk, con
taining 224 pounds of butterfat; the next year the herd of 12 cows
averaged 7,105 pounds of milk, with 260 pounds of butterfat; and 14 cows
the third year (1906) averaged 8,057 pounds of milk and 307 pounds of
butterfat. The greatest facts apparent at first sight are an average gain
of 2,257 pounds of milk and 83 pounds of butterfat per cow at the end
of the third year as compared with the records of the first year. This
means a gain of 97 pounds of butter per cow in a year's production, which
at the average price he received amounts to $24.25."
In 1910 there were 59 cow-testing associations in this country, and it
(Continued on Page 3.)
1!\ DR. H. T. GRAVES
CITES A 10-YEAR RECORD.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
COTTRELI HERE TUESDAY
State Grange Leader to Discuss
National Marketing and
Rural Credit.
C. R. Cottrell, executive commis-
sioner of the Washington State
Grange on national marketing and
rural credits, will discuss this sub
ject at an all-day meeting next Tues
day of the Grangers of the county
and other persons interested, accord
ing to an announcement made Thurs
day by L. L. Snow, master of the
Thurston County Pomona Grange.
The meeting will probably be held at
Rabeck's hall in this city.
Mr. Cottrell is conducting a state
wide campaign among the farmers to
arouse a demand that congress pro
vide for an adequate national mar
keting plan and a satisfactory rural
credit system. He will arrive in Olym
pia on the 10:15 train from Tacoma,
and the day's meeting is scheduled to
begin a half hour later.
All persons in the city and county
who are interested in the subject are
urged to attend the meeting, which
will be of particular interest to
farmers. Persons who attend are
requested to bring a basket lunch.
Mr. and Mrs. R. L. Blankenship
are rejoicing over the birth of a 10-
pound boy Monday night.
DAIRYMEN TO MEET
AGAIN ON SATURDAY
DR. H. T. GRAVES AND L. L. SNOW
TO GIVE TALKB—COW-TEST
-ING TO BE DISCUSSED.
With talks by Dr. H. T. Graves, act
ing commissioner of the state depart
ment of agriculture, and by L. L.
Snow, master of the Thurston County
Pomona Grange, the latter on "Silos,"
and with a general discussion of cow
testing planned, members of the
Thurston County Dairy association
will hold their regular semi-monthly
meeting at the Chamber of Commerce
Saturday afternoon, following the
meeting of the Potato club. Every
farmer interested in dairying is
urged to attend the meeting, hear the
addresses and Join in the discussion.
"The successful dairy farmer is
one who fully realizes that close at
tention to details is absolutely neces
sary," President Campbell said this
week in discussing the association's
plans and urging dairy farmers to
join in its work. "Getting the fine
points of the business down pat. One
of the most important details in con
nection with dairying is to know the
individual cow. Each cow must tell
the story of her usefulness by means
of tabulated records of the milk
scales, the Babcock tester, the value
of the feed consumed, and like
points.
"The cost per year per cow," he
said, with reference to cow-testing,
"Is $1.50, and in order to enable the
tester to make fair wages at the
business of testing he must have
about 500 rows to work on. That
gives him $750 a year or $62.60 a
month.
"In order to test 500 cows a month
he mußt test about 20 cows a day,
for there are only 26 working days in
a month. It can readily be seen
that a tester could not take In individ
ual herds of only two or five cows
and handle the necessary number,
unless the owners of herds that num
ber less than eight or 10 cows could
make such arrangements that the
tester could test two or three small
herds in one neighborhood the same
day, so that the number tested per
day would be brought up to the
amount required to insure him a fair
salary."
Will Not Appeal Bank Suit.
F. P. McKinney, receiver of the
defunct Olympia Bank & Trust com-
pany, stated this week that, because
of the expense involved, he had de
cided not to appeal from the decision
recently given by the federal district
court at Tacoma, rejecting certain
claims made by the receiver on assets
of the failed United States National
bank at Centralia. Stockholders of
the local institution, who intervened
in the receiver's suit, plan, however,
to file a motion for rehearing in the
district court.
Published I
Continuously I
! For 55 Years I
WHOLE NUMBER 2888
ADMITS EVIDENCE TO
PROVE COIISPIW
MITCHELL PERMITS TESTIMONY
IX GILLIES TRIAL COVERING
10 FALSE CLAIMS.
Holding that sufficient evidence
had been introduced by the state to
show at least a partial "guilty knowl
edge" on Gillies' part, Superior Judge
John R. Mitchell of the local court,
who Is hearing the trial of John F.
Gillies, deposed claim agent of the
industrial insurance commission, on
a charge of forgery alleged to have
been cminitted in connection with the
looting of that fund of some $17,000,
ruled Friday morning, after nearly
half a day's argument between op
posing counsel, that 16 other claims
alleged to bo fraudulent and which
Gillies as claim agent is alleged to
have passed as genuine, could be
introduced by the state as evidence
of conspiracy to loot the state in
which Gillies is involved.
The charge of falsifying public
records, upon which Gillies was first
arrested, having been dismissed, he
is being tried now on a charge of first
degree forgery, that he passed as
genuine claims he knew were fraudu
lent. Although this charge is based
on the spurious claim of one "Carl
Jackson," supposed to have been In
jured in road work in King county,
there are 16 other claims which
Judge Mitchell ruled could be intro
duced to show the system by which
the fund was looted. The decision
was considered quite a victory for the
prosecution, and, immediately upon
its being given, the state developed
from the testimony of C. E. Rippe,
deputy auditor of King county, that
the persons whose names appear on
the fraudulent claims as road super
visors or foremen, were never em
ployed by that county.
Jury Obtained Early.
Actual trial of the caae was begun
Tuesday morning, after just a little
more than a day had been occupied
In obtaining a Jury, with Attorney
General W. V. Tanner, Assistant John
M. Wilson and Prosecuting Attorney
George F. Yantis appearing for the
state and Attorney Thomas M. Vance
for the defendant. Only about half
of the state's witnesses have testified
so far, and it is expected that the
trial will not be closed until some
time next week. The jury which Is
hearing the case is composed of
D. C. Harmon, George Webber,"
Mrs. M. H. Ranney, Henry Richards,
L. J. Johnson, C. G. Miller, Mrs. G.
Continued on Page Five.
MIKE NEYLON QUITS US
SUPERVISOR-WEST WINS
Charles Window Succeeds in Mud
Bay District—Others
Reappointed.
Retirement of Mike Neylon volun
tarily as supervisor of Road District
No. 5, a position he has occupied
"mid sunshine and storm" for six
or seven years, came as quite a sur
prise generally this week, though
rumors had been current for some
time that Neylon would not seek re
appointment. When the commis
sioners met Tuesday to appoint super
visors for the year Neylon announced
his withdrawal, and Charles Wlnslow
was appointed in his place.
In District No. 6, the new one
created this year, Arthur G. West was
appointed supervisor over Jeff
Thompson after a lively contest in
the district and a heated argument
between delegations in the commis
sioners' office. He presented peti
tions bearing considerably more
names than his opponent's. The ap
pointment comes as no great sur
prise, as it had been generally ex
pected in spite of the fight carried
on by Thompson and his friends.
The contest againts West was the
only one that was made this year
over the appointment of supervisors,
Winslow being unopposed as succes
sor to Neylon, and T. C. Sleater being
reappointed in the first, A. B. Smith
in the second and George Sumption in
the third. Owing to the Illness of
Charles S. Cady of the fourth, the
appointment of a supervisor In that
district was held up temporarily at
the request of Commissioner Dodge.
