1916 H HHI
H W III
T"''I KEEPING THE LIOHTS BURNING ?5f ' W --SSfe BBIbI
St J THIS IS THD TIME OF THE YEAR WHEN THE HOME MER. gMh I JOwSSS A. 4fc . 4S BM
de. v CHANT IS INCLINED TO "LAY DOWN" ON THE OFFENSIVE (K II I Kfl) I lfcSRs SBSnll '! llrilT iBfflH
,cn THINKING BUSINESS AFTER THE HOLIDAYS IS GOING TO 7 y II II Ir2P'UP8l) II Jl I M H
Cn HE DULL ANYWAY. HUT HIS COMPETITOR IN THE BIG !StTtf2J Jy Ir lBM
; CITY NEVER LEARNED HOW TO LET UP IN THE NOBLE PHI ITirfll TTnCDIIPMrlw flfflTpl
' u ART OF ACCUMULATING TRADE. MERCHANTS SHOULD i rULITIOALLY, REPUBLICAN. H
KEEP THEIR LIGHTS BURNING THROUGH ADVERTISING ' '.ntcrcd n Pcrond Clas- Matter Juno 4 1916. at tho Postoffke nll'rl e. ttnh. I'ndcr the Act of Mnrch 3. 187 H
T 1 VOLUME 1; NUMBER 31. EVERY FRIDAY JANUARY 21, 1916 AbbS
. bbbbbb
J; BETTER TONE TO
STOCK MARKETS
98c .
1.98 sulcus or t vtti.i: srito(i to
,. ' IIKlltl.lt Dt'ltlNti IHK W I l.K.
9c 4 ,
V
Iteef steer Arc Setting Steady While
Prime Stuff l Celling Into u ( uimi
' It) Itwlf Itcctlpt Very fUlit Af-
ii r Siorin or Iiuit Tupmln--Hlfii
l iiimI I nml At Kttlr I Ittiirv.
98c ,,
; ' H i .irri spondonco The Sun.
' H ICANH H CITY. Mo . Jan 17 Cat
if BJj le nold stronger last week, beef
H grade fifteen to thirty cents higher,
V BJ and Mocker nnd feeder ten to twen
A BJ A.flvo cents higher. Itccelptit Mere
t BJ er light nfter Tuesday, storms In
. Y fl ' rferlng with railroad rrlce. Itc
l.ii) A fipu today arc thirteen thousand
G8c Bh v,ontl anJ tin re In n good market
y BB ' eef steer nrc setting steady, with no
A BJ T) topp (teem here, sate around
o- A IK " 25, ,",n" (np t',t nnJ rnoiit of the
I H tcl" nt 'T 60 t0 ' 0, ',rl,ne Hteeni
1 OR V H " Retting Into n class ti themselves,
A B nd woUlJ l,rlnB ,90 ," ,9C0
y H utditr cittle arc gaining Mrength
A H t iore rapidly than Meern An order
J. iH arr w,rp(' nn ''Astern killer thin
S,r ll inrnlng that he toutd I no good lna
B iw around it 55 it ltd reled lie
' BH ftruetloim tit liu. hut found It look
HB (0 to $fi 76 to git them extra good
lion worth 17 00 Veal cnlvm are
,, . i- Illng up to $10 SO nnd hca titlllx
0V SO ttllt SB i , $c SO ArrUnU from Iowa and
BB llmuiMitn uerc umiill todn iiro
dv for vou Bh eathvr acting ngulimt loading there
J J BB i hk r-teirn wiling at IB (0 to 17 S
BBj nd Ituteher town nnd helfom IB to to
BB 'n 7S Ktoikvrn and fmlem iwiM
linlf nnit BB llkl) todii iih few were lift III till
IBV u lant iok kihI lnijcrH got out
., BB irh I'rlreM on them were ttn to
AC SCVCfl 'MnU-fho iciiIk hlglur A train of
Vns OUt Oil H uole Colorndo erlliigH nnd Inrni
BB o 1d at 10 75 to 17 55 Colorado fxiN
i . BB lirwught 7 IS to 7 JO Three
ncu HUcn B H ,,f Colorado enrllngx wild at
BB '7 0S irom Olatlu Uinmr and Dilta
I UP to tht B 'I'ettlVet) A IiihiI of 1202'pound
jBB d nler from Itugo lirought $8 00
IBB nd Colorado tiwn enld nt IB 00 to
H , t.0 helfern 17 2S IiiiIIn S CO The
it WAS only H r anlmndle iountr had riulUiill
nllf n alinrf BB? vltlllllg here todtl) III CtlllHI of lillll
niynniionp lltli,er for loading
BB llogn culd fe ti tin lentri higher,
1 VCry UB- 9Hr -Ut tuiHe thouwiiul head Ohl-
ory much" flV MK" '""' " 1,SIV ru,l l,ni' arket re-
nrnr" ' B ' Tt( d Mtiuil), I. lit lomptlltlou Mooll
i . . . BB " l"l" "l U- to ten lentw Inn,
nrtcd Kin BB'ii 17 :o imik ioks to $7 is The
llCr fellow jB f'x """ l'",iilli that hui lliiilda
nnn nnrrvu B,c" ,ln" ru" ',N (ouriie, tint hlrongir
nun "vivu Hj ,.r(M nn, (Xlllfl outlit for frtHh
OntlCreu II BB rk and pork produit U ulde open,
for it YUU Bj ltd paikem (unnot tlmeeul tin Ir tic
K r for hogn, nnd tin market In irit p
,!, n,nN K upwnrdu Hteadll)
vnen inert nx Hhep umi iamiN houi ti.i. nrtir
ICIIIR flun? BE in of ttenkniiui nt the opt iilng, re
sllO looked tS ,'ltl thirteen thoimand head Pen
ituln BB f"' lnm'" I'rought 110 00, top turn
Halt. BB 7 00 Home medium wether drought
fljj 7 00, 11 lid earllngii IK. 76 Thn mil
Hid I enn't BE mou price IiihI wetk for good fid
Klng lamlis, flft)fotir to Hint) pomidn,
HR an I IS, ten double Helling at that
mnn Weft rP1. Diulem txpeit ii tmporar
Q reak In prkin, mpulall) If Northern
nmo From BJl olonulo IoiuIn frnl, although thut
il Vlio In BM" l"'' "nl r,"l,m ll,,,l "f frnlKh
U IIIC nian King enough of a nuppl to mute nn
Hfljl iipriimlou
you SCO I Hl '''o'l hiwriniiH n Might. tut to
Bv crllii r, hiigheMN TIioiiiimiii
vcr there." H
flH With the Iiih. of mil) nut of tin Ir
Bjnumlier, the tumt)fle ilk that w. re
hctl Helen BBjlilPIcd from Mnntuna nrrhed In
BU'rlce Wednmda night lit uliout 10
. BB' iloik, and Loimldirlng the long rail.
leil. hVC'ry Qr nd Joume) the liuto mude, wire In
Kt Mi Hint condition Kx.Hlurlff Iltn
BEr ThompNon of Kmiry count), who
T . .ti BBeuL to Halt Ijike Ult) to miet them,
JJICK, Ull HutatiM thnt noinuwliere hetween Ogden
BB nd 1 itrmlugton one of the nnlmulH
nd Ills (Its Bf,ll down and wan trampled to death
BB' Hm fellow h The dind animal wn
, , Bw rought here, howeMr, and Thonip-
1S no place Bm kii)ii that It will ho Nklnmd nnd
BB mounted In the lunt poKnlhlit manner,
. BB' ltd hii will nwnlt liiKtrnc IIiiiim from
' BBANiiHlilngtoii, 1) ( iu tu lu illxpiml
VWWWA BVf lnrge numlnrH of 1'rlie peole
C fSb iewed the nnlinuU on Thlirmlii)
J flBmornlng, and It waH aluo n krent nt
T 3 Hjiractlon for the Hchool dtlldren who
It J c BB rowded eagerl) around tho car to
" - 4 BBvet n good low, and the) proved to
JJ BB1 e the moHt niireclatlp Hpictatorx
Z BKl ate Thurmlu) the elk wnro loadid on
i BB agomi undir ThompKon'M mier talon
? BBnd wi;re hauled to Orangevlllt
, c BB1 It re the) will tie takin euro of and
cBJjfed nt Del I'tacnck'a ranch When
S NBjthe miow heglnii to dlmtppeur In tint
e Utah S D2arl "Pring unit It In poHatble for the
v, uiun. j nnlmaU to forage for themeleH the)
f BEV HI e turned Iooko In thu mountntini
WWWW Mb t of Orangevllle
- n Thompson mated to The Hun
c BMllUe here that It would lie a fine
' ' ' 'I Blllii If the yporumun of Carbon
a good f HP ,uily were to get tofcethcr und make
er Tho T BBirrnnenient to hae n number of
haa the 1 BJE 1U U'Ped In He na)s that the out
he) are Kl, ls not treat, hh about four hundred
handle T S,0Hr' will cover the expense of
ou get- X MR' rllU(l,, audi a herd hero thnt Ih now
u apend Bjf ' urani,evllle
T Bfc,Jul,n . I. lately emplo)id at
rf-v By'Ker an electrician, Iim accepted a
" V- Jp""lla' position with the Utnh l'uel
L......t BB mpaii) at Castle OaU and entered
BB poll hit duties last wotk
ONE VICTORY TO THE CREDIT OF THE BIRD.
1! WHO SAID WmWMIMW
M I NEVER. WWIM
m aCCOMPLISHED "I
VftN Li AND APPERSON HEAD THE"
UNITED STATES FDEL ORGANIZATION
C. W. Vnn Uiw of BoHton, IMiish., was elected piesidvnt of the
United Stnten Fuel company nnd affiliated Interests at a meeting
of the board of diicetors Sntmday, to succeed II L. Carpenter,
who tcndcicd his lcslKuation a little more than two weeks ago.
The bonrd of directors accepted the resignation of Mr. Cai penter
and tendered him a lcsolutlon exproHsitiK in the highest teims its
appreciation of the valuable seivicus leudered and of waim pei
sonal l egret at his retirement.
President Vnn Law is vice president of the United States
Smelting, Refining and Mining company and has had geneutl sup
ei vision of thu coal opciations of the company for seveial mouths.
Ho expects to remain in Utah until some time in Match and, while
he will devote a ceitain amount of his time to the af fails of the
fuel company, the executive charge of the coal concern nnd its
affiliations in Utnh will be placed in the hands of A. B. Appcrson,
who recently resigned as genet al superintendent of the Utnh lines
of the Denver and Rio Grande inilroad.
Mr. Carpenter, with his wife, plans to leao soon on a pleasure
trip to South America, which will occupy sccral months. After
the trip Mr. Carpentr will become a member of the staff of the
United States Smelting, Refining and Mining company in its East
ern operations.
President Van Law litis htul a wide and successful mining ex
pel lence. He gradunted from Cornell University in 189G as a
mechanical engineer, nnd for six years thereafter was engaged in
mining operations in Colorado. From there he went to Mexico to
take charge of some mining operations at Ciuinajuato. After
some very successful work there he became consulting engineer
of tho American Smelting and Refining company, with chaige of
all its mining operations in Mexico. His jurisdiction did not ex
tend to tho smelting operations of the company.
In 1909 he left the American Smelting and Refining company
to become manager of the Mexican properties of the United States
Smelting, Refining and Mining company. He was in direct chnigc
of all tho Mexican interests of the company, and spent the greater
patt of his time at the properties of tho Campania dc Renl del
Monte y Pachucn, which Is probably the largest silver producer in
the world.
In August, 1913, still retaining the management of the Mexi
can properties, he was moved to tho Boston office of the company
nnd later appointed vice president and general manager of the
United SUitcs Smelting, Refining and Mining Exploration com
pany, which litis under its charge nil Investigation and acquire
ment of new properties. A few months ago President Van Law
wiib also made ottu of the vice presidents of the parent compnny,
nnd in that capacity had in charge the conl Interests of the com
pany. Of the nineteen years spent in mining operations by President
Vnn Law, eleven years have been spent in Mexico among some of
the largest metal producers in the world. His experience not only
includes vailous phases of mining, but many interesting incidents
In connection with the i evolutions of the southern lepublic, of
which ho declines to talk for publication.
A6AINST C0NSCftlPTI0N "
I im-iiI Itt-otili ill Mal.es lull, to Will
limton (MUiiik.
WKI.I.I.NOTON. Jan 17 The
iltlitim of Wellington limit milled
In man meeting Wedmsda)
nlyht to discuss prepandness
conncrlptlou mid in forced mill
tar) training of school Imh '
W Ooodman of Priwexplnlned t
the subjeuts, after which ii ote
was vallid which was unanimous
against preparedness, innscrlp
Hon and military training It) a
unanimous ot it committee of
three was appointed b) the
chairman to draft and ilreulnte
n petition to be sent to tho Utah
senators and ropresc ninth m to
oppose all of there matters
The Campfiro Btrfs bVld nn Inter
estlng meeting Monday eenlug at the
home of Mlsitfaue fcOee
V
ITM'ltMi .Sl'ltUc IvS lli:i,
itiit miss omi: iim.i:
WINTI.lt QrAliTKItH, Jun 17
liiiii ra I sertlrcs were held her to
da) hi the ward chapil for Olive Dull
the IB-) car-old duughter of 1 1) rum
anil Harriet Hall Date Miss Date
died Januur) 11th In n Halt I .a lie Clt)
hospital after nn operation for up
pindlcltls The house was crowded
with relatives and friends. The ward
choir sang appropriate selections.
The speakers wire Elders C I An
derson, Don Carlos Woodward, (1 II
Mowr), lllshop T J I'arntle) nnd
lllshop (leorgo Huff, ull of whom told
of her sterling qualities und lovable
disposition Hlie was attending high
school In Heofiold t hen she was
stricken III and man) of her class
mates wire prescrt at the funeral
Hho U survived b) her fathei and
mother seven brothi rs and four sis.
turs Interment wax In Heofiold mm
eter) The district school l'rlda) presented
to a large nudlenro of parents and
friends ' Jack and tho llennstulk," un
der tho direction of 1'rlntlpnl Carlos
Woodward The higher grade lo)i
gavo u minstrel show und the lower
grades sang ' The -flandmnn " Jack
I'rost ' und Jlol) Night
air com hoik "
Hi I I ( Intuitu rlu In pMiluiiil
ll I'll) Ii Inn II) Mn)ur
I lod Woods WHS prewlll Nt the
rigolsr meetlHg of the clt) -hiiiiI
taut TtirnlH) i veiling and In IwIimII of
tin t'rhe Ctimerl bund nnd the l.enl
bHMl.Mll orgHUltttloii'VgKetl th fil
ii in In I and murul nopport or th urn
II Hi lftileiiei, lllilt the lounill
gti lh IhiihI and 1 1 1 i hih tin prer
inn e as to dates far ilsneex and
other iiitirtHliimtils In City HhII nnd
thnt tin i iiiiiu It Jiuiitm t both orgntil
xull.Uis I.) nut Hliowhig the hull to lie
used h ullii m lin itays that would
spull the utli ndiitii't nt such inter
talumeuis Tin i iiiiiu II voteel mianl
moiisl) to give the baud und ball illib
the use of Clt) Hull alternate Hntur
.tin) veilings during the coming )inr
at it rental of tline dollars null iilglTT
und pledged themselves to see to It
that no end rtiilnment should In
given In the hall on n ilute that would
hurt the two organisations f Inane lull)
Tin blind Is also plidgul to do all It
tan to reciprocate nnd will stii) at
home on all holldios und ( It I rations
and will ulso during the suinmir
months, resume Its regular cunitrts In
the Main street baud stand The sug
gestion that tin ball i lub plu) nil Its
giintis here on Haturdii) ufti rnoon
was well received nnd the mum II
promised to use Its Influence to hava
the huslnosM houses e luse tin Ir doom
during Hie pirlod of any baseball
game.
Mn)or A W llorsli) uppolnti d It
I Chnmhirliilu us clt) pli)sleluu nnd
health officer and the eoun II, nil of
tin mi mbi rs being pn nt, voted
)ut The position iiirrhs with It
it solar) of ti u dollars pi r month.
At tin ritiiiist Marshal D J Ho
lier, Morgan King was uppolnti d u
special polle email, his ilutlis being tho
collection uf poll tuxes and tin Issu
ing of dog IU i nses
the of fir of W Thair to sill
to the ell) it hundred mid fort) shares
of tin Allred Canal lompnii) s stock
ut two dollars n share was tinanl
mousl) turned down and Coiim lluiieu
lioflMiutow s motion that tin clt) do
not pure ham this stock or nil) more
slot k of nil) other witttr eompnii) ut
the pre suit time inrrlid unanimous
l The major was also iiulhorlied to
, n prist nt the ill) of 1'rln at an)
'regular mietlng of tin Prlii Water
eompau) for the purpose of voting
the slot k of tho clt)
The juuhiir i lass dauii of the hh.li
school Is slated to ocuur on I'e briuir)
ISth, this date being given 1 the
iioumll nt the retiiest of W (1 It mi
Harmon Tho tlasM Is going to eon
slderabli expense for this oieasion
,111111 special trains un to In run from
I various parts of the count) so the
1 1 nunc II thought It propir to give tin in
(tht date as s t
I Aithtir II lltintin whs retalnetl as
iiollector of likht mill wntir inten at
la commission of S pir tint on eondl
Hon thnt ho publish fixed office hours
and dates for such collections
Tho annual financial report was
Nilbmltted Ii) Iticofdil I A lllllitr
mid was upproved unit flhd This
stutement will be found In full In the
minimis of this ImprtxHilon
Major llorsle) Instructnl the clt)
marshal to strictly Infnni the Hon
da) closing ordinances
List where In this I upresslun of The
Hun appears a financial statement of
the town of Hiawatha for the ear
1K15 us made up by IMwht K flurke
clerk, and upproved l C J Hohults
treasurer It ts u good showing tell
ing In un Intelligent and brli f manner
of the receipts nnd oxpendlturm nnd
where cverv dollar of the revenues ul
the munlclpallt) bus gone with tho
amount of mono) on hand The new
town board ut HIawutha Is composed
, of K Hantschl, Hr president Thomas
W I.o win, Clus Ooodart and l)r J 1.
Dowd, trustees These gentlemen be
lli vo In publlult) newspaper pulill
clt) In the matter of moiiujs han
dled loloimlng to tho taxpn)ers Ihe
'statement Is one not to be iishnincd
of
HENRY AND BRYNER
HAVE DIFFERENCES
All Is Not Going Well With the H
Democratic and Bull Moose H
Court House Crowd H
That all Is not going along smooth
I) for the present count) ndmlnlstrn
Unit Is Indicated b) what occurred nt
an adjourned meeting of the commis
sion! rs Inst Monda) morning nt which
J It Sharp nnd Albert llr ner were
present After several matters had
bein itlsposid of Hherlff Henr) np
penreil In fore the board nnd staled
that some little differences had nrlncn
hi tw e en hi nnd one of his deputies.
He wished tin loinmlssloners could
urrnnge to tmvo n "little" ndvlsor)
eonsiilintloii with tin m (llnir) and
llrymrl Tin eommlwiloners then so
Hllitngeit It that the advisor) eon
sultHtloii would take plnee i llher tut
nn tlliitel) be fore or Immediate!) after
the next meeting IMiruar) I nth
What the 'little different e are
between our retlmabte sheriff Mint his
depot) The Hun Is not Informeel Hut
wit) not speak right out lit ineetln "
Mr Sheriff The illffereueeii must
surely hitti iiinountetl to woiiu thing,
its an Hltorue) naniid I'rlte was an
hiixIoiis unit nerviius nttonditnt lit the
olinmber und on hearing ugkel the
lommlssloni m not to forget to cull
him up nt his officii should tin mat
tir" iiiute up The "mutter wns
found out b) The Hun to lie differ
e need above n fern d to
The iiimmlsslouirM were tu receipt
of u communication from the Ketch
lAm Conl eompiiiiy asking pirmlMlon
Yif eimsiriiit n trestle over tho count)
road nt Castle (late I'irmlssloii was
granted tin in with the condition that
It should be flftien ft it wide and
Ihlrliin fut high In the clear The
aiiuual report of the expenditures fur
lutprovi mints and maintenance of
publli hlghwa)H b) the roil lit) for
the )iar 191ft was stibmlttul b) Itoail
Huptrvlsor Dunlev) und upproved He
also flletl an Invintor) of the toots,
supplies and soforth wljlih he had
on hand
Constable M II Utile uf Itilpcr
flhd Ids bond, whlih was iipprovul,
und Mrs llnrbam 1'orrister. count)
recordir, appeared unit state tl that
tliero was no present ownership plat
of the town of Hcofli Id In the count)
building unit that It was nccessar) to
have one In order that propir assess
meats could I e inndt Hho statid that
I'uicr) i mint) had ouo on file and
that she would like to obtain It so thut
ti i op) mold In mude The i lerk was
Instruitid to leiinmuiiliati with Km
irj muni) In tho matter
FEET WW FROZEN
I'tirtluiiir (uptiircil rnr lliivlug
IIiiIiIhiI Hiiiiii)sIiIc I'rli ml,
With his fit limit) froieit from tin
iffut of ii two ihi)s tramp through
tho snow. John Klilsh was urrenteil
)estirda) at Wellington l a di puty
sheriff He was brought lien and
lodgtd In the eouiit) Jail where he
will nwnlt tho action of tho 1'nltetl
Htutis postal authorities Klilsh who
Is a Itusslun I'ole und out of work
had been stopping with some of tils
countDineii at Hiinuyslde unit whin
alone In the house his companions
being at work In broke open tin ir
trunks and stole a mom ) unit r or
postal suvlugs receipt for it hundred
dollars whlih he presented ut the post
office and got the cash
I'risumiibl) searul nt what he hud
eloni lie made his gctawiiy" on font
lustt ml of taking the train or nn)
one of tin numi rous automobiles thut
make tho trip to HuniDside dull)
When nrnsted he hint In tils posses
slon 08 05 but us he speaks vcr)
poor Kngllsh lie cannot explain mi)
thing The forger) of the money or
der or postal savings receipt Was com.
inlttcd on Tclesdu) eousciieutl) tie
must havo spint two du)s und nights
wandering uliout tho hills In the deep
snow Hherlff Iteniy sas It will ha
some weeks before ho will bo able to
get around
Curbori hect at The. Sun Advt
I tic Wilfnrv MCH-tnlloii Meets iihd BBBB
Hlcets
CAHTI.K (I TK, Jan IK. -The first H
annual meeting of the Castle Onto BBpHBJ
Welfare nssoc latlon met titMho school BBpBpJ
liotiM tho evening of Janulr 3d for BBpBpJ
the puriHMii of ilteMng fiflecm for BJBBBB
the )iar 1916 .William I.lttlejohu BBBBsl
was eterled iliiilrntan of the meeting BBpBpJ
and the followlug win ul) elected BBpBpJ
triistieti of tint Aissoilntlit William BBBBBJ
I.lttlejohu Dr UC MySther. J C. BBpBpJ
Hnow Otto HirrNcU((ti Iteese. W. It. BBpBpJ
Jithnsein and William llnrr Htate BBpBpJ
ments iiivirlng the fliiauelal tnmsne- BBpBpJ
lions fur l Is were rad b Tnsis BBhBV
ulrr J A Tllolpe and the IllMtltlg BBpBV
BBpBpJ
The Castle date Wi I fore ntsoeln- BBpBpj
tlon Is an organization for promoting BBpBV
and supporting sports, first aid nsso BBpBV
ulatlon baud und the gcnertil welfare BBpBB
or tile illhtins or Custlu (Into. It wns BBpBfl
orgtililieit In the latter ptirt or IB It,
unit fluaiiietl b) hoIhh rlptlons (or nt- BBpBa
titer itnesi tit tint tul from the earn BBpBB
lugs of Its inemliern liionlhl). N'o ono BBpBB
Ii obtlgeil to tieeinue n uivmbor or BBpBB
Ki dues, IIioiikIi nil ate mrillnll) In BBpB
vlted to become members who care to BBpBB
do so During IVI the nsstnjlntloit BBpBB
iHimplsted the iirgunlMttlnn of a first BBpBB
class IuiscIhiII tisim nit excellent BBhBB
Uind, furnishing tliim with suits. In- BBpBB
striiments, musli, i ti gavo iisslatanco BBpBB
to tho iNisketball tinm In bii)lug suits, BBpBB
Ii furulshiil nmiist ments for elilt BBpBB
dreii holldti)s, moving picture BBpBB
shows, itc , gave moving picture 9AV
shows iiutl dances for grownups Pur BBBB
tlie coming enr the association ex- BBpBa
puts to accomplish more than wits
ilom lust eiir though no lomplulnls BBpBa
can be made us to thnt )enr Nearly BBpBl
tvirxmc in Castle (late Is it booster BBpJ
for the organisation unit also u mem- BBpBf
her BBpBl
At n muting of the town board BBpBl
held rceintl), tho members were nil BBpBl
present t'resltti nt, I.evl Davis, trus- BBpBl
tees. William lfrdmnu. IMtvurd IM- BBpBl
wards, Itnbert II (Irnlinm ami Wit- BBpB
11am J How ns At tills meeting tho BBpH
following of fit era were appointed by BBpBl
the hoard Clerk J C Hnow, trras- BBpH
u re r, J A Thorpt liiutlh offlei r. t)r, BBpB
15 M Nelit r strut supervisor und BBpH
marshal J I' Cor), jusllici of the BBpH
peace, Morgan D l.vitus, iittorne), H
M I' llraffet and I'erdlnand l.rlvk- BBpH
si ii BBpH
IIKill MATTERS
Niiiiiiiiiiim III nw or Inn iil Coiilrlb BAfB
ii) BAvB
The Home Ihoiiomlc club met and H
di tided to reservi u da) which wilt H
be annoiiiiiid later for u progrum In BBpBj
meinorlam for Mrs. Kllut II Itluh- iBpH
urds, thn gretatist workir for "Hitler BBpBj
Homes Amtrltii has ivir produce d H
This ilu) will In nbservid as "Home BBpH
Du) ' On thut da) u voluntar) eon- BBpH
trlluitlon of an) sum from five tints BBpH
to one dollar will be ntttptetl from BBpH
txiih pirsou who Is lutt resit d In is BH
tubllshlng u living memorial "more BHl
lasting than bronxe to the memory BBpB
of this great hoint maker The innnc) BBpB
reielveil will lie sent to the Agrluul- BBVB
I u nil tollegn to help tarry on the BBpB
work to which Mrs. Itluhurds dcill- BBB
cute d her life Utah lid ull other BBpB
states In contributing towunls thU
fund Inst )car It Is very netcssary 9AS
that wo keep up this record, f(ir Utah !IH
mutt ulwa)s bo In tho lead of the
states that have Mxnl hornea uml BBpB
spit ntllil families as their Ith ul tok BBpB
out for tills progrum It will be In H
strucllve us well as entertaining
The leap yeur dance given 1'rlclH) BBpJ
h) tho Homo Kconomlc club show est BBpJ
what would happtu If tho c.lrls were BBpJ
given tho "reins ' Tho bo)s were on BBpJ
(orttd to tho dance, und taken home BBpJ
safel) And the girls did It The BBpJ
glilr wurn not partial to the hand BBpJ
some ones but danced with thorn all. BBpJ
It was an unusual sight to see tho JBB
bo) watting with unxlous fines, tu BBpJ
bo chosen, and tlie confusion of keep BBpJ
log their dunces stialght Mrs Ottu BpjB
ngncd to escort thu dateless' boy BBpJ
hut there were none Hoclullv and fin BBpJ
unclall) the damn proved tu le the B
bbst of the season BBpJ
Tlie Juniors are putting forth ovirv ppjB.
effort to give us tile best prom" (hat BBj
has ovir been given Don't forget BBpJ
tho date I'cliruar) 1 S tit BBpJ
Iust Tucsdu) wi wire entertain! d BBpJ
b) 1. Ii Vurcel who Is r(!prtse,utlng H
the- Chicago Hjnipluui) club. He Is BBpJ
ndvocatlng u new iiutlouuL anthem BBpJ
lie has composed and put 'to mush BBpJ
unci entitled America Ho I'n Ho BBpJ
I'nlr ' The musli to tin song U viry BBpJ
BBpJ
'fll
sfllPfl
