aonmofety
THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 39. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, JANUARY 21, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
TAX COLLECTIONS
WILL BE STOPPED
Declaring that the homesteaders on
the Indian reservation reclamation
projects are entitled to as considerate
treatment as has been given the Nor
thern Pacific and other roads holding
land grants, the federal government is
preparing to bring suits against three
western Montana counties, insisting
that they be permanently enjoined
from enforcing the collection of taxes
on any and all of the farm units of the
Flathead reservation by selling their
equities or improvements.
This is the first suit ever brought by
the United States to protect settlers
on Indian reservation irrigation pro
jects and to prevent them being com
pelled to pay taxes before they have
title to their lands.
The counties named are Sanders,
Flathead and Missoula. Each has en
deavored to collect taxes from settlers
on the Flathead and have taken pre
liminary steps to collect the levies,
Papers in connection with the suit
are being prepared in Butte at the
u "ice of the United States district at
torney and will be filed in the federal
court there.
It is stated that the suits will affect
the rights of settlers upon 100,000 acres
of land and those who may become set
tlers on units later, for the prime pur
pose of the suit is to secure a judg
n:ent in the federal court that will es
tablish a principal that no such lands
shall be taxed until the settlers are in
receipt of title thereto from the gov
ernment.
The chief counsel of the reclamation
department of the government at
Washington has rendered an opinion
that the lands in question cannot be
taxed until the title of the government
has been extinguished and the settlers
have their patents.
The suit against Sanders county is
brought on the relation of Benjamin H.
Erest, a settler on the project in that
county; that against Missoula county
on relation of Edward L. Reinhart,
and that against Flathead county on
relation of Thomas L. McMichael.
The complaint says that these ac
tions are brought in the interest of all
persons similarly situated in the coun
ties named, or all settlers who have
not secured title to their land and whom
the counties may attempt to tax.
In Missoula county it is estimated
that between 100 and 200 such settlers
have already paid the tax, some of
them under protest, to avoid trouble,
and the county officers who are made
defendants in the suit as well as the
county, are advertising the equity in
terests in the lands held by 38 others
for sale for delinquent taxes.
Similar conditions exist in the other
two counties. Seven delinquents were
found in Sanders county when a check
was made there, and a number in Flat
head county. In Missoula county, the
county advertises that it will sell the
equity interest of the unit holders in
the government land.
The opinion of the chief counsel for
the reclamation holds that, if the coun
ties can sell the rights of the home
steaders on such projects for taxes be
fore he has title, they. can defaat the
purpose of the government to dispose
of its lands by the homestead method.
It also holds that there is no way by
which corporeal improvements are to
be sold, since they cannot be separated
from the land, which belongs to Uncle
Sam till title is conveyed to the settler.
Answering the argument that it may
he years before title is conveyed by
the government and that the county
will lose taxes during that time, the~
opinion says that for decades the Nor-'
themn Pacific and other railroads held'
government land grants without pay-'
ing taxes because final conveyance had.
not been made to them of the land and
that the homesteader on reclamation
projects is entitled to as considerate
treatment.
Notice of the suit has not yet been
served upon local county officials.
LOUIS WEIGEL IS BANKRUPT;
Helena Merchant Has Liabilities of
$22,000 and Assets of $18,000.
Louis Welgel, who has been en
gaged in the shoe business in Helena,
was adjudged bankrupt in the federal
court at Butte. His lIabilities aggre
gate $22,707.82 and his assets $18,
718.28, of which $4,550 is declared to
be exempt.
The unsecured claims of creditors
aggregate $14,140.47.
SI. H. Hill, a farmer of Dawsoa coun
ty, also filed a petition in bankruptcy.
Hils liabilities are $45,751.08 and his
assets $30,603.
TYPHUS RAGING IN MEXICO
American Physicians Preparing to
Combat Epidemic.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 18.-Mexico is
infected with at least 100,000 cases of
typhus fever according to reports to
federal officials here.
American physicians. armored in
silk and rubber against the infecting
body vermin, are preparing to go into
the afflicted country to combat the
epidemic with the methods used lately
In Serbia, according to an announce
ment by Dr. Carlos Husk, chief sur
geon of the American Smelting and
Refining company.
DEATH FROM SUFFOCATION
This Is Coroner's Jury's Verdict on
Fatal Class Contest.
Philadelphia, Jan. 18.-Accidental
death due to suffocation was the ver'
dict of the coroner's jury In the case
of William C. Lifson, seventeen years
old, University of Pennsylvania fresh
man who was killed in the bowl fight
last Wednesday.
ITALY REFUSES TO
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
Padua, Italy. Jan. 18.-Signor Bar
zilai, cabinet minister without port
folio, in an address here, speaking ap
parently for the government, declared
it is useless to attribute to Italy re
sponsibility for the taking of Lovcen
and the Montenegrin disaster. As in
the woes of Serbia, he said, the blame
was collective and the result of the
allies' ineffectual program.
"Our enemies," said the minister,
"find salvation in silent servile obe
dience imposed by one man. We
should have foreseen this work be
cause of the uncertainties inherent in
a league of free peoples.
"There is no ground for the charge
that Italy is responsible for the errors
of last June. To prepare for the pro
tection of a country without frontiers
before hostilities were pressing was
the common task. In the future this
iorder of argument will not be profit
able and the governments making use
of it to excuse failures will not merit
nor receive pardon from their peo
ples."
Allies Buy Rourhania's Grain.
Bucharest, Jan. 18.-An English syn
dicate has closed a deal for the pur
chase of 80,000 cars of Roumanian
grain. The Roumanian grain surplus
will be purchased by the allies, it is
understood here, in conformity with
the plan of "starving out" Germany.
MONTANA MINE PAY RAISED
Butte, Anaconda and Great Falls Com
panies Increase Wages.
A voluntary wage increase of 25
cents a day has been granted to 25,000
mine and smelting employes in Butte,
Anaconda and Great Falls.
The Butte and Superior company,
the W. A. Clark companies and other
concerns, it was announced, have
agreed to the increase, which will re
main as long as copper is 20 cents or
more a pound.
Many Coyotes Slain.
Announcement made by L. D. Mor
tix at Helena shows that during 1915
$108,629 was spent as bounties on coy
otes, wolves and other predatory ani
mals. During the year 20,997 coyotes
have been killed and sixty-one moun
tain lions. Ranchers in Valley county
received the most money as bounty
and were paid $7,614. In Silver Bow
county claims were paid for $655.
Well Known Horseman Dead.
Charles F. ("Ted") Hayes, a resi
dent of Montana off and on for thirty
years and a well known horseman, be
ing connected with Marcus Daly and
later W. A. Clark, .Jr., is dead at
Butte. He was widely known all over
the country in racing circles and was
very popular in the West. Mr. Hayes
was born in Saratoga, N. Y., fifty
years ago.
BIG SLUMP IN IMMIGRATION
New York, Jan. 16.-The number of
passengers arriving at New York on
ships from foreign ports during 1915
shows a decrease of 519,467 from the
previous year, according to figures
made public here by the Ellis island
immigration authorities. The de
crease is attilbuted solely to the war.
From all ports and by all steam
ship lines there was brought here dur
ing the year a total of 216,274 per
sons, as a'rJnst 735,741 during 1914,
and 1,338,216 during 1913.
Officer Avalanche Victim.
Lieutenant Joseph E. McDonald,
Twelfth cavalry, U. S. A., was killed
by a snowslide at Mammoth Hot
Springs, near Fort Yellowstone, while
on a sledding party with four friends.
"HOW HAPPY I COULD BE WITHOUT EITHER."
'-s i
-Cesare in New York Sun.
ALLIES PLAN TO
TIGHTEN HOLD
May Declare Formal Blockade
of German Ports.
VIGOROUS PROTESTS PROBABLE
France and Italy Are Said to Be Re
luctant to Accept the British View.
United States, Holland, Denmark,
Sweden and Norway May Strenu
ously Object.
Washington, Jan. 18.-Plans of the
entente allies to declare a formal
blockade of German ports, It was
learned, have been the subject of ex
changes between diplomatic represen
tatives of the allies here and, in an
informal way, between the diplomats
and officials of the state department.
According to information here the
program contemplates a virtual exten
sion of the blockade to the European
neutrals by rigid application of the
"ultimate destination" doctrine and
delay in putting the plans into effect
is attributed entirely to reluctance on
the part of France, and possibly Italy,
to accept the British rights of a bel
ligerent in this respect.
The subject has been approached
here with great caution and, it is said,
with a thorough application of the pos
sibility of an outbreak of anti-British
feeling in congress.
An effort is being made by the diplo
mats to determine the strength of
American feeling generally on this
subject and the European chancel
lories are being kept fully advised of
the daily developments.
Application of the blockade to neu
trals, for which the British contend
the United States established a prece
dent in the Civil war, is fully expect
ed to result in supplementing the op
position to the United States by the
very bitter protest of Holland, Den
mark and Sweden, and possibly Nor
way.
Except for this feature there might
be little objection to the substitution
of a real blockade for what are re
garded here as the wholly illegal or
ders in council.
At present the allies are stopping
all commerce with the Teutonic pow
ers directly by these orders in council
and are restricting indirect commerce
by actual seizures through agreements
with the neutral countries in North
ern Europe to embargo exports into
Germany and Austria.
Small Town Bars Doomed.
Fully 500 saloons go out of business
under a law passed by the last legis
lature, which became operative Jan.
1. Attorney General J. B, Poindexter
has given an opinion on the law,
which bars saloons in towns of less
than fifty bona flde residents.
AUSTRIA LIABLE
TO FILE PROTEST
May Object to Merchant Ves.
sels Carrying Guns.
OVERLOOKS FIRST INSTANCE
Vienna Foreign Office Is Expected to
Announce That Any Armed Ship En.
countered by an Austrian Submarine
Will Be Subject to Attack Without
Warning.
Washington, Jan. 18.-The Austro
Hungarian government, according to
authoritative information received
here, is prepared to take up with the
United States the questions involved
in permitting merchant ships armed
for defensive purposes to leave Ameri
can ports.
A communication to the state de
partment on the subject probably will
be sent immediately if another Italian
ship follows the lead of the Giuseppe
Verdi and enters an American port
with guns mounted.
In such a note, it is said in Teu
tonic diplomatic circles, the Vienna
foreign office undoubtedly will inform
the United States that any armed
ship encountered by an Austrian sub.
marine will be subject to attack with
out warning.
The intentions of the Austrian gov
ernment became known after Baron
Erich Zwiedinek, charge of the em
bassy here, had called upon Secretary
Lansing, informing him he had ad
vised his government that the Gi
seppe Verdi had been permitted to
leave New York harbor with two guns
mounted at her stern.
The ship was allowed to clear after
the state department Thad been as
sured by the Italian government that
the guns aboard her would be used
for defensive purposes only.
When the vessel arrived in port
Baron Zwiedinek directed the atten
tion of Secretary Lansing to the guns.
In Teutonic quarters it is explain
ed that the Austro-Hungarian govern
ment did not consider it is justified in
making a protest at the arrival of the
first Italian ship.
The United States having permit
ted the ship to sail with armament.
however, it now is considered that
there would be justification for diplo
matic correspondence, should a second
armed Italian vessel arrive in an
American port.
FORTY BUILDINGS BURNED
Oklahoma City, Okla., Jan. 18.-Fire
destroyed the entire business section
and a portion of the residence sec
tion of Wirt, Okla., in the Healdton
oil field.
Forty buildings were burned and re
ports said 500 people were homeless
CANADA TO AID UNTIL END
Ottawa, Ont., Jan. 18.-The determi
nation of Canada to continue to exert
every possible effort to send aid to
Great Britain until the war is brought
to a victorious conclusion was given
expression in parliament, first by Sir
Wilfred Laurier, leader of the oppo
sition, and then by Sir Robert Bor
den, the premier.
The two leaders declared that while
war continued in Europe there shall
be no political questions fought out
in Canada.
Sir Wilfred Laurier declared that
German successes upon land had been
more than offset by the silent success
of the British navy at sea where, with
out a major action, the waiting fleet
under Jellicoe had rendered the Ger
man navy as ineffective as if it had
been sent to the bottom.
Sir Robert Borden expressed con
fidence in the eventual success of the
ATTEMPT TO DRAFT
SONS OF ERIN FAILS
London, Jan. ]S.-The proceedings
in committee in the house of commons
resulted in no modification of the mill
tary service bill. The government
strongly resisted an attempt to in
clude married men in the scope of
the bill.
The most important amendment
sought to include Ireland. This also
was negatived after debate, in which
.John Redmond, leader of the Irish Na
tionalists, eloquently appealed to the
house not to endanger Ireland's loyal
ty, displayed in her splendid recruit
ing campaign, by an attempt to em
ploy force.
The only amendment accepted was
one providing that men married be
fore Nov. 2-the day Premier As
quith gave his pledge-should be re
garded under the bill as married men.
An amendment that the bill should
not apply to single men above the
age of thirty years was defeated.
SIDES IN WITH SETTLERS
Government Will Oppose Efforts to
Collect Taxes,
Declaring that the hornesteaders on
the Indian reservation reclamation
project are entitled to as considerate
treatment as has been given the North
em Pacific railway and other roads
holding land grants, the federal gov
ernment is preparing to bring suits
Against three Western Montana coun
ties, insisting that they be permanent
ly enjoined from enforcing the collec
tion of taxes on any and all of the
farm units of the Flathead reservation
by selling their equities or improve
muents.
This is the first suit ever brought
by the United States to protect set
tlers on Indian reservation irrigation
projects and to prevent them from be
ing compelled to pay taxes before
they have title to their lands.
The counties named are Sanders,
Flathead and Missoula. Each had en
deavored to collect taxes from set
tlers on the Flathead and have taken
prelinimnary steps to collect the same.
Papers in connection with this suit are
being prepared at the office of the
United States district attorney and
will be filed in the federal court at
Missoula. It is stated that the suits
will affect the rights of settlers upon
100,0100 acres of land.
CHINAMAN GETS BACK ROLL
Purse of $1,455 Was Taken From Him
by Federal Officials.
Quron Qrork Qri, a Butte China
man, who, while peacefully reposing
in his dwelling in Chinatown a few
months ago, was abruptly and rudely
disturbed by a federal drug inspector
and B~utte police, who searched his
house and took from the premises
$1,4.5, received his money back from
the federal revenue office.
No charge was ever placed against
Qui. However, in order to secure the
restitution of his property he was
obliged to engage an attorney and the
latter, T. .1. Walker, had considerable
work to do before he effected that end.
Qul was the subject of what at the
time was called a raid for opium and
other drugs.
BENCH RANCHER IS DEAD
August Joseph Hirschman Succumbs
to Cancer.
August Joseph Hirschman is dead
at his ranch on the bench east of Dil
lon, due to a lingering illness of can
cer of the stomach. Mr. Hirschman
had been a resident of Dillon for the
past several years and was a machin
ist. A few years ago ie located on a
homestead near Dillon, where he lived
until the time of his death.
The deceased was a native of Ger
reany and was born Oct: 9, 1856. He
lived in Germany until a young man,
when he came to this country.
ROUND BUTTE
TO CELEBRATE
The residents of the Round Butte
district will celebrate the completion
of their handsome and commodious
consolidated school building next Tues
day night, January 25th, and they ex
tend a most cordial invitation to all to
attend and jollify with them. The
building is probably the largest and
most complete consolidated school
building in the state and the people of
that neighborhood are justly proud of
the structure and will be more than
pleased to entertain all the people of
the valley in it next Tuesday night.
An excellent program has been ar
ranged for the evening, including an
address by H. A. Davee, superinten
dent of public instruition for the state,
short addresses by cthers, vocal and
instrumental music, a bountiful sup
per and a big dance. The exercises
will commence promptly at 7:30 and
a charge of $1.00 will be made for
everything-the entertainment, supper
and dance--barely enough to pay the
actual expenses.
Those in charge are very anxious to
have the people of the valley attend
their celebration and will leave nothing
undone to make the evening enjoyable
and instructive. The completion of
such an educational institution in a
community sparsely settled and only in
the first stages of development is an
accomplishment to be proud of and the
Pioneer hopes to see the promoters and
all those who assisted in the work en
couraged by a large attendance at the
dedication of the new building.
SAFETY FIRST CRUSADE
BY HIGBWAY COMMISSION
At a recent meeting of the state
highway commission, the following
resolution was adopted:
"Jt i: hqrcIy ordered that the secre
I tary of the Commission take up with
all common carriers operating withhi
the state of Montana the matter of
placing warning signals at every rail
road grade crossing within the state,
situated in such a manner that it is in
any way difficult to observe on-coming
trains for a distance of one-half mile
in either direction from approaches of
said crossing.
"The secretary is further directed to
communicate with all chambers of
commerce, boards of county commis
sioners, newspapers, municipal author
ities and civic organizations, asking
their cooperation in bringing about
favorable action on the part of the
common carriers in this matter."
The commission calls attention to
the fact that accidents at railroad
crossings are becoming unnecessarily
and deplorably frequent and insists
that vigorous steps be taken to elim
inate the possibility of such accidents.
It calls for a safety first movement on
the part of the people and says the
public should be educated to the dan
gers existing at all crossings. Many
trains travel at high speed and with
the increasing traffic and the speed of
automobiles the dangers are ever in
creasing. Every railroad clossing is a
danger point, not only to auto drivers
but to the drivers of teams as well,
The public is called upon generally to
enter the crusade for safety appliances
at all railroad crossings.
Declare For Lights
At a special meeting of the town
council held last Monday night, at
which all residents of Ronan were in
vited to be present and talk over the
matter of granting a franchise for
water and lights, the concensus of
opinion of those present was favorable
to the project. The extreme cold
weather kept many away and on this
account another meeting will be held
in the near future at which it is hoped
to secure a larger attendance. How
ever, Monday night's meeting was
quite representative and and after a
two hours' discussion a poll showed a
solid sentiment in favor of granting a
water and light franchise nnder cer
tain conditions. Ample notice will be
given of the next meeting.
Horses and Cattle For Sale
We have for sale four teams of big
Percheron mares and forty head of
Jersey milch cattle. Also a quantity
of farm machinery. Property can all
be seen at A. J. Brower ranch.
38tf RONAN STATE BANK.
