Again, Householders are Warned to be Careful About Fire While Water is Short
Trie Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 3
EXTREME COLD WAVE
VISITS WASHINGTON
Began First week in January—Reached
Lowest Point Sunday the 16th,
10 to 22 Below Zero
The cold wave, the first since winter
set in, began the first week in the
month, and on the Bth the thermome
ter indicated zero weather at a number
of points. There was a slight let up
(or a few days, followed by a further
drop which on Sunday, January 16th,
indicated 17/4 degrees below zero
here. At Wenatchee it was one or
two degrees colder and in the Oka
nogan, Douglas and Grant county sec
tion reached a degree of cold indi
cated by 22 degrees below. Monday
morning following it was 15 below and
Tuesday 11!<2 below, showing that the
extreme point had been passed.
Because in this section there is very
little stock running at large there was
little loss or suffering. In Douglas,
Okanogan and Grant counties, where
there is still range stock, there is re
port of much suffering and some loss
cattle and sheep.
Farther east, in Montana and the
Dakotas conies the report that the
temperature fell as low as 48 below
with a 30 degree temperature every
where.
In the Waterville country, where the
cold was accompanied by high winds
drifting the snow, railroad traffic was
interrupted, on what is called the
Mansfield branch and the towns along
that line were without mail eight or
ten days. On the Northern Pacific
branch line from Spokane to Coulee
City there was an interruption in traffic
tho not as serious as on the Mansfield
branch of the G. N.
At the same time on the Sound there
was unusually low temperature, rang
ing from 18 above to 10 above, ac
companied by show, which in some
sections reached a depth of six and
eight inches, with ice on small bodies
of water from two to four inches in
thickness, making skating possible, a
winter sport not often enjoyed in Puget
Sound region.
STATE NEWS NUGGETS
Sheriff Hodge, of King county, raid
ed the Rainier Club, Seattle's fashion
able resort, and found in one closet
400 quarts of whiskey and a large
quantity of champagne, wines, em and
other liquors. The rooms of many
members were opened and liquor in
excess of the quantity allowed by law
found. A buffet was raided and a
large quantity of liquor found. Every
thing, including the cash register with
$60 in it, and furniture, fixtures, chan
deliers, tables, counter, mirrors and
chairs and a lot of liquor was taken and
hauled to the sheriff's office. The
Cecil hotel was raided and 3000 bottles
of beer and other liquor found. Every
thing was confiscated. Many arrests
were made and others are to follow.
The law, says Sheriff Hodge, will be
enforced against rich and poor alike.
Walla Walla reports a shortage of
water and cautions householders against
carelessness and fire. The light plant
Is not working up to capacity. All due
to the cold spell and freezeup.
As a result of the interruption in the
train service Waterville suffered con
siderable inconvenience from fuel
shortage. The snow blockade was
broken Tuesday.
Secretary of State Howell has issued
the third annual report of the division
of weights and measures. He has also
is»ued a companion booklet containing
101 l and complete specifications for
commercial weighing and measuring,
covering manufacting, importing and
sale in accordance with law. There is
only a limited edition available to the
public. A card addressed to I. M.
Howell, Olympia, Wash., will get cop
ies of either or both.
Wheeler wants your drug business. *3
tlbe Xeavenvvortb iScbo
Special Meetings Continue
Special meetings still continue at the
Methodist church, every night except
Monday night, commencing at 7:30.
Every man feels that some prepara
tion of life is necessary for a man to De
at his best. Most men have a plan
worked out that looks reasonable. Dr.
Torrey's four tests of a refuge may
help you to see if your refuge is a true
one, or only a "refuge of lies."
First, a true refuge must be one that
meets the highest demands of our own
conscience. Second, does your trust
in your refuge make you a better man,
does it help you to stop sinning? Third,
will it stand the test of the dying hour?
Fourth, will it stand the test of the
judgment day?" These tests must be
applied to one's religion, as well as to
any other refuge. Many a man's re
ligion is of so spurious a type, that he
is none the better because of it. Gen
uine Christianity has proved and is
proving a true refuge. Give the gos
pel a chance with your life. This is
worthy of your most earnest thought.
We sincerely desire your presence at
these meetings.
F. L. Moore, Pastor.
COUNTY FINANCES IN
HEALTHY CONDITION
Cash on Nand First of Year Was $147,
--466.99—5ch001s Absorb Most of
Taxpayers' Money
The following financial statement
was given out from the county audi
tor's office this week and shows a
healthy condition of the county's finan
ces. The enormous cost of keeping
ud the schools of the county will open
the taxpayers' eyes Its up to them to
say if the children are getting the full
benefit.
During the year 1915, $704,534.53
was collected by the county treasurer,
according to the annual report com
pleted today. Of this large sum, the
chief source was taxes, accounting for
8549,809.31. The total disbursements
$696,578.51. The cash balance on
hand Dec. 31 was $147,466.99.
The state received 8113,666.74, but
in return remitted to the county $14,
--383.05 as state school apportionment.
Exclusive of the state apportionment,
schools received a far larger sum than
did any other fund of the county gov
ernment. Warrants aggregating $279,
--298 were paid to this account.
Interest on delinquent taxes amount
ed to $15,167.75. Interest on bank
deposits totaled $2,648.34.
Receipts from hunting and fishing
licenses were $4,575.75.
The total warrants paid on all funds
amounted to 8425,350. Interest paid
on these warrants was 84,244.33.
Spent a Delightful Evening
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Seidletz enter
tained the following guests Monday
evening at their home: Henry Saver,
D. J. Nicholson, Willard Wamsley and
A. P. Nicholson. At eight o'clock the
guests were invited to partake of an
extraordinarily fine dinner prepared by
the hostess. After which, one of the
guests in a fitting manner responded
with several toasts and remarks in ref
erence to the super-excellence of the
dinner. This was followed by several
interesting readings by Henry Saver,
which were much enjoyed.
Keep your skin in a healthy condi
tion, free from chaps, roughness, etc.,
by using some appropriate lotion or
cream. Tell us about your skin trou
bles and we will suggest the best rem
edy for your skin. When we recom
mend it we guarantee it, which means
you can bring it back if it's not satis
factory. That's fair, don't you think
so? Koerner's Drug Store. 2*
[astern Mails Late
For the put week all mails from the
east have been from four to eight
hours late. The unusually severe snow
and wind storms thruout Montana and
the Dakotahs is responsible.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, January 21, 1916
CITIZENS STILL SUFfER
FROM WATER SHORTAGE
Normal Conditions Promised by Satur
day—Gang of Men Replacing
Frozen Pipe With New
Shortage of water the past week is
still the greatest trouble of the house
holder. Southside residents have fared
tolerably well. For a few hours every
day the water from the railway com
pany's line is turned into the city
pipes, but as this lasts only for a short
time and the railway company only
agreed to let the city have so much as
it could spare, the pressure has not
always forced the water to the north
side, where the ground is considerably
higher. Still, people have somehow
made out and little complaint is made.
In the meantime the city's water
superintendent is doing all he can to
replace the frozen pipes with new and
hopes to have the connection made by
tonight, or not later than Saturday.
The new pipes were hauled out on
sleds to within one and a half miles of
where needed and from there they
were dragged on hand sleds. The
work is most difficult and the men era
ployed have suffered much from the
cold.
High School Forms Dramatic Club
The people of Leavenworth will be
glad to know that their High school
is again to be heard from publicly in
the field of dramatic art. This public
appearance of the local school has come
to have the significance of and to be
looked forward to as an annual affair.
For several years the students have
succeeded in their efforts along literary
lines of the highest class.
Two years ago they field an orator
ical contest of high merit and last year
appeared in Shakespeare's ''As You
Like It" in a manner that would have
done credit to a professional cast. It
has been officially announced that the
young people have something unusual
to offer as their annual public perform
ance this year. The talent of the
school however is not confined to lit
erary lines alone, but is musical as well.
The students will therefore combine
their literary and musical ability and
offer one of the most attractive musical
plays recently published —the opera
Sylvia, a pastoral play in two acts. Its
lyric and bucolic theme offers an abun
dance of inspiring and catchy choruses,
beautiful solos and a bevy of rustic lads
and lasses to sing them. Flans for
elaborate costuming are being carried
out in detail and the staging will be up
to date in every respect. One of the
most notable features of the production
will be the orchestral arrangement of
the entire opera which will bring out
the usual harmony of the musical text.
The patrons of the school have every
reason to expect something worthwhile
and they will not be disappointed in
'Sylvia. Miss Elsie Meier will have
charge of the production in the capa
city of musical director and Mr. Donald
Lancefield will be business and stage
manager. The date has been set for
April 7th.
farewell Dinner to Mr.Carr
A farewell dinner party was given
Monday evening by members of the
K. of P. lodge and others in honor of
M. E. Can, who ieft yesterday after
noon for Arkansas —the land of the
festive razor-back. As a token of es
teem Mr. Carr was presented with a
beautiful watch fob and charm. Cards,
music and Hungarian goulash formed a
combination of attractions that made
the occasion one of the most enjoyable
of the season. Besides the guest of
honor those preseut were B. C. Ruth
erford, F. M. Lee, Theo. Eresch, Dick
Simons, Harry Maston, Harry Blanken
ship, L. R. Hart, H. K. Berry, Ryan
Templin, Gabe Rawlins, Harry Warner,
A. R. Brown, P. L. Gallagher, F. W.
Bickle, Sam Daly, D. C. Town »nd Al
Frank.
Cranberry culture is expanding in
Washington.
Blewett Mining Man Acquitted
Mr. R. B. Ridgely, who it will be
remembered was assaulted by three
men in November last, at or near the
entrance to his mine in the B'ewett
camp, was acquitted by a jury in the
Superior court in Wenatchee last Fri
day afternoon. He was charged with
assault in the second degree by his as
sailants. Louis Crollard, who defended
Mr. Ridgley, declined to take up the
time of the court aLd jury by making
a closing argument in defense of his
client.
INDUSTRIAL ITEMS
Of THE NORTHWEST
Indicating Renewed Activity in Various
Lines of Busines and Pointing to
Progress and Prosperity
Oakville is to have a new creamery.
The Union Pacific railway is to build
from Olympia to the Olympic moun
tains.
The A. S. & R. Co's smelter at Ta
coma is to be enlarged at a cost of
$500,000.
Thirty-eight carloads of Alaska sal
mon in one train left Auburn recently
for London.
Reports say the Seattle Dry Dock
Co. has a contract to build ten steam
ships for Atlantic trade.
Contracts for eighteen miles of state
road in WhitmaD county, costing $45,
--000 have been awarded.
Portland business men have agreed
to work for a permanent highway from
Yakima to the Columbia.
The Union Pacific system has asked
Grays Harbor lumber men for bids on
10,000,000 feet of car material.
Walla Walla will vote on a $200,000
bond issue, Jan. 22, for a new grade
school and an addition to its high
school building.
The Bimetallic Milling Co. is pre
paring to erect a 100-ton electro-chem
ical ore treating plant at Turk, Wash
ington, costing about $25,000.
The Chicago Northwestern road has
just placed orders for two million feet
of lumber with Aberdeen, Puget Sound,
Willapa Harbor and Centralia mills.
The state supreme court holds that
a passenger cannot collect damages
from a street car company on account
of the conductor failing to tell the pas
senger the car was moving when she
stepped off.
Tacoma lumber men announce that
eleven large railway systems have
placed or are about to place orders for
Douglas fir with northwest mills. When
railroads start buying, sawmills prosper
and we all get a share.
The president of the Washington
Water Power Co., before the Spokane
city council said: "If something does
not happen soon to relieve our com
pany of operating cost, we will cease to
operate." Trouble has been brought
by too much regulation and high taxes.
Because they insisted on standing
up while the "Star Spangled Banner"
was being played, and refused to sit
down when ordered to do so by per
sons in the rear, two privates of the
United States Marine Corps, in full
uniform, were forcibly ejected from a
movie show in Washington, D. C.
A recent ruling by a justice of the dis
trict supreme court gives the manage
ment of a theatre the right to eject
patrons under similar circumstances,
and no official protest by the Marine
Corps authorities will result.
Bert Hodge, who was arrested at
Blewett for assault on Roy Lang in
November last, was found guilty of as
sault in the second degree in the su
perior court at Wenatchee Tuesday
morning. The penalty is confinement
in the penitentiary not more than ten
years and a fine of not to exceed
$1000, or both. Hodge, it will be re
membered, hit Lang over the head
with a peavy- The trouble started
over a dog fight.
MINING MAN AND WIFE
IMPOSE ON OLD CITIZEN
Secure Half Interest in Valuable Mining
Property at Blewett—Court
Asked to Cancel Deed
A tale of doubtful business practice
and the credulity of a man of 70 is told
in a suit filed in the superior court
Taesday last in Wenatchee.
Jas.Wilder, of Cashmere and Blew
ett, asked the court to quiet title to
six valuable mining claims at the latter
named place.
Joseph Warner, accompanied by a
woman he called his wife, became
acquainted with James Wilder, of Cash
mere, aged 70. Representing himself
as a prosperous citizen of New York,
and pretending to have $10,000 in
cash which he was anxious to invest,
Warner persuaded the aged roan to
give a deed to one-half interest in the
six mining claims, promising to erect a
reduction plant on the properties, ac
cording to the allegations in the com
plaint.
Wilder further alleges that Warner
not only did not fulfill his promise to
construct a reduction plant, but instead
disappeared with his mate last Novem
ber, taking a large quantity of high
grade ore and leaving unpaid labor
and material bills amounting to $2500,
which have been filed as liens against
the claims.
The plaintiff asks the court to cancel
the deeds given Warner.
Both Warner and his wife are well
known here where they often came to
buy supplies from our merchants.
DAMAGE TO TREES AND CROPS
BELIEVED TO BE UNIMPORTANT
Blanket of Snow Protected Wheat—Dam
age to Young Trees Reported
Peach Buds May Suffer
The winter wheat crop, under the
snow, is safe from damage by the cold
wave. Tho there is some danger in
February and March. The crop is
large and the plants well rooted to
withstand the freezing weather that
sometimes follows an early spring after
the snow is well gone.
Some horticulturists fear that the
peach crop may be cut short by the
freezing weather of January, but it is
yet too early to positively assert that
the peach crop has been killed in the
bud. Apple, pear, cherry and prune
trees are all right and a large crop is
confidently predicted for 1916.
Frozen Pipes Cause Range Ex
plosion
The second explosion of a kitchen
range due to frozen water pipes oc
curred lsTßt Sunday morning at the
home of Lee Howerton. Without ex
amining his water pipes Mr. Howerton
started a fire in a new range last Sun
day morning with disastrous results.
His wife commenced getting breakfast
for the family and at the time was pre
paring batter for the breakfast hot
cakes. She was a few feet from the
stove when with deafening noise it
literally blew all to pieces. The lids
went thru the plastered ceiling. One
part of the range hit the kitchen door
which was torn from its hinges and
thrown out into the yard fifteen or
twenty feet from the house. Some
piece of the stove hit her on the top of
the head in such a way that it left a
bare place about the size of a silver
dollar as tho the hair had been shaved
off, but beyond stunning her tempo
rarily did no serious hurt. Another
piece hit her on the hip inflicting a
slight wound. She was the only mem
ber of the family in the kitchen at
the time. Mr. Howerton says the
range cost him 180 a short time be
fore and after the explosion was noth
ing more than scrap iron. He esti
mates his loss at $150.
Every part of the state reports rec
ord breaking cold weather.
Our Jot Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to tkis office.
$1.50 Per Year
Musical Talent Organize
The recently organized Leavenworth
Musical Club met Tuesday evening at
the Masonic Temple for the transaction
of business and elected the following
officers:
Mrs. L. C. Brender, president.
M. A. Marley, vice-president.
F. S. Jacobsen, director.
Miss Bella McLean, secretary.
Harry Wall, treasurer.
About thirty members were present
and great enthusiasm was evinced over
the prospect of an early appearance of
the club in a musical comedy. New
music has been purchased and other
arrangements planned to make the
initial production an unqualified suc
cess. The idea is to stage an enter
tainment about once a month, and
make a grand splash twice a year. The
next meeting will be held Tuesday
evening at the L. D. clubhouse, when
the rolls will be open to new members.
Further information may be obtained
from the secretary.
STATE FISH AND GAME
REPORT SHOW INCREASE
Nearly 100 Per Cent Gain in Financial
Returns—Efficient Management
Curtails Expenses
During the past twenty-one months
the game fund receipts ol the state and
various counties totalled $250,071,
showing an increase of nearly 100 per
cent over the previous twenty-four
months period, according to the bien
nial report of L. H. Darwin, state fish
commissioner and ex-officio chief game
warden.
The output of trout from state hatch
eries which, during previous adminis
trations had been allowed to drop to
about two million per year, during the
last year was more than trebled, show
ing 7,560,000 trout eggs handled by
state hatcheries. It is aimed to make
the increase still greater this year.
During the first year covered by the
report there were 96,350 state and
county fishing and hunting licenses
issued, and 124,901 during the second
year. King county headed the license
list, with Snohomish second. In addi
tion to the license revenue consider
able contributions were received from
law violators. With 607 arrests the
first year, 499 convictions were ob
tained, and out of 970 arrests the sec
ond year there were 793 convictions.
The designation of Fish Commis
sioner Darwin as chief game warden,
to serve without additional salary, saved
the state $3300. Mr. Darwin, in this
report, recommends that countiei con
fine their activities chiefly to game
farms for the breeding of game birds
and animals, leaving the state to pro
vide the bulk of the game fish output.
In the last year covered by the re
port the planting of 10,044,000 game
fish is shown, while 4523 game birds
and 25 elk were liberated. The birds
included 2262 Hungarian partridges,
876 Bob White quail, 682 Chinese
pheasants, smaller numbers of part
ridges, pheasants and quail of other
varieties and an even dozen wild turj
keys. Removal of a portion of the
Roosevelt elk on the Olympic penin
sula farther south, to end present over
crowding which might result in starva
tion, is recommended. The elk lib
erated in the western Cascades, it is
noted, were loosed to close to civiliza
tion and still constitute a menace to
farmers in the northwestern counties.
The Chinese pheasants, imported at
great expense by the game associa
tions, are experiencing a hard winter,
despite the fact that many ranchers are
doing everything possible to protect
and feed them.
Paste This in Your Hat
If you want to be miserable think
much about yourself; about what you
want and what you like; what respect
people ought to pay you, and what they
think of you. —Charles Kingsley.
Butter Wrappers at the Echo Office.
