BIG RALLY, GOOD SPEAKERS. FREE MOVIES, AMERICAN THEATRE. SECOND AND SENECA, TDESDAY AT 12:30 P. M.
NINETY per cent of the tourist travel from Chicago to the Pacific coast it lost to Seattle! Are you, as a business man, interested in bringing this travel here? THEN
ATTEND THE BIG MASS MEETING AT THE AMERICAN THEATRE, SECOND AVE. AND SENECA ST., TUESDAY AT 12:30 P. M. Manager John Ham
rick says everybody may remain and see his show at the close of the meeting. Speakers will explain why the Southern Pacific railroad and allied lines control the travel
West, and how. And they will tell how Seattle can help win the fight for equal rates and make millions of dollars for the Northwest. Chairman Reynolds, of the pub
lic service commission, and Mayor Gill will be among the speakers.
SHERIFF OPENS WAR ON lil
Iddresses Prosecutor as "Beatrice Fairfax" in Letter on Liquor Situation
Sftar E®adlsrs Tel
Wm Uaey'r© F®d
Some editorials on the mayoralty
situation, written by reader* of this
paper, appear today on page 7.
808 HODGE TELLS WHA T HE'S GOING
TO DO UNDER SEARCH LAW—AND WHY
V 1 The sheriff was at hi" desk —a big, healthy man. who]
filled the chair comfortably, but with little room to spare
Bob Hodge
Didn't Intercede for the Poor Victim
"Lundin. Gill, Lister' Say. did you hear any of thi- trio
raise any kick when policemen in Seattle arrested a gardener
MERCHANTS IK
UP H RATI FIGHT
A. M. Fraser, president of the Fraser-Paterson Co., and
one of the most prominent merchants in the state, gave hi*
wV-ole hearted approval Friday to the campaign being waged
by the state public service commission and The Star to place
the Northwest on an even basis with southern California
in competition for Fastern tourist trade.
The effort to have the interstate commerce commission
eliminate the preferential rate, which operates as a tax
against an Easterner buying a round-trip ticket to the coast
and return, via Seattle, has the united support of Seattle
business men.
A Matter of Vital Interest, He Says
, "You are stirring tip a lot of public interest in the mat
ter of the differential against North Pacific terminals on
round-trip railroad tickets to San Francisco from hastern
points," said Mr, Fraser. "There can be no doubt that th<"
differential of $17.50 for $21.75 in winter) against Portland
and Seattle ha- the effect of materially reducing the travel
this way.
"It is a matter of vital interest to the whole public.
"The attraction* of the Pugrt Sound country are so
Creat that we should eventually interest as many travelers a
southern California.
"However, tourists should have an option of routes
which include the Northern line-, especially as tiic mileage
is no greater- even le-.s, we are told
Wonders at Inaction of Northern Lines
"The «<tate public service commission is performing a
good hervice in filing a complaint with the interstate com
merce commission, ami Ihe Star i- to he congratulated upon
• rearing publi< interest in the matter.
"Indeed, it is remarkable that, in view of this con
tinued discrimination against Seattle and Northwest points,
the matter ha- not been -tirred more actively before now.
It aKo seem-- strange that the northern railroads, who are
interested, should not have taken steps to compel an
Erickson put. it up to Dr. Matthew.! What? Read tomorrow'. Star and find out! Erick.on replie. to Gill', letter, printed in The Star thi. week. He an.wer. Gill',
questions. And, on Monday, ex-Chief Griffith, i. going to have a few word, to .ay. It all will appear exclusively in The Star. Watch for it.
"Why «liil you do it?" The
Star man a*ked
Hob 1 lodge knew what was]
.meant
"Complaints were made to
me," he *aid "It was my
duty to make the raids"
"But Prosecuting Attorney
I.undin. Mayor »>ill and Gov.
I.ister are all of the opinion
that private residences should
not be raided:'" was the nert
question.
Hodge rose—fairlv jumped
—out of the chair He moved
close up. His jaw* closed
tightly. You could see the
muscles in hts face draw taut
"None of them," he -aid, "is
empowered to repeal or amend
any law {>a**ed by the p-*»plc
"And what is m"fe— he
punctuated the words with
clenched fists jerked up and!
down—"none of them rained
any objection to the enforce
ment of the plain law UNTIL
A FEW OF TIU]
WEALTHY ONES —IN
F L U4-: NTI AL. PROMI
NENT MEN WHO RF
C.ARDED THEMSELVES
AS BETTER THAN THE
COMMON RABBLE AND
ABOVE THE LAW. GOT
CAUGHT.
(Continued on page 5.)
The Seattle Star
s THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS t
VOLUME 18.
the other dav I think his name is Wevoke l>ecau«e he had
a five-gallon jug of liquor? lust five gallons?
"Did you hear of any of them corning to the rescue of
some of the foreign-born residents who live in the poorer
section of the city, whom the police arrested for having a
trifle over the legal amount
"They rrad in the newspapers, as I did, of the case o!
some fellow who lives south of Yesler, some place, who was
arretted and fined for having more booze than the law al
lowed Did you hear any official wail* and protest* then?
He pau»ed. A wry smile hovered over hi* lips.
"I.undin, prosecuting attorney! He, of all men. to com
plain of technical enforcement of the law '
"Here he ha* been losing «leep for week* over a picayun
ish question that ha* worried his midget brain- whether a
person should be allowed to order both beer and whisky.
"He, Lundm, in spite of the ruling of the attorney
general, has gone the limit of technicality with his opinion
that you cannot have both beer and whisky ni>t more than
12 quarts of l»eer or a half gallon of liquor
"It"* this same Lundtn who now say*: 'Don't interfere
; with men who are keeping thousands of dollars' worth of
booze in their homes"
"Thousands?" The Star man a«ked.
"Yes, I would place a conwrvative estimate on value of
the stock found in the home of Mr Boeing at $6,000 The
suwk st Mr. Skinner * home I would v»*iu an at
Admires Boeing as a Connoisseur of Wine
He smiled then—a wide, goo«l-natured smile
"Mr Boeing's tastes were evidently those of a connoisseur,"
lie *aid "An expert told me *onie of In* liquors are *o rare
that they could not be duplicated. Some of the brand* have
been off the market for 4<) years Rich, exclusive stuff
"Mr. Skinner'* ta*te* were more common He had one
barrel of gin, containing 'ft gallon*. He had some wines, to
be *ure and also some beer "
He became serious again.
"Lundin, indeed! Lundin, who at times has been a
persecutor instead of a prosecutor because of his worship of
technicalities, i« a sorry spectacle when he takes me to task
on what he presumptuously declares to )*• a technical en
HEAT CARS AND
VENTILATE 'EM
So Says Dr. Grant Calhoun In
Letter to Public Service
Commission
SHOULD BE 60 DEGREES
That care ehould be heated—
with due regard for ventilation
—but should not be allowed to
go above 65 degree! or below
55 degreea. In order to give the
average man the greateet
amount of comfort, la the opin
ion of Or. Grant Calhoun, for
mer city health phyaiclan, one
of the four doctore who have
thue far anawered Inquirlea by
the public aervice commiaaion
about heating cara.
Th«> Kl*t of Or ('nlhoiin'a !«tt*r
la contained In thf following
"The public always confusea too
much heat or cold with catching
cold, la grippe, i neumonla. etc ,
while. In fact. It haa nothing. or
very little, to do with It
A tioorly ventilated car ntav be
either too hot or too cold for com
fort, and In either rase transmit
auch disease* A properly heated
car. poorly ventilated, will do the
same thing.
I ' Heating a csr is one of comfort
|onlv, and has very little to do with
IMm transmission of disease I
would say the Inside of a c»r kept
at about fit decrees Fahrenheit, not
allowed tt) go «ho*M fifi or below fif>
would be very much more comfort
able for the average person limn n
car without »nv heat, especially on
lone rout' I *, but If riot kept within
such hound* of temperature, It
would become disagreeable.
"If allowed t(f get too hot, and as
sociated with poor ventilation, It
would become morn dangerous than
If there were no heat at all.
The average car, to my observa
tlon, tias the ventilating windowK
all closed during winter time, ao
that the passengers would not coin
plain of the cold
"rto the question, to my mind, la
one of proper heat, associated with
nroper ventilation anil proper mentis
t 'ken for the enforcement of the
rattie. 1
SEATTLE. WASH . FRIDAY. JANUARY 21. 1916.
MURDERERS OF
AMERICANS DIE
Eighteen Villistas Are Ex
ecuted at Chihuahua
City
VILLA FATE UNKNOWN
EL PASO, Jan. 21.—Eighteen
Vlllleta bandlta paid with their
Uvea today at Chihuahua City
because of the aesaaelnation of
IB Americana at Santa Yaabel.
While detaila are lacking In
the official Carrantieta advices
telling the atory. It la believed
they were lined up before a fir
ing tquad In a public equare.
Moat or all of the 18 are aaid
to have participated In the San
ta Yaabel outlawry.
At for report® of Villa's cap
ture, Mexican Consul Garcia said
he Had neither confirmation nor
denial of it.
Gen. Hufrpra, at Chihuahua,
waa quoted, however, aa denying
the report and again aa saying
he had no confirmation of It.
CASE DROPS HAT
IN COUNCIL RACE
Otto A Case. for the paat three
veara aecretar) i«f the Commercial
Club, who recently reslgnul that
position. Friday morning filed for
the council. With the announced
withdrawal of Frank 11 lienick
from the race, this hrings the num
ber of councllmanlc aspirants to
11
('aae has served In two public
office*, first as county clerk, and
then no county auditor In each
office he waa instruments! In ma
terlally reducing the expenses
A resident oT Seattle Hlnce boy
hood. Case has been active In civic
affairs for man) wars, lie la n
municipal ownership advocate and
progressive In civic and political
Ideas.
forcement of the law
"Look at hi* treatment of Paul Sehutnan. Look how
he i* determined to -.end the man to the penitentiary when
the trial judge hun*elf declare* he never intended to send
him anywhere except to the reformatory I.undin is going
to appeal to the supreme court to make the judge enforce
a sentence he had never intended!"
"You say complaint* were made to you before you made
any raid*?" The Star man suggested
"Yes, sir, and when complaint* are made, it is my duty
to act that i*. when l»ona fide complaints are made. I have
paid no attention to telephone call*-- I got two dozen of thein
yesterday where the parties refused to tell me who they
are, or the *ource of their information.
Telia How He Came to Raid Club
"Let me tell you how ! came to raid the Rainier cltih.
! w»* spending a quiet Sunday Jailr Mike Malley. Mr*.
Halley an<l *<>me others and myself were playing whist. The
telephone rang
"I went to the phone. I could hear two women talking.
I wanted to know who it was at the phone. The other
woman advised her not to tell. She wa* Mobbing a* she
spoke She said she voted (or prohibition, tho she did not
object to a man taking a drink every now and then
"'I voted for prohibition,' she said. 'btraute I wanted to
have hunhand at hoin* on Suptiava. lie uwl to spend
njpm It the Rainier cluf>. lC«.w It ii wur*e than laser. 11#*
hardly ever at home. He's a! the club every night, and he
come* home on rare occasions in an uglv. vicious mood.'
"Reluctantly, tlien, she made it plain to me that her
husband had beaten her. 1 knew that if 1 had gone to that
home at that time. 1 could have plainly «.wn the bruises left
by that beajt God knows her mental torture!"'
Hodge either i* a great actor, or else his heart is a*
tender as a baby's.
lli« voice choked a* he talked and hi* eve« filmed.
"I cannot bear to see a woman or a child suffer," he
said. "I told her: 'Your husband will not come home drunk
from the Rainier club after this week ' I knew then just
exactlv what I was going to do. She <aid: '1 can hardly
believe that.'
"'Why?' I a*kcd, and *lic vaid: 'We've made complaints
WOMAN ACCUSED OF PLANNINO MURDER OF
NER HUSBAND; OTHER FIGURES IN CASE
cum » fc*** «*•»uwwrwooc
Above, Mri. Elizabeth Tiffany
Mohr, who la aceuaed of planning
the death of her huaband. Or. C.
Franklin Mohr, way-laid and ahot
while en route from Providence, R
1., to Newport In an automobllt, ac
companied by hla secretary, Miaa
Burger. With Mra, Mohr la her
attorney, Arthur Cuahlng. Mrs.
Mohr promlaea to name eeveral
prominent Newport aoclety women
from whom, aha aaya, her huaband
received large feea. (Below)
Miaa Emily Burger, office aaiistant
of Or. Mohr, who aa wltneaa at trial
of hla wife and two negroea held
for the crime, told how the doctor
waa killed and ahe aeriously wound
ed while driving In auto.
PROVIOENCK, It I . Jan 21.—
With his testimony un»haken In ma
terial points, (ieorge llealls. negro
chauffeur, left the stand today whorl
ly before noon. In the trial of Mrs.
C Franklin Mohr. charged, with two
negroes, with the killing of her doc
tor husband
liealls clung to his statement that
she had offered $.'>,ooo for the mur
der.
llealls probably will not be sen
tenced under Ills nolo ">ntendre
plea fir m.inalaugiiter until the main
*4r H y 8m. -fc. • Istt s i&jSs'
.
OW IKAIN*
MEW* Ir
ONE CENT
murder tti'il Is ended
Mrs. Mohr appeared nervous
again today, tho she evidently win
leas concerned over Heads' state
ments than she had been previously,
fjiewr
H EDITION 1
before and nothing has been done. No one has dared to do
anything."
" 'Well,' I «aid, 'you've complained to some one this time
who DOES dare.*
Says He's Been Candidate Since 1911
"Now, you know what a lot of people are saying," The
Star man said, "that you are doing this for (>olitical effect,
because you are running for governor again."
Hodge squared his shoulders.
"I've been running for governor," he answered, "since
tl»e spring of 1011, without letup, and I'm going thru with
it. whether 1 have a "-ingle paper in the state with me or not. „
I'm not depending upon them. Rut I've always held there
is no aristocracy of law to favor the rich.
"If complaints are made against the poor. I am in duty
bound to enforce the law against them, and I'll do it just av "
readily. Lundin and Gill and Gov. Lister say, 'Don't enter
the residences, no matter how much booze is stored away
by some of them.'
"Where are they going to stop? Will they «ay that raids
on hotels should be stopped? Isn't a man's room in a hotel
or lodging house just as much his castle as the house I rent
or the home Mr Skinner owns?
"('.ill, Lundin and Eister -ay thft raids should he con
fined to those suspected of intention to sell liquor.
"The prohibition law also says it's unlawful to give away
liquor,
"\Vlki has constituted Mr Lundin, MY. Gill or Mr. Lister
as the authorities to say which part of the law may be en
forced and which ignored?
"For my part. 1 am not going to dodge any responsibili
ties which the law places upon me If Lundin will not issue
warrants. 1 11 appear before the judges and swear out the
warrants myself—yes. and prosecute the cases myself, too.
Fortunately, the prohibition law makes it possible to enforce
it WITHOUT HITHER THE CO-OPERATION OF THE
PROSECUTING ATTORNEY, THE MAYOR OR THE
GOVERNOR.
"I want to make it plain tliat ! don't intend to hound
anv one who ha- a five-pallon jug of whiskey left over from
the old vrar—but it's a different case when they hare thou
sands of dollars worth.
POKES RIDICULE
AT PROSECUTOR
Oh! Beatrice Fairfax, what
■hall I do?
I've got the booie; now It'a up
to you!
Sheriff Mob Hodge. In an official
note Friday to Prosecutor Hundln,
severed peaceful negotiation* on
the liquor question and openly de
clared war.
lie addresses the prosecutor as
"lieatrlce Fairfax "
At the name time Oeorgp W
Allen, local representative of the
National Surety to. of New York,
the sheriff's bondsmen, said he
had wired Ills company's home of
fice that Hodge was raiding pri
vate homes for liquor.
in his letter to Hundln, Hodge
takes issue with the prosecutor
over the Intter's attitude In regard
to the search of homes, and hints
at the recall.
Hodge's official note reads in
part:
"I am addresalng you thru the
! dally papers, as that neems to be
the medium thru which you under
take to Instruct me In my duties as
i sheriff of Klnfi county
"I'nder flurluK headlines, some
three weeks hro, you warned the
Kin# county public, that they
would not he permitted to stock up
with bargain liquors and intoxi
cants. then being advertised by
most dealers
"You told the public all such for
bidden fluids would be confiscated.
"Since th» seiture of excessive
quantities of contraband Roods,
coming clearly under the ban of the
law, you have suddenly discovered
a sanctity In elaborate gathering
places and residences that has
never occurred to your office be
fore, when the poorer qunrters
were being Invaded under your in
stigation.
'Does the fact that there is in
mv possession contraband pood*
marked with the name of your po
litical sponsor guide you In this
newly discovered desire to protect
somebody ?
"As between an officer trying to
do his duty and a prosecutor who
refuses to recognize consistency
and who descends to insulting com
ments on ray acts, I leave the pub
lic to make a preference.
"Your duties are plainly describ
ed to you In the laws of the state,
and. while you are guided by them.
>ou will have less to fear from a
recall from your office.
"ROUT. T. HODGE."
George W. Allen, speaking of hta
wire to Hodges sureties, satd:
"We have always considered the
sheriff a particularly hazardous risk.
Ho hasn't much money. Suits tnay
be started against him, 1 under
stand, in connection with his recent
raids.
"My company had to be apprised
of this, as a matter of form. 1 think,
however, there Is little danger that
the sher'ft's bond will be canceled.
It is part of my duties to keep the
home office notified of the acts of
lis clients."
Hodge said he considered the
matter trivial.
"If they cancel my bond. I shall
not let that interfere with the per
formance of my duties They must
give me ten days' notice of such
action, and 1 can raise another
$5,000 bond, in cash, in ten min
utes.
"Divers and sundry persons
would go on my bond at any time.
They won't stop tue that way "
Weather Forecast
Rain tonight and Saturday.
