oflfl Tnnr <1 <\_ ■pmranF
WiVmVS} vT (f
/j qU/wA , ,
ELEVENTH YEAR. NO. 31
WORDS OF COMMENDATION.
In older to discover the opinion of
ii.imbei mi men who have been watching
,nc piogicM* oi woik being done on the ir
i igaiion project, and to secure their
slews on the future prospects of farming
under the big ditch, inquiry was made of
.i number of parties, and we herewith
.submit some of the lirst replies received:
■ in respons to your request 1 take pleas
ure in staling that it is my belief that
ihe portion of the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation project completed is good. If
Hie standard oa the small amount still to
1m- built is maintained it will be the best
system inti* which water lias ever been
iinned in the state of Washington. Tills
statement is not made from hearsay, but
11 cm a personal inspection of a consider
able portion of the system. As one of
those participating in making the con
ilac( lor the construction of the system
I am free to say it is far better than we
hoped for. The contractors have done
ihch part, it is up to us to do ours, if
wc prepare and farm our lands in as
thorough and conscientious a manner as
lias been built there is no
dMubt abMiit the future prosperity of the
\ alley.”
J. F. SAMSON.
I am glad to have this opportunity to
express my optimism of the great benefits
Im be denied from the new irrigation pro
r, i now nearing completion. After many
wars of patient work and planning by the
i...aid of directors, assisted by a board of
competent irrigation engineers, wo now
m . I confident Unit we will have one of
•>i the most efficient irrigation systems
in the state. As an official member of i
Mm Tonaskel Seed Growl it* association i
am sure that 1 am voicing their sentiment
h\ .saying that the best of soil, plenty of
sunshine and an abundance of water will
biing marvelous results to tlie faithful
tillers under the West Okanogan Valley
I I rigation project.”
C. J. HOLMAN.
Spokane. Wash, Jan. 17, 1016.
Mi. Ernest lUste.
Secretary. W. O. V. i. U.,
Oroville, Wash.
Dear sir: ■ 1 am in receipt of your letter
asking my opinion concerning the future
prospects of the Okanogan valley and the
lands now coming under the ditch, and it
is a pleasure to give my impressions for
what they are worth.
it seems to me that there will be three
distinct stages connected witli the future
of he valley, and I will designate them
the “prospective” stage, the “develop
ment” stage and the “dividend” stage.
We are now well along in the first, or
prospective stage, and by this 1 mean the
time required to conceive and carry out
the building of the canal of the West
Okanogan Valley Irrigation District. It
«s needless for me to touch on how this
was conceived and carried out, except
that I want to say that the men interested
gave freely of their time, and succeeded
.a finally selling the bonds and thus as
suring the construction of the canal.
From the time tiiat the contract was
let to the present date the work has been
vigorously, and I believe, conscientiously
pushed until today it is rapidly nearing
completion, and from a personal examin
ation of many parts of the work I am
satisfied that we have a canaL that is
substantially constructed, has the carry
ing capacity that is required, and will do
the work satisfactorily.
I have lived in an irrigation district
for nine years, have seen several projects
successfully carried out in that district
and have visited several other districts
more or less noted. I have no hesitancy In
saving that if the work yet to do is com
pleted as well as tire work already done
I believe that we will have a canal that
wil be permanent, and that It can be op
erated at a comparatlvey low cost of up
keep. I believe that the ditch work is as
good as can be done, the flume construc
tion solid and enduring, and that It will
last for years with only small cost for
repairs. in fact It seems to me that
for the first ten or fifteen years this will
l»e a light tax on the land owners.
Water will be flowing in the ditch by
the time we are ready to use it in the
.spring, and owing to the fact that there
will be a considerable amount of land
that will not be in cultivation the first
year, the canal will not have to carry
its full capacity at the start, hence, will
have time to settle, and thus we shall
avoid much of the trouble that other
canals have experienced the first year of
their use.
So much for the first stage.
Next tomes the development stage, the
time when the man goes on the land,
erects his buildings, applies himself to in
tensified farming and gets down to the
business of securing his living from the
soil, and that time is just about at hand.
No one can deny that we have the
SOU., the CLIMATIC, the WATER and
the TRANSPORTATION, four great ab
solute necessities to make a success of
farming In this, or any other, district.
That we can produce vegetables, fruits
and grasses in almost unbelievable quan
tities. where the right care and cultiva
tion is given, is beyond question. However
one thing is necessary, of the utmost im
portance in fact, and that is the settler to
work the land, the man with the push and
the intelligence to get the very most in
return for his labor.
At the present time there are a few
highly developed small tracts under the
♦ anal, hut as a whole tlie ground as yet,
has not been scratched.
Again i say, we want the man to add
to our combination, so that it will be
profitable to all concerned, and this man
should have every consideration shown
him. lie should have every aid and advan
lagc. so that his success will he assured
if he will only give the right kind of work
in return.
Lands under the project are cheap Jit
present, and many who jire now here will
see tlie day. and that is In the near fu
ture, when they can look hack with feel
ings of regret that they had not taken
advantage of the opportunity at the time
when they could have purchased such or
such a piece of property for the small
sum of SSO an acre, .lust now good lands
under the ditch can he purchased for as
low a price as S2O an acre, and from that
up to SSS an acre.
Now consider the standpoint of the
small Investor. He comes here witli lim
ited capital, hut witn the ability to work
and the ambition to get aehad. For jis
low a price sis SOOO he can secure twenty
acres of land. If he will put 15 acres in
alfalfa, keep five acres for diversified
crops and Invest in from five to ten cows
he is immediately self supporting. and
as soon as he has harvested his first good
hav crop he can commence putting money
in the bank. All this on an original out
lay of from SI,OOO to $2,000. This, perhaps,
sounds easy. I do not Intend to convey
that Impression. It means hard work, con
sistent saving and making every dollar go
as far as possible. But nevertheless It is
possible.
After his original investment he will
have the charge for water to meet, a nat
ter of about SBO to SIOO per year for his
twenty acres. Regarding this charge I
can say that it compares very favorably
with the charges In other successful Irri
gation districts. In fact It Is only about
one-half what Is paid In some of the dis
tricts. and considering what can he rais
ed with water in fids valley, and how
little without, the charge must be consid
ered as exceedingly low.
I believe that every settler should to
some extent diversify in his farming, so
that while one crop might he low In price
another would bring good money. Some
men might have special experience In
some special crop that would make It most
profitable to grow, and naturally he would
devote his attention to that specialty.
Many acres In this valley would undoubt
edly produce the finest quality of grapes
and small fruits, but at the present time
a limited market exists for those lines. It
requires from four to six years for an
orchard to come into bearing, so no one
should plant ids entire tract to trees un
less lie has ample funds to finance Idm
self until the orchard Is producing.
It is absolutely necessary that the suc
cessful man raise some cash crop, some
thing that he can convert into money, and
I do not tidnk we have to go Very fur to
liml a few things that always bring tiie
cash. I have not tin* exact figures, but
there arc several million dollars worth of
butter, cheese and eggs slapped eacli
year into the slate oi Washington from
the east. Why not get a part of one oC
these millions?
Regarding the last stage I have spoken
of 1 believe that as soon as tin* valley
is settled up, and the occupants of the
land get down to intensified fanning, that
the farm units here ttiie average amount
of acreage owned by one family under the
project), will be between l! 0 and 40 acres.
That will he amply sufficient to insure
not only a good living, but a profitable
cash balance in the shape of a dividend at
the end of each year. Moreover, the tnan
with the smaller acreage, by a little more
persistency and care, can also make v a
profit. In some foreign countries families
are making their living off from as small
tracts as two acres of ground. Why then
should lie not do it here on ten or twenty
acres?
There is one other point tiiat I wish to
touch on, which I also consider in the
nature of a dividend to Hie land holder.
Where you have a faioil.t on every 20
acres you have almost all of Hie attract
ions of town life without any of Its dis
advantages. First of all. and most im
portunl to the woman in the home, is the
companionship of pleasant and agreeable
neighhors. and in a community of small
holdings you have close neighbors anil
form strung and lasting friendships. Sec
ond and perhaps nut less important, you
have all Hie conveniences of Hie town.
You have electric lights, for tiiat wdll
come immediately Hie valley is settled,
and with the lights come all the advan
tages of electric power and Hie devices
Hint make farm life more easy tor the
wife as well as the farmer himself. Next
you have the churches and Hie schools,
which are absolutely essential to Hie
building up of the community. Again, the
telephone, that saves many an hour of
time when needed during tiie busy season.
Last, hut not least, tiie roads will he Im
proved so that heavy loads can be moved
at Hie least expense and trouble.
Regarding our advantages In transpor
tation to markets much could lie written,
hut the essential is tills, you have three
large cities within a few hours run of
tills valley. Spokane, Seattle and Van
couver. all destined to be great markets
in Hie future.
•lust one word more. There will be some
men. and they have been present In ev
ery improvement district In the past, who
will not think these tilings possible, be
cause they have never seen the develop
ment of a new country, Let me quote
from my past experience. When tire High
Une canal was being built at Wenatchee
several men told me that water would
never be put on the ground; that 'the
ditch would break: that the tiling would
be a failure. In fact one of the good men
of the vallev, and he was sincere in his
belief, said the town, then a place of 450
-inhabitants, would never be any larger,
and advised us not to Invest a dollar.
From that small beginning the place grew
to some 5000 people, and while It has had
Its ups and downs Is today a hustling,
progressive little city. One settler whom I
knew, came there without money enough
to make a payment on land. He rented a
place for two years. then purchased n
tract of land, and today he is independent.
There are many such cases that could be
cited. , ~ ,
Success under the West Okanagan Val
ley Irrigation system Is assured If we all
do our part.
Yours truly,
OEO. If. ELMS.
SEVERELY INJURED.
il. E. Sllvernall, whose home is in Oro
vllle and who has been employed as a
brakesman on the Great Northern road
for several years. Is the most unlucky em
ployee on the system. He is everlastingly
meeting with accidents, having the most
miraculous escapes from death. II is a
wonder that he is alive, or whole in limb
and body considering the jolts that he lias
received from time to time. Ho seems
to bear a charmed life, although not im
mune from painful injuries. Of late Mr.
Sllvernall has been stationed at lilllyard;
running in and out of that place, while
his family continued to reside in Oroville.
The following item from Monday's Spokes
man-Review goes to show that the hoodoo
is still pursuing him:
"H. E. Sllvernall of Oroville, Washing
ton. a hrakeman in the employ of the
Great Northern Railway, suffered a con
cussion of the brain on being struck by a
lump of coal that fell from a tank of an
engine on which he was working, near
Springdale. Washington, Saturday night.
He was given preliminary treatment at
the Springdale hospital and removed to
tin- Sacred Heart hospital last night in
care of Dr. .1. G. Cunningham.”
BASKET BALL TONIGHT.
The Oroville and Okanogan high school
basket ball teams will try conclusions in
the gym of the local school this. Friday,
evening, and a game of more than usual
excitement and Interest can be expected.
Okanogan will send up a lively bunch of
huskies, who play basket ball as they
played fool hall, and that means with
every ounce of reserve power at their
command. And the local aggregation is
not so slow, either, when you come to
size them up. In the two games already
placed the Oroville lads have demonstrat
ed their ability to do things in tire basket
ball arena. TTiey are going up against
heavier and more seasoned metal tonight
and if they win, it will have to be on merit
and superior playing. The two teams are
pretty evenly matched, and no matter
which side is victorious victory will come
only after a gruelling struggle. There
will be something doing every minute of
the game, and those who attend will get
the worth of their investment in thrills
and excitement. Get out tonight and enjoy
the spoil while pulling for the home team.
A DELIGHTFUL PERFORMANCE.
Hy far and away the best professions!
troupe that lias ever appeared in Oroville
was "The Girl from Nowhere" company
that presented that delightful and highly
amusing musical comedy at the orphemr
Monday evening. It was the largest com
pany in point of numbers that lias c.er
been seen on a stage in this place, and
every member of the company was ex
ceptionally good in the parts taken. The
chorus was made up of half a dozen pret
ty and vivacious girls, possessing excel
lent voices and the clever comniedians
kept the house in a constant uproar. The
music was lively and catchy, and while
there is nothing more in the comedy than
melody and mirth, there was sufficient of
both to make the performance delightfully
enjoyable. There was a large and appre
ciative audience present, but nothing to
what the crowd would lie should tin* com
pany ever plav Oroville a return date,
unfortunately the stage was too small for
the use of the scenery carried by the com
pany.
Tuesday. Eugene Figget. who has been
working for Chas. Bottomley. attempted
to mount a horse bareback and the animal
bucked him off. In the fall he suffered a
fracture of the right leg between the
knee and the ankle. Dr. Lewis set the
hone and as the break was without com
plications the young man will be around
again in a short time.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, JANUARY 21, 1916.
NEW OFFICERS.
One of the most largely attended meet
ings of the local Odd Fellows lodge In
yea is was last Saturday evening, on the
occasion of the Installation of new officers
to serve during the ensuing term. Every
member of the lodge but two were pres
ent. and they were detained by unavoid
able circumstances. The following officers
were installed by District Deputy Grand
Master A. J. Jackson: H. L. Warren, act
ing Past Grand; J. M. Fraser, N. G.; A. P.
Murray. V. G.; H. A. Bower man. Rec.
Sec.; K. K. Moose. Fin. See.; E. A. Mc-
Mahan. Treas.; Will Wentworth, War.,
H. O. Johnson. Con.: J. M. T. Williams,
Chaplain; J. F. Samson, I. Q.; J.
W. Carrel. R. S. N. O.; W. Kleln
sliay, L. S. N. G.; Ge»». Engle, R. S., V’. G.;
W. L. nissell. L. S., V. G.; C. Schassber
gcr. R. S. S.; J. I*. Fills. 1,. S. S. After the
installation ceremonies tlie members sat
down to an oyster supper followed by
cards. About 2 o’clock the members dls
persed after having spent one of the most
delightful evenings in the history of the
lodge.
PLEASANT SURPRISE PARTY.
On Tuesday evening the sclmol mates
of Margaret Brechiin gather© \ at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. T. \ . Collier,
the home of the little miss, ami cave her
a real and pleasant surprise, the i.ile and
oi caslon being Miss Brechltn's birthday,
i hose present were, Misses Carroll Work.
Dlanche Payne, Emma Heale, Alice and
J le Mitchell, Grace DoQajro. Pauline
Si hassberger. Man Naggy, Elaine and
Clover Morrison The guests entertained
ihemselves with recitations and games,
iftcr which a lunch was served and the
happ.v youngsters returned to their home
wishing Margaret many haopy returns of
the day. leaving behind with their good
wishes numerous little mementoes of
their visit, which will bo long remembered
by the young hostess.
“PRETTY SISTER OF JOSE/’
'Plils beautiful love drama taken from
the popular novel by Frances Burnett
will be sen sit the Lyric theatre both Sat
urday and Sunday nights. The plot Is fas
cinating. and the acting and scenery are
perfect, the popular star. Miss Margurlte
(Mark portraying the principal role of
“Bepiita.” The scenes arc laid in old
Madrid. Spain, and the scenic effects are
said to be the most elaborate that has
ever been put before the public.
'Phe “Pretty Sister of Jose” is an im
pressive and sypmathetlc portrayal of a
subject that has furnished the finest
prose and verse In every language—love
in its most tender form. From start to
llnlsli. It is a masterpiece.
——
“*ROAb DISTRICTS.
Notice is hereby given that the board
of county commissioners will, on the Sth
day of February, 1916. at 1:00 p. in., con
sider the matter of dividing the county in
to 2 1 road districts, or less, and all per
sons interested are invited to appear on
the above date, for the purpose of deter
mining whether or not it is desirable that
such districts be formed.
Done by the order of the hoard of coun
tv commissioners, this 17th day of Jan
uary. 1016.
F. A. GRAINGER.
County Auditor.
Win. Baines was in town from Oka
nogan Wednesday on a business visit. He
reported the roads open to Oonconully
from Okanogan.
'Phe concrete beadgate for the canal
system was all completed on Saturday
and the crew withdrew from the Job. It Is
a permanent piece of work, brat class in
every particular.
Miss Louise Atchinson, of Chesaw, was
operated on at St. Joseph's hospital this
week for appendicitis by Dr. Lewis. The
young lady, and she is but 14 years of
age. is doing nicely.
Owing to an order for a page advertise
ment -for which we are duly thankful —
coming rather late in the week, reading
matter Is cut down in this Issue. We will
try to turn out a larger paper next week.
An item In the .Spokesman-Review
states that W. H. Flnsen has secured the
agency for the overland line of automo
biles at Oroville and had placed an order
for ten cars. A demonstrator will he ship
tied tomorrow.
Road associations and all good loads ad
vocates are called to meet at the town
hall. Oroville, Tuesday, January 25. This
meeting is called for the purpose of con
sidering the proposed revision of road
districts as per announcement of the
county commissioners.
The directors of the West Okanogan Ir
i {gallon district have called a meeting of
all those interested in irrigation matters
fm Saturday. January 28, at Tonasket. An
all day session will he held and a number
of interesting speakers will he heard on
the various lines of interest to those in
terested in irrigation.
Among the new eases filed in the super
ior court last week were the following:
Grathwohl et ux vs., the Oroville Brewing
company, et al. Action to enjoin sale of
real estate and to set aside mortgage.
Imrkin Liquor To., vs.. K. Chrisman. Suit
on account. Anlce Chrisman vs., L. Chris
man. Action for divorce.
Rev. G. H. Severance left Monday morn
ing for Riverside for the purpose of going
from that place to Conroncully to fill an
appointment. At Riverside he was told
that not a stage or team had gone over
the road to Conconully for a week, and
it was not known when the road would
be opened, as there were drifts twenty
feqt deep in places.
In order to secure efficiency from the
new lire alarm siren it will be necessary
to have it attached up with the telephone
office. In that ease arrangements must
be perfected whereby central is not call
ed up except in case of a fire or a call for
i physician after closing hours. A peti
t-on will bo circulated securing the prom
! e of patrons not to use the telephone
after hours only in case of such etner-
Last Thursday Drs. Lewis and Bfnor
were called to Okanogan to perform an
operation. The train upon which the
medicos made the trip got stuck In a drift
neai Omak and they had to find convey
aiu e 11 » Okanogan from Ornak. They got
hi laic, hut performed the operation after
midnight. That was not the end of their
tnMihles. for they were unable to gel hack
to ornvllle until the next Sunday morning.
The only thing that saved them from an
il tak .a the blue devils was meeting up
with .la<k Long, also marooned, and that
individual could furnish entertainment for
a company.
The annual meeting of tlie stockholders
of the I’nion Title and Trust company was
held in the office of the company Wednes
day. The object of the meeting was to
elect three directors tn succeed S. T.
Mitchell. W. Leonard Davis and E. <r.
Klee. The first two named were reelected
and .1. O. Burdette succeeds Mr. Rice. The
following officers were then chosen: S. C.
Mitchell, president: W. Leonard Davis,
vice-president: L. L. Work, secretary.
Stockholders present from tlie outside
were L. C. Malott and .1. O. Burdette, of
Malott. Win. Baines, of Okanogan and
.lory Phelan, of Coneonully. The Union
Title and Trust Company is In a very
flourishing condition. It is a distinctive
home Institution, as most of the stock is
held in the county by leading merchants,
farmers and professional men. The paid
up capital stock Is SIO,OOO. distributed
among R0 shareholders. Few companies of
the kind have as strong a hacking as the
I’nion Title and Trust Co., and that back
ing scattered among so many local people.
f COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Oroville, Washington, January
IT, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councllmen
Heale, Smith and Fills.
Tile yearly report of tiie town treasurer
was read and on motion was accepted
and ordered published.
The yearly report of the town clerk
was read and on motion was ordered pub
lished.
Ordinance No. 71 entitled "An ordin
ance! relating to intoxicating liquors with
in tiie town of Oroville. prohibiting tiie
manufacture, keeping, sale and disposition
thereof, except In certain cases, the solic
iting mid taking of orders therefor, the
advertisement thereof and the making of
false statements for the purpose of ob
taining llie same; declaring certain places
to he nuisances and providing for their
abatement; regulating the keeping, said
and disposition of intoxicating liquors by
druggists and pharmacists; the prescrip
tion thereof by physicians; tiie transpor
tation thereof and providing for tiie
search for and seizure and destruction
thereof; prescribing tiie power and duty of
certain officers and tho forms of proced
ure and the rules of evidence In cases and
proceedings hereunder, and the fixing of
penalties for the violation thereof, re
pealing nil ordlnanecs and parts of ordin
ances in conflict therewith, was read and
motion was made by Councilman Heale
seconded by Councilman Frlls. that the
ordinance pass its third rending and lie
approved. Veas. Beale, Frlls, Smith. Noes,
none.
Motion was made and carried that the
town treasurer he Instructed to transfer
$760.90 from Hie water company fund to
Hie current expense fund.
At tills time tiie matter of connecting
Hie fire alarm with Hie local telephone
exchange was discussed and Hie ‘clerk
was instructed to have a petition drawn
and presented to all parties using party
lines for signature In regard to Hie own
ers of the telephone after the regular
closing hours of the telephone office.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HODS 10,
Clerk.
A daughter was horn to Mr. and Mrs.
J. A. Rlelly, at the hospital, Saturday.
Services will be held in Hie Catholic
church lu this place at 10 o’clock a. in.
Sunday.
I.ew Hendrix keeps two thermometers,
one on tiie north side and one on tiie
soutii side of Ids house. Hy this arrange
ment one of them is generally on tiie side
exposed to the wind, and the wind is what
cuts through Hie cuticle in this valley,
and makes one wish for orange groves.
The lowest temperature that Mr, Hendrix
lias noted lias been 12 degrees below zero.
That was on the north side during the
prevalence of a stiff gale. At the same
hour, tiie thermometer on tiie south side
of the house registered only 6 degrees
below. Twelve degrees below In the wind
Is no doubt about tiie correct record. Any
how. to those who had to he out in the
blow It felt us though it was 50 below,
and some more plied on top of that.
Tho town lias secured the siren lire
alarP j. that the officials have been neg i
'iatiifg ror for some time, and it will tie
placed In position as soon as it Is possible
to do out of door work. It is operated by
electricity, and when hi working order
lets out a roar that fairly snatches those
within reach of Its duicit notes out of their
beds, it people are in bed when it lets out
a roar. It is a necessary adjunct to the
lire department equipment, but we only
trust that its notes may never have to
vibrate through the town. And while on
the subject It would not be out of place to
add that some kind of effective organiza
tion should be provided, so that when the
big noise proclaims danger from the flr“y
element there will be those whose duty It
will he to get out the apparatus with Hie
least possible delay and know how to
handle it when It Is once needed.
FEEDING GAME BIRDS.
Deputy Game Warden Eee Fruit
was in town Sunday from Tonasket.
Mr. Fruit braved the chilly elements
on a mission of mercy. He was out
feeding the birds. He left Tonasket
with 1000 pounds of wheat to be dis
tributed us food for Hob White quail,
Chinese pheasants, prairie chickens
and such other birds as have lingered
here through the winter. He stated
that whenever he opened a sack and
scattered the grain along the road
birds would collect in flocks to secure
the food.
Between the deep snow, the pro
tracted cold and bitter winds, that
have prevailed so steadily in the val
ley, the little Bob White quail have
suffered severely, and report has it
that many have starved to death. Even
the larger birds, such as the Chinese
pheasants and the hardy prairie
chicken have found it hard to rustle
food, as the valley is not a country
where grain is grown and hence there
is but little feed in the fields for the
birds of this description.
The game commission is doing what
it can to provide feed for the game
birds that are not migratory. Those
that are in the habit of seeking a war
mer climate during the winter months
had the good sense to hike out early
last fall. Through the efforts of the
commission many of the birds winter
ing in the valley will be saved. Those
living in the valley should co-operate
with the commission and provide food
for the birds living around their prem
ises. So long as these birds are well
fed they will stand much cold. It is
starvation that kills them off and not
the cold. A little feed during the colder
months will give the birds sufficient
strength to weather the winter.
Owing to the fact that rfb train
went down the brunch last Friday
morning the high reboot basket ball
team did not go to Ccnconully to play
the game scheduled tor the 14th. Ov.
ing to the severe weather it was aim
(d> imiicsslble for the boys to dr.ve
ever to the old county --.-sat. The game
wiM no doubt be played at sonic li.-
tiifc date when the going is better and
men; certain.
A FIERCE BLOCKADE.
The boys who have the run on the
Orovllle-Wenatcluv branch earned
their salaries lasi week, not only
through hard work hut from the hard
ships they were called upon to en
dure. It was one continual round of
merry hades. No trains arrived or de
parted on time from Monday until the
next Monday, au.l there were days
when trains neither arrived nor de
parted while the train men were cool
ing their heels in the snow banks. The
persistent wind was responsible for
shooting (lie schedule all to pieces.
There is snow in abundance in the val
ley south of Tonasket for the wild
breezes to play with, and said breezes
did surely play hob with that same
supply of suow. The stretch of road
front Riverside to Maiott was the chief
scene oi misery in tho shape of solid
impenetrable drifts. Whenever u snow
plow managed to bon.- its way through
the immaculate impediment the inde
fatigable zephyr would proceed to
(ill in the gup again, and the next
train that came uiong would meet the
same old obstacle, it was a heart
breaking week (or lliose who had to
blaze tiie trail, a trail that had to be
blazed every other day, and there
were days when the blazing process
could not bo carried out. One handicap
for the crews is tho light engines used
on the run, which are not built to
break through a welt constructed cob
web.
Trouble commenced on Monday of
last week when tiie north wind started
on its seven days stand. Things went
from bud to worse. At first trains ar
rived from the south at any time to
ward morning an 1 left at any time
in the afternoon. Thus it continued
until Thursday Inst, when the train
that left here Thursday afternoon did
not get farther south than within a
few miles of Omak, There it stuck all
night, returning to Oroville Friday
morning. No train made an effort to
move until Saturday afternoon, and
the first train from Wenatchee arrived
at 10:30 Sunday morning. Twice dur
ing the week the t;aln was stuck in
snow bunks between stations all night.
Up to the time of writing, early this
week, trains were staggering through
on some kind of time hut so long as
the cold weather continues, with a
chance for a blow, the regularity of
the service is uncertain. The situation
has been very annoying to the public,
hut it was one of those interpositions
of providence that cannot always be
provided against oy man.
EPISCOPAL SERVICES.
Morning service anil sermon at 11.
Sunday school at 12. Evening service
and sermon at 7:30 p. m. You are cor
dially invited to attend these services.
As the bishop will visit Oroville imme
diately after Easter the Vicar will
soon begin to form a confirmation
class. If you desire to know further
what the Episcopal church teaches or
to join the class kindly notify the
Vicar.
REV. G. H. SEVERANCE,
Vicar.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Preaching morning and evening.
Morning service at 11 o'clock. Evening
service at 7:30. Special music at both
services- Sunday school at 10 o’clock.
There is none to young and none too
old to belong to our Sunday school.
We welcome you all to our services.
A. W. BOND. Pastor.
C. Bert of Wenatchee was an arrival
Friday last.
H. C. Walker of Nighthawk, Sunday
ed in Oroville.
O. C. Hartman of Tonasket, was in
town Saturday.
O. C. Onstrom was down from Mol
hson Saturday.
R. J. McCurdy of Keremeos, was a
visitor in Oroville Saturday.
Peter Flanagan of I.oorals was a
visitor in town Friday last.
B. W. Wheeler of Republic, was
among the arrivals Friday last.
Mrs. Ruth Holmes, of Chesaw, was
a visitor in Oroville, Friday last.
G. R. .lessen and Fay Sillman, of
Marcus, were in Oroville over Sunday.
Bert Evans, formerly employed by
W. E. Buzzard, left last week for the
coast.
J. M. East of the Tonasket neigh
borhood was registered in town Fri
day last.
Mrs. S. V. Covert arrived in Wenat
chee from Seattle, last Thursday on
her way home, but was compelled to
remain at Wenatchee until Saturday
night, owing to the blockade, arriving
home Sunday.
W. B. McCbesney was in town from
the Ivanhoe mine Saturday on a busi
ness visit.
W. E .Grant, the Loomis attorney,
was a visitor in Oroville on legal bus
iness last Friday.
Geo. Turner of CUesaw, braved the
cold and got down off the hill to the
metropolis Saturday.
Geo. Riste, who is one of the suc
cessful business men of Molson, was
in Oroville on a visit Saturday.
Victor G. Grove, the old time under
taker living at Chcsaw, spent two or
three days In Oroville during the past
week.
A number of young people gave a
social dunce in the library building
Saturday evening, and a most enjoy
able time was spent.
Those interested in the growing of
seed commercially are to meet in the
town hall tomorrow afternoon. Get in
to the organization.
Miss Ruth Loudon and her sister,
Mrs. May Splawn, came in from the
Loudon home in the Similkameen val
ley, near Cbopaka, Thursday last.
C. Clark, representing the old es
tablished paper house of Gray, Ewing
& Co., Spokane, was in town over Sun
day on Ids regular monthly rounds.
The Getsey billiard ball, in the base
ment of the Hotel de Grubb, is equip
ped with a fine lot of tables, and many
are amusing themselves rolling the
ivories.
The ice harvest is on and those en
gaged in putting up the cold commod
ity are cutting a choice vintage of
ice, running 15 inches and better in
thickness.
Jack Long, of Loomis, was snowed in
at Okanogan several days during the
blockade last week, but managed to
come in one first train and spent Sun
day in Oroville.
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Evans spent
several days this week in Oroville.
They did not come especially to spend
the time here as they were on their
way to Okanogan, and owing to the
weather contingencies could go no fur
ther.
John M. Cutchie, one of the old
timers of the Similkameen valley,
came in last Thursday evening with
the aim of continuing on Friday morn
ing to Okanogan to participate in the
stock grower’s meeting called for
that place. As all trains were tied up
Mr. Cutchie had to put in the day the
best he could in Oroville.
Jas. O'Herin, John Woodard, John
Heed and Ferris Ford, of Loomis, were
marooned in Oroville last Friday. All
four of the gentlemen are engaged in
raising stock, and were on their way
to attend the much advertised meet
ing of stockmen that was to take place
at Okanogan. As the railroad was
blockaded they were unable to reach
the county seat so they put in the day
ns pleasantly as possible among their
friends in this place.
The electric light end power service
has been on the bum for some time
past. Not being of the best under the
most favorable circumstances the
cold weather combined with the extra
ordinary low stage of water in the
Slmilkameen river, which is said to
be lower than was ever before known,
has almost closed down the plant The
c ompany is doing the very best that is
possible under the circumstances, and
considering what is to be contended
against the town is lucky having any
service at all.
A. K. Holden came in from Orient
last Friday night, with the Orient
Journal outfit, and continued on to
Brewster Saturday, where he will
start another paper. Mr. Holden pub
lished the Chesaw News tor a time
and found the going rough, us the
support extended to the paper in Che
saw is hardly sufficient to pay for the
ink used in printing the paper. He
then moved to Orient and it was like
jumping out of the frying pan into the
fire, as Orient is not of sufficient cal
ahre to buck a paper. He is now going
to try Brewster, a field that already
lias a paper. But Mr. Holden does not
go to Brewster without encourage
ment. He has more support signed up
there than he enjoyed at either Che
saw or Orient. Mr. Holden is a pleasant
young gentleman and gets out a read
able paper, two essentials that will aid
in making his venture a success.
KOR SALE-A CREAM SEPARATOR,
Jersey Cow, washing machine, and other
household goods; plow and spring tooth
harrow; J-lnch Winona wagon. Will sell
privately at the Rayboum Barn. It
yi.M PER TEAK
