TIME
ii JO. Mil X3jtUUUU JLKZJI
VOL. XIX NO. 2G3.
RARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, JAXUAJtY 21, 1916.
price, one ckxt.
rm TOT 1TO ID A ITh A IT
LY
VILLA ELUDES
HEAD HUNTERS
U.S. FOREIGN POLICIES
SHARPLY ATTACKED
Various Speakers at Meeting of National
Security League in Washington
Also Refer to Unpreparedness
of the United States.
i ml. i. TT TTnn DnlM I
IteporiS inat lie xiaa ucwn Washington, D. C, Jan. 21.-Attcks
CflDtUrcd Are DeniGd n the administration's forcgn policies,
by Herrera
TO FORCE FILING
OF DESIRED BOND
Papers State the Company
Is Operating With
out Right
pointed references to the utter state of
unpn-pareditess of the army and navy
and the awakening of public opinion in
the subject of adequate defense foaturcd
PURSUIT KEPT UP I'10 Addresses f prominent speakers to-
Trvn ATTTT AW rUTPl? "e,ore ln8 JNll,uu necuruy it-ague.
FOR OUILAW mbr Henry A Wise Wood Cliarlcg G Cur.
(is of New York, George L. Von Meyer
of Massachusetts and P. II. W. Ross of
News of His Capture Was ' ;'' Min. ie.6u.
r. At lust nights session, Robert Bu-
Told in a Private Icon, former secretary of state, brougl t
Telegram J"10 audience to its feet when ho de-
cihi eu:
"The nation is astir with a new feel
ing, mere is an awakening inrougiioui The ctv of Montnelier has filed in
El Paso, Texas, Jan. 21. Persistent! the land. The call for America to save Washington county chancery court Ta-
reports that Francisco Villa, the outlaw the Americans is sounding from house pers asking that a mandatory injunction
- onJ ..It.. rt ..14.. 111. -il 1 - - J- l l
Jiiilifarv chieftain had been captured at . ' ' 1 "r "l,llr ",u,r "r a,rP,l"ra" uo mtuia re-
limitary cnicuuin, iiau men iuuu -.ii ,vl. .. . n fllB 0ii.t..i.tl. Huv of Am-il ti,.,. ku,. ...! Hf....l...,i;. t..,.
.. v.. w -f j ii 11 Lilt jini ic caui inuni.H iiri . i tx v-
in went through every Middlesex turn and Power company to file a sat
isfactory bond with the city clerk, meet
ing the requirements of resolutions adopt
ed by the city council at recent meetings.
Deputy Sheriff Henry Law son has sered
II. I). Larabee with papers notifying him
uougias Kouinson, read a letter in of the petition for sn injunction which
which he said he regarded the proposed asks that the defendant appear within
continental army as a sham which would j42 days
be merely an uiellieieiit rival to the na
tional guard; that the navy program
was a paper program entirely made
SEEK TO ENJOIN
TRACTION CO
Petition for Mandatory In
junction Filed by City
, of Montpelier
San Geronimo were denied to-dSy by
General Herrera. The report came to villuge and farm, and I believe the an
the border in a private telegram from swer will bo as strong and clear as it
what was believed to be a reliable, source. wa ' th?n-
Aiieuuure xwosevens name was louu
ly cheered. His .siate: Mrs. Theodore
FELIX DIAZ WAITING.
To See if Carranza Demonstrates Capa
city for Ruling.
New York, Jan. 21. General Felix
The papers represent that the street
railway has operated and does operate
without right because of the. failure to
eomulv with certain sections of the fran-
denying emphatically that ho has preparedness should be required "usichise as gTanted in 1890, namely the
Diaz issued a statement here last night quatc to our needs," and that military!
J ; 1...:....!!.. AL 1.- t... . .... .
planned another revolution in Mexico. I matter of right, not ' as a mutter of
"The United States has Baid that Car- favor," of all American citizens. Col.
ranza must be given a chance to enforce Koosevelt likened the United States' fail
order in Mexico. I believe that is right ure to take other action than diplomat
and just," he said. "I, myself, will ic negotiations over the loss of Ameri
do nothing until Carranza either proves can lives by submarine warfare to a
or disproves his capacity for rule."
AUSTRIA DENIES
PEACE PARLEY
BROKEN OFF
woman s section of the National Civic
federation, told the congress that "no
woman who brings up her children on
a policy that she did not raise her boy
to be a soldier has a right to the pro
tection of another woman's son."
Luke E. Wright, secretary of war in
Roosevelt's cabinet, declared that the
country had reversed the policy, "speak
softly and carry a big stick," by "speak
ing loudly and carrying a stuffed club."
,. . ., ,, . , , It was time, he said, for adequate pro-
Vienna, Jan. 21.-It is announced here parednM8 to n(eet whllt mi,lt com
that the press reports that Montenegro ffa,r fce Eur0 if forK0 other
has dtscoritmued peace negotiates are m fc d
unfounded. It is stated that as yet the o A f h Americans-
Says Actual Negotiations With Monte
negro Cannot Be Started Until the
Montenegrin Troops Come In
From the Hills and Sur
render. '
filing of a $HUoo bond
The plaintiff avers that the council
declined to accept two bonds filed by
the company, not fulfilling the condi
tions required by the adopted resolu
tions. The plaintiff in praying that a
decree be made by the court asks that
the rights, powers and privileges en
joyed by the company be declared in-
Miss Maud Wetmore, chairman of the i valid providing the bond is not filed
within a certain date to the satisfaction
of the council.
The case of A. V. Clark vs. J. Ber
ton Fike of Marshfleld and L. S. Robie
of Hardwick, was filed in county court
. .1 .. 0"t I. ' ... . i 1
wtiitv, c'"' u-iiik nit? mituiiiib nnuieu.
F. J. Marshall is attorney for the plain
tiff.
man whoso wife's face was slapped on
the street and who took no other action
thaii to tell her to stay at home.
JOLIET STREETS
ARE FLOODED
FIVE FEET DEEI
Illinois City Is Having Its Worst Flood
in 14 Years and Nearly 1,000 People
Were Driven From Their Homes.
Joliet, 111., Jan. 21. The worst flood
since 1902 engulfed Joliet to-day. The
water ran five feet deep in the streets.
Nearly 1,000 persons have been driven
from their homes.
NATURALISTS IN SESSION.
Vermont Botanical and Bird Club Mem'
bers are in Rutland.
Rutland, Jan. 21. The Vermont Bo
tanical and Bird club members to the
number of 40 gathered at the Hotel
liardwell here to-day for two days ses
sion. I he faculties or .Middlebury col
lege and the University of Vermont were
well represented, as was the Fairbanks
museum at St. Jolmsbury, and there
are naturalists here from both sides of
the state. .Miss Annie Lorenz of Hart
ford, Conn., representing the Connecti
cut Botanical society, and C. H. Knowl-
ton of Hingham, Mass., a member of
the Xew Kngland Botanical club, are
guests of the Vermont organization.
Ihero were two sessions, this morn
ing and afternoon, for business and pa
pers, and the closing meeting comes to
morrow morning. To-night i'rof. George
Burns of the University of Vermont
TEACHERS GET
INSPIRATION
WANT PURCHASES DIVIDED.
at Montpelier
Central Labor Union Waits Upon the
Barre Chanty Department.
A committee from the Central Labor
union and the ahU-rmanio charity com
mittee met in conference in the council
chain tier at city hall last evening, the
meeting having been called at tho re-
i. quest or tnc labor men. Business for
At Conference of Washing- tha union Btorc wit,, n.fm.n,0 10 the
ton County Educators fu",,BM 'ot my:Vw (r 4!,arity ,.,e;
v I tinrtmcnr. v. a a tha aii)ni,.t thnf iwoini )
the attention of the two committees.
Organized labor was represented by Har
ry Dale as chairman, S. L, Ca.rdi, secre
tary of the Central Lubor union, and
Cyrus R. Hall, and the members of the
charity committee present were Alder
man O. D. Shurtleff and Alderman A. K.
Bruce.
It was stated that the labor commit
tee had conferred w ith the overseer of
the poor last week without ohtuiiiiii'r
. I . . . - a
LOntinUe any satisfaction. Members of the char
ity committer referred the labor men
to a clause in the city charter which
inhibits them from dictating to the
overseer in the matter of buying sup
plies for the indigent. While agreeing,
it was reported this forenoon, that tlo
C. L. U. was undoubtedly right in its
NEARLY 300 ATTEND
OPENING SESSION
Conference Will
Through Saturday
Forenoon
JOHN H. SENTER
DROPPED DEAD
A Prominent Attorney and
Public Official Had Just
Sent for Aid
HAD rny
Vs
MED OF
uT HEART
Kcarly 300 teachers gathered at the contention that the purchases should
high school building in Montpelier to-day be lalrly divided, the committee took
for the annual conference of the Wash- Ncaaion to commend the present over
anno fr imrl.4 il,n,. 1 . 1 ... -1 r. nu
ington County Teachers ass.at.or .. The hibjtion of d , fc . ti
MinfnrpmA will onrti inno tlirnilfrh Sflllir-I , . - r.. J b o
V I . , . . tinir lor supplies.
day forenoon, and much good promises Ai(Ierman"8hurtiefT told the commit
in onmo friivn thp Hcssioim. . ... ...
Thfl nnonincr noiisifitt wa holii nr. II .If ) I .
this forenoon in the auditorium of the ' W
...:n . :n...i.j 1 .i.,.,:.... ! i : i. ti : i i. 118 staveu tnai ne nan oeen nuie to se-
. . a . . . . . lelirA 11 llispltllir. hv htivmtr Hiinnlma frnm
Rev. Lewis C. (arson, pastor of the. ...... . . '
diurch of the Messiah in Montpelier, V-Ti . -If 1 i
H...n -l.inh Prin.in.l V,Iu-r,l s Ah. T1'6 U,T .committee suggested that the
fct f rnni,. ., n .rf,i,M. ,,f department endeavor to obtain a dis
. , . 6 , i ... count . from some of the union stores
welcome, which was responded to by ,. . . v . ,
,-, . . r, ' i, i t.' ,, ..i.i: s well as those that were designated
' , . , . r .l iu the conference by another term,
schools, the president of the association. ., , ' , CI
ti 1 .i , itw conference was the second meet-
Jill. I rilldllllH I Ul IIIO IWICIIUUII D. CCTt.f.I I. e . . .1
was given up to -addresses, interspersed " ' !tT3 lad totFrow ut of 1,0 R'
with music by the Montpclie. high school C- ,L- U; meUn ae;v
mien 11IC liiriJ llltril VI lllis CIL ,
rof. (Jeorge H. Perkins, l'rof. Harry F. Edwards. Mason S. Stone, the state com-
iow wild shrubs and trees of "rmont
may be adapted to lawn culture. The
lub formerly confined its efforts to mak-
ng a survey of the state through lo
cal branches to determine the distribu-
ion of bird and plant life, but it is now
aking up the economic side of ornithr
ology and botany, including forestry.
i here were taks and papers at the
utland meeting bv Dr. Ezra Brainerd
f Middlcbury, Prof. ' George P. Burns,
Ii- vVas Known as the "War
Horse" of Vermont .
Democracy
the
overseer, the mayor and the merchants
.Montenegrin troops nave no come n., fo , M fc d
from the hills and eurrendertd. Only ,iflo 0f llt8 ag a barrel o
inen are t.ne Hctuai iieguim&iuiis i.u ue
gin.
prolii
quor.
trine 'as
red li-
163 VESSELS SUNK
Mr. Wright said it was possible the
United States might have to light Eng
land after the present war because "if
there is anything that makes an Eng-
iTN RUSSIAN RATH Iislimn peevish it, is to disturb his
. I trade." The present preparedness pro
. , . . Krtt'Ui he said, was a step in the right
Petrograd Announces Great Destruction irection. but a miirhtv short sten."
"The entire program, he continued,
is based on two fundamental thoughts
FIVE NEGROES
WERE HANGED
FROM ONE LIMB
both of which can make a soldier while
you wait; the second is the thought that
you can get all the volunteers you
want."
Col. Roosevelt in his letter reiterated
his criticism of the administration's sub
To Turkish Sailing Craft in Black
Sea, the Raiding Ships Being
Russian Destroyers.
Petrograd, via Ixmdon, Jan. 21. The
oftViul communication yesterday reads:
"In the region of Dvinsk our artillery
eucccssfully bombarded an enemy col- marine warfare policy and announced
umr. which approached Schlossberg from mg preparedneg, program,
the west. On the middle Stripa we ..f Mieye he sttid( ..that we ghoul(1
stopped an attempt by weak enemy lul9e our miitary and naval program
units to approach our trenches. upon the ret(,ntion anJ defense of Alas-
"Northeast of Czernowitz, near Bar- ka Ifftwaii the panama CAnai and ,11
mc.Ie we caf.tiired the sector of an en- itg approach,.S) jm.iuding all the points
emy position. The enemy made five des- nf sm.i 4.r,rn ii ri, v n,.,
pcrate counter-attacks, all of which were an,i f ,,,... inr.i,ii t,a
j epiilsed with enormous enemy 'losses. fen80 f our C0'ast8 . t, ,
"On the mack: sea on Jan. 17 our tor- ,.i r,t i.. -... t.i; t f, i..
pedo boats raided the Anatolian coast,
destroying 163 sailing vessels, 73 of
which were loaded with various com
modities. Thirty men were taken pris
oner. Other vessels made their escape
on cur approach.
''Caucasus front: Our troops continue
navy we need ample coast defense
manned by 100,000 men and a mobile
regular army of 150,000 men.
"The proposed continental army is a
sham. It would be merely an incfli-
Icient rival of the National Guard. For
Bodies of Negroes Taken from Worth
County Jail at Sylvester, Ga., Last
Night Were Found to Con
tain Many Bullet Holes.
Albany, Ga., Jan. 21. Five negroes
were taken from the Worth county f!lil
at Sylvester last night and hanged to
one limb near Starksville. The bodies
contained many bullet holes.
Vi vui nwim v-wiiwiiMC I.. , . 'ix i
1 i a V II r lv at Huriniv 1 1 11 iw.ri.wl ti iiAi.nl.
l,nir urn-anil, on the center of the Turk- 7 " l"-"" ."
1 ., , , ,, , ty it mignt attract some men. lint we
ish army. Despite the great strength ol ' . . . ,
' ' . , r1 J i ii -.1 cannot expect men to sacntice business
TIIC J lin.lhll luirtru miu inc ciirraiicy ;(..(. .! ,1 ., . . ,i:0.l
diflicnlt local conditions our troop. , de- i ored t. theLsV pi
vBiopci coiur.ow business rivals as
coup. J no enemy was uiruwu jtuiii ins
positions and retired, suffering severe
losses in men and in war material of all
kinds. According to latest particulars
we captured at Koprukeui, near Ezerum,
suns, inmi'.tions, artillery and prisoners
"The emperor, hearing of this blow
against the Turks, has ordered his sin
cere gratitude to be expressed to the
gallant troops for their exploits and their
elf-ar;iicing service."
WARSHIP ATTACK REPULSED.
08
12
Turks Claim to Have Beaten
Ships in Gulf of Saros.
Constantinople, via London, Jan. 21,
3:20 a. m. An attack on the shore bat
teries of the (Julf of Saros, in which a
cruiser, a monitor, three torpedo boats
and sevtiu mine sweepers participated,
was repulsed on the morning of January
18, according to an official ronimunca
tion issued last night by the Turkish
war office. The communication follows;
"On the morning of the lHth an enniy
monitor protected by seven mine sweep
ers and cruiser accompanied by three
torpedo boats ntered the Gulf of Saros
end ooned fire, which as directed by
airmen. Our batteries vigorously re
plied and three shots were scon to hit
the rniiiser which withdrew with the
monitor. '
"Ihiring the afternoon the same cruis
er ojM-n.-d fire again and was hit by
shell, t,i,h fell' on devk. causing a
fire to break out. fhe immediately with
drew. Cauravua. frontA A battle which be
pan here lasted until evening. The ene
my's attempts to rlose in upon us were
Tendered futile by our counter attacks."
Reappointments By Gorernor Gates.
Kvernr O.Vw W. Gt-s h made
the following reprMitmnt: Oiarle
(i. MoO!le of j KokUad. board of phar
macy it three r-r; OirV I J. Wheel
er tt Pratt lefxuro. tviard of tiTthT
for three year: pr. tri-orpe St-phen of
Hartfr4. hoard cf etrirary exanmers
for fire rear.
disad-
patriotic
a permanent tiling.
They ought not to do it; and it is an
outrage to ask them to do it. Military
training should be required as a matter
of right of all."
DEFENDS WILSON POLICY.
London Chronicle Says People Do Not
Understand His Position.
London, Jan. 21. The Daily Chroni
cle devotes the most prominent position
on its editorial page to a defense of
President Wilson and his foreign policy.
The Chronicle declares that Mr. Wilson
occupies a position of exceptional diffi
culty, adding that "if the British press
and public took a little more trouble to
understand him and were more conscious
of the absurdity of lecturing a great
republic on what its president ought to
do it would lie much to the advantage
of the Anglo-American future."
Discussing the English attitude to
wards the I'nited States the Chronicle
savs:
"There is a section in the ftritish press
that is not treating the United States
strictly as a neutral power. They have
treated the I'nited States as if they
were one of the family.
"A recent number of an American
magazine contains a svnirium giving
the reason of English writers why Amer
ica should come into the war. This is
a piece of gra tuitions impertinence. We
have no business to advise Americans
what line of policy they should pursue."
COMPULSION BILL ADVANCED.
Passed the Committee of House of Com
mons Last Night.
London, Jan. 21. The military serv
ice bill passed through the committee of
the House of Commons at 11 o'clock
last night amid loud cheers.
Walter Hume Long, president of the
local government board in a speech clos
ing the discussion, said he desired to
remove the impression that under this
bill the government waV creating a great
monster in the form of a military ma
chine which would grab at any man
coming within its scope. There was no
intention that the war onice should act
with undue severity, but, on the con
trary, it intended to maintain the pres
ent system almost identical, but giving
it a statutory position it had hitherto
not occupied.
Philippine Snowden, a Socialist, speak
ing as an opponent of the bill, paid a
GIRL'S GOING STILL MYSTERY.
Pretty 17-year-old Geraldine Morrison
Left St. Johnsbury Sunday.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 21. Mystery sur
rounds the disappearance of Geraldine
Morrison, 17-year-old daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Keulien Morrison, who has
been missing Bince Sunday. The girl
is beli.-ved to be in Boston. Her father
and brother returned from that city
yesterday after a fruitless search for
I city, barring one, who sided with the
workingmen, was neutral in contests be
tween employers and employes.
DIED AT ORANGE.
erkins and Prof. A. K, Pieterson of the I missioner of education, was a speaker, Z-u. I 1 i i '
i taking up the matter of education in Ver- - r'""r . 1 l""
mont; Miss Kebccca W. Wright of Mont- .r I ...w...v
nelier. secretary of the state library com- sported that every clergyman in the
- - - - .
mission, talked on 'flow the V ermont
Free Library Commission Helps Teach
ers"; Miss Mary M. Patrick, teacher
training specialist at Uarton. talked on
"Teaching Children How to Study," and
Dr. Edward 1). Collins, professor of ped i
gogy at Middlcbury colege, spoke on 1 he Francis Bisson Was Formerly a Resi
Basis and Applications ot .Method. jenf- j Barre
The early Dart of this afternoon's r-e-
bi'oii was given up to inspection of the Francis Philip Bisson, aged 70, passed
school exhibits, after which there were away at the home of his son, Philip
departmental conferences. In the list of Bisson, in Orange Ihursday afternoon
elementary school conferences. Sunt. Geo. t 5:30 o'clock, the end following a long
J. Seager of the Barre Town schools pre- fenoa or lulling nealtn. Air. uisson was
sided over a conference at which Mrs. a lormcr resident oi tiarre, having moved
Annie E. Snyder, teacher training ape- with his son to Orange 12 years ago,
cialist, gave a talk on the Quigley mcth- or eight years after he. came to this
od of number, Miss Margaret IJohcny of city irom Canada, liu was born in
the Barre schools spoke on primary read- Saint Marie of Bcuce, P. Q., in 1840.
ing m grade two, and Airs. Charles K. Mia nrsi marriage tooK place in M. llel
Beeman of Williamstown spoke on read- en of Chester P. Q., Oct. 2.", 1800, when
mg anil language tn grades four and live, he was wedded to Miss Delima lurnelle
Supt. J. Allen Hunter of Aorthrield fnirvivmg children born of that union
presided over a conference in which l'rin- are: Phjlip Bisson of Orange, Henry
cipal Emma Jean Lewis of Montpelier land tugene Bisson of East Barre, Euse
talked on penmanship (Palmer method), be Bisson of Windsor Mills, P. Q., and
SIiss Mabel E. Howe of Montpelier on Joseph Bisson of V ictoriaville, P. Q. Mrs.
problem method in history, and Miss Bisson s death occurred in the early
niversity of Vermont, Burlington, Miss
ez A. Howe of St. Johnsbury, Leston
Wheeler of Jamaica, Mrs. A. B. Mor
gan of Woodstock, Jay G. Underwood
of Hartland, Mra. Jiellie F. Hynn of
Burlington, Miss Lorenz, Mr. Knowlton,
Mrs. Emily H. lerry of Jnorthampton
Mass., and Miss Adelaide L. Denton of
Saratoga, N. Y.
JURY BOX FILLED
IN HATCH CASE
And Three Witnesses Were Heard in Lo
eating Scene Where Sumner Brown
Lost His Life.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 21. A jury was
completed to-dav to try Harlow Hatch
on the charge of manslaughter in the
death of Sumner Brown ,in St. Johns
bury lust Julv. The list is as follows:
Cakin L. Clark, St. Johnsbury.
Claude Watson, Lyndon ville.
L. E. Johnson, Waterford.
A. W. CofTrin, Groton.
Levi V. Dean. Sutton.
Davis Frechette, St. Johnsbury.
If. It. Fyler, Burke.'
Edwin A. Gray, St. Johnsbury.
F. L. Jutikins, Barnet.
Homer E. Moore, Peacham.
Azro M. Peck, St. Johnsbury.
S. C. Richardson, Waterford.
After the completion of the jury, three
witnesses were put on the stand to de
scribe the location of the slaying of
Brown. They were H. II. Jcnks, a pho
tographer, Harold B. Burgess, an archi
tect, and H W. Randall, the owner of
the block where Hatch's poolroom was
located.
the office of Clarence II. Pitkin, Mont-
pelier, and was admitted to the bar ie
Mary M. Patrick of Barton on "Teaching 70s and in 1878 he was married to Miss ' Mx.rch, 1870. During the period be-
John H. Senter, attorney, gubernato
rial candidate . in l!t()0, twice mayor cf
Montpelier and for, 25 years a dominant
Democratic figure in the state, died sud
denly early last evening in his apart
ments in the Argus building in Montpe
lier. Death was due to angina pectoris,
it being his third attack in five years.
Mh Senter had passed most of the day
in his office and in county court, and
it was about 0 o'clock that he made his
way home.
After eating a hearty meal he com
plained to Dexter Grover, who has Wen
in his employ for several years, that he
was in much pain around his heart.
Alarmed, Mr. Grover telephoned for a
physician and, being unable to get in
toucft with one immediately, went out
to locate one personally. Dr. C. II. Burr
was finally communicated with and he
hurried to Mn Sentcr's rooms, lie
reached there too late, death apparently
having overtaken Mr, Senter while he
was standing, as he lay on his back on
the floor with an ugly bruise on the back
of his head.
The bods was removed to the home of
his son, Clarence H. Senter, on Loomis
street upon advice from the son, who is
now located at Hartford, Conn., and un
til his arrival it is not known when the
funeral services will be held.
The passing" of John H. Senter removes
one of the most prominent men in Mont
pelier. He was one of the ablest lawyers,
in the state, had a large practice in
Montpelier and in Wnterbury, where he
had conducted an office for the last few
months, and for years voters of Mont
pelier had been accustomed to have Mr
Senter preside at caucuses.
John Henry Senter was born nt Cabot,
Nov. 11, 1848, son of Dearborn Bean Sen
ter and Susan C. (Lyford) Senter. Ha
attended the public schools and high
school of Concord, N. II., and afterward
he taught school in Dover, N. II., Gar
land, Me., and in Vermont, completing 4?
terms in all. He liegan to study law ii
warm tribute to tha generous way the j her. Detective agencies are at work,
bill had been piloted through the House
by Andrew Bonar Law and Mrs. Long.
Mr. Bonar Law then expressed the
grateful thanks of himself and Mr. Long
to all sections for the restraint shown
in committee.
John Dillion, Nationalist, added that
he had never seen a bill which might
easily have led to passionate heated de
bate conducted through the House with
greater skill or in a more conciliatory
manner. He thought that Premier As
quith had never shown greater skill than
in leaving its conduct to Mr. Long and
Mr. Bonar Law,
H. W. CLEMENT WANTS WATER.
TEUTONS HAVE CAPTURED
NEARLY 3,000,000 MEN
London, Jan. 21. An ' Amster
dam dispatch to ti e Central News
sa( that the total bonty of the
Teutonic allies during 17 months,
as summed tip at ienna. is as
f.dlow: Nearly S'"!! prison
em. l".i rnn. 4".1 ti.arhine
puns and 47",i' u iare kih'me
trea of etwitiv trritorT.
Claims He Is Deprived Of It By Rutland
jCountry Club.
Rutland. Jan. 21. Asking for an in
junction which will restrain the Rutland
Country club from taking water from an
aqueduct which he claims rightfully be
longs to him, and also asking for an as
sessment of damages which the taking
of the water has caused him, together
with the club's share in an outlay in im
provements, Henry W. Clement of this
city has brought a suit in chancery
against the Country club, the papers be
ing filed with loimty I lerk H. A. Har
man yesterday afternoon. Attorney
Walter S. Fenton app-aj for Mr. Clem
ent, while appearances have been filed
fir the Country club by Attorneys Ed
win W. Lawrence and M. C. Webber of
this city. The pap.-rs pray for a tem
porary injunction and also a permanent
order which will prevent the president
and omcrrs of the ( ountry club from
taking the water by moons of pipes or I
valves from the pipe which should right-!
fully feed the home of Mr. dement at
the corner of Grove street and Field ave
nue. Mr. Clement allege that by the ac
tions of the defendant he ha been to a
great amount of irwonvenicnoe beiles
being at a monetary !o. At times
whew he should have had an in h stream
running into the houe undt-r some pres
sure he Via liven unable to prt fTtoisrh
water irsto the bament to feil the boil
er in ronnert trt With te b-t!rg ap
paratus, the hrtjre of watr mu ns
but there is nq clew and her parents
fear she has been enticed away.
She was a pupil in the ninth grade
of the public schools, very large for
her age, strikingly ptvtty and dark
eyes and hair and pink checks. She oc
cupied a room with an older sister and
retired as usual with her Sunday night.
In the morning she was gone. A note
said she had left but would return some
time if they would take her back.
Trainmen on the Boston and Maine
railroad recognized the girl and she was
seen leaving the north station in Bos
ton alone' Monday morning at 7:30. She
oas never been in the rity and is in
capable f looking out for herself. Her
mother is ill and prostrated over the
affair.
WAS CARRYING BOMB.
When He Was Arrested 'in a New York
City Throng.
Xew York, Jan. 21. A man carrying
a suitcase containing what the police
declare was a bomb of great explosive
power was arrested last night in the
midst of a throng of several hundred
persons on the main promenade of the
Brooklyn bridge, by detectives attached
to the" "bomb squad." He had been
trailed for several minutes through the
archways of the municipal building near
the bridge. At police headquarters the
prisoner said he was Michele Grassiano,
32 years old. Two hours later Ieonardo
Di Vireo, 37 years old, was taken into
custody. Both are charged with having
n their p"Sseion a brnnb with intent
to destroy life and property.
After an examination of the Suit ease.
Captain Tunney of the "bomb squad,"
declared be was convinced it was aimilar
to remnants of suit cje found after
the bomb explosion at police head'juar
trs and M. Patrick's rathedraL A com
parison will be made by experts.
The two prisoners are said to have
been constantly under police surveillance
for the past three months. According
t det"itive Gransiano frequently at-tend.-d
mcet.nc cf a proiip e-f arsrrhit
in liar't-m and also was idcntitied with
a jrrnun who nr t in 14th street-
Children How to Study." In the school
gymnasium Miss l.ose Luna of Mont
pelier presided over a conference where
the speakers and their subjects were
Mrs. William J. Tindall of Montpelier on
Physical Culture in Schools," various
Montpelier primary teachers on games
for primary children, and Miss Florence
L. Slupman of Montpelier on folk Danc
ing."
In the auditorium of the high school,
meanwhile, a rural school demonstration
was being given by Mrs. Margaret O.
Fitzhugh of Montp.dit rj in another room,
a primary conference was being conduct
ed by Miss Jennie C. Allingham, teacher
raining specialist, Montpelier seminary;
in still another, an intermediate confer
ence led by Supt. Charles R. Beeman of
llliamstown; and, finally, a grammar
school conference, with Supt. Xorman
Frost of Watcrburv as leader.
Principal H. II. Jackson of Spaulding
gh school presided over a high school
conference at which Dr. Edward H. Col-
ins 'was a speaker; and Ira Richardson
of Montpelier, H. D. Hopkins of Mont
pelier and I. V. Cobleigh of Burlington
gave talks at a commercial teachers con
ference. This evening ther will be a reception,
followed by an entertainment. The busi
ness of the conference will lie concluded
to-morrow forenoon, when two chief ad
dresses will lie given, one by Prof. James
L. MeConaughy of Dartmouth college on
"Habit and Memory in the Schoolroom,"
and the other by Prof. Wil S. Monioe of
the state normal school, Montclair, X. J.,
whose subject will be "The Problem of
Educational Values."
Clairina Dumont, whose death occurieu
25 years ago. Mrs. Fred Carrier of
Orange, Mrs. Antoine Bisson of Orange
and Mrs. Hector Irembley of Williams
town are the ' only children surviving
from the second marriage.
Funeral services are to be held at St.
Sylvester's church in Graniteville Sat
urday morning at !) o'clock, the parish
priest, Rev. Fr. Joseph Turcot, olliciat
ing. Interment will be made in the Cath
olic cemetery on Becklcy street in this
city. It is requested that friends omit
flowers.
90 CASES LISTED.
STONECUTTER SHOT
WIFE AND HIMSELF
On the Trial Calendar of Vermont Su
preme Court for February Term.
I lie trial calendar of Vermont su
preme, court for the February term,
which open's the first day of next month,
has been issued and contains a total of
00 cases listed for hearing, nearly all
of them having been on the January
term calendar and were continued.
There are six state cases included in
the list, and Washington county has
eight as follows: K. C Bowers Gran
ite Co., vs 'Drew Daniels Granite com
pany, assumpsit; William B. Tumey
vs. E. N. Normandeau, audita querela;
Emily K. Weed vs. Berton A. Hunt;
William Rumble vs. John W. McDonald
et al, assumpsit; Henry Russ vs. Mi
chael Good, trespass; Slate vs. Jacob
Aaron, operating automobile; State vs.
Mary John, selling; State vs. Valerie
Bergonr.i, selling intoxicating liquor.
FIVE YEARS FOR STABBING.
Mrs. Josephine Coletti Was Killed and
Her Husband Was Seriously In
jured at Quincy, Mass.,
Last Night.
Quincy, Mass., Jan. 21 Mrs. Josephine
Coletti wa shot and killed last night
by her husband, Frank, who sent a pis
tol bullet into his own head with se
rious, although probably not fatal con
sequences, according to the police. The
shooting occurred outside the hmise of
Coletti's parent and from the looks of
the ground the police express the belief
that a struggle occurred.
Coletti had been working a a stone
cutter in Fitrw illiam. X. H, whik- his
wife, whom lie married ten months ago,
spent most of her time with her par
ents in Mil ford. Mas.
Exmmtvn shwel tnst fuse from
the ltrttrj of fipe and considerable the lrcb pro-tH t1roug! hole im
Death ef Montpelier Woman.
Mary, wife of Philliss Chenette. died
at 11 o'clock last night at their home
on Tlcasant View street in that city.
She was .I! year of age ami came to
Montpelier from Concord, X. II. Beside
her huslwnd. she leaves many children.
Alfred Albert Attacked Emile Hill with
Jackknife.
Burlington, Jan. 21.- Alfred Albert.
the Finlander, who stabbed Emile Hill
at their boarding house in Winooski laxt
Saturday night, was in city court yes
terday and received a sentence of not
less than five nor more than seven years
in the state prison at , Windsor. Al
bert asked that the court direct the
state's attorney to file an information
against him charging him with the of
fense upon which he was arraigned, that
of making as assault with malicious in
tent to maim and disfigure Hill, to
which he pleaded guilty. The state's
attorney recommended that the sentence
lie eight years, ten years being the max
imum. Albert's only excuse was that he
was under the influence of liquor when
he did the stabbing. One of his thrusts
proved very serious, the jackknife whii b
lie usvd entering Hill's back close to the
spine,
RAILROAD STATION BURNED.
Ludlow
Clerks' Notice.
Rutland R. R. the Losers at
Thursday Afternoon,
Ludlow, Jan. 21. The Rutland rail
road station in this village was practi
cally destroyed by fire yesterday aft
ernoon. 1 e ware ws oiwovcre.i about
1:45 olK-k and the firemen w.-re
prompt in refponding thouyh tlie loca-tX. H.: J
twecn the time when he taught school
and studied law, Mr. Senter was a clerk
in several stores in Montpelier.
After practicing law for six years in
Warren he again came to Montpelier and
formed a partnership with Harlan W.
Kemp and the firm practiced law until
1891. Since .188.) he was a director and
for 11 years secretary of the Union Mu
tual Fire Insurance company.
Before Montpelier became a city, Mr.
Senter was village attorney and wag also
secretary of the village board of trade.
In 1888 he was admitted to practice law
in the circuit court of the I'niteil States
and in the district courts of Vermont.
He was appointed national bank ex
aminer by President Cleveland and on
Aug. 24. 188(1. was made commissioner of
the United States circuit court for the
district of Vermont by appointment of
-Judge H. H. Wheeler.
He was a delegate to the Democratic
national convention held in St. Louis, at
which Cleveland was nominated for pres
ident and in 1804 was apHiinted United
States district attorney.
In 1000 he was ..a candidate for gov
ernor on the Democratic ticket and from
that year until 1004 he was a member of
the Democratic national commit tee. For
mally years he was on the state commit
tee of his chosen party, serving as assist
ant secretary and secretary. He was
state's attorney for Washington county,
1003 4; member of the state tax com
mission in lNlm. and a member of the
commission to build the present county
jail. In 1898 he was elected mayor of
Montpelier and was returned to office
the following year. Wing the city's ex
ecutive head when Berlin across the Wi
nooski river was annexed. It was in
1000 that he represented the city in the
legislature, where he was chairman of
the committee on corporations, sei-ond
member of the committee on judiciary
and on the committee to revise the stat
utes. In addition to the more prominent of
fices which he filled most satisfactorily,
he was for many years a justice of the
peace, was superintendent of schools in
Warren and Montpelier for a time and
held other town oflices. always ready and
willing to serve the city, state or coun
try in any capacity within his splendid
ability.
Mn Senter was a memlier of Aurora
lodge, and Kir. Solomon's chapter ot'
Mnsons, a Knight Templar, a mcuilier of
Mt. Sinai temple. Mvstie Shrine, and be
longed to the Montpelier lodge of Elks
uid to the Vermont State Bar associa
tion. He was elvted as a delegate from
Ihc state association at tlje annual meet
ing last fall to the Montreal Bar associa
tion meeting which is to lie held the lat
of next month.
Ife was married on Xov. 3n, l.",, tn
Addie S. Martin of Wnrren. daughter of
Carlo and Mary (Ainsworthl Msrtm
nd to them rie children were Imn
follow: Frank Ginevera. di-d r"J:
(lareme Hijrani, born ls7", now in en
ploy of P'to-nix Insumm-e company and
bsated at Hartford, Corn., slt'non'i re
taining residence in Mimt prlirr: Mlc!
A. Idie. w t'e or irl v 1. I.ol.liins. Heme.
n H. Senter. jr a memlier r f
da ,
tt tide f the suit cat.
Th.re will be a rjru!ar meeting of the :tHn ol the Miu.i.ng wi.kb is on a Hecp the w sn!ngtn county har. like !!' r
P.. C. I. P. A, I'val 211. Friday. Jan. 21, hill, was hart t reach. The roof i.f an I brother, but now l -l tug wit'i -at
7:."t't V- m- A'l must attend to r-gis-the building fell in and the Mm ture j nsiiin ov-r-"s ngimrnt "iiir i'c-c in
j,r. Oerks will receive Vskout pay. waa -ar!y ruineii. Mu. h of the dam-j I ln !-rs: (Ir Vav Nrnr d West
TVt wi!l be a dance after ti,s meeting i 2 ws from water. The business of j Ifrt'or.l, .Vr. ctt. r .'..el a rnn!r nf
art refrehn-tits. 'me all. Per or-"t;- station will be eondiKted tcrrprr- I rnr ag i. Thr re tn frar.Mid.!:er,
iet X TbvsMsme KeMos, rec tec 'y in a car ilaei on a tiding. i.rthy M ar. l Ili.l.j. s i,i. r F...1 '..-,,
