v r -
f
it
.
1
r
i. , , ,
It
J f -i A- ik V
PPIDE, PBQ3PBMTT
..i .
TCL 6, BO. 60.
LovCTOTOjr, ímr eszzsa, today, jaxuaby il, me.
I
I
lllEVr.iEXICOl
I STATE HEYS
IVaMara HaaiaiH UatM Ml Bank.
caiaa arcar.
Jaa. IT-IT. Caavaatlaa or Allanta Illa-paaa-Aawrleaaa
at Albuauarua.
kUrra. Maatlac Panhandle and (South
waaicr ttlockmana' Aaawlatlona at
AlbvqucriM.
Eaatera New Mexico la filling np
Hn new Mttlera.
New Mexico Uit year produced IS,
Cl.OOO pound of wool.
A company with 125,000 baa been
formed at Demln to ratae bogs.
Over 160,000 pounda of butter were
arnt out from Tucumcart last year.
A contract bai been let for the In
atallation of a water ayatem at Dex
ter. Ira Tbomaa, catcher of the Red Cox,
ha bought a block of Curry county
land.
A moonlight ichool, Grant county 'a
first, baa been organlted at Crock-
man.
John Hudd of Dawson waa aerloua
ly Injured when a touring car turned
turtle.
The Tularoaa pontofftre aafe was
blown open and leu than $100 se
cured. Ceo. RelsingJr of Clovla accidentally
shot himself while taklug a gun from
a wagon.
Work has been commenced on the
Carlsbad armory, which lit to cost
nearly $20,000.
, Katancla la inaugurating a tree
planting campaign (or the beuutlflca
lion of the town.
Already over 5,oo) han been raised
fur maintaining the New Mexico dis
play at San Diego.
Work lias been started on the er
manent repair of the bridge oyer the
Pecos river near ArtcHia.
J. W. Kelaoy of Jordan reports that
a prairie fire burned over 200 acres
in that section recently.
Deming philanthropists have organ
ized an associated charities organiza
tion ta care for the reedy.
Over 100 cara of alfalfa wen- xlilp
ped from Otis last week, most of it
bringing $12.50 f. o. b. Oil.
Work is progressing rapidly on the
tu-w dam being built by the Rayado
tract people In Colfax county.
The new. government sanitarium
aud hospital at Aejcalero has been
accepted from the contractor.
Over 3,400 turkeys were shipped
from Hagerraan for the Thanksgiving
and Christmas trade lust year.
Klght blocks, comprising the prin
cipal streets of the business disirict
of Silver City, are now paved.
J. Maseeh, a Slav miner employed
at the Navajo mine, at Gallup, was
fatally Injured by a fall of rock.
Manley Mason Chase, for forty
years a resident of Colfax county, died
at the Chase ranch near Cimarron.
In the fiscal year ended Nov. 30,
lust, 360,325 head of cattle were In
spected for shipment In New Mexico.
One thresher at Cuervo reports
threshing 336,000 pounds of beans the
pust season, or more than ten car
loads. The property of the National Coppei
Company at Silver City was sold un
ler court order to St. Louis partiei
(or $4,500.
The month of December wai
marked by abundant bunshine and rac
only two days on which the moreno
hovered near zero.
Guadalupe Gonzalo, accused ol
shooting Manm-t Rubio at Roswell
has been bound over to the grand jury
in the sum of $:!,00o..
.Work is progressing rapidly on the
now LovuiKton high school, which is
to cost $ÁI0l.
At Tularosa, an outlaw horse le
ri'ntiy dragged an employe of Mrs. S
):. Harbour, Eugenio Jurado, to death
after throwing him against u post.
Two thousand copie of the Spanish
codification of the laws have been re
ceived from the publishers by the sec
rotary of state. They cost $10,000.
The high price of gasoline in New
Mexico is being Investigated by tin
State Corporation Commission, whicb
has also asked the federal trade com
mission to look into the subject
State Sohool Superintendent Alvat
T. Whlto received an invltntion to at
tend the national conference on Imml
gratlon and Americanization of thi
National Americanization Commute
to be held In Vhiludelphla Jan. 1!
and 20.
Incorporation papers were filed bj
the Llano Irrigation Company of Ques
ta. Taos county. It Is a communit)
affair, capitalized at $10,!b0 of whlct
$9,678 is paid up. the shares being $:
par. Water from Cabresto lake la t
be diverted to irrigate the lands.
Wild horses have Increased to aucb
an extent in New Mexico in the past
V?w years as to be a menace to the
domestic herds, according to the an
nual report of the Cattle Sanitary
Board. The board baa therefore sus
pended previous restrictions, and will
allow the rounding up, ule and ship
Bent of 'these un branded horses..
That New Mexico has enjoyed In th
year Just closing unprecedented educa
tlonal progress la tha belief of Alvat
N. Whit, 'State auperlntendent o:
schools, In a review of the yetr'i
ork. ... ."
uaqraan.Er HIGH FIGURES
COVtRNMCNT LAND ENTRIES
LAIT YEAR X2M,nS ACRE.
Harnett d Entries Numbered 1.111,
and Covered Tatal ef
Acraesute telected Land.
W Mina Kraaaaaar V'B.. S artl .
SanU Fe. N. M.-ln the last fiscal
year 14,(39 goverament Mnd entries,
covering 3.2M.M5J1 aerea of lanu,
were made la New Mexico. Of th:a
number, 1.1 IS were homestead entrle.
and covered a toul of 1.358.U53.M
aerea.
These figures are shown by the de
tailed report of the 'commissioner of
the General Land Office. Outalde of
the homestead entries, the majorities
of the entries made represent ata to
land aelrrtlons.
The entries by the United Bute
land districts were as follows: Clay
ton, 2.850. covering 464.374.71 acres;
Fort Sumner. 1.237. and 4 13.887. IS
acres; Las Cruces, 2.140, and r.iij,
925.91 arres; Rose ell. 3.5U9. and 1,
148.510.34 acres; Santa Fe. 3.045. and
446.407.08 acres; Tucumrarl. 1.858, anl
257.800.2C acres.
Leva Balm Plaintiff Scores Point
Santa M. .With A. R. Manby, de
fendant In the $50,000 breach of prom
ise suit brought by Margaret Waddell,
on the aland, counsel for defense in
the Federal Vourt engaged In a deter
mined effort to prove that the en
gagement was broken by mutual
agreement and that thereafter '.heir
relations were merely those of "pals."
Judge Pope. In overruling a motion
that the jury be Instructed to find for
defendunt. indicated his attitude, as
to the evidence-by saying: "The let
ters In the case leave too much to
Inference. The mutuul Intent Is what
controls." Munfoy entered a compre
hensive denial of the charges of Miss
Waddell.
Wind Demolishes Many Buildings.
Santa Vé. Advices from Springer
report thousands of dollars' damage
done by a wind of almost rycUnlc
velocity at Cimarron. Colfax county.
The brick public school building,
Western Union Telegraph office and
numerous other buildings were demol
ished and wire communication pros
trated. No lives were lost so far as
can be learned.
Moonlight School Pupila 18 to 70.
Santa Kb .Mm and women as old
as 60 and 70 areaearnlug tj read and
write In the "moonlight schools" of
Santa Fe County, the first in the state,
established for the first time in this
school year. Over I.Oihi are enrolle!
according to a report by the county
superintendent, the ages ranging from
18 to 70. These night schools are
held from two to four times weekly.
State Mine Inspector Resigna.
Santa Fe. Reese II. Ileddow of Gal
lup, state mine inspector for the past
three and a half years, has filed his
resignation with the governor, effec
tive February 1. An examination for
applicants tor the position is an
nounced for January 29.
Boy of 19 Shoots Girl of IS.
Silver City. Because alio refused
to mairy him, redro Montes, 19, rode
up behind Refugia VlUanueva, 15, m
she was walking home from church,
and shot her twice In the head with
a revolver. Montes rode to the jail,
when he surrendered.
Dies After Lighting Fire With Oil.
Santa Fe. Mrs. W. G. Johnson,
wife of the postinuster at Roy, Mora
comity, Ik dead as the result of try
ing to liuM the kitchen fire with kero
sene. Confesses Killing Man and Woman.
llllltiboro. News was received hero
that Albert Hoiirhln, 17, had confessed
to the police at rteaumont, Tex., tout
he killed R. II. Hammond and Madamo
Dolores, a palmist, near Los Palomas,
Sierra County, November 27. The
boy had boon working for Hammond
He said Hammond mistreated him.
He told the police he shot Hammond
in his tent with a rifle and that ho
fired at the woman as she advanced.
He Is said to have admitted taking
$3,000 from Hammond's trunk.
Ranchman Found Dead from Gunshot
Clayton. Samuel Smith, a rich
ranchman living on Cinurron river,
thirty miles from here, was (ounl
dead in a country road some distance
from bis home, with a bullet in his
head. It is supposed he committed
suicide. Family trouble la believed to
have been the cause.
Over $1,000 a Student
Santa Fe The School of Minea ex
pended last year $35,862.36 and haJ
thirty-three students enrolled.
National Guard Makes Report
Santa Fe. A financial report of.the
New Mexico national guard for the
past fiscal year, made to the governor
by Adjt Gen. Harry T. Herring, la
aald to be the most complete report
of the kind ever made to a state execu
tive. It ahowa a total of federal anJ
state funda of tome $67,000 waa avail
able tor the guard daring the year.
Approximately $26,000 waa spent mi
der federal allotment for arms, sup
plies, ammunition, equipment camp
purposes and rifle practice.
PRODUCTION IN ALL LINES OP
ENDEAVOR IN NEW MEXICO
GREATLY INCREASED.
Interacting Figure on Development at
Sute In Year HIS Shew Bright
Future That Lies Befar
All Its People.
-
New Mexico 1915 Statistics.
Can per pioducUva. Ii.v.
hiu uila.
Iad. l i:.I M(l pound.
Xim-. t I'i.imi inunda.
Cual. .iMi tuna.
W h-ai, I.Ha.non pounds.
(.'urn, I ni.im p.,unla.
i, J, i m oon poumlK.
A nil. a. :;.V0 liarrrla
l'tiiat.Ha. koo.tMm buahrlx
a1lU, III.OOIMMMi
Caul hlppril. SA.li; heail.
tihrrp ahlpp.''l. I :v.VU0 ntaU.
Khrp, 2.A0u.000.
M oni, l4..iiM).uA.
Eipriiilril fur education, IJ.liO.MO.
Arra. ;.) I J a r. a
I'utilk- lamia, :7.4:.;.3 acres.
Mlats lamia. U.i.UH.tJ crea (,
IU.IÍJ7 acraa aHri lao i.
t'oreal ri-atrvaa, k.j!;' CtO u rn.
titlitr rawrvca. :.M li acres.
Crop production. tK.OU.Onti.
ttaiiKC pr.Hltn lion. 0i.n.
Min.-r.il rolii'iion. (".Mlii.iniO.
MMiiiifiiriiirrU in Mínela. ( 1 1 ooo.oOO.
Taxalila aaapiii.iil, tlo:,.vvO,uot.
ItMnk dpomlN. l21.iMHi.nnu.
I'tiulii- rrvi-nui a. t&.iiiHi.unii.
Intonia taxvo ii.tiil. IMl.17.V3t.
liolil product i $l,i(l0,flU.
fklvar, t:.n3S.0iiU.
Santa Fó.-ln lDl.'.. for the first
time in history, New Meiico produced
more than $J".in0,0fl) worth of ore;
for the first time, the value of pro
duction by its farms and ranches ex
ceeds $io,iiiiii,oiin. Add to this the
production of Its ten million acres of
forest area, of Its shops, mills and
factories. Its home industries, and the
total exceeds $1H0.0J0,000, and that
too, for the first tine, aaya the Al
buquerque Journal.
In other words, the year of Hiló,
despite adverse conditions elsewhere
In the world, lias been on o of great
development, of growth and prosper
ity. Fifteen years ago, the taxable as
sessment of New Mexico was $12,
UOO.000; this year It Is $305,000,000;
fifteen years ago the population was
195.0U0; today It la 42Ú.0OO; fifteen
years ago, Now Mexico had 12,311
farms; today It has 45,000; fifteen
years ago, the census gave the value
of all farm property at $5:1,767.824 ;
ten years later, at $159,447,990; today
It exceeds a quarter of a billion dol
lars. Fifteen years ago New Mexico
produced $157,000 worth of eggs;
five) yewo ago, $522,000; thia year,
$7Su.o8qV The value of manufactured
products fifteen yeara ago was
$2.1 1,0(10; five years ago. $7,743,000;
this year it exceeds $10,000,000. Five
years ago, the production of all the
mines and quarries was $5,587,900;
last year the production of gold, sil
ver, copper, zinc and lead alone, was
$11.(M.!32; of coal. $6,230,871. and
this year, the total mineral production
exceeds $20,000,000. Still, the sur
face la merely scratched and Instead
of 4.000,000 tons of coal, the state
might produce 40,000,000 tons a year
and still have enough to last two cen
turies more.
An Agricultural State.
When it is considered that of an
area exceeding 7S.000.OOO acres only
half a million acres are under irriga
tion, then It may well be doubted that
New Mexico is an agricultural state.
Nevertheless, the product of Its farms
exceeds that of its mines, manufactur
ing and lumbering industries taken
together. Fifteen years ago, along
C00 miles of the Santa FÓ railroad In
eastern New Mexico and adjoining
country, not a single shipment of
wheat was received. This year, 10,
000 cars of wheat were shipped from
points along the samo line. Ten years
ago, eastern Mora and Colfax coun
ties were a drouth-stricken wilder
ness. From the little town of Roy
alone this year, ten cars of beans
were shipped in one week lust, full,
and five wheat elevators have been
built in its immediate vicinity this
year to handle the wheat. Steam plows
and tractors have displaced the prim
itive sheep and goatherdcrs, and au
tomobiles the lumbering schooners.
Twenty years ago, but few more than
7.000 tax receipts were issued in tho
entire state; thia year that many have
been issued by the treasurer of Quay
county alone.
This winter Is belnr, completed the
Rio Grande irrigation project, which
will furnish water for 250,000 acres
or an area equal to one-half the total
under Irrigation now in the entire
state. This la but an Intimation of the
transformation that it being wrought
in the southwest.
Scientific Farming.
Another factor Is the scientific dry
farmer. Twenty thousand persons
tiled on government land in New Mex
ico the past year and most of them
engaged In dry farming. Despite pes
simistic predictions, most of them had
good crops, many of them are supple
menting .their crops with products
from small dairies and poultry farms.
Fifteen years ago, the population of
what Is now Curry, Roosevelt north
ern' Chaves, eastern Guadalnne. Ouav
and southern Union counties, was less
than 5,000; today It exceeds 85,000.
Fifteen years aco there were 49 non.
000 acr,es of government land In New
Mexico: toaar there are 27.788 ret
acres and this area Is beln filad nnnn
at the rate of 3.000,000 acres a year.'
The State bai 7.816.837 aerea of lanit
and Still has 4.252.800 aerea eomlna-
to It from the public domain. In na
tional tores ta nor are 8,582,800 acres,
In reservations. 4.564.801 aerm.-ln al.
lata ownership almost $0.000.000 aerea
ttteeft laduatry.
With the lopoartag of sutlers, it
was eipectcd Oat llvestork values
would decline, becaaae of the cutting
up of the free rango. But Ue value
of ahetp. cattle, goats and horses la
New Mexico to kith r today than It
waa tea years ago, and an Important
Industry la being added la the feeding
of slock for packlüt houaee. Tha
lliMa mrm wnrih luu. ru... i ma
W - ,.9V,OW
head, worth ae.seo.ouo. bt-ina ahincad.
Lout of the state this year, and W.W0V!oi.'-ü
000 worth Of Wool being produced"'1- fUtlt annual ronvrnllon Colo.
The dire prediction that the creation
of forest reserves would hurt stock, n",umt' -aiun. at
Interests has prove a fallacy, for the lin:;a7.w,,,r" Ux E,oc 8how
range la BOW protectod, and 8clentiflCFrb l l-l Annual convantlon Colo
and business methods making the i "va"''"1 mnttt Aaa.K.aiii.. at
:?,000.000 acres ef free range still re-pV ii-Mmin- it.P..bik-an 8tat
did two decades sgo. ioi hpr.nna.
Of gtapie crop., the lvP.r,ment ofWp:V,;.Vr,'a.,f.r,;."í-.'J,':ae
Agriculture gives the following pro- luuuatiiai tipuaition at tci.r.
duction for 1915: Com. 2,X60.oo) ,
buHhela; wheat M'.'h bushels; Jf,ve Ue,, of "h""l,r w,
oats. 2.1C0.000 bushel.; barley. :6l..,',l,'d ,l V"ld'''
C00 bushels; aotatoer, 8nn,ooo bush- Tds ''''e of Wm. Ilarth of U-nver
els; bay, 412,000 tons be administered by bla daughter,
Minina. Charlotte.
Nothing short of luurvclnun hut
beeu the development of ihi minina
Industry. In 1911. New Mexico pro- Hron-
duced only 4,057,ihiO pounds of cop- Murli interest Is being manifested
per: last year It produced 5V.ii7.92i,n K)H roads meeting at Ik-uver,
pounds. Tlila year, the production-1"' 19"20-
probably has reached 7"i.0oo,0(io The winter meeting of the Colorado
pounds. Five years ago. the gotdKditorial Association will be held iu
production wag $239.191 ; last year itDcnver. Jan. 17 18.
waa $1.171,696; Sliver production two Transfer companies report three
years ago was 114.55! ounces; lastfnmllles coming Into Denver to one
year It was 1.777.445 ounces. Theg0inB out since Jan. 1.
lead production In 19"S was 873.7C1 ti, n i i o. .. . .
pounda; last year the production was'I,' , . f IT T" '
18.403.392 pounds. In i., tho to-n'"'1? " huld, ' ' .rmal CUBVeB"
tal valuation o ore production was"00 ,)env'r' Jan' :l"
$l.r.25."91; last yea- it was $11049. Co1- c- Ikd8e elected presi
932. Five years ago, the coal pro-1"11 r ,lle Colorado Fair Itates Asso
ductlon In New Mexico was valued atcla,lun at metü,i " lnver.
$3,98l,i;f.0; last year it was $i;,230,S71. W. Atkinson, government travej
Civic Progress lng audilori wa In Denver to audit
' New Mexico thia year e-ípended bks f ,be COlleC,or of i,UcrnaI
$2.225.noo on Its schools and higher e"
educational Institutions. The school The "nntmn.tain Congress of the
census thia year totaled 110,93!. inSalvation Army closed a three-day
practically every pne of the more thanmectinR '" lnvcr with a consecra
1,000 school districts at least scventlun nrv,t'e at headquarters,
months school were held and more I'luns for thc'remodoling of the old
new modern school houses were bulltf'",ral building in Denver will be
In the state the past year than in nny'orardcd to Washington by F. L.
two years previous. In one countyLacaff, superintendent of construe
alone, that of Santa Vé, forty-five"011-
new modern school houses went np. Miss Kdith Wharton. 21 years old.
The state University, for the firsta comely California girl, is near deuth
time, bad more than $75,()uii to exln the Denver county hospital as 11
pend, and the leven ties of the stateresult of an effort to end htr life
Institutions arej growing constantlywith poisou.
ÍhnZn',rnTer0m,the,8,ale l1D 0lof K- Llndstrom. brother of
oTrtl.a X U,aTdMrl " Olga Llndstrom and Mrs.
" ItI 1 H ,h. fT ,W:C II. Kncon of Denver, waa troren
n.e of thT Z ,mnJ "m r rT' dp8th hUe nuntlu8 " l"
nue of the commonwealth two deRver jn
cades ago. ' '
On good roads the state Is expend
in tha nrf f . ,,..n i .
...B .uu i"iui a ,I"",""U Ullliu
sue. besides a state levy of $110.000
year aud count leviei totullng $uo- " ' l"B luuulJ' c'i"'""--rs oe
000 Mded upon at Grand Junction.
Important Work
The state has undertaken the Dresr.c.0U'"y ".ospltal of old age
ervation and reoratio of Its prehlsr T T ' TV ,
toric ruins and Ustorie i.Hm.,i,. irU'y' no ' 68 ear M hv
which It is rimer than any othei'" üeUVCr fur ivmt'-n" ear8'
commonwealth n the union. It haf assembly of the largest num
established a stae museum In the his ber ' high-class horses ever col
torlc Palace of the Governors, nowlec,ed tor a Wes,e''n exhibit Is being
valued at $250.i0, and in the 8rlngbroUKhl t08fither at the stockyards to
will build, with the assistance of prl be snown ln tne 'tlual Western
vate contrlbutlins and the gift of BLlvetorl hw.
site by the cUzons of Santa Vé, a CPt- Harry Holmberg was re-elect-atate
art gallery and auditorium fored commander of No. 17, uniform
$100,000, as an annex to the museum,runk Knights of Pythias of Denver,
modeling it ater the 300 yeara'-old'P1- I 11 Merrltt was chosen as
mission churchon tho Rock of Acoma.(irst lieutenant, and Capt. Fred Field
Twenty thousaid dollars were eiecolul lieutenant,
pended this ye on excavations and That working conditions In the
restorations of prehistoric communalsouthern Colorado coal mines ore as
dwellings by iclentlsts from othergood if not better than in the same
atiites. Thlrt: thousand touristslndustry iu the East, is the opiulon of
passed through tho state museum thlsmemhcrs of the Federal Commission
year, showing oe widespread liitorcstheaded by Sctli Low of New York,
in New Mexicoand Its antiquities rw n 1 j , . .,1, .
Nu mi. . .1. . , , 0ne Colorado man was ident f ed
benemsMoef ' h,' í y'gheT 7 J t-" lV"
. .iju m.. :t "'massacre of seventeen A mm cans by
lng was one oMho chief attrLtions.,,' ? , TZ f l ",h"rs arc
Its exhibit waf different, unlqu" an ' . T, f. ",,,,i,1S mon
clont and yet right up-todate Z "mde tMr ho,,,M thls
stead of showiig hcana of numnkinn.
apples, corn aid wheat, such as might
be gathered ingny atate of the union
it displayed mWels of Its landmarks
artistic plcturfe and motion films 0Sprnc,'r Kainst Julius liran.l.
lta industries, is farms, its towns, t8cuar,!cd witn funning down with his
institutions. Itf mines and fuctories-ttutomo1'"0 and k"""g A,llla Dc"
It distributed high-grade literature s',encer- ,hn 10-year-old daughter of
well-edited am well printed, and the6 PIalntlft'1
results alrcaui justify the expendí- Deatn "y ve Claudo Maddoi,
ture. It will lontinue this work durwno tne Denver police are convinced
lng 1916. j Is the youthful burglar wounded in an
Thus, this wautiful exposition, thatcxcuane of shots with a night watch
verllnhln fatnlanil nf nnj. l.j... man ill tha rtn Kan lmli.l tm, nv.
w.m - Hiinioiu .UUUa- - t . I W (( 1 V
try, science aid art, was an apothPa,nlnS tne circumstances under
" 1 iu 1 uciiiuvemems OI tn""'v" uu rovicu a uunei wounu in
youngest and vet the oldest, of thctne breast about the time the hotel
states of the ailon. duel took place.
Woik Progressing on National park.na,kan war tw0 7ear" 8o, which, be
SanU Fe.-Vork Is Dnre..tn. declared, had embittered him against
the plan for 1 ae establishment of aBu'8"'lans. constituted an excuse
national park In New Mexico, to bewhich Mlcnael Nlmo- Greek miner
known as "Tt 1 National Park of theirom .Morelano Utah, gave the Den
Cliff Cities." vhlch has beeu advow pl,Ilce ,or BD00tl"K Pe'er Mlnoff,
cated by Sani Fé and other cltlxen, BuI8arlan "' Lafayette, Colo.,
for some turn past, 011 La,lner street
360,000 Cattli 8hlpped From 8tate. f W , apt,eam 10 66 not ow
Santa W-i , th .., , ' 18 or 19 ent8" drugstore at
360,325 cattle, 75.000 ot which orlgl holding the proprietor at bay with
ated In Me 0, were Inspected T01 their revolvers, rifled a cash drawer
shipment In tl a state, toe annual reas a doxen or more pedeetrians
fvi ui huid aaniury poardpassea the place. They then
states. The tatal actnall ahinnkt aalllMlaaUl
of the state, via between, ssonno )
260.000. It Ukatlmated N.w m...;."
i ,
Scffti
1 r . .
Chtad'TU
hTM. shlppodln tli. wVu i.lfi"
COLORADO
STATE NEWS
Valmi Kmhui. I'.u. a.
ni . w-m,
atm rott rosnan KtKMTS.
( Helta county farmers are securing a
.large number of Holatein cows from
?.1!"6 nul"
1 ' Tayl"r 60 tne now fnullly
agricult urist at a salary of annroxi-
IB ... .
an,uU,' --m a year, if he accepts the
Mrs- Colia I.Ackley, 95. died in the
A ", 000 verdict was given by a
Jury JuilRe AllPn"s co ' lnver
favop of Mr- and Mrs- Clarence A.
Tho loss of two brothers In
.1. .
Masked and heavily armed, two
youths appearing to be not older than
1.. .... . '
. . ru""u ccnl' .cora:
-.aiuwB win mn in uenver Ken. 12
P"Vor the
auno convention 10 name ue eaates to
Hepublican, National 9S
VWC,, 00 7
First Territorial SaalS
"Of Lovintfton
CAPITAL, $30.000
OSCAR THOMPSON, Prtsident
JEFF D. HART, Vict President
J. S. EAVES, Cashier
C. L CREIGHTON.ftsslstantCashlc
TAILOR SHOP
Suits Cleaned and Pressed. Orders Taken
for Tailor Made Clothes
LEE HAYWOOD, Proprietor
The Lovington Grocery
and Dry Goods Co.
DEALERS IN
Dry Goods. Groceries,
Grain and Hay
L0V1NGT0N, NEW NEXIC0
Lovington Automobile Co.
Il prepared to do all kinds of repair work.
Inner-tube Vulcanizing, Recharging of lotteries and
ELECTRIC WORK A SPECIALTY
We carry a full line of Racine and Republic tires
aud tubes; albo haudle
FORD CAR REPAIRS
We are just twenty-seven mile south of the Na
tioual Highway. Call and see ua at Lovington.
Thread Any Size Pipe and Do Lathe Work
TIRES STRICTLY CASH PHONE 25
Lovington,
THE CARLSBAD
AUTOMOBILE CO.
aMa a
Operating the Daily Mail and Passenger
Line between Carlsbad and Lovington
by way of Pearl, Monument and Knowles
Cart Leave Daily From Both Carlsbad and Lovingtoo at 7 a. m.
Buick and Saxon Agents For Eddy County
Battery Charging Plant, Free Car Storage
Largest Garage in State
CARLSBAD AUTO CO.
CARLSBAD, . . . NEW MEXICO
LOVINGTON HOTEL
Neat, Clean Beds, Nice Rooms.
' Table Supplied With the Best the
Market Affords
RATES REASONABLE
J. S BOYD, Prop
New Mexico
. . ' i-' . . -
V'-- . V -f--'t'
.vv
: j
..V. . V-:.i..:.;V.'';;'"
