.... y
WESTON'!
.-EADER
, vex. XSXT.
TTOsiojr, nrmytoy, isiday, jajtuaky si,.ioio.
NO. 81.
I
4
WORLD'S DOii'iGS
of him week
Brief tee cf fecrl Kcws
firca All Arcsl t&e EaitL
Uva News Items of AH Nations and.
Pacific Northwest Condensed
, (or Our Busy Readers.
Ford pe board U reported mu
complete dlaruptlon.
. Th steamer Teboma U ice-bound In
tb Loafer Colombia rl rer.
Aa aged ladlna at Oregon City, die
from want w all dally drtnka.
A SO par cent dividend ta declared
by th 8tandard Oil company of Cali
fornia. ,,' .v- v - :
Lord Derby of England daelarat
th Brltleh army la sufficient to win!
th war. .. ,.
. Flood In Boothem California art
continuing to da tonaldarablo damage
to property.
Montenegro aakaa com plate sur
render to Aaatrla who will hav full
o partition of that eoantry.
A Polandar waa refweed bla natural-
laatloa paper when bo declared ha
would not toka no arm la defene of
tb United Stetea. . . .
Tba ell lee have landed troop 41
mllaa waat of Athene and It la aaaartad
that It la tba intention of tha antanto
pawar to fore Grave Into tb war.
Arraotof 17 members of a
band la 8outbft Mleeourl, la ball awl
U hav fruatratad plot to bom sev
eral town and klU nany .loading eiu-
mm ra to coo
res ms mmwsi nam
Washington. D. C. Preeldant WIl-
aoa la planning to aaauroa paraonal
laadarahlp la tha light for a stronger
army and navy. So many ra porta
baa reached blm of oonfualon ovar tba
laaua bafora oongroaa and of tba uncer
tainty of tha outcome, that ha haa de
termined not only to go bafora tha
country In pablla eddreea, but to eon-
far furtbar on tha aubjact with laadar
of tha lanato and houaa.
lUpreeentatlv Hay and Represent
ative Padgett, chairman of tba houaa
military and naval committee,
sportively, bava Informad Mr. Wilaon
tbat It will ba from two waoka to a
month bafora tba eommlttaaa will ba
raady to ra port any army and navy
appropriation bill. Wblla thla work
la going on ha propoaaa to do hi ut-
wt to aolldify sentiment among the
people and mambara of aongroaa In
favor of tha plana drawn op by tha
war and navy d opart men ta.
Friend of tha Preeldeot rapraaant
WILLIAM ALDEN SMITH
OIL AND STEEL TO NEWS ITEMS
fORM BIG MERGER AboMngon
YALE STUDENTS ORGANIZE A FIELD BATTERY
ft
GksI kd-strics With teM cf
$0,000,000 h (Misc.
mm plans sum mir haco
Road Bonds Urged to
Build Permanent Highways
Saltm A atoto bond laana for mak
ing parmanant road Improvamanta and
an Incraaatd tax lavy to provld for
maintaining atato blgbwaya and for
radamptloo of tba bond issue, ara
ommandad by E. L Cantln, ehlaf dap
nty engineer, la bla animal raport eub-
in Deal and Mexican Oil Prop
erties Also Ara Included.
Senator Jono. of Washington. Intro-
' duea bill aathorlalng a anrvay of
Baker's bay, near tha mouth of tha
Columbia, with via to Ita Improve-
moot.
A Chinaman, and common laborar.
In tba Unitad States for 16 year baa
bam ordarad deported. Ha waa
brought to thla to thla aoontry wbao 7
yaara old.
A llaaatrtebt nawapapar raporta tbat
tba gunfire of tba Franca haadaatroyad
two Zappallna north of Rfalema. Tba
aircraft arc aald to bava fallen within
tba Carman Una.
Ona hundred and twenty-flv poet
package , containing Meet rubber,
weighing an aggregate of 1176 pound,
exmafaned to Gothenburg, are taken
from the Danish liner Frederick VIII
atKUkwalL. . . -
Katharine Kelly, aged 10. and
Gladve Edferly. aged 9. of Seattle,
war nrobably fatally Injured when
they ware thrown from their aled after
coaatlng down ataap bin ana cracnea
Into a eoncrata wall.
Reatoration of tha Matwlin dynaaty,
wblcb ruled China before the eatabiieb
- ment of tha republic, baa been pro
claimed by the leadara of an uprlalng
In Eastern Mongolia. A brigade of
Chinese troop le marching on Hulhua-
ebon to attack use Hongoiiana.
Cnalgn Lawrence K. ford, of Wy
oming, waa dlamiaaad from tha navy
by Prwldent Wllaon'a approval of a
court martial which bald him guilty of
conduct unbecoming an officer and
aentleman. Ha la charged, among
other, things, with falling to aupport
bla wife. .
The Perrla bill to create a ayatem of
40-acre atock-ralaing homeaUada on
arid, aeml-arid and mountalnoua landa
In 17 etatea naaaaa tha houaa. All
three of tha administration conacvra
tio maaauree providing for water
power development, mineral lcaalng
and larger atockralalng homeaUada
now await toe action of the aenate.
Five hundred negro troope loot ten
derloin diatrlcta of Honolulu.
The eruleer Marblchead la to bo lo
cated at Portland for uaa by tba naval
militia. . -
Another consignment of 60,000 aboec
haa been aent to the war tufferera of
Belgium. - ;. '
tatorreporta abow tba number of
Americana mauaered by bfaxlcan ban-
: dlUialB.
Snow In tha etreeta of Portland la
being dumped Into tha eewere by many
unemployed. f ,-::;" :
Sorioua rioting againat Mexlcani at
EI Taao baa cauaed tha city to be put
under martial law.
An Italian liner la torpedoed near
where the Lucitanla went down, but la
token Into nearby port.
Tba thermometer regiatera all the
way from 78 above at Tampa, Fla., to
48 below at Prlnoe Albert. Sack.
Montenegro army la held In the grip
of the Auatrlana, and It la believed the
little nation last atruggle haa been
made. ,
Count Okuma,' Japanee premier,
barely miaaea being bit by a bomb
thrown by a would-be aaaaaaln In
Toklo. ; '
Queen Sophie, of Greer, alater of
the kalaer, haa been veiled to the lat
ter bedside, becao of tha aerioua
neaa of bit Ulnae.
""' jT, v: "
!
!
rM ."r-ri-H--. JIT,f,sri
PaHfI?rna?f lnfrr?stf Ari Involved mltted to the But Highway eommla-
aion. bonarnmion or a coaaiai paaea
highway from Aetorie to Crexeent City
la eleoorrad.
When the locating partlea have eom-
piaUd their work In Douglas, Wasco
and Sherman count!. Engineer Can-
tin announce that tha Columbia
Hlebwav will be located from Seaside,
ia Clataop county, aa far aa Wasco, in
8hermaa county, and the Pacific High
way will bava bean eorVcyed from
Portland to tba California line, with
the exception of a taction In Josephine
county.
'It la believed that tn date ia rap-
Idly approach Inc when the atato will
hav to undertake toe maintenance ox
the main trunk highway, audi aa tha
Columbia and Pacific blgbwaya,
writ Mr. Cantin. At tb praeent
time tb Stat Highway cotnmlaaion
doe not bold ltelf reapooaible for the
upkeep of roada constructed from elate
funds, leaving thla duty to county
official.
Tba report urfea upon tha eommla-
I
'V-. . ' .'ai.-vg! -zr'---:.--nx,.'TXTS-1 ,rr.t... -- "r-I ' J
Chicago Announcmnt of tb
formation of two great corporal iona
on a atoal merger, wit (zog.ouo.ouu
capital, and the other an oil combine.
capitalist at about 11W, 000,000 ar
expected this week. Negotiation,
which have now readied Ue atag.in
both prolecta wber tha tranaaetiona
are In definite shape.
In tha steal deal the) consolidation cf
tb found town 8bet Staei Tube
company and tb Cambria and Lacka
wanna Steel com panic, tb Bapogl
syndicate and the Dread firm, of Phil
adelphia, are back of tha pew enter
prise, and National Ulty Bant or new
York interest ara aaaociatod . with the
negotiation.
In tha oil deal bankara ar working
Tale baa completed ita military preparednee by organizing a battery In which nearly five hundred nndergradu-
atea have enlisted. It will be equipped with three-inch field pieces, whlcit are atmllar In conatruction to tha lamoua
French 7(-mlUlmeter gun. The first gun haa Just arrived and haa been added to the equipment of the battery. Ita
maximum ranee la four mllaa, and It coat, with two Umbers and a caieeon, f 1,500. The Tale battalion conalata of four
eompanle of 131 men each. The government wUI eupply each of the four eompanlee with four f the above three
Inch field piece, making a battery of 1 guns la all. -
JaajVVVj1VaAVVVVV i m m m m m aa.aaiaa.aa aw aaiaa. a.,a,aaiaa,iaiai amaw a al a a a
BRITISH AMD GREEK TRANSPORTS CONTRASTED
with Pacific Coaat oil mn In! bringing alon tba edvleablUly of working for
... a aa I l al.llu - ' Is
William Aldan Smith, United ttatee
senator from Michigan, haa opened In
aarneat Ma campaian tor tha Republi
can procidentia! nomination. Petition
have been cent out to nave hia name
placed en the ballot for the Michigan
areeldentlal primary In Aortl.
him aa being undeterred by tb open
oppoaltln of former Secretary Bryan
and other paciflcUU, and by differ-
one among advocate of national de
fense over th plana adopted, lie is
aald to be firmly of the opinion tbat
th program prepared by Sacretexiee
Daniel and Garrison la tha beat which
can b offered at this time.
Plan for the apeaklng trip will be
prepared aa quickly aa possible. If
neceeearytbe President may change
tb Whit Uoue social program map
ped out before Chrlslma.
i
SorMt Representative b loyal
Eat Speaks Agaicsl ftepartdscss Um b
Washington, D. C.-Every Socialist (Of PeTShslSI td CfSSS CCTKSy,
In tba United State would defend this
country if attacked by a foreign foe,
Representative London, tb only So
cialist In 1 congreta, told tba houaa
Wednesday in an address againat pre- tha German minister at Tha Hague for
pared neaa. , permission for to Scandinavian peace
The house shouted down attempts to delcgataa to return bom through Gar
limit London time and spurred him many, telegraphed Monday to Berlin
on with question. ma declaration l for ua aeeirea permit. iceni eaone
that th Socialists would fight waa I of members of tha Ford party to croee
greeted with thunderous applauea. Germany bava . been blocked by the
Rerjreentatlve O'Shaug-bneaay. of German military authorities, with the
Rhode Island, demanded of London I explanation that tha delegate ar un-
nactmut of lgialtlon authorising it
to lay out highways and proeura rights
of way for them, and empowering the
commission to arrange with th coun
ties for th maintenance of such state
laid-ettt. roada . until a atato main
tenance program ia adopted. .
Expenditure of tha highway depart
ment from January 1 to December I,
101b, totaled I223.1Z8.81, according to
tb raport. Of tola amount 158,443.48
waa expended on vie Columbia High
way ia Columbia . county, and HO,
702.97 on tb Rainier Hill section of
the highway. Th aum of $34,106.70
waa expended on the Columbia High
way In Clataop county. The Mitchell
Point conatruction of th Columbia
Highway coat 141,858. 88. ,
Railroad Work fc'idvis For-
ward in Harney County
Ontario In spit of tb severe
weather, work continues on the O.-W.
R. AN. extenalon weat from River-
slue. Or., to point In Harney county.
Nearly all the grading baa been com
pleted as f ar aa Oakley and th rock
cut and bridge ar now progreealng
rapidly. Mail eervioe to Riverside haa
begun, tha mail run on ue
thrice-a-week train being from On
tario to Rivereid.
Between Bend and Burn the Stra-1
born aurveylng party la in tb field.
running th newly-projected una be
tween those Interior point. H. N.
Bogue, chief engineer . for tba Stra
born party, waa in Burna last week
and hired saddle bora for th pur-
of a closer investigation of the
S Hen paaa. Leaving tha
ba proceeded by auto to itend, ao ttta
not known whether thla paaa will be
need by the new line, but probabilities I
are that it will. '
Evarvthin indicatea tbat within a
Tba Hague, via London Dr. Charlea I few m0Qtha work will actually be un-l
r. Aked. Mm. Roaika Scbwimmer I der way to connect Borne finally with!
and other members of th Ford peace I the outer world, and fto do away with
board, after having vainly appealed toi "Interior" Oregon forever.
bout tha merger.
Th beat Information obtainable
far regarding tb steel merger la that
the capital will eooalat of only
eiaae of etoek.
Th capital Stock of the Youngetown
Sheet A Tub company 1 120,000.000
common and $10,000,000 7 per cent
cumulative preferred, of wblcb $34,.
760.000 common and a email lot cf the
preferred are In the band of the pub-
lie. Tb company alao baa about $41,'
000.000 bond outstanding, including
tboee of certain of IU aubeidlariea.
Cambria Steal haa outstanding cap
ital atock of $45,000,000. and baa no
bonded debt
Tha total of tba outotandlng atock
and bond of tb three eompanlee men
tioned aa being partlea to tb
ia approximately $160.000.000. . Be
tide thla, several other eompanlee,
among them tb Inland Steel company,
hav been mentioned a poeaible par
ti ee to tb conaolldation.
In tb propoaed combination of Mex
ican and California oil propertlcaby
banking interests, tb name of the
Aaaociatod Oil company and Union
Oil company have figured eonepieo-
ooely. Tb Aaaociatod Oil company
ia controlled by th Boutnera racine
railroad, throceh ownership of 120,
069.000 of It $40,000,000 capital
stock. Tba Aaaociatod company haa a
atock interest in IS eompaniea, II of
which It controls by a SO per cent hold-In-
or mora of atock. It owns IS
steamers and operates two pipe line.
and alao owns interests In two other
nip line. It also owna ita own roll
ing atock. .
k i Mil yT-7iv&
V.at-..T ....ti.--...'-yf-7-.... , II .. liawn in mu. mmur 11
A curious contrast between the British and Qreek trana porta Is presented here. BriUsh Tommies look wl'Ji
mtercet at the email, two-wheeled carta used by the Greeks, which the former paaa on ue nignway near B&iomu.
GAS ATTACK SEEN FROM AEROPLANE
what would bo tha attitude of the So
cialists In cat th American flag waa
attacked.
'I deaire to say that If tha people of
th United Statea were attacked every
Socialist would fight," London aald.
What is tha distinction between
th flag and the people?" a doxen Rep
resentatives Immediately asked, in as
many different ways, while ixmaon
smiled and fenced the Question.
"Tba people throb with lire," he
said, "while a flag la an emblem only.
Any lunatic from an inaane asylum can
attack th flag and trample on it, but
it ia a vastly different thing for an at
tack to ba made on the people,"
Airmen Kill Bulgers.
London Hundreds ' of ' Bulgarian
aoldlera were killed and a large number
wounded in a bombardment of Petri Ui
bv a aauadron of 26 French aeroplanes.
accord inr to a dispatch received In
Athena and forwarded by the corre
spondent there of the Evening Stand
ard. Great damage was caused by tha
bombardment, the advices a ay. Th
provisioning of th Bulgarian forces
on the Greco-Serbian frontier ta being
conducted with the greatest difficulty,
owing to the condition of the roads, tha
correspondent adds.
Rescuers at Ice Prison.
Roaeburg, Or. After a two days'
trip through snow and ranging from
three to eight feet deep the rescue
party which left here Monday arrived
at the tent cabin of A. J. McCallister
and family on the Coaat mountains late
Wednesday. Although practically iso
lated on account of the recent storm,
the McCallister family had sufficient
fuel and food to lat them for several
days. The rescue party was obliged to
make moat of the trip on anowahoea.
desirable.
Twenty-flv subject of Denmark,
Sweden and Norway, -who came here
with tba peace expedition, ar desirous
of returning to their homea, woicn
Klamath Ships Livestock.
Klamath Fall Ona of the largest
shipments of livestock from Klamath
county this year left on tba Livestock
Special this week. This comprised 6
carloads for California and Portland
market. The biggest shipment was I
of lambs aent to San Franciaco by O.
T. McKendree. of thla city. There
were over 2000 head, filling 20 car.
Two cars of cattle and on car of hogs I
were shipped by Fred Stukel to Sacra-
Ve
A 1.
. v ' t
j$4.'f
GUARDED THE WHITE HOUSE
Lf i
it
u
fko. .m nn.hu tn da nnlaaa h wav of mento. Charlea Horton consigned two
. . .1 . . . a, V T I C...L..U. I
the North sea. Thia rout ia regarded
unsafe. Included Inthoe marooned
her la Paul Lyndhagen, mayor of
Stockholm, who aaya he may lose his
office unlesa be returns soon.
Mm. Schwtmmer, who ia a Hun
garian, telegraphed outhoritie at
Berlin that the blockade againat the
returning delegates la proving a great
inconvenienc to the expedition and
urged tha lifting of the embargo.
Blackmail Profit Big.
Now York Blackmailing operation
carried on at the summer reaorta.
which ar aald to hav netted more
than $260,000, were revealed by two
arrests here. Men who posed aa gov
ernment agents, aided by women con
federates, ar declared to have extort
ed money from many persona, by
threatening them with exposure under
the Mann act. On complaint of the
Philadelphia office of tha department
of Justice, Robert A. Tourblllion was
held in $60,000 bail on a charge of
conspiracy to extort money.' v
cars of cattle to tba
at Portland.
Klamath Indiana Logging.
Klamath Falls Logging operation
on the Klamath Indian reservation for
th winter ar well under way, accord- j
ing to Supervisor of Reservation For-
ests J. M. Bedford, under who direc
tion the work ia being done. The gov
ernment camp ia on Wood river, north
of Klamath agency. About 1,000,000
feet of timber already has been decked
ready for hauling to Wood river. It
will be driven down Wood river and
towed serosa Upper Klamath lake for
ua by tha Klamath Manufacturing
company, a large pox rectory. ,
Thia remarkable cloture, taken by a Russian airman. Illustrates the start
of a gas attack in the eastern war zone, the poisoned cloud rolling before a
westerly wind towards the Russian line after being released from the gas
rviindnra nnnrated bv the Germans In the center of the picture. On the right
are three llnea of German troops awaiting the moment to advance, their length
ening shadows showing that the sun la nearly setting.
AMERICAN AIRMEN WHO AID FRANCE
V 1
Big Naval Corps Asked.
Waahinirton, D. C Immediate
tion by congreaa to authorise an i
ere in the corps of midahpmen at
Annapolis la urged by Secretary Dan
iels in a letter to Chairman Padgett,
of the boos naval committee.
The letter eays tbat if a full number
of vacancies be made available for ap
pointment by members of congreaa
before March, the academy wtu do
able to handle a much larger class
next year.
Heavy Timber Felled by Storm.
Molalla On of tha severest storms I
known in thla section for years haa
dona heavy damage to standing timber.
A tract known aa the Schustod claim,
which cruised 12,000.000 feet, fe re
ported by Fred S chafer, a sawmill man
who waa bunting congara la that vicin
ity, to hav lost at least 6,000,000 feet
of timber, which waa blown down, in
a, many place the trees ara piled 20 feet
high.
Power Plant Dearroyed.
La Grand When fir Wednesday
burned the Mill Creek power plant,
which assiats in generating electricity
for the Eaatern Oreiron L.lht row
er company, the city became hard
preeeed for power juice. All big con
aumera were promptly abut off until
temporary repairs can be made.
V - 3 vf V.. I
This la Dvie the one on top ol
the kennel who guarded the White
House during the honeymoon absence
of President Wilson. He is an Aire
dale and the property of Misa Helen
Wood row Bones, cousin of the presi
dent, and la highly valued as a watch
dog. Holding Davie's chain Is Willis
Jackson, one of the White House messengers.
LLOYD-GEORGE'S CHAUFFEUR
0 . - . .
XVV;
j
1 -:f V
' I
V ' ' . . .
Left to right: Sergt Elliott Cowdin, Sergt. Norman Prince of Boston and
Lieut William Thaw, three American blrdmen who, for daring deeds on the
battlefields of France, have beeu decorated for bravery, and came back to the
United States to apend Christmas wltn tceir ioiks at noma, tacn nna receiT-j
the military medal and the war medal, the latter being the French equivalent
ef the Iron Croee of Germany. Already they hire returned to their duty at
tha front
David Lloyd-George bellevoa that
every able-bodied Englishman should .
be working for his country, either at
home In the making of wav materia
or tn the trenches fighting the enemy,
For th's reason the "Strong Van ot
England will no longer employ men
In his honsehold. His preaent chaufi
tear ta a Mlse Marah, with whom he a -well
aatiafied.
Snow ef Yesteryear.
"No, you're right tier a'n't a
much of tt, an' It don't ley aa long-,
an" what more dang me, If it's
even a white a it eater be!"-'
Judge,
