THE OWOSSO TIMES
PAGES 1 TO. 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. JAN. 21. 1916.
NO. 43
Struck by Locomotive.
Loula Evaoa of Corunna, employed
by tire Ann Arbor Railroad aa a sec
tion man, was struck by a locomotive
in the Ann Arbor yards at Corunna,
Tuesday, and terribly injured, hia right
leg being broken below the knee, his
left arm broken in two places and his
head injured. He was taken to the
Miller hospital in this city.
Engagement is Announced.
A pretty social function was given
Friday at the home of Mr. and Mrs. E.
-P. Vandewater, on North Cedir street,
when the engagement of their daugh
ter, Miss Cera, to George Richard
Wortley of Ypsilanti, was announced.
Miss Vandewater. who has been act
ing as instructor at the i'peilantl Nor
mal conservatory for the past two
years, is a musician of considerable
ability. Mr. Wortley is an Ypsilanti
business man.
Boys' Brigado Notes
Co. A Brigade class of the Church
of Christ will enjoy a skating party
Friday evening. Each one bring a
bowl, cup and spoon. Those not al
ready solicited bring 10c worth of
oysters or crackers.. Meet at the
home of Victor Hollis, ,624 Saginaw
street at 6:30.
On January 27 Co. A will play Co.
B of the Baptist church their second
in a series of indoor ball games, at
the I. O. O. F. temple. All friends
of the boys are Invited.
Bohemian Society Formed Here.
A party of Bohemians of this city and
vicinity, to the number of twenty
gathered in Carpenter hall Sunday
afternoon and were organized to form
a branch of the Western Bohemian as
sociation. The following officers were
elected:
. President John Devoroh.
Secretary Toney Dowbrava.
Treasurer Frank Wondal.
It was planned to give a dancing party
on Saturday night, Feb. 12 in the I. O.
O, F. temple.
Death of, Edward Evans.
Edward Evans, aged 86 years, died,
Saturday, at the home of ? hl9 brother,
James B. Eva'na 1 In this, city, after V
short illness with pneumonia. . He had
been visiting in Ontario and was on
hia way home when taken ill.
Edward Evans was born on a farm a
mile and a half southwest of Benning
ton, where he had since made hia home.
He waa unmarrird. He waa a devout
member of St. Paul's Catholic church.
He leaves two brothers, James of this
city, and William of Bennington, and
five sisters, Misses Anna and Elizabeth
of Bennington, Mrs. Frances Sheldon
and Mrs. Ella Gates of Los Angeles,
Calif., and Mrs. Catherine Dohertv of
Crawn Point, Ind.
The funeral was held from St. Paul's
Catholic church, Tuesday.
Left Foot Off.
Charles T. Babcock went to Detroit
Monday, and Tuesday had his left foot
amputated, nine inches below the
knee. He was accompanied by Dr.
Gale. He came out from the influencs
of the anaesthetic In good shape and
everything looked good Tuesday. Mr.
Babcock has had a number of oper
ations on his foot, but cDuld not con
trol the tronble. Last summer he had
a serious time on his return from the
west and said then that he would have
that foot off 'when cold weather came
and he waa in good shape to stand the
operation. His many friends here
hope this will give him permanent re
lief. Word from Detroit today said
Mr. Babcock was gaining. St. Johns
Republican.
Mr. Babcock is president of the
Union Telephone Co. and a frequent
visitor in Owosso.
Praiaes Woodard Factories.
The Grand Rapids Herald says in an
article, accompanying the picture of
Fred B. Woodard, Tuesday:
"The Woodard Furnituie company
of Owosao, like many another furniture
company, is a family affair. L. E.
Woodard, founder of the company, as
well as of the Owosso Casket company,
waa a capable man in furniture manu
facturing and left as a legacy to his
three sons hia great ability. Frank
runs the casket company, Fred B. is in
charge of the furniture company, with
Lee as designer for the latter. The
mother and two sisters are interested
financially in both companies. The
Woodard company is one of the leaders
among the manufacturers of the better
grade of bed room furniture, making
all the period goods. The company has
been through a number of disastrous
fires but always rises from the anhes in
a manner moet valuable for themselves
and for their city. Tbe company Jnow
operates one of the most modern wood
working plants in the country.
Bids Rejeoted.
Blda for the care of indigent sick in
Corunna and Caledonia township were
rejected by the board of supervisors,
Friday, because the two submitted
were considered too high.
Dr. Walter T. Parker offered to at
tend the ailing in Corunna, Caledonia,
ani at the county farm and jail for
11,200 per year.
Dr. I. W. Norris made a bid on the
conditions specified In the county
clerk's notice for $750 for the care of sick
in Corunnaand Caledonia. As tbe Owes
60 physlclan.serylng an Indigent popula
tion several times as larga, gets but
$1,000, this bid was also rejected as too
high.
Organizing Fop Fight.
Lansing, Jan. 18. A committee rep
resenting all of the congressional dis
tricts, has been named by the anti
saloon organization to take charge of
the campaign for state-wide prohi
bition. S. S. Kresge of Detroit, is
chairman of the finance committee.
Major A. P. Loomis U in charge of the
work to obtain permission for the sub
mission of the question at the fall elec
tion, and says that plenty of money to
carry on the campaign is in eight and
that no trouble has been experienced In
getting funds.
The committee included D. M. Chris
tian of Owosso, and Grant M. Hudson
of Lansing.
Now that the various committees
have been named work of securing
speakers and other campaign mattere
will be taken care of.
Compliments W. R. Goodrich.
Under the caption "Look Who is
Here," the Grand Rapids Herald pub
lished the following Monday, with a
cut of Mr. Goodrich:
"Representing one of the foremost
retail stores in Michigan is W. R.
Goodrich, buyer, and one of the part
ners of the Arthur Ward company of
Owosao. Although the firm is only in
its fourth year, it ea already recognized
as one of the leading commercial enter
prises of its kind InOwoBSO and vicinity.
, "Before starting on bis business
career, Mr. Goodrich attended the Uni
versity! of Michigan and after graduat
ing from' college, ' taught' school ior a
time. Hia success In this line t)f work
was as marked as it ia in the field of
commerce.
"The Owosso man is one of the buyers
from the neighboring cities, who have
arrived for the semi-annual furniture
market. He declares the past year'-i
business waa bully and predicts eyen
better things for 1916 "
Faithful Guardsman.
With hia re-enllstment Saturday for
a term of three years. August Schnei
der, quaa term aster sergeant of Com
pany H, began his twenty-fith consecu
tive year in the service. Sergeant
Schneider is the only man still in Com
pany H who waa a member of the
Owosso company before tbe Spanish
American war. He served through that
war and haa since been quartermaster
of Company H.
"We would hardly know what to do
without Sergt. Schneider," said Capt.
Parker, after tbe sergeant had signed
hia ninth enlistment papers. "His
work as quartermaster is faultless. He
knows just where every bit of the com
pany's equipment is, and if you should
take a tent or stake out of the quarter
master's room, the sergeant would miss
it. He always has hia room just so and
he knows how he leaves it. We con
sider him, practically, indispenslble to
the company."
Probate Court.
Mrs. A. Perry of Durand, widow of
the late Alfonso Perry, came into pro
bate court Monday, and proved to Judge
Bush that she had made no effort to
defraud the state by not probating the
estate of her husband. This was one
of the cases called into court by C. H.
Wbitbam, inheritance tax agent, last
week, The state alleged that in view
of the fact that the persons deceased
bad been dead over a year, and their
estates bad not been brought into pro
bate court then an investigation was
necessary.
Mrs. Perry showed to the court that
her husband left her practically noth
ing, and that he left one heir, a son.
She also showed that she has to take
boarders to make a living. Judge Bush
accepted the explanation and ordered
the matter dismissed.
Judge Bush of the probate court, has
revived the commission on claims and
acc Hints in the estate of the late Orrin
Wilbur, because of the state's action in
filing a claim of $:i03 for the care of
Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur while they were
in the state hospitals. The commis-
', -doners had been discharged but the
estate is not yet closed up.
Telephone Connection.
After the hearing before the State
Railroad Commission presented by pat
rons of the Union Telephone Co. asking
that the Chesaning Telephone Co. be
ordered to connect with the toll lines of
the Union Co , the Commission prompt
ly Issued the order and within a few
days it will be possible to get service
with the Chesaning lines.
BEAN JOBBERS TO
MEET IN DETROIT
Farmers and Elevator Men Invited
to Attend Session Jan. 27.
On January 27 there will be a meet
ing of .the Michigan Bean Jobbers' as
sociation at Hotel Cadillac, Detroit, in
the afternoon. The meeting will be
called to order at 1:30 o'clock.
This is a very important meeting, in
asmuch as the bean jobbers and eleva
tor men throughout the state, also tbe
farmers, are very much interested in
finding out the cause of so much an
thracnose in the beans.
Dr. B J. Howard, microscoplst, in
charge of micro-chemical laboratory,
will giye a talk on "Decomposition in
Beans and Its Detection," illustrated by
stereopticon views.
Grant Slocnm, editor of the "Gleaner
and Business Farmer," will give a talk
on "Tbe Riht Hand First."
J. W. Helme, state food commissioner,
will tell of his trip to Washington.
J. N. McBride, Burton, Mich., A. B.
Cook, Owosso, and John Hunt of Bad
Axe, will also address the ineetiug.
This ia really a meeting of the bean
jobbers and farmers, and Jfarmers who
are interested in the raising of beans
and getting information are invited to
attend this meeting. The meeting is
open to all farmers, bean jobbers and
eleyator men.
Death of W. D. Priest.
Mr. and Mrs. George T. Priest of
Venice, received word Wednesday night
of the death of their son. William D.
Priest at 9:80 o'clock Wednesday night
at hia home in Yucaipa, California.
Mr. Priest was taken ill about five
years ago with tuberculosis and four
years ago he left this city for Call
fornia, where he hoped his health
would improve, but he had -since been
growing weaker.
t" i 4 74
wmiam rriet was
39 years ago and had made Owosso
and vicinity his home all his life until
four years ago. For a number of years
be attended the city schools and was
later employed as a drng clerk. He
later took np the duties of clerk in the
local postoffice and waa transferred to
the position of mounted city carrier
and carried the same route that Eugene
Young carries at the present time. He
worked at the post office altogether for
about 16 years. He was highly respected
ana a laitntui employe, lie II was a
member of the Masonic and Elks
lodges. Besides hia parents, he leaves
a widow and two children, Harold and
Anna.
The body will be brought to thla
city for burial.
W. G. White has been appointed a9
postmaster at Ovid to succeed L. J.
Gumaer, whose term will expire Feb.
15.
Dr. William Dunham has been named
as postmaster at Shaftsburg, aa the
result of a recent civil service exami
nation.
Tbe Clinton County farmers' insti
tute will be held in Ovid, Tuesday and
Wednesday next L. W. Oyiatt of Bay
City, is the state conductor. Shiawas
see county speakers on the program
include U. C. Oven, E Wilson, W. J.
Brookina and Mrs. A. S. Jorae.
Fred Randolph of the Young-Randolph
Seed Co., is at the Agricultural
college attending a two day meeting of
five hundred representative farmers
known as the Michigan Experiment
Association. A fine seed exhibit is of
much interest.
The American Protective Tariff
League has just issued a unique
pamphlet entitled "Roster of tbe Sixty
fourth Congress" which will be useful
to every pers;m who wUhes to com
municate with any member of Con
gress. Thj pain pie t a'so includes let
ters of apDioyal of the Tariff League's
work from a Urge number of congress
men and practical luaiuess concerns.
The Alma correspondent of the Ithaca
Herald writes: "Otto Sanderhoff and
John Glass have formed a partnership
for the purpose of continuing the hard
ware business of Otto Sanderhoff. Both
of the men are veteran
hardware
dealers. John Glass entered the firm
of Smith & Glass In 1889 and continued
in tbe firm until seven yeara ago. For
tbe past five yeara he baa been in the
employe of Otto Sanderhoff. Mr. San
deroff has been in the hardware busi
ness 'since 1896." Mr. Sanderhoff ia a
brother of L. A. SAuderhoff of thla city.
"WETS" IN WRONG
COURT-LOSE
Action Then Commenced in Circuit
Court to Compel Election
Hearing on Tuesday
The local option question has reached
the court stage and the "wets" loBt the
first battle by applying to the supreme
instead of the circuit court for a man-1
damus compelling the board of super
visors to show cause why they should
not a9emble and order a vote upon
the matter at the spring election. The
supreme court politely informed their
attorney that he had asked the wrong
court and relerred him to the circuit
court. Application was thereupon
made by petition to Judge Miner who
ordered a hearing for Tuesday after
noon next. Attorney Warner of Lan
sing, will appear for the liquor forces
and Prosecuting Attorney Pulver for
the board of supervisors. The question
will turn upon the circulation of more
than one petition in a ward or town
ship and the making of the affidavit of
posting by more than one individual
for the same. -
"Galaxy of Stars."
A) crowd that taxed the capacity of
the Baptist church attended the con
cert given by the "Galaxy of Stars,"
as the second number on the Baptist
entertainment course Wednesday
night. The entertainers, all Owosso
people, presented a variety of talent,
that could not help but please, the
program including selections by
Rhodes orchestra, a male quartet, a
ladles' quartet, vocal and instru
mental, duets, trios, solos and read
ings.
The rostrum had been transformed
into a beautiful oriental garden,
making an appropriate setting for
the presentation of Tennyson's
"Dream of Fair Women" and eight
beautiful tableaux, a most impos
ing spectacle. There wa3 music of
all kinds, including old-time melo
dies, popular songs and heavier and
more difficult works that gave the ar
tists a' chance to display their ability.
! In introducing the people who
Were to take part In the concert, Rev.
Waite, under whose direction the
concert was. given, declared that peo-
At loo nrone.to overlook the tal-
Day too nlgn tribute to artists rrom
out of town. He asserted that it was
his purpose to demonstrate that
Owosso has a wealth of rich talent.'
The generous and spontaneous an
Dlause that followed each number.
Indicated that the verdict of the au
dience was that he was right. It was
nn of the best home talent produc
tions ever staged here and everyone
who had any part In It, Is to be con
gratulated on its success.
Between $72 and $73 was taken In
In cash at the door, besides all the
season tickets sold previously. It
is estimated that there were 1,200
people present.
muse " -
Jennings, L. H. Parker, Chris. Rent-,
8chler, William Vreeland, male quar
tet: 'Mrs. C. Rentschler, Misses Lil
lian and Esther Vogel and Florence
Mack, ladles' quartet; Mrs. Frank
Sahs, violinist; Mrs. Frank Kohler,
accompanist; Miss Lillian Converse,
ntontaf. Tra TT A WflltA flflrt TtPV.
liauov, .. ..-.v- t
C. E. Brown of Elba, N. Y., vocal
duet; Rev. Waite, reading and solo;
Misses Bertha Weick, Amy zosenke,
Nona Bryson, Iva Scott, iAmy Gay
lord, Ruth Richardson, Hazel Green
wait, Helen Gibson, Margaret Best
and Wilmlna Cummin, In Tennyson's
"Dream of Fair Women." Those who
took part In the "Dream of Fair
Women," and Misses Smalley, Inez
Forster, Ethel Hutchinson and Mrs.
H. A. Waite presented the tableaux.
George Rolfe, 78, off Perry, Dead.
George Rolfe, aged 76 yeara, died
Tuesday afternoon at 1 o'clock at the
home of hia daughter, Mrs C. H. Stev
ens, with whom he resided. Death
waa caused by grip and influenza. He
was born in 8t. Johns In 1839 and was
married to Miss Eliza Bancroft In 1858.
Mrs. Rolfe died two and a half years
later. After a number of yeara he mar
ried Miss Kathyrn Brown of St. Johns.
He leaves two daughters, Mrs. Ada
Stevens of this place, and Mrs. M J.
Edison of Ann Arbor, and one son,
Fred Rolfe of Lake City. He also
leaves two sisters, Mrs. C. II. Schwed.
win of St. Johns, and Mrs. John Myers
of Alma, and a brother David E. Rolfe
! of Williamsburg. He had been a mem
j ber of tbe M. E. church for the last 80
I years and bad lived in St. Johns and
! Perry most of bis life.
James Woodworth of Ovid, is visit
ing bis daughter, Mrs. Leon Miner,
Adams street.
Mrs. Harriet J. Wlnslow, mother of
Mrs. Lester J. Kenney,
home of Mr. and Mrs
died at the
Kenney ' In
Lansing, last week, aged 01 years.
;AHTI-SAL00N FORCES RALLY
Well Attended Meetings on Sunday
Throughout County Strong for
State wide Prohibition.
Tbe anti-saloon forces of the state
had speakers in iost of the pulpits
about the county on Sunday and the
J cause of temperance and especially
state wide prohibition was earnestly
advocated and endorsed in an emphatic
manner by the subscriptions made in
response to an appeal for funds to
carrv on the fight against the liquor
traffic. The possible pending local
option election in the county and the
second victory scored by the dry forces
at the supervisors session last week
made added interest in the discussion
and awoke renewed interest for tbe
cause.
Dr- T. Alex Cairns of New Jersey at
the afternoon meeting at the Congrega
tional church spoke in part as follows:
Dr. Cairns cited the change that has
come about in tbe past ten years, in
tbe strength of tbe saloon, declaring
that more progress had been made in
the last decaJe toward eliminating the
liquor traffic than in all the rest of the
time since the fight against it was
started He declared that ciyic pro
gress and tbe saloon are not in har
mony and that "the grand march of
civilization would never be played on
the pianola of the saloon." Tbe rule of
the people, he said, ia undeniable, and
the people no longer want the saloon.
It is inevitable, therefore, he declared,
that this institution be blotted out.
"It is the democracy that has been
dumping the brewers' suds into the
sewers for twenty years," declared the
speaker.
"The childhood of this country has
cried out for years for justice," declared
Mr. Cairns. "The motherhood of our
country is hungry for justice that has
been denied them both because of tbe
saloon. And now justice ia demanding
that the saloon let the people go from
its throtling grasp. It ia the mothers
and the children who suffer from the
saloon. The father drinks and the chil
dren have to wear rags. The father
drinks and the children suffer from mal
nutrition, or in plain words, starve.
The father drinks, contracts disease in
the hoc
houses of shame while in a drunken
on, ' and ' his children are born
deformed J7 afflicted.- f - The . .. .father
drinks and niswife akea fry. ' ' ' "1"
and gets only curses and abase" for her
efforts from her sot of a husband."
Dr. Cairns told of the awfnl misery
of the lower strata in New York City,
with its thousands of homeless, its one
murder every day of the year, its hun
dreds of arrests daily, its hundreds of
people starving, its thousands of chil
dren going to school on half time, and
hundreds living in cellars. Then he
declared that Gotham haa 13,000 sa
loons, or one saloon for every thirty
families. "Ia it any wonder that New
York has such suffering, such awful
'conditionaT" asked the speaker.
Then there is the white slave, the
girl who is tramping the streets, selling
her body and soul for a loaf of bread,"
said Dr. Cairns. "There are thousands
of just 8ach girls in New York City.
And the saloon is the causa of most of
it. One glass of beer will cause girls to
tthrow discretion to the winds, to drop
he birs of modesty and start on the
downward path from which none re
turn. One glass of beer may let loose
the flood of lust that damns a girl for
ever. "Then take the dens of vice, tbe
houses of shame. Take liquor away
from them and they disappear, for tbe
scarlet woman, minus her liquor, Is
like Hell's Inferno, robbed of its fire.'
Dr. Cairns ridiculed the claim of the
f saloon keeper that he pays a license for
running a saloon. "That's a lie."
shouted Dr Cairns. "The saloonkeeper
does not pay the license, it is the peo
ple who pay it. Take Ohio for in
stance. The state spends f 110,090.000
every year for liquor, and yet the liquor
dealer says he pays the license.
"But supposing be did pay tbe li
cense. Supposing he paid ten times as
high a license as be does now. Just
one boy or girl would be rated higher
jn the Dunn and Bradstreet of Heaven,
than all of the money that all the sa
loon keepers in the world could pay in
licenses. And yet thousands of our
boys are being sent to Hell by the sa
loon, and we are standing for it, be
cause the saloons pay a license."
Dr. Cairns took up the high cost of
living and suggested that possibly the
fact that this country spends two bil
lion dollars annually for liquor might
have something to do with It. He de
clared tbat every ten years Uncle Sam's
drink bill ia equal to the value of hia
entire holdings. "You have heard of a
farmer drinking up bis farm," said the
' speaker. "Well, Uncle 8am Is drink
ing np hia farm every ten years."
'"The l'quor interests talk of personal
liberty," said Dr. Cairns "I believe
In personal liberty, but there are differ
ent kinds of personal liberty. Personal
liberty does not allow you to keep a
mad dog in the school room, or a rattle
snake in a kindergarten, or empty your
sewer in the public reservoir. The sa
loon is more dangerous than any of
these things, but that is just the kind
of liberty the saloon men want.
"The saloon is out of date. It is out
of harmony with civic and social pro
gress and cannot endure. Its fall is
just as certain as death or taxes
"Theliqucr men will tell you that
prohibition doesn't prohibit They say
that more liquor ia sold under prohibi
tion than under wet conditions. If
that is so, it would naturally follow
that tbey would be out boosting for
prohibition, for the more liquor they
sell the more money they make. And
the saloon keeper is after tbe money.
"We admit some liquor is sold in dry
territory, but that is no reason why the
dry law should be repealed. In the
ftate of New York they electrocute
murderers, but New York City haa an
average of one murder every day.
Would you say that law against mur
dering should be repealed because mur
ders are committed?
"But we are getting the saloon. Sta
tistics show that during tbe last year
an average of one saloon keeper has
gone out of business every thirty two
minutes."
FORDNEY PUTS NEW
BRAND ON KITCHEN
North Carollnalan Known as "Cuttle
fish Kitchen" After .Mlchlgander'a
Speech.
Washington, Jan. H "Cuttlefish
Kitchin" la a cognomen which ia likely
to stick to the Democratic leader to the
end of hia days because of the speech of
Congressman Joseph W. Fordney of
Michigan. Your Uncle Joe was in fine
fettle when he made that speech. He
attempted no flights of oratory, but con
fined himself to tariff statistics, in which
he is an expert, and then added a . little
of tbe spice of his inimitable story tell .
In ir hnmnr. THa roan if n on nna
of applause when he finished.
Claude Kttchlu listened attentively,
and by his side waa Cyclone" Davis of
Texas. Mr. Fordney was materially
assisted bv unorcMtinnH frnm nnmr-xu '-
men Mapea of Michigan, Moore, Sloan;.
- . -T-.Twt!l;v Ir. rerdnr.
peared in the Cdngiesjdonai'W,
ao different irom the. one delivered in
the House as to be unrecognizable. He
compared it to the picture of the
Dutchman's dead father painted fiom
memory. When the Dutchman saw it
he exclaimed with tears streaming
down his face, "Yes, dat's f adder, all
right, but Oh how he haa changed."
The climax to Mr Fordney'a effort
came when he criticized Kltchin'a tariff
speech in these words: "The address
of the gentleman from North Carolina
was not fitting from the Hps of the
Democratic party, wntch is a great
party. It would seem more in keeping
if delivered by aome loner whiskered
Populist, from the tail end of a dog
cart, in a remote town in Texas.'' All
of which "Cyclone" Davis AcnAnf Ail
amiable with a resounding "A a tnen.'r
Kitchen made no response,
MARK FOOTE.
The Times job department haa
turned out this week the circuit court
calendar containing the list of cases
which baye been commenced in the
circuit court for many yeara past and
which, according to the records, have
never been finally disposed of The
calendar is considerably larger in size
than tbe regular calendar and contains
381 pages. In many cases the attorneys
of record are dead and the same is
probably true regarding tbe parties
involved.
Mr. George Beard of Morrice, who
was operated or. two weeks ago at tbe
Swajze hospital, has been removed to
the home of her sister, Mrs. Bert Had
sell, Park street.
The Church of Christ has been mak
ing a number of improvements. A floe
new velvet carpet haa been purchased
for the auditorium, a piano will be
provided and minor repaira made.
Mrs. Radcliffe Romeyn and son, Rad
cliffe. Jr . are visiting at the home or"
Mrs. C. R. Oiborn in Detroit for a few
days. Mr. Romeyn will join themjthe
last of the week.
t r.i,ni t. u. -i 1 . 4
home in McBaln after a visit with Mrs,
Richard Hunter. ..
' Mrs. Martin Halsey and daughter
May me, will go to Detroit soon tospetd
the remainder of the winter.
Mrs. Eitelle Edwards of Chicago, IP,,
registered at tho Y W. OVA. the firtt
of the week.
