I' v-
if
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
J0ITO:
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAIJiS AND NEWS
STANDS FIVE CKNT3
A
u .
tiJj
CAPTURE OF
lil Hi
Whereabouts ' Mexican Rebel Leader Is Unkown-Storv
of His Canture With Eighteen of His Followers Lacks
Confirmation Sixteen of San Ysabel Murderers Re-
norted To Have Been Caotured and Shot War of Ex
termination A?ainst Americans Declared
" El Paso, Texas, Jan. 21. The fate and the where
abouts of General Francisco Villa stood today a mystery,
in the face of conflicting reports that he had been
captured.
Following announcement by Mexican Consul Garcia
that the bandit chief was being brought to Juarez for ex
ecution, possibly before a large crowd at the race track
there, General Luis Herrera, chief commander of the Car
ranzistas, wired from Chihuahua City today that there
wnc nn rrmfivinriHnn of thfi storv.
Officials admitted that after all, he may not be in the
toils.
With the fondest hopes of the de facto government
thus dissipated, the new revolution around Forreon was
reported making progress, with human bodies swinging
from poles and bloody corpses leic in uie sireeis.
Stories as to Villa came from several sources. They
were conflicting and official confirmation of the reported
capture was lacking. Earlier private messages from
mining sources in Chihuahua stated that Villa had been
captured alive on the promise that his life would be
spared. This report said that three Carranzista detach
ments had surrounded him and 18 followers, and had cap
tured them after they had made a pretense at resistance.
Included in the group were said to be Colonel Carlos
Lopez, and 15 other participants in the execution of 18
Americans at Santa Ysabel. These sixteen were reported
to have confessed and to have paid with their lives for
those they had taken. This story, however, was uncon
firmed. , '
A message to the commander of the Juarez garrison
contained also a report of Villa's capture, but as with the
others it lacked- official confirmation.
Terror rules In the Torreon district,
according to refugees here. Nearly 4,000
suldiers Yillislns and Zapatistas chief-jo-
ore said to have declnred the lives
of Carronzistns and Americans forfeit,
and to bo in favor of having Felix Diaz
ttt tho head of Mexican affairs.
Executions without mercy are the Ol
der of the day. More than 100 C'arran
sistas are aid to have been shot down
before a mni'hi.ie gun -sr,Had, Bouthwest
of Torreon. after Americana had been
warned to quit the district on a quarter
of an hour's notice.
Oenernl Aigumedo Is lending this re
vjlt, and stones say that he Is larrying
on an outlaw war which included rob
bing an American mining company of a
$10,000 draft. His forces are said to
cut number the Torreon Currmiziita
garrison by fully 1,000 men.
EIGHTEEN WHO TOOK
PART IN MURDERS SHOT
El Taso, Texas, 'Jan. 21.
Eighteen Villista bandits paid
with their lives today at Chi
huahua City because of the as
sassination of IS Americans at
Santa Ysabel. While details
were lacking in the official Car
ran.isln advices detailing tho
story this afternoon it is be
lieved they were lined up before
a firing firing squad in a pub
lic place. Most or all of the IS
nrc -said to have participated in
the Santa Ysabel outlawry.
As for reports of General
Fraucisco Villa's capturo,
Mexican Consul Oarcia said to
day that he had noil her confir
mation nor denial of it. Oeneral
llerrern at Chihuahua City was
quoted, however, as denying the
report, and ngnln, as saying ho
had no confirmation of It.
Mayor Makes a Million
Through Deals la Ships
Pan Francisco, Jan. 21 Mayor James
Kolph, Jr., cf San Francisco, is .one, per.
jn who does not believe 'tho European
war has very materially affected the
Tutted States. ftolph's various ship
, d.-iils in the last 12 mouths have netted
h in a million, dollars, it is told.
The chief executive of the city Is
s:ild to have netted iHO.OOO on an in
vestment of $120,000 In the purchase
cud sale of tho steamer General l'ns
oicrl, and ho never even let the $120,
000 out of his hands. Before he hod
paid the money for the vessel he had It
rld to a Norwegian ship firm for -."0,-
VILLA IS
Eighteen to So Shot.
'Washington, Jan. 21. Eighteen Mex
ican prisoners, uileged to have beer
participants in tho Snntn Ysabel mas
sacre of IS Americans, will be public
ly executed at Chihuahua City tomor
row, according to an El l'aso t"legrair
to tho state department today. Tin
evidence connecting them with the San
ta Ysabel affair Is unknown.
Neither the state department nor thr
Mexican embassy, however, had con
firmntion of the report that Genera'
Villa has been captured, and they wcrr
slow to believe it, particularly In vicv
of tho fact that flucn reports have cir
culated a score of times recently.
Tho state department aRked Consu
Edwards ut Juarez lor information, am'
said it would not credit the story unti'
it was confirmed. At tno same time
tho Mexican embassy tjught fullei
facts.
STUCK TO HER POST
Portland, Ore., Jan. 21. With hei
hair and eye brows badly singed, Mrs
Snrepta McDowell today is hailed as r
heroine. When the Pacific Waste com
pany's factory caught firt yostcrdaj nil
(ho employes but Mrs. McDowell fled
She remained in the burning build i np
until she bad telephoned the firo de
partment. Her bravery nearly cost hei
life.
Abe Elartia
4
We all know th' feller who knocks
himself t' git In a boost. Kiefvr
penrs may be kept Indefinitely by
tippin' th' stems with lenlin' wax.
UNCLE SAM HAS MONSTER GUNS TO DEFEND THE PANAMA CANAL
' : V r!J
' a Mm
1 1 ft
f C . - . M ': . If
Wmf'' KwfrM ''X'Ul .
Jhh-; 'mt - n Utf ii
Two of the big guns defending the Panama Canal, and interior of shrapnel shell containing 252 lead bolts.
Some of the biggest guns in the world, shooting a distance of over twenty miles are being taken to Panama)
(here they will defend the canal. At the right of the lecture is shown one of the huge shells ujed by these g.s.
1 his-CBjrticuli- shell coriains 952 Unrl hnlU '
ferrifies Italians From Whom
It Has Gathered More
Than $200,000
Pin Francisco, Jnn. 21 Driven from
Vcw York, and hunted over the entire
earth tho dreaded black hand, a black
nailers' organization, is now operating
with this city as its headquarters.
Federal oificinls indicated tod if
hat important revolutions may be
forthcoming in their investigation of
this organization. Some of the evi
lence, it ii understood, has already
een presented to tho federal grand
jury.
Tuo black hand struck when Police
Lieutenint Potrosini of New York, was
Inin in Italy in l'.iOO; Bincc tnnt time.
ccording to tho evidence ul secret
jervice men, th) black hand plotters
operating hero, in New York, Milwau
kee and elsewhere hnvc garnered '200,
100 toll from panic stricken Italians,
hnve murdered six other men, and have
'eft x trail of dynamite and bombs
lcross tho continent,
The present prnhc is understood to
have originated with the arrest of Jos.
Velrano and Tony 1)1 Franco at Han
loso last fall. Hinco t'neu a veritable
flood of black hand threats and do
minds for money have come to prom
inent Italian merchants hero and in
nearby cities.
A number of Indictments are to be
roturned by tho federal grand jury
Monday.
Two of these It Is said will be against
Tony De Franco nd Joseph Velrano,
now serving prison terms for blackmail
work in Han Jose.
The officials admitted today that
they have in their possession ISO loi
ters written woallhv Kan Frnncisco
Italians. Hums of (1000, t.1,000 and
f,H,00U are asked far invirinus cases.
In each rase the letters ask that the
money be left In a wood, near Col ins,
Hnn Mateo county.-
BILL PASSES THE HOUSE
Wnshnigton, Jnn, 21, The
12,000,000 urgent deflclenry
bill passed the house this after
noon, with the 2,000,000 emerg
ency appropriation for the
Alaskan railroad and tho $.100,
000 to fight citrus canker In
cluded. JUST KLPT THE CHANOB
Fresno, Cnl., Jnn, kl. -The chap who
robbed J. A. Dovlln's grocery sent back
ome checks, which he found were use
less to him. lie kept tho loose change,
however.
MIDDLE WEST NOW
CENTER OF
F,
At Chicago Is 1.72 Inches and
at Kansas City 2.24 In
24 Hours
.WIND BACKS WATERS
. INTO CHICAGO SEWERS
Eight Feet of Water In Joliet
-Other Illinois Towns
Are Drowned Out
Ohicngo, Jnn. 21. Unusually henvy
rains in a "Jnnunry thaw'' caused
danger of floods In a dozen towns of
tho middle went, today, according to
early reports. Hundreds of cellars in
Chicago aro flooded,
The rainfall hero for the past days
has been 1.77 inches; at Kansas City
?Wi nt Ke(.knk, 1.4:!. The lowland's
of the Calumet and Chicago rivers are
flooded.
A heavy wind across the lake hacked
water into the sewers and inundated
many blocks of South Chicago. The
water is five feet high In some sections
of Lombard, and other suburbs where
scores are homeless. The village of
Cicero is marooned.
More rain U forecasted.
Elvers on Bampag.
Ottawa, III., Pan. 81. Scores of
houses dnd thousands of acre of rich
farm lands nrc inundated as the result
of overflowing of the Illinois and Fox
rivers. The streams are rising at tho
rate of two feet an hour.
The worst of the flood in the Illinois,
however, is being held back by an ice
porgo to the west of Ottawa, though
this is damaging up-river points. Inter
urban servlco is suspendod.
Joliet Under Water.
Poliet, III., Jan. 21. Fully 1,000 per
sons are homeless while parts of this
city are under from four to eight feet
of water following n deluge continuous
ly for the past day. No casualties have
been reported, but property damage is
around (ilOO.OOO. A number of fnmll
Ira were rescued In row boats, and hur
ried to temporary shelter in hospitals
(C'onlioued oa I'agt Three.)
I
ALL I HEAVY
FI
Understood Message Con
cedes American Demands
On Practically All Points
By Oarl W. Ackerman.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
llerlin. Jan. 21. Germany 's final re
nlv to America in the I-usitania tor-
no'doinc enso is being prepared, mid
while tho time if delivery is not deter
mined, officials are confident that it
will settle alt submarino differences
with the United Mtntes.
It is understood too messages de
clares a willingness to grnnt indemnity
for American lives lost; again expresses
regret for the casualties but reiterates
the tlermnn reminder tnnt noutrai per
sons had been warned not to Bail aboard
her. Tho mess,itrn guarantees the fu
turo safety ot i.eutrals nbonrd belliger
ent passenger ships, and promises not to
torpedo tnem vitnoui Wurmen. " mum
tains tho position which Ambassador
Von Bcrnsiorff told tho state depart
ment.
Trial of Mary Pamias
Will End This Evening
Rnn Francisco, Jnn. 21. Her eyes
shut, her hands clenched and hor body
quivering, Mrs. Mary 1'umias heard to
day tho police stenogrnphor's report of
her confession of how slvo hud hacked
to bits tho body of Michael Woinstoin,
her crippled suitor, and had hidden It
in a box,
Sho begged that her hrrsbnnd be nl
lowed to sit beside her as her trial for
the alleged murder progressed; but the
court ruled he must stay outside tho
rail.
The end of the trial Is expected by
tonight.
THE WEATHER
'THAT fEEl-j)
MKE SLEtV Oregon: Tonight
and Saturday oc
casional rain In
weet, unsettled,
probobly rain or
snow iu east por
tion; soutuory'
winds.
SOUTHERN BULGAR A
IS INVADED BY ALLIES
Anglo-French Squadron Silences Forts at Port Lagos After
Two Days' Fierce Bombardment and Lands Troops
Sweden Wants United States To Join In Protest Against
English Blockade of German Ports-Snain Making
Heaw Purchases of War Munitions in United States
Athens, Jan. 21. After two days of relentless bom
bardment, an Anglo-French squadron silenced the forts
of Porto Lagos on the southern Bulgarian coast, not far
from Greece, and landed Wednesday on Bulgar soil.
The landine nartv destroyed trun emplacements there,
but returned to their ships after a reconnaissance showed
superior forces of Bulgarians a few miles north.
i ne bona war omce toaay oinciany repuneu me uom
hardment of Porto Lagos, and Dedeaghatch to the east
ward bv a squadron of 24 warships, but did not mention
the landing at Porto Lagos.
war office came the report
shelltd Turkish positions in
The Porto Lagos landing
cance. ine squaoron engaging uiercm was yi wauiy nu-
miral Roebeck's from the Dardanelles, and the reconnais
sance was possibly preliminary to a landing in force.
Though Salonika messages reported' heavy damage to
Dedeaghatch tne bona war oixice announceu mat, mcie
were no casualties.
Aviators directed the bombardment but Constanti
nople reported that Turkish batteries hit a cruiser three
times, compelling her to withdraw in flames.
Sweden and Spain Next I
Washington, Jan. 21. Sweden and
Hpnin flashed prominently today in
the direction of war politics.
Tho former wis reported trying to
persuade the United. States to vioin in a
protest against the proposed llritish
actual blockido of tlermany; the luttor
is said to bo making henvy purchases
of munitions in tho United States.
As American interests are involved
in both of these. noutr.il nations, dip
lomatic quarters are rifo with rumors
as to what tho outcome of these two
situations may mean.
It is understood thnt Sweden Is man
em cring guardedly against HritiHh in
terftienco with commercial and mail
u-.attor of Sweden though fenr of
trouble is deterring tho Scandinavian
nntion from taking direct action. How
ever, it is known that she would wel
come un offer from tho United Btatos
tor a joint protest over Knglisa en
croAchnients on neutral rights.
Hwedish authorities are, in sympathy
with tho American senate agitation for
on.biirgo on exports to Grout Il'itain.
They lmlieve indeod that merely cut
ting off cotton exports to Knglnnd
would bo n sufficient reprisal to gain
concessions from Great Rritnin without
tho more drastic step of preventing ex
norlal on of munitions.
Tho rimnish situation menntime Is
uiving the allies pause, it is understood.
Kuropean reports tiint Hpain may bo
preparing to turn ie balance against
the allies by a Blroko .igniiist Portugal,
counted with ronorta of heavy muni
tions purchases in tho Unitod Htutog is
making pnin an important factor in
tho world political situation. Hence,
tho allies aro understood to bo keeping
a watchful eye on hor mencuvers.
Greece Rejects Ultimatum.
London. J.in. 21. That King Con
slnntine, of Greece, has rejected allied
demand for rejection of tho diplomats
of tho central powers was one ot sev
SHOE-TOP DEEP IN MUD
ZOUA VE BAND PLA YED
FOR CORRESPONDENTS
(Note Following is the fifth Install
ment of William G. Shepherd's unccn
sored story of tho allied rotreat from
Hernia. The previous installment
described tho experiences of a party
of American correspondents under fire
at the Berbian front just before ro
treat actually began. Editor.)
By William O. Shepherd.
Sslonlka, Doc. 11. Our ambulance
mulled dowa the mountain side at
1'rench chauffeur apeod and into a
valley behind hill number CIO which
sheltered us from shell fire and nt least,
we wero so fur away from tho artillery
brittle that we could barely hear the
guns.
Valendova. an old Turkish village In
southern Hcrlils, was to bo our stopping
place. There, in tho early evening,
General Itnillaud, whoso brave troops
nearly all of them r.ouaves had fought
their way to nrivoinK aim nan mora
tried to reach tho Hcrbluns and form a
junction with them, was to receive,,
with field ceremonies, tho order of
military merit. Hut wo wero too latu.
From the Constantinople
tnat anotner squadron naa
the Gulf of Saros.
may be traugnt witn signui-
eral contradictory German advices
ancnt the Athens situation reaeaing
hero today. The Berlin Tagcblatt Slid,
indeed, that tho allies had not deliv
ered their reported ultimatum, demand
ing (tint vreece gtve tuo central uiiie
tt.ii? paasVofiS. ' '
The Tagcblatt declared that its daily
Athens reports contiincd no mention
of an ultimatum, whilo t'je Vossieho
Zcitung replied that this was due to
the censorship. The Zeitung roiterated
that tho ultimatum expired Wednesday
and had been repjectod by Constantine.
8inco then no word had come.
King Asks For Aid.
Taris, Jan. 21. King Nicholas, of
Montenettro, has appealed to the allies
to rusli aid to his nntion if they expect
it to cscnje annihilation. The request,
transmitted through Italy, asks imme
dito supplies of food, several batterisl
of artillery and some ammunition.
May Invade Egypt.
Amsterdam, .Ian. 21. With Kaise
Wilhclin returning from Belgrade, offi
cials saw today in bis address at Nisa,
a hint that the reported Turko-Germao
invasion of Kgypt is about to begin.
"Wo have been challenged by our
enemies, who havo envied the peaceful,
flouri.-hing prospority of Gormuny" he
said. "In A light hearted manner, they
have endangered the development of
Kurope in order to strike at us. We
have hnd n hard fipht which will soon
be spnaj to other fields."
Dutch Schooner Sunk.
Tendon, Jan. 21. All aboard the
Dutch schooner liungorinnn perished
when that vessol was sunk by a mino
off tho coast of Denmark, according to
a Topenhngen report today.
Tho Hritish steamer Sutherland was
submarined in tho Mediterranean Mon
day. Tho crew was taken to Malta but
one sailor died from exposure in a life
boat cn route.
The ceremony was over. However, we
were asUinishcd to see in a Turllish.
mosque French zouave band.
It was the first band that any of us
had seen near any battle front, be
tween the five of us American news
papermen, wo had seen overy front oa '
both sides. Hand musio hasn't much,
place in this gritri wnr. There were
ninety musicians and five drummers
and they stood iu tho mud up to their
shoo tops.
"Can't yon get them to ploj!" we
asked our guido. .
"It's the first band wo ever saw
near a battle field."
"Will you write stories about It
asked tho leader.
We saiti we would. Wheroupon stand
ing In the mud, in the evening dusk
that was almost darkness, wits, the
Turkish mosque behind them sad twe
French officers standing fifty feet
above na in the minaret, the liaudj
struck up the song of a certain tegi
ment of rounves. ''
(Continued on Parfe Three.)
.
