1
Fair to-day and to-morrow; continued
moderate temperature; moderate windi.
Highest temperature yesterday, 90; lowest, 71.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report! on pate 7.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 359.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916. Copyright, ml, by tho Sun Printing oarf PublUAtajr A i tockLUon,
ONE CENT
In OrMter New York, 1 Klsewhent
Jersey City end Newark. J TWO CKNTS.
GREECE GALLS
VOLUNTEERS TO
FIGHT BULGARS
AH Reserves Near Seres
Also Summoned to Arms
to Repel Invasion.
expected quickly
to Join the allies
)
Liberal Leaders Now Rais
ing Troops at Salonica
to 3feet Attacks.
HUNGARY LOOKS FOR
RUMANIA TO FIGHT
Censor Permits Press to
Voice Pessimistic View
of Outlook.
London, Aug, 23. The Bulgarian
advance Into Ureece may be the spark
that will set Greece aflame and lead
her at last Into the war on the side pf
the Allies. Despatches from Salonica
say that all the Greek reserves about
Seres, In northeastern Greece, have
been called to the colors and at
Salonica. volunteers are being raited
to fight the Uulgurs.
A proclamation Issued by the Greek
commander at Seres says that he wilt
attack the Bulgarians, who are now
advancing toward the town. The
proclamation calls out all the Greek re
rvlsts In the district, who were de
mobilized a short time ago, after hav
ing been under or ma almost since the
war began.
In Salonica lenders of the Liberal,
or Venlzelos, party are raising a body
f Greek volunteers to go at once to
Seres and aid the Greek troops there
to repulse the advance of the Bul
garians. Greek troops already have
been reported as firing on the Bulgara.
It has been declared that the. latter
had promised not to occupy Seres,
Drama or Kovnla.
res ob (Jreere and Romania.
It Is believed here that the Teutonic
ufTenilre, Intended to anticipate the of
ftnsive the Allies have now started, has
oierreached Itself, and that Bulgar In
roads Into Greece will so arouse the
ilreeks against their ancient foe that not
'ten King Constantlne, who Is the
Kaiser's brotheNtn-law, can keep them
lrtm Joining the Allies.
Meanwhile attention here continues to
I fixed on Rumania. Several newspa
pers declare that, Influenced by the suc
e of the Itusslan offensive In the Car
pathians toward Hungary at points not
far frqin her northern boundary, Ru
mania will not delay much longer In
throwing In her lot with the Allien.
The Hungarian newspapers are filled
with pessimistic Information concerning
Itumanla and that country's possible ac
tion Ik absorbing the press and public,
according tn a Budapest despatch to the
.Wnlng I'ot. The Hungarian public
'''i'"w, says the despatch, that the lib
erty 'hey enjoy at the hands of the cen
"r designed to prepare the people for
the worst.
The military expert of the Pett-Napo
saw
"The entry nf Rumania Into the war
lll not at first affect the military situ
ation In the Balkans, for the Human
:n Hill have to adhere to the united
Kiratc.-lc pl.ui of the Allies, ami will not
e tiiimltted to go straight for Transyl
yv,K Hulgnrla and the Dobrudja will
t-'r Immediate aim. Klve hundred
ihouiul or tinn.uoo men of the Human
... it my are not the chief factors for
jne consideration of the Central Powers,
1-ut rather the problems presented by the
' territory which the Russians will be.
al!ner tn use freely In the Invasion of
Hungary"
Hatch Prints and Churches.
Meanwhile the anxious hours of walt-
are not Hpont In Idleness In Tran
ylvanl.i, whence every ablebodled ipan
jpeeted of Rumanian sympathies is be-
thlfteii to other parts of the coun
try. The Rumanian newspapers m Transyl
vania are under the strictest control and
llumanl.in priests and churches are un
r military supervision. All along the
num.ir.lan frontier ,thc military forces
nsu hecii reenforced, defences strength
r.4 and every precaution taken against
itiimamnn Intervention.
The political possibilities of the sltua
"od continue- to be the most important
'Pt of the new allied offensive be
lau'e of the hitherto comparatively un
lc.she nature of the fighting. There Is
ut.e news of a military nature to-day.
notable jr.ilns or losses by eltheP bel
r''nt ,"'lni' reported. ,
The ottlclni report on operations In the
Halkan front Issued by the French War
'trio to-night says:
Th' Allies have maintained their
,n on 11,0 .Macedonian front. The
rblan have made progress north of
strtifiinn. The enemy's offensive on
Struma and In the vicinity of
U'trnvo Lake has been checked.
It nemn clear that the Bulgarian ad
vanef ,le .struma region has bfen
'".ted, but despatches do not suy
shether that means also the halting of
advance on Seres, which Is on the
railroad north of the Struma. The Bui
r are, n ported by the British War Of
lre to b intrenching along the line of
,e.K,r,"n"' lhe Intention of setting
" Ht""'B system of defences and
weiu hments based on the natural de
"are tho rv,r affords.
Rope to Mop Invasion.
lahllhhig themselves upon such a
"'. If they are able to do It, would en
' the HulRar, to prevent an allied fn
IJtlon of their own country by an ad
ane, ,lp Htrurnm vt,y( ana ,
"rough the horder mountains. The
'fuma vaiiry ,ss no railroad, however.
M'ry 'ndlration has bean that the
"'In allied adviyice will be up the Var-
r valley,
fact that the Bulgara are In
't Oesttnued on Btcond Po$.
SUPER-ZEPS, 780 FEET LONG,
HAVE RADIUS OF 3,000 MILES
I
Two New Air Monsters Ready, Four Building, With
2,000,Q00 Cubic Feet Capacity, Carrying Five
Tons of Bombs, Guns and Crew of 35.
1-ondon, Aug. 33. In a speech deliv
ered at Bury ut. Kdmunda to-night Baron
Montagu of Beaulrtu, former vlce-chalr-man
of the Joint naval and military
board, told of new monster super-Zeppe-Una
which Germany Is building.
"We have obtained some details of
the super-Zeppelins which Germany Is
now building," said Baron Montagu.
"The principal features of the craft are
a capacity of 1,000,000 cubic feet, a
length of 710 feet, a beam of 10 feet, a
maximum speed of 10 miles an hour, a
ilEBKNEGHT GETS 4
YEARS ON APPEAL
Prison Hentence-of Geriiutn So
. einllst Is Increased by
19 Months.
Austuoam, la London, Aug. 2J.
The result of Dr. Karl Llebknechl's ap
peal against his sentence for war treason
has been the Imposition of a new and
severer sentence of four years and one
month penal servitude and expulsion
from the army, according to a despatch
faom Berlin.
The appeal of t(ie Socialist leader was
heard on Wednesday before a Supreme
court-martial presided over by a naval
captain. The other members were two
lawyers, two majors, a captain and a
lieutenant. Llebknecht was defended by,
Herr Bracke of Brunswick. The public
was excluded after the hearing, but sen
tence was announced at an open session.
In-addition to his prison sentence Dr.
Llebknecht is deprived of his civil rights
for six years. In announcing the ver
dict the court declared that the sen
tence was Imposed "for attempted war
treason, severe disobedience and re
sistance against the armed power of the
slate." The court announced that an
the prisoner has already served one
month of his sentence he has the privi
lege of an appeal from the present Judg
ment, tot original sentence Imposed
was thirty months imprisonment and
dismissal from the army.
Commenting on the outcome of the
hearing, the semi-official Wolff Bureau
says:
'The severe sentence appears Justified
despite all the circumstances favorable
to Llebknecht, It one considers that -he-violated
his duties as a soldier and citi
zen In war time In the grossest manner
and to the detriment of his menaced
fatherland. Llebknecht himself admitted
that by the distribution of pamphlets and
by arranging public demonstrations hn
Intended the weakening of German war
strength."
DANES BLOCK ISLAND DEAL.
.Veaotlatlons for Formation of Mew
Cabinet Fall ITtterlr.
Copkniiaoen, Aug. 23. Negotiations
looking to the formation of a coalition
Cabinet failed definitely this afternoon.
The Left and Conservative parties would
not accept the demands put forfcard by
the Radicals and Socialists. It was held
by the Radicals and Socialists that the
question of the sale of the Danish West
Indies should come before the formation
of a new cabinet.
The Lamlsthtng, or t'ppvr House, will
take up the treaty again to-morrow, and
Is expected to reject II.
EARTHQUAKES TN CALIFORNIA.
Severest Skoek Since 1 IM)H Felt lo
Hnmboldt C'oonty.
Kurbka, Cal., Aug. 23. The most vio.
lent earthquake felt here since Apr
1906, when San Francisco was devastates,
rocked the city and nortnern Humboldt
county at 6:SK o'clock this morning.
Til ere was no material damage.
There were two shocks, each lasting
several seconds. Reports of shocks came
from Areata and other points north of
here, but apparently the shocks were
slight In the southern part of the county,
which Is traversed by the 1906 fault line
and dip Into the ocean near the mouth
of the Bear River.
BULLDOGS VOTE IN W. VA.
Federal flrnnd Jury Looking; Into
Tier, Rover and Tomer,
Wssstsk SraiKos, W. Va., Aug. 2 J.
Alleged election frauds are under con
slderatlon by the Federal Orand Jury In
session here. State Senator D. F.
Franch has been appointed to assist
United States Attorney William O.
Barnhart In the prosecution of the cases.
The alleged frauds occurred In the
recent bi-partisan prlmnry June 6, es
pecially In the southern end of the
State, where. It Is alleged, bulldogs were
voted, ballot boxes were stuffed and
military precincts were established.
U. 8. PISHING BOATS SEIZED.
Two Taken by British and Con
veyed to Shetland Isles.
London, Aug. 23. The American fish
Ing schooners Maxlne KUIott, 111 tons,
of Gloucester, Mass., and the Llzxle
Griffin. 107 tons, of Bangor, Me., seised
while fishing off the coast of Iceland by
British patrol boats, have been taken
to Lerwick, Shetland Islands.
Tho American schooner Luclnda J.
Lowell, 110 tons, on the way from
Gloucester. Mass., to Norway with a
cargo of, dried herring, also was taken
Into Lerwick, but waa released after
an examination of her, cargo.
BERLIN, ONT., NOW KITCHENER.
Bmt Most of 10,000 Population Are
f German Descent.
Toronto, Ont., Aug. 23. An Order In
Council was passed to-day changing the
name of Berlin, Ont., to Kitchener. The
proclamation will be Issued September 1.
The town haa about 10,000 Inhabitants,
most of whom are of German origin.
LI Ynaa-Hnas; Approved.
raxiN, Aug. 13. The Tarllament has
unanimously approved the appointment
by President LI Yuan-Hung of Tuan
Chi -Jul as permanent Premier of the
Chlaeae reaubUe.
cruising speed of 15 miles an hour and a
rallus of action of 3,000 miles.
"The engines, six or seven of them,
have a total of 15,000 horse-power.
"The airships can carry a load rt
bombs of five tons. They are able to
ascend 17,000 feet, They nre ui med with
machine guns nt bow and stern and on
lop of the envelope. They carry a crew
of thirty-five men.
"These particulars show how largely
the Hermans are relying on Zeppelins as
n means for harassing us. Two of these
new craft already have been completed
and four will be available In October."
MILLIONAIRE ADOPTS
HIS OWN DAUGHTERS
Wife of Junk Dealer Mukes
Dying Confession Oetogc
narlnn Is Their Father.
Ciiicaoo, Aug. 21. On his dead wife's
dying confession, Jose Bumsteln, a Junk
dealer, swore In the court to-day that
Edward W. Morrison, an eccentric
millionaire Hearing his eightieth year,
wan the father of two girls Bumsteln
had alwnys considered his daughters.
Morrison adopted the girls after their
mother's death a month ago.
"Morrison went to my wife's funeral
with me in June," Bumsteln testified.
"I had heard he, not I, was Anna's and
Alice's father from my eying wire only
a short time before. 1 told him what
she had confused to me, and lie said,
'Oh, very well: I'll tlx it with you.'"
Morrison's estate Is estimated nt be
tween $3,000,000 and JR.OOn.OOO. It had
been believed that lie adopted tlm two
girls to prevent the estate going to the
city of Chicago for educational pur
Pom'S. as his father's will provided If
Morrison dld childless. They have
lived with him for the laM month.
When his turn came to testify Morri
son denied the Junk dealer's accusutlon
vehemently It was no hidden chapter
tn his life and Mrs. Ilurnsteln'e, ,but
fondness for the gills and their mother's
dying request that led him to udopt
tlU'in. he said, Their mother had pleaded
with him when she was very ill to prom
ise that he would care for them If she
died, and he was keeping his promise
to the dead woman, he said, lie had
known the girls nil their lives.
The action was on a petllton to ap
point a receiver for Morrison's proper-JLf.5-.-Jl-
Wt1- alleged that lit the past
swan years" the hermltllKe millionaire
had showered gifts upon friends, giving
away in all some J-'. 000,000 of his es
tate. He gave John Hammers, u friend
for twent-llve jears, 1200,000 fur pro
viding him with omuiem.'iil. He trans
ferred to' James Ward, his lawyer, the
property on which stands Urn Hotel Mor
rison, worth $2,000,000, and gave him
$500,000 outright. Judge IjiimIIs re
strained Ward from collecting tents on
Morrison's gifts to him and from appear
Iiik as counsel in the hearing.
FENFIELD SEES PEACE COMING.
Is) Ilea Must Cease Bemuse of In
tensity, Mr ar"
I.onpo.v, Aug. 5J Renter's Ameiei
dam correspoiuleut foi wards a dtmtili
received from Vienna outllnlih; an Inter
view jmrportlug to have been gUeii the
leima Afire rrrle I'rexie by Frederic t
rViilteld, the American Ambassador M
! Austria-Hungary. The Ambassador l
' quoted as having said he was convinced
i thut Austria-Hungary would survive the
l test of the war without loss of ten I
i tory.
Mr. I'endeld Is said to have added that
the battles were waged with such In
tensity that the combatants would lie
compelled before long to pause for
breath, anil that this Interruption In the
fighting would be employed by favor
ably inclined factors, which were grow.
Iim? stronger In all countries, to discover
a means for bringing about peace..
T. A. HAVEHEYER IN SEA PERIL
Adrift for Thirty Honrs Without
Food or Water.
I.os Anoci.es, Aug, 23. Adrift at sea
In an open boat without food or water
for thirty hours, hattllug to keep the
boat from being blown further away
from land, T. A. Havemeyer tif New
York and "Tuna" Joe, his boatman, were
rescued In Han Clcmento Channel to-day
and taken to Avalon, Catallna Islands,
almost exhausted by the fight.
Tho engine of the Tlo Juan, a thirty
foot craft, broke down after Mr. Hav
emeyer had made several good catches.
When the launch failed to put Into port
friends of Mr, Havemeyer became
alarmed. Several fast launches searched
unsuccessfully for the mlsslnc boat. The
launch Garfield, with the Tio Juan in
tow, came into Avalon thut evening with
the missing men In an exhausted con
dition. FOUR N. Y. WOMEN IN MISHAP.
One Una Both Letts Broken as Mo
tor Drops Into Anaahle River,
rt.ATTSBtiRO. N. V Aug. 23, Miss
Hayes, sister-in-law of Thomas Church
Ill, formerly president of the Board of
Education of New York, Is In a hospital
In this city with both legs broken, and
Miss Muldoon, Miss Mllllgan ami XI Ins
MoOovern, all of New York, are In the
same Institution suffering from shock.
The automobile In which they were
riding dropped thirty-five feet Into
twenty feet of water near Ausahls
Chasm late this afternoon. The driver,
F, W. Judge, an Insurance agent of
this rlty, was Intcrnnlly Injured. He lost
control of the machine, which ploughed
through an Iron railing and over the em
bankment, BEES CLEAR CHICAGO STREET.
Financial District Crowd Runs to
Cover When They Get Loose.
Ciiicaoo, Aug, 23. Ten thousand bees,
liberated In La Salle street, Chicago's
financial district, to-day stung a score of
people, and sent brokers, clerks and mes
sengers hurrying In cover.
The bees, were carried In a rase, A boy
bumped Into a man holding there, caus
ing him to atumble and sntasli Ilia csm,
The usually crowded street was Instantly
deserted for a block,
WILSON ASSAILED BY
GERMAN CATHOLICS
Adopt Bosolution Condemning
President for Attacks on
Foreign Born.
MANY OPPOSE MEASURE
Tclegrum Sent to Lansing Re
manding Religious Liberty
in Mexico.
President Wilson was attacked last
night by the German Roman Catholic
Central Vereln In the final session of
Its convention in the Park Avenue Ho
teU The resolutions condemning the
President for the strictures on German
Americans in his message to Congress
were not acted upon until after a warm
debate on the propriety of a religious
organlxatlon entering Into political fields,
but when the vote waa taken a horus
of "Jab" drowned the few "Neln."
This Is the resolution, which wsa pre
sented to the Vereln by a committee
headed by Joseph Matt of Bt. Paul.
Minn. :
Without precedent In the history of
our country, we find the President of
the United States publicly In his
official message preferring charges
against a part of our cltltenahlp who
theretofore enjoyed the proud distinc
tion of unquestioned loyalty and
patriotism.
We regret this utterance and deplore
Its effects, especially In view of Its
general character, without substantiat
ing facts, as such utterances coming
from such high source are calculated
to foster unfounded suspicion and mis
trust of a large element of our Amer
ican people and- Imperil the consum
mation of a programme of social effi
ciency In our country,
Koelble Faturs Attack.
Among themen who urged the adop
tion of this resolution wjs Alphonse .
Koelble, president of the United German
Socletie" of America, who said;
"I don't think tills convention has a
right or pretends It lias a right to take
side'. Hut I believe the American peo
ple will respect you for coming out with
what yuu consider the truth. We have
been accused of being false to the flag,
1 lhe Hag for which we bled and died. Al-
th'jiiKh I play as safe as any one, I am
In favor of turning against this Infamous
attack on our character."
Another delegate shouted :
"We are not afraid of an mail, no
matter who he is '."
Joseph Frey of this city, who has been
president of the Central Veieln for years,
objected to the resolution on the ground
that It would be construed as an attack
on the candidacy of the President. He
expressed hie Indignation at the Presi
dent's utterances, but said that protest
should have been made at the time they
were Issued and not now.
"We do not attack him," said Frey,
"and we do not speak for Ills candldac
or against It," and added later that the
President should have been made to
prove his accusation" of dMoyalty or
"shut twi."
"We are meeting pilmarlly not as Ger
mans but as Catholics," enld another
delegate, who agreed with Frey. "and
under no circumstances can we afford to
accept the resolution presented here this
evenliiK "
The Vereln jesterday took ietie with
the Administration In another matter
Mexico and sent tlds telegram to Sec
retory I.nnliw !
our Government having recognlaed
the Ciiiransa reglmo In Mexico, thereby
according the no-called de facto" Gov
ernment of the First Chief Carranca a
place among tho nations of the world :
And our Government having at the
time n mured the cltlsens of the United
.States that the de facto Government
of Mexico had solemnly pledged to the
1'nltcd States a guarantee of religious
liberty to all Mexican citizens which
we of cdursn understand to be that re
ligious liberty and freedom of con
science enjoyed in the United States,
which pledge, however, the de facto
Government has not carried out :
We now, as American citizens, call
upon our Government to hold the de
facto Government of Mexico to strict
observance of this guaranten and nc-
countnble fur the violations thereof.
c also demand the protection of
all American citizens and Iheli rights
by the de facto Government of Mexico
Inlertentlon Only Care.
The same question was discussed In
the Vereln yesterday by Mgr. Francis J.
Kelly of Chicago, president of the Cath
olic Kxtenslnn Society, who drew the
Mexican resolution wlUch was adopted
on Tuesday by the American Federation
of Catholic Societies. Mgr. Kelly as
serted that Intervention is the only rem
edy for the troubles encountered by the
Catholics ncrosa the border.
"The vexed question In Mexico Is not
the agrarian hut the religious question,"
said Mgr. Kelly. "Religion and religious
freedom are the causes of the whole
right. It Is a fight against the Catholic.
Church, such us was waged In Portugal,
Italy and South America, but I believe It
found u climax In Mexico."
Discussing President Wilson's appoint
ments to the Mexican Commission the
speaker said he understood that one of
Its members Is n Trntcstant minister.
"The VllllstuH and the Zapatistas are
not opposed to religion except that they
do not want the priests to work much
among the people, to have the distribu
tion of charities, or to have Catholic
Institutions, such as schools. These
things became obnoxious In them, and
tho result of this wns that the freedom
of religious practice became curtailed,
"Now to prove o you that tho Mexi
can question Is not a land question I
will say there are millions and millions
of acres of land which the Government
Is willing to sell to tho people at a
coupla of pesos an acre If the people
only rare to take up Its cultivation.
"The real question which Is the re
ligious one cannot bo settled without
the United States stepping In. Mexico
cannot live without us."
The speaker told of priests being put
In Jail and forbidden to heat confes
sions. This oppression, he said, was at
tho hands of the Socialists In power In
Yucatan.
"The government of Yucatan Is there
fore about the same form of government
as that of Russia, except that at least
Russia, hss n Duma, where matters ara
taken up and discussed."
A third Catholic organization In con
vention here this week has come out
with Mexican resolutions. This was the
Catholl" Toting- Man's National Union.
, CeaNnaed en rMrd Poet.
DEUTSCHLAND BACK
AT WESER'S MOUTH
German Merchant Submarine
Makes Home Voyage in
Twenty-one Days.
ALL ON BOARD ARE WELL
Eastern Passage Six Days
Longer Than Crossing
to Baltimore.
llr.r.i.i.v (by wireless to Sayvllle) Aug.
S3. The merchant submarine DeuteeJi
land arrived at the mouth of the Weser
on her way to Bremen on August 23
(Wednesday), according to the Overseas
News Agency. The submarine anchored
before the mouth of the river. All on
board' were well.
The Deutsohland, a German supersub.
marine built for carrying merchandise,
arrived at Baltimore from Bremen on
July 8 with a cargo of dyestuffs and
malls. Uersurrlval was halted In Ger
many ss the beginning of a regular sub
marine merchant service between the
United States and Germany which would
be able to defy the British blockade. It
was announced that she would be fol
lowed shortly by the Bremen, a sister
ship.
The Peutschland passed out of the Vir
ginia Capes on her return trip at half
past 8 on the night of August 2, so she has
been Just three weeks on the way. H
look her sixteen days to get to Baltimore
from Bremen-, counting the many hours
spent submerged when British ships were
about.
Though the night the Deutschland
chose to strike out across the Atlantic
was dark and foggy British and French
cruisers had been waiting for her oft the
capes at lhe entrance to Baltimore har
j bor eer since her arrival. On that
night their searchlights streamed across
the sky Just outside the three mile limit,
but the next day they were still, there,
ami It seemed that they had missed her
i utterly, not even knowing thst she hsd
gone.
Uscorted by the tug Thomas F. Tim
mln the Deutschland stopped at the
Cape Ifenry side of the outlet, then dived.
For a moment her periscojie showed,
then thai, too, disappeared and she wss
t gone.
Slme then there have been all manner
nf reports of the Deutschland. She was
safe In port, she had been captured bv
British warship, qhe had blown up.
all kinds of things had happened to her.
jShe wns reported In a private despatch
last Friday as having arrived In Bremen
on lhe preceding day. A day or two
later she ai reportei.stghted off the
I Grand Hanks. Other Sports have had
,her off the Maine const on August 7.
BREMEN THOUGHT NEAR.
I'nnsnal rtlvltr of (ierssan Ships
Tied I'p nt Holloa.
Boston. Aug. 23, Activity smong
some of the Interned German ships at
this port und various reports concerning
them nltracted the attention of the water
front to-day. The steamship Wlllehad
of the North Herman Lloyd Line emerged
from a dry dock, took aboard several hun
dred tons of coal, a large quantity of Ice
and stores and added sailors from other
vessels to her crew. The ship then moved
back to her pier.
Officers of the steamship and of the
line who were questioned regarding a
report that the Wlllehad was going to
New London In connection with the ex
pected arrival there of the merchant sub
marine Bremen said they had no knowl
edge of such a plan.
HEAT KILLS 5, PROSTRATES 18.
Temperature Lower, but llunildlty
Makes It Seem Wstrsser.
Incieased humidity and high tempera
Hire caused five deaths and sixteen pros,
tratlons here yesteyday. Humidity
registered 81 early In the day, went
down to about B0, then back to 32, Its
highest point, by evening. The ther
mometer showed 90 degrees at 1 M0
P. M , four degrees below the record
breaking heat of Tuesday. A shower
helped out In the evening.
The deaths, all In Brooklyn, equalled
the high figure of the season on August
. They were Patrick H. Day, 3S, of 636
Franklin avenue; Mrs. Mary Allen. 3S.
of 4401 yourth avenue: Mrs. Bessie
llammellsnnd, M, of 104 Walton street;
Testa Bulkewles, 6 months, of 122 Nos
trand avenue, and Herman Sussmsn, 10
months, of r, Srlgel street.
Fair and cooler to-morrow, the weather
man says
BRITISH STEAMER FOUNDERS.
Ilnebrn lilts Borksi .'14 Saved, Cap
tain and 9 Mlsalng.
l.oNDOK. Aug, 33. The British steamer
Qurbra has foundered after striking
rocks west of the nig Blasket Island, off
the coast of Kerry. Thirty-four of the
crew have been lauded at Ventry. The
captain and two sailors sre missing.
Tha Quebra was a vessel of 3.S01 tons.
She was owned by the Mercsntlle Steam
ship Company of London and sailed
from New York for Liverpool on Au
gust 18.
KILLS SELF ON BOARDWALK.
Wntrhrs Fashion Parade, Then
Kndu Life l.earea Note to Wife.
Atlantic' Citt, Aug. :3. Thomas
Rlakey, 3r, while watching the fashion
parade on the Board Walk at i o'clock
to-night, nt Providence avenue, drew a
revolver from his pocket and killed him
self hy sending a bullet Into his brain.
A note to his wife at 17t West Olney
avenue, Philadelphia, asked forgiveness
and assigned 111 health and lack of em
ployment as the reason for ending his
life.
WINTER, FROST, SNOW ARRIVE.
AH Registered at the Welder
Astoria Hotel,
When It grew cooler last night soma
persons thoughtlessly credited the Im
provement to the shower, but those t7ho
were better Informed knew It was be
cause Winter, Frost and Snow had come
to town.
F. F. Winter of Cleveland, Ohio : John
Frost of San Antonio, Tex., and Mr. and
Mrs, Chester Snow of Boston all reg
istered during the day at the Waldorf
Astoria hotel.
lT mab mna wivn.
at, tat ease at sis ataaa - hatiu
VILLA HIDING, HIS POWER
BROKEN, SA YS PERSHING,
HASCEASED TOBE FACTOR
Once Leader of Mexican Army Now Abandoned by
Followers Unable to Recruit Force Since
U. S. Broke Up His Band.
Wahminoton, Aug. 23, In a telegram
lo the War Department to-day Brig.
Gen. Pershing reported that Vllia'a pres
tige In gono and that he can never again
become a serious factor In Mexican 'af
fairs. The despatch, sent from the expedi
tionary headquarters at Colonla Dublan,
follows :
"My last report regarding Villa at
tack on Parral Is now reported to be In
correct. Villa had only small following.
He avoided Parral and places occupied
by Carranza troops. He wns making his
way south Into Durango. Probably now
hiding In mountains.
"Until recently Villa has been hiding
since being driven to mountains of south
ern Chihuahua by our troops last April.
His late attempt to obtain following re
ported ns almost total failure. Opinion
seems general that Villa's prestige Is
gone and that he can never again be
come serious factor In Mexican affairs."
Army officers here were Inclined to re
gaid the report of Villa's loss of pres.
tlge as most Important and likely to
have a bearing on the question of the
withdrawal of the American forces In
Mexico.
To Meet In .evr England.
W A Stl f Vnfrivr A, OS TL
.. - , " n - " una
Comtnlsnlnn irhlh It. ... .. .t
settlement of differences between the
unuea hi ales and Mexico will begin its
meetings in the week of September 3
somewhere on the New England coast,
according to an announcement mode by
Secretary Lansing this afternoon after a
conference with ttlluAn imnn.1, f.i.
can Ambassador Designate. '
-xir. Lansing appeared In good humor
1,100 MEAT DEALERS
. FACE PROSECUTION
Puckers Suy Enforcement of
Vonkcrs Decision Will Cost
82.500,000 a Year.
Following the decision in Yonkem on
Tuesday finding Swift tt Co., meat pack
ers, guilty of selllnsr hams without mark
ing the net and gross weight of the sub
stance, for which a fine of 1100 was Im
posed by City Judge Beall, John F. Far
rell. State Superintendent of Weights and
Measures, announced yesterday that 1,100
cases of similar violations will be taken
Ui) at once against local and Slate retail
ers, most of which will centre In New
Vork city.
"There nie many cases of retail bulch
ers selling meat products, such as bam.
In paper wrapping, and rhnrvlnsr meat
prices fur the paper, when the law ex
pressly says that all such products shall
be plainly marked with the net and grow
weight, so that lhe consumer can easily
tell Just what h la paiug fort" said
Mr. Farreil.
I The decision against Swift A Co,
which followed closely upon similar ac
tion taken against Armour A Co.. now
means that virtually all the meat park
ing companies doing business In New
York Stale hove been compelled to live
up to the weights and measures law.
Mr. Farreil predicted that efforts to re
verse the Yonkers decision by carrying
the matter to the hkher courts, which
Is being done, will result In failure.
lie pointed to figures showing that for
every pound of hum sold In New Yoik
State there la one ntince nf n.inr arrnii.
ping sold at regular meat prices In vio
lation of the statute. Meat packers as
sert they stand to lose 32.500,000 In the
State ant.ii.illy by the decision
MILK INQUIRY ON TO-MORROW.
I Dealer. Will Tell Wlrka Board
Why Price Was Pnt Up,
The Wicks Legislative committee,
which has been investigating the milk
situation up State for several weeks past,
will arrive In New York to-morrow to
take up the local problem with virtually
all the city's mill; dealers, who have
been Invited tn attend a hearing In City
Hall at 10 o'clock.
Because of the seriousness nf the situ
ation here, the threatened strike of pro-
ducers and the snaring price of milk,
I the committee wishes to learn all phases
of the problem with n possible view to
' adopting regulations which hnve been
' put Into successful operation In other
I States, notably Massachusetts, where the
Chamber of Commerce of Boston con
' ducted an Inquiry Into milk conditions
In New Knrlarul a snort time ago.
Testimony will be gathered not only
from the large distributing companies,
but from the smallest milk dealers, bear
ing on the reason for tho sudden rise tn
the price of milk, and what measures
can be taken to solve the problem.
NINE HURT IN BRIDGE CRASH.
g it r face Car on Qneenshoro Hpan
Itnms the One Ahead.
Nine persons, seven of whom weie
women, were Injured late yesterday
afternoon when a North Reach surface
enr crashed Into a Queens county sur
face car on the Queensboro Bridge.
The Injured were treated by an ambu
lance surgeon from Polyclinic Hospital
mid molt of them returned to their
homes. The accident, however, caused
a panlo In the cars and delayed traffic
for twenty minutes.
Both curs were approaching the Man
hattan end of the bridge when the car
from North Reach ran Into the rear of
the car ahead, which had halted because
the trolley pole had Jumped the, wire.
The motormen, Thomas Wilson and
Frederick Schwager, were uninjured.
MEAT CARDS IN ALL GERMANY,
Vw Hnle Restricts Supply tr Half
Poena Weekly.
Br.ni.lN, via London, Aug, 23. The
Oovernment has Issued a decree provid
ing for the Introduction of meat cards
for the whole empire on October 2,
Families butchering for their own
consumption are subject to the card sys.
tern. They will be required to obtain
srmlsslnn from local authorities before
utcherlng animals for household con
sumption. a
The maximum amount of meat pro
vided for under the new card svstsm will
be 319 grams (slightly more than half
a pound) weekly.
after this conference and He nor Arie
dondo hurtled to the embassy to cable
Gen. Carranxa that arrangements had
at last been completed.
After the news that the roast of New
England Instead of the New Jersey
coast had been selected for the meetings
it was first believed that the Adminis
tration favored Maine as the scene of
deliberations, especially as the elections
In that State would closely follow the
Initial meetings.
Mr. Lansing, however, discouraged
this suggestion. He said the exact place
would be drslgnuted so soon as he had
a chance lo consult the American com
missioners, who arc Secretary of the
Interior Lane, Judge George Gray and
John R. Mott. Magnolia, Mass., Is
mentioned as HUely to be chosen. The
American representatives will corns to
Washington within a few days for a
preliminary conference with Secretary
Lansln;.
Mr. Arredondo said he did not know
whether the Mexican representatives had
started for the United States, but pre
sumed they would await word from the
embassjyhere before leaving. The Mexi
can commissioners are Luis Cabrera,
Minister of Finance ; Ygnaclo Bonlllas
and Alberto Pan!, both the latter en
gineers and men of wide experience.
Whether they will come to Washing
ton to pay their respects to President
Wilson snd Secretary Lansing prior to
the meeting lias, not been settled. Mr.
Lansing denied a report that the United
States Government would place one tff
the American warships at Vera Crux at
their disposition tn bring them to this
country.
GLIB THIEF LOOTS
DRIVE APARTMENTS
Poses as Rich Man, "Hires"
I Flnts With Bad Checks,
' 'I'll en Hobs Them.
For the past six weeks agents and
tenants of Riverside Drive apartment
Louses have been telling the Harlem
detectives about a young man with a
nrartd manner who was swindling them
by means of bad checks and plain theft.
He went up and down the drive and
through the side streets pretending to
be looking for a furnbihed apartment
on a year's lease. He said he was
Frederick J. Brennler, a son of County
Judge Brennler of Kingston. He would
point through windows at any yacht
that caught his eye In the Hudson, say-
lug, "mats mine. I want to get
home as near to her mooring place as
possible."
His conversation was full of automo
biles, country estates and wealthy friends.
He gave as a reference the Marconi
Company of 42 Broadway, where he. nuld
he was an Important officer, but he
never returned to face proof that this
claim was untrue.
When he found an npaitment that
tools his eye he gave a check for n
year's or half a year's rent In advance.
If left alone In an apartment he usually
manngi'd- -so the police say to pocket
whatever valuables were easily nsslmlln-
ble
nomeumes ne succeeded In getting
change in cash for u check that ex-
reeded tint stipulated rental. Among the
apartment houses that complained to the
police were the Chestei field nt 2fi Riv
erside Drive, the Cromwell at COn River
side Drive, and the houses nt '.'O." West
inr.th street and til West lStilh ureet.
yesterday Harlem detectives learned
thnt Brennler was in the Tombs prison.
; He had been arrested in P.llenville, N
Y on Monday by Heailiiuartei s Detec
tive Hayes rharsed with stealing $3."i
from Arthur Werner and held In
I ball In the Tombs court He Is to be
! arraigned In Special Sessions to-day,
I According to mi nnnnymnus message
received yesterday by Detective Mrllee
of the Hnrlem branch llrennler "is the
mnn who has been robbing the million
aires' colony nt Ithlnecllff, N. V"
The police circular describing him
says he Is addicted to the use of drugs.
TO FIGHT B. & M. RECEIVER.
. Road Consents, lint ltorney for
Mlnnrlt; Pinna Contest,
j Boston, Aug, 23. In answer to the
petition for a receiver for the Boston and
.Miilne Riiilni.nl, which was tiled In the
I'nlted States District Court yesterday.
I the mad to-day announced Its consent to
an order appointing n receiver, and
I averred that the matters contained In the
.bill of complaint are true. The answer
I was filed late to-day by Oeurgo L. Mny-i
' berry, counsel for the road.
Receivership proceedings, however, will
be sharply contested. In a statement Is
sued to-night Conrad W, Crooker, Junior
counsel for the Roston minority stock
holders' association, claiming lo represent
S00 out of approximately 63,000 shares,
said :
"We shall fight any such petition from
the drop of the hat to the last ditch.
There Is no excuse for the directors' re-
fusnl to tnnlce Home effort tn aeeura n
I newnl of iTiMtlt.
The petition for n receivership con
tends that outstanding notes of the com
pany aggregating 313,300,060 cannot bo
paid when they fall due August 31,
On this date also payment will be
demanded on notes by the Vermont
Valley Railroad Company, amounting
to (2,300,000, Indorsed by the Boston
und Maine,
KILLED RESISTING EVICTION.
Kansas City Man First Mortally
Wounds Two Policemen.
Kansas City, Mo , Aug. 23. Resent
ing attempts to eject him from the
HVartment he was occupying, Dr. Fred
M, Utrkln, rollector of ancient and curl
ouh weapons, opened lire with a pistol
upon two policemen this evening. In an
exchange of shots that followed t.arkln
was killed, Philip R. Ncfl and fileiin
Marshall, patrolmen, were probably
mortally wounded, and Mrs. Maude
Kchord, living In a nearby apartment,
was wounded by a stray bullet,
Irktn had been notified to give up
his rooms, but failed to mote, The
landlord appealed to the police.
WILSON'S STAND
ON ARBITRATION
CALLED UNFAIR
i
Policy in Rail Crisis Brings
Bitter Attack From J. M.
Dickinson.
IMPATIENCE SHOWN
BV BROTHERHOODS
Proposal Made to Go Home
and let Leaders Ar
range Strike.
MORE TIME NEEDED
- TO FORMULATE PLAN
Jlessages From All Over
Country Commend Posi
, tion of Executives.
Washington, Aug. 23. Another day,
of deliberation on tho part of tho rail
way executives fulled to bring per
ceptibly nearer the solution of th
problem upon which a national rail
road strike depends.
The executives' commlttro of eight,
struggled to devise n plan which would
meet the Ideas of the President and
prove noceptuble tn the employees of
the four brotherhoods. When tho com
mittee members met with their col
leagues and the railroad managers to
night they reported that they, had
mnde no progress.
Hole Holden of thu Burlington, Hobert
S. Lovett of the Union 1'aclflo and
President Wlllnrd of tho Haltlmord
and Ohio again discussed tho situation
with the President at tho Whlto House
for upward of an hour to-night.
The President It Is understood, has
promised to use hla Influence to, get
the Interstate Commerce Commleskm
to grant the roads un Increase In rates
If It appears that such n raise Is Justi
fied. The railroads hud oskeA for a
guarantee that they might raiso rate
If a raise WPrei Justified and on Investi
gation of the working1 of tho eight
hour day. Senator Xowlunds suld after
talking with President Wilson that he
would push ut onco his bill to odd twu
members to the Interstate Commrrco
Commission, which the roads, think
means that their requests fur m rate
inerent.e and nn Investigation of the
right hour day will receive; early con
sideration. Meantime railway executives nre be
coming more and more bitter ovi r the
President's pence plan. .Incnli .M.
Dickinson, foinier Secretary of Win
and now rf elver nf the Hurl: Island,
Issued n statement to-day Inveighing
against the President for discarding
the jitlnclple nf hi Miration a lid for
insisting that the r.iilionds gram the
employees nn eight hour day. Mr
Dickinson predicted u renewal nf in
dustrial strife us moil us the present
controversy is nut nf the way. .Mi.
Dickinson N a Demiicr.it nint worked
for .Mr. Wlluins election. Ills attack
'on President Wileim is regarded, theie-
fore, us nil the more striking
lllekliismi's Miitrmrnt.
Mr IilcUlnt-on's jt,iiiil f. inwv
"The plain Issue i w licther men op
etatlnK the livichlnel nf public lltlbtlis
iiisni which depend not onlv prnctlctljv
I all the, business of i bund (d million
j people ' but their veiv lives, and 'n
I functions nf all government. State .mil
national, can enforce nn arbitral y rte
! tnand for Increase of p'ly bv threaten
ing the renrral welfare of all tile other
' pmple. If the milro.nl malingers should
.seek to inforce n demand for a icdue.
Hon of piy bv threatening a nenera'
lockout the people would Immedlateh
overwhelm them with rlghtmus Indigna
tion. "If the tnllinnd managers yield the
principle of arbitration wil: be. over
thrown, the Imic merely will be i-'
pnned and not i-ettlcil and will rctupi
In aggravated form Jitstitled by confi
dence based upon success.
"It Is a greater qu stion than m
of compensation to emplojeos or return
upon capital. It Is vital to the life or
th American people, and they alone
have the power to settle It on n stable
lwisls.
'The President has Intervened. Some
are saying thnt he has been the arbi
trator, and that In tnls way tne prin
ciple has been maintained. This con
tention Is manifestly false and la m.id.i
to mislead the public thought, TIcj
President has not made and cannot
make such c'ulm, The mploees it s
tlhctly refuse all arbitration of the de.
mand for an eight hour day. The rail
road managers hnve never made b m as
arbitrator
"lie tins publicly announced that the
question of nn eight hour day was mv.
arbitrable, If he Is not clearly tight
he iias dealt a severe blow to the prin
ciple of arbitration, lie liases Ids con
clusion entirely on a premise tfCit so
ciety has determined that the eight hour
day must bo ndoptul.
Not Determined by I. nre,
I "This premise will be denied earnestly
and honestly bv a laige part of the
American people, Certainly society has
not determined it by law If so the law
would fettle It and no such question could
arise, Parts of society have determined
It by law for special classes and spechl
nlnc'cH The fict that It has not been
I generally decreed by law shows that ao
cletv has not determined the Ismim.
"The President has probably gone be.
yond the nation of society The most
that can bo said for his premise Is that
he assumes It upon his rnnrt.pt Inn of
what society wisbes or may do. He may
forecast correctly, but Ml best It Is a
prophecy, Upon this, bacKed by the
prestige of his great office, he has d,e
