ifmfv9rmm4f -
7F I N A N"C I A t, E D I T I 0 1ST
iJittlQtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. U. NO. 295
NIGHT
EXTRA
ettm
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, AlTGrTJST 21, 1910.
CopisianT, 1010, lit Tilt Pusua Loots Couritir.
PRICE ONE CENT
ttfm-"-
L.
ill
I.
I
(THOUSANDS OF SONS
., i ,JL ..,. ,,.- - - ..,-..,. A - '"" '4 -- --ifT'rjT-y.i M yi'jjrCTrT'yyim
Camps representing virtually every
aucrnoon. mc parauc was
ATHENS ORDER!
ARM AT SERE
TO WITHDRAW
Commander Who Resisted
Bulgar Invasion Over
ruled by Own Gov
ernment SERBS SCORE VICTORY
War Moves on All Fronts
Outlined for Quick Reading
1.
Balkan front Bulgars are
- J. shelling the town of bores,
n In eastern Macedonia, which is de
fended by Greek and French troops.
Bloody battles have occurred " be
tween Bulgars and Greeks in that
zone.
Asia Minor Russian troops
havo scored a great victory
Tigris River, near Mosul,
they have ..defeated four
on tho
where
Turkish divisions and captured two
whole regiments.
3 Eastern front Pctrograd
o announces tho repulse of
German attacks on tho banks of the
Stokhod nnd tho capture of Turkish
soldiers fighting in Austrian ranks.
Otherwise the situntion is un
changed. 4 West front Two German
attacks near Soyecourt,
south of the Somme, preceded by in
tense artillery fire, were completely
repulsed by tho French in Jast
night's fighting, it was officially an
nounced today. Tho Germans nre
again attacking near Verdun.
LONDON, Aug. 21.,
Greek troops nround tho ancient city of
Seres nre evacuating their positions nnd
retiring southward under orders from the
Greek Government, Bald an Athens dis
patch this afternoon.
The retirement was ordered after Greek
Jiosltlona had been heavily bombarded by
the Bulgarians for several hours.
The Greek commander .In tho Seres re
gion, who prepared for a determined re
sistance as tho Bulgarians approached the
dry, -was appirently overruled by his su
periors at the capital.
PAniS, Aug. 21. Both the French and
the Serbian forces of tho Entente Allies
have won victories against' the Bulgarians,
it was announced In an official report from
General Sarrall at Salonica, issued hero to
day by tho "War Office. The French drove
the Bulgarians back across tho Struma
River, northeast of Salonica, and the Ser
bians wgn back a ho'ght they had lost near
take Ostrovo on tho Allies' left wing.
The official report follows;
Right wins of tho armies of the
Allies The enemy was forced to with
draw from the left bank of the Struma
at various places In retreating toward
Seres.
Between tho Struma and tho upper
Mojelenlcc Valjey, Anglo-French troops
repulsed without difficulty several at
tempts of the enemy to retake positions
occupied by us north of pums.
In the Do I rati sector toward
LJumnlca and on tho whole mountain
ous front west of Mojelenlca, the
Serbian troops are developing Ihelr of
fensive. On the extreme left they have
reoccupled, through a vigorous counter
attack, Height 1506, which is about
three miles west of Lake Ostrovo. This'
Continued on Pace Four, Column Ouo
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and Friday; slightly warmer
frtday; light, variable winds, becoming
toutherly.
LENGTH OF DAY.
BIO a.ni.Moon rises 1:13 a.m.
8 4Sn.m. Uiua south. 8.SS a.D3.
!W rUea
Sua uu
PEtAWAKE BIVEB TIDE CHAHCK3,
CHESTNUT STREET.
tziri w 5i:atu low wair.. a - v,u.
l"b water 10 29 a m. IllUn wt 10 ST p.m.
TEMPKBATCBK AT JSACU HOl'B.
ejT irt t , , ii , I i
5DS fa trot Wtl&Trs
OF AMERICA MOVE DOWN BROAD STREET
important town and city in the State
irom uiamonu 10 uicitinson street, past
Appeal Issued by Police
to Man Who Killed Youth
TO the Man Who Did the
Shooting:
If you killed Edward Boland while
protecting tho life of a woman, you
were performing a manly act.
I assure you that if you shot this
man solely for tho protection of
yourself and possible companion, you
cannot bo looked upon as a mur
derer. Your act was justifiable if you
felt convinced that you were about
to bo attacked and waylaid.
You owe it to the family of tho
murdered youth as well as to the
community to como forward and
make proper explanation.
THEODORE WOOD,
Acting Captain of Detectives.
POLICE TO
NAME OF WOMAN
IN PARS SHOOTING
V
Agree Not to Reveal -Identity
of JDompanion if Man
Confesses
NO GOOD CLUES FOUND
After Issulmr an annenl to tho man who
killed Edward Boland In Falrmount Park
to como to tho police with his story, Acting
Captain of Detectives Theodora Wood ex
plained today that ho bellevcithe motorist
who shot when ho was surprised by Boland
and his six companions In Hairpin turn, of
Nell! drive, may bo hiding In fear of bring
ing tho woman who wa3 with him into dis
repute and shame.
"If tho man will come to ui with a
confession." said tho acting captain, "wo
can arrange never to make public tho name
of tho woman he was believed to have
been hugging nnd kissing when tho young
men found them by tho roadside.
"This Is the most baffling thing wo have
had to work out In years. In tho 36 hour3
since tho murder wo have not found the
smallest clue. Thero has not even been
a letter from a crank, Usually such a
mystery brings us several letters and tele
phono calls from persons who admit they
are guilty of the crime. In this case there
has not even been that."
'Acting Captain Wood called upon every
policeman and detective In the city today
to give their attention to the case. At
rollcatl at tho Detective Bureau this morn
ing ho spent 15 minutes telling the men
what clues the bureau no"w has and Im
pressing them with tho Importance of find
ing the murderer.
All garages in the city and Its vicinity
also were called upon today to help solve
the mystery. Garago men were asked to
watch the cars that came in and went out.
They wero given what descriptions of tho
car occupied by the murderer they have
received from tho boys wjth Boland.
An automobile which Park uuara uen
ham found In Belmont drive, Falrmount
Park, Ave miles from the scene of the mur
der, and which the police thought might
have, been abandoned by the murderer, was
stricken from the list of clues today. It
was found that the owner of the car had
lent It to friends and that It had broken
down with them. Not understanding the
Continued on I'ago To, Column To
HURT, STICKS TO HIS ENGINE
' i -i i i
CO-Year-Old Engineer Struck by Stone
' at Tuckerton, Pa.
Bobert Bamfor, a 60-year-old engineer
of the Reading Railway, ttUQk to Ms post
and brought Ills trajn safely to this city
today despite the fact that his Jaw had
been shattered by a stone, which was
thrown through the cab window.
Bamford jwas struck as the train was
passing Tuckerton, Pa. WJtien he reached
hero the engineer was In great pain.
A portion of his cheek bone was re
moved and he Is on the -way to recovery.
Bamford Uvea at 1701 Lehigh avenue.
were represented in the procession which
tne Academy or Music, where it was re
ALLIES ENGAGED
AMERICAN SHIPS
TO TRAP U-LINER
Schooners Were to Signal
Presence to Enemy War
craft, Koenig Says
CROSSES- IN 23 DAYS
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
BCULI.V, Aug. 21. Tho German com
merce submarine Deutschland eluded at
least eight English warships nnd a whole
fleet ot American fishing schoonerH in tho
employ of tho Allies when sho dashed out to
sea from tho Virginia capes on the night of
August 2, it wa3 learned hcio today.
Captain Koenig had no fear ot tho Allied
warship patrol when ho steamed southward
from Baltimore, but ho had not counted
on .tho American tchooncra hlied to help
trap hls vessel. Passing out of tho capes
the Deutschland encountered n great num
ber of theso schooners lying just outsldo
Chesapeake Bay. Tho schooners had dropped
their nets, ostensibly to fish. Their real
purpose, Captain Koenig said, was to mako
soundings for tho Dnutschland, alining to
algiml Allied warships if the subniarino
plunged through their nets.
Koenig telegraphed tho Ocean Company,
owners of his vessel, that the American
Government observed correct neutrality
throughout tho Doutschland's stand. Both
the British and French warships respected
American rights and mado no attempt to
approach within tho thrcc-mllo zone In
their efforts to trap tho submarine. How
many French warships wero engaged in
the patrol ho did not know.
Oreat crowds greeted Captain Koenig
and his crow whon tho first submersible to
cross tho Atlantic returned tc her homo
port nt Bremen last night.
UNDER WATEH ONLY 110 MILES.
During the wholo journey of 4200 miles
tho Deutschland was hubmersed for only
110 miles. The weather was splendid at
tho beginning of her voyage, but bejime
stormy later. The blow ceased as tho
Deutschland approached the English coast,
but some difficulty was experienced becvJse
of the heavy fog. Tho necessity for fuel
ing her way slowly In tho thick mists de
layed the Deutschland's arrival several
days.
Upon entering tho North Sea the sub
marina encountered severe storms. She
proved her excellent sencraft, her engines
working perfectly despite tho fact that she
was being rolled by mountainous waes.
But few vessels wero sighted and not a
single Iceberg was encountered. The
Continued on Tate Tour, Column Three
INDIANS TIE MACKS;
A'S TAKE LEAD AGAIN
Each Score One Run in Fifth;
Speaker Spiked and Forced
to Retire
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
SHIBE PARK, Aug. 21 Jack Nabora
got by without allowing the Indians to
score In the first Inning of the first game
here today. Pick was at third baso instead
of BIcKlwee.
Lee Kohl picked Lambeth, a youngster,
to face the Mackmen. He also pitched
no-run ball in the tlrst Inning.
Tho Athletics wero first to score, getting
four runs in the second round And sending
Lambeth from the mound. Klejifer replaced
him,
In the third Nabors was unable to find
the plate, and, after walking three men,
Myers took his place. Three men scored
before Elmer could retire the side.
This Speaker slid into Plak's spikes in
the UUh. and the star was hurst so baldly
It was necessary for Coumbo to run for
him,. The Indians tied the score In this
frame.
yigST INNING.
Graney walked Grsney djed stealing,
PlelnicJi to Lajole. Pick threw Turner
Cauiloutd on ran Two, Column Oca
IN COLORFUL ARRAY
drew thousands of spectators this
reviewed by prominent officinls.
MAYOR MAY OUST
HIS SAFETY CHIEF
TO SUIT PENROSE
Smith Persistently Rumor
ed About to Retire Director
Wilson, Vare Man
WOULD WIN OPPOSITION
A persistent rumor that Director William
H. Wilson, of tho Department ot Public
Safety, will return from his 'ncatlon ns n
private citizen became current In political
circles today. Tho rumor. It wan Bald,
could bo traced directly to tho factional
enemies of Wilson In the Republican Organl
atloti, but noutrnl political obscnern pointed
out that thero was some actual basis for
such n rcporf ns a result otvtho Grand
Jury vice Investigation.
It Is an established fact that the Pcnrose
McNIchol wing In tho Organization has been
laying plans to get Wilson's official head
nnd to supplant him with a man less In
clined to glo unswerving allegiance to tho
Vnros. Tho Grand Jury Investigation, It Is
said, gave them Just the opportunity they
had been seeking.
Testimony offered beforo the July Grand
Jury procd Ico In ovory form had flour
ished and giown under Wilson's police rule.
It became known after tho Jury made Its
formal report to Judge Itotlgers that some
membora of tho Investigating body had
favored a recommendation calling Wilson
to account for failure to clenn up tho city.
A majority, however, opposed this recom
mendation. WILSON FOES ACTIVE
Tho enemies of Wilson wero loud In
their declaration that the results of the
probe had established cither that corrup
tion had flourished with Wilson's knowl
edge nnd approval or that ho had proved
himself Incapable of tho ndmlnlstrntlon of
the affaire of the Department of Public
Safety. The frequent declaration of Mayor
Smith, that ho would clean up Philadelphia
no matter who might bo hurt politically,
was recalled In this connection.
it was also reported nt the beginning of
tho probe that tho spectacular Tenderloin
raid of July 15 bad been engineered by tho
Penrose-McNIchol leaders to embarrass the
Mayor either by proving him Insincere In
hl3 pledge. to wipe out vice or to forco him
to remove tho head of the department under
which tho corruption had been allowed to
flourish.
The removal of Director Wilson, It is
said, would completely win the support of
the Penrose-McNIchol faction to Mayor
Smith and would strengthen him politically
because the Vares could not afford to throw
him down on account of one single ehow of
Independence,
WHEAT PRICES TO SOAR;
"BLACK RUST" IS CAUSE
May Reach Unprecedented Fig
ure; Belt of Northwest Swept
by Severe Epidemic
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. "Black rust"
probably will be the cause of sending iWicat
prices, soaring to unprecedented heights
with the coming of the spring wheat out
put, according to the United States De
partment of Agriculture today. One offi
cial said ?2 wheat now appears probable.
One of the most severe epidemics of
"black rust" ever recorded has swept the
wheat belt of the Northwest, causing un
precedented damage, presaging a produc
tion far below normal.
Commercial reports arriving at the de
partment not only substantiate the predic
tions of the Government esperts, but, It Is
said, tend to- place the loss at a far greater
figure, with correspondingly high prices
certain for the fall and winter.
The Infected area Minnesota and the
two Dakotas produces, it is said, the great
er part of the spring crop. The reappear
ance of the Hessian fly, with the Inferior
quality of giain sown, will tend to reduce
greatly the crop In other sections of the
country, it Is said-
QUICK
CLEVELAND.... 0030100 ..
ATHLETICS 1st G 0 k 0 0 1 0
Lambeth,. Klcnfcr, Covclesklc nnd O'Well NaWs, Myers nnd prdnlth,
AMERICAN LEAGUE
ST. LOUIS, 1st rjf....o OOOOOO
M2WYOIW h 1OO00O
t oom nut gevereld; Shocker am! Ifuuaiuaks:'.
ARCH13ISII01? SPALDING MUCH WEAKER
TEOXtlA, III,, Aug;. 24. Aichulsiiop Spalding: wntf considerably
n-faker today. 'Ho Is only fnhly rational and takes nourishment
' with difficulty.
FIFTH GERMAN WAR LOAK SEPTEMBER 4
'XUV. HAGUE, Aug. SI. The German Government has begun to
spread piopaganda in favor of the new Ocrmnn v;nr loan the fifth
vbich will bu launched about September , The subscription 1l-i
111 clone r. mo."lh later. The loan will be ibsucd at OS and will puy
l) per cent.
TOUR WORKMEN ITILLED BY CRANES' COLLAPSE'
EEIE, Pa.. Aug. 21. Two heavy cranes, said to have hcen over
loaded, bioke at the National Foundry this morning ttillinj at lcaot
four workmen and injuring sis or .even others.
HEAVY CANNONADING nEARD IN NORTH. SEA..
1 ' .. ' ' ,L'
AISSTEKDAM, Aug. 4. Henvy gunfiro waa heard.; uoih'. or
Ameland Island nil morning. Amclaud IbTnnd is in U15. North, Sen,
oir tlib coast of Holland." , v"
RUSSIAN TORPEDO BOAT REPORTED DAMAGED
BmtlilN. Aug. 21. A largo Itus.uian torpcuo boat ia rcportefl
to hayc been badly damaged Tuesday by 'cm explosion off the coubt
of Courliind.
DOG BITES EIGHT PERSONS; ONE DIES
PITTSBUHGII. Aug. 24. Hlglit persons bitten by a supposedly mad dog on
July 12 were under i-loso observation nt the Mercy Hospital today, following the
death this morning of Mrs. l.aurn M. Summervllle, of Monongahela City. Mrs.
Summervlllo became very ill on Sunday and physicians, after hearing of the dog
bite, diagnosed her case as hydrophobia.
BitEMEN REPORTED DUE IN U. S. IN FEW DAYS
COPENHAGEN', Auff. 24. The submarine Bremen, sister ship of the Deutsch
land, will arrive In America within a. few days, Director Lohmann, of the Ocean
Company, told a German Journalist at Hremen today. The Ocean Company has
received a message from the Bremen since sho left port, he added.
U. S. TRANSPORT HANCOCK AGROUND '
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24. The commandant of the New Orleans Navy Yard
today reported to tho Navy Department that tho transport Hancock,' en route from
New Orleans to Vera Cruz, ran aground at the mouth of tho Mississippi River. She
Is In 24 feet of water. A tug has gone to her assistance.
U. S. TO FOUND FINANCIAL PROTECTORATE OVER HAITI
WASHINGTON, Aug. 24. Secretary of State Lansing and Solon Menos, Min
ister from Haiti, today (signed n protocol, under tho terms of which the United
States will establish a financial protectorate over the island. Secretary Lansing
tefused to glvo out tho details of tho protocol until It has been ratified by the
Senate.
SMALL PITTSBURGH BANK FAILS; COMMISSION MEN HIT
PITTSBURGH, Aug. 24. The Central Trust Company, a small bank patronized
chiefly by commission merchants, failed to open Its doors today. Bad loans are
given as the reason for the bank's failure. The bank has a capital of 150,000 and
deposits of 5000,000.
FERN ROCK ASKS RELIEF FROM GARBAGE GLUT
Families ih Fern Rock are calling frantically for tho city garbage collector.
AH along the cuibs the cans are filled to overflowing. In the neighborhood ot the
4900 block In Twelfth street theie Is a case of infantile paralysis, too. It seems
that the entire energies of the clean-up department are devoted to South Phlla.
delphla, where the congestion and dirt are In the majority,
BALANCE OF $11,127,368. IN CITY TREASURY
The weekly statement of tho City Treasurer shows that the amount received
from August 17 to 23, inclusive, ttas ?l, 413, 981.07 nnd the payments amounted to
1569,253.18, leaving a balance of $11,127,363.33. The Sinking- Fund (balance is
$1,460,123.58.
ZEPPELIN RAIDS EAST COAST; NQ DAMAGE
LONDON. 'Aug. 24. A Zeppelin raided the east coast early today, but Inflicted
no damage and no casualties resulted from the attack.' The War Ofllce reported that
the hostile airship crossed the coabt about midnight, remaining over English soil for
about an hour. Several incendiary and high-explosive shells were dropped, but most
of them fell in open fields, doing no damage.
SMALL BARBER SHOPS INCREASE PRICES
Prices q! shaves and haircuts are. going up In small shops all over tho city.
Everywhere barber shops are announcing that in tho future trimming the thatch
will cost 25 cents and shaving 15 cents, with no reduction for Dundrearys. The
causes of the movement include the European War, professional ethics, the
presidential campaign, the menace of the safety razor and the nigh cost' of living.
NEWS
She died In terrible ngony.
R.R. MAGNATES
FORM PLAN TO
AVERT STRIKE
Will Submit Scheme to En
tire Body of Presidents
AGAIN CONSULT WILSO
Basis of Peace Scheme
in Railroad Situation
"DRINCIPAL pcinta of tho plan to
settle the railrond dispute nro:
Railroad presidents yield to
cardinal point of eight-hour day on
10-hour pay basis.
President Wilson gives pledge that
United States Government would
"look with favor" on railroads' ap
plication for increase of freight
rates to meet ndded expense.
President promises by January 1,
1017, a Federal commission to pass
upon all collateral issues nnd that
such bonrd should be permanent as
a guarantee against futuro strike
threats.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 21. Follow
ing the formulation of the plan for set
tling the railroad dispute, three of tho
railroads executive committee at noon
today conferred with President 'Wilson,
preparatory to submitting the scheme of
compromise to a meeting of the whole
body of executives at 3 o'clock this
afternoon.
The nature of the conference with
the President has not been learned, nor
has the sentiment of the morning's
session of the executives been revealed.
It is understood, however, that some
opposition to the plan agreed upon by
the executives' committee developed.
WASHINGTON. Aug. 21. A basis for
the settlement ot the threatened nation--wide
stilke of railroad workers was reached
today by tho committee of railroad execu
tives In chargo ot negotiations for the rail
roads. The groundwork for nn ultimate peaceful
conclusion of tho crisis was developed
after conferences between tho raljroad
executives' committee. President "Wilson an4
congressional leaders.
The basis of settlement, was satisfactory
In substanco to President Wilson, and, the
White House announced that the President
expected tho final reply ot the railroad
heads to his settlement plan Jater in the
day.
The executives' committee prepared a
statement of the tentative settlement for
presentation to the general conference of
executives. This statement was submitted
at noon today to the general conference.
Only the approval of the gentral confer
ence was required to make tho suggested
basis a matter of negotiation between the
railroad heads and the President, and It
was believed that tho executives would ac
cept the verdict of their committee without
undue discussion. ,
THE AGREEMENT.
The general outline --of the agreement
provides.
That the railroad hall at onee ac
cept the principle of an elsht-libur da;r
and shall put the principle In operation
at nme In train terrier.
That the President nil nil allure th
riillruuil lieuds that by January 1, 1017,
a ulutulory I'edrral commlialon, either
the Interstate Commerce Commlidou or
un Independent commUnlon, liall take
charge of the I'ollaterat Uiue In (lie
present dispute, and hall be made
permanent for the consideration of all
future nase and conditions of tabor con
troversies on the rallrouili. '
That the President tliull aiinra the
rullrouil executives that the Federal
Government will look with favor on an
application for Increased freight rale
to meet the expenditure made necessary
by the eight-hour day plan, and that
the Interstate Commerce Commission
will take up nnd consider thU appli
cation at once, pending (he reference
of tlio collateral Issue to the earn
body or another commission.
These terms virtually meet the prlg(naj
settlement plan proposed by President Wil
son and tliey satisfy the demand of the,
four railroad brotherhoods for the Immedi
ate institution of the eight-hour day,
PnESIDENTS PP.OMISE.
The difficulties confronting the railroads
In their acceptance of the scheme worked
out hy their own committee arise from the
lack of authority In the President to rnal.-
any formal guarantee jf legislation by Con.
gress or action by the Interstate Commerci
Commission. The executive committee, how
ever, w.as Inclined to accept tho Presldefltj,
promise, believing that the Federal agencies
would listen to his advice in both matters.
While the committee expected to pav
'uiimin iiiuiimiimuuiui)
Do It Today
TF you are. In the habit pf
"picking up" your Evening
ledger at the newsstand or
from a newsboy. It will pay you.
to place an "order" Instead.
You make sure ot jour Evening
Ledger tnat way and help lh
dealer, carrier or newsboy
nho aervea you. The EvnJng
Ledger In eoaunon with all
other Philadelphia. papr Hl ,
not accept unsold copies, qttm
September Tills mearaj (atji
newspaper venders will ordtr
only the actual number, " of
copies demanded Oy custom.
Make sure, of your copy today.
Place an order fur th its li
ning Ledger U-Aily
SBSVft'TBB3'B'&SSJ,lf'l
