HAPPY ANDHEALTHY
"'Mike" Reports Company Boys to
Be In Good Spirits and Enjoy-
ing Border Life Now.
Field Day and Review Parade Relieved
the Monotony of Camp Life
Last Week.
Camp Llano Grande, August 18.
This has been a regular carnival week
for the soldiers in this camp, especially
the Third Minnesota. Instead of the
regular routine work the program got
several bad twists that sort of made
a joyous affair out of it and broke up
the monotony of camp life a whole lot.
Monday it was announced that General
O'Ryan, one of the big regular army
officers, would visit camp during the
day, so a bio. parade and review was
pulled off honor of the visiting gen
eral. It was the first time that all
the armed men in this camp had made
any attempt to get together as a whole
as up to this time a regiment had been
the biggest unit that had been on
parade or review. When all the in
fantry in camp paraded and passed in
Tf new it was a pretty fair sized army
and the men and officers got some
slight idea of what a small army looks
like. In all there must have been
10,000 infantry that took part. The
batteries and machine gun companies
did not parade as their horses and
mules have not as yet been all issued
to them. This ceremony broke up the
day's work and in the afternoon the
men were given a chance to stay in
camp.
Tuesday was a regular routine day,
but the following day was field day
for the Third Minnesota and it was
a regular holiday for the men and
officers, the first regular one we have
had since we hit Texas. Chaplain Will
Emery arranged the field day and was
master of ceremonies. The events con
sisted of racing, jumping, boxing,
wrestling and a ball game in the after
noon. In a regiment of over a thou
sand men these events naturally
brought out some real class and the
officers and men had a chance to see
some real athletes work out. Only one
man from each company was allowed
to participate in each event, but as
there are practically fourteen com
panies to a regiment this brought
forth plenty of entries for each event.
Company did not have many entries,
but where they were entered they gave
a good account of themselves. Earl
Thomas of Milaca electrified the large
crowd and surprised his friends by
taking an easy first in the main event
of the meet, the 100-yard dash. His
time was 11 seconds flat and now
lays claim to the fastest man in the
Third regiment. Bill Burrs of Brick
ton got into the 220-yard dash and got
away with fourth place in a field of
ten entries. A hastily organized relay
team represented and gave a good
account of themselves, considering the
eleventh hour organization and no
practice. The ball game in the after
noon was pulled off between the first
and second battalions and was repre
sented on the second battalion team by
two men, Smith and Doane, playing
left and right fields, respectively. The
second proved too much for the first
and shut them out 4 to 0. The second
has a clean record now, having shut
out both the first and third.
Thursday was a work day again and
in the evening went on guard for 24
hours. This came at an opportune
time as it lets the boys out of the
regular Friday hike, and they say it
is going to be a good one today, 10
or 12 miles.
Another bad gulf storm was reported
due here last night at about 10 o'clock
and it began to look as if the weather
man was going to play another one of
his ill-timed jokes on the Rum river
valley contingent, but the storm evi
dently slid off around us as we had a
fine night of it for guard duty and no
rain except a gentle little shower
early this morning. Saturday will be
wash day and inspection of camp,
rifles and equipment and Sunday will
be our day of rest. Some carnival
week, eh?
NOTES.
Lloyd Wilkes, Eldon R. Jones and
Sydney R. Jones received their honor
able discharges last Saturday under
the new ruling allowing the married
men with dependent families to go
home. Al Escherich also got his dis
charge on the same grounds, but is
still in camp. The first three pulled
out for home Monday afternoon and
Al will leave this coming Monday or
Tuesday. The other married men are
either waiting for returns on their
applications or have just submitted
them and do not expect to hear from
them for several days as there is a
whole lot of red tape connected with
the business.
Norman Hanson of Milaca, known
to the boys as "Coco," has gained con
siderable notoriety for himself and
company by proving himself to be the
best horse and mule "buster" in camp.
Most of the horses and mules shipped
here for use are wild and unbroken
and "Coco" has taken it upon himself
to break the refractory beasts in for
Uncle Sammy, and so far the long,
lanky puncher from Milaca has failed
to find a four-footed beast that could
get him out of the saddle. "Coco's"
uproarious "Let's go, mule" has be
come one of the bywords of the camp.
J. Jansa, Jr., and Walter Bemmle
man are in charge of the culinary
department now, due to the departure
of Jones and Wilkes. The new men
have already proved their worth and
the "chuck" is the best ever and the
inspecting officer said the other morn
ing that they had the cleanest kitchen
and incinerator along the line.
The new shower baths at the end of
the company streets are a big improve
ment and are well patronized by the
men.
The new Y. M. C. A. building for
the Minnesota troops was dedicated
last Saturday with proper ceremonies
and this building has proved itself a
Godsend for the men as here they have
ample facilities for spending an eve
ning as pleasantly^ and profitably as
they would their own home.
The new screened in kitchens and
mess halls are being rapidly built and
by the time this letter is published I
presume the outfit will be cooking
and eating in theirs. This will be a
much needed improvement and will
abate the fly nuisance considerably
one of the worst things that we have
had to contend with in the camp.
Lieut. Kalkman has gone to San
Benito, Texas, for a course of regular
army instructions and it may be that
"Jerry" will follow up the army life
for his profession.
Company is in good health and
spirits and practically acclimated at
this time. They insist almost to a man
that they want to stay in Texas the
rest of their lives. MIKE.
The Glendorado Picnic.
The creamery picnic at jGlendorado
last Sunday was largely attended, and
a success, although those in charge
and in attendance were somewhat dis
appointed in that tne speaker from
the state dairy and food department
and the representative of the exten
sion division of the state university
failed to appear. Hon. Harold Knut
son, republican candidate for congress
from the Sixth district, was on hand,
however, and he gave a rattling goo^l
talk, as did Mr. Hanscom of St. Cloud.
An old-fashioned basket picnic din
ner was spread at noon, and all did
justice to the viands prepared by the
farmers' wives and daughters.
Pleasing music discoursed by the
Glendorado brass band was an enjoy
able part of the day's program. The
band is a credit to Glendorado.
The single men demonstrated their
superiority over the benedicts in a
game of ball by downing them to the
tune of 5 to 2. The contest was wit
nessed with interest, and it was not
the least enjoyable feature of a pleas
ant day.
An Onamia Man Killed.
Aslund Anderson, Age 43, a laborer,
was instantly killed Saturday after
noon while walking on the Soo tracks
between Elrosa and Greenwald. The
man had been looking for work it is
claimed, and was on his way to Green
wald from Elrosa. It is stated by
relatives that he was deaf, which ac
counts for his failing to hear the en
gine whistle. The body was badly cut
up. One leg was cut off just above
the ankle and the other severed in two
places. A fractured skull was the im
mediate cause of death.
The body was taken to Albany and
the sheriff, acting county attorney and
coroner summoned. A brother was lo
cated at Onamia and the remains were
shipped there today for burial. The
man leaves a wife and three children.
St. Cloud Journal-Press, Monday.
Steinbach-Erickson.
Mr. Oscar Steinbach, son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. Steinbach of Princeton, and
Miss Anna Erickson of Mora were
united in marriage at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. C. C. Sample at Minneapolis
on Wednesday of last week. Mr. Her
man Jaenecke attended the groom and
Miss Lydia Steinbach acted as brides
maid. At the conclusion of the cere
mony the wedding party partook of a
sumptuous supper at the Leamington
hotel. The groom is well and favorably
known here, and numerous friends
wish him and his bride much joy. Mr.
and Mrs. Steinbach will reside in Min
neapolis.
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
ANOTHERJUG PEST
The Leaf-hopper and Tarnished Plant-
bug Work Havoc in Potato
Fields.
What Was Supposed to Be Blight
and Tip Burn Is Caused By
These Bugs.
Potato raisers in this vicinity have
a new insect pest, fully as destructive
as the Colorado potato bug, to contend
against. As far back as 1911, Mr.
Edward Saxon, who has been an ex
tensive grower of potatoes for years,
discovered that a little green bug in
fested and seriously injured potato
vines. His neighbors made light of his
discovery and laughingly referred to
"Saxon's bugs." But it was no laugh
ing matter with Mr. Saxon. He found
that apparently without cause potato
vines wilted and died prematurely, and
the yield of tubers was greatly re
duced. He corresponded with the De
partment of Agriculture at Washing
ton as well as with the Farm School
at St. Anthony Park, but obtained
little satisfaction until this year, when
he became so insistent that about two
weeks ago S. Marcovitch, assistant
entomologist at the experiment sta
tion, arrived at his farm to investigate,
and for ten days Mr. Saxon and Mr.
Marcovitch have been experimenting
with hopperdozers and kerosene emul
sions.
A Union representative visited Mr.
Saxon's farm in the town of Green
bush yesterday and found Mr. Mar
covitch and Mr. Saxon hard at work
devising means to fight the pests.
Mr. Saxon has 70 acres in potatoes,
60 of the Triumph variety. The vines
on one field looked as if they had
been frost-killed. Mr. Marcovitch said
to the Union man, "You can see for
yourself the havoc these bug pests
are working in Mr. Saxon's fields."
Then he said:
"The leaves of the vines and espe
cially of the Triumph variety, because
of its tenderness and comparative
small number of leaves, are being
curled, turning brown and dying. In
the vicinity of Princeton the crops are
being damaged severely. Because this
is a new pest the cause has been laid
to blight, bad weather, Paris green
injury and many otheT reasons but
the right one. Even one of our
pathologists called it tip burn at first
sight, but upon making a careful
study we find that the leaf-hopper is
the destructive agency. In addition,
the tarnished plant-bug, a well known
and extremely injurious insect, is also
present in fairly large numbers, and
should they increase at their present
rate, under favorable conditions it is
easy to see that the vines will be de
stroyed entirely. We have counted
from 350 to 500 leaf-hoppers and
about 50 tarnished plant-bugs on a
single plant.
"The leaf-hopper is a small, green
bug, about one-eighth inch long, lives
under the leaves, and jumps when
disturbed. The tarnished plant-bug
is nearly one-fourth inch long, with
brownish wings, giving it a tarnished
appearance, while the young ones are
about one-eighth of an inch long with
five spots on the back. These bugs
are very difficult to control at present,
because they possess a beak like a
mosquito and suck sap. For this rea
son Paris green or any other stomach
poison is worthless. The leaf-hoppers
suck on the small veins, causing the
leaf to curl and finally die while the
tarnished plant-bug sucks on the mid
rib or the tip of the growing shoot,
causing the leaf to curl upwards or
the shoot to wilt entirely.
"In the east this same tarnished
plant-bug stings the leaders of the
peach nursery stock and kills them, so
that the trees become bushy causing
thousands of dollars loss. One of the
best entomologists in the east has
just completed three years of study
and experimentation and as yet has
found no practical remedy. We know
that one suck of this bug is not suf
ficient to draw out all the sap, yet
the leader dies because a poison is
injected into the tree. Furthermore,
it is a well known pest of strawber
ries, causing the young berries to be
deformed. Such injury is known to
the growers as buttoning. The tar
nished plant-bug, therefore, may even
become more serious than the leaf
hopper.
"We have tried the remedies recom
mended by the State Experiment Sta
tion and the United States Department
of Agriculture, and have found them
impractical on the large scale of pro
duction in which potatoes are grown
around Princeton. Since the produc
tion of potatoes is very important to
the Princeton farmers and to the
country at large, we are making a
careful study of these pests and trying
to control them. Kerosene emulsion
as ordinarily recommended, *15 to 1,
does not kill these insects. The hop
perdozer has also been used against
similar insects, so we tried it. It con
sists of a frame to which stick fly
paper is attached. As this is drawn
through the fields the bugs fly up and
are caught in it. After perfecting
this machine far better than any
known at present, we thought we had
something to do the business, as hop
pers were caught by the thousands
on it. But upon making a count of
the number caught, and figuring 500
bugs to the plant, we concluded that
only about one per cent of the bugs
were caught. Again we proved that
the other recommendation was im
practical."
Encouraging results have, however,
been obtained. ^It was discovered that
a 15 to 1 kerosene emulsion was use
less. A 2 to 1 emulsion was used
with good effect, and much to Mr.
Marcovitch's surprise, Mr. Saxon dem
onstrated that pure kerosene would
not damage the vines. Five gallons
of kerosene to the acreone-third
strengthand two or three sprayings
in a season might, Mr. Marcovitch
thought, keep the pests in subjection,
but both he and Mr. Saxon are in
hopes that even a more efficient
remedy may be discovered.
The effective handling of these po
tato insect-pests is a matter of vital
importance to the farmers of the po
tato belt and is worthy of the best
thought of the best experts at the
State Agricultural School. It means
hundreds of thousands of dollars to
the farmers tributary to Princeton
annually.
Mr. Saxon is deserving of great
praise for the deep and intel^ent
interest he has taken in the matter,
and certainly the department made no
mistake in sending Mr. Marcovitch
here to investigate. By the way, Mr.
Marcovitch graduated as an entomolo
gist after a four years' course at Cor
nell university.
Town Board Meets.
The Princeton town board met at
the office of the Bockoven Land com
pany last Saturday vith all members
prr-^nt. Upon motion duly ,made,
seconded and passed the clerk was in
structed to advertise for bids for the
construction of a bridge over the West
Branch of the Rum river at a point
spanned by the so-called Sadley bridge.
The advertisement appears elsewhere
in this issue.
The board inspected the judicial
bridge over the Rum river southeast
of the village, and found same to be
in need of repairs.
Emil Lundgren was instructed to
supervise the work of putting in new
culverts in the Bogus Brook road near
John Dalchow's farm.
The board decided to offer no ob
structions to a county ditch draining
section 11, and terminating in Silver
lake, section 26, Princeton town.
After acting on a batch of bills the
beard adjourned.
The Ideal Location.
For long, members of the theatrical
profession have complainedand with
reasonof the custom theater owners
have of building their theaters with
imposing entrances for the public on
the street, but with the stage en
trances tucked away up in dark and
dingy by-ways. At the conclusion of
a season on the road, Ed Wynn, the
comedian, was riding through a town
in Iowa when he passed the mouth of
the dirtiest, shabbiest ally he had ever
seen. Forgotten swill barrels lined
its sides and a dead cat was ripening
in the sunshine midway of its length.
Wynn stopped, got out of the bus,
looked up the local photographer, and
caused that individual to make a pic
ture of the dismal prospect. Then
he mailed a finished copy to a gentle
man in New Yory who owns a string
of theaters over the country, with the
following suggestion writen on the
margin:
"You are overlooking a bet. What
a lovely alley to build a theater along
side of!"Saturday Evening Post.
Young Republicans to the Front.
A letter has been received at the
Union office from Mr. E. L. Thornton,
chairman Republican State Central
committee, requesting that a repub
lican county organization be effected
in the county. The publisher of the
Union has devoted about all the time
he can spare to politics his year. Won't
some republican patriot call around at
this office and we will gladly turn over
Mr. Thornton's instructions and direc
tions to him? It is meet and proper
that the younger republicans should
come to the front in Mille Lacs county
this year.
SHOOTSJERSELF
Mrs. John Kostanshek of Bogus
Brook Attempts Life With a
12-Guage Shotgun.
No Reason Given for ActPatient
Now at Northwestern Hospital
End Is Near.
Mrs. John Kostanshek of Bogus
Brook, presumably while in a despond
ent mood, took a 12-guage shotgun
Tuesday morning, placed the muzzle
against the right side of her abdomen
and discharged it. The charge lodged
in the left hip. It bored a hole about
an inch in diameter, fragmented the
pelvic bone and perforated the in
testines in dozens of places beyond
repair.
Mrs. Kostanshek was alone at the
time. Her husband is in the Colorado
coal fields, and her two childrenOtto,
aged 12, and Oscar, aged 6were at
a neighboring farm home on an
errand.
The two little boys upon their re
turn found their mother lying on the
flooi near the dopr of the little one
room home. They were told to call
a doctor, and hurried to the Reinhold
Jopp home, a mile and a half away,
where Dr. Cooney^ of Princeton was
summoned by telephone.
Dr. Cooney had the patient taken
to the Northwestern hospital. She was
living this morning, but the end is
not far removed.
Mr. and Mrs. Kostanshek first came
to this vicinity about four years ago
when they purchased 40 acres of un
improved land in southeast Bogus
Brook. Mr. Kostanshek has not
passed a great deal of time here, hav
ing labored in mines, both on the Min
nesota Cuyuna range, and in Colorado,
most of the time since. The past year
his wife and children were with him
in Colorado, and the family returned
here three weeks ago. By dint of in
dustry and frugality Mr. Kostanshek
had accumulated enough money to
make his final payment on his land
during his most recent stay here, and
he left for Colorado only last Satur
day with the avowed determination of
earning enough money to purchase a
team and other stock. He then intended
to settle down to quiet rural life with
his family. Efforts to get in touch
with Mr. Kostanshek by telegraph
have failed thus far, but cards ar
rived at the Princeton postoffice yes
terday for his wife and children, mailed
by him at Boulder, Colorado, on the
21st inst.
It is a sad case and Mrs. Kostanshek
has given no reason for her rash act.
The fact that her hand bag containing
$100 was stolen while she was in Min
neapolis three weeks ago may account
for it. The money was in her care
and she may have grieved over the
loss more than it warranted. She has
stated that her domestic relations
were pleasant, and there appears to
be no other explanation of the unfor
tunate affair. Mrs. Kostanshek is
about 32 years old.
Fatal Accident.
Geo. H. Drew, a farmer residing
near Elk River, died at the North
western hospital last night, as a result
of injuries sustained when a wagon
loaded with potatoes passed over him.
The unfortunate affair occurred yes
terday afternoon at 2 o'clock: Mr.
Drew was driving a team hitched to
a load of potatoes and one of the lines
became caught under the front end
of the pole. He walked out on the
pole to release the line, when one of
the horses lunged forward. Mr. Drew
fell to the ground, and the loaded
wagon passed over his body. The un
fortunate man was rushed to the
Northwestern hospial, but the injuries
were such as to preclude hope of re
covery. Internal hemorrhages and a
ruptured liver caused death. The re
mains were shipped to Monticello this
morning for burial.
Well-Fed Babies Resist Paralysis.
Infantile paralysis is less frequent
among babies fed upon the mother's
milk than among babies fed artificial
mixtures. This is shown by statistics
compiled by the Minnesota Public
Health Association. The reason for
this, says Dr. I. J. Murphy, executive
secretary of the association, is that
breast-fed babies have a greater re
sistance to disease, being therefore
less subject to infantile paralysis
germs as well as to all other infec
tious diseases.
While infantile paralysis may at
tack adults, most cases are found
among children 1 tp 10 years old.
Flies may carry tne infectious mate
rial of this disease, as well as of many
VOLUME XL. NO. 36
other diseases to which children are
susceptible.
If infantile paralysis, or any other
severe illness, is suspected, Doctor
Murphy says, the child should be given
the benefit of the doubt, and a physi
cian should be called as soon as pos
sible. Proper treatment in the early
stages may not only prevent a fatality,
but it is absolutely necessary to pre
vent permanent paralysis.
If the physician is not sure of the
diagnosis, suspected cases should be
handled as prescribed by the state
board of health regulations, which
provide that all other children, visi
tors, pets, insects, etc., be excluded,
and that the discharges from the nose,
throat and mouth be received in cloths
and burned. All other discharges must
be properly disinfected and the access
of flies prevented.
Mrs. Katherine A. Deans.
Mrs. Katherine A. Deans, a beloved
resident of Foreston and a cherished
pioneer of this county, answered the
Master's summons at her home in that
village last Thursday afternoon at
2:15 o'clock, after an illness of over
a year's duration. Dropsy and heart
trouble caused death. Everything
known to modern medical science was
resorted to in a futile endeavor to ef
fect a cure, and all that loving hands
could do was done to ease her de
clining days.
Funeral services were conducted
from the family residence Sunday
morning at 10 o'clock by Rev. Parish,
who paid a deserved tribute to the
character and other desirable qualities
of one who had crossed the bar in
peace. Special music was rendered
by Mesdames Norgren and Thorsen
and Messrs. Garrison and Sirene. The
floral tributes were numerous and ex
ceptionally beautiful, and attested to
the high regard in which deceased was
held. Interment was in Oak Knoll
cemetery, Princeton. A quartet made
up of Mesdames E. B. Service, Guy
Ewing and Messrs. Nathan Peterson
and Guy Ewing sang a touching selec
tion at the grave. The pallbearers
were Messrs. Chas. Vallepipe, L. E.
Morgan, John Hunter, James Hunter,
John Norgren and Roy Hall.
Deceased, whose maiden name was
Katherine A. Chisholm, was born in
Belleville, Canada, July 13, 1861. She
accompanied her parents to this coun
try when a girl, and was united in
marriage to Mr. George H. Deans on
October 28, 1878, at the old Chisholm
homestead in Milo. Mr. Deans sur
vives her as do two daughters/Misses
Eunice and Inez.
Mrs. Deans was one of those ladies
whose Christian character and kind
ness win the love of all. As a wife
and mother she left nothing to be de
sired, and her life was indeed well
lived in the complete sense of that
term. Her death marks the passing
of one who enriched the world by hav
ing lived in it.
"Still, still with Thee,
When purple morning breaketh,
When tired waketh,
And the shadows flee.
Fairer than the morning,
Lovelier than the daylight,
Dawns the sweet consciousness
I am with Thee."
Mrs. Maren Peterson.
Another esteemed resident of Or
rock, Sherburne county, joined the
great majority when Mrs. Maren
Peterson answered the final summons
at the Northwestern hospital, at the
advanced age of 81 years, 2 months
and 14 days. Bowel obstruction caused
death. Funeral services will be con
ducted tomorrow from the Orrock
Lutheran church. Mrs. Peterson was
born in Norway.
Christ Christiansen.
Christ Christiansen, a respected
pioneer of Orrock, Sherburne county,
succumbed to cancer of the liver last
Sunday. Funeral services were con
ducted Tuesday from the Orrock Lu
theran church, and were largely at
tended. Rev. Rem of Milaca officiated.
Deceased was a native of Norway, and
was born February 28, 1850.
Visit Princeton.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter O. Scow and
daughter of Long Prairie were guests
of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Peltier the
latter part of last week. Mr. Scow,
who is a brother of Mrs. Peltier, dur
ing the election of 1914 was returned
winner in probably the most interest
ing county office contest ever staged in
Minnesota. The coonty canvassing
board accredited Mr. Scow and his op
ponent each with 1914 votes. A contest
resulted and it was carried from the
district court to the state supreme
court. Mr. Scow won and is again
serving as clerk of court of Todd coun
ty, a position he has creditably filled
for years.
