THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWKN'LT-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, AUGUST 24, 191(5
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 98
NTRENCH ON SIR
BULGARS ADVANCE
AND
DM
INTEREST REMAINS CENTERED
DN NEW ALLIED OFFENSIVE
I THE SALDNIK1 FRONT
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
With no important changes in tho main war theater, interest remains
centered 'on the new allied offensive on the Saloniki front. The latest dis
patches, however, throw little light on the situation, and the allies' plans are
somewhat obscure.
London reports that the Bulgarians have advanoed alon- the Struma
valley and have entrenched themselves at various points. Berlin also re
ports further advances for them on tho right wing, where they face the
Serbians. Apparently, however, no action of first importance has yet de
veloped. Interest in the attitude of the Greeks has been heightened by dispatches
telling of the determination oF the Gi tek 'commander at Seres to resist the
Bulgarians and of volunteers being organized for his assistance by the
Venizelos leaders at Saloniki. There has been no further development in
the Rumanian situation. The last report from Berlin maintains that Ru
mania has not reached a decision.
On the western front the French apparently are marking time while
the British push against Thiepval and Guillemont. London reports a fresh
tightening of the ring around Thiepval in the capture of 200 yards of Ger
man trenches south of the town. Bitter fighting is "oing on in this sec
tion. The Germans succeeded in entering some British trenches, but, ac
cording to London, were immediately evicted.
The firce struggle around Fleury, in the Verdun sector, continues. The
French claim an appreciable advance between Fleury and Thiaumont and
th capture of 2C0 prisoners.
Conflicting claims are made by Berlin and Petrograd on the fighting on
the eastern front. Both report tho capture of positions near Jablomtza
tass, where a violent struggle has been in progress several days on the
crest of the Carpathians. Berlin also claims the sanguinary repulse of Rus
sian attempts to cross the Stokhod, and apparently desperate fighting is
, going on.
Both Berlin and London continue to make claims and counter claims in
regard to the recent fighting in the North sea. Berlin admits that the bat
tleship Westfalen was struck by a torpedo from an English submarine, but
maintains that the damage was slight. The German admiralty reiterates
that a British battleship was heavily damaged by a German submarine.
This is emphatically denied by the British admiralty.
Germans Make Heavy Assaults
L'rNlxlN. Aug. 23. Two heavy as
saults on the intuitions newly won by
the British south of Thiepval, on the
S'.mwe front, were made last nis;ht by
I tie Germans. They trained a footing
in the British trenches hut were driven
out ai:;tin.
A further advance by the British in
the region of Thiepval Is recorded in
the P.ntish official communication this
fwiniie which says that sua ynrds of
German trenches have been captured
there. The silencing of German ar
tillery at three different points also in
r corded.
The German battleship West fa ton
was hit and slightly damaged on Sat
iinlay by a British torpedo it was ad
iniMeil m a stmi-of ficia! telegram from
Berlin t.Hiuy, according to Renter's j
Mustenlam correspondent. The Went-
fit ton it is declared, will be repaired
sieiruy. j
A successful operation by Serbian :
troops in the Morichovo sector, about
nlxty miles northwest of Saloniki, is j
reported in an Exchange Telegraph
dispatch from Athens. The Serbs cap- '
tilled K.O yards of Bulgarian trenches
near Kaimakcalam.
The lilartHn troops, which ad
vanced in northeastern Greece recent
ly, seizing positions in the valley of the
Mruma river, are entrenching on this
line, according to today's official state
ment, which says:
"On the Dolran front tin the center
about two battalions of the enemy
were seen yesterday In the neighbor
hood of Dautli. Their advance tnsips
were driven In by us.
on the Struma front the enemy is
entrenching on the Venik-Ormanli
line.
"An attack on French troops hulling
Komarjun bridge was repulsed.
"Serbian forces ai-e now holding a
line in me neignoornoou in ue us-;
trovo and Pnzar." j
The new Bulgarian entrenched line I
roughly parallels the Struma. Appar-
fitly the Bulgarians have sent forces
f considerable size to occupy this na- .
tural defensive line.
The British steamer Quebra has
foundered after striking rocks west of
the big Blusket island off the coast of
Kerry". Thirty-four of the crew have
ren landed at Ventry. The captain
and two others are missing.
leaders of the llberai or Venizelist
imrty at Saloniki, are organizing vol-
unteers to aid the Greek commander
at Seres, in resisting the Bulgars, ac-
cording to a Reuter Saloniki dispatch,
The dispatch adds that the com-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Aug. 23 Kdward W.
Mo i rison. a millionaire recluse, was
namtd in proceedings hetore Federal
Judge Latidls today as the real father
t.f two girls lie recently adopted.
The accuser was Joseph Biirnstcin,
n junk dealer. His wife, he declared,
ronlessed to him on her death tied
that .Morrison was the father of tho
jiitl.
The millionaire, who Is nearly SO
veurs of age, denied liter accusation.
His reason for adopting he girls, 1k
testified, was bemuse their mothei
ha I pleaded with him, when she wis
t.iken III. to care for them. He had
known them all their liven, he said,
iind was fond of them.
Anna, the eldest girl. Is eighteen;
her sinter. Alice, is sixteen vears of
age. They hnvn made their homo
with Morrison since their adoption
about a month ago,
Morrison attended mv wife's fun
eral with me In June," Biunsleln tes
tified. "I told Htn of mv wife's
eontesslon. Moflin 'Very well,
I II fix It "P with you,' ".
The action before .ludi,c Lanilis
was a petition to appoint a receiver
for .Morrison's properties, wkhii have
l-een variously estimated In value
from 3.i"")0(in to tS.OMi.ltnO. One of
the contentions wis that Morrison
bail adopted the two girls to prevent
the city of Chliago from receiving
the estate, which, under the will uf
fiLUIRE NAMED AS FATHER
OF TWO 6IRLS HE ADOPTED
mander has called to the colors the de
mobilized troops In the district. Ac
cording to the latest report, the sol
diers of King Ferdinand are approach
ing Seres.
Press dispatches from Athens,
Tuesday, stated that Greek troops had
been fighting Bulgars in the vicinity
of Seres since Sunday morning and
that the Greek commander had sum
moned the reservists to the colors.
WILLEHAD IS CLEARED
fPrri'biiran A. P. Leased Wire
BOSTON. Auk- 23. The North Ger
man I.loyd liner Willeliad. which had
been interned here since the beginning
,,f lha wtir uif ti rnrl el..uraiica TitaiMna
tl(rtav an(j is ,x,0i,d to ,a tomorrow
mirnln? fr Ntw i,,nUon fonn.
()
WOODMEN ARE DEFEATED
fRepyblican A. P. Leased Wire
CLEVELAND. Ohio, Aug. 23 In a
battle which saw the members of the
third National Fraternal Congress of
America divided in hitter strife today,
the forces of the Woodmen of the
World, which had petitioned for re
udmisslon to the congress, were de
feated. At the close of a session which
lasted more than five hours It was an
nounced that the petition had been
rejected. 14 to 142. The Woodmen of
the World left the congress two years
ago because of disagreement with the
legislative policy of the congress.
WAR INSURANCE BRINGS PROFIT
Republican A. P. v Lea ted Wire
"WASHINGTON. Aug. 22. Since the
establishment nearly two years ago.
the bureau of war risk Insurance has
brought tie! Tirofit tn Ilia tn,OBinv
department of 2,23,SG9. Secretary
McAdoo o announced today In making
public reductions in rates on several
classes of Insurance for American
steam vessels and non-contraband car-
goes. "
o
SOCIALISTS ATTACK CANDIDATES
feoublicai A. P. Leaned WireJ
CHICAGO, Aug. 23. The socialist
party today issued the first of a series
of ten leaflets written by Allan L. Ben
son, its candidate for president in
, which he will rliweioiM (Via l..u.u i.t it,.
i national camuaien. In the first leaflet
Candidate Benson attacks the public
record of both President Wilson and
Charles K. Hughes.
his father, was to be used for educa
tional purposes If Morrison uied
(hildlt-Hs. ,
Morrison Is alleged to have given
awav to ceilain friends during the
past seven years, more than $2,ivO,0(jO.
It was brought out that John Som
mers, who said he had known Mor
rison for twenty-five years had re
ceived JKOii.mui for providing the aged
millionaire with amusement.
Deutschland Makes Trip
Homeward in Safety
(By Republican
BERLIN, Auq. 23. (By wireless
uoutscniant: arrived at the mouth of
tho Overseas News Agency.
The agency says that the Deutschland arrived on the afternoon of Aufl
ust 23 and anchored before the mouth of the river. All on board were well.
The Deutschland. German submarine built for carryinq merchandise,
arrived at Baltimore from Bremen on July 9 with a carqo of dyestuffs and
mails. Her arrival was hailed in Germany as the beginninq of a regular
submarine merchant service between the United States and Germany which
would be able to defy the British blockade. It was announced that she
would be followed shortly by the Bremen, sistership.
The Deutschland toft Baltimore on her return journey on August 1
with a cargo of rubber and metal.
Hughes Promises to Carry Out Policies Without Favor
GREATER PAYROLLS IS
9 q
WOMAN 113 YEARS OLD
REGISTERS FOR PRIMARY j
CHICAGO, Auk. 23. Among the I
women to register today for the j
Illinois stale primary was one 113 !
vears old. She Is Mrs. Harriet
I King, who answered all questions ;
I as promptly as did her grand- !
I daughter who accompanied her to
! the registration booth. Mrs. King I
came here several years ago from
North Carolina, where she had '
! Iieen a slave. I
n a
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 23. Debate In
the senate on the emergency revenue
bill today was featured by a long
speech by Senator Penrose, urging in
dustrial preparedness to safeguard the
country against commercial warfare at
the close of the Kuropean war and
vigorously attacking the pending
measure. He questioned the legality
of the proposed munitions tax and gen
eral democratic advance toward substituting-
direct taxation for the pro
tective tariff.
Senator t'nderwood, democrat, au
thor of the present tariff law, and
Senator McLean, republican, also par
ticipated in the discussion, the former
defendinng the tariff law against re
publican, attacks and the latter chare-
ing the democratic administration with
extravagance and deploring its tend
ency to resort to sources tor iciierai
taxation that should be reserved to the
states.
"This cpieaiion of industrial pre
irttredness," said Senator Penrose, "has
received definite recognition in the
pending bill in the provision relative
to dyestuffs. This concession made by
those who Rbhor imw-.!s and duties
and lean to the thought that nearly all
of the expenses of the government so
far as prwtsible should be raised by
taxes on Incomes, and other direct
taxes, seem to me to constitute a sur
render which gives up their whole case.
If dyestuffs require n protective duty
and if they are essential to our Indus
trial independence. I conclude that the
same argument can be applied ull
along the line."
Referring to the recent conference of
the nations at war regarding commer
cial plana that will operate to their
own benefit after the war. the Penn
sylvania senator said:
"In the face of these developments
already occurring nnd with the likeli
hood of still more pretentious aspects
of trade war arising in the near future,
we are called upon to pass the pending
revenue measure without any regard
whatever for the menacing situation
which will inevitably confront us as
the war In Europe draws to a close.
"We are drifting to a system of di
rect taxes at a time when nearly every
civilized nation Is going in the other
direction. There is every reason to
believe that with the close of the war,
new trade alliances nnd treaties will
be made which will make It more im
perative than ever that the l'nlted
States should get ready for industrial
preparedness."
If a munition tax Is to he imposed,
Senator Penrose declared. It should be
applied to all who sell contraband
goods to nations at war.
"Investigation discloses." he paid,
"that the munitions tax is sectional,
un-unifurm, of doubtful validity, of
questionable legality, and objection
able In many other ways.
"It might also be argued that such a
tax wofild affect our neutrality. A
neutral government docs not protect
trade In contraband. It cannot engage
In it Itself. It Is merely relieved of the
expense of suppressing It."
Senator I'nderwood spoke at length
in defense of the existing tariff law.
He approved the 'pending revenue bill
in its main features, he said, nut out
not concur In the re-ommendntion for
a tariff commission and increased
duties In dyestuffs. After reviewing
the operations of the tariff law. and
submitting a multitude of statistics,
Senator t'nderwood said that he had
"conclusively demonstrated that tariff
taxes now on the statute books do not
Jeopardize American industry, or
threaten American labor."
The revenue bill, Senator Underwood
said, was necessitated by the demands
of the wealth of the country for mili
tary preparedness.
A. P. Leased Wire)
to Sayville) The merchant submarine
the Weser on Auaust 23, according to
C01UAL
WAR IS COMING
SMS PENROSE
m
T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON". Aug. 23. In an
other effort to aid tne presidents o
tne country s railroads to find some
way in which to accept an eight-hour
day for their trainmen and avert the
threatened strike. President Wilson to
night conferred for an hour and a half
with Presidents Hale Hidden of the
Burlington, lianiel Willard of the Hal
timore & Ohio, and It. S. Lovett of the
I'nion I"acific.
Neither lute House officials nor
the presidents would discuss the con
feretice. It was said on high author
ity, however, that the three executives
went to the White House to receive an
answer to the suggestion they made
to Mr. ilson last night that he give
them more specific information as to
how the railroads may gel the addi
tional revenue necessary to take care
of the greater payrolls that will come
with the eight-hour day
Earlier in the day President Wilton
discussed the railroad situation at
length with Senator Newlands and
Representative Adamson. chairmen of
tho two committees of congress in
charge of legislation affecting Inter
state commerce. Their visit was the
consequence of that of the railroad
men last night. The two chairmen are
said to have agreed that the presi
dent's position in t he present situation
is right, and to have said that every
effort could be expected tn congress
to put through any legislation which
might help solve the present d.ffi-
culty and provide for the future.
i line of the means for recoupment
i suggested by the president to the rali
' roads in his public outline of his posi-
Ition was through an increase in
freight rates. It was pointed out to-
: night tht the president cannot di
rectlv ask the interstate commerce
i commission to grant increases to the
railroads. Congress, however, might
puss a resolution directing the com
mission, in view of what it considers
all unprecedented situation, to grant
higher rates.
Congress ulo might pass a resolu
tion directing the commission to in
vestigate all matters involved in the
controversy and the whole subject ot
the relations of tailroads and their
employes. One result expected from
today's conference is an eariy effort
to pass the bill introduced several
months ago to increase the commis
sion's int lr.liersiiip from seven to nine.
It became evident tonight th.it most
of the railroad executives hae come
to believe that there can be only one
way of preventing; a strike, and that
is by accepting the eight-ohur day
plan. The chief effort In their own
conference today was to find some
scheme by which an eight-hour day
may be put In operation on all rail
roads at the least added expense.
Many suggestions along this line
had been made by the president, hut
no one or tnem has proved reastnie
when submitted to the acid test of
operating officials.
At the conclusion of their confer
ence tonight with the presidents and
managers. Hale Holden. president or
the Burlingion. and a member of the
committee of eight, gave out the fol-
lofintr statement:
"The railroad executives who have
met at the request of President Wil
son are proceeding as rapidly as
practicable with their work. It must
be understood, however, the problem
with which these men are wrestling
Is the most important and .gigantic
ever presented to any body of men In
the industrial history of the country.
"They cannot, therefore, consistent
ly with their duty to their security
holders, their employes, or the pub
lic, reach a final conclusion regard
ing what action they should take
without much discussion, study and
thought The deliberation, participat
ed in by practically 1"0 men sudden
ly' celled together from all parts ot
the I'nited States, require time.
"If our deliberations seem to pro
ceed slowly. It- Is due to the facts
(Continued on Pago Two,
Parliament Is
Extended for
Seven Months
republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Aug. 23. Both houses of
parliament adjourned today until Oc.
tober 10, after adopting a bill extend
Ing the present parliament another
neven months.
Not since, the outbreak of the war
has parliament adjourned on a situation
such as the present and which was de
scribed by David Lloyd George, min
ister of war. and other ministers in de
bates, as giving so little cause for anx
iety and so hopeful an outlook for the
future. The debates reflected a feeling
of confidence, although expressing re
allzation that heavy tasks are ahead
and that there is no prospect for hos
tilities coming to a speedy end.
It is the general belief that before
parliament re-assembleR a further im
portant stage of the entente allied of
Tensive will have been developed in
the near east, which may have great
influence on the whole field of opera
tions.
T
PROBLEM
CATHOLICS STRONGLY
CRITICIZE WILSON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire tiating facts, as such utterances com
NKW YORK, Aug. 23. President ing from such high sources are calcu-
Wilson was criticised tonight in a res-
olution passed at the closing session
here of the German Jioman Catholic American people and imperil the con
Central Verein for having "preferred summation of a program of social effi
chargeB" in his message to congress ciency in our country."
"against part of our citizenship, who !
theretolore enjoyed the proud distlnc- I
non or unquestioned loyally ana patn- i
otism. Action on tne resolution was
taken only after there had been aj
neaieu uenate on me question or ine
propriety of a religious organization
entering into political iieius. :
The resolution, presented by a com-
mittee headd by Josph Matt, fit St. .
Paul. Minn., was as follows: I
"Wilhout precedent in the history of
our country, we find the president of
uie Linieu niaira puuuciy in ins oiii- .ew ioik, presiaeni; Michael A. Gir
cial message preferring charges ten. New York, vice president: William
against a part of our citizenship who
ineretoiore enjoyeu tne prouu aisunc- ueni; August spring, Milwaukee, re
tion of unquestioned loyalty and patri- j cording secretary; John Q. Jueneniann.
otism. St. Paul, financial secretary, and F. w!
"We regret thiB utterance and de- I Immekus. Pittsburg, treasurer,
plore its effects, especially In view of It was announced that next year's
its general character, without substan- convention will be held in St. Louis.
IE SUSPECTS
Republican A. P. Leaned Wire
CHIHCAHCA CITY. Aug. 23 Nine
of the men suspected of connection
with a Legalists plot were acquitted
by a court martial today after an ex
haustive Inquiry. They had been ar
rested In Juarez and sent to Chihua
hua for trial because of their relation
with Mariano Tames, the civilian vol
unteer leader at Juarez, who recently
started off to join Villa. Their defense
was that they had been misled by
Tames into believing they were going
on a picnic party am? they Tiad not
actually Joined the expedition.
The written declaration of Jose Inez
Salazar, the former Orozco general,
and the twenty-two others held with
him as suspects, were turned over to
General Trevino today for review.
Proof against them is said to tie weak,
as the incriminating documents taken
from them consist mainly of newspaiT
clippings relative to the doings of the
Legalistas and old photos of Orozco
and Villa officers.
Among the suspects is Angel Ver
gara. who is also accused of havins;
tried to start a Mexican revolution at
San Diego, Tex., to reclaim for Mexico
the territory lost in the Mexican war.
Another suspect of Importance is Luis
Bazet, a former Villista colonel am
nestied last year.
Concurrently with reports of Villa's
death came a messa- rrom Santa Ros
alia today saying that the bandit lead
er made a forced march out of Pur
ango, crossing the railway from Jim-
Inez to Parral last Saturday night, en
camping at Las Escobas, en route for
anta Gertrudis in the Naica district.
The bnnd is reported to consist of
about 4H0 men and to be in poor condi
tion as to equipment and supplies.
The dispatch said that the bandit
chieftain, traveling incognito, is in hid
ing with a few of his men in the hum
near Naica. Durango.
(Continued on Page Five)
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wiiej
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23 Speaking
tours for many senators and repre
sentatives In the republican campaign
In doubtful states were announced to
day by Representative Slempf. acting
chetf of the speakers bureau of the. re
publican congressional committee.
They run from the middle of Septem
ber to the first of November.
Senator Borah, opening the campaign
in New Jersey, September 14, begins a
tour covering 23 states. Senator Hard
ing will speak in 18 states. Senator
Cummins in 14 and Senators Uronna
and Kenyon in eight states each. Sen- t
ator Wadsworth will campaign two .
weeks in 10 states. Senators Sterling,;
X... ....I- tt-lr.. .! T..An n.lll I
illii in auu vriB ohu juiiro win oiivraiv
in six states. Senator Curtis in four,
and Senator Sherman will make a two
weeks' tour of three states. Other
senators, including Senators Lodge,
Fall and I'age, while conducting cam
paigns in their own states, will speak
at odd times and pluccs in adjoining
states.
Republican representatives will make
tours ranging from one to five weeks
under the plans of the congressional
committee. Representative Miller,
Minnesota, will speak five weeks
through the west and southwest. Fif
teen states will hear Representative
Fordney, of Michigan. Representative
Britten, Illinois, will speak In Montana
and other western states; Representa
tive Campbell, Kansas, will go as fur
west as Utah.
ARE ACODITTEB
DF PLQT CHARGE
CDVER M T T T 5
UNSOLVED
lated to foster unfounded suspicion and
mistrust of a large element of our
Alphonse G. Koelble, president of the
I mted German Societies of America.
in a speecn urging the passage of the
resolution, declared:
"We have been accuses of being false
10 tne nag, tne nag for which we bled
and died. Although -I play as safe as
anyone, i am in favor of turning
against this infamous attack on our
character."
Officers elected today for the ensu-
ing year by the German Roman Cath-
ollc Central Verein were: Joseph Frey,
Burgess, New York, second vice presi-
IN SEPTEMBER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
S ASH I NGTON Aug. 23. There
Mere two developments today In the
Mexican situation. Secretary, Lansing
and I'.'liseo Arredondti, Mexican ambassador-designate,
tentatively- agreed
that the joint commission to discuss
border problems should meet at some
place on the New Knglnnd coast dur
in the first week in September.
Briga.'ier General Pershing transmit
ted a report saying the general opin
ion was mat villas prestige is gone
and that he can never ugain become
a serious factor in Mexican affairs."
Supi orting as it does General Fun-
ston's recent recommendation for the
withdrawal f the expeditionary force
In Mexico, it is believed General Per
shing's renort makes it. certain that
the American commissioners will
agree promptly to the suggestirrii of
their Mexican conferees for tire arly
recall i t the troops.
Mr. Arredonco culled at the diplo
matic to receive formal notifica
tion that the American commis
sioners had been selected and were
ready to meet the Mexican mmbers
as soon as th time and place could
be arranged. Both the embassy and
tne department were :n communica
Hon with Mexico City tonight in re
gard to the fixing of a day for begin
ning the sessions.
General Pershing's dispatch.' sent
from the expeditionary headquarters
at Colonia Unburn, follows:
"Mv lapt report regarding Vi'.la's
attack on Parral is now reported in
correct. Villa had only a small fol
lowing. He avoided Parrrtl nd places
occupied hv Carrar.zn troops. He was
making his way south into Durango
probably now hiding in the moun
tains
"Until recently, Villa has been hid
ing since being drawn to mountains
(Continued on Page Two)
T
Governor Capper, of Kansas, will
speak in neighboring states, and "Gov
ernors Whitman, of New ' York, and
niuinrausii, oi eniinj i . "
C01ISSITO
MEET SOMETIME
on the list of 150 speakers available ! i , ,,' X. "J
for the congressional campaign itiner-1 national legislation or what cor
aries. - (Continued on Page Two)
' ; 1 X i
Hypothetical Navy Loses
First Bout In War Game
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23. The navy
department was taxing its resources
tonight to fill up the first hypothetical
gap in the country's defense which has
developed in the naval war game in
progress off the Atlantic coast.
Theoretically a mob of uniformed
men today overpowered the naval
guard at the piers at Sewall Point, on
Hampton Roads, destroyed great stores
of coal and supplies collected there for
possible use of the "blue" defending
fleet, and burned the piers.
To add to the realism of the game,
Rear Admiral Benson, chief of opera
tions, formally communicated the
hypothetical disaster at Sewall Point
to I'aymuster General McOowan,
whose duty it would be in war to cope
" ATTACKS
1ST T 1
MEXICAN PLANS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RENO, Nevada. Aug.. 23. Charles .
Evans Hughes, in two speeches here
late todav and tonight again attack
ed the administration for 4ts Mexi
can policy, repeated his conviction
that a protective tariff was essential
to a continuance of prosperity, and
reiterated his declaration for a fed
eral liability law to cover accidents
to persons in industries engaged in
interstate commerce.
Mr. Hughes also declared that if
he were elected he would endeavor to
carry out his policies without favor
to any one.
"No one can hold executive office
properly who Is not ready to be de
feated," he said. "It is a very neces
sary! thing at all times to take your
political life in your hands and to be
willing' to do as you think you ought
to do, regardless of the political con
sequences." Speaking of improving conditions of
labor. Mr. Hughes said:
I do not consider this a mere senti
mental procedure. That is bound up
with our prosirerity. We cannot
have a great United States unless in
the main it is a contented country
filled with men working, peaceable
nd sharing fairly in the fruits of
their labor, protected by safety ap
pliances having sanitary conditions
of labor, having reasonable hours
and just compensation.
"Contented America will be suc
cessful America: discontented Amer
ica will be unsuccessful America.
( am glad to observe that in these
days there is a disposition on the
part of many of our most import
ant employers of labor to realize the
human demands, the necessary de
mands, of those engaged In produc
tive work. I never like to think
of that sort of thing as a complac
nt recognition as some things hand
ed down from above. I like to think
of manager and man, of those in
charge and of those at work of
varied related activity, as sharers in '
a common undertaking realizing each'
the importance of the other's work
and all working together to produce
that which is essential to the pros
perity! and nappines or all. We have
got to have that sort of a spirit tn
America if we are to realize the
greatness of this country in the com
ing years.
Mr. Hughes referred to his record.
with reference to labor legislation
while he was governoi of New York
and read again an editorial from
the official organ of organized la
bor," printed in 1910, commending
his stand.
We have in the federal field a
very important sphere of action, un
der the constitution of the I'nited
States, the power to regulate inter
state commerce. . This power was
given in broad terms, happly without
attempt to definition. The power
has lieen exercised very freely.
I like to speak of the opportuni
ties that still exist for improvement
in these difficulties, for example: the
federal employes liability act was
an advance,, hut It still leaves to the
hazard of trial by jury and to the
proof of negligence, a great host of
caEes where injuries have been
sustained in a hazardous employ
ment. "I like to think that in the future
we shall have not simply what the
present hill in congress provides, a
provision for compensation in con
nection with employment by the gov
ernment, hut a fair and proper
scheme of compensation for employes"
engaged in hazardous occupations in
connection with interstate commerce,
and therefore subject to the regulat
ing power of congress.
"We need as much uniformity as
possible. We need to have in the
use of our federal powers a wise
oversight, to the end that , we can
gather up what would otherwise bo
local and varied and perhaps clash
ing and inconvenient, to have It
sathered up ir. a uniform system bv
the wise end constitutional use of
federal power. I thoroughly believe
in that; and l desire to see that
power prudently exercised for the
benefit of human living and the
working people of this country."
Mr. Hughes also reiterated his
declaration that after the war ends
a world court should be established
to settle controversies among the na
tions. " hat we need to preserve the
...- . " ho u.l ! 1-
with the sltuatioft there. The pay
master general immediately set his
forces to work to locate new stores of
coal and supplies and to find means
for sending them to some point on the
Roads at the earliest possible moment.
While naval forces ashore - were
dealing with this angle of the game.
Rear Admiral Helm still was sweeping
the seas with his Scouts in a south
easterly direction from Narragansett,
the base from which he sailed yester
day morning, in an effort to repel Ad
miral Mayo's "red" fleet. Presumably
the "blue" scouts were within 300
miles of the enemy's last known posi
tion at daylight, but no report that
"red" battle craft had been sighted,
reached the department up to a lata
hour.
