f
iron County Roister
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
SUBSCRIPTION !
One Year, I1.50. Six Monthi, o.7J.
KATES OF ADVERTISING
FurnUhed on Application. Speqial n
ducements to Home Patron. .. .
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
Serve your friend a glass of Bevo
then ask him what it is. He
will make a guess, but he will
be wrong. Anyway he'll tell
you it' "fine."
Bcoo is a non-intoxicating,
foamy, cereal beverage, tasting
like no other soft drink you
ever drank you'll like it.
Pure wholesome nutritive.
- Bern is served everywhere, 10
cents a bottle at inns, res- ,.
Anheuser-Busch,
A. RIE' KE
Dittributors
fJ;J;Je tJ??H
... ... ,
jii Care will be taken to acceptably serve the public, and jii
S . a snare pi your patronage is respectiuiiy solicited, jjj
?I? In the Roehrv Rdfr.. East of Courthouse T-.rvw ti?
i . JJPHONE -
Attention! Patrons and Students of Iron
ton Public Schools. ,
All students of the 9th, 10th, 11th
End 12th grades will please report to
the Public School BuUdiqg on Friday
morning, September 1st, between the
' hours of 8 A. M. to 12 M., for the pur
pose of arranging your schedule ot
classes for the school year of 1916-17.
Because of a few minor changes in "the
course of study, all students are re
quested to not purchase your, text
books until after the opening of
school. '
Patrons, whohave children entering
school this yoarjor the first time,
see that tnWtVul .inter 'oS" the
Degiifning of tht School year. If your
child is under six years of age and
will be six1 years old before January
1st, 1917, and it is your intention to
send him to school the coming school
year, please send him to school at the
opening of the school year.
All students of the High School De
partment please remember that if you
tail to arrange your schedule of classes
on Friday forenoon, September 1st, I
will be too busy to assist you very
much in this matter on Monday, Sep
tember 4th, the opening day of school.
May we all work together with the
one idea In view, of making this year
one of the best school years in the
history of the Ironton Public Schools.
t RAYMOND Suoop, Sup't.
Congressional Committee Meeting.
At a meeting of the Democratic
Congressional Committee of the 13th
district held at De Soto, Tuesday after
noon, Geo. W. Stivers of Greenville
and ParkhurBt Sleeth of Flat River
. -....-n alantari a a mam horn r.t t.Vl A 1 )fim O-
WCIO uu .mi... ..... w w . J
" cratic State Committee representing
the 13th district. The officers ot tne
committee chosen were: Chairman,
Dr. J. H. Parker, Jeff rson county;
Secretary, Wm. Huck.Ste, Genevieve
county; Treasurer, Geo. T. Lee, Car
ter county.
Resolutions were adopted endorsing
the state and national administrationc
and the excellent congressional rec
ord made by Congressman Walter L.
Hensley.i A high tribute was paid to
Frederick D. Gardner, the Democratic
nominee for Governor. A resolution
was also adopted endorsing Ben H.
Marbury of Farmlngton fop appoint
ment by Governor Major to the va
cancy on the St. Louis Court of Ap-
Jeals caused by the resignation of
udge Norton!. -
Plans were perfected for an active
campaign to be waged for the re
election of Congressman Hensley. An
exooutive committee composed of J.
- II. Parker, Wm. Uuck. Geo. T. Lee,
Geo. W. Stivers and Parkhurst Sleeth
- was appointed to oonfer with Con
gressman Hensley regarding the
BDeakine dates and places for Wm. J.
Bryan, Champ Clark, Senator J. Harn
Lewis and other orators of national
repute who will be in the district dur
ing the campaign, r
Perry oounty was the only county
of the district not represented at the
meeting, - -'-''-; .:
. Greatest Assembly Yet. . ;
1 IPoplsfBluO, Citizen-Democrat.)
The Baptist Assembly" at Arcadia
this year is eclipsing in Importance
all former showings. The attendance
breaks former records and the lnter-
est surpasses the indications of the
past. The program is excellent and
, the work is well systematized.
The Rev. Dr. Geo. McDsniel, pas
tor of the iirst Baptist Churoh at
. Richmond, Va., Is the pastor of the
Assembly.. He Us very able and his
sermons are being greatly enjoyed.
He is of the new type ot orthodox
preachers, laying great stress on the
cardinal principles of Christianity and
less on the Pharisaical notions and
the ordinances of the church to-day.
He preaches just what the world Is
, expecting from the church and
Christendom, -s-
Hon. W. W. Martin of Doniphan,
the president, and the Rev. Paul W.
"Weber, the recording secretary, and
the Rev. J. O. Wlllett of West Pluins,
but one time pastor of the First Bap
. ,tiwt Churoh here nnd another time
sosretury of the Y. M. C. A., manager
; '
1
F. P. AKE, Publisher, OUR GOD, OUR COUNTRY AMD TRUTH. TERMS-.. 50 -Yer la Advance.
VOLUME I
Society
taurants, groceries, department
tnd drugstores, picnic grounds,
baseball parks, soda fountains,
dining cars; steamships 'and
other places where refresh
ing beverages are sold.
Guard against substitutes.
Have the bottle opened in front
of you, first seeing that the seal
is unbroken and the crown top
bears the Fox.
St. Louis
&SON '
IRONTON, MO.
if il tlHI ? i .? ii tit ffi tf? ti?
VALLEY
ft
Pt tPFKBt
EDWARD BETHEL
PROPRIETOR
r rcBii ana csaitea meais, rouicry, .
Fish, Oysters in Season.i Fruits W
and Vegetables of All Kinds. . "Ji
- : ' ' '. in
UlltUU if AW.
of the" business office of the Assembly,
assisted by his son, Max, are the
active-epirits in the handling of the
big project. v - .
There is a move on foot now 'to
make the Arcadia Heights the meet
in? place for many Baptist events
holding it open in all about months in
the summer. Among other things a
preachers' institute is projected.
In Memoriam.
In loving remembrance of a dear
mother, wife, daughter And sister,
who departed this lite August 21, lUlo.
A sad year has passod away,
, A voice is sweet ana sn
A place is vacant in our home
That never can be filled.
Arthur Bond and Family.
J. L. McClurg and Family.
1
Doubly Proven.
Ironton Readers Can No Longer Doubt
the Evidence.
This grateful citizen testified long
ago,
Told of quick relief of undoubted
Denenc.
The facts are now confirmed.
Such testimony is complete tne
evidence conclusive.
. It forms donvincinsr proof of merit
J, P. Zolman, justice of the peace,
Division St., Farmington, Mo., says:
"For pbout a year I was annoyed con
siderably by too frequent passages of
the kidney secretions, particularly
during the night. Often when stoop
ing over or after a slight exertion,
I could feel my back getting weak. I
finally UBed Doan's Kidney Pills and
since then, I have felt no Bign ,of ,the
trouble."
Over five years later, Justice Zol
man said: "T have had no occasion
to use any kidney medicine since I
took Doan's Kidney Fills." -
Price 50c, at all dealers. Don't
simply auk for a kidney- remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Justice Zolman has twice publicly
recommended. Foster-Milburn Co.,
Props., Buffalo, "N.Y.-Adv.
dbtthe flora
-my stored-
say to the man:
4 uuiuc yji
please"
because r
' it's good.
Its taste
just fits
your
taster
HENRY SEITZ, Distributor, MIddlcbrook, Mo,
GRapeVshaS
1 l
mm
'KM
TUWMiigniMu 1
y p i
IRONTON. MO.,
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in rstcation, June 37, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. Pv Burnham, collector of
the revenue ol Iron county, Missouri,
aeainst
John E. Love, James E. Reese and D. B.
Heedle, and Francis H. AlcK.ee, 11 liv
ing 1 or the unknown consort, heirs and
devisees of Francis M. McKee, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes )
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B
P. Burnham, collector of the revenue of
Iron county, Missouri, and files his petition
and affidavit, setting forth among otner
things, that the defendant, ,
Francis M. McKee,
is a non-resident ot tne state 01 Missouri,
and that be cannot be served with sunt'
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Francis M. McKee,
has not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether he
be living or deid; that if he be dead,
his heirs, or if he died leaving a will,
his devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition : that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff ; that the said .
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B.
Beedle and Francis M. McKee,
werethe record owners ol the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned Dy
said
John E, Love, ' James E. Reese, D. B,
Bee'dle and Francis M. McKee,
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Francis M. McKee,
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Francis M. Mckee, -from
whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court , of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1912, 1913, and i9i4,
to wit: ... . ..
The west one-half of the northeas
quarter and the west one-half of the south
east quaiter of section 2r, township 31,
north, of range 3 east, 1O0 acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of
a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of twenty-three
and 55-100 dollars, is filed with said
uetition as provided by law.")
And unless they be and appear at the
next term ot said court to be holdeh for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court ((Jijise in said county on tne fourth
Monday in October next, i9l6,andon or be
fore the third day thereof (if the term shall
so Ion? continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petitton, the same
will be taken as confessed, judgment
rendered in accordance with the prayer of
said petition, and said real estate, or. so
much thereof as - may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon,
It is further ordered that a copy hereof
be published according to law in the Iron
county Register, a weekly newspaper pub
lished in said county of Iron and state of
Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Cierk.
A true copy from the record :
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day oi June,
1916. '
JESSE M.' HAWKINS, Clerk
' Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication. .
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 29, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use ot a. v. tsurnnam,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missouri,
against
W. H. Shelby, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
W. H. Shelby, if he be dead, defend
ants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
- Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham. collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
netition and affidavit,, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant,
W. ri. sneiDy,
is a non-resident of the state of Mis.
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
W. H. Shelby,
has not been heard of "for many years:
that plaintiff is not informed whether
ne De living ordeaa; mat 11 ne do
dead, his heirs, or if he died leaving
a will, his devisees, are interested in
the subject matter of this petition; that
the names of Such heirs or devisees, or
both, cannot be inserted herein because
they are unknown to plaintiff; that the
said - -
W. H. Shelby,
was the record owner of the land
described herein, "but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
tne nature of the interest ana estate in
said land owned by said ,
W. H. Shelby,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describe the the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said , ' ,
-. W. H. Shelby.
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate ot tne said
W. H. Shelby,
from whom their interest in the prop
erty herein described is derived. It is
therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
circuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said doiendant that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the' circuit court of said county the
object and general nature of which is
10 eniorce uie lien 01 ine 01
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said dofendant for back
taxes for the vear 1914, to wits
Lota 1 nnrl 5 of the southwest Quar
ter of section 30. township 84, north, of
range 2 cast. 171. D. acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri
(An itemized statemont in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes. Interest aud costs now dun on
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of five and 87-iOO dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in October next,
19i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so long con.
tinue; and, if not, then before the end
of the term), aAd plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri. . .
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
SEAL "Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
1UI6.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
. Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 27, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
William H. Wolff and Wilhelm Behren, if
living; or the unknown consort, heir and
devisees of Wilhelm Behren, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
1 Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, and files his petition and
affidavit, setting forth among other things,
that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that be cannot be served with sum
mons in said stale.
Plaintiff states that the defendant, '
Wilhelm Behren,
has not been heard of for .many years
that plaintiff is not informed whether he be
living or dead; that if he be dead, his
heirs, or if he died leaving a will, their
devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition; that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff; that the said
Wilhelm Behren and William It, Wolff,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff, has no information
except as herein stated of the nature' of the
interest and estate in said land owned by
said ..."
Wilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff,
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Wilhelm Behren,
his said he,;)i and devisees have, by de
scent or ,avise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Wilhem Behren, '
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the years 19I3 and 1914, to wit:
Lots one, two, seven and eight in block
32 in the town of Pilot Knob, Missouri, as
the same appear on the plat of said town
of Pilot Knob, Mo., on ffle in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds for Iron county,
Mo., said real estate being in Iron county,
Missouri,
(An itemized statement in the nature of a
tax bill showing the amount of taxes, inter
est and costs now due on said real estate for
the years aforesaid, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of fourteen and 15-100
dollars, is filed with said petition as pro
vided bylaw.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, 1916, and on or
before the third day thereqf (if the term
shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance . with the
prayer of said petition, and said real estate,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be
published according to law in the Iron
County Register, a weekly newspaper
published m said county of Iron, and state
of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
1916,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 29, 9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use 01 a. v.. uurnnam,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
against
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Sara Frank Taylor if he be dead,
defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Sam Frank Taylor, if living; or the
unknown consort, heirs and devisees of
Sam Frank Taylor, if he be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons In said state; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir.
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against thorn in
the circuit court of said county, the
object and goneral nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis.
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said dofendants for back
taxes for the years 1911, (912, 19 1 3 and
1911, to wit: -
Lot 19 in block 4 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Iloignta" as per
plat thereof on Gle in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron County,
Mo., subject to mineral reservation
made by Big Muddy Coal ft Iton Com
pany in Book 52, page 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being
in Iron County, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of twenty and 70-iOU dollars, is filed with
said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
the next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo-
Dernext, laib, ana on or Deiore tne
third day thereof (if the term shall so
long continue; and, if not, then bofore
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same Will be taken as confessed,
judgment rendered in accordance with
the prayer of said petition, and said
real estate, or so much thereof as may
be necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law
in the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS? Clerk.
A true cony from the recoord :
seal Witness my ' hand and of
ficial seal, this 29th day of
June-19 1 6.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 26, i9i6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. F. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of iron coun,
ty, Missouri,
against
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell, if living; or
the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of J. R. Edmonds, Margaret
Campbell and William Campbell, if
they be dead; and C. E. Bolch and
Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missouri, Trustee, defendants.
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell and
William Campbell,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendants,
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
have not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they be living or dead; that if they
be dead, their heirs, or if they died
leavirtg-iv will, their dsvi..y-s. are in
terested in the subject matter of this
petition ; that the names of such heirs
or devisees, or both, cannot be inserted
herein because they are unknown to
plaintiff : that the said
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell and C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron county,
Missouri, Trustee,
were the record owners of the land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
the nature of the interest and estate in
said land owned by said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell, C. E. Bolch
and Wm. Blue, Sheriff of Iron County,
Missonri, Trustee,
and therefore is unable to .particularly
describe the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said
J. R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
their said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
J, R. Edmonds, Margaret Campbell
and William Campbell,
from whom their interest in the pro
perty herein described is derived. It
is therefore, ordered by the clerk of the
oircuit court of Iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifvinsr said defendants that an
action has been commenced against
them in the circuit court of said county,
the object and general nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to the said defendants for
bacic taxes ior tne year 10 wit:
The south one-half of the north one
half of the northwest quarter and the
bouth one-half of the north one-half of
tho northeast quarter of section 28,
township 3 1, north, of range 4 east, 80
acres said real estate being in Iron
county. Missouri.
(An itemized statement in tne nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 33-100 dollars, is
filed with said petition as provided by
law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to tie holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo-
oer next. lain, ana on or oeiore tne
third day thereof (if the term shall so
lonsr continue: ana, 11 not, tnen Deiore
the end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, iuag.
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
Interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said oounty of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. pAWKlNS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record,
seal Witness my hand and official
, , seal, this 26th day of June,
' 191B.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication. ,
In the cirenlt court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 29. i9i.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of tho revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
against v
Julius II. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
-fcs f,A A Pi " i ' I
NUMBER 12.
Julius H. York, if he be dead, de
fendants, (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, ocllector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files bis
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things that the defendant,
Julius 11. York, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
Julius H. York, if he be dead,"
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with Bummons in said state: it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1912, 1913 and 19i4,
to wit:
All of lot 3 in block 2 of J. H. York's
Subdivision "Arcadia Heights" except
a piece out of the northwest corner of
said lot described: beginning at the
northwest corner of lot 3, thence with
the west line of same south 50 feet,
thence east parallel with the north line
of said lot 150 feet, thence northeast 45
degrees to north line of said lot, thence
west with said line to place of begin
ning: All subject to mineral reserva
tion made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron
Company in book 52 page I18, Iron
County Land Records 6aid real estate
being in Iron county, Missouri.
" (An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
the said real estate for the years afore
said, amounting in the aggregate to
sum of fifteen and 30-100 dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in. said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next. 1916. and on or before the
third day thereof (if the terra shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
the ena ot tne term), ana pieaa, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and. said real
estate, or so much thejenf as may be
necessary to satisfy jdgmenV in
terest and cost-vl;?em,S render a special
ben facias to De istuea tnereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news,
paper published in saidcou nty of Iron,
ana state 01 miKsoun.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk
A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
laio.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo,
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron County, 'Mis
souri, in vacation. Tune 29, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of B. P. Burnham, collector
of the revenue of Iron county, Missonri
against
Florence Dodge, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees ot
1 lorence Dodge, 11 she be dead, de
fendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the defendant,
Florence Dodse, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devieses of
Florence Dodsre. if she be dead.
are non-residents of the state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with
summons in said state:
It is therefore, ordered by the clerk of
the circuit court of iron county, Missouri,
in vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against them in the
circuit court of said county, the object
and eeneral nature of which is to enforce
the lien of the state of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to the
said defendants for back taxes for the
vears iqit. iqi2. iqix and igf4, to wit:
Lot I4 in block 6 of J. H. York's sub
division "Arcadia Heights" as per plat
thereof on file m the omce 01 the Ke
corder of Deeds for Iron County, Mis
souri: subiect to mineral reservation
made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron Com
pany in book 52, page 118, Iron county
Land Records said real estate being in
Iron countv. Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting
in the aggregate to the sum ot live ana
80-100 dollars, is tiled with said petition
as provided Dv law. ) -
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of ?aid court to be holden tor
the county of Iron, and state of Missourt,
at the court house in said county on the
fourth Monday in October next, 1916,
and on or before the third day thereof
Cff the term shall so long continue: and.
if not. then before the end of the term)
and plead, answer or demur to said
plaintiff's petition, the same will be taken
as confessed, ludgment rendered in ac
cordance with the Draver of said petition
and said real estate, or so much thereof
as mav be necessary to satisfy said judg
ment, interest and costs, De sold under
a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron Countv Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
6ealJ Witness my hand and official
seal, this 19th day of June,
1916. !
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk .
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo. ,
Order of Publication.
In tbe Circuit Court of Iron County, Missonri, In
raoetlon, June 20 1916.
The State of Missouri, at the relation and to the
ne of B. P. Hnrnham, oolleotorof the revenue
of Iron oounty, Missouri, t
against
Alexander H. Huesgen and Pavld Gorman, if
living or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devlseesof Alexander H. llnesgen and David
Gorman, if they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien fur Taxes.)
Now at this day comas the plaintiff, B. F. Bnrn
hfttn, oolloctor of the revenue of iron county Mis
souri, and (ilea his petition and affidavit, settiug
forth among other things, that the defendants,
Alexander H. Huengen ani David Gorman,
are noQ-reslilnuts of the state of M issourl, and that
tbey cannot be served with summons m said state.
I'taintilT stat" that thedi-ffttidants,
Alexander H. Huesgen and David Gorman,
havanot been heard of for many yeamt that
plaintiff is nut informed whether they be living or
Ueadi that it they be dead, their heirs, or it they
JOB-WORK 1
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satitfacti on; prices
reasonable.
sa-TRY US.
did l&ftvinjr ft will, ttoir deviMM, ar latorertfld
in tb Bobfft nutter of tfcift petition: tht tba
names of n?a htirs or deriM. or both, cnnot
be inserted herein beonuse tbev ft re unknown to
piaintUf ; tfest the tsid.
Alexander a. nueeffen ami IHrid. Gorman,
were tile record owoera of the land described
herein, bnt plaintiff has no information except aa
herein stated of the nature of the interest and
estatat In said land owned by 'said
Alexander H. Huescen and David Gorman,
and therefore is unable to particularly describe
the same, and that in the event of the death of
the said
Alexander H. Hue?een and David Gorman.
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the said interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H, Hnesgen and David Gorman,
from whom their interest in the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
he clerk of the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, tnat puoncation do msae
notifying said defendants that aa action has been
commenced against them in the circuit court of
said county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri, on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants for back taxes for the year
1:114, to Witt
The west one-half of the sonthweat auarter of
section 9, township 30, north, of range 3 east, 80
acres said real estate being in Iron county. Mis
souri.
(An Itemized statement in the nature ot ft tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 32-100 dollars, is filed with said pe
tition as provided by law.) '
And unless they be and ftnoear at the next term
of said court to be holden for the county of Iron,
and State of Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
1916, and on or before the third day thereof (it
the term shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will he
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in accord,
ance with the prayer of said petiton and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, he sold,
under a special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a cony hereof be tmb.
limbed according to law in the Iron County. Reo
18TER, a weekly newspaper published in said
oounty of Iron, and 8tate of Missouri.
jmas Jl. HA w n.in s, circuit Ulerk.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal this 26th day
of June, 1916.
(SEAL) JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
Edith Westerman, Plaintiff,
against
Effie Moser, Nettie Peaslee and My
ron . xtencenausen, aeienaants.
The State of Missouri, to the above
named Defendants Greeting:
You are hereby notified that an
action has been commenced against
you in the Circuit Court of the County
01 iron, in tne state 01 Missouri, tor
the purpose of securing a decree of
partition and order of sale for the
following described lands, to-wit;
Lots tnree (3,) four (4,) Ave (5), six
C6.1 twelve C12.1 thirteen fl3l. f thir
teen (14,) fifteen (15,) and sixteen
(16,) in block sixteen (16,) and lotsix
(6) and seven (7) in block fourteen
(14;) all in the town of Pilot Knob,
Mo., as the same appear on the plat
ot said town of Pilot Knob, Mo., on
me in tne office of the Kecorder of
Deeds for Iron County, Missouri,which
said action is returnable on the first
day of the next term of said Court, to
be held at the Court House in the City
of Ironton, in the County of Iron and
State of Missouri, on the fourth Mon
day m October next, 1916, 'when and
where you may appear and defend
such action; otherwise, plaintiff's pe
tition will be taken as confessed,!and
judgment rendered accordingly.
it is ordered that a copy Hereof be
duly published at least once a week
for 4 consecutive weeks in the Iron
County Register, a weekly news
paper duly printed, published and
circulated in said Iron County, and
duly designated by plaintiff's attor
ney, and duly approved by said Clerk
as most likely to give notice to de
fendant, the last insertion to be at
least fifteen days before said next
term of said Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI,
COUNTY OP IRON.
I, J. M. Hawkins, Clerk of the Cir
cuit Court of Iron Oounty, Missouri,
hereby certify that the foregoing writ
ing if a full, true and complete copy of
notice of suit and the original Order of
Publication in said cause, as fully as
the same remains and appears of reo
ord in my office.
- In Witness Whereof, I hereto sub
scribe my name and official signature
and hereto affix the seal of said Court
at my office in the City of Ironton,
Iron County, Missouri, this 20th day
seal of July, 1916.
J. M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court ot Iron County, Missouri
in vacation, August 10, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector ol the
revenue oi Iron county, Missouri,
against
James W. Hanna and William S. Worley, if
living, or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees oi James W. Uanna and William
S. Worley, 11 thoy be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enlorce Lien lor Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P,
Burnham, collector ol the revenue oi iron
county, Missouri, and files his petition and
affidavit, setting forth among other things,
that the defendants,
.Tames W. Hanna and William 8. Worley, ii
living, or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devisees of James V. Hanna and William fci.
Worley, if they be dead,
are non-residents of the state ol Missourt,
and that they cannot be served with sum
mons in said state. It is, therefore, order
ed by the clerk oi the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, fn vacation, that
publication be made notifying said de
fendants that an action has been com
menced against them in the circuit court ol
said county, the object and general nature
oi which is to eniorce the lien oi the state
ot Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to tbe said defendants lor back
taxes lor the years 1912, 1913 and 1914, to wit;
- The north half ol lot ii of the southwest
quarter oi section 18, township 31. north, of
range 4 east said real estate being in Iron
county, Missouri.
(An tteraised statement in the nature of a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on ssid real estate for the years
aforesaid, atnonntlng in the aggregate to tho sum
of eight and ti3-10(J dollars, is Hied with said
petition as provided by law,!
And unless they be and appear at the next term
of said eonrt to be holden for the county of Iron,
and state of Missonri, at the oourt house in said
county on tba fourth Monday in October next,
11)16, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the term shall so longeontinuet and, if not, then
before the end of the term), ftnd plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in ac
cordance with the prayer of said petition, and
said real estate, or so much thereof as msy be
necessary to satisfy said judgment, interest and .
eosts, be sold under a special fieri facias to be
issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a eopy hereof be -
Kblished acoordlng to law In the Iron County
gistera weekly newspaper published in said
county of Iron, and stats of Missouri-
JK9NK M. HAWKINH, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record t
SEAL Witness my hand and official seal, this
lOlt day of August, lit III.
; J KSHK M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, iron oounty, Mo.
WM. R. XDQAR.
WM. IDOAI, J
edqar & edoar
Attorneys at Law,
IRONTON. KO.
Practice in all the Coirfi of the Stat.
