Mm ' IH
I fL?r: ahtaMnimhrli 4 p-a I
II New York, Aug. 24-Sllver, 663.8c; , CL 3 'V VI V f W V'V W'V "V lT'' knight
JIB lead, $6.606.75; spelter, $9.259 75 J Tt 17 . and Friday Except Showers In Ex-
copprc, S26.2528.00, -"(Sa.5f r v treme South Portion Tonight; Not JM
'imm V - Much Change In Temperature. IH
lj . J . FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' ,
ill Forty-sixth Year No. 203. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, AUGUST 24, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah.
I Charles E. Hughes Greeted by Large I
f'l ; , Audience in the Alhambra Theatre I
! GREEKS ARE HASTENING FROM ALL
i POINTS TO JOIN S ALONIKI FORCES
-
'
' $oys and Men Rush to Fight Bulgarians Corps of Albanians
I; Arrive at Allied Camp Intense Feeling Over Bulgarian
j Advance Mass Meeting Is Called Heavy Sea
y Fighting Reported Turks Report Russians
I Suffer Heavy Losses in Armenia Petro-
: i grad Announces Capture of
i Two Regiments.
i
II Sofia, Aug. ,24, via London, 6:30 p. m. Bulgarian
I troops advance on the western end of the Macedonian front
defeated the Serbians and compelled them to retreat, the, war
I office announced today. They captured several positions.
I Athens, Aug. 23, via London, Aug. 24, 12:28 p. m.
Greek troops are still resisting the Bulgariana,at Seres in north-
$ eastern Greece, notwithstanding the orders of the general staff
f that they retire. The Greeks are being reinforced rapidly by
f volunteers.
, From all, parts of Greece boys and men are hastening to
Saloniki to volunteer with the entente forces to fight the Bul-
garians. A corps of Albanians has arrived at Saloniki.
I In view of the intensity of feeling over the Bulgarian ad-
I vance, a mass meeting planned for next Sunday in celebration
f of the anniversary of the revolution of 1 909 is regarded with
; some apprehensionV
J The advance of the Bulgarians in northeastern Greece
I was made with the sanction of the Greek government, Bul-
, . garia and Germany having guaranteed the return of the terri-
) I Tory after the .war. The Bulgarians desired to take up defen-
l i sive positions in anticipation of a drive by the entente allies.
l; I
1 Amsterdam, Aug. 24, via London, 3 : 40 p. m. Advices re-
) ceived here today from the Dutch Island of Ameland in the
IS I North sea say continual and heavy gun firing from the north
M f has been audible all morning,
the! a
II Tho drive of the Bulgarian array
asain.it tho- allied right flank on the
3 Macedonian front apparently de
3 veloped into a sharper clash with the
4 entente forces and greater loss to
5! them than had previously been Inu
J tated, judging from the official re-
port received from Sofia today. A
'j severe defeat was administered to
General Sarrall's troops along tho
Struma river on August 21, the state
ment declares.
The Bulgarian forces have now
entrenched themselves on the east
)' bank of the Struma and along the
i highway to Seres, according to French
1 ofTlciai reports today. Their posi
tions here lie in the way of an allied
advance along the most direct route
into Belgium.
Field Marshal von Hindenburg has
taken the offensive northeast of
Kovel. Petrograd reports the repulse
of this attack.
In southern Turkish Armenia the
Russians are pushing their new offen
sive and report the defeat of the
Fourth Turkish division in an engage
I ment in the Mosul region, duriug
which two Turkish regiments were
j taken prisoner.
' The allied offensive In the Balkans
'I is developing added impetus, todays
'? advices indicate.
j Paris reports the Serbians oris the
;' aggressive on the ridge along the
western end of the front where they
) have stormed and captured a lull
) three miles northwest of Ostrovo lake.
I Tho Bulgarians took this position in
their initial drivo on the allies left
'! flank. , t
The Bulgarian war office in a slate-
j ment issued yesterday announces an
overwhelming defeat of the entente
forces along tho Struma, stating that
they took flight, leaving 400 dead on
the field.
u
I The entente center has been
fv jected to attacks, but tho French
statement announces 'that these have
Mf been easily repulsed. No, forward
ill movement Is reported by the entente
(II forces in this region, which Includes
Ml the Vardar valley, up which It lia
M . been thought probable tho main ioi-
M ward movement would be pressed, nut
;l J, the entonto artillery is active, partic-
M f ular in tho Lake Dolran region.
M Berlin dispatches indicate that ku-
1 mania's attitude is still considered D
tho Central Powers as decidoly uncer-
! tain while news from other sources
W a gives no clue as to whether her entry
ij into tho war on tho side of the on-
: l tente is imminent.
; Activity on the Somme front in
: northern Franco seems to have slack-
i ened momentarily, although the artil-
J lery is still being vigorously em
I ' ployed. .
Constantinople reports tho Russians
I suffered heavv casualties in Armenia,
I losing 3,000 men in tho Ognot sector
I alone Petrograd announces tho cap
I ture of two Turkish regiments in the
" fighting on this front.
I .: Another Zeppelin visited the east
'i England coast last night. London as-
v serts that the bombs dropped fell in
I '" open fields. ,
I ' Buloars Are Entrenching.
I Paris, Aug.f24, 12:22 p. m.The
t French war office this afternoon
f gave out an official announcement on
' the operations in front of SaloniKi,
I I reading ns follows:
"In front of the right wing -of the
' S
allied armies the enemy is entrench
ing himself on the left bank of the
rJver Struma and on both sides of
tho highway to Seres. Between the
Struma and the upper valley of the
Moglenica Anglo-French forces have
repulsed without trouble several at
tempts of the enemy to recapture tho
positions occupied by Anglo-French
forces north of Palmes; In the Rec
tor of Dolran and in the direction of
Ljumu'ca.
"Along the entire mountainous
from west of the Moglenica Serbian
troops are developing an offensive.
On the extreme left they have re
occupied as a result of a vigorous
counter attack Hill 1056. eight kilo
meters (five miles) west of Ostrovo
lak. which position they lost oh the
morning of August 21."
Situation In Turkestan.
Berlin, Aug. 24, by wireless to Say
viile. -Reports received through
Stockholm indicate that the situation
in Turkestan is growing worse, says j
an Overseas News Agency statement j
today. General Kuropatkin, who was
recently appointed governor-general
of Turkestan has been compelled to
issue severe orders to cope with the
conditions, the advices declare.
Heavy Attacks on Russians.
Petrograd, Aug. 24 (via London, 2
p m.) Teutonic forces have begun
determined attacks against the Rus
sians who recently forced their way
across to the west bank of the Stole
hod in the vicinity of Rudka-Chervi-sche,
northeast of Kovel.
Today's announcement by the war
office aays:
"Yesterday the enemy opened a
fierce artillery and machine gun fire
on our positions near Tobol, on the
western bank of tho Stokhod, thirty
Mtrht miles northeast of Kovel. In the
afternoon enemy columns commenceu
an offensive, but were driven by our
rifle and machine gun fire.
"The presence of Turkish troops on
the Zlota Llpa, Galicia, is disclosed
by prisoners taken."
Macedonian Front Quiet.
London, Aug. 24, G:05 p m. Nelth
er the Bulgarians nor the entente
forces on the Macedonian front at
tempted vigorous offensive actions
yesterday. An official statement is
sued here today says ,that artillery
fighting continues but records no In
fantry encounters.
"There has been artillery activity on
l ho Dolran," says the statement, "but
ro infantry action. On the Struma
front our artillery dispersed Bulgar
ians who were entrenched on the left
bank of the river. The enemy's ar
tillery shelled Orlak bridge.
"The Serbians are on tho same
line as reported yesterday."
Intense Bombardment at Soyecourt.
Paris, Aug. 24. 12 noon. After an
intense' bombardment of tho Soye
court woods, the Germans attacked
with grenades the French positions
south of the Somme last night but
without avail, says today's war office
statement Positions between Floury
and Thlaumont, which had been
taken by tho French, were violently
shelled by tho German guns.
The statement says:
(Continued on Pago 10.)
t
NOMINEE INTRODUCED
BY JUDGE J. A. HOWEIX
People Stand as Mr. Hughes and Party Enter the Theater and
Organist Plays National Air Governor Spry and Other
Distinguished Republicans on the Stage Trip
Through Canyon Before the Speaking.
When Charles E. Hughes, the Republican candidate for president,
entered the Alhambra theater at 2 :20 this afternoon, he -was greeted
by a magnificent audience, standing as the great organ pe?Jed forth
the notes of "America."
The distinguished presidential part- arrived on a regular South
ern Pacific train at 12 :55 and was received by a comparatively small
crowd of not not more than 250 people.
From the depot, IIr. Hughes, his "svife and the newspaper corre
spondents in the partr were taken in automobiles on a drive through
Ogden canyon to the city wells, much t.o the pleasure of the guest of
honor. Mr. Hughes rode in the car, of Ralph Rristol, and was enter
tained by P. J- Hendershot, who pointed out the principal scenic fea
tures and kept up a spirited conversation. Returning, Mr. Hugh erf
snd wife -went to a suite reserved at the,Reed hotel, and the candi
date sought rest for ten minutes before the time for the beginning
of his address in the Alhambra.
Arrival at Depot.
The Hughes special arrived on
scheduled time. An expectant crowd
of about 300 awaited at tho station.
Automobiles were parked on the drlvo
wnys in the front of tho grounds nnd
around to within a tew 'feet of the
iron fencing on tho north end. Near
ly ten minutes elapsed before Mr.
Hughes emerged from the seclusiou
of his private car "Constitution,"
which was attached to the rear end of
the Southern Pacific passenger .train
There was a minor demonstration for
the candidate. So hurriecfly was he
escorted to a waiting auto, that the
people barely got a square look at
him. Those who did see him saw only
the back of his head, ns the candidate
glanced from one side to the other
while moving toward the machine that
had been waiting to receive him and
other members of hiB private party.
Tho twenty-eight representatives uf
eastern newspapers and magazines
accompanying Mr. Hughes on his west
ern campaign tour, and Ogden and
Salt Lake newspapermen, who went
out on tho Southern Pacific passen
ger this morning to meet the Hughes
special at tho state line, were the
first to climb into the automobiles
that were to take them on the trip
through Ogden canyon and back.
These automobiles were furnished by
members of the W,ebor club, who en
tertained tho newspaper men during
their brief stay in the city and who
escorted them on the tour through
the mountain gorge. This tour was
conducted President W. H. Wattla
and James P. Casey,' secretary of the
publicity bureau. I. L. Reynolds as
sisted other officials of the club u
finding places in the cars for th
visitors.
The' presidential nominee and his
party were taken Into the canyon In
automobiles for which arrangements
had been made by Glen Miller, state
chairman, Samuel G. Dye of the state
executive committee, and Charles H
ITollingsworth, chairman of the Webe
county Republican organization. Oth
er prominent Republicans from Og
don and Salt Lake, including Cover
nor Spry, Senator Sutherland and
Nephl L. Morris, occupied automo
biles that formed a par.t of the train.
When the machines lcrt the union
station grounds, thero was honking
that served to remind the populace
that the distinguished visitor was
here in person.
"While the party was on the canyon
excursion, many sought entrance to
tho Alhambra theater, where the
scheduled address was delivered. By
1:20 o'clock the entrance was the
scene of animation.
Thc auto party returned from the
canyon shortly before 2 o'clock. The
presidential nominee and members of
his private party, together with other
prominent Republicans, stopped at the
Reed hotel, which had been engaged
as temporary quarters for Mr. Hughes
during his visit to the city.
Mr. Hughes entered " tho theatre
through the main entrance. He was
escorted by prominent Republicans.
As they marched down tho aisle there
was prolonged applauso. Mr. Hughes
took a seat on the stage at "2:20.
- Judge Howell, in introducing Mr.
Hughes, referred to tho Republican
national convention which placed the
candidate in nomination. He said the
action of the delegates was but an
echo of the sentiment all over the
land for a change from four years of
Democratic rule and that the people
looked to tho Republican standard
bearer to lead them out of a wilder
ness of doubt Into an era of Repub
lican efficiency. He briefly reviewed
Mr. Hughes' record both as governor
of New York and justice of the su
preme court. He pointed to Mr.
Hughes' resignation from the su
preme court as an evidence of good
faith with the party and that It was
the candidates aim to lead tho party
to victory. Judge Howell's reference
to Roosevelt's action in refusing to
lead the Progressive party ticket and
his indorsement of Hughes in the in
terest of party harmony, was vigor
onsly applauded. When he mention
ed Mr. Hughes' name there was pro
longed handclapplng and then ap
plause lead by the people on the
stage.
At the Alhamora Mr. Hughes spoko
extemporaneously.
Mr. Hughes said:
"I wish I could make the response
that is in my heart for this eloquent
tribute in the introductory address,
the display of patriotism and tth(
demonstration in my behalf.
"It is gratifying to bo spokesman
of a reunited party of a party that
loes not admit of a division.
"I hnve no desire to be censorius
of friends who disagree with us. But
to achieve great ideals ahead of us
we must have tho instrument of great
national party.
(Continued on Paso 10.)
rvn
OFFENSIVE OF
TO IS HALTED
London, Aug. 23. Everywhere on
the 250-mile battle line from tho Pri
pet marshes down to the Carpathians
the genoral offensive launched by the
Russians under General Brussiloff in
the first days of July hns been brought
to a standstill at some points. Par
ticularly in Volhynia, northeast of Ko
vel, In the Sereth valley, east of Lem
berg, and In tho Carpathians the Aus
troorman armies have launched suc
cessful counter-attacks during the last
forty-eight hours, regaining some lost
ground. Petrograd claimed no new
gains in its official statements today.
oo
TAFT TO SPEAK.
New York, Aug. 24. Chairman
Willcox, of the Republican commit
tee, announced today that former
President Taft will make a number
of speeches during the campaign,
probably in October, the places to be
determined later.
RAILROAD PRESIDENTS WILLING I
TO ACCEFIJ1GHTI01 DAY I
Executives Ask in Return Assurance of Freight Increase by
Interstate Commerce Commission They Ask Congress
to Create Permanent Board Similar to Canadian
Commission to Handle Future Labor Disputes
Other Proposals Are Made Vote of 640 jH
Men Must Be Taken. IH
Washington, Aug. 24. After con
tinued conferences today between
President Wilson and the select com
mittee of railroad executives, the sit
uation surrounding the threatened
strike or railroad employes was de
scribed as having narrowed down to
the following:
The railroad presidents, at least
the selection, are willing to accept
, the eight-hour day insisted upon by
President Wilson and the trainmen.
In return, they ask tfcat they be as-
sured as fully as possible that all
' proper support be given and proper
means be used to assure them a
freight rate increase from the inter
c state commerce commission.
I They ask also that congress create
a permanent commission or board sim-
ilar to the Canadian commission to
handle future labor disputes. A
commission of this character would
I be empowere'd to investigate when la
e bor troubles threaten and no strike
could be called or strike vote taken
s pending its investigation, a full re-
port of which would be made public
at Its conclusion.
At the end of the investigation, ar-
hitration would be suggested but if
not accepted, opportunity would be
S given . to the men to take a strike
vote. The balloting would be secret.
Those proposals were comthunlcat-
ed today by Chairman Chambers of
? the federal board of mediation to tho
representatives of the men ayIio ap-
parently regarded them favorably.
Judge Chambers then reported to
President Wilson and a sub-commit-
tec of railroad executives was sum-
moned to the White House.
S President Wilson is understood to
feel some sympathy for the counter
demands of the railroads and not.
averse to having the men accept
them It is understood, however, that
a vote of G40 labor representatives
must be taken before they can re-
ceive the necessary indorsement.
Washington. Aug. 24. Af ter con-
ferences with representatives of the
employers and employes, Commlssion-
er Chambers of the federal mediation
, board discussed the strike situation
I with President Wilson and made ar-
rangements fog a groupe of the rail-
road presidents to see Mr.. Wi son
immediately. There were reports that
a settlement of the controversy was
tr, atrrlit
Hale Holden of the Burlington;
Daniel Willard of the Baltimore and
Ohio: and R. S. Lovett of the Union
S Pacffic The railroad sub-committee
which has been dealing with the presl
! dent for the last two days, arrived
at the White House shortly before one
o'clock and refused to make any state-
ment before seeing the president.
After the conference It was said
teh outlookvasmore hopeful if any-
S The president sent tor theexecu-
tlves to acquaint them witVthe pro-
press made byhimin-lealing with
the problem suggested at previous
conferences.
Washington, Aug. 24. Renewed op
timism on prospects for averting a
threatened railway strike Prevailed
I today among the representatives or
the employed at tho White House.
j Commissioner Chambers of the i f ert-
oral mediation . hoard after confer-
rln- with 1-resiaenL wuaw,
a message to the brotherhood leaders
todav. It was supposed, to be some
form of proposal made to President
Wilson last night by the sub-committee
of railroad executives.
It was kept secret, but A. B. Gar
retson, spokesman for thp employes
voiced the opinion of all when he said
?t certainly was not depressing."
Other leaders indicated it was very
satisfactory. , ,
The executives met and beard the
renort of the sub-committee, which
has been working on a counter pro
posal and there were Indications that
President Wilson expected an answer
today or at the latest, tomorrow.
Signs of unrest among me uiu,
apparent yesterday, disappeared to
day and there were renewed indica
tions that the railroads would agree
on some proposal to include the eight
hour day in a manner satisfactory to'
the employes' committee and then
bring about a deep investigation of
all the collateral issues.
Courses which might bo taken by
congress affecting directly the present
railway situation, it was pointed out,
are these:
Direct the interstate commerce com
mission by resolution to investigate
the entire subject of the relations be
tween railroads and their employes.
Pais the pending bill to increase
tho commission's membership from
seven to nine in anticipation of addi
tional duties to be Imposed.
Enact a measure compelling arbi
tration of future disputes similar to
that pending.
Establish the eight-hour day princi
ple by legislation.
H
Pass measures clearing the way for jH
government ownership of railroads.
The first two proposals we're re
ceiving most serious consideration, it
was said.
Statements given out by the railway jH
presidents showed no relaxation in
their opposition to tho eight hour prln
clple, and there was no direct indl- y
cation of when they might give a
final answer to President Wilson. H
Many telegrams from industrial and
commercial interests protesting
against granting the eight hour day
were displayed by the railway heads.
BULGARS DEFEAT I
ENTENTEFORCES I
Allies Put to Rout Leaving
" 400 Dead and War
Supplies.
Berlin, Aug. 24, wireless to Say
:ville. Defeat of the entente forces
'laong the Struma on the Macedonian 1
front In northeastern- Greece was '
announced by the Bulgarian war of- 1
flee in a statement issued yesterday
at Sofia.
The statement says the entente for
ces took flight, leaving the ground
covered with dead and that up to tho
time the statement was issued the
bodies of more than 400 dead had fM
been counted. Large quantities ot
ammunition and supplies, including
eight machine guns, were captured,
by the Bulgarians.
The Struma river follows an irregu.
lar ' course through northeastern
Greece, cutting across the open coun
try along the northern shore of tho
Aegean sea. Bulgarian forces appear
ed in this region last week and took jH
up the defensive positions along the
river. They met with no opposition
from the entente forces as this region
is some distance east of tho old battle
line. Several Greek forts were oc jJ
cupied and4he Bulgarians threw up
entrenchments. The importance of
this line lies in the fact that it shuts (
oil the allies from the easiest route 1
into Bulgaria, if an invasion should bo
attempted, and enables the Bulgarians '
to hold strong defensive positions be
hind the river.
The announcement follows:
"We defeated the enemy on the
Struma on Aug. 21. The enemy es
caped by flight on the right bank. The
whole ground In the neighborhood of jH
the villages of Erikdui, Mevory and J
Towolova was covered with bodies of
the enemy's dead. Up to the present j
we have counted more than 400 dead, j
including the bodies of several offi-
"We captured eight machine guns,
a large number of rifles, grenades and
wagons for artillery and supplies. We
also took 100 unwounded prisoners, in
eluding four officers and 60 wounded ,
prisoners. The battlefield was cov
ered -with a huge quantity of kits,
which proved that the enemy was de.
featcd completely.
Cavalry Annihiiaxca. tm
"A squad of hostile cavalry was lur-
ed by a maneuver of our cavalry into ( jH
the range of our infantry fire and lit-
orally annihilated.
"French attacks which had been di-
rected for ten days against our posi-
tions south and west of Lake Doiran i
fniled completely. This probably is
the reason why the general staff of
General Sarrail, the allied command-
er reports the capture of places which
all along has been In the hands of the
French, such as the railroad station
at Dolran and the village of Doloudy- Jm
eli, which was abandoned by the ,
"Our troops buried fifty French
dead on the right bank of the Vardar. ; Vm
In the vicinity of Nayadagn we cap- .
tured a hostile detachment and ono
machine gun. The French left seventy j
dead behind them." J
Serbians Are Attacked.
Berlin, Aug. 24, via London, o'.ol
Pt mTho Bulgarian attack is pro-
ceeding against the Serbian positions J jM
near Lake Ostrovo, on the Macedon- jH
lan front. The war office report of to- , jH
day says tho Bulgarians defeated Ser- ,. jH
blan counter attacks. j jH
The announcement says: jl
"On tho 'heights west of Lako Os- w J
trovo the Serbians are still ofiering IH
resistance to the Bulgarian attack. ;
Their counter-attacks against uze
maat Jeri failed; ,
"All reports from tho enemy s camp
regarding Serbo-Granco-British sue I
cesses, both hero and nneJaE
and the Struma, are pure inventions. ,
