BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
NUMBER 8.
IN RFARSNFSS
LEGISLATURE'S
PECIAL SESSION
Bills Drafted 1 csterclay by
to OITicinls Will Be Intro-
. .i ji. ti mi.!., it
fll 111 I 1IU IIUUlTII. I 1I1UL11
by Individuals.
8-HOUR PLAN ONLY
WAY OF AVERTING
RAILROAD STRIKE
on Will Be Held This Eve-
-VT r-V At
tr ii ivflccss ii v ihil" m:;tf-
Carrics ?10 Monthly Pay
Each Gwudsnian; Other
i r t 1 i
Executives, Realizing: This Fact, Seek Means of
Meeting Added Expense of Its Adoption
President's Suggestions So Far Not Feasible
Congress May Pass Legislation to Help
Solve Present Difficulty and to Provide for
the Future.
WAR INTEREST NOW
HELD BY IVES ON
SALON I Kl H
AVnshlngton, Aiir. 23 In another
orfort to nld the piosldonts of tho
country's railroads to (Ind some
wiiy in which to nccopt an elght
hour day for their trainmen and
avert tin threatened strike, President
Wilson to-night conferred for an hour
find a half with President.- Jink' lloldi-n
of the Hurllngton, Daniel V II lard of
the Haltlmnro .t Ohio and R. S. Lovett
of the Union Paelllc.
Neither White House offlclnls nor
presidents would discuss the cou
th.'
poller Aug 23. Adjourn
of ti e rnei Inl session of the
ml A ciiil h Friday noon la the
f those v. ho o-iilght are oiling
roll on I' to-monow forenoon at
ritek and rvei votie seems con-
tiift (.M ltusmoss C'Mi he coni
w !1 i" the two days' time. It
hnl 1 tli f 'i osslnii will lie held
da- r veiling If such a move Is
;ar ' h irry along tho matters
eoPFh'ere 1
hni'ii of the wavs and means
prlatir d military committees
red wit n Jprn or Weeks of the
an! I ' ') nit Governor Darl-
U'lun this efK'-noon, and Gov-
OiHs an ed in the city late
Vfiil 'C rnd Joined them.
hills are In Inn framed hy those
1 nhnw oho providing for the
ily H.o rf the erniout soldiers
In sorioo on tho holder, and
ther providing for an appioprla-
carr for the dependents of the
k In IS" when the Vermont mill
as sent South the Legislature In
1 session nassed a hill nroviding
monthlv wage of $7 a month, hut
the intention of the committee
iovod that it u 111 meet witli favor.
care of the dependent fami
ne or at hast until Governor
is consulted. Roth measures will
traduced in the House and nroh-
hy individuals rather than us
me mine a joint session will he
till
nit half the representatives nro in
- it y this evening and the others
xpocted to arrive early to-morrow
otor.
fercucos. It was said on authority, how
eer, that the thrci! executives went
in mi- line iiouso to receive an an
One of the means for recouping sug
gested hy the IMesldent to the rnll
londs In his puhlle outline of his posi
tion was through an Increase In
freight rates. it was pointed out to
night that the IMesldent cannot direct
ly ask the Interstate connnerco com
mission to grant Increases to the rail
roads. Congress, however, might pass
a losolutlon directing tho commission
In view of what It considers an unpre
cedented situation to grant higher
rates.
Congress also might pas'? a resolu
tion directing the commission to In
vestigate an mattois Investigated in
out controversy, and the whole
WOl ' 111 1 JJM.J1J
SAVINGS BANKS GROW
nieu uvpr ,i mt i I'm. ill irnr,
'nlloulug Wnr's Outbreak.
i i k ii . jwiiz. jeiiosus in
1 salngs hanks of the United
Increased more than M per cent.
p year, following tlie outhreak of
:urnpcan war. At tho close of the
flcsal year deposits aggregated
1 t.TilK, and depositors numbered
14, making an average of more
$ 1 2 T for each depositor. The pns-
nvmirs svsieiii wis inaiiir rinei
ary .1, 1011. under Postmnstor-O,en-Frnnk
H. Hitchcock of Massaehu-
and at the close of that fiscal
the avi rage of each depositor was
than Vr At the close of 1012
ivoragc had Increased to JSO. In
It was $102 and in 1014 tho uver
lncreased to $111.
swer to the suggestion thes mnde to i t1"' ""r!-'
Mr Wilson last night that he give theni ! i'uhjeet of the relations of railroads
more specific Information as to how their employes. One result cx-
the railroads may get the additional ' period from to-day's conference Is an
levenuo necessary to take caie of the i early effort to pas the hill Intro
greater payrolls that wll' come with i dueed several months ago to Increase
the eight-hour day. ''he commission's memhershlp from
Earlier In the day President Wilson I seven to nine,
discussed tho railroad situation at' " hccn.np eldcnt to-night that most
length with Senator Ncwlands and!"'' I'"' lallioad executives have come
Itepresontatlvo Adnmsnn, chairman ofjt' heliove that there can ho only one
the two committees of Congress In ; wny of preventing a strike and that
charge of legislation affecting Inter- ' accepting the right. hour plan.
state commerce. Their visit was In , The chief effoit in their own confer
consequence of that of the railroad men ' ''tiros to-day was to find some scheme
last night The two chairmen are said ' which an eight-hour day may he
to have agreed that tho President's po- i P'lt in operation on all the railroads
sltion in tho present situation wis 1 at the least added expense. Many sug
rlght and to have said that every effort j gostlons along this lino have heen
could he expected In Congress to put made hy tho presidents, hut no one of
through any legislation which might I them lias proved feaslhle when suh
help solve the present dllficulty and I milled to the acid test of operating
provldo for the future. officials.
Greek Commander at Seres Re
ported Preparing to Resist
Further Advances of Bulbars
Front Still Quiet.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
AODISON COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
ROUMANIA YET UNDECIDED
French Mark Time on Western
Front While British Continue
Active Verdun Remains the
Storm Center Russians Fight
Desperately in Carpathians.
MINORITY STOCK BIG SUBMARINE
HOLDERS OF BM OEUTSCRLAND SAFE
TO MAKE A FIGHT IN GERMAN PORT
i
Hoston, Aug. 2.1 In answer to the petl- Hiilletln Herlln, Aug 2.1, (hy wlrloss to
tlou for a receiver for tho Hoston & !Kaville. K. V )-The merchant suhmarlno
Maine railroad, which was filed In the , Do.itschland arrived at the mouth of the
I'lilted States district court yesterday, I Weser on August 21, according to the
tho mad to-day announced its consent 1 Overseas News Agency. Tho agency says
to an order appointing a receive and j that tho Onitsrhland arrived on the after
averred that the matters contained in noon of August 2:1 and anchored hcfoio
tho hill of complaint nie true. The an
swer was filed late to-day. That le
ceivorshlp proceedings would he sharply
contested, however, was indicated in a
statement issued to-night hy Conrad W.
the river. All on hoaid weio well.
The noutsehland, a Herman surer-suh-marine
hullt for carrying merchandise,
arrived at Halllmore from Hioniou on
Crooker, junior counsel for the Hoston .July f with a cargo of dyestuffs and mails.
Minority Stockholders' association claim
ing to represent SflO out of approximately
03,000 shares.
UNVEIL TABLET AT
Her arrhal was hailed in Cerinany as
the l.eulnntng of a regular suhmnrino
merchant service hetweou tho rutted
Stales and (iormany which would he utile
to defy the lirltMi hlockade. It was an
nolinre.l Hint ul.r, .v,m!,l l.n r,.il.......i
JOHN BROWN'S GRAVE shottly M- the Hiemen, a sNter ship.
I The llemehland left ilaltlmoro on her
l.ako Placid, X. Y Aug. 23. V nie- icturn journey on August 1 laden with a
morial tablet to .lohn Ilrown, the cargo of rubber anil metal.
merlcan abolitionist, was unveiled ,
with appropriate ceremonies to-day at JIRATTIl CnVrUTirYMC
his g.ave near tho village of North U' ON 1501? IYF I? mfin
Klba. N. V. Addresses were made hy I i liUItUfciK (.jUUIJ
Myron T. Horrlck, former ambassador
to France; Hear Admiral Frank V.
'letcher, IT. S. .V.; Itabbi Stephen S.
Wise of New York city, II. G, War-
muth, former governor of Louisiana:
rank I!. Sanborn of Concoid, Mass.,
Kelly Miller, dean of Howard Univcr-
ity, and John U. .Mulhollnnd.
GKESSMAN DALE
TO STUMP NEW JERSEY
for many senators and ropre-
tlves In fhn I'onnhHi'nn pnmnnlrn
hy Representative Slemp, acting as
iii.iii ui sooiiKi'is iiuieau 01 liiu
bllcnn congressional committee.
run from the middle of Septem-
tn the first week of November.
puniiran representatives win maun
ranging from ono to five weeks
r the plans of the congressional
iitoo. I'irieen sininn w.in imr...
csentatlvo Fnrdney of Michigan
o Representative I.nngworth of
win cover u uo7.cn Miaics, mostly
East. Representative Chandler
cw lorK win speaK in New Jersey,
Graham of Pennsylvania In doubt-
istrlets in New nrlr. nnH Ttnnrr.
atlve Dale of Vermont In Now Jcr-
TO DROPS .35 FEET
INTO AUSABLE RIVER
Isbllrgh .Hun mid Tour Young
Women lime .Niirrim llsenpr.
nttsburKli. N. Y.. Aug. 23. An auto
llo in which Frank W. Judge of
city wns driving this afternoon
i tho Misses Hayes. Muldoon, Mulll
and MoOnvorn of New York city,
are attending the. Catholic summer
'ol of America, crashed through an
railing neur Ausahlo Chasm und
iped into tho Ausahlo rlvur 33 feot
ls.i llnyes, a sister-in-law of
mas W, Churchill, former president
h" Kt w York city board of educa-
had both legs broken anil Judge
ored Internal Injuries. Tho other
ne women worn not hurt.
r Judge caved tho lives of tho
ne women by rutting a lioln in tho
d of tho nutomobllo and pullliifr
n inroiigu noiuro the car nanu in
cot ot water.
With no changes of Importance In the
main thcatics of the war, Interest remains
centered on the now allied offensive on
tho Salottlkl front. Tho latest despatches,
however, from tho war capitals throw lit
tle light on tho situation and tho allies'
plans and objectives remain somewhat ob
scure.
London reports that the Hulgnrlans
have advanced along tho Struma valley
and have entrenched themselves at vari
ous points. Berlin also reports further
advances for the Hulgiirs on the light
whig whero they nro facing the Serbians.
Apparently, however, no notion of tlrst
Importance has yet developed at any point
on this front.
Interest in tho attitude- of the Creeks
has been heightened by press despatches
telling of tho determination of the (Jreek
commander at Seres to resist tho Hulga
rians and of volunteers being organized
for Ills assistanco by the Vcnlr.elos leaders
at Salonlkl, There has heen no further de
velopment In the Roumanian situation.
The last teport from Herlln maintains that
Roumanla lias not yet reached a decision
On the western front the French aio ap
parently marking time whllo the Hrltlsli
push their operations against Thlevpval
and Cluillemont. London reports a fresh
tightening of the ring around Thlevpval in
tlie capture of noo yards of Oermnn
tienches south of the town. Hitter fight
ing is going on In this section, tho Gor
mans counter attacking with great vio
lence. In those rooster attacks they suc
ceeded In entering romn of tho Rrltlsh
trenches, hut ncrordlnfc to London, thej
were Immediately evlctod.
Tho fierce struggle around Floury, In
the Verdun sector, continues with un
abated violence. The French elalm "an
appreciable advance" between Fleurv
land Thinumont and tho capture of two
hundred prisoners.
Conflicting cli.lms are made hy Her
lln and Pntrograd In regard to the
lighting on the eastern front. Hoth
sides report the capture of positions
near JablonlUa pass, whore a violent
struggle has boon In progress for sev
eral days on tho crest of the Carpath
ians. Herlln also claims the sanguin
ary repulse of Russian attempts tu
cross the Stokhod and apparently fight
ing of an extremely desperate charac
ter Is going on In that district.
Hoth Herlln and London continue to
make claims and counter claims In re
gard to the recent fighting In the North
sea. Herlln admits that tho battleship
Wostfalon was struck by a torpedo
from an Ihigllsh suhmarlno but main
tains that the daninge was slight. In
return the Oermnn admiralty reiterates
Its claim that a Hrltlsli battleship was
heavily damaged hy a Oermnn subma
rine. This is denied by the Hrltlsli admiralty.
Chnnnlng II. Oreeno has gono to
Worcester, Mass., where ho will visit
his parents for this week, nfter
which ho will go to the White moun
tains to spend the rest of tilt, snm
n1e,., w. it. Dow, who wns quite seri
ously Injured ten days ago hy being
thrown from a horse rake, Is slowly re
covering. Miss Abigail McNulln, who
has been visiting nl the homo of her
parents on Seymour street for tho pnst
few weeks, has returned to Worcester,
Mass. Miss Ilvn Stone of Mnlson-
neuve, Montreal, P. Q., is the guest of
-Mr. and Mrs. IMward Ooodroau on
South street. Joseph Hullnskl, who
has been working at the Orocn Moun
tain Pulp Mill plant hero for the past
year, has resigned his position and Is
moving his family to Rutland, wher.i
he. has secured a position. William
LaRoek has. gone to Tlcotulerogn, N. V.,
on a business trip. Mrs. Mary Reach
of Washington. I). C, Is tho guest of
Mr. and Mrs. Ransom CRryan of South
street. Mrs. Phillip II. Ciatie and
dnllghter have gone to Suncook, N. H
where they will visit her parents for
a few weeks. Mrs. Charles H. Orandy
has returned from Rrldport, where shn
has boon on a visit to her son, Charles
Orandy. Mrs. llnrrlot Cryslor of Now
Yolk city, who has been visiting Mr.
and Mrs. Hlien C. Ryder on Seymour
street for the past few weeks, has gone
to her summer home, "Tho Lodge," at
Ilasin Harbor, whore she will spend the
remainder of the summer. George M.
Shea of Pittsburg, N. II., is in town on
a visit to his mother, Mrs. Hsther
Shea, of High street. Mr. and Mrs.
I-Jzra Ilralnard, Jr., of J..'uskogoo, Okln.,
are spending the summer with his par
ents, Dr. and Mrs. Kara Rrainard, of
Seminal y street. Cards have been re
ceived here announcing the marriage
of Miss Laura Hello, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Waul Heecher Hrown, for
mer residents of Mlddlobtiry, to
Kdwnrd Ross of Rochester, N. Y.
After a week's wedding trip in the
mountains. Dr. and Mrs. Ross will re
side in Rochester. Several guests from
this town attended the ceremony.
Frank Powers Is moving his household
goods to nrooksvlllo, where he has pur
chased a place. Mrs. Mary Caswell
and dnllghter Frances have returned
from Springfield, Mass., where they
havo heen on a visit to her daughter,
Mrs, Dano Jackson, and family for the
past lew weeks. Levi Leno lias re
turned from tho Mary Fletcher hospital
at Hurllngton, whero he underwent a
serious surgical operation. Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Flask of Itoauct. N. Y.,
and Mr. nnd Mrs. Stafford of Kssex,
N. Y who havo boon the guests of
Mr. and Mrs. J. A, Douglas for the past
week, have returned to their homos,
Mrs. K. L. Ross has returned from the
Mary Fletcher hospital at Hurllngton,
where she has been for tho pnst few
weeks for treatment. Charles Fortlor
has loturned to his homo In Hoston
nfter a. week's stay In town with rela
tives and friends. Oeorgo C. Rosa of
New Haven, Conn., Is In town on
visit. Mrs. Raymond Hlgglns and
daughter of Springlleld, Mass., are vis
iting it ,1p liomo of her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Tlsdnlc. Mrs. Lewis
Munroe and son William, who have
lieon visiting at the homo of Miss
Laura Ross, have returned to their
home In Olens Falls, N. Y. Mr. nnd
Mrs. Ross II. Maynard, who have been
visiting relatives and friends in this
vicinity for tho past two weeks, havo
returned to their home In Hoston.
Tho Sunday school of the Fast Middle
bury Methodist Church held their
annual nlcnlc at Lake Dunmoro on
Wednesday, August 23. Gilbert Dumas (
bos ironn to Rutland for a few davs' '
visit to his daughter, Mrs. Frank
Loomls. and family. II. R. Hall, who
has been In town for the past few
weeks, has returned to his homo In
Fairfax. Alfred Cole has returned from
a few days' stay in Rutland, The Last
Mlddlobury Improvement society hold
their last ice cream and cake sale
of tho season In conjunction with the
last band concert Wednesday evening.
A. J. Gaines has gone to P.urllngton
for a few days. Mr. and Mrs. H. F.
Fnston have gone to Randolph, whero
they will spend the next few days.
R. D. Rston, who has spent the past
Dr. i few weeks hero with friends, has le-
turned to his homo in Webster, Mass.
Mrs. Roy Robbins nnd daughter are
visiting at the homo of her sister, Mrs.
Manley Winch, and family In Pittsford.
Mrs. W. W. Wilson has gone to Rut
land, where she will visit her sister
VILLA'S PRESTIGE
IE; IS REPORT
SENT BY PERSHING
Can Never Again Become Seri
ous Factor in Mexican Affairs"
Joint Border Commission to
Meet in New England.
PLANS STILL INDEFINITE
Commission's Sessions Will Be
Held during First Week in
September Recall of Troops
Indicated by Pershing's and
Funston's Communications.
(Continued on pnsre two.)
GERMAN CATHOLICS 'MEXICAN TROUBLES
CRITICIZE WILSON ; THEME OF HUGHES'
ON CLOSING DAY; ADDRESS AT RENO
Washington, Aug. 2,1 There were urn
developments to-day In tho Mexican
situation. Secretary Lnnslnr nnri r.lUon
Arredondn, Mexican ambassador des
ignate, tentatively agreed that the joint
commission to discuss border problem!
should meet at some place on tho New
IhiKlnnd coast during the tlrst week In
Peptomher. Hrlcadler-Genernl Pershlnu
transmitted a report saying the seneral
opinion wns that "Villa's prestige Is
gono and that he can never again be
come a serious factor in Mexican nf
falrs." Supporting as It does General Funston'n
recent recommendation for the with
diawal of tho expeditionary force In
Mexico, It is believed General Persl.lng'n
report makes it certain that the Ameri
can commissioners will agree prompt!'
to tho suggestions of their Mexican con
ferees for the early recall of the 'roops
Mr. Arrodondo called at the department
to rorolvo formal notification that th 1
American commissioners had bee i
selected nnd were ready to meet ths
Mexican members as soon as the time
nnd place could bo arranged. Hoth the
embassy and tho department were H
communication with Mexico Cltv to
night In regard to the fixing of a data
for beginning the sessions.
DROWNS IN MILL POND.
ANOTHER HEAT WAVE
COMING FROM WEST
Washington, Aug, 2.1. Thunder
showers to-day scaled down tempera
tures oyer eastern States from the ex
tremes of yesterday, but the cooler
weather probably will be displaced In
two or threo days by another heat wave
spreading from the West. Tho great
est drops in tenipernturo occurred at
Scranton, Pa., and Oswego, N. Y where
official thermometers recorded B5 de
grees to-nlght, 22 degrees below last
night. Throughout most of tho Knst,
South nnd Southwest Bllghtly cooler
weather prevailed,
BOSTON LAWYER IS
ELECTED RED CROSS HEAD
Montreal, Aug. 23. Kllot Wadsworth,
a Hoston lawyer, was elected vice-
chairman and executive head In Wash
ington, D. C, of tho American Rod
Cross, at a special meeting of the
executive committer! hero to-day. It
was announced that ho would movo to
Washington In order to glvo his entlro
time to tho work nfter Scptoinbor 1.
The position carrion no compensation.
Dr. Tiiiiiiiiw lliirlliigliiii C.Ives Ilnciiur
nglng II. pint after liiMpeetlon.
San Antonio. Aug. 23. Dv. Th
Darlington of Vw- York, representing
the Natlonnl Civic Federation, has fur
nished to Gen. Frederick F.instnn a re
port on health conditions in the mili
tary camps on the border nnd in Mex
ico. Ho Is due to-dny from a month's
tour.
"The sick rate Is low," said Dr. Dar
lington. "I think that summarizes tho
situation. Although there Is room for
constructive woik In a medical way, I
can truthfully say that the folks hack
homo need have no fear hut what ado
quato steps are being taken to safe
guard tho health of guardsmen who
are engaged in border service.
"I have Inspected the base hospitals
at San Antonio, Rl Paso, Nngales and
Douglas and have seen the troops In
the field.
"I spent four days nt Onlonla Dub
Inn, headfiiarters of General Pershing's
forces. The camp is most inteiestlng.
1 don t suppose there will ever bo an
other like It. To be sure, conditions
are not Ideal; the es are pretty thick,
hut the point Is, In Mexico, as along
tho bolder, ai my ofllclnls have done
their best for the comfort nnd health
of the men."
SAID TO BE FATHER
OF ADOPTED GIRLS
BRITISH BATTLESHIP
DAMAGED. SAYS BERLIN
Chicago .liink Denier, llimlinnil of GlrN
Mother Accuses Millionaire.
Chicago, Aug. 23. Rdward W. Morri
son, n multl-inllllonniro recluse, was
nnmed as the ie.il father of two girls
ho recently adopted, In proceedings to
dny before Judge Landls of the Uni
ted States district court.
The accuser was Joseph Htirnstoln,
a junk dealer, and husband of the girls'
mother. His wife, ho declared, con
fessed to him on her death bed that
Morrison wns the father of tho girls.
The millionaire, who Is nenrly SO years
old, denied the accusation.
Tho action before Judge Lnndis was
a petition to appoint a receiver for
Morrison's properties, which has heen
variously estimated at from $3,000,000
to $S, 000, 000. Ono of the contentions
was that Morrison had adopted tlie two
girls to prevent the city of Chicago
from receiving tho estate which, under
the will of Ills father, was to ho used
for educational purposes if Morrison
died childless.
Now York, Aug. 23. President Wilson
wns criticised to-night In a resolution
passed at the closing session here of the
German Roman Catholic Central Vereln
for having "preferred charges" in his
message to Congress "against a part of
our citizenship, who theretofore enjoyed
Reno, Nov., Aug. 23. Charles Evans
Hughes said In an address delivered
here lato to-day that tho prestige of
the United States has heen cut practi
cally in half, as a result of Its dealings
with Mexico. The nominee reltorated
his previous declarations for an ndo-
tlm proud distinction of utifiueslloncd i rpinte protective tariff and ngain took
loyalty nnd patriotism." Action on the I the administration to task for retiring
resolution wns taken only after then- ! trained men from Ulplonititlc service
had been a heated debate on the o.i:es- j ninke room for men without nny
tlou of the propriety of a religious or- special riuallllcations other than party
ganizatlon "entering Into political fields." loyally." Mr. Hughes said he deplored
Tho resolution, presented bv a com- ' tho fnt that tlie present ndmlnlstra
mlttee, headed by Joseph Matt ot St. 11,1,1 "lms to "m'h a larRO ffroe dis
Paul, Minn., was as follows: regarded and violated the principles of
"Without precedent In the historv of I our merit system."
our country, we find the President of! '''c can have peace without trouble
i in tills rounir.! . sam wie nominee in
discussing tlie Mexican situation. "Only
1 Inexctisnble blundering could get us
into war. We don't want anything; we
the United S.ates publicly In hl.i offi
cial message preferring charges against
a part of our citizenship, who thereto
fore enjoyed the proud distinction of un
questioned loyalty and patriotism.
"We regret this utterance and deplore
Its effects, especially In view of Its gen
eral character, without substantiating
facts, as such utterances coming from
such high source are calculated to foster
unfounded suspicion and mistrust of a
large element of our American people
and Imperil the consummation of ! pro
gram of social efficiency In our country."
THIRTY-FOUR AIR
RAIDS ON ENGLAND
HOUSE AND BARN BURN.
Properly f I'eter l.iil'n j rttc Kestrojed
liy Karl)- .Morning Fire.
Lincoln, Aug, 23. Tho house and
barn owned by peter LaFnyctto wore
destroyed by llro about 5:30 o'clock tills
morning. Tho origin of tho llro is sup
posed to have been in a defective flue,
as a blano was first seen issuing from
tho roof near the chimney. Owing to
tho scarcity of watnr tho fire gained
great headway In splto of tho ready
responto of men In tho surrounding
district to tho call for help. The
greater part of tho contents of iho
house was snved. Tho loss on the
hulldlnca is puitiully coveted by limur-unco.
Hoinn via Loudon, Aug 23. Tho
claim that a Hrltlsli battleship was
damaged by a German suhmarlno in tho
recent lighting In the North sea Is re-
prated with considerable detail In an
nllloinl stall mr nt Issued to-day by tho
admiralty. The statement says that
after the torpedo struck the warship
only tlie body uf the vessel without
funnels or masts was visible while the
full silhouette of tho neighboring ves
sels was distinguishable,
London, Aug. 23. The ofllelnl state
ment from Horlln reiterating the claim
that a Hrltlsli battleship was struck
hy ii tnipcdn In tho recent North sea
fighting wns met with an emphatic de
nial ft urn tho Rrltlsh ndiuli alty.
Are you PAYING for efficiency, und
getting Incompetency' It will cost you
a great deal In tlie cud, Advortlau fur
a competent wurkur.
TWO WORKMEN KILLED
WHEN TENEMENT FALLS
New Yotk, Aug. 23, Two workmen
were killed in-day and a score severely
injured, several probably fatally, as the
result of the collapse of a llvo-story
brink tenement minor construction in
the Jfronv. Seiiirh of the ruins for six
workmen ropoltcu mla.ilug levealed no
bodies.
N. Y. SAVINGS BANKS
RESOURCES INCREASE
Albany, Aug Hcsources of savings
banks In New York Statu Incieasod ?L'2,-to.-.,7M
to a to'11' "f J-V'WR.Dm during
the year nndlne Jlll' "''cording to a
lepnrt made t"-'l.v !' Kugeno Lamb
Richards. Hlate superintendent of hank
nv amount duo depositors Inoiuised
f:il7U,i;o2 and ''' t"'"1" Jl.W.'-TJ.MI.
The' number of open aceountti Increased
IT SPt The uiu"111" deposited duihig
the year wn H""-01 7'u " Knl "f W.
ir.imi while Hi'1 '"""""t withdrawn was
D..MI5,72S h de. rcaso of I2..'2I. -il Tho
dividends ciclltcl uud pad wcro JOO,
010,020 an iiicicubo ol J...W.3H,
Insulting Cnsunlllrs Were flit I Civilian
nnd .) Military Men.
London, Aug. 23. Major Rnlrd, rep
resentative of tho norial board In tho
Iiouso of Commons, replying Inst night
to criticism of the air defenses during
tho recent Zeppelin raids, announced
that since the war began the entente ,
nllles had accounted for 3.1 Zeppelins,
"There have been 31 raids on Ihig
land," said Major Halrd, "In 10 of which !
no casualties weio suffered, while in
the remainder the number of killed was :
331 civilians nnd 50 military men. No
body can say that these casualties, de
plorable as they are, will havo any In-
niiencn on the conduct of tho war, pro- ,
vided the honorable members of the
House do not give utterance to such
have got all we need; wo are non
aggressive; we are not seeking trouble;
we are not trying to exploit anybody.
We simply want to go ahead in our
peaceful pursuit of our Ideals and have
prosperity.
"Hut that does not mean that our
rights are to bo Ignoted, thai we arc
to bo lacking in the protection to those
rights that are known to pertain to
American citizens. Our conduct In
Mexico in falling to protect the rights
of our citizens down thero cut down
our International prestige, I should
say practically one-half. It Is a very
serious thing for a nation to be known
as willing to forego those primnry
obligations of maintaining the rights
of Its citizens which every nation
has."
PACIFIST NORMAN
ANGELL NOT IN JAIL
Story of Ills Confinement .Mnde Out of
Whole Cloth.
London, Aug. 23. The Overseas
News agency report that Norman An
Bell, the pacifist, wns sentenced to IS
months' Imprisonment nt hard labor
for declining to Jake part in Hie war
was made out of whole cloth. Angell Is
42 years of age, and consequently not
llahlo to military service. At present
lie la f-int llvliirr n t his rooms in the
Ill-chosen statements as have been j TempIo ,ml n occasionally calls there
made In tho House of Commons to- ' hp correspondence.
,',pr',t' I One of Mr. Angoll's colleagues In the
"Members of tho House of Commons lTn(in of DPll)ocrut0 Control, K. U.
ought to be leaders of the people. They Ml,rp)i jllJit I)0W particularly hot
should encourngo the people, not create
panic. Lord French has a very com
plete system of air defense, and It Is
being improved dally, whllo tho Rrlt
lsh flying corps has a record superior
to nny other nation."
water. Moiel tuny no reineninereri in
America as secietary of the Congo Re
form association. His attitude lowaid
the war has provoked charges 111 sev
eral riiiaiteis that ho is a pro-German
and the Mninlng Post and the Dally
llsprcss particularly called on tho gov
ernment to take steps ngalpst him.
The authorities declined to budge, nnd
all tho satisfaction tho newspapei.i
mentioned got was such as was obtain
Russia is planning construction of :2i,oin
miles of railroad and a system of ship
emails ii ii 'i 1 1 la I til anywhere in tho world.
On January 1. I!d:i, thero weio IfiA'M miles
of railroad open to naillc, Including Rim ,'.,i from printing long letters which
miles used exclusively for railroad seivli'o j .Mmel wrote them and from controvort
rcipiti cmeiits. New lines aio to connect 1 1,1(; arguments ho employed.
with trunk Hues to Siberia, central Asia .
and White sea and with new railway to j s ,n, M).,,, ,,,. V(, i,oon introduced
be built 1,101 miles to Heval on the Ujiltto. ()) ,t(,rll)i ,, ,11uUm. ww ,OK11latlons nso
iH restricted to l.Til ounces per month.
In lecognltlun of his sinking 100 vessels pHO ,,f soft soap Is prohibited. Penalty of
of entente allies, Capi. Walter Forstniann
coinmaniler of u Gorman suluiiarlno. lias
been given the order of Pour le Merlin by
tho Geiinnn Ihiiperor, says a Herlln des
patch, ships sunk bv him, Including wur
vessels, iiggicKiiteil JiIO.ikX) tons and their
total wiluo Is estimated nt JWO.oOO.Ooo utcr-
term of Impi Isonnicnt Is piovlded for vio
lation of soap ticket regulations,
Finding a position Is a selling prnh
lem of finding u buyer of what you are
aide to do, Selling-problems niq ad
vertising pioblems, tVro you solving
youra In this way?
Lorenzo Dnvrson, Aged 12, of Wnlllne
ford, the Icttm.
Rutland. Aug. 23. Recause he over
estimated his ability as a swimmer
Lorenzo Dawson of Wallingford. age
12 years, was drowned at 0:30 o'clock
tills morning in the mill pond in Otter
creek used in connection with tl.e
American Fork and Hoe company plant.
The boy had been fishing with otlv r
children and began to boast that 1 e
could swim to a tiny Island separatrd
from tho shore by 15 feet of water, in
the center of which the depth Is 32
feet. Although little experienced in
tho water ho put on a bathing su t
and started out, progressing well tint 1
he attempted to give an exhibition i f
swimming on his hack. Then he san.i.
Ho rose to the surface two or thp o
times and called for help, but dlsa -peared
before the other children reco -ored
sufficiently from their fright lo
summon help.
A half dozen boats were manned by
men from tho factory nnd with grap
pling Irons they attempted rescue, but
an undercurrent had carried the body
away and It was not recovered until
two hours later when tho gate was
opened nnd tho water lot out of the
dam.
A call was sent to the Rutland hos
pital for a lungmntor and the apparatus
was in Wallingford over an hour be
fore the body wns found. Dr. J. It.
Miller and Dr. W. K. Stewart of Wal
lingford worked over tho body, but
life was extinct.
Tho father of the dead boy is an
employe of the Wallingford Manufac
turing cnuipnny. Tho parents havt
four other boys nnd a girl.
STATE GRANGE
FIELD DAI
Manchester. Aug. 23. Thero was one
disappointing feature to the State Orange
field day here to-day and that wns thr
attendance. Scarcely more than live
hundred people wcro present to hear the
speeches of Thomas Ilrarllee, director of
the State university extension srlvoe,
John W. Titcotnb, State fish and gams
commissioner, K. S. Hrlghnm, State com
missioner of agriculture, Austin F.
1 1 awes, Slate forester, and Charles M.
Gardner, a national Grange official. W,
N. Cady of Middlehury, master ot tht
State Grange, presided.
In the afternoon there was a program
of field sports, a ball game and somr
very Interesting hurdle work by horses
from the stable of Mrs. William Rittr
of Washington, D. C , a summer residont
of Manchester The ball game was be
tween Manchester and Arlington nnd
was won by the latter by the score of
3 to 5. The score by innings:
Innings ....12316578 3 R H H
Arlington ..0 0 5 0,0 0 2 0 20 10 1
Manchester .1 I o o 0 0 o l 2 5 9 3
Hatterles Riley and Dauphin, Black
flier, Fields and Hurns.
TANGO MUST GO;
WALTZ RETURNS
Chicago, Aug. 2.' Tho old fashioned,
dreamy waltz will supplant tho ncrobatlo
taiiRO In the hall rooms of tho nation. If
tho National Association of Dancing
Masters has any inlluence In convention
hero the dancing professors decreed that)
the tango must go. The waltz, the ona
step and tho fox trot will bo tho fashion
nldo favorites tills season.
Now York American says telephonlr!
communication between New York and
Havana, Cuba, may soon bo a fact Tel
ephone wires, It is understood, will he Inld
hi a cable to ho sunk belwcon Key West
and Havana.
