--f..i..iJ- a. -,. L ,,-,,- ,
3
V. i
PERRYSBURG JOURNAL
VOL.LXIV-ED. L. BLUE, Publisher.
PERRYSBURG, WOOD CO., 0., THURSDAY. AUGUST 24, 1010.
$1.00 IN ADVANCE-NO. 27
PERRYSBURG CENTENNIAL PROGRAMME
The. Pageant will form on Indiana Avenue, right resting on Elm street, and will consist of
Four Divisions.
RIVER CLAIMS BOY
sJ&fc...
Dr.
Ed. Blue, D. R. Acklin and Robert C. Pew, Aides.
This Division will consist of floats representing the various events of Historical interest
and importance connected with the growth of the village, an explanation of which will be given in
the Synopsis.
. SECOND DIVISION I
: "' Charles L. Maddy, Sr., Marshal.
I '"$$r Charles P. Champney, Aide.
In this Division will appear the various Churches and Fraternal organizations of the village,
and the position in line will be given according to seniority.
THIRD DIVISION
i ., Graham B. Lownsbury, Marshal.
'"" R. R. Hartshorn and Hilton Maddy, Aides.
The various business and manufacturing interests of the village will be represented in this
Division and their positions will be assigned by lot.
FOURTH DIVISION
, George Emmerich, Marshal.
Robert Hartshorn, Aide.
This Division will be made up of automobiles and every automobile owner is requested to
participate. Assemble on Indiana avenue, at Lutheran church and form under direction of the
Marshal.
" SYNOPSIS OF HISTORICAL PAGEANT
The Historical Pageant will be made up of Floats and displays to indicate the prominent
features of Perrysburg's historical past, and will appear in the parade in the following order:
THE BLOCK HOUSE
The period of defense and the events which lead up to the laying out of the village of
Perrysburg, is represented by a Block House defended by American soldiers of that period.
Around and about are the British and Indians against whose attacks this territory was protected.
FUR TRADING
The next period 181G-182G is represented by a Float illustrating the trade with the Indian
tribes. This "Float represents a party of Indians coming down the Maumee river with a load of furs
to the tradhg post at Perrysburg.
THE PRAIRIE SCHOONER
iii the next period is a representation of the arrival of the settler in the Prairie Schooner.
He is accompanied by his family and has come to make his home in the valley of the Maumee
the new village of Perrysburg.
THE PIONEER HOME
. The next period shows the Home of the Pioneer the little Log Cabin. From this humble
beginning has come the beautiful village of Perrysburg, with its charming homes in a valley of
peace and plenty. Here will also appear the "Circuit Rider" who ministered to the spiritual welfare.
1846-1856
In this period (18'1G-1856) we are reminded of the terrible scourge of Cholera and the com
ing of the D. & M. R. R., marking an era of early railway transportation and the connection of
Perrysburg with the outside world. '
The "legend" of the Indian Bell will be depicted by a Float illustrating the old story of this
famous bell which surmounted the old Exchange Hotel.
THE CALL TO ARMS
In the next decade (1856-1866) is represented the departure of Perrysburg's quota of pat
riotic citizens to the Union Army. This will recall to the minds of the -veterans and town's people
the stirring days of the War of the Rebellion.
VARIOUS IMPORTANT EVENTS
In the days following the War 1866-1876 is depicted the "loss of our Court House," in
which we surrendered to Bowling Green one of Perrysburg's most important features. Here will
also be shown a Flot representing what was then a very familiar object to be seen on our streets
at that period.
AGRICULTURAL SUPREMACY
Here follows a Float representing the high point reached in Agriculture by Perrysburg
township, as compared with all other sections of the State, being the result of the tireless efforts
of the Farmers of this period.
During the next periods are shown the coming' of Natural Gas, the Way Library, Maumee
Valley Electric Railway, the Telephone, Street Improvement, Water Works.
THE CIVIC ASSOCIATION' i
Then follws the Float of the Perrysburg Civic Association, which symbolizes the strength
and power of this organization in the upbuilding and improvement of Perrysburg. The columns il
lustrate the membership, whose united strength supports the Civic Association, which in turn
upholds a
BETTER PERRYSBURG
The Historical Division is concluded by a Float representing our
FUTURE PERRYSBURG
, All uniforms of soldiers arc true to the period represented.
The Pageant will move promptly at 1 :30 p. m., over the following line of march :
Forming on Indiana ave., will proceed west to Main street (Louisiana ave.) ; thence north on
Main to Front; west on Front to Pine; south on Pine to Second; east on Second to Hickory; north on
Hickory to Front; west on Front to Main; south on Main to Fifth and countermarch on Main to
Front, where the parade will disband.
The Programme for the afternoon will commence at 3 :30 p. m., at the Stage erected on the
north side of Front street opposite Hood Park, and will be as follows :
R. P. BARTON,
UNDERTAKER cpebrysburg,;i
Both Phones Main Twenty-seven
JOHN ZURFLUH
PRACTICAL
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELER
Dealer In
Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Spectacles.
906 Monroe St. Toledo, Ohio.
Near Michigan Street.
Special caro will bo taken with the
repair of all kinds of Watches, Clocks
and Jewelry. '
DR. B. KINSLEY
Office Hours: 8 to 11 a. m.; 1 to
6 p. m.
Office upstairs corner Second
PJUIBYSBUBG. OHIO
nd Main Streets,
i Plums MI 14
FIRST 'DIVISION
W. H. Rheinfrank, Grand Marshal
T.J. SULLIVAN
DENTIST
Ilcnfling Bldg. 310 Conant St
MAUMEE. OHIO
Reasonable Prices and Best Work
Guaranteed.
Office hours 8 to 12 a. m. and
1 to 5 p. m. Bell Phone.
FREDERICK C. AVERILL
ATTORNEY
AND COUNSELOR-AT-LAW
818 Spitzer Building
TOLEDO, OHIO
Kmi PIwm im
COMING BACK.
United Doctors Specialist Will
Again Be at Bowling Green,
Ohio, Thursday, September 7th,
Millican Hotel.
ONE DAY ONLY.
Hours 9 A. M. to 8 P. M.
Remarkable Success of These
Talented Physicians in the Treat
ment of Chronic Diseases.
Offer Services Free of Charge.
The United Doctors, licensed by
the State of Ohio, are experts in
tho treatment of diseases of the
blood, liver, stomuch, intestines,
skin, nerves, heart, spleen, kidneys
or bladder, diabetes, bed-wetting,
rheumatism, sciatica tape worm,
leg ulcers, appendicitis, gall stones,
goitre, piles, etc., without opera
tion, and arc too well known in this
locality to need further mention.
Call and seo them, it costs you
nothing. Laboratories, Cleveluud,
Ohio. Remember tho day and
place,
Fifteen Year Old Boy Drowns
Before Help Arrives.
Martin Stewart, fifteen, and
Morris Doyle, twelve, went to tho
river for a swim late Sunday after
noon. Doyle states that they were
wading out to see how far they
could go when Stewart stepped off
a ledge and sank. He was unable
to help the struggling boy so hur
ried up the bank for help.
Other young boys hurried to the
rescue and dove for the body at
the spot where he sank. The body
was found in tho bottom of the
river and brought ashore. Dr.
Bowers was summoned and every
effort possible to restore respira
tion was in A'ain.
Witzler's ambulance conveyed
the body to the home of the
parents, Mr. and Mrs. Alex Stew
art, east of Perrysburg.
Funeral services will be held at
St. Rose church in Perrysburg
"Wednesday morning at 9 o'clock.
Interment in St. Rose cemetery.
Several Perrysburg Churches.
Services for Next Sunday in
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 9:30 a. m.
Lesson subject, "Journeying To
ward Jerusalem." Acts 20:1G-3S.
"W. II. Rose, superintendent. Men's
Bible Class at this hour. All cor
dially welcome.
Morning worship and sermon at
10:30. Dr. Pheley will preach.
There will be no evening service.
Senior Christian Endeavor
meeting at 6:30. Topic, "Careless
ness versus Thoughtfulness." Ileb.
2:1-7. Leader, Russell Compton.
We are having most interesting
meetings. All invited to attend.
There will be no service Thurs
day evening on account of the
Centennial Celebration.
There will be no choir practice
this week.
Methodist Episcopal Church.
Rev. Daniel Carter, D. D., Pastor.
Services Sunday, Aug. 27, 191G.
Sunday School 9:00 a. m.
Public Worship 10:30 a. m.
Public Worship 0:00 p. m.
Sermon Subjects,
"The Overcomcrs"
"Lifes True Motive."
Midweek prayer meeting Thurs
day evening 7:30 p. m.
Perrysburg, My Perrysburg!
A beauteous spot thou art indeed,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg !
By nature never left to need,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg !
Tho broad Maumee with rustling
reed,
The siirhinsr trees so softlv kovod
Peace, plenty and repose, indeed,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg !
Thy stalwart sous arc proud of
you,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg !
Thy virtues many, thy faults are
few,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg!
The hundred years, how quick
they flow
A hundred more with much to do,
Vou'll never falter, always true,
Perrysburg, my Perrysburg !
The above words are sung to the
air, "Maryland, My Maryland,"
and were written by Mr. Clarence
Eberly, formerly of Perrysburg,
but now a Tolclo busihess man,
whose love for the old homo town
is indicated by the word? of this
Perrysburg song.
Every reader should cut out th
song, bring it along and assist in
singing in the afternoon program.
(Continued on Eighth Pago,)
Guy Kauffman Committed Suicide
by Drowning.
The body of Guy Kauffman, 3S,
was found in an abandoned quar
ry on the Mrs. Amanda Dennis
farm Saturday night by John
Myers, a farmer, who was attract
ed to tho .scene by the barking of
his dog. Tho body was badly de
eomposed and had been in the
water for six or seven days. It was
floating on the surface when dis
covered. Coroner Spitler pronounced it
an intentional death as he had
tried twice before to commit sui
cide. The man was committed to
the Toledo State Hospital from
Mansfield, O., two years ago and
escaped from the authorities on
August 10th. How the demented
man got to the scene of the quarry
is not known His wife and child
accompanied the remains to
Luckey, where the body was pre
pared for burial. Sentinel.
CARNIVAL FEATURE
Villa's Band Direct from the Mex
ican Border.
At the Carnival in the evening
Villa's band will appear on Louisi
ana avenue. By great effort the
artists have become familiar witli
some American rag. The music of
tins band has a very barbaric
flavor as they have played at most
of the executions staged by Fran
cisco Villa in Mexico. If neces
sary, to bring the artistic tempera
ment of the individual members
up to the proper pitch, a few of
the leading citizens will be led out
and shot. Volunteers will be asked
for Thursday evening.
The line-up :
Eduardo Morales First' Cornet
Manuel Gomez Second Cornet
Antonio Arrizaga Trombone
Fredrico Morena ....: Alto
Theodoso Hermano Flute
Colorado Blanco Piccolo
Antonio Cayun First Base
Francisco Ejercito Second Base
Senorita Goldstein Shortstop
Contributions will be demanded
in the usual Mexican manner. By
the aid of Auchilla Grande the in
dividual members of the band will
pass through whatever part of the
anatomy ot the napless bystander
that is handy unless the victim
comes through, with at least five
dollars no Mexican money ac
cepted. Woman loves a clear, rosy complex
ion. Burdock Blood Bitters is splendid
for purifying tho blood, clearing the
skin, restoring sound 'digestion. All
druggists sell it. Price 1.00.
PHoHslfcuBifte ,
YOUNG people, this is meant for you. Don't laugh at fate. Prepare
now for the "rainy day," when life is not all rosy sunshine. Save
your pennies now. WORK, WORK, WORK! SAVE, SAVE,
SAVE! This picture may change your whole life if you give it
EARNEST THOUGHT for just five minutes. Concentrate your mind
on it. Suppose you RESOLVE to be one of the few who will REALLY
DO THIS. Then
OPEN AN ACCOUNT WITH US.
Make OUR bank YOUR bank.
We pay 4 per cent interest on Certificates of Deposit.
lj? (Hximm lankutg (Emttjratuj
PERRYSBURG. OHIO.
TOK OLDUST DANK IN WOOD COUNTY , r,
Concerning Nothing Very Serious
But Worthy of Thought.
If this weather continues much
longer wo will none of us have
much fear of that other hot place
we've heard about.
Are you a Perrysburg booster or
a chronic knocker? What arc you
doing to make a Better Perrys
burg? Although the Prohibition lead
ers predict a dry President in five
years, he is not necessarily a far
sighted citizen who starts tanking
up now at the prospect of drought.
Judging by the way it's always
pressing, the Russian Avar machine
must bo nu electric iron.
To be a candidate for office is
an endurable thought, but to run
or even fox-trot for it in summer
weather would be a frightful un
dertaking. Charles E. Hughes, criticising
the appointment by President Wil
son of Dr. Jones, to be the head of
tho Coast Survey, said that while
he was an excellent veterinary
surgeon, that he had no knowledge
of Const Survey work and his an-
pointment was purely political.
Whereupon tho Democratic ad
ministration comes back with the
delicious response thar, "Dr. Jones
was never a veterinary surgeon. He
is a gentleman of education and re
finement." Mr. Hughes' point still
stands, and besides the veterinary
surgeons all over the country are
giving three rousing cheers for Wil
sonbut not so loud that you can
hear them.
President Wilson is a minority
President. He was elected in 1912
because tho Republican party was
hopelessly divided. Now the Pro
gressives have returned. The Re
publican nart.v has uuifiod itself
and is again the majority party.
To add to Wilson's weakness the
women voters of the country are de
claring against Jam, making sure
his defeat in the twelve western
states where they have the suffrage.
ii looics as tliougli lie will have only
the Solid South in the electoral col
lege.
Liver Trouble.
"I am bothered with liver trouble
about twice a year," writes Joe Dig-
man, Webster City, Iowa. "I have
pains in my side and back and an
awful soreness in my stomach. I heard
of Chamberlain's Tablets and tried
them. By the time" I had used half a
bottle of them I was feeling fine and
had no signs of pain." Obtainable
everyhere.
g
f
