State Historical Coc.
Taney County Republican
hi.
No. 41
FORSYTH, MISSOUK1, THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916.
Six Pagp.
Gardner Land Bank Fallacy
Th, C-r.iiier Lmd Rank Bill is
provide, and cannot b to rmde provide
i tithe of the things its cffio-seekiog
f hey !t 'm - tart to finish It is lull of advm-ates H'-tend it does. It will
1'iophoL's entirely s'-rrounrte d bv lang-nnt give the farm owners an unlimited
PROGRAM
tiae. The loophoh-s do not have to
be looked for. They thrust therosol-v-s
oq the re ider of the biil in alnvs?
rvrry sentence. The language is
clii- flv notable for its ambiguity, and
cci fl ct of meaning possible from di(
ffrm points cf view. There h noth
ing es;iecial'y surprising in the fact
that the measure is thus faulty when it
is consirl.Ti-d thu the author if the
1 ill is rti'i. her a farmer nor a banker,
yet he his uncH-rUken 'o provide a
banking law of especial importance to,
and for the especial benefit of, the far
mers. The one thing that is in evi
dence in every line of the bid is that
it is, and was especially designed to be,
a "bait for gudgeons." It is legislation
especially formulated and promulgated
supply of c.ish at ii.finitesimal cost.
It proposes to loao money to land own
as at 4 3 m-r cent, and at the same
time pnviVs that the rate cf interest
shall not be higher than 6 per cent.
That is a :i"rimen contradiction. It
proposes to "crea'e a body corpira e
and politic," and then piovkies that
state officers, including the governor,
hall be the officers, and con
trolling authorities. This, if it
niears anything, means that the state
if Missouri shall go into the private
ba-.kiog business in opposhion to all
other banking interests. Think
that over in all its fullness of idiocy.
Suppose a la should be proposed
compelling not authorizing, but Com'
pelling the sMe to go into the busi
Taney County
School Board
AND
to catch the farmer vote. In this it is nf5S manufacturing coffias and sup-
of a piece with much ol the same sort
of legislation that has be n proposed,
proj 'del and sometimes actually writ
ten into the law by men or co'eries of
men who play politics oa the
basic idea that all men and especially
the farmers are fools, or can be made
foils of by a little sop in the shape ol
a propi std money remedy fir ihrir ills,
fancied or actual.
The very best service that cru'.d be
rendered any number of farmers who,
through party affi iation or for any other
reason, are disposed to cast their votes
for the author of the bill, would be to
familiarize them with the weVicnes,
idiosyncrasies, and nonsensical provis
ions of the measure. The land Bank
is weak and futile in itself, but it might
be allowed to go at that and be de
pended upon to defeat itself through
nonfruition. When it is forced, or
tried to be forced, into the shape of an
amendment of the state constitution,
as is proposed, it becomes bad and
dangerous in so many respects that it
thould be clubbed to death by that
complete exposure that can come only
through making the particular class at
vhom it is chiefly directed, as fully ac
quainted as possible with its bad fea
tures. It is different only in detail
from half a hundred other propositions
which demagogues cr uninformed per
sons have inflicted or tried to inflict on
the country such, for instance, as the
idea of issuing bonds or securities, un
der one name or another, on farmers'
crops, either in the barns or still grow
ing in the fields; on mechanics' tools
or materials; on live stock on the range
or in the pasture. It is simply another
phase, and a worse one of the so-called
greenback nonsense It is almost
as bad as the idea I once heard advan
ced by Sam Carey, of Ohio, that the gov
roent issue irredeemable or flat money
and have that money made of leather,
so it wouldn't wear out.
Of course there is room for unlimit
ed argument in contravention of what 1'
bave just said, but when all argument
is exhausted on details, the basic false
idea still remains that the Gardner
Land Bank Bill is fallacious in its every
principle; and it is nonsensical in its
provisions. It is merely a tub tossed
to a whale. The measure as passed
by the Forty-eighth General Assembly
in fact is a little better than a dead
letter, since by its very provisions it
renders itself inoperative, and robs it
ol its capacity for doing harm. The
harm lies in the effort and the threat to
galvanize it into some semblance of
life by resort to the referendem system
for a constitutional amendment. There
Is no danger of any such amendment
being adopted if the voters in the
country and small towns are fully in
formed as to the iniquities of the
measure. If, however, the informa
tion vouchsafed the farmers is allowed
to rest on misleading and false declar
ations put forth in in the shape of ar
gumentall couched in terms intend
ed to make the farmer believe that un
der the law he can get all the money
he wants for any length of time that
suits him at a merely nominal rate of
interest, unthinking and uninformed
persons might easily be deceived to
their own undoing.
plying the people at a fixed price,
ilhout regard to the law ol supply
and demand!
The law orders the legislature to ap
propriate "one million dollars out ol
money in the treasury" of the slate as
a working cmitil. With state finances
in thf ir present condition, where in the
wor d is that million dollars coming
Iron.? "Why, out of the treasury."
says the support r ( f the bill. Can
legislation even of the common or
Gatdner variety, get blood rut of a
uri.ii? Presumably the apprcpria
;ion is to take precedence of all other
pprop Utions, since the bill does not
say it shall come from "money not
otherwise appropriated " Yet, the
constitution of Missouri provides for
the order in which appropriations shall
be made and beco.ne a.vA able.
Right There Is One Ol The Places
Where Constitutional Amendment
Danger Lies.
So on, all the way through, the bill
it is full of these faults acd false pre
tenses. On the initial working capi
tal of a single million dollars the bill
provides for an issue of $40,000,000
in bonds "on notes and deeds of trust."
Supposedly this means the notes of
the deluded farmers, but the bill does
not say so, The manager May deter
mine, mine from time to time, the
length bonds shall run, and upon what
method thy may be recalled." What
tremendous power to place in the
hands of a single manl No bank,
state or national, gives any one man
any such power over its resources.
These are but specimens of fully a
hundred inconsistencies and incongrui
ties in the measure. The arguments
put forth by Mr. Gardner and his lieu
tenants in advocacy of the law or even
worse than the law itself. They are
contradictory and confusing in the ex
treme, and are apparently intended to
be so. There seems to be but one
purpose in view to catch the farmer
vote by treating the man of the fields
as though he were an idiot, unable to
think, and can be caught by the veri
est chafl and chatter. I shall have
more to say later about both the bill
and the fallacious arguments advanced
in support of it. I have studied both
very carefully.
Meantime it is well to keep in view
the Big Facts: Gardner says, over
his owe signature: "My first and
greatest charge, if elected, would be
to make the Missouri State Land Bank
Act operative." This land bank bill,
then, must be taken as Gardner's
platform. The very best thing that
could be done for the entire state,
especially for the farming community,
and others, Gardner is trying to befool,
would be to see that they Fully Un
derstand this platform, and what Gard
ner proposes to do if he is made gov
ernor. If this is clearly unders cod,
there is no danger of Gardner ever be
coming governor. -The Censor.
In the New York market recently
there was t sale of nine cars of Julian
lemons and one car of similar fruit from
California. Evidently the Italian lem
on lobby got its money's worth when
it spent 1140,000 to induce the Dem
ocratic party to cat the duty on lemons.
If California lemon producers want any
consideration in tariff matters, let them
In tba first place the law will not raise that 1140,000 bid.
10:30
10:50
11:20
1200
1:30
1:40
T.-jO
3:00
3:10
3:33
4:15
8:00
8:00
8:15
8:30
8:45
9:00
10:00
12:00
Teachers' Meeting
To be Held at
Forsyth High School
September 8th and 9th, 1916
Friday Morning
Opening Exercises.
Devotional Rev. F. A. Mills
Enrollment bv Districts.
Short Gv-neral Discussion: "What Does Our School Need Most?"
Noou Intermission.
Friday afternoon
Song, Rev. F. A. Mills
Address, R. C. Ford
Explanation of Classification, 1 A, P, C and D Classes. 2 Al
ternation. 3 Daily Program. 4 Qjarterly Examinations.
5 Report Cards. 6 Records and Reports What, When
Made, Importance of. 7 Library Books Pupils R. C
Ciunty Superintend' nt
Recess.
Pr sent Day Needs and Opportunities of High School Training,. .
Prof. Truman E. Hayes
Central Discussion: "Should the Board Have Monthly Meet
ings, and Should the Teacher Attend? 2 What Should be
Done on Clean up Daj? 3 How to Get the Most Effective
Service from a Teacher. 4 How May the Teacher Render
the Most Effective Service to ihe School?
Agriculture Representative of State Agricultural College
Addrrss Representative cf Springfield State Normal School
Saturday Morning
Opening Exercises
School Managem-nt 1 When is a School Orderly? 2 What are
S me of the Conditions That go to Make an Orderly School?
A Disorderlj S hool? Vernon James
Importance rl S'uly Period Teaching How to Study
Prof. F. E. Bicknell
Hygiene, Dr. F. V. Baldwin
Free Tixt B.wks How to Get Them; Care of. State Aid Con
ditions to be Met; How to Make Application. District
Plats Need of. Stale Approved R'jral Sohools.
Plans for the Present Year 1 Shall We Attend the South-West
State Teachers' Association or Hold the County Convention?
2 Testing Results. 3 Local Meetings. 4 Reading Circle
(Fundamentals in Methods, and Essays for College English)
5 County Spelling Contest. 6 Final Examination and Grad
uation of 8th Grade Pupi'j.
Remarks to Teachers and Board Members
The School Laws require teachers to attend a two day plan meeting each
year in order that all may get in touch with the d fnite plans for the school
year. This will be a very important meeting, as the above program indicates.
The School Board Convention Law makes it a duty of Presidents and
Clerks of School Boards to meet in convention each year.
We have decided to hold the School B ard Convention and Teachers'
Meeting together both days, Friday and Saturday. School Boards should not
fail to have the schools dismiss (or Friday so Board Members and Teachers
may get the benefit of this joint meeting.
Board Members are allowed 11.50 per day and mileage one way. Two
members ore expected from each district, and if either the President or Clerk
cannot come, the Board should appoint one of the other members to attend.
The meeting will begin promptly at 10:30. Be present at the first ses
sion. You'll miss something good if you are late.
In many respects this will be the best meeting we have ever had, there
fore I trust that each district will be represented by the Teacher and Board
Members. Yours respectfully,
John w. Bennett,
County Superintendent
Viewing the management of our re
lations with Mexico at close range, and
and having personal knowledge of the
way the National Guard has been nan
led, a prominet guardsmen from New
York says that if the boys ever get
home again and get a chance to re
turn to private life, practically none of
them will ever be caught in a similar
predicament again. The sins of this
administration will rest upon the coun
try for rainy years to come.
Ther is a lot of difl.-rence between
"Too proud to fight" and "Millions for
defense but not one cent for tribute".
Fortunately most of the men and
women of America do not follow the
advice of President Wilson to shed
their words u they go. The prevail
ing characteristic of Americans is
steadfastness of purpose fulfillment of
promises and due regard for professions
of policy.
Mgi Lamm Will Make a Great Governor.
There has never been a nomination
for governor, by any party in any state,
more suitable than that of Judge Hen
ry Lamm, the Republican nominee for
governor of Missouri. He measures
up to the requirements of the office
from every point of view and by every
standard of fitness. He is the strong
est and best candidate the Republicans
could have selected. He will make
the best governor the people can elect.
As a candidate he presents a striking
contrast to what may be spoken of as
"the regular run of candidates." He
is a big man in every seuse of the
word, and a great man, with every
possible consideration for the true
meaning of the word great.
Seventy years old, he possesses the
wisdom that comes of long experience,
and at the same time his is the splen
did vigor of a virile man twenty years
younger. In fact, with his splendidly
proportioned six feet of stature and his
two hundred pounds of fine manhood,
he walks with the springy step of
man not yet beyond middle life. The
vigor of his mind, attested by the flash
of his eye and the clean cut expressions
of his ideas, is in keeping with his
physical perfections. His personality
aqd his strength of character are in
thorough keeping with his other atlri
butes. He will bring to the governor
ship all these qualities, and others,
that will go far to redeem the governor
ship of Missouri from the ignominy in
to which the high position has been
drawn by the pigmies who have been
allowed to crawl into it. If any man
in Missouri can restore to the gover
norship the honor and dignity of which
it has been despoiled, that man is Hen
ry Lamm. As a member of the legal
profession his abilities have brought
him renown. Aa a Jurist he has won
national celebrity by the soundness of
his Judgments and the brilliancy of his
written opinons. As a governor he
will be of even greater service to the
people, and add accordingly to his own
fame.
Judge Lamm entirely free from the
least taint of being a "machine made"
candidate. His nomination was made
by the rank and file of the Republican
party, and in selecting him the rank
ane file showed themselves in full ac
cord with the recognized party leaders
in all parts of the state. The oppo
sition to Judge Lamm before and at
the primaries was healthy and honest.
This is attested by the heartiness and
the sincerity within his own party have
come forward with congratulations
and assurances of earnest support.
Tnere has never before been selectsd
a candidate on whom the entire party
s unreservedly and unequivocally un
nited. There is seen evidence of the
splendid personality of the man, and
one of his many elements of strength
before the people.
In published statements Judge Lamm
has not hesitated to make plain declar
ations of what he considers tne neces
sary qualifications for a governor:
"He should be a a judge of men
and able to hold these administrative
officers he appoints, not in mere per
sonal fealty to himself and his ambition
(or additional and subsequent prefer
men', but fealty to high ideals and ef
ficient work in the bublic service."
Admitting some merit in ability to
speak in public and to write well, Judge
Lamm declares that "a government by
public speaking instead of by work is a
weak government. - - - If he
(the governor) had the divine gift of
doiog modestly his great work and for
getting about himself in his utter de
votion to his task; and getting praise,
notbv going about-personally and
claiming it, but by deserving it
If I know anything about the subject
at a!', I know what a good governor
should be."
"He should be a man of courage;
not a mere stubborn man, but a man
of convictions; of broad and far vision,
not a mere opportuuist, whipped about
by every passing fad oJ wind or doc
trine; a student of the constitution; a
Judge o( valid laws, revering the lath
en and thir work, bht with eyes open
looking to the front; (or I tell jou this
present day has its own problems. We
can remember and accept the lessons
of experience without accepting the
idea that the science of government is
a sealed book to which no new chap
ter can be added."
Judge Lamm's experience on the
bench will be of great value to him as
governor. His resiedence at Sedalia
and his long acquaintance with public
affairs have familiarized him with con
ditions in the state and equipped him
as few men are equipped for putting
his finger on the weak spots and the
faults of official administration. Judge
Lamm has concisely pointed out the
terrible financial condition into which
Democratic politicians have forced the
state; and declares himself in favor of
restraints on the power of the legislature
to make reckless appropriations and in
favor of the budget system. He points
out the deplorable abuse and misuse
of school moneys, and the utter failure
of the penitentiary managment. "The
state is in debt at least $2,000,000 on
over-due accounts," he says, and every
great interest connected with state gov
ernment is suffering, and the state it
self on the brink of dishonor. "Some
body is to blame for the condition of
the state," he says, "and the party in
powtr must be held responsible."
There is a remedy for all these ills,
and that Judge Lamm will find and ap
ply that remedy with promptness and
completeness when he assumes the
chief executive's chair, is assured by
the known caliber and character cf
the man. He abhors nepotism; con
demns unreservedly the system that
has so long maintained of ring rule and
partisan peculation in office and will
take the police out of politicn. He
favors changes in the state constitution,
but points out that to make beneficial
changes it will be necessary to first
rectify the unfair and dishonest gerry
mander that gives the Democratic pol
iticians such an indecent advantage.
He conderas the primary system in al
most the same language used in the
Censor on the subject. He stands
for honest and efficient government, in
the interest of all the people, and de
cries making the governorship the step
ping stone to further political prefer
mentso much so that he says that
after he has served the people as their
governor he will not again be an as
pirant for any office.
Altogether, the Republicans have
presented to the people the greatest
man nominated for governor of Missouri
by any party for almost or quite half a
century. The argument in favor of
his election is unanswerable, and there
is abundant reason to believe he will
carry the state by a majority, and that
his administration will be so fruitful of
benefit that the state will be placed
permanently in the Republican column.
Judge Lamm is In every way fit to run
for and be elected governor on the
ticket headed by Hughes for presiden t
His candidacy and his campaign will
be a source of strength to the entire
ticket, and his administration as gover
nor of Missouri will lift the state
out of its Slough of Despond and place
it in the proud position to which its
natural resources and attributes incon
testibly entitle it.
"How was such a man scccessful in
practicing imposture on the people of
New Jersey for two years and on the
people of all the slate for nearly four?"
No, that is not a quotation from Mr.
Hughes' speech of acceptance, nor
any other speech by Mr. Hughes. It
is an excerpt from a Post-Dispatch
editorial. I suppose it was intended
to be what our old friend Josh Billings
hsed to call "sarkasm." If so I ven
ture to suggest that the P.-D. imitate
the wisdom of Josh and lable its jokes.
It is positively dangerous for a paper
like the Pulitzerian Pass-Deb!oteh to
indulge in anything of the kind with
out the lable. People who know the
sheet's disposition to throw down any
body and every body il ,'there'i any
thing in it," are liable to think it was
foresworn its allegiance to Mr. Wilson.
Especially when it asks the very same
question that nine out of every ten
reasoning citizens are asking each oth
er every day about Wilson. The Censor.
