THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 137.
JUItHK, VKHMOXT. THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1910.
PRICE. OXE CEXT.
SERBS
REGAIN
A HILL
Assuming the Aggressive on
the Western End of the
Entente Allies' Front in
; the Balkans, They Cap
tured Position Northwest
of Ostrovo Lake, Which
Bulgarians Took in First
Encounter
ENTENTE CENTER
HOLDS OFF ATTACK
German Grenade Attack on
French in Soyecourt Wood
South of the River Somme
Is Said by Paris Report to
Have Met with No Success
Russians Press Turks in
Armenia
The allied offensive in the Balkans is
developing added impetus, to-day's ad
vices indicate. Paris reports the Serbi
ans on the aggressive along the western
end of the front, where they have
stormed and captured a hill three miles
northwest of Ostrovo lake, which was
taken by the Bulgarians in. their initial
drive on the allies' left flank.. The en
tente center has been subjected to at
tacks, but the French statement says
these were easily repulsed.
Activity on the Somme front in north
ern France seems to have slackened mo
mentarily, although artillery is still be
ing vigorously employed. The Germans
made a grenade attack on the French in
Soyecourt wood south of the river last
night, but, according to to-day's Paris
statement, they met with no success.
Constantinople reports Russian press
tire in considerable strength in southern
Turkish Armenia, but declares that the
Russians failed to advance and suffered
I'.eavy casualties, losing 3,000 men in the
Ognot sector alone. Petrograd announced
to-day the capture of two Turkish regi
tnents in the fighting on this front.
OVERESTIMATED HIS SKILL.
Wallingford Youth Tried to Swim IS
Feet and Drowned.
Rutland, Aug. 24. Because he over-e
timated his ability as a swimmer, Loren
zo Dawson of Wallingfurd, aged 12 years,
was drowned yesterday in the mill pond
In Otter creek used in connection with
the American Fork and Hoe company
plant. The boy hat been fl-diing with
other children and began to boast that
he could swim to a tiny island separated
from the shore by In feet of water, in
the center of which the depth, is 12 feet
Although little experienced In the water
he put on a bathing suit and started out.
progressing well until lie attempted to
give an exhibition
back. 1 hen he sa
surface two or three time and called for
help, but disappeared before the, other
children recovered sufficiently from their
fright to summon help
A half doaen boats were manned by
men from the factory and with grappling
irons they attempted rescue, but an tin
dercurrent had carried the body away
and it was not recovered until two hours
later when the gate was opened and the
water let out of the dam.
A call was sent to the Rutland hos
pital for a lungmotor and the apparatus
was in Wallingford over an hour be
fore the body was found. Dr. J. II. Mil
ler and Dr. Vv. K. Stewart of Wallingford
worked over the bodv, but life was ex
tinct.
The father of the dend hoy is an em
ploye of the Wallingford Manufacturing
company. The parents have four other
boys and a girl.
LINER
SLIPS
AWAY
nk. ' Hem"Stont'S S The German Interned Ship
WillehadLeft Boston Har-
bor Early This Morning,
Ostensibly for New Berth
at New London, Conn
Where Dockage Expenses
Are Not So Large
GOT CLEARANCE
PAPERS LAST NIGHT
MINORITY WILL FIGHT.
BOMBS LANDED
IN OPEN FIELDS
OF ENGLAND
.German Airships Made Another Raid on
the Coast Last Night But Did No
Damage, According to London
Official Statement.
London, Aug. 24. The east coast of
'England was visited again last night by
a hostile airship which dropped bombs
in fields but did no damage, the official
letatemenfc aays.
But Majority Accept Receiver for Bos
ton & Maine R. R.
Boston, Aug. 21. In answer to the pe
tition for a receiver tor the Boston &
Maine railroad, which was filed in the
United States district court Tuesday, the
road yesterday announced its consent to
an order appointing a recetver and
averred that the matters contained in
the bill of complaint are true. The an
swer was filed yesterday. That receiver
ship proceedings would be sharply con
tested, however, was Indicated in a state
ment issued last night bv Conrad W
Crooker, junior counsel for the Boston
Minority Stockholders' association claim
ing to represent 800 out of approximate
lv HOKM) shares, who said:
"We shall fight any such petition from
the drop of the hat to the last ditch
LThere is no excuse for the directors re
fusal to make gome effort to secure a re
newal of credit. The application for a re
ceiverehip and a receivership are two
quite different things and the proceedings
will give us a splendid opportunity to
present our case.
"The petition for a receivership, filled
by the Intercolonial Rubber company of
Jersey City, X. ,T., which holds $51,000
of the outstanding notes of the road,
stated that the company's credit is so
poor it cannot issue bonds at a reason
able price and that it is unable to raise
money on short term notes. The bill
claims that outstanding notes of the
company aggregating $1 3,30(1,0(10 cannot
be paid when they fall due, August 31.
The road's answer is brief:
"Xow comes the above named de
fendant ag for answer to the bill of
complaint," it says, "and respectfully
avers that the matters and things stated
in said bill of complaint are true. Where
fore, the defendant submits its rights to
the court and consents to an order ap
pointing ft receiver as prayed for.
Officials Denied Any Connec
tion Between Fact of Her
Departure and the Expect
ed Arrival of the Sub
mersible Bremen at New
London
Boston, Aug. 24. -The North German
Lloyd liner Willehad, which had been in
refuge here since the outbreak of the
war, slipped out of the harbor early this
morning, presumably for Xew London,
Conn., for which port she obtained clear
ance papers last night. The Willehad
made the trip by the way of the Cape
I od canal and was expected to reach
her destination late this afternoon.
Officials stated that the change was
made to reduce dockage charges and de
nied any connection between the Wille
had's movements and the expected ar
rival of the German merchant subma
rine Bremen.
The Willehad is making the voyage
under charter of the Kastern Forwarding
Co., the American agents of the company
operating the merchant submarine .serv
ice began by the Deutschland.
OPTIMISM
PREVALENT
As Pres. Wilson Expects a
Final Answer from the
Railroad Presidents
NEW PROPOSALS
FROM THE ROADS
MOTORED IN RAIN
TO GET ACQUAINTED
More Than 125 Barre People Went to
East Randolph Last Evening and
Were Pleasantly Received
By a Large Crowd.
Despite the rainfall of the early after
noon and the threat of more, a acore of
automobiles left Barre early last even
ing en route for Kaat Randolph, via the
illiamstown iriilf route, where the fifth
of the series of better acquaintance tours
conducted bv the Barre Hoard of Trade,
had its destination. The trip proved to
be one of the most enjoyable of the se
ries notwithstanding the overhead handi
cap of a rain which began to fall soon
after the 125 peopln and more had left
City square. The discomfort of the at
mosphere was counter balanced by the
fact that the dust had been completely
laid.
The scene of the evening's festivities
was laid on the broad street which com
prises the villager of East Randolph, the
Woodmen's hall being the particular
structure around which the Barre people
and thoe from Kast Randolph and the
neighboring territory gathered. The lit
tle village was aglow with light from
the new electric light plant which East
Randolph boasts as its exclusive own,
and the Woodmen's hall was bright with
luminosity. The cars were parked nex
to the hall and within a short time the
Administration officials expected a final M"r the hall were thrown open to
nswer from the railroad presidents to- """" '""u peop', "
I ..., 1 . .Hn,.n1, A
av nr tn.mnrrnur l'roi rinnr H Unn J"" '""" rimni ivwiu w :' mu lumio "
made no engagements in anticipation of I"1' J0" Pro?le w"o attended. An excel
receiving the executives
Are Said to Have Been Car
ried to Him by Commis
sioner Chambers
Washington, Aug. 24. Commissioner
Chambers of the federal board of medi
ation held an early cMference with Pres
ident Wilson to-day and then met the
representatives of the railroads. It was
expected that he carried some proposals
made to the president by a sub-commit
tee of the railroad executives last night.
GATES URGED
$10 PER MONTH
FOR SOLDIERS
Tells Vermont Legislature,
Convened in Special Ses
sion, That Vermont Ought
Also to Provide for De
pendents of Men Who Are
at Eagle Pass
LARGE ATTENDANCE'
WHEN SOLONS MET
1. iiianru in 1 .egihiiiture could no
have acted un- CN .tiduigly at so enrly
day. since time close touch ha
Whilo no definite information is forth
coming, the administration oflicials cx-
ressed optimism over the outlook. Both
the executives and the men held meet-
ngs to-day. Walter D. Uines, chairman
f the executive committee of the Santa
ee railroad, issued a statement to-day
Hacking President Wilson's plan and
characterizing it as preposterous. He de
clared the president apparently made up
is mind without a henring, As to con
lent supper was served by busy women
Who had helped to contribute the food
and they were assisted bv some of the
younger men of the village,
At the close of the supper Rev. D. D,
Johnson, pastor of the Baptist church at
Kast Randolph, arose and in a brief
speech extended the welcome of the
whole village to the Barre people, ex
pressing the sentiment that it was
Limited village that wan the host of the
evening. H. G. Woodruff responded for
he will force the im'ployers to Harre Board of Trade, telling of the
DEUTSCHLAND WAS
SLIGHTLY DAMAGED
ON RETURN TRIP
cessions,
give to buy otr labor from its illegal
course."
Reports that a settlement of the con
troversy was in, sight became current
when, after conferences with employes
and employers. Commissioner Chambers
discussed the strike situation with Presi
dent Wilson and made arrangements for
a group of railroad presidents to see Wil
son immediately. Hale Holden of the
pleasure it was to ride over such good
roads and to be welcomed so cordially by
the people of East Randolph.
That part of the evening's entertain
ment concluded, the crowd adjourned to
the outdoor air, where the rainfall had
decreased to such an extent that it was
possible to throw the views of Barre and
the granite industry on a ecreen attached
to a neighboring building. During the
presentation of the pictures the Barre
t),.,l;.,,.i. 1 1 imi.,,,i nf
the Baltimore A Ohio and R. S. Lovett of J."'1 f'".- had done in the hall
the TT Purine went, tn the White "rm '""?. J"M
went to
House before 1 o'clock and refused to
make any statement before seeing the
president.
After the conference, which was brief.
it was said that the outlook was more
hopeful, if anything." President Wilson
is said to have sent for the executives to
acquaint them with the program made
by him in dealing with the problems sug
gested at the previous conference.
established on the piazza of
Sprague & Gilford's new store just across
the street from the Woodmen's hall, a
band platform in the open air not being
found feasible under the atmospheric
conditions then existing. The Barre
party returned home at a late hour.
BULLET FROM AIRGUN
Captain Paul Koenig Has Been Sum
moned Before Emperor, William to
Tell of His Voyage Across
the Atlantic.
WILSON CRITICIZED.
BAVARIAN KING
HAS APOPLEXY
According to Switzerland Report Re
ceived in Paris Condition of King
Ludwig III is Grave.
Pari, Aug. 24. King Ludwig III of
Bavaria, who is 71 years of age, has been
stricken with apoplexy and his condition
is grave, according to a report from
Switzerland, says a Homes dispatch to
Petit Parisien.
CLAIM ENTENTE
FORCES FLED
Bulgarians Report That Their Troops
Were Successful Along the Struma
Front and Captured Large
Quantity of Munitions.
Berlin, via wireless, Aug. 21. The de
feat of the entente forces along the
Struma river on the Macedonian front in
northeastern Greece is announced by tho
Bulgarian war office in a statement is
sued yesterday. A Sofia statement ssys
the entente forcea took flight, leaving the
ground covered with dead and a large
quantity of ammunition and supplies
whii-n were taken by the Bulgarians.
German Roman Catholic Society Adopted
Resolution.
New York, Aug. 24. President Wilson
was criticized last night in 'a resolution
passed at the closing season here of the
German Roman Catholic Central Verein
for having "preferred charges" in his
message to Congress "against a part of
our citizenship, who theretofore enjoyed
the proud distinction of unquestioned
loyalty and patriotism." Action on the
resolution was taken only after there
nad been a heated debate on the ques
tion of the propriety of a religious or
ganization "entering into political fields."
The resolution, presented by a com
mittee, headed by Joseph Matt of St.
Paul, was as follows:
"Without precedent in the history of
our country, we find the president of the
United States publicly in his ofiicial
message preferring charges against a
part of our citizenship, who theretofore
enjoyed the proud distinction of unques
tioned loyalty and patriotism.
""We regret this utterance and deplore
its effects, especially in view of its gen
eral character, without substantiating
tacts, as such utterances coming from
such high source are calculated to foster
unfounded suspicion and mistrust of a
large element of our American people
and impeeril the consummation of a pro
gram of social efficiency in our country."
London, Aug. 24. Reports of the re
turn of the German submarine Dautaeh
land from the united States was corro
borated in a telegtam received at Am
sterdam from Bremen and forwarded by
the Reuters correspondent. According to
this information the Deutschland re
turned as she went, bv way of the Xorth
sea, covering 4.200 miles.
The Deutschland was slightly dam
aged, according to an Exchange Tele
graph company report from The Hague,
whieh also says that tho submarine Bre
men departed for America a week ago.
after her owners had received word of
the progress 'being made by the Deutsch
land on her return voyage.
Captain Paul Koenig of the Deutsch
land is being feted as a national hero and
has been summoned to Emperor Wil
liams' headquarters to report on his voy
age.
DEUTSCHLAND RESTS
AT GERMAN PIER
VILLA PRESTIGE GONE.
GERMAN BLOODSHED
HEAVY IX ATTACK
Strong Effort to Recapture Ground Near
Guillemont Failed, According to
the British Statement,
London. Aug. 24. On the Somme front
in the neighborhood of Guillemont, the
German last n:ght launched a strong at
tack in an effort to regain lost ground.
The official statement says the attaok
was repulsed after a severe etniggle in
wh;ch the tlrmM sustained heavy
Jotrea,
Pershing Reports That He Can Never Be
Serious Factor Again.
Washington, D. C, Aug. 24. There
were two developments yesterday in the
Mexican situation. Secretary Lansing
and Eliseo Arrendondo, Mexican ambas
sador designate, tentatively agreed that
the joint commission to discuss border
I problems should meet at some place on
the ew England coa.-t during the first
week in September. Brigadier-tieneral
Pershing transmitted a report saying the
general opinion was that "Villa's pres
tige is gone and that he can never again
become a serious factor in Mexican af
fairs." Supporting as it does General Fnn
ston's recent recommendation for the
withdrawal of the expeditionary force in
Mexico, it is believed tw-neral Pershing's
report makes it certain that the Ameri
can commissioners win agree promptly
to the suggestions of their Mexican con
feree for the early recall of the troop.
Mr. Arredondo called at tie depart
ment to receive formal notification that
the American commissioners had been se
lected and were ready to meet the Mex
ican members as soon as the time and
place could be arranged. Both the em
bassy and the department were in com
munication with Mexico City last night
in regard to the fixinj of a Cate for be
ginning tie ecsMona.
Semi-Official Statement Tells of the Ar
rival of the Submersible at the
Mouth of the Weser Aug 23.
Bulletin Berlin, Aug. 24, (by wireless
to Sayville, X. Y.) The merchant sub
submarine Deutschland arrived at the
mouth of the Weser on August 23, ac
cording to the Overseas News agency.
The agency says that the Deutschland
arrived on the afternoon of August 23
and anchored before the river. All on
board were well.
MANY PLANS DISCUSSED.
But Barre City Fathers Didn't Come to
Anything Definite.
Washington and South Main streets
were paved with plans and cemented
with promises again last evening when
the city council met in special session.
Also, Jail branch was spanned with a
' I I..1J. 1 . ' 1 J J 1
near leading to a tragic climax on Nelson " ""'? "uu wums u
street, around noon tn-dav when Earl R. I perfectly good votes were wasted on the
Lewis, the little son of Ottie W. Lewis. Pr0Ps to equip the water department
was hit in the head by a shot from a
pu
Lad
borhood
paid no attention
KIjAfw-f hAira r run
Hurrvimr home voumr Lewis told of new treet 8r to id on thorough
Struck Nelson Street Boy on Back of the
Neck.
Careless handling of air rifles came
Third Extraordinary Session
of the Vermont Legisla
ture to Meet Exigencies
Arising from the Military
Duty of Her Sons Came
Together at Montpelier
To-day
with another auto truck.
an said to have been discharged by Ben ? Montpelier, general manager of tl
adrie, another youth living in the neigh- (I!8rre 4 Montpelier Traction & Pow,
rhood. Plavniates of the Lewis bov S" wa there t0 ,the cwunlo.rs
to hie injury until le company wouia ao or eo ;uian t ao
in down hw neck. the matt,,r lf providing rails wherevi
what had happened and Dr. J. A. Wark
was called to the house. He found a
rather deep wound just. Back of the left
ear, where the shot ':ad ploughed a fur
row under the scalp. The little fellow
suffered considerably from loss of blood,
but no untoward development are ex
pected
fares traversed by the street railroad
Mr. Larrabee said he would confer on
the requests for rails with other mem
bers of the company and communicate
with the council.
If winter wasn't just around the cor
ner it would look a good deal as though
the bridge, paving and the cement high
Police headquarter was notified of the w'"v wer? al1 g8 through in 1916.
1 I D . . . i -... iL. .... -: l ... . 1
shooting and Officer J. S. Mnrley went
to Nelson street to investigate. What
people in that vicinity told him about
promiscuous shooting with the air rifles
indicated that the casualty list, of one is
all out of proportion to the amount of
shooting that has been done. The rifles
are not lacking in power and residents
have been muched annoyed by having
bullets buried in their front doors and
window sashes.
WOMAN SENTENCED
Mrs.
Enrichetta Ambrosini Given Five
. Months for Selling.
But few of the councilmen seem to be
lieve that the work can bo finished be
fore frost time and eo the action taken
last night is more in the nature of prep
aration. Alderman Healy moved that the
street committee be, instructed to take
such steps as it may deem necessary to
lay the paving and bridge the Jail this
fall, the motion earned and the com
mittee will try to get a, satisfactory bid
on the work. The resolution authorizing
the committee to proceed with plans for
cementing Washington street from
Spaulding street to the Perry street in
tersection, read for the first time Tues
day night, was given a second reading
and adopted in the face of opposing
Mrs. Enrichetta Ambrosini, whose vot" from Aldermen Shurtlefi. Reynolds
place on Railroad street was raided by
he police early in the week, acknowi
dged a selling offense when arraigned in
Magistrate H. W. Scott's court this
morning. Sentence of five to eight
months in the house of correction at
Rutland was imposed and Mrs. Ambro-
and Rossi. The South Main street pro
ject will cost $47.50) and money expend
ed on Washington street will be paid
jointly by the city, the abutters and
the state.
Names were mentioned in connection
with the revival of the water truck agi
The Deutschland, a German super-submarine
built, for carrying merchandise,
arrived at Baltimore from Bremen on
July 9 with a cargo of dyes tuffs and
mails. Her arrival was hailed in Ger
many as the beginning of a regular sub
marine merchant service between the
I'nited States and Germany which would
be able to defy the British blockade. It
was announced teat sne would De fol
lowed shortly by the Bremen, a sister
ship.
The Deutschland left Baltimore on her
return journey on Aug. I laden with a
cargo of rubber and metal.
ini was transferred to the county jail tation, the talk centering largely around
this afternoon to await execution of the tour cars. By the. process ot elimination
sentence. A quantity of beer and liquor through the medium of informal votes,
seized bv the officers' was condemned and the Republic and Overland trucks were
ordered "destroyed bv the court. Several counted out of the running. The Jeffrey
. . . . . - .. ; 1 J a J a 1 1 A J
witnessed snhnonaed in teha f ot the received vines ana mrce memoers voiea
AUTO FELL INTO RIVER.
Two of the Occupants Injured Near Au
aable Chasm.
Flattsburg. X. Y., Aug. 24. An auto
mobile in which Frank V. Judge of this
city was driving yesterday afternoon
with Misses Hayes. Muldoon, Mulligan
and McGovern of New York City, who
are attending the Catholic summer school j here late yesterday that the prestipe of
of America, crashed through a railing the I nited States has been cut practi
near Ausable Chasm and dropped intojcally in half, ss a result of its dealings
state by Grand Juror William Wishart
were paid off and told th.it their testi
mony would not be needed when Atty.
E. R. Davis for the respondent entered a
formal plea of guilty.
The police are still working on the
!heft of $50 from the person of John
McLean of Waterbury, who visited Mrs.
Ar.ibnvinl's apartments last Saturday
night and was afterward relieved of his
roll as he walked down the track away
from the woman's house. It is alleged
that .vlclmn has identified two men
for the G. M. C. Alderman Bruce's mo
tion to purchase a G. M. C. truck was
lost by a vote of 4 to 3. Alderman
Shurtleff's motion to purchase an Over
land truck was lost by a vote of 2 to 5,
and adjournment was taken after Alder-
!man Rossi s motion to purchase a Jeffrey
truck was lost by seven votes.
In the matter of the opera house lease.
J. T. Callaghan's failure to furnish a
bond and his counter-offer of SO-60 were
noted and the lease business was re
ferred back to the property committee
whom, he says, assailed him and took his to frame recommendations. Another
money.
U. S. PRESTIGE SUFFERED.
By Reason of Dealing with Mexico, Says
. Hughes.
Reno, Nev., Aug. 24. Charles' Evans
Hughe aid in an address delivered
weighty matter was disposed of when
Lrnest M. Hutchins was given perm
sion to move his henhouse on Avers
street.
DEFECTIVE FLUE BLAMED.
the Ausable river 35 feet below,
Miss Hayes, a sister-in-law of Thomas
W. Churchill, former president of the
New York City board of education, had
both legs broken and Judge suffered in
ternal injuries. The other young wom
en were not hurt.
Mr. Judje saved the Uvea of the young
women by cutting a hole 1n the hood of
the automobile and rullinjr them throuch
Ltfore the car sank ia 20 feet of wlter.
with Mexico. The nominee reiterated his
previmm declarations for an adequate
protective tariff and again took the aJ-
For Loss of Peter LaFayette'a House and
Barn in Lincoln.
Lincoln. Aug. 24. The house and barn
owned by Peter LaFayeete were de
stroyed by fire yesterday morning. The
origin of the fire is supposed to have been
in a defective flue, as the blare was first
ministration to task for retirine trained een issuing from the roof near the chim-
men from diplomatic service "to make
room for men without any special qual
ification other than party loyalty." Mr.
Hughes said he deplored the fact that
the oreenf mmi-tration "h ti s, h
Convening with 224 members of the
House and 28 members of the Senate, the
Vermont legislature met at the State
House in Montpelier at 10:20 to-day,
pursuant to the call of Governor Gates,
to provide state pay for the members of
the 1st Vermont infantry now at Eagle
Pass, Tex., and to aid in support of de
pendent of soldiers; and at 11:15
oclock a joint aesemuly was held in tne
House to hear the .governor's message.
If this forenoon's sesHion is to be taken
as a criterion, adjournment may easily
be taken Friday noon.
Of the 22 House members absent when
the roll was wiled three are deceased, as
follows: James F. Williams of Charlotte,
James F. Pierce of Swanton and C. M.
Tones of Warren. The others were de
tained at home by illness, according to
reports from neighbors.
Speaker Weeks called the House to or
der and devotional exercises were con
ducted bv the chaplain, J. H. Wills. The
proclamation was then read. The House,
on motion of Mr, Rice of Shaftbr.rv,
dopted a resolution of sympathy for
Mr. Hulet of Arlington, whose daughter
is critically ill. Mr. Soule of Albiirg
introduced a resolution that the House
notify the Senate that the House was
organized and ready for business. Mr,
Proctor, for the committee on rules, re
ported that the rules of the last session
be adopted as the niles of the House, ex
cept the following: Omit rules 1 and 23
and all of rule 27 after the word "times"
in line two; omit all of rule 40 after the
word "assistants" in line two and omit
rules 41 to 4fl. inclusive.
Speaker Weeks announced the appoint
ment of the same committees to serve
during the special session as served in
the regular session. A resolution by Mr.
Wilson of Chelsea that a. committee of
two be appointed to notify the governor
that the House was organized and ready
to receive any communication was
adopted. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Porter of
Bradford were then named as a commit
tee.
Meanwhile the Senate was called to or
der with Lieutenant Governor Darling
presiding. Prayer was offered by Chap
lain Farman and the governors procla
mation was read by the secretary. The
Senate went through much the same pro
gram as that of the House about the
formalities of opening, after which the
Senate members went to the House
chamber, where the ioint session was
held and where the governor's message
was read.
The message was as follows:
Governor Gates' Message.
"To the members of the General As
sembly:
"We have come together for reasons
known to you and for a cause which ap
peals to your patriotism and manhood.
But in order that you may more clearly
comprehend and understand the true sit
uation of our troops and their depend
ents, I think it best at this time to call
your attention to a few facts.
"As soon as the president called for
troops Vermont responded with old time
alacrity and patriotism. Adjutant Gen
eral Tillotson says in speaking of our
troops, 'Thev responded promptly to the
call, they were the first, troops to arrive
at the border and the first to be given
responsible duty, in the district in which
they are stationed; in fact, they are the
only National Guard troops at that point,
which have, as yet. been put on actual
border patrol work. All reports show
that the Vermont reeinient is recognized
ss an efficient organization. This condi
tion is due entirely to the character snd
efforts of the officers and men of the
rgeimcnt. and they deserve the practical
as well as the moral support of the
state." Colonel Peeves writes. "Vermont
has sent, a splendid body of men to the
front. They are well behaved, loyal and
patriotic, and the officers are promt of
them. They have created a splendid im
pression here because of their good con
duct end aoldier'j qual'tie.'
T-efore the trorp left their camp at
Fort Kthan Allen there came a very ur
gent request for the calling of a special!
teflon ot the leciMitturo tor the purpoe
out this decision 4 indent and well
founded, for coml' .'. have so material-
ly changed that y'.egihhitiir could not
a
as
been had v ,n men at the border and
with the cion of their families and
depende Information came from
both s,.- of such character that ill
was very apparent that something must
be done to relieve the situation. I quota
again from Colonel Reeve' letter, 'The
condition we have to meet hero is not
one of future need, but present need.
Thro is hardly a day goes by but that
some aoldicr come to me with informa
tion that his family is in need. These
men are too proud to ask for charity
and I do not think they should be re
quired to. Cnlcss something is done very
shortly it will lie very difficult to indmw
any of thene men to again offer their
services. If nothing is done until tlm
regular session of the legislature, I am '
quite. Biire that you will find with (he re
turn of the regiment that there will be a
great deal of hard feeling.'
"After consultation with some of the
state officers it was decided that a com
mittee be chosen to work out some pl.m
of relief. A committee ronm'sting of it
representative of each military company
was chosen and met in Montpelier three
timea discussing plans and obtaining in
formation a to the needs of tho families
and dependents of the troops. Nothing
was left undone by this committee with
the end in view of bringing about imme
diate relief, but the information obtained
indicated that approximately one hun
dred ami fifty families were in need of
assistance which would necexaitate the
responsibility of raising and distributing
a large sum of money and meant the as
sumption of a responsibility altogether
too Inrge for the committee to handle
w ithout, some authority from the legisla
ture. "it is tme that the war department
provided for the discharge of men that
have dependents, but I need to say no
more than that patriotic pride and'red
tane make this form of relief impractic
able. And us to the possibilities of re
lief in the wbv of an appropriation hv
Congress, it is too vague for discus-ion
and too unsettled to suit our patriotism.
"The length of time our troops will be
kept in service is uncertain. General Til
lotson says: 'All information which I
have at the present time indicates that
our troops are likely to he held in the
federal service for several months at
least, but I have no definite advices as
to this.' Colonel Reeves writes that 'In
spite of all statements to the contrary,
I am satisfied that the troops will he
down here for some time. I do not think
there is any likelihood of returning be
fore the first of January.'
"In 18lil and again in special ses
sions were held to consider the same
problems mat we are met here to-day to
consider. The session in lfil made a
very liberal provision for the assistance
of the dependent relatives of the enlisted
men and provided for pay in addition to
that received from the government. Tim
session of 1S9S provided for additional
pay for the enlisted men but did not.
provide for dependent relatives-. While
the conditions under which the men en
listed for these two wars were somewhat
different than thoe under which our
troops have enlisted in our present trou
ble, so fur as the men and their families
are concerned the situation is similar
and the need of assistance is as great
now as then, with living expenses much
higher. Our patriotism and love of coun
try, I am proud to say, i equal if not.
better, in inv ludement. than at anv
time in the history of our state and I be
lieve we are going to meet this emergen
cy with the old-time spirit, and in a bus
inesslike mannet.
There are several plans upon which
we can work, and the question of which
is the best to suit our present condition
I leave to your consideration and good
judgment. I believe we should provide
for the payment of ten dollars per month
for each enlisted ninii who now is or who
may be enrolled in our National Guard
for service on the Mexican border, or
such other military service as the presi
dent niiiv demind, in addition t i the 1 ov
ular federal pay, and that it be limited
in its operation to the period between
the date when the National Guard en
tered the federal service (June 10, lPlfi)
and the convening of the next regular
scission of the legislature, by which date
the situation nij-.y be cleared up so that,
further action will not lie recessary.
"I believe in addition to the above we
should provide for the families and I
recommend your very careful considera
tion of plans worked out by the com
mittee above mentioned.
"Having called to your attention the
business for which we re convened, the
consideration of these important matters
is in your hands, and may your action
be commensurate with the interest that
prompts the deeds of all good men in
times of this kind, and may your delib
erations be confined to the business for
which you were, called to consider, and
controlled by a wholesome desire to act
wisely and to adjourn as early as you
consistently can."
When the House re-convrned after the
joint assembly Mr. S'mitli of St Albans
City expressed the desire to expedite bus
iness and moved to amend rule 41 so
that no bill or resolution onM be con
sidered except such as came within tV.f
gcopp of the governor's me"-agc Mr.
Smith of Parre City thoucht the men at
the front oueht to have the r:sht to vot,
there and favored the rule winch would
permit action on that subject.
Then the St. Albans Smith expressed
the view that the rule would not pre
vent such action but added that in any
event the rules could be suspended, if
t l,r .-I 1 t , ... j I rtat- n .1 llnf f
,., j.,...,.,..., i.,rr, .
ney. Owing to the scarcity of wafer
the fire gained great headway in spite of
the ready response of men in the sur
rounding district to the call for help. The ! mifi'it b needed, ard hcmie
trrester part of the contents of the hue it rouble und expanse if m b a e-si.n
a Urge d'gree disregarded and violated ' w as miM. The ! on the huiHjs tV-ue'rt best r,(.f to call the ir,m-
tte Tincifle ef our merit system." jartiaPv covered, by iitoin e. Ur I -lUicr. As cttcu Lae turned
necesary. The motion was adopted.
'tbrre being many nays on a viva voce
vote.
dependent families. lle-ue of sow m- j r01 r 01 r"0-
dication that Coneress might make ne.- : LiHs pr vi i.r.g for the p?y c.f the sol-
esry provisions tor the care of the de-j.lier. ice tare 01 i.tnr uepennenis ana
pendents, because ot the uncertainty ot ' tor the expense ot t.'ie present session
tie duration of time which the troops of the l.-rs'.atui e were in: rodm-ed in th
f the Huse. Actirg fT the rimi trustee cn ap-
it ! pr-'prit :-. .ir. Froctr presp.n,j aa
n r
ICsyatia-jel us t ig'.tu j-ijc j
