fO ( r - r4 ' '
( f I
r
GOVERNOR, BURSUM, Ui S. SENATOR, HUBBELL, LAND COMMISSIONER, ERVIEN
THE CLAYTON CIT
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1916
NO. 33
IZEN
SO THE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
Do you know, Mr. Taxpayer, what it
costs you, according to your own re
cords, to read the "doin's' of your
county commissioners ? We mean such
"doin's" as they are willing that you
should read. Well, listen! According
to a certain record on file in the coun
ty clerk's jifficc, you have paid since
1911, beginning with the year 1912,
$5,025.67 for just such reading be
sides paying $3,462.49 for the privi
lege of learning through your so-called
official organs how often your land
has been sold for taxes etc.
Of the first mentioned sum the En
glish publication got $3,334.63 while
the Spanish publications got $1,691.04,
or about half as much as the English
publication. We might pause at this
point lonp enough to ask the ques
tion: "Why this difference, since the
matter published is supposed to be
the same?" Of the second aforesaid
sum, the English publication got $1,
941.21, wVile the Spanish publications
got $l,f728, or about three-lourtns
n i i. it . nti : 1
as mucn as me rmgusn uiiicihi ui
gan." This is' SOME PRIVILEGE
to pay for isn't it? Besides, it is
SOME PRICE to pay for it isn't it?
At the legal rate, what you have
paid for the publication of the "com
missioners minutes," alone would oc
cupy about 408 columns, or about 10
full and complete issues of 8 pages
each of the English publication. .We
flo not vouch for the accuracy of the
record because it is the work of the
present so-called, democratic adminis
traticn of Union County. We merely
give it as it appears of record. It
wouH seem that these publications
shouid get about the same amounts
on these items as they are supposed
A- U Un covmo inma A liferent. Onlv
in language, but out of the $8,488.16fl
paid out for such purposes the hng
lish publication gets $2,063.52 MORÍ
than the Spanish publication for mi
pos3(lly the same work. Now this lis
according to the administration's re
con! and according to the braggadocio,
and empty rhetoric, of the "peewit"
"Resolutions" that are destined, in the
minds of their variegated few fathers
an I progenitors, to re-elect Wilson
aid utterly defeat Hughes, the record
of the administration, is abso'utely
unassailable and beyond and above re
proach or criticism.
At the legal rate, the publication
of the "commissioners minutes," in
ilily, 1916, would figure up about $70.
,f,3ee, Clayton News, issue July 22,
1916. 903 lines of 26 ems each at 30c
per hundred em3 of the type in which
the matter was set.) If you will ex
amine the issue cited, you will observe
that the "commissioners m'nutes" so
published "covers much more matter
than usual, for it covers a Road Re
viewers Report, orders establishing
two different roads, an Election Pro
clamation, orders "Re-arranging"
Boundary Lines in several precincts,
besides the usual number of allow
ances for bills submitted, hence, it is
duite above the average of such mat-
tor. Rut. liberally supposing that,
the Union County contingent of the
so-called democratic administration?
Was it too mal-odorous for even the
"invisible government" to attempt to
blanket with an "indorsement?" Why
didn't this "invisible government"
"point with pride" to the "great
achievements" of the so-called demo
cratic administration, "Especially of
Union County," in the "building of
good roads, prompt and accurate of
ficial service, economic and honest-to-
God-impartial official action, etc., etc?
Why did the "invisible government"
become so engrossed with the dis
franchisement of one whole precinct
of American citizens and qualified
voters by a legless ballot-box, and
several other precincts of the same
kind of citizens by portable polling
places, that it forgot to "point with
pride" to the "great achievements" of
the Union County contingent? Why
should the Union county contingent
be left to congeal in the Arctic regions
of political oblivion when it would
have been so easy to "point with
pride" to the "great achievements" of
this modest contingent with its long
list of prideful exploits. Surely this
contingent deserved some sort of
special mention by the "invisible gov
ernment" of Union County, a very
small portion of which is not sup
posed, under federal statutes, "To at
tempt to manipulate party principles
or conventions," or "To use his posi
tion to bring about his selection as a
delegate to conventions." Why 'did
the "invisible government" of Union
County reach back, by resolutions, in
to the arctic of oblivion and drag from
its abysmal recesses the results of its
own slime, rather than devote a fw
tlUIUHIIIIIiaillllli IH llll-lH' III
1 1 1 nmnti "Ml wiuittii "it"
Ae we go to press a telegram
from Santa Fe announces the
nomination of Holm O. Bursum
for governor, Frank A. Hubbell
for United States senator and
Robert P. Ervien for State Land
Commissioner by the republican
convention. We have no advice
as to moninations for other of
fices. The nomination of these
three seems to have been cer
tain all along and there has
been little doubt of this result
for some time past. At this
time we have neither time nor
space for further comment.
"SOME MORE QUESTIONS"
llilllililwiiiliimtlltliMll'ill
lllllHIIIIIIHltlllllltMII
FALL SAYS REPUBLICANS WILL
MEET OPPONENTS IN MUD
SLINGING CAMPAIGN
Also Declares Hughes Will Surely
Be Next President
Santa Fe, Aug. 23. All predictions
of a serious conflict in the republican
state convention seemed to disappear
when the state central committee this
morning, without oposition, chose Sen
aor Albert B. Fall for temporary
chairman, thus showing the Hubbell-
Bursum forces in full control.
Favorite Sons Applauded
When at 2 o'clock this afternoon,
the hour for the convention to meet,
arrived, the hall was crowded to the
doors of the Paris theatre with dele
gates and spectators. The first ap
plause came when Frank A. Hubbell
entered the hall just before the time
for opening. Another outbreak oc
curred a few minutes later when Sen
ator Thomas B. Catron walked with
long iinn strides down the hail. He
As it seems to be the season for ask
ing Foolish Questions, we might as
well add a few more to the list, re
cently propounded to Mr. Hughes:.
Mr. Hughes:
If you had written fourteen suc
cessive notes to Carranza, each de
manding that he be held to Strict
Accountability for the murder of Am
ericans, and then your typewriter
broke and your fountain pen went dry
and both you and the secretary of
state got writer's paralysis, what
would be your next aten?
Tf vn Wi inv, MP.!, -ml dler and Hatchett for Clayton; hits
ken the port of Vera Cruz, and driven wn. fu,LCla,yton' six, fo,r Thoma-
Mr. Huerta out of the presidency, and
CLAYTON TAKES MONDAY'S
GAME
And Gives Texhoma Tuesday's
The fans in this section were treated
Monday and Tuesday, to some more
"real, honest-to-God ' ball playing
when Clayton and Texhoma crossed
bats for the fourth series of games
played by them this season. Texhoma
has taken six out of nine games from
us and have proven the hardest nut
Clayton has had to crack this season.
Monday's game was seven to four in
favor of Clayton. Butteries, Morton
and Buttcrbaugh for Texhoma, Knad-
fines to the "great achievements" of1 seemed to carry h'"s more than seven-
Union County's administrative contin
gent whose administrative activities
are 'still very much alive and Imrgl
'in the. hearts and minds of the peo
ple?" It must be that the "Resolu
tions Committee," after its last per-
ty-six years lightly and, although rec
ognizing the imminence of defeat,
never appeared more buoyant or vig
orous. Tke next diiiior.tration oc
curred when two candidates for the
governorship, Sargent and . Romero,
erration claiming as a 'Vrent ,l,.mo ! talked down the aisle, not together
cratic achievement" the really great ! but Sargent following closely after
republican achievement which made : r'mt'ro- This ioint demonstration
the children of New Mexico "heir toivvnile vigorous, was entirely from the
more than twelve million n-pPS nf,1"1" delegations from San Miguel
land," was suddenly attacked by men- an;1 Rio Arriba counties
tal aberration and aphasia that fore- ! Mixcd with each of the demonstra
stalled any mention of the real lions of liorl3 for favorite 8ona were 'el,s
"great achievements" in civil gov-; from 11,1 Parts of the house for ITolm
eminent in Union County. It is - Kursum- wbo came in as unosten
too bad that the lions of dem-', tatiously as possible and took a seat
ocratic failure in Union County m'ar the rpar of the ba,L Vory few
were not pointed to with pride, of the delegates saw him, but the ap
but it could hardly be expected as V10 started for Bursum and con
the aftermath of such a delivery by j tinued until the fhairnlan PP" for
the "Resolutions Committee." How ordpr-
easy it was, under pressure of such a ! SL'nator Fal1 beKan his keynote
"brainstorm," for the "Resolutions W(-'h with a declaration that he was
Committee" to "resolve" a great re- the bearer of 8 mosaKe from the re
publican achievement into one of the P"blicans of the nation at ,arKe that
"great achievements" of the so-called ! New Mex,co wa9 exPecte(1 10 K've
democratic party! But when the long ! majrity of ten thousand to the na-.
range, "great achievement," in this ! tional "publican ticket and that a
case, fades into a "close-up" it shows Unitcd Statps 9enor and a member
up as a republican achievement. Fade of the ,over housP wprc to bo rpt':r?1
out so-called democratic achievements, ! C(1 for thc PUrPose of. supporting the
fad-.! in true republican achievements! 'Iu"bos Administration, which, he said,
Ancnt the publication business there was solutely sure. He said it made
each quarter furnishes this amount of ' is another little item that may prove no difference to him whether Senator
matter, at the legal rute it would fig- of interest to the taxpayer. In the year ratron or his f,iond l rar,k Al Hub"
,,n níwmt S70 an'.! 1 times $70 is 131 1. the Citizen forced a show down ! ,,eU wns epa t0 tl,e Unltcti t,tate3
$280 per year and for four and a half on bids for such work. That vear the ! 3t'nat the main thnx 'w,,s that tnP
vears would amount to ?12fi0 instead English publication, according to theUnitcd Stiltps Ronate W8S to ba
of ?3,334.Cn, or $t.C!H.04, thc respec
tive amounts already alluded to.
Did you notice, M Taxpayer, how
careful' the "Resolutions Coir mi I toe,"
"the invisible j,-ovnrpment" of Union
County, was to avoid aiy "in.'or.:"
ment" of the 'irreal, a-díij-ement:-," of
-,mb r..,or,l mf íjuiío. mío iici'twii trom the (lemorTi y so that '!
H; 1013, $81S.79; 1D13-1G, '$905..!
Tote thelil5ereiife tind also note that!
i :)!(' l'i only half j;ono. Of course!
"irvcat achievement:!" like this easily
i ':' ped the attention of the "Resolu-!
(.ions. Committee."
tk.u;i;dv nuií
TO lUCil V. ATI,!?
v
Three small caskets were taken
from the Kilburn Undertaking par
lors Monday to Clapham where' the
three children of Eulalia Blea were to
be interred. The family was crossing
the Finavetis Sunday in a wagon when
high water, caused by heavy rains
above Clapham, struck them and over
turned the wagon, spilling them all in
the water. The father and mother
were assisted to the bank by near-ify
residents but the children could not
be reached and their bodies were
found a mile or more down the stream.
This is a tragedy which brings th
vT sympathy of a'.l who hear of it
o the parents, but, unfortunately
sympathy eunm.t bring back the little
ones.
The streams in this eountry are
:ron hero 1:3 ard to be watched in sum
11er when heavy rains come up sud
denly and flood the creeks.
P. M. Lienau of Santa Fe, Deputy
Superintendent of Insurance, was in
the city yesterday on important bus
iness. It has been reported that a lot
of rebating in life insurance policies
has been done and -Mr. Lienau is a
specialist in looking after these matters.
ei-t'ro national covernmct - would be
in the hands of the republican party.
Americanism a la Hughes
Senator Fall's keynote speech was
dcotcil to what he termed "Ameri
canism" as it would be carried out by
Mr. Il'ifrhes, the necessity for a pro
tective tariff that v.ou'.l keep Ameri
can labor from coming in competition
with Japanese and Chinese labor and
the pauper labor of Europe. He said
the republican idea was for every Am
erican laborer to be able to eat beef
steak three times a day if he wanted
to, and that there should be no occa
sion for the reduction of the price of
beef.
Referring to thc state campaign, he
said that if the democrats wanted to
make this a mud-slinging campaign
instead of conducting it on high
grounds, the republicans would beat
them on their own chosen field and
exchange blow for b'ow nnd throw
mud for mud and make it stick.
shot up some 250 Mexicans, and sent
a punitive expedition into the interior
of Mexico, and ordered out all the
militia and regulars of the United
States to the Mexican border, and had
stated that you were in a fighting
mood, and that "I see no reason to
change our policy of watchful waiting
in Mexico, as it is none of our busi
ness," and a lot of vicious vultures had
demanded that you intervene by force
in Mexico, would you have Gone to
War?
If you had been stating for four
years that Americans were exploiting
and robbing Mexico, and looting the
country, and that vultures were caus
ing Columbus raids to further their
own ends, and that exploiters, looters
and vultures had been exerting terrific
pressure on you for four years to in
tervene in Mexico, and some one
should ask you for the name and ad
dress and specific offense of one single,
solitary, isolated, separate vulture,
looter, exploiter, robber or war-de
mamler, what would you say? Would
you give his name and address and
offense as aforesaid? Or would you
respond merely with one of those
Glittering Generalities of which you
have been accused? What?
If the Hunorable Secretury : Co.m-
merce and Labor should tell you that
one Mr. Durand had resigned, unasked,
and had not been retired, and Mr. Du
rand should write you a letter saying
that he had been fired, retired, canned
and sacked, and that a successor had
been appointed, and the Honorable
Secretary should not deny it, what
would you do with the first and prev
ious statement made by the Honorable
Secretary?
If you should be in charge of Amer
ican relations with Mexico for four
years, and interfere, gratiously, in
effectively, futilely, without provoca
tion and without purpose for four
years in the affairs of that country,
and should bring the two countries to
war, and American soldiers should be
killed by Mexican soldiers, and you
should at the end of four years plain
tively tell the people of the United
States that you don't understand why
the Mexicans can't be made to trust
us, what would you think of yourself
and when?
If you should get out and tell the
people that you were the inventor of
preparedness, and back up the most
elaborate and expensive national de
fense progrnm ever inaugurated when
the people forced you into it, and then
come out and say that the nation was
at peace with all the world, always
would be at peace and "was not threat-
Umpire, Brooks. Tuesday's batteries:
Waters and Butterbaugh for Texhoma
and Babcock and Miller for Clayton;
hits, Clayton six, Texhoma four; Um
pire, Clark. v"
Babcock pitched wonderful ball
Tuesday and would have had a 2 to 0
victory if his support had not been a
little weak in the first inning. He al
lowed only two hits in the last eight
innings and not a score. Knadller,
the pride of the Clayton team, left
Tuesday afternoon for Denver to pitch
in the Post Tournament. A telegram
received by his friends yesterday re
ports that he won the second game
for Ft. Lyons, pitching against Mc
Graw, the star amateur twirler of the
state of Colorado. The winning team
in this tournament will pull down $500.
ANENT THE "FA KM LO W" FAKE
AND INTENDED VOTE
CATCHER
The "Farm Loan" fake and intended
vote catcher is "pointed to with pride"
as one of the "great achievements" of
the so-called dem n r . lie admiii'itra
tion. It is one with the same web as
the "Regional Bank" buncombe foist
ed upon the country as a "great finan
cial" stroke in favor t.f the plain peo
ple not a single one of -vhem can point
to a single instance of iiumicial re
lief, under its regime. It is safe to
say there is not a single farmer in
Union County who will ever be able to
get a taste of this noütical "pie."
Remember, it is not a "Fai'm Loan
Act," in fact, but a "Farm Land Bank
Act," and there is SOME difference
in name and in fact. Remember, there
will never be one of these twelve land
banks closer to Union County than
Denver, Colorado. The Union Coun
ty farmer will have about the same
chance of securing a loan from it as
a snowball would have retaining it3
frigidity in the proverbial hot place.
Remember, Mr. Farmer, if you have
any money to deposit your government
will take it on deposit at. your post
office which is alway3 convenient to
you. Then why should you be re
quired to go to Denver, Colorado,
with all the odds against you secur
ing a loan, trying to take advantage
of a "great achievement" that was in
tended for your special benefit. If
Uncle Sam means well to you, why
can he not loan you money through
thc same post-office window that he
tak.es vour money on deposit, if ho
is going to loan you any money at all?
Why put you to, all this inconven
ience? Why should another system
of "private banking" be established
by the government under the pre
tense of benefitting the farmer unless
'.ml'
s )- e.
to.
'vst-
t ho for the mimóse of catchin'' the
ened from any quarter," and that pre- famm. voll, for th? f,os,llt niimii-.
jjilivtuu's invite wu tieo uní, jnu
face is sternly st a minst war for any
reason, how many bootjacks would t
take to fntten up a lamp-post?
If a hen mid a half lay an eyg and
a half in a day ard a half and if the
Siimer lower swiir;s back und forth fumicr except through "Farm Land
four inches in a 60-mile an hoiii iale, Pariks" 11 which tlm ov-nmont will
; and the ornithorynchus or duck-billed ow, pon-(!i,vidend-pnymg stock. Now
platypus is found only in southeast-1 v ho will get the foreclosures, intcr
ern Sumatra, and if Reason draws the rst mi 1 other increments? The "pri-
rille and Honor Primes the Sword,
how long will it take one war-aero-
; tia'.ion? That is a 1
j "Farm Loan Ai ;" . :.
; piTM nt. Na:.ii' ".:.! La; k
' liase 1 en bonds of the
and thH new "svs-.-V
' land but it w;ü
1
The
m is
I'nit"d St .Vs
will be based
not loan the,
plane with a broken pinion to soar so
high again? Santa Fe New Mexican.
ANNOUNCEMENT
We are authorized to announce John
L. Hill as a candidate for the nomin
ation for Sheriff, subject to the ac
tion of the Republican party County
Convention.
vate capital" that subscribes for the
stock of eoui'ío. The scheme is sim
ilar to the old United Slates Bank
which Thomas Jefferson and Andrew
Jackson, thc only true democratic
presidents wo ever had, fought t.i a
finish; yet this land bank scheme
which is after the farmer's lands is
"pointed to with pride" as one of the
"great achievements" of the present,
so-called democratic administration
(Continued on Pago Five)
