V0UVL. Nu.8HM. GRANTS PAS8, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON, THURSDAY, Al'Gt'ST 24, 1910, WHOLE NUMBER 1832.
7 ' No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Semce..,vy:'V'
SUAR HE
FREIGHTER
Oectschfand Docks at Hpe
Pert and Receives Greet-
legs oi lcsasar.uy-uic-nca
Reported Close b
By Carl Acksrman ;
Berlin, Aug. 14. The Oerraan
commerce submarine Deutschland
eluded at leant eight English war
hip and a whole fleet or American
finning chooners, In the employ of
the alllea, when the dashed out to
a from the Virginia capes on the
night of August t, It waa learned here
today. s-1-, " -
flraat rowda greeted Captain
ubmeinlble to cross the AUantlo re
turned to her borne port at Bremen
1at night
Captain Koenlg had no fear of the
titled warahlp patrol when be ateam
ed louthward from Baltimore, but he
had not counted on the American
schooners hired to help trap hlsres
sel. . ;' - -,-..'''
Passing out of the Virginia canes,
the Peatachland encountered a treat
number of these schooners, lying Just
outside Chesapeake bay. The schoon
ers had dropped their net, osten
sibly to fiah.
Their ml purpote, Koenlg said,
a make loundlnga for the
Deutschland, aiming to signal allied
warships It the submarine plunged
through their neU.
n.ni.tn Vnni tAlnrranhed the
Oxean company, ownera of hli ere1,
that the American government ob
aerved strict neutrality throughout
the Den'schland's stay.
Both the British and French war
ships respected American rlghta and
made no attempt to approach witnin
tha three-mile tone In their efforts to
trap the V boat. How many Trench
warships were engaged In the-patrol
he did not know.
During the whole Journey of 4,100
miles the Deutschland wa's submerged
only for 1 1 0 miles. The weather was
splendid at the beginning of the voy
age, but became stermy later. , The
blow ceased as the Deutschland ap
proached the English coast, but iome
difficulty was experienced because of
the heavy fog. The necessity for
feeling her way slowly In the thick
mists delayed the Deutschland's ar
rival several days.
Upon entering the North sea the
submarine encountered severe storms.
She proved that she Is an excellent
ea craft, her engines working per
fectly despite the fact thatshe was
being tossed by mountainous waves.
But few vesselg were sighted and
not a single Iceberg was encountered.
The, Deutschland submerged ,when
another ship appeared on the fcorlson
and her captain expressed doubt that
ahe had been seen by any other vessel.
It was 8 o'clock yesterday after.
t Ik. r...t.At.ln A feMAtt.MAft
in the Weser river, after e, short tolBertfttton regftrdlng the domooratlc
at Heligoland. Word of ber coming tarl(f poUcjr . wlth ,peolai reference to
was telegraphed to Bromon'and the the sugar tariff., Utah Is a beet sugar
city was instantly boflaggod. " , producing state and the republican
. Messenger, were dlspatohed j nomluoe'a thrust at the democrats
bomes of the members or me
Deutschland's crew and bells were
rung throughout the city. Two-thirds
of the city's population gave the sub-
mariners a great ovation when they
drew up to the dock, at 7 o'clock.
There wer affwting scenes whop the
Deutschland's .' sailors; . pressing
through the crowd that swarmed In
about them, were' greeted by rela
tives, In some Instances families nf
the submariners knew nothing of
their departure on such an adventur-
f
Continued on page I)
BRITISH COAST IS
WiOFIffiB
OF 1 1111
London, Aug. 14. A Zeppelin raid
ed tha east coast of England shortly
before midnight last night, the war
once announced today. No 'damage
waa done and there were no casual
ties. ;; - ' '
Last night's Zeppelin visit ' and
other of the past few weecs are. be
lieved to have been reconnolterlog
flight for the purpose of testing
England'! air defenses, la prepara
tion for a great aeritl attack
For the last fortn.aat word has
been coming from Germany of tho
construction of huge Zeppelins, cap
able of carrying several, tons of ex
plosives, The German correspondents
hinted that these ky drendnangbts
would move agalnat : tondon and
Paris daring September and October,
when weather conditions are apt to
be favorable,, Zeppelins found the
weather so favorable daring Septem
ber of last year that they made five
raids on England in ' that month
alone. "v . -' ' ;
The first authentic Intomatlon con
cerning the new Zeppelin" giants was
given to England by Baron Montagu,
former vice-chairman of the joint
naval and military hoard, In a epeech
last night The new balloons are 780
feet long, can travel 80 miles '' an
hour and can ascend three mile to
escape (hells from anti-aircraft guns:
Eaoh can carry five tons of explosives.
The German nave completed two
of the new airships and will- have
fonr 1 other available for. raids en
England in October, Montagu said.
BLACK RUST MAY
CAUSE $2 WHEAT
Washington, Aug. 14. Black rust
probably will be the cause of sending
wheat priors soaring to unheard of
Jevels with the coming of the spring
output, according to. the United
States department of agriculture to
day. One dfflclal said 8 2 wheat now
appeara probable.
One of the most severe epidemics
In black rust ever recorded has swept
the wheat belt of the northwest, with
unprecedented damag predicting a
production far below normal. ' .
. Reports arriving at the department
not only substantiate the predictions
of government exports, but, It Is said,
tend to place the loss at a far greater
figure, with correspondingly higher
prices certain for the fall and winter.
The Infected area Minnesota and
the two Dakotas produce, It' Is said,
the greater part of the spring crop.
UTAH CROWDS SEE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
Ogden, Utah, Aug. 84. Candidate
Hughes today headed into Utah, the
state which tour years ago gave Taft
one of his two republican majorities.
In his morning speech here, Gov
ernor illuahes enlarged on hls dls-
was received with enthusiasm.
The tariff, federal employers' lla
blllty law and workmen's compensa-
Uon and h 0'wn ,ftbop reoord wew
ldliCttiMi by Hughes In his address,
t Reno ,Mt n,ght iIe discoursed on
thf noc8B(llty of 00.0pe'ratlon between
... inhniv .,, annUred "con
tented America will be a successful
Amorlca." , .
, Hughes also declared In favor of a
"world court" to settle controversies
between nations after the present war
In Europe ends. , , v ;
SPUIS Rl 8lS
CHIEFS TO SOUTH
Clbax b Efforts to Avert
Strike Ttccght Pe:ding Today-Hints
cfChshb Cca
feresce cf Railway Heads
Washington, Aug. 14.- The climax
in the negotiations 'to prevent the
threatened general railroad strike ap
peared to have been reached at J
o'clock thla afternoon. ; :
At that hour the ub-oommittee of
eight railroad presidents, represent
ing the greatest system 6f the coun
try,' met with the full committee of
65 railway executive, to put up for
discussion a tentative plan of settle
ment1 '., ; y; 'x:'
This plan included acceptance of an
eight-boor day ' proposition; similar,
at least, to that, proposed, by Presi
dent Wilson. The railroad presidents,1
If the eight-hour day i granted, want
from the president assurances of im
mediate consideration by the inter
state commerce commission of re
quests for rate increases, remedial
legislation for the railroad by con
gress and the creation of a perman
ent commission to settle further labor
disputes. ,;. . . i,..r
A big. clash among the presidents
was confidently predicted. ' A first In
dication of this broke out during the
session this morning, when a discus
sion of possible terms of settlement
lesulted In strong declaration from
ome of the moat prominent execu
tives against acceptance of any peace
proposal which Included ' an eight-
hour day such as offered by President
Wilson. ; . , '-',-
As a result, one of the leading exe
cutives after the conference broke up
said the situation "looked very seri
ous." : 1 ' .. : v Y
After conferring with President
Wilson, today, Judge Chambers, of
the . federal board of mediation and
conciliation, discussed with the sub
committee of executives what they
had in mind regarding the settling of
labor troubles In the' future.' There
was a determined fight against ac
ceptance of a proposal Involving an
Continued on Page 8.
Washington, Aug. 14. The super
high cost of living Is not here to stay.
Is purely commercial and readily
traceable to the baslo laws of supply
and demand.' This was the statement
today of Leon M. Estabrook, chief
of the United States bureau of crop
estimates, authority on food supplies,
While the prices of food should be
properly expeoted to advance com
mensurate with-the rising prosperity
I). S. OFFICIAL DECUWES HIGH .COST
OF LIVIHG OHLY TEHPORARY C0HD1TI0H
of tho country to keep pace with the- while the demand has mounted stead
general rise In prloes qn all commo- lly during the past 10 years. Intlm
dltle's, the present abnormal prices on atlon that the half doxen large pack
many food staples will adjust them- lng houses, which exert a, practical
selves wtth another season, Estabrook monopoly, have controlled prices on
said. : 1 ' cattle on the hoof to such an extent
Soaring prices ot grain, he said, are, that the cattle , industry has proven
directly due to the big falling off In unprofitable, was made by Estabrook.
production , In almost every class, Cattle raisers, he said, have for the
taken In with the bumper outputs of past 10 years complained that they
the past two years. , . . i . were unable to obtain sufficient
' The sudden decrease In production money from' the packing houses to
this year has naturally sent prices make the business moderately lucra
skyward. The Jump In th price ot tlve. The surest confirmation ot
beans from fire cents last year to 11 price fixing, In Estabrook' opinion, Is
cents now is another example, Esta-
brook tald, of increased demand from
' the armies in Europe and on the Mex -
can border, with curtailed produo-
tlon,'dutq unfavorable weather con-
Greek Territory v Is Entered
'acd Saall Allied (ktpsst
Forces are Drires feck
Oa Uaia Lee' of Dele:
Berlin, Aug. 84. Bulgarian force
defeated the enemy in fresh fighting
on the Struma river, the Anglo-
French troops escaping by flight on
the right bank, said a Bulgarian of
ficial statement received her today.
In their flight the allies abandoned
sejrerat' hundred dead.
"''The Greek village of Enikuey,
Mevory and ' Towlova were covered
with enemy dead," the statement con
tinued. "We have counted thus far
400 enemy corpses, among them sev
eral officers. We captured 250 pris
oners. '' .v ';''''' ; 1 '.."
. "A squad of hostile cavalry, lured
into ouf fire by the maneuvers of our
Infantry, was entirely annihilated.'
'"French attacks south' of Doiran
have failed completely. This Is prob
ably why General Sarrall reports of
places which always have "been In the
hands of the; allies, le the railroad
station at Doiran and the vUlago of
Doloadyell.' which bav now" ' been
abandoned by the allies; Our trobps
buried SO1 French dead on this sector.
"On the right bank of the Vardar
we captured "a hostile detachment
near Nayadagn and took one machine
gun, the French leaving 70 dead. Our
right 'wing continues Its operations."
TEXAS VILLAGE BEING v ,
DESTROYED BY FIRE
? Dallas. Texas, Aug1. 84. The vil
lage of Carroll ton, 14 "miles north of
here, waa reported to be In danger
of total destruction by( fire at :15
this afternoon.' - The flames were said
to be beyond control and nearby cities
were preparing to send aid.' The ori
gin of the fire was 'unknown and de
tails were lacking,1 as al wires were
down. - ;--v
D. D. Dodge went to Medford this
morning on a brief business trip!
dltlons.
t Prices on vegetables are purely sea
sonable, he said. The season of 1915,
unusually cool, witnessed a bumper
crop In nearly all sections. The pre-
sent season has been anything but'
higher .prices
The constantly rising
meats, Estabrook said, results from I
a gradual falling, off In production,
the fact that ranchers are dropping
cattle raising ' In Increasing large
. numbers, until today there are fewer
cattle on the hoot than there were In
1910 six year ago. ;
T DEFEAT OF
TURKS REPORTED
Petrograd, Aug.' 24. Slav 'troops
bavjs defeated four divisions of Turks
(80,000 men) In a great battle near
the village of Racbta, near Mosul,
capturing two entire Turkish regi
ment, it was officially announced' to
day. Much cannon and other booty
were taken. ; ' ;-V.'v'',
MEXICAN COMMISSIONERS ' :
LEAVE FOB BORDER
Mexico City,, Aug. J4 The Srst
preliminary meeting of the Mexican
and American conferee will be beld
in New York, at the Blltmore hotel,
September 4, It was announced this
afternoon following the call of Diplo
matic Agent Rodger on Foreign Min
ister AgutiarVJ '.'":''.''.'',",
The Mexican commissioner win
leave Mexico City Saturday for the
United States, , it was announced.
; Rodger called at the foreign office
to officially inform the Mexican gov
ernment of the selection of tbe Amer
ican commissioners by President Wil
son. :.-'"''.;'.' '':- ''"
WILL SOOJf Aflat BIDS 05 .
FOUR STJPER-bREADNAtlGBTS
Washington, Aug. 34. When tbe
navy bill la signed by President Wil
son next week the navy department
will advertise immediately for bids
tor four anper-dreadnaughta, Bid
ding will close two months later.
About the same time, October 1, plans
for the hew battle cruisers -will be
completed, the department hopes, and
bids will then be asked on these, with
a two months' limit
LAD SHOOTS Ol'iiERS
AND STEALS FARM
Olathe, Kas.. Aug. 24. Roy Dud
ley, arrested late yesterday, charged
with the killing of Ur. and Mrs.
Henry Mueller on 'their farm near
Stillwell, 17 miles southeast of here,
admitted the killing today,; officials
said. . Dudley Is reported to have said
he quarreled , with , Mueller over a
team of mules and that Mueller at
tacked him. To defend himself, Dud
ley claims to have grabbed a shotgun
that was hanging over tbe barn door
and shot . Mueller. . then . when , Mrs.
Mueller, at temp ted to interfere he
ahot her . Dudley did the shooting
Sunday, took possession of the place
and hired a boy to belp him with, the
farm work, and then tried to sell part
of the wheat crop Mueller bad raised.
The doable murder was' discovered
when. Sheriff Carroll went to Stillwell
to arrest Dudley on a charge of steal
ing the wheat Carroll believes the
crime was planned by Dudley.
Dudley Is said to have tied the
bodies together and dragged them to
an abandoned house a quarter of a
j mile distant, where he bid the bodies
: in the cellar. . Dudley Is an ex-
nnvint
When neighbors questioned
....u mm v nu
he was running the
farm alone, be said that the Muellers
had gone on a trip to California.
THOUSANDS GREET
COOS BAY VISITORS
MarBhfleld. Aug. 24. Portland vis
itors to the Coos Cay railway Jubilee
were greeted by a crowd ot more
than 3,000 persons when they arrived
at Nona uom today. . Hundreds ar
rived at Marshfleld by automobile
The machines formed a continuous
stream. " Other crowds came on spe
cial trains from all parts ot the coun
try. It was evident the jubilee would
be attended by one ot the biggest
natherlnga in southwestern Oregon's
history. ! . .
1
BY SLAV FORCES
i
mm
C(K?snii3'cf .t 5 0. C
c&xal S;cr a h
gra-Adis b Prczr
Active co-operation on the part ot
the California and Oregon Coast Rail
way company with the Josephine
county fair board has resulted in en- -
ou yiaua lur uiia ;eu man
show which will, lift the affair from a
local plane to one of great Interest
throughout all southern Oregon.
Through the personal efforts of Vice
President R. B. Miller, of tbe C ft
O. C, one of the most highly repute!
lirrfonltnr 1vnrr Is ti nS.
west, C.i L. (Farmer) Smith, agricul
turist of the Union Pacific system, la
to be here to deliver addresses during"
the first two days of the fair. In ad
dition to this, the rallroal eompexy
has added one hundred dollars lsv
prises to the premium list already,
published, and plans are on foot to
designate one day ai "Portland Day," "
i wnicn ume u u inienaea 10 nsv
a representation wesent from the)
Rose City to see at first hand the new
life with which the valley f-the
Rogue Is bubbling' ' ' " ' ' '
awhrds .which had not' before been 1
made and adds to some others. For
competition in the best ten, ears of
corn there are five new prises, $15. '
$10. $5. $ J. and $ 8. A $5 award U
to be made for the best aingle ear ot
corn, and the best bundle of ensilage
corn, consisting ot 20 stalks, will get
another. $5, with $S and $2 second
and third awards. The best, dairy cow
ot any breed wins a $20 first prise,
with second and third prises of $10
and $5.' The best bull of any bredr
two years or over, takes a $15 prise,
' Two addresses by Mr.. Smith, ths
Union' Pacific agriculturist, have now
been definitely planned. The firs:
will be on the evening of September '
19, tbe first day ot the fair, to busi
ness men and others. It will prob
ably be given in Railroad park. On
the next day, at 1:30 p. m be will
make . an address ; particularly for
farmers, At the fair grounds. ' '
Mr. Smith will Judge the agricul
tural display on the 19th.
Mr. Smith's presence here at th
time arranged,: is made posstbla
, (Continued on page t) ,
SALES OH MARKET
HOLD GRAINS LOWER
Chicago, Aug. 24. Continued sell
ing pressure forced' further declines.
In the wheat market today, despite
bullish advices and cables. Fraction
al gains -were 'made after the dtp, but
these were lost when bears started
selling heavily. September was down.
below the . opening lH at 1.48;
December down 1 at 151, and
May down at 155. ,
The corn market rallied after an
easy opening, active buying In Decern'
ber corn giving the market good sup
port. Reports from Kansas lndloato.
that the corn production there wjUU
be about one-third ot last year. Sop.
ber, up at T4, and May up Hi
at 77. ,;'.- .
I Oats were slow and there was slight ;
easing oft in. December and May fu
tures, after making early gains. Sep-
at 45; December unchanged at 4a
and Mav uncbani1 jif. KU '
Provtsons were higher,
