V J
GAZ
IME
Oregon ifftor
Stock Lxcii
j JL JL -IeS1
IIEPPXEU, OREGON, AUGUST, 24, 1J)1.
SUBSCRIPTION, PER YEAR
VOL. MM. NO. 2
II SM. II II
H H
1L JLJLJL-
B1D1IISIBI
WITH i FUTURE
UALLbU B ULA1H
c. :
BUi.vden I'mlict.s (ireat TliiiiKs
or Xew 'it y in the North.
"I have never yet lived in a town
with such a promising future as
Yews Items of More Than Passing
Moment I- ruin lone und Vicinity.
This community was saddened by
the announcement of the death of
Andy J. Cook believes he has the
rnrnril for nntatn nr.iduction from one I
hill. One hill of his potato patch pro
duced sixty spuds and they are all of
fair rise. The remarkable part of
the thins is the fact that all the po
tatoes came from just one seed. The
piece of potato which Mr. Cook plant
ed for seed, did not decay, but Is as
it,.... .Iimmm " uolil fl r lllnvdnn. a firm nml emnnth nnw ns it was the
merchant from that town who .was in .day it was planted. Mrs. Geo. N. Ely which occurred at
Hewmcr Wednesday to attend to j The potatoes are of a late variety j tile llome of Mr and Mrs C- A- low
school matters. 'and introduced into this country from j n (m Su t Mrs Ey
According to Mr. Biaylon. Board-; Yakima. Mr. Cook states he will j
i ,., '. . !, i, 'was convalescing from her recent con-
man is progressing ai a rupiu j nave more pciaiues una jtm "
right now. He makes the prediction will know what to do with,
that it will be the garden spot of the j He will have the sixty potatoes tak
coimiy in a l't.v years a::d land will bo ,en from one hill on display at the
of higher value here than in any oth-! Morrow County Fair. Later he will
or section of the county. He bases j use them for seed.
his statement on the fact tl'.at sou in
the Boardman section, when placed
under irrigation, will produce heavi
ly. He believes it Is a young man's
country. "A young man who would
buy a fow acres of Boardman land
under 'the ditch, grow alfalfa and
raise hogs could not. help but prosper.
Boardman has the best natural loca
tion i-i the world, being on the main
line of a transcontinental railroad, is
situated on the banks of the Colum
blt River and there is a natural grade
into Boardman from all the tributary
country. Another thing in Board
man's favor is the easy access to an
early and ready market," said Mr.
Blavden,
At the present time Mr. Blayden is
building a new store building whlcli
will soon be ready for occupancy. He
is more than pleased with the way
his business has grown since he ar
rived there and says he has heen add
ing to his stock of goods continually
FOREST NOTES.
Box manufacture ranks first among
the wood using industries of Wash
ington. Sitka spruce and western
yellow pine are the chief woods used,
amounting together to approximately
ninety million board feet annually.
The largest consumers are the can
neries and orchards.
The southern States contain the
only remaining important hardwood
supply of the temperate zone, not
only of the United States but proba
bly of the entire world.
There are 392 consumers of tannin
in the United States, who use an
nually 625,000 cords of' hemlock
hark, 290,000 cords of oak bark, and
380,000 cords of chesnut wood.
One hundred and thirty thousand
,o,w f t.hn National Forests will be
since the day he opened up for bus- d(strlbuted this summer. These maps
iness. show the best camp sites, good hunt-
Boardman is building to the future , . fisl,ln Lrrounds. roads, trails,
and every time a warn is mm, h. . . telephone lines, and give airec-
not of the board walk variety but oi Uong how to reacn points 0f interest
solid concrete. Tlie streets are mm
off in a systematic manner, being a
contrast to the pioneer towns which
sort of grew up with the trees and
other vegetation and followe'd the
lines of the least resistance.
. There are 20,000 acres of land sub
ject to irrigation lying tributary to
the town ot Boardman. Many set
tlers are takng up land there and it
will be only a few years, say those
STATE ASSOCIATION
The Oregon State Editorial asso-
iation deserves the absolute loyalty
who are in the best position to know, Qf evpry edltor and publisher in Ore
until the Boardman country will be measure of coop-
finement when she was taken with a
severe case of pleurisy. From this
she appeared to be recovering, how
ever, and on Sunday evening was
much improved, seemingly, and rest
ed quite well until near twelve o'
clock when she awoke and com
plained of being very sick and suffer
ing from a pain in the heart and be
fore a doctor could be summoned she
had passed away. Funeral services
were held for her at the schoolhouse
n Morgan on Tuesday at 11, Clar
ence w. Keynoios, pastor oi me
Christian church at lone, preaching
the sermon, and burial services were
held at the cemetery at that place
under the auspices of Locust Chapter
Eastern Star, of lone, of which Mrs
Ely was a member. The funeral was
very largely attended by the friends
and neighbors of the deceased from
Morgan and lone, as she was held in
high esteem by all who knew her.
Josephine Adams was born in Yak
ima, Wash., November 14, 1887, and
riiPrt nt Tone. Oregon. August 20
1916. She was united in marria;
to Geo. N. Ely at the home of her
parents at Salem, Oregon, on June
22. 1912, the issue of this union De
inir two children, a son aged two
years and a daughter 3 weeks old
At the time of her marriage she was
engaged in teaching, and had taught
two years in this county at Ella, mi
Ely was a woman of splendid charac
ter and attainments, had been a faith
ful member of the Methodist churcli
for the oast eight years and passed
to her reward in the full hope of
Christian faith. Her taking away at
this time is particularly sad, and the
husband and sorrowing relatives have
the sincerest sympathy of this com
munity
thickly populated and a once sandy
desert will be transformed into green
fields and peaceful, contented homes.
eration, said G. Lansing Hurd, of the
O. A. C. Extension, in a recent ad
dress. It is the greatest opportunity
fur the upbuilding of the industry
from a commercial standpoint and in
crease of the dignity and effectiveness
E. E. Brodie, president, and Phil
S. Bates, secretary, of the Oregon
stHtn Editorial Association, passed
i,rnrii llennner Monday on their
wav to Pendleton, La uranae ami of the newspaper Dusiness we nave
i!ur. On their trip they are Inter- , ,
viewing the various newspaper puo- bg istently loyal to
Slnd wTE Sner 11 en- this Institute of mutual helpfulness
tertalned at disner by George T. and the protection of each other and
Pearce and Arthur U. c-rawiora. tne protection of the capital invesieu
The gentlemen are traveling in Mr, k bUKmeSs.
Brodie's M.t.nen .x - Under the magnificent leadership
rennrt the roads in the main pan
being goon They are traveling over of President Brodie and Secretary
Hip Blue Trail. Bates who have given so patriotically
, . and unselfishly of their tune and er-
We will loan money on su , . nou.unllnor ,laineSs of Ore-
r,vrt farms in Morrow county ana
. " nrsnnred to make loans gon has been helped in many ways
.,n Imnroved stock ranches. H you Newspapers are more prosperous and
desire a loan come ana see us-it uu influential than ever before; newspa-
want a loan on Heppner residence contented with
property we n amnge It for you. & greater gelf n
OiurBU w v. i
S 1R 'I
i it xi-t mil (iro-onl.
Miss Svbil Cason of lone came up L,ocai, a.smd, o. ..... "
to this city last Wednesday afternoon. Unions must be encouraged, ior
aim will make her home nere uu tl,rn..h thea(, the editors may get
winter with her parents, Mr. anu mrs. requent touch with each other
EW STOCK BARNS
FOR FftlH EX
81
TORS
air Board Actively EiiKa.sjeU in Mak
ing Fourth Annual Kvent Best
in History.
PENDLETON MAY BRING
SPECIAL TRAIN TO FAIR
and compare notes. When one news
paper has made a remarkable or note
worthy success along the line of com
munity btterment, or affecting its
W. C. Cason, who are moving to this
city this week
r-w A. PhioDS, secretary of the
Oregon State Sunday School Assocla-
JZlHT .-r.t the own particular business its methods
V 7 K Notson while in the may be studied in editorial gatherings
clty and when the editors return to their
homes they can make application of
Those who did not receive pre- tn(j lntorniution and advice received
mhim lists for the Fourth Annual . tllB,r neighbor's experience, so
uwmw county Fair may obtain cop- . , thelr own efforts, more
les at the various postoluces in the frulttui T),e local organizations will
countv. Un the very nature of things, sumu
' , , late greater interest i-.i the state asso-
Mrs. Chas. Sperry and daughter, c)ntlon; and e(mors, after attending
mic- Hen trice and son Wayne, and ... ... come to
i.nt... " . llCC7l.lllha - .
Mrs. Ritchie of lone, motoreu up to thftt t)eir field ls not conflned to
their own particular community, but
that they are citizens and leaders of
thought of the whole state and their
outlook will be broadened and they
will be bigger and better ana more
capable.
this city last Saturday afternoon
Auto to Crater Lake,
Harold Colin and Calvin L. Sweek
left Heppner Wednesday morning in
the former's Ford car for Crater
Lake. They expect to take several cJ &g B gperry( the T0ne wheat
weeks for the trip and will spend the buyer transacted business in this city
time in hunting and fishing. From a few hours last Wednesday
. 11 u I "
"?i,n" t r ay . and m. w.u of
ai hundred of The Teiue Trail signs lone were visitors in Heppner .as,
which they will put up along the wee
route and at various nove.s illt,gfactorH, k. Br.
ages where they stop. Before return- - . ratnn4i. Hit
Ing home Mr. Cohn and Mr. Sweek fUjM n reM0MMe, an ke U where
expect to mak a trip Into the Harney JW eM always tne nla. Ne charge
country. f er ttrttag eyes. tt
Combines are running in different
narts of the country about lone an
in everv instance the grain is yield
ing better than was expected. Grant
Olden has begun his harvest, and he
finds that he will be in need of about
double the quantity of sacks first es
timated. Similar reports to this are
enmine iii daily. The country to th
nnrth of lone and east of Morgan i:
also piling up the biggest crop in
manv years, and the continual mount
ing of prices makes the outlook very
encouraging for these people who
have been up against pretty naro
digging for a number of seasons.
A quite wedding was celebrated at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. l. m
Schrlver in this city on Sunday morn
ing last at 8:00 o'clock when their
daughter, Sarah Jennie was unuea
in marriage to Mr. Clifford R. Smith
of Dallas, Oregon, Dr. D. M. Metzer,
of La Mars, Iowa, performing the cer
emony. The young people departed
on the train following an elaborate
wedding breakfast, for their future
home at Dallas, where Mr. Smith has
a nnsltion as bookkeeper in one of
the banks there. These young people
were formerly students under Dr.
Metzer at Dallas.
Dr. D. M. Metzer, of La Mars, Iowa.,
visited with the family of C. M. Sch
rlver over Sunday. Dr. Metzer is
dean of Western Union College of
La Mars, and for many years was a
resident of Dallas, this state where
he was engaged in educational work
and where he became a friend of the
Schrlver family. He was greatly
pleased with what he saw while here
and enjoyed a ride through a portion
of our farming country. He depart
ed Monday morning for his Eastern
home.
It is the intention of the county
court to see that a general strawing
of the roads is begun before wheat
hauling sets in; this providing they
are able to get teams to do the work
The straw can be had and it would
seem that this will have to be done
in order to get the roads in any shape
at all to get the crops to the railroad
Peter Nash, for many years a high
lv resDected citizen of Cecil, died ear
ly Monday at his home at that place
at an advanced age. He was tne tain
er of Frank Nash, formerly residing
at lone and Heppner, but now a res
Ident of Pendleton.
One dollar twenty tor wheat was
the price paid in lone yesterday, and
a few small lots changed hands at
this figure. Farmers are not anxious
to sell just now though the price is
alluring.
The Morrow County Fair Board is
now actively engaged in making the
fourth annual event the greatest in
the history of the instituion. Since
its inauguration, the Board has look
ed forward to the time when the
tock exhibitions would rise to a high
degree of excellence. To accomplish
this they have realized that a suit
able pavilion for housing horses, cat
tle, sheep and hogs would have to be
established. Otherwise stockmen
would not care to bring in their
stock. Barns are now being con
structed for this purpose. They are
arranged for the greatest convenience
of "the stock, the exhibitors and the
Fair crowds. In the horse bams are
28 stalls. These are all box stall?
with eates. The Board laid their
plans to conserve every available fool
of space and in this they have suc
ceeded. Secretary Smead is of the
opinion that the stock erhibits wil
be more complete this year than a'
any previous Fair.
The amusement features are now
all signed up. All Zada, who Has no.
missed a single Fair since the firs!
one four years ago, will be on hand
with his Punch and Judy show for
the benefit of the children. He will
also appear in tricks of magic. He
has several new ones for the benefit
of his audiences this year. Ali Zada
will close a successful season at the
Oaks Park in Portland early in Sep
tember.
It will be of Interest to local people
to know that Andrew Loney, cornetist
with Parson's band of Portland, ls
playing with the La Grande Elks
Band ajld will be here witn mat or
eanizatlon. 0. G. Crawford, former
ly of this city, Is also a member o
the band and will be nere
The Board has been fortunate in se
curing the Portland Ad Club Quartet
This is one of the best musical or-
conizations in the city of Portland
They made their appearance here in
1914 and were given a big ovation
Many concessions have been sold
bv the Board. There will be a mer
rv-irn-round. Ferris wneel, oog an
nonv show, African jungle and girl
show, Herbert Munter in daily aero
plane flights and dancing.
While in Pendleton last week, W.
W. Smead put up the proposition to
the Pendleton people to bring a spec
ial tiain to the Fourth Annual Mor
row County Fair. The suggestion
was met with favorably and this will
in all likelihood be done. The
Round-L'p City tame over in full
force at the time of the 1914 fair.
The same week, their businessmen
sent a special train tu Spokane. This
ear they are planning a special trip
o Baker and the return will be made
in time to start for Heppner. It has
been suggested that the same equip
ment could be used for both trips.
ti,o Rnnrd has arranged for in
teresting lectures on subjects pertain
ine to aErlculture, horticulture an
stock raising. These lectures will be
eiven by men who are specialists i
their line and they will have some
thine entirely worth while.
Stock judging contests will be one
of the features of the three days.
Miss Johanna Grae of Wilbur, Ore
gon, will jiiQge'ine icauic
mpnt. Miss Grae was one oi in
judges in this department at the
State Fair last year.
La Grande Men Visit.
A nartv consisting of Turner Oli
ver. J. R. Oliver, B. r . Wyioe ana c.
E. Lewis, arrived in Heppner Wed
nesday night from La Grande. Tur
ner Oliver is a prominent attorney in
the Union county metropolis and
came over to Heppner to attend to
some legal business. Mr. Oliver has
been prominently identified with ure
gon politics for many years. He has
erved as county clerk of union coun-
ty, represented nis oisinci m "
State senate and has been mentioned
many times for supreme court judge.
Mr. Oliver is a Democrat, but stands
ilghty well with his home people.
SECOND ARTESIAN
FLOW IS STRUCK
.Yen Ion Has Another Big Well. Far
mer Smith Heads New Company
For Development of Model
Diversified Turin.
WORK I'OK GOOD ROADS.
When it takes four horses to pull
an empty wagon to town and wheat
going up in price each day; when
he mail carrier gives up in despair,
and the children cannot get to school,
the farmer cannot help wondering
how much this condition is costing
him each day.
Figure as he may, he cannot get
away from the fact that good roads
are indispensable to agricultural pros
perity.
The city dweller is alike concerned.
The farm on a good road has scores
of possibilities for the development of
its resources to everyone open to the
farm on a poor road. Increased prof
its mean increased expenditures
greater buying powers.
In the early days of poverty many
a county bonded itself for hundreds
of thousands of dollars to secure rail
roads and to promote agricultural de-
elopment. Three-fourth of all the
freight the railroad haul must soon
er or later move over the public high
ways, and every ton so moved is cost
ing at an average rate of 23 cents per
mile.
Verily, road improvement is a bus
iness proposition a matter of dol
lars and cents. Oregon Country.
The second artesian well in Mor
row county lias been struck. W. D.
Newlon is the man who accomplished
this feat a second time and the new
well, which is in the same belt as the
first one, is producing a much larger
flow of water. The new well appar
ently has not diminished the flow of
water in the first gusher in the least.
In October, 1915, on the R. B. Rice
farm in the Strawberry section, the
discovery or opening up of the first
artesian well in Morrow county was
celebrated. However, Mr. Newlon
was not satisfied with the flow of wa
ter and at once set about drilling an
other well. His efforts have been re
warded with this latest success.
Mr. and Mrs. Newlon recently pur
chased the Rice farm and in collab
oration with "Farmer" Smith, the
veteran agriculturist of the Oregon
Washington Railroad & Navigation
Co., will operate two model diversi
fied farms. They have already placed
their order for two 100-ton silos, the
first progressive step in working out
their plans. "Farmer" Smith de
clares he wouldn't be on a farm with
out a silo.
Considerable demonstration work
has been carried on by Mr. Smith the
past few months on the Millet ranch.
Newlon's upper farm. Corn and field
peas, bald barley spring sown, and
wheat are evidence of-wnai can oe
done with these crops on dry hills un
der proper cultivation.
Continued opening up oi artesian
wells In that vicinity will serve as a
great impetus to the agricultural de
velopment of the country there. Un
der a ditch are several hundred acres
subject to irrigation.
The first load of the 191 j wheat
crop arrived in Heppner this week.
The Federated Church.
Closins; dav of the year at the
Federated church nett huiuiaj . -i
m. Communion service. 8 p. m.
instrumental and vocal music pro
gram with closing address by the pas
tor. .
The annual conference of the M. r...
Church will convene at Walla Walla,
August 31, Bishop Lambuth presid
ing. Preceding the annual confer
ence an efficiency conference will be
held, beginning next Tuesday at 8 p.
m. A number of representative
men of the church will be present.
W. B. Smith, Pastor.
Portland Telegram.
Portland's grocers are almost un
animous in their indorsement of pro
hibition, according to Robert G. Dun
can, manager of the Retail Grocers
association.
"Why, prohibition lias made a pro
hibitionist out of me," said Duncan
today.
Duncan is confident that the gro
cers will be instrumental in keeping
Oregon in the prohibition column
"I'll tell you why," said Duncan
"The grocers are helped wonderfully
in the matter of collections. Men
who used to duck their grocery bills
are now prompt payers and their fam
ilies are not going hungry.
"We used to have many wives come
to this office begging for leniency in
the matter of bringing action to col
lect legitimate bills. For example, a
fireman's wife came in here one day
last year and begged for time. She
said that her husband had a way of
getting drunk on pay day and when
drunk, he turned to crap shooting. As
a result she got little of the money
for household expenses. He had con
tracted a bill of $110 with one gro
cer and six other food firms were
losers by his acts.
"Since the state went dry, that man
has not only been prompt in his pay
ments, but he has almost paid up his
former indebtedness. I saw his wlte
the other day. She is a different look
ing woman.
"Personally, I opposed prohibition
until I saw the good it did. I can
ride in my auto now without fear of
being rammed by a drunken autoist;
I can go home on a streetcar without
melling a poluted breath or listening
to some liquor-laden argument.
The grocers are for prohibition.
Walter Drum and family of Hard-
man are visiting in the city today.
Mrs. Walter Cason and daughter
Sybil are visiting at the nome oi
Mrs. George Hendry.
Three young work horses for sale
at a bargain. Jrrann wmnaru,
Headquarters Ranch.
R. B. Rice, who recently sold his
farm in the Strawberry country, Is
spending a. few days in the city.
Attorney C. E. Woodson and fam
ily returned the last of the week from
an extensive motor tour of central
Oregon.
FARMERS I pay the highest
market price for grains of aU kinds.
Consult with me before selling.
W. W. SMEAD.
Wm. Brookhouser has been suffer
ing from a case of blood poisoning
the result of bruising one of his legs
on a piece of iron. Under the doc
tor's care, he is rapidly improving.
His son underwent an operation the
past week for the removal of hi:, ton
sils and adnoids.
(Continued on Page 8)
Bartholomew Has Fine Crops.
Chas Bartholomew of Little But
ter creek has some fine crops this
vear. as a recent trip to his ranch re
vealed. At the present time Mr. Bar
tholomew is engagtd in combiuing a
laree field of wheat which is making
a big yield. Just across the fence is
a splendid field of corn. Besides the
bumper hill crops this year, Mr. Bar
tholomew is reaping an abundant
harvest of hay on the creek.
HVGHES' HVMAX SIDE.
Charles E. Hughes, Republican
nominee for President, State Chair
man Charles L. McNary and Walter
L. Tooze, Jr., of Polk county, stood
at Crown Point, on the Columbia
Highway, absorbed in the beauty and
grandeur of the scene. The silence
was broken by Mr. Toozs, who said:
Isn't It wonderful Charley?" Mr.
Hughes spoke up quickly: "It ls
indeed wonderful." Mr. Tooze has
tened to explain that he didn't intend
to get gay, that his remark was In
tended for "Charley" McNary. But
the significant feature of the inci
dent of course was Mr. Hughes' ac
ceptance of the familiar salutation
from a comparative stranger, as a
matter of course. The iceberg bub
ble is "busted."
Olin Hayes arrived in the city Wed
nesday afternoon from The Dalles
with one of the new model Fords for
Vaughn & Sons. The new car has
some marked improvements over the
old model, in that the radiator is larg
er, has no brass trimmings, and the
fenders are crowned, thereby giving
the car a much more pleasing appear
ance. Several of these cars have al
ready been purchased by local people.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Teople of Morrow county who
want concessions at the Morrow
County Fair should make their choice
of location at once as outside con
cessionaires are asking for space
dailv, and it is the desire of the
Board to give home people first choice
where possible.
W. W. SMEAD, Secretary.
THE WEATHER
The following is the report of the
weather for the past week as given us
by Cooperative Observer Frank Gilliam:
Temp.
d
Q
S a t
s o J5
16 73 63 Clear
17 62 48 .01 Part Clear
18 62 44 Clear
19 70 37 Clear
20 74 41 Clear
21 81 45 Clear
23 8 9 Clear
