4 ft ar n I.
First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec.l and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
I"
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, APRIL, 21, 1916.
NUMBER 9
Work Has Begun On
Maui County Fair
Committee Organizes With Enthusi
asm Time and Place Decided Up
on Wadsworth Makes Guarantee
Maul will open its first county fair
on npxt Thanksgiving Day. This was
the decision of the fair executive com
mittee which held its first meeting
on last Monday afternoon at the Wai
luku Town Hall. The bis event is to
start on Thursday, November 30, and
wind up on Saturday, December 2. It
was also decided that Wailuku was
the place best suited at the present
time for holding the fair.
The meeting which was called by
Chairman It. A. Wadsworth, got down
to business at once by electing Angus
McPhee as treasurer and J. Garcia.as
secretary. Later D. T. Fleming was
elected vice-president, when It seemed
that such an official might como in
handy.
Besides the chairman, who was
chosen at the general meeting of citi
zens held some weeks ago, the follow
ing members were present: AngusMc
Phee, Maul Racing Association; J.
Garcia, Chamber of Commerce; D. T.
Fleming, Board of Supervisors; Dr. J.
C. Fitzgerald, Board of Agriculture
and Forestry; James Lindsay, Haiku
Farmers' Association; F. G. Krauss,
Hawaii Experiment Station; E. C,
Moore, Extension Division; Vm. Mc
Cluskey, Department of Public Instruc
tion; Dr. Wm. Osmers, Territorial
Board of Health. The committee was
added to by the election of F. C. Locey
of Haiku; Fred A. Clowes of Lahaina
luna; and Will J. Cooper of Wailuku.
The spirit of optimism evident
throughout the meeting indicates that
the fair will be a great success. All
of the committee were enthusiastic ov
er the prospects, and from the reports
made the same feeling exists general
ly all over the island.
No Limit On Exhibitors
It was decided by the committee that
exhibits of all classes should be wel
comed from all over the territory, and
that it would be a mistake to attempt
to confine the enterprise to local ex
hibitors. At the next meeting, which is to be
called within a short time by the chair
man, It Is expected that the scope of
the fair will be definitely decided up
on, and chairmen of sub-committees
named to handle the different branch
es. It was the sense of the meeting
that much care should be exercised in
this matter of organizing, In that
much depends upon this for the
smooth working out of the ideas de
cided upon.
Everybody's Fair
Another important policy empha
sized was that the fair shall not be
(Continued on page 6)
County To Begin Suits
Against Hart's
Bond
Action Is to be begun at once in the
courts against the bondsmen of Ed
mund K. Hart, former circuit court
clerk who Is now serving a minimum
of 4 years In the penitentiary for em
bezzlement of court funds. This act
ion was decided upon by the board of
supervisors last Saturday, and County
Attorney E. R. Bevins was instructed
accordingly. The supervisors took the
matter up on a statement from the
county auditor, showing a shortage of
between f 5000 and 16000. Hart was un
der bond at the time of his arrest, In
the sum of $2500, with W. T. Robin
son and A. Garcia as sureties. This
bond covers only the period that Hart
held office after the appointment of
Judge Edings to the bench, a new
bond having been required of him at
that time. The shortage during this
period accounts to some $1800, and is
therefore fully covered.
County attorney Bevins has noti
fied Hart's previous bondsmen that
the county will look to them for the
reimbusement of the county for Hart's
defalcation during the time their
bond existed, to the extent of that
liability, which was also for $2500.
The bondsmen in this instance were
F. F. Baldwin, Pia Cockett, W. L.
Decoto and W. T. Robinson.
Unless the bondsmen fight the case
in the courts and win, the county will
be reimbursed to the extent of some
$4300. It is stated that it is possible
that a fight against payment of the
bond money may be made on ground
that the county auditor was negligent
in his duty In not having kept a check
on the clerk. Should this be sustain
ed. Attorney Bevins stated yesterday
that it will probably be necessary to
sue on the bond of Auditor Wilcox.
As it looks now, the county will lose
some $1100 through the insufficiency
of Hart's bond.
New Member Of Promotion Committee
Cyril O. Smith, supervisong princ
ipal of the Kauai schools, has been ap
pointed as Kauai member of the Ha
waii Promotion Committee. He suc
ceeds D. P. U. Isenberg, resigned.
Maui Pinkhamites
Win Delegateship
Raymond and Lyons Elected For Con
vention Dut McCandless Wing Wins
Committeeman Claims of Fraud
While it seems generally conceded
that Dr J . H. Raymond won by a
few votes the delegateship to the de
mocratic national convention, and
thus scored a victory for the Pinkham
democrats on Maul, it is probable that
the democratic central commute may
take a hand In the local row and
possibly throw out some of the Ray
mond votes on ground of fraud. Both
factions have been accusing each
other of crooked work at the last
Saturday party election on this island,
ever since the returns began to come
in.
While charges of various irregula
ties or fraud practices are made con
cerning the voting In various pre
cincts, Paia and Hana are the chief
bones of contention. The McCand
less faction claims that at Hana,
through the machinations of H. E.
Palaklko, 35 ballots were cast by one
man, ,on "proxy". At Paia the Pink
hamites claim that no precinct club
ever existed, and that the 41 ballots
cast for Keohokalole were really de
posited by republicans.
The returns from the Molokal settle
ment, which were not received until
Tuesday, was majority to Raymond
and the Pinkham ticket, and definitely
gave Raymond the lead of 25 votes.
In, case the Paia and Hana returns
are both thrown out, Raymond will of
course still be in the lead.
Warm Fight At Settlement
From reports reaching here from
the Molokal settlement it seems that
a warm fight took place in the Kala
upapa precinct, where the vote stood
27 for Raymond and 22 for Keohoka
lole. At the precinct club election J.
K. Kalnuwal, the old president, was
overthrown by J. Kamealoha by a vote
of 42 to 7; while Lui Luaiki beat Pa
hlo Liilii for vice-president by a vote
of 38 to 6.
The best available returns show the
results of the contest on Maul as fol
lows :
For national committeeman W. P.
Jarrett, 198; John H. Wilson, 228.
For delegate to the national con
ventionMorris K. Keohokalole, 222;
Dr. J. H. Raymond, 247.
For alternate T. B. Lyons, 248;
Eugene Murphy, 194.
For members territorial committee
Final returns from the Molokal
settlement have not been received for
committeemen, and may change re
sult. As it stands without these fig
ures the figures are: Jerry Burns, 291;
John N. Halemano, 336; Nelson K.
Kaloa, 285; George P. Kauimakaole,
304; Henry C. Mossman, 354; J. T.
Unea, 292; John Wilcox, 282. The
six receiving the highest vote will be
elected.
Sunday Movies Ordinance
Soon To Be Acted Upon
Despite a number of petitions a
gainst the proposal, the supervisors,
last Saturday instructed the County
Attorney to prepare an ordinance cov
ering the authorization of moving pict
ures on Sundays in the county. The
proposed ordinance will be acted upon
at the next meeting of the board. The
board specified (hat the new ordi
nance shall limit the time of holding
Sunday performances to between 6:30
and 9 p. m. It was later stated by
some of the members that this may be
changed to 9:30 p. m., since in most
of the picture houses it is not dark
enough to show the pictures at 6:30
o'clock.
In connection with the petitions a
gainst the proposed ordinance, the
fact that the same names appeared on
several peUtions, and also that the
same handwriting seemed to be in evi
dence in different ones, probably re
sulted in their having less weight than
they might otherwise have had.
Filipino Embezzler
Gets Stiff Sentence
Pedro Ardecia, a Maul Filipino, who
beat it to the Coast some time ago
with about $fi00 which other Filipinos
had entrusted to him to get them
liomos and flobs on the mainland,
pleaded guilty in the Honolulu police
court on Monday and was sentenced
to 3 years in the penitentiary. Ardecia
was arrested in San Francisco after
his treachery had been discovered, and
was brought back last week. The
following are the men who claim to
have lost money through Ardecia:
Cleto Dupusamia claims to have turn
ed over $70 to Ardecia; Dominia
Doran, $80; Saturnia Flores,$95; An
dres Krmitaca, $100; Rufurio Tulou,
$90; Lucias Tullard. $S0; Pedro iian
nias, $55; and Felix Sabin, property
and cash aggregating $37.
Held For Tampering
With Witnesses
Filipino Must Answer Murder Charge
Friend In Serious Trouble For
Trying To Help Him
In the district court this week,
Narciseo Tolojo, the Wniknpu Filipino
shot and killed a fellow contryman,
Alfanso Dalang, and also shot but not
fatally the woman in the case, Mrs.
Maria Rollino Bagoa, was given a
hearing on charge of first degree
murder, and was committed to answer
an indictment by the next grand jury.
As a result of this case, Antonio
Gillen, a personal friend of the ac
cused, is now also in jail on charge
of subordination of perjury, and five
other Filipinos are also being held a?
witnesses. At the hearing, when the
several witnesses were asked to sign
their sworn statements made before
the coroner's jury, they refused, and
finally admitted that Iheir story at
that time was false. They then dec
lared that they had sworn falsely at
the investigation of Gillen, who told
them that Tolojo would be released
if they did.
It appears further that Gillen made
a strong effort to get all of the import
ant witnesses in the case away from
Maui, and was trying to raise the mo
ney to send them from the territory.
In order to frustrate any other such
plan the witnesses have been taken
in custody.
The woman who was shot through
the right breast by Toloja, is now out
of the hospital, her wound proving not
to be of serious nature.
o .
Wasedas Will Play
Two Games On Maui
Through the efforts of a local Jap
anese hui, the Waseda baseball team
which recently arrived in Honolulu
from Japan and has been playing a
series of games with the various Ho
nolulu teams, will arrive on Maui next
Wednesday to try conclusions with an
all-Maui aggregation. Twn ranm will
be played, the first on Saturday, April
28 and the second on the Sunday fol
lowing. A meeting of the Maui Athletic As
sociation was held last Monday night
when the matter was considered, M.
G. Paschoal was appointed manager
for the team to meet Wasedas, and
Foster Robinson, captain. George
Cummings was also named umpire for
the two games. The local association
is to have 10 per cent of the gross
receipts of the meet, and expenses are
being taken care of by the Maui Jap
anese interested in the matter.
From reports of the games played
in Honolulu, local fans believe that the
Maui team will be able to give a first
class account of itself.
New Main Building
For Wailuku Hotel
Mrs. G. K. Trimble, proprietor of
the Wailuku Hotel, has completed
plans for replacing her present main
hotel building with a new structure
at a cost of about $10,000. Work will
begin on the improvements within a
short time. The new house will be
50 by 90 feet in size, two stories
high, with commodious lobbv and
dining room, and with 9 sleeping
rooms and baths on the second tloor.
During the time the improvements
are in progress the hotel will be loc
ated in the house formerly occupied
by W. S. Chillingworth, a' few doors
further down the street.
WILL AMEND
GARAGE ORDINANCE
The proposed garage ordinance for
the county of Maui was not passed
at the last week's meeting of the su
pervisors, going over till the next
meeting for the purpose of having
certain amendments made which had
been suggested. Although there was
a strong protest made by automobile
men of Wailuku and Lahaina, it
seems likely that the measure will be
passed in its amended form. Tins
will require that any building used
for thc purpose of a public garage,
and located within 20 feet of any
building, shall be provided with con
crete tloor and be lined with metal,
or other fireproof material to a height
of 6 fcet above the floor.
WILL REPAIR
IAO VALLEY ROAD
The county t.ngineer has been in
structed by the supervisors to take
steps immediately to put in repair
the Iao Valley road as far up as Un
washed out bridge brlow Kapaniwat.
He is also, as soon as rou inicnt,
make a survey for a new road into the
upper reaches of the Valley which has
born inaecessable to vehicles of any
kind ever since the Hood in January.
It is not the intention of ihe county
to build this road immediately.
Big Preparation
For Polo Game Ball
'aui-0a!iu Contest To He Followed By
Swell Society Affair Of Season
Honolulu Visitors Expected
The Maui polo team isn't doing
much talking these days, but It is do
ing a very great amount of strenuous
practice in preparation for the first
game of the season against the Oahu
Tour. Those who have seen the prac
tise maiehes played every few days on
the new Keahua. field, are very confi
dent us to the outcome of the game
which is to be played on Sat urday.May
(I. Horses, tield, and men are all in ex
tra fine condition, it ;s declared and
O hu wi'l hare to do some unusually
.ia'sy playir. ; :o win. The Maui team
and line-up v I p.obaMy to iho same
as last year- Baldwin, Collinu, Rice
and Fleming.
A return game, to be played in Hon
olulu on June 11, has already been
practically decided upon. The big
tournament, in which various army
teams will also take part, will come
off probably some time in August.
Ball Will Be Big Feature
The Maui Racing Association ball to
be held on the evening of May 6, fol
lowing the polo game, promises to e
clipse the one of last year, though that
will of course be difficult. It will
also be en masque as well. It is
probable that quite a number of soci
ety folk of Honolulu will come over
to attend the polo game and the dance.
The list of the patronesses of the
ball, which was made up last week is
as follows:
Wailuku Mrs. II. 15. Penhallow,
Mrs. D. P. Penhallow, Mrs. C.
D. Lufkin, Mrs. A. N. Kepoikai, Mrs.
Geo. Weight, Mrs. W. M. Weddick,
Mrs. L. M. Baldwin, Mrs. J. C. Villiers,
Mrs. R. 1!. Dodge, Mrs. W. L. West,
Mrs. W. S. Chillingworth, Mrs. E. II.
Hart C. Crowell, Mrs.J. L. Osmcr, Mrs.
V. C. Schoenberg, Mrs. W. T. Robin
son, Mrs. (!. A. Hansen, Mrs. Geo. Wil
bur, Mrs. L. R. Mathews, Mrs. J. Gar
cia, Mrs. McPhee, Mrs. R. A. Wads
worth, Mrs. D. II. Case, Mrs. W. II
Field, Mrs. Enos Vincent, Mrs G. K.
Trimble, Mrs. E. R Bevins, Mrs. Frank
Crawford, Mrs. Cans. Cowan, Mrs. G.
N. Weight, Mrs. I, C Jones, Mrs. Thos.
Cummings, Mrs. A. C. Rothrock, Mrs.
II. Streubeck, Mrs. O J Whitehead,
Mrs. E. Murphy, Mrs. W. E. Hal, Sr.,
Mrs. P. It. Ross, Mrs. E. Zithkowskl,
Mrs. Kinney, Mrs. Foss, Mrs W.' L.
Pogue, Mrs. Vctlo Vetlesen, Mrs. Gross
Mrs. Pia Cockett, Mrs. Frank Hoogs,
Mrs. E. Soper.
Makawao Mrs. II. P. Baldwin,
Mrs. F. W. Hardy, Mrs. S. A.
Baldwin, Mrs. J E Tavares, Mrs Edgar
Morton, Mrs. David Morton, Mrs. Dora
Von Tenipsky, Mrs. W. O. Aiken.
Haiku Mrs. W. D. Baldwin,
Mrs. W. A. Baldwin, Mrs. C. G. White,
Mrs. Will J. Cooper, Mrs. F. G. Krauss,
Mrs. II. M Wells, Mrs. W. I. Wells,
Mrs. Carl Sommerfeld, Mrs. A S Gil
more. Hamakuapoko Mrs. A. W. Collins,
Mrs. II. D. Sloggett, Mrs. S. E. Tavlor,
Mrs. M. B. Hair.
Haiku Mrs V. D. Baldwin, Mrs.
W. A. Baldwin, Mrs C. G. White, Mrs.
F. G. Krauss, Mrs. II. M. Wells, Mrs.
Carl Sommerfeld, Mrs. W. J. Wells,
Mrs. A. S. Gilmore.
Lahaina Mrs. S. Weinzheimer, Mrs.
K. Zedtwilz, Mrs. Geo. Keeney, Mrs.
W. I,. Decoto, Mrs. John Little, Mrs.
.1. E. Gannon, Mrs. A. Valentine,
l'uunene Mrs. L. F. Baldwin, Mrs. J.
B. Thomson, Mrs. Ben Williams, Mrs.
Wm. Searby, Mrs. C. C. Campbell,
Mrs. Wm. Louther, Mrs. J. C. Fitz
gerald, Mrs. J. T. Fan torn, Mrs. Beggs,
Mrs. F. E. Sawyer.
Kahului Mrs. Wm. Walsh, Mrs.
Jack Walsh, Mrs. I'd. Walsh, Mrs. W.
A. Sparks, Mrs. Aiken, Mrs. J. W.
L. Dale, Mrs. King, Mrs. Jennings,
Mrs. E. II. Parker.
Paia Mrs. II. W. Rice, Mrs.T. P.
Rosecrans, Mrs. E. J. Walker, Mrs.
W. T. MeConkey, Mis. Rogers, Mrs.
Hall, Mrs. D. !. Murdoch, Mrs. W. A.
Clark, Mrs. L. K. Smith.
PASSION PLAY PICTURES
TO BE SHOWN AT KUIAHA
An interesting set of lantern slides
of the great Oberammergau Passion
I'lay are to be evhihiied at the Kuiaha
school house tomorrow evening by E.
('. Moore. The pictures have been
loaned to Mr. Moore by Theodore
Richards, of the Hawaiian Board.
The exhibition is free and a general
invitation is extended to all.
NO PUBLIC MEETING ON
SALOON QUESTION WANTED
The board of liquor license com
missioners held a me. 'ting yesterday
afternoon at whi h the advisability of
calling a public meeting to consider
the proposition of not granting any
new saloon licenses, or renewals of
present saloon licenses, was consider
ed. By a vote of " to 2 the board de
cided that such a meeting would not
be advlseable, 1). II. Case and C. D.
Lufkin favoring the motion, and W. F.
Kaae, I). C. Lindsay, and T. B. Lyons
voting against it. The meeting was to
have been held at the Wailuku Town
Hall at lo o'clock Friday morning,
April 2S.
BREAK WITH GERMANY
NOW SEEMS IMMINENT
Nation Back Of President's Demands On Submarine
Policy Mexican Situation Crows More Omin
ous - Russians Send Troops To West Front
WASH I" V,TOX. April 21 ". J. P.ryan. on way to Washington
to fight to a finish the President's policy of calling Germany to account
for submarine outrages. He lias Urn in the thick of a political fight
for delegate to democratic national convention, lie said that to enter
war under any circumstance is nothing short of crime.
Thc sentiment of the whole country swiftly crystalizcd yesterday
in favor of the stand taken by the administration against the form
of submarine warfare carried on by Germany. General opinion is
growing that a break is unavoidable, and that Berlin will not yield to
demands made by the I 'resident but will follow the course she has
adopted since the beginning of the submarine dispute and insist that
her action and of her commanders have been within letter and spirit
of international law. In the country at large the feeling is swiftly
growing that time for break has come. Xo answer to President's de
mands is expected for 10 days.
General Pershing has halted south of Parral, awaiting permission
lo proceed or orders to withdraw. Xo confirmation regarding report
ed death of Villa. Report persists that he was seen alive long after
his' reported death. In dispatches last night Pershing told department
that Carranzistas are lacking in friendliness in co-operating with U.
S. in search of Villa.
LONDON, April 21 Russian transports in long line sailed into
Marseilles and unloaded thousands of troops to aid France. Joffre
says this is a sign of loyalty.
one of the reasons for allowing time for debate on Saturday. Adoption
of the report accepting House bill is considered certain. Following the
1 to 1 vote of the democratic caucus to accept House position without
further fight.
HONOLULU, April 20 Sheriff is certain Policeman Gray is
innocent anil stands by him.
Forbes expense fund is torpedoed by Judge Stuart. He overrules
territorial officials' demurrer to Wilder injunction suit. The decision
raps joy rides and luaus picturesquely.
WASHINGTON', April 20 P.reak with Germany or a con
tinuance of official relations, is now toss-up. Friendly relations rest
on I'.erlin's showing, now that the United States has taken a final stand.
1'elieved it will be three or four days before Germany can decide
definitely upon an attitude and respond, and this time is considered
reasonable. Count von Uernstorff, German ambassador, and Secretary
Lansing conferred today upon the submarine issue as well as upon
arrest of Wolf von Igel, former military attache of German embassy,
now charged with being one of the war plotters in the conspiracy to
dynamite the Welland canal.
I'.ICRLIN, April 20 The American note to Germany arrived here
in full. Ambassador Gerard will probably' present it this afternoon.
PARIS, April 20 Russia is sending considerable number of troops
to battle on the west front with British and French. Number of Rus
sians have disembarked at Marseilles. Announced they are to fight in
France. General Joffre, French commander-in-chief welcomes them
in an address in which he said "Your arrival is another proof of the
devotion of Russia to the common cottse."
XKW YORK, April 20 Russians have closed port of Arch Angel,
on White Sea, except for government traffic and cable use.
PARIS, April 20 France has taken the offensive at Verdun.
French artillery today attacked Germans on right bank of the Meuse,
capturing a portion of trenches, a redoubt and several hundred prisoners.
BKkLlN, April 20 Germans get terrain along British along
I.ange Marche and Ypres after hard lghting.
11 KADQUA RTERS OF U. S. KXPKDlTION IN MEXICO,
WASI1K1NGTON, April 20 Senator Simmons, chairman of
senate finance committe, moved in the upper House today, that the
body should recede from its stand for an amendment to house sugar
bill amendment, limiting tariff to May 1, 1920. He obtained unanimous
consent to have his motion considered, beginning at 1 o'clock on Satur
day. Vote expected on measure at 5 o'clock that day. Senator Ilard
wick desires time to oppose absolute repeal of free sugar plan which is
(Continued on Page Five.)
FISHING IS GOOD NOW
SAYS DAVE FLEMING
David Fleming, the well known Maui
polo player, and recent convert to
game fishing, writes his brother John
Fleming, from the llonolua ranch, ask
ing that he procure him a large reel,
his own having burned out.
"The ulua here are biting like La
haina mosquitoes," he wrote, "and my
reel is to small for the really Mr
ones. As result I have lost about four
fish lately which would have made
your eyes open.
"I saw a big swordflsh in the chan
nel the other day near Kahului, and a
school of seven little ones. This bis
one wouldn't bite but that was all
right, as I am richer by 300 yards of
line and a hook saved."
Fleming stated that Judge Edings is
the latest sportsman on Maui to take
up game fishing. Advertiser.
HOWELL COMPANY LANDS
CULVERT CONTRACT
The Hugh Howell Engineering
Company was last Saturday granted
the contrail for constructing several
concrete culverts on the Wailuku-La-haina
road, south of Waikapu, at its
bid of $L'.l li'. time 40 days. The other
tenders received were J. C. Foss, Jr.,
$:i.!)SS.S"i, lime l." days; and l'icanco
Bros., $2. "tin. J. Einmesley's bid of
$l,!iss g"' in 10 minutes late and was
thrown out, a fact that did not appear
to seriously depress the bidder, pos
sibly for the reason that this tender
was oer IT'"! under the estimate of
the county engineer.
! UNCLAIMED LETTERS AT WAILU-
KU POSTOFFICE
April 20, 1916.
Ah Loy, Lizzie
Cambra, M. T.
Lames, Miss Helen
Knos, Manuel
Garcia, M. T.
L'noka, II. Kikau. (2)
Kahiki, Mrs. E. (2)
Kaimikaua, Mrs. Rose
LeIIatigue, Carlos
Napaila, Mrs. K.
l'aemoku. Elizabeth
I'akahi, Enoka
I'akilial, Antero A.
Tores, Trenidad
Wilcox, Eddio
Wahiue Kapu Apl
MARRIAGE LICENSE
April 14 Duns Chong, 24, Wailuku,
Rebecca Lum Ho, 20, Kahului. Cere
mony by Itev. L. B. Kaumeheiwa.
April 18 Masasuke Fukutomi, 32,
Wailuku, Kiyo Fujlsaka, 19, Wailuku.
Ceremony by Itev. L. 11. Kaumeheiwa.
NATIONAL GUARD GROWTH
REDUCES POLL TAXES
Maui county will have between $4,
Oimi and $",,000 to make in its ordi
nary revenues through the growth of
the national guard. Guardsmen are
exempt from paying the regular $5 per
year poll tax, and the increasing of
the enrollment some 800 or more
cuts down tho tax returns according
ly. The decrease throughout the terri
tory from this cause is estimated at
about 120,000.
