t s
LATEST CAEttD SUGAR QUOTATION'S
r i ' ' OnU Dollar
M Oantr ifaganj W. T. pnr lb per ton
Prlee, Hawaiian basis S.J5 1123.00
. 1 11 " 1 " 1 1 s 1 111
TO
?: -
vut preVlOUS 'quota
tion... .......
S.M $117.80
V
f ;
V HONOLULU HAWAII TERRITORY.' VFUtDAV, APRIL 21,. 1916.-SK1vn-WEEKLY.
WHOLE NUMBER 4132
I;
ill-
tl
i.
it .
Hi
f
1 t
V
i i " I r iin"!
i.u. LLjiUiJ
11 ill! r
J UL
ITTLE
r.'v.nsports In Long Lines Sail
Tcnn
JLU1L J
SCIM
ii-v it to Harbor of Martei lies, and
I J A . . 1. . . . i .
;.;. u-ii0aainousanas ot wzart
;L C h- mcrans Comcto Aid Erance
1 .YVr
PROOF OF. LOYALTY '
LARES GENERAL JOFFRE
Troops Around Battered
de L'Homme Mort, Beat
Teutons, Capturing Post
They Had Lost To Foes
Trim tr Mml Wireless.)
-V. AU 21.-From her e
les reservoir or huqa war
al, Sunla bai bgua pour-
the battleflelda of west
; it , v r, r.iif j What.1 aald to be but
' 1 r"t 1 ' number of aimilar move
' J'Ti ' 1 "'"at", ' 4 jreeterday -whea trane-
1 at Maraeiilee, their baada
, train of i the faraoue
S tionary hymn aad battle
f fceillaJee. while thouaand
'epe gathered at the quay
lb arrival of the veteraa
the command of Oeperal
: : - ' X
Toaora .
Wna bai been mae by
VnmeBt for the official
elnforeementa for
t, and General Loch-
ed with' military boa-
'.Hot pt MaraeiUee, aad
xty ta, v tepreaentinff General
. orrcf nonneota or itrittab and French
pafi", had bea informed of the
' V-rriTal of the trahanorta Dll-
cr the jtuaaiana,v reported Jaat
that the iceae at the docka m
aliant- one. '.-The trannport came
'L I 1 I . . I, I
rititicthe mat harbor of Maraetllea in
frAont Uaea,' and niade directly for the
- berth Tfrepafceif for them.
Proof - of Deration ,
General Lohweauy waa among the
firat to eome aabore, and waa greeted
by General' Ouerin, who presented an
addreM from General Joffre, which de
clared that, ''Your earning here ia an
, other proof, were ne needed, of the uu
awering devotion of BuAii to the com
mon eauae." "
"The arrival of General Lorhnreacy
at Mareelllea was cUacideAt witlr-des-patrhea
that told of the withdrawl of
large numbers of German troops from
the theaters of war in Serbia, Mace
donia anj the Russian front French
reports declare . that the eauae of
this mov by, the Teutonic gen
eral staff ia not the coming of the
Bussiaos but the attff resistance that
haa been made to the drives of the
Germans at . Verdun, and the fearful
loasea suffered by the Teutona in the
fighting there;
French Vlctorionj "
TJiat' fighting continued vesterday
wlt but sUghtly abated fury. The
Trench from their trenches around
'nte de L'Homme Wort attacked the
German positions. . drjvrng the Teutons
Uaek, and retaking portions of their
own trenebea, lost several daya ago.
Th Berlin despatehea in reporting thuf
flghting ran the" French succeeded In
entering the woods of Caillette, and
capturing Giwjnaa trenches, but that
otherwise the Gallic attacks on the
Verdun front yesterday were failures,
and that the losses of the attaekers
were heavy.
' British Lose Tranche
On the portion of the lines defended
br the JlritUh there was heavy JUht
ing, the Garment are reported to have
occupied 6UQ meter On the British po
sitions scar Ypre. The BritiHh con
cede t this toes, but add that the Germans-were-
later etuolled from all of
the ositioiis galneiv s:ivo two mine
crnters, which tbey still bold. One
advanced trench an the line near 8t.
Kloi Ik also still in too hands of the
Germans, .. v .
Russians Mora Forward
In the fighting that ia going on in
the Transeaucue eglon, soth of the
Black Bea, the Russians continued their
victorious advance against the Turks
yesterday, defeating a large body of
the Ottoman forces that was holding
the passes, in the range aoutb of Bitlis.
The Grand Duke's columns pressed ou
successfully toward Sghert. capturing
many prisoners and much booty. The
Slav commanders also' report ueceiw.
ful operations in the Tehoruk region,
southeast of Trebisond, where the
Graud Duke is endeavoring to cross
the mountains and connect his lines
with thove iu the province of Enerura.
These columns are now said to Le ur
ing Baiburt.
According to despatches from Con
stantinople the British' force beseiged
at Kut el Aniara is In desperate strait
( Continued on Page 3 )
inn ptii 1
!. lullllto 0 ILL
i:.?,:ITS ORDERS
VJ1I1LE GREASERS
FOGEIjT HATRED
Washington Tries To Decide. On
Future Operations In Mfexicd
and In Meantime Oeath of Villa
Remains Shrouded In Mystery
AMERICAN EXPEDITION v
MAY SOON BE ATTACKED
Carranzistas Are Massing n
Force In Chihuahua and Show
Clearly To Yankees That They
Are Not Acting In Good Faith
(AMoiU4 rnas tj redsral Wtxslsss.) ,
WASHINGTON, AprU !W With
General Pershing - halted south
of Parral, awaiting permission
to proceed or ordCT to withdraw his
troops from Mexico, with no confirma
tion of the death of Villa, and the
persistence of reports that he was seen
alive aadl. well, song after the date at
hie (apposed death, the aituatioa in
,Mexioo mained inert yeetetdar, save
or. the , eenstamtly growing Irritation
against the presence of the America
i'f VStPt , iW'Wrder,,- tt U. U'
ing manifested by all factions of M ali
en.. . . , ,.-",
' Osneral Panin(t,ylnJeedp M on the
defensive, awaiting- dovelopmenta, and
wjthont news sX VUla, whose death, it
li trae. mtCfVi 'confirmed, but of whom
o-news of Man authentic nature haa
len received for several daya. .
CarranslstM Not Sincere -
In despatehea last night General
Per.hing told the war department that
the Carranaixtaa are "lacking in
friendliness and n all sign of a de
sire to cooperste with us," in the
search for Villa. , i ,
Washington, lacking news of any
sort regarding the authenticity of the
latest Villa reports, which assert that
the bandit leader waa seen two days
before the American troops reached
Parral, passing through the little barrio
of Troy a, east of Parral, ia apparently
hesitating over its future Mexican
policy." To add to the complexity of
the situation advicee from the border
declared that large band of Carranza
soldiers have been reported moving
from Chihuahua state towns in the di
rection of Parral, near where PerahinR
is halted.
War Department Anxious
War department officials make no
attempt to conceal their anxiety over
this latent development of the prob
lem in Mexico, and the despatches from
the border stations hint broadly that
American official tbare are more than
afraid that there will be a clash be
tween Pershing's men and Carranzn
troops before the former can withdraw
from Mexico. It ie regarded as cer
tain that should the Americans attempt
to press any farther south after Villa,
the Carranaistaa Would show armed
opposition.
The sniping of American, troop and
aeroplanes rontinues. Despatches from
headquarters of the punitive expedi
tion, -announced yesterday that aero
planes have bees fired upon several
times, and ia one, case it I known that
Carranza aoliliers did the shooting.
Withdrawal Rumor Again ,
Thi report comes from lieutenaut
Chapman, on of the army aviators.
He reached headquarter yesterday, two
day over due. A significant report
was received her last algbt from Tor
reon. It declares that. Colonel Brown
is now negotiating with General Her
rera, at Parral, bv telephone, regarding
the use of railroads should the American
government decide to withdraw the
troop from Mexico. .- .N
.".
JAPANESE REPRESENTATIVE
SAILS FOR PARIS CONFAB
(ftpMla! Cablsfrsst t sTlpps ixjl4)
TQKIO, April 20, Baron Y. Bakata
mi, who will represent Japan at the
international conference of the Allies
In Paris to discuss the financial sit
uation, will leave Tokio on May 1 for
the French capital.
SMITH TO FLY IN OSAKA
notl Oabltfna t hTlpps JUL)
TOKIO, April 80. Art Smith, tho
American aviai
Osaka April g
tor, will make a flight at
French At Verdun Waiting For Order To Charge
h- -- . y:;' .
r..
SENATE PREPARES
TO ACCEPT HOUSE
IIACT
Father of Bill Extending Duty To
May, ) 920, Paves way For
Wtchin Measure
; Ussseistst PTSS by rsssrat WtrslM)
- WAHlKCrTON April SI. Tho sen
ate. ,1s "preps "-isa: to 'bach down fros Us
tf 1) iCtffi TSfl yiignr legtslat io.
Heuator, tiimmons. the fatheroflthe
senate ibAll repealing the free sugar
clan In the Underwood tariff men
sure, and .ketting s time limit during
which the duty on the staple should
eon tin lie, yertitrdav moved that the- ap
per bona recede from its' attitude, aud
to accept the Kltchin bill as it pawed
the house. Senator Simmons, who is
chairman of, the senate finance com
mittaev; obtained ' the -unanimous' eoa-
sent. of Oj. senate 'ttf-'eonslder his mo
tion tomorrow. The debate wilt begM
at one o'clock. A vote ia expected by
five o'clock Saturday afternoon.
HQNOLULU 8TOCK
MARKET IS WILD
Merchant street was the boslet h'gh
way In. Honolulu yesterday. Telegra
phic advice of the acceptance of the
house position on the sugar tariff by
the senate conferees was rssu-ived just
before midnight WednesdayThe new
spread everywhere and the stock brok
ers were " buying and selling sugar
shares before breakfast.
The non-dividend paying and ldw.
priced stocks were in the lead all day.
Olaa opened on the exchange at 19
but abundant offerings at that figure
caused a drop of half a point. Pioneer
sold at 4 6 Mi Wednesday and could not
be bought for 40ij yesterday. Mo
Rrvde and Honokna jampod two points,
and hnun' there.
Oebu, Ewa and Waialiia rose slightly
and Onomea sold at rtO. The market
in not settled and will not .be until
Washington-Berlin difficulties are either
xmnothed a war or war break. What
will happen then no one knows.
The sidewalks along ."Brokers'
Row" were crowded at eleven o'c'och
with h mob of clerk and messenger
waiting for the posting of the dope
sheets. The selling was mostly profit
taking on earlier buying. Also a ma
jority of "the buyers had, speculative
motives, belierintr that their will or
will not he war with Germany and that
if this should or dies not happen it will
raise or depress the value of sugar and
sugar storks..
It was anybody's market, and none
who hsye ' ieen p'anning what they
would do' -If what happened yesterday
did finally, com to paas knew as much
a they thought they would.
Investment 1 buying of the dividend
paying'stock is still worth while at the
prrs-nt level of values. The statiatiral
poxition of tugar is stronger uow than
it has been for years aud there is evrrr
reanon to believe that the strength will
continue at least three years and prob
ably longer than that. The dividend
SUGAR E
IflT
iiaviuir caiiKcicv nr a tiMiiartv i. tuh.t i
game,
these traders sav.
-
AMERICAN PROFESSOR TO
BECOME YUAN'S ADVISER
(AsssdsUd rrsss by Fsdsrsl Wtralsss.)
PKKINO, April 80. Prof. Westel
Willoughby of Johns Hopkins Univer
sity, has been named as adviser to Pres
ident Yuan Bhth-kai. aucceailtnir k'.
brother, it was anounced today. He is
m -S 1 '
1'iuicMui ui puiii.cui scienee.
governs the buyers of sugar stocks all T!1." ('Uina ot tn Chin Mai Btav
thin time. Speculation is a danaerous f1'' oml'n.v. ie the only teamer fly
MARRIES TO GUARD
VIRELESS STATIONS
Tuckertort ; and -Sayville Rario
' depots Will 'Protected As
Precautionary Measure'
(Aaseclatsd rreas by fsaVral Wireless.)
WASHINGTON,' Aprill. The nnvy
department last night issued orders
sending marine, detachment now at the
League Island navy ya Philadelphia,
and the Brooklyn navyfynrdi to guard
the . wireless stations ' Tnrkertoa nad
e.y 11W. SAtt-kertua ' radio " station-,
which ia located in New Jersey,, will be
gusrded by the marines from Philadel
phia, and the Log Island station at
Bayville will be under the protoction
Of the troop front' the Brooklyn wavy
yard. ,
' Secretary Da alert last night issued a
stateirtent regarding the orders send
ing the mariaea to the radio stations,
declaring that the department was sim
ply taking a "precautionary measure,
and to insure adequate protection to
the plant at these points. " ''
It haa been through the Tuckerton
and Hayville wireless utations that the
Berlin authoritiee have been sending
their daily report of the miltarv opera
tions Home time ago the United Btate
government fonnd it necessary to send
naval officers to take over control of
these plants, after the discovery of a
plot to violate' the neutrality laws j of
the United States by Heading out code
mesaages to German steamers at sea,
under the color of despatches from the
embassy' to Berlin.
E!
Despatch Frorn Tokio Says Brit
ish Cruiser Overhauled Ship
Off Philippine Islands
(Special Cable to the Hawaii Hocbi)
TOKIO, April 21. Despatehea to the
American embassy here announced last
night that a British cruiser,' off the
Philippine Islands, has sent a boarding
party on board of a vessel flying the
American flag.. Three German passen
gers were removed by force, add tlfo
dexpatcli nnd over the formal protest
of tha American captain. A, large
quantity of steel and iron, which was
part
iakei
of tha steamer's cargo, was also
en by the British officer, ' acting
under orders, '.according to the report.
MAY BE COASTWISE '
. Shipping men here are at a loss to
account for the presence of a steamer
flying the American flag In Philippine
waters, vnlesa she is one, of the little
inter-island boats that ply between Ma
nila aud the other Philippine Ports.
ing the American flag, known to be iu
Oriental water, and her schedule haa
her sailing from Shanghai this morn
ing, bound for Nagasaki.
-- r
TORNADO KILLS A SCORE
(AmocUW Press by rsdsral Wtrstoss.)
KANSAS CITY, April 88. Twenty
people are known to be dead, a hundred
mure are injured and damage of 730,-
000 done by the tornado which yester
day swept over many section of Missouri.
ANOTH
R AMERICAN
VESSEL S BOARDED
ENTENTE ALLIES
STATE BLOCKADE
iNOT ILLEGAL
Replying ' Tp. American ' Protest
They Contend Law of Nations
. Warrants Policy
. '.iV, - j. w.- -.... -
AsDdatod Psksafby r4raf Wireless.)
WASHINGTCW, April 8l.Mt is re-.
ported In smciar tlrelea her that Great
t Brttiln n-rrnjae lfavehr -fomt
repW to tha American note of protest
against the blockade of the Allies. It
is onderstood that this reply which
will be made public within -a short
time, does not .attempt to dispute the
principles advanced by the United Sta
tes. Indeed, the Allies give them their
own undivided adherence.
Principles Are Observed .
The Allies declare that their ' own
conduct since) the outbreak'of tha pres
ent war has been baaed upon the same
rock-bottom' principles that the United
States has insisted upon.
Continuing, she joint note asserts
that the Preosh and British govern
ments have legally and correctlv in
terpreted these principles and have
been careful to apply them iu all the
acts of tbetr naval commanders, in con
ducting the blockade of the German
and AuHtrian counts. Furthermore,
says the note, in everything that the
Allies have done in maintaining the
blockade, they have relied upon pre
cedents estauiianeci dv the United sta
tes during the Civil War, and the block
ade of the Southern Confederacy.
Search In Port Justified
The joint communication from the
allied powers also claims that inasmuch
as it U manifestly impossible for
eruisers to search neutral vessels waU
at sea, it is necesitary to take them to
port for the purpose of examination
The note instance a score or eases
where the t'nited States government
followed this course during the war be
tween the states tn the arrest and de
tention of foreign blockade runuers.
1 -.., :
FOR BOURBON CLASSIC
Hitchcock Leads For Governor
and Ford For President
t
(Assoclatsd rrsss sy rsdwal Wireless.) ,
OMAHA, April 21. William Jam
niugs Bryan, former secretary of state
and leader or toe Peiuocratie party in
three fruitless presidential campaigns,
appeared last night to have been badly
defeated in hie race to become a dele
gate to the Democratic national con
Senator Hitehcoel is way ahead of
C. w. rtrvau, brother of the commoner,
in the rai-e for the Bourbon - notniluV
tion for (iovernor.
Henry Kord, of automobile and peac
fame, is leading Senator Cummins of
Iowa in the presidential preference
race, with Justice Hughes third,
- .
PARLIAMENTARY ROW IN
UKtAI BnllAIW StTTLEUisnd that some such a declaration as
(Assoclatsd frsss by rsdsrsl Wtrslsss.)
LONDOV, April 20. A settlement of
the British cabinet difficulties la now
in sight. It ha been agreed that pro
fiOHals will be' made by the minister
n parliament next Tuesday, (,
WASHINGTON NOW AWAITS
SILENTLY REPLY TO NOTE
THAT MAY LEAD TO BREAK
Governjnont Officials As! Well As Diplomats
of Neutral Countries Admit Situation Gives
Little Promise of Satisfactory Adjustment
of Differences Over Submarine Warfare
BERLIN MAY ACT QUICKLY
,''- . . V,.V-'''',
(ASSOCIATED PRESS BY FEDERAL WIRELESS) S-V
, WASHINGTON. April 21. William Jennings Bryan is
: on his way to Washington toi fight ,to the finish tha Presi
dent's policy of calling Germany, to account for the sub-.
; marine outrages. He has been in the thick of a political V
"fight far delegate to the Democratic national convention, 4 "
buttsterday, with a statement that "to enter war under ..
any circumstances is nothing short of a crime," started for r
the national capitaL Reports from Omaha last night say ".' '.
that he wai badly beaten in bis delegate fight
IT TASHINQTON, April 21. As 4hc sentiment of . the whole "
Vy country swiftly crystalized yesterday in favor of the stand
taken by the administration toward the'submarine war as carried
on by Germany, "official W'ji's'hington settled back to await the 'V .
ICaiser's reply to President "WiUyo's note. , 1 . . . v ' '? ':
I - The general opinion s growing that a breAk is unavoidable i that
Berlin,' will, not yiel4 to the debnda ma.de by the President, fcut
will follow the course se hai purstied, since the beginniug'.of ihe .. ;
sul jjnAarma 1 4tftiti dr iasisCHhat '4.-' action lan)rfoti'' her ";
submarine. commanders have been within the letter and 'spirit of
inttroational law. ;;:v : Jh",;,V-; '.:;rjl, '.'
Hint Is Given''o( Compromiaa : 1, ..-' 'r . Jmi;",y"u...'. ;
' '.State department tiffictatti 'itt night admitted that the possibility
of a definite break' with the, jTeunic poWes, and the following step .
of acfual war, is .nearer nowithan.it has been since the beginning of ,
the great European conflict,- - V: i; . y ,M
v These same official vin commenting upon the note arid the possi
bilities that may result from its despatch, pointed out that the.Uniti :
ed States might be willing to agree that submarine warfare should
be conducted upon the same status and under the same restrictions .
as that waged by surface cruisers, but, they added'' this, phase'!,
the situation cannot be discussed until the present Germanic under
sea campaign has been abandoned definitely and conclusive proof 7
yf the Kaiser's government to abide by its pledges, in the future, has s
been shown. j
Country Is Expecting Break To Come
In the country at large the feeling appears tp be swiftly growing ",
that the time for a break has come, and that the severence of all
diplomatic relations with Germany is inevitable, and, the people as
a whole have rallied to the support of the President. In New York I
the Republican members of the state legislature yesterday; passed ; .
formal resolution pledging their support whole-heartedly to the .
President and congress in any action "to maintain' thehonor of the- '
nation " The resolution also pledged support to Governor Whitman
in any disposition he may make of the whole resources of the Empire
state at "the call of the country." . c. .
It is believed that at least three or four days must elapse before4
Berlin can reply to the note, and it is generally admitted that she '
should have that much time.' On the other hand it was pointed '
out that there is a possibility that Germany will pot waK, but .will '. v.
reply at once, refusing to yield to the American demands. , v , '
No Answer For At Least Ten Days ' . t' h
Members of the diplomatic corps, however, give the Kaiser an r
even longer time that that set by officials, and said last night that
Berlin's answer is not to be looked for for ten days at the earliest,.
Neutral diplomats confessed by their actions that tbey. have . but
little hope that a break between the two countries can be avoided, ;
although, of course, none of them would discuss the matter
The American note reached Berlin yesterday morning . Ambas
sador (ierard probably-delivered it yesterday afternoon, to the Ger- ' !
man foreign office. v ' .'',- ,,
Count von Bernstorff, the German ambassador, yesterday con-,'
ferred with Secretary Lansing upon the submarine issue. There
was also some conversation regarding the case of Wolf von' Igel,
former secretary of Captain von Papen, the former military attache v
of the (ierman embassy charge J with being a party to the plot to '
destroy the Wetland canal with dynamite. - , ;.v
w
HAT BERNSTORFF
HAD IN MIND
In the Associated Tress despatchcn
from Washington received is Honolulu
on Wednesday night, Count von Bern
storff, the German ambassador, was re
ported to have notified the foreign of
lice at Herliu that tha United Btstes
1 : t ii- a a.. .
was made by Berlin - on January 7,
respeetinx the subniarin campaign in
the Mediterranean, probably would
have to lie made to sstisfy American
public opinion. ...
Two communicationa were received
by tSei retary Lansing through the Oer
'4 .
many embassy from Berlin on the data
mentioned. One contained a proposal .
to psy so indemnity for tb American
loitt in the Lueitania -disaster,, a pro
posal which the German government .
thought would bring to a satisfactory
conclusion the long drawnout negotia
tions over the first wholesale murder
of Americans in tho submarine ram.
paigu. The offer was not found ac
ceptable to the American government
as it contained no acknowledgement of '
the illegality of tha attack. .
The second communication . i prob
ably what was referred to by the Ger
man ambassador on Wednesday. This
man an assurance regarding the carry.
( Continued on Pay J )
u
