That Country Home
Co to It via The T-D Want Ad
Page, For Sale or to Let
To Buy or Se i I
p6Lh YEAR
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES. ,u?CLOUDY
Remember the Easiest Way,T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
RUSSIAN TROOPS
ARRIVE IN FRANCE
TO ASSIST ALLIES
Given Tremendous Ovation
as They March to Mar
seilles Camp.
JOFFRE, IN ORDER OF DAY,
PRAISES THEIR DEVOTION
Believed to Have Embarked
From Port of Archangel,
on White Sea.
Wll.h HE rSRD TO FILL IN GAPS'
Transports Probably Mmle AVId?
Sweep to Avoid Submarine
Danger Zone.
Thp arrival In Franc? of a larpe num
her of troops to re-enforce th? we*t-j
ern battle line has brought grcat'Joyj
to the entente allied countries, whero it .
Ik hoped that with them fighting shoul- !
d?*r to shoulder at different points with
French and lielKians, a material change
in 'he situation may shortly develop.
How mar;. Russians have been sent J
hciosj seas by Kmperor Nicholas Is not I
known, but what is described as .?
"creat (lotill.i of transport!'," arrived it) i
the harbor of Marseilles, and almost!
immt diately aftorward landed the
f<.?rc?-s amid the <-li< ? - c i t. Lf o4" popu
late ;md the French troops gallo-reit
at the >jun> to gr?-et thvm u t ti roars I
of salut???.
("Jeneral Joffre, the French <;oa;ii.m- '
d'i-in-chief, in welcoming the Russians'
lr an (H'dcr of the da\. said they w? >
"soldier* rho'Pi' fr-??ii the brav,f.: n.
tin KusHan armies, and commanded b ? !
oflitfTH of the highest renown
<i?:tt>l \ SS \VITM 1)11 A\\ K<?ltl l>
I 'llllll 'I'M I'll It OTlll-'.lt l iltlMS
< 'oinri.t? ntal w itb the at ri\a! of the)
It.i.-siana ??omen tin- statement from'
Par's that the Germans. owing to the
st rone resistance of lh?? lYt-nch at
V?i?ltin. arc withdrawing laisre fr?r?es;
fi'? '! their front.i in Russia. Serbia and
M n i-doiii.i. nntl throwing tlu-tn into
I ?- hotly contested theater.
M(*'i the French, according ttl t Ji.*
latest official communication, liav# de
li- ert-d an attack Uf.it l.e Mori Homme,
northwest of \>i(i'.n. and succeeded in ?
driving the tJerrnr.n-* out of portion*
of a trench previously captured l>>
them The Germans admit the entry'
b\ the French of German trenches in
the <'alllelto wood, west of Yaux, after
a heavy French attack, but say that'
otherwise the attack nan repulsed with'
hfjtvj casualties.
Around Tpres. tio Germans, accord -
(tie to Iter! In. attacked and occupied ono
meters of Rrltlsh positions. The Brit
ish offi.-ial report concedes a German 1
gain her*, but saya that except for ttvoi
??raters and one trench near St. Klol'
and on the Tpres-T.,angemarelc road, the:
Germans were expelled from all 'the'
positions Ihey captured.
.IOFFRK WKI.COMES RUSSIANS
IV AV OltDKR OK THE DAV
PARIS. April 20.? A strong force of
Russian troops disembarked at Mar
seilles at noon to-day. .
The Russians aro to fight beside the
allied soldiers In France.
General Joffre welcomed the Rus
sians in an order of tho day, saying
their arrival wng another striking
proof of the devotion of Russia to the
common cause.
General Joffre's order reads:
"Our faithful ally, Russia, whose
armies already aro fighting so valor
owsly against Germany. Austria and
turkey, wanted to give France further |
evidence of her friendship: more strik
ing proof of her devotion to the com
mon cause.
Russian soldiers, chosen from tho
bra% est In her armies and commanded
by ofllcers of tho highest, renown, have
coma to fight in our ranks
"Vou will receive them like brothers
>ou will show thorn that warm sympa
thy which you feel toward those who
leave their country to come and fight
at our shies.
"In the name of ihe French army, I
welcome tho officers, tinder-officers and
soldiers of Russia who have debarked
(Continued on .second I'ngeTj
o?K?*x?D bcrrrzzazryfXkD -jy-y. \
llnnnnl 10. Coffin, clinlrmnn of the
Iniliix t riul prepuredncum cummlttre of
the .Naval Consulting Ilonrd. uho on
May 1 nrlii In motion :iO.OOO trained
American mKliiPfm to k? Into the fac
torlrn, tii 111 m mid the mlnrn of the conn
try to flitd out. for the tirnt time in the
history of the uiitlonnl Kovernmenl,
what part the manufacturer)! of the
country can play In producing muni
tIonm of Mar nliro the time come*.
URGES COMPROMISE DF
BELT LINE CONTROVERSY |
Street Committer Reports Ordimmce j
for Adoption Providing for Im
mediate Opening of Streets.
( Tl Y AYII.I. PKOVIDK 1>H.\!.\.\<;K
liailroad Ayrecs 10 Proceed at (Inco
V.'it Ii Ti'Hrk Work and Kreetlon of
Monument. Avenue Bridge, Leav
ing Division of Cost to Courts.
An ordinance prepared by City At
torney Pollard a:sd presented by Alder
man orrtway Puller, compromising the
difficulties between the city and the
Richmond. Fredericksburg: and Potomac
Railroad Company and making possible
immediately after the passage of the
ordinance by the City Council the be
ginning of tlie work of depressing the
Heir I.ine tracks for the crossing of
MiHiumont Avenue and other "West 12nd
streets. was recommended by the .Street
Committee yesterday afternoon.
The motion for recommendation was;
offered by Councilman John W". Moore,
elected by the City Council 60 till
the -vacancy caused by tIt0 resigna
tion of Councilman Gilbert K. J'ollock.
City Attorney Pollard asked that the
matter be reported to a special meet
ing of the Board of Aldermen, to be
held early next week, so that the ordi
nance could be leferred to the Fi
nance Committee without delay. A
motion to that effect was adopted. Mr.
Pollard stated that, under the terms
of the ordinance, the city is required
now only to complete a temporary
drainage system in It and C Streets,
each running', on opposite sides, par
rallel to the Belt Line tracks, before
the company commences its work of
track depression and bridge erection.
Tho drainage system can be finished
within sixty days, Mr. Pollard and
City Engineer Kolllng informed the
committee, and as soon as this is done
the railway company will begin its
work.
W AIVES CI.A MlS AS TO
NATUHR OF DKAI.VAGIO
The City Attorney explained how tho
obstacles which had existed between
the railroad company and tho city had
been removed when the company
waived itB gsserted privilege of being
solo Judge of the nature of the work
to ho dono in draining B and C Streets,
and when it expressed its willingness
to make .Monument Avenue an exist
ing street, so as to leave later to tho
courts the question of division of the
cost of depressing the, tracks and con
structing a bridge. The company had
llrst affirmed the cost, should he di
vided equally between it and the city.
The question is temporarily waived. In
(Continued on Third Page.)
Buy-Right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
The person who was author
ity for t.lic well-advised 'ex
pression of "Do it now"?im
mortalized the subject, of pre
paredness in three of the short
est words In the English vo
cabulary. Applying the ex
pression to your Easter shop
ping, is to be able to make
choice a matter of personal
taste, instead on impulsive se
lection the penalty" of haste.
Right, now the big stores and
pretentious shops of Richmond
Buy Easter Things Now
Stocks Are Complete
arc "ripe" in the variety of
their offerings. They are mak
ing use of the advertising pages
of The Times-Diapatch to ex
jploil and price them. Their
"best foot forward" is im
pressed in the strides (hey take
each day in these columns to
advise yon of the latest styles,
the best values and the lowest
prices. This is all reliable in
formation of what, where and
when to buy.
NOTE?The Ttnien-DiHpnlctt pinrnnlrpN n nmrkftl navhijc o*i every |itirchn*e
nude la Richmond Ntorcrt thnt advcrtlHe their price* In thc?e |ingr?>
ALLIES OBSERVE
France and England Contend
That There Have Been
No Violations.
THEIR JOINT NOTE READY
Based Largely on Precedents;
Laid Down by This Country
in Civil War.
WASHINGTON', April 20 ?According^
to authentic Information rcachinsrj
Washington. Great Rritaln and France.'
In their Join' note replying- to the'
American protest against interferences
with neutral trade, make no attempt
to dispute principles contended for hv
the Unite'] States, hut Insist that tiio.se
principles have been Riven lepal in-i
terpretation mid application by thei
allies in their blockade of Germany;
and Austria.
This note, which will he handed to
the State Department within the next
day or two by the Rrltish and French:
ambassadors, is understood to be long,
and extremely technical, treating of the:
u hole subject on a purely legal basis.'
and relying lartrely upon the precedents!
laid down by the United States in the
Civil War. It is said the allies assume,
that the United States government does
not contend that it has the rit?ht to;
ship goods without restriction intoj
Germany or Austria through contiguous'
neutral countries such as Holland,'
Sweden and Denmark.
RIGHT TO RKCIUTK
ADMISSION' OF (tOOI)SI
The concession of the right to block-j
ade an enemy country, universally rec-j
f^nizrd. is regarded as necessarily,
'?a rrying with it the right to regulate I
th? admission r.f poods to the neutral'
country evidently destined to be trans-'
feivcd to the enemy. Consequently, it
is contended that it is perfectly within
the spirit of international law to limit j
I imports Into a neutral country, such as'
Holland, of goods that might he useful
to Germany and Austria to the amount!
j normally consumed in tne neutral,
'? country.
Moreover, ir i<; argued that incident!
to the exercise of this right of reguln- j
tion of tmport? is the nplit to search,
vessels approaching the neutral coun
try. In this connection the allies hold!
that, w hile in early days ir was possible ?
to conduct such a search at sea. con-j
dilions of modern sea trailer have made'
this impossible; hence It has become,
necessary to take the neutral ship to'
the nearest convenient port, where the!
cargo may be examined. This is the'
explanation offered for the apparent!
unreasonable diversion of neutral ships
from their regular courses, and what
I has been complained of as an unneees
j sary delay in search. It. was with a
view to reducing complaint on this
: score, it is pointed out, that arrange
ments were made for the Uritlsh em
bassy here to advise would-be Ameri
; can shippers whether their carpoesj
' probabl> would be subject to deten
tion.
CUAIIACTIOK OK I'APEUS
HAS C'HAXGKD t'OMl'I.ETKLVi
Another point made by the allies is!
that the character of ships' papers have!
changer] completely, owing to modern}
commerce methods, so that no loncer;
lean they be relied upon to establish!
the character of a cargo and its lia
bility to seizure. The practice ot con-j
signing Roods to order or to individuals'
in neutral countries who are distrihut-j
ing aerents and forwarders to the enemy
country, the allies insist, has made it,
| necessary to refer their cases to prize!
I courts for examination.
Complaint by the United States that i
the prize courts cannot be recognized*
as competent to render final decision'
in the cases of seized or detained ves
sels and cargoes is met by reference j
to the recent decision in Rngland to
the effect that prixo courts must he
governed by the principles of interna-'
tloual law, and where orders in coun
cil conflict the latter must j-ive way. '
I here is also, it is pointed out, an,
acknowledgment of the rights of the
neutral power whose ships-* are seized!
to appeal to the highest judicial tri-j
btinal. and oven to take up the case
, diplomatically if dissatisfied. This, It
| is pointed out. was tho position '??-!
, surer! by tile United States government
I during tho Civil War ir. the famous'
I Bermuda cases, when the British gov-j
I eminent waited three /cars for a dc-'
oision of the United States Supreme!
'Court in the Springbok case.
Some finishing touches are to be
added to the joint note upon tho re
ceipt nr further data by cable from1
j London and Paris, and the document
j then w ill be presented to Secretary i
Lansing by Ambassadors .lusserand and
Hpring-Ilico and arrangements made for
its simultaneous publication in Europe;
and America.
FULTON W. CLARE DEAD
One of Rent-Known Tobacco Urn of
SouHt Victim of Heart 1'i-ouhlc !
nt Louisville.
I
LhXINGTON. KY., April L'ft?Kiiltou
W. Clare, fortv-si.v. president of tlje:
Lexington Tobacco Hoard of Trade, and
local manager of a large Kaste.rn to-!
, banco company. die<l here to-day oft
! heat t trouble. Mr. Clare was one ofj
(the best-known tobacco men of thej
'South. He had managed plants a t j
Kooky Mount, Va, ami Durham and!
J Greensboro, N. C.. and Florence, S. C.J
PURSUIT OF VILLA !
BY U.S. SOLDIERS !
AT A STANDSTILL!
Negotiations With Carran
za Also Reach Tempo
rary Halt.
WILSON AWAITING FULL
ADVICES FROM BORDER'
Major-General Scott, Chief of
Staff, Will Arrive at San j
Antonio To-Night.
TO SKM) REPORTS FORWARD:
Mcxlcan Situation Will ne Reviewed
l>.v Cabinet AVIien It Meets
To-Day,
WASHINGTON, April 2ff.?Diplomatic!
negotiations with General Carranza, as;
well as the pursuit of Villa by Amerl-'
can soldiers, apparently is at a stand-!
."till while President Wilson awaits full
advices as t othe military problems the;
troops have encountered in Mexico.
With the arrival of Major-Gener.il
Scott, chief of staff, In San Antonio
on to-morrow night. the information
sought by Secretary Haker will begin'
to come forward by wire, but it is'
improbable that any important JHep!
will be takon by the Cabinet on to-i
morrow or until General Scott returns.!
Secretary Haker maintained to-dayj
that he had suggested sending General j
Scott because the lack of knowledge of
local conditions surrounding the troops!
on the border and iti Mexico was so!
apparent that it was desirable to learn;
the full views of General Scottt.
Additional reports from General
Pershing will probably bo ready for
consideration by the Cabinet to-mor
row. As the Cabinet meeting was de
voted almost wholly to the German
situation. It seems almost probable that
the Mexican .situation will be reviewed
to-morrow for the first time since Gen
eral Carranza urged the withdrawal of
the expedition.
HRPOUTS FIIO.M MK.V1CO
WILL III-; AVAILABLE
P.eports from Mexico reaching the
State Department also will be avail
able. As far as known, they tell of
increased difficulties surrounding -the
expedition. The observer who reported
this added that while the movement,
he believed, was not authorized by the
de facto government heads, it was In
tended as a hint that the Americans
must not move further southward. Ap-i
pot ently only a comparatively small j
force was involved, and officials here
regarded it as significant rather than
serious. It was accepted, however, as'
added proof that the outlying Carranza j
garrisons are not entirely under the;
control of tho War Department.
The diplomatic situation was un- I
??hanged to-day, although it became I
known that the United States had ac
knowledged Carranza's request that
negotiations for the withdrawal of
Vnlted Stntes troops be taken up. He
was assured his arguments were being
investigated, but there was nothing
to-day to show that the position ? of
the I'nited Slates was to be changed.
The last word to the State Depart
ment from the Carranza capital cast
much doubt on the rumor that Villa
was dead and his body recovered. Xo
?steps have been taken by Die Wash
ington government to investigate the
matter.
V11.1.A IV TKOYA TWO DAYS
IIKKOIti: CLASH AT PA it HAL
hi, PASO, T12X., April I'O.?Francisco
Villa passed through Troy a, about
twenty-five miles east of Parral, two
days before the engagement between
Americans and Carranza troops there,
reports received here to-day said.
SIX VI LI.A II AMHTN GiriLTV
or Jii iiDuii ix KiKST iM:<;ni:K
I2L PASO. T12X., April 20.?The yix
Villa bandits placed on trial at Dom
ing. X. M? yesterday, charged with
killing Charles D. Miller In the Colum
bus raid, to-day were found guittv of I
murder in the first degree, according I
to word received here. The jury was '
out thirty minutes.
TO I VU ILITATR WITH nil A \V A L
OF Til 10 A .11 Kit It 'A X Tit OOPS j
TORKKON, MUX., April 2f?.?Colonel:
I.row n. in I^h. Hoqnilla, is reported j
here (o be arranging will, General!
Luis Horrcra at Parral by telephone for'
tim uso of the railroads to facilitate:
the withdrawal of the American troops,:
Mi:.VIIA\S Kt.'LLY A<QtAI\TIOI>
, WITH <iI0lt.MA.\ SITI'ATIOXj
Kl, PASO. TK.N., April 20.?On Mon-1
'l.'J i he, ' liihuahua <"it\ newspapers'
printed dispatches supposed to havei
coine from Juarez, stating that Presi-1
dent Wilson was about to deliver an I
ultimatum to Germany, and that war!
would be declared within a. week,!
This in formation was brought hero to-1
day by Americans returning from Chl-j
hua hit a, who brought copies of the
newspapers in which the dispatches ap-j
pea red.
The arrivals said that the news of;
the crisis between Germany and the
I'nited States was common talk in Chi
huahua City on Sunday, forty-eight
hours before the facts were made pub
(Continued on Second j'age.)
Labor Parly Paves Way for
Agreement Reached by
British Cabinet.
real crisis surmounted!
Will Consent to Gradual Exten-!
, sion of Conscription if
Necessary.
LONDON*. April :n._The whole na-'
tion was surprised and cheered by the
unexpected announcement to-day of tho
Cabinet agreement over the military
conscription bill. Thus the country Is
saved from the anxious days It wouldj
have suffered until Parliament re
assembled on Tuesday and from tho
newspaper controversy which would I
liava raped meantime.
The Labor party, the only political
group united against further measures!
of compulsion, is credited with paving'
the way tn the agreement. The leader.
Arthur Henderson, president of tho
Hoard of Education, proposed, accord
ing to (he reports, a further trial of
voluntarily enlistment, with the ptoni
ise that tho Lahorites would consent to
a gradual extension of c-Onscrlpt'on if
necessary to secure the number of men i
tiie military authorities eonsidor e*<sen- '
tial.
SEt.'iiET OF HOT?I
HOI SKS W ILL 1113 t'O.VVUXEl)
The Labor members, together' with J
others, demanded that they be in-'
formed on the exact position?what j
number of men had already been en
rolled and pledged, as well as
how many the War Office re
quires to enlarge the army and replace
the wastage by casualties and other
causes. Consequently, a secret session
of both houses will be convened on!
Tuesday, ai which the government Willi
supply full information.
An official statement to-night de
clares that the settlement satisfies all
sections of opinions represented, and
emphasizes that the sole reason for the
secret session of Parliament, is to]
supply confidential Information to the!
members. j
Until Premier Asqulth's statement,
yesterday the public failed to realize
that the government was actuallv on!
the brink of dissolution, as hostile!
newspapers have strenuously adver- (
Used previous crises, which failed to I
crystallize. This real crisis, which is'
now surmounted, for the present at!
The' ',iViSi?n ?" Pflr,y ""OS
Northclifie press, so-called, sup
ported by the Conservative Morning
t. has attacked the coalition Cabi
net. and particularly the Prime Min
ister. for failure to framo and execute;
a vigorous war policy, and has do-!
tnanded general conscription under the'
watchword. "Equality of sacrifice for
,iOV VM EXT St:IM'OItTUI)
III THE 1.1 IS 1011 A i, I'A|?K|is
The Liberal papers, with the Con-i
|*rvatlvc Daily Telegraph and most of!
the provincial papers, supported the
go\ ernment
Among the politicians, David Lloyd!
Oeorge. who during the early stagesi
of is! rnr bfCnme lhe most ^PUlar|
the Liberal members of the Cabl '
??, Sir W?rt
from the cabinet because of his dls-i
the?n?W,th ,,,n management of
the ualllpoll campaign, and Lord Mil
"or-the two last being strong Con
e\Mf>'a h|V<!S 16(1 t,,tt demand for
extending conscription.
i.loyi) tiK(iii(ii<: loses
EAVOIt A.MO.Vc; I.IIIEItAI.S
f appears to have lost
. amo?K <?c Liberals in the same
degree that he has gained i, among
r ghm0nSCrVn,'VrS' Whi,? ,h* Wherallj
w, " . "rongly, attribute to sir I
^ Carson party motives for hisl
course as the Ulster leader has been
l?o Liberals- bitter opponent since uj
home-rule campaign.
?Andrew Fiona r i c- '
nil ... . nai '"nv. Secretary for
the Colonies, has minnoi.. I
Pla1"d,,t^,,' '",t 11 is '-"--'"i'^'he!
'ablnir t rCten,,?" of "oalltlon'
ablnet above every other considera-1
Hon in importance.
t)iaJ>n,v.?f.thA have hinted
Secretary for^War' -!n7 | |K,,chen??'
ofTead S'r Wm,ara ,r ??h'rV.?,n!r*hM
?.f ,,ea(,quarterH staff, threatened to re
? ?n unless the governmentux'J
Hut' f?r ,,,n foops.;
aid savV|,? n"fht ?? this.!
Mr v -,v P'St"' haH Put (o:
cn;;oui h" hrart
Cleorge.' fer'''nK 0h,?n>' '? W?yd|
srr. ^
:i
' w,u ,)f> Permitted to attend ti.?!
press censorship Is a guarantee agal.ml
e Information the government reve IJ
^?om.ng public. ? WOIllf| be
?e against the defense of the realm'
?ven if ";;:;Par'"rft to reports !
inforination. "bl0 to
v,I'rlMon.
? M\ \ Oi{K. April U0.?iCmma Hold- ?
her",,,e ",>u^ ?? ?..* i
r ? " ? as u" anarchist, was t?. '
found guilty m the Criminal Court
dishrniina t lug improper literature
? omerning birth Control, and accepted
? sentence of tiftefl, days |n the work
noil#? in lieu of a fine of $100.
Soldiering in Mexico
Solillrra of tlio ex prilM lonnry forcp
fiir ntlvnncnl In Mf\lro, linvr iDRrnii
ounly cunntmi'trd nlicltrr lent* of ndolie
muit nml Knife*. The ItitrrlurN arc i'(im
fortnhle nni] qullf rnomjr, (hp srrnunil
lunliiK been <tun nnil n nort of treneh
rtrnvnlrd for hnxly exit Nhoulii mi eh
be iirorKHary.
NEGRO'S PLEfl FOR LIFeI
AVAILS M NOTHING
.John Williams Must Pay With Ills
Death for Ilrutul Crime Ho
Committed.
HE IS QUICKLY FOUND GUILTY
Tried lleforo Jury at Nottoway
Courthouse, and Perfect Order
>raintalnetl. Despite Great. Crowd
Present?Now in Henrico .Jail.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch. ]
DLACKSTONR. VA? April 20.?To die
by electrocution on Friday. May 20.
was the sentence imposed upon John
Williams, the negro who assaulted a
young white pirl four miles from this
place on March SO, at Nottoway Court
house to-day.
When asked by the court if he had
anything1 to'say before sentence was
passed upon him, the negro made an
earnest and impassioned plea that lie
be permitted to live and try to make
amends for the crime he had com
mitted. which, he said, had been due
to drink. He told the court that "I
would like to have the chance to live
and die a natural death, and in the
meantime to make amends for n?y mis
deeds. You have the power to show
mercy to me as you hope to have it
shown you, and in this tumult of whito
people I wish to say that it Is my de
sire to live a Christian life in the
future, and am willing to spend my
days in confinement in order that I
may die a natural death."
The negro showed by his man nor find
speech that he is above the ordinary
in Intelligence, and while very uorvous
all (luring the trial, he spoke with
much composure and earnestness In his
plea for his life.
IIK WOL'I.D NOT CITAMiK
VKItDlf'T IK II10 ( ftl l.O
Judge Southall replied that it was
not in bis power to change the verdict,
of the jury, and he would not do t-o
if he could. lie said that a fair and
impartial trial had been given him, and
a verdict bad been rendered in accord
ance with the law titill evidence in his
case.
The prisoner was ordered hack to
fbe Henrico Jail, there to await tho
convenience of the penitentiary au
thorities when ho will bo sent for and
the sentence of the court carried out.
Perfect order was maintained durinit'
the trial, which had been set for 1 ?">
o'clock, but it was five minutes after
II when court was formally opened
The courtroom was ilrst cleared of all
except the oilicers, doctors, lawyers and
newspaper men, and tlfty deputies were
called and sworn in.
The doors were then thrown open
and every man searched for arms as
they entered the room. One was found
with a pistol, and he was brought to
the bar of the court and placed under
arrest. His trial for the offense will
take place to-morrow morning. The
largest crowd ever seen at Nottoway
Court was present, every county in this
section being represented. Not a fourth
of those present could gain admission
to the courtroom, and every window
was surrounded by onlookers. Onlj i
few negroes were presont, they having
been advised to remain away.
The court appointed three members
of the local bar to defend the prisoner,
who entered a plea of "nof guiltand
they discharged their duties as well us j
they could 'inder the preponderance of
evidence against the accused. They'
had several negroes btought into court
and placed on either side of Willluma
to see if the witnesses coubl identify
him. This they unhesitatingly did in,
each instance.
"'In most interesling incident of the i
triai occurred just ai ibis tune. lin
i'oiiK. an old-time negro, w in nwne
Is only a few hundr? I ? v<l fr.?i.> that
tContiuuvu oa Second Page.) J
PRESENT METHODS
KIUSI BE CHANGED
BEFORE NEXT STEP
U. S. Determined Not to
, Tolerate Unlawful Sink
ing of Another Ship.
SUCH ATTACK NOW WOULD
MEAN IMMEDIATE BREAK
Wilson Might Agree to Subma
rines Operating Under Strict
Rules of Cruiser Warfare.
BKIIXSTOKFF SBKS I,AXKI.V<i
Series of Keliglous Holidays in Gor
mauy May Cause Delay in Set
tlement of Issue.
Gerard Delivers
American Note
ItONDO.V, April 20.?The .\ nicrlenn
note to (Jormnny ivns liiitiderf In nt
the (icriuan Foreign Oilier on Tlutr*
dny evening by .lumen W. (ipriiril.
the Amrricnn iinihnnsndor, m;it* Hi?>
llii'liungr TrlrRrniili'x Amsterdam
eorrenpon ilrnt.
The Chancellor, (In* correspondent
adds, linn not jrl seen 11>?> note. n?
lie In at army hrud<iunrtern. lint lie
hnn rommunli'nti>d with the Foreign
Offlre l?y telephone.
WASHINGTON. April 20.?While tlio
United States waits for Germany to re
ply to the note demanding immediate
abandonment <if present methods of
conducting submarine warfare, one of
the chief sources of concern here is the t
possibility of another attack on a
peaceful ship carrying Americans be.
fore the Berlin government has deter
mined upon Its course. In such an
event it is admitted that an immediate
I rupture could l>c prevented only by
I proof that Germany had been unable
| to communicate with her submarine
I commanders.
| In explaining Ho- demand of tha
! United States to-day. officials said that
j while abandonment of tho present il
| legal methods at once was essential to
[continuance of diplomatic relations, tho
United States might agree to tho Ger
man submarines operating under the
strict restrictions of cruiser warfare.
Ir was emphatically reiterated, how
ever. that a discussion of that phase
would not be entered into until tho
present campaign was brought to a
stop. The United States stands firm
in its determination not to tolerate un
lawful and inhumane sinking of an
other ship.
Cruiser warfare such as would be re
garded as legal by the American gov
ernment would mako imperative the
exercise of the right of visit and search,
tho passengers and crews being accord
ed a degroe of safety considered ade
quate. The mere placing of passengers
| and crews in small boats far from land
! and in dangerous seas would not meet
the requirements.
I Mi:i)lTi:Hlt.VNKAX PLAN
j IS NOT SATISFACTORY
| The Mediterranean plan of warfare,
as announced in tho German momoran
I dum, on January 7, to tho United States,
lias not worked satisfactorily, admin
istration officials consider. It is held
that in many instances submarine com
manders operating in the Mediter
ranean hat e. disregarded tho undertak
ing in letter and In spirit. Count von
IJernstortT, tho German ambassador, is
understood to have suggested to hi3
government that it issue a ne/ declara
tion applying to all submarine opera
tions similar to that covering tho cam
paign In tho Mediterranean.
The ambassador called at the State
Department to-day and had a twenty
five-minute conference with Secretary
Lansing. Mr. Lansing listened with
much interest to suggestions which he
understood the ambassador was ready
to make his own government for its
guidance In framing x reply to tho
American note, but was not disposed to
accept the views as being official.
As a result of this. Count van Bern
storff sent another communication to
his government this evening. The am
bassador do.'s not expert to cill upon
Secretary fat!)slug again until after hia
government has .natlc formal reply to
I lie American note.
.lust how long the United Stated is
willing (to wait for tho Gorman reply
has not been disclosed. All official*
agree that a "reasonable time" will bo '
allowed. I'ress dispatchc announced
that the note had arrived i!i Berlin,
but official word of it.-* deltverv had
not been received from Ambassador
Gerard to-night.
IMOJ.W MAY UK ItlOSt I.T
OK hkmciois IIOI.IO WS
A series of religious holiday*, scrupu
lously observed in the German empire,
beginning to-morrow, Good Friday, to
continue t:ntil next Tuesday, lias been
suggested a>> a possible enese <?? delay
!<V the German Foreign Office.
The State I lepai ? . ? has not ber.n
? .1, that Amhns.-indor Gerard had
l>t '-ii handed a supph men'ary note n
r? uard :o .be Sunse>. ticK-'rlbrd .?* con
taining statement of Swisr awl An>er?.
u:an passengers that a mine, ami nor. *
