the w
ECAST.
tin.
Probably sho'
o-morrow;
IT SHINES FOP ALL
mod
Highest temper;
lowest, 45.
retailed weather
on page 13.
' 'ASM T-
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 234.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916. COIrl,nf,llt,By the Sun Printing and Publithing Aaaoclation.
Aer Jl
9, 1
.W..-l.gam. .A
U.S. TROOPS IN
PARRAL COOL
FACING DEATH
3lnjr Tompkins's Self-Control
Averted Possible Mas
sacre of Americans.
LKD INTO A TRAP.
lit M'l ' I1T W V lll'T i
r VI. UII 1 A1 Ull ,
"Fiieinll.v" farrana Sol
diers SueaUed L'p on V. S.
Cavalry's Flank.
it t.r.oiti.r. ii. cmixifatm.
.;irr, f'errrjpoirfeni of Tar. 8rv.
Fitt.ii iu:.vhcji'Aim:ns, i nitkh ktatrs 0r obregon.
Ar.MT. nkmi Xamiuihpa, chihuahua, Thll) lal,cr Matenicnt many officials
Mexico, April 1, by acto to Columbus, consider, merely its emphasizing the Ina
N M . April 20. That the little hand- blllty of Carranza to control his sub-
ful of American troopers composing
Major Frank Tompkins's command .wan
not imiilhllatel when It wax attacked
on the afternoon of Apt II 12 In the
streets of the city of I'arral by it mob
hugely made im of soldiers wearing the
uniform of the men composing the Cai
i i'izlt.i garrison of the town can only
Ic ascilbed to the cuolheadedness of
tli" commander and the self-control of 1 partment for service In Mexico four more
the men Curtis machines of greatly Increased
, , , horse-power have been ordered, and the
Masterly us applied to retreats Is an , ,,ri.iase of still another four Is being
overworked word hi these troublous i considered. All sixteen machines would
tline. hut as applied to the retreat!1 for Mexican service.
of Major TompMii'i can by no means be
' .' , I It Is regarded as likely that no dual
has been told briefly In the despatches f u(,csi H to a withdrawal .will be
permitted to be sent over the very reached by the Administration pending
much butilelied wliclcss otitllts by means ! "ceol'il 7'?rt w,Vh Major-C.en
. , , , ... ,1 Scott, Chief of Maff, will make follow,
of nlm.li this and other of the Amerl- hlB ,,ls arrival t San Antonio to-mnr-chi
camps In this section of Mexico are I row night to confer with (Jen. Funston
k.-lir in touch with the outside world. . unless meantime there should be nbso
bat 'he allalr Is, worthy, of moie e- lute proof received of the death of Villi,
tended mentlnii m connection officials of the Ad-
Major Tompkins and his attenuated ministration are awaiting with Interest
Mttallon were far In tl... lead of the ,h" "".uel to War Minister Obregon's
several column, of America,, soldier "liJTrTi.h'Vin x
P.ukIiu llla. wanted for the wanton rol Ip)o ,vno at(enj ed the brigand during
n'urder of American citizens during his ItfM dx'iiiie hours. -
fefent ral.l nn t ti- pltv if fntnmlmif ' . . '... . ... .
v i I
N M.
Xaked for Confrrrncr.
As he approached the city of Parral.
which lie knew- to be a Villa stronghold j
In times past nnd of which he was still
lUSilclous, he sent messengers to the
resident of the municipality, who In this
cae happens to be the father nf Gei.
I.ufz Herrera, one of Carr.inza' most
'rimeil lieutenants, to apprise him of
the approach of the Ameiican forces and
'o ask for a conference as to camping 1
place and to discuss the Uesllon of '
purchasing supplies.
1'reslilent Heirera sent a representa
tive who. Judged by his actions', was
wry much an antl-Vllllstn and very
zl.vl the Americans had arrived In proi
fii'loti of their search for the bandit 1
lf.ilci He was particularly affable, i
nl made many promises as to the
arm reception which the authorities I
ef I'arral "vould prepare for their very ,
sunn iriennt tne American Mltliers. .
He dined with Major Tom!klns and .
lit. It, ll, evening returned to Parral.
sfter arranging with the American com-
rr.uiiler to be at .t certain station out-
M 'he city promptly at 11 o'clock the ,
following morning, April 12. where he
oiil, be met by a committee of citizen. ,
i,l .i, ni J .1 1 i '
... . .... v....vi-, ... h.niir.iii niiu -.-s-
rnitt-d to the ".Tefe Tum" to be enter-'
tamed In a lietlttlng manner before being
ivoitid to tl,.; camping ground, which
In 'he meantime would be made ready
f'ir o, upancy He also gave the name (
of an American meichant In the town ,
lin would lie ready to furnish such sup-
Plies of food and i lotlilng as the Amerl-1
i n loinmander and his men would
ed With a low- how and an "adloj"
h bie.ithtd affection, he was gone.
Xi llet'i'piiun Coniinlltei-,
.i ,, ociock to tun minute -Major'
. i ih ns ami nis men weio at tlie pass
,'fnl'ng from the railway station to the'.. wlu lcavc hh0rty to assume charge District Attorney Is prepaied to carrv
mart of the city, as directed the night f .. , Kour thousand paraded the I the case lo the highest courts if neccs
tofore but there wan no Hgn of the re- r , ,0.,lay in honor of Carranza. The I sary. A demand was also Included that
Mil
ii nit- i.irm-
n the nlgnt
tlblre '"'i i,'1.'','1 "S"k.'n "I8"!
minutes and
,c mlsumler-
n wdio had
t'li" thinking he might hav
If.ll.l 111.. IW.tllu lllllu .......
... "
c upon htm the night before ho
'.w u inrougii tne ciiy lo mo -riazr.
.uu'i . .pal .mil sduglit out the oftlcluls
'"
o'
"i 'he i 'ind of the garrison, his men
in I'll' rni'.i nt Ime llnliiir thr. Plii7:t Hide of
tile i eel ,
1 ,"'''' ,
A"er inciting President Herrera and
.c, l.oz,,, j..fc .le las annas of
' ; "mnK vl;"T ,W,!,K ,on i t en. CarninM announced to-night that
' ;,I,K'."' ''.!"' 'n,n,i,,N, '; '''.he wl l receive all diplomats formally
aii Major Tompkins returned to the J 'e ' L ' ,,, 'Utlunal nalace.
i ... ...
..-..too Major lotnpK u.s reiurneii io me
'i-e Th. te il was found a tremendous
"w I hiiil gaihctfd. the members of
1, h eiii riling "Viva Villa" or "Viva
' ww" us t'elr fancy dictated, and
Ii J'. llg -tones,
M ijor Triinpltins, wlthoiit hurrying the
M'e ,1 wli'cli his men travelled, so ills
I' "d ma force that all approaches to
t which he wax travelling were
ruaid d ind tlie mob prevented from ,
'g ii fiont or fioni making attack I
tr in
T"
a
7" I
'her Hank, In tlils manner, the
'niitry In the vicinity of the rail
jtlon was reached and Major
ii begun to breathe morn freely
" of a feeling Hint the danger
ol bteu readied and passed, liut
ii 'aken.
t,i
Ii" i
I'd iv,
T '
tl.r ,
i inli pressed ot, nnd freed from
streets be
streets PC-
1 1 1 1 1 ot the narrow'
till Pi
win in over I ho inllway yards
""i on io the adjacent hillsides ; just
' lii.n moment it volley was llred by
a s-ioiip ,,f Mien from earthworks which
'imvii one of ill.- many hills which stir
'hi ul lln city mid it hall of bullets
HI .iiniing tin, nien of Mujor Tompkins's
nninanil anil two of them fell
''"'"I 'I he Hi st men to die In actual
iitil'lv in this c.xieillllonary campaign,
"I'lif, ire Friends."
A io aic those men'.'" demanded
M.iiir T.inipktns of Gen. I.ozano, who
lid Ihig AmtiiiciiiiH mid who
kt oi.-1-d tlie ni to get nvviiy from the
'I'll ',i Inn of tlio town,
I ic am f, lends; don't o,l see they
ouiieiH nnd that Hie Mexican flag
fl.es over llieni?" was Kozuno's reply.
Co ii I i, inert on Ftfth Pag,
CARRANZA TROOPS MASS;
MA Y BLOCK
1,500 Men Rushed to Parral Under Gen. Herrera,
"American Hater' Washington Believes They
Will Prevent Pershing From Going South.
Washington. April 20. Hacking up
the warning whlcli they gave several
days ago to Gen. Pershing, commander
of the American expedition In Mexico,
i not to proceed any further south than
UH advance column, are
i-arranza military aumoruies at
Chlhtiatuia,
the State Department ws
a,'v,l,cl to.day, are massing 1,5
,he vicinity of I'arral.
00 troops
It was at I'arral that the recent at
tack by Carranztsta soldier on Ameri
ca n troops under Major Frank Tomp
kins took place.
According to reports to the Depart
ment, the Mexican forces are bel' sent
for the most part from the Carranza
garrison at Chihuahua, although It Is
said the movement has been undertaken
apparently without the knowledge or
concent of Gen. Carranza or War Mln-
ordinate military commanders rather
Government Itself Is any less determined
to Insist on a withdrawal of the Ameri
can forces.
That anything like an Immediate with
drawal is not being considered by the
Administration at this time was indi
cated by an announcement' made this
afternoon by Secretary of War Hake.'
tlml 111 iiiltllttitM In lh flirht new unrri.
panes already contracted for by the I)e-
roll's Hepon nallrd.
ar as ine xvar iieparimeui Knows
I no American officer haa made any such
GEN. OBREGON TOLD
THAT VILLA IS DEAD
Amnesty Refused to Julio
Aeosta. Villa Chief in
Columbus Raid.
jiec.'.i( I'aUU ,)rp-iter. to Tiik Sux.
Mkxico Citt. April 20, Gen. I.uls
Gutierrez at Chihuahua city has tele-
graphed to Gen UbreRon that he Is In-
,.,.., Vin nf s-Hi.ilceinln I
...
wounds, ami was nur.e.i near
Sail Francisco tie Horja. In the State t.r I
Chihuahua. Gen. Gutierrez sa.vs he is
having excavations m-d- around there
to discover the body. Ii nil will have It
taken to Chihuahua city for identlnca.
......
iioo.
Tl.e Vllllsta eader Julio Aeosta. one
of the Columbus millers, has asked am- ,
nesty of Geu Gutierrez, which was 1
re-fused, as according to Gen. Obregon's
orders the Columbus raiders aic all
outlaws and not entitled to clemency.
Gen. Obregon reports that the Vllllsta
lender Canuto Iteyes has surrendered at
pedrloena. Pura.igo, with 800 men, arms I
an i unimunltlnn.
Foreign Minister Agullar, who has Just
I arrived here, resumed Ills duties to-day. i
I He told correspondents that ex-Mlnlster
of the Interior Itafael Zubaran cap-1
. . . ..oiiolnted Mexican Mln-
..,', nernmnv and Austrla-Hungnry.
maiorjy cf the paradcrs were Indians
. vneiilmlleo mid surrounding towns :
from Xoclilmllco ami surrounding towns
. CLMiy number eif troops, Govern-
" el,,poyees. llce and firemen. Car-.
";;,; ot ,,ra(1(.i hut rPV,e ed the
........ ,11.1 fttt i.;i r
' f,om'., balcony of the Munlcl-
((( ,,alac Tho paraders' banners did
i not bear very Interesting devices, the ma-j
lorlty mertiy lauding Carranza as thelMltehel on the matter and said that be
upholder of national Integrity nnd sovcr-"1 believed the .Mayor had not understood
r....i "Heath to Ileactlon- 1 the strength of feeling against the plan.
'..rle" One allegorical float had large
',rl - ' " Vieids of Huerta and M-
papier-mache heads of Huerta ana
elglltv
' .' . , nti,,ii i nttace
to-morrow at the national palace.
VILLA ALIVE; HIDING.
San
Antonio Hear He Ha a
Double.
.v AvTtwio. Tex.. Alii II 20, A ie-
' ,.i,,i here in-nleht that Villa Is
, oniy v(. and In hiding within
,. .,.. nf t,e American troops, liut
,,, ,nnlt nf bis death and burial
ihm the tenort
is iinothei rus" to miow pursuers on
his track,
This same uport says that Col. ( luz
Helmut!, who has often been mistaken
for Villa, owing to a sulking similarity
nf countenance, has U'cn used befnrn to
1 tiIv those searching for the bandit
... ii.i..,,.., ultnrlnr Klitlnre than
tlliei. i.-iin.ti - ..
Vil'a oth"r"'lu their resemblancn In al
most' perfect. It U said Helman wan
wounded at Guerrero nnd not Villa, al
though Villa Ik reported to have been In
lhlH IK"'' , , . . . .
Another report received here Indicate
a movement of Carrutiza troops to
OJInaga. oiposlte Presidio, Tex., with
InstPVictlonH to leslst any Invasion "by
foreigners." Tho loyalty or ine garrison
at OJIuugn had been questioned and 200
Carranza troops from llosque Honlta
were tiansferred there, and 250 more are
said to be on their way to OJInaga. They
ure rt-iiortcd to have five machine nuns
and two field pieces,
OJInaga haa been mentioned as a prob
able route for a ahorter line of com
munication for the American troojis and
It la believed this report l responalble
for th Increase In force of the Carratua
garrlion.
VILLA HUNTl
Investigation. While the Stato'Depart
inent Ik Mill withholding an answer to
Cnrransa's formal nolo calling on the
United States to treat with the Mexican
Government for a withdrawal of the ex
pedition. Information comes to the Ue
throw of Carranza Ik growing In favor
throughout Mexico,
The Department I still without definite
Information, however, n lo the where
abouts of Diaz or continuation of the
pi ess reports that organized troops act
ing la hl cause are operating In the
south,
The War t)epartuiei,l Is convinced not .
only that Villa Is alive but that he was
present In I'arral at the time the Car
ranza garrison attacked the American
troops. That the garrison In that city 1
sorhemn Cldhual'Jua 'm hen'rt'with ! ,r' ,lullI''!'s ,'oldl"s wnK lllcd Har Information to the American authorl-
Vllla has been long thought In Department ' Surrogate's Court on an appllca- mAdc lu0 by ,hc omcal
quarters and tho conviction Is expnwscd tlon to determine whether or not Mr. ( irr,, Uro,,u to-night,
that tin, attack on Major Tpmpklns was Hurkness was a resilient of New- York' thlH Mnt)lent Von der Ooltz ays
ftom"Km"r.,0 nt thp tlme 0 M Wa !,,", UW"T that preceding the plot against the canal
. 'subject to a tax here on his extcnsl ; n ,,hellle for ,auK Canadian towns on
Mn.l Kntrr Clllr.. ""ah,.,, Mr. Harkness wa more Uw great lakes with a motor boat
In this connection it Is common feeling ,),., years old when he died and mounting machine guns was discussed,
among members of the General Stafr that haj ,e,.n "n, poor health he left no will. t,ut Wil5 rejected as the result of "un
U through representations of Carranza , Tlu ,,u,k of ,,rllfrty will go to , r.ixor iblc Inform itlon" received by the
the American Government orders the, iarry s Harkness. and his datlgh-i ''"0,'""c ""jrmauon rcceucu n) ine
. i . . . n nn. ini, ' ' . . J. .'. .. ...... , .. r a ti . . I ... i f S.trt.i M l?tnl,Miwf nhnMt f.'int. Sehll
cltle the chase after the bandit might
aiiil-iiviiii uwv,n iiwi run i .... ......
it well he abandoned
Concerning the new aeroplanes pur
chased for the Mexican expedition It i
was stated at the War Department that
whereas the MrRt batch of four Curtlss
uiacnincs now on ine nororr iunr
horse-power engines and a carrying ,
capacity each of two persons, the later j
machines ordered will have 10 horse-.
power engines and a carrying capacity j
of three person? and elshty gallons of
gasolene. They will be particularly sun-
able for the lilgh altitude work In)
Mexico, but like the ret will be un-,
armored and for reconnaissance purposes j
on.
I
.
MORE TROOPS FOR PERaHINu. "
I'.OIIO Urn Will Riilrr Mrxlrn at
oliimha To-iln, .
Kt. I'.vso. April lit,-Additional troops
for Gen. I'ershlng in Mexico are moving
from border points to-night
It Is raid 2,000 men will go In at Co
lumbus to-morrow to reenforce the ex
peditionary army It, Mexico. Troops I..
M and N of the Kluhth Cavalry and
Companies II and C of the Twenty-
rnil.M, lHr.t. , , t .a I , n., .n
. . , , , .
run nil" lo-iusiu lor v ominous to
Iuihi it jhtlt OI tllf Iie-n liirir,
The Infantry companies are at
full!
strength, ISO men each.
RICHMOND THREATENS
TO GET OUT OF CITY
T7T
uesinenis ten .Mayor lliev ll
Have Xo (iarbae Plant
on Island.
At a meeting of the vlullrtin-e commit
tees of the civic organizations of Statrn
island, held last night In the Supreme
Court Clmmbers in lloroiigh Hall. St.
ueorge. about 200 of the larger tnx-
pavers of the Island deeded ihm if v..,v
xvirk itiMistw n i,,.n..Mi..n .i. . .i
)iw i,r,o0,nno garbage Incinerator ' on
Hlchmond Morough In stilte of the onpo.
st0l cf ,. residents, then Richmond
though will have no more of the city
administration.
The merlK eUet to Muor
Mi.-..., :.:..V".. " :.. . . '. I '
.uiucjivi vt men couiaiueii viiiuany n
threat of secession, avowing that "If
everything that In undesirable or ob-
noxious to the other four boroughs is
to ,i forced on the people of Hlchmond
lloroiigh. the time has come for the
people of that borough to secede from
the greater city."
The letter, which was dinfted by
I.ouls Dreyfus, one of the laigest prop-
erty owners of the borough, was rigned
by the fifty-one members of the vigilance
committees anil the taxpayers. It will
be delivered to the Mayor to-day or to-
morrow, in It he Is warned that the
I Itlclimond people will not allow the In
clnerator on the Island, and tli.it the
.Mayor .mtciiei sigu the Cromwell hill,
which amends the city charter to tiro.
hlblt such garhige ilants in any bor-
ough wllhotit the consent of the rcsl-
I dents.
, William O. Wlllcox. president of the
Hoard of Kdiicatlon, was present
He
told of a conference he hud had with Mr.
He also understood the Mayor intended
' "Ik" the Cromwell bill, which would
occurrence Impossible In
the future.
'
NAVY BILL PLANS FOR 79,000.
Itoauli Draft, With All llefalU,
.. ... ,
l.oes to rrelnr llHiilrl.,
Washington, April 20. Provision for
the Increase of the enlisted personnel
of the navy to 113,000 men, and of the
.Marine Corps to almost 14,000 Is mado
In tlie lough draft of the naval bill
vvlilcli was completed by the mib-com-mlttee
nf the House Naval Affairs Com
mittee and sent to the Navy Department
to-day for legal revision,
The measure wan drawn inalnlv to
serve as a basis for the llnal bill to be
submitted lo the full committee. The
porsonnel Increases rail for approxi
mate!)' 15,000 mnro men in the nav'y mid
from 3,000 to 1,000 In the Murine Corps.
A romprehenBlve plan for the estab
llidinient of an efficient naval icserve
ronpn Is also III the bill, This provide
for the division of reserve personnel Into
six classes ami Is so broad ns to Include
all clasrieH from the ex-enlisted man with
naval training to the civilian expert
whose sorvlors may be of value. In time
of war. Provision Is made also for the
admission nf amateur aeronauts Into the
aeronautical reserve.
The nib-committee In large measure
approved the Items, proposed by Mecre
tary Daniels for the equipment of Gov
ernmental plants for llin manufacture nf
war material, Including the toijiedo
plant at Newport. Many of the Gov
ernment owiiernhli) features, however,
have been left for the full committee to
decide, as Is the hulldliw programme.
It Im not prolmble that Uio completed
bill will be ready before May, IS,
HARKNESS ESTATE
NEAR $100,000,000
Figures Are Hcvealcd in ('ou
tput Against. Inheritance
Tnx in Now York.
KENTI'C'KV IIOMK IS MVKN !
Son and Two Daughters to
Share Standard Oil Man's
Kstate.
I.amoi, Vernon Itarkuess, third vice
president of the Standard (HI Company
I nd second largest stockholder In the
c011(.e,.( wllo California on .
.lanuary IT. 1915. left an estate estl-
mated at moie than 1 nn.0on.o0f. This,
was Indicated yesterday when a list of 1
ICH, .XlrS, l.lla II, r.llW.UU" IU I limuuij,
ami Mrs. Myrtle K. Maeomuer oi
I'alclnes Itancho, near Holllstir, Cal.
to ,,I(W through proceedings entering
nrary n vear and 1 tin- taking of S00
,, nf 'lesilmonv that the decedent's
VOUIISCI lOT l.UIIllllOHVI iitnn
i,.Ka resilience was in .New torn, wnerc
llc had a town hous.. at '.'33 Fifth ave-
11UPi hut the Harkness estate cut. nds
(hat his home for many years had been
at Walnut Hall Farm, near Lexington,
one of the most famous htock
breeding farms in America
YXn, the undertaker who loiulilcteil
Mr. Harkn"-s's funeral In his linfls.
here was alled as Witness In the eay
for the purpose of showing that when
the decedent's wife died In I '.: the
Fifth axenue house was "beautifully
furnished. ' wheieius at the time of the
fiiner..! service! for Mr. Harkness the
house was bare and the chairs for the
funeral paity were .camp stools fur
nished by the undertaker.
I'alil nltr. Income Tax.
The evidence 111 the cae ehnue that
the income tax paid by Mr Harkness s
estate for It'll amounted to SuS.OaT
and counsel fo- Comptroller Travis cou-
tended that the fact that the tax wax
paid to the levenue collector in fan
... .. .
Francisco rather man to me conecioc
for tl(1 dlrttrict III wh
hlrh Lexington Is
situated showed that Mr. Harknes did
not regard the Walnut Hall Farm as ,
Mm home. Harry . tiarKiiess. ine sou.
Ilarkness'ri stocks and bond because the
right of the Stale to tax these securi
ties must be determined tlit, but It was
h.' .
the estate win pronauiv u.- me mrgem
ever taxed here
Property which tin- estate admits Is
taxable here consists of the house at
'.133 Fifth avenue, worth 2T5,A0ii; the
house at 5 Hast Seventy-sixth istieet,
JS2,j00; place at Hastbampton, I.. 1..
$10,01,0, and a plot on Flushing Creek,
yutens county. I73,iu"i.
Mr. Harkness s yacht, Wakiva II, Is
valued at SlSa.OOO In an affidavit by
Fiauk ltowue Jones, but among the de
ductions claimed from this valuation
nere repairs amounting to $131,7l'! anil
lffnrriLshliig costing CT.ti! The per
sonal effects and furniture In this State
ale valued by the Harkness administra
The largest blocks of stocks rhown In
Wi,e srh. ,hile
' lJu. f'1""--'' " th. t.tate ..re
tors at only Jl.st'0.
me luinm-m
, .
suuimi Oil of New Jernj-
standard Oil of Valllorni.t
Aiulo-Anieriean Oil fo
S'i"'d'd Oil Co ' '' Vork
2amufd OlMif l!!di,,i,.i
Prairie Oil aiitl lias fo
I Ohio Oil Co
mf u'e Piritl'"lin'.U ' '
v"' mini Oil ( o " '."
Southern IVnn.ylvania Oil Co
American Sucar Helium: Co .
Mian
U Jim
CVOl
. . XSi'i
. II..""
. l.trj
l.ftij
. -.357
sew
t.ti'.V
nlljS
I';is
-.161
I'eimiu Ivauia lt.nlro.nl
'.,s-,'
JntrriMtioual Harvester loiniiiou
lutrrnatlonal Harvester pieferred
liiteriutloiiiil Harvester -'o of
Jersey i nmmtui
lnteriialiiinal Harvester nf New
sey iirefei-trtl
New ll.iven Hillroad
Haltlmore und Ohio
American smeller sei mines.
', r.ul
,vv
New
SO
Jer'
.-.(,
i.xi
'ttiw
foio
1 V.s
f
i'vi
, Manlinian llnily Co.
tnioii I'acifle .ornmnn
,, An h IT da v t se ting for
forth i ho ronton-
Un.,. nf ih. ..Ktoii. ... in Hie leu.tl iesl.
deuce of Mr. Harkness at the time of his!
death was filed by Harry S, Haikners, ni, ,
idniliilstriitor. who declttred he had been
n Ifslilent of l.exliigton, K for many
jears.
I- ..I N..ti.... 'IV..
...-I 1A,l tlint h tiv Wril. nulll in Snn ' lllni tllA ..Trvl .rVM ttii.li lml nr. .1. . .""" ' '" ' . lirtV I I II' lilt UIV C Hill,
1 " f-.w h.m-nn.1 .. .i, v. .ir A V.. T. JT. ... I oecause of President Wilson's bluff attl-
I ... . .r.J... .'i. .1,,.. '.... ..,i. JJr.rJ nJ i.r. ,u"t'' American press s comical I To Ileal With Klemrnt.
to ii tiit.-ii-.it ... ..v.... ..r,, ,.. . contr.tsl tv'th ilin mullt- ..ef..l,-.
The .schedules nlc.l with me Ie.il- on tho orders of on I'apen. the latter, .,., f . TJ ."; " .V" .: i "The American note l the Hrst (I
inonj-li, the Surrogate's Court yester- he say, telling bin. that he would .,r- . 0f a.Uemm Jf'whl JM '"u" ) "ilr' "f "
ii. iv i ii mil -iiott lou i.iiiii- ' -ii i.tiiKt- ttiiii .t niii.i rrf mil toil it-riiit. r.i
I Dominion rrom aiding thn mother conn-
Olio of the exhibits offered bv num. lrv, I received the lllshtnen, who
, sel for Comptroller Travis to aid In es- brought maps and details of their plan,
j tabllshlng the State's cotileiitlnn that the lleloie going In Haltlmore to consult
i entile estate should be taxed here wtielwllh Consul l.ueilerltz regaiding the
I the funeral notices published at the time' scheme I employed one man, Charles
, of Mr. Haikness's death which refern il
to his residence at H33 Fifth iivenue and
amsiunced that Interment was to be in
Wuodl.ivvn. whuie .in elaborate family
mausoleum had been elected after the,
I death of Mrs, Harkness
In answer to this contention Hatty
1 S. Hatkness testified Hint while his
father regarded his Fifth aveniie iesl
deuce as his homo prior to 190. I nnd had,
lived their he never slept In the bouse
after the death of his wife ami had only
gone there occasionally to observe the
coiidltlon of Hie properly. Tho liou-e
was dismantled gradually nnd the bulk
Ol llir coiue-oin niiipjieu in it iiiiiitl lt.ui
i' arm.
For years the Fifth avenue residence
has been In charge of caietnkers. Part
of the evidence consisted if letters In
which the rale of the properly was ills
cussed, It was nlso established that
Mr. Harkness bad paid pcisnual taxes
In Kentucky, hut had sivoin off his
personal taxes hero,
In several letters written by Mi. Hark
ness and submitted by the estate the
decedent referred tci Walnut Hull Farm
as his home, It was proved that for
years before his death Mr. Hurkness kept
Ills securities lu a safe deposit vault In
New Jersey, but they were brought to
New York city shortly before ho died.
The Stale put 111 evidence registers of
the Waldorf-Astoria, HI. ltegls, llelmont
nnd other hotels to prove that after the
name of Mr, llarkncsii thr. word "city"
was written, but the administrators In
sisted that the words wcro not written
by Mr, Htuknens, but by members, of hie
family,
ISPY TELLS OF PLOT
TO MADE CANADA
Von tier (Joltz Reveal Also
Plan to Raitl Lake Coast
Towns. ,
RALKKIl BY BERXSTURFF
Von I'apen's Cheek Stubs Ap
parently Confirm Parts
of Confession.
ti"iul latitr litupaUh lo Tar. Sav
1.0MMI.V, April 20. A detailed sworn
statement ot tne pint against the Wei
l.,d ("anal and other activities of Ger-
m,n, HgnitM In the t'nited Statcj-, nude
to the Hrltlst, authorities by Horst von
,iPr r:nl,, ,.. i v... x'nrk. irlvlnir lm.
.... f .
machcr, who, Von Uer Goltz says, had
SUBBUBtca the scheme.
'iHiineil Canadian Inxaslim.
Vnother plan told of by Von der Goltz
waH jr invasion of Canada by a
recruited In the Fnltcd .States,
""c "" niicu ftiates.
nils plan, he fays, was proposed by
Capt. Iloy-Kd and Capt. ton I'apen, but
na!l .,h,u,Joni-d on the advice of Ambas-
s.ulor von Ilerustoi IT,
Von der ,.oltz say's that he discussed "
ic nlan to blow ui, the Wellan.l Canal
fli., t.l.iti f,. I.I..U ,1,1 tl.A Uu11ntwl l-'nna,
with I'onsul l.ueilerltz at Haltlmore and
i..i .. ..i i. .....
inri-K ..uo, v..,,,! ,,.n . ,n.
a"o toid him r,CPtTausc:ier:.Vmer:i elng an asMimp.loit of Inuulsltorlal'
lean representative of the Krupps and IPO"." r an attempt to sit in Judgment ,
hush.nd of Mine Gadskl. agreed to fur-'"" .nc ,"ni,u ot """' artitc at ,
m. -.!-
The former m tarv attache he rivh.
Tau-cher save him an order to the man
V orl 1 ,.v on I "al i he wo Id "n, ,i;torx'but w "ot Ame-lcal, Pre 4-
to an agent of Von de, Goltz In Ho- i to for Germany'H benetlt the
poke,,
After reat blur Huffalo. Von der Goltz
he r.v,ved .i telfKiain from Von
I'tpcn telling him that "i lawyer named
icvan had money anil instructions foi
...
miti ami mat lie tecelveti tin- inom.v.
Von der Goltz n.vs that he believes
,ha. the Cnlted States secret service
knew about the matter from beginning
to euu. lie asserts tntt von rapen tohl '
for his passage
mh lenit'iita urroliornlril.
rjr 11:,
I
contained in It are suppoitod by othet J In Germany or w I, ether the German pub
information now In the hands of the ' llc Is. aware of Its contents. No press
authorities imth here and In the i r.itctl
Mates, Some of the statements, it sa. s,
are coiiohorated bv stubs in dpt. von
I'apen's check IkkiI;,
"Von del- Goltz's statements,' the offi
cial statement says, "find detailed cor
roboration in the Von Papeu checks,
which he cmnot have known were in
the possession of the llrltlsh authori
ties "
Von der Goliz madf his statement on
the night of January .11. after it check
made payable to him by Von Papen was
shown tu 111 I it He then aske
to be
nermltteil to write out Ills story
Tliat stoty, as written and swoi n to
bv Von del Goltz. follows
"On August 3, 1H11. I left the Mexican
arin on leave and arrived at Kt Paso,
wheie Consul Kuck directed me to report j
to Von Papcn. After visiting Washing
ton and Asbur.v Park I arrived in New
York In mid-August, stopping at the i
Holland House.
"I visited Vld-Cousiil
I Kr.tske. who
Huggestril that I avoid being seen about . crowning blunder of forcing the Cnlted
., .. . i i.. .. ,.i e nlL.'in.A- . .. i.A .i.i.. nr u. ml.u
' ' Olisilllllt, .11111 lie niilllll lltJtll lilt
when lii meet Von Pnpen, A tew days
later I met Von Pa pen, I was asked
my opinion of a sclieme suggested by a
.a i. ...l.ll.,..
t ,-1 i,iiii v .tin iiuiiin, in i iti iiii'iiii.
tonus on the coast of the great lake's
t Willi a motor boat aimed with machine
guns. 'I he proiosai later was rejecten
owing lo Hie embassy letelvlng unfa-
voralile Information about Schumacher,
"' uus then leiiiested to assist 111 a
i scheme tot the Invasion ol Camilla by
a fone lecrulted fnun teseivlsts In the
I'nited Stales, aided by German war-
ships then In the Paclllc. This sclieme,
" "o il wns ptoposei, ny v on rapen anu
"ov-i'.ii. i.uer mm a naniiont'ii on ine
nd,V':" ',",.1,fr' Ul,,f' , ,
, s,"il 0, ''''l"'11 !lKl1''11 "lr e"nter
w'l Irishmen, who propovid the
dynamiting of rallwav junctions, grain
elevators, and the locus of canals con
uectlng the great lakes. It was hoped
, '"''fy Canada ,,,! prevent the
Itucker, alias Tucshemier. a an asslst-
ant. who obtained a passport under the
name or Ta lor. He also Introduced mc
to the c.iplalti of a German ship at the
time Hi the harbor, proposing that I
make uc of part of his crew and one
officer.
irmniies lo Oel l tinitillr,
"Heluinlng to New Vork I selected
thiee men to assist me, ami acquainted
them with part of the details uf the
scheme, I received a chock fioin Von
Papcn. whlcli was cashed for ine by a
Mr Stallfotth, a member of a German
I JuJ,
Iteganling the iiiaterlal and ilvna-
mite needed. Von Papcn Informed that
Capt. Tauscher of Krupp's agency had
iiKit-ed lo fiiinUh thrin, I sought Tau
scher. lie gave tne a letter of Introduc
tion lo the Pupont Powder Company,
lecoinmeijdlug II, II. Taylor & Co., and
supplied me with an order to the man
In charge of the dynamite, barges lying
In the New Jersey side of the Statue of
Liberty,
"Tauscher told me he would send pis
tols by messenger to Hoboken to be de
livered there to one of my agents at 11
certain restaurant, as ho was liable for
punishment If ho delivered them In New
Vork without a permit, In order to
get dynamite It was necessary to hire
u motor boat at a place near 146th
si reel, Harlem, and put the dynamite
aboard In suit cases. After getting the
explosive 1 went by taxlcab with two
COnHHIMd. ,oil S0MII4 f Ofl,
BERNSTORFF ASKS TIME;
BREAK MAYBE A VER TED;
NOTE DELIVERED IN BERLIN
GERARD PRESENTS U. S. NOTE;
CHANCELLOR GOES TO KAISER
Emperor, With Von Bethmann-Hollweg, Expected to
Reach Decision for Reply to Submarine Note
Press Comment in London and Berlin.
Uep.li.v, April 20. Ambassador Gerard
llvered the American note to the Her-1
delivered the American note to the
lln Foreign onice at r. :30 this evening
and It Is expected that Foreign Secretary
von Jagow delivered It promptly.
The last section of the note was re
ceived in the American Kmbassy olllce
Just before noon and embassy clerks fin
ished t) rewriting n complete copy at 3
I'. M. After going over the translation
carefully Ambassador Gerard obtained
an Immediate appointment and motored
to the Foreign Ofllce.
The newspapers announced late In the
afternoon that Chancellor von Uethmann
Hollweg has stnrted for the front to
spend Easter with the Kaiser. It Is as
sumed that the. American situation will
bo discussed ul this meeting and Ger
many's decision on the ultimatum of the
United States practically framed.
Til. Frankfurter y.rltiiMn nlAkefl A
pointed answer to the charge of the
Cologne Votksicltung that I'resldent
Wilson bothers Germany with a de
maud for an examination of nil her V
boat commanders every time an lins
llsh vessel Is sunk.
"When a ship i Mink with the loss
of American live there is nothing 1
for th' American Government to do."
,he . 1' rankfurtcr .riluva. 'but
",c p"e
what Information tnev can HUtm.v on
... , ' , '
' iiimuir r mi
r'""' V" 1,1IC" ree.pe.-uuny lo an)
.. nmii'iiirm i ieiut'iii vv neon may maive.
exiuessiou -principles or nunia'iitv
"Will XrTrr . Irld."
Special CabU l)riitch lo Tim Si
l.uNoos, April 20, Count rtcventlow,
'"'": " '.".'"," ". 'on imai-
ITI?-, ' iJ
ileTlo'd
.
sou is master wear turn in a time when
'the svtord of Damocles remain, loo lornr
. . , ....
suspended. All can see that It Is ..nlv
a wooden one."
There 's nothl"g h.ie to i.how whether
the American note h,t,i iteen published
' comment on the note lias tK'en received.
The comment nuotcd in the lull;; Vx-
prut sugcests that the note has not been
published, in Germany.
"U. S. MKAXRUSISESS:'
malrrtlaiii Correniioiiilriil xn)
Public I nrj Other I oniiiirnl,
ptnn1 ,)!,;, rirc'. i Tnr six
1.0NPON, April 20.
j ne vinsieruani
cm resiiotidt'iit of th"
)n(y 7'rlcj;i npfc
, ays
" i eir gram" nom vvasiiington pup-
I I'.she.! in lierlin this morning have
greatly perturbed the German public,
who have been systematically fooled bj
ine atitnoriiies wnn ine comioriing
thought that all America would d j w ould
be to talk and continue to send notes,
"Now that It is Heen that America!
means business, the German public is I
i angrily repro idling the leaders with the
, illittv? lu tilt- rtut- hi tor .iiir.i.
i "Commercial Interests In Geimany
view tne consequences or tilt- trouiue , Jn commenting on tlie Piesident's lan
wlth the Cultcd States with alaiin. re:i - jguage t.,- t(Vf i.ifuMe,' Ci;ttr savs.'
IXIIIK mat mil i.lll s,u, ail tor tlilll-
cultles between the Allies and America.
on which Germany has been counting
Instantaneously vanish but that Ameii
can munitions factories would no at me
servlcn of the Allies and German) '
snips in .xmorio.iu ports wowiu ne -1'icru
linn useo in me service in ine .vines
The llorllner 'oil say:
"Wo have heard enough of the si 'v
reproaches levelled at us by America s
seagoing citl-eiis If the Washington
gentletnen believe that we have nothing
moie important io n,. man iiivcsuga,.
n.-hlliAr tiliv conn t'lltlli. ilr ver lilt ll.t.I
.......... .... . . -
a lock of his precious hair ruffled while
niT-nioK it. r.uii.ii-, tiit-ii im- i.t-w.i.- in tot' insincerities wherewith his former pro
White House are terribly mistaken. , ,st,M ,,1V hoi n counteied Tint Ger
"Why do Americans choose ships in ,,,. -iH fultll the conditions specified
which they can be hurt ' Does the Amer-1 there i. no reason to expect, but upon
lean Govoiimi"nt den.v that theio are the eventual consequences of the Presi
rascals among America's sons" If such 1 dent's message It will be fruitless to
rascals are paid with llrltlsh gold to l speculate, America tit least ma) he
make dangerous ocean trips why snouiil
President Wilson make us lespouslblo
for their lives" If Germany should
climb down seilous tumble would be
bound to come from within Geim.ni)'s
leadeis. We prefer that Double should
come from without."
LONDON PRAISES WILSON.
Calls nillerrnrr I'nnrlfnl Hrlttrrn Pahis, Apitl 20. The morning papers Sci clary LatiMitg was infoimed to
llrrak anil War. ' "n,1 ''eift the text of Piesldent u..y b.v Count v .nt Hernt-t. ulf lb.it an m-
.specnil Cife IttspatcK lo Tnr M,x
London. April 20. The Onffu .NVics
features an editorial on President Wll-
son's note to Germany, saying In pail
What does President Wilson the most
honor Is his Insistence upon the observ
ance of the lecognlzed laws of naval
w.irfaie, triespeetlve of whether that
branch, in a particular Instance, tilings
American lives into peril.
"This Is a high ground to take and
woithy of a great nation whose moral
und material force Is backing the de
mand.
The paper expresses the opinion that
Germany Is confronted with the necessity
of making a rapid choice between sub-
mission or war, adding that all signs
Indicate her choice will be war.
"No doubt," the article continues,
"theVe will be many stopping places bo
fore tliat point Is reached. None the
less the omens are ngnlnst a mainte
nance of peace, The distance between
a severance of relations and open war
cannot be determined by textbook prece
dents, but the Interval Is likely to be
short,
"The obstacles to Germany's submis,
tlon are tlniMt tnmiraountable. flhe
has advertised the submarine campaign !
,v more loudly than the assault un
xerutin. The weapon baa proed un
deniably effective In accentuating the
transport facilities of the Allies.
"To abandon her malpractices at the
dictation of America would Involve both
her prestige and her military advantage,
lo the abandonment of which it Is hardly
believed she will reconcile herself,
.vla?"LTy ."""i""1;?.
weighted the balance heavily in favor j
or the Allies."
tlx lilted Pen era Virtually One.
Tne Daily T(Utiri)ili hays;
"Without making assumptions regard
ing the pending developnwnta It can be
said to-day that the civilized Towers of
the earth ale, virtually one. That Ic
plainly written between the lines of the
remarkaldc no:?. It Is Implicit In evety
word of the President' Hpcech before
Congress.
"Whether Germany yields or lefuses
what is now rternly and ieremptorlly
rwjulreil of Iter makes little difference
In the moial situation, as between the
to 'ountrles words have been employed
when of no lept-ntanci' or reparation
could extinguish the effect.
There can be no certain!) with le
gard to the nature of llerlln's reply, but
desperation and raging spite have the
war makers In their clutches. At the
(ame time the unexpectedly dovvni Ight
iml HW..i.Iiif- rh!.r.ietne of llio n,.t ..n.
...
';o. hut coine . , U,e German people with
" .,
", .'t , i? An . Im r 7..
?H&4
' ""'"':'.'."'"'
I'1'" l'"'(. l'ot dcsctihes the Ame,-
'""''- "a tr.odltlc.l ultimatum with-
"""i-
inert' is no uouiii, ine 'o.tr says,
"that an Interval for consideration will
, be allowed and there Is no doubt that
I Germany will prolong the Interval and
or.ee mole attempt to Inveigle the I'nited
.suites into a contioversy.
I, i1",?'" WT """""'f ""
'" "T V'".1 f "on-?"T"'""'(:
i " r wm, n ri. not
deter-
mini
ll., II, 1,1 in ll.'ll ttllll III., lll.u n aninnl I,
, , , ; " "'
"aval warfare a shni.tiine war on
oimmeiie which consists In Iniliscilml
iiate annihilation, it Is ., most Inieivst-
lllR eXIU'l'llnent.
"As for Germany, she is contronte1
with a demand that sbn it'lluo,uish Iter
principal Wf.tion at Mil and will, of
course, do her utmost to evade the de
mand. Above all will she sick to gain
time, foi Just now tltiif is eveiythlng to
her. How much time file can steal
defend upon Piesldtnt Wilson"
The bill1; GmidiV .avs
"The very patience America lias dis
played makes 1'rtsldent Wilson's im
peaitiniciit all tlie more powerful, It
will bo a iflief to the world that the
grciieM neutral nation has taken a dim
stand upon International law The
i .xiues win lie content lo iet tlie r case
mi that found itlon They aio at war
on . tun- mi oiaii tioi.ueii niai i.iw nun,
tne neginning mui win continue the
striKRlc until it is. made Impos-lble for
any tuition evei again to delnce the
world with bloodshed because she re-
tiiecis no law nut Her own mlgnt.
The tllolir .-ays that suspension of
diplomatic i elation., do,.. not mean that
the I'ultcd States would necessarily he
In a st.n,. of 'tar with Germany, but
a repetition of the offence bv Getmauv
. might lead to tallation,
T
Offers ti I, Ine of Unreal.
" .angll.Ue of this kind h.-ttveen
gieai roweis noes not leave open ,1
wide tliolce Germany s given the al
ternative of abandoning Its suhni.irliio
. Harfare or eeislng to let i
1 in,.s of the Vniied State
atn tlie friend-
The lone
r t, mess,1Kl, foreshadow
s In the latter
, t,.lH) t)(1M. M1) tli ,,.,,,,,,..,, ,,Mk f
diplomatic relations. President WiNon
,, mapp,.(I , f()r hlnmelf ., line of
.1H-tiim liit-li admits of no retreat"
T1. ,, ..,,(lr H,U(, thilt ,
significance of the President's review
nf tho situation Is that he no longer
...,., . . ...
itiiiioois oi, ic,, ii cognizance oi ine irui!
1 character of German sllcy and of tho
lOIKil.llllltieil upon II.IVIIIK niKlieil 1 11"
point where sho Is no longer compelled
to wixir the full llwiy of official lieu
trality as between man and boast.'
PARIS EXPECTS H REAR.
Malln" Plrnsed nt Prospet l
llnplnre WHh "Plrnlrs."
, l iihiii s siuicioeni in nine nil t'lioma-
, t.on, but they neverthelfs.s expressed the
i opinion that the situation between the
I'nited states nnd Geimany is grive
Thr .oniiin) s.t)s that a intitjfo be.
Ivveen the two countries Is imminent
"The action of War-hlnntoii will havt
latreachilig fouseqiielices for tin rulvilu
of the I'nited States," the .ViiHu te-
marks "Fiance uwalts ciiltul) tho
eventual itiptiiir. America could not
give us Kleatir s) iiiKitb) than she lias
Illle.ldy'tllVell, bllt WO will feel llloi.ll jo)
tu see this noble nation break nil relation
with a nation of pirates which pio
lipltaleil the pteselit wiuld ttageil)."
Ilollmiil Keenly llltoresletl.
Sptrial I'ahU i,t;iifri fo Tins M'x
Amstkiiham, via London, Aptll 21
The crisis between the United Stale nnd
Germany is follnweil with keen inlet est
ill Holland,
Tlie fmiffr'sMiiif ill His otliei ueulial i
to join III America's cIToits to icstialn
fcubinarlnc win fine within nio'e himiatie
limits.
Tho Tclrpraaf exiilcssrs the belief t i.i
Germany will have to )leld.tu Amcilva's
demands,
Amltassador Sees Hope, of
Compromise Alter Lan
sin' Conference.
WASHINGTON AWAITS
ACTION HY (IKKMANY
.... ,j( i rpi,f
VtllSOII l" 11111 III olallU 1 1IHL
rnlawfiil Snlnnariiie At-
tacks Must Knd.
"r'-'Brr ten days dklw
IN 1IKPLY IS KXPKCTED
Mijrlit Accept .Mediterra
nean .Met hods Another
Ship Sunk. Is Report
Wasiii.x'iiThn. April 2". With the sev
erance of diplomatic relations dependent
upon Germany's next move, all ts In
Washington ale now turned tovvarii
lierlin.
How will the German Government re
ceive President Wilson's demand that
present methods of submarine warfitra
be Immediately abandoned .' Will Ger
man accept the demand, reject It, or
offer to compromise" Would lie Presi
dent consider a . omlilonilsi: ' Is tha
dlp'.ooiltle bleaU followed piksslbly by
more -erious louseiineiices, inevitable?
There questions were iippci most in th
minds or leadeis In Washington to-day.
Tim fear that tho subm ii'iuc contiu
versy ha- now reached a stagu where It
cannot be illiiloniatlcally adjusted gath
ered strength during the da.v
routine mln lion it ml I'rolesls.
Plesulellt Wll-oll received lllllldllils ot
I telegrams commending bun for Ills linn
stand III ilcleiii'f oi .xine, icin rignis.
Members of Congres-j also weie beslegeil
by telegrams urging them to avoid war
or anything that mlgnt lead to war.
William J. Ilryau, with the peace and
arbitration propaganda, aimed In Wash.
Inston and Immediately began working
with Congress le.oin- li an elfolt lo)
stir up feeling ng.iu.st mole se ions de
velopments in the Get man situation
Count von IttinstoiiT. til" Ger.uan Am
bassadoi. Is probtbly the one man In
Washington to-night who can pi edict
with any aceuiay vvli.it the action of
the German Foreign nillcc uia.v be Ha
Is understood to believe It Is an even
guess wliejher tit ptttiii.it 1'- H'laMons all
severed. I'.ut this opinion Is ha cd on
the assumption that President Wilson
will no; insist on the .tbaitdoniiH'nl ot
Germany's Mihuiaiine w.nf.tie against
merchantmen, provided tiermanv makesi
n satisfactory offer to compromise
III Otllci.-ll qtl.ll e-, It belt" lilt- Plr-
lilent's stand Is looked on as iinctiiilvoca
.Hid the President's demand legardtd
as tln.tl and un .elding, the iiroi.c Is ot
adjustment sue considued reauio In
deed Noihing hnrt of ,11 iiiiuirdl.it4
, .,i. ..,.,!,. ,.M.t ,.f it,., ,,i,,.,ri.i..
campaign against inoichaiitiiicn as It
has been coutiiicte,', nnce th ''"Siinll,'?
,,f tin- war will sat.si)
It Is. Kl.tle-.! T r. ti I irtt I .
the l itslilelit.
Accniilllig t'
I hlirh author tv the Piesldent means that
, submarines must give up everv evasion
of Internal. ona! law when ho says that
"piont method,." must be abandoned.
I'tir X UII find fiirili,
"Geiniao subm.iiiiies, if they conduce
war against ciininienf , .uriere, must
niniliict It Jut as cruiseis or other
ships of war ate permuted to conduct
It bv the laws of nations," tins high
official states. "That is to say the
must heiii rforth follow the rule of vtn t
and sear. Ii bo fine siukini; a mcivhart
ship and provide for the safotj of th'i
Clew and passcngeis..'
'Would tho Piesldent Im s.it siled with
a ptotnli-e fioni Geimatis t letr.im front
sinking ships without warning and to
give time I'm tl,,. rrew to take t . th
boats"" was asi.t'.l
"No," wan tin en iph.it " lepi.v. 'no'
unless the Mihmar lie folliiHeti the visit
anil sc.n.h rule and abided ht the ncog.
Iilzid laws of nations, wtinh piescribe
under ivh.it t Hi novum',", ami within
what limits ,, warship ,nav capture or
. 1 . w' lu,c ur
iieeuo.v a nierciiantiuau '
Hon, iwhleiu Wilson ;
cretarv
ot State LaiiMpg nio understood, to te-
g.ml it as impossible fo, a Griiintn uub
lu.irlne to fulfil ilnse n qulrrmcnts, and
theitfmo the Pitelilent is coiivlticcd that
aliainloiiineiit of Get mate's subm.irlno
vv ;i i f.ti r- against iner. liaiHineii is iuiMr.i
tlvr Hut If German) wishes in usu lier
NtlPinil I'llles lis sue w ould Use Oltllsorl
, , . . .. .....
lair, the rnlttil States wmil.l have im
light tt) object, it was exploited Jt wns
added, however, that German) doubtless
leallzes tliat the einpl.i) incut of sxih
marines for ihi haul of woik s out of
f ! Ihp question
Ilfrnslorfl IsUs for 'I'liite.
meillati nvlll) HV I iel'lll.tllV 'o t lit' I'te.sl-
dent's demand was tun to I xpecteil
1 it moh.ihb would lie ion d.iv or mnro
iiefme the Merlin Government would re-
pit, ,vi, Lansing was n.l.l The Am-
liiiss,nl,,r explained that tin 1'ios.uletit'x
note aft. r it Is delivered to the For-
elgn ( UII. e pioli.tlilv would n.u bo given
otll.tal oiislilorntiou In the Imperial
liovetnment before next Tucstl.tv
lie lliritiir explained
Secretai'V
liusiii.t that ileitnaiiv conl.l riot he ex
pected to nuke an tmiueili.ite icply to
any question Involving sii.lt a cluing"
of polic) Tlie Get in in Foreign enlii.,
would lus'rt on lis light to -live though' -in!
coi.t.iib'iaii.iti to a sxibjc. t of th'fi im
poitani'e an. I would not agieo to lie hut
ile.l in ai living lit it.s derision, lie said,
While tin State 1 icpart oi.'nt w.ii net
ting its tlist information of German) s
unw lliniiiH..s io be I ut i 'cd vtord came
of the sinking of a, olid' vessel, pie
siimapllv b) ii siiliitiiir Details weir
lackliJt Srcietai) La sing had only
hriuilSfJl'b . V1" ofllcl.il r, porl nf an
Vin.'l.BnMrt.-iil I In. I tin N'orvvogUii
ship 'nljHrecklhii, bound from Galves
ton haiPTici'tt sunk four mllo.s off the
niouih of Hid Tagiis, No lives vvcio lost.
I Count von Uernsiorft remained In cous
I
