,v ?&
y t f ' &r
- ,. I'V."',
BW3
ftwpswifif
i-spW
f,f$P5
. H-
T
k
y
Weather forecast:
Probably Showers Tonight
(Pull Report on Faro Two.)
NTJMBEB 8877.
BLOCK PERSHING, CARRANZA ORDERS;
VILLA NOT DEAD, MEXICANS ADMIT
GERMAN EMBASSY IN
DELICATE POSITION,
OFFICIALS
Von Igel Papers -and Von der Goltz Confes
sion Raise New and Grave Diplomatic
Issues Renewed Demand Made on
State Department for Return of Papers.
Official Washington has come to the conclusion that
tne German embassy's position at this moment, following
developments of the past few days in the probing of bomb
plots and outrages, is most delicate.
Papers taken from the office of Wolf von Igel, con
fidential secretary of Captain von Papen, and himself ac
credited to the embassy, form the principal basis for this be
lief. The alleged confession of Horst von der Goltz in Lon
don, a copy of which is in Washington, forms another im
portant element.
The situation was considered by the Cabinet today. It
has already been considered by the Justice Department and
the State Department. How seriously the embassy itself
considers the seizures is shown in the eighth demand made
on the State Department today for the return to the em
bassy of the papers and all photographic evidence concern
ing them.
It is probable that the papers will be returned after
the State Department and the Department of Justice have
finished with them. A course considered and understood to
be practically decided on. is to insist that Count von Bern
Morff identify those papers which are embassy property.
If the embassy should refuse all papers involving crim
inal propaganda, this Government would be free to use
them without reservation.-
The von Igel papers, with the evidence obtained from
Horst von. der Goltz, are believed to show that Captain von
Papen and Captain Boy-Ed were not their own high court
in the United States. Attention was called to the emphasis
p'aced in the von der Goltz statement on the quashing by
von Bernstorff personally of the alleged plan to invade
Canada.
On the other hand the recall of Ambassador von Bern
storff by Germany as a rebuke to the United States is a new
and grave possibility, according to the German position.
AFFRONT PLACED ON EMBASSY.
The ambassador's position Is that an
affront has been placed upon the em
bassy by the seizure of papers and docu
ments by the arrest of Wolf von Igel,
an accredited attache of the embassy.
Berlin has been notified of the seiz
ures, but the German embassy Is pro
ceeding without waiting Instructions.
Publication of the signed confession
of Baron von der Goltz presages a nation-wide
Investigation of the activities
of the persons Implicated In the state
ment to the British authorities.
Delivery of the American demands
upon Germany by Ambassador Gerard
Is announced and the Imperial chan
cellor Is expected to carry them to the
Kaiser at the battle front Immediately.
Berlin Will Concede
Nothing More to U. S.
By CARL W.
(Copyright, 1016, by
(Copyrighted In
BERLIN. April 20 (via wireless to
Tuckerton, N. J.), April 21,-Germany
can go no further In her submarine con
cessions to the United Btates, Admiral
von Holtzondorff, chief of the German
admiralty staff, declared in an Inter
view with the United Press today.
"But, remember," said the German na
val head later, during the course of the
interview, "that we have no desire for a
break with the United Btates. That
would be Insanity. We shall not bring
It about, despite our desire to push vig
orously our submarine warfare.
"Wo. did not sink the Sussex," said
Admiral von Holtzondorff. "I am as
convinced of thut ns of anything which
has happened In this war. If you could
read the definite Instructions, tho exact
ordrs each submarine commander has,
you would understand that the torpe
doing of tho Sussex was Impossible.
"Many of our submarines havo re
turned from roundingup British vessels.
They sighted scores' of passenger ships
going between England and America,
at, not one of thasa was touched a
Utelfetogftm Wxic0
BELIEVEUHGNS
Secretary Lansing has replied to the
request of the German ambassador as
to the Intent of tho note aa to subma
rine activities.
To remove any posulbte doubt a
to Its meaning the German ambas
sador has been told that the United
Btates demands net a cessation of
submarine attacks, but a change In
"present methods" to brlnpr attack
In th Prltlsh war one under e
pome regulations as those In the
Mediterranean.
In an Interview given out today. Ad
miral von Holtiendorff announces that
there la nothing Germany con do to
meet American demands further than
has already been done. til made an
unqualified denial that the Sussex was
sunk by a German submarine.
ACKERMAN.
the United Press.)
Great Britain.)
though we know every one of them was
carrying war(munltlons for tho allies.
"We have definitely agreed to warn
the crews and passengers of passenger
liners. Wo have lived up to that prom
ise In every way, but we cannot be
asked to regard freight ships In the
name manner,
"I speak In straightforward manner.
We could have destroyed hundreds of
thousands of tons of enomv ships since
the beginning of the submarine war,
except for the promises wo gave the
United States, but we cannot go fur
ther. "Five months more will see what wa
can do to British shipping. The ring
around the British Isles will grow
tighter and tighter. Then we shall see
whether England shall still maintain
that uhe cunnnt make peace until Ger
many la destroyed.
iTho allies I'ould have hnd near-o Ions
ago, but they Mill cling to the Idee of
iitsrvlnc Germany to mihmisslon. The
longer they cling to the Idea of starv-
(Contlnued on Second Pact.)
WASHINGTON,
UTILITIES BOARD
Declares Company Never Before
Attacked Fitness of Com
mission's Expert.
DECLINED TO CO-OPERATE
"Since the beginning of the valuation
May 1. VU, the Washington Hallway
and Electric Company 'has persistently
declined to co-operate, thereby greatly
Increasing the difficulties and cott of
the work. Never before, however, has It
given aa a reaion for Its lack of coop
eration It dissatisfaction with Dr. "IS
W. Bemls, head of the valuation bu
reau." This waa the statement of officials of
tho Publta Utilities Commission today
in answer to criticisms of Dr. Bemls :
made by W. F. Ham, vice president of
the railway company, at the hearing on
the Falrchlld bill to consolidate the
Washington Railway and Electric Com
pany and the Potomac Electric Power
Company before tho House District
Committee yesterday.
lleplylng to the charge of Mr. Ham
that tho reputation of Dr. Bemls
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
FORDlfiOlS;
MAN DEFEATED
Sixty Per Cent of State Gives
Peace Advocate Three Thou
sand Over Cummins.
OMAHA. April 31. With returns
complete from approximately 60 per
cent of tho State and scattering re
turns from the remainder, It appears
that Henry Ford haa won the Repub
lican preferential vote for President
and Bryan has been dofeated as a
delegate-at-large to the National
Dcmocratlo convention.
The vote now stands:
Foid, H.780; Cummins, 11,900; Hughes,
whose name was written In, 7,33.
Cummins' friends still cling to the
hope that he -will overtake Ford when
more complete returns nro received
from tho vicinity of the homo of Sena
tor Xorrls, who backed the Iowan.
Four delegates at large are to be se
lected, er.d Bryan probably will get
slxt.. place. Prior to the primary. In
which he did not strongly urge his own
selection. Bryan said it necessary, he
would go to tho convention as a news
paper nun.
Bryan's brother Democratic candi
date for governor, on a dry platform,
has conceded his defeat. The vote
will stand about two to one In favor
of Keith Neville, the wet favorite
The 'dry, Republicans were more for
tunate, however, nominating their
candidate. Juduro Sutton, by a safe
vote over Miles, wet.
The Jesuits mean a square away
flght over the liquor Issuo this fall,
with both Democratic and Republican
wets (.entering1 on Neville. A prolilU
tlon amundment will bo voted upon
also lr. the November election.
Chinda Protests
Immigration Bill
Japanese Ambassador Registers
Remonstrance) Personally
With President.
Htrong protest was lodged personally
with President Wilson today by Vis
count Chinda, the Japanese ambassaodr,
against the Immigration bill pending In
Congress.
The ambassador called at the White
House at 10 o'clock this morning and
was closeted with the Chief Executive
for about twenty minutes.
Although the ambassador did not
present any written communication
from his government, he renewed tho
protests which wero lodged by his gov
ernment at the time the bill was pend
ing last year.
Karjler this week the ambassador
conferred with Secretary of State Lan
sing about the same matter.
Of particular offense to the Japanese
Government la the fact that the bill as
it stands places citizens of Japan In
the sumo category with Hindus, and,
furthermore, attempts to record In print
the verbal "gentlemen's agreement" en
tered Into In the latter part of the
Hoosevolt administration, whereby not
more than a certain number of Jap
anese would seek entry Into the United
States In nn single year.
Picturesque Great Falls, Va., Easter
Sunday Family Outing, 3Bo n. T, Cars
leave stsin ai sis. (Aqueauct uriace).
lAUTU
DEFENDS
BIB
WA
FRIDAY EVENING,
D. C. Valuation Expert
Who Is Now Under Fire
PLEAD FOR BILL OF
I
iT
J4.
Supporters of Smith Measure
Tell Senate Committee It
Would Aid Poor Here.
Supporters of the Smith bill, which
would allow lenders of money to charge
3 per cent a month In the District, hnd
a hearing before the Senate District
Committee today.
That loan sharks located across the
Potomao are charging poor people In
terest that reaches as high as 1S8 per
cent a year, was alleged by a citizens
committee that appeared In behalf of
the Smith measure.
It was declared tho present law allow
ing a charge of only ono per cent a
month hnd drlvon lenders out of 'Wash
ington nnd that they hnd gone outside
the bounds of the District where they
charged from 3 per cent a month up
ward. William II. Baldwin, as chairman of
the citizens' committee, was tho chief
speaker. Othors who spoko for the
m...iifn tvArn tTnrmor Ambassador
Henry White, Mrs. Archibald Hopkins,
near Admiral and'Mrs. Walnwrlght, and ,
Evan Tucker.
Waltor . Ufford, of the Associated
Charities, wan present as whs Dr.
Gcorgo M. Kober and George Wilson,
of the Honrd of Charlllm.
The only Interest tho witnesses
had, they said, was to aid tho needy
borrowers of the District. They said
the m-otl of legislation was snrlous.
Mr. Baldwin, after saylns the bill
hud the IndorKcment of the Hoard of
Trade, the Chamber of Comrrorco.
the DlHtrlct, Commissioners, and va
rious orKannalions, said he knew of
no onn against tho legislation hut
lenders who were Retting "noro than
j rir cent a month.
That the Virginia law allows much
more than 2 per cent a month for
pawnbrokers nnd lenders, was stated by
Mr. Baldwin.
He declared that when the crusade
against loan sharks was begun here, the
rate was ln many cases 470 a year.
Now tho loan sharks havo been driven
out. Ho said one pawnbroker had an
office hero, but did business In Virginia
at 3 per cent a month. Ho said there
were three, concerns doing such a busi
ness nnd getting as high as IKS por
cent. In one case, ha said, tho rato was
even 365 per cent.
Mr. naldwln said the lenders would
do business In tho District at 2 per
cent a month.
Session Will Last
Till Fall, Says Kern
Senator Kern. Democratic leader of
the Senate prcdlctcn today that Con
Congress, far from being able to ad
journ for the June conventions, would
scarcely be through by September.
tit announced there Is no Intention
;mong Democratic leaders to abandon
rvny legislation. All major matters will
to fought through to a finish, ho said.
ThlH piogram Is contradictory to ono
which had generally been understood to
be favored by the President.
The legislation which will take a great
deal of time. It Is expected, Includes
tho navy bill, all largo appropriation
bills, nil revenue bills, ship purchaso
bill, rural credits, immigration, child
labor and other measures.
Prolonged tights perhaps filibusters
are practically certainties In the ship
purchase and child labor bills.
It urn I credits will be the next legisla
tion to be considered by the Senate.
A largo amount of conservation legis
lationIncluding bills for wator power,
mining and grazing lands still In public
domain also will be considered, but
probsbly not enacted' Into law because
of differences between the two houses.
' Picturesque Great Falls, Va., Easter
I Sunday 'Family Outing, 35o it. T. Cars
I leave 3tin & m sts. (Aqueduct Bridge).
m. ?Fm?2ffi,,ffiLXt?ifiR
DR. E. W. BEMIS.
ER
N
LOAN
APRIL 21, 1010.
UN ON STAT ON MEN
DEMANDCMANGESIN
HOURS
Will "Take Decisive Action"
Unless New Schedule is Con
sidered By Officials.
NOW UP TO SUPT. KEPPEL
Unionized employes of tho Washing
ton Terminal Company will hbld a meet
ing In Masonic Temple, Eighth and F
streets northeast, tomorrow night to
take action on the refusal of the com
pany to discuss proposed changes In
hours and wages. The night employes
of tho company will hold a similar
meeting Monday afternoon.
Gcorgo A, Nolle, vice president of the
Tlrotherhond of Hnllwav Cnr Men, who
has been In Washington three months
conferring with the Terminal Company's
employes, will preside nt the meetings
and address the unionists.
The new schedule of hours anl wages
wa submitted to Superintendent Keppel,
of the Union Station, on April 7. A
committee was appointed by Pride of
Potomac Lodge 313, the local division of
the Brotherhood of Cnr Men. to confer
with Superintendent Keppel and other
officials of tho company on the demands
for snorter hours and moro pny.
Vice President Nolto said today that
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
FRENllAi N ON
E
German Attack Repulsed and
Advances Made Northeast
Of Verdun.
PAIU8, April 21. Following heavy ar
tillery preparation, the Germans last
night lounched a powerful attack on a
front of moro than a mllo against
French positions northeast of Verdun.
Tho ' assault was directed against
French lines between Thlaumont and
tho small lake near Vatix.
South of Do.naumont fort and north of
this small lake, the Germans succeeded
In entering French linos, but they wero
lator repulsed by a French counter-attack,
tho war office announces.
Tho French captured n number of
prisoners nnd two quick-firers in suc
romiful counter-attack.
Not onlv wero tho Germans repulsed
with heavy losses In this attack, but
tho French advanced their lines on both
sides of tho Meusp, In a renewal of the
fighting around Verdun.
On tho wesi nanK, in mo region oi
Dead Man's Hill, tho French followed
up their successes by capturing a trench
on the edge of Cnurotte wood, capturing
four Gormnn officers and 160 men.
On tho enst bank of the Meuse. tho
French mndo progress south of Hnud
domont. rescuing several wounded
French soldiers and capturing twenty
Germans.
Russ Continue to Land
In France; Marseilles Gay
PAIUB, April 21. Russian troops,
disembarking at Marseilles probably
will not bo seen In action on tho
western front before another fort
night. It was stated hero today. For
the present iney pronnmy win re
main In southern France.
The landing of troops continued to
day, according to Marseilles dis
patches, and the city was gay with
rtusslan colors. Several Russian of
ficers arrived In Pnrls tyday and ar'
rangements are being made for re
ceptions in their honor.
ATHENS, April 21.-German filers
bombarded a British camp at Tenedos
Wednesday, causing several casualties.
accordivg to advices received here to
day.
Wind and Water
Devastate Town
Houses Blown Down and Two
Steamboats Sunk in
Mississippi.
DUnUYS, Miss., April 21. A dozen
houses were wrecked nnd two steam
boats sunk by n tornado hero early to
day, after a cloudburst filled the street
with ten feet of water.
A report from Mobile, AIn,, enld one
woman was killed nnd another Injured
thcro when a heavy wind destroyed
their home.
KANSAS CITY. Mo.. April 21. With
dcflnlto Information still lacking today
from Stover, Mo., and Bourbon county,
Kan. both hard hit by Wednesday's
night storm, It Is fenrod-tlib death toll
may reach moro than a score. Property
damage la estimated nt closo to (1,003,000.
Earttcr Sunday Excursion, $1 R. T.
llluomont; Vh Iiluo Itldgo Mtns. W. A
O. D. By. Klcctrlo Trains from 36th 4
U sts. N. W. vldvt.
WA
AND
BOH
MEUS
BANKS
PERSHING'S RETREAT
AFTER PARRAL RIOT
AVERTED
De Facto Commander Instructed To Attack
American Soldiers If They Attempted To
Advance Farther Toward South; Body
Dug Up Not That of Bandit. .
An investigation of alleged German connection
with the Villa raid at Columbus is awaiting the return
of the American expedition from Mexico, it was learned
on high authority today.
SAN ANTONIO, April 21. General Pershing with-d-ew
his advanced detachments to save them from threat
ened general attack, according to staff officers at Qeneral
Funston's headquarters today.
Pershing's latest advices have not entirely been given
out, but they are said to contain details of the attitude shown
by Carranzista troops toward the American expedition
chasing Villa.
Funston's staff officers having prepared a report for
Chief of Staff Scott, would not reveal the exact nature of
the incidents on which their declaration was based.
But they agreed the Americans fell back from the Par
ral region only when a plan to wipe them out became evi
dent. The expedition is practically at a standstill
BODY OF VILLA NOT FOUND.
CHIHUAHUA, Mex., April 21. -The body supposed
to be that of Villa and exhumed by Mexicans has been found
to be that of another man.
American troops have been ordered not to proceed
south to Parral in continuing their hunt for the bandit
leader.
These admissions were made today by Gen. Luis Gut
ierrez, Carranzista military commander of Chihuahua.
Declaring that Villa's body had not been found, but
that the body taken from a lonely mountain grave was a
member of the Villa band, Gutierrez announced that he did
nut know whether Villa was dead or alive, but believed him
unwounded.
At the same time he declared Maj. Jose de la Luz Her
rera, of Parral, who figured in the ambush of American
troops there, had been instructed definitely to inform the
American commanders not to advance beyond Parral in
their search for Villa.
EARLY WITHDRAWAL ANNOUNCED.
Chihuahua newspapers today announced the early re
tirement of the American forces. El Democrata printed a
Washington dispatch that the United States has declared
war on Germany and would require the use of all forces to
fight the Germans.
Another article stated that Lansing was (Studying the
plans for an early withdrawal of the expedition and gave
General Carranza credit for halting the American advance
through Mexico.
The concentration of Carranza troops at and south of
Parral is apparently to oppose further advance of the United
States forces.
Gen. Luis Herrera, whose brother-in-law, Colonel
Crozco, was killed by American troops in the Parral fight,
has gone to Parral. Two thousand troops of the Morelos
and Juarez brigades have re-enforced the garrison there.
One thousand United States, cavalrymen under
Colonels Brown and Allen and Major Tompkins, are re
ported concentrated at Santa Cruz de Viesca, ten miles north
of Parral.
General Gutierrez is doing his utmost to prevent
strained relations between the Carranza forces, and the
merican troops, but is opposed by the Herrera element
and the sentiment of the populace.
Gutierrez has appointed officers to accompany the
American newspapermen and has granted ihem every pro-
home
EDITION
PRICE ONE CENT.
MASSACRE
Ht
