Official
newspaper of
Olympia
vnt.. LVI. NO, 5.
Relations With Germany Are Critical
PARTY SESSIONS TO
BE HELD SATURDAY
DEMOCRATS CONVENE HERE,
WHILE THE REPUBLICANS
GATHER IN TENINO.
With the Democratic county con
vention, in the nature of a mass
meeting, to be held in the Eagles'
hall in this city at 11 o'clock Satur
day morning, and the Republican
convention, to which some 300 del
egates were elected In precinct cau
cuses throughout the county Wed
nesday, slated for Tenino the same
day, local politics have been much
livelier this week than at any time
since the campaign two years ago.
Sixteen delegates to the Demo
cratic state convention in North
Yakima early next month will be
named Saturday. They are to be
chosen at large, according to the
rule adopted by the county central
committee recently. This la the
principal buaineaa before the con
vention, the official call for which,
issued by Chairman R. M. Fuller
and attested by Secretary W. A. Per
kina, reads as follows:
"A convention of the Democrata of
Thurston county, Waah., la hereby
called to meet at Eagles' hall, Third
and Washington atreeta, in the city
of Olympia, Saturday, April 22, 1916,
at 11 o'clock a. m., for the purpoae
of aelectlng alxteen delegates to rep
resent Thuraton county at the Dem
ocratic atate convention to be held
at North Yakima on the 2nd day of
May, and for the tranaaction of such
other buaineaa aa may properly come
before the convention."
No social features will be held in
connection with the convention,
though after ita adjournment the
Democrats preßent may gather at
aome local restaurant for an infor
mal luncheon, at which talks
may be given. .
The aesaion of the Republican
convention at Tenino Saturday will
be the flrat time that such a meeting
has been held outside Olympia. At
it the delegates to the Republican
state convention at North Yakima
May 6 will be chosen and various
other matters disposed of.
CITY LOSES DLL MOUND
IN SOUS OVER MOTOR
May Appeal Cane to Compel Old Wa
ter Company to Pay for Kquip-
Turned down on all sides by the
superior court In its efforts to rec
ompense Itself for the $360 it has
to pay the Weßtinghouse Electric
company for the motor at the munic
ipal waterworks pumping station,
the city is now considering the ad
visability of appealing to the state
supreme court its suit to recover
this amount from the Washington
Public Service company.
The city first sought to make the
Westinghouse company a party to
the original condemnation suit,
which, If successful, would have
produced payment for the motor out
of the money paid in under the
court decision. Failing in that, it
that, It tried to compel C. J. Lord,
receiver for the old company, to pay
for It, but again failed; and in the
meantime it had sought to retain in
Its possession some SSOO it owed the
old water company, but the court
said it could not do so.
The city's contention throughout
was that the motor was Included In
the Inventory of the company's as-j
sets, upon which the decision in the
condemnation auit was based, and
that therefore it had already paid
for the motor. The Westinghouse
company, however, showed that
there was filed of record at the aud
itor's office an unsatisfied condition
al bill of sale, showing that the old
company had not owned the motor
and so could not sell it; the receiver
contended that the afTalr did not
concern his management of the con
cern.
The council Tuesday night debated
TRY OLYMPIA MERCHANTS FIRST
Wastimoton Mantart
POWER FIRM BUCKS AND
CITY MAY LOSE SERVICE
Required to Pay Water Deposit, Com
pany Demands Like Payment,
but Is Denied.
The city of Olympia will not have
eltctric lights for the city hall or
power with which to operate the mu
nicipal waterworks pumping plant
unless it pays the Olympia Light &
Power company a deposit of $250 or
else does not require a deposit of $6
or $7 from the company for its water
bill, according to Manager L. B.
Faulkner.
' The company's demand for a de
posit was presented to the council
Tuesday night and was disallowed
on motion of Councilman Yauger.
The company does not require such
a deposit from all its Customers, us
ing its discretion in that respect, but
Manager Faulkner explained to the
city officials that inasmuch as the
city had required a deposit from his
company for its water bill, the com
pany would do the same thing with
the city on its light and power bus
iness. The street lighting system is
not Involved, as that is handled un
der a contract which specifies when
and how payments shall be made.
There has been considerable oppo
sition to the city's requirement that
water users having meters must pay
a deposit of the estimated amount
of their monthly bill, and several
refused to do so. "If the city
shuts off our water, we will shut off
its light," was the way Manager
Faulkner stated the situation from
the company's standpoint.
GMNO MOUND GETS
THE HlflC IIIBIM
STATE BOARD SETTLES CONTRO
VERSY OVER TENINO-CEN
TRALIA ROUTE.
With State Highway Commissioner
James Allen favoring the Bucoda
route because it is three miles short
er, the state highway board Monday
established the road from Tenino
through Grand Mound to Centralia
as the official route of the Pacific
highway between Tenino and Cen
tralia, thus ending a controversy that
has been waged for some years.
When the Pacific highway was
originally laid out, the route between
Olympia and Centralia followed what
is known as the middle roqd, not
touching Tenino but going via Grand
Mound; but when W. Dean Hays of
Tenino represented this county in the
lower house of the legislature, he
succeeded in changing the route so
that it would pass through Tenino,
though its location between that city
and Centralia was left unsettled.
The fact that two bad railroad
crossings would have to be eliminated
if the Bucoda road were chosen was
given as the principal reason for the
designation of the Grand Mound road
as the official route, by three of the
four members of the highway board.
The Grand Mound route would be
cheaper, it was said, not only for this
reason but also because Lewis county
has put in a hard surface pavement
up to the Thurston county line, and
the entire road Is practically com
pleted, with the exception of "top
ping."
The designation of the route of the
Pacific highway was made at the re
quest of the local county commis
sioners, so that they may proceed
| with construction work.
After a visit with her sister, Mrs.
H. T. Graves, Mrs. L. A. Dobbin left
Tuesday for her home at Medicine
! Hat, Alberta.
whether to appeal the three cases,
| but finally ordered the payment of
! |360 to the Westinghouse company
and of SSOO due the old water com
pany, S2OO of which had been gar
.! nisheed by James Martin. The ques
tion of appealing the other suit was
referred to the Judiciary committee
I and the city attorney.
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860. OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916
"Hew to the Line, Let the Chips Fall Where they May."
SUBMARINEWARFARE MUST STQP.SAYS PRESIDENT
GERMANY'S REFUSAL TO COMPLY WILL RESULT IN SEVER
ANCE OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS, WILSON DECLARES
IN FINAL WARNING —PROMISES AND ASSURANCES
WANTONLY VIOLATED, NOTE DECLARES—CONGRESS
HEARB PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT OF SITUATION AND
GENERALLY APPROVES POLICY.
WILSON'S ULTIMATUM TO GERMANY.
If it is still the purpose of the Iniperial government to prose
cute relentless and indiscriminate lArfare against vessels of all
commerce by the use of submarin&writhout regard to what the
government of the United States mist consider the sacred and
indisputable rules of international law and the universally recog
nized dictates of humanity, the government of the United States
is at last forced to the conclusion that there is but one course it
can pursue.. Unless the Imperial government should now imme
diately declare and effect an abandonment of its present methods
of submarine warfare against passenger and freight-carrying ves
sels, the government of the, United States can have no choice but
to sever diplomatic relations with the German empire altogether.
This action the government of the United States contemplates
with the greatest reluctance, but feels constrained to take in
behalf of humanity and the righto of neutral nations.
Outcome Depends Upon Germany.
Whether the friendly relations that have existed for years be
tween the United States and Germany shall be continued or shall be
broken, with war as the possible result, depends now upon the Ger
man empire, President Wilson having dispatched to that nation
Tuesday night an emphatic note stating that unless Germany's pres
ent methods of submarine warfare are discontinued immediately, the
United States will be compelled to sever diplomatic relations "in
behalf of humanity and the rights of neutral nations."
The text of the note and the president's reasons for its trans
mittal were presented by him to a joint session of congress Wednes
day afternoon, one of the momentour sessions in the recent history
of that body. Congress received the president's declaration of his
course with mixed evidences of eoneepi and approbation- Most of
the leaders, Democrat and Republican, thought the president could
hardly have done less, and some expressed the opinion that his action
would not lead to war. Republican Leader Mann, alone of all the
opposition leaders, openly attacked the president for his stand. He
characterized it as a political play.
Diplomatic history records but one instance where a breaking
of relations between two first class powers had not eventually
brought war—that which now exists between Germany and Italy.
The president considers that the next step depends solely upon Ger
many, and that three or four days constitute a reasonable time for
a reply.
Other Neutrals Receive Note.
Copies of the American note were sent to the national capital
representatives of neutral nations on the assumption that they are as
much interested as the United States in the protection of neutral
lights. The document was not given to any of the belligerent diplo
mats, as the controversy is regarded as being solely between the
I'nited States and Germany.
Count von Bernstorff already has reiterated to Secretary Lansing
that under no circumstances will Germany give up the submarine as
a weapon of warfare, because she contends it is retaliation for Great
Britain's food blockade. The ambassador has declared, however,
that his government will attempt to conduct submarine operations
within the law of nations.
This the United States is willing to discuss after Germany has
abandoned her present methods —not before.
The crisis now resolves itself into the waiting stage during which
Germany will have opportunity to accede to the American demands.
Before another week begins, settlement of the long standing issue
either will be assured or Count von Bernstorff probably will have his
passports and Ambassador Gerard will be leaving Berlin.
Continued on Page Six
DOOTSEN PLEADS GUILTY.
Bucoda Man Fined 975 for Selling
"BOOM" Illegally.
Joe Dootsen, whose home, pool
room and an abandoned building at
Bucoda were raided by Prosecuting
Attorney Geo. P. Tantis, Deputy
Sheriff Jack Gifford and Chief of
Police Caton Sunday afternoon, vol
unteered to plead guilty when con
fronted with a superior court war
rant by Prosecuting Attorney Yantis
Wednesday afternoon, and was taken
before Justice of the Peace Nichols
at Bucoda and fined $75 and costs
for selling whisky in violation of the
prohibition law.
The raid Sunday followed several
complaints that considerable "booze"
was being sold around Bucoda. The
officers reached there about 4 o'clock
in the afternoon and raided Doot
sen's properties, finding large quan
tities of booze in each of the three
buildings, most of it In Dootsen's
home, and some on his person. There
was about five gallons found alto
gether.
FORM S. A. R. CHAPTER.
General Stevens Heads New Society
Organized Wednesday Night.
Thirty men of this city attended
the meeting Wednesday night at the
homo of J. N. Stanford, when Cap
tain Robert Gray Chapter No. 6, Sons
of the American Revolution, was or
ganized here with the assistance of
O. J. C. Sutton, state president, and
Taul B. Phillips, state secretary.
General Hazard Stevens was elect
ed president, C. B. Jaynes vice presi
dent, J. M. Hitt secretary and his
torian, E. B. Spring treasurer, Rev.
C. S. Morrison chaplain, and C. B.
Mann and I. M. Howell board of
managers. Talks were made by the
visiting state officers and several
local members, and Surveyor General
E. A. FitzHenry read a paper on the
battle of Lexington.
Prank Stocking, son of County
Treasurer and Mra. Fred W. Stocking,
is now employed as a draftsman for
the telephone company in Seattle.
He was employed in the state land
office until recently.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
M'INNESS TO TALK TO
DAIRYMEN ON SATURDAY
Organizer for State Association to
Tell Benefits of Organization.
Donald Mclnness, organizer of
county dairymen's associations for
the State Dairymen's association un
der the new plan of operation adopt
ed by that organizaton at its last
meeting, will deliver an address on
the uses and benefits of such associa
tions, at the meeting of the Thurston
County Dairymen's association and
the newly-organized cow-testing as
sociation at the Chamber of Com
merce at 1 o'clock Saturday after
noon.
O. E. Oibson, representing the fed
eral department of agriculture, may
also attend the meeting, 'which Pres
ident L. R. Campbell urges "every
farmer who is interested in dairy
ing" to attend. Mr. Oibson has been
expected to return to the county for
the last two weeks, to complete the
organization of teh cow-testing as
sociation.
The suggestion that the local Dai
rymen's association affiliate with the
state organization will be discussed
and perhaps acted upon at this meet
ing, and Mr. Mclnness may also
spend several days in .this vicinity
interesting farmers in tbese organ
izations. Details of the organisa
tion of the cow-testing association
are also to be worked out.
TO FORM BRANCH OF
NONPARTISAN LEAGUE
"BOB" BRIDGES OF SEATTLE TO
ADDRESS MEETING NEXT
THURSDAY NIGHT.
ROBERT BRIDGES
Candidate for Democratic Nomination
for United States Senator, Who
Will Speak Here Next Thursday.
A public meeting to organise a
Thurston county branch of the Non
partisan League of Washington will
be held in the Y. M. C. A., at 8
o'clock next Thursday evening, April
27 th.
Robert Bridges, a former resident
of Olympia when he was state land
commissioner in the Rogerß admin
istration, will be the principal speak
er. "Bob" Bridges, as he is known
in King county, Is president of the
Port of Seattle commission and is
now seeking the Democratic nomina
tion for United States senator.
The question of nonpartisanship
has been given considerable attention
recently, since the announcement has
been made that Governor Hiram
Johnson of California has accepted
the invitation of the League to spend
a week in Washington this summer,
speaking in the larger cities on that
subject. It has also been indorsed
by several county conventions of
Democrats and Progressives, and by
Governor Ernest Lister.
The meeting is free and the public
Is Invited.
WHOLE NUMBER 2904
GRUNGE DISCUSSES
TOWNSHIP STSIEK
MAY ADVOCATE RK-ORGANIZA
TION* OP COUNTY ON THIS
BASIS THIS YEAR.
Organization of Thurston county
on the township basis, as has been
agitated here for some years, was
again discussed at the April meet
ing of the Thurston County Pomona
Orange at the Chambers' Prairie
Grange Hall last Tuesday, and
though no definite action was taken,
the proposal is said to be generally
favored.
Four years ago the change was ad
vocated and again two years ago,
the proponents of the plan, leading
members of the Pomona Grange, go
ing so far as to file the needed peti
tions with the county commission
era, containing the required number
of signatures to place the question
on the ballot. Somebody got mixed
on the dates, however, and on the
advice of the then prosecuting attor
ney the commissioners refused to
act on the petitions, though this
question was a close one.
To Decide Next Month.
What action the Pomona Grange
will take on the proposition this
year will be decided at its May meet
ing, which is to be held at the Bkook
umchuck hall, where the Grangers
intended to go last February when
hall there was dedicated,
bat were prevented on account of
the severe weather and the condi
tion of the roads. The June meet
ing Is to be held at Rochester.
[. The Alert, Boulevard, Brighton
Park, Chambers' Prairie, McLane,
Pleasant Olade, South Bay and Spnr
geon Creek Granges were represent
ed at thi* week's meeting, at which
the usual good dinner was served
and an interesting program was giv
en during the lecturer's hour.
The Grange authorised the ap
pointment of a committee of two to
confer with the Olympia Trades
Council with reference to the Initia
tive campaign and other matters, and
elected Travis Ayer delegate to the
State Grange meeting In Burlington
in June, and F. A. Warner as alter
nate. A report with reference to the
second annual Thurston County Fair
was submitted by Pomona Master L.
L. Snow on behalf of the executive
committee, stating that progress is
being made in the planf for this
year's exhibit
Three candidates from Alert
Grange. Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Myers
aad Miss Nellie Christensen, were
' initiated.
INJURED BY RUNAWAY
H. W. Larimer Knocked CicaMdow
When THUD Breaks LOOM.
Painfully bruised and knocked un
conscious temporarily when he was
thrown from his wagon in a runa
way on Fifth street Wednesday noon.
Harry W. Lorimer, a farmer, for
merly driver of the Mitchell hotel
bus, was able to return to his home
Wednesday evening, after receiving
treatment at St. Peter's hospital dur
ing the afternoon. He was attended
by Dr. P. A. Longaker.
The horses were frightened when
the doubletree on the wagon came
loose, and they ran west on Fifth
from Main until they collided with
the rig of C. M. Mathews, a mall car
rier, when the horses broke loose
from the wagon. Lorimer clung to
i the lines and was pulled over the
dashboard, striking the pavement on
| his head. He was knocked uncon
scious and for a time it was thought
he was internally injured. The
horses were caught on Columbia
street.
Lorimer's son was in the wagon
| with him but was uninjured. Mr.
; Mathews also escaped injury, though
i his horse was hurt.
————
i Tuesday, May 16, was designated
Iby Governor Lister thiß week as
Good Roads' day.
Published
Continuously
For 55 Years
