THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC
AN
U8n7ENX PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TVYENTY-SIXTII YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, APRIL 21, 1916
12 PAGES
.VOL. XXVI., NO. 337
Not To Tolerate Inhuman
Sinking Of Another Ship.
By German Submarines
II KILLED
us moors
lllllifii TO I
WESTERN IE
Arrival of Russian Force
Brings Jov to Entente
Allies Who Believe
Change in Situation Will
Develop Shortly
SOLDIERS CHOSEN
FROM BRAVEST
CHIEF OBJECT 0 CONCERN NOW
ISPOSSiBIUTY Of ATM ON
VESSEL CARRYING IE
Coincidental With Tills An
nouncenient Comes Word
G e r ni a n s Withdrawing
Forces From Other Forts
to Aid Verdun Fighting
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The arrival in France of a large
number of Russian troops to reinforce
the western battle line has brought
great joy to the entente allied coun
tries, where it is hoped that with them
lighting shoulder to shoulder at differ
ent points with the British, French
end Belgians, a material change in the
situation may shortly develop. ,
How many Russians have oeen sent
ncros seas by Emperor Nicholas is
not known, but what is declared as a
"great flotilla of transports" arrived
In the harbor of Marseilles, and almost
immediately afterward landed the
forces amid the cheering of the popu
l.tce and tl.e French troops gathered 1
nt the Quay to greet them and with
the roars of salutes.
General Joffre, the French oom
l.tunder in chief, welcoming the Rus
Flans in an order-of-the-day. said they
were "soldiers chosen from the bravest
in the Russian army and commanded
officers of the highest renown."
Coincidental with the arrival of the
Russian comes the statement from
Paiip that the Germans, owing to the
stroni; resistance of the French at
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHING' TON, April 20. While the United States
waits for Germany to reply to the note demanding the im
mediate abandonment of present methods of conducting
submarine warfare, one of the chief sources of concern here
is the possibility of an attack on a peaceful ship, carrying
Americans, before the Berlin government has determined
upon its course. In such event, it is admitted that an im
mediate rupture could be prevented only by proof thai
Germany has been unable to effect communication with
her submarine commanders.
In explaining the demand of the United States todav
officers said that while abandonment of the present illegal
methods at once was essential to continuance ot diplomat!
relations, the United States might agree to German sub
marines operating under the strict restrictions of cruiser
warfare. It was emphaticallv reiterated, however, thar a
discussion of that phase will not be entered into until the
present campaign is brought to a stop. The United States
stands firm in its determination not to tolerate the unlaw
ful and inhuman sinking of another ship.
Cruiser warfare such as would be re
garded as legal by the American gov- make to his own government for its
ernment would make imperative tee guidance in framing reply to the Ameri-
WHEN TRAIN
STRIKES AUTO
Motor Car Stalls on Kendall
Crossing, Five Miles East
of Phoenix and Mrs. Grey
Butler of Tempo Killed in
Crash
DIPLOMATIC NEGOTIATIONS
AND PURSUIT OF VILLA ARE
HALTED AS PROBE GOES ON
HUSBANDS OF TWO
WOMEN SAW IT ALL
Little Madge Butler, Aged
Three Has Fractured
Skull; Mrs. Harrv Jones
Broken Hip: All Are
Rushed to Phoenix
I THE DEAD
MRS. BREY BUTLER, 612 Maple
avenue. Tempe. j
I THE INJURED j
I MADGE BUTLER, aged 3,
child of Mra. Butler. Skull frac-
j tured. j
' MRS. HARRY JONES, hip
I broken. i
.. n
SCOTT. TO BORDER AND
PURSUIT IS HALTED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire war department another long report
SAX ANTONIO, Tex., April 30. from General I'er.shing on general
While Major General Hugh L. Scott, ' conditions in that part of the coun-
chief of staff is hurrying to the border try through which his troops had
as personal envoy of Secretary of moved. This and other reports have
War Baker, General Pershing is hold- been sent to Washington as soon as
ing his forces in Mexico in what , received and army officers here de
practically is a defensive position. I clare that Secretary Baker is well
No developments of great import- informed on the developments about
ance were told of in reports received Parral and other places where the
today at General Funston's headiuar-: troops have gone, and on the rela
ters and it was evident that the pur-:tions that exist between them and the
suit of Villa had been halted. I'nof-' Mexicans both civilian and military,
ficial reports were that Villa had I General Funston did not make pub
made his way south into Dmango, lie the facts contained in General
although official Mexican advices con-' Pershing's report received today other
tinued to indicate that officials at than to say that it pictured a state
the war department in Mexico City of frightful destitution and reflected
vet gave some credence to the story the apathy of the poor toward the
that the bandit chieftain had died of American forces.
his wounds at some point south of! The attitude of the government
Cusihuiriuchic. (forces was described as lacking in
General Funston forwarded to the friendliness and cooperation.
President Wilson Will Treat
With Carrauza No Longer
Until Receives Advices of
Military Problems U. S.
Troops Encountered
WANT INFORMATION
FROM GEN. FUNSTON
Reports Received Recently
Tell of Increased, Rather
Than Lessened Difficul
ties Surrounding Expeditionary-
Force
exercise of the right of vessel search
and living that the passengers and
crews are accorded a degree of safety
j euraiunvu nudiuttie. uie Mine piaeuig
or passengers ami crews in small ooats
lar from land and in dangerous seas
wculd not meet the requirements.
The Mediterranean plan of warfare
as announced in the German memor
andum on January 7, has not worked
satisfactorily. It is held that in man'
Instance submarine commanders oper
ating in the Mediterranean have dis
regarded the understanding in letter
and in spirit Count von Bernstorff
the Germ n ambassador, is under
stood to have suggested to hi:i gov-
Alltmotit h'.t it iusll. a ntnr si,.l
Afrt,iri o fa . I I. it 1 n o 1 . l-i.il 1 -1 fi ' "
. I . . . ' , c , Uon applying to all submarine der
ations; similar to that covering the
campaign In the Mediterranean.
rlie ambassador called at the state
fr-im their fronts in Russian, Serbia
und Macedonia, and throwing them In- I
to this hotlv contested theater.
Here, the French, according to the
latest official communication have de
livered an attack near I.e Mort Homme,
northwest of Verdun, and succeeded In
driving the Germans out of portions
of a trench previously captured by
l hem. The Germans admit the entry
liy the French of German trenches in
the Cailette woods west of Vaux, after
a heavy French attack, but say that
otherwise the attack was repulsed with
lienvy losses.
Around Vpres the Germans according
o Berlin attacked and occupied 600
nicters of Rritish positions. The Bri
tish official report concedes a Ger
mun gain here, but says that except
for two craters and one trench near!
Kt. F.loi and on the Ypres-I.angemarck
, road the Germans were expelled from
:ill the positions they captured.
In Asiatic Turkey the Russian are
giving the Turks no rest. They now
h-jve dit lodged them from mountain
I a; sea south of Bitlis and pushed for
ward their forces toward Sghcrt. which
lies !0 miles east of Diarbkr. their ob
jedive in the operation which geeks
to cut off communication between the
noilhern and southern Turkish armies.
(Continued on Page Two)
department today and had a twenty
live minute talk with Secretary Lan
sing. Mr. Lansing listened witli much
interest lo the suggestions made by
Count von Bernstorff which he under
stood the ambassador was ready to
can note. The secretary however, w aj
not disposed to accept the views ex
pressed by I he ambassador. He wao
described authoritatively as being in
clined to regard them as the ambassa
dor's own opinions and informative of
the latler's desire to prevent a brea
between his country and the United
States. The president having laid
town the condition !iyt there must le
an abandonment of the submarine
methods. Secretary I-ansing takes the
view that there must be a direct and
formal response from the German gov
ernment itself lefore there can be a
discussion of the various phases of the
subject or of any alternallve proposi
tions, si.ort of absolute compliance with
the American demands.
As a result of his conference. Count
von Bernstorff sent another communi
cation to his government this evening.
It was made clear at the German era
I assy later that the ambassador did
not ex,.eet to call upon Secretary
Lansing again until after his govern-
(Continued cn Page Three)
BRYAN ON HAND TO AID
IN PREVENTING WAR
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire
WASHINGTON, April 20. William J.
Bryan, former secretary of state, who
resigned because he thought the presi
dent's policy in the Lusitania case was
leading to war, came to Washington
today. Representatives Bailey of Penn
sylvania and Callawoy of Texas, met
him at the station and had luncheon
with him. He did not disclose his
plans, but said he had come to render
any aid possible to prevent trouble be
tween the United States and Germany.
"I was on my way to New York to
deliver an address," he said, "when the
news reached me that a crisis in the
WILL NOT RELEASE VON IGEL
. nob civr IIP m? mm
I1UIIUIIUUI 1 1 1 u I 111 LIIU
tr'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, April 20. Notwith
standing the German ambassador's de
mands for the release of Wolfe von
lxel, and the return of papers seized at
the time of his arrest in the former
office here of Captain Franz von Papen,
recalled German military attache,
Vnited States Attorney H. Snonden
Marshall reiterated tonight his deter
mination to retain not only Von Igel,
but the documents.
Although Mr. Marshall refused to re
veal the basis for his firm stand, it
was learned from other federal officers '
that he was fully prepared to furnish
the state department with evidence to
prove that the lease for the Von Papen
offices, the point uxm which the entire
controversy hinges, was drawn In the
name of Von Igel.
Von Igel, the United Slates attor
ney contends, was not a member of Am
bassador Bernstorffs official family
until December, 11)1 5, and- he doubts
If he can be classified as a member
even after that period. The lease for
the office, federal authorities state, was
made out by Von Igel during the time
that he had no official connection with
the German embassy.
which resulted in the returning of In
dictments against Captain von Papen,
Von Igel and three others on the charge
of conspiracy to blow up the Welland
canal.
Mr. Marshall denied officially that
the confiscated papers had disclosed
new plots or the existence of a Ger
man spy system in this country.
submarine controversy with Germany
had arisen. I cancelled all engagements
and hurried to Washington, not with
any definite plan, but in the hope that
I could be of some assistance in pre
serving peace.
"Since my arrival today, I have had
several conferences with prominent
democrats. I expect to have more con
ferences within the next two days.
Beyond that time my plans are in
definite. "I am hoping for two things in this
present grave situation. First, that
Germany will accede to the position of
the L'nited States; second, that if she
does not, diplomatic relations w ill con
tinue with a view to reaching an ami
cable settlement of the trouble.
"We must remember that there is
nothing final between friends. A rup
ture between this country and Ger
many would be unfortunate indeed. If
the dispute should end in war, it would
be unspeakable.
"We are going to work to preserve
peace if possible. Our plans are ten
tativa and 1 can not discuss them at
this time."
Tonight Mr. Bryan attended a testis
monial dinner given to the widow of
Joseph Fe)s of Philadelphia, founder
of a fund for the promotion of the sin
gle tax doctrine. He was so hoarse that
he spoke with difficulty and explained
4.i . X... 1 1 .....i,til .,,1(1 tld il Alllr ,lf
itiMA'inir his hair cut while in the west.
Hurled one' hundred feet along the
Arizona Eastern track at Kendall sid
ing, when the car in which sne had
lieen riding was struck by the Mar
icopa train at 7:40 last night. Mrs.
Grey Butler of 612 Maple Ave.. Tempe
sustained injuries from which she
died before she could be brought to
a hospital here.
Mrs. Harry .Jones, driver of the car
sustained a broken hip and three
year old Madge, daughter of Mrs.
Butler a fractured skull. Grey But
ler and Harry .Tones, in a second car.
a hundred yards back of the stalled
machine, witnessed the. tragedy in all
its frightful details.
Two happy families, returning from
a supper party at the Jones residence,
south of Kendall siding, were plunged
into unutterable grief last evening,
when the car. in which the women
and the little girl were riding, was
demolished by the train moving
swiftly, in spite of every effort on
the part of Engineer Arthur Diehl
to bring it to a stop.
Dieh saw the Car. on the crossing.
when he was 2',0 feet away. He saw
Mrs. .Butler jump from the machine
and snatch her baby from the seat.
He realized the car was stalled and
instantly applied the air. He re
versed the engine. So quickly was the
speed of the train ciiecked. the pass
engers were hurled from their seats.
Governor Hunt was among those on
the train, and he was thrown into
the aisle.
The train struck the car and
pitched it. a mass of almost unrecog
nizable wreckage, into a pond of
water on the north side of the track.
The body of Mrs. Butler was carried
a hundred feet by the engine, and the
last coach had just passed the cross
ing, when the train was brought to
a complete stop.
Members of the train crew and the
two men brought the injured to the
train, which was backed at high
speed to Phoenix, where the ambu
lance of Moore and McLellan had
been summoned by telephone. Mrs.
Butler died before being taken from
the train. Mrs. Jones and the little
girl were rushed to the Sisters' Hos
pital, where operations were per
formed that will probably insure their
recovery. pm&
Unconscious of Danger
Nearlv out of his mind, Butler was
unable to talk about the accident, but
the story was related to The Repub
lican bv Jones at the hospital last
night.
We had all lieen at my house for
supper. The rive ot us were tnen
returning to Tempe. The women were
in the car ahead. We drove along
slowly back of them. I saw the glare
Tin IHIINIILI
TROOPSFINOTO ! DF MEXICO SOON
IN MEXICO
TO BE EFFECTIVE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, April 20. It
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS IN MEX
ICO. April 17. (Via Aeroplane to Co-1 officially announced today that Mex
himbus. N. M., April 20.) The entire iCoa new mining law will be made
strategy of the Villa chase up to ef ectjve witnin le next few days
its blockade bv Carranza forces at , . , ,
Parral. Is as follows: a to ''sued ,,y
First was the organization of a'arranza.
secret force at Hachita, X. M.. while! The most striking feature of the
the main . expeditionary ' TUtd'y'went j new law will be its .discouragement
in via Columbus. .Brig. General J. J. of large holdings of undeveloped
Pershing and his staff joined this j claims for purposes of exploration or
Hachita column at the border by . exploitation. The present law does
fast automobiles and then led it by, not limit the number of claims which
Germany Says Will Permit
Exportation Of Dyestuffs
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 20. The Ger
man government has agreed to permit
exportation to the United States of
IS.OOO tons of dyestuffs, lack of which
has seriously affected American textile
manufacturers. Notification to this ef
fect was contained in a note delivered
today by Count Von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, to Secretary
Lansing.
I The communication explains that
Mr. Marshall said he had turned the while Germany refused at first to per-
iiiguiry on this point over to Captain mit exportation of dyestuffs unless they
William B. Offley of the department of
Justice who conducted the investigation
unused routes at high speed to Casus j
Grandes.
There the presence of Villa at San
Miguel, about 60 miles southeast was
ascertained. General Pershing rushed
out three columns to catch him. Poor
guides and a railroad accident re
sulted in the failure of these three
iron fingers to close about Villa
there. They missed him by barely
twenty-four hours.
Next pursuing columns were sent
secretly through mountains to catch
him at Namiquipa, about 225 miles
below the American border. Villa was
warned and escaped through the
mountains toward the east.
The fourth phase then developed.
when Colonel George A. Dodd, at
leneral Pershing's orders, took the
'string of the bow" a straight line
southward, west of the mountains.
while Villa was taking the "arc of
the bow" a longer route east of the
mountains. This surmise of the
American staff proved correct enab
ling Dodd to strike Villa as the lat
ter rounded up at Guerrero March
28. Throughout every one of these
movements the Americans received no
guidance from Carranza military men
and lack of guides each time delayed
the pursuers just long enough to
may be denounced, and some of the
largest mining companies . have as
many as 1.VJ0. each claim represent
ing one hectare or approximately two
and one-half acres.
The present government believes
that denouncements of excessive size
in the case of precious metals to lie
detrimental to its interests, and it is
expected that it consequently will put
what is believed to be a prtdiihitory
tax on such holdings.
The new schedule of taxes for re
gions bearing precious metals will be
based on minimum and maximum
holilings. The first clan will repre
sent the small mine owners holding
ten or less claims, who will be called
up to pay an annual tax of six dol
lars Mexican gold, for each claim.
The second clan represents the aver
age company, holding ten to fifty
claims, from which an annual lax of
twelve dollars Mexican gold on each
claim will be collected. The third
clan represents the large companies
holding fifty to one hundred claims,
for which the new law provides a
tax of SIS a claim annually in Mex
ican gold. Larger holdings than this
being against the wishes of the gov
ernment, it will collect an annual
tax of $24 Mexican gold for each
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 20. Diplom
atic negotiations with General Car
rar.za as well as the pursuit of Villa
by the American soldiers aparently
are at a standstill while President
Wilson awaits full advices as to the
military problems the troops have en
countered in Mexico.
With the arrival of Major General
Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff, in San
Antonio tomorrow night to consult
with General Funston, the informa
tion sought by Secretary Baker will
will begin to come forward by wire.
Since the question of distance and
necessary brevity of wire reports,
however, prompted the secretary in
dispatching his chief adviser, it is
improbable that any important step
will be taken by the cabinet tomor
row or until General Scott returns.
Mr. Baker explained today that
he himself hud suggested the plan
of sending General Scott. Tn weigh
ing the situation on the border, he
aid. the inadequacy of the tele
graphic reports received and the lack
of knowledge of local conditions sur
rounding the. forces on the border and .'
in Mexico, was so apparent that it
seemed desirable that an effort be
made to ascertain by personal con
su1catTrsii"ihe Ttn 'views r of General ,
Funston and all of the information
he has.
Aditional reports from General
Pershing, outlined in border advices
today, probably will be ready for con
sideration by the cabinet tomorrow.
As the hist meeting of the president's
official advisers was devoted almost
wholly to the German situation it
seems probable that the Mexican
problem will be fully reviewed by
the cabinet then foe. the first time
since General Carranza urged the
withdrawal of the expedition.
Reports from Mexico reaching" the
state department also will be avail
able. As far as known. . these tell
of increased.- rather than lessened,
difficulties surrounding the expedi
tion. An instance of this is the re
port that an unknown number of
Carranza treiops have been moved
to the Parral region, where General
Pershing's most advanced base now is
located. Tile observer who reported,
this, added that while the movement
he believed was not authorized by the
de facto government heads, it was
intended as a hint that tho Americans
must not move farther southward.
Apparently only a comparatively
small force was involved and offi
cials here regarded it as significant
rather than serious. It was accepted,
however, as added proof that the out
lying Carranza garrisons are not et-
(Contlnued on Page Two)
I
Continued from Page Eight I
BELIEVE MEXIGRK SITUATION IS
(Continued on Page Eight)
blockade, after careful consideration of
the situation it has been seen "that this
blockade has resulted in serious em-
l barrassment to those American Indus
tries which are in need of dyestuffs,
and the imperial German government
now Is prepared to make "a single ex
ception," in permitting exportation in
this Instance. It is required only that
the dyestuffs shall be consumed by
American manufacturers and not re
exported to Great Britain or her allies.
It is expected that the state depart
ment immediately will make represent
ation to Great Britain to insure the
be exchanged for American goods, now safe passage of the dyestuffs lo this
excluded from Germany by the British country. ,
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Half Million
Armenians Have
Been Massacred
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April 20. The Rev'.
Charles T. Riggs, editor of "The Orient'
American Board of Foreign Missions,
who recently returned to America, after
living seven years in Turkey, declared
in a statement issued today that the
Armenian massacres were checked
through the efforts of German and
Austrian diplomatic representatives.
He expressed the opinion that not
more than 500,000 Armenians were
killed, instead of 1,000,000 as has been
reported. .
Revolutionary ideas brought in from
Russia, he asserted, had much to do
with the trouble. The Turks, he ex
plained, had turned on a whole people
instead of concentrating their efforts
upon the punishment of individuals ac
tually engaged in fomenting revolution.
Religious hate and business jealousies,
he- said, led the Turks on to great
lengths, after they had started out to
destroy revolutionaries. .
Millions of Turks, Mr. Riggs declared,
are in dire need and conditions are
getting worse steadily. Prices, espe
cially those of foods, have risen from
500 to 1,000 per cent. The most seri
ous condition has arisen, however,
from the lack of medicines. Quinine
can not be bought at all.
NOWOF SECONDARY IMPORTANCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire United
I?! I1 CO Tot Ar,r.il OA I tn Vf,,,, -
day, the Chihuahua City newspapers i
printed dispatches, supposed to have
come from Juarez, stating that Pres
ident Wilson was about to deliver an
ultimatum to Germany and- that war
would be declared within a week.
This information was brought here
today by Americans returning from
Chihuahua who brought copies of the
papers in which the dispatches ap
peared.
The arrivals said that the news of
the crisis between Germany and the
United States was common talk in
Chihuahua on Sunday, forty-eight
hours before the facts were made
public in this Country. On Monday an
American who visited General Gutier
rez was greeted with this remark:
Well. I suppose the Mexican situa
tion has become of minor importance
now that the United States is going
to war with Germany.''
The Americans who returned here
said that the - Mexicans were being
kept fully acquainted with every step
in the negotiations between Berlin
and Washington through an official
agency in Mexico City and that they
knew more about the crisis between
the United States and Germany
thun they did about the pursuit of
Villa. .
Major J. M. Carpia. of General Ob-regon's-
staff, who is spending his
honeymoon here, issued a statement
tonight denying the reported stories
that General Obregon is hostile to the
States. The last of these
stories, and ene Which received wide
circulation, was that Carranza's min
ister of war has issued a proclama
tion calling on all Mexicans to unite
and drive the Americans from Mex
ico; Major Carpia said no such
proclamation had ever been issued.
REQUEST TROOPS NOT
TO ADVANCE FARTHER
I CHIHUAHUA. Mex., April 20.
The government organ here today
j publishes an interview with Col-
onel J. L. Herrera, father of Gen- I
I eral Luis Herrera, Mayor of Par- i
j ral, in which the latter said that
he had instructions from General
j Luis Gutierrez, Chihuahua state j
j commander, to request .the Amer- I
j ican troops not to advance far- I
I ther south than Santa Cruz de I
Viilegas situated fifteen miles
! north of Parral, where they now
are. I
D
Pay Is Small So Carranza
Garrison Is In Revolt
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , 'sympathizers had set it on fire, is not
DOUGLAS, Ariz., April 20. Reports
reahing here today from Nacozari,
state that the garrison of ISO de facto
Mexican troops had become insubordin
ate because of the low price of consti
tutionalist money. The men are re
ported to be paid two pesos a day in
de facto currency, this being received
at two and a half cents gold on the j
peso by merchants under governmental j
orders. Thus their wages are equova-
lent to five cents American money.
Major Mesa is said to have calmed
the men temporarily and marched them
out of the town to prevent any out
break. A trestle on the Nacozari railroad,
five miles south of Douglas burned
today from unknown causes. An
alarmist rumor, which said that Villa
believed. The bridge being out pre
vented the passenger train from the
south coming to Agua Prieta. Auto
mobiles sent from here brought many
of the passengers in. The bridge will
be completely repaired by morning and
regular service resumed tomorrow.
Local Mexicans who visited General
Calles at Fronteras today report that
he is confined to his bed by sickness.
but expects to return to Agua Prieta
Saturday or Sunday and resume his
duties.
Consul Ives G. Lelevier stated today
that the de facto troeips in Sonora will
be held stationary in their present
camping place until the outcome of
General Scott's visit to the border has
been learned. He says that General
Calles feels confident the American
troops will be withdrawn.
