J1
! THE WEATHER
;Vflr THE LEDGER Ii an iinttltlng
! mcilhim that bring remit. Oor J
rules nre eontlxtcnt with circa. 4
j InttoD, Ilookg open to Inipcctlon. j
J j I ! ! 4 4 I I
K ''If end- slightly cooler
NHodajr$ tomorrow fair. !
K
J J .J. Jt J J J J J J4 J J
"XKKL V KKPVBT.tCAX-tll,
iA'L V rtJBUO LKDOKS-lltt.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1010.
OJVJff COPYONB CENT.
IP'' Ski MVw
St
MAN WAXTKD IX FMJMIXO L'OUX
TV IS AltllKSTKD.
Ofllcor Dudley Fixer arrested Jcsbb
L. dray At tawlnburg Thursdny nnd
took lil m to FlemltiRghurg, where ho
In wnntod on a clinrgo of Issuing
DEATH OK 31 ItS. KATIIKHINK HEIN
MAX.
The body of Mrs. Cnthcrlno Hcr
mnu, wlio died nt her homo In Mc-
Mohcnu, W. Vn., several days nfio, was
brought to this city Frldny morning
checks en n bank In which lie had In-and tnken direct to tho Catholic ccm-
tery nt Washington for interment. Mrs.
Herman wan an mint of Mrs. James
M. Collins and Mrs. Thomns Mnlono of
nufflclont fniidx
Mrs. A. :. Clbson of May8Vlllp, Is
the guest of Mrs. Homer Kovll of this city.
. . . 171 rt ...t. i 1 Ml. 1
uaitu riiteu.i.i. niit'fi. emu iiiiii-ui i. , . .
yeslerdny.-Covlngton Item In Times-1 Sec tho neckwear, parasols, etc., at n y r , 7
i I Inn (I Iftn'a vn turn w v, im w
ENTIRE VILLAGE
SHAKEN BY BLAST
Terrific ExnlnHlon At N'ow Hlchniond
Caused Damage Sound Was
Heard Within n Hndlus
of Fifty Miles.
Houses In New Richmond, 0 and
Stnr.
Thursday beforo daybreak
quantity of dynamlto and powder,
stored In a temporary frame structuro
DANIEL PAUL PAINFULLY HURT.
Mr. Dnnlcl J. I'aul suffered a paln
fut Injury nt his homo In tho East
Had Thursday morning when a pleco Uv
..r !,.... i.i.. .. .i.i-i. i.i. i i
ui nviiT iiiuuui wiuvii iiih uromcrB,
Charles and Henry Paul, woro moving,
slipped and hit him and knocked him
down. Ho wns carried Into his homo
and Dr. Lcsllo Drnnd was called and
found that his right collar bono was
broken and that ho was considerably
bruised. It Is thought that his In-
M'GRAYNOR SIGNED
Mnrmlllc Club, Ifnilng Keen
Turned Hack Ily Toledo Man.
nger Jones and Harry
Dcioro Arrhr.
Hints for House Cleaners
Gilt.
Aluminum.
O'Cedar Oil.
Liquid Veneer.
O'Cedar Polish Mops.
Old English Brightner.
Old English Floor Wax.
Enamel for Iron Beds and Sinks.
Iron Kotc for Grates, Stovepipes, etc.
HENDRICKSON'S
Wall Paper Paints Rugs
"Muck" Mcdraynor. tho star twirl
or of Moysvlllo Inst season, who wns.
irntieu to tno Toledo Amer run Asan.
Juries will keep him connned for about elation tenm sovernl days ngo, has
six weeks. Mr. Paul has been n suf-'been returned by that club to Mays
ferer from rheumatism for Bovoral I vlllo on account of his not being In
Z "'jL'r."f. dnm B ,,,1,U.hl8 that he has been unablo to got turo to a Moysvlllo contract. Mc-
. nuont very mile 1. so It sceinn ml lin Urnvnor rnnnrlml in TV, I ,..ln,,,i
having his sharo of
WOX.
tiic explosion wns caused oy nrc ia .....i,.!.
1V111UU lIUBllUIUtl IIIU UUllUMlbB UIVUIVU lrn1.l, u.
.t. tr.......i... i i... M. 1 """
tional Contract Company, 'l no roar MAYSVIIiLE 1IOV
was ucnru lor uiiy mucs up nnu uown
mo river, tho loss is estimated at Thn iriPn i,, ., ,if,.i
$60,000, and the work on tho now dam n,. Hnrvnr.i l.nnt rm in n,
I.i .!.. ..I ...III l. .ll...1 .. " .. iunu,fe
.ii mill ipiiiw u i uuinjuii iu. matcii on carnoglo mko nt 1'rlncoton
u hi imi.iu B, ii id buiu, ramiK Yuiu- N J( Thursday afternoon. Mr. Hob
auio urawings nnu records were o- crt Ai Cochran, Jr.. son of Judco A
stroycu uy tno lire. f t. rwhrnn nf thi nUv i on.nin
Tho names started from an over- nf .)ln iiPnminn nrw i,n,i i, i.i
I l..n.l rr.lnnn In .1,. ,n1,nn nlmn . . . V I "ll6
"" ,lu "v" v , JU'i'or maKes tne feat of defeating
and were discovered by Night Watch- Harvard a very rcmarkablo one and
man Murphy, who was In charge of B,)ows tlmt tho mm trom MnyBvllle Is
I J "u,ul , "V, Bt ' , , . "'lu '"t t"o Onnl hope of this great country In
I l.li.i Inrv lii.ll.Mr.i. .1 .1 1 1 ..... , n Innfrnni nnl ... . 1 "
i.Mi..nuh iiiiiiuiiit, unii uiuuu iniiitviuoi 0111 rlirn na wnll no in. noao
I jv t 1. 1 . . n I " '
1 t:uuriH ui ciicck inu Hpreau ui iiiu uru.
Hy the time n few volunteers had
started the pumps the flro had com
municated to tho carpenter and black-
STHKET 1V0HK I'lMKJHESSIXU.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car
Good Order For
Spring
m
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
fiOODyEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cult by tho No-Rlm-Cot feiture.
3lowoutt by the "On-Alt" cute.
Looa Tread. by mnuy rubber rivets,
lm.curitr by 12G bralilril pinna wires.
Puncturti and Skiddinu by Dio double,
thick All-Weather trvad.
Cnntrnrlnrn Hclinnldnl,! X. Tmmc, nm
Biiiiiu Biioiis unu 10 inu Kuvcriiuiviu norta III v lint lot nrr nnv rrmaa rm
offlce. The bucket brigades were ,mi,(!r thelr fcct ,n Ule ew Btrcet
driven back by tho extreme heat and construction. Tho concrete curbing
unu. inu uAiMUKiuu inu iiivii iw u on wuitoii street is almost completed
approach any closer thnn absolutely nml work wng bcRun pn Ix)Wer Mnrkct
iiui.uBii street Friday mornlnc.
rr .-.1 . n .1 1 "
UIJlllIIUBBitry UUI1UII1K UIIll IIIU
company s olllco building wore saved. ,d 19J5 MCFXSF TVti1
Din an tiic iiuiciuncry, 1001s uuu :i
large qiiantlty of vnluablo lumber Mr. Allln James, tlm RnBt Rnnr.11,1
were ustroyeu. r.van 1-. none, junior Btreot 1 vervmati. wnn nrrr.Kl,l Tlmro.
engineer, attached to the olllce of tho day by Chief of I'ollce James Mackev
united States Engineers nt Clncln- for running nn automobile with a 1915
nan, is in cnargo 01 1110 government iiccnso tng on It. He will be given a
supervision. 110 was orocreu immc- nearlng beforo Judge John L. Whlt-
diateiy oy .uajor apnioing, u. a. a., nker In Pollco Court.
1 to suumit a report on too nre.
0. s. 1.. sciirm i.v nvinv vwt
kibl- mitt r tiMiiriv ltiiin im 111111 '
. . . i - -
1I03IE AT (JUTHRIK, OKLA.
ord has been received hero from
Mrs. Belle Seaman, wife of Mr. President Joo Cnrr of tho Ohio State
Alonzo Seaman, former resident of League that the schedule Is now In
this city, died at her home In Guthrie, the hands of tho printer and will bo
Okia., on Tuesday, April 11, and was ready for tho fans early next week.
uurieu nt tnat place. .Mrs. seaman
will be remembered by many of our MTDIMill'IIA KDS.
older residents. She has many friends
and relatives Here wlio will bo sur- .Miss Elizabeth Liter and Mr.
prised and pained at the news of her Charles W. Klchards. both of Paris.
ucatn, wnicn came nrtor many montns wore married by Rev. A. F. Stabl nt
of Intense suffering. Deceased was the Christian church parsonage Thurs-
an aunt or Airs. J. it. Ulclianlson 01 1 tiny ovpiung nt 8:30 o clock.
this city, nnd was also closely related
to Mr. I. M. Lane. Mis. Mary J. Holliday has returned
to her home in this city after nn ex-
ItlES lenueti visit to friends and relatives In
K inclnnntl and vicinity.
LKXIXOTOX TO II A CCO 3IAX
OF HEAItT FAIU'KE.
having had nny training, and as that
club wanted a pitcher to begin mound
duty Immediately, "Muck" was not
tho man wanted. With 11 few weeks
practice hero ho should bo as good
as over and ready to start when tho
boll rings.
Manngcr Jimmy Jones arrived
Thursday night and snld that tho rest
of tho players would nil bo hero In
n few days. Dy tho first of tho week
Leaguo Park will bo swarming with
young athletes anxious to show their
goods.
Harry Dovorc, speedy outfielder of
last year's local team, arrived Thurs
day and Is ready to begin work. Ho
looks to bo In good condition nnd says
ho expects to havo a great year.
House Cleaning Wants
We can fill your order for
Ammonia Scrub Brushes Dutch Cleanser
Hrooms Buckets
Sal Soda Sapolto Mops
Phone us your wants
mmu
Dinger Bras., 1D! at" j
.1
Mr nnd Mrs, Itobert 11 Showcn of. Our price this week for butterfat,
Tollcsboro, wero visitors In tho city 35 cents, Maysvllle.
Thursday. . MATSYILLE MODEL ORBAMHrlY.
Special Sale Price on 3
Auto Goggles Plash Lights Safety Razors
Thermos Lunch Box Sets Icy-Hot Bottles
Balls Bats Skates
Maruil Oil Mop, 2,sc Ask about our Moth Killer
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
QUICK SERVICE. PHONE 91.
IS
Miss Mary Dueklev. Mrs. Knena Mv.
n,? ?rnmXIr8L " ?ovin, hnvc f1"' Wallpaper cheaper than ever, 3c, 4o Try a want ad In The Ledger's clas
chinntl y nnd 50 for 8 yanl8' J T Kackley & Co. slfled column. It will bring results.
21. Fulton
Itev. Peter AValkcr has bsen called
to La Grango by tho serious Illness
THE HOME OF QUALITY CLOTHES
ON EASTER MORN
you'll want your youngster clad in his best. To give you an opportunity to buy
America's finest clothes for boys we offer this week our splendid line of boys' suits
(two knickers with each suit) at prices ranging from $5.00 to $12.00. These suits
are the newest spring patterns in all-wool fabrics.
Also, Easter Neckwear, Shirts, Caps, Gloves and Hats, specially priced.
Bring theboys in. A ball or bat given with every suit.
D MZEGMIISra-Bl cfc, GO.
3a
Lexington, Ky., April
W. Clare aged 40 years, president of of llls fniheVTuo;. WH, aTwa ker
the Lexington Tobacco Doard of
Trade and local mnnacer of a larce " "
eastern tobacco company, died here LnwWtVw.Ai,A(HwitoiUHfW
OUR EASTER SEASON
yesterdny of heart trouble. Mr. Clare
was one of tho best known tobacco
LUMBER DELIVERIES mcn of tll south. Ho had managed
are very heavy this year. Building tobacco plants nt Danville and Rocky
operations of all kinds am In full Mount, Va., Durham nnd Greenville, N.
swing nnd wo are getting moro than t- and Florence. S. I.
our share of lumber orders, especially
from tho most experienced and expert
builders. They know good lumber and
DEATH OF WILLIAM FOLEY.
lumber values. That's why they do
Mr. William Foley, aged CO years,
iholr hnvlno lw.ro Th.r. ohm,i,i h i " ' " liromiiieiu luriucrB o( UIO
hint In that fact for you. " , , '""eoou. iw
. , at his home Thursday morning after
1 he MaSOn Lumber Company a several weeks' Illness of a com nil. I
rnrnir T.lmiKtnnp nnd 5irnini sirfa cation of diseases. Ho Is survived by
XUUUB 1U, I In tliu Wnehlnntr.,. innu.lnn' OnlM.lav I
ji. .t, -uiuousiiuu. i4. ii. ijciimd. I morning.
TIRES!
Kelly,
t Miller,
American,
U. S. Brander.
Bought before the advance.
Prices right. Big Stock. If
you need tires, here's your
Opportunity.
MIKE BROWN
HOSE LEE ULES DEAD.
Miss Hoso Leo Grimes, aged 18
years, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jo
seph GrlmcB of the Orangeburg neigh
borhood, died Wednosday night after
a short Illness. Funeral from her
lato homo Friday morning. Durlnl In
tho Whaley burial grounds.
TEKKIFIC ST0H3I AT LOUISVILLE.
Louisville, Ky., April 21. A terrific
wind and hall storm swept over Louts
vlllo lato yesterday, unroofed numer
ous houses, blew down brick walla
and caused damage estimated at up
ward of $100,000. .Most damage was
dono In tho western end of tho city,
whero a three story brick warehouse
of tho J. W. Wnthen Distilling Com
pany, wns completely destroyed nnd
warehouses of tho Glcncoo and Sunny
Drook distilleries partially wrecked.
BIG WEEK AT THE M ASHIXfiTO.V.
A TALK ON
CRETONN
Cretonnes today are the study of famous artists. Artists design them and other artists use them.
New cretonnes unoommon designs are everywhere sought after, and the discovery of one is looked
upon one as a real find.
We are showing an unsually large stock of inexpensive cretonnes, 15c to 35c yard. Included are bright
garden cretonnes for wall hangings, curtains, upholstering, for pillows, for all sorts of cozy nooks, for bed
spreads and the furniture in the bedroom, for women's slippers and hat boxes.
Subdued forest cretonnes for men's rooms, where things of masculine type, or neutral colors are desired.
A special curtain and drapery display is now being held on our second floor. You arc cordially invited
to call.
I lass
Mr. Simon Nelson was a business Dr. N. A. Palmer of Louisville, stato Mr. N'clsou Kills, student nt Miami Christian church ladles will havo a
visitor In Illplcy, 0., Thursday. secretary of tho AutUSaloou League, University, Oxford, O., is spending the sale of cakes, pies, etc., nt Hyder's
was hero Thursday on business con- liaster holdlyas with his father, Dr . Taint Storo at 10 30 Saturday mom-
Useful Easter gifts at Hoefllch's. Inectcd with that cause. I A. X. Kills, at Aberdeen. ling.
Tho YVnshlncton theater la urennr
ling for their biggest week beginning
i.wumiuy, Aiini -i. ino wceK s pro
gram will consist of four Paramount
and two Triangle productions, begin
ning with a return engagement of
"An Allen," starring George Uoban,
For National Paramount Day on
Thursday, April 27, they will show U
.Mary Plckford In "Bohlnd tho Scenes."
nnu "Australia ununown, ootn rar- a
amounts. 9
CLASSIFIED ADS PAY.
Mr. Nowell Stlckloy lost a valuable
goiu suck pin, 8ci wnn poaris, scvorniiw
days ago. A lost ad was Inserted In W
The Ledger and the pin wns returned
by Mrs. Doeclier Holliday,
Mr. John McAuIlffo lost a watch fob
with a gold K. of C charm attached to
It. Again a Ledgor lost ad was seen
and tho fob and charm wero returned
by Mr. William Myors.
It pays to ndvortlso.
Our Easter Greetings?
Spring Styles Make Their Bow
44
THE SQUARE DEAL MAN'
WINS DISHES.
all
A
Mr. W. K. Jacobs, tho elllclent clerk
of tho Chonoweth Drug Company, held
the lucky number that won tho dishes
at tho Gem theater Thursday night
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
A 4 a m 11 A1 In.n Q W- ...J 1 A V r . I Im 1
. wl v., -'ruk i rum uouie uoiniujr om.su ceuis w julT0 ju8UHed tbo latest Itn.
4 mmi ktit Pumpkin onljr....25 centi 3 cam good Toiaatoti only... 25 centl prored Carpet and Hug clcanlnir ma-1
Tbea goods aro worth mor at wholesale coL W do not want to carnr cUno on tho market. Telephone u
juy ovm.
MJJL OOOTULD,
$1.00 worth of Stamps Free Saturday If you bring your stamp book. Wc are prepared for a big rush in
m departments. Wc will appreciate it if some of our good customers would come early Saturday morning.
wonucnul stock ot bnoes and uxtords, millinery, bints and oats, urcsscs, blurt waists, Uloves, Neckwear
and Hosiery.
This is Maysville's Real Easter Store.
C
and wo will clean and delfrer your
iKOfi ana tarneu on inori nonce.
Fi4M 48, . u -v MOUNKX LAUNDltY CO.
a jjlii
M r. 1
S
i $
y&4
M
iiHP
