1 - tt HhhHB
row mIHHBHHI
H
Iron County Record. I
WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER.". I
VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 19. fl
- . .... ... . iH
"IWRIBERSAID
NEW PRESS MOVE
, Roll of Honor Shows Good Num-
Lyj ber Willing to Aid This
K -1' Worthy Undertaking
fct STILL MANY? HUNDREDS
f " v THAT OUGHT TO COME
W, The Record Deeply Appreciates Ah-
k slstaiice of Those Mentioned Be- ,
iL-" low, and Invites Others
mfc" Hereto we append the ""Roll of
sL Honor" of thoHc of our subscribers
m ' who have responded to our request
W- for assistance 'in raising a fund for
r the purchase of a new printing press.
e and whilo the money thus derived will
P not go a great way towards the enter
ic ' ' prise, every dollar helps, and -makes
H "' that much less for us to raise by the
sale of capital stock. The people who
have contributed to the undertaking
'- ' by making payments on their sub
jV ' l scription accounts have shown a com
mcndablo desire to" assist in the devel
f f opment of Southern Utah, in aiding its
principal avenue of publicity, und are
' truly entitled to a place on the roll
" ' , of honor. Only ten days now remains
1 of the two months that were desig
r . natcd for the campaign, and we cordi
t5' ally invito the assistance of all those
'f, who have not yet volunteered their
2- assistance. Come right in, or mail
J E ' your remittance, and at least make
i m the dato opposite your name on the
1 subscription list read 1917. Several
of those whose names appear below
g, have paid for two years and extended
W their dates into 1918. But whether
W i, you do this or not, at least show your
g" '' good will and co-operation by paying
t something, and let us have the pleas
T 1 uro of including YOUR name in our
Jta roll of honor. Remember there are
T now only a few days remaining.
THE ROLL OF HONOR
ft w Mrs. D. C .Hanks, Tetonia, Idaho.
4a5h . . .David W. Ward, Parowan, Utah.
lUtm WiWli'A"rtraOS-
W? Orson F. Tylor, Thatcher, Ariz.
$ Mrs. J. W. Pollock, Black Rock, Ut.
M James Clark, Parowan, Utah.
"fejjUt Leo G. Joyce, Harpers 'Ferry, Iowa.
4 W" George H. Crosby, St. George, .Ut.
- w Charles Heyborno, City.
Pi Ernest A. Pickering, Heist, Utah.
V S. A. Hlgbee, City.
' E. M. Corry, City.
.: . Moroni Dalley, Summit, Utah.
If A. G. Matheson, City.
Mrs. A. L. Palm, City.
i Silas J. Ward, Parowan.
&& Dr. J. S. Trewholler, Montebella.Cal.
P Thomas Judd, St. George, Utah.
R. J. Williams, Kanarraville.
Harvey A. Pace, New Harmony.
J. 0. Rex, Cokevllle, Wyoming.
Z., C. M. L, Salt Lake City.
E. H. Conger, Salt Lake City.
Joseph S. Fife, City.
Thomas Davenport,. Parowan.
Hyrum C. Ford, Kanarraville.
E. J, Palmer, City.
Jethro Palmer, City.
E. A. Cox. Hamilton's Fort.
David Bulloch, City.
Alice Bulloch. City.
George B. Hale, Los Angeles, Cal.
Mrs. J. A. Root, Lund, Utah.
Caesar Myers, Panguitch, Utah.
Judge E. J. Milne, Salt Lake City.
Mrs. A. T. Olsen, Ephraim, Utah.
' Mrs. G. W. Brown, Bismark, N. D.
c Gomer D. Cosslett, City.
4 Myrtle Granger, Mesquite, Nev.
V W. J. Dooloy, Salt Lake City.
, Sam W. Leigh, City.
ru I. C. Higbee, City.
W. W. Pace, Thatcher, Ariz.
J. A. Wagner, Anita, Iowa.
Herbert Jolley, Glendalo, Utah.
Mrs. James Jacobson, Pine Valley.
Oscar Carlson, El Centro, Cal.
Jos. 'A. Anderson, Salina, Utah.
Judge J. F. Chidestor, Richfield.
Violet Rosenberg, Gunnison, Utah.
John Uric, -Hamilton's Fort.
C. J. Roller, Lund, Utah.
Mrs. Dan Lonny, Neihart, Mont.
Mrs. II. M. Harrison, Grt Falls.M't.
Wm. H. Corry, City.
- Mrs. Naomi Strong, San Bernardino
G. H. Hobbs, Latimer, Utah.
A. P. Spilsbury, Touerville, Utah.
W, W. Pollock, Kanarraville.
L. A. Thorley, Modena, Utah.
4 T. C. King, Coyote, Utah.
Mrs. Jane Walker, Shelly, Idaho.
Chas. D. Adams, Parowan.
A. D. Huntsman, Enterprise, Utah.
. Clara J. Haight, Oakley, Idaho.
- - J..E. Spencer, Hamilton's Fort.
Jw -Edward Parry, City.
Lawrence Bess, City.
. Mk' John P. Corry, Ogden, Utah.
f W Miss Bulah Hollis of the Clifton
H Ranch between this city and Lund will
' , ' entertain a number of invited guests
at an Easter party tomorrow evening.
A numbor of Cedar people have been
bidden to participate.
' - Charles Lundgren came up from the
a Dixio country yesterday, and will K
h v r to SaU Lake tomorrow. Mr. Lund-
4, K . gren has just fiiplahed shearing at
V? the. Ft. Pierce pans near St. George,
1& ' anu reports having sold a herd of his
s shwp. llesayB that work at the
1 ' ' shearing corrals is progressing satis-
,, factorlly, and that everything is green
and bwiutUwl in Dixie. Somo of the
&tmt TS putting and. gfrttinp .WP
1 s . ,
1
I '
aKL t. ", v. I, ...
ANOTHER BIG W-
fflNNMH.
Famous Salt Lake Opera (Juin-
tcttc Booked as the Next
B. A. C. Number.
' ' ' 4
IS COMPOSED OF ALL
STAR PERFORMERS
Many of Them Have National Repu
tation, and Cedar City and B. A.
C. Has Big Treat n Store.
Arrangements have been completed
by the Branch Agricultural College
Lyceum committee for the appearance
in this city on Friday, April tho 28th,
of the famous Salt Lake Opera Quin
tette. This organization hns filled sixteen
successful weeks at the Hotel Utah,
where guests from all parts of the
world have been free in stating that
the music rendered by this organiza
tion surpassed anything that they
have ever heard. At the invitation of
Mr. John Philip Sousa, the world's
famous band leader, this company of
artists appeared with Sousa's band at
the Salt Lake tabernacle and gave the
famous "Rigolctto" quartet, and as an
encore rendered the sextette from
"Lucia" without any rehearsal. Mr.
Sousa and tho Salt Lake press praised
tho singers for the excellent rendition
At every dinner of tho Bonneville club
the Salt Lake Opera quintet has ap
peared. In the program arranged for
this city, this organization will make
a specialty of selections from the
grand and lighter operas, including
"Robin Hood," "Rigoletto," "Faust,"
"High Jinks," "Lucia," "Yankee Con
sul," and "Martha." Besides, there
will bo many of the standard and up-to-dato
selections. The Salt Lake
Opera quintet appeared recently at
the Logan tabernacle under the auspi
ces of the Lyceum course, and Mr. J.
E. Hickman, chairman, had the follow
ing to say:
"Your concert was-a 'howling! suc
cess.' Everybody speaks very highly
of tho artists of that ovening. It
seems you could put that combination
on, one hundred evenings a year in
thtK Intel-mountain west."
The personneLofrthc Salt Lake Op
era, qulntetrincludcu such well-known
singers, as Mrs. Ruth Ingman-An-drews,
who since residing in Salt
Lake, has made a most enviable repu
tation. She appeared last season with
the Emma Lucy Gates Opera com
pany in one of the principal roles and
is considered Utah's foremost soprano.
Mrs. Andrews has filled many impor
tant engagements with flattering suc
cess. Another member of the organi
zation is Fred C. Graham, tenor, who
is widely known in Utah and Idaho
for his magnificent high lyric voice
and for his delightful interpretation
of the lighter songs. He has been
connected with all the important en
gagements around Utah and is consid
ered in Salt Lake as the most satis
factory and pleasing tenor singers in
that city. Miss Edna Dwyer, the con
tralto of tho quintet, is one of the pop
ular singers of Salt Lake and has had
many years of experience in opera
concert and oratoric. Miss Dwyer is
one of the gifted recital Bingers of
this intermountain section. The basso
of the quintet is J. .Willurd Squires.
He is a Utah product and has toured
the United States professionally with
various opera companies. Mr. Squires
is a member of the famous Imperial
male quartet which toured the Orphe
um circuit with great success and has
appeared with Masonic choir, under
the direction of Professor A. H. Pea
body during tho past several years.
The pianist of the organization is Miss
Stella Beesley of tho famous Beesley
family, known throughout Utah as
one of the leading musical families of
the state. Last summer she was a
member of tho piano class of Alberta
Jones whilo this great teacher wus in
Salt Lake and completed this special
courso as one of tho most finished and
talented of the entiro class.
Cedar City people cannot afford to
miss seeing this great attraction.
CALL FOR REPUBLICAN
PRECINCT PRIMARY
A primary of tho Republican party
of Cedar City is hereby called to con
vene in tho Cedar City Public Library
auditorium at 8 p. m., Wednesday.
April 26, 1910. The purpose of said
primary is to elect three delegates and
threo alternates to the Republican
State convention to bo held in Provo.
Utah, May 1st, 1910, at 10 a. m.; and
tho sama number of delegates and al
ternates to tho 1st Congressional Dis
trict Convention (Republican) to be
held iir Provo, Utah, May 1st, 1010,
at 2:30 p. in.
Tho Provo State convention will
elect four delegates and four alter
nates at large to the Republican na
tional convention which convenea in
Chicago June 7, 1916. The Provo Con
gressional District convention will
elect two delegates and two alternates
to the national convention.
Signed: J, S. WOODBURY,
Precinct Chairman.
II. II, LUNT,
v W &&&"
rt.
r - - y - V 6k
PE0PLE10CK TO
DEMONSTRATION
More than Thirty Auto Loads
from Cedar Visit the Big
Exhibition at Lund.
VALUABLE, INGENIOUS
EXHIBITS ARE SHOWN
Caterpillar Tractor Gives Demonstra
tion, and Eminent Lecturers
Instruct the Crowds.
Cedar City people responded in an
enthusiastic manner to the invitation
extended to them to meet the big
demonstration train of the AgricuU
tural Colleges of Utah and Nevada
and the Salt Lake Route, at Lund last
Saturday. Something more than 30
auto loads of people made the trip, it
being estimated that there were more
than 200 people present from this city.
Parowan also sent a few, thero was
one car load present from Toqucrvillo,
and uite a number of the settlors in
the western part of tho county were
also present.
A Great Exhibition.
It was certainly a great exhibition,
and it would be hard to lay claim to
any one or certain number of exhibits
being of greater impoitancc, or com
manding more attention than tho oth
ers. And whilo there is not room in
this brief article to mention till the
deserving things, we cannot refrain
from commenting on u few of them.
One of the first things to comand
attention was the Holt caterpillar en
gine, equipped with John Deere plows
and land leveller. This machinery
was unloaded from the car and gave
an actual demonstration of the work
it is capable of doing on the farms
of the country. One of thse demon
strations was given just prior to a
very able and interesting by Dr. W.
E. Taylor, director of tho soil cultiva
tion department of the John Deere
.Company oCMoline, ILL DrTaylor,
who, by the way, has an-M.. D.t
tached to his name, is not only recog
nized as one of the best authorities
on the subject of roil in tho United
States, but is also one of the ablest
and most happy public speakers it
has ever ben our pleasure to listen to.
He handled the subject in a manner
which must have made his meaning
clear to any child, and at the, same
time it was every whit pithy and full
of interest, with enough humor inject
ed to make it all palatcable. In the
afternoon the Doctor delivered an
other interesting talk upon Livestock
on the Farm.
During the forenoon the ladies were
entertained and instructed in the lec
ture car and in the home economics
exhibition cars, by Miss McCheyne,
tho witchery of whoso personality
never grows old or tiresome with her
hearers.
After lunch tho men were enter
tained by speeches from Sir Douglas
White, industrial agentt for thto Salt
Lake Route, and the originator of the
demonstration train, who gave a lot
of wholcsomo advice to the farmers
present, and assured them that the
railroad was ready and unxious to co
operate with them in any way possi
ble, and that it was up to them to
get busy and develop the land, when
there would be no difficulty in getting
the railroad to extend its lines thru
their territory.
Paxman Makes Sensible Talk.
Mr. J. W. Paxman of the Extension
Division of the Agricultural College,
followed and made a very sensible ad
dress, running tho risk of displeasing
some of his auditors in pointing out
tho uselossncss of attempting to raise
wheat on certain portions of tho Esca
lanto Desert under methods being pur
sued by some of the residents. In
the car devoted to agricultural re
search, were shown samples of the
various soils of the southwestern por
tion of Utah, with tho native vegeta
tions, showing which wore suitable
for dry farming methods, and which
were not. Ho advised tho settlors who
had been placed upon stubborn and
refractory soils to try to develop wat
er upon their farms, by means of pump
wells and to devote themselves to the
raising of crops hotter adapted than
wheat, among which were mentioned
Soudan grass and somo varieties of
beans. He condemned in the strong
est terms unscrupulous land agents
who had ben responsible for the lo
cating of Innocent homegeekera upon
land, which in many cases was prac
tically worthless.
Many Splendid Exhibits.
In addition to tho exhibits men
tioned above, thero wero a numbor de
serving fttvornblo notice. An entiro
car was occupied by the Utuh-Idaho
Sugar Company, which had un excel
lent showing of its products, and gavo
out a number of nice souvenirs to tho
visitors to their car. The Fnlrbanks
Morso company had a very complete
showing of their engines and electric
motors, and tho Genoral Electric Co.
had a veritable wonderland of Its labor-saving
and pleasure giving de
vices, and with its largo engine and
dynamo generated tho electricity on
tho spot with which the entire train
was lighted and tfepplfcd. Thv lfvfer-
GOULD BOOSTS
IN .DEPOSITS
D. & R. G. Vice President Pre
dicts Early Developments
in This County.
VISITS THE WEST ON
TOUR OF INSPECTION
Snys "ExistenDe of Almost Inexhaus
tible Deposits of Undeveloped Iron
in Utah is Well Known in EaBt"
(Salt Lake Hcrald-Republicun.)
Early development of the iron fields
In Iron county and tho attending bene
fit to tho Iron industries of Utah is
predicted bv Kingdon Gould, vice pre
sident of tho Denver & Rio Grande,
and director of the Utah Fuel company
and an official in various capacities of
all the Gould lines, who arrived in Salt
Lake yesterday in his private car. Mr
Gould is on a tour of inspection which
already has extended to tho terminals
of most of tho Gould lines, as far south
as New Orleans.
"I am in Utah with the express pur
pose of inspecting properties of the
utan i-uei compnny," said Mr. Gould.
"This I will do tomorrow with A. II
Cowie, vice president of the companv
While tho inspection docs not signify
any now developments, Buch as rail
road extensions, it may be admitted
that there is much intorest in tho pros
pects of activity in the iron districts
of Iron county. It will have a direct
relation with tho coal mining industry
and tho railroad industry.
Supply is Rich.
"Tho existence of almost inexhaust
ible deposits of undeveloped iron of su
Dorior quality in Utah is quite well
known by heads of tho iron industrv
in the east. There should be reason to
believe that the development of these
iron properties will come in tho near
future."
Mr. Gould said that whilo survevs
had been made by tho Denver & Rio
Grande for a railroad into tho Uintah
basin and a right of wav from Duches
ne to Randlctt was filed in the United
States land office In Vernal, thero Is
no-immediate intentionto build a rail
road exten8iorrther.-, -Thkrhe-sald
was due to financial difficulties at
tending tho Western Pacific railroad
which have been preventing- other
Gould lines from building extensions.
"If wo had money on hand the
building of a railroad Into the Uintah
country would bo undertaken at once."
added Mr. Gould. "A railroad, for
which surveys wore made a long time
ago would be extended down into
Huntington canyon and much other
improvement would be made. But it is
safe to say that tho necessary monoy
will not be on hand until after another
year, when It is hoped that tho West
ern Pacific outlook will bo more promising."
stock car was a drawing feature, as
was also the .government wool car,
and among them all there was none
more interesting, (Dgcnius and sugges
tive of helpful knowledge than the
car devoted to agriculture, and pre
sided over by Mr. J. W. Paxman. In
this car wero shown model farms and
farm buildings In minature, irrieation
systems and no end of agricultural
products. Among other things of in
terest were shown ono of tho gigantic
sage brushes from tho Parowan val
vey, which filled ono corner of tho car
with its hugo trunk and towering
branches,
The ladles' department was equally
interesting to the fair sex.
Lund experienced such a crowd as
had nover before ben known in its
history, and tho hotels were taxed to
thteir capacity to furnish lunch for
tho multitude.
Big Money in Lucerne Seed.
Attorney Will Higgins, who has
spent considerable time In Cedar City
this week is nlways n Btrong booster
for his part of the country. He states
that tho farmers In that locality are
for thtf most part getting rich and in
dependent from tho growing of lucerne
seed which yields a crop worth about
$100 per aero on the average, and in
practically a sure crop. One ranch
sold its crop of seed laBt year for
practically $100,000, ho states. In ad
dition to this, ho says that half a doz
en flowing wells have been struck nenr
Fillmoro during tho past six months
that flow almost 1,000 gallons per
minute each. Mr. Higgins gives it
as his opinion that thero are at least
5,000 acres of land in tho Cedar vallev
that will prow good lucerne seed with,
out irrigation, and says wo might lust
as well be raising a few hundred
thousand dollars worth of lucerne seed
in this valley as not.
Mr. niggins soemsto have the hap
py faculty of keeping his eyes open
wnile moving about through the country.
A humorisque party was enjoyed by
a select party of about twenty guests
at the hpme of Mrs. Ada Wood Web
ster last Friday evening. Tho guests,
for tho most part, wore ludicrous cos
tumoB, nnd tho ontiro program was
calculated to prjoduco the most up
roarous merriment. Somo of those
present, nbtwithstanding a wek has
elapsed, arc still complaining of pains
in tfcctr sidw.
s
1 j$& 1 A .
WILLIAM B. HIGGINS.
iH
Herewith is shown n, portrait ilH
of William B. Higgins, ono of sEI
southern Utah's attorneys whose i Xl
uumc will bo presented before tiH
the next Republican convention H
of tho Fifth Judicinl District of M
Utah for the nomination of dls- M
trict nttornoy of this district. H
Mr. Higgins is a son of the H
Into Dr. S. G. Higgins, whoso
memory is dear to all southern !"H
Utah for his skill and faithful- i'H
neRR to tho suffering. ' M
Ho Ir a man of exceptional H
ability In his chosen profession,
nnd has done much to correct jl
tho wrongs of society. He po- j
se9scs the power to move men to H
cither smiles or tears. Ho is 'J
an orator and vocalist of no
mean ability, and withal a sue- j
ccssful attorney. His career as JHI
public prosecutor in Idaho for some years, and especially against the liquor B
interests, hns been the subject of much favorablo comment. Mr. HigginB is U
an untiring worker und has attained to the ranks of tho leading attorneys 'jH
of' Utah through constant application and tho burning of midnight oil. Ho 1
hns mndo good in whatever he hns attempted, and if elected district attornoy f
ho will maintain tho dignity and respect which that office now enjoys, and i JH
will bring terror to bootleggers nnd nil other criminals. Adv. CB
$H
SLANDER ' I M
The following -poem from the pun of our esteemed
410- friend, E. C. Cox, is the lust ono that he, has composed. In 1 H
fact it was not quite completed when ho was bmitten with i
paralysis tome months ago and from which he has as yet
only partially recovered. Like most of hiB writings, it po- jH
scsscs much merit from a literary point of view, and the ' jA
sentiment is lofty, as usual: 7
Some folks persist to turn and twist -M H
The sayings of their neighbors, , i ,H
To such degree, it seems to be V ,i H
The chief part of their labor. . . jH
A word not meant to cause dissent 4 ..,, i ' M
Or any hostile feeling, 'vtf-UVt, UjU, - I-tH
' Will'oft' become excusa for some1 f ' f ,-, J H
- - -0rie.s se(et doubledtag,y gferJB
A whisper may be heard today ' ' , m ' CjlH
That oft' becomes to-morrow ' ' '' m . il'VI
So loud a thing that it will bring u..ig- &ft&b ' ft M
No end of strife and sorrow. '.,'"' -J " " Vf tH
A sentence spoke in simple joke - h' .- r ' ) jfH
Will circle and meander ' (M ' H
"Mongst secret foes, 'till soon it grows &!.. - , H
' Into a full fledged slander. 'VU t L 'IS
And so it goes, and no one knows, ''$ ksKj y ? il
The discord and contention " ry H
The feuds begun, the mischief done '',.' v i iH
Through slander's vile invention. , H
Could we but glide at slander's side ' J ,1'' H
To where his passion centers, ' ; 'lit hf J H
And feel the pang of its cruel fang N$y&3 t. " H
When in some heart it enters. I W 1i """"H
Some people seem to daily scheme '& f? " j 'jH
Another's life to sadden ; .i;""' , !- v . ?H
They never feel a neighbor's ill ' $ f . . rlM
Nor strive their lives to gladden. J$ -vV $ ITIH
But though its rife with sin and strife, S , ' 'M
If we the disposition h I At j jfH
To really try, both you and I, k it j. fH
Can better its condition. , :- j :1
The world today has given way . vV I ' A ? IJll
To all kinds of. delusion, - & &
And bids to be eventually w -' M i JH
A babel of confusion. ' . " ' v w4
From breeding strife, in daily life, v. iilH
And wilful defamation, y r ' TH
We must refrain if we retain - H
High Heaven's approbation. Jl
And may we fight with all our might- ' 'NH
This hatred of eachother , I f
And ever be in unity JM
As sister, friend and brother. j. t UB
Whate'er you do, be just and true v f 'WH
In every condition ; f E
Stand firm for right and win the fight I ,U JS
In spite of opposition. I- xm$
This world would be, to you and me, $ W
K A place of love and beauty, & mi
If we were all, both great and small, 4 J f ,
Agreed to do our duty. ' Wm yf
t An addage old that's often told "" raffl $"
As something to enthuse on, sHiM'
Says, "Falsehood vile will run a mile fl ' sSiiii;
Ere truth can pull its shoes on." ) mMaT'
And if, indeed, we could sueceeed r i
In being all united, v ' SaB
'Twould make of this, a world of bliss, I wmh
And wrongs would soon be righted. I .s Wmmi
L I IV
Arrivals at Southern Utah hospital:
Mr. Smith, son of M. and Mrs. Jamefl
Smith, born Sunday. April 9, n. m.
Miss Parry, a daughter of Mr, and
Mrs. James Parry, born Tuesday,
AyriUl. All tolnir nicaly,
Mr. A. W. Brouso. a former em-,...' m flfl
ployo of Tho Record, and who has -ffiH
been doing some mining and prospect- fa M&MI
ing in this locality,-announces bin In ti 1H1
tcntion of going to Piocho to work in flEMI
th immcdlaU futiu. 'MTmIII
' , ' ' IjikSBI
