THE RONAN PIONEER State listorical Society
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Rleservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post- T
office at Ronan. Montana, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 51. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, APRIL 21, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
THIRTY PERISH
IN RAIL WRECK
Bradford, R. I., April 18.-Thirty or
more persons are reported to have
been burned to death in a collision of
trains on the New York, New Haven
and Hartford railroad here. Wreck
ing and hospital crews are said to
have recovered thirty bodies.
The dead were in the rear car of a
four-coach local train, bound from
Boston to New London and which had
stopped at the local station, when it
was run down by the Giltedge ex
press, bound from Boston for New
York.
This coach was telescoped, set afire
and burned. The car ahead also took
fire and the flames, communicating to
the passenger station and freight
house, destroyed both buildings.
A hospital train came here from
N(-w London and Medical Examiner
M. H. Scanlon of Westerly, L. I., took
('barge of the search for the dead and
care of the injured.
it is said that there are known to
have been thirty-seven persons in the
destroyed car and that only seven of
th se had been accounted for several
hrl rs later.
The accident was due, it is believed,
to wrong signals or failure properly to
t1ad the signals.
DROWN WHEN WAGON UPSETS
7\inona, lniinn.. April IS.--Two more
lI:vc were sacrificed in the hich wa
01 of the Mississippi river. Within
f. feet of where our nmembers of the
( rogan family perished a week ago
.< sephine \Vierzorek, twenty-one years
c2. and Theodosia \Vieczorek. her sis
tr. nineteen, were drowned.
The younger girl had left her home
nmur Bluff Siding, Wis., across the
river from Winona, driving a corse
hitched to a light wagon. On the road
leading to the approach of the Winona
high wagon bridge she attempted to
turn the rig when she met her sister
returning from work in Winona.
The older girl wa.s assisting in lift
ing the wagon at the rear when the
horse become frightened. It backed,
shoving the older girl into the water
at the side of the road. Her sister
went down still holding the reins. Both
1cuties were recovered. The horse
a:so was drowned.
DUTY TO PUNISH HUSBAND
Chicago, April 18.-"It was my ob
ligation to society as a rescue worker
and the principles for which I stand as
a suffragist that brought me here to
seek the punishment of my husband.
It wasn't revenge or jealousy." So says
Mrs. Nora Perkins Jeanson, who came
from Brooklyn to Chicago and charged
that she found her husband, Edward
A. Jeanson, sharing an apartment with
a young woman. Mrs. Jeanson has
been awarded a court order for $6 a
week from her husband by Judge John
R. Newcomer in the court of domestic
relations and Jeanson's attorney has
enlered a motion for an appeal which
will be heard on Thursday.
ACCIDENTALLY KILLS NURSE
Reeder, N. D., April 18.-Mrs. Irene
Puarie of Slim Buttes, this county,
was accidentally shot and killed by
a young homesteader for whom she
ha-d been caring during an illness. The
patient and another young man had
quarreled during the day and in the
vvening, when the homesteader was
aroused from sleep by a noise just
outside the door of his home, he de
n.anded to know who was there. Re
ccilying no answer, and thinking it was
the man with whom he had quarreled,
he shot through the door and killed
I-rs. Pnarie. The coroner's jury ex
on-r.ted him.
MONTANA OFFICIALS RILED
Billings, Mont., April 18.-Montana
state officials are up in arms over the
wording of a call issued by the execu
tive of Utah for a conference of west
ern governors to discuss the alfalfa
weevil situation. The call avers that
the weevil is present in Utah, Idahoand
Montana. Montana state officials take
decided exception to this allegation, so
far as Montana is concerned, and point
to the fact that Montana quarantined
last year against alfalfa imports from
Utah. However, Montana will he rep
resented at the proposed meeting at
Salt Lake.
TERMS ARE MADE PUBLIC
London, April 18.-The foreign of
fice issued a statement for publication
in the British press announcing a set
tlement of the cases of the Chicago
meat packers arising from the seiz
ure of a number of their cargoes.
In addition to the Armour, Swift,
Hammond, Morris and Schwarzschild
& Snlzberger companies, the case of
the Cudahy company, which was rep
resented by British solicitors, is in
cluded in the settlement. The foreign
office statement says:
"The settlement provides that his
majesty's government, in considera
tion of a sum of money paid to the
packers, shall regulate the entire ship
mnent by the packers of all packing
house products to neutral European
countries during the continuation of
the war.
"The government considers this pro
visisin to be of importance."
GERMAN INFANTRY
ATTACKS REPULSED
London, April 18.-Again the Ger
mans have launched a powerful in
fantry attack against the French posi
tions extending from the River Meuse
to Douaumont and again they have
been swept back, except where they
obtained a footing in a small portion
of the Chauffour wood.
By the guns of the French heavy
casualties were inflicted on the at
tacking forces along the two and a
half miles battle front.
The Germans have kept up their
heavy shelling of Hill 204, northwest
of Verdun, and the second lines of the
French in this region, probably with
the intention of again throwing their
infantry forward in an endeavor to
capture these important points-keys
to the Verdun position on the west.
LUTHERANS WILL PROTEST
St. Paul, April 18.-A protest
against the "Address to the People of
the Allied Nations," which was signed
by 500 prominent, pro-ally Americans
and published in the entente coun
tries, is being circulated among the
2,000,000 members of the German Lu
theran church in the United States,
according to Theodore Buenger, presi
dent of Concordia college, a German
Lutheran theological institution in St.
Paul.
"German l~utherns are Americans,"
Mr. Buenger said. "They have obeyed
strictly President Wilson's neutrality
proclamation."
BRITISH WILL SEIZE COAL
London, April 18.-Neutral ship.
owners were warned by the British
foreign office that all cargoes or bunk.
ers of coal of German origin in neutral
ships will be liable to seizure under
the order in council of March 11.
The foreign office advised neutrals
to obtain certificates from British con
sular officers showing that the coal in
their ships did not originate in Ger
many.
Editors Will Meet
The thirty-first annual convention of
newspaper men of the state will meet
at Livingston the latter part of July.
At the close of the session a trip is
planed to the Yellowstone park where
they will meet the newspaper men of
Wyoming and eastern Idaho who have
arranged to be there at the same time.
PRESIDENT ONLY
KNOWS DETAILS
Washington, April iS.-Sixty-five
vessels have been reported officially
and unofficially as having been attack
ed without warning in the past few
weeks by Lerman submarines.
This, it was disclosed, will be one of
the statements in the note which the
United States government will send
to Germany.
Attacks without warning by sub
marines on merchant vessels since
Germany gave notice that ships car
rying guns would be considered as
vessels of war have been closely
studied by the president, with the re
sulting conclusion that promises
made by Germany have not been fol
lowed.
As soon as the president had finish
ed the communication to Germany he
directed that Senator Stone, chairman
of the senate foreign relations com
mittee, be invited to the White House
that he might be informed of the in
tentions of the administration.
Mr. Wilson himself was the only of
ficial familiar with the details of the
document, but it was learned authori
tatively that it is the most emphatic
and vigorous diplomatic paper the
president ever has approved.
It isn't always so-no, not always.
The after dinner speaker who lauds
his neighbor sitting at his right ex
pects a liberal return on his invest
l',, ofl n
NORTHERN PACIFIC SURVEY
COMES CLOSE TO RONAN
The Northern Pacific surveyors arriving last week established
headquarters in the Ronan hotel building and have been busily en
gaged all week running a new survey from a point on the old line
near Crow creek north, detouring to the east from the former sur
vey, and continuing north to an intersection with the old line at
or near Mud creek. The new survey brings the proposed line
within half a mile of the business part of Ronan and would be very
acceptable to all Ronan-providing, of course, that the road is
built on this survey and in the immediate future.
Little information can be secured from the surveyors and still
less from the company officials. All that is given out by the sur
veyors is that they had instructions to come to Ronan and locate a
new line from Crow Creek north, coming as near into town as the
topography of the country will permit and retain a proper grade.
It is learned from what appears to be good authority that the sur
veyors have been successful in finding a good grade and closing up
more than half the distance between the old line and Ronan.
But they are not through and it is possible that a route will be
located still to the east of the last one run, which would pass
through the townsite.
Rumers of all kinds are afloat as to the intentions of the
Northern Pacific. First we hear that the presence of the surveyors,
coming right at the time of the agitation for an electric road from
Missoula, is only a bluff to head off further efforts in behalf of the
electric road. Again it is rumored that the Northern Pacific means
business and proposes to complete the Flathead branch in ample
time to handle the 1916 crop shipments. Be that as it may, the
electric road boosters are not laying down and are even exerting
themselves to greater efforts, and we are informed with gratifying
success.
Another rumor, which we hardly give credit, is to the effect
that an agreement between the Northern Pacific and Great
Northern roads precludes the Northern Pacific from building
into Flathead county, that being designated in the
contract as Great Northern territory. In this event Ronan would
undoubtedly be the terminus of the 23 mile branch from Dixon.
Our people are skeptical about the Northern Pacific meaning
business, having been fooled so many times, and while they devoutly
hope that the appointed time has arrived for the building of the
Flathead branch of the N. P. they nevertheless feel that continued
efforts in behalf of the electric road are the proper thing at this time.
PRICE OF PAPER
GOESSKYWARD
A paper famine is threatened, judg
ing from the big jump the price of
paper has taken in recent weeks.
Those familiar with the paper industry
say that never before in the history of
the buniness has there been such a
shortage in paper making material as
at the present time, and never has the
price been so high.
One of the causes for the shortage
is said to be due to the fact that the
great quantity of old rags which were
formerly sold to the' paper-making
plants, are now being sold to the mu
nition factories.
At any rate the price of paper has
gone up several hundred per cent, and
only last week several Montana mer
chants were notified that an extra
charge for wrapping paper would have
to be made on packages sent by parcels
post.
But the print shops of the state will
be the hardest hit and unless relief
comes within a reasonable length of
time the chances are that certain brands
of paper will be unobtainable at any
price.
For instance, it is said that colored
and tinted paper will in a very short
time be practically off the market.
The common, ordinary print paper
which is used by the large daily and
weekly newspapers and which ordinarily
sell for three cents a pound, when it is
bought in big quantities, has advanced a
cent a pound, while ordinary book paper
which 60 days ago was $5.65 a hundred
weight is now $8.40 a hundred weight
and no orders will be taken with a
guarantee of delivery at that price.
Bond and enamel paper and the
higher grade of book paper which here
tofore cost from seven to eleven cents
a pound, has raised from 14 to 16 cents
a pound, and all orders taken are sub
ject to an advance in price without
notice.
There has also been a big advance in
the price of bindery material and the
price of ruling ink, and it is attributed
to a scarcity of the crude material, due
to a lack of imports or to the fact that
the munition plants have jumped the
price.
$50, 000 FIXED
BY CONFERENCE
On Friday last the Pioneer received a
telegram from Senator Henry L. Myers
stating in effect that the senate and
house conference committees had agreed
upon an appropriation of $750.000 for
the Flathead irrigation project and that
he is confident the senate will ratify
this action. If the house will do the
same we will get the full amount for
this year's work on the project.
The senate, through the efforts of
Senator Myers, has already passed the
bill appropriating $750,000. but there
has been and still is opposition in the
house to all appropriations for irriga
tion projects.
The fight is now up to John M. Evans.
The Flathead project being in Mr.
Evans' home county he would naturally
be expected to make this his main fight
but so far he has shown very little in
terest in the outcome. His future actions
will therefore be watched with interest.
It is sincerly hoped that he will take
off his coat and go in and win and there
is a feeling that with the assistance
Senator Myers will give him he can
win providing he does his share.
With an appropriation of $750,000
available this fall, work on the Flat
head project should advance to such an
extent that practically the entire valley
will have water for irrigation next
year. The supreme importance of the
early completion of this work to all
western Montana should be sufficient in
ducement to our congressman to enlist
his earnest support.
OREGON REPUBLICANS
FORCE HUGHES' NAME
Mandamus proceedings to compel
Secretary of State Ben W. Olcott to
put the name of Justice Hughes on the
ballot as a candidate for Republican
nomination for president, were institut
ed in the Oregon supreme court Monday
by Wallace McCammant of Portland.
The proceedings were instituted on be
half of the signers of a petition, which
was filed last week, asking that Mr.
Hughes' name be placed on the primary
ballot.
A hearing will probably be held be
fore the court Wednesday afternoon.
Justice Hughes objected to having his
name used but persons. signing the
petition contend that they are entitled
to vote for him regardless of his
wishes. The case is regarded as im
portant as it may set a precedent for
other states to follow.
Justice Hughes had already requested
Secretary Olcott not to permit the
placing of his name on the ballot when
the-petition was filed, but Secretary
Olcott in the face of threatened man
damus proceedings communicated with
him again. In reply Justice Hughes
sent a telegram last Saturday repeating
his objections and saying that he had
mailed a letter giving the reasons for
his refusal.
WILL FIGHT ONLY IN
CAUSE OF HUMANITY
Washington, April 1S.-President
Wilson, speaking before the Daughters
of the American Revolution here, de
clared the only excuse of the United
States ever to light would be in the
cause of humanity. Ills words were
applauded enthusiastically by dele
gates from all parts of the country.
Americaa will baave forgotten her
traditions, said the president, if she
fights mierily for herself and added
thatl the linited States must not light
ulder such conditions as would s&ow
it. had forgotten traditions. When
Amiuri'n ceases to be unsellish, lie
said, it will cease to le America.
"'Tradition is a handsome thing in
the proportion to which we live up to
it," declared the president. "Lint we
munt never fall below that tradition.
The birth of this nation was signilicant
bera use no other nation was ever born
in the world with the purpose of serv
ing the rest of mankind."
"If we fall away from the tradition
of the fathers we have dishonored
them. If we forget the tradition of
the fathers we have changed our char
acter; we have lost an old impulse:
we have become unconsecious of the
principles in which the life of the na
tion itself is rooted and grounded."
NAVY SHOOTING IMPROVES
Washington, April 18. -Vice Admir
I Mayo of the Atlantic fleet report
ed to Secretary Daniels that the ma
neuvers just concluded off ( anatana,
mo, Cuba, were the most successful
ever hell by the navy.
In target work, the admiral said,
marked efficiency was shown, excel
lent records being made with firing at
greater range than ever before at
tempted.
In every respect," he added, "the
shooting was the best the navy ever
did."
IMPORTANT COURT RULING
Washington, April I8.--The supreme
court so construed the various federal
safety appliances acts so that all em
ployis--no matter whether engaged at
the time in intrastate or interstate
commierce-- -may recover damages for
injuries occurring through failure of
interstate comimerce railroads to com
ply with the safety appliance laws.
It was regarded as a precedent mak
ing decision, giving safety appliance
laws a scope far greater than the fed
cral employers' liability law.
EVEN BIBLES COST MORE
New York, April 18.- The price of
bibles has increased and is likely to
advance still further because of the
war. Statements issued by religious
publication societies show that the ex
pense of publishing prayer books,
hymnals and other religions volumes
is so much larger than heretofore that
buyers have been obliged to pay near
ly double the prices of last year. This
Is due mainly to the advance in the
cost of paper, ink, leather and glue.
Iowa to Vote on Suffrage.
Des Moines, April 18.-Governor
Clarke of Iowa issued a proclamation
providing for the submission to the
voters of the state the constitutional
amendment providing for woman suf
frage at the primary election June 5,
1916.
More Troops Go
General Funston is sending General
Pershing more than 2000 additional
troops and there is reason to believe
that even more will be placed at his dis
posal if the campaign aginst Villa is
continued. The troops, which have
been ordered to Pershing's base at
Columbus, have been on duty along the
border.
DOUBT PREVAILS
IN MEXICO CITY
. ......+++........ + .**
+ Mexico City, April 18.-No +
+ messages have reached Mex- +
+ co City tending to confirm the +
+ report of the finding of the +
+ body of Villa, and the general +
+ disposition in official circles is +
+ to discredit the report. +
++++ ++++++++++++e
El Paso, Tex., April 18.-General
Gavira, Carranza commander at Jua
rsz, announced that the Mexican tele
graph wires between Juarez and Chi
huahua had been blown down near
Pearson and that for that reason he
was unable to learn any further de
tails of the reported discovery of the
body of Villa.
At the same time a telegram, filed at
Chihuahua City, presumably before the
interruption to the wire service, was
received from Consul Letcher, saying
that nothing was known in the state
capital regarding the finding of the
bandit's body.
These two circumstances combined
to reinforce the growing skepticism
here as to the truth of the story that
death has ended the career of the fugi
tive brigand.
The old story that the man who is
really dead is Pablo Lopez, the noto
rious butcher of Santa Ysabel, and
that Villa has deliberately used his
death as the basis of a false report
of his own decease, was revived.
This story was retold by an Ameri
can owner of a large ranch in the
Guerrero district, who said he had re
ceived it from his ranch foreman and
believed it to be true.
The confidence of Mexican officials
here and in Juarez that Villa is dead
has not, however, diminished, out.
wardly, at least.
+++++++++++++++..
+ .I. 2..-4 --+ .2 1 2 1 . 1. l '
+ SUMMARY OF CASUALTIES +
" IN MEXICO. :
+-- *l
+ Washington, April 18.-A re- +
+" capitulation of official reports +
+ of what the American expedi- +
"I" tion has accomplished and at +
+ what cost, other than financial, -I+
+. shows the following: +
*I* Villa bandits killed, seventy; +
*I" wounded, unknown; prisoners, d"
+ six. J.
+ American soldiers killed, +
+ three; wounded, thirteen; miss. +
"I" ing, one. +
"I" In addition, forty civilians or '
*. Carranza soldiers are reported +"
+I" to have been killed in the fight- +
+I. ing at Parral and an unknown &
4. number were wounded, "
+++++++++++++ ++
".-4. . 4.2 +.I . +. 4-.. 2 ".4 +". 4. 4.`.+I",
OFFICIALS WITHOUT NEWS
Washington, April 18.-Confirmation
of the death of Fancisco Villa still is
lacking, both at the state and war de
partinents and at the Mexican em
bassy.
The outstanding feature of the mes
sages from the border were reports to
the war department that six Mexicans,
who confessed to having taken part
in the raid on Columbus, N. M., had
been captured and sent to Columbus
for trial by the New Mexico state au
thorities.
Another official report relieved anx
iety as to the supply problem for the
troops at the front. It said the forces
now were fully supplied, with the ex
ception of a small shipment of horse
shoes and clothing, which would go
forward at once.
BRITISH SEAMEN ON STRIKE
'Tampa, Fla., April 18.-The thirty
five ruembers of the crew of the Brit
ish steamship Eretria, loading phos
phate for a French port, went on
strike when Captain L. C. Wright re
fused their demand for a 25 per cent
increase in wages. The British vice
consul ordered them to return to their
ship, but they refused. The men
claim the wages are too small for the
risks taken in the facing of subma
rines. /
DUTIES TO BE PAID IN GOLD
New York, April 18.-According to a
telegram received here by Juan T.
Burns, consul general for the de facto
government of Mexico at New York,
all duties on imports into Mexico after
midnight on April 30 will be paid In
national gold coin of that country.
School Board Meeting
The next meeting of the School
Board will be held at St. Ignatius,
Wednesday, April 26th, at 10:30 A. M.
Any persons wishing to consult the
board are invited to be present.
S. R. Logan, Clerk,
