The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
'r
ly
that he was preparing
is received over
our own leased wire.
VOL. 122. NO. 96.
WASHINGTON, AprU
:orpse Dug Up, Proved to be Remains of Just an
Ordinary Bandit and Not That of
the Man Sought.
HE IS ALIVE, MOUNDED AND FREE
r/'1" ^'-'u.. mrnmm—m—m—
CHIHUAHUA,
xpedition Has Been Halted Because of In
creased Opposition of Natives and
Danger of a Massacre.
Mexico, April 21.—, would require the use of all forces to
body, supposedly Villa's, proved! fight the Germans. Another article
to be his. The report that the! stated that Lansing was studying the
ndit leader's corpse had been ex- plans for an early withdrawal of the
med, was positively stamped as expedition and gave General Carranza
lse today by General Luis Gutlerrez» I credit for halting the American ad
ilitary commander here. This and vance through Mexico.
cial American reports that Villa The concentration of Carranza
in Durango state unwounded, troops south of Parral is apparently
ere disclosed together with a Car-1 to oppose the advance o£ United
nza order of April 15, prohibiting! States forces south of that point,
nited States aviators from flying'Mayor Jose De La L»uz Herrera of
er Mexican cities and barring the Parral was instructed to inform the
erican forces from using the Mexl-j American commanders not to ad
telegraph or telephone lines. I vance beyond Parral. General Luis
ores of slots were fired at the Herrera, whose brother-in-law, Col
merican who made a flight over the onel Orosco, was killed by American
Wednesday. troops in the Parral fight, has gone
Resentment of Mexican Boldiers and
-pulace against the continued pres
ce of American troops, Is becoming
•General- that Carranza military.
thorities say they will be unable to
ntrol the people unless the expedl
on is soon withdrawn.
Consul 'Letcher reported to Wash
gton that the Parral incident was
ot an isolated case. Other attacks
American troops by the inhablt
nts of Mexican towns, are believed
have occurred.
The bandit whose life was scared
hen he promised to point out Villa's
urial place, led the Carranza sol
iers to a grave but the body was
ot Villa's.
"I never did consider the report as
avtng any foundation," Said Gutler
ez. "In fact, I do not know whether
'ilia is dead or alive. For days I
ave been unable to secure any
eflnlte news of his whereabouts.'*
ports to Consul Letcher assert
at Villa probably was not in the
uerrera battle, where he was re
rted by the Carranza government
have been wounded.
A number of Americans Who came
ere
to investigate the reported death
nd identify his body if it was
rought here, were witnesses of the
attack on the aeroplane. Soldiers
fired volleys and even citizens un
loaded
revolvers at it. The aero­
plane was out of range of the
bullets.
The aviator at first appeared to be
seeking a landing place in Chihuahua,
but later fled in the direction of San
Antonio, Mexico. Officers announced
receipt of Instructions from Carranza
against American flight over cities
and prohibiting use of telegraph and
telephone lines. General Gutierrez
refused
to comment on the report
a
Wednesday's
protest of
flight.
Chihuahua newspapers already an
nounced the early retirement of the
American forces.
"El Democrata" printed a Wash
ington dispatch that the United States
has declared war on Germany and
21—
The ex­
treme seriousness with which the
German embassy regards the seizure
'n New York of papers in the keeping
of Wolf Von Igel, secretary to Cap
tain Von Papen, was revealed today
when the eighth demand for their re
torn was made to the state depart
ment.
Prince Hatzfeldt, counsellor of the
embassy, accompanied by an attor
ney, called at the state department
for that purpose. It became known
that this was the fifth time tfhe pa
pers had been asked Cor verbally
and that three written demands had
been mads on the state department.
Ambassador Von Berwtorff
1x1
New York todi^ presumably In
to Parral. Two thousand troops of
the Morelos and Juarez brigades have
reinforced the garrison there. Bathing Suit Styles.
to identify Villa, they were peltedUon
w,.h .to.es by -Ota M= IS and value.
youths. Gutierrez had the ring-|w
leaders arrested.
So far Gutierrez has demonstrated
himself master of the situation, buti
officers in his confidence say the!
presence of American troops in Mex-j
ico for another month, will result ini
serious conflict.
openly opposing the Americans."
Carranza troops are inactive in
the pursuit of Villa. They are too
FRANTIC APPEALS MADE
FOR THE GERMAN PAPERS
Documents Taken From Von
Igel's Office Are Evidently
Very Precious.
re
detachment of Carranzlsttus isi re-1
by General Benjamin Garza. Outier-, interview with
claimed Garza defeated Villistas
under Martin Lopez at Naica, killing
five and wounding many of the
bandits.
Chihuahua city's regular American
(Continued on page 2.)
connection with the same matter. The
home government has been advised
by wireless concerning the seizure of
the papers, but it is not known
whether any instructions have been
received by Bornstorff.
Whether the state's proposal that
all the Von Igel papers be submitted
to Bernstorff in order that he may
select from them those properly the
property of the embassy, will prove
acceptable to the ambassador, Is not
known. It was Indicated today he
might act on this suggestion, but his
consistent demand has been that he
be given all the papers, all the pho
tographs taken of them and the pho
tographer's plates.
Plot is Wide Spread.
NEJW YORK, April 21.—A nation
wide federal grand jury Investigation
af the activity of German agents, gov
ernment and private, in connection
with bomb plots is today in prospect
following the disclosures In the con-
(Ooatlaaed on ps«a 1),
Mr.
FRANCE
PARIS, April 21.—Following heavy
artillery preparations, the Germans
last night launched a powerful at
tack on a front of more than a mile
against French positions northeast of
Verdun.
The assault was directed against
French lines between Thlaumont and
the small lake near Vaux. South of
Oouaumont fort and north of thi3
I small lake, the Germans have suc
ceeded in entering the French lines,
but they were later repulsed by a
French counter attack, the war office
announced this afternoon.
The French captured a numtoer of
prisoners and two quick flrers ir
their successful counter attack.
Not only were the Germans re
pulsed with heavy losses In this at
tack, but the French advanced their
lines on both sides of the Meuse, in
a renewal of the fighting around Ver
dun.
On the west bank, in the region of
Dead Man's Mil, the French followed
up their successes In yesterday's
fighting by capturing a trench on the
edge of Caurette wood, capturing four
German officers and 150 men. On the
east bank of the Meuse, the French
made progress south of Haudromont,
rescuing several wounded French sol
diers and capturing twenty Germans.
MORE RUSSIANS LANDED.
PARIS, April 21.—Russian troops,
disembarking at Marseilles, probably
will not be seen in action on the
western front before another fort
night, it was stated here today.
For the present they probably will
remain in southern France. The
landing of troops continued today, ac
cording to Marseilles dispatches and
the city was gay with Russian colors.
Several Russian officers arrived in
Paris today and arrangements are
being made for receptions In their
honor.
One thousand United States cav- OHSCAGO, April 21.—Short skirts
alrymen under Colonels Brown and for the men and no skirts at all foT
Allen and Major Tompkins are re-j the women, were approved today by
ported conoentrated at Santa Cruz Chicago's beach censors as the official
De Vlesca, ten miles north of Parral. bathing costumes at the municipal
General Gutierrez is doing his ut-| beaches this summer.
most to prevent strained relations] The men's costumes, to be furnish
between the Carranza forces and the ed by the city, will include a brief
American forces, but is opposed by shirt-like skirt about the Jength of a
the Hen-era element and the senti
ment of the populace. Gutierrez has
appointed officers to accompany the
American newspaper men and has
granted them every protection. He
has placed Chihuahua under strict
military law. A heavy guard patrols
the city and a midnight "curfew" Found Ten Pearls.
law is enforced. However, when thej pw-u^TON ADril °1 (While
American newspaper correspondents! BOOTO^ April
arrived from Paso on the false tip
cannibal's grass apron. The women,
however, will wear bloomers and no
stockings.
"Just so they keep within the
limits of decency," bathers may fol
low their awn fancy," is the edict.
The soldiers are already murmur
ing against the American troops,"
said Lieutenant Colonel Efraln Ixpez
Castro. "This will soon spread to thej
officers and when it does, it is likely [By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press
to result in the Carranza soldiers Staff Correspondent.]
eating
openej one from whIch popped
of New
nur|| Two of them werQ 0 f.iay.
[Copyright 1916 by the United Press.]
[Copyrighted in Great Britain.]
BERLIN, April 20.—(Via wireless
busy keeping a close watch on the to Tuckerton, N. J., April 21.) Ger
expeditlonary forces. Only one small many can go no further in her sub
5 nf r»7T»n7tBta.q (o
marine concessions to the United
gtateB
Sa*?«W*",
Admiral Von Holtzendorff, starving Kjciumuy luiu
ported In chief of the German admiralty staff the longer they cling on and prolong
flutter-i
'Many of our submarines have re
turned from rounding up British ves
sels. They sighted scores of passen
ANIL CONSTITUTION-IKMOCRAT.
KEOKUK, IOWA, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916
VILLA RAID AS
Recent M&ss&crs at OolUmDUS
is to be Subject to
aNew Investi
gation.
INFORMATION EXPECTED
When Expedition Returns, Captured
Bandits May be Able to Give
Out Some Important
Testimony.
WASHINGTON, April 21.—An In
vestigation of alleged German con
nection with the Villa raid at Colum
bus is awaiting the return ot the
American expedition from Mexico, it
was learned on 'nigh authority today.
The fact that the investigation
awaits the
Teturn
The Von Der Goltz statement pub
lished today has been investigated
thoroughly by the department of jus
tice. Its contents are well known to
the state department and are report
ed to have played a large part in the
suddenly abrupt attitude of this gov
ernment toward German consular
and other officials.
Sailors Return to Work.
BOSTON, Mass., April 21.—Officers
and enlisted men of the United States
navy, absent on leave of furlough,
were returning to the Charlestown
navy yard today, following the re
ceipt of orders from Wasljjngton.
Thirty odd warships, a record num
ber, are no\T at the yard, every avail
able berth being filled. Rear Ad
miral Dauss is in command of t'ne
auxiliary fleet.
An authoritative statement was re
ceived from the navy yard this after
noon to the effect that no emergency
orders have been received to get the
ships ready for duty, althougn about
7,000 men are at work preparing the
thirty vessels for their annual spring
cruise.
Eight Days on Stand.
CHICAGO, April 21.—Cross exami
nation of William Lorlmer, former
United States senator, on trial here
on bank wrecking conspiracy charges,
was concluded shortly before noon to-
This concluded Lorimer's eighth
I day on the stand.
It Would be Insanity to
Break With United States
war
the
United Press today.
"But remember," said the German
naval head later, during the course
of the interview, "that we have no
desire for a break with the United
States. That would De insanity. We
shall not bring it about, despite our
desire to push vigorously our subma
rine warfare.
"We did not sink the Sussex," -said
Admiral Von Holtzendorff. "I 'am as have respected every one of them, so
convinced of that as of anything far. and they have met scores in the
which has happened in this war. if North sea, the channel and
you could read the definite instruc- lantic.
tions, the exact orders each subma- "If diplomatic relations with Amer-|
rine commander has, you would un- ica are broken, our submarines
derstand 0... the torpedoing of tho
amc
9&T
sor .hip. Boins Eogl.nd and SIU" to
America, but not one of these was
™Twiu.d1,»h
marine war
touched, although we know every one American neo-
of them was carrying war munitions! „tn5t w.!
for the allies.
"We have definitely agreed to warn
the crews and passengers of passen
ger liners. We have lived up to that
promise in every way, but we cannot
be asked to regard freight ships in
the same
border for
"I speak in a straightforward man
ner. We could have destroyed hun
dreds of thousands of tons of enemy
ships since the beginning of the sut
marine war, except for the promises
we gave the United States,
cannot go further.
"Five months more will see what
we can do to British shipping.
ring around the British Isles
to regard freight ships in ^n Fn,zland even bvTrotect"
any belligerent nation. l!
manner. This is beyond the!!0 shiD^ wfth A^S- ?erTnal,y-
8
The the liability, not Germany.
"will 1 "Germany Is at war with England,
die
of the punitive ex­
pedition Is understood to be caused
py expectation that bandits captured
will give valuable information.
grow tighter and tighter. Then we iGermany must attack England's life
shall see whether England will still
maintain that she cannot make peace
until Germany is destroyed. The al
lies could have had peace long ago,
but they still cling to the idea of
starving Germany to submission.
The longer they cling to the idea of
starving Germany into submission,
^he greater will be their bill.
What I said about freight ships,
applies only to enemy freight ships.
We are not going to torpedo and we
have not torpedoed without warning
or without examining the ships'
papers or crew, any neutral ship, de
spite reports which the enemy is
spreading. We are not out to tor
pedo without warning neutral ships
bound for England. Our submarines
BERLIN, April 21.—Repulse of
__ French attacks on the northern and
northeastern fronts of Verdun, was
announced by the war office thii
afternoon
The French attacked vigorouslf
north of Verdun on the east bank cl
the Meuse in an attempt to recap
ture the stone quarry 6outh of Haud
romont village, but were beaten off
Another enemy attack in the Caun
ette woods further east also broke
down.
Fighting for French trenches south
of Fort Douaumont continued
throughout last night.
In the Woevre region and southeast
of Verdun artillery engagements are
going on.
FIGHTING CONTINUES.
BERLIN, April 21.—French troeps
have penetrated German trcnches in
Caurette wood In a heavy attack, but
elsewhere on the Verdun front all
French attacks have been repulsed,
the war office announced this after
noon. The Germans are counter at
tacking against the Caurette wood
positions and the fighting continues.
In the region of Dead Man's hill, the
French were repulsed with very
heavy losses.
ATHENS, April 21.—German fliers
bombarded a British camp at Tene
dos Wednesday, causing several casu
alties, according to advices received
here today.
Unmasked Bandit.
SHREVEPORT, La., April 21.—An
unmasked bandit early today shot Ex
press Messenger' L. C. Phillips of
Shreveport robbed the express car
of the Louisiana Railroad arid Navi
gation company's train No. '2, remain
ed in the car for an hour and escaped
when the train pulled into Alexan
dria, according to reports reaching
here.
Phillips was taken to a hospital at
Alexandria, where physicians report
ed his wound is not serious. The
amount of the bandit's loot Is un
known.
The train was bound from New Or
leans to Shreveport. According to
advices received in railway circles
here, the bandit boarded the car a
e«m.y rt''P without SS.tlSrToy h.Si
..... „V Xr nSlttd f«lr or not. who„ aiy ,f!
fare. new submarines warfare, so far. he|
71 more
was
wjtij energy
18
E?£ll9h freight ships with Amer ,w[th energy. Every word carries covered and stndents
risky to travel on the seas to and feels he is speaking out instead of ways,
from England today. They mu.-t
watch the ship's character. If Bng
but we land boasts her mastership of the
seas and her rule of the waves, she
must accept the responsibility and
NEXT
Mansura, La., 153 miles south ot followed and that in addition, leading
Shreveport and jumped off just as thej members of the reichstag will be in
train pulled into Alexandria station.
Railroad employes attempting to de
liver American Express parcels to
the car broke in and found Phillips
on the floor, it was reported.
nerve, which is her shipping. We
have means through our submarines
to do this and we must go ahead.
England is the one responsible for
American lives on her freight ships. ^German "fire brand"
We cannot warn Americans on board
any more than we can send word to
neutrals who may be in enemy
trenches before we attack. It is the
same situation on the seas exactly,
and still we know that all passenger
ships now going to England carry
war munitions, not necessarily am
munition on- shells, but. articles which
are much more necessary to help
England continue tho war."
"Has Germany lost any submarines
since March 1 (the date when the
new submarine campaign against
armed merchantment. opened) I asked.
"Yes," was th© frank reply.
"Do you know how they were
lost?" Admiral Von Holtzendorff was
No, we don't always hear when
one of our submarines is lost. We
-j
w- official shortly after midnight,
whole
bo1'
hand to make an impression.
During the entire interview he sat
erect in his tea chair, his eyes di
rectly on the interviewer, "his re
arks coming suddenly, with a punch,
ce shots from a cannon.
ka-«|
yCj*'
vited to express their views.
the approval of the
without
can congress, which
THE WEATHER
Pair and warmer tomorrow.
Local temp—7 p. m. 53 7 a. m.
42.
MIWIIH lit
It Will be End of Next Week Before Answer
Will be Sent to America on Sub
marine Warfare Dispute.
NEWSPAPERS SAY SHE WILL NOT YIELD
Call it Wilson's Bluff and His Personal Views
Which are Not Expected to Lead to
Diplomatic Break.
BERLIN, April 21.—President Wil
son's demand that Germany abandon
her submarine methods under I enalty
of a diplomatic break, was conveyed
to the kaiser and the people of Ger
many today.
The text of the note, which was de
livered to the foreign office at 6:30
last night by Ambassador Gerard
a a a a
headquarters for the emperor's imme-l What "Immediate' Weans,
dlate perusal. Several hours later it ['By Robert J. Bender, United Press
was circulated throughout Germany Staff Correspondent.]
by the official news agency and WASHINGTON, April 21.—What
printed in today's papers. the United States government de-
The newspapers thus far have mands of Germany is to stop Its,
made no comment. present submarine campaign against
Because today Is Good Friday, it merchantmen immediatly. When this
is practically impossible to obtain lis done, the way will be clear to set
any official expression from tho tie the question of how boats may
foreign office. It was indicated last proceed against commerce without
night that no comment would be
made until Chancellor Von Beth
man n-iHollweg returns from his East
er visit to the kaiser, probably on
Monday.
There is little likelihood that any
reply will be sent to Washington be
fore the end of next week. Since the
submarine controversies with Ameri
ca began, it had been customary to
summon into conference, heads of the
marine department and loading bank
ers and business men before a reply
was sent to Washington. It is prob
able that this course will again be
Says Will Not Yield.
AMSTERDAM, April 21.—German
newspapers, commenting in advance
of President Wilson's statement to
congress, declared that Germany
would never yield to the United
States, preferring to face another
enemy without, than an internal
crisis in the reichstag.
The Vosslsche Zeltung assured its
readers that there was no serious
danger of a break whatever over
President Wilson's personal views.
since he could take no derive step ,,stf)
Ameri-|,lo,
any action that might lead to war.
"Germany will never yield to
America because of President Wil
son's bluff," sairl Count Von Revent
the
Zejt
,.The
Zeltung. "The best methods
of advertisement, of which President
Wilson is a master, wear thin In
time. When the sword of Damocles
remains too long suspended, all can
see that it is only a wooden one."
"If the Washington gentlemen be
lieve that wo in Berlin have nothing
more important to do than to investi
gate whether any darkey cattle drlv-
Ragged in Business District"
During Night.
I
IOWA CTTY. Iowa, April 21-
_.
ple want to decla ga •_ emy tons were destroyed by sub-1 destroyed the old St.. James hotel andjeident. There was much confusion
many for the way marines and mines on enemy coasts," several business Arms and endanger-1 during the fire and for a time William -,,
her submarine war now aont
than 200,000 en- causing an estimated loss of $3.=r,000, posed to have started the Are by ac-
the response. the lives of a number of state nni- I/ong. of Des Moines, and Frank Spurr
think America. wajuts Admiral Von Holtzendorff is filled versity students in the hotel, novr of Oreston were missing for two hours! ?'S
land. I don trunk tne American peo-^
pie want_ to do eyerytnirig^ tnej can talk.s. he is the most serious official shortly after midnight. The fire was ma B. Johns and Mega Baust, domes
hotel when (lis- tics, in the hotel, were carried to safe-"s-Sf
and hotel em-, ty blankets by Hal Short and Frank
ican lives. jconvirtion because he speaks sojployes fled down fire escapes, over Sook. Iowa City boys. «£,?'-
vibrates well under way in the
"People must remember that it is frankly, so unhesitatingly that one roofs and through smoke choked stair-1 Many students lost all their clothing it't
feels he is speaking out instead of ways. De Villo Bannister, of Shelby, land today are wearing garments loan
Jotting down his thoughts before! Iowa, fought his way to the room of ed by friends until they can hear from1*
and spirit. When he known as the Iowa Union house. but at dawn were reported saved. "Em- -'s'SJ
Vincent McXurlin. a paralytic and
carried him down a fire escape to safe
ty.
Maurice Canada, of Elkader. jumped
from the fourth floor window, alight
iag on a roof -and then jumped again
Wl
TEN PAGES
er had a lock of his precious crlnky
lialr ruffled while crossing to*
Europe, then the people in the whit®
house are terribly mistaken," said ,:
the Berlin Post. "If Germany should
climb down, serious trouble is bound
to come from within and Germany's
leaders prefer to have it come from
without."
further endangering relations be
tween the two countries.
This was made clear tod*y in point
ing out that the United States will
not be satisfied with assurances that
Germany will operate her submarines
within the bounds previously drawn—•
namely giving adequate warning andi
assuring safety to passengers.
Germany's present campaign must'
be discontinued until the two govern
ments can arrive at a decision as to?.
»just what constitutes a practicable
and legal boat warfare against
commerce.
By "immediate" stopping of Its
present campaign, Germany has been
told this government means within
such time as is sufficient fo» sug
marine commanders to be notified.
Grave danger now lies In a possible
submarine attack. Such an attack on
a neutral vessel, particularly if an
American life were jeopardized would
be critical. It would then have to be
shown clearly and rapidly that the
German commander had failed to re
ceive his orders or a brpak, it is be
lieved, would be practically automatic.
Has Broken Ankle.
MADISON. Wis.. April 21.- -Harold
wlRCOnsin 3
^r
1oH „.«•£.
Is laid up here today with a broken
ankle, caused when'he fell from a
horse. Huston was one of the main
point getters for the Badger school
and it is feared his injuries will keep
him out all spring.
Killed His Wife.
CHICAGO. April 21.—Bruno Kam
insky. night watchman, shot and
killed his wife early today, following
a brief quarrel. Kaminskv gave him
self up to the police. The oncers
found Mrs. Kaminsky's twof young
children beside the body and cal.'ing
for their mother to speak to them.
IOWA CITY HOTEL FIRE
ENDANGERED STUDENTS' LIVES
LOSS Of $350,000 When Blaze
to the street. His feet and ankles
were seriously injured.
Wayne Foster, of Wellman, Iowa,
captain of the foot ball team, and C.
O. Powers, of Cedar Rapids, were the
last students out of the building, es
caping in their pajamas. Their feet
were burned: Students in the kitchen
•Fire,! hunting for a midnight lunch are sup-
home. The losses, besides the hotel
are stocks of the Wlenke arcade. O.
H. Fink cigar store, the University
book store and The Denter supply
company. The Coast clothing star*'
was damaged.
'K'/
p0]e vaultrr
"1
-1
4
