COUNTY
it 11 II I i II II I im.
VOL XXXIII NO 2
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY APRIL 21 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
OUR PUBLIC FORUM
L
I
l
i
u.-..lL-iii'.iLtij
Peter Radford
ON ADVERTISE IT IN AMERICA.
As a citizen of this nation and cms Intensely Inter
ested in Us material development, I want to add my ap
proval to the "Buy It in America" movement Commer
cial patriotism and business pride are the foundation
stones of success in Industry and no country can become
supreme in commerce and trade unlet it fosters a spirit
of friendship and partiality for its own products and Insti
tutions. It is the spirit of the hive that makes the
wheels of Industry turn and each community should be
a progressive unit in our industrial universe: All things
being equal the farmer should patronize the local mer
chant, who is always a good citizen, a heavy taxpayer
and Mend of the farmer. The farmer sends shiploads
of raw material to foreign markets and factories that
meet on their way vessels laden with finished and foreien
grown products coming to America. Any eKort to minimize this economic
waste ought to be encouraged.
But as a farmer and friend of the manufacturer and merchant I want to
suggest an "Ad vertise It In America" movement The manufacturer and
Jobber may blow loud blasts on the horn of patriotism but if they will put
an "ad" In the newspapers in their trade territory, making a business presen
tation of their goods, they will find it far more effective than waving the
Star-Spangled Banner. The farmer is as much interested in the price of the
things he has to buy as in the price of the things he has for sale and the
advertising columns of his newspaper are his price list. The price is the thing
and the farmer wants the figures in cold type. The politicians give him all
the patriotic buncombe he cares for. Business enterprise is a far more suc
cessful salesman than business patriotism.
There are many most worthy organizations working to promote commerce
and trade but we seldom find organized effort to promote the press, yet it is
recognised as the most powerful agency for progress the world has ever pro
duced. We hate all sorts of days calculated to promote business and honor
industry such as Trades Days, Bargain Days, Labor Days, eta; why not
have a press day and all business concerns advertise the things they have
to sell and everybody subscrlbo for the local papor and all delinquents pay a
year In advance T There Is nothing so elevating in civilization as the smile
of an editor and nothing will contribute more toward the welfare of a com
munity than the prosperity of the press.
The farmer is a friend and patron of the newspapers. He subscribes for
the local paper and reads every line in it and it is the best investment he
can make. There is no news so valuable as store news; no information so
Interesting as market demands; no tragedy so entertaining as the rise and
fall of prices and no page more closely studied by the farmers than the adver
tising columns of the press.
WILLIS SELECTED
Governor Frank B. Willis Chosen by
Senator Burton to Present His
Name to The Republican National
Convention at Chicago in June.
STUDYING UPPER AIR
WITH AID OF KITE
To assist the Weather Bureau in
Former United States Senator,
Theodore E. Burton, has chosen Gov
ernor Frank B. Willis of Ohio to pre
sent his name to the Republican Na
tional Convention in Chicago, in June,
as a candidate for the Republican
Nomination for president. The honor
conferred upon Ohio s governor as
great because of the fact that Ohio
is looked upon by other states of the
Union as the pivot state. All eyes
are upon Ohio. Ohio's favorite son,
Senator Burton, is one of the foremost
candidates for the presidency. His
strength is not only in his own state,
but in bast and West as well. His
great record in Congress makes him
one of the most formidable candi
date and many of the newspapers, and
other periodicals of the bast and
West concede that he will be a com
manding figure in the convention,
while many of them express it as
their opinion that he will be the nom
inee.
Not only is Governor 'Willis honor
ed by having been selected to name
Burton to the convention, but anotuer
Ohioan has been chosen lo sound the
keynote of the convention, as tempor
ary chairman. This is Senator War
ren G. Harding of, Marion. His selec
tion was unanimous, and ne is being
looked upon to give to the people of
the Nation, the Republican view of
the coming campaiora.
Ohio, therefore, must put her Dost
foot forward in the coming April
primary. Not only must she give
Senator Burton a big vote in the
presidential preference ballot, but
she must give to Senator Hardin? and
Governor Willis and to Will-am Coop
er Proctor and Hon. John J. Sullivan,
a vote which will be a credit to the
KMrtTtNol JtsMsMsMsi
I V" I
There's No Place
Like Home
MANY YOUNG MEN
UNFIT FOR WAR
Unable to Pass Physical Ex
amination.
CAPTAIN PINKSTON'S FIGURES
YOUR HOME IS IN THIS TOWN
If yon are asked you will declare that you're
STRONG FOR THE HOME
ACTIONS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS
Patronize the local merchant
READ THE HOME PAPER
IS
Office Men Often Pay Penalty of In
door Grind.
iron wheels supporting a lifting post state and to the Republicans arty. To
and drawn by a long bent handle maintain the standing in the a nven-
which has a wheel on a swivel near tion which will be accorded to Ohio.
making its forecasts, and also to en- ,ts bend.' A lever for raising and her delegates must Le t;ivj.i the -in-
able a systematic study of the me- I lowering the post, about 30 in. long, qualified endorsement of the rtpunh
chanics of the upper atmosphere, the projects from the jack parallel with can voters of the state. '."lie party
government has established an areo-!tne handle, to raise a car the jack, must stand together as a unit. Jhese
logical station near Elk City. Ne- previously aajusiea, is roiiea unaer candidates for delegate at large nave
braska. The May Popular Mechanics 1 the ax'e the curved end of the been endorsed by nearly ry mm-
Magazine gives an account of the lever turned up. By pressing this ty and district in the state. They
work being done there. Conditions j down the axle is raised so that if de- are the big men of Ohio whom the
prevailing at elevations up to approxi-1 sired the low-lying handle can be Republicans want to represent them
matelv two mV heinc ilpUrmin. d awn back under the wheels. The at this historv making convention.
ed by means of self-recordin" in-rr- jdavice can easily be made to do the The attention of republican stars
ments attached to box kites which worK turntable, r or towing a is called to the fact that there is a
are flown regularly. j disabled car on a thoroughfare a presidential preference ballot to be
straigiit nanne is suDstituted and a voted and that Hon. rneod re Hi.
special top and clamp are fastened Burton's name is the only Repubb rn
to the post by which the axle is held name on the ballot for president. Tho
firmly in position. From the May names of Governor Willis, Senator
Harding, Mr. Proctor and Mr. Sullivan
will be on a separate ballot, for dele
gate at large. The primary is April
25, and it is the duty of every Repub
lican to vote.
In the past our weather predictions
have been based upon observations
made at the ground, or in the lower
strata of air. The place where storms
originate, however, is in the zone ly
ing between ons snd three miles above
the earth. The inaccuracies of fore
casts are due largely to the observer's
ignorance of conditions existing In
the actual storm region. By having a
fairly continuous record of the wind
velocity, temperature, barometeric
pressure, and humidity of the upper
air. a forecaster has quite complete
data from which to make accurate de
terminations. It is primarily for the
purpose of collecting information of
this kind and obviating the greatest
chances for mistakes in weather pre
dictions, that the kite-flying station
is being operated.
JACK AND TOWING TRUCK
FOR AUTOMOBILES
A combination jack and towing
truck for automobiles has been in
vented which consists of two 10-in.
Popular Mechanics Magazine.
Dangers of Draft.
Drafts feel best when we are hot
and perspiring, just then they are
most dangerous and the result is
Neuralgia, Stiff Neck, Sore Muscles
or sometimes an attack of rheuma
tism,
Liniment
to the sore and painful part.
b'ood flows freely ' and in a short
time the stiffness and pain leaves.
OBITUARY.
The deceased Lydia Benfield, daugh
tit : 1 1 : i n 1 1 r i r .1
Jn .). onnlv Slnn' ler ul " """" B,lu "'J
rpi I livAUiiiUf xuuitiim. was uuiu iocjj ccm-
On October J.3th, 1895, she received
T T T 1 J ,..U
Those suffering from Neuralgia or teeyJT3 old she was instructed in
Neuralgic Headache will find one or the doctrines 0f the Christian church
two application of Sloan's Liniment a ....... a
I . , - . .. - . i ttiiu waa biiua uicuaxcu ivi t-uiiuiiiia-
w... g.ve Krueiui reuei. ine agoniz- tion which took place in the Lutheran
inisT uain icive way to a tingling sen- i.v, - r;0;iio v, tu J f
quiet rest and sleep is possible. Good
Tor Neuritis too. Jfrice 25c at your
Druggist.
We can't all be devotees of the
great out-of-doors, and so the office
men and women too often pay the
penalty of the all-day grind at the
desk.
There comes in many cases the slug
gishness that is bred of physical in
activity and the aliments that mark
the indoor man for their own.
To say "I feel gool all over" is to
speak the acme of content, and when
this is supplemented by a steady,
healthy increase in weight after a
long period of suffering, the fortunate
man usually feels that he wants to
share his good luck with the less for
tunate "other fellow."
It is this spirit that prompts so
many prominent business men in
every community to endorse Tanlac.
Tanlac assists nature to throw off de
pression and in its place to stimulate
the system, with the result that en
ergy and vigor return
That "tired feelinir" means a erood
deal more than is generally realized, j dren's program during
It is one of the symptoms of a more
serious condition. It is not laziness,
it is a physical aliment that needs cor
rection before it takes a firm hold on
you. The results of the Tanlac treat
ment are amazing.
Tanlac tends to make tired out, list
less persons sturdy and of real man
hood and womanhood like those old
fashioned but most sensible folks
the pioneers.
As a tonic, appetizer and mvieor-
OTTOKEE ITEMS.
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Ledyard enter
tained the following at Sunday din
ner: Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Norris and
sons Charles and Frank of Delta and
Dr. O. L. Norris of Deshler.
Walter Rockwell went to Toledo
Sunday where he will take a position
in tne uveriand.
barah Rockwell and familv of
Henry county spent Sunday with her
son Louis and family.
Miss Pearl Heckman and friend of
loledo spent Sunday at Jacob Lein
inger's. .
Will Clark and family spent Sun
day at Dick Shadle's.
Roll Frazier and wife spent Sunday
at man tiones .
Walter Leininger and family ac
companied by Harold Guilford and
Orvule Markley were in Tedrow Sun
day.
Rollo Myers of Attica. Ohio, took
dinner Tuesday with H. C. Guilford
and family. He will begin work on the
road west of Tedrow the first of May.
the Gleaners Sewing Circle will
meet with Mrs. H. H. Hough Thurs
day April ztn.
The stork visited the R. E. Larned
home Monday afternoon and left a
Doy.
Mrs. Charlie Shadle is under the
care of a trained nurse with a severe
case of pneumonia.
.Plans are being made for a chil-
the lecture
. hour at the Gleaner's meeting Tues-
uay nignt.
School will close Friday with a pic
nic uinner.
Of 41,168 Men Examined Only 3,833
Were Accepted as Physically Fit
For Government Service Medical
Men Give as One Reason That Vi
tality Has Qeen Sapped by Alcohol
and Excesses Caused by Drink.
New York. (Special.) Discussion
cf probable, war has aroused Interest
In a table prepared by Captain L. P.
Pinkston of the United States marine
corps staff, stationed in this city. The
table shows that of all applicants for
enlistment the country over last year,
only 9.31 per cent were accounted
physically fit for government service.
This Is an average of one man in each
eleven examined.
In all districts of the country 41.16S
wen were examined, and of this num
ber but 3,833 were accepted.
Of the 11,012 applicants examined
In this city, only 316 were accepted
for enlistment. In Baltimore, 1,786
were examined and 183 accepted.
Cleveland, 2,812 examined and 173 ac
cepted. Cincinnati, 1,165 examined
and 199 accepted. In Chicago, 4,443
were examined and 434 accepted. In
San Francisco, 2,732 were examined
end 224 accepted.
This is the startling condition which
confronts the United States. When
it comes to real preparedness, men
are of far more moment than money.
There is plenty of mcney in the coun
try, but Captain Pinkston 's figures are
just cause for alarm when men are
considered.
Medical men in and out of military
circles are not slow in detailing the
causes of the physical unfitness of so
many young Americans. One of these
reasons is that alcoholic liquors and
the excesses which many of those
ho drink are prone to Indulge in
saps the vitality of the young man
hood o? the country.
Captain Pinkston's statistics are
causing mush concern. England faced
the same trouble when she engaged
in the present war. Drink had undr-
PRINTING"!
i
Cl
UST as a man is often judged
oy nis ciotnes so a business is
often judged by the character
of the printing it uses.
IHEN you need Printing for
any purpose, the only kind
worth while is the kind that
is built to exactly fit its pur
pose. It should not be overdone
or underdone, either case is a waste
of money.
h.r
ET us heb
proper fit
Should Not Feel Discount v-m!
So many people troubled with indi
gestion and constipation have been
benefited by taking Chamberlain's Th-
lets that no one should feel discourag- mined the strength and virility of
eu wno nas not given them a trial. many ot her young men. If only one
They contain no pepsin or Other di- out of eleven aimHoants f.ir urn-ins in
ant. nothing ever has been discovered ff stive ferments but strengthen the this ccuntry are found fit, our real
that will compare with Tanlac. It ' ?m).ach and . ena,b' it to perform its fighting strength is greatly weakened.
minus new tissues, vitalizes the blood, i j",". aaie Dy ail A large proportioii of saloon patrons
H rid hpt.k sn TsiTnrnnnr nn a l monro , .
the stomach, liver and kidneys, and
catarrhal atrections of the mucous
membranes
Satisfied users of Tanlac
NORTHWEST DOVER
Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Scott call-
l ed on Mr. and Mrs. Henrv Fieldmire
wHbiduvu u.'v-i ui lauuib nave , , -
nroven to he Tunlnc'a hest. nHverfiso i Sunday afternoon.
Men and women, from the highest to' -fJ18,3,.0??; ?ailey sPent Sunday
the lowest walks of life, everywhere .MlSS naze Bowers.
are testifying daily to the relief Tan- ult 8 number from this vicinity
lac has brought them. No other rem- we wauseon callers Saturday.
in the United States are under 30
years of age. It is the young men
who are being ground through tlie
poloon mill. Drink renders den unfit
for military duty as well as for the
general duties of citizenship.
200 SALOONS CLOSED
Don't Walk
'inauiiiaiintPtaMwi
la
m '""""CSJ ' ItllgP'" ll-'t'-l WHUWffli?.
April 1909, and thus became a mem
ber of said church.
On the 20th day of March she was
united in marriage with Mr. Frank
Benfield. Her married life however
was of short duration; she became
sick about three weeks ago and last
Sunday morning she took her last
breath. The body was sent to the home
of Mr. Wolf, three and one half miles
north of Pettisville, where funeral
services was held and also in the Luth
eran church at Pettisville. Tuesday
April 18th, 1916. Rev. P. Kluepfel,
who had baptized, instructed and con
firmed the departed young sister, con
ducted the services. Interment took
place in the Lutheran cemetery at
Pettisville.
She arrivecKat an age of twenty
years and seven months. She leaves
besides her husband, her parents three
brothers and four sisters.
No, no, it is not dying,
Heaven's citizen to be;
A crown immortal wearing
And rest unbroken sharing,
From care and conflict free.
A good one may cost more at first
btit it saves you money in the end.
Bicycle Tires
and everything for the bicycle at
Raymond's
Bicycle Store
218 North Fulton Street, Wauseon, 0.
edy has won such endorsements, that
can only come from superlative merits
lanlac is being especially intro
duced in Wauseon, Ohio, at the Fink
Haumesser Drug Store where the
Tanlac Man is daily explaining it
and the results that may be expected
from its use.
Tanlac may be obtained in Fayette,
at the King Drug Store; Bryan, Cul
berson Drug Co.; Napoleon, J. S.
Schaff.
Now is the time to rennish
your old floors
If your floors are beginning to look dull and worn, a
coat or two of iw
will give them new life and beauty. Vernicol
is attractive, non-fading and easy to apply.
Does not show heel marks and can be washed
with soap and water. Come in and we will
show you how Vernicol makes old floors look
like new.
Brigham, Guilford & Company
Wauseon, Ohio
GRAIN LOADER DOES WORK
OF HARVEST HANDS
A -labor-saving agricultural ma
chine, described in the May number
of Popular Mechanics Magazine, dis
penses with harvest hands employed
in the field in loading grain to be
stacked or to supply a threshing ma
chine. It is called a shock loader and
will fill a wagon rack in less than two
and a half minutes. It weighs 2,800
lb., is drawn by four horses, and is
operated by the driver alone. The
principal parts of the machine are the
"pickers" and three carriers. The
pickers, whose position is analogous
to that of the -cutting knives on a
binder, lift the bundles of grain and
deposit them on a carrier by which
they are transferred to a - horizontal
carrier at the rear; from this the
grain is raised on an inclined elevator
and dropped into wagons which move
alongside the machine. The pickers
are 6-m. spies fastened to a 6-ft. steel
bar. They grasp the bundles and the
turning of the bar deposits them on
the carrier. The pickers also gather
up the loose grain about the shocks.
A 20-m. drive-wheel operates the car
riers, pickers, etc. The machine will
do the work of several men pitching
bundles in the field and can load six
wagons fast enough to supply a
threshing outfit as rapidly as 12 wa
gons can under the old method. This
loader is also used advantageously in
loading alfalfa, for it does not shake
off the dry leaves, as is done in hand :
loaaing.
RACK DISINFECTS PENCILS
FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN
Lead pencils are germ carriers
which may transmit disease, especial
ly to children, most of whom have the
habit of putting pencils in their
mouths. A New Jersey inventor has
devised a disinfecting rack to guard
against this danger. This rack con
sists of a square metal frame, or case,
about three inches deep. In its top
are small holes through which pencils
may be inserted. Beneath the top is
a tablet of clay composition in which
are depressions corresponding to the
holes above. Into these the pencil
ends project, without touching the
clay, and are disinfected by formalin
gas exuding from the clay, which has
been previously charged with that dis
infectant. The pencil of each child
may be assigned a certain place in
the rack. From the May Popular Me
chanics Magazine.
INLET.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bachman
visited Sunday with their uncle Alfred
Doriot, at Pioneer, who is very ill.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Keefer and fami
ly spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs.
Bill Smith near Munson.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Lane visited
Sunday with Clarence Lane and family-Roy
Blair of Toledo, and Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Blair of Wauseon, visited
Sunday with Homer Blair and family.
Mr. and Mrs. James Fowler, Dave
Ricker and family and Mr. Frank
Cook spent Sunday with V. M. Fow
ler and family.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brink and
Miss Orla Bachman spent Sunday at
Bachman Bros.
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Shaffer and
family and Mr. and Mrs. DeWitt visit
ed Sunday at Willys Patterson's.
Mrs. Cora Cowgill and daughter
Mae, and Mrs. Eliza Cone spent Sun
day with Mrs. Sarah Shaffer at Fay
ette. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Stubbins are
the proud parents of a boy born April
16th.
I. E. Crow and family spent Sun
day with Chas. Schlegel and family
near waiaron.
Born, to Mr. and Mrs. James Boyes
a son, Wednesday April 12th.
Mr. Miller and Mr. Chase both of
Fayette, called on Mr. Bert Poorman
bunday afternoon.
Miss Ruth Johnson of Wauseon
spent from Friday until Sunday even
ing witn ner parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Arby Johnson.
Mr. and .Mrs. Henry Miller spent
Sunday with Mr. and Mrs. Glen
Breece.
Miss Lulu Layman called on Mrs.
If rank Bowers Saturday afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Miller called
at Bert Poorman's Monday evening.
Mrs. Bert Porrman and Miss Lottie
Brown called on Mrs. Henry Field
mire one evening last week.
A birthday dinner was given at
the Union School last Tuesday in
nonor oi Miss upal iSailey.
Mr. Frank Aumack called at Mr.
frank Bowers' Saturday evening.
WHAT IS ACID
PHOSPHATE WORTH?
.In the average of 22 years work by
the Ohio Experiment Station at
Wooster, 21 at Strongsville and 12
years each at Germantown and Car
penter, acid phosphate, used at the
rate of 80 to 120 pounds per acre, has
returned a little more than 8 bushels
of corn for 100 pounds of phosphate,
the fertilizer being spread on all the
land with the grain fertilizer drill
just before planting the corn.
Told That There Was Ho Cure For
Him.
"After suffering for over twenty
years with indigestion and having
some of the best doctors here tell me
there was no cure for me, I think it
only right to tell you for the sake of
otner sulterers as well as your own
satisfaction that a 25 cent bottle of
Chamberlain's Tablets not onlv re
lieved me but cured me within two
months although I am a man of 65
years," writes Jul. Grobien Houston,
lexas. for sale by all dealers.
Sweeping Victory of Drys In Province
of Manitoba.
The province of Manitoba, Canada,
fthich voted dry recently, has an area
twice as great as that of Ohio. Many
former Ohioans are low citizens of
the province. Winnipeg, the capital
has a population of 150,000. That city
voted dry by a big majority. Two
hundred fcaloons and many wholesale
nouses win close June i.
Canada is rapidly becoming dry.
Prince Edward Island is entirely dry.
Nova Scotia is all under prohibition
except the city of Halifax. New Bruhs-
wick has prohibition in ten of her fif
teen counties. Quebec has 906 dry
towns and only 237 wet. The province
cf Saskatchewan Is all dry. The prov
ince of Alberta voted for prohibition
last July. Ontario and British Co
lumbia are getting ready to vote.
CLEVELAND OFFICIALS
AND JOHN BARLEYCORN
Drinking on Duly By Employes
Will Not Be Tolerated.
Princess Theatre
Monday April 24th
Season 19161917
Elmendorf Travel Talks
InAVtL WIIHUUI IKiiUttLt
will be given once a month at Princess Theatre on
Every Fourth Monday
Direct from Orchestra Hall, Chicago.
First Subject "DALMATIA AND MONTENEGRO."
The Daily News, Chicago said; "There are no
pictures like Elmendorf. Greatest entertainment of
its kind ever offered."
Endorsed by Schools, Women's Clubs and Fraternal
Organization?.
The lecturer will take you through "HOURS OF
DELIGHTFUL TRAVEL."
Special Children's Matinee
Evening
Adults 25c
4.00 p. m.
7:15 and 9:00
Children 10c
Cleveland, O. (Special.) Anti-
drinking orders are expected to be
posted in all municipal departments
ol this city soon. Department direc
tors have declared unanimously that
ail employes found drinking liquor
while on duty will be instantly dis
charged.
Utilities Director Farrell says
"Drinking liquor while on duty will
not be tolerated. No drinking goes
on city time.
Finance Director Neal says: "In
stant dismissal is the punishment for
all workers in my department who
take a nip during working hours."
The action of the officials is causing
a flutter among the thousand em
Vloyes, but the orders are accepted In
good spirit
Saloonkeepers Want Protection.
The Ohio Liquor league appeals to
the state liquor licensing board to
protect saloonkeepers from bootleg-
eers and speakeasy keepers. This is
a frank admission of' the failure of
license. The brewers have a strong
grip on the liquor business of the
state and sell as readily to unlicensed
as to licensed dealers.
you secure t'h e
and strike the
proper medium. We take
pleasure in meeting vour
wishes in our line and our prices
are carefully estimated on cost of
production.
KENYON & WEIR
Printers and Publishers
PITY THE POOR BLIND.
In speaking of the work of the Ohio
Commission for the Blind Governor
Willis in his address at the opening
of the new quarters for the Commis
sion at Columbus said:
No one,", said the Governor.
would wish to place a monetary val
ue upon a pair of eyes, nevertheless,
it is a fact that the state is saving
thousands of dollars as a result of
the commission's practical methods
for the conservation of vision. It
costs a great deal more to educate a
child without sight than with sight,
and if adult life has to be spent in
darkness, additional public funds may
be required to provide nnancial relief.
It can easily be shown that, for the
increased appropriation given the
commission for the saving of eyes,
Ohio will be spared many times that
amount of money for the future care
of those who might otherwise have
been blind. I leave it to yon to place
an estimate upon the human happi
ness which has been given to- those
who are able to see today as a result
of this campaign to save sight."
from time immemorial the cry
has been 'Pity the Poor Blind'. The
state, through this commission, is
making every effort to enable those
who are already sightless to do what
they can to be usefully and happily
employed. Those who have seen our
blind friends working this afternoon
and have examined the useful, attrac
tive and well made articles rejoice
that a new day has dawned for those
who have appealed to us to give them
an opportunity to take their places,
so far as possible, in the economic
world.
Helen Keller has told us that 'The
heaviest burden on the blind is not
blindness, but idleness, and they can
be relieved of this greater burden.
The state can teach the blind to work,
but their fellow citizens must furnish
the market for their products. The
commission for the blind, by virtue of
its more adequate quarters, which are
said to be as well adapted to their
purpose as any in the country, is
going to be able to send an ever-increasing
supply of work to those who
are asking to do their part in this
work-a-day world. I am-glad to have
this opportunity to acknowledge the
hearty co-operation which has been
given to the commission for the blind
by the press, merchants, women's
clubs and the public in this worthy
effort to find a market for the work
of the blind and thus help them to
themselves.
PRINCESS THEATRE.
Elmendorf Travel Talks.
TO TELL OF DALMATIA AND
MONTENEGRO
Dwight Elmendorf's beautifully il
lustrated travel talk on Dalmatia.
with side trips into neighboring states
of Herzegovina and Montenegro, will
be the offering at Princess Theatre on
Monday April 24th.
Dalmatia, it will be remembered,
corresponds very closely to the ancient
kingdom of-Illyra, where Shakespeare
placed the scenario of his "Twelfth
Night." This delightful little country
with its island studded coast, its medi
aeval cities, and its stirring history,
promises to make this travel talk one
of sharp contrasts with those which
have already been given during the
past months. The lecturer will first
introduce his hearers to Fiume at the
northern end of the Adriatic sea, and
will then continue his tour to Zara, the
Capital of the country. Following the
visit to this interesting city, there will
be shown in turn, Sevenico, Trau,
Spalata, Salono, Ragusa, Curzola, Car
t&to and Cittinje. The latter city,
which is the capital of Montegegro, is
said to be one of the most picturesque
places in the world being described
by the lecturer as an oasis in a sea of
rocks.
Each step of the journey will be il
lustrated and it promises to be a re
velation to those who are wearied of
the hackneyed paths.
Special matinee for school children
at 4 p. m.
Had to Cater to An.
"I don't like the way this hotel is
run!" carped a peevish young travel
ing salesman. '"Neither do I," replied
the landlord of Pruntytown tavern;
"but I've got to entertain all the Cools
that come along as well as the sen
sible people." Judge.
His Age is Against Him.
. "I am 62 years oid and I have been
troubled with kidneys and bladder for
a good many years," writes Arthur
Jones, Allen. Kans. "My age is against
me to ever get cured, but Foley Kid
neys Pills do more good than any
thing I ever tried." Rheumatism, ach.
ing back, shooting pains, stiff joints.
irregular action, all have been reliev
ed. Fink & Haumesser.
New Rooms For Old?
What a transformation can be made in old
rooms by finishing the walls and ceilings with
the ready-to-use flat wall paint ! The rich, harmonious
effect that Mellotoned walls will give your home will de
light you. You will be still better satisfied as time passes
and you find that the beautiful finish holds its color and
is not easily marred.
Mellotone imparts the soft, beautiful effects of water
colors and gives the enduring, sanitary, washable qualities
of high grade paint. The velvety, flat-tone colors make
rooms attractive and homelike.
Come in and see the Mellotone sample panels on
display here see how this modern wall finish will look
in your own home
Brigham, Guilford & Co.
Wauseon, Ohio
