SCaldw eli
VOL. 30
VOL 30 . -COLUMBIA, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, A-K" I 916
. UL 1 iý Cnint~ }1P gtntN o. 20
a .1 1 I COnt1Pnt s he sttedhenr n .,ks , ,nnu
The Net Weight
Regulations Good
A modification of the regula
tions for marking the wcight oir
measure of the contents of fo.d
packages has been annourrnd re
cently by thL department in Fuo d
Inspection Decision 1ii;3. ThIS
decision allows the us; of frac
tions in indicating weigcht and
measure when there exists a def
inate trade custem for their use.
Under previous ruLlingJ a pick.
age containing one-half gallon
should be marked two (uart_
but now it may be marked as
one-half gallon. This ducisionr
decision permits the tra le to fol
low in this respect established
customs of markin., if the mark
ing is plain and conspi :ous nd
in no way misleading to the con
sumer.
The decis'on permits of thec
metric system in marking fooc
packages, when this system is I
preferred, and specifies the termsr
in which weights or measure t
should be stated when the metric
system is used. The decision
follows: v
Regulation 29 of the Rules and
Regulations for the enforcement st
of the Food and Drugs Act is n,
hereby amended by striking out
paragraphs (d) and (e), and sub
stituting therefor the following; m
"(d) If the quantity of the te
A Really Clean Refrigerator
The Celebrated I
"Ranney Refrigerator"
Is a Really Clean refrigerator
The Porcelain lining in the Cabinet stle
is waded of one solid piece of Por:e
laiu.
You use porcelain dishes, washstands, bathtubs and
kitchen utensils---why not a porcelain-lined refriger
ator.
Perfect circulation of dry cold air
saves ice bills and food waste I
We purchased two solid cars this season, which guar.
antees you just the kind and iza wanted, and a price lower
than you could possibly oK;ain elsewhere. This large i
purchase enables us to Inaintain the same prices we have
made for the past four year=, notwithstanding the factt
that all the factories have ad vanced their prices over 25
per cent.
This is or e of the many advan
tages of buying from us. r
A solid car f chain and lawn swings just
received. Our No.1 swing is made of solid oak
full bolt construttio, his best quality souldered e
link galvanized caime, very heavy hooks, aud is n
iicely fnished! the new brawn Fumed finish. toW
Special this mont only $2.70 42 In. a:
Special this month nly $3.15 48 In.
Everyt ing arked in plain figures
7r TrelruranrlsP~Br~pr)
ptltai
Uzi
W' LE SALE RETAIL da
132 3; 7'Jrh Second st,
Freight paid on all orders over $10. "a
the
Rm
contents be stated by weight or
mcrsure, it shall be marked in
d terms of the largest unit con
tained in the package, except
that, in the case of an article
with respect to which there ex
ists a definite trade custom for
d marking the quantity of the ar
Stidcle i terms of fractional parts
of larger units, it may be so;
marked in accordance with th
cust'm. Common fractions shall
She reduced to their lowest ter ms:
decinmal fractions shall be pre
cedcd by zero and shall he car
riedl out to not more than two
I r!aces.
'() Statements of weight t
shall be in terms of avoir dupuis
f) oms and ounces: statements
of liquidr measure shall be i t
te'rm of the United Statcs gal
Ilon of 231 cubic inches ana its i
cIstimwary subdivisions, i. e., in I
ga olns, quarts, pints, or fluid d
ounces, and shall expi ess the vol- it
(me of the liquid at C8 degrees
F. (20 degrees C.); and state- 0f
ments of dry measure shall be in
terms of the United States stan
dard bushel of 2,150.42 cubic hi
inches and its custimary subdi- cc
visions, i. e., in bushels, pecks, g
quarts, or pints: 'boviided/, That te
statements of quantity may bl in
in terms of metric weight or hi
measure. Statements of metric in
weights shall be in terms of kilo- if
grams or grams. Stbtements of he
metric measure should be in pr
terms of liters or centiliters. Oth
..-me S A*L
SLI4~kJ .I1 i4m
Biy 'ne of the oldest Citiz n'i oi ti 1'arisii
The John A. Murrelli aij'
When the detective furnished
:the citizens with the list of
natmfs that belonged to the Mur.
rcll clan, it caused a great Conl
urion, as there was men co-oper
acing with, and assisting, who
was never susjironed of having
anything to du with them. A
man by the name of Dick Stew
art seemed to be in corn nanj of
that scction. He had control of
Sthe s.ore and wo·d yard, and the
local c;rkanizatin. lThey called
their place of business Columbia.
Murrell made his visits to this
point every few months, they
gt:neral!y had a rally meeting
during his stay. When travel
ing he was in disguise, so as not
to be known by the public. Ono
one of his visits, he met the 1
preacher, -Galoway at the cro- i
sing on the river, and demanded 1
his money and watch-with the
command to drop it on the c
ground, the preacher remnonstra
ted with the plea that it might 1
injure the watch; he repeated t
his command with an oath, say= v
ing that it was his property, and fi
if it broke, it was his loss, after r
he found out he was robbing a
preacher who only had a few c
IouR PUBLIC FORUM
Frank Trumbull
ON UNIFICATION OP RAiLROAD JURISDICTION.
or The IaV wgrp Xevernment*
an ft * regulation of railroads, and no One
more capable of discussing the subject than those who
finance and manage railroad propertios, for experience
of is the handmden of understanding and practical wis
dom the stepping stone to success.
tFrank Trumbull, Chairman of the Railroad Com-r
mittee on Federal Relations, when asked for his views
on the effect of regulation upon railroad investments said
"The desirability of regulation 1a, of course, admitted.
Whether the regulation the railroads have had is a suc.
Scess is a fair subject for discussion. One thing is cer
tain-there is at present practically no appetite for fresh investment in rail.
roads; that is for new construction or large improvements.
Now that an efficient banking system has been established by the Fed
eral Government, a solution of the railway problem, fair alike to investors
.and to the rest of the public, is first in importance among our national do.
Smestic questions. The Interdependence of railway owners and employe and I
of the shipping and traveling public has been demonstrated so often that I do
not attempt here to prove it over again.
Are railroad managers entirely to blame? Suppose you are attempting
Sto administer a railroad in an honest and straightforwrd' way. Most rail- i
roads are so managed; there have been some exceptions, just as there have
been wicked bankers, farmers who put their best apples in the top of the bar.
rol, and other people who have made sharp horse trades. But in either of
the cases mentioned, does anyone expect the State to penalize the banking
j business as a whole, or the apple business or the raising of horses?
bThe situation is much as if you had built a hotel In some ood sized
town, say, twenty or thirty years ago. Probably very few, if any, of the bsized
rooms were provided witl bath rooms. Perhaps the furnitue consisted of a bed
bed, a bureau, a wash-stand and two or three chairs. Suprpoe othat afte in
vesting your money in that way the State passed a law stipulating that the
price per room should not be over two dollars per day. Suppose after that
the State passed other laws requiring a certain number of bath rooms, ad
ditional furnishings, fire escapes, screens on all the windows, sanitary ap.
pliances, etc. Perhaps these requirements are reasonah ie :,nd iii the public
interest, but where would you get the money for new and better hotels under
such restrictions of profits? I have said that the situation of the railroads is
much like that, but the hotel investment Is simplicity Itself as comparead U i
investing in a railroad."
_ 0---
er terms of metric weight or
measure may be used if it ap
pears that a definite trade cus
tomn exists for marking articles
with such other terms and the
airticles are marked in accord
anee with the custom."
-.-- -
Keeping the Do Iar at Work.
The period of w Miting between the
sowving of 'dvirrfrFint seed and the
reaping ref the sa'es harvest it often
an anxios time for the mrichant
whose capital is lirnitel.
To the small den!er.r It' :f ore. quick
returns are of ev " 'irexter impor
tance than to the hV on.. He must
use ranid-re roe :,.. The same
money that he inve: in pubiicty to
day must be availab e for reinvest.
meat with the shortest pcssible do
lay.
The newspaper a!one Is capable of
meeting his requiremrnts. Attractive
display in the ad vrt'rin, cohunina ci
a live newspaper orliarily pays its
Own way, with uosurious intr-t. t, o;
the day of publication.--Philadelphia 1
Record.
1.· idt:, In. the mo(!:~·tor bcli
to him. \Vitn fl' h it lnvctjCio that
flu.; nl\'t (. h L'iaflt in that
- ec 0tion a.R!i1 \;itn a p'1I'e Iflun
ey than }1 haj L. I bl?.
Oi t ' W j , (1 ,
IA, fl 1 t ii ', ; ý'LV .t ! E\Vs
I a
·S'hiila it ! 'tr"
f to ';1 trats in. >;Inn 11 e do
1," heincPuld ,%loca thIut
10 aid tai kUN r531i. 'h,)Iis 00
to the :, 1ur ;i oI. tho .' t(Ce
that i wantedh theilm to rUo; so
that ta -'. Xould knowv how' to
approu i them in the n ighttiirne.'
The citizen made a call for
help, eio ne )lne to t here assis
tance frI uijSsiSsippi arnd IL)uis
lula, 1 c' tvred a numbilier'*z off
thefl ci:n, they were tfrie by a
lcým. cx itta, were odei'e
out of the country, some of the
worst ones had their hands tied
behind thea, and blindfdlded
they were then made to walk
walk the stage plank that wa;
fixed on a boat to lead into the
river instead of the bank.
So ends the famous Mlurrel:
clan.
Cut Your Store Bill
SDown One Half
Tens of thousands of farmers as well as
town and city folks cut down their store
bills one-half last year and saved money
in spite of generally short crops and re
duced wages.
Absolutely millions of dollars were
saved and countless families lived better
than ever before in thelface of the cotton
crisis and general business depression.
How were these burdensome store bills
cut down? By the real money-saving
power of good home gardens, rightly
planted and kept planted and tended
through the season.
Hastihgs 1916 Seed Catalogue tells how
to cut store bills down; tells about gar
den and farm seeds of kinds and a qual
Ity that cannot be bought from your mer
chant or druggist. It's full of garden and
farm information. It's free if you ask
for it. Write for it now. IL G. HASTINGS
CO., Atlanta, CGa.-(Advt.)
KEPT T.E c2:j!'::: v.' ,,!JOH ;:u U19 A lal WATCH
riec^.ra r` Tv:, '.. ;'cr, CG tc att a
Rc.;uke of til of tig
v,!)'s of flddl
,ty " o '1 tv" of
, r'ftt.y i , br! u a
k Q r(I hiJ nDav (tI, I' i,.i( t i u
it nt I~ clri ~III id 313 I~cr n~ rt
:i, van i iif
feip . Loi-d I, i ¶1! 1
' "O 'ne -'ou'd Il h iic aliat i tI( c'
fla ti kI]' fiir tl 'i; ,,I! !! I !
Itiytrate~j t;!. t I, the Ji;t; , ilo ob
errvel h'e il or d' day 1 ":;yrs.
En 111(1 ~is I nv 1fl " )1:" 1": th'it I
v (AlI 1ev tr put a t1ifji I0 a tiain on
1!:N LordMs day. nra r wirud I ue a
"One n lt "(v it has ;'revlrrn:t'd riu
from pi'c'a( lilug; In i.. ia t ay bu
;a no I r i ld i2, ti t ;'!iradr
in ' O. iot :, ar I is . t t it: l~i; t~ (' a"
IIthe' sMijiacI 01 111)!'. Id : e '(rj I mr..
"The late' Sir (,, age L~iv*es-y toed
rio,'' he siu d, thar be hIi d ole'
i'Ptnt It Sunday no. :x' iron is I' ~ it
'Tiai'elii g I iiii 2eari an''tIu
day, he0 found t 1t at i:, in' (''Ivy are
rive home att T,::1,: jIlg " by
truv'e1iLgE on ;,,y, ".,si' 1L." are
'I Sr~d !V:r:~l~o .:l'adtue re
t:IIiri g a a t than 4'
h ud a 1siv, at I:uxesr":'1o
the aiay. oilv p
Wanaer Bros.
GRAYSON, LOUISIANA
Dependable Merchandise of
Standard Quality
SAnd at Prices Which are asi.low as is
onsistent with that Quality
he Customer of Warner Brothers is assured of valuere
ceived, courteous treatment, and the season's
NEWEST GREETINGS
Warner Brothers
' 'REAT 10 YE
V
Sof st les will find a response to his expectations if
he wiI drop in here and see the
919 Spring and Summer
Smodels and fabrics I have on display, of
(c, e Shirts, Underware, Hats, Hosiery, Shoes,
Sand everything that goes to make the
t "TThe Well Dressed Man"
aster is only 15 days off, but it is not too late to
order your things from me, if you are unable to
Scall and sec themn for yourself.
1 !rýp ': and It me know what you want, and
you wI:. acver r-;gret i pay the parcel pos.
Lan, rd if not satisfactory, you are at liberty to re
r.a )"70 i' you may order.
D it w. The adIress is
rur ton H. Wolf
2 ;)S $iard 3t. Monroe, La.
*EI? ~ Ca1$..*4 ~ ~ ~A~ S-·
Q er Dc ricty of Ways
n WHi rounid It At.
fo . ' ays theeion.
c n n4v 1 t one, "re.
01 antasing
I 0 lV think of
.iie I\ h ld a vwartc I ve been
..td. o , ; a , ';! 1 Ilt of time. Not
s runi eCL. ' * in . :'r'" . walking in
t;e ( itv H 1, tilt, he il, l'erpd blocks
.V' I alctidatie Ia' f 't , I am coutlu.
ly holdinig t..;* "'atch on wy pedes
'an ePui'ts
"I titgu'e fir:t hiwe long it takes me
to wa!k a block (going at top speed
so ILt!t soap folks 'uitrk I'm tuad, I
',ive been a lel t (lo RR yards Is
9"-5 srcondl. or abuit seven miles
+n hour.
'hn. of r u!rs, I time all later
La' (at 'ism;,B ':n to a wIle. I've
1 rued w' ly wt-li i. 4t what four
ri le au olur: no i:, and I want to
tell you that folks w; a speak so glibly
a'ut doiug that (oght to hold a
:ctch on their performances to see
what It means.
"The other day f got up some sprint
races betmw.en ,oome hoyv just as I
could timte their running I find there's
a lot of fun. tU in ml aking imaginary
hets with m .olr Low long it will take
me to catch up with some one else
'alkiing in 'h:... 4,i' direction or how
'ong it will be h-fore a car gets to a
cert "in crorwing.
"Also a s;op v:wtCh is a great thing
fur timing how 'ong you can hold yoeur
:nreath."
