Everett's Toilers Patronize Our Local Merchants. Tills Is Ik Toilers' Paper
Register Again!
Do It Now!
VOL. XXV.
A Reasonable Demand
The Railroad Brotherhoods who
are askdng for an eight-hour day,
claim that it would be a great bene
fit to the public who shlip and re
ceive freight.
Some of their reasons are that in
these days of keen competition and
quick changes of styles in manufac
tured goods, merchants are sadly
handicapped by the fact that freight
shipments are so slow that the styles
change and discounts are lost by
delay in receiving goods.
All merchants and most manufac
turers try to buy in as small quanti
ties as possible and make quick
turnovers tin their stock, but with
slow freight shipments it is impossi
ble to do this.
Railroads, in order to increase their
earnings per train mlile, are loading
their locomotives with every car that
they can possibly pull.
Trains are not made up at divis
ion or terminal points until a suffi
cient number of loaded cars are ac
cumulated in the terminal to make
up the full tonnage of the locomo
tive. Cars containing merchandise
are held up at terminal points until i
enough other cars show up at that
terminal point to make up a long
train.
When it is remembered that ship
ments say from New York to towns
in the Mliddle West pass through
from 15 to 20 terminal or division
points, it can readily be seen how
serious the aggregate of time lost
would be to merchants and jobbers.
When these long trains are finally
made up at each division point they
are loaded to full capacity and drag
along at a snail's pace. The trains
are so long that oftentimes the sid
ings will not hold them and at meet
ing points between two trains on sin
gle track railroads more time is
lost by the trains having to "saw"
by.
Another factor of railroading today
is the fact that in these long trains
only cars that are in perfect condi
tion can be used, because of the
strain upcn the couplers and under
framing which result /in pulled-out
drawheads, broken car frames, etc.
This is one of the reasons for car
shortage, because as soon as the car
begins to deteriorate, it must be
placed on the side track and taken
out of service.
If trains were moved more rapid
ly cars would reach their destina
tion, be unloaded and put back in
service quicker. The train crews in
asking for a basic eight-hour day,
means that freight trains must make
an average of 12% miles per hour
in order to avoid payment of over- j
time instead of the 10 miles per |
hour as at present. There is no de- .
mand for any change in the passen
ger—only freight.
Under the present ten hour day
system there is no penalty for work
ing a man overtime, consequently, if
train crews are kept on the road
longer than ten hours there is no
extra payment made for overtime 1
other than the regular payment per
hour that the trainmen get before the
ten hours expired. Under the pres
ent way of paying for overtime it is
of little consequence to the railway
companies whether they work the
crews ten hours or fifteen hours and
fifty minutes, as one more car of
freight added to the train will more
than make up for the wages paid the
v Another Big Dance
Tuesday Evening
LABEL LEAGUE INVITES ALL
TO "GET THE STEP"
0
Ragles' Hall will be the scene of another one of those merry-making
dancel for which the Isabel League Is fast becoming famous. Tuesday even
ing April 2!), is the date you are to mark off as "engaged." All unionists
* and their friends are invited to "get the step" with the rest of the merry
makers at Kagles' Hall on this happy occasion. "She" will sure be there.
So will "he." If you miss the fun, don't say we didn't give you fair warning
I
men by keeping them on the road
long hours.
If the demand of the men for an
eight hour day, with payment of i
time and one-half 'for overtime, is i
granted, the railroads will see to it i
that there is very little overtime!
and will move their trains faster, and
if necessary make shorter trains to
get them over the road quicker and
cut out all necessary delays.
It is claimed by some railroad of
ficials that it is impossible to make
100 miles at the rate of 12% miles
per hour, but this claim is offset by
the fact that twenty-four railroads in
the United States are now on 12%
miles per hour basis and it is im
portant to know that none of them
are in the hands of receivers, which
is good proof that it is not not cost
ing these railroads any considerable
amount to speed up their trains and
give their men an eight hour day.
It is vital to the Interest of mer
chants and manufacturers of this
country that merchandise be trans
ported as expeditiously as possible
and the hours saved in transporta-
Ition means that the merchandise
| gets in the hands of the consumers
'just so much sooner, which means
: more rapid turnover in stocks and a
| greater consumption of manufac
tured products.
If this thing of heavy and more
powerful locomotives, cars of great
er capacity and longer trains reaches
anything like the proportions pre
dicted by prominent railway officials,
such as President Willard of the B.
& O. Railroad, the shipping of mer
chandise will go back to what it was
in the old days of the prairie schoon
er and stage coach, so far as time
reqi:|jre<l in transportation is con
cerned, as the tendency of railway
operation is toward increasing the
capacity of trains, rekardless of the
time required to move over the road.
The hours now lost in the slow
movement of freight, if saved, would
mean millions to the commercial in
terests of the United States.
This question of an eight hour day
for train crews should come, right
home to all shippers and receivers of
freight.
WIN "LEGAL STRIKE
Denver. —Machinists of this city
have won their strike for better con
ditions. The strike was "permitted"
under the laws of Colorado, which
penalizes employes if they suspend
work before they notify the state in
dustrial commission that they con
template such action.
The commission investigated the
! machinists' demands and agreed that
thir demands were "just." Then the
machinists struck to enforce their
, new rates, which have now been ac
cepted by practically every contract
shop in the city.
OPPOSITION IS EXPECTED
The labor movement, kike every
other movement that moves, is sub
ject to a good deal of uncompliment
ary remarks from those who stand
still and sneer. Probably the mule
who looks over the fence and wobbles
an ear at the lightning express has a
rather small opin/ion of railroad
speed. -Coast Seamen's Journal.
Patronize YOUR Advertiser*.
The Labor Journal
HE IT RESOLVED by the EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL, in the name of Organized
Labor and Justice, that it most emphatically and vigorously condemns and censures the
actions ami conduct of the Public Service Commission of the State of Washington, and whose
members tire ('. A. Reynolds, Arthur A. Lewis, and Prank l>. Spinning, for the manner in
which said commission has acted in adjudicating the complainl of The Everett Trades Coun
cil vs. the Everett Railway, Light and Water Company, the same being cause No. 1851, re
cords of the Public Service Commission; and which cause was filed with the said commission)
nearly one and a half years ago, and in which cause the respondent, the Everett Railway,
Light and Water Company, was charged with chanj'mir its consumers with extortionate
rates for light and water; Ami be it further Resolved, that whereas said commission on De
cember !>, 1915, made its findings, finding the charges made in complainant's complaint true,
and made an order setting aside and cancelling the exorbitant rates then charged for elec
tricity and making an order establishing lower rates .and immediately afterwards suspended
said new rates; And be it Resolved further, That whereas said commission has wholly
ignored this Council, complainant in said cause, and ignored its counsel and at the same
time consulted with the defendant company, and has. so far as this Council knows, failed to
render its decision in said cause, otherwise than above stated, and still permits the defendant
company to collect rates that it, the commission, has already found to he unjust, unfair and
excessive, and has wholly failed as a public agent of the government to perform its duty;
the Everett Trades Council censures and condemns said Public Service Commission in the
name of justice and organized labor.
Dated this 19th day of April. 1916.
Be it Resolved, That a certified copy of this resolution be sent to His Excellency, Governor
Ernest Lister, a copy be sent to the Public Service Commission of Washington, and that a
copy be given to the public press.
WIRE MEN STRIKE
Johnstown. Pa. —The Citizens' Elec
tric and Gas Appliance Company, the
leading electrical concern in this city,
attempted to increase hours and re
duce, wages, and as a result is minus
its union electrical workers.
The. Lathers' Union has prepared a
new wage scale, to take effect the
first of next month.
IDAHO UNIONISTS UNITE
Boise, Idaho. —Representatives of
40 trade unions In this state organized
the Idaho state federation of labor
and elected the| following officers:
B. P. Caton, president, and P. H.
Spangenberg, secretary, both of Boise;
J. C. Verline, Wallace, first vice-pres
ident: A. W. Kool, Boise, second vice
president; A. H. Brown. Pocatello,
third vice president.
ROOM FOR ALL
There is room in the organized la
bor movement for every man or wom
an who is honorably employed for
wages . The unions owe it to them
selves to see that the message of
collective effort is carried to these
people in every community and that
they are given a hearty welcome to
our ranks.—Ex.
PRESSMEN ELECT OFFICERS
Pressmen's Home, Term. — The
American Pressman publishes the fol
lowing list of officials elected by a
referendum vote of the International
Printing Pressmen and Assistants'
unfon:
President, George L. Berry; vice
presidents, J. M. Brophy, William H.
Mcllugh and S. B. Marks; secretary -
treaßurer, Joseph C. Orr; home trus
tee, J. J. Collins; technical school
trustees, William J. Gear/. Frank
Dermody and Harry Muss.
MACHINISTS RAISE WAGES
MasaHlon, Ohio--Machinists em
ployed by the Griscom-Kussel! plant
have won their strike. Wages are in
creased from | to 5 cents an hour,
with pay for overtime. The latter
Clause, together with the nine-hour
day, wrll take effect June 1.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
RESOLUTION
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY. APRIL 21, 1916.
CARPENTERS ADVANCE
Indianapolis. — General Secretary
Duffy of the Brotherhood of Carpen
ters reports that the following locals
have been organized during the
month of March:
Trenton. N. J.; New York City (fur
niture workers); Grey Hull, Wyo: De
war, Okla.; Safety Harbor, Fla.; New
York City (ship carpenters, colored);
Columbus. S. C; Duluth. Minn, (cabi
net makers and miilnien): Sequin.
Tex.; Cleveland, Ohio (Polish); Ajo,
Ariz.; KJingsport, Term.; Emporium,
Pa.; Raleigh, N. C; Great Bend, Kan.;
Rittman, Ohio; Jackson, Miss,; Stev
ens Point. Wis.; Augusta, Kan.; and
Stamford, Conn, (boat builders).
Carpenters at Champaign and Ur
bana. 111., have increased wages from
50 to 55 cents per hour to take effect
April 15.
At Madison, Wis , the Carpenters'
Union has signed a three-year agree
ment with wage increases from 40 to
42 % cents per hour for shopmen and
from 45 to 47% cents per hour for
outslide men from April 1, 1916, to
January 1, 1918, and 50 cents per hour
from January 1, 1918, to to April 1,
1919.
New Rochelle, N V , Carpenter's
Union raised wages 30 cents per day,
making the present rate $4.80.
PAINTERS RAISE WAGES
Tiffin, Ohio. The Painters' Union,
has secured recognition and raised
wages from 22% and 25 cents to 30
cents an hour. Trap and one-half will
be paid for overtime and Sunday work.
This scale has been generally signed
by contractors.
I.
TO ORGANIZE UNSKILLED
Sacramento, Oal. At the annual
convention of the State Building
Trades Council it was decided to in
augurate, an aggressive campaign of
organization among the unskilled and
migratory workers of California.
The convention instructed its offi
cers to petition Congress to pass a
law permitting school trustees to
borrow money in the government pos
tal savings banks for the purpose of
erecting public schools. I
Patronize YOUR Advertiser*.
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL,
By O .P. Wefferling, Secretary.
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL,
By O .P. Wefferling, Secretary.
INTERPRET LAW BROADLY
I San Francisco, Cat. In awarding
an employe state compensation re
gardless of objections of a technical
nature urged by his colleagues, Com
missioner will .1. French of the indus
trial accident commission, said:
"Workmen's compensation will fail
of its main purpose, namely, providing
a partial income for a specified time
for those injured while at work, if the
technicalities that caused the over
throw of the liability system are al
lowed to enter the new field. Acci
dents arising out of the employment
under workmen's compensation, are 1
not confined to the business of the
employer, but are viewed broadly in
accord with the spirit of the legisla
tion."
LARGE LOCOMOTIVE ORDER
Philadelphia.—The Baldwin Loco
motive Works has secured orders to-'
talfng $1,850,000 for locomotives.'
Twenty-five of the locomotives which i
are of the heavy freight type, will be
built for the Pennsylvania Railroad,
and an equal number of the same sort
for the Great Northern railroad.
I
WRECKING MEN'S LIVES
i
Tacnma, Wash. —Kitchens ;ln res
taurants in this city are wrecking
' men's lives, declares the Cooks and
.Waiters' uuion, in its appeal for as
sistance to unionize these places. Un
jder present conditions non-unionists
:are compelled to work 11 and 12
j hours a day, seven days a week, in
the hot stuffy-laden atmosphere of
small kl'trhens for such wages as the
employer sees fit to pay.
j The union demands a 10-hour work
day. a one day's rest in seven and a
living wage.
HATTERS' RELIEF FUND
Washington Up to and including i
Wednesday. March 20. A. F. of U
Secretary Frank Morrison has re
ceived $111,821.30 for the benefit of
jthe Danbury hatters. This money
represents the pay of one hour's
labor on January 27 by the unionists
contributing.
Register now—TODAY!
Industry's Heavy Toll
EIGHT FATALITIES DAILY
' Harrisburg, Pa.- —Governor Brum
baugh presided at an industrial acci
dent prevention conference, held at
j the state capitol. Trade uniion offi
• cials and employers were present. In
! his opening statement the state exe
| cutive sounded a warning note be
cause of the 1,000 accidents per day,
. averaging more than eight fatalities
! per day, which are beting reported.
' It was agreed by the executive com- j
• mittee of the state federation of labor
, and representatives of various railroad ,
[ brotherhoods that President Gompers
• should be given all the time assigned
i to the workers to present their side of
I, the question. The A. P. of L. official
told the conference that labor and
capital were both striving for the same
'. end in "safety first," but called atten
tion to the fact that all reforms and
betterments of working conditions
which have been granted by society
| and by capital, have been wrung from
' them only by the stern demands of
1 organized labor, reinforced by all the I
, power and pressure it has.
'/ President Truesdale of the Delaware-'
1 Lacawanna & Western railroad, in- '
• sisted that the matin trouble is "with
! the employe who fails, or for this or
that reason, to be careful always."
President Gompers admitted careless
■ ness among workmen, but declared
| that the direct cause is overwork,
; poor pay and poor working condi
• tions.
It was shown that during the first
' two months of this year 351 workers
t " -
• lost their lives in Pennsylvania's
• shops, mills and mines. During this
] period 37,588 were injured.
| The. purpose, of the conference was
• to develop a public conscience agains l
• this destruction of human life and
) limb.
ACCIDENTS CAUSE
DEPENDENCY
Portland, Ore -Industrial accidents!
and preventable diseases outnumber
all causes of dependency on our list, 1
says the mothers' pension board. In
a report just published .
"Proper safeguarding by the differ
ent industries," continues the report, j
"would have prevented a number of i
these families from becoming depend
ent on the community, and the enact- 1
ment of new laws or enforcement of
the old laws by the state would have
prevented a number of industries
from wastefully usrng up the human
material and throwing the wreck
aside as remorselessly as though it
society to furnish the reserve while
j were inanimate machinery, leaving
they shirk theiir just responsibility.
"Proper sanitary surroundings will ,
prevent industrial health hazards,
such as dust and chemical irritants,
! the trade poisons and micro-organ
isms, such as anthrox casson disease.
; etc., which are directly disseminated
through industry.
"There are also certain diseases of
which tuberculosis and rheumatism ,
are examples, wherein the occupation
itself is not so important as the con
ditions under which it is conducted
dampness, darkness, devitalized air.
physical inactivity and fatigue are |
illustrations of such conditions."
TEXAS TEAMSTERS ADVANCE
Fort Worth, Tex. —A few month ago
'he Teamsters' Union consisted of a '
handful of members. These workers,
however, awakened to their poor con
ditions and began an agitation that
has resulted in securing contracts
with transfer companies After se
eurtng a 100 per cent organization in
this branch of their business the
teamsters now declare they will se
cure 100 members every month until
next August.
FACTORY FIRE ESCAPES
Albany. N. V. —The state industrial
commission has adopted a rule which
requires that all factory buildings
from three to t've stories in height,
in which 25 or more persons are em
ployed above the second floor, shall
have fireproof enclosed stairways to
side exits from the sidewalk, except
where the coutonts are absolutely
non-combustible and there are auto
matic sprinklers on each floor.
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
OCCUPATIONAL ILLS
CAUSE HEAVY LOSS
| Westerville, O.—Deaths from pre
ventable causes among the working
men alone in this country total 250,
--000 yearly, accordingto Dr. E R. Hay
hurst, who spoke at the state healUi
exhibit at this place. He is a special
ist on this subject, and investigates
occupational diseases for the board of
health and the state industrial com
mission.
Dr. Hayhurst defined "occupational
disease" as ill-health which results
from working. Ordinarily, work should
make good health and lengthen life,
but work under bad conditions or in
the wrong way or when exposed to
poisons has the opposite effect.
He emphasized the point that more
than half of the people who work for
wages or salary lose their lives from
causes which may and should be
prevented—enumerating as the chief
factors, tuberculosis, pneumonia, ty
phoid fever, accidents and poisoning.
There are 3,000,000 cases of indus
trial illness annually
Dr. Hayhurst enumerated as the
chief causes of occupational diseases:
Dust, coitinual breathing of which
leads to tuberculosis, pneumonia and
like diseases, causes eczema and sore
eyes, and which could be prevented
in most work places by change of
methods, installation of vent pipes,
wet sweeping and the like; dirt and
disorder, which breed uncleanliness.
depression and immorality; improper
illumination, which produces a vas l :
amount of headache and fatigue, the
true cause of which is generally nev
er suspected—bad a ; r, which usually
can be labeled as too warm, too dry
sometimes also loaded with dust,
smokes, fumes, gases or vapors: ex
posuro to high temperature, wluich
causes early old age and which in up
to-date factories is no longer a risk:
cold, where the worker is not properly
clothed, or works In damp air. or
passes from hot to cold places; fa
tigue of body, hands or eyes, which
is the most common cause of oecu
national diseases, and inactivity, on
the other hand, where the worker sits
steadily at a machine or a desk. I»oth
of which are dangerous from the
viewpoint of over or under exercise
TRADE UNIONISM LEADS
Toronto. Ont. —"One only needs to
understand the great principles for
wbjlch trade unionism has always
stood," says the Industrial Banner,
i "when single handed it has had to
' fight for reforms before they had yet
I become popular, to fully realize the
broadness of its democracy and the
great influence it has exercised for
good in the world. While organized
labor has agitated for and secured
shorter hours of labor, higher rates
of wages, and has vastly improved
the industrial conditions of the army
;of toilers, it has also champions! llose
principles of reform that must in
evitably evolve a wider and a freer
socral atmosphere.
"Viewed in the light of what it actu
ally advocates and stands for. the de
mocracy of the trade union movement
jis not even open to question Labor
always has been and is today, a
leader in the great battle for equity,
'liberty and real reform"
WANT FARMERS HELP
Kent, Wash V R Cottr.-U. rural
credits commissioner of the Washing
ton State Orange, received a letter
from the Western Railway M.inacers'
association asking for assistance in
its ffght against the eight-hour de
mands of train servic emp'oyes.
The managers were informed that
"the farmers of Washington state
are thoroughly organized and in har
mony with organized labor, and that
"the farmer of today is not permitting
himself to be used as a cat's paw to
pull chestnuts from any corporation
fire."
If th<» mountain will not come to
us let us go to the mountain, or in
other words, if we cannot secure our
r'ghts one May let us try another.
Patronize YOUR Advertisers.
No. 61
