IN A DEMOCRAT
ONE PAPER
CELINA
In Ins HOME It worth dassit In
Ins byway, and Jual ramcmbar THE
DEMOCRAT la lha homa paper of
Msrear County, a a a
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGGEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH THE HUB OF THE UNI
VERSE. Volume 21, Number 2
Carlin & Carlin, PublUhen
Celina, Ohio, April 21, 1916
THE
CEL
FIRST
Presidential Primary Will Be
Held Next Tuesday
When Democrat and Republican
Will Say Whom They Prefer
for Party Candidates.
This Ih tho year In which Ohio
votem need to keep their citizenship
on straight and remember that fhy
anil not tho politicians, Iiiivr power
when it coition to naming candidates
for olllee.
.There will bo two general primar
ies this year In which voters will par
ticipate. The first will he held on
next Tuesday, April 25, at the usual
voting precincts, between 5:30 u.m.
and 5:30 p.m.
This primary, known as tho Pres
idential preference primary, Is for tc
voting of choice for president, for
delegates to the national political
conventions and delegates to the state
conventions.
Tho Presidential Primary law,
passed by the General Assembly of
Ohio, May 27. 1!)15, and approved
by Governor Willis June 4, 1915, pro
vldes for the election of delegates
and alternates to the national con
ventions by direct vote of the people.
Every candidate for delegate or al
ternate to national convention must
(lie with his declaration of candidaey
and certificate, a statement In writ
ing signed by him In which ho shall
state his first and second choice for
the nomination of his party of a can
didate for president.
The name of such first and second
choice candidates shall be printed on
the primary ballot Immediately below
the name of the candidate for dele
gate or alternate in such a way as to
clearly disclose his preference.
In addition to voting on the elec
tion of delegates and alternates at the
'primary election, the law provides
that the voters of the several parties
of Ohio shall be given an opportun
ity on separate party ballots to ex
press their preference as to who
should be the nominee ror their
respective parties for president and
vice persident of the United States.
In order to do this It Is provided
that a declaration of candidacy for
each candidate for nomination for
president and vice president may be
filed in the same manner as candi
dates for state ollice.
At the voting booth the voter will
be furnished wilh a separate ticket
on which will be printed the names
of the candidates for the nomination
of President who have complied with
the law. This ticket will be headed
"presidential preference ticket" and
the ballots will be deposited in separ
ate ballot boxes.
On the Democratic ticket two can
didates for President have complied
with the law and their names will ap
pear on the ballot President Wood
row Wilson and Ex-Governor James
E. Campbell. Mr. Campbell Mb for
President Wilson and is "on tho tick
et merely that the law, technically,
may be complied with.
Besides this the delegates and al
ternates to the state convention chos
en by the. Democratic mass conven
tion In this city in February, will be
elected at the Primary next Tues
day. There are seven each of these as
follows: Delegates D. It. Smalley,
Emmett Mannix, C. R. Jenkins, Em
ory Loudenbeck, D. C. Kinder, T .E.
Williams and Fred Cottemoeller.
Alternates J. E. .Snyder, G. W.
Kinkley, James G. Staeger, H. J. Stel
zer, Irvin Hoel, II. C. Meinej-ding
and Otto Summers.
The delegates to the state conven
tion will meet at Columbus on June
5 and 6. This convention, in addi
tion to nomininatng candidates for
presidential electors, shall formulate
the state party platform.
Each political party will have two
delegates from each of the 22 con
gressional districts, and four delegates-
at-large. The latter are elect
ed by the voters of the entire
state. The delegates chosen at the
primaries will represent the state in
the National Democratic Convention
at St. Louis and the National Re
publican convention at Chicago.
Doth of these conventions will be
held In June.
The second general primary will
be held on the second Tuesday in
August, which ,will be the 8th. At
this primary the parties will nomin
ate all candidates for office from Gov
ernor and " United States Senator
down to the smallest office In the
county. There will be no convention
'of any kind for the selection of any
candidates. The voters themselves
will choose the candidates. Party
committeemen will "also be selected
at the August primaries. Petitions
of candidates for this primary muBt
be filed 60 days before the date of
the primary election.
. At this August primary will be
chosen candidates to? governor and
United States Senator, congressional
and legislative candidates, as well as
candidates for state and county of
fice and judicial positions.
The Ohio voter has something to
think about this year and he will
do well to begin his thinking now.
PtistlferoiiH politicians, factions, cli
ques ond special Interests can be sent
to the rear If the voters will do their
duty as cltlzeiiH. If bad and Income
petent men are named for office, It
will be bemuse voters are cureless
and Indifferent. The man who does
not Inform himself as to thti candi
dates and remains away from the
primaries has no right to kick if any
but clean, capable men are nominat
SHERIFF CET8 THE CASH
ShcrllT I'uinphrey returned home Inst
Sut in ln v 1 1 out Monro", Mull,, where ho
went the TiK'Nilny previous on ii search
for John Fox, n Helgljtn, wanted here for
obtaining money utiutr false pretenses,
lti.-tt-iul of bringing tin- mil ii. Shcrln" 1 "ii in -
phicy wax able to hi Inn $17t In cuah ua
it settlement of the rime.
I ii tin iiierly lived on ii farm went or
town unit utter giving ii chattel men (mine
on h horse, sold the nnlmiil uml skldooetl
THE GRIM REAPER
Mrs. lan Kellers, n former resident of
this county died last Monday morning at
her home In lildgcvlllc, Intl., following a
lingering Illness from a compllcuton of
troubles. She with her liushand and
family went to Hldgevllle four years ugo
Her liushand, several chllrren and n mini
her of other relatives survive, The hody
was brouuht to Cellini Wednesday lifter
noon and tuken to thu Kviingelicai church
where Tuneful services were heltl. with
ltv. Luther Addliigttm. of liidgevillc. In
chtrge. Interment' ut Hopewell township
cemetery.
Forest Dale, th 17-year-old son oi Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Johnson. South Sugar
street, died at 11:15 last Monday morning,
us the result ot lockjaw, which followed
in Injury sustained two weeks previous,
when he (Implied a heavy piece of Iron
upon his root.
Deceased was horn at Wabash. July liti,
H:tl, and came to this city with his par
ents when a hahy. Besides his parents.
he Is survived hy one sister. .Mrs. m
l:cedatiz and one brother Homer.
1-uncial services were held Wednesday
afternoon.
J. L. Wills, aged 75 years, who was ad
judged Insane two weeks ago and tuken
to the State hospital at Toledo, died there
last unday.
Deceased was born in Durise county
hut had been a resident of this county for
the past thirty years. He Is survived by
six sons Charles, Klley, William, Harry
Jesse and Flic.
The renin inn were shipped to Montezu
ma, last Monday und taken to the home
of his son, Klley. run-riil services were
held Wednesday morning.
,
Harry I.elnlnger received a message lust
Saturday morning announcing the death.
at lioundlie.-id, of Mrs. George Tunncyhill.
which occurred on last Friday.
Deceased was R resident of this cilv for
several years and wil Ihe remembered by
i number ol our people. I-nil nil services
wru held Sunday afternoon.
Mrs. Karl Drake, aged twenty years
died Sunday evening about ten o'clock lit
the home of her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Asa Craft, residing north of Mendon. Tne
deceased was a niece of Mr. and Mrs. V.
T. Hudson. Ash street this city. The ex
act cause of her death Is not known
tinnng her local friends. Mrs. Drake was
married a short time ago. She Is surviv
ed by her husband, parents, live brothers.
two sisters unu many oiner relatives linn
friends. The funeral services will be held
Wednesday afternoon at the baptist
church noi til of Mendon. Interment will
he made III the adjoining cemetery. Mrs.
W". T Hudson has been at the Craft res
idence since last Thursday. St. Marys
Argus.
Gladys Lucile, the Infant daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Bock, living west of
town, died Wednesday evening, billowing
boil Illness. Brief funeral services
will be held at the Bock home, followed
by services ut Ihe Lutheran church in this
-. The pastor, liev. Kelt, will oltl-
ClAt.
VILLAGE CLERK WINTER STRICKEN
Village Clerk John M. Winter sustained
a slight stroke of appoplexy, shortly af
ter noon last Friday, and for several
hours his condition was critical. He ral
lied, however, in the evening and Is im
proving as well as can be expected. Air.
Winter is pust sixty years of age,
ELECTRIC
MOTOR TRAINS ON C.
& D. R. R.
H.
1'lans lire now on foot to operate elec
tric motor Ipa Ins on the C. H. &. D. A.
I! brunch between Dnvton und Mundale.
running through Delphos ad Spencerville,
lohn ). Knmer a Celina attorney unu
Judge Dennis Dwyer of Dayton, are said
to have secured an option proposition
from the eoniuunv for the rental of the
line to take over the passenger, mall and
express business.
Under the plan being lormuianea, tne
company will run three or four curs each
way daily, curs manuiuruirea oy me
Central liilectric company with three se
parate coiiipiu'tnients, one for baggage,
express and man, a smoKing compart
ment und a ladies' compartment will be
used. Commercial clubs of the vurious
towns along the route have been usked
ot express their opinion upon the propo
sition. Sidney Journal.
BASE BALL DOPE
W. H. Craig, better known here as
"Bill" a former Celina boy, and one
time third baseman on the Celina
ball team, writes us this wek from
Lowell, Wis., enclosing a clipping
rrom the Chicago, 111., Sunday Her
ald, of April 16. Will in his letter
says:
"I clipped this out of to-day's pap
er and not knowing if it will be seen
at Celina, will send it to you. Have
n't been back to Celina for over a
year.
The clipping referred to is as fol
lows: Christian Frederich Albert John
Henry David Betzel is trying to make
a name for himself In baseball as the
successor of Miller Huggins.
Christian Frederich Albert John
Henry David Betzel is not the whole
Betzel family. Besides Mr. and Mrs.
Betzel there are in Celina, O., other
Betzels, but none so famous as Chris
tian" Frederich Albert John Henry
David.
Paradoxically speaking, he's the
biggest of the Betzels, although he's
thu smallest. Sans shoes' he reaches
a height of 5 feet 6 Inches and can
move the beam to 158 pounds. ,
But when he throws that 15
pounds of dynamic energy Into his
swing he can move the old ball to
the outer reaches of the park. Last
year he hewed out twelve doubles
and four triples, although he didn't
play In more than two-thirds of tho
(Continued on Eighth Page)
BOYS
And Girls Who Desire to En
ter Junior Contests
In Corn and Domestic Science
Must Meet at Court-House To
Morrow Some Pointer.
.ill M 'lcer futility Isiys and girls who
hiiv wilcrcd and do enter the Corn uml
Domestic N'icncc Contests for the ensu
ing cai. wi'l assemble at the Court risini
In I Ins ; at Hi o'clock to-morrow (Snt
1 1 1 1 1 a , i morning and orgaiiixt- it dainty
lunior ntilcs Club, under the auspices
of H i I ii ' hi of Junior Contests of Ihe
I .(,!, I oi ,'.f, uii'ti.rc ot Ohio.
In addition to the Isiys and girls who
enter the n iitcls fur IMti all persons who
have Mil-Milled or plcilt;cd funds lowunis
OIK (r an.! pull (t one or Illllle lllps to
, ti:-hin-lou or lie Ifuckeie Corn Tour,
tU pi eMl;ir i-iln-cr of till urgit n I .a I ions
who have ,ile'l): d all. funds towards one
ii: iiiiiie tri'S. all t-i'i u-l iideins, princi
pals mid teachers ol schools, county
tlgclil., editors of llewspn pels who have
sc"o'ict the contests of I'.ilil. and secre-tar-H
.,1 Ihe County V. M. C. A. who
b ive sobclied and hchs'd firocure funds
for a tup or trips shall be eligible lo mem
ber hip in the organizations.
.'Ii.jm rii'ti intents, principals and tcuch-els-of
schools, secretaries of Ihe County
V. l. C. A, persons subscribing funds fur
a trip uml all friends of the Junior Con
tests nre requested to cordially urge all
boy, and birls lo make entries uud be
sine to attend t'.e ineetliiK to-morrow,
ami imiiiediale.y upon assembling
promptly al ii:iiu a. m., let some one eli
gible to membership cull the iissfinhly to
order and see that those eligible lor mcm-
bi rship lire sciitttl liigthcr. Any one not
eligibl lo membership shall have no purt
hi any of the proceedings.
The election of u temporary president
ami ii temporary secretary w'HI lie the llrst
order of business of the meeting.
Only boys und girls who huve entered
the I ontests shall he eligilile to hold ol
llcos of President, Vice-president, Secre
tary or Treasurer. Members of the Coun
ty Junior Contest Club, other than bo s
and girls, limy be elected members of the
Kxcculive Committee, i-ut this does not
bar any Isiy or girl contestant from being
elected to membership on this Committee.
1 he llrst duty ol the temporary organ
ization will be to have all Isiys and girls
w ho have entered the contests or who en
ter on this day at llii smeetlng (und all
oilier persons who uie eligible to mem-
rsiilpi sign tne enrollment sheets.
These persons Is-eome members of the
County Junior Contest Club.
i'he enrollment of the members will be
made in two sheets one list to be re
tained by the secretary und one list, to
getiier with u list of the ollicers us filled
in Ihe blank on tint reverse Nlde of the
enrollment sheet, ii to b furnished to tiie
Director oi junior contests imiiieuiaiuiy
after the meeting on April 22.
riie next order ol" business will be read
ing the rules.
file secretary will (ill out the blank
curciully on I tie reverse side of the en
rollment shed. At the noon hour or dur-
a rcess. the lioard of Directors should
hnve a meeting to lay plans and present
Ihcni II the ciiid convenes.
Kntries In the Corn (.rowing Contests
will till remain open until June 10, llHli.
when these entries will close. 'Kntries in
thu Domestic Science Contest will close
October 10, 1'IKi.
'ersons who enter these contests ut any
tone become auotmutically members of
tin? County Junior Contest Club. Any
boy or girl who discontinues the regular
fork of the Contest at any time during
the 5'eur Is automatically dropped from
membership in this Club.
On the third Saturday of July, nt 11):
in., each County Junior Contest Club
will elect two buys from its county to at
tend the Sl;ite Fair for a whole week ut
ihe i xpense and under the direction of
the. Koard of Agriculture of Ohio. No
more than one ol the two boys shall be
from the same township in each county
except where only one township may be
represented on the date ol election in the
Contests eonductd by the Hoard of Agii
cult ur.
'Think three times before you plant
tmce: then think three times und culti
vate," is the motto of the Ohio Stute
Hi, aid of Agriculture.
Misses Krma und Helen Jackson pleas
nntly entei tallied the I. K. U. club lust
Monday evening. After the sewing hour
progressive dominoes were pluyed with
I a vol's falling to Mrs. Wm. Aller, Mrs.
Win. Brown. Miss Lulu Orr and Miss
Margarte Quimby.
There will be a social dance at the
Hii-rbolzer hall at Coldwater next Tues
day evening, tlie 25th. Music by the trio
orchestra.
ILI-JLUCK FOLLOWS THEM
fDecatur Democrat
Jacob Goldblocls. of Cincinnati, a
horse buyer famed over the Central
Stat;s. was seriously injured in an
automobile accident three miles east
of Decatur, Wednesday at 4 o'clock
when the Ford in which he was be
inp brought to Decatur from Celina,
O., turned over.
The driver of the car, Ferd Krie-
gel of Celina, had his knee badly la
cerated and was shaken up consider
ably by the jolt, being unconscious
for fifteen minutes. Goldberg has
no bbnes broken but is bruised all
ovrir. He is at the Murray hotel in
care of friends.
Witnesses of the accident say the
car swerved unsteadily jjnd took to
the ditch where it toppled over. They
rushed to the scene of the accident.
finding Krlegel unconscious, and
Ooldlilock attempting to crawl out of
tho wreckage. Goldblock recently
came out of a1 hospital from a six
weeks stay for a broken nip. Kriegel
just left the hospital last .Thursday
after a long siege of brain fever.
Kriegel speaking of the accident
last night said that he was running
along at 18 miles an hour when the
machine struck a rut. This broke
the bolts on the steering gear leav
ing the machine free to climb any
thing in sight. That's all Krigel re
members. Luther Howre, machinist
at the Kalver-Noble garage, who in
vestigated the machine thoroughly
when it was brought in said this
mornnig that the gear was all right
and that some other cause" for- the
accident existed.
The machine I sthe prdperty of the
Chivington livery 3table of Celina,
O. It had Its top badly brokn up and
the upper gear was damaged to some
extent. The machine was in shape
to run under its own power and this
morning a local chauffer drove the
car home taking Kriegel along. Dr.
Earl Coverdale, attending Mr. Gold
block Bald that his condition while
serious need not necessasjly be fatal,
as no bones were broken and there is
little evidence of Internal Injuries.
He was badly bruised however.
"Shop at The Little Shop.'
JOHN HATTER V, HOSPITAL INTERNE
TAKES UP PRACTICE WITH
FATHER HERE
Dr. John I lattery, now it hospital In
terne ut Columbus, und his wile will move
to this clly within the next month, where
the former will enguge In the practice or
licine wllh his lather, Dr. J. I.. Hai
ti i v. one of the oldesl, best known uud
mo t successful prai'lloneis of Ihe clly
und c. .uiily. The Junior I lattery has
rented the Smith residence ut the corne
of Livingston mill Cherry streets, now oc
cupied by Jeweler (ieu. Weber and fam
iH. The liiiler huve rented tin- Arthur
llchrlniicr hiinculow In Klin Home mldl
lion. Cast l ull-ill stieel, uml will move
then- during the ensuing week.
NEW MANSOl EUM AT CATHOLIC
CEMETERY
The Auglaize Mausoleum Co., of Wfipu-
kniiclii. this week begun excavating at
the Catholic cemetery III this cit, for the
li. -w M , I --ili-ii 1 1 to b built ii lithal liurv
lug ground Tlie structure will contain
one hundred mid forty-lour cr)pls.
Con inon I'l.-us Judk-e Miller yesterday
morning confirmed the sale and ordered
il-ed miiile lo purchase In the partition
in 1 1. in of Charles 1. I, older against Kay
uion.l Holder et al.
A motion was sustained for alimony
imIiii.: suit and $io alimony allowed de
fend. ini In tlie divorce case of W. K
,(,,. v. Kiisi-lla AllMire, heard by Judge
Miller last Saturday. The divorce action
has been assigned for hearing on May 22.
Judge Miller last Friday granted (horgi
Irficnn a divorce from biv wife, Mabel Iai-
gi.n on the ground of willful! absence.
Owing to the fact that Fail l:holt this
i-i'k plead guilty lo currying conceuli
weapons, the petit jury widen nuu oeen
li re,! lo coniene ncM .iioinciy morning
at nine o'clock lo hear tlie casi'liave lieen
r.ntillcil thai their services mill not b
needed until tin- same hour Tuesday
lie. I lung when the case ol the Westell
Lie. -trie company vs. The Celina Hard
wood ALg. Co. has been assigned lor Uliil
The ucllon of Alva Kittle, executor of
the i slr.ie of Jacob W. K il tic, vs. Susan
no Kittle, was heard before l'robuti
. Inline K'ludaUillu'll last Saturday liioin-
ill--. The court bad made an allowance
of 7nu per year for the support and main-
ti'iiaiice of the defendant, and tlie plain
tiff a.-ked that tin allowance he reduced.
The exceptions were overruled and the
allowance permitted to remain us it was.
Furl Kbolt. who the llrst of last week
plead not guillv to an indictment return
ed by Jhe April grand Jury, charging him
with carrying concealed weapons, appear
ed before Common I'leas Judge Miller last
Friday afternoon and changed his plea to
guilty. The court sentenced him to trom
one to' three years in the State t'enitenti
ury, but suspended the sntnc condition
ally. II wus released on probation.
Clem Harden, of Ft. Kecovery. who last
week plead not guilty to an imuctmeiit
returned by" the April Common I'leas
Grand Jury', charging him with nssoult
w ith intent to rape, appeared before Judge
.Miller again lust Tuesday und changed
his ph a lo guilty, lie was .sentenced to
an iiiderierminate period of from one to
llfteen years In Hie Oliio State I'.eforma
lur. He was taken to Munslield by
Sheriff I'umpliiey yesterday morning.
EX-SHERIFF FISHER TO BUILD
Kx-Slit-riff Shell M. Fisher has removed
Hie small cottage from the west side of
his i:.i:t Livingston street lot. to n lot
in KMn Grove mldit ion, Hast Fulton street,
inn' it will be converted into a mat
dwelling. The house Mr. Fisher ut pre
sent occupies will he moved to tile west
side of the lot und he will erect a hand
Minie new bungalow on the site it now
occupies, ii'lioining Hie itlley.
J.i: per Kiser. of Kockfon, who has been
In jail since February 4, serving a Jail
seinciice on a non-support charge was re-lia.-ed
jcslcrday under a suspended sen
tence. ..-A
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
Thf (ollowing clipping was taken
from the Decatur (Ind.) Herald of
lust week regarding the approaching
marriage of a prominent Mercer
county girl:
"Don Sheets of lioot township, son
of Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Sheets, has re
turned from Celina, Ohio, after mak
ine; all arrangements for his wedding
which will take place soon. He will
be married to a Mercer county young
lady, who resides near Celina.
Tlie young people of Hoot township
have known for some time that the
couple would be married and Satur
day wlien Don left for Celina, believ
ed that he might return w-ith his
bride. They anxiously awaited his
return, but soon learned that the
event was one of the near future in
stead of the past, the groom-to-be an
nouncing the approaching ceremony.
Mr. Sheets is an excellent young
man, deserving and wen nueu. his
many friends will be glad to extend
best wishes, even if it is a little in ad
vance. He is now empioyeu on me
Robert Mann farm in Root township.'
Miss Marie Clieen and Don Snyder, two
well known people, were kuietly married
ut Portland) Tuesday, the ceremony be
ing performed bv Kev. Stovenour at his
parsonage. The bride Is a daughter ot
Mr. and Mrs Hiram ureen and is a grau
uate of the Public schools. The groom Is
cnterni is nii young lat mer. They will
make their home on a farm near Mt. Zion
owned by the groom. The young couple
have the best wishes of a host of friends.
Ft. Kecovery Tribune-journui.
Howard I.ohrentz and Miss Ola HInton,
well known people of this city, went to
Kentucky last Tuesday morning, where
they were quietly married by Rev Koe-
nig. former pastor oi ine lietnany ejvan
gelical church, this city. They Were ex
pected home lust night.
Hanns were published for the first time
at the Catholic Church ut Sebastian last
Sunday, announcing the coming marri
age of Julian Mestemaker and Miss Mol-
lie Dorslen. of that parish. All-. Meste
maker is a prominent young Marion town
ship farmer, und u brotner ot Mrs. J. I.
Steinhruiiner, Fust Livingston street, In
this city.
Friends here have received announce
ments of the coining marriage oi Miss
F.vu Howard and Cooper Metzger, both of
Celimt. The cererjiony will be performed
at the home of tlie bride's parents, Mr.
and Mm, C. W. Howard. After the mar
riage they will leave on a wedding trip
to Texas. The bride Is well known nere.
having: been a former resident of this city.
The groom is a telegraph operator at tne
W. station at celina.. f t. neco-
very Tribune-Journal.
Henrv Boroff, an employee of the furn
iture factory and Miss Lela Brandon, dau
ghter of Mrs. Lou Wourms, were united in
marriage by 'Suulre Htubbs at the Pro
bate judges omce last nuysuay atter-
noon.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Don Snvder. 2:1. farmer, Portland. Ind..
son of Kmanuel Snyder, and Maria Green,
20. housekeeper. Ft. Kecovery, daughter
of Hiram Ureen. Kev. Stovenodr.
Homer Roebuck. 24. clerk. Rockford.
son of tieorge Koebuck, and Hitzel Kber
sole. IS. hausekeeper. Kockford. daughter
of William Ebersole. Kev. Ames,
GREAT
Rally of Junior C. E. Socie
ties of County
To Take Place In ThU Clly on
28th- Prominent Stale Offl
claU lo Be Present.
On Friday afternoon of next week ut
the Pieshylei inn church III (Ylliiu, from
I t.'ii) to 4:iitl o'clock the Junior societies of
this cuiinty will convene for Hie first Jun
lor rally Mercer county has ever liud.
Tin- Slate Superintendent Miss Pearl ...
Smith, will Is; Ihe speaker. Considering
her ability, pleasing personality, exper
ience, end love for children, she will Is
the greatest Inspiration the Junior Fn
deavorcis lit this county have ever led.
There arc i.au Junior societies of C. I-;.
in i iliio. ol which she Is Superintendent.
parents ate not only wclcninc, but are
urgently Inviled to come. Watch these
children. The plants to have the Junior
rall over wllh bv 4 o'clock so those wild
c.iniiol slay for the evening session can
get home in good tune.
There is going to be a beautiful Junior
banner awarded to tile Junior sucielv tii.it
lias the blt-.gesi turn out of their mem
bers present at the afternoon session.
Surely no junior can uliord to miss this.
There ure Junior societies nl Mendon,
Koiklord, liurntwond, .Montezuma und a
imhI live one al Celina. which will prove
1 lientsch es a .-plt'lulld hostess to the Jun
iors ol the count! llcnieiiiner, Illinois.
i ins is ror you. It'a a treat that you
won't get every tnolilll. or every ear, lor
Miss Sin th Is it very busy person. Hav
ing linn Junior societies to look uiler be-
nles a nuiniier ot lu(ermcniuie socicues.
The evening session Will be tho mass
meeting session o line rally, everyone
lull-rested lii young people's work come.
There are LT, V. P.. S. C. I-:., tola Dig ov-
i, nil active inemlM-rs, In this county
The Montezuma (Jrchesiru will pi
play,
furnish
The Celina C. K. Society will
special music.
Kev. (irani w. f-peer, loit-uo, who i
b e President of the Ohio C. I inon
and a very interesting man. as well it.-.
great favorli with the young people.
will lie the other speaker.
F. ANNIVERSARY MEET
The local I. O. O. F. lodge will hold an
anniversary meeting nl then- nail in t.-(u
o'clock next Monda.i evening. An address
Will be given bv Kev. Sella (Ter, or the
I'n-sln lerlan church. F.verybody cordial
ly invited to attend.
WILLIS
(;eri-jiii!iii(ler Appeal Didn't I'ai-e
Well Willi Snpr e Court
People Have Some ItightH
Columbus, O., April 18. The Su
preme Court late thin afternoon up
held the referendum last fall which
defeated the Sprasue ConfiTCeKional
redisricting act.
The Supreme Court refused the
application of David Davis of Cin
cinnati, who sought the mandamus
Secretary of State Hildebrandt to
instruct all election officials to dis
regard the Congressional gerryman
der enacted by the Democratic Leg
islature two years afio and to act in
accord with the provisions of the
Sprague measure. The court's de
cision does not disturb present poli
tical conditions.
In announcing its ruling the
court held that a referundum on a
Congressional gerrymander does not
violate the Federal constitution.
Tlie court ruled that such a referen
dum constitutes a part of the State's
legislative machinery. Attention
was directed by the court to an act
of Congress- passed in 19X1 which is
construed as authorizing a referen
dum on a Congressional 'gerryman
der. The court's action was unani
mous. Argument in support ot tne
pplication for mandamus was pre
sented by Attorney J. Warren Kei-
fer of Springfield and former United
States District Attorney Sherman T.
McPherson of Cincinnati. The suit
was opposed by Attorney General
Turner, former Attorney General
Ilogan, former Governor Campbell
and Attorney Edmond H. Moore of
Youngslown, member of the Demo
cratic National committee.
POLITICAL
Hon. James D. Johnson, Celina,
was in Ottawa, this week. He is a
candidate tor Judge of Court of Ap
paels. He has many personal friends
in Putnam county. lie call's atten
tion to the fact that there are 16
counties in this Judicial District.
The East half of the Distrcit now has
all three of the Judges. He wants
the West half to have one-third of
the court at least. Mr. Johnson is
a successful lawyer of long exper
ience Ottawa Sentinel.
The democratic executive commit
tee met at the tax commissioners of
fice last Friday afternoon and select
ed J. H. Harting, of St. Henry, as a
member of the deputy county board
of elections to fill the vacancy caus
ed by the resignation of H. F. Lem-
ke, who is a candidate for county
treasurer.
Mr. Harting is the right man in
the right place and his selection is an
excellent one. It has been a long
time since the democrats of the south
part of the county have had a repre
sentative on the board and they are
all glad that Mr. Harting got this
honor and feel that the executive
committee did the proper thing, to
thus honor him. Thanks, gentlemen.
Attorney John G. Romer, of Celi
na, has been chosen as the choice or
the committee as a candidate for the
clerkship. Here's hoping that Mr.
Romer wins out. Coldwater Chroni
cle.
WELL KNOWN CELINA DRUO fIRM
DISSOLVE PARTNERSHIP
liriiggli-t W, W. Iligbt jerciduy after
noon I'lirt based the interest of his part
ii. . I A I I, ,i,i I n,, I In Hie Kexi.ll stole.'
corner Main und Mm ki t streets. This
corner is one of the ls-st business sites
in town, and the store has iilwus main
tained it giaid drug biisinesa, Mr. Iligbt
is one of the Is-st dlllggists In the city
and will no tlould K-t Ids share of Ihe
till ' lll ss. Mr. Hoaglalid Will lellle from
active business, und usstiliit- ownership
and colli nil ol Fdgcw aler Park, jusl east
of town.
CALVIN HUMPHRIES GIVFN PROMO
TIONLEAVES CELINA
Calvin lluinplujse, who for the past se
veral years has been acting as assistant
agent fur the I.. I-:, it W. in Ibis illy,
bus been promoted to (In- po.Mtion as
ii;enl al Albany, Ind He left Monday to
l.il-e up bis llcw' duties.
"helloll"
TITLE Or PLAY TO BE GIVEN TUES
DAY NIGHT UNDER DIRECTION
OF W. HUBERT BRETZ
The local Aerie, Fraternal Order Fug
les will on next Tuesday night present t
Ihe opera house John A. lllinmlein's fit-
inoti.i three-ui-t comedy, entitled ' Hello
Kill", ghdi wilh spi.-( iulty royulty per-inis-ioni
of tlie uutlior, und under the per
sonal diicctioii lo W. II. Ilret., Jr., assist
ed by lie- be.-t show talent of the city.
Tlie ucllon of this comedy takes pluce
il Si u ide, L. 1., some time during the
St. i in ii .Unci lean war, is-jb. iieuo uui
in mi way alludes to the Order of Klks.
The cast Includes:
W U 111 tit I'tllier, "Kill
'. . . W. Huls-rt Bret
..John shlverdecker
.... A.-ihley springer
Curl Hoyng
Fixer
. . . Brun urt Gilberts
Vule Meyer
Ned Hemingway. . .
l-r. 1 1 -1 ins-
Jen. m. I tiller. . . .
t in i.- lopher Culling.
A Slieiill...
A.vlum
i.e lie H.lll
Keeper.
.curl .Morrow
uileiward Mrs. Bill Full
Cay le Slices
lioiothy I Hue Hilda Schmllt
Harriet Sterling liuelah Ucscll
.Mis. W in. I Ull. r .Mildred l.alldalin
Mary, a m i vanl Anna Kruudelt
Kescrved seals are now on sale at
Pn U .V: .Meyer s Clothing More. Admis
sion, Ju cents.
KICKED IN HEAD BY HORSE
Ilomeo Vorhces. an employee of the
Montezuma Fertilizer company, was ren
dered unconscious about ten o'clock last
Tuesday morning, when he was kicked
hy u horse. He was doing some work in
the stall when kicked, tlie hoof striking
Mning ot bees just back of the right ear.
BUYS CRON PROPERTY
Clerk Ibo. A. I'.-trie, of Die Board or
f'tinllc Affairs, this week purchased one
of Ihe Cron houses on Fast Fulton street,
and will move into it in the near future.
W. H. & F. M. SOCIETIES .
TO MEET AT ROCKFORD
i
The Woman's Home and Foreign
Missioinary Societies of Lima Pres
bytery will convene in the thirty
ninth annual meeting, April 25th and
2Glh, 1!I1G at Rockford, Ohio.
Names of delegates Ao be sent to
Mrs. J. W. Frysinger, Rockford ,for
entertainment.
TUESDAY, April 25, 2:30 p. in.
Call to order Mrs. Black.
Minutes of 1915 Mrs. Clark.
Devotions Mrs. A. A. Griffes.
Roll Call.
Solo Mrs. J. B. Fair.
The story of the year told by the
Ollicers.
Evening Session
7:30 Rev. Arthur A. Grift'es, pre
sident. Music by tlie choir.
Missionary Exercise Rcokford
Light Bearers.
Address 'Women of Hind' Miss
Alice Wishward.
Field Secretary Woman's Board
of F. M. Benediction.
WEDNESDAY, April 26
9:00 a. m. Power for service
Miss Wishard.
9:30 a. m. Words of Welcome
Mrs, C. S. Behymer.
Response Mrs. T. K. Jacobs.
10:00 a. in. Conference.
Missionary Education Mrs. N. W.
Hankemeyer.
Field Secretary Woman's Board H.
M. Bring your problems to this con
ference for discussion.
11:00 .a m. Music. Ladies'quar
tette, Rockford.
Paper 'Lil Black Sheep' Mrs.
3. G. Dunning.
Prayer. Luncheon. '
Wednesday A ftei'iioon
1:30 Report of nominating com
mittee. Address 'A Message from the
Homeland' Mrs. Hankemeyer.
Duet Mrs. Fair and Mrs. Stokes.
Report of Committee on Resolu
tions. Offering. Place of next meeting.
MY BUST INVESTMENT
Farm and Fireside offered prizes
for the best answers to the question
"What was your best investment?"
The answers to the question were
most varied and interesting. One
was a bushel of clover seed bought at
$12 which enabled the purchaser to
harvest a 28-ton crop and J160 worth
of seed. Another invested $150 in
a carload of drain tile and reclaimed
three acres of land worth $100 per
acre. A third man bought $25 worth
of fertilizer and increased his wheat
yields from 10 bushels per acre to 25
bushels.
Dr. Guy Eugene Noble, of St.
Marys and Miss Hazel Kelchner, of
Lima, were uuited in marriage at 1
p. m., Monday, April 17th, 1916, at
Trinity Methodist church parlor, Li
ma. Rev. Fuller solemnized the rites.
The sole attendants were Dr. Walter
A. Noble, of Columbus, and Miss Ada
Becker, Lima. St. .Marys Leader.
Have you seen "The Little Shop"?
ACTION
Council cn Main Market
Road 11, West
Of
Ignored by Commissioners Bond
Issue Authorized for Strip In
ter County Road In South.
Tin- Hoard last week determined
that the Buxton road in Center town
ship rhould be constructed and im
proved over and along the following
'route:' Beginning at the northwest
confer of Section 18, Center town
ship; Ih'-nce east following a public
highway about one-half mile to the
line bi-lwet-n EUa Buxton and Joe
Cam's land; thence Miutb along said
line to u point directly west of the
Cain bridge; thence eaHt to the Cain
bridge; thence following said public
Llrhway east through Sections 18,
17 and 16, to a point in Section 15,
where said public highway intersects
tlie old Ft. Wayne road and there
terminate.
The Board found in favor of the
Koiirath ditch in Washington town
ship, and determined upon the fol
lowing route: Commencing about 40
rods west of the center of Section 22,
at a tile ditch, following said water
course to about 20 rods north of pike,
or where ditch runs along east side
of woods; said ditch to be tiled to
this point. From there on to the
Wabash to be cleaned out as an open
ditch. They also ordered that the
op n branch front the east be cleaned
out for about 200 feet. They also
granted the extusion as petitioned for
by G. L. Adams, said extension to be
tiled. They also fixed June 30, at 1
p. in., at the Commissioners office as
the time for hearing all final matters
on the improvement.
The Board found in favor of the
Severns, the Baltzell and the Ander
son road improvements, and ordered
their construction and improvement
over tlie following routes:
Severns Beginning at the north
east corner of Section 11, Union
Union township; thence south one
mile, between Sections 11 and 12,
and there terminate.
Baltzell Beginning at the north
east corner of Section 9, Union town
ship; thence west on and along a
public road between Sections 9 and
4, 8 and 5, same township, to the
northwest corner of Section 8 and
there terminate.
Anderson Beginning at the south
east corner of Section 11, Union
township, thence south following a
public highway, on the section line
between Sections 13 and 14, 23 and
24, a distance of about a mile and a
half and there terminate.
The Board requested the State
Highway Commissioner to cause sur
ves, plans and estimates made on
St. Marys-Ft. Wayne inter-county
highway 173, over the following
route: Beginning at the Dublin
Blackcreek township line and follow
ing said highway west to the inter
section of the Mercer-Van Wert coun
ty line and there etiminate.
The Board adopted a motion au
thorizing that the survey of Main
Market road No. 11, west, begin at
the west corporation line of Celina;
thence west to the west quarter post
of Section 2, Jefferson township.
This action was taken without any
consideration of the resolution pass
ed by the Village Council last week,
requesting that the improvemnt be
gin at Main street, this city, although
the Board's attention was called to
the matter by Auditor Steinbrunner.
The following amounts were order
ed transferred from the various funds
to the County Fund: From the Aud
itor's fund, $2,000; traesurer's fund,
$8,000; sheriffs fund, $2,000; record
er's fund, $2,000; probate judge's
fund, $2,000; clerk's fund $2,000.
A resolution was passed to issue
bonds in the sum of $12,500 to pay
the county's share of the costs and
expenses of construction the 3.08
miles of the Celina-Greenville lnter
county highway between Marion and
Granville townships.
The Board fixed Monday, April 24,
at 9 a. m. at the Commissioner's offi
ce for the time of hearing the assess
ments on the Hook joint ditch.
PERSONAL
Mrs. Marie Harmes nnd daughter, or
Tilido, are guesis of Attorney and Mrs.
F.d L. Bryson, East Market street.
Mrs. A. J. Bearinger and family, Merce
lina Park, are home from a several weeks
visit w ith her parent at Wheeling, West
Virginia.
Mrs. George D. Hartzell was called to
Hudson, Mich., last Saturday by the ser
ious illness of bt-r daughter, Fay, who
lias nu attack og pneumonia.
Miss Ruth Desch, who has been ateliid
ing college at Titiin, is here for an Kas
ter vacation visit with her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Desch, West Market
street.
Mesdames E. E. Stephenson, Ed Mlesse
and VV. H. Thomas will entertain the la
thes' aid society of the M. K. church, at
bet church parlors, this afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. George Nungester arriv
ed hiijiie last FYitiay evening from a sev
eral monllis' sojourn In Florida and Cuba.
SHAKSPHERE CLUB ELECTS OFFI
CERS Miss Myrtle Crockett, East Market St.,
was hostess to the Shaksphere club last
Friday evening. An election of officers
us held which resulted as follows;
President, Aliss Mabel McDonald.
Vice President. Miss Myrtle Crocked
Secretary, Miss Fern KHUdaitaugh
Treasurer, Miss Lucy McDonald.
