S\ of f \\\\ JT f| f 111 ll i8!B lll l l liiill
a&UJJwU ~ iwAW/fcSS WM&Z LCv 3
\ EAR. No. ss.
I)KA1, FINELY CLOSED.
ili. ut going to press last
ilo' pending deal by which the
ni Shyer & Enloe, of Spokane,
hHc to take over the Similkameen
|H(ri plant was 'Mil pending. An uu
aiding as to the consideration
|||Hh. paid had been reached, but as
pa pci s had not I signed up
wmm sale was not actually closed. Sat-
a Until understanding was
■■( bed and the power and light plant
out of the hands of the old
into the new.
|||H!oi having met Mr. Enloe who ne-
B|Hiai-'d the deal for the firm, we arc
mjm in a position to announce the poli-
the new owners, but it is pre
■Bicil that extensile and much need-
Bimprovements will bo made in or
in tiring the plant up to a proper
|Hivi uf efficiency, for the old plant
of date and very much run
especially the buildings. Messrs.
IgHycr ,V Enloe already own and oper
i|H an electric power plant located on
Met bow I Her. known as the Oka-
n Valley Power company, that
a|Hnislies light and power to several
in this county. The purchase of
Similkameen power plant w'as a
stroke mi the part of Messrs.
Enloe. as the Methow plant
■Hnished a very unsatisfactory ser-
Hi' last winter, and the new posses-
protides them with a never fail-
supply of power, that can be t.rans-
HHtleil any distance, because the
itHHver is there to handle. They now
one of the best water powers in
sialiy and are in a position to sup-
any amount of service the devel-
of the country may demand.
Similkai I’ovver company
Bs organized a dozen years ago by
late .1. M llageny, who located
power site, erected the power
now used and installed the ma
liagerty estate held the largest in-
in tlie corporation, and the
were the only ones to secure
tiling from the sale, ns most of
purchase price had to go to meet
JHBheavy mortgage that fell due this
Owing to file fact that the
JHBnnto was undeveloped and spurse
■Hß settled tit the time the company
IBts organized there was little demand
||Br power and lights, about the only
Hi'oiim that the company could really
upon for years was the re-
for lighting Oroville. The com-
steadily faced an annual deficit
first few years of its existence, be-
heavily involved, and it was
JHw'olh on account of the acenmmuiated
that a sale was finally forced. At.
present time the plant is receiving
I income, and from the pros-
of rapid development, of the stir-
country it is bound to become
of large revenue.
BHThe plant is located at the falls of
iHc Similkameen, some three or four
west of Oroville, and nature has
St out of solid rock, through which
He river surges with terriffic violence
ideal power site. An immense horse
can be developed at the falls
a minimum cost, and by a system
!■ dams this power can be greatly in-
insuring ample power to
any and every demand in the fu-
The transfer is one of the most
deals that has ever taken
in the county, representing
of dollars, and if the new
install a modern plant the
can be made one of the most
power and light propositions
the state.
BENEFIT DANCE.
■ Next Friday evening. April 28, is the
Bite fixed for the High School Athletic
Bsociation benefit ball. The dance will
Bke place in the Orpheum and the
■rack Oroville orchestra will supply
Bio music. As has been stated in these
Bolumns in previous issues the asso
ciation is in the red for a considerable
■mount, and the proceeds of the dance
■ ill be applied toward placing the or
fcunization upon its feet financially. As
the boys have not solicited contribu
tions from the public during the season
pf sports, it is no more than fair that
kite public should respond liberally on
kins occasion. Those who dance will
receive full returns in the way of
[pleasure. Those who do not dance
should contribute freely and rest con
jtent in the knowledge that they have
[aided a very worthy cause.
Geo. I. Cole, who has demonstrated
his skill as a road builder in this part
of the county, states that he could
have done all the work accomplished
on State Hoad No. 10 south of Oroville
for $2,500, yet it cost the state $5,000,
or more, and by some mysterious ho
cus poems that has never been explain
ed several thousand dollars that was
appropriated for this end of the Job
was deflected somewhere else. So long
as that kind of a system is in vogue in
the expenditure of public road funds
the stiite is being systematically bun
coed, and the road systems of the state
will never be completed.
TO CELEBRATE.
Plans are being forumulated for a
public celebration of the’opening of the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation pro
ject about the first of June. These
plans have not taken definite shape as
yet, but suggestions are being solic
ited from various citizens as to what
line of attractions to present to enter
tain the expected crowd, and a pro
gram will be formulated from sugges
tions advanced. The opening of the
system, the actual turning on of the
water will be an event worthy of a
grand demonstration, and should at
tract a large gathering of people, not
only from the immediate surrounding
country, but from a distance. Invita
tions will be s*nt out to commercial
clubs, chambers of commerce and
prominent individuals all over the
state, and responses may be expected
in the way pf large delegations from
those bodies, and men of prominence
will no doubt take pleasure In being
present. This irrigation system is the
largest in the west that has been con
structed through the initiative of the
individual land owners and without
government aid, and as it waters one
of . the choicest sections of the state,
v.tih a future potentality in the way of
productiveness that cannot be surpass
ed anywhere, the official opening of
the system will be of unusual impor
tance and interest.
This celebration will be of a dual
character. Tonasket is as largely in
terested in the system as Oroville, and
will enjoy a large benefit from the
completion of the great work. Hence
the aim is to make the celebration a
two days affair, one day at Tonasket
and one day at Oroville. It Is expected
that the residents of Tonasket will par
ticipate in the Oroville celebration,
and the people of Oroville will recip
rocate by attending the Tonasket cele
bration en masse. It is a case where
mutual Interests should cement the
two communities, and stimulate the
residents of the towns to work in uni
son for one of the most interesting
and attractive double celebrations
ever held in the northwest. It can be
done, ami we feel confident that it will
be done.
TAKE WAHMMJ.
There is an ordinance in this town
even if not heretofore vigorously en
forced. that prohibits motor vehicles
from fast driving on the streets w'ith
in the corporate limits. Signs have
been placed warning drivers against
speeding. While this is of common
knowledge owners of motor vehicles
persist in making of the streets speed
ways, much to the danger of pedes
tiians and those who exercise some
common sense in driving cars. The
town marshal does not wish to cause
any one trouble, nor put them to un
necessary expense, but speeding must
be stopped, and he requests this pa
per to give public notice that he is
going to enforce the provisions of the
ordinance against fast driving. The
wise man will heed. The foolish man
will go on and get the’gaff.
HAST I’ll MUSK’.
The following tnuscal program will
be given in the Presbyterian church
on Sunday morning;
1— “The Lord is Risen.”
Miss Carrie R. Adams
2 "Triumphantly Sing." Ira B. Wilson
I!—"Hosanna in the Highest,”
John D. Creswell
4—“ Sing to the Lord a Glorious Song”
H. W. Petrie
Baritone Solo, S. B. Starrett
The numbers will include solos, du
etts and unison choruses.
TO ALL INTERESTED.
Fare of one and one-third from all
points in Wahington to the Repub
lican State Convention to be held at
North Yakima May 6th, Tickets may
be purchased lay 2nd to May 6th in
clusive.
Tickets may be purchased on the
certificate plan, full fare going and
one-third fare returning. Ticket agent
will instruct in regard to the proper
purchasing of these tickets.
IMPORTANT MEETING.
Members of the various committees
appointed to arrange for a district fair
at Oroville next fall are requested by
C. W. Smith, chairman of the Oroville
Fair Association, to meet In the li
brary building Saturday afteroon,
April 22. at 2:30 o'clock. It is import
ant that as many of the committeemen
attend as possibly can do so, as re
ports are to be made and further plans
considered for making the fair a suc
cess.
The latest news from Washington
indicates that this country will sever
diplomatic relations with Germany. If
that is the case there is room in this
country only for those who are in
heartly sympathy with and loyal to
America.
OROVILLE, WABUIN VTON. APRIL 21, 1910,
A MARK <»F CONFIDENCE.
E. E. Parsons, one of the members
of the board of school directors, in
forms the Gazette that the board is so
well satisfied with the excellent work
performed by the present staff of
teachers that they will all be retained
if they desire to continue serving in
the positions they are now holding. If
any changes take place it will be the
voluntary wish of the teacher. The
present corps of teachers will in all
probability resume their present posi
tions when school opens next fall,
with a single exception, and in that
case the delinquent will not lose her
department through any action of the
board. Her resignation can be charged
up to Dan Cupid. The position thus
left vacant will be tilled by Miss Dob
son who taught in Oroville during the
1914-15 term, and gave such excellent
satisfaction.
Wc wish to congratulate the hoard
upon their action in retaining the
present faculty. Under their faithful
and capable direction the Oroville
schools have made great progress dur
ing the past year. From inquiry It Is
ascertained that the prevailing senti
ment in the community is that this
has been one of the most successful
terms in the history of the local
schools and the record made by the
teachers has been highly satisfactory.
There has been a total absence of fric
tion in the school. The able staff has
worked in harmony and no complaints
have been registered by parents, which
has been too often the case in the past.
Better discipline has prevailed and
the scholars have made marked pro
gress in every department. The teach
ers as a body have won the respect
and confidence of both the pupils and
the parents and it will be a satisfac
tion and a pleasure to know that the
schools will be under the management
of such an able body of instructors for
another term. With a board of direct
ors bent on keeping the school up to
the highest standard, and a faculty
with an established record for effi
ciency and thoroughness, the Oroville
schools should attract many students
from the surrounding country during
the 1916-lt school year.
- ■ '*■ ■
—_ _
OFF FOK THE WILDS.
After visiting with his brother Har
ry for several days Geo. Bowerman,
formerly a resident of Orovllle, but
for several years living at Hedley,
left Tuesday for the Hudson Bay coun
try on a prospecting trip to be absent
all summer. This new mining region
has just commenced to attract atten
tion among mining men and investors.
Some enormous deposits of gold, sil
ver, copper and lead ores have been
discovered on the tributaries of the
Nelson and Churchill rivers, that emp
ties into Hudson bay. One. of these
mines has recently been sold for three
million dollars and others have chang
ed ownership for leaser sums. Burns
Bowerman. the youngest of the Bow
erman brothers, was fortunate In lo
cating claims on the extension of the
property sold for the largest sum
mentioned. Geo. Bowerman spent last
summer on the tributaries of the Nel
son river, so he does not go in wholly
as a stranger to the country. He had
an exciting experience in canoeing
for hundreds of miles, and his entire
outing was full of action, even if he
did not succeed in locating a rich
claim. He is making an earlier start
this year, aiming to get into the min
ing district by means of dog teams
over the Ice. Mr. Bowerman has had
many years experience as a pros
pector along and on both sides of the
Canadain boundary, and goes to this
virgin field a seasoned veteran in the
mining game.
REPUBLICAN CAUCUS.
Attention is again called to the re
publican caucus to be held Saturday
evening at 8:80 o’clock for the pur
pose of selecting 16 delegates to at
tend the republican county conven
tion *o be held at Brewster, Saturday
April 29. A full attendance of repub
lican voters is requested, and it is
hoped that every delegate chosen to
the county convention will make it a
point to be in Brewster on the 29th.
The three Oroville precincts are en
titled to 20 delegates, and if the full
representation should turn out Oro
ville would make a big the
convention.
Sometime during Tuesday night the
first through passenger train from
Wenatchee for tyvo weeks reached
Oroville, thus raising a blockade that
was very annoying to the public and
an expensive experience to the rail
road. During the protracted tie up
much of the express and mail that
usually comes by the way of We
natchee was routed around by the
way of Spokane. A special freight
train came up the line Tuesday night
to pick up belated freight along the
route.
FIRE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZED.
At the last meeting of the Commer
cial club A. E. McMahan was unani
mously chosen as chief of the propos
ed new Arc department, and the selec
tion was confirmed by Mayor Samson.
A meeting was held ut the town hall
Wednesday evening for the purpose of
further perfecting an active organiza
tion. By-laws and membership pledges
were read and adopted. Those present
endorsed the selection of Mr. McMa
han as chief, and l.ouis Drummer was
elected as secretary-treasurer. Some
18 members signed for service, and
there is no doubt that every one of the
four companies necessary to man the
apparatus will be tilled to the full
complement. It is the first time that
the towp has had a real fire protection
organisation and after it is finally in
shape the department will be prepared
to act Intelligently and effectively in
fighting fires. As there are two hose
carts, a chemical engine and hook and
ladder truck the department will make
quite a respectable showing when in
service.
Those interested in forming a de
partment were fortunate in selecting
Mr. McMahan as its head. He has had
experience as a fireman and fire chief,
and will take personal Interest in
working the department up to a cred
itable stale of efficiency. He has al
ready ihown great activity in starting
a plan of organization, and his zeal
will never flag nor will he neglect his
duties. He is deeply interested in bis
movement, not only as a property
owner but because he feels the great
necessity of a thorough orgnization,
without which the means of protec
tion against fire is almost useless. Mr.
McMahan desires all those who wish
to join the organization fo call at his
Jewelery store and sign up the articles
of agreement and be assigned to one
of the ‘ several companies.
ABREAST OF THE TIMES.
C. Schassberger, our enterprising
tailor, has installed a new and modern
electric clothes presser. The appear
ance of the cap, or top, of tills useful
pleceuf mechanism turns the mind to
riorttAiiy £ubject»r nt drat eight, as It
looks very much like the lid to a small
casket, but that unpleasant impression
passes away when the presser is seen
in action. The presser is so convenient
and expeditious in its operation that
pressing clothes becomes a pastime
instead of hard manual labor, and will
save the genial knight of the goose a
vast amount of elbow friction. The
garment is placed upon a press board,
the pressure of the foot brings the
board in contact with the casket-shap
ed cap, a turn of the wrist throws a
spray of steam upon the cloth, and
with the batting of an eye the trick
is turned, the garment being more
thoroughly and evenly smoothed out
than could be accomplished by the old
method. The heat and pressure requir
ed is supplied by electricity. Mr. Sch
assberger is an up-to-date merchant
tailor and is gradually equipping an
up-to-date tailoring establishment
that is a credit to the town, or any
town many times larger than Oroville.
TELEPHONE LINE.
in order to secure efflcent and
prompt care of the many miles of
ditches and flumes that parallel the
Okanogan river on both sides from
the boundary line to Tonasket, after
the system is turned over to the dis
trict and the ditch watchers have it in
charge, a telephone line will have to
be constructed, with stations at con
venient Intervals. This line has already
been installed between the head gates
and town, and will be built along the
route of the water flow as speedily as
possible. The district is making resi
dents in the valley an attractive offer,
and one If accepted and carried out,
would prove to be a great con
venience to many families. It proposes
that if the farmers and land owners
will deliver the poles where required
permission will be granted for the
stringing of a local wire on the same
poles. The cost of wire and construc
tion would be slight, and considering
the benefits to be derived from such a
service those interested should fake
steps at once to accept the proposi
tion.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. 11. Severance, Vicar.)
There will be no services on next
Sunday. Sunday school at the usual
hour of 12. Next service will bo held
on Sunday morning, April 30 at 11
a. m.
-
HOT CROSS BUN SALE
The ladies of Trinity Guild will bold a
hot cross Inin sale in the lobby of the
Hotel de Grubb this. Friday, afternoon.
Those who partook of the buns sold by
tins society a few weeks ago will be anx
ious to secure another supply. At that
time tlie quantity on hand could not meet
the demand. The ladles will endeavor to
have a sufficient stock this afternoon to
fill all orders.
A LIVELY MEETING.
One of the most satisfactory busin
ess meetings of the Commercial Club
that has been held for a long time was
that of last Thursday evening, in the
library building. There was a large at
tendance of business men, and not only
was there much interest manifested in
the proceedings, but work was cut out
that will result in the accomplishment
of objects which the members of the
club desire to see carried out. A plan
was decided on by which the finance
committee will be enabled to raise
much needed funds, providing the busi
ness men respond, and as they have
never failed in the past it is almost
certain that there will he no hanging
back in this instance. The ground
plans were laid for the organization
of a tire department, one of the most
important actions that the club has
ever taken part in. Those present man
ifested their earnest desire to see an
organization perfected by responding
to a call for volunters almost to a
man. The proposed celebraton at the
time of the opening of the of the irri
gation system was favorably consider
ed, also the fall fair and several pro
positions that are to benefit the com
munity directly or indirectly. A spirit
of unity and earnestness was mani
fested throughout the session, such a
spirit that, if continued, will make the
Commercial Club a* power for good in
t he community.
A GREAT TRAVELER.
lion. Ilans Lund, that cosmopolite
whose post office address is Kansas
City, but whose home is anywhere that
he hangs up his hat, was a visitor in
Oiovllle, Saturday, meeting with a
hearty welcome from ids many friends
in this community, who arc always
delighted to greet him. Mr. Lund is
very much of a globe trotter and is
almost constantly on the wing, here
today, there tomorrow. His rambles
have taken him all over Europe, and
lie is familiar with about every nook
and cranny in the United States. He
has Just returned from a trip to the
Hawaiian islands, where he spent
three weeks, basking in the sunshine
of that' gem of the tropics. A keen ob
server and a close student of human
nature Mr. Lund lias a large store of
Information accumulated during his
many voyages and his extended expe
ditions to places of interest, and being
a charming conversationalist his visits
here are always a source of pleasure
to those who know him. He will re
main in the county a few weeks, and
then flit to the Atlantic coast, stopping
off to say howdy at his home town en
route, to again cross the deep blue,
providing the venous submarine has
discontinued taking toll of the inno
cent merchant vessel.
A I'HO.MIXKM VISITOR.
Theodore Ahrens, president of the
Standard Sanitary Manufacturing
company, of Pittsburg, Pa., stopped
over in Oroville Tuesday night on his
way to the Lucky Knock antimony
mine, whirl) is situated a few miles
south east of Oroville. The Standard
Sanitary Manufacturing company is
one of the largest combinations of
capital in the United States, and has
been in the limelight tor some time
sis a mark for prosecution as the
“hath tub trust.”
Heading the sensational reports as
to the strangle hold that this com
pany has on the public one would be
inclined to look for hoofs and a spiked
tail attached to any official connected
with tlie institution. But one is pleas
antly disappointed when -meeting up
with Mr. Ahrens. He is very much of
a live, wide awake, normal human be
ing, with a genial personality that ap
peals to all those with whom he comes
in contact. He came up from Califor
nia to see the Lucky Knock mine, as
the company he represents purchased
the property some months ago. The
company is using the output exclu
sively in the manufacture of sanitary
articles it turns out. The mine is be
ing worked steadily, and the product
shipped east for treatment. It is said
that the company is to put in a treat
ment plant at the mine. It is fortunate
for this locality that such a prominent
and solid financial organization has
control of this antimony property, as
that means that the mine will be
worked for an indefinite period and
every obligation created will be
promptly met.
TOOTHSOME HKUC.UTES.
The public should bear in mind that
the ladies of the Deborah society of
the Presbyterian church, will hold a
cake sale in Getsey's confectionery
store, in the Hotel de Grubb, Satur
day afternoon, April 22. Families will
be able to stock up with delicious pro
ducts of the art of cookery for Easter
consumption. And it will be put to
gether in a manner to tickle the pal
ate.
EXCESSIVE DAMAGES.
Arthur U. Jones, of Spokane, has
owned u tract of land on the bench
and along the foot of the mountains
and bordering on the Slmllkameen
river, just west of town, for a number
of years. In Its raw state, a condition
It has always been in, the land was
1 radically valueless. In building the
irrigation system it was necessary to
cross a portion of Mr. Jones' land
i mss a portion of Mr. Jones’ land.
The presence of that ditch would Im
prove the value of Mr. Jones' land
many fold, and yet Mr. Jones claimed
damages to the amount of THIRTEEN
THOUSAND I)OI,LARS. The case was
tried Tuesday of this week at Oka
nogan, and Mr. Jones was awarded
SSOO damages, about SSOO in excess of
what a great many people think It
ought, to have been.
DRl'fl STOKE CHANGES HANDS.
Tuesday W. B. Sexson purchased
from K, J. Kido and took over the Oso
yoos Pharmacy. For some time Mr.
Sexson has been planning to open a
drug store in his old stand, two doors
north of the hank and had the building
refitted for that purpose. Then nego
tiations were started for taking over
Mr. Hide’s establishment, a deal that
lias been happily consummated. This
was a wise transfer from a business
point of view, as the town is altogether
100 small to support three drug stores.
Mr. Sexson needs no introduction to
tlie public. He was In the drug busl
nes sin Oroville for a number of years
until lie sold out and left for the east
to take a course in a medical college
some three years ago. Both himself
and wife are graduate pharmacists.
Mr. Hide started in business in Oro
ville nearly a year ago, and by his
pleasant address and uniform courtesy
has made a large number of friends
in tills place. He has not as yet decided
what he will do in the future. He will
make a visit to the coast, but expects
to return to Oroville. Those who know
him trust that he will elect to remain
a citizen of the town.
M. E. CHURCH S
Sunday school at 10 a, m. Easter
program at 11 a. m. The choir will
sing two anthems; Miss Grave will
favor us with a solo; the Oroville
band will play for us three selections;
and the Sunday school will supply
the rest of the program. This program
will be of interest to everybody.
Epworth League at 7 p. m. Preach
ing at 8 p. m. Subject of sermon:
"Tile Risen Lord.”
Everybody welcome; everybody In
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
I'HDSKYTEKIAN t’HUBt'H.
Easter service at 11 o’clock. Easter
message by pastor and a strong pro
gram of Easter music by the choir.
At 7 o’clock In the evening the Sunday
school will give its Easter program.
Sunday school at 10 a. m.
We invite yon to come and enjoy all
our services.
A. W. BOND. Pastor,
W. J. Votaw and J. Max Goar, of
Spokane, spent several days In town
this week organizing a court of the
Court of Honor. The new society will
start out with a larg membership:
Mr. and Mrs. Anson Cobb arrlvd in
Oroville from Wenatchee Friday last
and are here to remain permanently.
Mr. Cobb purchased a 20-acre tract
recently from Ellis & Forde, situated
on the Bakeview Orchard tracts, Just
at ross the Okanogan from town and
overlooking Osoyoos lake. He is here
to build a residence on the land and
will proceed to improve the same. As
be understands orcharding and gen
eral farming, Mr. Cobb will soon make
an attractive place of his new pur
chase.
The Oroville band was out Sunday
in their new uniforms. It was the first
public appearance of the boys in their
new togs, and they made a very favor
able impression. The old uniform of a
dizzy red was somewhat boisterous,
and the band decided to switch to dark
blue, less conspicuous yet for more
nobby and pleasing to the eye. The
short coats, more of a Jacket than a
coat, trousers and jaunty caps are
trimmed in gold braid, giving the suits
a dash of bright color that adds to the
general appearance and the band will
be a credit to the town wherever and
whenever they appear in public.
Arthur Bund, the chief push behind
the Okanogan State banks at Tonas
kot Loomis and Riverside, was a vis
itor in town Saturday. In the last Are
at Riverside the bank building was
among the several structures destroy
ed. Mr. Bund will rebuild, and the new
bank will be both substantial and
modern in its exterior and interior
finish and furnishings. One of the ob
jects of Mr. Bund’s visit was to ar
range for the securing of brick from
the Oroville brick yards to be used in
the construction of the new building.
11.60 PER TEAR
IRVICES.
