..... 1 . . ,
' i if Hi IJ 1 Al
A
j'i'n -1 r-j.- ' ' " , j ' 11 i, i . . V i'. ' i '' ' ' . , ' , , i
VOLUME XIV,
SELMER. McNAIRY COUNTS TENN.. FRIDAY, APRIL 21.. 1916
NUMBER 41
' . !
Oar friend L. S. Perkins writes
us interestingly from Nevr York
city about the arrest of the eight
Germans who are accused of mak
ing fire bombs and putting them
on ships sailing from New York
bound for Europe with ammuni
tion for the allies. Thirty of
these ships were set on fire, the
flames suddenly bursting out in
the hold when the Vessels were
far out at sea, and many people
were' drowned and millions of
treaures lj3t that way. Mr. Per
kins saw these bomb plotters
brought in, - and had to act as
interpreter when they were ex
amined by the United States at
torney, as they could speak no
English. They confessed hav
ing made the bombs at the orders
of men higher up, whose names
they gave; and told how the
pieces of lead pipe were sawed
into lengths from three to seven
inches, a tin partition soldered in
the center, and acid put in one
end and inflamable powder in the
other, so that in three or four
days (time enough to allow the
ships to get out in mid-ocean) the
acid would eat through the tin,
come in contact with the powder,
cause an explosion, and set the
ship on fire. These little bombs
were placed in sacks of suar,
bales of clothing and other mer
chandise, and the government
found that about 300 of them had
been used on ships. All the guil
ty men have been caught except
the head man who had the bombs
made, and the men who put them
on the shipsS The , bombsters
were all nice looking fellows, and
declared they did not know they
were doing wrong. There has
been complete lull in the burnihg
of ships at sea, sailing from Vthis
port, and Uncle Sam seems to
have rounded up that brand of
criminals. Our friend saw some
of the bombs, which were very
simple in construction and devil
ish in their execution. .
i NEW YORK
LETTER i
We want the people to know
- that our suggestions heretofore
made, that people along the roads
should and can make good roads,
Will work. Recently the road
from the old Fairgrounds to Gil
christ's was nicely graded and
fully drained, making a most el
egant auto or wagon drive. It
was done by people 'along the
way. The credit is due all who
, assisted in the work. Last week
they did the finishing , touch by
reaching to the Fairgrounds, and
something like forty teams and
men put in one or more days and
all are entitled to credit for the
liberality and good common sense
shown. If every neighborhood
would do likewise, the good road
problem would be solved. . -
Death of an Old Federal Soldier.
E. D. Hurst," aged 78 years and 9
months, died April 12 at the home of
his daughter, Mrs. S. E. Cooksey near
Michie. He le't io addition to Mrs.
Cooksey, two grown sons. : M. Hurst
has been in failing health or 'several
Tears, and was stricken on -Sunday
with paralysis and remained nncon
Bcious, until Wednesday. Deceased
was a brother; of D. It; Hqrst.of Fal
con."' He was a member of Co.B.th
Tennessee Cavalry, and a pensioner.
He was welt known to all the old citi
zens and a man of upright character,
and belonged to the Primitive Baptist
church and had preached while living
in Middle Tennessee. He was buriod
in Springhill cemetery. Rev. Brashier
conducting the funeral services. -
Sunday, April 23, 1916, is the
300th anniversary of the death of one
of the greatest names in , all human
history. The theaters of this and oth
er great cities all over the world are
preparing to honor the occasion, and
for weeks the big papers . have been
overflowing with his pictures and
praise of his writings. The king of
all kings of literature, Wiliiam Shake
speare, died on April 23. 1616. His
fame to-day is greater than ever, and
is like the peak of Jllount Everest, in
the Himalayas, which towers above
all other peaks on this planet: alone
and unapproachable among the poets
of all lands and all times. For two
hundred and fifty years he was not
so highly regarded, and, strange to
say, he came into his own first through
Germany. His plays, translated into
German by Schlegel an.'l Tieck,'as no
other days were ever translated, per
haps, took the Teutonic stage by
storm, and gradually the British and
then the Americans woke up to the
fact that the English language con
tained classics besides which the best
offerings of other languages were but
second-best. Even Homer and Dante
had tjo stand aside when the full glory
of Shakespeare dawned upon the world,
so many years after the incomparable
brain had mingled with the mother
dust. His name came into somewhat un
enviable notoriety some thirty years
ago through books written by Igna
tius Donnelly and others, who were
obsessed with the idea that these im
mortal works were nbt written by
Shakespeare at all, but by Lord Bacon,
himself the known author of wonder
ful philosophical works, and whose
"Essays" are school classics how.
The two men happened to live at
about the same time and Donnelly got
a curious bug into hia brain to the
effect that a close study of the Shake
spearian plaa would reveal a crypto
gram or cipher, telling the truth
about the authorship, and he even
went so far as to give what.this cipher
said. It is only a curiosity of misguid
ed energy and ingenious workmanship,
and you hear , very little about the
Baconian theory now. There is a cer
tain verse in the Bible, in which,
counting a certain number of words
from the beginning, you find the word
"shake," 'and, counting exactly the
same number of words from the' bot
tom up, you find the word "spere."
Some one aptly said that the Baco
nians might in that way prove that
Shakespeare wrote the Bible. .
I am sorry that I am! having to
write this article without anything to
refresh my memory; otherwise I might
quote more from this Wonderful man.
wnen i was a ctmd, we had a very
old. time-worn book called "The Beaut
ies of Shakespeare." I Thera was much
in it that I failed to see beauty in.
For example, that passage about
Blow, wind and crack your cheeks.'
l was looking out lor melody or ex
pression, and that did not sound half
as pretty as some of the things said
by Longfellow, Poe, and Bryant. But
on growing older, I learned, as many
another has done, that here was a
master who said things in a more tell
ing and happy manner than any one
else ever did; while others might maka
Another Old Citizen Gone.
- v Finis E. Miller, aged 71 years, died
at his home in Finger last week.
He had been for several months in
declining health. ' Mr. Miliar was
highly respected citizen and business
man. 1 He was a brother of J. A. Mill
er, former Trustee of McNairy coun
ty. He was a brave Federal soldier,
and spent 13 months as a prisoner of
war in the horrible Andersonville, Ga
prison. t We. have heard him' relate
his experience and observations while
in that daronabla hole which was
disgrace to any civilized people. The
deceased was a member of the Prim
itive Baptist church and was laid to
rest in the family graveyard at Sweet
Lips. Rev. Claude Martin performing
(be sad rites. -
iloquy, beginning with these all-fami-lar
words: "
"To be or not to be, that is the ques--,
tion," '.'..' .- '
Further on in this soliloquy come
true Shakesperian passages such as
"sicklied o'er with ' the pale cast of
thought" and the reference to death
as "that undiscovered bourne from
which no traveller returns." I have,
marvelled at the manner in .which
these exquisite turns of speech have
been rendered into German and Rus
sian. Schlegel begins:" ,
"Sein oder Nichtsein. dass ist" hier
die Trage." Weinberg, in Russian has'
it:
Byt' eel' ne byt, eto vopross; chto
loochey," and in so doing, brings in
part of the second line, up to: "wheth
er 'tis better," and giving a good ex
ample of the yery concentrated char
acter of Slavic speech. Schlegel says:
'"Nun weicht der Winter unsres Mis-
vergnuegens blorreichem Sommer.
"Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer."
Any one who knows the German
language thoroughly will see what
skill was used in' making that trans
lation. It is no wonder that the Ger
mans were fired with enthusiasm for
such a poet, and were pioneers in
making him known everywhere.
The songs of Ariel, in "Tempest,"
and of Puck in "A Midsummer Night's
Dream," have a halo of their own: '
"Full fathom five thy father lies;"
Of his bones are coral made," etc.
The very names of his plavs: Ham
let, Merchant of Venicel Much Ado
About Nothing, Taming of the Shrew
(the latter play, under the title of
"Der Widerspenstigen Bezaehmung,"
was given here in German . the
other night, to an immense audience),
Macbeth," and all the others, are lik"e
household wotds. His characters,
such as the fat and cowardly FalstafI,
the lecherous Lothorio, the loathsome
Iago, the usurer Shylock. and the
melancholy Hamlet, with the wise and
beautiful Portia and the brave Rosa
lind, are none the less parts of our
language, each conveying a separate
meaning. Who wants to be called a
Caliban, a Sycorax, or an Othello?
"The myriadminded," some one termed
this author, for each character had
its own perfect portraiture at his
hands, and he covered all ideas;
"touched every shore of human
.1 ' - :
his native - wood-notes
a sublime hit once in a while, he was
continually making them.
One of the traits of this . man was
his ability to create an atmosphere.-!
His scenes in the Merchant of Venice
and elsewhere are "drenched in moon
light and steeped in dreams." To
know what tbiseans, turn to the
scene between Jessica and her lover,
with the words:
"How sweet the moonlight sleeps
upon this bank."
And then, in Romeo Juliet, hear her
"It was the nightingale, and not
the lark that pierced the fearful hol
low of thine ear."
And what a glorious picture of dawn,
from whjch there is almost an exhal
ation of dew and fresh jnorning wind:
"Night's candles are burnt out, and
' jocund day
Manas tiptoe on the misty moun-
tain tops." "
There is perhaps no work of human
bands more quoted than Hamlet's sol-
thought."
"Sweetest Shakerpeare, nature's
' child,
Warbled
wild,"
is one of the best things said about
him, for it recalls what he was: a rare
songbird,-like the' hermit thrush or
nightingale, whose art of writing died
with him., .
I am not going to try to describe
hkn as a dramatist, not knowing -en
ough about the art. But in that he
stands alone, according to the world's
verdict. Now comes the strangest
part about him. Not a single line of
his manuscript is in existence; not. a
scrap of his writing except his will,
with what pretends to be his hand
writing, an ugly scrawl utterly unlike
what such an artist might use. We
Nknow nothing for sure about his early
life, except as to his marriage very
early to Ann Hathaway, and being ar
rested for trespassing on a nobleman's
grounds. He did all his 'marvelous
works in the space of nineteen years,
dying in his fifty second year. ".
On his tomb at StratTord, in Eng
land is what pretend? to be a verse
by him which pronounces a curse up
on any one who digs up his bone?,
and a blessing upon those who spare
thera.
, Leo Tolstoi, the great Russian wri
ter, could not endure the works of
bhakespeare, which he was able to
read in English, although have all
been beautifully translated mto Rus
sian. He said that first he experienc
ed great aesthetic pleasure in reading
them, but at last he was bored and
perplexed. During a space of fifty
years, he read the works over many
times, but finally.came to the conclu
sion that this Shakespeare colt was a
sort of fad, not to say madness, with
no foundation m real worth. And
yet, it has been pointed out, his death
in its solitary grandeur,- was as truly
Shakespearian as that of Kind Lear.
Some day I will try to describe this
man Tolstoi, whose works I have read
to some extent in Russian, and who
was the foremost writer on earth
when he'died in 1910.
Uses and Abuses of Fertilizers
By Prof. R. J. H- De Loach, Director of Georgia Experiment Station.
' 4. FERTILIZERS AND FIELD CROPS'.
, The Fourth of Series of Six Articlee '.
David Dickspn, after a life of useful service to his fellpw-man and a
life of success aa a farmer, bad tho following. to say about,, the use or
guano: "1 say that farmers can make every acre of their land rich if they
will. Providence intended the earth should increase in fertility as rapidly
as it does in population. Every man that assists in removing this' dor
mant guano, lying idle and useless on, the Cliineha Islands, and puts it in
circulation, creating therewith food and clothing, is a benefactor to his
kind. The country suffers for want of a snare of the surplus fertilizing
material. Remove the deposit and apply to oropa, and it will enrich tht
.land." . '-'-'.,, . " .
"I commenced to use guano in 1846, and'graduaily increased the use of
it until the present time, never having omitted to use it on my crops
excepting the last year of the war, when I could not obtain it. With the
proper system of rotation of crops, and returning all the crops to the land,
except the lint of the Cotton, land may be improved with Peruvian guano
alone, but not so fast as when you combine, witi the soil all the ele
ments of the plants to be grown, i Ammonia being necessary for all plants,
I know of no crop that it . would not benefit. ' It will pay the best upon
those crops that bring the most money cotton being that crop in this sec
tion and tobacco in other sections.''.
It will be seen from the.above that Mr. Dickson profited greatly by the
use of guano. He knew well the value of ammonia to growing crops, but
you will observe that be knew quite as well the value of other plant foods
to the crop. He got better yields when heapplied all the elements of plant
food than when he applied ammonia alone. Also observe that he considered
it good business to apply fertilizer.. He was a business nfan as well as a
farmer," and knew all the keen points in the business world.
Vlewa of Another Millionaire Farmer.
The Hon. James U. Smith, another millionaire farmer of Georgia, who
died only a few weeks ago,- had the following to say with reference to
the use of fertilizers on farm crops:
"The use of fertilizers has become one of the most important factors in
Southern agriculture. It i a powerful agency in producing an increased
yield a thing we should desire and work for. We certainly believe in the
use of commercial fertilizers, but we also believe tn the turning under ot
vegetable matter, the sowing of legumes and the saving of all barnyard ma
nure. The up-to-date farmer will not consider one of these, but all four of
them, in trying to increase his farm crops." . .
ISach of these two farmers, who have done much to timulatevfarm im
provement, learned the value of fertilizers, but learned equally well the value
of diversilied farming. They would not decrease the use of fertilizer, but
diversify more. They would have us use more fertilizers, so that we could
grow more piants and vegetable mater, in turn plow this under, and in
this way increase the fertility of our land3. The most effective farming of
today involves these two great principles. Use fertilizers and. diversify the
crops. Rotate and feed the plants, and you will increase your yields, be more
secure from plant diseases,, and bring your farm into a high state of cultiva
tion. .
Put Back Plant Food In the Soil. ..
If growing crops take plant food out of the soil and we do not plow un
er an amount equal to this, or get it from some other source and apply it,
our land is sure to decrease in fertility and in value. This is a fact beyond
dispute. With most of Our crops we take from the fields a large amount of
nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash, which never goes back to the place on
the farm from whence it came. We should Bee to it, then, that some kind of
plant food takes its place. In the case of cotton, we sell the seed, and with
them iarge amounts of nitrogen and other elements of plant food. Very of
ten we burn the stalks, and in this way take from the field much more
valuable plant food., It is sucidal policy for us to remove from the soil more
plant food than we restore to the soil.
On a sandy farm in one of the Southern States.which had abandon
ed by its original owner and sold for fifty cents per acre, a litttle barnyard
mannre and heavy applications or fertilizer made another, farm richf The last
farmer used $15 worth of fertilizer per acre and raised 1,400 pounds of seed
cotton per acre.. This was about a bale per aere on the entire farm. The $15
investment in fertHizers and good breaking and cultivation netted the thrif
ty farmer more than $50 per acre when. cotton was bringing a high price.'
All the experiment stations and other institutions have found that' ferti
lizers applied to farm crops under good conditions pay a handsome dividend
on the investment. It generally means the converting of a nonpaying farm
into a profitable farm. This, after all, is what we farm for, for profit aa well
as some pleasure. The average farmer gets large returns for fertilizers wisly
used. If fertilisers do not always pay, it is because farmers waste instead of
use them. - , , ,
J 10,000 yds Loom-End Calico at 4 c4 a yd
I tiup a Kin r.BT Vru m cm it ' '
COME AND GET VOUK SUA..!
Wc have a nice line of men's, ladies' and
children's dress slippers and tennis slippers
We have a ' com-
jplcte line of men's
K land boys' plow
shoes from $1.50 up
Overalls at the same old price as long
as they last .
T. L. ANDERSON & GO. , Selmer
II
WeH. Now let us take up Shake
jpeare and begin a fourth centurv of
his enchantment.
I wish I had time to say something
about another very great man, the
Spaniard Cervantes, who died on the
same day as Shakespeare: the author
of the altogether remarkable book,
Don Quixote. I saw this immortal
work portrayed in a moving picture
the other night, and it certainly was
entertaining. The "Qaixotic" knight
and his faithful squire Sancho Panza,
have -as firm hold npon the affections
of the world as they did three hundred
years ago, and no doubt the coming
centuries for ages will hold these two
supremely gifted writers in loving
remembrance. ' '
Sidney Smith, the great Bnglish
humorist, once visited a lady who had
a little dog, nanwd Spot, of which she
was very fond. She asked the humor
ist to write a poem about the dog,
who was frisking around the. table.
Su ith said he would not do that, but
he would repeat the words of Lady
Macbeth, who thought she saw 'the
nurder stains on her hand: "Out,
daiuned spot!" Smith probably lost
a ft!ct;d by quoting Shakespeare that
time. , .
Lind3ay S. Perkins.
Announcement.
A special low rate of $1.15 to Jack
son, Tenn and return will be made
by the Mobile & Ohio Railroad on May
5, 19 10. Take advantage of this
special occasion and visit your friends
See local agent for particulars.
For Sale.
1 have fr.r sale a lot of choice, se
lected Japanese cane seed for sale at
10c a pound, special price per bushel.
Double the yield of ordinary sorghum.
Finely flavored syrup.
S. K. Wallace. Middleton, Tenn.
Women's Sprinc Coat Suits
at Clearance Prices
$15.00 and $18.00 SUITS REDUCED TO
$9.85
Dozens of New Wash Skirts, white and colored,
ready today at . . . $1.00 to $1.50
Men's and Women's New Low Shoes of Easter Fashion
READINESS
Women's Low Shoes at..
Men's Nettleton at
Men's King Quality at
.$3.50 and $4.00
- L$6.00
-$4.00
Hundreds of yards of New Wash Goods Ready ;
TODAY AT 10c to 25c the yd
MENS' CLOTHING
Please let us say once, that it is better for the men of
Corinth to buy their CLOTHING AT GISH'S, for
they can safely buy all-wool, hand-tailored Suits here
today as low as ever in our history. We have kept up
the standard with no increase in cost. "
Chas. H Gish
m Gsra GbsQ Ceil Osrci GSsi) Ce GerS GbsD (Sil frSral fiSII
J S GD dJ & CD W dI (IlJ dig m
EARL INGRAM.
JACK KERBY.
KERBY & INGRAM
TUBULAR VELL DRILLERS
AND DEALERS IN-
Farm Water -Systems
ELECTRIC LIGHT PUNTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
' Fairbanks-Morse and Southern ? J
. : . Gasoline and Coal Oil Engines
i WE GIVL YOU A SQUARE DEAL
M PHONE 26, BETHEL SPRINGS, TENNESSEE
Saturday Evening Post
sold every week. See ,
AFFRED WHITEHURST, Selmer
Barred Plymouth Rock Cockerels
. and Pullets for Sale
Setting of 15 tggt for only 50c
Purest Breed
EMMET GRAHAM, Selmer
Read The Independent for the
news of the county, v
J. E. HAMILTON'S
Barber Shop v
For a Nice, Clean Shave or Up-.Mo-Date
Hair Cut .
Clothes Cleaned and
Pressed to look like new
Agents for the Southern Steam
Laundry Basket leaves every
Thursday. Bring us your laundry
Hot and Cold Baths.
