lie
S5 i4
Cattum
tteL
51ST YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1916.
NUMBER 51.
SI ILL lilllNli KllKWAItH.
Hi
v '
Holt Has five Consolidated
School Districts; Pupils 790;
Wcilth $1,592,010
Tli" proposition to consolidate Ml.
Hope, Stnr nml llnish College dis
tricts In Holt County, nml the Hous
ton district, in Atchison Count)', wun
submitted to the voters of these dis
tricts r.t nn election held Wednesday,
of Inst week, April 1'.', nml resulted
in fnvor of tho pinpo.ltlon ly Hip nnr
row margin of 'J majority, the vole
being .'11 for to ,T.' against. The ills
trict will lie known n Cnn.olldnttd
Dlstilct No, ft. nml tho first board of
illlpclorn will be composed of the fol
lowing: Kor three yrarn Charles !. Host
vlcl, Fred W. Cook.
Two eais F.d l.nwrciicc. Trunk
McCoy,
One year I'nliett Means, t'hnrten
(Inline).
Tlic hoard will doubtless organize
In the tictir fu tu iv nml wilt likely Hike
step, to submit n Imml propositi in
asking for fi.uw with which to elect
u t-onsotidnlrd higii school bulbil:.,:
nml tlic iltu will likely hi- chosen nenr
tho Shnip'n Gmvo rliurvh. Tin I'.Hft
mumernilon nml vuliinlioii placed tin
following . In t it to tlio.-c In Holt County
ii follows: .Stnr, No. H, hml pupils,
nml n vnluntlon of J7.l-ll; No. 7.
Jilt. Hope, L'.'i pupils nml n wiluntloit
of Jil'J.s.V); No, It), llrush College, hml
:il pupils nml the nluulhm wn
i.i;cJ'J n totnl enumeration of las
pupils, nml t vnluntlon of JCt.'J'.'iV
We hnvp no ik'lu nt limul ns to tho
statistic of tl Houston district tn
Atehisim C'-uiity. hut it l rpnon!iblo
to tiip uiio' llii)' will uink v.itli that
of (titiflt College distllrl which would
innkc tlic cniiinciutlon I ID, nml thu
totnl vnluntlon nlmui f'JT.'i.imn.
With this consolidation wo now
liavo llvo consolidated school districts
In ur county, with it totnl cii'inictn
Hon of Tl") pupl!i nml a valuation uf
i?I..V.i.,.S1it.
Tho Vomoliilutlou of r.tnil tchnol
wan liimiguralcd in Mnrch, l!M'.', Iy
the friends of tin- ttinu mint living In
Mlnttesnlu alley. Hah- lYnlpr. Lib
oity uml lun Grove, out of which
grow much litigntinti, nml wan tnkrn
to Hip supreme point, nml today thp
district In in oiipintlon uml l known
r.n Consolidated District No. I, It In
composed of Minnesota Vutloy, Dple
Center. Liberty nml IIimh Gmvc. Its
enumeration in I til A wnn I'-'ll; nlun
Hon. sp.i,.v;ii. It hullt n hlh K'hool
'iuIMIiik In IHI''.
No, J, known iik Hip IIIkpIow Con
Mitlilntnl Uihtrict, ennip Into pxiftciu-p
in Muy, till t, uml Ik cduiiwpiI of
IllKptow nml pmtK of Kim Crovp,
Summit, W1M I!om, KpUo nml Cotton.
wood. In l'.il" it liullt n hnmlronip new
Inick IiIkIi fchool hulMint; lit n rot of
Jf.VHMI. It ntntl.-tlc for HUfi fliow
1(11 puplln nml u vnluntlon of f,Vl,Tlf.
No. il in kuimn n tho TortPhCtiP
ilUtilct, nml wni Ih'Iii In Apiil, t','l.
It Inn nn ImponiiiK IiIkIi rchool I ulll
Imr. It In coinpo,pl of I'mtPMMip,
Wntkcr I'.lin tiiovp, Wnlnut lirop nml
IiIIpuIMp illnlrictn. TIipip hip 'J.VJ
puplln uml itn unillli If $:itll,l,'itl.
No. I in knouii an the KoUn ilintrivt.
compoMMl of ISIcmlulp. North Centur,
.Mnrlrttn nml Kclnn. It Imn nn ciium
pi nt Ion of 11:1 nutiiln nml uu iki-pks-
nlilp wcnllh of $iS!;i70, It won civnt-
oil In Mny, Itiln, nml nn yet linn nut
Imllt n IiIkIi m-IiooI hullillm;.
No. fi cmup into exUlenci' April 1J,
nml In conipornl of llninh OoIIckp,
Mt. Ilopp, Stnr illntrictn, In Holt
Count v. nml Houston, in Atchlnnn
County. Totnl puplln, MO; vnluntlon,
i,IIUU.
Kunter I'roKrnm
liy rivnytcrian choir, Sunday, 8 p. m,
Cnntntn "ArihCUf, n Krleil or tlio
Nniarenc.
Mtmlcnl Numbers:
J Qunrtcttp, "Seek yc tho I.onl.
Mnlo Volcen, "Hall Cnonr."
il ClioniR. "Ii Thou ho the ChrUt.1
A Trio for l'cnmlo Voice. "Anircl
GnanU Their Watch Arc Keeping."
& Duct ami Chorus, 0, Ucath
Where Is Thy StlnR."
7 Chorus. "Tho (innlcn Chorus."
8 Solo for Soprano,"Come With Joy
ful Hearts. "
V Haritnnp Solo anil Quartette, "I
Will Follow Thpp."
10 Full Chorus, "Hallelujah, Mighty
King.
0
Dies at KuHcliurK, Oregon,
Many of tho olilcr residents will re
inombcr William linker, who homo
thirty yearn ago resided in Hickory
township, on what is now known as
tho Jock Wright place, ,tlr. linker
died at tho Soldiers' homo. In ltosc
burg, Oregon, March 10, 111(1, In his
70th year. Ho was born in Fnyctto
county, uino, ami came to tins county
in 18Co. Ho served in tho 43d Mis
souri Infantry, ami was In tho soma
company with Win, M. Morns, W. K,
Simmons anil jacou llnw.
Culllnir lladlv.
The Mlsouri river is still playing
havoc with many of the farms In tho
Idlewllde section. Charley Moscr's
land is being gobbled up by the rav
ages of the stream this Is known as
the old John Mlnton place, Marshall
Crews had to move his residence on
Sunday last, bo near to the danger line
had it it become. Tho road.alonr. tho
ajoser piace nas gone into the river.
Miss Jessie, daughter of G. W,
Ithoads, of Mound City, and J. V.
Com, of Nodaway, Mo., were married
! I . Vmmmm A II -O ..J ...III
III ICVy, Af( x, mil will
.make their home on a farm, near
nwsrajr,
n r- .. 1 .J . ' HDm - 9W 311
MM
News Snapshots
Of the Week
msamm - t
J A Itol Kt.-,J vTtl 1"
'' foe w'rJ
flttliiB on thp rii'p of Hip Hu-opv, Hip mliltn-l ill-.-iieil iilieilipr lipriiuili.v lunl tirnken fnllJl Willi Hip 1 'lilt.il Mliitp III Hip "illf
liiiirlnp iiiiitiotrr-y ile pllp ih'iilitl liy Hip knlier't K'lU'rnmpiil. In Hip h-I Itsin I'ti.iin i ltor mhi Iti'tliiiiniiii llnllup'.' Inlliu.ili-I
till 11 of oik p. will, h wrip .uriicd liy Hip ill lie Hiiniiuli b.nl II-iIkiI Cell nn, I'tpinli-r Aitillli In pulill.' imiiIipi. Venluii
lluhllllU' MI llllrli-llliil lie L'lli iilliick. Hip liprilillti nloull i ln-lnu In nn Hip l ini, Ii roilu . rpmlni: Ini'ii.loii of lipr Ipilllnrr.
Ilotliind'n ipiii'ii iiioIiIIIhI nf i..r triHi . t'nloiii'l lliNi-ptpli tm.p out Hip i.'inlllloii- on whl Ii lip Mould unci it Hip llpputillinn ii"iiiliintloii for prp-ldpit.
Keimlor .Viirini ii. Ilurdlim wn mmlp ipinporiiry iluilruiiiii of tlio Itppulillcuii iiiill.niiil ctnieiitloii iucvHiik lu Juno. Villa win ri ported dcud, but lVriiilu.'
UucU imvua. WlUi Ttu fccjlcxuiiiJ 'y Cobb uud tho other stars lu tuclr tuual good form tlio big Icasuo baseball season opened,
MMTtWHY M.WION.
Julia, ilntiirhtir of Major Motion
Zlmincrmnn uml Mllilri-I llanult
'Inimi imnn. wnn Ikiiii in Nlclinki-
vlllr. Ky In 18.1H. In July. Ii7, slip
cmiiP by hlpniulipnl nml Mnup coiuli
to l illmorp, ,lo wiipip for two inn-
.ltd ll(r. Mrs. wnlii-.cl Jinrn n-iu
rn. tir.tmlll lloftou, I In ti ipmiIoI.
In Ih.'H slip wnn unllid in puirrluvp
to Joipph W, Ncwtnn, of Oipgon, Mo.
Tttii mnn uml or.p ilnuhtpr wpiv
urn ti them, Hip ilmmlitrr, .Mllilicl,
dying in Infmiry. TIip mnn me Unnc
l) nf Unremln'p, nr.il Mrtvlti l nf
MiPiml ( ity.
In r.lnut IMBI thfv rt'iunviil fmm
Unit roiinty, MKo'.nl, to NVIirnsttri
City, Nili.. nml in l.'sl iPturmtl to
Mound Cltv. Holt rnJtitV. whelp Hipv
lived until II:p dealli of Hip hurl nml,
Ichl years nun. lncp wldih tlmp np
Im iinip her honip, inot of tlip tlmp,
with hi-r hhi. I, I'., of ItoM'iuhilc. Sho
wnn nlnnjn lilcisl with giuiii iienllli,
until coiiip two yen in into, when hc
pntrnctiil whoiiiilnir rouuli. nml n n
rnuit of Hip i.pvi ip emiKhtng nt her
advanced lire, puntlynin cn.iud. from
ulilch Iip linn lipin nlmoAt Inlplci.-,
nuirprlng Intciifply ino.'t nf tho tlmp,
until nt 'i::iu p, nt.. ,nru i nn. r.iiu,
!ieu. In nnnwer to her ofl.rppcntiii
p ravel', death came to her leliif.
The I "lily wan brouuht to Mound
City nml funeral spivIips wiip run-
luctcil r.t Hip Mi thmlht i liuit h, Mon-
In - Amll IT. nt III!!!!! n. in.. Vv l.'cc.
'.' A. Clinpiiinn. of I!om mlnlc. Mo.
luti'i'iupitt wnn inmlp In Ml. llopo eon-
leiy. Ncu's-JrlleiH'iilan. Txpril Ih.
i,
(.)!i. n I'MiIng They Did Co.
Tnpwlnv afternoon of thin wick, n
iimitcttc. ronipofcil nf tho following
ynuiig iiicn. hlid llii'iiwi Ivcn uwny to
Camion Lake, not t Ii of Forest City, to
r.tinle for Hip Unity denizens of Hint
inKc: w. u .iioorp, loiicrinr iipiiiv
Alklrc. S. I' lViklnn. chnperoneil l.y
l-.ldpr II. 11. Dawson. p iln not know
the entile partlrulnr, but from what
wp run lea in thpv ship hml hiiiip time.
Hipy Mnrtiii out nrnveiy in n noni to
get Into deep water, in which they
siirceeiieii. ami inen lie nml Minx
nml lliev hud to wade to slioic. with
Hip water up to their necks. Alon
nliout J oelocK ii. in., Collector Alklro
tlKUight' lio hml hml enough, so he
hallowed to I'.lder Dawson, nsklng htm
W int .tick?" T ip Hi er ren oil.
"Ilavi- innilo ,M) casts, hut nothing to
show for It." Finally they rcturnM
to their car tn lltid that a row hml ntc
Hip tails nlf their ruin coats, nml then
they started for homo, hut hml trouble
nml came lu home nn the rim nf thu
cnr. Oh. they had a lino time lots
of fun mid plenty of fishing, but no
1 lie hoys do not know just
i' nnntnri no nt WinnIi .nn, Co'o. I
' "'o. nn institution pimti'il nml muiii
I'lll'll liy Hip
AiM'.'irn, nf with Ii finteiiiity ho wnn a
p lipr. Inn tin iliru-p lil.il such Im il
" I him that Hip ! i liill.-t tl.' tc pin
t'upiii'iil his rnnp nn liiriiinMp. lie ii'
t v I tl i-1 home, ll'ld wit!) i hclfillllpsn.
i nib rep nml foitii.a'.p rife l Hip nr.
M:VS l lltIM CltAlC.
-Iieiiir (chin wnn sliaklnir hauls
wltli the Minus help, .Monday.
.Mr, VI . . .Mtlls.nl HuiiiVllip, n
kins u KUi'st nf Hip Juilys, over Sun-
la;.
The Mink in Wood. in n lid flvp
'I".ikIi Hip i,itlr fonvt. Inst Mint-
In.' til, rhl.
--Cm mi otti l . thp thriK-vpni-old nml nioii-ier in ii.p until nt ,
son of Mr. nml Mr. I'miik I'owpII, Ihu I'liiNlhin. 'rinuiiili In lint llvpil In
Ihpii iiiite nick with mumps. ,1'i.Hg but n .-lioit H'ip. nml was nf-
Miss Wiiiirii'd nnwiiy, rnglisii iift-it wnn iicarmvi, nml nml ii'il
li'iiclier in Hip hlgo m l.ool, !s nulling tlx i ii-fml iip of tola! los. In n ills-
I c.iho in i.p.ittipr, ti.is wii'h, n nn.i i:r.' n ver mile tore alter (
l'.'tiiPi"tt Wright, oiii nf rnlrfa'. Id Inc.iHon. he n ndp friimln with,
rtin-!) citirens. wns In Crnlu;. 'I h"iv- r; Ii idy. uml nut tho worM'ii
my. gri l ling ohl irlcmlnnml Il lative, iinci kiiik-k- oiiii ii s i'p. ills ruiu rul
l!oln'tt llntrh, nun of Oicl-oii was iniMnliiil Su, dtiy uttPliUHin nt
popular tonsorinl aitistn, wn uni't- t'w rn-slijlpHnn elimvli, liv llev. K
HI lll M IKIIII. IONl:STll.
t.".li. it T"t r.Mp KtiMlijr whn,t r.imttt
Jloil"ii WooMrllli r .,....,,1,. ..,-it
lug hln iii&iiy fi ll nils in Cialu'. Mon
tiny.
- ii. i.. rarrifii ami wiro ntn tv
jiU'lug over H'p anKal In tlieir honip
i u iiouucing nniiy gill, .Mniulay eve
lllpx.sler. his pastor. The ehuirh
wti 111 It--1 to nvprliow with synipn
tMting flieiiils. II) reiUcst nf Hip
ftt'iil), li'.inal wn i'iin Willi Hip
liciiiitifiil uml luipivssivp illunl of the
tlllll. . J . Ilhll I'll iMtllltll'll klM.ll fit III,, I'flt.
1 .oil Is lio'i'.d v.lts I'plpiisiil iiiiiii rlslt ipnntciv. Ills widow nml null'
il'jniuntlne, Sntuiil.iy. ufli r ipillp a , iluurhter, Mlsn IMn, with a mimber of
slcgp or small pox, follnwi'il with tit" InnthPis and slsler retitnln to iiinuin
inuinps. Mh ilepurtui'p,
.MPSMTs, . A. Willi . .1. A. Mn I.
by ami l-l- Ten re nttondul Hip I In. lie
coiiMH'titloti nf the .Shltici in St, Jo.
scpli. Inst wii k.
I IIP IIUI liUKIIIII .(lllll KUIIg, .O. II, j
Have Hip depot, section house, hwitrtt ,
minis, missing siuun, pip,, a llinr
nugh cunt nf paint thin wtrk. whl.' i
in light In line with tho town's ehu'i
up rumpnlgn.
WIIIIp lipyiiolils. Hip sou nf Wil
'Imn lIpyunMs.of Council lllulfs, lown,
was nrii'siiii, one day, last wppk,
wliilp hp wan Uniklnir lor Asa Sliin-i.
ami tnkeu to lown, to nnswi r a chiiigo
of inr hu nkliig.
I- A. Ailnms, who nt nun tltno
wan thp Jvwiler In Hip I:. (J.Cox iliiur
toip. wnn in town the latter pint nf
lat week, lencwing iiriunlntuiu'ps and
ni'innginir some liuslness matters, it
Is most lively thnt .Mr. Adams will
psiiioiisii nis lesiiieiicp in urnig ngala
in hip near mime.
"Ilivt nn. ivst on, lu penrcful lest,
I. li II III IMP lilNl guvp
llciv inorikln yet unliorn will stand
II, lip hU lowly grnvo.
Not will lil itiKiiltipsn he foi got,
While tlmp Its rceniil kn p;
Hut NplglilMirs imitk thpsntiPil spot
WIipiv a Modem Woodmen sleeps."
;ooi.i:nou;ii.
Ask Mis. AHicit NopIIscIi why
slip diHvn't cat pickles.
Horn, o Mrs. AiiiiIp Clumpy, near
I'oitpscup, April (I, a girl huhy,
Cah for 1,'ggs nt
Mooiti: ti kiii:i:k's.
--M. I!. Maitln nml wife wcie in
St. Joseph, WdhiPsdiiy of this wtek.
Mr. ami Mrs. Unbelt Montgomery
wpiv shopping in St. Joseph lust Fri-iluy.
Mlsn lllnoin Norrin wnn visiting
Mrs. Alex Cunningham passed ,,,3'. V I ... -r: f u .A iV!TS
nwny early Suturdiiy moinhig, Just a ", ;r " 1
mouiu iiiiit iter nusimmi, wnn cnllPil
to tho other world. Slip wun burieil
catching.
who was the
'hoodo,"
lladly Hunted.
Iluford. tho L'L'-venr-nld son of Mr.
and Mrs. James Cordrey, wns serious
ly burned, about tho noon hour, Wed
nesday, April ID, and tho burns arc
of a chatactcr that may prove fatal.
iiuroni wns imroing a trash neap.
It is supposed that ho stumbled ami
fell Into tho lire. The lire was closo
to tho house, and Mrs. Cordrey and
two daughters saw him fall, anil they
1 , l . 1.1- ..!!. 1 1.
liuniriieii iu mo ii'iici, nun liv ao ivp-
cued by tliein and taken to tho house
anil tlio men or tho place, were sum
moned, and Jesse enmo in his auto,
and secured Dr. Kvans, who went out
nt once and rendered thu ncccsnarv
medical atentlnn. He is until v burned
about tho face and upper portion of
me urcasi, a trained nurso was ai
once telegraphed for, and Is now in
chnrcu of the sulferins vountr man.
"Hud," as ho is familiarly called, lias
a host if friends who will regret tho
accident, and will earnestly hope for
a spceiiy recovery.
Latoh lie died about tl o'clock
weanesaay nigiit.
Sunday nt the New l.lbpitv eemetpiv
Tho funeral services wero conducted
by IIpv. F. P. llrcwstpr, or Hip I'ips
byterinn rhuivli, at the family homo.
While hnuling n load of pmts,
Tupst'ny, nt the form, now owned by
Mr, (Irccne. who boui-ht nut II. K.
Ilawley last fall, Kd Hopkins wns
thrown to the earth and his urni wnn
dislocated nt Hip wrist Joint. Ho enmo
home nt unco uml wns attended by
hln family doctor, and is now nursing
ii iiuck to strength.
Hip special sale anil auctioneer
have disposed of tho Wlcklncr stuck
of iiu'rcltanillse in the Itilfe building.
nils is probably tho first time in tlio
history of tlio building that It has
been unoccupied. Years ago, Thomas
& Urr conducted a uciiernl ineivlinn.
illso business thero uml their sign on
me ship iii i up iiuiiuing may yet be
distinguished. W. U IHlio began his
mercantile career in the building as u
cleik for Frarer & Ford. Tho build-
Ing Is tlio property of the Ford In
vestment Co., of St. Joseph. It is not
iiticiy 10 remain vacant long.
flic alarm of Urn wnn Khnnli.il ,m
tho streets, at noon. Mondnv. nrmnlmr
our i uncns io mo realization that n
protection irom liro has yet been pro
vliled In our little city. Hut luckily
mis time, me discovery wns ninilc In
time. Tho soot In tho kitchen chim
ney of tho resilience owned and occu
pied by Green II, Taylor caught lire
and spntks set on fire the roof. He-
loro tho alarm was well sounded,
The Cradle.
Several births were reported to us
the past week;
To E. G. Thompson and wife, a boy,
April u.
urea itowtett ana wire, April 1",
a firl.
Waloter Campbell and wife, April 9,
a son. . i
Chas. It. Adklna' and wife. A'nrll 0.
. , ,
a uoy.
week
Attorney Frank I'ctiep hml busi
ness In Omnhn for n day or two, this
week.
Attorney A, Vnnllusklrk had
Ipgnl business in Corning, Wednesday
of this week.
Mlsn I'.lnora Norrin lias returned
homit from a visit with relatives in
tlrnvlty, lown.
Tho directors of the Maltlnml fulr
aro muklng nrrniigements for their
coming IU Hi fair, j
Miss Katie Fields nml Mls.i l.nla
Nichols weie SUosepli visitors, Wed
nctilny of this week.
Mrs. Itlley Hulat and Mrs. Geo.
Patterson wero St, Joseph visitors,
Saturday of last week.
Attorney W. 11. Itirhnrils wns in
Chllllcothe, thin week, attending n big
drainage ditch meeting.
(uy Cummins, M. U. and Kmll
Martin and Grant I'ullen, were St.
Joseph visitors last Friday,
George F. Seemnn, wllo nml chil
dren have rcturncil.from u few days
visit with relatives In St. Joseph.
Charles T. Donovan and W. M.
Stewart, of St. Joseph, hud business
in urcgoii, juesuny or mis wcck.
II. C. Cook and Frank Foster
wero transacting business In Kansas
City for a couple of days, last week.
Initial steps aro being taken In
Mound City looking to the organiza
tion of a company vf Stnto Militia.
A. O. Hankers. Kd Dunham and
Georgo l.ukcns left Tuesday for South
1.'l l'1'l..tt H.iimIiii Slt,.,t.
W hitrbl sitt-lits ft.l,1 n n I'miuniil Ity
(', ,l,r. J, C. IIjiii. (. W. Il.it. till. I.
II. Il,4- il-.
r',,n.'H.n H.rin.i. Ibl. W. (', J'.lih-lu
llft.kti I'lnnt.
1 1 ii, r n,i.
I iiiriiil..tt Nl,'i. "lliiwnnt I'liiLlUii
,1!,'.
INtotl"!!! IICltlH
INIlli .l ihlMili. Hlfl Ili-'fU ut Hul.,tir
MtN..!
At ,tl,.tlft'- H,I4,
l,i-,.-s.,i. .1. i', ..iil, W. J, 'AulHHnn.
i:niti,.i,.ii, ijti.Ni itur.t.
h,,l,tf.
Tl'. J1'-I"P CiiiU SVI...I A. It Mui
ii i l',y s.l (,IH Nii.L" 11,1. I uliriiMili,
liwl.,lii iMl,,i4tn, tin, I'mint.
Ilt.,1.
IU 'I'Hll. Ii. Ms. !.ilr Hunt.
' ..lirl-nitf iIm' 1-iiIii S, l..l." W. A.
Kth'.4'.i. I.'... W. I. J,,l Ihmii.
-fU Wink I'l-ll.l. Ill llir Huiubnr Cl..."
ti: llrll., IIM.ll, J. Wisir. ('. 1'. Ilr.
l-l.r. iV lM IIjiiI.iI,
"m-lnl lti-i.1, l,v lis Mllfttf t-iitiil ,.r ll.c
llri:,li IllllllvilUsI 8,ll,li kI-.I.
ri,.i, im.
I'i imii,. ,ih,ir in-! nil HiiihInx
.tiiktr. Im,ii-I.
IN A M. I VI VIM. J, c. MiilllltS.
S'ilinl. lii..Ulit.
Diunui Ileal Church.
.Suiiduy, April 'S-; I'lenchiiii; ser
vice ut II li. in., in Hip Olpgnn cbuicli;
S p. in., nt NlckellV Giovp chiiivh.
Prayer utietiiig at Nlckell's (iiove,
Wednprihi, at S p. in.; In Oregon, on
'I hiiisdny, nt s p. in.
Sumhiy, Apiil :;o, thp NiMlnua;.
Tnwiuhlp Sundaj school convention
will he held In our Nlckell's (ilove
eliurch. In nil probability. If wentiur
roinlitlonn peruilt, tin 1 1 will be a
bu.'ket dinner. All Sunday school
workers will be rolillaly wplrouiid.
Fin titer dptuiled nunouncpiuents will
hp inailo h Hip nlllci iv. I'ASTdlt.
i,
A meeting Is desired of nil nuto.
blip owners nml inetubers nf Hip Com
iiipi clal Club, at Hie Com I llniup, nest
Tuesday evening, at S o'clock,
Klnier Caiwui nml wlfu hnve ip-
tuincil muiii a lew iiayn' visit in
Mound City, with Mrs. Cnrson's pur
cuts, Mr. uml Mrs. Warren Dirk.
As wp lire going nut of tho Wnll
Paper business, it will pay you to
come in nt mice nml see our stock
will close nt llrst com,
iii:nningi:i: dp.ug co.
Dan M. Martin In hark from Kun
tns City, wheru ho visltiil Cavo J,
Hunt, at the St, Luke's hospital, lie
jcpolts Mr. Hunt ns doing line, ami Is
much encouraged as to Ills condition.
Maurice Stokes, who lives just across 1 Jeo'Kpl V-"0'18 lc I ucsday for soutl
the street, i-riisnp.1 bn nliiinilnn nn,l I Central Texas, on a prospecting trip
ipiicklv procured a ladder, and ciucn-1 Mrs. Louise Schulte, who has boon
ched the flames before the'flre light-Ivory sick for several days, is now
era arrived. A hole about threo feet much better, wo uro glad to announce.
square was burned in the roof.
Ucnjamln Kgbert P.oot died Sat
urday morning, at his homo in Craig,
after years of battling with Hint
dreaded disease, tuberculosis. Ho was
born in Darric, Sincoe county, Canada.
He spent a number of years in Kan
sas, laboring at the harness and sad
dlery trade. 'About a year ago he came
to Craig and engaged in the same oc
cupation, but consumption had worm
ed, its road Into his constitution to
such an extent that ha did little suf-
wring, ne sought relief by going to
Mrs. Mnttle Dunham, of Mound
City, spent a few days hero tho past
wcck, visiting ner son, r.u a, uunnam
and family.
Tho many friends of Mrs, Nell
Hoblltzell, of Skldmore, who has been
so very sick, will bo glad to know that
she is now convalescing.
Georgo Dcrr. wife and baby, of
Nlckell's Grove, visited with her par
ents, Joshua Guthrie and wife, of the
Lincoln district, the nast week. J. L.
Andler and famly also were visiting
witn ine uutnnes.
Mrs. Frank Sutton has returned
homo from tho Savannah cancer hoi
pltul, where sho went Friday Inst for
an examination, and was Informed
that she wan doing nicely and could
icturn home ui once.
The Forest City schools close this
week. Wednesday tho grades had
their program. This Thursday even
ing. Hip High School play will bo giv
en, and tonight, Friday, will bo tho
Commencement exercises.
The Craig Leader Issued n hnml
some Faster cover for its edition last
week, three nt the pages being taken
by tho live, progressive merchants of
unit town, i no anvertising or tno
local paper is the teflex of the spirit
ot its business men
Levi Schulte, nccomnanled by his
mother, Mrs. George Adolph, left
for llushuel I. Illinois. Wednesday
of this week to bo In attendance at
tlio funeral of Jtev. Henry hller
beck, wlio is an uncle nf Mrs.
Adolph, and who died in Ilushnell,
iuesiluy or this wecg. in his iwti
yenr. Ilcv, hllcrbeck was known to
many oi our citizens ami esneciniiv
tho olilcr German citizens, having
preached In Oregon at dlucrcnt times,
Wo aro in recclnt of "The Stu
dent," tho alumni number of Central
High School, of Detroit, Mlchlfan, for
April, 1010, published by. the i.u dents
of this school, which la published
monthly during the school year. It
Is a work of art throughout, and
chocK run or good things. The cover,
which is a beauty, in three colors, red,
white and yellow, was designed and
executed by Louis Kaltenbach, son, of
Dr. E. Kaltenbach and wife, formerly
of Craig, this county, but now resi
dents of Detroit It'certainly reflects
great credit upon Louis' abilltiea as a
qesigner.
t'oiml) School Notes.
Holt rounty now linn live consoli
dated districts; thp orgnnizntlon of
Hie filth imp wnn elfivted nn the result
of thu I'lertlnn, Wednesday. April 1'-',
which took place ut Shmp'i Grovp
church. Six illieclors wpiv elected an
plovidcd by law, sphmlid men, nil of
litem C. ti. Itoslwick, president; K.
(!. tiwirnce, vice president; F. W.
Cook, secretary: Itoliclt Means, 1'. I
Mi Coy nml Clms. (inline).
The superintendent spent pall nt
Hip week in the Crnig schools. Mr.
lluttn, the pry elliclent suttrrlntcn
dent, sliowiil her setup splendid Work,
which hp hn.l iutcmicd pshiliillng in
Hip display nf school woik nt Mound
City, hut was previ tiled flnm lining s )
nn account of (llues-. Thp woik In
I'liithil n sph mild Industrial map of
N'ottlt Ainetica, nude nf salt nml
pnstp. nml note Ihk.Ws iu ngrictillutr
ami physics. Thp Cni'g high school
hnn ben put nn Hip list of iippn'ci!
high sc loots of tile llrst class, t'lttlg
reltalnly ha ipasou In hp proud of
her schools mid of her ellU'luil corps
nf tPiirhers.
Three ehildn-n In the Pierre scIhhiI,
Mlsn Helen Tlintclur, teacher, werp
nelthtr ahsml tun tnnly for Hip en
Hip year -llarel nml Khun Milne ami
HpIi'i Mpjpi.
Palp llaaim. In thp New Point,
school. Mr. Huntsman, tenilier. wnn
pel fil l In ntti'iiilniii'p for Hi" intiie
venr. vl.l'p t'Uni llunt-iiinu. lietinith
l.etity. Hniuld Ihiittz, Klmn Li ntx,
Chnilps IIo,wpII. KvpiiU Wright. Ki-I-so
P'renes wpiv iieifert In nttpinlan:e
for the half yinr.
A inrrp nutiilier nr ililiilreii iiimi
all over Hip pottnly took Hip examlnn
tloiii. hist I'lidin. Amll II. 'I be test
was for one :it s wotk; in plevbus
yi nr lite livl nils inen mi i two inrs
woik. nml twn ilni l.an him giv"i
fir tin- i iniriitnilpu. miup ii.p ten
In for ore year nnli. ami I but seven
.objects, Hip state th part uu nt bun
gien Instructions Hint Hip examina
tion in to le given hi ot.p ilnv.
Ai.nr.i:r. (ii;i;i;.-.Mi ui'in.
County Superintendent.
TIIKV A Hi: PXSSIMi.
Mm. Anna Ihislm-k-Kn ne eiimc In
Hull county when it wu hut six yearn
old uml when she wns bill a girl of
seven summers. She wns the ilnugh-
ter nf Mr. nml Mrs. I prdinnml lio-
slmk. pioneers nf our rounty. Dining .
all these ycnin site has lien u inshlcnl
or our county, mm nmy a lew weens
ago. by ten on of falting health, she
wpnl to I i.nilphnn, Kansas, to make
Iter honip with her daughter nml son-In-law,
Mr, nml Mr. John .Mclltlde,
wheie she died suddenly nn .Monday
nf this week, Apiil 17, It'll!. In the
Tlh It yenr of her ugp. She was boiti
Octobii' HI, lKllt.
She is sunlveil by four rhlldien,
.lames, of this city; Mrs. Im .Stpplten
son. nf Hownid eounty, Mo.; Nathan
II.. of MIMiiiI, Colo., nml Mrs. John
Mcltilde. of Dot'iplinn, ICausas. Slip
is IiImi slll'lhcd by a brotber, F. S,
Itostock, of thin city, uml n sister,
Mrs. Mary Vogan. of Culorado.
The IsNly wun bioitght to thin city,
Wednesday, uml tul.cn to the M, K,
church, when- fuui'inl service wen
cnmlucled by IIpv. W. .Meyer, of tint
ii mini ,M, I., rliiitdt, .Mm. Iveeney
had been a member of the M. 1..
church for half a century, TIip Inter-
incut was In Hip Maple drove cento-t.ry.
Sump More luiiiroicnient.
Andy Torhteruiun. contractor, linn
rliiM'd contracts with Kitley Ktinkel
for the erection of a hnmlsnmo ami
modern six-room hunualow In tho
O'l'nllnn addition.
lor a hnmlsonip inmlpin ipsldenco
for Levi Schulte in the Kussell addi
tion.
Hp is nlso remodeling the interior
of Hie Mrs, T, C, Diingun resilience,
and building a commodious gnruge.
Hp lias about rnmitlpteil the Itu il-
lug of an additional story tn tlio Fred
Holfmun resldenre.lmpi'ovlng It greatly-..
.
lie tins rnmpieieu ine large imple
ment wnreltnuse for Team & lluley.
erected on tho lot they recently pur
chased from the I. 0. 0. P. It Is 40
(iO, one story.
Operated Fpon for Appendlrllls,
Cuit Kennedy, who was taken verv
sick, while in St. Joseph, wnn taken
to tho Knsworth hospital on Wednes
day nf last week, and wns found to
no sintering from iippcm-icius, ami nn
tho following day, Thursday, April HI,
was operated upon, and at Hits writ
ing Is getting along nicely, and will
soon be able to return to his woik
here in Oregon. His sisters, Mrs. li,
A. Kvans, of Oregon; Mrs. Littleton
Darnell, or Mound City, nml Mrs.
Lnwrcnco Klllam, of Gallatin, wero In
St. Joseph with him. Ills mother, Mrs,
Wils Kennedy, of Oregon, was with
him nearly all of the time.
Contract Lei,
Tho Cornlnir School District direct
ors let tho contract last week to Wm.
L. Schragg for tho erection of n new
school building, necessitated by tho
destruction of their school houso by
lire, February 10, 1016.
Tho contract price Is ?8,"'J1, not In
cluding heating and plumbing, which
was let to a St. Joseph Unit for
f 1,771. The now building is similar
in architecture to. that or the nigciow
building. Mr. Schragg is tho con
tractor who erected the new Oregon
High School building, and his work
was highly satisfactory to our school
board and our people.
Mrs. Marie Ballanger and chil
dren, of Preston,, Nebraska, were vis
iting her parents, Elmer Mlnshall and
wife, of the Benton district, returning
to their 'home the first of b wek.
V.
1
