nnioriT ID AIDTOH? TTh A TFT W nPMll?Q
vol. - xx NO. 32.
11AKIIK, VERMONT, FJtlDAY, Al'IHi; 21, 1910.
ritlQE, OXK CKNT.
FRENCH RETAKE
LOST GROUND
WESTOFMEUSE
Their Offensive Continued to
Make Progress in the Re
gion of Dead Man's Hil
German Trenches Being
Captured and Some Pris
oners Taken
PAST OF MEUSE THEY
REPULSED GERMANS
In' the Sector North of Hau-
dremont Wood, French
Made Gains, According to
the Official Announcement
in Paris Allies Pleased
Over Russians
Paris. April 21. The French contin
tied to make progress in the region of
Dead Man's Hill on the Verdun front in
the lighting last night. The war office
announcement this afternoon reports the
capture of German trenches and four
officers and 150 men. .bast ot the .Meuse
a fierce German attack was repulsed. In
the sector north of Haudretuont wood
the French made gains.
Other victories were told about by the
Frenoh official statement last night, as
follows:
"In the Argonne our artillery cannon
aded the roads of communication behind
. the enemy front and the Malancourt
wood.
"West of the Meuse great artillery
activity prevailed in the sectors of Hill
304 and Avocourt. An attack launched
by us in the region of Le Mort Homme
enabled us to drive the enemy out of
some sections of a trench occupied by
him on April 10.
"Kast of the Meuse a violent bombard
ment occurred in the region of Douau
mont and Vaux. There were some ar
tillery gusts in the Woevre.
"The day was comparatively calm on
the rest of the front."
BRITISH ARE ELATED.
Over the Arrival of Russian Troops On
Western Front.
London, April 21. The arrival in
France of large numbers of Russian
troops to reinforce the western battle
line has brought great joy to the entente
allied countries, where it is hoped that
with them fighting shoulder to shoulder
at different points with the British,
French and Belgians, a material change
in the situation may shortly develop.
How many Russians have been sent
across seas by Emperor Nicholas is not
known, but what is described as "a great
flotilla of transport" arrived in the har
bor of Marseilles and almost immediate
ly afterwards landed the forces amid
the cheering populace and the French
troops gathered at the quay to meet
them and the roars of salutes.
i
DUTCH STEAMER
DESTROYED AND
FIVE DROWNED
DASH ON CANADA
WAS PART OF PLOT,
SAYS VON DER GOLTZ
The Vessel Went Down in Six Minutes,
According to Messages Sent to
Lloyds Thirty-six Sur
vivors Landed.
London, April 21. A Lloyds dispatch
from Ymuiden, Holland, says the Dutch
Steamship Lodewijk Van Nassau was
sunk yesterday afternoon. She went
down in six minutes and five of the crew
were drowned. Thirty-six survivors were
landed at Ymuiden.
British Ships Sunk.
The British steamer Cairgowan has
been sunk, according to Lloyds. Her
crew was saved. The steamer was not
armed.
The British bark Ravenhill wan sunk
Tuesday. The crew was saved and
landed yesterday, according to Lloyds
The crew of the bark was storm tossed
30 hours in an open boat on a rough
sea. They suffered greatly until picked
lip by the Dutch steamer Ocean.
ALL ON BOARD SAVED
Including Two Americans Ship Struck
Floating Mine.
Wahineton, D. C, April 21. The
American consul at Lisbon reported to
day that the Norwegian steamer Terjevi
ken, which ank April IS off Lisbon har
bor, struck a floating mine and that all
on board were saved, including two
Americans.
CRAZY SOLDIER
KILLED NINE,
WOUNDED MORE
Vienna Firemen Turned Hose on Him,
and He Continued to Shoot, Firing
Sixty Times Before Drop
ping His Weapons.
London, April 21. Nine were killed
and many were wounded in a street fight
on the outskirts of Vienna by Leopard
Fichtner, a ktndfturn infantryman, who
borame insane while in charge of a flic
port, Mys an Amsterdam dptch to the
Lxchange Telegraph company. IVhtner
legan firing at thoe in a hi-r with him
and then opened the window and f.rwd
upon tli crowd ia the street. VienRa
fremen. called ia a effort to aubdua
him. plated th be rm him while he
fred fiO more at them bf.-re drop- New York, two fmt raw f''.ed w,! dy
Secret Agent of German Government
Makes Sworn Statement in London
Which Uncovers Activities By Ger
man Reservists in United States.
London, April 21. The government
luat night issued a lengthy sworn state
ment by Horst Von Der Goltz, secret
agent of the German government, who is
now in the Lnited Mates in custody
giving full dctuils of his activities in
America
The statement bristles with dates and
names of places and of persons associat
ed with him. The government prefaces
it with a memorandum relating to on
Der iioltz's Identity and the manner of
his arrost in England.
1 he memorandum savs that when V on
Der Goltz was shown a check signed by
Captain Von Papen. former military at
tache of the German embassy at vtasn
inuton. which had been seized at Fal
mouth, he admitted his endorsement ana
asked to be allowed to make a voluntary
statement. He was thereupon given
writing materials and spent the night of
Jan. 31 in commline a statement, wnicn
he afterwards swore to.
The government's memorandum re
marks: "Von Der Goltz statement finds
detailed corroboration in the Von Papen
checks, which he cannot have known
were in the possession of the British au
thorities."
The statement of Von Der Goltz as
given out by the government is in part
as follows:
"On Aug. 3, 1914, I left the Mexican
army on leave and arrived at Kl Paso,
where Consul Kuck directed me to report
to Von Papen. After visiting Washing
ton and Asbury Tark I arrived in New
York in mid-August, stopping at the
Holland house.
"I visited Vice-Consul Kraske, who
suggested that I avoid being seen about
the consulate, and he would notify me
when to meet Von Pupen. A few days
later I met Von Papen. I was asked
mv opinion of a scheme suggested by a
certain Schuhmaeher for raiding towns
on the coast of the Great Lakes with a
motor boat armed with machine gins.
The proposal later was rejected owing
to the embassy receiving untavorabie in
formation about !ehulimaeher.
"I wias then requested to assist in a
scheme for the invasion of Canada by a
force recruited from reservists in the
United States aided by German warships
then in the Paciilc
"This scheme, which was proposed by
on Pnnen and Bov-Ed, wag abandoned
on the advice ot llernstonf,
Next, Von Papen asked me to confer
ith two Irishmen who proposed the
vnamiting of railwav junctions, grain
elevators and the locks of the canals
connecting the Great Lakes. It was
hoped thus to terrify Canada, prevent
ing the dominion from aiding the mother
country,
I received the Irishmen, who brought
maps and details of the plan. Before go.
S to Baltimore to consult Consul Leu
dertiz regarding the scheme, I employed
one man, Charles Tucker, alias Tuseheim-
. as an assistant. I then went to Hal-
more and consulted Leudertiz, who ob
tained a passport in the name of Taylor,
He also introduced me to the captain of
German ship at that time in the liar
bor, proposing that I make use of part of
s crew and one oflicer,
"Returning to New York I selected
three men to assist me and acquainted
them with part of the details of th
scheme. I received a check from on
Papen, which was cashed for me by Mr.
Stanford, a member of a German club.
"Regarding the material, arms and dy
namite needed. Von Papen informed me
that Captain Tauscher, of Xrupp a agen
cy, had agreed to furnish them. I saw
Tauscher. He gave me a letter of intro
duction to the IXiPont Powder com
pany, recommending B. H. Taylor 4, Co.,
and supplied me with an order to the
man in charge of dynamite barges lying
on the New Jersey side of the statue of
Liberty. s
"Tauscher told me he would send pis
tols by messenger to Hoboken, to be de
livered there to one of my agents at a
certain restaurant, as he was liable to
punishment if he delivered them in New
York without a permit.
"In order to get dynamite it was nec
essary to hire a motor-boat at a place
near 146th street, Harlem, and put the
dynamite aboard in suitable cases. Aft
er getting the explosive I went by taxi
cab with two suit cask's to the German
club and saw Von Papen. I then took
the dynamite to mv rooms, where I also
kept a portion of the arms packed in a
small portmanteau. The remainder were
in the keeping of two agents, one Wing
Mr. Fritzen, the discharged purser of a
Russian steamer, the other a Mr. Busz,
a commercial agent who formerly lived
in England.
"The only other agent I employed was
C. Covani, who attended me personally,
Tucker not being entrusted with any of
those things.
"Two or three days later I received
from Von Tapen at his rooms at the club
In the presence ot rritzon and Lovani a
supply of generators and wire which I
took to my rooms in a taxicab. A few
days later we left the Grand Central
station for Buffalo, Fritzen, Busz and
Tinker taking care of the munitions,
Covani attending me.
"In Buffalo I hired rooms at ISO Dela
ware avenue. I had the dyncimite
brought there and spent some days gath
ering information alwiit the precautions
taken by (anuria. Then I myself and
mv agents went to Niagara Falls, N. Y.,
Sept. I."..
"While ill in Buffalo I received a
telegram from Von Papen. signed Stef
fens. informing me that a lawyer, .Tohn
Ryan, had money and instructions. I re
ceived the money hut no in-tniet ions.
Being thrown on mv own resources, I de
termined to reomnoiter the terrain where
I wanted to act. but on the 2"th Rtan
summoned me.
Having received, prit-atclv, informa
tion that the first Canadian contingent
had left Yalearticr camp. I knew I should
be recalled. a the object of my enter
prise was thus removed. Ryan ban, led
m a telegram of recall.
"As my funds were insufficient. I d
charged Bum and Fritrcn at Buffalo and
left th fnnnition in the L-eeriir -
ariat.r. who w manager of r!' re !
tanrtnt at Niagara Kali, and returned
to New York. j
"pb I a pea no d;retetj me to pro
ceed in Germany. He aij he nu' ar
range with Irntrff for nv pf . I
rstid oT Cotani. directing . m to r-more
from the bou at 113 or 115 IMh street.
ALL DEPENDS
ON GERMANY
United States Will Take No
Action Till a Reply
Is Received
PRESBYTERY TAKES
UP McNEIL CASE
s JAPAN BEGINS
NEW PROTEST
OR SHIP TORPEDOED
BY A SUBMARINE
Secretary Lansing Went into
Conference with Pres
ident Wilson
Washington, D. C, April 21. Secre
tary Lansing, who conferred with Pres
ident Wilson before the cabinet meeting
to-day, said he did not expect any ac
tion on the submurine situation until a
reply is received from Germany or nn
less another ship carrying Americans is
torpedoed by a German submarine. He
said that in case the diplomatic relations
between the two nations are broken the
work of the United States in caring for
tlio diplomatic interests of Germany in
other countries, in all likehood,' will be
suspended.
In explaining the demand of the Unit
ed Status, officials said that while aban
donment of the present illegal methods
at once was essential to continuance of
diplomatic relations, the United States
might agree to German submarines oper
ating under the strict restriction of
cruiser warfare. It was emphatically
eiterated, however, that a discussion of
that phase would not be entered into
until the present campaign was brought
to a stop. The United States stands
firm in its determination not to tolerate
the unlawful and unhuniane sinking of
another ship.
Cruiser warfare such as would be re
garded as legal by the American gov
ernment, would make imperative, the ex
ercise of the right to visit and search,
the passengers and crew being accorded
a degree of safety considered adequate.
The mere placing of passengers and
crews in small boats far from land ami
in dangerous seas would not meet re
quirements. i
The Mediterranean plan of warfare, as
announced in the German memorandum
on January 2 to the United States, has
not worked satisfactorily, adnnnistra
tion oflicials consider. It is held that
in many instances, submarine cominan
ders operating in the Mediterranean have
disregarded the understanding in letter
and in spirit. Count Von Benmtorff is
unuerstood to have suggested to his gov
eminent that it issue a new declaration
applying to all submarine operations
similar to that covering the campaign
in the Mediterranean.
The ambassador called at the state de
partment and had a 25-minute confer
ence with Secretary Lansing. Mr. Lans
mg listened with much interest to the
suggestions made by Count on Bcrns
torff which he understood the ambassa
dor was ready to muke to his own gov
eminent. The secretary, however, was
disposed to accept the views expressed
by the ambassador, as being not olhcial
but as the ambassador's own opinion and
nformativc of the latter s desire to pre
vent a break between his country and
the United states. I he president, nav
ing laid down the condition that there
must be an abandonment of the present
submarine methods, Secretary Lansing
takes the view tiiat there must be direct
and formal response from the German
government itself before there can be
discussion of the various phases of the
subject or of any alternative proposition
short of absolute compliance with Amer
ican demands.
As a result of his conference, Count
Von Bernstortl sent another communi
cation to his government last evening.
It was made clear at the German em
bassy that the ambassador did not ex
pect to call upon Secretary Lansing un-
il after his government had made for
mal reply to the American note.
striction of Japanese
Laborers
Appointed Committee to Investigate Sit
' uttion at Graniteville Lively Dis
cussion on Matter Was Held.
t 11 r ( . . ' 1 oi Tl.. I
Rev. McNeil of Graniteville, Vt., was Against the PrODOSed Re
again considered at the session ot tlio
Newbury port Presbytery in the First
Presbyterian church yesterday. Alter a
lively discussion it was voted to appoint
a committee comprising Rev. James v,
Smith of Manchester, Rev. Mr. Simpson
o...l 1,-1. 1,,- l'r,,l- M l,4ll of South
Ryegato to investigate the trouble. It AMBASSADOR SEES
was voted to install uev. jur. cumpson ui PPPQTnrXTT trTT cjrM
South Rvcte Thursday. May 4. KrOlJ.l 1 WILbUJN
" ." CI '
Rev. James Melnnis of Manchester re
ported on work among lumbermen in
Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont,
Rev Mr. smith spoke of work among Kyighes to Abrogate the So
members of the Svnan colony in Man-
called Gentlemen's
Agreement
Chester. What is being done in foreign
missions was given special attention by
Rev. rrancis H. I-aird.
There was another lively .discussion
when a report was asked of Rev. 1.
James McFaddin of the church in, New-
buryport. This was continued between Washington, D. C, April 21. Viscount
rtev. air. iucramun anu xvev. jur. iuuii- r . ,.,. t. .i,.j.
son until other members suggested that , , . '
h ...KWt ,ror,noo Konorta from I errea wun t resident lison to-day over
other churches of the Presbytery were the provision pending in the immigra
read. tion bill which proposes to enact into law
Rev. (.eorge C. Wright and A. v. tar- t,e so-culle,) wntinn,.. nr...,t ,
ter, senior deacon in the First Congre- . .. . . T , ,
irational church here, were introduced to " e "M'"e ia""r
members of the Presbytery. . P-rs. a memorandum on tno subject nas
been presented to the state department,
The proposed inclusion in the law of
an informal agreement which Japan had
Is Planned By County Agents and State promised on her honor to fulfill, ac-
TRI-C0UNTY FARM MEET
Agricultural Officials
cording to an agreement between for
Wells' River, April 21
state extension work, Thomas Bradlee
and the assistant county agent leader.
Jay Coryell, met with County Agents
Ray E. Deuel of Orleans county, Leland
A. ood of Caledonia county and It,
Abbott of Washington county at Hale's
tavern in ells River yesterday to con
I mir Kiwirnfarw rf Siittta .1 C . ......
he dire-tor of A,nKn(laoj, V ...- . .. .,.,
be repugnant to the Japanese govern
ment.
For many obvious reason the attitude.
of the administration is said to be a dis
inclination to imitate the situation be
tween Japan and the United States,
i 1 i i . . t
fer unon nlans for this summer and fall. """ " ' "8 en smouH.ering since me
F. If lvlnH nf Hrn nmnlrr w. . P"" Illl-aiiril lima law negoua
pected to lie present, but was unavoid- tions wrnt into n indefinite stage three
ablv absent. rB
The crop demonstration work was tak-
"!? !!' rrl RANDOLPH WOMAN
this line. Kxcept for a few localities,
the same general demonstration ideas
are being carried out bv the county
gents throughout the state. Addison Miss ineresa Moore saw Her Aged Aunt
county farmers have discovered that oat
CUT HER THROAT
DELIVERED LAST EVENING.
American Note Now in Hands of Ger
man Foreign Office.
London, April 21. The American note
to Germany was handed in at the Ger
man foreign office Thursday evening by
James W. Gerard, the American ambas
sador, says the Exchange Telegraph's
Amsterdam correspondent.
The chancellor, the correspondent adds,
has not yet seen the note, as he is at
army headquarters, but he has communi
cated with the foreign office by telephone.
mut is costing them nearlv one-third of
their yield and last year 20 demonstra-
lon plots showed the results of treating
oat-seed for smut and this year County
Agent Carrigan estimate that fully one
half the oat seed in Addison county will
be subjected to the treatment.
Removed from Her House and Then
She Killed Herself with Butcher
Knife She Had Once Before
Tried Suicide.
Randolph, April 21. Miss Theresa
rians were taken up for holding a tri- -Moore, living on Park street, com-
countv field meeting and picnic, with milted suicide yesterday afternoon
stock judging and speaking as features, by cutting her throat with a butcher
Such a meeting is already fixed for Au- er knife, and when found by a
gust, in the town of Weston, to take in neighbor, Mrs. FasRctt, was dead. Miss
the four southern counties. State Com- Moore had bten taking care of an aged
missloner Hrigham will he one -of the aunt, Sirs. Coreveau, and, being very
speakers at this meeting. tired, it had been thought best for her
Keports were made on the farm man- to have rest, and a place had been found
agement demonstrations. Everywhere for Mrs. Coreveau at the home of Miss
that tliits has been taken up, the farmers Emeroy Matthews for her to be cared
want more of it. They can see the bene- for while Miss Moore had relief from the
lit of making farming a real business care temnorarilv. The ambulance went
and treating it as such. larger areas for Mrs. Coreveau at about 2:30 and
will be covered by the farm survey took her there, and it is thought that
workers this year in order to make it ia Moore committed the act at once
more comprehensive and of more value after ,be had seen her aunt off Th
HOWE CHAIRMAN
OF REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION
Former Lieutenant Governor Chosen By
State Committee Charles H. Dar
ling of Burlington Chairman of
the Resolutions Committee.
Announcement was miido to-day by
Stanley C. Wilson of the Republican
state committee that Frank E. Howe of
Bennington, former lieutenant governor
of v ermont, will be temporary chairman
of the Republican state convention, to be
held in the Montpelier city hall May 2(1
for the purpose of electing four delegate
and four alternates to the Kepublican
national convention and the further an
nouncement was made that Charles H,
Darling of Burlington will lie chairman
of the committee on resolutions.
The state committee is arranging to
secure some prominent member of the
Republican party to address the conven
tion, and several national figures are be
ing considered for the position. The se
lection of temporary chairman of the
convention was left by the state commit
tee at its meeting in Burlington April 10
to the executive committee, and that
committee haa just completed the ar
rangement.
EXHIBIT WORTH SEEING.
Some Very Interesting Things Displayed
at Howland Hall.
.For another afternoon and evening the
most interesting and instructive exhibit
of modern art, pottery and remnants of
lilt dwellers products along these lines.
will be shown to-day at Howland hall
from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 p. m. Although
the exhibit has been well frequented, the
number ot visitors would havo been
greatly increased if they had known
earlier what rare opportunity presents
tself for just the cost of time on their
part, for which they would be niore than
repaid. ,
Besides pottery, which has. been
brought here from all over the United
State, through the generosity of the
Barre Woman's club, at their expense, a
fine collection of local art proeelains is
shown. Photographs and many paint-
ngs have been lent bv local artists and
rt collectors, which for themselves are
well worth seeing. Those who will visit
this free exhibit will not regret having
gone there, but those who missed seeing
will. Sometime between 7:30 and
:30 this evening an extract from a pa
per on art pottery will be read, and all
re invited to attend.
(Signed) By a Visitor.
GIRL'S SCREAMS
SCARED MEN
SHIPS
MADE -RF'.JY
Thirty War Vessels at the
Charlestown, Mass., Navy
Yard Are Being Over
hauled, About 7,000 En
listed Men Being Put to
Work on Them To-day
IN A FEW DAYS THEY
WILL BE IN SHAPE
Reason Given for Employ
ment of Men in the Service
Instead of Civilians Was
Because of Alleged Short
age of Machinists to Be
Secured
to the farmers.
It is planned to have a Vermont day
at the national dairy show in Springfield,
Mass., and for the county farmers' bu-
.r.u m. . authorities were at once called.
iiHins ituu accoiiiriKKiaiions lor me Ver
mont farmers.
The New England fruit show comes to
neighbor went in to see how she wa
and not finding her about, pushed open
a door and found her lying on the floor.
They summoned Ih Russlow, and the
Miss Moore had been out of her mind
and several years ago attempted suicide
i . .. i . : . : . . I... l i- i
mr . it , i, , I O , lttKIUi; 1101901, Otll. Bllt? H IflOMl'U
Montpelier this fall and the counties and U , . ,
: n.:. ..- ::4 i i , t .i. . from this attempt and was thought to
in lion tn-OMtv Biiwum ict'l I flL lis . . , . .. , .
ity
success depends upon them. We have
unlimited opportunities along this line
and evervone who possibly can should
make an effort to send in or bring in an
exhibit.
READY TO RETURN
OFFICIAL PAPERS
BIGGER VERDICT THAN BEFORE.
L. M. Carpenter of BTattleboro Won $11,-
204.13 from Central Vermont.
Brattleboro, April 21. After consider
ing the evidence about five hours the
jury in the damage suit of Lisle M. Car
penter of Brattleboro against the Cen
tral Vermont Railway company, report
ed at 0 o'clock last night in count-
court at Newfane, a verdict for Mr. Car
penter of $11 .204.1. i.
Although the previous verdict of $0,-
250 in this case was the largest ever
awarded in the Windham county court
a personal damage suit, last nights
award was nearly $2.ooo larger.
It is understood that the case may be
taken to the supreme court on excep-
ions to the county court s ruling, and
f it doe it will le for the third time.
Mr. Carpenter is a former employe of
the lentral Vermont road. He lost a
leg as the result of being run over in
the yard at South Londonderry in 1!X;.
The next year he sued for $15,000 and
in 1012 the suit was tried and an award
made of lf.!, ."0.
bo all right. Deceased wins about 50
years of age and is survived by one sis
ter living in New Jersey. She was in
very comfortable circumstances financially.
VICTIM OF THUGS.
THE ITALIAN IDEA.
As Exposed By Newspaper on the Sub
marine Situation.
Rome, via Paris. April 21. Italian
newspapers comment on the American
note to Germany. "Either submission
or rupture is the dilemma in which Pre-
George W. Stilson Died at Portsmouth,
N. H, To-day.
Portsmouth, N. If., April 21. George
. Stilson, ;., who ran a saloon on Ladd
street, was found riving on the sidewalk
I near his home on Heet street, early this
morning, under conditions that strongly
indicated foul play. He. was ruhed to
the Portsmouth hospital, but died there
shortly after arrival, from a fractured
(kull. He did not regain consciousness.
It is alout five minutes' walk from
Mr. Stilson's place of business to his
home on Fleet street. It is said that he
was in the habit of carrying a consider
able sum of money w ith him each night,
when he started from Ins saloon.
Atiout midnight John Woods, w ho lives
on Fleet street, not far from Mr. Stil
son's residence, heard several peculiar
whistles, as though two people were
communicating with each other. He paid
no particular attention to the matteruntil
he heard moaning sounds coming from
the street, when he at once investigated.
Fleet street is quite dark at night, but
after some investigating Mr. Woods
found Mr. Stilson lying in a pool of
Mood on the sidewalk. He at once no
tified the authorities and the injured
man was rushed to the Portsmouth hos
pital.
He was attended by I)r. t, . Towle.
who nnnouni-e,! that the man was sutler
ing from a fractured Kkull. and that,
in his opinion, the wound was causer!
They Fled from Automobile Into Which
the Girl Had Been Dragged Rutland
Police Have Alleged Kid-
. napping Case.
Rutland, April 21. The police and
Grand Juror Charles E. Novak of this
ty are looking for John Mamarda and
incenzo Stino, young Italians, and ara
deavormg to work out the reason for
supposed attempt to' kidnap Mary
t.orsa, age li, of Rutland in broad day
light in the heart of the city yesterday
afternoon. hile George Conlon, an em
ploye, was looking out of a window at
the Rutland Manufacturing company of
tice he saw a tuxicab driven by Earl C.
Noyes of this city and occupied by two
men who turned out to be Stillo and
Camarada stop near. Soon Miss Corsa
cume along on her way to work in a
nearby factory. The men jumped from
the taxi and dragged her screaming into
the automobile. The car was started
away at top speed but after it had prog
ressed a block the occupants, seeing that
the girl's outcries attracted atention,
jumped from the vehicle and fled along
the railroad track towards West Rut
land. Conlon went to the girl's assistance.
She g'ive the names of the men and said
that she once kept company with one of
them. She could give no reason for their
attitude toward her.
Boston, April 21. Seven thousand
bluejackets at the Charlestown navy
,-ard were put into .overalls to-day for
the purpose of making 30 war vessels in.
the harbor ready for the sea at the earli
est possible hour. It was authoritatively
stated that virtually every ship will be
at top-notch efficiency in a few days.
Enlisted men are being employed because
of the difficulty of obtaining a sufficient
force of civilian machinists. Half of the
7,000 were recalled from furloughs and
shore leaves.
"It is a measure of efficiency," it was
officially explained, "the necessity for
which was increased by the fact that we
have been handicapped for months by a
shortage of civilian workmen."
The vessels being overhauled include,
six battleships with a total of about
5,000 officers and' men, 10 torpedo boat
destroyers, three scout cruisers, one sub
marine and auxiliary ships.
NO ANNOUNCEMENT MADE.
BORN IN EAST MONTPELIER.
Mrs. Sarah T. Ormsbee Passed Away in
Montpelier To-day.
Mrs. Sarah Templcton Orm.-bee, wid
ow of the late Denison Ormsbee of East
Montpelier, died at 0 o'clock this morn
ing at the home of Dr. P. L. Templcton
of Montpelier, her nephew, from valvular
heart trouble. She had been residing in
Montpelier about six months.
She was the daughter of William and
Sally Templcton, born in East Montpe
lier Nov. 22, 1S:),1. She wius married to
Mr. Ormsbee and rcsiriedin the West for
several years. Mr. Ormsbee died 37
vears ago. No children were born to
them. For the past 27 years Mrs. Orms
lee hail resided in New York City and
Kast Montpelier.
She is survived by cousins and neph
ews. .Mr. templcton. t. O. Ormsbee of
Montpelier, Mrs. Melvina Templcton of
Montpelier and Milo Templcton of Oak
land. Cal.
Funeral service will be held at 1:30
o'clock Sunday afternoon.
But Ambassador Von Bernstorff . Must
First Identify Them as Official Doc
uments of His Embassy.
Washington, P. C April 21 The state
sn,l iiiutioA rlr.rrmonts fi vi rii n -a. I .
rf.v th covernmrnf. Willi.,.-., to r. inevitable but (.ernmny
turn the (-rn.an emha-v .11 n.r. ! ""icceeded in findms a way out. Idea Mr. Stilson carried a portion of th
sci,e,1 in WW York .t the 'tin,, the i Naxionale doe. not think Germany will div's receipts with him to his home each
arrest of Yon Igel which Count Von I ,1!T'n,I,'r "J1 "rrt th,"t. h'K ,hTiWbt. and the nature of the wound.
ujiMiv ii iiiiiMiittit- teiaie'iis ""t" wnicn caused nis u.'hui. iea o me ic
n"t nece-sarily mean wr it would lea l ;,.f that he was the victim of a holJ-
ident Wilson puts Ormanv."
sav l,.. blackia.'k or some similar weanon.
Giornale ri" Italia. The Tribune recniii "The officers are working on the ne.
that on other occasions submission or ; but have no clew s to start w ith. The
fmt that it was quite well known t.iai
BerntorfT will identify as official doc
uments. Phot 'graphs of the pa'r lmvr
len made and will be retained. Von
lWntorff protested timorously against
the taking f the paper, and it fit said
at the Mate department that I-ansmg
w considering the ne.rity of an offi
cial apology.
jirg his wespoos.
camite.
know, a I sailed the !th of O, tVr for
Ii!r. Nini that time I have bd no
communication with Yon IVpcn."
In an appended list f ti.me. and
lt-. Yon Ijrr Iroltr. mention, a man
nm"J "N moo." de--r:b:nc Huffs Jo a hi
home. S TTKtn. the Maten;nt knew
of tJ fVmi- and " -! J fy hi.
Kno!Ve of tTrain."
Another m ard ad :r- f en i -J.
P. 7mrr. P" I'.r!rj buioiing. Paf-
W hither h- con - :.e-l I k "t fK"
to grate con.-.u. ncr. fc, the future.
TROOPS IN MEXICO
WAITING" ON WASHINGTON
LI Paso. Tex., April li--patche.
from the front to-dar m-di-tcd
tlit the Amrrhan troop,
are sw!tus ricveojmeit t
AhiM-ton before mkinif y
ft:rthr rTTt to .-ptsire hit.
The mor 7Tif.it of tr-'p from
poiii!. ilnj He bor-l.T to ,.lnm
I. :. V. M.. where t',y wtl he It'll
it r '.!ne to reii.firr rh-irij-'.
rniT in c of rw-- tr,
was irt uoi'd tt iU.
up and assault.
Mr. Stilson i married, an old res
ident, and was well known in the com
munity. He formerly worked at the
navy yard.
TO RELEASE DYESTUFFS.
TOO MANY CHILDREN.
Chairman Ward Says License Board Will
Meet Again To-night.
No licenses were awarded last night
or to-day, according to the statement of
Chairman W. H. Ward of the board of
license commissioners made this after
noon at 2:30 o'clock, and awards will
not be known until to-night after tho
commissioners meet again at city hall.
Street rumors current late last night
and throughout the day had it that ap
plicants, in several instances, had been
told to go ahead with their plans for
opening liquor establishments May 1.
Apparently the commission purposed
making announcement this forenoon, but
for a certain reason it was decided to
withhold the list that presumably had
been in the making ever since the hear
ing adjourned Tuesday afternoon.
hen interviewed this afternoon
Chairman Ward declared that, as the
commission had not made up its list, the
rumors rife since last night s meeting of
the commissioners must be without foun
dation. According to some of the stories ,
circulated about town, cerjain of the np
plicauts were making preliminary ar
rangements for opening day, May 1.
Notwithstanding the postponement of
the official announcement, it is said that
the suspense rejiorted to have existed
among applicants who were anxious to
have the commissioner act. appeared to
have been relieved in some quarters to
day. CASE MAY END TO-MORROW.
Foley vs. Zanleonis, Owners Of Park
Theatre Building.
Witnesses introduced by the defene
in the case of Clarence E. Foley vs.
Charles and Mary JCanleoni on trial in
Washington county court included Man
ager John Fames of the Park Theatre
Amusement company and other members
of the corporation. Their testimony
tended to show that the building in
which the motion theatre is located was
not of sufficient height and that because,
of that fact the cage in which the nii-
hine is placed, had to be so constructed
that the roof extended up through the
roof of the theatre building. Among the
witnesses introduced by the defense were
Contractor A. P.. Ijine, Karl Batclielder,
.1. .1. Goodwin. Mr. Royoe, a carpenter.
Charles Zunleoni and his ton, Charles
Zanleoni, jr.
Clarence Foley, the plaintiff, w-as the
only witness introduced by J. Ward
Carver, attorney for the contractor, who
is seek ins
by a previous marriage.
Mis. Brunetti had never n her Mi-
chele until she met him at the steam
ship pier, for the marrmi:e had been ar
ranged bv mutual friends. At the hear-
injr 1-cfore the Inward of -perial inquiry
l.e told the inspector she knew he had
ls n married before, and t!;t he had
ItWrt (lilhlrfTI
Germany Is Willing United States! The pirl had ilentr of moner and re-
Should Have 15,000 Tons. .tail Ml.!e for her i j-m. Yeterdav
s'i a rrl- I an I went t O'uni v
t. liw with a nnin.
Young Italian Girl Refused to Marry
Father of Seven.
Bo-ton. April 21. Biama Brunetti, a
pretty, young Italian girl who arrived
here a week ago on the White Star line
Ad.i.;n . vi ;..!...!..
Salvasgi. a M.l.ord stonecutter, refused!"' hied during the trial by
to carry out her part of the agreement j "'f, rfen.Ljnt. more witne.se. may bo
when she learned that her intended h.w- rehutt.,1 The jury w.ll no, he
hand was the father of seven children 'YIT .""(' tn 'r" U"'
to recover for con-truction
work done for the Ztiileo.iis, but becvine
SUGAR UP TO WEIGHT.
!
Washington. P. April 2!. The Ger
man go-ernr.wnt h agreed to permit
i eipoftation to t!i I n'ted Mate of ..-
I ,' t'T. of :etttfT. J.,, V of Hh ha
' i"-rioii-iv a :? Aiwiwj t vt;ie n n-
l :' 1 irer. Xfttifi.at.on to ti,i e:.st i orth.-n Fr!av t
i
Clerks' Notice.
There will 1 a eleil" rntr; at V
" o.
, 1
Commissioner Carpenter Not Called Upon
to Prosecute.
Commissioner of Weight and Me.,
lire ;. K. ( mpepter report. th i.
Id.', of th- at of V'y reUti2 to the
. ;m! weight of a gilhrn of maple vrup
i, lcen carefully olferve by pr hi -er.
of the nut pie prodmt t'.i priris. t!-e .le
partm.'tit n.-t hating found it norsry
1., prosecute a sir'le tiolati..n. The
.ie-rnt law make, it n.-oes.ary for a g-
,,n ot svrtip t' II jsxin i-. an ! a
A;i . iMia;ty of pre- r.!-1 in th.- .t for
w a. .oiit Jiiie.1 in a K-e ,). !nerr-l yet'-r-.hrk t-u't 1 r-- r.t an! tr- -'r or , a frt o;'.-n-e. .m:n--i r i ij--ter
ay i t i o;n t t.n i-ernnorn, ,r- ir--T m i ! frvr i. I rr v: i i t' mn- n-.i osi . . -
B.aa -i-Uisa J.ST, Ut etUry Lif.--g- I ec. vec bite l' r. ry j-.t.fy r.
I
