1
CARRIZOZO OUTLOOK
Published Weekly in the Interest of Carrizozo, and Lincoln County
VOL X NO. 18
CARRIZOZO. LINCOLN COUNTY. NEW MEXICO. FRIDAY, APRIL 21. 1)16
PRICE $(.50 PER YEAR
COLONEL ROOSEVELT
I .
":jr" -a. !". r'!z.rz district court
PAR PRESIDENT r1 8 our " rl '
w mjuijui we mould feel mat wo
As a people
had hung
hack, that we hadn't 'cone the
Now York Tribuno Siiys it is limit" In the true Atnerlfnn ay,
AdvoCtttitlE Hooeevelt for Tho goventnenls of Europe would
the Presidency Because tho 'el ll,Is. w. They would conclude
Country Needs Him
CONVENES HAY 8TH
Regular Term of District
Court for Lincoln County
Will Convcnuo in Carrizozo
on Above Date
NO ONE ELSE WILL QUICKEN
THE PULSE OF THE NATOIN
that we meant to tempotizo. Some
thing would ho loat of the moral
effcot of moving straight on under PETIT JURY WILL BE
tho leadership of tho man who ro- CALLED THURSDAY, MAY
presents ino purpose oi tins country
II
Colonel Roosovelt and no "pussy
footingl"
Tho Tribuno likes this candidate
and tbit issue.
It regards Senator Root, its fa
vprito bo long as ho hada chanco of
nomination, is now practically ol.
minated. It cannot intrrpret any
moro honefullv the failure of the
"oxeen troatnicnt" which his can
as no ono else does or can.
The regular April term of DIs
The Colonel elands for tho t"''" trict Court for Lincoln Counly
Tho Tribune stands for. These
things will bo ndvanced mnro by
his nomination than by any other
nomination that can bo made. The
Tribune must support him
Wo aro doing more this year than
choosing a now President, We are
choosing which way tho country
IIAKCII lIUnWIIUHl lllfcll 1110 WMU- , ... .1.1-. ... -
i i i .i i t .i sha go in tho era thut is now open- i, .t.
d daoy receivod, n the shape of the .b , . '.. Juty w
. ... . r i ng, just as our fathers chose the , .
man festo with seventvfivo signers. b" , .. . . . 10im ing or ci
n.. i.!...... ..... m. r. nation's path In the doye of 1800
Tho party think that Mr. Root
would not bo so likely to win as
either Colonel Hossevelt or Justice
Hughes, and it wants him nsSecre
larv of Stato in the next Republl
-New York Tribune.
JONES-HIGHFILL
Lost Sunday evening Mr.
convene in Carrizozo on Monday,
May 8th, Judge Edward L. Medler,
preiidlng
Tho court officials will be
appointed Monday and tho grand
jury has been subpoenaed to appear
on the same day and will Mat! their
deliberation then, while tho petit
ioh has to dn with tho try
cases will uc oalieu inure
day.
A great number of criminal and
civil cuses aro to como before the
grand jury for Investigation,
Many criminal cines aro to be
tried at this time, and the term
Carl
can administration, since it cannot Jones and Miss Lola Hlghfill, both
havo him as President. of this place were united in martiage will probably lust for live or six
We are for Colonel Iloosovelt he- in El I'aso In the presence of Im- weeks,
nniiRn wn bülievR tho country needs mediato relatives Mr Jones has Undrrsherlff John 11. Uulrd has
w - I I
Nn mm nlio will nulckoii the nulBe been a residont of Carrizozo a num- been out for a week or more sum
of the nntion os he will quicken i, ber w ears as an employe of the monlng the panel of the two juries
I " I ..l.al. . I..Mn.nn
Nnnnnnlnn will tir tllB conic ence RMiitlnvoalnrn Ruatnm nnil la nnn fif "'" " iuiumtb.
nf llm nnnnln nn hn urltl stir It. No It,. ..nmmimUv'a tnnat nnltnl nnttm GRAND JUM
i ni n.nu. M.lnH.m not mi.. I..M. i.. I I II . B. Dcnooy. Aiejo ncinurnno, . u
urn) cud nui unnu iv....... lyuuilK IIIUII. Mm Ululo nun i.iiii. i j ill Knmrl Inlin Until, u
lie will inspire it. for a number of years lite popular At.unjr0 Gallumi, A J. Burnt, Frank
in it i i ... i .
No one else pcrsoniucs ino issue oncf operator of the local tolcpiwno Armera, llatph Dow, John Martin, A. O
which the Ilepubllnan party must Lvchance and in both nubile and Umairua, l' H. l'kltlipi, Jora Montoyo
tnako as he pereonifies it. No one private life has made scores of ad
else presents so effective an autlthe- miring friends. In Abort tho entire
sis to Wilson as he. If we are citlzensshlp of Carrizozo extends to
Americans, real Americans, the L)e young couple itH hearty wishes
ColoncJ is our man. While timid for the best that life can oxlend to
politicians were consulting tne cen- them. Mr. and Mrs Jones are at
sus books and counting the German ,ome ,, t)0 newly furnished bunga
voto he spoke and tho country how near the Baptist Church
hearkened, He is tho loader in tlie
fight for Amerloanism,ond wo don't DELEGATE CONVENTION
believe In changing leauers wnen
- t . .t.. r ..... i
we ore BU,"B u . . n..l.ll. nnriv f Lincoln Count v "T"' ''.IT, I,,... .....7..
Wo are for Colonel Roosevelt In "! . Vl" " a.,. i ' "uor" "c"' " " " . T' , "
spite of the fact that we were against . d.,MlltM l . K vw. , k. ClofT, Antonio
him four yeori ago. nooneiougnt nnnn . ah,.,. lotero. Qontunlo Wllsun, M. M. ltmd.
him harder than we. no ono win ... ... . ... A., u J. Uoimcll.
fight harder for him. It hat not
been easy to put anide our pride
our Benso of resontment at what oc
burred in 1012, and the hundred
other things that tend to keep alive
divisions.
IKruili Santina, A. 0. Clul-tUu, A
Btovtr, II, E. P. Warden, Faustino Vttct
IS. W, Hale.
TALESMEN
T W. Stoneroail, I'untnlcoii Turrn
Uogundo Pineda, U. II.Tliorntoii, Antonio
ll&lilaiiinlo.
PETIT JURY
O.O. Mereliniit, Fullpn Snlm, W.
Oninni, Tliuina Bcliilinuker, lloyinund
Sanclioi, J V; Tully, Francisco (loiuuleii
11. E. Ilcrry, .lone Torre y Uliuvcz, Tuniai
Pincdn. Frank Maxwell, Palilo Halas
HELD ON GRAVE CHARGE
A most serious charge was befóte
Justic Massio yesterday afternoon
In which W. II. Cavanotighof Teua,
loto was plaintiff and one Florón
tino Flores the defendent. It was
charged that on Wednesday night
Flores in company wiin tnreeoiner
Mexicans entered the dwelling of
avauaugh who is ndvanced in
the old man found himself cnmplote
ly at tho mrcy of his tulhless os
BUIIUIIIH. IJISIUS UCIIIli iiiciuiiudo..
beaten and threatened with death
tho points of three rilTel
Ctivoiinugh was inbbed of some
100 cos i n fact lie lioure was
enmnletelv rifled, even the supply
or nroviüol.ü be ne toKeu uy uiu
vlllianans quartette of scoundrels.
Local oliivcrs hastened tn the
scene with all uosslble speed and
arrested four Mexicans n suspects
Mr. CavotiBUiih wus able Jo Oe
finillv Identify only ono of litem us
his assailant, so l lores wlio was un-
ninfniliinablv onu of the band was
. . . . . .. i i ...
retained in delimit oi .y.:uini unnu i
awult In n local cell tho notion of
he next dislrlot court lhe other
three hombres could not be nnsltl
. . . . i
velv connected with the ituulr anil
nltliniiuli thev were duly set at
liberty, they cnnlintto under the
.Hirers' survelllunco while the
search for the iibalule cstubllsh
Ing of the guilt Is being presented
Ml the community h nUnl with
repuganco nt the extreme coward
ce and atrocity of this outrage an
the best w slim of all couii men
attend the officers us they strive
run the other three to earth Nec
essorlly the tnsk is n ill flit; ul t nn
owing to the solitary life which Mr
Cavonatigh led ns ftiretnnn nf
WILLOW SPRINGS MINE
TO BE MODERNIZED
ho Now Owner Una Big.
Plana and Ampio IteaourccH
loPut Thorn Through to
tho Smallest Detail
NEW AND MODERN MACHIN
ERY WILLIE INSTALLED
April
tn the State Convention at Albu
qtterque, which will bo held on April
Cth. Dr, T. W. Watson was chcled
Chairman, O. T. Nye, Secretary,
and I'erry Ilightower Intreprotor.
Every precinct In the county had
n.u ..!..- ,i.nm full representation at the conven
Í.JUV " W II W wiiwoa i i
. ... .i ..i.i. nnn anu n most oniiiunwiuu mm
aside anu are pimiug iu umun . . ..
r..i it.... Interesting meeting was hold. Af.
p aco In a crisis like this. Wocomt, o consideration the fnllowlng
i..?' ntn...l nonHflveltasa lie. "elegates were selected tn attend
uu, lu, -- --- , n,.ul , a
publican newspaper, intending to - 1 r ...
remain Republican, nnd wo feel thut
In lining so we aro doing ino nest
thing not only for tho nation but
for the Republican party
We might have preferred another
leader, but there is no other loador.
Justice Hughes might havo spoken
if he had been frro to spook. In
deed, we feel euro he would have
spoken, and for Amerloinlsm, had
llenos not been Imposed upon him,
tructod: Dr T. W. Walton, Hon
Seth F. Crews, H. S. Hannor, W.
E Hlanchard, A. F. Stover, and
Emilio Miranda.
BUYS TAILOR SHOP
Frank I'rathor, a new arrival
from Coy, Oklahoma, closed n ileal
last Friday in which he bus tuken
over the ownership of the Little
Qom Tai'or Shop from Ralph M
ik.n hould have preferred Jones. Mr I'ratherls anexporieno
HIIU i 11 ifll
M. lint tlift nlain tact 3 mat lie eu man in mo wit ui no- , iii-
....... i i . . i. l i...,. t .
did not sneak, that he could not sing ami repairing an K.nus o. togs
i . ...i. .-..I.H.1.....M. ...in ......
BUCH. .... . ., ..T....I il.. l.lt .,.., ,,
n it. a .iiiatico Hiiouiii ue cuosen imuo io hhuiií mo iw..
"w . . ... in. ... i., .i
leader in tho fight for a worthier cotnouaiion posstuie, as m mno
., . i i.i t...,. i i.l. rai UniliUd Ihn above mentioned
.I&I nns im. ill" wuuiu i nio w uno
flie torch that Colonel Rooievelt business, a full line t.f samples of
" . . . tr. I. ill. II-. .inllil.m mill llorrlll
I. on thin far borne. lie wouiui ianur uinuq nú i. " kM...w
w ' . . . . ... I 1,1 .11 .11 .
'have to accept an Issue that meant anu oruers mieu wnn u.t unpatcn
TALESUEN
Paul Mayi'i, Manuel (bunion, Pat
Stuart, Trinidad Upe, I). II Itutnpltrvy
PAPER PRICES STILL CLIMBING
Tho Outlook this week received
from the wholesale paper housts
unother notice about tho fourth
of a similar nature to come to hand
luring the last month which roads
something like this:
"Another advance in the price of
all kinds nf paper."
The wholesalo price nf all sorts
blank paper '9 S,ln15 skyward.
Nowb print paper has advance over
0 per cent., and tho most ordinary
bond paper commonly used for
typewriter letter paper, hasndvano
cd ovot 75 per cent, and the price
is still soaring. Just what tho out'
come will bo no one can foretell,
but there is one thing certain, if tho
prices go much higher, all Itiiids of
paper will bo held nt n premium in
n few more weeks und the tne nf
same fur ail purposed will be cur,
tailed to the minimum.
CHURCH ENTERTAINMENT
At the Methodist Church next
Friday evening, April 2Slh, there
will bi an entertnititnent of shadow
pictures and if you nuns it ynti
will miss something unique and
comic The best mimical talent in
town will aid in mtklnu this pro
gralít tlrst cías. The small sum of
ton cents will lulmli you regardless
of age. The proceeds will ba ap
plied on the church debt nnd the
Indies of the Bible class solicits
your patronage.
BUYS CARRIZOZO LIVERY
William Harnett made a deal witli
Chus. A. Slovens Tuesday of Ii:h
week nnd is now owner of the Carri
zozo Livery Stubla. Ho will con
tintio to opentto Ids feed store, coal
supply, and wnguii und feed yard
on El Faso Avenue. HU reputa
(Ion along these Hues Is tun well
.... II It. !... t
t'HliiDilsucd incaiiy ui nuuiii in ox-
tensive enmtnunl. Sufllce it la say
Hill Is out for business und Is ready
to lervo you ellicionlly.
Carriiozn Trading Uompauy Is in
El l'aau this week un business
Tito syndicate which has taken'
over the Willow Springs Coal prop,
erlira has big plans and ample nt
sources to put thum through to tho 1
smallest detail, Realizing tho pos
sibilities of this great deposit of
mineral coal Goo. C. Benedict, tho
new managing owner, and his as
sociates will completely modernizo
every feature of the mechanical oper
ation. The passages into the mine
will be enlarged, larger cars put in
operation, n new hoist and machin
ery for its manipulation. One fea
ture which tho fnrtnor ounor ha'
had to combat was tho lack n
houses to take cure nf the employe4
Accordingly tho erection nf five
dwelling houses will bo begun Ini-
mediately, nndmoro will doubtlen
be pruvidod as the increosed pro
duction of the mino calla for odiiK
tlonol operations
It is the intention nf the new
owners to npcroto tills valuablr
property to the tune of tine hundred
ton per day In the near fututn.
Just us soon as lhe new machinery
mnkrx this capacity possible- thinp
will be on tho gn as never before in
tho history nf this project.
It is declared that negotiation
will be entered into in duo time
with the E. V. V S. W. fur
the construction nf a spur, from
the present leading point on the
main line, up ta the mine property
anil that they havo the full inteu
tinn uf taking this important mat
ter into their own hands if the rail
road authorities are not Inclined
The natural rottta offers a course with
an easy grodient over comparatively
even ground, making tho problem
of constructing such a road an easy
one. Tho editor bus personally
viiltcil theprupcrty sinco its change
uf oMiershlp nnd lhe latent possibi
lities uf this wonderful vein nf coal
which the mining of timo past bus
not more than opened n passage
wny "it)0 feo 1 Into the mountainside
s hound to impress even rlie most
ttntuttiied as lhe 00 inch vein nf
solid coul, Hid valuable caking vari
oty, meets tho eyes. Boost and
wuti'h results.
MRS. CATHER ENTERTAINS
Mrs. Outlier entertained Saturday
afternoon at her hume at the I'eler'a
residence In Highland addition
Whist afforded the amusement uf
lhe afternoon after which a deli
clous two com hi) luncheon was
served,
Tuble dccnraliniiH appropriate uf
tho Easter tide were In evidence
and small Easter baskets made In
water coLrs were presented to each
uuest. A p'lifsuiit afternoon was
símil Thixe Invited wee: Mes
damns W C. McDouild, .1. F Kim
bell. W. II. Osburu, A. .1. Rothnd,
R, T. Mica, W li. (Jtiinin, Ueo .1
Dingwall, J. B. French und MIíhMII
d'cd Peters
TAKING CENSUS
Uudrrsheriff John B. Bílril U
Inking the census uf the propose,!'
corporate Umita uf the town nf
L'urrUor.o, Il is confidently ex
peci ml that tho required 1501 rem
letilri will be found with u uoodlj
margin to spare. The work nt
enumeration is being systematically
prosecuted and with this work suc
cessfully concluded, another tnili-
Htone Inward the gout nf incorporti
tinn will bo safely passed.
Andrew Duncan arrived Monday
from Murpliysborn. Illinois, and
will hpend a few months hero ylsU
iti(t his sister, Mrs. Thos. 0. iuslcr.
Y
1
.-1
