THE O Wdilo TIME
PAGES 1 TO 8
"OW.OSSO THE CITY OP PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. APEIL 21. 1916.
NO. 4
Would Pave South Washington.
Property owners on Washington
street from the bridge south to Gate
gsreet have generally signed a petition
asking the City Commission for a brick
pavement. Some of them who opposed
paving a year ago have joined a request
(or it this time. Part of the petitioners
at least will be satisfied to pave south
as far as Ridge street.
Elected Offioert.
Thft Man'a Bible class of the Coranna
Avenue H. E. Sunday school was pleas
. antly entertained at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Ollle Noonan, Glen wood ave
nue, Friday event Dg. A business ses
sion was held and the following officers
were elected:
President Harry Kline.
. Vice President W. E. Way.
Secretary William Hunt.
Treasurer John Good.
A lunch was served and a program of
music was enjoyed.
Co. H Men Courtmartialed.
Nine members of Company H were
courtmartialed Tuesday evening at
the order of Captain J. 6. Parker.
All were found guilty of the charges
preferred against them. Six were let
off with light punishment but three,
Oshel Harris, Michael Parks and Ed
ward Wymer were ordered dropped
from the rolls, and denied all privil
eges of the armory but will be re-entered
on the rolls later for camp or
other duty. They will also be refer
red to a regimental court martial
with a recommendation of a dishon
orable discharge from the service.
Mrs. Potter Sues Coleman.
A sequal to the developments follow
ing the death of William Potter, the
laboring man who died in Owosso last
summer of strychnine poisoning, is a
suit brought in Justice McBride's court
in Corunna by his widow, Mrs. Hattie
against Charles Coleman, who is em
ployed in the Woodard Furniture fac
tory in Owosso. Mrs. Potter, who is
now working in Detroit, brought the
action to collect $50 which she alleges
Coleman owes her for board.
The indebtedness is said to have been
vuuMwveu nunc vuieiuau was oiajr ilik
at the Potter home, before his death.
Retailers Elect Officers.
At the meeting of the retailers
this week, the following officers were
p1ortp1 for thft on an In ir voai"
President -H. H. Dignan.
Vice President L. H; Thompson.
Treasurer W. E. Dullard.
Secretary W. A. Seegmiller.
Executive Committee W. E. Hall,
C. A. Lawrence, It. L. Chase, W. B.
Camburn and A. E. Osmer.
The subject of the repeal of all ex
emptlon laws as proposed was dis
cussed and an announcement made
that the state secretary of the retail
merchants' association would be here
for the meeting In May, to address
the retailers on this and other sub
jects that are of vital importance to
our business men.
Republioan Convention.
The republican county convention to
elect delegates to the state and district
conventions which elect delegates to
the national convention, wus held in
Corunna, Tuesday, with every town
ship and ward in the County repre-
oon Kv snfhnataaf tn artA Anflmtatlo
members of the grand old party.
J. H. Collins called tbe convention to
order and made a brief, and stirring
talk before calling Hon. John Y. Mar
tin to preside. Mr. Martin was warmly
welcomed and he made a pleasant talk
on republican opportunities and duties.
A.' L. Nichols was chosen secretary.
A committee on credentials of G. F.
Friegel, Chas, Gas-man an M. Ransom,
a committee on permanent organiza
tion and order of business of H. W.
Parker, A. B. Freeman and ' Wm. Ren
wick were appointed, and after a short
recess made reports.
The selection of delegates resulted as
follows:
State convention J. H. Collins, Neil
R. Walsh, Fred West, George T. Camp
bell, George W. Cook, Charles E. God
frey, Herbert E. Austin, Charles W.
Wilcox, William Renwick, S. C. Patch
ell. Joseph Sproule, James Leeiett.
Leon F. Miner, Otto L. Sprague, E. R.
Vincent, John W. North wood, Seth Q.
Pnlver, IraG. Curry, B. H. Kingsbury
and Vernon Lehman.
. District convention deth Q. Pnlver,
Matthew Bush, D. M. Trumble, Chas.
W. Gassmau, H. W. Parker, C. J.
Thomas. H. P. Halstead, Myron Peter
eon, J H. Collins, II. H. Pulver, John
V. Martin M P. TlAnanm J. A. TWU
William Cook, A. H. Dumond, E. O.
Dewey, G. F. Friegel, A. M. Hume, J.
W. Bittell and George M. Dewey.
S. Q Pulver spoke of tbe Republican
banquet urging all to attend, promising
a program both pleasing and inspiring.
Generous Response for Armory Fur
nishing Fund.
At the Tuesday luncheon of the Im
arovement Association considerable dis
cussion was had regarding plans for
furnishing the new State armory, that
most favoted being for the necessary
articles to be purchased on the credit
of Co. H with the Improvement Asso
ciation to become responsible for the
payment of bills incurred within a year.
This meant that Company H boys would
go into the new armory with a large
debt hanging over them and that all
funds accruing as the profit of enter
tainments of various kinds would be
mortgaged to meet these bills. This
plan did not meet with the approval of
Arthur Ward as it seemed to him that
the citizens of Owosso, if the question
was laid before them, would cheerfully
contribute the money to purchase the
furnishings immediately required. Mr.
Ward consulted with Captain Parker
and the Armory committee and then
decided that prompt action would pro
duce results. The sequel proves Mr.
Ward right, as on Wednesday morning
with the aid of Mayor DeYoung and
Secretary Seegmiller he began a can
vass for funds and at noon on Thursday
twelve one hundred dollar subscriptions
had been secured from the business men
and manufacturing concerns of the city
with a prospect of at least fiye more
today. Before the work Is completed
the gentlemen expect to turn over at
least $3,000, which will be expended by
the joint action of the donors and the
Armory board of control. The success
of the committee thus far proves the
generosity of Owosso citizens and the
appreciation of tbe magnificent armory.
Is it amiss to wonder if all the citi
zens will unite in making it possible to
procure the land adjoining the armory
for park purposes?
E. L. MASON A SUICIDE
Former School Superintendent and
Vice President of Fox & Mason
Co. at Corunna Victim
of Despondency.
Edward L. Mason, aged 46 years,
committed suicide at his home in Law
rence, Kansas, last week, by taking
cyanide of potassium, his act being
attributed to despondency.
Mr. Mason had lived in Kansas for
three years where he was representing
a life insurance company, following his
departure from Corunna after the fail
ure of Fox & Mason Furniture Co., of
which he was vice president. He had
previously been superintendent of Cor
unna schools, following principalships
at Charlotte, Mich , and Colorado
Springs, Colo., and was regarded a fine
educator.
He became Involved in questionable
transactions in connection with the
much tangled affairs of tbe Fox &
Mason Co. and was brought to Michi
gan on a charge of having misrepre
sented the financial condition of the
company in securing a loan. After
several adjournments of the hearing
the case was dropped, as was a similar
one In Saginaw county.
Mr. Mason was born in this county
and educated in the Corunna high
school and the University of Michigan.
He was married to Miss Kate Sagen
dorph of Charlotte, who with two sons,
Edward, a student at the University of
Kansas, and Warren a student in the
Lawrence high school, survive.
Declamation and Oratorical Contest.
In the annnal district declamation
and oratorical contests held at St.
Johns, Friday, 11 high schools were
represented. Owosso was represented
by Frederick Hanks in declamation and
Cecil McLean in oratory. Excellent
speaking was done by all the contest
ants, and that the contest was close
in both oratory and declamation, was
shown by the inability of tbe judges to
come to a unanimous decision. St.
Johns took first place in both branches
of speaking. Cecil McLean of Owosso,
took third place in oratory. .
Corunna Commandery.
Corunna Commanders No. 21, Knights
Templar, held its annnal election of
officers April 13 resulting as follows:
Eminent Commander Vernon M.
Royce.
Generalissimo Clark Shipman.
Captain General Byron P nicks.
Senior Warden Harry A. Tbomar..
Junior Warden Claude B. Perry.
Prelate Howard E. Slocum.
Recorder Frank H. Pettlbone.
Treasurer John Y. Martin.
Standard Bearer Wm. T. Goodwill.
Sword Bearer Wru. A. McMullen.
Warder Earl Ferguson.
Sentinel Jefferson D. Leland.
Past Eminent Commander Matthew
Bah conferred tbe Order of Malta on
a class of seven.
THOUSANDS OF VISITORS
New Home of Citizens' Savings Bank
Admired by Throngs.
The opening of the new home of the
Citizens' Savings Bank was a most suc
cessful and happy occasion, Saturday,
when many thousands of visitors from
all over the countv and several from
outside, called and inspected the beau
tiful quarters, congratulated the officers
and directors, enjoyed the music and
departed with a flower.
The bank is most complete in every
respect, with plenty of room for all de
partments, rest rooms, consultation
and phone rooms, toilets, two large
vaults, one being for safety deposit
boxes, and a large directors' room. The
bank is finished in marble and mahog
any, and with beautiful lighting fix
tures is harmonious and beautiful.
Among the visitors during the day
were the founder of the .bank, . H.
Keeler of Grand Rapids. A. T. Slaght
a former director, also of Grand Rap
ids, and W. J. Gray, vice president of
the Old Detroit National Bank. Re
membrances of flowers were sent by
the other Owosso banks, and banks in
Grand Rapids and Detroit.
New money was paid out during the
day and the receipts included a $10,000
deposit by the state, a $15,000 deposit
by an individual.
COMMUNITY BUILDING.
Publio Meeting to be Addressed on
Subjeot by Popular Lecturer.
The Chautauqua committee of the
Owosso Improvement association has
arranged for a public mass meeting
to be held at the library building at
7:30 Monday evening, April 24th. V.
C. Coleman, general superintendent
of the Coit-Alber Chautauqua Com
pany of Cleveland, O., will deliver an
interesting lecture on "Community
Building," and will tell of the splen
did benefits that have resulted in oth
er communities from the Chautauqua
work, and will outline plans for the
Chautauqua program to be held in
this city July 9 to 15.
,Mr. Coleman has won much fame
as a popular lecturer, and will bring
a message intended to enthuse all
that are interested in the subject of
community uplift and betterment.
The program of the evening will
also Include musical selections to be
furnished by some of our best local
talent.
All persons interested in commun
ity building and general civic Im
provement should be sure to attend
this meeting.
Clrouit Court Calendar.
Corunna, April 18. County Clerk
Nichols has completed the calendar
for the May term of the circuit court
and sent it to the printer. The cal
endar is made unusually large by the
number of Perry fire cases that are
included in it. There are also many
divorce cases.
The calendar shows eight criminal
oases to be tried during the term.
Five are for violation of the local op
tion law, two for violation of the
pure food act and one for wife de
sertion. There are fifty-five jury cases, a
great many of which are Perry fire
cases. The chancery cases total fifty-six,
of which forty-one are divorce
cases. Three jury and six chancery
cases are placed on the calendar un
der the judicature act, no progress
having been made In them for one
year.
Following Is a list of the cases:
Criminal.
People vs. Hattie Corcoran, as
sault and battery; People vs. Homer
B. Atwood, appeal; People vs. Wm.
Howd, violation of local option law;
People vs. George Serr, violation of
(Continued on page S)
NEW RURALMAIL BOXES TO BE
USED.
The department has designated two
sizes of mail boxes for use on rural'
and star routes after July 1, 1910.
A small size (No. 1) for letters and
ordinary mail.
A large size (No. 2) for all mail, in
cluding parcel post.
Patrons mny use either size and
will not be required to discard boxes
in use July 1 while they remain ser
viceable, but nil boxes erected after
that date must be pf the new type.
Standard boxes as designed are not
patentable and there will be no re
strictions upon the right to manufac
ture and sell them, after approval, in
'accordance with postal laws and regu
lations. ,
A list of manufacturers of npproved
boxes, with prices, will be published in
t Tie official postal guide and daily
bulletin.
Manufacturers may obtain Rpecifi
rn'tions for these, boxes by addressing
the Fourth Assistant Postmaster Gen
eral, Division nf Equipment and Sup-
t plies.
SENATE TO ACCEPT
HOUSE BILL
Democretlo Senators Dare Not Ac
cept Fordnsy's Challenge.
Washington, April 20. As a result
of interchange between senate and
house leaders the senate will recede
from its position in favor of limited
repeal of the free sugar clause in the
Underwood tariff law and will accept
the absolute repeal bill as passed by the
house of representatives.
Congressman Fordney, of Michigan, j
proved the deciding factor. Chairman
Simmons, of tbe senate finance com
mittee, sent word to Chairman Kitchln,
of the ways and means committee, in
charge of the bill in the house, that it
was a case of tbe house concurring in
tbe senate amendment limiting the
repeal until 1920 or else fret trade.
When Congressman Pordney heard of
it he declared: "All right, let it be
free trade and see what the Democrats
will do without the revenue?"
Mn Fordney's dictum got back to
Senator Simmons quickly. By a two
to one vote, the senate Democrats in
caucus voted to accept the house bill
and at 5 o'clock Saturday tbe final
action will be taken which will repeal
absolutely the free sugar clause in the
tariff jaw.
The house bill provides for the abso
lute repeal of the 'free sugar clause.
The senate bill provided for the ex
tension of the existing duty of one
cent a pound until 1920. In the absence
of any action to the contrary, sugar
under, the Underwood-Simmons law,
would go on the free list automatically
May 1.
m m
Clean Up Day My 10.
The State Fire Marsl al has issued a
statement and designated May 10 as
"Clean Up" day. This day Is just what
the name indicates, but the fire marshal-rjakes
many suggestions as to
things that would be easily overlooked.
To the People of Michigan:
Each spring we enjoy a "CLEAN
UP DAY" in our state. A day which
is designated by the state fire mar
shal as one which the people of Mich
igan shall devote to the cleaning
up of their premises.
Last year the people of our state
entered Into the spirit of the occasion
with fine zest. This spring May 10
has been selected as clean-up day by
the state fire marshal and he has ev
ery reason to believe that citizens
and officials will extend the same co
operation that they did a year ago.
Let's make this a big day.
First, we will get busy with the
winter accumulation of rubbish and
collect and destroy it.
You say "WHY?"
Because statistics show that one
third of the deaths of persons under
forty years of age are caused by dis
eases contracted from filth.
Because a pile of rubbish encour
ages a conflagration.
Secondly, we will lock around the
house, the barn and the store.
Perhaps we will find a winter's
supply of old newspapers or maga
zines, maybe we will discover that
our wiring needs" attention, there Is
a chance that our method of storing
gasoline or kerosene demands cor
rection, probably we will discover
that nnr fiirnne n efnva nlnoo nr. A
chimneys need cleaning or repairing!
to be made safe.
Then we will turn our attention to
the exterior of our buildings.
A bad roof or dilapidated building
Is a menace to all adjoining property.
The clean up day should be made a
repair or tear down day also. This
will be Just. the time to investigate
our school house or public halls. Are
they equipped with fire escapes, and
are they safe?
We can all help make clean up day
count for something.
Mr. Public Official von can heln hv'
calling attention to the day, by boost-! Byron 5 Drt a-p- Halstead. Perry; C.
Ing it and giving It your official sup-O. Robinson, Morrlce; C. E Godfrey,
port. Bancroft; Elmer Hlbbard, Bennington;
School Teacher, your can help by , V, W. Lehman, Shaftsburg; L. W.
asking your pupils to participate in Scrlbner, Antrim; Geo. W. Haffner,
the fire prevention spirit of the day.jLennon; E. E. Derham. Corunna; at
Fire Chief, you can lead In the 'the stores of O. L. Sprague, W. D.
preparations ior me day with your
advice and encouragement.
Housewife, you know how to clean
house and you can be of great value
in the campaign.
Every citizen and householder can
enlist both In the planning for the
dav and the execution of the plans.
Every cltlzent who is Interested In
beautifying our state. In the preser
vation of health and In the reduction
of the fire waste by fire prevention If
requested to set aside May 10 as a
"Clean up day" and to assist In mak
ing It a success.
John T. WInshlp.
Ex-Offlclo State Fire Marshall.
J. II, Brandel was called to Shep
herd Thursday by the death of his
brother. Otorge TJrandel, who passed
away early Thursday morning.
Absolutely Pure
No Alum No Phosphate
REPUBLICAN BANQUET.
, Excellent Speakers Secured -Many
Prominent Michigan Men Will
Bs Present District Con
vention in Afternoon.
Friday, April 23th, promises to be a
field day for the Republicans of Shia
wassee County, the main event of
which will be the Republican Club
banquet in the evening in the new
armory, with the district convention
called to elect two delegates and two
alternates to the national convention at
Chicago, and tbe annual meeting of
the Republican Editorial Association
of Michigan as extra afternoon attrac
tions. The list of speakers at the
banquet will include Senator Wm.Alden
Smith, Congressmen Fordney, Phillip
P. Campbell of Kansas, and Judge W.
P. Martin of Louisiana. Congressman
Campbell has been a member of the
house since 1890 and is recognized as
one of the strong members of that body.
Congressman Martin is one of tbe new
members, a strong protectionist from a
southern Democratic state.
Both men are good speakers and the
Republicans of Shiawassee county will
give them a warm welcome to Michigan.
Sen. Smith and Congressmen Fordney
are so well known that it is needless to
say a single word for them. Sen.
Smith's address will be extemporaneous,
dealing with the present day affairs,
world-wide. Cong. Fordney will discuss
"Industrial Preparedness?''
The toastmaster is to be Hon. P. T.
Colgrove of Hastings, one of the elo
quent sons of Michigan, who will have
something to say which will well be
worth while listening to. President S.
Q. Pulver will deliver the address of
welcome. The program will include
appropriate music.
The committee on invitations has
asked tbe several Republican candi
dates for the gubernatorial nomination,
attorney general, state treasurer, judge
supreme court and other places on the
state ticket to be the guests of the
Club during the afternoon and evening.
Acceptances have been received from
Hon. G. J. Diekema, Hon. Washington
Gardner, Secretary of State C. C.
Vanghan, Auditor General O. B. Fuller
and Hon. Saml. Odell. the latter a
candidate for state treasurer. It is
believed tbat all of tbe aspirants for
governor will be present and after the
completion of the regular program the
toastmaster will probably give these
gentlemen an opportunity to at least
make a bow to the assemblage. Tbe
district convention will bring dele
gations from Montcalm, Ionia, Clinton
Grat?ot and counties and a
number of the delegates have already
signified their intention of remaining
for the banquet.
Tickets have been placed on sale in
the several township and can be pro
cured at 1 each from Geo. Zintell,
New Lothrop; J. W. Bittell, New Hav
en; C. W. Gassman, Rnsb;IC. A. Croel,
Carland; E. R. Vincent, Middlebury;
O. F. Harry man, Owosso Twp; L. G
Cudney, Caledonia; H. L. Austin,
Laingsburg; A. B. Freemau, Durand;
W. R Dean, Vernon; J, Frank Barnes.
Whitehead, M. F. Growe, Times office,
OWOSSO. iii
Baptst Brotherhood.
At a meeting of the Baptist Men's
Brotherhood Tuesday evening the
following officers were elected:
President Frank E. Sutfln.
Vice President Frank N'orris.
Secretary E. J. Lockwood.
Treasurer KarJ Place.
The talent for next season's enter
tainment course was discussed by the
brotherhood and the following attrac
tions agreed upon:
Rounds' Ladies orchestra.
Royal Male Quartet.
Stockholm Music Company.
Lecture to bo announced later.
The Potters In Song and Story..
Ye Old Colonial Choir.
MICHIGAN AND THE PRESI
DENCY. Reviewing the Republican County
conventions which were held through
out Michigan yesterday, the trend
toward Justice Charles E. Hughes as
the desired candidate for President
is unmistakable. The great County of
Wayne, by far the greatest vote pro
ducer in the state, openly declared for
him. The County of Ingham, which
includes the Capital of the state, open
ly declared for him. In other Coun
ties, the resolutions which leave dele
gates "uninstrueted" are in reality
quite generally the equivalent to
Hughes' instructions. In a majority
of cases, these instructions would
probably have openly been Hughes
instructions if Judge Hughes were an
avowed candidate. It is difficult to
put any other interpretation upon tho
Michigan situation as it exists today.
The Wayne and Ingham conventions
"spoke right out in meeting" which
is commendable frankness. Bearing
in mind, also, the result of the poll in
Michigan taken last week by The Chi
cago Tribune a poll which showed
Hughes in the lead by a comfortable
margin it is no stretch of the imagi
nation to hear Michigan substantially
responding for Hughes when the rolls
are called at Chicago. We do not be
lieve that the Justice will do or say
anything which will make such a vote
impossible; nor do we, believe that he
has a right to withdraw himself from
the presidential draft. With some
few exceptions, those who deny this
view are dissemblers who care much
loss about Judge Hughes and the Su
preme Court than they do about sav
ing the national Democracy from de
feat at the November polls.
Next to the dominancy of the
Hughes sentiment the most pronounc
ed political phenomenon in Michigan
right now is the returning strength of
the Roosevelt movement. One very
substantial Grand Rapids Republican
wrote the Colonel last week as fol
lows: "Four years ago you were my
last choice for President; this year
you are my only choice." If Mr.
Roosevelt had fought his fight of four
years ago without going outside his
own party, he would be nominated
next June at Chicago by acclamation.
This is patent on the face of tinners
today. Many of the men who fought
him with keenest bitterness four years
ago are ready to acquiesce in his Re
publican nomination this year. In
his nationalism, Theodore Roosevelt is
incomparably the greatest living
American. No one need be surprised
if the exigences of the times shall pro
duce him as the Chicago convention's
nominee. But the greatest Republican
hope for 191 G and Republican hope
is national hope lies in the probabil
ity that if Judge Hughes be nomi
nated, he will have the undivided sup
port of Mr. Roosevelt, who, The Her
ald confidently believes, would go
through the United States like a
sword of flame in furtherance of the
Hughes candidacy. Roosevelt oppos
ed Blaine in the convention of 1884,
but lie did not refuse to support him
at the polls. It was "the larger
good," he said, that influenced his de
cision then. The same influence will
be decisive this year with the Colonel.
Indoor Ball Season Closed
Tbe last game of the indoor bane ball
schedule for 1915-16 was played Friday,
the Stove Co. bors defeating the Masons
7 to 5 in a good game. The season has
been profitable to tbe teams a well as
to Colfax Odd Fellow lodgethe total
admissions were 10,180, receipts being
11527, the leagues' share being fOlObO
and the lodge 9i6 20. The league baa
MOO left after paving expenses and this
is to be divided among the six team,
about 70 men.
J. Edwin Ellis of the Stove Company,
entertained the company team. Friday,
at a lunch and smoker at tho Connor
cafe.
Do you know that you can have your
pbotograpn taken Saturday evenings at
the Daffey Studio? All work is guar
anteed. Adv
