Service for You
Let T-D Information Bureau
Answer Your Questions
Kirtnnonft CuneS-pispatrii
G6th YEAR
VOIiU.UK (Ml
m miii;i( :t<i
KICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER (i, 191(5.?TWELVE PACES.
Sr ?CLEAR
Pi-ICE, TWO CENTS
ASQUITH RESIGNS
AND PREMIERSHIP.
IS OFFERED TO LAW
t
Head of British Ciovern
ment Quits After Day of
Political Excitement.
RESIGNATION PROMPTLY
ACCEPTED BY KING GEORGE
Forced to Step Down and Out by
Insuperable Obstacles to
Program.
<.i:\i;ri.\l klkctionk hoskiiili-:
KIiouM Lhw llpcliiip to St'rvt' Honor
Will (io to Lloyd
(?eor^e.
' Mv A-wiaimI I
1.''NDON, in,-ember .Y M--rli.it II.
Arinlth to-night r' signed the Itritlsh!
1 premiership. v#hieh |,e had h> l<l thrrujK!.
'IKht s. tor my years ?? f domestic i
foreign history, ami tli? government
i rlsis round a solution which had been
eonsidered t h? least probable <?( t>ra> -
tical alternatives. The Unionist lead
' Aiidrew I Sonar Law. was s >i mtnoned
to tlii- place immediatci after Mr.
Asquitii had depat ted. ami the Kinp
"ffcrod him il." Prime Miulstei com
mission. which li- had just iilti ptcd
front Mr. As<|uith's liailds.
No annotim fluent rc^ardum l'.or.:ir
I'flH s has yl been made. and
there arc ?uine doubts whether h? will
l ccc pt tin* heavy i e.sponsibilil\. If iie
ilccllnifs, it I" considered certain th
1 oner will fall to I ?.i \ <1 Lloyd
The con t iiui.tt i',n if the <<-u 1 i 11 ? > ?.
I'uhinct uiili Mime changes, ami tli ?
speeding ?.iJ# of I i,.? wal ?iinii.ii.-i n. -iit
v ill Im- tin* policy I Hll> < I II!
\th>\ nnir,.x
i:\llTI\c; |?\\
Tin I'r'ini'-r s decision to resign and
advtse ilu King t" summon Andrew
Hoiiar I .a w to form a i.'ulniiel w.?s
taken afi r a day of extraordinary
comings and Koines of 111? political
leaders lu twi -il Howning Street and
the various gov? rnment d< partiiients
Mr. Ati'.|uit)i m?-l mi'm ul t'nloiiist h-ud
ers iii consultation. including Marl
? 'tirzon. Lord Itulurt il ami tin Karl
of l>erby.
Xottceable iiliiiMitei'ii from l hi." con
ferem- were A. J Halfour. who if ill:
Andrew Honar Law. .1. Austin Cham
berlain and W'iiItoi Iiniiu* Loni
l.ai'r in the afternoon tin Premier
met l.ls supporter?!. including Visi mint
?Irey, I.owis Harcourt. Kdwin S Mon
tagu. thr Marquis of I'ruv., H'trinahl
M'Konna. Walter Kuncima n, l.onl
liiiiKniaHiT. II Suintji 1. 1 .<.r? 1 pending
and Arthur Henderson Tin niei tint;
lasted for more than an hour, and it
is supposed that Mr. AHquith explained
that he was faced by almost insup- r
able oliftrti li s to the reconciliation ..f
the conflicting interest*, and intend-d
to tender his resignation. Almost im
mediately the Premier <1 rove to the ?
palace ami had an audience with the
Kfng.
It now is reniaili-il that when Mr
A.sqiiith was asked in th? House of;
Commons yesterday if a food dictator
had hen appointed, he replied sharply:
"I don't like a dictator."
>11 ? II TAI.lv IS 111". A It I)
?>??' i.i:\Kit \i. i;i,i-;c tion
There is much talk to-night of tin
possibilities of a general election.
Bnnar I/iiw would first form n Cabinet,
if he takes office, ns it i? necessary
that the government be carried on.
and then appeal to the ejectors fur a
ratification of his administration.
There is strong opposition, however,
to any political campaign which must
necessarily divert the country's ener- |
tries from the wai while it lasted, and
the new government may decide t? ? g>.
ahead w ith the approval of the House!
of Commons fitly and n'?t of the voters. ;
DAVID Mittvi) <.koim;k iias
nt I i:\IJS IN HOT!! CAMPS
The part Oavid l.loyd lieorc- is
playing in the crisis was demonstrated
plainly to-day by the fact that he
remained in his ollice while the Premier
conferred separately with the Kiheral
and Conservative members of the Cabi
net. l,loyi| tieorge's policy had sup
.porters in both camps. His stronges?
I/iheral friend, I .or<l Heading, carried
messages between the Premier's conn- |
cils and Lloyd tieorge's desk. It was j
significant to onlookers also that
Honar Law refrained from attending
the Conservatives' meeting with Mr. j
Asqulth, and Lord Curzon hastened to i
report to him at the Colonial i mice im
mediately the conference was ended. I
Mr. Asf|ttith's retirement has taken'
politicians by surprise. The possibility !
that he will remain in the Cabinet v\ i11< ;
Honar Law. taking the post of Lord
High Chancellor, is discussed.
Herbert Samuels's promotion from the ;
Home secretaryship to Reginald M?
Kenna's position at the Treasury also
is predicted, while acceptance of the I
resignations of Visrotin! ({rev and A !
.1. Halfour. which some of Hi - papers'
backing Lloyd (Seorge are demanding,
is less likely under Honar l.aw's re- !
giiue than if Lloyd Heorge came into :
power.
The Labor party will hold a more J
important pa -t in any new Cabinet.
The more sensational London papers
hn\r enjoyed three or four days of
almost frenzied excitement witli de
mands and denunciations, often in lan
guage stronger than any in the mem
ory of the present generation. The
crucial events !n Uottn-nnia and (!recce
have been given a secondary place ex
cept as they were used as a basis fin
al tacks oil the ministers.
"The strong man wins" was the pos
iContinned on Four?h Page7)
XMAH AT nROWNSVIf.l.R. TF.XAS.
?.l7v 40cr^iun'.Jrln V,|H "OUTIIEHN HAIL
WAV. Splendid service.
He Quits Leadership
of British Cabinet
I'll i:>l licit ASCillTII.
PUBLISHERS IITEIL
TO CONGRESS FOR I
Want Investigation of Kxoriiitant
I'rices of Newsprint Paper in
Restraint of Trade*.
I'T.MOST l-:r<>XOMV MIKDIII)
I'ress \sM>ciation I.Members to
t';il tin iter Copies to Advertisers,
! xcliaiiges, and to I (educe Size of
Paper as l-'ar as Possible.
:?riiative plans f..; 11 ? ? .'unMivitUon
"f tie\\ Jll illl |. ({.<??? v-jj.pl-. .,f
\ r-gitii.i .iiitl .North 1 "ar?>lin;i: sugg.s
n.its t'..| t! i < ? fitis> r\at:on <.f paper
>! ??() f..* wrapping pur?.?.?? .? n m, i
- iK'Uf." ii ?li- two .Stales, ami
1starting >.f a nation-wide mm . -
M-nt t" iirnig I Ik* priii t-pa p.*r problem
t efor. < *ongr< ?.? in a fordhlo manner.
u'iithe work accomplished yesterday
afti rniHiii at a Jyint -unfertile'* of iht
? x? ? u11v. < ommit t< ? of tli?* Virginia
I Association and a eoir.mittee
representing th?- .North Carol na Pr- ss
A - soi ia t Kilt
!? T tt'.iiy, of ill. ?:old l.eaf, ||*-n
il?rMii. and .1 1. Ilorio. .It., of the
I < l?-g ra m. IIoi'k.v Moii nt. represented
tlo .North i':i roll mi Press Association,
and pledged tin- support of that or
u in/.u on as w. II a? ..f the North ,
' ai ',u. i \.-.-oc;ation of A fIernoon
N.-w -p'H" i to the plans adopted by
? to 'V- "t fom mitt. e of ili< Vir
g nia l*r- s- Association for conserva
tion and redress The .North Carolina
publishers explained in detail tin- seri
ousness of tin- shortage . f print paper i
i'i thai Stati- and the inability t-. r< -
new ..ill, or mal><- n.-\c, , n:tra.-ts. while
Major All. :i 1'ottv. of K t.-li in > nd: I. 1'..
I'ugh. of N.-a p..n X.ws; lior. r A.!
.lames. of I >ain 111 ? ?. and i.th. i s from !
Virginia told of t!,?? situation which i
on fronts the Virginia pul.l >h?;rs. j
whi.-h at present is not ijnite as morions '
as tin North ''arolina situation. llow
f'.'i i, intervening months may pla.-?
Virginia editors in the same predica
inen i.
I :\I II STtTI-: ASK I II)
TO sV.\ I? t)i;i,i;(i A i'io\
Secretary .fames I,. Hart, of tlte Vir
ginia Press Association, was authorized !
to ask tli. secr.-tary of the press as- -
?sociation in each State in the Cnited '
Slat. ;- t.. send a d. legation to appear
1" for. the KederaI Trail*, i '..tuniisshin
ill WashlliKtuii on I ?ecem her 1L'. at j
which time tlo print-paper prohlem I
will l?e con** into. Tin* Virginia 11 r\ss
Association also passed a resolution
urging every member of every* press
association in the United States to!
wire and write their representatives in
i 'ongress to take such action as will
briim relief to the publishers, who
openly confess they face a monopoly of i
gigantic proportions.
The following |ett?-r was addressed !
to Virginia publishers last night by j
the executive committee of the Vir
ginia Press Association:
"Such a crisis confronts the weekly
and daily publications of Virginia on
account of exorbitant prices of white
print paper and the threatened ad
vance. that the otliccrs of the Virginia
Press Association feel that your urgent
attention should be called to the per
sonal danger which confronts you.
"I'aper which sold a year ago at j
$*.'. !0 per 100 pounds is now selling at '
from it) to $10 per 100 pounds, and
there is no promise, of any decline in
prices, hut a greater probability of in
crease, and perhaps an inability to pro- j
vide paper at any price.
riuii*: Kt iixom \\i>
Al?l'l-:\l. I-'OIC ItKIJItlCSX
"Your executive committee nnd of
ficers strongly urge the following ac
tion by the papers of Virginia:
"First ICconomy.
"Second?An appeal to '.'ongress for
redress.
"By economy is meant the cutting
off of free copies to advertiser:*, ex
changes and non paying subscribers
and reduction of size of papers as far
as possible; cutting all dead-head ad
vertisements and free notices and fea
tures which can be eliminated with
out injury to your publication. This
is advocated so that the' consumption
of white print paper will lie reduced
nnd there will he left on the makers'
hands a surplus, which should reduce
the cost to the consumer.
"Kdltorlally tell your readers how
the paper makers have arbitrarily ad
vaneed the price of print paper, na.
(Continued on Second Page.)
EGGS AND TURKEYS
ARE UNDER BOYCOn
Housewives' League Declares
Against Purchase of These Ar
ticles for Two Weeks.
HOLD M^SS-MEETING TO-DAY
i " i
Women of City Declare War on
High Cost of Living and Cold
Storage Methods.
!? allowing tii'* action lak'M in ntlier
large cities (.f i|io countrv t? > reduce
tin- cost <.f living, boycotts against
til'* Illlr' ilftSO of tl|rU?y.N ;t tl<] f ujjtf Were
fl??*?? l?# i ed yes t?-rda y iiflerno'in at >i
spe.-jaI iii'-ctlns of t>?r. executive com
?i? lit <.f t )??> Richmond Hous-wi ves'
'?''HP uc I I??* boycotts are iilisffliit'1,
start inir to-morrow ninniinc. and nr'
t<? remain in for.-e f..r a period of two
weeks. expiring only t li r?-? days be
fore < 'hristnias. This action will be
laiil before tin in;i.5s-nn et ing this af
ternoon. ;in<l every Imusi-u-if'- and con
sumer in Hi. hiuond will hp pledged not
to use the <-otnino<li ties for this period.
.-e \ <? ia ! h >j n'I r< <i u'niDrit, r^iircs^ntii)^
every woman's organization in the
city. from various civic and
labor bodies and a delegation of busi
ness moil ar? <x|io ted to attend tho
iniisR-mcHing to be hold this afternoon
at t o'clock in the hail of the House
of iMlojratfs at the State "'apitol
Building. The inf?iin? will be held
under the au-pi. ..f the Richmond
Housewives l.'?(;ue, which has ex
tended invitations to numerous organi
zations a rid various city officials to bo
present.
Mrs. Whitehead, of Norfolk, presi
dent of ill- Housewives' I.?.-ague of
that city. and State chairman of the
Housewives- League of Virginia, mid
members of the executive committee
yesterday afternoon that th" proper
?ourse to h. pursued was the declara
tion of boycotts. This action, ."-lie said,
could then be laid before 11> o mass*
meeting. and th? consumers pledged t<>
it" support The .-?.in in itt??e adopted
h'-r flcoinnn ndations.
>'i'Oit.\(.?; ??:?.<,s uiotki)
\t 41 i km's, \> iiui.i:sam:
Kggs were quoted yesterday after
noon in I'ary Street at 4 1 cents per
dozen for the storage supply at whole
sale, while th? retail dealers were ask
ing j to 7 cents above this figure.
Turkeys were, selling at wholesale
for from ^ 1 to L'5 cents per pound.
a itli \ a rying quotations from several
houses, t!. (?. Currle & <.'o.'s prices
ranged from :!l to 'J? cents. whil* I?. W.
lOvans <-n. listed the fowl at 2.~. to
'J5 cents per pound.
The executive committee of the
Housewives' League issued a call last
night to every . onsuiiier in Richmond
w"? interested in the advancing
pri.es of foodstuffs to attend the mass
meeting this afternoon. Officers of the
league said that the matter had been
brought to the attention of numerous
business men. and that they were
.heartily in favor of tin- proposed plan.
A delegation of business men is ex
pect.<i to attend the meeting.
Boycotts against various commodi
ties have become general throughout
the country during the past few days,
and drastic steps are being taken in
an eftort to break the backbone of the
high markets. The movement is said
to have been a great success in New
Vork and Chicago, as well as Boston,
wii.le similar action is being considered
in Baltimore. Attention is being given
to the .-old -storage systems, and In
N< w York a rule has just been pro
mulgated by the commissioner of mar
kets forcing the storage plants to
stamp on each egg the date on which
it is received for storage.
This: action prevents cold-storage
oggs from being sold on the market as
th" fresh product, and while there was
great opposition to the measure, it is
being rigidly enforced.
Tl MIII.K IN 1*1* 11'K.N H\s
POI.I.OWI01) IIMVCOTTS I0L.SKW IIlOlt 10
liofinite action against the use of
other commodities whose retail prices
are ss.id to h< out of all reason is ex
pected to bo taken by the Housewives'
League, in keeping with similar action
that has been undertaken In a number
of the larger cities of the country.
Wherever boycotts have been declared
by the consumers the prices of com
ill odi t i es have been reduced tem
porarily. a tid thosje responsible for
these drastic steps assert that their
object has been accomplished.
Mrs. Whitehead will preside at th.
meeting this afternoon, and will out-I
lino the campaign that is being con- 1
ducted in Norfolk to force downward ?
the prevaLing high prices for various
Commodities. Boycotts by the Norfolk
organization scvera. days before
Thanksgiving resulted in a substantial
reduction in the quotations of turkeys'
and r*ggs. and th" campaign is said
to have been entirely successful. That
organization is now contemplating tak
ing like action against other food
stuffs.
There will be a general discussion
nf the high prices at the mass-meeting
'his nfIertioon. and the many factors
that arc said to be the direct cause of
the situation will be thoroughly con
sidered. A number oT prominent men
"id women of the city have been in
vited to speak, among c.iem Benjamin ?
I'? I'urcell, Strife Dairy and Food t'.'om
i*iIssioner. who attended the meeting j
?f the executive coriniit tee of the
league when it wns decided to call the'
mass-meeting.
MA* ASK OKKHIAI.
IVVKSTI(i.iTH)\ OK lMMCIOS :
it is not at all improbable, it was
iaid last night, that steps will be taken
his afternoon looking to an official
investigation Into the advancing prices
? ml the placing of commodities in cold
florage plants. The hoarding of food
stuffs in storage is said to b-? one of
?lie principal causes for the prevailing
trices. and drastic action against such
?radices has been taken in other
Ities.
One of the most important facts that
(Continued on Fourth PageT)
r
President of Standard Oil Com
pany Dies After Illness
of Two Weeks.
WORTH NEARLY $100,000,000
He Long Had Been Noted Fig
ure in World's Petroleum
Industry.
I M ' ?*..? iat.,1 IVrv , I
TA III* VTOW'X, \ v. |
;A noted ilKT.ro in ihe world's i?f
industry was r"movn| to-day when
i-lolm In.stin Ar.-hl,o|.l. .-npitMi,,!. ?ri.yi.
?I'm of tli? Standard -?j| .'ompany of
New J'-rsoy. ?nd ..m.-r,. ,)irc.-tor hi
various "Iher e?t, rprises. ,|jed at ,,is
home li?rr., after a two-week*' illnew*
s"hs''1,1""1 tr' ?" 'in ration for appen
diritis. I ,*uth en me at t o'clock this
m^rninc.
For sMor;,| ho,? . ,h, ,>?! font hud
' "n in ri\ |,r?,,rr nourish.
r- r,:t. and lliomt^rs his family r-cog.
i.izrd las', night thai the end was near
lumral services will )|r|r! lur
on Thursday atte?de,| hv
relatives and many ,.f |,i- personal anil
business friends. Including John |?
KorUffll'-r and William Rockefeller
and their families. While these s,.r.
vires urr takitiR place. Tarrvtcwna
, various industries will suspe?,i cpera
tlon fts a memorial t<? Mi. Archhold's
democracy in the village of his resi
: d'tif '. ,
Mr. Archbold is sur vived |,y j,;.,
widow; a son. .John I' Ar.iibohl. of
Thomasville. Ha., and two daughters.
Mrs M. M Van Beuren. ..f Newport.
H. I., f nd Mrs. A rma r l> Saunderson.
of Lyndhurst. Kngland.
in on. iirsimoss
SIXCK i:\HI.\ ) III Til
Mr. Arrhhold was a native .,f Ohio,
and was sixty-eight yours old. In
early 1 ifo l,e was an oil finer and
!"jv"r ,n West'rn Pennsylvania, and in
1R..? I-. he? iim? associe ted with the
Koi-k'-toiler interests. a connection that
? ontinued until his death. II,. became
president of the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey shortly affr the disso
lution of the "trust" was ordered by
the t niterj States Supreme Court.
Mr. A rch hold's death followed an
illness of less than twi. weeks. II? was
r iterated upon for ?ipfiendi-itis Novem
ber !?:!. and for a time s ???mod to rally.
I.ater he suffered r reiup.se, and the
five phvsi.-ians atte idm.r him decided
thM blo'tl transfusion must he re
-ort.-d io. Mr. Ar lin< Id's chauffeur
.volunteered as the subject of this
operation, and transfusion was per
formed on the afternoon of November
.9 by Dr. Udwin Lind"mann and Or.
I'Jeorge K. Brewer.
Following the operation Mr. Arch
bold showed increased strength, and
liis physicians and members of his
family appeared optimistic that the im
provement would he permanent. His
simple habits of 1 ifr- and rugged con
stitution buoyed up the hope that he
would survive. Throughout his ill
ness Mr. Arrhhold retain.<1 his ke*n
mentality, and his strong determina
tion to recover aided for a time the
fight to bring him back to health.
CI.OSULV IDKNTIKIKI)
WITH ST \ M> \It II Oil,
John I?. Arrlibnld was almost as '
closely identified with the historv of
! ilie Standard Oil as John l\ liorkef'eller
himself, i if the first nine trustees ?>f
the "trust" formed in iss-j, he alone
remained in this On pa e i t y until its
dissolution in 1911 at the order of the
! United States Supreme Court, and it
1 was he who was named to engineer
| the dissolution, after which he became
president and director of the Standard
j Oil Company of New Jersey. He was1
the most active and aggressive fighter
in the oil combine, and invariabl> rep
resented the Standard iiil on the wit
ness stand in the numerous hearings in
connection with the government's suit
to dissolve it.
This publicity was heightened still
further by the publication of a scire or
more of letters from Mr. Arrhhold to
Joseph n Komker. Hon Senator from
Ohio; Representative Joseph <'. Sibley,
of Pennsylvania, and other statesmen!
showing (hat large sums of money had
been distributed for the alleged pur- I
pose of influencing favorable legisla- '
tioi\ at Washington! Mr. Archbold
considered them as attorney fees. The
publication of these letters exposed Mr
Archbold io attark from every quarter!
John I Hist in Archbold was horn at
Leeshurg. Ohio, July ists. and was
working in a country store at Salem.
Ohio, when lie heard of ihe wonderful
oil regions in Western Pennsylvania,
where men were hrroming rirh over
night In 1ST,4 he went to the oil fields
and became a refiner and buyer at
Titusville Me became the agent of a
new company, the Acme Company,
which proved to be an offshoot of the
Rockefeller interests, and from that
time, in 1875. until his dea'tlf he was
an associate of the Itockefcilcrs.
It has been estimated that his for
tune, made aim st entirely in r.ii and
its byproducts, was nearly $100.000.Ano.
Mr. Archbold was one of t|)e best :
informed men in the details of the oil
busnjejs in all its branches, and lie
held, according to his own statement,
that all the practices of the Standard
Oil Company were honorable and, he
believed, in conformity to law.
"I stand unquestionably." he said in
defending the trust Idea, "for co-opera
tive evolution. I believe that the large
corporations of the present day repre
sent more nearly this co-operation than |
any other .system yet undertaken."
Although Mr. Archbold was not par- i
ticularly conspicuous as a benefactor,
he made many large gifts, including
a sum of $-100,000 to Syracuse tJni- j
versify in one Jump, besides annual '
donations of smaller amounts. He was !
also a church member and a liberal
contributor to religious work. He was
married in 1870 to Miss Annie MUM,
of TltuHvllle. Pa., and maintained a
beautiful estate at Cedar Cliff, Tarry
town-on-Hudson. and a home at South
ampton, Long Islund.
President's Message
Is Devoted Entirely
to Domestic Affairs
Railroad Problems F'orm
Burden of His Discus
sion and Recommen
dations to Congress.
I: B> A soi-late.I I'rp-.- |
WAS! I I N' ;TO.S. I hiI "< Prosi
I r 1 r> 11 ( Wilson's address lit til'- I'llClltlli
of the session of ('Dimrcss lo-iluy was
j w holly all voted to domestic Subjects,
'principally 111. probb in <?f railway
i legislation.
j In tli' hill '.f tlx- House with Sena
tors and Representatives atisnmblcii in
joint H'-sion. President Wilson, in ac
corda iio< with the custom ho began
at the op'-ning of his term. read hif
> address from the clerk s desk.
The President. not only r? icwed his
ieeommeiidation for legislation to pre
vent a nation-wide railway" strike 01
lockout before there lias been oppor
j in nit y for investigation, hut defended
it against the attack o> ui ^anizol
i labot hs not l.ing arbitrary "i unjust
a'ol the "justifiahle safeguarding by
society of the necessary processes of
i?s very life."
OM.V ON i: KKATI HI-: Til \T
HAD .NOT 111".ION I'tlltt l-:i?
Aside from recommendations for the
passage or the Porto Rico government
lull, the cor: U pt - practices hill and the
W ebb bill to legalize American col
lective selling agencies abroad, the
President's address was devoted whol
ly to the railroad situation. The only
feature which had not been tore.as'
was the elimination of the proposal
that t'ongresu give explicit approva
ls consideration by the Interstat.
Commerce ' 'oniinlsslon of an incre:u?
in freight rates to meet additional ex
penditures by the railroads caused by
the operation of the Adamson law
To-day. the President took the posi
tion that "the power of the Inter
state commerce Commission to grant
an increase of rates on the * round
referred to is indisputably clear and
a recommendation by the Congress
with regard to such a matter might
seem to draw In question the scope of
the commission's authority or its in
clination to do justice when there is
no reason to doubt either."
The other reconunemlations on the
tallroatl situation made In a special
message, during the last session, which
were not put into law. were renewed
to-day. They include;
"Immediate provision for the enlaree
ment and administrative reorganization
..f the interstate Commerce Commission
along the lines embodied in the bill re
centlv passed by the House of Repre
sentative* and now awaiting action by
the Senate, in order that the commis
sion may be enabled to deal with the
I i<'rt.iv great and various duties now de
' v.,'. .ig upon It with a promptness and
, thoroughness which arc. with its pres
I ent constitution and means <>f action.
| practically impossible.
j "An amendment of the existing Fed
eral statute, which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitra
tion of such controversies as the pres
jei.t he adding v it :? nroviston tha
'case the methods of accommodation
now provided for should fail, a tull
public investigation of the merits of
>?<?... shall he instituted
and completed before a strike or lock
out may lawfully be attempted.
"The lodgment in the hands of the
executive of the power, in case of mili
taiv necessity, to take control of such
portions of rolling stock of the rail
ways of the country as may be re
quired for military use ami to operate
them for military purposes, with au
thority to draft into the military ser
vice of the I'liltci states such train
crews and administrative ofllcials .is
me circumstances may require for (heir
ate ami eili. icnt use."
'WW ????? nW'ir.MMTHP
i'oi< ftnii'i I.smn invkjstiuatio.v
The renewed recommendation for
compulsory investigation of labor dis
putes on railways before strikes or
lockouts are allowed. which has j
aroused the opposition of the railroad |
brotherhoods and of the American |
Federation of l.ahor. was defended in
the President's message. He declared
">c v.-ouhl hesitate to recommend a law
which would force Individual workmen
to continue in an employment which
they desired to leave, but that no such
principle was Involved in the sugges
tion that the operation of the rail- |
ways of the country should not be
stopped by the concentrated action of
bodies of men until a public investiga
tion for the benefits of the public lias
been instituted.
? "It is based upon the very different
principle." he continued, "that the con
centrated action of powerful bodies of
men shall not he permitted to stop the
industrial processes of the nation?at
any rate, before the nation shall have
had an opportunity to acquaint Itself
with the merits of the case between
employee and employer, lime to form
its opinion upon an impartial statement |
of the merits, and opportunity to con- i
sider all practicable means of concilia
tion or arbitration. I can see nothing
in that proposition but the Justifiable
safeguarding by society of the neces
sary processes of its very life. There
is nothing arbitrary or unjust in it
unless it be arbitrarily and unjustly,
done. It can, and should, be done with
a full and scrupulous regard for the
Interests and liberties of all concerned
as well as for the permanent Interests
of society itself."
The message follows in full,
tlentlemen of the Congress:
In fulfilling at this time the duty
laid upon me. by the Constitution of
communicating to you from time to
time information of the state of the
Union and recommending to your con
sideration such legislative measures as
may be Judged necessary and expe
" (Continued on Second Page.)
Frightful Slaughter
Among Disease Germs
I Hy A .-iioolap-d Pres.*. I
MOM MlltK. Orceinlirr 5.?A?
mniij HH sa.vmr.snI. IUH.7TU ill-ense
KPriitM luive illr?Mid> met ileutli from
r \ po?tire to frcKli nir n? ? rmull ??l
\n, > nrk ? llj'i "open-window
wrrU," iiccorillnK (o n Htntement l?
Kitrd |o-da> li) the fllr lienllh de
partment"* liurrnu of *ltnl ?lntlittlr?.
Onr hm-dreil mid Iwrnly HkiiinhimI
i ulilo lui \ e liecn pr^fnlfil In Ihr
hvrnO-lour hours nrwH-illnic tl?e
pu l.'lvli ? ton of Mir IlKiire*, the bu
reau estimated. 'I'lilirrclr hni'HII.
pnriiinncMCi-l, nlrf|iloi*firrl nod line
l? rlnl for* nfr' rrjiortfil an rrlrrnt
Inu In ill*order." the bulletin said.
Tft-innrrnn ? II wii* n 11 n o u ni'f d ?
would lir ??TTJilk-to-TTork day.**
DMM OF BUKHRBEST
UPPRBENTLY SHLEB
Capital of Rountanln Reinp Rapidly
Knrompassed by Forces of
Central Powers.
DHIVK ST1 III' IS UNCHKCKKD
I All Lines of Retreat Save One Is
Cut Off l'Voin Defenders, and That
Is Threatened?Russian Offensive
Makes Xo Progress.
I My .\.?snriute<< Prfss !
hi Roil ma ilia tin* forces of the central
powers are continuing their drive to
ward ItuUharest. Already almost en
compassed on 111o south and southwest
by ihe Invaders, Hit* capital apparently
1 is heitiir rapidly approached from the
west and the north w est. with the Rou
manians and Russians nowhere able to
stem the title. The encircling move
; meni to the northwest from the regions
of Tergovlstcu and I'etrosita is dan
gerously threatening the town of
Ploechli and the only railroad running
1 from Rukharost except to the east. If
ibe pressure of the Teutons is main
tained, the indications are that they
soon will lie at the doors of the capital.
In the northwest, from the Car
pathians to the Moldavian frontier re
gion. the Russian offensive, is making
little if any progress.
While Petrograd announces the cap
ture of another range of heights on
> tlie Moldavian front, the Russian War
? irtloe admits the recapture hy the Teu
tons in the' woodet' Carpathian sector
of a height south of Voroneshka. Ber
lin says the Russian attacks every
where have been without avail.
I in the Macedonian front east of the
; f'erna River, the Serbians north of
iirunislite and Itudiinirtsa have taken
an additional forlllied position from
thr Bulgarians. The Bulgarians in this
region are said lo be retreating.
Artillery duels and various small
? attacks by infantry continue on the
western front in l-'rance and Belgium.
The A ustro-Italian and Russian war
theaters have been barren of important
events.
Ml SI t t lOSS ACIIIKVKII
IIV ItlSSIA.N ATTACKS
l Hy Associated Press. 1
lilCRUN. December 0 <via Sayville).
!?Renewed Russian attacks in the Car
pathian forests and along the line of
the Transylvaiiian frontier were made
yesterday, but did not gain the slight
est success, it is announced officially.
Teutonic troops recaptured lost posi
tions.
In Western Koumauia the Teutonic
troops are pursuing the defeated Rou
manians on the front before Bukhar
?:st. They are across the railroad
leading from BuUharest to Tergovlstea.
In the Danube lowlands Russian at
tacks were repulsed with heavy losses
| ami the number of prisoners taken has
been increased to IC.r.OO. The state
ment follows:
"The front of Archduke Joseph: Re
newed Russian attacks on Caput and
northeast of Drtrana Watra and in the
I'litna, Trot us and Uzul Valleys'were
without the slightest success. Simul
taneously licrinan and , Austro-Mun
?garian troops recaptured by storm an
hand-to-hand tigbtins a height posi
tion lost during the preceding lighting,
which was an important one for lis.
After these engagements, of which some
were very violent, there remained in j
our bauds on the Verchdebry, south
of Tartar Cass, more than 100 men and
five machine guns and on Mountain
N'enura in the northern Oituz Valley,
:i;,0 prisoners and eight machine guns.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen: The ninth army during
the pursuit of the enemy broke the
resistance of the hostile rear guards
and crossed the Bukharest-Tregovistea- )
I'etrosita Railroad to the eastward.
"The Danube army after the victory'
gained on the lower Argechu against
numerically superior forces followed
the retreating enemy in litis sector. In
the victory mentioned the 217th infan
tr.v division took an especially glorious
part.
"The left wing of the Danube army
fought its way beyond this sector.
The easterly- wing in the Danube low
lands sanguinarily repulsed Russian
attacks.
"The number of prisoners reported
yesterday lias increased to 12.."ift0. To
the number captured by the ninth army
a further L',000 and to that of the
Danube army ?J.iiftf) men have been
added. The prisoners last mentioned
belonged to Twenty-second Infantry,
and six different artillery regiments.
"in Dobrudja there have been no
major engagements."
WOMEN UNFURL .
SUFFRAGE FLAG
BEFORE WILSON
Drop Smuggled Banner Over
Rail of House as He
Reads Message.
LOOKS UP SMILINGLY.
AND CONTINUES ADDRESS
Leaders of Coup, Enthusiastic,
Allowed to Go Un
molested.
PKKSIPEXT fJICTS OVATION*
. All Parties Join in CJrcnt Demon
stration Over His lie
ICIect ion.
(By Axxot'iaf><! I'r1
W ASM I.VOTOX, December r>. Presi
dent Wilson s address to Congress to
da\ was marked by a woman sufrragi*
coup in ilo> galleries ? the lirsl real
show of organized militancy in the
'capital and by a great demonstration
Of congratulation to Hi,. I 'resident upon
his re-election, in which many Repuh
? licans joined.
ATten acknowledging Hie prolonged
cheers and applause which greeted hip
-"try to u,o hall of the Mouse, the
I 'resident had launched into his ad
dress. re vie wine recommendations fof
j iailroad legislation, a corrupt-practices
act and hud passer! to his recommen
dations for a broader government for
orto liico. Me, was just about to be
gin a sentence: 'The present laws gov
erning the island and regulating the
rights and privileges of its people are
m.t just." when over the rail of the
gallery, where sat a party of woman
? ifftage leaders, there fluttered down
above the heads of an amazed as
semblage ?f Senators and Representa
tives a silken banner of suffrage vel
ow. bearing in great black letters the
inscription:
"President Wilson, what will you do
,for woman suffrage?"
; The suffragists said. afterward it
| ?as their protest against the Presi
? ents plea with Congress for broader
laws for the men of Porto Rico, while
He did not mention their own cause
I in his address.
i HA.VMOH is (M K KI.1
S.WrcHKD PUUN ITS PI.ACE
j As the banner rlpplen down, the s.if
! f'aKists s?? smiling and unperturbed.
A page, raised on the arms of men
directly under the gallery, grasped the
^dge of the banner and snatched it
down President Wilson, attracted bv
. the stir, looked np from his reading
and apparently taking in the situation
at a glance, smiled broadly and with
|om hesitation or interruption turned
, his eyes back to his manuscript and
.continued his address to its end with
out further demonstration.
Policemen and gallery guards scur
ried to where the women wet., seated
?ut contented themselves with watch
"?ff the party, as if to prevent a fur
I liior outbreak.
i When the joint session was over thfe
stiffragists tiled out unmolested bv the
police, who said they had no orders
oilier than to prevent any further in
;"S"'Ment of the rules of the Mouse.
I In banner remained with the ser
geant-at-arms.
ofTa.: I:r,0n- ?Vi(1Cnt,V '? possession
! . . '",VH"00 copy of the President's
address, had timed the document as to
the speed they expected he would read
anticipated he would reach the
ri,on ,n -'nut
Miss .Mabel Vernon, of Nevada who
heckled the President here at his
llTT ,V<ler:ition "f Labor speech
' ne. ! , Wh? "n,uM>ed the ban
rn'n " I ." ??'??" .wmiery under her
si'Mi-il "f ' <l11 li'"e "nd Kny* th?
? K"al for the unfurling of the banner.
> I'HKSt.s AtiKXT II A.VOs
<?I T "( A.VM;,)- urtT?,
' K illerv"0 f\U? COUUl set to
' tl,p suirragists' press agent
was busy handing out "canned- re
ports of the affair replete in detail.
ffiMng the names ,.f ,h(. militants and
interviews with each.
The concensus of their opinion was
summed up by Mrs. Ahoy Scott Hake,,
of the . ongressional Union. who de
' '' '"cidcMit was expressive of
'"'I'gnation that women feel ;,t the
Mupld and senseless opposition lo
granting the riRht o, self-government
.State' th? R ?f M'e LTn,tc''
-The ten women, who participated
the coup were .Miss Vernon. Dr.
C aroline l? Spencer, of Colorado: Mrs
Morence Itayard Milles. of Delaware;
, JohM "odgers. of New York; Mrs
Anna l.owenburg. of Pennsylvania;
. is. I.essie 11. Papandre and Miss
?Maud < lilhert. of California; Mrs. W
( ?U' r.,f X,nv v?rk : Miss l.ucy Burns,
or the ? ongressional L*nlon. and Mrs
r"\\ nseud Scott, of Maryland. The
first tivc. held the banner and the iat
t*r the acted as guards, prepared to
resist interference.
"It was a most excellent demonstra.
ii"... said Chairman Alice Paul, chair
man ,.f the Congressional l nlon "Cer
tainly we may in the future adopt va -
rious methods not dissimilar to the
one m e used to-day. to keep Oengre??
temimieri of our cuuse."
Aside from the suffrage incident, the
demonstration of welcome which
gieeted the President was the featur.
?r the Joint session.
HltVA.V A N1) t'ARIVKT
,N KK.HKHVKD PLACK*
of Yl I c ?fe,,nin*J* most
of the. <. ablnet. occupying reserved
Places on the rloor. led in the demon
stration. which was prolonged and
noisy. |n ,he c*)lerles Mrs. Wilson
and women of the Cabinet Joined in the
hnndclapplng. m ,?c dip,om*t?c gal
Icncs representatives of many of the
' i
