1
4-
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
t Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow air;
fresh to strong west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 6a; loweat, 50.
Detailed weather, malt and marine reports on pare 1G.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 97.
44-
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1916. cqpm, nie,
ONE CENT
In firrater New York. I Elsewhere
Jersey City anil Newark. I TWO !KNT.
by the Sun Printing amt Vubltehlnp Aisoclalton.
LABOR TO FIGHT
WILSON'S PLAN
TOCURBSTRIKES
JTany Congress Leaders of
Both Parties Solidly Be
hind the Programme.
GET UP EARLY, THIS IS
"WALK TO WORK" DAY
APPROVAL SHOWN
AFTER THE ADDRESS
tempers Immediately De
dares War on Adminis
tration Proposal.
FOOD QUESTION NOT
RAISED IN MESSAGE
Resident Pleads for Early
Passage of Corrupt '
Practices Bill.
Get un early this morning, put on
your oldest and beat broken shoes, for
this Is "Walk to Work" day In the
Health Department's campaign of germ
annihilation. According- to tho mor
tality rate among bacilli, reported for
the first day of tho "Open Window"
week, next Haturday there hardly will
bo left a full sited germ lit the city.
The computations of the Department of
Health statisticians brought the devas
tation of the little microbes close to a
trillion.
The fervor for figures Impels the de
partment to estimate that 4,7S:,332 win
dows were open In Greater New York.
Also 120.000 cases of cold have been
prevented. 1'neumonla cases, which
otherwise would have ended fatally,
nave succumbed to the oncn window
air draughts and a horde of other nox
ious ailments nave been put to rout,
say the officials.
In anticipation of the "I. W. W." cru.
sadc "I Walk to Work" the bridge
and principal thoroughfares will bo kept
as clear as possible. The drug stores
will display their full stocks of tunica
and footease.
The week will conclude with a hike u
Yonkcrs, In which "the student- of the
College of the City of New Y rk will
participate. Four ellver medals an.t
thirty-one of brome have been donated
by Dr. John H. Klnley, State Commit
sloner of Education. The first division
will be limited to the collegians. A ser
ond division will be open to tho general
public, but no medals are offered for
these hikers.
Washincto.v, Dec. C. With many
ef the Republican and practically all
the Democratic leaders solidly behind
hlai, President Wilson to-day In his
inaual message to Congress outlined
I.U programme of railroad legislation
which Is aimed to prevent In the fu
ture labor disputes on railroads and
the possibility of a countrywide tlcup
of railroad traffic.
Ranking Republican members of tho
House and Senate united to-night In
praise of this portion of tho Presl-
tent's proposed programme, which Is
conceded to be one of the most Impor
tut legislative proposals ever put be
fore Congress.
Several leaders In Congress do not
tike kindly to that part of the Presl
dent's programme which provides for
compulsory public investigation of nil
railroad labor disputes and the labor
leaders have nerved notice that they
will fight thlH proposal to the last
ditch. Unquestionably there will be a
bitter fight before this legislation Is
passed.
Fifteen Mlaslr Adams.
President Wilson, appearing In pen-on
taek just fifteen minutes to deliver his
mtMaire, and perhapt no message ever
delivered by n Democratic Irtdent ever
received the approval that was bestowed
on the President by the Republican mem
hers when he had finished his message
to-day.
Samuel Oomper. president of the
American Federation of Labor, and
Frank Morrison, secretary, who listened
carefully to the reading of the message,
lmmed.ately declared war on the Presl
dent's programme, especially the pro
vision for compulsory Investigation. It
! likely that a hitter fight will be waged
Sy the labor leaders before tho pro
gramme Is eventually enacted Into law,
Besides the compulsory Invest'gntlon
feature the 1'iesldent recommended that
all of the remaining features of his orlg
nsl programme be carried out with one
exrentlon.
The proposal Sir. Wilson did not renew
was that Congress should give "explicit
approval to consideration by the inter
!ate Commerce Commission of an In
irtaso of freight rates to meet any extra
epene entailed on the railroads by an
e-cir Hour day. Ilia reason for not re-
Hewing this, he explained, was that tho
ommlKlon already possessed the power
nd that such a recommendation by
fongresn might seem to question the
"oopc or us authority.
fault h Department Advises
Use of Old Shocn 4,752,322
Windows Open in N. Y.
OLIVER, A PRINCE I FOXH ALL KEENE
CHARMING,HERE BADLY INJURED
Clins. H. Wax, Alias Osliornc,
Arrives From Chicago and
Goes to Tombs.
CAPTIVATES HIS GUARDS
Fail From Horse in Farming
ton, Md., Causes Concus
sion of Drain.
Good Story Teller, in Fashion
able Attire, Laughed and
Joked All the Way.
$5,000,000 BONUS
TO 49,000 WORKERS
One of the plcasantcst trips that Post
Ortlce Inspector William O. Swain ever
took was finished last night at 8:30
o'clock when the Pennsylvania Limited
nrrlved at the Pennsylvania Railroad
MYSTERY IX ACCIDENT
Found in Clump of Bushes
Dr. Panconst, Specialist,
Attending Him.
Foxhall Keene, polo player and noted
sportsman, Is lying dangerously 111 from
concussion of the brain In the clubhouse
of the Harford Hunt Club, In Farming
ton, Md. He was thrown or fell from
Station. The Limited brought Swain his mount late yesterday afternoon while
Saute Fe Road and Western
Uni6n Announce Huge Xinns
Gift for Employees.
from Chicago with Charles II. Wax,
who has confessed he Is "Oliver Os
borne," and tho compartment they occu
pied resounded with laughter.
Wax Is a man who can tell an enter
taining yarn, chat about his soldier ex
periences In the Philippines and make a
1.000 mile Journey pass quickly. That
Is the testimony Inspector Swain bore
last night.
"A charming fellow, one of the most
entertaining I ever met," said Swain.
"He Is Just as the women have described
him. a brilliant, likable man."
As ho appeared last night on the
completion of his Journey, Wax would
have caught the approving eye of a
fashion editor. He had a dark blue
soft hat, suit to match, gray overcoat.
soft collar, green tie with cameo pin, tan
shoes not too yellow In hue and silk
socks of neutral brown.
One could see at the first glance thnt
he studied his appearance. One could
note at the second that his face was
hard, though handsome In a way. If ou
consider the dimple In hl chin, the blue
eyes and the white teeth. His large fat
hands were well cared for.
participating In the Joint Hunts meeting,
which Is on of Ilaitlmore'a social
events.
Dr. Omar Pancoast, one of Johns Hop
kins Hospital's noted specialists, Is In at
tendance. Dr. Pancoast was called on
the long distance telephone last night nt
hi home. In Ualtlmore and verified Tiir
SfN's report of the seriousness of Mr.
Keene s accident.
"Mr. Kcene," said the physician, is now
lying n patient in the Hartford club
house suffering from concussion of the
brnln, which he received to-dny while
hunting. While he is In a serious condi
tion. It Is too early to say now whether
ha is fafnllv lnlitf-j.il U. alinll I, luoint-
able -to determine that within the next I
twenty-four hours. He Is having the
best care possible and nothing more run
be done. He has moments of conscious
ness, nud tries to talk, but he is very
Incoherent."
Horse llrturnrd Alone.
ASTOR WATCHMAN AND
FOUR BURGLARS IN DVEL
Men Fight Early 3Iornlng Pis
tol Battle on Rhine
beck Estate.
PocuilKgKPsir, Dec. li. Four burglars
who tried early this morning to enter
the home of Vincent Astor In Rhlncbeck
were chased off tho estate after a pistol
battle with Peter Wheeler, a night
watchman, who has held this position at
Ferncllff for more than twenty year.
Herbert Piiikham. superintendent of the
estate, and Sheriff Conklln. with n halt
doicn deputy fcherlffs, searched tho coun
try until noon to-day. but failed to llnd
any trace of the burglars. It Is believed
that they escaped In nn HUtomoblle.
Wheeler rounded a corner of tho house
and saw tho men creeping along on
the riverside. He opened fire. The men
scattered nnd returned the shots. From
the shelter of .1 tree tho watchman con
tinued to shoot until the men disap
peared toward the highway. The Her
vants nrmed and Joined the watchman.
They conducted a search until the
Sheriff arrived. Mr. and Mrs. Astor
were away.
JURY TO DECIDE IF
WHALE ATE JONAH
Connecticut Minister Going on
Trial To-day for Doubting
Holy Writ.
WATcr.HfnT, Conn., Dec. f.. Did Adam
and the whale cat respectively an apple
and Jonah?
ASQDITH RESIGNS AS BRITISH PREMIER;
KING OFFERS POST TO BONAR LAW;
CABINET CRISIS BELIEVED AT END
ALL HOPE GONE
FOR BUCHAREST
Pctrograd Admits Continued 1
Advance of Foo Toward
Rumanian Capital.
Principal Figures
in Cabinet Crisis
12.500 PRISONERS TAKEN
Teutons Report Repulse of
Russian Attacks in the
Danube Lowlands.
Loniio.v, Dec. 5. The situation of
Uucharest Is virtually hopeless, accord
ing to tho admissions of the Russian
War Ofllce. The ndvanco of the Teuton
forces apparently is Irresistible. The
fall of the city In the light of to-day's
official statement Is only a matter of i
days.
Pctrograd says the Rumanians have
been wholly unsuccessful In their at
tempts to stem the enemy's advunco on
BBj;iB3B
SB BBff x CBBBbbI I
I 111 . JMI
as
Leader of Unionists Delays
Acceptance of tho
Office.
SOLUTION TAKES
UNEXPECTED TURN"
Action Follows Conferences!
Lloyd George Keeping
in Background.
OUTC03IE INDICATES
HIS REAL SUCCESS
This State Is likely to have a Judlclul the roads to Ploechtl and Uucharest. The
dpeMon on these questions. If the facts statement from llcrlln describes the Hu-
thpintii1vpR nr.. not Mettled liv h Itirv heiel tnanl.ifin in full retrenl with the Ten.
There Is considerable douht reeardlns ... .. .. . . ...... .. ....
the exact maiitWr In which Keene re-' ' . . .. . ...........
Prisoner l Taken lo Tomb.
reled his Injuries. The first that any
of the members of the hunt club know
that he had been hurt was when hN
horse g-.illopcd back to the club grounds
riderless. A search was commenced
Immediately and Mr. Keene was found
h'.. ....... in iim Tombs last . unconscious In a Huimi of hushes about I prosecutions for at least u century
nlaht after appearing momentarily be- half a mile from the club house. The law provides penalty for any one
fore United States Assistant District It wits nt first supposed that he had 1 "who calls Into question any portion of
ttorney Roger II. Wood. He walked been thrown while taking n fence, but , ""'' Wr"-. "tl " specifications
f.. w.,ir..i imlMlnir to the nrlson. i Investigation showed that this was Im. I against Moekus. u Lithuanian minister
determine whether It Is blasphemous to
doubt the Hlble versions of them.
Michael Mockus Is to go on trial be
fore a Juiy n complaint that he violated
it law pasted in Connecticut 2" I years
I ago, under which there have been no
iiti.i letted with his suards at every tcp.
He gave his pedigree to Acting Warden
John J. Klynn with a flippant air. He
described himself ns an aviator and
walked to his cell with a smile.
Wax came here as the prisoner of
Samuel Howard, chief deputy to the
United Stales Marhal In Chicago, who
was accompanied by Detective Sergeant
John J. Duffy of the Chicago Police De
partment and Inspectors Swain and
John Nlles.
trwiwelnr 1 Inward (!. Mayhew, who
i ... .nf.i ti.e unrrU for tho elusive I Keene's darlnr has resulted In his In
Oliver, met the party nt Philadelphia, Jury, In 1895 he had a narrow eche
more Ui protect the prisoner In cah any I from death while participating In a polo
women should attack him at the end of match nt Prospect Park, He as
his tourney than to prevent his escape. knocked from his pony during a scuffle.
Not n sliwlc word would Wax add last i hi J mount fell on him nnd he was picked
mailt to tn unci iushmj m m- nv p y"--'""".
possible, as there wero no fences 'n the
vicinity.
Sympathetic hands carried him to the
club house, where everything wan done
t? alleviate his suffering, and several
physicians were soon speeding from
Ualtlmore to his bedside. Dr. Pancoast
was summoned as soon ns a hasty diag
nosis indicated the seriousness of Mr.
Keene's Injur)'.
Hart Many Tinea.
This Is only one of many times that
which had been given out by Swain In
Chicago. Tho Inspector sam vtux nau
refUKed to talk lo any e In Chicago,
and that all Interviews purporting to
come fiom him wcic fabricated.
Ihnni Dislike for Reporters.
Wax showed his dislike for reorters
by growling at them wnen nicy "
for a statement. Just before he left
of the I'nltarliin faith, are that he ex
pressed his disbelief In the story of
Jonah and the whale, and also In the
apple that Adam ale.
Other specifications against Mockus
contain details that would generally be
to mod blusphemoUH.
Mockus was tried In September, but
the Jury disagreed. Thin time he has
engaged as counel Theodore Schroeder
of New York, president of the P'reo
Speech League, and Lawrence I.. Lewis
of this city. ,
Schroeder says lie plans to argue that
the ntatute of Id:.' n.-iplled to all sacred
beliefs and ulnce tlnu who framed the
law believed In witchcraft and rigarded
that belief. as orthodox and m.ti-1 every
one who to-day denies tho existence of
witches li illlt "f violating the statute.
Christmas bonuses amounting to $,-
000,000 and benefiting 49,000 employees
were announced yesterday by the Atchi
son, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad Com
pany and the Western Union Telegraph
Company. The high cost of living nnd
the prosperous condition of the com
panies arc given as the reasons for the
bonuses.
The Kanta Fe will distribute about
12,750,000 to 25,000 employees. In the
announcement President 1'. P. Ripley
ays additional compensation equal to
10 per cent, of a year a pay, will be given
to all employees In the service of the
railroad system for at least two years
whose annual compensation does not ex
ceed 12, 500 and whose compent-atlon bt
not paid according to present or former
contract schedules.
The latter provision excludes members
of the four brotherhoods, engineers, tire-
men. brakemen nnd conductors, from
participation In the bonuses. Those
benefited aro for the most part clerks,
operators, agents, trackmen and ard-
men, who are not affected by the Adam-
son law.
Directors of the Western t'nlon held a
special meeting yesterday, nt which It
waa decided to grnnt bonuses to 24,000
employees. MesenRein will receive
than 11,200 a year, 7 per cent, of their I Hut lie was amiaoic chuuhu i tended him. Just ten ear prior to that
yearly pay, and those receiving between ;'all the way along. .-in ' Keene was badly hurt while rldine tojltrsrnu Insult nt llsmU of Lender
t,200 and 12,000. e per cent. Wax lias convince.! ' hounds In Dunshaughlln. County Mcntli.
A despatch from South Rethlehem. 1 that he is me uner n Ireland. He was reported killed In this
Pa., yesterday said that President K. M. . sought so long In all p.rts oi ini"" ' country at that time.
Mcllvalne of the Lehigh Coke Company try. Ho made the dlrt admission to i.-xhnn Keene Is the son of the late
Teutons have crosed the railroad lead
ing from Uucharest to TVrgovlstca.
The Rus'laim concede tho recapture by
the Austrn-dcrman forces of a height ii -tlie
wooded Carpathians, which, accord
ing to the (lerniun statement, was lost 1
by them some time agj and was tv.
garded as an important position. Kflorts
of tN Russlnim to break throne li the 1
Carpathian barrier are said to hac bee-i
fruitless In eveiy Instance.
I .,.-. Prisoners Taken,
In the Danube lowlands the Austrj- i
Herman forces repulsed the Russian at
tacks. Inflicting heavy damage and In i
creasing the number of prisoners to
1 2.500. Of the new prisoners of wnt
2,000 were captured by tho Ninth army
and 2,500 by the Danube army. The
nrw "prisoners belonged to twenty-two1
Infantry and six artillery regiment".
The Herman statement speaks of no
important engagements In DobriidJa, but
the War Ofllce In Sofia announces that
the match of the llulgarlans t'ont.nur
in Wallachla and tliat in the Dobrudja
there was artillery actnliy along tho'
entire front, with a complete lepulse of
enems attacks nude against the Hul
31 ore Vigorous "War Policy;
but Coalition Will
Continue.
KBBBBBSEB
Hi
sons watching the mutch for the William i In 1SP5 on attempt was made to pros- I lH..".. i-f, ...i,, i.iu....n i nil.eul nnd
Waldorf Astor cup thought that liu had , ecute for blasphemy, but the rase was j1m. Kfi,.r which the cmuiv re
been killed, jthiown out of courl : nil the ground that, Uratei ,1(.nn,u, t0 his former po-'itlon.
Keete was also ery seriously Injured there wan no l,iw forblddln-r It In thnt1 )t ., H.,.(j ,,:, wirslilps shelled
In Ilcestershlre, Kngl.md. In 1902 while 1 state. In 1 s!M there was a Mniitar pros. t-IM!tJ.ltu.i ineffectively,
hunting to bounds. He was thrown from edition in N'ew Jersey and the dtfcnJ-j itussl.iii attacks mi Capul and north-
ins niMsi- ni iiiui mm- ..no f.ui.i.iiiM.1 ii Km was linen, liimcii t. iiuersou ue-
bad Injury of the head, which It was fended the accued and paid the line
fenied then was going to develop Into himself.
concussion of the brain. He wa" cared
for then nt the home of Capt. Hartopp,
lor u siuiriii.1... - . - , ..,, 'tor men at tne nome or vapt. iinnnpp, Turxri uurcm-'WT urorfvc
Chicago he punched a l'''0"n, ! - master of bound, where hla wife at-' DUMA PRESIDENT RESIGNS.
had announced an Increase In wage of.ih'e Inspector that he Is the man whOtHn)M n Keene, financier, one of the
made love, to iiae miiM-i. most noted horsemen In the world. Ite-
Otkrr Proposals.
In addition he proposed the passage of
the pending amendment to tho anti-trust
l'ws permitting cooperation and combi
nations for the promotion of foreign
raue, suggested a corrupt practices act
"id at the eleventh hour added a uara'
k'aph to his message urging the passage
Jif the vocational education bill. This
had been requested of him yesterday by
Samuel dotnpers and a committee of the
'Virerican federation of Labor during
all at the White House.
. There was no mention In the Presl
perils address of tho food situation
mis evened criticism not only from He
PUDIICans but from miinv Tptnni.rnt
There had been reports that he would
":aeroiaio home reference to this mat
'r, nut tnese, it now appeara, wero
.rounuiess. The opinion prevails, how
ever, among those close to the Admlnls
'anon that tho President will ee fit
later on to call the attention of Congress
'n this question, It Ih known that he Is
Showing with close Interest the Investl
ntlons begun by the Department of
histlco and the Department of Com
merce into the food situation.
Representative Fitzgerald, leader of
'(e fight for embargo legislation, was
"n of those who expressed keen disap
pointment over the Presldenfa failure to
Mlude to tho -cost of living question,
""n same line of attnek wan taken by
many Republicans who directed attention
to the President's continued silence upon
a toplo which had furnished a plank for
the Democratic platform.
Less Interest In Ceremony.
The President's appearance before
rongress was largely a formal proceed
ng, differing little from his former ap
pearances, and seemed to attract less In
rest than on other occasions. The two
houses assembled In tnlnt uulnn In lhA
llou.se chamber, the Senators marching
fver In dignified procession to take their
sts in the front rows reserved for
them.
It was the President's first appearance
''fore Congress since his reelection nnd
he wna received with frantic applause by
the Democrats when he entered the
chamber at 1 P. M. This he smilingly
acknowledged. The. Republicans with a
fe- cxcsptlons remained silent.
The occasion was rather dry and fsa
turcdeis nave for one Incident. This was
ewrlbuted by sis more or less militant
'uffraglsts, representatives of the Con
resslona Union for Woman Suffrage,
wlilie the President was reading his ad
('eas the suffragists .unfurled from the
I'll of the aallerr opposite him a Is re
"How banner Inscribed In purple letter
''Mr, President, what will you do for
worriHn uffrsgeT"
The dliturDlng.banner, which probably
approximately 10 per cent. Tho Increase
will liecome effective on December HI, the
same day that the 10 per cent. Increase
of the Hethlchem Steel Company will
begin.
Ten per cent, emergency bonuses
were granted yesterday to their em
ployees by all the paper mills in west
ern Massachusetts, Including those In
Plttsfleld, Holyoke, Agawam and Mil
tlneague. The action was taken to off
set the cost of living, according to des
patches received here yesterday. About
5,000 men are affected.
The Chicago Ilridge and Iron Works
company of (Irecnvllle, Pa., also an
nounced nn Increase of 10 per cent. In
wages of 1,000 employees yesterday.
it. tn. iiu limn, itbotit Itae lauzer. i.. t...t ti -
. lit. I I rimj in- iniri.rii ,1 laiiir iniiri ihiiivc
than wo ever dreamed of. said Swam, ( throUgh the death of his mother.
"and he also said that he had pome here .
to right a wrong."
Wax Mild he waa discharged from the DAILY MENU COST 30 CENTS.
Pulled States army and that he had a
i
Diet Sqnnd Kudu Test and Cnlna
WrlKht.
Ciiicac.o. Dec. Care In marketing
east of Durnn-Watra and In the l'utua,
Tiotm nnd I'r.ul valleys were without
uny success whatever, accoidlng to the
Oct man account.
Turks llrpitrt ui'i'eei.
l'lncchtl, mentioned III the Petrouiad
statoment lis one of the objective of the
Invadero' advance, I" about thirty-live
mile- noitheast of Iiuchiiret on the line
ml i rilL)
n i-i rn mi
Loniio.v, Dec. C. Tho Clnvfinment
crisis found a solution to-nlyht which
up to tho hour of its announcement
was considered the least probable oC
practical nltci natives.
Herbert II. Asqtilih rcdlgncd the
Premiership, which Im lina held
through eight stormy years of ilomcs
tic and foreign liudoiy. The Unionist
leader, Andrew Houur Law, w:is sum
inoncil to the I 'al ice immediately after
Mr. Asqulth had departed unit tha
King offered him tlio Prime Minister's
commission, which he hud Just uc
ceptcd from Mr. Asijtilth'M hands.
No announcement irgai'illnt; Mr.
Ileum- Law's decision has yet heert
made and then; are i-omn doubts
whether ho will accept tho heavy re
sponsiblllty. If ho declines It I con.
Hldered certnln that the honor will fall
to David Lloyd George. The rontlnua
tlnn of the Coalition Cublnct, with aomej
changes In Its mcrimorshlp, nnd tho
speeding tip of the war manisemcnt
I will be the policy In either event.
Court' niioiiiK'eiurnl.
The court circular iinnounceil to-nmlit
"The Right Honorable Mr AmiuIUi had
an aild'.enc. with his Majesty tun KI113
and tendered his resignation an Prima
Minister ami Klrst l.oid of th V e.u
ury, which the King ha liven cniciius.y
p eased to .ic 'pi."
The Prrmlut'ri decision to H'ii:i ,inI
advise the King tn suuitiion Andiew Ho
llar Law to form 11 Culonet vv.i taien
after 11 day of cxtmotdiimi y pol.toMl f
cltenieiit nnd activity. Tlie-e vvc in-
taut romlngH urd goings of fu p litl.-al
leaders between linwnlng spec 011 I t li.t
various (lovel iinienl ibpu tmciin Mr.
A'qiilth met several 1'iilonN Ii is ill
c'tHiiltntlon, Including lla'l 'ii'ion,
linl Robert Cecil and tae at of
Derby
Noticeable nbsentees fiom till" confer.
erne weie A J. Halfour, who Is til An-
and pains In the planning and prcjmra
Hon of meals offer the housekeeper the
best weapons to combat the high cost
of food. This wan the conclusion of the
SWISS REFUSE TO PROTEST.
(internment Decline tn Art
Alinlust llrlulnu Deportn t Ions.
Hkneva, via Paris. Dec. 5. The Swlsa
(iovernment has refused to consider the
copy or Ills iliscnarge papers. 11" if
ferred the Federal ofllcers to the War
Department for corroboration of this
statement.
IteKrettrd XrKlrrl of I'nmlly.
He spoke of his home life In Olovers
..111.. ....ii u..i,i 1u mice worked for a
glove manufacturer there. Ho referred J dietary committee which managed the
lo his brother and sisters at nome as 1 iwo "r'"llrl"
tlinush he regretted his neglect of them I good meals can be supplied for 40 cents
, all these years, but he didn't allow him- a day.
self to become sentimental. The experiment. In, which twelve em-
All this was contldo-J to the nfllcem on ployees of the Cltv Health Derailment
the Journey to New York. To the news-, partlclnated. ended to-iiay wil l a net
paper men he was ns close mouthed n 1 gain In weight of 4...... pounds. The
tho Iron Claw or any of those movie j cost of the dally menus averaged a trifle
mysteries. I "ver 30 cents
Ills captor hud Intended to lake him
1,"!" 1'" "'i'r' NEWSBOYS' STRIKE SPREADS.
of the t:lrenie Itlulit.
Lovpos;, Dec. 5. Michael Hodzlanko,
President of the Itu-slan Duma, re
signed mi account of being Insulted by
1 Mir mil Hill 1 ri ii.nu in. ii-i.... t ..vui .ji.m i.t, . i w ..w i.f,....
..er . uemrilliii? I.. . Iienier .lesi... i..). t ,,. i. 1.11 Ii v mieeessfti lv to I'heclt li.n Premier Hnllnm n dure shows "r in 100 iiiirrinion ine riemier
rctn
ztiinlj
giiiirn. i rmm now- on win oe epe.-nj . uj
When MarkofT explained that he whs ; of lluchaiest In order to make n snfe re
deliberately Insulting the Duma In the'tieat over this line of railroad toward ..
pi ron nf Its Piesldent because the Dutiia Moldavia
Top picture shows David Lloyd
i.. '....ii i .,i f,,r ii. it... George, who precipitated the crisis.
i :i...'i,n..u i.ee.. ..miKiviirliiir to I Middle nicture is that of Herbert dtew Honor Law, .1 Aipden fhainlicr-
r I S It'll un ill i 1 1 ii 1 1 1 in ik'iiik 1 1 is u 1 1 1-11 li i 11 hi in., i i-i ...... .!' ...... . . . 1 .111. .I.... I I
tlie Kxlreme Itlghtist lendei. (1. M. Mink-. save Hufliaiest from the enemy ineir , Henry Asquttrt. wflo Mas resigned as "'" '
iigrad. Maikoff inteirupte.'i M. Rod-! AiLtrn-'ileniians leadi to the assumption t Andrew' Bonar Law. leader of the !VPt hl,s ""I'l-'riers. Iiicliidlng Viscount
:,r. .-.in.i.r i,i, ;i di.i 1 1, ,. i .i . ..b . i . i. . i k. .1. lef enocer ii of t lie I tu mania ns ..! ..... rr i.u.n : -rey, Lewis II at court, Ldwln s.. Mon-
v " uiiiuiiiaia. uuw uucicu uic nciilick- ....... ,i.- i i.. . . .. ...... ...
MrKennu, Walter Itunclinan, Lord Itiic k.
..'master. It Samuel, 111. Htudiiig ami
I Arthui llendctsoii.
m a v . , is. mm i - ww I
111 a previous sitting had Insulted high I ' South of the capital Held Marshal I VU L V H 1 1 IVl H K 1 1 1 ,H
persomiges, M Ito.llilanUi linmedlately von MackiMiseu's Danubo army grail- J11J 11 U III Li IVUlili
left the Presidential chair, declaring lie ually Is edging closer and Hie wore. 01
had been Insulted not only ait President the heavy artillery Is becoming more
but as n 11111. destructive. The Rumanian Klrst Army,
un motion or v ice-rresinent 1 nunt opposing the Teutonic auvaiice irmn ioe
SOON FOR IRELAND
petition presented by the Cantonal Coun
ells of fiencvn, Vaud. Valals and Ncucha-, (h ' ,)lalform t,ey ilinnged their minds. 1
iAl nulfln.. ihn rtnvei'iitnen I tn iirntest tn 1 . .. . .......
tho fjnveinment to protest to . f ... . terminal, where llftv ' tmly t Town Papers Now Pur
iiiu uriiui.niiuii ...
tel, askln
fiVrmiiny against
civilians from Belgium and
France.
The Uoverniuent points nut that since
the war began it has received eighty
nine protests against alleged violations
of the law of nations, thirty-seven from
the Central Powers, forty-eight from the
Allies nnd four from one neutral state,
hnintile In Plttslinrn.
PlTTsni'RO, Pa., Dec, .". The strike of
.... . i.,... ..n.wn.iu .oar., ivnlttnir foe llie.n
i.orll. " e,A vin"im ... ... n i
"Orill,, ,.,,..- aiuimiinlnt the flaslillcM I
V. . " - ' newslwH which started last Saturday
the brim o hli tat mvn '"Rht " rrsuU of " ",om"io ln ,,,e
the brim or tils nat unwn. wholesale price of local newspapers, con-
' tlnued to spread to-day. Newsboys In
Sbncklrd tn Twn Officers.
' the. boroughs of Wllklusburg and other
He talkcd nloin, manacled to twn nf outlying districts Joined the strikers,
and explains that as It has been unable the ottlccrM. until ho reached n taxlcab. whlle'many cnrrjlns routes Im various
to Investigate each case adequately It is
icluctantly obliged lo refrain :rom
action.
BORDER GUARD HEALTH GOOD.
Virtually Half the lleds In Base
Hospitals Are Kiupl).
8an Antonio, Tex., Dec. fj. "Above
the average" was the summary of health
reports received to-day from 100,000
troops In Mexican border servlco by Col.
W. D, McCuw, chief surgeon of tho
outhern department. virtually -ne-
half of the beds In base hospitals are
empty. Tho army usually considers
33 1-3 per cent. 01 einpijr w-un
record.
Five base hospitals at Knu Antonio,
Kl Paso, Brownsville and Kngle l'ass,
Tex., and Nogales. Arli. 'reported less
than 2.500 beds occupied and slightly
mr than 2,000 beds empty.
GERMANS HAT JOIN GREEKS.
Capt arc of Avloaa Aimed At After
Baeaarest Palls.
INPON, Dec (Wednesday). A des.
natch to the Timet from Amsterdam
nuotrs a message from Sofia to tho effect
. .1 ........ 1 .. ......... . v. . rt
that Slier 1uwiiivv tn ihii iiiu v-vii
tral Powers will rapture Avlona In Al
banla, and join hands with Oreece.
ulvAVA BMACMID IN M HOttH
via Atlsntlo Cess -ins. Hit H'wsjr. se. I
li-T iiiifi --ffi lit 1 II a''-.-..n. ,
Ho was himtled down before Afcslstnnt narts of the city also quit,
Tllstrlrt Attorney Wood, who was wait-, tin the downtown stteets, only news
Ing In his olllce with a swarm of minor papers from other cities can bo pur
Federal ofllclals. Imjicetor Swain mo- chased. Strike leaders asserted to-night
Honed him to n seat opposite Wood and 1 that tho kale of papers throughout the
nahi: city would be completely tied up within
"Well. Charley, we're here." .1 few days.
And Charley, having permitted his face!
to appear again, vmlled In rather n bored
Hobrlnsky M. MarkofT was excluded
from the Duma for tlfteen sittings.
Another despatch from I'etiognul saya
that M. Iloilrlanko was reelected Presi
dent of the Duma by a vote, of rr
against 2G.
MEATLESS DAYS FOR ENGLAND.
Order Issued tu Limit Dinners tn
Three Courses,
Ijunpon, Dec. P.-- The Ilonrd of Trade
under the defence of the realm act has
west. Is said liv lieriin 10 nave uevn
decisively defeated on the Algechu The
Aiistro-i'.erniaii armies In the imithwest
are completing the enveloping process,
Turkish successes In engagements
with tho Russians were reported In the
Turkish headquarters statement, which
said that In Dobrudja there were cap
tured from the Russians one tank. 173
Inmates. Including six llrlllsh and six
other officers, one cannon and 250 men. J
Herman Mnteinent.
The Herman official statement telling
Mr. . mu I h Hxiilalns.
The meeting hiMed more tiai ail
1 hour and It Is supposed that Mr Asqtii'h
explained Hint he vv.is faced by almost
, Insuperable olc-tniles to the reconellla-
, Hon of tho conflicting lnteret, nnd In
tended to tender his relKiiatlnn Al
. . ,, ., ! mot Imnii dlately the Premier drove to
Ml' KllWlinl ( M'MHI iTopOM'S the palace and had an audience, with tho
I'lil'lilillli'lli fill' fill' Whole Of j V ims now remarked thnt when Mr Av
, . , , .,, . 1,.. I qlllth was asked In the House of Coin-
ISllllHl. NlVs. M IlloniCIP. itnons yesterday If n food dictator had
I lice 11 nppolnteil he replied slinrplv "t
" i don't like si food dictator."
Issued an order tn the effect that nfterlof the favorable progress or tne ,us
December Id no meal exceeding three tro-derinaii forces In Rumania follows
courses between fi P. M. and 9:30 1. M.I "Front of Arihdtike Joseph Renewed
or two courses at any other time may be Russian attacks on Capnl ami northeast
served In any hotel, restaurant or public of Dormi-Watra, and In the Putiia, Tro.
place. , tus nnd I'ztil valleys were without the
Tlie announcement ndils tn.it it is pro
posed to Issuo another order nt an early
dale foiblddlng both In public places nnd
pilvnte houses the consumption on cer
tJln days nf meat, poultry and game,
slightest success. Simultaneously (!er
mati nnd Austro-Iluiigarlau troops re
captured by storm nnd hand to hand
fighting a height position Inst during
i the preceding fighting, which was nn
Important one ror lis, After these en-
SUGAR SHORTAGE KILLS BABES, gagements, of which some were very
violent, then- lemaln.sl III our hands on ' pri puilional leprceent.itlies Flster
Lo.s-t.oN. Dec. ii ( Wediiiwlav ). The
loll" Cn-oiine to-day gives prominence
to the lollnvvlng article :
"I'laiiH have been niatuiiiK for dome
time for a settlement of the ltlsli ques
tion In the event of a ilovernment com
ln Into olllce In which Sir Kdwnrd Car
son sliouM be .1 pioinlnenl member. If
the scheme i-, cut led through It will be
the most dramatic event In Irish history.
"Sir IMvvanl C.unon, who no doubt got
the consent of Ills l'leter cnllcauueM for
Iho plan, pioposcs that a home rule Par-
1 i ........ t Klinnl.l lie eslilMUhi il r.ir Itie
whole of lielaml nnd that I'rot. M.uits ! ahead, with the npprov.il of tin. Ilnii-o
wiw.,,1,1 1 tiiewenteil no the h.0,1.. of or l ommons oniy, aiui urn m tne voters,
There Is much taUc to. night of His
possibilities nf 11 general election Mr.
Honar Law would tlrst form 11 Ciih net,
If he takes olllce, as It is necessary that
the ilovernment bo earned on, nnd llieti
appeal to the elei tors fur 11 1 atlth-ation
of his administration.
Oppotlllou In lllectlon.
Theie Is strong opposition, however,
to any political campaign, which must
necessarily illicit the cnuntr.v's eneiuiei
from the war work while It lastecl. nnd
the new (Iovernment may dei tdo I" go
The pait Llovd lieorge H playi'i
way and said :
"You bet we arc."
Deputy Marshal Howard ptoduced th
papers In tho case a warrant Issued by
Judge Kenesaw M. LnndlH In Chicago
permitting his extradition ns a material
witness and Assistant District Attorney
Wood, giving them one glance, returned
them and directed Marshal McCarthy of
this district to take charge, of the pris
oner. Just before he left the building Assist
ant District Attorney Wood said that ho
Is more thnn satisfied that Wax Is
"Oliver Ofborne,"
Identification Tests To-day.
Assistant District Attorney Samuel
Hershensteln, who has cooperated with
Mr. Wood In the Oliver Osborne tangle
for many months past, said last night
that tho prisoner to-dny will he con
fronted with the following persons:
Mrs. Malse Mnson Nye, Rose Helen
Kaiser and her mother, Katharine
Maxenhelmer; the nurse girl who
charges him with stealing 1300 from
her, Catharine Cauflald ; Florence Syra
cuse. May West, Blanche M. Unser. and
also Mr, nd Mrs. James W. Osborne
PUBLISHERS MEET PAPER CRISIS
(irrninny Incrrnsc Allowance to
Deerrnse the Vlortnllt).
LnN-poN, Dec. R. An Investigation
Into the Increasing Infant mortality In
Iterliu has established thnt the rlshiK
death rate Is due to an Insulllcleiit sugiir
Hie Verchdcbry soillli of Tartar Pass,
more than I'm men and llvo machine
giiui, and on Mount Nemlra, in tho
Noitheru (iltuz Valley, iljn prisoners
and eight machine guns
"Atmy group of Field Marshal an
M ickdiMMi The Ninth nimy. during the
allowance, according to an Amsterdam ! l,l"Ml1' ,"f 'he "',',,y' br"k" lll',r"l"
to
fs(bttied on F( Pr,
Prepare tn Present Sltnntlou
Federal Trade Commission.
Kansas Citt, Mo., Dec. C. Owners of
twenty-five Kansas dally newspapers,
who said they were confiontcd with the
danger nf being unable to obtain print
paper, met here to-dny and toolt steps
to meet the alleged crisis by delegating
Oeorgo W, Marble of the Fort Scott
Trlonne-.Uonlfor to present their case lo
the Federal Trade Commission In Wash
ington next Monday und also to make
the Kansas delegation In Congress ac
quainted with the facts of their extremity.
Publishers Discuss Crisis.
PlTTSBUBa, Dec, 5. Publishers
of
thirty-five dally newspapers In this sec
t on of the State at a meeting here to
day discussed the print paper situation
nud formed nn organisation which will
he known as the Publishers Association
of Western Pennsylvania, J, I.. Slew
art, owner of the Obssrcrr In Washing
ton, Pa., was elected president,
Itr. Brush's KamjM A holssoms drink
fur Hid sgtd and fesblt. Aditrtl$m4nt.
despatch to tho Ilxchc -t Telegraph
Company.
The despatch says Hut It has been
decided thnt each child born after De
cember 1 shall receive an iiddltlonnl half
pound monthly of sugar, the rations of
the test nf the population being piopor
tlonatcly reduied The iillowance up to
this tlmo has been 750 grammes monthly
for each baby.
GARDINER ESTATE TO FAMILY.
Children (irt llllIKrst Part nf f.'l,-
0.111, IKI-.ri- Left N. V. Wnman.
RivKRilgAp, Dec, S. There was filed
with the county surrogate to-day the
report of the proper Inheritance tax upon
the estate of Mrs, Sarah (lardlner of 3
Fust Klghty-sccond street, Manhattan.
and lallp, widow of David (lanllner. The
assessment Is 5147, HM. is I lie net es
tale amounted to $:i,0.r.C,3C2 r.3,
The principal bequests are 15,000 each
to Alexandra and Robert J, fiai diner,
grandchildren of the decedent, and VI,
31.1. 4M. 03 each to Robert A. Gardiner
of Fatsthnmpton, David 'I. fiurdloer of
liny Shore nnd Hai-.ili D. (lardlner of
liny snore, children of tne decedent.
mice or tne Hostile rearguards nmi
rossed Hie lluchaiest-Tergovlstea-l'c-
troslta lailroiid to the eastward.
in
included f ir the peiloil of three : ine crisis was o uinnsi, ....n,
inij j iiu. in.. .,i' .1' .
office while the I'leinni- coore'-ied sep
arately with the Libel. il and I'on-erva.
the members of the Cabinet
Mr. Lloyd lleorge's poll. bad sup
porters III both camps Ills stiongost
Liberal friend, Lord Rending carried
messages betwien the I'lemliri couo-
would hi
v.ais. after which ineie would he oi'por-
lunlty for 11 levislon
"One condition of the acceptance of
this scheme by the Nationalist party Is
that they ngiee to Hie extension of con
scription to lielaml It Is I'stlinaleil that
conscription, If applied to Ireland on the
same nasis as l ow preva s c tul Mr. Lloyd ( leorsc s de-
liiliain. woiiiii nring an aiiiiii o ii 1 i.e ,-, WRS Blti,..int , ,llll() i.n
nun men. a seiuenieni 01 uie irisn pi... , ... ........ 1 .... , .. f . 1-1 from at-
The Danube army, lifter tliu victory . lem nil these lines would, It Is expected, j tP,'uinR 'the Consirvatlves' meet ng with
nave a sooiniug iiniucoii. mi 11 ui-,,,,- j,r Asqilllh, and Ind Cury.nn hastened
lent in iiei.iiin nun iiiiiiin- in.- ""1 to report to iipn hi tne 1 oinniai ntncn
inioiiKiioui me muni, ..iniii.ii Ml 1 i imuieillalcly tho lonfcictico was ciuicd
gained on the lower Argechu against
numerically superior forces, followed the
retreating enemy In this sector. In the
victory mentioned the -ITtli Infantry
division took nn especially glorious part
"Tho left wing of the Danubo army
fought Its way beyond this sector. The
easterly wing. In the Danube lowlands,
sanguinarily repulsed Russian attacks
"The number of prisoners icported
yesterday hns Increased to U'.fiOO, To
the number captured by the Ninth army
n further 2,0on, and to that of tho Dan
ube army 2,rou men have been added.
The prisoners list mentioned belonged
to twenty-two Infantry nnd six artillery
regiments.
"In Dobrudja thero have been no
major engagements-,"
The Russian statement conceding the
continued advance of the Teuton forces
tow aid Uucharest leads:
"On the Moldavian frontier. In the
valley of the River Trotus and south lo
the alley of the River Dovtlan. engage,
nu-nts ais still proceeding. We again
Continued on tfft'oiiil Page,
would, of course, bo abolished,
In view of ii settlement of the Irish
question on these lines It Is piobable that
Surprised by qillt!i.
'"'"si , v Mr- Asqulth'a tetlrenieiit has taken
some members of the Nationalist l)!U' I thi. politic una so by sutprKe that they
won!. jolnaOoveiiimentof whlclMiavId '" I " n,y to predict the re.
Lloy.l (leorge was the Premier Wr !, ' ' Ml Mr M
ward (irsou wo nld, of course . ,,e a lead-1 ent to tcmaln In tho Cabinet
l.g ni.MHl.ei-of the overnii.ent lis , e- M , l)f
llmliiary n;llJlMiH.iW.. en ml In n I Is-1 Chancellor, In which it has
ciis o f this sul eel, hi view of the n considered ho might llnd a
possible reconstruction of the (K.iern-1 ,iertll, ,s discussed,
nient or of Mr hdvv.iid arson l,.sy, Saimler promotion fro,,, tho
a meu.ber of the ( aldnet. has , going ,.retaryshlp ' l Reginald Me.
on for soilie t hue between Lb yd i leo ge. I Kfm-H position at tho tre.if.iry Is alio
the jrlsh leaders nnd Mr L.hvatd Car- ,7re.li.-te.l. while ncceptanc. of tho ,cs
,on' iKiuitlons of Viscount ilrey and A ,1,
Halfour, which somo or the pa pet a
hacking Lloyd ileorgn urn ibinaiiding,
Is less likely under Honar Law s legmu
I : it nil Torpedoed Milp,
LoNPos-, Dee fi D. "1 Metaxas, who
has been appointed HieoK .Minister to
the I'nlted Slales, has been lauded it
Alexandria. Knypt, after being rescued
from a vessel which was torpedoed wlt'llc
on tho way from Mursellles to Athens,
than If l.lojd (leoign came mm power
The Labor p.uly termini) vvul hold :t
mom Imporliuit pail In any new Cabinet
than It hus been filling In the old,
The mora uuiealbuul London papa t
