BjssjpsjsjsjisjpsfsfspssfSEHW
j
, . &. .fcj.
vnpws;wiirvr' I
TFINANGIALEDITION"
vir ' ' '
STKAT
NIGHT '
ihttytt
NIGHT
lew
K "
o
VOL. III. NO. 72
PHILADELPHIA. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER G, 1916
CortuanT. 1018. it Tim rouo l.irott Commnt
PRICE ONE CENT
A itfRp .N
r i n d i Kiistk. mw
....... c
m
.TEUTONS PUSH
ON BUCHAREST
FROM 3 SIDES
Germans Aim to Cut Russo-
Rumanians' Only Lino
of Retreat
TAKE G000 MORE MEN
RusainnB Pierce Enemy's First
Line in Wooded Car
pathians nnni.iN. Dec 6
By ft series of new and powerful attacks
he Russians on tho eastern frontier of Ilu
mania succeeded In breaking through tho
nrMlno positions of the Austro-ncrmnns
at one point, tho Clerman- War OHIce ad
milted today
This reverse befell tho Teutons In tho sec
lor of tho Trotosul Vnlloy Tho Austro
Hermans fell bnek to fortified second-llnn
portions, whero tho Ilusslnns wero repulsed
f.lsewhere on tho long ltumanlnn b.ittle
llne tho Teutons wore successful, pushing
forward on threo sides of Ilucharc.
Austro-Hungarlan troops captured the
town of Hlnal last night Slnnt lies south
nf Tonosh Pass on the southern fringe of
the Transjtv anion Alps
North of Bucharest Von Mackenscn's
forces nro fighting their wny toward the
tlucharost-Plocscl-Klmplna llallroad This
la one of tho two railway axenues of retreat
open to the ltusso-Humanlan garrison In
Bucharest South of Bucharest tho Danube
army has driven the Ilusao-Ilumatilan forces
from tho towns they still held on tho south
ern bank of tho Afjeshu lllvcr.
The olllclnl report sajB that this army
Is "advancing toward Bucharest"
In southwestern Wallachla tho Rumanian
forces ore retreating In confusion.
The capture of more than 6000 additional
prisoners Is reported
The War Oftlcs statement says-
Army group of Archduke Josef
The Ilusslnns again attacked In the
wooded Carpathians north of Tartar
pass and four times In the Ludon
sector Ills fresh sacrifices brought tho
enemy no success The number of
prisoners taken by us In the favorable
engagement on tho Vcrchdebry has
been Increased to 275 Wo took also
five machine guns and four mine
throwers
In tho sector of Trotosul Valley
strong lluslan presiurc agsinst our
! most advanced llncvwni parried In pre-
viously prepared second, positions sit-
t gated in the rear nearby " " " "
Korlh of Olios pass we captured a
Ilusslan point of support Our losses
il were small Sixty prisoners remained
1 In our hands.
In the Hnsjcn valle, southeast of the
basin of Kezdlvarhel), a raid was car
ried out by Austro-Ucrinan troops and
a considerable portion of the Rumanian
line penetrated The raiders returned
with two officers, more than eighty men
and much ammunition
Army group of Held Marsha! von
Mackensen The ninth nrmy, victori
ously fighting Its way forward. Is ap
proaching tho Bucharest Ploescl
Klmplna railroad I'nder the Influenco
of this movement the enemy evacuated
positions north of Slnal which were
captured during the evening by Austro
Hungarlan troops
Tho arm of tho Danube has cleaned
out the towns on the south side of the
Arjcshu lllver ntlll held by tho iTOma
nlans and Is advancing toward Bucha
rest. lr
On the Danube Uussl.ui attacks from
the east were repulsed,
Herman and Austio - Hungarian
troops under Colonel Von Szlve are pur
suing. In touthweatern Wallachla. the
Rumanian forces that nro retreating
In complete confusion They forced the
enemy Into an engagement on the Alt
River. The enemy, whose passageway
on the east bank 1ms been blocked, lost
ieMerday IG officers, 1600- men and
four cannon. Resides this number more
than 4400 other Rumanians were cap
tured. On the railroad northwest of
Ilucharest considerable wheat stores
bought by the Ilngllsh Government
and labeled as such, fell Into ur hands.
In Dobrudja all Is calm.
SOriA. Dec 6.
A defeat has been Indicted upon the Ru
manians Air the Arjeshu River, southwest
of Bucharest, the Bulgarian War Office an
nounced today.
In Dobrudja there has been patrol fight
ing and artillery duels. Tho Russo-Ruma-nlan
forces In Dobrudja are entrenching
themselves and extending their barbed.wlro
entanglements.
Along the panube, near Tutrakan, there
has been machine-gun firing?.
Only artillery dueling and minor fight
Ing were reported from the Macedonian
front
PETROGRAD ADMITS
ADVANCE BY FOE
f. ! ,1- ,. . ,!.
TETROpiUD, Dec 6.
Continued German attacks,on Bucharest
from the north, made In tho direction of
Tergovlstea, in the Ploesd region and around
Dokaneshti, were successful, tho official
statement declared today. Because the
Rumanian front was pierced by this at-
rntlnotJ on Pats Two, Column One
THE WEATHER
FORECAST '
for Philadelphia and vicinity Pair to
night and Thursday; slightly colder to
night, vlth loicest about 35 degrees; mod
erate westerly tcinds becoming gentle and
turiaule.
UOT!( OF DAY
sunrises lotin llwn run 4 JO am
Sua sets 444 pm. I Moon souths 940 p.m.
DtMW.tnK BIVE8 TIOK CHUvuBS
C11K3TMT 6TUEET
HljUwiiw HUaj(HIt ur U44(t;
BMPATjgftB4T KAfll HHfJ
ARMY AVIATOR SENDS
WIRELESS 119 MILES
Cnptnln Culver, of Slfrnal Corps, Brents
Lonc-Diatnnce Record for Mes
, sages in Flight
WASHIN'OTON'. Dec Captain C C
Culver, of the nrmy aviation signal corps
today holds the world's record for long
distance sending of wlrele messages from
an aeroplane while In flight The War
Department announced that In recent trial
on the Pacific coast Captain Culver sent
nnd received messages 119 mile The pre
vious record Is believed to have been forty
right miles, recently established by a
French aviator
Captain Culver's record was made In n
rross-country flight from tajs Angeles In a
stock nrmy neroplane equipped with a 180
watt sending' machine While fljlng over
Santa Mnnlia, wireless messages were ex
changed with Dr It. O Shelton, an amateur
wireless operator, at San Diego. Cal , 119
miles nway.
In later trials Captain Culver. In a ma
chine piloted by Meutenant Herbert A
Dame, of San Diego, made the first known
succesiful attempt to send n wireless mes
sago to another aviator In flight The mes
sigo was received by Lieutenant William
A Robertson, of the San Diego aviation
trnlnlng school, while fllng In a machine
piloted by A D Salth Messages vvcro
transmitted while the machlnrs wero mora
than two miles apart and at an altitude of
approximately 1000 feet
KKOXPKINZ OFFICER DROWNS
Sailor Companion Rescued by Ameri
can Jnckics at League Island
Warrant Officer Illuerher. of the German
Interned commerco raider Kronprtnz Tried
rich Wllhclm. was drowned at tho Phila
delphia Navy Yard today when the high
wind capsized a small boat In which he nnd
a German sailor wero rowing
Sailors from tho United States battle
ship Minnesota, llng nearby, put "over a
boat nnd rescued tho sailor, but efforts to
savo Blucchcr failed Tho wind chopped
tho water Into big waves that made tho
ono rescue very difficult Uluecher and his
companion wero returning to the vessel
from n row and were passing under tho
stern when their boat upset. Tho body has
not been recovered.
J. LBAHY, MERCHANT,
DIES AT AGE OF NINETY
Head of Drygoods Firm for
Many Years Began Busi
, ness at Sixteen
NOTED .FORilOOD WORKS
JOSHUA L. DAILY
Joshua i Bally, one of the pioneer dry
goods merchants of this city and head of
Joshua U Rally & Co, died today at his
home, Ianguiro, at Ardmore, after a short
Illness '
Although he was ninety years old June
ST, Mr. Bally was still Industrious. Since he
was sixteen ears old he had been con
nected with the firm which he headed when
he died lie was a man of quiet bearing,
and although not of demonstrative nature,
he did much to aid others to success.
Until recently he took an active Inter
est In civic affairs and It was his ambition
to see Philadelphia make rapid forward
strides. Despite his interest in the city'
welfare, he could never be Induced to run
for otllce.
Tho funeral will be held Friday after
noon at J o'clock at the home (Interment
will be private.
Mr. Bally W" born '" Philadelphia
June ST, 18SS He was the son of Joshua
Continued on I'ne Two Tellium H?
SCORES HURT IN CRASH
OF NEW YORK "L" TRAINS
Passenger Pulls Emergency Cord,
Causing Rear-End Smash Many
- Injured in Panic
NKW XORK, Dec. 6 Seven person
were Injured and scores were bruised and
slightly hur tda' ln ,ne crah of two
crowded wuthbund elevated trains at
106th street and Third avenue Both trains
were fllUd w'th workers Including many
women awl S'rl ana a "anlc '"wJ the
collision A majority of those hurt were
cut by flying g'aM or were trampled on In
the ruxh fo "It
An unldenttfltd person la held responsible
tor uae wek. T& iwotorraan of tfee first
skSB & sW m
w
v r
bimimiimtmmmiiatmmmmmimmtmiwmtmaM$mmmsTmmm
HOWARD KERRY
BERRY, PENN HERO,
FACES ARMY TRIAL
Football Star Has Been
"Cutting" Drill Work
at Armory
DECLARES HE'S TOO BUSY
J Hownrd Berry, tho football slnr. dug
trenches at tho border nnd curried horpes,
but drilling In an nrmory does not appeal
to him
And now the strenuoun fullback who
dragged Penn from football obscurlt lias
ono more battlo to face.
This tlmo the foes will not be on the grid-
iron or on uie aii-au.iu ii. - '2J
"Flrst'Reglment In which the feartesTfintrctSr
marched to tho front.
The young dynamo, ns Iip has been ctirls
tened, has not yet reported for drill since
ho returned from tho border. He cant
see It. The Plrst Regiment, especially
Captain It. P Helsier, wants to know why
Matters have reached n serious stage In
fact If tho vouthful Penn warrior fails to
report for drill next Tuesday night ii gunrd
will bo sent to liH homo nnd ho will be
brought before a summary court presided
over by tho lieutenant colonel. All of
which didn't make tho brown-eyed Berry
quiver an eclash when lie heard it this
nfternoon
NO MIMIC riClIITINO
Berry didn't figure on tho trouble It would
cost to be ft patriot when ho signed up
with VnUe Sam for tho big gumo against
Mexico
Hveribodi knows that the gridlion hero
likes real fighting There's no thrill In
tha drill for this )outh so lrlle. nnd he
longs for the tight whoru enrriry'H might
The athlete pals at Penn agree that ho has
a good reason for forgetting the drill nights.
Berry's Jaw squared today when he was
questioned about It
"I work day and night." he said "I
don't get nny chance to do inuili dreaming
I got a very port note from Captain Hels
ier. Ho said V,at ' ml",t l0mn l0 lrl"
It was kind of an Informal military letter
Tho Captain said he dldn t sen why I
t'ontlnurd on I'ute Two, Column Two
GERMANS SINK SHIP
FLYING FRENCH FLAG
John Lnmbert, Formerly Ameri
can Vessel, Torpedoed in
the EmjHsh Channel
Ni:V YORK. tc 6 American members
of' the crew of the former American l.nke
teatnshlp John Lan)brt barely eecaptd
'th their live when a Uermau submarine
ui.U the -vel in the UnglUli Channel on
November :;. without warning, they said
.. i,, i hoi- arrived here today, on tha
French liner Kpagne The vessel had bnJ
sold by Its American owners io ne rrencu
lino- and was belag delivered to 'Havre
when the attack topk place She flew the
French Half- according to the crew. It
sailed from Montreal, October !0.
The attack on the Lambert, they said,
took place at 1 0 n ro . about iwonty.tlve
miles south of the Isle of Wight
The Lambert was preceding leisurely
when attacked, according to the members
of her crew The first ot from the sub.
marine struck the bridge and shattered IL
Without waiting- for further shots, thj)
lifeboats were hurriedly towered and the
crew of twenty-two pulld away While
they were rowing away from the vessel, the
submarine continued shelling It until It was
In a sinking condition.
After rowlnff for IS hours, the men In the
lifeboats headed for the French coast, four
miles nwayt
To Aid Search for Paralysis Germ
WASHINGTON Pe 6 Dr A M Stira
goe assistant director of the Hygienic lab
oratory, has been assigned by the Publico
llealtb Service to collaborate with pajsl-
olaus at UueAMtar uiiu. wo idwk inj
ks.V4 JWeVM T W"" FM eW!
HP '"WHi't'lH mw JMt w
KING SUMMONS
LLOYD GEORGE;
LAW DECLINES
Ascendancy of W a r
Minister to Premier
ship Seems Certain ,
ULTIMATUM FORCED
ASQUITII TO RESIGN
Readjustment of Political
Alignments Throws
Britain Into Turmoil
FIRMER WAR POLICY SURE
Reconstruction Compelled by
Populnr Dissatisfaction
With Weak Methods
PARIS, Dec. C Dispatches from
Pnrin quote political writers ns aayinff
Hint the political upheavals may be
followed by the resignation of General
Joffre. commander-in-chief of the Al
lied armies.
LONDON, Dec 6
Announcement of tho appointment nnd
nccep'anco by David l,ln)il Oeorge to form
a new Ilrltlih Mlnltr was eipected inn.
mentarlly this afternoon
The War Mlnlnttr was oummoned to
Buckingham 'Palace by King Oeorgo this
nfternoon Immediately nftcr tho King had
held n half hour's conference with Andrew
Uonur l.iw, who deillned to nceept the
premiership
t.lojd Oeorge's visit to tho lojal p.iHre
nlso follow i-il a conference between the War
Minister nnd Bonar I.aw.
, It was shortly before 3 o'clock when
l.lojd Oeorge motored to llurkinghnm
Palace
It was officially 'stated that llonnr Law
formally Informr,! the King that ho would
not nttempt to form a new Cabinet
King Oeorge late this afternoon sum
moned coalition Cabinet members In coun
cil nt Buckingham Palace. Inviting them
to discuss the present situation
POLITICAL, POT BOILS
Bonar Law. l.lojd George, Klist Lord of
the Admiralty Balfour and Minister of
Jitiislonvntiiir-iU()iHlrrson" -vreri the first
Ministers to arrive
Later Sir Aequlth Joined the .conference
The day wbh full of conferences between
members of tho retiring MInlstfv Former
PremUr Asqulth was vlslle.l by sir John
A Simon, a member of tho old Liberal Cabi
net, from which Asqulth a ear ngo formed
tho now dissolved coalition Ministry; Her
bert L Samuel, Secretary of State for Homo
Affairs In tho coalition Cabinet, and Arthur
Henderson. Minister of Pensions In the late
Cabinet and the onl Lnborlto represented
thereon
In addition to the ilenlnl from Sir i:d
ward rarson that nnj plan was nfoot where.
hj Ireland woiihl be granted homo rulo In
exchango for acceptance nf conscription
John Redmond. IrlBh Nationalist leader, also
registered disavowal of any sued proceeding
Tho Westmlnstir Oazetle Issued mi extra
today staftng dellnllel) that Law hud do
c lined the Iciidereil oit
The apparent fin il ami definite decision of
Bonur Law- declining to accept the premier,
ship and form n new British Cabinet .h
consulted M menu that !ai l.lovd Oeorga
will be called on to perform the task.
There Is little doubt that Lloyd Oeorge
will accept and bo the next British Prime
Minister.
I'AUBK OK ASQUITII DHBACLH
Premier Asqulth's fall was duo to public
opinion, not to polltkul intrigue, Is the
t untlncett on I'use Nil, Column Tito
HOUSE ASKED TO FORCE
PEACE .UPON EUROPE
Law Proposed Cutting 00" All
Financial and Commercial
Relations
'WASHINGTON Dec 6 A plan to force
peace in Kurope by threatening to cut off
American financial and commercial connec
tion from the warring nations was proposed
In the House today by Representative Llnd
burgh of Minnesota
After reciting the horrors of the Euro
pean war and tho difficulties which war
conditions have imposed on the American
people Lindburgh's resolution provides
That the Committee on Foreign Re.
lallons and the Committee on Foreign
Affairs respectlvel. of the Senate and
House be required Immediately to In
vite the President to allow an imme.
dlate conference with him, to formulate
plans to bring, about peaco negotia
tion among the nations at war, and,
In the event of failure to secure speedy
aollon to end existing wais, nd com
mittee report back forthwith to the
Senate and House, respectively, tmcli
failure, that Congress may (hen pro
ceed to Inaugurate an Industrial plan
for ther egulatlon of the commerce ami
business among the people of thla na
tion on such a basin that the people
will not. by force of the existing dr
eumitancei. be longer made to cen
tribute to the expenses of carrying on
the Inhuman and senseless wars now
raging
Tha revolution was referred to th; House
foreign affairs committee
" V
Hun Over by Auto, Dies
Samuel Itellly sljty-flve year old of
J4JI Old York road, dUd last night in the
Samaritan Hospital of injuries received oa
toturday sight when be was irn of by
jta autawafeiU t Hrul and UtttuiA iJMMi
. .: . j i.. k... -em mm "i-.t
Yriy vr? t m, !f jHillW,
QUICK
RECOUNT EXPECTED IN OHIO
COIiUMBXIS, 0 Dec. 0. Scctctnty of Stntc Hlltlcbrruitlt tottfty
rlrett election lionuls In the clghty-clght Ohio ctuintlcs to hold the
ballots of the Inst election nml inquire for n iccttuiit. This la taken
to lncllcntc thnt llcpubllcnns will contest the npimtcnt defent of Gov
ernor Wlllln, Hcpubllcnn, by Jntncs M. Cox, Denioctnt by 0000 votes.
OHIO TOWN THREATENED BY BIG FIRE
CONNKLLSVILLK. l'.., Dec. 0. 1'ire which hns been tngtlis
since noon threatens to tlc&ttoy the town of Ohloplyc, twenty tnlnutcs
catt of hcic. The flnntcu, which stnitcd In n (rtoiciy, rue beyond local
contiol. Assistance was fotwntded ftoiu here on a special train.
LLOYD GEORGE GIVES KNOCKOUT
TO MEDIOCRITIES NORTHCL1FFE
Ily LOUD NOKTHCLll'TK
opvivhl. lilt, fcu lie t ullfil J'rrn, ( uptrijfitr I n the Mrpnrtmeiif of Agriculture.
Offniiii rdttnifd
TLOYD GEORGE has given the knockout to the gang of aged
or inept mediocrities who have prevented the British Empire
from exerting its full force in the war. Whatever happens, these
malovolenls cannot get together agnin. Whatever Government
LOW) NORTHCLIFKE
WILL DIRECT WILSON'S SECOND INAUGURAL
WAHtllNOTON. IJcp C -Itobert N Harper, banker and prominent Washington
Democrat, will lio chairman of tho eninmlttcn to urrangp PicHldcnt Wilson's necoml
InniiKiiral formal announcement Is 'pcoted tomorrow. Chairman Vnnco Mc
cormick, nf tho Democratic campaign rommltten, will lie in Wnshlnritou tomonow
to confer with the President on tho clotnIN of tho ceremonj.
WORKERS IN MANY PLANTS GET HIGHER WAGES
Kfnplojcs of tho CIiIciiku lirlilgo and Iron Works at Shainn, Pa, havo boon
granted an Increnso of 10 per cent In wanes. Moio than 1000 men nro affected. The
Lehigh Col.e Company nnnntincca nn lucicaso of 10 per cent In wages. All tho
cotton mills In rayottovillr, X C. have announccil an nilvauco of 10 per cent In
tho wages of cniiloes. Tho folliiwinK companies numiutu-e Hpeelnl distributions in
tho form of bonuses on the veurly Haliuios of employes. 'Vestoin Union ToleKrnpli
Company, rt and 7 pel cent, .Mctropolltnn Klcetrlc .Maiiiifa.ettiiliiK t'ompatiy. Now
York, 10 por lent, paper mills In western Massachusetts, 10 per cent, affecting
nooo men
UNIDENTIFIED MAN FOUND DEAD ON ASH HEAP
An tiulilviitlnetl man, about Ut cai.s old, wius foiinil (lend nn mm ash dump
at Tenth ulieet uml Wiislilnglou avenuo bv twit piilh einen of tho l-'ourtli nil eel
nnd Stoker avenuu Htatlon. Tho boil was tultcii to the Methodist llosiltal nml
tho physicians nt tho hospital sild death vviih duo to exposure. The man hail h.
blacl.sinltu'il knlfo In one of his pockets Mo liail un lvvi pulrn of ttotiHcrH nml two
coats. His bod was tulien to the morgue.
BRYAN GUEST AT THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON, Dec fi - William .IoiiiiIiikh llryan was wc-leomed lulu the White
llouso today foi tho first time slmo ho resigned as ,Seeietar of Slate In Picsldeiit
Wilson's Cabinet. Willi Jim lltvan, tliu former .Secretary was a guest nf President
Wllbun ul luncliton.
CONGRESS AWAITS PRESIDENT'S WORD ON FOOD PRICE
WASHINGTON. Dee. 0 Action h t'oiiKiess on nnj food prlco legislation will
awult the rerommcinlatlon of President Wilson anil his Cabinet. Tills plan, It was
stuteil today on best authority, lias the approval anil will net every ounco of uup
pint of Democratic Huuso mid .Senate lemleis The Piesiileiit will confer tills
evening with Chutrmaii Heni), of the IIouho UuIuh Commlltee, relutlvp to cloarliiK
the truck- us rapidly as possible for tho railroad legislation In order to nmke room
foi the foodstuffs discussion luter.
CASE OF "MASTER SPY" POSTPONED TO MARCH 10
WASHINGTON. Dee. C Hi.nliiK of the blackmail oharges against Dr. Arm
KuanI Carl Grave, "maBtcr spy," today was postponed until Mouh 10 because or
the Government's lnulilit to pi event testimony of Prince lfatzfeldt, counselor of
the Germany ISmbuwrj. and Dr. l-'riedilcii Wllhclm Kdler, private secretary to
Ambassador -von Hernstorff.
MOTION-PICTURE OPERATOR ACCUSED OF FRAUDS
United States postal Inspectors ate looking for Walter Lowcnhaupt, an alleged
bogus motion picture ppeiator, who dUappeuiecl after opening olllces at 1414 South
Penn Square and leaving note for 12000 which tho holders say they cannot collect,
The accusers In the cane, which will bo brought beforo the l-'dral Grand Jury to
day, are Klwood SteNutt, -134 North Holly sliest, KrocI Wererman, 1126 Vine street,
and X'reil Kshroder, 136 Westminster street, Gloucester Clly, N. J Schroder alleges
that Lowenhtiupt gave him worthles note In exchange for 1776, and McNutt
bo) 8 lie lost 9710. I-Qwenhaupt sold each of them one-third Interest In a motion
picture house at 2S0S Federal street, Camden, ufter advertising In the newspapers.
CASHIER GIVES UP ALL TO REPAY RANK'S LOSS
CIIAMUKRHOUlta, Pa.. Dec. 6. Knoa D. Myecs, the thirty-one.yeavjld cashier
of the Lemayter National Hank, which closet! Its doom yesterday, hasgono into
voluntary UunUruptoy and will turn over about JM.OOQ to the bank liTan effort
to save the directors and depositors The directors remain loyal to their cushler
and slate that they will assume the entire lo In un effort to save Myers rom,
criminal prosecution The directorate is made up mostly of Itlver Brethren, who
are opposed to any legal proceedings.
DIAZ IN GUATEMALA; PREPARING TO INVADE MEXICO
WASHINGTON, Pe. 6 Secretary o Bute JiwJhk iWWu.njfJ tpdgy that
MSgfeaiJawBd matt, tit fuuwt yflm kit MmmMSi&l
lea and .UH a mtimmMlm. ' -' , ' "
NEWS
arises cannot but be an immense
improvement on that which has
disappeared.
Lloyd George is one of the few
British statesmen who undex
stand the United States, and I
look for good isolations between
Great Britain nnd the Republic
as a result of his forceful action
of yesterday.
Lord NorthelifTo is HnRlnnd's fore
most newspaper publisher and one of
the .strongest (iRiites in British public
life nnd tho man who, through constant
Iteration in his newspapers of the de
mand for greater unity, aggressiveness,
efficiency and force in England's con
duct ot tho war, really was responsible
for the shnkc-up in the British Cabinet.
Previous to tho announcement of Bonar
Law's declination, Lord NorthelifTo
.said Law wus rt safe man nnd if ho be
came I'rlmo Minister he would bo the
"first Cnnadina to achieve an honor
equal in dignity nnd importance to
your President."
WOOD REFUSES'
TO PAY $40,000
IN COPS' CLAIMS
T3. .:.. TVT..J..... 1 TT..J 'T fi
clares He Will Sue Co
worker in Scheme
GO AHEAD, SAYS WH1TELBY
"Snntn" Mny Lose ?38,400, Malt
ing a Mere $50,000 on -Police
l,)ndon D. Wood, president ot the Pen
sion Mutual Life lnsuranco Company, nnd
Colonel Seth II. Whtteley spent moat of
today hurllnK charges at each other, for
slnco the exposure of their connection with
the police lnsuranco scandal they have boon
active enemies, nnd nothing like the Instir
nnco president, nnd lnsuranco agent work
lng together, ns formerly,
Mr. Wood announced with emphasis ttmt
ho would -suo Colonel Whlteley, nnd the
Colonel replied with dertnnco that he did
not caro nnd "to go ahead nnd sue."
Llut tho hardest blow of alt camo this aft
ernoon. when Mr. Wood sold he would not
pay nnothcr death clnlm on tho arrange- ",
ment or Colonel Whltclcy's between wood'i
liinurnnco compiny nnd tho Police Benefi
ciary Association, by which (ho colonel got
12100 when a policeman died nnd the nts'o
elntlOn got (100
Thcro are. It Is figured, sixteen death
claims unpaid '
i no rouce iienencinry Association joses
J1G00 "philanthropic" money.
MAV I.OSD (38.400
Colonel Whltciey Is nut nn even JS8.100.
Colonel Whllclcy could not be reached to
icply to this ultimatum from Mr Wood.
Ills profits thus far have bocn scarcely
J&0.000 on nn original Investment of a bare
tcntli of tint nmoiint. What he will, say
when ho linnwa ho will not get tho (38,400
coming to him It problematical If lis cot
this lie would bo ahead almost S90.Q0O. " ,
Mr. Wooil said early today that he would
sue Colonel Whltciey, nlso John J. McCtty
nnd Illrnm Ilorter, Jr., officers of the Folio
llnnellclary Association.
Ho iald ha would chargo that more than
HO, 000 of tho (127,000 hla company had
paid out In death ilnlms on policemen had
beon claimed by fraud.
Tho sullH were to havo been brought x
Comtnn.n. Pleas Qoprtjlhls morning. , ,TJi?y
unci not ucen urougni nc i -ou, nnu air.
Wood then said It might not come off Until jJ
tomorrow. ' - '(
McCAT NOT Al'ItAID " "r
Socrctnry McCay said :
"f.ct Wood suo me. I have nothing Jo ?
fear. We were In no conspiracy to defraud ,
Mr. Wood or his company. Should he
bring a suit we will tight, and, as a mat
ter of fact, vvo would welcome a suit so sm
that all tno lacis in mis cuso nuum iuui
out"
Wlilteley laughed at Wood's threat
...i- i ,i...f i. uiia hin It, till linn.
vuuun unt. v -' ' - -- ....- m
sense." nnld Whlteley -vviiy uoesni ne
suo? 1 am ready for nny legal (battle.
n-h.r.. tiMi-r existed any cousplraoy be- C3
tvveen mjself nnd tho ollleera of tho Police
Ileneflcinry Association or any one else to
Continued on fate Two, Column Hht
M'ADOO JOINS WAR
ON "DOPE" EVIL
Secretary Emphasizes Need
of Amending the Har
rison Act
FIGHT TO STOP ABUSER
Ily a Staff CarrtiBoadtHt
WAHIIINOTON, Dec. Secretary0
Adoo has Joined the uatlon-wlde fight for
remedy of the evils ailslng from the abuse
of imrcotlc drugs. This campaign, In which,
the KvKNiNa I.uixjuu was a leader anions
the country's great newspapers, lias aroused
ttie nation to tha necessity for stringent
legislation, both Htate and national, to curb
the growing use of "dope " nnd it Is sig
nificant that the secretary. In his annual
report of the Treasury Department, urge
additional Federal legislation to this end.
In his review of the operation of tha
Harrison drug act, submlttvd to CqngnsM
loduy us (art or his annual report, MMif.
Adoo einphasUes tho need for amcpdtorV.
laws . .
iitress Is laid upon the necessity; of
tux on drugs, for the registering of ths
engaged In dispensing them and for tha
refusal of registration to uli except Hm
legally engaged In selling, dispensing, ad
ministering or prescribing tha drugs.
The full report of the Secretary regard"
Ing the narcotic law follows
"At the etose c;f the nca year cadtd
June 30. 1916, the act of December IT, W,
known as the Harrison narcottp law. H'-i
been Jn effect sUn months, ued eHM.
tlons of the pperatlen of the law durinjrlte
period have given the administratis
Oecrs of the department a better t a
the conditions which the act apiMHWly
was intended to remedy, end also uf st
erol serleus defects In the law as4 t
urgent used of remedial legislation.
The results of the enforcement ojf Ut'.s
nt for the twelve mootha eiMJtd Jus
isi eaavbastse the h4 for u'.H&tf0m
UgUaattau. nnd ' ttw view M
iumm um mmm w i',
. ti
ia im -
5jm4. im as mmm--1-
SLuST
MF.
imkm-
lOTJST Kt.3asygyaHi9BggT CW
vfflrtt befun it
I
&mim, - if , i
,'' - -i -- ' - - !
AbftAsjJHBPdsr kSBBBBBslft
-- w.8(SHtt. . . -.
