THE ARIZONA REIWBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
n'H'VVTV CleMM'VrpiT VIM!)
10 PAGES
, PIIUjl..ZONA, WEDNESDAY MOHNIXU, DECEMBER G, 1910
10 PAGES
1 llljll-OliV JjilU 1J1IV
VOL. XXVII., NO. 201
ON
SaLEDIlfflfflM!
D
if BUCKEYE
BANE
PRESIDENT PLACED FACE TO
FACE WITH SUFFRAGE BANNER
WHILE ADDRESSING CONGRESS
HEN'S COUP AND DRAWN OUT
DEMONSTRATION ARE FEATURES
Of OPENING DAK OF CONGRESS
Republican A. P. Lased Wire
WASHINGTON, lec. 5. President
"Wilson's address to congress today
van marked ly a woman's suffrage
coup in the galleries the first real
show if organized militancy in t he cap
i!al and ly a great demonstration (if
congratulations to the president upon
Ins re-election in whi. h many republi
cans joined with the democrats.
After acknowledging the prolonged
cheers and applause which greeted hi
entry to the hall of the house, the pres
ident launched into his address, re
viewing recommendations for railroad
legislation, a corrupt practices act, and
had passed to tiis recommendations for
a broader government for Porto Bieo.
lie was just about to begin a sentence:
"The present laws governing the
islands and regulating the rights and
privileges of its people are not Just."
w hen over the rail of the nailery, where
sat a party of woman suffrage leaders,
there fluttered down above the heads
of an amazed assemblage of senators
and representative a silken banner of
suffrage yellow, hearing in great black
letters theinsciiptiun :
"1'resident Wilson, what will you do
for woman suffrage?"
The suffragists said afterward it was
their protest against the president's
plea with congress for broader suffrage
for the men of Porto Rico while he did
not mention their own cause in his ad
d ress. .
As the banner rippled down, the suf
fragists sat smiling and unperturbed,
watching the effect. A diminutive
page, raised on the arms of men di
rectly under the gallery, grained th
edge of the banner and snatched it
down. President Wilson, attracted by
the stir, looked up from his reading and
apparently taking in the situation at a
glance, smiled broadly and without
hesitation or interruption turned his
eves back to his manuscript and con
tinued his address to its end without
further demonstration.
policemen and gallery guards scur
ried to where the women were seated,
but contented themselves with watch
ing the party, as if to prevent further
outbreak.
When the joint session was over the
suffragists filed out unmolested by the
police, who said they had no orders
other than to prevent any further in
fringement of the rules of the house.
The banner remained a trophy with
the sergeant at arms. ,
As it turned out. the women had their
plans laid with precision and sprung
their coup almost on the second. Kvi-d'-ntly
in possession of an advance
copy of the president's address, they
had timed the document at the seed
they expected he would read, and anti
cipated he would, reach the Porto Kico
section in eight minutes.
Miss Mabel Vernon, of Nevada, who
heckled the president here at his Amer
ican Federation of Labor speech last
July and who smuggled the banner into
the house gallery under her coat today,
kept time and gave the signal for the
unfurling of the banner.
Before the police could get to the gal
lery the suffragists' press agent was
busy handing out "canned" reports of
the affair replete in detail, giving the
names of the militants rid interviews
with each.
The concensus of their opinion was
summed up by Mis. Abby Scott Baker,
of the Congressional Union, who de
clared the incident was "expressive of
the Indignation that women feel at the
Reoutlican A. P.. Leased Wire ,
WASHINGTON, Dec. 5. Corrupt.,
practice legislation, the Owen hill to
limit expenditures by any political
patty for election "f president and vice!
president to $400,000. and further to re-1
strict expenditures for election of sen
ators and representatives, was made
today the unfinished business of the
senate. Senator Owen, who made the
motion, said he would press the bill at
every possible opportunity. The Okla
homa senator referred to promises of
co-operation given by republican sen
si tors just before adjournment last
September when a futile effoit was
made to pass the bill. He called upon
these senators to make good their
words, declaring that "no republican
can permit a condition to endure which
permits the highest legislative and ex
ecutive powers of the people to be con
trolled by the sordid use of money cm
a large scale." - -
.Senator Penrose Introduced as an
amendment to the Owen bill the old
"J'Virce bill," defeated 20 years ago,
which would give supervision of elec
tions to the federal government and
jirevent disfranchisement of negroes In
the southern states.. The amendment
was ordered rend and must be
voted on before disposition of the cor
rupt practices measure.
Efforts to bring about closure of de
bate In the senate were revived eurly
SENATOR 01N INTRODUCES RILL
TO LIMIT BIG CAMPAIGN FUNDS
stupid and senseless opposition to
graining their right of self government ,
to one-half of the people of the I'nited
States."
Tre ten women who participated in
the coup marched off. acclaimed hero
ines, to Congressional I'nlon head-,
quarters, where they held a reception.
Miss Mabel Vernon, of Nevada: Dr.!
Caroline L. spencer, of Colorado; .Mrsl
Florence La.eld Hilles. of Delaware;!1
Mrs. John Kodgcrs. of New York; Mrs. I
Anna Lowenburg. of Pennsylvania: I
Mrs. Bessie H. Hapandre and Miss'
Maud Gilbert, of California; Mrs. . U
Colt, of New York; Miss I.ucy Burns,
of the Congressional I'nion. and Mrs.
Townsend Scott, of Maryland, com
posed the suffrage party. The first
five held the banner and the latter five
acted us guards, prepared to resist In
terference. The women had carried on
their preparations so carefully, how
ever, that none of the hundreds of spec
tators surrounding tnem had any ink
ling of their plans.
The coup, say the suffragists, worked
well enough to suit them, even if it
failed to draw any acknowledgement
and they plan something more startling
the next time. Everybody around the
Congressional I'nion who had anything
lo do with it was keen lor another.
"It was a most excellent demonstra
tion." said Chairman Alice Paul, smil
ing happdv. 'Certainly, we may tn the;
future adopt various methods not dis- J
: imilar from the one used today to keep j
congress reminded of our cause."
Miss Lucy Burns declared the suf- .
frage question was the only one before'
congress today when President Wilson
finished reading his address. t
"When he finished." she said, "thej
senators and representatives of the
floor turned toward us and muttered!
the one word, 'suffragists' no one said I
'Adamson law' or 'Porto Kico.' We feel
that we did our duty and we never!
should have forgiven ourselves had we I
overloked it."
Other members smiled while Miss;
liurns and Miss Paul talked and all'
were anxious to know what impression
they had made. f
"Has the White House issued any
statement about it?" chorused a dozen
or more. I
The White House had not, and there
, (Continued on Page Two) I
PRES. WILSON'S MESSAGED
Gentlemen of the Congress:
In fulfilling at this time the duty
laid uiMin me by the constitution of
communicating to you from tiem to
time Information of the state of the
union and recommending to your
consideration suc h legislative meas-1
urcs as may be judged necessary and
expedient 1 shall continue the prac
tice, which I hope hi.s been acceptable
fo vuu, of leaving to the reports of
the' several heads of the executive
departments the elaboration of the
detailed needs of the public service
and confine mv'self to those matters
of more general public xillcy with
which It seems necessary and feaslole
to deal at the present session of the
congress.
I realize the limitations of time un
der which you will necessarily act at
In the day, Senator Hoke Smith Intro-J
ducing an amendment to the rules
which would close debate on any meas
ure by a two-thirds vote on petition by
sixteen senators. Champions of cor
rupt practices measures said the main
purpose in pushing this amendment was
to assure an opportunity for voting on
the Owen bill before adjournment next
March.
Senator Owen had ready today but
did not Introduce his resolution to pro
vide for Investigation of the use of
money and attempt to Influence the re
sult of the November elections.
Baker and Scott to Make
Trip on Mexican Border
Republican A. P. e&ed Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 6. Secretary
Baker and Major General Scott, chief
of staff of the army, are considering a
trip to the Mexican border to inspect
the troops there, and discuss future
military plans with Generals Funston
i pd Pershing. Re ports were circulated
that they would start within ten days,
but Mr. Baker declared tonight that no
MURDERERS CONFESS
G KOUf 1 RTO W N. Tex.. Dec. 5
; Two confessions ill the murder of
i Frank R. McLauren, wealthy eitl
j sscn of Taylor, Texas, have been ob
; tauied, It was announced here to
I night by Sheriff Lee Alien and
j I .uke Munkin, county attorney.
They refused to discuss the state
' mint further.
Mcljiuren's divorced wife. Mrs.
j Carrie McLauren, their son, Calvin
.1. McLauren: the nephew of the
i woman, Harry Mctiride, and a ne-
gro farm hand, Jim Pollard, lire
held In the county jail here after
i waiving preliminary hearings tn-
day on vyarrants chsrging them
with the murder of M' liuren.
j Md-auren whs found dead under
, the wreckage of his automobile on
: the morning of November Js. The
me j
-I
i bodv had been burned almost be
yond recognition.
-
AS TO STATUS
Pepuhtiran A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. ;". A prelim
inary reply from Germany to the re
quest for Information concerning the
sinking of the British liner Arabia wns
cabled to the state department today
by the American embassy at lierlln. It
suld a submarine commander had re
ported attacking the ship believing her
to h an armed trmirport, 2nd uskcel
that the I'nitnd States Inform tne im
perial government of any evidence it
might have about the incident and the
character of the vessel.
Secretary Lansing declined to com
ment upon the communication further
than to say that it added nothing to
the information in the hands of the
department It Is understood that the
German request would be complied
cvith. A similar situation exists in re
gard to the case of the British horse
ship Marina, on which six American
horse tenders lost their lives, and the
character of which is In dispute.
A review of facts concerning Ger
many's recent submarine activities is
in the hands of 1'resident Wilson and
action on any of these cases at issue
await word from him. In the mean
time officials of the state department
are more than ordinarily reticent about
(Continued on Page Two)
this session, and shall make my sug
gestions ns few as possible: but there
were sonic things left undone at the
last session which there will now be
time lo complete and which It seems
necessary In the interest of the public
lo do at once.
In the first place. It seems to me
imperatively necessary that the ear
liest iHissible consideration and action
rhinild be accorded the remaining
measures of the program of set
tlement and regulailon which I had
occasion to recommend to you at the
close of your last session in view of
the public dawieis disclosed by the
unaccommodated difficulties which
then existed, and which still urihap
pilv continue to exist. Iietween the
railroads of the country and their
locomotive engineers, conductors, and
trainmen.
1 liien recommended:
Railroad Legislation
First, immediate provision for the
enlargement asul administrative re
organization of the Interstate Com
merce Commission along the lines
embodied In the bill recently passed
bv the house of representatives and
now awaiting action bv the senate:
in order that the commission may bo
enabled to deal with the many great
and various duties now devolving
upon It with a promptness and thor
oughness which are. with its present
constitution and means of action,
practically Impossible.
Second, the establishment of an
eight-hour day as the legal basis
alike of work and- of wages in the
employment of all railway employes
who are actually engaged in the work
of operating truina In interstate trans
portation. Third, the authorization of the ap
pointment by the president of a small
body of men to observe the actual
(Continued on Pnge Two
definite plans had been made, and It
was uncertain whether the trio would
be made. , i 1
"We have simply considered the ad-'
vlsablllty of making a tour of the bor-
der to see the situation there at first
hand," said Secretary Baker, "I do
not know definitely whether we will co
or when. The matter Is only under
advisement."
GERMANS
TIN
FIVE BANDITS i
LOOT, KILL AND !
THE TO DILLS
(Special to The Republican.) j
BCCKEYK. Dec. .V Five Mexicans.'
believed to be bandits from old Mexico
I entered the Buckeye Valley bank at
3:10 this afternoon, held up Cashier
I W. H. Watson, took all the loose cash
Jon the counter, and in making their
get-away, engaged in a street fight,
killing Charles Miner, owner of the
i Buckeye bakery. I
J Tonight, half a dozen posses are
searching the Uiickeve valley, Hie foot
hills of the White Tanks, the borders
of the Gila river, and every tuilinaci
t 1 hi it; t along the Santa le ami the
.Southern Pacific main line within
'reasonable reach of the outlaws is he-
lug patroled. j
Watson was alone In the bank when.
I two of the five robbers entered. They j
produced revolvers and made him ele
vate his hands. About that time. F. J.
Hendron. whose store is two doors tfi m
the bank, entered, unmolested by the
three-other Mexicans, w ho were acting
as lookouts. It was Hendron's purpose
to make a deposit, but when he sa.v
Watson with his hands In the air. he
. ran back to his own place of business
j anil Immediately notified the Bucksye
telephone central, Hendrun's appear
,ance apparently frightened the robbers. I
.who delayed not to inspect the safe. I
i but seized all the -ash they could get j
their hands on--amounting to about
' 12.000, according to President George.
! It Brown.
I The five sprinted half a Mock down
the street to a gaiage, where four carst
, were standing. Half a dozen men were
Idling about and the Mexicans drew
their guns on them. To a demand that
some one drive them on their wav. the
six replied that none knew how to han
dle an automobile, and while thev were
i indulging in recriminations. Watson
I stepped from the door of the bank and
I opened fire with a Winchester. None
of his shots could be accurately di- I
rented, as tlm cashier feared to hit j
tnemlieis of the crowd of fif'-- or more,
that was rapidly collecting. The Mexi-
cans liegan to return Watson's fire,
and Just at that moment, Charles Mi
ner, owner of the bakery and confee-
tionary store three door from the
Itank. stopped around tl-4 roni1'-. He I
fell with a bullet through the groin, j
Another bullet passed through the
skirt of Mrs. Taylor, clerk In a store!
a ross the street, who teped outside
at the souhd of firing. She was unhurt. '
Giving up the Idea of compelling any- 1
one to drive the car, the Mexicans
separated, two of them running south
toward the river, and the other three
hastening down the canal, where three
horses had lrn cached. They rode
away unmolested toward the north. I
Two ioses were formed immediately. ;
One went south in two automobiles to
lake the trail of the fleeing pair and
the other took up the tracks of the
three horsemen, who were heading to-j
ward Vulture.
Miner died of Internal hemorrhage
within the hour. He was wenty-five
year of age and lenves n wife and
youn son.
Word Reaches Phoenix.
The first word of the robberv of the
liicUeve Vallev bank yesterday, and
killing of a bystander In a street
ght between the five unknown Mcxi-
ans and Cashier W. II. Watson, was
received bv H. .1. McCli.ng of the Phoe
nix National, bv telephone.
McClung notified Sheriff Adams, who
departed for Buckeye within twenty
minutes. With him went Heinitv Sher
iffs George Sears. J. T. Murphy, and '
Charles Cox. Adams phoned from
Cashlon instructions to send men to
Peoria. Bill Moore nt the Coldwater
'rossihg. meanwhile, had phoned that
the three horsemen had crossed the
road, heading toward the White Tanks,
six miles west.
Pres. Brown's Statement.
That the five Mexicans were strang
ers In Buckeye, was the statement of
President George P. Hrown of the loot-
(Continued on Page Five.)
Progressives Are
Making Overtures
To the Republicans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Dec. 5. Overtures to the
republican party for a voice In the
management of party affairs In return
for progressive support were made to
day in a statement which followed a
conference of C. H. Rowell of Cali
fornia, Gifford Pinchot. Raymond
Robins, James R. Oarfield, William A.
White and Harold L. lekes.
Permanent progressive advance
through the democratic party Is Im
possible, the statement says. In an
nouncing that a national conference
of progressives and progressive-republicans
is to he called within four
months In the hope of bringing about
reorganization of the republican party.
The flribi. stop toward providing
.progressive representation in the party.
. it was suggested, could best lie brought
liibout by giving the present republican
I campaign committee the functions of
jthe executive committee.' "The result
J of election har shown that only hope
of victory for any political party in
America lies In securing and retaining
the support of the progressive voters.''
the statement says. "In spite of cer
tain progressive achievements, the
merit of which we do not question, it
Is clear to us (hat permanent progres
sive advance through the democratic
party Is Impossible. We welcome the
enactment of progressive measures by
anv firty. But we are firm In the
conviction that In the existing two
party system constructive progres
lvism may best he achieved through
the republican party must be thor
oughly progresslvlzed In organization
and leadership and principles."
PREMIER ASQIHTH GIVES UP
POST IN
BONAR
"ABOVE THE AVERAGE"
! SAN ANTONIO, Dec. 5. "Above
: the average," was the summary of
j health reports received today from
I I uo.'ojo troops on Mexican border
j service, by Colonel Walter D. Mc
i Caw, chief surgeon of the southern
deiuirtmcnt.
i l ive base hospitals, at Sail An
tonio, la Paso, Brownsville and
i l-jigle Pass, Texas, and Nogules.
; Arizona, reported less than ll.faiu
' beds occupied and slightly mole
j than Z,t;00 beds empty. Good weath
I er was said by Colonel McCuw lo
; have been instrumental in the re-
i ce nt rapid recovery of many men,
from slight fevers, colds and other
i minor disabilities. .
THREATENS TO
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 5. Curtail
ment of coalin? privileges at J3ritisl:
Is.rts is threatening far reaching ef
feets on American shipping and while
representations have been made to
Great Britain by the state department.
It Is realized tljnt it ma he difficult
to secure any alleviation of the con
stantly tightening restrictions imposed
by the British authorities. Officials
pcint out that the right to coul at
foreign ports is bawd almost entirely
on International! comity and that treaty
pledges in the present Instance are not
of a nature to make the case entirely
clear.
Great Britain's Inability to guarantee
bunker coal to any vessel not utilizing
it ' In such a wa' that British or allied
interests are benefitted." was an
nounced in n statement today by the
British embassy In the form of a
memorandum drawn up tn I-omlon.
The general effect of this policy, of.
ficials believe, will le seriously to em
barrass all independent American
trade with non-allied countries.
The German submarine campaigns
ire b-li. vi-,1 here to l-e largely respon
sible for the new ruling, their inroads
on world shipping influencing the hI
b. to consume .vessels and fuel. Not
oiuv is there a shortage of ships, but a,
ilfsire t' held ns few vessels as pos
!'!': in carrying coal to various sta
tions "ibnut the world.
DARK DA YS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
Tho inimical crisis In Great l.nt.iin
has resulted in the downfall of the
coalition cabinet headed by Herbert
11. Asciiiltn as prim" minister. King
George has tendered the portfolio to
Andrew Bonar Law. unionist leader in
tin house of commons. Should Mr.
Bonar Lew decline. Ijindon believes
that David Lloyd George will receive
I he tender.
In Rumania the forces of the central
powers are driving appreciably near
er Bucharest. Already almost en
compassed on the south and south
west by the Invaders, the capital ap
parently is being rapidly approached
rum the west an(l northwest, with
the Rumanians and Russians nowhere
able to stem the tide. The encircling
movement In the northwest Horn the
regions of Tergovistea' and Petrosita
is dangerously threatening the town of
lioechtl, and the only railroad run
ning from Huchnresf except east. In
dications nie that the Teutons soon
will be at the doors of the capital.
In the northwest, from the Car
pa t h la ns to the Moldavian frontier
region, the Russian offensive Is mak
ing little progress. Petrogrnd an
nounce the capture of another range
nf heights on the Moldavia front and
admits the recapture by the Teutons
In thu wooded Carpathian sector of a
height south of Vornneska. Berlin
says the Russian attacks every vviierj
Lave been without avail.
On the- Macedonian front east of the
Cerna river the Serbians north of
Grunlshto and Itudlmirtsa have taken
additional fortified positions from the
Bulgarians. The Bulgarians In this
region arc- said to he retreating.
Artillery duels and various small
nttacks by Infantry continue on the
western trout in France and Belgium.
The Austro-Italian and Russian war
I
Mexicans Smuggle Million
Cartridges From New York
Reoufalican A. P. Leased Wlrel
MEXICO CITY, Dec. r.. One million
cartridges for the Mexican government,
said to have been shipped from New
York by way of Vera Cruz, reached
here today. According to information
from Vera Cruz the cartridges were
shipped In disguised packages and the
breaking of a sling which scattered the
cartridges over the wharf, exposed the
shipment.
BRITISH CABINET;
LAW TO SUCCEED HIM
GOVERNMENT GRISISEINALL!
EINDS SOLUTION: MUDDLING
POLICf ILL BE ASDLISRED
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
LONDON, I-c. j. The government
crisis found a solution tonight, which
up to the hour of its announcement
was considered the least probable of
practical alternatives. Herbert H. As
cpilth re signed the premiership which
he had held through eight stormy years
of domestic ui'd foreign history.
The unionis. leader, Andrew Konai
Law. was summoned to the palace im
mediately after Mr. Asipiith had de
parted and the king offered him tin
prime minister's commission, which be
had Just accepted from Mr. As.iuitl -hands.
No announcement regarding Bona1
Law's decision has been made, ai- i
there are some doubts whether he vvii.
accept the heavy responsibility. If be
declines, it Is considered certain that
the honor will fall to David Lloyd
George. The continuation of the coali
tion cabinet, with some changes in its
membership and the speeding up of the
war management will be the polity in
either event.
The premier's decision to resign and
advise the king to summon Andrew
Hollar Law to form a cabinet was taken
after a day of extraordinary political
excitement and activity. There were
constant comings anct goings of the
political leaders between Downing
street and the various government de
partment.!. Mr. AscU.th met se.ersl
unionist leaders In consultation, imiutl
ln" Krrl Curzon, Lord Robert Cecil,
and the Karl of Derby.
Noticeable absentees from h's con
ference were A. J. Balfour. a..o is ill;
Andrew Bonir Law. J. Austin Cham
berlain and Walter Hume 1 ng.
Later in the afternoon the premier
met his supporters, including Viscount
Grey. I.ewis Harcourt. Kdvvin S. Mon
tague, the Marquis of Crewe. Reginald
McKenna. Walter Riincinian, Lord
Puckmaster. H. Samuel, Lord Readircr
and Arthur Henderson. The meeting
lasted far more than an hour and It is
supposed that Mr. Asipiith explained
that he was fac-ed by almost insuper
able obstacles to the reconciliation of
the conflicting interests and intended
to tender Iris resignation. Almost im
mediately til" premier drove to the
palace and had an audience with tiie
king.
It now is remarket! that when T.Ir.
FOR BRITAIN
theaters have been Jvarren if im
portant events.. .
The Italian steamer Palermo ha
been torpedoed and sunk off th
Spanish coast, according to dispatches
from Madrid. The steamer is said to
hay? had twenty-five Americans em
board. cine sailor, reported to have
been tin American, died as a rc'sul! of
wounds.
After December 1, under an ortlfr
of the British board, of trade, no
meal in the evening exceeding three
courses, or two courses at any other
time, may be served in lioteis. res
tattrut'ts or public places. Meatless
days in the- British isles also are in
(Continued on Tage Five)
RAILROAD LEGISLATION TO BE
TAKEN IIP If SENATE AT ONCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec-. 5. Farther
railroad legislation suggested by Pres
ident Wilson at the time of the enact
ment of the Adamson law. will be
taken up Friday by the senate com
merce committee. Chairman' Nevvlands
said today. Measures before the ccm
imittee include-
j A bill to enlarge the membership of
jthe Interstate commerce commission
from seven to nine and empower it t"
wit w ith full authority in groups; a
I bill similar to the Canadian dispute's
I net t; forbid strikes or lockouts on
Interstate railroads pending efforts by
It is further reported that the Amer
ican consul at Vera Cruz, W. W. Can
ada, instituted an investigation of the
matter and the unloading of the steam
er was temporarily delayed.
This was alluded to by General
Aguiliir, the foreign minister, in a
speech to the delegates at the constitu
tional congress In secret session as "an
embarrassing incident at a critical
period."
lAsquith was asked in the house of eom
Imons yesterday if a food dictator had
I been appointed, lie replied sharj.lv: J
i don't like a food dictator."
j nere is much talk tonight of the
I possibilities of a general election. Mr.
j Bonar Law would first form a cabinet,
j if he takes ofice. As it is necessary
j that the government be carried on, anil
, ' "n appeal to the electors for a ratifi
cation of his administration. There is
'strong opposition, however, to any poli
j tical campaign which must nec-ssurily
divert the country's energies from the
War work while it lasted, and the new
government may decide to go ahead
'with the approval of the house of com
mons only and not of the voters.
I The part Dav id Lloyd George is plac
ing in the crisis, was demonstrated
plainly today by the fact that be re
mained in his office while, the premier
conferred separately with tiie Liberal
and Conservative members of the cabi
net. Mr. Lloyd George's whey had
supporters in Uth camps. His strongest
Liberal friend. Lord Reading, carried
messages between the premier s council
and Mr. Lloyd George's desk.
It was significant to onlookers also,
that Mr. Bonar U- refrained tium
attending the conservatives meeting
with Mr. Asiiiith, and l.rd Curzon
hastened to rcixirt to Ipm in the colo
nial office immediately the conference
was endeid.
Mr. Asiulth"s retirement has taken
the politicians so by surprise that they
are not yet ready to predict the re
sults. The oossihiiity that Mr. Aspi::h
will consent to remain in the ca iit.et
with Mr. Bonar Law taking the post
of lord high chancellor, in which it ha-e
lone' been considered he micht f;nd a
congenial berth. Is discussed.
HerlK-rt Samuel's promotion from th
home secretaryship to Reginald Jlr
Kenna's position at the treasury, ali
is predicted, while acceptance of the
resignation of Viscount Grey and A. J.
Balfour, which some of the papers
bac king Mr. Lloyd George are demand
ing, is less likely under Mr. I'onar
Law's regime than if Mr. Lloyd George
camo into power.
The Labor party certainly v. ill hold
a more important part in any new cabi
net than it has been filling in the old.
The more sensational London pane:
have enjoyed three or four days of al
most frenzied excitement, with de
mands and denunciations often in lan
guage stronger than the dignity i f
British politics has permitted in the
memory of the present generation. Th
crucial events in Rumania and Greece
have been given a secondary place, ex
cept ns they were used as a basis for
attacks on the ministry.
'T'he strong man wins." was the
poster of the last edition of the Even
ing News, which is Mr. Lloyd Georee'r
'"-g.m; and "Asejuith stands firm." was
the placard of the Liberal Star.
The court circular announces tnnicht:
"The Right Honorable Mr. Asiuith
had an audience with His Majesty the
King and tendered his resignation as
primo minister and first lord of the
treasury, which the king has been gra
ciously pleased to accept."
Herbert Henry Asqtiith became pre
mier of Great Britain in l:'"S. succeed
ing Sir Henry Campbell liannciman.
(Continued on Page Two)
the federal board of mediation and
conciliation to settle differences, and
a bill which would give the presi
dent power to operate railroaus for
military purposes when their function.
are suspended or hindered.
Measures affecting interstate r.mi
mcree were introduced today by S-n-alors
I'nderwoenl and Town-acrid, but
Ithey probably will not be consul, -red
;!v the committee this week. Senator
I ' iidervvood's bill proposes to Rive the
iiitcr tate commerce commission pow
er to fix wr.ges and hours of laNir of
interstate railroad employes and au
thority to act in Bitch matters on it-
own Initiative or on application of the
tuibll-.', the employes, or the railroads.
Senator Tovvnseml's measure would
authorize Investigation of railroad
'. controv ersies including matters of
wages, hours and conditions of em
ployment by a presidential commis
sion. If the senate committee continues
to favor these measures it may in
fluence the, Investigation of general
transportation problems nov( under
way by a joint congressional com
mittee. This investigation, members
suv. cannot be well cenchided for a
year and an effort may be made to
eoneentrvte now on bills already be
fore congress and postpone investiga
tion of questions of government own
ership or more exclusive federal con
trol until after adjournment next.
March.
