VOL. 52 NO. 288
BRIDGEPORT, CONK., WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
BK3
fo);
1
mm
ITI fn)W
X
1 D?S (
District Attorney, His Wife
and Clerk, Are Positive
y That Man Arrested in
, Chicago is One Who Won
Rae Tanzer's Love..
Mysterious .Woman, vTo Be
. Known in Court Records
as VMadame , X V Agrees
1 to Make Statement As To
' How She, Too, Was Duped
New York, Dec. 6-Charles
H." Wax was identified at. the
jUnited States Attorney's office
, here .today by James W. Os
borne and vhis wife,, together
with v Edwin Willcox, -ari assis
tant in; his office, as "Oliver
fOsborne," the man who won
. the affections" of Rae Tanzer.
After a. night In the Tombs prison,
; 'Wax appeared composed and Teady
' for the ordeal before him today. Fed
l erai; officials planned to bring before
J him; not only persons connected with
. 'Rae . Tanzer's breach of -promise suit
against James W. Osborne '"but . also
"several young women he is believed
' to have duped. '.
Special interest was shown in a new
figure in the case who, according to
, iDistrict-Attorney .r. Marshall's-,. office; is
a Woman of social standing above that
" ' . of the', average woman with "Whom
Wai had associated. She met Wax,
he -believes,.! when.' he was; posing, as
Charles., tl. Baymond. i At that time
J he-id -hewa.a Up'Jig.d. States attor-
r nw&tfjtf -.sr.. .'I ... . " :
J " This woman has consented to ap
1 v pear," it was stated, on condition that
lher name will not be made known
.nd for that reason she will appear In
the records as Mme. X. She will be
' taken to ; seeV Wax secretly and , the
authorities Relieve that it will not be
' necessary for' her to enter court.
Among others whom.it is expected
i Wax will,' face today are Masie Mason,
,. Iwhoni he is said to have married un
der the name of , Nye; Mrs. Stewart
bDenham, in whose house in New Tork
Ijie lived as "Oliver Osborne"; Miss
Jlose Helen Kaiser and her mother,
end the . proprietor .of the hotel at
' plainfield, N. J., where "Oliver. Os-
borne" registered with Hae Tanzen ; .
WOULD REMOVE
NEGLECTED TOTS
TO COUNTY HOME
Public Officials Believe They
Are in Danger of Im
moral Influences.
Charging that Leo D. and Louise
Pewey conduct it, disorderly house at
429 .'Connecticut avenue and neglect
their children, .Louise aged . five and
Raymond, aged two, Attorney E.. O.
Hull; for the Connecticut Humane
i society, appeared: before Judge Miller
in -the probate cour asking for the
commitment of the children to the
County Home, , Testimony ' concerning
the alleged misconduct with men oth
er than her husband, was offered
against Mrs. Dewey by Mrs. Margaret
T. Bcrgess, probation officer; Mrs.
Mabel L. Godman, family visitor for
the Cnarlties department; Mrs,vAnna
ifThompson. of 417 Connecticut avenue
and Mrs,, Caroline E. Connor, of 419
Connecticut avenue, . the last two
ineighbors of the Deweys. ;
; From Mrs. Thompson's home in the
iecond story. of the house next door,
the witnesses alleged they saw Mrs.
ijewey acting Indiscreetly, , The
neighbors claimed the children . were
present at the time..
. Mrs. Burgess 4 said she visited the
;Xewey house at the Instance of Rev.
Thomas P, Mulcahy, assistant pastor
iof St, Mary's church and she reported
what she-saw there to Pro3eciitlng
Attorney" PeLaney. She .,' said that
neighbors told her that the Deweys
Jiad ' the reputation of -conducting a
. 'disorderly house. ;
Dr,' Edward F. McGovern, family
physician for the Deweys testified he
Jiad' treated them on numerous occa
sions, attending Mrs. Dewey when her
children were born. He considered
them respectable people, ' said Mr.
Dewey provided a good home and
that it was always neat and cleanly
when he -was called there.
The children were taken from the
parents last Saturday by Alexander
'J. Merrlssey, investigator of the board
fef charities and . are now being cared
for at the Fresh Air Home in Fair
field, . ' " . - - '
..Attorneys Beeeher and Canfield ap
peared for the parents" In the probate
eourt today. - - ..;
I. . ' ' . ' - . ' ' '
' ; .
In. a battle for life, in which revolver - shots were fired
by Francis Romero, his partner, William Halliday, 38 years
of age, a prominent contractor, builder and real estate oper
ator,; was .wounded three times in his home at 103 Garfield
avenue,' at 1:30 this afternoon, and is now at St. Vincents
hospital. ; 1 ; '.' r -
Romero, technically charged with attempted murder, is
being held at police headquarters. He claims self-defense
impelled him to shoot Halliday.
The story of their troubles which
led to the shooting this afternoon, J
rivals the wildest tales of frenzied
finance; in which Romero is alleged
to have been made the tool of Halli
day - and which involves, many
Bridgeport banking institutions, ' who,
it -Is alleged, were victimized by the
pair, in ' obtaining loans. V
.Their mfe thod3 of conducting' busi
ness caused the police to institute an
investigation following an incendiary
fire, which three, weeks ago, destroyed
the house at 103 Garfield' 1 avenue 12
hours, after it had been purchased by
a Bridgeport woman. '
Romero was . advised yesterday by
the . police not to sign any more notes
for .Halliday and to desist from sign
ing deeds for -his partner, whether he
used his own name or one suggested'
by Halliday.
This noon Romero was sitting in the
kitchen of the Halliday home. He has
always lived with Halliday. Mrs. Hal
Iday had gone to a theatre. Halliday
entered .the. kitchen with three deeds
in his hand and- placed one on the' ta
ble, which proved to be a deed for lot
2 3,. 107 Garfield avemie. This deed had
v-mi sighed" toy Romero, under the
name, of "Joseph Martini," at the sug
gestion of Halliday, It is alloyed, And
money' borrowed at a local bank by
Halliday -on-It. ; ' '' ' ;; y
Romero in reply to HalUofay's request
said, "I'm . all; through, sighing "these
deeds and notes for you. VI have been
been talking - with a -lawyer and he
advised me to stop signing1 papers."
"You'll sign this, or I'll kill you,'
Halliday is alleged to have replied, to
Romero. '. The pair were alone in? the
house at the time. Romero was 'firm
in his refusal and ' angered Halliday,
who is ; a man of great physical
strength and weighs 200 odd .pounds,
while Romero is a slight person of 30
years. Halliday sprang .for the. young
PROMINENT BRIDGEPORT JEWISH
WOMEN PROTEST TEACHINGS OF
SECTARIAN NATORE IN SCHOOLS
Following a protest from the Bridge- 1
port Section, Council of Jewish Wo
men, that one of the rules of the board,
of education . has been broken repeat
edly during the last three years, Sup.
S. J. Slawson of ' the schools, has Is
sued a warning to the teachers and
principals of the city to observe Sec
tion 3, Article 2, of the board of edu
cation regulations. j
The rule bans the injection' of relig
ious ' teachings, religious readings andi
religious discussions of . a sectarian
nature into the c'ass room work. The
Council of Jewish Women have , pro
tested that some of the teachers in
the city persist in violating the rule.
"We ask nothing new," said Mrs.
Walter Loewlth, one of the . women
prominently identified wth the coun
cil, today. "We ask merely that the
rule of the board be obeyed. f
"During the last three' years some
of the teachers have pontinually had
DARIEN MURDER
MYSTERY TRIAL
1 IS SCHEDULED
Prisoners Held for Woman's
Death Now :Are . at Lib-
erty onxBail.
The trial of William F. Fair and
Jack Devereaux of Darien, charged
with manslaughter in connection with
the death of Margaret Fair in 1914, has
been assigned for next Tuesday in the
criminal superior court. The case
attracted considerable attention at the
time because of some mysterious fea
tures. Margaret Fair, wife of William
F. .Fair, disappeared from Darien In
June, 1914. Two months later her
body was found in the weeds Just out
side the town. Fair and Deveraux,
who worked for him, were suspected
of having been responsible for , the
woman's death, but they denied; the
charge.
' Attorney John Keogh of Norwalk,
representing Fair, declared this morn
ing that he would ask the court ; to
postpone the trial for one week in or
der that certain important witnesses
may be on hand. The prisoners are
out. on bond at present ,
er man.
. Romero jumped from his chair and
backed away, pulling a gun at the
same time. "Keep away from me or
111 shoot," he warned Halliday. But
the latter was not to be denied and
he bore in close to Romero.
"Romero fired the gun twice in the
air to scare Halliday. The latter pick
ed up a stove lid and threw with ter
rific force at Romero, hitting him
in the head, and splitting his skull.
' Thinking. Romero nearly knocked
out, Halliday sprang at him and tried
to' choke him.. The former managed
to get his revolver in a position to
shoot and he sent three or four bul
lets crashing into Halliday's arm. But
these wounds failed to halt Halliday,
who . struggled, ' to get -possession of
the gun. . . . '
-' All over the kitchen the pair fought
with a grim tenacity of purpose; Hal
liday to get the gun and Romero to
retain possession of it. Tables were
broke and overturned; chairs smash
ed and the windows in the house shat
tered. Through the kitchen the pair
rolled, fighting tooth -and nail, out-into
the dining room where they
wrought havoc with the furniture. -
An overturned falling table pushed
them into the parlor, where lamps
were sent hurtling through the air,
windows broke and bric-a-brac splin
tered "during the struggle. Exhausted
by, the '.loss of blood and , his' efforts
to overcome Romero, Halliday fell in a
faint on.. the oucb.. in the. room.--
JEtomcro crawled on" his hands and
knees to the telephone land between
gasps for breath told the police he
had shot his partner.
Detectives James Dooley and Hoi
brook were , jumped to the scene and
the emergency .hospital- ambulance
sent, to the -house. Halliday was, tak
en to St. Vincent's ' hospital and
, , (Continued -on Page Two.) '
readings from the second testament,
the Life of Christ, etc., and have been
teaching the story , of The , Nativity
and The Three Wise Men.
"We most certainly do' not object to
the inculcation of the Christmas spirit;
rather we approve that spirit. But
teachings that ate opposed to the be-r
lief s of one portion of the classes are
against the rule. We merely ask that
the rule be observed.".' ' f
The protest .was received Nov. 27!
and will be considered at the meeting
of the board of ,, education Monday
night.. f
In the meantime.Mr. Slawson has
sent notices to the principals and'
teachers telling them of the protest
and warning, them to consult tve rule.
The rule prohibits in the, class room
the advocacy of the principles of any
political party or religious sect, read
ing of any sectarian or party litera
tuo in the class rooms, or making
covert attacks on any religion.
SENTENCE FULL
BLOOD INDIAN
TO COUNTY JAIL
Jim Scott, a full blood Indian who
Is a graduate of the Carlisle Indian
school, was; arraigned befdre Judge
Burpee in the criminal superipr court
&this morning on' the charge of at
tempting a serious assault. upon a little
boy In Stamford. Scott pleaded, guil
ty and was sentenced-to jail for nine
mpnths.. '. He said in his own defense
that iie. had been working", in tarn
ford where he had been engaged to
marryVa girl who' lived "'near 'him.
When thejglrl jilted him, Scott went
on a spree for' several weeks. While
he was recovering from the effects he
attempted the. crime.
Louis Masino and Charles Ramono
of this city; both under 21 yeads old,
pleaded "guilty. 'to robbing Vincent
Bacca and Frank . Jenicki. They
were sent to the' state reformatory.' It
was alleged that Bacca' and Jenicki
were held up as they' walked out of
a local saloon September 29, last.
Baron Lucas, of Trudwell, a mem
ber of the British Air Corps, was
killed during a flight over the Ger
man lines. k
PRETTY GEORGIA
GIRL'S ROMANCE
ENDS SADLY HERE
Her Lover Awaits Trial in
United States Court Un
der Mann Act.
PROSTRATED, SHE
FINDS PROTECTION
Matron of Protective Home
Shelters Girl Through
Trying illness.
Betrayed , by the man in whom she
had pinned her faith and hopes of
future, happiness, her girlish romance
blasted, pretty Maud Page, 16 years,
a member of an old aristocratic
Southern' family, living in 'Wrights"
ville, Georgia, is in a critical condi
tion, at the Womans Protective home,
and continually calls on death to end
her sufferings and disgrace, as she
tosses on a bed of pain.
Meanwhile lodged behind prison
bars, Cromwell Jackson, 27 years,
who comes of a prominent South Car
olina family, is awaiting his removal
from this city to Hartford for. trial
on charges (of violation of the Mann
white slave act. ,TJ. S. District At
torney Spellacy will serve papers on
Lieut. E. O. Crofian for the removal
of the prisoner Saturday.
Miss Page, a slim little girl, and
typical Southern belle, . who talks
with that drawl peculiar to her peo
ple ,was the pride of Wrightsville vil
lage. -Her parents are proud ."folk",
who trace their lineage back to the
"first Southern families, sah."
Jackson, her lover, lived just
across the state line in South Carolina-,
about 100 miles distant,, and his
brother-resided near the Page girls'
home. While visiting his brother he
met. Miss Page. About a year ago ho
came North a,nd obtained a position
with the Remington Arms Co. Several
months ago he returned to his home
and visited his brother, again meeting
the Page girl. He laid seige to her
heart and impressed her with his tales
of Northern pleasure and travel.
' "They '. hunted through the thick
persimmon tree woods for 'possum,
and during long walks under sunny
skies, he told her he wanted to marry
her. and she agreed with his sugges
tion that It would be much more ro
mantic to elope. " . '
He obtained a marriage license a
month ago, which he showed her to
prove his Intentions, and the girl pre
pared to leave home secretly. They
made their .way to Charleston, where
they Intended to wed, .but Jackson
claimed they would miss the boat -if
they stopped for the ceremony, so
they sailed as man and wife. Arriv
ing in this city the pair hired a room
In a Berkshire avenue lodging house
and he returned to work in the muni
tion factory. ;
She often spoke to him of going to
the "parson" but somehow, as she
explains It, "we all just didn't." She
tired of staying home all day and de
cided the best thing she could "do
would be to get work. With this in
tention she applied at the Remington
Arms employment office. The fact
that she stated she came from Geor
gia," coupled with her innocence "and
youth aroused the suspicions of the
officials and they notified, the police,
who brought the girl Xo headquarters.
To Lieut. Cronan she " told her
story and in a -paroxysm of grief,
begged the police official to spare her
the humiliation and disgrace, which
"sah, shore 'nuff, will Jest break the
old folks' heart." Touched by her
story Cronan had Jackson arrested,
and turned the girl over to Miss Cath
erine Hewitt. Telegrams were Kent
to her home in Georgia and the story
of her elopement verified. The fed
eral authorities in the South arranged
with U. S. Attorney Spellacy to prost
oute Qn -white slave charges an 4
Jackson was held for arraignment.
The trusting girl, broken hearted,
Immediately took sick and for the
past three days a doctor has almosl
constantly attended her . - Lieut. Cro
nan. today,, however, is going to show
her a letter from Georgia In which
.the "old. folks" though heartbroken
for the "stain on the family name"
forgive her and will . welcome her
home with open' arms, which may im
prove her condition.
"The old folks know I've been a
good Christian daughter. I know
they'll forgive me,", said the girl
wheji arrested. . and the ' verification
of her belief, it is hoped by the physi
cians, .will bring about her speedy re
covery. .. , . ; -
She states she will not marry Jack-
son, even . though he might desire, to
right ' the .wrong he has done her,
holding that he in her " opinion "is
jest no man."
Another Infantile .
Paralysis Case Here
Another case of pollomyelit's has
been reported to the" health depart
ment. Ethel Whee'er; four years old,
of 367 Wilmot avenue, is suffering with
a mild type of the disease.
Dr. N. T. Pratt reported the ease to
day. The ehT.d has been ill about two
weeks, but the symptoms did not be
come definite until yesterday. Ar
rangements are being made to remove
the child to the Iso atlon hospital.
London, Dec. 6 Mr. David Lloyd George has been offered
the Premiership. ' i
The tender of the office was made today by King George,
following a declination by Mr. A. Bonar Law, who last night was
invited to succeed Premier Asquith who resigned. )
Whether Mr. Lloyd George will accept has not been offi
cially announced. After his conference with Mr. Lloyd George,
the King summoned to the palace several members of the recent
cabinet in the hope of solving the crisis.
The possibility of Mr. Lloyd George's success in forming a
new ministry is causing much speculation. It was his action
that led to the disruption of the coalition government' and the
resignation of Premier Asquith yesterday after eight years ser
vice. There is question in some quarters as to whether Mr.
Lloyd.George will have any more success than Mr. Bonar Law.
The latter declined today to undertake the task of formingxa
new cabinet.
Political correspondents here are predicting that Mr. As
quith will be back at the head of -the government before many
days.
.Mr. Asquith takes a majority of the Liberal ministers with
him in his retirement. Mr. Lloyd George being assured of the
support of only Herbert Samuel, the home . secretary, Sir Ed
win S. Montague minister of munitions, some of the junior min
isters, including Dr. Christopher Addison, parliamentary under
secretary for munitions, and a small section of th?, ty known
as the "Ginger Group."
It is not believed probable Mr. Lloyd George would have
any more success with the labor members than did Mr. Bonar
Law, the parliamentary correspondents say, while the attitude
of a large part of the Unionist party is doubtful. ;
Mr. Bonar Law, Sir Edward Carson and the Earl of Derby
probably would not act under Mr. Lloyd George, as they support
ed his ultimatum to Premier Asquith regarding the, formation of
a mailer war council.
n The '. Nationalists, who witnarew
their support from Premier Asquith
because of his failure to carry out the
agreement made by Mr. Lloyd George
for bringing home rule into force im
mediately, would hardly be likely to
follow, a .cabinet, in which Sir Edward
Carson was included. ( It had "been
suggested their, support might be ob
tained by granting their demands re
garding Ireland and it was even said
Sir Edward was a party to this, but
the Ulster leader telegraphed to his
supporters in Belfast a flat denial of
the report, saying:
"The proposals attributed to me are
without foundation. Ulster men know
my views and my unabated loyalty
to them."
Another difficulty was presented by
the labor party whose leader, George
Wardle, announced yesterday the in
tention of the labor members in the
House of Commons, to support Mr.
Asquith. They are meeting today to
make final decision.
The Manchester Guardian, which
generally voices the opinion of the
provincial members, expressed the
opinion that Mr. Bonar Law would
be more likely to effect a combination
which the House of Commons would
support than Mr. Lloyd-George would
be, and added there was no reason to
believe Mr. Lloyd-George had any
ambitions for the task. The Guardian,
which supports Mr. Lloyd-George says
that in a letter to Mr. Asquith he took
the stand that a man could not act
both as Premier and as a member of
he war council, which would have to
sit morning and evening and deal with
"the terribly urgent" war problems.
The hope is expressed generally
that an election will be avoided, on
account of the delay and of interfer
ence with the business of war. Should
an election become necessary it would
be held under a three-year-old reg
ister so that 4,000.000 jiew voters
would be disfranchised.
The Westminster Gazette says:
"Premier Asquith's resignation was
not received with any dismay in Lib
qil1 circles - i
"It may well be that Mr. Asquith
will, as a result of the crisis, be sum
moned' prtce more to the palace to
form an administration which would
have the advantage of commanding a
majority in the House which no other
administration seems likely to be
able to obtain."
After receiving Mr. Lloyd-George,
tow horn presumably he offered the
Premiership, King George summoned
to the palace several . members of the
recent cabinet in the hope of solving
the crisis.
Republicans Pledge
Support to Bill on
Corrupt Practices
Washington, Dec. 6 Promises by
Republican Senators that they will in
good faith aid in passing a eorrupt
practices bill to prevent future lavish
expenditures of . money In national
elections, induced Senator Owen, of
Oklahoma, Democrat, today, to with
hold his proposed resolution of in
quiry, into expenditures of the last
election.
United States Ambassador James
W. Gerard , sailed en the Scandinavian-American
liner Frederick VIII
for Germany.
TEUTON HORDES
STILL ADVANCE
ON BUCHAREST
Capture Many Villages
Along River Alt in
v Their Invasion.
Berlin,- Dec. 6 Field Marshal von
Mackensens troops, advancing victor
iously, ' approached the railway line,
running northward from Bucharest to
PloechU, . causing the Rumanians to
evacuate ' their position north of
Sinaia. v Somth of -Bucharest the Teu
tonic troops have occupied other
towns along the river Alt, and are ad
vancing toward the Rumanian capital.
More-than 6,000 Russians' were cap
tured yesterday. i
RUMANIANS FALL BACK.
" Petrograd, Dec. 6 A further re
tirement . of the Rumanians in the
Tergovistea-Ploechti sector northwest
of Bucharest and along the railway
from Titu to Bucharest, - is announc
ed in.' today's war office statement.
Elsewhere the Teutonic forces were
beaten ' back. . ,
FIGHTING IN CARPATHIANS.
Berlin, ; Dec. , 6 Russian ' troops
again attacked yesterday in the Car
pathian forest, north of Tartar Pass,
and on the Ludova. , The war office
report of today says the new assaults
of the Russians brought them no suc
cess. The Russians made a strong attack
in the Trotus valley and succeeded in
reaching the German second positions.
North of Oituz Pass, a Russian point
of support was captured. .
GERMANS ItBCAPTURE HETGHT.
Petrograd, Dec. 6 Russian, troops
attacking the -Austro-German iines in
the wooded : Carpathians, captured a
height to the west of Jablonitza, the
war office announced today, but sub
sequently were shelled out of the po
sition by the hostile, artillery fire. -
BATTLE NEAR MONASTER,
Paris, Dec. 6 Further progress has
been made by the ' Franco-Serbian
forces ;on the Macedonian front, the
war office announced today. During
yesterday's fighting prisoners to the
number of 125 were tagen. A vio
lent artillery engagement Is in pro
gress north of Monastir:
: ALLIHD ATTACKS HELD.
Sofia,' Dee. 6 The repulse of allied
attacks In the Moglenica Valley east
of the Cerna region in Macedonia
front is reported in the official state
ment issued by the war office to
day. THE "WEATHER
Connecticut- Fair, somewhat cold
er tonight; Thursday, fair. West
galea, .diminishing by Thursday morning.
Steamer John Lambert,
Built Here For France and
on v Way to Havre With
American Crew Attacked
By U-Boat.
No Warning Given, Officer
Says, Before First Shell is
Sent Crashing Through
Bridge Crew Rows 40
Miles.
New York Dec. 6 The
steamship 'John Lambert, listed
in the maritime register as an,
American vessel, was shelled'
and sunk without warning by a
German submarine off the Isle
of Wight on Nov. 22, according
to members of the crew, Amer
icans, who arrived here today
on the. French line steamship
Espagne from Bordeaux;.
The John Dambert was one of 12
vessels which, built ' on the Great
. kes, the French line agreed to. pur
chase. According to the arrivals to
day, the vessel had not yet .been 1
turned over to the French' interests
but was on its way- to Havre for de- -livery
"there.
The attack took place at 4:30 p. m.;
when the ship -was 25 ; miles south of'
the Isle of Wight, the crew said. Tha
engineer, Edward Harrison of this
city, said the U-boat first made its
presence known by sending a BhelJ
crashing through the John Lambert's
bridge and that the" firing Continued
during the time the crew was taking
to the boats, twelve- shots in all being "
fired. . . . . v
The crew,, numbering K, all of whom
Arrived here today, without their cap
tain, said they rowed 40 miles to the
French coast, being on" the water 12
hours and that shortly after the' John
I-ambert went down they saw the sub
marine ' attack and sink two unidenti
fied vessels, a steamship and a bark.
John Barnardus, second 1 officer of
the John Lambert,' said the vessel-flew
the French flag when she went down
and had been using that' flag although
not yet t formally turned over to the
French.
He said he was on the bridge at. the .
time the attack began and that the
first shot struck the water ' about ten
feet ahead of the ship's bow. The esc
ond, he said, hit the bridge.
"As soon as the submarine opened '
fire on us I ordered the French flag
run up and the men to take to the
boats," Bernardus said.
The John Lambert left Montreal
Oct. 21, reaching Falmouth, Eng., No
vember 10, putting in there because ol
engine trouble, aud leaving November
21. It was the following day that
she was sunk. She was in command
of Captain Thomas Harris of Mon
treal. The John Lambert ,was the last of
the 12 Great Lakes, craft to be taken
to France for delivery. Eighty
members of the crews of four of these
vessels wore passengers on the Es
pagne today.
. The Great- Lakes and St. Lawrence
Transportation Co. owned the John
Lambert, of 1,550 tons - gross, which
was8 'built in 1903 at Chicago.- The
vessel sailed from Montreal on Octo
ber 20. .
Washington, )ec. 6 State . depart-(
ment officials had received no reports
early today, of the sinking without
warning of the American steamer
John Lambert by a. German submar
ine. Steps will be taken to ascertain
promptly the facts' In the case.
WANT SUPERIOR
COURT TO DECIDE
DISPUTE ON WILL
Trustees of Hiram Gates
Estate Bring Suit
Against Heir.
" To have the superior court decide
upon the construction of certain part
of the will of Hiram D. Gates, who
left a large amount of property when
he died here in 1895, Thomas Barkey v
and Catherine Gates, trustees of the'
estate, have breught suit against
Harry D, Gates, a local automobile
dealer, Papers were filed this morn
ing in the superior court,
The enly living heirs are ' Catherine
and Harry D. Gates, Aooording to'
the terms of the will Harry received
all money and personal property in
1910, when he was 2 5 years eld. The '
dispute arose ever "the real estate, ;
vhich is very valuable. Harry claims
this all goes to him but Catherine
does not admit this. As the trustees
are in doubt about the construction '
of the will they want the court to '
make a decree satllij&a tba
s
