R
News By Wire Daily
from the United Prcn
Association.
You will Find AH tht
Local News Every Day
in the Daily Exprew.
VOLUME SEVENTEEN.
CHICKA8HA. OKLAHOMA. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1916.
NUMEFR 28
Chickasi
1A
DAILY
MOVE MADE
TO END EUROPEAN WAR
Resolution Offered Calling for Immedia'e
Conference Between'Committees and
President to Form Plans
FOOD PRICE PROBE
WAITS ON WILSON
Delegation of Suffragettes Visits Capitol to
Demand Return of Flag Flaunted in
President's Face
Py United Press.
Washington, Due. 6. A resolution
calling for an immediate conference
of jthe senate and house committees
on foreign affairs with the president
to formulate peace negotiations with a
view to ending the European war was
offered in the house today by Repre
sentative Lindburgh.
Action by congress on legislation
regarding the prices of food will await
the recommendations of the president
and cabinet. ffliQ
Such recommendations will be based
upon reports from the departments
that are making investigations. This
plan is supported by Democrats ,ln
both the house and the senate.
A delegation of suffragettes went to
the capitol today to demand the re
turn of the captured flag which they
unfurled while President Wilson was
delivering his address before congress
yesterday.
The National Woman's party ex
pended ?50,0o5 during the campaign,
according to their statement filed
with the clerk of the house.
BOYS LEAVE
ORPHANAGE;
SENT BACK
Father of Two of the Boys Had Married
Mother of the Other and Sent
Them to Home
Left by their parents in the Cornish
Orphanage from which they escaped
a week ago, three small boys were
picked up atfainnekah yesterday after
noon and brought into Chickasha by
Constable C. C. Robinson. Two of
these, John Franklin Home and Aus
tin Home, aged respectively 14 and 8,
were the sons of a former railroad en
gineer who later ran a dancing hall
at McAlester and a year ago married
the mother of Robert Ritchie, who,
with his step-brothers, were put into
the asylum, the father paying board
for two. As an excuse for running
away the boys said: "My father ran
away from us, so we thought we would
run away from the orphanage."
The boys had no idea where their
father was nor did they seem to be
particularly concerned over the mat
ter. By easy stages they traveled in
autos and wagons from Cornish to
Ninnekah with people who picked
them up and always had three meals
a day and places to sleep on the route.
County Judge Davenport being ab
sent the boys were taken before the
county commissioners and C. Schlot
terbeck, former president of the Cush
lng home, was phoned for. He noti
fied Mrs. Moses Harris, who is now in
charge of the Cornish home, and the
boys were taken there last night to
remain until they could be returned
to the orpahnage.
OIL LEASES SOLD
Oil and gas Iease9 were sold for mi
nors in the county court yesterday af
ternoon, $1 an acre bonuses going to!
two guardianship accounts.
A lease for Isaac W. Standfield, mi
nor, through his guardian, J. A.
Standfield. for $1 an acre a year bo
nus on 150 acres, and a royalty of one
eighth of all oil produced, was sold to
Dan Ford. A lease for Jewel Stand
field, minor, on the same terms, was
executed to the same buyer on 29)
acres.
These lands are situated in section
4, township 4 N., range 5 W.
IN CONGRESS
WEATHER FORECAST
For Oklahoma.
Tonight and Thursday unset
tled; colder Thursday.
Local Temperature.
Maximum, 68; minimum, 37.
SOUTHWICK
AT COLLEGE
TONIGHT
The biggest treat of the year Is In
store for you this evening. You can
not miss it and do yourself justice.
Mr. Henry L. Southwick, the famous
Shakespearean reader, Is to be at the
college auditorium in his popular and
amusing program. This win undoubt
edly be one of the most interesting
and instructive programs ever pre
sented In Chickasha. Mr. Southwick
is a production of the Emerson School
of Oratory and is a reader of national
reputation. By his pleasant and ar
tistic program he never fails to win
approval and admiration of his audi
ence. Don't be a back number.
Keep up with the crowd.
Know what people will be talking
about Thursday morning. Come No
the college auditorium Wednesday
evening to enjoy Mr. Southwick.
MERCHANTS
IVE $125
TO CAUSE
Retail Merchants Association Give That
Sum for Culverts and Transact
Other Business
At the meeting of the Retail Mer
chants association last night it was de
cided to turn over $125 to the Grady
County Highway association as soon
as the latter railed the necessary
remaining $775 with which to c i
struct three concrete cuiveus an the
roadi running north to Pocasaet.
A resolution was also passed direct
ing the secretary to go out among the
business men and merchants and raise
the f0 legislative fund which has
been assigned to Chickasha ' by the
legislative committee of tho Oklaho
ma State Retailers association.
The president, E. I. Bitsehe, was
authorized to appoint ten dalegates to
the big meeting of the Oklahoma Re
tail Merchants association and the
Merchants Alliance, which is to be
held in Oklahoma City on Dec. 27.
Those present at the meeting last
night were well pleased with the work
of the association during the year of
1916, and plans are being made for
better work and a greater association
for 1917. The value of a Retail Mer
chants association lies in the co-operation
of all the niembers; a new rat
ing book will be completed in the rear
future, as soon as all of the merchants
turn in their rating sheets.
COIN
HARVEY
CALLS CONFERENCE
Oklahoma City, Dec. 6. W. If. Har
vey, president of the Ozark Trail as
sociation, has called a conference of
local leaders to meet at the banquet
room, Lee Huckinga hotel in Oklaho
ma City, Friday, December 29, 9 a. m.,
to discuss the subject of the hard-sur-
facing of the Ozark Trails
In addition to tho Ozark Trails cap
tains, county commissioners, road en
gineers, and all who favor any method
of hard surfacing are invited to attend
this meeting. It Is intended by this
conference to digest all the different
proposition? for hard-surfacing, giv
ing each a hearing, and arrive at the
best and most practical conclusion.
The meeting will be of great impor
tance to the good roads movement
everywhere.
The rj
S-V- Q DAYS MftM errd..
-
ANNUALS
FOR R. I.
PEOPLE
First Year Annuals Have Been Issued to
Families; Length of Service Deter
mines Distance Provided
The annual passes for 1917 for local
Rock Island employes and their fam
ilies have been received at the master
mechanic's office.
The length of travel on these passes
is based on the number of years the
applicant has been in the employ of !
the Rock Island. For five' years of ser
vice, any point on the division on
which the applicant is employed; ten
years gives a district and fifteen years
the system.
About one hundred requests were
made for annual passes this summer
and about this number issued. This
Is the first year annual passes have
been Issued to families of employes
and is done in consideration to them
as well as a convenience to the com
pany. NINNEKAH HIGH SCHOOL
Ninnekah, Okla., Dec. C. (Special.)
The Ninnekah high school basket
ball teams will open the season on
their own court Saturday night ot this
week with two games with the Minco
high school boys and girls. The ne w
court will be In fine condition for the
games and two fast contests are ex
pected. The games are being adver
tised thoroughly and a large crowd of
visitors from outside of Ninnekah is
expected.
As the time draws near for the stag
ing of the home talent play, those stu
dents who are on the cast are redoub
ling their efforts to make this produc
tion one of the highest class. Daily
and night rehearsals are being carried
on throughout the week. From the
work which these young people are do
ing it is assured that the night of De
cember 18th will be a red letter one
fcr M.iektui high school.
PETITIONS FOR $1,000,000 BOND ISSUE
FOR HARD SURFACE ROADS PREPARED
Carrying out the plan agreed upon i
at the good roads meeting in Chicka-!
u 'T.i i., m 07 o !
Dili UIl A.lVMlUtlJ C,UHUlbl A.VT. . , M.
committee composed of J. E. Schow
of this city, Barker Riddle and Henry
Mileur, of Rush Springs, has prepared
petitions for a county bond issue of
$1,000,000 for hard surface roads.
It Is proposed to put these petitions
To the Board of County Commissioners of Grady County, Oklahoma;
We, the undersigned resident tax paying electors of Grady County, hereby petition the Board of County
Commissioners to forthwith call an election in said county tor the purpose of giving the qualified electors an oppor
tunity to vote on a proposition to issue the bonds ot such county in the sum of $l,o(H),0)O, (One Million Dollars,) the
proceeds from the sale thereof to be used for building and constructing permanent state roads, and building, con
structing and repairing bridges thereon, under and pursuant to .?.!! the laws of the State of Oklahoma applicable
thereto; 120,000.00 of such amount to be used in constructing a bridge across tho Canadian river in such, manner a3
is provided by law, at such point as the County Commissioners may determine.
We suggest that the general location of such roads be as follows:
One road along the most practical and economical route from the south line of the county
to the Canadian river, connecting the towns of Rush Springs, Ninnekah, Chickasha,' Amber, Po-
casset and Minco;
One road in the south part of the county along the most practical and economical route,
connecting the towns of Bailey, and Rush Springs, and west of Rush Springs to the county line;
One road along the most practical and economical route from Bradley via Alex, connecting
with the east and west road at or near Tabler;
One road east and west through the county, connecting the towns of Tabk r Chickasha and
Verden along the most practical and economical route;
One road east and west in the north part of the county along the most practical and econom
ical route, connecting the towns ot Tuttle and Minco, and extending east of Tuttle and west of
Minco.
We suggest that in the location of such roads and the adoption of plans and specifications for the construc
tion thereof, the selection of a hard surfacing material; the building and construction of such roads and bridges;
the approval thereof and the expenditure of the money derived from the proceeds of the sale of such bonds that the
County Commissioners select nine citizens of Grady County as an Advisory Committee to act with and assist the
County Commissioners in all things pertaining to the expenditure of such money and the construction of roads and
bridges, and that in the selection of such citizens committee, each of the members of the Board of County Commis
sioners select from his Commissioner's district, three niembers thereof.
This petition and suggestions are respectfully submitted.
GERMANS
ARE HEADED
FOR RUSSIA
After Expected Fall of Bucharest Great
Teuton Forces Will Move on Odef s,
Their Next Objective
PETROGRAD ADMITS
GERMAN PROGRESS
Continued and Successful Attacks Made
by Teuton Army on Bucharest Not
Denied by Russians
3y United Press.
Berlin, Dec. 6. The fate of Buchar
est, the Roumanian capital, Is now a
matter of only a few days. The des
perate resistance which the Rouman
ians are offering can only delay the
occupation of the city by the Germans
for a sll()rt tlme
Tho goal of the great offensive
which the Teutons are waging aglnst
the Roumanians is believed not to be
Bucharest, but a march toward Rus
sia with perhaps Odessa as the final
objective.
German Attacks Continue.
By United Press.
Ptrograd, Dec. C Continued Ger
man attacks on Bucharest from the
north, in which the Teutons are meet
ing with success, are officially admit
ted today.
Sunk Without Warning.
By United Press.
New York, Dec. C. The American
crew of the steamship John Lambert,
on arriving in port, jjtcjared that their
vessel was sunk without warning by a
German submarine off the Isle of
Wight.
BOY BURGLAR CAUGHT
Roy Malone, tile human flee whom
the county officials are having trou
ble in detaining as a witness in the
burglary case against Henry Wills,
has been recaptured and will be
brought into Chickasha this afternoon
by Bob Castleman who has postponed
his visit to Missouri on account of
pressure of business.
What to do with Roy became a prob
lem. Judge Linn has recommended
his Incarceration in Jail until further
action is taken.
before the people at once, circulating
t!" in eV(jry se tion ot Ule coun'y
Tor signature. When the requisite
the
number of signatures has been obtain
ed, the petitions will be submitted to
the board of county commissioners
with whom authority for calling a spe
cial election is vested.
The petition sets forth in some do- The full text of the petition is as fol
tail the general routing of the propos- lows
MURDER OF MRS. McDANIEL
REMAINS MYSTERIOUS
By United Pres.
St. Joseph, Mo., Doc. fi. It took five
ballots of the jury to free Oscar Me
Daniel of the charge of murdering bis
wife, It was leuriu'd today. Missou
ri's most mysterious murder is still
unsolved.
DAWSON IS
ELECTED
PRESIDENT
Grady County Medical Association Holds
Annual Election of Officers and Plans
Made for January Meet
Tho Grady County Medical society
have met and elected the following
officers for the coming year:
President, Dr. E. L. Dawson; first
vice president, Dr. H. C. Antle; second
vice president, Dr. W. L. Wlnbourne
of Tut tie, and secretary-treasurer, Dr.
Martha Bledsoe. Dr. Bledsoe has held
this office for tho past five years.
The next meeting of tho association
will be held the first Friday In Jan
uary. An Interesting program will bo
rendered which will Include ono good
clinic and a paper by Dr. D. S. Dow
ney and one by Dr. A. B. Leeds, sub
jects selected. (
PRISONERS
CHEDULED
Jt
OR THE PEN
The following prisoners will be tak
en to the state penitentiary at McAl
ester this evening by Deputy Bob Cas
tleman and Nim Wyatt:
Harold Printy, Sonny Smith and
Henry Carter, who were brought here
from the pen as witnesses during the
last term of the district court; Fred
Hardeman, who goes for seven years
for burglary; Charley Shorter, three
years for burglary; Jess Smith, as
sault with intent to kill, and W. L.
Caldwell and J. P. Chadwell, who
have just received sentences of a year
and a day each for stealing cotton.
IN CITY COURT
Lewis Jones was fined $5 In the po
lice court this morning for being
drunk.
ed roads and it also suggests the cre
ation of an advisory board of citizens
to act in conjunction with the com
missioners in carrying out the propos
ed improvements In the event the
bonds are voted. The proposed sys
tem of roads connects all the market
towns of consequence In the county.
DECLINES TO
FORM NEW
MINISTRY
Andrew Bonar Law Refuses to Accep'iBojS Wh) Put Chickasha on Man
Accept Task Which May Fall Upon: Lloyd
George.Supported by Lord Nort'jclife
FIGHTING GOVERNMENT
MAY BE APPOINTED
Lloyd George May Be Called on to Form
New Ministry and Tremendously
Important Conference On
By United Press. '
London, Doc. 0. A tremendously
i in porta nt conference the final decis
ion of which will undoubtedly nuuwt
tho substitution of a fighting govern
ment for one given to diplomacy is
now In progress at Buckingham palace.
King George, Asquith, Lloyd-U-vorgo,
Bonar Law, Balfour, Henderson and
Samuels ure attending tho conference.
By United Frepu.
London, Dee. (J. That Aw'rew Bo
nar Law, tho Ui.lonlst leader, decliutrt
the proffer from King GeorKe that ho
form a now ministry, was authorita
tively stated today.
With Premier Asqulth's resignation
and tho declination of Law, it is now
believed that David Lloyd George will
bo asked to form e. now ministry.
Lloyd-George, as tho head of the gov
ernment, has been the objective of the
reconstructionista who are supported
by the Northcliffo papors.
Lord Northcliffe, whoso editorials
brought about the present crisis, to
day said "Lloyd-George has given the
knockout, blow to the gang of aged or
inept mediocrites who have prevented
tho British empire from exerting its
full force in the war. Wnatevor gov
ernment arises if "::not but be an Im
mense improvement on that which has
disappeared." ,
Fresh Trouble for f. 8. .
By United Press.
Washington, Dec. G. Fresh trouble
between the United States govern
ment and England was stirred up
when the latter announced a new pol
icy of restrictions on supplying ships
with coal at her stations dotting the
globe. This move is a great Incon
venience to American shippers. .
Appointment Expected,
fly United Prens.
London, Dec. 6. Announcement of
tho appointment and acceptance by
David Lloyd-George to form a new
British ministry Is expected momen
tarily. f
Lloyd-George was summoned to tho
palace by King George this afternoon
after Bonar Law hud declined to ac
cept the premiership. Shortly after 3
o'clock be motored to the palace but
he first saw Bonar Law and held a
conference.
Later the king summoned the mem
bers of the coalition cabinet in the
council to the palace to discuss the
present situation. The report that
Bonar Law declined the premiership
is officially confirmed.
VILLA AND
5,000 AT
SAN ANDRES
Bandit Chief Makes Headquarters Near
Site of Massacre of Americans
on Road to Cusihuiriachic
By United Press.
El Paso, Tex., Dec. li. -With five
thousand follows, Villa Is making his
headquarters in tho vicinity of San
Andres, west of Chihuahua City, ac
cording to code messages received here
today.
It is believed that Villa is dividing
"lis loot and scattering his bands for
further plunder.
Sen Garvey spent yesterday in Wa-tonpa.
FOOTBALL
SQUAD1DINEI
LAST MGfff
t
Gridiron Circles are Guests of
Appreciative Citizens
COACH REED EXPLAINS
BIG PLAY THAT WON
After Being Banquctlcd at Ceronimo Hotel
Young People Enjoy Dance Given
at Elks Hall
Midst the quaint Indian seating of
the banquet hall of the Geronlmo ho
tel, Its Interior decorations heightened
and enlivened by flowing C. H. S. and
other scholastic streamers, the cham
pions of the Oklahoma football arena
and their fair youiiK ones were ban
queted last night by appreciative
Chickasha citizens. Not only were the
boys of the C. II. S. squad impressed
with the genuine appreciation which
felt loyally for the efforts which
made the Washita metropolis the rest-
rig place of the pennant for the com
ing year, but they were publicly assur
ed of the substantial benefits which
they had bestowed upon the commu
nity through the wide advertising
which had resulted for Chlcltasha
throughout the country and the fact
that C. II. S. lifts become a synonym
for clean eport well played.
The manly young fellows who bore
the purple and gold to victory were
told In so many words that their home
people were proud of them and ot
their achievements and that they had
completely pardoned the error com
mitted at Enid when the boys lost the
only game of the season. The unquali
fied victory which cinched the, pen
nant on Thanksgiving Day demonstrat
ed that the Enid faux pas was rather
an accident than a fault. It was in
teresting, nevertheless, to hear the
;.'i."s try to square themselves in the
impromptu responses to toasts which
followed the repast.
The menu was up to the high stand
ard of the Geronlmo and when, after
coffee had been served Toastmaster
Ben Johnso opened the "business" of
the evening, the guests were in a hu
mor to enjoy what, followed. And it
was a treat.
A Sympathetic Toastmaster.
In the unique vernacular of the grid
iron the toastmaster made a brief re
view of the contests which had been
nobly fought during the season, and
his assurances of the deep interest
felt by Chickasha at every step toward
the championship carried conviction.
Mr. Johnson had repaired to Univer
sity, park on Thanksgiving day as a
sedate spectator but could not for
long resist the temptation of jumping
over the rail and becoming an enthusi
ast ie rooter. He played a high com
pliment to the spirit de corps and the
genuine comradeship which animated
the players individually and collec
tively and which is of inestimable
value in sports as well as in commu
nity building in which they would be
called upon to tak- a part later in life.
Importance of Team Work.
The brilliancy of their team wohk
and the part which that quality played
in the success of the campaign was
the topic of most pleasing comment
by Alger Melton who, unlike Mr. John- '
son. had no intention of being an un
emotional spectator at the deciding
game but had been a rooter from the
signal which opened the game until
the players were borne from the field ,
unquestioned champions of their dis
trict. The speaker paid a high tribute
to the unsullied record of the local
boys saying their reputation for play
ing a clean game of football was no
where more generally recognized than
it was among opponents from whom
they had wrested victory or had di
vided honors. lie bespoke for the re
tiring members of the team success in
their ultimate careers but reminded
his audience that another team was
coming on of whom was expected,
equally good work. He impressed on
the boys that, though they were the
principal actors while in action they
owed much of their success to the
careful training of Coach Reeds who
had carried them through so success
fully, and without wuoe wise counsel
(Continued on Page Three.).
