HE BARUE BAILY TIME
rm
VOL.
xx ; -"NoTm " uauwk. vkhmoxt. Wednesday, dkckmhku o. ioig. 1'liElLJ,,SEyT-
. i i
LLOYD-GEORGE IS
GALLED TO FORM
A NEW CABINET
After A. Bonar Law Had
Declined to Accept Post
Offered by British King
When Asquith Tendered
His Resignation as an End
to Crisis in Government
LATTER STEPPED OUT
AMID MUCH DISCORD
He Has Served at Head of
British Cabinet Since 1908,
Although the Unity of the
Government Was Threat
ened a Year Ago New
Government Is Not Com
pleted London, Dee. 6. The 'Westminster Ga
zette says that A. Bonar Law has de
clined the invitation of the kins to form
a cabinet, ami the king hus sent for
Lloyd George
After receiving Lloyd George, to whom
presumably he offered the premiership,
King George summoned to the palace sev
eral members of the recent cabinet, in
the hope of Holving the crisis. Among
those attending wire Bonar Law, Lloyd
Geogre, A. J. Balfour, first lord of the
admiralty, and Arthur Henderson, repre
sentative of the Labor party.
Whether Lloyd George, whose action
led to the disruption of the coalition gov
ernment and the resignation of Asouith,
would have any greater success in form
ing a ministry than Bonar Law is a ques
tion as yet unanswered. Political corre
spondents predict that Asquith will be
back at the head of the government be
fore many days.
Asquith's decision to resign and advise
the king to summon Andrew Bonar Law
to form a cabinet wag taken after a clay
of extraordinary political excitement and
activity. There were constant comings
and goings of the political leaders be
tween Downing street and the various
government departments. Mr. Asquith
met several Unionist leaders in consulta
tion, including Earl Curzon, Lord Rob
ert Cecil and the earl of Derby.
Noticeable absentee from this confer
ence were Viscount Grey, Lewis Har
court, Edwin 8. Montagu, the marquis
of Crewe, Reginald McKenna, Walter
Ruueiman, Lord Buckinaster, Herbert
Samuel, Lord Reading and Arthur Hen
derson. The meeting lasted for more
than an hour and it is supposed that lr.
Asquith explained that lie was faced by
almost insuperable obstacles to the recon
ciliation of the conflicting interests and
intended to tender his resignation. Al
most immediately the premier drove to
the palace and had an audience with the
king.
Herbert Henry Asquith became the
premier of 'Great Britain in 1908, suc
ceeding Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman.
Mr. Asquith at once began a policy of
reform parliamentary, social and con
stitutionalof a radical nature, aided by
David Lloyd Geofge, with whom to-day
he apparently is at odds.
Shortly after the outbreak of the war
the Liberal cabinet of Asquith began to
be assailed by its political enemies,
mainly on the conduct of the war, and
particularly with regard to the naval
branch of the British forces. So bitter
was this campaign that on May 2fi, 1015,
a coalition cabinet was formed, with As
quith, however, retaining the portfolio of
prime minister.
GERMAN SOCIALISTS
EXPECT CALAMITIES
Because Germany's Enemies Are Too
Deeply Pledged to Their War Aims
to See Anything Else Calls
Them "Peace Blind."
Amsterdam, via London. Dec. 6. Berlin
Vorwaert, the organ of the German So
cialists, in an article headed "Peace
Blind," throws cold wter on those who
believe that peace is near. The paper
says: "We must be reconciled to the bit
ter truth that our enemies are too deep
ly pledged to their war aims to see any
thing else. They are peace blind. The
worst calamities are not to be spared the
European peorle, but one; consolation re
tiuiiis that harsh rulers do not rule long.
When even their strong; men do not
achieve anything our enemies do not ad
mit their failure."
DUMA PRESIDENT OUT.
Objected to Being Called a "Babbling
Blackguard."
London, Dec. ft. Michael Rodzianko,
president of the Russian Duma, has re
signed n account of being insulted by
the Extreme Rightist Leader, M. Mark
on", according to a Renter dispatch from
Petrograd.
Markotf interrupted M. Rodzinko,' call
ing him a '"babbling blackguard." M.
MarkorT explained that he was deliber
ately insulting the Duma in the person
of its president, because the Duma in a
previous sitting bad insulted high per
sonages. M. Rodianko immediately left the
presidential chair, declaring that he had
not only been insulted as a president.
but as a man. ' m motion ot ice-i res
ident Bobrin-ky. M. MarkotT was ex
cluded from the Duma fur 1j sittings.
' - . i f i i
FORMER DIPLOMAT DEAD
Herbert H. D. Peirce Died at Portland
Tuesday Afternoon.
Portland, Me., Dee. 0. Herbert Henry
Davis Peirce, minister to Norway from
11)110 to 1911 and who has held many
diplomatic and honorary positions, died
yesterday afternoon at the .Maino Gen
eral hospital.
11 has been a frequent visitor to Port
land, having married a Portland woman,
Miss Helen X. Jose. He was third as
sistant secretary of stato for several
years.
He was born in Cambridge, Mass., on
April 11, 1840, the son of Prof. Benjamin
P. Peirce, the leading mathematician of
his day. His mother was the daughter
of Senator Mills of Massachusetts. The
son was educated in Cambridge, Mass.,
and Exeter, tS". II., and at Harvard, grad
uating from the latter institution in
1871.
He studied geology in the Royal School
of Mines in London after graduating
from Harvard.
In May. 1804, he was appointed secre
tary of the legation at St. Petersburg
and attended the coronation of Nicholas
1L, the present emperor, in May, 4006.
From 1808 to 1001 he was first secretary
of the embassy and served 10 times as
charge d'affaires.
On Nov. 15, 1001, he was appointed
third assistant secretary of state, and
had charge of the reception of the pleni
potentiaries during their negotations for
peace held at Portsmouth, X. H., in 1003,
after the close of the Japanese-Russian
war. On Aug. 20 of that year he received
from them, for communication to the
president, the first announcement of
peace.
He was appointed special counsel for
the claimants and counsel for the United
States government in arbitration cases
t it at n the T'nitprl States and Riifsia,
which was decided in favor of the Uiiited
States by T. M. C. Asser. the Dutch ar
bitrator," who announced his decision on
Nov. 20, 1002.
On June 22, 1005, Mr. Peirce was ap
nmnte.l envov extraordinary and minis
ter plenipotentiary to Norway, serving
until May 21, 1011, when he retired from
diplomatic service. Since then he has
served as counsel for the United States
in American flnrl British claims arbitra
tion. He was assigned to the American
embassy as special agent to assist tub
American ambassador, with tank as min
nb.niiwitent.iarv. receiving bis ap
pointment and beginning his duties in
February, 19 1. 1.
He was a commander of the Legion of
tr....,.- ,.f VrunpA was a member of the
lino. vm ......v.,
order of the Double Dragon, China, and
the Grand Cross of St. Olat ot .Norway.
REPUBLICAN PARTY BEST
Say Progressives in Extending the Olive
Branch.
rhieao-n. Dec. 8. Overtures to the Re
publican party for a voice in the manage
ment, of nartv affairs in return for Pro
gressive support was made yesterday in
a statement which followed a conference
of Chester II. Rowelt of California, Gif
ford Pinchot, Raymond Robins, James R.
Garfield, William Allen White and Har
old L. Ickes.
Permanent Progressive ndvanee through
tha Democratic party is impossible, the
statement says, in announcing mat a na
;.,nal conference of Progressives and pro
gressive Republicans is to be called with
in four montns m tne nopes or onnging
about the reorganization of the Republi
can party.
The first step toward providing Pro
gressive representation in the party, it
was suggested, could be best brought
aWmt. bv ffivincr the present Republican
campaign committee the functions of the
executive committee.
The statement concludes:
"Wn holieve the Republican party can
get the Progressive votes and that Pro
gressive voters through the Republican
party can best secure tne measures or
political reform and social justice to
which they are devoted. But to obtain
this, there must be some guarantee that
Progressive support before election will
insure Progressive influence in the deter
mination of Republican policies alter
election.
"The Progressive are not suppliants,
nor penitents. They are American citi
zens seeking justice and ready to tight
for it. The only harmony that is de
sirable or possible is the harmony of jus
tice." WOMAN REPORTER
GUILTY OF MURDER
Edith Colby Convicted in Second Degree
at Thompson Falls, Montana, of
Killing A. C. Thomas.
Thompson Fals, Montana, Dec. 6.
Edith Cnlby, anewspaper reporter, was
milltv rf aocon.t Hi-cre. murder to-
iuumu r J
day for shooting and killing A. C. Thom
as, a politician, iiie penalty ior second
degree murder is 10 to 12 years.
HUNTING ACCIDENT FATAL.
Joseph Bosely, Aged 22, Died at Alstead,
N. H, Tuesday.
Alstead, X. II., Dec. 6. .Joseph Bosely,
atreH 22. died yesterday mornine in the
office of a local doctor, as the result of
shooting accident Sunday.
Il.wlv and Ralph Whitman, aced 18,
with two companions, were hunting deer
Sunday morning, w nue going inrongn
a swamp Bosely, it is said, stepped di
rwtlv in front "of Whitman, hist as the
latter' repeating rifle accidentally went
off. The sott-nosei Diuiet entered tne
r of tbfi calf of the lee. tearing a
roiiL'h wound as it left at the front.
Bosely was taken to a farmhouse a
. 1 ' 1 'e . i 1 an-av inil I Ken in tl0
!1lll'l "I mill w c., - .....
doctor's office. He could not rally from
! the loss of blood.
STABBED BY BOOTH.
Orchestra Leader in Old Tord Theatre
Dead in New York.
Xew York, Dee. . Col. William With
ers, who was leader of the orchestra in
Ford's theatre in Washington the night
Abraham Lincoln was shot, died here
last night after a long illness. When
Booth limped down the back stairway of
the theatre in his effort to escape after
he had fatally wounded the president.
'Mr. Withers bhxked his way. Booth
j turned on the orchestra leader and
itabled him in the neck with a knife.
Col. Withers was SO years of age.
CANNOT HOLD
TEUTON TIDE
At No Point Are Rumanians
Stopping the In
vaders LATTER ARE TRYING
TO CUT OFF ESCAPE
The Encircling Movement
Threatens Railroad
Communication
The plight of Rumania continues acute
with no sign of a stand by her armies or
those of her Russian ally which afford
hope of saving her capital, Bucharest.
The thief force of the Teutonic thrust
at present seems to be exerted northwest
of the capital with the apparent hope of
reaching Ploechti before the Rumanian
armies can effect a retreat over the rail
groad line from Bucharest. This encircling
movement spells the greatest appar
ent peril for King Ferdinand's forces, as
the road through Ploechti afford the
only railway avenue of escape.
Petrograd, via Ivondon, Dec. 6. Rus
sian troops, attacking the Austro-Ger-man
lines in the wooded Carpathians,
captured a height west of Jablonitza, the
war office announced to-day, but subse
quently were shelled out of the position
by artillery fire.
' Berlin, 'by wireless, Dec. 6. Russian
troops again attacked yesterday in the
Carpathian forest north of Tartar pass
and on the Ludova. The war office re
port says the new Russian assaults
brought no success.
The Russians made a strong attack in
the Trottis valley and succeeded in reach
ing German second positions. Xorth of
Oituz pass, the Russian point of support
was cap tuned. Field Marshal Von Mack
ensen's troops, advancing victoriously,
approached tne. railroad line from Bucha
rest to Ploechti, causing the Rumanians
to evacuate their positions north of Si
naia. South of Bucharest the Teutonic troops
have occupied other towns along the river
Alt and are advancing toward the Kuma
nian capital. More than ti.000 Ruma
nians were captured yesterday.
FRANCO-SERBIAN
ARMIES ADVANCE
NORTH OF MONASTIR
Paris War Office Reports That 125 Pris
oners Were Captured Tuesday and
That Violent Artillery En
gagement Continues.
Paris, Dee. 6. Further progress has
been made by Franco-Serbian forces on
the Macedonian front, the war office an
nounced to-day. During yesterday's
fighting prisoners to the number of 125
were taken. A violent artillery engage
ment is in progress north of Monastir.
ITALY PREPARED
TO FIGHT VIGOROUSLY
Has 2,100 Factories Working on War
Materials, Greater Portion of the
Workers Being Women.
Rome, Dec. 5, via London, Dec. 6.
The allies do not desire to force Greece
into the war, nor do they support any
anti-dynastic movement in Greece, Pre
mier Boselli asserted to-day in a report
to the Chamber of Deputies. Premier
Boselli reiterated the determination ot
Italy to maintain war until the restora
tion of Belgium, Serbia and Montenegro
is accomplished.
As proof, Italy is prepared to push
operations vigorously, the premier an
nounced that now there are Z.lOO factor
ies working on war materials, the work
ers being one-fifth women, whose partici
pation in both the industries and agricul
ture is increasing daily.
CAPTURED A "TANK."
Turks Tell of Their Success in Dobrud
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, Dee. 6.
Turkish successes in Persia and on the
Caucasus front in engagements with the
Russians are reported in the Turkish
headquarter's statement of Dec. 3, as fol
lows :
In northern Persia, north of Sakia,
we carried out a fortunate surprise at
tack and repulsed successfully a Rus
sian counter-attack. In addition we en
tered the village of Sarlin, 100 kilo
meters southeast of Hamadan.
,"On the Caucasus front by a sudden
assault we advanced to the rear of a
hostile position. At the same time we
completely repulsed the enemy's attacks
aganst our left wing.
In Dobrudja our troops on Deo. Z cap
tured. one tank and took prisoner 1 7.1
. . . .n........n . . nitiiwr, .nil '
inmates, incoming six in.iMi uiiutib
. . , i t . . .. ii : ..... I
six other officers. In addition we p
tured one cannon and 250 men."
DEATH OF MERCHANT.
Mark L. Manley of Manchester Was 67
Years Old.
Manchester, Dec. 6. Mark L. Manley,
who was born in Manchester 67 years
ago last August, died at his home in
Manchester Depot shortly before 6 o'clock
last evening of hardening of the arterica.
Mr. Manley was manager of the Com
bination Cash Store company of Man
chester Center, owned by himwlf, W. D.
Hnlett and A. W. Gorton of Rutland. He
had oeen a deacon 01 inc itnpui vnurcn ;
..r m.nr ..r - i
He is survived by his lie. a son, now-
ard X.. of this town, and two brothers,
"eVgeW f Muncie. Ind.. and Morton B
ffilXY. The funeral arrant-
ments Lad not been completed Ut night,
NO-LICENSE GAINED
FOUR MASS. CITIES
Fall River, Haverhill, Leominster and
Taunton Shifted Into Dry Column
as Result of Tuesday'i Election
Boston, Dee. 6. No-license forces
gained four new successes in the election
held in fifteen Massachusetts cities yos
terday. Fall River, Haverhill, Leomin
ster and Taunton shifted from the wet
to the dry column. ' The license advo
cates were not successful in effecting any
changes, Brockton, Salem, Cambridge
and Wtllham remaining no license.
New Bedford, while keeping to the wet
column, did so by a greatly reduced mar
gin. The vote count for license last
year was cut from 3,230 to 4H6 after a
sensational campaign in which Protest
ant and Catholie clergymen united to
make tha jity dry.
The shift of Fall River into the dry
column marked the end of a long per
sistent light that had been waged by
clergymen of All denominations against
liquor interests. It was the first victory
for the no license forces since 1008.
Only eleven of the cities elected may
ors this year and of this number not
one was chosen as a Democrat. The Re
publicans were successful in seven con
tests, the other four bearing no national
party designation.
A feature of the election in Spring
field was the vote on substituting a so
called federal charter for the old one.
The voters decided to retain the present
form of government
WOULD EMBARRASS TRADE
If Great Britain Should Refuse to Coal
U. S. Ships.
Washington, D. C Dec. 6. Curtail
ment of coaling privileges at British
ports is threatening far-reaching effects
on American shipping and while repre
sentations have haen made to Great Brit
tain by the state department, it is real
ized hers that it may be difficult to ob
tain any alleviation of the constantly
tightening restrictions imposed by the
British authorities. Officials point out
that the right to coal at foreign port
is based almost entirely on internation
al comity, and that treaty pledges in the
present instance are not of a nature to
make the case entirely clear.
Great Britain's inability to guarantee
bunker coal to any Vessel not utilizing
it "in such a way that British or allied
interests are benefited" was announced
yesterday in a statement by the British
embassy in the form of a memorandum
drawn up in London. The announcement
is the first public expression, officials
say, ot a policy which has in tact been
operation for some time, and which,
has brought forth protests by this coun
try in several cases. Many American
ships have been refused coal, it is de
claredl arid consequently held tip for
from three days to a week, with a re
sult ing "heavy loss to their owners.
The general effect of this policy, offi
cials believe, will be to seriously em
barrass all independent American trade
with non-allied countries It Is de
clared that trade between this emmtry
and the Philippines, for instance, can
be conducted only under the greatest
difficulties, as lireat Britain owns most
of the coaling stations along the way.
Trade to South America is expected to
lie crippled also because most of the coal
ing facilities in harbors there are owned
by the British-
KmnfinA nomnlinnl DM
J HtJ in at f riiuiiini nic tnui rnif n.i uv
believed hereto be largely responsible
for the new ruling, their inroads on world
shipping influencing the allies to con- Peninsula ami urtent. passenger ",:
serxe their vessels and fuel. Not only cording to survivors, was torpedoed witli
w . .hr.rt f .l.m fnr thn ear- 'out warning. One American aboard es-
rying trade, it Is said, but a desire to
hold as few vessels as possible in carry
ing coal to v.-.rious stations about the
world.
"VERMONT BAPTIST DAY."
In Billy Sunday Tabernacle in Boston
Tuesday.
Boston, 1)ec. 0. It was Vermont day
at the Hilly Sunday tabernacle on Hunt
ington avenue yesterday for only three
Baptist ministers of the state were ab
sent from the afternoon and evening t
t.limS
services.. Ut the three, two were unaoie,"
...... .. .
to come to Boston and the third is him
self an evangelist filling engagements.
Two hundred and seventy-five Baptist
clergymen and laymen attended the serv-
: , . i. . i ....-. . n, , j ...... w
Bond of Brattleboro, director of the
Silas A. Ilsley of Middlebury, who are
financing the delegation for a week's
visit in Boston.
"The trip will mean an evangelist
preaching in every pulpit of our denom-
inufiiin in Vnr ri, it ' tt'fl tllfl lirpdlC-
tion of Mr. Bond. He had heard com-
ments from many members of the party,
all favorable to the Billy Sunday type of ( off the Spanish coast. One sailor, re- : the members of the t a ertonia count j oar.
preaching. Many of the Vermont min-! ported to be an American, was wounded -but only two from other counties. 1 he
isters were received bv Governor McCall, nv a shell and died in a hospital at Pala.;jury calendar was cal ed and only a doz
following the evening services, the gov- fr'ugell, Spain, where the survivors werejen cases set lor trial, so the prospects
ernor having paid a surprise visit to th
tabernacle. He opene.t the service with
speech in which he paid extravagant
praise to Billy Sunday.
VERMONT MAN KILLED.
Body of lohn McGray of Middlebury 1
Found in Lowell.
Lowell Mass.. Dec. f..-The mutilated
,1
ImsIt of a man. believed to be John Mc-
(Jrar of Middlebury, Vt., was found last
night in the yard of the Boston & Maine
railroad here after the passinc of a north
'bound express train. In the pixkets were
.... . 1
letter from the man's mother in Mid
dlebnry. datcj Xov. 28 last; post cards
of Springfield, Vt.: sn express company
receipt of Dec. . for .1. Atd.rav. Middle-
burv. Vt.. and sinned John Metirav. am:
a letter addressed to Walter K. Dorey
HH Main street, Springfield, Vt.
The body is in charge of James F
OTVinnell here.
SUICIDE IN PRISON.
Man Was Awaiting Trial 00 Charge of
Marder.
Boston. Pec. 6. Sabino Innacone. who
was awaitini; trial on the charge of hsv
ing mur.iereii 111 ......... v.. . n.ncii..
l!a i.i.uci. Sunday night, committed sin
o.rte py n..,tinc . in me , nar.c, .
street jail. Rappu.i was shot follow ing
a q-.arr.l with Innacne over the atten-
tion. .ll-P-l to have been P.,d by the
former to the latter s wife.
BOAT SHELLED
AS CREW OUIT
Steamship John Lambert,
Listed as American Vessel,
Sunk by a Submarine
HAD BEEN BARGAINED
FOR BY THE FRENCH
She Was Also Flying the
French Flag When
Attacked
New York, Dec. 6 The steamship John
Lambert, listed in the maritime register
as an American vessel, w,as shelled and j jKniiig Rimilar plants in other states has
sunk without warning by a submarine . ,,., ,,., $7,-,(, to $i,2it0 per patient,
off the Isle of Wight on November 22, Another dormitory, to cost not over $30,
acconling to members of the crew ofjooo, would bring this per capita cost
Americans who arrived to-day on the down to about . WOO, giving a capacity of
French lino steamship Espanne from
Bordeaux. The Lambert was one of
twelve vessels built on the Great Lakes
which the French line agreed to purchase.
According to her crew, the vessel had
not been turned over to French inter
ests but was en route to Havre for de
livery when she was attacked. The crew,
numbering sixteen, took to the small
boats and after being on the water for
. twelve hours reached the French coast
The submarine first made its presence
known by sending a shell through the
Lambert's bridge, according to the engi
neer, Edward Harrison, and the firing
continued while the crew were taking to
the. boats, twelve shots being fired.
i
The second officer of the Lambert sa
the vessel flew the French flag when s
went down and had been using the Hag
although the ship had not been formally
turned over to the French.
AGAIN WANTS TO KNOW.
Germany Continues Policy of Quiizing
the United States.
Washington, I). C, Dec. 6. A prelim
inary reply from Germany to the re
quest for information concerning the
sinking of the British liner Alaska was
cabled to the state department yesier-
day by the American embassy at Berlin.
It said a submarine commander had re
ported attacking the ship believing her
to bo an armitl transport, and asked
that the United States inform the im
perial government of any evidence it
might have about the incident and the
character of the vessel.
Secretary Lansing declined to comment
upon the communication further than to
say that it added nothing to the infor
mation in the hands of the department.
It. is understood that the G.-rman request
will be complied with, but it is nncer
tain whether a statement of the Ameri
can governments view will accompany
the information or be withheld pending
a further communication ir i,rrumn,i,
A similar situation exists in regard to
the case of the British horse ship Marina
on which six American horse tenders
,
lost their lives, and the character ot
1 which is in dispute. The Arabia of the
ennnd.
A review of the facts concerning Ger
many's recent submarine activities is in
the hands of President Wilson and action
on anv of the cases at issue await word
from him.
It was announced at the department
that Austria-Hungary had been a-ked to
make an investigation of the sinking
of the American steamer Chemung in the
Mediterranean November 28. The ques
tion of whether the vessel carried more
than fifty pcf cent contraband cargo, jus
tifying in the opinion of some authori
ties the sinking of a neutral cratt wnicn
.......... , .,! ;( nrt an.
Id KdllTlir 1H Illllfllll' lu tu 1.U I.J.v. ...
,..... ;- - , .
paremiy is me mn j"juv ... -
case.
Late in the day a briet consular ois
patch announced the sinking of the Ital
ian steamer Palermo with 25 Americana
aboard, off the Spanish coast
It gave
MANY AMERICANS ABOARD.
The Italian Steamship .Palermo Torpe
doed Off Spanish Coast.
Madrid, Dec. C. via Paris. The Ital
ian Kteamshin Palermo, with 25 Amer-
mn steamship Palermo, with 25 Amer-j
jeans on board, has been torpedoed (
landed. Three others were seriously
wounded by the torpeao.
The Italian st?amnip rai.Tmo ihi
. v i i - sin.l
,t was last reported as paing
She carried
(Jibraltar on ovemoer t.
l ... L .. .1 -.I A m 1 ... nr.
... ' .:.r-.i,. In .ddition to horses
she carried a general cargo.
n.. , - ......! if I.- a ai.i.l liprA
'at the offices of Harttield, Solari & Co..
1 V ' -. - "J "V": ...'-
ijft three-inch rifles mounted aft.
"These guns." said Mr. Solaro, '"were
carried for defense only."
Besides 5S8 mules and 163 horses, the
Palermo carried 1.452 cases of "T. X. T.,"
a powerful explosive, and tons of muni-
I tions and war supplies.
II ... . . . t . r . ..
jtr!ore tne war inc -
gaged in pssenger service between Xa
plc and Palermo, Italy, and this port.
HIS CASE NOLLE PR0SSED.
Peter Downey was wnarjeo wiin
tery After He Complained of Robbery.
Burlington, Dec. ".. The case against
i.,r linwnfT of Waterburv. who was
!. rrest.nl Saturday nicht on a warrant
1 :...! hi- States Attorney T. E. Hop-
ululterv.
was
-- - - ..it.,,,!.- .,,
t(im.r 1 Via ne v was .r-
. - - ;. , , - , .
- re-iM v -
arret on the charge of grand larcenv.
tit b. ing claimed that she took . from ,
him.
So Laundry Building at Feeble-Minded
School Will Not Be Built.
Burlington, Dee. Because the bids
wore too high, the construction of the
laundry building at the Vermont State
School' for Feebb-.Minded Children at
Biaudon will not Im- constructed at pres
ent. As an emergency measure, an old
shed and a henhouse have been converts!
into a laundry.
The original appropriation at the last
session of the legislature was for $(5.
000, and the total amount spent by the
commission up to the present time is
if.").'),000, which includes all money now
owed on contracts. The farm of 305
acres cost Jil 3,000, and the remainder has
boen spent for equipment, water works,
renovating the old buildings and the new
dormitory, which is almost completed.
The new dormitory is of cement con
struction, with stucco finish outside and
asbestos shingles, and is a modern fire
proof building with indirect heating and
ventilating system.
There are at present 4.1 inmates at the
institution, and the new building will in
crease the capacity by 70, so that with
the expenditure of the $.53,000 there is
accnnitnodaf ion for 111) in-mat.es. making
(i,(. 1)0r ,.anit cost of establishing the
,.i.,nt ahmlt s,-)0,i vt,il the cost of est ab
? rill patients, so that as dormitories are
added and the capacity thereby in
creased, the expeusc per capita will be
decreased.
It is estimated that even after the
new dormitory is put into use about the
first of January, there will be a waiting
list of from 75 to 100 applications. Cer
tain defects in the law relating to com
mitment of patients will bo corrected at
the coming session of the legislature by
minor amendments to the law.
NATION-WIDE ORGANIZATION
Of Milk Producers Was Started in Chi
cago Last Night.
Chicago, Dec. 6. Preliminary steps in
the organization of a national federation
of milk producers were taken last night
at the fourth national conference on mar
keting and farm credits, il was an
nounced that between 50,000 and 00,000
dairymen in every section of the I'nitcd
States had representatives in the new
organization.
The federation contemplates the map
ping of each dairy district in the country
with the object of eliminating the waste
through excessive competition in the open
markets by means of centrally estab
lished co-operative selling bureaus. The
plan has been successful in European
countries, particularly in Germany and
Russia, and in the marketing of other
farm products in some ectmns of this
country, according to Charles Holman,
secretary of the conference.
The dairymen contended that the or
ganization, which, it is expected, will be
perfected in about eix weeks, will lower
the price of milk to the consumer, put
the milk industry on a business basis
and prevent a repetition of recent milk
strikes in New York and Chicago.
A committee was appointed to draft a
provisional constitution and by-laws and
to make arrangements tor tne prenm
I jni)ry organizat .ion. Among those on the
eommitte are G. W. Bush of Kit t If Falls,
X. Y., and A. L. Brockway of Syracuse,
X. Y
HAS A DEFICIT.
Rutland County Farm Bureau Is Short
. $131.35.
Rutland Dec. 0. The Rutland County
Farm bureau has a deficit of $131.33 for
the year, according to the report of Sec
retary A. Vail Allen of Fair Haven, sub
mitted at the annual meeting held here
yesterday. In contrast, last year the or
ganization had a surplus of $20 hut this
was due to the fact that many .(members
paid in from $5 to $100 to give th mov
ment an impetus while the past year
they merely took out $1 inemlerships.
It was voted to start a sharp member
ship campaign to increase the funds in
the treasury. The membership at pres
ent is 205, about the same as a year ago.
There were 150 people at the meeting
yesterday, both farmers and their wives
attending. The attendance of women
was a new feature and a special session
was arranged for them.
46 DIVORCE ACTIONS
Are on the Calendar for Caledonia Coun
ty Court.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 6. The December
term of the Caledonia county court
opened here yesterday with Judge F. M.
Butler of Rutland presiding. There was
the usual attendance at the opening of
are that mis win ne a simii ir. .... ......
t .... .... ...... .
nine sime vs.-. ...
lu..itt-. o.. .... -
rnllinir the Wkt when the cast ot
Wright against irtue wss reached and
proclaimed by the clerk. The jury were
iemt.l
aneled veterit:v alternoon ana ie-
eeived the usual charge from the couit
TAPPED CITY MAIN.
cie . F0r . Brought
Lewifton, Me.
Teiriaton. Me.. Dec. . The city of
Iwiston has brought suit for $1imh!
agains-t the I.iley x Dingley mill, this
city, alleging that for 14 c.nseeutive
vers the mill has been using water for
domestic
purpo!
without revenue to
the city. Papers were served yesterday
on Harold S. Libbey, bead of the corpor-
jation.
The main which supplies a tire system
at the mill was tapin'd 15 years ago, ac-
Mv.linn til t ItA ril v' .'laim .n.l bin.- :
tIt time water has been used from
!,j,i source by the mill. !
I . J. lallahsn. clerk of the hoard ot
water commissioners. i credited wi:h
dicvery of the leak
Bv authority of
the board
meter was affixed t the
supply pipe, unknown to the mill outf
and
it was found that the fen-
auinot itn avcrm-rd .Vtfi ration iht ...
,kr . ---,,., n4 ,i,
T, ,,.. , t-,r
14 years The wn r. t..r.,..-le a. t..e
January term of the M.rre,.e court t-r
.Anaroscgg.n county.
SHIP MILK
TO BOSTON
Producers About Barre Ac
cepting Offer of H. r.
Hood & Son
.9"
3,000 POUNDS WERT
BILLED OUT T' 'AY
Prices Are Somewhat in Ad
vance of Those Received
from Other Sources
As a result of the work of the com
mittee appointed by the Barre Milk Pro
ducers' association to look up the possi
bilities of shipping milk and cream to
Boston, H. P. Hood fc Sons were accept
ing the product at the Central Vermont
freight yards this morning at prices that
are considerably in advance of those paid
ffom other sources.
Whole milk was paid for at the rate of
$2.26 per hundred pounds, with three
cents per hundred added for every tenth
of 1 per cent that the milk tests over 3.7
per cent, that is, 4 per cent milk will
bring a nine cent premium, making it
worth $2.34 per hundred pounds. Ten
cents per hundred pounds more are of
fered in premiums as follows: Proper
cooling six cents, nlk house two cents,
whitewash in stable one cent, four square
feet of window glass per cow one cent.
Xo contracts are made except by the
month, a patron delivering milk the first
day of the month is expected to deliver
it for the rest of that month. Milk cans
are furnished by the company and are
washed and returned by them.
B. A. Manchester of Randolph, the
Hood company's agent for this territory,
weighed and sampled the milk at the sta
tion this morning. About 3.0(H) pounds
will be billed out to-day. The freight
depot is being used as a receiving station
until some other building and more suit
able equipment can be obtained and fur
nished by the company- It is expected
that the car will be continued to Williams-town
within a few days.
The prices quoted above are probably
near the maximum for the year. Jan
uary, February and March prices will
probably decline somewhat.
CALEDONIA COUNTY BAR.
Elected Elisha May as President for the
Ensuing Year.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 6. 'aledoni Coun
ty Bar association held its annual meet
ing and election of olhVers following the
annual dinner at the New Avenue house
last evening. The officers elected for the
ensuing year are: President, Elisha
May, vice-president, Joseph T. Gleason
of LvndonviUe and Guy W. Hill was re
elected secretary and treasurer. Direc
tors, Alexander Dunnct. David E. Porter,
St. Johnsbury, nd Walter Dutton ot
Hardwick. t
President Harvey Blodgett presided at
the business meeting after dinner at 7
p. m. TVo minute talks were given by
each member present on the subject,
"Helpful Suggestions" to members and
the association. The fee bill was brought
up for consideration, following which the
officers for the ensuing year were elect
ed. NEED NOT BUILD UNDERPASS.
Two Vermont Railroads Were Exempted
from Provision of Law.
Brattleboro, Dec. 6 The Vermont pub-'
lie service commission at a hearing yes
terday granted the petitions of the Man-
hester, Dorset & (iranville railroad and
the Clarendon &. Pittsford railroad that
they be excised from building under
passes this year.
A petition' of the Xew England Tele
phone &, Telegraph company for permis
sion to issue not over 341 shares of stock
of the total value of 34,100 in exchange
for shares of the Vermont Telephone
Telegraph company at the par value of
$25 and of the Franklin County Tele
phone company at the par value of $10,
was granted.
The Xew Kngland Telephone company
is to give one share for four of the Ver
mont company and one for 13 of tho
Franklin company.
1,366 BUCKS REPORTED.
But Number Is Expected to Run Some
what Higher,
ille. Dec. 6. I n to the closing
hour of the hunting season which came
at S p. m. Tuesday, the total numoer 01
killings reported to the office of State
and (lame Commissioner Titeomb was
l,30ii. There will probably be a few
more sent in from the different counties
hut wpr sliot on the last day or had
not been reported by the local wardens'
offices before.
I llA I'llllII t Viv enimtics shows that
v;.,.ll,nn. la.lj -;th the number of bucks
shot. lfl, and K.ssex county runs second
with 150. The other counties lonow:
Addison. PI : Bennington, 137; Chitten
den. 37; Caledonia. !; Franklin, 22;
Umoille SO; Oranse. OS; Orleans, ;
P.utlanJ, 141; Washington, 14S; Windsor,
14f.
FELL FROM TRAIN.
L. D. Hackett, Brakeman, Was Hurt at
Orleans.
Orleans. Dec. L. D. Hackett, a
freight l-rikeman on the way freight,
wa badlv hurt by falling from a freight
car while shifting in the yard opposite
the freight otli.v late Monday evening.
He s taken on me nr-i nam n ...
home in' l!yn lonville. attended by Dr.
Well-. His'hcad was badly injured and
everal rib were broken.
Who's Cuilty" and "The Grip of Evil"
tt the Bijou to-day. adv.
P.r.. kti.-i l snd Fast Br.mkfelJ visitors
In the ritv to-day are W. F.. Huggard
and Mr. ni M's. J. M. Angel'.
