VOLUME XXXIl. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1916. NUMBi 20
LAURENS COMPAZ
TO ITS IIOMI
Will Reach Laurens About
2:25 P. M.
CROWDS EXPECTED
TO MEET THEM
The Boys will be Given a Great Wel.
come by (he Home Foilks. Definite
Plans for their Reception have not
Yet been Mhde. Away 'Nearly Six
Months.
After a stay away from home of
nearly six months, the local military
company, called by the home people,
the Traynham Gturds, and oflicially
styled Co. 1), 1st. S. C. Infantry, returns
today to its home station. The con
pany was mustered out of the reserve
service yesterday and resumed its
status as a part of the National Guard.
The company is expected to arrive on
the afternoon train from Columbia,
due at the passenger station at 2:2-5
p. mll. A great outpouring of citizens
Is expected to greet the soldiers upon
their return.
The company returned to Camp
Moore near 'Columbia with the other
units of the First Regiment Thursday
after a stay on the Mexican border of
about three months. The regiment was
called to the colors by Pres. Wilson
on ,June 8th, when a break with the
Mexican de facto government was im
minent. The local company was In its
armory the following morning and on
June 23rd left for Camp Moore near
Columbia, wh'"'e it remained in camp
until the first week in August. From
there it was sent to El Paso, Tex.,
where it has been encamped for most
of the time. Be'sides undergoing train
ing to fit them for soldier duty, the
regiment was put on patrol duty for
several weeks. The regiment acquit
ted itself well on the border and won
high praise for its conduct and efilcien
cy.
Sergeants i'ichelberger and Dial and
Private Randolph Little were mus
tered out in Texas. The first two re
mained In Texas where they have se
cured employment. Private Little was
at home several days ago, but will re
turn West. All the remaining mem
hers of the company will arrive today.
Capt. Arthur Lee and Lieutenants I).
Rt. Simpson and J. F. Smith will come
with them. It is understood that one
of the officers will have to return to
Columbia for several days to finish the
work of checking up.
The Second Regiment and the cay
airy troop from Charleston are still'
on the border and it is not known
when they will return.
The men of the First Regiment were
given a barbecue and otherwise lion
ored in Columbia Monday, a grand
parade being held which was review
ed by G1ov. Manning and other ofilcials.
Asa Todrnd Woundled.
AMr. J. Asa Todd, who was accideont
ally shot by Allen llarksdale, near
ilarkadale stationi ThanksgivIng day,
is still confined to the hospital and is
sitffering intense pa in from his Injury.
M\r. Todd and M1r larksdale wer'e out
hu tnting ThanksgIving (lay wvhen the
run of Alr. Ilarksdale was accidentally
diischiargedi, the 10lilt hiting .\m'. Toddl
in the leg. Althlough serious resuilts
are not anitlpated, M\r. Todd is suf
ferIng much pain from thle injturmy. ills
mianny frie':ds hope for htim ani early
recovery.
To (lve Chtristas ('heeks.
(Cashier Earle Owings saId yester
(lay that the Chiristmnas Savinigs Club
of thle Farimers Natiloal IhItniik hiad
been a succ'ess from every stanidpolint
amd that chieek~s wou0tld he hanided memi
her's of the, clu ath lis week. Th'Ie planI
hasi giveni (considera~le limpetums to( sav
ings, he. said,1
Meiimers of the Chistmi as K;avings
Clu oftij Peples Ioan& I'xchan iige
l a1' will( be1glddened (luringth
savings ('heeks wViiili e anded to thaemi
-by the hank oillals. The savings
clubi was a great succou, aeoerdiug 19
M r. McOuen, who spoke of it yesterday,
Thie plan fair exceeded our expections,
lie 44d the'd(epiosits amounting to at
lea ta tiitrd hloro lijan they ha4.ex
neeted.,
IY RETURNS
STATION TODAY
Revival Meeting Continues.
The revival services, being conduct
ed at the First Presbyterian church by
Rev. Geo. W. Belk, continues to at
tract large congregations at both
morning and evening services. Rev.
C. F. Rankin, pastor of the church, has
issued an invitation to the -public to
'at ,nd and he would be glad to have
anyone, regardless of denominational
leanings, to be present. Services are
held in the morning and in the even
ing.
.Mceting of 1)6 A. I.
The Ilenry Laurens chapter, 1). A.
R., will meet Friday afternoon at 3:30
o'clock with Mrs. M. L. Copeland.
leo. Ferguson Here.
Private Geo. Ferguson, of the Trayn
ham Guards, has been in the city sev
eral days, having left the company at
Columbia. lie talks very interestingly
of his experiences on the border, but
says he does not care for any more of
it. All of the boys are well, he said.
and are anxious to be home.
Winter Horse Apples.
The latest thing out in the fruit
line is the winter horse apple, or
rather a second crop horse apple. Capt.
J. \V. Lanford brought one to the city
the other day aid was showing it to
a group of interested frends. Capt.
Lanford stated that the treb that bore
this one had about twenty others on it.
lie kindly presented it to the editor.
(Interval here while the editor tries
it out). It tasted alright, too. If any
body else has any freaks of this na
ture, bring 'em along. How about
second crop watermelons?
Christmas Sale.
The ladies of the Eviscopal church
will hold their annual sale in the store
room next to the Powe Drug Company
Thursday afternoon, iDec. 14th. The
public is invited to attend and inspect
the many beautiful things they will
have for sale.
llrown-ilryson.
Mr. George Bryson, of Mountville,
and Miss Laura Brown, daughter of
Mir. George P. Brown of near Prospect,
were married W~edlnesdiay afternoon at
Waterloo, at the honie of the oficiating
minister, the R1ev. R. (I. Lee. The
bridal party' w~as complosedl of a numn
ber of membhers of both families and
a few friends who made thle trip by
automobile from the home of the
bride to Waterloo. The groom is a
young farmer who resides ntear
Moiuntvill1e, while his bride is a very
attractive young lady andi possesses
imanty charms and graces.
Congriessmaun-clect iFred ii. D~omui
tick, and ii, ii. Evans, iNsq.,,1of New
herriy, wer'e herie aittendilng thle sales:
.\ondaiy. Mrit. E~vanus, wh'lo rehided hern
antd was one t imte mayor of thle city,
re ne wed ma~tny old 'aeiunin ances and
told niany amtuisinmg stories of his eix
perience as "chic[, executive" of the
city at thait tine. Mr'. Evyans, thr toutgh
his a gen ts, b~oughit it the Wash fluniiter'
lands. ,, - - -
Hei. BV. A. Fairy. and family ariivph .
in ,the eti. the l'atter part of hitst week
ni id( I(fV(dtiniel iii thme' e
Miethiodfl~bt ' 'asdn'o. Mi'. a'it'y
iurene'hed. his fir'st soermon at. the M\et ly
odist chiur'chi Sunday morning and
pleased a .lar'ge congregation wvith a
very interesting and~ foiceful sermon.
Rev. .1. R1. T.'Major, whlo precedeu Mr'.
Fairy, left for Spartanburg last week
whec he wil lIahn unp his ne~w duities.
BIG COTTON FIlE IN COLUMBIA.
Fire Destroys Shed, Machinery and
2,500 ltales of Cotton of Warehouse
Company.
Columbia, Dec. 2.-The shed, ma
chinery and 2,500 bales of cotton of
the Columbia Compress land Ware
house company tonight were destroyed
by fire of unknown origin, entailing a
loss of $250,000, which is fully cover
ed by insurance. This morning insur
ance in the sum of $35,000 was taken
out and $20,000 of this amount was
placed with the South Carolina Fire
insurance company, which was In
corporated shortly after the new fire
insurance law wont into effect in this
state.
The fire was discovered at 10:45
o'clock and soon the entire front of
the building was a mass of flames
and for awhile endangered the plants
of the Southern Cotton Oil company,
the Texas Oil Company and other
nearby industrial plants.
livery niember and all the available
equipment of the entire Columbia fire
department combined in heroic efforts
to check ae flames which foga time
seemed almost uncontrollable. A still
niught was of decided advantage to the
filemnen.
At one o'clock the fire appeared to
be undler control, and there was little
danger of fourthers, although some of
the cotton was smouldering.
The cotton wh.ich was dlestrioyed
was located under the shed and this
burned quickly. A brick firewall
protected several thousand bales of
cotton In the warehoue.
Officials of the company were per
plexed h'st night to understand the
origin of the fire. Not the slightest in
dication of a cause had been found
and it is ery probable that it never
will be known as the scene this
morning is only one of charred re
mains.
Disastrous as it was, the fire was
also very spectacular and %htundreds
of people came from all directions on
foot, by automobiles and in other
conveyances from the city and sur
rounding suburbs. The glare was
visible for miles around and it seem
ed as if the whole of that industrial
section would be wiped out by the
confiagration.
Braving the intense heat which
held the crowds back at safe dis
tance the firemen dashed to the
burning buildings and fought val
lantly for nearly two hours. While
some of the firemen were overcome
there were no serious injuries.
A Successful Football Sieason Ended.
The, Laurens high school team play
ed its last football game of this sea
son against Anderson high school on
Thanksgiving. This game was played
under adverse circumstances, several
of the players being hurt and others
away for Thanksgiving, but the team
played with its usual grit and skill
and tied the score, 3 to 3.
With this game was ended a very
successful football season for the lo
cal team. Out of eight games played
with high school and preparatory
s('hool teams, only one game was lost.
(Greenville has credit for dlefeating the
Lauirens team, this being the first
games in, two seasons. Trhe gamnes
playedi this season 'are as followvs:
Wofford Fitting School, two games:
A nderson high school, two; Greenm
w~oodi high school, Iwo V.:iue WVest high
school, one; and Grecenvillec high
school, one. The t wo0 game OISwith Wof
fbrdl and 'Anderson wer'e tied, so neili~
cir of these teaiiw is victor -ovei the
other.
'1Top boys o .the hi1gh school wh'lo
hind the honori of coat riblutin g to t he
suicce5n of the te'am ar'e-as follows:
.'fi pi. I high IEighelhlwrgeri, F. it.
Algr. I lairy' AeAl istei', C'.
Chlies (Crisp, Q. it.
i''ra t nt Dhc and Warvn Hot (1. il .'
Winfield 'ulr 1
10 ti'liam . tOr'kl he tde i , .n
'rt 'abouitoc ane nuarvinu easns
.Iiaio theOatm atvtUentionedn give 1
bon..Itb ti'aope tat thawllaai
S A YElt OF .B. E. WOLFF
APPltElENDED IN AlRKANSAS
'Negro Arrested There for the Crime
Said to have Made Full and Free
Confession.
That the slayer of Boyce E. Wolff,
formerly of this county, who was killed
at Lobdell, Miss., in October, has been
arrested in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, is
contained in a news dispatch sent out
from that city November 23rd. Itead
ers' of this paper will remembbr that
the deceatced man, son of Mr. John: H1.
Wolff of the Slbiioh section ' of this
county, was killed by a negro labbrer
on the farm which Mr. Wolff was man
aging in 1ississippi following it dis
pute over the time of payment of wag
es due the negro's wife. From the ac
counts puiblished at that time, it ap
peared that the killing was done in
cold blood and the slayer escaped, kill
ing three negroes as he fled away. Mr.
Wolff had been in Mississippi about
2 1-2 years when he met his death.
The following is the account of the
capture taken from a daily paper of
that sect:ion
"'Pine iBltff, Ark., Nov, 23.---Coy An
(ler'son, negro wanted by the authori
ties of Ilolivar county, Miss., on chrage
of murder, is under arest here, and it
was announced today by Chief of Po
lice .1. Frank Stewart, that the negro
has iade a full and free confession to
him of the crime. Anderson, accord
ing to circulars issue by Sheriff (. L.
Dean of iosedale, is wanted for the
murder of a white man named 1) E.
Wolff at Ilobdell on Oct. 12, last. Re
wards aggregating $850 have been of
fered for his arrest, $100 by the State
of Mississippi and $750 by JIolivar
County authorities and people, this
portion of the reward being on deposit
with a bank at Ilenoit for the capture
of the negro dead or alive.
Sheriff Dean has been informed by
telegraph of the arrest and confession
of the negro here."
M.AI)E FLA ( PIt ESENTATION.
Miss Julia Irby made Presentation of it
Ieautiful Silk Flag to iraded School'
Interesting exercises were held In
the a uditorl im of the graded school
Wednesday morning preceding ithe
'T'hanksgiving recess, when a flag was
presented to the school by .\liss .Julia
Irby in behal f of ile Ilenry Laurens
ehapter, Daughters of the American
lievolItIon. Miss Irby made a very
appropriat address for the occasion
making a strong appeal to the patri
otism of the children. The flag, of
beautiful k. teoture, was forild 1y
unveiled aer her speech and the chil
dren then arose and sang the Star
Spangled hlanner' Supt. Parkinson
aecepted the flag for the school In a
few well chosen words and the chil
dren then stood and saluted it. It now
hangs on the wall in the rear of the
stage where the children may see it
whenever they enter the auditorium.
I)e24dgates to ('ommercial ('ongress.
(or. R. I. \anning has naeid the
fol lowing Iauriiens counity men as (d
egates to thle Southern't C'otmmtetcial
C'onigress, whiich meets in Norfolk the
nhiddle of this tionth:i
M\. .J. Owings, Launrengs;:. 1 I. Win
ier, Lauirens; Itrooks F'wygerit , 1Lau
itenOs; . oei. II.ll linton .l . W.ti
itotp e 'l , ('linton; :1. L'. ( iariy, Grtay
W.g .its, oss liill; W. it . .\ lem
N.i II. t il , a rns .C S iz r
D.;al it%. WetbtN. t cit'n iThadt~
Sumer alv into ; W.ab Ir. tiaris. (tiray0
itggant , i ros Iu li l W. 1i 1'C '. l ie'n
Puitg by lie isia'Valion of' .1-:.Isei.
.Sltr, wilaod aoh!' .Intaaion 1 of
('oier ii th \tsoie~ !. al .enay
neigh,'i2l Dec it h,(I ) t 7:0't I o e :k Ih
meaetn to b0 se'a nsuayinterIt
feshint by wlhe soced f .\li.tiouthe
I~andt'Pr of t lie evnalag.f't'le pub-e
Qaietei(lll vte and svrlooit, 'ge-t
latter at fte vniglheb
BACK FROM WASIINGTON.
iepnt.y SherihY ('iande L. Owings and
J. W. IDavenport Return with Pris
oner.
Deputy Sheriff Claude Owings and
A1r. .tiln W. Davenport returned Mon
day morning from Washington, D. C.
with Isaac Jones, -colored, wanted in
this county for killing Willie -Martin,
near Cross Hill, about fifteen years
ago . The trip was made by the Ford
route and according to their story of
the trip there were few dull moments.
They left here last Wednesday and
made good time nearly all of the way.
With the exception of two punctures,
little trouble was had with the auto
mnobile, although the car did turn over
on them one time just before they
reached Washington. They were rid
ing along over some beautifully paved
country ro:~1 when their lights sud
denly wet. out. As they were ap
proaching at short curve, they could not
see how to turn so they went over tie
cli) and into aln embankment. No
body was hurt and no damiage was
done, so they turned the car back over
and proceeded on their trip. When
Ihey reached a1nurens Monday morn
ing with their prisoner, they were a
little dusty and tired, but none the
worse for the trip.
The negro was located through the
means of a letter which ihe mailed to
one of his relaives and which got in
to the wrong hands. The sheriff and
officers have been on his trail for sev
eral weeks and were notified last week
of his arrest In Washington. lie will
very likely he tried for his life at the
,next terni of court.
MlANY S.LiES MONDAY.
Large Nunber Attended Legal Sales
and Much Land ('hanged lands.
.Monday being the legal salesday for
December, a large number of people
were in the city to attend them. The
following sales were imade by the
coinly ollicers of the courts:
Nherifi''s Sales,
Ione it. & L.. association vs .iudge
S-toddardi et at, lot in city of i~laurens,
ol"d to A. C. Todd, Atl'y., for $50.
Allee A. .cClintock et ai vs It. A.
.tones et al---'T'ract No. 1, to T. H. I len
rV furnace :'o.. for $1,0t11l; 'T'ract No.
'S to V. .\. ilabb, Ag1., for $1,.)01.
Mster of fireeIood ('ounty.
r;z-eenwh,-od Loan & (Inarantee Co. vs
It. It. Tolbert, .Jr., 251 acres in Sulli
1an township, to T. P. Tolbert, $7,950.
(lerk of Court.
.1. C. Smith, Ind. and as Exec. vs
.lennie A. MeChesney, 200 acres in
Waterloo township, to .1. C. Smith for
Sallie V. Islanchett et at vs .\Mrs. I.
Taylor lill et al, 78 acres to Mrs.
Itlanchett for $1,000.
). .\. Ileeks vs ilattile Johnson, Tract
No. I, 159 acires, to It. U. IBabb, attor
ney, for $2,300; Tract No. 2, 91 3-I
acres, to It. I-,. Ital'b. attorney, $1,300.
.J. A. Itiddle et al vs It. L. (iray, 5-i
aces in Yi .ugs townushi.ip, to . Alien
itiddle I for $1,530.
.\lara in Wilson vs .tames~ ~ Pt'''son,
lot in (City of Lau-eiis, to .1. WN. I i-.
dhersoni, hJr., $200i.
J1. WN. Allen vs 31lis. Luia \ltoore. lot
ini towni of ILnford.i to i )r. C. 1). I aun
for' $1 ,550.
J. (',. .\la-tin vs A. F. .\larlin el at, lot
in city of i-auirens, to it. E. tallb, Att'y.
for $75.
-\. I-. Philp lalv .:. h li s
l'2 1-2 acres. ini Wau-rloo i(own-thip, to
.\. TF. lliips for $1,::00.
l(Oi tishi- .\merian .\lortgage- (o., vs
as~ aCris5 toi W. I. Whiarloin, $0i.; Trtmu
No. 2, :77i :a-r-s, to iteunn-tt, Shandsl, &
.\ct ()Vnwa, .\itorneyvs, $-,l-(t.
I -wygert Ni Xc!s & (o., vs .\rihur I).
Palna et l Tra<. No. I, :lt mmers,
TraeI 2. E Iies, Ito .\1r-. L. .\h. IPeden,
$21:.: Tact- -I, I i(n ma-ies. 10 .\a'
-a zizlon. S 1.iui; No. ., :27 .12res. to .\i.
\. 1. P a ::.i i, a . - '44 ; No. -,7
! ';.tP u n . im I:I . ii.2 I: No. !'-. I 2
are-s,- to (lauide L.. ()'.inu:s, tll .
.\!ehielt P'laic- Tra.Il 1.- 25 - o ,
I14celbetrg Site.
W,,ashi Ilunteru, et :tt, enitire let sold t
1'. II. D~ominkk Agt m, or $13en2
News Letters From Many
Sections.
CORRESPONDENTS
GIVE LOCAL NEWS
Iluppenings of Interest to ]Many People
All Over the (ounty and to Those
Who hale left the Family Hearth-4
stone.
Eh M NEWS.
lCkoin. Dec. -i.--'i'he weather cont in
ues fine and the farmiers have about
gathered in their Crops and are sow
ing grain.
Rev. .1. O. Mart in preached a fine
sermon Sunday. lie ha:; preached for
ius the past two years but will riot
stay with ts another year. We are
sorry to see hint leave and wish for
h1im success wherever he goes.
We had with it, at church Sunday
several visitors, amIong whom wer
Mr. and Mrs. J. Wade Culhertson, Mr.
and .\Irs. (ary Culberlson of Water
loo and they were guests of Mr. It. I3,
Coley and family. Also Mr. E. E. Pltts
ald family of the Poplar sct ion, they
being guests 0f .\lo . andi Mrs. C. C,
Caldwell.
Our t'hanksgiving ex 'r( i.es by the
children were good and despite the
inclemency of the weal ther, we had a
very good attendance and a good din
ner.
Miss 'Myrtle ulberitson spent
Thanksgiving with homefolks
Mr. and Mrs. Dave Wardell and
children of Enoree are spending a few
days with relatives here.
Mrs. Margaret Moore an'cd Miss Sara,
Cooper spent Tihanksgiving and a few
days with .Mrs. \loore's son, .M1r, Irir.'
Blox of Spartanburg.
\liss Myrtle (ulbert'on and brothel'
Roy, had as their ruiects for a few
hours Saturday night, lisses Spiers
and 1)hnwoody, .\lis 11onie Cooper and
brothers, .lay and Gray . Miss .Jessie
('iultertson anti .\li. ('allie Culhertson.
Miss 141uelle I'ullcrtson and Mr.
lay Cooper sx ill Sunday with their
friend Miss Winona. (haney of 1Lau
rens. While there they attendei
('hurnh at the Second llaptist churl.
and their hearts were made glad to
hear the 1lev. J. A. Brock preach one<
more of his excellent sermons.
.\Mr. Giary Godfrey of Fountain Inz.
spent a few clays with his t'rother, Mr.
Floyd Godfrey and other relatives
here.
Born to Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Godfrey,
on December 2nd, a daughter.
PIlINCIETON NEWS,
Princeton, Dec. 4.-Dr. .Q.West
and family of h'eenville have been
visting relatives in ibis section
Cadets Walter Davis and Elbert
iFreemana of ('lemn e s cenlt TPhanks-.
giving with home0(foltks herel.
.r.and Mi's.,l. I". Mct'ue n anad chil
dren together wit h Messrs C'harles .dfe
4.ulen andle .1. T1. IDvieoi't m1otor'ed to
;Greenv)1i!!e 1"r'lay afterinooni.
2.liSs itiarnie Wallace sient the
weekc ('nd w.ithi I hin Cfolk n( eat'r Gray,
(cour t.
'he 'c'lary scelety oft the c'rheor~
heI6- a nod in \;,edi i .day after..
noon land remh-rced a vir: inlterestin.
Tihanksa iving Ii og amt.
'The friemds of Mlr. M. P.XMc'( 'en will
regr~ et toC learni tha he in r, ight sick~
ait his h1om44 e Ilte her
Mr. andi .\l cs. Il m iin vtheck ccr iltori,
of the late V'inl''nt AuIrtinl diedc last;
Mdlleay allot no1on1 at tie hoccce of hter
inephtew 1'rank!I~ ain nce' lc': :' e. She
lad bcecn ill fi0di0 bhi' f oc a lon.'
at Fr'n h el heuci - nd wlitet
'h'. \. I .l cv and siLr I.nc
