' The only people who should not " 7
Vr.
44'
: f For the Best Holiday Goods and
. the Best Holiday Bargains, consult
the Advertisements of the LIVE
' Merchants in this" Paper.
- advertise are those who have nothing ,
to offer the world in the way of tJ
cnrnmotv or service'- Hubbard. " t
Ti.- ,1 M .1 I.I. I- -
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER. G, ,1910.
VOL. X
J, NO.
Jo N
10
$1.25 A YEAR
business n;
, .
Foil Sale Two Houses in Hyde Park Vil
lage: alo, Small Farm, 75 acres.
Box 76, Hyde Park, Vt.
For Sale. Edison Oscillating Mimeograph
in good condition. . "'
Wahren Leather Co., Morrisville.
To Let. House on Neweomb farm. Would
prefer man who will work for owner
. T. A. Woodard, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hyde Park.
" Wanted. Rough Spruce and Fir Pulpwood"
See us at once for prices and particulars.
C. H. Stafford & Sons, Morrisville.
Magazines and Periodicals. Special
Clubbing Offer for any combination. See us be
lore making up your otder.
II." J. EPMUNDi, Morrisville.
For Sale. One pair Traverse Sleds, 1 Lum
oer Wagon, 1 Buggy Wagon, 1 Sleigh, 1 Driving
Harness, 1 Work Harness, 2 Buffalo Robes and
Slankets. C. D. Oakes. Johnson.
Strayed. From my njountain pasture, two
2-jear-old Heifeis, with hole punched in right, ear.
Anyone having such in his possession, please noti
fy . Norton J. I'jNas, R D. 2, Hyde Park.
For Sale. Three 2 horse Sleds, two Bob 1 Saturdav
.1 cl ...... - u..- J
nesses( 15-Horsepower Gas Engine. Anything at
iialt value. C. A. Simmons, Stowe.
Small Farm For Sale: Ten room house,
barn, and about 15 acres of land, situated in Stowe
Hollow. Any one wanting a small place to keep
a few cows will rind this a bargain at $1200.
Inquire of C. A. Simmons, Stowe.
Order Now. For March shipment if you
want your Fertilizer material, at lowest possible
xost. For orders placed before Dec. 15 we can
secure the same price as the Cal. Co. Ass'n on
their orders for over 800 tons. See me about this
at once. Also Lime for SDring use can be bought
cheaper now than again this winter.
,W. S. Newcomb, Purchasing Agent.
N. B. Will deliver at any station where can
secure a carload order,-
Christmas
Opening
Friday, Dec- 8
Not a large line, bat a good line of nse
iul and appropriate Out Goods.
Saturday, we will have a Special
Sale of-Fleece-lined and Muslin Under
wear. Low Prices for Quick Sale. '
. THE ECONOMY STORE
Champeau Block, Morrisville, Vermont
MORRISVILLE
Mrs. B. W. Ward ot the Elmore road s1
ill and confined to the bed.
' Miss Bertha Durgan went Monday to
Burlington for a few days visit.
-The condition of Mrs. M. B. White
who has been quite ill the past week, is
improving. -
' William Pates, who has: been cutting
Christmas trees at Belvidere, spent Sun,
day at his home here.
Leon Ward was in Burlingtonl'Fnaray,
going to see his mother, Mrs. ,W. O.
Ward, at the Mary Fletcher Hospital.
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Parker of Johnson
have come to the farm home of his broth
er, H. E. Parker, for an extended slay.
Mrs. Georgianna Stevens and grand
daughter. Miss Mildred Stevens, went
to Woicester, Mass., rwhere
Mr. and Mrs. Stevens have located.
Mrs. Mary. Bedell, who has been ill
for several weeks, went to Mary Fletch
er hospital today for . treatment. She
was accompanied by her daughter, Mrs.
Roy 0. Stafford.
Miss Lucille G. Robinson went to Bur
lington Saturday evening, where She was
a guest of Mr. and Mrs. E. 0. Walter,
going to Barre Sunday afternoon to re
sume her school work.
Mr. and Mrs. 1. C. PecV who have
spent the summer with -their daughter,
Mrs. W. O. Jeffords, a Pine Crest Farm
in Hard wick, left Tuesday, night for
Richmond, Va., where they will spend
the;, winter with their daughter, Mrs.
Wm. Clark. They also plan to visit Mr
Peck's brother in XJhicago before return.
ing home.'"- -
At the annual meeting of the W. R. C.
held last Saturday afternoon, the officers
of the past year, were re-elected and, will
be printed later with the appointive of
ficers. Following the business the old
veterans were pleasantly surprised by a
number of the W. R. C. ladies who called
and proceeded to act as hostesses at an
informal affair, when refreshments of
donghnuts and coffee were served. The
time was pleasantly spent in.singing the
old war songs, in which Lyle Tillotson
assisted, also singingseveral solos, which
weie much enjoyed. ,
Welch Parker
Mr. and Mrs. James Martin of Glovi r,
E. A. Markham ot Wnodsville, N J I.,
and Mr. and Mrs. A. C. da wing ol Lis
bon. N. K.,1 were week-end guests ol Mrs.
Mary Canty and Dr. J. M. Canty.
Stanley Pennock, one of the three chem
ists who were killed by an explosion of
chemicals while working in a laboratory'
at Newark, N J., last week Tuesday,
was a son of John Pennock of Syracuse,
N. Y and a grandson of the late Snniut.1
Pennock, 4 former resident '6f Morris
town, the donor of the clock on the Uni
versalist church. Mr. Pennr ck was 25
years old and a noted football plnver,
being guard on the Harvard team in
1912, 13 and 14. He occasionally v sited
Vermont," being a nephew of Mrs, E. B.
Sawyer of Hyde Pai k.
This evening at 6 o'clock at the Con
gregational parsonage occurred the mar
riage of Miss Shirley Mae Parker, daugh
ter ol Mr. and Mrs. H. E. Parker of the
Randolph road,, and Delbert Hall Welch,
son of Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Welch ot the
Elmore road, Rev. W. E. Baker perform
ing the ceremony. The couple were un
attended. " ...
! Following the ceremony a wedding
supper was served at the home of Mr.
aii'i Mrs. Parker. '
Hoth bride and groom are among Mor-
risville's highly esteemed and popular
(young .people having always resided in
I town and were students of Peoples
Academy in the classes of '14 and '15.
The bride has also taught in the rural
schools of this town.
The young couple have a host of friends
who extend congratulations and best
wishes. They will be at home to their
friends at the Welch farm on the Elmore
road. - .
That Talking Machine
far Christmas a large size full oabiuet
for only $75. Terms easy. Send for cat
alogun. Gbo. D. Jabvis A Soar,
Burlington, Vt.
GIVE SOMETHING TO WEAR
GREATEST
CHRISMS
And bigpst values that have ever been assembled in this store are now being distributed
and made ready so that when you come here to make vour gift selection, you will be able
-to do so without any difficulty.
Gifts for the man, the woman, the boy and the girl
Every article in this immense stock is most useful and practical for Christmas Gifts.
Gifts at anv Drice vou want, tn nnv fmm iho R.innt tTovwl-
Tou will find everything m the line of Fancy Articles for Women and Children, as well as
mc tuirsii kuujiui lituic vjarmenis ana rurs.
FOR MEN AND BOYS
It is hard for us to describe in this space the varied articles that are properly pre
pared and which i will make the most appropriate Christmas Gifts for the Man and the
jvji. o cun. wear jeparcmenc cannot De surpassed.
Everything is so reasonably priced that your Christmas money will go a long way here.
SPECIAL MARK DOWN SALE
fin Wnmfin .Cr Sll tC anH PnatO Ration & m I-? to 1-2 from
wii iiwiiiwiiw wuiiu uiiu uuuiui me original low price and real values
v. on all Suits and Coats. mr
The Woman, who has deferred getting er a Suit or Coat until now, will wisely
.come and examine the wonderful values this Mark Down Sale presents.
The assortments are not limited to a few garments but there are hundreds of Suits
and Coats of this season's latest fashion and popular models in all colors.
Suits and Coats for the small Girl in the Junior sizes, Misses sizes, and the reg
ular and stout sized Woman. Models fashioned for every form.
woman, who can use another Suit or Coat for hard service or for a dress oc
casion, will find among this varied assortment the ideal garment for the cost.
A. J. SALEEBY, Johnson, Yt.
THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY
Opening Day Dec. 8
' Morrisville merchants are planning to
make next Friday, December 8, opening
day for the holiday business and in many
of the stores will be found some of the
largest and most complete stocks of gift
goods ever displayed in town. Some es
pecially attractive decorations and win
dows suggesting the holiday spirit are
now attracting attention and our read
ers will find the advertisements of Mor-
risville's leading merchants filled with
practical suggestions, which will prove
money-savers for shoppers who cdnsult
them before starting out.
The Masonic Fair
Trie Masonic Pair committee met at
the ball last Wednesday night and made
an ut!ine of the program for each night,
whifch will be ready for publication soon.
Tie following is a list of prizes added
to those already printed: watch, sheet
music, 100 cigars, grave markers, elec
tric flat-iron, punch set. two lunch tickets,
twe accident policies paid for three
monthsfpuntain pen, swing cradle, one
bu. potatoes, clock, $10 worth dental
cron'-work, automobile horn, washing
machine, $2 00 worth of groceries, one
pair Douglass shoes, jardiniere,5 arals.
mobile 'oil, silk shirtwaist, ladies- $10
coat, -one gat olives, six pullets, umbrella,
fever thermometef, hand sled, two shav
ing tickets, 25 pStwifls erf. sugar, one box
cigars,, one pr. partts,' ladies skirt, two
wagon jacks, one pr.'urlind gloves, one
pair silk mitls. ' , '' .V'
All merchants and others who give
presents will be given free advertising
space on the wall of the hall.
A Musical Evening ;
The musical evening provided by the
pausio committee of the Woraaa's Club
wHch was held at Academy Hall on
Monday evening last proved to be one of
great enjoyment. The meetiDg being
open to the public a largo number of out
siders were present in spite of the in
clement weather.
The committee was fortunate in secur
ing as speakers former Principal It. 6.
Reynolds, now of Montpelier, and Miss
E'tiraa Elliott of the Johnson Norn, a I
school. Rev. W. E. Baker was also, pres
ent and introduced the speakers In his
usual geulal way.
, Mr. Reynold' subject was "Music in
the- Public Schools" and the manner in
which ho haudled It showed his complete
Ai.iliritji with .hi .subject.. Mr,JleVr,
nolds put forth some strong arguments
why musio rbould be taught in the pub
lic dcbools as was stenography, auric u1
ture, etc., and stated that he hoped Mor
risville would soon get into line and be
in a position to take advantage of the op
portunities that the State Hoard of Edu
cation hoped soon to be able to offer.
' If there was any doubt in the minds of
those present as to what musio can do
for our children, It was most certainly
dispelled by the song, "Little J.ick
Frost", which was so delightfully sung
and acted by four little tots Cornelia
Mould, Catharine Gates and Elizabeth
and Marshall Howe. To the insistent
applause they sang "Four Little Chicka
dtW, Mis. Grace Staffoid accompany
ing them od the piano.
Mr. Baker then introduced Miss Elliott,
who made a pleating impression from
her first word to her last. Miss Elliott is
an an enthusiast in her chosen work and
she spoke of the kinds of musio that a
child should be taught; how it should be
taught and emphasized the fact that
even if a child were not possessed of suf
ficient musical talent as to make a singer,
yet be could be taught to listen so that
he would derive almost as much benefit
as well as pleasure from the musical in
truction.
So well did Miss Elliot plead her cause
for a supervisor of musio In all the pub
lio schools in our state that at the con
clusion other remarks, Mr. Baker iu ex
tending the thanks of the Woman's Club
said that he felt it would not be fitting
to bring the meeting to a close without
some tangible proof being sent from the
Woman's Club to the school board ai to
their besrty endorsement of the move
ment to promote musio being taught in
the schools, and upon vote of the Presi
dent, Mrs. Ide, seconded by Mrs. Helen
K binon the following vote watf passed
unanimously: That the Woman's Club
of Morrisville, Vermont, put Itself on
record as favoring the teaching of musio
in the publio schools and to urge upon
the proper authorities the advisibility of
taking the proper steps to secure sam
THE EARLE STORE
ANNUA! OPENING
. OF HOLIDAY GOODS -
OUR ANNUAL OPEMxG OF HOLIDAY GOODS occurs on
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8. The public is cordially invited to at
tend, as we have mfide special effort in preparation for this
event. Although there is a scarcity of some foreign made
goods, we have more than made up for it in the lines that are
obtainable. . ,
We have Christmas Tors for girls and boys. No matter how
old or how young the girls and bovsmay be, wecan supply the
gifts that will make them glad on Christmas. We specialize on
" Holiday Goods suitable for everybody under 100 years old. We
'have Playthings. We have Fancy Goods. We have Practical Gifts.
" No matter what may be our ideajf an appropriate gift, yhu can
find it here. No matter ho w hard you may be wondering what on
earth to by v, you can find an answer to your question here. It
will be a pleasure for us to show you these goods, and it will he a
pleasure to you, too.
We urge your early buying-, for the assortment is now complete,
and none of the goods on hand can be duplicated. Ttachers who
make Christmas presents to thtir pupils will find thebest assort
ment right now. But come and bring your friends:
GEORGE F. EARLE
Morrisville,
Vermont
As usual the A. L. Cheney store is
ready for the holidays and the clerks,
while never waiting, are always at your
service. The stock is too big to enumer
ate, but shoppers will surely investigate
for themselves.
Have yoa seen the window display at
the Waterman store? And have yon
taken a look inside at one of the most
complete lines of gift goods for men and
boys ever shown in town? A helpful list
is given in tbeir advertisement this week,
bnt it is necessarily limited.
The Luce store it respleodeat inJCbrist
mas decorations ana tneir line ot gilt
goods for men and boys is one of the
most complete ever shown in town.
A WORrii-WHILE PRESENT
Every musical long
ing is easily satisfied
when there is a Vic
trbla in your home.
SIS lo $200
Why not get one of these Hand
some Victrolas for Christmas ?
Watches For Gifts
are always good. We have, the
Elgin, Waltham and Illinois.
Rogers Bros ' Silver Plated Ware. New line of Wa-
terman's and Moore's Fountain Pen's, New line of
Clock at all prices. .Y ;
STERLING SILYER NOVELTIES
1 What better Present than a subscription to
. -wapy. Magazine, ..o.rta.Ct.?..ps.earli Lf:..
H. J EDMUNDS
New Location Brown Block, Portland St.
Morrisville, : : Vermont.
Send for the New Price List
J. MURPHY & SON
SEE HERE
Big demand for Old Iron and All Kinds
of Jnnk. Bring it to Depot and get the
Highest Cash Price.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Jnnk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
HYDE PARK
E. L. Noyes is acting as clerk at the
Inn during the court rush.
Marshall Shattuck has gone to North
Wolcott, where he has employment.
Miss Lida F. Collins of Burlington is
at "Breezy Hill" for a few weeks' visit.
Willard Jewett and wife of Bristol, Ct.,
have been spending a few days in town,
Miss Louise Newcomb of Albany, N.Y.,
is visiting her friend, Mrs. Delia Shattuck.
Frank Keeler is critically ill. His phy
sicians give no encouragement as to his
recovery.
Harold Burnham is attending to jani
tor duties at the L. C. A. while' Mr. Noble
is attending court.
lohn Herrick and wile attended the
funeral of their cousin, Mrs. Cobb, at
Hardwick Monday.
The Home Culture Club had a very in
teresting social event with Mrs. Stella
Goddard Tuesday evenieg. There was a
good attendance of handsome "girls"
and attractive "boys."
IVe have lived high the past few days
something unusual in editorial life. One
day recently Neighbor Stevens sent in to
us a fine piece of venison steak and yes
terday Floyd Potter, who spent a few
days at his home in Belvidere and while
there shot a deer that dressed 247 lbs.,
brought into our humble abode a very
nice roast. We are very thadkful tor
these remembrances, which helped out
the "editorial" larder wonderfully to
say nothing of soothing the sorrows
brought on by the recent Democratic
victory.
To-morrow night, attbe Cong'l church,
beginning at 6 o'clock and continuing
until all are served, the annual supper
by the men folks will be given. The piece
de resistance will be oyster stews and
clam chowder, to which will be added all
the other things that go to make up a
first-class feast. Walter Jackson, an ex
pert ehef, will be in charge of the bivalve
department and will serve the sea food
in a manner gratifying to the most fas
tidious epicurean. Cold meats will also
be served. Then, besides this feasting,
there will be a social hour with literary
and musical features. It will only cost
25 cts. to enjoy the full and complete
event ; children in grades, or youn ger, loc.
I IP
11! II
CONTEST IS ON
To the person who trades out tht grnatest
number of our credit cards between tui
day, Dec. 9. and Feb. 6, 1917, we will tle 50
lbs. of fine Granulated Sugar. No mitter
how high Sugar is, the person who wins will
get 50 pounds. Customers will gei tneir
regular discounts as usual. Tb'.s pr ra is
for U.e person who trades out the most
cards. All filled cards held previous to Dec.
9 will not count in the'enntes'. PnrtW fil:el
cards will be stamped Dee. 9, and all new
cards will be stamped with the dae on
which they are begun. Begin early and get
the tight an. It may be t ie person who buys the most groceries, or wearing ap
parel, or X nas good that will win. Our materials foe spring will be in this month
ready for he spring sewing, giving you munv advantages to win in the totites.
Great care lias Iwen taken in selecting our Xmas goods and we have good line,
consisting of articles priced from five cents to $15.00 each. Watch foronr " m"
text week. It will help you. Grape Fruit, Honey, Malaga Grapes, Nuts, Figs,
Dates, Oys'ers In bulk and Sealsbipt for Saturday.
Bargain Day Specials, Saturday, December 9, Only
Cora 9c a can; 1 lb. can Cff f . best 35o quality, 29c; Ark Soap, 9 cakes for 25c;
Men's woolen Stock ingr 19c a pair.
iV. J. CIvARK, ... Hyde rtirl.
"X
(V) iVj
( i.
.
