*.., ..,, ..' . .,'-n -*
~~em*~~~ t.Y ~M e~~.
k. e- w .AevTm- CL. W HNt DD4d.
NO. 3722. VAI-M1COL. WASH INGTON4. D. C,. MUNSAY. DBMM 82L 191& ONIE CN
WSN DEMANDS
NEW WEAPON TO
PREVENT STRIKE
NIinms Newands Sped Ac
bon Is Imperative on
Rway Isue.
LABOR WJL HGHT MOVE
Pm-ast Imorus Workers in Efort
to Block Walk-out of Four
- Broditrioo&s
PresMdnt M en yesterday Ianmed
that Cengrisa faIon Ad planes i his I
bads a weapen to combat the thred
tis-up of the o-.erce of the egtry
thrOegh a deneral railroad strike.
The Preldskt personally visited the
p CapiteI and notifed Senator NewJands
that he must have speedy action in Con
gress cn his railroad program, including
the proposed measure for the "compulsory
investgation of Interstate stikes.'
This measure would enable the Preal
deat to halt at once any general .llroad
Strike. and to keep It suspended until a
complete investigation -3f the questions
at issue could be made. It would ef
fectually block any sudden crippling of
r the transportation facilities of the
country.
Newlands Pvrmiajes Speed.
Senator Newlands promised the great
eat possible speed in handling the Prest
dent's railroad legislation. He made theI
significant statement that:
"In my judgment, action of Congress
will he very decisive. insofar as any at
tempt to tie up commerce is concerned."
With Congress and the courts at work
,pon a solution of the railroad problem.
Senator Newlands said. he did not be
lieve that there was any immediate dan
ger of a strike. He expressed the op'nion
that the pressure for a strike came not
from the rank and fle of railroad men
but from "ambitious rivals" of the broth
erhood leaders.
The President motored to the Capitol
in a hurry and conferred for half an hour
with Senator Newlands, whose committee
will begin hearings on the railroad legis
lation Tuesday.
Demands immediate Action.
Immediate action by the committee,
the l'res'dent told Senator Newlands. was
imperative. Unless the railroad measures I
are laid before the Senate at once, the
President believes. there is grave danger
that they will be delayed by a fill
buster. Senator Newlands said he be
'i-ved the program could be enacted into
w before March 4.
Ol.position to the President's program
centers about his strike prevention pro
poa i'nlon leaders have' dubbed the
measure the "compulsory arbitration''
till arid hav, announced their determi
hation to fight it to the last ditch. The
tItive draft, to he taken up by the
Interstte Commerce Committee Tues
.;iy. would mk.e strikes or lockouts un
liawful for a period of four months after
a strire call or lockout announcement.
* during which time irveaslgation would be
nade by a Presidential commission.
Inores Labor's Stand.
Although the American Federation of
Eabor has adopted a resolution condemn
ing the strike prevention proposal. the
President made it plain this afternocn
he has not changed his mind since ne
reom.tirded the measure to '.ongress
in his annual message.
Opposition to the railroad program will
be ledI by Senator Cummings. of Iowa.
member of the Interstate Commerce Com
nittee. and one of the leading railroad
authories in Congress. Ile will have
the arive sipport of the entire Progres
sive-i pJlican clique in the Senate. It
is repert-d If they conduct a filibuster
annist the measure, a blockade of the
* whole 'ricsative program of the session
will develope.
SWITCHIMEN MAY STRIKE
IN BIG WESTERN CITIES
New York. Dec. 30 -Sporadic strikes
among railroad workers, which are ex
peried to come during the first week
of the new year. will be inaugurated
by the switchmen in the big cities of
the Middle West. it was said here to-'
day by railroad managers.
The cities where watkouts of the
switchmen are anticipated are Chicago.
Cleveland. St. Louis. Kansas City. De
troit. Toledo and Buffalo. It is not
believed that the yards of New York
and New England cities will be af
feeted, because most of the switchmen,
there are affiliated with the Switch
men's Union of North America. which
a week ago won a fight for twelve and
one-half per cent increase in wages be-,
fore the Federal board of arbitration.
Failure of the hrotherhood chiefs to
get the railroads t make the Adamson
eight-hour law effective the first of the
year Is said to have caused dissatis
faction among the thousands of switch
men who did not get increases under.
the Federal board's ruling.
Weuld Free Wooden Legs
Of Biutw Disease Pest
Respomnn to a British appeal, the
convention of the American Forestry As
seatln. to he held here next month.
h will conider ways and means for con
serving the visible supply of willow for
the manufacture of wooden legs.
The purpose of the organisation Is to
check the spread of the blister disease
hih threatens the destruction of white
and sugar pine in the United States
* valued at nearly $S0.00.SS.
WILSON AT 3. 1. EITE'S.
The European war, peace proepectsf
and other momnentous problems were
e tmiincs of miles away for all the audi
cmos and the President were aware of
last night. when the Chief Ex.
eative walked Into B. F. Keith's Theater
with his party closely followed by Secret
mevioe men, policemen and theater at
tendants. As the President entered the
erehestra stree up the ''Star Spangled
Me' and a wave of applause swept
the a n the Prsident's party
WeeM.and Mrs. Rlolfe Blnlag and the
President's grand ntese. Miss cthran.
usstServes to aimes==
U ~ry our oa the Hour. Rltimore i
SdOe.*.75 ron rip. Saturdaysj
New Year Creethg
Frm Capitars most
S Pro" Resient.
With the ending of the old year and
the begining of the new, the time
has arrived to wipe the state clean
and start afresh-with good reso
lutions for 1317. In every walrof life.
from men prominent in Ws Liton's
civic affairs to the day laborer, there
is desire to "swear of' and begin the
new year with determination for good.
New Year's remilutens of; those
prominent here range from desire for
early pese in Europe to ho for in
cressed pay for government e ployes;
from a remove to snake Pres nt Wit
son's inauguration the grea est ever
witnemed here to the expression
that Washington should be made the
moot beautiful Capital In the world.
The good resolutions made by some
of Washington's prominent residents
follow:
GeL Robert N. Harper, chairmen in
msgural eemm attee,
My one and only New Tear resolution
will be a repetition of'te one that'1 4
made when I was notified of my appoint
ment as chairman of the Inaugural Com
mittee. I resolved to give to the people
of Washington and the United States the
best inauguration celebration they have
ever had. I will try to fulfill that one
resolution by bending every effort toward
the success of March 4. After that day
has passed I will lend a willing help to
make the Confedbate Reunion a success.
P. T. Meram, presmeat ef the Wash
ingteu Chamber of Comanevees
My New Year resolution is to strive I
with all the strength and force that is
within me to have the residents of the
District given the privilege of the ballot.
Our commercial bodies, our civic organi
sations. our churches, and our citisenship
generally should unite in one central plea
to Congress for a voice In the govern
ment of this great country. Disenfman
chimed we have accomplished much. With
the power of the ballot we can all work
more effectively and enthusiastically for
a better and a busier Washington.
Maj. Charles W. Kots, Fagiteer Cm
missieoer of the Distriets
I hope that Congress will increa1 the
pay of the District employes durinj the
year 1917.
Commisseoer Oliver U, Newmans
I don't believe in New Year resolo
tions. One should do one's best at all
times, whether or not it happens to be
the first of January. One should strive
to do his duty more completely and more
efficienly each day.
Cemmsleor Louis Brewnlews
T hope that the year 1M7 will be the
greatest year In the history of the DIs
trict of Columbia, and that greater pro
gress will be made In that year than
has been made in any past year.
Come H. Rudolph. president teeOmd
Natienal Banks
On New Year Day I resolve to con- -
tinue my efforts toward the upbuilding
of Washington's financial and commercial
interests and to aid In every possible way
toward beautifying tie Capital City of
the United States.
A. P. Andrews, presideut of the Re
tail Merehants' Associations
My first resolution is to support by
word and deed, the efforts of our PresI
dent to make a world at peace. I be
liere we should always rely upon the
bridge that has carried us safely across.
In President Wilson's efforts for peace
I have abiding confidence, and my aim,
shall be to sustain him and to encourage
others to do so. --
Rev. James L. Gordee, poster Of First
Cogregatomal Church&
May Washington lead the capitals of
the earth In securing world reace for the
coming year. I also hope that each cit
izen will do his best to make Washing
ton a better city.
Chearle S. Shreve. president of the
Federation of Citisems' Asseelatieus,
I hope to see the year 1917 accomplish
greater things for the District of Colum
bia, including better pay for District em
ployes.
Joh Jey Edn. preeideut Washing
ten Lean & Trest CempaUTy
New Year's resolutions? Yes. I be
leve in them. There are always those
who will make them and will be bene
'ted. It seems to mre that most people
who make resolutions make them In sin
erity and universally those who make v
hem stick to them. - New Year Is a
beginning of new things. As a whole.
leople believe it is a beginning for them.
rhey lay aside the old or determine to
build on the old a plan bigger and bet-,
ter and so accom'lish more than during
the yeaf- before. Old fashioned? Yes,
but a good thing.
George W. White. president Natienal
Metrepelitan Banks
Resolutions should not be. reserved for
ew Year They should he made and
,arried out at the moment of the ocea
sion for making them. Never before have
we had such a New Year. either
Inancially or sentimentally. With peace
n Europe hanging In the balance, no man
,an say precisely just what condit'ons
peace will create, but I expect that it t
will be thrust in our faces suddenly, and 1
he sooner it c es the quicker American
inance will geT back to a normal foot
ng. I expect that within a few years
ifter the close of the war that America
will enjoy a prosperity, the like of which I
was never known before, the money that I
ias been made in the last two years will t
nake itself felt in all sections of the V
!ountry. When money conditions again d
:ghten up to normal, the capitalist willit
ican more closely his investments and the 1A
2orrower trll look more to his expend,. r
tures.
Repr'euentative Jehe L. Kelae. et Cal
My one resolution is to work even
barder than I have to hring a little of the
sappiness and general prosperity thatI
he country is enjoying into the homes
f the government employee who get less I
han 38 a day.r
If I feel that the men and women In
he lowest paid branches of the Federal I'
service need some assistance, it Is he
'ause' I ~persdnally have seen how they
uffer and I have read hundreds of let
era and documents that tell the same
tory. Could I wish or resolve for my
oficaguss in Congress, it would be that
hey read the hearings on the Nolan bill
mad act eordingly.
Repmesenttive Jasmes A. Gallivan, of
My main resolution for 1317 Is tojt
ring about a fair and honest immi
fration bill. I want this country to
nat lato law-If It must amend the s
mmigratlon law-comething that is d
ot founded upon race prejudce and e
bigotry. The New Year's resolution for f
syself Is Ilever again to feel that I am ,
meemuma n ma .., 11.
WILL GREET NEW
YEAR AT ALTARS
Watch Night ServicesMill Be
Hel in Churche- yety
Tomorrow Night.
1917 will come in at midnight.
Not with any noisy acclaim on the
-treets or revelry in ,the hotel., but
with solemn watch services in the
:hurches and silent prayers in thou-!
,ands of homes that the new year may
)ring a greater proportion of peace
Lnd happiness than 1916.
Coming in on Sunday night, the ad
rent of a new link in the cycle of time
will offer every opportunity for mak
ng the appropriate resolutions that go.
with every January 1.
The departing year, with its last
lay on Sunday, gives the churches an
ippropriate theme for Sabbath ser
nons. In practically all of the Pro
estant churches of the District the
iassing of 1916 and the approach ofi
other year will be the dom'natin
hought of the sermons. In thi Cath
ic chureles the main announcement
will be that January 1 is thi, I'east of
he Circumcision and a holiday of obli
ration.
The high cost of living has been a
rery acute problem and one that has.
net wide discussion in the departing
rear. The number of men who annex
ieats on the ipythical water wagon
hat is headed toward temperance and
rohibition is always largest on Jan
iary 1.
In- spite of these things, the number
of reservations that have been booked
>y the local hotels for the celebration
omorrow night is larger than at any:
ime in the history of the city.
Among those who have arranged for
ervice are Cabinet officers. Senators
ongressmen, judges and nearly every
me registered in the social blue book.
Hotel keepers agreed two months ago
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
POLIalEN THANKED
BY BURGLAR IN NOTE
iaid He Was "Guarding" Store He'd
Entered.
iosuial to The Waakinston ernl.
New York. Dec. 30.-PoUce Lieutenants
'losterman and O'Connor walked pon
ierously down the streets of Jersey City.
[t was midnight.
Abreast of Frank Nasin'. saloon, they
aw a shabby figure behind the plate
rlass window.
"Who are ye?" bellowed Lieutenant
YConnor.
"The man'in chare." yelled .te otier
womptly. "Mr. Nasin lets me sleep here
o' nights to keep away burglars."
Patrolman Donoghue strolled afar.:
'hey called him. Was the shabby man's
tatement correct? they asked. He didn't
Lnow. They ordered Patrolman Don
oghue to go to Nazin'o house, a half
nile distant, and ask him.
'Oi! yoi! yoi yol!" cried Prank Nazin.
lespairfully, a short time later when
3onoghue routed him from bed. Then.]
ie led Donoghue in a wild race back to
he saloon. Nasin's 00 and some odd
hange were gone. So was the shabby
tranger. Only a note stayed behind.
"Dear police lieutenants." it read.
Thanks."
IU06E ASKS INQUIRY"I
If PROSECUTOR'S WORK
'ov. Whitman Told Probe of Swann's
Office Is Needed.
By the I ternatonsl News Service.) f
New York. Dec. 30.-Judge James A.:
)elehanty. of the Court of General 1
-sslons here. filed charges today with
lovernor Whitman. asserting that Ed
rard Swann. District Attorney of New.e
'nrk City, had been delinquent in r
rosecuting several persons charged'I
1ith using violence in the clothing!
t-i 'ke in 1914.
This was Judge Delehanty's last I
ficial act before retiring from the
ench. He mailed the Governor a long
Iemorandum of the case, making only
he recommendation that the State in-,
tigate an inquiry.
The judge revfewed a situation
rhich he said had been disclosed by
nveOStigation of a motion to dismiss
,even indictments against twenty
even men, who were either labor un
in members or associated with lead-;
rs of the big strike three years ago.
re asserted that the inquiry indicatedl
hat fraud had been used to impose.
pon the Court of General Sessionsj
,hen ball was discharged in the cases
1 June, 1916.
The defendants were charged with as- r
iilt on workmen after the matter had t
een brought before the grand jury by
. F. Ereckenridge, then assistant dis
-let attorney. Delay in prosecution of
ie cases led Mr. Breckenridge to ad
ress a protest to Mr. Swann. in which
Is assistant district attorney resigned.
copy of this communication was m
luded in Judge Delehanty's memoran
um to Governor Whitman.
SHOOT MAN; STEAL $20,000,
Los Angeles. Cal., Dec. 30.-E!ntering threa
Iroadway office of the Square Deal Loan
acociation shortly after Al Joseph. 4..
ad opened its doors today, two armedp
men shot Joseph through the mouth, prob
bly fatally wounded him and escaped,,
rith jewelry and cash tetaling I51,00.
The robbery was not discovered until a
ustomer entered thle store and found
oseph lying in a pool of blood in front
fthe safe, which he had opened as the
wro en entered. His akull was frac
ared by a blow on the head.
TO HONOR mt8. 30IUERIN.
New York. Dec. 30.-New Year Day will
itness the paying here cf a final tributep
m Ines Milholland Boissevain
This honor will be at a beeutiful me- t
orial service to be held Monday after- c
So.1 in the Church of the Asenetn- i
ir the auspicees of the New York City
stamittee of the Congressional Union f
ivWmnufs is ney. Burns.
ice chairmns of the CgrM~ al f
'ma.n -m ..... a. - a.. n
Wit.. Wromw"Ls
Sif Gam T h
Pesident Wis aked 6
deded amp yesteitsy. It ,w
learNed that be lest hl ?edog
tumbled down an emhaakmmage
terday morning while plaig jpf,
with the result that il left leg
was wrenched.
At first the President felt no
bad effects from the fail,\bUt later
yesterday his leg stiffened and
me It painful f., him to walk em.
2,060 CARRANZA
TROOPS TRAPPEO
First Chiefs Men Badly De
feated by ViUa.
(My the Internaiai Newe UervIa.)'
ED Paso. Tex., Dec. 0.--Vilistas laid
a trap today at Jimine, - into which
1,000 unsuspecting Carransa troops
wdiked and weg badly defeated.
The column of Murguia troops be
lioved Villa had ab.ndoned Jimines and
boldly marched into it. intending to
reoccupy the town. VilIks troops were
waiting outside the town, and when
they had the Carransistas safely bot
Lled up. they attacked like a whihlwind
end a sanguinary battle resulted.
The surprised Murguia troops, who
thought Villa was en route to Mon
terey. put up a stubborn resistance for
a short while and then fled, leaving
nany dead behind them. Many were:
wounded on both sides and refugees'
7eport that the railway station at Jim
nes is filled with Villa's wounded.
A motorcycle machine-gun company
)f United States soldiers was rushed
o Laguna ranch, twenty miles down
he Rio Grande, tonight. The squad
!arried six mounted machine-guns.
Although military officials declined to
reveal the reason for the hurried de-.
parture of the squad. it is believed here
that the action was taken on receipt of
L telegraphic communiestion that another
large party of filibusters wag planning
Lo cross the Rio Grande into Mexico,
tonight.
Monterey. principal city of northern
Mexico, has been evacuated by prac
Itally the entire Carransa garrison be
rore Villa's advance.
One thousand Carranzistas Red from the
'ity and are making their way to Ojinags.
)pposite the Texas border town of
Laredo. Only 300 Carranza soldiers and
two generals remained behind and they
eclared their intention of joining the
6illistasg.
The capture of Saltillo by .Villa was
)ffcially confirmed today. Repo that
3hmnm troops have'ledecuped Torres,
were found to be untrue.
KOODIAITED SCALP
PRODUCED DY LAWYER
)oston Broker. Murder Suspect. Weeps
at Sight.
by the International fews serviee.)
Ossippee, N. H.. Dec. 30.-Frederick
aSmall. Boston broker. charged with i
he murder of his wife, wept as he
-rouched In his chair this afternoon
Lnd saw Mrs. Small's blood-matted
calp fitted over the woman's bullet
rilled skull.
Dr. Howard M. Kingsford, medical
lirector of Dartmouth College, intro
luced the gruesome exhibit for tne,
;tate, and explained the processes by
vhich the woman met her death.
rouching in his chair. Small covered
is eyes with his hands.
Dr. Kingsford testified that the food.
ound in Mrs. Small's stomach uisclos
(d that death followed less than ,.n
iour after she had eaten. The stomach
ontents,. he said. were undigested.
A mask-like charred cast, shaped t'o
human face, and which had been in-.4
inerated. showed resin which had been
artly burned.
Mrs. Elizabeth Curry. mother of the
nurdered victim, fainted when she saw
er daughter's skull produced in evi-'
ence. She is in charge of a physician.
Telegraph Tips '
Chicago, Dec. 3.-Caught in the act of
obbirg a safe in the offices of Bishop,
Hamlin, coal operators, safe-blowers
arly today shot and killed "Dad" Folger,
he night watchman, and made their es
ape.
'Cnglewood, N. J., Dec. 30.-Thomas W.
aLmont, one of J. P. Morgan's partners
gures today that it cost him just 32.50j
0 take a bath last night. While the
rancier was locked in the bathroom
hieves slipped in the front door and
valked off with $2.500.
Tokyo. Dec. 30.-Offieial degial has been
-sted here of reports current in Wash
rigton that England. after the war. will
runsfer six first Itne warships to Japan.
London, Dec. 30.--The Lloyd George gov
rnment has decided to create an air min
stry to take the place of the air board.
ccording to the Daily Telegraph today.
'he ohject is to carry on a\Jaore vigorous*
ir offensive.
London, Dec. B0-An Amsterdam dis
atch today said Kaiser Wilhelm hias
ant a complimentary message to Glen.
on Blssing, the German governor of
liegium. who is dangerously ill of pneu
ionia.
Camden, N. J., Dec. 30.-Edna Seaman.
1 years old, daughter of Charles Bea
ian, wealthy farmer, of GJreenlock, was~
hot and killed early today in her bed-,
tiom by Thomas Coafway, 30, farmhand.
onway then shot himself.
New York. Dec. 3k.-F. W. Whitridge.
resident of the Third Avenue Railway,t
led in New York Hospital today1from
me effects of an operation for appendi
New Bitain, Conn., Dec. 30.-Removed 1
rorntp cptainacy of Companiy I, First'
teimeht, Connecticut National Guard,
ar alleged shortage in hie accounts, Cap
skin Henry Ladbury ahot and killed hinm
Ur able a~taernoo at the lstt armar.
SERETH AuTTE
REACHES -C8
Teutons Smashing Ahead 0
Front 120 Miles Long.
(1 te Emissadsima Netie Usyse.1
Berlin (vta Nayvile). Dea. se-Tbe sm
prem.e teat betweem Testns and sRs
Sans in the great struggle for the OSt
line Is at hand.
In the last thirty-is hours. the- Teu
tons have meahed absed on the whole
13-mIle front, from the Otuis river down
to the Danube. As a result. their center
stands at Sloboala. only ix and a half
miles from the Sereth river.
General von Gerok. who started the
great steam roller oa its way by his
sudden eastward thrust from the meen
tains around Sonee, I twenty miles
from the middle sereth.
The Teuton line now resembles a hge
gelf stick, the bead fronting' the power
fully fortifled line at Poes.ami Galati, At
1obosa, the center he driven a anlght
wedge into the Ruaan line. To it. left.
only 177 miles away lies the great pivot
point. Poenami, also threatened by Ge
rok's forces and the troopIe of Kraft von
Delmensingen, while to the right. Mac
keneen's army ia sweeping northward
against Bratla and Galati.
A series of grave admisslons came from
Petrograd yesterday. The war ofioe
statement conceded that Gerok's forces
In "perelatent attacke" pressed back the
Russians slightly to the east,'' and that
the invaders forced back the Muscovites
northeast of Rlmnicu Barat.
Indirectly, it admitted that only twen
ty miles separate the Teuton left from
the middle sereth. in the Dobrudja alone
were the Russians able to repulse the
Teuton attacks. They Infcteid heavy
losses on the Invaders there, Petrograd
ame rts.
Berlin speaks of "strong counter at
tacks" against Gerok's arm, which
shows'that the defenders have recovered
from the surprise blows In that area and
are now trying desperately to throw the
Teutons back Into the mountains.
SAW SHIP BLOWN OP
AND SINK IN STORM
oastwise Vessel Was Too Far Off
to Go to Her Aid.
By the Interntletil isewe Service.)
New York. Dec. 30.-A large vessel,
-hlch he believes might have been a
warship, was blown up off the American
-ast during the height of the storm ]rat
Monday night, according to Captain
Louis- I.. Congdon. of the coastwie
teamer Nuecee.
"it was bitter cold and thore was a
tale blowing inshore."'said Capt Cong
don here today "Seas were running
high. wbich accounts for the fact that
no explosion was heard on shore.
"We were about forty-five miles from
Cape Henlopen, and the burning vessel
was between us and the cape. The mate
iwoke me, and by the time I reached
deck. the flame was covering thirty de
greee of the weetern horizon. The whole
thing lasted only seven minutes after I
ighted her.
"It would have taken us an hour and
i half to have reached the vessel, and
then we could have done no good. No
human being could survive an hour in
Lhe water that night."
FRIES TO SEVER OIRL'S
HAIR IN SUBWAY TRAIN
"assengers Grab Assailant-Cop Pro.
tects Him with Gun.
Ipei to The wahisto Hresrld.
New York. Dec. 30.-When her next seat
ielghbor in a north-bound subway tram
Lttempted to cut her long black tresses
with a pair of scissors early last night,
dias Fanny Redlar, 15 years oli. scream
4, She pointed at Theodore Wilhelm. 29.
k salesman. of 979 Aldus avenue. the
tronx, and men passengers seized him
tnd a lively tussle ensued.
Screams of women caused many pas
ienzers to rush for the doors as the train
ieared the llth street station. With the
topping of the train. Wilhelm was taken
f. while many men passengers, hearing
he girl's story, corroborated by Harold
4ewett. of West Cheater. attempted to
>unch the scisor. wielder. Policeman
3reury was forced t- draw his revolve,
o save Wilhelm from the threatening
,rowd.
In the Men's Night Court Wilhelm
leaded guilty to the girl's charge. He
ould not explain his action, he said.
dagistrate Simms held him without ball
or sentence.
cURCH HOSr L FEUD.
Chicago, Dec. 0.-Grace Church and
it. Luke's Hospital are locked in oral
-omhnt over the chimes of the former.
Physicians at the hospital declaro pa
lents are annoyed almost beyond endur
ncV by the church chimes. Church hos
,Itals are offering the testimony of other
1hysicians th-it the chimes have a sooth
ng effect on the Ill
BREWERS' CASES P0STPONED.
Pittsburgh, Pa. Dec. 3.-Federal
u're Orr and Thomson today granted
ntinuances untIl the May term of court
f the cases of seventy-two brewIng cor
orations of Pennsylvania and the UnIted
tates Br'ewers' Assoclation under 101 in
Ilctments for alleged illegal contribution.
f money In the 104 electiona.
ASTIUM FOR GAETZ.
Baltimore. Dec. 30.--Following an exam
nation. made by Dr. Arthur P. Herring,
lecretary of the State lunacy commisson,
rrangemnents were made to receive
leorge C. Gants, of Govana, who shot
)r. George H. Hocking and held the Hal
imor-e County police at bay for nine
tour. yeesrday, at Spring Grove Sana
orium late today. -
gleepiug OCe' toeFairemeet,
Daltimsere and SObe Redtread.
For the accommodation of patron. to
"airmont and Morgazatown, a sixteen
ection Pullman sleeping car leaves
Washington at 9:05 p. mn., arriving
ratrmont 1:15a. m. Paseengera may
-emain in sleeper at Patrmont until
'41 a, in,; airive Mesntowa T:5S
me-Aaw-.
GERMAN PEA
SCORNED B
AS "EMPT
Teutons Bitterly Flay<
Which Is Sent Forw
ican Ambasse
FUTURE OUTLO
Kaiser's Claim to Victor,
"Renders Sterile"
Says
(y the I....ns
Paris. Dec. .-Te entente ve
Ambassador to t for transmissin
to Germany's for apeace
follows:
"he a1lie4 governments of Be
Japan, Montene*. Portugal. Rumai
defense of the lierty of their people
not to lay down their arms separatel
Ito the pretended proposions of peac
behalf of the enemy governments thu
States. Spain. Switzerland and Hollan
PROTEST GEE
"Before making any reply, the all
test against the two essential assertiot
that pretend to throw upon the allies
claim the victory of the centrai powers
The allied governments cannot
and which suffices to render sterie all
TALK ON TROOPS
Carranza's Agent Urges With
drawal of Pershing's Men.
Withdrawal of the Pershing punitivel
expedition from Mexican soil again last I
night became the center of the tangled
Mexican situation in Washington.. I
As in all recent Mexican "crises. th10
Pershing force was put forward by tie"
Carranza representatives here at the
central difficulty to tween the two
countries. The American section of the
Mexican commission and other admin
istration officials received the sugges
lion that all troubles be ended by with
drawing Pershing, with little favor. It
was made clear that before any move
in this direction is taken, President
Wilson will be called upon to consider
the entire situation.
The State De partment was visited by
Charles A. Douglas. Carranta's Ameri
can legal adviser. who went there in'
his official capacity for the first time
in many months. Judge IDouglas spent
some time with Counselor Polk and
urged the withdrawal of the troops on
the basis of helping Carianza with his
problem of rehabilitating the republic.
Up to Joett (. missen.
It was held by Mr. Polk that the
question of the continued presence of
'the American military force on Mexi
can territory was no l.nger a question
for the State Depirtment. It was the
'province of the joint international com
missiot to define the duration of Gjen.
Pershing's stay.
Subsequently. there was a conference'
between Secretary of th.. Interior Lanei
and Secretary of War Baker, which
was presumed to he on the same sub
ject. Secret iry Lane refused to fore
cast the action of the American section
of the joint commission. before the
Carranza objec tion- to signing the
protocol ate laid befire him.
The Carranza objections are set forth
in conciliatory language and this fact
leaves some hope with the commis
sioners that the negotiations may bel
resumed with hope of early adjustment
in accordance with the American de
mands. hut this is only surmise.
SEVEN GiERMANS BRING
ENEMY SHIP TO PORT
Carried 7.000 Tons of Explosives
worth $5,000.000.
(By the Iatermatitoai News service.)
%.ilhelmshaven tvia Berlin and Say
ville). Dec. 30.-% story with a dramatic
thrill is that of the capture of the Rus
sian ammunition carrier Suchan by a
Get,.an t-boat.
The Suchan was ihted in a blinding
annesstorm. The U-boat commander, upon
diacavering that she carried a cargo of
7.0 tons of assorted explosives, con
clured it was better to bring her in and
not mend her to the bottom.
The captain was taken off and seven
men from the submarIne were put in'
commar.d of the vessel. It is here that
the pluck of German seamanship was put
to a nerve-wracking test, for the hurri
cane was insane and the boat was roll
ink heavily. She was not only repeatedly
taken out of her course, but the bunkers
held barely enough fuel to complete the
trip.
The boat commenced to ship water and
the Russian crew threatened mutiny.
When the Skagerak was reached, the
Suchan had twenty tons of coal left to
finish the voyage in rolling seas. That
was barely accomplished, for when tha
vessel was docked the butnkcrs showed
half a ton ,Jeft.
The vahfe of the carago is estimated al.
S,000,000, but the net loam to Rtusia is as
suredly higher than that, for it is as
serted that the amount of explosives car-l
ried by the Suchan equalled a week's out
put of a Rusian munitionts factory.
Auguetn, Chartenten. Beammerviste,
Seamanub ,eha Cub.
Atlantic Coast LUne. 146 N. Y. ave. aw.
CE OFFER
Y ENTENTE
(" PROPOSAL
x in Allied Answer,
,ard Through Amer
Ldor at Paris.
OK IS GLOOMY
r and Shifting of Blame
the Negotiations,
Note.
Ws N5wB .)
vernamemts handed to the Amissican
to the cmntral powrs their anwer
iference. 'e ful t of the amswer
sisan. Frante. Grat Britain. Italy.
I. Russia asi Serbia. un-d for the
6, and faithful to nmsemnts takem
r, have resolved to reply collectively
e which were addressed to thee on
ough the intermdiary of the Lited
Cd.
-A CLAIMS.
ied powers desire particularly to pro
is of the mote of the enemy powers
responsibility for the war and pro
admit an affirmation doubly inexact
tentative negotiations.
red Aved Steaigte.
"The alied nations have sustaired 'r
thirty rmonths a war they did everythtrg
tc avoid. They have shown by t. ir a ts
their attachment to peace. That attach
ment is as strong today as it %as in
.n4. But it is not upon the word of Ger
many, after the violation of its engage.
ments. that the peace brolen by her may
be based.
"A me-re suggestion, without a state
mey-t of tc-ns, that negotiations should
he opened. is not an off r of peace. The
putting foruard by the Imperial govern
ment of a sham propoasal iacking all sub
tanee and precision. would appear to be
less an offer of peace thart a war
ufaneuer. It Ia founded on ealculated
misinterpretation of the character nf the
struggle in the past, the present and the
ttre.
As for the past. the German note takes
,o acount of the facts, dates and flgurcs
ahich establisi that the aar %as desired.
provoked and declared by Germany and
Austria-Hungary
"At The Hague conference it was a
C rman delegate who refused atl pro
posals for isarmament in July. 1914. It
was Austria-Hungary, who after having
addressed to Serbia an unprecedented ulti
matum declared war upon her in spite of
the satisfaction which had at once been
accorded.
Rejected Eferts at Peace.
"The central empires then rejected all
attempts made by the entente to bring
about a pacific solution of a purelv local
conflict
"Great Britain suggested ' cotifereuce:
France proposed an international com
mission: the Emperor of RussiA asked
the German Emperor to go to arh trtaion.
and Russia and Austria hungary came
to an understanding on the ev- of ti'
-onfliet. But to all the, efforts. Ger
many gave neither ans-r nor effet
"Belgium was invaded by an empire
which had guaranteed her neutrality
and which had the assurance to I ro-laim
that treaties were 'scraps of piper. and
that nes s-ity knows no law
"At the present moment these sham
offers on the part of Germany rA -t
the war map of Europe aione. on h'
re'resents nothing more than a superri-1e1
and passing situation and not the real
strength of the belligerents.
.A peace concluded upon these terms
would be only to the advantag, of the
aggresors, who after Imagining that her
would reach their goal in two months.
discovered after two years that they
could never attain it.
Most Pish Germany.
As for the future the disasters caused
by the German declaration of war, and
the innumerable outrages committed by
Germany and her allies against hoth bel
ligerents and neutrals, demand penalties.
reparation and guarantees. Germany
avoids mention of any of these.
"In reality, these overtures made by
the central powers are nothing more than
a calculated attempt to influence the fu
ture course of war and to end it by Is
posing a German peace.
"The object of these overtures Is tO
crente dissension in public opinion to the
allied countries. But that public ophinM
has. In spite of all the sacriOlce endured
by the allies, already given its answer
with admirable firmness ad has de
nounced the empty pretense of the dec
laration of the enemy powers.
*The% have the further object of stif
ening puhjic opinion in neutral counties.
whose inhabitants have long singe smade
up their minds where the initial rwea
sibilities lie, and are far too eenghtemn
to favor the designs of Gen by
ahandoning the defense of heman Dee
dam.
"FInally. these overtures attempt to
justify in advance In the eyes et the
world a new, series of edsines-eubmarben
warfare. deportations. forced laber mnd
forced enlistment of the inha..namen
against their own countries and vista.
tions of neutrality.
Cemaldee' Propeemi "Emt."
''Fully conscious of the gravity ot thin
moment, but equally consetous of its se
quirements. the allied goverumemt, ;sIee.
ly united to one another and in pese.
sympathy with their peoples, teftem te~
-orider a proposal which Is ept and'
insincere.
Once again the alliew declare that a.e
peace Is possible, so long as they have
not secured reparatiob for violated
and liberties, the ("ecognition ot the peo
Pie of the nationalities and ot the DeS
existenee of small atatew; se teug as they
havy. not brought about a esm alm
cuiated to end once and for all. brs.
which have constituted a perpetual mum
coun esm - a,
