I Wonder What---?
The T-D Information Bureau
Has the Answer
fttdpnottd ?meS-iBispatdj
Society Doings
See Miss Witt's Newsy and . lc
curate Reports in The T.-l).
66th YEAR
VOLUMK ce
.> i ?aiit'.H :t?r.
RICHMOND, VA? SUNDAY, DECEMBER 31, 191(5. ? FORTY-TWO PAGES.
r?mV"" ?CLEAR
PRICE, FIVE CENTS 1
Charged in Papers Filed in
Chancery Court With Be
ing Absconding Debtor.
HAS NOT BEEN SEEN HERE
SINCE LAST THURSDAY
Nuckols Says He Was to Have
Settled for Trust Fund
on Friday.
HI III) I'AltK MOMK .\TT.\('IIi;i>
Police \rr .\skni to Look for \\>ll
Knowit Iteul li'Hlaile
Man.
Mtorncys represent ing William !?.
of Atlantic *'ity. X. J., for*
merly of Richmond, yesterday lilcd
claims it, t hr- Chancery Court for
*0upon I hr property of William
E. Pizzini, a well-known local real
folate 0|i<-ratui. Pizzini has not hr.-n
seen in Richmond sin . last Thurs
<lay.
1' was learned yesterdaj ihat Air.
Nuckols ?:ame to Richmond on Wednes
day to have a settlement ami business
conferenc* with Mr Pizzlni. Eor the
fast twelve vears ,l;ts bl;ftI| |Jol(
business with Mr. Pixzini, an<l tli?
fftl.r.OO i eprescnt s his .-ntire fortune.
He met .Mr. Plzziiil on Wcdm-.vjay
afternoon, and during the course Jf
? he conversation said that h* had con
templated changing the .-ntirr account
to Hie i i|i| Dominion Trim Company.
-Mr. Pl/.zinl uritcil him to reconsider
his Intention and agreed to meet him
the following day. Finally, howev-r
It was agree.I that ;,t :: o'clock on
I- r:dav afternoon .Mr. Pizzini wa? to
meet Mr. Nuckols ami turn over all
note, and papers to the Ohl Dominion
Trust Company Mr NuckoD was
present at th.? agreed time and place,
out he waited In vain for Mr Plzztnl.
IMII.lt i ; a III-; ASKKI) 'I II
I.OCATK Missive, m * \
It became known at th* Second Po
lite .Station on Friday that Mr. Pizzini
had not hcnn home. The otllcers were
asked to attempt to locate him If pos
sible. There was no official "lost"
notice made out, hut the officers ,,f
this precinct ha\o conducted a "null
hunt* for him since that time. He
has not been seen since.
So f.?r as is known, the lust seen of
Mr. Pizzlni was on Thursday, when lie
drew a Jar*-"' sum of money from a
local bank?all in J100 note.-, expense
money. Thursday night Mr-. Pizzlni
"laved at Stuart CIrck llo?pital with
"?* her chlldr. ii. who w as there
lor a minor operation.
William E. Word, secretary of the
William H. Pizzlni Real Estate i.'om
pany. when asked lust ni^ht a.- !?,. the
whereabouts of Mr. Pizzini. stated that
ho did not know. 11.? wa? anked if the
accounts had be?-n checked tip, and
said that the \ livid not been as Vet,
but .bat this ^ ork would dotie this
week. Until that tun<-, he said, iie did
not know if th" accounts were straight
? ?r not. He said he knew nothing, of
course, of th<- personal accounts of Mr.
I tzzini. lie was If hi* firm did
not handle Iarg< sums of tnonev for
other people, and h. declined t.. state,
saying that he would rather not
answer.
I'l/.y.iM m:pnitTi:i) to
HAVE I.KI'-l' Klill x k\\ \ o it IC
No one seems to know where Mr.
Pizzini has g>*>ne. It has been said
that he se<'ur>'d transportation to New
York on Thursday; but this cannot be
* erlti*d.
The plaintiff is represented by, J.amb
& I.ainb, and llrnley. Anderson ,4 llali.
Mr. Nuckols bus for the past twelve
years been handing his money to Mr.
Pizzini in sums of $|O.000. usually. It
was. supposed to be let out on mort
gages and other real estate securities.
Attorneys representing Mr. Nuckols
allege that the money was not let out
on real estate securities, and that the
notes, amounting to $94,500 in prop
erty, were not signed by individuals
known in Richmond, nnd that no se
curity for those notes has been found.
Mr. Nuckols, who is seventy-nine
years <>r age. is In Richmond. The
amount represents his savings of a
lifetime. When seen last night he ap
peared worried and downcast. He came
to Richmond on purpose to transfer his
property from nn individual to a trust
company, having been advised that
such was a proper course. He had been
receiving interest upon his investments
with regularity and did not doubt but
that everything was all right, except
that the advice given him had caused
him to prefer to trust his future living
into the keeping of a banking insti
tution. rather than allow an individual
to hs vp control of it.
A TT A r IIM K XT IS SIE 11
nv I HAXCEItV COURT
Late yesterday afternoon Mr. Nuckols
filed h petition in the Chancery Court
for tin attachment against all property
In the city owned by Pizzini. or in
which he was interested, charging that
Pizzlni was indebted to him in the sum
of $94,500.
The court granted the attachment,
and Sheriff ,T. Herbert Mercer and Dep
uty Sheriff ,1. I). Spencer attached the
handsome, home of Pizzini in William
Byrd Park as well as the household
property and automobile. Deputy
Slierlff Wood attached a parcel of real
estate on Q Street, Church 11 ill,* late
last night.
Nuckols. In his petition for an at
tachment. asserts that lie was a resi
dent of Richmond about fourteen years
ago. and at that time became ac
uuainted with Pizzini. who was con
ducting a rcnl estate business. He
placed every confidence in him. and
placed, at different times, various sums
with him for investment, some of his
own accord, and others at the request
(Continued on""Second Page!)
New Year's Greetings
From Men on Border
HltOWNMYIM.K. TUVA*. Decent.
her Before I lie luriceMt croml
e*er iiinemliled In the V. 31. I!, A.
building here, the Kerond Ylrgliiiu
IteKlment Io-iiIkIiI hnde fnre^vrll to
the Klrnl Itrnlinent nlilrh expect* to
entrain on Tuesday for home. Col
onel l.rrdy nnd t'npliilii Urnnl*. of
the Serond IteRlnient. imidr nhort
uititremiex, mid the renpnnne wan by
>lnJor >lnrtln. The .Second Iteglntrnt
timid rendered a pronritm of iitunli*.
concluding ?lth "tiod lie With You"
thromi on the acrern nnd nung In
the dnrk.
The \ IrKlnln troop* nnd thou*'
nnd* of their Brown* vllle friend*
? end ,\eiv Year-* greetings to the
Old Dominion,
HMEHICIIN FLUES WILL .
WAVE CITrS WELCOME
Cut riot ic Decorations to Br Made
I'eat ure of Home-Coming
of Troops.
TKNTATIVK 1?LA\S CHANGED
Fund of $ 1,500 Already Subscribed.
Committee Seeks $5,000 With
Which to Welcome Kach Detach
menl as They Return Home.
Patriotic decorations and music and
lh? wiivinR of a thousand (lacs by the
men. women nnd children of the city
will constitute the welcome to Rich
mond which awaits the First Regiment,
Virginia National (Juaril, when the sol
?J|ei hoys return to their homes within
the riexi few days from their post along
tile Mexican border.
Abandoning to a great degree the
id*-a of a hanqu't and a big dance,
which had been tentatively agreed
upon as the ??)' Itic hmond should
honor the hom?--. oniing soldiers, the
committee which is planning the recep
tion yesterday decided upon the less
expensive and. at the same time, the
more impressive way of showing the.
city's appreciation of the services ren
dered by Virginia's soldiery.
The consensus of opinion, voiced by
Adjutant-General Sale. William T.
I.'abney. folonel Jo Lane Stern. .Major
Allen Rotts and others, was that the
men would appreciate very much more
a gt-tieral ovation, with music, the wuv
inn of flags, and the Kruili-Hl possible
outpouring of citizens, than anything
In the way of entertainment
W ANTS (iKM'IXK Ol'TBlltST
OK fcl.NTIlt SIAS.tl I.N CITY
"What these boys want," said Mr.
I>abney, " s a genuine outburst of en
thusiasm on the purt of the people of
Hi. hmond They want you to show
them that you appreciate what they
have done, the sacrifices they have
mad*-, and that you ar?- really glad
to see them back home once more. Let
every man. woman and child in Rich
mond. who can. be out to receive them.
I.et there be plenty of music, plenty
of hurrahing, and the greatest possible
number of American flags."
Though there will not be quite so
much of a fe&.*t n* whs first planned,
the idea of refreshments and o dance
has not be.-n wholly abandoned. The
committee will in all probability have
prepared some kind of refreshment,
suitable to the time of day the men
will arrive, and will lay plans for a
small fiance to lie participated in only
hy the .soldiers and their invited guests
The place und lime will he decided upon
by the committee on entertainment.
Several bands ?ill be on hanu to
greet the men ami to furnish music oil
the march t<? the armory. At the sug
gestion of Colonel Stern, Colonel W. J.
IVrry, commanding the First Regl
ment. will be telegraphed immediately
:.i send the regimental band on with
the first section, instead of with the
last. ??* is the usual custom in the
movement of troops. The band then
will be able to meet ^ach incoming
| section.
! WII.I. ASK KOIt ISK
OK KOItT MOMIOK BAND
Besides this. Senator Martin will he
asked to secure the services of the
band from Fortress Monroe. This hand
j will l>e comparatively inexpensive,
i since the cost of maintenance while
j in the city will be the only expense
' incurred. It is thought that there will
, be little trouble in securing It. To this
' will he added the tife and drum corps
' of the Boy Scouts, and possibly two
or three' other Richmond bands.
The plan of march from the station
to the armory lias not been decided '
upon, but it is practically certain that
| a mors or less circuitous route will be
: chosen, in order to give the crowds
I some opportunity of seeing as much of
j the men as possible. The Richmond
I Boy Scouts will form a cordon on Sev
! enth Street, through which the regi
ment will march. Small American flags
will be placed in as many hands as
possible, and the streets will he deco
rated in patriotic colors.
To mnke the home-coming of the
regiment a big gala occasion in Rich
! mond. with as much as possible of
' the spirit of patriotism about It, the
I committee requests that not only resl
; dents and ufllce tenants along the line
of inarch decorate their places, hut that
' there he decorations generally through
out the city. The American (lag or i
colors should he used wherever pos. 1
slble.
The committee wishes to make it
I plain, too, that the campaign for funds
at this time has as its object the enter
tainment. not only of the First Regi
ment. but also the other Virginia
troops which nre now on the border,
and which will within the course of
j time be sent back to their home sta
tions. Tt is estimated that at least
| $5,000 will he needed to give a proper
i welcome to Virginia's quota of sol
i riiers. Contributors to that cause at
'this time will not be asked to make
contributions at another time when
f'otitinued on Last BageT) ~|
WATCH TIIF. OM> YEAH OCT AND TUB
NKW YKAR IN AT IIOTF.I. RICHMOND.
Runriay 11 P. M. Usual entertainment utter
Midnight. Reserve your tubles now.?Adv.
WITHDRAWAL URGED!
BY ARMY OFFICERS
Think Altered Conditions Make
It Imperative to Bring Men
Now in Mexico to Border.
VILLA GAINING STRENGTH
Situation Reaches Stage of Un
certainty That Causes Growing
Concern in Washington.
| | A f'resa I
WASHINGTON, Dercmbcr 30.?In
j croaiinK fvlrfi ncc that (Jmcra.) Car
ranza's government Is being menace*
by ban'Is of insurgents, coupled with
the prospect that the rust chief will
not accept the Atlantic City protocol
unless the condition it attaches to
wlhdrawal of the 'American troops is
eliminated has brought the Mexican
situation to a stage of uncertainty
that is causing growing concern here.
While officials admit that the condi
tions they confront ar?> embarrassing
and some high army officers are urginp
that Pershing's men be withdrawn as a
military step and regardless of condi
tions. it is insisted that so far there
ha.-* been no change In the administra
tion policy. The American members of
the joint commission which drew the
Atlantic City protocol will meet hero
on Tuesday to go over General Car
ranza's request for modification and to j
' consider whether any basis is offered |
1 for further conferences with the Mex
j lean commissioners. Charles A. Doug
Ins. an attorney for the Carranza gov
ernment. saw Counselor Polk, of th?
. State Department, to-day, and is un
1 derstood to have made a further plea
? for withdrawal of the troops.
j ( DIM) HI*. HANDLED
TO DETTKIt ADVtXT.YGK
Several arinv officers of high rank 1
ar* no longer attempting to conceal
: their Impatience over the joint com
' mission's failure to secure ratification
of an agreement, and openly are urging
: that the altered conditions in Mexico
'make It Imperative to bring the 12,000 ;
i men now in Mexico to positions on the
' border, where they could be handled to '
? better advantage If It becomes neces
: sary.
Reports to the Slate and War De
? pa rtments to-day supported unofficial
1 advices indicating that Villa is rapidly
gaining strength in Northern Mexico
that make his suppression by the Car
ranza army appear doubtful. At the
same time, followers of Felix Diaz are
said to be making trouble In the south, i
j while Manuel Paltie* and other rebel .
. leaden arc gaining ground lii the cen
tral portions of the republic.
* The official advices Indicated that the
. Carranza forces in Saltillo two days j
' ago were anticipating an attack by
Villa forces. The Governor of the
state had directed that the govern
' ment archives be prepar ed for removal,
1 and many prominent civilians and of- .
ficials had sent *.heir families to the
border. Successes of the Villa forces
about Torreon were confirmed by the
advices.
Villa's operations ir. the past few
weeks have convinced army men here
that lie and other leaders of the re
i actionary movement are following a
! plan of campaign having for its lm- 1
imitate object the recruiting of an
I army and the collection of equipment. I
j rather than the occupation of territory,
i it is pointed out that \ ilia has entered
towns of importance in Northern Mex
ico eight times since he resumed op
erations on a larger scale, only to sur
render them again without a struggle.
The net result has been to add to his
fighting strength materially.
VI I.I. A IIKI'OUTBD AGAIN
ON WAV TO CHI H t'A III A 1
Unofficial reports to-day that the
bandit leader was on his way to Chi
huahua aaain caused no surprise here.
' since it is known that General
Murguia's force there is not well sup
plied with ammunition, aud many
stories of disaffection in his army have
reached government agents on t lie
border. It is expected that Villa will ;
make every flTort to dispose or the 1
Murguia force before the arri\.tl of
General Dbregon. reported on hi- way
to Chihuahua to take command.
In a considerable area ncur T .xpan.
Manuel I'nlaez. who has been in ...ntroi
there for almost two years, 11 -1 r 1
centl.v extended his operations toward
the south without opposition. Moving
northward, apparently with tin nten
tion of joining him. is Jose Isabel
1 nobles, with a force estimated a', from
1.000 to r.,000. If a juncture s af
! fected. it would make posslMe the1
I isolation of the Carranza capital from
both Tampico and Vera Cruz. In co
operation with them. the Cedillo
i brothers appear to be operating along
! the railroad connecting San I. lis Po
los I and Tampico.
Gl'NS ANI) SOIjMIKHS
on inmtir.n Titip
I By Associated Press. |
i,AREDO. TEN.. December 3\?Six ,
1 machine orttrs m<> "itc-d o.- motor i-iry
| were sent liurriedly down the mo
I Grande from Laredo about 10 o'clock
i to-night, quickly followed by a motor- ;
cycle squad. Military authorities dc
I clined to give out any inforniation.
It Is believed, however, that :? new
I attempt is being made by a lilihuster
i ing expedition to enter Mexico.
j RECORD IN GOLD IMPORTS
Woek'n Inflow Cnrrlen Total for Vnr
the K.nominuN Sum of
9084,700(000.
NK.W VOP.K, Dfcemhor 3rt.?The In
| flow of gold this week carried the total
'of tho year's Imports to $684.700.000. :
This Is by far the greatest amount of ,
gold to entrr the United States in a .
single year. j
The total of imports for Ihe week in
behalf of the British Treasury amounts
to 553.000.000. The. heavy expansion .
of shipments since last Monday Is taken
in banking circles as an indication ,
that the Rrltish authorities are plan- ,
ning ?o continue sending gold here on j
I an enormous scale.
ENTENTE REFUSES OFFER I
FOR PEACE CONFERENCE!
DRAGNET FAST CLOSING
ON MURDERER OF WIFE
Elijah Jj. Davis Is Traced to Home
of Niece, 011 Twenty-Eighth
Street.
POLICE hope to get HIM SOON'
Theory of His .lumping in Hirer Is
Abandoned When Heports Come
In of His Being Seen Repeatedly
About Town.
The polite dragnet is fast closing
upon the tracks of Klijah [,. Da via.
who early Friday morning shut to
death his wife, Klnora Davis, ;t?
Twelfth and Hull Streets, South Rich
mond. and indications were last ninht
fit a late hour that he would l?e under
wriest before many more hours.
The eutir* police department lias
been active in the work ?.>f running
down Davis. Throughout yesterday
Detective Sergeants Wily, who was I
assigned to the case, and tjordun P. j
Smith and J. l?. Wiltshire tracked him. |
Thev found that he spent Friday in
the home of his niece. Mrs. Bryant,
! ;0;' North Twenty-eighth Street, lie
reached the home about S: 1 o'clock,'
:i.i-' r.cver left until t>: 1 u o clock that
night He appeared very much ex
rite.!. The family did not know at the ,
time that lie had killed his wife. He
left In-fore afternoon papers, carrying
tin* accounts, reached the home.
TIIKOItV OF IHIOW.V I\<;
is xow oisrni:i)iTi:n
The latest developments by the
police show that Davis did not go to
the James River and end his life, a*
(Continued on l.ast I'age.)
Funds Are Needed for
Receptio.i to Troops
SnrrldcfH for their country made
by the member* of the I'lml Vlr
H lulu Infantry drnrrve the reeos;
nltloii of Ihone who remained eoin
fortnlily nl home. Home Urn lunc
been broken, prrmmnl comfort
nlirlilKetl and fliintieliil Iosnci met
willingly l>y these Vlrglnl'i liiijrn,
tihn left for Hie border when llie
nor cloud* were trntherlns;. That
they hme ebeerfnlly endured llie
hnrdnlil|in of nl\ month* anionic the
nnnrin nnd enctun nlmiK the Itlo
tirnnde In im inueh to their credit an
If they had faeed the hnlleln Ihey
ex peeled.
To kIioh lln nppreelatlon of thin
rournite nnd manhood. Itleliniond
mennn to extend n henrty welcome,
one thnf will nlwnjrN be remembered
by the gunrdnmen. Money In needed
to earry out the plnnn of the eom
iii11tee appointed by "tlnyor Alnnlle
to nrrnnge for the welcome.
All rontrlhiitlonn nent In The
Tlmen-Hlnpnteh will be promptly
neknowledged.
Proposed Conference
Without Conditions,
Is Real War Maneuver
Entente Governments Re
fuse to Consider Ger
many's Offer as Sincere
Bid for Peace.
( Hy Associated 1
I'Altl.S, I >!?< ember 30.?The entente'
governments. in replying to Oermany,
declare that they refuse to consider ;
tii'i'many's insincere and ineffective1
proposition tor a conference.
Tin- suggested conference without1
conditions is not a peace offer, the
note sn>s, but Is rather a war
measut e.
i .o- text of the note follows:
"TIi" allieil governments of Belgium,
I'rance. iSreat Itrituln, Italy. Japan,
Montenegro. Portugal, Rouinania, Kus
si.i and Serlr'a, united for the defense
of tin- liberty of their peoples and
faithful to engagements taken not to
lav- down their arms separately, have
resolved to reply collectively to the
pretended propositions of peace, which
were addressed to them on behalf of
the enemy governments through the in
termediary of the United .States. .Spain,
Switzerland and Holland. liefore ?
making any reply, the allied powers
desire particularly to protest against
the two essential assertions of the!
note of the enemy powers that pretend
to throw upon the allies responsibility,
for the war and proclaim the victory!
of the central powers.
"The allied governments cannot art
mil an aflirmatlon doubly Inexact and ,
which suffices to render sterile all ten
tative negotiation. The allied nations
have sustained for thirty months a
war they did everything to avoid.'
They have shown by their acts their
attachment to peace. That attachment
is as strong to-day as it was in l!ilt.
I?nt it is not upon (he word of Tier
niatiy. after the violation of its en
gagement. that the peace biokcti hy I
her may be based.
Mr.itr. si (i(iKSTi?\
not orrr.it or pkack
"A mere suggestion, without a state-j
ment of terms, that negotiations
should be opened is not an offer of j
peace. The putting forward by the'
imperial government of a sham pro-!
posa 1 lacking all substance and pre
cision would appear to be less an offer -
of peace than a war maneuver. It is
founded on calculated tuisin t erpret a - ;
tion of the elvtraotcr of the struggle j
in the past, the present and the ;
future. . j
"As for the past, the Herman note ;
takes no account of the facts, dates)
anil figures which establish that the j
war was desired, provoked and declared
by Germany anil Austria-Hungary.
"At The Hague conference it was a 1
German delegate who refused all pro- j
posals for disarmament. I11 July. 1314. |
it was Austria-Hungary who. after!
having addressed to Serbia an unpre- i
cedent, d ultimatum, declared war upon
her, in spite of the satisfaction which |
had at once been accorded.
"The central empires then rejected
all attempts made by the entente to;
bring about a pacific solution of a.
purely local conflict. Great Britain |
suggested a conference; France pro-,
posed 'an international commission:1
the limperor of Russia asked the Ger
man Kmperor to go to arbitration, and
riussift and Austria-Hungary came to
an understanding on the eve of the
conflict. But to all these efforts Ger- !
many gave neither answer nor effect, j
"Belgium was violated by an empire'
who had guarantee*! her neutrality, j
and which had the assurance to pr*>- '
claim thut treaties were 'scraps of
paper' and that 'necessity knows no
law."
SUA II lirKlillS ItKflT UN
\VA It MAI* OK r.rilOIMC
"At the present moment these sham 1
offers on the part of Germany rest on
the 'war map' of Ktiropo alone, which
represents nothing r.iorc than a super
ficial and passing phase of the situa
tion. and not the real strength of the
belligerents. A pence concluded upon
these terms would be only to the ad
vantage of the aggressors, who. after
imagining that I hey would reach their
goal in two months, discovered after
two years that the\ could never at
tain ii.
"As for the future, the disasters
caused l?\ ih<' German deda rat ion of
war and the innumerable outrages
committed by Germany and her allies
against both belligerents and neutrals,
demand penalties, reparation and guar
antee. Germany axoids mention of
any of these.
"In reality, these overtures made by
the central powers are nothing more
than a calculated attempt to influence
the. future course of war, and to end
it by imposing 11 German peace. The
object of these overtures is to create
dissension 111 public opinion 111 the al
lied countries. lint that public opinion
has. in spite of all the sacrifices en
dured l>> the allies, already given its
answer with admirable tirmne.ss. and
has denounced the empty pretense 01
the declaration of the enemy powers.
"They have the further object of
(Continued on l<ast Ikc i
AMI K VI I.I.K-ATl.A N'l'A - III It >11 Mill \M
NKW OHI.KANN-TKNAN
Three tr-tlic* dully Mk Southern Hallway.
?Adv.
Jj
IS CALLED EMPTY
AND INSINCERE
Founded on Calculated Mis
interpretation of Char
acter of War.
v!
FORMAL REPLY HANDED
TO AMBASSADOR SHARP
Declares No Peace Possible Un
til Reparation for Violated
Rights Is Secured.
WASHINGTON" REMAINS SILENT
Still Hopes That Some Means for
Further Exchange Between Bel
liferents Will Be Found.
Press.!
PARTS. Drcember 30.?In reply to
the proffer of Germany and her allies
Tor a peace conference, tho entente
allies, in a collective note, daclire
that they "refuse to consider & pro.
r-osal which is empty and Insincere."
Tho note was handed to the American
ambassador. William Graves Sharp, to
day by Premier Briand. and was made
public simultaneously In London and
Paris.
The entente allied governments In
sist that no peace Is possible so Ion*
they have not secured reparation
for violated rights and liberties and
. fr"ft ?>?tMiee of small states and
have not brought about a settlement
??r the future security of the world
The note declares that the proposal
of tlio central powers is not an off?r
of peace, but a "war maneuver." It Is
declare.I to be founded on "calculated
mialntcrpretation of the character of i
the rtrusple in the past, the present ?
and the future."
The note does not speoincallv out
line the different war afnis of any oJ '
the entente governments cxcept Bel
gium. Before the war. It Is pointed
out. Belgium asked for nothing but to
live In harmony with her neighbors
Assailed in spite of the treaties guar
anteeing her inviolability. Belgium, the
noto says, has taken up arms to de
fend her independence and "her neu
trality violated by Germany."
FOR RE-ESTABLISHMENT
OP PEACE AXD JUSTICE
Belgium1* aim, which is declared to
be the only aim of her King and gov
ernment. is described as "the re-estab
lishment of peace and Justice. But
they only desire peace which would
assure to their country legitimate re
paration. guarantees and safeguards
for i lie future."
The note, which Is the joint act of
Belgium, France. Great Britain. Italy.
Japan, Montenegro. Portugal. Rou
mania. Russia and Serbia, declares
that the present strife was desired. ?
provoked and declared by Germany
and Austria - Hungary, and that Ger
many made no effort to bring about a
pacific solution of the trouble between
Serbia and Austria-Hungary, as did
Great Britain, France and Russia.
"A peace concluded on the German
idea would he only to the advantage
<>f the central powers," says the note,
"while disasters caused by the war
demand penalties. reparation and
gua rant ees."
The German overtures are described
as a calculated attempt to Influence
the future course of the war and to
en.l II by imposing a German peace.
The overtures also are said to have
the effect of intimidating neutral pub
lic opinion as well as to stiffen opin
ion in the central powers, "worn out
b> economic pressure and crushed by
the supreme effort which lias been im
posed upon their inhabitants."
"Finally," it is asserted, "these over
tures attempt to Justify in advance in
the eyes of the world a new series of
crimes?submarine warfare, deporta
tions. forced labor and forced enlist
ment of the inhabitants against their
own countries and violations of neu
traitty "
NO OFFICIAL EXPRESSIONS
OF \ li:\VS OF ADMINISTRATION
I Bv A?soclnt?(i I're.tH.]
\V A SI I IXGT< >N", December 30.-?There
were no official expressions here of the
views of President Wilson and the ad
ministration on the entente reply to
t lie tierman peace proposals, for the
dual reason that the L'nited States Is
acting only a> an intermediary be
tween tlie belligerent.-, and because a
policy of silence bus been adopted dur
ing this stage of the peaec negotia
t ions.
I lie unofficial opinion, which proh
al>l> was a reflection of the official
bopn for progress toward peace, was
that some means for a further ex
change between the warring powers i
would be found, and that even if the
present negotiations fail, a basis hat
been laid which it was hoped would
make for progress ;n the filial analysis.
First informal comment by one of
tlclal wlio had had a chance to study
carefully an official forecast, and who
checked against it the full press text,
was that the allie.; had responded verv
much as expected, that they had played
their strongest cards for moral sup
port among their own people and In
neutral countries and that while they
had made it hard for Germany to reply
m
