THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and continued cold to-day; to
morrow, fair and warmer.
Highest temperature yesterday, 301 lowest, if.
Detailed weather, mail and marine report an pas 7,
IT SHINES FOP LL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 122.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1916. Copyright , 1518, ty (he Bun PrMing and rubHshlng Atfciatton.
66 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS,
ENTENTE ALLIES REFUSE TO TALK PEACE WITH ENEMIES;
TEUTONS ARE TOLD THEY CANNOT POSE AS CONQUERORS;
"PROPOSAL WHICH IS EMPTY AND INSINCERE" SET ASIDE
MISCONDUCT BY
SWANN,CHAR6E
OF DELEHANTY
let i linjj Judge Hulie ves
Deliberate Fraud Prac
tised on the Court."
WAS ASKED TO FREE
27 LABOR LEADERS
Hies Memorandum Asking
Governor to Investigate
District Attorney.
Jtmes A. tjehsnty, whose term as
Mt of General Sessions expire to
4y. asked Gov. Whitman yesterday to
Investigate the conduct of Edward
Jtrsnn as District Attorney "to deter
mine whetlicr a deliberate fraud haa not
beta practised on the court."
lie charges In brief that Mr. Swann
ad an assistant District Attorney, John
T. Doollng. have done their utmost to
an free without trial twenty-five men
saa two women, mostly tabor leader,
indicted for asaualt, rioting-, attempted
lltortlon or robbery In the series of
urment workers strikes that disturbed
tie city In 1914.
Judxe Delehanty has tiled with the
ritrk of General Heslons a fifteen pate
memorandum telling the story of these
cues and what was done about them,
lie nt a 'copy of It to the clovernor
by registered malt, with a letter saying
thit In his opinion official action Is war
ranted In the memorandum he says the pa
pers dearly Indicate that Mr. Hwnnn and
Vr. Doollng- "agreed to so dispose of
th cues as to prevent a trial of them
m the punishment of any guilty man."
WILSON GALLS
AT CAPITOL TO
URGE R.R.BILLS
President Confers With Sen
ator Norlands on Two
Drastic Measures. .
COMMITTEE BEGINS
HEARINGS TUESDAY
Compulsory Probe of Dis
putes and Slilitarizing
Roads Are Issues.
Molina (o .Dismiss All.
A motion to dismiss nil the Indict
aims had been before Judge Delehanty.
He passed It along to another Judge,
siring that he, Delehanty, may not act
M a Judge of cases In which he has
once been counsel (as Assistant District
Attorney).
"I believe that motion was made be.
ttre me," tie says In a atatement apart
(rem the memorandum, "In the expecta
tion that I would have passed It without
ramment to some other Judee or that I
would set favorably and thus close the
Istt avenue of Information to the public
of a hat has been done."
The lawjers for the twenty-reven de
fendants an Max Levlne, Tammany
leader tit the Ktghtti Assembly district,
nd Abraham I.evy, who Is or was a
member of the law committee of Tarn-
Risnv Hall. Jintirp Delli.mi- snvs that
Nr. Miami and Mr. Doom a agreed w tin I.
WAsitiNdTOV, Dec. 0. Aroused by
the position assumed by'the brotherhood
chiefs at their conference with the rati
roil manager regarding the enforce
ment of the eight hour law President
Wilson has decided to put Ills shoulder
to the legislative wheel ami do what he
can to force through Congress the two
measures to which the brotherhoods and
Samuel Oompers stand opposed.
These are the measures calling for a
compulsory Investigation of railroad
labor disputes, during which a strike
would be prohibited, and glilng the
President the power to take DmnMilan
of the railroads and telegraph lines and
draft their employees In case of military
nectsslty. I
Though a halt holiday the I'realdent '
paid a visit to the Capitol this after- i
noon and Proceeded stralcht to the
rooms of Senator Newlands, chairman
of the .Senate Committee on Interstate
Commerce. For half an hour the Presl
dent and the Senator conferred over the
situation that, has arisen.
Senators Are Dasafosjnded.
Everybody except Senator Newlands
was dumfounded when the President ap
peared. All that Chairman Newlatida
would say afterward was that the Pres
ident was as deeply Interested In the
proposed legislation at he had ever been
and was icry anxious to have It put
through us soon us possible.
Senator Newlands will begin hearings
on the two hills Tuesduy. He hopes to
be able to conclude tflem by Friday and
to report the bills soon afterward.
The President did not see the chair
man of the House Committee. Judge
Adunifon. who 1 at his home In Georgia.
Senator Newlands could not say to-day
who would be the witnesses, except In a
general way. 'The rallmad brother
hoods have been notified," said he, "and
the railway executives will be heard,
amf I suppose that the public, which af
ter all Is most to be considered, will
have a say."
Obstacles to Two Measures.
The President's decision to set busy
once with the leaders In Congress has
m f.M- It,. Inl-ln ..I... m,MI-' " -" Hi llFlt.... ...
I part hy HrerLlnrldae.
I
I sailing, The committee Is far from be
ing unanimous even in sunnort of the
This agreement was upset "by the vlg- ' bill to suspend strikes and lockouts.
oroim pioteM" of I.ucl.in S. Breckinridge, Senator Cummins, one member of the
ho had charge of the Investigation lead- I committee, said to-day that the bill
would have Just one vote In the commit
tee, that of the chairman. Senator New.
Isnds, himself. The Senator also ex
pressed the opinion that a substitute
would come out of the Senate committee.
If anything was reported on the subject,
which would follow the lines of his own
suggestions for publicity solely, cutting
out the feature for suspension of strike
orders and lockouts temporarily, or thnt
the committee would adopt Senator Un
derwood's suggestion and give the In
terstate Commerce Commission authority
to fix wages and hours of service Just as
they now fix rates.
."Verdana1 Makes I'oasplalat.
Senator Newlands Intimated that the
bills to he reported would not differ ma
terially from the one he hns Introduced
and which was drawn under the advice
of the Attorney-General and with Ad
ministration approval.
The Senator complained again to-day
that there was a persistent purpose to
misrepresent the conciliation bill to
make It appear as a "compulsory arbi
tration" bill. ,
"I do not think there Is any Imme
diate danger of astrlke," said Senitor
Newlsnds. "The public and the legls
Istlve mind Is intent upon a solution of
this question that will be fair to the Im
mediate parties and the public, the pub
lic of course being the larger Interest."
wg to tne indictments when lie was an
assistant under District Attorney Whit
man, and was retained by Mr. Pwann as
special counsel. For the first time Judge
Delehanty makes public the fact that Mr.
Breckinridge on March 23 last resigned
Ms. cnmmKMon after telIlrT Mr. Swann
iat the proposed acceptance of the eight,
flea "Ui n travesty on Justice and an
outrage on decency."
Thereafter, saya Judge Delehanty. an
arrangement was made to dismiss all the
"an-., fin n recommendation presented
to another General Sessions Judge the
lail of n the twenty-seven defendants
discharged and they are now at
lar
"This recommendation was filed." says
Judge Delehanty, "without any real In
iMtlcallon of the cases and without see
tol the witnesses. The result Is that
iai namu-d ujn by the Grand Juty
sad Involving the most vital Inteiests of
the oinmutilty have been dismissed
without belns submitted to a petit Jury."
Fire Wit iienses ,ot IlitervlriTert.
He siinrhcs to Ills memorandum affl
jaiit.s i,y fhe witnesses who were to
nic ietini'd In these cusea anil a state
ment of Detective Clinton W. Wood that
acli of there witnesses and nine others
"Id Mm that no one of the District At
torney s office had Interviewed or sub
poenaed them or requested them to call
Inre I )e. ember, 1315. These are sub
mitted in Hie Governor as nertlnent to
r Ithe as ertlon of Assistant District At-
.viii.-v neu, 114 ma recommenuaiioii on
June H of this year that ball be dls
fharced, that he was convinced "after
rno.n i ghl and thninugh examination
'hat h innvlction could not he had."
Ju'tcr Delehanty was himself an A.
Jjt.ni (mulct Attorney when Mr.
""hitman was Manhattan nrosccutor
nd enjojed the confidence of his chief I
" men n degree that he wns acting
Dlst'ict Attorney In Mr. Whitman's ah
r ' Hy appointment from Gov. Whit
man V went on the General Sessions
"lie i n vent- ago, succeeding Judge
Hint THiiiinaiiy refusing him a
'nir nMon for reelection Judge Dele
lif mi mi the Itepiibllcau unci Pro
" i- ticket mid was defeated by
"' 'I'.iiiiiiiany candidate, John F, Me
Inlire i) HO hIIkIii ii margin that a re
count , now iii progress,
l iillmn (lose on Wood Case.
Oi Wednesday Iuhi another General
' 'i Judge, who was likewise an
Ai-' Dlntrlc! Attorney under Mr.
w'l. i. , i"i,ires ('. Nntl denied the
of Mr Hviann for dlniilssul of
J" 'I" ' "idli'tineut ngHlnst llohert
u f nierly h I'lihllc Service
Tins gaiM the Criminal
1 1 I ' iu ii iliiike, but It was.
'1' ii mip.ircil In the foiivillslon
tausnj ii, iii" action taken by Judge
C'Hifiuiiefi on Hlxth Pag.
"NO IMMEDIATE STRIKE"
rotaerbaod Chiefs Dear Clrralar
Was Meat to Railroad Mea.
Clrvklanu, Dec. JO. Warren 8. Stono
and W. G. Iee. heads of the Hallway
Engineers and lUllwwy Trainmen
brotherhoods respectively, arrived In
Cleveland to-day following the rejection
of the demand by the managers' com
mittee that the Adamson law be placed
In effect January 1.
"It la highly Improbable that there
will be a strike Monday," Stone tnld.
l,ee said "there will be no Immediate
strike."
Ho declared the report that a cir
cular letter had been sent to railway
employees asking for a rcnewul of the
authority to call a general strike was
untrue. "No circular haa yet been pre
pared," he said.
. M. Maltta Hestorrd to Bar.
The name of Philip 8. Saltta, attorney,
who was convicted of grand larceny In
1911 and disbarred, only to have the
Couit of Appeals reverse the decision,
with the result that District Attorney
Smiiiiii had the Indictment quashed, has
been leslured by the Appellate Division
to the roster nf pr.ictlsliiK attorneys.
t'l'HA. n.ONIO.t. HAVANNAII, AUdl'STA.
I All Bteei trains j'aur. Aiianiin mill
1.1ns It. B i till Bsray, Tel. Mod. gq. 1U0.
TEXT OF ENTENTE GOVERNMENTS' REPLY TO TEUTONIC ALLIES
PARIS, Dec. ,W. The text of the note of the Entente Government to the Central Poiccrx and their allies repining
to the overtures for o- peace conference recently proposed is as follows:
The allied Governments of Belgium, France, Great Britain,
Italy, Japan, Montenegro, Portugal, Rumania, Russia and Serbia,
united for the defence of the liberty of their peoples and faithful
to engarements taken not to lay down their arms separately, have
resolved to reply collectively to the pretended propositions of
peate which were addressed to them on behalf of the anemy
Governments through the intermediary of the United States,
Spain, Switzerland and Holland.
Before making any reply the Allied Powers desire particu
larly to protest against the two essential assertions of the notes
of the enemy Powers that pretend to throw upon the Allies re
sponsibility for the war and proclaim the victory of the Central
Powers.
The allied Governments cannot admit an affirmation doubly
inexact and which suffices to render sterile all tentative negotia
tions, Tha allied nations have sustained for thirty months a war
they dial everything to avoid. They have shown by their acts
their attachment to peace. That attachment U as strong to-day
as it was in 1914, But it is not upon tha word of Germany after
the violation of its engagements that tha peace broken by her may
bo batod.
A mere suggestion without a statement of terms that nego
tiations should be opened is not an offer of peace. The putting
forward by the Imperial Government of a sham proposal lacking
all substance and precision would appear to be less an offer of
pence than a war mnncpuvre. It is founded on calculated misin
terpretation of the character of the struggle in the past, the pres
ent and the future.
As for the past, the German note takes no account of the
facts, dates and figures which establish that the war was desired,
provoked and declared by Germany and Austria-Hungary.
At the Hague conference it was a German delegate who
refused all proposals for disarmament. In July, 1914, it was
Austria-Hungary who, after having addressed to Serbia an un
precedented ultimatum, declared war upon her in spite of the
satisfaction which had at once been accorded.
Tha Central Empires then rejected all attempts made by tk
Entonta to bring about a pacific solution of a purely local conflict.
Great Britain suggested a conference, France proposed an inter
national commission, tha Emperor of Russia asked the German
Emperor to go to arbitration and Russia and Austria-Hungary
cam to an understanding on the eve of th conflict. But to all
tbs effort Germany gave neither answer nor affect.
Belgium was invaded by an empire which had guaranteed
her neutrality and which had the assurance to proclaim that
treaties were "scraps of paper" and that "necessity knows no
law."
At the present moment these sham offers on the part of
Germany rest on the war map of Europe alone, which represents
nothing more than a superficial and passing phase of the situa
tion and not the real strength of the belligerents. A peace con
cluded upon these terms would be only to the advantage of the
aggressors, who after imagining that they would reach their goal
in two months discovered after two years that they could never
attain it.
As for th future, the disasters caused by th German decla
ration of war and th innumerable outrages committed by Gar
many and her allies against both belligerents and neutrals demand
penalties, reparation and guarantees. Germany avoids mention
of any of these.
In reality these overtures made by the Central Powers are
nothing more than a calculated attempt to influence the future
course of the war and to end it by imposing a German peace.
The object of these overtures is to create dissension in public
opinion in the allied countries. But that public opinion has in
spite of all the sacrifices endured by the Allies already given its
answer with admirable firmness and has denounced the empty
pretence of the declaration of the enemy Powers.
They have the further object of stiffening public opinion in
Germany and in the countries allied to her one and all, severely
tried by their losses, worn out by economic pressure and crushed
by the supreme effort which has been imposed upon their in
habitants. They endeavor to deceive and intimidate public opinion in
neutral countries whose inhabitants have long since made up their
minds where the initial responsibilities lie and are far too on
lightened to favor the designs of Germany by abandoning- the
defence of human freedom.
Finally these overtures attempt to justify in advance in th
yes of th world a nw series of crimes submarine warfare,
deportations, forced labor and forced enlistment of th inhabi
tants against their own countries, and violation of neutrality.
Fully conscious of th gravity of this moment, but equally
conscious of its requirements, th allied Governments, closely
united to on another and in perfect sympathy with their peoples,
rafus to consider a proposal which is amply and insincere. One
again th Allies declare that no peace is possible so long as they
have not secured reparation for violated rights and liberties, th
recognition of th principle of nationalities and of the free ex
iatence of small Stalest so long as they have not brought about a
settlement calculated to end one and for all forces which have
constituted a perpetual menace to th nations and to afford the
only effective guarantee for the future security of th world.
In conclusion, the allied Powers think.it necessary to put for
ward the following considerations, which show the special situa
tion of Belgium after two and a half years of war.
In virtue of the international treuties signed by five great
European Powers, of whom Germany was one, Belgium enjoyed
before the war a special status, rendering her territory inviolable
and placing her, under the guarantee of the Powers, outside all
European conflicts. She was, however, in spite of these treaties
the first to suffer the aggression of Germany. For this reason
the Belgian Government thinks it necessary to define the aims
which Belgium has never ceased to pursue while fighting side by
side with the Entente Powers for right and justice.
Belgium has always scrupulously fulfilled the duties which
her neutrality imposed upon her. She has taken up arms to tie
fend her independence and her neutrality, violated by Germany,
and to show that she remains faithful to her international obliga
tions. On th 4th of August. 1914, in7 the Reichstag lb German
Chancellor admitted that this aggression constituted an injustice
contrary to the laws of nations and pledged himself in th nam
of Germany to repair it. During two and a half years this injus
tice has been cruelly aggravated by the proceeding of th occu
pying forces, which have exhausted the resources of th country,
ruined its industries, devastated its towns and villages and have
been responsible for innumerable massacres, executions and im
prisonments. At this very moment, while Germany is proclaiming peace
and humanity to the world, she is deporting Belgian citizens by
thousands and reducing them to slavery.
Belgium before the war asked for nothing but to live in
harmony with her neighbors. Her King and her Government
have but one aim the rcestablishment of peace ami justice. But
they only desire peace which would assure to their country
legitimate reparation, guarantees and safeguards for the future.
Collective Reply Declares the Cen
tral Powers' Proposal Is Not a Pa
cific Offer but a War Manoeu
vre Carefully Calculated
ALLIED AIMS SUMMARIZED;
PENALTIES AND REPARATION
Foes Accused of Trying to Intimidate Neutral
Public Opinion and to Bolster Up People
at Home in Face of Economic Disaster
PARIS, Dec. HO. In reply to the proffer of Germany ancl
her allies for a peace conference the Entente Allies, in a col
lective note, declare that they "refuse to consider a proposal
which is empty and insincere." The note was handed to tha
American Ambassador, William Graves Sharp, to-day by
Premier Briantl, and was made public simultaneously in Lon
don and Paris.
The allied Governments insist that no peace is possible so
long as they have not secured reparation for violated rights
and liberties and the free existence of small States, and have
j not brought about a settlement for the future security of the
world. The note declares that the proposal of the Central
Powers is not an offer of peace, but a "war manoeuvre."
It is declared to be founded on "calculated misinterpreta
tion of the character of the .struggle in the past, the present
and the future."
CHURCHMEN TO FIGHT
ANY PREMATURE PEACE
SPAIN RRFtlRRR TO BACK bernstorff hopeful
nn r r nrsxirr n r iirrf 0"kH OF AN OPENING WEDGE
.Movement Started iu Phila
delphia hy Men Prominent
in Itellprious Work.
Note Sent to United States Says Time Is Not
portune and That Action Taken Now Will
Be Inefficacious.
Op-
I'iiii.miki ruiA, Dec, 30. Leading
churchmen of the L'nlted States led, It Is
said by church authorities of this city,
have launched n movement In opposi
tion to the uc eptaiicc of premature
pence itKioenient hy the warring nations
of Kurnpr. ,
Details of Ihe movement, according to
an announcement hy Oeorge Wharton
l"epper of this city, a prominent Epis
copalian layman, will bo made puhllc In
a statement to be given out In Wash
ington lii-morrow. The movement Is
said to ln In the nature of a counter
drive nsr.ilnst tho paclllst propaganda
conducted hy the Church I'eace Union,
organized by Antliew Carnegie, The
statement will be sinned by churchmen
of vnrloui fiilths, including several
Hlshops. It Ih paid.
Tlio movement was first discussed at
n meeting In the olllce of Mr. Pepper on
Thursday. A majority of those present
approved the movement find leading
churchmen all oer tho country were
communicated with by telegraph and tel
ephone nud their signatures to the docu
ment were obtained. It will be sent
broadcast over the country, and It Is
the expectation nf the originators that
It will gain htrength dally.
"Tho main object of the movement Is
to call attention to the fact that peace
founded upon expediency would not be
of permanent benefit to tho world," said
lllshop Joseph P. Iterry (Methodist) to
day. "There are certain great moral
principles Involved In the world war, and
If It were to end now they would not
be definitely settled."
RIVALS TAKE OATH.
MAiMtin, l.i Carls. Dec. 30. The Span
Inh tioveriiment has sent a no'.e In reply
to I'leHilent Wilson's with refeicnce to
Kacu iin follows
"The Spanish Uoverunient has leielvcd
from the Ambnss.idor of the I'nlted
States the note nent by the I'l'isident of
the Culled State to th helllKerent na
tions, and another communication, In
which It Is said the moment Is oppor
tune for action bv the (lovernment of
Ills Majesty Iu support of the attitude
taken by the (lovernment of the Culled
States.
"Tim Spanish trovernment. In ansaer
to the Initiative of the President of the
United suites, knowing the various Im
pressions produced, believes that tho uc
tlon In which Spain Is Invited to par
ticipate mill be Inefficacious, especially
as the Central Umpires have expressed
their Intention that tho peace conditions
shall he accouled ecluslel iiiuunu the
belligerent.
"NovertheleM. the Sp.iuih liovern
mi'i t. h i vlntr III coi.Kldi'i .itlon the noble
ilclres of tin- Ann lic.in Unwiumenl,
which .ire wiil!i uf all iH'opli-M, Ih ills
posed to nsMoclate Itself with every neKo.
tlation which li.fi tor IH object the
facilitating of Ih." humanitarian work
of ending Die present war
"Spain, however, will suspend nil ac
tion until the time when her cfimts anil
work In favor of pence can be nune u-e-fill
and elllciiclotix than nt the inc. nil
1 time I'ntll then the Spanish (lovern
ment belleert It uould be innpportuiiH to
decline with recaiil In an I'liteiile of iho
neutral Powers fur tin" defence of their
Interefts that It is illn-l now, as It
was nt the beginning of tho wtr, to coin
nience negotiations which might lead to
an not'ord capable of uniting the bellle
eient Powers."
War Aim Not Specifically Outlined.
The note does not specifically outline the definite watf
aims of any of the Entente Governments, except Beligum. Be
fore the war, it is pointed out, Belgium asked for nothing but
to live in harmony with her neighbors. Assailed in spite of
the treaties guaranteeing her inviolability, Belgium, the note
says, has taken up arms to defend her independence and
"her neutrality violated by Germany."
Belgium's aim, which is declared to be the only aim of
her King and Government, is described as "the reestablish
ment of peace and justice. But they only desire peace which
would assure to their country legitimate reparation, guaran
tees ami sateguards for the future."
The note, which is the joint act of Belgium, France,
Great Britain. Italy, Japan. Montenegro, Portugal, Rumania,
( Russia and Serbia, declares that the present strife was de
sired, provoked and declared by Germany and Austria-IIun-jgary,
and that Germany made no effort to bring about a
, pacific solution of the trouble between Serbia and Austria
I Hungary, as did Great Britain. France and Russia.
Disadvantage in the Peace Plan.
A peace concluded upon the German idea would be
only to the advantage of the Central Powers, says the note,
( while disasters caused by the war demand penalties, repara
tion iinu guarantees.
The German overtures are described as a calcnlaiprl at
tempt to influence the future course of the war and to end it
by imposing a German peace. The overtures are also said to
have the effect of intimidating neutral public opinion as vell
as to stiffen opinion in the Central Powers, "worn out by
economic pressure and crushed by the supreme effort which
i has been imposed upon their inhabitants."
l'inally, it is asserted, "these overtures attempt to
justify in advance in the eyes of the world a new series of
crimes submarine warfare, deportations, forced labor and
lorced enlistment ot the inhabitants against their own coun-
t ! tt ...
imiente (!overnment t . the i . ntr.,1 1 n ies ami violations ol neutrality.
marAmbXhir is expected some days will elapse before the ISntento
'"'i"'"'-!!.,,,, having u.ee.,e.ii!!uw!!rs WH n"e Pblic their reply to the suggestions ot
the MiniuMf of .1 ,.11-ni'Ki of statins term President u ilson m tavor of the reestablishtnont of nfni"i
Hclioves bVrlin Will Awail
Terms Indicated in the
Keply to Wilson.
AklliNUTON. Dec. SO- ft .'Li in
i I ln not thin); that hl note will I
anxweieil by my (lot eminent until after
tho Kntente Allies havo replied to the
President's suggestion, "tatlng, if thi
so leslre, the modus they propose " '
The Oenn.iu Ivinbsssy was outwimlh
not fivorahly impressed with the tenor
of the Rntente note. However, the
declaration that "a ineie Mng...tini ,
without ,i statement of trim., tint
in'Mtiuilons should be opened Is not an
offer uf peace" tins taken to mia u a
veiled Invitation to give terms ,
BERLIN LOOKS TO WILSON
TO MAKE ALLIES SWITCH
MOTHER'S RING TO FAIRBANKS.
i
JUSTICE WAIsSH SWORN IN. i WDLLARD SANSS DIES BY LEAP,
Two Men
tlnlm o He
of Arlsnna.
I'iioknix, Alix., Pee. .10, Tho flilber
eT City Court OfHrlnl Takes Of
fice llefore 1'rlcndV
John I.. Wulsh, elected Justice of the
City Court on the Democratic ticket, was
sworn Into offlco yesterday In the cham
bers of his former employer, Justice John
V. McAvoy. He took the place of Justice
Samuel Htriisbnurger, appointed by Oov,
Whitman on October 1 to till out the tin
explied term of Justice nichard T.
Lynch.
Justice Htrasbourger ran for office
airalu as a Itepubllraii, hut was def-aled.
On his retirement yesterduv' n silver
(Inventor ! mounted cane mid uinhcllii set was pre.
Rented to It 1 1 ii hy Clerk .1, J, McSheriy
on behair of tne attaches of the City
Court.
anil
natorlal contest In Arizona k'came more
complicated to-day when both Oov,
Cleorge W, P. Hunt, Democrat, and Tom
Campbell, Itepubllcan. claimant of the
office through the recent election, took
Ihe oath of office A lecount of the
ballots which save Campbell a slight
lead Is Incomplete,
The foimal liiiiugiiratlnn will take
place Monday nioriilng, llov. Hunt's
Urni expiring at noon that day,
I'.lade .Mother mid .Nurse
lumps Into hcsiipenUe.
Nosrni.K, Vn., Dec SO. Suffering
fiom nervousness Yvlllard Sands of New prob.n
nil. i n jiuni'ru inn. v iii'i.i M'.i ni. cm
from tho Pcnnsv Ivaiiln Ilallroad steam
boat Maryland to-day and was di owned,
The body was not recovered,
Sands with his mother and a nurse
was en route to nld Point Comfort,
where Mrs, sands had Intended to keep
her son several weeks In the h'iM that
it would honcllt his health Mrs. Sands
Is now nt the Chiiinbeiilu Hotel under
the care of a physician and nurse, Her
condition Is wild to ho serious.
WASHINGTON', Dee. 30. The Entente's swecpini: rejection of tho
peace proposals of the Central Powers caused no surprise to President
Wilson or to foreign emlmssies here. The ofllcinl text confirms the nc
I curacy of the btimnutrie which enme through diplomntic channels yeater
duy nnd were printed in THE SUN to-day.
The lust vestiire of doubt which either the President or Count von
Heinstorff had as to the hope of the Entente' discussing the pence offers
have lieen dissipated. The peace proposals of the Central Powers hnvo
' brought forward onlv nn elaborate indictment of C
In Jl.uihl. iiii.i in, .. .
wife 1. Tho Instrument was ; tile, fm-1 l"' ""''" "enwcti or navitiB ' expected In ifsponse t.i oflern comlng
Wlfe nf (lie Actor llereltm
fuller Ihe Will.
Under the will of his mother, Mie
I'lln A I'.iiibanks. who died I leceinliei
:M. Iioushis Kali bunks receiv es mi opal
and diamond ring: his voune son rv.ni-.
i.ie, .11 , an uiieiest
jesterdny. The residue of the
cuate goes to her grandchildren.
Ileferrlng to the actor's wife, who was
the daughter of Daniel Sully, once known
the "Cotton King," Mrs, Kulrbanks
stated in her will: "Having no personal
properly which my dauKhter-ln lnvv, neili
Kalrhanks, would upprecinle, I give and
beiuirntli unto her tho sum of Jl,"
FILIPINOS CAN'T BE CITIZENS.
pins
wanted, provoked anil ileclaicil war." direct from the enemy and now
of having refused King Ocorgo's offer crr-meni vnison.
, , t.erinany and her allies look now
for a peace conference before the con- frankly to President Wilson for keeping
fliigratiou began mid to have Ignored i ,," Teuton propolis alive. , refusal
the tVnr's efforts mill tho efforts f ' to iIIhcuss peace with Cernmny doei not
eaUanl rleeMa Malted iM I". M,
le Nassau eta Jackseavlll otr, Aiv.
PRESIDENT HURT GOLFING.
Sir. Wilson Kali on a Mill and
Wrenches nkle.
Wahiiimiton, Dec, 30. President
Wilson fell on a sllpp-iy hillside while
playing golf to-day and wrenched his
ankle,
He was able to continue the game, but
walked with a decided limp the real of
th day.
Cruiser (inutols Torpedoed.
Paius, Dec. 31, The rtencli armored
cruiser Oaulols was torpedoed In the
Mediterranean Sea on December 27 and
sank In half an hour, uccordlng to nn
official announcement.
Diving to the coolness nf the irnw.tnd
Ihe arrival of pmol bonis Hutu were
only four vlctlin, two of whom were
killed by the explosion.
I . J ml n r Holds They're Inrllnl-
lilr for Viiturnllmitloii.
Ilosni.t'1.1', Dee .10, Knlted Slates
District Judge Viuiglian In n decision
hnndid down heio to-day holds that
Klllplnos ate Ineligible for naturaliza
tion, The court contends thev are nrltlim-
1 white, of African ilesvent nor nntlve
linl II
ATLANTA X K.W OKI.K M MK V'H.
Nnulhern Itsllwrsy, thru Irulns dally.
Dining and sleeping car strvlce, N, V, Uf
See. lit riftU Ave. dev.
AIKKV Al'til'tT HKV tl.l.K.
"Aiwunli SpeciHl," ilnlli, I uv M. hw
Iii(.iiiiiii, Mtaleiuom, fleoiilnB t'.rr.c
live Jan. 2d rompartmsnt rsr dally helws.n
Nsw roek and Augusts. .N. V ufflc. lit
Vlftb Ave Adv. "
IV.iiuo tn prevent tin wnr. The llu-
tcnti" ulllruis its united iiiiio.-c to
I (.lifeguard the llbettiea of the people uf
Kurnpe nnd tltiyx (icinviny's violation
of llelsiiin neutrality nnd the violation
of treaties which were made "Kcmp.s
of paper." The indictment of (ler
many Ih merciless. K.von the peace
proposal themselves, ale legiuilcd us
empty und Inslnceie.
Bernatnrff on the llert.
The news vv.i iccelved by I'li'Milent
Wll-oll .illil Secii'tniy l.aiP'tlig in si-
llence Count von H'i ni'turff however,)
Imnievlluti'ly summoned .ill his re.
I sources nnd diplomatic skill tn rave the i
peace pleus of lil' lloxcrninent fiom
their threatened fate. He charactnlied
the proposals as only what might be
necessarily mean a refusal to heed 1'iesi.
dent Wilson's rffoilH along ihe sumo
line. !t Is pointed out
The heller therefore is expieM.ed
openly lu (Iciin.in diplomatic elides mat
the elfoits of President Wilson will piove
the saving featnie of the Central Pun
ers' hope fur peace It Is staled that
Berlin has already taken up w th Mn
hassador Ceroid t' e question of con
fidentially submitting lieituiiuy'N terms
to the President Iu order that the I'nlted
States may step Into the breach and per
suade the Kntente to give the Central
I'oweri a mine considerate bearing,
It Is said that the Pies,pMt'w notes
will now be the rusts for an eudles
elialu of ontldential i oiiiniunlcii'lniis on
llle Ketiersl subject of ea e, ;lni that
lesults may be forthcoming In the none
ui distant future, even If they ai.
Cheeked now.
Tti unofficial opinion, which ".ill
