THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
18 PAGES
L'xxSlX, ARIZONA, ' SUNDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 31, 1916
18 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO 22G
rm
ARRIS 1 CMPIEII'S ACCESS M
il
EARS
B
i)
Entente Powers Reject Germany's
Peace Plan; See War Maneuver
SAYS REPLY SENT
NET.
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
PARIS, Doe. 30 In reply to the proffer of Germany
and her allies for a peace conference, the entente allies, in
a collective note, declare that they "refuse to consider a
proposal which is empty and insincere." The note was
handed to the American ambassador, "William Graves
Sharp, today, by Premier Briand, and was made public
simultaneously in London and Paris.
The entente allied governments insist that no peace
is possible so long- as they have not secured reparation for
violated rights and liberties and the free existence of small
states and have not brought about a settlement for the
future security of the world. The note declares that the
proposal of the central powers is not an offer of peace, but
a "war maneuver."' It is declared to be founded on "cal
culated misinterpretation of the character of the struggle
in the past, the present and the future.'' '
The note does not specifically outline the definite war
aims of any of the entente governments, except Belgium.
Before the war, it is pointed out, Belgium asked for noth
ing but to live in harmony with her neighbors. Assailed
in spite of the treaties guaranteeing her inviolability. Bel
gium, the note says, has taken up arms to defend her
independence and "her neutrality violated by Germany."
Belgium's aim, which is declared to be the only aim of
her king and government, is described as "the re-ostab-lishmentof
peace and justice. But they'only desire peace
which would assure to their country legitimate reparation,
guarantees and safeguards for the future."
The
note. Which is the ioint net .f
teigium, 1-ranee. Great Britain, Italy,
Japan, Montenegro. Portugal. Rumania,
.Russia and Serbia, declares that the
present strife was desired, provoked
and declared by Germany and Austria
Hungary and that Germany made no
effort to bring about a pacific solution
of the trouble between Serbia and
Austria-Hungary as aid Great Britain,
IVance and Russia.
A peace concluded upon the German
idea would be ouly to the advantage of
the central powers, says the note, while
disasters caused the war demand pen
alties, reparation and guarantees.
The German overtures are described
as a calculated attempt to influence the
future, course of the war and to end it
by ... imposing a German peace. The
overtures aiso are said to have the ef
fect of Intimidating neutral public
"pinion as iwell as to stiffen opposi
tion In the central powers, "worn out
ILLUSION ARY PROPOSAL
fRepubliean A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Dec. 30. The joint reply
of the entente allies to the German
pence proposal was issued today in
the form of ;:n official communica
tion giving the text of the note. The
reply characterizes the German pro
posal us "illusionary" declaring thai
"a mere suggestion, without a state
ment of terms, that negotiations
should be (pined is not an offer of
peace."
After analysing Germany's motives
in proposing peace negotiations the
note says:
"Fully conscious of the gravity of
this moment, but equally conscious
of its requirements, the allied gov
Mail Your Check Today
Republican's Annual Bargain Subscription
offer is open now. Save 40 per cent offer
good only once each year.
jsiyr ONE
7 Days
Every
The Republican is the only newspaper in
Arizona publishing seven days in the week
52 issues more than any other paper in
the state.
You are entitled to the best. Mail that $5.75
to the Republican today offer good only
once each year.
Sixth Annual Bargain
IT H THE
GOVERNMENTS
by economic pressure and crushed by
j the supreme effort which has been im-
pu.-eu upon ineir innauiiants.
"Finally." it is asserted, "these over
tures attempt to justify in advance to
the ee of the world, u new .series of
crimes submarine warfare, deporta
tions, forced labor and forced enlist
ment of the inhabitants against their
own countries and violations of neu
trality." The text of the note follows:
"The allied governments of Belgium.
France, Great Pritain. Italy. Japan.
Montenegro, Portugal. Rumania. Rus
sia and Serbia, united for the defense
of the liberty of their peoples and
faithful to engagements taken not to
lay down their arms separately, have
resolved to reply collectively to the
pretended propositions of peace which
(Continued on Page Two)
ernments, closely united to one an
'other and in perfect sympathy with
their peoples, refuse to consider a
I proposal which is empty and insin
j cere." '
j The note also declares:
"Once again the allies declare that
i no peace is possible so long as they
have not secured reparation lor vio
lated rights and liberties, the re". ig
nition of the principle of nationalities
ami the free existence of small
I states; so long as they have not
(brought about a settlement calculated
j to end once and for all forces which
have constituted a perpetual menace
to th" nations and to afford the only
effective guarantees for the future
security of the world."
YEAR
a Week
Morning
$C75
BELIEVE BASIS LAID
MAKING FOR PROGRESS
IN PLANS FOR PEACE
COPPER QUEEN CUTS
OFF OUTSIDE ORES
DOUGLAS. Ariz., Dec. 30. No
tices have been sent out by the
Topper Queen Mining company. It
was learned today, advising all
customers that the company will
refuse to smelt any ore except con
signments from those having con
tracts. The ruling, effective Mon
day, further specifies that no ores
in excess of contract agreements
will be accepted. Mining men said
the effect of the ruling would shut
off a large quantity of copper ore
from outside sources and it was
added that the Copper (Jueen com
pany intends to use its smelter, ex
cept for contract work, in smelting
its own ores.
LJ-
Rpubhcan A P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dee. f.O - -Increas
ing e idence that General Carranzo's
nands of Insurgents, coupied with the
;'ieajjKc-i mat tne nisi cni;-i not
accept the Atlantic City protocol has
Drought tin- Mexic.i'i sim.-.licn to a
st?te that is causing growing con
e-err?. - -
Officials admit that the condition-!
are embarrassing. Some hinn nimy
ffficeih are urging mat Pershing's
men be withdrawn as a military step
and regardless of conditions, hut it r
insisted mat so iar mere nas l, ''en
no cnnnge in the administration pol-
joint commission which drew the At-
1'imu v ny protocol n 111 mi i one
Yliejvbiv to discuss Citrranza's re
quest for modification ami to conside-
" n-nr any crisis is onereu ior ii'r
tber conferences with tie Mexican
commissioners. Charles Ihniglas. an
attorney for the C;irr-M?za govern -
ment, saw Counsellor Polk, of the
MVl". VIII .0... V i-
stood to have made a further . plea
lor witnorawai t me troops.
nre no longer attempting to conceal
their impatience over the Joint com
mission's failure to secure ratification
of art agreement and openly are nrs;
in? "that the altered conditions in
Mexico 'make, it imperative to bring
ttje 12,000 men now in Mexico to po-
:;mjuis on me iMiroer wncre trey
could be handled to better advant:.'!
if it becomes necessary.
Reporto to the state end war de
partments today supported unofficial
tdvices imiicating that Villa is rapid
ly gaining strength in northern Mex
ico that makes his suppression by
the Carranza army appear dour.rful.
At the same time- followers of Felix
Din aro siid to be making troubl-
in thb south while Man tel Pal&ez and
other reJel leaders are gaining
around in the central portions of the
republic.
The official advices indicated th-U
the Carranza forces in S.iltillo two
(Continued on Page Two)
SPAIN REPLIES TO
THE WILSON NOTE
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MADRID. Dec. 30. (Via Paris.)
The Spanish government has sent a
note In reply to President Wilson with
reference to peace, as follows:
"The Spanish government has re
ceived from the ambassador of the
United States the note sent by the
president of the L'nited States to the
belligerent nations and another com
munication in which it is said the
movement is opportune for action by
the government of the l'nited States.
"The Spanish government, in answer
to the initiative of the president of the
I'nited States, knowing the various Im
pressions produced; believe that the
action in which Spain is invited to
participate will be inefficacious, espe
cially as the central empires have ex
pressed their intention that the peace
conditions shall be accorded exclusively
among the belligerents
"Nevertheless, the Spanish govern
ment, huving in consideration the noble
desires of the American government,
W-hich are worthy of all peoples, is dis
posed, to associate itself with every
negotiation which has for its object
the facilitating of the humanitarian
work of ending the present war.
"Spain, however, will suspend all
action until the time when her efforts
and work in favor of peace can be
more useful and efficacious than at
the present time. Until then the Span
ish government believes that it would
be opportune to declare with regard
to an entente of the neutral powers
for the defense of their Interests, that
It is disposed now, as it was in the he-
INSURGENTS III
no HE
Hi RULE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON. Dec. 3D. There
were no official expressions here of the
views of President Wilson and the ad
ministration on the entente reply to the
German peace proposals, for the dual
reason that the I'nited States is act
ing only as an Intermediary between
the, belligerents and because a policy
of'silence ha been adopted during
this stago of the peace negotiations.
The unofficial opinion, which prob
ably was a reflection of the official
hope for progress toward peace, was
that some means for a further ex
change between the warring powers
would be found and that even if the
present negotiations fail a basis has
lieen laid which it was hoped would
make for progress in the final analysis.
First in formal comment by one offi
cial who had had a chance to study
carefully an official forecast and who
checked against it the full press text,
was that the allies had responded very
much as expected; that they had
played their strongest cards for moral
support among their own people and
in neutral countries, and that while
they had made it hard for Germany
to reply without decidedly changing
her tone, they had still left the door
open for another advance.
Official Washington, however, was
deeply- jierplexed as to the future and
admitted that it probably depended
on the international conditions and
confidence of the two warring groups,
and secondly on how far President
Wilson would decide to push his own
peace efforts. On the whole, first
comment indicated that hopes of an
early peace may have diminished, but
not disappeared.
After reading the unofficial text of
the note. Count von P.ernstorff, the
German ambassador, authorized the
following Hatement:
"President WUson having suggested
the finding of a method of stating
terms I do toil rink tjlat thin note will
n? answered Jy my tiovernmeht until
after the entente allies have replied
to the president's suggestion; stating,
if they so desire, the modus they pro
pose." The German embassy was outwardly
not favorably impressed with the tenor
of the entente note. However, the
declaration that "A mere suggestion
without a statement or terms, that ne
gotiations should be opened is not an
offer of peace," was taken to contain
a veiled invitation to give terms.
The next steps by the American gov
ernment will not be determined until
the entente reply to President Wilson's
note is received. It is exacted within
a few days. While it is expected to
follow within a general way the tone
of the note received today, officials
believe it will make clear whether any
good will be accomplished by further
efforts at present on the part of Pres
ident Wilson.
The entente reply was not read by
the president tonight. Through offi
cial dispatches from abroad he knew of
its general tenor, but did not tell even
bis closest advisers what he thought
of it.
German embassy officials pointed
out that sine the first peace offer was
made by the central powers and it was
indicated that the entente demanded
(Continued on rase Ten)
"9
NO REPLY TO MR.
WILSON FOR SOME TIME I
PARIS, Pec. 30. It is expected
f.ome days will elapse before the
entente powers will make public
their reply to the suggestions of
President Wilson in favor of the
re-establishment of peace.
. Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, Dec. 30. The Trench for
eign offite tonight made ' public the
Identical rotes delivered by the
Swedish, Norwegian and Danish min
isters, supporting the initiative to
ward peace taken by President. Wil
son. ' The tiotcs express sympathy of
the Scandinavian countries for all
efforts toward the ending of the war
and assert th? hope that the presi
dent will obtain a result worthy of
the spirit which inspired his note to
the belligerents. The note follows:
"It m with the greatest interest
that the government of the king
learned of the' propositions made by
the president of the L'nited States in
order to facilitate measures tending
to the establishment of a durable
oeace. While remaining desirous of
avoiding all interference which miht
hurt legitimate susceptibilities, the
government of the kin? thinks h-
would be wanting In duty toward his
people and toward all humanity if
ho did not express the most profound
sympathy for all efforts which could
contribute to puttins an end to the
progressive accumulation of suffer
ings and moral and material bosses;
it chsrishe, therefore the hope that
the Initiative' of President Wilson will
secure a iveult worthy of the lofty
spirit which inspired it."
ginning of the war, to Commence ne
gotiations Which might lead to an ac
cord capable of uniting the belligerent
powers."
SCANQI
NOTE MADE PUBLIC
RETIRING EXECUTIVE HAS
HIMSELF SWORN I; SAYS
HE WILL NOT QUIT MONDAY
. The dictatorship that George W. P. Hunt has been accused by bitter opponents
of setting up in Arizona during the past five years, appeared to take on form of reality
yesterday, when he announced:
That he had taken an oath of office as governor of Arizona for the ensuing two
years,
That he had prepared a message to the legislature, and, in effect,
That he would retain possession of his office in the state house on Monday,
when Tom Campbell, who yesterday also t ook his oath of office, will present himself
as the new governor.
There are two oaths, and but one certificate of election. There will be two
messages to the legislature, when but one c an govern its actions. There are two indi
viduals, claiming the office which but one can fill. Monday will be a regular day.
The announcement that Hunt had sworn in before E. J. Trippel, an attache of
the state land commission, and a notary public, was first made to James H. McClin
tock, chairman of the Maricopa county ce ntral committee, and to Chairman Fred W.
Smith of Coconino, by Hunt, himself. McClintoek and Smith had called in behalf of
the republican committee on inauguration to inquire Hunt's plans for Monday.
Late last night it van announced
that papers in a suit to oust Hunt from
the office of the governor of Arizona
would be filed with Clerk Clay I". Leon
ard of the state supreme court on Mon
day. The fact that Monday is a legal
holiday will not prevent the filing of
the papers, it is said.
That Hunt has made a "fool move"
Is the opinion of all but his most par
tisan friends. He has prejudiced his
chances of remaining a hold-over gov
ernor in favor of an extremely thin,
emaciated chance that he may win the
contest. He made this move with less
than half the ballots inspected, with
nothing except ap unfinished action in
equity, touching the possession of the
office. .and with as ucVchunce that
the inspection of the balance of the
votes will disclose Camplell leading as
himself.
Within a short time after the news
was spread about the city that both
Campbell anil Hunt had filed oaths,
the citizens divided themselves into
three armies. One proceeded to emit
many words in justification of the ac
tion of Hunt. Another claimed that
Campbell would benefit by the appar
ently senseless abrogation of the will
of the people by Hunt, and the third
spent its time wondering what would
take place on Monday.
Accusations flew thick and fast. U
was said that Hunt would barricade
the capitol and permit the entrance of
Campbell only after the last drop of
blood had been shed. In support of
this theory, it was said that the gov
ernor had caused all the doors and
locks to be inspected.
Hints of fracas and riots were whis
pered about. It was said that Campbell
would use a ladder to attain that cov
eted elevation from, which the govern
ors 'of Arizona speak their inauguril
addresses. As a matter of fact. State
Chairman Tommy Maddock "spotted"
a ladder in a back parlor near the state
house.
Mandamus to Be Sought
A mandamus action will be sought by
Chief Counsel K. K. Sloan for the
Campbell forces, to compel Hunt to de
liver over the paraphernalia of office
the legal papers, etc. Judge Sloan ex-
Two Claimants Swear In
As Governor of Arizona
In the presence of a score of wit
nesses, Thomas K. Campbell took the
formal oath of office as governor of
Arizona at eleven o'clock yesterday
morning.
The oath was administered by Judge
rVunk Lyman, in whose chambers the
impressive ceremony was held.
Judge Lyman was selected by the
republican state committee for the ad
ministration, of the oath for the reason
that Judge Stanford and the justices of
the supreme court will be called upon
in the course of the contest to pass
upon the rights of Mr. Campbell and
Governor Hunt.
With his head proudly erect and his
right hand raised, the first republican
elected to the highest office in the
state, stood before the first superior
judge to administer the oath.
"Do you. Thomas K. Campbell sol
emnly vear that you will support the
Constitution of the I'nited States and
the constitution and the laws of the
State of Arizona: and that yju will
true faith and allegiance bear to the
same, and defend them against all en
emies whatsoever, and that you will
faithfully and impartially discharge
'the duties, of the office of Governor of
Arizona to the best of your ability, so
help you God?'" asked Judge Lyman.
"I do," earnestly responded Mr.
Campbell.
Judge Sloan was the first to offer his
congratulations to the governor and
his example was whole heartedly fol
lowed by the few lawyers and news
papermen present.
Although it had been rumored that
the governor elect would take his oath
of office it was not understood where
the ceremony would be held. It was
not until yesterday morning in fact,
that Thomas' Maddux, chairman of the
republican state central committee
and upon his acceptance of the honor,
Mr. Campbell was notified.
I plained that it is not really a man
, damus, as it is 4 statutory action and
that it wiu be asKea tor snoniy. in
conformity with a provision of the re
cent stipulation of K. S. Ives, counsel
for Hunt.
Hut what other provisions for oust
ing Hunt, on the expiration of his term,
hae been made, were not disclosed by
the republicans yesterday. A guarded
reference was made to certain sections
of the penal code, providing for the
punishment of "one who intrudes him
self into any public office to which he
1 1
I
THE LAW
-r
The Revijed Ststures of 1'I13, I
Penal Code, state that ;
"Par. 7S: Every x;rson who wil- i
fully and knowingly intrudes him- i
self into any public office to which
he has not been eiected or ap- j
pointed, and every person who, i
having been an executive officer,
wilfully exercises any of the func- i
tions of his office .ifter his term i
has expired, and a successor has !
been elected or appointed and has I
qualified, is guilty 'of a misde- I
meanor. I
"Par. 71': Kvery of.'icer whose of- j
fice is abolished by law. or who. '
after the expiration of the time
for which he may be appointed or I
elected, or after he l as resigned or j
been legally removed from office.
wilfully and unlawfully withholds i
or detains from his successor, or j
other person entitled thereto, the !
records, papers, documents or other
writings appertaining or belonging
to his office, or mutilates, destroys
or takes away the same, or wilfully
and unlawfully withholds or de
tains from his successor, or other
person entitled thereto, any money
or property in his custody as such I
officer, is punishable by imprison- I
ment in the state prison for not I
less than one nor more than ten I
years."
-
He arrived at the courthouse short
ly before the appointed hour, accom
panied by Judge Richard K. Sloan and
Ceorge Purdy Billiard. They passed
through the corridors, where men were
passing back and forth from the var
ious rooms where the ballots were be
ing insiiected. Mr. Campbell in his
usual gracious manner, smiled a greet
ing to them all. Unconscious of the
notable event about to take place, they
merely replied in the same spirit and
did not follow the distinguished arrival
into the judge's chambers,
asked Judge Lyman if he would act
"This is the day on w hich to take the
Hunt Tries Keys to His
Office Doors and Smiles
Th:tt Governor Hunt does not in
tend to give up' possession of the
ship of state without a fight, and a
bitter one at that, was demonstrated
yesterday when he was seen fitting
keys to the locks which close, the
massive doors leading from . the hall
on the second floor of the state house
to the balcony. Prora this balcony,
Governor-elect Thymas K. Campbell
had planned to deliver his inaugural
address tomorrow.
Shortly before noon yesterday, the
governor appeared in the hallway,
with a handful of keys- He preceded
to the doors -in question and fumbled
around with the locks for some tint?.
Finally he found a key whijh fitted
the lock, closed the door with a snap,
locked it! tight, a.nd wert back to
his office with a satisfied smile.
has not been elected or appointed."
and of "every officer who, after the
expiration of the time for which he
may be appointed or elected, wilfully
and unlawfully withholds or retains
from his successor or other person en
titled thereto, the records, papers, doc
uments or other writings appertaining
or belonging to his office."
Monday is a legal holiday. Can a
police court warrant be procured on.
New Year's'.' Could it be served? The
"question" cf the governorship is de
veloping so rapidly these days that it
is chiefly by the use of questions that
its new phases are transmitted to the
public.
An attempt was made yesterday to
get the Huot viewpoint by a Republi
can reporter.
Hunt Say He's Right
"Mr. Hunt do you intend to keep
your office after the first of the
year?" v
"1 most certainly .intend to" was
the reply. He continued in a rather
choleric vein to this effect.
"Why shouldn't I keep it? I am at
present S5 votes ahead in the re
count, I am elected and I intend to
stay here."
"Are you going to send a message
to the legislature?'"
"I most certainly am" this last
reply came very emphatically, and he
plainly showed that he had been
roused. ' , m
sir. Hunt then went on to explain
that a committee from the republican
headquarters had been to see, him,
to ask if he cared to take part in
, the inaugun.l ceremonies for Oover-
that he did not care to be present
as he felt that no successor had been
elected to take his office.
"I am perfectly willing to leave this
whole matter tip to the courts" said
the governor. "If the contest shows
that Mr. Campbell has been elected,
I will be perfectly willing to be pres
ent. "They have charged," continued the
ex-governor "that I have placsed my-
(Continued on Page Two)
oath," said Judge Sloan. "If conven
ient, we would like you to adminis
ter it."
Upon Judge Lyman's response, Mr.
Campbell assumed the duties and re
sponsibilities of the highest offering in
the gift of tie people.
Out at thi state house, it was dif
ferent. Trippel wandered into the
gubernatorial office, where Mr. Hunt
asked him if he would administer an
oath. The notary signified his will
ingness, and Mr. Hunt, with only his
secretary and a few attaches present,
duplicated the oath he subscribed to
two years ago.
Kuene Says Nix
aretaker Jim Keene, who has charge
of the state house, was asked yes
terday why the doors were locked, it
being customary to leay them open
all the time. Keene stated that h-;
had had ordurs to keep them locked.
When asked who had given him or
ders to that effect he said "None of
your business."
It was stated in one of the clown
stairs offices that for the past few
mornings it had been nottced that all
the windows in the office were tightly
locked each morning, when the force
camn on duty. This Is rather unus
ual, as it has been the habit to leave
them unlocked each night, there be
ing a night watchman on duty. It
is said that this is another Hunt ef .
fort to keep Campbell's friends from
taking forcible possession of the gov
ernor's office.
