DAILY EDITION
XOU VII., No. 7..
V
o-
iEi(iEilBie
EAGLE MINE TO PROCEED
Vall Street RHsg Jcsrd Tclb cf Elergizg cf PresSca
Peak Property With the Mason Valley Esg Co, asd
. cf tie Cosssescersect of Active Work Tbt Will Meai
Cczpletica ol Railroad to the Raise Frca Takiha
Judge Joha Twnhjr, head of tha Ann
ha reoratijr roUumed from Um awl, waa la Grant Pass Saturday apoa
bnslaeea coaaootad wilt tlia Interval of Um Una bora. , bUereettng' news
hroaahl hare by Judge Twohy mm regarding lh development work whfc-h
Uw new owor uf lb Urry Kagle mine and anHUled propcrtUee, know
ttetler m Uit FarrUh utkttm. In tha lreelon peak district, 88 mllea fraa
Taallma, row haw la prog row and la roalempUiUoa.
' Tha Fairish (Orey Ragle) mines were Ukea over bjf W, U. Thompson,
' who earn to ttraat I'm last summer, and aow form pan of the bold
lags of the .Maeoa -Valley Mining company, which liaa long operated la
Maatia Valley, Nevada, where Die Thoaipam ameltera are located. Cow,
Maing the margar of tho propertle here with the Nevada properties, the
Wall Street Journal, t copy uf which waa brought here bjr Judge Twohy,
ruatalaa the following significant artktoi ' "
"With the acquisition of the Orey several year year ago and estimated
Eagle mine in northern California,
the JHaaon Valley Mines Co. taket on
a new lease of life. Tha Muon Val
ley Co. has purobaaed lb Orey
Eagle mine for 144,150 aharea' of
Work of the former company. Of j
tha total capital atock of ll.&OO.OPO.
divided Into 500,000 abarea, par
' "ltf 5 each, there are now 1ju?J
anfttrntatandlng 158,750 rerrvi,.th
Mt.Siu shares authorltH for the
Cnj Kaale jiurcha nn1 Stiu.HOO
aharea which have been aold at 15
a abar for working capital and con
alructlon purpose.
'The merger of the t properties
(!vri the combined con'n (he G y
Eagle mine, which conlitt of 14 pat
nld claim covering about 356
acre and the Nevada propertle In
cluding the Tbompaon imeltcr and
tba Maaon Valley mine
'Maaon Valley will begin buslneit
with 11,300,000 caah In tba treasury, may be made to tba Tbompaon amelt
"H. C. Krumb, engineer, made an jar at Maaon Valley on completion of
ajxanilnatlon of tha Orey Eagle mine the railroad to tha Orey Bagla mine."
riUHONKKB AND Ol'NH r
TAKKX IN WAMiAfHIA
Vienna, Dec. 30. Capture of 800
prisoners, six gun and 16 machine
Vina waa reported In today' official
fi I
ORY OFTOM RILEAVHOVAS
LOST III 1 SHOW FOR 110 HOURS
(
Don Luce, who apent the Christ-
holiday aaaaoa with friend and
relative at Agne, on tha lower
Rogue, returned yeatarday with a
tarty of four other. These were C.
A. Beagle, a mine owner of Agne,
Mailcarrler Commodore Fleming, S.
T. Hopklna of Medford, and W. 8.
MoCulatlon. Thla la the flnt party
to aoma over the Weat Fork-Marlal
trail alnce the heavy anow atorm,
They left Marlal at aeven o'olook
Vriday morning, reaching West ForK
at three the next morning, the trip
taking 10 hour to cover the 18 mile
f trail.
' They started with two mules, but
when they neared the top of the
4vlde. the mow became ao deep that
was ImnoMlWe to take the mules
further. A place waa dug out and
the animal len unui inex uoum m.
UK en back to Mnrlal. The Mti y
then continued on foot, two of the
pnrty "being nearly exniHtid whn
the deatlnatlon was reached. Tha
oft anow, which waa from three to
alx feet la depth, hindered travel and
ametropia of the party wnro.eUnhtly
Iroxen, They reached trie caqm ot
SFrank logliam, a' well known trap-
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Paw
of Twohjr llracber eompaay,
450,000 tona of ore contenting 4.44
copper and It gold per (on, aa eil
aa large quantltlea of lower grade
ore. . ,
"O. R. Wbltaker of Denver alao
made and examination. HI report
waa eluitlarto that of Henry Krumb,
although be added 600,000 tona of
ore containing a Utile over 1 cop
per, a total of 1,100,000 tona con
taining aa average of t.74 copper
and 70c gold per ton. Both Erf
gtneera Krumb and Wbltaker 'said
that proapecta of developing a much
larger lonnage were good.
"Active development work will be
Matted thla winter and at tha aame
time a decision aa to the ibeat meth
od of treating tha ore wll ba reach
ed. Preliminary treatment 'by the oil
flotation proce Indicate that good
result can be obtained.
"It I. not unlikely that at leaat
during development atagea, ahlpmenU
statement aa the booty of Thursday's
fighting In Wallachla and tha moun
tains westward of Focaanl. Steady
repulse of the enemy north, north
east and northwest of Rlmnlcu-ffarat
waa asserted.
min uj
pen where they obtained food and
ware rested, They then, left tor thla
city.
Mr. Lucae atatea that Tom Rllea
had arrived at the home of hla par
enta at Agness before he left. Rllea
waa In bad condition from exposure
and from hla long taat, but waa gain'
Ing atrength and will loon be all
right again. When Rllea left Weat
Fork on Friday morning of laat week
ha expected to make hla way over
the trail In a few hours. He left
without breakfast and carried no
lunch with htm. On arriving at the
top of the divide, nine mile from
West Fork, the atorm was blowing
lo badly that he could not proceed
. aauklnat M. Tn Atlamntlnv tit take
th Uck trt, he foun(, tha n
,rMk h( bMn my oWterated
bjp th flUnf inj)W Md he WM no,
. ..,., ,0 ..,.. to w. y.rh. .
therefore went down into a canyon
way from the most severe of the
atorm, and built a tire. Here he
stayed for two daya, keeping hla tire
going. On Sunday he returned to
. U), tralli ,hmklng he could make
hi wjy outi WM itm UB,Mt t0
......
(Continued op Page 6)
O RANTS PAM, JOSEPHINE COUSTV, OREGON, SUNDAY, DECEMBER SI,
CHARLES I DECORATING A SO LIVER
3M ' . "Alt-1 iZ;
r-,.
Phots by American Prent AnoclaUoo.
New emtieror of Aitiirla plnuiiig a
aoldtet.
1 1 tz.&'JHl
KAISER'S PEACE PROPOSAL!
DECLINED BY THE
Ectecte Nations Refuse to Enter kto Peace Ncgctiaticns
With Central Powers Without Feller Details Ccscerczj
Ccsditions, and Charge That Gerciaa Proffer Is Mere
like War Measure Thaa Peace Prcpssitisn
Pari. Dec, SO. The allies today
formally refused to enter peace ne
gotiation with Oermany without
knowing what conditioaa the Ten
tonic powera have to propose.
The note ot the alllaa replying to
Oermany, as annonnoad thla evening.
charges that the German proffer ap
pears more like a war measure than
a peace proposition.
The, allies exhibited their resent
of the effort of Oermany to place up
on them reinonalblllty forth war
Tha alllea, In, turn, charged ,the
central powera were directly respon
sible for the war and refusal to en
ter negotiation offered by France,
England and Russia to prevent it.
All Allied Nations Sign
The note, algned by all the entente
powera, declared tne nations were
lust as strong In their attachment
tor peace aa In 1114, but added:
"After tha violation (by the cen
tral power) and their engagement
In war, they cannot end the war at
Germany' auggeatlon, without any
condltlona with which to open ne
gotiation.
The German proposal ia not an
offer of peace. The proportion ap
pear more like a war maneuver.
In reoltlng argument designed to
place the blame for the war on the
central powera, the alllea referred to
Germany aa "tha empire which pro
claimed that treatlea were acrapa of
paper." '
; Tha note declared the ruin pro
voked by the war and all acts agalnat
the rtghta of both belligerent and
neutral call for reparation from the
central powera.
The peace proposal waa dharacter-
lird at an attempt to bring about
what would he a German-made peace.
Text of the Reply
The not handed to the diplomat
at 7 o'clock thla evening, aald
'The allied government ot Bet-
Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
'
military nsedal for bravery on one at ab
4
glum, Franca, 'England, Italy, Japan,
Montenegro, Portugal, Russia, Rou
ts anla and Serbia, united in the de
fense of the liberty ot their people
1a true engagements, will not sep
arately lay down their arm and
have decided collectively . to answer
the ao-called peace proposals.
"First ot all, the alllea protest
against the enemy'a assertion, at
tempting to throw on the allies re
sponsibility tor tha war. -
"Alao tha proclamation ot the cen
tral powera claiming victory.
"Both assertions are untrue. ; 1
"For thirty montha tha allies have
sustained the war which they did tha
utmost to prevent and they have
ahowed by their acta their attachment
for peaoe.
Thla attachment la Just a strong
today a In 1514.
Mast Katow Peace Condi tkna
"After the violation (by the cen
tral powera) and their engagement
In tha war they (the alllea) cannot
end the war at Oermany'a auggeatlon
without any condition with which to
open negotiation." "
"Tha Oerman propoaal I not an
offer of peace. The proposition ap
pear more like a war maneuver."
"Aa tar aa tha paat I concerned,
the (Oerman) note .'Ignores fact,
datea and figure ahowlng that Oer
many wanted, provoked and declared
the war. . ,
1,'At The Hague, R waa the Ger
man delegation that refused tha dla
armament propoaal." In .July, 1014,
it wa Autrla that declared war on
Serbia. The central powera refused
all attempt to atop the conflict, the
refuaed England' offer for a eon
ference; France'a offer tor an Inter-
4 national oommlaalon, and tha caar'a
arbitration' propoaal.
'nulsliim wa invaded bv the em
"(Contlnuad en Page 4
"I
ltl
Trccps 0t c Rti'llt, ?i CLTra'f hz
ad l!eet PricticjJly All el tij Cc;!:cs hzi Ij
Head cf Profidsd GcTcrct J
Washington, Dec. 10. An entirely
new policy , toward Mexico li virtu
ally completed, and under eonaider-J
atlon by President Wllaon. Accord
Ing to the most authoritative eoureea,
thla proposed new plan will take the
following courte:
General Pershing's force now la
northern 'Mexico, will be ordered
within tba Aordar. V?'-. 1.Y ?
Thereafter the Mexican-American
commissionera will reopen negotia
tions to clear pp anch pending qaea
ttons aa border patrol, protection of
American lives and property In Met-
Ico and poesrMe financial assistance
rteeogaKloa of Carraaaa ted Mexico City poet Diplomatic ne
Ambaasador Fletcher will be aent"! gotiatlona could then be carried out
to Mexico City and Carraasa's rep-
reeentatlve hero will be formally
recognised try thla government
These . propositions, according t3
all sign thia afternoon, will ba sub-;
mttted to the AmericanOfexicaa com-
mission who H meet Tuesday.
The first two auggeationa ana Car-
ransa's. . J ,
Carrania bolde that for him to
come to aay terms with the United
States wade tatted tteter troopa-rW
main on Mexican soil would be con
strued by this country as having heen
forced oa him; . .
Judge Charles A. " Douglas, legal
repreaentativa of Oarransa here, to
day conferred with government of
ficials on the possibility of voluntary
withdrawal ot Pershing's troops. Im
mediately afterward Secretary Baker
conferred with Secretary Lane, who
last night conferred at length with
President Wilson on the Mexican
situation. The upshot of these con
ferences and tevelopmenta. of .the
paat few daya. it la stated, led the
president to believe that unless he'
Immediately adopta a new policy ot
more confidence and leaa confer
ence," aa had been suggested there
would only be one other way out
and that would foe Intervention.
.. IaterveaOoa Last Tnoaght
Am to Intervention, tt I known, pos
itively the president would go to the
GREAT IHTEREST IN EUROPE III REPLY1
BY ALLIES TO GERra PEACE PROFFER
London. Dec. SO. Not! only will
the alllea' anawer to Germany' peace
proffer clearly aet forth the prin
ciple tor which the entente natlona
are fighting, but it will contain a
general outline ot the term on which
England and her alllea are willing to
negotiate, It waa confidently expect
ed her today.
The fact that the note would list
terms to be demanded of Germany
waa expected aa a result of an awak
enlng within the laat few daya in Eng
land to the fact that the German
propoganda in. neutral nations must
be effectively answered
press ana puoiio aim nnuea to -
day In the belief that the test poo-
sibla answer would he comprehensive
r-afflrmatlon ot th alllea' alms, and
a atatement or what the alllea ra-;marilei the Mn & tht Oghtlng
gard'aa necessary concession from wlth tho statement 'The Somm
their enemies aa a basis for even con- ty, baa. placed, beyond a doubt
sldering talk of peac. 'Oermany'a ability ot th alllea to gala thoe
reply to tho American peace note. ' objecta'v referring to object tor
It waa pointed out here, failed toiWBk)i, th, mtt mrt n,htlng. That
meet th principal requeat of Pre- Germany tMt out her peac feeler
ideat Wilson' appeal tor a Mating btttCMif ,D- naUaed tin ftemm.
poaasble peaoe term. .
Meanwhile. Europe' Inttrort Wt
whole rcMBn its.
moat extreme limit before area con
sidering such a step. One raaaoai for
thia attitude la hi knowledga of
what South Americans think of is
tervanUon. . ;
la thla connection, one of the moat
prominent South American dtplo
mata in Waehlngtoa told tha United
Prase today: "Intervention and pae
Amcrieanlgm cannot be uttered la
the name breath." " :- . ". . v, ) . ' f
South American diplomatic rep
resentatives today pointed out that
thla government might make a Ions
step toward-real progress If it sent
Ambaasador netcher to hla accredit
along "regular liaea," they said. " ;
Certain government offldala are
known to aympatBlsa with General
Carratua'a appeal for withdrawal of
the troope without a treaty or a pra-
tocol. A high state department of-"
J&cial la known to have counselled
Ieucfc a move and at leaat one mem-
tjftet of tha house foreign affair coni-
mUtee, in touch with tha altnatloa.
believes that course Is the best. From
amilitary standpoint, army men coav
ear ta tha idea, earing there had nwt
been for some time any strata gte
reason tor keeping Pershing In Mex
ico. ;''..'-.--." ; ; ;
FTLft ANn-TRlSr SUIT i t
- AGAINST ACTO HORN MAKERS
J
Washington. Dec SO. The depart
ment of Justice today announced til
ing of a suit at Newark, N. J., under
the anti-trust lawa agalnat tha Lov-ell-McConnell
Manufacturing Com
pany, manntactarera of Klaxon auto
mobile horns, ; ' i
VMM IS REPORTED
ON THE VERDCN FRONT
Paris, Dec. SO. 8 access of ' a
French raiding party against Ger
man positions weat ot Tahnre wa
announced in today official state
ment At Verdua it was reported
tha front waa calm. . t !
ared In Paris, where the note I to.
be leaned. Tha entire entente nrssa
maif sated intense reailaaUoa of tho
Importance ot the document, j
The alUea' note has boea complete
ed. Ruaala'a draft waa probably In,
Pari today. .with that ot all ttiev.
other entente powera. The message,
will go forward through Amrelcaa.
Swiss and Spanish diplomatic ageata,
in Paris, within the next few davsk
tnd Its text will be made publlo from.
Paris before next Wednesday. Ther.
waa on report In London today that,
the public might be Informed of tho
content ot th note thla afternoon.
T m England much algnlftcane lot
connection with Germany1 plea for
t. rL...i ui m.
' Yiew 0f n Somm battle. Ralg annt-
" v " fvntmua on . Fag i .;
