NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 223
ituenmg
FINANCIAL EDITION
BMiger
MIGHT
PHILADBIiPHIA, WJ3DN32SDAY, MAT 81, 1010.
CoMmanr, 1010, tt ins Polio Lcdari Com n Mr,
PRICE OKJB OJENTT
MEXICAN NOTE
ON EVACUATION
THREATENS U.S.
i f
tfarranza Doubts Sincerity
of America in New
Demand
&SKS WHY INVASION
fTTnfi&ndI.v Act" Unless Pur-
i't .nao To P.vnlninnrl rvv
Army Leaves
WASHINGTON, May. 31. General Cnr-
raiwa, Inia noto delivered to tho Stato Do-
nartment today by Ambassador Arrcaonao,
rtduested withdrawal of the American
i' forces as an "ovldoneo of good faith" on
the part of' tho united states Uovernmcnt.
Unless tho United States withdraws Its
troops from Mexican soil, or at least ex
nlatns their present purposo In Mexico and
tWgon for their remaining, In vlow of their
nreaent "Idleness," tno uarranza uovcrn-
ment will consider their furthor presenco
ft- Ih'cre an unfriendly act, tho noto says.
Pending nucn wimarawai uurrumu muu
t definite explanation of tho reasons for
keeping tho troops In Mexico, and their
present purpose In Mexico.
ADMITS FALSEHOOD.
. Arredondo admitted that the noto was
kViouht to Washington by Manuel Mendcz,
t-wha arrived hero Monday. Tho AmbasBa-
E. dor-deslgnato explained his denial yester
day of tlrnl tact uy saying inai mo noto
irtfl.of sucji a character that ho wanted to
wire for further instructions beforo pro
jentmg tho noto.
; '"The noto demands a dctlnlto explanation
t.t the nurnoso of the United States In keep
ing Its troops In Mexico," ho said. "Gen
till Carranzn says: 'In my Judgment thcro
f r(0 rdason for their being there.' Cor
Krihxa points- out that President "Wilson has
fepeateuly declared in ms puonc utterances
Via III lw UllJtUlllUllU buiicaiiuiiuciiLU Willi
Mexico that ho does not dcslro war with
Mexico, but that the Wilson administration
i by its delay in rcrusing to witnaraw tno
ITvupa iiua i cuu j buiiuuuiiiiGu iui jjiuivma'
tlocs or rrionusmp.
DOUBTS U. S. SINCERITY.
"General Cnrrnnza says further that If
the United States Government's assurances
Cf friendship for tho Mexican pcoplo aro
llncere the 'American troops will bo with
drawn at once. He says that tho nttltude
of this (American) Government and the
course It Is now pursuing leaves room for
lusplclon as to Ita'real Intentions.
There (n a. lemrthtV discussion ns tn thn
,'AJ- . .,. .... 1....1. ... . A
r HIM 1DUL 1U.MB UJJUI1 IIUU1 uuvurjimvillH IU
patrol tho border ana places blame for
the recent raids srjunrelyr upon the United
States Goyernmenti Ho says the matter of
patrolling tho frontier Is the duty of both
the Mexican and the United States iGovern-
-ments, but that .the troops should remain,
On uieir respective icrruuriBu. une or tne
glaring faults of the present patrolling sys
tetrf IS tho leaving unprotected of such places
ss Glenn Springs, This incident Is pointed
out In tho noto ns an Illustration of tho
gfi failure of tho methods now being pursued.
Kf The Glenn Springs raid was made possible-
.by tho failure of tho United States troops
to be on the frontier within Amorlcan territory.
jk "General Carranza maltes It plain that ho
ficsrs lurtuer invasion as long as me troops
remain l.i Mexico."
. Arredondo was at the Stato Department
but a few minutes. The note was in Span-
E. ,lt and work of translating If was begun
.'Immediately.
K The note is declared to be firmer in tons
m'Un any previously sent by the Constitu
tionalist First Chief. Tho United States Is
asked. It Is understood, to set a date in the
Immediate futurd when the American
forces, will bo withdrawn.
Officials at tho War and State Depart
ments believe iho delivery of tho note brings
ine uexican situation to a neaa. ino at
tempt is made to disguise tho belief that
Carranza intends by a Bhow of forco to
mk6 )he United States answer his noto Im
mediately. Officials sav that tho massing
ot-so 'many, troops In -northern Mexico can
mean only mat uarranza is uoiermineu mui
the' American troops must get out.
t. MAX. -EiVAliUAl-Ui.
What answer wll bo made to Carranza's
demand Is problematical, officials say,
TVfille it has been stated right along that
the American troops will not be withdrawn
la the face of Mexican demands, it was
pointed out today that the way has been
paved for gradual evacuation.
The killing of Cervantes. Villa's 'chief
lieutenant, and the dispersing of his band,
It .was declared, will make tt easy to say
that the bandit bands have been broken up
and thnt ftiA niimnu rt hm avttullllnii Ytnu
& h.-"-:""':r'A"" -"- --
Counselor Polk stated he had been ad
vised that thft nntn "ivnn rnt nn iitllmnhtm
btmt; a continuance of the discussion for the
i Withdrawal of the American forces."
It As soon as the note, which Is a lengthy
t!l(. Is trann!sitnrt If will ha snt tn thn
feWhlte House for the consideration of Presl-
Int Wilson.
CONSULS M'ARN MEXICANS
OF ATTACK BY AMERICANS
Till PASO. Tvr.. Mnv S1 n.n.rnl ITuns-
t,oa has directed a thorough investigation of
Ttport mat Mexican Consuls north or me
Continued on Fare Six, Column Two
r THE WEATHER
. Not many days ago wo advocated bal
loting for weatherman. We do not know
m la elected er-r, or rather, how he at-
lIUS the DOtnn nf niAlnrnlne'li-iil npnirnrai-
I Viator generalissimo at present; but again
"ay mere sqrey mus be a better way.
votjng for delegates, to the National
weather Convention would not only give
'Very native-born rlHron rnl!.nnlllnr nr
K COUPOnllnnfrp. nn nnnrtunllv tn nrodlitt
W leather forhlfl pmintw hut It wnitM or.,1.
Kraore genuine interest among the millions
K iAirmrs an d0L h8 impending gather.
K 5LBt Chlcasp nd St, LmIb. It would
m 8I?X,lut atl honest vote, too,
K tM for croDs!
FORECAST
! .QKfhfaMphia and vicinity Fair
l WRiflfA and Thursday; slightly cooler
i wnffftt; moderate northerly winds.
F . . jiOST AND OtTNP
wLVtS.?"1. NP CHAIN Lojt be-
?"MU llniirnnnt anil tklln rn. .. OI..1. KA.
Ilfhi TVur' May" 28. la movin treat
SatibS USSi0? nUBf PtlKrd bo
i WiinJi .1U f9 "turn M Jinhthl.
t'lamlCti Ad m I
REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEEMEN ATTEND CAUCUS
IHHIiiHttbBsiiiiiBHiiiHiBiHliiiBKHnHiiBSanfiBifln '
IRISH "TRUCE"
ARRANGED BY
LLOYD-GEORGE
Parliament for All Ireland
but Ulster, Glasgow
Herald Says
PEACE MAY BE LASTING
GLASGOW, May 31.
A truco which may develop into per
manent peace has been arranged between
tho political factions In Ireland, says tho
Herald. Much credit for tho settlement of
tho troublesomo Irish question goes to
David Lloyd-George, tho mediator.-
An Irish parliament is to bo established,
tho Herald says, but Ulster Province or tho
greater part of It will bo excluded.
The leaders of the Irish Nationalists and
the Ulster Unionists met for tho flrat time
on Tuesday, when tho chief principles In
dlsputo wcro discussed, After a humorous
discussion tho Irish Nationalists and Ulster
men cordially shook hands across tho table.
When Home Rule goes into effect many,
If not all, of tho counties In Ulster will tako
advantage of tho feature of tho law a).
lowing them to exclude themselves by pop
ular vote.
Phlladolphlans who have been foremost In
supplying tho Nationalist cause with funds
and moral support In the fight for homo rule
refused to commit themselves on the pros
pects "bf a truce betwen their colleagues
across tho bca and tho unionists.
"I'd rather say nothing about It," said
Public Servlco Commissioner Michael J.
Rynn.
This answer was the same as that gtvep.
by John J. Rahllly, State deputy of the
ICnlirhts of Columbus.
Intimations were given, however, by,
some of the rank and tile or a possiDio revo
lution nrlslng from the conference, Inas
much aB the Sinn Felners were not strictly
classed as Nationalists.
References to the subject will probably
be made during the course of the mass
meeting to be held tonight nt tho Metro
politan Opera Houso for tho Irish patriots
who died in tho recent revolution. Mr,
Ryan will bo ono of tho speakers, as will
W. Bourke Cockran, former Congressman
from New York city.
Below is William E. Crow, chair
man of the Republican State Com
mittee, which met today to or
ganize and elect Senator Penrose
National Committeeman. Above
are tho delegates from Delaware
County. From left to right, they
are R. J. Baldwin, J. L. Rigley,
William T, Ramsey and Thomas 21.
Garvin.
VISCOUNT FRENCH DISPUTES
BIRRELL'S CALL FOR TROOPS
LONDON. May 31. John Viscount
French, commander-in-chief of the home
forces of Great Britain, in a letter to Baron
Contlnoed on rate filx. Column Four
THROWN FROM'SADDLE
IN DEVON HORSE SHOW,
REED KNOX UNINJURED
Ardency Hits Top Bar in Tak
ing Jump, but Rider Lands
on Feet and Stops
Mount
NO SERIOUS ACCIDENTS
Photographs on pictorial and society
page lUuttrate thU article.
Bu a BtatT CorrMpoitiJent
DEVON, PA. May 31,-tone hundred and
two horses rose and soared easily over the
eight four-foot Jumps in the oval before
the grandstand at the Devon Horse Show
here this afternoon, without even a slip to
startle spectators. The crowd watted ex
citedly for spills, but there were none.
Four classes of Jumpers put at the bars
in succession were run off safely and.
though Jumping is popular, only a Bmall
crowd watched the events. No more than
nve hundred Visitors were at the grounds
unto the Intermission for luncheon this
afternoon, but oltlclaU predicted the pres
ence of ft greater crowd for the iate hours.
The slim ottendance today was regarded as
a SuS T reaction after the holiday yes
terday. When one of the biggest horse show
crowds JVer seen here was on the field and
flUThMohawhon were here today, however,
wer7 keenly Interested In the exhibitions.
kbw stayed in the Btand: the rails around
The oval were lined from end to end with
interested throng, which followed an
nouSnts eagerly and Jotted down re-
8Tee'dnaCgU "Ardency." In a fifth
inline claw, saved himself from a hard
faU Pby Urfdng lightly when his horse
winrked off a top bar at one barrier and
KSed WnV off. Mr. Knox landed on his
et tnd stopped his horse within a few
feoi,rles Kuhn, of the First Artillery,
Tvtanla National Guard. South Bethle
&m whS was thrown yesterday by Mar
h5?i' i?.v over Jump, hobbled around th
Sh,i n Lutchei today Kuhn, who learneu
?eIHd?$&t wher. he was in the Third
United States r.e.aAg.uc---
Va . .rode n two even UarshaU
"GERMAN SINGERS," CRY
AGAINST U. OF P. OPERA;
RESENTED BY FACULTY
'Patriotic Students' Committee"
Sends Out Thousands of Cir
culars Announcing Mass
Meeting of Protest
CALLED A
PROTEST AGAINST SINGERS
A self-designated "Citizen's Com
mittee" is circulating a petition
protesting against the appearance
of Mme. Marie Rappold (ahoye)
and Mme. Margaret Matzenauer
(below), in the forthcoming per
formance of Aida," at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, because of
their ''German" parentage.
A protest against th,e appearance of
Mario Rappold, Margarete Matzenauer and
others In. the opera of "Alda" on Franklin
Field on June 6 was made today by the
"Patriotic Students Committee," which sent
out several thousand circulars to students
and members Qf the faculty of the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, announcing that a
mass-meeting would be held In Houston
Hall on riaay mgiii io opponn mo appear-
Vn . rode in WU ""'., - ' nrvii i .,.,., n liu f;min alnrars.
gpralnedhlwi"ey( 0We(J by Major, The cjreular goes, on to say that a sig-
OJ .1 m I
tH
Ceattouid 9 J"M 3rt Crtwan On Continued on Tvo. Cloo J
CRANK BOMBARDS
VANDERBILT HOME;
AIMED AT OIL RING
Foreigner Hurls Bricks Into
Residence in Plot to Kill
Rockefeller
"COP" HALTS ATTACK
"CHEAP TRICK"
1 ' .JB43B&flia--i
NEW TOniC, May 31. After ho had
thrown threo bricks through tho window of
William IC Vanderbllt, Sr.'s 5th avenuo
mnnslon today In the belief ho was attack
ing John D. Rockefeller, Sncrbcs Itsowrd
des, 40 yoars old, n foreigner, waa over
powered and nrrcstcd by n policeman.
Itsowrddos confessed, according to the
police, that with threo othor men ho plotted
the assassination of tho oil magnate By
mistake ho throw the bricks through tho
Vanderbllt mansion, at CEO 6th avenue, two
blocks from tho Rockefeller home in E2d
street
Tho prisoner said ho lived at 261 New
Main street, Yonkers, N. Y. Ho camo to
America from Italy 1G years ago and
worked ns a wood carver nnd sculptor,
ho said. Eight years ago business In his
trade became so poor that he was forced
to obtain employment as a subway laborer
to keep his wife nhd four children from
starving. ,
-IIo blamed Rockefeller and other capital
ists for his troublo."Wlth threo men, whoso
names ha refused to give, ho planned to
kill Rockefoller. Tho scheme ho said, was
for two of tho men to throw bricks through
tho front windows of tho Rockefeller home,
whllo tho other pair, shot at Rockefoller
when ho ran out.
Rsowrddes" confederates deserted him,
but he decided to carry out tho plot him
self, though nrmod only with a stiletto,
with a four-Inch blade. IIo came to New
York early today with a small Batch flllod
with bricks.
Tho first brick tho foreigner Bent crash
ing through a window In tho Vanderbllt
home wrecked a mirror valued at $800, Tho
others damaged valuable furniture.
Policeman Lavender heard the crash and
ran toward the Vanderbllt home Just as
William K. Vanderbllt. Sr.. and Mrs. Van
dorbllt thrust their heads out a second-story
window to find what was going on.
Rsowrddes was reaching Into his satchel for
another brick as Lavender ran toward him.
Believing he was about to throw a bomb,
the policeman hurled himself at tho for
eigner and threw him to tho pavement.
Rhowrddes, short of build but muscular,
fought viciously for soveral minutes beforo
he was subdued.
NORTHWEST MOURNS
AS JAMES J. HILL IS
CARRIED TO GRAVE
North Dakota Suspends Activi
ties for Two Hours Schools
Close in St. Paul Flags
at Half-Mast
PRIVATE FUNERAL HELD
ST. PAUL, Minn., May 31. The Nort
west Btood still today while Its great build
er, James J, Hill, was burled. Funeral
services, strictly private and without
flowers at the request of the family
were held at the home at S o'clock this
afternoon. Vicar General Gibbons, of the
Catholla Diocese of St. Paul, officiated and
burial was at the Hill family's favorite
farm. North Oaks, pear St, Paul,
By Governor Hanna's proclamation,
North Dakota waa asked to stop all actlvt.
ties from I to 4 p. m, today.
"In the death of James J, Hill Noeth
Dakota has lost Its best friend," the Gov
ernor's proc!amatIonVald.
Schopls'were closed in St. Paul through
out the day, State Capitol depigments
were closed and flags throughout Iho State
were at halfmast. The halfmastlng of
flags, by official order, Is the most signal
honor ever paid a private citizen. By procla
mation ojf- St. Paul's Mayor every cltUen
was asked tq pause wherever he stood and
bow his head from 3 to 2:05 In honor of
HUl. Activity in factories, shops and other
establishments were ordered absolutely sus
pended for this period.
SAMUEL G. BLYTHK
Will Report Both
National Conventions
Daily for the
Sttenmg t&$a merger
His first articla will apFecr Monday
QUICK NEWS
NEW YORK. . ,0
PHILLIES.. ..0
ATHLETICS ls 00230001 17
NEW YORK... 0 0 12 0 0 0 5 X 8
Nnbora mid Meyer; Cullop nutl Kuuamnkcr. ,
ATHLETICS 2d
NEW YORK... t ' , .
0 2
G 2
YANKS WIN FIRST OF TWIN BILL FROM MACKS
ATHLETICS r h o a e
Witt, as 0 2 14 1
Pick, 3b 0 0 2 5 0
Strunk, cf 10 2 0 0
Lajoic,2b 0 0 13 1
Mclnnis, lb 0 2 13 1 0
Walsh, rf 112 10
Oldring, If 2 2 0 0 0
Meyer, c 112 10
Nabors,p 1 0 1 0 0
Bush.p 1 I 0 0 0
NEW YORK r h o a
Gilhooley, rf 12 10
Magee, cf 0 10 0
Gedeon,2b 0 0 3 0
Bauman, 3b. ss. .. 1 0 0 0
Pipp, lb 1 1 13 1
Boone, ss .x "1 0 2 G
High, If 1.1 1 0
Nunamakcr, c 10 5 2
Cullop, p 0 0 0 1
Keating, p 1 0 0 -t
Baker, 3b 1 1 0 0
Russell, p.
0 0 0 C
Totals.
... .7 0 2-1 15 2
Totals .'.8 C 27 14 2
BELMONT RACING RESU1
rir3t race, for maidens, 2-ycar-olds, wUh ?500 added, 5 furlongs
Ivory Black, 115, toftus, 1 to 4 and out won; Passing Fancy, 115,
Gamer. 6 to 1, 3 to 5 nndout, second" Thoughtful, 115, Allen, 10 to
1, 6 to 5 and out, third. Time, 1:3 5.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
First race, 4-year-altla and up, 6 furlongs Sonny Boy, 111, "W.pl
stenholm, $6.20, $420 and ?3.70, -won; Hearthstone, 103, Mott,
$B.80 nnd'$5, second; Ni-Arcene, 105NlcUlaus, $8.30, third. Time, 1:20
Second "tcp, pun-e ?000, 3-year-olds and up, selling, 5 1-2 fur
lougs -Ar " '''2 Vnid, $52.G0, $21.20 and'?0.10, won; Quien
Sab. 110, iii:i.iil-'- Sf "i inu $3.70, second; Lily Onue, 110, Foden,
&Z
READING FURNACES OPERATED AFTER 10-YEAR IDLENESS
HEADING, Pa., May 31. After an Idleness of 10 years tho Seyfert iron fur
naces, below Reading, were put In operation today by tho Naglo Steam Company,
of Pottstown, which has leased the property for a year, with tho privilege of pur
chase. The members of the new firm were formerly associated with "Worth Brothers'
plant at Coatesvlllo. It is expected tho firm will put a night shift to work at Soy.
fert's in tho near future.
COAL ADVANCES 10 CENTS A TON TOMORROW
In accordance with tho schedule previously announced, tho retail prlco of
anthracite coal, ns well as the wholesale price, will be raised 10 cents a ton to
morrow on all sizes, nnd thereafter 10 cents a month on tho first of each month
until October,
KERN-TO NAME MARSHALL AT ST. LOUIS
WASHINGTON, Mny 31. Vice President Marshnll will be placed in nomination
at the Democratic convention by Senator Kern, senior Senator from Indiana, it was
learned today,
LORD CECIL TO CONFER WITH BRIAND IN PARIS
PARIS, May 31. Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of Blockade in the British Cabinet,
nrrlved hero today, to confer with Premier Briand and Denys Cochin on the ques
tion of tightening tho British blockade. It is also believed that Lord Cecil, who is
I'arllamentary Secretary to the Foielgn Office In London as well as Minister of
Blockade, will confer on the United States protest against mall seizures by the
Allies.
MAN'S BODY FOUND IN THE DELAWARE
The body of a mlddle-agtid man, believed to be that of a Bailor, was found floating
In the Delaware River today on Christian street by tho crew of the police boat King.
The body, which was badly decomposed, was removed to tho morgue. In one of the
pockets waa a piece of paper on which tho following waa written: "Andres Ilraml.
35 years old, sailor,"
, MURPHY RE-ELECTED NATIONAL COMMITTEEMAN
TRENTON, May 31, At a special meeting here today ex-Governor Franklin
Murphy was unanimously chosen by the Republican State Committee to succeed
himself for another four years as New Jorsey member of the Republican National
Committee, He was unopposed.
ALL RUSSIANS ABOVE AGE OF 19 CALLED TO COLORS
LONDON, May 31. AH Russians above the age of 19, according to a Pctrograd
dispatch to the London Times, have been called to thj colors for Immediate Bervlce.
The ago limit at which liability for military service begins in Russia has hitherto
been 20.
PROVINCE OF HUNAN, CHINA, PROCLAIMS INDEPENDENCE
SHANGHAI, May 91. The Inland province of Hunan has proclaimed ts Inde
pendence of the Chinese Republic.
The declaration of Independence of the province or Ilunan follows that of vir
tually all the southern provinces of China. The south China revolutionists declare
they will form a separate republic unless President Yua,n Shlh-kal resigns Imme
diately, J. WILLIAM WHITE BEQUEST AIDS UNIVERSITY SCHOOL
The bequest of 160.000 In the will of Or. 3. William White for the permanent
endowment of a professorship In surgical research at the University o Pennsyl.
vanU will mean not only expansion, but It will enable the University to keep pace
with other institutions of learning', according to Dr. Wham Pepper, thei dean.
Until nqw tho University, hu been, handicapped la that Ibi. Xan Fpper sili.
PENRbSE CHOSEN
COMMITTEEMAN;
VOTE UNANIMOUS
Peace Rules as Men Claimed
by Brumbaugh Vote
for Senator
PLEA FOR AN ARMISTICE
Forty-nine of 76 Delegates to
Convention Expected at This
Afternoon's Caucus
Events in Republican
Politics Here Today
Ropublican Stato Committee met
nt 11 o'clock in Bcllcvuc-Strntford
to reorganize, elect officers and a
National Committeeman.
Senator Penrose unanimously
chosen Nntional Committeeman to
succeed Henry G. Wasson. Stato
Senator Crow re-elected chairman
of Stato Committee nnd W. Harry
Baker rc-olcctcd secretary.
Senator Pcnroso host to Stnto
committeemen nnd Republican Na
tional Convention delegates at
buffet luncheon following committco
meeting.
"Rump caucus" of the National
Convention delegates at 2:30 o'clock
In response to call by Penrose.
Brumbaugh-Vnre delegates, de
claring Penrose hnd no authority to
call caucus, did not attend.
Sonator Penrose was unanimously elected
Republican Nntional Committeeman from
Pennsylvania to BiiCceed Henry G. Wasson
at a meeting of tho recently elected Repub
lican Stnto Committco held in the Bollovue
Stratford this morning. A total of 110 of
the 113 Stato committeemen wcro present.
Thcro waa absolute peaco and harmony be
tween tho Vnrc-Brumbaugh and tho Pcnroso
factions In the organization nnd tho 4t
committeemen claimed by Governor Brum
baugh voted solidly for the Senator.
Without any fight the Stato committee
also re-elected Stato Senator William E.
Crow, chairman : W. Harry Baker, secre-
Uary, and Charles Johnson, treasurer. Mr.
Johnson resigned as State Insurance Com
missioner a few wooks ago, after charging
that Attorney General Brown had attempt
ed to cocrco him into working politically
for Governor Brumbaugh, and It was not
thought he would be a candidate for re
election. OLIVER'S "VALEDICTORY."
Penrose speakers who addressed the
meeting of the State Committee urged that
at least nn armistice bo declared in the
fanflnnnl fjvlit until nftnr thn nrfRMrntfil
'election. Ono of tho speakers' said he felt
sure there would bo peace In the Republi
can organization within the noxt two years.
Senator Oliver, who Is not a candidate for
re-election, delivered what he termed his
"political valedictory."
After tho meeting tho Tenrose 'followers
predicted that 49 of the 7G delegates to the
Republican National Convention would at
tend the caucus called by Senator Penrose
for this afternoon. This number, they said",
Continued on Pare Two, Column Two
ROOSEVELT SWING
IN MID-WEST JARS
HUGHES BOOMERS
Slackening of Sentiment for
Jurist in Wake of
Colonel's Trip
CONVENTION A WEEK OFF
CHICAGO, May 31. With the actual
calling to order of tho Republican National
Convention but a week away, the political
pots along candidates' row, on Michigan
avenue, began seething today. Every one
connected with a boom, from the highest
campaign director to the lowest private in
the ranks, began a week of fervid labor.
For the first time, today the hordes ot
favorite son adherents now in Chicago be
gan to consider Roosevelt's swing through
the Mississippi Valley with concern. The
unprecedented reception given the ex-Pres
dent at Kansas City, the split In the Illinois
support of Sherman In favor of the Colonel
and the probable, results or nis su iouis
debut today formed, the principal bone for
hungry politicians here.
Accentuating the concern with which the
"favorite son-ers" view the Oyster Bay
sage is the noticeable slackening here of
Hughes sentiment. This, according to
prominent Hughes supporters, has been con
sclqusly or unconsciously accepted by Frank
II, Hitchcock, former PpBtmaster General
and active Hughes Ambassador.
Mr. Hitchcock has talked freely since his
arrival In Chicago. lie has told everybody
the the silent Justice will accept the nomina
tion If it Is offered htm. And he has In- ,
tlmated directly or indirectly that he
(Hitchcock) is going to be "The big
man" In the Hughes campaign after his
nomination.
This haa been resented by other Hughes
boomers. The resentment haa become so
acute, according to reliable Information,
that an attempt has been made to get Jus
tice Hughes' personal views on the activi
ties of Mr. JIltcncocK.
A story was widely circulated about the
hotels today that Justice Hughes was called
over the long distance telephone from Chi.
eago with the object in view. The name of
the man who called was not divulged.
At all events, the story goes, the Justice's
secretary answered the telephone and to all
questions replied merely:
"Justice. Hughes cannot he disturbed by
the matter at this time."
Whether the story is true or not, it af.
forded food for much speculation cjqong
the political camps today.
The first actual meeting In connection
with the convention was scheduled today
the subcommittee on arrangements wtlLygt
together probably, late this ufterpooji and
transact some preliminary business. In
creasing activity In all lines was stirred by
the ejected arrival of an Eastern con
tingent during the day The new arrivals
will be WlllUm Barnes and ex-Senator Mus
ray Crane, of the "Old auard," lit ad,
tlon. George von Xj. Meyer. Secretary af th
IJayy undir Roosevelt, was exsftstml ta 4
in ana isna
boosting
ba&d tu, the jStmmU
5.1
'K$
