What to Wear
And How to IVcar It?On the
Woman's Page Daily
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court News in The T.-D.
V(ll.l'ME 06
M MilUlt mi
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1916.?SIXTEEN PAGES.
WBATHKt __PAIR
PRICE TWO r.TT.NTR
They Are Compelled to Yield I
Along Bethincourt-Cu
mieres Road.
ALSO FORCED TO RETIRE
FROM THiAUMONT WOOD I
Crown Prince Throwing Large
Masses of Fresh Troops
Into Battle.
ARTUiLERV KIRK IS HEAVV
Attackers Celohratn lOOth Day of
Conflict by Achieving Impor
tant Gulns.
I ?-'ich position; on a front of ap-1
proximately two miles. extending from
the southern edge of i,.? jjor, ttl
the Cumtcrcs village. northwe.vt of
Verdun, have been captureri by the
Germans. arcordlui; to the latest of
flclul communication from P.erlin Tn
j iddltion. the Teutons a train ha vo ]
y/prissed forward in the Thiatimont
I wood. northeast of Verdun, ami added
| to th?lr line In the eastern part of it.
These pains, made during the vicious
fi^htlii^ of Monday, have been in part
admitted by Paris. which his reported
the loss of an.i meters of advanced
trenches northwest of Cumieres and the
retirement from similar positions to the
south or the road between Rethincourt
,-and ?.umleres. Berlin says the '?erm3ns
'captured 1.313 prisoners. including sev
eral staff officers
?VIOf.r\T IIO>1IIA IIDMIIM'
STI 1.1, IS IV I'ltOCIlKSS
Around I.e Mort Homme and Cumieres
a violent bombardment Is still In prog
ress, but there has been a diminution
In the Intensity of the nr.- of The bin
puns northeast of Verdun since the
fighting of Monday there apparently
have been no infantry attacks ;,rn
where on either side of the Meuse
The Austrians have begun another
attack against t >?.- Italians In tin
Poslna region of Italy, southwest <?f
Poslna. and farther north, ah.ng th
upper reaches of the Astico River, on
the Austro-It.tllan border. South of
Poslna Itall mt. prepared fur their
ortenslve with a bombardment, but.
according to Rome, the Italians, after
a desperate struggle aaninst the Aus
trian Infantry, retained tlieir positions.
In th* Lagnrin.i Valley. .,n the Pasubio
sector, and in the Sugana Valley, at
Ospedaleppo. the Austrians are heavily
bombarding the Italian potions
'.Mi the Russian front the Germans
essayed an offensive northeast of Au
gustinhof. but were driven b:,ck to their
trenches by the Russians.
Th?- Aus'rirtiis in Gnllcla met with ii ]
momentary success near Gliadki. driv
ing the RusMar.s from a position and
capturing It The Russians, however,
in a counterattack recaptured the post
N'ear Routchach* the Austrians at
tempted an offensive, but it way put
down by the Russian Are
SITI'ATIOX IS t \( II \\r,i:i),
At'( lllt|)IN<; TO 111 SSIAN'S
On their front in Asiatic Turkey the
Russians report the situation un
changed. Constantinople say* that near
!? elahie. in the Kut-el- \mara recion,
the Turks silenced two Rrltish yuns
and took prisoners in a surprise attack.
The Germans are with the Mule-ar
ians in the advance j?to Greek Mace
donia. The invasion, according to Ber
lin. was made as a protection against
a surprise attack which the entente
allies were planning.
The total subscript ions to the recent
Austro-Hungarian war loan are said
to have reached I.OtiO.C'OO.OOfl crowns.
Germany is soon pr.inp to ask for a
war credit of 12,050,0fi0.0f?.1 marks, nr.. I
cording tc. a Rerlin ii'Mvspappr.
MASSRS OK rttKSH TIIOOPS
AltK TIIIIOWV IVTll 1IATTI.K 1
Lnxnnx, May so.?with the aid or
20,0^0 fresh troops, the crown prlyce
celebrated the one hundredth day of
the battle of Verdun to-day with an I
important success The French Mm- of
two miles between Dead Man's Hill and
Cumieres village. on the west of the1
Meuse, has been thrown back beyond
Iho Rethincourt highway, which runs
between the deep valley and the hill i
The capture of the French positions,
which followed a night attack, means
that the nermann are enabled to
straighten out their slowly advancing
line and prevent any flanking action
against their positions at Cumieres
village and on Dead Man's Mill it also,1!
apparently, establishes the German r,>n
ir?l th? Corbea u x and Cumieres
???iods. which the Germans have em
ployed as their sallying ground, for
the Rerlin official report claims that
the captured positions are already or
y anized.
Tn addition to this valuable territorial
gain, the Germans also capturcd 1,313
men and several staff officers. To com
plete the day's victory the crown prince
advanced somewhat in the Thiaumont
wood, on the opposite bank of the
-Vie use.
The T- rench admit a retirement on the
west, but claim that all attacks of the
'?ermarir in other sections were driven
back with heavy losses.
Both sides comment on the exceed
ingly violent character of the artillery
fire, the bombardment continuing all
night and all to-day.
CLAIM CAPTmrc OK POSITION'S
ALONG EXTIIIB KROXT
BERLIN, May 30 (via London).?The
capture of French positions along the
entire front, between the southern
ridge of Dead Man's Hill and the vil
lage of Cumieres. south of the Cor- i
(Continued on Sccond" Pago.) I
Anonymous Tribute
Statue of (icorgc Washington un
veiled recently at West Point. The
donor was described only as* a "pa
triotie citizen, a veteran of the Civil
Wjit."
EITHER TUCKER OH GLASS
If OPPOSE SIIMSOIt
Movement. Developed at Washing
ton. Likely to Lead to Another
Intrajiarty Fight.
SHOKT Tf.MK IN" WHICH TO .ACT
Local Political Authorities Inclined
to Relieve Senatorial Contest Will
Develop Before Friday, Which Is
I-as I Day to File Notice. ^
Hard r.n the heels of the pc.icc con
ference which patched up th~ party
| quarrel that grew out of the Glass
j James content, csmc yesterday from
i?*veral you roes the interesting report
? that another Intrapnrt.v n^rht Is brew.
Jn,T 'hat n determined movement has
been launched to brinpr out a candidate
to oppose Senator Claude ,\. Swans..n
i f'%r fh<- Cnited .States Senate. '
The State < -tpiioi ;tn,] other political
Fathering places were all l.ut deserted
yesterday r,r a. count of the Memorial
I'ay festivities, anti local or.flrmatlon
o. the report was* dinicult to obtain.
; The few political authorities that
">u!.i he rearhed discussed the sug
gestion with interest. Several were
.disposed to regard as extremely likely
;the announcement of a senatorial eon
test between now and nest Friday? the
last day upon which aspirants may tile
notice of candidacy.
ST. fiKOIU.K TICKEH
mav i:\TiMt u.\nc
A.-ccrilinpr to the most reliable in
formation obtainable, Senator Swa?son
may be opposed by Harry St Georire
fucker, ->f Lexington, who ran against
\N Hodges Mann in the s-'jber
; natorial election f i?no. Efforts ro
.e.iol; Mr Tuckcr at his home last nisht
were unsuccessful.
The other possibility is Representa
tive carter Class, of Lynchburg, whose
stirring, bu? unsuccessful, race for the
.--enate |n ion is still recent political
history. It has been the general be
lief of political men for a lonp time
| that Mr. Glass has never abandoned h<s
l ambition to eo to the Senate, and while
| other honors have crowded on him since
the memorable h,.hi of lf.n and a Cahi
net portfolio is predicted for him. some
I of 'be friends of the Lynchburg man
i believe he could be induced to make
.mother try if prospects were stifKci
, ently encouraging.
MH. CI.ASS IS SII.E.VT
AV 11EX Q VEST IO\ EI?
Efforts were made last winter to
commit Mr. Class to make the race.
At that time he indicated to friends
; that he would not be a candidate on
: account of his poor health and because
or the time and attention he would
have to prive to the rural credits legis
I lation in Congress. There followed
sporadic efforts to draw Mr. Tucker or
| Governor Stuart into the contest, but
these were unsuccessful. The matter
was then permitted to rest, Senator
Swanson looked after his fences, and
the Impression grew that the Junior
Senator would be renominated with
lout opposition.
Mr. Glass, when seen in Washington
yesterday, preferred to make no state
ment either with respect to the possi
bility of becoming a candidate himself
or with regard to the possible candidacy
of some one else.
! MOVEMENT I.A I'NOIEO
OX I.AST SATI'll I),\ Y
[Special to The Times-Dispatch ]
j WASHINGTON*. I), c, May ,1ft.?jt
j developed to-day that the movement
to bring an opposing candidate to
Senator Swanson took form last Satur
day. Mr. Tucker came to Wash
ington to mako an address boforo the
j League to Enforce Pence. He saw Mr.
Glass, and urged him to announce, his
candidacy for the Sonato, saying the
contest over national commltteman
between the Lynchburg Congressman
and Rorer A. James had brought out
the fact that Mr. Glass posnenses enor
mous strength with the rank and file
of the people. That, day Mr. James
withdrew as a candidate for national
committeeman, and it was announced
(Continued on Thirteenth Pago?)
CONFEDERATE DEAD
HONORED BY CITY
Fiftieth Memorial Day Is Fit
tingly Observed at Holly
wood Cemetery.
REV. W. D. POWERS SPEAKS
Overcast Skies Do Not Prevent
Great Crowds Cheering
Thin Gray Line.
For the fiftieth time since the rom
nn,m of Lee's army lay ilnwn its arms
at Appomattox and the cause of the
South became but a cherished iiemory,
the city yesterday suspended business
while its people paid the accustomed
I tribute to the IS.00ft Confederate sol
diers who sleep beneath the green
sward of Hollywood Cemetery.
Over the soldiers' section in l'tich
mond's beautiful "city o? the dead."
where earlier in the day loving hands
l had banked flowers and placed the
'? Stars and Bars ~f the Confederacy, the
three military organizations of the city
fir<-d the soldiers' salute in testimony
! of the sacred reirard In which those
who fought and died for the Lost Cause
!are held by those who succeed them
as guardian.* ^f the State.
Surrounded on the speakers' stand by
? a few of the survivors of that terrible
struggle for Southern independence and
speaking to an audience composed
largely of another generation, the
orator of the day, Itev. \\". Dudlc;.
Power*, patd high tribute to the man
hood and the womanhood of the Cor.
i federaey, and pointed to the beauty
and strenRth of their life and character
as a priceless heritage to those who
come after them
; thiikatemm; avkatiikr
DOI5S.VT DKTKIt mOWD
In culmination of the touching senti
ment that has kept alive the memorial
exercises for all these years, the grand
children of the Confederacy, consisting
oi small girls descended from those who
followed the fortunes of Lee and Jack
son. marched by the speakers" stand
and o,j<. to the monument, where they
placed a wreath of red climbers, daisies
{and cedar upon th<- tablet erected i
{memory of the women of the South
Despite threatened rain, a notable
crotvd assembled in the cemetery for
the usual ceremonies incident to the
observance of the occasion. Itev.
1 James T'owc-r Smith, !">. !?.. chaplain of
!i. K Lee Camp, nnd only surviving
j member of Stonewall Jackson's staff,
opened the exercises with prayer.
Lieutenant-Governor J. Taylor Kllyson
presided, and introduced the speaker,
Mr 1'owers, who delivered an address
worthy the occasion and the long line
of distinguished orators who have
spoken on this occasion. Music was
rendered by Kessnich's Municipal Band.
The march to the cemetery, begin
ning at Fifth and Franklin Streets,
was marked by unusual splendor.
Confederate flaes hung from many
houses along the thoroughfares through
which the procession passed, and
crowds, lining the sidewalks, gave
vent to their feelings with ch<.-er after
I che.-r as the military organizations,
| the thin line of veterans, and repre
' sentatives of city and State passed in
: review.
: fJOVKHNOR STI'AHT IS
PHOMIXEXT FIGimE
Marching to the music of the drum
1 find fife corps of the Boy Scouts.
! twenty-six grizzled \ ??terant" and com
rades of those whom the city did honor,
walked, eri-ot of head and firm of step,
from the starting point to the speaker's
stand In Hollywood The fifty inter
vening years since the first memorial
exercises had diminished their ranks,
but the unconquerable spirit and un
faltering step had survived the years.
Behind the veterans rode in carriages
the members of the Hollywood Me
' morlal Association, some of whom were
| among those who, fifty years ago,
j when the city lay In ruins and grim
desolation was on every hand, set out
to establish a monument which should
stand through all the years as a me
morial of their love nnd devotion to
the men who lay down their lives for
home and fireside.
Leading the parade was a detach
ment of mounted poltee, under com
mand of Captain Sowell, anil following
the representatives of the. city rode
j General J. Thompson Brown, chief
j marshal, with his staff of veterans.
Governor Stuart, nephew of the greut.
j cavalry leader who played so promi
; nent a part in those stirring times,
i with his staff, rode behind the veterans.
UK.II SCHOOL CADETS
MAItl ll I,IKE VKHOItA.\S
; In front of the Richmond Light In
I fantry Blues' Battalion, the Grays and
I the Howitzers, Richmond's newest
'military organization, the John Mar
i shall High School cadets, with nut
j nine months of training behind them,
j marched with the precision of veterans.
! The cadets acted as escort ty the
[Granddaughters of the Confederacy,
I and marched with them to place the
j wreath ?on the tablet ereited to the
j memory of the women of the South,
j Mr. Powers paid an eloquent tribute
! to the men and women of the Con
? federaey, saying that the memorials
? and the annual exercises in oonncc
! lion with them served to perpetuate
J only the good, the strength, the beauty
and the chivalry of the South,
j "Memory is cleansed," he said, "of
I the bitterness of the great struggle
, between the. North and the South. It
i is fast becoming an Incident only In
j the history of the nation, the South
standing as the Commonwealth of
England. a Cromwell among a long
list of Kings Memory records simply
the great historic, burning, philo
sophic facts, and the chivalry of them,
their be.auty and their strength. Our
boys and our girls go across the North
ern border to marry and live and be
content, and those of the North come
hero and make their homes in the heart
of tip* South."
SPEAKER IX FAVOR
Qia FEDERAL PENSIONS
Mr. Powers thinks, however, that the
1 government is not treating:
(Continued oh Third Page.) ~
t
um
m n we
Weapon Is Thrown at Roosevelt
During Memorial Day
Parade.
STRIKES REAR OF HIS CAR
Former President Urges Pre
paredness and Declares for
Universal Training.
KANSAS CITY, May open j
i pocket knife was thrown at Colonel
i Roosevelt here to-day as his motor oar
' turneil into Twenty-third Street dur- .
inpr a Memorial Pay parade. The knlfo j
I struck the roar of the automobile, and ,
j was found Inter In the street
Colonel Roosevelt was standing bow
htp in his motor car when the in- j
eident occurred. E. C. Shell, a member
1 of the American Legion, who was walk
i ing by the, side of the car. a part of
the escort, suddenly heard something ,
; strike the machine. He glanced down- |
ward and saw an open pocket knife, at
his feet. Shell picked It up and handed j
It to a policeman. The crowd was so
dense that he made no effort to make
an arrest.
i "I think the knife was thrown by a
i tall man wearing a brown suit and a
straw hat that I saw in the crowd (
when I turned around." said Shell.
According to Shell, the. knife had ;
a wooden handle and one blade.
Colonel Roosevelt to-night character-j
i ized the matter as "an entirely trivial j
Incident." and thoucht no welpht
should be attached to It
Another Incident was the arrest In ;
the lobby of the Hotel Muehlbach of a j
I man who said his name was Edward ,
McDanlel and his home was at Tulsa, j
Okla. He declared he had business
with Colonel Roosevelt, and tried to j
force his way past the police. The ^
: police still were holding the man to- I
nieht, but no charges had been placed j
against him.
T>ECI?ARICS VIOOROl'SI.Y
FOR I XIYEn.V\I< Tn AI NINO ,
Colonel Roosevelt urced preparedness
and declared vigorously for universal
training, based on universal service, in
' several speeches made here to-night, j
He warned his audience that there was
peril to all classes in pacifism.
The former President departed from :
his set speech at Convention Hall long j
enough to say a facetious word about j
I Mexico, but in his other address he!
dwelt steadily on national defense. His i
rtrst message was to a proup of ehil-I
'clren that had p.thered t'i greet him.!
It was "Prepare." A few minutes Jater
he repeated the sentiment to a street |
crowd from the lobby of his hotel. At
noon, a cuest of the Commercial Club i
at luncheon, he sounded another appeal
"It has been said," he declared, "that ;
the West is not interested because it :
J would not suffer from war. 1 know |
that this is a He. I would shrink us \
from a plague from an American who j
! would say that he d>>es not care what ;
! happens to another American."
CONVENTION HAM. IS FILLED
WITH fHRF.HINd THRONC j
Convention Hall was tilled with a
cheering crowd, waving small flaprs1
I when the Colonel entered. A portion 1
! of th<* hall had been reserved for Civil
War veterans, and it was principally!
to them thnt Colonel Roosevelt directed ;
his remarks.
?We are told that we enjoy peace]
with Mexico," he said, in speaking of j
j the republic to the south. "Eighteen!
| years asro we had a war with Spain. j
I The number of Americans killed in |
Mexico during this peace with Mexico]
surpassed the number of Americans'
, killed by Spain in the war with Spain, I
i and when this war was throuph it was
i through, whereas peace continues to |
i race with unabated violence alone the J
{ Mexican border."
Coming to the question of an in-j
, vasion of American shores by a foreign |
force, he declared that if an army half ,
i the .size of that which attacked the 1
i Dardanelles should attack this country,!
' America would be at its mercy.
"If such an invasion took place." said,
i he. "against it we would pit an army
j of ill-trained men?an army of about i
j one-third the size of the invading arm* ;
' untrained, badly armed and without the
necessary artillery, and we would send
: the young sons of America to he
?butchered, to make good for the fact,
that we had not prepared in advance."'
COLONEL I'AVS CAI.L
ON EOll.MEIt UO\HR.NOR
1 After his Convention Hall address,;
Colonel Roosevelt motored to the. homo!
of Herbert S. Hadley. former Governor.!
i for a visit. Mr. Hadley was toe ill to
1 take his place on the reception commit-j
tee. and Colonel Roosevelt Insisted on
j callinp upon him. !> was declared
| later that the call was purely social,
i Colonel Roosevelt left to-night for St.
Louis.
John McGrath, Colonel Roosevelt's
; secretary, announced ro-nlghi that he;
! would ko from St Louis to-morrow*!
I night to Chicago, where he would re
| main until nfter the Progressive and
Republican conventions. He reiterated
1 that Colonel Roosevelt has no Inten-j
' tiori now of being in Chicago at that ;
j time.
After addresses at St. LouL* to-mor
; row. the former President plans t-?
'return to Oyster Ray at once, stopping;
jorly at Newark. N. J., ivh're he will
| speak on Thursday at the iwo hundred
J and fiftieth anniversary of t.ii cltv's
] fo-.int.ing.
LIEUT. SPRING-RICE KILLED
Younger Brother of British Aitihuaxndor
to I'nltfil States Slnln
In Action.
LONDON", May 30.?Lieutenant-Gen
eral Spring-Rice, younger brother of
the British ambassador to thf. United
States, Sir Cecil Arthur Spring-Rice,
has been killed in action. He was
llfty-two years of ago.
i
WILSON WARNS MEN
FROM OTHER LANDS j
Heroic Figure of South Passes
COLONKIj .JOHN" S. MOSBV.
Picturesque Leader
of Southern Cavalry
Dead in Washington
Col. John S. Mosby, Famed
in Annals of War Be
tween States, Falls Be
fore Burden of Years.
WASHINGTON. May 30.?Colonel
John S. Mosby, famous Confederate
cavalry loader of the Civil "War, died
here to-day. after a long illness. He
was a native of Virginia, and was
eighty-two yeara old.
Colonel Mosby was on* of The most
picturesque figures in tho capital,
where he had lived for many yeara
after the war. In spite of his ad- i
vanced age, until a few weeks ago it
was his custom to take many walks
through part of the downto Vn section
of the city. Age had not bent his fig
ure nor dimmed the keenness of eye
that commanded The baud that made
vivid history in the war. and it was
seldom he passed through a crowded
street that ho was not recognized.
For many years the Confederate
leader was employed at the Depart
ment of Justice, but he left the service
several years ago. A few weeks ago j
he became ill, and was taken to Oar- I
field Hospital, where he lingered until j
he died to-rlay.
ms heath is m;re
SOMSI.Y TO OI.D AGK
Colonel Mosby's death, his physicians
said, was due solely to old age. and |
he was conscious and interested in j
what was going on about him until j
an hour before he passed away. He J
will be burlerl at Warrenton on Thurs
day morning at :? o'clock, and some |
survivors of his noted command will ho
his pallbearers. Honorary pallbearers
selected to-night, are:
Captain Charles Heattie, of Virginia;
Captain Dunnington, of Washington; j
Captain Samuel Chapman, of Covington,
Va., ami James Wiltshire. All served
in the Confederate cavalry. His death
on .Memorial Day was affecting to!
many.
It was said of Mosby that he never
took part In veterans' reunions, be
cause. twenty-two years ago. when ho
attended one of his command at Alex- |
andria, Va.. he was so overcome with
emotion ho was unable to speak.
Colonel Mosby's surviving children
are: Mrs. Stuart Mosby Coleman, of
1 440 Rhode Island Avenue, Northwest,
who made her homo with her father
during his declining years. Miss Ada
Mosby and Miss Pauline Mosby, of
Baltimore, and Beverley C. Mosby, of
Spokane, Wash. Two sisters also sur
vive. They are: Miss Rlakey Mosby
and Mrs. Charles "W. Russell, of Wash
ington.
John Singleton Mosby was born at
Hdgemont, Powhatan County, on De
cember 6, 1833. His father was Alfred
D. Mosby, of Amherst County, and his
mother was Virginia I. McLaurin,
daughter of an Episcopal clergyman.
His early life was spent near his birth
place, but he early announced his in
tention of becoming a lawyer, and en
tered tho University of Virginia.
SHOOTS MAX WHO
SI.ANDKItS WOMAN
While a student, young Mosby heard
a companion speak compromlslngly of
a young woman In his presence. , He
demanded an apology, and shot and
seriously wounded the slanderer. For
this he was tried and convicted, fined
and sentonced to Jail. After spending
eleven months In prison, ho was par
doned by tho Governor and restored to
| liberty. His tine was remitted by the I
? Legislature.
Books were not forgotten during j
j those troublous flays, and when Mosby
| left the Albemarle County Jail ho was j
an accomplished classical scholar, and J
' had become proficient In his law |
| studies. Shortly after his graduation I
i from the University of Virginia, in j
1S52, he was admitted to practice, and !
j settled at Bristol, Va., becoming its i
| first lawyer. There he won quite a I
I reputation, and had a lucrative prac- |
Jtice when the. War Between the States
j started.
i Volunteers were called for, and j
j young Mosby was one of the first to ;
l step to th" front. He enlisted as a \
! private In the First Virginia Cavalry, I
! of which General J. E. 13. Stuart was j
I the colonel. The first day's drill was
I his Introduction to military life, and j
j he received his baptism of fire at the 1
I first battle of Manassas>v
j t.IOl) STI AIIT OX
pa Mors i.oxo nun:
, Although Mosby had been in ?er- j
I vice a year, he had given no indica- j
tion of the remarkable talent that was j
about to develop. He was a trusted i
scout, and was assigned to watch the j
movements of McClellan, who was ad- j
vancing on Richmond with his superb
ly organized army. One afternoon he j
j was sent, out to reconnoiter along the j
i right flunk of the Union army. Ho
I skirted the moving columns, and then
j for eight miles along the roar of the
lines His active mind saw the poa
I slbilltics of bringing cavalry over tho
! same route.
| Arriving back at camp, Mosby told
| Stuart of his plan. Its feasibility was
[?apparent, and Mosby was taken to |
I General 1-ee and again told to explain J
[the proposition. General Lee gave!
| permission for the attempt, and Stuart, J
| led by the audacious Mosby, then ti j
, mere trooper, started on the long rido. !
| The perilous trip was made without '
I the loss of a man or horse, and tho j
fact that a handful of cavalry had rid- ?
I den around the entire Federal army j
threw the North into a panic, and tho
I South was jubilant. It was this effect
i that was the keynote, of all Mosby's
j subsequent success.
; oik;amziou ax
IM)KI*KM)F,.\T COMMA Xn
! For his remarkable exploit, Mosby ;
| was given permission to organize an \
j independent cavalry command. Ho
; crossed the Happahannock Illver into
Northern Virginia and gathered a band
of irregulars. In March of JK83 ho
was given the rank of captain, and i
j Immediately began to harass the i
I enemy, although the. original purpose j
| of the company was for defense only. I
j It was not the nature of Mosby, how- J
: ever, to remain inactive, and he began j
1 making tentative raids. As his fame
j spread through th? country districts,
j the command grew On the night of |
' March 8, Mosby, taking twenty picked ,
| men with him, penetrated right into ,
' the heart of the Federal lines, between '
I Washington and Fredericksburg, en- 1
i tered Fairfax Courthouse under cover ?
' of .Inrkness, captured General Stough- j
| ton in the midst of the sleeping army '
| and carried him safely away, together !
j with twoscore prisoners, all of whom, !
I with the kidnapped general, were j
I turned over to the Confederate author!- j
ties nt Culpeper. j
Mosby's Partisan Bangers, as they j
I were known, became the terror of j
the opposing army. When not on a i
raid, the rangers scattered for safety, j
only to assemble again and strike an- j
other blow. They cut communications I
and destroyed supply trains. Num
bers of outposts wore captured by the
Intrepid cavalrymen, and the Federals
were forced to strengthen their pick
ets, contract their lines and to use
(Continued on Third Page.)
)
Cannot Allow Old Loves tc
Take Place of Present '
Allegiances.
PRESIDENT WOULD AGREE
TO "DISENTANGLING" UNION
Wants to See Alliance Uniting
Peoples to Preserve Peace
of World.
'ACID TEST" FOR EMPLOYERS
Executive, in Artlngton Address,
Asks if Rusinessr. Men Are Ready
to Help in Preparedness.
J-ARHIXOW. Mny 30.?rrcstdent
w ilson delivered a Memorial I ay ad
dress to-day. in which he tinned
he npirit of America, warned citizens
of foreign hirth not to set themselves
against the purposes of the nation.
r u,lon -vni"iR men to perform vol
untary military service, and defended
his recent surest ion for an alliance
of nations to preserve peace. He
??l>oke at Arlinpton National Cemeter\\
before an audience made up largely*
Mm' i WarIvetrrana- who applauded!
nlni vigorously. \
'<-hile. President Wilson declared, ho
had no harshness in his heart for
Americans of foreign hirth, and ex
pected them still to love the sources
of their origin. he added:
-America must come first in everv
purpose we entertain, and every man
must count upon heinp cast out of our
confidence, cast out ever, of our toler
ance. who does not submit to that
?Treat ruling principle"
SpeaUin* of America, made up out
of all the peoples of the world, as tha
champion of the rights of mankind, afr.
?\ ilson said: '
^ ?* are ready not only to co
operate, but we are ready to fight
against any aggression, whether from
within or without. But we must guard
oursehes against any sort of aggres
sion which would bo unworthy of
iz
IS.""1 ??"?? <* ??? ?4
The President reiterated his sum
Rest,on before the League to EnforSJ
eace last week that the United State*
?illimee / toK bec?me a P^rty in tha
richt ? Tr guarantee of "publia
mfni ,'lK; 6elfish aggression." o|
r^I -irCr[t,i0ian,S reminding him thafl
C.eorge Washington warned the nation
against "entangling alliances," ho said?
*ntl ne::er myself consent to an
entangling alliance, but woujf, .yladlit
assent to a disentangling a/ nee a*
alliance which would dlsenfw . i-le th<*
Peoples of the world from , con?
binatlons in which they seek#/ (r own
separate and private .intetf i an*
unite the people of the worlt > pre-,
?ery* the p^ace of the world upon A
basis of common right and Justice."
ISTERROGATION POINT
por nrrsrvKss mtcis>
and
Mr- w"??n declarer),
only if the men of suitable strength
*" . af* y111 volunteer. He said th*
acid test was about to be applied tc?
t0 8<Se whethef ^ey would
He mm?mvloyeca to volunteer,
"fl said the army reorganisation hill
tne?rro M?re him bristIed with that in
e. roga tion point, which, he warned all
the business men of the country, waa "
staring him in the face. ' 3
The President said he was for "unU
veisal voluntary training,", but that
"America docs not wish anything but
he compulsion of the ypirit of Amer
n itio, added thHt th6 P00PI? ?f th?
that ?? W?re watch,n* ?ach other, ana
hat a great many men. even when thoy
Z'?? ???.?
sn'irirhonfeVer 1 *C*k to '^erpret the
'. ! | ' an opcasion like this. I am
We ire'h60' "POn th? 3eaS ot mem?rV. '
Of r?i here to-day to recall a period
of our history which in one sense is
so remote that we n? s?nse is
i* .w . longer seem to
keep the vital threads of it in our
consciousness. and yet |s ao
men who played heroic parts in ft Btm
are living. ?ti? are about us. stili are
here to receive the homage of our re
spect and our honor. Thev heir.
*rfsx.*su?&$i
wg:hiv:
been Questionable in the affalradl
I nlted States were once
lied, disposed of, put hehli
the course of time.
forpotten.
ft was a singiiia|^|v _ r
that was perl**.\d ? complete wo * . ^
?>?> In these ex ere lees j j
spirit of sincere patriotism ?v,i/^
Union Wh?J| r?UKht ?n the al*} f Vt.A'r Cf
Union, and I reflect how .inJ
how handsome a thing ?/' AS ttTil
wounda stjch ae then \,J y
th?tU,\be "? COnsPl*t?ly / ' HB '
that the apwt of AmorlJf i'* ? J
r?r"ihe 7 thft ?#* o<r jture C
i" the all.prevaiiiD^ an i ?'
Srvad at
