COME TO ABBEVILLE CHAUTAUQUA-THREE BIG DAYS-SIX BIG ATTRACTIONS-JUNE 28th, 29th and 30th-Bring the Family Jj
Abbeville Press and Banner j
advayncr ABBEVILLE, S. C., WEDNESDAY, MAY 31, 1916. . established j
14 COUNTIES ADOPT ~
NEW MEASURE
Romimmt HmnteiV License Law Now
3 im Hact?To Appoint G?m War4*n?.
Columaia, S? C., May 27.?A. A.
Richardson, chief game warden of
South Carolina, today Issued the following
statement:
"At the 1916 session of the general
assembly Richland County and 14
otiier counties, not then aHected by
tiie provisions of the resident hunters'
license law, were included under
the provision of the said law. This
law is now in effect and the licenses I
have been placed on sale with the different
magistrates throughout the
county and the law will be strictly
en^T-ced from now on.
. "The resident hunters' license law
requires that every hunter before
banting any kind of game, whether
protected cr uni>rotected game, shall
firot procure a license, except land- I
lords and tenants and their children
on their freeholds and leaseholds, respectively.
The county license costs
SI and is good only in the county.
The State license cost $3 and is good
to hunt in accordance with the laws
anywhere in the State. No county license
is needed for a person who has
a State license. A landlord may give
initten permission to any resident of
bis county to hunt upon his land, in j
which event the written permit must
be carried upon the person of the
^ MM J 1 A <^A1? t\
uuiircr t&iri to a suuotuuvc xux vuu
county license. No written permission
can be extended to any person
Hying outside the county; a State
license is required for any non-resident
of the county. These licenses
tbat have been put on sale are good
until 1, 1917.
"license will be placed on sale in
the other new counties that have
come under the provisions of the
hunters' license law just as soon as
the governor appoints game wardens
and they qualify for their positions.
"I have received a great many inquiries
relative to the above mentioned
law and will thank you to publish
this article for the benefit of
your readers."
Bull Moose Delegates.
Columbia, S. C., May 30.?T. H.
Wannamaker and W. Boyd Evans of
South Carolina.- will attend the convention
of the Progressive party in '
Chicago next month.
Officer Kills Negro.
Columbia, S. C., May 30.?Walter
Jeter, a negro, was killed by H. L.
Ferris, a special officer of the town of
Eau Claire, a suburb of Columbia,!
this week. The officer shot Jeter |
Sunday night and he died on Monday, j
Celebrates Opening.
Greenwood, S. C., May 30.?The
24th anniversary of the reception of
the first child into the Connie Max-1
well Orphanage was celebrated last!
Tuesday. I
Earlo and Keenan Elected.
Columbia, S. C., May 30.?F. Sum- j
ter Earle and R. C. Keenan were
elected councilmen of the city of j
Columbia in a second primary held [
last Tuesday. They defeated M. M. 1
Eice and W. F. Stieglitz.
Dehon Promoted.
Spartanburg, S. C., May 30.?Theodore
Dehon of this city, has been pro
moted to the position of general |
southern agent for the Carolina,;
Clinehfield and Ohio railway with
headquarters in Spartanburg.
Carter Arrested.
Edgefield, S. C., May 30?Anthony i
Carter is under arrest at Augusta, j
Ga. He is wanted in connection with
the killing of James Long near John-1
ston, Edgefield county, twenty-five |
years ago.
Negro Confesses Theft. j
Greenwood, S. C., May 30.?John j
Wesley Leak, a negro was arrested '.
here this week charged with the theft |
of $3,000 worth of jewelry from N.
Stanburg of Atlanta, Ga. The ne-'
gro confessed the theft and the stolen
goods were recovered.
High Cost of Newspaper.
Cleveland Star.
The price of paper has not yet
reached its high water mark and the V
famine is quite severe. The Star froi
a Ufflo nvor a +nn nf news nrint and
a month and the price has jumped not!
within the last 90 days from $50 to thei
$75 per tor., which adds $25 a month us 1
to our pay roll with no way yet pro- int<
vided to get it back. We are doing plai
our best to get the subscription price bat
down, but we cannot run without an
hedging this expense somehow or froi
other. A letter just received from We
the Richmond Times-Dispatch says mai
The Star has been taken off the ex- 1
change list because of the famine, Ne'
and where papers have been extend- lea'
ing each other the courtesy or an is f
even exchange, this courtesy is with- t&
drawn and one Daoer must pay for hai
the paper just as a subscriber is re- I wil
quired to do. 1 bu1
Complete Pr
Day Chai
THE OPENING DAY ATI
The Columbia Concert Com
D. W. Daniel.
Rubie Stanford, violinist, Ruth Thom, ?
LaDell, comprise a company of exceptional
lighting any audience in the country.
Miss Rubie Stanford, violinist, received
the Peabody Conservatory of Music in Balti
tution she has also been a capable assistan
Violin Department. In tone and technique
fies the critics and charms her hearers. SI
a place among the best violinists in the cour
Ruth Thom
Miss Thom is from Toronto, Canada,
youth she has won her place as a vocalist.
" * !?-J ii.i :?
her ncn voice win oe convinueu mui sue ?
opera. Miss Thom has an interesting pe
that peculiar magnetism which is associated
form work, and shows the effect of careful
best teachers. Her repertoire ranges frou
operas to the popular songs. Miss Thom )
and charm her hearers, who always want mc
voice.
Marietta LaDel
Miss LaDell is perhaps the best impers
on the American platform. Very properlj
perience and gifts, the company takes its n
is perfectly at home in the interpretations o1
other characters, familiar to us all. For t
lections have in them a delightful touch oi
brings out with the skill of an artist. She
ing the tragedies of life, as well as its come
the strings of the emotions. Perhaps her m
tions are of childhood. She is the woman 1
talks like a baby, impersonating all the bab;
a cleverness that not only charms but astoi
this she is eminently succesful. The LaDe
make a trio of exceedingly interesting ladies
ing any audience.
Dr. D. W. Daniel
Dr. D. W. Daniel is a native of South
and reared on a farm. By strict economy
he was able to enter Wofford College from
ated, later attending Vanderbilt University
from Vanderbilt he was called to Clemson (
taught for eighteen years.
Dr. Daniel has been much in demand as
splendid type of the Southern gentleman, g
eloquent. His two lectures. "The Fighting
Forces That uuiid communities, are ^ems.
sense of the word, yet he presents his mes:
wholesome humor, rich with apt quotations
carries conviction.
"The feature of the evening was the a<
Prof. D. W. Daniel of Clemson College. It
all who heard it, one of the best addresses
city. It was most scholarly and showed in
speaker was with the choicest of English cl
standard of living to which his ideals and h
trained."?Charleston (S. C..) News and Co1
"While all the talks of those making up
were listened to with profit, it was left foi
to arouse the audience in his own inimitable
the necessity of industrial education. Til
rapturously applauded."?Columbia, (S. C.,)
THE SECOND DAY ATT
Eugene Lockhart and Durr
and Company-Durno, the 1
and Company.
Durno is medicine for mind and body,
tery, he smoothes away the wrinkles and '
is a comedian, Mephistopheles, humorist, m
and philosopher, all in one, interesting, li
ter of magic. Durno ranks with Herman]
the greatest- magician now before the pu
contains a guess, every act a mystery?a tri
deception. He has crossed the continent si
four years. He is the man who never m
least has never missed a date up-to-date. I
The Mexican Wi
70 Years At
fe have received nothing later country. I
n the army by our late papers, men, arms
wo pnnnln fViprpfnre. that I of their abl
tiing of importance has transpired prisoner in
re, or news would have reached be much di
jy this time. It was Gen. Taylor's not be surp
mtion to attack Matamoras and zation and
it the stars and stripes upon the ?The Abb
tlements of that town; if such 1846.
attack has been .made, judging We wou
m the past, that act has been done, the young
shall certainly know by the next aesire to v<
il what our gallant sons are doing. War, to th
/olunteers are still crowding to Marshall, f
iv Orleans; and every steamer He has cal
ring that place for Point Isabel, pany on Sj
illed with men prepared and eager ganize and
battle for their country. It is few names
'dly probable that the Mexicans out the nu
1 seek another fight with our army, | is onerea
t will retire to the interior of the to join his
ogram of Ab
itauqua, Jun
FRACTIONS. a c pan:
he. They ca
the attraction
wizardry he x
pany and Dr. wit and wisdo
Dump aj
vanish, birds
produced fror
loprano, and Marietta audience is b<
artists capable of de- makes the im]
his exhibition
her training from New York W<
imore, in which insti- The Omaha \
t to the head of the hands, is
> Miss Stanford satis- with which he
ke has already earned
ltry.
uuviuiai w
American con
While still in her iand, and i8
Anyone listening to chief
i on her way to grand hig musical m
rsonality, possessing type His hl
with successful plat- himself an ar
training under the
a selections from the
never fails to please CLOS
ire of her inspiring
Tin
[1 For fortj
. zerland Seen
lonator of childhood York Hippodr
IT, because of her ex- u8 anythin? ?
ame from her. She , f
f types, western and ***
he most part, her se- Fifteen years
' humor, which she tention of Eu
is capable of render- at the oars of
idies, and touches all he was entert
iost gifted impersona- ployed by the
tvho laughs, cries and a troupe of h:
Sr characteristics with tertainers bri
inds her hearers. In besides great
11 Co^ert, comPa.ny trill and call
capable of entertain- astonishm
solos and voc
| An echo song
I* calore contri
Carolina, being born repertoire.^ ^
and close application tainment wh
which he was gradu- Dressed in th
After graduating mosphere tha
College, where he has tains. Ther
to vocal deve
a lecturer, and is a ers are an {
enial, brilliant and delightful pre
r Man" and "The nel 0f entert
An orator in every monotony or
sages replete with amused and <
and in a manner that mountain foil
, , and they sing
Idress delivered by evident enjoy
; was pronounced by
ever delivered in this Fran
what close touch the
lassies, and the high
eart and mind were
urier. Vision, I
this interesting party words which s
: Prof. D. W. Daniel of Truth whi<
: and eloquent way < power that ti
ne and again he was herent unit;
State. that men inst
long groped,
PURPOS
RACTIONS. personalF'
10, Magician, overCD eThIc
Mysterious, he delivers wi
* 7 and the persu
in a big worl<
lenge of stridi
With wit and mys- is in His woi
helps digestion. He inspire men w
agician, ventriloquist, to live the big
augh provoking, mas- His strik
i and Kellar, and is ough literary
blic. Every laugh voice, and hii
umph in delightful culiarly fit hii
x times in les3 than and he is a m
isses a date, or at tion of truth,
ilr. Durno is assisted without triflin
ir Situation As Ch
J0 1?|
'rom their recent losses of Washington, Ma
and ammunition, and one of receipt of Gen.
est erenerals, who is now a which officials beli<
New Orleans, they must demand for withdi
scouraged, and we should troops from Mexici
rised to hear of disorgani- conference betwe
desertion in their ranks. Mexican military <
evilly Banner ,June 3, to begin, a protesl
the White House t
Id direct the^ attention of rious differences 1
men of our .District, wno on operators at s
olunteer for the Mexican Mexican authoritie
e advertisement of Capt. The protest cam
ound in another column, telegram addressee
led a meeting of his com- son by 84 Americs
iturday, 13th inst, to or- at Tampico, who 1
elect officers; and as a meeting and deter
are wanting yet to make case before the g
mber required, a chance declared the Mexic
d any person who may wish were promulgating
ranks. to make it impossi
?i?
beville's Three
e 28, 29, 30
j of fun-makers who are rot less interesting than
irry their own scenery, which is not the least among
is of his performance. In connection with his
ises language, sparkling with champagne words of
m, interesting, alike to children and grown-ups.
ipears upon the platform, removes his gloves, which
appear in mid-air, flowers start to grow, water is
n a silk handkerchief and fun goes on until the
iwildered in the maze of mystery and magic. He
possible seem possible, the unnatural natural, and
alone is worth the pricc of a season ticket. The
?rld, says, he "Is an attraction of great merit."
Vorld-Herald says, "Most dexterous of men with
Dumo, and depends on the lightening-like rapidity
works."
Eugene Lockhart.
has traveled with the "Kilties Band," crossed the
tinent twice. aoneared in musical comedy in Eng
rated among Canada'3 leading comedians. His
t is the piano, which serves him most effectively in
onologues. Lockhart is a humorist of the highest
amor is refined, snappy and delicious, and he shows
tist in every way.
IING DAY ATTRACTIONS.
p Tyrolean Alpine Yodlers.
r weeks this company appeared in the famous Swite
in the "Trip Around vhe World," at the New
ome. No company of American singers can give
ke the yodel songs of these magic singers, for the
twisting tones in yodeling is inherited, not taught,
ago the director, Frank Graus, attracted the atropean
tourists by his joyous singing as he tugged
a ferry-boat on a native mountain lake. Later,
aining the Royalty of Russia and Denmark, emfirst
Tyrolean troupe of that time. He organized
is own. Now to the American platform his six enng
all the musical attainments of strict training,
skill with their home music. On the stage they
and shout with the most utter abandon. Then, to
ent of the audience, they give zither and violin
>oi mimtioM n? anlendid in the conventional way.
, a hunter's song,' a festival song, and native airs
bute sparkle to the most distinctive part of the
horoughly unique and altogether delightful enteriich
is presented by the Tyrolean Alpine Singers,
e picturesque native costume they constitute an att
is like a real breath from the air of the moune
must be something in that air which is conducive
lopment of a high order too, for these alpine singmdowed
with magnificent voices. Throughout a
igram, which was entirely out of the ordinary chanainment
and in which there was not a moment of
dullness, a large audience was kept thoroughly
jntertained. The simplicity and native air of the
c is maintained without any preceptive artficiality,
; and warble and echo their national songs with an
ment and zest which it is a pleasure to see and hear.
ik Sampson Tincher, Chautauqua
Director.
Message, Purpose, Personality, are the four big
spell PLACE in the Chautauqua world: that Vision
:h holds redemptive and re-constructive power?the
ansforms the unthinking mob into a rational, cothe
MESSAGE which so actualizes the VISION
inctively say, "This is the ideal for which I have
but now I see it in all its beauty."
E, the messenger pulsing hot with passionate deives
the MESSAGE dynamic and moral direction;
rY which, subtle as the magnetism of the magnet,
rtia, elicits response, holds as with tenacles of steel,
her is a man of VISION with a MESSAGE which
4-u lnnrinw on n si asm nf nassionate PURPOSE
til i/iic 5iw?? ai>5 ? r ^
asiveness of magnetic PERSONALITY. He lives
i, with a broad horizon, where one hears the chalsnt
voices and feels the surge of mighty forces. God
Id and hope is written large across the sky. To
ith the courage to do and dare; to cheer them on
-, beautiful, blessed life is his high aim.
ing personal appearance, poetic imagination, thorand
professional training, rich, flexible, powerful
3 long and successful career in public address, pen
for the platform. His sense of humor is keen
aster in the art of using anecdote in the illuminaHe
is humorous without coarseness and entertains
g.
ronicled in Abbeville
? and Today
y 29.?On the eve to mobilize in the country and 1
Carranza's note, how one of their number had b
jve imprisoned for three hours beca
he refused to pay his employes wa
3 an^ Wltl? anothe^ fixed by the authorities in excess
commamfers about ^ Previousl" a^eed uP?n *
t was received at tne men'
oday reporting se- rlood of Ldicts.
? ' "T+ Vnc. K/i/inmo nvflptinallv imno
between American n uuo u?vv/??.v. ^
i'ampico and the ble for an American to do busir
s. of any nature in this section of
e in the form of a country," the Tampico message si
1 to President Wil- "because of restrictions placed by
in citizens residing authorities that we believe to be
lad held a mass rected primarily against Ameri
mined to lay their citizens. For a year a series of
government. They crees have made their appearai
an military officials which have been progressive in t
I decrees designed they are consistently becoming m
ible for Americans anti-American.
1 MILITARY SCHOOL |
' AT ftllPK QDttuec
ni uniuu ummhuu .
Plans For Establishment Arc Already
Under Way And School May Open
This Season.
*
4
Plans for the establishment of j a
military school at Chick Springs are
rapidly assuming definiteness, and
from correspondence and conferences
Monday morning, it now seems certain
that if a favorable term of lease
can be secured upon the Chick
Springs property, the school will be
established here this fall, with some
200 students the first session, and
possibly the summer school will be
started this summer. x
Dr. F. L. McCoy, principal of the
Riverside Military Academy, of
Gainesville, Ga., who was here Saturday
for a look at the property,- and
for a conference with GreenyfflB citizens
interested, returned home Sattxriday
night, and letters Were received
from him Monday morning by Capt.
| w. u. workman, ana major wunam
F. Robertsoh, secretary-of the Chamber
of Commerce. The letters ex*
press Dr. McCoy's confidence in the
success of the proposition,.and outlining
some of the tentative plans to get
the school on its feet. Dr. J2[cCoy expressed
his intention to return here
during the next few days. His letier
to Captain Workman indicates r that
he looks upon the'proposition as already
assured, and that he h^ir' already
taken sotae tentative steps toward
launching the school here this
fall.?Greenville Piedmont
Sell* . Confiscated Car.
Easley, S. CM May 30.?The automobile
which the town of Ease ley
confiscated last week from W. F.
Flowers, a veterinarian of that town
following his capture with a quantity
of whiskey in the car, was sold at
auction Monday. Flowers bid the
machine in, paying $275 for it.
Josh Ashley Estate.
Anderson, S. C., May 30.?Joshua
W. Ashley, of Anderson county, one
of the best known men in the State,
who died a few weeks ago, left an
estate valued at about $40,000. His
will makes his wife the sole beneficiary.
During his lifetime Mr. Ashley
distributed 2,000 acres of land
among his children.
Church Accepts Resignation.
Spartanburg, S. C., May 30.?The
congregation of the First Presbyterian
church of Spartanburg, has accepted
the resignation of Dr. J. S.
WatkinB, for twenty-four years pastor
of the church. A resolution was
adopted by the church urging Dr.
Watkins to accept the position of
pastor-emeritus with a stated annual
salary. ,
e -1 J Aon AAA f
ooia #jU|Vw
Beaufort, S. C., May 30.?W. R.
Eve, Jr., of this city, sold $30,000
worth of lettuce in northern cities
during the season just closed.
W. S. Bagwell Dead.
Laurens, S. C,. May 30.?William
S. Bagwell, former chief of police of
Laurens, and one of the best known
citizens of this city, died last Saturday,
aged 47 years.
Two Children Burn.
Dillon, S. C., May 30.?Two negro
children were burned to death in a
fire that destroyed the home of their
parents in Dillon county Monday.
Fulmer Appointed.
Columbia, S. C., May 30.?J. R.
Fulmer has been appointed the actuary
of the insurance department to
succeed J. F. Williams, recently resigned.
Attempts Suicide.
Clifton, S. C., May 30.?Miss Edith
Riddle, 18 years old of Clifton, attempted
suicide Tuesday afternoon
? by taking poison. Her condition is
critical.
I Mr. Huffh Wilson Will Go To York.
William Banks, president of the
South Carolina Press association, is
in receipt of a quaint note from Hugh
Wilson, for a generation the editor of
? the Abbeville Press and Banner. The
rolls of the State Press association
sold are not complete, but the secretary
een has been notifying all whose names
could be found on the rolls to attend
the meeting at York beginning June
of 7thirith
^r* Wilson, who was president of
the association some 25 years ago,
and is one of the unique figures in
newspaper history in this State, has
?: J. .11 J - J ?- .x:
ssi- not aitenufu meetings xcucuwy, uuu
less he writes that he expects to go to
the York.
aid, "It is gratifying to me to know that
the I am not entirely forgotten by the
di- editors of today," he writes, "The
can printing business has made such prode
gress in the last 10 or 15 years that
ice, I hardly know anything of it today,
hat It is so different from what it used to
ore be. The linotype has worked won-?
ders."?The Columbia Record.
