:.h-v.-M4 aB& i-aii 4jw- t.th .'am twin . ifi
AJLBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL. I
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THIKTY-SKVKVTU
VOL. I-
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Wednesday, May 31, 1916.
iiMlljr by Carrier or Malt,
Month, Kingly Conie. M
ILL JUESTIONED
PAPERS WERE NOT
WRITTEN Oil SAME
MAGHINEXLAIMED
1 THE WEATHER
Stenographer for -Matron &
Wood in 1913 Testifies in
Disbarment. Case; . Under
wood Man Corroborates.
BATTLE OF EXPERTS
FEATURES THE HEARING
THE WEATHKK FOHKCAST.
Denver, ("olo., May 30. New Mex
ico: Wednesday and Thursday f ilr,
not much change in temperature.
STREETS OC
ut
LOCAL, WKATHFK Itri'OKT.
For twenty. four hours, ending
6 l. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, SI degrees
minimum, 5S degrees; range, 23 de
Rrerg; temperature at 6 p. m., 78 do
grees; southwest wind; clear.
Albert S. Osborn, of New York,
Famous Student of Disputed
Documents, Takes Stand for
Two Albuquerque-Attorneys
MC,At OlfltATCM TO MQMNINO JOUIINA.Lt
Santa Fe, May 30. When tho com
mlttee having In charge the prosecu-'
tlnn of the disbarment proceedings!
against the firm nf Marron and Wood Aloutiieru,ue branch of
undertook to prove by expert test!
inony the fabrication of document In
ihc Garcia will cuse. It started some
thintf. A Hot of expert testimony Is
in prospect, the like of which has nev
er been hoard in a New Mexico court.
True, there are only two experts on
hand, but these two are sufficient to
satisfy the most exacting demand for
had been merely nn overhauling of
the old one, but the only effect Was
to strengthen her former evidence on
this subjeit, tending to prove that the
disputed documents could not have
been written on the same machine.
Vm Takes Stand.
Francis ii Wood, one of the re-
spondents, took the stand for the sole
purpose of Identifying certain re
ceipted bills which were offered to
show the periods during which a
typewriter was kept for Miss Norton,
at the time when the exchange testi
fied to by her was made. He also tes
tified that he wag practically In sole
charge of tho Garcia will case, and
that ho had dictated one of the
"standard'' papers, which was filed
In the clerk's office, March 29. 1913.
The other, which bears the data of
July 17, 1913, he suld, was not pre
pared by him, but was drawn during
his absence from Albuquerque on a
vacation In California.
Clerk Harry F. le, of the United
States court, was pluced on the stand
for the purpose of showing the date
of the receipt of transmission of this
latter paper and also of establishing
the time of the conclusion of the
Garcia trial, which was July 13, 1913
Carl (J. Holland, manager of the
tho
WITH 01 0
T
TO E SPEECHES
AT MASS MEET!
ly to the tall of country to serve in
order to avoid war. it thi can be
done Willi honor it I much l itter
tnan to ierve in win-, uki should re-
Iceive equal praise and commendation
from all right thinking people."
from Adjutant General Herring:
"Congiai illations to you mid oilier
patriotic citizens who me working
with you to secure recruits for the na-
'tlonul guard of New Mexico. I have
' fulfil in the people to the extent tout
If this tinnier ut properly placed be
fore them, I Iwlieve we can secure
I tho nu n needed within a very short
time, Good luck to you nil."
I Nestor Moiho)u SH'k?..
! Nestor Montoya told how New Mex
ico u.isw'cred with more than Its iiuoU
iu 1S62. !ew. Mexico miiKt not have
the name ?f having failed in its duly
now, he said. If neoemiry, old men
would go, ssld lie. They might not
be able to shout atraiuht. but thev
for Recruits to Serve State' ,,ld H.,0!'',1,l,'1ta,l,;:?'' mve Cl"w
Ncill It. Field read Ills spec, h. say
ing it was the tlt'st time In thirty
tne year that he had done so. .Mr.
Field said:
"This meeting is most opportune. In
the closing hours of a daj which for
more than .iifty years has been iiti
ntinlly devoted to exercises In memory
of the men who gave their lives, in
!tho laiijiiage of Mr. Lincoln, to the
end that government of the people", by
thv people, for the people, shaJI not
perish Dom the eartn,' it Ih fit and
I proper that a sober appeal to the pa
; irlotisin, of the youth of New Mexico
i oil if r i ri it ' snouiu oe ruuue, sou iritu iiiwm1 oi up
ly oubcluecl by Gol. belters,; who deeply realm.- the conditions
Prominent Men Tell of Needs
on Mexican Border; State
wide Campaign Started,
NEILL B. FIELD IS
PRINCIPAL SPEAKER
Man Who Undertakes to In
terrupt Program Is Prompt-
Organizer of Rally,
Hundreds of persons massed last
night at Second street and Central
avenue for the meeting held to en
courage enlistment In the New Mexico
Cnder- national guard, which is In danger of
FRENCH YIELD
Tl MILES OF
T,
VERDUN PRQN
RERUN CLAIMS
Paris Admits Loss of Three
Hundred Meters of Ad
vanced Ti enches; Bom
bardment Diminishing,
AUSTRIAIMS BEGIN
ANOTHER DRIVE
Italians Report Positions Held
Under Hot Fire; Russians
Repulse Foes on Eastern
Front,
V MuaNlhl JOURNAL PtclAL LIAMO WIBtl
French positions on a front of ap
proximately two miles extending from
the Bouthern ridge of Le .Morte lloni
BRITISH WIN BIG
VICTORY IN SUDAN
mi N.N. JCOKkAL MClAL ltltO WIHII
London, May 30. Further reports
on Hie fighting last week in the Sudan
111 which I'olonel Kelly's forces de
feated smne 3, oihi troops of All Dinar,
snllin nf Imrfur, show the lirltlsh
victory to have been greater than at
first announced, according to nn offi
cial statement fodav, which says:
"The completeness of the viclorv
er the sultan of Durt'ur on May S:i
Is confirmed. AH the sultan's best
troops and column octet's were present.
Most uf the latter were accounted for
or have iiuue surrendered. The dis
armament nf the tribesmen is proceed
ing Mxllsfni lorliy, Several thousand
rifles and a la rue nuaiitlly of iimmii
'lition Already have been handed In.
"till the morning following the bat
tle our aeroplanes threw bombs on a
larne body of men fleeing from Kl
Kasher with All Dinar. The latter
was lust "ecu at the bead of a follow
ing of only ll.iioo nu n. He was faced by
,1 Journey of one and a half days
across a waterless desert before he
could reach (lelilicl Man."
COLONEL MAKES
STRONG APPEA
L
FOR UNIVERSAL
ARM
y
s
wood Typewriter Company, next lden- losing Its Identity ns a state organlza-
tified certain original records taken i tion unless 300 recruits Join the color
from his office showing the rental of Miilckly. Prominent public speakers,
ft typewriter to Marron and Wood in . of Albuquerque, spoke calling upon the
January. 1913. and the exchange of I youth to do their part toward pre
trial; machine for unother one onjserviiu the reputation of the state.
June f, 1911. Incidentally, during the Herbert Nichols, a groccryinun, '
course of Mr. Holland's testimony, it ' caused momentary excitement when
wo., brought out that a. aomplete ref- be Interrupted Frank A. Hubbell. who
make as plain as may be the demands
of those conditions.
"We are told that the state of New
Mexico neeus at once Sou men who
eMail be ready, If necessary, to otter
up their lives In her service. It Is said
that Now Mexico has disappointed the
hopes of our fellow citizens of oilier nie to (.umt.r, village northwest . ","" '', " """'"
mies; it Is even said that Albuuuer- rdu.i nave lu,i cap the Mtual.on carefully
o,u hus failed ol her duty to ,tli tn Hermans, according to the latest I.. . . .
official communication from Herlln. ! MUHuAN LULLtL UN
USE OF MEAT MAY BE
LIMITED IN ENGLAND
V MOHNIN JOUAI. IPfCltk LJ4D WISH
London, May 3". There Is now be
lieved to be a possibility that the peo
ple of the Ifritish Isles will be placed
on meat ratUils.
Capt. Krnest Prettymuti. parllamen
tary under-sccictary for tho Uard of
trade, said In the house of commons
today that although there was no lie-
tttal shortage, the existing IiIrIi prices
'arose from a deficiency due to the re
quirements of the forces In the field.
Roosevelt Declares Navy and
Regular Army Are Not
Enough to Defend Honor of
Nation,
PROFESSIONAL
PACIFISTS SCORED
Speaker Says They Are "Tools
of Sensual Materialists
Without Ideals and Seeking
Fatted Ease,"
The government, he added, was re-
THROWN AT HOOSKVEI.T
mat i.'u oi cMuence. , - lh .hah,. , wis sneaking. Col. D. u. M. Sellers.
The greater part of the day j ester-; ,,Vp,.y machine manufactured is kept i chairman, told him to stop. He con
day was consumed by the expert for!hv th- manufacturers from the time I tinned. Th-colonel Jumped from the
the machin lesvea the fnctorv until piaiiorm, made up oi two uai-oeti
It Is sold or otherwise disposed of.
Mr. Holland also testified regarding
what ho terms the. "plus minus,"
character which appears on one of the
disputed documents, , and w hich he
wi uit a. oif) . ,. icomini
His evidence , VT'"' " i Jailed, charged
AfU'rnoon Session.
tho committee, who, armed with a.n
imposing array of scales, measures
and lenses, discoursed learnedly on
tho anatomical characteristics of
typewritten documents,, and gave tt ns
his fixed opinion that six documents
Introduced in evidence were written
on tho same typewriter
wa practically concluded at the closei
TrtJav the rsoorident. came to'the! ,he conclusion of Mr.
v,i .hQ n. Min. i,.e. evidence the court took a recess un- i
mgthe foundation lor the evidence of"' sf,Pr thp! MemorlnJ services at the
their expert, Albert S. Osborn, and np.tery were concluded, and it was
then spent the hour and a half of the "early 4 o clock wherr the hearing
afternoon session of court asking i resumed. O. N. Marion took the
merely the preliminary questions nee-J ta"d to identify the paper written in
essary to qualify the main witness. At July. nd the notice, which he had
the hour of adjournment this after- nictated to Miss Norton after the con
noon, Mr. Osborn hnd not been askud j ulnnlon of the trial of the Garcia ense,
a single question regarding his opinion nd during -Mr. .Wood's absence in
ns to the disnutcd documents in this i California. Mr. Marron was not
csse. "H ws merel'-girding up ' his j cross-examined.
k.ins, taking a long breath and get-1 Arherf S. Osborn,' tire handwriting
ting readv to testify. It is safe to say i expert of tho respondents, wns next
thai the typewriter question will be I placed on the stand, and at 5:30
completely disemboweled and minute- j o'clock, the hour of adjournment,
ly (Vmected. ' Judge Wright had Just concluded tha
I Trtutk Full of Tools). ' ' i questions, preliminary to his cxaml-
nauon, regaratng me aispuiea nncu
ments. ' Mr. Osborn gave his residence
as Montclair, N. Y., a suburb of New
i York City, his age as DS, and his oe
witness chair, for ready use.
trunk which he moderately calls
v.'agons, and rushed through the crowd J
with '"apt. Fred l'ornoff a close sec-'
ond. Colonel Kellers pushed the man.
through the crowd and into the arras
jot Patrolman A. W. Yerka, who was
I coming toward him. Nichols was
with causing a dls-
iturbfincc. He refused to leave the Jail
Holland's w1' l" ''J"1: 1
i oi. vt ... m i l. 10111 iiiji- nil inn
Santa Fe railway in New Mexico, and I
state;). If these charge are Hue, it
behooves us to bestir ourselves and to
remove the stain of these just ret lec
tions upon us. How does the matter
stand. Are wc have we been re
miss. If so, let us be so no longer.
No thoughtful man can doubt for a
moment mat not on,y 300 but 3.00U
and more such men can be had
whenever the. necessity for tho
flee Is made manifest to them,
filial! .Number .t.sKi-ol.
"To me litis been delegated the hun
or, and i esteem it an honor, to ex
plain the need by which our state is
co n fro nt tHl and tho character of serv
ice which is demanded by that need.
The honor, as every earthly honor that
is worth tne having, carries with it an
obllationlhe obligation to be rank,
sincere and plaln'spokeii.
"New Mexico has been asked t
In addition the Teutons ugain have
pressed forward In the l rlaumotit
wood, northeast , of Verdun, and add
ed to their line in thu eastern purl of
it.
These gains, made during tho vi
cious fighting of Monday, have been
in oart admittcil hi I'urts. which has
saerl- j reported tho loss of !Oo 'meters of
advanced trenches northwest of Cu-
BEING TAKEN DOWN;
New York. May 30 The J. p
Mor
gan collection In the Metropolitan j
Kansas City. Mo., May 30.
I An open pocket knlf wan thrown
t- at ltoosevelt here todav u hla
motor car turned into Twenty
third street durlnn- the Memorial
day parade. The knlfn strttck tha
rear of the automobile and was
found lying In the slrest
niiereH and retirement from slmllur
Dr. Kwcll. the expert for the com
mittee, carried most of the tools of
hi trade in his Dockets. Mr. Osborn,
nn tlw. fitha. Una ulttimr Ittr the!
.. iCimntirin na evrlmtnei- nf fiiieulionprl
n. tonaii i ' - v
documents, which occupation he said
he had followed for more than twenty-five
years. He said he had made
a, special study of disputed typewrit
ing, and In the line of that study had
paid particular attention to the vari
ous makes of typewriters and the
a
"bag'' filled with implements, charts.
photographs, papers, books and a mis
cellaneous assortment of matter for
reference in connection with his evi
deric. Dr. Fwell vPMterdav unoke of meas-
tirmvnts of one thirty-sixth of an inch ! method of their manufacture. He had
in reaching a conclusion regarding specially studied the Lnderwood
disputed documents. Mr. Osborn this i typewriter at the time It was first
afternoon produced one instrument j placed on the market, and had made
alone which he declared to be capa-1, some suggestions for the improvement
We of measuring one five-hundred j of the machine. His study of the me
and twelfth of an inch. Dr. Ewell , chanlcal construction of typewrit
yesterday expressed something of Mors, he, said, had been conducted sole
tontempt for photography as an aldpy with a. view to aiding him in his
in estimating measurements in type-; profession of examining disputed type.
written papers a method in which
Mr, Osborn apparently places much
reliance Mr. Osborne countered to.
day by intimating that one of Dr.
Swell's instruments' can't be much
sood for the purpose, for which it was
intended.
Counsel for respondents tonight ex- ; certaining the time when
pressed the opinion that Mr. Osborn document was written.
will be on tho stand all day tomor
fow. a is reasonably certain that Dr.
Ewell will be introduced again for the
writing.
Mr. Osborne said that no two makes
of typewriter are equipped with ex
actly the same style of type, and also
that some change of style are made
bv the manufacturer, a fact which he
declared was important to know in as-
a disputed
Vitncws In Big discs.
Like Dr. Kwcll, Mr. Osborn has
4ual,rt...l ou am ,.v..r.i'4 In ft lnrcri. num.
Purpose of explaining or strengthening; bB f ,,.,', ltnd wf(j(.,y Uno,Vn
-e testimony lie na airenuy B e... , amnni! those mei
There is one instrument that both ex
perts use in common, and that is a
protractor. In view of tha effect that
their evidence has hud in protracting
'he prcBvnt hearing, that instrument
should be adopted as the symbol of
the profession.
Non-export . livltk-iH-e.
While on the stand yesterday, Dr.
kwell was shown six documents, two
which were admittedly written in
case, among those mentioned iiy
him being the Rlce-Patriek will case,
the MoNamarn, dynamiting case, and
the Lilly sut marine tout investigation
before congress. He. testified that hts
activities as an expert witness had
extended over "thirty-seven states of
the union.
.Mr. Osborn also stated that he Is
the uulhor of a work on disputed
documents, and volumes of the work
were shown in court. He tald that he
'he office of Marron and Wood, the;nf!() made a special study of photugra-
other four being In distiute, apd his
evidence was. positive that all six
Papers had been drawn on the sumo
typewriter. p,y non-expert wlinesse?,
t was sought this morning to prove
that as to two of the documents, at
'pa'. the ones drawn in the office of
Marron and Wood, this conclusion
'ould not possibly be correct.
Miss Elizabeth C. Norton, .stenog
rapher tor Miiernn nn U'ka.1 from
January. 1913, to August, 1913, was!
ho fust witness for the respondent.!
n testified ihnt uha wrntn from flic-I
t'Jtion both the papers referred to by
"e attorneys as the "standard" docu
"!'. She did not recall the date of
jntiiij either, but from other evidence
Jt as shown that one of the docu
"JfritM ws drawn In March and the
''Her in Ju!y lm JIhg Norton gaid
jnat when she was first employed by
") firm, a typewriter was eecured for
M-iUi,e; thal ,ms typwrlter was kept
,al" in Mlly when, fin account
the bard action of the keys, it was
'Kitanged for another machine of the
?e make. There was another ste
"??raphi;r and another machine in the
"'e. but she never used the other
iJZ t'X('f'u' on one or two special
nSions. on cross-examination. At-
rney Wilson attempted to prove that
Mmi hav ,,cen P"lble that in
th. , an cehunge of typewriters at
J'lime mentioned by the witness, it
a veteran of the Spanish-American
war, was the first speuker introduced
by Colonel Sellers, The point had
been reached when the name of New
Mexico was at stake, said Captain
Held. The state had been invaded bv
foreigners and its citizens murdered.
It was New Mexico's duty, more than
any other state's,' to prevent recur
rence of Hie raid and. if opportunity
eamo. to avenge. He expressed the
hope, however,; that war would not
tome.
Takes lsue With Fall,
Captain Held took issih with Sena-,
tor A. H. Fall in his excusing New
Mexico's failure. There was no excuse,
he said. Senator Full said, according
to Mr. Jteid, that if actual war existed
New Mexico would respond. The call
for recruits should be received as
patriotically as the call to actual war,,
he said. j
Captain Ileid pointed out that it
would take several months of hard
training to fit young men for war in.
Mexico or anywhere else. 1
Felix J'.aca appealed to the so-called
Spanish-Americans to show they were,
true Americans. Young men are en- j
listing for border service every day;
mid they are deserving of all the hon
or tho people of the suite cudd give
them,, said he.
George S. Klock said this was a time ,
when citizens should be soliciting the I
slate and nation to serve them rather
than have the state and nation solicit
the citizens to give their service
What would the country think if
New Mexico was not nolo to furnish
its quota? Frank AJ Hubbell demand
ed. It would think' New Mexico was
not fit to be a state, he said. Mr. Hub-,
bell urged the young men to "come
through," saying two of his sons had
signified their willingness to go.
Major Kuppcj Spr-ass
give of its best Done and brawn, of
its best blood and bruin, a relatively
small number of its young men to this
service. The occasion of this call,
if one chuoso to look to the occasion, ,
is that the soil of New Mexico has
been invaded and its citizens mur
dered in their beds; its children klllud
by banditti from the south.
"Note, if you pleuse, that this in
vasion was not thu act of t pubite
enemy, ivus not done in pursuance of
I the plans of an organised govri niiuuit, 1
i but was tho work of men who have :
thrown off all restraints of law and
who recognize no
will of their bandit
government has pursued those bandits
upon the soil of our sister republic,
and has thereby created friction which
the most optimistic of us must recog
nize may lead to war,
"Now. in my opinion, the people or
New Mexico, in common with the peo
ple ot the tuition, desire no war with
Mexico or with any other power on
the face of this earth, and so for the
first time In the history of this guv-
I positions to the south of the road be
'tween Hethineourt and (.'ittuiereft. Ber
, lin nys tho Germans captured 1,313
prisoners, including several Bluff of
ficers. I . llonihnrilinciit Grows U-ss.
I Around 1-e Murt Homme and Cit
j nib res a. violent bombardment Is still!
' in progress but there has been a dltn
Jntilion it the intensity of the fire, (,f
the big j;mix northeast of Verdun.
Since the fighting of Monday there
apparently have been 110 Infantry at
tacks on either side of the Metise.
! The Austrians have begun another
attack against the Italians in the Po
slna region of Jtaly. southwest of Po
slna and farther north along the upper
ranches of the Astlco river, tin the
Anstro-Itallan border. Month of Po-
tilim 11c flu M u iir.M.iiffl.l .,.. tlinl. stf- I
.-....., .,..., , .... ... .
fcrisivp, with a bombardment but, ac-
cording to Home, the Italians, after j
it desperate Ml niggle against the AUB-
Museum of Art was closed to the pub.
lie today preparatory to stripping the
galleries of the priceless works of art
that have been sold during the pant
year. Tho paintings, ivories and an
tique animals remain, (hough there
MO.S.S. JOU.N.l. .c, t4... !.., -
Kansas City. Mo., May 30. Uni
versal training based upon univer
sal service wm urged upon thi
are rumors that the $13,000,000 worth 1 1""'" ;no "on, PK Trt'c-ti""
. 1 '.. , Loosevelt in tt Memorial dav address.
(delivered here today nn "a message to
of bronzes, furniture, porcelains ond
tapestries that have been sold repre
sent only the beginning of Hi dlspotul
of the entire collection.
FIVE THOUSAND
iURN AIRIER !
! t
I Illl I
U Jltu HILL
V, Lt,.ti,m ol,ri;ln l"f'i""-.v. retained their positions. executive 111
' t : .!:? TXIT Bankers, Road Officials andfe'S
(Continued un I'tige I.Ik'H )
NEW DESIGNS 0
SMALL GRANGE
PLANNED
Faces of Dimes, Quarters,
and Half Dollars Will Be Altered,
If.. f ' . T - f r m
Maojr Kuppe, ut 53 years, has set fOI r II St 111116 OltlCe Oy
an example for young men. lie warn-
ed them to follow him, he said. Ma-
Ijor Ituppe will be at the. armory this
week to enlist recruits.
Major Kuppe said that "little Wil
lie" would bo as safe in the border
camp as lie was at home, posmbly
safer. He would keep out of nils-
chief there. The only wuy he can , ,.iNimiicinliiiD,i
hurt himself is through ever-eating, Washington. May 30. -Dimes, nuur-
said the major. The major pramed , ,,,rs uml halr dollars 'of new design
Lompanj us cooks. will be minted after July l. Secretary I that lie did
.Men nave iotd Major kPPV McAdoo announced today. For the Me xican
tvnen it comes to ngnuiig, can me. fil.. ,iIn ,,,., .. ,,hni, wii.
sector, and In tho Hugana valley at
Ospodaletto, the Austrians are heav
ily bombarding the Italian positions.
I!iissI-::ih Kepuise For.
On the Russian front the Germain
essayed an offensive northeast of
A ugustinhof, but were driven back to
their trenches by the Russians. The
Austrians in Galicia mil with a mo-!
incntary success near Gliadki, driving
the Russians fit'm a position and cap
turing It. The Russians, however,
yesterday counter-attacked and recap
tured the post. Near Roulchache tho
AilstriaiiH attempted an offensive, but ,
it was put down by Russian fire. I
Turkish Front Quiet,
On their front In Asiatic Turkey
the Russians reported the situation
unchanged, (.'oimtinitlnople says near
l'flalie, near the Kut-FI-Amara. re
gion, the Turks silenced two Ll'ltish
guns n ikI took prisoners in a r.tirprlso t
attack. :
The Germans are with the Hulgar
ians in the advance into Greek M ace-'
donia. Tho invasion, according to Jler
lln, was made ns n protection ugulnst
h siirprihc attack w hich the entente j
allies were planning.
600 ARMED MEXICANS
an Americans," before civil wnr vet
eran of the north nd the confeder
acy. Appealing, ha explained, to "tho
spirit of thoroughgoing Americanism
in all our people," the former presi
dent declared that thoe who asuert
that there is no danger of the Vnlted
State ever being attacked are either
ignorant or forgetful of tho multitude
of examples which ahow how Interna
tional conflicts arise, and thnt "It Is
likely that If wa are not
strong enpugh to tnaiinnin our right.
Inchidtnr the iirMt of th. Mn'nl
I'ocmue,-' th, rillH-ii fcTi'.-H wtii
subject to nggresrioiii which It wou.d
, be obliged to resent, or eUe abandon
Its nntlorial greatness. ',
"The people must choose aa their
and legislative' ledr at
Colonel Roosevelt unlit.
, iiutit. wii.t-.uio M"iut..mrn n LnintMv Bfln. ,T,- h.T
Men and Women From All ; ,,T'l:n,w;',0 th,,ri or irovertiment M fci
... .. , . ,r . j fr as the pole from the pork-barrel
Walks of Life Pay Last '"-"Tr""'1 th'M' w,hciier the pork-
... v.,..,-,,,..,. .ii'ii. t Iff.OlliUl.
political or sectional standpoint; men
who look forward mid not back; men
who fain the factM us they actually
i are.
! "After yds war we shall ace a new
-Europe; a F.urope energetically de
veloping new social nnd economic
means of meeting new problems.
Modern Piiiuiplos Nmsary.
"If, under these circumstances, we
take refiiRe in formulae dug out from
the wreckage of principles tu the past,
instead of developing these principles
so as to meet tha future, we shall be
as foolish un If we were to arm our
soldiers with flintlocks and send them
o-rniimt an army possessing machine
guns, high power rifles tnd modern
artillery.
"The (line for flintlock theories of
statesmanship in this country is past."
Colonel Roosevelt said his address
was directed "with equal emphasis to
the soul qualities of tho men who fol
lowed Grunt and of the men who fol
lowed Lee," but that he made no ap
peal "to the memory of the cornier-
ti"act
Tribute,
j tt MOINIfll JOKHNAL IPiaU LftAltO W,M
I St. Paul, Minn, May 3d. More
than 5,000 persons paid tearful trib
ute at the bier of James J. Hill, "em
pire bulder" of the northwest, here
today,
J. M. ('.ruber, operating vice pres
ident of the Great Northern railway,
was the first to enter the Summit nv
eniiii mansion where the body lay In a
plain I lack casket on a w hite pedes
tal. Just behind him was Harry Kelt
lier, a section hand.
And so it went. Hankers, road of
ficials and men and women from all
Wulks of life filed through the man
sion and past the bier in the shroud
ed seini-darkiiess of the drawing
room. Giay-luiii'ed veterans, many of
whom had seen the great northwest
j spring up under Mr. Hill's touch,
j broke Into tears as the silent line
I weuoeii ns wuy pnsi illc cassei
nrnAiM-fi . K f r i . ( e r Ti i in . ,r ,.., nil SO l-,nt it'll m.iii.i . . " ' " u P" " w."tw
ntrUn I tU AUtlUbb HIVtHlfUv minutes in llawoik-a-da'y mlv- jJU,V' . ....
(lUos to pay homage to Mr. Hill's mem- .,Th, , " ,f . ureM' .
:n uanxiNi ji,u.u nc,i. Liio imi i ory as a result of a proclamation by j,,,,,,,.. i ,,. ,,-.1.,,!, ,i,,... v,i
that 600 aiined Mexicans are en- i The cessation of business and In-
nhv as an aid to his profession. 1 be
identification of documents as having
been written on the same or different
machines, he paid, Is not always pos
sible. He gave ns Identifying char
acteristics the design and stzo of the
letters, departures from perfection, or
the ideal result, imperfection in the
characters themselves, and the rela
tion of the characters to adjacent
characters. The principle of identifi
cation, he said, is that habitual char
acteristics should he compared.
TheDay in Congress
Mr. Osborn produced , In
number of measures and standards
which were explained by him, after
which adjournment was taken
9:30 o'clock tomorrow morning.
AUSTRIAN PRISONERS
ILL-TREATED,
How are they going to fight when
they don't know how? tho major want,
ed to know. Did they know how to
protect themselves, to dig trenches,
how to handlo a military rlf 1" : how
to advance in the face of an enemy"
Capt. Fred l'ornoff, of the rough
riders, read several telegrams;. Hero
they are:
from former Onvernor H. J. Hugcr
man: Telegram 'From HaRvrinau.
Your meeting tonight of very great
est importance. This is a -very im
portant time, in my opinion that New
I Mexico has the opportunity to demon
be efrected in these pieces. The an
nouncement discloses that the half
dollar hus fallen practicUUy into dis
use. The new design was selected
with th hope of i storing It Into niort
general circulation. It. was indicated.
Cnder the new coinage, each piece
will be of different design. The half
clollur and dime models were made by
Adolph A. Weinman and the quarter
by Hermoii A McNeil. Moth are
sculptors of note.
The face of the half dollar bears a
full length of Liberty, with a
background of the American flag
flying to the breeze. Tho goddess is
I'unipe,, across tho Rio Grande from
Santa Klena, nil Isolated hamlet about
eighty mile south of hero, were
brought lure today by K. K. White,
a resident of Marathon. White said
not know whether tho
urn belong to any faction or
were wandering marauders, but lie as
serted that residents of St. Klena, who
seemed somewhat alarmed, told him
camp fires bad been perceptible
the Mexican .side .of thu river
uboiit a week.
dustrv will be at p. in. at th
ment the funeral service begins at the
home. The signal for the general
tribute will be the blowing of factory
whistles for one minute nt 1:,'9 p. in.
Throughout the north wet country
the trains of his road, the Great Nor
thern, vvill also pause for the same
length of time, 'while the Burlington
and N'oii hern Pacific systems will pay
on i similar homage
for i The result will be a flve-mlnute
i I tribute from St. Paul to (he Pacific
court, a intrm- rest of th country that 'striding forward to the dawn of a new
!she is worthy of the honor recently clay, carrying laurels and oBU
! hi.utowe.l noon us. The eves of the branches, symbolic of civil and mili-
u",tl I nation ure on u. I know this. I have j tary glory. The reverse aide shows
i recently been in New York and other I an eagle perched high upon a muiin
: eastern cities and 1 know that the i tain crag, wings unfolded. Growing
lueonlo are intensely interested in tho i " n r"l " "ie roe in a sapling
. Mevtean situation even more dceDlv M'f mounted Vine,
P. A M Interested than In the European war
(Annociafrd Vrrt' CorwixMidnift.)
Vienna, May 4. Seventeen thousand
Austro-Hungarian prisoners of war,
out of about 80.000 confined id the
camps at Orenburg, eastern Russia,
have died owing to the absence of
good sanitary measures, bad food, lacg
symbolic of Amer
ica.
The design of the twenty-five cent
piece Is intended to typify the awak
ening of the country to lie own pro
tection. Secretary MrAdoo's an
nouncement stated.
ni !.,. . h,. .,.t, .1.: liui:i l, a l nu-ltMiKiii HHUir, in
so. The president has honored us by j
L'ivimr us the fust opportunity to
I know that thousands of nu n from
'tho far eastern states are ready and
'eager to come here and help the reg
j ulars protect the border for us if we
fall to furnish thut help ourselves, j
Military uuthorillcs hero could lint 'in which thousands of employes and
confirm White 'a report, it being ; ft lends will share.
pointed out thut there Is tin American
patrol stationed at tjlat point. I'
Company K of the Texas national!1
guard left here today aboard motor I
trucks for Terllngua. Tex., ninety I
miles south, wiiere they will assist In j
the border patrol.
0,000 TO WALK IN
PREPAREDNESS PARADE
KVMOR IS NOT
tf MOHNIsa JOURNAL fC,AL CKASIO Wlltlj
Seattle, Wash., May 30, Organizers
jof a preparedness parade to le held
CtlVDN WF.KiHT : bern June 10 announced todny that
I 30,000 marchers would be in line.
30. No report of - "
of Mexicans en- MIXfTF.RS OPPOSIT
Coahuila border PLANS FOIJ I'HtK KSSIOX
Kl Pami, Mat-
any large bodies
camped along the
had been received bv milltarv author
ities here today, snd little disposition, Portland, Ore., May 30.- Ministerial
was shown to credit the report that ' associations of tho Methodist. Vresby
600 men arc encamped on the Rlojtcrian and Kaptlst, churches have
Grande, eighty
t Hon , Tex.
miles south of Atura-
eonie to the nation's help in this great
of clothing and exposure to the cold, criljiB j, is a splendid opportunity,
according to report No. 5.8 , ! of the , Kurtnermore. it is for us the acid
American embassy at reirogiuu, uuv
ed March IS.
HKXATE.
' m j., ssiou.
UOtSE.
' Mteoli , """"""Ion of naval
bill.
until 11
Oil Resolution Approved.
Washington. May 80. A resolution
directing the secretary of the interior j
in reoort on the advisability of gov-i
eminent acquisition of all oil proper
ties in the country by condemnation
or purchase, and another resolution to
have the bureau of mines collect sta
tute relating to production, manu
facture wid marketing of petroleum
and Us products, were approved today
by a house sUb'.'OiumiU'.
test. If we fall now it will take years
to prove the bitter denunciation un
true." Governor Semis Wftve.
From Governor McDonald:
To the good peopl" of Albuyuer-
shown stepping toward the country if
gateway, bearing upraised a shield
from which the covering is being
drawn. The right hand bears an olive
branch of peace. Above the head Is
the word "Liberty" and below the
feet "1S1."
The reverse bears a figure of an
eagle in full flight., wings extended,
and the inscriptions "Cnlted States of
America" and "F.. Plurlbiis L'num."
Roth the half dollar anil the qnar
que: We owe much to friends undj,rs bear the phrase "In God Wc
family, 'flie honor of our country may
demand all. To do one's whole duty
under nil olrennistaneeu requires the
highest order of courage. Those who
are obedient sons and considerate
brothers make loyal sweethearts and
good lunsbaude, ana respond pioiopt-
the dime Is simple.
a wingeu cape, la
Trust
The design of
Liberty, with
shown on the fureside and on the re
verie ia a design of a bundle of rods
and a battleaxe, symbolical nt unity,
"Wherein lies the nation' Dtremjtb."
SENATOR URGES
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
j placed themselves on record. It was
, announced today, against the pre.
jparcdiiosH parade arranged to bo held
hero on the night of June a.
llijf Storm liagoa.
Memphis. Tenn., May 90. The
""""" j wind and rain tnrm which swept this;
m mmiM jowui kkiu hum it, j city and the country within a rudiusl
New York, May 30. Cnlte, States i of thirty miles tarty today, reached a I
Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman of illl- j velocity of sixty to seventy-two miles'
nols delivered a plea for America to i an hour, almost equaling1 the record,
remain neutral in the war and to pre- of seventy-f ie miles un hour, made
pare for a league of nations for coin- j In March, lsOl. Wires were prostrat-;
moil defense, in a Memorial day ad-jed, especially to the west. No cos-j
Grand Arniv t Grant's uoJtlea were reported to the police.
The senator said that a !
Sinn Fein Head (y-ntcnci-d.
Dublin, Maj 30 (via I-ondon.) ,
Professor John M icN'elll. president of
tho Sinn Fein volunteers, who last
week was found guilty of complicity
in the Irish revolt, his been sentenced
to life imprisonment but sentence haa
not been confirmed.
dresB to tho
tomb today.
league of nations for mutual defense
against an outlaw power, once culled
a dream, now is a potential reality.
He urged Americans to prepare for
tho third Hague convention and
"throw the mighty Influence of our
country into the greatest issue of the
civilized world."
said. "The wuy In which we now ds-
cide will largely determine whether wm
I a re to go forw ard in righteousness nnd
; power or backward in degradation,
innd weakness. Wo are face to faca
with the elemental facta of right and
wrong, of force or feebleness. Ac.
cording to the spirit in which ,ws faca
there facta and govern our actions,
we .dial) determine; whether in tho
future w shall enjoy u growing na
tional life or Buffer a lingering na
tionul decay."
Colonel Roosevelt urged the nation
to "beware of tho false prophets" -professional
pniifisla, who, he de
clared, do not servo high ideals. "In
actual practice," ho said, "the profes
sional pacifism la merely the tool of
the sensual materialist who hus m
ideals, whoso shriveled aoul is wholly
absorbed in automobiles, and the mov
ies, and money-making, and in tho
policies of the, cash register and the
stock ticker, and the life of fatted
ease."
Kwfs False) FlfHihrU.
Two years ago those "falsa pro
phets" said there, would never be an
other war, tho colonel ald, adding:
us not be misled again." Even
should peace come In Kurope tomor
row, he declared, it ought not to uf
fect American policy of preparedness.
Colonel Rootevelt reiterated hla
views that the American fleet should
h;ve been mobilised at thu beginning;
of the war, "a competent man put at
the head of the navy department,
and the urrny prepared.
Intcriiutltmat Ihity.
"T believe in international duty," he
slid. " The duty of a nation
like ours cunnot be considered aa if
we stood alone in the worldj W are
one of a community of nations and
the effective condemnation of wrong
doing by thut community la tho great
force of civilization. If we ahirk that
part of our duty to condemn, and. If
necessary, more than condemn, th
wrong', we are aiding to break down
tho force of the public opinion of man.
kind in the support of juatlco and
righteousness, and with that we ar
helping to destroy the forces of peacu
and Justice which prevent others from
doing wrong towards us and thus
serve to preserve our peace and safe-
ty." ... ,
Pointing out that the canal son
