iftalf
ffetel
, mm
VOLUME XIX
COLUMBIA, ADAIR COUNTY, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MAY 31. 1916.
NUMBER 31'
SATgRDAY'S R. R, MEETING.
A Plea for Quicker Transportation.
A Railroad Now or Never.
Mabbingai Mt. Carmel.
The railroad meeting last Saturday,
was nob an overflow gathering due to
the fact that farmers were unusually
busy, bub it showed the spirit of united
effort and a determination to win.
Several thousaud dollars were secured
Mainly due to marease in original
fieefces and if we are nob badly de
rived $8,000 more will guarantee the
Jpwpoaition. This week will be used
in securing this amount and in trans
Bering subscriptions from the first to
the present proposition. Fifteen or
twenty men from and near Columbia
are now actively in the work and a
good number of active men from near
ly every section of the county have
subscription papers and doing all with
in their power to make the road a cer
tainty. Next Saturday is the time to
report and to determine whether or
not we will meet the proposition. Dr.
Hunter and associates are bound to
know, at once, whether or nob we
want them to build the road for they
have another proposition which they
are holding off for our decision which
they will accept if this is nob closed at
an early date.
There is no chance for any one to
lose on the present proposition and if
we get the amount required by Satur-
Jip, Iay a contract will be made and work
started at once. The inportance of
every honorable effort to secure the
v ?-sum needed should impress every .man
who desiresdevelopment of our . com
mercial resources, who wants opportu
nity for the rising generation or in
creased values for the present. "When
the road has been built, when its ef
fects are shown on Columbia and
Adair county, or we should say, this
entire section of the State, no one will
regret any effort or expense given to
secure ib. If we fail to meet bhe pres
ent proposition it would be the most
serious mistake we have ever made.
It's failure would not only hold this
section to the old order of doing, but
would paralyze ambition and effort
for a long and indefinite period and
leave us far worse off than if we had
made no effort to secure it. It is too
important for. any good citizen to
withhold liberal aid.
Everybody should help and help
now -while we have an opportunity to
succeed. In the closing, after the
bulk of the people have contributed,
eight thousand dollars is a considera
ble sum to raise, but it must be done
or we lose. Five men of this town
gives ten thousand dollars to the fund
and several others are oh record for a
thousand each. The citizens of Co
lumbia will do a liberal part and ask
only that the county people give rea
sonable help. The work is now on in
earnest, the closing day is next Satur
day. We win or lose, close the con
tract or drop it like a hot iron after
that date. If jou have given you had
better increase your subscription a
reasonable amount to make it a cer
tainty. It is not safe to offer and risk
the smallest amount that might possi
bly secure ib, bub to put up the fullest,
you are willing to give rather than
lose ib. If too much should be sub
scribed your pro rata part will be re
turned) if too little is offered you fail.
Every body should get busy, keep busy
and report in Columbia next Saturday
at one o'clock.
No road, no pay is a safe proposi
tion, and no road no progress for this
section is a certainty.
Mr. N. M. Tutt and Mr. G. e! Eeed
have formed a partnership and will
engage in the real estate business
They are both reliable gentlemen and
will know how to handle the business
that will come to them. They will
office in the same room, in the Jones
block, now occupied by Mr. Eeed. A
little later The Hews will contain an
ad showing their manner of doing
jauatoegg. This partnership will not
'-"igGerfere with Mr. Beed's insurance
business.
Dr. J. T. Jones, who recently moved
fro bis home, near Columbia, to
Gleavllle, was in town Friday. A
News man asked him when he would
.return to his home near this place.
"Oh, I don't know; the old woman is
Mii when we are out there and I am
jwkdjwhen here; so I don't know what
we will do."
Mr. J. C. Strange and sen, Sanford,
0tOh& three catfish tate Thursday af
ttoieea. They metsured, 21, 23, and
tfinabse J length. They weighed
Burkesville, Ky., May 28, 1916.
Editor Adair County News:
In the days when Augustus Ceasar
was master of many Kings, outside of
this, there were two things In his life
that perpetuated his memory, "The
Star in, the East" and an appellation
that he so often applied to himself, as
the "Master Eoad Builder," lb was
necessary for the continuity of the do
mains over which, he so boldly x held
sway, for a more perfect development
of same along commercial and military
lines, to have these different domains
and possessions connected by a net
work of good roads, such roads as a
Ceasar could build, that stand to-day
as an everlasting monument to the
master man, in speaking of Gaul,
"there is no good country without
good roads." At the dawn of our Chris
tian development a Pagan Emperor to
give us this lesson should nob be so
easily forgotten.
Good roads tend toward a greater
development along all lines, especially
along the lines of least resistence,
both from a physical and economic
standpoint, I do not suppose any one
will take issue with me for advocating
good roads, no more than for the prop
er training and development of our
children, the only .possible difference
would be in the modes or manner, all
tending to the same goal, some would
prefer the Public Schools to private,
and while others technical to academ
ic, same as road building,, some cry for
the Coffey law, the King Drag, some
private subscription, others hallooing
let the State and Federal Government
do it, some lets Bond her, so we all
agree so far as the roads are concerned.
Columbia is the best inland town in
the State and Adair one of the best
counties, the citizenship of either is
unsurpassed, the only thing that' has
kept Columbia and Adair off the map
has been the lack of transportation fa
cilities, that alone will keep any coun
try back or any people be whom they
may. The Eapid Trabsit Company
has taken a step inthe'right direc
tion, and should be more than
commended or the gopd work they
have done. The next step ami the cul
minating, is the railroad.
I have just returned from Columbia
and spent a most pleasant week with
my many friends, and while there it
was my more than good fortune to see
a good deal of my old friend and ac
quaintance, Dr. W. Godfrey Hunter,
whom together with his associates
offer to Columbia and Adair county,
seems to me a Eailroad on a silver
waiter, and I believe there are enough
intelligent men and women in Adair
county to see this and accept same
without delay. I was associated with
Dr. Hunter, legal capacity, in the
street car franchises' in the city of
Somerset, 1906. Under adverse condi
tionsand political intrigues against
him, succeeded in giving to that city
a street railway, water, light and oth
er municipal assets, that she did not
enjoy before Dr. Hunter does things
and if the people will give a helping
hand, a band of steel will connect
them with the outside world and that
shortly.
Then I can close my eyes and get a
glimpse of the future, to Breeding a
good road, Jamestown, Liberty, Bus
sell Springs, and in fact the county
becomes a net work of the mater
worker, whether by Bonds or other
wise I do not know, but I do know
that the good roads are coming and
that soon The Bonds, or the Bond
issue is the best,, quickest, .surest and
most economical way to build roads.
If the county officers or those having
charge of the Fiscal and Corporate
affairs are honest, business and pains
taking inen, and will well andA truly
see to the application of the purchase
money, In "this event if properly ap
plied, the Bond indebtedness" becomes
an asset rather than a liability.
Here in Burkesville we are doubly
interested In the out borne, of the rail
road and jour good road movement.
If the railroad comes Columbia will
necessarily be our bbj ecti y point . Ib
is our best and shorbes way to the out
side world. We have an election here
shortly submitting to a vote of the
people Bonds Roads or no Eoads?
We have an efficient County Judge
and fiscal court, and we expect results.
We are going to have good roads
whether by the technical or academic
route, so Adair get ready and meet us?
Yours,
W. T. Obley.
The terms of the proposed contract
between a committee of citizens of
Adair county and Dr. W. G Hunter
and his associates are substantially as
follows: ,
Dr. Hunter and his associates agree
to organize, issue their, own bonds,,
make the surveys at their own; .cost,
and build a railroad from, CampbelJs
ville or Greensburg, or some Interme
diate point on the L & 'N. railroad
between said points to Columbia and
pub ib in operabion within eighteen
months from the date of the contract.
The route for the road and the
points for stations will befixed by the
joint agreemenb of bhe contracting
parbies. When said road has been
constructed to Columbia and Is in op
eration, they are to be paid by us fif
ty thousand dollars, and unless they
do this they will nob receive a cent.
The people at this end of the line,
are also to pay for the right of way.
Of course, If the road is nob built, 1
there will be no need for a right of
way. So, if we pay our money we get
the road, and if we do not raise the
money we can nob get it. That is the
long and short of it, and ib is up to
our people to say whether this oppor
tunity to secure a road shall be lost
o r whether we will take
advantage of it. If the road is
built, it will benefit every part of the
county, and every citizen in it. There
fore, every one should aid in securing
it. We publish herewith the obliga
tion which our citizens must sign in
order to enable the committee to con
tract. It Involves no complications.
Its provisions are plain: if we do nob
get the road, we have nothing to pay.
The money must be subscribed ab
once. Leb every one-man and wom
an, help this enterprise. The paperto
be signed reads as follows:
"We the undersigned in order to se
cure bhe building and putting in oper
ation a railroad from Campbellsvllle
or Greensburg, Ky, or some interme
diate point on the Louisville & Nash
ville Eailroad to Columbia, Ky., prom
ise to pay to E. H. Hughes, W. W.
Jones, Brack Massie,--B?-F. Paull, J.
N, Coffey, Gordon Montgomery. N. M.
Tutt, J. O. Eussell and C. S. Harris,
whom we hereby appoint as brustees
and attorney's in fact to collect and
hold said money and enter into con
tract for the building of said road, the
sum set opposite our names respect
ively, same payable upon demand of
said trustees, bub same nob bo be due
or payable unbil a sum aggregating j
$50,000 has been in good faibh sub
scribed on this 'or similar papers. ,
Said sum is to be used in securing the
construction and;operating of a rail
road to Columbia, Ky.,' and for.no oth
.er purpose, andno part of same is to
be used or paid out by said trnstees
until said road is constructed and Is in
.operation to Bald town.. When said
road is constructed to Columbia and
put in operation said trustees are au
thorized as our agents and attorneys
in fact bo pay to the person or persons,
company or coiporation with whom
they may contract for constructing
said road, the said fifty bhousand dol
lars. If said road is not constructed
and in operabion within twenty-four
months from date, this subscription
is, to be void and the money paid on
same is bo be refunded to us by said
trustees. It is understood that the
subscriptions"recently made by us to
the proposed Columbia Eailroad are
canceled and of no legal effect.
May 1916.
We have mentioned several times
recently the immense poultry and egg
business at this place, and there seems
bo be no leb up. We are glad. on ac-'
counb of bhe good farm wives and
daughters that the business continues
to grow and that the prices are satis
factory. One thing that an onlooker
does not understand Is, where, do so
many chickens And eggs, come .from, as
many wagons loaded come to town
daily. In the last three months tens
of thousands of dollars have been paid
by Grinstead & Co., bhis place.
We are not yet near out of the woods
on our railroad proposition. We lack
about $6,000 in money and the right of
way. This means much work yeb.
This condition should appeal to every
citizen. Don't wait for some body else
to do the work, 3ome forward your
self and see that the amount is made
up, or else we may yet fail. Saturday
isfthejday.
BWB:m-JKB
Oliver Popplewell.
The above is a good picture of Mr
Oliver Poppleweli, who is a student
going through the Lindsey-Wilson. In
the month of May he entered in two
track meets, one at Danville, and the
other at Lexington mile running race.
He won at both places, defeating stu
dents from some of the best High
Schools in the State. At Danville he
came out thirty yards in the lead an
at Lexington, fifty yards
Up to the present time it appears
that the people along the pike being
built from Columbia to the Casey
county line have done very little to
wards helping our railroad proposition
Can't they see the rest of the county
is being taxed for their sole benefit?
Does ib not looklike they are expecting
togetthe-only pike to be built in
years, and then the rest of the county
also to pub up all the money for the
railroad, they will equally get the
benefit of? Gentlemen along this
pike, we ask' ;you to come for
ward next Saturday and, do your duty.
You river fanners, come and show
your appreciation for what you are ex
pecting to getcut-of our taxes.
Left for New Mexico.
, Last Saturday morning Prof. W. M.
Wilson and wffe left for Potales, New
Mexico, where the former will become
the Superintendent of the public
schools, that city.
Prof. Wilson's departure from Co
lumbia was regretted by the entire
town and he will be greatly missed so
cially and in educational affairs, hav
ing endeared himself as the head of
the High school and Graded school of
this place. He is a man of honor, pos
sesslng an irreproachable character,
and having a disposition that wins
friends from the start. Mrs. Wilson
is a lovable Christian, woman, a true
Kentucky lady, whose graces will
soon, win friends in her new home.
The News extends to Prof. Wilson
and his companion Its very best wishes,
.trusting that they may have good
health, grow rich- in the goods of this
world, then return to Columbia and
enjoy the wealth that industry and
knowledge piled up.
" Mr. Romie D. Judd, thla place, "wilt
finish at Georgetown June-7. Invita
tions bo bhe commencement exercises
have been received here. Mr. Judd
is "Giftorian."
Mr. W. E. Todd, son of Mr. and Mrs.
I A. G. Todd, this place, who has been
living away from Columbia for sever
al years, has been elected Superin
tendent of the Stanford public schools.
The Ladies Missionary Society of
the Presbyterian church will meet
Thursday, June 1, at 2:30 p. m at
the chut cti. There will be a good pro
gram. Please come.
Last Sunday a great many people
gathered at Mt. Carmel, all-day ser.
vices being in progress.
John Peterson, of Campbellsvllle,
and Fred Gray, of Robinson Creek,
Taylor county, were present. They
were upon the outside of the building
and it is reported here that they were
both drinking In the afternoon they
got to fighting, and Peterson was bad
ly stabbed by Gray. They left and
Gray was arrested In CamDbellsville, .
but was not incarcerated, for the rea
son that Peterson's father is the Jailer
of Taylor county.
The authorities here were notified
and Clyde Crenshaw and Nat Walker
went after him, but before they reach
ed Campbellsvllle, Gray had taken, leg
bail, and he is now at large. Peterson
is said to be badly hurt.
Five men in Columbia have sub
scribed $10,000 for the railroad. The
town of Columbia has put down more
than half the amount of the sum asked.
Mrs. Sarah Miller Dead.
Last Wednesday night Mrs. Sarah
Miller, who was the mother of Mr.
Frank Wolford Miller, died ather late
home, on Green river. She was a
victim of Pneumonia and was sick but
a short time. She was seventv-odd
years old, a good Christian woman, en
joying the respect of every body in the
neighborhood.
The funeral was larerelv attended
and the Interment was at Tabernacle
chureh.
Every representative farmer In
Adair county should be here next Sat
urday.
Died in Taylor County.
Lasb Saturday morning Mr. W. S.
Tandy, who was a brother of Mr. E.
E. Tandy, this place, died ab his late
home, six miles from Campbellsville,
on Lebanon .pike. He was about eigh-.
ty years old and had been a local Bap
tist preacher for many years. The
funeral services were held Sunday.
Mr. R. E. Tandy was in attendance.
Show your Interest in the railroad
by being in Columbia next Saturday.
The Parlor Circle theater will.be
removed from its present location to
the second story of the buildingin
which Mr. J. F. Patteson and Mr.. L.
M. Young are now doing business..
The apartment is much larger and the
ceiling higher than at the present lo
cation. Workmen are' now elevating
the floor and making other alterations
necessary for the show business. The
show will probably be in operation at
the new place the latter part of the
first week in June.
Everything looks good for the rail
road proposition. Five or six thou
sand dollars will not deter the people
of Adair county.
In last week's issue we reported that
Mrs. M. H. Rhorer, of Middlesboro,
had received a fall ab Lebanon and
was seriously injured Later infor
mation's to effect that Mrs. Rhorer
was not as badly hurt as was reported,
and that the indications point to her
early recovery. She was visiting her
daughter when the accident occurred.
Mrs. Rhorer's Columbia friends are
glad to learn of so favorable informa
tion concerning her condition.
L. M. Young's fountain is now be
ing installed. He will be ready for
business in a few days.
Jidiss Hattie Mullinix, who is a grand
daughter of Mrnd Mrs.E..F. Molli
'nfxnls place, .Js Valedictorian andr
winner of VWineman Gold Medal, of
TTnTnn TTlcrh School, afc Oxnard. Cal.
Bier brother, James, is Salutatorian,
being secoqq winner or highest honors.
Graduation takes place June 8th, 1916.
There are 100 High school students in
the school.
Next Saturday will decide whether
the survey will commence at once.
Farmers report that wheat has come
out wonderfully since the rain, las
week. Before the rain the heads were
small, but now they are large and full.
It now looks like an average crop wil
be harvested. ' ,
- : ' t f --;
- :uk.: .
, :. Hi I
J. 1 1- -.
.: .4 .:.. .
i.
