"Reply not to me 'with a fool born jest. Presume not that I am the thing I was."--"-""-"
ILVER, 68 3-4 CENTS
IV
THE WEATHER
Fair Tonight nd Thursday
TONOPAH DAILY
Bonanza
&aw
METAL QUOTATIONS - j;
silver . 8 : ;
i Copper - -J4 J;
; Lead o
Quicksilver V"0
TONOPAH, NEVADA, WEDNESDAY EVENING, MAY 31, 1916
PRICE 10 CENTS
VOL. XV-NO. 340
COUNTY
TRUCK
CLEAR SOUTHERN ENVIRONMENTS
OF ALL THE FRENCH DEFENDERS
FIRST LINE RETIRES
AS GERMANS PRESS
But Vigorous Assault on French
Second Line Fails and assail
ants Jersist
(y Aiioclated Press.)
SKRLIX, May HI. The Germans have cleared the southern cn
v irons of (uniieres of the French, who were holding on there. Nearly
hundred prisoners were taken. Eighteen machine guns were talyn
near ('tin ret tea woods.
British Losses For RFTTFD KFFD TDAODv AT HflMF
ULI ILI IVLLI IIXUUI O rtl IIUIVIL.
GERMAN INFANTRY ATTACKS REPULSED
By Associated Pross.)
PARIS, May 31. In the course of a violent struggle at Verdun
the Germans compelled the French to evacuate the first line trenches
rw.nr ( ' ret l wmiil Kimtli of ( 'uiiiicrcs. The Germans launched
infantry attacks repeatedly over a considerable section. The French
repulsed the Germans everywhere except near t'anrettcs wood.
- AUSTRIANS ADVANCING IN ITALY
I Br AaOflall rrr.
BKKLIN, May 31. The Aimtro-llungiirinns operating west ot
Arsiero in the Trentino district, forced a passage across the Posina
river and captured the heights on the southern hank. Vienna also
announced the capture of the Italian fortified works of Ptinutae Ordin.
IS
MAROONED
May Are Heavy
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, May 31. British
casualties for May were heavier
than for March or April. The
total for May,in all fields was
1,767 officers and 28,470 men.
4
HIGH AND DRY ON THE ELY ROAD
WAITING FOR BROKEN PARTS
FROM THE COAST
GERMAIN
IS HO
10 EI11EM PEACE TERMS
(By AoocUted Pre.)
LONDON, May 31. Premier Asuith in the House of Commons,
when quest ioncil by Sir Arthur Markhnin, said tin-re wan nothing in
the recent statement of Dr. Von Hi thiuann-llollweg. the German chan
cellor, that indicated that Germany was prepared to consider a peace
which would safeguard the interests of the allies and the future peace
of Europe.
The second hand truck bought by
the county for the sum of $1,800 Is
marooned on the road fifty-seven
miles from Ely where it was dispat
ched with a load of .naterial for the
Currant creek construction. This is
the truck that broke down soon after
it changed hands and passed into the
ownership of Nye county. For several
months the machine reposed in the
roadway at Manhattan waiting for
some blacksmith down in Log An
geles to furnish the broken parts. The
machine is obsolete and has been ob
solete for the last five years The
former owner could not persuade any
body to look at it but 'Commissioners
Ferguson and Marsh heard of the an
tique model going to waste and kindly
ordered Its purchase with the people'8
money.
It was another case of Tarvia. After
the money was paid it was learned
that the model was of such antiquity
that none of the running parts could
be duplicated without having them
made to order. This find came about
through the truck breaking down.
Then it laid idle for seven months un
til the parts came. When in commis
sion less than 3 days the truck broke
down once more anvi now adorns the
Ely road where it will remain until
the old blacksmith in Los Angeles,
who is the sole possessor of the natenW
ted parts can be induced to- take a
day or two off to rurnlsh what is
needed.
Although in use only a part of last
month repairs cost $fi5.
-
MIT IF ANY
. uu I UI1L- IIL.L. I
AN CIS UNCLE SAM
BEAT!
Crank Tackles Vanderbill
Home Looking For
Rockefeller
) llr ANnnelntrd 1'rewa.t
ST. LOUIS, May 31. Moral treason
to the United States was charged by
Roosevelt against German-Americans
who seek to make their governmen
tal representatives act in the inter
ests of Germany rather than his
country. He characterized the German-American
alliance as "Anti-Ameri
can alliance" adding he believed its
members "not only do not represent,
but scandalously misrepresent" a ma
jority of the real Amertcans of Ger
man origin. "I should be just as un
alterably opposed to an English-Ameri-
NEW YORK, May 31. Saerbes ,:H" """ aH 1 am "B"'"""- ur
Fowrdbes, a woodcarver at Yonkers, ! man-American alliance." He took ls
hurled stones at a window of the . 8ue w1th the President's views of pre
vun,wv,n. v,, TiMrtT, t,.n,. -nrt' paredness, saying: "Uncle Sam has
IS CARRANZA'S PLAIN HINT
GEN. GAVIRA GOES
TO CAS AS GRffNDES
Visits Gen. Pershing for the Pur
pose of Cooperating in Hunt
For Bandits
(By Andoflated Praa.)
EL PASO, May 31. General Gavira left Juarez today for Caaaa
Grandes to confer with General Fershing with a view to obtainhiC
closer co-operation in the bandit search. Gavira was accompanied by
his staff on a special train, with a machine gun mounted on one oar.
This is the outcome of the Seott-Obregon conference. .
AMERICAN NATION MUST RELY
ON ITSELF AND NOT ON
OTHERS
lly ANtliiifil I'rpNM.)
i
was arrested. Fowrdbes old the po
lice he thought he was stoning the
home of Rockefeller whoi he held res
ponsible for the sufferings of the poor
lie said he and an accomplice plan
ned to Btone the house, while his ac
complice was to shoot Rockefeller
when he came to the door. The ac
complice failed to appear.
juBt one friend Uncle Sam."
HOLLAND INQUIRES
.uilwtio iMTrunrn
11 Ml U 111 I LI1ULU
BIGGER THAN EVER
TUNGSTEN
1
P
CARRANZ A DEMANDS EXPLANATION
Ejr Aaaorlatrd Prcaa.)
WASHINGTON, May 31. A new note from Carranza asking for
a definite explanation of the continued presence of American troops iu
Mexico and renewing his request for their withdrawal was presented
today to Secretary Lansing by Ambassador Arredondo. The note
was in Spanish. .
The note argues that the withdrawal of troops would be the
best proof that (he United States wants no war with Mexico. Fur
ther it says the continued presence of the expedition is having a cou- !
trary effect. Carranza asserts that had the troops now in Mexico
been patroliug the border on the American side the Glenn Springs
and Boquillas raids would have been prevented.
The state department regards the note, not as an ultimatum, but
as a continuance of negotiations. . . . .
RUSSIANS
IK
E GOOD USE OF III
WHILE RESTING ON Gft FRONT
Hr AniN-iaini 1'rm.i I soldier climbs out ot a trench and
STRUSOFF, Galleia, May 31. Htrolls back to a strip of woods In
There appears to the civilian observer , which white smoke patches suggest
hers no immediate prospect of a Bus- caIp ,ireBi jn the-immediate fore-
elan offensive on the Gallcian front
Meanwhile the Russians have made
good use of the several months which
have passed since they occupied their
Present advanced positions. Trench
work has beeen accomplished and wire
ntMglements constructed. An aero
bians flight which The Associated
i less correspondent made over a sec
tion of the Russian front disclosed an
amazing network of trenches and
wire.
Several RusHlan generals declared
that never before since the beginning
of the war has their army been so
well equipped with munitions, and that,
the army is reR(iy lo a niRn to ad
vance when the orders come.
Across the flats the Austrian tren-
"e can be seen with the aid of field
glasses. Now and then an Austrian
ground Russian soldiers expose them
selves with seeming disregard for the
proximity of their enemies, who are
well within rifle range. An officer ex
plained that because it was the lunch
hour the troops Telaxed their precau
tion to some extent. A sort of truce.
It appears, has become a feature of
operations, and It was, he said, quite
certain that until after two o'clock no
shots would be fired by either side.
A Journey of fifty miles from the
Russian frontier at Husatin carried
the correspondent through a1 fertile
and highly-cultivated prarle country.
Tilled fields already turning green
ers his hatred of the Russian conquer
or or feels none at all. Directions are
given cheerfully and freely when ask
ed for. Provisions are readily offer
ed, and the Russian soldiers quarter
ed in Gallcian villages appear to be
on the most friendly terms with the
people. One reason ror this attitude,
it was explained, may oe round in the
kindness with which the Russians
have treated the population. For ex
ample, In a field hospital not far from
the front, a pnle little girl of per
haps ten years occupies one of the
cots, surrounded by wounded soldiers.
Other civilians are similarly given re
quired medical attention. It. is the
common practice of the Russian army
surgeons to take these people in for
treatment free of charge.
-
NETHERLANDS WANTS TO KNOW
IF WILSON IS READY
TO GO
I Hy Anmoelatnl rreaa.)
THE HAGUE, May 31. The follow
ing cable to President Wilson was
sent today, "Regarding your address
before the League to Enforce Peace,
we beg to aBk if the general idea of
a conference of neutral governments
in behalf of peace have your sympa
thy." (Signed).
Netherlands And War Council.
The scheelite property near Soda
ville Is , growing better anrl larger
every day and the mineralized area
has been extended for the distance of
a mile from the original location. The
Noble mine owners control the best
part of the district and they are not
exhibiting any dread of a permanent
decline In the value of the metal. At
the mine there are over 135 men era
ployed. Two caterpillar tractors have
taken the place of teams on the lower
stretch of road and nearly 150 men
are employed in road building and
finishing the new 100 ton concentra
tion mill at Sodaville.
FOUR BANDITS KILLED
S By AMMoelated Prcu.)
CHIHUAHUA CITY, May 31 Four bandits were killed today
in the San Bernardino district, near Durango by Carranzistaa. After
ward Isaura Villobos, a notorious outlaw leader asked for amnesty
and promised to surrender his companions.
ASCENSION THURSDAY
EVERY WHEEL STOPS
ON HE HILL LINES
(Spei-lal to ha BonntiBa.)
ST. PAUL, May 31. As a mark of
respect to the memory of J. J. Hill,
the public schools closed and business
was suspended for five minutes im
mediately after two o'clock, the hour
AUSTRIAN DRIVE INTO ITALY
BRIHGS IH 30,000 PRISONERS
(By Associated Press.)
BERLIN, May 31. The Austro-Hungarian advance in Italian
territory was carried further today into the region of Asiago and
Arsiero. Vienna reported that the Italians were driven from GallSo.
The Attstrians have captured Montebaldo and Montefiara. Since the
beginning of the drive 30,(HK) prisoners have been taken, '
Tomorrow Is Ascension Thursday
which is observed in the Catholic
church as a holiday ot obligation, of the funeral. Theatres also cancel-
Father Diss will celebrate mass as led matinees. Every wneel on the
7:30 and 9 o'clock at St. Patrick's Hill systems were motionless for five
church. I minutes.
Capitalists Come to Camp
To Build Plans for Future
During the past, week Tonopah has j OHO shares of Halifax, a power in the
with sprouting grain stretched away been visited by a number of mining
to the skyline In every direction. Wo-j men of prominence, whose presence
men and old men were performing the; here was due to developments In the
labors of cultivation, mines, either consummated, under way
The Gallcian peasant either smotli-', 1" process of conception. Among
9 iieiii may ua menuoneu iihs. u.
Lai tig, president of the Resctio-Eula;
Read Today's News Today
"r' NNlteu the Tonopah Bonanza slarts the big cylinder pivss to
Kftndiiig out the regular afternoon edition the dny is over in Ktirope.
n'i the iiewa has been Rent over the cables. More real news will not
Tive l.f1r,, t, n,.xt day. '
Wln-n it is 4 p. in. in Tonopah, it is 12 p. m. in London. 11 ;0!t p.
i". in 1'urin l .m n ... :.. H....K.. i-.r.: ... :., i
- j-. hi. iii i'miiii, i ,. n, in. en v t'liriinntiiitijiie iiiiii
2 :1k I a. in. in lYtrograd.
Six hourn difference in time gives all the European news; 1o Tono
pah people by 4 ;00 p.
The difference, in time allows the. afternoon newspaper to cover
m news from the war tone in its regular 4 i. m. edition. lra-
llermrnn Zadlg, fatner of the assess
ment system of the camp; Harry
Moore, once a leaser, now a holder of
shares In mining companies and rep
resentative of heavy interests; H. A.
Cohen, formerly field manager for
Captain DcLaMur and now operating
on his own account. Mr. Cohen, by
(he way, Was accompanied by several
friends, who took over the Candelaria
I mine and they viewed the Itelleville
tailings and took them under their
wing. Hen V. Fdwards, the alert vice
preHident of the West KnJ Consolida
te Mining company, urnl by grace of
latter company, also spent a few days
in the camp. Senator Thomas Kearns
and David Keith, of Salt Lake City,
are due here next Monday. It looks
as though Tonopah Ts in line to be
viewed and reviewed by very heavy
mining people this season.
One cause, of course, is the appre
ciation in the price of the while me
tal, but even more potent is the devel
opment of the mineralized lone at
nith. in breadth and on its trend.
FUNERAL CONDUCTED
BK ALTAR SOCIETY
REMAINS OF MRV N. J. DEVINE
LAID TO REST IN TONOPAH
CEMETERY
vein to render Its low grade palatable
It has plenty of both to continue along
this method of extraction for an in
definite period.
Mlzpah Extension continues to pro
duce from the Flat vein. The values
are not given out, but they would
not be shipped If they were not worth
shipping.
Midway has a drift on a vein that
is not less than one hundred feet be
tween walls. It is not claimed that
this Is all ore, nor even that there
Under the auspices of the St. Pat
rick's church Altar society the ob
sequies attending the burial of the
late Mrs. N. J. Devine were conducted
this morning. The funeral was form
ed at the undertaking parlor and the
body escorted to the church where i
masB was celebrated by Father Diss!
after which the cortege wended its I
way to the cemetery. The ladies of
the Altar society walked behind the
hearse to the railroad station where j
autoes waited to convey them to the .
place of burial. The pallbearers were
A. H. Keenan, Elbert O'Connell, Pat
rick McIIugh, Sidney Hodson, William
M. Grimes and John H. Myles.
JAMES HALLIDAY VICTIM OF
AN "UNLOADED" REVOLVER
James Halliday, a miner, past six
ty years of age, was accidently shot
and almost instantly Med in, his
tent at the Tungsten mine last Sun
day night. The only ey witnesa to
the fatal accident was Haliday'a
friend and partner, Joe Lanyon. ,
White Pine News.
llrtefly siimncirijieif. the important I ,ull '' of commercial grade,
.'hanucs for the better are lha follow-i but an Improvement may be ex
im;: Halifax has exposed its wonder
ful ore shoot for ISO feet on the 1241
level. It Is extracting across twenty
feet and without haste or waste.
Raises from the l:lotl will shortly de
fected.
California and Tonopah, under op
tlon to the Tonopah Mining company
of Nevada, has shipped fourteen rail
road carVr.:?s of ore from the fourth
tk-ally no newa is sent out from European rapitala after J .4i . u J a uidiu by that corporation of 2.
uionatrate something very Interesting; level and the option must be exercised
n this ore lens. or rejected today, for this is the last
llelmont ia taking only enough 1
ream ao sugar from Us favorite (Coatlaaea oa fa our.)
TODAY AND A YEAR AGO
.
' Official readings of the ther-
mometer by tbe United States
observer at Tonopah.
1916 1915
5 a. m. 39 58
9 a. m. 49 89
12 noon 55 T5
2 p. m 59 77
Heiattve auiuldltt at I p. m.
today, 17 per cent.
!
BUTLEIR
THEATRE
BETTER PICTURE
TONIGHT
ALICE BRADY
Ane
HOLBROOK BLINN
In -"THE
BALLET GIRL"
Life behind the scenes. Greatest
theatrical story ever filmed. See
the ballet of the Metropolitan
Opere House
And
ONE-REEL ANIMAL COMEDY
(No others like It).
TOMORROW
"RECLAMATION"
And
RATHE WEEKLY
One Matinee, 1 :SO. Night, 7:1M:4
Admission, 1Q and It.
L Reserved teals en tat at Theater
