THE BARBE DAILY
VOL. XX NO. 65.
BAIillE, .VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MA V 31, 1916;
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GREAT DRIVE
BEATS FRENCH
AT CAURETTES
Paris War Office Admits
That French Troops Evac
uated First Line Defenses
.South of Cumieres, but
Declares All Other Points
Withstood the Violent Onslaught
GERMAN SHELL FIRE
HAD LEVELED TRENCH
BEGAN OFFENSIVE
ON RICH MAN'S HOME
Armed with Satchel Filled with Stones,
Yonkers Man Bombarded William K.
Vanderbilt'i House Till Police Inter
feredHe May Have Mistaken the
House for John D. Rockefeller's.
New York, May 31. Carrying a leath
er bag tilled .with stones, Searles Fowrd-
bea, a wood carver of Yonkers, began
hurling stones at William K. Vanderbilt's
homo on Fifth avenue to-da$ The po
lice declared that the man thought he
was at John 1). Rockefeller's and say he
told about a plot with a friend to kill
Rockefeller when he appeared at the
door. The alleged accomplice didn't appear.
The prisoner talked incoherently about
revenging himself upon Rockefeller. ' He
was charged with malicious mischief.
rowrdbes was examined at the police
station by the police physician, who an
nounced him to be a dangerous man and
would recommend commitment. for ob-
servation as to his sanity. A small sti
letto was found in the man's pocket.
GERMANY
REFUSES
WAS TOWN CLERK 45 YEARS.
Will Not Accept the British
Counter-Proposals for Po
land Relief Work
WILL NOT GUARANTEE
AID FOR SERBIA, ETC.
German Detachments Which
Fog
DEDICATION AT WHEELOCK.
Monument in Honor of Town's Soldiers
in Early History of Nation.
St. Tohnshurv. May 31 TjiKt. Memori-
Had Crept Up tO Chattan- Ul day the town of Wheelock dedicated
court Line Under Cover of of wtweuxk who took part in the cmi
. .. , I war. The handsome monument was the
Were Annihilated gift of one of -their numbers, Fred W.
AuacK rreceaea oy iwu wheelock.
... . , jm, I i esterday another monument, the gift
Oi V lUieau m UUCIJ of Mr. Chase, was dedicated in the honor
of the soldiers of the Revolutionary war
and the war of 1812. lew towns have
the distinction accorded Wheelock in the
number of its citizens who servexi in the
wars, particularly in those of 1812 and
01 to m
The dedication exercises yesterday
Days
Fire
Paris, May 31. In the course of a vio
lent struggle last night on the Verdun
front the Germans compelled the French were participated in by many former res-
to evacuate a first line trench near the ldents ot W heelock. lhe marker is
Gaurettes wood, south of Cumieres, the placed in the triangle of the road near
war office announced to-day. After two the old grist mill and is made of the
days of especially severe bombardment mill stone, from the old null, handsome
the Germans launched infantry attacks ly mounted and bearing a bronze tab-
repeatedly in great force over a consul-1 let on which is a list ot Wheelock s sol
erable section of the Verdun line. The dicrs. The program included addresses
French resisted stubbornly, and the offi- by the donor, Judge V. T. Taylor of
cial statement says they repulsed thejHardwick and Prin. O. D. Mathewson of
Germans everywhere except near Caur- Lyndon, all natives of the town
cttes wood. The trench evacuated had
been levelled bv German Bhell fire. BUSY DAY FOR TEDDY.
Under cover of a fog, detachments of
German troops made their way to the Include Three Speeches and a Public Re
vicinity of Chattancourt. where they ' wnMnn in St Lnnis
were annihilated bv French fire. East of I
the Meuse intermittent artillery encount- St." Louie, May 31. Theodore Roose
crs occurred velt, wfto arrived here to-day alter mak
ing a speech in Kansas City last night
had a busy day in . prospect. His pro
gram called for three addresses and
Decision Reached at Confer
ence in American Em
bassy in Berlin .
Rerlin, May 31. Germany will not ac
cept Great Britain's counter-proposals
for Poland relief work, the decision hav
ing been reached at a conference at the
American embassy. The British propos
als were found unacceptable owing to the
fact that Germany was unable to give
the guarantee demanded by Great Brit
ain for simultaneous feeding of Serbia,
Montenegro and a section of Poland oc
cupied by Austria as a condition for per
mitting food for Poland to pass the Brit
ish blockade.
IN BARRE NEXT YEAR.
Ver-
FRENCH DRIVEN
pnnii rTTHfrr ora ipwblie reception before leaving for New
JTKLMl LUiUlJCiKEiS York at 5 o'clock this afternoon. The
principal speech was at the City club,
German Troops Are Said to Have Cleared
the Southern Environs of th Vil
lage and Made Some Small
Captures.
Berlin, by wireless, May 31. German
troops operating in the Verdun region
west of the Meuse have succeeded in
clearing the southern environs of Cumi
eres village of the French who were hold
ing on there, the wtar office announced to
day. Nearly 100 prisoners were taken
in the capture of May 29 and a naval gun
and 18 machine guns during the Caur-
etteis wood righting, it also announced,
A tremendous cheering crowd greeted
Roosevelt but lie went through it with
a rush, tne policemen running, to keep
up with lum. Roosevelt stumbled into
a refuse can aa the crowd pressed him
Another crow a was awaiting him at his
hotel.
AUSTRIANS STORM
POSINA HEIGHTS
Capture Italian Positions On the South
ern Banff of the River and Also Cap
ture Fortified Works of"
Puntac Ordin.
Berlin, by wireless. May 31. Austro
Hungarian troops operating west of Ar
siero in the Trentino district have forced
a passage across the Posina river and
taken the heigMs on the southern bank,
WORKED DEGREE ON 23.
Big Fraternal Gathering at Orleans Last
Evening. ' "
Orlens, May 31. One of the greatest
fraternal meetings held in northern
Vermont by any secret society for many
years was held in this place last night
when the Suadali temple, No. 140, of
the Khorassan order, of Barre, worked
23 of the local Knights of Fythias into
the ordor. A big auto parade, which was
scheduled to take place had to be post
poned on account of the rain.
The Pythian !isters of Orleans served
an elaborate supper to the local knights
and visitors.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Bertha Holden of Plainfield was
says the official statement of the AiiHtro- among the visitors in the city to-day.
Hungarian headquarters, dated yester
day. 1 he capture of the fortified Ita.!
tan works ot i'untac urdm is also an
nounced.
BRITISH SUFFER
Mrs. George V. Mann of Wellington
street has returned to the city, alter
passing several months with her daugh
ter. Mrs. E. M. Laws, in Bonton.
Fred A. Inglis returned to the city
this morning from Rutland, where last
evening he participated in a concert
TIT? A VTT V TM T V given by the pupils of G. H. Wilder.
T 1-a.raa Mr and Mnli George Gilman
Total for All Fields of Operation Was
1,767 Officers and 28,42 Men Heav
ier Than for Either of Two Pre
ceding Months.
London. May 31. The British casual-
George Gilman and chil
dren of Claremont, X. H., have been
passing a few day at the home of Mrs.
Oilman's mother, Mrs. Mary Barclay, of
Park street.
Tames Peterie of Montreal, P. Q., ar
rived in the city yesterday and began
work, to-day in Miers' up-town barber
ties lor .May were mucn heavier than for shop, succeeding Pasoualc ladisernia,
either of the two preceding months. The who has gone to New York to reside.
J. J. Dashner, real eetate agent, has
sold for Albert R. Chcebourgh of Wash
ington a part of his large farm with the
buildings thereon to Murdo A. McAulev
of Barre Town. Mr. McAulev buys fur
an investment,
The amusement committee of the Odd
Paving Cutters Last in Knox County, Ladies will meet at the home of Mrs.
William Steven. Pleasant street, Friday
evening at 7 o'clock. Every member of
total from all fields of operation, as com
piled from published lists, is 1,767 offi
cers and 2S.4-4 men and in April the
casualties were 20,511.
TROUBLES ALL SETTLED.
Postoffice Clerks and Carriers of
mont are Likely to Meet.
St. Albans, May 31. About 100 mem
bers attended the fourth annual joint
convention of the Postoffice Clerks' and
Carriers' association of Vermont, held
in this city yesterday. The largest out-
of-town delegation was from Burlington.
The next convention will probably lie
held at Barre. '
At the meeting of the Vermont branch
of the National Association of Postoffice
Clerks the following officers were elect
ed, James A. Austin presiding: Presi
dent, Thomas G. Bristol of St. Albans;
first vice-president, Oren Pcnnell of
Swanton; second, .1. T. Kenefick of
Barre j secretary, John P. Corcoran of
Barre; treasurer, Warner R. Hall of
Montpelier; state organizer, Fthan H.
Taylor of Rutland; auditor, Miss Mary
Maun of St. Albans. M. D. Devine of
Providence, R. I., Rhode Island state
president of the Nation Association of
Civil Service employes, gave an address.
Letters of regret were read from the
two congressmen and the two senators
from Vermont, from Postoffice Inspector
F. -H. Buckley of Burlington, and the
Hon. Thomas Reilly of Meriden, Conn.,
father of the Reilly compensation act.
At the 17th annual convention of the
Vermont Association of letter Carriers
the following officers were elected: Prev
ident, J. M. Flvnn of Burlington; vice-
president, W. If. Fair of Bellows Falls;
secretary and treasurer, H. L. Richard
son of Montpelier.
The speakers at the banquet at the
American house at 8 o'clock in the even
ing were Lieut-Gov. Hale K. Darling of
Chelsea, Maurice P. Devine of Provi
dence, R. I., Mayor John E. Maun, W. D.
Chandler, president of the St. Alliens
Business and Professional Men's associa
tion, and John T. Cushing, editor of the
Messenger.
E. W. Huntley, Prominent Duxbury Man,
Passed Away Tuesday.
W aterbury, May 31. E. W. Huntley,
wno nan neon seriously ill for many
weens, passea away at his home in Dux
bury yesterday morning at 12:4.) o'clock,
1,-1 vtr:n:..j .V
iviwr viuiBru uuniicy wag born in
Duxbury, Nov. 11, 1S;)1, the son of Gil
bert and Mary Nash Humlev and hud
always lived in and been- devoted to his
native town. He was educated in the
public schools and at Peoples academy
in Morrisville. For a time he taught
school and was later engaged in farm
ing, working also at his trade as car
penter.
In 1809 he bought the nlaee w-here he
had since resided and died. Gradually
working into the lumber business, in
1880 he bought of S. S. Foster the mill
near his home and engaged in this bus
iness until ten years ago he sold to the
Demeritt A Palmer Packing company,
now the Demeritt comnanv. I
Mr. Huntley served his home town in'
almost every official capacity. He was
justice of the peace for many years. In
ios ne represented his home town in the
legislature, and in 1908 the county in
the Senate. In both of these houses he
was a valued member. He also served
four years as assistant judge of Wash
ington county. What lift considered the
greatest honor.' however, that ever came
to him was his continuous election as
town clerk ami treasurer, receiving laat
March his 45th election in both of these
offices. For the past four years he served
on many important county committees.
He was a member of the Twenty-live
club, of Dillingham grange, of Emerald
Kchekah lodge, NO, 33. of Mentor lodge,
. O. O. F., of Winooski lodge, No 49, .
nd A. M., of Waterbury chapter. R. A.
M., and of Mt. Zidn commanderv, No. 9,
K. T. i.
Mr. Huntley married in ISM Menta F.
Crossett, daughter of Judge Janus Cros
sett of Duxbury. Mrs. Huntley died 17
years ago. During these later years, his
oniy onim, mertie fcuretta, wife of Kd-
ln F. Palmer, and family have lived
ith him and to them his life has been
much devoted. To his grandchildren,
Annie Dorothy Palmer and Eber Hunt
ley Palmer, he gave deeply of his inter
est and help, which was reciprocated by
a great depth of affection.
The deceased is also survived by one
sister. Mrs. Delana Stevens of Essex
Junction, who is critically ill; and one
brother, A. C. Huntley of Bolton.
Although having for yesrs arterio
sclerosis, Judge Huntley had a deter
mination to overcome all obstacles and
by his constant activity kept from peo
ple his true condition. Only in the home
was the seriousness of his trouble known.
Nine weeks ago he was obliged to take
his bed. with acute nephritis, complicated
with a bad heart. Since that time a reg
istered nurse has been in constant at
tendance and for the last two days two
were on the case. Until two weeks ago
hope were entertained that he might
yet be able to be about the house again.
Then complications arose which made
even a partial recovery hopeless. His
mind was clear almost to the last and he
instructed those nearest him with his
usual business acumen.
The funeral will be held from his late
home Thursday afternoon at 1 :30 o'clock,
followed by a service at the Duxbury
town hall at 2:30 o'clock, and burial
will be at Duxbury Corner. liev. W. L.
Roicourt, pastor of the Waterbury Con
gregational church, will officiate, assisted
by Rev. George E. Ladd of Woodstock.
who was pastor of the Waterbury church
when Mrs. Huntlev died. The Masons
will meet at 12:30 o'clock. Friends are
requested not to send flowers.
NOTA DEMAND,
OFFICIALS SAY
Carranza's Latest Note Is
Only a Continuation
of the Discussion
MAIN ST. REALTY
IS TRANSFERRED
RELATING TO TROOPS
STAYING IN MEXICO
Staetment from Mexico City
Received in Washing
ton To-day
George M. Marrion Buys 40-Foot Front
age South of Morse Building and Se
cures Option on Entire Depot Sq.
Holdings of Granite Savings Bank.
A realty transfer and option involving
all of the property from the corner of
Depot square at 216 North Main street
to the Morse block at 260 North Mum
street, waa niadelo-dny when George M
Marrion purchased from the Granite Nav
ings Bank & Trust Co. the house and lot
just south of the Morse building, com
prising 40 feet of frontage on the main
thoroughfare. The purchase price is said
to have been around 7,000. Air. Mar
rion secures, in the transaction, an option
on the building at the corner of Depot
square and the main street, JUcVs lunch,
8 called, the Barre auction market, the
building occupied as a liarness shop and
smithy and all the land, extending as far
back as the tracks of the Montpelier &
Wells River railroad. For the present,
the purchaser takes possesion of the
house and 40-foot frontage alone. '
When interviewed to-day, Mr. Marrion
said that bis plans for tho future do not
contemplate building operations immedi
Washington, D. C, May 31. The
American government received a note to
day from General Carranza regarding the I ately, although-it is .intimated that
situation growing out of the pursuit of building project on the property mhy be
,.. ., . i..ai t,.u put through ultimately. The block of
ma. nue vn note n.u no. .u.., bu,Minjw thereoI1) whi(.h R.
translated this morning, officials said it ure in tie dealj lmve l)een in the han,la
was not an ultimatum, but a continuance of the Granite Savings bank for some
of the correspondence regarding the ques- years. Hie house acquired by Mr. Mflr-
A. e . -t..i I ri(Mi, w no Buys lie ixniL'iit inc property
f inn nf rrnnna remaininir in Mexico. I . ' - . . " . . ' I J
' " for an investment, is occupied as a bar-
The note, asks for a definite explana- ber gl0p an(1 dwelling; by Enrico Modiea,
turn regarding the continued presence oi who is to vacate in a few days
American troops and renews a request
for their withdrawal. Larranza reiers 10 REID PENCE,
the repeated declarations that the United
States wants no war with Mexico and Barre Young Man Went to Cleveland for
argues that the withdrawal would be the I Hia Bride,
best proof of that attitude. The contin- At Cleveland, O., Tuesday afternoon
'61-'65 VALOR
RECALLED
Survivors of the War Hon
ored Memory of Their
Departed Comrades "
UNUSUAL INT .EST IN
BARRE OF RVANCE
Fourteen '.werans Marched
to Elmwood Cemetery-Col,
Ira L. Reeves the Speaker
Memorial day, with its recurring mem
ories of valorous deeds, was accorded a
worthy observance in Barre yesterday,
when various fraternal organizations
joined with allied patriotic societies in.
assisting the veterans of R. B. Crandall
post, No, 5H, G; A. R., with the usual ex-
ercises. Lowering skies, broke but onca
during the morning march from Depot
square to Elmwood, and then a light fall
of ram lasted but a few moments. Tho
breath of rain was in the air throughout
the day, but it did not serve to interfere
materially with the public arrangements
for the observance, nor yet with other
preparations which people had made for
carrying out plans of their own.
If the observance was much the samo
as in former years, it cannot be said that
there was any falling off in the interest)
manifested in the occasion. Along North
Main street in the business section many
flags were flung to the breeze and mora
dwellings than ever before displayed tho
colors. To be sure, a latter-day propen
sity for ignoring the real significance of
a holiday ordained in memory of fallen
heroes found it expression in a desire on
ued presence of the punitive expedition I took place the wedding of Mrs. Dorothy
is having a contrary effect, stays the note, j;. Pence, daughter of E. S. Kelly, who
and claims that Carranza troops are now resides at StlilO Hough avenue in that
able, both in numbers and position, to city, to Allan W. Reid of Pf.irre. son of
control outlawry in northern Mexico, and i)r'. and Mrs. W. D. Reid of South Main
that co-operation by Americans in pre- street. The wedding took place at the
venting, border incursions can be best bride's home, the officiating clergyman
carried out by having the Americans pa- being Rev. Mcllyard H. Liehliter of the
trol the American side. He declares that Kpworth Memorial Methodist. Episcopal
if the troops now in Mexico had been pa- church, Cleveland. Onlv the immediate
trolling thus, the Glenn Springs and Bo- family connections of the bride and groom
quillus raids could have been prevented, and intimate friends witnessed the cere- the part of many to indulge in sport.
After delivering the note to Acting mony. Among those who attended were There were baseball games, private pic
Secretary of State Polk, Eliseo Arredon- Dr. Howard IL Reid and Mr. and Mrs. nics and a good deal of motoring bub
(in, caiTiiniMJ iiiiMnuiM, auiiiiii.ru niov uougms ivi. imrciay or i-nis cuy. alter an very little waa detracted fron
it was brought Monday by Manuel Men- jfr. and Mrs. Reid left Cleveland imme- the impressiveness of the morning pro
dcz, an attache of the Mexican foreign diately for Barre and are to be at home, cession and the services at city hall Bus-
office. He said he denied the notes exist- 72 Franklin street, after Juno 10. The iness in general waa suspended and thosa
euce because he wished to ask his foreign J bride is a well known Cleveland young of the stores that were not closed all day,
omcr 11 hhjuuhk inn uuuiici ii isv 1 oiuan, 110 lormea n acquainmnce wun 1 Ilittilc it a point to reserve a few hours
its attitude during juenacz trip. 1 the groom while he was engaged in Cleve- of the afternoon
land as a representative of the ermont Soldiers of five wars were remembered
Marble Co. Mr. Reid is a graduate of in the deenratintr of irnv at cimum
BcncAin. miui"'.. i i-iouierness scnooi. rivmoutn. 'l.. ana none. Man e.woort. W lnon ami the ruth.
.Norwich university, having figured nrom- o ic cemeter e. Cnt t T. pv.. nr.
wiiour in. rrencn, Diineranu, xncu iv mently in athletics both in preparatory I ident of Norwich university was tha
Board Locomotive.
PLEADED FOR A PINT
THREE MEN ENVELOPED
When Burlington Street Caved In, but
All Were Rescued.
Burlington. May 31. George H. Ladue,
C. E. Gilbert and Sherman E. Gilbert
narowly escaped being killed yesterday,
when they were buried under a mass of
earth and heavy timber after falling dis
tances varying from 150 to 300 feet,
when the bank at the edge of the swamp
at the head of Park street suddenly col-
anned. The big cave-in wis cauttcd by
the bursting of a sewer main, which sud-
enlv released a large amount of water.
Mr. Ladue, who is tiS years old, .is con
fined to his bed as the result of injuries
received. The others are badly shaken
up and bruised.
Several house are near the edge of the
bank and the break is only a few feet
from one of the buildings. The disap
pearance from solid ground of the men
who were standing in the i-enter of the
street engaged in conversation, was spec
tacular, ladue whs completely buried
In the mud and it was some time before
e was dug out. The sewer burst, owing
to the extra pressure caused by heavy
rains. - .
Me., to Sign Up.
Rockland. Me.. Mar 31. The last of
the labor difficulties in the Knox county
granite industry was settled yesterday,
v. lien tlie t. lieorRe t.ranite to. signed a
rive-year agreement with their striking
paving cutters. 1 he men will receive a
10 ppr cent raise in pay on the average.
.ihout l.i" men are anectcd.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Michael McDonald left the city this
morning on a misiness trip to l ens
this committee is requested to be preent.
rer order chairman.
Charles Young, formerly a re&idnt of
Marre. who has been visiting Andre
Young, hia brother, and with other rela
lives in the city, left this morning for
lbany. N. Y where he will tnakc a
'fay of nercral days before going to At
lanta, lis., to reside.
At Cabot yesterday the North Bsrre
Red Sox defeated the town tram by the
core of 12 to 7 in a bsveball game nota
ble only for the fart that eight of the
nine inning were played in a downpour
of rain. When the spectators made for
cover, the two teams kept grimly to
their tak. Ross and Webster were in
the points for the Sox and Walbridge
Kivrr.
Dr. and Mrs, J. H. Woodruff of Keith
avenue are the parents of a son, born
Tiiedar, May 30.
Mr. and Mrs. Adams of 2 First street
lst yesterday for Burlington, where they nd Fawon constituted the home irrotin
are visiting inenas. battery.
Miss Kuth Lamb, who has been visit-1 Miss Maydean Roee Mnssy. daughter
ing at her noma on Washington street, of Mr. and Mrs. William .l,y of
returned thia morning to Concord, N. H. I Waohington. died Monday forenoon at 8
Tha children in the third grade, ward 5. (o'clock, after a brief illnrsof nneumo
have found different flowers. Made-lnia. The ohild. who was stricken last
line Ducharme found the largest number I Saturday, was six years old. Besides her
of any one pupil. I parents, she is survived bv two sistrrt.
Mis Futh William of W ashington Mrs. Leon Page of Granitevi'le and Mrs.
tr"rt left on tJie noon tram to-dy for ICbarlr Downing of W m-hington. Prv
(onrord. N. If., where ahe will visit er services were held at tie bouse this
afternoon at 1 oVbx-k and an hour later
the funeral t.k T'lace in the church at
Washington. Rev. Mr. W eller f!Ti. sating
InUrment was made in the t-JIage in
terv.
MAY DIE OF BURNS.
Elderly Woman Was Filling Stove with
Denatured Alcohol.
New Haven, May 31. Mrs. V. V.
Black mer, about 70 years old, who lives
on the Nash farm on the New Haven
river, was terribly burned yesterday by
the explosion of a bottle of denatured
alcohol from which she was filling an al
cohol stove. Her dress was -entirely
burned off and both legs to the waist
were burned. One arm to the elbow was
severely burned.
Mr. Blackmer arose before daylight
and. lighting a match, attempted to fill
the stove, when the contents exploded.
throwing the flaming fluid over the worn-
ana clothing. She is in a critical condition.
But Montpelier Raiding Officers Refused
to Make Sale.
In Montpelier city court to-day Mrs.
Louise Gome of thnt city pleaded guilty
to the charge of keeping liquor with in
tent to sell and furnish, and her case was
continued till Saturday for sentence. She
was represented by Attorney E. R. Davis
of Barre.
Mrs. Gomez' house on Berlin street
was raided Monday afternoon when the
officers found a barrel of beer and several
pints of whisker. The woman was away
from home at the time and a man, who
se-tned to know where he was, tried to
dicker with the officers for a pint of
whiskey, so the offuers stnte. He was
not accommodated. Three witnesses
were on hand to-day to testify when the
woman pleaded guilty.
The baseball team from the stai-? agri
cultural school at Randolph motored to
ftarre thi morning and sojourned in the
city preparatory to playing baseball in
Montpelier .this afternoon.
- Brattcboro, May 31. Wilbur "M.
French, 2(1 years old, a Boston & Maine
freight brakeman, died at 4 o'clock yes
terday morning in the Memorial hospital
as the result of an accidnt at the rail
road station three hours earlier. He at
tempted to board the engine, which was
backing tip to couple onto his train, and
slipped on the platform, falling beneath
the locomotive wheels. The left leg waa
nearly severed from the body at the hip,
and the right leg below the knee was cut
off. Dr. H. P. Greene, railroad surgeon,
worked over the man, but the loss of
blood and shock proved fatal.
Mr. French lived in Claremont, N. H.,
and his run was between White River
Junction and Greenfield, Mass. His w iTe,
I school and at college. Since severing his speaker of the day and fullowW the cus-
eonnectioH with the Vermont Marble. Co. I tomary ceremonies of the early forenoon
late in ini,, he has been employed by and the exercises at city hall, the vet-
the Standard Granite Co. in Barre. No erans enjoyed their annual dinner in tha
cards. 1 I vestry of the Congregational church.
Lines for the march to Elmwood wera
DEATH OF DR. McGOFF. formed at Depot square. A cordon of
Barre police led the way and then cam
montpelier uenust ttaa Been r resident the mounted marshals, Capt. C. Newell
of State Dental Society. I Karber of .Norwich university and Georgn
MSlin II. .UCVrMI IIHPSCIJ awavi
Dr.
Monday night at 11 o'clock at his home,
9i (ollege street in Montpelier after a
three years' illness with diabetes, the
disease reaching an aetite stage bust Fri
day. The funeral will be held Thursday
afternoon at 1 o'clock from his late
home. Rev. Stanley F. Blomfield. pas
tor of Bethany church, officiating, a Ma
mother and brother reached Brattleboro sonic service to be used. Burial will be
about an hour after he died.
LIEUT. PEARY IN N0RTHFIELD.
North Pole Man to Assist in Forming
Aero Club of Vermont.
Admiral Robert F.. Peary, the discov
erer of the north pole, who is now devot
ing his entire time to aeronautics and avi
ation, is to be the guest of .Major Wal
lace Batchclder, of the Aero Club of
America, at Norwich university. North
field. July 6, and will help perfect the
organization of the Aero Club of Ver
mont, at that time and place. Other dis
tinguished officers and civilian will be
present to help launch what promises to
be one of the largest aero clubs in Amer
ica. All persons who desire to become
charter members of the Aero Club of
Vermont should make application before I
July ft bv letter addressed to Major Wal
lace Batchclder, Aero Club of America,
207 Madison avenue, New Y'ork.
made in Plainfield.
alter Henry .Mcl.on was born in
'Irasburg, January 22, 1S60, the son of
Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius McGoff, and he
resided in that town until he was 20
years old when he went to Nashua, N.
H.. and for eleven years was in the
printing business, being located on the
Nahua Telegraph. He was gradu
ated from the I niversity of Pennsylva
nia in 1901 and waa located in Elkhart,
Ind., for two years before coming to
Montpelier.
He was associated in the dental bust
ness with Dr. G. r. Hunt atter his ar
rival until about six year ago when he
purchased the business from Dr. Hunt.
followed and after them came a barouche
in which were seated Col. Reeves and
Rev. B. J. Lipsky, pastor of the Hedding
Methodist church, who was later to offer
prayer at the exercises. Carriages con
taining the city officials were next in lina
and then came teams with those of tha
veterans who did not march. St. Aide
mar commandery, Knights Templar and
Canton Vinton were represented by larga
marching delegations and their presence
in the parade lent an admirable touch of
color. Sons of Vetcran-i, out in numbers,
were followed by a detail of 14 Grand
Armv men, who brought up the rear.
The line of march extended up North
Main street, thence up Washington street,
to Elmwood, where the hollow square
was formed and the salute to the detd
was given.
Returning over the same route, tha
paraders brought up at city hall, where
lines were formed while the veterans ami
the Sons of Veterans marched into tho
opera house. John W. Averill, chairman
of the Memorial day committee, presided
at the exercises and one of the largest
He was president of the state dental Uudicnces in recent years participated.
society for a year, being elected in 1915
and it was while attending the annual
meeting in Burlington several weeks ago
that he contracted a cold which hastened
his death. He belonged to the Nashua
lodge of MasoYis, to the Modern Wood
Following a selection bv the band. Adjt.
J. E. Harris recited the general orders
and the veterans, with bared heads. ga )
the salute to the dead. Another band
selection, and the tribute to the unknown:
dead wus paid when Comrade A. J. Bald-
men of America, and to the Apollo club win, in stirring tones, delivered!! eulogy in
of Montpelier. poesy to the men who found their last
The deceased is survived by his wife, resting places in nameless graves. Cpon
Clara Pcrrin. to whom he was married Comrade Baldwin also devolved the honor
at St. Albans ten years ago, and one of reading President Lincoln's Gettysburg
son, Donald; also Ins parent, who re- address. After the hand had playeil
side in Irasburg, and five brothers anal again, prayer was offered by Rev. Mr,
three sisters as follows: Isaac ot Lipsky. Thereafter, the audience arose)
Millinocket, Me.. George Frederick of St. I to its feet one. while the band played.
Bane Merchants, Aided by The Times, Promoting a Big LO-opetative iraae wee Johnsbury. Charles C, of Jlornstown. the accompaniment for "America. Fres-
T., F.dwin C. of Brandon. Chester B.. ot I ident Reeves address followed and after
BIG TRADES WEEK PLANNED
FOR OUT OF TOWN SHOPPERS
and Fare Refunding Sale from June io to June 17, Which Will Bring
Buyers to This City and Introduce Local Stores to Many
Who Have Not Traded Here Before.
Irasburg. Mrs. E. N. Knapp and Mr, j
Joseph Whslen of Irasburg. and Jlrs.
J. A. Bishop of Alberta, Canada.
friends for a few dsvs.
R. K. Frenii-. a former resident, of
Brr. is niting bis mother, Mrs. Ellen
Irenier. Mr. Frenier is eroplo'ed as a'
Jr crk in Titt'OH, Mas.
FARM BUILDINGS BURN.
t ;,ooo Loss in West Berkshire and 11,500
in Sheldon.
West Berkshire. May 31. The farm
buildings of E. A. Moier were destroyed
by fire last night about midnight, to
gether with three horse and some poul
try. Most of the household furnishmL'
were raved. The fire started from some
unknown caus in the liorsebam. lb"
loss is l.lssi, and the insurance is $1.7 .VI.
Shehlon, May 31. lightning strut k a
barn of Joseph IVsTocia at 1:30 yester
day, and the resulting Cre de-stroved the
bam, together with a -w top luzv
t hr-e fon and thre tons of hav
!? is flv; iDuxanv, .
The Times, in conjunction with the
Kist Co-operative Sales Co., has practi
cally completed arrangements to inau
gurate a big co-operative fare refunding
sale in Barre. to begin Saturday, June 10,
and end on Saturday. June 17.
During these seven day the merchants
of Barre are going to make it an ohject
to the buying public in the way of prices
and assortment of goods, and tn addition
to thi they are going to refund the fares
of all out-of-town customers who do
their trading in Barre during this sale.
The occasion is to be known a "Shop
in Barre Week." or "The Times' Big Co
operative Fare Refunding Sale." It will
be a great opportunity n demonstrate
what can be done by co-operation, be
cause practically every mcrihant in the
city i going to make special preparation
for this big trade week, and the shoppers
will b able to buy anything and every
thing they may want for some time to
come.
Nearly every merchant in the city will
make some spnsl inducements in the
way of good and prices f,r this sale, and
those in need of anything, from a dish
pan to a complete out ft for the home, or
from a pair of hose to a complete ir-
lor clothing outfit, shw and aii. or fnm
liir'a pound of sugar to a big order of gr
rTir, drugs, noeltia, etc., (-houd aTaJ.
FUNERAL OF DONALD McLEOD.
themselves of this opportunity to lay in
a supply of seasonable merchandise at
special bargain prices.
Some people may wonder why the
merchants of Barre are uniting in a
movement of this kind, but the reason
i simple when explained. Parre kas the
best stores in any city of its sire in all
New England. The people of Barre know
this and the merchants know it, and The
Times know it. It is desired that all
the people of thia whole section of the
stste know it, and a united effort on the
part of The Times and the merchants of
Bsrre will be made to let them know it.
Every merchant in the city is being re
quested to make some special induce
ments in the wav of goods and prices for
one week, and at the same time a gree to
pay their proportion of the fares ri fund
ed to all out -of tow n customers during
the week of the sale.
The plan is nieetirg w:th the hearty
Was Held Tuesday Afternoon Burial in
Elmwood Cemetery.
The funeral of lsnsld McLend. an ex
alderman of Barre, whe sudden death
ocriirred at hi home on the MontpeliT
road Sunday morning, was held at the
h-oise Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock,
Rev. J. W. Barnett. pastor of the Con
gregations! church, officiating. The bear
ers were: .Alex. ver. -fames Imlah,
C. W. McMillan. William Bla.k. William
McDonald and J.mes (.lass. Members of
CUn liordon. of which the decerned waa a
charter member, attended the funeral
and a large escort accompanied the body
from Black well street to Flmwond ceme
tery, where tne dsn rittisi ws ue.i ai
the graveside. The fnral tributes in
cluded a numlwr of fine set pieces.
Appointments is Probate Court.
a final selection ov tne musicians. Key,
Mr. I.ipkv pronounced the benediction.
.At the close of the services the veterans,
with their invited giists, repaired to ti
church vestry for dinner.
Col. Reaves Address.
In his address. Col. Reeves consumel
little more than a half hour, but his re
marks were fraught with much that
those who constituted his audience will
do well to remember. He was introduced;
by Ch-iirnisn Averill and spoke substan
tiallv as follows:
"While we are gathered here to giv)
horor to w hom honor is due. let me psnS)
for a moment before beginning my t !
on preparedness to pay tribute to thsi
Vermonter who offered themeives on
the altar of their country in the stirring
time of '61. It is a matter of general
knowledge that Vermont's quota of Civil
w ar soldiers w as larger, according to pop
olstion, than any ot'ier stato in the un
ion. In these davs when preparedness is
on every lip. the devotion of the Grant
Armv to the principles of liberty havsj
peculiar significance to latter-day gen
erations. You mn w ho offered Ungrudg
ingly 1I that yon ld and more, have.
approval of practically all of the leainff I
merchants, and as a result it will be the 1 In poHate rurt at Montpelier to day ,our loyalty and fidelity, furni-hej
bigst trading event ever know n in the , Harry K. Hawkins of Montpelier iip-i lon for the youth of to-day.
stste of Vermont. Further announce- poip'' "d administrator of the estate of. "To-day I 'iail n-t talk so much of
mcnt w ill be irade of this big co opera- 1 Harry M Wheeler, lste of t a'ais; M. P. j tV pa-t or the present as of the fiitura.
tive fare-refunding sale from day to day ; I 'J of Wor.-e-;er w as i.tvmtd admin- j are looking on da Moodt war of
in The Times. Watch for these announce- 1 i-tratr. 'h w i!l annuel, of t'r.e etatej,i hj.tery. Our own Inited States, foyj
of Aaron WheeVr: m-l H r.Tp l v!r-'ail e.f j reagniMde. has pa-.se through
row and Ilr,rv I., m-ts-m. ii ot nt
nerds. Merchandise will he offered as
stated before at jr- which will I
hard, if riot ir-risii,l. to dunh, ate in
acy town -r city ia the cr.trj. .
p--ier. wre app
("3in;-s."Cft ia
'Intel aprrr anf
the Whether estate,
!tr: a'ter cr:: na the European ds
(Coii!:a-jl on fourti X v ;
