-, rte .. "
VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDN 2S)A'Y MAY 31, 1916.
_____ ____ __ N M E[ 45
34 M[MB[RS Of
GRADUATION CLASS
Ten Receive Diplomas and
Remainder Certificates
VERY ORIGINAL
CLASS EXERCISE
1)r. E. 0. Watson Preached Con.
moncement Sermon Wednesday
Night and Dr. J. S. loiYatt Delivered
Literary Address Friday.
The collencement exercises of the
Laurens graded school came to a
close Frildav evening with the deliver y
of the literary address by Dr. J. S.
Moffatt and the awarding fo diplomas,
certificates and medals. The class
numbered thirty-four members, ten re
ceiving dipomas for having completed
the regular prescribed course and
twenty-four for having completed par
tial courses.
The commencement exercises began
WVedlnesday evening, when Dr. E. 0.
Watson, one of the foremost ministers
of the South Carolina conference, de
livered the comlleni(emlnent sermon.
Dr. Watson preached oil the suhject
of "Preparedncss'", making an alppli
cation of the country's danger from
military ulprepareiness to stress the
importance of individual prepared
ness 1)9 education and spirituality as
a foundation for life's work. His ser
mon revolved around the story of the
five wise and the live foolish virgins,
the former of whom were ready to
participate in the wedding festival
and the latter left out because they
were unprepared. The sermon of Dr.
Watson, though heard by a small con
gregation, was given marked atten
tion and was very inspiring to the
young men and women of the graduat
Ig class.
Thursday evening the annual class
exercises were held. In these exer
cises a departure was made from past
customs. The exercises were divided
into two parts. The first part repre
sented a reception tendered the class
by Miss Margaret Dial, one of the
members. Before the reception pro
gressed very far, however, it was turn
ed into a suffrage meeting, where men
and women alike were allowed free
(loin of speech. The meeting was turn
ed over to Miss Elizabeth Young, pres
ident of the class, who called on dif
ferent members to state their views
on the topiles of the times. Miss Rie
becca Lake thereupon read the "ills
tory" of the class which, after a few
alterations, was ordered spread upon'
the minutes. Miss Myra Wofford read
the class "Poenm", whlch was also
duly ordered inscribed upon the mimn
utes. Eugene Power then read the
class "Will", which was ordered pro
bated after several codicils had been
attached. The class song being sung
with much gusto, the meeting adjourn
ed in order that. the second part of the
program nmi:ht be carried out. The
secondi part was a variation on the
class "Phophecy". Mliss Mlargaret
Dial was againi the presidinig genius.
Falling asleeip in soime imaginary
place, a fairy, in the person of Mlis
Frances Mlyers, appeared before her
and stretching forth her magic wand
caused the future of each member of
the class to be foretold ini tab~leau,
some singly, some in groups and, at
last, all the boys in a single minstrel
Scene. The clasis was rend~ered valum
able assistance in this by other school
children, particularly flyve little girls
who danced under the magic influence
of the fairy.
Friday evening the gr'adulating exer
cises were held, 'when Dr. James
Strong Moffatt, of Erskine College, de
livered the literary address. Dr. Mof
fatt's address was principally a warn
lng against the modern tendency to
ward materialism in education, mak
ing a lela for that broader course of
study which would fit one for the en
joyment of other things in life than
the making of mnoney, which would put
him In sympathy with the world
aroundi him andl make him one with
hlis fellow man. Dr. Moffatt received
close attention throughout his address
and was given hearty applause at its
close.
-Following the address of Dr, Mef
fatt, the diplomas and certificates were
presenteil by Sitpt.'Parkihson. Miss
Rebecca Lake was then pres'ented with
'the medal given annutally by an un
know* person to the membsr of the
(Contnued o* Pag*' Vorr.)
CAAMPIGN OPENS
AT SPAR1ANBJRG
Piedmont Section First to
t be Covered.
CAMPAIGN OPENS
JUNE 20TH
Subcotmmittee Made Its Announce
ment in Coluibla Monday, when As
sessments were Fixed for Various
0..ces. Books of Enrollment will
Open .June 6th.
Columbia, May 29.-The county to
county canvass of the candidates in
the Democratic party will open at
Spartanburg on Tuesday, June 20th
and wind up at Winunboro on Satur
day, August 26th. The primary was
given out here today by a sub-commit
tee. The last day for filing pledges
with the state chairman, .John Gary
FIvans, and paying the assessments to
the treasurer, Wilie Jones at Colum
bia, will be noon on June 19th.
The campaign opens at Spartanburg
on (he 201 h, goes to Greenville the
next (lay, and then to Pickens, Wal
halla, and closes the first week at An
derson on Saturday, the 24th. The
party will tour the western and upper
sections of the Piedmont, then west
ern Carolina, swing through the Pee
Dee and the low country and wind up
in the edge of the Piedmont section.
The first primary will be on August
29th, three days after the county to
county canvass closes. The campaign
party will speak at each of the 45
county seats in the state.
The sub-committee of the executive
committee announced the following
assessments on candidates to enter
the Democratic primary for 1916:
Candidates for congress $200, for gov
ernor $100, for railroad commissioner
$75, and for all other state otices, in
cluding solicitors, $50.
The schedule of the state campaign
meeting for South Carolina:
Spartanburg-Tuesday, June 2b.
Greenville,-Wednesday, June 21.
Pickens--'Thursday, June 22.
Walhalla-Friday, June 23.
Anderson-Saturday, June 24.
Greenwood-Tuesday, June 27.
Abbeville-Wednesday, June 28.
AlicCornmik-'T'hursday, June 29.
Laurens-F'riday, June 30.
Newberry--Saturday, July 1.
Columbia--Tuesday, Juily 4.
Lexington--Wednesday, July 5.
Saluda-'hursday, July 6.
IEdgelld--Friday, July 7.
AIken-Saturday, July 8.
lIhrnwlell-'Tuesday, J1uly 18.
I lampton-Wednesday, July 19.
Beaufort-Thursday, July 20.
Ridgeland-Friday, July 21.
Walterboro-Saturday, July 22.
Charleston-Tuesday, July 25.
St. George-Wednesday, July 26.
Bamberg--Thursday, July 27.
Orangeburg-Friday, July 28.
St. AMatthews-Saturday, July 29.
Sumiter-Tuel'nsdaiy, August 1.
AManning-Wednesday, Agust 2.
AMoncks Corner-Thursday, August 3
Georgetown-Friday, August ..
Kingstree-Saturday, August 5.
Fliorenc-Tuesdlay, August 8.
Alarion-Wednesday, Agust 9.
Conway-Thursday, August 10.
Dillon-Friday, August 11.
.Darlington-Saturday, August 12.
Bennet tsville-Tuesday, August 15.
Chesterfled-Thursday, August 17.
Camiden-Friday, August 18.
Lancaster-Saturday, August 19.
Union-Tuesday, August 22.
Qaffney-Wedlnesday, August 23.
Yor'k-Thursday,- August 24.
Choster-Friday, August 25.
'Wnnsboro-Saturday, August 26.
The recess, it will be noticed comes
from July 8 to 18th, in the middle of
the campaIgn, as is the custom.
To participate in the primary it will
he necessary for every Democrat to
have his name enrolled on the club
or pirecinct in which lie lives. Books
of enrollment wvill open on Tuesday,
Jumne 6th, and everywhere Democrats
must sIgn the club roll in "person wIth
his full name and address. The qual
ifications for enrollment are: Citi
zen of the United States, two years
residence in the state, one year in the
county and four months residence in
the club precinct or ward. Books of
enoletwIll close thirty days prior
etollenfrt primay and names can
n'tothbe enrtd after that time. The
enrollmnent uks arc now being print
ed and will be shipped out to the see
ANOTHER INSTiTI'TION
BECOMES N.\'ION A. BANK
Farmers Bank Is Now Workiig Under
the United States Treasury Depart
ment, llegini ug Last Saturday.
A telegram last. Friday from John
Skelton Williams, Comptroller of the
Currency, to President M. .1, Owings,
authorized the Farmers Bank to open
books and commence business as a na
tional bank. Saturday morning at nine
o'clock the bank opened for the first
time as a national bank, and business
from then on was done under the laws
governing such institutions. The
necessary changes in the books,
stamps and stationery are being com
pleted as rapidly as possible and in
short order the bank will be a full
fledged member of Uncle Sam's or
ganization.
This makes the third national bank
for Laurens, the other two being the
Enterprise National Bank and the Lat
rens National Bank. The Farmers
l'ank is the youngest of the Laurens
banks and since its organization has
enjoyed continuous growth and pros
perity. They id a dividend last
-Ianary and will pay another mid
year dividend in July. Mr. M. .I. Ow
ings is the president, Mr. .J. Enrl Ow
ings the cashier, and AtIr. Clyde
Franks is bookkeeper. 3l r. Owings,
the lnresident is at recognized force in
the business cireles of the county. and
the other :1mmhers of the bank's force
are young men of excellent reputa
tions.
EXECUTIVE (0M3Df'llTTEE TO MEET'I
Will Meet. in the Jury ioom of the
('ouirt House Sutturday Morning at
10:30 O'clock.
The County Democratic Executive
Committee will meet in the jury room
of the court house Saturday morning
at 10:30 o'clock, according to a no
tice issued by R. E. Babb, chairman.
At this time the itinerary of the coun
ty campaign, the assessment of candi
'dates, election of managers and other
matters will be acted upon,
A Big Day at Prospect.
A large number of people from here,
attended the "Children's Day" exer
cises and picnic at Prospect church
Saturday. An interesting program
was carried out and a bountiful pie
nie dinner served. A collection was
taken up for the Connie Maxwell Or
phanage an(d a neat sui realized. The
day was a pleasant one in every re
spect.
Harnea8'- Phiflathlen 1eceting.
The IBiraa-Philathea classes of the
First Baptist church will have a so
cial gathering in the auditorium - o
the church Thursday evening at 8:m
o'clock. The program will consist of
music and an address by I ra W.
Blackwood, of Spartanburg. Mrs.
Black wood will render several mus
ial selections. The public is cordial
ly invited to attend,
Dr. Moffatt Preached.
Dr'. J1. S. Mloffatt, of Er'skino College,
preached an ('oquent sermon at the
A. ii. P'. C'hurch Sunday after'noon,
fill!ug the pulpit of 11ev. 1. N. Kennedy,
whol( was called awa-y to cond~uct a fun
er'al.
.1ce 'r'amn Festivaul.
The Miriamls, a society of y'ounlg
folks in the Presbyterian chiurchi, willI
give aln ice cream festival on thle
churllch lawn Saturday- evening, begin
ning at 6l o'clock. The proceeds from
the sale will be dlevoted to work of tihe
society. The piublic is coirdially in
vited to attendi.
Our Rteg'rets to ('andidates.
Space being very limitedl at the last
moment last night andi having no new
announcements to make, we took the
liberty of leaving out all cadlidate's
cards to make space for' a few
news itemls that we wished lpar
tlclular'ly to publish. As the candi
date's column was open irather' early
anywvay this year' we hopue that our~
action will be excused.
Lost Valuanble Animal.
Mr'. W. D. Byrdl had the mlsfor'tune
to lose his jack last Saturday. Tile
eau~se df thle aninal's death Is un
known.
rotary of every clulb at the end of tis
week by the secretary of the state ex
ecutive committee.
Two years ago there were approxi
mately 134,000 votes in the first pri
mary.-Orennvilla News.
The Wedding of a certail Well hnowin
Couple Creates Mtuichi Gossly Ia So
cliii Circles.
This week's chlefest social event
will not be a social event of this week.
It will be eventel next week, anything
to the contrary notvithstanding. Ref
erence is made to the wedding of Miiss
Tee 11l 'I'immcrman versus Alaster It.
Fleming .Jones, two of the city's worst
known young society bells, which was
scheduled to be laid before the preach
er tomorrow night. The (late of this
marriage has been changed to next
TuCsday night and the price of admis
sion-10 and 15-has not been
changed. It is whispered in the high
est social circles that the failure to
pull the match off Thursday as sche(
uled is due to the groom's failure to
scratch up more than seventy eight
cents for the marriage certificate. lie
hopes to be able to take up collection
next Sunday and save out enough to
buy the necessary credentials. Some
few others claim that the delay was
due to the fact that the bride's family
objected to the mach on the ground
that. the groom was in the hard ware
business and they couldn't eat hard
ware, liut eats or no eats they'll get
togetiher next 'T'uesday night till death
or the sheriff do them part.
The Germans caused t his weddling.
T'he Daughers of the Aiiericaa Itevo
lution are raising funds for the strick
en lBelgians anl t]his uock wedding
was gotten up that more might be giv
en in this excellent cause.
The time is next Tuesday, the place
the schoolhouse, the hour eight and
Ene half and the prices of admission
are ten and fifteen.
FUNERAL OF WI. C. SHARP.
Services. held. at. the Methodist
Church.
Hionea Path, May 25.-The remains
of Mr. W. C. Sharp who died at a 'Co
lutnbia hospital on last Tuesday
morning were brought here yesterday
at 11 o'clock for burial. The remains
were taken directy from the train to
the Methodist church where the se'
vice was conducted by Rev. S. T.
Blackman, assisted by Rev. Edward
S. Reaves and Rev. M, McGee after
which interment, was made in East
view cemetery.
Mr. Sharp had been ill for about
two weeks and had been in the hos
pital In Columbia for one week. lie
was about -ii years of age and is su'
vived by his wife and one child, a
daughter eleven years of age. lie Is
survived also by his mother and sev
eral brothe's and sisters, lie was
born in I lurens county but several
years ago mioved to lionea 'atlh and
entered into business. Later he was
E6 traveling salesman for several
years. About three years ago lie be
',an a geieral mercantile business
here and was interested also in faru
Ing. lie was a consistent member of
the Methodist church and was a teach
er in the Sunday school. lie was a
man of integrity and uprightness am.
will be greatly missed in business, so
cial and religious circles.
Addr'ess by Dr. ('iuinmghaum.
Th'o(s0 whlo .tonitempilate goinag to
hea r D r. Glus Wattis CuuiIng hamii de
liver the addrliess before the literaryv
societies at F~uirmaa~ liniver'sity will
lie inter'ested1 in knowiing tihat thle ad
dress will be given at l i o'cloc'k Wed
niesd1ay morinIig, Junme 7th, ini Alumiiini
I mlll. The train will reach Gr:eenvi lie
at 10:20, giving lilenty of time. Dr.
Potent extend1s a coidial invitation to
Laurens county fiends to be pre'senit
to hear thle young oirator, whlo Is a na
tive' of this county.
('iRIRS MET TIl1ESDIIY.
Addruessed by ,J. E. Johnsiton and Col,
J. HI. Whartonm. Ji. E. Jlohnisonu Elect.
ed President.
The Laurens County Rural Letteir
Cariers assocIation met in the city
Monday with a full attendlance. The
meeting wvas one of the best that the
caririors have ever' had. Addresses
w~ere made by Mr. J1. E. Johinson, of
(Gray Couirt, andl ('oh,.J. Hi. Wharton,
of Waterloo, biothi of wvhic'h wvere great -
ly enjoyed.
Ollicers foi' the next year were elect
ed1 as follows: Piresident, J). E. JTohn
son; Secretary, J1. H., Motes; Executive
Committeemen, B. R. Todd, ,J. WV. Leak
and WV. Y. McNeil: Delegates to the
State Convention which meets in Co
luimbla July 3-4, G. C. Johnson, Hi. C,
F'uller, G. Y. Hlellamis.
The carriers will met n'ext ,year at
Gray Court by special invitation.
Would Have a Meeting al
County-Seat in Each Co
Have Facts Brought Be
Mr. N. 13. Dial, conneelcd with the
EInterprlise National Bank, the l'atn
rens Rlonde( Warehouse and other en
terprises of this city which would enl
able, him to familiarize himself with
economic conditions in this state, has
issued a statement to the public in
which he invites Senator Mel attrin to
debate the warehouse <uestion with
him in Otelh of the Congressional dis
tricts of the state. The statement of
Mr. Dial is as follows:
To the Press:
Senator lcLaurini and some of his
friends seem to tiiink he should have
an opportunity to explain the present
warehouse system and( his manage
ment thereof to the illic. li answer
to this it could bie said that the law
establishing the warehouse is airad:
in existence andi he has been e'!e Ied
for a two years term. Anyway, if he
expects the legislature to alppropriaft
I'fuids with which to oivrat'. I th1ink
the public should unoler:ta:ml the s
fGl11Y ('O1l'CT-OWIN(S 1Ci.ED.
Sucessful Si ssion Came to anl End
Last Week. Teachers 1{e-elected.
Gray Court, May 2t.--The Gray
Court-Owings school closed its com
inencement Sunday with an eloqluent.
sermon by Dr. .\otfatt of Erskine Col
lege. On Saturday night a play "A
Regiment of Two" was rendered by
the high school pupils. This play was
a success and was attended by an ap
ipreciative audience. On Friday night
an address was given by Dr. 11. W.
Provence, of Furman University.
These exercises were well attended.
The medal given for the highest av
erage in the high school work was won
by Jeter Owings. This medal is given
by the Masons and is one that is ap
preciated very highly.
The following composed the exercis
es of the graduating class:
Address of welcome by Paul Hobo.
Class history, Sara Lou Boho.
Class' Phophecy hy Elford Rogers.
'lass Vill, by Marion Bryson.
Eight pupils finished this year, there
being tour boys and four girls. Alte r
the class exercises the names of I hose
that passed their grade, the names of
those that were present every day
dirin g tie year, and the naties oh
those that received library certificates
were read.
The school has had a very success
ful year, and the work of the teachet s
was aplpreciated as was shown by
their #$-election for another year.
Hoy Scout 1eetings Poplar.
The Sunday afternoon meet i ngs of
the local troop of Iloy Scouts are
growing very popiutlar. Tfhe mieetings
are hiel d each Sundcay afiterni0on at I
o'ciock whient siturt tal~iks ate made by
local men. Among those who har1 o
recently talked to the boys at thI
meetings are R1ev. C. F. Riankin, Mir.
11. l. Parkinson, Mlr. W. L~. Gray and
Dr. H,. K. Aiken. These short talks
have beetn very Iinsiiring to the boys.
The public is invitedl to attenid thlese
tmeet ings and( join in T thlemi.
Finance Committe Met in I
change Bank Yesterday
veylng Soon.
posed Carolitna Rapid Trransit Rilroad
p~osedl Carolina Tr'iansit Railroad to
to connect Spartanbuirg with Laurens,
Clinton, linion, Woodruff, Cross An
chiotr or other pioints in the inoterven
ing t erritotry, met in thle dir'ector'
room of the Peoples Loan & E0xchange
Bank of this city today and coimpuletedl
the work of drawing upi a charter un
der which It is expected the railroad
will operate. A commiittee was ap
pointed to have the charter issued by
the Secretary of State after due notice
by advertimiument in the newspapers.
,The committee (did not let the con
ract for the suirveys, as was expected,
as several engineering concerns re
4RN TO D[BAT[
t Some Centrally Located
ngressional District, Would
Fore the People.
Leto thoroughly. I am thereforeAwill.
ing to join in a movement whereby
the facts can be brought. before the
People, and to this end I would sag
gest. that Senator McLau rin andl'
have one meeting in each Congression
al District. We could get the county
chairman in some centrally located
county to call a me;ting at -some time
to be agreed upon.
I am strongly of the opinion that a
large majority of the people of our
state favor a warehouse syst em pro
perly organ izC(; properly, econollical
ly managed. At the same time I am
satisfied they do not approve of the
present make-shift of a warehouse
system nor the way it is matatgel.
If the alove suggestion m Ieets with
tle Senator's approval, it will afford
tte IiCleirie to liscus the mllatler with
111111. Ii'iI
Yours truly,
N. 1.. D)ial.
I.n1 n: ,8 S. (.. .\laiy 2!. I!00
VISITING IN LAt'ImNS.
Icel. and "ir's. ,ohn (iu lowny, Hleturn.
ed 3I isslonaries iere 1ii Friends,
irs. .Janie C. 'Clarke has had the
great pleasure of a short visit. from
Rev. .John Galloway and wife, mission-.
aries from Chiina, at. hoile for a rest.
Mlrs. Galloway was well known to
many friends as the wife of itev. S.
Charlton Todd. Together they worked
for years in lacco, China, were sue
cessful in their labors. Mr. Todd camo
home in the interest of the mission
cause six years ago and to visit his
mother. While here his life ended, his
body rests in the Laurens city ceme
tery. Two years ago his widow was
married to their co-laborer in Macoe
lev. .John Galloway of Canada. To
gether they are carrying on \If-. Todd's
work, so faithfully begun. They will
he in Ashville, N. C., for awhile; will
visit Laurens again before returling
to China.
11-ceelved Special Prizes.
Laure ls .\ills, \V'atts l ills, Youngs
aiid IHthanly schools were awaided e lie
four prizes offered by four ladies of
this city to those schools of the con
ty who made the best r(''olrd inl the
night schools (onduteid during the
spring. The t wo mill schools made
the highest records and the latter two
, nteste( c loscly for third place.
1':tr" onare l;thrnd a11 Wa'teri(o.
The .\bliiuiit parronage at \\ater
loo oeelpied by itev. It. i. Covinagtoni
and family, was totally destroyed by
fire Mlonday afternoon shortly after
G o'cIloc k. A part of the furniture was
saved. No insuranee was carried oni
either~ the house or' the furntliture. No)
(one was at home whlen th le tire began.
Tlhe origini is unkno 11wn1.
'"Chiidren's D~ay'" eerCises; wVi l be
held( att the irslt Meth~oidist ohur'ch next
Sunda mori3'ning o at I I o''clo(k. These
exc i'Ces arei al ways int erest ing and
inst ructive. Th'ie pulblic is invited to)
atten'ld.
ID RML.RQAD R4Ilr[D
he Peoples Loan and Ex
.Bids to be Let for Sur
(<iuestedi to lie allowved further time iln
wvhichi to make up their estimates. The
commnittee will meet at an early (late,
upon01 the call of thle chairman, when it
is expletedl that the bids will be form
ally opened and1( the contr~act let.
The commit teemen from the variouis
towns interestedl in thle r-oad reported
much enthusiasm for the railrtoad and
the indication are that stoCk will be
liberally subscribed tfor wheni it is of
fered for' sale. No definite idani of
financing the road has been decided
upon yet, though it is thought that
most of the stock is to he so0ld to lpeo
1)10 along the line of the road and the
r'emainder of the funds raised by tho
sale of bonds,
