DAILY EDITION
VOL. VI., No. 916. , ? "iH VTS PAS, JOSEPHINE COUXTY. OKKOON. WKDXKHOAY, MAY 81, , WHOLE NUMBER 176.
; No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With FW1 leased Wire Teleaph Semce. i r
i
1
FlOUERS F
SOLDIER
DEAD
Ulll
Decoration Day Is Observed
With Appropriate Exer
cises, Dr. Ed Bywater De
hmi Principal Address
With music tod word of trlbut
to the tueiuory of the heroes of th
nation, tit annual Decoration day
rde wer held Tuesday afternoon
t the opera house. Following th
opening number of the program,
th reading of th order of tb day,
ote., tbe welcome wa extended to the
large audleao by (be O, A. It com
Dander, which, m followed by other
mualoal and literary elctlon.
t The addres of th day wa dallv
red by Or. Ed. Bywater, Vho epoke
eloquently end forcefully of tbe pa
triotlam around whloh the thought of
the oooulon wu entwined. The pre
neat year marked the completion o
JUUI a century lno the aurrender qf .
Leo' eouthern army at Appomattox,.
' -the rounding out of the SO year
tau making of the II U observance
' of Memorial day eepeclally ; notable.
Tha doctor dwelt briefly upon the
eloaing of the war, then to tbe thin
king ranks of the t veterans sad. the
few more .year when there would
' be none left to follow the flag on
Memorial day to do reverence to the
memory of their fallen comrades.
,. Then Old Glory waa traced from' lti
birth through the years of It trite
and rh tfotorle that had attended
It alnoe It wa Bret floated, It II
. stripes marking tbe II coloulea. The
speaker endoreed a mora general dls-
' play of the flag, and favored the en
aotment of a law that would give the
star and atrtpe a fuller place in the
education of the boy and girl of
the 'nation. , .
,"Our boy of the army and nary
never past a flag that they are not
Jrpeoted to reverently white," eald
Mr. Bywater. "Would It not be just
ly fitting that wvery cltlien of our
country who share the protection of
that grand old flag be required to
reverently salute It each day? There
1 no question that tbe foreign-born
lad, who cornea to this country by
Adoption, would aoon learn the way
of the American lad, and learn to
love and reverence It a his flag, and
were this done, I believe It would
not be long until there would be no
such thing as a hyphenated Ameri
can all our citizen would be pre
pared all the time to reverence and
More it in the proper manner of loy
alty, and every red-blooded Ameri
can would stand ready to go willing
ly at his country' call to follow It In
honor and defense.
"Today one of the great question
before our congress in Washington
assembled 4s that of preparedness,
and I believe that if In the past few
year the citizenry of this United
State had beva taught to respect our
flag more, that there would needs be
lows money spent today to create a
sentiment to make law to proteot It.
Our country stands' for , peace and
good-will to every land. , We have
here all that we need to make us
happy and give us the things that
God wanted us to ihave, and In that
gift He has favored us more than
any other nation on the fare of the
earth." ';,'"'
After paying tribute to the hoys
who carried the war through to
final victory, the speaker referred
to the part of woman in all the wars
of the United' States, and especially
to tho part which she 'had In the
at rife of the '60s. Of her and her
work he said: "
"Pause with me, honored veterans,
to pay attribute to the broken
hearted mother who gave her son to
(Continued on pag I.)
01) Mill! SEES
1 -
EARLY PEAK
London, May 31. Imperial Chan
cellor von Bethmann-Iiollweg'a last
peh held no hope for an early
peace, Premier Asqullh stated In tbe
house of commons today In response
to queries a to whether the allies
wore willing to consider peace over
tures at this time. :
Sir Arthur Markhato, a labor mem
ber, put tbe peaoe query, having In
nilnd President Wilson's rumored in
tention of considering making over
tures for a cessation of hostilities.
Asqulth briefly said von Bethmann
Hollweg's last address bad not Indi
cated that Germany was ready to con
sider pesos on terms which would
safeguard; the allies' Interests. Ha
said he had nothing to add to 81r
Edwnrd Grey's reply to Hollweg.',
GETTING
TAX IS PROBLEM
Washington. May 11 Chairman
Loebeck of the house commute on
trad. expenditures Indicated today
(sat a congressional inquiry to aacer-l
. a wnetner us income tax can b&i
collected without publicity will be
gin shortly, tt will be thorough, he
Intimated. It is based on Basil M.
Manly' charge that ths government
loses f 10.000,000 annuaify tn income
tax frauds and Secretary of the Trea
sury McAdoo's reply. Discussing the
ease. Manly said:
"McAdoo admitted wholesale tax
evasion on a baseless estimate, but
hi actuary denied that they amount
ed to I8JO.09O.OOO. The actuary es
timated the American income at 110.
000.000.000, whereas even In 1910
responsible statistic estimated it at
jo,ooo;ooo,ooo."
VILSQIICQriFERS
TERS
Washington, May II President
Wilson today discussed politic with
8enator Kern, Congressman Dore-
mus, Norman Hapgood, a mem'bw of
the Wilson Independent league, and
others. ) It wss learned that he may
campaign In the heart of the country
following his renomlnatton,
For the 'most part, however, he
will conduct his fight from Washing
ton and' Long Branch, N. J. The
democratic party platform and cam
paign plana are largely In the presi
dent's hands. , Senator Stone Is as
sisting in drawing up the Interna
tional relations plsnk.
The platform Is expected to con
tain plonks weighing strict Ameri
canism, constructive proposals re
garding domeetlo and foreign com
merce, provision for a merchant mar
ine and for a commission to Investi
gate railroads and aid them.
CLEAR FRENCH FROM
WERE FOREST
Berlin, May 31. All Frenoh troops
have been cleared from the forests
south of Cumieres, the Germans tak
ing 91 prisoners, it was officially an
nounced today. ' .i '
"Enemy torpedo boats whloh ap
proached he coast on the western
front were driven off by artillery.'"
said 1 lf Wtfment.; "Between , lia
Hassen anai and Arras there was
lively .Aghtlng.f' .'" '
Thiitr-elxlit British were cantured
la a stocssril , German enterprise
near Neuv Chappell. together with
18 machine auns. A baval cannnn
and I aVptltyjof mlns throwers were
taken fa trie Csurett woods Monday.
COME
WITH SUPPOR
RAHZAISAUSTRI
Presence cf 0. S. Trccps fa
Mexico Will Be Ccnsid:red
"Udriccdly hvas.ca', Ua
fos Reassss Are Given
Washington, May 31. Withdrawal
of American troop from Mexico as
an "evidence of good faith on behalf
of the United States," wa requested
In Provisional President Carransa's
latest note, delivered today at the
state department. .
Pending withdrawal, Currant asks
a definite explanation of reasons for
keeping the expedition in Mexico, and
wants to be informed of its present
purpose there. He declared the Amer
ican fore was remaining idle.
If tb troops do not withdraw, and
there 1 no explanation, Mexico, the
communication asserted, would be oh
"red to consider the presence of
j UI ted States soldiers an unfriendly
UtSiOO. '
: The note is lengthy, detailing the
whole situation beginning with the
Vlllista raid on Columbus, It Is now
admitted that Special Agent Meade
of the constitutionalist government
brought tbe note.
VOTES FOR 1
y
Chicago, May 11. Members of ths
congressional union were pursuing
male politicians today to secure suff
rage planks in the national platforms.
Elsie Hill secured . O. K. Davis'
promise for a hearing before the pro
gressiva national committee.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Oatt arrived
today. She took Immediate command
of th "Votea for Women" operations,
"Our organisation (the national as
sociation) la not forming a women's
party." declared Mrs. Catt. "We are
leaving that to the congressional
union, but we are going to ask for
suffrage planks In all platforms."
Maud Younger is slated to deliver
tbe keynote address at thie woman's
party convention, June 5. Thirty-
Ave thousand women will parade on J
June 7.
IT
Chicago, May 31. -With prcslden-
tlal politics hourly 'becoming more
BOOSTERS
BUS
OF ATTACK 81 RQOSEV
Intense. the camp of Justice Charles I To this Hitchcock made reply:
Bvana Hugh's came tn for a general "The concerted attack whioh man
bombardment today. George von I nd Publicity agents are mak-
Meyer. former secretary of the navy, ing 00 " advocates shows how
now chairman- of the Roosevelt Re- formidable they consider the Hughes
publican league, fired some of the nivftient. It Is helping, not hurt
heaviest shots. ,ng tna" movement. I have been
"I understand that Frank Hitch- wthout direct communication with
cock visited Hughe a week ago, then tor months. I came here on
saw Governor Whitman, came here mv owu responsibility for what I
and .launched a Hughes "boom.M- de- the best interests or the re-
clared Meyer, vThe country Is' fao- Publican party and the country. No
Ing crisis. . Big business is for TOan coul refuse the nomination in
Roosevelt. He Is the only man who UmM theM f -b partx felt ihe
oar meet the situation. Our organ- couM l- nl 't to victory."
Uatlon' is perfected In almoM very Senator Weeks arrived her today
state, and our chances are bright." nd conferred with' Vlrtor Rosewater,
Supporters of Klihn Root 1; and Omaha "Newspaperman, former vice
Roosevelt alleged that Hitchcock; chairman of the Republican National
.ormrr oncnmifr general, nau maa
Inroads on th southern delegation
m--,- umi mmm ne weuia
ITALIANS
Two Fcrtiid Towns Takta
by Tcctca (Arny Under
30,388 P&ciirs Cciptiired
Vienna, May II. Austrian, under
Archduke Frederick, have conquered
the fortified towns of Arsiero and
Arsiego,5 upon which rested tho
Italians' main defenses, It was offi
cially announced today.
The forts were stormed and cap
tured. Othj Important positions,
Including Monte Baldo, cava also
been taken, it was declared,
"Since the Austrian offensive be
gan a fortnight ago wa have cap
tured 10,111 Italians, including 694
officers," said th statement ,
Vienna, May ' 11. Plunging
through, the Posina mountain tor
rent west of Arsiero, Austrian troop
today are threatening to aurroand
Arsiero forest, K was officially aa
nouned. Lively ' artillery - fighting
was reported on th Russian' front
The Balkans are calm. v
K. B. CALVIK MAY Bat.v's.;:;. '.
miOJr PACIFIC PRESIDENT
Omaha, May II. -When Union Pa
cific directors meet this afternoon
they will elect E. B. Calvin president
of the system, according to reports
here today. Calvin is at present con
nected with the Oregon Short Line.
The reports assert he Is slated to suc
ceed A. L. (Mohler at the head of
Union Pacific affaire July 1. Calvin
has worked his way from a telegraph
operator to the top In railroad life.
jrrSTICB HUGHES HAS ; : -"NOTHING
TO SAY"
Washington, May . 11. Justice
Hughes remained silent today with
regard to becoming a candidate for
president He directed his secretary
to reply "Nothing to say." to all in.
qulries. ,
MARSHALL TO BS NAMED
BY KERN FOR SECOND PLACE
Washington, May II. Senator
Kern will nominate Thomas R. Mar
shall for vicepneeldent at the demo
cratic national convention, it was
learned today. ,
distribute patronage if Hughes were
elected.
omnmuiea i ue nearing - or . aeie-
Jfates' contest for seats In the ball;
wwwrei. , ' i '
0
CEIIIEII
FIT JAUS
AH W GUI Era
mo MKinniT fit
Hull UiliQII PACIFIC
New York, May 31. B. E. Calvin,
of tbe Oregon Short Line, was elected
president of the Union Pacific rail
road today, succeeding A. L. Mohler,
whose resignation was accepted. Tbe
change la effective July 1. " .
Calvin began his career as a rail
road telegrapher for the Indiana, Cin
cinnati and LsFayette road in 1175,
near Indianapolis, where he was born
in 1858. ; He occupied various posi
tions with the Union Pacific between
1882 and. 1887, serving conductor,
dispatcher and station agent Ha be
came division superintendent of the
Missouri Pacific in 1187. In 1811
he took 'a similar office with the
Union Pacific leaving four years later
to accept the position of general
superintendent of the International 4
Great Northern." In 1108 lie went to
tbe Oregon Short Line a assistant
general manager, remained a year
and became vice-president and gen
eral manager of the Oregon Railroad
k Navigation company. Ia 1105
wu Tlce-presldent- and general man
ager of the Southern Pacific. Two
years ago he was appointed viee-
p resident and general manager of the
Oregon Short Line at Salt Lake City.
TEDDY SPEWS TO
suoaiscn
St Louis, May 81. Colonel Roose
velt came to St Louis today the city
with the second largest German
American population in the country
tor tbe purpose of urging the elimin
ation of the hyphen. . Despite his
sweltering experience in Kansas CKy,
he was in fine fettle. Massed crowd
at the railroad station fttere yelled a
greeting. He was taken to the Plant
ers' hotel, where 800 had assembled
for a formal "breakfast" Roosevelt
received a rousing welcome. :
"I've come because I wish to speak
on two cardinal points for th people's
aecuion," said the colonel In response
to demands for a speech. 'Those
points are Americanism and prepared
ness. What I aay this morning on pre
paredness wont touch on politics,
least of all with anything connected
with myself. I am fighting for prln-
ciples and I will fight for them wher
ever tbey are found In any party or
any individuals.
"Wlhen I say I am against (hyphen
Ism, I mean it. I am no more English
American than German'-American. . I
would be Just aa much against aaLtfc ,
cusuBu-Auierican aiuance as against I
a German-American alliance. . They
are both anti-American. Whatever '
defects I may have, I dont pussy-foot. I
If you wanted to express my connec
tion with any old world land you
would have to use seven hyphens,
Th A Ahfitrman In 4nfhuliiAtnw ma 1
,u..iniuuUa urn,
..mb. A 1 .1 . J .
ence. That declaration lasts "because
the men who signed It executed it at
the risk of their lives. It it had been
merely a collection of fine words
magnificent elocutionary effort no-'
body would remember that It ever had
been written.
"Let us remember that our duty Is 1,n tre,cn. wnicn . naturally waa
not to use a word unless we mean It. bandoned.
Don't use an abstract word unless you 1 South of Cumieres tbe German as
are ready to apply It to concrete saults. were so violent that the Frenoh
action.' ,; relinquished their works west of. tho
Roosevelt's auditors variously In- river and retreated along tlw rail
terpreted his remarks as Indicating a to Chattancourt station, halt a
readiness to amalgamate with the re- mil east of the village. Taking shot
publicans if they support bis beliefs tor behind the enVbankmeat they
or a determination to again herald fought along the railway all afber-
thOBe principles through a third party,
Not In months has Roosevelt been sounded "charge," ' and the defend
so denunciatory as In his treatment of rs left their shelters,' meeting fl
the president's beliefs, expressed in Germans bayonet to bayonet, send
his Arlington cemetery speech! yea- lag them back the way they bad ad
terday. . H ecored Wilson' "uni- vanced. A German detachlnent, whloh. i
versal volunury lervlce,"- declaring managed to reach theJMeus was awr-,
that the word "voluntary" was within rounded and annihilated. '
the scop of utterances .Roosevtft had
previously characterised as "weasel
worda," - . ' ' 1 v
A
100TIIH
OF BATTLE
ATM
Crcwit Prfcce Erfcj Freeh
cf Pircr f.!:r2 fa
fjzzzm hgbit Frc::i
Paris, May : 81. Th hundredth
day of terriflc fighting at Verdua
found Crown Prince Frederick Wil
liam bringing fresh German legion
into wotion amid the roar of great
guns west of the river Mease. Tho
Teuton offensive Initiated Sunday
was the final supreme effort design
ed to pierce the French lines, oritlcs
agreed today, '..-'.r-t1
All the battles of history have beea
eclipsed by the volume end violence'
of artillery firing and the frequency
and Intensity of infantry attacks tX
Verdun. Every man that could pos
sibly be spared from other positions
along the lines hss been sent into the
fight ' . ". -. ,;.?:v-'
Th kalnor has tMn rnnnrtiul p.
turning to Verdun to witness the
final titanic struggle:
' Tor datva Garnaii tntaa tia-ft hM
unloading fresn olvieions from Rus
sia, and. it la rumored that largo
forces of Austrian are also en routs
to Verdun. Swiss accounts declared
Emperor Francla Joseph had beea
asked to share in the grand assault
Some observers believe the Austrian
smash against Italy was merely a
blind to cover the shifting of Aus
trian armies to" Verdun. .
'Before' this week ends, It is fore
casted, the crown prince will be ham
mering at Verdun's defenses with 1,
000.000 men. The French people
are calm, scanning the war office's
hnlletln with troat iniaraat ha
fldent that K General Nevielte retire
nno the northwest forts he will .
maintain them with the same ten
acity that halted Germans north and
northeast of the citadel.
'French evacuated their first line'
trenches south of Caurette woods and
retired south of Cumieres toward
Chattan court under the most violent
'attacks the oldest veterans bad ever
experienced, it was officially admit
ted. ,:--v--'--o'v "
By counter-attacks at midnight,
however, the French regained losses
What is termed the most intense
fighting of the entire campaign raged
on th northwestern front throughout
yesterday. It rew more furious to-
t ward nightfall and was continuing
.early today. . Between the Mouse and
Dead Man's bill Germans repeatedly
- . t i x
v m iivui, V vu uu VUB-
.half miles. The desperate charges
iwere shattered again and again, until
the trampled turf was littered with
mangled bodies. - .
Mieanwhlle German batteries sent
cores of high explosive shells Into
the French defenses, leveling a first
noon. At twilight the French bugles
Gexmaas who 'penetrated trenches
eastiof Seffera 4a Alsaos war ousted
by tounter-attack.i
.V
