XOTIJKK oold niht scheduled.
Are your comforts to bo shared
wiili tlie Kxr ttud reedy?
Ylf EATHER FORECAST for Kansas:
Probable snow tonight and Thurs
day; continued oold. .
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA, KANSAS, WEDNESDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 20, 1916 TEN PAGES
TWO CENTS .
REFUGEE HORDES
FROM RUMANIA
POUR IN RUSSIA
Thousands of Stricken People j
Flee Across Frontier.
Russia Faces Serious Problem
of Caring for Them.
IEBIGAN RELIEF TO AID.
Helps Finpress' Organization
Feed the Kumanians.
Refugees Filling Odessa,
and Other Cities.
Kiev
Prtrograd. Dec. 20. The passage
across the Russian frontier of thou
Kinds of Rumanians who have aban
doned their houses and property in the
fa.-e of the invadins Germans and Bul
K.irians has rast the shadow of a new
ri.fnse problem on the Russian em
pire. These refusers have been pour
ing in to Odessa, Kiev and other
southern Russian cities in a destitute
and h !'le? condition and present a
problem which threatens to be more
difficult than any which has confront
ed a belligerent power since the inva
sion of Belgium.
Russet has only partly succeeded in
colonizing anil assimilating the mil
lions of homeless Poles, Jews and
members of other races who fled to
the interior during the first year and
a half of the war. This is naturally
the worst time of the year in which to
care for refugees anrl the economic
readjustment which the present polit
ical crisis has emphasized adds to the
difficulty of clothing anil supporting
the refugees.
The Annriran relief committee
headed ty Thomas YVhittemore and
working in conjunction with the Ta-
tiana committee organized by the em
has made valuable contributions
t in1 relief work and is now devot
iTiir its em-reif!? to meet the Ruman
ian problems. Temporary barracks
and numerous food kitchens have been ;
established at all distributing centers;
to receive the incoming Rumanians, j
From ih-e places the Rumanians will j
be sent to the interior.
TO BE HERE FRIDAY;
Battery "A" Cannot Be Brought !
to Topeka Thursday.
TJiis Is Announcement Made1
hy Lieutenant Bartel.
I dered here yesterday morning, were
Ilarterv A. of the First Kansas artil- I still in the custody of the police today,
Itv will not arrive in Topeka until - and told different stories as to how and
Kridav afternoon, according to Lieu- j when they last saw Sim alive,
tenant A. O. Bartel. who visited To- - Fitzpatrick said he took Sim and
P-k:i this morning from the camp in 1 Miss Miller in his automobile to the
Fort Rib y j Bray hotel shortly after midnight. Sim,
Lieutenant R-trtel di. not assign any the chauffeur said, was intoxicated.,
reason for the change in the plans ; Fitzpatrick said he got out of motor
of the battery, which was expected to car and tried to help Sim into the
arrive in Topeka Thursday morning. j hotel. Sim, he said, pulled away from
"We're all ready to move. The phys- j him and ran across the street. Sim
icwi examination of the men has been clung to the back of a motor car an-:l
c.itniileted, the property has been ! would not permit Fitzpatrick to take
chrkt-d over, and everything that j him away. Fitzpatrick and Miss Miller
can be boxed up has been, all ready j then drove to the Jefferson hotel, he
for the trip," said Lieutenant Bartel.. i said, and declared he did not see Sim
Ho Is 1'roiK-rty Officer. t afterward.
Lartel in property officer of the bat- J Police believe that Sim left the
tery. and has had charge of the check- (Hotel Bray in company with another
inn of the organization's property from t man and a chauffuer, posibly Fitz
the ownership or the federal govern- i Patrick, and shortly afterward was
ment to that of the state, at the Fort, murdered.
The men are all anxious to get to ; Edna Miller is a good looking young
their homes, the officer stated, and; woman of 22 years, and was dressed
will appreciate the arrangement which stylishly today,
will give them a chance to get their- Sim Talked of Death,
traps disposed of as soon as possible! Sim talked of death several times
after they get to Topeka, and send the night he and Miss Miller visited
them to their homes. (numerous cafes, the woman told Chief
"We'll get to the fair grounds as ; Ghent later,
rniickly as possible, store our material; "Once he said he'd give anybody
in the stables there, turn the horses ,$500 to kill him, that he did not have
In and feed them, and hike for home," , the nerve to do it himself," she relat
id Lieutenant Bartel. "The battery ed, adding that Sim continually talked
to k with it to the border ten horses, j about his wife from whom 'he had
and is returning with 3:.'. While on ! separated
Die li.
urder. the extra horses were pro- j
vuled by the federal government.
(.lad to Ot I'ack
Lieutenant Bartel says that he en-!
joyed the stay on the border only for'
its educational value. "That's the
worst country in the world," he stated j
with conviction, referring to Eagle ;
l'ass. j
The work at Fort Hiley which 's I
bein carried on by the battery
officers and the federal mustering of-
firer. consists solely of office work, ; """ '""" o ciock jvion-
t'! checking over of the m isUr and mht- He bought wine, she said,
pavrolls and other lists. i and sP!nt hls money lavishly. They
There is approximately a quarter I enBaBd a motor car. They went to
..f a million dollars worth of equip- aeera.1 cabarets after leaving there,
ment. counting both the ordnance and ! an? then to a hotel. She said at 12:45
the quartermaster s supplies, which i" cJck sn? went with Sim Daclt to the
the batterv has to look after. ' Jefferson hotel, where she left him in
, ! the company of a man she had pre-
rD pi ITTrn rvrfl ITCn : vlously introduced him to. This man's
tMn-OU I I tn tAtOU I tU name, she said, she had forgotten.
! In reciting their movements Mon-
Villistas Killinl in riattlo. ing the Jefferson hotel. There they
registered as man and wife, she said,
Juarez. Dec. 20. Baudelio t ribe. a i using a fictitious name,
follower of Villa who is said to have l Charles Hushes, a necro waiter at
instituted the practice of cutting off ; the Jefferson grill, told detectives last
the ears of C'arranza prisoners and , night he waited upon Sim and Miss
seventeen of his hand were executed ; Miller and that Sim had "handfuls of
by "Home guards" and many Villa j money." He bought nothing but
troops killed in a battle southwest of wie, the waiter said, and drank heav
Chihuahua City, a member of the j Hy. -.
"Home guards" reported today. j Woman Furnishes Clue.
rirr til rtn'l ir-T l7nilCr-' The arrest ot Udna Miller came
DIES IN COURT HOUSE1 after a four hours search of the p-
UILU 1,1 wv XJ" ' lice of the Kansas side and the police
, " .... ot this city, guided by a woman who
Ilon'-or rhi i:m f Atc-hi-on Ictlm had gone to the undertaking establish-
of Heart Trouble. ' iCoutinuil on 1'nire Two.)
Atchison. Kan.. Dec. 20. Dr. C. H. S200.000 Atlanfa Store Burns. .
I.inley. a prominent physician here Atlanta, Dec. 20. Fire early today
and a resident of Atchison since 1 866, ' destroyed the J. P. Allen department
dropped dead in the county treasurer's store with an estimated loss of $200,
off.ee at the court house here today. ; 000. Danger of falling walls threat-
here he had gone to pay his taxes. ' ened adjoining business houses and
Hart trouble was the cause of his ; compelled the police to exclude all
"th. J persons from them.
a call to you.
Following this siege of wind and
snow and zero temperatures comes
Christmas! Christmas meaning fam
ily gatherings at happy comfortable
firesides and the awakening of rollick
ing delighted children on the morning.
This is the meaning- of Christmas to
you. But to oiners : xnat is me
question. And you can solve it.
You remember, of course, how the
Confidential Exchange thru Miss
Mabel Adams of Topeka, sent nearly
900 Thanksgiving dinners to the poor
that they might enjoy the spirit of
the day. The Exchange has a larger
task before it this week. Christmas
with its biting winter weather, Christ
mas with its message to the children
of the world, Christmas with its soli
tude in poverty and misfortune this
is the Christmas that faces the Con
fidential Exchange.
If there are tears on little sunken
cheeks in Topeka Christmas morning
the blame must rest on you. You are
the Confidential Exchange. Your do
nations, your aid, your co-operation
is what makes the Exchange.
You can call Miss Adams at No. 565.
A dinner or a present or a slight do
nation will make some family realize
that they really have the happy priv
ilege of celebrating the anniversary
of the birth of Christ.
HE BOUGHT WINE
Arthur Sim Had "Handfuls of
Cash," Waiter Says.
Arrests Bring About Clue to
Former Topekan's Death.
Kansas City, Dec. 20. Three per
sons were under arrest here today in
the police investigation of the death
of Arthur B. Sim, wealthy oil man
of Wichita, Kansas, who was found
dead under the intercity viaduct here
yesterday.
Edna Miller and Harry Fitzpatrick
were arrested last night and early to
day the police took into custody Jo-
seph Macoluso who has been known
, as the husband of the Miller woman.
: No formal charges have been made
: against any of the three.
Edna Miller, the police said, admit'
" ted having been with Sim until mid-
night of Monday night and said she
! introduced him to Fitzpatrick, a
I chauffeur, who drove them to several
cabarets. - Macoluso is a waiter. Tha
police hold to the theory that robbery
! was the motive of the crime and that
! Sim, after beinjr stunned, was thrown.
! still living from an automobile on the
j viaduct to the ground, below,,- the fall
. ' caunlrts- h14 death.
rr. R. W. Hissem. brother-in-law of
i Sim, left last night for Wichita with
i the body.
j Stories Don't Agree.
Harry Fitzpatrick, chauffeur and
Miss Edna Miller, the woman last
i known to be with Arthur B. Sim,
: wealthy Wichita, Kan., oil man mur-
"He'd been talking about his wife
all the time." she told Chief Ghent
"He couldn't seem to got hor off his
mind. He cried several times."
It was said the three being held
possibly would be released if the in
vestigation being made bv detectives
check up with their statements.
Spent Money Lavishly.
Miss Miller told detectives at Dolice
; headquarters she was at the Jefferson
GAIN OF INSANE,
JUMP OF TAXES,
IS THIS KANSAS?
Oh, How State Is Slipping, De
clares Harry C Bowman.
Member of Board of Control
Paints Awful Picture.
CHARITY COST IS GREATER
Farm Mortgages Larger Than
Two States Combined.
"Kansas Should Xot Kid Her
self," 3Ir, Bowman States.
Sad, Sad Facts About Kansas.
Increase 108 per cent state charity
patients.
Increase 62 per cent county charity
expense.
Tax increase 110.68 per cent.
State expense increase 100 per cent.
Farm mortgages ISO million dollars.
Bond indebtedness Increase 100 per
cen.
Per capita tax tripled.
Increase population 17 per cent.
Kansas is slipping, according to
Harry C. Bowman of the state board
of control. Her population is lag
ging, her insane and state county
charity patients are increasing at an
abnormal rate. Taxes have jumped
more than 110 per cent in twelve
years. Farm mortgages in Kansas are
larger than in Colorado and Okla
homa combined. Reflections of Kan
sas as she really is, have been sent
by Bowman to the state printer and
will be ready for distribution at an
early date.
Bowman's startling revelation of
conditions in Kansas were made in a
paper entitled "Benevolent and Cor
rectional Work in Prosperous, Prohi
bition Kansas." Without details of the
report on benevolent work in the
state. Bowman's paper brings to the
front some of the records and facts
which have often been overlooked by
proud native Kansans. Bowman ad
mits Kansas is one of the greatest
states in the nation. But Bowman be
lieves Kansas should not kid herself
into the belief that the state is at the
head of the league in all branches of
the governmental game.
Many authorities are quoted by
Bowman in his statement sis to condi
tions Jn Kansas, but always he goes to
(Continue) on Page Two -
INAUGURAL PLANS
Chamber of Commerce to Haye
Charge of Ceremonies.
Committee Appointed Today to
Work Out Details.
The Chamber of Commerce will be
in charge of the inauguration of the
governor and other state officers,
January 8. That was a decision
reached today at a meeting of state
house officials and a committee of the
Chamber of Commerce. The inaugu
ration, at the governor's request, will
not be a sumptuous affair. The ro
tunda will be decorated, bands hired
by the Chamber of Commerce and
other features added.
Committees were appointed of state
officers and members of the Cham
ber of Commerce who will co-operate
in working out-the plan for the inau
guration. Xhe committees include
Earl Akers, state treasurer; W. E. Da
vis, state auditor; Charles H. Sessions,
secretary to Governor Capper, and
Adjutant General C. I. Martin, J. Will
Kelley, C. L. Mitchell and John Wa
ters. HOLD AMERICANS
Missionaries and Others Virtu
ally Captives in Turkey.
May Leave if They'll Remain
Interned for Month.
Washington, Dec. 20. The two
hundred Americans detained In Syria
and Palestine by the Turkish mili
tary authorities have been granted
permission to leave via Beirut, on con
dition that they intern at Beirut for a
month to make valueless any military
information they may have.
The United States had repeatedly
made diplomatic efforts to free the
...i m. ortm& of whom are mis-
! sionaries and others naturalized citi
I zens and until now each effort has
been thwarted by the Turkish mili-
tary commander. Ambassador Elkus
: at Constantinople reported the Porte's
I action to the state department today.
Efforts will be made to have the time
! of internment shortened,
j The cruiser Des Moines, now at
! Alexandria, will go to Beirut to take
j on the refugees.
PAROLE CONVICTS
TO SPEND XMAS
WITH HOME FOLK
Raleigh, N. C. Dec. 20. So they
may spend Christmas at home trusties
in North Carolina prisons and prison
j camps will be paroled for three days
j beginning npxt Sunday. Such instruc
tions have been issued to state and
! county prison authorities by the gov
jernor. State convicts will be required only
j to give their word of honor that they
will return to the prisons by noon, De
I cember 27-
-Tta.'ifeoHesleR.
To S6T? V
mm
s- Wis I cou"
H . aw
(3DCt
v , -
"IT'S ") R6T
Time FOR "Th
KISS" BELOW JERO NOW
Coldest Weather of Year Hits
Kansas Today.
More Snow ' and '' 5 Below
Night's Outlook. (
LIVESTOCK LOSS OVER STATE
Considerable Suffering Report
ed Among Poor.
From 10 to. 30 Degrees Below in
North western' IT. S.'
Today was the coldest day this year
here and temperatures were below
zero in practically all parts of Kansas
last night and this morning. Much
suffering among the poor in the state
has been reported and the blizzard
may cause a loss of livestock. Tem
peratures in nothwestern United
States ranged this morning from 10
to 32 degrees below zero. The mer
cury is expected to drop to 5 degrees
below tonight or tomorrow morning
and more snow is likely tonight. The
snow was general over the state, but
j not heavy enough to interfere serious-
Temperatures today averaged 2 8 de
grees below normal. The wind is
blowing at the rate of tweleve miles
an liour from the north. Following
are hourly temperature readings for
today furnished by the weather bu
reau; 7 o'clock 1
8 o'clock ..... 0
9 o'clock ..... 0
,0 o'clock . . .2
11 o'clock 4
12 o'clock 4
1 o'clock 4
2 o'clock 6
Probably snow with continued cold
weather is forecast. The shippers' fore
cast reads to protect 36-hour ship
ments north and west against tem
peratures of from 5 to 10 below zero;
east, zero to 5 below; south, zero. The
mercury here today was not expected
to go above 5 degrees, and tomorrow
will reach a point between 5 nd 10
degrees above.
The lowest temperature here this
morning was zero at 8 and 9 o'clock.
This is 20 degrees below the night
normal and is 7 degrees below the
previous low mark for this season.
Winter does not bepin officially until
tomorrow, which is the shortest day
of the year. The wind blew at the
rate of from 20 to 25 miles an hour
ICnntinneil on Price" Two.
Well Known Kducator Dies.
New York, Dec. 20. Dr. "Walter B.
Gunnison, principal of Erasmus high
school, Brooklyn, and prominent in
educational circles thruout the coun
try, died early today. Gunnison form
erly practiced law at Madison, Wis.
LETTERS BY THE
THOUSAND SENT
TO "DEAR SANTA"
Washington, Iec. 20. Thousands of
letters addressed to Santa Claus ap-
! pearing: in the mails this week prompt
ed the post office department to re
mind all postmasters of the rule per
mitting the delivery or these communi
cations to charitable institutions or
reputable persons, "who may desire
to use them exclusively for philan
thropic purposes." When letters bear
no postage or when no request is made
I for the letters, they are to be sent to
J the dead letter office.
-The i- irtrt-
!
THE ONE BIG PROBLEM
3oT WoTE
DbhT in
Tt FOCKtT
Book.
(G1HRISIMAS
" i
LOOK WITH ENVY
ON UNCLE SAM'S
STACK OF CHIPS
New Ydrk, Dec. 20. National de
fense is, in poker parlance, just a
question of "how many chips have you
got?" Fihley 3. Sffepard told the Men's
club in Flushing." - 4 '
"The Tjnited States."" he said, "in
order that peace be permanent must
be; prepared to the fullest. " The first
! question Astted when- players sit down
j to a poker game is 'how -many chips
! have you got?'.-, -The United, States
j will have to look sharp in answering
i this question." '
L.M. JONES TO QUIT
Superintendent of Telegraph of
Santa Fe to Other Duties.
Place Is To Be Taken by Horace
C. Chace of Xos Angeles.
L. M. Jones, for the last six years
superintendent of telegraph of the
Atchison. Topeka & Santa Fe system,
headquarters In Topeka, has resigned
his position effective' January 1, 1917,
according to an announcement from
the general offices of the road in this
city today.. "
. Mr. Jones-will be succeeded by Hor
ace C. Chace, commercial superin
tendent of the Western Union at Los
Angeles and former assistant superin
tendent of telegraph of the Santa F3
on the coast lines.
Mr. Jones has been assigned to other
duties with the Santa Fe.
Mr. Jones entered the service of the
Santa Fe on November 3, 1890, as
night operator at Neosno Rapids, Kan.
He was transferred aunost immediate
ly to the despatched office at Arkan
sas City, where he remained until
April 30, 1891. when he came to the
general offices in Tojieka. He was ap
pointed chief clerk January 1, 1895,
and assistant superintendent of tele
graph August 15, J902. His appoint
ment as superintendent of the tele
graph service came July 15, 1910.
Active In Civic Affairs.
Mr. Jones has served two terms as
a member of the city board of educa
tion, and two terms as president of
the board. He has, thruout the twenty-five
years and more of his residence
in. Topeka, been deeply interested in
the civic growth, and has taken a
prominent part in the city's affairs.
He will remain in charge of the
telegraph service temporarily until
Mr. Chace has thwoly mastered the
work of the department. Until the
official announcement ot- his new
position has been made-thru-the cir
cular order, Mr. Jones . declined to
state what the nature of his work is
to be.
$150,000 TO WORKERS
Shoe Factory Bonus Mill Gives
Month's Wages and Turkey.
St. Louis. Mo., Dec. 20. More than
$150,000 will be distributed among the
employees of the International Shoe
company, it was announced today.
Employes in St. Louis factories will re
ceive a weekly bonus, those in other
cities will receive a cash bonus Sat
urday, i
Two hundred and fifty employes of
the Standard-Tilton Milling company
will receive a month's salary and a
turkey as Christmas bonus. Employes
in Dallas. Tex., Alton, Jerseyville and
Rock Bridge, III., will share.
'' ' ! ! V L
' SooO Witt- -il -
- -The -1ownWV M-rt- I
'.S;0TM.-.rfY'.-:. IF iT WOULft If I
m E - IT'S . ONLY COHtTfeot" . W jf
HAVEN'T Hfllf
FiroSnto
- RICH rWI -MAKO
-OUT A
ust Aro s
KNOW- 1 BMTT
BTM WITH
SWEET JONGUES!
These, Not Pretty Faces, Assets
of Telephone Operators.
AH "Hello Girls" Jttust Have
; Good Dispositions. ,
'.-''s-. v' - .. .j i- . ' . .i
SCHOOL IN SESSION TODAY
Miss Trowbridge Instructing
Girls of Independent Ass'n.
Governor Addresses 'Phone
Men's Convention Today.
People can't see a pretty face and
they don't know, or care, whether she
is trying to do her best if she hasn't
a good disposition a girl has no bus
iness being a telephone operator. A
good disposition is the chief essential
of . successful telephone girl. Miss
Oma Trowbridge, chief operator of
the Kansas Telephone company, told
thirty independent telephone opera
tors at the National hotel today. Miss
Trowbridge is conducting the opera
tors' school at the annual convention
of the Kansas Independent Telephone
association in session today and to
morrow. The work of a telephone operator
differs from that in any other bus
iness, Miss Trowbridge told the opera
tors. It is the one business where
personal charm or personality has
nothing whatever to do with success.
Only thru a sweet -disposition can an
operator keep the public good natured
and then, even a sweet disposition of
ten fails.
Why They Do It.
"People wouldn't think of talking
to a girl's face the way they do to
her over a telephone," said Miss Trow
bridge. "And, no one has any idea,
how trying it is to hear complaints
hour aitor hour of service that you
are not responsible for in any way.
Lnless a girl has a sweet disposition
it is impossible for her to answer such
complaints politely."
Miss Trowbridge also went into the
technical points surrounding the
adual operation of the switchboard
Economy can be practiced by a tele
phone girl just the same as by thoso
employed in othr positions.
Mutual Troubles.
The mutual companies probacy
have more troubles than the inde
pendent companies. The mutuals ere
finding that the H. C. of L. is almost
certain to cause them to raise their
rates, T. L. Toumans of Osi-watomie,
president of the association, stated, to
day. That is causing the mutuals to
join the association and it may be pos
sible that resolutions on the necessity
of an almost general increase in rates
will be presented tomorrow by the
resolutions committee; .
Technical subjects occupied the
morningsession of the convention. Val
t Con ti n on Ia ge Two.
SH-H-! PRESIDENT
PAYS MYSTERIOUS
VISIT ON SENATOR
Washington, Dec. 20. President
Wilson surprised everyone today when
he suddenly left the White House and
went to the Sixteenth street home of
Senator John Sharp Williams, Missis
sippi, shortly after nine o'clock.
White House attaches said they were
unable to offer explanation for the
visit
The president stayed at the senator's
home more than an hour.
EXPORT PAPER
WHILE U. S. HAS
PAPERJAMINE
United States Sends $40,000,000
Worth Abroad in Year.
This Despite Publishers at
Home Face Shortage Crisis.
FACTOR IN INCREASED PRICE
Old Bags Market Is Glutted, De-
clare Junk Dealers.
Price of Sisal Increase
to
Make Twine Cost More.
Washington, Dec. 20. Exports of
paper and paper manufacture this
year will reach 40,000,000, doubling
those of any previous year, according
to figures assembled today by the bu
reau of foreign and domestic com
merce. Increasing exports, some pub
lishers charge, has been one factor in
increasing prices for news print paper.
News print paper exports this year
have reached a total value of $3,430,
000 against $2,260,000 last ear, about
half of it going to Latin-America. The
largest purchaser was Argentina,
which took $905,000 worth: Cuba was
second with $365,000: Australia third
with $302,000 and the United Kingdom
fourth with. $233,000.
Mills Won't Take More Rags.
New York, Dec. 20. The present
high cost of paper is not due to a
scarcity of rags and old paper stock,
according to officers of the National
Association of Waste Material dealers
who are in quarterly session here.-
"The phenomenally high prices paid
for old rags and old paper," said an
officer of the association, "encouraged
early in the year the bringing out of
vast stores of these goods. We dis
pose of these materials to the paper
manufacturers, but in recent months
the latter have assured us repeatedly
that they were not in the market.
"The fact of the matter is that the
paper mills are getting all of the waste
material they need."
Sisal Jumps Three Cents.
New York, Dec'. " 20. American
manufacturers of rope and twine have
been notified of an increase of 3 cents
a pound in th price of sisal. It was
announced here today by the sisal
regulating commission which markets
the Mexican crop.' The visible supply
has been reduced because of the heavy
Yucatan storms nd shortage of -labor
in the sisal districts-. "
BUILD IN ST. LOUIS
Santa Fe and Northwestern in
a New Agreement. . -
Big Lines in Monster Transcon
tinental Move.
St. Louis, Mo., Dec., 20. -Arrangements
are virtually completed by
which the Chicago & Northwestern
railroad and the Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe railway system will enter St.
Louis, construct their own terminals
for a new transcontinental road, the
center of which will be St. Louis.
A new passenger station in St.
Louis, probably located in North St.
Louis, and new and private freight
terminals in both North St T.nnia nH
in the neighborhood of the Mill Creek j 5ration and "ecurity which the allies
valley are among the plans. demand from the central powers.
, Information concerning what ap-1 Negotiations Possible "
pears to be one of the most important The Daily News points out there is
railroad developments in the middle possibility of negotiations being un
west for many years, indicates that the . dertaken. notwithstanding the strone
two roads will be Joini competitors of ! statement of the premier and Lord
the Terminal railroad. j Curzon and their endorsement by
The Chicago & Northwestern rail- " TDaHy NewTS thaT Zl,
7 IS a 2" ,( 8'0 ""7y8 banged aandhebodHe
S"eeS'tah"d Tlt5u,d-r?.H"-"d th-at the "?-. t refusal of
Its terminals at Chicago. Duluth and
Omaha mark the outskirts of one of
the greatest common carrier networks
I in the country. Operating in co-oper-i
ation with the Santa Fe, it forms a
! solid mycelium of travel service
blanketing the entire northwest and
southwest United States.
WILL INSURE COTTON
Protect I. S. Sliipments to England
Ginned Product Increases.
Galveston, Tex., Dec. 20. Arrange
ments have been made by the British
government to insure all cotton on
line steamers without the vessels being
named specifically in the contract. The
prevailing government rate is now 1.15
per cent. A further decrease is ex
pected shortly.
183.403 Bales Ginned in V. S.
Washington, Dec. -20. Cotton gin
ned prior to December 13 amounted
to 10,845.989 running bales, including
183,403 round bales and 110,448 bales
of sea island, the census bureau an
nounced today.
Last year to December 13 ginning
amounted to 10,306.308 bales or 93.1
per cent of the entire crop and in 1914
they were 12,972.229 bales, or 87.8 per
cent of the crep.
YEGGS GET $20,000
Rob Sklatook, Okla., Bank
Xlgut and Escape.
During
Tulsa. Okla.. Dec. 20. Robbers en
tered the Cklahoma National bank of
Skiatook, Okla..' blew open the safe
and escaped with $20,000 in currency
and silver early today.
wniie xne roooers ieti no ciue, it is i iweive iarm loan hanks to be estab
thought they escaped in an automo- i lished thruout the country. Rome
bile. However, they had several hours time ago the boaid announced hat it
start on posses whjch formed in Tu'.sa hoped to m.ike public the location of
and Skiatook early today, as the tele-1 these banks December 20. but It was
phone and telegraph wires leading said today that the districts and lo-a-into
the small town, ten miles north of t Ions in some instances were still un
Tulsa were cut authorities said. 1 determined.
DOOR NOT BOLTED
AGAINST GERMAN
PEACEPROPOSAL
If. Germany Is Sincere, Way
Open to Prove It.
"It's Your Move, but Don't
Come Again in Role of Victor."
PEOPLE BACK LLOYD-GEORGE
Endorse Jfew Ministry's 1 Pro
posed Government Reforms.
Communize British Resources
in 'Out-Germanizing Germans.
London. Dec 20. The allies havei
not slammed the door on peace; they
have simply said to Germany:
"Here are our terms; take them, pt
leave them. It is your move -"hut
don't come again In the role 61 a vib
tor." .
This was the universal British view
today, when the public had an oppor
tunity to digest the full meaning of
Premier Lloyd-George's speech In
commons. The public interpretation
wa3 that Lloyd-Geoige had furnished
von Bethmann-Hollweg an opportun
ity to demonstrate his sincerity. If
Germany really desires peace, they ar
gued, she now knows how to go about
It
- Doesn't Control Allies.
Incidentally, It was remarked her
today how adroitly and strikingly
Lloyd-George had destroyed Ger
many's illusion that England Is dom
inating the policies of the entente na
tions. The premier, it was recalled,
had stated at the outset that Russia
and France, acting independently and
separately, had reached the conclusion
to which England was now acceding.
Lloyd-George's .plan for universal
national service and civilian mobili
zation, moulding the nation into an
army behind the army, was popularly
accepted today as tho it were 'the
simplest routine of peace times.
Not a complaint, not the slightest
thought of opposition was manifest.
Nationalize Minos and Slopping. '
The press and the man in the street
reflected the universal sentiment
"the country's with Lloyd-George;
what does he want us to do?"
Impending nationalization of ship
ping and minee has been anticipated
for some time, and the Welsh miners
alone had objected to nationalization
of their fields. Taking over of ship
ping by the government has likewise
(.been expected, as commerce has long
oeen wie target or measures by those
seeking to cut down war profits.
Everywhere the new plans were re,
garded as "out-German-ing the Ger-i
mans" in a concentrated, eommunl
ized effort to swing all resources to
the war.
Press Approves of Speech.
The bulk of the morning papers
agree that Premier Lloyd-George ex
pressed the views of the British na
tion in his speech in the house of
commons dealing with Germany's
peace proposal.
"Premier Lloyd-George," says the
Times, "expressed the thoughts and
wishes of the nation and laid down a
program which will command i its
hearty support." ,
This is the tone of the comment-In
most of the other papers who hold
that the premier's answer and also
Lord Curzon's speech In the house of
lords are "moderate In phrase, firm
and unanswerable in substance."
The papers declare that the nation
is prepared and will willinglv under
take all the sacrifices foreshadowed
and will face greater privation, ir
i necessary to insure those end rt
'offer is not meant to lndicat "that the
allies do not wish peace, but that Ger
many must ask it in the role of the
vanquished and not the victor. The
News expresses the hope that the al
lies will speedily agree on precise
terms on which they will be willing to
negotiate. Even the Mail, which has
always demanded extreme measures
against Germany, nays:
"There is no obstacle whatever to
peace if Germany really wants It. 8he
has merely to withdraw from the oc
cupied countries and we are willing
enough to discuss reparation and
guarantees for the future."
FLOUR MILLS TO QUIT
V. P. Km bar go at Omaha Seriously
Affects Minneapolis Industry.
Minneapolis, Dec. 20. Announce
ment today b ythe local offices of ths
I'nion Pacific railway that Minneapolis
freight would not be accepted at
Omaha. Neb., after December 26, add
ed to the seriousness of the situation
brought about here by the shortage
of freight cars, and leading millers de
clared that all local flour mills would
, dmn Tmnrnv.rt ifJL. .7..'
aii snipments rrom here for Chi
cago, Milwaukee, Kansas City and
Omaha were being accepted by rail
roads today subject to embargoes
The order of the Union Pacific,
which will be in effect until January
7, was issued with a view of clearing
congested terminals.
Announce Farm Loan Banks SoonT
Washington. Dec. 20. The federal
farm loan board expects to announce
within a few days the locntixn r.f h.
