1D1G
VOL. LVIII. WO- 305
PRICE TWO CENTS
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, 'CONN., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 191 6
" - 21 ' .
12 PAGES 96 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in. Proportion to the City's Population.
Teutons Moving ;
Boston Strongly
Condensed Telegrams
Six inches of snow fell in Tennes
see. VIOLENT BREAK IN PRICES OF STOCKS
Following Publication of the Remarks of Lloyd-Georga
on Lower Danube
in Favor of License
The Chiean bark Viva, from Norfolk,
August 31, for Valparaiso, is afire at
Pernambuco, Brazil.
- f oji German Peace Proposals
RUSSIANS RETREAT PAST NEWLY
FORTIFITD POSITIONS
LARGEST VOTE EVER CAST TH ERE
Capt. Robt. Duncan, who was cap
tain of the America Cup challenger
Thistle in 1S87, is dead.
Nearly $10,000 for the relief of Poles
in the war zone was subscribed at a
mass meeting at Philadelphia.
ON LICENSE QUESTION .
CONFUSION AND PERPLEXITY IN WALL STREET
ABANDONED PROVISIONS
A MAJORITY OF 23,462
1723
fox 1
COMPLETE RESTITUTION,
Are the Only Considerations on Which Entente Allies
Will Consider Peace Proposals of Central Powers
LLOYD-GEORGE SO INFORMS MOUSE OF COMMONS
British Prime Minister Asserts That the Allies Must Know
That Germany is Willing to Accede to the Allies' Terms
Before Her Peace Proposals Will be Given Favorable
Consideration Declares Prussian Military Spirit Must
be Curbed New Premier Has Prepared a Programme
That Holds Every Citizen Liable for Enrollment to Per
form the Work for Which the Authorities Consider Him
Best Equipped Former Premier Asquith Has Issued
Statement Commneding Stand Taken by Lloyd George
Formal Answer of Great Britain Will be Forthcoming in
a Few Days.
London, Dec. 19. The announcement
In the house of commons today by
David Lloyd George, the new prime
minister, that the first act of his ad
ministration was the rejection of the
propoB&l of the central powers for a
peace conference constituted one of
the most momentous scenes which the
oldest parliamentary veterans had
ever witnessed.
The new premier declared that be
fore the allies could give favorable
consideration to such an invitation,
they must know that Germany was
prepared to accede to the allies' terms,
rivingr "complete restitution, full re
paration and effectual guarantees,"
and "to enter a conference upon the
Invitation of Germany, proclaiming
herself victorious, without any knowl
edge of her proposals would be put
tins our heads into a noose with the
end of the rope In Germany's hands.
Dragging Belgians Into Slavery.
Mr. Lloyd George asser?5 t t,
" tltT moment Germany was penning
the note, asserting her convictions as
to the rights of other nations, she was
dragging Belgians into slavery. He
announced that the note presented
through Washington contained no pro
posals of terms, but was a paraphrase
of ' Chancellor von Bethmann-HolU
weg'a speech and that the allies had
separately concluded to reject it, al
though though they had Informally
exchanged views and would within a
few days present a joint reply.
Asquith Stands With Lloyd George.
Mr. Asquith, the former premier,
seconded Mr. Lloyd George's decision
With even stronger words and almost
at the same moment Earl Curzon was
Informing the lords that the govern
ment would enter no conference that
did not guarantee for Europe the free
and Independent existence of nations
great and small. The Marquis of
Crewe affirmed the approval of the
members of the late government.
Important Day in the Commons.
The day was a doubly important one
for the commons, because the new
premier unfolded his programme for
Wide-reaching war measures and Mr.
Asquith closed the last chapter of hi3
nine years of leadership with an ac
counting of his war stewardship.
The principal feature of Mr. Lloyd
George's programme is a measure for
national service matching Germany's
latest scheme, whereby every citizen
will be liable for enrollment, tS per
form work for' which the authorities
consider him best equipped.
Arthur Neville Chamberlain, mayor
of Birmingham, and a member of the
famous family whose energy and bus
iness capacity are rated high, will be
director of the national service, with
civil and military directors responsi
ble to him.
The premier prefaced his review of
the situation by the statement that
Britons did their beat in time of dan
ger, that a country should be told un
pleasant facts and that he would give,
not a dark, but a stern view of the
outlook, and continued:
Greatest War Ever Waged.
"It Is the greatest war ever waged;
the burdens are the heaviest that have
been cast upon this or any other coun
try, and the issues the gravest that
have been attached to any conflict in
which humanity was. ever involved.
"The responsibilities of the new gov
ernment have been suddenly accentu
ated by the declaration made ly the
German chancellor.. The statement
made by him in the reiefhstag has been
followed by a note presented by the
United States without note or com
ment. The answer given by this gov
ernment will be given In full accord
with all our allies.
"Naturally there has been an Inter
change of views, not upon the note, be
cause it has only recently arrived, but
upon the speech which impelled it and
as the note itself is pra'otically only
. reproduction or a paraphrase of the
(peedh, the subject matter of the note
Itself has been discussed Informally
between the allies. I am glad to be
ible to state that we each separately
md independently arrived at identical
conclusions.
France and Rusia First to Answer.
"I am very glad that the first answer
riven to the statement of the German
rhanoellor was given by France and
Russia. They have the unquestionable
night to give the first answer to such
in invitation. The enemy is still on
'.heir soil and their sacrifices have been
the greater.
"The answer they have given already
tppeared in the papers, and I simply
itand here to give clear and definite
rupport to the statement they have
ready made.
Crime Ocean Could Not Cleasne.
"Any man or set of men who wan
tonly or without sufficient cause pro
longed a terrible conflict like this
would have on his soul a crime that
oceans couia jot cleanse.
"On the other hand, it is equally true
that any man or set of men, who
from H ratiho nf nraarinaeci rtv iacmn;..
. , wu. .i v.jci j . uvoian t
abandoned the struggle without
acmeving ine nign purposes Tor which
we entered it, would be guilty of the
costliest act of poltroonry -ever per
petuated by any statesman. I should
like to quote the words of Abraham
Lincoln after similar conitions; 'We
aenentprt thisi -vcni few , aK-iaw- ,i
a world object and the war will end
rhfin ha aK4.a, ! . i . I 3 . . .
I hope it will never end until that
tune.
"Are we Hkely to achieve the ob
ject hv flerpntintr 4 . a 4nvftn,;.n u
Gorman chaivceliorT A hat are tne pro
poses : mere are none.
"To enter, on the invitation of Ger
many proclaiming herself . victorious,
without any knowledge of what propos
als she proposes to make, into a con
ference, is to put our heads into a
noose with the rope end in the hands
of Germany.
Not Without Experience.
"This country is not altogether with
out experience in these matters. This
Is not the first time we have fought
a great despotism over-shadowing
Europe and it won't be the first time
we have helped to overthrow a mili
tary depotism. Wo have an uncom
fortable historical memory of these
things and can recall one of the great
est of thees despots, whose favorite de
vice was to appear in garb of an angel
of peace, either when he wished time to
assimilate his conquests or to recog
nize his forces for fresh conquests, or,
secondly, when his suhiefto
symptoms of fatigue and war-weari-
uras, iui appeal was always made in
the name of humanity. He demanded
an end to the bloodshed at which he
Drofessed hirrmalf t
he himself was mainly responsible.
Ancestors Were Deceived.
"Our ancestors were taken in once
an bitterly they and EurODe rue' it.
The time was devoted to reorginizing"
m tea Atii- a, ueauiier aiiacK man
ever upon the liberties of Europe.
"Examples of this kind cause us to
regard this note with a considerable
measure of reminiscent disquietude.
"We feel that we ought to know, be
fore we can give favorable considera
tion to such an invitation, that Ger
many is prepared to accede to the only
terms on which it is possible peace
can be obtained and maintained in
Europe. Those terms have been re
peatedly stated by all the leading
statesmen of the allies. They have
been stated repeatedly here and out
side. To quote the leader of the house
!ast week:
Entente Peace Terms.
" 'Reparation and guarantee against
re.pitition, so there shall be no mis
take and. it is important that tlhere
should, be no mistake in. a matter of
life or death to millions.'
"Let me repeat complete restitu
tion, full reparation and effectual guar
antees. "Did the German chancellor use a
single phrase to indicate that he was
prepared to accept such a peace? Was
there a hint of restitution? Was there
a suggestion of reparation? Was
Ziere an implication of any security
for the future, that this outrage on
civilization would not again be per
petrated at the first profitable oppor
tunity. "The very Eubstanoe and style of the
speeoh constitutes a denial of peace
on the only terms on which peace is
possible. He is not even eonscious
now that Germany has committed any
olTense against the rights cf free na
tions. Listen to this, from the note:
" 'Not for an instant have they (the
central powers) swerved from the con
viction that respect of the rights of
other nations is not in any degree in
compatible woth their own rights and
legitimate interests.'
Rights of Other Nations.
"When did they discover this? Where
was reipect for Che rights of other na
tions in Belgium and Serbia? That
was self-defence, menaced, I suppose,
by the overwhelming armies of Bel
gium. I suppose the Germans had
been intimidated Into invading Bel-
villages, into massacring tbousands of
win wutiuiuinu), oia ana young, into
carrying them into slavery at the very
Cabled Paragraphs
Fifth German War Loan.
Amsterdam, Dec. 19, via London. 5.30
p. b. A Berlin despatch eays that
complete statistics regarding the fifth
German war loan show that the total
was 10,698,994,990 marks.
Norwegian Bark Sunk.
London, Dec. 19. 6.10 p. m. The
Norwegian steamer Sjofna, of 627 tons
net, and the Swedish schooner Niord
have been sunk. The Danish barken
tine Jorgenlarsen is believed to have
been sunk.
moment when this note, was being
written, about their unswerving con
viction as to the respect due the rights
of other nations.
Not the Moment for Peace.
"Are these outrages the legitimate
interest of Germany? We must know.
That is no ta moment for peace. It
is excuses of this kind for palpable
crimes can be put forward two and a
half years after exposure by the grim
facts, is there any guarantee that
similar subterfuges will not be used
in the future to overthrow any treaty
of peace you may enter into with
Prussian militarism .'
"The note and speech proves that
they have not yet learned the alphabet
of respect for the rights of others.
"Without reparation, peace is im
possible. Are all these outrages
against humanity on land and sea to
be liquidated by a' few pious phrases
about humanity? Germany leaves us
t oexact the damage for all future vio
lence committed after the war. We
must exact it now, so as not to leave
such a grim inheritance to our chil
dren. ,
"Aluch as we all long for peace,
deeply as we are horrified at war, this
note and speech, which heralded it, do
not afford us much encouragement to
hope for an honorable and lastin
peace.
Boast of Prussian Military Triumph.
"What hope is given in the speech
that the whole root and cause of this
great bitterness, the arrogant spirit
of the Prussian military caste, will
not be as dominant as ever, if we
patch up peace now? The very speech
in which these peace suggestions are
made resounds to the boast of Prus
sian military triumph. It is a long
paean over the victory of Von Hin-denburg-
- "
,i "We must keep, a steadfast eye upon
the purpose for which we entered the
war; otherwise the great sacrifices we
have been making will be in vain. The
German note states that it was for the
defense of their existence and the
freedom of national development that
the central powers were constrained to
take up arms. Such phrases are in
tended to delude the German nation
into supporting the designs of the
Prussian military caste, who ever
wished to put an end to their national
existence or freedom from develop
ment. We welcomed their development
so long as it was in the paths of
peace.
Prussia Has Been Bad Neighbor.
"The allies entered this war to de
fend Europe against the aggression of
Prussian military domination, and,
having begun it, they must insist that
the only end is the most complete ef
fective guarantee against- the possi
bility of that caste ever again disturb
ing the peace of Europe. Prussia,
since she got into the hands of that
caste, has been a bad neighbor, arro
gant, threatening, bullying, shifting
her boundaries at her will, and taking
one fair field after another from her
weaker neighbors and adding them to
her own dominions.
"With her belt ostentatiously full of
weapons of offense, and ready at a
moment's notice to use them, she has
always been an unpleasant, disturb
ing neighbor in Europe. She got thor
oughly on the nerves of Europe; there
was no -peace near where she dwelt. It
is difficult for those who are fortu
nate enough to live thousands of miles
away to understand what it has meant
to those who live near.
France and Russia Menaced.
"Even here with the protection of
the broad seas between us, we know
what a disturbing factor the Prussians
were with their constant naval menace.
But we can hardly realize what it
meant to France and Russia. Several
times there were threats directed
against them even within the lifetime
of this generation which presented the
alternative of war or humiliation.
There were many of us who hoped
that the internal influence in Germa.iy
would be strong enough to check and
ultimately to eliminate it.
"Now that this great war has been
forced by the Prussian leaders, it
would be folly not to see to it that
this swashbuckling through the streets
of Europe and this, disturbance of
peaceful citizens was dealt with here
and now as the most serious offense
against the law of nations.
- "We will wait until we hear what
terms and guarantees the German gov
ernment offer other than those which
she so lightly broke. And meanwhile
we shall put our trust in our un
broken army rather than in broken
faith.
"For the moment I do not think it
would be advisable for me to add
anything upon this particular invita
tion. A formal reply' will be delivered
by the allies in the course of the next
few days."
- -i
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
FAVORABLY IMPRESSED
Entente Answer Does Not Forestall
Further Moves For Peace.
Washington, Dec. 1?. The first of
ficial iTnnrpssinn nf PrmYiifl. T i . a
-- x r . UIUJU
George's reply to the German peace
piuposaas, wiin me announcements of
Russia, Italy and France, is. that it
-..--i - " - .i luvico WIULU
might lead to a discussion of peace
sum tu uie central powers nave sug
gested. This view is held by officials of the
administration and of the German em-
The Russians and Rumanian Troops in
Retreat in Dobrudja Have Reached a
Point Where They Either Must Make
a Stand or Cross the Danube. r
The Russian and Rumanian troop3
who have been in retreat before the
Teutonic allies in Dobrudja, seeming
ly are now at a point where Ihey
either must make a standi or cross the
Danube into southwest Bessaraoia or
into Moldavia in the region of Galafcs
The latest official communication
from Berlin says that in Dobrudja the
Russians have retreated past their
newly fortified positions in the nortii
and that the Teutonic allies are now
advancing toward the lower Danube.
Aside from the announcement of the
capture of more than a thousand Rus
sians and Rumanians and the takin?
of numerous vehicles loaded with pro
visions, no mention is made by Berlin
of the advance in Moldavia. In the
Carpathians the Russians and Teu
tonic allied forces continue fighting,
but with no great victories falling to
either side. '
In all the other theatres artillery en
gagements preponderate, only, small in
fantry actions having taken place any
where. Berlin records attacks favor
able to Turks and Bulgarians in tlia
Struma region of the Macedonian
front.
On the right bank of the Meuse river
in the Verdun sector the French and
the Germans throughout Tuesday
fought spirited artillery duels, espe
cially near Bezonvaux, the Cauritres
wood and Chambrettes. The infantry
of neither side left their trenches.
Reciprocal bombardments took place
along the British front in France and
also along the line in Belgium.
bassy.
Officially Washington virtually is
unanimous, however, in the opinion
t'hta the British premier's speech has
shown that any positive action by the
United State3 toward mediation not
only would be premature -but might
embarrass such action later.
It was stated authoritatively tonight
that for the present the United States
would only act as. an intermediary
transmitting communications between
the belligerents.
The German embassy interprets the
British premier's speech as- opening
the door to a further discussion al
though the German diplomats, inti
mately familiar with the aims and the
views of the central powers, make no
attempt- to conceal their uncertainty
regarding the outcome of such negotia
tions. They feel, however, that if the
note replying to the German communi
cation follows the tenor of thw prem
ier's speech, the entente, from the
Teutonic viewpoint, has done all ex
pected of it and has brought the idea
of a peace conference one step nearer
realization.
"It appears from the British
premier's speech," said Count Bern
storff, the German ambasador, in an
authorized statement, that the answer
of Great Britain will not end. the mat
ter. To me it looks as if there will
be at least one more exchange of notes
which will talk of the future and not
of the past."
LORD CURZON STATES
BRITISH WAR POLICY
Tells House of Lords it Must be Con
ducted With Utmost Prosecution.
London, Dec. 19. In presenting the
policy of the government in the house
of lords, Earl Curzon, who is a mem
ber of the new war council, said:
"The policy of the new government
is that the war must be conducted
with the utmost prosecution; that
there must be an ample return for all
sacrifices: that full reparation must
be made by the enemy for his count
less crimes and security given that
those crimes will not be repeated and
that the sacrifices made shall not have
been made in vain.
"The governments aim is that the.
peace of Europe shall be re-established
on the basis of the free and inde
pendent existence of nations great
and- small and that as regards this
country it shall be free from the men
ace which the triumph of Germany
and the German spirit would entail.
"Our answer to Germany's latest
move must be swift and sure. It is
not too much to ask the people to
take upon themselves for a few
months the obligations which Ger
many has imposed upon herself. The
nation is fighting for its life and is
entitled to the best and fullest service
of its sons." i
AMERICAN. SCHOONER
LOST WITH ALL HANDS
The William Mason Was Bound From
Perth Amboy For Yarmouth, N. S.
Halifax, N". S., Dec. 19. The Ameri
can schooner William Mason, bound
from Perth Amboy for Yarmouth, N.
S., has been lost with all hands, ac
cording to a report received here to
night.
The William Mason left Perth Am
boy on December 6. She registered
388 tons.- She was built in -Wilmington,
DeL. in 1872 and nailed from
Barnstable, Mass.
FELIX DIAZ CAPTURES
PUEBLO AND ORIZABA
Skirmishing Between de Facto and
Villa Forces South of Chihuahua City.
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 19. Pueblo and
Orizaba have fallen into the hands of
soldiers of Felix Diaz and Japapa is
in the hands of other revolutionary
forces, according to reports received
today by United States government
agents here. Skirmishing between de
facto and Villa forces was reported
south of Chihuahua City and near San
ta Rosalia.
Would Bar Liquor Ads From Mails.
Washington, Dec. 19. Representa--five
Good of Iowa, introduced a bill
today to exclude from the mails ,to
states Jn which liquor sales are pro
hibited all newspapers and magazifies
containing: liquor advertisements.
No-License Forces Were Represented
by Many Workers in Every Precinct
Advocates of License Were Con
veyed ot Polls in Brewery Wagons.
Boston, Dec. 19. Boston today voted
to continue the licensed sale of liquor
after the liveliest campaign on the
liquor question that the city nas naa
in years. The votB in favor- of license
was 53,4'59, with 29,997 against. Larst
year the vote for license was 4C.11G
and 31,877 against.
The total vote was the largest ever
cast here on tne license questioi, and
the majority of 23,462 for license has
been exceeded only three times in the
city's history. The largest majority
18,613 was recorded in 1905.
Hundreds of Conveyances.
The liquor question overshadowed
all other . issues in the campaign and
both the license and no-license forces
were represented by many-workers in
virtually every precinct. Hundreds of
conveyances were used to carry voters
to the polls.
Women holding banners bearing pic
tures of small children on which wero
printed the words "Please protect us
by voting no-license" were stationed
in the vicinity of most of the polling
booths. Motor trucks and Drewe.-y
wagons carrying printed appeals to
vote "Yes"' were sest through the city
by the license forces.
Sunday Took Prominent Part.
. Rev- William A. Sunday, who is
conducting an evangelistic campaign
here, took a prominent part in the
light. He delivered several addresses
on the liquor issue and urged the
voters who attended his meetings to
vote "To." The Massachusetts Anti
Saloon league sent out thousands of
circulars and kept a force of orators
busy for weeks.
No-License Workers Puzzled.
No-license workers were at a loss
to explain tue uclicilbc xh
vote from last year's figures. Suburban
and residential districts which had
been counted upon to poll heavy ma
jorities for no-license returned major
ities for license, many of them of a
substantial nature. Liquor interests
asserted that many voters in these
districts who ordinarily voted "No" in
order to keep . saloons out of their
particular wards, changed their votes
to "Yes" this year because of the fear
that the entire city would go "dry"
and . that ; the revenue derived from
liquor licenses would be lost
Four members of the city council
and two school committeemen were
chosen. Daniel J. McDonald. James
A. Watson and Francis J. W. Ford
were elected to the council for three
year terms and Alfred E. Wellington,
who was unopposed, was elected for
one year.
Michael F. Sullivan and Henry
Abrahams were elected to the school
committee for three -year terms.
NO LICENSE ADVOCATES
GAINED TWO TOWNS
North Adams and Fitchburg Enter the
'Dry" Column.
Boston, Dec. 19. No-license advo
cates gained two new victories in the
fourth municipalities outside' of Bos
ton holding elections today. North
Adams changed from the wet to the
dry column for the first time in 29
years and Fitchburg gave a no-license
margin of 84. Peabody and Quincy
remained in the dry column.
With the last of the 37 city elec
tions in the state now decided, the
"dry" forces this year have added
six cities to their list and have not
lost one.
DECISIONS BY SUPREME
COURT OF ERRORS
Error Pound in Knights of Columbus
vs. Mary Curran.
Hartford, Conn., Dec. 19. Twenty
decisions were handod down today by
the supreme court of errors. In the
case of the New Britain Gas Light
company against G. E. Root et al., in
which the gas company appealed from
an order of the public utilities com
mission granting an application of
Newington residents for service.
Judge Case's judgment was set aside.
He had decided that the comm'ssion
exceeded its powers and rendered de
cision for the gas company.
No error was found in the case of
Robertson, and - Govenne Contracting
company vs. the Aetna Accident and
Liability company, over the question
of payment of a bond. In the friendly
suit of James L. Loomis vs. G. F.
Reublein and Brothers, over the rights
of a shipper in Canton, no error was
found.
Krror was found in the case of Ma
ria S. Bitonui vs. M. S. Skciwetoff and
also in the cases of the city of Bridge
port vs. the Aetna Indemnity com
pany; Catharine Delaney vs. the Wa
terbury and Milldale Tramway com
pany. Other errors found were: Knights
of Columbus vs. Mary Curran deter
mining the ownership of $1,000 insur
ance fund; Isabella A. Linane vs. Aet
na Brewing conipany and in the ap
peal of N. aiargolis vs. Isidor Wise,
state vs. Mark Smith.
No errors were found in these cases:
Prank Seward et al vs. M. Zward &
Son company: Clarence D. Lane vs.
James M. Cday: Wetkopsky vs. New
Haven Gas Light company; Harry
Ginsberg vs. James Capone: Jacob
Weinstein vs. Montowese Brick com
pany; Harold L. Tristram vs. Horace
L. Shepard and William H. Tristram;
Prances Helene Heft vs. Mary Jo
sephine M. Heft; state vs. Frederick
Schleider; Samuel A. Pudy vs. Stan-
I ley Watts; Bertha L. Ban ton In ap
peal irom award or compensation vs.
Wheeler and Howe company.
Congressional Christmas Recess.
Washington, Dec. 19. Democratic
Leader Kitchin's resolution to provide
for a congressional recess over the
Christmas holidays from December
22 to January 2 was adopted by the
house today by a vote of 141 to 44. A
similar resolution will be passed by
the senate.
The New York. Street Cleaning Dept.
announced that it has 9,057 snow fight
ers enrolled forthe entire winter.
Three persons were killed when the
Wabash express, from Buffalo to Chi
cago, was derailed at Corinth, Ont.
Investigation of the coal and car
shortage situation extending over the
United States was started at Chicago.
The barge Santiago, with a cargo of
coal, was sunk in Lake St. Clair, as
the result of being cut open by heavy
ice. 0
Articles of incorporation were filed
by the Montague Gold Mining Co. of
New York with a capital stock of
11,000,000.
Quinton Edwards Rawls, for 43 years
a merchant of Durham, N. C, and one
of the oldest in North Carolina, died
of heart trouble.
Jose Maria Barons, minister of war
and navy in Ecuador, has resigned.
Rafael Pino Roca has been appointed
to this portfolio.
The schooner Edward H. Hight,
which went ashore at Belfast, Nov. 17
while voyaging from Treston for Turks
Island, has been floated. N
Roy A. White of Bayles, Cal., his
wife and four children lost their lives
in a fire that destroyed the Interocean
Hotel at Cheyenne. Wyo.
The Sixty-ninth meeting of the
American Association for the Advance
ment of Science will be held in New
York from Dec. 26 to Dec. 30.
Wireless calls asking for assistance
sent out by the American steamship
Portland have been received by tho
naval radio station at Bermuda.
By special permission of Cardinal
Farley midnight mass at Christmas
will be again permitted in all the
churches of the archdiocese of New
York.
H. Everett Fisher of East Orange, N
J., will sail for France today to join
the Norton sec-ion of the American
Motor Ambulance Corps on the Ver
dun front.
The Massachusetts Ambulance Co.,
No. 1. the last detachment of the Na
tional Guard of Massachusetts to be
ordered back from the Mexican border,
has arrived home.
Arthur P. Daggertt, who pleaded
guilty on November 24 to the theft of
Mrs. E- .H. Harnman's $6o.ouo nKiace,
was arraigned -in the Court of General
Sessions for sentence.
Patrick J. Duggan, a game warden
of Croton-on-Hudson, was seriously
injured when he fell between the plat
forms of two cars at the Dyekman
Street subway station.
The Baldwin Locomotive Works re-
ceied an order for 100 large fi eight
locomotives from the Paris, Lyons and
Mediterranean Railway, one of the
largest railways in France.
A suit to test the constitutionality
of the New York law limiting hours of
work for women was uismissed by the
United States Supreme Court, throw
ing1 the case back to Nesv York courts.
The War Relief "Clearing Houss for
France and her allies announced that
the French government is giving un
usual facilities for the handling of re
lief shipments from the United States.
Two Italians, giving New York ad
dresses, were arrested following the
explosion of 20 sticks of dynamite
which wrecked the harbor police sta
tion and 25 surrounding buildings at
Boston.
New York is spending $2,000,000 for
Christmas trees and green shrubbery
from the waods of Maine, New Hamp
shire and Vermont, according to the
estimate of the New York State College
of Folestry.
Duval West, of San Antonio, Texas,
who' made personal investigation of
conditions in Mexico for the adminis
Xraton, was nomnated by President
Wilson to be United States judge,
western district of Texas.
DISSOLUTION OF TWO
INSURANCE COMPANIES
Ordered by the Court Both Are Penn
sylvania Companies.
Harrisburg, Pr Dec. 19. The Union
Casualty Insurance company of Phila
delphia and the Pension Mutual Life
Insurance company of Pittsburgh were
today placed in the hands of Insur
ance Commissioner J. Denny O'Neil
as receiver by the Dauphin county
court. The court Also made decrees of
dissolution.
This action follows the appointment
of receivers in the federal courts, of
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh yesterday
and it is probable the state will seek
to obtain sole jurisdiction- over the
companies by asking that the appoint
ment of federal receivers oe revoked.
Both concerns are concerned by the
same interests.
COUNT FERDINAND RADZIWEL
RELEASED FROM INTERNMENT
To Leave Russia Through Interven
tion of President Wilson.
London, Dec. 19, 3.40 p. m.-!-Count
Ferdinand Radziwell, leader of the
Polish party in the reichstag, who was
interned in Russia soon after the. out
break of the war and was released
recently through the intervention of
President Wilson, has arrived at
Stockholf on his way to Germanv.
OBITUARY.
Frank K. Woolworth.
Waterbury, Conn., Dec. 19. Frank
K. Woolworth, one of the best known
Odd Fellows and Masons of the state,
superintendent of mails in the Wa
terbury post office, died tonight after
an illness of two days. He was born
in New Haven Nov. 8, 1854, and had
lived in Waterbury since he was 10
years old.
He is survived by his wife and one
daughter. Frances Woolworth, of Can
ton, N. Y. '
Stock Exchange Experienced
Minutes in Its History The Stocks Which Suffered
Chiefly Were Those Which Have Derived Huge In
comes From the Sale of War Supplies or Other Products
for Which There Has Been a Big European Demand,
New York, Dec. 19. Prices broke
violently on the stock market today
after the publication of the remarks
of Lloyd George on the German peace
proposals. The downward movement
did not begin, however, until an hour
fter the receipt, about one o clock.
of the "first excerpts from his ipeech.
Uuring this time, as the fragmentary
additions came x in. Wall street spent
one of the tensest sixty minutes in
its history endeavoring to interpret
the significance of the British vpre-
mier's discourse.
Confusion and perplexity seemed to
reign, which was reflected in hesitant
cy, little rallies and declines and a
bound upward before the slump be
gan. Then, suddenly, the stock tick
ers began to reel oft the message that
stocks were being offered down. The
market fell off rapidly and before the
final hour of trading was over, ex
treme declines of from 4 to 10 points
had been registered.
Probably never in history has Lon
don been such an overshadowing fac
tor in the New York stock market as
today. Trading during the morning
was irregular, with only a nominal
output. The market was marking
time. Interest in what Lloyd George
would say was at high pitch in every
quarter of the final district and bus
iness waited exclusively for word from
the head of Great Britain's new min
istry. The first excerpts from the speech
were preceded by the publication of
private cables purporting to outline
the text of that address. Prices act
ually rose on these advices, illustrat
ing the market's extremely sensitive
condition.
A3 has been the case in the several
other drastic downward movements
which have occurred in tha stock
market since Germany's peace pro
posal a week ago today, the stock
which suffered chiefly were those of
RESPONSIBILITY HAS BEEN
PLACED ON CARRAN2A
Of Deciding Whether an Amicable
Settlement of Differences is Possible.
Philadelpha, Dec. 19. Secretary of
the Interor Lane and his colleagues
on the Mexican-American joint com
mission placed on General Carranza
today the responsibility of deciding
whether the American government
should continue its efforts to effect a
satisfactory and amicable adjustment
of the questions affecting the relations
of the two countries and then ad
journed until after the holidays.
Through his representatives on the
commission they sent to Carranza a
communication further explaining the
position of the United States govern
ment and containing protestations that
there exists no intention to violate the
sovereignty of Mexico. It was made
clear, however, that there can be no
modification of the conditions on which
the American troops will be with
drawn from Mexico and that the atti
tude of the government as outlined in
th edeclaration of policy made by
Secretary Lane when the protocol was
signed at Atlantic City has not been
altered.
The communication was terse, but
studious care had been exercised to
keep out o fthe document any phrase
ology that misht give offense to the
Mexican executive. It was not more
than 450 words in length. It was
handed to the Mexican representatives
in joint session and transmitted by
them almost immediately to Queretaro.
where, it is expected, it will receive
prompt consideration from . General
Carranza. It was cabled and a copy
sent by mail.
The message of the Americans was
in reply to that presented by the
Mexicans when they reconvened here
yesterday.
FRENCH CABINET IS
ACCUSED OF WEAKNESS
Senator Berenger Reproaches Minis
try for Defects in Economics.
-V
Paris, Dec. 19, 5.10 p. m. Henry
Berenger, senator for Guadeloupe, to
day in the senate accused the cabinet
cf weakness and dilatorincss. The
senator said the new ministry had
brought about only a change in per
sonnel. This was shown in the way
in which the war was being directed
the French had been unable to drive
the Germans beyond the frontier. The
speaker then reproached the ministry
with defects in the organizations of
the economic life of the country and
charged that there had .been a lack
of organizations in the production of
war material. He then attacked
French diplomacy, to which he im
puted as a result the recent events in
Athens.
APPEAL FROM WILL OF
CARL STRAKOSCH AND LIFE
$20,000 Bequest to Ont Servant Same
Amount to Daughter.
New Hartford, Conn., Dec. 19. Julia
Claire Strakosch, the adopted daught
er of Carl Strakosch and his wife
Clara Louise Kellogg, the opera sing
er .today filed an appeal from the pro
bating of her father's will The es
tate is valued at $100,000 of which the
daughter, under the will, receives S20,
000. The remainder of the estate is
divided between servants and friends
of the family. One bequest to a
servant is $20,000. The allegations
are not made public.
The death of Mr. Strakosch occur
red recently, a few month's after that
of his wife. .
Shipments of fresh and cured meats
from Chicago last week totaled 43,186,-pounds.
One of the Tensest Sixty
concerns which have derived huge In
comes from the sale of war supplies
and other products for which there
has been a big European demand.
There was a rally Just at the. close, :
however, of from 1 to 6 points.
When the slump finally began Unit
ed States Steel, always the largest of
the short interest,, was offered down
in single lots of 1,000 to 5,000 shares
from 116 1-8 to 109 5-8, this change
being wrought in very little time.
Other shares that the registered ex- .
treme recessions of 4 to 10 points in
cluded Gulf States Steel, Crucible
Steel. Central Leather, Baldwin and
American Locomotives, Cuba Cane Su
gar, American Zinc, Butte and Super
ior and Industrial Alcohol, with 17 for
Atlantic, Gulf and West Indies.
Pronounced depression was also
manifested by Mercantile Marines, In
ternational Paper. Republic Iron. Tex
as Company, Utah Copper, Lackawan
na Steel,- Pittsburgh Coal and Ohio
State Gas. i
Of these issues, Atlantic, Gulf and
West Indies, Central Leather, Utah
Copper and Butte and Superior made
low records for the current decline,
showing at their extreme depression
losses of 2 to 5 points from lowest
quotations of last Friday, that day
marking the temporary culmination of
the recent period 1 of liquidation.
Today's offerings probably Involved
a greater proportion of short sales
than either of last week's recessional
movements. This was plainly true of
United States Steel, which contrib
uted something like one-third to th
day's total of about 1,800,000 shares.
Steel closed at a net loss of a point,
making up much of its recovery in the
final fifteen minutes, with other active
shares.
Dealings did not embrace the wide
variety of issues traded in during last
week's turbulent sessions, rails, for
example, playing an unimportant part,
conspicuous only for their strength.
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
OF' RADIO OPE RATIO' i6
Proposed in in Administration Bif
Before Congress V
Washington, Dec. 19. FirstT steps
toward ultimate government control vl
all radio communication between the
United States, its qjitlying possessions
and ships at sea, are proposed in an
administration bill laid before con
gress today providing for a sweeping
revision of the laws regulating wire
less stations.
The proposal Is in line with a plan
worked out nearly a year ago by navy
wireless experts and endorsed by Sec
retary Daniels and other administra
tion officials in an informal suggastion
to all of the American republics for ,
uniform government wireless control
throughout the western hemisphere.
As an initial step, the measure pre
sented today would authorize the fed
eral government to purchase commer
cial stations where the owners ar
willing to sell at a fair valuation :
would permit government-owned
plants to be operated for private com
mercial business; and in the interest
of national defense would thr"ow re
strictions about the participation of
aliens in the control or operatoi of
American wireless. Every private con -cern
operating in the United States
would be required under the bill to
bring at least two-thirds of its stock
under American ownership and to hairs
a two-thirds majority of Americans on
its board of directors. No alien wou!d
be licensed as an operator in any land
plant on American territory.
The bill, drafted by representatives
of the several executive departments
interested, was introduced in tho sen
ate by Senator Fletcher, a member of
the commerce committee, and m the
house by Representative Alexander,
chairman of the merchanr ma.ine
committee. The expectation is tiutt lb
will be pressed for passage during tb.?
present short session. - - ,
TWO 8TEAMERS ARE
ICEBOUND IN LAKE ERIE
Ice Crushing Tugs Have Started for
v Their Relief. :
Toledo, Ohio, Dec. 19. Two Ice
crushing tugs started today to the re
lief of the freight steamer Corvus,
fast in twelve inches of solid Ice off
Pelee Island, Lake Erie. The Corvus
is bound for this port with a cargo of
stone.
Information received at tug offices
is that the bulk freight steamer Re
public probably up-bound, is fast in
heavy ice off Colchester reef, near
the Canadian shore. The ice-bound
ships are in no immediate, danger.
GEORGIA GUARDSMEN -
HAVE SPINAL MENINGITIS
Four Companies of Infantry Brigade
Quarantined at El Paso.
El Paso, Texas, Dec 19. Four com
panies of the Georgia infantry brigad
have been quarantined because of the '
discovery of spinal meningitis among
these troops, it was announced at mil
itary headquarters here today.
The companieh quarantined are H
and G of the First Infantry: M of the
Second Infantry and B oftthe Fifth In
fantry. It was announced that there
were four cases among the men of the
companies.
Dr. James Monroe Taylor Dead.
New York, Dec. 19. Dr. James Mon
roe Taylor, president - emeritus of
Vassar college, died tonight at the
hotel here where he had been ill about
a week. He was 68 years old.
1
