f .
WEATHER. V W ^ Xwff 'From Pren to Home
Rain or snow tonight and tomorrow; M^ ^ ^ 11 U """""""""" """"""""" ""?'???
fng south and southeast winds. lnCTH ami JlrM ^YrT^yW I I Within the Hoar" j
Temperature twenty-four hours end- H H H H H H H H H H H H MHL
W>ijv ^JUviuuu aiait '!!!:_?_
CLOSING SEW YORK STOCKS PAGE SI. V ^ V. -.^ > 1,1 "* D*"' *??? ? T**S8T' S_mA*T* SM8X
No. 29,538. WASHINGTON, D. C.t WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. * ONE CENT. I
TO MAKE NO FIGHT
ONHAMD-HALF
Chairman Page Will Permit
. District Appropriation Bill
t to Carry the Provision.
RECORD TIME ON MEASURE
There will be no attempt to remove
from the District appropriation bill the
| half-and-half provision, if the wishes
of those in charge of the bill are re
spected. and the important local .supply
bill will go to the Senate in record time
if the present indications are carried
out. Chairman Page, in charge of the
bill, continued work on the measure
today, having called it up late yesterday,
with the explanation that he
would not attempt any legislative fight
on the half-and-half provision.
Inquiry among members today proI
duces the information that there is a
j general understanding no attempt to
1 remove the half-and-half provision will
% be made by any one in the House. There
is no parliamentary rule against this,
merely a general understanding that
the bill will be sent to the Senate with
the half-and-half provision Intact.
It is understood that attempts will be
made to attach to the District bill the
various horizontal raise propositions
that were brought forth during the debate
on the legislative bill. Rather
than have a 20 and 10 per cent raise, as
proposed by Mr. Keating, it is believed
That Representative Page will insist
upon a 5 and 10 per cent raise.
Statement by Mr. Page.
On calling up the bill late yesterday
Representative Page said:
"In making a brief statement as to the
bill and the appropriations which it carries,
I want to say to the committee ,
that the legislative provision which, in .
one form or another, has been in this bill
during the last three or four sessions of
Congress, relative to the fiscal relations
existing between the government and the
District of Columbia, is not contained in
this bill. I desire to say, further, that this
was left out, not because those who favor
a different system than that now in force
having charge of the formulation of the
appropriation bill have In the slightest
degree changed their minds as to what
ought l be done in that particular, but
it has b? -n left out more for the reason
that it seems futile to undertake to legislate
this provision in an appropriation
bilL Realizing that time is of some value
at this particular session of Congress, we
have omitted any legislation upon that
subject.
* "The estimates submitted through the
Commissioners of the District of Columbia
for appropriations for the fiscal year
for which the bill appropriates, exclusive ,
i of the water revenues, were $16,278,092.66.
The bill as reported to the House carries
(ft,811 .#99.99, an amount (255,222.56 in ex- 1
cess of the current law for the Dftrtrict. ,
However, it' ls $3,446,993 less than the estimates
submitted by the Commissioners." J
Questioned by Representative Madden
as to what items were left out of the bill.
Representative Page replied that the three 1
big park projects, the municipal hospital
project and the sewage disposal plant are
the principal recommendations not made.
District Salaries Discussed.
Representative Page was asked as to
provision for horizontal increases in
pay for District employes, a matter
which will now have to be attended to
by an amendment from the floor. He
answered i
"The provision as drawn in the subcommittee,
to be frank, and submitted
to the full committee in connection
with this bill, was to increase the pay
of those employes in the District of Columbia
receiving a salary of less than
$1,200 10 per cent and of those receiving
salaries of from $1,200 to $1,800
5 per cent.
"Those excluded from this were the
members of the metropolitan police
force, those who belonged to the fire
organizations of the city and those connected
with the public schools. The
provision a* drawn by the subcommittee
included also the same ratio of increase
to the per diem employes of the
District of Columbia, those below the
sum receiving an Increase of 10 per
cent, those above receiving an increase
of 5 per cent. It also included a provi
vion t>j wnicn tnose empioyea oy tne
District in institutions receiving- their
\ subsistence and now being paid less
than 11.000 a year should have an increase
of 5 per cent in their salaries.
That was the provision as draw n, and
which I thiikW measures out equity to
f the employe* of the District of Columbia."
Not | sported to House.
Tins provl on was not reported to
the House from the full committee.
Just before the House adjourned Representative
Crisp of Georgia, one of the
leaders of the movement opposed to the
half-and-half, expressed his intention
to refrain from attacking the bill as
now written, although he declared he
had not changed his mind on the subject.
Wants Inheritance Tax.
Representative Borland began to
make signs indicating an assault upon :
the half-and-half as soon as the bill \
was taken up today, but simmered i
d?>-.vn and finally allowed his wrath to j
cool after an excoriation of the District
generally. He advocated further taxes I
for this already overtaxed city, spe- j
ctfically mentioning his view that an in*
heritanoe tax might bring the total |
revenue of the District to about $14,- j
000,000 a year, and with that amount j
the District could support itself and i
also pay the charge incurred by the
presence of the United States government
plant here.
"There is a certain element here," he i
said, "who have assumed always that '
the District is some kind of a princi- i
pality or conquered province, which we j
rannot govern without some sort of a;
treaty. The District of Columbia be- !
Jongs to the United States, and not in 1
the smallest sense to the met: who hap- '
pen for their own convenience to tran- j
fa? t business here."
No sooner had he concluded than 1
Representative Cox of Indiana, who is a
champion when it comes to making
points of order, raised one of these j
weapons against the proposed increase ;
in the pay of the Commissioners from I
$5,000 to $6,000 a year. Commissioner I
Brownlow was sitting in the gallery j
at the time. Representative Page, in !
charge of the bill, answered Represent- j
ative Cox by saying the Commissioners !
fully deserve the increase owing to the ;
increased responsibility and the character
of the men.
Highest Paid Men for Work Done.
' ? Representative Mann remarked that
"the Commissioners ar? the highest
paid men in the District in proportion
to the work they do." lie asked: "Did
the Commissioners request thts raiser*
"An estimate was submitted by the
Qptpmlssloners asking for $7,600 a
^ ' (.Continued en Twentieth Page.)
SENATE MAY VOTE
ON TODAY
Filibuster by Opponents of D.
C. Prohibition ,Possibly
Would Prevent Ballot.
REFERENDUM STILL ISSUE
When the Senate met today it was
with the expectation that the District
nrohihftinn hill wnnlH r?r?i-?iir?v nrapttral
ly the entire session and that a vote
would be reached on the measure before
adjournment, unless a filibuster
was begun by opponents of the bill.
Senator Underwood of Alabama, whose
referendum amendment was defeated
in committee of the whole yesterday
afternoon by a tie vote of 33 to 38, was
ready today to ask for another vote
on the amendment when the bill goes
into the Senate. He said he believes
he had a majority in favor of the
amendment, and intimated that the
supporters of the referendum amendment
would permit a vote if all of
those in favor of the amendment put
in an appearance.
The opponents of the referendum
amendment, while hopeful of obtaining
the final vote on the bill, recognize that
if Senator Underwood and other supporters
of the referendum should undertake
to prevent a vote today they
could do so in all probability. Senator
Sheppard, in charge of the bill, expressed
the hope that it would be possible
to reach a final vote today, and
said he would do all in his power to
bring that about.
Senator Martin of Virginia, chairman
of the appropriation committee, called
up an emergency appropriation bill to
provide money to pay the dependent
families of national guardsmen now
on the border, in accordance with the
act of Congress authorizing the Secretary
of War to pay the dependents not
in excess of $50 a month. It led to
a debate, and Senator Underwood ad- j
dressed the Senate at some length on
the bill and the National Guard.
At 2 o'clock the District prohibition
bill automatically came up for consideration
as the unfinished business
of the Senate.
Senator Lodge of Massachusetts obtained
unanimous consent to pass a resolution
filling the vacancy in the board
of regents in the Smithsonian Institution
caused by the resignation of Andrew D.
White of New York by the appointment
of Henry White of Maryland.
Senator Asburst, chairman of the Indian
committee, men sougnt unanimous consent
for the passage of a resolution concerning
certain products of the Choctaw
Indians.
Filibuster Suspected.
Senator Reed of Missouri, who is opposed
to the prohibition bill, immediately
began a series of questions which
Inclined the supporters of the prohibition
bill to believe that he Intended to use
the resolution as a vehicle for a filibuster
against the prohibition bill.
SeAator jLshufftt. who is in favor of
the prohibition bill, asked leave to withdraw
his resolution, as he did not wish
to impede the progress of the unfinished
business. To this Senator Reed and
Senator Underwood objected.
Senator Saulsbury, the president pro
tern, announced his intention of submitting
the question to the Senate. Senator
Hughes of New Jersey made a point of
no quorum.
Senators Withhold Speeches.
The way was cleared for a vote on
the Underwood referendum amendment
late yesterday afternoon, when
Senator Borah, Senator Hoke Smith
and others agreed to withhold speeches
they Intended to make on the proposed
referendum and the bill, provided a
vote could be had at once, it was the
expectation of many senators that
after voting on the Underwood amendment
the Senate would proceed to vote
on tne passage or me diii.
The latter action wan prevented, |
however, when Senator Underwood announced
that in view of the fact that
his amendment had been defeated by a !
tie vote, 38 to 38. and there had been I
no affirmative action by the Senate, he I
would seek another vote on it when i
the bill went from the committee of I
the whole into the Senate, and asked
that a time be set for voting today.
Prohibition senators, however, ob- j
jected to having the vote go over until |
today, and Senator Underwood and Senator
Reed started a filibuster to pre- I
vent a vote on the bill before the close
of the daily session. Finally an adjournment
was taken without any time I
being fixed for a vote. j
Vote on Underwood Amendment.
The vote on the Underwood referendum
amendment was as follows:
Yeas?Bankhead, Brandt-gee, Bryan,
Catron, Clark, Colt, Culberson, Dllling- j
ham, du Pont, Harding, Hardwick,'
HitchcocK, Iloliis, Hughes, James,
Johnson. Maine; Kern, La Follette, Lee,
Maryland; Martine, New Jersey; Newlands,
Oliver, Page, Penrose, Pittman,
Pomerene, Reed, Saulsbury, Smith,
Arizona: Smith, Maryland; Stone,
Sutherland. Tillman, Underwood. Wadsworth.
Warren. Watson and Williams.
Nays?Ashurst, Beckham, Borah,
Brady. < 'hamberlain, ciapp, cummins,
Curtis, Fernarfd, Fletcher. Gore, Gronna.
Hustings. Johnson. South Dakota; Jones.
Kenyori, Kirby. Dane, McCumber. Martin,
Virginia; Nelson, Norris, Overman,
Fhr-lan, i'oindextcr. Sheppard. Sherman,
Shields, Smith, Georgia; Smoot, Sterling,
Swanaori, Thomav, Thompson,
T"u nsencl, Vardanian, Walsh and
Works.
Bclore taking a vote on tlje referendum
amendment itself, a number of
amendments to it were adopted, including
one to permit the women to vote
as well as the men. and another by the
same senator providing an educational
qualification for voting and making it
impossible for taxpayers to vote if they
were delinquent in their taxes.
An amendment offered by Senator
Thompson of Kansas providing that
saloons be closed on the day the referendum
was taken, was adopted aiso.
Senator Jones of Washington had an
amendment adopted jJermitting the resioents
of Washington, who kept a voting
residence in the stales, to vote on
this referendum as well as the bona fide
residents of the District of Columbia.
They must have resided here for a year,
however.
The woman suffrage was adopted by a
vote of 54 to 15, the proposed educational
qualification amendment by a vote
of 44 to 25.
Agreement Is Blocked.
Senator 1'nderwood. when he sought
to have the vote on the hill and further
amendments go over until today, asked
unanimous consent that an hour be fixed
for voting today on the bill and all
amendments, 2 o'clock or 5 o'clock. Senator
Pcindexter of Washington, a friend
of the bill, blocked this agreement.
He wished to keen the Senate in session
and force a vote lant evening. A
motion to go into executive session was
defeated by the ft lends of the bill, and
Senator Heed" then offered his amendment,
which would prohibit the exportation
of grain alcohol from the DieI
trlct. and began a speech on It. Pro1
(Continue* on Twet^jetli Pa??.)
NAMED TO CONDUCT
INAUGURATION FETE
!
Chairman Harper Announces
Main Committee of
184 Persons.
i uiAiirii All TI ir I lA-r
IWU WUMLIM Ul\l mt Lid I
The main inaugural committee, comprising
the names of 184 leaders in the
life of the National Capital, was named
today by Robert N. Harper, chairman of
the inaugural organization. The list
comprises business, financial, social, official
and civic leaders, with representatives
of old Washington families, irrespective
of political affiliations.
The inaugural committee as announced
today includes two women who took active
part in the recent campaign?the
appointment of Mrs. Jatnes Boggs, made
several days ago, and Mrs. Wesley Martin
Stoner, named today. Mr. Harper
admitted that strong pressure is
being brought upon him to name a third
woman, and that it is possible he may
do so. This Is the first time in history
that a woman has served on an inaugural
committee.
Grand Marshal's Chief Aid.
Maj. Gen. T. H. Bliss has been appointed
as chief aid to Maj. Gen. Hugh
L. Scott, grand marshal of the inaugural
parade.
O. T. Wright has been appointed vice
i chairman of the committee on printing.
| Arthur Peter, chairman of the finance
committee, has announced the names of
I nlnctA^n individuals and corporations
that have made contributions of $1,000
each to the guarantee fund to defray
the inaugural expenses. Fourteen of
these names were previously published
in The Star, the five others just given
out are Lansburgh & Bro., S. Kann.
Sons & Co., The Evening Star and the
Washington Post.
Mr. Peter has already had several
more $1,000 contributions which he expects
to announce tomorrow. These are
all voluntary subscriptions anticipating
the canvass for funds by the finance
committee, which has not yet begun
active work.
Inaugural Force at Work*
The business of arranging for the
inaugural ceremonies is being carried
i on vigorously today, with a force at
I work in the executive offices in the
Gridiron room of the New Willard Hotel.
Chairman Harper and Secretary
Alvin G. Belt are busy conferring with
committee chairmen and vice chairmen
and referring correspondence to
the proper committees.
Tentative lists of the various committees
have been prepared and will
be announced juNt as soon as Chairman
Harper for the general committee
can go over these committee assignments
with the various chairmen.
expects to have a cdbferencs with his
advisory council Friday, and that he
will be in a position to announce all
committees before Saturday.
Frank Lord, chairman of the publicity
committee, was arranging today
for committee headquarters In the District
National Bank building, and expects
to have the first meeting of his
committee tomorrow, when the plans
for the nation-wide publicity campaign
with the co-operation of more than 200
correspondents will be outlined.
That the inaugural parade will be one
i of the largest, if not the largest, ever
held was the prediction of Mr. Harper
j today. He is receiving many letters of
wJBE.a
WSM; J! ?H|
- JHHB
MIJ. (;EV. T. If. BLISf,
Chief Aid (<? Ma J. Cen. Hugh L. Scott
for the Inaugural Parade.
(Copyrighted L?y Cliuedinst.)
application for places in line from
clubs and military schools. Mr. Harper
Is encouraging a special display in the
inaugural parade showing the development
being made by the schools of the
country in military training. Announcement
of these applications will
be made as soon as they have been referred
to the proper committee.
Inaugural Committee.
Those named on the main inaugural
committee are:
i Larz Anderson, Ross I\ Andrews. Mil
ton E. Ailes.
j Ralph 1'. Barnard, Henrj^ p. Blair.
1 Euson Bradley, James M. Baker, Cotter
IT. Bride, Mrs. James if. Hoggs, Alvin G.
Belt, Maj. Gen. T. H. Bliss, Chapin
! Brown, Alban B. Butler, Claude N. Beni
nett, Ira E. Bennett, C. K. Berryman,
I Richard N. Brooks, Commissioner Louis
I Brownlow, Charles J. Bell, Woodbury
| Blair, Gist Blair, E. C. Brandenburg, A.
Bryiawski, Leo c. Brooks.
Murray A. Cobb, Wade H. Cooper,
John F. Costello, Albert Carry, A. G.
i Ciapham. Charles I. Corby, W. S. Corby,
' Walter J. Costello, D. J. Callahan, W.
{ V. Cox. Daniel V. Chisholm^ John B.
Cochran, W. McK. Clayton, C. C. Calhoun,
John B. Colpoys and J. Harry
Cunningham.
Levi David, II. Rozier Du'any, C. W.
J)arr. J. Maury Dove, E. If. Droop, J. J.
Darlington. Charles A. Douglas, P. A.
Drury, Henry E. Davis and Rev. A. J.
Dottlon, S. J.
George H. Emmons, Jr.; J. H. de ?Hbour.
James S. Easby-Smith; John Joy
Edson, George P. Eustis, William C.
Eustis and Cornelius Eckhardt.
W J. Flather, A. F. Fox, George E.
Fleming, Cornelius Ford, Daniel Fraser
and Percy S. Foster.
W. T. Gatliher, Samuel Oompers, C. J.
j Goekeler, William A. Gordon, Dr. Cary
; T. Grayson, Julius Goldenberg, K. C.
I Graham, Gilbert H. Grosvenor, James
I M. Green, Alexander H. Gait, W. F.
| Gude, Col. W. W. Harts. A. T. Ilensey,
Samuel B. Hege, William B. Hihbs.
Lewis Holmes, F. S. Hight, Christian
Heurich, George E. Hamilton. William
D. Hoover. Dr. Thomas V. Hammond
and Adolph A. Hoehling, jr.
James M. Johnston, E. Hilton Jackson,
O. H. I'erry Johnson, Hennen Jennings.
Clarence P. King, Randall H. HagiContlnued
on Twentieth Pace.)
f
\\\N
NX ,
\ it
\v | FEEL
A
GERMAN PRESS SOUNDS
A NOTE OF PESSIMISM
w
Sees Great Gulf Between Teutonic
and Entente Ideas of Peace
Conditions.
AMSTERDAM, December 21/, via London,
11:50 a.m.?Commenting: on Pr~Inier
Lloyd George's speech, the Taegrliche
Rundschau of Berlin says :
"Reparation could be demanded by
England only- if Germany had declared
war on England, if we were to blame
for the war, if we had committed
crimes against international law and
if we had been defeated."
The Lokalanzeiger takes the viewpoint
that Mr. Lloyd George's remarks
about reparation are of no value, inasmuch
as nothing has been said thus
far about peace conditions. This newspaper
continues:
Would Mean Eternal War.
"If Lloyd George means to postpone
satisfying Europe's desire for peace
until the time when the entente J? sue
ceSHlui J" cuuqucrmis ijvruaxuy a u.iinifu
and those of her allies, then the whole
of Europe, as well as Lloyd George,
knows full well that this announcement
means eternal war, unless it is
in the power of the German command
to bring it to an earlier termination
than Lloyd George supposes."
The Tageblatt says it prefers to await
the promised reply of the entente, adding:
"For the present it appears that the
gulf la very great between Lloyd
George's standpoint, ar.d that described
from the German side as the basis for
peace."
Burden on Lloyd George.
The following Is from the socialist
newspaper Vorwaerts:
"Lloyd George says that whoever
wantonly prolongs the war will have a
crime upon his soul. Do not these
words imply strong self-condemnation
if England rejects the negotiations offered
by the central powers?"
Neu Wiener Journal published in
Vienna says:
"he reply of the entente nations to
the peace proposals of the central
powers will certainly be as equivocal
as the speeches of Premier Lloyd
George, Premier Briand and the Italian
foreign minister, Baron Sonnlno.
Nevertheless the idea of peace, has
made a step forward."
Spinal Meningitis Among Soldiers.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., December 20.?
Three cases of spinal meningitis, resulting
In two deaths, have developed
among troops on duty in the El Paso
district within the last few weeks,
according to- information secured
from Col. Walter I). McCaw, chief
j surgeon of the Southern Department.
Col. McCaw said medical officers had
the situation Well in hand and declared
there was no danger of an epidemic.
Honor for Dr. Flexner.
TARTS. December 19.?Dr. Simon
Flexner, director of the Rockefeller Inistitute
for Medical Research of New
I York, has been elected foreign associate
member of the Academy of Mediae.
'
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senates
Met at noon.
Senator Newlands urged compromise
flood control bill before
commerce committee.
Resumed consideration of District
of Columbia prohibition bill, i
House:
Met at 11 a.m.
Considered urgent deficiency appropriation
bill.
Rear Admirals Strauss and
Griffin testified before the naval
affairs committee. Gen. Croxler
appeared before military affairs
committee.
?f-??H
iBHin
OF SCHOOL'FRATS'i
Persons in Close Touch Withi
Board of Education Believe
Adverse Action Is Certain.
I WILL OFFER SUBSTITUTE
|
High school secret societies are to i
he abolished.
Other organizations, open to all students,
will be formed to replace 'them. J
This was confidently predicted this j
afternoon by persons in close touch j
with the board of education and the i
special committee of the board which
has been investigating the entire subject
of high school fraternities and
sororities and their activities.
According to persona who are in j
close touch with the situation, the
special committee headed by William j
T. flalliher this afternoon will bring j
in a report to the entire board asking j
that the high school secret societies i
be abolished. At the same time their '
lease of life Is to be extended for a
year and a half, so that none of the
] friendships which may have been fostered
by them may be severed?that is
] to nay, all present members may conI
tinue as such until their graduation,
but no new applicants may be pledged.
Fight on Report Expected.
In all likelihood the report of the committee
will be fought by certain memhers
of the board. At the same time it
is understood that at least a majority
of the members are opposed to the or!
ganizatlons, and if any effort is made to
amena ine reyui l unaiige il in any :
way, so as to regulate the societies or
place them on probation, it probably will
result in their immediate abolition.
Certain of the members of the board
arc understood to be strongly in favor
of the immediate abolition of the secret
societies. Others are said to feel just
f as strongly that the bodies should be
fallowed to continue their existence. The
j remaining members are believed to be in
favor of the gradual abolition of the soI
cieties?that is, the year-and-a-half
plan.
Result of Compromise.
The report of the committee is understood
to be the result of a compromise
effected after a long debate at the meeting
Monday afternoon. Inasmuch as
the majority of the board's members are
, understood to be in favor of abolition
! of the organization, either immediately
'or by the "gradual" process, It is generally
conceded by those in close touch
v iih the situation that either the report
1 will be adopted as it stands or steps to
abolish the organization will be taken
1 immediately. j
SOUND SOBIN" INTERCEPTED.
Investigation Follows Protest
Against Camp Conditions at El Paso.
EI. PASO. Tex.. December 20.?It is
admitted by Brig- Oen. George Bell. Jr..
that a "round robin" has been drawn
by more . than 300 men of the
8th Ohio Infantry protesting against
camp conditions. This communication
wan intercepted en route to Ohio. It
it stated, and returned to the commanding
officer of the regiment.
An investigation is being made by a
regular army inspector, and all of
the men who signed the communication
have been ordered to he In camp when
called before the inspector. No member
of the camp was placed under
arrest.
The "round robin" was drawn after
Private Rodney I.app died of pneumonia
at the base hospital. It was claimed
that his death bad been caused by his
confinement In the guardhouse while
ill. Thla was officially denied at the
Ohio camp.
J.N '
LLUYD GEORGE POLICY !
MAY INJURE THE U. S.
Flan to Nationalize Shipping May
Present SeriousTroblems
ifTOnCfi ' i !M? 1^1!
Nationalization of British shipping
mentioned briefly by Premier Lloyd
George as one of the first acts of the
new war ministry commands more interest
in official circles here from the
strictly American point of view than 1
any other phase of the premier's
speech. What effect it would have on !
American foreign trade and on the '
status of British ships sunk by German
submarines has opened a new and
unexpected series of questions which
officials regard with much concern.
No Redress in Law.
The taking into the national service
of the whole mercantile marine, followed
closely on England's announcement
that she could not guarantee coal
at any of her coaling bases the world
over exceDt to shins conserving allio^
interests is thought by officials at first
glance to turn over the great majority
of the world's carrying trade to specific
war purposes.
The effect on commerce for American
purposes and not of service to the
allies is problematical, especially as to
the completeness with which Lloyd
George enforces the order. Nevertheless,
there is in law nothing the United ?
States can do should the whole British i
merchant marine withdrawn from <
American trade and harbors.
It is thought the effect on the submarine
situation would be to remove 1
confusion between public vessels not '
entitled to any guarantees and private i
vessels entitled to warning and provi- j
sion for the safety of those on board.
Just where the point of distinction *
would lie is a very complex question. i
I
Greek Problem to Fore.
Lloyd George's announcement of the
recognition of the agents of Venizelos j
raises the question of what should be .
the attitude of this government if Veni- 1
zelos should become the de facto ruler of j
an appreciable part of Greece. A simi- \
Iar question has been faced since Eng- 1
land took over from Turkey the sovereignty
of Egypt, but no decision reached.
The State Department has not b^en able
to credit a new consul general to Cairo i
because it did not know* whether to credit
him to Great Britain or to Turkey. Gen- 1
erally, the department has not recognized
changes made during the war. preferring
to wait for the peace settlement.
Hobson to Push "Dry" Fight.
CHICAGO. Pecfmbfr 20.?Richmond
P. Hobson, former congressman from
Alabama, has leased a residence in
Evanston and announced he will devote
his efforts for the next three years
to an anti-liquor tight in Chicago and
Illinois. The statewide fight was decided
upon today by the Anti-Saloon
League. The Dry Chicago Federation
has elected Mr. Hobson director.
Carry Small Parcels
The stores and their
patrons avoid many risks '
when small packages are
carried by the purchasers.
When goods must be de- t
livered the customer should ?
look at the sales slip to see ^
that name and address are e
correct. ?
Get the Christmas spirit *
and be mutually helpful. ?
ii
t
FIGHTING IN EUROPE
NOWjSATLOWEBB
Drive of von Mackensen Seems
Near End?Russian Attacks
Repulsed.
GUNS DUEL AT VERDUN
Military operations In tne European
leld of war generally are at a low ebb.
The driving campaign of Field Marshal
von Mackensen in Rumania seems
nearly at an end.
The Russians are reported to have
Attacked on the northern Rumanian
front, but are declared to have been
repulsed.
On the Franco-Belgian front there is
i lull, with the quieting down of the
recent activity at Verdun, while latest
reports from both the Russian and
Austro-Italian fronts show little but
irtillery duels and skirmishes.
In Macedonia the reports show rain6
ind fog prevailing, with no military
novements, with the exception , of patrol
engagements.
Russians Break Through
German Advance Posts
in Stanislau Region
By the Associated Pr*M.
PETROGRAD, December 20, via London,
2:40 p.m., British Admiralty per
Wireless Press.?Russian troops operating
in the region of the River Bystritsa
in Galicta, says the Russian official
statement issued today, broke
through the barbed wire entanglements
In front of the Austro-German advanced
posts yesterday and penetrated into
Boliorodcxany Stare, southwest of Stanislau.
The Teutons are said to have
fled in disorder, leaving some prisoners
In the hands of the Russians.
Heavy Artillery Actions
Go on Before Verdun;
Night Fighting Spirited
By the Associated Pr??*.
PARIS. December 20. ? Heavy artillery
fighting continues on the Verdun
front, the war office announced this
afternoon. During the night the engagements
were most spirited in the
vicinity of Louvemont and Chambrettes.
The text follows:
"There was nothing to report last
night other than heavy artillery exchange#
Ui region of Louvemont
and Chamlii^ttes.**'
BERLIN, December SO. by wireless to
noSSSheff^Sf'^oJitJ^'reJpectlna the
campaign on the western front:
"On the Somme and the Aiane, In the
Champagne and op the east bank of
the Meuse,. in isolated sectors, there
were at times strong artillery bombardments
and patrol activity."
British Blow Three Mines.
LQNDpN. December 20.?The report
from British headquarters in France,
issued last night, reads:
"We successfully blew three mines
early this morning southeast of Neuville-St.
Vaast.. A small mine blown
by the enemy yesterday south of Yprea
did no damage to our trenches.
"The enemy's artillery was particularly
active during the night in the
neighborhood of Eaucourt l'Abbaye.
Today we carried out a successful
bombardment of the enemy's lines
east of FauquiBsart. Elsewhere the
usual artillery activity continued."
Several Futile Attacks
Made by the Russians
on North Rumania Front
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN. December 20, by wireless to
Sayville.-*-Several attacks were made yesterday
by the Russians along the northern
Rumanian front, the war office announces.
These attacks were without success.
Gen. Berthelot, the French military
strategist, has asked to be recalled from
the Rumanian front, where he has been
occupied for some time past, according: to
reports received by the Hamburger FremJenblatt.
which also says that the majority
of the British officers attached to
the Rumanian general staff have left for
England.
The newspaper likewise reports a long
difference between King Ferdinand of
Rumania and Gen. Alexieff of the Russian
army regarding the military situation
as regards the Rumanian army. Gen.
Alexieff will report to Emperor Nicholas,
says the newspaper, in the lack of an
opportunity at present for the emperor
to receive Kina Ferdinand in ner?>n
German Military Situation.
The military critic of the Overseas
s'ews Agency, in an article on the sitlation
on the various* fronts, says:
"In spite of rainy weather and the
completely soaked roads in eastern
rVallachia the Teutonic allies are makng
rapid progress. The fragments of
he Rumanian army are being lrresistbly
driven into a square which is
lardly eighty milometers wide, and
bounded by the Danube on the east*
>y the mountains on the west and the
?ereth river on the north. Through
his flat district flows the Buezu river,
rhe chances of success for resistance
11 it are exceedingly small, as the river
las been crossed on a broad front by
he pursuing troops. The ouly large
own in this district still In Rumanian
lands is Rimnik Sarat. The towns of
Sraila, Galatz and Pokshani, from a
trategic and geographic point of view,
telong to the Sereth position.
"In DobrudJa the Russians have been
iriven by the Bulgarians until they ;
.re south of Babadugh. The front of 1
he central powers now has been '
hortened 000 kilometers (about 600
niles), which is as much as is con
idered possible.
Trench Advance Discounted.
"In the western theater the situa- !
Ion is unchanged except for local en- 1
;agements. The French advance near '
erdun was nothing but a political '
emonstratlon and Will be unable to
xerclae any Influence upon the genral
situation. The balance of the ,
rear of 1*1<. therefore, will not be 1m- 1
roved for the French by email local 1
uooesses. After months of sanguinary ]
rting and heavy French and Brit- .
losses the front In France and
ielgium la virtually the same as it
fail in December lilt.- 1
'
RALLY TO SUPPORT i
OF LLOYD GEORGES!
TERMS FOR PEACE
British Resolved to Fight Until
Reparation and Security
Are Assured.
PRESS STILL SEES HOPE
IN TEUTONIC OVERTURES
Opinion Prevails That Premier'!
Speech Has Not Bolted Door
Against Conference.
<1
Great Part for America
in Enforcing World Peace
Serorlty we certainly require. . j
The beat security Is the firm, unbroken
front of the alllnnce. fertt- . **
fled when the wnr ends by a universal
leamic to enforce pence.
In auch n leagrue America would
piny n a:rent part, and her presence
alone would be no small security.?
Manchester Guardian.
- - ? - '
By the A*soci*tfd Pre*s.
LONDON. December 20. 10:45 a.m.??
Premier Lloyd George's reply to Germany's
peace proposal meets with ft
chorus of approval in the British press,
and the general comment is that if
Germany really wants peace she will,
when the joint reply of the allies is received,
state terms which can form ft
basis of discussion. The Manchester
Guardian says:
"Premier Lloyd George has not shut
the door on peace with that resounding
clang for which some of his less bale
anced supporters in the press have been
listening. It is true he insisted on th*
impossibility of accepting the German
invitation as it stands. In this he was
ably seconded by Mr. Asquith and will
be approved by the country.
The German chancellor must be both"
more modest and more explicit before bo
can expect any favorable answer to hta ,
invitation. But the real danger in the
situation which his offer created was
that tb. aUtCi Ujia country in particular,
might be led into an abrupt and
Jg?CT?n|t,refdaal, not merely of the acttfTVHP
HDly proposal Is
discuss peace terms. This snare Lloyd
George has avoided."
. Full Separation Impossible.
The Guardian says that as the speech
invited Germany to be more explicit,
"we do not then cast out every Idea of
settlement and the neutral world cannot
take exception to this attitude."
The' Guardian notes that the speech
contained no hint of the crushing of
Germany, but pays discussion of any
matter is conditioned on restitution. In
the truest form, it continues, reparation'
is impossible, for the deepest
wrongs cannot be undone.
aefuru/ we raiaiiuj ichuuc, v<n>
Guardian continues. "The best security
is the firm, unbroken front of the alliance,
fortified when the war ends by a universal
league to enforce peace. In such a
league America would play a great part,
and her presence alone would be no small
security."
Expressing the opinion that Chancellor
von Bcthmann Hollweg will admit on reflection
that the proposals of the entente
allies, as outlined by Mr. Lloyd George,
formed a basis for discussion, the Guardian
says:
"There is in this as in all countries at
war a great volume of opinion, too little
vocal, unfortunately, in favor of a serious
effort on the part of Europe's statesmen
to put an end to the carnage which is destroying
the whole generation of the
young."
Views of British Nation.
The bulk of the morning papers agree
that Premier Lloyd George expressed the
views of the British nation.
"Premier Lloyd George." says the
Times, "expressed the thoughts and
wishes of the nation and laid down a
program which will command its hearty
support."
This is the tone of the comment in
most of the other papers, who hold that
the premier's answer and also Lord Curzon's
speech in the House of Lords aro
moderate in phrase, firm and unanswerable
in substance. The papers declare
that the nation is prepared and will willingly
undertake all the sacrifices foreshadowed
and will face greater privations
if necessary to insure those ends of
reparation and security which the allies
demand from the central powers.
There is nowhere any hostile criticism
of the government's declaration.,
but the Daily News contends that the
forecasts of .the measures for organizing
the nation do littie more than indicate
that the policy of the late government
will be continued and extended. It
says that if the new government succeeds
as well as its predecessor the nation
will be grateful, and that if it succeeds
better the nation will be mort
than grateful.
Sees Chance for Parley.
At lOe Srtinr unic mc iicwaimifn cvui?
ment points out the possibility of negotiations
being undertaken, notwithstanding
the strong statements of the
premier and I.ord Curzon and their Indorsement
by members of the late government.
Thus the Daily News says
that the door Is not necessarily banged
and bolted and that the allies' Hat refusal
of Chancellor von Bethmann Hollweg's
offer is not meant to indicate that
the allies do not wish peace, but that
Germany must aBk it in the role of the
vanquished and not the victor. The
News expresses the hope that the allies
will speedily agree on precise terms on
which they will be willing to negotiate.
Even the Mail, which has always dee
inanded extreme measures against Oere
many, says:
"There is no obstacle whatever t<J
peace If Germany really wants it. She
has merely to withdraw from the occupied
countries and we are willing
enough to discuss reparation and guar*
xntees for the future."
Domestic Program Vast.
The British public had much to re?
Sect on this morning. The reply of
Premier Lloyd George to the German
peace proposals had been anticipated,
ind passages of his speech dealing
with that question appeared In the
iato editions of yesterday evening
si'i ' ' 'innii'iilliiifMiiait' 2 j|
