HEALD
increase in salary gained for
goenetemploys. It is the pa- <5X
per in Washington that accomplishes : ~r7 HW
things I
NO. 7U.WASHIINGTON, D. C. WED-NESDAY, DECEMBER 20. 1916. ONE CENT- L ? ,
SENATE IN TIE
ON REFERENDUM
OF PROHIBITION
Underwood Amendment Fail
Temporarily But Will Come
Up Again Today.
SHEPPARD MOVE FAII
Attempt to Get Vote Abandoned Whet
Threat of Lengthy Debate
Develop.
The Underwood amendment refer
ring to the residents of the Distric
of Columbia the Shepard bill closinj
saloons and liquor stores in Wash
ington failed temporarily in the Sen
ate yesterday by a tie vote of 38 t<
38. The referendum proposition wa!
victorious until the last moment
when Senator Thomas, of Colorado
hurried into the chamber and cas
the vote that made it a tie.
The referendum was defeate<
largely because the pioneers in th
referendum movement and the West
ern and Middle Western Senator
who have urged it along with th
initiative and recall and other legis
lative novelties, abandoned it in thei
desire to eradicate the so-called li
quor evil from the capital.
L.arollette for Iteferendum.
s-nator La Fl-ol.t te. the ultra-radica
member . ato no I:ta ru upr.
t he Il' aInIterwood :- ;ro. w.
Senators I'irman% and Keny on. o
I",a; ,lap>. of Minr.esota; Poindexte
nd Jon.-, of Washirton; ]Borah. o
ho: ('ronna. of Ncrth Dakota; Nor
of Nebraska; Worka. of California
Ii ;or, Dmocrat, of Oklahoma, vote,
:o n W'ishingoniuahn a voice in thei
r .ighborhood a tairs.
- The unxpretil itrength of the IUnder
drmi .i-nt disconcerted the pro
ion h-ads for a moment. Senato
: - ant sought to weize his opportunit
ami I hi0- hull to a vote. but the sig
I ti~an r'imarks if senator Underwoo<
ting a 'in.: ae-t. and th- mani
SI dwosition oi the Senate discourages
o. Senator Rk-d :atempted to put th
'.NT!\[El N '.%EF MIX.
SAYS JAPAN CHAFES
FIIER U. S. INSULTL
N:nron- P-rfeo:- Predicts War Un
le:_ Amercan Policy Changes.
tA r ..'At N-,,iri
thar.t th.
u . JIT-an has vrl
: r..,i..tn o,.n with the unitet
-itient. :n . son. : late r. Ja.atn wii
Fel' noer- it no mite able, t., submitt to the
Amierican arr i-ian.'. %,,h h uniility.
V. rv f.w pI uint on- Ameri
' t a t. that th
!Si rs rite heim
;it :m i 'm : h ti - s w a
It. i I I t l I is. 7I11 ".v i. titl
n er I ' *-eare rIspec.t 0!
'hi-:, un' 1 e trt etn n the r
, th. . t St-te. We willie
h , aile tI d- tbi in!' we first obtai:
a r i t-, .in- tr itm n with oth,
. tslizrt n'ti nas Iof the world in th.
1 i te Stat ts .f Amtrica.
To mt- the very mention of the so-callem
frierdship betw'-, Jain iand America 1:
a cruel Joke. SI, long as our natlinals it
.\Teri ate noit allow d. tI live undi
the same ionditiont t,.at are freely of
fered to other Europeans.
1 1rless America ren-nizes our su
premacy in the Far East and radicalt:
changes her anti-Japanese polley withit
her borders. there never will be- a rca
peace between the two countries.
GARMKT WORKERS WIN.
New Y*rk. iec. 19---An agreement wa.
reaheidl tody between manufacturer:
and ofileis of the Garment Workers
U'nion which partially settled the strik,
called last week in which 65,000 worker:
walked out.
Sidney Hillman. president of the Amai
gamated tlothinz Workers. announce,
that 100 shops had acceded to the de
mands of the unton for a forty-eicht-hou
week and $2 aeckly increase in waces
and that employcs would go bal
to work.
Negotiations are pending for a complet
settlement of the strike.
CHARGE ANTI-ERAN MOVES.
p Berlin ivia Sayville wireless), Dec. 19.
Elnce the German peace proposals were
announced by the chancellor, an anti
German propaganda has been carried a1
in neutral nations with feverish activity
it was stated today by the semi-offleia
Overseas News Agency.
-The object of this propaganda, it wa,
maid, was "to inform neutrals about secre
German plans and the real German situ
ation. They declare either that Germsn
is on the verge of collapse and is there
fore crying for peace, or else that Ger
many is contemplating new and aggres
sive military enterprises."
SNOW1ALTT P0LICE JUDOE,
Cold Spring. N. Y., Dec. 19.-Jame
O'Hara, a baseball player, was arrestet
here today after the hat of Police Justie
Lawrence Haight had been removed witi
a inowball. As the derby, shattered
efnew from the bead of Mr. Haight
O'Hara ran, calling back:
V "See you later!"
Hie did. when arraigned in court hi
insisted that he had thrown at some on.
else and bad become alarmed when
hat left the wrong person. Judge Halight
after warning O'Hara to improve bia
Egg Famine by Jan. 15,
U. S. Expert Predicts
(By Internatiemal News Servige.)
New York. Dec. 19.-The United
States faces an egg famine by
January 15. according to figures
of the Department of Agriculture,
given out today by P. Q. Foy, food
expert on the staff of New York's
Commission of Foods and Mar
kets.
The supply of cold storage eggs
In the country December 1 was
sufficient for only thirty-seven and
a half days, according to Foy, who
sees now only 50,000 cases on
hand, which he says will be ex
hausted January 15 if the con
sumption is in the same ratio as
that in November.
WILSONS RECEIVE
White House Opened to So
ciety to Meet Judiciary.
By MILDRED MARSHALL KU4NUE.
The season of receptions at the WhIte
House was formally opened last night
when the President and Mhrs. Wilson en
tertained in honor of the Judiciary. Rare
fy In the history of officlal Washingto.
has this distinguished circle been enter
tained before the New Y-ar;-. but the n
novation,. whii thrusts forward'the re
. mainiler ,f the offleial functi. ns and
lears the way for the inaugural sea
son found favor in all circles And mos
p-aiticularly among the Christias vis
irs w ho ar. peiT'itteid tle distinc'tion
,f a While liouse pir- eintalion.
'iff rmg in few re-p.i ti-i the fun
I I i. former yea:. w itlh the exception
--f the idvanie in the hur from 9:30 t
Teloek, the Irn.pt latst evening
rivlal"I the , - tihe past with a
guest list wNhi h ii 'uded nearly two
thousani di -nifield .iists and their con
- tenporaries in ol iiaI and residential
Circles of se t .
I 'he Wlite IIne was in gala array.
The is of the E:ast Room were lined
with pai:ins wa-h f,>rmed a backiround
- for iall ,inl:rds of Ameri-an tBeauty
I%. - t-nii- - ferns banked the man
tels whewre 'nder vases filled with roses
Sere ret0- tid in the long mirr--is. Palins
fTrmI .m,, eff-tive baick=:uni for the
1- im pm1 LL in the il e Rooim. here
- nNTINt El) iNI' lAill FOt1t.
Telegraph Tips |
Rone. Dep. 1i-According to the inven
-z:on of the de-struction of the Italian
!amship Palermo being carried on by
ns N. 'age. Amn- iran Ambassador,
v.-sel was :At:l-il by a Fuhmarine
ws'h t warning. Thure were twenty
v Amiricans on board.
Phuiadlhiia. liec. 19-Sister Mary
Nazareth, mcmert of The Sisltrq of the
'd She:.hert for tw nty-ei:ht y*-ars,
:-d tdi:lf in l ur after a fall
fron I tird e- winlow "f the W-st
Philadelphia Industrial S -hool, where she
hit been a resident for several years.
I'levo'and. 0.. Dec. 19.-i'ommn Pleas
.udge Powell today\ ordered the grand
-ry to make an immediare and , Shmas
iiv. investi ation into the milk Ii-.itinn
hn nd id-ertmine wh1etheir Ih, Vlien
a i law was violated in th''
vmbar l ,1-,red by the Northern Ohio
(,r-du- r hv the raise in retail price
tdayi to I- i-ents a quart
I ndin, Ti0. 19.-The Cunard liner
Pmnnia.i Iwhi-h hai gone agroid in a
. s- floa:ted' toiay.
Scrantni. Pa.. i-. 19.-Injuries in an
n'Tomobil, cil-Ident a year ago caused
th 1. death toiiu of Clarence D. Simpson,
millionire i-al operator and former
- -e'br-i- of th- N,-w York Stock Nx
change. Sinpseri recently Illed suit for
divone fron his second wife. a New
York and Boston woman, for desertion.
London, Dc. 19-The Russian courcIl
of the empire has announced that it
iunainiously favors an urerluivocal re
fusal if G;erminy's peace proposals, ac
cording to a Petrograd dispatch.
Pittsburgh, Pa., Dec. 19.-The largest
heart halm award on record in Allegher.y
County couris was made today when a
jury awardei Miss Nettle Richardson,
former hotel cashier, $170,000 damages in
her suit against Henry Deriston, 7R, re
cluse of Siissvale.
Honolulu. Dec. 19.-T. Yoklo, a member
of the Japanese diet, who arrived here to
day on the liner Korea Maru. declared
his belief that the war will last aiother
year.
Worcester. Mass.. Dec. 11-Former Rep
reseitative John C. Thayer. one of the
i wost prinient Democrats of New Eng
land. ied here today aged 71 years.
Sprinuifielh, Ill., Dec. 19.-John H.
'Walker. president of the Illinois Fed
eration of Labor, this afternoon claimed
his election to the presidency of the
United Nlire Workers iv-,r John1 P. White
by a majority of from ,%N4 to 10.000.
About 20.000 votes were cast.
Hartford, Conn., Dec. 19.--George A.
Sweetland. socialist nominee for Gov
ernor in 190.4 and captain of a ConnectI
cut contingent of "Coxey's Army" on its
invasion of Washington. about twenty
years ago, is dead here today. He was
50 years old.
Honolulu. Dec. 19.-lawall Is to receive
the first squadron of airplanes under the
new defense act. Twenty-four machineg
wilt be the first ailotment.
Copenhagen. via London. Dec.49.-The
Foreign Offiee has presented to Parlia
ment the draft of a resolutton for the
cession of the Danish West IndIes to
the United States.
Highland Falls. Dec. 19.-Mrs. Edward
Bradley, who was thrown out of a buggy
in Montgomery village, in a collision
with an automobile recently, received an
.ward of 51, the modest sum she asked
for her injuries, from a jury here to
day.
SPANISH STRAWRR SUNK,
London. Dec. 19-The Spanish steam
r&hlp Aeon has been sunk, says a dispatch
to Lloyds today. She plied between ait
ba. D'rench and Spanish patsn.
17 AMERICANS
SINK WITH SHIPI
Muleteers Killed When U-Boat
Attacks British Horse
Transport.
Seventeen American hostlers were killed
when a submarine sank the British horse
transport Russian in the Mediterranean
on December 14, according to an official
British admiralty report received at the
State Department yesterday. The report, r
sent forward by Consul General Skinner 1
at London, follows:
"The empty westbound British horse I
transport ship Russian was sunk by a
submarine in the Mediterranean on the
14th. Eleven of the crew were killed, in
cluding the chief 'offlcer. the first offi
cer and the second officer. Also seven
teen muleteers were killed. Their names
have been communicated to the American
consul."
No official comment onl the case was
made at the State Departmeant. U ' 1nof
ficiAIly the belief was expressed that the
vessel was in admiralty service.
It is understood that the department's
opinion is that if Germany is convinced
she was in the wrong in sinking the ship
she will make amends.
No re Iuest for information in the case
has yet gone forward to Berlin. It is
expeated that Charge Grew will be re
quested to ask the German governmentI
for its side of the case within the next'
few days, however.
This government is mikirg an investi
gation of Germany's cont.tion that the
itawaiian-American ti.r Columbian,
sunk by a German subnarite, was tor
tadoed only after she had flashed broad
cast by radio a warning that a submarine
was in her vicinity.
BOSTON REMAINS WET
BY 23,000 MAJORITY
"Drys" Poll 2.000 Less Votes Than in.
1915 Despite Billy Sunday.
Illy the lnternatlionl Newserve.
host , . 1.An ot went license'
today by the s r: rising majority of 23
(0) in a total vote of 84 0. The total
vote was: Yea, ,3.4s9; no. 29, 42 There
were '.0$) fewer "no" votes than in
191~. The majority was one of the great
est in Boston's history.
High water mark was renched in 19W5.
w ith a majority of 28,613. The next high
est majority for license was in 1910, when
the Fltzgerald-Storrow mayoralty contest
attracted the highest percentage ever
registered in the poll history of the city.;
The majority for license that year was
27,'12. Last year Boetan went license t'y
a n'ajoritv of 11.231 while in the previous
ei..,tiotn the majority for license was 11.-,
571A. II
laaiy two wards went for no-license,'
wards 21 and '3. The result was similar
last year, wards 21 and 26 being the only a
wards to recnrd a no-license vote,
Tim aamraign waged by thae advocates
of no-license, ted hy Billy Sunday, the a
evangelist, has ben heated from the a
start. The liquor interests confined
thmnsetves to newspaper advertising so
far asa puleity was cnneerned, but their
aot:onists endeavored to arouse support
lby emt loing orators, bands, and today,
a u tomoa, iles.
WEAVE MURDER GUILT
AROUND YOUTH OF 13
"Jackie" and Sphinx-Like Brother, 26,
Held in Connection With Tragedy.
ouy the internatienal News service.)
11 -naa 111.. tIce. 19.-A ruddy-cheeked.
1i- r-otd boy, who cursed volubly, andi
his older brother. 26. who refused to talk,
sat in the same cell in the county jail
here today whil, atuthorities were forging
the last link of a chain of circumstantial'
evidence conecting them with the doubl
muirder of MI r. and M.Irs. John P. Becker,
wealthy farmers.
The brothers are named Thomas a
("iJackie" a, the youngear, and Charles, the
older. and, according to Sheriff Close, all
oiestion of their guilt has been ditelled.
From the boy was taken a small calibre
rifle, in which the bullets which killed
the aged pair fitted exactly.
A pair of bloody overshoes, to which
were elinging sinders' like those aboutI
the Becker home. were found in the
Thorr, home, and between the two
farm houses bloolhounds found a bottle:
of kerosene and a bloody newspaper con
taining half-hurned garments. An at
tempt had been made to burn the bodies:
of the ageal farmer and his wife.
It Is helleved the murderers did not find:a
the hoard of money which community,
gossip had always secreted in his house.
FAMOUS EDUCATOR DIES.
New York. Dec. 19.-James Monroe
Taylor, famous educator and former
president of Vassar College, died tonight
at the Hotel Belmont He had been Ill
only a week. *
Mr. Taylor was 68 years old. He was
born in Brooklyn, August 5, 1848. a son
of the tle Rev. E. T. Taylor, who for
twenty-five years was one of the lead
ing Baptist pastors of Brooklyn.
Dr. Taylor was graduated from the
University of Rochester in 1868 and from
the Rochester Theological Seminary in
1871. Hie became president of Vassar
College in 1886.
PLANS "SAFETY FOOD LANE."
New York, Dec. 19.--1!htgand plans to I
relieve her shortage of food by the es
tablIshment of a "safety food lane" be
teween New Brunswick and Liverpool,~
according to information current here
today in warehouse circles. The lame will~
be patrolled constsntly by battleehipe to
prevent submarine activity.
It is planned, it is said, to ship food
from New York to St. Johns and New
Brunswick and there transfer it to steatm
era which will ply the safety lane.
URGES DITORCE FOR IERmum
New York. Dec. 19.-Divoroe for Mrs.
Biance De Saulles, noted Chilean beauty
and heiress, from John I4 De Saulles, for- a
mer famous Yale quarter back, was
recommended today 'by Phoenix, Ingra
haam, referee. Jean Sawyer, the daner, )
wnas nameas oresponnent. ..
SEE DOOR WIDE
OPEN FOR'PEACE
Washington Officials Predict
Negotiations Soon Will
Be Under Way.
Lloyd-George's speech leaves the door
pen for peace. This is the view of the
White House and of the State Depart
nent. It is also the view of the German
Smbosy. where the statement was
nade last night that Germany would not
e the first to close the door.
With the presentation of the allies' an
wer to the German proposals, it is be
leved In official circles actual peace ne
;otiations will be under way.
"It looks to me as though the matter
vere not finished, and as though there
vill be at least one more interchange of
totes." was the comment of Ambassador
-on Bernstorff. of Germany.
Germany. it wast declared, is ready to
iiscuss all of the questions brought up
,y ioyd-Gimmg. This includes th Iles
ion of irlaration, without whic-h, the.
'reier is iuoted as sayin ;, "pace is
mpossible."
The essential point in the Premier's
tatement. as the matter is regarded
iere, was his announcement that th, al
ies will wait until they hlar "what
erms and guarantees (an b- given that
tre more secure than those Germany
roke." This Is looked upon as a de
nand upon the Germans to present their
erms of peace.
Germany. it was declarid last night.
i ready to Present ths, t. rs. but s,
oes not wish to discuss tm-n, in publie.
he German attitude Is that nothing 'an
e gained by a public discius, ion ill whih
tatesmen. will feel it tn.ew:ary to abus.
ne another ard thus keip S:ire tie tires
f antagonism.
Only around a -onfer-ne tatbl, the
;-rmnans arge, can maitt rs (f such im
ortance. involvirg tihe destiries of four
i-en nations, be discu-i with a ren
ble prospect of obtaiin n agit ree-m o
It is expected her, thait lim iiritish
nswer to the Germin piaroral will I.
elivered to Armbassador i-ge. ii I, -
on within a %erv few dan and ill
ommunicated to tI brmtany by the AmI i
an government In substan-e tho ,
ian anw, Is e -... o .
"We wI ti-it y, ri I ,H r i o t
omto I. to c :r.e
FELL US YOUR TERMS,
PARLIAMENT DEMANDS
lritish Want Guarantee Against Prus
sian Militarism Before Parleying.
By the Isternational Ne"s. %erviee.,
Lodon. Dec. l5.--"Tell an yor
erm.. Gilse um guranstes for the
esce of Europe from the awah
u.kiiu; of Prunlan niiltarism
uaranteen Murer than those you have
roken.
"Then, and not until then. uItl the
,lips treat with you with regard to
ading the war."
leduced to its stu and s anre. ilat
the answer of fireatr-, Britrnd her
ti's to the central trweri roposal to
nter tnt, negotiatiins fr -:. it w
iven by Lloyd Geilr..i this aft noon in
he house -f coniion,
As fir th. Allies trms -tile only terms
n which the.y will r, i- peace reotia
!ons a thought-th r mier set them
("wn thusb:
"Withut reparatiin, p-ec is inpo-.
ible. Tire alli-s insist that the onl end
f the war imu-t he omnplete guarant
gainst Il'rua., i ti ilitarism disturbing
he pea.ce of Eur pe."a
\nd. with a ringing note of bitter irony.
A)t the outrages onl land and sea can
l ihe liidi l by a few pious Phrases
but humranlty''
RYSTERY SHIP CHASES
LINER FOR SIX HOURS
Vhite Star Steamer Escapes Foe by
Changing Vessel's Course.
ny the International Nells ser-ice.)
New York. Dec. 19 -Chased for -ix
tors at sea by a strange craft, blieriI
o have been a German raider, the White
tar liner Adriatie escaped b% iangini
er course several times and arrived hire
_daY.
The Adriatic sight-d her pursuer Fri
lay morning. With a gun tounted on
Ier stern the liner, turned around ani]
teamed eastward at full speed. The
trtan- craft foliowed. When thl !:e
aned. after changing her course again,
tie pursuing shili turned about and dis
ippeared.
Turning in a great circle, the Adriatic
esum-d her trip westward. The liner
ft Li erpool rp l ieember 9. three dais
11c. v th pqet y-thrie ,issen I ,
)rders from the admiralty sent the ship
round the north coast of Ireland a tnd
hen to the Azores, to avoid raiders.
rhe course then led toward the Grand
Aanks.
The ship carried 4.000 bags of Christma
nail.
CASH FOR LOST EYE LOST.
Monessen. Pa., Dec. 19.-ichael K.w
tar, 29 years old, who on Satutrday ri
eived 51,C00 compensation because of the
ra of an eye while at work in a Pitta
urgh steel mill, is now bemoaning his
ersire to celebrate because of his newly
equired wealth.
When Michael got his money he/imme
lately arranged for a ithp to New York.
rith a stop at Ashtabula as a side issue.
je started an hour after he had the
ompensation check cashed, and In less
han a half hour was minus his thou
and. He continued his journey to Ash
abula, but returned home yesterday and
aid he would get a job.
FEAJCE REIECTS PEACE.
Paris, Dec. 19--Premier Briand today
.nnounced in the senate that the allied
:overnment will send their formal reply
o Germnany's peace offer at once, dent
itely stating that the allied governments
annot soriously consider It.
The premier added that Great Britam,.
'rance and'Russla had reached aa wae
ment to this effed
Herald's Fight to Aid
Government Emphlyes
Won in Lower Heme
The developmsents yesterdmy
In the Ight for inereased wall,
for government empieoyee woes
1. FIve and 10 per sent graded
Inereases voted by the Mein A
the legislative bIn.
. Mass meeting of high schoel
teachers and District school em
ployes vote for iereased oem
pensation.
3. Arrangements eempletd
for Federal employes' nales
Iaeetlag at Natiomal Rifles' MalI
tonight.
4. Scastors agree that in
eremse for government em
ployes are imperative and that
the Hese provisimos wil be ro
vised upward.
. A. F. of L. declares It will
contimme its fght for ineressed
wagem In the Senate.
BRAILA MENACED
Rumanian Danube Port Is
Threatened on Three Sides.
Hny the International News Service.)
Berlin. via Sayville. Dec. 19.-The Vos
sisIhe Zeitung reports that although part
oi th. linanian kerosene industry
works had been destroyed before the ar
rival of the Gerinan troops, boring opera
tions and refineri-s were Immediately re
commen ed. In the near future, the pa
per adds. the oit plt of kerosene will be
-nsid,:dNl in.-res-ed. The Rumanian
opulaton is willin.; to wiork.
(Iffeial am. nt, of the operations In
T:uninmmi s-st-Iov w ere marked by lack
f d-t .ill .1 sha.l io light on the situa
i,n befors- Hriaih. the Rumanian Danube
iprt vh;-lh is nwna-ed from three sides.
lerin reports tie apture of an addi
i rise'n-rs and claims progress
y in the- Dobrudfa. where, it is an
I. 1. Mik-ni-en's forces are "ad
,:wig tw ird tie lower Danube.'
Adi.d in dication that the Gerpans ex
tect stiff resistanees trom the Russians
in th.- Mohdavia-Bessarabia line is con
taind in pthe stat. ment.
:It ma als,. he interpreted as
reain:.:the- I-rman iblie for a Teu
tn mo- in a different direction. Instead
If th, mich-talked of drive on Odessa.
An off-esie against the allied expedi
tion at Saloniki suggests Itself as the
logi-al alt-ernat ve.
German new. papers themselves appear
to I completely at tea". to the next
T.uton stroke. though Ml emphasize that
in imni se arny is released as the re
sit of the Rumari-,n -ampaign.
Tie Petrograd war office yesterday an
toun-I th rutting to flight of two
Teutor. siadrons in the region of
titogx. thirty-two miles southwest of
llrxl..
Two. cannon were left behind by the
Textonexs. who tied In disorder, according
to -lh ousan report.
Only tmitmr local enaagnements took
.- in the wooded Carpathian. the
Trans ylvanian ridies, and on the f:ont in
Rltsia.
CARRANZA OBJECTIONS
ANSWERED BY ENVOYS
American Commissioners Send Reply
to Points Raised by First Chief.
11, !TI ARIT G10lomlN
International News Service.s
Phi o thi . 1, .. ''.-Th, r.t.1 (f the
Amrn omirnioners to the o'jcctionis
nise d by Gen. i'-trrnza to tie Atlantte
t r I ,, tool is n.ow cn rout, to the
'ionsxttiuinlist First Chief at Quere
In I..
The stand t-iken I- ftie rdTmini-tration
s laid befre the Mexican repres-nta
it bite tidv t- the American men
e-. I'f the joint conmnission. The re
:r.-,d cession s of the coimission then
ii-:xreiid totii after the holldays.
A r Is- from l;.. Carranza uill he re
e i% c before the sessions will be resun
e0i, it wae said. The time and place of
teconvening the commissi.on wete left
-ten. It wasa learned that the place wIll
not 1- any of the places in which the
ieetimzs thus far have been held. and
t-at thte most favnr#d site is New Tork.
Th communilcation to 'arranza was
iis -1 hd bv the Mexlian memberxs of
the j-it cmm-iss oners :1,- set fr z xh i
If m the I to. Ix
WARRAW FOR VENEMS.
London. Dec. 19.-Dispatches from
Athens stating that a warrant has bon
u'd tire for lix. arrest of former
~imier 1?-xuhe-i.s Venizelns catte as
a : - , .fi5i1 tis today.
1tizn I l hen the champion of the
l as- in Gieece since the war be
--An ilis resolutionary government has
be ,n r.zi,ed by the allies and has
placed .,nt army In the field to fight with
tie allies.
In view of the recent expressions of
goord a-ill tx- langi C-onstantine and his
miinisters. anid thie measures adopted to
wxin the ftriendshipi of the allies, It was
regarded as surprising that the Greek
governiment would allow the warrant to
be issu ed.
El Paso. Tex., Dec. 19.-Mexican rebels
under Glen. Di and Gen. Robles have
captured Crizab, eighty miles north
west of Vera CruZ and .1alapa. both rail
way points, thus cutting Mexico City off
from Vera Cruz, according to reports to
military headquarters here tis after
noon.
Zapatista forces are reported on the
outskirts of MexIco City.
TEEW POTATOES AT DER HEAD.
Baltimore. Dec. 19.-"Its bad enough to
have a one-legged father-In-law sitting
around the hoss all day. But when ho
throws a pan of potatoes at your hoema
it's time to draw the line."
Magistrate Tormollan agreed this morn
Ing with Mrs. Mary Orems and has Issued
a summons for the pan-thrower. It all
came out when Mrs. Orian had her hum
sand_ Harrv. armsa en esmarism ha
HOUSE LIFTS SALARIES
OF FEDERAL EMPLOYES,
HEEDING HERALD PLEA
Graded Increases Granted GovernmentWorkers
on Appropriations Committee Plan-All
Under $1,800 Benefit by Action.
SENATE MAY ADD TO MEASURE
Nolan Measure Defeated on Point of Order.
Larger Increases Lose After Treasury Deficit
Is Cited by Several Members.
Twenty-five million dollars was voted into the pockets of the government
employes throughout the United States by the House of Representatives yes
terday when the legislative, executive and judicial bill was passed granting a
5 per cent salary increase to government employes receiving betwen $1.800
and $1,200 a year and a 10 per cent salary increase to those receiving less
than $1,200.
The action of the House marks victory in the movement instigated
by The Washington Herald for an increase in the salaries of government
employes to meet the increased cost of living.
Having clinched their first victory for higher salaries for goverment
employes in the House, ad.ocates of increased compensation for Federal
workers now will turn their attention to the United States Senate.
EXPECT MORE IN SENATE.
While the .ictory was somewhat tinged with disappointment for some
of the labor units working for the higher schedule, and who espected Iarger
increases, they are consoled by the knowledge that the Senate appears to
favor a higher horizontal increase than that granted by the House.
Contrary to expectations, the debate in the House was not proloagd
nor did it develop the spirited fight that was expected.
Representatiteh i~rlandfV. n ha fathered legilation to add another hor
to the work of goernimcm emph.ye in the Dietrict. offered the first amendmnt
to secti-n (, to niAke it in de!c the emply es f the I louse and Senate. On a
division in the Cormimittec of the Wh le I lou,e. hi amendment was dardo
HIGHER SCHEDULE OFFERED.
Repir-emtine Keitinz. .f Colorado, ilen iioCred the schedule of graded
increase fatored b% the American Federatisn of Labor and the Federal Em
ployes' tinion. rhis amendment provided graded increases of 2o per cent for
employes below' the Si.oo grade and to per cent increase for employes from
$1.200 to $ T.,8O. il'ive
The Colorado Representatie mAde a spirited plt for the amenadma
He cited that industrial and commercial establichnents had granted graded
increases amiounting in 'ome caecs to more thtan 40 per cent, within the last
ear, to enable employse- to keep ip with the high cost of living.
Reading from the latt st report of the Secretary of Commerce. he sho~ed
that the salari. of Feie:al employes had not been revised upward in more
than D". - > 3. report of Gen. Gorgas, of the Panama
Canal Commissio' ti at increasel salaries had operated to reduce mortality
in the 1thmu-. ;one bv iirnishing employes of the lower grade an oppor
tunity of lixing inde- better conditions.
MORTALITY STATISTICS CITED.
Referring ti the report of the Children's Bureau, Representative Keat
ing showed that the percentage of infant mortality was much greater among
tire epl w h to- alari, , were less than $;oo per year than of those
whose salaries wt ere Si.ooo or more.
Representatx Cox. of Indiana, made a spirited attack on the increases.
He declared tht the farmers and the plain workers of the country would be
obliged to lay for the increased salaries in increased taxation. He quoted
figures to show that workers in other indt:tries were not paid as much as
the governrint em1,l-v: . In respon - to inqaries, he admitted his figures
on salaries fo:- otide. industries were based on those paid in 1909.
When the -t u" 1:hn on the Ne.tmg amendment it was defeated on a
viva voce vote. Dimandire a dixi-ion, the amiendtment was voted down by a
vote of 14 t1
KEATING DOES NOT PUSH AMENDMENT.
Realiiig tha.t tie entime'nt ei the iot-e apparently was against a radical
increa-e. Relresentatixe Katine ;i n .t pre- his amendment further.
Representative Non. "f Ci f rni. u %,e recognized to (Tier his amendment
whtieh would prvid';Ie a a.y minimiwm wage for all employes included in
the legislative bil.
The reading of the amend!:runt broght an immediate point of order from
Representatic Bhyrns, of Teniessee. Representative Nolan argued that the
amendment was not subiet to the p'int , f order. Without argument Repre
sentatite IHarri,<n. of Misi-ippi, pre~-ling in the Committee of the Whole
Hlouse. sustained the point if order. Lattr it dev eloped that the California
Representative had caref':ll conidered his amendment lt disputed with the
parliamentarian ci the Hlonc oxer wlietl;er his amnuridiment 1h,uld include cer
tain employes outside of the len-I.,ttit e till. The runing of the presiding officer
threw iut the Nolan amendimemtit -in thu gro-nd that it wa, general legislation
beyond what was provided in, the spcial rile.
NOLAN BILL MAY COME UP LATER.
The amendiment does nit affect the 'tatis of the Nolan bill as it stands
on the Ho-ue calendar. While it was deceated yesterday. it still remains as
reported b\ the iH ouie Labor Committee, and when that committee is
called in the H oisc the bill will be brought up for cotisideration. It is doubt
ful whether the Labor Committee will be reached. but there is a possibility
the bill may be considered under a suspension of the rules. With the vote
of the House yesterday it is doubtful whether it would have favorable action,
even if called.
F~ollowsing the defeat of the Keatinig amiendmtent and the attempt of
Representative Nolan to have his amiendmcent con -idered, Representative
Buchanan atteiipjed to have Section 6. pro'.iding and to per cent graded
increases extend d to take in governmtent empiluoyi utp to $25o0. It im
mediately was ruled out on the point of order that the rule did not cover
employes beyond the $r,8oo grade.
since it was clearly seen that the attitude of the Illouse was not such as to
permit any greater increase in salaries than those recommended by the com
mittee, no further amendments were offered.
TELLS OF TREASURY DEFICIT.
Just before the committee rose. Chairman Fitzgerald, of the Appropriations
Committee, discussing .the proposed amendments, said that the government was
facing a deficit of $284,ooo3000. With the acquisition of the Danish Wast In
dies it was certain this deficit would amount to $too,oo,o00, he said. Under
these conditions the appropriations chairman declared it would be unwise to in
Icrease the expenses of government beyond the figures recommended by the
SAppropriations Committee. He said the Keating amendment would increase
the pay roll of the government $5i,ooo,ooo, while the recommendations made
by the committee would only add $25,o0ooo0 to the salary list.
Represenatativ.e Rainey, of Illinois, had previously supplemented this state
meat of te. ,.harua byr emarks of a similar character.
