w K A THER
? quite so ?old \Vc\in-?dav
??ng ?Joudinc?.*
-?ate. variable winds
I i.ll Rej????? on l'a?? ?
1 \\\ I V?. 25,602
a?l&?
?fritome
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 l'ail
Net Paid. Non-Returnable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials - Advertisements
I? op? right ?BIS?
1 he Trihnn? ??< n |
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916
a ? a
a-xax-l' il.'VT ?" tons ??'>? *??*?? *'7VV
ONE * la> I jerae* ?.I? ??'! H?i*>--*??n
No Peace, Says Lloyd George, Until Germany
Atones for Wrongs and Ceases To Be Menace
PEACE PARLEY
NEAR? ASSERTS
BERNSTORFF
Second German Note
to Offer Allies Big
( oncessions
Til TONS READ\
TO PAY INDEMNITY
Hold 11 ( heaper Hum War
?Willing to Consider
4 \ny Terms
u ?
. "arenca, i
a ill pror:
iog t,. g-et it. This was
?
? rs h or?? to-day on
rge's intimation that cer
i. d proii;;?.r* of
Btion must he forthconr,' .
''1 accep
sal,
beeo unqut '
n ,.' ready to protest
0 futl ? -? pr-a-P
0 g ree?
ll un f' :?re-: .alien
would prove a Pturn
. block, but the ittrprialnf aaser
uon was. made that, 'iormariy might
?y by way
?if reparation to Belgium
continuing
??
Btrnstorff Predict? < ?inference
Amhasasdor von P.? rnstorff, who
rarely allows hit:".>eif to he quoted
on a;:y subject, was BO confident to
?*y that a conference was in sight
that ? Hze-d (he following
-
"It looks to mo a? if the matter
?a?. ?ans finished by the
British Premier's speech. I expect
that after one more exchange of
note? we f-hall get together in a con?
fer?
The Allied reply, he think?, will he
' ? ? ptaarf nor a flat
0 proposai,
?i fer < iVr
I a- | ? her note. I.' -
mariy undoubtedly arlU do th
--.'' ? a chance of its lead
? g to no ? and will phra-e
-- BOMBd note in such a way that
H carnet . ?s it will ac
?ede. partially at lfa?t,to the Ptipula
'
OppoAe Making Term? Public
? i'?:.!- ? - * cr ?ppcifie terme,
?! i.eorge as a pre
? i.enr?an quarter?
K n talk gets nowhere." AH
n diplomacy ?how?, it .m
'd, that negotiation? carried on
aeeem] nothing. Only
?atesrien of all the belliger
?he ?ame room"
<*?n progrees Inward j.eare be made.
? general outline of
*<i o\ercome the
?
? ah official ?luarters also the
naa regarded aa fa
? on of peace.
? , ? ;,?!??," ana
' -lentcd. "And that is a
seal to otan with."
Neutral? Musi IHaarm. Too
the future, in the
ikes to mean much
*,r* ' . ' ' ? ?arantee?, it
- uta'.'.y to be ??
ia* ions involved in thi?
the neutral?. !? ?
led that the European bellig
eonld not regula*.? their arma
out the aimt regulations
?ne neutrals, including
latea
'* ??ai a ? '.emiari quarters
? * '?ermany has
? put for* - I at the Irre?
? minimum. "No ration." it was
minimum
W hen th? I - - ?round
ind tab!. ??'.??-> body will have to
'
' ' the Blatter of reparation, m
-pon by I.loyti Cieorge and here
<?'cre ridiculed by Germany, may !.nd
?or.ferer.ee OCt?
44 ai y rute, ?erruar y
?ai d.?cu?Mon o' it from the
? .
? a il baired." a <,erme
W e are ?
*aaUaa?M. ?a va?? t. laiu-aa a
U. ?S. ACTION WOULD BE
HASTY. CAPITAL THINKS
19.
practi
m the
Brili'iS
'?.igton. Drr
('flic i.i i Washington
cially ix uii.inimous
"pinion thai the
Piemier's speech lias shown
tli.it any positiie action by
the Uaited Slate?, toxvard
mediation not only would be
preauture hut might rm
barrasi roch action later.
It was stated authori?
tatively to-night thai for the
present the United
xxould act only as an inter?
mediary transmitting com
munications brtxvren the b?*l
hgrimts.
EVERY BRITON
MUST SERVE
.Man-Power Controller
i
in Lloyd George's
Vast War Plans
. . -
- !"?r. ir?. Every K. ilisb r?
I in men. mor.ey. food and ship?
? thrown into the vn on ,-. ?rale
before dreamed of in Britain,,
and txearech equalled ex-en by Ge*r
gigantic efforts, under the
emier Lloyd t.eorge |
, outline?' to the lomtnoiis thi? after- !
indirectly, by promis
irered a second I
'?er-nan pence proposals.
I In.id l.eor-rr? ??-?n Programme
?.??r measures are chiefly
, these:
er.-n! r.a'.or.al serriee. ?very
;- called upon to fire *?i?
?trenrtti to the nation, in i
teeer place it should be judged
be most efficient.
Nevillo rhamberlain, brother of Jo
( speh Auster I hamborlain, ha? been
? t of (ires' Britain's
mm- power.
' c Stest? ifl regard ?o erres?
profits, to insnre that the wealth of
' the nation is a' it? disposal.
??>??? rational control of food.
The nationalization of shipping.
An itnper , - iir-nre, to give
"? dominions a larger share in the
eontrol <?f the x?ar
A settlement of the Irish ques- !
tion, though on what grounds was !
tated
rilimate Victor? Sure
?'! a"i eonilneed ultimate victory is
sure if the nation show? ?he same spirit
e nnd readiness to Irarn a?
the mud ?tained armies et the front,"
the Pi I in laying down his
programme.
Turning to the n ere purely political
of the domrit r problems before the
new ministry, Lloyd ??eorge said :
"The organisation of the new ? ab
net best adapted for the purpose of.
In war ?ou want prompt deci
-? and the Allies have ?utTered dis
tster from tardiness of
X ou cannot conduct war m :th
k Sanhedrim."
lie Premier a!?o announced that it
had !?? '? to gp.c recognition to
I former Premier Ycrizelos
In reference to 'he mobilization of
'labor, Lloyd ??'? '':?? a new
?department of two sections, military'
-, ?'.. would be created. It was
?.,.r) to have a scheduling of I
; dustries. rerta'n trades being regarded
- being pro
vided for them. Volunteen would be
,a?(i? -,, come forward tot this work,
bat if they did not ?!o so the govern?
ment xvould not shrink from asking for
. ttlsor** power?.
( hamberlain to Enroll Men
I nation is fighting for life," ?aid
x'. r Lloyd l.eorge, "and is entitled to
the be i sorvieea of all citizens. I he
government has been fortunate in in
ducing Neville ? hamberla-.n. Lord
Vuvo: of Birmingham, to accept the
],o-\ of Director ('.enen.1 under this
scheme He will immediately proceed
; to organize a grist system ^of enrol
? I
"It is not a mere hapharaid law of
supply and demand that will accomplish
thai which :i necessary <-o ?-ave ? na
the time the.?ential
Bold be accoii.pliahed.
"It is not a question of yeats; it is
B ., BBtion ot nionth?, pi-rhapt? week?,
and unies? not merely the material re
??? of the country, bu' the labor
of the country, is used to the best ad
. ar.tage and ?very man i? called upon
?? to the state a?
? iv ,? beyond our
reach."
problem, th? Pre?
?
"The The har
. ted ?States and t'anadu
are failures, sad the Argentine prom
I una? ailable, and
own harvest is por. While only thrce
-he normal winter sowing
| to bad weather
tances th?- lam
?? a food
. ear re
? ? 'liai no man ?hall suffer
,.s too
R?,* ?he
? ???'.Lilu.? va ya?, t, eesas?a i
Lloyd Georges Answer to Germany
?r
/ and m. Dee. U ? - . ,-,/..' (,>o>;ir.
' U ' Ht doy, eaid:
1 appear before tho HOUBO ol Common?
th the i ; ?sibil*
ity that can fall ?.; boulders ol
living man ? ol the
? ?'roam, in thi ? tic w;.r in a hieb
this cov ., ? ? ?- engaged a war
upon the event .?i which its destiny de?
pend*, h is thi war ever waged.
it,, burden are the heaviest that have
been cast upon this 01 ;?
and the ?ssuet ?the gra-.c-; that ha-,
tied to any conflict in which human?
ity was 04 er Involved.
The respon ibilitie ,?' th.- new govern?
ment have ? Idenly accentuated by
the declaration made l'y thp German
* haneellor. The tan men; ma?le by him
in the Reichstag - ? followed bj a
note presented by the United States with?
out not?- or comment. The answer given
by this government will be given in full
accord a ith our Allies.
Naturally, there ha t?.-. i.ange
of views?not upon thp note, ' ? ca?
bas only recently arrived hut upon thp
speech which impelled it. and as thp noto
Itself i practically only a reproduction or
a paraphrase i f the speech, the suhjer' of
the note itself has been dis.-ussed informal
h ?between the Allies, I am glad tobe able
to state that we eaeh, separately and in
dependently. arrived at identical ???inclu?
sions.
Franc? and Russia First
I am very glad that the fil
.: ron to thp Etatemenl of thp (.erman
Chancellor wa? -_ri\ ?*-n by France an?l Rua?
va. They have the unquestionable right
to give tha firtl Bl ? '? ach an invita?
tion. The enemy is -till on their ?soil and
their sacrifices have been the greater.
The answer they have [given has already
appeared In thfl pBJWrs, and I .'.imply stand
?here te give clear and definite support to
the statement they haw. already made.
Any man or set of men who wanton!*.
or without sufficient cause, prolonged a ter?
rible criTiflivt like this would have, on his
soul a crime that ocean? could not elBBBBO.
On ti"?* other hand, it i equally true
th; t any man or s.-t of men. who, from a
sense of weariness or despair, abandoned
thp struggle without achieving the high
purposes for which we entered it, would be
guilty of the costliest, act ?if poltroonery
ever perpetrated by any statesman. I
should likp t?> ?quote tl??? words ol Abraham
Lincoln under i-imilar conditions:
"Wo accepted this war for an object, and
a world object, and the war will end when ,
the object IS attained under God. I hope ;
it will never end until that time."
Are we likely t.. achieve the object by
accepting the invitation of the Gennan
Chancellor'.' What an? the proposals?
There ?ire |
To enter on the invitation of Germany,
proclaiming herself victorious, without
any knowledge of what proposals she pro
p - t?> make, into a conference is to put
? ur heads inte a noose with th<- ropp end
in the hands ?if Gem
Military Despots Not New
This country is not altogether without
experience in these ?matters. This is not
the firtl time WO have fought a great mill
tary despotism ovenhadowing Kun.pe,
and it won't be the firtt time we have
helped to overthrow a military despotism.
Wo ha*.<? ?m uncomfortable historical
memory of Ines, thing-, and can recall
one of the greatest of these despots, whOBO
favorite device was te appear in ?tho garb
of an BBgel ol peace, ?-.tuer when he
wished time ti? assimilate his conqueato or
to reorganise hi- forceo for fresh con
quests; or, secondly, when hi- sub
showed symptoms ol fatigue and war
wearineas, an appeal was always ma?le in
the name of humanity. He demanded an
end to the blood.?!?? ?I at win. b he pro
feaoad himself horrified, although he him
sell was mainly responsible.
Our ancestors were taken in once, and
bitterly they and Europe rue it The
time was devoted te reorganizing his
forces for ? deadlier attack than over
upon the liberties ol Europe. Examples
01 this kin?! CBUae us to regard this note
with ? considerable measure ol reminis?
cent disquietude.
We teel that we ought to know, before
WO can give favorable consideration to ?'
ouch un invitation, that Germany is pre?
pared to ac?-ede to the only terms on which
It is possible peace can be obtained and ?
maintained in Europe Tho*c terms have
been repea'.e.lly stated by all the leading
statesmen of the Allies. Tiny have l>eeii
stated repeatedly here and outside. To
. the leader of the House la?: week:
"Reparation and guarantee against rape?
titl. so there shall be no mistake, and it
?a important that there should be M mis
take in o matter ? I life of death t.? mill
Reiterates Reparation Policy
I.,.?* nie t? BOB! . plete restitution, full
reparation and cffritual guarantees
I ?id the German Chancellor us?- a - ingle
phrase to indicate that he was i reparad to
.. tcept a ?peace? Was there a hint of resti?
tution? Was there a | tie ofrepara
Wa-- there a
lecuritv for ire, that this outrage
, ,,-... ? again be pcrp ?
! rated at the first profitable opportunity?
The very -ubsur.ee and style of the
speech constitute a denial of peace on the
only terms on whirh peace is DOBOible. He
?S not even conscious now that (?ermany
s committed any offer,? ?? ?against the
ol free nations. Listen to this from
ihe not-:
Not tor an instant have they (the ( en
tral Powers) swerved from the conviction
that respect of the rights of other ?nathms
iii any degr??- incompatible with
lheir own rights and legitimate interests."
When did they ?diocover this'.' Where
' o respect for the right- of other na
n Belgium and Serbia'.'
1 hat was .-elf-defence, menaced, I BUp
by the overwhelming armic? of Bel
gium. 1 suppose tu ? Germans had been
intimidated into invading- Belgium and
burning Belgian cities and villages, into
massacring thousands o? the inhabitant?,
old and young, into carrying off the sur?
vivors itito bondage. Ves, and th?-y were
carrying llvm into slavery at the very
moment when ibis note aras being writ
? ten about their unswerving conviction as
to the re pert due to the rights O? other
nations.
Outrages Versus Guarantees
Ar<- those outrages the legitimate in?
terest ol Germany? We must know. That
is not a movement for peace, if excuses of
thi-- kind for palpable crimes can lie put
forward two an?l one-half years after OX?
pa 'ire by the grim facts, is there any
guarantiee that .similar subterfuges will
not bo used in tha future to overthrow any
treaty of peace you may enter into with
Prua Ian militarism'.'
The. note and ??peech prove that they
have not yet learned the alphabet of ro>
sppct for the rights of others.
Without r?paration p?*a?-e is impossible.
Are all these outrages against humanity
or 1-a.nd and sea to dp liquidated by a few
piou? phrases about humanity'.' Germany
leaves Ufl to exact the damage tor all
future violence committed after the war.
We must exact it. now, so as not to leave
such a grim inheritance to our children.
No Hope Given for Future
Much as we all long for peace, deeply j
as we are horrified with war, this note ;
I ami speech which herald it do not afford
us much encouragement to hope for an
honorable and lasting peace.
What hope is given in the speech that
the whole root and cause of this great bit
terneso the arrogant spirit of the Prua*
ian military caste will not be as domi
, riant as ever if we patch up peace now? The
; very speech in which these peace sugges?
tion!? are maile resounds to the boast of
Prussian military triumph. It is a long
paaii ??ver the victory of von Hindenburg. ,
We must keep a steadfast eye upon the
purpc-o for which we entered the war.
Otherwise, the proat sa.-rilices we have
been making will he in vain.
Thp (ierman note states that it was for
the defpnee of their existence and the free?
dom of national development that the Cen?
tral Powers were constrained to take up
arm:-. Such phrases are intended to delude
the lierman nation into supporting the
designs of the Prussian military caste. Who
?ver wished to put an end to their national
existence or freedom of development0 We
welcomed their development so long as it
was on the paths of peace.
TIip Allie- entered this war to defend j
Europe against the aggression of Prus?
sian military domination, and, having be?
gun it, they must insist that the only end
.? the morst complete, effective fruaranti-e
against the possibility of that caste ovei
again disturbing the peace of Europe.
Prussia, since she got into the hands of
.?ste, has been I had Deighl
arrogant, threatening, bullying, shifting
her boaodarieo at will and taking one fair
field after another from her weaker neigh?
bors ami adding them to her own domin?
ions.
Belt Full of Weapons
Wi'h her belt ostentatiously full of
'..eaporis of offence and ready at a mo?
ment's notice to use them, she ha- el?
v. a>- been an anpleaaant, disturbing
neighbor in Europe. She got thoroughly
on the nerves of Europe; there was BO
peace near where she dwelt. It is difficult
for those who are fortunate enough to live
thousands of miles away to understand
what it has meant to those who live near.
Even here, with the protection of broad
,-eas between us. WO kr.ow what a disturb?
ing factor the Prussians wer? with their
.?.instant naval menace. But we can hard?
ly realize what it meant to France and
Several times there were threat
directed against then,, even within the life?
time of thi* generation, which presented
the alternative of war or humiliation.
There were many of us who hoped that the
internal influence in t?ermanv would be
strung enough to check and ultimate.y to
eliminate it.
Now that this great war ?has been
forced by the Prussian leaders, it would
le folly not to see to it that thi? BWBBB*
buckling through tho -tree*? of Ku>-ope
a*??l thi- distirbat.ee of p \7.en
". a- dealt with here und now a? the mo?'
erioui offence against the law of n_ ??jp.v
\\> will wait until we hesr what to
tnd gUS 'he (?erman go'prnment
offer other than thae-t ettei than
surer thai those which she HI lightl)
broke, and meanwhile we shall put our
trust in our unbroken army, rather than
in broken faith.
For tho montent I do not think it a i
be advisable for nu- to a?i?l anything upon
particular invitation. A formal reply
will be delivered by the Allies in 'he ,
of the next few daj I.
Army Like Fine Steel
An absolutely new army. The obi had
????ne its duty and spOBl it-elf in the
achievement of that great task. This is a
new arm;,. A y?ar ago il WBI ire in the
earth of Britain? yea, and of Ireland. It
became iron. It has pas-ed through the
lia'ry ftirna.e and (he enemy knows that it
is now line steel.
An absolutely new army. New men.
r??'w officers, taken from schools; boys from
schools, from colleges, from counting
never trained to war, never
thought of war; many, perhaps, never
handled a weapon of war; genera!?? never
given an opportunity of handling great
masses ol men.
They have faced the greatest am?;, in
the world, fhe greatest army the world
has e* he best equipped, Hie beat
trained and they have beaten them.
beaten them, beaten them.
Battle after battle, day after day, week
alter week, in the strongest intrei.phments
over devised by human skill, they have
driven them out by valor, valor which is
incredible when you read the story of it.
Old Cabinet Top-Heavy
I have no doubt that the old Cabinets
were better adapted te navigate the par?
liamentary rivi r, with its shoals and shift
i: g sand-, and perhaps for a cruise in
home waters. But a Cabinet of twenty
three was rather top-heavy for a gale. I
do not say that this ne-, eraft is best
adapted for parliamentary navigation, but
I am convinced that it, is best, for war.
It is true that in a multitude of coun?
sellors thpre is wisdom that was written
for Oriental countries in peace time. You
can't run a war with a Sanhedrim:* That
is the meaning of our Cabinet of live and
of its members doing sentry duty outside,
manning the ways and defending the
council chamber against attack while we
arc trying to do your work inside.
You can't have absoluto equality in
sacrifice in war. That is impossible. But
you can have equal readiness to sacri?
fice from all. There are hundreds of
thousands who have ?given their lives;
there are millions who have given up
comfortable homes and exchanged them
for daily communion with death. Multi?
tudes have given up thOBC whom they
loved beat.
Let the nation M a whole place its
comforts, its luxuries, its indulgences, its
elegances on the national altar consecrated
by BUch sacrifices OS these men have
made. I .et us proclaim ?luring the war
a national Lent. The nation will be bet?
ter and stronger for it -mentally and
morally, a? well as physically. It will
strengthen its fibre an?) ennoble its spirit.
Without it we shall not get the full benefit
of this struggle
Nation Must Take Burden
Our armies have driven th?* enemy out
of the hattere?! villages ol France and
across th? devastated plain.-, of Belgium.
They might hurl him acros.- the Rhin?- in
battered disarray. But, unle?s the na?
tion as a whole shoulders part of the bur
den ol victory it won't profit by the tri
t'inph, for it is not v.hat a nation gain?-,
but what it gives, that makes it great.
If ?n this war I have oaid scant heed
to the call of party, it il because I real?
ized from the moment the Pru?-ian can
non hurle?! ib-ath at a peaceable and in
.?? little country that a challenge
had ?been sent to civilisation to deciil?- an
is ue higher than party, deeper than
party, wider than all parties, an issue
upon* the settlement of which will depend
the fate of the men in this world for gen?
erations, when existing parties will have
tallen like dead leaves on the highway.
Those :s-ues are the issues I want to
keep in front of the nation, so that we
shall not falter or faint in our resolu
I |OT s.
There i? a time i*i every prolonged and
fierce war when, in the passion and rage
of conflict, m?-n forget the high purpose
with which they entered it. Thi? is a
-'.riggle for international right, interna?
tional honor, international good faith?
the channel along which peace, honor and
good will must flow among men
The embankments laboriously built up
by generations of nr ?. ? I barbarism
have been broken, and had not ihe might
of Britain pa-sr-d u.to the breach Europe
would ha--? tted with u flo'd
ol savagery and unbridled lujt of power.
The policy of a common front must be a
reality. It is en the other side. Austrian
?ire helping the (?erman infantry and
(?erman infantry i*. stiffening the Austrian
arms. The Turk? are helping the I,.
. Auatrians and Bulgar.ar.s mix with
.-.11. There is an e ? ?cling that
there i? but one front, and ara ha o get to
?gel that more and more, instead of having
overwhelming guns on one ido and harp
..: '. ??a'lant 'learts on 'he other.
MUST SUPPRESS PRUSSIAN
MILITARISM, HE ASSERTS
Declares England Entered War t(
Save Humanity and Will Not
Malt Until Guarantee of
Hutu re Has Been Obtained
CALLS FOR MORE SACRIFICE
TO SUPPORT MEN AT FRONT
Asquith Pledges Support to Successor, Say?
ing There Is No "Opposition" Now?Im?
perial Conference To Be Called, with
All Colonies Represented
By ARTHUR S. DRAPER
(By Cable tat? The Tribune.)
?London, Dee. 19.?Reparation for the past and .security
for the future?these were the keynotes of the reply made by
Premier Lloyd (?eorge in the House of Commons to-day on behalf
of Great Britain and her allies to Germany's peace proposals.
If Germany is honest and sincere in her desire for peace,
then Lloyd George's reply must be interpreted as an appreciable
step forward; a distinct advance over the position which faced
the warring nations a week ago.
This is Lloyd George's day. He completely dominates the
situation. To night people are saying that while he was selected
, for Premier as a war maker, he is just as capable as a peace
! maker. His first speech as Premier showed broadness of mind,
1 keen vision and skilful dinlomacy.
If Germany intended her offer as an embarrassment to
, the Allies then the Kai.ser and Bethmann-Hollweg have been out?
pointed in their first duel with the leader of the new government.
Germany must try again, but must come in a different
i frame of mind. But if reports of the feeling and conditions
?within the Central Powers are any criterion of the true situ
lation, a second peace offer will not be long in coming.
REFUSE TO PUT HEAD IN GERMANY'S NOOSE
"There were no proposals for peace," read Lloyd (?eorge
1 from his manuscript. "To enter into proposals of which we
| have no knowledge would be to put our heads into a noose,
with the ends of the rope in the hands of Germary."
Loud cheers greeted this passage, showing c!?\-irly the feol
ir.g of the majority of his hearers.
But a moment later Lloyd George said that the Allies
should know what Germany was prepared to concede before
?entering upon negotiations, and every one interpreted this re?
mark as a direct invitation to Bethmann-Hollweg to make an?
other statement.
Nothing the Premier said showed any final objection feo
: peace negotiations.
No passage in his address attracted more attention, and
: none will be read with closer interest in Germany, than his
reference to Prussian militarism. .Mr. As?]uith, as Premier,
reiterated time and again that militarism "must be crushed."
Premier Lloyd George modified this to this extent, that "the
only road to peace must be a guarantee against Prussian mili?
tarism again disturbing the peace of Europe."
Constant applause punctuated the address, Liberals and
Tories alike voicing approval. By his first speech the new
Premier has brought together, over strong opposition, and
welded into a powerful support elements widely separated.
VOICES VIEWS OF ALLIED GOVERNMENTS
Too much emphasis cannot br* placed on the f i< ? thai
Britain's allies are looking to her mor?* and mure for BUpporl
and leadership, and that Lloyd George's reply to-dfty repre?
sents the views of all the Allied governm?*nts.
If his speech was free from boastfulness and la rain^ :i.
fire expected from the "ginger leader." it was none the less
firm, strong and confident.
Having .shown the Allies' readiness tor peace on reason?
able terms, and their unwillingness to prolong the war beyond
the point where the enemy will agree to make reparation for
the past, and guarantee that in the future there will be no
?repetition of aggression, the Premier told his radical plans
for the prosecution of the war.
The foremost is practically a levy en masse on the whole
population of Great Britain, with Neville Chamberlain, Lord
Mayor of Birmingham and brother of Joseph A. Chamberlain.
as director general. It will be his duty to see that every man
gives his highest efficiency to the state, whether in the army,
in a factory or on the farm. Nothing more radical has comc
i'rom the war, not even in Germany's colo?sal efforts.
Though only vaguely referring to Ireland, it was plain
that he considered it the least of his difficulties, and Home
Rule only an incident to the great reformations which he
plans.
IMPERIAL CONFERENCE TO BE CALLED
Then h?* announced tha*. henceforth the Dominions ar?
I to play a bigger part in the war, and that an imperial con
