'1' 1 ''Ji':k -' - 'if-V'X'iy.'F st '- "A-
I t il it
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and slightly warmer to-day; to
morrow, increasing cloudiness.
Highett tetnperaturt yesterday, 30: lowest, ai.
Detailed weather, m4l and murine reports on page 11.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
a
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916. Copyright, . by the Bun Printing and PMItMng AtiociaHon.
ONE CENT
In Oreater New York, t Elsewhere
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 111.
5VLVL
LABOR PUZZLE
FOR CONGRESS
Unions' Reversal on 8 Hour
Law Is Mystifying to
Legislators.
GOMl'KHS WON'T EXPLAIN
Head of A. F. of L., It Is Said,
Now Favors Repeal of
Kail road Measure.
Washington, Dee. 1. A pronounced
chinge In sentiment with respect to the
Adamson law on tho part ot labor Is
perceptible here. Loaders In Congress
confess to bo mystified by what appar
ently l a complcto reversal of labor's
position. There Is a humorous touch to
the situation owing to the well rccog
plied fact that the law was constructed
to win labor votes at tha last election.
The American federation labor lead
ers are Intimating now that they would
prefer to have the law oft the statute
book?. Tho Democratic leaders there
fore have been driven Into the position
ot defending the law against the labor
people. Judge Adamson, Its author, re
Iterated to-day that the law would stand
whether labor liked It or not. Chair
mat Newlands of the Benate Committee
tikes the position that whatever was
done last summer by Congress was dono
In the Interest of the public. Labor will
have a hard time getting the law re
pealed. It seems.
Samuel Oompers refused to-day to dls,
runs the report that he had promised the
brotherhood' chiefs he would Intercede
with the l'resldent and with Congress to
hive the law repealed, but the statement
was msile for him that ho had always
taken the position that hours of labor
should bo fixed by agreement rather than
by legislation.
tabor Didn't Ask for the Law.
Trunk Morrison, secretary of tho fed
eratlon. said to-day that labor had not
soked for the Adamson law In spite of
tie rreneral Impression that It had.
"It Is well to keen clear on this," said
Mr. Morrison. "The brotherhoods threat
ened to strike If they did not get an
eight hour day. The Adamson law wai
brought about by the President and Con
crest as a way of compelling tho rail
roads to accede to tho men's terms. Tt
iras not sought for by labor. It might
have been better If It had not been
raised. Tha eight hour day might have
been won either through agreement or
by labor's weapon, a strike. Our po
rtion always has been that It Is better
13 secure better working nours ana Dei
ter conditions by agreement through ex
ertlng our economic strength than by
legislation."
Mr. Morrison refused to say whether
or not the federation was working to
secure a repeat of the law. Intimating
that this was largely up to the brother
hoods. At the Italtlmore convention of
the federation tt was resolved to ap
iwlnt a committee to confer with tho
brotherhoods, tho report stating that this
as deemed adv sable because a "con
tent Is now on Involving these employees,
the government of our country and the
railroad corporations, and the facts
brought out In this contest, and tho final
determination will vitally affect the eight
hour prlnclplo for nil workers."
Committee to Be Appointed.
This committee, according to Mr. Mor
r'son. has not as yet been appointed, but
It Is believed Mr. Oompers has been
carrying on negotiations already paving
the way for It. and that this has resulted
In the alleged agreement' to work to re
peal the law.
Significant emphasis was laid by Mr.
Morrison to-day, however, on the po
sition taken by the federation at the
Fan Francisco convention a year ago, as
epressed by tha following:
"It cannot be overemphasized that the
wage earners must depend on their
economic organisations for securing n
shorter workday. This method Is not
only effective In securing for the work
ers this fundamental step In their bet
terment, hut It enables them at tho same
time to maintain their Independence and
resourcefulness, together with the right
to determine those things which affect
the conditions under which they must
toll. To secure the shorter workday by
sny other method makes It necessary for
the wage earners to delegate to other au
thorities other things which vitally affect
them and whlcli constitute a limitation
upon their activities and their rights,
and thus finally lessen their freedom."
Compere Oppose Legislation.
Mr. Morrison raid that this still de
fined the attitude of the federation to
ward tho Adamson law. Furthermore, he
said Samuel Oompers, Its president,
when he appeared before the Senate
'ommlttee last summer when the Adam
son law was up, had said that while he
was In favor of the principle of the eight
hour day ho did not believe In getting It
by legislation.
Tho general Impression of the mem
bers of Congress who tumbled over
themselves to vote for this law In order
to win labor votes was that Mr. Oompers
rot only then was for an eight hour day
Eeneinlly but wanted to see the Adamson
bill passed.
It was Intimated to-day that the np
parent change of sentiment toward tho
Adamson law is all part of a plan for
defeating the President's proposal for a
compulsory Investigation of railroad la
bor disputes. The federation leaders
deem this more vital to them thaif any
fight hour Jaw, particularly one applica
ble only to a certain class of workers.
They are fearful that the President Is to
Insist upon It. They believe that by urg
ing now the repeal of the law passed last
summer they can, In some way, avert
legislation which will, In their belief,
urb their power more drastlrtilly than
any legislation ever before proposed.
ROADS WON'T PROTEST.
Managers Wllllac to See Klsht
Hoar Law Repealed.
Railroad managers of the country are
willing to agree with the "Big Four"
brotherhoods pn the repeal of the Adam-
on eight hour law If the employes
organisations will not require the active
"(operation of the road In the enterprise.
They will give passive acquiescence to
the brotherhoods' and Ha muel Clompera'a
efforts toward the nullification of the
law. This promise of unmllltant al-lUiu-"
was forecast yeattrday by one of
l lie foremost railroad men of the United
aiales. . .
The roads wl not ftcht for the law'a
SANTA IS LOADING VP
WITH STACKS OF GOLD
Ho Sends His Agents to the
Sub-Treasury for Bright
Now Pieces. -
A long line of men. women and chil
dren, each holding a roll of bills and
each one wearing a more or less broad
grin, lined from the Pine street entrance
naif through the Hub-Trcasury IJulldlng
yesterday, seeking to change the paper
currency Into Christmas gold.
so long did tho line become that It
threatened to overflow Into the street.
nnd Treasury officials promptly broke It
Into two parts, opening a window on tho
opposite side of the hall, behind which
were stacKca nunureds or now gold
pieces.
The line gave evldenco that tho otd
custom of giving gold for Christmas will
ue largely followed thla year. Many
of tho firms down town havo followed
me gold glvlne custom for more than
half a century.
uur demand for old nieces Is heavv
and WO ex Dec t It in Incrs.-ms In volume
dally until Christmas." said a Treasury
official yesterday. "Hut wo have an
ainpio supply on hand for this ctm r-
gency and we will be able to meet the
wants or everybody."
Paying" Teller Malnard between tho
busy times of taking In paper money
and handing out gold said that the de
mand appears to be equally distributed
between half eagles, eagles and double
eagles.
"If anyfhlnr." ha .iM. "I wntiM IiMf.
that the demand thla v.ir for tii. hrr
colne Is the greatest"
H. C. FAHNESTOCK'S
ESTATE $16,630,685
Banker "Was Said to Have Left
553,000,000 Christmas
Bonus for Heirs.
An Increase In the estate of Harris
Charles Fahnestock, prominent banker.
tnnt win come In tho nature of n Christ
mas bonus to his heirs, was made known
yesterday by the transfer tax appraisal
nie! in tne surrogates Court by Ap
praiser John J. Lyons. The net vuluo
of the property was placed at 116,630,-
685.
When Mr. Fahnestock, who was at
one time a member of Jay Cooke ft Co.
of Philadelphia, In Its day the most
powerful banking Institution In the
country, died on Juno 4, 1914, the gen
eral estimates of this estate were much
lower, than this, some persons rating It
in the neighborhood of I J. OO0.000. Ac
cording to tho report filed yesterday the
tax accruing to the State will be about
l&sv.ooo.
The largest single asset of the estate
and the one which counted for most
In the enhanced valuation consisted of
10,000 shares of the capital stock of tho
First National Bank of New York, which
wrc appraised at IS.87.',00l). The ex
ecutors of the estate, who were the sons,
William, Gibson and Harris, objected to
tho valuation of the stock at $87 u
share, contending that it should not bo
aopralsed higher than 1630,
Tt Is expected an uppeal on the ques
tion of the worth of tho stock will bo
taken to the Surrogate. Before fixing
his valuation the appraiser heard testi
mony from brokers specializing In bank
stocks, and stated In his report that he
found evidence of actual sales nf tho j
siock ai su, issu, ?s'Jj ami 'JUU a
share.
Other stocks owned by Mr. Kahnestock
were 0,631 shares of P., L. & W. It.
It.. 11,919,939; 4,700 shares of Tide
water OH Company, 1611.009; 2,900
shares of Central R. R. of N. J.. $889.-
937, nnd 8.960 chares of Pennsylvania
It. It., 1493, 264. The decedent, who
gave large sums to philanthropy during
his life, but generally In the name of
others, left public bequests exceeding
$500,000. Besides the executors the
residuary legatees are Clarence and Kr
nest Fahnestock and Helen Fahnestock
Campbell.
WAR DEPT. BUYS 4,000
V1CKERS MACHINE GUNS
Action Construed as Finally
Disposing Of the Lewis
Controversy.
Washington. Dee, 19. In accordance
with the original recommendations of
the special machine gun board, the War
Department let contracts to-day for 4,000
Vlckers machine guns and accessories
nt n. cost of 15.600.000. It was an
nounced that additional contracts soon
would be let which would bring the sum
to be expended on such weapons for
the regular army and the National
Guard lib to about 19,500,000.
Tho Department's decision was con
strued oa finally disposing of the sug
eeitlon that the Lewis machlno gun, con
cerning which there has been a hitter
controversy, should be adopted as the
nrmy standard, m announcing tne
award Iho department let It be known
that tho machine gun board had been
reconvened to consider the Lewis gun.
and after holding extensive hearings had
adhered to Its original recommendation,
The board recommended that all funds
available for tho purchaso of machlno
guns, except about $1,000,000, should be
exnended for lexers guns and acces
sorles. The reserve sum will be held
nendlng further tests of tho various
types of guns, a number ot which' may
be purcnascu ior experimental purposes
"JOY RIDING" HAND CAES.
Lehigh Valley Installs Gasolene
Driven Vehicles,
No longer will Cllacomo Oarlb.TTdl. sec
tton hand on tho Lehigh Valley Railroad,
or any of his fellows have to break theli
backs working a handcar ten miles down
the track to replace a tie, drive home a
spike or scrape Ice out of a ditch. If
utacomo Is told to do nny of thes
thinrs In a place remote from his bunk
house he will hoard a gasolene driven
motor car and speed to the scene of the
endeavors' at any gait ho selects up to
twenty-five miles an hour.
The new vehicle will not be an auto,
mobile, although motor driven and gaso
Una fed. It will be like the old cars, ex
cent larger and gasolene driven. Kach
will be large enough to carry ten men,
The railroad has ordered 14 of these,
whirh will be distributed along the line,
When they are delivered they will be
enougn in nouuieii iw mv i uww m
and the Old mmcm wiu oe scrappe.
EX-BOWERY BAD
MEN IN JUBILEE
i
Celebrate 26th Anniversary
of Johnny Callahan's
Conversion.
EULOGIZE A SOUL SAVER
Former Derelicts and Noted
Churchmen Laud llcscuo
Mission Head.
One time convicts, a Hlshop, ex-bartenders,
an editor of the Methodist Book
Concern, a former forger one by one
they came Into tho old stronghold of the
Paul Kelly gang at 293 Bowery yester
day afternoon to help tho Itc'v. John
to help Johnny Callahan observe the
twenty-sixth anniversary of his con.
version.
Johnny, as ths Ilowery knows the
Ilev. John Callahan, who once was a tT,cn exceeded only three times In the
....... ,. , ' . . . . ., city's history. The largest majority,
convict himself, but now Is head of the ,Si61j( was recordM ,n m5.
Hadley Rescue Mission In tho Bowery' Tho liquor question overshadowed all
as well as n chaplain of ths Tombs, told other Issues In the campaign, and both
Bishop Luther B. Wilson of the Metho- tho license and no license forces were
dlst Church, the Rev. David O. Downey I represented by many workers In vlr
of the Methodist Book Concern, Kd 1 tually every precinct. Hundreds of coti
Sinlth once a forger and worst, but I veyancea were used to carry voters to
now u mission worker and the rest of i the polls. Women holding banners bear
the men who, Johnny realised, would lug pictures of small children on which
take the floor, that ho would be grateful were printed the words "Please protect
to them If they would only praise God us by voting no llcetute" were sta
for what He, had done for Johnny and Honed In the vicinity of most of the
not dwell upon what Johnny has been polling booths. Motor trucks and brew
doing for the other (Johnny Callahans of cry wagons carrying printed appeals to
the? world.
Kx-DniTn and Ooter Tells Story.
ii on whn i. ...i tr.A ,i -1
..o.- i,,. i i.,,. i.. r..i -i.v,,i
by a 'friend In Iaiulsvllle nnd then had several addresses on the liquor Issue and American civil war, namely, that tho
rhcated his benefactor, nnd finally v. as ' llrlc' tho voters who attended his meet- conflict will go on until tho high oh
u drunkard nnd n thief on the Bowery l vote "no." The Massachusetts " jcct of thu Entchto Allies Is attained.
i. ... . . -.., ..i - ...... t Antl. Saloon Lenrue sent out thousands n.. . . ... . . . .. .. ,
uiuil no inn Jinilinv v minium uiw
twelve years ago-when this man got
aout JohimyVi'nahan!nC Hegavo1 the I
circumstances, for Instance, of un at
tempt at blackmail made against him
since his reform.
"My wife and I." said the hpcaker.
who had frankly told the assemblage of
clergymen and Bowery down and outs
about his own early misdeeds, "knew the
charge was unjust but we didn't know
how we could fight It as we lacked the
means to do so. Johnny Callahan heard
about our troubles mid he came to me
and said: 'You'ro In the right. 1M, so
tight It out. We can get a lawyer be
cause I have a little home or my own
up In Hnrtsdale and we can raise the
money by mortgaging It.'"
Prelate Praises Real Christian.
And when Bishop itson arise to
speak the Bishop did Tespcct Johnny's
lshes to the extent of tniintiliig 1K ,
exordial remarks to words of prnlMi and
thankfulness to God Tor Ills mercies to
thn sinner. But then temptation canio
to the lllcliop nhd hn fell In- couldn't
resist tho Impulse to say that" when
Johnny Callaluin .twenty-fix years ago
last night begun life anew there came
Into being about the finest Christian
gentleman Bishop Wnon ever had met.
And the Bowery said a fervent "Amn !"
"And what the samo Saviour lld for
John." tho Bishop concluded after a
ulogy of Johnny and an appreciation of
the great part Johnnys wire, who sat
n tho backsround behind the Christinas
decorations, had Jiad In tho Bowery mis-
for me. boys. But." Bishop Wilson
added with simple humility, "I don't
know that jou nnd I ran do what John
has done. All of us. however, can try
to keep thinking of tho other fellow as
John Is always doing."
Mrs, Callahan lllsolirya Spoone.
Johnny's wlfo absolutely disobeyed
the mandates of her spouso when sho
arose to speak. Mrs. Callahan began
with brief remarks about tho tlmo the
faith came to her years ago when she
was a student at Oberlln C'olleje. The
next moment sho was well Into the sub
ject of Johnny Callahan as a husband
and father, mission worker nnd man.
An Intellectual looking man stood up
nnd told of his wild days as a student In
nn Austrian university, of his descent to
tho depths nt homo and of his later days
and nights ot drunkenness and crime on
tho Bowery. Then ho told of a night
almost 'nlno years ago January S, 190S
when he, "a Bowery hum," had crept
Into Johnny's mission to get out of tho
cold. Johnny Callahan, he said, picked
him up spiritually as well ns In n real
physical sense, whereforo to-day tho
man Is A teacner in one or tne city s
leading educational Institutions.
Converted Gangster Spenks.
And there was Charley, who remem
bered the night Jnnunry 17, 1905 he
met Johnny nnd thereafter put behind
him the Ufa hn had begun ns a drunken
gangster In Hilly McGlory's. Charllo
now works every day, dresses as well
as any other niechaiilo with a steady Job,
never has slipped buck und "never will."
Por the rest of mo life," concluded
Charley In fervent words that still
smack of Chlmmle Fadden's lingo, "I'm
offa tho booze and thn rest of them
things those things, 1 mean."
At dusk there wero sandwiches nnd
coffee and the rest of tho lllllng things
that Johnny nnd Mrs. Cillahnu somehow
manage to scrape together for their
charges. In ono corner sat a big.
swarthy man munching his sandwiches.
Last Saturday night he drifted Into
Johnny's rooms fresh from serving a ten
year sentence In Dnnnemora, Ho was
wearing a pretty good overcoat yester
day It was Johnny Callahan's overcoat
until last Snturd:iy night, so Hd Smith
conllded In whispers and as the cx-
ronvlct. who comes to Johnny's nightly
meetings regularly now, drank his coffee
and finished his sandwich ho sat motion
less for a long tlmo gazing Into space us
If ho were thinking deeply.
One of the Mo.t Momentous Documents
Kver I'ublUhrd.
Never beforo wa the word of ons mn
a Uniely awaited by a wholo world, a
world war torn snd eager to learn whether
that word portended early peace or contin
ued conflict, netween lentencen, as they
drifted disconnectedly along ths cahles,
markets for securities and commodities rosn
and fell by leaps and bounds.
You cin read tlio full verbatim text of the
HI'RKCIl OK
DAVID I.I.OYD OEOP.OI
Only In TUB NRW YOItK TIMES tn.day.
ApprteUtliK ths Importsnre of this
spteth. THE NEW YOItK TIM EM ha. I n
bad a
d l"t
compjete stenographic report cabled
nignu v,
BOSTON VOTES
TO STAY 'WET'
Liquor Forces Have Major
ity of 211,462 as Against
14,238 Last Year.
WOMEN AT THE TOLLS
"Billy" Sunday Active Among
the Workers Who Wanted
Saloon Voted Out.
Boston, Dec. 19. Boston to-day voted
to continue tho licensed sale of liquor
after the liveliest campaign on the
liquor question tint the city has had In
years. Tho vote In favor of license wis
03,59, with 29,997 against. Last year
tho vote for license was 46,116, and 31,
877 against.
The total vote was the largest ever
cast here on tho license question, and
tne majority of :3,4s: for license has
vote "yes" were sent through the city
by tho license forces.
Hilly" Sunday, who Is conducting an
evangelistic i-.impnlgu here, took
prominent part In the fight. He delivered
. , ." , , ., I
'u'' Kent 11 tono ot oralora
No Ucemworkers were nt n loss to
rxiuaiu ine necreaso in inn no voir'
from lust year's figures. Suburban nnd I
rcMdcntliil districts which they had
counted upon to poll heavy majorities 1
for no ncciiso returned majorities for
license, many of them of h substantial
nature. Liquor Interests asserted that
many voters in them districts who ordi
narily voted "no" lit order to keep sa
loons out of their particular wards
changed their votes to "yes" this year
because of the fear that tho fntlre city
would go "dry" and that tho revenue
derived from liquor licenses would be
lost.
No license advocates gained two.new
victories in the four municipalities out
side of Boston. North Adams changed
from tho wet to the dry column for the
first tlnio In tnenty-ulnn years, nnd
l.'lt hlui re- turned liift vcitr'n license mu
Jorlty of 72 Into u no license margin of
Nt, Pe.ibody mid Qulncy remained In
the dry column. Tho dry forces havo
added six cities in this year's elections.
GUILTY; FINED BY WIRE.
Nrnr York Motorist Makes Jersey
Court "Appearance'' by Phonr.
Recorder William II. Toung of Pater
son, called to the telephono yesterday,
heard this:
"This l Samuel Carter of New York,
summoned to rourt for passing a stand-
Inc trolley car In my automobile. Tratllc
"voldalilc. III It bo all right If I pay
I a line'.'
I "Certainly, I'll fine you IS. Send It
un."
Carter was arrested yesteraay, nut
paroled by Deputy Chief Gall for ap
jiearance to-day. His check Is awaited.
XMAS TREE KING ADDS
TO HIGH COST OF GIVING
rrices Soar Skyward on the
Old. Familiar Excuse, "It's
Owinsr to tho War'
The Christmas Tree King Is doing
what ho can to ndd to the high cost of
giving by Jacking up thn price of Christ
mas trees until the price Is nlmost ns
high os the trees themselves. Like
Little Jack Horner, he has a corner of
hU own, but the Donnelly net, which
prohibits unlawful conspiracies In re
straint of trade, can't catch him, be
cause every lawyer knows that even a
King can't consplro all alone by him
self. Joseph Hartlgan, Commissioner of
iWclghts nnd Measures, first heard of the
Christmas rrco iting six years ago. no
ran across his trail again yesterday via
tho report of one of his department In
spectors, Mrs. Kathcrlne Hoenlelu.
"I wns up tn Washington nvenue to
day," Mrs. Hoenleln reported, "and
heard a woman say to a grocer, 'Say,
mister, how much Is this Christmas
tree?' It was a nirn looking spruce
about R feet high. 'Five dollars,' said
the grocer.' '.My'.' gasped the lady, 'I
don't want a forest, I want a tree."
'They come high this year,' explained
tho grocer. 'It's on account of the war.'
And then tho lady walked off snlfllng,
and so did I."
In the wholesale Christmas greens
market yesterday single trcea S to 12
feet were nuoted at from $1.00 to S2.S0.
This wns the kind of tree for which the
Washington nvenue grocer nsltcd $D.
Trees from 15 to 20 feet were from 15
to $15. Smnll trees, two to six to a
bundle, were quoted nt "5 cents to $1 a
bundle wholesale. Some of these trccB
nro now retailing at from 75 cents to $1
apiece nnd higher.
CAPT. K0ENIG IS EXONERATED.
Sinking of Ton by IT-Doat Fonnd
to Have Hern Unavoidable,
New Lonpon, Conn., Doc. 19. Cnpt.
Paul Kocnlg of the undersea freighter
Dotltschlund was held to-day by the Fed
eral steamboat Inspectors to bo guiltless
of any blanio for the collision on Novem
ber 17 between his vessel and the tug
T. A. Scott, Jr.. which caused the loss oi
tno tug and Its crew.
Thf report says: "We are satisfied
that the Deutsrhland wns being navi
gated In a careful and competent man
ner by Cnpt. Paul rVnlg: that he Cld,
all In his power to avert thn collision,
nnd that he made all due efforts to effect
the rescue of the crew of the T. A. Hcott.
Jr all
at their
I the tuc
Jr., all of whom wero evidently trapped
poets nf duty, so quickly did the
sink."
GERMANS MUST MAKE REPARATION
AND RESTITUTION TO GET PEACE,
LLOYD GEORGE SA YS IN COMMONS
Premier Asserts the War's
High Object Must lie
Attained.
FOLLOWS LINCOLN'S
ANSWER TO SOUTH
Should Be No Mistake
Matter of Life or
Death. v
TO QUIT NOW WOULD
BE jVCT OF POLTItOON
Prime Minister Outlines
Plans to Give Britain
the Victory.
London. Dec. II. Premier Lloyd
George In his speech before the House
of Commons this afternoon treated the
(lorman peace note In the samo man
ner ns Abraham Lincoln did tho
Koiith'a milt for peace during the
HUM lllgn ODJCCl 1110 iTcnucr con-
densed In the following sentence: "Lot
.,-lJ
ivimiuuuu uim invwumi uaiuiiiwii.
....
Lloyd (.rorgr'a Addrrss.
The Prime Minister said :
"I uppear before tho House of Com-,
mons to-day with the most terrible ie.
sponslblllty that cm fall upon tho
shoulders of any living man as chief ad-
vUcr of t ie crown In tho moM gigantic
war in which this country was ever en
gaged, n war upon thn events of which
Its dextlny dcHmls. It Is thn greatest
war ever waged : the burdens aro the
heaviest that havo been cast upon this
or any othv country and the Issues the
gravest that havo been attached to nny
conflict In which humanity was ever In
volved. "The responsibilities of thn new t!o'
ernment havo been suddenly accentuated
by tho declaration made by the Cermaii
Chancellor. The Matciucnt
.,.',,1.. ...
maun n
him In tho Tleithstat; li.ix lnen follow i-il
i .. . ....... i ,. ,i , e .
by a noy. presented by the I n ted Mates
without note or comment. Tho answer
given by this Government wlllc given
In full accord with all our allies.
aiurany inero nas neen an liner-
change of lew, not iinu the note, be
calico It has only lecenlly arrived, but
upon tho speech which Impelled It, nnd
its the nolo Itself Is practically only a
reproduction or :i paraphrase of the
speech, the subject matter of the nolo
Itself has been discussed Informally be
tween the Allies. I am glad to bo able
to state that wo each separately and In
dependently arrived nt Identical conclu
sions. Right to the first Answer.
"I am very glad that the tlrst answer
given to tho statement of thn German
Chancellor wns glvui by Franco and I mler's announcement that peace without
Russia. They havo the unquestionable reparation was impossible. Is Inter
right to give the first answer to such an nreted bv thn Aitih.isMtdor to moan that
invitation. Tlio enemy Is still on their
sou nnu tneir sacrifices navo ncen ine
greater. '
"The answer they havo given has al
ready appeared In thn papers, and I sim
ply stand hern to give clear and definite
support to the statement they hao al
ready made
"Any man or set of men who, with or
wlthout sufficient cause, want prolonged
n terrible conflict like this would hao
on his soul a crime that oceans could
not cleanse.
"On the other hand It Is equally true
that any man or set of men who from a
senso of weariness or despair abandoned
the struggle without aciileving tno nign
purposes for which wo entered It would
DO guilty or inn cosiuesi aci oi jiouroon-
cry ever perpetrated by any statesman.
1 should like to quote tho words of Abra
ham Lincoln under similar conditions:
" 'We accepted this war for an object
and a world object, and the war will end
whoti'the object Is attained under God.
I hope it will never end until that time.'
"Aro we likely to achieve tho object
by accepting tho Invitation of tho Ger
man Chancellor? What aro tlio pro
posals? Thcro are none. I
lend Wonld Be In a Noose,
' "To enter, on the Invitation of Ger
many, proclaiming herself victorious,
without any knowledge of what propo
sals sho proposes to make, Into a con
ference In to put our heads Into a nooso
with the rope end In the hands of Ger
mnny. "This country Is not nltogether with
out experience In these matters. This Is
not tho first tlnm wo have fought a great
military despotism overshadowing itu-
rope, and It won't bo the tlrst tlmo wo
havo helped to overthrow a military
despotlHin.
"We have an uncomfortablo historical
memory of theso things nnd can recall
ono of the greatest of theso despots,
whoso fnvorlto device was to appear In
tho garb of on nngel of peace, cither
when he wished time to assimilate his
conquests or to reorganize his forces for
tresn conquests, or, secouuiy. wnen ins
subjects showed symptoms of fatigue and
war weariness an nppcal was always
inade In the name of humanity. Jle de
manded an end tn tho bloodshed nt
which he professed himself horrified, al
though he himself wns mainly responsi
ble. "Our ancestors wero taken tn once,
and bitterly they and Kurope rue It,
The time was devoted to reorganizing
his forces for a deadlier attack than ever
upon the liberties of Kurope.
Reminiscent Disquietude.
"Examples of this kind' cause us tn
regard thla note with a considerable
measure nf reminiscent disquietude.
"We feel that we ought to know, he
fore we can give favorable consideration
to such an Invltnllon, that Oermany Is
prepared lo arrcde to Iho only terms on
Conllriwrd oifWcvond Vagi,
Curzon Warns of German Menace
J.ONDON, Dec. 19. In presenting-.the policy of the Government in
the House of Lords Earl Curzon, who is a member of the new War
Council, said: ,
"Tho policy of the new Government is that the war must bo con
ducted with the utmost prosecution; that there must bo an ample return
for all sacrifices; that full reparation must bo made by tho enemy for
his countless crimes, and security given that thoso crimes will not bo
repeated and that the sacrifices made shall not havo been in vajn.
"The Government's aim is that the peaco of Europe shall bo re
established on tho basis of the free and independent existence of na
tions great and small, and that as regards this country, it shall be free
from tho menace which the triumph of Germany and the German spirit
would entail.
"Evidence is forthcoming daily of the desperate straits of Ger
many at home and in the field. The position of the Central Powers is
not so good as they would havo the world believe. Our attitude should
not be one of despondency or alarm,"
PREMIER LIFTS
WILSON'S HOPE
Bernstorff Also Interprets
Lloyd George's Speech ns
Encouraging'.
Washington, Dec. 19. Premier Lloyd
George's speech In the llouso of Com
mons Is not regarded hero as entirely
destroying tho prospect of peace nego- j Senate to-day nuido tho opposition to
tlnllons at a coniparatvlely early dale.:""" "I'l'ear ns ill timed, carping crlll
It Is not looked upon as n flat rejection j v'"". bt" unjust und luclTectlvc. Georges
of tho German proposal. t'"nenceaii who distils two columns of
... .. ,. . , ..,, gall against Jl. Brland dally n LVomwio
If nythliiB. It has raised the hopes t:ttehalnei ns!mrncil n 0()1 Ilt)(1 kcpl
of l'resldent wili-on aliu omciais ot mis
Oo eminent that n new chapter In the.
wnr one In which the belligerents seek
at leant u basis of understanding has
been liesuu.
"moi.u vasinngioii prscm-any
"""I1"!?,"?' !",weVer: ,"p ",,n " h"'
""" J"'"""' ' 'C v l
" ' ' ' , ,.,,,, ', wolli,i
,,lU m,B,lt embarrass such
nitloii later. It was stated authorita
tively to-night that for tho present tho
I'nlted States would net only as an In
termediary, transmitting coihmunlcatloiw
between tho belligerents.
The German Embassy Interprets the
British Premier's speech as opening
the door to a further discussion, al
though tho German diplomats, Inti
mately familiar with tho nlnis and view
of tho Central Powers, mako no attempt
tn .'ntirpitl their iitieert.ilnt rcirardlui:
ani... ..... ... ..... .1 ..I
HIC UUUUIllO Ul MIl-'ll IH'KUllitllUIIP. i lit'
. . , ...... i. .,,., -..i..i..
ll'l'l, IIUWL'M'l, lllilt II IIM. IIIM11 I.-J'IJ.II,,
tn tlm German communication follows
tn tlm licruiaii communication unlaws
, t,1Iir ot ,e i.r,.mlcrs ..pecc-h tho
,,,.. fP, ,ho 'ivi.tnnin vlmvi.,.l..t.
llJB ,lull(, alt rM,eri,.d of It and baa
.brought the Idea of a peace confcieiice
one Mcp neaier realization.
It iipiH-ars from the British Premier's
speech," said Count llernstorfT, tho Gcr-
iiiiiu Aimiii'.pitiiur. in .in i.iuiiiiri.cii pi.ii-
ineiit, "that tho answer of Great Britain 1
will not cud the matter. To mo It looks .
is If therf will Ih- at least one more ex
chaugo of notes, which will, talk of the
future and not of tho past."
Tho Ambassador bases his statements
on this Important utterance by Lloyd
George: "Wo will wait until we hear
what terms and guarantees there arc
turcr than those which Germany broke."
What IlrriistorfT Inspects.
This, together with the British Pie-
the Kutente's leply to the formal note
win in eirect ie n noto asking ior tne
terillH .mil KU.il uiiit-'i's ui int.' .I'nii.iii
Powets.
'0"'e'9- .ml
nn i..i'iiii.iii vi.xviiin -.'in ..,
view that the first essential move In i the
merest nf peace Is a conference. I ub-
lie discussion of terms Is regarded as
Impossible. But Germany will not al-
low tho Kntcntc's request or demand
for terms to choke oh tho Initial efforts
for negotiations.
Tho imperial Government will en-
deavor to outline, In n broad, general
way. tho terms upon which negotiations
might start. As for guarantees or rep-
niatlon or disarmament nnq Kinureu
subjects, about which public opinion in
an me capiinis ui i.iiru-io inn ueen um-
fated, the German Government, ll is ue-. mirauco for thn future,"
dared, will express a readiness to con- jt, urand In leplylng deprecated re
tlder them one and all. I pioaclies against the Government at this
So far as guarantees for tho future I Kravo period, "because the men In power
peaco of Europe uro concerned It Is said must bo ablo to work with tho neces
that the German Government desires nary freedom of mind, have unlnter-
only to know precisely what specific
cuaranteo tho Kuteuto wlsheti to see con-
BU111I1141I. u.
Dlsj-rmnmriit Question
If tho Jhitento regnrds disarmament
ns nn essential to tho guarantee tho Im
perial Government, It Is asserted, will
cxprehH Immediate willingness to como
to an understanding on this score. Ger
many will Indorse It If the Kntento will
do so, It is added, and the means of
limiting It effective practically on well ns
thcoretlcully will hn willingly taken up
by the Imperial Government.
Tho question of reparation which
Lloyd Georvio makes ns a requisite for
peaco negotiations is likewise not rc-
garded as a stumbling block. Germany
is willing to mako rcimrallon for dam-
ago dono to llclnlum, northern France or
elsewhere, It Is declared. But If tills
point H Insisted upon by .the Kntento the
imperial Government regards It no only
jiit that reciprocal reparation be made
t,y the Kntento for daniagn dono In east
Prussia, In tlio Geiman colonics and on
(he high seas.
..t we ony utopped fchtlng for n
week or two wo would havo money to
..... u .i,eK bllln." It Is exnlalnwl In
German o!luin circles.
One ot the Most Momentous Documents
Kter Published.
Neer beforo was the word of one man
so tonsely awaited liy a whole world, a
world war torn and eager to learn whether
that word portended early peare or contin
ued conflict. Iletween sentences, as they
drifted disconnectedly along 111" cables,
markets fur securities and commodities rose
and fell liy leaps and bounds.
You can read the full verbatim test of the
HI'KBCII OK
DAVID i.i.ovd ononr.E
n-lv In T1II5 NKIV YllltK TI.MK.S tn.ilni
Appreciating- the Impurtunee ot this
speech, THE NEW YOItK TIMES had a
compute stetmiiraplilc rsport cabled last
night. Aiv,
ALLIES' REPLY
TO GO TO-DAY
Brian d Snys Concerted Answer
"Will Kejcct Peace Proffer
by Germany.
Special Calif. Veiptitch to Tns Sex,
Pahis, Bcc. 19. Premier Brland In a
magnificent half hour's speech In tho
,un eyes unywhero except on tho speaker.
ine Premier nlxo announced that to
morrow the Knlento ullles would send
a concerted reply to the Central Powers
stating that It wan Impossible to tako
the peace proffer seriously.
eventually, -apparently not anxious to
meet tho Premier In open debate, M.
Clenienceau moved that the Scnato go
Into secret fcesMon to discuss nil Inter
pellation by hlint-clf and other members
of tho Senate's army committee, ot
which he Is president.
Tho muxt dramatlo moment of the
sitting caino when Senator Tournon,
whose constituency Is In tho invaded dis
trict, asked M. Brland about Germany's
peaco proposal. Ho said he recently had
seen a, rcfugeo from his constituency,
who begged him to tell the Senate that
the people there, wero not thinking about
leacc.
Thn Senators showed nbsoluto sym
pathy with thn Premier's reply, in whirh
he uprated the words he had sjHikcn In
the Chamber last Wednesday, calling
Germany ' move ".i clumsy manreuver."
They cheered jilso tlm statement that
"tho Allies' conceited' reply to-morrow
will I, made In tho clearest, most cate
gorical manner, showing that it is Im
possible to tako tho proposition seri
ously." "Tlio Central Empires are nt bay
Their request for peace Is last bluff
that Germany wishes to try. She would
like a!no to exonerate herself by making
believe that thn war was Imposed upon
her, but thn war had been decided upon
by her forty jears ago. It wns In tho
blood nf the Germans, who felt certain
they would conquer."
M. Brland recalled Dr. von Ilethmann
Hollweg's speech In which he ald Ger
many was compelled to violate thn neu
trality of Luxemlairg and Belgium, ntvl !
ndled: x j To enter u ronferenco at thn Invitation
"Germany will bear before the ages of a Germany proclaiming herself Icto
tbe ref'ionslbillty of having unchained rlous, without any knowledge of Iho pro-
tills war."
Henry Ilerenger, Senator for Guade-
joujif. accused the Cabinet of weakness
1 nnd dll.ltnrlnesM Tlm tier MlnlHtrv. Tin
,'al1'' lai brought about only a change In
personnel. This was shown In tho way
, wnch the war wns being directed the
Krfnch i,. i)e.M1 Ulml Ul ,rVo the Gcr-
mans beyond tho frontier.
Tho speaker then reproached tho Min
istry with defects In tne organization of
tho econorulc life of the country and
charged that there had been a lack of
organization In 'the production of war
material. He then attacked French di
plomacy, to which ho Imputed as a result
J recent events In Athens,
"Pf, nnt think that your past war
I record," said M. Ilerenger, addressing
I'reinlor llrland, "gives us sufficient ns-
ruptrd confidence nt home nnd for their
i ncllnus abroad and our allies must not
. i'i nili'nru iv. iiinin mill uui im ti niiirui
Is under suspicion nnd tho menace of In
letpellntlon."
"I am ready." M, Brland continued,
"to mako wuy at any time for him who
may be Judged more worthy thnii I
But I ask you. with the system employed
up to this time, what Government could
resist? As for ine, I have gono morn
than forty-four times before tlm com
mittees (each committee composed of
furl v.fniii tiii.ni Vinru . mill Infplv ii'n
talnetl ten entire davs in secret sessions
i of tho Chamber.
"I nsk you. under these conditions.
how n President of the Cabinet can be
a 'war President,' a President of oner-
getlo nctlnn" When you know the facts
of tho terrible task to which I am bound
then you will Judge me and condemn me
If you think tit.
if wo have not broken through,
neither have the Germans broken
through lifter forty yeart of prepara -
tlon, even though It might have been
thought they would tlluuiph after hav
ing Nlolated Belgium, Foitiiualolv
French soldiers, nearly alone, at tlul
time, blocked the way and said 'Nn
thoroughfare!' Tho .Oovernnient from
the beginning did Its duty In pel mitt. ng
our allies to organize,"
RUSSIA REFUSES PEACE FLEA,
Council of Umpire Will Not Kntrr
Into Xrgotlatlnus at This Time,
LoNpo.M. Dec. 19, The Council of the
Russian Kmplre tn-dny adopted an older
ot tho day Identical with that uxcil
by thn Diimi nvonll, dciiailu,' llm
Council iiiiaiiiiiious'.y In f.nur of lefiisiiig
to eiitir under pre- nt conditions Into
nny p--ie.. iici;iii,,ii . w tli ileiiimni
Kis il ih'spAl.h to Haulers Telegram
I Compaii) 'lOal I VI v. 'mad
inMi'AJtnirivr iaiii run u.vv
only .'oi liuuiM t la Atlantic luim l.tiie,
3 Trillin dully. Ulll'.e, im U'way f-.idi;
Prime Minister Warns Na
tion Not to Expect
Speedy Triumph.
BUT WILL NOT PUT
HIS HEAD IN NOOSE
Calls for Stronger Control
Over Shipping and Min
ing Industry.
PLEA FOR UNIVERSAL
NATIONAL SERVICE
Government Will Try to.
Produce Better Atmos- ,
phere in Ireland.
Special Cablt Detpatch to Tns Scs.
Lonpo.v, Dec. 20 (Wednesday).-,
Great Britain Is determined to consider
no suggestion for peaco which docs not
Includo n guarantee of complete repa
ration for tho imst niiil quarnntce.i for
future security. Premier Llnyil CIcore
niado this declaration In tlio courso
of his eagerly nwnlleil speech In the
Hoiifo of Commons ycMcrday.
Tho history of Great Hrllnln afford
no parallel to tho occiislon when thn
Premier rose to deliver th; address for
which tho wholo world w.im llstenlnic
with almost breatlilesw Impatience,
Upon tlio speaker devolved n twofold
tnsk.
Simultaneous with tho voicing of his
Ilrst statement as head if the new
aovcrnment, which wJh foimed with
tlio avowed purpow; of prosecuting
the war moro vigorously than the
Ministry which hid ruled Britain's
destinies since the outbreak of hos
tilities had (lone, ho nun culled upon
tr reply to the olTer of peaco presented
by tho Germ J n Government.
Premier' TIIiikIiik Nfntrmrnt.
A tremendous chc-cr ciwted the
Premier's etnti'tiicui Hint "tlm into
who nt the im'M'iit ni,isn would aban
don tho Htrngulo without achieving tho
purpose for which Great Britain eii-
tercd It would be guilty of the costllcit
act of poltroonery over perpetrated by
any ttiitesman."
Tho tenso feeling which preceded
this declaration was relieved instantly
by tho Premier's words. The cheer,
which canio from all pints, of tha
House, was long.
The Tlmrs's Parliamentary corre
spondent sa:
".Mr. Lloyd George ill expounding the
policy of tlm new Government made the
following points
GF. KM A.N I'KACi: I'IMM'OSAI.H.
iposais snc will make. Is to put our head
I into a nooso with the ropo end In the
nanos or ttonuany Tlm only terms on
which peace Is possible arc complete res
titution, full reparation and effectual
guarantees against a repetition. Mean
while wo put our fallh In our unbroken
army rather than In a broken faith,
"rONITKiX l.V Tin: WAIL If there
Is any one who ban given his rmifldenca
In tho new administration In expectation
or a speeuiy victory he Is clooineil tn ills-
j appointment. Wo ur doing our best to
mako Impossible a repetltlim of the Itu.
manlan disaster. Within tho last few day
we havo taken strong action In Greece.
and I think It has succeeded, We hav
decided tn recos'nlzo tlm ixents of the
l great Greek statewmnn, Vonlzelos,
"THU XKW (1IIVKHN Mil. NT. -Theie
nro three character siir In which the
new Government has departed from prec
edent: Tho concentration of executive
power In n very few hands; the choice
of men of iiilmlulsti'ntlvo and hinducst
neri-e
,,(.,(
capacity, l.illier mail pai llaineniary ex-
nee, when wn have been unable to
In both for the headship of great de
partments, and flanker and fuller recog
tlon of labor.
Cunt rot Ihrr Mining.,
"SHII'IMNG AMI M I M'.X, -T'.ic Gov
ernment feelH thai tlm tlnm has eoine
to take more iiinipleto .outrol of all
ships nnd placo Ihvm In practically the
same position as the i.ilhvays The
Government feels tli.it Ii ought to rs-
sunm a more iiuvi t control over to
! whole mining Indu-dre
' "I'onit. This problem Is serlnn
mut a'l on the people to iniLo renl
, snciitlccs In Its rnnMimi.Uon. The ,f.
fluent must not b. allowed io e,eafe a
1 shortage for tho o. w. ll In do. Iliery
. .nallablo square ard must oo in u.i t
produce food Lei Pm i.athm place o t
forts, luxuries, linliilKi nei"- aim i o-
Ranees m tlm i , t imi.il ull.it 1,-t in
proclaim during the war a national Lent,
j "I'lHUTI r.l'IIIX.. Tee Government
I has i nnu' to tli t,i luslosi that we eaii-
not asl; llm nation for more saeiilli"-!
without t lUu.g in ue drastic i.tcps to p
rest un'nti' prn'Vn" Hi out of llm war,
i'i r.its vi. n i nt ti, xi:hvum:.
It Is l ecissa t, ai we mako a-KWi't
and cfiVcmo ar.wv to licnuaiij, s Uitut
move. TV Va"i ablimt has decided ihtit
tint tinm has coinn fur lite .idopno.i of tl
piinclplo of unive aal national icrvh .
Neville Ch.iinliei lair, laird Mayor it
lllriiilngli mi, lu.s been appointed D.rot
tor-Gennrat of r'l national set vice, "i
charge of both f- military uinl c I
sides. Free, iioii.csscntl.il Industries wl'l
ha Invited to enroll In tlm war wmk, If
It l found Impossible to get the num
bers we require wo shall not hesltatu
1 In ask Parliament to give ui tho necr.
I s.iry powers for rendering the plans r'
I f.vllxc.
r.rr Seat Filled
"lltl.l. t Mi colleague, 1 will sirhe
tu iiud ire a be'tir atmosphere.
"Tin: IllHIIMitXS We propose nt
nil euil date to summon an Imperial cons
M LsMtfMal
't..,..:: . i .
a:,.';j,i
