FINANCIAL EDITION
Mu.
STRAv
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. .TIL NO. 81
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916
CsrtiMttr. 1910, at tm rcsite I.imii Ceur.st.
PRICE ONE CENT
Jl rC "tkyA''A vT -A
iLiuruiuu mm
' i . -i - "
GERMANY SEES
BLUFF IN PEACE
STAND OF FOES
K Allies Really Anxious to
End War, Teutons
Assert
ACTION BY NEUTRALS
EAGERLY LOOKED FOR
Door Still Open for Diplo
matic Parley, Is Opinion
in Britain
MAY DEBATE SECRETLY
Central Empires Willing to Com
promise, Embnssy Officials
Here Aver
By CAM, W. ACKERMAN
ni:iii.t.v, Dec. io.
Germany regards tho speeches of states
men tn England, Franco nml Itussln as a
bluff lo Impress Ilcrlln with thu Kntcnte's
determination. Tho Kntenlo Governments
cannot do othcrwlnc. In view of their past
italment. although they arc renlly anxious
now for peace.
This was tho view reflected In all walks
of life today following Premier Uoyd
George's answer to tho Imperial Herman
Chancellor In his speech of yesterday.
Berlin Is not pessimistic, desplto this I.on
don statement, ndded to the previous pro.
nunclamentos from Potrograd and I'nrls
that tho Allies nro determined to continue
' the war until their objects arc nttnlncd.
The general view was that these speeches
are not to be taken seriously when welshed
against Germany's progress In Itumanla.
Not only was this the public view, but
officials coincided. One such olllclal de
clared that no bclllcerent would ever
aiSc a neutral nation to begin negotia
tions nevertheless, steps by n neutral now
would not bo regarded as unfriendly to
the Central Powers, He ndded, however,
that the public stato of mind Is not such
now that American Interference would be
welcomed.
, "If Premier Lloyd George means lo post
' porta peace until the Allies conquer, the war
will be eternal unless tho German army suc
ceeds In terminating It at nn earlier date,"
declared Iokal Anzelger today, according
to Dtrlln dispatches here, "Tho phrase
Reparation' la completely valueless," tho
newspaper ndded. -" ,v" " - - ',
The Tageblatt observes: "Uoyd Ocorge'e,
.speech Is apparently composed nccording
to prescription 'On one hand and
on the other.' " T
"Uoyd Qeorge's assertion that whoever
wants only lo prolong tho war Is criminal
Implies a strong self-condemnation If i:n
gltnd rejects negotiations," the Vorwaerts
luerted.
ALLIES MUST FORGET
PAST, GERMANS SAY
WAHHINOTO.V. Dec. 30.
"Peace In Europe cannot he reached If
the Entente Is not willing to forget the past.
Oermany la now concerned with tho future.
She is ready to make pedce on equitable
terms and meet her rivals morelfhan half
way "
German diplomatic circles here today
made It plain that this Is the position
of their Government.
Incidentally, thero was a growing belief
here that, while the end of the war prob-
Centlnaed on !' Two, Colnnin Two
SKEFFINGTON'S WIDOW
ELUDES BRITISH OFFICIALS
Reaches New York and Vill Tell Amer
icans of Husband's Murder
NBIV TOIlIv. Dee. SO. Htmlln? Ilrltlah
authorities. Mrs, F. 8. Skefflngton. widow
f the Irish editor who was executed dur
"K the Dublin rebelllpn. gained passage
o a steamship and arrived here. She Is
topping at a. local hotel, fine refused to
reveal the nam nf ih vaI t.nt .if.i
xhe had engaged passage under an assumed
name and disguised herself before going
aboard.
"I was determined to come to the United
States nd tell the American people about
my husband', murder, for that is what It
, she said today. Mrs. Skefflngton an
nounced that she will go upon a lecture
lour.
Hobson to More to Illinois.
CHICAGO. no. SO .In nnlir In ,a nur
'What he considers Die center of lh most
Important prohibition fight In America, Cap
taut nichmbnd Pearson. Hobson, Spanish
War hero and a leading temperance advo
, Mte, will move to Evanston, III., It Is an-
Bouncea today. Captain Hobson has leased
Dome and Will hrlnir hla fnmllv hra from
Tuxedo Park, if. Y., after the first of the
r. v
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
, For Philadelphia and vicinity
jmsw tonight and Thilrsdaii; warmer
iZ lotytai uoom jj ucjrcu,
vmuiini; tauin to tai winus.
I.KNOTIl OF JJ.V
,f rUu.
'teuu .
TllS A-Hn I laart rlMtm.
; J a.m.
i if p.m. I Moon souths. i.tJ.-m.
DKLWVAUK BIVEU TTOH CIIAXGJM
tUKftTMrr STBKKT
&w.u 411 a-sa. I I-8 water.
.. wr 9 Si a. m. I JJUb w.Ur 10:U p ta.
tJl'CH,VTDKt; AT WACU UOUR
VI 1 111 Ml II SI 31 41 a
SAD DAYS FOR THE DELIVERY BOY
wmmmm&mi . libra.
flilgMl' s&
( r s jMlmm& few
lWKv ITVea. k Teatk sm e.. .1 w I
With his basket full of Ciinstmns goods, he is n conspicuous feature
of life in the central shopping district theso diiys.
MACKENSEN WINS
Russians Compelled to Sur
render More Positions
in the Dobrudja
SEKETH FRONT IN PERIL
I1KRLIN, Dec. 20.
On the cast bank of the fiolden
Baristritza USvcr (in the lower Car
pathians) the Russians have continued
their attacks-, but without result, Ihe
War Office stated today. In Rumania
Ihercjfl nothing neWi., ,.. -kwe'n
BERLIN, Dec. 20.
In Isolated sectors of the Somme.
Alsnu and Champagne fronts and cast
of the Meusc (Verdun front) there have
been only patrol activities and artil
lery fire of varying strength, the War
Office reported today In Its official com
munication. HKIU.IN. Dec. 20. Tho llusslans and
Kumanlans In northern Dobrudja have
nlundoped a new fortified line before von
Macltenseir forces, which are approaching
the lower Danube, according to a statement
Issued by German army headquarters:
"During the last two dajn "in local en
gagements," continued tho otTlclnl state
ment, "moro than 1000 llusslans and Ku
manlans were brought In as prisoners and
many vehicles, most of them laden with
provisions, were captured."
The continued Oerman advance In Itu
manla, aside from straightening tho Hue and
reducing the length of the front by several
hundred kilometers, has freed large num
bers of troops. The aermana are watching
with Interest the foreign situation as t
where Field Marshal von Illndenburg will
employ these forces whether against Italy.
Itussla or tho Entente forces on the Mace
donlan front, nut even they themselves are
Continued on Page Four, Column Threo
GIVES PARTY TO FRIENDS,
THEN TAKES OWN LIFE
Skilled Mechanic Buys Piano and
Entertains Neighbors Ill
Health Causes Suicide
There had been a tittle party at the home
of John Uradbury. at !t East Harold
street. The Uradburys had bought a new
piano and Invited friend's to enjoy the muslo
with them.
The young husband-he twenty-one
year old-had been rather prosperous and
enjoyed a ood Job In a dyehouse. The
scarcity of dyea had made his service as
a skilled mechanic valuable and he had
Just received an Increase In wage
The central attraction at the party wa.
Ilutb, the ten-months-old girl. While It r.
Lradbury played the piano her husband
ana several neighbor, were making toy.
far the baby. When the guests went home
W"n.f been " il tgr yoUl l'Mle-''
h. said. yw lv. me downstair, far a
wblU to Palt tin. doU." Jlr U.adbury
tlred apd about S o'9 W nHrpli'
The wm awaked by "I-
She detected the odor of ga. and went to
T tot Toor. wher. .he found Tver bus
band dwd. with a ga. tube, In hi. mauth,
Tn. ohlW. toy. Uy on the Coor bWe hU
'"Jputy coroner OreeobaUth wa. called to
liS'
ffllM S5 ftav - 4,.- swi w - J"- ,Jqr
SUBWAY MISHAP
HALTS THOUSANDS
"L" Stations Crowded in
Rush Hour by Waiting (
Patrons
MANY DELAYED IN TUBE
ThnuMimla of persons were lata for work
and thousand of slioppern were marOonrd
In thi' subway on the elevated lino curt
whnn tho tnilTle was tlwl up this morning
by lai'U nf pov.-er. At all tho stations on
tha Inbound Mile of the elevated passengers
were Jammed so closely together that hun-
drejIJifuV'ta- waJir.UiotaJrjyiCfeil
The bloru, which hislcawqr nearljtwo
hour, on thHetar end o7 tlie tube, from Clly
Hall to .Market street forry,rwna caused
by the dhpfacement of 100 freY.ot third
rnll nt City Hall. The rail on the oast
bound track was torn up lu Ibese sections
by nu Iron shoo on one of tho pnesenger
cur.. Tho damage waji caused about 8 30
o'clock.
I'AHSKN'OKItS UNI.OADKD
Congestion was gnsMeet at the Thirty
stcund and Market htrccts station.
There passengers from tho elevated lines
were unloaded by thousands and transferred
to the Market street surface Hues The
crowds wero so great that thero wns no
time to Issue transfers. Street nupcrln
tendents ut this point did tho best they
could to tako rare of all. Mut West I'lilla
dolphin patrons, on learning of tho tie-up.
used the surface lines from point, a. far
west ns Sixtieth street, and when the stir
fueo cars reached Thirty-second street inoirt
of them were ulready crowded Hundreds
of pae.icngera then fled to Chestnut street
only to find that these car. uer tonded.
A small army of passenger, walked In to
work from this point.
To mako matter, worse, the"llght. went
our while numerous trains were stalled In
the subwuy. All of the ear. were Jammed,
but nothing .erlous resulted, as incut of
the passengers seemed to take tha lie. up
Continued on I'sio Nine, Column Dim,
WIFE SENT TO ANSWER "
MAN'S LARCENY CHARGE
Pretty Woinun Turned Over to
Montgomery County Authori
ties After Hearing Here
i
Mr.. Sadie I'age. a comely woman, was
turned over to the Montgomery County
authorities today to .newer her husband'.
BBousatlon of breaking Into liar own house
and committing larceny. IIw husband Is
Jaaob Page, of Huntingdon Valley.
AseJtaat DUrtrlat Attorney Frank n
nlnger, of .N'orrlstuwn. whu was at th hear
ing, whksh wa bfr Jlaglntrute UeatoB,
said a, wlf WJ ut lie KUllty of either
elvarge whM the oomplalnant was the hus
band. DeJietiv Parrel arretted Mrm. page Mon
day nlgkt at III itouih Hlxtletlt alrMt.
WU4I4 sfcs wa. living. Tb. oret wa. mad.
en a, warrant .worn opt by ber hiMhand be
fore Jiwtle KektU at Uethayre.
Aoaordlsg to M UeUctlve, Mr. Page as
cus4 Mra. IB of breaking Inta tlurtr born
t Jtuftllagdon Valley and stealing a dla
Qajul ring and wun. other . aitJcUs (W0
week, ago, which wa. six week, after u
left him.
Mrs. Page said the diamond ring wa. her.
and -fn other article, were hr clothing.
She wa. very much annoyed at having to
leave Philadelphia and wanted to know now
long it would take t cWar liUnga up.
Vfc loW a day would do, sfce aia4
pur. wltofleA
Uka tAJ bsa Ufiar to obUJn baK,
5
$49,425,000 CITY
CHRISTMAS BILL
Flood of Gold Released
Where "Spug" Once Cast
Baleful Gloom
MONEY IS LEAST FACTOR
Wlmt Philadelphia Spends
for Christmas Gifts
Department stores . .
S27.230.000
hpeclnlty shops
llnbcrdnshcry and men's
furnishings
j Jewelry
Automobiles
. Rooks
2,500,000
2,000.000
.1,000,000
1.000,000
l,2."i0,000
1.000,000
noo.ooo
,-wO.OOO
noo.ooo
200,000
000,000
500.000
500,000
100,000
3.000,000
1,000.000
n.ooo.ooo
1.000,000
25.000
Cnndy
Flowers
Furs
Tobacco
Klcctricnl appliance
Mats
Gloves
Shoes
I.cnthcr goods
Christmnn food stu Its
Wines and liquors
Pinnos
Tnlking machines
Tots
Totals
, .$I'J,J25,000
Ily M'S.ISS
This Is n story sbatlt Money .Money with
n big M. Mors, money than the nxernge
dreamer nf pipe ilrenms ever sees.
It Is ntmott fifty million dollar., the
money that I'hllnilelphlau are spending to
demonstrate their happiness that there Is
pencn on this side of tho globe and their
feeling of rooJ will toward men.
When tho hut shop door Is closed on Snt
urd.iy night nr.d the tired ensh registers
arc put tn rest Philadelphia, according to
onreful calculations, will hae spent JI9.
1:5.000 Htntltlrlans put the figure nt that
but It Is not nt nil Improbable that somu
thing In excess of that sum will liavo b;en
spent. There Is no w.y of computing th
money gifts Hut the continued business
after Chrlstmsi always shows that money
gifts nre heavy.
Mammon Is running riot Wealth seemi
the lot of eery one. Jewelers report that
never before liav so many precious stones
been bought by the average person.
"A man who onte bought his wife n !&
present came In and ordered n 1300 lamp
the other day," one. Jeweler sa'ld. Quoting the
Incident ns typical of the high plane to
which spending had ascended,
OPUMJNCK AIIUOAD
If the prosperity of the nntlon Is to b
ganged by the prodigality with which It l
"opening up" for this Christmas, the country
reached a hlghwaler matjt tiol touched be-
tire-Chrtfro"as' perSjCTpJd
seems there -wilt bo dlrujfwSsBnM' gilt, for
all. Home poverty, they say, .till exists, but
just ns soon n. they begin talking about It
lu concrete Instances It disappears, because
some plutocratic stenographer or clerk who
tins hud her ealarj Increased twenty per
cent produce, a greenback and opulently ile
dares: ' "Huy them a turkey nnd dolls with that."
The high cost nf lllng has been knocked
Into n cocked hat by the high cost of spend
ing. The manager of a department store
said Daily:
"Without a doubt when the Christina, fig
ures are tabulated n fifty per cent Increase
ocr last year's business will be shown."
The Hpug, that shortlived being who
nprnng Into exlattncn from force of neces
s ly, the creature whose nume means that
he In or was a member of the Society far the
Pretention of I'selesa OUIng Is now almost
eitlnct. "Hive, give gle," Is the cry. "give
useful gifts nnd when you have exhausted
our Imagination on them, give useless
ones. II he angora cats and gUe uutoniD.
biles, give ship, unit shoe, and aejllng wax,
and pearls and lluulau sable. " Kvcry
body's doing It.
Pur dealers report that business lu pelt,
ha. never been mur yluiirlalitng
"And Ihe Joy of It all Is." one raid, "our
biggest business Is dune after Christmas.
Ceiitlnufil on I'.se Sfvrn, Cutuuiii Tho
WOMAN NOT GUILTY
OF MURDERING SUITOR
Mrs. Murcasa Said She Wns
Goaded Into Committing
Crime
sirs.
l.w.nhln,. MnrrMii . founuU
not Kuilty of the murder of Sebastino
Csprino this afternoon by a jury in the
Camden Court, The jury deliberated
but one hour.
Josephine AUressa went on trial today
for her life. Still. It wasn't so much her
life a. that of tier three.month-old baby
and three other small children, for f It
hadn't been for them, .lie said, she would
never 'have, .hat and kUled KelMStlno Ca
prlno. th. admitted tha killing; b admitted
tuvlmc run sway from Imt )iuband with
Caprine, but .be said, very slowly, that
sf. bad been forcd to do It.
Pack under lb. blue kl. of Italy, Jom
pkln and Caprino Iiad known ejeh other.
Tblr. wa. no rojoane. Just an acquaint
anfMhlp. But after she had com to this
ooinlry. he had followed and ruud hr Jn
PWladelphla llvldf hapjilly with Jujr hu
bad at T37 Leeds strt. Cprino same a. a
boardw, fc-rew lck and wa. nureed through
hW IllnftH through her close attention. He
mistook klndaaw for love and grew per
sistent In hi. affection
Through vision, or torture he Impressed
her on a trip to Trenton last summer. She
escaped and went back home On the day
before her baby wa born in September, be
appeared at ber mother'. hou at Fitter's
Point and asked that sJm rua away with
huw. Oa a arete c of gettioK oJotb., site
wM laKu the houw for a revolver, uUced
11 VMM iba ltb of 6m of Us c&Mrea
aiJ--s,
IT, S
QUICK
BETHLEHEM STEEL FALLS $72 A SHARE
NEW YOniC, Dec- 20. In the late trading on the Hew York
Stock Exchange totlay Bethlehem Steel sold nt 9300 n share, n dllm
of ?7a ns compared with the closo yesterday. The mnrltct wns weak.
SENATE FILIBUSTER BLOCKS CAPITAL "DRY" BILL
WASHINGTON, Dec. 20. A determined filibuster conducted by
"wet" Senators blocked tho way to vote on tho Shepunrd District of
Columbia prohibition bill In tho Senate, this afternoon rtnei threatened
to sidetrack the measure until after the holidays.
IOWA MAYOR SEIZES COAL TO RELIEVE FAMINE
LIES MOINES. In., Dec. 20. On tho gtound or public ncuaslty
li.t'ie face cf n co.tl famine, Mayor 3ohtt MacVicnr today so I Bert n cni
lund or cunl bvlotiglnir to the Illoomilcld Coal Company. Tho company
will bo paid tho market price. The coal will bo delivered by city
teams nt coat to homctt without fuel.
mj FONT'S BOOST SALARY BONUS TO .10 PER CENT
Wtt.MlNdTON, Del., Doc. 20. Tho dn I'ont I'owdor Company today announced
that tho twenty per cent wilury bonus which It has. bven pitying for tho last year
to salaric.l oiiiiliyo.i will bt Increased January t to thirty per cent. It wns recently
announced that tho twenty per wut bonus being paid lo payroll employes In tho
plants would v nindo n part of tho regular pov for 1917.
NBW YOltK, Dec. 20. .1. H. ititcho & Co. arc distributing bonuses to their em
ployes amounting to twenty per cent of their nniiuul salary. Compared with llflcen
per cent dlNtilbtitrd Juno I, It. M. (Irani : Co. tiro distributing Ion per cent on
yearly salaries lo nil einiloes In their New York, Huston nml Chicago olllcos.
MERGER OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA LINES APPROVED
HAIlltlSIII'ltfJ. Dec. 20. Tho merger of tho Pennsylvania lines west of Pitts
burgh under tho title nf thu Pittsburgh. Cincinnati, Chicago nnd HI. Louis Hallrond
Company w.is approved ut noon today by tho Public Service Commission. Tho
objections previously llU-d wero withdrawn.
LOCAL RESERVE BANK PAYS FIRST DIVIDEND
An lnltl.il dividend of six per cent has lieen declared by tho Federal Itoservo Hank
of Philadelphia, payalilo December 30. Tho dividend declared covors tho period from
November 2. 1914, to Juno SO, I9IS, as for tho llrst eight months of operation tho
stock Is entitled to cumulative, dividends up tn six per Lent per annum.
U-BOAT SINKS BRITISH SHIP FROM SOUTH AMERICA
LONDON, Doc. 20. -Ttn llrltlsb slonmshlp Fllmstou him beon sunk by n nul
marine, nj. a illspiitch received hero today. Hor enptnlu nnd first cnnlnccr wore
taken prisoners. Tho crew was rescued Tho vessel, of .1192 net tons, sailed from
lluenos Aires November IS for London.
P. R. R. SUBSIDIARIES PAY LARGER DIVIDENDS
Two subsidiary companies nf the Pennsylvania Itnllroad declared larger dividends
today. Tho. I'lttsburKh, Cincinnati, Chlnifio and HI. Louis Itnllroad declared a
dividend nf threo per cont on tho preferred stock nnd llvo per cunt on the common,
both puyablu January 15, 1917, to stork of record December 30, 1910. Hlx mouths
ago two per cent wns declared on tho proforred, Iho present dividend making llvo
per cent on this class of slock for the year. Tho Vandatla Itnllroad declared u
dividend of ,four per cont, psyablu January 15 to stock of record December 30. Two
cenj.ivnH.pniii.tiY Mjiggminiiiiy last February. , Jf UJcroinber, 1912, rrnd 1913, four
percent dividends wnrtKUd, but tn December. 19H, no dividend .wa? puld.
$210,000 APPROPRIATED TO PHILADELPHIA MINT
"WASHINGTON. Dec. 20. -FncliiB n rompleta shutdown of tlio Philadelphia
Mint on January 10 because the appropriation for Its operation bad been ojchnusted,
tho llousn today passed tho urgent deficiency appropriation bill, reported yesterday,
which gives nu appropriation of $210,000 to ho used during tho remainder of tho
fiscal year. It Is provided that $110,000 shall ho spent ns wanes to workmen und
1100.000 for contingent expenses.
BRITAIN TO RAISE RAILROAD FARES 50 PER CENT
LONDON. Dec. 20. lncrcii.it of nil railway faros In Great llrltaln fifty por
cent, beginning January I, was nuiiounced by tho Hoard nf Tindo In tho llouso
of Commons this afternoon.
SOUTH PHILADELPHIA HIGH MAY GET ATHLETIC FIELD
South Philadelphia High flay hnvo an nthlottc Meld next season. At tho pres
entation of tho Kills A. (Umbel trophy to tho Houth Philadelphia High oleven,
scholastic champions, this morning tho donor of tho cup, Kills A. Olmliol. enmo out
strongly In favor of an alhlotlu Held for tho winners, und mild ho would mipport
any movement In that direction. Congressman William 8. Vnro, who was lu ntlend-aui-e,
utpresseil his willingness tn nlil In building un athletic Held for Koutli Phila
delphia IIlRh.
PRICE OF RAILS ADVANCED $-1 A TON
PlTTHIllflldH, Dec. 20. Tho Carneclu HteerCompany today udvunced the prloo
of IlKht rails 4 u Inn to ISO a ton fur sections welRhlnK twunty-ftvo to forty-five
pounds. This Is an Increuso of $7 n ton In tho last thirty days. A premium Is
offered for spot delivery.-
BRUMBAUGH HAS NOT ASKED SMITH TO RESIGN
HAIlltlHIIURG. Dec. 20. Governor ilrumbaugh denied today that ho hud 10
iiuested tho resignation of Btato Hanking Commissioner Smith. Hinlth wa. closeted
with tho Governor at Iho Kxocullvo Department for somo lime. When ho left tho
Governor was asked If thu Commissioner had texlKned. "No, he has not," was Ills
reply. "Have you asked for his reslKnatiun?" tho Governor wns asked. "Certainly
not," ho answered.
ANOTHER CHILD STRICKEN BY INFANT PLAGUE
Another case of Infantile paralysis has tietm reported to health authorities.
Dorothy Hrewer. twenty-on mouths old, of 301 North Klghteenth street, . tho
- 'atest victim. Tli omni was lemovwt in
been quarantined.
$12,000,000 CITY BONDS OPEN TO PUBLIC JANUARY 8
Twelve million dollars m olty bond, v. Ill b offsrod to tbe public on January 8.
It wa. announced today, following a mettlr.fc of Mayor Kmlth. City Bollaltsr Connelly
nd ControJIer Walton. Tho money 1 m-odtid by tho olty to meet payments on
contract, for Parkway property., Another JlJ.JOO.OJw Issue will be sold In July,
ucoordlnjr to the present program.
TWO BATTLESHIPS HERE FOR OVERHAULING '
llluejackela on the IJ lilted Htatu. battlwhliw UkihlHH and ConnMtlout will spend
th.lr Christmas at I.eagu I.Uitul. Tins lw battleship nrrlved today from Hamp
ton Itoads, Va and will b thoroughly ovrlaull for target praettee later In tho
Wt Indie "
HALF OF STATE'S IMPORTED QUAIL FREEZE
HAHHISUUrta. Dec . State game oflk-tate r chagrined at Iwviivy been
compallad to ngb.t cold ualiier and snow Just after landing 0W0 Mtvctaan quail
In Pennsylvania. Tbr thousand of tbe little WriW already have iwaaumbed, and
Dr. Joseph Kulbfus, secretary of the Stale Game Cenunuudon. has small hop,
for the remaining half of the stUpmeiit.
STATE WILL GIVE AWAY 2,000,000 TREES
IIAHHIHHUHO, Dec. M- lejnylvaal will give away !.leM.0v young trees
this winter In aacerdAaee with lu ifau far refareetgtlon land, la thu state.
Of Ike tree. IM9.W9 are white pise awl
NEWS,
uio iuiioimi iiospttui Jtie house has
tke xeat bi' war na$, Vrh and j
TRANSIT LEASE '
DETAILS TO BE
KNOWN TODAY
. -- A it
Complete Plan Submitted tb
Conferees for Formal
Acceptance
FOR MERGER WITH CITY
P. R. T. Company Agrees ta
Squcozo All "Water"
Out of Stock
A complete draft of the proposed Agree.
tuent between tha clly and the Philadelphia,
Itaptd Transit Company for the equipment
and operation of tho entlro system of clty
bullt hhth'speed subway nnd elevated line
will be made public this afternoon follow
Inr n conference In the office of ajayor
Smith. v
Tho ngrectnent has been worked out
lars-oly by tho Philadelphia Ilnpld Transit
Company Itself, but representatives of the
city have been consulted from time lo time
In reRard to various points. The Agreement
or lease lit Its present form has already
been pubmlttcd to Mayor Smith and to
former Transit Director A, Merrltt TAylor,
nnd It Is understood to have tha tacit ap
proval of both.
' DirTAILH Oh- PUVN
Kvery precaution has been taken to Kiwtr
the details of the ni;reente.nt nnd up tn the
time of the meeting little was known Of
the tlonnlto terms which the transit, com
pany will ask. It was learned, however,,
thnt the company hnd signified Its willing-',
ness to squcozo the "water" out of both)
P. It. T. nnd Union Traction stock and ton
put tho former on a purely Investment;
basis with n present market value, of
about 42.
It In also known thnt the lenso will pro
vldu for tho operation by tho company, of
tho entire system ns a unit. Including the
Darby elevated and tho Northwest subway
elevated, work on which I. to bo begun
promptly. '
The Hapld Transit trust certificate,
soared to n now high mark tthortly before
2 o'clock thin nfternoon, when a block of
1 000 share, .old for 3 J M, the highest price
reached since 1909 and Mi point, above the
closing- price yesterday. ,
The market opened today at 31. The price
roso to 33 ',4 nnd subsequently dropped s.
fraction, remaining below 31 until noon,
when It rose gradually until 33 H was
reached, Tho total sales today up to 3
o'clock reached only 26,000, which. Although!
much larger than nomavqjjcojunerrtbbj;
below tho'hlgfi niritTn .ale. yesterday
and Monday. The sales for tho 'lasUJlire'B ,
dnya, or silica the tip of tlif Ti'Kreemen
first went out. have passed the 100,000 mark
or moro than one-sixth of tha total o'trt
standing shares of tho company,
Later trie stock dropped lo 11M, but soon
gained strength, and was at 33 Just before
the market closed,
imucTortH in srH9ioN
The big developments today began wllh
a meeting nf tho executive committee
of tho Philadelphia Hapld Transit Company
early this afternoon. This meeting: was
followed by a meeting of the board of
directors of the company, which began at
3 o'clock, Mayor Hnittli, Colonel Sheldon
Potter nnd William Hancock, who are the
city's transit representative., were present
at the latter meeting, Tho proposed agree
ment between tha city and company wa. the
solo business,
Immediately after this meeting H. T,
Stotesbury, chairman of tho company's ex
ecutive committee, and Thomas n. Mitten,
president, will proceed to the onica of Mayor
Smith, where the formal conference wilt e
held. Iteprescntlng the city will be the
Mayor, Mr. Hancock, Colonel Potter, Cty
Solicitor Connelly, Chairman Gaffney, of
Continued on I'.ie Tito, Column Three '
U. S. GUARDSMEN FIRED
ON FROM MEXICAN SIDE
Oklahomn Infantry Attacked
but None Hurt Returns
Volley
BAN UBNITO. Tex., Dec. 20. Company
Tl, Plrst Oklahoma Infantry, on guard a
the tfantu Maria pumping station, wa. fired
upon by Mexicans from serous the Jtlo
Orando last night.
Two of the fifty shot, passed through, onl
of the .heltor tent, but no one was' In
jured Tho. American soldier, returned the
n. but owing to the darkness could KOf"
tell whether many of the .hots took eReet, -
An armed guard ha. been patrolling the,,..
the Mexican .Ida of the river for several "
days. ,
Colonel Itoy V. Hoffman, of the Vlrs
Okjahoma, began an lmpieulate Investlsa.
lion.
Senate Agrees to Christmas Hecesi
WASHINGTON, Dee, 10 The SeWs
this afternoon adopted the IIbum resoluna
At recess Friday until Janua.ry 3.
DOWN WITH FAMILY
rORTJttAITS
says Miss Georglanna King, pre
fessor of modern art at Dryn Maw,,
in. an interview wijh M'Usa on th
WOMAN'S PAGE
of TODAY'S
Euentjtg Htb$t
wiQ&Mmmm"-,"V,uwMp'&- f
f
gogiri atwMBOZx:
j f
