THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
r-
AMan JtVu1 N DEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWISTY-SEVENTH YEAR
I I PAGES
PHOENIX, AU1ZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 20, 1910
14 PAGES
VOL. XX VII.,. NO. 215
Britain's New Prime
Says Peace Plans
HEADS NNOOSE
END Of HOPE IN
Republican A. . Leased Wire
I-ii.NlKiN. Dec. 1'J. The announce
ment in the house of commons tou.ty
by lavid Lloyd George, the new prime :
minister, that ihe fust act of his :l -1
ministration was the rejection of the
iir,ilio..-.l of the cenfnil lmwerM for ll
peace conference constituted one of the
GERMANS' HANDS
most momentous scenes winch me old- with ilcfc-i in tho organization oi
est parliamentary veterans had ever economic life and tharged that there
witnessed. (had been a lick of orgBiiiJiation in the
The new premier declared that he- production of war material. He then
fore the allies could give favorablu u Hacked Flench diplomacy, lo which
consideration to such an invitation, he imputed a.s a result the ie.ent
they must know that Germany was', events in Athens.
prepared to accede to the allies- terms. I -Mo not think tht voiir past va'
giving "complete restitution full iep-
aration. and effectual guarantees, "and
that "to enter a conference upon the
Invitation of Germany, proclaiming
herself victorious, without any know-
ledge of her proposals would be putting
our heads into poosc with the end
of the rope in Germany's hands."
Mr. Llod Gome asserted that nt the
moment, Germany was penning the
note, assuring her convictions a.s to the.
rights of other nations, she was drag-
King Belgians into slavery, lie mi-
nounced that the note presented
through Washington. contained no pro-
posals f terms, but was a paraphrase
of Chancellor von 1 ethmanii-Hollweg's
secch and that the allies had scjia-
rately concluded to reject it. although
thev had Informally exchanged views
and would within a few days present a
joint reply.
Mr. Asiiulth. th- former premier,
seconded Mr. Lloyd George's decision
with even stronger word", and almost
at the same moment KarDCurzon was
informing the lords that Lie govern-1
mem wotll-i cmcr ti-i .-.,.iie cm v in.it
did not guarantee for Kurnw the free
and independent existence of nations.
great and small. The Marquis of t'rewej
affirmed the approval of the mcrtilcrs. j
of the late government. j
The day was a doubly important ore i
for the commons, because the new!
premier unfolded his prr-tram for wide ;
reaching war measure, and Mr. Air!
tiflth closed the Inst chapter of his'
nine years of leadership with an ac- 1
ountinir of his war stewa rds'iin. 1
(The principal reaturea or Mr. ijoya
.jUewrgts program M a incasun; for na-,
tional servtr matching Germany s'
lmest hem whereliv evev fitiaen
will be liable for enrollment, to perform
work for whlnh the authorities consider
him beat einlppel. ,
Arthur Neville Chamberlain, mayor
of Birniingham. and a member of the
famed familv whose energy and busi
ness capacity are rated high, will 1
director of the national service, with
civil and military directors responsiole
to him.
The premier prefaced bis re vie' of
the situation by the statement that
Tritons did their best in time of dan
ger, that the country' fhould 1h told us
pleasant facts, and that he would give,
not a dark, but ft stern vierv of the
outlook.
ftising in the house a fw minutes
after four o'clock, the prime minLter
said:
" I appear before the house of com
mons tonay witn tne most terrune re- ,ho,ltrh the (rmMn diplomats, inti- house of lords, rl Curaou. hoJs a
soonsibility that can fajl upon the fMt1v fnn,niar witn the alms and memiar of the new war council, said:
shoulders of any living man as chief vjWH of ,nc centrPj powers made no I "The policy of tho new government
advisor of the crown, in the most gi- :ittemit to conceal their uncertainty that the war must lie conducted
ganllc war In which this country has rt.Kar,iiK tne outcome of such ncgo- itb the utmost prosecution; that
ever engaged a war i(-n the evnit of uutjon:i. Th feel, however that If there must be an ampic return fo:
which its destiny depends. It is the the note r-plvmg to the German com- uH murll li -s; th;,t full reparation
greatest war ever waged: the burdens miinirat'on follows the tenor of the murt 'e made by Ihe cnemv for his
are the heaviest ht have 1-ocu mst (ircnrier's spee:h, the ctiN-nle from countless crimes, and M-curity given
upon this or nny other country and tne.ihe T"iito"lc vic;winl. lias done all that Ihewe crirncx will not I- re.caici
issues the gravest liiat have lK.en at- expected of it and has briught the nd tat the Hu'rificcs mail., shad
tiiclied to any ronfilcf In whicli human- idea of a peee confen nee one step not havn been In vain,
ity was ever InvoI- eiJ. .nenrrr realization. J "Tho government's aim Is that the
"The resiMiisibiliti'S of the nevr gov-: "It appe-irj, from the Uritish pre- 'peace of Kuroiie shall I re-wtab-ernment
have Ijeen suddenly accentu-1 mtr's speech." said Count von Item- lishe'd on the basis of the free and In
nlisj by the declaration made by the clorrf. !he Genftan amaassador. in an i dependent xi:-tcie e of nations, great
German chancellor. The stalcmvat authoriz-d -late. net t, "that the an- and i-mall and that n regards th!
I ,' country. It shall Ik ttee from Ihr
(Continued on Ps-... 'Continued n I-agB Fivel menace which tin- triumph of ifcnninv
ASQUITH WmWm THEN
MniTC DCDCDCiiipr Tn Dmpr
t vh . rrr r . ir rru nr
IIIIII1L.U 1 1 1.1 L.III.I1UU I U I L.IIUU
f Republican P. Leaaed Wire
, IJNIMJN', lJec. IS. The former pre-
tnier. Mr. Aso,ulth, after declaring In
tho house of commons 1,-1 il.t l.lu
,, '.y. i.!.,
rirst Only was to extend congratula
lions, which he did with all hl heart,
to Mr. l.loyd-Gi)rge upon hi acces
sion to the liiabest mid most Impor
tant office in tiie service of the crown,
made a brief but iKilntod reference to
the guest ion of pence.
"The country," he said "lias Just re.
ceived aomc so-cfllled peace proposals
from Germany. True, these urooosals
'Pw... . ... i
.""'-"' ""'":"
are wraioed up witli the familiar dla
lect of Prussian arrogance. But how
cornea It after two years of war that a
power which professes Itself conscious
of the military superiority and ultimate
victory ickIiim to whisiwr" nav, even to
shout so that all the world can-hear
the word 'peace'? Is Ihis from a sud
den access of chivalry? When did thej
German chancellor become so sensitive!
lo the dictate of humanity? t
"V muat IcHjk elsewhere for the or- I
Ipin of thsse proiiosals. They are born j
of military and economic necessity. We!
nil yearn for peace, but It must be arc
honorable, not u shame-faced peace.!
There must lie no natched-up. precar-'
iou compromise. It must be a ik-hcc
that achieves the ,,ur,u,Ur. a.r .mi,
entered the war riuch I pe ace we'
v.. r'. ucn a peace we
,Vf " V. . I. A"?':"n '" Ull tor prohibition In the District of
, ev oh La.7 ,0"fn'i ' r'pU' la,,B by "v- -oluinbl. and It wi!l be put on pass-I
ery obligation of honor and, alaive ail. tomorrow Friends .If ihn mens.'
by. the debt we nw.iim- n, uZi-l'.tZ J!i"Ju-t .nenaM of 11,0 "eas-
ti men o rm oi me aiuse.
"I see nothing In the note from Ger
many which aives me the 1
to believe that ihejr ar ,pr!;ird to
. .... .,-, ,.,,,-u ,,,.,r-, rrsiuenis. i ne amenument .vm
f-'ve us reparation and security. If (beaten In committee of the whole. 2'i vent mo . ve"n I e srsslon at!
Miev nr. n such a mood. If th.v a-ei.o r-. Senator Cnderwood gave no- ' C",,, '" 'J'ife the or,l ln"rv
,.reparerl to give us reparation for the tlco ttmt i,P H-milil afk for a separ- ' tomorrow- f
SAYS FRENCH CABINET
IS DILATORY; BRIAN D
GIVES LIE VIA VERDUN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '.k-we
J'AIUS, Dec. Homy
Bert-n-jer, 1
senator lor Guadeloupe, icfr. y in the
senate accused tho cabinet of weak
ness und dilatoi-iness. The senator
said the new ministry had brought
about onlv a change In personnel.
Ti ls was ihown in the vv in which
1 li- war was being direct d ;he
tench had oeen enable to drive the
t i.nu lh. fnintifl. The
speaker thru reproached the ministry
record." said M. lierenser. addressing I
l'reinicr Lriund. "gives us sufficient
assurance for the future." i
M. liriand in replying uepievntej
reufoaot - .ef, against the government at
tnis grave period, "because the men in
power must oe able to work with
necesvarv freedom of mind, have im-
lnimjnl"il confidence at home for
their actions abroad end our allies
must not be allowed to think thai our
".nvcinincnt is under suspicion and
the iiiciu-ic of intei'ts-llution."
" am ready." M. B'iand continued,
"to make- way at any time for I J vh -i
may be considered mine worthy I bun
. Hot I ask yon vith the sytr:n
employed up to this lime what gov-
oinmcnt could resist? As c- in 1
LW STILL BE
Rr-uihlican A. . Lard Wire)
VSHINGTON. It-v. W. The flrvl
utuciai impression or i.ioyu . .uoie
reply t'tl.e German iwace ptoposnj.
w ith the- announcements of Utt"W
It.ilv and France, is that It doea
net fo-eclcse further moves trlilcu
might , lead ti a discussion of ieae
inch as th cnitrj.1 iKrwers have aiiK
;jstel. This vlw is held by officals '.f
administration and ot the German
embassy official Washiigton Is
prieticallv unanimous, however, in
th; (Diuiot. fiat th I'rltish premier's
njf-ech Iiaa shovn that any positive
actio-i by the L'n'ted Slates towart!
nv-diation not onlv would 1h prema
ture tuit might embarrass such action
later.
It was stated authoritatively to-
night that for the present the I'nlted ;
States would act only as on inter- i
mediary transmitting communications (
wiHten ie ifeiiizerents.
Th. German embassy internrets the
Hritl:,h premier's speech as opening
ihB u.,., i. a r,tw:n- i(u.,i..i,m ,. i
oast and security for the future, let
them say so."
Mr' A'l"llh ln congratulating Mr.
Dl
PEAL,
PLANS
u n- spoaciti t .ouimuis oi r.-wt-, ioro proit-ssov
frft" "here he did. it was not because of Ihe council in the late government
he claimed to ls the leader of the op-(who upproved In general termr. th
position. OpiHisitlon there wa none, . po'ler oulihied by his successor. Lord
and his one great desire was to place Cution. touching pejee. He mild:
at the disposal of the government' "V. haven't moth hope- that fp'r
whatevcr experience he possessed. ('many's 'acc offer, will lead to any
Wbile It was a relief to be. free from i thing. The offer, however, seems mi
the almost unsupportable burden, con- indlcBtlon of the strength of the pres-
t,r f -'"i
. ..... .
tlnued Mr. Asoulth, It also was a mat-!
10 i' rt y uoiioifioeo lllB .
task for which he had lbore.l ko lotur
He did not assume the role of apol
ogy for tho late government, and he
denied that there had lawn slackness
on Its part.
C Prohibition Bill to-
Come Up In Senate Today
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON Ter. The wnv
..!... . ..i i ;.. .u. .........
r, . ""'"
final . vote on Senator Kheppard's
- ! -
The main fnjlit cne over Kenator
Lnderwooda amendment provldlnir a
referendnrn of th;. qtiestlon to dls-
Minister
Rejected
gone more than 44 times before
ln coiuiimieea leacn coiiuimice coui-
poscu or loiiy-onii mcniosrci mm
i lately was detained ten entire, flu yd
In 'i-eret sessions t-f the chamticr. I
ask you, under these condltioita, how a
president of the cabinet can be
war president'." i president of ener
getic action" When you know the
facts of the terrible tak to which 1
am bound, tren you will judge me
and condemn me If you think fit."
Mr. JUiainl alluded to the latest
'rench v ietorv at Verdun, which
evoked much applause, Kefcrring to
the grneral military situation, the
premier continued:
"If wc h:ve not brol.cn ttuougli.
neither have tt.e Germans broken
through i.fter forty years of ;re ra
tion, even though i: mtKht have been
trough! they would triumph after
hartng violated Belgium. Fottunatdy
French soldiers, nearly alone at that
time, blocked the way und Raid no
thoroughfare The got crumont from
the beginning !id Its duty In permit
ting our allies to organize."
The pr mier sketched what Russia
and Italy hud done and alluded to
joint ctforts that had lwen for unity
f ac'.lon. "The government thinks,
aid M. liriand, "it has given proof of
all reuiri1 energy. But If the senate
doubts this, let any one t:iie th
,;lan,l with dK''iinen( ami we will
reply."
I M. Hertnuer arose and put sevresil
rtuestions to the iiremler but t!ie
ere mtt developed.
. OE BACA TO INSIST
ON HI? INAUGURATION '
' LOS .voi:Li-:s. U-c. 19. K. T'. x
! I e Llaca. ov jrnor-elect of New
1 .Mexico, who eine here a month I
ago In .1 serious ci million from
1 i-erniclnus unemla. will return lo
' ShdU l-'e.. the state capital. In t
1 rim" to take the oath of office. !
' if le hs to "be carried there on j
t n trtcic-r." according to an an- (
! lo'incement mule pnl lie today. !
Mr I" llaca. according to his !
J physician, lias hor-i improve- I
! nient largelv through a determln- :
! ation to be ready for his Inaug- '
oration. He arrived here Not. I
I 19 and since that time three t
' transfusions of Mi-od have been i
i nuo.e to strengthen hjm. ajipsr- I
il'iif Kh1 auccess. lie sUII 1
ronfinul in a hospital, hut is i
improving. x I
PEACE UNLESS
' Heouniiean A. P. U rated WIreJ
LONDON, Ik-c. 19. In t.resentlng
tl o rsfllcv of the vovernment In the
antl tho 4;nnan spirit would entail.
"ur nnstver t Ormany's latest
move must In.- swift and sure, it Is
i is t too much to ask the cople to
take iiror th"mselve- for a few
! months the obligations w hich Scr-
I Many ha Imposed ii)on hers' If. The
illation Is fluhlimr for Its life anl Is
entitled to the best and fullest service
of its sons."
j .aiiumiiik loioe to'tmon ot lioioainu
, l ord Curson said that Germany's sue.
j was trying to make out.
( I.rd f'urxon spoke lor an hour and
(twenty minutes and was followed by
sure of our blockade If peace were
uinur
present aae mav not'see war again.
nobody can nay that our children will
not witness mother war with greater
horrors. We must carry It on to the
lat man and the last shilling
(ate vote en it waen Ihe bill with
amendments enme up for final action
' There, Is little chance that the tic
! can fie broken by Vice President
I Mrio,n i,. i. . iv. w.h.
niton betore the enate convenes
" orVovv tonenes
l" norT0"- , , ,
.Senator Sheppard showed a dls-
I IPitl"!! lJ 1I .f"n IUI iL 1 II IH I ill"
tonight, but there wns evidence that
nn.. ,i .n m ..u
; filibuster find after much pre-
hi,.. ,1.. -.
senate
nnd left
course
, p . . r
GURZON SAYS 0
IS T
OBLIGATION 10
SEd COUNTRY
L
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 111.-The agi
tation for some form of compulsory
military service in the I'nited States
received Qualified support from Sec
retary Baker today before the house
military committee, encouraging op
ponents of the present volunteer sys
tem to predict that legislation for a
change might bu framed which would
be sanctioned by Mr. ISaker and pos
sibly by President Wilson himself.
The president has said he would not
attempt to reach a decision on the
subject until a definite plan' was
placed before him.
Heplying to a direct question as to
his views on compulsory military set-'
vice. Secretary Kaker said:
"The obllRbtlon to serve the country
is a universal one. The question of
how to bring about preparation for
national defense is one of policy rather
than theory. Whether universal mili
tary service or n selective conscription
Is the correct answet. I do not know.
The theory of a common Interest in
a common country would be satisfied
by a menus of selecting soldiers that
was lot voluntary in character."
The secretary tout the committee.
however, that since conKress had re
jected the continental armv plan in
favor of the national guard system, he
believed the iuard should be given a
fair trial. He Inclined to the view that
reirimenls returninc; fr.nn the border
would be held together by the ox
perlence through which they hud
passed and that officers and men of
Ihe guards would hold together, lie
did not amplify his suggestion in re
gard to selective conscription. It is
known however that he has laen
studying the question of the ptopet
riaau or the military service since the
recommendations of fhe general Maff
for universal service Icgisk'llun were
submitted. It is iinderslisid the plan
under consideration contemplates the
mukliiK of an inventory of men in the
eountry. as is heim: done with indus
trial resources, and devising a means
whereby every citinen would lie made
liable in a war emergency" for the
character of work for which he is best
fitted, by his peace time traininv.
ln Ihe near future Mr. Baker will ap
pear before the senate sub-committee
which is hearing the opinions of army
officials and others on the Chamber
lain universal training bill. Major
General Hugh I- Scott, chief of slaff.
was again before the rub-committee
today, urging univeral service Ici;!
lalion and submitting the rrsirt on
the mobilization of the national Biianl
for border duty, compiled by Colonel
W. C. Jlrown from all Information
available at the war department.
The conclusion of the general staff.
General fccott said, that no adequate
defense could le built up under the
present volunteer .ytcm. van' fully
substantiated by reisirts of depart
ment commanders. inspector-Instructors
and others. Included In Colonel
Itrown's compilation and which dis
closed vital and inherent faults In the
national guard system which could
not he passed over.
Colonel Krown. who commanded, the
Tenth cavalry under General I'ershing
and led. the detachment which dealt
the most severe punishment to the
Villa bandits, was before the commit
tee himself and told of the hardships
the troops In Mexico encountered, on
the forced marches and the terrific
pace set, adding that only thoroughly
(Continued on Page Eight)
1
Ajo Carpenter .
Is Attacked By
Three Ruffians
(Special to The Republican!
AJO, Ariz- Dec. 19. Assailed
by three men with rocks at a road
erossinq. W. M. Nichols, car
penter, drew a revolver and fired
for assistance. John Scott qot
the qun away as it was about to
be wrenched from Nichols by one
of the men. Tho three were ar
rested and held to the superior
court foe aqqravated assault.
The incident has served to de
termine the officers to bring un
der sterner treatment the hobos,
I. W. W.' and other undesirables
who have recently drifted into
Clarkston aid became an annoy
ance and a . threat to the com
munity in associating with un
emoloyed Mexicans. Leniency has
been the rule hut this abuse will
not be tolerated, it was said to
day. T
RUSS flULE IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IIKKLIN. Dec. (Wireless to Suy
vlllc) The Overseas News Agctny to.
iiav gave out for publication a Con
M.intinoide dispatch containing a
siieech of the Turkish minister of
foreign affairs. Halil Hey, before pir
llameiit dcalln.tr w ith a wi n! address
made, before the Kussinn duma by
I'rime Minister Trcpoff concerning tic;
ngreement between the entente allies
with regard lo the disposition of Con
stantinople after the war.
"The 1 Hussian Minister TroKiff."
Ililil Key is quoted as having said,
"considered It .necessary after the
t-re-iMrlown of Kumaiiia to delude the
downhearted Husslun people by hold
ing before their eyes u dream of the
conqiiect of Constantinople, He de
clared thft France and Knglunu had
agre.-1 with KuhsU to suppin't Kua
rlu's despotism over1 "onst.inllnoile
and that the Russian ' peoiile. must
know whv thev were sending- tlie'lr
blood. '
DREAM
CONSTANT NOPLE
HUNT BALKED i 2 COURTS;
IVES' INJUNCTION DENIED;
HEARING SET FOR DEC. 28
FEDERAL CONTROL OF
RADIO COMMUNICA TION
IBeoublican A P. Leasee Wire
WASH1NGTON. Dec. lit. rirst steps
toward ultimate government control of
all radiox communication between tne
I'nited States, its outlying possessions
and ships at sea are proposed in an ad-
minlstratioii bill laid before congress
today, providing for a sweeping revis-
ion of the laws regulating wireless
stations.
The in iiposal Is in line witli a plan
worked out nearly a year ago by navy
wireless exoerts and endorsed by Sec-.
retary Daniels and other administra
tion officials in an informal siigEestion
to all of the American republics for
uniform eovcrnment wireless control
throughout the western hemisphere. ale by Senator Fletcher, a member or V" s merry Wav , yesterday. Start
t ,..!.. i... r Li,.. , ,i ,.. .i... 'ng hi tee ui.erior court in tli mom-
As an initial step, the measure pre-
Meiiieit tiid:iv would a at tioriy.e the fed-
eral uoverntncnt to purchase commer-
cial stations where th
e owners are will-'
valnaiioi, wouhl
wued p ants to be
1
ing to sell at a fair
permit government ow
TWO DEAD IN GAS
EXPLOSION IN MINE
i:i:i'ci:viLLi:. in.i.. ix-. i:t
''Two miners are dead and filteen
injured as rtie result of a gas x-
plosion in lite tHiphaut-.lohnsoii
mine near here today, tine bun-
i dred and fifty men were cn-
t lonil'd bv he blast, but first-aid
I crews from ncaibv mines pave 1 j
i early assistance and the workings I j
: wei cleared In about four hours, i I
! William 1'alley and Tliomas l'i't- j
!. terson. Iioth o( Hrucevlllr. were i
1 fo badly Injured they died a short 1 I
I time alter ladng oiought to the
I surfai-e. rulmotirs revived more f
! than fifty who had lcen over- 1
I come pv gas The. injured are ex-
I pected lo re'ovr. State officers '
ar' investigating the cause of the
I explosion.
I
TWITS'
(Special to The Republican.)
A.IO. Dec. 1!. Ievelopments today
have strengthened the belief that there
are many Mexicans in Ajo who Hre ad
vised of plans for a raid over the bord
er and are prepared to join the invad
ing force, which Is expected to come
north from the vicinity of ionlta.
Nolhinii could be learned today of
the movements of supposed illista
BELIEF GROWS
III
bands south of the border. Neither i The message of the Americans was
has there been any confirmation of re- in reply to that presented by the Mexl
bris that troops will be sent in. ' cans when they reconvened yesterday.
It Is said that there is a serious need The communication of the Mexicans
for armed men to patrol the outlying was not signed by Carranza but his
districts of the camp, and to watch spokesmen made it clear that it wa
and be prepared lo meet a band of an authorized statement of his attl-
ralding Mexicans should they conclude
to move across the line.
Harris Goes to Ajo
I'p to yesterday aftermsiu. the kov
ernor hud not been officially Informed
of the threatened .Mexican Invasion of
erin.r stated that the governor had
not been appealed to, and that until ,
some official word was received, there'
would be no official action on the part ;
of IIm- chief executive.
.Mr. Ijuld did not know Just exactly
what the governor would do In caw 1
there was an appeal, stating that there j
wire several cKirscs of action open to I
him. There are no slate troops under j
the governor's control now, the Ariaonai
regiment having been taken Into the
federal service.
Adjutunt General Harris, acting tin- I
dor orders from the covemor left for
Ajo last night to investigate the trou
ble. He seemed to be of the opinion
that the danger was more Imaginary
than anything else, and stated that it 1
was probably a scare sent out by the
mining companies to secure military
protection for properly threatened by
destruction by the striking Mexicans.
HOPPE MAKES NEW RECORD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FKANCISCO. Dec. 1!). Willie
lloppe, billiard champion of the world,
made a new world's record here today
In an exhibition mutch with "Young"
.lake Schuefer. of Chicago, in which
lloppe made an unfinished run of 250
points from the sisit in an 18.2 balk
line match of "40 points.
Arizona Fares
Indian Appropriation Bill
(Special to The Republican)
WASHINGTON. l)cc. 1 1. The In
dian Mil, the first appropriation meas
ure reported to the house, has passed
that body In record time. The bill car
ries appropriations amounting to lu,
fi7(i,a0(i of which over a million dollars
is to be expended in Arlstona. In addi
tion to the usual sums appropriated
for the support and civilisation of the
Indians In Arizona, which amount to
over lUOU.OUO, their education la pro.
vlded for hy special appropriations a
greeating over I300,(mo. Of thlr mnmnU
$14il,90 is to be expended af the I'hoe
nls Indian School,
opened for private commercial busi-
ness; and in the interest of national
defense would throw restrictions about
the participation of aliens in the cou-
trol or the oiierations of American
wireless, livery private concern oicr-
ating" in the I'nited States would be
required under the bill to bring at least
two-thirds of its stock under American
ownership and to have a two-thirds
majority of Americans on its board of
& directors. No alien would be licensed
as an operator in any land plant on
American territory.
The bill, drafted! by representatives
of the several executive departments
; int crested, was introduced in the sen-
the commerce committee and in the
house bv Itepresentat ive Alexsmd
i chairman of the merchant marineVom- I
mittee. The expectation is that it will
l.e pressed for .parage during the pre,,
ent short session.
TO DECIDE ON
Republican A. 'P. Leased Wire
I'HILAUKLI'HIA. Inc. 19. ,wr?.
tary of Interior Lane and his col
leagues on the Mexican-American
Joint commission placed Uam General
FUTURE COURSE
Carranza totlay the responsibilty of de-
U!cidlng whether the American govern-
mem should continue Its efforta to ef-
(thment of the relations between the
two countries and then adjourned uii -
til
alter, me tioiiaays. 1 tirougn - urn
; varranxa representatives iney Kent u
tnfirr cvmmumcncrtnTrfev -fc-mra ih -
j iug the position or the L".. S. uovcrii- J there vu n. great delving into must.
, ment and containing protestations tomes nnd a heap of eompillni; and
, that there exist no intention to vio- ' cotlectintr.
lale the sovereignty of Mexico. It was
made dear, however, that there can
I no modification of the condition on
which the American troops will Ik?
withdrawn from Mexico and that the
'attitude of the government as out-
I lined in the declaration of policy made
by Secretary Lane when the protocol
; was signed at Atlantic City has not 1
I been altered.
The communication was handed to
the Mexican representatives In joint
session and transmitted by them al
most immediately to Queretaro. where
it is expected It will be given prompt
consideration by General Cariaiir. It
was signed and a copy sent bv.i.iail
tude and the reply given bv the Ameri
cans today is understood to have been
addressed to the Mexican commission
ers although intended for their execu
tive. The Mexicans appeared confident
j n,,,,, of would
after the beginning of the new year
iney wouiii or uiscusMiig with the order to prevent the Ismic of a cert if I -American
commissioners those uues- eale of nWii.... i.v voHn. rk.
lions which are not covered in the
brief agreement whose ratification is
bcini; awaited. , !
ft was not decftkd where the com
missioners would reconvene in the
(Continued on Page Two)
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA, D-.s-. ill. Testimony
in.
I.. . I 1.. II. 1 1,..,..., ,. ' .......
SAW HUNDRED THOUSAND WILD '
HORSES THROUGH FIELO CLASSES
erous 011 the" government reservation 1 " tlol,ars w,l seuurvd. GvUTli
in Coioulno couuly. ArtzoiuL. nnd thai,,n,-n' "J""' IcstiCkd there vcr.
thev had sold ln carload bts for fi lPV' 'T th:,n Tollr .thousand wild horsei
to $TJ a head In Omaha nnd Kansas I"'" ,he "wrx-alioii ami tl.at na-st ot
Cltv. was inti-oduced bv the dui-nse 'u'm ,v-rc "Mivencka and belonged to
today in the government's suit aguinst f,he Mo n'd the others wore IHo
tne I nltel SStales Livcstnclt company
and the Omaha Land and Invest men'-.
eomnuny. chargwl with use of the
Well In
I ConirresMiian Havden 'was success-
ful in his effort to secure an appropri -
ation of $ luu.ttUO to roinploto the ulver
sioti dam above Florence and also ob
tained t?r..(Mio to commence the con
struction of the main. canal which will
carry the water from this dam to the
lands belonging to Indians and white
men in 1'lnal county. His request for
1125,0110 to complete another diversion
dam near Sacaton was likewise
granted. Thlu dam will be constructed
with a bridge superstructure thus pro
vidlng a much needed means of cross
ing the Gila River. $98,000 yvas also
- 1 appropriated for other Indian Irrigation
(-enterprises in Arizona.
tr
E TANGLES
T
T
Is a certificate necessary? - ?
, Where is the "contest?"
Why? . , .
Whal? '
Through a maze of legal highways
.Hid byways that conluKt- all laymen
and nlinv attorneys. the Hunt-Camp'-M'll
election contest proceeded
j lug. along lines exactly :iu forecast
tiv y;:sterd;:y I'.epubiican, tho battle
raged through inobt cf the morning.
V .7 ,"or,,,,"f'
j - -
.,, .,,, . ... i .1 '
1 tie inoruli,g nnd wime mitre in the
afirnusni. 'u.d alter it ix came .10 lalei
that court adjourned and nothing rein:-.
Inc-d Jut worried attorneys and
.- faintly gibbering auuience, the fol
lowing lu'ge. wholesome, fact devel
oped. The eontest. so-called, has sub
sided, nnd is running a bad secon't
to a new ilaflu tne obtcct of which
is. lust this; Get your man in offht
January 1. Poth sides want it. and
'intil it is settled, the ballots and the
tally sheets- and the inspectors and
the wau-heti are persons and things
of less than no interest. They arc
si.nply -.lot in the picture;
It also develoied that the Camp
!ell attorneys, headed bv Judge R K.
Sloan, are willing, if they get a certificate-
for the governor-elect,' to (to
back into the ballot inspection ,-ji),
both f"ct. H has been pretty well
circulated bv- the HumPcs thr.t the
Clan Cami liell is sore afraid to con
. '", , 'v "i1 a 1 . "T""l9 "ut
H. V J.:
tinue pawmg over the ballots. But
1 ;..i,. . i,.i - 1,J '1..
1 , uTWioandirenw' courts. In-
I dicaicd even to the lav mind thai
the coc.jis and the attorneys for the
three I art es . Interest Hi,! not -.l
..: 4hsw v-r - - .-,.-
The high court implied it would
not consiiii r a formal certificate of
election necessary which implication,
if placed on official record, would in-
terpret the lar and settle a lot of
questions 'Net the. Campbell attor-
" a.-c Vrdinij every energy t.
secure a certificate, and the Hunt
cound are h'.infng monkey-wrenches
to' throw In the machinery.
Stanford Retain Ballots
When Jiidfce Stanford quashed the
coitcst. the question," What is t-
become of the ballots if the court
declares itself out of Jurisdiction?"
was widely- asked. Hie honor settled
that mattet yesterday when h made
an order retaining control of the bal
lot boxes ;md sacks. It Is like the
case of a murder trial started in a
state court, with exhibits brought
into the court's charge, prior to the
dls-overy of the fact that the murder
wa committed on an Indian reser
vation. The Me curt admits Its
lai k of Jurisdiction, hut protects the
exoihlts until it van lirtv them over
to a coi n of competent - jurisdiction.
The Day in Detail
At the convening of thn superior
court at 9:30 o'clock yeHterday morn
,
ing. Attorney Ives, representing Gor-
a cora-
Iti.tit a uU
jnK that the court issue a restniinlne
secretary of state, to Governor -elect
Thomas K Campbell. With Mr. Ives
appeared Attorney General Wiley K.
Jones, as representative of the secre
tary of state, rpon the. filing of the
I Continued or. Pupe Five)
:.'.:n. . ;o defraud in kali, of Arizona
I . . . ... . .
i -"( winn, ll. is Uliefietl. .1
: 1 . n
!,., -"na, wealUiy Council
,." .rcsito'1. retired farmer, tes-
tifie, he went to Flagstaff. Arizona.
climbed Mormon mountain and witn
jfild glass counted the wild horses,
jilts estimates tdiow ed jthero wero 7a.
i'WO or I'in.'ttMl hot sea on the recrva.-
Ition but thej- were 'the wildest wild
hoii-es he eer -ayv." !
The result ot his observations over
1 several (lavs wero recorded in a book,
I l e declared, but he had placed tho
1 nook, w hich was In I lie form of .1
Hilary, in a !;afe, and unfortunately
i hart Inst tin. ...nilti,-ttio. tn. tu
1 On cross examination, Ailanis admit-
led In his opinion, tho .horses
too wild to handle. t .
J. Sydney Smith, defendant, presi
dent of the United ntes IJvestook
fumpany, told how, In 1P09. h Warrto
interested in wild homes, borrowed
money, went to Flagstaff and paid
about $7,000 for all th wild horse
brands he could secure. He testified
it wo si-.ipnientji were mada one of 160
to omana, - where the horsea were
sold at $.10 a head, and the other to
Kansas City where a "number wero
disposed at a very private- saj for
$75 a head."
WOVEN ABOU
