x-
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1S37.
T. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916.
VOL. LXXX, NO. 20 "WHOLE NO. 4144.
Tli - Berry-Ball Dry foods Co.
Only 4 More Days
For Cliristmas
Shopping
Wc still have an elegant line of holiday gifts in
Manicure Sets, Combs
and Brushes
Great assortment of Ivory pieces of
all kinds.
Choice things in nice Table Linens,
nice Down Bed Puffs.
Nice Silk Covered Bed Puffs,
Ladies' and Gents' Hand Bags, Ladies'
and Gents' Umbrellas, prices $1 to $5.
Ladies' Neckwear, Aprons and Bou
doir Caps. Gents' Fur Lined Gloves,
Mittens and Caps. Gents' Bath Robes,
Neckwear, Fancy Hosiery, etc.
Ilic Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co
Ik' j t vi(ifi pssi$
STJOHNSBURY, VT.
THE REAL r
Christmas Spirit
-t , 4 j&
HE REAL CHRISTMAS SPIRIT
f is not so much ia receiving as in giving.
Gladden the hearts of the children this
Christmas by stalling Bank Accounts for
ihem w ith us .
Try this practical plan of giving.
4 Interest Paid
Interest Starts Iuich Month
j
V.
f'
FUNERAL OF HENRY E.
KOEPKA HELD FROM
MASONIC TEMPLE
Tlie funeral of Henry K. KoepUa,
for nearly l c;irs a resilient of St.
Johnslmry was h'M from the Moronic
Temple Tuesday a Iternoon. Tlio aer-
iee was partly of a Masonic nature
a ml a la !;.'; niiinhcr f Masons were
present. .Mr. KoepKa was u oliinl de
gree Mason ami had boon a mem be r
of the order for many years. The
nu n employed in the emery room at
the V:. A: T. Fairbanks s,lu,; attended
in a body, as the deceased was cm
ployed in that room for 37 year?.
Henry 1. Kocjika born near
Jlerlin, Cciiii.iny, in (H-luli'T, 1N10,
"lure during his boyhood he learned
the pottery trade while at s-eljool.
When io eurs old hu'ra'me j this
vountiy. While a oiuiK mail he wa
einplo' id as head weaver in the wool-'
n nulls a: Knlield. Mass. I.e.uiiiK
there he eainc t St. .luhnsbnry v. her-,
afti-ra slim I tune in the iiiaehiin- shop
at tin- i:. ,w T. I'airbanKs :. he went
into tie- i ui' i') roiiiii wh'-re he worl.--d
i;p 1 1 1 1 1 1 tM i'clis of hi de.iili.
Mr. KorpKa never lost the ta:tc for
ueainK and dining spare hours wove
r. eat pets, many t.f which art; owncl
! lu friend- her;.
No was married in to Martha
Gould of llarnet. lie is survived by
three children, l-Mward K. and C. V.
ICoepka of St. Johnsbury and Mrs.
Krne.st Garliehl of Stannard. Also two
brothers and a sister arc living, Her
man and i'aul Koepka and Mrs. Jim
ma Ititman of I'ittslieUl. Mass.
The bearers were: Augustus Beck,
Joseph lieclc, John IJ. Albiser and
James Johnson. The interment was in
the cemetery at I'assumpsic.
t rsiiM.w asj;s si:tti.i:i
1 FRATERNAL ETIXGS
; Uaarrcil Royal Arch Chapter, Jfo. 11
Stated Convocation Friday evening, J ai
I uary 12.
Raymond A. Pearl, E. H.F.
Pxbo G. Moore, Secretary.
Palestine CommanderT, No. 5, K. T
Stated ConclaTC Tuesday evening, Jar
uary 2.
Arthur G. Straci e. Em. Commander
Earl D. Evans, Recorder.
The BIOKeum of Natural Sclestce.
Open week days 9 12 A.M., 1 P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to S . M.
All visitors welcomed.
Man Urouslit lo Court I'linn Maine j
ltrt-cics financial A ill '
A ft i r several months I rceiloia on j
bail, which time was spent in many i
places in the .state of Maine, and uf- i
ler foi-getiing tlutt he was due to up- '
pear at this term of 'aledonia county'
court on a serious charge", or his i
bondsman would forfeit the sum of ;
$."Mi(i, which matter of memory nec- i
cssiiate.l .sending an olliccr after him. j
Kred I'ushman in some miiarnt has;
settled the cases against him and left :
town mi ;m aflernoon train suulh
Vi dio silay.
The principal case against him was
that of the Pulpit lairy farm of Man
chester, N. If., which iilleged he Kohl
cattle ou which they held a inort gi ge. :
ll is rumored thai near relatives aided
him in the m-Miuy mutter;; after find
ing out if any other eha rges would be
held against him.
In any event the cast; is disposed of :
and CusJiman had departed for parts
nnkiiowu.
' St. Johoabnry Athenaeum.
f.IBRAKY tEADINO KOOJf ART GALLR11
J o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day. Wed
itenday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are invited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be inserted In thl
column in reading matter type at th
rate of ten cents a line for the firn
insertion and five cents a line for sub
leguent insertions of the same copy.
The ladies of the Universalist
church will servo a clam chowder
supper in the church vestry this week
Thursday evening. Early la.ble a.
5.30 o'clock. " "wd2:
I have moved my office from m.
house to the Merchants bank block
'ffice hours 10 A. M. to 12 M., 1.3
M. to 4 P. M. Dr. T. R. Stiles.
Get a box of Almon's Cold TablcU
at Scarles' drug store and cure youi
cold. Only 25 cents. V
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by. A. H
Reason, 73 Main street.
If you need a monument or an:
lettering done In cemetery write o
call 534M. J. E. Walker.
U. O. T. Minstrel Show will be
February 2 and 3.
xotici:
The Caledonian ollice will be elo-scc
during the day Christmas Day, wic
next week's issue of The Calcdoniar.
will not be printed until Thursday.
THE CALEDONIAN CO.
UASSUMI'SIC CO. IS HELD LIABLE
Decision Upholds $1,800 Damage
Awarded By Previous Court.
Thursday's session of the countj
court was a busy one. After a num
her of days' trial the case of William
Cross vs the Passumpsic Fibre &
Leather Co., was given to the jury
at 3.2." p.m., and before the close of
court had returned a verdict for the
complainant. The point decided by
the jury at the present trial was as
to the liability of the company in ro
gard to injurie-s received by the plain
tiff while in tho employ of the Pas
sumpsic Fibre & Leather Co.
At a previous session of the count.x
court the plaintiff was awarded v.
sum of S4S00. The case was-taker
to the supreme court, where th(
amount of damages was sustained
but as a question of the company's
liability arose, it was returned to.tht
county court. The verdict returned
Thursday fixed the company's respon
sibility. Porter. Witters and Harvey
appeared for plaintiff, and Blodgett;
Dunnett and Shields for the company.
While the jury was out, three cases
on 1he state docket were called ant1
disposed of. In the case of the state
vs Allen Lee for larceny, the defend
ant pleaded guilty and received a sen
tence of not more than two nor less
than a year and a half in the house
of correction. Because of previous
good behavior the court suspended
sentence and placed the prisoner in
charge of the probation officer for the
term of sentence. He must also paj
to the probation officer within six
months, costs amounting to S30. Guj
W. Hill appeared for the defendent.
Albeit Lotto pleaded guilty to a
charge of grand larceny, and was sen
tenced to nof less than two nor more
than two and a half years in the house
of correction at Rutland. States At
torney Norton did not ask for a long
term sentence as he said in his opin
ion, "a long term tended to harden
rather than to correct," especially
where the prisoner was a young man.
The prisoner was 21 years of age and
unable to talk English. Anthony Mol
lica acted as interpreter. David Por
ter appeared for the accused.
Peter Rocus, James Brown, and
William Burke appeared before-Judge
Butler charged with breaking and en
tering tho store of George B. Wallace
at East Ryegate about a month ago.
They took some merchandise and a
small amount of change. The first
two gave their residence at Denver,
Col., and say they have no parents
living. The other 'boy comes from
Bridgeport, where he has parents liv
ing. They are 21, 22, and 29 years
of age, respectively.
States Attorney Norton again sug
gested leniency on account of age, and
asked tho court if a sentence was im
posed that the prisoners be sent to
Windsor instead of to the house of
correction.
PUL3IOTOII DKMOXSTItATED
Doctors and Members of Police De
partment See Apparatus Used
. The use of the new pulmotor recent
ly purchased by the village trustees was
demonstrated before several of the
doctors and members of the police de
partment Wednesday evening at the
lire station.
O. L. Goudcy of the Dracger Oxy
gen Apparatus Co.. of Pittsburg from
whom the pulmotor was bought ex
plained its use and advocated the pur
chase of oxygen tanks to thoroughly
equip the station.
An effort was made to reach all the
physicians in the city, but a it "was
only hastily planned many could not
be present. Among those present were
Dr. l E. Farmer and Dr. W. G. Bick
er. From the police department were
Chief Finley and oiliccrs Coburn and
Wallace. T .
BOLTON CASE village caucus quiet, CHRISTMAS AT
DR.
BEFORE CO. COURT
West Burke Man Appear; Charged
With Performing An Illegal
Operation Upon Anna Gunder
son Last Jen 3
Xo Opposition To lieiioininatioii Of
Present Oflicials Arthur 1 Stone
Presidential Nominee
THE CHURCHES
The Village Caucus passed off very , . .
James Cos- j many rme icncens ena
PLEADS NOT GUILTY
lut What Line the Defence of the Ac
cused Will Take Is As Act Un
known The Ca.se is the Most
Important Of State
Cases
George W. Bolton of West Burke,
harged with performing an illegal
peration upon Miss Anna Gunderson
f Bridgeport, Conn., on June 17, last,
-leaded not guilty in Caledonia Coun
y court, Monday afternoon at the re
onvening of the session. The case
gainst "Doctor" Bolton, as he is call
d is the most important on the state
iockct for the present term and will
robably take up a number of days.
The case was entered against Bol
on by physicians of Littleton, N. II.,
Joctors Downing and Page, who at
ended 'Miss Gunderson while she was
onlined to the Littleton Hospital as a
esult of the operation.
Both physicians were in court yes
erday afternoon and were called to
he witness stand by the prosecution,
liss Gunderson, the jirst called upon
d testify, testified to the operation be
lg performed at West Burke and the
manner in which it was done. She
Iso told of her subsequent movements
nd of her later confinement in the
ittleton Hospital.
The case lirst came to the attcn
ion of the public w'hen the defend
ant, at a hearing before Judge G. C.
rye of the Municipal Court, July 7.
vas bound over in the sum of $1000
'or appearance before the December
erm or the County Court.
According to the testimony offered
t that time, and also to the testimony
f Miss Gunderson in court yesterday,
he came to St. Johnsbury just prior
o the operation, from Bridgeport
Jonn. She was accompanied to this
ity by a Miss Irene Hayes with wlio.se
elatives she stayed awhile in this
:ity; When asked by "States Attorn
y Xorton in court yesterday as to
vho recommended Dr.'- Bolton she
;ave the name of E. M. Fifield of
it. Johnsbury, but not until the tes
imony had been objected to strenous
y by Alexander Dunnet, counsel for
he defendant. After tho operation,
vtiss Gunderson, according to her own 1
tory, returned to St. Johnsbury. Hav
ng filed her name. with a local era
loymcnt agency, a day or two aftei
lcr arrival in that town she first went
!;o Dr. Downing, and a day or so lajer
vas taken to the hospital there. It is
iot known what the defence of Dr.
Bolton twill bo.
George W. Bolton has been a rcsi
lent of West Burke between 13 and
10 years, and has done a little gar
lening -when not practicing medicine
13 the opportunity offered. It is said
:hat he has come knowledge of medi
cine, but as far as is known has no
diploma in any state, and has never
passed the Vermont State board cx
imination. A few years ago a law was passed
in the state requiring all the doctors
who were not legally registered in this
state to pass examination 'before the
state board. At that time it was said,
that Bolton was practising to some ex
tent, hut when the law was enforced
never registered, but continued prac
tising as quietly as possible such cases
is came to him. The authorities at
different times have tried to convict
him and at one time he was sentenced
to pay a line in Essex County Court.
Miss Gunnison in her testimony yes
terday gave her home as Bridgeport,
Conn., and said she came to Vermont
:o keep the knowledge of her condi
tion from her parents.
The names of the jurymen sitting
on the case follows:
C. K. Bailey, Elmer Farrington, G.
11. Gibson, Abel F. Houghton, David
C. Horner, Harry L. Kay, J. C. Mc
Laren, Frank Pollard, C. M. Sawyer,
Thomas J. Tierney, Moses II. Hite
hill, Charles Powers.
; quietly Monday" evening.
i grave was electee moderator. Very
I Xow changes were made in the village
! officers nominated for election for the
I ensuing year and the ' nominations
! made were practically unanimous.
Arthur F. Stone was nominated for
President to take the place of Joseph
Fairbanks and R. Q. Hamilton re
places Harry M. Nelson as a village
auditor.
The slate nominated last night to
appear for election at the village
meeting January are: Arthur y.
Stone, president; Preston E. May,
clerk; Charles E. Braley, treasurer;
Fred Harriman, health officer, ap
pointive; and Preston E. May, collector.
Trustees, Fred C. Mayo, Charles A. '
Heyer and George A. Bui bank. Au- i
ditors, John E. Puffer, Frank Philburt j
and R. Q. Hamilton. The fire war- i
dens also remain the same and the I
fire and police department officials are
appointive offices as are the surveyors j
of wood and lum'ber. i
G n!atas
Will Be Heard At The Sunday
Morn'ng and Evening Services
CHILDRENS EXERCISES
Sunday School Concerts nntl Christ
mas Trees Take Up the Evenings
From the letter Part or This,
to Tuesday of Xcxt
Week
riXL'KAL OF CiUY F. 3IE.XUT
Services Held From Mother's Home
On Eastern Avenue Thursday
-A
The funeral of Guy F. Menut, whose
remains were brought from Everett,
Mass., Wednesday," was held from the
home yf his mother, Mrs. Mary Menut
an Eastern avenue Thursday .'after
noon. Rev. Alfred Poole Grint of the
St. Andrews church officiated at tho
services. The interment was in the
Mt. Pleasant cemetery, and the bear
ers were: A. R. and E. W. Menut of
Everett, Mass., and William and Lew
is Menut of Lyndon.
Among those present from out of
town were Mrs. John Rickaby of Ar
lington, Mass., Mrs. Guy Menut, E.
W. Menut and A. R. Menut of Ever
ett, Mass.
Christinas at the Po.stotlice ;
For the remainder of this week the !
post office will be open evenings to
receive out going mail. Xo mail will j
be given out after 8 o'clock.
The carriers will be in the office j
Sunday morning and distribute the
mail. The windows will be open from
12 to 2 p.m., Sunday so people can
call for their mail.
Advertised Ix-tters.
The following letters are advertised
for the week ending Dec. 1G: Ladies,
Mrs. Agnes Lcavcrdicre, Mrs. Fred
Woods. Gentlemen, Frank Lemay,
Charles A. Sanborn.
Exceptional musical programs will
be heard at practically all churches in
the city Christmas Sunday. For weeks
back, musical organizations of the dif
ferent churches have been planning
a musical feast for the services on
that day. In some of the churchis, af
ternoon and evening services will be
devoted to concerts by children of
the Sunday schools. Other Christmas
tree exercises and entertainments by
the children will take place in many
churches on evenings from Friday of
this week to Tuesday evening of next
week.
At the Xorlli Cliurcli
The Sunday morning service at the
North Congregational church will be
featured by a cantata, "The Xew
Born King," by Benjamin Loveland.
It will be sung by the North church
quartet and a chorus of twenty voices
under the direction of Frank 11.
Brooks. At 4.30 Sunday afternoon,
exercises of the Sunday school will
be held and a special program by the
children has been arranged.
At the Grace M. 10. Church
For the morning service at this
church, the Grace church male quar
tet has arranged many fine musical
numbers. At tho evening service, a
"Christmas story" in pictures will he
shown, and another musical program
will be rendered at this time. Satur
day evening the Sunday school will
hold their exercises in tho .assembly
I hall.
j Cliurcli of the Messiah j
j At the Sunday morning service spe- j
! cial Christmas music will bo sung by j
the chorus choir, and an appropriate
sermon will ic delivered, by Rev. C.i i
' Jj. Eaton. At the evening service, a;
i cantata, "The Traveller," will be given
i by the chorus choir under the direction
j of George Fetch.- An operetta, "The
i Tables Turned," will bo Ifco ftnturc oft
! the entertainment and Christmas tree
given by the young people of the Sun
i day school, Tuesday at the church.
Union Ihiptl.-t Church
A special musical program that has
1 meant much hard work by the mem-
bcrs of the quartet will be rendered
! at the Sunday morning service, and
, Rev. F. S. Tolman will deliver a
j Christmas sermon on, "Angels Abovo
and Angels Below." In the evening
I at 7 o'clock a concert, consisting of
muwc and recitations by tho children
! will be given.
Tiu Christian Advent cliurcli
! Besides special vocal music for tho
occasion, an orchestra will play dur
ing the Sunday morning servico and
i other special music is planned for the
I evening. On Friday evening of this
week the Sunday school will hold
their annual Christmas tree and con
cert. St. Andrew's Episcopal Church.
Midnight service, preceded by the
i singing of Christmas hymns Sunday
! night at a quarter before twelve,
: when the following music will be sung
! by an augmented choir with organ,
! violin and 'cello accompaniment:
: Processional, "O Come, All Ve Falfh
, Jul," reading; Kyrie ami Nicenu
! Creed, Eyre; offertory anthem.
; "Christmas, Blessed, Blessed Day,"
i Dcnsmorc; Sanctus and Agnus Del,
! Eyre; Gloria in Excclsis, Ellwanger;
i Nunc Dimittis, Barry; recessional,
j "Hark the Herald Angels Sing."
1 Mendelssohn. Everybody welcomed.
Second Christmas Day service at 10
a. m.
i At the South Church
Organ prelude; Doxoiogy; invoca
(Cohtinued on pago four.)
' Suspend
Criticism
1 You are not to blame for the
present Coal situation, neither are
we. We can work the thing out
i together on a Golden Rule basis.
' Criticism won't help a bit.
1 1
fcfc. pflPP!Bf WIWP'' ''Wf
lM!&iri
CASE GOES TO JURY
At a Late Hour Last Xight Verdict
In Bolton Malpractice Case Was
Unknown
The case of George W. Bolton, I
charged with performing an illegal j
operation upon Miss Anna Gunderson I
of Bridge-water, Conn., at West Burke !
last June, occupied the attention of !
county court until late Tuesday after- :
noon when the case was given to the :
jury. The end or the trial came a
little sooner than was expected, as the
summing up uml the judges charge
was comparatively brief.
, Although It was thought that the j
jury would return a verdict before '
court adjourned, at a late hour last!
night no word as to the verdict could
be gained. x
Community Tree
Tile community Christmas tree un
der the auspices of the city mission
will be, held it the town hall Mon
day night. Dec. 2Z. at 7.30 o'clock.
Anyone iitjendjng to put gifts on the
tree will do well to communicate with
I. G. Marshall. We will need some
nuts and candy for the children. Any
small donations along this line will
be appreciate'!.
w
Our 1910 Christmas Club Was The Best Yet
OUR 1917 CUT
Opens jPecemJber 27, 1918
jiND THERE WILL BE CLASSES TO SUIT THE CONVENIENCE OF ALL
In Clas I, pay Ic tin firrt week, 2c the seconJ week, 3c trie third week, and to on, incteaiing tc
each week lor 50 weskl and about two weeks before Chriv.mas (1917) we w:!l mail you a check
for $12.75 with interest at 2 per cent.
Ia Class 2, pay 2c the pnt week, 4c the second week, 6c ths third week and so on, increasing 2c
each week lor 50 weeks and about two weeks before ChrUtmu (1917) we will mail you a check
for $25.50 with interest at 2 per cent.
Ia Clans 5, pay 5c the first week, 10c the second week, 15c the third week and to on, increasing
5c each week for 50 weeks and about two weeks before Christmas (1917) we wiil mail you a check
for $03.75 with interest at 2 per cen
In Class 10, pay 10c the first week, 20c the second week, 30c the third week, and Jo on, increasing
lOceach week for 50 weeks, and about two weeks before Christmas (1917) we will mail you a
check for $127.50, with interest at 2 per cent,
a
You May Reverse The Order Of Payments If You Wish
AND YOUR MONEY WILL EARN TWICE AS MUCH INTEREST
In Claw 1 A, you may atari with 53c the first week and pay Ic lesi each wk, then your last pay
ment will be Ic.
In Class 2A, you may start with $1.00 the first week and pay 2c less each week, then your last
payment will be 2c.
In Class 5A. you may start with $2.50 the first week and pay 5c less each week, then your last
payment will be 5c.
In Class 10A, you may start with $5.00 the first week, and pay 10c less each week, then your last
payment will be 10c.
If You Prefer To Pay An Equal Amount Each Week You Can Do So
For example: By joininj Class 25 you would pay 25c each week and in 50 weeks you would have
$12.50 and interest.
By joining Class 50 you would pay 50c each week and in 50 weeks you would hare $25.00
and iaterect.
- By joining Class 100 you would pay $1.00 each week end in 50 weeks you would have $50.00
and interest.
By joining Class 2C0 you would psy $2.00 each week and in 50 weeks you would have $100.00
and interest.
CAN YOU THINK. OF AN EASIER WAY TO PROVIDE MONEY FOR CHRISTMAS?
WE CONDUCT THIS CLUB, not for direct profit to ourselves, but to encourage thrift, lo accommo
date small depositors and to demonrtrate the beneficial result of systematic saving in small amounts.
JOIN YOURSELF get everyone in your family to join. Tell your friends about it and get thero to join.
Merchants National Hank
ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT
To accommydate thoe who cannot call in the regular turne boors th Bank will be cprn duting
the evteinj. of December 28'h, Z?th, 30th, and Ja. 4th end Oh.
i
7
