VOL. XXXVI. MANNING, S. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916 NO. 5
NCE PROPOSALS
IMNN BY GREAT BRITAIN;
TIRRED BY PREMIER'S SPEECH
like to quote the words of Abraham
Lincoln under similar conditions:
"'We accepted this war for an ob
ject, and a world object, and the war
will end when the object is attained
under God. I hope it will never end
until that time.'
"Are we likely to achieve the ob
ject by accepting the invitations of
the German chancellor? What are
the proposals? There are none.
"To enter, on the invitation of Ger
many, proclaiming herself victorious
without any knowledge of what pro
posals she proposes to make, into a
conference is to put our heads into
a noose with the rope end in the
hais of Germany.
Not Without Experience.
"This country is not altogether
without experience in these matters.
This is not the first time we have
fought a great military despotism
overshadowing Europe, and it won't
be the first time we nave helped to
overthrow a military despotism. We
have an uncomfortable historical
memory of these things and can re
call one of the greatest of these des
pots, whose favorite device was to ap
pear in the garb of an angel of peace,
either when he wished time to assim
ilate his conquests or to reorgani;;e
his forces for fresh contests, or, see
ondly, when his subjects showed
symptoms of fatigue and war-weari
ness, an appeal was always made in
the name of humanity. He demanded
an end to the bloodshed at which he
professed himself horrified, although
he himself was mainly responsible.
"Our ancestors were taken in once,
and bitterly they and Eirope rued it.
The time was devoted to reorganiz
ing his forces for deadlier attack than
ever upon the liberties of Euroe.
"Examples of this kind cause us
to regard this note with a consider
able measure of reminiscent disquiet.
The Only Terms.
" We feel that we ought to know,
before we can give favorable consid
eration to such an invitation, thaht
(;erniaiy is prepared to accede to the
only terms on which it is possible
peace can be obtain'ed and maintained
in Europe. Those terms have repeat
edly been stated by all the leading
statesmen of the Allies. They have
been stated repeatedly here and out
House
''Reparation and guarantee against
repetition, so there shall be no mis
take, and it is important that there
should be no mistake in a matter of
life or death to millions.'
"Let me repeat-complete restitu
tion, full reparation and efiectual
guarantees.
"Did the German chancellor use a
single phrase to indicate that he was
prepared to accept such a peace? Was
there a hint of restitution? Was there
a suggestion of reparation ? Was
there an implication of any. security
for the future that this outrage on
civilization would not again be per
petrated at the first proitable oppor
tunity ?
Quotes l"ro Note.
"The very substa. ind style of
the speech constit'n a denial of
peace on the only a-s on which
peace is possible. le is not even
conscious now that. Germany has
committed any offense against the
rights of free nations. Listen to this
from the note:
"'Not for an instant have they
(the Central Powers) answered from
the conviction that respect of the
tights of other nations is not in any
(iegree incompjatible with their own
i ghts and legitimate ;iterests.'
"When did they discover' this?
Where was respect for the rights of
other nations in Belgium and Serbia ?
'1 hat was self-defense, menace'd, I
supose, by the overwhelming armies
of Belgium. I suppose. the Germans
had been intimiidated into invading
lhelgium by burning Belgian cities
and villages, into massae""ing thou
sands of the inhabitants, old and
youdng, into carrying off the surviv'
ors into bondage. Ye(a, and they were
cairrying them into slavery at the
very moment when this note was be
ing written about their unswerving
conviction as to the respect dlue to
the rights of other nations.
England Would K now.
"Are these outrages the legitimate
interest of Germany? We must
know. Tfhat is not a moment for
Peace. If excuses of this kindl for
palpable crimes can be put forward
two and a half years after exposure
by the grim facts, is there any guar
antee that similar subterfuges will
not be used in the future to over
throw any treaty of peace you may
enoter into wvithI Prussian militarism ?
''The note and spxeech proves that
they have not yet learned the alpha
bet of respect for the right of others.
"Without reparation peace is im
possible. Are all these outrages
against humanity on Ian]l andl sea to
be liquidated by a few pious phrases
about humanity? Germany leaves us
to exact the dlamage. for all future
vio'lence committed after the wvar. We
must exact it now, so as not to leave
such a grim inheritance to our chil
(dren.
"Much as we all long for peace,
'leeply as we are horrihed with war,
this nmote and speech, which heralded
it, dlo not atford us much encourage
ment to hope for an honorable and
lasting peace.
Arrogcant SpIrit.
"WVhat hope is gIven in the speech
that the wvhole root ani cause of thi
CERMAAY'$ PEACE CON[ERE
ARE TURNED D(
PARLIAMENT S
London Dec. 19.-The announce
ment in the House of Commons today
by David Lloyd George, the new
prime minister, that the first 'act of
his administration was the rejection
of the proposal of the Central Powers
for a peace conference constituted one
of the most momentous scenes which
the oldest Parliamentary veterans
had ever witnessed.
The new remier declared that be
fore the Allies could give favorable
considoratio to such an invitation
they must know that Germany was
prepared to accede to the Allies
terms. "giving complete restitution,
full reparation and effectual guaran
tees" and to enter a conference upon
the invitation of Germany, proclaim
ing herself victorious, without any
knowledge of her proposals would be
"putting our heads into a noose with
the end of the rope in Germany's
hands."
No Terms Stated.
Mr. Lloyd George asserted that at
the moment Germany was penning
the note, assuring her convictions as
to the rights of other nations she
s dragging Belgians into slavery.
rie announced that the note present
ed through Washington contained no
proposals of terms, but was a para
phrase of Chancellor Von Bethmann
Hollweg's speech and that the Allies
had separately oncluded to reject it,
although they had informally ex
changed views asnd would within a
few days present a joint reply.
Mr. Asquith, the former premier,
seconded Mr. Lloyd George's decision
with even stronger words and almost
at the same moment Earl Curzon was
informing the Lords that the govern
ment would enter no conference that
(lid not guarantee for Europe the free
and indpendent existence of nations
great and small. The Marquis of
Crewe affirmed the approvai of the
members'of the late government.
An Important )ay.
The day was a doubly important
one for the Commons because the new
pr-emier unfolded his program for
wide reaching war measures and Mr.
Asquith closed the last chapter of his
nine years of leadership with an ac
counting of his war stewardship.
The principal feature of Mr. Lloyd
George's program is a measure for
national service, matching ,vggjptny's
latest scheme whereby ev y citizen
will be liable for enrollment to per
form work for which the, authorities
+ consider him best equipped.
Arthur Neville Chamberlain, mayor
of Birmingham and a member of the
famous family, whose energy and
business capacity are rated high, will
be director of the national service
vith civil and military directors re
sponsible to him.
The premier prefaced his review of
the situation by the statement that
Britons did their best in time of dlan
ger, that the country should be told
\ unpleasant facts and th:.t he would
give, not a (lark, but a stern view of
the outlook.
Premier's Speech.
Rising in the 1-louse o few minutes
after 4 o'clock, the prime minister
said:
"I appear before the House of Com
mons today with the most terrible
responsibility that can fall upon the
shoulders of any living man as chief
adviser of the crown, in the most
gigantic war in which this country
was ever engaged, a war upon the
events of which its destiny depends.
It is the greatest war ever waged;
the burdens are the heaviest that
have been cast upon this or any other
country and the issues the gravest
~ that have been atached to any con..
fict in which humanity was ever in
volved.
"The resp~onsibilities of the new
~government have been sudldenly ne
centuated by the dleclaration madle by
the German chancellor. The state
ment made by him in the Reichstag
has been followed by a note presented
by the United States without note or
comment. Tlhe answer given by this
government will be given in full ac
crwih aMl our allies.
c l ies in Harnmoiny.
" ~Naturadly there has been an inter
i because it has only recently arrived,
but upon the speech which impelled
it, and as the note itself is practi
cally only a reproduction or a par-a
phrase ofthe s peech, the subject mat
ter of the note itself Tns been (dis
cussed informally between the Allies.
I am glad to be able to state that we
each sepaTrately and independently
1arrived at; dlentical conclusions.
"I am very glad that the first an
s:wer given to the statement of the
German chancellor was given by
France and Russia. They have thc
unquestionable right to give the first
Sanswer to such an invitation. 'rhe
enemy is still on their soil andl their
Sacerifices have -been the greater-.
"Tfhe answer they have given has
already appeaired in tne papers~ and
4 I simply stand here to give clear and
# dldfinite support to the statement they
have alreaay matte.
Terrible Rlesponsibility.
"Any man or set of men who want
only~ or without suflcient cause pro
)onged a terrible conflict like this
ould have on his. soul a crime that
-:cedns could not cleanse.
"pn the other hani, it is equally
true that any mion' or set of men wvho
from a sense of weariness or dlespair
-abandoned the struggle without
ghilevig the high purposes for which
s/centered by any statesman. I should
great bitterness, the arrogant spirit
of the Prussian military caste, will
not be as dominant as ever, if we
patch up peace now? The very
speceh in which these peace sugges
tions are made resounds to the boast
of Prussian military triumph. It is
a long paean over the victory of Von
Hindenburg.
"We must keep a steadfast eye up
on the purpose for which we entered
the war otherwise the great sacrifices
we have been making will be in vain.
The German note states it was for
the defense of their existence and the
freedom of national development that
the Ventral Powers were constrained
to take up arms. Such phrases are
intended to delude the German na
tion into supporting the (signs of the
Prussian military caste whoever wish
ed to put an end to their national
exiteence or freedom of development.
We welcome their development so
long as it was on the paths of peace.
"The Allies entered this war to (e
fend Europe against the aggression
of Prussian military domination, and
having begun it, they must insist that
the only end is the most complete ef
fective guarantee against the possi
bility of that caste ever again dis
turbing the peace of :Aurope. Prus
sia since she got into the hands of
that caste has been a bad neighbor,
arrogant, threatening, bullying, shift
ing her obundaries at her will and
taking one fair field atter another
from her weaker neighbors an I a -
ing them to her own dominions.
Disturbing Neighbor.
"With her belt ostentatiousiy full
of weapons of offense and ready at
a moment's notice to uise them, she
has always Ocen an unpleasant, dis
turbing neighbor in Europe. She rot
thoroughly on the nerves of Europe;
there was no pe.iee near where she
dwelt. It is difficult for those who are
fortunate enough to live thousands of
miles away what it has meant to
those to live near.
"Even here, with the nrotection of
the broad seas between us, we know
what a disturbing factor the Prus
sians were with their constant naval
menace. But we can harlly realize
what it meant to France and Russia.
Several times there were threats di
rected against them even within the
life of this generation, which pre
sented the alternative of war or hu
miliation. There were many of us
who hope-I that the internal influenv''
in Germany would be strong enough
to check and ultimate:y to eliminate
it.
''Now that this great war has been
forced by the Prussian leaders it,
would he folly not to see to it th-it
this swashbuckling through the
streets of Europe and this disturb
'1t!L bf tNi'tM 35%8i5% f(
with here and now as the most seri
ous offense against the law of nations.
"We will wait until we hear what
terms and guarantees the German
Government offer other than those,
better than those, surer th:an those,
which she so lightly broke. And
meanwhile we shall put our trust in
our unbroken army rather than in
broken faith.
"For the moment I do not think it
would be advisable for me to add any
thing upon this particular invitation.
A formal reply will be delivered by
the Allies in the coarse of the next
few lays."
Striking Sentences
The following are a few of the most
striking sentences fro., the latter
part of .Ir. ILloyd George's speech:
"An absolutely new army! The old
had done its duty an i spent itself in
the achievement of that great task.
This is a new army. A year ago it
was ore in the earth of Britain---yea,
and or Ireland. It became iron. It
has passed thro igh the fiery furnace
an-1 the enemy knows that it is now
fine steel.
"An absolutely new army! New
men, new oflcers*' *** many perhaps
nieve'r handled a we'aponi of war.
'"They have faced the greatest armyv
in the world, the gre'atest army th'e
w'.orldl has eve" seen, the best equlip
ped, the best ... 'nedl, ail they have
beaten, beaten them, beaten them a
.'"I have no doubt that the old ( ab
mets wer'e better ad~al.:.d to navigate
the pa rliame1(ntaray rive., with its
shoals and shifting sands, and per
haps, for a (ruise in hiome waters.
But a Cabinet (of twenty-three was
rat her toll-he(avy for ai gale. I do not
say that this new era ft is best adaptd
('d for parzlimenta ry navigation, but I
am nion inced that it is better fort war.
. "You ca n't have absolute equaility
mn sacif ice. In wa r that is impnlos
s ible. But you enn have eqtaml read i -
ne(ss to saicriflice from all. There are
bond relds of thousands who hiave gi v
en theiri lives; there ar m'' nill ions who
have given u p comifortable homles al
exchanged them for (ian y commun1011ionl
with de(ath. .\ ultitudes have given
up) those whom they lovedl best. I.('t
thet natioln as a whole picee its com
forts, its Ituxuries, its indulgenees, its
elegances on the namtionlal altar. I .et
us prioc'lai m dutring the wari a nat ion
alI lent. TIhe' nation wvill b e bet ter'i and
strzonger for it me(ntalIly andI morally
as well as physically.
"Orarm ies have driven the e'nemyi
out (of the bat ter'ed viliages of lFrance
andI across the' de(vastatted plains of
Belgium. They miighlt hurl h im
across the Rlhinle ill baitteired dlisairray.
Buat unllless the nation as a whole
shoulders Part of thle buroen oif vie
toriy it, won't pro'(fit by tile triumpth,
for it is not wvhat a nlationl s:iys, but
wh:it it gives that makes it great."
(Crops Not Damiaged.
Tampa, IDec. I17.-A mlininmum tem
perature of 39 dlegree's here yesterdIay
morlnmg failed to dlamage crops in
this section to any material extent.
Ample warning had been given and
meaisure's wvere taken to protect the
motre tender vegetation onadanger.nl.
GOYfRNGR TO TRY AND
GET SOLDIER BOYS HOME
Chief Executive Answers Petition
From Charleston Mothers Con
cerning Soldier Lads.
IN TOUCH WITH WAt DEPT.
Believed Carolinians Will be Included
in Next Order for Demobi
lization.
Columbia, Dec. 17.-"I am doing
everything possible to insure early
return of troops from border," said
Governor Manning today in a tele
gram to his secretary, O. K. LaRoque,
in response to the teregram sent to
him yesterday advising him of the
petition from the Charleston mothers.
The telegram was sent by the Gov
ernor from Philadelphia where he is
spending the day with relatives be
fore going to New York, where he'
expects to spend Monday and Tues
(lay on personal business. The tele
gram from Governor Manning indi
cates a hope on the part of the chief
executive th:t he will be successful
in securing the early return of the
four units of the South Carolina
Guard now on the bor;er.
'he Governor s telegram is an fol
lows: "Telegram referring to petition
receive:t. 'lease inform petitioners
that I am doing everything possible
to insure early return of troops from
border. I believe they will come soon
bu.,t little or no hope or their return
before ('hristmtas. ihis would be
hardly possible." Governor .danning
hi for some time been in touch with
the War Department. looking to the
early return of the South Carolina
troops and it is the belief that the
Carolinians will be included in the
next or lers for demobilization and
mlust''r out.
Th :.re is no desire on the part of
the Governor to have these men re
turned if there is any possibility of
their services being needed to defend
the nation's honoir but since the dan
ger of a fight seems to have passed
li :he men apirentiy nell Iii camp
fort tr':.riing G;overnor \lannring feels
Ih, Ih, t ;. :1 for their services at
home in thei' usual occ(-'ipations is
aich that he is ,justified in asking
for th''ir ear!y retur':-. The (overnor
is seking to haive tie foaur units re
t-irne. Itogrether wv'hen the orders are
i-sue 1. This mattl'r is left largely to
ith) dii'r'etion of Gen. 1" tnlston, com
ian'in. g(neralI of the southern de..
! irttuent at Fort Sa:n Ilouston,
Texas. A large number of Christmas
boxes have b(Ien f, i'eo.ared by the
'fAk- ac home and -forwnrderl t', 1he
. o1dth C'arolinianis ant 1"; I':s.,
WiT.. MOVE TO A HlltEVlI.L.Et
' .i'laah" 1 It Ui eg:'t I Ile .. irn < I
Louis Levi.
\anniig, ler. f;.--It is a matter
of regret to all the people of Mlan
nm11 that Louiis L evi has decided to
leave this, his native town, and to lo
c:tt ' at A bheviIIc for the further coin
duct of a mercantile business. Al r.
I evi sev':"' ( weeks ago stter(ed heavy
Buss by the burning of his large stock
ot go' Is, b.:t it is not understood
that the tire was the prime reason
fot' his (('isiol) to move from Man
n Mni. Mr. i.evi is one of the vounger
sons of the late loses Levi, the pio
n('1r merchant, who located here when
the toiwln wtas laid ult sixty y'airs ago
all:I who amliassed a fortune and1I raLis
e"I a mo eId family here. L.ouis I.evi
is now eIgagedI ill closing out at auc
tion his salvage'l goo,.; and in a few
wee ks wi!I imove to his new home lIe
will .carry with him the best wishes
of his host of frienis ilere, Who feel
assured(I that he will prove it decided
addition to the mercantiic life of .\b
I..vle an that the faily will be
-core' thain welcome to the'oldI home
oIf Mirs. Levi.
It i.s unlh'.-.stoo( I thatt .\r. l-evi has
so!1 his h:Ilsom.. hiome in Milnninlg
t o l-:. ('. hlorton, mantlager (If t he I". N.
WVIilo musurance' iagency,.- --iumter
WIllI. fI hGlT'l' 11W1Oll'ITION
'a ris-- -(I\' ia l.onl lonl i. tler. I 7.-The
goerayt' inti'nt ilon to pr'ohibit the
wmlet andl spirit denh-r'is. FTe syni.
P'aris to reon~lstraItl' w.th Premier
00.1.A prote('s sit'ne'h by a IPa ris
agr:i.'Iut ltre, as w'Vell ats thle wholi'saIt
an1 1 letaiil dler~I(Is. As iln the case oIf
ainlthe prlohibited s1i(ce If9l5, lde
manto ar( t b nh orsu st nta
!dy niti, fo the newl measuresil l'oesil
io let.bybs A5(i Ile o
Tlhe l( re wllet a'i chIfty allt'. ghi'en
ail th( i ('nrllg (Ifehou- nex'It il Thes-'
<hiyt nigt o thle, purposetil ol raisig
(Ioneyn ao well bakts llof he ndewo
thepoor ThiI e danc edin. wiA spari at
8:30Pe w'llk, guive frishe tbyt exa
hotl behat chari g fom cetsf toosel
fothe do nde, andrl~ $(.0 fre tos
dacin Caplt . '(kt A. 1.' oien saewitl
leadg the' O'harin, i kson's. Slur
Storen 1as1 eleras l'all ofthe n'ew
Cfor itesae h urposg thrgs 50ea'il
charge is Mrs. A rehie Batrro(n and
Miss nnitnie WVene,'r
IED AT
N ON MONDAY NIGHT
IIUORD WARD THE VICTIM
since the afterr.oon before. loweve",
in searching the place the oflicers
found that all of his clothes were
gone, and the fresh tracks in the
yard was conclusive that he h.1d been
there in the early night, as the
gro'.ind bcaune frozen ,fiter inidnight
iinl had he left there after th:t hot:r
his tracks would not have shown. The
:oc.rxt did a elever pie:'e of trailing in
this c::se, as they did not get thei
u :til so hul .Iter the murder er ha I
gone.
Sheriff (iuble will go to any ex
reme to get. this man and we are
satisfied he will suce' "d, as he ger.
er-'ill": does in all cass. The cuora" r
held an inquest, an I the verditt of
the jury was that, "Shuford Ward
came to his death frot a blunt i:.
str'umint .' the hands of .alees Lav. -
son."
'I It is is on' of the most b)!11(:I-curi' -
Ing and <hstardly (rime(s ever knov n
in the history of Claren :on. And tl:e
ctlprit, who enteredf taie home of this
gentleman, while he lay in peaceful
sleep, not dreaming that there waes
such an uncivilized brute in the con
munity, and there crushed his skull,
causing instant death, should he
caught regardless of cost and given,
without any clemency, the limit for
such a crime.
Alr. Waird, we learn was a good
(1itn, a hard worker and tried to save
what little he made. Now for the
sake of getting a few 1iolhars, he was
shiin and robbed.
Since the ahoue was put in type
Lawmiun has been captureid. P'oliceman
.John (Gamnble of Iavis Station and
1u ral P'oliceman I'envy were still on
the watch for hint, and when the train
ptul!ed into the station, they got on
and found Lawson sitting by the
st ove in one oft I ie coaches. Olicer
(imle told him to consiler himself
tinh-r a'esl when he did I.awsoI trot
up with an ion bar in his hand. but.
before hi coulid srt ike, Gamble knock
ed him dow\'n with his pistol and then
he al Otlicer I'eavy took hint and
briia--ht him t( .\ltninltg and placed
himt in jai!. L.awson hal sixty-nine
dollars <m his person when arrtest '1.
'-aiacit:Iteid frlol testifying- in tiet
Ctst. t iieciorder IIariby, alter o\teI
ling fie'eral moiiltiuls of the defent
ant's attiorni'y, directed the jury to
re"turnl a verd'(ict of "not gCui:ty
ne'".inst Williamn Lconar<:, who w'as
bigtri((l on t wo counts for elln
lite ii-jiin itinli ial' toe otie' casrs
h s ni t i-hen d c.'ilei yet, but it is
posib~le that a plardon~ may be 5"'.
i-uredI for the 'letectives so that ther
(:itn testify in the other cases.---Sui
te"r Item.
.\SK -'Oli E-:.RLY D)EA 'IlI
I-lect rociut ion Set for 1'riday (hang ed
to Tu'lesday.
SiSin int N. Y., I )ee. 17.- T e
':ouths sen(tenced1 to he 1exete l' tt
Sing . Sin' prison this week havte \i'
unt tily shotened their lives b\" at
ieast th ri d}ay so tiat. the gr (i if
t!:-i- r':tivt es niy ib <h ulli!l as m au h
- lesi--n h by 'hristmas, it wia. U!.
n(,unced! hetre toie-'h:.
I hey arei St:uley Al 'listein. 1
v<,irs oii, of I'iti:i, whio killed a p'
ei n li. an-' ('h-irles mKi wli . 't'.
1ho hilb-"1 a tl uro tl capIIt-tir inl !:'
.I0 Thei wi-ure ti hiav- Ibeen s
to t Ii ile i cha-i r~ ii lii.a v orii
iepiest thait they be exiecutdTu
la.I o t his, 't was sail, the harelnI
-issenitedl. i~ b eim isciret io-r weih
I .hli-h thi --on-lemn Ie I ye' thi w I .. -' ,
hei put ti idi-th I.
Noi Gronund for ('leme& nev
\\~h i it-o i . ta t- t igh-, t Im he I !i
-the ic'ii If Stanle. .l.l li ls t-i' 'th
!' itn y it 'I tniti d il ki li
p It e 'anl 'ind tin ihos' bli htl- l 're
hdln. \\ ent WINI h)()ke h).V it-I
i tins i-t- ii i intervene. lie is he
'l'ten' 10iiii 'i-ascii -eie 't i Ii ha e
h l ulai ls iif ith th . .\
Mit . : ). ' ~l \\;i s ' lle 11 1:0 b I toI
wel. klightiia t hy e i !io pacel a h li'
iilittiiiiwas go:7 6tiing stll wa.
The win I ni i Ir.la el f -
hliii ias in-cmagb hail itsnheio p t he
w noern: nrtter'anepgrts ofni 'ia -
terdo nt illliaIilclnni|iti~aO -.iera
''\"r wee killed the ct e faligtiih
DASTARDLY MURDER COMMI
DAVIS STATIO
Last Monday night i::r Davis
Station, supposedly at an early hour,
Mr. Shuford Ward, a highly respect
ed and hard working farmer, was
murdered while he lay in bed asleep.
This crime is one of the most cold
blooded and atrocious ever committed
in Clarendon Co.minty. A nephew of
Mr. Ward went over to his house
yesterday morning, an I as Ii walked
in his uncle's room lound him t!ea'
in be 1, wit hhis head beat .in, evi
dently from some blunt in.t ;'uient.
lie then went out and gave the alarm
anl i:i a few minutes a crowd congre
gated to witness this terrible trag
edy. The sheriff was notified and he
at on -e left for the scene. AlMr. Ed.
Gamble followed with his bloodhounds
.ind :oon after arriving, which was
probably sixteen hours after the mur
derer had gone, the dogs struck a
trail .:I fo!!o'.' ! it to th' 1:-ho se of
lames Lawson, colored. After trail
int. through the house and "'mt into
the yard several times, the chase was
given up, as the fresh buggy tracks
was evittence that Lawson got inI a
buggy and rode away. From all re
I .orts this negro bears a bad repu
tation around that, community. Some
Jew <itdys ago he was arrested charg
ed with selling whiskey, but managed
to get bond, and was under bond
when he committed this lienious
crime. It is said that he had tried to
borrow money from several people
arouind hI)vis Station, to leave on.
Mr. Ward leing one he asked fol' a
to:ii, but was refused.
Mr. Ward is supposed to have }ad
between three and four hundred dol
hitrs in his house, and as this negro
was familiar with the place, and
knew he did not loek the doors at
night, waited until he retired. and
enteredl the house with robbery and
murder in his heart. 'lr. Ward's
head was crushed with an axe, as
the bloody axe was ,onid in Law
son's yard, and showed signs of anl
atteinpt to wash the b)Ioo:1 ol'.
When the dogs carried the' sheriff'
to the house of .aiwsont, his wife
was asked where he was, said she did
not know, is she hat not seen him
I'IST SERM'IION BY NE\ PASTOlR
eevd:.iA Inabnet' lleard at the
Spring Street C'hurch.
Sunlay morning to a well-illed
awhll toriumn, the lRev. .J. 1'. Inabnt
preach1'dl his first seron as pastor
of the Spring Street .\lethoudist
churc'h. i'. Inabnet took for his
text the' third chapter of the :\cts of
the Apostles, sixth vers': "Thel
Peter said, silver and golb I have
none; but such as I hiave I give' thee.''
The pastor poilte:i out that under
the itinerant system of the \letho
list Church, he had been sent by the
recent South Carolina ('onferenceh to
this pastoraite; and11 under that sys
tem, like other mlinisters of thle s-i'me
faith, he h1: 11 been accorded no voice
in his :appointment. Hlowever, he said
he was certain that no mistake had
been ladte, aid lie was gtid of the
opportunity of serving in this new
Held.
A fter reviewing the car'er of this
histoie church, Mlr. In~i:mnet retninei.d
his hear'ers of the' fact that 500me of
the greatest figures in South (':trlina
.\ethodism had in the past served as
pastors of the Spring s;treett'hurCh11, .
lie stated, however, that it must he
iha bita s . I f th gl. ob, ss t 1t thi
poete ai ha 't' wi'h. xctylk
any f hs prdecsso ANSi butl i th
I nlaguage of his ilxt, uch atIthvt
MI tgiei t ., n .~niiv I t wt
Thei ti e's es ioft. :tti' tlurha
greatl ph'st 'ave at the 'aet of hain
hrels of' ait stccessful iyeafr cas
t' wlali 0)Ii'i't il'ou r sttur iS i
PENili' ilE .tsti'tt ,Nin iV i
t'r'tn,' p riden tt'of ti tiertyu A
tia ' t'ank' o' til c'ity, wero s tne to
Naw t Y-ork foh t. Paul irtually
pennl is sixteen lot ker aJos, till'
tcome aiepaterii inthe worke i of lt'P
('nns ot'e ten(it.n h wrh
cids vi nchrsn ad eeti fohimto gui
tyno aihm tritorze thefr Astlr
