irrkT yy vn viii. ' : :
WARSHIP SUNK
BY SUBMARINE
British Ship Flimston Fell
Victim to Undersea
Boat
CAPTAIN FRISONER
WITH FIRST ENGINEER
All the Others of the Crew
' Are Reported to Have
Escaped
Brent, Dec. 20. The British warship
Flimston has been sunk by a submarine.
The captain and first engineer were tak
en prisoners. Other of the crew es
caped, VERDUN REGION
IS STILL ACTIVE
WITH ARTILLERY
French War Office Announced that Night
Engagements Were Most Spirit
ed Near touvemont and
Chambrettes.
Paris. Doe. 20. Heavy artillery light
ing continues on the. Verdun front, the
war office announced this afternoon. Dur
ing the night engagements were most
spirited in the vicinity of Louvemont and
Chambrettes.
FOOD RESTRICTION
IN ENGLAND FAILS
People Order Several Servings of Some
Course or Go from One Restaurant
to Another Till Supplied.
London, Dee. 20. According to some
newspapers, two days' experience with
the food control measure, which regu
lates the number and nature of the
courses served in hotels and restaurants
has been sufficient to prove it futile.
They say not only has it failed to check
consumption, but in many instances it
has increased it. It is claimed there is
no supervision and many customers, find
ing they can indulge in several servings
of the same dish without having more
than one course counted against them,
have availed themselves of this loophole.
Moreover, there is nothing to prevent
anyone taking a succession of meals at
different places. The papers urge food
tickets or a tax on hotel and restaurant
bills, as in Paris.
FIGHT TO LAST MAN
And to the Last Shilling, Says Marquis
of Crewe.
London. Dec. 20. In the House of
Lords yesterday the marquis of Crewe, f
the government leader, said: "We mustj
carry on the war to the last man, to tne
last shilling."
Lord Curzon presenting the new cab
inet's policy in the House of Lords said:
"The policy of the new government is
that the war must be conducted with the
utmost prosecution, that there must be
mi ample return for all sacrifices, that
full reparation must be made by the en
emy for his countless crimes and that se
curity must be given that those crimes
shall' not be repeated and that the sacri
fices made shall not be in vain."
VASSAR PRESIDENT DEAD.
Dr. James Monroe Taylor Had Been in
Poor Health for Months.
Xew York, Dec. 20. Dr. Janiea Monroe
Taylor, president emeritus of Vassar col
lege, died last night at the hotel here,
where he had been ill only about a week.
He was 68 years old.
Dr. Taylor had not been in good health
for the last four months, but his condi
tion was not considered alarming. He
caught a severe cold a few days ago and
pneumonia developed. A widow, a
daughter, three sons, a sister and broth
er survive him.
Dr. Taylor was the fifth president of
Vassar college. He was born in Brook
lyn, X. Y., Aug. 5, 1848, and received
his early education there. He was grad
uated from the University of Rochester
in IMS and three years afterwards com
pleted his course at the Rochester Theo
logical seminary. For two years he
traveled and studied in Europe, then he
accepted a call to the Baptist church at
South Norwalk, Conn., and in 1882 went
to Providence, R. I., where he remained
until his election in 1886 as president of
Vassar.
MANY MINERS RESCUED.
And Only Two Died After Explosion at
Bruceville, Ind.
Hruceville, Ind., IVc. 20. Two miners
are dead and 15 injured as the result of
a gas explosion in the Oliphant-Johnson
mine near her yesterday. One hundred
Hnd fifty men 'were entombed by the
blast, but first aid crews from nearby
mines gave early assistance and the
workings were cleared in about four
hours. Pulmotors revived mote than 5(1
who had been overcome by gas. The
15 injured are expected to recover. State
officers ar investigating the cauie of the
explosion.
FELL FROM ROOF.
Edward Ploof of Richford Wat Injured
Internally.
Ricfcfard, Dec. 20. Edward Tloof, who
his been working on the new Kichfonl
b'gh school building fell a distance of
49 feet from the roof of the new build
in? to the ground. He was working on
the roof laving date and in some way
si ppe4 aad'friL He is injured internal
ly, but cot considered seriously.
THE
' .'- .u,ufKnMOXT. WKUSKSDAV; DKCKMHEK 80. 101. ' '" '
,
FORMAL REPLY TO PEACE
PROPOSALS EXPECTED
Further development in the
peace movement in Europe now
await the presentation of the
formal reply of the entente allies
to the proposal of the central
powers. Llovd-George, the British
premier, and Premier Iliiand of
France have indicated that this re
ply will be speedily forthcoming.
The military operation in En
rol are at a 'low pbb. The driv
ing campaign of Von Maekcnscn in
Rumania seems nearly at an end
and the report shows comparative
quiet in this war theatre. On tho
Franco-Belgian front also there W
lull, while the latest reports
from both the Russian and the
Austro ltalian fronts show little
but artillery duels and skirmishes.
In Macedonia rain and fog are in
terfering with the nitrations.
PEACE PROPOSAL SCORED.
Former Premier Asquith Also Congratu
lates Lloyd-George.
London, Dec. 20. The former premier,
Mr. Asquith, after declaring that his first
dnty was to extend congratnlations,
which he did with all his 'heart, to Mr.
Lloyd-George on his accession to the
highest and most important office in the
service of the crown, made a brief but
pointed reference to the question of
peace.
"The country," he said, "has just re-
cciveu some su-caiieu .t-mo
from Germany. True, these proposals
are wrapped up with the familiar dia
Int of Prussian arrogance. Hut how
comes it after two years of war that a
power which professes itself conscious of
military superiority and ultimate vic
tory begins to whisper -nay, even to
shout so that all the world can hear
the word 'Peace'?
"Is this from a sudden access of chiv
alry? When did the German chancellor
become so sensitive to tho dictates of
humanity?
"We must look elsewhere for the ori
gin of the proposals. They are born of
military and economic necessity, not a
shame-faced peace. There must be no
patched up, precarious compromise. It
must be a peace which achieves the pur
pose for which we entered the war. Such
a peace we would gladly accept. Any
thing short of it we are bound to repudi
ate by every obligation of honor and,
abovc'all, by the debt we owe those who
have given 'their lives to the cause.
"I see nothing in the note front Ger
many which gives me the least reason to
believe that they are prepared to give
i,n reparation and security. If they
in such a mood, if they are prepared to
give us reparation for the past and se
curity for the future, let them say so."
Mr. Asquith in congratulating Mr.
Lloyd-George said that if he spoke from
where he did it . was not because he
claimed to be the leader of the opposi
tion. Opposition there was none, and his
ono trreat desire was to place at the dis-
posal of the government whatever expe
rience he possessed, he said.
TURKEY IS WILLING.
Either for Peace or For War, Says For
eign Affairs Minister.
Berlin, Dec. 20, via wireless to Say
ville. The Overseas News agency yes
terday gave out for publication a Con
stantinople dispatch containing a speech
of the Turkish minister of foreign af
fairs, Hall Bey, before Parliament, deal
ing with a recent address made before
the Russian Duma by Prime Minister
Trepoff concerning the agreement be
tween the entente allies with regard to
the disposition of Constantinople after
tho war.
. "The Russian Minister Trepoff," Hall
Bey is quoted as having said, ''considered
it necessary after the break down of
Punianift.
to. delude, the Uownneartea
Rimsian neonle bv holding before their
eyes a dream of the conquest of Constan
tinople. He declared that France and
England had agreed with Russia to sup
port Russia's despotism over Constanti
nople, and that the Russian people must
know why they were shedding their
blood. ' .
"We have not the habit of bragging.
We answer the fantastic ideas of Trepoff
with a. reality of facts, and we thank
God that He has allowed our flags to
wave victoriously n
the Kumanian
passes-that is, on th. slior est roaa
from Russia to Constantinople. They
commenced this war drunk with ambi
tious pretensions and pursuing fantastic
plans. We fight and we march on the
way of truth and will continue to do so,
confiding in the Almighty and supported
by the force of our army and sacrifice
of our nation. We are ready for peace
but are prepared for war."
TESTING FISH LAW.
To Determine Right of Land Owners to
Keep Up Posters.
Woodstock, Dec. 20. In Windsor coun
ty court yesterday W. E. Mack, a well
known farmer of Woodstock, was found
guilty of mantaining posters on his land
in violation of the fish and game law.
The penalty is not severe, being a line
of $10 for each illegal poster, but the af
fair is of much interest, being, it is un
derstood, a test case and bo far as known
here the 3ret of the kind brought into
the courts of the state.
The defendant admitted maintaining
posters prohibiting fishing, long after he
had ceased stocking his brook, but
claimed that as they did not give the
date of stocking the waters, as the law
requires and were therefore ineffective,
he was committing no offense. He was
merely trying to scare people away.
GOES TO SOUTH RVEGATE.
Rey. F. A. Collins Resijned Pastorate ia
Greensboro.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 20. Rev. F. A.
Collins, who recently resigned as pastor
of the Greensboro Webj terian church,
left to-day for South Ryegate, where he
! nal accepted a call.
The pulpit at the Greensboro church
will be supplied by a pstor from Penn
sylvania until a "permanent pastor is
called.
Bellows Falls Achieves a Record.
Bellow. Falls, Dec 20. The l.fxth
marriage licrse was isud yceterdsy by
Ton Ocrk L. F. Have.
BARUE DAILY
COULD FIGHT
"ETERNALWAR"
Germany Could Not Be Con
quered, Says Berlin
Taper
IN COMMENTING ON
LLOYD GEORGE SPEECH
Says the British Premier Is
Trying to Postpone
Europe's Desire
Amsterdam, via London, Dec. 20.
Commenting on Lloyd-George's speech,
the Berlin Ikal Anr.eigcr takes the view
that the premier's remarks about repara
tion are of no value inasmuch as nothing
has Ik'cii said thus far about peace condi
tions. , .
The newspaper then continues: U
Lloyd-George means to postpone satisfy
ing Europe's desire for ac until the
time when the entente is successful in
conquering Germany' armies and those
of her allies, then the whole of Europe,
as well as Llovd-George, knows full well
that this announcement means eternal
w ar unless it is in the power of the Ger
man command to bring it to an earlier
termination than Lloyd-George sup-
The Socialist newspaper Vorwaerts
Mv: "Llovd-George say that whoever
wantonly prolongs the war will have the
crime upon his soul. Do not these words
imply strong self-condemnation if Eng
land' rejects the negotiation offered by
the central powers?"-
BRITISH PUBLIC
SET TO THINKING
Mobilization of Labor Was the Feature
of Lloyd-Gccrge's Speech that
Called Jorth Greatest
Attention.
London, Dec. 20.-The British public
bad much to reflect on this morning. 1 he
...t i,n,w,rtnt nomt in tne domestic
, foresi,ttdowed by the premier
nt labor. Lead
ers were dubious of the success of the
scheme, feeling that the outcome de
pends entirely on how the workmen take,
it If there is hostility in the rank and
file of organized labor, labor leaders be
lieve the. scheme will fail.
The fact that the premier passed
straight from 'Ireland to the imperial
conference suggests that he "hopes to find
a olution of the Irish problem in i this
conference. The government probably
will require the whole eight weeks of
the parliamentary recess to produce the
measures foreshadowed which also in
clude more drastic dealing with excess
profits and increase in food production.
Lloyd-George's address was as follows:
! rncat upon thi. or any other country and
the issue the irrvetntn.
to nay conBict in which humanity a ever
'"nf'responsibilitie. of the new government
have been suddenly accentuated by he decla
ration made by the Orman chancellor. The
Element made by him in the Kc.ch.U.t ha.
t:!' oPrTo e an!
, .-v,n by th government wUl be siven In
luJ accord with an our a. nr..
Naturally, there has been an interchange oi
views, not upon the note, Because ""''
recently arrived, but upon ,the speech which
'milled it, and a. the note itself practi
cally only a reproduction or a paraphrase of
the speech, the subject matter of the t.ita.lf
ha been discussed informally bf" th
lies. I am triad to be able to state that we
each separately and independently arrived at
identical conclusions. .
I am very Klad that the first answer given
to the statement of the Herman chancellor w.s
given by Fr.nce and Russ.a. They have the
unguestion.ble rivrht to Rive the first answer
to such an invitation. The enemy "
their soil and their acrihce have been the
rw f !
j "The answer tney nave a-n ..-
red , th. i-na.
statement they have already made.
"Any mnn or set of men who wantonly or
without suflicient cause prolong a terrible con
flict like this would have on hi aoul a crime
that ocean could not close.
On the other hand, it I equally true that
any man or set oi men wno iron, -wcarimw
or despair abandoned the truinrle
without achieving the hiith purpose for which
we entered it would De g-umy oi m ". "."
act of poltroonery ever nerpeiraiea bj
statesman. 1 should like to quote the words of
Abraham Lincoln under similar conditions:
"We accepted this war for an object
and a world object, and the war will end
when the object is attained under God. I
hope it will never end until that time.
"Are we likely to achieve the object by ac
cepting the invitation of the German chancel
lor 7 W hat are me propui i
"one.
"To enter, on the Invitation or Germany,
proclaiming herself victorious, without any
knowledge of what proposals she propose to
make, into a conference la to put our heads
into nooee with the rope end In the hand of
Germany. , ,
"Thi eountrv ia not altogether without ex
perience in the matter. This is not the first
h fmiirht a great military despotism
overshadowing Europe, and it won't be the
first time we have helped to overthrow a mili
tary despotism. W'e have an uncomfortable
historical memory of these thing and can re
call one of the greateat of the deepoU who
favorite device wa to appear in the garb of an
angel of peace, either when he wished time to
assimilate his conquest or to reorganise hi
force for fresh conquest or, econdly, when
his aubjecta showed symptom of fatigue and
war-wearinea. an appeal wa always made in
the nam of humanity. He demanded an end
to the bloodshed at which he professed himself
horrified although he himself wa mainly re
sponsible. ....
"Our ancestor were taken in once, and bit
terly the and Europe rue It. The time waa
devoted to onraniiing hi force for a deadlier
attack than ever upon the libertie of Europe.
Example of thi kind eaiase u to regard
thi note with a considerable measure of remi
niscent disquietude.
We feel that we ongnt w Know oeiorw we
iv favorable consideration to
auca an
imitation that (ersisnr prepared to cced.ij,,,. j,aj ,hpr1 for H year.
to tne only term on " H " -
ran be obtained and maintained in Europe.
TtKwe term hve been repeatedly etated by all
th leading statesmen of the allies. They he
beea stated repeatedly here and ouUHt. To
quote the leader of th House last weeks
- Reparation and raarantew against
tvpetitioR so there shall he no maitake. and
St is important that there should he no
ir.i-t.ke ia a matter f life or death to
lliiton.
" I-t wr reft Cowiplet restitution,
fnll reparation and eflertual guarantee-'
"I4 tne (rus chawreiior tape a amgla
t hrase to ileal tiat a waa rc.4 ia
iccrpt such a peace Wa. h,lnt '
rltitutiun? Was there .
ration? Wa there an Implication of any se
,uy for th. future, that thi. utr.w
clviliiatlon would not airain be perpetrated at
the Hrat prolltahle opportunity J
The very ...balance and atyle of the .peeeh
constitute. denial of pea.-. " the only
on which neact la potble. He at
coii.c-I.sj. now that liermany ha. '""
any offen.e asaln.t the triirhts of free nation..
-Not for an Instant have they (the central
no we rat awerved Irom toe ran '
inert of the riahU of other nationa a not in
any doirree Incompatible with their own rishU
and legitimate intereat.'
"Whin did they discover thb Where w.
respect for the right, of other nation, in Bel
Itium and Serbia ? That a lf-drfns. men
aced. I auppuae. by the overwlwlmln armies
of llelieium. I .uppos the Germans had been
intimidated Into Invadin Belirium and burn ni
llelvium citiea mi villairea. Into nia.arreln
thou.anda of the Inhabitant, old and younit.
into rarrylmr off the aurvivoni Into botidaae.
Yea. and they were earrylra- them Into alavery
at the very moment when thla note waa writ
ten about their unewervlna- eonvictlon aa to
the reipert due the rlahta of otiier nation..
Are theae oi.lraire. the letjitlmato intereat
of Germany? We mit know. That la not a
moment for pear " till k,nd 'or
palpable crime can be put forward two and a
half year, after expoaure by the itnm face, la
there any guarantee that a.milar ubterfuire.
will not be ued In the future to overthrow
any treaty of peace you may enter Into with
Pru.Man militarism? .... t
The note and aueech prove that they have
not yet learned the alphabet of reapect for the
right, of other.
Without reparation, peace la Impoa.ible.
Are all these outraire aifainat humanity on
land and aea to be liquidated by few ploua
phraaea about humanity? Germany leavea u.
to exact the damaK for all future violence
committed after the war. We muiit nM t
now, ao a not to leave auch s grim inherit
ance to our children.
'Much a we all lona- for peace, deeply aa we
are horrifled with wni, thia note and peeeh
which heralded it do not afTord ua much en
cooraKeinent to rope for an honorable and
laMina- pence. a .
What hope at arlvt-n In the speech that the
whole root and cue of thi. great bitterne.,
the arrowant pirit of the Fruian military
caste, will not be a dominLit a. ever if we
patch up peace now? The very .peeeh in
which these peace iu retion are made re
ounda U the bnaat of Pruwian military tri
uniph. It I. a long pa-n over the victory of
Von Hindenburg.
"Vim mu.t Veep a eteadfa.t eye upon the
purpose for which we entered the war; other
wie the great aacrifice we have been making
will be in vain. The Germnn note etatea that
it waa for the defenae of their existence and
of national development that the
i ra wen constrained to take up
arm. Such phraae are Intended to delude
the German nation Into .upponing me on
of the I'riian military caste. Who aver
i- n .ml tn their national exist-
,.- (rdnin of development t W wel
comed their development o cng a It waa on
the path, of peace.
"The alliea entered thi. war to defend Eli
rone aa-ainst the ainrreaslon of Prussian mili
tary domination and having begun it they
mu.t insist that th3 only end l the most com-..I-.-
DtmrnntM- airainst the noH.ibility
of that caste ever (nil disturbing the peace of
Kurope. Prussia, aince she got into tne nana
of that raate. ha been a b-i neighbor, arro
gant, threteninp. bullying, .hitting her bound-
k.. m mil tuliine one field after an
other fr'm her wetiker neighbor, and adding
them to her own dominions.
with her belt ostentntiou.ly full of weapons
of offense and ready at a moment', notice to
use them, she ha always been an unpleasant,
disturbing neighbor in Europe. She got thor
oughly on the nerves of Europe; there was no
peace near where she dwelt. It is difficult for
tho who are fortunate enough to live mou
sar.d of mile away to understand what it ha
meant to thine who live near.
"Even here, with the protection of the brod
sea between ns. we know what a disturbing
factor the Prussian were with their constant
n.vnl menace. Put we can hardly rcalite
what It mean to France and Russia. Several
time there were threat directed against them,
even within the lifetime of this generation,
which pratented the alternative of war or hu
milistion. There were many of us who hoped
that the internal influent in Germany would
be strong enough to check and ultimately to
eliminate It. ... .
"Now that thi grent war ha been forced by
the Prussian leader, it would be folly not to
hc o it tht thi swashbuckling through the
streets of Kurope and this disturbance of peace
ful ritiien ws dealt with here and now as
the most serious offense against the law of
nation. , .
"We will wait until we hear what terms and
guarantee the German government offer other
than those, better than those, surer than those,
which she o HKhtly broke. And meanwhile we
shall put our trust in our unbroken army,
rather than In broken faith
"For the moment I do not think it would be
advisable for me to add anything upon this
n.rticular Invitation. A formal reply will be
delivered by the alliea In the course of the next
few days."
NEW RHODES SCHOLAR.
Thomas K. Penniman, Graduate of Mid
dlebury College, Chosen,
Rurlington, Dec. 20. Thomas Kenneth
renniman, who was graduated with the
class of 1SH5 from Middlebury college, at
a meetinsr of the Rhodes scholarship com
mittee of this state, held at the Hotel
Vermont yesterday, was awarded the
Rhodes scholarship from Vermont at Ox
ford university, England, for the three
years beginning October, 1017. Renniman
was chosen from four "Rndidates who
passed the qualifying examinations.
The members of the committee present
were President Guy Potter Rcnton of the
I'niversity of Vermont, President John
M. Thomas of Middlebury college and
Bishop A. C. A. Hall.
Thomas K. Penniman, who was ap
pointed yesterday, was graduated from
Middlebury college with last year's class
with the degree of A. B. He is a member
of the Phi Beta Kappa society and Delta
Kappa Epsilon fraternity, and at the
present time holds the position of prin
cipal of the high school at Conway, Mass.
He is the son of Thomas and Mary Pen
niman of Meriden, Nr. H. The other can
didates who appeared yesterday were
Carroll Of. Ross of Peacham. Middlebury
college, '13;' Frank II. Tousley. a former
Vermonter. a graduate from Tufts col
lege and who is now studying law at Co
lumbia university, and Phil R. .Tohnon
of ft. Albans, a junior at the University
of Vermont.
renniman will take up his studies at
Oxford next October. The two men from
Vermont now there are .Tames H. Wilson,
class of 1011, and Raymand L. Grismer,
class of 1915, University of Vermont.
BOTH DENY STEALING.
And Assert They Will Be Married in
Spite of Interference.
Bellows Falls, Dec. 20. Chief Inspec
tor Michael D. Sullivan and Patrolman
Patrick Cawlcy of Gloucester, Mass., ar
rived yesterday and took back to
Gloucester Charles Michael and Miss
Rose Joseph of that town, who were ar
rested here Monday just after they had
secured a Gretna Green marriage licen-e.
The young people arc charged with
stealing" $3"0 in money and $iO) worth
of jewelry from the girl's mother. When
arrested Michael had $31.50 in money
nd all of the jewelry the girl had was
two bracelets wwich a local jeweler
fated were worth f25 when new and
about SM as old gold. She states she
Both of the young people deny thatl.Tamcs Murphy, Mrs. Jack Little, Mrs.
they stole anything and claim the girl s iAlden Jewett, Lester Sjoddard. Jay
mother took "this means of preventing i Sweet and Mr. and Mrs. W . IL Norm.
the mnrriage to which she has been op
posed.
They both declare that they will le
married in spite of the interference by
the police. Chlrf Sullivan is of a dif
.i miininn at he claims the irirl is
rw.t jet 16 vears old. She stales that
she is almost 22. v
rm
WOULD INJURE
U.S. TRADE
If British Mercantile Marine
Should De Taken Over by
British Government
AMERICANS FEEL
SOME CONCERN
Over One of the Propositions
Advanced by Lloyd
George Washington, D. C, Dee. 20. The na
tional association of Hritish shipping,
mentioned briefly by Lloyd-George as one
OI 1110 lirl BCl Ul mo O" ,i.n..T.j , i
commands inure interest here from a
.i i!-... ..... . ..r iiiinulrv
Mlrictlv American noint of view than
nny other phusa of the premiers speech.
The taking into the national service of
tlm ulmln mercantile marine, it was
tho United States can do should tne
whole Hritish merchant marine tie with
drawn from American trade and har
bors. It is thought the effect on the sub
marine question would lie to remove the
confusion between public vessels not en-
titled to any guarantees an.I private
vessels entitled to warning, and provis
ion for safety of those on board.
STORE DAMAGED BY WATER.
Christmas Goods at Middlebury Were
Deluged.
Middlebury. Dec. 20. The store of
George Champagne on Main street was
flooded at an early hour yesterday morn
ing owing to a break in a water pipe in
the Battell block. Otlicer George Moore
heard the sound of water running and
upon investigation found' that it was
coming from the second lloor. Mr. Cham
pagne was notified and with the assist-,
ance of the oflicer broke into another
part of the building and shut the water
off. The store was tilled with Christ-
loss will amount to between 4W ana
$300.. There was no insurance.
SCARLET FEVER QUARANTINE.
Ha Been Established at Montgomery
Center; Cases are Mild.
Montgomery Center, Dec. 21. All chil
.lr,.n inwli.r is tears old are Quarantined,
as there are several case, of scarlet fe-
ton, secretary 01 tne state uumu
health. Dr. R. D. Worden reports that
the disease is taking a mild form.
The schools are closed for the holidays
and children will oe Kept at men
homes. On account ot tne quarantine
regulations, there will be no Christmas
exercises at the local churches.
DIED OF SKULL FRACTURE.
Edward Godfrey Received Injury at
- Windsor Monday.
Windsor, Dec. 20. Edward Godfrey,
40 years, died last night at the National
Acme Manufacturing company's hospi
tal in this town as the result of a frac
tured skull. He was injured Monday at
his rooming house, Fitts' inn, when he
fell down a flight of stairs.
Mr. Godfrey, who came here from Kan
lolph, was employed by the National
Acme company
He was unmarried.
TALK OFJTIIE TOWN
Mr. and Mrs." A. M. Cutler of Korth
field were among the business visitors
in the city this morning.
Mrs. John Hoban and daughter left
this noon for Claremont, X. tl., where
they will spend Christmas with relatives.
Sam Matson of Keith avenue leit-this
noon for Concord, X., H., where he will
visit relatives until after the Christ
mas holidays.
John Knnis of Richmond arrived in the
, r . ..: f .... I A-m
citv yesteruay ior a isii, vi r.ri:i,
in the home of his brother, Edward i-n-nis,
of North Main street.
Mrs. O. M. Ditson, who has been vis
iting at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
Alland Stoddard of East Brookfield,
passed through the city to-day, while en
route to her home in Orford, X. II.
A special meeting of the Vermont
Poultry association will be held in the
court room at city hall this evening at
7:30 o'clock. Matters pertaining to the
shipment of poultry on Christmas day.
the day before the opening of the annual
show in Barre, will be discussed and all
memliers are urged to attend.
Members of the Barre Checker club
are busy in making preparations for Cue
coming "match at Burlington to be held
during the latter part of this month.
Several are planning to attend the games
this vear. For several years members
of the Barre club have held the board,
but it was lost the year before last and
none of the members attended the games
last vear. This year there are several
new members and the game has seemed
to take on more spirit than has been
manifested for some time.
Among the East Brookfield and h-
Hums! own visitors and shoppers yester -
day and to-day are iir. anu -Mrs.
Rummer, Mr. and Mrs. J. Eldri.lge, Mr.
and Mrs. Mark Stoddard, Mr. and Mrs.
Elmer Amsden, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Martin. Mr. and Mrs. Albert Davis,
Frank MeConnclI. Charles Angell, Mrs,
PLAINFIELD.
tnristmas exerc.w a v.......
and a box supper will be given at he
. r1...: tmal ftTM
King school house Dec; . 21. 1 hnraa-y
etening at 8 o'tkx k
bons.
Ladies plea- orinjj
thought by nllicitus si iirsi. giam e, wuu.u i. ,- ' " , . , :,.,;.!
turn overagrctt majority of the world's counted upon to poll heavy ma unties
carrying trade to specific war purposes, for no license 1?JZ
Nevertheless there is in law nothing i license, many Vf them of a substantial
... . t .1 i.. l ..-Atsi.i vndiiii.titiiii ii mi rii'f w ii it u tin
.1 . Iulr,.. ru,tT inn rvf uilb'h U't'M i
mas goous, i i i 'of court over winch duel -lustice txv.
badly damaged Ihe floor was covered ; w. M he ,iavinp- .
with several inches of water and it took; " jntent'ion of retiring, and it
several hours to clean things up. ihe ... . . Ut. first term ot court to be
IMES
1 -. . w -w-i
BOSTON STAYS "WET"
BY BIG MAJORITY
Total Vote Was the Largest Ever Cast
on Liquor Issue and the No-License
Vote Fell Off.
Huston, Dec 20. Huston yesterday
voted to continue the licensed sale of
liipiur after the liveliest campaign on the
litpior iiielioii that the city has huJ ill
year. The vote in favor of license was
.VM.W. with 2H.IW7 aflainst. Last year
the vote for license was 4U.11 J, and 31,
H77 against.
The total vote was the ' larjct ever
cast here on the license nuestion and the
majority of 2:Mii! for license ha been
exceeded only thretf times in the city's
history.
The liquor question overshadowed all
other issues in the campaign, and both
the license and no-license followers were
renreM' nted bv manv worker in virtual
ly every precinct. Hundreds of convey
auccs were used to carry voters to the
polls.
Tt..v. William A. Sunday, who is con
ductinp; an evangelistic campaiRn here,
took a prominent part in the fiirht. He
delivered several addresses on the liquor
i-.sne and urged the voters who attend
ed
! lug meetings to vote "So." Tho Mas-
chusetts Anti-Saloon league sent out
I mil
-- --- - ' fr,r..o
thousands of circulars and kept a lone
of orators busy for wccks.
No-license workers were at a loss to
explain the decrease in the "No" vote
from last year's figures. Suburban and
urn
nut nrn
Four members of the city council and
two school committeemen were chosen.
No-license, advocates gained two new
vi-t.nrie in the four municipalities out
side of Hoston holding elections jester-
! . .. . , 1 I C-.r. "tVI't
t uay. .win ahii ... .... -
to'the "dry" column for the first time in
20 years, and Fitchburg turned last
vear's license majority of 72 into a no-
license margin of 84. Peabody ana vuin
cv remained in the "dry" column.
'With the last of the 37 city elections
in the state now decided, the "dry" forces
this year have added six cities to their
list and have not lost any.
51 CASES LISTED
For Trial at January Term of Vermont
Supreme Court.
Fifty-one cases are on the trial calen
dar of the January term of supreme
court, which opens Tuesday morning,
Jan. 2. in the Washington county court
house. Jt will probably tie the last term
held in tho county courthouse since
annex to the State House was built.
Following is the list of cases set for
Windham countyJohn G. Sargent,
attorney general of Vermont, vs. Central
Vermont railroad, appeal from public
service commission; Bufus E. Brown, at
torney ceneral. vs. Rutland Railroad Co.,
"uc A ,i tie
Hailwav Co.. State vs. M. Ilirscli, lot
tery.
Windsor county Mary W. O'Connor
vs Charles F. Guild, petition for new
iriol. Uarv J. Remolds vs. Lee Bean,
ejectment; 'in re intoxicating liquor. Adam
Pavloskv, claimant; state vs. Auam
icL-v keonimr: Rawleigh company vs.
Pierce, Hazen and Huntley, petition for
new trial.
Bennington count v Tn re estate of W .
R. Morgan, H. D. Fillmore, adm., estate,
Mason C. Morgan, claimant. Fanny T.
Morgan, adm., estate William R. Morgan,
apt., appeal from probate.
Rutland county Gustavus A. Haskms
vs. U. S. Weaver, negligence; Wallace
Colt on and Marcia B. Colton vs. William
W. Smith, common counts.
Addison county Arthur C. Barnard
vs. Richard H. Leonard, contract; Jo
sephine Ward vs. Alice Ward and trus
tee, Burlington Savings bank.
Chittenden county The Old Bee Hive
and Bauman and Sperling, apt., the J. W.
McAuslan Co.. trustee; Annie K. Auclair
vs. Fred Bushy, apt., assumpsit ; V estern
Telephone Co. vs. John K. Uvelle. bill
and injunction; Adelaide B. Hill vs. Bur
lington Traction Co.. negligence; Eticn
na Latulip vs. Citv of Burlington, neg
ligence; William f. McGraw vs. frank
E. Eldred. apt.; J. H. May vs. S. fc.
Pope; Porter Screen Manufacturing to.
vs Central Vermont Railway Co.; Spool
ing & Winding Co. vs. O. L. Hinds Co.,
aiGrand Isle county William J. Jones
vs. Samuel Hoag and Ida Hoag, bill and
injunction.
Franklin county Eva rtson K. Smith
vs K. H. Martin and S. H. Martin: m re
John J. Keenan. dislmrment proceedings:
David Baker vs. .Calvin Rnshford and
Ella Rushford; State vs. Frank E. Re
mis. . , .
Orleans county Charles W. Hitchcock
vs. George Kennison: George A. Humph
rey vs O A. Wheeler, tort; Frank Hol
br'ook 'vs. E. A. Tlurnix and trustee;
William Robey vs. Boston & Maine rail
road. ,
Caledonia county Herman D. Webster
and Sherburn Lang vs. Luth.r D. Harris,
general assumpsit; the Continental Jew
elry Co.. apt., vs. Estate of David Fre
chette, appeal from commissioners; Leon
Dane vs. Xeouia Bean, writ of error;
John E. Harris, apt., vs. William E. Bail
ey general assumpsit; Ma Me Bentley
vs. U S. Robie and Pearl Mayton; State
vs. Joseph Pilver. selling.
Orange eoiintv State vs. Dan Nelson,
burglary; Ellen R. Sanders vs. Marion
Burnham. .
Washington count v Tennie M. lut
tin vs. John A. J. Cutting: J. J. Good
win vs. Barre Savings Bank Trust Co.
ral assumpsit; Nate l-. t omns et ai
. f iiarr. I.ewU D. Bancroft et
. . . -
iM arrived in the ritv la-t etemng
Ma ar -
;"- T : of vorth ,.i.
.-.-.
street.
al vs. W. Eldri.lge ail; Azro fillly left the matter to tne tr.ft
adm.. vs. Hiram ii. Woodruff; Boston 4 j itt ,nd the building inspector
Maine railroad vs. Union Mutual Fire r the request, subject to tlm
insurance Co.: Alice H. Phillip vs. Harry v,i nf the chairman and inspector.
Al. Cutler: Xatte D. Page vs. Thomas H. . Th,rnu(,h , inspector's report J. B. San
Cave, jr, adm.. et al; Frank M. CorTy, i inpl,i , given a permit to make re
trnstee, and CharM I. Nye r. Barre io the roof of his polling mill
Granite Quarry Co.. et al; Henry W-!;n) jUrr & t,ordon received permission
Knight vs. Arthur W. Macn. il et al. ftf rrR,t two building annexes.
W iring permits were granted the fol-
Thomas Tomasi. a student in the den-j l ing appli-ants: John Berinsto, U in
tal school at Tnfts collie, Medford. .,.11 14 temporary
MORE FIREMEN
ARE PRCvSED
The Fire Cor -tee Recom-'
mends A' of Two
Men4 epartment ,
V
ALTHOUGH FOUR MORE
SAID TO BE NEEDED
City Council Proposes
Borrow Money at 4
Per Cent.
to'
Two additional men for the regular
manual force at the lire station, tenta-
'tjve prP,arati0ns for the purchase of a
rrush,r to rost jn tho n, iKn-
liorhood of $1,000 and the authorization
of a $2n,ftfl0 loan to meet water lionds
due in 1917 were among the larger items
figuring in the proceedings of the city
council at its regular session last night.
Provisions for increasing the force of
regular firemen were incorporated in a
recommendatory report brought in bv
the tire committee. It developed that the
department could handle four more men
advantageously, but a desire to keep the
finances of the departments well within
Inmnds appeared to prompt the council
to move cautiously. Alderman Reynolds,
one of the sponsors for the report, ami
Alderman Rossi discussed the propriety of
classifying the new firemen as pipemen
or drivers, and other members of tho
council concurred with Mr. Reynolds in
the opinion that assisaiments could bo
made after the examination and that tho
chief should tie consulted in disposing
the departmental employe. ExamiiM
tions will I! held within a fortnight.
Money for the water bonds is to bo
borrowed from the Farmers Loan &
Tmst Co. of Xew York at a rate of 4 per
cent. In anticipation of the needs of
1017, the finance and water committees
were authorized to investigate the money
market last July, when it. was voted to
meet the bonds through a loan. The
resolution to borrow from the Xew York
bankers mentioned was adopted unani
mously and the money will be in hand
July 1, 1917.
The Crusher Deal.
Chairman Glysson of the street com
mittee reported a conference with a rep
resentative of the Xew England Farm
Machine Co. in the matter of a new stone,
crusher and before the discussion ended
the company's agent was introduced. Ha
quoted a price of $1.S00 with a deduction
of at least ?."00 for the crusher now m
use. It was observed by those familiar
with the recalcitrant habits of the pres
ent machine that its days of usefulness
are about over and no one gathered
around the board could be found to gam
sav the Heed of a new apparatus. Claims
made by the agent for the Xew England
machine were corroborated in a set of
blue prints and a picture of the crusher
which the council may buy. If the deal
is put through, the city will build tho
i.s ,irinrr the winter. After adjourn
ment, the street committee having been
instructed to investigate and bring in
recommendations and specifications at
the next meeting, got down to business
with the agent.
Miscellaneous Matters Considered.
Communications from Charles H.
Thompson, representative of the Central
Power Co., referred in one instance to
hw purpose to meet the council either
last evening or at the meeting next week.
second letter contained his regrets at
bein"- unable to be present and asked
that a copy of the franchise as drafted
bv the council be furnished him in order
that he may consider it in conference
with his board of directors. Both communication-
were accepted.
apeciafiv constituted unit known aj
the sweater "committee with its principal
office at citv hall and created for the ex
press purpose of passing the buck hied
report in which it recommended that the
matter of the alleged sweater theft, once
buried alive In the pockets of the prop
erty committee, be referred to the cit
attorney. The report was accepted. The
sweater" referred to was the property ot
the clerk of the city court and is said to
have been the same garment that act
resses, temporarily quartered inth J court
room early in the fall, appropriated to
their own uses.
Sixteen births as affauist U deaths re
flected a balance on the right side in the)
Xovember report forwarded by Dr. J. .
Stewart, the health officer. Nine of tho
new babies are boys. Deaths were duo
to the following causes: Accident I, sui
cide 1. arterio sclerosis 2, cancer 2. con
anmption 3. diabetes 1. enteritis 1. .ty
phoid fever 1. hemorrhage 1. unknown 1.
There were six cases of contagious dis
eases reported, whooping hve
measles. , ..
There was a small volume of routine
matters for the hopper. A. Tonias.. ap
pearing before the coiinc
.1,0 l,lermanic committee oi me -"
l,l invent ioate his request for I
build-
won
g permit at 10 Merchant street Sunt.
A rs. ,-r.nrt from the water de-
Supt.
in
F,
port
partment. covering tne mom.. v. ----her
and Xovember. was accepted as read
W. H. Rock s request for "f
the tiddler license granted to t, K.
Wood w honored to the " f'jj
the petitioner. In his request for permis
'ion to move a house from the Bassett
firm to Prospect street. William Martin
I" off not so easily. The f council cort
t:., i ,i no-sibilitie of a blockade
: p 1 1 1 r-1 ".a i , . i . a.
bank, to install one light; Methodit
Mam streev ei-.-, "'f - "
(ContloaeJ on fourth pacel
