&l)c t?atclimau Etil) Southron.
TSCL iUhfTKR WATCHMAN, i^tAOlk?ied April, IHM. "Be Jnet and Fear not?Let all the ende Thon Alme't at be thy Country'e. Thy God'e and TraUa" THIS TRUE SOUTHRON, Eetabuabed Jnnd, 1 tea
Consolidated Aug. 2,1881. SUMTER, S. C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20, 1916. Vol.XJTn. No. 36.
SAYS PEACE OFFER HELPS.
w. ,i. i\n\ k\ si i s hope or
nubcs m niomai or
(.UIMAXY.
Ciri'ui Commoner IWIictes I ally r.\.
(ll.MlL'- Sjf \l(Ms Will i oiiow <?<?
man l*it?|M?^4il?Ncutruls Cun t Help
Charleston. I m ? I William .lea?
nings his.in hjtft I" lecture beiOft tili
t'h u It'siuu Count) Bund*? School as?
sociation, deemfed la ia Interview
that he thought Qifawany's proposal
for a conference to ncirot ia t o for peace
would hardly OS rajsjef4\ He made
the Hgniticant st.it? u nit. also, that
he did ant seo it would .ml tin- cauos
of peace for neutrals to suggeat terms,
The C.reat Commoner was in a Jovial
mood, although rather travel worn
upon arrival. A lame committee in
an%SS met BIM at the union station
and escorted luiu to his hotel, whe.-e
he accorded a MWS paper man an in?
terview while taking a hurried shave,
before lunching with his hosts, and
onjnylnf, an automobile trip.
None of ins nationsai war erillad?
nut that it is responsible tor the war
and since that war is much more hor?
rible than anyone could have imagin?
ed, the ronpaantatltty for its continu?
ance will be, graver than the responsi
MMt) for Hi eefuinlng. P^ot that rea?
i?on, I think that an c\rh:in;re of views
Kill follow and the | hanees arc manv
that an agreement wiil be reachcl.
That must si.rely i?e the hope of the
people In the belligerent nations as
well as people in neutral nations."
When asked w hat terms were likely
to be agreed upon. Mr. Hryan replied
that was a question for the belliger
ents, and that he did not see it would
aid the cause ol' peace for neutrals to
suggest terms.
"The belligerents will work that out
for themselves. If they once get to
aether, cither directly or through an
intermediate."
Mr. Br\an spoke very freely on the
recent heniocratic victory, and said
that the result was not only gratifying,
but the value of tho victory was in
creased by the fact that it was secur?
ed without tho aid of New York.
"The Mouth and West are respon?
sible for this victory, and they arc
natural allies." he said. "The Baal
Is the centre of consolidated wealth
and the presence of the-e onormOUJ
corporations overshadows the produc
er of SfOeHi arid the common man.
The Bast is also the centre of a su'"
std'.sed i>r< s Whoa i say lubsldised,
I do aol mean that the papers asOOO
sariiy receive ? epeeined bum lot ed?
vocatin-r or opposing a polltlcnl mens?
ure, beM the city ROV ipapor li a b |
buslm >s proposition and it is often
more or ics* intimate!] connected with
frunehi-c hoJdtag corporal lomi and
with !aig?> eXploltlni interests ami,
therefore, th< people down Rani have
Hille r ha nee le be Informed ni to the
merits ol puMie measures."
After ins lent are tonight, Mr. Bryan
letr far M inn. whore he has -i winter
hmiii'. i - hlresned n t cry lurgs eu?
da to <t tin' Victor! i iheetm
BKHXHTOIU'P CALLS ON LANslNc.
IHm'Um.? Quest loan tn Dispute ltd wren
Tho Countries? Talk lnformall> of
mjsjaa O0eeA
Washington. I ?er. 1 ? Von Bertis?
toiff ladn] railed o file billy on Heere?
t?ry Lansing regarding the status of
a number of questions in dispute be?
tween tinx eountr) and Oermany, At
the sante lime tin pence situation * ns
e^emsssed informally, Bats, declined
to diseu>s the c iiii'i iri ' c. Kntente
dipJomnta were srcutly Interested In
bis rloet, eagerly Imiuiiing whether
\'<>i\ Bemetorfl had made any sugges
lions ab?ng possible German peure
terms When told ' im,'' they ex
pressed gratlAcatlon,
(.(Hin ni:w> Mill It. I". |? mi.N.
Itnral ( airier^* Ha? k Claim- to ii?
raid soon,
WushlnHton, liec. I ;. Conarei?
man Plnley vine 1 balrman of 11.. < '?in
nutter on the poatofflre und post*
f>.ui>. ant see.iMiulrles .?? tie 1x1 1?
othrp depart mem In regard I? ihc pro?
gpem i>?-.ns' in ol? in pay inn t
claims of rural carriers for I ?pay.
M provided for In tie bml postotlM'o
appropriation bill, passed It July, and
finds that tin work 1 rapidly goinm
face ard
Tro? d> pal tun nl e p.. j Ing Ihn
9* lens io alpha net leal order, mid lh?*
ehoetui far the North Carolina <
riefe will Im mailed inn too v ?
?rhMe I he Hanta I'aritllnit rarrlerswill
pfolmMy reeelve I heirs durlnji Ihe led
Idayn Tln*ae hneli imy rlnima Imim*
been the BUnjeef of much ill 1 n
and mten^t an:on I n< i.- Kill >'
1 ii in. d men 1 ii I He 1 ??? ? 1? t 0? 1 hts
bark pas n*III he I ? i- olio I by tin*
tut nU .
NOT READY FOR MEDIATION.
to m;ni> nou s on WITH no
COMMENT,
After Long cabinet Mooting formal
Anttoiimcmciu is hiwii Oui That
WamMagioM win Wall Entente Dc
(MN?Much Interest in Replies
Which Allies an* Expected to Make
to t.eiinan PrOoTcf of react* Xcgo
flat ions.
Washington, Dec. 13,?President |
Wilson lias decided Him the notes of
the central powers proposing a dis?
cussion of pence to the entente allies
will be sent forwmrd by the American
government ? tmc as Intermediary
without any accompanying mediation ,
oiler of its own. He has not detennin
td whether any notion In behalf of
peace will i?c taken later by the United
Btates on it:< own account, hut Is
holding himself In readiness to serve
in any way possible toward bringing
the warring nations together.
The course to be pursued was made
Known tonight afttr the president had
conferred with Secretary Lanslngund
after a prolonged cabinet meeting, it
was stated that the delay in forward?
ing the notes to the entente capitals
waa due to the fact that the messages
reclved from Germany, Austria*
Hiwury und Turkey, Identical in
iubstunct, differed slightly In phrase
Ology as a result of dlfTercnt trans?
lations. Tlicy probably ail! be put
on the Cables tomorrow.
Ilnce the IIret note arrived, the one
from Germany, the president and hi
I
closest advisers have heen absorbed
in study of the situation created. The
Austrian note followed and the one
from Turkey came late today, too
late to ho translated for the cabinet
meeting, Those from Germany and
Austria-Hungary have been gone over
carefully by the president and Beere?
tary Lansing to make certain of their
meaning and so that they may he
'sure to properly represnt the intent
of the central powers.
The fact that the eahinet meeting
today lasted more than three hours
and was the most prolonged of the
year attracted prea id attention <n
official circles and led to all sorts
of speculation. It was explained au?
thoritatively later, however, that the
meeting Was devoted largely to con?
sideration of departmental matte's
and had been prolonged because it
was the Hrst tim< since the campaign
mat all the members had been p*.om?
ent.
in other quarters than the White
House It was learned that some word
Indicating the oltkinl uttltude of the
entente allies toward the peace pio?
posal is being awaited with thedeon
est interest by the American govorn?
ment, Tim president will not cu*i?
eider Injecting the United states into
the attuattoi until he la thoroughly
mmlllar with all Its phases.
Secretary Laiming, explaining die
delay In transmitting the communion*
I
tIons of the central powers. point -d
OUt 11.. * t the (hi nan note was Iran.
llnted into Knallsh bj Churge Urow at
Herlln and the one from Austria by
Ambassador Penllcld at Vienna, whits
the Turkish note cume to the state
department In French, .\> the com?
munlcatloiM were Intended to be Iden?
tical tlie state department d ies not
deelre io transmit tin e, different ver?
sions and when ail three uro n hand
tomorrow .1 plan to uvold this will *jc
detei mined upon.
in Uiiglc.nd, Prance and Japan tin ;
government represents nil three Tcu?
tonic countries and will have to de?
llver three separate notes, in Russin
and Hervlu tile |*nlte?| states repre?
sents both Austria mid Germany and
will have t-? send only two separute
notes. Only to Uelgium, where Aus?
Ina is represented, and in ItOUllUtnln.
v.1.. it flermany Is represented, will it
Mo poasible to send only one note.
T'? uvold duplleiitlou of cables by
sending several copies or the sauic note
1 ho same country und ulsti to In?
v ire one ofltrtui Version tie- all three
notes entrusted to this government, it
is possible ihut a careful translation
v. ill i>e made u( 'he department and
compared With thfl te\ts a- ariivin
here. Can lids InVolVC) a et i t in
nmounl of Interpretation im Irausl.i?
t on and sonn* idllcluls think it would
he safer to line, t tie- three A hi erica n
a in I'.issa dors in I'.eilin VieniUI and
Consta n I Innplfl to send on the lexl
handed to them I?) the res|M'C! Vfl foi
elan otllees fur truiiainlssioii in Iheli
mi in i' form l?i Hie cnuntries numeil
Hw'ltaerliind's action In handing the
i lei m i 11 note to hut) v Hhoul roiil
ii ? 111 a? unimtinced through the ?' 11
1.hi pa 11 Iii men I by Koreigit \liiiinlei
Siiimiiiu was mded In re Hi inlei
est
I ?ein?le Indll i '1"" l?f tt e Mil lltltl
Of the i iii* HIS IlHlCH i- e .p. . led 111
the v|.eli (if IHlVId hl" d 'I' "i e.the
Iii 1' h piiaiv mini hi in .t T >? d >
LitjUOil KBIBB NUMEROUS.
CONTINUE TO ACCl'MVLATE IN
DOTH norsi.s.
House Committee Makes Favorable
Itcport on Hill Barring Whiskey Ada
I Vom Mails.
Washington, Dec. i">.?Legislative]
measures aimed ut destruction of the
liquor traffic continue to accumulate
In congress as i>??th houses are dclug
ed With petitions from all parts of the
country urging adoption of the na?
tional prohlblton constitutional
amendment and passage of Other
anti-liquor measures including the
Bhoppard bill to prohibit the manu?
facture and sale of liquor in the L)?s
trlct of Columbia,
The lit.vise postofllce committee op?
ened the door to another phase of the
problem today .n reporting favorably
a hill by Representative Randall of
California designed to close the mails
to advertising Of any intoxicating liq?
uors and to deny mail order houses
the right to uo into either "wet" or
"dry" territory to solicit sales
through the medium Of the mails.
No move was made during the day
by prohibition leaders in the hOUSO
regarding the constitutional amend*
meni reported yesterday from the
Judiciary committee, but U^preseuta
ti\'e Webb, chairman of the commit?
tee, plan? to ask the rules committee
for a special rule to get the resolu?
tion before the house soon after the
holUho s.
Now that excitement occasioned by
the unexpected action of the judici?
ary committee In recommending the
resolution has subsided, house mem?
bers are reflecting OU the prospects
for it passage, as the consensus of
opinion seems to be that it can not
get the necessary two-thirds majority
In the sixty-fourth congress,
Representative Webb is confident
that the amendment will receive
more votes than it did In the last
i congress and that by the time the
next congress has considered tho is?
sue the victory can be won.
The District ojf Cqlunibjq,. PJLiibibi
tlon bill was considered for several
hours In the senate today but was
temporarily laid aside after Senaior
jgheppard has sought an agreement to
i vote next Monday. When opponents
of the measure signified that they
would be ready for a final vote at
that time, Senator Jones of Washing
oil, .i friend of the bill, objected
to llxlng the date. Debate on the
measure and the Underwood amend?
ment to provide for a referendum on
(the Issue to the voters of the district
will be resumed tomorrow.
Hi nu tor Km out of I'tah, declaring
that the Sheppard bill is n make
sliift. submitted a substitute today
which would not only prohibit the
manufacture and sale of liquor In the
ra pi tit I but also prevent its importa?
tion for personal use.
Postmaster General Burleson i.
\ rains the early maillna of Christinas
i resent* In order to ms ire prompt do
1 very.
_
.Meanwhile the authorized statement
of the German embassy here that
partial disarmament will be one of
the subjects taken up ;<t any peace
( inference was discussed generally
In ofllcinl and diplomatic circles, with
m iceulfitlon us to how far in this di?
rection ?Icrniatv. might bo willing to
go.
American diplomacy in the various
questions relating to the war may be
said to have stopped short, temporari?
ly, with the announcement of the Teu
t< nie offer lo talk peace, The subma?
rine Issue, which ngain hud reached
an aggravated state with the com?
pilation of evidence that the steamers
.Marina and Arabia were sunk with?
out warning or provision for the
safety of those on board, und tin
Itrlgiun deportation, as to which Oer?
man- lias just i cplh d in n note be?
lieved to i'e unsatisfactory to the
state depart nient. arc temporarily out
of mind and nil the pending ques?
tions with Kngland are also iln;
mart.
Pence has been uiven the ri^ht oi
way at the department and kl Im?
been physically impossible for of?
ficials, already overcrowded with
work, io sjve Immediate attention to
other business waiting on their desks.
The nuthorixed slatemenl ;it tin
Herman embassy lhal consideration
of at leasl partial disarmament would
be one ol I he things taken up :it tin
pen.nference attracted the widest
attention uiiiona government otlicial:
and diplomats.
Ii \,as itecoiinled iloubh interest inj
because Herman) had repeated I.\ re
fused such suggestions, even lo ih<
point it a'us said, ol I hi eat* du; i ?
wit idrav front the second Hague con
i ei ( nvc If I he ioi t \\ us pi esi < <\
SEVERAL HEMI.MREHEI) IN PL'B?
LIC BUILDINGS BILD.
1
Rule Ad . ted by House for Speedy Ac?
tion on Omnibus .Measure?To lluihl
or Enlarge Postolliccs.
Washington. Dee. 15.?The follow?
ing are the South Carolina items in
the^OWinihus puhlie buildinglull which .
un#e# n rule of the Imm-e just adopted,
wilt Probably be brought up imme
dintely for passage.
,r6 enlarge or rebuild postotllce and
lOicrtlhousc building at Alken, $7.",
00' Building at Dillon. *25,onu; sites
at Oonway $:i,00n, Hamberg $5,000,
Kastey $5,n()u, Creer s5.nmi. Harts-'
villtf5 $3,000, Mannings $5,000, Sum
mc^ville $5,000, York $9,000; post
otlicO, court house and other govern?
ment offices at (ireenwood, $125,000,
tho secretary of the treasury being
authorised to sell the present federal
building and site at puMic sale for
cash to the highest bidder; postoflice,
court house and other government of?
fices *t Mock Hill. $125.111111, the sec?
retary of the treasury heim; author?
ized-to sell the present budding and
site[|j? public or private sale and if
he jleenis best to buy additional land
for J^ilte fur the federal court house
adjjjltot to or near the present post
offir* building to erect a court house
thQjfyfel, the sum of s Km.(ion being
aunUNTized for the acquisition of ad
ditiwn\l land and the erection of a
coull house in t hat event.
HOlRFi'L or peace parley.
WaAfciglon Oiliciah Express the Be
llW%tuit Proposals Will be Consld
Waa||lngtotl. Dee. hi.?Despite the
action of V n Kussian duma in vmiug
! a.gai??t the Teutonic tender of peac e.
admlttletration circles today express
the oftn^latic. belief that the offer of
peacj> will be considered carefully by
I the Russian forei.-'n olTice. as well as
joy other entente governments
TO JDECU)h POU V
Cabinet Meeting W ill Toda> Consider
Pence Proposals,
Washington, Dec. 15.?The course
; that will !>e taken by this country as
an intermediary between the warring
nations will he settled definitely at
the meeting of the president and cab?
inet kite today. President Wilson con?
ferred with Secretary Lansing today.
Secretary Lansing refused to make
any statement, but the understanding
Is that the rights of neutrals with an
I interest at stake In the struggle will
be upheld with view of at leust sug
| gestlng that the peace proposals be
given the gravest consideration by the
nations addressed.
BIO DEAL IN GREENVILLE.
Piedmont Northern to spend .st.">o,
000 on Warehouse*.
Greenville, Dec. 15.?The Pied?
mont and Northen Hallway h.is purch?
ased additional property to the we*i
I of Its warehouse. on Washington
street, at u cost ol $50,000, and will
j erect a series of twelve now ware?
houses, to cost In tlie neighborhood of
j $lO(i,ooo. the whole Investment rep?
resenting an expenditure of approxi?
mately $irin,iiuii. Announcement to
this effect was obtained yesterday
'from otllciuls of the Electric Hallway
Company, and probably means more
to the constructive life and husincsa
development of (Sreenvile than any?
thing that has occurred in recent
years.
HAILROAI) COMMITTED COX
TIN I I IS.
Congress Will Carry on Im estimation
1 ntit Joniinry, uns.
Washington, Dec. !???A resolution
continuing the joint congressional
committee investigating railroad con?
ditions until January 1st, IMS, was in?
troduced In the house today h\ llepre
sentativc Adamson.
DISCTSS GERMAN PROPOSALS.
Knteittc Powers Exchange Notes on
Peace ProflTei*.
Paris, I >ec. 15, l dplomat lc ex
changes, understood In refer to the
tlcrman peace proposal, are reported'
tn he taking place In Lo nbni. I'aris.
I ?( trograd timl Home
I.ondon, Di v i .. The (angled
(Sreek situation now existing, ;??
day became even more complical
cd, iiccordiny lo reports i?m ?? i\< ?! In
il:iy. A llctttei ilispaP h from Athens
stated tliit the ultimatum ol the al
lies would p: hi be ici ? pit d nt
principle, An ? .i( i.> ? di natch sa v
Niuu Constantim* had 111*< '>i\ :o
i eptcd t he nit im.it cm.
PLAN PRESENTED To FEDERAL
TRADE C OM MIssiON.
Scheme Contemplates Determination I
ol' Value and Sotting of Fixed Lim?
it Through Inquiry.
-
Now N. ork, Dec. 1">.?A plan de-'
signed tw standardize the price of
news print paper so that it shall he
within nach of the small as v oll as
the large newspaper publishers was!
presented to three members of the
federal trade commission who came
here today to confer with half a hun?
dred representatives of the paper
manufacturing industt y.
Tin: plan proposes that an investi?
gation of the paper making lndu?t**y
bo undertaken by the commission and
after the cost of production is oscer
tained to have the commission Px a
fiat, standard price of the product at
the mill.
i The proponents of the plar are
publishers of small dailies in New Jer?
ry and Pennsylvania, represented here
today by E. 11. Tomlinson of .Morris
town, N. J., and Kniest G. Smith of
\\ i Ikes bar re. Pa.
The paper manufacturers nu- here
with members of the commiraion to
formulate a policy for the conduct ol
tliclr Bide ol the case at the Joint con?
ference in Washington tomorrow,
They appointed tlie following commit?
tee to confer with the publishers at
the conference: Justice Cowlea of W.
H. Parson & Co., New York; C. H.
Mead. Spanish Itivor Pulp & Paper
mill, Ltd., Sault St. Marie. Ont.. G.
W. Mead, Consolidated Water ?SL Pow
! er company, Grand Rapids, Mich ; r .
T Podge. International Paper com?
pany, New York; E. W. Backus, Mln
ncsota Ontario Power eompuny,
Mineapolis, Minn.; C. T. M?\nir,
Northwest Paper company. Cloquet,
(Minn.; Alexander Smith. Abitide Pulp
& Paper company. Montreal: George
; Chahoon, Jr. Lnurentlde company,
Grand Mere, Que., and W. J Scnillon,
j Powell Paper company, Vancouver.
James B. Potter, attorney the
News Print MajiufactuiTrjsj?J^e^^
Afon, which" called the paper met! tc
gether, said the committee was given
! no power to act for them, but
' w as appointed merely to meet the
I publishers, talk the situation over and
report back to the manufacturers, lit
said tho pain to standardize prices in
large and small customers alike Bug*
I gested b> the small publishers w.-s
i not taken up at today's meeting.
DISTINGUISHED HYPHENATE
DEAD.
Poof Hugo Huilsterberg of Har\ nd
Pi-oppcd Dead This Morning.
Boston, Dec 1G. ? Hugo Munster
bcrg, aged professor of psychology
II Harvard college, dropped dead early
today vvllilo addressing a class at
Uadcliffe. His death is believed to
have been caused by heart disease,
i but he was apparently in perfect
healt h.
; GERMANY HAS TERMS READY.
Conditions on Which She Will Agree
to Peace Formulated.
Berlin, Dec. 13.?The terms upon
! which Germany and her allies are
l*ead> lo make peace are formulated
, and will be submitted to the entente
powers soon a< the latter have sig?
nified their willingness to inter into
negotiations.
' From the expressions gathered in
i the corridors of the reichstag shortly
lifter yesterday's historic session, it
??ceume clear that the majority of the
members of the German parliament
heartily favor Germany's peace move.
To he sure there were many exprea
ions on the part of opponents of tie*
chancellor*!* policy urging that peace
4e taade only upon a Itasts ol "WOO
*o tho conquered."
Tile concensus ol opinion, however,
was that the peace move is timely and
v hat ever the reception accorded it I i
Site entente countries, it will prove
advantageous lo ihr central powers.
RUSSIAN'S t'OXTIM I. RETREAT.
I'ctltoilic \llio Ma\e Taken Mam
More Prisoners.
I?erlin. Dec. It! Itussians in north
ern Dobrudja are retreating unde:
11it of the Geruian allies, Two thou
sund additional prisoners have heei
captured, the war otlb*e iinnottnced.
The Teuton- have reached lluxeuri
inuik road. Itussinn uttaeks on tin
eastern frontiei ol Transylvania >
Icrdat failed.
Luidiin, Dim Hi That tin Ibiti
rnsors is gnrhlinu new-, until it Kit
M ii > it rate ana i nslcadinp m pn ssio
in the I *nite?l States was charged
HOUSE ' j? MITTEE VOTES TO
RECO ? :xd nation-widi:
? tOHIBITION.
0|I|mhm > >f Liquor TraJHc Jubilant
at I Success in Rrinjjug Prop
osif Before Bouse With Fax or?
al) wort.
Wa? utngton, Dec Ii. ? Nationwide
prohibition took a long snide toward
congressional consideration today
when the house judiciary committee
unexpectedly voted to recommend
adoption of the proposed constitu?
tional amendment to forbid the manu?
facture and sale of liquor for bevei
age purposes in the United States.
Even the most enthusiastic champions
of the amendment had not expected
favorable action so oon from the
committee, which at the last session
voted to postpone its consideration in?
definitely.
How far the resolution will pro
press through the various legislative
stages of this congress is problemati?
cal and administration leaders doubt
that it will reach tho senate in time
for action at this session. Prohibi
' tion advocates, however, predict ultl
! mate adoption of the resolution and
its reference to the various State leg?
islatures at a much earlier dale than
? they heretofore had hoped for. A
two-thirds majority in both houses
is required.
; The prohibition issue also was
brought directly to the attention of
the senate when tlie Sheppnrd bill to
(prohibit the manufacture and sale of
i liquor in the District of Columbia bc
I came the unfinished business to be
kept before the senate until disposed
of. As an amendment to this bill Sen?
ator Underwood has proposed a ref?
erendum to the male voters of the
j district. Senator Kam of Indiana,
has added a proposal that women also
should participate In the referendum.
Sentiment In the senate for and
against the referendum appears to be
' closely divided, with a vote on tho
subject expected within a day or two.
Discussion of th^_Sbjppard bill_af-^
ITorded opportunity for comment on
the proposed amendment, several sen?
ators, among them Sheppard, Varda
man and Owen, predicting triumph
for the cause of nationwide prohibi?
tion In the near future.
Hardly any one doubted tonight
(that prohibit.on will be a dominant
legislative issue before the new Sixty
fIfth congrress if the constitutional
amendment does not reach a vote this
; winter.
In the house before the amend?
ment can be taken up for considera?
tion a special ride must bo adopted
giving it a right of way. Representa?
tive Webb, chairman of the judiciary
committee, will ask for such a rule
early in January and endeavor to
press the resolution to ar early vote.
Seven members of t Do judiciary
committee voted against reporting the
; prohibition amendment. They were
? lard or Ohio, Dyer and Igoe of Mis?
souri, Uraham and Steele of Pennsyl?
vania, Walsh of Massachusetts and
Dan forth of New York. Representa?
tives ISIxa Williams of Illinois ami
Cariin of Virginia, who were oppose I
to the resolution at tHo last session,
voted this tune to recommend its
adoption.
President Wilson was urged late to
da> by the Rev. Clarence T. Wilson,
representing the Methodist conference
board, to use his influence with con?
gress to prohibit the use of the mails
for the sending of liquor advertise?
ments by unlicensed liquor (balers.
An effort is being made to have such
a provision included in the current
postoffice bill.
FRENCH rot ND HERMANS AT
VFRDUX.
Teutons Hate Penetrated RrltisJi Sec?
ond Lines W est ol* danders.
Berlin, Dec. l??. While the French
pound the C.erman lines on the Ver?
dun front, the Teutons have launched
h drive west of Flanders, penetrat?
ing the second line of the Dritbsh Po?
sition? in the /alle' erk sector, the
war office announced.
r u^i: i?t?it pi:rsiiini?.
l*\|MMlitioii Commander Made Major
< icneral.
Washington, IV.? IT?. Winthrop M.
Daniels uf \. w Jersey was nominated
b> President Wilson toda> to succeed
Itimstli as a mem I ?er of the inter
?t?te i'<?mtu?'rcc commission. I trig.
<.. : John .1 IVrshinr commanding
the Vmeican i%xpediti?*nar> force in
\'< \ co. w.iv nominal?*?! !<? be a nts
? ?r general The following colonels
were n??n mate,! for promotion lobe
In i oil. i generals I.ecu Kail't. Fran
- is 11 Ft ? 'lieh. Civ* It St .1 < ' l e le
i lid Charles IJ I'm ii,
