The
VOL. 11, No. 45, SKMl-WKLKLY.
i ? BIG GUNS ARE
& STILL ACTIVEr"?;r, ?ir
Man Hunt.
tiornians round Another Verdun
Salient. tl ,, .
hi Paso. March
?... ..... ~ . ed without movet
NO INFANTRY ATTACK
<c.n punitive expc
In Coastal Region of the Caucasus ^oth shies of t
Russians Continue to 'Drive the ^IU(>rioan ?nd ( ai
Turks Before Them. nouceauie progr<
trating their fore
Switching their activity from the Francisco Villa ii
east to the northwest of Verdun, the hua. The plight
Germans again are hammering at the colonists at Casas
salient of LeMonte Homme and the an attack by Vilh
region of the Bois Bourrus, in an en- ter to-night,
deavor to bring their line farther John Churchill
south on the western flank of the rived in Juarez t
fortress. hua City, said tht
To the east of the Meuse and in the other Americans
Woevre district there has been a their train in Ch
noticeable let-up in the bombard- threatened him.
ment on both sides. The infantry Americans would
everywhere on the Verdxin front has they reached the
been Inactive. icans made the ti
In line with the bombardment of Tjie horse rac<
LeMorte Homme and the Bois Bour- larger crowd of A
rus. the Germans are assembling to-day, apparentl:
men in the region between Forge3 pUVse races. Me
and the Bois des Corbeaux, prob- par( remained sib
ably with the intention of throwing ican expeditionar
them into the fray should the intense pressed the hope
bombardment meet with success. The ,ners would catch
French artillerist*, however, have states troons ent
had this assembling point under the Activity of th
fire of their guns. No advantage about some ditch
Is claimed by either side in the latest track attracted ;
fighting around the fortress. cans. It was sa
Back of the German line to the Were cleaning u]
north of Verdun a French air squad- Reports that
rfm dropped 130 bombs on the sta- has decreaged C?
Con at Brieulles, and at numerous bple, QavJra Jufi]
points around Verdun French and , ,, . .. .
" . , felt that the Amc
German aviators have met in com- fectl gafe UU(
bats in the air with the advantage tfae tfoopg Qf Cq
incontestably in favor of the French. Qav|ra s&id hg h
according to Paris. At least three ,n8tructlona fron
German aeroplanes are declared to Two trainr thi
have been brought down, while oth- Juarez from Chj
era were seen by the French observ- ,ng the 6()0 SQld
era, to be In distress. min-Garia and ?
In the region of Seppois, Upper d,d
not appear.
Alsace, the Germans essayed an at- tra,ng 8t d a
tack on trenches which the French nuaj1UA The
had captured, but were repulsed with ' . . .
.. . _ ? . though the trail
considerable losses. The French
morrow.
guns have done damage to German
positions north of the Ainse, In was stil
Champagne, and in the eastern por- Juarez headquari
tion of the forest of the Argonne. ralitos General \
In Northwest Russia, around Riga. 1)6 near- ?ne '
in the Ikulst district and on the ml,es from the r{
Jacobstadt sector, there have been ( orra,R?8' R?s
violent artillery duels. In Galicia. tton wou,(1 K've
southeast of Kolki, and along the Iine* The ,aot
middle Stripa River, the Russians ( hi,iualiua came
have been successful in small en- theor> that
gagements with ihe Teutons. v teory tliat he \
In the coastal region of the Cau- ^orra,itoscasus
front the Russians still are
driving the Turks before them. MR. COOPKR *
Lieut. Gen. Jan Christian Smutz, RAOl
the former defense minister of the
Union of South Africa, and now .. .
.. .. _ ... ? .... .Makes Announo
commanding the British expedition
against German Fast Africa, has had once Uitli Fr
a stiff engagement with the Ger- ?
mans In the mountainous region Greenwood,
west of Taveta, along the frontier. To the Chariest
The Germans were driven hark, al- The Hon. Itober
though the fighting was of the most rens. announcer
obstinate character. The British are he would be a
endeavoring to cut off the retreat ernor in the I)ei
of the Germans, who are withdraw- summer. Mr.
Ing to the south. ment was mad<
Unofficial advices are that Admir- with friends fn
al Von Tlrpltz, the German minister the state, who
I of marine. Is ill, and that the mln- wood for the pi
Istry is in charge of another official, his duty in th
Mr. Cooper hai
PltlCE OX VILLA'S HEAD week attending
.... IT. . ~ . ... this circuit, and
I... CIthea. Woufcl Rata.- RtoC acMMl5U ?,.nr
Reward. meeting place f
Humholt, Iowa, March 12.?A in making th
movement is on foot here to raise a Cooper stated
fund of from $5,000 to $10,000 for would be given
Information leading to the capture close to Mr. Cor,
of Gen. Francisco Villa. The re-1 the announcemi
ward is being urged to avenge the position will be
death of James Dean at Columbus, urged, it is cla
N. M.. In the Villa raid. Dean for- sections of the
merly lived here. six months to
. for governor thi
Will Support Manning. missing the no:
Columbia, March 8.?Special: John or twe years i
G. Cltnkscales, of Spartanburg, over margin, around
the long distance telephone to-night it was not Mr.
from his home, announced that he thrust himself
would support Governor Mpnning for uation in Soutl
re-election when asked if he intended ; He at first dec
running for Governor. Mr. Clinks- to this efrect, t
ealea said: "I am not a candidate |requests for hi
fop governor. The administration of ' dldate have be<
Governor Manning has rav full en. ?? th.
dorsement and I am with him In hit* to yield to I
race for re-election. He stand* for frjends |n this
education and for law and order, and . . .
. .. . . ' , that he has nevi
deserves the support of the loyal
Democrats of South Oarollna. I shall ton anything
support him with all my might." jit and does n
W# F. C. from this prlnc
Stated kw
LANCA;
LANCASTER, S. C.
=? FIGHTING IN VEBDUN A
s,rrr CEASES FOR MOMENT
.
Only Artillery Action Seen In War- C
i 12.?Sunday pass- bat tered Itcgion.
uent of any Amerl-'
edition into Mexico, j '*** AX1KI 11)1.K AS ( ! N'S lioAK
he border, however.! ,
rranza armies made j Tremendous Shelling Kept Up By "
*ss toward concen-: Both Sides on Hanks of Mouse.
es for the hunt for j
n northern Chihua- Except for artillery action the
; of 500 Mormons, fighting in the Verdun region viri
Grandes, who fear tually has ceased for the moment. ^
t, was reported bet- To the north and east of the fortress tf
there has been no infantry engage- n
of EI Paso, who ar- ment since Saturday afternoon when ^
o-day from Chihua- the Germans succeeded in entering
it while he and five a small Frencl trench to the north n
were waiting for of Elx. ir
lihuahua a Mexican On both sides of the Meuse from al
saying that all six the northwest of Verdun, along thei?'
be hanged before | entire sector around the southeast of s*
border. The Amer I the fortress, the artillery of both ^
rip in safety. sides has continued the tremendous j
in Juarez had a shelling which has been in progress
merlcans than usual j ^or flaysy
attracted by soni" The Germans claim to have cap
xicans for the most | t.ured 'n the fighting around Verdun
jnt about the Aiuer. thus far 2)5,4 <2 unwounded French
y force. Some ex-1 "'ticers and men. and 181) guns and
! that Caranza sol-;~*' machine guns. j
Villa before United To ,he 8?uth of the Somme river,
ered Mexico. j 'n Argonne forest and in the Han 1n
e Caranza soldiers Sapt sector of the Vosges the!
es back of the race ' guns have heavily bombarded
attention of Amerl-1 f*rrman eutrenehments. J
... I Tho RucoUn.. t - . I"
..uouciid niivt? capiuren|
hi mat nie soiaiers , trencheB from the Germans In the j ^
p rubbish. Dniester region of East Galicia and L
erll to the Mormons j^ave made additional progress'^
ime from Gen. C.a- afCajn8t Hie Turks in Persia by tak- ^
rez commander. He ,ng the tQWn of Klrind. The Rus. ^
>rican colonists were sjanB a(frait the sinking of a Russian '
ler the protection of jorpetj0 fooat destroyer by a subma- |
il. Samuel Gonzales. rlne 0f tjie central powers in the
ad not received any Bjacjc <*Ga tile Bulgarian port of
i Gen. Caranza. Varna. Part of the crew of the de-1 >
tt were exptected in a^royer waa rescued,
ihuahua City carry- Despite the unfavorable weather j
Hers of Gen. Benja- con(jiUons in the mountains the Ital- '
Gen. Luis Gutierrez, jang are continuing their operations ^
It was said the agalnst
the Austro-Hungarians. They 1
t Laguna, near ( hi- a|BO are intensely bombarding the 1
officers at Juarez jgonzo front. The town of Gorizia *
as would arrive to- |iaR jla(j BUBtajn another hall of f
Italian shells. 1
11 uncertainty in the The British fleet auxiliary Fauv- (
ters as to which Cor- ette, a vessel of 2,6 4 4 tons, has been 1
filla was reported to jost together with 14 members of '
s a ranch about 15 her crew by striking a mine off the v
illway station named coast of England. *
session of this sta- a Paris dispatch says that testi- *
Villa control of the monv given the American consul at 1
that the train from Havre by the seven Americans on ,
through this morn- board and members of the crew of '
was at the ranch the Norwegian bark Silius which '
vas at the ranch was sunk off the coast of France, is '
that the boat was torpedoed by a I
submarine, and without warning.
INTERS | v '
B FOR GOVERNOR ! BM?OD OF SOLDIERS
I IN GFIFK1VS VEINS
cuieiu Alter t onter-i " ~
I Native of South Carolina Killed on
lends. Border Son and Grandson of Vet
eran.s.
March 8.?Special: Special to the State:
on News & Courier: Pickens, March 12.?Fred A. Grif
t A. Cooper, of Lou- fin killed Thursday at Columbus 1
1 here to-night that N. M., when the town was attacked,
candidate for gov- by Mexican bandits led by Villa, was
nocratlc primary this the third Roldier of his family. His
Cooper's announce- father, Ambrose Griffin, was a voli
after a conference nnteer in tlie United States army in
>m many sections of the Spanish.American war and saw
had come to Green-j service in Cuba. His grandfather.
irpose of considering Cat. J. A. Griffin, is a well known
e coming campaign. ; Confederate veteran of Pickens coun?
been here all ihe. ty.
court as solicitor of! Fred Griffin's parents moved to
Greenwood is easily Brook wood, Ala, shortly after the
o its selection as a close of the Spanish-American war,
or his friends. where they now reside.
ie announcement Mr.! Mr? Cra,,t Baker and Mr>- w?'"
that HI. platform *? of P"'k,'n" ara Fr'"1
in due time. Those | fIr,ff,n'
per say that he makes '?"
K.J H. ?. HA VIS DIRD SATl'Rn * V
cut nun n\/ inai uid
known. He has been _ lined,
by men in all VnrmrT and Once Democrati
state for the past ir the Vice Presloffer
as a candidate'
s summer. Although, ??
mi nation for govern-) Washington, March 11.?Former
Mto by a very close i United States Senator Henry OaRsatwo
hundred votes. Havis died here this morning of
Cooper's intention to KrJPP*. 93. He was visiting his
into the political sit- j daughter, Mrs. Stephen B. Elklns.
i Carolina this year.' fnneral will occur at Elkins.
lined all suggestions W. Va.
>ut it is said that the'; Mr. Davis was a former senator
m to offer as a can-1 from West Virginia and democratic
ome so frequent and candidate for the vice presidency In
it he feels it a dutr'|li04* H,s nomination by the St.
the judgment of his I I-ouis convention as running mate for,
matter. It Is stated i A,ton B Parker took the country hv '
1 surprise, for he has been out of the
Br sought public office; for twentyH)ne ?ar? Mr. ?a-!
?er than his owrwner-1 vj8 waR 5orn November 16. 1828. The
ot Intend to deviate late Senator Stephen B. Elklns was
iple now. his son-in-law.
I
STER N
MAUC11 14, 191G
AMERICANS MUST ?:
GRANT SAME RIGHT 1ESS
arranzn Says Hunt for villa Must
Ho Purely Mutual Affair. I ' liiladolphia, M
or Martin G. Brum
MIST BK RECIPROCITY to a ,ot,or from
Republican Natior
, ,? , ..._ .. ...... from Ponnsvlvanl:
Our Duty to the Younger Organi- ; _______
zatlons?Miss Annette Stover. 1 $30000 <
12:00?Social hour.
1:00?Devotional?Mrs. AJlle Ca-I
toe ! Washington, 1
Heading?Miss Sallie Hendrix. thousand dollar
Mission Study?Mrs. D. R. Fletch- ,rPa8ur>'B consci
er i est ever receive
Plans for Leaders?Mrs. Nellie (,ay s man ,n a
Small. mal,ed ,n New
Offering. Tn,^| Under sepnrai
Churches are urged to send dele- ter unsigned, da
gates. mailed in New
Visitors from Division No. 2 are nounoed the sen
cordially invited. and explaining
Mrs. Will Kills, , restored to the
Pres. Division No. 1. in all.
; M : ' "
csiimony. 11 is sulci to leave no doubt j
hat the Stilus was torpedoed without Important Troop
warning. A full report on the sinking fcj Paso. Texa
if the vessel will he mailed to Wash-'p0rts to-nlgl
ngton. Four German submarines are tnnf American tr
eported to be In the English channel,' the Arlzona-Sono
jrepared to enforce rigidly Germany's strong cavalry pr
warfare. close to the houn
recently announced policy of navai . of San Rernardi
The French press is engrossed with ments led to per
the battle of Verdun, and publishes srnall American f
without comment the latest German for a quick dash
memorandum regarding submarine tional line in tht
warfare and the news of the sinking |
of the Silius. The Temps, however. OFFICERS <?
remarks that the torpedoing of the ?
Silius can not fail to reopen the en- Carolinians Who
tire conflict between the United States of
and Germany. ?
Incidentally, it remarks that the Washington.
Incursion of Mexican bandits into lowing army offi
American territory benrs the stamp rolina are stntioi
of German complicity. can border and
tlin nnroiiH n^
\V. >1. V. Program. (j. McMaster, 4th
Quartorly meeting W. M. U. anx- Bliss, Texas; Ca
iliary to Moriah association, division pr.triok. 8th cava
No. 1, to he held with Fork Hill as; Capt. Ben jar
church, Saturday March 2f?. infantry, Dougla
10:30?Devotional exercises. X. Bamford, 22<
Enrollment of delegates with ver> Ariz; 1st Lieut,
bal reports. infantry. Fort B1
Words of Welcome?Miss Myrtle Robert Mc(J. Lit
Baker. Port Bliss, Texa
Response?Mrs. W. L. Orimmin
How Can We Enlist Every Church Villa
Member to Become a W. M. U. Mem- ' , I aso. ai
her?Mrs. T. A. Dabney. Mrs. John m*r ViMa Renon
Xeal. l"e P0'100 here t
Does An Active W. M. S. Sfimu- of suspicious M
late Membership? How??Mrs. B. F. Julio Fabela, Sa
Carson. J,,an Rodriguez.
Reading?Miss Julia Hinson. t with vagrancy.
.... .... . ?. itnncn iii ft war it mil
.. ?t . o. ? v? i he will be a eandi
lit One I nltod States tan Never
Justify dential nomination
be placed on the
Mexico Cit, March 12.?General ' r< n"a' ballot to
arranza to-night issued a manifesto l)riniai;* <le<tion
...... . * . .? . , Wasson, who was
> the Nation declarin that under
, . .. .. ,, . tional Committee 1
0 circumstances would the Mexican
. ? . ? .. Theodore Rooseve
overnment grant te right to the .
. the governor to a
nited States to violate Mexican ter- I . ,
.... . . i ship in a moveme
tory by sending in an armed force .
... . . legation to the R<
1 pursuit of Villa without consent i
. .. . , . .. , . Convention which
nd the reciprocal privilege eing first
, . . . . , , ... . able to the Progr
btalned and admitted. Word was
.i ...... , ... fhe Republicans.
?nt to the confidential agent of the ? , . .
, , . . .. Political leaden
[exican government in Washington
. ... Governor s nnnoun
> make immediate representations ... ,
, ,, . figiit in the Repu
> this effect.
_ , ~ ... tween Governor
General Carranza savs in his man- ?
Senator Penrose 1
nef i\
... the delegation fro
I am sure that I interpret in
lis matter the National sentiment -??
nd that the Mexican people will IleTTy Shipments
amply in a dignified manner with Seattle. Wash.,
leir duty e the sacrifices what they quantities of frej
lay, to sustain their rights and sov- Russia is being sli
reignty if, unfortunately, this drags the eastern eonst
s into war?a war which the Uni_ because, it is sai<
>d States can never justify. We found in the Atls
ill not e responsile for the diaas- goods to their
rous consequences. ITpon the heads thousand loaded
f the traitorous Mexicans who with- the railroad yards
i and without this country have fie awaiting steal
iored to produce this result, will tok. Even larj
all the Inexorable justice of the freight are stalled
eople." Every available
* chartered, but the
XDKR SKA HAND than oan bc
SIT,ITS wlre and knook(1
otrwegian Bark Sunk by Submarine. P''no'Pa' articles.
Paris, March 12.?J. 13. Osborn, CARD XNZISTA
American consul, in his report to
Vashington on the sinking of the To Guard Mining
Norwegian bark Stilus, is understood Soi
o bring out clearly the Silius was ?
orpedoed by a submarine. The sev. Douglas. Ariz.
>n Americans on hoard the hark were hundred Carranzs
ooking after a cargo of oats consign - J mosillo, hurrying
>d to the French government. These i the Mexican side,
nen and the members of the crew ' at Xaeo to-day.
lave been questioned by the consul, j are to be distribu
vho has cabled a summary of their i ern Sonora bordt
estimony to Washington. Their camps.
[EWS
$1.50 A YEAR.
"IL3L- .... MCVIOAM TDr.nrip
> hilaiuhii i i\uuro
. CROSS LINE
. United States Kilters Int<? Koruinl
areli 12.?Govern- Agreement Wtth Mevieo.
bail till, in response
Henry G. WassonJ, TO CATCH ltAMMTS
lal Committeeman )
i has announced American Goveriuiient Kxpects Heardate
for the presi-i ty Co-operation of Carranza Forand
his name will ?es in Hunt for Vil!t?.
Presidential pref- w?'
be voted in the Washington. March 13.?The Union
May 16. Mr. ted states Government entered Into
elected to the Na- a formal agreement with the de facto
iy the followers of Government of Mexico to-day under
It in 1912, urged which American troops will cross the
ssume the leader- border to hunt down Villa and his
nt to secure a de- bandits with the expectation of hear?publlean
Nationally co.operation from the Carranza
would be accept- foroes.
essives as well as Secretary Lansing made public the
text of a note, accepting General
5 helie\e that t u r,;.rranzn,<' proposal for a reciprocal
icem^nt ptesnaes a arrnnp,f,niPnf between the two govblican
primarj li ornments and announcing that the
Prumbaugh am unjtPd States held this agreement
1,1 00,1,10 ? be now In force and binding upon
both parties. General Funston will
carry out his task under thiis acreeFrciglit
to Itiisshi. rnent.
Marc 13.?Large Official announcement was awaitglit
destined for ,1(| to-niuht that the American foripped
bv rail :rotn (,(>s jiad crossed the border. Plans
to Pacific ports nfr ^,0 troop movements have gone
1, ships cannot be a],ead without regard t othe diplointic
to carry the niatje exchanges. Mr. Lansing also
destination. Five niafje public a statement issued In
cars are to-day in l - ?
.if- ii.imi* or t'resiuent Wiilson, rein
and near Spat- iterating that every stop being taken
tiers for Vladivos- hy tlie Administration was based In
jer quantities oi deliberate intention to preclude the
at \ anouver, n. C . possibillity of armed Intervention In
steamer is being Mexico. The statement follows:
( cars arrive faster "In order to remove any appro>
emptied. Cotton, pension that may exist either in the
own ears are the United States or in Mexico, the President
has authorized me to give in
his name the public assurance that
S ON BORDER. n1'lltary operations now in con
femplation by this government will
Onmps in Eastern be scrupulously confined to the oblora.
jpet already announced and that in
no circumstances will they be sufMarch
12. Eleven fered to infringe in any degree upon
i troops from TTerl- sovereignty of Mexico or develop
to Agua Prieta on 'nto intervention of any kind in the
reached the horder internal affairs of our sister RepubIt
was said they 'fitted
along the East- "On the contrary, what is now
>r to guard mining being done, is deliberately intended
to preclude the possibility of inter
vention."
Movements Made. The note to Carranza defines the
s, March 12.?Re- terms o fthe agreement beyond the
lit. indicated imnor- nnooihiiu.. -< ?! * ? -- -
. , , ......j v)i iiii!*r<iiisininii)n. ill
oop movements on i brief it provides tliat where condira
boundary line, itions arise on the Mexican side of
itrols were reported! the border similar to those at Codarv
in the vicinity I lumbus which led to the orders to
no. These move- General Punston, to enter Mexico,
sistent reports that the same privilege privilege will be
r.rces were prepared , accorded to the Mexican de facto
across the interna- Government without the necessity
it region. of a further exchange or views. It
is clearly stated, however, that the
t THE BORDER. bandits to be pursued on American
soil by Mexican troops must have
Will Aid in Pursuit come from the American side, cornVilla.
mitted depredations on the Mexican
side and fled hack acain to United
ifarch 12.?The fol- | States territory. There is no such
cers from South Ca_ j instance on record in recent years
aed along the Mexi- i
will oarticipate in I
.... ,, , , , Miiv'.ovver l.eavev for Washington,
ilia: Maj. Richard , ^ ~ ,
.. .. .... ? , Old Point. \n.. Match 12.?Tli*
field artillery, Fori .....
.... naval vacht Mavflower with the I'respt.
George W. Kil- i . , ? ,
? ? ident and Mrs Wilson aboard left
lrv. Fort Pliss, Tex-' . .
. . ? here at 4:3'? o'eloek tills afternoon
ivin J. Tillman. 11th. . . . . ,, ,
'and steamed up Chesapeake Bay for
s. Ariz; Capt. Geo. ... ... ou . ,
... * Washington. She is due there soon
1 infantrv, Douglas,
? ^ nA . after daylight tomorrow.
G. C. Bowen. 20th
iss, Texas; 2d Lieut. I
tlejohn, 8th cavalry. MEXICANS PUT HAN ON
s. AMERICAN NEWSPAPERS
Brownsville, Texas, March 12.?
nerals Held. Mexican officers at Matamoras, oppo Ch
12. Three for- 8'*,e ,h,s c,ty- issued an order to-day
ils were arrested by p*?'udlng American newspapers. Leonight
In a roundup Garcia, a boatman on the inter
?*,tan8. rney arc ?erry, was arrested for carmuel
Rodripuez and a bundle of PaPera to Matft*
Th^v ttfrp Charged moras residents and a carrier for
V a Brown.vlll* newspaper ?a<. detalned
a short time and his papers
confiscated. ? ? -yrfti >a<
to Conscience Fund No expianation waa made f6r tH?
issuance of the order.
dareh 11.?A thirty | Making Munitions for Vnlted States
cuuinuiuion 10 ino ..
ence fund, the larg- Philadelphia, March 12.?Four of
>d, came by yeater- the largest munition plants in thl?
registered package section are working on rush orders
York. for steel sheila and riflea for tho
,e cover came a let- United States government, according;
ted Philadelphia but to statements made here to-night by
York, which an- officials of the companies, who adiding
of the $20,000 ded that they are in a position to
that the sender had supply the additional needs of this
government $80,000 country without interfering with
their foreign orders.
v3; ' ?
