fjW15?TgHiiWB"iwii!Wltlit Wi WWJp "'auunmm MyJi uwy unuywyw
- 's-WTtt't ftptfrf
P",-t- -P"
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
mmn
rvoL.H---lgG
rniLADELPIIIA, TUESDAY, MARCH 14, liUG.
CorTnioiiT. Itilit, nr tub t'unno I.rnoFB company.
PHIOE ONE OBHT
Kla trapped at galeana,
IAYS CARRANZA LEADER; U. S..
DASH INTO MEXICO REPORTED
Ijiexican Outlaw Band Reported Hern
ia med in 120 Miles South 01 Juarez .
After Abandoning Attack
on Mormon Colony
Rneral Funston Expected to Direct Hunt by Wireless
From Fort Sam Houston lo,UU0 bolcuers on
Border Prepared for March
Across the Line
... men tv Mnrrlt 1J. Tlmt Villii iH hcinix mtrrounded hv Car-
nilsta (roops in the Galc.inn dlsiricf wan tho declaration of General Gutier
2 on his arrival in Juarez from Chihuahua City today. Gutierrez said the
rriuistns hoped to capture Villa before the American expedition crossed
t border into Mexico.
.. ivmvin nvv Mnrrh 11 A flviii!' column of l.'iOO troopers,
trltt the lightest possible equipment, supplied with two weeks rations and
tinty or water, crossed the Mexican border today, it is asserted by men in
"rime touch with army circles. The column is nnid to have crossed the inter-
iil . , , l,..,,tn,1 ,vnat nml smith llf TnllimbUS. HI til tllC illtCIltioil of
growing a line of United States soldiers between Villa and the Sierra Mndrc
Mountains, lone n Villa mroiiBnow.
- ! vni ATnviVnn outlaw leader, is hemmed in by Carrnnzn
-,. n.i ., ;,, Phlhimhnn district, and soon will be taken, according
general Gabrnil Gavirn, Cnrrnnza lieutenant stationed at Juarez.
k: rorni Hntiini. Carranzistu leader, is in charge of the troops closing
Rf on the bandit chief nnd liis followers. ... , ,
81 Villa apparently has nnaniionoa ins uasn uinm cue luuumau .u.u..j. i
$ ,. rn.M Grandest nnd is movimr southeastward. It is thought
Iflwlll seek safety in his old mountain strongholds in Chihunliua.
General rrcticrici: runsiun. cuhuhhiiuihu m '"" .. ...u.. ...
fedr, is expected to order the expedition started today or tomorrow. A
feet censorship withholds information of the details.
A converging movement from three points is snid to be the plan of
wapalgn United States forces moving from Columbus, as the center of
Htlvity, El Paso nnd Douglas, or probably Hachita instead of Douglas.
I There are approximately 15,000 troops now on the frontier ready for
fcnrico in 'Mexico.
atm :.. .i,ia nrl rnmmlssarv lnadeouacy arc said to havo
Sto'ed the movement of troops somewhat, although it is stated thnt determ
Sttion to leave the border towns amply protected before making an invasion
Kl'promptcd General Funston's deliberation.
t' General Funston notified the War Department that he was having a
Rite, station installed at Fort Sam Houston, near San Antonio. This
Eterprcted ns meaning that General Funston plans remaining at San
PV ' . ... .,,.. i ,!. .nmnWn in trof. Villa IjV WirOlCSS. '
intonlo ana win uircci uiu .nii"t" r.- - -
r . ,,...: i...ii(n tw. Pros dent Wilson's acceptance of
leal Carranza's rcc in roc hy demand, that Mexican troops be allowed to
toeral Carranza s rcciprocHy , .
&" JM-le, has T al.ryed feiirs that the punitive expedition was really
intervention or invasion. , . , -,
The American reply, granting reciprocity, was received by General
Mt , , ji..ti.. ,,in,-n,i nil nossiblc m tarv and police protection
LWranza, wno lmmcumwiiji -'- -
for Americans in Mexico, i ...,, j
I- TZL trnnnB were reported withdrawing from along the border,
Rmimably to take up the Villa chase. . ,.,..,
llir . . . l.. ...ifinisml in nnnrpssinnnl circles for his
President Wilson was suvuici ..... ... o
eoaceasions to Carranza.
WILLA HEMMED IX BY FOIM'E
)P CARUAXZISTAS, DFA'IVIIES
fflENEUAL OxVVlKA AT JUAUfcZ
EL PASO. Slarch 1 1. dcnornl Cialirnll
Glra, military commandant In Juarez
m commander of llie rnrrnnsn i"i
ci the 'bonier, tndny drclan-d that Knin
tlwj Villa had been trapuod In tho han
ift mountain retreat In thu Gucrrerro
tolrlct. He asserted that tho drraiua
troops hud tho lU8lvo "IMnclm" hemmed
Son ever- Hide.
Ill the first Interview that tho Carranza
tiJtr has fronted Blnce thu folumhiw
gU. he professed confidence that (Villa
would eoon. be captured or hilled. He nald
lt he was thoroURhly t-ntlBfled with tho
bonier situation since his confiirenee with
Oeneral 'ershlne, hut whether Ida forces
Jould co-operate with the American troops
i question ho could not answer. He
Uttd that nrdorH lind not been received
ftom First Chief Carrarfza as to what
Wloii hould b taken.
M VILLA AT QALKANA.
B General Galra disclosed the fact that
III ecouts had located Villa nt Galeana.
."ore )han 30 miles southwest of his
JWVlOUslv rpnnrtp.f tinalHnti nt l7nrrnlltnM.
fcTln Interview with General Oa'vlra took
?k In the headquarters of the com-
fidtnt in Junrfz. fiiirrnitnrlfl hv Ha
pirV etaff and bodyguard. It had been
-wmny arranged by Andreas uarcia,
Contlnlifd on I'aKe I'our, Column Three
AFTER THE RAID BY VILLISTA BANDITS AT COLUMBUS
mymsmmmmfMiusif : ' '"h: 'iWMTfem
jfss. ... .tmx.f&.mwm'm .. ;"? JFmmmwufr ... -?t7s!
mBsszua
sss&ssssaostfi
Bmss&simimft
nc3'2T-
SvXtiix(L i,JiS.jtIX'iB - w' - CrfW'j59;'wfS?
SfSiSS?!?"??
r mrinltn lni 1 1 "r1-TlttT 'i Jw aMHTMI'V i'Jh.f """ "Jt .TA" tV"T
-i3wS- . Jr
RteA'i.
M..iLieiiiSfMr J
wwHr" .iitawiy.iut. vn.Mit. .. v.rr .-r imiiiiiiiivr An jaaiiiitiiiiiiiBM t- -. v v
ffifft-ttfaM -! -i - i ii 1 . hi mhnr-f-rf nlrt iin-nrinii-i v' "K: ....O..w. , .,,.... jj J.in,.i.-S. .. .a...,..M.i.V..,.w.wm-w.wWv, m .hJ
IMiotn by Inlrrmttkmal nim Hi rvii
The picture above shows a raider overtaken and slain by members of the New Mexico Border Patrol. Be
low Mexican horses shot from under their riders.
THE WEATHER
A lerlOUS mlstflltA wrh mnda hv tlin tier.
Jtii who originated such days as around
Jft Day and St Bwlthln's pay, on which
There should hae been a slgn-
r? "Jj Pr two scattered through March.
i9.CUlda th nlntlltlfr mnfnla .llfplnp. IhA
fffljettted weather That this Is a vital
KM l eroved by the mendacity of the
If" "com Wte unreliable. Perhaps, It
K?'4 t0 oIt ae- The result Is that to,
2', '"' 0Ba dares venture a prediction
rrt..' "ie 'uture has In store, from
.. J'. rlaa t0 y hat because a,
PX blacksnake stirred his emaciated
SJ his crevice on the south Bide of
&vr tlw Pocono Mountains Important
,! coming
FORECAST
Kft.fyfotMphta and vicinity Un-
: wmgni ana weaneway with
UOil rain n iim,f, , mili o77-
tonfo(f about J1 or US ilenreea?
. - ..th.vvw.
faf A tlttlr1a ..nnjf.. ..ull.. I
SOST AHD rOUND
5A1&fc?," Tu evnU. March 7t ta
Kt,r.i0.n 5 iamood nl pUtluum br
(tefiaTi,k .' . intrBW w r- .
ftl i lljl av.. aa ovaj
U f"fcI' pjrrt.nn.ifn ay i prui.
ttlurae.! to -ItfH IIul ave.
' Li aui FuonJ A4 a.u l'uia IS
15,000 TROOPS OX IIORDfill
KEADVF0R MEXICAN DASH x
TO CATCH VILLA'S OUTLAWS
fOM-'MHUS. '. M., March 13.
Final orders for the Villa hunt were
In General Kunston'a hands today. Word
wan momentarily expected of the Ameri
can march Into Mexico. Telegraph wires
hummed with tho details of the punitive
expedition.
A few isolated American troops already
hae touched Mexican soil. It is thought,
hut army olllrer8 believe the start of the
main expedition urder General Pershing
from Columbus will not occur before to
morrow. General Pershing was due to
arrive at Columbus' this afternoon from
131 Paso.
15.000 TitOOPS NOW ItBADY.
Border reports that Cnrranza forces
were mobilizing and threatening arn ed
teslstanue to the American expedition
were declared by ofllclala to be somewhat
exaggerated. While not assured that Car
ranza's troops would co-operate In the
Villa hunt. It was confidently believed they
would not be ordered to oppose the United
States troopers.
Tho United States forces may finally
be much larger than originally planned.
It was hinted today. The three expeditions
tentatively agreed on. It Is said, from Co
lumbus, El Paso nnd Douglas or Hachita,
may be swelled to 1S.0Q0 men.
It was believed certain th.e main, expe
dition would drive south from Columbus,
headed by Pershing, This Is the most dl
rect route as the crow files and over a
splendid trail. Six miles opposite, at Las
Palomas, 1500 Carranza troops were re
ported waiting whether to Join or oppose
the Americans was not known.
Carranza, troops 'were today showing
more activity In northern Mexico and near
the border than for months past.
A concentration of Carranzlstas was
taking place at Nacozarl, 75 miles south
of Douglas. Information received from
Chihuahua City was that a detachment
of 500 cavalrymen had left for the Casas
Grander and Galeqni. districts' to protect
American Mormon colonists and attempt
to cut Villa's flight in that direction.
General Canuto Reyes and 3500 men,
accoidlng to another report were said to
be In the Torreon region endeavoring tq
Join forces with Vlllai Reyes has under
him a good part of the former Vlllista
troops, who cut their way through the
Carranza ynes and inarched almost up to
the gates of Mexico City during the
height pf the Vlllista rebellion against
Carranza'8 rule,
Rodolfo Flerrero, Villa's butcher, sev
eral ttmea reported killed. Is now reported
to be a member of Reyes' column.
No direct news has come from the 500
men, women and children I,-, the Mormon
colonies since Sunday OIHclals of the
Church In Kl Paso state today that the
absence of reports from them Indicated
no disaster had overtaken the colonists.
Brigadier General John J. Pershing has
left Kl Paao and taken command at a
point on the herder of the troops which
he will lead in pursuit of Francisco Villa
and his bandit raiders
from all parts of the country troops
continue to mats toward the International
boundary Hue for the drive that promises
GERMANT0WN APPEAL
FOR SALOON CLOSINGS
REJECTED BY C0UT
Remonstrances Carry No
Weight Because They Make
No Specific Charges,'
Say Judges
PUT IN WASTE BASKET
Tho principle of "local option." tho ef
ficacy of protests from a neighborhood
against continuing saloons In business, re
ceived a second rot-back today. Judges
Darratt and Davis In tho J.lcenio Court
refused to hear remonstrances collected
by the No-License League of Gcminntown
In nn effort to rid tho 22d Ward of
saloons on the ground they were "not nec
essary." Tho court's refusal was based on the
statement that tbcro was no Jurisdiction,
and that unless specific remonstrances al
leging a violation of tho law on tho pait
of saloon owners was presented to tho
court. It had not tho power to refuso to
renew the license.
Walter L. Sheppaid, attorney for the
3770 residents of Gormnntown who had
signed remonstrances ngalnst 5 of tho
saloons there, argueil for an hour against
City Solicitor Connelly nnd M. J. Mc
Knery. who represented the saloon proprie
tors. In behalf of the signers' right to
have the remonstrances heard. The argu
ments and Mr Sheppard's explanations
to the Judges were warm at times. After
the court declined to hear the remon
strances, Mr Sheppard asked for tho fil
ing of a memorandum setting forth the
reasons for the refusal, so that the case
could be appealed to the Superior Court.
This was also contested.
The Gennantown league had been work
ing for more than a month In the belief
that a great remonstrance against re.
licensing the saloons there would carry
weight with the court. Their situation to
day was similar to that of residents of
West Philadelphia, whose so-called "local
Continued on Paie Two, Column Two
FRENCH REPULSE
GERMAN ATTACKS
ON WOEVRE LINE
Teuton Assaults North of
Verdun, in Haudremont
ForGst, Also Fail
KAISER AT WEST FRONT
, PARIS, March H.
Tho violent artillery duel on tho Verdun
front continues. Nn extensive Infantry
operations, developed during the night, but
n German reconnaissance In Haudremont
fotpst was chfcliiMl by tho French artil
lery, according to the ofllclnl communique
.i.sHiud this afternoon
Tho text of tho communique follows:
West of the Mcuse tho cannonade
woh rather violent during tho night.
On the right hank a strong recon
naissance by the enemy In Haudre
mont forest was checked by our cur
tains of fire.
TI10 bombardment continued lo!ent
In tho region of Vnux and Dnmtoup
In the Woevre region tho nrtlllery
1111 tho two sides was active, particu
larly In tho sector of Klx. No Im
portant development is reported.
In Le Pretre forest a German de
tachment, which attempted a surprise
nttack on our trenches at Croix Des
Onrmes, was met with a fusillade
which scattered the attacking force,
which left soma dead on the ground.
Tho night was quiet on the rest of
the front.
A shortage of officer! due to recent
heavy losses at Verdun. Is causing the
German General Staff much worry, accord
ing to Rome dispatches today. AH Ger
man ofllcers under the rank of captain,
now In the Ralknns, have been ordered to
return to the western front, it was stated.
One, hundred thousand additional
troops havo arrived behind tltp German
Continued on I'ura Sit, Column Ope
WIFE ASKS $100,000
IN SUIT, SAYING WOMAN
STOLE HUSBAND'S LOVE
Mrs. Bentley L. Rinehart Ac
cuses Anna Ethel Perry
of Alienating His
Affections
SAYS HE GAVE HOUSES
Mrs. rtertha May Rlnehnrt, of ifith nnd
Chestnut streets, entered suit ngaulst
Anna Klhcl Perry, of 1027 Chestnut street,
In Court of Common Picas No. 2 tod.iy.
charging tho defendant with tho wilful
alienation of tho affections of her hus
band, llentley L. Rlnehnrt.
l-'or tho alleged deprivation of the loo,
help and society of her husband, Mrs.
Rinehart nsks for an award of $100,000
damages. Her affidavit, setting forth tho
grievances of her married life slurp, ns
she says, "auotlier wniiinn" appeared 011
t)ie scene five yeura iigo, wn'i presented to
Judge Wesse, and 11 capias was Issued for
tho arrest of the defendant, ball being
fixed In the sum of $1500.
An unusual proceeding wns tho filing of
a petition by Mrs Rinehart to obtain a
decree, that n 'cautionary Judgment" In
tho sum of 110,000 should bo filed ngalnst
four properties, which, It Is alleged, tho
defendant reccied as presents from Mr.
Rlnehnrt as tho result of her blandish
ments and persuasho powers oer him.
It Is explained In tho papers filed -that
the plaintiff wus married 10 Rlnohait in
1900 nnd that their domestic life was
serene and happy until November, l!)U.
Continued on I'aie Three, Column Two
Aged Painter Hurt in Fall
MHDIA. Pa.. March 14 Amor Suter,
a 70-year-old painter here, fell from a
porch roof today and pulled u ladder which
was on the roof and one standing upon tho
ground 011 top of him. lie dislocated his
shoulder in the fall and the two ladder.s
broke four of his ribs when they fell on
him.
PRESBYTERIANS HERE
TO INVITE DR. WYLIE
Iowa City Pastor to Receive
Call to St.
Paul's
CoiitUiutd oa ? f your. C'clinaa Qm
The Rev, Dr. Dwlght W. Wylle. pastor
of the First Presbyterian Church, ipwa
fltv la will be voted a call to become
pastor g'f St Paul's Presbyterian Church.
60th street and Baltimore uenue at a
meeting of the congregation tonight.
This big church, which la one of the
leading congregations n Philadelphia, has
been vlthout a pastor for nearly two
years. The last pastor was the Rev. Dr,
J Beverege Lee. who resigned following
a long-drawn-out factional controversy In
the congregation.
Doctor Wylle. who Is considered one of
the strongest PrehbUerlan clergymen In
the Mpe West, preached In St. Paul's
on February ST. and since that time plans
have been In progress to extend him a
call. During the summer of 1913 and 191
he supplied the pulpit of the. church, and
became so popular with the members that
since It had been learned that he would
probably accept a call there has been
virtually a. unanimous moement afoot to
try to procure him to lead the flock.
Ha 1b a native of Ohio, and was grad
uated from Wooster University, Ohio,
and the McCormlck Theological Seminary,
Chicago. During the- last years, he
baTs?rve4 s P"Ur the Iowa City
Church,
GIRL SAYS SIX YOUTHS
FORCED HER TO GARAGE
Attacked on 42d Street Near
Walnut, She Asserts One
Suspect Under Arrest
Ope young man Is under arrest and the
police expect to unest five others suspect
ed or having atficked 17-year-old Helen
Conway, at 4Sd and Walnut streets, late
last night. She usserts that six young men
set upon her and dragged her to a garage,
on 42d street below Walnut, which was
recently swept by tire and Is unoccupied
pending reconstruction.
Miss Conway, who lives at 836 North
4 2d street, was on her way to meet her
sister, a telephone operator. She said
one young man accosted her, and as she
tried to get away from him five others
prevented her escape.
A pedestrian, who witnessed the al
leged attack, culled Patrolman Mumford,
whose arrival at the garage frightened the
youths away and the girl was sent to her
home. She said that she recognized one
of her assailants as a clerk in a grocery
store at 39th and Aspen streets.
District Detectives Gariner and J tar
bridge, of the 39th street and Lancaster
avenue station, went to the store and ar
rested Wilbur Mercer. IS years old. of
363 i Aspen street. The youth Is said by
the police to have admitted that he was ,u
the crowd which Miss Conway alleges at
tacked her. He was held without ball by
Magistrate Stevenson for a further bear.
Ins next Tuesday,
MAYOR'S BUTLER NOW
ELEVATOR INSPECTOR
Smith Provides City Job for
Former House Servant at
Yearly Salary of $1000
The butler who has been In the employ
of Mayor Thomas IJ. Smith for several
years has been rewarded by un appoint
ment as elevator Inspector. The appoint
ment Is only proWslonul, as the Civil Serv
ice Commission will not hold an examina
tion for the position, which pays J 1000 a
year, until March 20
The Citizens' Republican League, which
Is headed by ex-Director of Public Safety
Porter. John C. Winston and Powell
tivans. today issued a statement calling
attention Jo the fact that the Mayor's but
ler had been given a city Job.
The butler's nume Is Herman Smith.
His address Is officially stated In the rec
ords of the Department of Public Safety
as 2444 North Broad Street, the Mayor's
own address. Herman Smith was also
employed, with his wife, at the Mayor's
Gleuslde home, and it was he whq signed
the receipt for the special delivery letter
sent to the Mayor at Uleuside during the
campaign last fall by George II. Porter,
and which Porter used as the basis for bis
attack upon Mr. Smith's residence
The league's action In issuing the state
meat was regarded as another indirect at
tack upon the Smith adin'nlntratUm by
Senator Penrose, as the league was or
ganized as an adjunct to the Penrose
forces.
QUICK NEWS
ALLIES WILL FINANCE PORTUGAL
. . ..... . . .. ..., ,-,. .1.- T...J11 1. r UA. -Rjria.".
I.ON.DDN. iunicll 11.- sir luwiuu uiey, uie .uruisii jcottiuu i'"ui
later, nnnoiilicetl In Commons torlny tlmt Portugal has been assured
iv tim AltlM iif nil tlie 'fillfulclnl nltl she needs to carry on War
ngnlntt Gcriiinny.
4;
red
var
DANES i'OUCED INTO GERMAN ARMY KILLED AT FRONT
LONDON. March H. All Exchange Tolcgtnph dispatch from
Copr-.ihrtgcn says H Is officially announced" that 2300 Danes have been
killed while 'gVng for Gormniiy since the outbreak or the wnr. They
were foiced by comnuJEory service to enlist, being- residents or Ger
many, when the wnr broke out,
ILLNESS HALTS TWO CAMDEN COURTS
Tun Cnindcn Judges nro confined to their homoa sufTcrlnR from illness. A4
n result. Hip District Court nnd Court of Chancery nrc closed. Vlco Chancellor
Kihvnrit 11. Learning, who recently returned from PlnohurRt, N. C, ia now nt
his homo III with tho grip. It is n slight attack, tho physicians say, and ha
will noon be nblo to henr arguments In tho Court of Chnncory. Tho othor Jurist
Is District Court .ludgo William French, who is suffering from a cold.
AMERICAN LINER DELAYED BY U-BOATS
NRW YOItlC, March 14. -Tho American liner St. Paul, which nrrlvod today!
from l.Uerpool, wns held up a day becauso of tho presonco of German sub
marines off tho mouth of tho Mersey IUvcr, and wns finally convoyed to aoa
by a warship.
ARMY OPENS NEW RECRUITING STATIONS
Orders to open two new recruiting olllccs, ono In Reading, tho other In
Trenton, wcro received today by Cnptnln A. A. King1, ofllcor In charge- of
rcerultlng for tho Philadelphia district, at tho United States army oITlco, 1223
Arch street. Tho order to open tho new offices Is attrlhutod to tho Mexican
Mtuatlon. Developments in Mexico nnd tho Increasingly bright prospect of
nctlvo service thcio has stimulated recruiting, Cnptnln King says. Fivo men
were accepted by tho Philadelphia offlco during tho morning.
JAPAN DENIES SEPARATE PEACE PLAN, PAPER SAYS
TOKIO, Maj-'di 14. Tho Japan Times says that tho Foreign Ofllco abso
lutely denies reports that Japan Is seeking a separate poaco and also a rovlslon
of tho nlllnnce with England.
WAR HAS COST FRANCE SEVEN BILLION DOLLARS
PARIS, Mnroh 14. At the end of Juno tho war will havo cost Franca
$7,400,416,006, according to nn estimate, furnished to tho Chamber of Deputies
today by tho Budget Commission. Tho Imposition of now taxes to meat tho
Increasing burden Is strongly urged. From April to June, It is estimated, th
wnr will cost Franco $17,400,000 dally.
GERMANS DENY BAVARIANS SUFFERED GREAT BOSSES
AMSTERDAM, March 14. Addressing tho Chamber, tho Bavarian War
Minister declared rfcmors circulated In foreign countries that Bavarian troop's
had Buffered enormous losses In tho Verdun fighting wero exaggerated. "The)
nnturo of tho fighting mnltes tho ndvancea necessarily slow," he said. "Our
successes, too, havo not been accomplished without victims. Our brave
Bavarians havo Buffered with tho others, but most certnlnly not to tho extent
pictured In foreign press reports."
BRITISH FLIERS BRING DOWN FOE'S AIRCRAFT
LONDON', March 14. A British official statement Issued Inst night says: "Yes.
tardiiy there was much aerial nctlvity on both sides. Thirty-two hostile machines
wero engnged. Ono wns driven down near Lille and a second shot down In our
lines. Today another German machlno was forced to descend in our lines." ,.
BRITAIN REDUCES ARMY SERVICE EXEMPTION
LONDON, March 14. Tho Government has Issued a revised list of occupa
tions, employment In which by workmen exempts them fiom army service. Tho
revision is In accordanco with recommendations mndo recently by the Earl of
Derby, and provides that In future only those men will be exempted from military
service who wero employed similarly prior to August 15 last. As far as possible
tho exemptions of those claiming to hold positions of considerable responsibility
will bo limited to married men over 30 yeatu of nge, younger married men to bo
retained on tho reservo list only In thoso occupations which nro vital to the
conduct of tho war. Industrie.) concerned In tho manufacture of luxuries, such
as tobacco, slllc and lace, havo been eliminated from the reserve list.
TURKS IN ASIA MINOR DEMAND NEW RULERS
LONDON. March 14. An Athens dispatch to Router's Telegram Company1
says thnt, ncco.-dlng to information received thero by letter from Constantinople,
tho populations of Hrussn, Konleh ana other cities of Asia Minor havu ad
dressed memorials to Prince Vnhld Bddlne, the Turkish heir apparent, begging
him to urgo upon the Sultan tho necessity of changing the present government.
In order to piopare tho wuy for the conclusion of a separate peace by Turkey
with tho Entente Powers
DANES DENY GERMANS SEEK WEST INDIES
COPENHAGEN, March 14. Tho Danish Foreign Offico denies the report
thnt Get many has offere' $20,000,000 for the Danish West Indies. The American
Minister, Dr. Maurice Egan, also has taken occasion to say there is not the
slightest foundation in this report. In the opinion of tho Danish Government,
the value of the Islands has creatly increased since the opening of the Panama
Canal, and the sum suggested vould be regarded as entirely inadequate.
ALLEGED SHIP PLOTTER HELD IN $25,000 BAIL
NEW YORK, March 14. Paul Daeche, who was Indicted with Lieutenant
Robert Fuy and othors In an alleged conspiracy to destroy ships carrying
munitions from New York to the Allies, has been held in $25,000 bail. Daeche
was originally arretted In New Jersey, nnd fought the transfer of his case to
this Jurisdiction. Assistant United States District Attorney -John C. Knox says
he hopes to bring the alleged conspirators to trial in April.
ADMIRAL VON TIRPITZ ILL
AMSTERDAM, March 14. A dispatch from, Berlin states that Admiral von
Tlrpltz has been 111 for some days and that tho business of the Admiralty is
being conducted by the officer next in seniority,
BULGARS REFUSE TO AID GERMANS IN WEST
GENEVA, March 14. Germany has requested Bulgaria to send (wo divisions
(nearly 60,000 men) to the French front, according, to Information received hera
from Bucharest. The Bulgarian Government declined, the advices state, owios..
to the uncertain attitude of Rumania.
910,000,000 OF U. S. SECURITIES SEIZED BY BRITISH
LONDON. March 14. The Foreign Qmce, states that the ErlUsh have stopped
to date American securities valued at about 2.000,090 ($10,000,000) on their wa
from Germany to America. Tl?e Government, the Foreign Office says, will con
tinue to search mails on neutral boats for contraband, but will pot interfere with
correspondence.
r ,
TRUCKS COLLISION BLOCKS TRAFFIC
Trolley service at Germantown ami Allegheny avenues was blocked for mora
than 36 minutes today following a (gguioM at that point between two truck.
A truck belonging to Armour & Co. and driven by John Etrassmo-n collided witk
a coal truck belonging to Beck & Qf, Strassmau was thrown from his Bat tft
the street. He received laceratlonof the scalp. A passing autoiuofciU stofjun
and took him to the Samaritan HospltaiC
r
rWfev-Jt...
