A1, T'e LjeJ 4NG TODAY'S 7-COLUMN
fun . ,,ys wo.th to tPchas,,s HERALD
of articles advertised in the dciay I epvs euto ae-- r
colua.ns of this paper by any Was. a y eduenon ade
ington merchant. "I the. fact that ou~r regular eibt.
(C~rculT FHsug Un Ai---t) coumns presses are in process of re.
LrcuN Fuhed Upon Request). moral to the new Herald Building.
NO. 3435. WEATHER-PROBABLY RAIx. WASHINGTON, D. C.. TUESDAY. MARCH 14, 1916. ONE CENT.
BIG GUN DUEL
ECLIPSES ALL
WAR EFFORTS
Thousands of Great Cannon
Roar Ceaselessly Over Fifty
mile Front at Verdun.
GERMANS - RE-ENFORCED
100,000 Additional Troops
Shifted to Take Part in
Great Attack.
KAISER AGAIN VISITS FRONT
So Tremendous Is Gunfire that Whole
Villages Have Been Wiped Out.
New Attacks Expected.
Ereeiat rabl to The Washigiton Hramd.
Paris, March 21.-Thousands of guns to
night are engaged on the flifty-mile driv
Ing front around Verdun in a due[ so
terrifl' that the deep reverberations are
heard In the environs of Paris itself.
Every available German Hlowitzer is
beinz brought in tear against the great
fo-tris against which for twenty-two
sivs. the Germans have been launching
the fPll strength of their armies. The
French. suppliei with mountains of
soalls, are reol. inq. gun for gun.
The German emperor has returned to
.'!, front for the final and greatest Ger
ian effort azainst Verdun, which it Is
,expcted sill be made within the next
forty-eight hours.
1100.004) Mioer Men ArrIve.
ca linet tonight that Im00m addi
I na troops. including the Trprial
(mard. t- 'orns d'olite of the German
arny. have arrived behind the German
font for the final terrific smash. The
ist I!n in, do n-w reserves of the
,as of 1916, many of whom are boys
tnfantry of both armies are hurrowed
deep in their shelter trenches to escape
the effects of the mighty bombardment.
the transcendent artillery effort of the
war. For miles around the ground is
ploughed and furrowed by the hurricane
of steel. Verdun itself is a shambles of
.hattered buildings and the debris of
. 1M. Forest, have been reduced to
nlnteiA -i 1hills s ' t ;wa.
it is th- l.lief of miftloary critis that
the Gernans are determined to blast
the Freneh defenses with such a storm
,, steet that wide breaches will be cut
fo- the infantry when the moment of
mssault comes.
Four Towns Destrnyed.
T- iwwns haxe vanished from the
.n ,eforo the fire of the German bat
'er Ei'v. ohainvitle. ramoiup and
tte. nerth and cast f Verdun have
en sattered 71e chaf. Not a buildling
-tind, Hardly a stone I rnains upon a
Tie nTivinight war lffi- :eport states
' at during the day the hombardment
attained its greatest int, sity in the
region West of the Meiuse, where the Ger
ma.ns are sweeping Deadt Man lill and
Tangmars Woods iBois Bourrui with a
rnado of shells. The French batteries.
r;, lying. are doing greet execution
among the Gorman forces assembling
aetween Forges and the Corbeaux Wood.
The Germans' hold on some of their ad
vancet positions in this region. It Is
stated, has been weakened by the furl
is French fire.
N. inrfa! try action has occurred at any
s5rtion of the front during the day, the
midnight communique adds, although,
from the sea to Alsace, there has been
Incessant artlilery firing.
Fighting on 200-mille Line.
Ti-e weather is ideal for observations
sod the aviators and gunners of both
armics are iollahorating in a great ef
fat. For some than "M miles along the
anding lanes in Northern France field
z ins and Howitzers are combining in a
terrifIc cannonade.
(n the preiouis day the Fronh. I v
,tdden attack In I, Protre forest.
perled 24 yards of trenches In the vi
einity of Croix des Charmes, but later
returned to their own lines. A German
movement in Alsace. launched with the
object of regaining the trenches lost last
n cek to the French near Seppois, was
halted in Its inoeption by the French bar
ter fire.
Military experts here express the ut
most confidence in the results at Ver
dun.
Officti w ar office estimates of the Ger
man losses thus far in the Verdun fight
ing place them at not less thant 20000.
The French casualties are said to be
about 40,00AO
"Teddy Bear" Creator Dies.
Philadelphia, March 13.-Seymour Ea
ton. widely known writer and advertis
ing agent, today died at hIs home.
Lansdowne. Pa. Mr. Eaton was the
founder of the Booklovers and Tabard Inn
libraries. He was the creator of the fa
mous Teddy Bears.
Lipton Still Covets Cup,
London. March 13.-SIr Thomas Lip
ton. In a letter to the vice cominodore
of the Essex Yacht Club, states that,
the hopes to sail in the AmerIca cup'
race next year.
Turkish Pauliament Closed.
'onstantinople. Mtarch 1:t.-The Turkish
oparllament has been closed by a decree
Spanish War Veterans
Asked to Make Ready
Spedal to The Washinaton Herald.
New York, March 13.-A gen
eral call to United States war
veterans was issued today by
William F. Leuper, commander
of Defendam Camp, No. 36,
United Spanish War Veterans.
Commander Leuper declared
that current events make it im
perative that all veterans should
now communicate with the com
manders of veteran naval and
military organizations so that a
list of valuable men can be ob
tained.
SEVEN FIGHTS
HIGH IN AIR
Eastern Section of French
Front Scene of Daring
Aeroplane Battles.
GERMAN WINNERS THREE
TIMES OVER DEFENDERS
French Claim Control of Air Over
Verdun-Weather Keeps Bird
men on Qui Vive.
SPecial Cte to Th. Wahigton Herald.
London, Marth 13.-No less than seven
air fights to the drath have been fought
within a da- over the eastern section
of the French front. In these combats
three German machines have been shot
down in the region of Verdun, while the
French have lost four. One of the French
aeroplanes was sent hurting to the
ground in the Meuse sector, the other
three in Champagne, according to a Ber
in statement.
The French control the air over Ver
dun, according to an ofticial claim made
in Paris tonight. The statement says
that the advantage "is indisputably with
the French."
It relates that on account of the im
proved weather conditions, the airmen
of both armies are unusually active, and
reports a rAid of six aeroplanes in Bri
culles, where bombs were dropped on the
railway station.
The Berlin statement aleo reports a
successful raid by German aviators.
After much recqnnoitestng," it say.I
or airmen attnked enemy railway sta
tions and military depots, especially the
i lernmont-Verdun railway line, with suc
cres."
Aviators Offer
To Fight Mexico
New York Aero Club Mobiliz
ing Under Carranza's For
mer Aerial Commander.
1specal to The wa.hingtrn Herald.
New York, March 11.-A- a means of
meetirg the emergency, should it arise.
tho Aero Club today began the work of
mobilizing aviators to accompany the
American troops into Mexico. W. Leon
ardl Bonney, formerly commander of
Carranza's aviation forces, is directing
the mobilization.
A telegram wa.s sent to the Secretary
of War offering the aid of the club in fur
nishing aviators and machines. Secre
tary Baker replied that the Mexican ex
pedition has all the neroplanes it needs.
The following aviators have volunteered
their services:
Capt. Ralph F. McMillen. It. Roy
Waite, Robert G. Fowler, who flew across
the Isthmus of Panama; John G. Gilpat
rick. B. B. Lewis, S. S. Pierce, F. J.
Jaquith and Beryl IT. Kendrick. who
flew last year from Albany to Ocean
City, Md. -
Allies' Meeting
Proves Stormy
Twenty-one Persons Ejected
Before Quiet Can Be Had
in New York Hall.
" 4cal to 'n, waoi;gt, Heraltl. 1
New York. March y1-Sympathizers
with the Allies, under the leadership of
Col. George Haven Putnam undertook to
hold a meeting in Carnegie Hail to-1
night. Sympathizers with Germany un
dertook to ruffle the harmony. The re- I
suit was a mild imitation of Donnybrook
fair. I
Someone telephoned the West 47th
Street Police Station at 7 o'clock In them
evening to the effect that an attempt I
would be made to blow up the hail with
a bomb. Swarms of detectives flocked
to the scene. The only bombs to be dis
covered however, were oratorical ones.
The meeting was under the auspices
of the American Rlights Committee,
which is frankly in favor of the United
States joining the allies.
Major Putman, who occupied the chair
swooped down on 21 partIcularly trouble
commenced. At last he shouted:
"I cail upon guardians of this city to 1
protect us in this meeting."1
.No sooner had he spoken than polie
swooped down on 21 particularly troubble- I
some men and ejeeted them from the I
building.
Villa Flees to -Native Hills
As U.S.Troops Make Ready
To Follow Trail of Death
Bandit Leaves Bloody Traces All Through Country as He
Makes for Boyhood Haunts in Guerrero-Pershing and
Staff Go to Columbus, Preparatory to Dash.
(By DAMON IRUNYON.) -always toward his home hills, where
ftedal to The Washinston Herald. he hopes to find sanctuary.
El paso, March 1.-Moving as swiftly Aguila said that Gen. Cavasos, with
and as unerringly as a homing pigeon, the party of 600 men was hurrying north
Francisco Villo continues his flight south- from Casa. Grandes in an effort to
ward towards the mountains of his boy- head off the bandit, but so far as the
hood country in Guerrero. American troops are concerned. Villa will
Meantime the first of the American have a wide jump before they get mov
columns of horse, foot and guns which ing.
will pursue the bandit, is picking itself It is still belived by some that he is
together out of a confusion of dust and bearing down upon Cases Grandam. nine
camp equipage at the little town of Col- ty-five miles from Columbus and the
umbus, N. M., while a body of Carranza home of 54O Mormon colonists, to strike
tvrops io working northward from Cam"~ It a slashing blow in his passage.
Grandes trying to cht the trail of the All kind of reports are heard regarding
flying outlaw. t these Mormons. That Villa lay In wait
At a moment when it was being sug-: it Ituzman. en the railroad expecting
gehted in some quarters that the Amen- their train and that later he cut the tele
cans were borrowing from the Mextcan graph line at Carrollto when he heard
book of "Maana" in getting their chase they were not coming, is generally cred
3t Villa started, Brig. Gen. John J. Porsh-! ited.
Ing and his staff suddenly departed hBishop W. P. eurt. of the Mormon
for Columbus this afternoon and by to- Church with headquarters in El Prro.
morrow night or Wednesday he probably Casavs that the Mormons are all
will have crossed the border, o armed and that he belives they Wil
Col. Aguila. commanding a detachment march out across the desert. protecting
At Memontoo eat alsne sent themselves as best they can. hut Gen.g
word today that Villa was somer sixty Gavtira in command of the carrenza
miles south of Columbus, the scene of forces at Juare. declares that the (hr
the recent attack, and that he was dnlv- I onists are safe under the guns of h
ing away toward the south-always south B soldiers at Cases Hrandes.
General Pershing Gives Interview
To Group of Newspaper Writers
Gafir claims lie has strong garri- planes from San Antoey are en route.
sons at both Casas Grandes and Pear!i The fact that Carrnoa troops seem
son, and that Vitla would iot dare' to be moving northward with Villa on
inake an attardk at eoth-r place. 'the wing for the south. avid the added
Gen. Perhing aine down town at fact that Gen. Bertait has 2.000 men
noon today to keep an appointmWnt at Lar alomas. opposite Columbus.
made the night before with the news- may have had much to do with the
paper correspondents, to discuss withl hurrying of the plans for the mobolza
them the regulations that would be tionat Colum hus.
nakoed uon atackeat ccit p the wCarranga officers and men are report
invading column. ed t hat ben Bertninhas at me
As he steppcd into the lobby of theao m t La Palomas, ipposrte Coumu
iote, Pso el ort. i fild nifrmboundary line two miles south of Colum
mn was surrounded by twenty-five or s m hav had mc to do wthnth
pelrty newspapermen. who began ith
showerlig questions upon him. At ravaged little town, and viilanmce
.At time the general had not heard awainist any attempt by the MexteaJ9
lefinitely that he would be In nsm- against th American camp has ben
mand of nhe expedition, hut when one doubled.
A the newspapermen infoi ed him of Troops are patrolg the streets Of El
he official order, he smiled, and Was Paso tonight. They appeared early In
ipparently much gratified, the afternoon, although there has been
Perehing then did not have any idea no trouble and no excitement here. The
inen ie would move, or from what people are doing a great deal of specu
toint, and there was the same uncer- lating ag to the result of Pershing's for
ainty around Fort Binms. The orders m l entry into li'xic but It Is nt be
o Poere must hdve come soon after lieved that it will cause anv disorder
vis visit to the hotel, as at 4 o'clock among the big Mexican Population of
he general and his staff left FortIthe Gate City. The pawn shops and
tlis for Camp Cotton. : hardware stores Of the town have been
A special troop train bearing the doing F rushing busineas lately in fire
;ixteenth Infantry went out soon af- arms, however, and apparently many
erward, and at Camp Cotton a special dwellings are well fortified. It Is claimed
ar for Gen. Pershing was attached to that the Mexican reeidents, too. are weli
he second section. equipped. Yesterday there was a general
The Sixth Infantry reached Colum- bief that the American columns would
>us at 3:30 o'clock this afternoon withbe resisted from the moment they cross
'o. 7 Field Hospital. The Seventh d the border. ut events of the last
avalry is on the way to Columbus twelve hours seem to have reassured
hrou Douglas. Ariz.. and the aero- every be.
Craaarranza General Has Long Talk
With Pershing About Campaign
Gen. Pershing came to the Del "ort"ed y toor be lit aihen it is exateted
oi the first of tie American troopers will
o~rvae lttle town andppeme thigimrance
rom a conference with Gen. Gabrielride his mount itte Mexican soil, Perh
avira at the Mexican consulate. 'n a ill have the First, Thirteenth and
The conference was in connection with tregirents. two squadrons of the
avr and his offiners. Twelfth. the Senth and the Tenthe
Much secrecy surrounded the couer-all ca ry-beresuta ing's
mal. entr int Mwaco but at isnte
nue.but t ws lint{n up by a iessag Sixth aiid tie Sixteenth Infantry and the
Glen. Per,,hinge that President Wilsoi signal and hospital corpse.
ad acceded to the request of the Car- it Ir ot likelo that te first column
anza government to he permitted t0~tol inclusd anything but cavalry, but.
ursue bandlits from Alexicop into theleven so. cavalry, must move slowly as
nited State- should occasion arise. compared to the unhampered Villa, fa
Glen. (lavira, ctime over from Juurez i I muiller wit~h ever%, loot of the country
i automobile . accompanied by the ma- !thrwelings i te hfr fted. N lmerous
r o f i to w n . M . M . P r it 1. a n d S e N - 4 1 1 :l i s "w1hoa k n e t , ilia h o n e C o l -
rial 11idF. (;en. Pershing had reached try as elt Yas othr parts of Mexi
he cuisultbte shertly before, unacco l-throu;;li which the columns must moul
stiled. The general was In field uni- are reing cimphe by the acmy and are
rm. iliselayedh no side arms, eut carried'expected to e, of breat assiostancea
riding crop In his hand with which he Capt. Shelletarr was today named
onstantly flilcked hl, riding boots in alas oflil censor for the expedition, and
ervous manner. G niei haHndl all tk' IN a sett hack by the
Ge is P pleasaint mannered man with a Corrmsporros attahied to the xolumnt
onnent sthe, ndanerm thistonsn tht the firsthat the Amercnsoroper willb
lavhraut reevehe xhcn coneulatespasint wtit hand theist, Thiteenthb perd
The matterenc was miinr monecintEghhrgments. tanb twoe Viladron inklihe
ain theissbt o ffhieertur Twfthe semvents and cthe ent
Muc Crcrecy troode the arfre.r- at car-esitdaes sual, ut thel
nd that persibit iha Peierally son signwd and hspita Tieorp. oesina
is bceieed tha the chses or thelCa. sht i ftierh tthmeru virstoudesn
ilanza aoenwere fom neemt to ill ncheludeanyin aceut sorryt quit,
'urtsue badturmAeioit h vn thin, cavaet down. v loya
nieted Dtateys, soul ocasn to se flfa omparne ped to th nhm eek Villf-1
rofai to. .. Marc Pr-ith adlr. icans. Mwl knowTie ial hoe coun.
he. the3 minssrsing hadte ~.0 r-r~r 1a wret. asniverit of Miscon
bnslte yhEdwin beorype, uaccorthnirounderhindcteoun fort muove
.ian. Thaegenea found inha eeun- dro his swloee the Marmand Lamre
rdeng op u nl hi and rw.it. Palmer erCat. ofLaeenrest wils mu toda -me
Srvus Cityner ,will hositivaly moro mrnn w ber Judge bydth
Ifentis lesn mned bymaon h n ih a rdesonnt autan.e oth oun
vinrymle, asnd. anlers areAmtionisah toah the nosipnillet
.hen medspatteedo Ihtyeovement, witte thade andh ive i exene toklbe
Thein phca asblt had hisel caprenie.the ysdeents.il Raeng usent
oyeCaanardointh acongar ftre, ony ansue toaeashesuase put ther
twlo is ouri.where fro ons e fo six antid coer hl the horeeaaen terr wil ugt
eboinonths, tta unti tig zaietdon
Baker Lays Campaign
Plans Before Wilson
President Wilson and Secre
tary of 'War Baker had an
hour's conference at the White
House last night. Secretary
Baker placed before the Presi
dent all the dispatches received
from Gen. Funston during the
day. It was believed he gave
the President the coniplete
plans for the army expedition
against Villa as outlined to the
War Department by Gen. Fun
ston.
When lie was lcasing tie
White House at 9 o'clock, Sec
retary Baker said:
"If the troops have crossed
the border, I havd not been in
formed.
Previously Secretary Baker
had been reminded that he had
promised to notify the press
when the first troops went
across.
"No, I didn't promise that,"
Mr. Baker said. "What I proni
ised was that I would tell you
when I had been advised the
troops had crossed.
BODIES CHOKE
RIVER TIGRIS
Euphrates, Too, Carries Off
Thousands of Bodies of
Slain Armenians.
TURKISH SOLDIERS TELL
OF HORRIBLE TORTURES'
Women Killed as They Beg for Mercy.
Mothers Drown Babes to Save
Them Torture.
Special Caie to The Waahiiten Heraid.
Paris. March 13.-A terrifying tale of
Armenian massacres recounted by the
Algemine Mission Zeltschrift. held up by
the Berlin censor since November 10, has
just reached here. The mission's report
reads:
"Turkish soldiers sho had parts in
wild scenes of indescribable horror and
fanatical savagery, told our Investiga
tors they saw hundreds of terrifled Ar
inenian women slain outright as they
pleaded for rnerey on their knees.
"To save thcir babies from excruciat
Ing tortures. ruany of these women.
driven to desperation, flung their infants
to drown in the rivers Tigris and Eu
phrates as the ra ening hordes of re
ligion-intoxicated T'r. bore down on
their homestead'. killing as they came.
Investigators asxed the eoldivis:
"'You mean to till us you pinlessly
shot down women and children' The
soldiers replied: 'We had no choice, we
only obeyed ordt
Treated Like Cattle.
"Another oftiial witnes., told is he
helped to drive bands of Armenians into
exile. They were treated like cattle
and beaten, nnd the slightest reea!cl
trance was punlihed by death by
strangulation.
"levery day dozenv of men weie eat
over precipices along the route. bae
heads were crushed, and women were
robbed and dishonored. Our missionaries
were present at a horrible scene when
hundreds of children and aged women.
many scarcely able to sit on their
donkeys, wore led 1) a preelpice on the
brink of the F.uphrates. They were tied
In bundles like faggots and flung Into
the yawning depths, where they were
caught in the swift eddies of the river
and whirled to death downstream.
'Between May 1N and 30, ladt. l.3
Armenian notable- and other Clistiansi
were arrested at Diarbekir. Mutnouret
and I'l Asi.s. During the whole nionth.
the Euphratc.e and Tigris were choked
with the bodies of the massacred.
LONE AMERICAN SENTRY
CAPTURES "MEX" SNIPER
'Greaser" Takes Pot-shot at U. S.
Trooper, but Regrets It When
His Rifle Jams.
1-:1 Past. March 1.1 -Mcxico uas inxadc'
:i'tight by tin American sohlier of the
eseenth Infantry. ntar t 'amtp Cotton,, whto
mactiured a Mexican atnd brought limn to
:he American side.
The Mexican. atandinig ott his own silde
>f the border, whieh ruts close to Camp
'otton. fired on the American soldier,
rho was doing sentry duty.
The Mexican missed anid tried to lire
Lgain, when his gun jammed, and the'
tmerican, rushing across, captured himt.
Loses $500,000 Estate
London, March 1U-The apreal in~ the
niernsationally famous "Sl'n;zby babis
:ase" was granted today by the, Court
>f Appeals, which tmeans that five-year
sid "Teddy" Slingsby loses a Yotrkshire
'state valued at S$500..
Five Hundred Weavers Strike.
Pawtucket, R. L.. Marchm 13. --Five
iundred weav'ers of tHope Webbtine Comi
pinmy struck today for len per cent ad.
ance. The company weaves narrow
abries anid at present has large Orders
U. S. CONCILIATES
CARRANZA WHILE
MASSING TROOPS
Lansing Inserts "Joker" Making Per
mission Granted Mexican Leader
of Little Practical Consequence.
WILSON OFFERS GUARANTEES
Tells First Chief He Seeks to Avoid Interven.
tion-War Department Prepares for Long
Campaign and Any Eventuality.
Secretary vf State Lansing ye-terdav rotified the Carranza gov
ermient that the United States has agreed to permit Carranza force
to enter U'nited States territory in pur-uit of bandits w%+.o might cro
the border into Mexico, commit depredations there and return to th4
United States.
In return for thic privilege. the communication -ets forth. the
United States understands that Carranza has no objection to the Ameri
can expedition which has been organized for the pursuit of Villa. arm
that thi, government is now prepared to exercise this right withou
further exchange of views.
Accompanying the formal note was a statement by Mr. Lancin;
,etting forth that the American expedition will be scrupulously con
fined to the pursuit and capture of 'illa.
TROOPS EXPECTED TO CROSS TODAY.
It is expected that Gen. Funston 1W thil morning w% il have It hI
troonp in motion acro'- the border.
The ten-ion in \\a-hington has not been le'sene;l by pubc:
,f the notc to Carran7a. All plans of the \\ar Department ha c eer
drawn with the po-ibility in icw that the entry of the troons 1
Mexico will be the signal for Carranzistas and \ilhstas in n r~nrrt
Mexico to unite in opposition to the invasion.
The State Department was advi'ed ve'terday that e Vilia an
dits. located in the vicinity of Casas Grarde-. had cut the railroad lini
somewhere between Casa5 Grandes and El Paso.
Col. Garvira. commander of the Carranza garrison at Juarer. wa
asked three da\- ago to send an escort to Casas Grande! to bring the
American Mornion, to the border. No reply iat been received
CONSENT TO CARRANZA EQUIVOCAL.
.\though appearing to extend to Carranza the reciprocal pra dege:
a'ked for, the Anierican note, officials privatelv admit, does no sucl
thing. In the first place. ii is pointed out, it a,--umes that Carranza bas
already consented to permit the American iorcet to cross the line
wherea- Carranza' propo-al- rather :eah with future depredations
In the second place. it wa- -howAn. the comnmimnication, while assFuming
the right to proceed with the .\merican expedition against Villa. limit
lawlcss bands that might originate in thin country.
Pre'ident WVilson ,esterdaN had a Iong conference with Speake
Champ Clark and Maiority Leader Claude Kitchin. of the House. a.
which he tron,-y urged that the preparere- legi-laQen of the a
Iini-tratin be put through iwithout further delay.
SENATORS FEAR GRAVE TROUBLE.
IN the :enate yesterday afternoon Senator- Cliamrlcair. rf (-re
gon, and rali. of Idaho, male s peche' in which the warnel 0
country to expect grave trouble in hex co Senatr rC ambe a r
clared that lie would not he -urprised if Vdla were acclan-ed a.
rational hero for his attack on Colimibuq an,' if 50.09-) Mexican- ral-e.
to his standard to repel the American force . ,enato- Borah declare<
that if Carraiza or his followcrs opposed the American expeci the
United States would need a force of I0.0() men in Mexi.o a 1
more to guard the border. Bll'th Seiiairr, <tr ng el tiat n
ie lost in actinz on the preparedness legilation.
Similar arguments in favor of immediate act;i:n on the a a
navy bill< were made on the floor cf the H lon-e.
The PIre-ident con ferred durin the 11min w i Sena1' Wm
and SatiihurI.. . the Senate F reign Rl cat n- C InIc. Ie,,
ing the sitnation:. After returning to the <einate. Senator Stone -ai:
PLANS FOR "INVASION."
"There i- nithing . he done hy 1) e wah respect to tlh ,it.:a
tiotn that I knni of at Ih ti \\ t i' contemplated no-v
pursuit and capture if lan e pc n.t war unless sone one want
to iake it war ,r an excuse i fr war. In such a contingener. of course
tle whole matter would he submitted to Congres."
Although the War Department still maintains the most rigorous
censorship over the official di-patches fron Gen. Funston, and while
officials there piofe- to know none of the detailq of Funston's plan
of canmpaign. it is. understood that his troops will cross into Mexico
from Columbius, N. Mex.. for the central column: El Paso. Tex.. for
rte eastern colunr. andl Cuilberson's Ranch, in the "square of New
Mexico," or Hachita. N. Mex.. for the westemn column. Wh~en last
heard from Villa was reported to be at Corralitos, eighty miles south
of Columibus and twsenty miles north of Casas Grandes, eaded in the
dirction of tihe latter town i.
MORE TROOPS TO THE BORDER.
From pre'nt indications the initial force senit into Mexico wi
consist of about 8.0004 troops, chiefly composed oi cavalry and mountain
: rtillery acclimated to border s.ervice. Their places are to be taken
rn the Iborder by other troop- now en route from various noe" in the.
Uinit'ed State-.
Secretary of War fRaker announced vest erday that one machine
gun troop w ith T'roops C. E. F. G anld Hf. of the First Cavalry, left
Presidio at ?Monterey. Cal.. Sunday: that Troops A. D. K and L, also
cf thie Fir't. left San l)iego at noon esterday. The troops from
Mlonterey left ini t wo mecdons at 6 arid 6 ::X0 o'clock Sunday' night. Comt
ais' E arid F. of the Tw~entietht Infanutr';. Mr. 1Baker announced, left
San Antoinio, Tex.. for Demring, N. M'... :md tw' other companies of
the same regiment kha lefn Sana) fr niabc A4ri an... ru
