-V! V... '. :'.v. , .'! ;"-V . . .v '",;,. ',
. t'-vl..-.----;,.;- '. -.i. ; -.
V ' -.JF-f.- " '':4' .!'"' '-'v V : ;V
-.'.'.'.'V)M.;-il
LATEST aLIID SUGAR QUOTATIONS
Conti Dollars
fu r lb T toa '
6.40 $109.20
' 1
V .
I I r I I ) I i I I ( J i I
Price, Hawaiian bMiii
Lrt rTiou qota '
C.62 $110.40
VOU'IX, NOr; 21
ItONOLtiLUl AVilt TERRITORY,' -V'ttSsi5A?. MARCH Ui v .116 .EMI-WEfeKLy,
WHOLE NUMBER 4212,
X.-
7 sv.:7'4,.y:,ir i
v i , i j i ' a it r. i. ., I I r i I i r-
i. f : ' paw T - , i .
mm
ATTACK
FOR AU OTHER
I'EDDUO FROUT
. T ' , ' 1 v M. I1 - . t''
Fighting On Bloody Battle Ground
'"Gathering "Headvyay Again Af-
;:t.'ter' Brief Lull In the Desper
, ; ate struggle For Fortress
TEUTONIC HEAVY GUNS ONCE
" AGAIN POUNDING AT FOEMEN
LosseiJSuffered By Crown Prin"
te Since-First Attack .Upon
; -Verdun aid To Have Stagger
ed the German Commanders
. -f . ON DON, March 14. Tha fighting
I, about Verdun la fathering head
wajr one more after h brief t
. af ite for. the tmfgling troop. De-
ratcbea front the front laat aight a-
mertA that tba.. Qarmana are'ajraia
Kami knn boHea of aiea in the sea
tloa between the little town of Forges,
on the west bank of the Meuee, and
the Boise . Corbeaat. reeeat ' aeene of
srh deiprrate fighting. ' '. ;
, The enemy , also baa - brought into
play mare of hia heavy giia. anfl is re
1 forted to be ponadiog th Le Morto
-. Pomme ssKeat,: which apexra on the
' fortiiration of the Fort d Boise Bern
jua, Hjist sou tli. of Forges,1 and about
ffur miles In a aorthwesterly direction
fWiniTirilnn It ! avtMi that k
'. ar' attarnDtina- .ta extn their Una
A. the liaea tfthe Frsueh fartheVtto the
, iaass4 vav imv viatr iuq V4 Uff iUan)
- tnl ia tas Woevr diatrit are dinaj
, Mr down to nor exchanges, of. artil
lory, in which the French gunners are
Having an tne Djt or . , -r;
' Ia the lait ' two great engagements,
the loas of ths attacking forces "have
beea staggerios ever since ths Ifirst
attack was hurled against the fortress
of - Verdun. They culminated, ? it is
declared by military observers, in the
terrifie lighting that took place Friday
and Saturday about the fort do Vaui,
just east of the Fort Dauaumont, and
one of the chain of fortresses defend
ing Verdun. Here one of ths most
furious attacks of the whole 'war took
place, and hers the Teutons are said
to have euffsred their moat frishtful
losses. The lowest estimates that have
been published of ths caeualtiea of the
assailants puts them at two thirds of
the total number of men engaged.
So heavy was ths Teutonic loss that
they apparently have not beea able to
resume the conflict, bat in that locality
have contented themselves with bomb
throwing and artillery bombardments.
Border Opened Again ,,
Despatches - from Holland throw
as interesting aide light upon the Oer
man offensive at Verdun.. The border
between Belgium and Holland has been
held tightly closed ever since the at
tack on Verdun began, but now it has
been opened aouth of Maastricht. This
move is taken to neaa that the Crown
Prince and the German commanders
on ider that their - offensive against
ths fortress is Hearing its end. .
Reports fren Amatsrdau yesterday
a announced that lpng train loada of Oer
'man wounded have been rushed from
ths lighting ground around Verdun to
the base hospitals in Uermany. Yes
terday a total of eighty one such train
re said to bava passed through Lux
ftmburg, on the way to the bases. -Germs
ns Flaoea Downed
Paris reports that there have been a
namber of aerial cembata in which the
French aviators have had the best of
it, striking three German aeroplanes
to the- earth and sending several others
bark to their lines in distress.
; In the eastern front Buasia is tOAre
more gathering headway. In aeveral
minor engagements along the Btripa
Kdlki line the Slavs have been eue
ceuful in forring back the German
troops, capturing a number of tranches.
Fresh lighting is '' reported la the
Month African theater of war. General
Smuts haa repulsed the Germans after
heavy fight at Taveta, and a British
column Is on the way in an effort cut
off the retreat of this column.
I. ' e '
'ASIA MINOR WANTS PEACE
l AuwriaW press ? aXeral Wtrsleas.)
LONDO.V, March 13 A despatch to
Reuter's from Athene says that vari
ous cities of Atia Minor have address-
td a memorial to Prince Vahid Eddin,
clr apparent to the" Turkish throne,
begging him to urge upon the sultan
the neeesiity of a change ia the pres
ent government, so that a way may be
prepared for Turkey to eoncludf a sep
; arate peace with the Allies. i
French Torpedo Shell arid Cun Being Fired Front Tf
I -
General
Pe
First
Column
Troops
rshma
of
OverMexjc
To Lead
ricah
an
Artie
Line
-
SENATORS WARN CONGRESS PURSUIT
COUNTRY INTO GREAT WAR
i.. '' ;. i:.. , -( V ' '
Major-Genera) Fumton'fy of 12,000
Men Along Border For Invasion To Punish Bandits
AND DRAG
- V-
WASIllNGTONtlEETSCARRANZA'S DEMAND
I I
V
X
W. .
- r
AlVIERlCAN BORN
ALLOWED APPEAL
Slingsby Baby Wins Important
. Point In British Court
of Appeals
(AMMlsted Tnm hy tTsdaral WlnUn.)
LONDON, March 13. The court of
appeals today handed dowa a decision
allowing appeal in the Slingsby legit
imacy suit.
This ia one of the most noted taes
in legal annals and haa been
fought out iu American courts for the
pant several years. The case aros.
over charges that another babv wu
ubitituted for little "Teddy" SlingR
by, son of Lieut, and Mrs. C. R. Hlinir
by ami heir to $500,000 property of the
Slingsby 'family In Yorkithlre, Eug
land. The substitution was alleged to
have been made in San FrancUco.
The claim was made that the real
Slingsby baby, which wasborn in
San Francisco on September 1, IP 10
died and the mother substituted an
other, infaut. , .
After the ease had been thraohed
out in San Francisco, the evidence was
submitted to the probate court in Lou
don, which on February Sr 1913, decid
ed that the present Slingsby baby is
legitimate and that no .substitution
was. made. It ia from this decision
that an appeal haa now been allowed.
Sir Edward Oarson, ' Uniouiat ' leader
and 'until 'recently a member of the
British coalition cabinet, haa been
leading counsel, for the contestant of
tha child's right, to the estate.
DEPOTS BOMBARDED
BY GERMAN 'AIRMEN
(AssocUtsd Press fcy rsSaral Wlrslsas.)
BKRLIN, March 13. German avia
tors, today attacked the railway sts
uons ssu military depots of the t'ler-mont-Verduu
line with much suceexs.
Three more enemy aeroplanes have beeu
destroyed in the Champagne district
and one in the Meuse region.
. .. ..I. i
AUSTRIANS SAY SLAVS .
HAVE BEEN REPULSED
td pr.aa Tttnt Wrstoss.)
BERLIN, March . 13. A a official
Austrian announcement says that the
Russian offensive on the Dnelster and
Ressarabian fronts haa beea renulsed.
Oa the Italian front the Italian artil
lery is active. The Italians have been
defeated at Selz.
COMMERCE BUREAU SAtS.
" SAVEi5RAGS AND PAPER
'' r-r"? v .. A
tAJ sedates Pratf ST Ps4sral Wlrslsss.)
WASHINGTON, March 13. Tha, dei
partment of commerce (today mailed, to
people and organisations all over .' the
country a million circulars urging that
the people of the United States v save
their old papers and rags on account of
the serious shortage ia paper stock . ia
the Ignited States. Th department
asks that tha papers and ratja be not
destroyed but saved for sale' to dealers.
.. ... . .
BRITISH SHIP BURNS 4 -AT
DOCK AND SINKS
(AsaseUtsa Press by rsd-l Wirslsss.
ST. JOHNS, New Foundland, Marsh
14 The British steamer Matatua,
caught lire ' at her wharf hra last
sight, burned to the water's edge and
sunk despite the efforts of her erew
and the local fire department to save
her. The efforts of the fire, fighters
were hampered -by repeated explosions,
one of which killed the commander of
the vessel. The origin of the fire was
not determined.
COAST FORTIFICATIONS '
ATTACKED BY WARSHIPS
(Assaelatsd Prses by Psdsval Wlrslsas.)
MOBILE, Alabama, March 14 The
warship Arkansas', and New. York yes
terday pounded the armcred . fortifica
tions In the harbor here with their big
gun a, ' Uoverament officials . were pres
est St the test. Th. results and the
ranges, were not annuounied.
t
'OTOHlRA' WRESTLER,
DIES AT., JUS HOME
(Baselal OskUaross,,) JTlrsn L) '
TOKIO, March 15-Ogiiruma, a di
rector of the Japanese' wrestling asso
ciation, sad former champion wrestler,
who was well known in Honolulu ami
throughout Japan under tha name of
"Otohira," died at his home yestcr ,
day. He was fifty resra old.
FRENCH SOLDIERS WILL
USE JAPANESE SWORDS
(Special OabUcnua to Hawaii Bhlnpo.)
TOKIO, March 14, The war depurt
insnt of France has forwarded to the
Japanese government an order for ten
thousand swords of the peculiar pattern
in use in this country, The weapons
will be sent at onee.
' '
DOCTORS CONTRACT TYPHUS
MiiHii4 Ptas t srsl wirslts
LAREDO, Texas, March 14. Drs.
Carlos Rusk and Peter Kolltskv, both
attached to the Rockefeller typhus ex
pedition Into Mexico, have contracted
the disease and are in strict quaran
tine here. Both physiciaus are report
ed dangerously ill.
PREIfHOB'ttPAir
KIIOTIS!SII
Yuarr Negotiate- Witl JiReheJs
In KweichaiAjapanesevl
f .In Korea Increased
(Bpsolai Oablsgrasj to Hipp. 'fUt
tukiu, March lj. uoaav Uktima,
premier of Japan, has ststed. tUt 'b
will not resign uaderr any eircumetaae
es. Thia is considered eoncluslvs'y
that the cabinet crisis, which grew' out
m At. . i a . , . . to a
or ins lauuro or ' ine premier .io nna
a siwceasor to Minister of War Lieu
tenant General Oka,: has passati'-;-.
Ndverthelessi ne n W'. taker the
portfolio has beea found. Ths sbioiater
of war must M a general , Or 'S. lieu
tenant general of the.uriayj t . i
xuan Hhib-kal has sent 11 suing lis!
ling, former premier of ,- China, to
Kweichuu province, a seat I of revolu
tion, to negotiate with '; the : tebeU.
Kweichau is east of jYunnaal-iV .ay.
The -war' department will "tnk an.
oflicial announeem'ent of the establish
ment of two additional ermv divisions
in Korea, effective April 1, Both, will
be of full strength, i They will"; -soke
a total of twenty division ia the, Ja
panese army, there being elgheB bow.
The diet previously had passed the
army extension, bill for .Korea,'-which
has been agitated for riversl- months.
The commander ia Korea seon will ba
appointed. Tb 'forces- ia' Bosa. are
known now as the Korean garrison".
SWITZERLAND ' WILL-K
PRESERVE NEUTRALITY
'AMctat4 Press fey Psdaral Wtnlsss.)
1'ARIK, MarcH 13-Rp6rs which
roach here' say -that to preserve' neu
trality and prevent; the passage-of so
traband the ISwiaar government ia rect
ing around ' Lake. , Pnrtartce , wires
charged with electricity. ',.' v( .ti-
'M C ,
PORTUGAL LIVES UP TO V? V
VERY ANCIENT' AGREEMENT
rAssoelf ie$ Press br PMsraJ WlrsUfM.)
WASIUNOTONi Marohf-: IS.-The
I'ortugueee legatioq anaoupeed today
that Portugal haa entered; the-war at
the request of Great Britain,' In" fulfil
ment of a treaty which dates back to
1S73- . -::Vr
CARDINAL GOTTI IS DYING ,
r-s Vr r0nl Wu-Ua.i '
ROME, March 14. Cardlna Qottl,"
prefect for propaganda is seriously ill,'
and the laat rites of the; Catholic
church, have been administered Is h'm.
(AtaocUted Press By Federal Wireless.)
f-nN(.TON,. March, 14.WhiK.M'ratnrt
-were urging that "alt other .legislation be
dropped and that preparedneM..b;,ina')ay-t1f'-ote
cdnsidcratiorf of the upper house of congress, n
view of the possibility that the invasion I ;Mextco
by .American troops may.utiite. the Warring fac
tions there and tbi country find itselft confronted
with the necessity of fightings the whole republic,
instead, of merely (Chasing Villa to his lair in the
b mountains; the Prenident last night Va reported
as indignant at rumors' that the administration ex
pects trouble with Carrana.;". ?;V '
. .'It' was announced at the White House that J4r.
Wilsoii believed In the goo faith of ihetrovisIorial
presideni; of Mexico, and has accepted his propo
sal for !a reciprocal aereerAent whlcfc firiveg the
r Constitutionalist soldiers the ritrht , to cross the
i I border Iih and enter the Uplted States wheneve
theff ladeKdewns it advisable. .: 1 ' '
Wexkan Pleased Wltji pension
WrWthei )jewof, this decision. On the part of
tbjianwiW'Ui
wildest ntbusfaminb Wexican embassy, wlrteV
; it chad' been aipciouslj - aw(Utidv:. " In -official cjrclef
i' was stated, that, certain eUhtents hayebeeri cn-
; sistenth misrepresentinjg; tne' facts: in the case in i
order to brjng on a war with Mexico if possible; ,
, . Five thousand Carranra' troops are iKrw bejng
; gathered' at Cabullons, eighteen miles eouth of th
border at Douglas, Arizona.-V General Cailes is, in j
command of this force,' which has with it fifteen
pieefs of heavy artillery a.hd a number of machine
guns.' It is announced that General CaIIes,will
lend every assistance to the troops under General
Funston. . '. '
Funston Rushes Preparations
Preparat'.ons for the punitive expedition are be
ing rushed through as secretly and as speed
ily as possible by General Funston, who has his
headquarters in San Antonio. , Four troops of the
First Cavalry hive left San Diego, California, for
Fort Douglas'where they will be joined by other
troops. of the same, regiment, with orders to pro
ceed at once to-the border for service with the
expeditionary forces.1"
It is L.-lieved. here that the main body of the
pursuit will start from Columbus, New Mexico,
where a large force of Cavalry and ArtiKery has
been assembled, and is said to be ready to crvss
at a moment's notice.
In the senate, yesterday, the Mexican situation
excluded everything else. Senator Borah, in an
unpassioned address, urged, the senate to forget
everything else and concentrate upon the. work of
getting the Nation into a state of preparedness.
Consequences Majr Be Serious.
"No one knows what the consequences of this
move against Villa , rrjay be," said - the senator.
"It is quite possible that we may find our expecta
tions are far short of the actualities time may
bring lis, and now is the opportunity to make pre
parationsuch preparation as shou,ld have been
made long, long ago." N ' '
Senator Chamberlain of Oregon declared he be
lieves there are hot enough men and supplies to
handle the task we have undertaken.
"I should not be at all surprised," he said, "if
we come soon to find ourselves fighting the whole
of a united Mexico. I believe that it would take
but little to. swing the entir republic in line for
Vih'a, who is certain to pose a a persecuted here
in the yes of many of hia fellow countrymen.
Should such a situation arise we are going to find
that we have neither the men nor the munitions
to do the work that, will devolve upon us."
General Pershing .Will Command
From General Funston at San Antonio, Texas,
came the announcement that there are enough sol
diers gathered how under his command to begin
the pursuit of Villa at once,, but that his plans
for furnishing sufficient backing for the expedi
tion, are not yet completed, and may not be foi
several days. He declined to make any estimate
of the length of time it will take before the columns
can start.
"When I have completed my arrangements
there will not be more than six or eight regiments
left in the whole of the country, save those scat
tered along the border," he said. ',, :
He also announced thatGen. John J. Pershing
will take personal command rf the columns in
the, field, and added that the final disposition of
the forces will be left, to the commands of that
officer. "It is now estimated that more than
twelve thousand men, with forty-eight mountain
gons and fieid batteries hare Wen concentrated
between Douglas, Arizona and F.l Paso, Texas. -OnDivision
Is Ready To Mow
f.RepOTts .from Columbus, uhconfirme'd here, de
clafjt that the troops there are getting ready, to
leave Thursday or Friday morning.: It is' renort-
v.ru. t't ,.- i . . " . i
c iiiai ins uJiuma wnscr is Dasea upon the;;amed' . i
iMv. .w.ju'iy equippeq wna supply tram, of 108 .? v
rntjtor trucks in the hands of thyklian drivers.: In .
,0'r
a:i inere ar Jjo Tn-n at hirnliushis cjWixf :i
VitltyV-tifi'ipffvIl wiTK Vrerop&Bes.' supplied witlr 's'-i
wireless Apparatus; .xThesjf .will . act as scouts: ' .V a
trailing HeiirTg robbers to their hiding places
in ilia MiAnH4nH. . !
''General Pershing, who will command the'exne-'
ditionary forctf. vesterdav had a Jencrthv , rnW.
eiice with General Gavira, the Carranra command-
er o the ' garnson at Juarez, across the Rio Gran-
de from" El : Paso. After the conference General
Pershirtg returned to division headquarters, at El
Paso; ahd declared that most satisfactory arrange
ments have been reached with the Carranza force.
General "Gavira reported that his ' , scouts had
brdtight Inith information that Villa has turned
eastward, after having apparently! abandoned his
Jplan of attacking the Mormon settlement at Caa
urandes, and Is nrw at Ga!ena; headed, it is believ
ed, for the -Santa Ana mountains, south of that
place. ' : . ; .
PanchV Villa Prepares For Stand
Her he had his former headquarters during the
days' when he was fighting Huerta and Carranza,
and here; it is4bclieved, he intends to take his stand
for a time. He is believed to have large' supplies
stored in a hidden place in these, mountains.
If he succeeds in entering these fastnesses, it is
believed the pursuit will be a matter of months.
In this country the peons' regard Villa as a hero
and may be relied upon to give him all the haven '
and support possible, as well as to throw the pursu
ing' Americans off the trail if possible.
Orders have been issued to United States officials
at Saa Francisco, Los Angeles and Noagles to place
an embargo on shipments of arms and munitions
into Mexico.
' y
iProvertv Destroved
M6NTEREY, California. March 13. The mili
tary headquarters building here was ' destroyed by
fire early today, after it had been vacated by troops
bound for the border. Firemen who hurried to the
scene 'discovered that the water supply had heen
turned off at its source. The origin of the fire has
not been determined. Maps, records ' and papers
were destroyed. The Presidio of "Monterey, hi the
headquarters of six troops and a machine gun troop
of the Fjrst Cavalry. ;
;-.vr
Obrcgon Minister of War
MlfXICO CITY, March 14. Gen. Alvarado
Obregon, has been apxintedsminister of war in the
Carranza cabinet, according to t oflicial armounce-t "
ment issued last niplit. Acjuilor Candido has been
nairied minister for foreign affairs.
V ; , ' L-
Much Clothing For Troops
PHILADELPHIA. March 14. Twenty carloads'
of clothing sufficient to supply ten thousand troops,
have been rushed from the local arsenal to the border.
Xhe train has Urn given the right of way by the
railroads.
'' v-i
xi -u
J. '
