fe
in ,"
i-
Established 1860.57th Year.-No. 21
Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Tuesday, March 14, 1916.
Tuesdays
lbl6
The
INTERIOR
JOURNAL
agn
t
Ln-i-cr-
WHISKY RIDES
ROUGH SHOD
Over Temperance Members of House
Speaker Duffy's Henchman
Draws Gun on Harvey.
Frankfort, Ky., March 14. Bitter
ness engendered by the liquor ques
tion reached its climax in the House
of Representatives Monday afternoon
when the "dry" members, infuriated
by the arbitrary rulings of Acting
Speaker Harry J. Meyers, and the
methods used to enforce them, burst
forth in turbulent and unanimous re
bellion, demanding the expulsion
from the floor of seven so-called as
sistants to the Sergeant-at-Arms, ap
pointed Saturday by Speaker H. C.
Duffy.
Scenes of turbulence were neacted
which completely eclipsed all for
mer disorder seen during this session,
and which are declared to be without
parallel in the history of the Ken
tucky Legislature.
Executive Marshal B. Williams,
one of the seven so-called "assistant
Sergeants-at-Arms" drew a huge re
volver on Representative W. B. Har
vey, of Webster county, who had re
fused to recognize his authority, but
was instantly seized. Rumors are
current that other guns were flashing
in the chamber, but they can not be
substantiated.
The galleries, crowded to their ut
most capacity, were in an uproar,
cheering the "dry" leaders at the top
of their lungs and hissing Acting
Speaker Meyers and the so-called as
sistants to the Sergeant-at-Arms.
The tumult, after raging about
half an. hour, subsided slowly after
Meyers had consented to grant recog
nition to a representative of the
"drys."
The storm was the outgrowth of
the refusal of the Rules Committee
to bring out Senator Taylor's anti
shipment bill, which limits the
amount of liquor and beer that can
be shipped into dry territory. The
"drys," possessing a large majority,
desired to make a motion to suspend
the rules and bring up this bill any
way. The czar-like methods employ
ed to prevent their making such a
motion led to the outbreak.
After gaining recognition by the
rebellion outlined, Representative
Growe moved that the Taylor bill be
taken from the orders of the day and
placed upon its passage. The motion
cairied by a vote of 53 to 39, but
Meyers ruled that a two-thirds vote
would be necessary. From this deci
sion Representative Greene and Har
vey appealed, but the chair was sus
tained by a vote of 48 to 44. Some of
the "dry" members, seemingly, did
not understand the proposition.
The riot Monday afternoon was the
climax of a day-long battle. The
first skirmish was fought at the open
ing of the afternoon session when
Representative Greene, of Carroll
county, was recognized on a point of
personal privilege.
Mr. Greene, as a member of the
Rules Committee, desired to disclaim
any responsibility for the refusal of
that committee to bring out the anti-shipment
bill. After making this
disclaimer, he began to make an at
tack on the Rules Committee.
Speaker Duffy, who was in the
chair at this time, ruled that Greene's
first disclaimer was sufficient to show
his position and that any further re
marks from him would be out of or
der. Greene attempted to proceed,
but the Speaker ordered him to take
his seat.
Greene continued notwithstanding
this injunction. He declared that the
Rules Committee, appointed by the
Speaker,' was packed against "dry"
legislation, and that it was the pur
pose of that committee to kill the
shipment bill.
Representative Meyers sprang to
his feet to defend the Rules Commit
tee, denying that it was "packed."
There was a heated altercation De
the former shook his fist at the lat
ter. Mr. Greene, who had remained
standing, moved that the bill be tak
en from its regular order and placed
on its passage. Speaker Duffy held
the motion to be out of order on the
ground that he had recognized
Greene for a different purpose.
Representative Hutchcraft, on a
point of personal privilege, declared
that the bill had never been brought
before the Rules Committee. He
charged Greene with simply desiring
to create a disturbance.
"That's untrue and you know it's
untrue," snouted Greene. Hutch
craft ignored the remark.
Representative Crowe was recog
nized, also on a point of personal
privilege. He moved that the bill be
taken from the orders of the day and
placed on its passage. This motion,
like that of Greene, was declared out
of order by Speaker Duffy.
At this juncture, Greene notified
the Speaker that he would appeal
from the chair. Several members of
both factions consulte'd with each
other and the appeal was not taken.
It was announced that the Speaker
had agreed to recognize a representa
tive of the Drys later, who would
make the motion. Representative
Crowe was to be the dry spokesman.
The matter was dropped, therefore
for some time. Several bills and res
olutions were passed. In the mean
time Mr. Crowe had made repeated
attempts to gain recognition but My
ers, who had been called to the chair,
refused to recognize him. Finally
Green again demanded to be heard
on a point of personal privilege. He
began an attack on the Speaker for
his refusal to resognize Dry mem
bers. Acting Speaker Meyers de
clared him out of order and demand
ed that he take his seat. As Greene
continued speaking, Myers ordered
the sergeants-at-arms near the door
to compel hrim to take his seat. It
was at this time that the storm broke
in all its fury.
Brushing aside the so-called assist
ants to the sergeants-at-arms, Greene
walked slowly down the center aisle
of' the chamber, shouting furiously
and shaking his fist at Myers, whom
he called a "Czar." He was tremb
ling with fury. Three of the assist
ants to the sergeants-at-arms were
following him closely. Whenever
they got too -close, Greene would turn
on them and dare them to lay "so
much as a finger" on him. They kept
at a respectful distance.
Roaring with rage, Greene de
nounced the methods used to choke
off the Drys and declared that he
would not tolerate the touch of a sin
gle one of the special appointees. He
said he would respect the regular ser-geant-at-arms,
Jeff Bowman, but that
he dared any other o touch him.
By this time the entire house was
in a terrific uproar, with every mem
ber on his feet, and all of the Drys
rushing down the aisles to his sup
port. The galleries were ringing with
shouts of encouragement to the tem
perance members. Scores of infur
iated men crowded as close as they
could get to the Speaker's rostrum,
snaking their fists and demanding the
expulsion from the floor of the so
called assistants to the sergeant-at-arms.
who had been appointed by
Speaker Duffy.
Representative Harvey was walk
ing down the aisle a few step's behind
Greene, seconding his demands. Stan
ley's Executive Marshal B. Williams
one of the assistants, seized him from
behind and began dragging him back
toward his desk.
Harvey apparently was stumbling
but after a few steps recovered him
self and jerked loose from his cap
tor. He wheeled and faced him but
apparently made no offensive move
ment. It was at this moment that
Williams drew forth his weapon. It
clung in the holster and holster and
all was drawn forth. On the instant
several men intervened and Williams
was taken away. Williams is an un
usually large man while Harvey is
considerably bejow the average size.
Drys near the Speaker's desk were
now 'threatening to remove Meyers
from the chair. The manner of many
indicated a desire to do so by vio
lence. Gradually, however, a few
cooler heads prevailed and the tumult
slowly subsided on the promise of
Meyers that he would recoginze
Crowe. Members returned to their
seats. Crowe made his motion to
bring out the anti-shipping bill and
it received a majority on rollcall of
53 to 39. Representatives Gooch, of
Lincoln, Dorman of Jessamine, Dowl-
ing of Anderson, Hunter, of Marion,
Minor, of Boyle, and Pickett, ol bnei
bv. voted with the Wets against the
motion to bring out the bill. Repre
sentative Kauffmann, of Garrard,
Wall, of Casey, Smith, of Mercer and
Tartar, of Pulaski, voted with the
Drys to bring out the bill.
Aft?r the announcement of the
vote Meyei-s luled that a two-thirds
majorty was necessary to carry the
motion." From this decision Greene
announced that he would appear
The determination of the Wets thru
their Speaker to refuse the appeal
was overcome by Repreesntative
Smith, of Mercer, who made the first
calm, unimpassioned speech of the
day. Ho pleaded for", fair play and
called attention to the scenes -just
enacted, saying: "I saw a man twice
as large as another draw a pistol as
long as my arm when there was no
occasion for it." Representatives
Greene, Bailey, Kauffmann and oth
ers joined him in a demand for the
consideration of the proposed ap
peal. Meyers finally yielded and call
ed Representative Price to the chair.
Upon roll call the chair was sustain
ed by 4.S to 44 as some of the Drys
apparently did not fully understand
whether to vote Yes or No.
B. Y. P. U. "SOCIAL."
On Saturday evening, March 18,
from 7:30 to 10 o'clock, the Baptist
Young "People's Union will entertain
the members of the Christian En
deavor and Epworth League, of the
other churches, in their new B. Y. P.
U. assembly room at the Baptist
church. Misses Lucille Gastineau,
Mary Early and Annette Wearen,
with Sam Hill, Bailey Hill and Will
Ashlock as first aides, constitute the
committee in charge, which insures
a good time for all and a cordial wel
come. LOST ALL IN SUNDAY FIRE
The home of Robert Coffman, near
Yocum's schoolhouse on Green river,
south of McKinney, burned to the
ground Sunday morning. The loss is
quite a heavy one on Mr. Coffman
and his family, consisting of his wife
and two children, as he carried no in
surance. They lost everything in
the house, all furniture, and clothing
except that which they wore. It is
not known just how the blaze started.
WILL BUILD BUNGALOW.
Marshall C. Newland, the clever
and efficient clerk of the Lincoln cir
cuit court, has contracted with Phil
lips Bros., for a pretty bungalow on
his lot on Portman avenue. It will
be of the latest design and have all
the modern mprovements.
Entertainment at Crab Orchard.
There will be an Old Folks' enter-'j
tainment at the Springs at Crab Or
chard next Saturday evening, March
18th, which promises to be a most
delightful and entertaining affair.
Admission of 25 cents will be charged.
EAST END BOY
DIES IN COLORADO
Burch Buchanan Passes Away at
Colorado Springs Born and
Reared at Crab Orchard.
His host of friends and relatives
"back home" in old Lincoln were
deeply grieved to learn of the death
of Burch Buchanan, which took place
at Colorado Springs, Colo., Saturday.
Mr. Buchanan and his bride had been
in the west for his health for only a
short time, and few realized the se
riousness of his condition. The de
ceased was born and reared in Lin
coln county at Crab Orchard, being
the son of Mrs. John Buchanan, of
that city. He was without doubt one
of the most popular young men ever
reared in the East End, genial, whole
souled, and always looking on the
brighter side of life, he numbered his
friends by his acquaintances, and
those who knew him but to love him,
will extend to his grief-stricken
mother and sister, their sincerest
condolences. Miss Esther Burch and
County Attorney Will S. Burch, his
first cousins, have- received news that
the body will be brought back to Ken
tucky and will be buried in Louis
ville. The Courier-Journal had the
following mention of the death of
this fine young man:
Stephen Burch Buchanan, one of
the best-known young men of Louis
ville, died yesterday afternoon at 5
o'clock at Colorado Springs, accord
ing to a message reecived here last
night by his family. Mr. Buchanan
went to Colorado last fall for his
health and the end came suddenly
yesterday afternoon.
Mr. Buchanan was 37 years old,
and until he left Louisville he was
assistant manager of the Fireproof
Storage Company. He was born in
Crab Orchard, Ky., and was a son
of Mrs. John Buchanan, who survives
him. He was married last September
to Miss Emily Conway Smith, of
Louisville, and left some time after
for Colorado. Besides his widow and
mother he is survived by his sisters,
Mrs--John-'AJIaldman-,-'Miss. Jean
R. Buchanan, and Mrs. J. W. James
of Crab Orchard; Mrs. A. Addams,
of Frankfort, and one brother, John J
Buchanan.
Before coming to Louisville Mr.
Buchanan was in the office of the su
perintendent of the Louisville and
Nashville railroad at Montgomery,
Ala.
TROOPS TO GO AFTER VILLA
Agreement Made With Carranza and
Invasion Will Start.
The United States entered into
formal agreement with the Carranza
de factor Government of Mexico un
der which American troops will cross
the border to hunt down Villa and
his bandits with the expectation of
hearty co-operation from the Carran
za forces. It was announced by Maj.
Gen. Funston that Brig. Gen Pershing
would lead the main column into
Mexico and that practically the en
tire United States army would be
utilized either in the expedition or to
patrol the border. There, were
3,500 troops reported last night at
Columbus, N. M., and regiments were
reported moving out from Galveston,
San Francisco and Nebraska to the
border.
Francisco Villa has deserted his
supposed mountain refuge and head
ed east, according to reports received
at Juarez lastriight. This move ap
parently takes the bandit away from
the point where the American troop
mobilization is the heaviest, but not
into a part devoid of dangers of cap
ture. Danger of grave complications
growing out of the sending of Amer
ican troops into Mexico was urged in
the Senate by Senators Chamberlain
and Borah in advocating laying aside
temporarily all other legislation in
order to dispose promptly of pre
paredness measures.
STORE BURNS AT WAYNESBURG
The store of former Postmaster T.
J. Burleson, of Waynesburg, burned
to the ground there Saturday morn
ing at an early hour. Mr. Burle
son's loss is estimated at about
$2,500, with $1,700 insurance, car
ried with Jesse D. Wearen, of Stan
ford. Mr. Burleson made a fire in
the stove in his store about six
o'clock Saturday morning, and after
lighting it, went over to the post of
fice to get his mail. When he re
turned the building was in flames,
and they had attained such headway
that it was impossible to check
them, or to save much.
Mr. Burleson was protected with
insurance with Jesse D. Wearen, the
Insurance Man, of Stanford. Keep
your property protected the same
way and you are always safe. --21-1
VALID PETITION
FOR ROAD BONDS
Is Filed ThisjTime With Sufficient
-f
"Freeholders". Signing Elec
tionMay 13, 1916.
Another Aeiiipn for a road bond
election -in- Lincoln county was filed
i
in County Court here Monday, bear-
ing the namesof 400 or 500 voters
of the county every one of whom is
said by thosfe who circulated the pe
tition to "Be ".'freeholder," or prop
erty owner, so that the petition will
not be invaldiated for lack of suffi
cient names pf"freeholders," as the
iormer petition was.
An order Mas entered in court call-
ing an election-to be held on Satur-I . .. , ,,
, ,, 10,i , , , . construction work on the entire
day, May, ljith, and due advertise-' . ouuj xi.
ment of the dection will be made by .route from Crab Orchard on through
the sheriff, a? required by law, as Stanford to Danville, at its bid of
soon as the proper order can be $1,45 per ton for metal on the Stan"
drawn up The petitions ask for the ford and Crab Orchard road and
issual of $200,000 in bonds and con- ; 135 a ton for the metal on the Stan
tain the names of prominent citizens ' f ord and Danville pike. In addition
of all sections of the county. The ' to this, $40 a mile is stipulated for
friends of thje movement say that shaPing the roadbed. The contending
the question is sure to carry at this ' bidders were the Durrett Construc
election, as rpad. conditions were nev- f tion Company, of Louisville, and
er worse in ihe county and it is ar-! Mitchell Taylor & Son, of Danville,
gued that the only way in which suf- The successful bidders have had
ficient funds can be secured to work j much experience in pike and good
and reconstruct them properly is roads building, having recently com
through a bo'nd issue.
DR. J. K. VANARSDALE DEAD
Former Stanford Business Man Sue-
cumbs to. Pneumonia. ty contract just as soon as the con-
" ; tract made is approved by the State
Dr. John K. Vanarsdale, formerly , Commissioner of Roads, as under the
one of the best known residents and state-aid plan his approval is neces
business men of Stanford, died at the sary ana specifications must be fol
home of his son, Lawrence Vanars- iowe(i out to ihe letter in alj con.
dale in New Albany, Ind., Saturday tracts in which the state pays half
after a short illness. Dr. Vanarsdale 0f tne cost as is the case in this
and family left Stanford some 12 or contract.
15 years ago, and had since made. Au of tne concrete work on the
their home in Louisville. Mrs. Van- two pikes requjred under the recon
arsdale is a sister of Bowen Gover, ' struction plans will be done by Phil
of this county. The Louisville Her- iips BroS-f of this city who seCured
aid had the , f olltfwing notice of his the contract. This includes all bridg
death: I es, culverts, etc., and the selection
Dr. J. K. VanarsdUe, 1017 South' of tne local, concrete contractors for
Third street, ' who celebrated his 67th this contract insures a good work for
.hbthdalasJTbry.-dJeVFfeSSO. eoiicrtei'errin-Vnlstateliavevf
o'clock yesterday afternoon at the
home of his son, Lawrence Vanars-'more
dale, in New Albany.
Dr. Vanarsdale was visiting his
son a few days ago, when he was
stricken with pneumonia which kept
him in bed on his birthday and caused
his death yesterday afternoon. Tho
he had not practiced actively for the j ft had been
last ten years he kept thoroly posted since he seen and
on medical matters, and wanted to ...... . , .,, .
, ' . ' . ,T , he had looked forward with great
handle his own case Nurses and & few dayg, sojourn un
physicians who attended him how- mother,s roof To his gorMW
ever, persuaded him to allow them to he f Qund on
minister to him, but they could do mother had died at 1Q 0dock
nothing to save his life. 'that morning, and that instead of
He was born in Lincoln county, . , . ... . ., j
iic woa uuu . J,' I seeing her in life, he was permitted
Ky., March 9, 1848. He graduated i ,..-, r. j t. tt
;' """" " 6 I only to look upon her in death. He
from the Louisville Medical College nofc q her fflne8g and fte
in 1870 and returned to Lincoln almost prostrated him. The
county for practice. In 1876 Dr.;. occurred be following day in
Vanarsdale was married to Miss Alice Tartar d De
J. Gover, of Lincoln county. Ten . .
years ago he removed to Louisville. DaltQn lrft da hterS- She
At the time of his death he was con- had been a member of the Slide
nected with the circulation depart- Methodist church for nearly
ment of the Courier-Journal. ' 60 and was said to be a most
He is survived by four sons, B. H. . '
vanarsaaie, ijexnigtun, xjawicmc
Vanarsdale, New Albany; J. K. Van
arsdale, Louisville; G. T. Vanarsdale,
St. Louis; and three daughters, Miss
Alvira Vanarsdale, Miss Susanne
Vanarsdale ana miss mary vanars
dale, of Louisville.
The funeral will be held at the res -
idence at 3 o'clock Monuay alter
noon. The Rev. E. L. Powell, pas
tor of the First Christian church, will
officiate. Burial win oe at uave nui 0'ciock The Character of Moses.
Cemetery. Special meeting of the ladies at 3:00
" o'clock in basement room.
YOUNG MULES SELL WELL. Baptist church: Prayer and praise
John B. Foster and James H. meeting, Wednesday evening, 7:30
Woods, held an auction sale of mules j o'clock subject: Prayer. Every
at the stock yards here Monday which j member of the church urged to ht
realized good prices for the hybrids tend. The pastor would be glad to
they offered, all of which were com-'.have every member of the choir at-
. . i .- TT11 .
! wi-imai nlrlc TVlP SJllp5 TTlfinp.
U1& tlYU-JfcUA-Ww .--w --.
were as follows:
Pair mares J. C. Eubanks, $335.
Pair mares J. C. Fox, ?233.
Pair horses Lee Rankin, $245.
Two pair mares to Hildreth, of
Tennessee, one for $260 and one pair
for $317.
One mare Fox & Farris, of Dan
ville, $104.
Pair mares J. C. Fox, $280.
MASON'S GAP.
Messrs. Carradine Burke and Syl
vester Miracle was here Sunday vis
iting friends.
Rev. Geo. Hasty and wife, were
pleasant callers at this place Sun
day afternoon.
Miss Pearl Hooker and Charles
Thompson attended the singing giv
en by Miss Florence Burke Saturday
night.
Mrs. Anna Davis spent Sunday
with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Will
Kirk.
Little Otto Hurst was the guest-of
Henry Miracle Sunday.
CONTRACTS FOR
STATE-AID WORK
On Pikes to Danville and Crab Or-
chard Let By Fiscal Court to
Jessamine Firm.
Contracts for the reconstruction
of the Stanford and Danville and the
Stanford and Crab Orchard turn
pikes, under the state-aid plans, were
let to Woodard Bros., of Jessamine
county, at a special meeting of the
Lincoln County Fiscal Court last Fri
day. Three bidders contended for
the state-aid contracts, and the Jes
samine county firm won the contract
by making what the court considered
h0 i,OCf nA ut- uiA t i,
pleted an extensive contract for re
construction work in Fayette coun
ty, which is said to have the finest
system of pikes, in the state. They
j will start work on the Lincoln coun-
j, more experience than they or are
competent to give the county
first class service, in every way.
FOUND HIS MOTHER DEAD.
H. S. Dalton, who lives at Rowland
went to the Norfleet section of Pu-
News of the Churches
The ladies of the Baptist church
haye claimed Aprii 22, the Saturday
before Easter for an exchange.
The Mission Studv Class met with
Miss Annie McKinney Monday after-
noon.
Presbyterian church: Mid-week
service Wednesday evening, at 7:00
. tenO,
GOING TO RAISE PEAFOWLS.
Sam Gentry, son of C. V. Gentry,
received a consignment of seven pea
fowls from a party at Lowell, Gar
rard county, Monday ajid will start
a peafowl farm. Sam is a success at
anything he attempts and his friends
expect to hear of his making fame
and fortune out of his new enter
prise. A SPECIFIC AGAINST COLDS.
The nearest thing to a specific
against colds is a sleeping porch or
open bed room and a cold sponge
J bath every morning when you first
'get up. Even then you will occa
sionally take a cold, especially when
I colds are epidemic, and when you do
you will find Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy a great' help in. enabling you
to get rid of it. Try it. Obtainable
everywhere. . I ' j&ji
WAS LAID OUT FOR DEAD
Alfred James Seriously Injured by
Backward Fall from Car.
Alfred James, of Crab Orchard,
was seriously injured Saturday when
he fell out of a car backwards while
loading telephone poles. The log
hook he was using slipped and he
lost his balance, falling backwards,
and striking on his head, which was
torn open. Mr. James was knocked
unconscious and for a while it was
thought that he was dead and he was
laid out preparatory to being moved,
when he began to show signs of life.
Dr. Edmiston was summoned and is
doing everything possible for him.
An examination showed that the skull
was not fractured, but the shock was
a terrible one on the head and Mr.
James is in a very serious condition.
NEGRO ELEMENT OF G. O. P.
Makes Demand Upon State Commit
tee for a Full Vote.
The leadership of the negro ele
ment in the republican party, vari
ously estimated at from 65,000 to
85,000 votes, responding to a call
from George W. Gentry of Stanford,
met in Lexington Thursday and re
solved to demand of the State Cen
tral Committee a full vote on the
delegation from the state-at-large to
the national convention at Chicago.
Their protest against the action of
the republican convention at Louis
ville is to be conveyed to State Chair
man Ed T. Franks, of Owensboro,
by a special committee, headed by E.
E. Underwood, a leading negro of
Frankfort, but it remains to be seen
if their wishes will be respected.
If one of the seven white men who
were named on the delegation to be
headed by Edwin P. Morrow should
resign, the situation would be easy
of solution, but judging from the
manner in which certain of these pie
hungry ones forced themselves on it
and caused the enlargement from
four to eight it would seem that they
would as readily part with an eye as
to give up the preferred pos'tion for
the grand distribution of.. Federal
patronage' in the event of the return
of the Republican party to power in
Washington as the result of the next
November election.
The negroes got another poke in
the ribs last week when Robert H.
Lucas was elected Chairman of the
Republican City and County Commit
tee for Louisville and Jefferson coun
ty. Luoas was a progressive in 1913
and supported Wood Axton for May
or. Moreover, he was a party to the
passage of the rule barring negroes
from seats as delegates in Progres
sive conventions. Therefore William
Leonard, a negro committeeman, op
posed Lucas' election and left the
meeting when it was announced he
had defeated William Heyburn, an
old-line republican, 23 to 14 votes.
MARCH COURT AT STANFORD.
A good run of cattle was in the
pens here Monday, March court day,
almost 1,000 being weighed up dur
ing the day. A fine crowd was in
town and business was brisk along
all lines. Most of the beeves brought
to the market here were light heifers
and steers, nothing of much quality
being offered. The demand for them
was fairly good, however, and few
were taken home unsold. An unusu
ally large number of sales by the
head were made and some expert
stockmen figured that some of the
light steers which were sold without
weighing, would have brought al
most 10 cents a pound, the way they
sold by the head. Mules were here
in droves, but buyers were not active,
and a lot did not sell. Only choice
animals were in demand, and they
sold ,up to $160 a head.
SAID UNCLE SAM:
"There I was a-chewin' peppergrass
and chili sauce and mustard
And wishin' I could catch some cuss
and beat him to a custard,
And then I looked at Wilson he
wasn't even flustered."
"Yes sir; there "was Woodrow Wilson,
going steady as a clock.
With eyes as soft as heaven and a
chin like Plymouth Rock,
With a kindness all commendable and
a sanity unendable,
So says I, 'Well, I'm for Wilson,
Woodrow Wilson the Depend
able!' "
THE COURT OF LAST RESORT.
Around the stove of the cross roads
grocery is real court of last resort,
for it finally over-rules all others.
Chamberlain's Cough Reme'dy has
been brought before this court in al
most every cross roads grocery in
this country, and has always receiv
ed a favorable verdict. It is in the
country where man expects to re
ceive full value for his money that
this remedy is most appreciated. Ob
tainable everywhere.
OLDEST WOMAN
IN GARRARD DIES
Mrs. Elizabeth Mason Passes Away at
Home of Son, W. B. Mason,
In 90th Year.
Lancaster, March 13.
Mrs. Elizabeth Mason died at the
home of her son, William B. Mason,
after having been confined to her
bed for about two weeks from the in
firmities of extreme age, having
passed her 90th birthday on Janu
ary 27th, on which date a happy
family re-union was held, a natal
repast spread in her honor, and a
"post-card shower" arranged by the
members of the Christian church ex
pressive of the highest esteem and af
fection. She was the oldest resident
of Lancaster, and was greatly be
loved and revered as the last of the
"old-time gentlewomen" belonging to
a former era of "dignified demeanor
and courtly courtesy." She came of
pioneer stock, having been a Miss
Logan, of the family for which Lo
gan's Fort was named. She was a
member of the Christian church at
this place, being its oldest communi
cant, having made the good confes
sion 67 years ago, and having been
immersed in a pond within less than
one hundred yards of the dwelling
where she spent the last years of her
life. She leaves two sons, Mr. Wil
liam B. Mason, of this city, where she
has made here home for a number of
years, and George T. Itlason, of Chi
cago; she also leaves four grand
daughters, and one grandson. The
funeral services were conducted Sun
day afternoon by the Christian min
ister, Elder F. M. Tinder, after
which the interment followed in the
Lancaster cemetery.
GARRARD COUNTY CLERK DEAD
J. W. Hamilton, who has been crit
ically ill, died last Friday of a
complication of diseases, age 39. The
funeral services vrere conducted
Sunday afternoon by Rev. S. H. Pol
litfc. The Odd Fellows attended in a
bordy afld held" funeral rifes-aCTtlfd"
grave. The deceased was quite a
popular man, being of a courteous,
genial disposition. He had held the
office of circuit clerk for two terms,
and that of county clerk for five
years. Besides his wife and two lit
tle sons, he leaves an aged mother,
three sisters, Mrs. A. J. Dunn, of
Danville, Mrs. A. W. Hay, of Belle
vue and Mrs. Hallie Dunlap, of this
place, and two brothers, James I.
Hamilton and H. Clay Hamilton, of
Lancaster.
FOLLOWS BROTHER TO GRAVE.
Shortly after the death of her bro
ther, B. D. Hiatt, who passed away
near Mt. Moriah last week, his sister,
Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Bastin, follow
ed him into the Great Beyond. Mrs.
Bastin died at her home near High
land Sunday, at the ripe old age of
70 years, and the funeral service
was conducted by J. C. McClary, of
this city, Tuesday. Mrs. Bastin was
the widow of the late Alex Bastin,
who died in 1905, and was one of the
best known residents of the High
land section. The deceased had long
been a faithful member of the Mt.
Moriah Christian church, and was be
loved by all who knew her. She was
in her 70th year. She is survived
by five children, who have the sym
pathy of many friends in their loss.
Davis Store
Mr. Leslie Anderson, of Texarka
na, surprised his home folks and his
host of friends in this section, by
giving them a short visit unexpected
ly Sunday and Monday. He called
on the I. J. correspondent and told
him he was paying a dollar a year
for that valuable paper, and that he
wanted more news from hoe mor we
could take the consequences. So we
thought writing a letter would be
easier than taking a licking.
Mrs. Jane Coleman, who has been
very low with grip and infirmities of
old age, is better at this writing.
Eld. J. G. Livingston filled his ap
pointment at Pine Grove Sunday.
A large crowd was in attendance'
considering the bad roads and the
inclemency of March weather.
George McKinney, who has been"
quite sick with grip is considerably
better.
Wm. Anderson bought a bunch of
hogs from Gotlieb Ollish.
Henry Woods sold a horse to Joe
Coleman for $125.
Mrs. Alva Holwell, of New Albany,
Ind., is visiting her parents, Mr. and;
Mrs. John Bowen.
Mr. and Mrs. John Hayes, of Som-
erset, are visiting relatives in. this
section. .
a
i
i
V
