n tt tt
::
tt
FtrI 'tF tF
IMiOSl'KK'TY TALK
WEATHER REPORT
TyTCJRsTriIsrC3
If you want to n-iil pnnprit y
wftit until nixt 1 Ir- wln-n AMrtf
Mil-inn mnipU1' $ 1 7.i"").n'iO burnt
join tirtiiil.i with Al (i I'lt'lfl'tt futiUMi
trolil lininl Hint lend tlii tnit Mi rim-r
puntde (tr'-itt ht ii f '
OKLAHOMA: Sunday fiir, iliglitly
winner- MtHidav fair.
Tl'I.J.l. Miin-h 11 Minimum
V trinpprutiire (i", minimum 110. South
wimin snu cltr.
VOL. XI, NO. 153
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, TUESDAY. MARCH It, 1 ! 1 ti
1 2 P All ES
PRICK FIVE CENTS
It
is :t n
5 S
5Fv
J II
JiY neMSci wi
1
3
j
4
r
CARRANZA MAY
CHASE BANDITS
ACROSS BORDER
President Wilson Agrees to
the Demands of Chief
Carranza.
WORKING AGREEMENT
HELPS U. S. SOLDIERS
General Funston Carefully
Planning Campaign to
Be Followed.
WASHINGTON, March 13. The
I'niU'd Stutcs government en
tered 'nt( a formul agreement with
the do facto government of Mexico to
t'.uy iimler which American troops w ill
cross the border to hunt down Villa
and his bandits with the expectation
ol hearty co-operation from the Cur
ranzii forces.
fccereiury Lansing niaiio public llio
text of a note accepting General Car
li'tina's proposal for a reciprocal ar
rangement between the two govern
ments anil announcing that I ho Fniiel
Stall's Held this arrangement to bo
It- force and binding upon both par
tied. Official announcement was
awaited tonight that the. American
foice bad crossed the border. I'lans
for the troop movements have gone
ahead without regard to the diplo
matic exchanges.
Lansing's Statement.
Mr. Lansing also made public a
statement issued in the name of
J 'resident Wilson reiterating tint
every step being taken by Iho admin
istration is based on the deliberate
intention to preclude the possibility
of urtucd Intervention In Mexico. Tlu
htalemnnt follows:
'In order to remote nny mls-
lipiircl slim that may exist
clllier In the I'nltcd Stales or In
Mexico, I he president has author
ized me lo give in his inline the
public assurance that Ihe mili
tary operations now hi coiitein
I'lailon by this gotcriiiiieiil will
he scrupulously confined lo the
object already announced and
that in no circumstances will
they lie stifi'-red to infringe in
iinv ilegrcc iioii the sovereignly
of ' Mexico or develop into Inter
iciiti'in of any Win! in the In
ternal arrnirs of our sister re
luih.lc. On tile contrary, what Is
now being done Is deliberately
Inlciiilcd to preclude the imissI
hl'ity or intervention."
The note to Carranze declines the
terms of the agreement beyond tho
possibility of misconstruction. In
lirlif, It ' provides that where condi
tions arise on the American side of the
herder similar to those at Columbus
which led to the orders to General
Funston to enter Mexico, the same
privib ire will be uccorded to the Mex
ican de facto government without ne
cessity of u further exchange of views.
-It Is elenrely stated, however, that the
bandits to be pursued on American
soil hv Mexican troops must have
come from the American side, com
mitted depredations on the Mexican
Utile, and fled back again to 1'nited
Slates territory. There Is no such In
stance on record In recent years.
Mexicans .luhllant.
Officials at the Mexican embassy
were jubilant over the acceptance of
General Currunzu's proposal by tho
I'nited States. The ambassador des
ignate, ICliseo Arredondo, withheld
comment 'pending advices from his
c hief but other officials made no se
cret of their entire satisfaction with
tho American note. It was trans
mitted promptly to General Carranza.
Some officials said that while a few
extreme radirals among Carranza ad
herents might show opposition to the
agreement this element would not be
impor'nlit nor would it influence tho
relations between tho two govern
ments. Advices to the navy dearptment .to
day from Vera Cruz, Tampico and
nt Iter points on the Mexican gulf
coast tended to confirm this view.
Commanders of American warships
at these ports said the publication
there of the intention of the I'nited
States to send armed forces after
Villa had caused no excitement or
uneasiness. There were no indica
tions of, anti-American demonstra
tions, the messages said, even when it
appeared doubtful what course tho
Carranza government would pursue.
tjjrcMincheirta pnddmieiisS tuol uaeaoe
Stop .Munitions
To prevent any war munitions from
reaching Villa from the United
States the treasury department toduy
instructed its collectors at San Krun
cisco, Nogules. and Los Angeles, to
place an embargo on shipment of
arms and ammunition through those
points Into Mexico. The embargo af
fects the principal commercial gate
way to Chihuahua, Sonora, and Lower
California and is regarded as suffi
cient in extent to make certain that
. Villa will not be supplied from this
country. There Is no present Inten
tion to extend It to other Mexican
territory.
While General Funston was pro
reeding with his arrangements to
pursue the bandits and end their ac
tivities once and for all, the war de
partment was unusually quiet today.
Scores of telegrams came from the
border dealing with troop movements,
supplies and other countless details of
military operations; hut no word that
the forces had gone Into Mexico. The
dispatches have not yet disclosed to
the department an outline of General
(Continued on Page Six.)
TO TIIH VOTI'.HS OF TI I.SA CITY
AM) Tl'LSA C'OI NTY, OKLA
HOMA: Wo respectfully request that you
attend tho Republican caucuses to be
held this evening at 7:30 o'clock In
your respective precincts and vote for
delegates favorable to James J. Mc
Graw. Mr. McOraw stands for party or
ionization, but against machine rule
and domination. Ho believes In full
and free participation in all party af
fairs by all voters. He believes that
tho liepublicans can carry the state
of Oklahoma, and will actively and
uncompromisingly use every effort to
this end. He believes that tho Hc
publlcan party Is the only power that
can relievo against the burdensome
taxes now Imposed upon tho people
of this state.
Tho men who are candidates for
delegates to the county convention
and are favorable to Mr. MrOrnw for
national committeeman likewise be
lieve In the sentiments. They are all
clean, capable, representative men,
worthy of your support, and pledge
(hemselves to faithfully perform the
duties of delegates to the Republican
county convention to the end that
harmony in the party will prevail,
that "machine" domination will be
eradicated, that all voters have un
equal voice in tho party, thut good
and capable men lie selected for of
fice and that the Republican party
will bo successful In Tulsa city and
county.
Your support Is respectfully so
licited.
TFLSA COl'NTV COMM1TTICIC
FOR JAM ICS J. M'OKAW
SEES GRAVE DANGER
IN MEXICAN POLICY
Senator Chamberlain Fears
Complications Which
Mav Arise.
IMMEDIATE ACTION
Preparedness Hills Will Not
Stand Further Delay,
'Tis Thought.
TrASilINGTON, March 13 Dan
ger of grave complications
growing out of tho sending of Amer
ican troops into Mexico to hunt down
Villa and his bandits was urged In tho
senate today by Sonator Chamber
lain, chairman of thn military com
mittee, and Senator Tinrah, - Republi
can, in advocating laying aside tem
porarily nil other legislation I a order
to dispose promptly of preparedness
measures. Their statements precipi
tated a generaj discussion In which
Senators Vardaimin and Simmons
deprecated suggestions that the
I'nited States wus not prepared to
deal wiUi any situation that might
arise in its relations with Mexico.
While the senate' debate was in
progress Speaker Clark and Majority
leader Kitcliin were reporting to
their colleagues of t lie house on a
conference early In the day with
1'resldent Wilson, who urged them to
speed up the legislative program wl'h
u view to action on all Important
measures in time for Hdj join anient in
June. The house lenders agreed that
It would be Impossible to accomplish
the task ahead in so short a time, al
though steps will be taken to hurry
on with the work as rapidly as pos
sible. Doiinnnds for immediate action on
the pi cparedness bills were made 'n
(Continued on Page Six.)
AS TO TIIIC CITY CAMPAIGN.
The World is sorry to burn that
1C. H. Kemp decided not to become a
i undulate for mayor of the city of
Tulsa, before the primary on the
litralght Republican ticket. The
World had sincerely hoped that Mr,
Kemp would become a candidate and
would huve given him Its loyal sup
port for such position. However, The
World is glad to know that Or. S. D,
1 law-ley and John II. Simmons have
consented to become candidates lie
fore the Republican primary for this
Important position, and that a num
tier of prominent business men, good
citizens and stuunch Republicans,
liave volunteered to become candi
dates fur positions upon the city
commission and for city auditor, and
we believe that a strong ticket of
capable business men can be selected
from the list of names presented as
candidates for the several city offices
to be elected in the spring campaign
The city of Tulsa has reached a
vital period In the matter of Its
growth and development. We are
'just passing from tho class of a large
town to that of a city. There aro a
tiumher of Important municipal nn
Hons which affect vitally the future
growth and development of the city
which are pressing for solution and
must ho met by those Intrusted with
(Continued on Pace Two.)
Indications Point to
Harris Delegations
5 '
j .
Oklahoma ZZZjZZ 'lari nu: f ni-,- I tH
Lcrov&?ccrs jj -Lgl Tl f --JJT Trlt
Republican caucuses will be h'-ld In every voting privlnct of T'lls.i
county today for the purpose of electing delegates to the county convcn'iuii
on March 18 nnd a member of the county committee from each precinci.
Tho precinct committeemen will call the caucuses to order in tho rural dis
tricts at 2:30 p. in. and in the city of Tulsa at ":3U p. ni. A ebuirmun
and secretary of the caucus will lie elected then will follow the regular order
of busipess. All indications point to 'be election ol .1 nti-l lurrls delegations
in practically every precinct, as liepublicans here are almost a unit In stand
ing for a "new deal" in Okluhoma.
The caucus meeting places for the cby of Tulsa and the number of dele
gates each Is entitled to are as follows:
No. 1. Render building-, city commissioners' room, fourth floor four
delegates.
No. 2. Convention hall five delegates.
No. 3 Central fire station four delegates.
No. 4. Vacant store room on uliey, under Hamilton hotel, Fourth street
entrance four delegates.
BANK CALL FIGURES
ARE EXTRAORDINARY
Deposits Made Keniarkahle
Cain Since the Previous
Announcement.
MORE THAN $24,000,000
Exchange National De
posits Went Up $3,000,
000 in Short Time.
WITH J4.016.092.1 S on deposit in
Tulsa banks, according to fig
ures forthcoming yesterday as u re
sult of the government bank call, this
city onco more Is attracting ntten
tlon throughout the I'nited States.
The hug increase in deposits counted
with the remarkable figures produced
by the Tulsa Clearing House asso
ciation for ttie week ended last Thurs
day, March 9. which Miowed an in
crease of 171.4 over the previous
week, is something which cannot be
Ignored as one of the best evidences
of prosperity, and capital through the
country Is looking longingly in this
direction.
The Increase In bank deposits here
since Saturday, J.inuury 8, 116, was
J7, 798. 526. 23, end thti business appar
ently Is evenly distributed, the smuller
institutions sharing in the prosperity
cf the larger. Although figures from
other cities of the country, and par
ticularly of Oklahoma, are also ex
pected to show substantial Increases,
It Is a certainty those produced In
(Continued on rage Five.)
Victory for tu "r08 ,UW " by the
in All the Precincts
Reply of United States to Chief
Carranza Accepting His Agreement
This Is the text of the reply lo (bneral Can anza's piopos.il, si-rt li
American Consul Silliiuan:
"The government of the I'nited Slates lias reciived the courteu'is now
of Senor Acuna and has read with satisfaction his suggestion lor recipi-oc.il
privileges to the American and Mexican an l limit lis in the pursuit and 'ipum
liensiou of outlaws who infest their respective territorii s iing along mo
international boundary and who are a coiis'ant menace t' tlu lives nil
property of residents of that region.
"The government of tho I'nited Stales, in view of the unusual state of
nffairs which has existed tor some time along the iniernationa I biiiiuila ry and
earnestly desiring to co-operate with the de facto government of Mexico lo
suppress this state of lawlessness, ot v tiicli the lecent itttai k on I 'otumliiis,
N. M., is a deplorable example, and to insure peace and order In i he region
contiguous to the boundary bcl ween the tvvo republics, readily giants per
mission for military forces of the dc facto govei nmeiit of .Mexico, to cross I ho
International boundary in pursuit ot lawless bands of armed men wineii
have entered Mexico Irom the I'nited Slates, committed oiitia-ica on Mexican
soil ami fled into the I'nited States, on the understanding that the de facto
government of Mexico grants the reciprocal privilege that the military forces
of the I'nited States may pursue across the international bouiularv Int i
Mexican territory lawless bands of armed men who have entered ilie I'loie l
Stales from Mexico, committed outrages on American soil and tied i.i t
Mexico.
"The government of the I'nited States understand!' thai in view ol Its
agreement to this reciprocal arrangement proposed by the de facto govern
ment, the arrangement Is now complete and in force and the reciprocal priv
ileges thereunder may accordingly be exercised by either government without
further interchange of views.
"It Is a mutter of sincere gratification lo the government of the I'nited
States that the de facto government of Mexico has evinced so cordial and
friendly a spirit of co-operation in the efforts of the authorities of tho
I'nited States to apprehend and punish the bands of outlaws who Mk the
refugu beyond the International boundary in the ern. neons belief that lie
constituted authorities will resent any pursuit across the leiuieliiry by tha
forces of the government whose citizens have sulfered b the crimes of the
fugitives.
"With the same spirit of cordial friendship, the government of Hie
I'nited States will exercise tho privilege grunted by the de facto government
in Mexico in the hope and confident expectation that by their mutii.-il etforts
lawlessness will be erailn -atod and pent; and .uder nmiiituli.ed In the terri
tories ol I lie I'nited Slates and Mexico contiuuoas to tic iiiieriiatiiiii.il
boundary."
Clark Won't Itc IMcgalc.
WASHINGTON. March 13. Speak
er ''hump Clark will not be a dele
gate lo the Democratic national con
vention at St. Louis next June. He
announced today thut it would be im
possible for him to act as a delegate
us many Missouri Democrats huve
suggested, because the house probably
would be in session at convention
time. Under the rules he cannot ap
at the Caucuses to
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
t'ailillac garage six delegates
Justice Schaller's office, court house five delegates.
Wesl Side grocery six delegatus.
Irving school four delegates.
I ml in h grocery. Huliilh I'laei seven delegates.
North sl.l" fire Million five delegates.
I Mile Mali-hull's store, Admiral boulevard - five dcley ites.
l-.ast side l ire Mai ion three delegates.
Smith's old Rclhiew store on South I'eoriu and Fourteenth
lies.
Jeffery gnage. ICighth and Main six delegates.
I'haluii'is guiage, ICighth and Main seven delegiles
l.imb'cv seboolbouse I ICi ei-vicw school i l ive delegates
Haw kin s store, West Tulsn -two lelegales.
Cody's store, Sevenleent I: and Main -rinc delegates.
Glace M. K. church. Collins and Itoekford three delegates.
Sand Springs Minimi, wort end of Third street viaduct - l o
e llcleg
No 1
No. 1.".
No. Hi
No. IT.
No. IS
No. I !
No. I'D
gales.
dele
point an acting speaker for more than
one day except in case of Illness.
Al Slum lo Toledo.
TOLTCiiO. Ohio, March 13 linger
llrespuhun, manager of the local
American association baseball club,
today signed Outfielder Al Shaw as
a member of his team. Shaw played
Willi the Kansas City Federal team
last year.
Election of Anti-
be Held Tonight
HAVE SUFFICIENT
TROOPS NOW READY
I Headier (iciicral John J.
IVrsliiii"; in Command
ol' Troops.
WORK OUT DETAILS
Complete .Motor Supply
Train Will Ue I'scd in
Kxpedition.
SAN ANTONIO, March 13 A suf
ficient force is now gathered at
the Mexican border, under the com
r.iuiid of Hrlg. (ien. John J. Fershlng,
to begin the pursuit of Francisco
Villa, It whs announced tonight by
Major C.encral Frederick Funston.
The general saiu I nut only the com
pletion of plans for backing up the
expeditionary force now was needed,
lie was noncommittal, however, as
to the time needed to accomplish
this.
Ceneral Funston said that reports
that American troops alreudy had
been ordered lo cross the border in
pursuit oT V illa were untrue. Reiter
ating previous statements, he said It
would be useless to send anything but
a strong, well prepared force into
Mexico.
That the expeditionary force will
he a strong one wus Indicated by a
statement by the general that when
the expedition was fully organi.ed
theie would he only six or eight rcgi-
(Continued on Page Nine)
RED FEZ WILL
LEAD INVASION
OF CITY TODAY
Akdar Temple's Ceremonial
Session to Attract
Ma n v Hundreds.
CANDIDATES IN FOR
AN UNUSUAL TREAT
Convention Hall Sands Aro
Hot; Minstrel Show
for Tonight.
TODAY'S IMKK.RAM
The First Thing Nobles und
Novices must report early and
register.
11 a. in. to t:3U p. in. Lunch
eon at Convention hall.
1:311 p. m. I'arade, starting
from Shrine heaibiuarters.
2 p. m. Itusiness meeting at
Convention hall. Concert by Ak
dar's famous band and drill by
Akdar's inimitable patrol.
2:311 p. m. Ceremonial session
al Convention hall.
8:3(1 p. in. Al li. Field's Min
strels at Convcn'ion hall, exclu
sively for Sbrlneis and their la
dies. Ladles' heaibiuiirlers nl Ma.
sonic hall. & 1 S South Main,
luncheon, uulo rides, etc., for
ladies.
TIIIC blare of brass, the sign of the
red fez and the flash
of brilliant uniforms this inornlntr
and continuing throughout the day
will herald Hie advent of the great
inravans of the desert wastes cf Ok
lahoma who will effeit a glganlle
mobilization lo indulge In tl.e many
good things planned for Akdar Shrine
Temnle's spring ceremonial.
Already several camel trains have
arrived and discharged their cargos.
Many of the faithful have already
sought shelter under the bunner of
Akdar and by the lime the late ar
rivals reach here II Is expected that
fully two thousand wise men.- proph
ets, emirs and bedouins will lie as
sembled. Decorators and artists were en
gaged yesterday In turning Conven
tion ball into ,i veritable fairyland
and the work was not completed until
late at night.
The ci ti iiioii ia 1 bids fair to be one
of the greatest Masonic gatherings In
the history of Oklahoma and every
thing is in readiness for the enter
talnmrnt of the visllors.
Dig Street I'liraile.
The program for the days is replete
with feu lures. Al 1:3(1 o'eloi-:- the
great parade headed by Al (1. Field's
gold minstrel band will leave head
quarters. In the line will be Akdar's
famous patrol. Akdar's 3.ri piece band,
(Continued on 1'nge Five )
STORYOF INCEST
IS FINALLY TOLD
Woman TelU of llack b Her
I'lilher When She Hli"
a C hild.
Own
Spi'i lit I in Tin' VV'i.r.'il.
MAI.KSTKIl. oKla.. M.in-li 13
After more than three years of wait
ing, partly caused by the fact that
the defendant was a fugitive from
lustice much of the time. .Marunret
Stewart, now married and living at
Wllliiirtoii. told in the district court
Ibis afternoon a story of incest in
which she declared her father. F.d
ward f'ardiilgc. was g'liltv of crime
at a time when she was but thirteen
ef.iii'd j.f nen 'Pile ihirie 1'M first
brought against I'aitlulge in the fall
of 1 :i i .'.
A mob threatened him f.n- a time.
Then when released on bund, he
si i plied the country nnd was cap
tured two veins later, living in a tent
i,i the Ktan.a- ii hills, alter detec
tives in the employ of his bondsmen
had sciirchPil all over Ilie country
fur him Cartlulge shifts the blame
for his daughter's disgrace upon a
young man who had boarded with
them.
Isks SJIMIilli OI IKK k I Sl.M
Service Letter, Man Diiliuc. Inter.
f i rrs I With Sii-iiring work
Sii'ri in The WurM.
OKI.AIH iMA CITV. March 13.
Alleging that he lias been unable to
secure a Job on a railroad because of
a service letter from the Rock Island
Daniel J. Ferry, foinierlv employed
on that road, has sued the company
fur $2il,0iill damages.
I'erry Minis that while ho was em
ployed by the company he sustained
personal injuries. The company
helped with bis i-Mieiises until he was
pronounced well. He then applied for
a Job und he says was refused. He
was given a, service letter which he
ays contained the statement that he
was dismissed on account of responsi
bility In a personal Injury to himself.
This statement. I'eriv says, bus pre
vented lull! securing employment, und
be believes he has been damaged.
Lives On His Itirllulay.
ST. I.Ol'IS, March 13. Fruncls It.
Peters, a heavy stockholder in tho
shoe manufacturing concern, cele
brated bis seventy --fifth birthday ny
giving each of his five sons and his
two married daughters $si).l)n() worth
of stock In the corporation. The gifU
aggregated loOO.OUO.
