THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 308.
1IAHHK. VEHMOXT, TUESDAY, MAUCII IV 1010.
PKICK, OXK CKXT.
SMALL BANDS
DRIVEN BACK
A French Oflicial Statement
Tells of Minor Successes
at Two Points
HEAVY ARTILLERY
FIRING CONTINUES
Near Vaux There Seemed
to Be the Most
Activity
Belfast, Me March 14. Edgar F. Han
son, nine timea mavor of thi city, wal
defeated for reelection yesterday, carry
ing only two of t he five ward. One of
Paris, March 14. Lasi niifht MV a the agent a of Ins downfall was Nov. il-
continuance of artillery activity on the ilia m Shaw of Montpelier, t., who de
REPUBLICANS GAINED
ANOTHER CITY
When E. F. Hanson W Defeated for
Mayor in Belfast, Ma. A Democrat
Waa Elected in Biddeford.
Portland, Me., March 14. Four out of
tlu live city election in Maine ycHtcrilay
were won by the Republicans, The only
Democratic sueces wan in Biddeford,
where Leopold A. (iirard waa elected.
In three of the cities. Republican may
ora were returned to ollice, Blaine S. Vile
Iwinjr successful in Augusta, John
Woodman in Bangor, and rrank 11. Nick
erson in Brewer. In the latter city, the
Democrat made no nomination.
The Democrat in Belfast, headed liy
former Mayor Edgar F. Hanson, made an
unsuccessful effort to win hack the city,
and William K. Keene, the Republican
candidate, wa elected by a majority of
Republican.
04. while three of the Ihe warda went
VILLA
DRAWN
IN NET
Carranza Troops Arc Re
ported to He Doing What
United States Army Was
Mobilized For and Held in
Readiness on the Mexican
Border
Verdun front. Went of the Mciiho the
cannonading wai fairly violent and a
reconnaissance on the part or tne i,er
mans in the wood of liaudremont w
checked by the French, according to the
official announcement tin afternoon
There wna aevcre cannonading near
Vaux and also in the Woevre district,
and in the wood of Lepetre a German do
taciiment advancing on a French trench
was driven back, the statement says.
BOSTON MANICURIST
SHOT THREE TIMES
Mrs. Violet Mooers Said to Have Been
Shot By Irving E. Olmstead Be
cause She Double Crossed
Him.
Boston, March 14. Mrs. Violet Mooers,
a manicurist, was shot three times and
probably fatally wounded nt her ollice in
tho shopping district last niglit. When
the police arrived in response to a tele
phone summons thev found Irving K.
Olmstead of Xewtonville, a cotton goods
salesman, supporting the wounded wom
an on tho floor.
Alleged admission by him that ho had
shot Mrs. Mooers "because she double
crossed me after a three years' acquaint
ance," resulted in his arrest on a charge
of assault w ith intpnt to kill. At a hos
pital it was stated the woman probably
would die.
Miss Edith M. Haines, another mani
eurist, told the. officers that Mrs. Mooers
was operating on a customer's nails when
Olmstead appeared with a revolver and
threatened to shoot her. The customer
fled, according to Miss Haines, while Mrs.
Mooers dared the man to fire. It was
after she refused to meet Olmstead again
that the latter shot, Miss Haines said.
Two of the five bullets went wild.
Olmstead, who is 44 years old, is mar
ried and has two children.
bated against Hanson at Montpelier sov- fi T?I?AM7A PflMMANIi-
em I week acrn when the nrohibition bill
wa under consideration there. Hanson Jg CONFIDENT
lost tne election dv vt votes,
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTING.
Meanwhile American Troops
Have Not Left American
Territory Since the First
Dash, and Washington's
Suspense Is Lessened
Town Elections and Presidential Prima r
ies Held To-day
Concord, N. H., March 14. Tow n meet
in cs, with special elections in cities and
direct presidential primaries, were held
in .New Hampshire to-day. There were
live candidates for four places for dele-
gatcs-at-large on the Republican ticket".
hour were unpledged, the fifth, rrank"
H. tallis of Manchester, announcing him
self nledced to vote for Roosevelt. There
were no contests for places on the Demo- El Paso, Tex., March 14. Francisco
cratic or Progressive tickets. All but Villa, heading south, is now encircled by
one of the Democratic candidates was a,,,, troops according to advices
I Ail tv nit Wilaiin I
171 I t rAm I -Anatf at 1 I it i f n t mt-vai frr r a
a a vtu uviivtai uui vuk'VM "t Vuiiuim aa
'DRYS' WIN VICTORY IN " ZZT '77:
MANITOBA ELECTION inforoements on their wy- h thinks
Villa has small chance to escape
Returns from the Rural Districts Seem
to Indicate That Bars, Liquor
Houses and Clubs Will
Have to Close
June 1.
from Mexico, committed outrage on
American soil and Hell Into Mexico.
"The government of the United Wales
understand that In view of It agree
ment to the reciprocal arrangement pro
posed by the de facto government, tho
arrangement is now complete and In force
and the reciprocal privilege thereunder
mar accordingly I exercised by either
government without further interchaiigo
of view.
"It i a matter of sincere gratification
to the government of the I'nited States
that the de facto government of Mexico
ha evinced mi cordial and friendly a spirit
of cooperation in the effort of the au
thorities of the I'nited State to appre
hend and punish the band of outlaw
who seek refugo beyond the international
boundary in the erroneoti belief that the
constituted authorities will resent any
pursuit across the boundary by the forces
of tho government whose citizen have
suflered by the crime of the fugitive.
"With the lame spirit of cordial friend
ship the government of the United State
will exercise the privilege granted by the
de facto government of Mexico in the
tiope and confident expectation that by
their mutual efforts lawlessness will be
eradicated and peace and order main
tained in the territories of the United
State and Mexico contiguous to the in
ternational border."
PROMISES
AMENDS
BOARD RESERVED DECISION.
Germany Does if Silius Was
Attacked by German
Submarine
AUSTRIA PRESENTS
COUNTER CLAIMS
VILLA TO 3IAKE STAND
IN NARROW PATH
MISSING HEIR RETURNS.
Refuses to Give Account of His Eight
Years' Absence.
Tort Alleghany, Pa., March 14 Keith
E. Dalrymple, heir to a fortune of $100,
000, who has been missing eight years
and for whom a nation-wide search has
been made, returned to his former home
here yesterday. He refused to go into
details regarding his wandering except
to say that during that time. he had vis-
. ited various parts of the country, mak
ing his living by doing odd jobs. Dal
rymple disappeared at the age of 15 years
while visiting Dr. and Mrs. Charles M.
Palmer, relatives of his family, at Sa
lome Springs, Ark. The young heir was
found, by Dr. Palmer in a Missouri state
hospital following the receipt of a letter
. saying he was sick and asking that some
one cGme and get him. Dr. Palmer at
once recognized him and brought him,
here.
Attorneys for the estate say there is
no doubt but that he is the real Keith
Palrymple. Since he disappeared, hun
dreds of messages and letters have been
received here from persons claiming to
Winnipeg, March 14. Returns from
the rural district emphasize a dry vic
tory in yesterday' referendum vote on
the Manitoba temperance act. The re-
Circumstantial Story Has it That He
Will Fight American Expedition
at Ojitos Which is Well
Adapted for Successful
Defense.
EI Faso, Texas, March 14. A circum
stantial story reached here to-day that
Villa has once more changed his plans
and would make a stand against the
American expedition at Ojitos, a pass in
narrow pap in the western Chihuahua
Sierras, through which ha made the dash
on Columbus.
Americans familiar with .the country
assert that the Ojitos pass is admirably
adapted for a successful defense if Villa
intends to risk an open engagement with
the American troops.
Alleges That Allied Subma
rines Fired on Aus
trian Ships
Washington, D. C, March 14. Unoffi
cial advices received here to-day indicate
that Germany will make complete amends
to the Unit I'd States, if it is found that
a German submarine' torpedoed the Nor
wegian bark Silius, from which seven
Americans escaped.
Austria has presented to the United
States report of instances in which it is
charged that Austrian merchant ships
were torpedoed without warning bv al
lied submarines, presumably British.
CARRANZA MOVES SOLDIERS.
CARRANZA PLEASED
OVER AGREEMENT
Washington Officials Have Relieved Their
Tension and Secretary Lansing
Starts on a Vacation.
Washington. I). C, March 14. The state
suit will close on June 1st, 200 bars, 42 department agents along the border re
wholesale liquor houses and seven clubs. (ortfid to.day tliat Carrunza received the
American government's note accepting
ASSERTED INNOCENCE the P!"1 r reciprocal agreement
T7rnv TXTr pursuit of outlaws and was fa
TO THE VERY END Uorablv imDressed with it.
Official reports from the border to-day
Retkovitx Electrocuted in Boston for the contained no word of imjioi taut troop
Sends Them to Nacozari, Where There
Are Now 1200 Men.
Douglas, Mil., March 14. Between
seven and eight hundred Carranza boI
diers left Agua Prieta, across the border
from here, yesterday for Nacozari, 75
UNARMED; HAD NO WARNING.
Majority of Silius Qrew Made Statement
to Associated Press.
Havre, March 14. A majority of the
crew of the Norwegian bark Silius, which
waa sunk in Havre Roads last Thursday,
in statements to the Associated Press
to-day declared that the bark had been
torpedoed without warning by a subma
rine and that the vessel was unarmed.
The French steamer Louisiane and the
Silius lie within a hundred yards of each
other. The Silius was sent to the bot
tom half an hour after the liner had gone
down. Of the 17 members of the crew
of the Silius seven were American
youths novices who were making their
first voyage.
They said they signed because they
wanted to "see a little of the world."
Charles Cunliffe, 18 years old, of Atlantic
City, explained that the bark had been
buffeted by tempests for 31 days before
In Case of Richard Halsall Estate vs.
Marr & Gordon,
Expert testimony bulked large in the
;viilenc iitmitted before the ermoir
industrial board at a heuringiu Bane
yesterday afternoon in the case of the
estatii of Kichard Halsall against Marr A
(jordon. The hearing was held in the
ollice of S. Hollister Jackson with all
member of the board, Jtobert W. Si
moud of St. Johnsbury, Sunford K. Dan
iel of Urattleboro and Fred 8. Pease of
Burlington, present to consider the al
legations and rejoinders. Miss Laura
Burbank of St. Johnsbury acted as clerk.
Attorneys S. Hollister Jackson of Jiarre
and A. T. Porteous of New York, repre
sented Marr & Gordon and the Hoyal
Indemnity companv. Kev. Edgar Cross-
land was tho appearance for Mr, lial-
11, wife of the deceased, .thirteen wit
nesses were examined and when the hear
ing adjourned around 5 o'clock, it was
announced that decision would be re
served for a time, pending the customary
examination of the evidence.
The case involved the allegation that
the demise of Kichard Halsall, an ex-
soldier of the British army and formerly
a lumper in the employ of Marr 4, Gor
don, who passed awav Jan. 6, 1916, was
due to an accident which he sustained at
the Granite street plant of Marr & Gor
don on the loth day of September, llllo.
In its reply to the allegation, the defense
OLDER LAWYERS
ARE PASSING ON
Thomas J. Deavitt Died To
day in Montpelier, After,
50 Years' Practice
WAS WELL KN
7N
AS PENSIOAWYER
He Was President of Capi
tal Savings Bank Since
Its Foundation
The passing of the older attorneys of
Washington county was brought sharply
to attention to-day when notification
whs given by John W. Gordon at tha
opening session of Wushincton count v"
declared that the death of Mr. Halsall j TOl""t that a memorial service for John
ti. center wotua ne Held in the after-
miles south, where General P. Eliali
Calles, military governor of Sonora, is j tne French coast was Bighted. 'she was
ppareniiy concentrating nis avaimoie carried for nine davs out of her course
Murder of Mrs. Domba Premebida
Said He Was Not Afraid
to Die.
movements. Before going to the cabinet
meeting Secretary of War Baker said he
had nothing to indicate when the expedi
tion into Mexico would depart. Chair
man btone of the Senate foreign rcla-
BoBton, March 14. Anom Rctkovitz tions committee was told by President
was electrocuted in the state prison early " ll8on that conditions in .Mexico ap-
. , . . . ,, . , peared to be more favorable.
to-day for the murder of Mrs. Domba 1 . . T . , . .
' Secretary Lansing is on his way to
Premebida in Fall River just two years Pinehurst, North Carolina, for a week's
ago. I vacation. J he taking ol a vacation at
The current was anulied at 12:05 Ulls tlme 18 regarded as indicative of How
oi'clock. Retkovitz was officially pro
nounced dead at 12:09:10. He protested
his innocence to the last.
During conversation with Wnrden Na
than D. Allen, Retkovitz said to the o Hi
eials at the prison: "A guilty man is
afraid to die. A good man is not afraid
to die. Why should I be afraid?"
During the day the condemned man
wrote two letters, one to his father and
one to his mother, both of whom live in
Russia. In each letter Retkovitz pro
tested that he was innocent.
There were 10 witnesses to the execu
tion: Dr. Joseph I. McLaughlin, the pris
on physician; Dr. George B. Magrath,
medical examiner of Suffolk county; Dr.
Frank P. Williams, surgeon general of
the state militia; Edwin H. Evans, sher
iff of Bristol county, where the crime
, . , rr 1 , v, in i.-lwi i:wiiiii,y, nrir lilt! tllllie
be the missing heir. The appearance omlrm, Wardpn hzr D. Allen. Wil
of Dalrvmp e will put to an end the ,. Tr , , . , , , '
proceedings brought to have him declared 1 a'n JVy warden; A. J. Gor-
legally dead, which were to have been
heard on April 0,
IN SERIOUS CONDITION.
After 20-Foot Fall Onto Rocks in Connec
ticut River.
Bellows Falls, March 14. Charles M.
Royce. an employe of a local paper mill,
is in the Rockingham hospital with frac
tured boneg in one ankle and suffering
from exposure as the result of an acci
dent by which he fell into the swift
running waters of the Connecticut river
yestesday afternoon.
Royce was reading water levels when
he fell twenty feet into the river which
4 is hiirh ami rouirh. the point where he
fell being Ik-Iow the falls. He managed I tamed for 10 seconds. I his was dropped
don, a newspaper man; Rev. Sebastian
Kapenko, Retkovitz' spiritual adviser;
Rev. William B. Whitney, prison chap
lain, and Rev. M. J. Murphy, prison
chaplain.
Retkovitz walked to his death calmly
and helped adjust the death cap. He
was accompanied by Rev. Whitney, who
chanted the prayer for the dead, and
Rev. Kapenko. Retkovitz did not utter
a word.
Owing to the man's great strength, an
completely the state department regard
the Mexican siuation in the hands of
the army and that the understanding
with Carranza is complete.
Secretary Lansing made public the text
of a note, accepting General Carranza's
proposal for a reciprocal arrangement be
tween the two governments, and an
nouncing that the United States held
this arrangement to be now in force and
binding on both parties. General runs
ton will carrv out his task nder this
agreement. Plans for the troop move
meuts have gone ahead without regard to
the diplomatic exchanges.
Mr. Lansing also made public a state
ment issued in the name of President
Wilson reiterating that every step being
taken by the administration is based on
the deliberate intention to preclude the
possibility of armed intervention in Mexico.
The note to Carranza defines the terms
of the agreement beyond the possibili
ty of misconstruction. In brief it pro
vides that where conditions arise on tho
American side of the border similar to
those at Columbus which led to the or
ders to General Funston to enter Mex
ico the same privilege will be accorded
to the Mexican de facto government
without the necessity of a further e.x
troops, drawing them in from the bor
der.
In addition to the troops, more than
ten trains of supplies have been sent
south. It is reported that the garrison
at EI Eigre has received orders to march
overland to Nacozari at an hours no
tice. About 1200 soldier have now been
gathered at Nacozari. The purpose of
this concentration is not knowp here.
LIFTED ENGINE OFF
BODY BY DERRICK
W. E. Mountain, Canadian Pacific Rail
road Brakeman, Killed at Richford,
Being Dragged for Ten
Rods.
Richford, March 14. A derrick had to be
used to lift a Canadian Pacific railroad
engine off the mangled body of W. E.
Mountain, a brakeman, who was struck
and killed by the engine 100 rods from
the station here shortly before noon to
proceeded from natural causes, principal
y pleurisy.
Much ot the evidence sunmitica was
of a technical character. Physicians in
troduced by the claimant told of the
man's condition, Dr. 11. C. Tinkham, dean
of tho Medical college of the Universi
ty of Vermont, qualified as an expert
witness for the defense and five stone-
shed lumpers gave evidence that was
concerned with some of the technical
aspects of their trade. When the claim-
nt rested after 11 witnesses had testi
fied. Attorney Porteous moved that the
petition be dismissed on the grounds
that claimant failed to give due notice
of its intention to proceed against the
defendant and that the claimant 13"
failed to show where the death of Mr.
Halsall was due to an accident. The
motion was waived by the board, through
Chairman Bacon, and an exception was
taken.
Dr. O. G. Stickney testified as the phy
sician who first treated Halsall. Dr. M.
L. Chandler told of being called in coun
sel and both witnesses testified to an
explorative operation that Later led to
an operation for the removal of pus. Dr.
J. W. Jackson told of administering an
esthetics: preparatory to the operations,
which were performed at the City Hospi
tal. None of them would state that the
man's condition could not have been due
tr an aonidonf in wflii'h the fltteirpd vie
and the crew had been so overworked',., ; ; Q;,i TO;..,i ;;, ,,;,, in ihA
that they were looking forward to reach
ing port so as to rest and had quit
worrvtng about seeing the world. So
tired were the men that they were not
awakened by the explosion which sank
the Louisiane close by them.
CASES ARE ENDED
IN COUNTY COURT
Many of Them Stricken Off the Docket
at the Opening of the March Term
Judge Fred M. Butler Is
Presiding.
The March term of Washington county
court opened at Montpelier this morning
at 10 o'clock, with Judge Fred M. Butler
of Rutland presiding. The jury calendar
was read nt the outset and out of 52
cases listed 33 were set for trial. Sev
eral were passed and may be taken up
later in the term. The first case to be
noon, and it became known that Thomas
J. Deavitt, a well known Montpelier
man, had died this morning after two
weeks' illness and two years' poor health
with Bright' disease and heart trouble.
Mr. Senter died some weeks ago of heart
trouble at liis home in Montpelier.
Thomas Jefferson Deavitt was bom irt
Richmond Feb. 17, 1840, being the eldest
son of William and Chestina (Prescott)
Deavitt. When he was nine years old
his family moved to Moretown and there
the boy received his early schooling,
which was supplemented later with a
course at Barrc academy. He read lawr
in the office of Hon. Paul Dillingham at
Waterbury and was admitted to tho
Washington county bar in March, ISfifi,
juct half a century ago. He was admit
ted to practice before the supreme court
in August, 1808.
From the time of his first admission to
the bar, Mr. Deavitt practiced his profes
sion in Moretown, remaining there until
1875, when he moved to Montpelier.
Since the latter year he had conducted
an office on State street in that com
munity. For many years he had the
largest practice of any lawyer in New
England in pressing pension claims and'
was well known for service in that de
partment of, the legal profession.
While residing in Moretown he was su
perintendent of school and he waa chos
en as a delegate to the constitutional
region oi menu. j. "i". ";s convention in jwu. He was one ot the
to cross-examination, said that skin g;x survivors of that , convention, the
bruises might heal in a very few days others being Chief Justice Loveland Mun
and, again, might be discernible some j ; Df Manchester, Colonel Edward B.
weeks after an accident. Among the lum
pers who testified to the methods em
ployed by lumpers and their duties were
George Thompson and ifiiam s. smitn
da v. Mountain started to cross the tried s .th of E- Savoie anl otl,era
track back of the engineer not noticing
the signal to back, and the engine struck
him and then ran over him, the body be
ing dragged under the cow-catcher for
10 rods. The remains were taken to the
undertaking rooms of Powell 3l Living
ston. Mountain was 40 years of age and
lived in Farnham, P. Q. He is survived
by his wife and his parents, the latter
living in Calgary.
MRS. HATTIE E. COLBY
Widow of Henry H, Colby of Washington
Pied at Montpelier.
Mrs. Hattie E. Colby, widow of Henry
H. Colby of Washington, died of heart
disease early this morning at her home
in Montpelier. Mrs. Colby was the 11th
child in a family of 12 children born to
against A. J. Gauvreau.
Notices of action in several cases were
given as follows: E. D. Bartlett vs. Hin-
man Bros., counsel gave notice that case
S.-E. Perry, Grover Caven and James
Imlah also testified for the claimant. Ev
idence tending to disclose the condition
of the deceased immediately after the al
leged accident and in the days immedi-
telv preceding his death, was submit
ted by Mrs. Richard Halsall, Lillian Hal
sall and Charleg Halsall.
Dr. Tinkham was examined at length
bv the members of the board and bv the
attorneys. His testimony dealt exclus
ively with the technical aspects ot cer
tain diseases, pleurisy, empyema and tu
berculosis. Alexander Gordon of the firm
of Marr & Gordon also testified briefly.
WATERBURY MINISTER SPOKE.
On "The Spiritual Preparation of the
Ministers," Before Ministers' Club.-
"The Spiritual Preparation of the Min
ister," was the subject of an interesting
was settled on agreement that defend-1 paper prepared and read by Rev. W. L.
ants would pay plaintiff $130 within 14
days; Jones Bros. Co. vs. A. W. Graham,
discontinued; Anna Watson vs. John
Campbell, settled; in McDonald vs. Mc
Neil, 8. H. Jackson had withdrawn as
attorney for the defendant but the de
fendant made personal appearance and
announced that he was ready for the
trial; Seth C. Rich vs. George H. Cross,
a demurrer has been filed and a hearing
on this will be given later; Freeman R.
Hayden vs. Montpelier &,' ells River
railroad, the plaintiff made a motion to
file an additional count and permission
was given with the understanding that
the case would be continued.
When the civil docket was gone over,
the following entries were made: Ella M.
Bailev vs. Vermont Savings bank, dis-
unitsually heavy current was necessary i i1Rve oome from tne American side, com
to put him to death. The- first current mitted denredations on the Mexican side
consisted of 1.000 volts, which was main-1 an,i flpj back again to United States
tained for 10 seconds. territory. There is no such instance on
The current was then dropped to 200 rpPord ' recent vears. The note fol-
volts for 20 seconds and this was raised lows: "
again to 1.000 volts, which was main- tj, s. Note to Carranza.
pioneer families which settled in the im-
change of "views. It is clearly stated, mediate vicinity of Eajit Orange. For
nowever, that the bandits to be pursued many years after her mother's death she
on American soil by Mexican troops must I kept house for her father and after
wards married Henry II. Colby. They
Ransom and Annis (Eastman) Dickey of
East Orange, and was born at that place
Nov. 14, 1854. Both her father and continued; W. A. Bovce vs. E.A.Carey,
mother were descendants of the earlv settled and discontinued; Boutwell,
Milne 4. Varnum vs. John L. Burns, dis
to Peeure a hold upon a projecting piece gain to 200 volts, which after 21 see
of stone. He calh-d for help more than l onds was jumped to 1.900 volts, which
an hour before his cries were "heard by j was kept on for five seconds.
Samuel Guillow, a teamster and fellow Retkovitz wore a crucifix suspended
workman, who rescued him from his per- from his neck'by a steel chain. Wnen
"The government of the United, States
has received the courteous note of Senor
Acuna and has read with satisfaction his
suggestion for reciprocal privileges to the
American and Mexican authorities in the
pursuit and apprehension of outlaws who
Boicourt, pastor of the Waterbury Con
gregational church, at the regular month
ly meeting of the Ministers' Monday
club in the parlor of the Universalist
church yesterday. Owing to the unavoid
able absence of Rev. Mr. Boicourt in the
forenoon, the meeting was deferred un
til afternoon. Rev. Ivan II. Benedict of
Sawyer of Hyde Park, George H. Cran
dall of Berlin, Dr. George V. Miles of
Hinesburg and Salmon Green of Rich
mond. " Besides conducting his law business
Mr. Deavitt was interested in many af
fairs in Montpelier. He was one of tha
incorporators of the Capital Savings
Bank & Trust company back in 1S01
and had been its president ever since
that time. He was a director of the
Barre & Montpelier Traction & Power
company from 1808 until the Tenney
corporation took over the road in 1013.
In fraternal relations Mr. Deavitt joined
the Masons in Moretown, being a mem
ber of Mad River lodge, and he also was
a member of the Congregational church.
On Jan. 19, 1870, he married to Caro
line E. Harrington of South Royatston,
Mass., and she died on Jan. 17, 1915.
There are five children, as follows, Ed-
ward If. Deavitt, a Montpelier attorney
and a former state treasurer; Carrie h.
Deavitt, also of Montpelier; Henry of
Chicago, George T. Deavitt, of New York
City and William .1. Deavitt of El Paso,
Tex. He also leaves one brother, Daniel
P. Deavitt of Moretown, and four sisters,
Mrs. Eveline Ila-seltine and Mrs. Luke J.
Roberts of Waterbury and Mrs. Esther
S. Holmes and Mrs. Nellie N. Barrows of
Montpelier.
The arrangements for the funeral are
being held in aheyartro pending the re
ceipt of word from the son, William J.
Montpelier, president of the club, acted ,)eavjtt, in TeX8lJ lf hc ig a'ble to ,mf
s chairman, and uevouonais were icq
by Rev. John Irons of the Williainstown
Congregational church. Records of tho
previous meetings were read by the sec
retary, Rev. Frank Blomfield of Berlin.
Following Rev. Mr. Boicourt's compre
hensive consideration of the topic as
signed him, his paper was thoroughly dis
cussed, all of the clergy participating
in the open forum. An invitation to meet
in Waterbury for the April gathering
was considered and accepted. The next
meeting will be held on the forenoon of
April 10.
Clergymen present at yesterday's
meeting are as follows: Rev. I. II. Bene
dict, Rev. Lewis Carson and Rev. E. C
resided for a time in East Orange, later
for several years at Bradford, and later
on moved to Washington village, where
Mr. Colby died in 1908, since which time
she had made her home in Montpelier.
Besides her two daughters, Mrs. J. C.
Hodgkins of St. Johnsbury and Mrs.
Pearl Lanier, who lived with her in
MJontelier, she leaves three brothers,
Alanson E. Dickey of Bradgate, la Or-
samus W. Dickey of Lake Tahoe. Gal., i tinned : Orville Sherman vs. Mrs. Kath
and John E. Dickey of Barre Town, and erine Perrin, discontinued; Albert A. Sar-
continued; Charles F. Edson vs. Thomas
Abare, settled and discontinued; Roach
Bros. vs. O. H. Hale and trustee, discon
. Tr.hn r-inn.. ... tr n ir;
Limit:,, Ul'llll 1 , TO. Jl. A . ,,, , t 1 l I .
discontinued; Teck "Bros. Co. vs. W. E.j '""ff.. h oautal Rev John Irons
T ... . , ..,, , ' .i.j .t,i i'of W illiamstown. Rev. Mr. Boicourt and
t., j...4: j - Rev. Frank Blomfield. Rev. .1. B. Reardon,
O. and Sarah R. Lowe vs. J. E. Gillette,
discontinued; E. L. Smith A Co. vs.
Harry J. Smith and J. A. Long, discon
t'nned; F. C. Luce Co. vs. O. S. Searles.
discontinued.
Other rntrie made were: Mrs. .Cath
erine Perrin vs. Orville Sherman, diseon-
the funeral probably will be held on Sat
urday.
Uous position. He was almost exhausted, physicisns examined his body thev found jiIlfet their respective territories lying j three brothers-in-law, C. L. Currier of 'gent vs. A. J. Mclver ami W. S. Robbins,
who are a constant menace to the lives
and property of residents of that re
gion,
that the electric current had seared his
flesh with the imprint of the cross.
Retkovitz was twice eonvieted for the
murder of Domba Peremebida in Fall
Kiver on the morning ot March it, 1914. 1 . --The povernment of the I'nited Slates
, Circumtantial evidence plaved a large in vipw. ,f the nn,al statof affairs
Had Stuffed Corner of Pillow Into His j part in the conviction of Retkovitz. The viiich has existed for some time along
Month. (accused man was tried twice, the second ho in4rnntion hot.nd.irr nd ern.
Montgomery Center. March 14. The ; ,ri' having been granted on exceptions, i y desiring to ctoKrate with the de facto
and undoubtedly was on the point of los
ing his hold on the rock and being car
rh-d down the river.
DIED OF SUFFOCATION.
Rev. J. W. Harnett; Rev. James Ramago
and Rev. E. F. Newell of Barre.
LARGE PROPERTY DESTROYED.
Farrant Home Building at Newport Last
Evening.
Newport, March 14 The Farrant prop
erty on Farrant'!- point, about a mile from
- " - - - ' . . ".p. l , , i v y. uii'iixin - ' , . ... villi,;. ,ii - - - - - - - , - , . ,
along the international boundary and Rarre; C. W. Huntington of W ashington 'administrator, discontinued; United the village, was destroyed ny tire alx.ut
TO BOOM VERMONT SLATE.
Concern Incorporated to Conduct Pub
licity Campaign.
The Vermont Slate Manufacturers
PulJirity Bureau, Inc., organized by
slate manufacturers to advertise the ad
vantages of Vermont slate as roofing
material, has filed articles of association
with the secretary of state, without cap
ital stock. The principal place of bus
iness is at West l'awlet, although head
quarters will be established at Granville,
N. . The subscribers are M. t. Rob
erts of Rupert, Robert O. Owens of Gran
ville, N. V., and Harry D. Hick of Gran
ville. The president is Fred C. Sheldon
of Granville and the secretary and treas
urer Mr. Owens. There are seven trus
tees, including the subscriber and offi
cers named, and in addition Arthur H.
Morrow of West Tawlet, Eugene R, Nor
ton of Granville and C. A. Lowrv of
Cleveland, O.
MANY PHYSICIANS PRESENT
death of Abram Brunton occurred some
time in the night Saturday or early
Sunday morning at the home of Bert EI-
kin. Bninton did not get np to break-
, last, but atwut Id o clock .Mrs. Klkins
went to his room upstair and found him
dead in bed. Health OtWr Dr. R. 1).
Worden s called, accompanied by Con
table .!. W. Fountain. They fotm'd that
Brunt-n had filled his month with a cor
ner of the pillowcase ik tht death wa
rnKt4v due to suffocation, he being sub
let to fits. The ca rrrrt,I bv
Health Offi-rr W ordea to Dr. C. F. Ihiltn
When for a second time he was found vrrm.nt of Mexico to inmirni thin
guiltr of murder in the first degree,- Ret- tate of lawlessness, of which the recent
kovitz accepted his fate stoically, and j attack on Columbus, N. M., is a deplora
discoursred offer of intercession with'jje example and to insure peace and or
t he governor. J ,eT ;n the region contiguous to the
Mrs. Peremebida. a houmid with ! boundary between the two republics, read
whom Retknvit had been intimate, w!jly grants permi-si"n for military fore-
killed at the hue where she was em-jof the de facto government of Mexico
ployed. Hr thmst waa cut with a ror-'to cro the international boundary in
or. The Fall T:irr police learned that ' pursuit of lawta bands of armed men.
and D. R. Bradbury of Washington. Mr. I States Tire Co. vs Vermont Tire and " ' "." "
v vr rv.lhv 9lJ U.lilni.m iRnhrr (i.. defau it on the nsrt of ftp """
defendant and verdict for the plain
tiff.
Barre. is her mother-in-law, and Charles
Colby, who lives out on the ohj Colby
homestead in East Orange, is a half
brother of her late husband.
The funeral arrangement have not
yet been completed but the funeral will j In $200,000 Fire on Pier at Halifax, N. S,
RED CROSS SUPPLIES BURNED
probably be held in the church at East
Orange and the interment will be made
in the family lot at that place.
MANAGEMENT SURPRISED.
At Strike of 1500 Men in Buffalo, N. Y,
Mill.
To-day.
burned were the house occupied by Miss
Susan Farrant, two greenhouses, and two
barns. The loss is partially covered re
insurance,
To Watch Dr. F. B. Lund of Boston at
Operative Clinic
An operative clinic conducted by Dr.
F. B. Lund of the Boston City hospital
'was held at the Barre tity hospital to-
th
h
There was no water protection. Only a
Halifax, N. S.. March 1 4. A large' small part of the furniture was saved,
quantity of Red Cn supplies were ! The greenhouse contained many rare
burned in the destruction of pier 2 at, plants.
the steamship terminal to-day. The los j The property is owned by what i
is estimate,! at 2Vi. ' known a the Farrant e-tate. and U oc-
. ! copied by Su'an and John Farrant, the
Battery candidates for the Coddard ; brother"" bou-e. a few rl from t..e
tMseSsil 'team this coming se.,n w ere oi ler h-'i.-e b ing endangered by the fire.
'T'7 . . . . . rt f day under the auspice of the Washing-
The fire originated in the ell part of (.n
he house, its cause K-.ng "''n. , hen . - prenU1 ,ith,r
elp .mved the entire hm.se as a da.e tMminliUtn or for ' ration. ManT
Buffalo, N. Y.. March 14. Fifteen hun-
PfftLnvif hmA Iir.-1 mitH tk n nmm n !n m hs. V, m ..Ia,. MmvIa fn.m ! dred men fnmnrisinf? the nirht ahift nt mil Teterdavhv Coarh IliM.rnle
Pennsylvania, and that he had followed I nitt State, emmitted outrage onlthe Buffalo. pper and Bra Rollins and nut thr-wich a short r-rctwe in the ; Court h-ringa in the cav of State .
her to Fall River, and threatened and i Mexican soil, and fled into the United j mill, atruck lat n'ght. The dy hi!t;og. Several good men are out this I'et.r Hendri.
aulted her hen he refused t return j States on the underatanding that the de
oper
physicians of the county and surround
ing town were present and were inter
ested spectators of Dr. Lund's work as
he examined five perons and operated on
three others, ("dies and towns repre
sented at the clinic included Montpelier,
Marshtidd. N'rthfi,l. and Weterbnry,
while many Pxirre phyakiana were also
present.
kon and Andrew Kopeia. " v .
oi I ,' men workea imiu o clock. aeason and a irumrs kkk nw. tte ihct- , nn y,rm-,-- .-- ....--....., .
i I - . . (m.,nriK nn.-v vru 11 ci kuid di niv
at Burhnsrton and State' Attorney S. S. to him. A ramr. found er the lndv. fat government of Mexic grant the j The management of th mill aatd that ing staff should be an exceptionally g.wl charge rT" p' " ' ; Plana,
t uSipg of St. Aibana who, e the dor- aaid ti have been hi prorwrtv. Fri- reciprocal privilege that the military 'a compromise on the w( qoe-tion ione ti.i year. Davidm.n. Keefe. K.h-v tra'e H W. S.ytt f rx.av. are to lie I el I . v l t i n l
W rllnat.n. were 1 the opinion dence was given at tHe trial that tW j force, of the United S'at may pursue, was rea, bed U't wk and that the ard SHefsrd are among the an.n.lat. . Wedne-Uy m .fmt.g at 9 o . I .i. J. ar I j '"r, T , i" l 1 I' t. II
ih,t dth wa. due to natural man M rnl threatened "to crt Ver rrr. the internal i.-nal t-.tinlarv inf stril.e .-ame as a surprise. The men, it and there are three or four more that terv.r ! 1-en retimed i,y t.e r.fr ccitcI t " " l " ''l'nr' "'TT , '
t.-. funeral w ill mnhahlr he k. 1 1 Uv.1. .v I i. . P.iv,,.;.. ... t.,i. .rrlinrr h.lrw hand, of irinfl is said, demand an increase in varea are eir-erled to ehow me r-ol work mt ant trand MirT W iuta W ihart arrne !... k Irom lot wtf-l Imlaa lour
. 'H ... . 1 I.
ret4 ia Boatoe a week after the crime. u.ca ho Lave cntert d the United State aad an ei-ht hour day.
Udor the Ope-Bicg f the s-iwii.
wiil appear i--r the state.
t
