RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Attractive Homes for Sale or to Lei.
5cc T.-D. Want Pages
Sidimond Simts-SHspatdj
RIGHT HERE
iN RICHMOND
Every Metropolitan Advantage fur
Newcomers?See T.-D. IVants
60th YEAR
FURTHER TOLL IN
Another Peninsular and
Oriental Liner
Slink.
ALL ON THE GEELONG
REPORTED AS RESCUED
Three Europeans and Seven Chi
nese Lost When the Glen
gyle Goes Down.
NO AMKKHAN'S ON SUM'S
Squadron of .Japanese Warships Sails
to I'rotcri ThmJo Vessels
of That Nation.
' *' 11?!??? to Tlx- 'I'; in-s-I ? i?-1?:it? li J
I.ONTiON, January " The C-elong.
;t no* lor I'f-iiiij ular ;??? I oriental liner,
has been sunk in the Mediterranean.
Sin- was a steel ship of T'i'l tons,
praeticnllv tli" . i/> ;t - tl< Persia.
She was built for tin- 1:1 u ? Anchor
Kill" in 1'? ?!, .t ? i?I taken ovri liv the
IIm-tilar and '' t.'il ? "?>it:|?i???> for
t! A list i a 1 ;;i ii ??rvi' < Sh- waf seh?*d
ii I ?-?l t ? > erui" by *A a % ipf lli*- ?'a;i?' Mow
she li.i t? t >*??<??< I to !??? in the Mediter
ranean I *:?- ? ??' I > ? ? < i. explained All
Oil bo:- r < I we|. i.polled saved
("Jut 1 l:.ard of lo-da- inepjd??.
b-.'id-'i ili< IiiitiMiI;.r and oriental
boat. tli< fallow :t v
Th- ?; 1???: u ;? !? . own. .I by 11 < ?;!? u
l.ito . of 'ilastow, sunk ? n route from
Shaneha:
The Si ? ?. w. ? ! i? the I;r111-1? a ?? d
I'liiviti. St? iMi.-h.ii ' 'oui ;<:i n>. >>ut ??{
Alexandria
Th- Kankokn .Maru. owu-d lr the
linn < Jotnoi Ka i-l i Shipping 1 "o-ri|,-, ny,
or' w Mi a ' il'ii of 11<-ii11>. trom
Manila for pal;. .it K 1. ;?!
Tok \ ?? <i ? j.a i , a iiiioii lr ?? ?
iihm.' mad- I lli- t.ji Shunpo in ws
|)a I" : that . ro) . f iap.i- --<?
warships will sail for ;h> Su> z <*uii:il.
It - : .--timed *1 ? ?- iv fi.r th- pro
t.i-tiori nf Japan- hippfni.- as 11??
I * ? nil "f tin li - o| .! ? pa -owned
it th- M> 'I. I -1 ? a n-:i t The
i, o.rot it . v '! ' n'l i-i of th"
ari.ioi-'! < hi -r- Ka i .a. Tol.iw.i and
Cliilo; ?
JtK.I.i;sT MIMtt II VNTMIII'
I.OST s | n < I ; 1 || |.; Mt \ ||| (
1tli- l-.ss ? r-|>ort-"l to-ila;.. ill
ii ? 11 ? ?ast roil s. from a (Inaneta!
' 1 i> th- 'ilengyle Sin is til- i i: -
t ?!!??? ? ha: I VfSM'l lust shut th"
via' ?' ll-r ('liv.4-* iiMors a11<I < r-w.
??I ?: 1 1 -!'| I. u .lit .f. t;:-r ? iiOUT ! w ? 1 ?
Mivf-i!. With ??>..-option of three Kuro
|i-:; I ? il j ?? vi-ii " "hiti. T1 ? ir- '
vlvor* landed a i Malta
? Uli-iajs '?! 11." ? i_- -. 1 ? .? ? nouilCf<l
Hint th-r- wen: no \mi-i :i-ans ahoar.l
Th- i;i??nn>K> wiik a ship of
f."io>.- tonnage. ' ?" :? . t loim, " feft
1 I-am anil thirty-two f.-i t draft Sh
iva.-J hulH at N-wo.istI.- in 1014. and
as i.: h-r : ? in! i-rti is
SiiC loft Siiai i.'liai o'i ttllX'l' 'J '?
and SitiL'apor- on In- -mhor taUinur
Mi. -.it.al rout- t..r i.'il re
ports say sh- is l?- !i*-v?-?l to liavt- b-en
mi11it on Stiiulay iMoriiinc ht-t\v<t?.*n Port
Sai<i and Malta If this is v-rifi<:i|, it
? plac-s her a n stint: :.o.\ tint far from
v. !.-i- I lu- l'.-! sia li-s
It annotiii' -d tiiiii tho i il-imyb*.
Itls- tlir Persia, had nuns mount-.i on
l.i li-fk 'I'll- vi-M I carri-d a valu- 1
able caif-'o of I4,noo ions. The steamer'
was valued at fi'2'i.oon.
The Si Oswald was probably sunk in
tn- Kastern Medit-ri anean. Her niove
ini iits liar- not be? !i rojtorted since
? ti-tober 1on which date she arrived
at Mudros Island from Alexandria,
The St. 'isw.ild was built in ll'il.".,
1 She was "?;l feet long, and o.Slo Kross !
tonnage.
Tin Kankoku Maru was sunk last
W'-dnesiiay, the day before th- Persia
received her death thrust. Her crew (
is reported to have been saved.
,i v i* \ \ i.si-: ship si \ i\
it\ (.i:itM\\ st im.viti.vi-:
?'aides from Tokyo say the ship's
(.winrs liave been advised that she was
iW-stroyed by a i;. ri::an subnitirine !
l-'roin the fact that her crew is said to:
have been landed at Cannes, France, it;
inferred thai she was attacked in
the Western .Mediterranean. She wan
under charier to a foreign company,
and sailed from Manila on November
with hemp for Italy and Knglnnd. ,
She was a vessel of ", 10!) tons.
The Kenkokn Maru was the second
.lapancK ? ship to fall a victim to the'
marine warfare in the Mediterranean.:
The passenger liner Ynsaka Maru was j
torpedoefi off Port Said on Pecember 21.
It is predicted that the activity of
the warfare against shipping in the'
Mediterranean will cause a prohibitive
Increase of insurance rates for vessels
inking IJicanal ronto. Several ship- |
pinir lirius are expected to announce,
within t wenty-four hours that they i
will abandon the Suer? route for the1
resent
no sti:i? in t . s. i.\ < \si.
OP' TIIH YASAKA MAIII'j
WAS111 NCiTt.?N. .lanuary 3.?Secre- j
tary l.ansing intlieatod lo-dny that lhe|
' l.'nited Stales probably will take no j
f step in the case of the Japanese liner
Yasaka Maru, torpedoed in the Medi
terranean, because \V. .1. IjCigh, the I
only lost passenger who was supposed |
io have been an American, never estali-1
lislieil his American citiz* nsliip. I.eigh
uas born of American parents in China. |
The dispatch from t'onsul Carrels at;
Alexandria, made public by Secretary
1..Iusing, rend:
"Aflidavlts of otllcers. crew, passen
gers of the Yasaka Maru have been
'eeclved here. Will be forwarded by
i\ext mail The person who stated was
an American citizen aboard says:
???Was horn of American parentage
nnd elnli'i of American citizenship has
not been substantia tod. I Intend to do
bo arrival at Shanghai.'"
' ? . . 1 ? :
U. S. Must Be Prepared
to Resist Any Attack
on Mo nroe Doctrine
Possibility of Alliance of
Foreign Powers Consider- j
ed in Framing De
fense Plans.
TEN YEARS IS TIME LIMIT
Strategists Want Army and Navy ,
Strong Enough to light for ?
Pan-American
Idea.
WASHINGTON, January 3 ??Possibil
ity >>f a combined attack l>y foreign
powers t?? break flown tin- in: v.- Pan
American doctrine evolved from tnain
ttnani'i' by the United States and ac
ceptance l>v South anfl Central Ameri
? .i!i republics of the .Monroe Doctrine
is on?'' of the funflamental bases for the
nat if.nal-defense plans formulated by;
army ami navy strategists. They be
liev? it essential In the formulation of
a national military policy, it was
learned to-night, to provide against
tho eventuality of an assault upon the
doctrine !>y either at. Asiatic or a Ku
rfipean power, .ir oven hy an alliance
of two su-'h powiTf, which might hurl
powerful f'lrcej. .simultaneously at the
Atlantic and Pacific Coast*.
A : a\y equnl in strength to those of
rsy two v.-irld powers, except Great
Britain, and an army prepared to f'.Kht
f>?!- the integrity of the Pan-American
i? 1 <-;? anywhere In Pan-America is the
tiltimate aim ??f the plans of the mili
tary experts.
T.M! years ;? the time the Navy Gen
et..! Hoard believes the United States
lias in which t-< prepare for readjust
?r.et.r oi world forces which will follow
the Kuropean war. In setting 1I<'J*> as
the time when the Pnlted States Navy
should ei|ua! any afloat?which menn*
reaching the two-power standard of
the British navy-?the board estimated
*hat much time would ?elapse before
the shock of the present war passed
sufficiently to permit any of the bellig
erents to look to South or Central
America for colonial development or
t rtide a trie: ession.
Ml ST III-: lli:.\IJ\ TO I, \ Ml l-'Oltl KS
in ?nv Tiiiti:aii:\i:i> coi nthy
Plan? of the Army War College
would be consummated in six years.
The army officers take the position that
the United States must have sufficient
troops and troop ships to land forces
m any threatened Pan-American coun
try t<> meet an invader.
?Ml these preparations, it is now
known, have been presented by strat-,
en sts to the administration as essen
tial to the support of the Monroe Doc
trine. so that the Pnited States tnav
be able to act alone, if necessary, t?.
preserve its ideal of no entangling
alliances. Such ideals, the military
students have stated, impose new,
duties upon the I'nited States?duties'
that require something more than ai
policy of mere passive resistance.
While the administrative board has
submitted to Congress a definite plan
which contemplates an increased ex
penditure of more than $1,000,00.1,000
on military and naval establishments 1
lit the next six years, all other agencies
of the government are acting to unify
and harmonize r?an-Amerieun tuitions.
Students of diplomacy, the Pan-Atneri
can declarations of President Wilson in
his opening address to Congress, the
declarations fcr Pan-American unity
made to the Pan-American Scientific!
Congress here by Secretary Lansing
and the general effort for unity of till
the Americas on a basis of friendship
and equality take on added significance
when considered in connection with the
administration's preparedness plans.
A II C AMIIASSAIIOIIS TO
HKPItKSKNT TICK I'MTK.n STATUS
The recent announcement that the
ambassadors from Argentina. Brazil
and Chile had been selected by the
I'nited States to represent it on the
commissions provided by the peace in
vestigation treaties with France, Great
Britain and Italy, Is regarded as one
of the significant factors in this con
nection.
Significance also is seen in the dis
closure that an effort to postpone the
Pan-American Congress on the ground
that sufficient time had .not been given '
to prepare an adequate scientific pro
gram. was met by the statement that '
the United States was insistently de
sirous of taking prompt steps to fur- ;
ther the spirit of Pan-American ac? :
cord, confidence, sympathy and tnu- j
tnality. South American capitals uni- J
formly report that the congress is re- !
garded there as more political than j
scientific, and that approbation of the)
sentiment of Pan-American unity is
freely expressed.
What confidential information the
Army War College and the navy gen
eral board may have gathered concern
ing the intentions of any certain power
or powers is not being revealed; hut
there are certain matters of general i
knowledge, which are known to have, j
entered into (he study of possibilities I
upon which the theory of a two-power '
attack upon the .Monroe Doctrine was
based.
With the military problem agre&l
upon and defined, the two hoards of
strategists were asked what. In their
opinion, would constitute adequate na
tional defense. Their answer was to
build a two-power navy ami organize
a Federal army of sufficient size so
that a portion of It could bo used In
any southern country against a foreign
(Continued on Second Page.)
tSg?!?
Copyright by Olinedinst. Washington.
1 >. from Underwood rndcrwood.
ItOHKItT McNKKI.V
American consul who went down
with the I't-rsiu.
WICSMSEK CALLED"
Withdrawn From Sorbin in I .em I
llnrd-l'ressed Troops on Itres
sarnhinn Front.
VI FXX A SAVS 1.1 XFS ilOUHXC
Utissian Attacks Doing Made by Fn
tire Divisions in Dense Forma
tions, and So Far Deported as
Having Advanced ('niisidoiably.
!Special <'able to The Tim?*n-I ?ispatch. J
l.OXDOX. January 15.? ??"ir? 1.1 Marshal
von Mackenst-n has been hastily with
drawn from Serbia to taki> command
of the hard ?pressed Austrians on the
ltessar.ildan fiont, according to .1 Pe
trograd dispatch to the Times
So far as the Vienna War Oflice of
ficially reports, the Austrian line* are
holding, despite tie re. e attacks l>v ? reat
tnasses of Russians.
The Russian offensive is centered in
the Tnporoiitz ilistriot.
General Inavoff Is reported to have
more than l,r>00,(?0i men at his corn
mand, together with vast supplies of
Jfeavy Kims and ammunition received
from t lie United States. Kim land and
Japan. The Russian attacks are being
made hy entire divisions in dense
forma t ion
Including several ilernian divisions
withdrawn from the llaikans to meet
the now Russian drive, the Teutons are
reported in Petrograd advices to have
between 1.000.000 and 1,aOO.OOO men on
the 30}.mile front between the l'ripet
and the Roumanian frontier.
PHKSKNT (illi:\-r tlATTI.K HKSIIT
<?!-' TWO tlllVKS WHICH CI.AS1I
The present ureal battle is said to
have been the result of two offensive
movements which clashed. The Rus
sians for weeks had been preparing for
an offensive in I'.essarabia and Eastern.'
Oalicia. ami concentrated a great army;
and vast stores of ammunition on a
comparatively short front, it was their!
desisrn to threaten the llalkan opera-i
tions of the Austro-German forces i>y :
a well-timed smash at the front in
Western Russia and Eastern Calicia.
Meantime, the Austrians and Her
mans. feeling- the necessity of straight
ening and re-enforcing their lines
against a possible Russian offensive,
opened an offensive. The two move
ments collided, and Use present tre-i
mendous struggle is the result. All
advices reaching here show that ihe
Russians so far have made some con-'
slderable advances, especially in Die'
Strvpa River district.
ANTON LANG NOT AT FRONT I
Wife or < elelirnteil Chrlstns In Passion
Play nt Oliernmmrrgnii Writes Thai
Htioliniul In nt Home mill Well.
[Special Gable to The Times-I'tispateh. i
T.OXDO.V, .lanuary U.?Frau I.a up.
wife of Anton Rani;, the ("hristus of
the Passion play at Oberammergaii.;
writes through a neetial country tl at
her hushand, who several limes has
been reporter killed in the lighting in
France, is <vtvlI anil at home.
He has been trained for hospital
work, hut has not yet been called to
the colors.
DECLINE 5 PER CENT RAISE
U nion Cotton Mill Operative* Through
out \etv Knglnnil Will Demand I
s H> Per tent Increase.
NASHUA. X. 11., January IS.?Union'
cotton mill operatives throughout Xowj
England will not accept the per eenl|
wage klncrea.se which many manufac-J
turersl announced would go inlo effect,
to-day, according to a statement made
here to-day hy John Golden, of Kali
River, president of the United Textile
Workers. Union operatives, GokUn
said, have for some time been consider
ing a demand for a 10 per cent In
crease.
Health and School Authorities
Combine to Combat
Disease.
PHYSICIANS ARE ALARMED
Reports From All Sections Show
Wide Prevalence of Influen
za and Pneumonia.
Health MHIcm- |.,vv
lieu It h Depat tiiM'iit, a ml Assistant Su
perintendent Mil!, of th. |lllMle St.,10ll|S
have, in view ,,f tlir.-ai.epidemic
"f H'ippe ami pneumonia. m;,de ar
rangements foi a *erle.s of popnla. b-c
lures to the school children ?? thc
, ??'? dis. ani>s ami on
ill" preventive me-.surcs thai every *| .j
son sheuld ?ak, if ttoul(, avoid th- m"
Ai ilri s^.j w,? be |||(|S| ((f
. liir?cr *<hools ?,y physicians of M.e
Mat.- a,.,1 , -jt> Health I >epartme?ts a,?l
n siddlt ion, there will l,c distributed to
the pupils a bulletin containing a su n
mary of ii,-. l.evy'.s report on simple
pre.-aut.lc.nM that every p,,??? can i,k,
without expense, to prevent the spread
? tin grippe aici pneumonia infer.
t ion.
As grippe is- not a reportable disease -
that is to say. physicians are not re.
quired l.v law or ordinance to report
su. h infection the fitv Health De
partment h;.- ,,o means of knowing to
what extent the diseases are now prev.a
1 ''??ehnioiHl. In Northern cities,
however. .-cording to published re
pot ts. crippe and pneumonia are assum
ing- epidemic proportions, and it i-j
the belief of the local Health Depart
??""t that Kiehmoml cannot hope to
escape being a filleted by the grippe
"av" unless the people here take
the absolutely necessary precautionarv
measures.
rii l snu vs iti:i>oit r
I.AItliK x t MIIHit OH cashs
Physicians engaged in private ?rae
ti< e have informally reported a large
number of grippe cases, and in the
<>l.:ce of one nose and throat specialist
yesterday nearly twenty people were
in the reception hall all day, waiting
to be examined for ailments, manv
"f which indicated preliminary gripn'c
symptoms.
Because the indications ure threaten
In^ the Health Department has decided
"pon a safety-first policy, and It has
t.'eri determined, as one of the lirst
measures. to enlist the aid of the school
authorities in spreading information as
to the diingtr of grippe and pneumonia
and as to what steps should he taken
to prevent continuance of the contagion
i ,v>" h?"gan yesterday work on the
bulletin, which will |,e distributed
among the schools, with the especial
request that they he taken home bv
t 1M>I?I1k and displayed for their par',
ents' information.
Superintendent .1. A. ,Chan,Her. of
til- public schools, is detained at home
hy ,lin..ss, but the idea was heart.lv
n'nrOV~!; "y Assi?ta,lt Superintendent
1 h" lectures will l,e delivered
probably by Dr. Dev.v and Medical In
spector Summers, of the City Health De
partment; b> Dr. T. .V. Knnett. of the
school medical staff, and his two assis
tants. and by physicians from the State
Health I ?-?.-part merit,
HOST M-:itlOI > CI'IDIOMIt
OH KIM) KVMit kxow.V
WASHI.ViiTViX. January 3.-?Influenza'
Is spreading over the United States!
from coast to coast in the most se
rious epidemic of its kind ever known
taking a large toll in lives and causing
economic loss by incapacitating workers
in all walks of life
Reports from Public Health Service
officers made public to-night hy Sur
geon-C.eneral Blue show that already
the disease has created r grave prob
lem for many of the larger cities, and
is spreading to the rural communities
New York. Chicago. Philadelphia.
Boston, San Francisco, Seattle. Cleve
land and Detroit reported the dlscise
wi.ii ly prevalent Cleveland and De-i
troit each has probably 10.),00) cases
Of the larger cities. Buffalo. Pittsburgh
Baltimore. San Diego. Dallas and .Vo
bile reported no signs of an epidemi
si m;i:oK\i-:u\i,
< vi.i.s i-'oit itHPoitis
I'iieic i* practically nothing the
Federal government can do toward aid
ing in suppression of the epidemic It
must be dealt with by local authorities,
and they, in turn, it is alleged, were
almost helpless without co-operation
from tli" public. Surgeon-General Woe
said to-night he had called for reports
Irom all parts of the country, with the
hope that puhlicit v would tend to
stimulate this co-operation.
Some of the reports were suiiima s i/.ed
l?y Surg eon-< ieneral Blue as follows
New Orleans Influenza prevalent.
Pneumonia not increased.
Wilmington. X. c. ? About eighty
cases, mild form.
New York Disease widely spread.
Marked increase in pneumonia mot--'
tali ly,
i hicago ? l.ast week there were rtfty-j
seven deaths from influenza; thi-ty
deaths the week before. There were
1.440 cases of pneumonia in December.i
with ?!rti; deaths, of which I'Ol occurred,
in the last four day;..
San Francisco?Kpldc.nic of inilu- 1
enz.a widely spread.
Memphis Kstimated T.uoo or S.00Q!
cases, but outbreak declining rapidly.,
OHIO river'is falling
ltniigcr of Flood Piinncn, According to j
Report of I'lttNbiirgh Weather
Ilurru'ii.
I'lTTSIIUIUill, Janunry :i.-?The Ohio I
River Is falling here to-night, and
danger of a Hood has passed, according
to thc local Weather Bureau. The
river reached a stage of L'0.7 foet at
noon, and, after remaining stationary
for several hours, began roocding.
'Sbi,
WILSON HURRYING
BACK TO CAPITAL
Uneasiness Prevails Over Acute Situation
Between U. S. and Some of Belligerents
ON tin* cio of llie roeoinciiIiik of
t'onnri'ss niit'iinllli'Ms prevail*
iiiikmik Sriialiiri mill Hepresi'iilii
liVCN llj rt'llsntl Of till' llflltl' kIIiiii
iIiiii Hint I'llslt lirtnrrn this emiii
tr? mill miiiir i>r tin* Ktimpeaii l?el
Ilitrrriiln.
I'reKiile nt \\ INiiii Iiiin i"iif short
IiIn lioilej iikiiiii lri|i In \ ir|;luiii, In
nriler to lie In |> IC ii I n li I'll I In*
leuiMlntors Im'kIii til lilari' rt'MOlu
11 ii it m lielnre llielr ri'H|iri'll\r house*
w i I li ri'uiiril to tille^i'il liifrlinjeiiieiitH
of V merietni rights.
I lose Inquiries lire to In- innile
Into the Milking of tin* British
Mleiimer I'ernlii. nlth thr Iiini of nt
least oni' \ liirrienii life, before
ni'llmi Is tnken In this mntter 1> v
tin- A mi-rli'iin Kovcriiinrnl, trlili'li Is
represented l>y Washington ? 11m
|ititi*lies iim helms ileter mlneil to tnkr
miy step warrant eil Ii; tin- fact*
Cill'lf I'll.
?Ilio Vustrlmi rlinrui' li'alYnirrs ill
\\ ashillKtoil Iiiin nskfil (lie WttshiliK
ton authorities to tilthholil their
jinlli in i* ii t until no ?'\|i I ii mi t ion of
tin- slnkliiK of till' Persia In fortli
i oinIii^, mill Is sniil to Iiiivi* Kit en
nssnrmief s tluit if mi ViiMtrinn siili
ni ti rim- mil tit I'll nl( tin* Austro
ItiiiiKiirlan K?t\eminent ttmilil inuke
Will I'll lis.
II Im expei'teil Hint the submarine
wnrfnri- of Herman? u ml \n.strln
mill I > ri'ii t Britain's in tt'rfi*ri'iii'i*
with iii'titrnl emit lit er ft ? III lie the
? nlijri'ls of pnrtlf lilnrl; in ti'ri'st I lie
ileliutes In t onuress, anil also Ilia I
lilt* i|iu*stloii of nnllonill |iri'pn mi
ni's s will early lie l:iki*n up.
St'itTiil more Milliliters Imif hem
Klltik l?y suhiuiirlue* In thr Meili
ivrrniii'iiti Sen, lint tvlileh nntlun in
-e sponsible l.s not jft known. 'I'he
l.omlon 'limes report* Hint the llrlt
ImIi Ktininrr (?eelnnur. of the IVtiSn
Milnr nml (Irlenliil l.lne, l.s tlie latest
viftlni.
(iencral Feeling of I'nensiness Over
<?nivi(y of Foreign A (lairs
at Present Moment.
STONK (OM-KHS WITH LANSING
Ketinning Members Talk of Little
lint <'onseqiienees That Might l{e
suit From Sinking of the Persia,
\\ itli Loss of American Lives.
WASIIIXOTO.V. January 3.?f'oiicichs
reassembles to-morrow in the midst
of an international situation, which
rival political leader* admitted to- ;
night was one of the most critical that
has confronted the nation. Keturning
members talked of little but conxe
f|U"tiees th.it might restilt from the
sinking ot the rtritish steamer Persia
in the Mediterranean with loss of 1
American lives, and the strained diplo- '
matie relations between the United
States and Austria.
Although administration leaders
were uniformly inclined to proceed
cautiously, and to await positive in
formation. there was a general feeling
of uneasiness among Senators and Itep
resentatives over the gravity of foreign
affairs.
Senator Stone, chairman of the Ken- !
ate Foreign delations Committee, con
ferred with Secretary Lansiim at the
State Department, and will seek a con
ference with President Wilson before '
a meeting of the committee is held on
Wednesday to begin consideration of
matters pertaining to the diplomatic'
affairs of the nation. It seems assured i
that the committee will take up the i
I resolution submitted by Senator Hoke
Smith, railing for an Inquiry into
I llri tain's interferences with neutral1
commerce, and the amendment by Sena
tor Lodge to investigate destruction
of the Lusita nia am) other acts by'
belligerents resulting in desti tu tion of I
American lives.
si:i:'s .\o oitjict i io\
to ioiTiir.it or mi: \st iu-.s
"'Of course, we must consider those <
resolutions," said Senator Stone lo- !
niRht. "They are on the calendar, and
must be disposed of. I ,|o not know
the sentiment of the committee, but I
see no objection to Congress having
all information called for in the resolu
tion of Senator Smith or the amend
ment by Senator Lodge.
"I talked.to Secretary Lansing about
the sinking of the I'ersla. but we ran '
do nothing with that until we get all
the facts."
Senator Stone also discussed with
Mr. Ionising (lie loug-pemling N'icara- i
guan and Colombian treaties, concern, i
ing which there still is persistent op
position by some Senators, including I
Kepubliea n members of the Foreign
Relations Committee. Tbc Missouri
Senator wants these treaties disposed
of one way or another, if it .,j,_ j
parent that opposition is overwliehn- 1
lag, it is proposed to discover this as
soon as possible, so that further time
May not be wasted in at'empttng to!
force their ratification. Another sub
ject of discussion was the nomination
of Henry 1'. Fletcher to | ,. ambassador
to Mexico. Senator llorah. a member
Of the committee, will strenuously
pose Mr. Fletcher's continuation, on the
ground that no ambassador to Mexico
should be named by the (Tinted States
until conditions in tin- southern re
public are more settled.
ACTIVITY AT ONt'M OVKIt
x Atio V \ I, I'lt ioi* a it 1: 1> \ I :ss
Although foreign affairs overshadow
everything else in interest for the mo
ment. activity over national prepared
ness will begin at once. Hearings will
he held to-morrow before the House
Naval Affairs Committee on the annual ?
appropriation bill, the first subject to
be taken up being that of yards and
docks, Including the project for a big J
dry dock at Norfolk. Va. The Senate
Naval Committee will meet to consider I
Senator Tillman's bill for erection of !
a government armor plate factory. <>u
Thursday the House Committee on
Military Affairs will meet, and Secre- '
lary Garrison will appear to explain his '
plan for reorganization of the army.
Other legislation ready for considera
tion includes the water-power and min
eral land leaning bills and the farm
loan bank hill.
?TIOll SURVIVORS OF
PERSIA 111 IT MALTA
Kleven More Saved, Hringing Total
So |?'ar as Known l'p
to I CIO.
VltOIIAIILY AIIOI'T ?tOO LOST
Apparently \o (.'round for Hope
That I*. S. Consul Mc.Vccly Ks
raped?Owners of Steamer Admit
That Vessel Was Armed.
I Special <\.i le to The Times-1 Hspatrh.]
LONDON. January It,?The stoam.ship
1'crsia was armed. Her owners, the
Peninsular and Oriental Steam Naviga
tion Company, admitted this to-day.
Kleven additional survivors have
been reported. This little hand landed
at Malta. It included Lord Montagu,
of Heaulieu. and three other passen
gers, and seven Lascnrs, ol the ship's
company.
There Is a possibility that others es
caped. In addition to the four boats
whose occupants were picked up by
a mine sweeper and taken to Alex
andria. another litehoat was seen south
of the scene of the wreck. With Rood
luck, it should have landed on the
north coast of Africa.
None of the survivors saw a sub
marine before the explosion. The only
testimony to support the theory that
the Persia was torpedoed is that of a
ships otlieer, who says he saw a ripple.
One hundred hours after the wreck
details are unsatisfactory and frag
mentary. Kven the loss of I i ft, re
mains doubtful. The passenger list
numbered more than -f>0. The crew
was between 200 and ::0o. Th? eleven
survivors landed at Malta bring tin;
total of saved to I?I
It would appear, therefore, that a ho tit
300 were lost. It ma> be several days
before the exact figures are obtained.
i.itti.k (iitot mi I'ott lion-;
TIIAT MeNKKl,V lOSCAI'IOl)
I here appears no longer to be ground
toj hope that I tiitftl States Consul
Hubert X. McNeelv escaped. Kour iia\s
of silence are accepted as establishing
his loss beyond i|iiestion.
A dispatch from Cairo says Hint the
suite of the Maharajah IvapatJiala were
among the Persia's passengers. They
were being awaited by the Indian
prince at Port Said. They had in their
charge his Jewelry, which undoubtedly
has been lost
Cairo also reports that the explosion
which destroyed the Persia occurred
amidships. The engines blew up and
the funnels were thrown to the deck.
Many deck boats were broken before
an attempt could be made to launch
them. Most of the passengers. were at
their lurieheon. They hurried without
panic to their cabins for life belts.
The list to port whirh followed the
explosion made it ditlicult to launch
boats.
H 1111 the llooring between decks at
a constantly increasing angle, it is
likely many of the passengers and
crew were unable to reach deck, and
went down with the ship. This may
account for the fact that only seven
teen women out of ninety aboard were
saved, and only two children out of
t hi rt>.
The Cairo dispatches assert that the
Persia turned turtle before disap
pearing.
TO CONTINUE BAN ON VODKA
HiimmIii ii <;ov eminent Intend* to Pro
mote Cause of Sobriety \fter
11 rat ora I Ion of 1'enee.
(Special Cable to The Times*Dispatch |
PHTUOti HA D, Jantiarv ;{. ltussia's
renunciation of vodka is to be main
tained after the war.
Heplylng to the exhortations of sev
eral 'members of the budget committee
of the Duma, Finance Minister It.irk
declared that the government intends
promoting sobriety after the restora
tion of peace, and that a return to the
former -state of things would be im
possible.
He added that a bill to restrain
drinking had been favorably considered
by the Council of Ministers, and that
the absolute prohibition of vodka
would be in accord with .the wishes of
the hIAhest authorities.
10 TAKE PERSONAL
CHARGE OF CRISIS
Regarded ns Most Serious
Since Beginning of Sub
marine Operations.
EXPECTED TO LAY FACTS
BEFORE CABINET TO-DAY
Subject Probably Also Will Find
Way to Floor of House
and Senate.
TKVIXO TO IlKKI* OPK.N MINI)
j United States Determined to Tnke
i Any Action That l-'arls May
Ivstnhlisli.
WASHINGTON. .Ianuar\ I' r ^?
dent Wilson started to Washington
from Hot Springs. Va.. to-iucht to take
personal charge of the nation's foreign
affairs in tin* new crisis brouuht about
I'V the sinking of the Kritisli steamship
Persia, with a loss of at least one
American life. Tim situation is re
garded in oflicial circles as being the
most serious to confront this govern
ment since the submarine operations
of the central powers began.
The President probably will lay the
facts thus fat* established before his
Cabinet to-morrow. The destruction of
the Persia, following closely upon the
crisis precipitated by the Ancona dls
aster, may result in the United States
determining to settle imrne liately all
the questions involved in the submarine
wart are. The subject is expected to
And its way t?? the floor of the House
and Senate to-morrow, when Congress
( reconvenes after the holiday.
President Wilson deci led to cut short
his honeymoon and return to the capi
tal at once after telephone conferences
with Secretary l.an.sing and Air.
Tumulty, his private secretary.
It was found,, however, that he could
not conveniently start until S:ir. o'clock
to-night. lie should arrive at 7 o'clock
' to-morrow morning.
I he United States is represented to
night as being prepared and deter
, mined to take any action that the facts
concerning the Persia, yet to be estah
| lislied, may warrant. Otticials still are
trying to view the situation with an
open mind, but it is apparent that they
are disturbed by the reports received
from consular agents at Alexandria and
Cairo, Kgypt.
Wit.I. T.tliK .NO VI'I'.l'S
t NTH. AM. I'Wt'TS V It K K.VUW.V
Kvcry effort will he made to estab
lish the truth of the report that the
j Persia was torpedoed without warning.
Secretary l.ansing contemplates taking
no step until the complete details are
known. <
Oilicials tlml one source of uratitica
i lion in assurances given by Huron
I'.rich Awiedinek, charge of the Austro
ilungariau embassy, to Secretary Lans
ing. during a conference to-day at the
State department. Karon Zwiedinok is
saiil to have suggested that Judgment
? be withheld until the facts were known,
and to have expressed the belief that
i the final explanation of the latest in?
| cident would be satisfactory. JTe is
said to have assured the secretary of
his belief that if an Austrian sub
marine commander violated the prin
ciples of international law and the
rules ot humanity, his government
would be quick to take action which
would fully satisfy the United States.
Karon /iwiedinek also sought informa
tion lor the benefit of his government.
Secretary l.nnsmg to-day instructed
Ambassador Penfleld, at Vienna, to
make inquiries which might lead to
the establishment of the identity of
the submarine which sank the Persia
or the receipt of information concern
ing the circumstances of the attack.
Ii was understood that Indications
received icoin an undisclosed source
were that no submarine* of other than
? Austrian nationality were known to
be operating near the point where the
Persia went down. No specitlc instruc
tions were given to Ambassador Pen
field. oilicials here are not definitely
convinced that a submarine was respon
sible for lite sinking of the Persia, and
still see a remote possibility that the
vessel might have struck a Moating
mine which had drifted to that part
of the sea from some adjacent field of
. operations
| POSITION IN It I'M. V It I)
TO ,%HMKI> molten A NTMKN
The report that the liner was carry
ing a I 7 served to revive discussion
of the position taken by the Knix^f;
.States in regard to nrmcd .it
men. In the early dayswar it
was announced that inerWiant ships be
longing to belligerents might be al
lowed to enter and leave American
waters with guns <>f six-inch caliber
or less mounted upon their sterns. At
ithat time cruisers of the centra! powers
had not been swept from the seus.
Later Ureal Kritaiti and Prance, at the
suggestion of the l.'nited States, agreed
that their ships coming into American
waters should not be armed, tntis
eliminating the possibility of a con
trovers* over that point so far as ves
sels plying out of ports of the United
i States were concerned.
Since then all craft of the Teutonic
allies, with the exception of subma
rines. have disappeared from the high
seas. Consequently, it is asserted
| in some quarters that merchantmen
