HOPE FOR BLINDED SOLDIERS.
Noble work for France's unfortunate he
roes being directed by an American
woman. Read the story
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER
Fair to-day, dimin
and
warmer to
Highest temperature yes
f lowest, 30.
Detailed weather, mall and
on pugo 19.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 126.
H-f
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1916. Copyright, 191, by the Sun Printing and PubtltMng Atioclatton.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
WOOD RESIGNS
TO GOVERNOR
FROMP. S. G.
"Wli it man Accepts Kosignu
t inn. Wliicli tines Into
Effect at Once.
SKKS I'SKFl'LXKSS
OX BOAIH) AT AX EX1)
Commissioner's Action
Thought to Mean Finish
of Thompson Inquiry.
Autlichtk! niforniiitlon was le.elved In
New Yotk lat night tint Public Service ,
Commissioner Hubert Colgate Wood had .
1
rerlgncl to Gov. Whitman, and that 1
the latter lin.l accepted his resignation,
which takes effect immediately
The resignation was taken to th!
Governor lute last cvcjilng by Com
ni'esloncr Wood's secretin;'.
Commissioner Wood's secretary lelt
New York last night on a '5 o'clock
tialn and when he arrived in Albany,
according In wonl received, he went at
once to Lie executive Mansion and hid
n Interview with tlov. Whitman. A
friend of Commissioner Wood's In thai
ii y learned by telephone later that the
secretary a id nttrentcil the Conimi..- i
Monet r. i.gnatlon
and that
It had 1
been accepted.
;i!:ln III lellnns.
It is understood that the resignation j Congregational ministers to-day.
An eonvecd to the Governor In a. "I).iys nre educated under the direction
letter written by the Commissioner. It of a female teacher, whereas they should
t.i a loin; communication explanatory be placed under the charge of a male
of his actions on the commission and trncher." he said. "(.Hi Is should be
urlna the Governor that the recent taught by women and not by men.
(barges which li.iu' been made against -yml wll tlnd the schuils of .New
lmii at the Thump-on committee's hear- yott too much feminized. The same
lugs lime no force. thing Is happening to the schools of
only the .1st uf Commlimloiier Wood's 0,on nnfl throughout the country,
leitet uiuld be leal ned here, but It Is woman does not understand a boy.
known the Co:miuIoncr tuld the (Jov- The michology if the boy's nature can
trnor that becaue of the fact that the not be grasped by the woman teacher,
tomnilttee had attacked him In such u and In precisely the same way the girl
iiianin i he lellceil his usetulness as a must not come under the teachings of a
member of tne commission was at an 1 man."
unl. Theiefinc he considered it better
to rii n.
ilm Whll man. when he read the reslg
r.i'iiin lett.-', wrote a courteous reply
to I'mnmlsslciier Wood in which h ac
ceju il the resignation, to take effect
ut mm.. The CoNcrnor tutrd In his
tisiionai that lie appreciated tho Com-
n-?s:on r motle whlcl( prornjited
l. i. to resign, ami agrecu wuu
t,Ht in teninnatlnB his connection with,
the .oii.mlsMon he had followed the
i, i r rnume
H:n Unit Tlnimiiaoii's WiirU,
..... , ., ,
I' be.ieved that the resignation of
v " I . . , .7 ',
to .rl. of the Thompson Invtlgntlng
tee With McCi.ll. Williams and
V. .V
I'M
C .
"
term eplre February 1
' ' iiiinlsiioiu r Wood received his ap
poiniiueiit from (lov lilynn on May 19,
"'II. to succeed John K. Ktistls and In
place of i .corgi; M. S. Schulz of The
It on., who ilecllued the Job. Wood had
i ii cupport of the Tammany organiza
tion In Tlie llronx. Commissioner Wood's;
ti. .on lii rogard to (ertain slKiial con
t.a. ts In the dual subway system was
..I. .e in ine ..ui.i suowMj rjeieiu wua
. . . . . '
tia
... -ut.ject or innuiry or the Thompson
committee.
omiulttee. He also had an unpleasant
tin... of II when the ioll.t leL-lslallve Mm.1""" Ausirm lu-.i.., ......nvrr. ..,e,r ..sun-
' ....
S. 'rl'f1.!.?1..,'.!:6 ,,Ub"C S,'rVlCe
Co'iindsslon a star ago.
Commissioner Wood Is 4 years old
snd before his appointment was a
banker with offices nt 43 Kxchange
I i.iee His home Is In Illverdnle. The
llronx.
PRIDE DENIALS MADE.
Thompson 'itntiillt4- Cluestlona
lln.l nf SIkiiiiI CmtiiHii.
William II. Wlllcox, who used to be
chairman of the Public Service Commis
sion, was permitted to ask uuestlons .
yesterday of W. W. Salmon, rjresldent "t
tlie General Hallway Signal Company, 1
tviio was iieinre the Tnnmpson leg'.sla
t.ve cmmlttee. He asked Just four
of them, bringing to the fiont tlie ery
th.iifjs that tlie committee had been try
ing to get at all afternoon, but which
no one seemed to think he ought to auk
of Mr. Salmon.
Mi. Wlllcox. who appeared a-s counsel
for tlie General Hallway Signal Com
p.inv. simply asked Mr Salmon If he
hit off' red a bribe, eter promised one,
wr ..uHiorlzeil an one to bilbo a Pub.
1. Service Comm.sslonei, and whether
lie was ever i-oll.iteil lor a bribe by
ii Piibiir Service i 'onimlssiiiiier or anj
one representing any of the rapid transl't
lines In Greater New York. Mr. Salmon
returned a negative to each of the ijudh
foil Senator Thompson said yesteiday that
he would hate i 'nmmlKHK.ner Wood on
ti.e stand again this morning, but Mr.
W ssl's resignation Is likely to cause a
c .I'.gc In this plan.
l.Miiun 1-3 I lodge, a patmt attorney
f.c Hie General compaii, Insisted that
'if be lleard by 111" eoilltlllttee He re
lated, so far as lie knew, all about tho
' I. Ing nf i peed control devices by
ie General . iniaiiy Mr Dodge said
i lompitiy never bad done anthlng
ti'..t wasn't tust r'ght .
'Ill" . oii'inlltee ii.i Into Its record a
.i e..i deal of testlniouy respecting a
hum t order of the Public Service Com
ii, ' -ion governing tho installation of
t le. ti ic meters
LIQUOR "ADS " BAR MAGAZINES.
V ii.hlimloii Won't Let Her ('1(1-
.n. Ill-nil nf Hot t It-.l .lit).
Si'iiUANK, Wash, Jim 3. llc-nus.' of
li'linu advertising within their covere
Kr ulied, of perloil cais dlsappeareil fro'ii
ishingt.in newnands ts-dny In ac-.-nl'.iuc
wltli the new prohibition law
lTe live Saturday lat. Some of the
nenhis got .ii'iiiinil Ihe law by tearing
out Much p.iges as rui rled prusci Ha d a.l-
V ertlMMIienltl,
S il.itribuling agency nnnniinceil that
S'tir.il pilbllc-itious would Issue edition-
not .yiitalning llipior t'dtertlslng
for rale in Oregon, Washington and
Id ulio
"vr.iv oiik a ri.oiiiiiA mi-hciai.."
r-lni..! Iruln III l.'liirhl.. l,.Hri, A.l.intln
,i.i.' Line, : I: l, M dally, Blrrlrle 1
ikIii.ii Hilling Car. omte, H'wuy & :th HI. !
1
j HOSPITAL HOLDUP RETS $3,500.
I t lilcnan llnhlirrn Arrive on P-
ln- In Trur Wild Went Kara,
Chicago, Jnn. 3. Two robbers armed
with revolver run Into the office o(
St. Luke's Hospital late to-day and
hold up Miss Mury Tobln, cashier, and
compelled thirty nurses to hold up their
hands. They escaped with a cash box
containing J.'OO. ,
It was par lny nt the hospital nnd
.Miss Tobln had 5,000 In her custody.
She had paid out about 11.500 when
the robbers entered and found the line
of waiting nurses and othtf employees.
"Up with jour hands or you'll net
shot!" was the order of one of the
men.
It wjs Miss Tobln who notified the
detective . bureau. That was two or
three minutes after the holdup. Alt tits
employees were so astounded by the
suddenness of the holdup that they did
not move for a time.
GIRL'S ANKLES SAVE 2 LIVES.
Iln llnnleil (o Safety Aflrr Break.
Insr TlirtmKh Ice.
Miss (lore ICrnuss, H. daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Louis L. Krauss. HiU Fort
Independence street. IClngsbridrr. rescued
( two Imys from drowning In one of the
t ponds at Van Cortlandt Park yesterday
11 ormng.
Clatence Carpenter, 12. and his
brother John, 10, who live at 60 Arthur
street, Yotikcre. had been forbidden to
f " ,he But John decided to try
the Ice oti .1 nnnd knnwn na th u
whe)l. 1- nf.r th. ,,b...v ,.rmln.
dropped off a brldKe that spans the pond
1 ne ice nroKe ana ne went Into the
water. Clarence dropped on the Ice to
rescue his
brother, nnd he too went I
through.
.Miss Krauss saw the accident. She
climbed over the railing of the bridge.
mweren nerseir until her feet almost
touched the Ice nnd then shouted to
the boys to "catch hold." With the
two boys holding on to her ankles Miss
Krauss pulled them to safety.
SCHOOLS HERE FEMINIZED.
-
Those In Huston. Derlnre. II r
HllKh Cabot,
I Hostov. Jan. 3. Public school In
I lloston and New York are too much
fl1l!.lle1 til 1fl,(1, r-n .., .
TO PAY CASSEOY'S FINE.
Killlnr M, T. MrXaniara Will KHret
Former Hoes' Rrlrasr.
Michael T. McNamara. editor of the
Far Ilockawiiy .Veirs, a cloe friend of
iifrr.""Jfls'Ph Cassldy. former Democratic hoss
of Queen, county, announced last night
"-.. ould send his personal rl.eck
for 11.000 by special messenger to Great
Meadows tirlson this morning to pay the
fine imposed upon Cassldy when he was
sentence,! for selling a Supreme Court
omnatlon to William Wlllett. Wlllett's
famll, it is expected, also win senu i
mnnev t0 ,. ht! ftn(. n a few dnya.
., cassl.lv competed their
Jau. l,:rm " " "".make sure that no dangerous gases re
tneir lines are pam uiey win ocreieaseu.
Cassldy will probably leave th- prison '
to-morrow If his fine Is paid to-day.
1 TO 2V2 U. S. GOES TO WAR.
I.ou.lon I'n.lrn rllrrs Jamp Rate
From SH in 411 Per Cent.
London, Jan
i i'rwi.r-n-rui ..iwi .
. ... . ' . , . .
ttllhnrfn have nliote.t f!.. TWr ent
,',.,. ,.,, ,.'
nii
"""'..:..".:. . ... ....7- 1
. rent
Th prediction waa made that any I
Increase of business would result In a i
further Increase of the late.
CHICAGO GRIP WEEK KILLS 1,112
New Plairoe Take Heavier Year's
Toll Than All Other Diseases.
Ciiioaoo, Jan. 3. During the last
week of December 1.112 persons died In
this city of grip and pneumonia, break
ing all prevlouh recotds.
The two ailments c.eil more deaths
here In 1913 than all other diseases com
.
lna
806,127 lines gain in year 1915
1,976,194 lines gain in past four years
be tffbfjenms Jstm
NEW YORK
The Evening Sun gained 806,127 lines of advertising in the year 1915 as "compared
with 1914. This is a notable gain, as The Evening Sun has made an advertising in
crease for each of the past four years, since 1911, over the previous year a very re
markable and unique record The Evening Sun being the only evening newspaper in
New York to make consecutive advertising gains.
EVENING SUN
1915 Gain 806,127 agate lines 191.3 Gain 641,965 agate lines
1914 Gain 381,696 agate lines 1912 Gain 146,406 agate lines
This gain is directly due to the splendid results advertisers get from their adver
tisements in The Evening Sun. The Evening Sun prints but little of what is tech
nically known as exchange advertising, and docs not accept at all advertising on a basis
of percentage.
The Morning Sun also had a prosperous year. In the twelve months of 1915 The
New York Sun gained 125,215 lines of advertising over the year 1914.
CIRCULATION
Sworn Circulation Statements to the Federal Coternment for six months ending
October. 1912- 99,170 October, 1914-122,763
April. 1913-104,3 April. 1915-140,203
October. 1913-105,525 October, 1915-155,009
April, 1914 1 10,056 Present Over -170,000
The net paid circulation of THE EVENING SUN is now more than 170,000 Copies.
OIL SHIP BLOWS UP;
2 DEAD: 10 MISSING
Sonic Men Thought Trapped
in Fire Room After Wreck
ing Explosion.
7 INJCREU; MAY DIE
Thirty-seven Men on Vessel
When It Ih Itipppd liy Gases
in Eric Bnsin.
The Norwegian steamship Aztec, an
oil burning- freighter which recently car
Ull liurilllis; "l-IRInri ihm.
rled a enreo of gasolene to Krance and
was soon to depart with another load,
blew up In her slip In the yard of the
lloblns Dry I'ock and Ilepalr Company,
at the foot of Dwlglit street. South
llrooklyn, yesterday afternoon. Two
men are known to have been killed and
ten are missing. Three of the seven In
jured men who were taken to the Holy
Family Hospital are likely to die.
Although nobody has been found who
knows Just what caused the explosion,
which spoutod workmen nnd sailors Into
the air In a geyser of flaming oil. hatch
........ n. an.l fMwn.Af.tM ft t 1 111 :t I (
there Is no suspicion that It was the!
1 H-nrL- nf tlx, wnr nlnltern. unnn tnls
nolnt Cant. Tunney of the .Manhattan
police bonio squau, rire .iinrsn.u
ltrophy, Police Capt. Conboy of the
Hamilton avenue station, tho lloblns
company officials and officers and agents
of the ship are agreed. It Is supposed
that a spark touched off gaseous vapor
between the tanks In the vessel or In
the bilges. Hut as to where the spark
came from there Is as yet no Indica
tion. The Dead.
DoitRHTT, Jainra, I! years old, who
lived at ft Coffey street, llrooklyn,
with his wife and seven children. He
wns foreman of the lloblns workmen
who were overhauling the Axtec.
Jacobskn, Ole. Norwnj : fireman of
the Aztec.
The MlaslnK.
Hobble rompany emplo ces. J. Col
lins No. 2. 11. Sherman. C. Swanson.
O. Nelson.
Crew of the Artec: Hem Ik Krug,
third engineer: Just Schleblcr. fourth
enalneer: O. Andeison, donkey en
gineer: Itaymond Alvarez and D.
Houchy, firemen.
The Injarril.
Tlie three injured men whose burns
and other hurts are likely to prove
fatal are:
MAROSr.T, Matthew, rigger for the
Tloblne company, of 2i9 buquer
street, llrooklyn.
Anolionk. Joseph, maehlnlsl's help
er, of 4SS Flfty-slghlk UeL Brooke
tyn.
IlASMfSsrs. Chnrles. Norwegian cool;.
Four otlieie who were at th Holy
Family Hospital were able to go home.
The Artec, returning from lWir.le.iux
on December 21, was overhauled In the
lloblns dry dock and on January- i
naioinlnir slln for minor
""i'1. "V,?'nl"" ""p. V "iL llZZ
rTp",r". ' "M'".'.,.""" .
..,. h.Ut fnr lloblns com-
t(wK nf the air in various
parts of the ship yesterday morning nnd
reported, according to Ar.irew .near
ey, the company's superintendent, that
the men could work In safety.
There were thlrty-even men on board
i nt 1 o'clock, twenty or them ituulns
swings, seventeen belonging to the Aztec
The cantaln, Kdward Hlillesen, was
nniiui -. ...... ...... ... ... - - i
except the oil flare under the Mller of a
a,.nVev enilne nenr th.. fireroom. whlen
- , ... , ,.,. ....
ran a small uyiiaiiiu. aii tu .nose who
might be able to tell what really hap-
pelled nre now at the joint of ilKi'li
tut others who were on the ship said
that the explosion was III tho tire room
or the engine room. There was no oil
tank within twenty feet, the nearest of
the four tanks that contained the ship's
supply of fuel being separated from the
fire room by U water filled cofferdam.
The cargo oil tanks, which have a
capacity of :,.'oo tons, were empty.
At 1 :2S o'clock workmen on the dozen
other slilps In the yard and the crew of
tugboat that were scurrying through
ICrle Haslh heard the ro.tr of the ex-
Continued on Third Page,
FORD PILGRIMS TO
DISBAND NEXT WEEK
Will Leave for U. S. on Jan. 12
To Travel Through Ger
many to Hague.
WAR RULES ARE IMPOSED
Documents, Cameras, Picture
Postcards and Gold Barred
on Train Trip.
Special Ctiblt petpatci from tl.t Corretpond-
ent or nir. si',
n-i.-nainir
Copsiia0. Jan. I.-The ""n.llnR
of the Kord peace party at The Hague
on January 12 will mean the end of
the mission so far a the support anu
the organization of Mr. Ford Is con
cerr.ed. Mr. Ford haa arransed to pnyj
the ptiMiage home of everybody, but i
those who wish to remain must pay
their expenses while at The Hague. The
party will go Ma uerniniu .o
Hague, leaving Friday, through arrange
ments Just completed. Present expecta
tions are that the. party will return to
New York from llotterdam on January
12. Those appointed on the permanent
peace board will remain at The Hague.
The Ford peace expedition Is going
to travel to The Hague through Ger
many, but the delegates will be locked
In the train like prisoners and will not
be permitted to set foot on Herman
't.'. nn to mske the trin to The
llnguo over Oermitn territory was I
crflnted bv the flertrian Government
through arrangement made by th. Oer- Wwiiinoton, Jon. 3. Although ad
man Consul here. The .State In-psirt-, ntittln? that the continued submarine
XZXoXl activity in east Mediterranean
nf the party to Include a belligerent waters nei evidenced by the reports to
country, und'CaMon Plantlff. Mr Ford's . f . ini.in(. ( tnp rsrltish mcr-
TTXnZVwZ vessel O.en.y.e and the Japa-
Consul hero with the offer to pay $5.- Hteam.lllp Kctllton Mnrn may
000 for a special train on Herman rail- ,m,0-luto atlfactor' ex-
ro",,H' . t. , , ' platiatlon of the destruction of the
Mlll.-r, U.h..m-. ,'uner Persia. .State Department official.
JX": -opeful that out of the situation
would be permitted to go to The Hague miy spring u new understanding be
vla Germany if they would subject ,h United State nnd the
Tii. r.illro:vl. It Is underatdod. has re
fued to take any money for the trip
In addition to the regular charge.
And now with the necessity of under
taking a trip to The Hague by steam
ship through the dangers of the North
Sea nbvlnted, the delegates are busy
miking ready to comply with Germany's
conditions for the railroad Journey
l ner eoiiuiiiuiin hvi J .i.i.u... .w ,
Ing the delegates In their coaches, but i
also make It Impossible for them to
carry with them any written, typewrit-
ten or printed papers. The concealment
of nny paper, of however Innocent a
character, will create complications for
the party.- -The- members of the expe II-
tl.m must also gUe up their cameras.
postcards, opera glas-es nnd gold coin
before starting through Germany. Rarh ,
delegate mu't furnish four extra photo-
graphs of hlmeif. two to be sent to Her.
Iln and two to remain with the Consul. I
Most cf the baggage of the expedition
will be .hlpi.e.1 back to the fnlted States '
from Copenhagen. '
Kom l-iiurin.s mriirii,
Bach nu-mlwr of tlie expedition must
present a passport In perin at tho
German Consulate In Copenhacen
The members were called together to.
lay nnd warned by the present leaders
of the expedition that all the German
(otidltlons mut l carefully obcTved.
They were told that failure to comply
with the conditions laid down would
result' in every offending member being
abandoned to the mercies or the Herman
iimiu'nut'.-i
1. 1....
memlters
In
trav
North
Itev
Hev
was
T n a
the Oowrnor was In a serious condition
and that his Interest wn purely artificial
nnd that If he asked he question again
he would pull his whiskers.
The Ilev. Charles F. Aked, who re-
mnlned in Stockholm suffering from ner
vous prostration, has wired the partf
that he will Join It later.
The arrangement whereby the peace
Coiilfin.rd on Third Page.
II. III. n..ntirr..l im,.n Hon. inillieu luir.j - .... Hp.,mlv ..,1 ,1... u.....! ... A,, .......
miters of the party here ,, Sunday will confer with 'cJXfe , X 5w I . "The first two boats g.,t away nlil.'C!;, ' """f1' W"M " ww shl,.. , The Itu-lan anny wh. , s ha.ntn- -the
course of which Sam Clark, sing, It Is a'0,."l,nb''1,h,,1,,',rIfln right The next one rolled over us It ,U, !Li" 'Ur -ywcastle with a dls Ing the A us .Ian- def. tiding . ..
el ng companion or Gov. llanna of discuss .or e..-....-- e commit- hit the water. There were a lot of , ' , r" " ,""' "ne was r.00 pma.-n.-s ... .,...,ui.
th Dakota, threatened to pull fie William F. Stone iff leS "ae s"m" won,n , th ,,,, , ,np f ,wt feet long an. had a font beam. by Gen. Ivanoff It I" ,e,.,r..l to Ut
. Jenkin 1.10 d Jones's whiskers. The lee on ru.r.n. '''""". Veronvenes it Uvits launched tried to pick them up .. . T . ' . mng "en .nuippe.i aim j.n.t .neo u . '"-
, Iir, Jonf afJ !ro.r Cnv. Ilannn tuti trut rirltnm The wave, kept humping the boat i , n , ,', """'" the mous stores ..I .ummiin lion r mi) iui
getting niong. viarK sam mat nr. no"i ...-..... --- - . iring of against the snetimer's elde. threatening I lj '... .'. "" " roreigir iiiKr.eu ny r.nKi.ui'i. m.- . .. . 01.... ..
u nn,-A ..if.. .oieKfion i cess nine ,i - ...i... i. ..u- .i... ,, .-i. iniinuii. v wuiui.i v ,,, i.ivernnn. uh. ,,,i.i .imii.'iii i ne ..ii.ii'kn. e. tatcjie-t
a TO CALL UPON
TEUTON ALLIES TO END
ILLEGAL UBOAT WARFARE
Will Ask How Fur They
Mean to Observe Kulcs
of International Law.
SniMARIXKS SIXK
FOUK MORE SHIPS
Entente to Be Urged to liar
Mounted Guns Upon Pas
senger
COXORKSS TO ACT:
WILSOX BACK TO-DAY
German aiul Austrian Em
hassios Deelnre Break
Is Unlikely.
Teutonic allien on the mibject of sub
marine warfare.
Such an understanding will bo aimed
nt In steps which the fnlted States, It
Is Intimated in ofllcial quarters, Is
about to take. In calling for a eeneral
statement from all the Central Powers.
Ii..ll, u tn
Including lurKey im
exaotlv how far they meoin to observe
tn j, ot international law.
llmm on I.lners Opaoerd.
(,a,ters It Is regarded
In the same quarters it .is
as more 'than mentX7u
future the Fnlted n':'' ".n""m',?'
approach , '"""J
with a view to getting the n to agree
henceforth to permit no guns 10
mounted on P""""''; Vi'"!' ves now
The purpose o both these n o no
under consideration, responsible otlb la s
-ay. Is to safeguard the 11 es of At m r
can citizens who may be compeiieii 10
mkl. nnssage on me n.so .
chant ships (lying the ,"l!J,aln.(,i )t , 1
'li,''on"' ,,' i,rsla tragic
said, the inmx , of huma-i
as It was In tie (W ' i..K )n ,
life, maj ainr mi i.
disguise. .....n hm-k to
President " UH0" '..,,..,,. from Hot,
Washington on a spe .ini ir. . ,. '
Springs, a., where no "
Ing his honeymoi in. . mondng .
im '"" . the entire sltua-1
nm will lane tnuilfcr ... . . .
views on toe
and "t'- A..atran nnrt German 13m-
At both t e At tstr lan ai n u
lo" "fj11,. ?f K .inSVn. of the
tldetill maoe -
at the embassies 'nor at the State He-
Hi tlie i""- i,., reeelveit
partmenl nits - " V'
of tne reporte.i i..im.i
freighter Olengyle. nor of the JP'e ,
Iner Kenkon Mam. Cnless Americans,
were on board these two "8' no;
ever. the fnlted States ran have no
Interest In their fate, official, explained.
. .
.wlrdlneU Call, on Lan.ln.
ll.tron Zwledlnek, charge d'affaires of
the Austrian T3tnbiissy, called on secre-
tarv Lansing tnis iuirrm" .
Ing to State Department official., he.
, culled merely to ask for further detnlls
. iin,ui. nr.er ins hi o.i 'i i ......
Ei3reKMSBR,S SKIN DISEASE
i, wn. learned that the charge ex-1
pressed confidence that If It Is shown
i that the liner was sunk without warn
1 Ing by an Austrian submnrlno the Aus
trian Government will not hesitate a
moment to disavow the act, punish the
'commander and make reparation. IJaron
i Kwiedlnek Is said to have assured the
uereiurv that It Is the purpose of ills
Government In every way to live up
to the rules of International law ns
I Indorsed In Austria's reply to the Ameri
can note on the sinking of the Aneona,
In State Department circles oillclals
are careful to state that so far the
I American Government has no definite
proofs that Ihe Persia was attacked by
a submarine. It Is regarded as sg
nlfieant, however, that Ambassador Pen.
field at Vienna has been Instructed to
make Inquiries of tlie Austrian Admir
alty. I IVsplte assurance given hy Germany
and the full Indorsement by Austria of
j the principle of International law con
i tended for by the United States, Presl-1
i dent Wilson and his advisers, nccordlng
to reliable Information obtained to.nlght,
are convinced that If rurtlier tragedies
or complications are to he avoided the
United State, must have a complete and
uniform expression from all the Teutonic
allies as to how far they are-prepared
to stand by the rights of neutrals.
Grrmnny'. Guarantee..
Tills, ofilclals say. appears to be neces.
' s.iry from what actually hna occurred
In the development of the submarine
I Issue. First, they say, It was Germany
Whoso operation with the submarines
1 n-ry .',ra ,h.:.. ",," .J.nt
line voriex in tne r.uroifiiii war. vt nen
relations between tlie United Wales and
1 Germany reached a breaking point, It Is
i pointed out, Germany gave oeeurance
that she would conduct her submarine
I wnrfare le accordnrr with the letter of
tho law, Ah a reault of these guarantees
Continued on Jccond Page,
169 on Persia. Saved;
No Tidings of McNeely
Eleven Survivors Landed at Malta Four More Ships
Sunk in Mediterranean, Including a
Second P. and O. Liner.
sptciut Cufce littitait-h to Tim Sua.
London, Jan. 3. Mleven survivors nf
the Persia, Including Lord Charles
Montagu, have arrived nt Malta. Tim
others are two Kngllshmen, 'an Itall iu
and srtven Lascars,
i With the 15S survlors landed
,lti
Alexandria this makes the total saved,
so far as now known, 169 and It Is be
lieved that this represents the cntl-e.
lumber who esdipcd death when the
P. & O. liner was sent to the bottom jr
Thursday last.
Little hope Is now held that Hubert N.
McNeely, American Consul to Aden, wlv
was last seen struggling In the water
after the sinking uf the Persia, has been
saved. Consul-General Skinner here has
given up all hope 'and to-day cabled
Consul Carrels In Alexandria to obtain
a sworn statement from Charles II.
Grant of Hoton, who Is believed to be
the only American survlior.
Apparently the dentil list of .he
sunken ship will run between 20(1 and dived. The steamer Meroe of Livernooi
so; . . . . "rrlvr;1 "'' collected all possible per-
Heuters Cairo correspondent sends sons from the boats and rafts
the following: j "When I pointed out to the Mroe's
"The Ilrer sank so .Ulckly that there , captain the danger lie ran of belnir tor
was r.o time to launch the boats. Waves podoed h,. replied: 'What does that
soon eiuelojd the deck and swept the matter? My ,tlt, cme., lfore everv
passengers and crew intiJ the sea. Cot. thing. I will s.iie all or we shall ill
Itlghnm was standing on the deck bcsldi t.wtlier.' " na" "le
Miss Hughes. He was suddenly Bwept
Into the sea and stink. Un coming up
he bumped against a boat and thus was
saved Two other boats which were
seen to be launched are missing. There
If little hope that further sun 1 vote have
been rescued."
SO PANIC ON PERSIA.
nfflcrra llhllrtilr Idea Tlmt n Mine
lank the l.lner.
Ai.nxANPRiA, Jan. 3. Surviving of
ficers of tlie Ilrlllsh liner Tersia lunded
here to-day positively asserted that the
liner wax sunk by a torpedo. Tlie- Idea
that a mine might have caused the dis
' aster u rapWllv -a tu nuwu a low of
250 lives was ridiculed. The eecond of
ficer declares that he saw the white
wake of the torpedo.
The rumor of a panic on lioard rtilp
w.ie. ilet led by Leonard Miws, one of
the Ilrlllsh .ur Ivors. Moss laid th.
heavy lrws of life to two tilings. First
tlie fact that tlie Persia sank In lees
than lx minutes, nnd second, that mot
of th" passenger were at lunch at th
, . . .
"No one was thinking of submarines.",
he said. "We were steaming along at
about eighteen kiwts when struck. Flrt
I h.rd a dull boom, then a cracking
sound. It feeme.1 only a second before
the ship began to list
"Thwe of us on deck rushed for the
heats. The cre.w couldn't do anything
with the IhkUs on the starboard fide be.
caue of the heavy llt. People came
running up from below, women and chll-
..... 1.
away. The next two Itoats got clear
Just before the Perela went down."
M
the liner by the waves Just before she
1(I . , . , . ,.....,.
others w-ere carried off with him audi
were n ckrd mi ater 1
'
BRITISH CAPTAIN A HERO.
1 llescner nf Cli.tnl Survivor, nisre-
I gnrded V lliinl Peril.
Special CuAe ttttpateh to Tn Scv
3 c,n of ,he
prench steamship Vllle tie la Clotat.
vvhlrli was sunk In the Mediterranean
recently wim tne io,s oi ninety-two lives.
-
MAY BE GANGER SIGN
i . . Pvra nisiloTPO Illlf
"till" r..lis I'lMiitt, nut
Have Artificial Palate
Hi'ndy if N'ppdod.
Special Cable fletpateh to Tnr Sri.
ItoMK, Jan, 3 News has leaked out
of llerlln that the Kaiser is not euff ig
from a malignant carbuncle, but from
an alarming eruption of the skin which
In feared to be a symptom of cancer.
Ills Hps have been particularly affected
nnd the surrounding tissues of his mouth
and throat are becoming Involved.
Tho experts called Into consultation
are not In ngreenunt In thc r dlagiuHs
am, forn) (t( treatment. They aie tet
u,iecliled whether or not to perform ti
i urBcl, operation, but leaf lemoval of
,(J affected pins should be found to
,)P dispensable nn artificial palate Is
holl, n rednfw,
I
HAS LENT $2,000,000,000.
I ., , ., . . , ,,.,.
1 dvni'e. It. Her llle.
Hit Kniirinnn. Tnlal,
,.iv,r,nv i,.,. 3it Is eHtimite.l tint
! ln ' t!V ilrmt' Ilrt tab, haa aill
t inn nnn nnn if nnn nnn mint ...
Znwr t00."00'000 -.000,nno.nnn) to
ncr
HOITIIKRN RAIMVAVR ftTrKltll
"Al'Ol'HT.V HPBn.lt,"
For Columbia, Aiken, Augusta, t.v. ,N. T.
dslly t ton I'. M. Compartment, drawing,
room snd section Pullman. Dining cur er
vice N. Y. Ufflce ll Fifth Ave, Aiv,
. r ...,, no ..nil1,! , ..n-'i,- ii.'i. ..nil rne ii-ii-.i .1, inn, I .- -. fit,- - -
ALL
has made an otllclal report of the sink
ing on his arrival at Marseilles.
According to this story, the watch
at 10. '10 signalled that he h&d caught
sight of eddies on the surface of the
water. The captain ordered the man
at the wheel to steer In tho direction In I
whlch they were seen. This direction'
n.io nuiivviy iicen raaen when there wa
a terrible explosion which shook the
ship. The ship was struck at 10:15.
At 10:30 exactly the ship disappeared,
having preserved her speed up to the
last minute. J
In describing the attempt to launch
boats the captain reports that this war
itwwt difficult, owing to the speed of the
op nun tim nsi which she had taken.'
lie ras :
"The submarine remained near ui
having taken aboard one of the sailors.'
of whom an officer asked In good French
.ne Hume or tno vessel, how muny troops
there were aboard and why the ship
had a cannon aft. Some more persons
apurailng lit sight the officer of the
submarine placed them .in a raft, telling
thiMi that the smoke seen on the horizon
"""f " an Hngush steamer which
i would save them. Th. t.,-...i. .
FOUR MORE SHIPS SUNK '"ton"'', a ,"'ll!llt ppaientiy
. 'naklng slow but steady headway. In
Tno British and Onr Japanese Ve. Voln'nin a battle has been prooecdli.g
sel Torpedoeil Mrillterrnuran ' 'r the l,,St "Ve iay" "" Ktyre
London, Jan. 3. Iteports rea-1 ' n "U"' "ortl1 ' Czartorysk, nnd as
to-day uf' the sinking In" t'he'diter-' ,ar " ,ho IrlHl marshes. C.artorrk,
raneaii of four morn merchant ships ' ln ,h K"vel-S.irny sector, has been bit
" , ,'','",Mter to '''r.Ha. Theseterly contested ror months. Never since
UH-, ,,'Ien';''r "f 'he Glen Line of I the GalloUin battles in the .arller Mage
d,,n it, 1 1 'rpm Shanghul to Lon- of the war has the lighting for this i-olm
..,aH.. ... 1?B . "rl,,s!l merchant sub- been so bltte- as In the prerent struggle.
),w ?i i."i,',,ee 'nblc: the St. which Is still undecided.
UhVS i' Z J. ' . ,0n?' ,ml'lo'd In Hr.t- . Onl by wiest.lig fiom the Teutons the
t..n , VZl i? n-f. u"d the Kenkon . Volhynlan fcrti esses Uubnu and l.utzk
innv'f V y th" Inul sIPPlng Com-' will the ltud.ms be able t., u,l.rt,.k
ne n,.f,i.. pan' 8U,PPQed Jo have been 'a new-campaign lis-alnst eatc-n Galicla
l I m 7 2.'00 ,on"- " a larger s.-al- ltovro, th... third
m nljir. JS t, . "'. 11 was announced ( stronghold, Is sldl held by the Czar
10-nMht, the Peninsular and nri..... .
ir.l , ' "felling, or 5,030
tons, has been sunk, presumably In the '
Me.llter-an.Mn. All the passengers a d '
crew were saved V detail, ,11. ,
talni.blc
llio tiassengers on tlie GlenAi.
...i ,.,eu, ..eeorauiL- ... tim ....... .
Maf.a T,IV,,1.V0m " Wt In
n v t, n,,t known whether or not
an Americans were aboard. Ten of
the crew. Ineln.ll rtL . " "
supposed to have been losi Th. An"..
' .' '"11 t-ninese, are
gyle sailed from Shanghai November -
Slngaitore, Decembei ii, carrying it Inritil
quantity of foodstutTs and although a
freight ship h number of passenger,
She was torpedoed, according to the
despatch, betw.en Port Said and Malta
Word of tlie sinking of the Kenkon
Mnru reaclKd tlie Admiralty Immedlatelv
t. ti--r in tu,. t.iengvies fate ..
whs ...si reporieu at Mudros, In the
'.genii, irom Alexandria, October 13
i:lriiK)li. Snllril I'miii Tsciims With
SM
Mnnltlfi... ,
lliintdnn. for lln.,ln.
(.ATTI.1
Wash.. Jnn ,1. The ni.n,.i.
wlilch was sunk In the Mediterranean' head of Hurkanow and furthei be.votiil
wus built particularly for the Pugei Wisnlowsk to llucriic Here th. Itus
Sound and Oilental Ilrlllsh service by sinus nm endeavoring to make headway
the Hoyal Mail Steam Packet Company toward L.imb.rg and capture that city,
of London and arrived here on her I Czernowltr. Is t onstdercd b military
maiden trip from Knglnml on Mnrch 12' experts the "ke.v to the Carp.i'hian,."
last. After being delayed for some time Hk capture by tlie Huians wi aid con -by
a strike of longshoremen she sailed pel the T.". ton, to ah union Hie r pus'-
from Taroma April 2 with a cargo of
supplies to be discharged at Vladivostok
1 for the Husslan army and valued
it
i l.sno.oou,
JAPANESE WARSHIPS
GOING TO SUEZ CANAL
Tfcporl of Torppdoinp;
Second Nippon Liner
Causes Action.
of
Tokio, Jan. 3. Japan has ordered a
squadron of warships to proceed at once
',''.,'," ,,), iui..." ,.. .
...... .v .... u.j. . rviii.jiiivitt,
newspaper Tlie armored cruisers K.i-
suga, Toklwa and Chltose are mentioned
as the lirst warships to put to sea for the
Suez zone.
Tlie announcement . .me upon the
heels of report that nnothrr Japanese
steamship, the freighter Kenkoku, had
been hunk in ihe Mediterranean on He
.ember Jli. The new of the Kenkoku,
said to liavo been sunk by a German
HUhmarine, wu landed at Cannes,
France, She was a vessel of 2,109 tons.
Site was bound for F.nglan.1 from Manila
with a cargo of hemp ami was under
dm iter to n foreigner.
The reported Japanese naval order
may foreshadow Japanese participation
In the Allies' operations, aimed at pre
venting the threatene.' Turco-Germnn
Invasion of ICgypt.
Iinprobiible, Official. Mu,
Washinutok, Jan. 3. The Japanese
F.mbassy wilt he greatly surprised If
Japanese squadrons are sent Into the
Mediterranean In ttld the Allies In
reparation for the sinking of Japanese
steamers by Central Power submarines.
"We have no report of such a move,
ft ts distinctly Improbable," an embassy
ofllcial declared to-day, discussing the
report,
RUSSIANS GAIN
IN NEW DRIVE
NEAR RUMANIA
Are .'15 Miles Inside the (ia
lician Frontier, .Menac
ing Czernowitz.
FAIL TO PEXETRATI3
' AUSTRIAN' LINES
Vienna Tells of Bepnlse of
Muscovites at Top
erontz. CZARTOHYSK CHIEF
OBJECTIVE IX NORTH
Czar's Army Hopes to Get
Astride Important ,
Railway Line.
fpeeial Cable Ie$,i:tr 10 Tmk 8r
IjO.ndon', Jan. 3. The Bukowlria, the
province of Volhynla and the western
part of Ilcssarahla constitute the battle
ground f violent righting between two
huge armies, (tusslan and Autro-Ger-man,
which began nearly a week ago
and Is still In full swing, with the Ilu
slans the attackers and with Itum.mlx'a
eventual aid the prize.
In the. llukowina tho battle centres
around Czernowltz, capital of the crown.
I land. Hern the Itusslatis yesterday
I m Teuton t i I I, In.',
Tlie HUHsl.tu offelislt.' nt Volhliia
j therefore Is it lined at g.ilu'ug the entire
. Kovel-Sarny sector of th- Iliesl-Lltotsl.-
Kleff railway, thus cutting on the e.
sentlal Teuton siitply hue, and then
driving southward In a Hanking mote
ment against Lutzk and Iiiibno.
The Austro'tiennati for.."., on tint
I other hand, by decisively defeating tin)
Husslau in tills r.glon would gain tho
ro:lt' llov"- 1,11,1 tlu' PO"rfslim of that
fortress would stt.ngtlicn the r position
tremen.lously
' '"''Id Marehil vvn .Ma. lu in-"i )io
conducted the Teuton lnviil..ii of Serbia,
,K" ,""'" onl'r'''1 '" ,:ilu' ""' "ef ttm
I mand of the Austro-i iennan for v. i
uarta, ii i,-iiu.-u i.'-h.m
from the front say.
formation
On the east Galli l.ui front which, with
the. Ilessarabl.m .-ector, stt.l. lie, clo
, ... . i ... .i... .,,.u
l me I .UIO..IU..O " I. m'- .'.'.! nth.-'
i ,,,.,,. ,.,. I r T....io.,l. ...i lit.,
middle and upper Slrviia tlie bridge
tlons near the ituin.itiiaii iron.ier
The pro-ally elements .' Itllln.llli.t
have replied to tlie entente repr. ntH
tlons uiglug Hiimanian uilerv eiilion that
the time for Ituui.inia lo Jm- tli Allies
had passed wltli the Tnit.ui nnViMva
which a jear ago drove the Itn--. ins out
of tho Catpatlilaii Mountaii paex- and
out of the greater pan ot ial ja Hit
mania has pointed to tile menace, 'o lie!
'border piesented by the pi ."nice of largo
I Teuton force,, Til" Hllssi.tli, alt no A
believed t be stnving for a i.ew great
Gallclan drive which would m cesMtatu
the withdrawal of tho Teuton menace to
llumanla, so that tho Ci.ir mi then Im
1 In a portion to make tangible trprw
' sentatlons at Itucliarest and eventually
swing llumanla Into active cooiicratloii
with the llntente Pnweis.
An. Irian. Itrpnrl Iclol'j
I It was to thl, end that Hie Itussl.iii
I army, for month held m read ness In
( Hessarabla for :t drive ai lliilgarla
thiuugli llilinaniaii termor wn, sent lo
Galicla and Volli ni.t. Tin ii'tny la
believed to be well equipped w ill am
munition, principally from Japan
Tint following: stalenieiu w,., i.ssucil
by the Austrian War l tithe to. night
In llefsarabl.t tlie eiietu n nil o
break thiough our lines m tin .-ect ir
around TopeinuU (on ilm lie ....ralii..
bolder, northeast of Czernowltz) but
failed. We capliired III c. ollktr
and h50 men.
At the mouth of tlie Serelh. on the
lower Strypa, and on the K,tu
rivulet of tlie Styr, Itus, i, in atl.iti,
were repulsed.
Contrary to tlie Vienna annoiinieniei,
that the KusslaiiK failed to l.icik through
the Austrian lines at Ti.ii,,-iim'z. an
otllclal Husslan report iivcivcd t.t ii',:
from Potrograd asserts tint ilm tzirt
forces urn "advancing unintei nunedlj
In that region. The slateinei,' adds thai
tint Teuton losses were v.i Inui Ti..'
Itusslitns say they captured "'!' men ai d
16 olllccrs.
Ilii..lnu Army llluuer.
Tho ItUMslans appear to be pressin
on steadily, Tim .statement in thn Kui,
hlan.r,efibrt that the TUB prisoners were
unwnunded Indicates that the Muscovite
have, tho weight of numbera on thdr
.11 e III .11,- ' n
