TK&& r
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
rcrr
VOL. II-NO. 90
rillLADIilLPiriA, TUESDAY, JANUARY -i, J 1)10.
Conntoni, 1018, t Tni Fcno LtDont Commht.
PIUCE 0103 CENT
WILSON GIVES
PLEDGE TO ACT
ifPERSIACASE
nwsfdent. in Formal An
nouncement, Admits Crisis
"With Austria Is Grave-
WAITS ON INFORMATION
Holds Conference With Senator
" Stone and Secretary Lansing.
Concress Won't Interfere
I-
WASHINGTON, Jan. -J.
e" "The President and the Secretary
A of State are tnkinp every means pos
C slblc to obtain the full facts in this
.Terave matter and will act just as soon
as the information is obtained."
it" This significant stntcment wns is
sued at the White House today shortly
f after President Wilson reached Wash
ington from Hot Sprinjrs.
f The statement was made throuRh
Private Secretary Joseph P. Tumulty.
President Wilson, in announcinR that
action would bo taken in the subma
rine controversies as affecting this
Government as soon ns full informa
tion is obtained, rcvcnlcd that rcla-
ions with Austria nre at nn extremely
critical stage.
It is learned that President Wilson
plans to centralize the responsibility
. for submarine warfare and to make a
demand that will closely approach nn
ultimatum, that the Central Powers
make pood all of their promises.
Officials say they behove that Aus
trian submarine commanders, angered
because they believe the Foreign Of
fice should have upheld them in the
Ancona case arc "running amuck."
Secretary Lansing has informed
Ambassador Bcrnstorff informnlly
that the State Department is consid
ering modifying its position with re
gard to the carrying of guns by mer
' chantmen.
It was announced that no Cabinet
meeting would be hold today.
The President hns nmilo up his mind,
officials In Ills confidence say, that the
existing conditions nro Intolerable. Itc
has decided, It Is explained, tlint the
United States can no longer take chances
on the whim of a submarlno commander
Lrlfislng It Into the European wnr. He-
Contlnurd on I'nRe rirtcrn. Column lite
EDWARD PERRY
DIES OF PNEUMONIA
Founder of Clothing Firm Suc
cumbs to Disease at His
Home Here
EDWARD PERRY
Edward Perrv. founder nf tlin rlnthlncr
firm of Perry & Co., 16th and Chestnut
treels. died nt liEO nVlnck thin afternoon.
t'-at his home, 2016 North 22d street, of
(pneumonia. Mr. Perry was stricken last
Thursday afternoon, while In his office at
the store.
Mr, Perry's corditlon. which at llrst.
ftccordlng to his olivsiclans. did not ao-
j War to be very serious, became grave last
Sunday, He as a widower. Ills wife
liea a year ago. Ilcd Mr. Perry lived
f Wtll next February he would have cele
brated his 79th birthday. He Is survived
?y three sons, and two duughtcrs. The
SMnj are John T. j?erry, Edward R.
j ferry and .'oseph M. Terry; the claugh
Sm are Mrs. D. J. Campbell and Mrs.
It. " Bogan. Thci all reside In this
sMr- Perry was prominent In Masonic
f Continued on I'age VKtte n. Column Four
THE WEATHER
hFn, Dl.:i.j.i,. , .........
I J i 'Witty warmer tonight:
!inerfa2 increasing cloudiness and
?ifoutherlu and fresh.
10ST AND FOUND
hSSSirf;,,:1 dy' diamond lne. Will (lndei
I iS5..J,.'?ri.,aT. '-' Saturday evening.
R bwfcfh"' re!? enamcleJ watch In a dark
I OothtSL 'r..wrUt.baPd' ln S"abrldgo &
P?ad uW , Ijurae. conlalnlnx money, pau
r i.f,,Jl.vck,, "ward If pass and papers
jjy.-iHMJ no. autlon. O U3, Led. Cent.
itBdha r?fn?' "mor 2S. 1U1S. Udy'a
fVmif WtalalnB mono and other article.
Pgg .iniey jsi. CUy Halt
P'Wsij:. V"l "und (treen enamel brooch.
I. V, ?$? January 4. Itewanl If riftirni1 In
f JiitjA 'loom. S30. t'uullc Uditcr ornte. I
f ppf "c cwnurUpet.
': tot on S,UEK 'D lauvs H.vati
.T n S4lUrdjv ...nfn. V.d,ki..n V un.1 I
rewVra. "iTSi, ia? OttUt
, 'if -JV i
me ($$t jm
laW j tS JfliilalalalalalalalalalalalaHI
r ,r lu,'t M et ? tf aid 41
Babes in arms and aged women past the century mark were fed at the quarters of the Moyamensing Soup
Society, D2(5 South 8th street, where the annual distribution of hot soup and bread was begun this morning.
BRITISH CABINET
MEETS TO FRAME
NEW DRAFT BILL
Derby Plan of Voluntary
Enlistment to Be Super
seded by Drastic Act
50 PER CENT. VOLUNTEER
Premier Asquith Hopes to Put
New Scheme Up to Parlia
ment Tomorrow
LONDON', Jim ..
Slngo men between the ages of 23 nnu "6,
Incluiive, who enlisted In tho Derby re
cruiting campaign, were today called to
tho colors. They are to report for service
on February 8.
Tho cnll was Issued following adjourn
ment of n Cabinet meeting, at which the
Ministers agreed on the form of con
scription for a new bill and following
publication of llgures showing the Derby
campaign to have been n failure.
Oroups six to nine under the Derby
schemo wero called to tho colors. With
tho groups already called, tho British
armies will be reinforced by Bcveral
hundred thousands.
Premier Asquith confirmed the reports
that Sir John Simon, Secretary of State
for Home Affairs, has resigned from the
Cabinet.
Though Jt was reported that other Min
isters would resign becauso tho conscrip
tion policy has been ndopted, every mem
ber except Simon attended today's
Cabinet session.
Sir John Simon Is a Liberal In politics
and had served In a previous Cabinet
as Attorney General. Ho was given the
Portfolio of Homo Secretary when the
coalition Cabinet was formed several
mouths ago.
Only 13 per cent, of the unmarried
youths and men of military nge of Great
Ilritaln volunteered for service In the
Hrltisli armies in tho six weeks' recruiting
campaign Inaugurated by Lord Derby to
obtain new forces for the wur.
Tho official statement confirmed, pre
vious reports that the Lord Derby cam
paign' plan had proved a failure. It was
made public by the Government to show
why It was necessary to adopt some form
of conscription. It called attention to the
fact that C51,160 men can be added to the
Continued an l'axe l'lte, Column Tho
LOTTA DISPERATA PEL
POSSESSO DEL LOVCEN
La Forte Posizione Montene-
grina Bombardatn dalle Navi
Austriache da Cattaro
AustriacI e montenegrlnl sono Impea
natl In una dlsperata lotta per 11 pos
msso del Lovcen, la montagna da cul
domlna le Bocche dl Cattaro e che e'
sempre r.e'.le main dl re Nicola. Al
l'attacco sul Loveen prendono parte run
soltanto lo forze austriache dl terra, ma
anche le navl da guerra che si troyano
nel porto mUlture dl Cattaro. 11 Lovcen
ha una Importanza strategics, veramente
eccezlonale glacche' esso' rende poco sl
cura la base navale nustrlaca dl Cattaro
che e' necessarla all'Austrla per possl
blll operazlonl navall nell'Adriatlco merl
dlonale o nell'Egeo.
generale Cadorpa ha annunclato che
gli austrlacl hanno attaccato le, poslzloni
itallane sul Monte San Mlchele, ma che
sono statl resplntl ed hanno sublto gravl
perdite. Sul Monte San Mlchele gli
Italian! occupano tre delle cinque eom
mlta', e le loro poslzloni, che sono state
consolidate da olcune settlmane, sono
fortissimo.
K' btato annunclato a Toklo che II
governo glapponese mandera' tre In
croclatorl nel Medltefraneo per cpoperare
con le tlotte alleate alia caccla ai sotto
marlnl teutonlcl. Intar.to I comandantl
ulleatl hanno rlcevuto ordlnl severlssiml
per la dlstruzlone dl quest! sottomariul, e
al dice che l procedera' airoccupazlone
dl parccchle Isole neutrall dell'Egeo per
togllere le bast dl rlfornlmcnto alia
sllurantl teutonlcbe.
(Leggere in 5a pagina le ultimo e plu
dettagilate ootlxld sulU fuerra, la
Itallano j
SOUP KITCHEN A HAVEN FOR
BREAD! BREAD! PLEADS
102-YEAR-OLD WOMAN
AND IT IS GIVEN HER
Moyamensing Soup Society,
Haven for Poor in Cold of
Winter, Reopens 'to Aid
All Comers Among Poor
PROMOTERS ARE HAPPY
"Ifo tnnta fnmo! r.ino! Panot Pane!"
The benumbed lists of Mrs. Teresa
Senta, 102 years old, of S23 Carpenter
street, a ragpicker, pounded on tho green
palnted door of tho Moyamensing Soup
Society quarters..aL 2 South 8th street,
today ns she kept calling ln a feeble
tone tho above words. Near her feet
wub a little emptp can and old-fashioned
stiaw basket. Across tho street stood
girls, boys and a few r.-othcrs. Tho
strange words wero heard by two joung
Ameilcnn women
"What docs she mean?" both women
asked In a chorus.
Tony Copablanco, 14 years old, of Sth
and Montrose stieets, ho Is known us
tho "Terror of Llttlo Italy," nnd who
also had nn empty cuu and a b.isket,
furnished the following Interpretation:
"I nm so lmngrj Ilrcail, llread, Urcad."
Tho Moyamensing Soup Society, which
was organized more than 50 years ago,
this morning began Its annual winter dis
tribution of hot soup and bread to thoso
who are hungry and haven't any money.
It wns not necessary to Issuo invita
tions. Any of the old-tlmo store owners
who nre located In tho nelphborhoo.1
where the Moyamensing Soup Society Is
situated will tell you that a crowd always
appears whenever the weather Is cold
nnd nlso whenever tho breadwinners of
families who live In tho pocketed section
lose their Jobs.
Mrs. Seata wosn't there today to get
soup and bread Just for herself. The soup
which she received she later divided with
Mrs. Angelina Capanlu, S7 years old, who
shares the llttlo one-room apartment In
tho rear at the Carpenter Btreet address.
Mrs. Seata is known In South Phlladel-
Continued on Tour Seven, Column Two
THREE GIRL 'RAFFLES'
IN HIGH SCHOOL ARE
WATCHED BY POLICE
'Hello, Helen, What Have You
Missed Today?" Usual Greet
ing Among William Penn
Students Now
MANY ARTICLES STOLEN
Girl Thief Situation at
Williani Penn High School
Hand of pupil thieves at work,
desiftnated by detectives as Miss
Raffles No. 1. Miss Raffles No. 2
and Miss Raffles No. 3.
Prom 20 to 25 thefts within three
weeks
Value of stolen articles may
amount to hundreds of dollars.
Girl thieves may have stolen be
cause of poverty and desire to dress
as well as other pupils of well-to-do
parents.
Police try to pick three guilty
ones from 2033 girls.
A "Raffles" band of High School girls,
bdieved to be three In number, Is exe
cuting a systematic and baffling series
of robberies at the William Penn High
School for Girls, at 15th and Mt. Vernon
streets.
Indignation among parents of the stu
dent victims was expressed today, while
the police and tho school authorities are
endeavoring to solve the mystery and to
pick the guilty ones from among 2033 stu
dents. From 0 to 25 thefts have occurred in
the last three weeks, it was aleiltted
today by W, D. Lewis, principal of the
school. Furs, fountain pens, money,
purses and pocketbooks, gloves, sweat
ers, coats, hats and other articles are
disappearing with a regularity that is
as mysterious as It I annoying. The
value of the stolen objects may run into
Continued on l'ie Fifteen, Column Three
THE POOR
BIG BATTLESHIPS
HERE IN SAD NEED
OF EQUIPMENT
Only Two of the Six Now
at Navy Yard Ready
for Active Service
LACK OFFICERS' AND MEN
Admiral in Command of Six
Fighting Craft When Rqgu
' latioris" Provide for'Fdur'
Six battleships In tho reserve fleet nt
tho Philadelphia Navy Yard lack 10S olll
cers nnd 320O men to mako a full comple
ment of their crews, two others on the
active list have only 40 per cent, of their
complement nnd at least six of tho ships
would rcqulro a much longer time than
the regulation limit to prepare for active
service, nccoidlng to statements made by
olllcers nt the yard.
The ships of the reserve fleet arc the
Alabama, the North Dakota, tho Mis
sourl, tho Ohio, the Wisconsin and tho Illi
nois. The regulations of the Navy Depart
ment require that they have a total com
plement of 13S olllcfts ranging from ndmlr
nls to warrant olllcers, nnd 4200 men. Only
30 olllcers and less than 1000 men now man
tho ships. Only two ships at tho yard nre
In llrst-clnss condition. They nro tho
Michigan and tho South Carolina. The
Connecticut and tho Minnesota lack 60 per
cent, of their complement, although on
tho active list.
Criticism Is nlso freely mart, privately,
of the action of tho Government In piling
tho work of several men on one ofllccr ns
the icsult of this shortage. As an cx
nmplo of this, It Is pointed out that upon
the death of Commander Knapp, Captain
C. 11. Price, -who took his place, did the
work of three men until a successor was
Continued on I'mrr live. Column Tho
BARROOM AND BOOZE
OR OYSTERS ONLY?
THE VITAL QUESTION
Woman Suffrage and Local Op
tion Having Their Say on Sub
ject of Another Saloon in 52d
and Market Streets District
"ELECTION" IN PROGRESS
Woman suffrage and local option are
realities In Philadelphia today, and by
the order of Judges; In that section of
the city for which B2d and Market streets
Is the bustling business centre, women,
as well as men, are using -what Is tho
equivalent of a vote on the question
whether the oyster bar at the corner of
62d and rtansteud streets, near Market,
shall become a saloon or remain nn oys
ter bar.
It was predicted today by business men
that the saloon would be defeated, that
there would be 1600 votes, against it and
only 600 votes for It.
S. J. Cunningham Is proprietor of the
oyster place. He leases It from John
y. Graham, of the Hotel Jamison, 1100-11
Filbert street. Mr. Qraham wanted to
transfer his Filbert street license to his
West Philadelphia property, as he will
have to make way for the Parkway.
When the question of the transfer came
before Judges Staake and Patterson in
the License Court the other day, there
Continued on Page Seven, t'ulunin One
THIRD OPERATION ON HUERTA
Physicians Still Hope for Recovery of
Ex-President
EL PASO, Tex., Jan. i. Another oper
ation was performed this morning on
General Vlctorlano Huerta at hU home
on West Boulevard, In an effort to save
bis Ufe. This was the third, operation in
as many flays.
General Huerta's condition Is serious,
but the doctors hold out a slight chance
for hi recovery
KAISER DAILY
GROWS WORSE,
DUTCHjNSIST
Suffering From Blood Poi
soning, According to
Berlin Reports
CROWN PRINCE REGENT
Proposed Imperial Trip to Con
stantinople Now
Abandoned
AMSTIHtDAM, Jnn. 1. nmperor Wil
liam l) suffering from blood poisoning
nnd his condition li dally becoming worse,
according to reports that have i cached
' here from Ocrmntiy.
I DcBplto repented denials, these state
that the Knlser has been operntcit upon
twice without ony Improvement being
noted
Crown Prlnee I-'redeilck William will bo
tei" ir.irlly entrusted with tho Imperial
? er unless hit father's condition
Angrn in tho near future, it Is ndded.
The Kaiser had planned to leave foi
Constantinople on January 15. It Is said,
hut this plan wns nbnndoiied by oulem of
hli physicians, who permit only Imperial
Chancellor von Hcthninnn-llollweg lo
lslt the Knipoior.
According to storlei from Swiss trav
ellers recently returned from Germany,
It was reported ln Herlln that the spe
cialists caring for the Kaiser had dis
agreed oer the nntuio of his malady,
but had finally agreed that n severe oper
ntlon i necessary. Hli aliment, they
asserted. Is of a cnnccroui nature and
affects tho throat nnd mouth, making It
Impossible for tho Kaiser to take solid
food. Ono report Is that u cancerous
growth has attacked tho Kaiser's lips,
making necessary an operation that will
senr him for life.
Several days ago n Tnrls newspaper
published tho story that a short whllo be
foro the wax, Prcnch makers of anatom
ical appliances wero asked If they could
const! uct an artificial palate for a "very
exalted personage."
Tho Kaiser's father, Ihnpcror Frederick,
("I'liscr Fritz") died at Charlottcnburg In
1SS7, after an operation for cancer of tho
throat.
MISS LUCY BERGER
WED TO ARMY OFFICER
Philadelphia Girl Marries Lieut.
" ' Leland HobbS, Sweetheart
of Childhood
Philadelphia society nnd nrmy circles
were Interested today to learn of tho mar
riage yesterday of Mi's Lucy D. Hcrgcr,
daughter of .Mr. and Mrs. William Ucrger,
of 237 North 611 street, to Lieutenant Le
land S. Hobbs, U. H. A.. West Point gral
uate and Bon of Mr. nnd Mrs. W. K.
Hobbs. of 1130 South AVllton street, In
Tucson, Ariz.
Miss Merger nnd Lieutenant Hobbs have
been friends since childhood, when they
walked to school each morning. Unbln
went to the Hoys' High School at Ilro.ll
and Oreen streets, while the girl went to
the William Penn High School, at 15th
anil Mount Vernon streets.
When the two wero graduated they
planned to marry. Tho boys family, how
ever, moved to Jersey City, and for Homo
tlmo tho pair wero bcp.irnted. Hobbs, who
was exceedingly blight and a good nth
lete, was appointed to West Point. He
wns graduated last June. The two then
renewed their plans for marriage, and the
engagement wns nnnounced on July 19.
On September 1 Lieutenant Hobbs was
assigned to the 12th Infnntry, nt N'ogales,
Ariz. He left for his command on Sep
tember 12, after making arrangement)) for
Miss Ucrger to follow him. Miss Herger
left for Nogales on November 30. The
olllcers and men nt tho post gave the pair
a rousing welcome, nnd preparation for
the marriage was the thought of every
one for the time. Word of the marriage
reached here today.
Tho pair left Immediately Tor Los An
geles, where they spend a two weeks'
honeymoon, after which they will return
to the post at Nogales. Although Lieu
tenant Hobbs has been at his post only
since the middle of September, he has
already seen active tcrvlce.
About a month ngo a large detachment
of Villa's men attacked the 12th Jnfantry.
Hobbs was In command, and a pitched
battle took place. The Americans left 10
dead Mexicans on the Held. One Ameri
can was killed and three wero Injured.
Hobbs wns unhurt.
MANY IN PERIL WHEN
THIEVES STEAL METER
Two Men, Arrested When Po
liceman Detects Odor of Gas
on Clothing, Are Held
The odor of gas coming from the clothes
of two men who passed Policeman Smith,
of the 3d street and Falrmount avenue
station, led to their arrest eurly today
and the accusation thnt they are the per
sons who detached a meter In a house
at 726 North Kront stieet, causing nine
persons, two of them children, to bo over
come. The lctlms were at the point of
death when rescued. Ten minutes longer
In the gas-fllled house would have ended
their lives, physicians said.
The prisoners. Dennis (Scrapper) Mc
Glnnis and Joseph (Booer) McCann, both
without homes, were denied bail by Mag
istrate llcuton at the 10th and lluttonwood
streets police station. They were held to
await the outcome of the Illness of the
victims. In tlie arrest of McGlnuU and
McCann. the police say the believe they
have the men responsible for a number of
gas meter robberies. In most cases the
occupants of tho houses robbed wero over
come by gas. One of the most recent of
this type of robbery was at 701 North
Vront Btree, two weeks ago.
A chancer' headache which bothered Mrs.
Elizabeth Greensteln, proprietor of the
house Inwhich the robbery occurred to
day, andJthe heroism of William Hender
son, o. negro, one of the lodgers, were
the means of saving the lives of the oc
cupanw. A few hours before daylight
Mrs. Gieensteln. unable to sleep because
of a lisadache, discovered the gas leak.
Centlnutd oa Vare Two. Column. Ou
QUICK
GREEKS INCENSED AT SARRAIL
BERLIN, Jaii. 4. The Greek people nre reported to lie greatly
excited 6ver the refusril of General Savrnil to release Consuls of tho
Gr.trni Empires seized at Snlonica. Arrest of the Norwegian Consul
General Sccfelder Is expected lo give vise to fresh piotests,
ALLIES THREATEN TO BLOCKADE GREEK ISLAND
BERLIN, Jan. -i.-jThe Allies have threatened to blockade tho
lUand of (fytilciio unless Greece lelcasca two allied agents who i
robbed Gicek malls bound for Athens and wcie atrcatcd, nccoid.ng'
to AtUviiu dl&pa'clica today
PHILADELPHIA POSTOFFICE REVENUE BREAKS RECORD
1'ostmnstiT John A. Thornton announced today that tho revenues from tho
Philadelphia postollioo for tho yrnr outline December 31, 191G, nro tho largest
over recorded for any cnlcndiir year ln tln history of the city. Tho nmount
collected was $8,704,131.14. which is a derided increase over tho amount of
lust year. Tho nlunic f ChrlHtrnuH mnll handled In PhUnrtcIiihla last month
likewise wna tho largest ever known in this city. Tho prosperity wnvo which
la nwrrpltiri tho country, postnr uflU'Iuls Fay, Is responsible for the record-breaking
receipts.
O'LEARY SUES REYBURN
Suit Ims boon begun in tho Municipal Court ngtUnst the ostnto of ox-Mnyor
John I J. llcyliurn l'V former Assistant Director of Public Safety Timothy
O'Lrarj, who socks to recover $300 with Interest from December 3, 1913. In
his stutcment of chiini O'Lcury sets forth thnt the defendant requested a loan
of J300. promising to rcpny ln n few days. This, he snys. the deceased Mayor
i fulled to do.
GOULDS BEGIN SUIT TO COLLECT 51,711,000 ON NOTES
NEW VOIIK, .Ian. 1, (Jeoigo .1, liouhl began suit today In the Supremo
Court against the Tonus nm! I'.uillr Railroad Company to recover $1,741,000
on promissory notes. These notes nro hold by tho plaintiff nnd by Edwin
Could, Helen Oouhl Shcpnnl and Howard Gould as eccutots of tho estate of
their fntlier, the late Jay Gould. .
EXILED SERB KING EXPECTS EARLY TRIUMPH
.SALONICA, Jan. -1. "The day will come when wo slinll sec right triumph
over tyranny, and perhaps that day's dawning Ik not fnr off."
King Peter, tho nged ruler of Soibla. who Is now a mnnnrcli without n
country, made, thnt declaration today. Ho lias been conllned to Ills room
with rheumatism since Ills nrrlvnl here.
"My trip here has no political significance," continued King Peter. "I
came hero for tho m1o purpose of seeing anil comforting my soldiers and
telling them that tlioy havo not been forgotten by their our King, who has
not yet lost hope of seeing tho Serbian forces triumphant again." ,
DR. NEWHALL, WOUNDED IN FRANCE, RECOVERING
Dr. Georgo W. Newhall, a well-kndwu physician of this city, who was
wounded In France while, serving with, tho American Ambulance Corps," la
recovering, nt the homo of Sir Thomas Potigms, In IJucJstrighnm place, London?
according to n dispatch received by Mrs. Newhall today. Doctor Newhall
was wounded In tho kneo nnd hip. Ho Is a grfldunto of Jefferson Medical Col
lege and lived at tho Nnrmnndlc before going to Europe. Mrs. Newhall la at
present living in lSuj otitic. N. J.
PRUSSIAN CASUALTIES NOW TOTAL 2,31G,3G6
ItOTTL'IlDAM, Jnn. 4. Tho latest 10 Prussian casualty lists contain 23,283
names. The total in killed, wounded nnd missing now is 2,310, 3CC.
BRITISH SEIZE KAMERUN POST; DRIVE GERMANS-BACK
LONDON, Jan. 4. A British olllclal report from Kamerun, German Equa
torial Africa, says that Yaunde, a governmental station, was occupied January 1.
Tho stntement rends: "On Jnnunry 1 a British force under Colonel Gorges
occupied Ynundo (Jaundo), in Kamerun. Tho enemy jetrcatcd to tho south and
southeast. Our troops aie In contact with the enemy's rear guard. The Ger
man Government officials fled from Ynundo."
KING CONSTANTINE BETTER; GERMAN DOCTORS LEAVE
1A IMS, Jan. 4. A Haras dispatch from Athens bays that tho German physi
cians of King Constantlne Professor Kraus, of Herlln, nnd Professor ElselbcrgT,
of Vienna are leaving today on board a torpedoboat. Tho physicians an
nounced thnt tho King's condition was most satisfactory.
GREEK PARLIAMENT CALLED TO MEET JANUARY 17
PAIMS, Jan. 4. A dispatch to the Havas Agency from Athens says: "It is
announced that the Chamber of Deputies lias been convoked for January 17,
a week earlier than previously hud been Intended. King Constantino Nmself
will open tho session. The Greek Government through the Prefect of Salonlca
has sent an address of welcome to King Peter of .Serbia. The newspnpera empha
size the Inlluonce that tho sojourn of the Serbian King is likely to have on the
relations of Greece with tho Entente Powers. All tho newspapers say the situ
ation between tho Entento Allies and Greece Is obviously Improving."
TURKS REPULSE CRUISER ATTACK AT GALLIPOLI
LONDON. Jan. 4. Artillery and bomb lighting is proceeding vigorously on
tho Gallipot! Peninsula, where the Turks uro trying to overwhelm the remain
ing forces of tho Allies at Sodul-Hahr. The Turks report the repulse of a
cruiser and a monitor which took part In tho engagement. "Near Sedul-Bahr
urtlllery nnd bomb lighting Is proceeding actively." says a Turkish official state
ment. "A cruiser and a monitor which participated jn tho engagement wero
obliged to retreat. An enemy monitor unsuccessfully shelled our batteries for
an hour. A Turkish hydroplane dropped bombs on tho enemy's camp near
Sedul-Bahr. ' Our batteries on tho Dardanelles successfully shelled tho enemy'
works at Sedul-Bahr, destroying a number of storehouses."
$2;000,000,000 LENT BY BRITAIN TO ALLIES
LONDON, Jan. 4. It is estimated that In the last year Great Britain has
advanced 400.000,000 ($2,000,000,000) to the Allies. &ays the parliamentary
correspondent of the Chronicle. Sir John Simon will issue a statement today
explaining his reasons for retiring from tho Cabinet. No other resignations of
Ministers are expected.
RUSSIA TO CONTINUE VODKA BAN AFTER WAR
PETHOGUAD, Jan. 4. Hussla's renunciation of vodka is to bo maintained
after tho war. Replying to tho exhortations of several members of the Budget
Committee of the Duma, Finance Minister Bark declared the Government in
tends promoting sobriety after the restoration of peace, and that a return to tha
former state of things would be impossible. Ho added that a bill to restrain
drinking had been favorably considered by the Council of Ministers and that the.
absolute prohibition of vodka would bo in accordance with the wishes of tha
highest authority.
FRENCH AIRCRAFT, AS AMBULANCES, CARRY WOUNDED
PAIUS, Jan. 4. Aeroplanes were used for ambulance work for the first time
on record during the retreat from Serbia by tho French military missions, pays
Henri Barbey, a war correspondent of the Journal. The Balkan mission was at
Trlsrend. There were a number of sick persons. It was impossible to carry them
on btretohers, but it was determined not to abandon them. Tho French stili ha4
six aeroplanes. They had been exposed to rain and snow for two months, but
were in -working order. Colonel Fournler plaped on these aeroplanes the mm
whose condition was most grave and sent them by air to Scutari.
KING OF SAXONY MAY ABDICATE
PARIS, Jan. 4. "A report Is current that King Frederick August of Saxony
Is considering the idea of abdicating In favor of his, eldest son. PrtngpiGeoiae,"
ays the Journal, ln a dispatch from Basel, "owing- to the stoj5s ubcontaut
of the population."
NEWS
ESTATE FOR 300 LOAN
l
i-''iJHri -JCm iiiiiflfaMt
--. -se-ja-t-
