A BOLT everybody who ?s really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30.000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
THE HERALD guarantees full money? \*t*drtii to
the purchaser of ? very article ( not exceeding
$50.00 in price) advertised m thr display column*
of this paper by any Washington itverchaBt
NO. 8367.
WEATHER?FAIR.
WASHINGTON. D. C. Tl JESDAY, JANUARY 4. 191(5.
ONE CENT.
SINGLE MONETARY PLAN
FOR AMERICAN NATIONS
ADVOCATED BY BRYAN
Former Premier Also Explains to Scientific
Congress System for Cabling of Deposits
Made to Cover Foreign Purchases.
URGES EXCHANGE OF TEACHERS
Commoner Would Have Spanish Taught in Schools?De
clares No Possible Advantage Could Accrue to U. S.
from Forcible Settlement of European Troubles.
At the opening of the second ?nd fin?) week of the sessions of the Pan
American Scientific Congress yesterday, the attention of the delegates was
focused on the practical problems confronting the development of the pan
American i?e?.
Prominent speakers, inventors, and scientists discussed trade relations,
monetary conditions, merchant marine, and other subjects of interest common
to th? republics of the Americas before the various sections.
Addres?es on these topics were delivered by William Jennings Bryan,
former Secretary of State; A. Santos Dumont. pioneer Brazilian aeronaut;
George E. Roberts, of the National City Bank of New York; Lewis Nixon and
John Bassett Moore.
A closer alliance of the countries of the Western Hemisphere looking to
a ?trite aa la now disrupting the euun
trlea of Europe, and resultine In financial
benefit thronen uniformity ot cuatoma,
lancuacs and understanding, aras the
undercurrent ninnine thronen Ute sue
eeition advanced by the various speakers.
'?-,?.i.l.-n: Will ??.-.?.
The suggeartions win be embodied tn
forma of resolution? and presented to
the ??oneress before its close, by the
executive committee appointed yeeter
ilay at a meetine of the executive board.
The deliberative phase of the cenere??
practlcaally will be broucht tara close on
Thursday nicht, when President Wilson
st ill address the delecatea at the Pan
tm.Tk.an Union Buildlnc.
In hla address on "Co-operation" bay.
fore the ?ubaectlon on commercial edu
cation at the Pan-American Union Build
lnc Mr Bryan appealed to the repre
-???liij.e, ?? Use faajsth ami Osait rpl,
Aisssn scan republics and to the people of
the United State? to encourage the teach
ing ot Knellah in the lm tin- American
??boots and the teaching of Spanish in
the school? of this country.
"Co-operation" is the crowing word of
the twentieth century, said Mr. Bryan,
and everywhere there is a noticeable
tendency on the part of Individuals and
nations to act together in matters of
mutual concern.
Mr. Bryan suggested that professors be
exchanged if arrangements could be per
fected whereby the colleges and unlver
altiea of Latin America would accept
American instructors In return for the
Laxtin tnatrtactore aent to the United
States.
The necesaity of co-operation between
the United States and South and Cen- '?
trai America has been made more
obvious, the speaker said, by the Inter
ruption of existing tines of transporta
tion through the opening of the P:
Canal. In the matter of establishment
trade routes.
?aastarr Plan I rmrm.
The establishment of a uniform mone
tary system throughout the Americans
was also pointed out by Mr. Bryan aa
one of the essentials to International co
operation. He ?aid that he knew of a
republic that waa compelled to pay 22 per
cent interest to aecure money for pub
lic Improvement, but this condition has
been alleviated somewhat by the es
tablishment if branch banka In foreign
lands.
To facilitate the quick establishment
of exchance, he suggested that th?
American covernment effect an arrange
ment wtth the Latin republics under
which they could cable to each other
deposits made with them to cower forelcn
paire hase a.
Discussine the plan now under consid
eration by the countrtea of the Western
Himlsphere for the settlement of all dis
putes by arbitration. Mr. Bryan declared
that the united States cannot Join In set
tling the dispute? in Europe without aur
rendertng the rieht to alone determine
CONTtrlC??? ON PAOB TWO.
Panama
iient o?r
Guaranteeing a
Price Limit
of $50.00
?"1 HE price limit of feat? is
* made in the paper's rsersonal
guarantee appearing in the right
"ear" at the top of this page.
alongside The HERALD name
plate, simply in order^to confine
the censorship to articles that
can be properly appraised by the
average merchandising man em
plojed on a newspaper advertis
ing staff. Should any case arise
outside the $50.00 guarantee fig
ure. The HERALD can be de
pended upon to exert itself in the
interest of the reader Also this
paper ?ill take immediate steps
to make impossible a recurrence
? i an, .ud? advertising.
Explosion Kills
11 on Oil Ship
Two Others Dying from Inju
ries Received on the
Tanker Aztec.
Special to Tha Wubinfftoc- Herald.
New York, Jan. ??.-Two men were killed
tn a terrific explosion aboard the oil
tanker A*t- today. Two other? are
dying In a Brooklyn Hospital. Nine are
missing. It 1? believed they -are dead,
buried In the heart of the wrecked ship.
Fire Marshal TlWnaa Brophf ?aay? the
Aztec wa snot biown up by an Incendiary.
?G? mart? as eiiit^rt?fe r? InvertigatU-Tt to
day aa was possible. At Ita end he de
clared he believed the explosion was due
to fases accumulated in the crevices
about the oil tanks aifl in the bilges.
A more searching inquiry will be ma-de
tomorrow morning.
The Axtec was laid up fo' repairs In
the Robins drydock and repair company's
yard. She arrived here December 2-i
from Bordeaux, where she had carried
a cargo of gasoline and petroleum.
ASSERTS ROUMANIA WILL
FIGHT WITH THE ALLIES
Liberal Party Leader Wants His Coun
try to "Help Chastise the
Germans.
Hr TAKK JOMKSCl.
(Former Minister of th? Interior of
Roumanla and Now leader of th?
Liberal Party.)
Special Cable to Th? WaaUna-Ioa Beni?.
Bucharest, Jan. S.?Belonging to the
opposition I cannot tell definitely what
Roumania'a official action will be. But I
can expresa this nation's will and the
probabilities of the future.
Roumanla can never light with the
Germana. A few maniacs and wretches
bough! by the Teutons malte a lot of
noise, but no government could force the
Roumanians to fleht side by ?Ide with
the Magyar?. The tmpoMibillty of thl?
will be surer because Russia has pulled
round marvelously and is preparing for
midable armies.
Roumanians of common sense know
that our national unity an?? honor
will compel ua to flght with the quad
ruple allie??, whose victory Is certain.
My country must embark on a war
against her secular enemies atop a
wav? of enthusiasm. The half million
men forming our field army would
exercise serious pressure on the Ger
manic Un? of communication. It
would shorten the resistance of Ger
many, who already is condemned to
defeat. The enemy of the human race,
she merits punishment. I hope and
believe? my country will share In the
infliction of this chastisement.
poucemapTslashed to
death at dance hau
Special Officer Killed When He At
tempts to Arrest Colored
Mao at Ball.
George Norria, C, colored, a special po
llcemau. was slashed to death in a dance
hall over M Eighth street southeast this
morning. He died on an operating table
in Casualty Hospital from loss of blood.
Police #?? holding Daniel Tolllver, ?.
I colored, for the murrte?
Nori-ls was employed ?s a special po
liceman at a dan?-e managed by Herbert
Brown and Lewis Thomas, colored.
About 400 people, mostly colored, were
present Norria was attempting to ar
rest Tolllver for disorderly conduct when
the latter drew a knife. It ,.-? alleged, and
cut Norrl?. The siash wa? about a foot
tn length aerose hl? abdomen. Norria
lived fifteen minutes.
Ill? Savlejta Itarak. IBI? I ajelatiaaa
Savinga Club. Classes* ?c, iOc. (1, and ?3.
?Adv,
-?-,-?,
PROGRAM FOR TODAY
Woman's Conference, Conti
nental Hall, mornlne.
Special meetings:
Section !?Carn?ele Institution,
afternoon
Section 3?The Raleigh, morn
ing and afternoon.
Section 4?? an-American
Union, momlnrr and afternoon.
Section 5?The Italelgh, morn
ing and afternoon.
Section ?.?The Shoreham, morn
ing and afternoon
Section 7?The Raleigh, ?morn
ing ?and afternoon.
Section 8?The New Ebbitt.
morning and afternoon.
8ectlon !>?The New Willard,
morning and Afternoon.
Exhibition with a Bleriot mon
oplane on the White Lot by Juan
Donienjox, afternoon.
Reception to member* of the
congress by trustees of Carn?elo
Institution. Sixteenth and ?
street?, 9 p. m.
3,000,000 MEN
IN DEATH GRIPS
Great Battle in Bessarabia
Raging with Advantage
to Neither Side.
VON MACKENSEN IS HURRIED
TO AID OF THE AUSTRIANS
Tremendous Russian Attempts to
Break Lines All Repulsed,
Vienna Claims.
Special Cable to The Wsatrtnttsn Herald.
London. Jan. 3.?Field Marshal von
Mackensen has been hastily withdrawn
? from Serbia to take command ot the
i hard-pressed Austrians on the Beesara
I Man front atrcordlng to a Petrograd die
patch to the Ttmea.
So far, the Vienna war office officially
reports, the Austrian Unes are holding,
despite fierce attacks by great masses of
Russians.
The Russian oCenslve Is centered in
the Toporoutx district. Gen. Ivanoff Is
reported to ha?e more than 1.500,<XW men
at his command, together with vast sup
plies of heavy guns and ammunition, re-,
rmrv*.: fronV ?tlie t'elted'ftate?. Knirtanrl
and Japan. The Russian attack.? are be
I ing made by entire divisions In dense
formation,
? -iBhtlna Ritter. Vienna Reporta.
Including aererai German division?
withdrawn from the Balkans to meet the
new Russian drive, the Teutons are re
' ported In Petrograd advices to have be
I tween l,C00.0t*r) and 1..G>1?.?0? men on the
I 200-mile front between the Pripet and the
Roumanian frontier. The Austrian offi
cial report tonight saya:
"On the Bessarabian front bitter fight- I
ing continues. The Russians have made !
the utmost efforts to break through the
Austro-Hungnrlan frontier. 1n the Topo
raoutz dlatrict, but all their attempts j
failed. We have captured three Russian
officers and SW men,
The present great battle is said to
have been the result of two offensive
movements which clashed. The Rus
sian.? for weeks had been preparing for
an offensive in Pessarabia and Eastern
Galicia and concentrated a great army
and vast stores of ammunition on a
comparatively short front.
It was their design to threaten the
Balkan operations of the Austro-Ger
mane by a well timed smash at the front
in western Russia and eastern Galicia.
Two (?real Offenalse? Claan.
Meantime the Austrians and Germans,
feeling the necessity of straightening and
re-enforcing their lines against a pos
sible Russian offensive, opened an of
fensive. The two movements collided
and Sne present tremendous struggle Is
the result. All advices reaching here
show that the Russians so far have made
some considerable advances, especially in
the Strypa River district
HINDU PRINCE'S JEWELS
ARE LOST ON THE PERSIA
Maharajah of Kapurthala's Suite Were
Passengers, Fate Unknown, on
Torpedoed Steamer.
Hrweial Cable to The Weshinrton Herald.
linden, Jan. 3?The suite of his royal
highness. JagatJIt Singh, Maharajah of
Kapurthala, were passengers on the I
.?teamsbtp Persia, sunk on Its way toj
Bombay. A dispatch from Cairo states
that the Maharajah s famous Jewels were
lost with the ship, but gives no further
indications of the fato of the members
of his party.
With the Maharajah's party when he
arrived in England from New Tork in
August last was Miss Margaret Cullen, !
a young American woman whom the
Indian prince and princess had met In a,
Western city and induced to accompany
them to Indla
The Maharajah was waiting at Porti
Said to Join the ship and continue his
Journey to India, accompanied by his I
suite. It Is assumed that his wife, who ?
was formerly Anita Delgado, a Spanish!
dancing girl, was walling with him at I
Port Said and that Miss Cullen was with !
them.
The Maharajah of Kapurthala la one ?
of the richest prince? of India. While he1
waa traveling In the United States last I
June a strong box said to contain 1??,???{
in credits was stolen from him In a Salti
Lake hotel, but was recovered.
Four More Vestjels Are Sunk
In Water? of Mediterranean
Geelong, Peninsular and Oriental Liner, Is Latest Victim
of Warfare?Attacks May Cause Japan to Send
Squadron to Furnish Protection.
Special Ceoie to The W??hin?l'Ki HersM. j
???-???. Jan. 3.?The Geeloiig, anoiherj
Peninsular and Orientai liner, ha? been
?unk In the M?diter ranean. All uboaril
were saved. Bhe was a ateel ship of 7.H51
tons, practically the ?am?? ?Ixe h? lhe
Persia. She wa? built for the Blue An
chor Une in 1904, and taken over by the
Peninsular and Oriental for the Aus
tralian service. She wa? scheduled to
cruise by way of the Cape. How ?he
happened to be In the Medlteiranean ha?
not been explained.
The news of the Geelons ? loa? caire
as the climax of 11 day of disastrous re
ports from Mediterranean shipping- The
losses heard of today Include IresUle? the
Peninsular and oriental Iroat the foilow
Ing:
Tile Glengyle. owned by the Glen Line,
of Glasgow, sunk en route from
Shanghai.
The St. Oswald, of the Brltlah ?nd
Pore) ? ? ttU-uinship Company, oui of Alex j
andrta.
The Kankoku Maru, owned by the Iniri
Gomel ' KhiM.ii 8h!ppin*; t'om. any of
Japan, wltl? a cargo of hemp from Ma
nila for Italy and Kngland
A Tokyo dispatt-h says announcement
is made by the newspaper Jlji Shim co
that a squadron of Japanese warships
will sail for the Su*-* ranal. It Is as?
Huroed thai this Is fur the protection of
Japan? se shipping. *e the result of the!
loas uf Japanese-owned vessels In the,
Mediterranean.
Of the loases ici>orled today the moat
disastrous from a Unanclal vlewpoi.it la
the Glengyl. ?She Is the biggest merchant
veasel lost since the Arab!??.
Her passengers and crew, numbering,
altogether about 130. were saved, with tbe
exception of three Kuropeans and seven ?
Chinese. The survivors landed at Malta!
Officials of the Glen Une announced,
that there were no Americana aboard.
Calls the Ford Peace Party
A "Voyaging Lunatic ?\sylum"
Denmark Kind to Pacifists in Not Permitting Them to Talk,
Says George Brandes?Their Leader an Optimist, There
fore Ineffective?World Growing More Stupid.
H> HKHM A>> HfcltSTKIV.
?Special rkW?. to Tb* Waiiiiogloo HtrmM.
Copenhagen, Jan. 3.?I have Just had
an Interview with the world's foremost
critic, George Brandes.
"Why has Denmark prohibited the
meetings of the Ford Peace party f* I
a-iked him.
"Denmark's position Is extremr)>
delicate." Dr. Brandes replied. "She
cannot afford to do any blundering,
and ahe feared that a violation of neu
trality or a Danish demonstration at
the Ford peace meeting? might he mis
construed, v * i^" . ?,
"But Oen mark Is realty kind to the
Kord party in not allowing them meet
ings, because the Kord party has noth
ing to aay more than common-places
about peace, humanity and Justice.
?Ml sensible people want peace. I re
gard the Ford party as a voyaging
lunatic asylum.
Optimism Hinder* Pronr-ra*.
"Humanity Is growing more stupid
every day and cruelty is ever increas
ing. We are reproached with not be
ing optimistic. In America optimism
is regarded a? the greatest quality and
symptom of clvlllxation and progress,!
but optimism checks progress by hin-?
dering the straggle against injustice |
"Ford Is an optimist, therefore he Uj
ineffective. I cannot understand why he
did not see Sir Edward Grey. Von Beth
mann-Hollweg and the ?other diplomat
ists. He would then learn the situation
"Ford's leaving eecrtstly made the ex
pedition still more ridiculous, but the re
sults would have been the same. The
.situation would not have been affected in |
any event except to hinder the peace
Mea. for now jteople will smile whenever1
peace is mentioned. \
DENOUNCE NEW HAVEN
DEALS AS "GAMBLING"
"Check Kiting" Also a Term Used by
Government Counsel in
Summing Up.
New York, Jan. ?1?"Gambling" and !
"check-kiting" were terms applied to |
alleged New Haven Railroad activities
today during the summing up of govern
ment
trial.
"Buying up competition with watered
? stock Is nothing but gambling with the
stockholders' money." declared Jamee
W. Oeborne. "It is the ?ame as If the
directors gambled It on a roulette ;
wheel. It is a bet that no one will!
renew the competition. They tried It In I
the eaae of the Joy Line, lost their bet '
and had to buy the Hn-'-."
"The only defense offered to the Met- ]
lopottt-an Steamship Company situation,"
said KTank W. Swacker. "Is that Kdward |
: D. Robblns carried on this transaction ?
on hts own hook. If that were so. why!
did he go through all these subterranean I
channels to hide it? Why did he make
sixteen transactions at banks in one day
; to pass $1..'40,000? That is what I call
check-kiting."
"The defendants seemed to think they
owned the New England territory." said
R. P. Stephenson. who dealt with the
New Haven's trolley acquisitions.
R. I?, Bates, the fourth of the govern
ment lawyers, will conclude the summing
un on Thursdav Tomorrow and Wednes
day will be used by defendants' counsel
to argue to the jury.
Russia To Be "Dry" For Keeps.
Petrogr.ad. Jan. *.? Russia's renuncia
tfon of vodka is to be maintained after !
the war. Replying to questions of the
Duma, Finance Minister Rark declared
that the government Intends promoting
sobriety after the restoration of peace
and that a return to the former state of
things would be impossible. At tempts
will be made to utilise a portion of the
stock of alcohol In the hands of the
government for the manufactura of syn''
thetic rubber?
"I always belie\ed American million
alres were clever end understood h'Jnun
nature, otherwise they would be deceived
by their lieuten-nts, but Kord puzzl??? me.
If a premium were to L?e awarded for
stupidity, Denmark could vertir? Jt, bet
we have no men ao naive aa Ford"
Mlrnrlr < ?iuIiIm'( Save Kiprtilllon.
New Vork, Jan. 3?Henry For.., return
ed to l>etroit tonight to complete plana
! for an active political propaganda against
j national preparedness. Whether Mr.
< Ford will become personally active In a
' fleht *.a*inrt President WQeon or famtt*
fuiut? io carry alotig the propaganda has
yet to be determined
In an interview the peace advocate
gave a broad hint as to his plans Reit
erating thai hi? peacv seed ha? fallvn
upon good ground In Europe and result*;
may be expected later, Mr. Ford left
handedty paid hla compliments to the
American government.
"Did you return to America to try to
act official backing for your plan?" he
was abked.
"No," was the reply. "I think that the
official? are the weakest of the lot
They're afraid of their jobs. That's why
they do nothing for peace. That's what
I told them In Norway."
"Do you include the Washington offi
cials in your condemnation?"
"Fix it any way you like?you will.
anyhow," was the rejoinder
That William Jennings Bryan will play
some part in the plans that .ire being
( onsidered is certain, though Mr. Ford
today sought to convey the impression
that no significance attached to the con
ference he and Mr, Bryan held at the
, Waldorf Sunday night.
KAISER'S SUMMER HOME
SEIZED FOR A HOSPITAL
British Notify Greece that "Villa Achil
leion" Will Be Occupied by
the Allies.
I laondon, Jan. 3.?The British govern
ment has notified Greece that the
Kaiser's summer residence, "Villa
Achilleion," on the Island of Corfu, will
be taken by the allies to use as a hos
pital, according to a Central News dis
patch from Athens.
Emperor William purchased "Villa*
AchlUelon" from the heirs of the late
Empress Elizabeth of Austria.
The villa itself ts a marble palace.
Over the gateway is the word "Achil
leion" as the villa was dedicated by
Empress Elizabeth to Achille?, who, she
?aid, was to her the personification of
the hellenlc soul. The island of Corfu
belongs to Greece. It is about twelve
hours by sea frotn Brindisi, the south
ern Italian port, and Is one of the show
places of the Mediterranean. The King
of Greece also has a summer home there.
HUSBA*aHT) COMMITS SUICIDE.
Kran?. Usraroarlta, l*r?i|irlrt*-,r of
Ciliar Store, l.nd. I.tfr ?It? I.a?.
Krank t.ergowitx, 25, proprietor of
a cigar atore at 74 w ?treet, over
which he lived, committed aulcide in
hie home last night with illuminating
ga.?. When relative? found hint, he
wan holding a gaa tube In hia teeth.
It ia said. Coroner Nevltt believed
he wa? discouraged over business
trouble.
?jergowit? yesterday morning told
hi? wife to vlait with relative? during
the day. She returned to the houa?
last night and found the llfeleaa body
of her hueband.
Glasgow Labor Paper Seised.
Glasgow. Jan. 3?The labor paper For
ward ha* been seised.
L'alea S??!.?;* Usata. Iti? < arista,??
Saving? Club. Classes 5c, 6trc. .1, and ?2,
GREEK DEMAHD OS ?LIIES.
? Ir Iras?? i?f 4 URIill \rreiietl ? t 0*1
wnLkl < allfd K?r, llrrlln Na>?.
? ?-rial Cm??f to Th* 'TBi4ti?1nl BoaM.
Berlin, Jan. 3.?"The Greek government
la obliged to prbtcat against this most
flagrant and inhuman violation of Greek
sovereignty committed under a complete
disregard of traditional habits of tbe
diplomatic right of asylum and of tbe
must elementary courtesy."
This is part of the sharp note of pro
test directed by the Greek sovernment ti
the entente powers over the arreat of the
?Jennan. Austrian. Turkish and Bulga
rian consults at Saloniki, ar? ordine to tbe
sem!-offici?; Transocean News Bureau
Having protested against the seixure of
the consul*, the Greek government for
mally demands that they h* released- th**
Transocean Bureau saya
PERSIA ARMED,
OWNERS ADMIT
Eleven AcJditional Survivors
Are Reported Landed
at Malta.
CAN THROW NO NEW LIGHT
ON DETAILS OF DISASTER
U. S. Cornili McNeely Un-Joubtedly
Among the 300 or More Now
Believed Lo?t.
Speci?! Ota? to Tb? Wutunrto? Herald.
l-ondon. Jan. 5?The ateamahlp 1'i-rsia
waa armed. Her owner?, the Peninsular
?nd Oriental Steam Nav-la-ation Can
pan?-, admitted thia today
Eleven additional ?urvtvora have been
reported. Thl? little band landed at
Malta. It Included lx>rd Montagu, of
Be&ulteu. and three other paaseng-era and
?even Lasccrs of th? ?hip's rompen?.
Thrre Is a poasibillty that others escaped.
In addition to the four boats wtioee oc
cupant? wer? picked up by a mine aweep
er and taken to Alexandria, another llfe
boat w a? seen auuth of the ?cene of the
? ?reck. With ?4?d hick It ?hould hav?
! landed 4M1 the north coast of Afrii-a.
None of the &ur?'lvors saw a submarine
before the e-cpioeion. The 4>nly teeti
mony to support the theory that tin
| Persia was torpedoed la that of a ?hi? ?
; ortlce-r, who aay? he aaw a ripple
One hundred hour* aflfr tike wrack ae
; tall? are unaatia-factorr ?oA fraSBMBtary
! ??-en the loa? of life remain? doubtful.
; The paaaenirer Met numbered more than
i 300. The crew ?aa? between 300 and *?*'
The eleven ? urvtvors landed ?t ?f?lt?
bring the total of saved to 5?* It would
appear, therefore, that about *V were
loot. It may be several d?ya before the
exact fl?rures are obtained
There arpear? no lonarer to be ?round
for hope that l'nited State? i:onaul Rob
ert N. McNeely escaped Four day? o(
?lleni-e ?re ?r-cpted tr establishing hir
i??? beyond question.
President's Train
Due Early Today
Returns to Capital Be-cause of
Serious International
Situation.
??recial to The ***f?Aii??*toti Herald.
Aboard President Wilson'? Train. <"????
Inrton. Va.. Jan. 3.?Hie honeymoon cut
?hort, President Wilson tonight 1? hurry
ins back to Washington to aaaume active
chartte of an Increasingly complicated
International situation. The President
?nd Mr? Wilson left Hot Spring? ?t 8:*
o'4-l4-tck In a private car attached to a
Jerky little mountain train.
At Coving-ton, a Junction point, a two
hour wait we? experienced until the reg
ular train from the West could arrive
and pick up the car. The traie ia ached
uled to arrive In Washington about ".
o'clock in the momln-*;.
The decision to cut short the honey
moon was reached hurriedly, after wire
communication with the Whit? Houae
and State Department, and but fot* in
ability to secure a train the President
would have left during th? day.
President Wllaon remained In cloae
touch with affairs at the Capitol t??da>.
Late In the afternoon he and Mra Wil
son went for an hour's motor ride. tTnon
his return, the President walked through
the crowded lounge (?f the hotel and per
sonally thajiked the management for tke
courtesies extendeii his party.
SAY KAISER IS GRAVELY ILL
Sv-rlas Repon* Hrltfntp That He
1? Afflicted With faarrr.
"periti Cable to Tbe Washington HcrwM.
Geneva. Jan. 3.?Traveler? arriving from
Germany today reiterated reports that
Emperor William, of Germany, wa*
seriously ill They aald it "wmm -common
j report? In Berlin that the specialista car
ine for the Kaiser had disagreed over
the nature of his malady, but had Anally
'agreed that a severe operation ??a*
neceaaary.
Hts ailment, they a?aert?*d. ia of a
cancerous natur* a::d affects the throat
and mouth, making It iropoeslble for the
Kaiaer to take solid food. One report
in Berlin, according to the traveler?, la
that a cancerous growth haa attacked
the Kaiser's lips, mah ing neceaaary an
operation that will scar him for life
Te My ratr????!
Many thanks for paat favori, and
w fall ing you ?ill a happy and pro? par
ome New Year. Ernst Gerate nberg.
1343 Pennaylvania avenue. ?Betabliebed
?U??.??A4v.
GRAVE ISSUE RAISED
OVER THE FACT THAT
PERSIA WAS ARMED
Nation Responsible for Torpedoing Vessel
May Insist That Action Was Justified
Under International Law.
AT VARIANCE WITH U. S. VIEW
This Country Takes Position that Merchantmen May Carry
Guns for Defense?Austrian Charge Ask* Department
Officials to Reserve Judgment.
! he ?inking of the Bntisr passenger steamship Persia, at tht cosai of
Crete., with the los* of American life ha? brought on r run? ertsw in the inrta??!
relation? of this government.
Indication? last night were that it m?> become more aersrau? than any thai
has preceded it
Official confirmation thai the Persia earned a: least on* ' 47h?*c> gui
first reported in presi dispatches from Europe, ha? m-ected an ?*se*?e-T*t erf th?
utmost gravity into the situation. ?
This was brought out by statement.? ir the highest toretgr dipsomatK
Quarters, that Germany and Au.??.? hold that their ?g eemeoli te give warning
to passenger >easels ?nd provide for the safety ot ali on board ?c not aprslv
in Cs?-e* where the vessels gre armed.
The intimation wa? plain that if H 1*4
proved the Persia, va? sunk by a sub
marine, the government rea pon albir will
Insist that th? art?on ?a? ; unified
laaaf Ma> Be ?herpl? Driwa.
Th? position of tbe United States has
been that a merchant vessel might carry
a few runs of six-tech caliber, mounted
in the stern, for tbe purposes of defense I
without changing its character. If the
I 'ntted State? maintain? tfaia position,
the two government? win be far apart
on the Issue.
President Wilson is hurrying back to
Washington from hi? honeymoon star a.t
Hot Springs. Va*, to Lake personal charge
of the situation He wtll arrive at 7
o'clock this morning, and after a confer -
ene? with Secretar> of Stale ?aiiivi
wiU decide w bather to cai an lmnf?*-d.ai*
meeting of th? Cabinet
In the m?nriim. th? State l>epertment
tv mi?king every ef?or' \t aa? retain d*?ff
nlte.y whether tb? Per??.* ?a* m*r.m b-* ?
mine or a subrnarltagj, OooBOl Garrele. at
A irxsndrta, Egypt and otbe* consul? in
the vicinity hav? been ordered to get ef
fldavttf from aX survivor* Ambassador
Penile,d nt Vienna ha* been lnstructe-d
t?"? aak ? the \ esse i was sunk by an Aua
t riar. au bma -Ine.
Baron Zwtedtnek* At^strian .'barge d'Af
faires, called on Secretary l^ansmg yes
terday ?nd asked that this government
withhold judgment until il has aoertained
ah the farte He assured the Secretary
that full aa ti* fact ion will be given If tt
develops that the Persia was sunk by an
Austrian submarine in violation of the
understanding reached by th? two gov
ernments.
State Department officials admitted a
possibility that the I'nited States may be
called upon to tasue a circular note to all
the powers, asking them to subscribe to
the rules of international law governing
submarine warfare. This method is likely
to be adopted if it develops that the Per
sia was sunk by a submarine, and no na
tion acknowledges responsibility for the
attack. Failure to get tbe neceaanry as
surances might result in the United
States breaking off diplomatic relations
with the nstions which refuse
Tbe tact that Robert Hey McNeely.
newly appointed consul at Aden. Arabia,
was among the lost brought suggestions
from Austrian aas) (ser-mas sooroaa tsaata.
moual to latini? ft?? that thaa ????>??
meet was neartlsreat ka ???? asili Im ?? raa
r?assnt?tir? Is ?all on aa armaat w??saa>t
?rhscr. wa? likely to be attssrfced
In rtr? of all tb? <rlitssasstaaK-B?. tas*
Bute Dssaii tina?it has a cVear ?????? of
ths reply Anatri? probably ?rill rasaba. %t
H oeveloTes that tra? Pai ?a? ira? ?unk b?r
an Austrian submarine It la expected
that Austria wUI na?Intasa :
Fsisjt?That th? Persia was as ?astati, thai
tt was a trasrsp ?bin. ?nd was probably
cajrran?? ?alare ?tarrea of ammunition ana
militar, aasnnllui to th? Saaa Panai ra
si?*
Second -That th? caae la not c<is?f?aj
by th* aasuraiior* ?I? en the laltrsl Stiate?
l>> tts? A j'-iii |i,ternrnM r????J ttasa?
sntl y-oTiaauB t?*r th* ?af?** > ?af
tsnal.
Thirst?Trial th* ?t?aat????????/ instantan?
J osa? da*struction o? tb? srnanel exsuM no?
hare hesn causad by a alas?** turn? a a,
and therefor? thee* was Droimaay aa ??
pension In th* held
? ?? ? ? rw. r* by ,.?,-. I.
Th* official ooasllt-matloa that the Panas
carrlad a 4.7 ?run ratm* In a assnfsates?
from Onatsl darr*!? at Alexandria datad
January ? ?* added
"In new of th* fact sanken v?a?i he
1 lava; armed doss th* datasartrrrrnl neasrs?
? the affina? ??..?
; The Slat* I?rp?rtsrveol r?*>Tr?aJ wltk s
csbseirnim IrsMiuetsSaR Mr. Oarress u? ?at
th* ?faVdatrlU of all th* ?-??t?t???. rndaBl
j me the officer? of th? vaaasri.
I Casnaul General Arnold at Cairo, la a
dtassatrh datad January X, mad* th* ?at
? statement that th* Persia wa? Bank by
I a torpedo, and that no ?anini ?.a* a-ts-?
?ML
Indication? that ?Treat t?aaB*aYt??a>r? u at
tached to th? question artae^taer the ?aaa*>
waa ?caned were ?rlwen by a ?in ? la I rasa*
yesterday on Secretary at Mat? Lasnartr*
by Count Macchi 41 Cellar?, th* SMSM
Ambaanador (state aV-pertjseat ..ntr-ial?
adrnltted that th* Ambassado* ciltal *?
obtain from th? ?tate naptu-trrsrert It?
I view aa to" whether or net Marchant
he araaed la?fell)
Indicate? that
not chanced Its
Ms d?claration ?a
aso. that 11n*r? mirkl onrry a few ?li
fnch ?runa
?ALL THE NEWS and
More Special Features
EVERY MORNING
At Less Than Half the Cost
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO
Daily ? . 1 Cent
Sunday, 1 Cent
DAILY AND SUNDAY
BY CARRIER. 30C A MONTH.
SEND IN YOUR ORDER BELOW.
NAME .'.
ADDRESS.
