Bridgeport
.-:-- - ' '
VOL, 52 NO. 3
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
D9INBT0N CO. PLA
IWABUEL OF EFFIC
AND iODERPI I
til
NT
U. julJlLt vLfil fl jiliLj; 111X1 NLUylyMjUi
it
-A
.-.
..
V..
Engine With Uncannily Hu
man Capabilities Almost
Undreamed of By v in
itiated Are Everywhere in
; Vast Plant. '
Wonderful Systems, Magni--.
ficant Welfare Programs,
and Great Development
Plans Are Part of Tremen
dous Manufactory.
f
"thousands of men, "have a-e-
cetved wages for work hn the great
. Itemtng-tan Arms & Ammunition
Ctx's pin Tit., widen has reared Its. walls
from Boston avenna and ' Bond street
- northward to, -Lake view home in less
than a yaar and which now gives
; employment to more than 6,000 resi
dents of this city and vicinity.
Fifty, thousand men are said to
'"have worked in and upon the massive
ft eel and brick structure, yet it is re
lated that less than a. score ' have
made an" entire trip throughput its
miles of sections, which would require
half an hour on a bicycle or on the
, .motor-trucks that are used indoors.
The trip on foot, would require nhimf
i six hours far hasty inspection.
An. aggregate floor area, of 1.53S.-
. 0 0 0 sqqusxe feet is- covered with tons
of metal, machinery and scientific in
struments that approximate v $5000,
000 In -value,, or one-half the estimat
ed value . of the buildings. '
' The hum of machinery blends with
' The flicker of trenchant steel an tha
f lare -of furnaces, gas ovens, the white
tiling of hospitals, and tie aroma of
j estaurant cooking. . -
Beyond the structure ind-nstrlaJ-ism
and reaching' far into the coun-
. tryside.' buildings for housing 1 0,0 0 0
more employes are beginning "to rear
their -walls, farming what wtu be one
of . the most comprehensive ; Indus
trial suburbs that has ever been built
in this .country- ..s
A corps pf expei't engineers and ad
visor a, -- from colleges, the army, the
navy and' itmnrmonth. industri(U con
cerns of this -conntry, is located in
this city helping to nato the Rem
ington product of' world-wide fame,
i A power jlsnt, nlrue in it1 ap
ipo4rttaesnts,. nearly as' large in- ca
pacity as Chat which'fnraislieaV all
light and 'power1 tfc Bridgeport, adds
electricity, . steam. fire protection,
compressed air and ret rigeratuzn in
the iiioewM of manufacture.
' A system that has no equal hi -this
'country has been devised kn thei guard
ing of the Immense 'property, , Issu
ance of passes from .one section of
the branding te another, for 'estimat
ing production, - feeding, the army ,of
-employes and outside workmen,, sorting-
and distributing- mails, scientific
research in testing steel, heat units
in coal. ' and in many other factors
that go to make up the mamtfao-
tore 'of arms. The economy ' of costs,!
sanitation and, welfare of the work
i ers has also been .cared for jnagni-'
When It 5s -considered that the aver
age pax-roll for 6,000 men is approx
imately $110,000 per week and that
this force will be more than doubled
in the coarse .-of ' six- montba it will
be seen -that the Remington Arms &
Ammunition Co. will distribute many
mfttto&Sv jmiiaJly in Bridgeport. 1
- The Remington- Arms & Amnrunl-
lon Oa. is one of three munitionJ
imarax&ctttrtng .concerns owned by the
same interests, .The others are: The
Union : Metallic Cartridge , Co. " . of
Bridgeport and the Remington Arms
& Ammunition Co. -of Illon, N. X- The
Reamlngton-lX. M. C Co. acts as the
distributing' agent for the others, '-i
The officials - of the Remington
Arms & Ammunition Co., who today
.are credited with having devised and
put Into, successful operation the Vast
enterprise are S. F. Pryor, vice-president
and. general manager with of
fices in; New York,' and Major Walter
O- Fenfieldj general . works .manager
.of botli the R. A. & A Co., and" the
R.-tT, M. C, Co. of this city.
' Work on the buildings began Dec
16, . 1914, and was completed the fol
lowing. November. The first machine
vas installed Feb. 4, 1915 since when
nearly 8.000 have been put into use
with nearly one third still to be set.
To equip these machines more than
15,000 tools and fixtures were manu
factured especially.- "
SCIENTIFIC LABOKATOKHS
Threa highly equipped testing lab
oratories are maintained to determine
the i qualities of the. raw materials
" purchased, the progress of operations
.and the economy , of production.'
Two are devoted to testing chemical
and tensile properties of steel, coal
combustion and like tests. ' The Jhird
is a combined photographic and -blueprint
manufacturing- studio of , most
modern design and equipment.
in the TthvsicaJ testing laboratory.
which , occupies about 50 square feet
ef space all , steel is tested for its
strength, elasticity and other qualities.
" Huge Riele testing machines, capable
of pulling apart the toughtest steel an
-inch or more in thickness are in use,
. Every consignment of steel purchas
ed is tested according to the nature
of each, operation to which it wiH be
subjected so that the least possible
quantity of material that may safely
be used for a given pressure, is ac
curately determined.
. In, the chemical laboratory. form
ing k part of the physical testing de
partment other rare . Instruments for
recording the expansion of metals are
in' use. Scales of the minutest ac
curacy Involving new - principles in
poise and which weigh to a fraction of
an atom are used here.
The explosion and test of coal un
der electrolysis and high pressure is a
most interesting feature. The com
pany buys coal upon the basis of
heat units. In this way it does not
pay for waste but the cost is dcter
t Continued on Page .
Mysteries of Huge
' Munitions Concern
Revealed to Public
For the first time since the Rem
ington Arms & Arn munition Co.
began the construction, of its vast
plant oti Boston avenue, it is pos
sible to give through the columns
of The Farmer an adequate idea of
the immensity of the munitions
manufactory. "
The tremendous plant is compos
ed of an amazing gathering of the
most modern machines and , sys
tems, the, existence and capabilities
of -which - scarcely have been
dreamed of by the general public
Much has been conjectured and
many reports have been dissemi
nated about the actual workings
of the plant, but not until now has
it . been possible to obtain a clear,
accurate and comprehensive . re-
I view of what is going on. there. "
-i nc xacxs in fine ranners story
were procured, during an eight mile
journey, requiring many hours,
throughout every building and de
partment of the company.
FjbHT TODAY TO
SAVE WILLIAMS
: - ! - :
FROM GALLOWS
Final Effort Launched At
Hartford to Prevent
Bridgeporter Hanging.
COUNSEIi ALLEGES
JUDGE REED ERRED
Contend That Mistake Was
Made in Ee-Opening Case
In Superior Court..
Before the
which convened, in Hartford today for
.....lumj. term, a nnai effort is be
ing made to sav Isaai ivr -ccrn-n m
7 Liberty street, this city and Harry
SoeJhte etrmpanlon, from, hanging.
Williams and Roe were Convicted,, of
the murder of Hubert B. Case, a coun
ty commissioner and a storekeeper of
oarinamsteo, uneir trial was held in
the superior court of'Litchfi,lrt
The murder .was committed, Nov. 28
Williams was arrested imfti,.
left the Arco theatre in this city, with
a party composed of Jiis wife and some
friends. The state police placed him
under . "arrest. Rom was a st
tPoughkeepsie. Judge Joel Reed sen-
icui;ni mem lu do nangea Dec. g, nut
Gov. Marcus H. Bolcomb trrantoA
stay of execution. : ..
4 Attorney Charles H. Shapiro of this
city and Bernard Higgins. counsel for
the accused, conteva that the judge
erred in re-opening the case after the
prosecution, and the defense rested.
Four ' other errors by the court are
allleged by the -counsel, in the fight
for Williams . life and a last battle is
being made to save him from the gal
lows... -.- . I- .
The record for the snpreihe court m
connection with the cae makes a total
of 550'. pages. ; It contains a, history
of everything that occurred on - the
trial of the men before' Judge Reed
and the Jury. This includes a. recital
of the crime, the testimony of wit
(Con tinned on- Page-11.)
BODY OF FATHER
MOLLOY LIES JN
STATE AJCHURCH
Hundreds of School Children !
Pay Respects to Mein -
ory of Priest.
Accompanied by the immediate
family and a few intimate friends and
vested in the purple - robes . of the
priesthood with crucifix ' clasped in
both hands, the body of Rev. Thomas
J. JHolloy,. son, of Mr. and Mrs. Mich
ael M.Molloy, of ,113 Austin street,
was removed from the 'bereaved resi
dence at & o'clock this afternoon where
it will lie in . state until the solemn
funeral service, which will take place
Wednesday morning at 10:30 o'clock.
. As a mark of esteem and honor for
one of-their Alma Mater, the school
children and the Sisters of the Sa
cred Heart parochial school marched
In a -body from the school to the
church this afternoon and escorted
the body to the altar rail. Prayers
for the dead were then recited for the
deceased priest.
Bishop John J. Nilan arrived in the
city late this afternoon and will at
tend the obsequies tomorrow. The
bishop will pronounce the last absolu
tion. ' A double quartet composed of mem
bers of the Sacred Heart and St.
Augustine's choirs will sing Schmidt's
funeral mass. The Sacred Heart quar
tet is composed of Mrs. R. J. Witter
well, soprano; Miss Marie Legere,
alto; William Chew .tenor, and Jos
eph Unkey, bass. The St. Augus
tine's quartet consists of Miss Aurelia
Berger, soprano; Mrs. F. J. Kelly,
alto; Alfred Brisebois, tenor and John
J.Kennedy," bass. -vl-f, N. J. Her
man will -direct and preside at the
organ.
- . - -
si HE -Jm- 5 illI 11 ,aaS .1 S t 0
1EET -WILD ETWIIIMOE
Assessors Hopelessly Befuddled in Attempt to Meet Demands of Adminis
tration to Keep Tax Rate Below 19 Mills Manufacturers Will Bear
Considerable Share of Increase in Taxable Values.
" With an increase of approximately $25,000,000 in the value placed by Jhe board of asses
sors on Bridgeport's taxable property Bridgeport faces a carnival of extravagance unprece
dented in its history. V V ' -
"Keep the tax rate underli'-mills!" This is the order the administration has issuedl
The board of assessors, 'and expert accountants workifig on the tax lists, have been struggling
with the problem of making both ends meet. ' 7
The administration demands a princely revenue, to be spent in-salaries for its favorites)
and in the buying of miles and miles of Warrenite, without competition from other pave
ment contractors. , " "
But the "semblance of economy must be kej)t up. To that end, the administration, in
stead of levying a 24 mill tax upon a list of $120,000,000, propose to levy a smaller rate up
on a list that will be more than 20 per cent, larger than the last valuation. .
t Thfese 'facts, gradually circulated about City. Hall, today, and ihen spread like wildfire
about the city. 'The chamber of 'commerce was among the firt bodies to. learn .of. the great
boost in, the tax list. '
While the many extravagant schemes
proposed fey the administration boards
had caused, geowiu -eAiwuuuiwu
big- tax rate, It was not known, . until
today,, how the vast revenues were 10
be provided. . . .
The Remington Arms & Ammunition
Co. . and the Union Metallic Cartridge
Co.." distinct corporations with prac
tically a common ownership, will bear
a large .share of the" great increase in
taxes. :. '-
Although the grand list on which
the next tax rate will be levied is
made' up as of Sept.. 1, 1915, and mapy
of the Remington factories were bare-
l-o- hfBTun at that time, these corpora
tions will contribute abou$8,00,0B0 of
the increase. ... g
Other manufacturing . estabUshments
will share in an additional eight mil-.
liens of taxation, and under the head
of machinery and equipment vast en
tries have been made on the tax books
-that will add another four millions.
Increaes have been .made upon real
estate in outlying districts, . awaiting
development or now under develop-
FOUR GANGSTERS
GO TO JAIL FOR
SOUTH END ROW
Youths -Sentenced Because
of Fiht ;in .'.Which By
standers Were Hurt.
As a result of a fight in the South
End in : which five innocent bystand
ers 1 were statDea, iour young men
were given Jai sentences Dy juage
Curtis in the criminal superior court
this morning. ' Sylvester Dipon was
sentenced to one year .in jail; John
Kovasky, eight months;- ITrank Gar
basky, 10 months, and ilgnatz Mosa
ko, 6he year.
It was alleged that on the night
of the crime two rival gangs of for
eism born persons became engaged in
a fight in front of the lunchroom of
Thomas Speer-on West avenue. Wil
liam Carter and Frank O'Neil, who
happened - to be in. -the lunchroom,
went out to see what the trouble was
and they were ' . stabbed. William
Mayforth, William Burnett and Eu
gene Larlcin, who happened to walk
past. Were mistaken for participants
in the argument, and were also stab
bed. None was seriously : hurt. The
accused were allowed to plead guilty
to assault.
NEARLY 3,000,000
OFFER TO EI1LIST
l BRITISH
London, Jan. 4. Lord JDerby's re
cruiting figures for the period between
iOct. 23 and Dec. 15 show that 1,150,000
.unmarried men and 1,673263 married
jnen presented themselves for service.
Of the grand total of 2,829,263 mar
ried and -single men, 103,000 unmarried
and 112,431 married men enlisted Im
mediately. Eight hundred and forty
thousand single men and 1,344,979 mar
ried men were attested for future ser
vice. ,
Of the single .' men 207,000 Were re
jected, while 221,853 married men were
t accepted1 by the recruiting officer.
m0ntf ':lnotor boats have been listed,
and a dozen"' other smaller items have
been scanned with diligence- to' lend to
the general incrta.se. ; - ;
.-. Owners of centrally located prop
erties that bring incomes in rentals
'ate to share In the burden of the In
crease. An intimation of what is to
take place occurred at the last tneet
lng of the advisory committee . on
bonding issues when John iT, King,
chairman of that committee began to
catechise- City Auditor Bernard Keat
ing. Mr. King asked Mr. Keating if
he did not think that there was much
centrally located 'property -in Bridge
port that had been in one ownership
f or-many' years which was not ' as
sessed below its full valuation am?
earning capacity. ' v-
At the same lime the administration
plans to issue bonds for schools, pave
ments, sewers and other public im
provements to the amount" of at least
$1,500,000. ; Tbe assessments on prop
erty are not only , to have the most
phenomenal boost In the history of
DIVORCED BY HIS
CHILD BRiDE, HE
ALLEGES DECEIT
Says Divorce Papers Were
Represented to Him As
Other Documents.
Claiming that his 14-year-old bride
deceived him in regard to - the con
tents of a legal paper, Gustave Dering
of Fairfield visited the superior court
this morning to protest against the di
vorce which was granted to Olga Der
ing last Friday by: Judge Gager.
Dering visited the court in company
wi'th Attorney Paul S. Chapman. The
young husband alleged that when
former Deputy Sheriff Elwood of
Fairfield served the divorce writ, on
him he asked JSIfs. Dering to translate
it because he is unable to read Eng
lish. , Mrs. Dering told her husband,
Dering alleges, that the pajKer simply
meant she wanted her name changed.
He declares he knew nothing about
the divorce until he read in the papers
that the decree had been granted.
His lawyer secured the names of the
witnesses today and a motion may be
made to have the case reopened. Mrs.
Dering v charged her husband with
cruelty, saying that he often beat her
with a 'leather belt.
Governor Approves
. Hospital Budget!?
Hartford, Jan. 4 Governor Hol
comb today approved the following
quarterly appropriation to hospitals:
Memorial, New London, $1,250;
Griffin, Derby, $1,000; St. Mary's,
Waterbury, $1,875; Middlesex, Middle
ton.i, $1,250; New Haven, General,
$2,500; St. Raphael's, New Haven, $2,
125; Bridgeport, $2,500; St. "Vincent's,
Bridgeport, $2,125; New Britain, $1,
250. '
Other bills approved were: Mystic
Oral school $4,593; " Connecticut Col
ony for Epileptics, $2,245; Connec
ticut School for Feeble-Minded, $3,1-01.
HARBOR HAPPENINGS.
The James McWilliams entered
with a tow of 12 loaded barges, six
of which were for this city and six for
New Haven. The Salutation went west
with 12 light boats.
the city but the city Is to be plunged
Into a fearful slough o debt. .,.
" Since 1902 the greatest boosts tc
the grand lists, have been during the
years 1911 and 1912 when the -grand
lisWwas raised more than $8,000,000
for each years. This year,' however,
the list is to receive 'a boost of more
than $25,000,000 at one fell sweep.-
The increases in the grand list since
1902 may be ., gleaned from the f ol-
Year . Grand liist Rate. Increase
1902 $63,236,634 13.3
1903 65,284.095 14.3 $2,057,411
1904 65,706,501 13.5 J, 412,406
1905 69,299,598 15.5 i 2,593,097
1906 70,737,107 15.6 2,437,509
1907 74,818,566 15.6 4,081,459
1908 79,641,956 15.8 4,823,390
1909 85,285.519, 174 6,643,563
1910 90,220,084 17.2 4,934,565
1911 98,484,517 15.4 8.274.433
1912 ' 107,064,084 16.5 8,579,567
1913 112,196,709 19.2 5,132,625
1914 .115,714,279 18. . 3,517,570
(Continued on Paffe 7.)
CIVILIANS JOIN
CHASE IN STREET
AFTER FUGITIVE
Police and Citizens Unite in
Exciting PursuitQuarry
Hits Janitor.
Civilians Joined with ' policemen In
chasing in alleged shoplifter through
the streets in the center of the city
this afternoon. - After several blocks
chase, they rounded up Leo Vennice,
30, of Detroit, at Broad and Cannon
streets.
Vennice, according to clerks in
Grant's store in Main street, was de
tected leaving the store- with an as
sortment of unpaid-for goods bulging
from his pockets. One of the Clerks
chased' him through Main street. v
At Fairfield avenue. Traffic Police
man Al Goulden joined the pursuit
and chased the fugitive west on Fair
field avenue, and through the alley
way in the rear of Rowland's store. -
George Smith, janitor of the Lin
coln building, held up the fugitive
when he emerged on Cannon street.
Vennice "took a swing" at Smith, and
Fred Wren stepped to Smith's assist
ance. Several policeman came up
then and took Vennice to headquar
ters. He is charged with theft and the
detective bureau believes he is want
ed for similar offenses in the West.
i .;
State's Share of
Liquor Revenue Is
Almost $50,000
The state of Connecticut was sent
a check for $49,474 by the county
commissioners today as the state's
share of the revenue received from
ihe sale of liquor licenses in this eity
last month. The state also got $525
from 'the proceeds of the club license
applications.
Licenese money distributed to other
towns and cities in the county was as
follows: Stamford, $2,437.50; Nor
walk, $975; Newtown, $1,309.75;
Huntington, $1,504.75; Fairfield,
$84.50; Darien, $487.50; Westport,
$1,027.35: Stratford, $487.25; Dan-
I bury, $529.75; county, $19,789.60.
Chairmen of Committees on Foreign Relations in
Conference With President on Newest Devel
opment in Submarine Warfare Secretary i
Lansing Aids President in Compiling Data on l
Attack Which Cost American Life-r-Senators I
Preparing Speeches on Matter.
Washington, Jan. 4 Official announcement that the gov-
ciuuiciiu win ttui iii nits newest, pnase oi ine submarine crisis
brought on by the sinking'of the Persia was made today at the
White House. . '
' Secretary Tumulty issued this statement for the President :
"The President and the Secretary of State are taking every
means pbssiblp to obtain the cold facts in this grave matter and
will act just as soon as the information is obtained."
-v In the absence of detailed and specific information on which
to base the next step, President Wilson cancelled the cabinet
meeting which was to have been
Chairman Stone and some members of the Senate foreign rela-
tions committee. ' , j
; Later Chairman Flood of the Houe foreign' affairs commit-j
tee called at the White House and conferred with President Wil-
son on the situation. -? ' i
Chairman Stone told the President there were intimations
that some Senators were preparing to make speeches on the'
sinking of ships with loss of American life. The President is j
understood to have simply replied that the administration was f
doing all-it could to protect American rights. , - I
, The President instructed Secretary Lansing to bring to the
White House any information which came to hand and then'
busied himself reading the official despatches so far received
and getting in touch generally with the situation.
tThe administration is depending largely on the inquiries
which. Ambassador Pkifield has been instructed to mK,-..t
Vienna and that-which consuls are gathering elsewhere, to j
establish the nationality of the submarine which is said to have i
sunk the 'Persia and to develop the facts in the case. 1
Senator Stone told the President that when the foreign re- j
lations committee met tomorrdfw he wanted to be prepared to j
meet any, situation that might arise. The Senator said after his J
talk-with the President that until the'facts regarding the Persia
were obtained nothing could be done. L
' v ' Any nation; he declared, Which outraged the United States,
should be dealt with (severely. .'
Wnite House officials said both the
Senate aiid the House would be kept
informed of all important' develop
ments In the-, f oreign; situation, proba
biy' through conf erences between the
President and Senate and House
leaders. , ' -
There1' was ho indication today of
What the prospects' were for the
United States formally - acquainting
Bulgaria and, Turkey - of its position
on the question of submarine warfare.
President Wilson arrived here at
7:50 a. m. today from Hot Springs,
Va. He went immediately to the
White House to take personal charge
of the situation brought about: by the"
sinking of the British steamer Persia.
- A small crowd had collected at the
railroad station td -see?the President,
but he walked quickly by Without
noticing greetings. The White House
staff was already at work and the
President was quickly acquainted with
the details of the crisis which devel
oped while he was away o.n his honey
moon. -A note from Secretary Lansing
was awaiting-him.
,. Alexandria, Egypt, Jan. 4 Charles
Grant, of Boston, one of the .two
Americans known to have been on
board the British steamship Persia
when she was torpedoed in the Med
iterranean last Thursday, has arrived
in Alexandria. Mr. Grant," so far as
is known,-is the only American from
whom can come the story of the Per
sia's sinking. He gove to The As
sociated Press today the most detailed
account yet received of the disaster.
"I 'was in the dining saloon of the
Persia at 1:05 p. m.," he said. "I
had just finished my soup and , the
steward was asking ' what I would
take for my second course when a
terrific explosion occurred.'
"The saloon became filled with
smoke, broken glass and steam from
the boiler, which appeared to . have
burst. There was no panic on board.
We went on deck as though we were
at drill and reported at the lifeboats
on the starboard side, as the vessel
had listed to port. I " clung to the
railing. The last thing done was to
tie on Captain Sprickley's lifebelt.
, "As the vessel was then listing so
badly that it was impossible , to
launch -the starboard boats I did
down the starboard rail into the wa
ter. I got caught in a rope which
pulled off a shoe but I broke loose
and climbed on some floating wreck
age, to which I clung.
,. "The last I saw of the Persia she
had her bow in the air, five minutes
after the explosion. '
''PERSIA '.'SINKING AFL0ATT
m TJRECECdO'E 4.-.B00RG1
held today but conferred with
Consul-General Skinner at London
today advised the State . Department
that the telegraphic list of survivors
of the torpedoed liner Persia received
there from Alexandria did not include
the name of Robert N. McNeely, but
does include Charles Grant, of Boston.
Eleven survivors, including Lord
Montague, have been landed at Malta.
American Consul Keblinger sends
word that seven Indians of the Per
sia's crew had been clinging to a dam
aged open boat by the steamship
Hingchow. All the men said the Per
sia had been torpedoed without wu.
ing.
ANOTHER SHIP SUNK
London Jan. 4. Although it is re- (
ported -that no lives were lost when the i
Peninsular & Oriental line steamer j
Geelong Was sunk uar-the Mediter-j
ranean, no details are available on- j
cerning her sinking.- The Geelong was j
a sister ship of the steamer Waratah, j
which was lost under mysterious cir-s
cumstances off the African coast in
July, 1909.
"After floating about on the wreck-i
age until 4 o clock in the morning I
saw five boats. I was pulled intOj
one of them. We rowed about look
ing for other stragglers."
"The boats became overloaded' andi
the occupants were redistributed. '
Four boats were tied together by
their painters and the fifth followed 1
some distance away. f !
"My boat left the others in order j
to search the more frequented steam-
ship channels for help. We rowed i
for three hours. Then we saw a I
cruiser and called out:
" 'We are English."
"We explained that we were sur
vivors of the Persia and gave direc- i
tions to the cruisers as to where the i
other boats were. They were soon ,
found and the occupants were taken '
off by the English sailors.
"Robert McNeely, American consul
at Aden, sat at the- same table with,
me on" the voyage. He was not seen,
probably because his cabin was on tha
port side. It was a horrible scene.
The water was black as ink. Some
passengers . were screaming, others
were calling out good-bye. Those in,
one boat sang hymns."
THE WEATHER
Connecticut: fair and warmer to
night; Wednesday .partly cloudy and
warmer. Variable winds, becoming
southerly.
i
X '! ,
