-0 ff
71 IT A THPP
NEW YORK CITY ( fj
Average copper price
week ending Dec.
21 .27.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRE89
VOL. 18, NO. 183.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JANUARY 4, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
4
3?
TWO VIEWS 0
IS
POSSIBLE
Review of Police Court Dock
et in Bisbee Discloses 45.9
per cent Decrease in Arrests
for Year of 1915.
CONDITIONS EXCEP
TIONAL IN DISTRICT
Absence of Legalized Traffic
Has Cost Every Tax Payer
An Increase of 40 Cents on
the $100 Valuation.
Prohibition's first year in Bisbee.
taking the records in the city courts
and the matter of taxes as a criterion,
has cost the people, in the last in
stance, a sum aggregating $16,000, or
an increase of forty cents on every
hundred dollars in valuation, and has,
ostensibly, reduced the number of
arrests in the city, by city officers,
45.9 per cent
A careful survey, however, into the
difference between the two years,
1914 and 1915, brings a number of ex
ceptional conditions into considera
tion and renders bare figures a trifle
disconcerting and unreliable. In the
matter of taxes, alone, and the de
crease in license revenue, with the
absence of legalized saloons, can any
degree of accuracy be arrived at
In the first place, from the first day
or August, 1914. there existed wretched
industrial conditions la Bisbee. The
European war had broken out and
the copper mines of the country, in-
eluding these of the Warren District,'
were forced to reduce their working!
forces very materially. This condi-1
tion was maintained until well into
last year. It might be considered an
even break, for not until late into
the summer, and possibly fall, did con
ditions, as prevailed in the spring of
1914, again find place in Bisbee and
the surrounding suburbs. ;-
Consequeatly. when the city of Bis
bee police court's docket discloses
that, during the year 1914. there were
7H3 arrests, and that a like view of"
the docket for the past year shows!
only 369 "arrests it would appear that
the 45.9 per cent decrease could be
claimed as a victory for prohibition.
It is here that one of the extraneous
conditions enters the calculation. In
neither year can all the arrests, or
even the great majority, be charged
directly or indirectly to the liquor
traffic. Furthermore from June 1,
1914, .until the present time the police
court of Eisbee has not been operated
as a revenue producer. The reverse
is true. The police officers of Bisbee
have instructions to arrest when there
is no other alternative in all cases
where a misdemeanor is being com
mitted or about to be so.
If good conditions, industrially
speaking, continue to prevail, and the
police court record of the month ofj
December is 'maintained, however,
the prohibition amendment can not be !
credited with any great boon, as last!
month showed to poor advantage, j
compared with the same month in the
preceding year.
In December, 1914, $110 in fines
were turned to the city collector. In
December, 1915, the amount was $342.
It can be seen, however, that Decem
ber, 1915, was a prosperous month and
the same period in the previous year
was the reverse. On the other hand.'
however, the saloons in 1914 werej
wide open and the month of Decern-1
ber included the closing of the traf-!
fic.'
In Lowell December, 1915, was ai
money-maker for the county. The)
justice court remitted to the treasur-i
er $340, in criminal fines. In 1914.
December, it was $45: in 1913, $37;!
in 1912. $98.
In- taxes, alone, can the best and
most accurate comparison be made as
the other figures, obtained from
court records, are at times confusing
and often not chargeable to the liquor
traffic, legalized or otherwise.
The amount of licenses, formerly
collected from saloons In Bisbee,
amounted, annually, to $17,250. This
source of revenue was completely
eliminated by the amendment. It was
necessary, however, for the city to
raise the amount as the expenditures
of community could not be curtailed
to come within the reduced tmount.
Ia nearly every building, where dur
(Coutlnued on pagt three)
5
BISBEE'S BIGGEST MONTH.
December was the biggest
month in the history of Bisbee
in the office of the City Mar
shal and Tax Collector, James
Allison, that city official hav
ing collected and turned over to
the city treasurer the sum of
J82.217.39.
The largest part of the above
amount was received from real
and personal property taxation.
The evcellent business condition
of the district and city went far
to reduce the usual delinquent
list to a minimum and bring the
total up to an unusually large
amount.
WILSON WILL
PE
DIRECT
President Hastens to Wash-jits maintenance by the United States
ington to Assume Charge jand " acceptance by South and Cen
, . t ! ": Itral American republics of the Monroe
Of orelgni hcy ln U-lSlS j Dostrine. is one of the fundamental
Caused by Sinking Persia, prases of the national defense plans
, formulated by the army and navy
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3. The pre8i-,'8trateglgta
dent Is en route to Washington toj It was iearned tnat thev believed it
personally assume cnarge oi me na-,
tion's foreign affairs in the new crisis
resulting from the sinking of the
Persia. The loss of at least one Amer
ican na laa tha sltiiAtlnn regarded as
the most serious to confront the Pean Pwers- or the alllance of two
United SUtes since the Teutonic sub- such Powers, which might hurl their
marine operations began. The Pres- j folceR simultaneously on the Atlantic
ident probably will lay all available j and Pacific coasts
facts before the cabinet tomorrow.) Navy strength, equal to those 0f any
Th iWrurtion nf the Persia foMtwo wrld powers, with the exception
lowing closely on the Ancona crisis
may result in the United States deter
mining to eettle immediately all ques
tions Involved in submarine warfare.
It is expected the submarine subject ; perts.
will be considered tomorrow: in the,lieves
house and senate. . . .
The United States is represented
as being prepared and determined to
take any action warranted when the
facts are established. The Austrian
embassy charge has conferred with
Lansing and is said to have suggested
withholding judgment until the facts
are known and expressed the belief j j500,000,000 in the last thirty years for
the final explanation will be satisfac- j navy TiEhUng equipment. The War
t0' . . :. , . I College recommended the expenditure
The Austrian charge is said to have! , t-nnnnnnnn ion 1011 . j .
assured Lansing of his belief that If .of f00-m ,","" roduce
the Austrian submarine commander a mobile army w hich with be reserv--violated
the principles of international es- uld total 1,500.000, with 500.000
law and rules of humanity his govern-! regulars. The remainder are continen
ment will be quick to take action itaIs-
which will fully satisfy the United Setting 1925 as the time when the
States. The officials are still trying United States navy should equal any
to view the situation with open minds,
It is apparent that they are disturbed
by reports from consular agents at
Alexander and Carlo. ' Every effort
will be made to establish the truth
of the report that the Persia was tor-
pedoed without warning. Secretary
Lansing contemplates taking no step
until rnmnlnta rtAtatla ara L-nnnrn Am.!
bassador Pen field at Vienna, has been
instructed to make inquiries which
might lead to the establishment of
the identiy of the submarine which
sank the Persia or information con
cerning circumstances of the attack.
Officials are not finally convinced
that the submarine was respsonsible.
There still ia a remote possibility that
the vessel might have struck a float-
ing mine adrift. The report that the
liner was carrying four 7-lnch guna.
served to revive consideration of the
position taken by the United State
in regard to armed merchantment.
The Italian ambassador called upon
Secretary Lansing seeking informa-;
uu uuu -me yuBsuou. ne reierrea to
the position of the United States at
the beginning of the war, which was
in line with provisions of the Hague
convention permitting armament for
defensive purposes. During the latter
discussion o fthe subject Secretary
Tonutn.r ,v, . ' I
abandoned her contention that the
Lusltania was an armed merchant
man. The Japanese ambassador called
on Lnsing for the purpose of obtain
ing any details which might have been
received regarding the sinking of the
Yasaka Maru. Secretary Lansing said
no details of Importance had been re
ceived and it Is indicated that the
United States will take no action in
that case, at least for the present.
ANOTHER STEAMER SUNK
LONDON, Jan. 3. The Times'
learns the Peninsular-Oriental liner,!
Geelong, has been sunk in the Medi
terranean. All aboard were saved.
Anxiety In official circles increased
when London press dispatches re
ported the sinking of tbe Geelong. No
word of the latest disaster reached
the State Department in official re
ports and will be awaited with grave
interest tomorrow.
JEWELS LOST ON PERSIA.
LONDON, Jan. 3. A Cairo
dis-
ftlYHi
DEFENSES
Preparedness Program Takes
into Consideration Possi
bility of Attack from Two
World Powers at One Time.
INVOLVES DEFENSE OF
PAN-AMERICAN PLAN
Army and Navy Experts
Think United States Must
Be Prepared to Defend
' Any Republic in Americas.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3. The possi
bility of a combined attack by twq
foreign powers, to break down the new
Pan-American doctrine evolved from
esgentIa, , the formuIation of a na.
Lional mmU po)jcy
I gainst the eventuality of an assault
'upon the ddctrine by Asiatic or Jturo-
of England, and an army prepared to
uphold the Pan-American idea any
where in Pan-America is the ultimate
aim of the plans of the military ex-
The navy, general board be
that in ten. years the United
States will have time to prepare for a
readjustment of the world forces fol
lowing the European war. The plans
of the army war college will be con
summated in 'six years. The navy
plans recommend an expenditure in
1916-1917 of $300,000,000 for ships, a-
,ajnst total Investment of less than
afloat, which means reaching the two
power standard of the British navy,
the board estimated that much time
should elapse before the shock of the
present war had elapsed sufficiently
to permit any of the belligerents to
iook on South ani central America
for coloniaI development or trade ag
gression. ' ;
Army officers take the position that
the United States must have sufficient
troops and troop ships to land forces
in any threatened Pan-American coun
try to meet an invader. It is now
known all these preparations have
been presented by strategists to the
administration as essential to support
the Monroe Doctrine, so the United
States would be able to act alone, if
necessary, to preserve the ideals with
entangling alliances. Such ideals, mil-
Mtary students stated, would impose
new duties on the United States re
quiring more than a policy of mere
passi,e resistance.
SCIENTIFIC CONGRESS MEETS.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 3. Diplomatic
representatives here of the Latin
American republics and chairman of
u,fiB "
Sclent 1 fic Con
the delegates to the Pan-American
gress met with the
ChIlean mb88aoor' the president of
the congress, as chairman to discuss
means of co-ordinating the work of
the organization.
Their recorded work was the selec-
tion r n executive committee a:id a
"resolution providing tor tne preserva
tion of the papers before the congress.
Informally there was free expression
of the satisfaction over the progress
being madi toward a greater Pan
American unity.
patch says the jewels of the Mahara-
jah Kaipurthala, valued at four mil
lions, were lost on board the Persia.
Members of the Maharajah suite were
on board the ship. The Maharajah
intended to join them at Tort Said.
PERSIA SURVIVORS LAND.
LONDON, Jan. 3. A Malta dispatch
to the Peninsular and Oriental com
pany states that eleven more of the
Persia survivors were landed. They
include Lord Montague.
WAR TIME SCENES AT SALONICA AND
Water bf-xes or Turkish desert plared by Germans to aid Ottoman allies; British and Greek transports passing
each other on Saionica road.
The far-sighted Germans hevo placed water bcxes at intervals on the Turkish desert in Asia in order
that their Ottoman allies may not sutfor in making the grat march on Egypt Upper photo shows a great
array of boxes at one of the water station?. Lower photo presents a curious contrast between the Biilish and
Greek transports.' British Tommies look on with interest at the small .two-wheeled carts used by the Greeks,
which the formervpass on the highway ne.r Salon.ca.
YAQUI VALLEV
' BEG01IG
NORMAL
IS:
Reports from Admiral Wins
low Indicate Indians Have
Retreated North. Reports of
Villa Butchery Verified. j
WASHIXGTON, Jan. 3. Normal
conditions are being restored in tha
Yaqui Valid, according to Navy Pe-'
partment advices from Admiral Wins-J.
low, commanding the Pacific fleet, j
Mexican foreign residents are report- j
ed as returning to their ranches. The '
Indians, wh0 recently terrorized the
region, apparently have withdrawn j
north of the Yaqui River. I
The State Department was informed :
today that after Villa left Chihuahua;
I many of his followers deserted. The
I force of General Rodriguez is said to
have been materially reduced by de-
i consul on the Pacific coast under dale
m iiecemoer a, saiu: a iuwo huuuii
sixty kilometers northeast of San BIhs
' was sacked, presumably by Indians.
The inhabitants fled to San Bias."
REPORTS CONFIRMED
DOUGLAS, Jan. 3. Person from
the interior of Sonora confirmed the re
ported massacre of a few weeks ago,
of the male residents of San Pedro de
La Cueva. Before retreating to Chi-
hunhua the Villa soldiers illed all the
males over fifteen. Among the killed
was Pndre Flores ,who was shot when
Interceding with Villa a third time in
I behalf of the men.
I Friends and relatives who have been
Investigating the reported death of
j George Saunders, an automobile a?ent,
I who has been missing from Nacozarl
trr fmir mnnths state thev hnve nrflc-
'
tically verified reports that Saunders
body was found and buried by Mexi
leans. Efforts to locate the grave are
! fruitless.
HUERTA VERY ILL
EL PASO, Jan. 3. General Huerta
underwent a second operation in an
effort to save his life. The first w as
pen... ..u.u,. v
. 1 o .. . nAn,.,l;nai nn.
since have developed and Huerta's con j
d it ion Is described as 'serious." He
whs relieved after the second opera-;
tion. !
Huerta was arrested several months
;ago on a charge of conspiracy to set'
afoot a revolution in Mexico. Until
! today he has been under surveillance
iby federal officials pending trial.
The operfatlon was of a minor char
acter.
A third operation is planned.'
Owing to the duration of tbe illness
ifrnm jaundice It will e necessary to
! operate without aneathetics.
(Continued on Page Six.)
MONTHLY COPPER PRICE
The average price of copper
for the month of December, ac
cording to returns received by
the Copper Queen Smelter, was
20.123 cents. Miners will re
ceive, for last month's work,
$4.60 per shift, the highest
wages ever paid in the district.
BOOZE ADS" ARE
E
I0RTH EST
Entire Editions
Taken from
News Stands to Conform
...:L C.-- A J xt
vrmi ittw .nuicimiiiciii.
Arrests in rortland.
'
SPOKANE, Jan. 3. Whole editions
of popuiar periodicals, were with-
ute prohibillon law forbidainK .dJ
U . U t. t U.I. .... r. W.nUV Vfc 1"V
verusemeiuB ui liquors. mrrr were'
cases where the magazines were not
withdrawn, but the pages containing
the liquor advertising haa been re
moved. A magazine distributing
acency announced that several maga
zines would issue editions not contain
ing liquor advertising for sale In Ore
gon, Washington and Idaho.
;
COLORADO VERY DRY.
DENVER. Jan. 3. Colorado waa
drier today, under the prohibition
law, than she will probably be again.
Not a Bale of liquor for any purpose
could be legally made. The first of
forty-five permits to sell liquor was
approved by the governor. They will
be sent to wholesale and retail drug-
gists and church representatives. Un
i I .Kn naraitta a a Ahl.ln.il tntArlStllt
-
til the permits are obtaii
cannot be sold legally.
NOT AN ARREST.
PORTLAND. Jan. 3. For the. first
time in the history of Portland there
ended twenty-four hours without an
arrest for drunkenness or disorderly
conduct. If the new prohibition law
. nQ Qffl(er Mf
a9Certain the fact.
One arrested for having liquor In
his possession, was acquitted upon
showing the possession was legal.
The municipal judge freed fourteen
confirmed drunkards, who had been
arrested at various times within the
past five months.
INCREASE WAGES.
HOUGHTON, Mich.. Jan. 3. The
r0pper Bans Mining company an-
nounced a five per cent wage Increase.
it affects three thousand. Mnce
November 1 the company has raised I
i wages fifteen per cent.
BARRED
IN TURKISH ASIA
NEAR SCORE DIE
iimrii ti inrrn '
wntll lAltli !
EXPLODES 1
Norwegian Tank Steamer's
Engine Room is Scene of
T r 1 r -
icrnoie vaLaaixopiic , une
Dead, 11 Missing.
NEW YORK, Jan. 3. One ma.i is . military affairs will meet and Garrison
dead and eleven are known to be will appear to explain bis plan for a
mlssins as a result of an explosion' reorganization of the army. Senator
which wrecked the engine room of stone, chairman of the Senate Foreign,
jlhe Norwegian oil tank steamer, i Relations Committee, conferred witk
I Aztec, at the Brooklyn dock. The dead! Lading at the State Department and
man was the fireman of the vessel. iw)! Reek a conference with the Presl
fPive of the missing are members of 'cu. before the meetin? of the com
' the crew. The other six were em--,;,t, 1. 1,01.1 vvinari tn ha, in thm
j pIo'6d on the dock. fcpvn were in:
i iure1- tnre wriously.
I
trapped;
Most of. the victims were
below decks and
those not instantly1,
i killed were probably drowned by the
wer that flooded tlie engine room
, through a great bole blown in the
side of the vessel. The Aztec had
iust left drvdook. The cause of the
explosion is unknown although It Is
Deiievea 10 nave oeen causea oy ine
bursting of a tank of ten thousand
CUDic feet of gas used in connection
with the oil fuel for tbe engines.
For several hours after the explo
sion city firemen worked desperately
and futilely to recover the bodies of
vl,.ftm. km maa .lmnat rArtnin
v , .V", ,a ZZ
those below at the time could not
have escaped with their lives, it was
, finally decided to pump the ship dry
before renewing attempts to reach
the bodies. One body was hurled
into the air, followed by a flame that
' 9h0t fifty feet high. The body fell
into the water and sank immediately.
The Aztec was under charter to the
fnterocean Transportation company.
( The tanker recently arrived from
France and was to have sailed for
Philadelphia this week, ta take on a Major General Leonard Wood, corn
cargo for a return trip to France. j manding the department of the EaU
ARGUMENTS ARE HEARD
NEW YORK. Jan. 3. Summarizing .
the testimony the government counsel
pictured the eleven former New Haven j
directors, charged with the violation of j
the Sherman act as men who regarded 1
the law as a "trfle when it stood in
the way or their alleged design to mon-, Rteamer Thessaionlki which had beea
opolize transportation traffic In Newin troub(e for ,eVeral days, has esnt
England. ; a wireless call for help. She last re-
Government attorney Osborne laid
greal stress upon the
high standing)
and intellectuality" of the defendants.
which, he said, was all the more rea- are reported near. The call dida't
son why they knew they were violat- give her position nor the cause ef the
ing tbe law. He dwelt upon the ljtin I present trouble.
expression which Lewis Ledyard used 1
in testifying in Uis own defense, -the BODY TO AGUSTA
law doesn't consider trifles.- WASHINGTON, Jan. 3. Aage-
-No." shouted the attorney, "thi.ments were made to end to Austa
way they translated that was 'what j the body of Awwiate Justic Lamar,
in thunder do I care about the law "j who died yesterday ef ha failuae.
CONGRESS TO
GATHER Id
CRITICAL
CRISIS
Leaders of Both Branches of
Congress and of Both Par-
, ties Do Not Deny that the
Country Faces Crisis.
PREPAREDNESS TO
RECEIVE ATTENTION
Senate Foreign Affairs Com
mittee will Take Action, on
Resolution to Investigate
Interference.
WASHINGTON", Jan. 3 Congress
reassembles tomorrow in the midst of
the international situation which rival
I political leaders admitted tonight was
lone of the most critical that has con
i fronted the nation. The ' returning
j members talked little but of the con
; sequences that migbt result from the"
sinking of the British steamer Persia'
in the Mediterranean, with the loss ot
an American life and the strained dip
lomatic relations between the United
States and Austria.
I Although administration leaden in
, formally are inclined tn proceed cau
jtiously and await positive information
there is a general feeling of uneaai
Jness among the senator and represen
tatives over the gravity, followirg th4
affairs. Although foreign affairs over
shadow everything else in interest for '
the moment, the activity over national
preparedness will begin at once.
Hearings will br held tomorrow be
fore the House Nival' Affairs Commit
tee on the annual appropriation bill.
The first subject taken up uill be thai!
of yards and decks, including the pro
jected big dry-docx at Norfolk. Th
Senate Naval Committee wilt iet to
consider Senator Ttl!nians bill for tb
.erection of a government armor plate
factory.
I Thursday the House committee on
consideration of matters pertaining to
the diplomatic affairs of the nation,
t, seems assured the rommiue will
resolution, submitted bv
,Senator Hoke Smith, cabins for, an in-
, into Great Brita!,,-,, interference
' ,v,. ,n
ment by Senator Lodge to Invest ieatd
. . . ..;! a
othrr apts of tbe tere,,,., .tA.
ing the destruction of American lives.
Other lecislation. ready for consider
ation, includes water power, mineral
I lands, leasing bills and the farm loan
'bank bill. The joint committee on rur
al loans completed the farm loans bill
tonight. It will probably be reported
-to both houses tomorrow.
"
MILITARY RESERVE ORGANIZED.
NEW YORK, Jan. 3. One hundred
members of the East Side branch of
the Y. M. C. A. have enrolled in a
company for military training, it was
announced. This was the first step
, ,n lan juiti4ted by this branch
to nave moT9 tnan 50,000 member
tnroUghout the country formed into an
army reserve. The general plan for
lne reserve has bee npassed upon by
PIONEER EDITOR DIES.
KANSAS CITY. Jan. S. Robert
Van Horn aged ninety-one. a pioneer
and statesman of the middle west,
died at his borne here today. He was
the founder of the Journal.
GREEK STEAMER HELPLESS.
i VRW YORK. Jan 3. The Greek
i ported in tow by the Patris and is ex-
petted to reach port tomorrow. The.
1 steamers Finland and United Statea
