,F,S'T,'"
f V '.
U toHr Laa b Bi jBOt m&f f
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair and warmer tonigjrt
(ull Report ort Page TwoV)
V
fme
fcTTJMBEB SJHO.
WASHnfetTON, TUESDAY ETEXING, ANTTABY 4, 1916.
WILS
TAKE
ON PROMI
SES
HOME
EDITION
PRICE ONE OETT.
s
CHARGE
OF
PROMPT ACTION
ISSUE
U
BOAT
BRITISH Clll
WING HI 10
COLO
Those Between 23 and 26 Are
Tofteport For Duty on Feb-'ruafcyS.
SIMON ! LEAVES CABINET
Conscription Bill-Ready. For, In
traduction This Week Into
Parliament.
Cost of Range Puts
Cooking by Electricity
Beyond Most Persons
Vice President William E. Ham Admits That At Time
of Reduction There Were Only Seventy-five
Washingtontans in Position to Benefit
From Change.
HRST LADY OF
LAND AMES;
PLANS LEVEE
Hindu Princess Who Lost
Jewels on the Persia.
LONDON, Jan. 4. Single men Be
tween the ages of. twenty-three ana
twenty-six. Inclusive, won? called to
thcoloVs, today.- ' ,
The BHth cablnett at a brief session
' a creed upon a bill for conttenptton, ana
Home Sfcrtr-ry Sir John fln;on simul
taneously announced his reslgnatton,
stndo Jip wss oppiiwd to compu'jsory
military .service. ' .
rHYSVy other mpmbcr of the cabinet
wis present tit the' twcnd-a-half-hoar
tessten. , ' , s
Accompanying, the, .nnounceniMit
tbtthe conscription , Wl.wjoutf bo rr
Hfifi-dafitanienTrthlsl?tiek',Tra a1
Btntt-rnen
eatmwi
teHuYe,
iienf showlojr that the liota Derby
eatmwsn vor volunteer hart .ecn ( q
i , ' BfS.M. REYNOLDS.
y ' It requires no technical knowledge or even a great amount of
figuring to understand that the new rates of the Potomac Electric
Power Company for cooking and heating are ,beyond the .enjoyrrjent
of the average Washingtorrian.
As stated yesterday, irf the first of a series of articles to appear
in .The Times, when the announcement was made that the company
had proposed a voluntary cut in these rates, the public got the im
pression that the company had done a great and generous thing.
To offset this view The Times has it on the say-so of no less an
authority than William F Ham-vice president of the company, that
the greatest number' of residents of this city in position at the time
the reduction was announced to benefit thereby was seventy-five per-
If that number is increased to any measurable extent in, the
sons.
next few years it will be only "because there are so many more per
sons, willing and able' to enjoy an expensive luxury.
Here is the proposition which the company put up to the Public
Utilities Commission -as: a great and generous "voluntary" cut in
rates, and which the commission hs seen fit to approve: Up to the
present 4ime th6 company made, nd distinction between the current
sed;&Qr'4)ghtjng anjithp cujrert used for fueUn, the. residence. For
air this current it 'dialed. lO.fcents a-kilowattrnour' for the first -120
'charged-
kitptfatr houra.of -use in -.9 ftionth, and Stce'rite per k'Howahf.'hotfr for
the excess.y , , '
'. PROPOSER TO DIVIDE SERVICE,
it
Mrs. Wilson At White House
Completing Arrangements
For Friday's Reception.
WILL MAKE FORMAL DEBUT
Official Social Functions Will
Follow in Rapid Succession
After Opening This Week.
now proposes to divide the
.iJuiL. ' ? - - - im-'-' -v service. For lighting the atcwM
k ireifn
Other Reslfertatibna.
, .tiiily 63 per cent of tho single nien'of
.military ago had onuatea wniie nearly
5Tpr -cent of men- or military sge,naan"'"., .! "- "w CiriS-i-
i-j ' -.. . .' 1 11. icooianff purposes it proposes :cparuio
1 no. men in groupo put vo nnw.uu- . -,..- .-. i,i. -un.fd ,.fo
this service It would charge lcentsa
kilowatt 'hour1 for the first ten kilowatt
f hours used In a month arid 5 cents a
kilowatt hour (or all current used in
excess of this amount. "'
"Although ' the', cost of Installing .the
extra meter would, of course, fall on
the company, the cost of the additional
wiring from the meter' to the appliance
p.r appliances to get this extra service
would fall on the owner of the premises.
And while this might be 'nominal In tho'
to tsoiors today, will report for duty on
ivbrunry R, . .
Other cabinet resignations, because, of
tho conscription policy are rumored. ,
Sir John Simon Is a liberal In politics
rnd had served In a previous cabinet a
itftorney general. ,He was given tho
rrfifiolio' of homo secretary when the
coalition' cabinet was formed several
months ago.
'Tho official 'statement confirmed pre
, vloua reports that the Lord Derby cam
paign had failed. It was made, public
bi-"thescove.rnment to show why It was
necessary' 10 oaooi some lorm 01 con-,
cvlptlnn. It called attention to the fact
that 691,160 men can be added to the
Jiiltifh armies by drafting only slnclo
t.ii of military ago not urgently'necded
l.i 'other occupations'. .. ,
Of 5.011,441 men of military age In
the United Kingdom, only 2,829,281
enlisted during- the Lord perby re
cruiting .campaign. It Is announced.
When the' Derby recruiting- cam
paign was Inaugurated, It was under
stood that if recruits came forward,
in fufflclcnt force, the government
would decide definitely against con
scription. A special appeal was made
to unmarried men to enlist.
Ireland Exempt.
Despite contrary reports, the Dally
Chronicle stated positively today that
Ireland will not be Included In the
Hcope pt the conscription bill.
Of 2,179.231 single men of military age
in the United Kingdom, only UE0.009
have' volunteered. Of those who failed
lo enroll. 3i8;071 are exempted from mill
tan' service because they hold "pre
ferred' noeltions In rovernment service
or in other dntlrn making It Inadvisable
that they 1oln the army.
To Affect 650,000 Men.
This leaves 651,160 single men available.
It-is probable that the government's bill
wit', ctt Part or all theso men into
service. ,
Of 3.8K.J10 married men of military
age. l.tfr?.2tSl enrolled under the Derby
recruiting plan. It Is understood that
the xovernmrnt will take no steps, at
least fpr the. present, to draft married
men,Vfor service In tho army.
case of the owner of the house, for the.
apartment house' owner it would total a
very respectable sum of money.
, After paying this cost of-wiring, or
Before :he .undertook It. the. would-be
patron of this new and "generous" rate,
would- find that unless ho installed an
electric cooking range no other appliance
he would be likely to' use would con
sume more than; It as much as, ten.
kilowatt hours a month. That Is to1
say unless be., used a coomns ransro or attires in her' trousseau. Members o
some other equally largo" consumer of (the Cabinet and their -vivoi will corn
current, he would -not be likely, for all prise the rest of the receiving-" line.
,hls separate service and separate meter. , Following his reception other White
to pay less than the primary rate of 10 Ihouso functions will follow one another
cents a kilowatt hour. . Which means t in rapid succession, the entire, montn
mat ii. wouiq pe aosunj, ior-nim xo nave
Mrs. Woodrow Wilson took charge to
day at the White House ao'ie first
lady of the land."
Arriving in Washington eany wis
morning with the President the bride
found arrangements fully completed for
tho launching Friday night of the White
House social season.
On that evening Mrs. Wilson will
make her formal debut to official and
social circles of Washington as the
President's wife. It will be a reception
tr the VisltlnE delegates and Latin-
American diplomats attending the. Panj
American. Scientific Congress.' , '
Thousands- "'iivliVrtflJha- 'iiaVA boon
sent out, and-.HJsirrodlcted that tno,
reception, win uo iuo uiuxi largely v-
teuded in the' history of the present Ad
ministration. All Washington society
is eager to get a glimpse Of the White I
.Bouse brido. .and it Is safe to predict
will Iws IHa most cnrvcoui MMti her ft for .
Unr. tv.
To President's Bight.
Mrs. Wilson, who will stand at tho
President's right at Uio lteud of the
receiving lino in the Uluo Room will
wear a beautiful evening gown. It is
said to be one of uie most becoming i
lii ii "
Ball v.ttm&mzM
Mm. pZ2jm
SiegSHF i
:KE'
tsacanrantr- i
NOTES TO CENTRAL
POWERS LIKELY TQ
BE FORWARDED SOON
President May Also, Intimate to Entente
Nations That Passengers Should Not Be
Carried On. Liners Armed With Guns
Consuls Send Reports. .
tlA,D)V
MAHARANEE.- OfiCapurthala,
l.M l .L .!,
n 3i m in in i:muiv
iDt.UUU.UUU ULIflu
(Continued on Trelfth. Page.).
RRITISM LiNER SUNK
IN COLLISION AT SEA
TjONTWf; Jan. 4.-The British
lnr Oeelonr has been sunk In col
lision wjth the steamer Bonvllston. also
flylmr the British flag. Dispatches re
ceived here today said that all per
sons aboard the GeeJong have been
saved, but did not report the damage
to the Bonvllston.
The OeeJong Is owned by she Penln
nuiar and Oriental Compsny. the tame
firm that owned the Persia, sunk by
a submarine In the Mediterranean. She
displaced 7.951 tons, being only sllsht'y
umaller )hsn tho Persia.
The Oeelong's route lay from Londoii
to Capetown, and according to one r
nort she was sunk off Gibraltar. The
first dispatches merely reporting that
iht liner was sunk, led to the belief
ths.tjjh was a new submarine victim.
The Bonvllston displaced 4.2S8 tuns,
she Is owned br tht,Dou!a Kilt
"IRAOING Of MIND" HB MOTOR M
MMMwmmtmmm
Miss C. E. Mason Addresses
Auxilliary Conference on
Solidarity of Womanhood.
The oustandlnar feature of the meet
ing of the Woman's Auxiliary Con
ference of the Second Pan-American
Congressman Cary Introduces
Bill Providing For Increase in
License Cost.
Congressman Cary, of Wisconsin, a
Republican member of the District
committee, introduced In the House to-
Congress at Continental Memorial) day a bill fpr a pension and retirement
Hall this morning was the presenta
tion by Miss C. E. Mason, who spoke
on "The Solidarity ,v of the World's
Womanhood as an International As
set," of a tentative program for ed
ucational co-operation between, the
republics of the Americas as a means
of establishing: that "commerce of
mind" and spiritual union which In
time of stress should prove a strong
er bond than commercial and finan
cial ties.
Miss Mason advocated an inter
change Of "pupils between the col
leges of tho American republics, as
professors are now Interchanged; an
Internattqnal 'organization of the va
rious women's clubs apd societies for
welfare work and the establishment
of children's bureaus, kindred organ
isations -working (independently, each
in Its own country, but meeting to
gether for mutual Inspiration.
Mlos Mabel Boardman presided at the
meeting; Mrs. Lansing, wife of the Sec
retary of State, occupied a seat on tlje
platform during most or we morning,
and the other sueakers of the morning
were um Aiauae lounner, wupsb bud
Ject was "The Debt of the United States
to the Women of Other Countries," and
Mrs. Fannie Fern Andrews, who spoke
on "A Pap-American Bureau of Educa
tion."
TMre was also an Interesting paper
on "The Training Schools for. Nurses.
bringing out the necessity for the. es
tablishment of a uniform and adequate
standard of training and for appropria
tions of-money to out the schools on a
sound financial basis. Mrs. Sldwell read
a paper on "Women in. .Organisation,
by Mrs. Philip Mpore.
New York Florida Steelal."
Finest train to Florida resorts. AtUntlo
Coast Line, r:l5 p. m. daily. B other all
ttsl ltd trains nr. iw x .
n
avs, w,
system for members of the police force
with provision that .the pension fund is
to be created altnoit entirely from au
tomobile licenses lii the District
Mr. Cary suggests that automobile
licenses be based on horse power and
that motorists shall take out an ex
pensive license tag annually. Dog taxed
and' a number of special license taxes
are also suggested by thp Wisconsin
member s' a means of raising an ade
quate police retirement fund.
Congressman Cary' further proposes
that whenever a member of the police
force Is stationed m front of a house,
a tehater, or other public -place, ,of
amusement, a charge of 10.60 jer day
for each policeman, shall be assessed
against the Individual or concern get
ting the benefit of the special police
protection. This provision would ap
ply to the management of ball parks.
A graduated system of pensions, al
lotted by a retiring board, and authority
for tho retirement of disabled officers
or those who have served twenty-fivs
years, is provided in the Cary bill,
jAllies Threaten to
Blockade Mytilene
H&RLIN (via wireless to Bayville),
Jan. 4. The allies have threatened to
blockade the Island of Mytilene unless
Greeoe releases two allied agents who
robbed Greek mails bound for Athena
and were arrested, according to Athens'
dispatches today.
The" Greek people,' are reported to be
greatly excited over the refusal of Gen.
Sarrall to release consuls of the Central
empires seised at Salonika. Afrest of
the Norwegian consul general See f el
der Is exs3ot4 te girt rise to frssh
ffraiUUi v
f of January, from tho 7th on, being taken
up wltn receptions ana suuo ainners.
At tho two dinners given to tho mem
bers of tho Diplomatic Corps the Presi
dent's bride will have her llrst oppor
tunity to display the" tact which she
is said to possess. .
To, Have Two Dinners.
There will be two of these dinners,
the guests beffiff divided according to
the line-ups In the present European
war. This Was arranged In order to
avoid the embarrassment which wovld
arise If the dlplomatis of the entente
nowera were to attend a function at
which those of the central powers were,
present. In this connection comment I
had been aroused by the fact that the I
minister from Greece will attend th l
dinner given to the diplomats from tho
,Mn. Wilson took, chanre of the in.in- I
asrement of tho ' White House this !
- ... ..
morning, put rouna nine supervising
to do. The' establishment, with Us
large corns of trained servants, runs
almost automatically, and except for
thfr selection, which Mrs. Wilson will
make. In '. connection with the meals
for herself and the President, sbo will
havo practically nothing to do.
TO OPEN HEARINGS
ON DISTRICT BILL
LOST WITH PERSIA
Maharanee's Collection Is Be
lieved to Have Been on Sub
manned Steamship. ,
!
Appropriations Committee to
Begin Session Tomorrow
Behind Closed Doors. '
Hearings on the District budget appro
priation bill will begin tomorrow before
the Page subcommittee of tho House
Appropriations Committee Tho. sub
committee sent word to the District
Commissioners today that a hearing
will be accorded them, and all three
of tho city fathers are expected to be
on hand to support their estimates.
Tho hearings will be behind closed
doors, but eventually the printed report
or the proceedings win oe made pubiio.
The Commissioners will analyse esti
mates calling for approximately 115,000.
000. an unuauallv tarce sum.
It is practically certain thst theso
estimates will be extensively nrnncd.
but the Commissioners will stroncly
urge more liberal treatment than here
tofore. Hearings on the budget wil continue
ior several '
Senate Reveres Lamar.
The Senate adjourned out of respeet
to Supreme Justice Lamar this after
noon, transacting no uin.jas save the
wearing in sw miu t ueuih
swearing
QajftHM.
LONDON. Jan. 4. A Cairo dispatch
to the Evening News says' : that the
Jewels' of Che Maharajah 'at Kapur- j
thala, valued at $4,000,000 were lost ,
aboartrthe sterner Persia,
The members of Jtho naharajah's
suite were, aboard the ship, but the
maharajah himself intended ' to Join
his party at Port Said.
The Princess of Kapur thala visited
Washington last May with her lord
and master. Jagat Jit Singh, of Baha
dur, Kapurthala, a Punjab state, and
sho had -with her: the 14.000,000 worth
of Jems lost on the Persia. -
Inevitably the Jewels accompanied
tho maharajah. one of tho richest
prinCes of India, and they were worn
by the wife highest in his favor who
hannened to be traveling: with him.
When ho was last In Washington this 1
wife. No. 4, was a. apaaiara. Anna
Tt1,iA wh. urn a Anpllitf n. ! RhA
4ieMiv. ww tr n ,. u.,w...B. B... ..
aressea in tne neigni or western iasn-
lon, and did not anect tne iiowing
robes and the rustling silks of an In
dian princess. After he left Washing
ton last June the prince had his strong
box. snld to have container ty,uuu
In credits, stolen in Salt Lake City,
but he recovered the papers.
Though tho gems lost arc tho fa
vorites of his collection, the loss will
not bo a great hardship to his high
ness, for In his collection there arc said
to be ISG.000,000 more In gems Alone. His
Income is estimated at W.WiO.COQ. nd ho
rays about JMO.O00 per annum In rents.
The Maharajah paid ivo visits to this
country, ono In 1&3 and tho other last
year, and was In Washington each
time,
Ho Is a rtunarkablo linguist, and sur
prised;, Americans by hjs democratic
manners.
IM) SOON TO BE
AIRED
IN SENATE
The Mexican situation and the policy
of this Government toward' Mexico will
soon como'ln'for an airing in tho ben
ate. Senator Kail was expected today to
introduce a resolution aimed at the Aa
ministration's Mexican policy, rtut eany
adjournment of the Hoiate on account
of the death or Justice Lamar, or tne
Sunreme Court, prevented it.
When the resolution Is presented. It
undoubtedly wl.ll arouse a storm of dis
cussion. Various Sonators are prepare!
to speak en the subject.
Already there is the fight which Is on
In thai. Foreign Relations Committee
over the confirmation' of Ambassador
Fletcher, who has been nominated for
the Mexico city post. Behator. Borah
Is leading the fight on the grounuyiot
Carranca has pot shown he could Main
tain n stable government and that
Mexico 1 net yt ntltld to an am-luuuaaar,
President Wilson will lose no time in taking action to
obtain satisfaction for the sinking of the British liner Per
sia and the death of Robert Nay McNeely, the newly ap
pointed American consul at Aden.
Definite promise of this was given by him today in a
formal statement issued at the While House by Secretary
Tumulty. The statement was brief, but significant. Just
what it portends will develop, it is beiieved, in the next
twenty-four hdurs.
, It suggests the possibility of a severance of diplomatic
relatiQrtsbut, .in. theight of "sirniiar statements- issued in
connection with the destruction eight months'' ago of the
Lusitania, officials declare that it does not necessarily fore
cast such action. The statement reads ;,
"The President and the Secretary of State
are taking every means possible to obtain full
facts in this grave matter, and will act just as
soon as the information is obtained."
PRESIDENT TAKES CHARGE.
It gave the first evidence of the fact that the President,
upon his return from his honeymoon this morning, took im
mediate charge of the critical situation. He had hardly
reached the White House with his bride before he was ift
communication by telephone with Secretary of State Lan
sing, who gave him the latest information in the hands of
the State Department.
This information included two dispatches received this
morning. They came from Consul General Skinner, at
London, and, Consul Kebliger, at Malta, and in the latter
eleven survivors of the Persia disaster were quoted as stat
ing that the merchant ship with its cargo of human freight
was torpedoed without warning.
The Secretary was also able to give the President the
results of his talk yesterday with Baron Zwiedenek, the
Austrian charge d'affaires, who expressed confidence that
if an Austrian submarin .was responsible for the attack and
lad violated the laws of humanity, Austria would give full
satisfaction.
STATEMENT FOLLOWED CONFERENCE.
The White House statement was. issued following this
conversation between the President and Mr. Lansing.
Subsequently the President had long and earnest in
terviews with Chairman William F. Stone, of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, and Chairman Hal Flood, of
the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. All these two
could say on leaving the White House was that the Presi
dent still lacked complete information necessary to the
fixing of responsibility for the disaster.
This explanation, it was assumed, would be convey
ed by the two chairmen to members of the Senate and
House to stave off, if possible, intemperate utterances on
the floors of the Senate and House.
There was no Cabinet meeting. Apparently the Pres
ident wished, before consulting his colleagues, to make up
his own mind In the light of further details.
In official circles the impression is strong that in the
next expression to come fromthe American Government
J
