HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
Mpi i an bank rr.tps ("state bills) 8',fiilS
Men-ail pfo- 4 "Nacionales bills 17s
C rran-a urrncy 4 Bar sflr
fllind & Harmon quotations) E61
Copprr ?3i-4 uraiiw lower I4vefctxk
taib sto'k irregular
AVKATIIER TOKZCAST.
EI InM fair: wet Texas, fair; Panhan
dlr. rain, colder: Nfw Mexico ami Ari
onu, central.? fair; colder In north.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. TUESDAY EVENING. JANUARY 4. 1916.
DELIVERED ANYWHERE f CENTS A MONTH
TWELVE PAGES TODAY.
SENATE CHIEF
LY DODGE ATTACK
NMB
N
V
phuis llfCEN HUER
I I ' R 1 3 1 8 H sssBsesi G B Awmi w
fP 1 ! F S53 PI 8 Tf
The Resignation Of Sir John
Simon Is Announced In
House Of Commons.
TWO OTHERS MAY
DESERT PREMIER
Conscription For Army Is the
V Obstacle Over Which the
Cabinet Is Stumbling.
J- ONDOX, Ens., Jan. 4. Lord Derby's
J recruiting figures for the preiod
between October 23 and December
13 show that 1,150.000 unmarried men
and 1,679,263 married men presented
.y themselves for service. The total regis
tration is thus far 1,829,26; men.
Of the grand total. 103,000 unmarried
k and 112.411 married men enlisted im
mediately. Eight, hundred and forty
thousand single men and 1.314.979 mar
ried men were attested for future serv
ice. Of the single men 297,000 were reject
ed, while 22LSSJ married men were sol
accepted by the recruiting officers.
Under the recruiting plan of the earl
of Derby, all men registered are liable
to military service at call of the gov
ernment, subject to the .provision, tnalv
the married men are not to be called to
s the ooiers until substantially all unmar
ried men are In the ranks. Unmarried
men are subject .to call as Beetled.. Af
ter they are in uniform, the. government
is then free to call married men to the
colors. i
Conscription Is Dlscusaed-
There has been a long delay in mak-
i. j ing public the figures of recruiting
vunder the Derby plan. The cabinet has
been considering conscription to provide
the needed enlistments, for it was felt
that unmarried men had not come for
ward in suitable numbers. Though the
cabinet's plans have not been officially
announced, it has been rumored that
a bill authorizing conscription will
shortly be introduced in the house of
commons.
Sir John Simon Resign.
Announcement was made in the
house of commons today of the resig
nation of Sir John Simon, secretary of
state for home affairs on account of
the conscription matter
It again becomes evident that the
cabinet crisis is far from ended. Simon
had a prolonged interview with pre
mier Asquith Monday. The premier
did his utmost to induce Sir John to
remain in the eabinet, but without
Two Other Mar Quit.
The position of Reginald McKenna,
chancelor of the exchequer, and Wal
ter Runciman, president of the board
of the board of trade, is still unde
cided. They ar.- making the accept
ance of the government compulsion
bill conditional upon securing a conces
sion to their view on the eventual size
of the army.
Premier Is In Quandary.
In this matter premier Asquith is in
an embarrassing position He is be
ing strongly impelled from the outside
not to vi eld this point and it is be
lieved that a majority in the cabinet
itself it against their views.
Will Exclude Ireland.
The treatment of Ireland is another
thorny problem and the conflicting
statements regarding this matter may
be an indication of the struggle in the
cabinet todaj. All newspapers agree
that Ireland will be excluded from the
operation of the bill.
GERMVJVY n.VXDOS CI, VIM
USITiMI VI S ARMED
Wahlngton. D. G, Jan. 4. Germany
no longer contends that the Lusitania
could be classed as an armed vessel,
& curtention which was advanced as
b. justification for the destruction of
the ship with more than 100 American
livs Secretarv of state Lansing dis
closed Sloid that the contention has
beei abamoned in the course of the
rcgotiations for settlement between
the Lilted States and Germany.
RESCUE HOME PL A YHOUSE
IS NEARING COMPLETION
Work is now in progress on the playhouse and kindergarten for the
little parentless beys and girls in the Rescue Home, and it should be com
pleted some time this week, when the children will have a place to play and
receive instructions in the thirgs essential to children.
At present the home is so crowded that the children have to play in
the sewog room. With the completion of the playhouse, they can play un
molested, for the building s large enough for them 2nd is equipped with
enough windows to let in plenty of air and light. It can be closed tightly
so that it can be made warm on cold days.
Alderman W. G. Jolly, who drew the plans, is supervising the work of
conitroction on the building.
The work is being done by contributions of money and material made for
this purpose by kind hearted readers of The Herald, in response to this paper's
appeal for aid for the little ones.
At Least, Mexico Is Headed Forward Now, Instead of Backward or
LLULICT
IN PERSIA CASE
Embassies and Consuls Are
Gathering Information
Begarding Disaster.
"Washington, D. C . Jan. 4 Official
announcement that the government will
act in the newest phase of the sub
marine crisis brought on by the sink
ing of Persia was made today at the
white house
Secretary Tumulty issued this state
ment for the president
"The president and the secretary of
state are taking every means possible
to obtain the full facts in this gravo
matter and will act Just as soon as the
information is obtained.
Cabinet Meeting Canceled.
In the absence of detailed and spe
cific information on which to base the
next step, president Wilson canceled
the cabinet meeting which was to have
been held today, but conferred with
chairman Stone and some members of
the senate foreign relations committee.
The president instructed secretary
Lansing to bring immediately to the
white house any new information
which came to hand and then busied
himself reading the official dispatches
so far received, and gettms in touch
generally with the situation.
Depend on U. S. Official.
The' administration is depending
largely on the inquiries which ambas
sador Penfield has been instructed to
make at Vienna and the information
which consuls are gathering elsewhere,
to establish the nat onality of the sub
marine which is said to have sunk the
Persia.
Maharajah' Jewel Lost.
London, Ens.. Jan. 4. A Cairo dis
patch to the Evening News says that
h tonrMtx nf thA Maharaiflh nf .annr-
thala, valued at 34.000.000 were lost
aboard the steamer Persia. The mem-
bers of the Maharajah's suite were
aboard the ship, but the Maharajah I
himself intended to join them at Port j
Said. I
The Peninsula and Oriental company'
has received a dispatch from Malta
saying 11 more survivors of the Persia
have been landed, Including Lord 1
Hontesne. I
Consul JXot Anion;? Survivors. I
Robert 'X. McNeely. the American i
consul at Aden, was not among. the sur
vivors landed at Malta.
The Peninsular and Oriental com'.
pany says the survivors consist of
three English, one Italian and seven
Lascars.
The Times learns that the Penisular
and Oriental liner Geelong has been
sunk near the Mediterranean.
Airplane Ambulances '
Are Latest In Warfare'.
Paris, France. Jan. 4 Airplanes '
were used for ambulance work for the
first time on record dunnir the
treat from Servia by the- French mili
tary mission, says Henri' Barbey, a
war correspondent of the Journal.
The Balkan mission was at Prisrend.
There were a number of ick persons.
It was impossial? to carry them on
stretchers, but it was determined not
to abandon them. The French 'still
had six airplanes. They had been ex
posed to rain and snow for two
months, but were still in working
order. CoL Fournier placed on these
airplanes the sick men whose condition
was most grave and sent them by air
to Scutari.
PROTEST VGAINST RRKT
QI COASt'l. lAiEKED
Athens, Greece, Jan. 4 M. Skouloudis,
premier of Greece, states he has not
yet received an answer to his protest
to the entente powers regarding the
arrest of the consuls at Salomki or
Germany and her allies.
The public has been greatly aroused
by the arrest of the consuls. The claim
of the entente officers that the consuls
were engaged in spying is characterised
as laughable.
AGED ARE STUDENTS IN
NEW MEXICO NIGHT SCHOOLS
Santa Fe, X. M. Jan.. 4 Men and
women as old as 60 and 70 are now
learning to read and write in the
"moonlight schools" of Santa Fe coun
ty, the first in the state, established
for the first time in this school year.
Over 1000 are enroled, according to
a report by the county superintendent,
the ages ranging from 18 to 70. These
night schools ar held from two to
four times weekly.
GILA'S ROAD BOND ISSUE
BRINGS $20,100 PREMIUM
Globe Ariz.. Jan 4 At a premium of
$20 10tt M1& count s 350.04 road bond
. L ChTckV TT'entST'
j37. 190 will be paid the county mperrlMrs
l,by January 10.
TA
. -Q
TWO TEACHERS !
FOR SHE II
Neither Speaks to Other;
One Fired for Marry
ing; Voters Eetain" Her.
Phoenix, Ariz, Jan. 4. Tiro teachers
are giving their entire time and atten
tion to the primary grade at the Fowler
school, seven miles west of Phoenix.
Each is ignoring, as far as possible,
the existence of the other
When Miss Carrie Green was dis
charged from Jier position as teacher
because she became Mrs. Billings, Miss
Lillian Wells was engaged by the
trustees to fill the vacancy. Mrs.
Billings's discharge created a furore
and a special election was called, at
which a majority of the electors of the
district voted to instruct the trustees to
teinstate her. This the trustees have
so far refused to do. So Mrs. Billings
simply walked into the school room,
hung up her hat and coat and pro
ceeded to teach. At the same time Miss
Wells was proceeding about her duties
as usual.
The principal requested Mrs. Billings
to leave but she refused to do so. An
S. O S. call was telephoned to county
school superintendent J. A Riggins. at
Phoenix, but he declined to interfere.
The will
I of the lato Thomas L. Shelm former
Tale football star, filed for prolate to- ,
day, leaves his estate of 33.S00.OO0 to
his widow and two children,
A large part of the estate is placed
in trust until the two-eJiBflren reach
the tfge of 30. "The money-then will
he 'equally divided betwtren them -Kttur
Shevlin will receive an annual income
of 360,000. in addition to money from
certain holdings.
AlthouEh Mr. Shevlin's Un was
heavily insured, only 325.000 is Datable
to the widow, 31.500.000 coing to two
companies of which he was head.
Plainoieu) Children Favor
. Fire Extinguishers Now
Plalnriew, Texas. Jan. 4 Children
of St. Mark's Episcopal church are
planning to have fire extinguishers
handy next Christmas when the Sun-
Lscht
has its annual Christmas
Christmas- the children
went home without any toys from the t
tree, because a candle on the tree I
set lire to some of the tinsel and
the entire tree, with its load of gifts,
burned up The church also was
threatened with destruction, but heroic
work stopped the fire before it had
done much damage to the building.
FEDERATED CHURCH IS
FORMED BY CHURCH VOTE
Flagstaff. Ariz. Jan. 4. By the practic
ally unanimous vote of both congregations,
the Presbyterian and Methodist churches of
this Dlaee ha e been consolldatf! u th
j Federated church of Flagstaff Re Thorn-
namoiv, 01 me jaemouist ennren, nas
been retained aa paMor and Charles C
Thorpe will act as Sunday school superin
tendent CO.VTE.ND IUI.CKK IK
1. KII.I.I; MCODK3II.S
Denver. Colo . Jan. 4 That James
C Bulger, condemned to hang the week
of Feb. 27 for slaj inp L. E Xicodemus.
Denver hotel proprietor, was suffering
under a paranoiac delusion when he
fired the fatal shot, is expected to be
the contention of alienists in the West
side court
This line of defence was begun at
the hearing Monday. Dr. Edward L.
Delehanty testified that he believes
Bulger now is insane.
SHtlUI LEAVES
HILI JPIS
l Almneannli Minn .inn 4
In the Trenches On the Firing Line
Ten Thousand Miles of Trenches Guarded by the Allied Armies; Disturbing a
German Lunch; Rats the Plague of the Soldiers. -
By II. WARNER ALLEN, British Official Press Correspondent.
LONDON. Eng., Jan. 4. In the sec
tion of the French line that I
, have just been visiting there are
' already, on a front of just over ten
miles, oter 2a4 miles of trenches. An
other 46 miles of trenches arc being
dug. so that by the end of the ear
there will be in that neighborhood 2t0
miles of trenches on ten miles of
front
1 Llsewhere out aivision has 250 miles
of trenches to look after one corps ,
I d'armee lias 450 miles. If one esti-
I mates that there are twenty miles of I
trenche ro every mile of front, then I
be'wen Switzerland and the North I
Sea the Brnisn ana irenen armies
have at least 10,000 miles of trenches
to guard.
The trcops ,n one part of the not Id
are rarlit-u-irH favoreJ. in maii c lses
I they have quarries to shelter in
1 quarries cut m the solid rock, extend
j mg for hundreds of square yards, be
neath tne suriace, ana prooi against
the biggest projectile
Returned fiom the trenches, seated
or squzittcd under tiny, flickering,
lsmps, tih'ch mark like glow worm
rays, the outlines of the caern walls
and pillars, the men will perhaps pla
cards. One catches glimpses of bearded
men. smoking bard, with their faces
OPERATED ON
ANESTHETIC IS
REFUSED IT
rail
Undergoes Operation With
Same Bravery Shown On
Mexico Battlefields.
DEATH FEARED
BY HIS FAMILY
Famous Old Man Reported
Sinking Slightly at Noon;
Operation on Left Side.
GEN. VICTORIAXO HUERTA was
operated upon a second time
Tuesday morning and his condi
tion is considered extremely critical.
It is not believed that the old Mexican
general will live through the night.
Dr. M. P. Schuster Issued a bulletin
, at one oclock, saying that his condi-
j tion was normal as was his pulse. The
operation was more extensive than be-
luic, .!? uuiicLin siateo. ana me lap
ping was done from a deeper area.
The operation was to relievo his suf
fering by removing gall from the gall
duct and was practically a duplicate
of the first operation which was per
formed on New Year's afternoon. The
second operation, like the first, was
performed at the general's home at 415
West Boulevard and was in charge of
Dr. M. P. Schuster, his personal physi
cian. ,
At noon Gen Huerta' s condition was
reported to be about the same although
fteCUCttvUIaiees.Jhat he was -sinking.
Tflfe operation was on the left
side and was performed without Gen.
Huerta taking ether.
A bulletin issued on Gen. Hnerta's
condition at 1.30 p. m.. said: "Gen.
Hnerta was tapped this morning and is
now resting comfortably. He is ex
pected to remain comfortable during
the afternoon."
Firnt Operation.
Gen. Huerta was operated upon Sat
urday afternoon when almost a gallon
of liquid was removed from his left
side. He underwent this operation
without an anesthetic and rallied from
it but was reported to be very weak
Sunday. A second operation was de
cided upon Monday, but it was post
poned because the general was too
weak to stand the shock of a second
one- .
His illness started while he was at
Fort Bliss. It was first thought to be
jaundice and be was taken back to his
home on West Boulevard for a short
time in order that he might receive the
care from senora Huerta and his fam
ilv. As soon as he had recovered he
was again taken to the fort and was
(Continued on face 2. Col. 3)
Go- To- Church Veek
This is a week of prayer in EI
Paso and services are being held each
evening in one of the churches of the
city. AH the Protestant ministers of
the city have united in the services
for the week, and the services are
alternating between the various
churches. The services will conclude
with monster meetings in all the
churches Sunday, which has been des
ignated as "Go to Church Sunday,"
when everybody in the city is urged
to attend some church.
bint lnternl; utxm their game: the
plaj nf liKi't and shadow on their
stainel u.iUcrms and their unstudied
attitudes making a true Rembrandt
picture.
The i-atac.nibr of old must have
looked like these French quarries and
to laaki' tlie illi stop complete, one came j
acio s a cliaicl, with an altar and its ,
cross nen in me soiiu rwn.
Thr General In the Trenches.
The tfiinal was kind enopgh to
i guide r.ie. s we went down towards
tl.e cnmir. he had a word for everv
man v. ual from the "nun com."
in . h-.rge of a section to the rawest I
recmit from Britany. or Savoie. j
is ihc souo eoodr asked the gen- !
er ii oi one at his m6rning meal
Ou. sfnn Cenernl!"
Tiiat's all right!" said the general.
. 'tin ii I -nppose I shall not find ou
kiikmtj the i-ook again toda"'
- i cacicu a efivik ,iw -- -
went round that there must lie no talk
ing We were near to tjie Germans.
"Now," said the general. -e will
stir ui tne Germans a little. It is
lunch time thev will be annoyed.
Disturbing tlir Germans.
e went to a shelter which protected
a new and simple appliance for throw
n. g high explosives. A shell filled
with a verv comfortable quantity or
melinite went out, and when It had
mm BANK CLEARINGS;
1915 UREASE IS S2D.731.G56
TAXK clearances for 1915 exceeded;
those of 1914 by J20.731.6a6 51. ac---'
cording to the annual report of
the El Paso clearing house, issued
Tuesday.
The total clearances for 1915 amount
ed to J11J.53D.883 54 for all of the mem
LA ISA STARTS
EFORBRIDCE
Delegation Confers With
County Commissioners
at Las Cruces.
La. Mesa. X M.. Jan. 4. Several La
Mesa citizens went to Las Cruces yes
terday to confer with the county com
missioners and petition them to have
a bridge built here, connecting the west
and east sides. This would be a great
help to the residents of this place, it is
claimed, as it is now, when the river
1 1.1..1. t. ..Bca., .n en tn thA
Mesauite or Anthony bridges. !
Auk For Strong Bridge.
Prof. J. C. Carrera, of El Paso, presi
dent of the company which has exten
sive iron ore mines in the Robleros,
about seven miles from Dona Ana, ap
peared before the commissioners, re
questing them to have the bridge which
will b erected in the near future near
Dona Ana, so constructed that it would '
earrv a load of 100 tons instead of 25
tons as designed. Prof. Carerra said
that the company has 15,000 tons of J
ore. which it will haul to the railroad
with a tractor and four or five trail- i
ers. Extensive development work has
been done aw the claims are patented f
TTlKSJnnn!sirohers wTrr6TnaT"tirr
can to have the bridge strengthened.,-!
BISBEE MINERS WILL
RECEIVE MORE WAGES;
Bisbee. Ariz.. Jan. 4 The Calumet
in IrfoAnn Mining ramnanv and the i
Superior and Pittsburg Copper com- j
nany management has announced a ;
new wage scale providing for higher
wages based on copper selling be
tween 20 and 25 cents a pound.
As nearly as could be estimated, the
wages of miners and muckers for
January, based on December copper
pioyes in the wage class will receive
37.10 a da. These wages are based
at copper selling between 20 and 21
cents a pound
ARIZONA STRIKERS REJECT
PROPOSAL OF COMPANIES
Clifton. Arlz Jan 4 Dr. A. V. Dye,
representative of the managers of the
Detror, the Shannon and the Ariiona
Copper companies, whose employes are
Inn sinivc bi ciiiiuii, jivi cuu aiiu .uct
calf, addressed the strikers here and
j at Morenci Monda
He proposed that the men return
their local charters in the Western Fed
eration of Miners and return to work
upon the former wage conditions and
promised the managers would return
from'EI Paso and resume operations.
The men rejected the proposition in
Morenci and Clifton
GEORGE GOULD SUES T. & P.
ON PROMISSORY NOTES
Xew York. Jan. 4 George J. Gould
began suit today in the supreme court
against the Texas and Pacific Railway
company to recover 31.741,000 on prom
issory notes which are held by the
plaintiff. Edwin Could. Helen Gould
Sheppard and Howard Gould, as execu
tors of the estate of their father, the
late Jay Gould.
reached its mark, there came a big
explosion. Ii was follewd by a second
shell.
"That will do." said the general:
"we have stirred them up now. They i
will be puzzled, for two isolated bombs I
shall f.et
We sta
are uncommon. In tnree minutes we
their reoly.'
I
tarted hai?lc towards the rttnr.
but before we had gone 50 yards, there
was a tremendous report, A minen-
werfer was explaining: to the Kreneh
that the Germans were much annoyed j
at having their lunch interrupted. I
Rats Plnue Soldier.
In the quarry quarters, they have no I
rats llAurhrA rat nr thn nlnflrtlA f
j of the soldier's life. They swarm
; pverj wnere, and nave multiplied im
i ni-nsel since the beginning of the
war.
"I am going to send you a aluable
reinforcement," said a staff major to
a colonel at a farm where we had been
resting "four terriers to catch your
rats"
"I shall be very thankful to have
them." said the colonel, ut they will
not be nearlj enouglu What I want
is rat poison and lots of It' The rats
have ac-tuall taken to attacking my
men' They are enormous great beasts,
and I suppose they are starring. When
they are chased down the trenches they
often turn and bite."
I
AGAIN
ber banks of the clearing house. The
total clearings for 1914 amounted to
39I.S08.227.
Clearances for December, 1315,
amounted to 310. "".le 518. which was an
increase of $2,487,8.16 over December,
1914. the total for December, 1914, be
ing 37.828.68J
D DA1AGES
ASTRO! STORE
Roof and Rafters Blown
From Brooks & McKamy;
Plate Glass Wrecked.
Anthony, X. M, Jan. 4 During the
wind storm here the roof and rafters
were blown from the Brooks & Mc
Kamy store building, leaving only the
ceiling. A large plate glass window
in the Jegers drag store was also
blown in.
13 Jurists Ate Together;
2 Have Died During Year
Saiita Fe. X. M.. Jan. 4. Of the IS
jurists who sat down at the dinner
given by federal judge William H. Pope
recently, two are dead. These are judge
Edward A Man of Albuquerque and ex
governor William J. Mills of East Las
Vegas.
At the dinner judge Mann is reported
to have said. "It is unlikely that all
of us will ever be together again."
ARIZONA BANKERS DO NOT
LIXE - ASSESSMENT - FORMS -
Phoenix. Arix,. Jan. 4. A strong protest
aaslnst the sank assessment forms prepared
MI
I
by the state tax commission was registered tne submarine crisis, told the president
at the aanaal eaavearioB of the Arizona As- j he had heard intimations that some
season- asaodauam by M. B. HazaHine. prest- I senators were going to assail the ad
deal of the Arlsmw Bankers' association. I ministration's course, which is practi
Mr. Ilaxeltlne said that the commission cally the course of the president, and
demanded to know where each dollar on that some others were gotng to attack
deposit with a bank came from, and that in , the Mexican policy.
many other ways its requirements were too
severe. The books of the Prescott bank of
which he Is president, he declared, would
not show some of the information called
for.
COLORADO IIUIUUCANE PUTS
WHIBS OIT OF COMMISSION
Denver. Colo.. Jan. 4. A hurricane
today swept Monument. Cok.. and vi
cinity, prostrating telegraph and tele
phone wires. Scores of poles were
prostrated. Telegraph, telephone and
railroad companies rushed crews to re
pair the damage.
THE DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate.
Met at noon and adjourned
out of respect to the memory .of
the late justice Lamar until
noon tomorrow.
House.
Met at noon.
Secretary McAdoo asked a
rush appropriation of 3100.0M for
rural sanitation and fighting ty
phoid and pellagra.
The administration rural cred
its bill was introduced.
The naval affairs committee
arranged to begin public hear
ings tomorrow, starting with
yards and docks.
Representative Campbell, of
Kansas, introduced a resolution
for the creation of an interna
tional federation of nations, to
preserve international law.
-
The Boy Scout"
bfc
A Story for Old and Young
JIMMIE KEEDKK. Boy Scout, and office boy for Carrol and Hastings, did
his daily good turn one August morning by giving to bis little sister the
dime he had saved up to take him by trolley ear to the Boy Scouts'
camp, for adie had longed fervently to see the movies and had not the price.
So Jiinmie, walking through the broiling heat, was overtaken by the Young
Man of VCall Street in his road racer. And he gave Jiramie a lift, till Jiramio
remembered that, in riding, be was not making a sacrifice. "Stop!" he eora
maixfotL "I got ter get out. I got ter walk." And the Young Man of Wall
Street, asked. "What is it a bet?"' And Jimnue told him about the Seout
law and the one good turn a day, and that it must involve some personal
sacrifice, ami how he had given up riding to the camp that his sister Sadie
might go to the movies, and so be must walk and not ride a step farther.
And out of the racing car Jimraie let himself down and waddled away on his
thin legs into the awful neat. And the Young Man of Wall Street remained
there where Jimraie had left him for a long time, thinking. And then be
drove to the nearest telephone and called up Jimmie's senior employer and
said eoinetliing to him that saved a business and a life. And the senior part
ner said something to the head clerk that brought joy to the latter and his
wife; and the Itcad clerk said something to his less fortunately situated
brolier that brought J to him and his wife. And the junior partner said
something to the head bond clerk that brought joy to him and bis affianced.
And she said something to bcr father that caused lreedora to find its way
into the heart of the maim rubber country, stamping out horrors that had
shocked the civilized world. And that night, out on Hunter's island, Jimoue
Reader toH Sara Sturgis, his bunkie, that bammy's rescue of a dog from
drowning was the best one good turn of the day. And then
Modestly Sam shifted the limelight so that it fell uHn his bunfSe.
But you wouldn't enjoy the story if we told you about it.
This is another of the new Rjchard Harding Daw Short stories and H
fifth of six purchased by The Herald exclusively for thw section. Opeakne;
chapters will appear in the Week End Herald. It will run just six days.
The Majority Leaders 'Avert
Flaying of Administration
At Hands of Minority.
SENATOR! ALL IS
LOADED FOR BEAR
Prepares a Resolution Em
bodying Drastic Queries
Anent, Mexican Affairs.
WASHIXGTOX. D. C. Jan. 4. An
expected attack by senate
Republicans upon the admin
istration's poller jn Europe and Mexico
was averted'todayby a hasty adjourn
ment within ten minutes after the con
vening of the upper house. The death
of the late supreme court justice Lamar
was the ostensible reason for the sen
ate's sudden adjournment Senate
leaders of the majority faction were
believed endeavoring to avoid an at
tack during the crisis arising out of the
torpedoing of the British liner Persia.
A meeting of the senate foreign rela
tions committee which was to be held
tomorrow at which the contemplated
attack of the rainorit was to have
been considered, has ios been deferred
until later In the week.
ilaon Apprised of Attack.
f - arHeja.tiejUy chairman-Stone.
the foreign relations committee, in con
ference with president Wilson over
ine international situation was up-
permost in the minds of members of
both senate and house as thev reas
sembled for the real work of the ses
sion ofter the holiday recess.
Senator Fall to Open Attack.
Senator Fall. Republican, of New
Mexico, had ready a resolution calling
on president Wilson to inform the sen
ate to what government he proposed to
accredit Henry Prather Fletcher, who
has been nominated for ambassador t j
Mexico He will introduce the resold
tion tomorrow and it is expected th
it will be made the vehicle for a gen
eral Republican attack, not only on M
Fletcher, but upon the Administration -Mexican
policy.
Resolution Is General Grilling.
i - - Qthev senators who share senatoi
Fairs views declare tne senate nas no
knowledge of a government in Mexico,
and that th,e last communication to
congress on the subject described a
condition of anarchy.
Senator Fall contemplates that the
president should tell the senate if the
government to which It is proposed to
accredit an ambassador is a constitu
tional one: b what means its recogni
tion was brought about: what assur
ances there are that it will be able to
fulfill promises of protection for for
eigners: what assurances have bee.i
crivAn for nrotection on the border.
.;. I what guarantees have been given fo.
religious ireeuom. ana worn replies
have been received to claims for dam
ages to American life and property.
Its terms are broad enough to involve
the entire Mexican situation and the
details of the negotiotions which led
to the recognition of the Carranza
i government.
Downward
v
