BARRE- DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 248.
UAHKE, VERMONT, T UK SI) AY", JANUARY 4, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE
2,829,263 MEN
HAVE ENLISTED
IN TWOMONTHS
Figures of Lord Derby's Re
cruiting Plan in Great
Britain, Revealed To-day,
Show Tremendous Acqui
sitions to the Service of
the Allies
1,150,000 UNMARRIED
; MEN IN THE LIST
The Figures Are for Period
from Oct. 23 to Dec. 15,
1 Which Was the Time Lim
it of the Trial of System
Before Conscription Was
Resorted To
London, Jan. 4 Lord Derby's recruiting
I figure for the period between October
23 and 15 show that 1,150,000 unmarried
men and 1,079,263 married men present
ed themselves for service.
One hundred and three thousand single
and over 12,000' married men enlisted
immediately, and 207,000 .single men and
nearly 222,000 married men were rejected
by the recruiting ollieers.
ST. OSWALD SUNK.
GERMAN GRENADE
OFFENSIVE FAILS
The British cabinet expected to
consider the draft compulsion bill
to-day. London considers further
changes in the cabinet possible
owing to a divergence of view on
thin problem.
Petrograd chronicles a continua
tion of heavy fighting on the front
from Volhynia to Bukowina, and
claims that Bussian forces are
continuing their advance -northeast
of Cy.eriiowitz, despite numer
ous counter attacks.
Paris reports the failure of a
Gorman hand grenade attack west
of Tahure in the Champagne, dis
trict. There has been great ar
tillery activity in Vosges.
INFLUENZA SPREAD
IS MOST ALARMING
EVER KNOWN HERE
at
Steamship Was in Service of the British
Government.
London, Jan. 4.-The Birtisli steam
shin St. Oswald has been sunk.
The St. Oswald was in the service of
the British government and presumably
was Bunk in the Mediterranean. Her
movements had not been reported since
Oct. 13, on which date she arrived at
Murdos island from Alexandria.
The St. Oswald was 3tl feet long, of
3,810 tons gross. She was built in 1005
Hiid owned by the British and Foreign
Steamship company of Liverpool.
McNEELY NOT REPORTED.
It Seems Certain That American Consul
' Was Drowned.
London, Jan. 4. The Peninsula & Ori
ental Steamship company has received a
dispatch from Malta saying that 11 more
survivors of the steamer Persia have
been landed, including Lord Montagu.
Kobert X. MeXeely, the American con
sul at Aden, was not among the sur
vivors landed at Malta,
Reports to Surgeon General Blue
Washington Tell of Prevalence of
the Disease in All Parts of
the Country, Together
with Many Deaths.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 4. The most
serious epidemic of influenza ever known
in this country is disclosed in the reports
before Surgeon General Blue of the pub
lic health service to-day. The reports,
which were from health ollieers, show
the disease is spreading at an alarming
rate and is causing many deaths.
Of the larger cities it is widely preva
lent in Xew York, Boston, Chicago,
Philadelphia, San Francisco, Seattle,
Cleveland and Detroit, the latter two
cities having, probably, 100,000 cases.
The federal authorities are practical
ly helpless in stemming the tide of the
epidemic. It must be dealt with by lo-,
cal authorities who, in turn, are relying
on cooperation from the public. In the
hone that the public will stimulate
this cooperation, Surgeon General Blue
has called for reports from all parts of
11. - i
WILSON TAKES
FULL CHARGE
OF SITUATION
He Returned to Washington
This Morning from Hot
Springs, Va., Where He
Has Been Spending His
Honeymoon, Having Been
Called Back by the Persia
Case
A DISTINGUISHED
N. U. GRADUATE
GRAVITY OF MATTER
FULLY REALIZED
No Cabinet Meeting " Until
Information Is Received by
State Department Con
gress May Also Take a
Hand
Gen. Grenville M. Dodge, Soldier and
Railroad Builder, Died at Council
Bluffs la. Had Adventurous
Career.
Council Bluffs, la., Jan. 4. Gen. Gren
ville M. J bulge-, distinguished soldier and
railroad builder, died at his home hero
yesterday afternoon.
Funeral services on Thursday will be
in charge of the Iowa National Guard
in accordance with Jen. Dodge wishes
expressed shortly before his death. Two
battalions of Iowa and Nebraska guards
men will act bb escort. Gen. Dodge's
three daughters will attend the funeral,
but his widow, who is in New York, has
announced that she is too ill to make
the trip.
COURT THROWS
PETITION OUT
TONY CHARLEY FINED
Two notable services to his country
assure Major General Granville Molten
Dodge a place among the history makers
110(18.
As a soldier his valor is attested by
the fact that four horses were shot from
under him in the battle of Pea Kidge,
and that he himself received wounds in
several battles.
As a pioneer in western railroad build
mg lie lias the Union Pacific railroad
whose line he located a,4 whose; con
struetion he superintended, standing to
day as a monument to his memory.
In the midst of the undertaking the
Civil war broke. Dodge, born at Dan
vers, Mass., in 1831 , was just. 20 years
old. lie had had some military training
at Norwich university, in Vermont, and
some experience fighting Indians. Secur
ing n colonel's commission from his old
friend, President Lincoln, he raised
drilled and equipped at his own expense
the 4th Iowa Infantry regiment.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 4. President Within two weeks Col. Dodge was
Wilson arrived at 7:50 this morning Ending his command against the rebels
FUNERAL AT M0NTPELIER
Of Joseph A. LaPointe, Who Died Last
, Sunday.
The funeral of Joseph A. LaPointe
who died in Montpclier Sunday, was held
at 2 o'clock this afternoon from the
home of J. J. Williams on Elm street in
Montpelier, Rev. L. O. Sherburne ofliciat
ing in the absence from the city of Rev
W illiani Shaw, pastor of Trinity church
The service was private. The bearers
were ICarlie Kidder, Edward Fuller, A
W. Bugbee and J. J. Williams. The body
was placed in the tomb at Green Mount
cemetery and it will be. decided later
whether the burial is to be in Montpclier
or at aitaticld.
$4,000,000 JEWELS LOST.
MONTPELIER
Heaton Hospital Annual Meeting Held
Yesterday Afternoon.
The annual meeting of the directors
of Heaton hospital with the election of
ofheers for the year ensuing was held
yesterday afternoon at the city hall with
a good attendance. The directors were
unanimous in the feeling that the pros
pects for the hospital are exceedingly
bright with a good sized endowment
fund and the institution in a splendid
financial condition. Miss Anne Crozier
was chosen as watron, which position
she has satisfactorily filled since the
steamer Persia. The members' of the
Maharajah's suite were aboard the ship,
but the Maharajah himself intended to
join at Port Said.
ONE DEAD IN HOTEL FIRE.
When the Persia Sank, Says Cairo Dis
patch to London.
London, Jan. 4 A Cairo dispatch to tbe
V : X- . Wt... 2 1.. tf
A . r V "M, departure of Miss Stockcr, and Miss
'!ra;,ah,.0f K,,rVm aValufHKatherine Crozier will continue as as-
"'.""' ""isistant matron. The following ollieers
were elected: President, Melville E.
Smilie; vice president, Herbert C. Glca
son; treasurer, Andrew J. Sibley; treas
urer, Charles II. Heaton; executive com
mittee, A. J. Sibley, chairman; Lucius
D. Taft, James M. lioutwell, Wallace
G. Andrews. The election of Mr. Heaton
as secretary marked the commencement
of the 20th consecutive year he has
served the hospital directors in that ca
pacity and it was after much persuasion
that he consented to again occupy the
position, and then only upon the condi
tion that he will be relieved from the
duties another year.
Tomorrow evening Montpelier semi
nary and Spaulding high school of Barre
will .open the basketball season of the
northern preparatory league, organized
last fall by members of the faculties,
the contest to be played at Armory
hall. The s Quinary has practiced faith
fully under the coaching of S. A. Dole,
who is center of the Logan Square rive
and promise to give other teams in the
league a hard fight for the leadership.
Mrs. Fred Greenough, who has been
from Hot Springs. Va., and went ininiO'
diately'to the White House to take per
sonal charge of the situation brought
bout bv the sinking of the British
steamer Persia.
After a brief conference with the
president, Secretary Tumulty issued the
following statement:
- "The president and the secretary of
state are taking every means possible
to obtain the cold facts in a grave mat
ter and will act just as soon as informa
tion is obtained."
The cabinet meeting scheduled for to
day, was cancelled by the president be
cause the state department had not yet
gathered complete information on the
Persia. Chairman Stone and several
in northern Missouri. Ilia gallantry soon
afterward at the battle of Pea Fvidge
won almost instant promotion to the
rank of brigadier general. He lost one
fourth of his entire command but he
saved the day for the federal army. He
again distinguished himself in the de
cisive battle of the Atlanta campaign
on July 22, 180J, when he defeated Gen.
Hood's desperate movement to the rear
of the Army of the Tennessee. y
Later while standing in a trench be
fore 'Atlanta, (Jen. Dodge was shot and
seriously wounded in the head.
After the fall of V lcksburg, he received
appreciative recognition trom oen.
Grant, being promoted to major general
and given command of the 18th army
corps.
j he hanging of Sam ' Davis, the con
federate spy who was captured in Ten
nessee, was one of the incidents of Gen.
Decides That Frank 0. Lee
Holds His Office'
' Legally
WATER SUPT. NOT
GOVERNMENTAL
But Manager for the City of
Barre Other Actions
in Supreme Court
But Prospects Are That He Will Take
Three Years' Sentence.
A fine of $100 and costs of condemna
tion and commitment was imposed on
Tony Charley in city court to-day, fol
lowing his plea of guilty to a celling
charge, entered before Magistrate II. W.
Scott two weeks ago. Representations
made to the court and Grand Juror Wil
liam Wishart by Tony Corey, who acted
as Charley's reprenentative in the ab
sence of R. A. Hoar, indicate that the
respondent will choose the alternative
sentence in the house of correction, a i
term of servitude that is not to exceed
three vears, accorfLnc to the sentence
paused by the judge. Charley was de
livered by bis bondsman into the custody
of Chief Sinclair and he will probably be
transferred to Rutland to-night,
Charley's appearance to-day Jor sen
tence and his plea of guilty entered late
in December at a moment when the state
authorities were ready to begin their
prosecution mark tlTe end of an illici
liquor case that has caused considerable
comment, chiefly because of the delays
that have marked the procedure. Char
ley's apartments in "Romania square" on
Prospect street were raided early in July
and again m the late days of August
SINGLE BID
ON PRINTING
City Report Job Seems to
Be Wanted Only By
N. J. Roberts
The petition brought by lie man E
Reynolds for the removal of Frank O. It was alleged that he had acted as a
Im from tlm office of water sunerin- bar tender for wholesale dealers and
, ,... , ,i.. j;,;ao,l there was it suspicion at police bead
I niiflrturs flint, tin man wua mtilrv of
1 it- t ' x . i. .1 : I 1 - . - 15 J .
uf me teiiiiuui, bujjicums v-uun, wu; gome very flagrant violations of . the
an opinion handed down by Judge Hasel-1 liquor law. His arrest, after the raid
ton. The title of the case was State of was followed by his temporary disnp
v. - ,i Hm. r TWmdda . pearance. Bail finally located him. in
' I Vnrth Adnms anil Iia wa liuL-ed fo to
UtA. ... T?. l, r T . , Tl, nniroo,, I ... . .
" "i""" turn at once. .Several times' the case
throws out the case with costs. ' was ready for hearing, but for one rea
In announcing his opinion Judge Has- son and another, it is said, a stay in
elton contends that the Barre city char
ter is silent as to the necessity of resi
dence for appointment to the office ; and
he holds that the office is not a govern
mental position but that the appointee
was acting as manager for the city.
Hence his decision in favor of Water
Superintendent Lee. The case was ar
gued in supreme court by E. L. Scott
and E. II. Deavitt for the plaintiff and
by William Wishart for the defendant.
Another Washington county opinion
was in the case of Patch St Co. and
Michael Pembrook va. First National
Hank of Montpelier. in which tbe decree
was affirmed and the cause remanded.
The decree was for the defendant.
In the Caledonia eountv court case of
Martha Mason vs. New England Tel. &
TeL Co., an opinion was handed down
proceedings was brought about.
GRANITE MUTUAL'S
ANNUAL MEETING
Waa Held To-day and Satisfactory Re
ports Were Indicated H. G. Wood
ruff Was Elected President.
At 10 o'clock this forenoon the annual
meeting of the Granite Mutual Insurance
company was held at the company's of
fices in the Aldrich building. Directors
elected for 1016 are: Frank C. Bancroft
of Barre Town, Oramel J. Dodge, Ernest
members of the Senate foreign relations, e 8 cw- "n i'avis were louna
committee have discussed the crisis with : ('oml"'le I""' fortification at
th nrosident. ( huh-man Sinn inU h ! Nashville, which, evidently, he had re-
president thev wanted to be prepared to 061 ved frora ,onl! federal officer high in
meet any situation that might arise, authority. Gen. Dodge offered the young
when the foreign relations meet to-mor-! W 1,18 freedom if he would reveal the
row.
The senator said ftfter talking with
the president that .until the facts re
garding the Persia are obtained, noth
ing can be done. "Any nation, he de
clared, "which outraged the United
States should be dealt with severely.
Stone told the president that there wera
intimations that some senators were pre
paring to make speeches on the sinking
of the ships, with the loss of American j
lves.
Later Chairman Flood of the House
foreign affairs committee also called at
the White House and conferred with the
president on the situation.
A TWnun ilnvanlm. f"!nri1nn A llnr- A
affirming the judgment for the defendant Sargent, William H. Sprague'of Chelsea
without costs to the plaintiff. In the r0i.n Trow Harrison !. Woodruff. F.du iii
case of Frank S. Hale, Lyman F. Cabot i)livjg f m,ite River Junction. George
SLIGHT IN'
IN CO
ASE
v'ER LAST
Matte ,rred by the City
C d to Printing
v " Committee
CONGRESS IN GRAVE M00D.
As It Reopens Members Discussed the
Situation.,
Washington, J). C, Jan. 4. Congress
reassembled to-day after a holiday re
cess, with the nation s foreign alfairs
ppermost in the minds of the members
of the two houses. On all sides the in
ternational situation was admitted to be
the gravest the country has yet faced
iiring the war. The issues growing out
of the submarine warfare of Germany
and Austria and Great Britain's inter
ference with neutral commerce figured
chiefly in the discussions fo the senators
and representatives. The situation
caused a general feeling of unoasiness.
Although the international situation
holds for the moment the chief interest
in Congress it is believed that the ques
tions of national preparedness will be
taken up at once.
$40,000 FIRE LOSS.
Five Others Were Injured at Waterbury,
Conn.
. Waterbury, Conn., Jan. 4. One man
was killed, five others were injured, and
the lives of (Ml guests were endangered
in a fire that destroyd the Hotel Con
necticut, in the heart of the business Bee-
tion early yesterday. The dead man was
George Case, 00, a, hotel employe. The
police say that they believe all the guests
escaped from the building.
The fire was under control shortly aft
er 1 o'clock. It. was confined to the hotel.
Six persons are in, a hospital.
Firemen rescued many guests after
great dilliculty. The dead man and the
five who were injured received their in
juries by jumping from third and fourth
story windows.
. .' For a time the flames, fanned by aj
high wind, threatened to spread to other
buildings, including the largest dry goods
store in the city and the ollice of the
Waterbury Republican.
The entire fire fighting force succeeded.
alter a hard tight, in conhning the nre.ot Ins brother, Lawrence Howard, onja little after 10 o'clock. They smelled
10 ine noxei. i ne joss is estimaiea at me r.asi .Montpelier road, u-ii io-uay
100,000. The blaxe started in the cellar , for his home in Detroit, Mich.
from unknown origin.
name of his informant, but the accused
man refused. Malf a dozen times be
fore sending the man to thj gallows,
On. Dodge offered him immunity. The
spy - went to his death with his lips
closed. He was the bravest man that
ever died, said Gen. Dodge.
In addition to his military service and
his engineering success. Gen. Dodge re
mained up to late in life an active and
influential man. Hu was elected to Con
gress the first year after the war, and
it was said that a promising political
life was before him, but he declined re
nomination, in favor of the rlilway pro-;
ject. He was later a delegate to the j
Republican national conventions of lSbS
and lK"fi. In 181)8 he was chairman of
the president's commission to inquire
into the management of the war with
Spain. He was for a time commander
inchief of the military order of the Loy
al Legion and an ollicer of numerous
patriotic organizations.
and Edward R. Buck vs. Windsor Sav
ings bank and AMndsor County Trust
Co., the decree was reversed with a man
date to be handed down later. This case
waa torn Windsor county. In the
Orange county case of Guy A. Osha vs.
Lelia M. Higgins, Luther J. Higgins and
Eben 0. Avery, the decree was reversed
and the cause remanded.
On the trial calendar there were found
to be 113 cases, but only 21 were set for
hearing at this term; 2!) were continued.
The 'following entries were made:
Dismissed: Ti. D. Martin, executor, va,
II. II. Beeman et a!, foreclosure; Chit
tenden county. J G
Settled and discontinued: F. II. Wright
vs. Town of Brighton; Orleans county
case. x
Discontinued: Frank 0. Purrington vs.
Gutave II. Grimm; Rutland county.
Discontinued; Xancy McCarty vs. Ar
thur L. Adams; Rutland county.
Settled and discontinued; James E.
Williams vs. Fred Jones; Rutland eoun
ty. Discontinued: Herbert G. and Frank E.
Barber vs. Watson S. French and Pcrley
r. Crown; Windham county.
Discontinued: H. II. Chamberlain vs.
H. C. Stratton; Windham county.
Settled and discontinued; Benton J.
Kent, II. William Scott and Rufus (J
Robinson, Reports indicated that the
company is in a prosperous condition,
with all losses to date settled
A subsequent meeting of the directors
resulted in the election of the following
officers: President, II. G. Woodruff; first
vice-president, A. A. Sargent; second
vice-president, If. W. Scott; secretary
and treasurer, R. G. Robinson; auditor,
Alexander Gordon
WELL KNOWN LUMBER DEALER
L. Johnson, Father of Mrs. F. H.
Rogers of Barre, Died To-day.
A telephone message received here this
morning brought news of the death of
(. L. Johnson of Johnson, X. H., a
prominent lumberman of northern Xew
Hampshire. Mr. Johnson's death at bis
home, which is near Xorth Woodstock,
occurred around 7 o'clock, after a brief
illness of pneumonia. His daughter, Mrs.
F. H. Rogers of Orange street, and her
husband were summoned to Xew Hamp
shire Sunday evening.
For many years Mr. Johnson's name
was closely associated with the develop
ment of the lumber industry in the
Gorman v. Josie Johnson Stoddard and north ,PHrt of X?v HamPhire- Inti,ne
100 MEN AND BOW
SEEK EX-MAYOR
OF WALTHAM
Rockingham Manufacturing Co. of Sa
lem, N. H., the Loser.
Salem, X. II., Jan. 4. The large two-
story wooden structure occupied by the
Thomas F. Kearns is Believed to Have
Wandered Away During Serious
Illness Police Send Descrip
tive Circular Broadcast. '
Waltham, Mass., Jan. 4. More than
one hundred men and boys to-day an
swered the call for volunteers to aid
in the search for Thomas F. Kearns, un
til yesterday the mayor of the city, who
has been missing inco Thursday. Led 1
by police and Isiy scouts, the party
pknued to search the woods and fields
on all sides of the city.
A printed circular bearing ihe picture
and ft description of Kearns was sent
broadcast by the police in the hope that
if Kearns wandered away while ill, which
John Udell; Windham county.
Discontinued: Brattlcboro Street Rail
way company vs. Thomas F. Betterly;
Windham county.
Dismissed: II. F. Tanton v. Dudley
Sterling and James J. Goodwin, trustee;
Washington county.
Discontined: Julia Campbell vs. Allen
C. Dellville; Washington county.
Settled and discontinued: Ernest R.
Fletcher vs. Woodbury Granite Co.
ashington county.
past he oiicrated several large mills and
cleared large tracts of timber land. Five
children survive, Mrs. Guy . Albee of
Hardwick is a daughter and Guy L.
Johnson of Boston, a former student at
Goddard seminary, is a son. The elder
Johnson was well known in Barre, hav
ing been a frequent visitor at the home
of bis daughter and with his son during
his residence here.
THE ROPE BROKE.
Settled and discontinued: Elizabeth
Mitchell vs. A. Tomasi; Washington And Would-be Suicide Was Injured in
Kockini'iiam juanutacturiiiiT comnanv.
making a two weeks' visit in the city manufacturers of boxes, window snslios
with relatives, left this forenoon foran( other such articles, was burned to '8 the general theory, lie may be recog-
her home in Havorliill, Mass. (the around late bint niht. cniisiiifT n iuzed.
Rex T. Howard, who has been making 'estimated loss of $40,iMNI.
an extended visit in the city as the guest The fire was discovered by passersby
county.
Discontinued: William Taey vs. Fred
A. Slayton; Washington county.
Discontinued: Parker A Young Co. ys
Robert Lawlor, W. J. Eaton and Gray
Mountain Lumber Co.; Jlennington coun
ty. Discontinued: Frank B. McCtobe ys.
wen MeCabe; Windsor county.
Discontinued: William C. Sanborn vs.
Blake Locke; Orange county.
Settled: Lamoille County Savings Bank
& Trust Co. vs. George L. Story; La
moille county.
His FalL
Hobson's choice, to accept or reject,
was left for the city council at its regu
lar fortnightly session last evening when
the clerk opened the sole bid on the
printing contract for the city report of
1915, X". J. Roberts was the only bidder,
and not alone for the reason that his
was 4hc single tender. received is it pre
dicted that the contract will go to him.
Tho Roberta printer', in its communica
tion to the council offered to print tho
report at $1.35 per page, tabular pages
to count as two, with 73 cloth-bound
copies at 40 cents each. :
Wliere councils in years past have had
three and four bids to consider, the city
fathers last night were faced with two
alternatives, to accept the lone offer of
Mr. Roberts or to reject it and readver-
tise. Characteristically, they passed
over the alternatives and referred tho
bid to the nldormanic printing commit
tee, with power to act, the action being
taken through a motion made by Alder
man Rossi. Samples of paper and bind
ing submitted bv " the bidding printer
were turned over to the committee for
further examination.
Last year the contract price was $1.25 -
er page, tabular pages counting as two,
with a price of 30 cents on cloth-bound
copies, llus year s vintage of adminis
tration history must be ready for the
perusal of the voters -by the middle of
February, which means that the various
city departments have less than six:
weeks in which to file their yearly re
ports. Complaint About Non-Collection of
Garbage.
Complaints from Park street and cer
tain Xorth Barre districts relative to ,
divers barrels of cumulative matter that
have been buried at the curb under a.
fortnight and more of snows brought up
the whole painful subject of garbage
collection again. It was stated that
Park street people had failed to see the
garbage, man collecting their deposits of
cans, etc., and when the informant re
ported that barrels set out two weeks
ago were still intact, the reason was
apparent. Summer street folks had the
same complaint and a man in Xorth
Barre reported that he had a bundle of
old feathers which had been ignored by
the collector. Xo action was tukeji, al
though the much discussed garbage col
lection system was mooted over and over
again.
Wanted Aid; Is Being Aided.
A case of dire poverty was described
in the following communication, but in
quiry developed the information that the
family mentioned is on the list of tho
charity department and receiving regular
attention.
To the Mayor: . (
Mrs. So-and-So of street writes
to you. I am going to take opportunity
of writing asking vou
A marriage license was issued yester-
smoke, investigated, and on finding that
the flames were issuing from the plant
of the woodwork company, immediately
DEATH WAS SUDDEN.
W. M. Sargent of South Royalton Passed
Away Yesterday.
South Royalton, Jan. 4. The com
munity was shocked yesterday by the
death of W. M. Sargent. About seven
o'clock his condition was siii-h that Dr.
Fish was summoned, and on arrival
found lu m suffering from convulsions, .i. ...h ,.,.., :
from which he died in a short time. The Vi. ir,i,. L-a.llln .i, L. ,
in the employ of Ir. .and Mrs. H. A.
day afternoon at city clerk's ollice to PPnt in nn alarm
Edwin K. Stone of this city and Mary t, j The entire fire fighting forces of Sa
Clouyh of Northtield. em. Salem Depot and Salem Center,
Frank Lamperti, Chandler Brown, with hundreds of volunteers responded,
Phillip Haydcn and George Brooks left but were unable to save the building,
last evening and to-ilay tor Burlington, i T,c niirht was the coldest of the sea-
to resume tneir studies at th.' Universi
ty of Vermont, which opens to-morrow,
after the Christmas vacauon.
Mrs. Dean Seaver of 37 Terrace street
left last nilit for Injr Bench, (.al.,
eue of death i not known. His fa
ther. Mark J. Sargent, died last Au
gust, leaving him in charge of the drug
business, and it is known that be has
licen rather despondent of late. .An au
t"Py a 'rf'umed in the afternoon.
He leaves a wife.
Hint for several yers, left last night
for Bangor. W is., for an indefinite visit
with relative".
sort and the streams of water froze as
they struck the burning building.
MARBLE PLANT BURNED.
Loss at Ashley Falls, Mass, Wat $100,000
Cause Unknown.
Ahley Falls. Mass.. Jan. 4. The plant
of the Southern Berkshire Marble eom-
NEARLY DIED FROM COAL GAS.
Poultney Woman and Two Sons Were
Helpless When Found.
Poultnev, Jan. 4. Mrs. Andrew I.
Wheeler and sons, Andrew and Basil,
narrowly escaped asphyxiation by gas
escaping from a furnace Sunday night
at their home on Norton avenue. They
were found in a helpless condition yes
terday morning by Mr. Wheeler and an
older son. Howard, who slept in another
part of the house ana who were not
affected by the gas. Dr. lough was im
mediately summoned. With her two
younger sons. Mrs. Wheeler occupied a
room in the front of the house.
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
i P"l
v. with its machinery and other
THAW ESTATE MUST SETTLE.
'for Charh'stown, X. H.
Among tlu.se w!io returned yesterday
, alli-MUH.n to Dartmouth college wee:
Pennsylvania Supreme Ccurt Rule, on ;,,, ,k.,.-w.r ,,,.,,;,. K)imir BnJ
Sanity Test Expense. Fr 1 L. fjtird. jr.
Philadelphia. -Ian. 4. The state court I Among the attorney in t!e citv t.tl
1111,1, Of 1.4. .1.1 i .. i r.. ... '
C. M. Spoon.T, former president of ' equipment here, was burned yesterday.
.Norwich university, who has been mak
ing visit in Montpelier, left last night
The loss is estimated at about $H.0imi,
The cause of the fire lias not been determined.
STRANGE DEATH CAUSE.
Walter G. Brown of Wilmington, a Mer
chant, Files in Bankruptcy.
Rutland. Jan. 4. Walter G. Brown of
Wilmington, a grocer, furniture and fur
nishings dealer, has filed a petition in
j bankruptcy in the offW of Clerk F. S.
J Piatt of ttie United States court through
O. K. HutterfieM as counsel. He owes
DEAVITT SUES C0RRY
Young Girl Fell on Mirror and Cut Her ; secured creditors 2.0!'7.!'7 and there are
For an Accounting in Connection with
Power Plant Financing.
County court, which was adjourned
temporarily the latter part of Xovember
to allow the presiding judge to sit at the
December term of Orange county court,
reconvened at 9 o'clock this ofernoon
with Judge K. L. Waterman and Assist
ant Judges Dale and Dana present.
There will he no jury trials, court being
held to clear the docket of matters vl
were not considered in the fall because
of the large number of civil and criminal
cases.
The first case heard to-day was that
of Edward H. leavitt against Frank M.
Corry, brought by the plaintiff to secure
an accounting from the defendant which.
it is alleged, was never made when the
Corrv-Dravitt-Frost company was dis
solved.
The plaintiff, represented bv W. B. C.
Sticknev and John W. Redmond, claims
that the defendant w from Oct. I. 1!'12.
until March 1. 191.1, the bailiff of the
plaintiff for 7.W shares of stock at par
value, I00 share, of the Corry-Deavitt-Frost
Electric company and 1ss) shares
at 2. a share of the Barre Jt Mont!x-
if vou would
make any gifts or give presents to its.
Would you give to six little children,
which has no father and a little, child
which has fits? Would you be as kind,
if you have old clothing, etc., to give to
the little children. Probably you know
the whole facts in our case. The writer
is a poor widow, takes in washings. I
kindly ask you to send them something,
n ti V nld eloflnnir or ttnvtliinnr 4a miiL-n
Poultney, Jan. 4. John Harry Jones I . .
l, i . j.. ., ...." f..i i ui . . . .
After the reading of the letter by the
clerk, the charity committee was inter
rogated, with the findings as already
noted.
of Depot street made an unsuccessful
attempt to commit suicide by hanging
at his home yesterday. He is in a se
rious condition from the fall sustained
when the rope, with which he attempt
ed to take his life, broke precipitating
him to the floor. He has boen in poor
health for some time and it is believed
that he became despondent on that ac
count. r.
He fastened a rope about bis neck
and, after placing one end over a door
which he closed, jumped off a chair. The
cord parted and the man fell in a heap.
He has a wite and daughter.
PUBLIC FUNDS TRUSTEES.
Gov. Gates Appoints for Middlebury and
Norwich.
Various Moneys Appropriated.
A resolution appropriating sundry
sums of money, was read by the clerk,
was passed to a second reading. The
following sums were incorporated in the
resolution: Permanent streets, $100;
streets, $1,000; lighting streets, $2,000;
street sprinkling. $1.0; sewers, $200;
surface sewers, $400; sidewalks, $500;
bridges and culverts, $.100; engineering,
$500; water. S2.000; salary. $1,000; mis
cellaneous, $500; city buildings, $1,000;
fire department, S2.00O; poor depart
ment. $2,000; health, $500; births and
deaths. $150: police department, $1,500;
insurance. $1,000; printing and station
ery, $500; interest, $2,000; dog licenses
and damages. $100; elections, $.150; driv-
Governor Gates has appointed Robert
E. Smith of White River Junction, Fred
T. Caswell of Derby and F. H. Earring- ;n l.arse. $.100: assessine taxes. 00
ton of Brandon as members of the board ' cemetery trust funds. $500; Helen Wood
lnff of trustees of the public funds of Mid- fund, $20.20.
" " dlebury college. He also has appointed
Col. Herliert T. Johnson of J?radtord a
trustee of the public fund of Norwich
university, to act in conjunction with
State Auditor H. F. Graham and General
Lve S. Tillotson.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Throat.
y. fterday .Widi d that the estate ,.f
iUrry K. Than shall l-ar the r:cne vf
an exsni.nat iiiii of Thaw's sanity and
lli-t the tlil-Ni-s of tire rtte, 1 ,e ae
tattie tii tr.'o-r court from the orphans'
curt AH. ghi-py oumt v sr.) grew .!
of . :Vit of Tiaw to' have the i
rii'.rt t-f :n..nc ai ! lo it ni. TI.j j
?-k eve- ft wr t' Vt" ajr t .f -.1.
I";' i f ltois Cat 'vannc'd Liai.
attend Hie i jh mug ol the January tcim
of supreme .-vmt at X't ohvk this
morning were: Alexander Doiinett. St.
-lohnsbiiry ; t larke C Fitts. J!. ('. Huron
and l:. V. D. Pijsr. Lraitieb t; V. P..
('. Mi.Vrey. I.n i!nn ; Wain, r A. Ita
'a in.. !'!! Fall-; I. F P.i-.n, I.ur-5-i'gt.
;; Harry V. V. ittr. M. Johns
I'll v: '. A. I- it";. Haidnick; Warren
1; A.i ti-i, t. Ai!..
i nc. X. H., .Tan. 4. A young daugh-
S5 unsecured creditors whose claims g
Igregate $5.4113.7'. The assets are Pi.
j lier Traction 4 Power company and nev-
,(.i7.
Actions in Probate Court.
In probate court to-day M. E. Dimirk
of Kl'hmond settled 1
t-ator of tl
k, l-te-of WSarr.
Mr. and Mrs. Chester Meaker bave re
turned from Montreal, after a short
honevtnoon. The liride was formerly
Miss Kuby L. Dueliarme of South Barre.
The couple were married at the Meth
odist parsonage Dec. IS bv Rev. E. F.
Xew ell.
The Boyce-Wbite monument, recently-
set in hlmwood cemetery, lias Is'cn the
On the favorable report of the wiring
inspector, permits were granted In the
following applications to wire: Canton
Bros., to wire for one five-horsopower
motor: Vermont Manufacturing com
pany, for .1-. 15- and one-borsenower mo
tors; W. O. Simpson. 12.1 Washington
treet. to wire for barn lights. John R.
Tierney was granted permission to build
a piarra at 4" South Main street on the
favorable recommendation of the build
ing inspector.
Bills Ordered Paid.
Warrants were approved for payment
in the following order: Allen Lumber
company. fI2o, cement and lumber,
street and bridges and culverts accounts;
C. W. Averill A Co., $21.55. supplies.
street, sewer, vater, city building and
er rendered a reasonable account and; object of mar.r favorable comments for fij-e ac-onnts; Cutler Pro., $5. blanket.
also that the defendant was receiver of.it distinctive character of ihigti, which
money amounting to $75." from the
j Tennev company and never rendered a
reasonable account.
Ihe defendant, with Harry C. SiinrtletT
in
Ke
ter of William Mackey at South Keenc
came to her h-at!i yesterday afternoon
by accidentally cuttinc her thn-at.
The l.ttle L'irl was standing on a stool
with a looking t'lss in her band. In
tiyi'ii to tcp d m n. she fell, and the j mil
-'caking g!a- nn. 1 weund- from uIim-a-! I'm
she rli I hi fore a ph an coiil-1 I .(ennette t"iminc!jim. Ute of Cabot, ' plaintiff seeks to recover an additional eneciited by the Carswrll, W ' d more- cm
kuiiioiou-ti
the main part is of the Tuset-n order.
ISccause of the simplicity of t!x- des gn.
the monument lias a very chaste and re
f.ned appearan'-e. A particularly notice-
iis accounts as ad-jas counsel, represent that the plaintiff j able feature is the fact that the bases Munt: torsojidat
fate of Maria A. iwncl 25." as hi share and that it I were cut solid and the cap and plinth j el-l. l -'' tin2.
n; and the will of j represented the full payment. The'al-o. The monument was designed and i tuiM.ng and fire a
street department: ergineering depart
ment. 20.7''. service, street and sewer
departments; X. D. Phelps Co.. $71.55.
supplies, street, sewer, surface sewer,
bniires and culvert, ter and fire ac-
-l Lij,htir,f company,
street lirlting. nty
c-ounU; Howard Co'a,
pn-sented for -rebate.
UfcBl W.utl 6a Li'i juki-al.
i
