V
..
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
v
$
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
,
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS f,SffSS!St
1 Yt Jfff
7. Ilil; .
I II II II 11 1 II M M II i) f 1 11(1 ; 1 I I
IMEJ
PRESIDENT TIES UP
SUBMARINE QUESTION
Nothing Can Be Done Concerning the Persia Until Facts Are
Learned Through Official Sources President Issues
Statement Admitting Situi Is Very Grave, Even
Critical-Diplomatic Tangle da Almost Hopeless by
Recent Events Unless Action uhmarine Is Voluntarily
Disavowed
Washington, Jan. 4. While Waungton was tense and
conditions much like those preceding the Spanish-American
war, President Wilson, back before scheduled time
from his honeymoon, took prompt, energetic steps in the
new, grave crisis in America's international situation to
day. Within five hours of his hastened return, he had issued
a statement showing that the administration considers the
torpedoing of the Persia with loss of .American Consul
McNeely's life is an extremely grave situation.
"The president and Secretary of State," said the state
ment given out by the president's secretary, "are taking
every means possible to obtain facts in this grave matter
and will act just as soon as information is obtained."
The president, too, conferred with congressional lead
ers, including Chairman Stone of the senate foreign com
mittee and Chiarman Flood of the house foreign commit
tee, and he called a meeting of the senate foreign commit
tee for tomorrow.
While he decided not to call a cabinet session today, he
summoned Stone and Flood to discuss the situation with
them in order that he might have their co-operation in
case a breach in relations with the central powers becomes
necessary as a result of the wholesale slaughter of non
combatants within the Mediterranean "death zone"
recently.
After these conferences, it was officially stated that no
fiction will be taken until further details of the Persia
case are at hand. However, the intensity and delicacy of
the situation permeated the White House, the state de
partment, congress and diplomatic circles. Un every
hand, the talk showed that authorities looked at the.
recent torpedoings, following so closely on Austria's
Ancona note, as presenting an ominous situation.
As n result of their conferences, Stone
and Flood prepared to prevent discus
sion of intornntiunnl problems on the
floors of congress.
Adjournment of the senate eased this
t islt, inasmuch ns several there were
primed for n verbal explosion.
The president mid the chairmen dis
cussed all eventualities, and the freest
consultation and co-operation between
congress and tho Vhlto House was as
sured if breaking of diplomatic rela
tions becomes necessary,
Wilson Issues Statement.
Washington, Jan. 4. President Wil
son issued h statement today in which
lie admitted that tho situation between
Austria and America is very grave. He
is co-operating with Secretary Lansing
in an effort to get full facts as to re
'lit submarine activities, and as soon
n these, are obtained, lie will act
promptly.
The statement issued through Secre
tary Tumulty siiid:
"The president and secretary of state
are taking every means possible to ob
tain facts in this grave matter, mid
will net just as soou as information is
Obtained."
The grave matter referred to was Hie
sinking of the Persia and other liners,
f dlowing closely on Austria's reply in
llio Ancona case.
ifc oc jft )Qt 3ft sjt sfc sfc sfc sfc s)c 5c )c s(
Abe Martin
Any fool kin git
! it it takes u geur
la th' lime light
rul t' stay there,
homo no matter
liter's mr.ny n drab
low th' house is pai
utcil.
9
Tho president decided not to call the
cabinet today but he conferred with
Chairman Htonc of tho senate foreign
affairs committee nnd will confer with
K.crctnrv T.ntiHinff in an effort to cath-
I or all availublo evidence In tho Persia
sinking.
That the situation is very critical, the
White House ndmitted unreservedly.
After his conference with tho presi
dent, Henator Stono declared that the
administration at present lacks' factB
concerning the Persia, and that nothing
will be done until these aro obtained
llo told the president concerning the
plans of different members of the for
eign committee to delve into the inter
national situation.
Chairman Flood of the house foreign
affairs committee followed Htone to
llio White House, and it was learned
that the president had summoned both
From this it was assumed that ho per
haps desires to take them somewhat in
to the confidence of the administra
tion. Officials do not regnrd evidence thus
fur nt hand in the Persia case as con
clusive of torpedoing. Navy authori
ties say that possibly she struck a
mine, and support of this theory they
pointed to tho fact that the quicK
plunge she took made the torpedoing
theory somewhat doubtful.
The presence of guns aboard the Tcr
sin compllenles future rather thnn im
mediate nctinn. The main fnct of no
naming remains.
It is improbable that n submarine
could see guns on the Persia; nnd
whether these were for offensive or
defensive action is a question for fu
turo discussion in the matter of technic
nlities. Russians In Galicia
Oifensive Grows Serious
By J. W. T. Mason.
New York, Jan. 3 With the KussinnS
now 35 miles inside of Galicia, their
offensive is assuming serious propor
tions. The center of the fighting, at Buci
acz is within 2." miles of the main rail
way to Leiuberg from the southeast.
The HukowiuR campaign is moving to
ward the Carpathians, but the Iiussians
must first occupy Czcuuowitz, The
Teutons must retire from the Rumanian
border to the positions where they
withstood Russian attacks Inst winter.
In this manner, the first condition
governing Rumania's participation with
the allies will have been met, for after
the Carpathian posses are in Russia's
power, the czar may biiv Rumania's as
sintnnce. Operations before O.ernowitz
are preliminary to such a situation.
There is, however, no promise of suc
cess yet, though all evidence shows that
a major effort is intended.
GERMANS WIN ON LAND, ALLIES HOLD THE
NORTH f?:jt Yo PT
Z rLlnHi jrZ HUNGARY A
Mao
In tho year 1915 Teutonic arms lave
conquered an area greater than Ccr-
many.
The kaiser and his allies have over
run tho rich industrial and farming na
tions of Poland, Lithuania and the Bal
tic provinces; have wrested Galicia and
TO PAY
Hard Hearted Agent Also Re
fused to Pay Ladies' Ex
penses Home Later
By Charles P. Stewart.
(I'nitcd Pross staff correspondent.)
Copenhagen, Jan. 4. Several women
delegates of tho Ford pcaco expedi
tion fluttered excitedly up to Business
Manager Plantiff today. In a cooing
manner, befitting peace doves, they in
quired whethor Henry Ford, "nngel"
of tho expedition, would pay for the
gowns in which they wish to make a
brilliant showing at next week's con
ference at Tho Hague.
Tho answer NO.
Sevcrnl delegates wonted to stay in
Europe a whilo longer and asked if
Ford would pay their way home when
they wanted to go. But Plantiff blast
ed this hopo, too, by announcing that
if they did not sail with the entire
party on tho liner Rottordnm January
12, they would havo to pay their own
fare.
Inasmuch as Madame fichwimmor,
Hungarian peace advocato, was instru
mental in obtaining permission for the
party to cross Germnny, tho newspapers
today agreed that this wrecked the Inst
possibility that tho allies might favor
the expedition.
Stockholm is gonerully favored by the
delegates as the seat for tho permanent
peace tribunal, which Ford plans to es
tablish. THE FIRST INDICTMENT
Portland, Ore., Jan. 4. The first in
dictment under tho new prohibition lnw
was returned by the grand jury today
against Uus Anderson. Anderson was
arrested last night. He is said to have
admitted his guilt. .
Topoka, Kans., Jan. 4. Be
cauro, railroad officials say, a
disastrous slump in local passen
ger business has been occasion
ed by vast numbers of automo
biles in Knnsas, representatives
of the railroads will today nsk
tho Htnto Public Utilities com
mission to grant them aa in
crease from two cents a mile to
three cents a mile on passenger
rates. They have Tabulated
henvy statistics Id help prove
their case against tho auto
mobile ft
showing territory won by Germans In
Bukowina from their enemies: have
""fhed Serbia; have stood off the op
posing armies on unuipou, tno Italian
border and the great siego lino acrosB
France and a cornor in Belgium; have
hurled back reeling the British Indian
invaders of Mespotamia.
On the other hand, tho solidarity and
CHERRIANS HELD
I
Fun Was Fast and Furious
from Opening Ode Until
Lights Went Out
TWENTY-TWO NEOPHYTES
ARE GIVENWHITE WINGS
Kay Sings, Huckestein Talks,
Rodgers Criticises, and All
Get Gay
With tho initiation of 22 members
into its organization, the Chen inns held
their third annual banquet nt the Ma
rion hotel last evening. King King
Kay surrendered his purple gown and
golden crown to his successor, F. G.
Deckubsch, and the 22 candidates were
properly initiated and started on the
road that all good Cherrians travel.
Cheered oa by tho suggestivo mottoes
facing them on all sides, such as "Good
bye, I'm going to bo an angel," and
"Man is dust, but wnen ho alls from
the wuter wagon, his mime is mud,"
the anxious candidates wero led to a
table set with tin plates and iron knives
and forks nnd permitted to partake of
the banquet, to prepare them for that
ordeal to follow.
With the serving of the banquet, the
Cherrians were entertuined with tho
singing of three cubarnt girls from the
Oregon grill, Portland, and the Hcotch
sougH by Donald McGregor.
Tom Kay's Swan Bong.
Tom Kay delivered his King Bing
swan song, responded to by George F.
Rodger in which Mr. Rodgers compli
mented the King as being the only
Clicrrinu who could get a hair cut with
out titkiug his lint off.
Governor Wlthycombe, tho lienor
guest believes Hint the industrial de
pression was fast disappearing nnd
cheered the spirits of the ('herrinns by
predicting a return of good times for
the year 1HHI. August Huckestein dis
claimed any intentions of looking at tho
(Continued on Faire Bix.
IHCAiVALA
1
BANQUET
SEA AS YEAR CLOSES
1915,
resolution of the entonto allies seem ns
strong as ever; tho British navy re;
tains absolute control of tho sea; and
the undoubtedly tor tno moment victor
ious Oormany is facing a serious food
famine which fills hor newspapers with
Bucn pcaco tallc as Is practically mi'
known among her opponents.
ENGLISHMEN ARE II
ANXIOUS TO ENLIST
Ofiicial Figures Show Only 53
Per Cent Responded to
Lord Derby's Call
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press Btnff correspondent.)
London, Jan. 4. .Scarcely more than
half of IJngliind's men of military ngo
camo forward to the. call of "your king
nnd country needs you," while I.ord
Derby's conscription campaign was on.
Figures obtained today showed 2,82!t,
201 enlisted out of 5,011,411 subject to
service.
This means that only 53 per cent of
Knglnnd's nvailnblo fighters volunteer
ed. These figures, announced officially,
wero given out to Bhow the failure of
tho Derby schemo nnd to provo that
conscription is necessary. At the same
time, the cabinet completed its conscrip
tion bill to force un incrcaso in Eng
land 's enlistments.
Attention was called to tho 'fact that
051,100 men can bo added by draft
ing only unmnrried men, not urgently
needed in other occupations.
It was understood, however, thut the
government will not draft married men
for tho prosent. It is probable that it
will call upon a part or all of tlio 001,
100 unmarried above mentioned.
WAR ODDITIES
London, Jun. 4. Tho Trince
of Wales has worn out five uni
forms since ho went to tho front
in November, 1915.
t THE WEATHER :
Oregon! Gen
erally fair to
night nnd Wed
nesday, colder
east portion;
north easterly
winds.
DESPERATE FIGHTING FOR
MASTERY OF ADRIA
Montenegrins Hold Mount Lowcen, Which Commands Caitaro,
the Austrian Naval Base On the Adriatic Plan With Aid
of Allies to Drive Austrians From This Base, and Teutons
From the Sea For Six Days Battle Has Raged, But the
Soldiers of Montenegro Fight Heroically and "Hold
the Fort" .v
Rome, Jan. 4. A desperate and important struggle for
mastery of the Adriatic is raging near the Austrian town
Cattaro, normal port outlet for Montenegro, between
Austrian naval and land forces and the Montenegrins.
The Austrians are determined to capture Mount Lowcen,
"the Gibraltar of the Adriatic" on the Gulf of Cattaro, for
its retention by the Montenegrins threatens the Austrian
holds on Cattaro.
This hold is important by virtue of the fact that since
the war started, Austria has made Cattaro her naval base
for operations in the Adriatic, Aegean and Mediterranean.
The place is impregnable from the sea, while from land it
can be attacked only from Mount Lowcen, where the
Montenegrins a year ago installed heavy artillery.
For the past six days, the Austrians have been attempt
ing to drive out the Montenegrins. If the Montenegrins
can hold their positions, they plan later, with allied assist
ance, to drive the Austrians from the base. But until the
Austrian grip on this point has been loosened, the Teutons
can continue to dispute allied naval supremacy .in the
Adriatic.
i
London, Jan. 4. Premier Asquith to
day confirmed reports that Hit John
Simon had resigned from tho English
cabinet. His announcement was mudo
in the houso of commons fallowing a
two and a half hours' session of the
cnbinet from which Simon was ab
sent. Desplto contrary reports, tho Chron
icle today said positively thut Ireland
will not bo included in tho scopo of tho
conscription bill tho government is in
troducing this week.
Although reports havo been current
for several days that other members
would quit ob a result of forcing con
scription on tho .nation, every othor
member attended the cubinot session.
Himon was n liberal, who served as
attorney general In tho previous cabinet
and was given tho homo affairs post in
the coalition cabinet.
There was talk at first of tho war
that he planned to quit, becauso of his
opposition to tho struggle, but was do
terred from this by reason of Ger
many's violation of Belgium's neutrality-
Culled to tho Colors.
Loudon, Jun. 4. Hlnglo men be
tween the ages of 23 and 20 inclusive,
who enlisted under tho Derby recruit
ing enmpnign wero called to tho British
colors today and must report February
Sth.
The call followed tho cabinet session
and It means tho leinforeement of tho
Hritiuh Iroops by tcvcrnl hundred thou
sand. To Censor American Letters.
Loudon, Jun. 4, American corres
pondence to und from tlroat Britain
will bo censored hereafter, according to
official i.'ii.ouncomcnts todny.
Letters to iouiKn hnve been censor-
d for months. Th i new order applies
to mail troin America to r.nglund.
2,100,000 Prisoners.
Berlin, Jan. 4. The central all!
have taken 2,400,000 prisoners slnco the
beginning of tho war, It wits estimated
today.
Scene In Parliament.
London, Jun. 4. l.nborites, support
ed by radicals, created a see no in the
house of commons today by denouncing
the government for suppressing Hcotch
newspapers.
BUBSOILINO HTJERTA
F.I Tiiso, Texas, Jan. 4. After per
fnrmiup u second onerntion lust night
upon General Huertn, his physininns
planned today to operate a tlilrd time.
Ilo Is suffering from jnUndire and gall
conditions, but doctors said ho passed
ns enmfortablo night ns could bo ex
period It. tho circumstances.
LA GRIPPE EVERYWHERE
Washington, Jan. 4 Lngrlppo
has its grip upon tho bind from
New York to Han Francisco,
with only Hun Diego, Dallas and
Mobile immuno from an epi
demic, Tho worst of the grippe,
however, Is centered In Now
York. Chicago, Clevolnnd, Phila
delphia, Boston, Henttle and De
troit, Recording to reports to tho
United Htntes public health
service.
IC
250 TO 300
Women and Children Slip
Down Her Decks to Death
As She Turned
London, Jan. 4 Hcenes of horror pre
ceded tho plunge of tho P. & O. liner
Persia, victims of u submarine in tho
Mediterranean.
Hho turned turtlo whilo lifeboats wcra
gutting away from her side. Tlio wave
washed more than a score of passengers
from, tho deck. Theu too giant soil
dipped shurply, sending shrieking wo
men and children Blippmg into tlio wa
ter.. Buforo the eyes ot survivors, sht
rolled ovor and went down whilo u stora
still clung to tho decks.
Tho admiralty today abandoned hope
that American Consul McMooly had
been saved, although 11 persons includ
ing Lord Montagu wero reported in
Into advices to havo lundud at Mnltn.
Officials still estimate that from 2U
to .100 persons perished.
At tho sumo time, tho owners of tho
torpedoed liner (llengylo said, she did
not carry over five passengers and that
theso wero saved.
Consul Mc.Nuely wus in tho cabin
when tho ship wus nit, and was ono
of the lust to reach the deck, survivors
said. Most of the other passengers
wero at luncheon, without a thought of
danger.
Tlioso on deck strapped on life belts
whilo. the crew worked with the life
boats. Nearly 70 crowded Into on.
boat; when it struck tho water, the
waves lnpped over it nnd threatened
to sink it. Thereupon some wero trans
ferred to another boat.
Many survivors leaped from tho ca
reening ship or were washed from the
deck before she sank, Hevernl floated
for hours, dcHpcrntcdly clinging for an
hour or more to bits of wreckage,
Tho sound of hymns rose from thosn
in tho lifeboats, above tho screams of
women and children, as survivors strug
gled In tho wuter nlongsidu tho Persia,
Charles H. flrnnt of Boston said today
at Alexandria, according to press dis
patches. Grant, liko many others, was at lunch
eon, ho said, when there came a sadden
explosion ns though tho boiler had
blown up. In orderly manner, tho pas
sengers wont on deck.
The starboard bnnts could not rwi rxit
nvorside because of the listing. Grunt
himself slid off the ship, entangling
his foot In a ropo ns ho went but jerk
ing it loose after some effort. Ho fin
ally was picked up and then and after
rowing around some tlmo wns taken
nbonrd by a British cruiser and taken
to Alexandria.
Ho indicated that the vessel sunk
with great ropidity.
Attack Without Warning.
Washington, Jan, 4. Further
evidence that American Consul XTc
Neelr lost his life in the sinking of tho
liner Persln, and that tho vessel was
attacked without warning camo today
In a report to the stato department by
(Continued on Page Vive.)
