* ? A *
?*? # F3t?,\ 'V- 4.*>lv
v,*\ X' 1 ?.. *
1 *? ? - " ? * " - ?
? ?>.',?? .:sr -
'??'
"Best Cartoons'
Reproduced Daily from T.-D's
Latest Exchanges
IJirfjmoni* STiracsi ?
Society Doings
See Miss Witts Newsy and Ac
curateReporis in The T.-D.
66th YEAR
VOLUMB no
M'.M lilCIl I !l()
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, JULY 9, 1916. -FIFTY-EIGHT PAGES.
?CLOUDY
PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
BRITISH, IN CONJUNCTION WITH FRENCH, I
IV1AKE HALF-MILE GAIN AGAINST GERMAN^
Belte^d They Will Suggest
Direct Meeting of
Conferees.
LIKELY TO BE HELD AT SOME
TOWN IN UNITED STATES
Newspapers Unanimous in Opin
ion That War Has Been
Averted.
CI.OSI-; WATCH KKI'T ON HQHDKIl
American Troops So Disposed as to
Prevent Bandits Cross
Ill^ River.
Hundreds Massacred
by Yaqui Indians
.V 0<? A I.ICS, A It I/... July. <v?from
2'N) to ilOO Inrrnnm nulillrm mill
cnnip folionorn wi-ro iniiHKitered l?y
llronoho l'n<|iilM rurly tlilx iKPk In
lourr Sonnrn, ncrnrdlnK to nrrlvnl*
lirre tu-ilny. Tltonr of lite de fnetn
dplnclimpnt not ktllnl liv ennflrr, II
uni< nnlil. wrrc burned nl tlie Mtnke.
W hllr peport* pln?-c tin* number
of ilrml n( .".(Hi. ronmTtnllvc rnll
iiintro put tin- limn ill 'JIKt.
\ru? of tlir illxnntrr <o the f'nr
rnn/n t nrrr* linn rnimril cilrpinf
iinrrnt it in oil k tin* nfvrriil tliniixnml
VmiulM iiml MnjiiH now nt Kmpalme.
MK.Nl''" ?*ITV, .July e.?Several
prominent leaders of the do facto bov
eminent nie.t -it the National Palace to
day, mill, il is uiidersto-xl, preliminary
consideration was Riven to the sug
gestion in tho latest note from Sc.'ro
tary IjauslriK that the Mexican govern
ment propose s "in e practical j>l:ui
through whl'-h th<* diriietilties nov ? \
isting hot ween the two covornni':iiis
might be solved. While the i^ro..1, :
secrecy was niaJntai'i'-d. It became
Known that two plans wire ? ? >n.-id
ered.
<>ne ??:? 11 ? ? 1 for a telegraphic onfor
i-nce. with direct ivirc- between the
conference rooms in Washington and
Mexico ?*lty. Tho other wKs tha? the
delegates of the two government- meet
at some isolated town In the 1'nited
States, preferably a summer resort, to
discuss plans for Joint action.
It is said that none of the conferees
expressed any objection to holding1 the
conference in thfi I'nlted States, and It
is believed that when a decision is
finally reached, probably within the
next forty-eight hours, the plan of a
direct meeting will ho adopted.
a nstii.i ti:i.y xothim;
ykt nr.rmr.n i i*o.n
At I he Korcisn Otlice it was said that
absolutely nothing had v< t been >\f
? ideil upon. It was admitted, however,
that, in view of Secretary I.atising's
suggestion, s- nie plan for a. ? onforen e
??vonId be proposed very .shortly.
Newspapers here are enthusiastic
over the now proposal, and are unani
mous in the opinion that war between
Mexico and tho I'nlted States has been
averted.
There are no Indications as to the
probable personnel of the commission,
por have the specific points to be dis
cussed been decided upon definitely.
Newspapers here, to-day publish a
story that a group of New York hank
ers has offered to loan the Carranza
government f 100,000,000. Hditorlally
it is stated that with this new move,
the Mexican financial situation is in
a fair way to being settled.
SKKKIMi TO OAl.N" CJOOI)
WI1.I. OK 1,ATI X-A M 1311IC A
The de facto government, In its cam
paign to gain the good will of l.atin
America, made public to-day a circular
cablegram, which is being sent to the
leading newspapers of Cuba and Cen
tral and South America. The message,
which comments on tlie recent exchange
of notes between Washington and the
de facto government, says:
"The American people praise the con
ciliatory attitude of the government of
Mexico, and consider the conflict, which
was on point of breaking out, to have
been settled definitely without smirch
ing the dignity of Mexico. We will
proceed actively to reorganize legations
in Central and South America with a
view to bringing about closer relations
between Spanish-American countries."
The new campaign is proceeding with
all vigor. The de facto government
already has named ministers to sev
eral of these countries, or will desig
nate them In the near future. Argen
tine. Cuba and Nicaragua have named
officials for their respective legations
here. Plans for the celebration to
morrow of tho first centenary of the
Argentine republic have taken an elabo
rate form, and will be. participated' in
by residents of Mexico City anil 'other
largo cities of tho republic.
TIIOOPS ItHADY TO MI3I0T
AMY THRKATRNKD HA III
SAN ANTONIO, TI3X., July S.?For
more than 210 miles eastward from
111 Paso American troops were being
held >;i readiness to-day to move to
any point on the border that might he
threatened by the newly organized
(Continued on .Fourth PageT)
1 Helps Direct A.llied Drive
(?fiirrnl I*. K. W . Turner. \ , I ? n Cji
niirilitti. v\h<t In reported in lie one of the
gencrnlK illrrflliie the Ki'i'lit allied
<trl ve.
THREE PERSONS KILLED"
I)r. O. <Wright, Clifford liruwn
and >101)11 fanlid^e Hurled
to instant Death.
FAIL TO HK.Mt ONCOMING* TWAIN"
Their Automobile Smashed to Pieces
and lt-? Wreckage Strewn Along
Tracks?D:\ Wriiiht One of State's
Prominent I'liysicians.
(Spe. j;i' to The Times-Dispatch.]
JAHIIATT, VA., .*uly v -Dr. O. C.
Wright. ono of the most widely known
physicians In SouthFide Virginia; Clif
ford Brown and John Partridge. aged
nine ami V ?' yours, respectively, were
i:;s:.i! ilv hilled ,it o'clock this aftcr
when an automobile In which they
woro returning to their home* was
stru. k b> an Atlantic Coast I.lne train
at a crossing near Owen's Store, f mir
miles frorn here. In Wright had pone
to make a professional > all.
and h-?<\ taken the two boys, children
of neighboring f.itnilies, with him for
the ride. Upturning, he approached the
crossing, known as a particularly dan
gerous one because of the high banks
on either side of the tracks which shut
out the view of approaching trains.
He failed to hear a northbound special
freight train, and the engine struck his
car squarely as it ran upon the tracks.
The occupants were thrown on:, and
all were dead when found a few min
utes later by persons living near-by.
The automobile was smashed to piece*
and its wreckage scattered along thf
tracks for many yards.
The bodies of Dr. Wright and the two
boys were brought to their homes in
. Jarratt this evening.
l>r. Wright was one of the leading
physicians in this part of Virginia, and
, was favorably known throughout the
State. He was the organizer and first
president of the Kouthslde Medical As
| soclation, a member of the Seaboard
Medical Association and the State Med'
cal Society. Ho was also a member of
the State Hoard of Medical Examiners,
and had served as n member of the
board of the Eastern State Hospital, at
Williamsburg, having received his ap
pointment at the bands of .Governor
Claude A. Swanson.
Aside from his activities as a phy
sician. Dr. Wright had varied Interests
In business, and was reputed wealthy,
j He was president of the ISank of .Tnr
ra 11.
Dr. Wright, who was about sixty-five
years old, leaves his wife and one
daughter. Miss Susie Wright. He also
leaves three brothers?Dr. F. .T. Wright,
of Petersburg; Joseph Wright, of Red
Kails. Montana, and Dr. Christian
Wright, of Frnlttown, Idaho?and three
sisters?Mrs. C\ A. Mayhem, of Pnn
ville; Mrs. W. O. Hundley, of Holllns,
Va., and Miss Suslo Wright, of Sandy
j Hill. Va.
The funeral of Dr. Wright will he
held from the High Hill Church at Jar
j ratt on Monday afternoon at 1 o'clock,
j Funeral arrangements for the two boys
j have not been announced.
| TREATED LIKE PRISONERS
llcrlln. tn Statement, Defends German
Policy Toward Interned llrlt
Isli Civilians.
AMSTERDAM, July 7 (via London,
July 8).?An official statement Issued in
Merlin says that the statement of Lord
Robert Cecil in the House of Commons
! with regard to the treatment of Hrlt
| ish civilian prisoners interned at Ku
1 heloben Is Inexact. The statement says
! that these prisoners are treated in the
same way as prisoners of war, and
receive suflirient food, according to
tested principles. It Is declared that
! England has already been Informed of
I tills effect, ami, therefore, her protests
! aro superfluous. ,
The statement adds that English pro
posals for the Interchange of civilian
prisoners arc unacceptable to Germany,
! but that negotiations are pending with
In view to an exchange along other
lines.
VA! KHAN RFIIFVFH
Succeeded by Lieutenant-Colonel
B. W. Salomonsky as Com
mander at Camp Stuart.
STAFF OFFICERS GO HOME
Headquarters Force Is Being Re
duced, Following Departure of
Two Regiments for Texas.
Lieu tenant-Colonel Bernard "VV. Salo- 1
monsky, of t:.e Fourth Regiment. to
day will tak'- active charge as com
nian'ier of ("amp Henry Carter Stuart,
succeeding Brig.idler-General Cecil C.
I Vaughnn. Jr. of the First Brigade,
i who .because of the marked diminu
tion In the rankn of soldiers assem
j bled at th< concentration point, has
I been relieved of* further service bv the
I Adjutant-General. With the command
! ing oUlcer, s? v. ral other officers desig
nate! f. a .-1st hhn In getting the
troops In shape for border service will
return to their home stations.
With something over two-thirds of
j Virginia's quota of the volunteer army
! speeding toward their border destina
tion at Brownsville, scarcely a full
rr-irimeni. made up of the artillery, the
cavalry. the Signal Corps and the Hos
pital and Engineering Corps. Is left In
the mobilization camp. The relief of
General Vaughan was made at his own
request, the commander seeing no
further need for his services, unless
there .should l>e a call for the full bri
gade. on the border.
STAFF OFFH'F.ltS ARK
Ui:MF.Vi:ii FROM 111 TV
Other oUlcers who have been relieved
include Major Israel Brown, of the
Medical Corps, who was designated by
Chief Surgeon Lynch to supervise sani
tary conditions at the camp; Captain K.
Baldwin Myers, of the commissary
corps of the Fourth Regiment, who let
contracts for the commissary supplies
i for the concentrated forces: Captain
I Charles B. Borland, adjutant of the
? Fourth Regiment! First Lieutenant
Blair Wilson, of the Fourth Regi
ment: First Lieutenant T. V. Wil
liamson. of the Medical t orps;
; Second Lieutenant George H. Keesee,
! ald-de-camp, and Second Lleutennnt
Franklin Kdwards. ald-de-camp. Major
Wright still retains his position as
'camp adjutant and Major Allen Potts
ns camp quartermaster.
SoldUis in camp yesterday chafed
I under the delay In getting started to
the border. Adjutant-General Sale hail
! receive 1 110 delinite instructions from
the War Department, and could not
say when the forward movement would
come. It may come any minute, or Ir
may never. General Sale is anxious
that the commands which still remain
in camp he given an opportunity of
j taking advantage of the training al
I the border concentration point.
GIIWF.S'S UATTKItV
OFFICRItS HKSICSV
! Orders were issued yesterday from
1 the office of the Adjutant-General
' for an Immediate election of officers
by members of Battery C. Portsmouth,
j to succeed Captain M. B. Mac Don a Id
I and Soil 'ltd Lieutenants Mason K. Lee
1 and Aaron I! Olsen, whose reslgna
' tions were received and accepted dur
ing the day. The battery, which Is
familiarly known as Grimes's Battery,
has now a single commissioned officer.
First Lieutenant W. J. Tennent. Gen
eral Sa!>- has expressed himself In
' favor of electing Portsmouth ine.n to
head the organization.
Owing to the fact that Its strength
is now below minimum, duo to whole
sale rejection of enlisted men by inus
i terlng officers, the Portsmouth bat
tery has been mustered out of the
First Battalion, Field Artillery, and
' has been superseded by the newly
! organized Hampton battery. Recruit
ing, however. Is going steadily for
ward. and the battery hopes to regain
Its strength within a short tlrnd. It
will probably be unattached, losing Its
connection with the First Battalion,
which, with the Hampton battery, has
the required number of organizations,
i !*ver> command nt the mobilization
camp, except the Engineering Corps,
has been mustered into the Federal
service, and is ready to begin at any
time the forward movement to the
border. Trains are ready to take on
the men at a moment's notice. The
troops themselves are anxious for the
call. Commanders would welcome the
opportunity for training at Browns
ville.
ItK.JKCTKll ME.V HAVE
1.10 FT KOll THEIR. HOMES
Xone of the men of the First and
Second Regiments who, for physical
unfitness or other* reasons, were re
jected by United States mustering of
fi< ors is now in camp. About r>00 of
them, carrying honorable discharges In
I their pockets and whatever pay was
| due them, began the Journey liomo
; ward. General Salo received a tele
gram during the day from the War
j Department, vesting him with author
! it.v also to bring about an almost Itn
! mediate discharge of any man now
' in camp whom ho thinks should be
relieved of military service. It Is prob
' able that all men with families depend
j ent upon them will be discharged.
Tho Fourth Regiment may bo at
1 Camp Stuart for Its annual summer
j encampment within the next few weeks.
! Tho encampment, however, depends en
I tlrely upon the action of Congress,
which as yet has not made the appro
priation for maneuvers by commands
which are i/ot under mobilization
^ (Continued on Tenth Page.)
? i mI
Would Call on Supreme Court to
Decide Legality of Re
moval Order.
DARK CONSPIRACY CHARGED
Deposed Examiner Says Judge
W. R. Barksdale Furthered
Son-in-Law's Campaign.
Charging Judge William R. Barks
? dak-, of Halifax, and Attorney Benja
I inlii W atklns Leigh, of Houston, with
? secretly preparing against ' him
j charges which were, for the most part.
proven later to be unfounded?a pro
j ceedlng which he characterized as
j part of a contemptible plot" to secure
; 1,iH removal as Examiner of Records
for the Sixth Judicial Circuit?James
i S. Easley yesterday announced his In
; tention to consult counsel as to the
I advisability of testing the legality
I of the Tax Hoard's action in summarily
| removing him from office.
j The action, If It Is brought, will be
I directed agtinst the act placing ex
j a miners or records under the Tax
j Board. The law contains several ap
j parently contradictory provisions, and
j Is In many quarters regarded as de
, fective. Mr. Easley will consult coun
' sel- among them Attorney John L. Lee,
j ?>f Lynchburg, and If they share In his
j doubts as to the legality of the Tax
Hoard s action, the State Supreme
Court of Appeals will be asked for a
writ of quo warranto or prohibition.
In which the Tax Board will be called
upon to show legal warrant for its
act.
In passing upon the application for
the writ, the Supreme Court will be
called upon to review the law in
question and construe the Tax Hoard's
powers under It.
KASI.KY WII.L SEEK
HEI,IEF j\ COlitTS
Mr. Easley's decision to seek a rem
edy in the courts was yesterday's in
teresting contribution to the after
math of the Sixth Circuit cxnminorship
j flglit-which ended Friday with the Tax
, Hoard's removal of Mr. Enslev as ex
i ainlner of records, and the 'appolnt
j mcnt In his plaoi of Tucker C. Wat
kins. Jr.. of South Hoston. The whole
controversy had stirred the Sixth Cir
cuit t* its depths and had called to the.
support of one or the other of the two
candidates the entire legislative rep
resentation of the circuit,
j Supplementing his statement to The
[ Times-Dispatch on Friday. Mr. Eas
j ,oy yesterday issued an amplified
j statement dealing with the examlner
j ship contest, in which lie attributes
i his removal to a plot concocted by per
sonal and political enemies, one of the
most active of whom, lie says, was
Judge Barksdale, of the Circuit Court
of Halifax, lather-ln-law of the man
who was appointed examiner to suc
ceed him.
Both Governor Stuart and Judge
Prentis. said Mr. Easley yesterday,
had substantially assured him months
ago that they would attach little or
no weight to petitions. The Gover
nor, ho said, all but assured him that
ho had nothing to fear as long as he
discharged his duties as examlner
fearlessly and without favor. With
reference to the charge that he failed
to report certain moneys in the hands
of special commissioners, Mr. Easley
quoted State Auditor Moore as saying
that these funds were omitted by all
the examiners of the State. Governor
Stuart, Judge Prentis and Auditor
j Moore compose the Tax Board. It is
I understood that they voted unanimous
I ly for Mr. Easley's removal.
I SAYS JUIIOM ItAlt KSD.V I.H
THI .III'KI) I l? ('II.litGRS
Air. Easley made the following state
j n.ent:
j "The charges preferred against mo
j wero trumped up by B. W. Leigh, a
I personal enemy of mine, with the as
! sistanco of Judge William R. Burks
| dale, of the Sixth Judicial Circuit, try
ing to further the campaign of his son
in-law, Tucker C. Watkins, Jr. Tho
j charges made were met by my reply
j and proven by the records t'? be untrue,
i with the exception of my failure to re
i port some of the funds held by special
commissioners of courts. The law
makes the .reporting of these funds tho
imperative duty of the clerks, and im
poses upon the Judges the duty of see
ing to the payment of taxes thereon.
The Auditor stated in my presence, be
fore tho board, that these funds were
omitted by all tho examiners of tho
State. He will not deny this. Thoso
charges were secretly prepared by Mr.
Leigh and Judge Barksdale and sub
mitted to the board on July 1. at tho
time when they expected the board to
act on these appointments, and thus
calculated to avoid any answer from
me. That they are merely a part of
a contemptible plot is evident to tho
casual observer. The real cause of my
removal was my activity in assessing
omitted property in Lynchburg held by
(hose who had the ear of the authori
ties who ousted me.
WAS tom) PETITION'S
woui.n xot iie t onsidku^d
"Regarding 'the monster petition" for
Watkins, which emphasis is laid
on, it will bo observed that, after four
months of strenuous effort on the part
of Mr. Watkins anil his friends, which
embraced numerous politicians, he has
only secured 2,001 names. It will
further bo observed that these 2.0U0
names were obtained from the city of
i<yn?:hburg, with a population of about
3.-..000, together with four large conn
(Con11 nueel on Eighth PogeT)
CONFER ON PLANS I
TO HALT EPIOEMI
i ? ? *
Federal, State and City Authori- !
ties Co-Operate in Fight on ,
Infantile Paralysis.
WARNING TO GENERAL PUBLIC
Eighteen More Deaths and
Ninety-Five New Cases Re
ported in New York.
' NEW YORK. July 8.?After a con
ferenco of Federal, State n?<l city
j health authorities in tills city to-day to
<11 souS8 plans to check the epidemic
of infantile paralysis, which already
i lias cost 205 lives here, Dr. W. C.
Pucker. assistant surgeon-general of
the Federal Public Health Service, re
j turned to Washington to-night to ex
] pedite the importation of monkeys for
! experimental purposes.
1 ?r. Haven Emerson, health cominls
; sloneV. said to-night that while the
; rate of Increase in patients had been
I lowered, it could not be said the epi
demic was under control. The chief
I problem now confronting the health
; department, ofilcials snM, is the danger |
to the peneral public of the "carrier," |
a child or adult, who may have the
disease and without showing symp
oms of it. can communicate It to others
It is hoped by experiments upon mon
keys to determine how the disease Is
spread.
warns rK.on.K *ro keep
A WAV Fill) >1 HVKKVnonV
"Keep away as far as possible from
everybody. You can't tell who the
carrier ina.v be." was the warning to
nlght. of Dr. Cleorge Nicholas, head of
the bureau of epidemiology. "There la
entirely too much promiscuous fon
dling and kissing of children."
At the conference to-day, attended
by Dr. C\ IT. Lavender, of the Federal
Public Health Service; Assistant Sur
, goon-General Rucker; Dr. 11. M. Biggs
State health commissioner; Dr. Wil
liam If. Park, of the city laboratory,
and Dr. L?. L. Luinsden, of tlio
Public Health Service, It was do
elded. Commissioner Emerson said
that . the government experts will
sturt next Monday to study exhaustive
ly cases in New York City and the
surrounding territory.
Six new cases were reported to-day
in Newark, N. J., and the disease has.
appeared in many other near-by places.
The health department to-day reported
eighteen more deaths, and ninety-tlve
new cases during the twenty-four
hours ending at 10 o'clock this morn
ing. There was a decrease of four
deaths compared with the previous day,
and an increase of eight cases.
STRICT lli:<;IJI.ATIO.VS
TO I'll HVBXT SPREAD
[Special to The Tiines-Dlspatcli.]
WASHINGTON, July S.?The United
States Public Health Service, co-operat
ing with the New York City and State
authorities, will impose strict regula
tions to prevent the spread of infantile
paralysis from New York. The details
will be perfected at conferences in.New
York between Dr. \Y. S. Rucker, assist
ant surgeon-general of the Public
Health Service, and Health Commis
sioner Emerson, of New York. Among
the lirst steps to be taken will be the
following:
1. The establishment of a system of
notification. Persons who come In con
tact with the disease will be required
to inform the authorities.
2. investigation of carriers. Persons
suspected of being carriers will be sub
jected to careful examination to deter
mine if they are carriers of the germs.
Monkeys will b?> Inoculated with secre
tions from their noses. This is declared
to be the only means of learning
whether a person carries the germ.
3. Either a quarantine of houses in
which the disease has occurred will be
established or persons with it will be
removed to a contagion hospital. In
fantile paralysis. Public Health Service
ofilcials declared to-day, is as Infec
tious as smallpox.
4. Measures will be taken to prevent
the spread of the disease to other
States. What these steps will be has
not been decided. They will be agreed
upon by Assistant Surgeon - General
Rucker and the New York State au
thorities. A quarantine against New
York City, It was said by Public
Health Service authorities, would not
be practicable, as it would interfere
with the business of tho entire coun
try. This phase of the problem Is
giving the authorities great concern,
as a person who has tiie disease car
ries the contagion forty-eight weeks.
DISEASE I'Sl'AI.I.Y
SPHKADS <lVKit STATE
The disease usually spreads over a
State. Iowa a few years ago was
stricken with II, and cases were re
ported in almost every county.
Laboratory work in New York will
be devoted especially to experimenta
tion in determining who are carriers.
Hundreds of monkeys, possibly thou
sands, will bo Inoculated. The monkeys
will come from the West Indies, South
America and the Philippines. Prac
tically all this part of the campaign
in New York will be devoted to the
discovery of means to prevent the in
terstate spread of the disease.
Almost all the State health officers
representing tho Public Health Ser
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
EXCURSION' TO TIIB MOUNTAINS,
Yin Norfolk mid Western Uiillwuy.
Ttiomlny, July In: 12.00 l.ynchburg, $3.00
Koanolie. Phone Madison is/ for full par
ticulars.?Adv.
With Allies in West
Orncral < nmoii, n Canadian, rrho la
reported (? he one of tlie Krnernln di
rection: the Brent allied drive.
DEMOCRATS, III CAUCUS,
AGREE ON SHIPPING BILL
Knds Ono of Most Serious Party Di
visions or Wilson Admin
1st ration.
TO BR PRESSED FOR PASSAGE
Amendments, Which Smooth Out All
Serious Objections, Do Not Alter
1 rinciph* of Mcasuro ns Already
Passed by Douse.
^ ASIIlN'fi | ON, .Tuly S.?lipniocr.itic
Senators in caucus late to-day reached
mi agreement on the government ship
ping hill to upbuild the American mer
chant marine, ending one of the most
serious party divisions that has oc
curred during the Wilson administra
tion. Differences which led to a Dem
ocratic revolt nt tho last session of
Congress, and resulted in failure of tho
ship-purchase hill, hnil threatened the
pending measure, earnestly advocated
hy President Wilson, with n like fate,
Amendments submitted to-day, how
ever. ironed out all serious differences,
and Senators who had been fiprhtlng
each other on the issue shook hands,
resolving to press the bill for passage
at this session, no matter how long it
may delay adjournment.
CHANCES |)o MIT AI.TEIl
I'lllXCIl'I.K OF MKASl!HF,
Changes agreed to hy the caucus do
not alter the principle of the bill which
already has passed the House. The
amendments include the following pro
visions:
The government shall not purchase
any ship which tlies the flag of a
European nation at ivar, nor any ship
already engaged in American trade,
unless it is about to he withdrawn
from that trade.
No ship shall be aciiulred by the gov
einmcnt which is below 75 per ecnt of
its original eflieiency.
The government shall not undertake
to operate. merchant ships unless all
efforts fail to negotiate satisfactory
leases or sales to private corporations
for that purpose, the government re
scrving I he right, however, to prescribe
conditions under which ships shall be
operated, and in what service they shall
engage.
Among Democratic Senators whose
support has been won over by to-day's
action are Clarke, leader of the oppo
sition. Hankhead, Vardanum, Hitch
cock. O'Gorntan and Hardwiok. The
closing incident of the caucus was a
demonstration of applause when Sen
ator Clarke shook hands with Sen
ator Stone, signaling tho end of tho
party struggle.
COMMITTEE TO Itrsif
COXMI DEItATlOY OE MM,
When the amendments had been ap
proved tho Commerce Committee was
authorized to rush consideration of the
bill, and also to draft a provision re
garding entry of government ships in
American coastwise trade. That issue
was discussed in the caucus, the ma
jority being of the opinion that govern
ment ships should he permitted to
enter into such trade.
Provisions of the Mouse bill relating
to tho selection and make-up of the
proposed shipping hoard were not
amended, although there had been sug
gestions for the elimination of tho
Secretary of the Navy and Secretary of
Commerce from Its personnel. Neither
was there any amendment to the pro
vision which limits operation of tho
proposed system to a five-year period
following tho conclusion of tho Euro
pean war.
JAMES Y. JOYNER CHOSEN
North Carolina Educator Heroine* Sec
retary of TruntcrM of National
Education Association.
NKW YORK, July 8.?James V.
Joyner. Superintendent of Public In
struction for North Carolina, was to
day elected secretary of the board of
trustees of the National Education As
sociation, after having been chosen as
h member of the executive committee
earlier In the day. Carroll O. Pear so.
of Milwaukee, "Wis., was made chair
man of the board.
FIERCE OFFENSIVE
c
I ?
Haig's Forces Also Report
Progress at Contal
maison.
POSITION CONSIDERED
"SATISFACTORY" NOW
Attack on Hardecourt and Mam
aleon Results in Capture
Desired Positions.
RUSSIAN DRIVE IX FULIi SWING
Their Lines Pushed Forward Along
Front of More Than
Thirty Miles.
Undeterred by rain and fog th?
I" ranco-Brltish offensive continues
fiercely north of the Somme. The Brit
ish. in conjunction with the French,
nre reported to have advanced & half
mile on Saturday against the qermanq.
General Ilaig'p forces also have made
considerable progress at Contalmalson,
wh?>rr their position now is considered
"satisfactory."
Tlio French. In an attack on Harde
court and Hamaleon, gained the de
sired positions in a little more than
half an hour. The Germans counter
attacked twice against the Mamaleon
positions, but were repulsed. The
French Inflicted heavy losses and took
2fi0 prisoners. Artillery bombardments
continue around Verdun*
A fierce preliminary bombardment by
the British was followed by an in*
fan try attack, which gained then^
lodgement in a strongly defended Ger
man position known as the Bols-de
Trones. The Germane attempted a
strong counterattack to regain this
position, but. according to the British
official statement. It broke down under
the British fire.
Russia v miive for kovel ?
AGAIN IX FULIi SWI$G
The Russian drive for Kovel Is again /
in full swing along both sides of the ?
railway from Sarny to this important
Junction point In Volhynia. General
Kalcdines reported further Important
progress in this movement yesterday.
His lines now have been pushed for- '
ward along a front of more than thirty
miles In this scotor, until they extend
from Letcbnlevka, on the north, to
Gruziatyn, on the south, the present
front lying approximately thirty-flve
inlles from Kovel.
TEUTONIC RESISTANCE
NOTABLY WEAK
The Teutonic resistance, which a
week ago had not only stopped, but
was driving bac k the Russians along
this front, apparently has been notably
weakened. Berlin and Vienna have re
potted an orderly retirement here, but
Petrograd claims the capture of more
than 2,000 prisoners, with numerous
guns and stores, and mentions the
sabering of numbers of Austrlans in a
pursuit after a cavalry charge.
The pounding of General von Botli
niers army in Gallcia also is being
continued by the Russians, who report
the capture of another village and of,
nioro than 1,000 additional prisoners.
The German otlloial statement hit"
little to say of the fighting In tie'
Volhynian and Gallcian fields of opera
tlon. It reports, however, the repres
sion of Russian attacks on Field Mar
shal von Hlndenhurg's lines south of
Dvinsk anil the mowing down of masses
of Russians In their futile efforts to
break through the German lines north
of Baranovichi, along the front from
Zirin to below Gorodische. The battle
in this latter sector is still In progress.
MAKE HAHJ'S FORCES
I'AV DEARLY FOR GAIN'S
There seems little doubt that th*
Germans have massed all their readily
available reserves against the British
In Northern France, and are making
General'llaig's forces pay dearly for
whatever successes they win.
Berlin does not concede the gains
claimed by the British In their efforts
to reduce the German salient center
ing upon Contalmaison, and declares
that enormous numbers of British dead
were left on the ground before the
German positions in this sector after
the fire from the Teutonic artillery
and machine guns had torn Into the
masses of troops advancing to the.
attack. e
Similar heavy losses wore suffered
by the French in attacks along the
Uiaches-Soyecourt front of their offen
sive movement, according to the Ger
man report.
^ Heavy fighting continues north of
\ erdun, whoro the French are declared
by Berlin to have suffered heavily in
fruitless attempts to carry German po-^
sitlons on Frolde Terre ridge.
REPEATED ATTACKS BY AM.IKS
REPUf.SED WITH HEAVY LOSSSSS
BERLIN, July 8 (via London).?
Gorman troops on both sides of the
hornme in the field of the entente of
fensive along the western front have
repulsed with heavy losses repeated at
tacks by the British and French, the :<
War Otllce announced to-day.
The German artillery, machine guns .
and infantry rtre had a devastating''
efTect upon the huge masses of "iU;
tacking forces, aa Indicated by tho f
enormous numbers ot 4Mfcd
