"A? -II'
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and cooler to-day; to-morrow fair;
moderate northerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 89; lowest, 68.
Detailed weather, mull 11 ml marine reports on page 1 1.
tin.
IT SHINES FOPs, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 313.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JULY 9, 1916. Copyright, 1010, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Msoclnllon.
58 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
- .''il l x 'O
PARALYSIS WAR
PRESSED; RATE
OF DEATH CUT
City Has 95 Now Cases, 111
Fatalities, but Officials
Are Hopeful.
AND NEW YORK PRE SS
PEliCEXTAGK IS LOW,
Dli. EMKKSOX SHOWS
Week's Dead 120; Total
Since Epidemic llegan
Ueaclies 205.
Ravages oj Disease
In Week Just Ended
Casta. Ilkn.Miin.llrx.Qn-..lllch.
3?
Hiimlitv
MuhilHy t,v
Tiini,y -j
Weilneadny ?!
Thursday 10? VI
KrlJuy J xo
falunlxy 'jo ;i
U
1.1
i:
Total SIO
Deaths. llkn.MHn.Ilrx.qiia.Utcli.
Hunduv
Mntiilsy
Tumihiy
VVriltifmluy
Thuraday
l'rlJny
fatiltilay
Total. .
II
II
17
20 ?
ill 21
zz 19
it n
.i:
KUlurta unuutulnablt.
MEXICAN LEADERS
PLAN PARLEY IN U. S.
l STATES 1XVADEI)
1JV DISEASE GE1LMS
BRACEBIT BILL HAS
SING SING ON EDGE
llitiiio Defence League, 20,
Mill) Strong, to Inspect
City With Police.
The spread of Infantile paralysis
thtouchout tlie country became more
inaiked yesterday. With New York
hardest hit, nineteen States reported
cases of the disease.
Whllu specialists In lal)y diseases
end lactftriologlsts would not say the
source of the disease was New York
city tliev wero of the opinion that
there la u hidden connection or cause
fur the outbreak In so many parts of
the 1'nlted States. The tank of dls-
Also He 11ns the Edge on Sin?
Sin- for He Hides in
Hole He llorcd.
Proposal to Settle Differences
by Direct Telegraph
Also Considered.
CONFERENCE AT PALACE
American Families Hetiirn to
Mexico City Latin Ameri
can (.((.(! Will Sought.
coveting. If possible, the method of; of k"ow al"-u-
1 ..tw,...... nwi'oninnlu tn th
Ossinino. July R. Drnceblt Illll Arm
strong, the best known burglar ever
turned out by Hrlghtwators. L. I., be
came plumb dissatisfied with Sins Sinn
Inst Friday and decided to go away
without leaving his address with Warden
Klrchwcy. Hill had seen too many of
the State boarders become victims of
their own Impetuosity to try the old
stunt of shinning over a wall or sneak
ing clear under cover of n grocer's
wagon. Ho apparently held a confer
ence with himself and decided to flee
slowly.
And that's all the warden and help
Hill Arm-
SENATE CAUCUS
0. K.'S SHIPPING BILL
Democrats Agree on Amend
ments to Upbuild Mer
chant Marine.
the transmission of the germs was
undertaken vcsterdiiy by the United
frt-te-i Public Health Service.
In New York eitv I' 5 new cases of polto
mjei.tla weio reported yesterday, an
Increase of eight over the previous
day and a greater numlx-r than any
day except olio during the epidemic.
There wore. IS deaths, as compared
with on Krld.iv and 24 on Thurs-
strongs movements, in the past two
days they have practically taken the
eld prison apart and put It together
again in the hoie of finding Hill some
where among the pieces. They haven't
glimpsed him and yet they arc sure
Hill is still among those present tucked
away In a hldyhole and waiting for a
chance to skip.
lie I Many Years In Debt.
Probably there hasn't been so much
made In twenty years over the
art the germ 4 were not breeding disease
In th.- saa.e geometrical proportion of a
aeek ago.
Not Multiply lux So Fast.
"I do not say that the epidemic Is
UmUr loutrol," asserted Dr. Hmerson.
"liut I do feel that the enes are not
mull- ' Vlng with the lapldlty that a
"m'k jku seemed piohtble In view of the
rapid incieae In cases from day to
dm. W . il jou llguie how many new
tnf- t' j. nny posil!y aslse from one
finale ease, and then study the number
i'f hen c.ims icpoitcd within the last
week. It teem that there has been a
falling rr in the geometrical rate of In
cre.ise "
I'll, heilth authorities, iccelvlng the
Mkxico Citt, July 8. Several proml
netit leaders of the do facto Oovernment
met at the National Palace to-day. It
Is understood here that preliminary con
sldcratton was given to the suggestion
In the latest note from Secretary
Lansing that the Mexican Oovernment
propose some practical plan through
which the difficulties now existing be
tween the two Oovcrnments might be
solved. While the greateot secrecy con
cernlng the meeting was maintained. It
became known that two plans were con
sldered. One nlan called for a telegraphic con
fcrencc with direct wire leadfng from
the conference rooms In Washington and
Mexico city. The other plan was tnal
the delegates of the two Oovernment
meet at some Isolated town In the United
States, preferably a summer resort, to
discuss plans for Joint action.
It Is said that none of tho conferees
expressed any objection to holding the
conference In the United States, and It
Is believed that when a decision Is finally
reached, probably within the next forty
eight hours, the plan of a direct meeting
will be adopted.
n I'lnnl llet'sllon.
At tlie Foreign Office It was said that
absolutely nothing had yet been decided
upon. It was admitted, however, that
In view of Secretary I-anslng's sugges
tion, some plan for a conference would
bo proposed very soon.
There are no indications as to the
probable personnel of the Mexican com
mission, nor have the specific points to
be discussed been decided upon definitely.
Newspapers here are enthusiastic over
the new project, and are unanimous In
the opinion that war between Mexico
and the United States has been averted.
The de facto liovernment Is beginning
a campaign to gain the good will of Latin
America. The Foreign Office to-day
made public a circular cablegram ,whlch
FRENCH OFFENSIVE
ASTOUNDS GERMANS
Washington. July S. Democratic
Senators In caucus lale to-day reached
an agreement on the Oovernment ship
ping bill to upbuild the American mer
chant marine. Thus they cmlcd one of
the most serious party divisions mat
have occurred In the Wilson Administra
tion. Differences which led to a Demo
cratic revolt at the last session of Con
gress and resulted In failure or the snip
purchase bill had threatened with a like
fate the pending measure, earnestly ad
vocated by President Wilson.
Amendments submitted to-day, how
ever! Ironed out all serious differences
and Senators shook hands nnd resolved
to prcsa the bill for passage at this ses
sion, no matter how long It may delay
adjournment.
The amendments Include the following
provisions :
The Oovernment shall not purchase
any ship which flies the flag of a Eu
ropean nation at war nor any ship al
ready engaged In American trade un
less It Is about to be withdrawn from
that trade.
No ship shall be acquired by the
Oovernment which Is below "5 per cent,
of Its original etnclency.
The Oovernment fchall not undertake
to operate merchant ships unless all
efforts fall to negotiate satisfactory
leases or sales to private corporations
for that purpose, the Oovernment re
serving the right, however, to pre
scribe conditions' under which ships
shall be operated and In what service
they shall engage.
Among Democratic Senators who were
opposed to the bill as It came from the
Home and whose support was won over
are Clarke, leader of the opposition;
Hankhead, Vardaman. Hitchcock, O'Oor
man and Hardwlck.
When the amendments had been ap
proved the Commerce Committee was au
thorised to rush consideration of the
bill and also to draft a provision regard
ing entry of Oovernment ships In tho
American coastwise trade.
Eyewitness Describes Havoc
Caused in Trenches by
Aerial Torpedoes.
WHOLE LINE TORN UP
Nothing Left Hut Series of
Craters, Writes Lieut.
Dambitsch.
12 MILE WITHDRAWAL
ADMITTED BY VIEW A
Explanation Ts Offered That
Russians Are Fighting
Regardless of Loss.
day, Toi.il deaths for the week were i fuss
i: and the total for the epidemic disappearance of a single prisoner. One
.,. .pi, ,. ., ,, ,,, .."., I reason Is that Braceblt Hill owes a lot
" , ; "-- "" "c,";of e.ira to the State, from twtnty to
6.0 and for tho epidemic sJ, fortv Another Is that It would create
IT C?i r ' V'"1 V" IO" .f, ,he!" mighty dangerous precedent t.i let
rtl'r ',? n L.C. V h," t,"7 I lm eashls way out of the debt. Driven
Ettmiti said last night that he felt .... , k. at.:
guards hav poked and pried and ' is being sent to the leading newspapers
fumbled and dark lanterned through all In Cuba and Central and South America,
the tiers of the old gray buildings. At The message, which comments on the
times they have shouted threats : 1 recent exchange of notes between Wash-
"We see you. Hill. Come on, now. Ington and the de facto Oovernment,
Heller make It easier for yourself. You'll isays:
get hell. Hill, If we have to drag you "The American people praise the con
out." dilatory attitude of the Ooverniusnt of
Anil then they tried to lure him with 1 Mexico and consider the contllct which
ple.it.nnt conversation:
"Oh, be a good fellow, Armstrong.
You'll get lit In Dutch for this trick.
He a sport and we'll make It up to you,"
II was like a khls' ttamo with every
body exceot Hraceblt. Threats and ner-
suasloiut were wasted on Hill's earn ami tween Spanish American countries
the prison air and at midnight, to-night,
111)1 still lay close and mum and tho I Americans Hrlnrn.
lenmers or Mlntr .sinir executives were u. ....... a a ma-!., tarn am r.
cwi. niti )ii r tl Pctler.il publl" health j rapidly frazzling. They are dead sure I ,urm.j , trie capital yesterday and more
k t: JI.-I1I ut oiiwty uinT .ik-nicm:- "'- v"uiwi i imu kul i"""i'r nre expected to-oay ami iu-niurruw. yn
Iti the clt.v, and having been promised the They, are positive he Is hidden within lne international situation clears Amer-
ml of the AmetU-.in Hm1 Croi If , the prison Itself, a free man among cans are preparing to reopen their stores
refilnl, continued yesterday to build tin 1.700 prisoner, nnd the more they think ,.mi 0nice.
auout tne puzzle the miuiuer tncy gei. i According to the statements of of-
, llclalti Oen. Carranza and Oen. Obregon
Trlrk Xnt Wholly New. w(n caVu ,,e capital for Queretaro
It was last Friday afternoon some to prepare for the constituent assembly.
time that Mr. Armstrong, late of might
was on the point of bteaklng out to have
been settled definitely, without smirch
ing the dignity of Mexico. We will pro
ceed actively to reorganise legations In
Central and South Atm-.lca with a view
. to bringing about closer relation be-
H0B0KEN CLAIMS HETTY GREEN
Jersey Inheritance Bureau Una
Visions of a fl,nnO,ono Fee.
Tiikntov, N. J.. July s William D.
Kelly, supervisor or the New Jersey Col
lateral Inheritance Department, to-day
began an Investigation with a view or
establishing th late Hetty C.recn's resi
dence in Hobokcn and thereby collecting,
r, 500.000 for New Jersey It her wealth
amounts to 1150.000.000
ft Is known. It is declared here, that
Mrs. Oreen lived In a flat In Hoboken for
a time, and It Is alleged she regarded the
place as her home. If this Is proved the
State will collect the largest Inheritance
tax in Its history.
MORE HUMID THAN HOT.
:t r uff for lighting the disease,
There Is a blind hope anions the ex
I fi t that with the precaution"- of Isola
tion of the patients, tho breaking up of
grouiM or children anil the policy of
'foap and water cleanliness" there will
be a falling oft In the ravages of tho
disease.
"There is no renwm for alarm or
panic," said Dr. Kmerson to the report
ers. The same sentiment wan echoed
by Dr. W. C. ltuclter. Assistant Surgeon
Ocneial or tho United States Public
llt.ilth Service.
"There arc l.r.nO.OOO children under
flfum years In the city," continued Dr.
Kmersnn, "and out or this number more
than MO havo been affected and i!00
hav ilM. That means 1-20 or 1 tier
tnt h-,iH contracted the dlwease tuirl
j-vi) r,f 1 p..r ctiit. has died Trom It.
Parer.ts should consider tlu-Mt flsures and
rt'.u ze that the danger has been over-
umaifii. parenta also should remeni
1r that deaths from Infantile paralysis
a r r..er than from many common
nuladits."
.No Letup In I'lubt.
Willie Dr. Kmerson and his aids were
n '"ur.iged to fUnl that the vlctlnw or
t if iliease were not Increasing with the
nilldity that t-cpincil probable, to them
In Hie earlier part or the week, they did
n t Issen their efforts to stamp out the
P acne. in the morning thete was a long
nmtermco of Dr. llmerson, his assist
ant rtiid lepresentatlves of the Federal
I utilie Health Service. In the conference
jne Or Itucker. Dr. C. II. I.avlnderand
)' J P. Leake, nil ,.f the Federal
Jl'-il'h Service; Dr. Hermann M, Hlggs.
Mate Health Commissioner, and Dr. Wll
"ain H. Park, liead bactrrioloKlbt or the
city
Tlie experts discussed the situation
ruii rally and then got down to the prnb.
I"'n eif preventing an Interstate spreml of
'- srourge ami nnntiy o the specific'
"! that the Federal service vlll per
''I'D. The ((iicsilon of vuttlng New
ifiri, under iiianinllun nimn up. but It
wa mill lily discarded as Impracticable.
His feasibility or preventing any person
bav ng In en n contact w ith an nflllcted
fhi. from leaving the city without a
pirmi was dlhcussed, There Is a llkell
h""d that six h a thing will l done. An
etln r point was the best method of get
"ng railroads to disinfect passenger
rar-i which have been carrying children.
"Ue am here to cooperate with Dr.
r.iuirxnn In nny way we can." explained
'" Itucker nftir the conference. "We
will bo giiMed entirely by his wishes,
f n-in is much work to bu done nnd at
I'h n-iuest wo tiro to undertake studies
noil selentldo researches Into tho carrier
prtdiii rn, Another part or our work will
1" t e prevention of Interstate spread of
tli d.sease. This latter w ill In all prob
sblll'v take the form of amendments to
Hie interstate nuarnntlne regulations, and
" It lonsist of oiders served on railroads
ng'igcd In Interstate commerce. What
I ! e orders will bn I cannot say bo-i-e
thy must be adopted by the gen-
r.il hoard of th United States Public
He ilili Service, '
"Them will bo six members of our
srvku hcra In tho city and for the pres-
Yelrrda' Temprralnre .n llluhrr
Thnn Friday's r.lahl Prnslrallnns.
The humidity nnd not the heat was.
as usual, the caue of most of the suf
fering yesterday, especially In the
morning. The maximum temperature
of !9 degrees was reached at 2 :30 P. M.,
which was the same maximum as yes
terday's at 3:15 P. M. There were
ten prewt rations yesterday, but no deaths
were reported.
The maximum humidity of 63 was
reached at S A. M. When tho heat was
greatest the humidity reached a mini
mum ot 35.
which will tie held there to elect u con-
waters, held a coherence with hlmseir gress as turtner preparauon or wi"
...,.i ,i..i.i...i t, .v.- u.oi. ,..,,iii,i hav to l'resldential elections. It Is said In or-
catch him twice If It wanted to collect I flcial circles that Oen. Onnzales prob
once. When tho night lineup tor couni
was called at 8 o'clock a boresome, tire,
some formality ordinarily It was per
fectly obvious that the convicts knew
something thai tickled them. Thero was
a sparklo In dull and sullen eyes, an up
ward twist of hard Hps. The P. K, dls
r,ereit tViA f.niMi. nf thin restrained clee
when Hill's number was called and Hill I
did not respond.
It Is not a new trick, this that Hrace
llt Is playing, for convicts havo hidden
for dny at a time In tho hope of being
able to slip rree eventually. Hut in
twenty years thero have been four casea
only. Once upon a time an ennuled con
vict made himself a neat llttl" tunnel,
under the stone flooring of his cell, lay
down In the tunnel and pulled tho floor
over him. At another time a hlder out
was found In tho rafters of the knitting
mill roof. They had kept Hllve because
fellow irlsonera slipped them fragments
of rations.
nbly will take charge here again,, leav
ing subordinates to command In Moreloa,
SLAYING NOT SURE.
BOLD THEFT TRIED ON BRIDGE.
$3,000,000 FOR CHILDREN.
Dentil of Mrs. Watsnn In Plttsbnra;
Hrvrsla Strnnicr Ileqnrst.
Pirrsnimo, July 8. Mrs Margaret H.
W. Watson died to-day at her summer
home In Leetsdale. She was tho widow
of D. T. Watson, who gained International
fame through his achievements for tho
United States Oovernment as a lawyer.
Through Mrs. Watson's death 13,000,
noo In riioney and property, including tiia
Watson residence, valued ut 1750,000, Is
uHi.ii for the maintenance of a home for
crippled children between tho ages of
three and sixteen years, ino uunie m
he established ut Sunnyhlll, tho Watson
residence,
The teaching of reading, writing, arith
metic, sewing and cooking Is suggested.
Proficiency In millinery and In being do
mestic servants Is also arranged for.
FLANS TALLEST APARTMENT.
Continued on Fourth Page,
Alex. Smith Cochran lo Build 31
Xtory One In West 51lh Slreel.
Alexander Hmtth Cochran will build
the tallest apartment houso In tho city
on a plot he owns on Fifty-ninth street.
West of Fifth avenue. Plnnned for twenty-one
Htorles, It will overtop tho highest
building of Its kind by two floors. Tha
present record holder Is u structure ut
Park avenue and Sovcnty-nlnlh street,
nineteen stories, high, owned by Mrs.
Morris K. Jesup. The new house will
bo at 24 to 28 West Fifty-ninth street,
one building removed from tho Plaza
" Mr,' Cochran plana to spend $950,000.
tils architect. Albert J. Hodker, haa
plunned a house that will rover an nrea
fronting 76 teui on Fifty-ninth street
and unending oacK ?. leeu
Itepnrts nf Denth nf Three Amer
icans Is Unconfirmed.
KL Paho, Tex., July 8. A Sheriff's
posse, which left Kl Paso to-day to in
vestigate reports that fourteen Mexicans
had been killed In a battle with thr.-e
Americans near Anapra, N. M., returned
to-night without having obtained nny
verification of the rumors.
Members of the posse asserted that
they had searched the surrounding coun
try thoroughly and had been unable lo
find any trace of tho reported fight or of
the bodies or tho Mexicans said to have
been killed.
Fellpo Lucero, Sheriff of Dona Ana
! county. New :!exlco, in which Anapra is
locate!!, Saill over ino irieimunt? mm n
had heard nothing nf the reported en
gagement, while a tendency to discredit
the story wiib manifested generally here
to-night.
More llalds In Texas.
Report of a thlnl raid was received
this afternoon. When It was learned
that tho Mexican bandits, believed to bo
Vllllstns, this morning crossed tho Inter
'national boundary lino In the Hlg Hend
country nnd attacked tho properties of
the Puerto Itlco Mining Company, Amer
ican employees iif the mine took refugo
In ono ot tlie mining snens ami mr a
time stood oft tne Dnnuits, nut were
flnnlly forced to retreat to tho foothills,
and three of tho men are reported to
havo been raptured by the raiders nnd
taken across tne line into Mexico. Alter
capturing tho properties tho Mexicans
looted tne stores ami nouses, nrove on
the stock and then set llro to all the
buildings.
According to reports that nave lieen
received by telephone nt Marfa, Tex.,
bandits are also reported to have crossed
at Terllngua and raided that hamlet,
Company K. Texan National Ouard,
ure encamped at this point, and whether
they engaged tho bandits during the raid
Is not known,
Most reliable reports regarding the
movements of the recently discovered
large band of Vllllstas In southern Chi
huahua are to the effect that the Vllllstas
and Carrnnzlstas are lined up for battle
at Las Nleves, southwest of Jlmlnez,
near the ranch of Tomas Urblna, a for
mer Vllllsta Oeneral who was killed by
Villa.
Oen. Jacinto Trevlno haa notified Oen.
Francisco Oonsales In Juarex that he
has sent (Ion. Domingo Arrletu, one of
Snppnsed Workmen Allnrk Copper
Cable on Quernnlioro Mpnn.
Ono of the boldest bits of thievery at
tempted In the city for some time was
frustrated on the Queensboro ltrldge
vesterdav afternoon. Patrolman Clan-
cey saw four men drive on the bridge
nnd stop their automobile and then be
gin to remove a big copper feed cable
for electricity belonging to tho city,
worth $1.25 a foot.
The men were dressed In overalls and
Jumpers nnd had the appearance of be
Ing workmen. It being Saturday after
noon, however, Clancey thought It
strange that they should be at work,
llefore Clancey had Interfered the cable
had been cut In two places. Three of
tho men reentered the automobile and
escaped. Tho other gavi the name of
William Peck or 222 Hast 117th street.
Manhattan. He said ho was employed
by tho Third Avenue Railway Company.
100 MILLION FOREIGN TRADE.
HiiiLiN, July 7 Via London, July 8,
7 P. M. An eye witness nccount of the
Anglo-French offensive Is given In des
patches from Lieutenant Dambitsch, one
of the ctlltorr or the Zcitung am MUtnp,
whose company was stationed In the
trenches near the Sommc.
Lieutenant Dambitsch saya the mas
sively built positions had been regarded
as virtually'lndestructlble.
"Itlght at the beginning of the artillery
preparation," he says, "the enemy showed
the Hermans a new thing In the destruc
tion of observation balloons. An nviator
swooped down on one of these nnd shot
fire balls from above, a burst of flame
marking the end of the balloon.
The second day's bombardment. June
2fi. brought another surprise In the shape
ot aerial mines of unheard of calibres,
which were thrown in Incredible num
bers. The explosion of the first air tor
iedo shattered the windows of the bomb
proof shelters nnd threw up a massive
pillar of earth for a length of 100 yards.
It was a regular Vesuvius eruption.
Ilnnib Proof Shelters Ilnrled.
"The destructive effects of th! un
interrupted throwing of the heaviest
mines were almost Immediately visible.
The entrances to two bomb proofs were
burled ami the Inmates had to be re,
moved."
A few minutes later an orderly sent
with i message to the left of a com
pany returned, reporting that the trench
had been levelled. Lieut. Dambitsch
saw as far an the eye could reach crater
after crater six feet deep, the earth be
tween torn up.
'The work of day and night for nine
months," he continues, "was deetroyea
In a few minutes. Report after report
arrived of bomb proors demolished by
aerial tornedoos. burying tho inmntes,
The trenches became rapidly levelled.
communication between the section .wasvi
difficult, the third lines were so
heavily shelled that it was impossible
to traverse them. An orderly sent to a
Captain was hours under way.
"On the left flank the company trench
was so obliterated that It was difficult
to trace It. Tho only means ot progress
was to dash from crater to crater fully
cxposid to the enemy fire.
Snriteon I'mlrr Fire.
"During this woik an intrepid bat
talion surgeon arrived with an oxygen
apparatus and Mood for hours under a
heavy artillery tire ministering to tho
half burled men.
"The bombardment continued without
cessation. Aerial torpedoes were hurled
from ranges such as were never before
known for mine throwers and the French
artillery iiunded every yard or ground
with an Intense fire of big shells."
The Lieutenant descrlls s how welcome
reenforcements were sent that night,
"iiulto as much to assltt In digging out
those burled as to contribute to the
defence." lie was leading them to po
sitions among the demoralized trenches
when he nnd his orderly wete wounded
by an exploding turpi do.
RUSSIANS MASTERS
OF ROAD TO KOVEL
Cavalry Smashes German Cen
tre and Infantry Occupies
Manevichi Station.
ALLIES STORM
TRENCHES AND
WIN HALF MILE
French Capture Village ill
Soinnie llegion, British
Occupy Wood.
Al'HTIttAN llKAtiQt'Ar.TKKS, Via Horllll to
Iondon, July 9 (Sunday). The retire
ment ()'. the northern and southern wings
of the Austro-llerman army south of
the Prlpet Marshes was due to the supe
riority of tho Russian forces, attended
l. the throwing In of fro? i forces and
the massing or attack upon nttack re-
garilless or losses.
Suprred on by the success nt Oen,
von Itothmer's troops south of the Dnies
ter, on the Tiumaeh front, the Russian"
brought up new troops to !oth ships of
the Dniester, nnd succeeded In forcing
lien, von llothmer east of Tlumach to
the south about twelve miles west or the
Strlp.i River. This distance. Is the Rus
sian gain.
The henviest fighting III this section
occurred west ot Kolomea, where the
Russians are evidently trying to drive a
breach between the armies of Oen. von
H'lthmcr nnd Oen. Pllanzer. ana to iso
late the latter. Their onslaughts were
nil repulsed.
On the northern llanK just, soutn oi
the Prlpet Marshes tho Russians have
been throwing In fresh troops for days
In an nttempt to cut off the Auetrlan
forces holding tho triangle formed by the
bend In the Styr north of Kolkl. The now
line, to which the Austrlans retired to
avoid being surroundt-J, runs straight
across the base of tho triangle some miles
In tlie rear of tho former head or tne
triangle.
Tho exertions of the Rulans nnd
their emnlovment of large forces in the
prifent offensive arc on nn unprecedented
scale and nccount tor me Kuccessea al
ready gained. These successes, however,
are considered hero a not affecting the
general situation.
SING HATE OF KITCHENER.
PUSH TOWARD LEMIIERG
Important Town of Delatyn
Almost Enveloped by
Czar's Forces.
BIG GUNS PBEPABE
FOR FJIKSIl ASSAULT
Rainstorm Turns Fighting
Zone Into Son of Mud
Between Lines.
New Chnnt Is Heard In Mnslc Hnlla
nf Chemnlls.
Amsterdam, July 8. Vonrnrrfs re
ports that In Chemnitz, Oermany, a
"song of hate" on the occasion of Lord
Kitchener's death Is being publicly dis
tributed and is being sung In music halls.
The composer Is a member of the staff
of one of the most esteemed Chemnitz
newspapers.
WILSON'S DOUBLE IN TOWN.
Jerry Finch of C.lrna Kails Trailed
by Sleuths to Waldorf.
Jcrrv Finch camo from Olens Falls
jNuUerdny to attend the meeting of wall
paper manufacturers nt tlie Waldorf.
Policemen silently followed him Into a
Madison avenue clothing store. Mr.
Finch grasped one of them by the hnnd
nnd gave him a hearty "Hello. Mike."
"Why." stammered tho policeman,
"aren't you aren't you "
"No, I am not Wood row Wilson. I'm
Jerry Finch, Ulcns Falls. Knew you
twenty years ago. Remember now?"
Mike remembered. Mr. Finch went on
to the Waldorf. Two more plain dollies
men trailed him Into Peacock nlley. Hven
Chief Houe Detective Joe Smith 'gazed.
Mr. Finch swabbed his heated face.
"It's nothing unusual to be mistaken
for tho President." he said, "but this
being trailed by detectives Just because
I look like him Is getting on my nerves.
I'm going to plu a sign on my coat read
ing 'This ain't him.' "
I.O.NPOK, July 8. The nrmy of lien.
Kaledlncs has continued to ndvance west
ot Czartorysk, In Volhynla, following the
withdrawal on Thursday of Herman
forces In that sector. Two towns were
taken from Oen. von Llnsingcti's forces
in this region.
A Router despatch from Petrograd
nays :
"The Russians are iiiartcrs of tlie
wiioto triangle comprising Rafalowka.
Manevichi and Kolkl. The capture of
enemy positions northward and south
ward of tho Sarny-Kovel Railway per
mitted the cavalry to rush the centre,
rcsultlns In the occupation ot the station
at Manevichi, hair way between the Styr
and the Stokhod.
Rafalowka, on the Styr. Is ten
miles north of Czartorysk. The other
two points. Manevichi, on the Orzy
wka. and Kolkl, on the Styr, nre re
spectlvcly nineteen miles northwest
and twelve miles southwest of Czar
torysk.) "The Infantry marched hard on the
heels of the cavalry and Is now In firm
possession of the Manevichi positions
astride the Plnsk-Kolki highroad.
liermnn Attempt Falls.
"Thus the enemy's attempt to turn tho
right flank of the Russian army, which
Is thrust Into the Lutzk salient, com
pletely failed. The continuance of tho
Russian advance In the region of the
railway and wet of Kolkl will compel
the Oermans to fall further back from
tlm Styr to the Stokhod.
"There Is pattlcular satisfaction over
the capture of Oruzlatyn, west of Kolkl,
which for days had been the arena of
sanguinary fighting. It Is stated that
Austro-Oermans amounting to five corps
(20ii.00i) men) have been entrusted with
the defence of the approaches to Kuvel
RUSSIANS ONLY JJ5
MILKS FROM KOVEL
German Centre Fast of City
Smashed and Muscovites
Forge Ahead.
IMttshurK Reports llnnner Orders
for (he Next Twelve Mouths,
PlTTsmmo, July S. Orders fur new
business totalling more than flOn.OOO,-
000 will come to the Pittsburg district
from foreign countries during the next
twelve months, according to an announce
ment made by the Industrial Develop
ment Commission nnd the Foreign Trade
Commission to-day.
Recently orders for $2S,0ni,O0o worth
of steel were received from the Japanese
Oovernment nnd the Hrltlsh Oovernment
has nlnced a contract with the Westing
house Air Brake Company for $0,000,000
worth of machinery.
Wilson RoIiik to Oetrnll.
Wasiiinotosj, July R, President Wll
son will leave hero on a special train
to-morrow night ror Detroit to address
,tho World s Salesmanship Congress Mon
nav morning, tie win reiuru on jucs
day. Mrs. Wilson will accompany the
President.
$1,250,000 LORIMER VERDICT.
t'rntrnl Trust Held Responsible
Stockholders Liable for IOO P. C.
CincAiio. July S. Liability ror 11.250,.
000 and Interest In connection with the
failure of William l.orlmer's La Salle
Stnet Trust and Savings Hank was
to-day fixed on the Central Tiu.'t Com
pany of Illinois by a decision which
Judge Frederick A. Smith handed down
In tlie Circuit Court.
Judge Smiths decision Is the newest
development In the Lorlmer bank history
since the acquittal of tho ex-Senator on
charges of conspiring to wreck the In
stitution. The responsibility of the Cen
tral Trust Company anise through Its
cashing of a check for Mr. Lorlmer on
October 21, 1912, the date on which
the latter's bank changed from a na
tional to a Stato Institution.
Of not less lmort.ineu to tlie stock-
BITTEN WHEN EXAMINING DOG.
.rimtli Inspector Suffers for Sixth
Time In Month.
Nkwark, July S. A collie dog he was
examining to-day to determine whether
It was affected with rabies lunged r.t the
throat of Inspector Charles F. Conrad
of the Hoard of Health, The Inspector
raised his loft arm to guard himself
and the dog closed his teeth on It, leav
ing five wounds, two or which were deep.
The owner prevented tho dog from
harming the inspector further.
Mr. Conrad had his wounds cauterized
at the City Hospital. This Is the sixth
time In a month he has been bitten by
dogs.
Summary of the War News.
I'nlinnippri'il by mill mill fiB tlie
Friiin'o-lliitlsli oiToit-ir.0 continues
llercoly north of the Sommc. Tho
Hrltlsh, In conjunction with tho
French, ailvunceil half a mile on Silt
iiriluy iiirulnst the (iHiiiuns. OeTi.
IIiiIk'm forces hiixe nla iniiile con
slilerable itogre lit 'titiilni!ilsou,
where their position N now conMd
ereil "satisfactory."
The French In un attack on Hiirile
cntirt palneil the ileslreil position
hi a little more Hum half an hour.
The Germatw counter attitcketl tvvlc
against the positions, hut were re
pulsed. Tlie French IntllctiM heavy
losses and took 'JtVl prisoners. Artil
lery homlianhaenls continue n round
Verdun.
A heavy preliminary lumiliurilment
hy the Iltitlsh was followed by an In
fantry attack, which ptined it footing
In a strongly defended German pobl-
tl, In plr,.iinu tviioi! 'Clin fSnrmnns
Tho Austrlans have been strengthened , ' .
bv Oerman reenfni ..tnenls between nlteumieil 11 L.feirollK COIIIIIIT IIUIICK in
- - . i i 1 1 1 , I..,,
Kovel nnd Rafalowl
The front at Gn. KaUdlnn Is now-
only about thlity-tlve miles cast of
Kovel. The village of Dolzyrn, which
Is on the mala road between Kolkl nnd
.Manevichi, was taken In a tierce bayonet
attack, and later the village of Oru-
I'.atyn was also taken. More than 2,000
prisoners were captured yesterday by
the Russians In this sector.
The retreat of Austro-Oerman fotces
which have been resisting Russian at
tacks In the region or the bend of tho I
Str is announced In tho olllclal com- I
munlcntlon of the Austrian War Ofllce
Issued vesterilay. The statement admits1
the overwhelming numbers of the Rus
sian", saying that the Teutonic forces,
which had opposed the enemy In this
region for four weeks, were compelled on
nccount of a double outtlanklng move,
ment by forces live times their number
to withdraw their most advanced lines.
regain this pooltloii, but, according: to
the llrltMi official statement, " broke
down under the Hrltlsh lire.
The Russian under (Ml. ItrusUolT
are contlnultu' to drive back the
Teutonic lines in Hie east. Further
notable progress has licen laiide In
Volhynla, where the UiNslau move
ment on the Important railway centre
of Kovel Is pilulim In force. The
Russians are now only thirty-live
tulles east of Kovel,
Further north the Russian lines
have been pushed forward lo Hoy
zyca, on the main road from Kolkl
to Jlaniewli'.e station on the Kovel
Sarny Kail way, the capture of which
hy the Russians was reported Friday.
In finikin, where (!en. von Roth-
Hummer llothmer' Army. i
A bitter struggle continues to race I
for the possession of the village of 1 inei- was recently cniapelled by ltll-
Rui'-lan" .,,;yc.,,n,,loure:.,,C,ro burner , "' I""' "' "' lU "
the trenches of the centre of Oen. von of Ihe Koruplce, a down miles west
Hothmer's army defending Lemberg. ( the Strypa. a new advance of the
South of lluczacz. on Von Hothmer's ' . . , ,
right wing, the lighting was very severe, Huslatis is reporleil.
Russian attacks woie met along the
iv'ii'iiiit, it itioutary m i iipiUVi; l'-l"l' llll"n
Dniester, hy fierce Cicrman and Aus. ' t i.r.A Lit I'Uhun AlihetiJ
GUARD NAVAL POWDER PLANT.
Daniels Asks t'onuress for it I'llnd
for Protect Ion.
Washington', July 5, Repotted plots
to blow up the naval powder factory at
Indian Head, Md., are giving Secretary of
the Navy Daniels such deep concern that
he contemplates asking Congress for
funds to provide protection, The guard
has been doubled, but the Navy Depart
holders and depositors In the Li Salle i ment desires means of effectively pro
street bank was the court's statement tectlng tho valuable plant,
that tho stockholdeis could be assessed. In explaining the danger to the factory
on HH per rem. or incir noiiiiugs to secretary Dinlels salil
reimburse tho depositors.
THIEVES GET $6,500 IN GEMS.
. i i
M h I e r Ion s Jewel llolilier Pussies
Police of White Plains.
Wiiitk Plains. July S. Tho police
here to-day ndtnltted a mysterious Jewel
robbery that occurred several days ago
when gems valued at IG.SOO wero stolen
from a room In the home of Henri C.
Prince, a New York city men bant.
The Jewelry was on a diesser In Mr,
Prince's room and consisted or six dia
mond rings, a diamond necklace, me
diamond pin, a gold watch, gold brace
let watch and other trinkets or Jewelry,
The thlot overlooked a gold mesh bug, a
diamond stud nnd a purto containing
several hundred dollars.
Tho police susiiect tho tiller may lie
the one who has been terrorizing Mount
Vernon, New Rochclle nnd Yonkcrs.
CoHffnucd en Third Page.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST Cencnl Newi, Automobile!
SECOND Sportmi, Kenntli
THIRD Newt of the Reiorti, Cardcni, Dramt, Fathioni. Retl Eittte. Schools
FOURTH -Pictorial Mijizine .... . . . .
FIFTH Special Feature Section
SIXTH editorial, Foreign. Booka, Financial, Queriti, Chen, Problemi .
Total .
Pin.
12
8
12
8
10
8
58
RiaJirt ot ntwidtaltrt who Jo ml mtlct all of then ttetlom ulll conftr a fator
on "Tin Sun" hy nottfytnt the Publication Dtpailmcnt at once bu the phone
(2200 Beekman) and mluint toctiont ulll he promptly foruwiei If potelble.
Suspicious looking character' have
been round on more than one occasion In
the vicinity of the powder factory, and
the chances of such persons securing In
formation Inimical to our Interests or of
doing harm would undoubtedly be greatly
diminished If tho desired protection were
provided.
The proposal Is to enclose the powder
factory with a fence at a cost of JSS.OOrt.
The total value or the plant is 13.500,(100.
trian counter attacks.
I nnltlcl.il advices received here Mate i
that the Important railroad town of I
Pii.ivtn, on the road to Lemberg, has I
beta surrounded on three sides by the!
Russian forces. The Russl ins, It Is
stated, have cut off the Austrlans from !
letreat from Delnyta to the Caucasus.
MISKItY IN HUNGARY
to l.le
I'erllnu of Loneliness Said
mi Whole Country .
,fcell Oif.fr Ir.mfeA In TlIK Sis
LoMKiv, July S The Hudapest enr
lespondent of tlm .Vmtiliiji Pout quotes
a recent article In the llirlapcst As Kut
tcfertlug to the Russian advance. The
article says :
:i:ai: pkrqxne . ad
I'IiiiiUIiiu Vlot fluent on llluht Wlaar
lll'Mllls In linln.
pAKis, July S. The French forces on
the new front before Pennine began last
night flanking movements on the right
wing. The troops holding Htiloy-en-Santerro
and lint roes pushed their line
further toward the Peronne-Chaulnes
road.
The advance in the llelloy region was
mnde by a surprise attack In which 3!in
prisoners vvtie ruptured. Meanwhile
further south in the Lasslguy sector
near the bend of the battle front toward
tho east the llermatw attempted a coun
ter demonstration by an attack uu n
French advanced post. French Infantry
JOHN D. IS HAPPY AT 77.
to
Plnjs liolf nnd Semis n 'Hello'
All the World.
Cl.KVKl.ANt). July S. "I urn well and
hearty and wish lo extend my felicita
tions to tho people of Cleveland," was
tint message John D. Rockefeller gave to
Ills secretary to-day on the seventy-seventh
anniversary of his birth.
Mr Rockefeller did not celebrate tho
day formally. In the morning Mr. Rocke
feller played golf with Dr. II, F. Illggar,
Jr.. Cant. Lovi Schotleld, Dr. K. It.
Rhodes and Mayor William 10. Mlushull
of Ka"t Cleveland at the Forest Hill ch
tatn links.
He was especially grat tiled nt winning
hlH "birthday dinner." served at noon. It
was a simple meal, consisting mostly of
ftesh vegetables, In the afternoon he
motored Into the country
"Everywhere In the country the dispersed the Hermans with iltle lire.
harpies of trouble and ilrt-palr are seen. , "It was most businesslike," said nn
An oppressive feeling of lonellnixs lies evewitness. "Tlm 1'icnch infantry
on the whole country We seem to he jumped nut of the trenches nnd set to
living III relentless Isolation, The real work with as mui li celerity in their
cause of our misery lies In the lielple.s. methods as if occupied with a task that
lies and Incapac.ty of those to whoso had become second natme. Neither was
bauds the country's fate is enti listed." .there much dallying on the pait of the
Hermans, who pet haps had been lin-
pressed by what had In en going on north
ot them during the last few days. The
.French had scarcely le.uhrd the first
Points .ine ot their adversaries when the Oer-
mails wero seen dunning out or me
i.i.,,.li..u In ..lusters Willi their hnnilit till
Lospos. July S The Frnnfcnrfrr and marching at the double quick toward
ZWfHtif; In an editorial review of the th( i,-,.cnch tienches
situation, nccoidlng to nn Amsterdam 'The war i finished The war Is
despatch, says: i tlnlhed.' cried many of Hum. The prl-
vve ail Know now that our position i ..,.. ..Cneraly did not conceal their
GERMANS REALIZE DANGER.
'Frankfurter .ellunn
Tnsk I'nclnif Stuff In Wil.
Is critical and we depend more than ever
on the superiority of our leadership
What Is Important now Is the proper
utilization of our forces, which calls, for
weighty consideration.
"The Immense responsibility devolving
upon our staff In tlie west Is terrible,
but our fortress Is linn."
liny Who III! lliilf llnll Dies.
Oiikknwicii, Conn., July s. Charles
. t.itr.i... .. - . - , i y lirillMI riUHJi in If'IVII IOIIK
Andrea, 12 years old, who pulled a golf ,,,.,,, tlrltiilu for servico must therefore
nail apari llliu whs tinmen oy me item
contained In the euro when he lilt Into It,
died to-day. It was Impossible to learn
the nature of the poisonous liquid, since
It Is a secret preparation, and all at
tempts to relieve tho lad were futile.
satisfaction In finding tranquillity nt tho
reur of the I'letich tmch. Only tho of
llceis and subalterns wem downcast."
Work on the peifecting of the east
works began twenty months ago on tin
Herman sbl" of the front and went on
until the last minute, acciidlug to pris
oner. At some points dm?outa forty
feet deep weie nimornl with concrete
and lltttd wilh all the comforts of home
"Wo wero safe," wild one jiiisnucr,
, "until th new- Fiemii guns got the
Do So nt , r.,KCi Thin It took only one monster
! shell to undo tlie results of twenty
monins oi puiiciii moor
ID I ft... nptufin.i. rnriirrml tt .1,. ...
tend at present to enforce the inllllaiy I , T,,eu formidable engines In.
service act calling to the colors all llrlt- , , ,mmls or le p.r,.,luh ,.. far aheaU
Ish subjects between the ages of is mid , .. . tj, ,un (Ullg
II now In other countries, It was an-'
Honored vesterdav by the lliillsh Consul- 1
Kn-rH here. ' ish GAIN HALF MILE.
BRITONS NOT CALLED BACK,
Those Iteltiriitim Must
1 1 Mil Hxpense,
The Hrltlsh War Oltlce does hot
It w" stan d, do so at their own risk and I
expense. '
Tenure
Krw Vlk
AtlV
Hilt linns nnd Trench Morlara Pre
pare for New Advance.
I.ONIH1N, July V The Hrltlsh forces
n eiirloons ,imv Hll.i'l,l!' 'iJ','vfJLrl I north of the Sornme operating In con
k fc.vfi.lin Dully sc est. jUt,C'on with the French, usumod the!.-
