?HE ARIZONA REPUHL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
20 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JULY 9, 191C
20 PAGES
VOL XXVII, NO. 52
"ST T
SSdS WAITIG FOR CARRAHZA
Auvutn ixvxt
i 1M 1
1
Germans Unable to Stop Entente Allies Most Notable Offensive
FRENCH. BRITISH AND RUSSIANS
CONTINUE ADVANCES AGAINST THE
GERMANS IN ALL IR THEATERS
AGREEMENT 1
SHIPPING DILL
DEATH LIST IS NINE
LOSS FIVE MILLION IN
nju 77 nr a ct TmnnTr a tt?
IN IN
Republican A. P. Ueased Wire
Undeterred by rain and fog, the Franco-British offensive continues
fiercely north of the Somme. The British in conjunction with the French are
reported to have advanced a half mile on Saturday, against the Germans.
General Haig's forces also have made considerable progress at Contalmaison
where their position now is considered "satisfactory.
The French in an attack on Hardecourt and Mamelon gained the desired
positions in a little more than half an hour. The Germans counter attacked
twice against the Mamelon positions but were repulsed. The French inflicted
heavy losses and took 260 prisoners. Heavy bombardment continues around
Verdun.
A fierce preliminary bombardment by the British was followed by an
infantry attack which gained them lodgment in a strongly defended German
position known as the' Bois De Trones. The Germans attempted a strong
counter attack to regain this position, but, according to the British official
statement, it broke down, under the British fire.
The Russian drive for Kovel is again in full swing along both sides of
the railway from Sarny to this important junction point in Volhynia. Gen
eral Kaledines reported further important progress in this movement yester
day. His lines now have been pushed forward along a front of more than
thirty miles in this sector until they extend from Letchnievka on the north
to Gruziatyn on the south, lying ap proximately 35 miles from Kovel.
The Teutonic resistance, which a week ago had not only stopped but
was driving back the Russians along this front, apparently has been notably
weakened. Berlin and Vienna have reported an orderly retirement here but
Petrograd claims the capture of more than 20,000 prisoners, with numerous
guns and stores and mentions the sabering of numbers of Austrians.
The pounding of General von Bothmer's army in Galicia also is being
continued by the Russians, who report the capture of another village and of
more than 1,000 additional prisoners.
,Jh- Germa" ?.ff.iciaJ st,atement has little to say of the fighting in the
Volhynia and Galicia fields of opera tions, t reports, however, the repres
sion o, Russian anacK. on ne.a Marsna, von Hindenburg's lines south of
uvinsK ana tne mowing down ot m asses of Russians in their f utile efforts
to creaK inrougr, tne German lines no rth of Baranovichi aong the front from
- "-'tie in this latter sector is still in
progress-
no
ad-
There seems little doubt that th
e Germans have massed all their read'
My available reserves against the British in northern France and are making
General Haig s forces pay dearly fo u,,
D I : j i i . 1. . v. . -
..um.cuo xn gam, calmcd by the Britith in their efforts
to reduce the German salient center
ing upon Contalmaison, and declares
that enormous numbers of British de ad were eft on the ground before the
German positions in this sector after
the fire from the Teutonic artillery
am. macnine gun. naa torn into tne masscs of troop, advancing to the
Similar heavy losses suffered by th French attacks along the Biache,.
Soyecourt front of their offensive movement, according to the German head
quarters report.
Heavy fighting continues north of Verdun where the French are de
clared by Berlin to have suffered heav ily in fruitless attempts to carry Ger
man positions on Fro id Ridge.
INDESCRIBABLE DESTRUCTION IS
WROUGHT IN FRONT TR
EIT OF ENTENTES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1
BERLIN, July 7. (Via Lonuon, ju
ly 8) An eye-witness account of the
Anglo-French offensive is given in dis
patches from Lieutenant Dambitsch,
one of the editors of the Zeitulig Am
mittag, whose company was Btationed
in the trenches near the Somme river.
The lieutenant was wounded during
the preparatory bombardments but was
there long enough to witness the almost
Indescribable destruction wrought In
the front line trenches by the artillery.
He gays that the massively built posi
tions had been regarded as virtually
indestructible and impregnable but the
events proved that the progress
in the development of offensive tactics
Bince the September offensive had not
been realized.
"Kight at the beginning of the ar
tillery preparation." says the lieuten
ant, "the enemy showed the Germans
a new thing in the destruction of ob
servation balloons. An.aviator swooped
down on one of these and shot fire
balls from above, a burst of flame
marking the end of the balloon.
"The second day's bombardment,
June 2(i, brought another surprise in
the shape of aerial mines of unheard
of calibres, which were thrown in in
credible numbers. The explosion of
the first air torpedo shattered by its
tremendous detonation, the windows of
the bomb proofs and threw up a mas
sive pillar of black earth, perhaps a
hundred yards. This showered the
whole neighborhood roofs with bricks
It was a regular Vesuvius
and earth.
eruption.
"The destructive efforts of this un
interrupted throwing of the heaviest
mines was almost immediately vis
ible. The entrants to the two bomb
proofs were burled and the inmates
had to be removed."
A few minutes later an orderly sent
with a message to the left of a com
pany returned, reporting that the
trench had been completely levelled
Lieutenant Dambitch going to observe,
saw as fur as the eye could reach
crater after crater, six feet deep, the
earth between being torn up in a wild,
high chaos of trench timbers and wire
entanglements,
The work of day and night for
nine -months," says the chronicler,
"was destroyed in a few minutes. Re
port after report arrived of bomb
proofs demolished by aerial torpe
does, burying the inmates. The
trencnes became rapidly levelled; com
munication between the sections was
extremely difficult. The third lines
were so heavily shelled that it was
impossible to traverse them. An or
derly sent to a captain was hours on
the way. On the left flank the com
pany trenches was so obliterated It
was difficult to trace it. The only
means of progress was to dash from
crater to crater, fully exposed to the
enemy fire, while crossing the inter
vening ridges. Finally, he arrived af-
JIRepubtlcan A. P. Leased Wirej
WASHINGTON, July 8. Democratic
senators In caucus late today reported
an agreement on the government ship
ping bill to upbuild the American mer
chant marine, ending one of the most
serious party divisions that has oc
curred within the life of the Wilson
administration. Differences which led
to a democratic revolt at the last ses
sion of congress and resulted in a fail
ure of the ship purchase bill had
threatened the pending measure, ear
nestly advocated by President Wilson,
with a like fate. Amendments sub
mitted today, however, ironed out all
serious differences and senators who
had been fighting each other on the
issue shook hands, resolving to press
the bill for passage at this session
matter how long it may delay
journment.
Changes proposed by the democrats
of the commerce commission agreed
ujion by the caucus do not alter the
principle of the bill which already has
passed the house. The amendments
include the following provisions:
The government shall not purchase
any ship which flics the flag of a Euro
pean nation at war nor any ship in
American trade unless it is about to be
withdrawn from that trade.
No ship shall be acquired by the gov
ernment w hich is below 1.1 per cent u:
lis original efficiency.
The government shall not undertak
to operate merchant ships unless all ef
forts fail to negotiate satisfactory leas
es or sales lo private corporations fo
that purpose, the government reservin
the right, however, to prescribe condi
tions under which ships shall be oper
aled and in what service they shall
engage.
Among democratic senators who were
opposed to the bill as it came from the
house and whose support has bee
won over by today's action are Clark
leader of the opposition; Bankheae:
Vardaman, Hitchcock, O'Gorman and
Hardwick. The closing incident of tin
caucus was a demonstration of ap
plause when Senator Clarke shook
hands with Senator Stone, signalizing
the end of the party struggle.
When the amendments had been ap
proved the commerce commission was
mthorized to rush consideration of the
bill and also to draft a provision re
garding entry of government ships in
American coastwise trade. That issue
was discussed pro and con in the cau
cus and there was an expression of
opinion by the majority of the demo
crats that government ships should be
permitted to enter into such trade. It
was left to the committee to incnr
porate a provision relating to this sub
ject in the bill.
I'rovisions of the house bill relating
to the section and make-up of the pro
posed shipping board were not amend
ed although there had been suggestions
for the elimination of the secretary of
the navy and secretary of commerce
from its personnel. Neither was there
any amendment to the provision which
limits operation of the proposed system
to a five-year period following conclu
sion of the European war.
HEALTH MEN 0
E
HUGHES
DESIRES
REUNITED
-
PARTY i
KR1DCF.HAMPTON, N. Y., July
8. Charles E. Hughes today s-nt
t lie following telegram to Gov- j
ernor Johnson at the California
state conference of progressives,
held at San Francisco:
"I understand that the progres- j
siv conference in California is
to he held today. The natural
aims to which we are devoted are J
so vitally important that I earn-
cstly hope there may be more
t strong and effective co-oiierrtlon I
w:ih will insure their achieve-
mer.t. I desire a reunited party
as the essential agency of na-.
tional progressive, a party draw- j
ing to itself the liberal sentiment
of a quickened nation.
"I warmly appreciate the many !
assurances of support that are I
I constantly coming to me from I
lrcgre;:s:ves and the willingness
! that has been so frankly shown
; to forget former differences in I
order that by common efforts we 1
I may meet our country's' impera-
the need. To our common pur- I
j poses, I repeat to your conference
' what I said in a telegram to the i
piogirssive committee at Chicago.
We a-e not divided in our ideals, j
Let us work together to attain I
them." I
D
SATS IF ORPET
TIT
WATCH WORKING
OUT OF GUARD
MOBILIZATION
1
1
1ST PROVE IT
OF
F
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WA UK EG AX. Ills., July 8. Taking
evidence in the case of Will If.
rpet. charged with the muriler ol
arion Lambert was concluded late
day. Arguments will begin Monday,
he usual motion to dismiss was
made and denied.
In a few words, denying the motion,
udge Donnely said:
" have listened with deep interest
the words and logic advanced by
unsel, but opinions differ. After
II, I think the case is one for the
lury to decide. The motion is ue-
ied. Court is adjourned until :30
clock next Monday."
Mr. Wilkerson's remarks, before the
ruling were briefly supplemented by
Attorney Kalph Potter, who, with
-e.slie P. llanna is associated with
Mr. Wilkerson In the defense. Re
ferring to the nnalysis of the evidence
made bv Mr. Wilkerson, Mr. Potter
oncluded:
'The absence of motive for the
murder on part of the defendant; the
navailal illty of potassium cyanide to
him; its availability to Marion; her
motive for suicide are uncontradicted.
acts which have been so firmly es
ahlished that if William Orpet
hould arise in his seat at this mo-
nent and assert that he killed Marion
ambert with cyanide of potassium
there is not anybody in this court
room who wouldn't demand that he
rove it."
Mr. Wilkerson dwelt mainly on the
ontradicted testimony of every
hemist who testified on the point
that Marion died of cyanide of po-
issium poison and that as four of
hese experts asserted, the only cya
nide available to the defendant, that
n the greenhouse on the McCormick
estate, of which E. O. Orpet, father
(Continued o Page Three)
Protesting Against Special
Tax on Copper Industry
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BUTTE, Mont., July 8. From every
part of Montana today a protest was
directed to the state's delegation m
congress against that part of the gen
eral revenue measure that proposes a
special tax upon the copper mining in
dustry. Under the act the business of
copper smelting and refining is class
ified with the manufacture and sale
of munitions of war.
The Butte chamber of commerce to
day telegraphed the Montana delega
tion at Washington that the proposed taxes.
tax would amount to more than 10 per
cent of the total net income of 'the
copper business, that it was discrlml
natory and wholly unjustified as a
legislative measure.
The protest declares that the whole
state of Montana will be vitally and
unjustly affected by the discrimination
imposed upon its principal industry. It
Is estimated that under the provisions
of the proposed act, one company
alone operating In this state would
pay not less than J3,000,000 in special
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, July 8. Progressives of
Colorado at an "open meeting" tonight
declined to endorse Charles E. Hughes
for president; decided to continue th(
state organization and authorized
Chairman C. P. Dodge to call at
later date a state assembly, at which
it is expected state and county ticket
will be placed in the field this fall.
The declination of Hughes' endorse
ment took the form of a resolution i
which It was recommended to the slate
central committee that noMndorsement
be made officially of any of the na
tional candidates and that the pro
gressives be left to express their in
dividual convictions upon national is
sues.
Tho central committee at a later
meeting followed the recommendation
The debate at times grew spirited
but the action taken was practically
unanimous.
At a meeting of the state executiv
committee, county organizations were
authorized to take such steps as they
separately deemed necessary with re
Sard to county issues.
The coming slate assembly is to be
held in Denver at a date to be selected
by and at the call of Clarence
Dodge, state chairman.
1 Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW ORLEANS, July 8. The posi
tive death list from Wednesday's gulf
coast hurricane and a series of storms
and floods that followed in Alabama
and Georgia, stood tonight at nine, with
at least 40 persons reported missing
aboard small schooners in the gulf.
Unconfirmed reports say that nearly a
score of persons were killed in villages
near Mobile, but prostrated wire and
rail communication prevented confir
mation. There also are reports of
deaths elsewhere.
Property damage prooably will reach
five million dollars.
The rainfall throughout Central Ala
bama since Thursday has been almost
without precedent and has been accom
panied by destructive winds. Today
the disturbance moved over southwest
Georgia, demolishing farm houses.
flooding, streams and causing heavy
damage to railroad property. At Colum
bia, Ala,, rescuers were employed all
day bringing persons from trees along
the flooded Omusse creek.
Today Birmingham was recovering
from a rainfall of more than 12 inches
since Wednesday night. Industrial
plants were closed because of flooded
boiler rooms and street car traffic was
badly crippled.
First reports from Pensacola, Fla.,
since last Wednesday morning today
brought the news that the city passed
through the hurricane without loss of
life though heavy damage was done to
water front property and to shipping.
The message came by wireless to New
Orleans. The high tide was said to
have been blown far inland, inundat
ing railroads, destroying telegraph lines
and blocking highways with uprooted
trees and debris. Small shipping un
doubtedly suffered severely though no
details have been obtained.
There still is no wire communication
with Mobile. Passengers arriving here
said the extent of the storm's damage
had been minimized. They declared
the water front was badly wrecked and
that great damage was done to build
ings.
Rains, that assumed the proportions
of cloudbursts, followed the tropical
hurricane in Alabama, causing serious
STOP EPIDEMIC
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 8. After a con
ference of federal, state and city
health officials in this city today to
discuss plans to check the epidemic
of ii.far.tile paralysis which already
has tort 205 lives here, Dr. W. C.
Rucker, assistant surgeon-general of
the federal public health service, re
turned lo Washington tonight to ex
pedite the importation of monkeys for
experimental nurposes.
Dr. Haven Emerson, health com
missioner, saiu tonight that while tho
rate of increase in paients had been
lowered, there had been no constant
decrease thus far. and that it could
not be- said that the epidemic va,
under control.
D:. Fmerson said the department
is doing everything within its re
sources to cope with the plague, but
thit the service can be improved.
At the conference today, attended
by Dr. ('. H. Lavinder, of the federal
public health service; Assistant Sur
geon-General Rucker, Dr. Herman M.
Disgs s'ate health commissioner; Dr.
William II. Park, of '.he city labor
atory. and Dr. L. L. Lumsden, of the
public health service, it was decided
Commissioner Fmersor. said, that th
government experts should start next
Monday to stuuy exhaustively cases
in New York Oitv and the surround
ing territory.
Commissioner Emerson announced
that hospital associations are being
mobilize-!.
The various phases of the epidemic
will be taken up at a meeting of all
relief associations in the Brooklyn
Civic club next Tuesday.
Six new cases were reported today
in Newark. N. J., and the disease ha
appeared in many other nearby
places. The health department re
ported 1 more deaths and 9a new
case.- during the- 24 hours ending at
10 o'clock this morning. There was
docri-ase of four deaths comparei
with the- day previous and an in
crease of eigh cases.
DISCREDIT IE THREE IEI1S
KILL FOURTEEN MEXICANS IRI FIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Texas, July 8. A sheriff's posse which left El Paso today to
investigate reports that fourteen Mexicans had been killed in a battle with
three Americans near Anapra, N. M., returned tonight without having ob
tained any verifications of the rumors. Members of the posse asserted that
they had searched the surrounding country thoroughly and had been unable
to find any trace of the reported battle or of the bodies of the Mexicans said
to have been killed.
Felipe Lucero, sheriff of Dona Ana County, N. M., in which Anapra is lo
cated, said over the telephone that he had heard nothing of the reported en
gagement, while a tendency to discredit the story was manifested generally
here tonight.
After further investigation both civil and military authorities announced
that reports of the raid and the subsequent battle were unfounded. They
asserted that a thorough search of the district had developed nothing to
support the story.
Mil
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
, WASHINGTON, July 8. Pending
new developments in the diplomatic
situation between the United States
ant! the de facto government of Mex
ico, army officials are learning mili
tary lessons by watching the working
out of the national guard mobilization
and the summonsing of regular army
reservists to the colors.
Today brought no further intima
tions from Mexico City as to the
course of procedure General Carranza
will suggest for diplomatic confer
ences to settle border questions. Of
ficials at the state department am
hopeful that definite progress toward
framing a satisfactory agreement will
he made next week. At the Mexican
embassy1, however, it is believed Gen
eral Carranza's suggestions may not
be received for several days. Then
there probably will be some loss of
time as the de facto authorities
doubtless will desire to give Eliseo
Arredondo, ambassador - designate, '
specific instructions before authoriz
ing him to open informal negotiations
with Acting Secretary Polk, and the
preparation of these will require
time.
At the war department the belief
is expressed that more than SO per
cent of 4,000 to 5,000 regular array
reservists called for reserve duty will
report promptly. Publication of the
fact that a call has been made, it is
thought, will bring most of the men
to the front without the delay nec
essary for each to receive formal noti
fication. To make certain that other
men passing into the reserve at a
later time realize the seriousness of
their obligation to return to the colors
when called, prompt military trials
will await any who fail to present
themselves. . , ,
The exact effect of the call for re-f
servists is not easy to estimate in?
the number of men it will produce.
It is much more far-reaching than,'.
the reserve list -would indicate, how-,
ever, because in addition to summon-,-'
ing back to duty the men who have
been out of active service for some
time, it probably will operate to sus
pend all discharges into the reserve
list for the time being, except for
specific causes which unfit soldiers
for duty.
Army officers beiieve that with th-i
ncrease of army authorized ly th
Hay-Chamberlain bill completed, an
average of more than 25,000 trained
n.en will pass into the reserve an
nually. Since the period of reserve
service is four years, thev estimate
that a minimum reserve strength of
nearly 75.000 men will be constantly
mainttined when the system is in.
full working order
Much attention is being given just
now to the effect or the order direct-
ng that members of the national
guard who have dependent families
he discharged. Under the terms of
the order it is optional whether de
partment commanders issue only a
release from federal service or a for
mal discharge, which would mill if v
the soldiers' enlistment contract with
the state from which he came, as
well, and strike him off the national
guard rolls altogether. No statement
has been issued by the war depart
ment as to the course to be followed.
Many officers believe that absolute
discharge should be granted and that
the various states should be urEred
not to enlist men in the guard in fu-i
lure who are not in every way avail
able for active service.
TO SETTLE PRESENT DIFFICULTIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i would be proposed shortly.
MEXICO CITY. Julv 8 Several Newspapers here are enthusiastic
prominent leaders of the de facto gov-
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Guardsmen Ask
Discharges; Say
Have Dependents
Republican A. P. Lea sea Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M., July S A num
ber of New Mexico national guards
men, on station here have applied for
discharge upon the ground that 'i -y
have persons dependent upon thein
for support, Harry T. Herring, adju
tant general, said tonight. General
Herring added that "If these dis
charges are admitted it will affect our
organization considerably and serious
ly handicap our work on the border."
No action will be taken upon the ap
plications, it was announced, until of
ficial orders upon the subject have
teen received from the war department.
Colonel W. C. Hayes, commanding
the Second Massachusetts infantry,
said he had received no refluets for
discharge from members of his cofci
' mand.
over the new project and are unani
molls in their noinion thflt War be
ermneni met at me, national pance. ; tween Mexico and the United States
has been averted.
There are no indications
today and it is understood here pre
liminary consideration was given to
the suggestion in the latest note frtoo
Secretary Lansing that the Mexican
government proposes some practical
plan through which the difficulties
now existing Detween tne two gov
ernmnts might be solved. While the
greatest secrecy concerning the meet
ing was maintained it became know
that two plans we're considered. One
plan called for a telegraphic confer-1
ence with direct wires leading from
the conference rooms in Washington
and Mexico City. The other plan was
that tho delegates of the to govern
ments meet at some isolated town in
the United States, preferably a sum
mer resort, to discuss plans for joint
action.
It is said that none of the conferee's
expressed an objection to holding the
conference in
it is believed that when a decision
as to the
probable personnel of the Mexican
commission; nor have the specific
points to be discussed been decided
upon.
(Continued on Page Two)
Resuming Normal Business
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July 8 The first
step toward resumption of normal
business relations between Arizona
and Sonora was inaugurated here to
day when several carloads of pro
visions were taken across the border
by a local copper company for relief
of Mexican civilians at Nacozari, ,75
miles south of here.
Ives G. Lelevier, Mexican consul
here, said that several carloads of food
have been sent to Cananea during the
last few days and that George Kingdon,
general superintendent, has gone there
today to inspect the Cananea proper
ties, to determine also whether Amer-
iSays Refusal to Turn to
Carranza Leads to Arrest
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., July 8 Alea
jandro Barron, a former colonel in
Hnerta's army, who was arraigned
here today before United States Com
missioner O'Connor on the charge of
the United States, and plotting an insurrection against Car
ranza. Faid today on leaving court
finally is reached, probably within the! that he would offer in defense that
next 48 hours, the plan of a direct ' his arrest was due to the machina-
meetmg will De made. At the foreign i tions of Carranza secret service
office, it was said, that absolutely agents because of his refusal to join
nothing yet had been decided upon. I the Carranza army during ihe recent
It was admitted, however, that in crisis.
Of the twenty other Mexicans ac
cused of being fellow conspirators
view of Secretary Lansing's sugges
tions some plan for a conference J
with Barron, against whom the de
partment of justice has issued war
rants, none have been arrested.
Unconfirmed reports reaching here
tonieht said that several hundred
Yaqui Indians of the Carranza garri
son at Enipalme have revolted, fol
lowing reports of the massacre by
Broncho Yaquis of several hundred
de facto troops in lower Sonora, and
had set fire to many buildings,
The reports aroused much appre
hension here, it being pointed out
that Empalme is one of the chief
centers of the Southern Pacific rail
way of Mexico and that the road now
owns much property there.
I
