'-
y f . . -" 'J, .
V ,' v'""jS 'f
V-v'W f-V' v,v '-.:M : "T " "
wtsrwff:rx' ?
f
Shelltetotatatt Wnatg
WEATHER FORECAST:
Cloudy Tonight
(Full Report on Page Two.)'
Sunday Evening
Edition
NUMBER 8956.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, JULY 9, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
' ,;.viw-,,--siff5''
IS
U-BOAT LINER ARRIVES;
NOW COMING UP BAY
German Submarine Reaches Virginia Capes Early Today
After Escaping From French and British Warships.
Bringing Valuable Chemical Cargo to Baltimore
NORFOLK, VA., July 9 Completing one of the most remarkable trips ever attempted by a craft of its type and making good a boast
of the Germans that it could be done, the German submarine Deutschlahd carrying 1,000 tons of cargo, a quantity of mail and a message from
Emperor William of Germany to President Wilson, arrived in the Virginia Capes this morning.
Chased by French and British warships for thirty hours, the big submarine, largest type of undersea boat ever constructed, managed to
elude her pursurers at 10 o'clock last night and passed in the capes at 1:45 o'clock this morning.
She is now bound up Cheasapeake Bay en route to Baltimore, convoyed by the tug Thomas F. Timmins.
The submarine was four days overdue because of bad weather conditions and because she was forced to go 80O miles out of her course
to avoid enemies' warships. Most of the voyage was made on the surface of the water, according to Capt. Hans F. Hinch, who was on board
the tug Thomas F. Timmins, which has been waiting over a week for the giant underwater craft to arrive.
The submarine traveled 4,180 miles to reach America. Only 1,800 miles of this distance was under water. She came out of Kiel, it
is declared, and was under water while passing, through that part of the North Sea andjpther places where-the ships of England and France"were
endeavoring to blockade -German ports. " ' ' ' " rrt? 't
The Deutschland was detected by a foreign warship when six hundred miles from the Virginia Capes. She was chased for nearly two
days and was obliged to go back on her course for about two hundred miles. This interference delayed her for four days, otherwise she would
have passed in the Capes early last week.
The tiig Timmins had been waiting for her for eleven days, and when the under-water craft arrived this morning she was met by this
tug and convoyed into Hampton Roads. She remained here for three hours, receiving orders from Captain Hinsch, under whose directions she is
now being pijoted up the bay. Captain Hinsch also made a report and received one from Captain Kairig, of the submarine.
Two foreign warships had hung around the Virginia capes for over a week waiting for the arrival of the German submarine. They
made it so uncomfortable for the tug Timmins that the craft was forced to stay well within the three mile limit. Captain Zach Culison, in the
hope of throwing suspicion from his vessel, gave out a statement that his tug was waiting for the Italian bark Costella, but the foreign warships
still hung around and never went any further than thirty miles off the capes.
It was while the Deutschland was endeavoring to pick up the Timmins, which was acting as a sort of buoy for the sub marine, that the
underwater boat was sighted by the foreign warships on Friday. The Deutschland was obliged to submerge and change her course. When she
again came to the surface she was nearly 150 miles south of the capes and it was dark. She then proceeded towards the Capes and succeeded in
passing in at 1:45 o'clock this morning.
She was piloted through the capes by Capt. Fred D. Cook of the Virginia Pilots' Association. Capt. Hinsch, whose presence on the
Timmins was not known until Friday, declared the trip of the Deutschland was the most remarkable thing that has ever happened in marine
circles in the history of the world.
BRITISH BLOCKADE NO LONGER FEARED.
"We have proved," he told Captain Cook, "that the English block
ade amounts to nothing. There will be more submarines from Ger
many. They will be making regular trips, just like the big liners
from England, in a few weeks. We will have them coming in at New
York and other American ports.
"This boat is in excellent condition. She had only two mishaps
which delayed her but slightly. She had trouble with her motors, and
her underwater lights, but she carried extra supplies and the trouble
was quickly repaired."
When the submarine arrived she was escorted to a point between
Cape Henry and Old Point, where she blew for a Maryland pilot to take
her up the bay. She used an air whistle to sound the blast, and she ap
peared to be in excellent condition. Her sides did not look as rusty as
one would expect after her long voyage.
Because of her depth, the underwater craft did not attempt to come
through the Virginia Capes while submerged. She was on the surface
for over a hundred miles before she reached the capes. Had her cap
tain been familiar with the coast he could have come in through the
capes under water when he was sighted by foreign warships.
On the bridge when the submarine came in the capes were four
(Continued on Page Nine.)
SCOURGE
CARRIERS
VVIL
L BE
WATCHED
Health Service Plans to Study
All Persons Near Paralysis.
To Clean All Railway Cars.
nr William C. Rucker. nsslstant sur-
n mnerfil. United Stntes Public
Health Service, returned from New
York ellv today and laid be tore Surgeon
General Rupert Blue and other official
hla report on the Infantile paralysis
epidemic In the great city.
Dr. Rucker went to New Tork with
elx other health service experts to co
operate with the New Tork health au
thorities In fighting the disease.
With Commissioner nmerson and
others, he mapped out the course tho
Fubllo Health Servlco will tako In Its
effort to help check the epidemic In
New York and prevent Its spread to
other States.
Effo of the most comprehensive steps
recommended by Dr. Rucker, whl"h will
be laid before the general board of the
rublio Health Service tomorrow, are
the plana for study of each Individual
person suspected of being a carrier, and
(Continued on Eighth Page.)
BALTIMORE AGENT
CALLS IT TRADE SHIP
Germans ' in Monumental City
Exult Over Undersea Boat's
FeatCarries Dyes.
BALTIMORE, July 9.-Henry O. Hll
ken, of A. Schumacher & Co., Baltimore
agents of the North-German Lloyd line,
to whom the German merchant subma
rine Is consigned, had a ring of exulta
tion In his voice this morning when In
answer to a telephone call he said:
"Yes, I know the submarine has ar
rived safely. She Is consigned to our
firm Schumacher & Co. and will bo
entered at the Baltimore customs house
tomorrow morning.
"The vessel carries a cargo of dye-
stuffs and medicines. She Is unarmed
u merchant vessel, pure ana simple.
Mr. Hllken declined to comment upon
h Norfolk rrnort that the ship carried
a message from tho Kaiser to President
"Pleased?" he replied. "Well, how
would anyone else feel under the cir
cumstances?" Stored on the pier of the Eastern For
warding Company, at Locust Point, are
nickel and rubber valued at J600.000.
They will constitute the cargo of the
(Continued on Fourth' Page.)
SUBMARIN
BRINGS CZAR'S
HUGE FORCE
E
DIPLOMATIC PUZZLE ROLLS WESTWARD
State Department Will Make Im
mediate Inquiry to Deter
mine Status of Boat.
One of the most serious diplomatic
problems of the war was presented to
the State Department today by arrival
of the Qerirnn aubmarlno Deutschland
In American waters.
What the Stato Department must de
cide within tho next twenty-four hours
Is whether tho vessels Is to be recognised
aii a warship and treated as such or aa
a merchant vessel with full privileges In
a noutral port.
No such question ever has been pre
Denied to the nutlon before, as this Is
the first time n submarine, potentially a
warship, has tntcrcd tho territorial wa
ters or tno uniteu biaies
State Department officials, while re'
rival qf the vessel at Baltimore Is of-
fusing to glva final decision until the ar-
One Army Presses on Unchecked
Toward Kovel, Another Over
runs Galicia.
ftclally reported, said that everything
depends upon tne cnaracter 01 tne
armament curried, the personnel of the
officers and crew and other facts that
will be made the subject of an immedi
ate official Investigation.
It the Deutschland should carry tor
(Continued on Page Nine.)
LONDON, July 9. Smashing agninet
the demoralized Austrian armies, tho
troops of tho Csnr In overwhelming
numbers are forging onward all along
the southern part of their great battle
line.
Fresh gains both In Volhynla and
southeastern Galicia aro reported fol
lowing the sweeping blow that drove
the Austrlans back, breaking a way
through along a wide front. Unchecked,
the drive on Kovel goes on, while
further south another army presses
steadily westward.
Rome advices state that all tho Aus
trian troops have been withdrawn from
tho Roumanian frontier In a desperate
effort to stem the tldo of Russian suc
cesses. An army of 60,000 has nrrlved
at the Rodna pans to counter-attnrk
tho force moving southward In uuk.i
wlna. Semi-official estimates from Petrograd
place the German-Austrian casualties
)
