OIBMmi
HifWPilillWpwuiiiiiiiinw'i u" imj!mSmSSSvSm
IWJIWHWtKil pvmWV'" rrfMj.WrTrnw,f;
"V pjw kwiu
'SJfV
iNAL i tmtinn
FlnAL
vol-, n. NO. 173
PHILADELPHIA, iMOXDAV, APHIL J), 101(5.
("orrrmnT, 1010, pi Tin rcLio Lidokb Commni.
FBIOB ONE OJ35NT
TAYLOR TRANSIT PLA
TODAY'S BASEBALL SCORES
ATHLETICS YANSO 02033000-8 12 1
MARYVILL-E COL.O Q20000U0 2 R2
Kicl.rttdson and Murphy: Lame and C.trvtr.
ATIIT.STICS-CHAIILESTON Postponed r.itn.
COLUNGSWOOD OOOOOOOOO O OP.
EPISCOPAL ..OQOO1OO0.X 1 4
Jt(Cnll ii ml Hamilton; MUicr nnd Campbell.
CAMDEN It. JKS. 7 2 10 10 0 11 12 0
CAMDEN H. Eresh.O OOOOIO -1 20
PENNA ..2 03004 -9114
PENN B .200000 2 63
AMHERST 1 0 3 0 2
LAFAYETTE O 2 0 0 0
-' . f. '.n .i ,ti"l r ; I" in .in t ix.i'l UfiiluLilLr.
JL. V JSLA. J'
IN FINANCE COMMI
r
iv
i
K,
" ! 11 i Ti'" r-TTTrri inniri uiii . . in i. .f . . i 1 1 1. 1 1 ii iiii.l i i ....i a i i . i ' ' " i tiii i . i i i i r - i - - - -- - - - i
" " " ' ' '" "' "" '"in mih iWJIMWJIgMniMaWBWMMUIJWWMWBi " ... !.- .. -.. m wuMMWiiwiwiiiwiimi
Bl- SELECT COUNCILMAN SEGER INTRODUCES AMENDMENT TO CARRY OUT TAYLOR TRANSIT RLAN
Scene at the mcctinp: of Councils' Finnnco Committee this afternoon when Charles Soger, chairman of the subcommittee, proposed hi nmomlmcnt niwnis "i).ono,0(lO to cairy out Taylor
r" plan in full Left to right in foreground are Councilmen Soger (standing), Crawford, Conn, Dr. W. Ii. Glcnson, and foinioi Dnei-tor Cooke.
VILLA'S
LOST, PE
ADVISES CEDE
Outlaw Leader Escapes
Net of Combined
Pursuers , ,
ISECOND CLASH RUMORED
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., April 3. A
dispatch this afternoon from General
Pershing confirms the report that
Villa had succeeded in escaping. Gen
eral Pershing's dispatch to General
Funston also stated that the where
abouts or the bandit was unknown.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. April 3.
Unofficial dispatches received todny
stated that Brigadier General Per
shing's caalr had again been in
contact with the fleeing Villista
bandits in Mexico. The reports were
not confirmed. The advices did not
give the location of the fight.
Fresh American tioops havo been
rushed to the south in Mexico to aid
in the hunt for Paucho Villa. In
fantry icinfoicements have loft the
base at Colonia Dubinin
General Funston believes that the
bandit leader lins slipped the noose
and is fleeing among the hills of
Guerrero. To facilitate the search,
Ciintlniiril mi 1'une I'lir, Colli inn (Inn
A
THE WEATHER
The KvKNiNfJ l.KPcinii printH, today, n8
part of Itu weather news, the forecast for
the whole of the anient week based on
jibw discoveries) In solar plijslcs, mudo by
IVtllla Li. Jloorc. professor of meteorology
nt the George Wusliingtuii University, and
former chief of the United .States) Weather
Bureau, who, work'nis In conjunction with
f, V. CarotheiH, d rector of tlin-Cui others
Observatory at Houston, Te , Unuea
regulaily a bulletin BlUng the recutita of
their observations with regaid to weather
conditions, 1'iofessor Moure and Ills as
sociate )iao accomplished some notable
results, and hae been able to forecast
the weather for two weeks in advance
with reinaikablo accuracy in most In
1 stances, and the Evknimi r.fcUOEji, as a
matter of ecjeiitlflo Interest, and without
assuming responsibility for the accuracy
of tiese forecasts, prints them for public
Information.
WEATHER FORECAST
Pased oil a new dliioicru in Holar Physics by
wii.lis i.. Moonn ind
' iv. v, vAitumtum
Monday The week, will open fair, with
fiwderatelu cool tcmpeiatures.
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thuisday
"Warmer tememluren Tueaday, with kiIii
"Wednesday and Thursday in, advance of a
cool, wave, which u due Thursday with
cltarina weather,
Friday and Satutday Thcie will be
j central jrosts daily to the cud of the week,
extending to the coasts for one or two
days.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Cloudy and unsettled -with occasional
rain tonight and Tuesday; continued
fool; fresh easterly winds.
I.OST AND FOUND
J)OOJ Ilvri rl t"r UpuIoii bull 13lli ana
AIntb ui rj I r ir i t i uhlie brruit.
WDl m. :istou ' . r Jure toIUr.
114m l"at t I D1U5 P tlla Natiuuni
-a
. II rket with I
llf I - rat ru
"Hut Wc Should Worry,"
Song of the Villa Hunters
WITH THE AMERICAN
ARMY IN MEXICO, April !!.
The "dough boys" have created
their own "war" song. It 13 n
parody on"Tippcrary," based on
the long hikes between temporary
camps, and goes like this:
It i a lona hike to Irmpornru,
It it a tuna ii nu to uo.
It i a loua hlkt to Tnivaiurv.
On the tvau to itttilt Vancho,
tiooii hit fjrf fniiiiitniff,
tarticclt Gibson's rciucJi.
( o oittf, tonp icfly to Temporary,
tint (jmufpil w- aUnutfl worry!
HIGH TAX RATE
BUGABOO GETS
DEATHBLOWS
"Obstacle" to Financing of
Taylor Plan Found
Without Basis.
MORE REVENUES CERTAIN
City financiers of all the varying hhades
of opinion 011 tiansit looked to another
neck of discussion beginning today tt
brim; forward nothing that woiikl ills
lino tlie Inferences to bo made fiom
Chairman fJaffney's stutcinent that ' the
ta late has nothing to do with the loan
bill" anil that an important Incicase In
the tax late is Improbable.
Tboso who aro for tho Talor plan ex
pressed themselves today as confident that
"the lucieafed ax rate bugaboo" would
not only bo of no avail to Director Twin
lug and the .Mayor In their fight against
the comprehensive tiansit conitiuction
piogiam, but that it would piovc moie of
a boomerang to their arguments with
every new revelation of ceitalu or virtu
ally nssuicd iuci eases In city revenue that
is made.
In this connection they quoted as the
most significant passage In ex-Director
Taylor's statement the following:
"l want to remind every one that no
part of tho Intel est or sinking fund pay
ments accruing on city bonds Issued for
transit development will be payable out
of current revenues by the city until one
j ear after the facilities are actually In
operation and earning rovenue. There
fore, tho transit loan could have no effect
whatever on the tax rate for four or five
jeais in an) event, no matter what any
one says."
Study of tho Twining leport only made
the more Impressive the criticism of Jlr.
Ta)lor that "Mr. Twining has overlooked
cutliuly In his report the fact that by es
tablishing theso (transit) facilities aa pro
vided the city should consider other off-'
sets which It vvII get against the fixed
charge" of getting these facilities It has
become manifest that Twlnlmj's Idea of
the Taylor plan only being possible on a
basis of a higher tax rate almost entirely
ignores the bources of income that the
new lines themselves will provide.
It was pointed out that the establish
ment of the Market streetubvvay and ele
vated produced higher property values in
Continued an Tage l'iftern. Column Tour
RAIN HALTS MACKS
AT CHARLESTON, S.C.
Today's Game Postponed An
other Is Scheduled for To
morrow Afternoon
By CHANDLER D. IUCHTER
CHARLESTON. 3. C, April 3. Rain
prevented the first game of the series be
tween the Athletics and Charleston, of the
South Atlantic League, but Manager
Mack refused to allow the weather to In
terfere entirely with his training plans
and oidered the pitchers and catchers to
the ball park fur a work-out despite the
driving rani
The loss of a da)'s practice Is a great
handuau to the Miukmen at this time as
team was JUiv sinking us striae wneu
acWfeouviilo Mack had been bop-
brcau n weather eu route
iJtwa
SIX ZEPPELINS
RAID SCOTLAND
AND SLAY TEN
69 Killed, 177 Injured in
Three Attacks on Brit
ish Coasts
CHJLL7REN lpy& DEAD
LONDON, Api 11 -
Tort persons were killed and It Injuied
In last nlffht'H Zenpclln raid on the Scot
tish coast, the AVnr Ofllec announced
this aftcinnon. Though a Zeppelin tlnovv
down 101 botnlit on the eastern counties
of iJugland there were no casualties.
Six airships took part In Hie raid Klf
I) eight bimiln were dropped In Scotland
Soveial lintels mid dwellings wcte dam
aged, but no military damtigo was done.
Three of the ten persons killed were
ehlldreii Of the 11 injured, two were
women anil foui children Tho total cas
ualties in tho Friday, Saturday and Sun
day night lalds on IJnglaud and Scotland,
accoiding to official reports, aro 69 killed
and ITT injured
The Zeppelins nppioached tho coast In
two Miua'Jroins. Tlnee airships dliectrd
their course over Scotland. One raided
the northeast pait of lmgland, dropping
HT bombs Two others turned southward
and Hew over eastern lountles.
In point of territory visited, last night's
laid was the most extensive ever made
on Kugland
In addition, nn official report from Paris
slates that r. Zeppelin, said to bo one of
those which executed the Satuiday night
laid mi Kuglaud, has bombarded Dun
kirk. The bombs hill lid by the nerlal
raider upon the Ficnch channel port killed
two civilians, but fiom a milltaiy stand
point tne attack was a rallure, only In
significant damage having been caused.
Amsterdam dispatches, the Paris re
port said, stated that Count Zeppelin was
Continued on I'nse l'our. Column Two
HEX OTIS LEADS FIELD
IX riltST II ACE AT HOWIE
Chemutif- Second and Rhymer Third
in Two-Year-OId Event
BOWIU Mil . April X Ren Otis led the
J-year-oIds In the four furlongs this aft
ernoon. The machines paid JT 30, ?3 80
and $3. Chemung followed in second and
Rhymer thlid
Summation.
Ft rat ram. V'-ear-old. k.'lllne. I furlcnsn
Hen Otis, II.'. Hdnmer. IT 30, 1.1 SO. 3. uon.
v liviliuil U flllUtllllKfr. f I IIII .l .11,
xtronil, rUitmer, lit! Ambrnse. JL 50 (hint
Time. ID Hfcomls llul Cora, Ho ',u uml
Chem llfllo ulso ran
Heconci race niHlilen 3 ear olds .Va rur
longi Qarnct lot). J MrTauKan. Ill tio J Ti
'.'?',.'3- won. Trend 114 IvVoeli. jt uft ana
44 JO, urranii. Plnuetto. HH, KorehanJ V& ,10
iiuru iiuif. t uv i-u iiui inr al ml( lei
land. Life, Rflauarn. Cat o' .Sine Tails, Tie
1hI ulid Ava Truvntit alan ran
Third rare selilnEr. 3-ear-old and un. il
furlones Vldel 1U8, Cruise. S1A.GO. ill Ml
til 1)0 won. Gentlewoman, I no. Jtc-Ure, JIR'jii
tit) no. second: Klnalee. Iti.i llaiea. 17 SO
third Tlmy. 1.13 ,1-5 Little Kncland. Hold
Cap Mr Mack, Hob ft. ClalnsborouGh. Chea
tertoii, Ijaily Hplrltuelle, Ida Claire. Scottish
KnUht alia r4n.
Fourth ruie, Quen Anno purp. 3-ear oW
and up, T furlongn, out of the rhul 1-Vn
mouse. 10.1. Ambrose, 0 SO i! TO. J.l uon
KIllS Worth. 10T. Iluxtoru. J,', Oil. J3. eiiid;
Kalr Helen. JOJ, J reTaKart Ii 30 third
Time. 1.-J8 1-3. Jude Wrleht.' Republican
Illuminator also ran
Klflh race, selling;, 4-jear-olds and up, T
furlonns out of lha chute Louise 1 ravers
I0J. Mountain JM SO. id SO. II won Kner
cellc. JOJ Korejiand. IS bo M so aeVond.
Ijutcl. 115, Ambrose, J7 40, third Time
1.30 1-5. Luther, tiordello. Counterport . llu
da's Urother. Mgadoo and Castara also ran.
Hot Springs Results
First race. S- tar-olds, selllne, 4 furlonss
Kelnt. 109, Obert, 11 to S. even. 1 to ".won
Wall Street. 101). Warrington T to 0 to J
1 to '. second; Jeannette. 109, La pa i lie u to
1. 3 to 1, 3 to 2. third Time. .40 4-5 Colra
War Hrlde. Kden 1'ark. Rushforth. Fair Mary
and Doctor Swords also ran.
Second race, iwlllns. maidens. 3-iear-olda
and up. 5.urons Moz Irvine, 118, Keliey
even. 2 to 6, 1 to 5. won; Bill Wiley. iOLMurl
Iihy. 5 to 1. L' to even, second. Miss Phllbln
iol Dodd. 12 19,1. ,5 to 1. 2 to 1. third Time
1.-03 3-3. Lena, Jackson. Lame Deer, Itamona
and Increase also ran. '
Third race, selling". 3-) ear-olds and us 6
furlones York. Lad. llT.Carroll. 6 to 5. 2 to
a. L to B won., Short Hallo t 03. Hopkins, 7 to
1. 5 to 2. even, second. Undaunted. 115. Mur
tiny, i to 2 4 to .1 1 to 3. third Time
I lu 2-5 Taper Tip. Wild Bear. Eva Fad wW
Smoky Dau and Originator also ran.
18 Persons Hurt by Explosions
BUFFALO. April 3 Eighteen men
wcro injured. aX least tlireo of them per
hapa fatally, today, when a Urge acety
lene Ban tank exploded u the foundry
tdipD of tb OUa Elevator Company
Vares Beat $60,000,000 Amendment
by Seger, McNichol Man, to Pro
vide for Original Program;
$57,1000,000 Vote. Passed
SENSATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
INBIG TRANSIT MEETING
Director of Transit TwinirtR "Jmits he and Mayor Smith held con-
fetences with .Thbrnns I?. Mitten, prcs,idqnf of the Philadelphia. Rapid
eTranfritCrJirrnany, rclatinK"to Transit yittmtioiu j ,. ' .-.y,. .,
. aMayor Smith's private opico in Hit! City Hall was the scene ol-one of
tti csc mcctincSe
Another similar mcetinp was in Mr. Mitten's apartments in tho Bello-vuc-Stratford.
Prcbent at one of these conferences was Mr. Drum, chief
engineer of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company.
The questions and answers: . , ,
Select Councilman Trainer I have information that the transit ques
tions were taken up with folks hoyontl tho ofilcial life of tho city. Is
t Ii i s t r u c ? '
Diicctor Twining Yes, one. I met with the Mayor, Mr. Mitten, presi
dent of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company, and Mr. Drum. (Mr.
Drum is an engineer of the Philadelphia Ilapid Transit Company.)
Select Councilman Trainer Mr. Director, where- was that meeting
held?
Director Tvvinine; I don't remember; it may havo been in the May
or's oflieo.
Select Councilman Trainer As a matter of fact, wasn't that meeting
held in Mr. Mitten's room in the Ilollevue-Stratford?
Director Twining Yes, I believe it was, but one of tho meetings was
held in the Mayor's oflice.
Select Councilman Trainer Oh, then thoro were two meetings, was
it at those meetings that the question of changing tho stations under tho
City Hall was discussed?
Director Twining I believe we talked over whether or not the Mar
ket street subway should run tinder City IIall.
Admission made by Mayor Smith that bond for MeNichol's Keystone
State Construction Company, which was awarded contract for City
Hall work, was handled bv tho Thomas B. Smith Company, which would
have been responsible if the contractor hatl failctl to do Ills work according
to specifications.
Piesident James E. I.onnon's amendment for nn appropriation of
57,100,000 for lines as outlined in tho Taylor Comprehensive Plan3
adopted.
Seger amendment defeated by vote of 13 to 10.
Director Twining denies baying it would bo dangoroua to build a sta
tion under tho City Hall.
Tratibit Director William S. Twining confessed to the Finance Committee
of Councils at its special transit meeting this afternoon that he nnd Mayor
Smith had two conferences with Thomas E. Mitten, president of the Phila
delphia Rapid Traubit Company, and others before the enuibculatcd, bobtail
transit plan was made public.
At first Director Twining could uol remember where the meetings were
held, bpt when it became evident that Select Councilman Harry J. Trainer,
who was conducting the cross-examination, had full Information, he admitted
that one was in the rooms of .Mr. Mitten in the Hellcvuc-Slratford Hotel and
another in the office of Major Smith in City Hall.
When pressed for explicit information as to why ho luul mom mended
the change from a four-lrack subway and a station under City Hall, the Trail
sit Director's only explanation was that
under City Hall.
"I guess I took orders," he added.
Immediately after the confession
turned his questions to the Major, who admitted that the bond for McN'icltul's
Kej stone State Construction Company, to which company the contract was
awarded for the work under City Hall, had been provided through the Thomas
D. Smith Company.
The Mayor agreed that his company would he responsible. jf ((e t.0,
tractor should "fall down" on the job.
Just bef re these startling climaxes in the meeting James E. ,eniion,
president of Select Councils and Varc downtown leader, introduced ait amend
ment, fixing the item for transit in the loan bill at $57,100,000, instead of
$35,000,000. Although his action was a complete, surprise and was taken to
forestall Select Councilman Charles Seger's amendment, Mr. Seger immedi
ately offered his own amendment, fixing the amount at $60,000,000, however,
instead of at $50,000,000 as planned original!).'
SEGEIt RESOLUTION FAILS.
The Seger resolution was oted upon flrt and was defeated, 13 to 10.
The Lcnuon resolution was then put befoie the committee and adopted'
unanimously, Mr, Seger toting for it.
The Lennon amendment calls for the construction of ever) line proposed
by Director Taylor, including the four-track subway from McFerran street
to Spruce street and the subway delivery loop along the route named in the
original Taj lor plan. No mention was made of the City Hall island station
under City Hall.
The unanimous adoption of this amendment was hailed as a complete
victory for the Taylor program of reaj rapid train.it and the repudiation of
the Twining emasculated plan. 'Hie amount fixed in the loan bill will permit
the construction of every line at the figures estimated by Former Transit
Director Taylor and will carry a substantial excess for interest and sinking
fund charges on the loan to prevent an increase in the tax rate and for a
(JUtf f1hi.t. . ..!...
he would not thine putting the lube
from Director Twining, .Mr. Trainer
Uulluutd oa rate Seven, Csluaiu Oat
ll , I . I
ADDITIONAL RACING RESULTS
Fourth race, Hot Spilngs, selling, 3-year-olds nnd up, & furlongs
Billy Joe, 112, Stirling,- 11 to C, 7 to 0, out, won; Kootenny, 114,
Cnrioll, 7 to Z. even, out, second; Stoutheart, 115, Warrington, 2 to 1,
3 to fi. out, third. Time, 1.14 1-5. Pontefrnct nlso ran.
fifth rnce, Hot Springs, 3-yenr-olds and up, selling, mile nnd 70
ynuls Mabel Dulwebber, 109, Muiphy, 5 to 2, 3 to 5, 1 to 3, won;
Tiiily. 100. Kelf.ey, 7 to 1, 5 to 2, G to 5. second. Scallywag, 110,
Snrl urr. even. 2 to 0, 1 to 3, thlid. Time, 1.46 t-0. Harwood, Vlr
; c Dot. Transport. Pierre Uumns and Muriel's Pet nlso ran.
fn :tli ir.tt-. Eiwic, srlllng, 3-yenr-olds and up, mile and 20 yards
" .;v. Ill 3. Biov.-n. .74.IO, S2.G0. 2 50. won; Miss Wateis, 111,.
::-! vtr. $2.00 J.ViQ. second; Tsnoi. Ill, Mjunt.il", 3'J.30, third.
''.i.u. l.'G 2-5. Foul Hal, Wntci Lad. Ben Uncac also ir.n.
Jcveuth irtce, J3ovic, soiling, 4-ycai-olds, handlcapnille and 70
yi Kit Charles Francis, 110, Butwell, $17.30, 36.00, $3.50, won; Yo
f'i!e3. 110, Ambrose, 34.30, $2 50, second; Mcnlo Park, 105, J. Mc
.dGErt, ?2.S0, thiul. Time, 1.47 1-5. Autumn, Dr. Kendall also ran.
Sixth rnce, Hot Springs, 3-year-olds and up, mile and a six
teenth, selling Budweiscr, 106, Murphy, 5 to 2, 4 to 5, 2 to 5, won;
Duke of Shelby. 108. Hammer, 0 to 1, 2 to 1, even, second; Klnjj
K - Kaclfr-pf , 105, Kelsny. 12 to 1. 5 to 1, 2 to 1. third. Tim",
i."3 1-". tlViuv.', AtiVTi 3v?30s and SI J?nto al'so vn
A
-1. Vv ..
-I".,.
I '' J ' "
1
GERMANS ANNOUNCE BIG GAINS
BEllLIN, April 3. All French positions on tho left bank of the
Mouse, noith of Forges, between Haucourt and-Bethincourt, are in
tho possession of German troops, the War Office officially announced
this afternoon.
NEUTRAL NATION PLANS BIG ARMY ORDER
GLASGOW, April 3. Clothing manufacturers in this city havo
been lequested to tender bids for 250,000 yards of khnkl army cloth
for a neutral Government. It is required that delivery shall begin
without delay. It Is assumed here that Holland may be the neutral
Government which is seeking this cloth.
NO HIT, NO RUN GAME
McCall, pitching for Episcopal Academy, this afternoon, shut
out Ccllingswood High without a hit or a run. The churchmen won
from their Jcisey 1ivp.l1 by the scoie of 1 to 0.
FREIGHTER PICKS UP WRECKED SCHOONER'S CREW
NBW VOItK, April 3.. A wlulcss, message fiom tho BrMat
freighter Pine More today stated
tho ciew of the British schooner Annie E. Xaider, which was bound
tiom Newfoundland to Gibraltar, but the nature of the accident to
the ftolylttcr wan not disclosed.
HOLLAND MOBILIZES; BRITAIN DENIES INVASION
WASHINGTON', Apill 3. Secietary of State LaiiHhiE late today announced
tlj.tt lie lutil obtained Infotmation through ofilcial channels that Holland Is
mobilizing her army, and that uddltlonal
tho colors. The Secretary fcaid that his
nn Indication as to the cause of the culllns' out of the troops.
LONDON, April 3.
Tho Hiltlsh Kmelfiii Ofilce announced this afternoon that there was no
foundation for the tumor lint Holland's warlike preparations are due tq any
tin eat by the Allies to violate Dutch neutrality.
SLAV TRANSPORT OF 12,000 TONS SUNK
CONSTANTINOPLE, April 3. A Russian transport carrying tioops lma
been sunk In the Black Sea by a Turkish submarine, It was announced by ths
Admiialty. The transport, which uas sunk on March 30, was a vessel of about
U.000 tons.
FOE CRUISER SUNK, GERMANS SAY; BRITISH DENY
UEKMN. Apill 3. A Uiltish armored cruiser of the County class, Buppowd
to ha e been the Donegal, bti uck a mine and tank about the middle of Febrjwyi
the Cologne Gaiette stated today, declaring It had Its Information from rsjuabUf
Miurcew. "
CLYDE MUNITIONS
LONDON, April 3. Official announcement, was made this afternoon thatj
Clyde munition workers' strike has been
tomorrow.
SERB LEGATION AT
PAH1S. Apill X A dispatch from
Huas News Agency says: "The populace
legation at Sofia, utys Infotmation obtained from a reliable sourcij
gurUu authoiitttw arrested the men left
ku.11 Minister at S01U protested to Preinlei
of the people on the ground tliat Berbil.
legation building belonged to Bulgaria'!
- - ' ' ''"
that the Pine More had Picked up .
classes of troops have been called to
Information did not give In any way
STRIKE ENDED
settled and that the men will resume-
SOFIA PILLAGED
Athens, dated Saturdaj. recelvj
has pillaged the building ofj
In charge of the bultdln;
Iladoslavoff, who justj
having ceased to exist
A
fi
1
