THE WEATHER FORE1
Overcast to-day andftTi
bly rain to-morrowCTg
Highest temperature yesterday
tin.
IT SHINES FbP ALL
Detailed weather, mull umaritic
,, v t
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 210.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, APRIL tt, 1916. Co;nrip.f,l!MMl fie PriM-finf and rMMMMiiyasjocmflflii.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
CAST. -
ftwIcrWest, 40,
PajajMMv
jjMr
VILLA RAIDING
WITH 3 BANDS
NEAR MINAGA
lliis Kludcd Amoi'icnii Vm
snors, Say Reports From
ilie Front.
CHIKFXOTA CRUTLE;
T1MCK TO FOOJi FOES
Joined liy Col. Cano and
I.IHIII Carrana Troops,
Is Report .
CHASE .MAVtiOOX
FOK HIAXY WEEKS
Supplies us "Commercial
Iiiibinos"' Reach Army
at the Front.
t is lii no il.muor of linnu'di.iti!
tap .ire n-ixiriM from tho front l.it
MB " nld. 1U- has l lmli-il Ills .incr
i an purMin.-' is the Ixllcf.
Mr as not wouuilnl as rofoi teil, it
t ow fM, Imt had the rumor Mirvuil J
:n irnk hit too.s,
S .l.i vas not in tho 'Iplit with Col.
fiiuld at OiiciriTo, iii'i'imlliiK to ndvlivs
,'rrni t'lillitialiuu i-ity Ui-t nlttlit. He
rrportcd at ('usIhuirlaohU-. tlfty
Unas iutlii'.it-t of Oiurroro. and thu
ni'fiMtcd Mdillcry wito In of hi"
'no liivlMun.
t'ol. t'ano is mi id to havo dirltcd
'"nn-.itiai nml Joiiifd Villa with I.01.1U
lil 11.
(li'ii. IIiTH-ni with l,.aui inrii u at
i .cs una, wluro ho 11 mains p.u?sir.
SPMJAU 11 Y UUUU
I'nborl. Is Itcporl I'lfly Mllrt
oullirnsl of liucrrrro.
Ss A.VToNlo, Ton., April - I ics--.1
.-lies from Oen. Ivii-hln? to lien
1 uuMon to-nlRl.t Indk-.itx that Villa I
1 no Immediate ilanm r of apturc.
In fa-t the chieftain ha- .Hcn the
m'-iic,m forces the slip and l. roiiiu
11ml at the held of one of three
"id", it Is said. He was la-t mil !tfl
W "Uthward of Uuerrero.
T iesc despatches, too declare that
"1 s fsr from IwIiik a cr plde as was
"il, nml was not wounded at
1 i'i 1
U'bable lep'itts have rea-'lnd lien.
' '.ns Hut the folic of iieati ' l.'ina
.ri.t. mtias under tic command of t'ol.
ro who wtio supimciI Id be d.ll-
i liimlins tho Villlstas l.ini: before
Imdil's troopers delliercd their
-iiia'lilnir blow, have koik- uwr,
. I and all. to the bandit cause.
On 1... 11.. repvits of lait'c Villa binds
t .cr.-nc in the N'ciiuty of I'a.s.u- (iian
- 1 d all. 11 the motor trail, with tlx-
.1-- ' menlion fif alt-ini-tuiB to cut
I'cisMius loin; line of cjiuiuuul
t 0' - h He caiiM'd much uneaslne-.
. -I it tin- I'oliimbtih base. I'oinlni;
' 1 . : . It, If II t ! 1 MMirces, tlle-c r-Jrti
resulicd III lb" strencthenlni; of
...t in. I the despatch trom lure to-
of a heavy Infantry Kii.ird alsiaid
n-. ur t aln, with iktlnltu Instructions
e cut -if attack.
I . cenerally aeeepled hen- to-lilelit
a' ll.ifi puiporled crlpplc-l condl
1 . id hN tlurlit by wauon wiie
1... ' par of some iii-o of the bandit
1 r Ins llluht or to inxclcle too
1,1 -1 1 detachments of Auicrlian
' .1 n :n'o a mountain ambush where
' Lie 111 1. -hit... kuii nilkiit l.i' out
o'e omnaulis b"!orc fini lis location
. be ib'tcrmlio'il,
''b'.s Villa Is .b-llultely located within
et day or two It Is l--lleed here
: i lie', r. ildns v 111 Im-kIii a dofc'Ked
c-.t . for him In tlio ii.ounlaiiis west
" ' sou t -i of i!ii,-iiero. Slneo the ill
ii .f Villa's fone .Much I'll 111 and
(i n 1110 the A ivrlcan commander
is id lulilly 1 .Ui.c.l mobile detach
f -f cavaliy swei-iilni; lu whirlwind
".niiisli the dlstllot about llit-
t is of tin- .-'aula .Maria liivi r In
ff ' locate the eluslin liandlt, e.
p- ' I 'o iiae t-oiu- lu that direction
' UK ili't-pd'atcly wounded.
VILLA SPlJfslSAkD
1STO TIUIKK FORCES
l tiuliiu ri I ( nil." I
I.iiK-kI Itcporl,
I . avi. Te. . A pi H -.' Villa has had
8' inllt baliils opcraliiiK In Hie
Muia.-a dUtrlct and was not
i 0,1 u aii ukcd by Col. Jicsld at
-. ii.-conltiiK to aii.ireiilly
1 n-lvnes to-nlKlit from Chi-
. Word was rceecd that
I , sd.iy n.::lil Villa was at I'uslhul-
' lift- iiiib s southeast of (iueiiero.
Ilei'icra, tla- m-'ssaso r-aid. was
'..Kuna. tify klloni'tirs north of
a it . ullli l,.,(lt) men ami
lO'iiMinatisiieneraln. Kahuna is on
t
riinnhis west Into tho tsantn
Jl r albv
II-mia was said to be wholly
I '
f
r.i.
t'ts 1
not taking any part lu the hunt
carloads of food supplies for
lid Mates arm' safely reached
' " 1 is is Hraiidc-s country this morning
" H, .id 11 serloiiH i-ltuatloii for llm
bj'ti, hoisfs mid intilon. Teh grains from
1 -i Hrandcs ovt-r the .Mexican wires
1'itio.itn r,l lb., nrrlval nf tho train with
'lit .Lenient or Incident, Tho supplies
"-ic sbiipe,i by Individuals ror sale to
'"' army, and the safe arrival will n
J"". It Is said, lu some largo uhlpnientH
iifjin otht-r III Paso merchants Ix-Iiik
Minis once.
"That is line," said Major F.lllott, depot
JlU'trlerinahler at Ml l'aso, to-day when
!.'.,'' "r I'1" arrival of the nuppllcs.
last will go a Ioiir way toward fcclp
bit: tilings, and that t-nrload of mercnuii
lm Is going lo bo a Joy In the officers
nil men, for a bh supply of tobacco,
t'K.irs nml candy ih rarrled,"
Api..iing messaged havo been coining
Jfl from oftlcera and men alike for all
W thesfl iliings. Canned iwacbta and
GERMANS ARE DELIGHTED.
Hrjnlco ii Wilson's Jlimoul I lr
in
.Mc.lco, uny llmimlch.
l.o.xpo.s . i-ll 2.- Aecorillni to a des
patch fr mil Ib-rue to the .Vnniiio Pn,
tin- tiritnuns lire n-juiclng over Amer
ica's dllHcullles hi Mexico. Tlio ilii.iti'li
quotes tin Leipzig Xivnlr- .Vm-fti trhli it,
mi Influential origin of tin- National
Liberal vurty, as oaring :
"Pntddcnt Wilson now has Ills war.
iiinl we should make ontsevs ridiculous
If i' rotirculcd the fall that wu ute
ctn.'l lir lias it :i -.'lad us the Hngtlsti
etc sorry that llio rlnrglos of the. Prcsl
(It nl llml scope In Ills own hemisphere.
"We lire imenvlullit enough to li(,n
that Dr. Wilson nia . an iiiuuioulir of
I Is empire, make n t r It ttiit l 1.1 n t i-ntry Into
Mexico with Vllla'ii kciiIp hanging at hi
loll. We lioio tin- iinilillloii of tlio war
like Piesldent may In- gratified liy tlio
acquisition of cvni tlio whole of Mexico
imil oilier tetrltory up to the Panama
Camil, fop nit I Ir digesting thin hard nut
Jonathan iiuim cense tu lit.- John Hull'a
V.lllltlg sol Villi!.'
GONZALES TO CLOSE STORES.
. . .
Determined In l-'nroe Ilium Prior i
In Mil In. t'M.
Spftinl ViiUe I'fpatrfi to Tin
Mi:mcii Titt, April "J. Orn, fliinralcs
z.we out 11 Ioiir htatciiirut laM nlclit In
ttlikh hr tliif.itrtinl villi tlip nld of the
local civil niitlinrltl.-w to fonn mcrclianls
to rcduw their iirlern nttlilti a rcaonuhli;
limit.
I to would tal(- rtrattr iur.i$uicy. In
slid, (0 vunUli tliu.-n wlin ate practtflui;
rxtoitlon nt the rxix-t of thn pulillr.
Tlio ;-m nil ald lio would clivn llir
idoiM of tliojc who continue to maintain
l.lEh vrlccj.
Novertlioles t'afte wan nn icdiictlon In
rrli'es to-day. Th- itirrrlintttM nro ratlu r
at n lo-i to cMilaln 'iirrati7-i's threat to
Miiiibh them. Tliey think lit merely In
tends to maintain prlii'S pendltnr dfvclnp
ments, fcailtiK ,1 further drop In the cur
rency. Tile threat, however. wonlcM
them, they now fearlnc now radical lecis-'
latlon loiiirdmt.- trade.
Some will if dnee their i.rlees Mlabtlr. !
ri-ovldlnK that, the curieiiev ImUU rj. ,
ltanks aic Militia r.xeliiuiKK at 3 cents on
the peso, closlnir at 3.:.'.. t.omc t-n the cut li
PH.xIiik 3'i leniH for i-sris.
illllelal liotltlcatlon of I Vuinat l.'.s lecog.
lilt ton of the Cartniiiu i!otrnuient was
received to-day.
DOCTOR, STUNG BY
CRITICS, KILLS SELF
T. I!. SiipIo, i liicimo Tiiliprcu
lonN Epprl. Atltls Climiix
0. roliticiil Fiulif.
Cilli'Ar.o, April ". Hr. Theodore I!.
Sachs, widely known as an expert In
tuberculosis, killed himself to-day with
poison at the iMw.iriN Sanitation!
at '
Napcnlllr, III. Thi' Is Hie latest d -velopinciit
In a bitter political tlcbt
which has attracted uiiunml aitetitlou lu
medical tirclcs all over llm rouitlrj.
Hr. Sachs bad been at tin- load of the
municipal --anltat linn, which is devoted
to treatment of tuberculosis 1 ases. lb
was appointed three or four ems a no,
and whin Major Thompson look chant"
of city alfalis meat piessuie was put
upon tin- Mn.vor to ntalu Hr. Sards,
which he did until unite recently Then
Dr. Sachs was dli-placed by hr. I'ald
well. al?o cinlneiit In Ins line.
This Minted a political low which wa
nt I'm beiuht when I'r. Sachs contributed
the crownltu: sensation by UlllliiK linn,
self. His I lbId- sa be was wrapp-d
ill in Ids work at the inuuielpal -a'il-tailutu
ami bis dli-mlssal and conseiim nt
Inability to c.ur forwatd i'an- h" had
liatl III IIIIIHI loi .-e.ie .....1 0.0, ........... .
.....I.. .. .v i.iirli,..! so heavilc 11n1.11 lit!ii 1
. . 1 f ....1 1 . .a .. t .... . 1 ..
that he could not endure to live.
Then- also had been severe cillicl-m lor, l.olh old nml il k. ought to be u-rd
of some of the contracts he awarded at I uncnnveii'lnntilly ni-il lesouicefully In
the sanltaiiiuu. thn- of the contracto.s order that the real Interest l-i books
011 .Satuiday testlthd that lb" city bad'inij be ninled a- far ami as high as
tliiown itway 51 l-.otin on cottages or-1 p,i,he. The iiii I'.iimI- pursued should
del eil built by Dr. Sachs and that tlieyl,n calculated , di ve'op n.s tilt rest and
might hotter ne minu-ii, as mc iu-ii-
unsanitary and Impossible.
lr. Sachs was lo jcats of age ami;
married, but bad 110 children. He first 1
studied law tit Mdessa and then c.ime 1
lo Hush Medical College ami completed
the course In medicine, lie took u post- '
graduate course under I r. Koch In Iter
tin and also studied conditions 111 ihe
sanltiilluni-5 In Coloiado mid oilier
places, always spcciall.lng lu tubercu
losis. STRIKERS DYNAJIITE TRACKS.
WllUesbarre lliillii Uniiiaiti-il
Malt' Police at tVnrk on l ines.
Wh.ukhii.vium:. IM.,'Airll :. - ljn.i..i.u.
Ins took the place of noting In fie
WvomlnK Valley to-daj. Tracks on the
llml un division wci'e blown iii and
olf on the i-utoff of tl.c llaivcy's I.akc
division. A car was wrcu.ect 111111 the
roadbed for a ion.; distance was dam
aged.
Olliclals of the Wllkesbarre Hallway
Fompany rl.ilui that scvcnty-llve pounds
of djnamltc were u-id bj strike sjni
pathiv.crs. n.viiamllc caps vvcle placed
n the South Main slice! lira- In this
clly and cxplodul. and much excitement
followed. No urrestt have been i aue,
hut State police me running down clues.
TWO AIRMEN LOST IN STORM.
I'nrecil lit llrm-rinl .-nr rhni-iiliili-
tH VIcxIchii Mils Tliein.
Flint Hi:viQi'Ar.Ti:t:s. Nkai: Nami-
cjt'll'A, Moxli vprn i, via itiioioioi o-
luinlius, ,N. cl April :.-i" cuiciican
wvIhIois who havo been missing vvun
their ncpiplaties slir-u l-riiiay uiiernoon
i.irlved held this nflernooii. lliey weiei
caught I" " 'iiin and snow slieiii lu
Chocolate Pass, ten. miles sotilli of line,
while en unite from Namlctnpa. They
lost their wuy iind were forced lo de
scend near a Mexican house.
Tho native rancher at whoso plan- tho
iiem-i-nt was mado gave the lost avlatots
l-n.i.l -itlil
l.ul"nir mid lu ought them lo
heaihiuarlcrn. Horses iind wagons weio
sent Imck for the undamaged machines,
The aviators vvnn louuwi-u inis pass
narrowly escaped death when they faced
n 'blinding ruliuturm belween lowering
walls.
WOMEN KILLED IN RIOTS. .
Demand llr-Mil i"l IVm-r hi An
Irln mid Hnhrmln.
Hinial Ctthlt DttpaUh lo Tiik Six.
Hojik, April 2. Advices received beie
eav that sevciiil women
were
killed In
lecnit tllsonlerH In
Trieste and Agraiii.
Vienna,
Prague,
Crowds of women attacked (he (lov.
ernment nfllccB, ilemandiiiK biead and
tba conclusion of peace. The troops were
called out and flrad upon the crowd.,
kllllnar Vral women.
ROCKEFELLER BOARD
PLANS ODD SCHOOL1
(voliifiimnry Idea
Would I
UNciird Xeiirly All Courpps
Now Tfliiglit.
n.KXNKK (SIVKS (H TI.INK
N'pw York IVt'vbrpd for Triiil of
Kvppriineiii I.cciiiim! of
1 1 Adviiiiliirs.
j Tlif fiitiri ,1 tMuratlon innnrd. louialcil
i by .lohu I). I Sot kefrller mill Itself a put
of tin- Itnvht'fi'llvr Foundation. Issued n
fclittonieiit vc.sterduy advocating the es.
laiiiisiiuntit m a "modem school in N.-w
Vork that if put in operation would In'
one of tlio most rovolutUimirj- cpitl-niMitKi-M'i-tiiril
In thu world of filucatlon.
'I'Iih M'liool ouM illmliialn tiractlcally
(Very ruuisn of npy l"i' clvrn III tile
tmlilif m'SiooN and In llit'lr plan's would
tc.uh Milijot.s piiialiiliit; to iutu.il ui
tl itn-f in Mi' hit, Mxlttf t t-y. nt-tlirtltv mid I
Cl U
Tl.c lutvr was 4reiaied by Abraham
rie.vner. nsj-lslant M-crctarj' to Hie board
rind 11 member of tin clti Itivird of IMu
callon. Thn lollowlnc tiMilutloii tiad been
lidopted by the I10.1t ,
"The tjeiieral lMucitbiii It.i.uil doen
not ludoix- or nioniulcaii- any uliioa-
tlolllll llleor.v. bill I- llllercstid III fliclll-'
Milne tlv trial of ptninlslm; ulncatlon.il
epenui. nis uml-r plot
1 ouillthiti.
leipiiM for
l'.iid iiillhnrle. tnin
rmclem anI MniKfHtloiis, and an ex-
"f iinnlop 10 Hie fe.i-ibilliy
"f "" I'M'Olni'iit f t!i, tpe
Ili'llrtd In llcnl 'In. Us.
T'le utoiiern -chool, a. .ititllned b .Mr. '
riexner, would discipline the inlii.l In'
the only wav in which the mind can l
iffectmly dscipllned be encrsi.in(T It
Ihrinu-h the ilolno of n-al la-ks. An
coponiy of two or tlm-e ears In i.ri.it'
Ini: .1 child for piofisMnn.it studies i the ,
object of this exv-tlnii-nt
"Abe f 1 0111 re.idinc, writ .lis. -jiollliii;
iind iluuniur the currleiilntn of the mod
ern school would be built out of actual ,
iietivliles lu science. Industry. .esthctUn ,
Hud eliles." sa.s Mr. I'lexner. "The
noils in s.-ieiiec would be the central and '
doimnaliiu; feat lite.
"The curriculum tiieludes notblni; for ,
whieli an ulllrmativc case cannot bo made
out. The tuoihin m-lnsil wisild drop the j
stud of i'i. 1 nml Krammai', as It in finite
as nil aid in coricct wrliln-; and speak-1
Inc. The school would not eh throuch !
the for 111 of tencblnir ueless historic
fads because It ban been done forifenera-t!on-,
and obsolete mid uncongenial
clas-lcs would nil bo stinlM,! Iei-wiw,
traillttou hai. mail.' thli- f 01 ill of .iciiuaint-
nnce cood lonu.
"I.atln and linv-k w .uld be bfi out.
of the proL-r. mime. pft lir. aiise they Hie i
not as woiidirful as lbr ate reputed'
to bo. Imt bi cause their pu sent tcailiinc j
tests wliollv on iraditlon and as--umption.
t I- iuei-s to iiniuiiv wbitli-r n laiowl
filco of Latin or mathcmati.-s 1 valu- '
ftble bi-i'.m-e putuls do not obtain this, j
Their .Indies aic .-011-4.0.-1 d of meeliauli'.il j
application 10 in. 111. vo tortniiho not ,
thenisi lv-s utidetstooil.
1 nine of I.iiiiuiiiiui
"l.tiiuiiages, -r :tiiied.
Mild, .
ne valu,C
onlc In so far us fiey are pr.ietlo.illj
mastered. A school that prodtitcs the
tenniceful tpe of modern 111. 111 nod
unman should provide pmctlcat train
ing In one or more tro.lcru kit gu igi -.
fc. 1 ,
"l.lter.itiito in Ho- toim of l'iii.':.i.,.iii '
adaptations and origin. i'- 111 the vernacu. 1
i1N ,sli. lio( to 'tniin ,!s ui.lur or
to iiinki- 1:111 a ' ii.il:c . c
scholar.
Ii,,r"'
The modern school would In the same
way endeavor o develi'i
-Iioniaiieons.
ih'cl hnili-illiig and giiiuit'e mteie-t mid
npir.rchitlou atber ili.in in fash. on
make.H of tnu-'i ai.d i:t if children
nie lo hi: tang ,i and trained with mi cm- '
lo llm icilitb-s of lite ind evlstence the)
in ce.-slbln world Is the 1 1I1.1l.1I0l y in he
used for that put'i-e.
"A modern school Incalul in New Yolk .
would have a Its us-ets the harbot, the,
.Metropolitan Museum, Hie Public 1,1.
hratvs. the Nattnal lllstotj- Museuni. the
Coologlcal H, miens, Ihe city goverumeiil,
the Wcitlier llnrcan. Hie Irmispoiiallou
sjsiitns, lecluics, conceits, pla.vs. 1 tht-r
commuiillles may have I -.. but nil have
much. Piider the vn-reiit s.vslem of ed
ucation children living in ibis rich en-
I vilonnunl get In the main pieclsely th.
' .............. , fcw
ting In Oshkimli or Keokuk,
"Children would begin their work In
the modem school bv getting .uviu.ilnlrd
with objects, animate and Inanimate.
At the next stage lliey would follow Ihe
life cjelc- of pinnls mid animal.- and
sludv llm proces-is lo be olnrved in
Inanimate things. They would 11I-0 h
gin cicilnienlat.on
plijMcal, chemical
wild I1lolog1c.1l. In
sclci.ee would giailu.illv assuinc tnoic
.sjsleinalli! lonu.
"Fluallj, the inodciu scluiu., seeking
not only to train 11 t.u llciilui- gmnp of
chllihcn but lo inllueiice educatUiual
praL-tlcc, can be a seminary lor the train
ing of leachci", Unit Its own ami Hun
others. There, will be. Ihe illlllcully of
procuring ii teaching stnlT, for Ihe present
school teacher has been taught on tm -
ililluii.il liner."
DIPLOMACY COLLEGE COURSE.
Klulity I iilcrlllc lit Hive I.pc-liiri-
on IntrriiHlliMinl llclnt loiia.
Flghly jiiilvi'i'sllbs, colleges and
I mnl schools III the United ST.iIch will en-
i Oieralo with the Division of Inlercoursi
and P.ducatioii of llio Carneglo Ihidovv-
inent for liilenuithiii.il Peace by iifTerlng
during their suinnicr sessions courses on
International law, international rela
tions. American diplomacy and Spanish
and Latin American affairs. The Carne
glo Kndowinrnt, acting through Hio
American Association for Intern. illonal
('oucllhitlou, will supply the liisliuctorH
In soino cases or will grant iiIIoIiiiciiIh
to defray pari of their salaries lu others.
Tho subjects tiro lo be iilTeleil as pai t
nf the tegular college curriculum mid au
to be given by cxpcrlB.
.'he work was offered in al.niil sev-enly-livo
Institutions lust year and tho
lotiil i-urolnieiit was iippioxlmately :,.
000. Tlio object of llio work, success
fully uarrled on lu 1915, la to t-prciU a
wider and mora accurato knowledge of
International polity and International isi-J
w lions.
'STRIKE GALLED BY
18,000 TUNNEL MEN
Kxpct'iptl lo Tip I'p All Hip
Knlnwi. mid 1 ikIitviiiiikI
ron..trnr(inii Work.
1IKMIKK PAY DKMANDKIM
Coittfiicls of Miiii l.nl'KC
Finns Will Hp Affpctpil liy
tllP SlISpLMOioll.
lllslitren tlioiiiiand member of the
International Tunnel and Subway Con
structor I'nlon met rMcrilny at the'r
headqu.irteri'. i;.it Klli Mreel.
and called a ft lu'. which will tin up
not only thy new .ubway stems of
this city but al-ii .ill the rewer and
tmdonrrnund contrmtlon woil;, uiiIcsm
tlio ceinnnrt of thoe tnvolxed arc
crantcd.
Timberaieii, t..vir iiclprrs ai.d lab r
rrs a.e the woikcr who a in asklnc for
I,1"r,'
nioii"j- Tlio tlinhoimrn. who have
ihir.ilemns to trl for mhii--
OfOII
'time, want .l C." a diy their heln-n
I want V and the laborers demand t. 1
;i day, fo.- cisht hours woi'i, I
Thomas 1 nil ion. Urn !ce-pre.dent '
of tho union, announced that twenty '
emtr.ii'tor would haic their work tied
up as .1 result of the ceticral Mrlko
ole. Aowdltis to this ote, the strike
N to be cal!il a "MisH'iif.on." The I
strike s also deni.u d recognition of their '
Union
u linen M'd tint
latiliary 1-1 tile ,
men now uno.v.l hue tried ee. IIi.uk .
Mi-sibte to prcient .1 Mrke "We bie
written to the Comptroller and the Pub- ,
be Serine 1 '.n11111N.-l1.11." he said, "and.
the cor.t.aetor als appointed a coin- j
ti.lttt- to i Pie publi.- ottlci.iN, but the I
bead- of llm city .idnilnl-tratloii would
not se them. wi, luvc been forced
to sirlke. '
It was ant. nun. ed that Hi- ont-.i. t.
of the follow Iiik tlnii" would b affeit-'fi
by the suspension call
Pulled States Ileiliy aid lniiro.--ni..
t Company. Ill llroadwax . I tr 11 i i
Contraetliis 'oiiiti.uii . ! K.i.l l--ortj.se.-.
oiul street, l-'reder'.k I,. Cranford. Trin
ity place and Thames slice! : l.ip litb-ld
Coiist'iii tlou I'ouipany. 2:! I'latbuth ae
nuc. llrooklyu: Klcliatd Carvel Com.
pany. Southern lloiilev.iid and lC'.'lh
stist; llolbrook, Cabot - liollius Com-P.inj-.
."- Vanderbllt avenue, lntercon
tlticntal Constriictliin Coniia'i. ;i" I'o?
ers axrnue. llrooklyu . iicar I'.inlels
Company, .'JS Hroadway ; SaintK. He-kin,
llrooklyu , Ci anford Company, Nlti'h 1
street. I;, li Miilth 'onti uction Coin-1
pany, lot l'.uk aienue; Plum t' liourk .
Coinpany. Inc. IT Itattcry placi ; Smith-
Ifaiiser 1 uinpany. I l.a-l l'orlj-ttrt
street: I'liderplnnlng and Foundation the following oillcers were elected.
Conipanj. ;oo Hroadway: HoiUrrs Ac j President. Justus Kab-sch of Perth Am
Hacrt7 MrrrleTii Hiver and Kr.'d stree : i . t-r-- v i. e-pre-id) nt, Anthony .Muel
Hapld Transit Subwav Cootnicl!Jii , N,-wai.. te. .111, 1 vice-president,
CompariJ. lCi Hfimlu.o . ihiticr Heorge S. h-nult. Itergeu . torrc. -ponding
KvatiS Company, 2:'U Hroolwav . McMul- ' mid rci orilltig - rei.u v. Ki-h-m iei man,
len. Snare TriM. 1JI llast I "M ! ):itnl.eth , llnatu ml i. tarv . A. 1 did st.
sired, and Hie hock Construction Com- 1 i.'.mideu . treasurer Frcdriik HickU-,
paiij, I mon Millar-
Ii an wenng ! al' -c .- out v.
teidav th- str.lier- will .-einble ;
day a! Jioi Fast I. 'Mb stre.-. 1 X .Mi
doiig.il sti'ce
Iv II, ami I !
City.
til C.i 1 mil stt.et. ltrook.
Illglll'l stree. Uu l-ltil
KING GEORGE GIVES $500,000.
War
I onlrlblllloii In lie I M il in
lint ei'lioiciil lh-cldi-k.
,fjft t it,!r fr'ir.' in T11 o
1.0M-JS. April 1" The Prcs Hiikmii
nnnouiued to-.la.v tlmt, tin- following
lener
ha- In en sent to the Prime .Mm-
piovv Pi us; Vi 11 1:.
"Mi i'Mmiiiam Pvi.ack, Man' "!!
".-(1.' I ban- reCMvcd the Kicks .0.11
111. in. I to hitoi in 'von that bis .Majestj ,
has givon 'ii-lru. tl..n- lor the sum of
I flic 1, '.On 1 lno.OOii I lo be pla td al the
I dl-po-al of Hi'- Tlea;in
-l tli., I.ti... u t, ImI. !, it (I... ..in.
which he glvis in con-eu.ein of the
. w.'.t. I... .untiled lo u!i.il..ei ni:itii,..t 1.
! ,i,...,,n 1 !..-. 10 i. .., 1..0 ..1 11... :..
i eminent
"F F. 1 ! Ponsomiv .
ICi i per of the I'i n v Pii.s,
ROBBERS RAID A POKER PARTY
Tin-, I. el l I S:i..-,OI III I ash c.
ulili-s .li-tvclr.
1 Uoston, April '.' The io.a; ,..iii,c
. occasHiuail.. break up Sunday poker
pai (li- Ii. ic. but to-daj a big Ki.no 011
visl spilngllelil sltiel was upset in ail
unu.-u.il mauiier Seven Ten were m
Joying 1111 afternoon a; "stiiil'' when
siiddcnlj lime insked joutlis stepixd
Into the toon-., prc-ci.tcd thin- revolver
I at the ailoulbhed pla.vcrs and ailed
"Hands up!"
1 Tho rubbers lined llu- pl,lje-
''""
the wall and sean licil their pockets. I
I One plajei-, who was the big winner.'
I was icllevid ol I.Tm In money, his
diamond stlckhir., ring and gold watch. I
, The others weir also stripped of their
cash, vvalihcs and jcvvelrj. The total
lumpy stakes taken b Hie Hi'eves
attiouuted tu about fll."."" No i'..:il...im
was loilgul Willi l-i polhe for obvious
tcusous
WILSONS IN CHESAPEAKE
President .,.,. Hulk nl lllil VV nr-
lilp Shi Vlurco.,
NolU'iU.K. Va.. April -Plcsnleul Wil
son spun most of lo-daj cruising In
, Chesapeake Itaj on Hie ucht Mi
i Tlio yacht was off Tangier Si
i tlovvci'
Sound for
several hours and Hie Pietldeiit bad a
close view of the bulk of Hit- old warship
San Marcos, which has been the inri,rt
for the guns of the dreadnoughts of Hio
navy on several occasions,
i Tho Piesldent in I r porl nl to inVo
made the trip trom tin- .Mayflower In
Ihe spot where Hie San Marcos h sunk,
a distance of nbnul u iiillc, In tin .May.
I '
EAST ORANGE GIRL MISSING.
I
I Prominent
Vinson Auks Police in
Find Ills llaouliler,
Chai'les M.ver.s, In the IllMlinlui husl-'
Mm with llcnjiiiuhi ll.iKllnus, inc. at r,r,
Maiden lane, and well known In .Masonic '
circles, rcHrled lo Police He.idiuaileiH
ji-terlay tlvj disairpeaimii f Ids
twenly.year-old il.iilghler, Alma Fuller
.Myers. She left her home al sii Flllue,".
toil street, Kast llraiste, ou Friday,
After she had sliijed'overnlght with a
friend, Mis, Arnold NolU-l of inn llrjani
avenue. The limine. Mr-. Notlel raw hnr
off at Hie Klmpson xlret-i subway Million,
The Kill, however, did not relurn homo
as. expected, and yesterday her father
asked that central alarm be vent out
for her.
'GERMAN AMERICANS
SPLIT ON PRESIDENT
'Anli-Wilsnn. Wool, Koofrcvelt
liVsolutioir l.o.st n1 .Tprspy
Convention.
N NAMES MENTIONED
Delphi I ps I'.iilil All Diiy
Finally Intlorp l'lnns for
I 'rpparpdni'-'.
Kl.tMiKTii, N". Apill 2.--ttrr n
blller debate of several hours tho State
convention of the Herman American
Alliance, which held a fcpsIoii to-day
In Turn Hall, lefmed to pa- rcsolu
tlons uicIiik lierman Amerleans of New
.lerfey to opposo the ictiomlinllon of
Pre-ldent Wilson or the "natnhiB t
Koot or lloosevclt for tho Presidency."
Atthouch tho convention devoted rractt
cally the entire debate to criticism and
denunciation of President Wilson nlid hid
forclKti policy, the "anil. Wilson, Hoot,
ltooseelt resolution" w.n amended by
the rliinln.itloii of names.
In Its amended fonn tho resolution
asked the "cooperation of all German
Ametle.uis to defeat the nanilns for the
Presidency of men known to bo op
posed to the Interest- and welfare of
icrnuii American.".' Three hundred
deb-eate". iepieentiiiK every city aril
count v i'i N'ew .lers.-, exhausted by
an alterT'o.m of continuous w Muslins,
votcu luiauimotisly for the amendment.
ilcorKo llrimn-e, ptclii;nt of the I:--sex
county ib-leuatlon. Introiluced the
atitl-WIIson. Hoot. Hoo-evelt lesolu
Hon." Kx-M.ijot l.atitcnns of lloboken
led the ilKht 111 tavor 01 ine aniriioiiiriu. ; Several strong Infanlr attacks weie
Hi- supporteis wete latKLly dclevjales . delivered by the Hermans on a rnloubt
from south .lersi'j m Avocoiii't wood, on tin- western bank
lie-ohitlons wen- pa. -ed . rite I-iiir f t,r ileusi No headway was mad
Piesldent 1I-011 foi allowliiK IhiKl.itui iut;,ln-.t Hie l'i'encli attillci'y and ma
tt "hol.1 up malN to and from the "- ' , lutie CUti III-.
tl'al i'owcis. I lie -ie-ni(ui wan
attaiked for allow iiik Fiiftlaud to keep
milk and food from (ierni.iny's non
combatant population A loIlK set of re-o-lutlons
ailvoi.ncd inllltaiy In-tiiictlon In
the public schools and private Itistnu.
Hons of learulliK.
The invention i.i-ne out strongly for
preparedness and held up "the condition-
brought to llgi.t bj the Mexican
situation as a ibsma e 10 Aiii'-rlcaus
and American lnt'iu'lons."
The convention ireonmicnded the hold
ing of a national couv culiou aflci the
big polttkal conventions for the putpos,!
of Indorsing or apmovlng candidates
that the alliance regarded with favor.
i Tientott.
( New-paje
. were Imik-i
tie .11
'loin t'
'hei o-ltMd"
oliven-ion
Well iiifor.iu-i tieiaian A i''l v ai.s j
sa.d list night Hilt it is estimated the I
lu- m'net -hip of Hie Hot man Allhuce I
thloiiKhoul the Fnlt d States H about j
r.oii'i.ut'i The Stat, oraatilralions are I
1 1 1 1 -- of affiliated so.leties wlikh1
I.. into Hie t-e.iurj a i--r capita lax
The .immiiil of Hie total tax is Used a.
the bas.s for Slgnrtng tie nuinhersh'p
of th" lia'lotial bod j
The National Herm.in Allian. o was
founded 1.1 l'tflrt It - hea.l.U.irt-'i-s ! at!
Ill' Walnut -t'.ci. I'hil id-1,. In. 1". C '
.1. Ilcvaiiiei is the ti.it. 01 1! pre-. den'
GERARD TO STAY IN BERLIN.
iobn--iiilor Sis lie i;iecl to
Iteloilill Willie War I. Ill.
Iti.Rtiv. April n.-.lame W Herald. I
the .Vnienran A ailMs-ador, will not re.,
slgt. li s pot, contraiy to ,1 report J
fin e Inc 1 "lilted States t at he w a.s
pln.ictig to becoil'l- Ihe I h-ino rat 1 . .11 1
ilblite Co- liovern-ir of New York.
In a statement Nviie.1 b.v the
bassidoi. In- -aid he hopes ! m,.j 'n
Iteilln at bast iiut-l the end , f the
W.I-. I'e evpiallll i that he believe-!
It ll.s dlil.V " )t to leive Hie lluSIt.lllt 1
s,st at Hcilin. '"'.pciialK as any po--I'ldc
sticce-sor would not easily wink
into the ibllhiilt and often coinpllcati d
.i.it ir r of lltitisli intere-ks entru-ted to;
linn siicii as tho-e of ii.. and inilllaiy I
pilMiucr- '
ASKS REPARATION FOR SUSSEX. !
i
Prof. Hold "In tails on t llson lo
llriniiiiil .Insllci. I
. I'Vttls
pr.l : Pi of Janus .Mark1
, H ildw in nnnounceil to.il.ij that he had
cabled I'le.-lilent ll-op leg.nillng t he j
attack on the Sussex. Prof, luldvv In'
daiiBhtcr was seiloiislj Injured lu the
..itn.-L Him iMlilecraio was ok r.illnvi-M: i
.. . , ... ,. .,.,11,.,.. I,..r I,.... ,!,
was. carrjlng an Anurtcan . as-port,
stllcken on the Sussex, hovering between
life and dcalh, douumd that reparation
for assault on life and liberty be ex.
njlml"
Miss tlaldiviii was able to speak jes -
terday for the llrst tune since the noel -
dim Her Injiuies include paralysis of.
tin' right sldi.
.
SHACKLETON SHIP ARRIVES.
.
Tin-
Xnror.i Itencbes Veil .eolMinl
From Volnrcllc.
I.o.x-pox. April ;' The Aniaruic -n.p
Allium, which vvat lo have pi Ind nn
Sir Finest Shackleton vvlun he tea -lied
llio Ho-s Sea. lilts, arrived at Foil.
chalinei.-. New- Zealand, according lo a I
news agi'Ui'.v despatch fnnn thai ,ri. ears old, of 117 Fast I ISth street, was
Fveryb.sly on board H well, with tho arrested last night lor stealing her own
exception or iwo mild cases of sb knes.-. u,,y d,,ughl. .. The cuild. .foseplilne M.
The Aurora sent word hv wiielcs, a.H.''' w" ,'l,, fr,"' Ml--' !'rt'
week ago thai she was bully damaged I n. xler ot isl .xnitn 'ak i riv -. nn
and w as In lug lo get lo a New Zealand parent bj adopllon.
ll"r'' j Two mid a half jears ago. when lln-
N.Y.C.DROPS'WRECK ENGINEER.' 11,110 clrl "M ,,f'",, 1,";,!,M;1, Mx M'"
. . . Was loo pom-lo In Ing tl htld up prop
lies
,oo .lob, Imt Tituorniiiii and
I'liiunieu Ire llelnlnril,
Ci.l.vta.VMi. April - - lllained liy tlio
New York Central llallroad for inns,
lug tho Aiiilinst wreck, which co-t
tweuC-elgbl lives, llerlu.lll Hess, en.
gllieer of tll second M'ftlon of II, llu
S, has been dismissed by the road.
Allien liiist, town man, one or llm
i....r ii,.....k .,i in., r. .1.....I ..I,. i
Inroili-y. will he retained, as will Perec
Heach. tlagmaii, rxoueratrd by A. S,
Insults, general superintendent, trom thn
charge that he did not procrly fltjr
lless'a train.
20,000 GERMANS IN BIG
ATTACKS SOUTH OF VAUX
Whole Division, in Four Simultaneous Assaults?, Enters
Caillette Wood French Regain Most
of the Ground Lost.
Kptrml 1 abit lui.alcK 10 Tint if.
r.Mils, April The Hermans followed
up last nlitht their success In taking the
lllaso of Vanv on Friday night with an
attack In very I.hko force acaimt the
French positions on tho Douuutnotit
Vaux line, centring thcli efforts against
tho Caillette wood, southeal.t of Fort
Douuumont. They succeedid In pene
trating the wood, but were, driven back
almost to their orlKlnul position by a
French counlei- attack, retaining only
the northern pa it of tin- wood.
The Hermans usid a full division
(some VO.Ouo men) in tin attack, which
wa.s preceded by an exceptionally ieere
Isimbardinetit by the heaviest Herman
artillery. The attack was made at four
points s Imultaiieousl.y.
As mon as th Herman had for. eel
their way Into the forest strons French
counter titlarks were delivered at once,
and imki of the ground lo-t was re.
covered
I'reiii-li lint of 11111.
The official communniiic isued b th
Froncli War iifTlce to-nlRht alinouncei
that the Pien. li have entirely withdrawn
from the village of Vaux, In which the
Herman first K.ilucd a footing 011 Match
11, complctlmr their occupation In the
attack of Friday hIkIU. The French
line now cxti'hil aionc the outskirts of
the village.
Six Herman jeropknies were hrnucht
down or wcie fotced to make bnslj- de
scents to-daj In the Verdun reulon, and
a seventh was bronchi down by antl
iiiiciafl cutis tu l.e Preire wood, In the
Woevre district Last nlKlit French aviator-
bombarded the tallwaj- station at
Ktaln. bivouacs nt Nantlllol and the
vllhues of Azaiiuea and llrleulles-sur
. Meii.0.
Ilea, I'IkIiIIiib nt Wriliui.
The ofr-i.il omniunhitP'- Issued by the
Ftvtich War nfll.-e to-ulght follows:
lletween the Somme and the ulto
our artillery was jiaitleularly active
In Hie region of Pan filers and Fou
Ititsiourt i iio.tiiwe-t of flojei, and
I.arslghj'. where Herman Iretu'lics
were ib-strojed by our tire.
West of the Metise the Hermans
launched several -tiotig attacks on a
leduubt al .Vvii.nU.il Wvmd, All llio
ussaults weie repulsed bv our tiro
curtain ami the lire of mitrailleuses.
To the east of the Mcuse there ws.s
very splrit-.-d lighting all day In tlio
region of Dotiauniont and Vaux. The
Hermans, after a bonibard oi nt with
shells of larao cillbie. and of ox t lento
v lob-n. e. ili-i.Kd four simultaneous
attacks with ffftlves numbering
more than one ih.i"l...i i Jo.inin iiien),
on our position- hetvvien Foil poilail
intuit and the village of Vaux South
east of Fori lsjiiatniiont they pene
trated i alllrtte Wood. Our counter
attacks. Inn. lo-d im.in dlat 'v . throw
tin tn bull to the noithern part of thli
wood, south tif Vaux. our line runs
along the Immediate borders of tho
village, of vvhl.h we havt c uate 1
th.' last -iiined house-.
VviallU llroimbl lloivo.
In lb.- Woevie lliff-- was ml-lin.t-too
arilllei act'vity lu I.- Pretrc
Wood. An Avutlk was brought down
bv our spei ia' cannons. The ui.n liino
fill .n-nli- Hie i ici man lines
In tl" Vosg. s the the of oai bat
tel Ijs cau-ed an t xplo-lon in a muni
tion denot eist of t.u- llei ha ketkopf,
vve-t of Muei stei
01 the nigl-t of V I l-J a bom-
COALITION CABINET
FOR CANADA, IS RUMOR
l.iinriiT
oiifp
liVpiirtpil in ('oiil't-r-W
itli ( oiniiiiiiil on
S h ! I Cliiii'-iPs.
MTTtv- v. imt. Vpril I i-'p.nt. Ini.
po-ihle to cotillrm to-nigit, has . t li:t t
S.r Wilfrid Laiilter was suuinioiKd to a
conference with tho Puke of Connauglit
th s afternoon at Hovernmeni House.
Spot illation Is current as to whether tho
alleged Intirvlew had to do with Ihe for
tuition of a nonunion coalition tiovein
ir.ent. The ileus.on of the Hove iiu.ei 1 lo
ciente a injal iiiinmiSMim lo ptooc the
' iv.V '0
cli.il ass los not appiar to have
appeased public opinion, the piose
tailing for mi iuvcMi.aiii.il into ah shell
contracts
For a cousliletaole tune tneie has b'eu
llalli of the deslralnlitj of both parties
limiting through a coallilnn Cabinet, mid
In view of the developments of the i.ast
week the reirt that Sir Wilfrid was
'sunnnoiied bv the Coveinor-Heneral lo
toUcu-s coalition mny have some foun.
; dation In lact.
STEALS OWN BABY: ARRESTED.
I '""r A In tiie
I I
III I.I l nl.es
Pnreol.
.Malmic.. 3a
Her From Fnler
,.
)1,s' 1 Harvey
erly, and sorrowfully she h-fl .losephlne
lll 'Uclb'Viie lluspllal In awall uiloptloii,
Mrs. Uexter bgallj iii.nl- tin- child mm
of In ! family last August,
Since then Mrs. Malnnej, who lis
been miiirb'l twice, has visited her
laughter h Pi" honm of her fosl-r
inntlier. Aipirenlly she changed l.ei
mind about giving up the babv, for after
calling there e;-tridn,v she walked out
wit a .lusepipue.
. Mrs, Dexter untitled tile polno,
He.
tecllves Itcllly and llruckmaii look I ho
child and Iter mother to the Hronx de
tective, bureau, Mrs. Maloney ben
charged with kldlupplns.
barditiR s'pjadioii lioid twenty,
eight shells on the tallway skitlon at
Ftaln and oil bivouacs liistallfd In
the outskirts of tho vlllaen of NantlN
lols. On the name iilght three of our
anreiplanes threw twenty-two shells,
which caused numerous llres In tho
villages of Az.mnes and Itibullcs-sur-Meiise,
In tho eouise of the day of April I
our aviators brought down three, en
emy machine on tho Verdun front.
Two other Herman aeroplanes were
compelled to land precipitately In tho
samo region. Finally 11 Kraehen was
brought down m tl.nusi by one of our
acioplanes.
Isint night was comparative l nulet,
except for heavy tiermati artlllciy lire
in the Avocoitrt region.
The afternoon coxniunlquf; -aid:
West of the Metise the bombard
ment was rather violent against our
positions In the Wood of Avocourt,
but there was 110 Infantry action.
Fast of tho Meu.-n tin- night whs
calm. The enemy In the legion of
louaumont and Vaux mado 110 new
attack.
In the Woevro the artllliry activity
was feeble. Thero was 110 event of
Importance In the eouise of the night
on the entire front.
TAKK FRENCH WORKS.
IjeroiHiik llenort Mu--rr ol
linn.
court nml .Nt-Hr .'.
tpmitt Cabtr H'tpatcU Vi Tin six (
HiuiI.in. via Isjiidon, April 2. The i
capture of lhench Held woiks northeast
of Vaux Is .nuiouiucd In the olllclal n- ,
port Is.-ued to-day b Hertnati Army
HeadiU:iltel.s Tho sialemint is ni fol
lows .
Snulli of the .-online an enemy at
tack was checked. Th Freiiv.ll bom
harded Hrtheulvllle, riot of Hhelms.
killing l-'rench civilians
Northeast of Haucourt. l.OnO meter
ll.fisS jaMls.) of Freiuh liiiuhcs weru
cleared of the i neinj'. Fast of tho
Mcuso we captured an enemy defeneo
and Hanking works northeast of Vaux.
A counter attack failed. We rap.
tured eleven ollhers, '"n men and llvn
m.i' hliie guns.
There were niinietous aerial battles.
An Kngll"h biplane vvns brought down
near Hallebeke; also an aeroplane
southwest of l.ct.s
In the Argonue region we liom
balded a garrison at Hoinhisle, also
tin- aerodrome at lielfort.
It KIT I SH LINK SHELLED.
Ill K' (inns i-lltr on llolh Mile
From Sonic llc In Vpre.
.jwe,il r,thlt tlriiti ' lo Tin: Si v.
i-osrsiN, April s. -1 lie ofiicial stale
no nt
U
nr tne uriiisii war ";iic sajs.
St l"ol we c.ipttiied an offl rr
and foiu inn. Hietinle ilghtnig con
t.i ties. T'e artllleiy on both sides I
aitl't- about Soucinz. MtKre-. I.oos,
t Floi acd pies. ' here Ins hr en
milling a -tl v .tv ou hi. Ill sides about
llull li'll and Hie I loheiuollern rriloiibi.
Two bo-tile actoplnhiM were driven
down biluinl Hi"
Herman llm s. one
wbi. h was sent out
of our m.i. blue
jestciday Is inis-
leg
(iiii lloels mi llcluinii front.
reeoi' t n'.t' tsyaci. tn Tar Siv
ll.vvi:r. via I'.n April V Th. Pel
clan War t if lire issued the following
stale-ii-nt lieio to-daj .
! The ItelKint arl'Uei.v la-t night
bouibarib'd Hci'-nin po-ition- at
.Mercke.u To-ilav there was violent
artllleiy lighting In tie- -i.tor cast of
llain-i appeile and i tin duei't.oti of
i Iilxmude
HOLLAND ASKED TO
END GERMAN TREATY
Iiinisi I'iippi's Sut Allii-s llnvi
I rii'il I Mt t fli in slop
ItliiiiP Intpiirts.
s;,r, ml i iii, te irti.n, , Tin -i
Coi-cmi via .'. v.i LmiiIoii, April ;
.Most of the hau..-i pveis assume tint
l.tKlaml mil Fiance have irrpi.Kicd
llollatiil to dissolve ilie flhliie Innt,
whereby Heunanj lias Ilie tight to lui
poi t fu elv up the lilutii . ud siop ,'mi, is.
i from i !crui.nv
1 GERMANS AT HAGUE BLAMED.
I London Think The ri- llcspoii
. altile for llect-nt Worlll.c li-llvllics
.Vreif flit'.' O'.wIe'. . Tin st ,
l.o'.'po.s', Apr. I The Ihiii'i Mull,
connnentlng on Hie anxiety reported In
Holland regarding Hi. pos-ilnlnj of that
! iiatlou'h being drawn into th" war, savs:
I "There Is evri teas. m to behrve that
I the excitement In Holland is due to lln
activities of Hr. von Kin lilinaiiii, tin.
Herman Minister at Th
i laglic,
polldl III ol tile
b-P.itili ilati d
1 1 If 1'... -II Inn lu
Tile Allisll-I'lla II . one
.lfro'iileo 'o.vi in a .
M.iiih III summing in
Holland savs.
"lln geuel.il .tltllalio . has changid,
oii-i'iiieily II. .11. in. I has m he op ihe
al. lt. Ihoiigli tlnre I. no imiuedi.iii dan
ger lo the coiinlr.v lis. If. It his bei n
suggested that lb. mo i. I'lgorou- in. a-,-ll
les of Hie Dutch I iov ennui nt had
some connection with Hi., decisions of
the Palls coiilereine, but there Is not
Ihe slightest rniitli illation for such a
ll l-.itl.csl.-.
"In any i .i-e ihe a. t.vltj in II. .11. m.i
has nothing lo tlo with tnc ' ill.. mini
case, but with Hi nvictloii eiilerlalti.-.l ;
that the w.n Is about to enter a I ew
phase. I am In a position in state thai
high Hocernineiu cin lt - do not leg.ud
the situation a- al nil ilisiiuleiiiig." i
As the result of Inipililos lu ootnpctru! 1
I ll :i it ' In l.oililon, the fbifl .Vi iei
nude stands Ihat the suggestion of a
noun Hon bet, veil the situation 111 llol-.
land ami the Paris .oiifere - totally
noli. nn. i.il. and that nollilng whatever-
occurred at, or in' a resull of, Ih n..
lereme affecllii!,' llio fricuil'v lelatnihs
between (ileal lltltiilu and Holland,
Tin Netnerlnntls legation slates thai j
ll has received no nnlli illation of the
rumoix cuiient in Holland, which, it
i.ajs, '.no a eoinplcte ourprlse to the
Icinlloii.
TW0 MORE AIR
RAIDS MADE ON
BRITISH COAST
Zeppelins Af lack l'!atern
Cities Three, Times in
Forty-eight Hours.
: DEAD. IIHJ HURT.
OFFICIAL ESTIMATE
llerlin lleports Uoinbs Wero
Dropped ou London Wat
Office. Denies This. .
ENGLISH AVIATOU
FKillTS ON E UAlDF.lfl
Lieut. Uraiulon Uelieves Hd
Damaged Zeppelin,
H.000 Feet A foil.
.;. (' t'ah'r littpilrh tn I'jr. i
I.umi.s, April S.-Thrftj Zcpiie.lii
paid,
have bevn inadn on ("ileal lhilaln
within the past foi ly-clglit hour..
Thn third of tlicso was mado to-nlk'lit,
the airships visiting; tho Scottish co.i.st
iin.1 tho northeastern and sotillte.isloni
oum.cA of i:ngl md.
Del.iil. of tills latest laid havo no:
jci been ri-ctlved ami t'.-ero Is nn in
formation regarding, lasunliics. Ac
cording In olllclal reporl.s lit least
lie ty-nino persons were killed nnd PeJ
injured in tin- llr.-t and second rild?
Sixteen persons aro known tu havi
lt-oii killed .iil.l u hundred Injured by
bombs dropped by a .epp'liu In til-
iiorthe.i-.ieni counties last night. It
had ovldcntly le'en plumed for twi
Zelipiiiis tn i.iko part in this raid. "'
niathlncs vvero seen aliprniihlns the
coast, but only olio crosnod tlio co.isi
lliie, the oilier retreating over the sea.
serious Firt I iin-i-il,
T '0 oi"iliti''.s rallied b ihe mif .1
X,i'ii.llli vvlncli retiiallied iavc not yet
b'en minium. 'el nr in.. W.n lulu- .
vvlil-'h savs that tho bomb- caused :i
mi inns llio without inmillntilns lln
name o' tin- town I'.ght In-uM-a wno
lenioli-hcd b.v lsinibs.
FuiHii-r iblatl- of t .e cat of F .
dav night. In which at lo t live Zeppt .
Ilns took pan. wet,, n.i.lc tuihll.- bj tho
I War ll!o to-daj T"-e Herman oillcinl
I v vision of this rild was leceived hero
toolaj bv w Iri less.
The He":iiaii statement t'innui.-e thai
London was attacked in the rinl, wh.ch
had for it- ohjcitlvts London and tlo
south c-asi.
A detailed 11 t of the p ent- att.o ke l
is given in the llerlin siateine: t. A.
entiling to the ll.-t, Uonl.s were dropn.-d
nil London hetwien the Toe r ti-..!g-i
and the loidon docU. on lo.bin
C nips ,11 lilt.- Ili.lI'lWes.tel l pa I t of t .,
in. on fact it-n-s at Fullelii and .tin.. -lion
works .it Wnltham Altiiv, Ti e.-c
I l.-n town- ale Ju-t lioill or l.omlon
A bitlerv in ir Stowuiitl.it, In So
.folk, lltt.v-llve mile- lollllca-t of lei'
noil, and the town of l.owcsi ,fl. on
' the Suffolk st, U'o nolo- iiorlhe.ut
of Lindou. vve e ntt'lck'-tl b aiiothe '
eplicl.n. the Herman s(,t,.ni,.ni mv. ,
tipluig that a Inlteiy va- .-'t i. I
ne.r c lo.Iirlilg.-. amiiMiniti.iii p't -iv-re
attacsc-l and bombs were ill-, n,
ou for tl -aliens on the lluiol-'-r
Itegaiiling i'i- i suits --f t'- re i.
the HiM'lll.l'i -tate-neiit s-'.Js thai the
attacks we o sM s-ful, that numerous
Ilns and the collapse of bil'ldlligs wi.n
, l.s.Ved fo II the Zeppelins
, It was olllc allv stated in l.i..l.ni i
laj thai tho Hctuiin n-coni.l of b r l
:s "ab-olutely lal.-e." except ..r i
I inlints-loii -v hi- b it main- of Hi
' struct. on of tli" Zi p ui l.-I'.
I Ib'gai-iliug this Xepi'i-i. nn- iii.--,nii
i.-ate-utni -iv- that it w . .loi.t'll.-d
I to dcscci d In He- I'h i -n. s. ai.d th .1 -.i
sc. ll. lit c.'M'ce ""J "l" til '.'I III-'-
, f.i i. , to iind it. Tl- It ."I 'i t ir
l 111. e a on ill It -e.l v est." da v t l'a' t i s On .
gible. I t by 8'in In-. hd 'Ic-' ab-d
o,T I1-.- Keiill.sh roast -cvinl of
her erevv wen- taken olf b i lieu. si
tr iw li
me, l a.
The it ma'" log i.crnlv.th ,o
da vcl lo have heel ill o 'ii
i:
Iv IM. il
In I'l'idnj's 1 1 I.I.
I'c- gi-ailuil lepainng of the n
-lip iii. I teh nlione isini-.iuiiU.iti"!'
' damaged hi l.e' r'.eiit storm, ma
I pns.s'l.t. t'.e i.t.pitaiion of a mole
I pleln list of the c.ini'llies of the n
raid Tlie-e me now ebon al Ion
'liino knled tni sixtv-nx mjili'd.
A tog lln- tb I U 'lbe of 'hoc
ili...p.-.l on Ho- logct of I 'i Ida i
J S itorday tn lb' cistern - .-l P "'
I .st. i n i oiinti" - -vis marl. .", oiii
' Hi" Inceiidiai -or'
1 lieuaril.ng the malf..il .1 image '
i the olhcial sialism tit sav- that a Hi
I t i-l . hapel. Hnee holl-cs I "I two .
, lues wi -t .l.-niolls n il i"'l a town hi
to ir boils. -. tbin.v -In' "H t-t - ai
' cir "ml were ..rth -.cl.t-.l
Vc.-onll. g lo Ihe W.i i- ' '111- -. no
' t damage wa- .loo.- ' H. Htld
I'I
1 War ' Ml ice Slillt men! follow
' l-s'...s . I -, 1 1 1 .' 1 1 ' ' t 1. 10 l1ttl'.".l '
' .oast la-l 'light -nl '
co'.sl. Ih nihil- ictleal.-'l. So lilt il
ls kll.l'.Vf IIS I'"' '' ' Wen I'll. I
and a lain. lie.: not
Fight h .11-.-- w i re ii. o.oli nr.) , in.
i HCl'lt'll H'C W.IS l.llpnl
i:
Killed b lloiobs
11
W ai
I .'.I
i nn.
nt I'I
If s 11
1 iv
I llu
-I'I'
Ho
I .ml ' .
. s-t ih
nn nt
'I'I .- total .- isiialtn i I a- rue' o'
Friday iiig'it "ere. Kill d, I'I u.
jure.l, ih'.
. ai !: """ i xp t-.-iv'i 1 -In '
b. iii'i.- v I-.. pp. ,1 V li pi I
. !i ipt 1 i ,ii'i I eises aid vv ..itagos
w i ii in.. I -lit tl .1 id, a t" h II ton
),. use. Iiiolj -live loHag- a. d i
liaincii' shed were partiallj win. e.
Nn military damage was caused,
A number of aeroplanes went up lo
attack tho raiders. Lieut, Itraiidoti,
rising C00O feet, snw a Zeppelin U.ono
n
H-
1
ronflnurd 0a Bteond Pf,
t
.a,.l.i!.
.. i
sUiaMimal
