'40.
S2F octet,
Second flf
ASHLAI
HIDINGS
Ashland Grows While Llthla flows'
j City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs ,
"Oregon's famous Spa"
ASHLAND, OREGON, MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1916
VOL. XL
NUMBER 90
Tttoosaitds
In AsMasicF M
Early April Crowd Gives Indication
01 Throngs Summer Will Bring
-Many Picnic Parties.
The two or three hundred strang
ers who are In Ashland, drinking our
mineral waters for their health, see
ing the crowds that assembled on
the lawns and walks yesterday, and
the concourse of motors that filled
the boulevard, might easily have con
cluded that the Fourth of July had
paid an early visit to the city. As a
matter of fact, Llthla Park was mere
ly demonstrating the drawing power
of a beautiful day and of her own
natural beauties. Few indeed are the
parks this far north that can claim
so large a' gathering on the 2nd of
April. What the size of the crowds
In July and August will be, when
special attractions are Btaged and
coast-wide advertising adopted, can
only he vaguely surmised.
During the afternoon three pano
ramic photographs of the park and
the crowds were taken by the Studio
Ashland, as well as nine smaller pho
tos. The weather was ideal both for
the photographer and his subjects.
Southern Oregon, anxious to justify
all claims made for her climate, pro
vided a clear, beautiful day, and tem
pered the warmth of the sun with a
delightful breeze. The entire swing
of Llthla Park, from the Butler-Pe-rozzi
fountain to the snow-capped
peak of Mt. Ashland, was embraced
In the panoramic pictures, which will
be used for advertising purposes.
By 3 o'clock the walks and paths
were swarming with people, the ten
nis courts were In use, automobiles
threatened seriously to choke the
boulevard, and still the crowds
Twenty-four-piece
Band for Big Ball
Be there at 9 o'clock sharp. You
don't want to miss, any of it. And
we will guarantee that you won't
want to sit out a single dance from
the first enlivening two-step through
an evening of swinging, Irresistible
music until the last strains of "Home,
Sweet Home" have died away.
Dreamy waltzes, snappy two-steps
and "pepful" one-steps which just
naturally won't let your feet keep
still, played by the Ashland band of
twenty-four pieces, Is a big attraction.
The music alone will be worth
hearing, and If you do not care to
dance, come to hear the music. Spec
tators will be charged 25 cents.
The boys hope to realize a suffi
cient sum to go a long way toward
the purchase of uniforms. It is a
good cause, It will be a great "hop,"
and If you are not there you are
doing yourself and the band an In
justice. Dance tickets $1.
Friday night is the night and the
Ashland armory the place.
Starts Crater Lake
Road Survey on 10th
Engineer J. W. Ball, from the of
fice of the public roads and rural en
gineering of the federal Department
of Agriculture, Is preparing to begin
the work of survey of the Medford
Crater Lake highway. Field work
will begin on April 10, with a crew
of about twelve men. The work will
cover a period of probably five
months. The rwite will, In all prob
ability, follow the course of the
Rogue as nearly as possible; but that,
of course, is among the official de
tails to be worked out in preliminary
surveys. The scenic value of the
highway will be taken into account.
Engineer Ball began the organization
of his forces last Monday.
The Ashland Commercial Club has
on hand a limited number of the Wal
nut culture booklets issued recently
by the Southern Pacific Company, re
garding the walnut growing Industry
In Oregon. The booklets are profuse
ly illustrated and form a most com
plete treatise on walnut growing In
Oregon. Those Interested may have
a copy by calling at the dub.--, i : ' i
poured into the park through every
entrance. Not only were Ashland's
adopted citizens, her health-seekers,
much in evidence, but there was a
large quota from outside points, who
had motored in during the day. A
conservative statistician estimated
the number of people in the park dur
ing the day at four thousand, while
fully three hundred motors visited
the scene.
The activities in the park were by
no means confined to the afternoon.
Throughout the morning the foun
tains were liberally patronized, and
at noon a number of picnic parties
enjoyed a good old-fashioned dinner
In the open air. Some used the ta
bles under the trees, while others,
reveling In the balmy spirit of spring
time, spread snow-white linen and all
their goodies upon the young grass.
All the fountains were in opera
tion, the lithla, sulphur, and the arte
sian spring of carbonated city water.
The lithla still holds its pre-eminence
in public favor, however, and Super
intendent Graves was the busiest
man on the grounds, filling the paper-cup
holder at this fountain.
After all, there Is nothing so con
vincing as an accomplished result.
In a measure, the crowd of yesterday
was that, for everyone had a chance
to see the beauties of Ashland's park
system to the best advantage, filled
with life and color and movement.
Everyone present seemed to realize
for the first time the carnival and
holiday spirit that is the last neces
sary detail to one of the finest play
grounds in the west.
Police Will Muffle
The Siren's Scream
This is an age of electricity, and
along with the advantages come the
necessary disadvantages. Prominent
among the latter Is the electric horn.
Now an electric horn on an ordinary
pleasure car, used moderately and
sensibly as a means of warning- the
pedestrian, is all right. But a
screeching, screaming, nerve-scraping
siren electric horn on a "two-bits to
Medford" jitney, the driver of which
must vie with eleven other jitneylsts
in gleaning enough travel to pay gas
oline bills, by sheer strength of his
siren horn If necessary, is an abomi
nation in the ears of the long-suffering
public. It wouldn't surprise us
any day to see the old scout on top
the Carter fountain take a shot at
some of the drivers who let their
screeching signals blare clear from
the White House grocery to the Pres
byterian church.
To Bave such a tragedy, which nat
urally would reflect on the Ashland
police department's ability to keep
the peace, the police department Is
going to Issue a few ultimatums to
the jitney drivers which will Insure
a little more peace in the family and
relieve the strained look on the old
scout's countenance. A few simple
rules regulating the' amount ol
squealing and shrieking which may
be indulged in and designating regu
lar stopping places will be outlined.
Almost every week sees another
line of cars added to the swarm.
There are the gray pennants, white
pennants, red pennants and yellow
pennants. Pretty soon there will be
a shortage of colors and we will have
pink and orange striped pennants,
blue and yellow checkered pennants
and other hideous combinations
which will jar on the sensibilities of
the, public even more than the vari
toned siren horns.
$ ' S
Mrs. D. R. Mills passed away S
S this afternoon at 2:40, news of $
3 which reached this office too
late to chronicle further par-
ticulars.
$$$$2$?SJ$S$$
. Mr. and Mrs. F. 0. Bwlngle made a
taxpaylng trip to Jacksonville Satur
day,,.; v;
..Sunday
tlila Fmk
Pictures for the
Ashland Schools
Under the auspices of the public
schools of Ashland end for the pur
pose of obtaining pictures for the
walls of the public and high schools,
the Elson art exhibit of famous pic
tures will be shown at the armory on
the afternoons and evenings of Wed-
nesday and Thursday of this week,
April 5 and 6.
The physical training department
will put on exhibitions, drills, folk
dances and other entertainment, and
music will be another attraction in
add'tlon to the picture exhibition,
which is well worth seeing. The chil
dren of the schools are selling tick
ets for the exhibition, the admission
price being lO cents.
All of the proceeds will be devoted
to the purchase of pictures for the
schools. No doubt a number of in
dividuals and organizations will pur
chase pictures for presentation to the
schools. All pictures purchased and
presented will have a brass plate at
tached, suitably Inscribed with the
name of the donor.
This exhibition of pictures is one of
more than ordinary Interest. It con
sists of carbon photographs and en
gravings, loaned by the Elson Art
Publishing Company, Inc., Belmont,
Mass. The collection is a large one
and conta'ns only the very best repro
ductions of the masterpieces of art of
different countries and periods. Near
ly every gallery and country In the
world would have to be visited to see
the original pictures which are here
brought together in one rollect'on.
The collection comnriaa two hun
dred subjects representing all the
principal schools of art and Including
many reproductions of sculpture,
architecture and important views
from nature. - Few collections have
ever been brought together which so
completely cover the history of art
of all times as this. A catalogue will
be on sale at the exhibition hall.
No city or town should be indiffer
ent to the culture and refinement of
its people. It Is part of the school
work to Inculcate these qualities in
the children through whatever means
it has at Its disposal. The wholesome
and refining influence of pictures of
the right sort on the school walls
now generally recognized as one of, The no(,e gervwJ on n railway . Southern PacINc at Sacramento; F. ;' the manufacturing concerns within
the most valuable means of Becurlng mana(?erB ,n tne United States Is ' C. Lathrop, assistant general pnssen-; Jackson and the adjacent counties of
this end. The funds for purchasing glniar in every case and follows the ger agent of the Southern Pacific at ! southern Oregon and northern Cali
snch pictures, as well as an oppor- f prescribed by the chiefs or the Rnn Francisco, and L. II. Nutting of Morula have been put In touch witU
tunity to make a selection from a
very large number, is secured by
means of the exhibition. The larger
the attendance, the greater the num
ber of pictures that can be secured
for the schools.
Ashland Fruitmen
Adopt Agency Plan
At a meeting of the members of the
Ashland Fruit and Produce Associa
tion and other fruitgrowers of the
Ashland district held Saturday after
noon at the Commercial Club, the
fruitmen voted unanimously to accept
the contracts of the government sell
ing agency and to take membership
with the Fruitgrowers' Agency of the
Northwest, Inq.
The contract which will be entered
into by the selling agencies with the
central org:i;ii :ation and the growers
with the selling agencies was read
and discussed. The fruitgrowers were
made to understand taht this year's
results would be but a beginning and
that full co-operation would mean
much greater results next year.
The matter of a standard pack was
emphasized by several speakers. No
definite decision was made, but It was
the consensus of opinion that the
packing should be done In a central
station.
Mr. Relmer, manager of the fruit
experiment Btation at Talent, spoke,
inviting the farmers and fruitgrowers
to make a more general use of the
experiment station, which Is main
tained by the government for their
benefit. He congratulated the grow
ers on taking the action which they
did and predicted good reBuUiilj..Ho
stated that the experiment Ration wag
In the vallev to work out the farm-i
ers' problems for them, and -urged P
visits to the farm. Among the prob-
(Continued from Page Fon$) '
Hobo f ays Laziness
Is Gilt Not Disease
"Lazincss Isn't a disease, its's a
gift." Sa spake the sooty counte
nanced knight of the rods who with
some six of his fellow travelers had
climbed down from the rods of a
southboiiiid passenger In the Ashland
station lute one night last week.
"You see a whole lot of them guys
hitting the freights for the north and
call them hoboes. They're no more
hoboes ytlian that baggageman over
there. There Is all kinds of work
openin' up in the north, and, take it
from me. it r.ln't healthy for a man
to stay around where there is too
much work. Some g;:y is liable to
make you take on some of it. Me
I for California, where you don't have
' to pay postage on your booze. Say,
I you couldn't let me have a quarter to
i get something to cat? Honest, I
ain't et nothing since we rolled out
! of Portland yesterday niornln'."
He was one of the scant dozen
southbound transients who pass
through Ashland nightly. The heavy
box-car tourist travel Is, northbound,
as he says. According to the local
police, there were 167 trampB, hoboes
and unemployed who Ftopped off In
Ashland In one day recently, and an
average o! over a hundred daily.
I There are cared for at the Fourth
street fire hall "hobo hotel." Besides
these who come under police surveil
lance there are dozens who escape
the watchful patrolmen and mnke
their beds in the barns along the right
of way.
Nearly ail of the northbound trav-
elers appear to be in search of work,
and, according to reports from the
north, will have Utile trouble In find
ing it. H Is tbe southbound tramp
who Is the real genus "hobo."
Railroad Workers
Ask Eight-hour Day
Formal notice was served Thurs-
day by authorized committees of the the Southern Pacific railroad "did" I transients at nome, tnose using ma
locomotive engineers, conductors and Ashland and the Rogue River valley j Intent help will be helping to keoi
trainmen, on the Southern Pacific last Friday. The party consisted of nie boy or girl in school. The bu
Company for revision of schedules of J. H. R. Parsons, general passenger , rwni is In, operation now, so call tha
pay so that hereafter the employes 1 agent of the Galveston, Ilarrlshnrg & , help Is needed. Next fall
will be paid on a basis of eight hours ' San Antonio railroad, the Houston & j thorough campaign will be made to
with time and a half for overtime. ! Texas Central railroad, the Houston secure places for boys and girls to
The demand also contemplates that, 1 East and West Texas railroad, Hons-1 work for their board, and a number
excent in nnssemrer train service, the , ton & Sbreveport railroad, and Texas ; of young folks who have heretofore
j co.reated bagig of ,,'ay on mlieage
Bhan be 100 miles to constitute eight
v,; , .hathor .,t0)n. ,.,, in
j eignt hourg or not Firemen are not
! -,...,.,, ,n thp nrnlmspi, npw B1,npil.
is!. ., . , , i,., ,.,
employes' organization In Chicago.
April 29 Is the date set for surrender
of the railway companies to the de -
mauds for. increased pay or for re -
fusal to yield
The demands involve 180 rallwav
.ntpni. with (in nnn mile- nf ,BM
of way,- exclusive of terminals and
yards. In the western territory
there nre 100 railroads with 138,000
miles, In the eastern territory sixty
roads with 63,000 miles, and In the
southeastern territory twenty roads
with 47,000 miles.
The employes, according to local
railroaders, are opposed to arbitra
tion, claiming that the companies
failed to live up to former agree
ments made through arbitration.
However, provisions have been made
for concerted action on the part of
tbe workers throughout tho country
for a meeting with a representation
of all the railroads by the committee j
representlng the workers.
Granting of the demands of the en
ginenien and trainmen would mean
lower wages for some and higher
wages for others on tbe Shasta di
vision, according th local railroaders.
The switch engine crqws at Ashland
would have eight-hour Instead oflllltllUl iJJJbaiWJ
twelve-hour shifts as at present. Tho
overtime clause Is Inserted In an ef
fort to force the railroads to cut down
on the practice of working the men
overtime and would assure Ashland
railroaders of more time to work In
their garden patcheB.
4
3 COMMERCIAL CLtU.
Commercial Club meets to-
night at 8 o'clock. Major Mc-
$ Alexander of Oregon Agrlcnltur-
College will sieate Several 0
Important mattejp for
rs consideration and a food attend-
wfi ance Is; desired.
Grants Pass Will
Be Here on 4th
Ashland may surely expect a mon
ster crowd at the Springs Dedication
celebration on July 4, u and 6. All tlon has linen formed for the purpose
of the southern Oregon titles are can- 0f Hld'ng high school students who
cellng plans which they may have have to earn part of their way
laid for these dates and promise Ash- through school, to find employment,
land their fullest co-operation. Thie are several young men 'and
Several weeks ago word came to Wouien attending high school who re
the Ashland celebration c-ouiuilttee i qllre some manK of niukins a Iittl
that agitation had been started at ! mol)(v or of earning their board lii
Grants Pass for a celebration on the 0rdcr t0 Btav in school, and it Is wltli
Fourth. The committee wrote to the tle object of organizing a systematia
Grants Pass Commercial Club, tolling; m,,,iin, for securing tho odd Jobs
them of the plans laid here, and re -
ceived the following reply:
Grants Pass, March 31, 1916. )
Springs Dedication Committee, Ash
land, Ore.
Dear Sirs: The writer presented
your letter of March IS at the last
n.nnl.. ,.P l..,n,.,l nr ,.L.na n,wl
mct-miB ui mc iiuaiu ui u n
i it was the unanimous verdict of the
board that Grants Pass ought by all
means to clear the track and grease
tne rails tor me Asmann ceienrauon
on July 4. We assure you of the
hearty co-operat'on of the Commer
cial Club and of the city In your un
dertaking. It Is very probable that tho club
will arrange to attend In a body and of ),;,, rnn p,,t pm,. (.all,)Io 1)oy
lie of every assistance possible in ! for t)lft work t)V ,.u,)f, ,, th0 hlgli
whatever stunts you may have school. A careful record will be kopt
planned for the day. 0f tlm efficiency of the boys and those
We will appreciate your trouble If j wno oml,oy them can ass'st by phon
you will keep ps posted as your plans ! in(? n rpmrt of tm, i)0V- Besides
I develop so that we can keep the mat-
tor before the people,
I We are planning for a fair and
; celebration in the fall and are count-
Ing on Ashland's support at that time.
Yours very truly,
RALPH E. RILEY,
Assistant Secretary Grants Pass Com
mercial Club.
High Officials
Spend Day in Valley
A big party of the high officials of
j & New Orleans railroad; Phil K. Cor -
j don, general agent of the Sunset
Hm.te Southern Pacific and "Atlantic
steamship lines, with headquarters at
San Francisco; R. .1. Smith, district
i f,.ii,t imiu,i,ro mrent fnr the
New York city, general passenger
agent of the Southern Pacific and At -
. lantic steamship lines. Mr. Nutting
' was accompanied by his wife.
I The party arrived In Ashland on
train 14 Friday morning and were
' ioine.l here bv Local Agent G. N.
Kramer, who accompanied them to
Medford, where they were joined by
j Agent Rosenbaum of Medford.
Tho party was taken on a short
' automobile trip through the orchard
; ditsrlct around Modrord and met
jJohn M. Scott on train 13. The en-
tire party were then brought to Ash-
land in autos and taken over the park
and drives. The officials all drank
and enthused over Ashland llthla wa
ter and kept notebooks busy maklngy
notes about Ashland park
The party returned to Medford for
i a late luncli and motored tnrougn tne
j valley to Giants Pas. where they re- I
joined their private cars
Tho entire day was greatly enjoyed
by tho visitors, who kept Messrs. Kra
mer nnd Rosenbaum busy answering
questions and listening to words of
praise of the valley.
,fJt:M CnAiIre of
School and Club
Major McAlexander, Instructor of
the student battalions at Oregon Ag
ricultural College, Is In the city to
day. Tho major Is a graduate of the
United States Military Academy of
1887, and of the War College of 1907.
He 1b serving his thirty-third year jn
the service and Is now a member of
the general staff. 0
He spoke at the high school this
afternoon and will speak at the arm
ory early this evening to the militia
and any citizens who may wish to at
tend, and afterward will speak at the
Commercial Club. ' . ,
CHf Payne makes glove boxes.
Call High School
For Odd Job Help
The bureau of employment of the
Ashland High School Alumni Associa-
: around Ashland during tho school
months and steady employment for
these boys and girls during the sum
mer vacation that the bureau of em
ployment was formed.
The commercial department of tha
high school has been enlisted to care
- ... ....
or lnn cl,;ncai part or me work un-
(i,,r tne supervision of the teachers
and alumni committee In chnrgo. A
file of names of the high school boya
and girls who wish work, and their
qualifications, is kept at tho higll
school.
Any merchant who requires a small
Job of any kind done, window wash-
u jnilitor work, or fa,.t aiiy kmi
tho merchants, anyone having a lawii
: to i,e mowed, garden work or work;
, of nny kin,i Pan gp, tance by
fnn,, the high school. The same
applies to those who may need a girl
for housework, a stenographer, etore
help or anything else. The commer
cial department has several advanced!
students who nre capable of doing
stenographic work, bookkeeping and
so forth equal to the best. Anyone
having a small amount of bookkeep-
ng could find a enpahje bookkeeper
o attend to It outside of school hours.
BesldeB keeping the quarters anil
i half dollars which ordinarily go to
' ''een "liable to go to high school wilt
j he able to make their way.
I In addition to the local odd jobs.
, " njiuemuuu
campaign to secure locations for tha
boys during tlio summer months. All
' . ..., .
1 have also been asked to communicate
with the high school if they will need
"K n.en for farm work. Anyone
j who has a place of any kind for a
'omig man this summer should write
, to tho Bureau of Employment, Ash-
laud Alumni Association.
In making up the list of names tho
boys were asked to give their prefer
ence, or rather to state what kind of
work they felt themselves able to do,
and considerably over half expressed
a preference for farm work. Clerk
ing, bookkeeping, mechanical work
and several other vocations were also
among the list.
Klamath Jury Sets
Lawrence Free
One of tho most sensational mur
dur trials in tho history of Klamatli
county came to an end at Klamath.
Fails when tho jury in the case of
E. Earnest Lawrence, charged wltlx
the murder of Mrs. Alma Kueiine of
Dodd Hollow, returned a verdict of
not guilty at 11:30 Saturday night,
March 25.
The crowd In the court room
cheered when the verdict was an
nounced. Tho jurors deliberated oue
hour and forty minutes.
Mrs. Kuehno was killed Decembor
20, 1915, during a pitched battle,
participated in by several persons.
Owing to the intensity of feeling
against Lawrence on the part of Dodd
Hollow people, who remained to Jiear
the verdict, he stayed In Jail durlns
the night. Lawrence plans to leave
for Illinois soon.
Easter less than three weeks off.
Get In the dress parade. Order your
new spring suit now,. ;. Have It tall- '
ored to your figure" at Orres'-Taller1 :
Shop, opposite Hotel Oregon. It
