THE. BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 16.
HAKKK, VERMONT, MONDAY, APRIL 1910.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
,1
RESIST
EVERY
YARD
French Retire Stubbornly
Before Tremendous Offen
sive in Caillette Wood,
Between Douaumont and
Vaux To-day Regained a
Part of the Ground Lost
Sunday Night
FIGHTING CONTINUED
ALL THROUGH NIGHT
Germans Have Lengthened
Their Front of Attack Be
fore Verdun to About Two
Miles West of the JVIeuse
They Kept Up Bombard
ment Without Effect
sole survivor of tlie crew of 15, has been
landed from the Kentish Knock light
liip. The l'ck'r Ilamre had a tonnago
of 1,080 gross and v. us owned at Bergen,
Norway,
The British liner Achilles wan sunk
Friday, Four members of her crew are
missing. The captain and t!2 other per
Hons from the steamer have been land
ed. The Achillea was in the trade be
tween Australia and England. She. was a
vessel of 7.042 tona (runs and owned by
the Ocean Steamship company of Liver
pool. She nailed from Sydney, N. K. W.,
January 10 for London and Liverpool.
The last report of the Achillea shows
that she left t ape Town March 0.
Lloyd's reports the sinking of the Nor
wegian steamship eXlniento, 1,070 tons
gross. One man of the crew was drowned
the others bourn saved.
The Norwegian steamer Norne, 1,224
tong, and the British schooner John
Priteh, 118 tons, have been sunk, the
crews of both vessels being rescued.
A Lloyd dispatch from Plymouth last
night says:
"The steamer City of Stockholm hRS
arrived with all the crew of the JNorwe
gian bark Bell, of 3,7ti." tons, from Port
land, Ore., for the United Kingdom.
'The Swedish steamer Holhindia of 1.'
15(1 tons, is believed to have been sunk
All the crew were saved.
"The Norwegian uteamer Ifans Omits
of 1,115 tons, is reported to have been
sunk bv a submarine, The crew was
saved."
REDOUBLED
FURY MARKS
AIR ATTACKS
CONFESSED MURDER.
Heavy masses of troops are still being
hurled by the Germans against the de
fenses of Verdun, which are being tested
to the limit at the vital points. The
French are offering tenacious resistance,
and according to Paris have succeeded in
pressing back the crown prince's forces
between Douaumont and Vauz.
Paris, April 3. The fighting continued
all night in the Verdun region, east ot
the Meuse between Douamont ana vaux.
The issue turned generally, the French
war office says, in favor of thi; French
who gained ground in the northern pan
of the Caillette wood which was occupied
by the Germans yesterday. West of the
Meuse the bombardment was carried on
near Haumont without effect. The state
ment says that in yesterday's fighting
the Germans lengthened their front of
attack to about two miles.
The French official statement of last
night told about the success of the Ger
mans in the Caillette wood as follows:
"To the east of the Meuse the action
was very spirited throughout the day
in the region of Douaumont and Vaux.
The Germans after a bombardment of
extreme violence with shells of heavy
calibre directed four simultaneous at
tacks with effectives of more than one
division on our positions between Fort
Douaumont and the village of Vaux.
Southeast of Fort Douaumont they pen
etrateed Caillette wood, but our counter
attacks delivered immediately drove
them back in the northern part of the
wood. South of Vain our line runs along
the immdiate outskirts of the village, the
last ruined houses of which we have
evacuated.
Germans Cleared 1,000 Yards of Trenches.
Berlin, April 3, via London. The Ger
man official statement issued yesterday
announces that leuton troops have
cleared 1,000 yards of French trenches
northeast of Haucourt in addition to the
positions taken March 30. The Germans
took 731 prisoners in the battle of Vaux
March 31. The report tells of the re
pulse of a French counter-attack after
a terrific artillery bombardment near
Vaux.
Man Who Said He Then Tried Suicide By
Shooting.
New Bedford, Mass., April 3. An al
leged confession that he had shot Mis.
Joseph Geffroy of Fall River at the Stag
hotel Saturday night and had then shot
himself, was made last night by Peter
Smirnov while lving on a hospital cot.
according to the police. The police aid
that Smirnov hail first accused another
man of the shooting but after this man
had been locked up Smirnov himself ad
mitted that he had himself shot the
woman during a quarrel over money and
had then attempted suicide.
Mrs. Geffroy was found dead in one
of the rooms of the hotel and Smirnov
later staggered into a barber shop with"
a story that he lwd been held up and
shot. Phvsicians believe that Smirnov
has about an even chance for recovery
He has a bullet wound in the body.
German Zeppelin Bombard
ed French Town of Dun
kirk Last Night and Killed
Two Civilians, According
to French Official State
ment To-day
ENGLAND, SCOTLAND,
ALSO ATTACKED
23 MEN INJURED
IN BUFFALO, N. Y.
Plant of Otis Elevator Company Had
Big Explosion To-day Many Mea
are Expected to Die.
Buffalo, N. Y., April 3. Twenty-five
men were injured, several of them prob
ably fatally, in an explosion, at the
plant of the Otis Elevator company to
day. The accident is attributed to an
explosion of a gas tank in the foundry,
but what caused the tank to blow up
has not been ascertained. One hundred
men were working in the building at the
time.
RICH TREASURES IN ANTIQUES
It Was the Third Consecu
tive Nightly Raid Upon
England, and the Total
Casualties Are Mounting
into Considerable Figures
Zeppelins were over the eastern section
of Scotland and the northeastern and
eastern counties of England from 9 o'clock
last night until 1 o'clock this-morning in
the third great raid of German air fleets
in as many nights. Details of the latest
raid as to casualties and damage are still
lacking. The Friday night and Saturday
night raids resulted in 59 people being
killed and 166 wounded.
Berlin's accounts of Saturday night's
and last night's raids declared that blast
Have Been Added to the Collection of
Barre Historical Society.
A most desimble addition has recently
been made to the line of portraits on the
walls of the historical room. This gift
to the Jlarre Historical society w from
F. L. Mackenzie of Woodstock, and is the
portrait of George W. Collamer, father of
the late .Mrs. Mackenzie.
This picture is a valuable acquisition,
both because of its artistic menu and
also because it is the likeness of one who,
in the middle of the 1 Oth century, was a
very prominent citizen'of Barre.
First a clerk under Major Ira Day, soon
Mr. Collamer, by his thrift and business
sagacity, became proprietor of the old
"checkered store" recently replaced by
the new Aldrich building. The Collamer
residence was the brick house which oc
cupied the site where Hotel Barre and
the ltaptist church novy stand.
.Mr. Collamer was prominently identi
fied with the public affairs of tlw dav,
was a trustee of Ban-e academy for many
years and was one of the most generous
contributors and earnest workers to
make possible the erection of the "brick
hurch in its present local it v. and when
the bell was hung, it was his privilege to
t ike the tongue upon his shoulder and.
mounting the ladder t the belfry4 hook
ine heavy clapper into place ami sound
the first stroke upon the bell. Mr. Colla
mer was born in 1803 and died in 1804.
The cabinets in the historical room
have also received valuable accessions
through the kindness of Mrs. R. B. Fow
ler of Worcester, Mass. Several of the
articles are of more thim usual historical
SECOND BATTLE
WITH BANDITS
IS REPORTED
American Cavalrymen Said
to Have Caught Up with
the Fleeing Bandits and to
Have Engaged in Conflict
with Them, the Place Not
Divulged
NO REPORT MADE
TO HEADQUARTERS
Villa Himself Is Said to Be
in Hands of His Men, Who
Are Escorting Him Deep
er into the Mountains for
Concealment
PROMPT REPLY
IS PROMISED
Germany Is Reported to Be
Active in the Sussex .
Investigation
BAPTIST MINISTER
WELCOMED IN BARRE
Rev. Bert J. Lehigh Began His Pastorate
Yesterday He Was Ordained IS
Years Ago -Comes from
Oswego, N. Y.
A large congregation warmly welcomed
Bev. Bert .1. Lehigh, recently of Oswego,
N. Y to the pastorate of the First Bap
tist church tfunday morning. The new
pastor arrived in the city Saturday and
was greeted personally by some of the
parishioners during the day, albeit the
services yesterday gave many their first
opportunity to become acquainted with
the minister who has succeeded Rev.
George H. Holt, now ofCorona, Cal., as
the shepherd of the Baptist flock in
Barre.
Proving Our Love," was the topic of
Rev. Mr. Lehigh's first sermon in the
Barre pastorate. He drew his lesson
from the second counter of St. Paul's
second epistle to the Corinthians, eighth
hnpter, 24tn verse, which reads as toi-
lows: "Wherefore show ye to them, and
before the churches, the proof of your
love, and of our boasting on your behalf."
In his opening remarks,
r . 41... ...... ,A . i
reiereiice u uw n ei ui . n prompt reply to the inquiry
lift godward and heavenward. Uve. said tle atta(.k on ti10 British steamer Sus
the preacher, is the greatest of all the 8ex aml other VC8,Hels otl wllic) Ameri-
GERARD CABLES
TO WASHINGTON,
That the Berlin Govern-
Expects to Answer T .
Inquiry Soo' "'
- '
,
ii M.aaa :m v ."
" .-
!
Washington, D. C, April 3. Ambassa.
ting on your behalf, jdor Gerard at Berlin cabled to-day that)
ks, Mr. Iadiigh made ! fjl0 German government has promised a,
rer of (iod's love to prompt reply to the inquiry regarding
Camp of General Pershing at the Front,
April 2, via Aeroplane to Colon ia Dublan
and via radio to Columbus, N. M., April
-American rtivalrynien encountered the
fleeing forces of Villa men near
TALK OF THE TOWN
MINOR BRITISH SUCCESSES
Were Reported Last Night in Official
Statement.
London, April 3. The British official
communication issued last evening says:
"Last night at St. Kloi we captured an
officer and four men. The grenade fight
ing continues.
"The artillery of both sides has been
active about Souehez, Angres, St. Kloi.
Loos and Ypres. There has Wen mining
activity bv both sides about Hulluch and
the Hohenzollern redoubt.
"Two hostile aeroplanes were driven
down behind the German lines, (hie of
our machines which was sent uut yester
day is missing."
Mrs. Fred Prouty of Wellington street
returned Saturday from a two weeks' va
cation spent in Plainfleld.
Regular meeting of Ladies Auxiliary
to Clan Gordon will be held Tuesday
evening, Apsil 4, at 7:15 o'clock. Death
assessment due.
Arthur C. Moore of Beacon street, who
submitted to an operation at the City
hospital several weeks ago, was able to
return to his home yesterday. Mr.
Moore is making encouraging progress
toward recovery.
Miss Elizabeth Garthwaite, who 1ms
been visiting relatives in East I?arro for
the past fortnight, wan a visitor in the
city this morning while on the way to
her home in Leeds, F. Q.
Regular business meeting and social of
the Congregations! Philathea class at the
church Tuesday right, April 4. Members
please wear gymnasium suit or middy
blouse, or anything suitable for an ath
letic meet.
Harold Knight left this noon for Bos
ton, where he will join his mother, who
left for that place some time ago. H. W.
Knight will remain in the city for some
time longer, until the remainder of the
stock of the H. W. Knight company is
closed out.
Miss Edna Dashner is spending a few
days at her home on Washington street
before returning to her school in C helsea.
Miss Dashner accompanied the graduat
ing cla of Chelsea high school on their
trip to Washington, D. C, during the va
cation. Howard Parks, the small son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. G. Parks of Pleasant street
returned from a visit to a
orchard last week with what he consid
ered a sure sign that summer was here.
The little fellow came into the house
with his hand tightly closed and after
much coaxing opened it to display a real
furnaces, Urge iron works and industrial j mt,IT(t anJ a,lti,IimriBI1 vallK.. Amnn)l
plants on the river Tees and establish
ments of Middleborough and Sunderland
were hit, inflicting heavy damage and
causing explosions and fires.
Paris, April 3. A Zeppelin appeared
over Dunkirk last night and threw bombs
which killed two civilians.
Scotland Coast Bombarded.
London, April 3. The coast of Scot
land and the northern and southern coun
ties of England were attacked by Zep
pelins last night, according to an an
nouncement of the secretary of war,
which gays:
"A Zeppelin raid took place Sunday
night when the const of Scotland and
the northern and southern counties of
England were attacked. Bombs were
dropped at various places. No details
are available."
Saturday Night's Visitation.
Another Zrptin rcid on Buiglanil Sat
urday night was described in an oilieial
communication as follows:
"Two airships approached the north
east coast Saturday night. Only one
crossed the coast. The other
back.
them is a large covered china mug, which
was used in the old Gospel Village tavern
when it was owned ami managed by
Chapin Keith in 1H10 and later; a blue
and white sugar bowl, which has been a
valued possession in. Mrs. Fowler's fam
ily for l.'iO years; an accordion used in
18,1(1 bv llenrv Wood, who, of-Barre's
sons, is one
forceful writers; two silhouettes in gilt
frame ot stillman and Harriet Clark
Wood, taken about the time of their
marriage in 1832; a pink satin slipper
worn by Judith Baker in 170!) on the day
of her marriage to Zekiel Wood; a
needle-book made from pieces of the gay
silk waistcoat worn by the latter the
same day. The home of this couple for
nKtnv years was a farm m Gospel tl-
hige, a portion of which it now Elm wood
cemetery.
(deleted) early to-day and sounds of fir
ing were heard from that direction, but
no report has been made to headquarters
as to the result.
The mountains of Guerrero are being
combed thoroughly for Villa but nothing
has been learned as to his whereabouts
other than that the bandit is said to be
carried further into the mountains in his
jolting coach.
El Paso, Texas, April 3. Reports from
Mexican sources in the interior, received
here to-day asserted that Villa is headed
toward Chihuahua City and that his
emissaries are attempting to influence
the irnrrirton of that town from their u.1
of those distinguished as i igiam,e to the (le fa,.to overnmetit
Nothing was said in the reports regard
ing Villa's alleged injuries, an omission
which helped to confirm the opinion al
ready expressed on the border that the
bandit's wounds were an invention of his
own reporter with the intention of de
ceiving his pursuers.
SETTLED FOR JIVE YEARS."
Boston Branch of G. C. I. A., Signed Bill
Saturday.
Boston, April 3. A five-year wage
agreement, by which the workers will re-
'ceive a substantial increase, was signed
COL. CANO'S TROOPS
ARE STILL LOYAL
TO CARRANZA
I... 1... IJ,. t 1. .L. .1 -
, I j.ni-uum, iiv nit: jitiBiuji I'iniicii ui me autnoruies
i Granite Cutters International association
and the local manufacturers.
Mexicans at Neuvo Laredo Scout the Re
port That They Have Gone Over
to the Villa Army.
Laredo,
' lor the present we know that 16 per- i ,. , .
. , , , . . ' j The Huston agreement was signed aft
sons were killed and about 1O0 minted. I , . . ..
, . , ,,. . , , ;er a month s conference between commit-
Light dwelling houses were deniol-i ... .. ., ,. ...
. , , . ... i . mtttees representing the cutters and the
ished and a serious lire was caused ml. f 4 , , , . .
,,,..... manufacturers, at the headquarters of
rrench polishing shop. . n , , , . A .
, 1 . . .ii .ithe Muster Builders association at 1((!
A correspondent in a northeast coast, i., .. .
. '.. , ., , ... .'Devonshire street. The committee of
town says that a Zeppelin was sighted , , . , , , . ,
.. , , , ' ' , . .. manufacturers comprised Joseph Ford of
there at 11 o clock Saturday night. It,,, , ,r... '. v, lr
, , ,, . . i " ; Boston and Milford. V H., K. Harring-
dropped 15 explosives and seven incen-i, .. , . , ,r ,, . "
diary' bombs. Ten men. three women and i . ' ' . .... ' , ,,
Tim pulutu. .iflmaa Rolli-ii mi. I llonri
three children were killed and '- per-' , ., , ' , ' .. , . ,.
,-i. o sons were seriously injured. In addition i , . , ... . T, ,
nearhy sugar . j , . . ufaeturers association, and Airs. Helen
J I Decatur, proprietress of the Henry Mur-
Iphv to. an independent concern.
Tex., April 3. The military
at Neuvo Laredo, opposite
here, declared to-day that the reported
defection of Colonel Cano s forces in Chi
huahua was untrue. They said that the
Chihnlahua forces were loyal and w-e
working imlefatigably for the apprehen
sion of Villa.
Christian craces end the only grace that
is eternal. While we have faith and hope
now, and while faith and hope are doing
much for u-s, yet the day is coining when
faith shall give place to sight and hope
will l)e swallowed up in fruition. But
love will always abide. Love lifts us
godward and nothing but God's lovo will
ever draw our lives back to God. Just as
we realize God's love for us will our love
flame up toward God. The one great
thing to keep men from sinful habits is
to let God's love shine in the life.
Continuing, the pastor said: Ixive not
only draws men lack to God, but by it
the life is cleansed and purified. Faith
works bv love and purifies the heart.
Xot only does love draw the life godward
and purify, but it affords protection. By
dwelling in God a love we are protected
from the forces of evil around us.
The pastor urged ution his hearers the
need of showing the proof of their love
to God. There are many different ways,
he said, in which we may show the real
proof of our love. We can make it mani
fest by oliedience to his commands.
"And this is love tlvat vc walk after His
commandmits." Love. is not in feeling
comfortable or in making loud declara
tions, but in keeping God's command
ments. Another way we may show our love,
he went on, is in being submissive under
trial and in tribulation. To bow sub
misf' ely to God's will in the bitter sor
rows of life is evidence that we love God.
onus were endangered.
HOUSE ENTIRELY CONSUMED.
George Clogston's Property on Montpelier
Road.
A fire loss approaching $-1,000 was in
curred on the Montpelier road in Berlin
last evening when the house owned and
occupied by George Clogston, an employe
of the Consolidated Lighting Co., was .
burned to the ground. Insurance of $1,
800 on the house is carried in the Union
Mutual Co., through McAllister '& Kent,
local agents, and a policy of $1,000 on
the household, goods is carried in the B.
A. Sumner agency at the capital. Mr.
Clogston stated this morning that h
may rebuild the dwelling, although he ia
undecided.
How long the fire had been burning in
a matter for conjecture alone, but it was
discovered around 9:15, when Motorman
Ayers of the Barre &. Montpelier Trac
tion & Power Co., noticed smoke and
fkmes in the lower story and notified
members of Donald MeLeod's family, who
live just beyond the Clogston place. Mr.
and Mrs. Clogston were visiting at the
home of the former's father at the corner
of North Main street and Richardson
road. The house was locked and when
William McLeod and others attempted to
force their way in, they were repelled bv
smoke
at every turn. Evidently tha
blaze had long been under wuy, for when
Again, we may show our love to (.od oy j the young men, Mr. McLeod and Lee Shep
our treatment of His people and by our
treatment of the lost.
In closing, Rev. Mr. Lehigh said that if
there was one thing he desired to see in
the people to whom he has been called to
minister, one virtue more than anything
el-e. it was love for God, for love, he de-
cfired, is the greatest force in the universe.
Sunday evening the pastor again con
iueted services Wfore a good-sized cou-
ard, broke open -a basement window, it
was discovered that a part of the first
floor had fallen through to the cellar.
The engineer in charge of the Green
.Mountain express, due to arrive in Barro
at 8:0 o'clock, stopped his train long
enough to give several prolonged whktla
Musts.
The alarm aroused the neighborhood
tliproughly and there were many re
sponses, but any attempt to cope" with
gregation. The text of an interesting the flames proved wholly futile owing to
discourse was taken from Kings II., sev-lthe scarcity of water. Someone tele-
enth chapter, ninth verse, "This 1 a day i phoned the Barre fire station and two
LICENSE FEES NOT FIXED.
heard robins and seen buds starting but
this is the first case reported of the ap
pearance of the mid-summer pest.
To-night the city council meets for its
regular monthly session. The new coun
cil has in prospect the task of approving
for the first time the gri-t of warrants
that
" nun vri n.Y irimnir-r-. II 1 fA'ri t
that the fire committee will report on
bi mil vi Hint ir i,n m,," Miiru miu t rr., ... . , r
. , . . , , ,, The committee of cutters comprised M.
woman tram conductor had a leg blown . . . , . , . ' . .
, , i T 'J- linen, president of Boston branch,
off. Several houses were wrecked in one , . t. 1 . . , .
. . I'ltHII Illilll J iITICIKI V .-lllU IU1CHHIIHI1 ui
secretary; Patrick Flah-
Frank E. Norton
live grasshopper. Other people have j street. One house was completely It,ston' immh.
But Barre Commissioners Organized with
Ward as Chairman.
Barre's license commissioners, W. H.
Ward, John B. Kelly and John Robins,
met at city hall Saturday afternoon and
organized by electingMr. Ward chairman
of the commission. Various phases of
the duties incident to the ofiice of license
commissioner 'were discussed and it was
decided to give the customary notice of
the commission's readiness to receive ap
of good tidings and we hold our peace."
Sketch of New Minister.
Rev. Mr. Lehigh comes to Barre in re
sponse to a call extended him by the gov
erning board of the First Baptist church
soon after the resignation of the preced
ing pastor became effective in January.
The Oswego clergyman came here as a
candidate for the pastorate and the invi
tation to accept a call was forwarded to
him within a few days after he had con
ducted services in the church for the first
time. The pastor took the call under
consideration and soon replied that he
men were dispatched to the scene of the
fire in an automobile. Hand chemicals
were of no use and after while ft be
came apparent that the building was
doomed. EITorts to save some of the
furniture were without avail, as the
smoke was too thick to permit an entry
into the liou-se.
Mr. and Mrs. Clogston had occupied tha
house for the past two years. Not long
ago it was newly furnished and for tht
reason the. loss is especially heavy. Tha
dwelling was formerly known as tha
Frank Danforth place. It is presumed
that the blaze started from a defective
had resigned his pastorate in Oswego and ,Htovepipe, although there is nothing to
" i , v. ! i.im. " ; substantiate tins theory, there was a
weeks. Jhe problem ot providing a home : firt in thl, kitolion stove when Mr. and
.. i..,t !,., r.,...;i i ii.-.. ..,...,.. .t i
.n.,, . .... ..,., .,. ...v. .......v. f (1...rfsf(n. ..
to scramble out without serious injury. . ,,,;-,, T,r,oi iv,,, f 1 nlications. A secretary has not been an
Increased Casualties of Friday Nnight'j iMedford. pointed as yet. nor has the commission
Raid. j Chairman O'Brien announced that by (fixed the license fees, but action may be
A statement by the official prcs bu- agreement the men will receive taken at a second meeting of the Ward
reau last night ve added information for a day of eight hour, the first two .to be held in the council room at city
...I " ?...;...:.. , concerning the Zetmelin raid of Friday ' years ; .4.10 tor an eight hour day the,""" wmy r,r.....K.
ir ii i-nrm, uic ii vv u u i ii in i n mi ui mill i r- - i i - . i . t
of city businc. It is expected I night, as follows: I third year; and $4.2.. for an eight-hour
Hie total casualties reported in the remanming io yer-.
GERMAN WARFARE
ON COMMERCE
IS CONTINUED
Both Norwegian and British Vessels,
Some of Them of Large Tonnage,
Have Been Sunk in Last
Few Days.
Ix.ndon. April 3. The British steam
'hip Perth ha been sunk. Six members
of the crew were lost, and eight have
l-cn landed. The Perth was unarmed.
(The record bow that there are three
Untisli steamship named Perth.)
The British steamer Gold mouth has
lwen sunk and her crew, two member of
hiih re suffering from injuries, was
landed at Jenzance, MVS a Lloyd's dis
patch from that place dated Saturday.
The (ddmouth was of 7,440 gross ton
nage aVd wa owned by the Anglo-Saxon
Petroleum company of London.
The British steamship Ahburt"n has
been unk by shrapnel shell fired by a
German (ubmanne. Five member of th
crew hae been taken to a hospitaL The
vewl, accord. rig V the Exchange Tele
graph company, was n.t armed. The
teainrr saiiej from New Zca and Feb
ruary ?.1 for l.nd n and was lat re
rtnl at If-avine Montevideo, l"ri.C"y.
Marh 1. The ve-?l of 4.44.1 (on
gr.
IJyd' report t!jU the Norwegian
MJBh p Vitrr Harare sunk Stur-
c7 Klt wL.ic at aitvlcr
W. A. Lane's application -for a permit to ; Zeppelin raid on the night of March .Tl
remodel the brick house at 8 South April 1 now amount to 43 killed and CP,
Main street into a garage, with the addi-! injured. Nearly ioo explosive and in-
tional request that he lie permitted to cendiary bombs were dropped.
The old agreement, which expired Fri
lls v night, provided a sliding scale of
Applications are to lie received by the
commission up to and including April
7 at 8 o'clock in the evening. Blank
forms and blank bonds have been pro-
sizeable annex for a machine! "A Baptist chapel, three dwelling years.
3. 5.1 a day the first two years. $3.60 the i vided and may be secured at the city
third vear, and $3.65 the remaining two clerks office. 1 he commission gives no
I,:.. n i: ...: I I l l.nl
erect
shop. As David Gilbertson has qualified , houses and two cottages were demol
as wire inspector, the necessity of con-'ished. A town hall, four dwelling houses,
firming a new nominee has passed. 3.1 cottages and a Irani car shed were
Among the visitors in the city yester-partly wrecked. There was no military
day and to-day were the following peo-i damage.
pie: W. E. Shaw of Northlield. Misses "A number of our aeroplanes went up
Maude and Etfc.i Randall of Lynn, Miiss., ;fo attack the raiders. Lieutenant Bran
W. G. Farrell of Norwich, Pa., Mr. and; don. R. F. C, rising (Whki feet saw a Zep
Mrs. C. E. Johnson of N'orthfield, R. B. ij,Ijn shout 3mm feet above him. At
Streeter of Allentown. Pa., Henry E. ipoim f,.,,t he got over it and attacked
Stedman of Clinton, .Mass., C. M. I w- dropping several bombs, three of which
rence of Williamstown, ,T. P. Magiff of ; , H.,0Ve too effec t.
Newport, N. H.. Mr. and Mrs. W. L. j i.t,.,. he cot over the airshin Benin
(ioodcourage of Northtield. R. W. Swinger Ln(j u,t tT two mrP iK,mtg ovcr )lt.r
of Burlington. R. T. Gordon of Lakeport, ' . Hi. own machine uas hit many
N. II., Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Vuiml.y of ...,, Th- ,
Boston. Mrs. Ella Cushman of Middle-,. .- .. -,,; ,,, "j
bury, WW Jones of Windsor, Henry Hef . Ina(,!lin .. ' ammunit ion. a netrol i
tank and machinery or josibIy that
which came down off the Thames estu-
BILL EXPIRES IN 1920.
dinger of Auburn, N. V.. E. W. lliignus
of Waferhnrv ami F. R Preiiltt of
Fr.tnklin. N. H.
East Montpelier authorities are hold
ing young Frank Calevro of Cambria
street to strict account for the death of
two turkey on a farm near that village
Saturday afternoon. Over- Sunday an
autorv on the bird determined " tiiat
death had enued from bullet wounds, the
missile apparently proieedins from a
rifle. For reason of their own, the au
thorise settled suspicion on young ("ale-
vro, who was arrested at his borne this
morning bv Deputy Sheriff Frank K. '
Blodah on a complaint made to (Irand
Juror A. G. Whitcher of East Montpelier.
Calevro. who is 14 yr old, accompan
ied the deputy to Eat Montpeli.-r, where
it w exported that a bearing would b-
held. It i alleg.- hv the i.fli,-er that
Calevro sliot the turkev arid then ill
appeared.
Conn,
tice that all applications and bonds shall
be filed at the city clerk s office between
the hour of B a. m. and l- 1:30 to 3
p. m., and 6:30 to 8 p. m.
After the time for receiving applica
tions has expired, places to !e utilized
bv first and second class licenscees are to
Paving Cutters at Waterford,
Reach Agreement.
New London. Conn.. Anril 3. The
Booth Brothers and the Hurricane Island; will be published for three weeks, after
Granite company of Wlatcrford, Conn., which the commission meets and gives
have made a four-year agreement with aggrieved persons a hearing.
their paving cutters which will expirenj
for the new minister w-as solved a tew
weeks ago when the comfortable dwelling
of John L. Wallace at 27 Franklin street
was purchased for a Baptist parsonage.
Repairs and alterations have since been
made to the property anil it will be oc
cupied by Rev. Mr. Iehigh and his fam
ily as soon as his household goods arrive
from Oswego.
Barre Baptists are fortunate in secur
ing a minister who has had a wide ex
perience. Rev. Mr. Lehigh was born in
hrockville, Out., 44 years ago. He ob
tained his elementary
rMs. Clogston left the house at
o'clock.
r:30
RETIRING PASTOR SPEAKS.
Rev. E. F. Newell Gave Words of Coun
sel to Hedding People.
Rev. E. F. Newell, who has been trans
ferred to the New England conference,
after serving for four years as pastor
of the Hedding M. E. church in this city,
conducted the morning services at tha
education in tha oliur. h yesterday. After iriving out tha
schools of his native town and usa young ;lls.,i ni,ti,.s tlie retiring pastor said a.
man he studied for the ministry in Cana- j f,nv (.r.!s of farewell to the large on
dian schools. Seventeen years ago, or in 'gregation.
1SHII. he transferred from Ontario and) "There are manv things which I should
located in South Colton. N. . There he;,ike t() t voi; to-day," said the pas
was the missioner in charge of a Baptist ; lor .')llt'r f(.;,i that I'had better not.
church ami within a short time he wasj, d( no, fM., lnvs,,it- to-day." He wen
engaged in esf..b ishiiig a mission in , how,.ver to "explain in 'part his rea
Stark, a town adjoining South ( olton fnr ,,esiri f to ,(.atPl, itl tu
In the church at Stark he was ordained Xcw K ,al)(, (.ollfl.r,.U(.c, although he tx
a minister in 1 ! M . .since his ordination . , ,f , i..: ,i,.
he has held pastorates in Fort Covington, J '. . . . . . ' . , , . . ,
v. . ' ,. x. . , tchurch win. h, he said, had Irom the day
., iii,.ii,
Y., (lay-ton. N.
( swego, wfiere
TWO KILLED BY TIMBER.
March, lfiin. Bv the new bill the paving
cutters will receive 40 cents an hour for
day work and on piece work they will
get an increase of about 12 per cent.
The wage on piece work will be a fol
lows: 7's, tin a thound; 6s, $24 a thous
and; .Vs. $2o a thousand; l's, $23 a thous
and.
The stone cutter at the idai.t of
- i
' ii. .1 1,:... il.. .,.,..... k
1 - .1(1 1 "1 IMS Hllltni IMU'Mii nun in.- Kir.wsg
he recently closed a'. ,, , , ,, . ..,,i,,. .,,i,.
be posted and notices of the applicants pastorate of three and one-half yers ;i Xewe
ins lormer iian.-imoners auooieo a sri n i , ,,.,. . , .
,u..l,.;,.n. ,M, his ,!..,,,n,,V ., !,;..!, , i !' t talk to him too much of the man
t i, : !, it.,,, liose place he is taking; don t tell hint
Rev. Mr. Lehigh is married and has
one child, a daughter. Miss Doris Ixdiigb,
SAVED BY HIS COAT.
Death cf Woman at Adamant.
Melting Ice Causes Pile to Collapse at
Portland.
Portland. Me., ipnl 3. -Two boys were
fatally injured and another seriously
hurt at the KirhurJ-nn Ihtna A company
t ... . .. , .11- t i
tare jcs,e...y aM.-rnoon en a pue ... .. ,m.v Sr
lumlier be-i.le which they , re walking ,mploi ed shall rav t became wage."
lopjoen tit-r n:o Tli.'ill. I lie nea'l air:
Od.KMW M. xiNU (HI. aged 1.
PATHlrK Dl FF. aged 1!.
John Palmer, aged . was cut and
hrui-ed, but Will ri""iver.
It i -'ir ;i-1 t',at i. e melting iin.br
the lll!l'.T i!!-et t'e ,;ie f.i ei!! j".
M, inii. ii. h stni k 'ii the I., a I bv
Icai v i!w ! tvnUr and. nuts ,nc I a
Antoine Gregoire Was Shot While Hunt.
Ing Muskrats.
Shoreham, April 3. Antoine Gregoire
aged SO, narrowly escaped instant death i
Saturday afternoon while hunting mn-k- j
rats with his son, Antoine (iregoire, jr.,!
Booth Brothers and the Hurricane Uland 'a shotgun in the hands of the elder (ire- i
(iranite company afe on a strike. Theygoire being accidentally discharged. A
demand an incre.t-e from $.1.25 to !M "a I heavy sheepskin coat that he wore tin-j
.iv and a 44 hour week. They have biin Idoubtedly saved his life,
working 4. hours. The company have I Mr. Gregoire and his .n were in a'
agreed to the wage increase, but the stt-Mmat on the Lemon Fair river, about a
tlemetif hinges on certain clauses in the mile from the village. The shot entered
contract, one in particular, which stipti- his left wrist and came out at the el-
lates to whom the effractors shall sell bow, ; nd severe! pieci lodged in l.is
their product. The cutters also demand chest. His son managed to get nm h"i- e
that in cae the company re,-eive work land Irs. Howard id Shoreham. and IX II.
from a stile where higher wages are Martin an! P. I- Dorey of Middlehuty.
I pain, cur i-oiiii'nni o.i i riorn iney are j were summoned. .Mr. i.regoire tost nill' U
! blood, but it is thought that he will ro
of my phms; but link hands witii him in
the heartiest sympathy and love and
WAS ILL TWO YEARS.
He '
aged 13 vears. Mrs. Uhigh and daughter ; h(1l' "lnl l" ""'" "P. a '""r " 'cn s nan
are vi,iting relatives in Malone. N. Y.. ' " 'hurcli alter the heart ot t.od.
for the present, although they will arrive! Jt 's "' known whether the new pa
in Barre within a few days'. Mrs. Le-j,,,r- 1!'v- J)- '' Lip-ky, will la here to
high's parents are reident'of Brookfield. 'conduct service at the mid-week pray.r
i meeting and the services of next Sunday
or not. It lie is not here. Dr. Newell ex
pressed his willingness to oonduct tha
services if it was, the i-h of the cliunli
that he should do so. Neither is it cei
t.iin just where Dr. Newell and his fam
ily will go. but ie expects the churcii
to be in either the Sprjnglield or th.j
Mr. Oscar Burgh. .11!) North Miin street. ;i.v ,i-ni. t .f Massachusetts,
this morniii'.'. after an illnc-i of t-i' The sermun yesterday morning was de.
Mr. Ingerman-on. a native of I'verea ny J.c. erne .-mun vi naier-
liury.
"Rev. D. G. Liprky ("imn to lieddmsj
hurch highly ni-oinmended by Bislion
' Hamilton. During the past four Vear
lie has lm inniieeted with a normal
Ola Ingermanson Died This Morning
Was a Native of Sweden.
Ola lngermansoi- died at the home of
was one of the belter known:
of the Swedish colonv in Barre
Ii- sti-'ni d by his mutitrymci:.
born AttiI ls.,1. a nl a,
I,
NEAR A SETTLEMENT.
Milford, N. H, Cutters Have Been Out a
Month.
y ears.
S c! n.
iiuinbiT'
and 1, i '
Me was
therefore
He c.inie to tiie I ti t s-fciT-i .pi year
sg.) ?d se'tled in '.'tiiiey. Mass., where
be was employed a granite worker.
Afterward l e i;oi.-d to I'.irre. "o re !
i proiu-liing l.i 6.',ih lert' day.
Helen M. Bright. tdow i f SixT -rd A.
Wrigbt. ;,i at l.er i o-,.. , ,,j
Sun. lav. age I ,'i v. , rs. 1! .- fiin. :.i i.
Ob Iban. th to Ix held Tucdai ;ttrtin.
'r.iet ur-i -h'l.
I' f I .1 ! I;'.-
' I 'l ' n r.'
!
1? It '.t l--t t I 'v.
-I. H t 'k-n
o-t t ). w ! f' l.e
A.i ; rvi Is I-tig
in t is : . v.
Probate Court Proceedings.
In probate rotirt at Montpelier tod.ivJ re-i ied for tHe pa-t Is year-. Dir
the Barre Savings Bank Trust Co. M-t- tKat period he was faithful em-
Milf .rd. N. II.. April 3. A month ba. tied it aceounts tru-te of t tm.t ! I' ve ot .1. n. i.ros. Mr. Ing.-rn sii.ii
gone bv since ti e 4 i granite cutters ai d ' fun I n-td bv the w iil of Oarn- 1". Nl-rg.-d to the p, r-" nicii. t'i-
.!i.irri !i:.n struck at Milfor.L The mm J ( lark, late of pinr. Prt W. Daniel ' f Swe.i.s'i Order f f a-a and t Oi ;
are n.et.iig !it th-ee t me a w i ek. I Middles wa upr.irid iminitrt r I". He b aies t w o br-t ' er in Sw .-!, n
and it a r. j- rte i v,tnr!ar tbat a fat-'of the pstat of -l.ph ( I.lnun, late of Fnn-ral .rii.-e. are to lie beJ ,n ! ,a
,r. it ma rear with the cutter.. 1 i e j ! id. !!'-( ; and T. Far! I.r wa an- 1st home in tV B. T.-nii b'.k 1 10--
n,-n bale re-s.iel no strike jy a yet. potiite-l xe utor f t 1 e ! w ill ,f iifniy i"4 a'ternsn at 2 n'.Ul. Irl-r;.i-t
L:.e .iuAfTym.li re tlM hd Lei out. Rcrd, Ut of Wvrcstr. i!l b sude in ll-. j-e i. a.-te. j.
l-h's at (iorliam. Me., t'.e in-t.tiltioi
from w!ii. h Lev. I'i ter Black came to St,
John-bury a siioit tune ago.
, F. H. Abliott fi V ilmingloii arrived in
t'ie ,:fy tins moriiifig to make arrange-
; on id- j.r a--iiiiiir his new rx'-ition a
fs-imty agent oi the Wa-hington toiintv
Farm bi teau. the organisation of wtu.'i
was rurjd.-ti-d at a meeti-ig of ngr;cul-turi-t-
in this cty bit" in February. Mr.
!,'-tt l.m to it -xteji-niiy among
l e town f th.- iint in oi.J r to fa
n'd.arire 1 OM-elf with the farmer and
t Dstic-!i they re citipb'i u.
