; , $
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
(I
&
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
0
p, fi ; m inn
mm
Ttmnr? rrwn rrvr-ra on tbainb and nkw
PRICE TWO CENTS sTANDs-mn cent
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
- o.
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1916
7T .hffl
p m ill
. Ill-
7
8
3
.1
00 CANO'S
VILLA 10
Their Speedy Finish Will
Deserting Officials Believe Villa Has Reached Safe!
;l Hiding Place But Expect This Will Be Found-Some
Doubt Expressed As To Chief Bandit Being As Badly
Wounded As Reported-Many Wild Rumors Are Afloat
El Paso, Texas, April 3. Fears that Francisco Villa
had evaded the United States cavalry columns sweeping
Guerrero district were expressed by army men today. If
further search in the wild hiding places of that region
fails to locate him, the Americans will enter Parral. It
is "believed he may have gone here hoping to raise re
cruits among his sympathizers.
Whether Villa's wounds are as serious as Carranzista
reports would indicate was doubted here, since they ap
parently have not interferred with his escape. Con
firmation of Villa's reported murders of foreigners and
constitutionalists at Minaca and Guerrero was also
awaited.
Without direct news, the border was again a field for
wild rumors. It was stated Carranza was not cooperat
ing as he should. American officials scoff at reports of
large de facto government troop concentrations along the
expedition's communication lines. Rumors that Villistas
were gathering at Ascencion for a blow at these com
munications were also regarded groundless.
Despite official forecasts . that weeks and . perhaps
months might elapse before Villa would be captured, the
border is busy speculating on his probable fate when at
last he is forced, to surrender.
'ousul Garcia stated that if Amer
icans should take, him, Carranza would
nut claim him because' the t'nited
States would want to exact punish
ment for the murders of citizens in his
Columbus raid. But if Carranzistas
seize Villa, the de facto government
plans to make him suffer for crimes
committed before he swooped across
the border.
Carranzistas also believe that Yillr
has important information throwing
light on reported foreign interference
in Mexican affairs. They might
tore him in order to find out where
he got his funds.
Hlizzards and rains south of Casas
Grandes have hampered the manhunt.
(ne report still persisted that
has already been taken, and that
Brigadier General Pershing is keeping
the fact secret until lie has safely de
livered his prisoner at the American
expedition's headquarters.
Thinks Villa Has Sneaked.
San Antonio, Texas, April 3. "It is
my belief that Francisco Villa has slip
ped his sollnr and crawled under the
fence. ' '
This was Major Oenernl Fred Fun
stun 's terse summary of the Mexican
situation today. American forces are
believed near Chihuahua City. They
have been hampered by the failure o'f
information from Mexican sources, re
yarding Villa's whereabouts.
lioads south of Casas Grandes are re
ported improved. Five powerful tour
ing cars have established a courier
service between El Valle and the ex
treme front.
Twenty Apache 'scouts considered the
greatest trailers in the world, are going
to the front next week.
ABE MARTIN
if:
3fW
1 m
f. nicer Ning Trumbull, who recent
ly failed, announces that he'll open a
riick.-l theater an' pay dollar fer dol
lar. Mrs. Emmy Push has received a
uivenir card from her nice, who is
workin' in one o' th' best families in
1 ndynoplus. sayin' things are break in
line fer her.
EN AIDED
JTIIPPED
a
Probably Deter Others From
Scouring Whole Country.
Culumlui.f.'N. M., April 3 Spread out
in single lines, riding over the prceoi
pitious slopes and passes of the conti
nental divide, hundreds of Americaa
cavalrymen today are seeking Francisco
Villa like hunters closing in on a
wounded animal.
Every foot of the surrounding area
northeast of Guerrero railroad is being
searched by the swiftly closing ring of
khaki clad mn. Owing to the fact
that no details of the chase have been
received for nearly a week it is believed
that Villa is being run down and the
situation is so acute there is no time
for reports. Brigadier General J. J
Pershing went to take personal com-
mand ot the scouting parties. All Col-
onel Cabell, his chief of staff at Dub
lan will say is: "Pershing is still
out."
In the midst of the tenseness here,
there are five military bands, "ad
dressed up and no place to go." Siru-c
army leaders decided that soldiers
didu't need music, in the deadly busi
ness of a man hunt the bands have
contented themselves with giving con
certs here nightly.
When the supply train was starting
last night, down to the string of lights
around an improvised band stand cure
the roaring and sputtering of the mo
tor caravan. The drivers askeri for
"just one more piece to thin about
while crossing that hellish desert." .Sn
the baud complied with "America."
while every oldier in the darkness
around stood stiffly at attention.
Prepares for Prisoners.
Then the clamor of deafening ex
hausts increased, the rey line of auto
mobiles .swayed and rumbled across the
line, their headlights boring into the
night.
Promptly at 7 p. m. every dnv th"
concert begins. In silence hundreds of
troopers lounge in the 'shadows, listen
ing. It is one of the most inspiring
(Continued on Page Six.)
a-
Soldiers Stirred to Wrath
on Seeing Mutilaied Bodies
Columbus. X. M., April .'(. How the' dropped dead. Thev just stop with-Amor:.--
soldiers "swore like hell", out a sound and suddenlv drop stone
through lips caked with alkali ami im-l.lcad.
pulsively quickened their pice at the! "We passed Colonia Diaz. I be
sigot of a mutilated American body:lieve it is the prettiest place in the
was told today in the diary of Tracy I world. There was no one iu the whole
Muthewson, official photographer of; town. About sunset dough boys were
the war department. Mathewson has ; cheering. Looked up and saw' a full
retprned to t.olumbus with his plates, j moon with seven aeroplane circling
Excerpts from the diary follow: I against it like a flock of wild geese.
".March Id. We passed the body of Told the of pitible failure of wire
one poor Americin killed by Villa. The less.''
body was lying in the mes.piite. Hands j "March 20. Started another leg of
cur off and feet horribly burned. The the journey into Mexico and God
men all swore like hell when they saw 'knows what. Han into an awful wind
it, and seemed to go faster. land sand storm. Tied handkerchiefs
"The oiTIeers let the body lie, over noe, mouth. Dust awfud. Cot
thinking it would have some effect on into" food but everyone ,te it any
the men. It did. Two horses with haw."
their heads hanging stood by. They "March 21. Still snowing and sand
iirv m 1 1 ii mu pven 10 me utaa, aim
id.
nearlv starved.
"Mr lins are getting cracked. They
become roited with this alkali and
wiien I lick them sores form on my
tongue. It is painful but it is the
same with everyone."
"March l'i. Ten horses and mules
SLAUGHTER JURY
IS DISCHARGED
Orovillc, Cal., April The
jury in the Ft' v. Madison
Slaughter trial on a charge of
attacking Gertrude l.aniHoa,
aged 15 years, was discharged
at 9:30 a. m, today, having been
unable to agree.
Judge Gregory, on motion of
District Attorney Davids, im
mediately reset the ease for
trial again beginning April 11.
When court adjourned the
jury foreman exhibited a writ
ten statement declaring that a
verdict of guilty would have
been returned if the jurors had
been sure Slaughter would get
probation. The state said four
jurymen held out on that point.
When tho jurors were heing
polled I,. C. Harris, one of their
number, said n verdict might be
reached if the judge would
listen to this statement, lie
refused to do so.
I
Three Raids In Three Days,
and Killing of Civilians
Stirs England
By Wilbur S. Forrest.
fl'nitcd Press staff correspondent.)
London, April 3. Intense indignation
was manifest throughout the British
Isles today following the third Zeppelin
raid within three dnvs, and resultant.
heavy fatalities. The total casualties
of three sky attacks are expected to
reach .10(1 dead and wounded.
The public, in hotels, on the streets
and in clubs, denounced the crew of th
Zeppelin 1,-15, wrecked off Thames es
tuary, as "baby killers." People urged
that the captured Germans from that
Zeppelin be punished . with great sever
ity as an example to other raiders.
Newspapers discussed the treatment
of these captives reservedly. Public
anger is likely to cause a parliamentary
inquiry reports that the prisoners are
dining at British officers' mess, each
with a servant to attend him.
No further details of Sundny night's
raid were available early today. A
I definite list of casualties may be issued
by tac admiralty this afternoon.
Simultaneously with the hurling of
(Continued on Pag'' Two )
Stock Market Is Quiet
, Wheat Jumps Four Cents
New York, April 3. The New Vork
Evening Sun's financial review today
said:
There was no apparent change in con
ditions governing the speculative mar
ket over Sujnday and business con
tinued to be highly professional. Mex
ican news failed to support Saturday's
expectations inasmuch as Villa appears
to have eluded his pursuers temporarily
and is reported to he in no danger o'
immediate capture. This influence
caused pronounced reactions in Mex
iean petroleum and American smeltii
ami refining but other specialties
better in the initial training. As the
session progressed issues like Orucild.
steel, American locomotive, industrial
alcohol, American 'foundry and Baldwin
locomotive advanced rarjily.
There was little or no enlal'gemev'
public buying. The submarine situation
ami German successes at Verdun con
tinued as restraining influences but the
speculative sentiment continued hftpefu'
and traders pooled in making high
prices.
Bonds were fairly active and we'
maintained. Anglo-French fives reached
!Mi. the highest since January 8.
Wheat advanced over four cents on
eontinuedunfnvorable crop estimates.
terrifik "
"March 2.j. Just 21 hours after
leaving Casas Grandes nr rived Colum
bus. Wife would leave me if could
see me. Beard two weeks long, full
dirt, grit. Only one bath entire trip.
1 '11 lose about three pounds when I
bathe.
OLD QUARREL AT
HER RESULTS
MA III 11
On? Man Dangerously, and
Two Seriously Stabbed In
the Mix Up
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
ABOUT $3 LICENSE FEE
Immediate Cause of Row
Many Badly Beaten During
the "Argument"
One Turner rity councilman, I.e.
Jeans, i.j under $"1(1(1 bonds 011 a charge
of assault with a dangerous weapon,
Robert Uunsaker is in the hospital in a
critical condition from knife wounds,
James Kelly and Martin Nicely arc also
suffering severe knife cuts, and two
dozen other prominent citizens of Turn
er are nursing bruised eyes and broken
heads all for a $.'! license fee. The
riot which broltp out Saturday uighX.vs
the result of a feud that has been sim
mering for over two years and the rival
factions came fo blows at the entrance
of a tent of tho Browning Amusement
company, when the city council endeav
ored to collect, the $.1 license fee for tl
performance. When the license fee was
refused they attempted to arrest Man
ager Browning. The Turner band, un
der whose auspices the carnival was
given, came to the rescue of Browning,
reinforcements poured in from the 01
side to help the councilmen, other re
serves came up in double quick time to
ueip me uantt boys and in n row short
minutes the citizens of Turner were pro
vided with a subject for ninny a fire
side session,
Hunsaker wa-' iuu'.ly cut ainut the
stomach and abdomen with a pocket
knife in the melee, and was rushed to
the Salem hospital where, for a time it
was thought he would not survive. He
rallied, however, and it is reported to
day that the young man is holding hi
own. Kelly and Nicely were also
slashed about the uns and mid sec
tions but their wounds did not send
them to the hospitnl though it put them
out of commission for sonic time.
Long Peud Over Water.
The riot was the result of a feud ot
long standing which began when an at
tempt was made to provide a municipal
water plant for Turner. Bonds were
voted after a bitter fight and a eon
tract was later let for n plant. Tl
letting of the contract aroused anothei
bitter outburst as it was claimed to '
much money was paid for the plant. Tl
case went to the supreme court wh'
the breach was further widened win
the supreme court ruled in favor of
those who wanted a municipal water
plant, who became known as the
"-.tu" ,,,1 1 1,1 ,.,. ........ tl,,.
who opposed the plant.
Every election in Turner was char
acterized by bitter personalities after
the water fight, and even the churches
and schools felt the effect of the two
factions. Business men say their busi
ness is patronized by only one faction
if they take sides and many have en
deavored to remain "neutral" with
more or less success. The postoffice is
about the oulv neutral ground in the
city except the S. ', depot which nl
must patronize.
Band Boys Versus Official!.
Last Friday, the Turner baad opened
a street carnival to raise funds for the
band. The Browning Amusement com
pany, of Salem, was secured to provide
the amusement. Tho city council held
that the carnival was an outside attrac
tion and should pay a license fee of $.i
for each performance. The hand hoys
declared it was a local talent enterprise
aad that the proceeds were to be usci
in Turner. Browning was arrested Fri-
lay and fined V for conducting a car
nival without a license. I. L. Robert
son, lender of the band, paid the $5 fini
and then on Saturday it was again at
tempted to start the show in the even
iug shortly after 7:.'iO. The hand hoy:
were in all ot the leading roles about
the carnival, such as ticket takers,
"ballvhoos" and like jobs when the
eitv council headed ov the mavor, R
(). Thomas, attempted to arrest Brown
ing. The band flew to the rescue and
ousted the counciumert from the tent.
At the door of the tent the fracas start
ed and for a while there were rocks,
fists, clubs and feet flying in all direc
tions. Truly a lively time for Turner.
Lee Jeans Wields Knife.
I.ee Jeans, who was arrested for
wielding a knife, says that he was set
upon by half a dozen men who jumped
on him and that he simply cut his way
out. He says he did not know that he
cut Hunsaker at all and that he can as
sign no reason for it as he and Hunsak
er had always been good friends, ami
that there was no personal animosity
between them. He says he did not recog
nize Hunsaker at the time but that he
dashed madiy right and left as he
thought his life was in danger.
After the fighting stopped Home one
telephoned for Sheriff Esch after the
Turner city marshal, W. G. Smith, tie-
(Continued on Page Hii.)
WAITE NOT ARRAIGNED
New- York, April 3. Owing
to extreme weakness, Dr. Arthur
Warren Waite was hot arraign
ed today on a charge of poison
ing John Peck, his wealthy
'father-in-law.
Despite Waite's own confes
sion flint he is sane, that he
plot toil to poison his wife as
well as her parents and his
statement that he deserves to be
electrocuted, his counsel intend j
to carry out their plans which
call for a lengthy examination
of Waite by alienists.
IF
BOOST TOALL PRICES
Gringo Money Given Joyous
Welcome Prices Jumped
In Order To Get It
By H. D. Jacobs
(I'nitcd Press Staff Correspondent.)
U. S. Army Headquarters, Dublan,
Mexico, April' 3. Army men are bet
ting even money today that Francisco
Villa will he. killed or captured within
10 days. The pursuit is believed to be
reaching its climax.
Large reinforcements, including in
fantry, have m.irched to the south on
both "wings to cooperate with the cen
tral American column in a great clean
up of bandits iu the tluerrcro district.
Villa was last reported traveling by
wagon to the mountains farther south.
"Cabarets" jnd rabbit drives serve
to break the monotony of camp life
here. So does the high cost of living.
A lieutenant commanding a troop of
negro soldiers put on a "cavalry ca
baret" the other night. With the
newspaper correspondents ns his guests, I
tent Thii? rSUrW thJj
cavalry regiment sat outside and en
tertained with songs. A good part of
the camp enjoyed thq music. The of
ferings ranged from plantation melo
dies to the latest metropolitan "hits."
"A pleasant time wus had by all."
An entire regiment of infantry offi
cers iinl men engaged In one of the
rabbit drives. Armed with long sticks
and aided by a lone dog, the men form
ed a crescent shaped cordon and beat
the tall grass iu a gradually narrowing
circle. Sixteen jack rabbits nud a cot
ton tail were clubbed to deith.
Produce in this part of Mexico is
enjoving a remarkable :'bull move
ment". The advent of American sol
diers with plenty of real money and
healthy appetites has proven a bonanza
for Mormons anil Mexicans iu the vi
cinity. As the soldiers and correspondents
tre supplied mostly with bills uf large
denominations, Bpecial motor, truckn
may be needed to carry the small
change received from the produce ven
dors. The old Jiaz silver coin is
worth SO cents oa the American dol
lar but Carranza currency only about
six cents.
A couple of Chinamen have estab
lished a laundry iu camp and are get
ting rich.
The company barber charges 50
cents for a haircut and cents for
a shave. As alkali w iter is anything
but soothing to sensative skins, whisk
ers arc becoming the fashion.
Kggs normally worth 10 cents a doz
en are now 50 cents. Chickens sell at
.10 cents a pound where before there
was h irdly any market for them.
Stove wood for the chill Mexican even
ings brings $1 n load. Candles are
two for "5 cents. Heef and pork have
been boosted 100 percent.
NOT IN A HUKKY NOW
San Kraneiseo, April 3. Miss Annie
Solomon is dead today and two men
and two women injured as the result,
of a Sunday lutoniobilo accident. A
machine driven by ignntiaus Garcia hit
the Ocean Shore railroad crossing on
Juniper boulevard at such speed that
it was overturned, hurling out all itsiHritish munitions woras on tno uiver
passengers. Mrs. Irene Mahoney, Clyde, Scotland, have agreed to rc
fllngliter of a wealthy fish dealer, sus-lsumc their duties tomorrow, it wus of
tained injuries that may prove fatal, ficially tnnouiiccd today. The govern
Her back was broken and both legs 'ment believes Jhe Clyde strike definite
pidulyzed. ly settled.
Exploring Vessel Aurora
Reaches New Zealand Port
i'ort Chalmers, Xew Zealand, April
.1. Lieutenant Shackleton 's auxiliaray
exploring vessel Aurora was unchored;
here today, while its crew told of I
thrilling adventures amid the perils of
drifting ice and other hardships en-;
countered in Moss sea. . j
J. K. Sten'.iouse bceime commaadcr
the Aurora when it broke its moor-j
lugs and went adrift lust May, lea v.
ing Captain Mackintosh anil other;
meinbeis of the expedition ashore at.
Cape Crozier. With its rudder snap
ped off by ice, the Aurora drifted 1 00
miles during 10 months, firmly gripped
in a floe. The crew improvised a rud
der when their vessel was freed from1
the ice three weeks Jgo, then proceed
ed to Port Chalmrs slowly.
The Aurora sailed toward the south
pole shortly after the Kuropean war;
began, planning to meet Shackleton in,
COUNTER ATTACKS HALT
ERCE GERMAN D
Teutons Make Desperate Attacks Along Two Mile Front
force Their way Over Vaux-Douaumont Road Artillery
and Machine Gun Fire Broke and Scattered the Charging
Ranks-Red Hot Artillery Duel Foaght French Sending
Showers of Shells From Hill 304
Paris, April .'i. Hurling counter attacks, the French'
gained ground during the night in Cailette woods, south
east of Fort Douaumont, it was officially announced to
day. The French counter attacks were extremely violent,
halting an offensive of 20,000 Germans who were attempt
ing to drive southward for the purpose of surrounding
Fort Vaux.
German guns bombarded Harcourt and Esnes. Re
plying to this the French sent a storm of shells from
Hill 304:
Germans advanced along a front of nearly two miles
yesterday. Their most desperate attacks were made in
the sector between the ruins of Fort Douaumont and
Vauxbrook.
Hurling successive masses of men at the French
trenches, they forced their way across the Vaux-Douau-mont
road. Sheltered behind rising ground the Teutons
advanced into the northern fringes of Cailette wood.
Near Vaux village artillery and machine gun fire
from redoubts on the highway to the westward from
Vaux withered German mass formations and broke the:
charging ranks up into confused individuals, running for
shelter.
Torpedoed Without Warning I
London, April X Torpedoed with
out warning, the Holt liner Achilles
was sunk last Kriday, it was learned
todny. Four of the crew are believed
to have perished. The commander and
1)0 survivors were luided.
The Achilles was a 7,000 ton steam
er, engaged iu Australian trade. It
has also been reported that the Glas
gow steamer Perth was sunk and that
six persons perished. She was not
armed, it wis stated. The Perth was
a vessel of (loll toas.
Report Is Denied
London, April . German reports
that a Britisn warship of the Donegal
class had been sunk were denied today
by the admiralty.
"No report of n war vessel of tho
Donegal tvpe having been sunk reached
Americl. The Donegal is a ship of 9,
SOO tons. Possibly the naval censors
at Sayville or Tuckerton wireless sta
tions "held up the report.
Russian Transport Sunk
Constantinople, April A Russian
transport carrying troops and munitions
was sunk bv a Turkish submarine last
Thursday, it was officially announced
todiy. This transport was of 12,000
tons. Another ship of 15,000 tons was
reported torpedoed. 1
Zeppelins Bombard Docks ,
llerlin, April .1 Zeppelins have
bombarded the London docks and sev
eral military works elsewhere in Kng
land, it was officially announced this
afternoon.
Make Big Gains
llerlin, April I!. All tlie French po
sitions between llaucoiirt and Iiethin
court, northwest of Verdun, hive been
captured by the Germans, it was of
ficially announced today.
Workers return to Jobs
London. April X Workers In the
the Ross sea after crossing the polar
regions from the South American side.
As the relief tug came in sight of
the weary explorers on the little ves
sel, they flashed out a wireless nics
stge asking:
"Is all well in the old country! Wo
have had no news of the war for 17
months."
Tho New Zealand station thereupon
wirelessed latest news from the front.
While receiving this message the Au
rora's operator learned of his broth
er's death fighting the Germans.
Itearded explorers lined the Aurora's
rail, cheering continuously as the re
lief tug jppronchcd. They Huid they
hud lived on flesh of seals and pen
guins sineo their vessel hroko loose.
The Mackintosh party was reporteil
in th best of health mid supplied with
plenty of food.
VE
just mm
Dutch Minister of War Says
Country Must Be Ready to
Act Instantly
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
London, April X Tho British foreign
office informed tho I nited Press today
thut there were no foundations for
rumor that Holland's warlike prepara
tions were duo to an allied threat of
violation of Dutch neutrality.
It was denied that the summoning
of th Dutch parliament and cancella
tion of furloughs wus due to any de
cision reached by the allied military
conference recently held in Paris.
The Dutch minister of war, in an
interview with correspondents at Ams
terdam, hinted that some power hud
suggested it would he well for Holla oil
to demoboli.e.
"Holland must be ready at any min
ute to resist with the utmost vigor any
danger thnt may arise," said the war
minister. "It must be ready to use
its whole force, at a moment's notic
against violators of our neutrality.
Therefore we have decided to reject thi
suggestion that we deinobolize even the
smallest part of our araiy."
Carranza Will Have
Business Houses Sold
Mexico City, April X A umber of
business houses lire to be sold at auc
tion under orders from Vcnustiino Car
ranza because their owners, being op
posed to him, dosed them for the pur
pose of impeding restoration of nor
mal business conditions.
lly a decree effective today the au
thorities will tuke over business houses
which were closed without cause, in
ventory their goods and dispose of
them at public sale.
Interests which have profited from
tho fluctuations of Mexican currency
now realize th.it nn end has come to
that form of making money.
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
night and Tue
day fair; vari
able winds.
