The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than, to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
Vol.23. No. 40.
Time for Pec
Governmer'
to Protest to
loading bu.
20 SAILORS GIVE UP
LIVES TO MAMMON
Lake Freight-Going Ships Built,
Not for Safety, But for
Profit.
.verity sailors this week gave up
their lives to the profit mongers. The
Steamer S. R. Kirby, frail, and over­
loaded, foundered in Monday's gale,
nnd ^nly two survivors remain to tell
how the accident happened.
Twenty of the ship's crew went
idown with tl\e steamer. The surviv­
ors are Second Mate Joseph Mudray
and Otto Lindquist, stoker. Accord­
ing to Mudray, hatch No. 1 tore away
from the fastenings and in another in­
stant the ship buckled and sank im­
mediately.
•Marine men declare that the Kirby
was overloaded uiid her cargo was
not properly trimmed. It costs money
to trim ships and in this instance the
ore was permitted to remain in heaps
at each hatchway so that the ship
could not ride evenly on the sea. The
20 men died like rats in a hole. There
was not a ghost of a chance for them
to escape at any time.
Survivors Are Rare.
In most wrecks of this kind on Lake
Superior there are no survivors to
tell the tal?. II' the owners of the
ehip were obliged to pay heavy dam­
ages to the depedents of the drowned
men they would be more careful about
overloading their ships and properly
tr: aining cargoes. As a matter of
fact there is no safe freight-going
ship on Lake Superior, They axe not
built for safety. They are built for
profit. If the government require­
ments were such that the owners
were obliged to build sturdy ships and
were held responsible for the loss of
life from shi-ps sinking as the Kirby
sank, there would 1 fewer accidents
on the Great Lakes.
Opposed Siv.neu's Law.
It should not be forgotten that the
owners of the Kirby, like the owners
of other ships, are the chief opponents
of the Seamen's law. They a,re the
ones who are shouting the loudest
against what they term "the stringent
requirements of that law." The sud­
den sinking of the Kirby indicates
the Seamen's law is not yet dras­
tic enough. Some day the govern­
ment will require that ships on the
3reat Lakes be so built that they will
at least remain afloat in a storm a
sufficient time to permit the men
aboard to get off and away far enough
to prevent them from being drawn
down by the suction of the sinking
ship.
The ship owners have been bQ3£
ing the job at Washington altogether
too long. If there is anything in the
"Safety First" motto of the employ­
ers it should be tried out on the Great
Lakes before any more ship are lost.
TRADE UNIONS ASK WHY
SHOULD MOTHERS WORK?
"WORCESTER, Mass., May 11.—The
Evening Post believes this country
Should "give each boy a hard and fast
guarantee of its birthright—that of
fceing well born."
Attention is called to special rest
rooms in France for the benefit of the
working woman who is expecting a
child, and the editor says:
'The day will come when industrial
America must pay attention to the
same problem—why not begin now?"
But why should prospective moth­
ers be compelled to work, trade
unionists ask.
(By ROBERT HUNTER.)
Let him who questions the value of
unionism pause and consider for a
moment just one thing-that unionism
has accomplished.
It is well known that in the early
days of the present factory system
the day's work extended usually to
14 or 16 hours.
This long day existed for all work­
ers, the skilled and the unskilled, the
children as well as the men and
women.
The workers had not yet learned
to organize, and as individuals they
were utterly helpless to effect a
change in the hours of their labor
or in the scale of their wages.
How Do They Live?
There were, of course, no laws to
protect them, and so they were en­
tirely at the mercy of their employers.
The normal conditions that existed
in the factory system little more than
half a century ago in England and
elsewh%re throughout the world are
equaled today only in certain plague
spots.
When one reads the story of the
misery and oppression, the long hours
and low wages of those days one.
wonders how the workers managed
to live at all.
How much the condition of the
workers generally has been improved
it is by no means easy to say, but
Revenues- Have Increased Enor­
mously on Account of Long
Heavy Trains.
Titx^ CREWS PRODUCE
ROADS' BIG EARNINGS
Shorter Work Day Will Give
Minimum Relief From
Hard Conditions.
CLEVELAND, May 11.—The Rail­
road Brotherhoods are asking the
railroads to better their conditions
and grant an eight-hour day.
The men claim that the revenues
of the companies have increased enor­
mously on account of long heavy ton­
nage freight trains.
The men desire relief from the long
hours of arduous labor which have
increased greatly in recent years on
account of the heavier and longer
trains. Official reports show that
there has been an increase of 33 per
cent in the tractive power of locomo­
tives, an increase of 30 per cent in
the capacity of freight cars, an in­
crease of 29 per cent in the number
freight cars in a train, an increase
of 23 per cent in the number of loaded
cars in a train, an increase of 19 per
cent in the tons carried in the loaded
car and a total Increase of 47 per
cent in the tons carried by the aver­
age freight train.
A statement issued by the execu­
tive committee of the Association of
Western Railways, Apiul 23, 1916, de­
clares that the railroads received in
the year 1890, $1.65 per freight train
per mile and in 1914 the earnings per
freight train per mile were $3.31 or
an increase of 100 per cent over 1890.
The freight train crews are produc­
ing double the revenue for the rail­
roads according to this statement by
the roads themselves.
All this shows that the freight train
crew of the present time is moving a
far greater amount of traffic and pro­
ducing a far greater revenue for the
roads than the crew of a few years
ago. A greater amount of tonnage
movement is thus concentrated in
each of the working hours. It follows
that even with a shorter work day
of eight hours the freight train crew
•of today can move a greater amount
of tonnage than the same crew moved
,in. ten hours a decade ago,
-By increasing the tonnage moved
by the train crew from year to year,
the' railroad's increase their revenues
enormously without increasing the
expense of moving, the train.
In the testimony of Daniel Willard,
president of the B. & O. railroad be­
fore the Interstate Commerce com­
mission, he makes a statement that
the increase in the train load on the
B. & O. from 1910 to 1913 resulted in
a. saving, of $4,500,000 in train move­
ment expenses.
If only one railroad can save $4,
500,000 by increasing, the work of
their train crews, the corresponding
saving to all the roads in the United
States amount to a tremendous total.
And yet, the railway officials in­
form us that the granting of an eight
hour day would fost the railroads one
hundred million dollars. Aside from
the 'fact that this estimate is "a fig­
ure of the imagination," it is assumed
without any consideration whatever
of the economics of train operation.
Should not a part of the "saving"
to which President Willard refers, go
toward bettering the condition of the
train crews whose work makes the
"savings?"
The employes claim that by all
rules of right and justice, they are
entitled to a shorter work day, as their
work becomes more and more ard­
uous, taxing their strength and endur­
ance to the limit.
we do know that the condition of the
workers has vastly improved wher­
ever they have learned to value unity.
In those trades where the men have
known enough to fight for their rights
and to stand together there has arisen
what some scoffers like to call an
"aristocracy of labor."
And if in certain trades there are
indeed aristocrats of labor, it is
simply because they have had intel­
ligence enough to fight together, to
pay dues to one organization and to
battle always with unity and
solidarity.
And what they have done all other
workers can do.
The "aristocrats" hold no patent
on their method of action, .and by
acting in the same manner all other
toilers can win all the "aristocrats"
have won.
What Have Union Gained?
Now it is difficult to ascertain just
how much union workers have bene­
fited by higher wages.
In that matter there is always the
question as to the increased cost of
living, which makes difficult any com­
parison of wages here and abroad or
of wages now with those of 40 years
ago.
The best one can do is to compare
wages and hours today in one trade
that is organized with the wages and
hours in another trade that is un­
organized.
This has been well done by the
department of labor at Washington,
and the figures gathered by that de­
partment show beyond dispute th en­
Last week The Labor World took occasion to call
the Duluth Real Estate Exchange to account for "butt­
ing into" labor matters and attempting to prevent the
contractors of Duluth from entering Into trade agree­
ments with organized labor based upon the union shop
principle.
Taking the members of the Real Estate Exchange as
individuals most of them area mighty fine lot of fellows.
In their collective capacity and under the present ad­
ministration of the Real Estate Exchange, they are be­
coming a serious menace to the city, so much so that
the most conservative disinterested people in the city
are becoming aroused to the necessity of doing some­
thing to release Duluth from the grasp of an organiza­
tion that seems interested only in increasing real estate
values without regard to the general welfare.
Organized labor in Duluth has made its peace with
employers. The members of the Sheet Metal Workers'
and Electrical Workers' unions have returned to work
and they are working under union conditions with only
members of organized labor. Trade agreements have
not been signed, but mutual understandings exist by
which only members of organized labor are to be em
ployed in these trades. The contractors would have
signed trade agreements were it not for the fact that
the Duluth Real Estate Exchange and its allies threatened
to boycott them. They were fearful lest they might lose
profitable jobs which are frequently given out by real
estate men.
The resolution passed by the Duluth Real Estate Ex­
change has indicated to union labor the true sentiments
of this organization towards workingmen. In the coun­
cils of organized labor it has been suggested, as a re­
taliatory measure, that all workingmen be advised to.
have nothing to do in a business way with any member
of the Real Estate Exchange. Tha.t is to say that if the
Duluth Real Estate Exchange persists in its threat to
boycott contractors who give preference to union labor,
then union men and their friends will be justified in re­
fusing to negotiate loans, buy or sell land, take out fire
insurance or rent buildings from or through any person
who is a member of the Duluth Real Estate Exchange.
Now organized labor does not want to take this po*
sition unless it is driven fo it. There have been very fe*
labor boycotts in Duluth for years and it is not desirable
that we have any, but there is no boycott that would
meet with such general approval as one waged against
the members of the Duluth Real Estate Exchange.
As a matter of fact the labor unions of Duluth are
stronger today than they have been at any time in their
history* Union. la«bor conditions prevail in more work­
shops and on more jobs than immediately proceeding the
lockout of 1907. Of this there is no question. During
the recent campaign 1047 workingmen were brought
into trade unions and hundreds of applications for mem­
bership are still pending.
The people have become disgusted "with the claim
long made by the real estate men that organized tebor
is responsible for holding Duluth back. Labor does not
break towns it makes them. It is the parasites who
live from the labor of others who cause the greatest in­
jury to. any city.
A well known labor man of Irish descent once put
the question very pat at a labor meeting —"I have the
same objection to real estate men that I have to bedbugs.
I don't like the way they get their living."
Now that the Duluth Real Estate Exchange has
charged that if the union shop is again recognized,
it will be the means of checking the development of the
city, it is time to inquire as to whether or not this is
TEACHERS JOIN A. F. OP Ij.
NEW YORK, May 11.—The Teach­
ers' union has voted to affiliate to the
American Federation of Labor. It was
also voted to bar from membership
superintendents, principals and assist­
ants to principals. Teachers declare
that superintendents too often have
the view point of "officialdom" rather
than that of teachers.
ormous benefits that have come to
labor as a result of organization.
Consider for one moment the fol­
lowing facts:
We all know that the workers in
the iron and steel trade are poorly
organized, and we, find that the hours
of labor in this trade are from 60 to
72 per week.
The hot blast men in all parts of
the country work about 84 hours per
week.
On the other hand, we all know
that the stone and granite cutters are
well organized.
When we look up the figures, of
their hours we find that they work
about 48 hours per .week.
The bricklayers, the carpenters, the
hodcarriers, the painters, the paper
hangers and the plumbers are highly
organized trades, and when We in­
quire into the hours worked by these
we find that they rarely average more
than 50 hours per week.
The Power of Organization.
These workers, then, are the "aris­
tocrats" of labor simply because they
are well united in their trade, are
loyal to their organization, pay their
dues and fight a common battle.
It would be difficult to find an ar-»
gument in support of unionism so
potent as this one.
To find one set of workers like the
stone cutters working 48 hours per
week, and another set of workers in
the iron and steel trade working 84
hours per week, should alone be
enough to convince every toiler in
this wide land of the value of -union­
ism*
FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC BEFOB& AND POLITICAL PROGRESS
DTJLUTH AND SUPERIOR MAY 13, 1916,
at
too^Ifh
PRINTERS RAISE WAGES.
JERSEY CITY, N. J., May ll.—The
Typographical union has signed a five
years' agreement with the newspaper
publihers of this city. For the first
two years wages are increased from
$27 to $28.50 a week for the third
year, $29 will be paid, and beginning
the fourth year and during the life of
the contract, $30. Arbitration pro­
visions are inserted in this contract.
LABOR'S ONLY HOPE FOR INDUSTRIAL FREEDOM IS IN TRADE UNIONISM
But this is not all. The hot blast
men, who work an average of 80
hours a week, obtain only about 16
cents per hour for their labor.
The stone cutters who work on an
average of 48 hours per week, re­
ceive an average of 41 cents per hour.
In other words, the stone cutters,
working about half the time of the
hot blast men, receive at the end of a
week much larger wages.
To look at it in another way, a hot
blast man during his life sells to his
boss an amount of labor equal to that
sold by two stone cutters during their
life.
The hot blast worker gives in one
life what one stone cutter would need
two lives to give, and he gives the
labor of two lives for less money than
a stone cutter receives for the labor
of his one life.
Value of Unionity.
Think of this, and then consider
how tragic it is that one must acta-,
ally persuade workingmen to believe
in industrial unity.
It is almost impossible to believe
that any class of workers should be
blind to the value of unionism or loath
to suffer almost anything to achieve
What an astounding evidence of the
working class stupidity it would be if
the workers of this country should
without a fight .allow their unions to
be crushed and their right of organi­
zation taken, away toy the capitalist
legislatures and court*
The value of unity is so clear, the
gains for those who have united are
4^so.evidenV^uidth»Keeesrttyrf
s**, and if It is not so, as The Labor World believes, then
what li the matter with Duluth!
H. G. Larson, County Agricultural Agent, made a
very significant statement in the presence of the editor
of The Labor World this week. He said that in the agri­
cultural territory immediately adjoining Duluth there
were about the same number of children attending
school! how as attended 10 years ago, while back some
distance near the ranges they could not build school
housea fast enough to accommodate the children.
H&Utributes this condition to the fact that land for
farmtyg purposes immediately adjoining Duluth is held
a price by our real estate men, and that far­
mers cfcn not be induced to settle upon it. On the other
hand farther north where there is still cheap land, al­
though far removed from the local market, farms are
springing up as if by magic.
The other day two men came to Duluth. They left
their homes in southern Austria near the Italian frontier
yefre ago. They had been farmers in their Father
land~--dairy farmers.
Shortly after landing in this country they went to
work in the coal fields of Illinois. They struggled hard
for 10 years during which time they saved $1,000 each,
which they deposited, in the postal savings bank and
in U. S. government bonds at Livingston, Illinois.
With this amount of money as their capital they came
to Duluth for the purpose of buying land near the city
to st$rt farming in a small way. They were open and
frank in their statements to real estate men, who when
they bad learned that these men were in possession of
some real money, immediately set out to extort it from
them in their well known way by painting glorious pic­
tures of Duluth's future, and asking unreasonable prices
for Acreage within a reasonable distance from the city.
If they had paid the prices demanded for the land it
would have taken every dollar of their savings, leaving
no money to erect buildings or purchase stock.
These strangers thought the matter over for several
days and yesterday they advised us that they had con­
cluded to leave Duluth and go farther into the north
central portion of the state, where land could be pur­
chased at a cheaper 'price, and where the market was
ev^ry bit as desirable as it is in Duluth. As a result
of this avarice on the part of the real estate men Duluth
has llost at least two prospective empire builders,—
Tyrolese farmers,—the best dairymen on earth. This
'is only one in a thousand.
St is true of prospectiYd ltWaere is also true of
prospective manufacturers. The labor situation does
JJJgRT.. th«. reasonable employer of labor, but* the
ftfcfice of real estate and: like exorbitant tax-rate re­
sulting therefrom, due to the manipulation of the ileal
Estate Exchange in fixing tax values are doing more to
check the growth of Duluth than all other factors com­
bined.
What is needed in Duluth above all things is a fight­
ing organization of militant citizens, fired by a' patriotic
love for the city, who are willing to hit wrong and
wrong-doers wherever they may be found, and who will
devote the best that is within them to release the city
from the throes of the men and institutions who are
responsible for Duluth's backwardness.
Duluth must be made free. We have heard a good
deal about her enemies in St. Paul and Minneapolis,
but the real foes of the city live within her borders. They
occupy exalted positions in our social, religious and busi­
ness life. They have been so long in power that they
feel thoroughly entrenched, but the time has come, if
Duluth is to be anything but a way station, to drive them
from their ditches and compel them to be good.
WOMEN UNIONISTS WIN.
BALTIMORE, May 11.—Pad Mak­
ers' union, composed mostly of girls,
has won its strike against the Ameri­
can Coat Pad company. These work­
ers recently organized and affiliated to
the American Federation of Labor.
After suspending work for two weeks
they secured an agreement and raised
wages 15 per cent.
zation for all workers is so great that
it would seem that men, if they have
intelligence to fight for anything, they
would surely fight for this.
A few men, weak and helpless as
individuals, can by unity become a
powerful force.
Unionism is the hope, the only hope,
of the working class.
Individuals may go up and down in
our present social system, but the
workers as a whole can progress up­
ward only through the exercise of
unionism.
This 'beyond all dispute, yet few of
us have even begun to grasp the great
meaning, the value or the power of
unity.
Millions of men here in America do
not yet dream of the immense finan­
cial value to them of unionism.
Who Are The Union Men?
Less than three million men real­
ize the power of unity in the shop.
And
votv
few they are compared
with the rest of the workers in Amer­
ica! Yet look at what unity has done
for them.
They have the shortest hours, the
highest wages, the best treatment.
They have hope, confidence, self
respect.
They have to an extint emancipated
themselves from subjection to indi­
vidual oppressors, vile conditions, low
wages and long hours yet even they,
the most intelligent of the .woking
class, do not yet understand the full
power of unity.
Think what it would mean lie every
man, woman and child who ,toll in
J***,
NNE80T
fTOR}
MOIETY,
Much Paraded Foundation Device
to Evade Payment of
Taxes.
V. S. TREASURY CHEATED
OF $1,000,000 ANNUALLY
John D. Rockefeller Looks on
"Benefaction" as ,Great
Private Device.
(By Basil M. Manly.)
The Rockefeller Foundation, with
its enormous fund of more than
$100,000,000 of income-yielding se­
curities, is paraded before the world
as "the greatest benefaction in his­
tory."
Yet I charge that this great
"foundation" is only a device created
for the selfish purpose of evading
the income tax that every penny of
its $100,000,000 endowment and its
$6,600,000 income is under the abso­
lute control of John D. Rockefeller
that its activities are not limited to
"educational, religious and charitable
purposes," but, on the contrary,
thousands of dollars of its funds have
been expended for the direct benefit
of the "Rockefeller interests."
Furthermore, I charge that the
Rockefeller Foundation has "by its
activities in behalf of purely selfish
interests transgressed the clause of
the Income Tax law under which it
has claimed immunity, and now owes
the United States Treasury in taxes
and penalties more than one million
dollars.
Every fact I will cite in this or
following articles regarding this
foundation is based either on the tes­
timony of Rockefeller and the mem­
bers of his personal staff before the
United States commission on indus­
trial relations or upon the annual re­
port of the foundation.
Every event in the history of
Rockefeller's attempt to secure a
charter for the foundation coincides
with a critical date in the enactment
of the federal income tax. The first
application for a federal charter was
made almost immediately after the
submission of the income tax amend­
ment to the states for ratification.
Every effort was made to jam the
proposed bill through congress before
March 4, 1913, when it had become
certain that the- income tax would
becothe law at a special' session of
congress. The Rockefeller lobbyists
were active up to the last minute of
the session, but failed to get by the
senate. The attempt to secure a
federal charter was then precipitately
abandoned, and in absolute secrecy a
charter was rushed through the New
York state legislature of May 14,
1913, just in time to evade the in­
come tax law.
That Rockefeller regards the
foundation as one of his private in­
terests appears from his own testi­
mony before the United States com­
mission on industrial relations.
Chairman Walsh: "What connec­
tion, if any, did he (Ivy Lee, Rocke­
feller's press agent) assume with
what is known as the Rockefeller
foundation?"
John D. Rockefeller jr.: "No con­
nection, no official connection or con­
nection as a director, but our office
staff is a sort of family affair. We
talk over all kinds of matters of pri­
vate interest. We have not drawn
sharp lines between our business'and
philanthropic interests."
This, I contend, shows that the
Rockefeller Foundation was created
for the direct purpose of evading the
income tax and that it is now re­
garded by Rockefeller as one of his
private interests, to be managed in
direct connection with his corporate
business.
Think what they could do in case of
a strike or a lockout or any differ­
ence whatever with the powers that
rule this world!
If they would all unite how quickly
they could bring tyranny to its knees!
Of course, the unity must be first of
all and above all the unity of men in
the shop, the mills, the mines and the
factories.
These workers must stand by each
other, believe in each other, work
with each other and love each other
in the shop, but there must also be
unity when they go to the grocer or
the clothier.
Today union men often spend $40
a month to destroy unionism where
they give $1 a month to build up
unionism.
Union Labor's Earnings.
The union men of this country as a
body spend not less than $1,500,000,
000 a year to purchase the necessities
of life.
Every dollar of that immense sum
all over the country send their con­
tributions to support the strike.
They do all in their power to sup­
port their brother unionists when they
seem to be in trouble, but the little
strike which you aid here or there by
with the evils of your millions of dol­
lars do in supporting non-union pro­
ducts.
When a unionist spends $40 a
month buying scab products he is try­
ing with a great big hand to pull down
the unionism which his poor little dol­
lar of dues to his union is trying, to
buiMhup.:'
a a a
The working class- movement to
most effective most be conducted
»y the workers themselves in the in­
vest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called ill*
tellectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
HARVESTER TRUST HIT
HARD BY UNCLE SAM
Yucatan, a Mexican State, Start­
ed Movement to Protect
Farmers From Trust.
(By Chester M. Wright.)
Through the Federal Trade Com­
mission, the United States has gone
into the hemp distributing business. It
has taken charge of the distribution
of the remainder of this year's crop
now in this country, some 125,000
bales, that amount being in the hands
of the Comision de Reguladora of the
state of Yucatan, with distributing
headquarters in New York and New
Orleans.
This Comision Reguladora, as read­
ers of these articles will know, is the
Yucatan government commission or­
ganized to help the farmers of Yuca­
tan combat the International Har­
vester company. This company uses
70 per cent of the_crop. Sisal hemp
is Yucatan's great crop. It is used
in making binder twine.
By playing on the fears of the
American farmer, holding out high
price threats as the result of the Yu­
catan action and making all manner
of other charges, the Harvester Trust
got congress to make an investiga­
tion.
Now for years the Harvester Trust
has done all of the manipulating of
this 'crop, has jimmied the crop out
of the Yucatecos for next to nothing
and has sold it to American farmers
in the shape of twine for what it
wished. The Yucatan government
commission absolutely knocked out
the Harvester Trust control. So it
went weeping to congress.
Exposed the Trust.
The Yucatan people. siesl»!'i«r
through Dr. Victor A. Rendon, who
is in charge of the work of the Com­
ision Reguladora .in this country, ex­
posed the machinations of the trust
and told what the Yucatan people
were doing. Dr. Rendon backed the
Harvester Trust into a corner and
made it look foolish. He made the
trust Ipok -like~&t xainy day#-
Finally, after. the toVestigation^ad
gone on for several weeks, the trust
came crying around Washington
again with the moan that the Regu­
ladora was holding back on the crop
and that the American farmer
wouldn't get enough twine to tie up
this year's grain crop.
Now the Reguladora has made it
plain from the start that it did not
intend to restrict distribution, except
that it did not intend «.
vester Trust get a surplus on hand.
Every normal and legitimate demand
for. sisal would be met.
So, when this latest wail of the
(Continued on page 2.)
SCALE COMPANY SIGNS
UNION SHOP AGREEMENT
RUTHLAND, Vt., May 11.—Labor­
ers' union No. 14,992, affiliated with
the American Federation of Labor,
has signed an agreement with the
Howe Scale company, which contracts
to employ only members of that or­
ganization. A minimum rate of 22
cents and a nine-hour day is agreed to.
Overtime shall be paid for at the rate
of time and one-half. Double time
shall .be paid for work on Sunday,
New Year's, ^Washington's birthday.
Decoration day, Fourth of July, Bat­
tle of (Bennigton, Labor day, Colum­
bus day, Thanksgiving and Christ­
mas.
month to support his union he is very
proud of himself as a .good unionist.
He thinks himself a philanthropist.
I suppose he thinks that that miserable
dollar a month will build up a power*
ful trade union movement. But it
never can while he continues to put
many dollars a month into ten-cent
stores and the purchasing of the pro­
ducts of prison and scab labor which
is cutting the very ground from under
his union.
Suppose every man of the three
million trade unionists in this coun­
try considered it a crime to buy prison
products or scab labor products sup­
pose the merchants knew, that every
penny of the billion and a half dollars
spent by these trade unionists would
be spent only for union goods, what
would you see?
And the Union Label.
Every store in this broad land
patronized by workingmen would
have a big union' label over its door.
Merchants would themselves advertise
the union label, and the manufac­
turer would produce union products
and hire union labor or goTanknipt.
If union men bought right, they would
not have to strike so much.
That, brothers, is the power of unity
in the small matter of spending a
Week's wage. The buying power of
labor, If exercised in unity, would
solve many of the problems of labor:
Back of every tinion fighter, back
of every strike, back of every indus­
trial battle would be- the power of
three million men and the power of a
billion and a- half dollars spent:'eacli
r*ear. -7.V.
\i'*'
TWO GENTS.
JV.^" •I?Q
E
Government Has Taken Posses­
sion of Remainder of This
Year's Sisal Crop,
I
-4
"M*
~M\
1
a
