T-D WANT ADS
Whether to Buy, Lease or Sell,
? Real Estate Classified Advt.
Reaches an Interested Reader
1 wyH'"v ' ,w v ''" '
i
IV
WHO'S GUILTY?
Mrs. Wilson Woodrow's Movie
Serial, "PUPPETS OF FATE,"
Begins in The T -D.To-Mottow
' 1
i.i
RICHMOND, VA? SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
ivbathi/h UNSETTLED PRICE, TWO CENTS. |
BrEACH wide open
IN GLASS CONTEST
I
Question of Veracity Raised Be
tween Senator Martin and
Congressman.
FIGHT goes TO ROANOKE
Democratic Leader's Support of
James for National Commit
tee Creates Lively Stir.
I Special to The Times- DispaU h. )
WASH INGTON. .May 12.? Tlie breach
Senator Martin ami Repre
sentative Glass over the national com
mittee vacancy is now apparently be
yond repair, ami the efforts of mutual
friends to bri'ig the two men together
upon some friendly basis were prac
tically abandoned to-day.
This strained relationship followed
the Issuance this motilities by Mr. Olatis
of the first formal statement which he
made since tin contioversy between
hirntelf and the Senator beg.in. In ihiji
'Element the Congressman sharply it
iterates what his friends have been
trying for days. ttin? is. that Senator
Martin not only proffered his uncondi
tional support to Mr. Glass. but did it
voluntarily. Senator Martin, on th??
n'her hand, ha declared that he made
no unconditional promises t<> the t.'otl?
gressman.
The Glass statement was prompted
bv repeated pubh. a?ion.- in the Stat'
to the effr>-t that Senator Mat tin dis
claimed any responsibility for tlw
Glass candidacy, and that the ?'oii
grcssmsn w a :> only offered thf Sena
tor's asilt-tancc after it became evident
that nobody else sought thf place.
Moreover the statement that Senator
Martin, In any contest between liorer
A. .lames, of !>ativi!lc, and Mr. sjlass
would support .lames, incensed Mr.
?"Ilass That the Senator would do this
was announced in The Times.Dispatch
a few days ago. though at the time
the Senator had his reasons for not
wishing to m.iKe a formal (statement
von l.s iii*? i?i:i ishi\
TO M I'l'KIl I' .1 * Ml>
When show n tin <:i.i > statement
this afternoon. how?-\?i. Senator Mar
tin cant aside his r?'serv? and boldly
announced the fact that lie was f"r
James. lie stutrd that he would en
gage in no further nubile controversy
with the Congressman, but he let it hr
clearly understood by ;mj who iniuht
have doubts about hi- position that
Rorer James ? as his choice Tlic Sen
ator's statoiiMMit w:? as follows:
"I have read what purports to be
an interview to be published front Mr
Glass, in relation t<> thr content t.r.
tween himself .iihI Mi. James. I sv
no reason whntewi fot entering into
a r.ewspapci discussion of thin ni.ttt?r
My only purpos?. in taking jiny part
In connection with it was my ik irf to
have as. ntu 'i hutmotiy a> possible in
Virginia politics. s.'ontrary t o my
wishes a contest vrrv soon dev eloped.
In that contest suffice to say I am sup
porting Mr. ISorer James. ??f I'.nivllle.
for the vacancy on the National Demo
cratic Committee."
IVSfl.T TCI OI'IMUI
i >>ot i.HT-i-'oit nrrit i*.
Hepresen t a I i ve Glass wa* moved
primarily to -nake hi . statement bv the
assertion in V irginia newspapers to the
effect that s-enator Martin's promise of
support for the national committee was
jriven on condition that no opposition
developed The Congressman wants it
understood that he did not bargain for
th* support of 'be Senator or anybody
?lte, and that it would have been in
sulting to him to have been tendered
a position which nobody else wanted.
In a carefully prepared answer to these
publications, Mr. Glass said
"That is a complete misrcprcsenta*
Hon of fact. Senator Martin made no
reservation whatsoever when he volun
tarily profTered me his support for a
position for which I was not. and am
not now, a candidate in the seime that
I would ask anybody to vote for nir.
It Is Insulting to inc to suggest that
j I would quietly submit to the affront
of receiving from anybody any offer
of support for a place that nobody else
would have, and I woulil imagine that
Senator Martin will not relish being
placed in the attitude of having pro.
posed such an indignity.
"I did not ask Senator Martin's sup
port nor that of anybody else, nor shall
r do eo. His cordial support was vol
untarily tendered by Senator Martin in
most friendly fashion, without reserva
tion of any sort, as may readily be
ascertained by asking Senator Martin
himself. The only suggestion of any
reservation came from me when [
frankly said I would not desire, to
enter a contest for such a place,
whereupon Senator Martin promptly
and earnestly undertook to reassure
me on this point by saying he felt
certain 1 need apprehend no opposi
'? tion from his friends.
"1 am not concerning myself about
the position of national committeeman
from Virginia beyond being very grate
ful to the newspapers and friends who
have spoken well of me. 1 am trying
to manage a rural credits hill through
the House, which is something of
vastly greater consequences, and it is
not exactly pleasant to be. diverted by
having to contradict false statements
which have a tendency to cause fric
tion and create estrangements."
The national committee Tight has
} stirred the Virginia colony in Wash
ington as has no other political devel
opment since the Glass-Jones light
against Martin and Swanson. Senator
Martin was in conference to-day with
a. group of his friends, in this city
when the whole affair was discussed.
It was after this conference that word
iras passed along thai It was no use
longer to negotiate for an amicable
' adjustment of thn differences between
' (Continued <T:~Second I'age.)
rUtOUtfBD KARE TO ASHRVK.LK, C.
Account Southern Baptist Convention. 111.80
round trip, vU. SOUTHERN RAIf/WAT.
May U to H. Through sleeping cara leave
Richmond ? P. M? Tuesday, May 16.
I hi* nr? and unpulilUhrd photo
graph uf I-111 h li Knot ?nn nmdr n fr?v
dnj* njii. nnit >hn?? Juki Iiimv **ell the
f t-^rnnlor limit* nl the lirmrnl dny
uheii hr In to often referred in n* ?
lireald nihil candidate.
ROOT CLUIMS SUPPORT
QF G. 0. P. IN VIRGINIA
Sc\ru Oilier Suuiliern Stales. Ho
Kxpprls, Will Support Mini at
Chicago Convention
<?i;t < ti.m. ki:i'okts
Formal Statement (ii\on Out \,y
l-ormer New Vork Senator's Pub
licity Ktircuu Sees (Gratifying Drift
to Itepuhlicuns in Dixie.
I Spr ci ? 1 to The Times-1 >i - pa t ? h I
UASI tl/l'-VN. I' <M;,v l ? The
IJiIhj i: ...i Vi evidential Publicity Ku
i'Smj. i?t t* .-statement to-night, claims
Hi. i tlx former New York s^naior will
i c?? ? -. \ o tlii ?. ot< s uf Virginia. North
< .1 rullll.l. 'I fhlir.-rrr, .M ISM SM ppi. t.OlJIil.
ana. Heorgia. Arkansas and h'lortda on
the ball'it ^t the i'ht>ago n..,iijtul
c i:m ent imii This claim. it stated. i
!?.? <-'1 upon ? OiilMlrniial report. the
f.'i.ot ina i .< l't - hiiM' rerc i veil from the
Southern St at
sot t It (lot.IIS || \ |. \ M i:
or i'o\\ r,n, s-i \ ii;mi:\t s\t>
1 " R"Ot .- atement IV clearly a hl?l
for Southern support. It pays it: part:
\ ? ? rofu! perusal of the list of delc
y.it.-v f?>. tit* I ;<? imj M iia n Na t ioiial Ooil
?IHIOO til.'i tn. ?? i ^ in Chicago .lime T.
o far. .i ifiil: thr fart that the South
"ill Iim vi tli. .-trougest delegation at
aii\ l.cpuhlican National Convention in
tli. ??i -1 r.r ? of ih. party. The list
? how l 'hat l.i H ; i i . doctors. business
men, manufacturers and farmers ;ir?
f ntong those who will represent the
South at the ronv cntion With (lie
or more votes the South w ill . on
triliiite i ??><?? ?, ? i(,o tioinin.i tjr>n. it will
hold th.* I>a l.i nee of power tn the con
vention. I'arty managers are grati
fied with tn... character of the dele
Kates. and maintain that it inlicates a
drift to the Republican party from a
substantial element in the South. Par
ticularly tins is true of Virginia. North
' arolin.i. Alabama, tleorgia and Louisi
ana.
1 AHOI, IV\ M.\ \ 1 l-'AiTl Hi;ils
i.KA mm; to r? o. i\
"In North Carolina there is a cood
chance, for the election of three mem
bers of the House and a fichling chance
for the. electoral vote. The manufac
turers of the State are strongly leaning
to the Kepi Mican party. Mr. Root,
when he was Secretary of War. recom
mended liberal river and harbor im
provements tjr the South, reali/.ins the
great future of tlie South. When he
was Senator. he co-operated with
Southern Senators to secure legisla
tion that was beneficial to that sec
tion."
HAMPTON EXERCISES END
tlRiver* of .\N*nrinflon Ite-Mlevit il. mid
Allen WnnliIngtou (lioxen tuni
iniinilont of School.
N WW PORT NKWS, VA? M;iv If!.
Anniversary exerdtes of the Hampton
Normal School, closed to-day with the.
election of oflicois of the National
Hampton Association ami the presenta
tion ol the graduates to uicinb'-rs of
t'ne boarr) of trustees. Omcers of the
National Hampton Association, all of
whom were re-elected, follow: Alex
ander R. Trowbridge r'lushintr, .V. Y?
president; llollis R, Krivsdl. Hampton.
Va.. Itrst vice-president: t'harles .l!
Hatfield, Philadelphia, second vice
presidfnt: Harold Peabodv, Roston. see
reta ry-troarurer: Sidney, 1. >'iissull,
Hampton, executive secretary.
Allen Washington was elected com
mandant of the school. He succeeds
Major U 11. Moton, new head of Tuske
gec Institution.
Speeches were made during the davY.
xesj-ion by oflicers of the school and
mem be tfi of the graduating diss.
?
WILSON ON WEEK-END TRIP
PreM,|rn< nttd Wife l.eave for Crulir
IIomii I'oi ii nine nttd < licNnpenke
"nj on I lie Mayflower.
f Special to The Tiinns-Di.spatch I
W ASI11 N'l iTO.V, May 12.?The Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson left this evening
on the Mayflower for a week-end cruise
down the Potomac River and Chesa
peake Ray. They will return either
Sunday night or early Monday morning.
The Mayflower will be in touch with
the White House by wireletja, and the
President will he. kept Informed of de
velopments of Importance. In interna
tional affairs.
Documentary Evidcncc Admitted
Results in Three Victories
.or British Owners.
LAWYERS IN LIVELY TILTS
Letter of Mr. Lansing. Made Pub
lic. Holds Case Is One to Be
Decided by Courts.
NORFOl.K, VA., May r_\?Academic
spa rrltiK over the admissibililj of doc
umentary evidence. resulting in throe
victories for the British owners of the
Appam. the testimony of the master.
first officer an<l chief enqineer of the
vessel and the State I ?epartmetit's com
j munication of Mar'li t" Count von
! Bcrnstorfr. which was made public by
Kludge Waddill oxer the protest by
I counsel for the German government,
! featured the lirst day of the hearing
' of tin libels of tlf prize ship Appam
I and her rxreo in the United States l?is
' trict t'ourt to-day before Judge Ed
i mund Waddill.
The first and signal point scored by
the British libelants was the admir-s-ion
| of a communication from Secretary of
State l.a nsinc declarine that the Ap
pam ia not protected from libel pro
ceedings by the provisions of the Prus
sian treaty of 17P3. The second point
.-?cored wax the admission of evidcin c,
? over the German < ounsel"s prote t. of
?sections 110 and 111 of the German
1 prize code, upholding the itiadmissibil
'? Ity of prizes of war into neutral ports.
! and the third, the admission as cm
deuce, also objected to. of the .ertifi
j .ate of registry of the Appam. .showing
t British ownership
! Two points that stood out were the
evidence of the three witnesses for the
libelant. who testified to positive
statements that bombs were placed
aboard the Appam by the German prize
1 crew with the threat that any attempt
at a mutiny would result in their ex
plosion. and the statement of Genre:
AfihhotMier. chief engineer of the \ cs
?? i. in ihe effect that he had soon
' boxes of cold specie removed from the
I vessel after her capture and placed on
one <>f .the Moewe's boats.
HOI.II* MATT KM IS OM-; TO
nr. iii;t ioi:i> in courts
i
| Secretary l.ansing's communication,
contrary to what had been believed,
disclosed that the State I'epartment
considered the case one to l>e decided
by the court.-, on the legal points in
volved. and was written in answer to
a note Ifoni Count \oti Bernstorff. pro
1 testing against the matter coming he -
; fore the courts, and nskinz that the
At mrney-General require the district
: attornev to lake such steps as might
Pc ne, essary to secuie. the prompt
dismissal of the libel.
The pro* isions of the I'm .wii-Anicr
ii an treat v. over which the contest
.irises, has to do with pri/.* s accom
panied b\ vessels of war, and. accord
ing to Mr. l.ansing's communication. it
i.- pointed out that the treaty grants
asylum to such vessels of war, but
doe; not hold out protection to spoils
of war deposited in an American port.
The Appam* came in'o port as a mer
chant prize, unaccompanied by any
merchant vessel. but had a German
1 prize crew aboard at the time
K >1. Hushes, of counsel for the
respondent. objected vigorously to ad
mitting Mr. Lansing's communication,
claiming that it was a "bregch of
faith" to make public diplomatic cor
respondence.
j Frederic It. Coudert. of counsel for
the libelant.-;, replied with the conten
tion that the note was a formal ruling,
i and should be put on record as a tnat
! trr of evidence.
j The motion for continuance, made at
the opening of the trial by Uobert M.
Hughes, on the grounds that I/ieuten
j ant Berg had not had sufficient time to
properly prepare his case, was over
' ruled. The motion of Floyd Hughes,
' for the libelants, thai the libels of the
I Appam and her cargo be taken lip to
igeihcr was granted by agreement.
Chief officer William l?ennil/., Chief
| Engineer George I'. Ashbonner and
j Master G. Harrison, all of the Appam,
told of the capture of the British liner
j and of how they were kept in subjec
tion by the placing of bombs on the
'bridge, in the engine and chart rooms.
! Thej declared lieutenant Berg told
them that on sighting a British war
i ship ten minutes would be civ en in
'which to take to the little boats, as lie.
had orders to sink the Appam rather
t >? a ii submit to recapture.
Chief Engineer Ashbonner testified
positively that specie or bullion, in a
! number of boxes, was taken off the
j Appam on Saturday night, following
the capture of the liner on Friday,
i They were loaded on a small boat from
I the Moewc.
I Aim ITS V ESS 1 11. HAH CAItlllKt)
tiiooi's veah iiefohe t'Ai'rimi
| Captain Harrison stated, as did the
I other two witnesses, that the Appam
was not connected with the British ad
miralty at the time of her capture. He
admitted that the vessel had carried
troops twelve months prior to the cap
ture. .1. II. Marsden. of Newport News,
j will arrive in the morning and will be
! put on the stand for the libelants.
The action of the libelants in in
i trotiueing additional documentary evi
! deuce, at the conclusion of the examl
j nation of witnesses, met with strcn
1 uoijs objections from the respondent.
'Certain portions of the British ship
ping net, under the seal of Great Brit
.am. weic submitted and admitted by
I he court The admission of the ec".
jtificatc of the registry of the. Appam
|was objected to by counsel for the
respondent on the ground that it was
not proof of ownership. The certili
I eate was admitted.
The principal light. Iiov ever, wnn
j around the citations from the German
i (Continued on Sccotid f'ag?\ >
<;OINf? TO MKMlMitlAM ItKl' NION
SOUTIIKRN RAII.WA Y O.'Ciolul Route.
Faro, round trip. May 13 to IV. Stop
nvern. Arrnnno Pullman reaorvauonH now.
Phone Madison 272.
'opy right 101 ??, l>v L* m I < rwood Undo
wood.
(?nvrrnnr .InmrK IIVrnuioii, ol
Te\n*. hn? l**ur<l h Hlalrmml In Hhlrh
he declared that 110^ In Ihr llmr for
Inter* cntlon In Mrilen In rmlHre order
In thai rounlrr, If It Inkri ten or Hfly
j rn m.
iimcoi'F"
PROGRESSIVE MEETING
Twenty-|-'our Drlcgiitcs to National
Gathering Arc SelcclrtJ at
Ituanokc Convention.
instiuctkd i*ort Kot>si;\ui/r
Colonel Is in Speech by
Stale Chairman I'ercy S. Stephen
son, uf Norfolk, \\lio Calls llim a
True .\u\er*"dt).
no a ipm&j-!* va. i j. ? ?i?*. 11. <n
of * t wenty-PoUt Ocl'gutes. with li:? If :i
> ot' f.ich, U"1 t>t? ?*ii<j?uio convention on
June. in? rtructeU for Theodore fioof ?
veil. h:i?^ i. K'vrrc criticism I ? y ; pea k"i\*
? <( tic allec^d "maladministration ol
the rii'iniMTatic party.'" featured to
?lay's Stat'1 Protrressivc party conven
lion here. A resolution severely ar
ratgnlitg Democratic activities in Vir
sinia whs adopted uuttliiinoiislv.
S?;'le Chairman T'crcy S. Stephenson
.of Norfolk. opened the convention :i I
noon to-d:iy. tlcorsc Wise, of N?w
port News, was made temporary chair
man, and 1.. S. Thomas. of Martinsville
| was eho*en pcriuaiient chairman.
' In a speech ciilici/.ing ihe nepiibli
jean and democratic parlies. Mr,
, Stephenson said: "Theodore Roosevelt
stands out a> a true American, a mar
among men. It has not heon necessarv
i to repeal legislation enacte?l during
his incumbency of seven years and a
| half. During his administration not
; an American rille was ft red: and with
'in that time he triumphed by diplomacy
in liandlmc successfully seven difliculi
(international situations, lie is a mar
i of peace, who not only advocates a
I square deal for every man. hut natiotia
'and international justice as well."
"Mr. Wil on." said Mr, Wise, "re
minds in* of the Puke of York, whe
| marched lus men tip the hill and hack
asjHiti; and the Secretary of the Nav>
has a policy which is: 'Nobody shall
know what I'm going to do next.'"
Following 'he adoption of resolution-'
of respect to the memory of Thomas
bee Moore, former State chairman it
Virginia, the convention adjourned.
The following delegates and alt fi
liates to the national convention were
elected: At large?Percy S. Stephen
son. Second District: f.. S. Thoniav
Fifth District: K. .1. McCullough. Tenth
District; .John II. Catron. Ninth Di
trict.
First District?George A. Walker -in<;
tJeoree N. Wise, delegates: llenrj
Warden and J. W. Hester. allTi t "
Secoiol District ? I'aul C. Ti tigien am)
John IS. Doles. delegates: George ''
Tonkin and Ocorjro l{. ISarton. alter
iia tcs.
Third District?Jeff 11. Powell and '
II. Russell. delegates: John I. Grubbs
and George t;. Rourki, alternates.
Fourth District ?George nichaidson
and Wise Worrell, delegates: II. K
i Ferguson and George IS. Jones, alter
nates.
Fifth District?F. Footc and <' I'.
Rarksdale, delegates: William M l'c>
ton ami C. W. Jotiea. alternates.
Sixth District?It. It. Fairfax ami
Van Nees Meermance. delcgaiex; w. II
Masincup and J. I'l. Roehm, alternates
Seventh District? W. S? French and
I?. 1*. Murphy, delegates; William I!
Dutrow and J. W. I.oveiira vc. altci
r.Hte.s.
F.ighth District ? s. I'. Scott, dele
gate: no alternate.
Ninth District?George W P.lankon
ship and .lohn I.. Ross, delegates: Ma
rian Smith and II T. Kinstein. alter
nates.
Tenth District --Met "lung Fatten, t'
N. C'ohron and II rl l-laden. delegates:
Charles t'lirry, AD in t'ohron ami ?.?
i.?. Masters, alteru;
NO TRACE OF AVIATORS
IntrallRiilInn l"nll? to .\mrrrliiln finite
of Wrecking of tlig 11 * dro
neroplniir.
"WASHINGTON. May 1.' - An all-day
inx estimation l?v Captain Thoinaa S.
Baldwin, commander of the Atlantic
Coast Aviation Station, at Newport
News, a tit! Victor Vernon, a station
aviator, failed to ascertain the cause
of the wrecking of the big hydro
aeroplane 11-7, on its return trip from
Washington to Newport News, Va.
No trace of the. two missing occu
pants of the machine has been found.
They arc believed to have been
drowned when the machine plunged
1 Into the Potomac Iiiver.
TWO IRISH LEADERS
ARE PUT 10 DEATH
James Connolly and John Mc
Dcrmott Arc Shot for Com
plicity in Rebellion.
NO FURTHER EXECUTIONS
| Premier Asquith's Visit to JDub
lin Has Effect of Assuaging
! Political Passions.
i
i DL'LSI.IN. May 1C (via London). -
(.funics f'onnolly and John McDermott
j wore "-hoi this morninsr fur complicity
| in the rebellion.
j The official announcement regarding
! tlic execution:- follows:
"The trial "f t\v<> prominent leaders
of tin* rebellion whose names were
| appended to th(< proclamation issued
I by the so-called provisional covern
Imcnt, namely, .lainer^ Connolly anil
John Mrl'ernmtt, look place on May
.! !>. The sentence of death \va:? re
j turned in each rase. ?nil the sentences
r were carried oijt this morninc, after
! confirmation by the general coin
? j maiiding-in-cliicf."
i .lames Connolly. styled by his asso
ciates commandant-general of the
Irish repuhlican army, was one of tlic
jse\en signers of the pro-'lama t ion
issued by the insurgents a t luiblin at
, the outbreak of the revolt
Connolly was injured during the
I fighting. and was taken prisoner. Mis
i thigh hone wa? broken by a bullet. It
i ?as announced in l.ondon last week
that. l;c could not be placed on trial
at the time on account <.f i,i.< wounded
i condition.
1 ( tl> MM.1.1 ACT I > K AS
SOt IAI.INT l\ AMi;it|( A
At the session of the House of Coiii
tnons on Thursday vehement protests
ucre made by Irish members against
the execution of the rebel leaders, and
an attempt was made to obtain in un
derstanding that there would he no
more of them. Premier .\si|tiith said
that two other persons were under
sentence of death, and that ho did not
see his ivay clear to interfere with
Ma jor-i Joneral Maxwell, the com
inaiider in Ireland, and *say that the
extreme penalty should not he in
flicted The Premier tlmujrlit it un
just that preferential treatment should
be aecorded in the case of men of equal
tru ilt.
I'onnoliy lived for several years in
New York. where he wan artive ;ui a
Socialist and writer on labor topics.
He returned to Ireland about five years
ajfo to assist in organizing the Irish
l.abor party lie was about tiftv years
old.
John Mc|?crniott was known as one
of the most brilliant orators in Ireland
i and was reported to he one of the
original organizers of the Irish \olun
| leers in November, I01S. in Dublin.
At the outbreak- of the war McDer
i mott. conipwrative|\ a ycunsr man, vva
oditor if th- Irt^n 1- re; h m, a I oil,
lin journal. ardently opposed *.o re
cruiting ainonc th.- Irish for 'he lirit
ish army. |-v?r ?hi-i the piper v a one
of those suppressed for its attitude on
the subject
i \o Mom; r.\i;< t tiuns
Mtr. miw' \ VTini'vrno
l.uM?o\. May 1 ? Premier Asquith's
' sudden resolve to i.o tr? luiblin. which
; was hailed by Iii.- supporters as a
stroke of senilis, has had the effect of
' assuasitis political passions. I'arlia
' merit ilocs not nice; on Fridays, and the
*1 fact that there was no session to-day
{helped to loins about a day of calm.
1 in strange contrast to yesterday's sen
' sat ions
The only new fact concerning tlie
| situation in Ireland is that two other
I leaders in the rein llion. whose execu
tion was delayed by Premier Asquith's
underslanding that there would be no
further executions until after Parlia
ment had debated John Dillon's meas
ure. have l.een out to death. These'
i m ei> .lames Connolly, one of the sign
ers of the proclamation of the Irish
republic aid John McPcriuotl. It
. eems extremely probable that there1
; will now be no more executions.
Sotne regret was expressed to-day !
over the selection of Mr. Dillon to!
'move the resolution in the House of!
i'ominous concerning the executions.
Main of the strongest supporters of
Ireland'" cause advanced the belief1
th' B it would have been better, had:
some b -s emotional Tri: ii member l.ccn
?elected for that duly. The feeling
: prevails tlir.t now everything possible'
ought lo be doll..: to avoid inflaming;
, public ntiment.
pnr.ss r.\piii:ssi;s ur.t.nr.T
o\i;?i ?? w <? i:.\i:ci thia>
Much regret * is expressed by iutlueu- '
: t tii I Liberal inwspapers that the ~ov
i*rninent faiIcil to atop the executions '
of Connolly an I McDerinott. The!
Manchester Cuardian and the Nation j
|contended that a commutation of these !
sentences would have been not only i
clemency, hut policy.
Premier A.squith appears lo have!
spent thi day in Imbliti seeing officials
thert and acquainting himscir person-'
ally with the si I nation; and it is pr - .
; : umcd that it may he two or thicci
days before any radical decisions are
adopted, although it is rceogni/cd on
all sides that there is urgent need to.
re-establish an effective civil govern- i
nient in Ireland.
Much hope is expressed that some-j
thing will conic of th,.. proposal rap
prochcmcul between .lulin Pedmomi
and Sir Kdward Carson.
Mrs, C'linnibcrlalri Here.
| [Special to The Times-Dispatch.J
Nr.W lOKK, May IV.?Mrs. Joseph
! Chamberlain, w idow of the famous
j Mritish statcsiiiau, arrived here to-day
1 on the White Star liner Adriatic, after
j ail absence from her native hind of
seventeen years. Slio in on her way
to visit her mother. Mro. William C
llndicott, in Eioatuii.
Urges Girls to Prepare
i "opy right, I !? I ?>, l>v L'ndorvv ood <v Under
vv ood.
Mian Kathleen Hurkr. nhn linn
I ?rr? ril on *r?prnl of the I'.uropean
buttle f ron In. ndrfrpn.iril u ^inhering
of ^ oil tm HOinrn of (hp Attention A>?o
??Inlion In \rw York, nnd dwelt upon
tlir piirl I Hnl nomrn pln.v In llir nllr< I
ntion of KiifVorlng nnd the liorror of
the Hiir nou tuini; on.
LAUNCH SHARP ATTACK "
AGAINST BRITISH LINE
(j>r in.-?iis at Verdun Switch From
Assault Against Frrnch to
Kngli.sh Trenches.
CLAIM GAIN OF .100 VAHDS
Italians Put Down Two Austrian At
tempts Against. Captured Positions
ni Ml. Cukla?Russians Progress
Against Turks on Persian Border.
their attack from Vcr
tlie Krenelt, the Germans
n era in a. sharp offensive
British line around llul
Switi hi up
dun against
have begun
again.st ihe
Inch.
Preceding their movements with the
usual heavy bombardments, the Ger
mans launched an yifa.nl.ry,. s^tt^fck
I against the British lines in the region
? of Vermelles. and were successful in
? -apt urine llrsl-line trenches over a
1 front of about BOO yards. The Brit
; i.-'h admit the loss of the position,
I but say that part of them were re
taken in a counterattack.
Berlin declares that iu tiieir defense
of the trenches, and especially later in
the counterattacks, the British suffered
heavy casualties and, in addition, lost
men taken prisoner and several ma
| chine guns capturcd.
I III'.MH IIKt APTI 111; POINTS
ok a wtai.k ai.om; >tr.i sr.
Around Verdun the Krench on the
lett bank of the Metise have, recap
tured points of vantage previously
taken from them southeast, of Ilau
court by the Ccrmans Bombardments
are again taUiim place in the vicinity
of l.e Mort llomuie and t'uinicrcs and
against the French first and second
line trenches on the right hank of the
Metise, between the 11a udreiiiont wood
and Vauv A 'icrnian attack south
east of l"'ot t lioiiauiiioiit was repulsed.
considerable uifantrv lighting. which
as vet liar, been without result, is hi
progress oil the i?vinsk and .lacobstadt
sectors oi the Kussian front. I'etro
grad reports that tJerinan attacks at
several points here and farther south
have been repulsed.
I'I'A lil \ A N IHCAT UOAA \
TWO A I.' STIl IA > ATTACK S
In the Aust ro-1ta linn theater intense
nrtillerv actions are ensuing in the
t'ol-di-l.ana zone, and the Italians have
put down two Austrian attempts at
a11a< K' against captured positions on
,M??uiii i 'uk la
IVtmgrad report; further progress
for the l.ussians (iglit'ug against the
Turks near I li ?? I'ersian t'roiitii'f. with
Bagdad as tlieli objective Here the
Turks a 11 ein pled to take the often, ivc.
hut I'etrograd sav; the movement was
resumed. Karthcr north, near Asch
kala. which is situated tiftv miles 'vest
nt Kr/.erum. th?' Itussians claim to have
made frfrthcr progress westward
Tilts however. is at variaiwi.' with the
claims of t'oust a lit inopb-. which sa>:?
the llussians. driven oi't of their posi
tions at Mount Iv'ope, west of Kr.'.eriiin.
are making every effort to maintain
themselves in new positions
ATTK.MI'T* !?'It I STIIATHII It \
ritr.M it \it*i*ii.i.i:it\ kiiti:
I'AKtS. May 1 "1.?Two attempt:: l>y
the tierniaiis last uiuht to recapture
positions f?u the western slope of
I ?ead Man Hill, taken by the French
on May 10, were frustrated by the
Krnneli artillery lire. Artillery is
active about the Avocourl wood, and
tiic liomba rduient hi the I mijaumonl
\'ail.\ sc. tlou con t in lie.,. ;
tin' ntiicial War otllce repo
da; .
The t i' einc n l follow : ?
"Un the left bank of tin
dun front i there
aclivit.v from tin
i-ording t'
I 11 ? ? J to
Mcum? tVcr
illicit so a it i lie rv
elor of the vv ood
of Avoioijrl to l>e.i'l Man Hill. The
? Germans vainly attempted to dislodge
us during Ho- night from the positions
vvc captured May |a oi. il;e western
.-lope of the lull Two .lit > e v c iii
tacks v\ ere repulsed bv otn lire
'?Mi the right bank the hombardnumt
in the region of l>ouaun?ont-Vaux con
tinued.
"Then was relative ealnt, on the rest
of the front. '
i)i:ct.aim:s i\a to aaaii i.iks in
POSSK.SNIOA OK ItHir.A VAI.I.liY
PA II IS. May I?Senator Uerenffer.
writing tn to-dnj s Matin, says that
"tho key to the war lies In the poa
iCouiinucd on Second" Page.)
.J:. -iVii'iA-.. A:. ? 1..
Failure of El Paso Con
ference Does Not Change
Washington's Attitude.
INCREASED CONCERN IS
NOT SHOWN BY OFFICIALS
? President Wilson and Secretary
Leave Capital to Spend
Week-End Vacation
! AWAIT KKI'OUT FIIO.H SCOTT
| National Guard and Other Regulars
lieing Mobilized to Strengthen
Ilordcr Patrol.
WASHINGTON. May I'-Fallure- of
'he military conference at El Paso to
j i each a definite agreement has brought
| mo rhanpc in ,l,o policy toward Mexico
I" 0 Washington administration.
''resideiii Wilson and his Cabinet to
y r^c'vcd General Scott's report,
announcing that tlio questions at issue
jhad hee.i referred back by the con
; ferecs to their respective ;overnincntB'
or diplomatic diucussion. renter it
! *as officially r,tate,| thal t|,0 sltuaUon
""s unchanged.
iHi'r'.T" W<<m n0 evif,cnce anions admin
lr?i ? on,,-,i,,s of ereatly increased
oiitern o\ cr the events at the border
and 11, Mexico. President Wilson left
his afternoon for a week-end trip
doty, the ?'heaapeake Bay on the naval
took Scrrstary Bakor
U-ok a train for Atlantic City and
unU*/1 Sunday.^ *?' "*??
| General Scott's report of his rtnal
has not been made public,
j but there are indications that ho
! arr)vod something- in the nature of.
a gentlemen's understanding" with
j be Mexican Minister of War. Possi
bly this had no more definite form
than a statement by each aide of what
it proposed to do in checking bandit
? aids along the border.
: I'l.A.VS TO STHR\GTHE!Y
FORCES GOING AHEAD
clem" h"* "?W ?rders from th? Presi
dent. it was made plain at the War
;r;;rent u,at Generai
- pedition would remain In Mexico!
? leanulnlc. mobilization .of. thft. Na
tional Guard and other regulars to
? lengthen the border patrol continues.
. hould raiding bo renewed, additional"
ttoops w,|| be called out for border
. . ' Aml wherever the bandits leave
, ?< hot trail the army will not hesitate
j to pursue them into Mexico.
I An indication of the attitude of som*
, members of Congress toward the sug
I gestion of General Carrnnza that the
I American expedition be recalled came
, " the senate to-day when Senator
! ,s saM 1,0 believed tho majority
j "over would vote for withdrawal until
1 be murderers of Americans had been
| '"".shod. The Illinois Senator spoke
" irply to a suggestion by Sonator
1,-7,1' , nothing: adequate waa
I being done to safeguard the soldiers
""" i" M ex ico. senator Lewis de
clared every possible precaution wan
vlftho 7 U>' "'C War DeP?rlment.
' r hCer,;':,,-v Lansing nor Eliseo
j. ' ' arranza's ambassador
i 1? , e* 100k any step during tho
toward renewing diplomatic dis
, ? ussion of the points that were
' ",,cl" "l? during the military con
di'-7tp?' a"d| was to in
Jx: ;z:'c*,ro tn prp- -
w 111; 111;\ 1101 "i's of \ It.(.a
mattich ok speculation1
While General l'er*hm* ?ow is con
I lentraiiuK his forces along a short
I llM0' 11 wn? stated positively that.
1 MelvTf' i hUny 'N"Uth a8ai" ""modi-'
I ' . '/ 1'? received definite informa
"^'Ha or any considerable
j number of his band had gathered at
a poii, win,,n striking range. It war, ,
?j d to-dav he wnull, l.OIIti|1U0 to dQ
"s ,OMK as be had a hot trail to
di'r*'!'* and at the bor
" 1 not k.inw Vi||?:, whereabouts.
, l'y t'" whether lie still is alive. It
.Vs ti,"1,:"ion' 11 was indicated.
?? "-II as the increasing danger of
jH^bos uith the .Mexican population as
<atteicd chase moved southward,
"bi.-h le.l Concral Kun;<ton to suggest
.1 I 0>ll>|l(.;<lt lull ..f the (l oops
TI.e a?l\ .1 need post of the expe
1 v'" ??ir'" ,,C r0iii"" -Sau Aiitonlo,
\Vh,i' HO,,th ?f t,,c b<""rter.
I 11 r "y General
1. hint tor concentration 011 I1I3
i r.Vvj rup,,,> l,n" have ,,ot bee"
disclosed. it understood that hia
"<? *? disposed ao a5 to*
I the .-cctio.i whero t-andits have
been most active.
H';.* ?as made necessary, it, part,
trana
j . sul,P the quartermaster's
! .'o'too |,.?,,t estimates this traffic at
p guilds ;i *1;,>. exclusive of for
Uv%Ju, 'rr r,'," iS b0,n? shipped V
lro " ' ' nH'ixhants in ^
li w.m made knoun to-day that n?
? ?o*??tlon8 tor tii- use of the railroads
v'-en! p ,f"?1 rough Special
;, t a? Mexico City. with.
. ?' 1 awaiting the resumption of ncgo
i for a general understanding
with t.eiKMal C.trr,iH7.a.
J MO\ |M, 11 1111 -1;x
FIIOM .MiUTII \ M> SOITH
'? ht Aineruan - ipplj lines are aerl?
I ouslj hampered i,v bad weather vifij
jorous measures .,1 ?bt li^e to be taken
j to seft that the inn. ;tl the front ^ ?{
Properly cai.d to.-, and this quearion
! of the railways may present later the
; most serious aspect of the relation*
between the Unit, J .-fates and tho d? ,
facto tfovcrnmi lit
Mo\iMnents of 1 'a r run ha troops to- -
ward tho 1:15 Beiu. region were as.
bumcd here to bo <2lr*e.tcd toward an
effort tc round up iht Glenn
