Stilt.
THE WEATHER FORECAST. 1
Fair to-day and probably to-morrow;
northwest to northeast winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 67 : lowest, 52.
Detail! weather, mall and marine reports on pj,?o H
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII, NO. 256.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 191G. Copyrlofif,19ie.6j the Hun Printing and Publishing Association.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
145,000 READY
TO MARCH FOR
PREPAREDNESS
To-da.v's Non-partisan Dem
onstration Will JJe 12
J lours in Passing.
20.000 W031FX WILL
SWELL THE LOXU LINE
Ton Thousand Guardsmen
Also to. loin Business and
Trade Uodies.
Thu Ljs.csi mnn In the world yostet-,
day wan Chatles Hitchcock Shcr-1
Jill, grand marsual of the citizens' non-:
partisan preparedness parade, which Is
dielgncd to show the whole U. P. A. to
day huw earnestly the solid workers nml '
business ntul patriotic women of New
York city want real jircpatcdness.
Komo ono man must ulwujs bhouldcr)
the responsibility, the labor and tho
worrj' when vast numbers of citizens
nro to bo nimiiioneil suddenly from tho '
looseness nml undlncliillM; of private at- i
Iain, and arc to be arrajed with ma
ehtnclike iirdoi for the public sued. Col. ,
Mu-rrlll tackled the Job nix weeks ago
and has been sleeping In catnaps ever I
ncc. No doubt Papa Joffre over In
France lias had .1 day oft In those six
weeks now mid then. Probably Von'
li.ndetiburg on the Herman eastern front
has had at lean urie good night's sleep.
Hut not blicrnll.
Day and night, hu has slaved as pre
paredness chi.f of staff, solving thou
oands of Tple.lni; problems, writing
thousand of letters, answering thou
sands jf telephone cults, pleading, urgu
Int;. isrsu.iding, lebuning cranks, sunth.
ll.g tho suspicious, all fur tho iovu of tho
. aikse. Last htgnt ho drew a bieatli of
id f Kviry detail of the paiadc had
Wen arranged, every imaginable dltti
cj.ty anticipated, as nearly as human
thougnt and iiiki unity and putleiico
ioii.il iU It The te-sult Is In th lap of
tu. g ills.
'I evolve Honrs f MnrcliliiH.
To-do fiom y;50 A. M. until 9:30
I'. .I 14.'. eyu men and women will
ih.i i 'n ,wo i Holding 'irceii and Fit-
l I i i. -n utile: back audi
tit it
.mate to the doubt-
.1 .1 III- .m.l the iiusi-fuo!e.
... the bc-t tM t cvCrcm-hlp In New
Y.-k ho n..t ....H..t(,,.. ,.. and
11 1
j)i fti nf all of the trade. and protes-
uit-n h and pimr. famous and ob-
" '".' .'II iwiu, linn a ll.nj-
-m. secuiay and pioperlty I MJHh.'SfV
There Mil have been In all the ru- 'lll:ir rmy nlil). ,,,. b f.xpa j f
t.ons history never nnythlns approach- tlmil of t approximately 220.00U
ini: th magn.tude and the slKnlllcaiice ' mon Thfl nate volunteer army plan
..I to-da s patriotic demonstration. A j nan been discarded. In its place b.n
few le.-s than PS.uoo actually marched ' i,een biibftltuted a section giving the
in tho sound money parado of 1S0G. A ,rfect of law to the I'Uttsburg plan of
few more than 'Jl.000 kejit stcji to the I Instruction.
bandH In tho business men's parade in The Lodge amendment providing that
October, 1D0S. Thvbu have been the ' thos.i who undergo such Instruction shall
topnotchers of parade achievement. To-1 have all expenses paid by the Govern
days preparcdnos ii.ir.uk' will exceed , ment has been agned to. The report
them by 50,000 In numbers alone. i nuthnrlz'S the construction of a nitrate
Many persons havo doubted that so 'plant along the lines of the amendment
many aa H.'i.OOO will actually organize , adopted by the House. It provides nn
and cover tho route. Col. Sherrlll said ; appropriation of 20,0(',000 for thM
jestcrday that thero Is absolutely no , plant and leaves the selection of a rite
reason to 1ms sceptical. Tho whole thing j to the President.
iiLO been worked out with mathematical j
precision. Mobilization has been on tho BAD ROADS FOR DEFENCE.
Hcale and of the thoroughness of mill-1
tary mobilization In Germany. Division !rliallir Mlprniii Suugr.t. nn OU.
commanders have reported to a man ex-
BCtly how many marchers they can de- trnplvr I nireinrednri..
pend on. The total comes to 115,000, Wasiiivcton. May 12. Senator Sher
Of courso the chances of rain ( which1 mnn f Illinois, one of the candldntei
Ve now practically removed from the tw the Hepubllcan nomination for 1'resl
calculations, since to-day almost cr- ,rnt. warned the Seriate to-day not to
tainiy win De an eunsnmo unu uiuu
ky) and tome slips and desertions
which never can be discounted In ad
vance may reduco slightly tho number
of the marchers. Hut Sherrlll btands
by his estimate of 145,000.
Will Ilrmleivoita by Districts.
The whole body of marchtrs will not
cover all of the dlstanco from Howling
Green to Fifth avenue and Fifty-nlnth
lrent. That wniil.l -ht linmntilv in- i
possible. It would moan utter disor
ganization. Hut from Howling Green
northward at six different neighbor
hoods detachments from trades or pro
fessions will Insert themselves into tho
line, on tho tick of the clock.
Tim sldo streets touching Hroadway
from Howling Green to Fulton street
will bo ti.e rendezvous and startli-s
V .. , , 1,1 I
for tho Wall Mteet A-ssocia Ion,
.avvyerH Assoclat on. tho Jewel lers ,
point
tho I
H'.", C p1,'!''i""n,.-,hK ,ranfcf";r,ilt!"nl
r".:ihrR or" I
g'inlzatlon living Its business life In that
district wlli rendezvous there, and be
i idy to fall inlii thn rolurnn at its ap
pointed Mieet and minute, lU'lnlh which
ai exactly given In the general orders
will h Tm: Sun piints this morning.
Streets In the neighborhood of the.!
C.ly Hall will bo tho assembling places '
f ir the saddlery and harnej-s people, rim
Furniture Asoelatlon, tho Physicians
.i' I .Suigcons Association among nu
n ous trades and professions. The
kIukii hood of Washington Squat i-,
i neighborhood of I'nlon S'liiaie, tho
mis touching Fifth avenue from
tt t tu Twentieth and from Nun
leemh to Twenty-second will bu the
eh. r general rendezvous.
The .v sions which start from Howl
i -! .is en or tiieieabniit will march tho
1 . '! -tai' , t Fvrtlctl. street. The
i icrgyrniii, ai-'-einbllng In Seventeenth!
('net arid dispersing In Fifty-seventh
sl'iet, will ' ivij tlie shortest dlstaneo to
ur liui the inllie parade, except '
r i ue iiiv.mw. which do not begin to
n.ii h until ii.ghtfall, tho National
iii.iul, whoso 1 (moo will not start nn
1 l S '. M., and tho women's assoola
i ns, whn h do not fail Into line until
t: 3d I' M . will be i-eeii along Fifth
avenue fruiu Twenty-third street to
'iUl -seventh street,
Co I u hi ii .Mines nt flillll.
There will Is' every opportunity, how
ever to uliM'i'Vo tho scope and tho Im
mensity of the demonstration, even bj1
tiuiMi persons who urn not abln to find
mom at the reviewing stand In Madison
Square or from vaiitago places along
Fifth avenue. The line of march was
Conflnietd on Ltut Pop
Nutshell Fact About
To-day'a Great Parade
Oram! Marshal Charles It. Hherrlll
estimates that 145,000 persons will
march In tho preparedness parade.
Of this number 20,000 will bo women.
Tho sixty-four divisions from all
trades nnd profession, will bo re
viewed at Fifth avenue and Twenty
sixth street by Mayor MI'ahel, Major
Gen. Wood and Hear Admiral Usher.
The official weather forecast for
the day Is "fall."
The head of the parade stnrtH nt
3:30 A. M. from the City Hall and
should reach tho reviewing stand
about 10:30. The olllclal stand seats
2.S0O persons.
The line of march Is Howling Gleen
to Park How, to Centre street, to
l.afayetto street, to Fourth street, to
Fifth avenue, to Fifty-ninth street.
Men's civilian divisions start from
!'!30 A. M. to r. Mil P. M. : women's
from :10 1', M. to 7:30 1'. M. ; the
National Guard from k :30 P. M. to
10:30 1'. M.
Moie than 2n0" bands will furnish
the music for the paraders.
The parade will be non-partisan
and in no sense critical of anybody or
anything merely a demonstration
for constructive preparedness.
Its cost will be about $100,001,
raised largely by voluntary subscrip
tion In the trades and professions.
Chief Inspector Schmlttberger, com
manding a special force of 2, 123 men,
will police the line of march. Am
bulances and patrol wagons will be
stationed at Intervals along tho route.
Tratllc will be permitted to cross
the lino of march subject to the Judg
ment of the police. The public will
not be allowed to use Thirty-seventh.
Thirty-eighth, Thirty-ninth, Fortieth.
Fifty-fourth, Flfty-Ilfth. Fifty-sixth
and Fifty-seventh streets east and
west of Fifth avenue.
CONFEREES AGREE ON
AN ARMY OF 175,000
Volunteer Plnn Discorded, hut
.$20,000,000 Nitrate Plant
Is Approved.
Wasiiinoton. May 12 The cinfiiees
on the Administration army reorganlza
tlon bill have practically reached an
agreement. IJy mutual concession the
t eprcsetit.itl vc of the two chambers
have arrived at a point at which only
minor details In the new army plan re
main to be ngtced on.
Indications are that a repent will be
made to both rhainbeis early next week
ar.d that It will be nitllied without much
delay. The conference report as It now
"' .''. .'',.,,', I
?,V""! T ' f " LP' '."
"" of '"!"'" f ,"."o.0rt "1""', "Present-
IliK a cumpriiiiiistf between Die ordinal
i Senate v'an of 25O.HU0 and the House
proposal of 1 13,0i'0.
The conferees hav
Tl... ,nfnr. h.iv. mtnnl.,1 lh. ....n.
.,ahM tie good roads hill If the present
state of unprepareuness is alhered to.
"If we are to continue In the state
of unpreparedness It might be better to
leave the highways In the present de
plorable, state so that when the Invading
foe lands on our coast and stnrts for
the Interior he will encounter such high,
ways that before he penetrates very far
',"'.7'. ""umo
exhausted that we can easily despatch
mm wiwi u iiuo, Mini me nen.tiar.
PLAN SHACKLETON'S RELIEF.
Ilrltlah Committee Xnnirri In Ad
vise (iovrrnment.
Speeial (able Dnpntch to Tint Sox,
London, May 12. The Official Press
Hureau announced to-day that a con
; yr ' h , , appointed to advise tl
m!(.rm,1PIlt ,.ol)0,.rnlng tho relief of S
com-
the
Sir
Kr. e Hl ackleton's expedition. The
nr.tmert.nK was held at the Admiralty
Among tho members of the commit
tee nro Admiral Sir I'wls Henumont,
chairman; Major Leonard Darwin. Sir
Douglas Mawson nnd Dr. W. H. Hruce.
It was unofficially stated that the re-
lief expedition would start In Septeni-
'
r-
REVOLUTION IN LISBON.
1'iirtugiiese Troopii Mutiny nnd
Horn Arseiml, I Itrport.
HiniUN, via London. tyy 12. A rev
olutlon has broken out In Llnbon, ac
cording to a despatch from Granada.
According to reports, troops have
mutinied and the arsenals have been
burned to tho ground.
DUTCH SAILORS MUTINY.
-
llll, lleertlim In lliitnvla. ArreXed
anil I'linlsheil.
AMSTi'iiPANr, May 12. Despatches
from Halavhi, .lava, to tho Trtrpraaf
stato that mutiny has broken out on
three Dutch battleships at Java,
According to tho deipatches, 300 sail
ors left the ships and paraded through
Weltevreden, near Hatavln. Sixty of
tho mutineers were raptured and pun.
Ishcd by the soldiers of the garrison.
ItrlchktafcT llrjrrt Tohneeo Tax,
Sptcinl Cable Uttiiateh lo Tim Hik
Amhtkbiiam, via Ixiiidon, May 12,
Tho llelchstaic rejected yesterday the
Government' tohncco tax proposaU,
which the Socialist opposed from tho
OUUMt -
lMTIT.fi J&flTttttNflW
mijjuu u uiuu iw 11
HELD BY RECEIVERS
Action Tnkcn to Prevent Suits
(trowing Out of Coinpli
cntcd Accounts.
IMiOHIiKM OF $8,000,000
J. II. Martindale nnd .1. H.
Poor Chosen to Strnijrliten
Affairs of Coinpnny.
! Much regret was mnnlfcMed In flnan
j clal and commercial circles last evening
, over tho necessity for the appointment
I of Joseph H. Martindale. president of
tho Chemical National Hank, nnd .1.
Harper Poor of Amory, Hrownc & Co.
as receivers of the white goods Jobbing
and Importing houso of Mills & Glbb.
The surprise of the banking nnd dry
goods Interests was naturally heightened
by thn fact that the outconio follows so
hard upon the announcement made yes
terday of the appointment of a strong
committee of creditors, which, It wan
thought, might be nble to conserve tho
assets and llquldato the corporation.
It leaked out In dry goods circles
early yesterday morning, however, that
a preliminary Investigation mado by
certified accountants on behalf of tho
committee disclosed a highly complicated
condition of affairs In the books nnd
accounts of Mills & Glbb, which seemed
I to Indicate thai tho meagre surplus of
I $31,118 reported by President W. T.
i Hv.ius was not only completely wiped
1 out but that tho corporation In addl-1
tlon was Indebted upon merchandise ami
ilnauclal accounts to nn amount equal
to If not In excess of $3.00l'.000.
Step to Avoid Litigation.
Fpon the disclosure of the confued
nnd complicated ne ounts of the cor
poration, the committee felt that to
conserve the Interests of all parties a
receivership would be desirable. More
over. In addition to obtaining a proper
understanding of the concern's books,
certain points have been raised regard
ing th merchandise Inventories, In
volving possibly questions of ownership, j
whli h are of such a perplexing character
that the work of adjusting the matti r ,
can best be performed under the direct
supervision of receivers, thus nvoldlng
the possibility of vexatious litigation.
Naturally In the case Involving the
troubles of a house which has en
Jovul the very highest credit for years
and whosf accounts are found to be
complicated In many ways there were
many rumors In the dry goods district
concerning the true situation. One fea-j
ture bears directly upon the recent)
statement made by the concern to the
I dealers in commercial paper won used
the show.ng In selling the obligation to
banks and Investor throughout the
icuntiy. As Indicated In TUB SfN
'yesterday, tho statement prepared by!
.Mr. Ilvnti bearing the dato of .lanu-1
I nrv 1 last differs materially from that
,i file In the credit department of lead-(
lug banks.
The latter shows a total of outstand-.
Ing accounts and bills receivable of
j 1.2I6,5!H. while the latter statement, ls-
sued at a later date, claims outstanding
ai mints and bills receivable as ji.sj.i,
17", a difference of no less than $.",75,
571. and as against a surplus of $31,1 IS
in one statement the surplus is entered
as $72n,i30 in the other, a ilifferenco of
no less than $W,M2. Of cours.- a cer
tain latitude Is always permitted to a
romnivtclal house In making tip Its
statements which are not sworn to and
natural differences of opinion frequently
occui regarding admitted assets and the
I like, but as It stands the showing in this
case leads to the opinion that the Items
of bills receivable and surplus have been
swollen unduly. ,
Another llueMlon IINruMrd, I
Another question arises In connection
leitlt llw. .lluiMWltlnn nf the S 1 .000. mill of
I S per cent, debenture lioud.s. About
I J.'iOO.OOO of these bonds were reported tu
I havo been retired. Those debentures
I never appeared In thu statements made'
by President Hvans, a future which ha"
been accounted for by the fact that the
concern did not capitalize good will and
utilized the debelltmcM as a virtual off
set to its good will. For such a con-!
cerri as Mills & Glbb In the height of '
Iti prospeiliy $1,000,000 would not be
an exorbitant charge for the Intangible
asset of good will, .
Hut among tho dry goods men thn
rumor has gained currency that deben-1
turcs to the amount of about $5uu.000 1
were not In reality retired, but were i
transferred from capital account to the
account of outstanding bills receivable '
and that by this bookkeeping opei.-itlnii 1
the company was ablu to report a retlie-
ment which had riot occurred and in ad
dition to show the large Item of $720,000 I
surplus which lisures In tho statement
furnished by President Kvans to the
commercial paper dealers. It Is saldi
that Mr. Kvans has personally Indorsed
all outstanding paper.
Much satisfaction was expressed by
banking and dry goods men last evening
in the appointment of Messrs. Martin
dale und Poor as receivers for the eon
ecru. Mr. Martini. ilu's prominence as
president of the Chemical National Hank
gives assurance that the Interests of the
house will lo conserved, und ho Is thu
better lilted for the task In consequence
of his recent experiences as tho receiver
of the II. H. (iatlln Company, which
was successfully started upon a new
career largely as a result of Mr. Mar
tlndale's personal efforts efforts, by the
way, which seriously Impaired his
health.
J. Harper Poor Is one of the most
prominent of tho younger dry goods
commission merchants of tho city. The
llrm of which he Is a member, Arnory,
Hrowue & Co., originally a Hoston houbf,
rooks among tho leaders of the great dry
grods commission firms of tho country.
Mr. Poor Is a son of tho late Kdward H.
Poor, who at tho tlmo of his death was
president of the National Park Hank and
beioro that a member of tho old dry
goods commission houso of Denny, Poor
H Co., which retired fiom business many
en is ago.
Tho receivers were appointed by Judge
Julius M. .Mayer of the Unlti-I States
District Court at 6 o'clock In the evening
In tho Judge's chambers after imperii
had been prepared in a friendly equity
suit to forestall the possible tiling of
cieilllorn' actions which would tend to
Impair tho assets of tho while goods
house, Kach of tho receivers was placed
under bonds of .r,0.0u0, Tho two were
authorized to continue the business.
Doth arc members of the committee, of
bankers and merchants which wns ap
pointed to conserve the assets of the
llrm siivcral davs ago,
Tho plaintiff In tho friendly nctlon In
equity is Henry W. Chapman, a creditor
of Mills & Glbb, who holds a claim of
IMOCTtor WW lent
GERMANY MUST
SHOW GOOD FAITH
Wilson Will Refuse to Put
Pressure on Britnin for
Kaiser's Snke.
NO EFFORT TO PLACATE.
Uncompromising Attitude to
Re Adopted Until President
Is Satisfied.
Wasiunctov, May 12. It Is becom
ing more and more apparent that Presi
dent Wilson Is determined to maintain
an uncompromising attitude toward Gcr- j
many until he Is fully satisfied that the '
Imperial Government has actually re
moved the submarlno menace to non
combatants from the high eeas.
Ilerlln's view that the submarine lsue
between the two Governments Is settled
Is not shared by the President or Secre
tary Lansing. The prlco which Ger
many must pay before reaching nn ami
cable understanding with the t'nlted
States Is a strict and continuing obser
vance of Its pledgo to effect a chanito In
Its present method of submarine war
fare. t'ntll there has been a sufficient lapse
of time to demonstrate that Germany
has really effected this pledge the atti
tude of the United States will remain
about as It has been for tho :ist month
toward the Imperial Government.
No effort Is, apparently, going to be
made to placate the German Govern
ment or to reestablish a mutual feeling
of confidence and good w.ll. This com- '
promising policy was adopted by Mr I
Hryan after the Lnsitanla disaster, it Is
explained, and Its result proved far fiom
iiatlsfactory Scrretnr l-inslng then- ,
fore Is resolved to havo Germans prove!
as well as declare Its good faith before
he changes hi.s present policy.
Policy of i:nfnrrliiK Hrircl. I
This policy. It is admitted, Is not cal- '
ciliated to please Germany, but Stire
tary Imsng is understood to bellevn It ,
may force respect for tho demands of
the United States. For example, the
St He Department will make no move
whatever to assist German) In obtain
ing peace with her enemies, and wl.l not
argue German)' protests against the,
blockade to Great llrltaln. i
Hvery shred of evidence Indicating i
that Germany has not t-crupulously lived j
up to her pledge on the submarine qiies-1
tton will be sifted and examined by the
United States. Secretary Ionising In-!
structed Ambassador Gerard to-day to I
report on the form of thu punishment
which the German Government declared
It had administered to the submarine 1
commander who attacked the channel '
packet Sussex. j
Getmatiy's iffort to make the United
States obtain an abandonment of the i
HrltMl blockade hah had the fleet of
checking repr""nt itloii" wbdli the
United States otherwise would pinbably
have mule to Great P.rltain on qiest:ons '
pertaining to the blockade, i
"When am you going to answer the
last Hrltlsh note on the blockade que. I
tlonV" Secretary Lansing was asked to- '
da) I
"In view of the appirent condition I
contained In tho Get man note." he re-i
plied, "it Is very illllii-ult to jiroceed at 1
the pre-eni time with representation to1
KiiKland "
t Dili lain nt the State Department point
out that German) 's ipp.innt thri.it to J
revive the former methods of submarine,
warfare unless the United States sue- '
i-eul in obtaining cone, sons from
Great Hutain which would Uuult Gir
many will doubtless mean that this Gov
ert.ment cannot .iress the qiKstluns at
if.su" with Hrwland for Home t.me to I
come, Secretary Lansing eertalnl) has i
no intention of pressing tlum now.
I.ark of rnlth liidlcnteil.
There nre further clear Indications
that the United Slates Is unwilling to
place fiillh In Germany's promise tn
abandon Illegal submarine warfare until 1
time has proved the value of this '
promise.
Secretary Lansing, for Instance, has 1
declared that he would accept the settle- !
ment of the Lusltanla can- propomi
!.) Gi rmany as soon ns he was s:itllled I
with German) 's promises for the fu
ture, Ho has not accepted this settle
ment and has no Intention of doing so
In the Immediate future, although Ger
man olllclals heir have been expecting'
nun to no so without delay after the last
German note.
ntilclals here say that one reat-on
uhlch may have something to do with
the present temper of the Administra
tion Is the fact that tho reports coma
In almost dally of continued suhiimrlno
titlarks on merchantmen which bear
nil tho earmarks of the old methods.
American Consul. General Skinner nt
London reported to-day that the Hrllhsh
steamer Dolcolth has been sunk and
that one of tho crew Is missing.
The rteamer Maude was sunk by a
German submarine on May 4. Six shots
were llred at the ship, the first being
fired before the crew had tlmo to leave.
The Norwegian Consul at Hull has
Informed Mr. Skinner that a Norwegian
lighter. Superb. w;ih set ntlro and Mink
by a German submarlno on May 3. Tim
crew- was saved.
BERLIN WILL NOT REPLY.
German Offlclnln Will Confer, llovv.
ever, With Gernril.
IiNliov, May 12. Despatches from
Iterlln by way of Copenhagen slate that
thn Tapcblatt says that Germany will
not reply to tho latest American note.
German olllclals, however, will confer
with Ambassador Gerard on the sub
ject. Petrograd papers continue to rnmmenl
on tho German American situation
Several mention thnt tho sentiment of
America Is overwhelmingly on the sldn
of thn Allies. Thn American feeling s
declared to be tho best antidote for the
Insidious German propaganda of the
last two years.
BULGARS TO SAL0NICA FRONT.
illl.OOO Withdrawn From Itnmilir
ami Ilobriidjn Hector.
Special Cable I)npatch ro Tin? Sr.v
LoNI-on, May 12. The Odessa cor
respondent of the Dally Mall telegraphs:
"A largo movement of llulgirl.in
troops Ih In progress as: tho result uf
the situation on the Salonlca front, Hill
gurla has withdrawn 36.000 troops from
the numanlan Danube frontier and the
Dobrudja sector. A large number of
German and Austrian troops, It Is
learned, also ia moving In tho direction
tfgaloalt."- ,
LAST 2 CHIEFS OF
IRISH REVOLT SHOT
Connolly nnd McDermott,
Signers of Proclnnintion of
Tiidependence, Executed.
ASQI'TTlf ORDERS A If ALT
Condemns Denth of Editor
Skeffhurton Flood of
Protests deceived.
Sptei'il Cable Peipatch foTnr. Srv
Liniis,) May 12. James Connolly,
who was the "commander In chief" of
the rebel army In the recent outbreak In
Dublin, and John Mcliermott, another
lender, were shot this morning. They
were convicted lat Tuc'day by a court
martial of high treason.
Doth were signatories to the "Proc
lamation of the republic of Ireland,"
Issued on the day of the outbreak. All
seven of the rign.ltorles have now paid
the penalty of death.
Peter H. Pc.irse, "provisional Presi
dent"; Thomas J. Clarke and Thomas
MacDonagh were executed on the morn
ing of May 2. Josoph Pfunkett was shot
on May 5. Tho seventh elgnniory to
the document was H. Kent.
Further Trials Poatponril.
Simultaneously with the news of put
ting to deatli of the two men came the
report from Dublin that Premier A
quith. upon arriving In Ireland to take
iharge of the situation, ordered the
pos-poneriierit of further courts-martial
pending the outcome of his Investiga
tion of thu slate of affairs.
After a conference with Gen Sir John
M ixwell and other military authorities
the Premier conferred Willi the civil
authoiltles of Dublin.
One of the first steps taken by Mr.
Asqu th upon his arrival In t'. o Irish
capital was to urge upon the commander
of the Hiltish forces a speedy Investl
f itlon into the externum of IMItor Skef
tlngtoti of the r(.ii (iti.v ii. Skefllngton
was shot without a trial and his case
has done mtn-h to kindle anew the
smouldering discontent In huge sec
Huns, not only in Ireland but through
out the United Kingdom.
"lie report to-dav bad It that the of
tliei n sp.m-ible foi Skefllnglon's execu
tion is now being cuuit-martlalied. It
is said tins officer ordered tho shoot
ing of the editor without, obtaining the
sanction of the Military authorities.
Premier Asqulth Is evpecled to remain
In Ireland tn formulate plans for the
future government, to be submitted to
the consideration of party leaders.
Opinions in Dublin dilfer greatly on
the outlook. Mr. A-qulth's presence
Is viewed In some quirters as a hope
ful sigtl as !ndbal:ng that the with,
draw il of martial law Is Imminent, while
il-. wh ie the gloomiest view Is taken,
.mil it is pn ill ted that the afteimath
f the rel.ell.on will be as serious as the
I'liibr . ,ts If.
The leiness community of Dublin
,r ti rf-il 1 st martial liw he withdrawn
und u.s.sls that its maititeti li e Is Hoc.
c it) fur a cmi. del aide peilod of tunc.
This u the v.ew which is expressed in
res.il.it ions of the Peek ltn.nd and Mer
ciiiti As"!1 U. on, and Is wldily lied
It Is stated, but cannot be continued,
that Lord MacDoncll Is ccsiperatiig with
the liovernmi nt and acting virluallv as
the Uhief Sciretary. Four or the men
a! rest.! jesterd.iy at Limerick. Includ
ing Toole, a city offi lal, were released
i loss. p in political quarters is to t'lv
i rfeet tli.it Sir Kdward Carson and Jnl.n
l:. d-nond may go to Dublin to confer
wttli Premier Asqtilth. The report could
not be comlrmi d Neither has left Lou
don. The political situation l grave nnd
Is accentuated by John Dillon's speech
In the llo'ist) of Commons )eslerday on
the execution of IMItor Skeiflngtori.
Flood of Protests.
The Premier's office is being flooded
with till graphic appeals for a icss.i
lion of the Government's "i xtcrmlnatlon
P llcy" against the rebel leaders. Thise
appeals have taken on the appearance
of an organized protest movement, car
ried on both In Ulster and Nationalist
couiii.es. Many of t. e communication
warn the Government that Its iiercilesi
procedure against the Sinn Fein chief.
could servo omy one purpose, that o!
sowing the seeds ot a new rebellion
Mr. Asqul'h has expressed himself as
r.inilemnliig the execution of Skeftlngtun,
but made It clear that he entirel) ap
pi oved of thu shooting of the fourteen
libel leaders.
All Kngland looks with anxiety to the
Premier to hnd a way In appease the
bitter hostility prevailing In wido circles
of tho Irish population. There Is much
speculation as to whether Mr. At-qtitth
will succeed ill this illllicult task. Tho
most popular theory is that tho Im
mediate cstablii htm nt of provisional
home rule would go a long say toward
restoring normal eondltlons and unani
mous o)alty In Ireland.
Coiiiioll) Wounded In Hlot,
The brief respite which was granted
Connolly, who was one of the first rebel
leadeis lo bo arrested, le believed to
have been caused by tho fact that ho
was seriously wounded in tho Dublin
riot. Dubllji ib'spatchiss said he was
shot In tho leg. Until thl.s morning be
was unable to face a tiring squad. The
sentences of the two men were approved
by Gen. Maxwell, commander of the
Government forces In Ireland,
Connolly was the son of poor parents
and as a boy went to wotk In a store
In Liverpool. Them he nbotbei so
cialistic doctrlniH and later he returned
to 1 1 eland as a Socialist "missionary,"
becoming one of the chief lleiilenanls
of Jim Larl.ln, the strike organizer who
Is now in the United Slnles, Connolly
wnH llu author of a book, "Labor In
Irish History" He spent soiuu time in
America. Itetiirnlng to Ireland he be
cainn oigaiilzer of the Irish Trans-port
Workcm Union in Heiiast and was
elected member of thn Dublin City Conn
cil, He served a ti rm ill Jail for
refusing to llnd sureties to keep the
peace.
PROTEST IN HOUSE.
Hep, II) it's Ill-solution l'. prcssra
Horror nt Irish llxcciit Ions.
Wahhinoton, May 12. An Indirect
pioteM by tho Ilnuso ngalnot tho treat
merit of Irish revolutionists by thn Gov
ernment of Great Hrllalti other than
as prlsoneis of war was proposed to
day in tho form of a lesolutlon Intro
duced by llepresentatlvo Dyer of Mis
souri. Thu lesolutlon proposes that "the
Continued on Second foe.
mexican bandits raid
MINING CAMP IN ARIZONA
Americans Driven Out and Escape in Automobiles
United States Soldiers Sent to Scene, but
the Villistas Had Fled.
Tivso.v, Ariz., May 12. Polnrln,
mining camp seven mllr below
iiochlel, was raided by Mexican
bandltf, who drove the Americans out,
It Is miorted, The residents) are nald
to have escaped In automobiles to
Xogalcs.
A telephone message received here
from Washington Camp, near the
j border, this nftemoon stated thut
American soldiers had crossed tho lino
, and visited Polaris camp, hut found
thu bandits had lied.
MEXICANS IN JUAREZ
HITTER OVER OUTCOME
j Trent Americana Coolly After Fall
I lire of the- Conference.
Ut. Paso, May 12. Gen. Obregon left
j shortly before daylight to-day fur the
I south In his private train and Gen. Scott
departed this afternoon for Washington.
I Ocn. Funston went to San Antonio lo
' direct tho mobilization of the militia.
I Gen. Scott and Juan Amador, Sub-
Secretary of Foreign Affairs for Mexico,
conferred this morning. IJoth denied
that any ultimatum was delivered dur
ing tho conferences. Amador expressed
I the very positive belief that thero would
bo no trouble between tho United States
and Mexico.
I Nevertheless there Is a feeling in
Juarez among I'arranza olllclala that is
not at all friendly toward Americans.
Itesetitment ngatust Americans became
more marked to-day than it lias ever
been known. Carranza olllclals did not
I even treat newsiiapt r correspondents
'courteously, where formerly they have
i been accustomed lo Joko with them and
i re-ciive them cordially.
j The fact that Gen. Funston called In
Iseverai well known doctors .ni! con
ferred with them regarding hospital ac
commodations was also the subject of
I much speculation here.
Gen. Funston vlsttc-d the hospital at
Fort Hllss, where be went among the
' sick and wounded men from Mexico and
Glenn Springs und talked with th'-ni all.
Ho distributed cigarettes and "Jollied"
the men as lie heard the- stories of their
experiences.
Gen. Funston admitted that Gen.
' Pershing, the American commander In
1 Mexico, Is Mill bnty redistributing his
fotres in Mexico and drawing them back
, toward the American line from the
south.
I "There will be no war between Mexico
and tbu United States If vvu can pro
j vcul it," said Ju.m Amador.
( Trooiis to Ciifiperiite.
"It) Gen. (Ibregon's orders," he con
tinued. 'V.irranza troons are now mov-
i lug to cooperate in ridding Chihuahua, i
Soiioia and i.oalillll.i of bandits
"Wo think the United States and
Mexico nie In accord: the situation now
l.s In the hands of Sertetary Lansing
at Washington and Foreign Minister
Agiular at .Mexico city lloth sides aru
iiiiilldeiit that an amicable arrangement
I can be made
' "A protocol most likely will be signed
very soon. Mexico does not demand the
' withdrawal of the American troops. Wo
demand only a reciprocal agreement
' whereby Americans and Mexicans will
have equal rights on both sides of the
l!io Grande border to run down VUllsta
! bandits."
j Tills declaration was made In tho pri
i vate car of Gen. Scott.
I Gen Scott Interjected :
"Senor Amador, was ever a word t
saitl 111 me coinercni- on cuiie-r sine
I about an ultimatum?"
j "Never In my hearing," responded Mr.
J Amador.
"Gen. Obregnn never presented any
I thing like an ultimatum and 1 am sure
Hen. Scott never maffe a remark that
! could be so construed," continued Atua
I dor "We did not dwngrco In any serl
' ous sense. Gen. Oliregou asked that 111"
'Americans bo withdrawn. Gen. Scott
1 said tills was out of the question, (Jen,
' Ohregon was without authority to say
I that the troops could remain, therefore
we put thu whole question up to Wash
j U BOATS KEEP BERLIN
POSTED ON IRELAND
i I'lirensored Letters Telliiyr ofi
I Progress of llevolt Curried
liy Siiliiiiurines.
fperial f able Despatch roTim Stx
Stockholm, via London, May 13
Swedish travellers In German) return
ing to Stockholm repoit tint the trou
ble In Ireland 1. well known In Ger
many, Hie news coming fiom olllclal cir
cles and elsewhere. Communication be
tween Ireland and Germany is being
maintained via llergcn, Inquiry how this
Is possible in view- of thn llrltlsh cen
sorship Is nnsvvered by the statement
that "whetever our submariner! go there
is a postal service that cannot bo cen
sored." Tlie Germans, did not expert a suc
cessful revolt; much lisw did they Intend
to MMid troops, Hut they believed that
liouhlii enough could bo exc-itejl III
Ireland, irjiecially In the west, to compel
Gteat llrltaln to keep many thousand
of soldiers there. Tho German War
Dllice learned from Dublin e-vity step
that was taken.
U-18 ATTACKED SUSSEX.
I'nrls "Trnum" Sn) Comiiiniiiler
s.elnhrlcW Wn lli-cornti'd.
Special Cable Deipnlch to Tan St
Puns, -May 1- Tho Timps under-
stands from u highly trustworthy source
, that tho submarine which torpedoed the
I Sussex was the IMS, commanded by
Obcr-Lctitnaut Stelnbrlek. Tho 7Vmps
anus :
"The Information received adds thnt
thu ntllcer has Just received tho cross of
tho Ordro pour lo Merlte. Perhaps that
is what the German nolo tn America
calls 'punishment.' "
The correspondent of Tub Sun Is
ablo to verify the correctness of the
statement that it was the U-18, com
manded by Ober-Leutnant Stelnbrlek,
which torpedoed tho Sussex. This fact
doubtless has been known In WasIUng
ton tot tomo time.
ington nnd Mexico city witn a lequest
for arbitration.
"All we want Is a reciprocal agree
ment whereby Carranzlstas will be al
lowed to cooperate with Americans on
both sides of the International boundary
III cleaning up tho bandits and tebels."
linker Is Pleased.
That Secretary of War lt.iKt.-r was
pleased vvilh the outcome, ot the con
fcrctiie, was evidenced In thu following
telegram In Gun Scott to-day:
Acknowledging receipt of your mes
sago regatillng the closing of the con
ference. 1 extend to you and Gen.
Funston my cordl.il thanks for tho
very ublo way In will, h )oil and ho
have conducted tho difficult and deli
cate negotiations entrusted lo you.
No one could have accomplished moro
than von have done, and It Is doubted
whether nny one else could have nc-coinpl.-hf
d mi much The entire
ionri of the Amen an conferees is
heartily ni-jiroved.
During their conference to-dav with
Amador the) discussed wilh him tho
arrival of additional troopi In northern
Mexico. Amador said that Gen. Ohre
gon was determined to suppress banditry
nnd that lO.noO troops were being or
dered into northirn Mexico with head
quarters at Chihuahua city.
Another force, he said, was being sent
out from Chlhu ihii.i In tho direction of
the "llig Iletid" country to cooperate
from thn south with thu American
rones from the north then running down
the bandits.
Gen. Funston stated this afternoon
that ho had received no continuation of
further attacks on American forces on
this side of tho line- In the Dig Hend coun
try. Tim General added that he must
have more motor trucks for supplying
his for'-es operating in the Dig Hend.
Hu has but nine motor trucks to cover
the line south to the border, which Is
twenty-live tnlbs long, and forngo for
tlie borse, as well ns food for tho men.
has to bo taken on thes,. trucks.
F.t Id telegraphic communication Is
now being arranged to cover the coun
try to tin- border and It Is expected to
havn communication working fio.n Mar
athon to lioqutllas by Sunday.
Gen Funston watched thu New Mex
ico militia pa through here to-day on
their way to Columbus, N. M., for
assembling for duty and recelvnl in
ports of the arrival of the last of the
Texas ni'lltla at San Antonio, and tho
last of the Arlzoiia.milltl.i at Nogales.
The General was besieged to-day by
civilians ot proml'ienee throughout the
Southwest who wish to organize volun
teer regiments. He Informed them all
that volunteers are not yet needed, ns
the National Guard will bo called out
tlrst.
one of these offering to raise a vol
unteer regiment was Mayor Tom Lea of
LI I'.iso, Another was Judge Colin Neb
lett of New Mexico, who with Dave
Prior, a cattleman of New Mexio, of
feieil th" servln-s of a regiment Judge
W . II. Al bott or Albuquerque. N M. is
Cnliiin'1 nr tile New Mexico regiment of
riulitui, which passed through lleie th.s
;:!tetiwiu. for Colun.bus. It Is "lie of
the bet National Guard organizations In
tin- country, according to the rating
given by Inspectors of the regular army.
1 'neaslpes over tlie local situation and
the situation In the valley of the ItiO
iraniie north of here was mteiisllled
to-d.1) by the finding of tlie' bod) of
Mat'jel Linn, a Cuban, ill an irrigation
i.r.h north or HI Paso. There- wore bul
let holes In his body. This Is the second
mysterious death recently and follow i?
tin- known existence of a large number
of former Villa sold'.ers In the vicinity
111 New Mixico.
Jose Ynez Salazar, ex-Orozco Gen
eral, who leccntly took the field for tile
announced putpose of tiuiiting the Car
ranzlstas. the Americans and any others
wiio olfercd their resistance, to-day sent
a mcssaire to Juarez asking for amnesty
and peimisMou to surrender. Gen. Gu
vira sent him word that a line of com
munication would be established between
his m-ck and thu ntarcrt Cottonwood
trie if lie was captured,
When ilrst reports came ot the Glenn
Springs raid in the illg Hend" country
list Sunday Salazar was charged with
tlie crime, until it developed that there
were nine armed American soldiers In
the place attacked. Then tho Salazar
Idea was abandoned, as Consul Garcia
made the declaration that Salazar had
never been known to have attacked more
than three armed Allien, ans at one time.
SAYS U. S. TROOPS MISS
' HOT CAKES AND TEA
Mexico City Pnpcr Scores
Americans a. Wealvliui:-.
W'a ti I in ir Luxuries.
I
icedn ' able Itepatrft to Tnu Si v
Mkviim i'itv. May 12 Minister of
Foreign All. urn Agullar has given out
tlie following statement:
"In view of the fact that the confer
ences held on the frontier hetw-ien Gen".
Ohregon and Scott havo bien adjourned
tlm Chancelleries of Mexico and the
t'nlted Slates will continue treating di
rectly on ever) thing relating to the re
tirement of thu American lorces from
the lepubUc.
Accloit Mundinl, In an editorial remjip
of the developments from tho Columbus
Incident, semes Americans throughout.
sa)ln regarding tlie American trooi:
'These troop are in the worst mural
roJidllion. because, they are deprived of
commodities to which they are ncctis.
tninrd, They miss their hot cakes 111
the morning, their nitnuul; they lack
Ice water at dinner, their ham and eggs,
their spotless tablecloths, tho service of
liegiiiisi. and iiiu-h less can they have
the hivitry of their r. o'clock tea In com
pany Willi fair wniiien
"During their lunches they need enn
slanlly ainbukincis which pick up sol
dlcin who tire from walking llftecn kilo
nielers Wo are well Infot med that somi
Hoopers Imvc killed thimselve.s lifter
toilsome man lies There Is nothing rare
In th.s for Aiiieiicuu soldiers have done
likiwlsn In Cuii.i and, above till, In Veix-z-nc!
i. where suicides rn up Into thou
sands a few iI.i)n after they penetrated
into thut legion "
Prisoners Heller Treated .Voir.
Special table Heipatcn to Tins Sr.v
AMSirntiAM, May 12. A despatch
from Solla slattn that tho American Con
stil's complaint concerning thu treat
ment of llrltlsh .prisoners, haji been met,
all Improvements suggested hnviiw been
granted. The legal ion nuw approve of
the condition.
V
VILLA CHASE
ENDS; TROOPS
WOVE NORTH
(en. JVi'slihi": Ordered to
Stny Within M) Miles
of Holder.
UAA'DIT CM KF NOW
MAXV 31 1 LICS TO SOUTH
CiiiTi.nzii Off k'iiils -Fear Own
Troops 31;iy Cause Ureak
ly A Hack.
OllKKtiOX .SKXDS 111,000
M FX A FT F If I5A.XDITS
Cabinet Decides Forces Will
Xot Quit Mexico for
O'ooil.
AsiriN .TuN, May U F.i ale on the
part of Gens. Scott and Oi u . qi to
reach un agreement nt the.r .inferences
on tho bord r has resulted, ti i porarlly
at least. In all ab.iridor lu-i.t of tlio -base
after Villa.
Unable to ob i.u use of the Mi xirun
lallroads for tl, provision ng of tho
foice.s now- In Mexbo, Gen. Funston It
was authoritatively learned at tho WUr
Department this attertioon, has ordered
Gen. perhlng to draw b.i. k all his ad
vance columns and to cstabl,-h hta base,
north of Xamiquipi, h."u than 2uu miles
south of the bolder.
For tho pri-Mht at least it was indi
cated by -Majiir-Gen. Ta-ker II. Wis,
acting Chief of Staff. Gen. Pershing will
d vote his attention to policing th ariu
l.ving betwien his ii,-w ba and tlvi
border, pending developments
Therii' uc, it was slat, d, u..lrss Villa
abandons his pluu ot Idling and at
tempts In person another rud in thu
direction of the American I- 'rde-r, tho
chances of the American frces ever
catching him are slim.
Although tht advices concerning the
bandit whereabout ,,i, a ir 1 as
thu reports com ernltig tl.. limit uf
h.s woumU. the impr, s.-'-i 1- i ) cir
cles lure is that hu h. I r g i thu
mountains of soutlu rn i li. i ilnia or
northern Durango huudn ds t i. U s be
low .'a:ui'i'.ii,"
Troops, lo Iti-iiiiiiii.
Although, praet.iallv spr.iKiug the
character of the espe.litlon into Mexico
hue completely changed, in so lar as it
affects tliu orl-ln.il p .'V"-e to get
Villa dead or tillve. Secret..' v ef ur
Hakir, following to-da.v's nu-.i.- r of thu
Cabinet, which cnn-ulereu at si 'tnu length
the UIslHVeS"!ul outcon.e of the Scott
Ohrccoji conferences, anienri ed that no
iii.ini.-es nt policy l-.id been ib- . lid upon,
and that thu Ahkik.iu tru.q,- wjuld ro
ll. am tn Mi'Vi -0.
Gen. Scott has ben ordered r return
to Washington at oie e. I pcn his ar
rival ho will m.iko a full report of
tho cot ten jices to Secretarv Haker and
the President, and will confer with Sec
retary of Statu Lansing.
Gen Funston, Secretary H.tker said,
lias been ordeie.l to return to l.s head
quartii's at San Antonio, vvlih no re-Hr.'-tiiuis
of the powets or.ginai:y cor
Icrnd upon him by the President for
the conduit of tho PcrshtT.g expedition
and the protection of thu bolder
It was declared iiijih.itli-.illy that the
Pic.sldcnt was still iicterni:ned to avoid
intervention if It wa.s pisnblo to du
so, arid that on!) un overt pi evocation,
such, for i-Mimple, as an .itta k m force
by CarranzIst.iH on Gen. Pershing's col
umns in on the border, nould foico lilm
to ihangu Ids m ml.
Wlulu tin- Wat- Department is pre
lurid, .t iiecess.uy. In send any addi
tional tegulai army for.-es to tho border
and the President is ready, should Fun
stun deem It ncces-.iry to onU r nut moro
national guudsine'i. it was .1. -'arid by
Secretary Haker tu.it at pre-, nr. there
wa.s no intention of doing eituer
Vloilciiiis IVnr Trouble.
In MeMcjiti I'nibassv li. adipiarters
lure the situation is . . w.d wi i snmn
alarm. While it Is de. .nvd that Car
ranza will undoubtedly tl ivirytilt:g
possible to prevent a c.oh with the
American Government, appr, ' ension
' espresn il over thn effi ot w II . Il tho out
conio of the border Co p r' in h will
have nn tho Mexican p. "Pie and thero
Is fear that an lrrespoii...lle iiioril nute
loinni.itnli r in tho Carr.in.i army might,
precipitate trouble by S"in ov rt net
App.itctit.y couviiKCil ih it no iinml
runt danger is threaten, d. Pie ideiit
Wilson left to-night lor ' v i .-k end
cnil.-o on the Mav llow-er at I rotary
j Haker this nltcrnoou went t Atlantic
ii iiy to unenu a iianqii't. tho Secro
tary will speak In New.ul., N. J,
to-
morrow evening.
Alarming press repoi's w' h came
from the border tins afternoon to tho
elfect that Gen ohregon was moving a
force of tu.uuo Car r.uizis.as in tho
direction of the tenitorv smi'li of lh
Hlg Hend district of i'e.i, wionn the
Glenn Springs and Hoqui.iait raids oc
cui red, appear to have been confused
Willi all olhcl.ll llespiuir l,i the statu
Dcpirtftiei.l, telling . f a movement of
boiween 10,000 and 1.1, nm) i-.irr nizlstas
to that region for the purpose of trying
to cut off tho bandits who i aided tho
American tonus,
Whether tho tecond Ann .can expedi
tion, In conmiind of Major- J.anghorne,
lias crossed tho border it n t known
definitely at the War Department, al
though it Is as.nimcd tli.it it has.
Gen. Hllss explained that tho last re
poit which ho had nccivcd w.i i tlm
r fleet that tho i spedlti..n would bu ready
lo strut last Wodiiesd.!) and that It
would consist of four troops ..f cavalry
Horn 111 I'.isu, under command of Majo'i
Latighoruo and two troops of cavulr)
and h machine gun from Fort Clark,
Texas, under command ot Col, Sibley.
Afrnld to SI mi Aureciuciit,
III reporting to tho War Department
this morning tho adjournment without
result of his conferences with Gen, Obre
Ron, Hen. Scott Indicated that th
I stumbling block to nn agreement was thn
luOTliajnewM ot tho Mexican Mlnhrter ot
