NN3HT
EXTRA
Euenmg
s
J4 Ml' "
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOt. H.-NO. 208
PHIlJADJiliPHIA, SATCBDAY, MAY 18, 1910.
CortmoHT, 1B10, si h Pcsuo Lidos CourANt.
PRICE OM CENT
. . ,
fAR COMPELS
L S. TO CHANGE
FREIGHT RATES
u
ftnterat'ate Commission
plans Big Keaajuswnem,
of Shipping Charges
IjjAY 'STOP CONGESTION
twestern Firmd Complain They
. Are Hearing jouiuuh un
fairly Put on Tliom
Surgical Operations','
i to,"Cure" freight Rates
BALES OF SPUN COTTON MAKE SPECTACULAR BLAZE
Remedied to bo applied by" the
Interstate Commerce Commission
to readjust freight rates because
of war shipments will be. compar
,ibl6 to surgical operations the
ijltimate good cannot be accom
plished without considerable pain.
The commission, when the
changesV into effect, will 'not-nl
low goods to remain in eastern sca
obrti warehouses or on cars on sid
Jn1 in yards without- paying in
creased rental charges.
manners are protesting' against
advanced rates on war products,
"tint th commission win Krani, sev
eral 'increases on this sort of goods.
The pica oi rnnroaus iu swucn
shipments from big eastern ports
to gulf ports tnt' tho same rate 4s
being considered by "the commission.
mbmh : i: t ,
VI mi i w -ivi ( KmmFm&wMGmmmM
"BACK LOANS,"
DEMAND MADE
UPON PENROSE
Edwin M. Abbott Urges
Senator to Approve Rapid
Transit Bill
'END PACTIONAL FIGHT"
"Stand for Greater City," Says
Oak Lane Park Associa
tion Head
WASHINGTON, May 13, DraBtle rem-
rtdles lor tho manifold ailments of tho
KAiAerlcan transportation system, Induced
j-ty the European war, aro In process of
lmnaraUon by tho Interstate Commerco
,6)inmlsslon, and tho next few months
&?tll 800 tho most completo readjustment
Kpf rata structures In ovory" part' of the
Ifljplted States which lias taken place since
ifilL commission was established. J
"We oro working:, day and night on tne
T nmbkms beforo us," said Chairman B. II.
K-if.wr nf tho commission, today, "but
v.JlWla no let-un In slglit"
&'7,:"'v. nn. ffnnannrtiitlnti ntfimtlnnn nrn.
XSX, ,! 0 i..t.1.w. .... -.- .
&& I1J 1... Ikn .nn nffniih inllnnfin ntul
i .JiIpper so acutely that the remedies to
applied by tho commission will bo
VfimDarablo to surgical operations the
B "ultimate Bood canno't ,bo accomplished
vf'V.:t1S rnnRtdnrable ndl'n.
TOSa to euro .tho conuuion or conses
(&Bffrelrht, cars at eastern terminals,
My l.o.lgrur 1'noto 1'atrul.
Several firemen were ovcrco'mo today by ffie dense smoke of a $75,000 blnzo, which destroyed tho warc-
' .house of F. B. Woll & Co., Church and S.tilcs streets, Frankford.
HENLEY REGATTA
IS BIGGEST CREW
EVENT ON TODAY
. 'HwififrelBht.
...BWoiomlssIon Is permitting railroads
'3;rjM!riliy to Increase charges fqr stor
Rjftfiind demurrage. This means that
FW2IMpi)4rs will not be. permitted to allow
toaan6cirfSnnrra6fr)r'8feapor.t
Phousen or, ln,;cars op edlngs' and Irt?
isitafres for tho 6Daco occupied. The com-
SlAlpn' fsels this Will expedite mbVement
ds,but 'Shippers of the. West-aro blt
Imy protesting that they are being made
tdfpiar a iburden' unfairly, placed upon
thif," But4 this reme'dy, the cdmmlssloh
Weres, also will .cure the, 'western car
Mortage, dolnfi Brent ultimate good..
I Sfilppers aro protestlpg ngalnst ad-
Mea rates n war products, but tho
WmIs3lon Is preparing to grant several
hctjases on this sort of. goods, holding
(hit 'profits will be fairly distributed be-
fuse ,of the high prices being received by
isiifacturers. Also .labor generally Is
jBlsg "PP and tho railroads must have
TOiUfpith which to pay their men.
One' of the greatest tranRnnrtatlrin
fiyplutlons now In process la the'chanclnrr
leCthe great traveled routes of rail com-
Iwerce;, So congested aro the ports of New J
fy1! -uoston, inuadelphla and Baltlmgro
Wt they cannotvsaueezo throuch tho vast
mount nf frnnila nffAfo.l fa Avnni nf
Iiom gateways, so .theYo are now pending
Mflefors the commission propositions of
?Uroads to put Into effect rates from tho
I rV manufacturing KtntcR nt h Nnrth
IMlth Atlantic ports and gulf ports
faW! snail to no higher than tho rates
Ifroffl these regions to tho four eastern
tPO!tS named tn nnftn nf'in.antDF H.lnnna
Kflolafions of tho Jong and short haul
iwiTc ' ,ne act to regulate commerco
W' (Wye to be nuthorlied by the com-
lfcil.,problem Presented In the'-lnter-ISr.?
ra,a cose' Involving the question
KLl er ra,ea from tne" Eastern sca-
eET a ; ,no iae'liQ ooast should bo
I Sf i ,wmove discrimination against
jao, Spokane and other cities on tho
ICoatlnentki rH.i,i .n,iii,.i .V. .-'.
It.?. wn wa"r competition through the
Fniuma Canal. Is considered a grave one.
P-1L2 uted " some quarters that tho
?i -'ooast rates may be allowed 'to
nwiy be reduced. This would entail
ifiIJ:i 3M0f avenues to the transcontl
KSr' I'roads. '
hizi """I'sslon Is working on new rate
Kffi IV t0 permlt tha free movement
ill S? TBea of the vast volume of trade
iww .1 een ,nfwn to rail lines par.
Kfar !1iarI of railroad rates Is under-
IS tf flra lr.oada wl" wln " t"a struggle
Euf alJlssu, " tha PUZ2l uppermost
KJjn minds of shippers and carriers.
'THE WTCATTTinR
L fvii a terrible Bkv that irlnnmnVt ,To,r,
Sfa!faS'.aL?e.re,luctanlly "JW-out of the
yTi!fa. , d took tt 'Ok "ft " weather
all t'ne SwAS?.r.e w?5 " fl ' blue
PiaiWo. ' .'" J",lly in our spirit.
WgY appeared as If at any moment.it
icwhT. .7 "lat wuia via wnn
riiraUrg of tho r,.i,,,ii,iii , .i..
BSSih.i.T!lich. thousands of eyes and
BsS,' w,heeI Will be until dusk If
r ""iqan wenley, yQU know.
Four College Entries
Childs Cup Race, the
FeaturetNumber
m
SEVEN JUNIOR t EIGHTS
FOTtTZn A Bfi
&fr irWWelphia ond
r my cioudy ton
vicuutv
W romffftt and Sundtfy,
t decided rhn-,,,,1 . S;.Z'
'?' tttoderafB -nnwA .,,; ...
--- rnriiii uxtit r(V(mVG4b
X03T
n
yOVND
iij?i'?f.Hoyni wiifrw sin" with neatU,
Wnt."?. W Wck net bow. Tiii.lv. Ma J II
: " returned nJ. n w .,.
j M Uypy aneg. araPWM'n.
3tXot liL '. 'ia ,Wu - A. .,
SWS,"""
'FAILS OI? SCHUYLKILU Pa., Jlay 11.
-Tho American Henley races today drew
10,000 persona to the banks of tho Sciyuyl-,
kill River Ip Falrmcjunt 'Park.-' E.vsry
jlargo: Easternrvntverslty. WltUpretenaloris.
to rowing fame except Cornell 'sent crews ,:
:;to.'omreteMn "this,''" the most' Important
aquatic gathering, of tho ear. .
More than ' 206 . marine, athletes were
entered tlie regatta, tho )14th annual
American, Rowing Association faces. "The
,olght-oared crews of the University of'
Pennsylvania, ' Princeton. Columbia and
.the,Un!ted States Naval .Academy com
peted for tho Childs cup In a race Im
portant In determining the 'status o. the
eastern crews. The cup wan offered as a
perpetual challenge by George W. Childs
In 1829. The otherraces brought out tho
cream of the,, rowers and scullers of the
rowing clubs. ,
,It was a wonderful day for tho regatta,
The banks of the placid rlvor from tho
starting point near tho -Falls bridge to
tho finish line 'abovo the .Columbia avqnue
bridge were greener than; last month,
"when Penn took tho measure tof tho elght-
, oared Yalq crow,' The sycajnores. and
willows tha"t fringed tho waters edge had
clothed themselves In green thM was mir
rored' tn the gray waters.
SO' lifeless was tho ulr that kthb vernal
haie purpling the distances ,hung listless
over thb water. 1A plight southerly breeze
freshered the atmosphere shortly beforo
the faces began and tho curtain of low
clouds' parted, sending a blaze of yellow
sunshine over the course: Until then the,
setting was dingy enlivened, only by the
fringe of green and the bright flash of
women's gowns and hats.
The races aro .to sty rt at 2 o'clock, wfth
the first single sculls event. In which John,
B. Kelly,' of' the Vesper Boa.t Club, will
row against Edward, P. Hoffman, Jr., of
the ,Unlvefs(ty .Barge Club, ,
t The first of the feature events upon
which the eyes of the rowing world are'
centred, will" bo started 10. minutes later,
at 2:10,-.when the, first heat of the Junior
dolleglate elght-oared race wlll.be r,owed,
In which Pennsylvania will Have'the west
shore course,' Syracuse the, No, 2 position
and HarvnriT.No. 3. Although Yale Is en
tered, it was stated last night they will
not row as .this. Yale crew Is entered In
the flrst'elght rate for the Stewart's .Cup
at 5:B0. o'clock, '
The second heat ,of the junior collegiate
race will be rowed Immediately follow
ing the, finish. of the. first heat, at 2:30.
The comDe'tlng creWs wlU beJU, S. Naval
Academy.' Princeton, Yale arid tlarvard.
The first .and- second crews to flnjah Inl
-..-1. -4'MU..- t;&Hn ...ll mt1l.. .- At...
eacil Ul MfQ iicaia w,, -iu,ujr ius ilia
final heat scheduled to be rowed at 1 tlO.
Tho speplal four-oared shells race will
bring together tha U, S. Naval Academy,
Vesper Boat Club 'and University Boat
Club. , ,
The most Important event of .the day,
the Ohllds Cup Race, between , four 'var
sity crews, promises to 'be u battle worm
witnessing. The Columbia University
eight, which has-not been tested this year,
will row against the1 U. S, Naval Academy,
Pennsylvania's 'varsity and Princeton's
FIREMEN HURT IN $75,000
BLAZE IN COTTON WAREHOUSE
,2000 Bales Destroyed by Flames.
Adjoining House Mined
Two thousand baleB of spun cotton
stored In a corrugated iron warohouso nt
tho mill of P. B. Woll, Church and Stiles
streets, Frankford, furnished fuel for a
.furious fire this -morning, during-which
several firemen woro ovcrcomo by smoka
and property loss estimated at $75,000 vas
suffered. A dwelling house In the rear of
i tho mill was damaged to tho extent of
t?1000 and other buildings wero endan-
..gored.
Adam Qoercs, CB" years old, of 2437
North Reese street, Captain of Engine
Company .13, Rlchmoiid and Klrkbrlde
streets, was caurht Under a falllnir wall.
,Ho was dug- out by his men and taken
.to the Frankford Hospital. His buck Is
sprained. and he has burns of tho head'
arid faco; Coorgo 'Holmes, E2 years old,
'or "Wl33lnomlng, a hoseman of Englno
Company 62, Jacksoi) and Van Kirk
streets', was cut on tho right hand by a
baling hook.- Ho and ,tho. other Injured,
"firdmcrt' Wire attended ft tho'scono. of the
fire". ," '
'Joseph' WUda and his wife. Frances.
whoJlvti at ,-310 JIMnor streot; discovered
itlio blase ribput '7' o'clbck." Their', house
istands'ln tho rear'tf the warehouse. They
'gave tho alarm and had barely time to
;carry out s'omb of their furnlturo when
their own homo' was set ablazo iby flying
(sparks. '
BILL HOLLENBACK
AND FAIR DANCER
PREY OF GUNMAN
With Mrs. W. L. Ziegler He
Is Robbed on Club's
Tennis Grounds
McNichol Says It's Wisdom
to Support Transit Loan
Dnvid T. Hart, at a meeting held
nt United Republican Club, 4G2B
Frankford avenue last night, said:
"Senator McNichol told mo It
was a wise thing to support tho
loans.
"Transit -lonn will give Frank
ford elevated road for which it ha3
been agitating for 30 years."
' "Defeat of the lorvns would bo
a municipnl calamity."
"City, if measures vwero lost,
would bo a 'laughing stock for tho
nation.' " .
WERE OUT FOR STROLL
CANS RAID
RANCH AND SET
FIRE, TO SCHOOL
V .
Border Bandits, Trying to
Talce Horses, Rep'elled
by Farmer ,
' r
FLEE OVER KIO GRANDE
J ' 4 K"oMd Ad n 15
Continued on raie.leen, Qolumu Three
BRUMBAUGH INDORSED
BY RAILWAY CONDUCTORS
Order Commends .Him' MCllampion of
Human Rights ,
HARRISBURJ3. Way A3. Governor"
Brumbaugh today was notified by A. B.
Garrettson, grand president, of the Order
of Railway Conductors, that, the grand ses
sion of the order at St Muls yesterday
unanimously adopted a resolution "in
dorsing and'NP'nmendUis hjm or havlne
demonstrated as Governor1 that human
personal- right and interest should take
precedence over property right and In
terest." J , . . .
The resolution was presented by Senator
-nniii.rr, -.i. nnrke. of Pittsburgh, general
chairman Of ths conductors on the Haiti-1
more and Ohio and. Southwestern systems. I
LAREDO, Tex., May 13. Mexican
bandits today raided the form of Am
brose Johnson, on the American side of
the Rio Grande, nbout 23 miles north
west of Laredo, after setting fire to a
schoolhouso'at Leynndecker. Johnson
discovered the bandits driving away
his horses and opened fire with a rifle.
The bandits fled, crossing the river
into Mexico. ",
ivir.snw watto fnn crnTu
TO REPORT ON CONFERENCE
j. ,
WASHINGTON, May U. The Mexi
can situation simmered down again to
day tq watchful .watting. -
While contraction of the, lines south
of Columbus - is virtually accomplished,
,MaJor, Ianghorne's men apparently are
on a hot trait after the Boqulllas raiders
and CarranzUtas are, heading1 toward the
Big -861111, avowedly to co-operate In run
nlntr.lown tha bandits.
If nothing- untoward occurs the Ameri
can punitive expedition hopes to make a
"clean-up" In policing .Northern Chihua
hua, Meantime Carranza forces are ex
pected In, the Parral district. Hope of
catching Villa Is not high. The one great
question for army men Is whether Car
ranza Rarrlsons can be kent In cheek af.
tr t Is known the punitive expedition
refusesHO quit Mexico. PrlvateJy offlclals
say that conditions below the Rio Grande
are such that there may be real trouble
(at any time.
New light on conditions Is expected
from .General Scott, United States Army
Chief of Staff, now on th,eway here fol-"
lowing taiiure w reacn an agreement wiin
GenereJ pbregon. Ills Information will
be ustd for guidance, but for the present
will' npt swerve from the course of staying
In Northern Mexico nuntil It - is certain
that io mareTjjorde.r; raids wfll occur.
As matters now stand, offlclals charged
.With handling the Mexican, problem can
. not be said to be pessimistic. They are
merely keeping a watchful eye on de-
!. veloprhents with the realisation 'hat whije
ns ijiiuauoi) aas unpica&am poBsiuiiKiea
the American work may go on without
1 hindrance.
H fnyfan InihaDCoHn. l-radnnHn fa av
pected to .undertake soon negotiations
k
Cpntliiutd'ou r.to Two, Cslusin JFour
ji'jiAU
WILLIAM H. HOLLENBfACK
A strong appeal to Senator Penrose to
submcrgo factional politics In tho Inter
ests of a. "Greater Philadelphia" and to
como forth publicly In support of tho $67,
100,000 transit and port loan bill nnd tho
general Improvement loan was mado today
In a, letter to tho Senator from Edwin M.
Abbott, president of tho Oak Lano Park
Improvement Association. Tho letter
called upon renroso to como out person
ally for passage of tho loan bills on Tues
day and to urge his political friends to
do the same.
Hty dtar Senator Penrose:
"I nra writing you on behalf of tho Oak
Lano community as well ns voicing the
sentiments of hundreds of thousands of
citizens of our beloved city of Philadel
phia to ask for your public -approval of
tho passage of the loan bills for transit,
port and other purposes which will come
boforo tho people at tho election on Tues
day next.
"Knowing your heretofore great pride In
tho City of Philadelphia, nnd your patriotic
Interest In everything necMlnlng to its
advancement, wo aro appealing to you to
discard all factional and political consld
eratlon at this time, and by your publlo
declaration assist tho municipality In tak
jlng a step forward along tho HnoS along
where It lias been' so greatly retarded,-In'
tho past.
"Tho outlying sections of tho -city ars,
suffering not only "from lack of proper
transit-facilities, but -from exorbitant' rail
road rates as well.
'Tho natural development oi tho city
must be 'toward the 'suburbs. '
"Tho' loan .for transit piirposes will aa-i
sure all of our' citizens of-rapid transporta
tion within a reasonable time.
"The development of'tho port Is most
vital to tho. entire community.
"Tho provisions in th6 other Joan bill
for public Improvements affecting 'every
one afo so vital that It Is not necessary
for me to lay stross upon them. It Is
greatly to bo deprecated that any fao-
QUICK NEWS
ST. LOUIS V. TO
ATHLETICS. 0
..
'f&.
i .
''&
Groom nnd Hartley; Myers and'Schaitgi' $,
PHILLIES. . ,
CINCINNATI
'.-,'-,
,
A
.421-
PRINCETON
PENN...
i .-
,'V"
".;
'jT-1
n 41
7'''r.'
1.
-
METHODISTS BALK AT ORGANIZED LABOR .
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y'., May 13. The Methodist Episcopal
Oencral Conference today by a vote of 447 to 280 refused to. indorse
thnt portion of the Methodist Federation of Socinl Service which made
it mandatory that organized labor be employed in Methodist bpolc
publishing concerns. The remainder of tho report was adopted.
TWENTY-SEVEN INDICTED FOR NIGHT RIDERS' RAID
LI3XINGTON, Ky., May 1U. Twcnty-scvcu rcaideuts of Hopltlna
County woro Indicted today for alleged participation, in tho shooting
tip of Carboudalo by liiyut riders, wheu oue child was killed.
NO PEACE MOVE BY THE POPE, UNLESS ASKED
ROME, May 18. Pope Benedict will initiate no positlvemove-
incut for peace until lie. is formally invited to act, cHlicr by, a neutral
Powr or one of the belligerents.- This much may be sold authorita
tively. If Monsisjuori Bonzano, ajiostolic. delegate nt'WasWngjton, de
livered a pence message on lils recent visit to the "White House,. as Is
persistently reported lierc, he was merclsoujullrtg out th" views of
- tho, Pi'ssidput, .,' " '
. ";. -. - ,';
r
BRITISH ANTI-DRAFT SPEAKERS MENACED
.'."' .' v ;,"'''-
LONDON", May 13. Police, wero, called out this afternoon to pro
tect George Lansbury, Labor menibcr of Parliament; Mrs. 'Despard
and other rmtl-conscriptlquists, whowpre nddrcssfug a mcotlng'hi the "
Ethical Society Builtliug. Crowds gathered around the placu hissliig
all persons wlio came to tho meeting and shouting' threats of violence.
"Big Bill" Hollenback, former Penn
varsity football star and All-American
fullback selection, strolled the grounds
of the Whltemarsh Country Club during
an interlude Ip tho dlnner-danco given
last night by M,r. and Mrs. Ps'.er Wright
to the members of their dancing class.
Ula muscular right arm supported Mrs.
Waller Xj. Ziegler. one of tho guests, who,
like himself, had sought a" momentary
respite' from the heated dancing floor to
enjoy the freshening night air.
With reminiscence of feats upon the
gridiron arenas of footbalr battle, Hollen
back stirred the admiring enthusiasm of
his fa,lr companion. Obltvipus to all save
their conversation arid the Invigorating
night breeze, they approached the tennis
courts of the club.
From the clubhouse, where, some 70
membors of tha class were assembled,
floated the dreamy strains of a waltz. The
jewels in Mrs. Zlesler's costume flashed
brilliantly amid the surrounding darkness.
Rapt in their conversation, tho strolling
pair had wandered several yards from the
lighted clubhouse, .when their further pas
sage was rudely nnd suddenly halted.
Out' of the. Bloom and Immediately In
front of thoir path bulked a man, whose
dark1 sack suit and derby liat contrast
ed shabbily with the evening attire of
tho persons ho Interrupted. The strange
appeared to be about 27 years pld, and In
height was a couple of- Inches under Hoi
lenback's six feet. "
"Good evening," he began. Then,
awaiting no response, he continued to a'd
dress Hollenback and Mrs. Zetgler with
out further formalities.
"You are a big chap, but you don't
bother me. I am desperate,"
"What la this, a Joke?" queried ?Iol
lenback, uncertain ri the darkness
whether the seeming hold. up was gen
uine or a hoax. As he spoke "Bill" at
tempted to ee.t a nearer view of the
stranger. He drew back precipitately as
a flashlight In tho newcomer's left hand
revealed a Steel revolver, barrel gleaming
from the man's other tuind.
"You, don't bother me. even if you are
a big fellow,)' repeated the armed person
age, "Just walk in froht of me. both of
you, and don't ti-K to make an outcry
This is a case of extreme necessity, Ypu
had better "shell out.' Throw your valu
ables on the groupd here and I can pick
them up afterwards."
Realizing that resistance was useless,
HoUenbask' complied with, the request He
abstracted & (p cash from his wallet ahdl
dropped tne note?, onto the ground- He,
fumbled somewhat In removing his. watch
and fob. Mrs. ZJtgler. rf the meantime,
was unfastening several pieces . of gold
and diamond Jewelry which formed part
of her toHette,
She had previously cast upon the sward
Continued on Fate Two. t'olumu Three
Continued an Pace Four, Column Two
ARMY OF 65i000
MEN PLANNED IN
CONFEREES' BILL
Measure Reported to Both
Branches of Congress
Asks 206,000 Regulars
448,000 NATIONAL GUARD
Provisions of New Plan
. to End Army Deadlock
A standing army totaling 206,
000 enlisted men, peace strength.
A Federalized National Guard of
448,000 men. Elimination of the
Federal volunteer army plan.
A $20,000,d00 nitrate plant.
A seven-year enlistment term in
the regular army.
Military training camps organ
izeAm tho Plattsburg plan.
An investigation of the advisa
bility of Government manufacture
of all war munitions.
186 SIOUX INDIANS BECOME UNITED STATES CITIZENS
YANKTON, S. D., May 13. One hundred and elghty-slx Sioux Indians toay
forsook tho faith of their fathers and became American citizens. Secretary of
tho Interior Lano nnd his staff on behalf of President Wilson conducted iho serv
ices. Each Indian upon being called ills white name was handed an arrow and
directed to shoot it, indicating Ills abandonment of the primal mode of livlngv
'He then grasped the handle of a plow the white' man's burden. , Secretary Lano
then presented each with a leather purse and a gold badgo with -the inscription
"An American citizen" unon It. A great crowd viewed the' ceremonies.
POLICE SEARCH FOR ESCAPED HOSPITAL INMATES
Police and detectives tpday are searching for two men, patients of the Phila
delphia Hospital, who executed one of tho most cleverly planned escapes inthe
history of tho Institution. The. men are Alexander Frame, C2 years old, and
Edward Moyers, -M years old. Both were "trusties." MeyerB is not insane. They
put pillows In their beds to simulate sleeping forms nnd unlocked five doors with
a pass key they had fashioned. They got over a lOtfoot wall to the street. Their
absence was discovered when they were .called this morning, They aro dressed
in corduroy trousers and dark shirts.
WASHINGTON. May 13. A defense
farce in time of peace-of"654,000 men was
proposed today In the army bill 'which the
Senate and House conferees reported to
both branches of Congress after several
weeks' close conference.
Though a compromise, the measure In
cludes all the juoylslona urged by "big
army" men, except the Federal reser.ve.
With both chairmen urging Its passage,
action Is expected Monday.
The defense force wll consist of an
army of regulars totaling In all Its
branches 20S.000.tnen in time of peace
andU4S,000 National Guardsmen 800 for
each' Senator and Representative,
There will also be specific power re
served to. the Government In time of war
to take over any manufacturing plant in
the country tq make munitions and p.
board d"f two civilians and three officers
appointed by the President to Investigate.
the proposition of the Government making
au its war supplies, v'ua Doara must re
port by January 1. 1917.
PLAN FOR NITRATB PLANT."
Twenty million dollars is appropriated
for a Government nitrate Riant for the ex
traction of nitrates from tha air as a
basis for munitions making. The sur
plus may be sold for fertilizer. This plant
Is to be operated exclusively by the Gov
ernment, on a site tq be., selected by the
President,
Private soldiers are to be. given train
ing In trades by officers while In service.
Continued su Vale Tno. Column Three
5000 FISH IN DELAWARE KILLED BY POISON
Guards and other officials at the House of Correction estimate that more
than 6000 fish wero killed as the result of the giving; way of the breast of tha
ice pond on tho grounds of that institution yesterday. Poisonous acid drippings
flowed into tha dam where the fish were imprisoned In shallow water. Examina
tion showed more than two-thirds of the fish to be of the rock species, supposed
to be extinct in tho Delaware Ulver, The poisons are attributed to the chemical
plants ulone tha city's upper water front.
NORWAY FREES INTERNED GERMAN AIRMEN
BERLIN, May 13, "According to a dispatch from Chrlstlapla," says the
Overseas News Agency, "six men of the wrecked Zeppelin IJ-20 liavo been ro.
leased, In viewof the lack of International regulations regarding airships, "When
returning, it is presumed, from a raid on Great Britain, the Zeppelin L-20 was
wrecked op the Norwegian coast. All 10 of the crew were rescued and Interned."
ALLIES DETERMINE ON FORCE WITH GREECE
BEltLIN, May 13. The Entente Powers have decided to resort to force, if
necessary, to transport th Serbian troops at Corfu across Greek territory to the
Salonlca front, according to the Overseas News Agency. "The official Russian
Press Bureau, as quoted by Petrosrad newspapers," says the agency, "announces
that the Greek Government is adhering to its decision to refuse permlssjon for
passage of the Serbian troops. The Russians believe Greece is actuated by fear
of Germany, The Entente Power have decided to employ force, being prompted
by desire to determine definitely the .policy of Greece. The Entente Ministers
have received orders to act. In conformity with the allied military authorities."
BERLIN REPORTS FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH DUTCH
BERLIN, May 13. The evening edition of the National Zeltung publishes
an interview with Baron Gevers, the Dutch Minister; to Berlin, concerning t'a
Tubantla case, says the Overseas News Agency. The Minister said that hj will
leave Monday for home, not to report to his Government, but merely on private
business. The Minister authorised his interviewer to declare that tha relations
between the Dutch and German Governments are absolutely full of confidence
nd friendliness, and even cordial.
MRS. THOMAS B, SMITH, WIFE OF MAYOR, ILL
Mrs. Thomas B. Smith, jvIO of the Mayor, Is seriously 111 at lier home In
Olenslde. A physician Is In constant attendance, She was, strjeken while attend
ing the opera Thursday night and wasforcecl to leave during the performance,
MTli Son of Tarzao," Best .of the Tarzan Stories, Begins ip. the Amusement Section of Today's Evening LedgieV
a
M
K
-
1
