ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
Tktv.skvkntu year.
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Saturday, May 13, 1916.
Dully by Carrlt-r or Mall, OOo
a Month. Single Coplett, 64
vol.. CI.
AMERICANS MAKE
ANOTHER DASH
ACROSS BORDER
AFTER BANDITS
Cavalry Troops Are Reported
to Have Crossed Rio Grande
. to Rescue Citizen of United
States,
PARLEY FOR EXCHANGE
OF PRISONERS FUTILE
Surprise Attack Is Believed to
Be Only Means of Effect
ing an Early Liberation of
Captive.
r monin jounNtt. ciai. luiii wmti
Marathon, Tex., May 12. Reports
reaching here tonight Indicate that
Major George Langhorne and TroopR
A and 11, Eighth cavalry, have again
dashed across the Rio Grande from
Boquillas in an effort to surprise the
bandits holding Jesse Decmer a pris
oner. H. U. Husbrouck, an astayer em
ployed with a lioqulllag mining con
cern and now a government scout, ar
rived ''ere today with messages for
Capt. John S. Chamber at Marathon.
He is said to have told personal
friends that Col. Frod W. Sibley. In
ommnnd of the Big liend expedition-
iiry force, would order Major Lans-iing of tho indictments returned
home to reinvade. Mexico, as It was' against them last December for con-..10..-...1
,i,., nncrnnntinn. f,,r an ex- SDlrintr with Franz von Itinteleii, Ger-
ehanto of orisoners between Lanfr-lmnn
horne and the bandits had fallen j chnnan, of Illinois; Pavid Lamar, "the
through. I wolf of W all street," and others, to
('apt. John S. Chnmbers, base com-1 restrain the shipment of munitions to
mitnder, is planning to establish two j the entente allies by inciting strikes
motor truck relay stations on Hie Mar-1 in violation of the Sherman antl-nthon-Boqtiillas
road. V,';. j trust law.
No News of Parley.
No news of the' reported long range
parley between Major Lnnghnrn-" ;1
the Mexican bandits for the reka
Deenier, in exchange for the three
Mexican bandits captured recently,
were deemed available tonight.
Army men here, ure of the opinion
that If the stories of the so-called
'conference between Langhorne and
' the bandits are true it must result in
failure. Deemer, if alive, must be!
rescued by force, which must call for
a sudden dash toward the place where
the bandits ore said to have their ren
dezvous. To Reinforce (Jarrlson.
The 127th company of coast artil
lery, about 150 men, from Fort Sam!
Houston, will arrive early tomorrow
morning. Van of tho company will
reinforce the local garrison while the,
remainder will be used as guards
along the Marathon-Boquillns road,
leading to Colonel Sibley's expedition
ary column. j
it was orlirinallv intended to en
0
camp the entire company nt Mara-
inon, nut in view ol tne sniping u.
yesterday and the present lnstb uf,
the communication lines, Captain
Chambers decided to change the dis
position of the troops.
KequisltioiiH for an additional mo
tor truck section made several days
ug is expected to br honored by the
war department shortly.
PROMISES TO OA PIT HE
SLAVERS OF AMERICAN
Urownsvlllo, Tex,, May 12. United
Slates soldiers Will not cross Into Mex
ico from this tectlon of the border,
it was said at Fort Brown tonight, as
the result of the killing of Curtis
Biiyles, American farmer, by three
supposed Mexican bandits netir Mer
cedes last night. The bandits escaped
across the Rio Grande.
The matter was referred to Gen. Al
fred flieaut, Oairanzu commander at
Malanioros, opposite here, and upon
his promise to apprehend the Mexi
cans no further action will be taken at
this time.
' Two shots fired from the Mexican
side of the VUo Grande at two United
N'utes cavalrymen patrolling the bor
der early today, caused a complaint
to be made tonight io Carranza milt
try authorities at Matamoros
through American Consul J. H. John
son. Several shots have been fired
-.ctosk th" river in that vicinity late-lv-
General lileaot has promised a
Tore vigilant patrol on the American
side.
Gold !n polls From Canada.
N'cw York. May 12. Additional Im
PtTts of gold from Canada were re
ceived by J. p. Morgan & Co., today,
'naKing a total thua far this week of
more than $3,000,000. The gold,
whlch is more or le?s equally divided
hito sovereigns and bars, came from
Uawa in connection, it is believed,
with r?cent purchases of supplies by
tl.e Dominion of Canada.
The Day in Congress j
SFAATE.
K,nitor Sherman resunied his nt
tck in the river and harbor bill.
Brand.-ig Investigation yas reopen
ed. p. , , , ,,, ,
led Lodge bill to withdraw aico-
from l,r.r.1 tnv dnuh.rillAr, f fPd !
of tax.
HOISE.
debate on
' Hosunifil
Vtll.
rural credits
'""onslJered
tolls.
niiscellaneoug pension
THE WEATHER
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Denver. May 12. New Mexico:
Saturday partly cloudy, colder eas:
portion ; Sunday generally fair, cooler
southeast portion.
LOCAL WEATHER REPORT.
For twenty-four hour ending at
t p. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature. X3 degrees:
minimum, 41 decrees; range, 42 de
preen; temperature at 6 p. m., 74 de
grees; southwest wind; clear.
CITY BAXK OLEARXNG8.
Yesterday
J52.626.0S.
AUSTRIA AGREES TO
SUPPORTJGREEK LOAN
1y MotNiNa iounNAL ar-ciAt. lca-kd wiftti
Athens, May It (via Paris, May 12.)
The Austrian member of tho Interna
tional financial commission lias been
instruetou by his government to sup
port the Greek government's project
for a new internal loan. The govern
ment expects to Issue tho loan ut 88
1-2 with interest at 5 per cent.
The- Greek government has become
involve In serious financial difficul
ties, owing to the situation brought
about by the war and the expense of
keeping Its army In the field. The
finances of Greece are supervised by
an International commission repre
senting Germany, Austrla-iTIungary,
France, Great Britain, Italy and Rus
sia. A dispatch from Athens yester
day said the commission had disap
proved a project for an Internal loan
of thirty million drachmae.
Munitions Division ItiwnNl
New York, May 12. Decision was
reserved by Judge Wolverton, of Ore
gon, sitting in the federal district
court here today, on the motions
made by Frank S. Monnett, former
attorney general of Ohio, and Jacob
O. Taylor, president of Labor's Na-
tionul Peace council, for the quash-
agent; Congressman Frank Hu-
Visit Of Premier tO Dublin S
Believed to Open Way to
the Unraveling of Irish Tan
gle, MY MOBWNa JOUHMAl. CIAI LtAdCO IMI
London. Mav 12. Premier As-
l...,.u ,.unlvo In irr. to Dill)
" M ,)y & ,uport.
- -, ,, had
- )f asmiufi1ll(f political pas-;
ASOUITR POURS
OIL Oil TROUBLED
ITERS OP ERIN
sions. Parliament does not meet,sive, but Petrograd says the move-
Frtdavs and the fact mat mere wrto . ment was repuiscu. rarioer noun, ' . ... , " " ' , ,u . , , hcsh on, but tti a afternoon the ciu
ruaa., ........ ....I i ... h,in. nbnnt AU,.i,i,ni ,.:i,i,.h i i.m..u.i , flaRH waving, it Is safe to say that we,ir.nk between the United Slates and , ,
no session louav iu;i.'ru v,j ...n
a dav of calm, in strange contrast to j
yesterday's sensations.
The onlv new fact concerning the
ituation in Ireland Is that two other
lenders In th rebellion, whose execu
tion was delayed by Tremler Aso.ulth'8
undertaking that there would be no
further executions until after parlia
ment had debated John Dillon's mo
tion, have been put. to death. They
were James Connolly, one of the sign
ers of the proclamation of the Irish
republic, and John MeDermoU. It
eems extremely probable that now
there will be no more executions.
Deplore Cladcti of Dillon,
Some regret was expressed today
over the selection of Mr. Dillon to
move the resolution in the house of
common concerning Ihe executions.
vii r,f ihe slroimest supporters of
Ireland's cause advanced the belief
that it would have been better baa
some less emotional Irish member
been selected for that duty. The
feeling prevails that now everything
possible ought to be done to avoid
Inflaming public sentiment.
Much regret is voiced by influential
liberal newspapers that the govern
ment failed to stop the execution of
Connolly and McDormott. The Man
Chester Guardia:i and the Nation con
tend that a commutation of 'heso
i sentences would nave, uee.11 "
clemency but policy-
Asiiuttti !nve.tlgatci.
Premier AsQiiith appears to have
spent the day in Dublin seeing offi
cials and acquainting himself person
ally with the situation, and It is pre
sumed that it may be two or three
ihtvH before any radical derisions are
adop'M:. although it ia recognized on
ail sides that there Is urgent need
o res-establish an etfetcive ..'II ov-ernnu-iii
in Ireland.
.Much nope is expressed that somc-
i thing will come of tne piojeu
S
hiiicnt between Jotin lieuuii.u"
Sir Fdward Carson.
j Rolca-ed on Own Rl-llRTlizan
I Xe.tr York. May 12. L'nge.l
rt
ilronkorst, awaiting tiial with
Max
Breiturig and Dr. Arthur Kienzle mi
, . . . i... ....j- . .-i,n-
der an inuiciriienr onuu' ."'-.
1 ,unition.-can ying
11 . . ... ... .y...
ships, was ordered released rrom m
Tombs n his own recognisance. H
bad been unable to furnish $2.'.'0tt
bull and it was explained to United
States Judge Wolverton by the federa
district attorney s office that his trial
could not begin before the full term.
ULIIIIinilU ULILL
BRITISH FIRST
L
English Admit Loss of Posi
tion, but Claim Partial Re
conquest; French Win Along
Meuse,
RUSSIA REPORTS GAINS
ON SEVERAL FRONTS
Teuton Attacks Near Dvinsk
Repulsed; Moslems Defeat
ed Near Erzerum and Per
sian Frontier,
t MONIN JOUONAL 1CIAL ICAHO WIMI
Switching their attack from the
Vordun region against the French, the
Germans have begun agsin a sharp
offensive against the British line
around Hulluch.
Preceding their movements with
the usual heavy bombardments, the
Germans launched an infantry attack
against the British lines in the region
of Vermclle and were successful In
capturing first line trenches over a
front of about 500 yards. The Drit
Isll admit the loss of the position, but
say that part of them were retaken
in u counter-attack.
Many Ii1soner Taken.
Berlin declares that In their de
fense of the trenches, nnd especially
later in the counter-attacks, the Brit-
Ish suffered heavy casualties and in
addition lost men taken prisoners and
several machine guns captured.
Around Verdun the French on the
left bank of the Meuse have recap
tured points of vantage previously
taken from them southeast of Hnu
court by thei Germans. Bombard
ments are. again taking place in the
viclnty of Le Mort Homme and Cu
mieres and against the French first
and second line trenches on the right
bank of the Meuse between the Hsiu
drcmont wood and Vuux. A German
attack southeast jf Fort Douaumont
was repulsed.
German RepiiNc in Russia.
Considerable infantry fighting,
which as yet ha.s been without result,
is in progress, on the Dvinsk and Ja
cobstudt sectors of the Russian front.
Petrnp-rsid rerinrta th:.t flel'mnn at-
tacks at several points here and far-
l uier simiui nave lieen icwiosnu,
111 the Austro-Itallan theater In
tense artillery actions are ensuing in
the Col Dl Luna zone, und the Ital
ians have put down two Austrian at
tempts to attack against captured po
sitions on Mount Cukla.
Russians Claim Victories.
Tetrograd reports further progress
for the Russians fighting against the
Turks near the Persian frontier, with
Bagdad as their objective. Here the
Turks attempted to take the of fen.
-
(u-' .. ....... ...
fifty miles west of
Russians claim to hav
progress westward
Is at variance with the claims of Con
stantinople, which says that the Rus
sians, driven out of their positions nt
Mount Kope, west of Frzerum, are
making every effort to maintain
themselves in new positions.
Two other leaders in the Irish re
bellion, James Connolly, known us
commandant-general of the Irish re
publican army, and John MucDer
mott, have been tried by court-martial
and shot.
ANOTHER VICTIM OF
WRECK IS PICKED UP
lV MONIN JOURNAL CIAL UAKO W1MI
San Francisco, May 12. Another
lifeboat which contained a body, be
lieved to be thnt of John G. Dennis,
second officer of the sunken steamer
Roanoke, was picked up today by the
Pacific Mail liner City of Para, ac
cording to a radio message received
from that vessel lat today. The
body was found off Point Arguello,
fifty miles south of Port San Luis,
where a boat containing the three
known survivors of the wreck drifted
into the surf Wednesday. The body
was burled ut sou.
The two other boats reported by
tho sutvivors to have been launched
from the foundering Roanoke Tues
day afternoon have nut been account
ed for and hope that others of the
vessel's, crew of nearly fifty will be
found aiive has been abandoned.
Tho United States destroyers Hull,
Truxtun and Hopkins and a number
of launches continued today to patrol
the coast near Port .San Luis looking !
for the remaining bouts.
Clovis Banks I-rosiicrou.
Cloxls, X. M.. May 12. That Clovis
is on a solid financial foundation is
evidenced by the bank statements just
issued showing their condition nt tho
close of business May 1. The Clovis
National had on deposit $216,775.03;
I the First National 22X,2t4 5 and the
Citizens' ';s,fi1.2ti, tho latter bank
having only been open for business
since March 25. 1916. The total de
posits in the Clovis bank on May 1
were olS,710.S-". On June 30, 1915,
the total deposit were 1309.947.16.
making an Increase in ten months of
?202,TI3.8.
A
VIOLENT EARTHQUAKE
SHAKES IDAHO CAPITAL
tY MONIM JOURNAL aPfCIAl L( AMD Wl-tl
Boise, Idaho. May 12. -Holm ex
perienced early tonight the most vio
lent earthquake shock In the history
of the city. The tremor which oc
curred at 7:2(1 lusted about three sec
onds und wa more in tho nature of
an upheaval than a wave. In the
downtown district people rushed from
the buildings to tho street.
Tonight' trembler wua the second
in a fortnight, the first having been
recorded on April 30.
At Wctser, sixty miles west, the
Quake was felt with exceptional vio
lence. A new gas well, in which a
flow was struck ten days ago, allotted!
remarkable increase of pressure im
mediately ufter the shake. Tho flow
caught fire tonight and hundreds of
people watched the shooting flames.
In liolse several brick chimney
were wrecked. The tremor wan not
fell to the east of liolse, Twenty
five miles north, at Emmet, tho
ciuako wus violent and alarmed the
inhabitants. Nanipa. to the south,
also felt the shake, as did Idaho City,
thirty-six miles north. Window
ruttled nt Tayetle.
QUAKE IS ALSO
KELT l MONTANA
Anaconda, Mont., May 12. An
earthquake distinctly fell here at
7:30 o'clock, tonight, Buildings In
tho business district were shaken but
no damage was done.
Inspiring Scene Presented at
Railroad Station as Com
pany K Entrains for Ser
vice on Mexican Border,
-CIAL COHHOMOC TO MOSNINg JOUKNAL)
Clovis, N. M., May 12. With two
bands playing patriotic airs and with
the largest part of the population of
Clovla on hand to say farewell and
bid them God speed, Company K, New!
Mexico national guard, located here,
departed yesterday afternoon nt 4:30
o'clock for Columbus, X. M., for pa
trol duly on the lyjrdor, and it may
be that some of thm at least, in tho
event of war with Mexico, by volun-
teerlng In the regular army, to rhase
Mexicans through the land of cactus,
chili con came and frijoles south of
the Rio Grande.
It could not bo determined, unless
a vote were taken oil the question, If
the people of Clovls believe in pre
paredness or not. Hut in yesterday's
demonstration there was nothing to.
Indicate that our people are opposed
to war. Our boys were going to the
front and our people turned out in a
body to see them off. of course, it
may be merely a frolic on which they
have embarked, und then, again, it is;
possible that a hard campaign con
fronts them. Some of them may give
up their lives for their country, and
... . ,
nobody knows what the future has In I
OLOVIS CITIZENS
GIVE GUARDSMEN
GREAT SEND-OFF
store for them. But as the boy!r0. ,. Fraijo. commander of th:
marched bravely down the street yes-i
....,1 ..III. V- r. r. A ll,-
. , v 1 i i -...1
rSmaerum the"11 Ml a I,rldp ,n l"!ln bl' " r'"-kt ! Mexico, if he would become a Mexl
;t made further I a" l'fffritr, Miiiiill though it was, fori can citizen. Herron says he ref used,
This however lthu defense of our country. ,'i'hls Calles denies flatly, saying that
. . , ,. . i
Orators Bid God SMed.
With the company drawn up In
line on the depot platform Judge G.
A. Richardson of Roswell, who Is here
holding court, and Sam Brutton of
Clovis, addressed the boys and as
sured them that they went forth fol
lowed by the well wishes and prayers
of every citizen of Clovis, who, if
need be, would follow them onto Mex
ican battlefields In order that the In
sults to the stars and stripes and the
taking of American lives by bandit
band, might be a'enged.
There were in the crowd yesterday
I assembled to see the soldiers depart
for the front gray haired fathers who,
perhaps in the years gone by, wear
ing either the blue or tho gray, had
themselves marched forth to battle;
there were mothers whose appearance
Indicated that they had ulmost reach-
ed the evening of life, who, years ago, i
had witnessed a similar scene when
lllisuniiu, illiiiin-i 1,1 nftl-l-uii-uu ,l,iu,
harkened to his country' call; there!
were wives, sister nnd, in some in-
Tt. .. ..I,. I T l.,UtnJ l i
tiuuira, Mir ii. , i.-.i ueuinu III--.
Ana, wnjie the parting was nard, and!
there was many a tear-dlmmed eye !
in tho crowd, they all seemed to think brought to a close today the twelfth 1 wo will agree on a report and that
that as duty had called the boys toianllUM meeting of tho .National As-j the agreement will come tomorrow,"
the front. It w.'is only fitting that they j j.oj.jtiuf, for the Study und I'reven-j wid Senator Chamberlain tonight,
should make some sacrifice, If" need j ,jn 0f Tuberculosis. Dr. Kdwm It. "Thf-rn are still some points of Ini
tio, In order that the cull might bena,jwjn of Saiamio. Lake, X. Y., aa I poi tance in dispute, but It look now
answered.
Mcnilx-ri of CniMiny.
The members of Company K who! a. Miller of New York, vice presl
departed today are; Captain, Perry j dents. j
Keown; second lieutenant, John C, ! Today'd discusslonn drew epei t op- j
luik,iii; quiiiier niu-u-r niTgeani, -.iinion on clinical, putnojogicul and
A. Nichols; sergeants, Forrest Long, F,,ei0lc.gical aspects of tuberculoslg.
Ixiuts Thomas and William F. Beck; D;1Knoi,s of tuberculosis bv X-iays
corporals, Charles Davenport and .
v. uei-K; cook, uarry scir; musician,
Paul CJore; private?, It(,li(;rt Anderson,
Harry B. Byard. I-o ITooley, Altus L.
Crossland, Charlie Q Dover, K.
Fitzhugh, Thomas B. Fenner, Uhl .1.
Floyd, Henry H. llufr. Thomas J.
Jones, Irf-Hliw K. Mills, Hugo Marelc,
b:rl McDjnuld, Aaron Sadler. Karl
H. Slaughlerbeck, Robert A. Stubhs,
William Shannon, Ralph Boylcs and
Charlie B- Wilson.
First Lieutenant Hobart R. Miller
did not accompany tli boys, he being
detailed on duty hare fur the present
in charge of the recruiting station.
The car containing the Clovis com
pany was attacked to a special train
bearing the Carlsbad, A.rtesUt and
1'ortale compaoiei),
MEXICAN TROOPS
BELIEVED TO BE
E
About 2,000 Cat rancistas
Reported as Marching to
Fronteras, Tweifly -nine
Miles From Douglas.
MINING MEN PREPARE
TO LEAVE MEXICO
Employes, Alarmed by Press
Repoits, Pack Up Belong
ings in Expectation of
Warning From Consul,
Douglas, Am.., May 12. Arrival
today from Naco 8y that word was
received there from Canaliea that ap
proximately 2.000 de facto Mexican
Infantry had reached there Thursday
1IG TOWARD
AMERICAN IN
froin the west on special trains, incir.cd states district court at Kansas
destination was not divulged but It! City, involving $lo,S4 7 and growing
wiib currently rumored around Can -
unea that they were to go to Del Rio,
and detrain there to inarch overland J
to the concentration camp nt Fron-
terns, twenty-nine miles south f
Donzlu.
Although prepared by press reports
for a warning to leave Mexico, Amer-
lean mimng men In the section of Ho-, llOH Angeles, Callf .May IS. Fraiik Thm wa no evidence amon ad
nora south or here received no such, jnney, manager of the Ctah Cop- mMMrntim offhdals of greutW In
word today from Consul Hmpich, prr company and an associate of D. C. ; .rjaH.d Ponci,ril OVer the events nt th
upon whom the duly wou d devolve. jilc,K of Han Francisco In mining . hord nm, Jn Ml.xloo, Pr,,gdent WH
Arrlvals from Nacowirl today r port-, enterprises, died here today following ,. , , . .uk.nii
"
e,i that many of the employes there
have packed such portions of their
possessions as they wish to bring with
jlhem should a warning come, ns they
expect within tho next few days.
No Cattle Near Dorder.
As a result of a dispute carried on
through the newspaper of Douglas,;
between Jim Herron, an American
cattleman who on Thursday uight
smuggled fiOlt head of cattle across
the border from Konora, and Gon. P.
Fllos fallen, military governor of the
suite, General Olles Issued an arbi
trary order tonight that no cattl"
j should be brought nearer than fifteen
miles .if the international boundary.
Whenever cattle enter this zone
their owners must first ha obtained
it special permit from the authorities
and soldiers must accompany tho cut
tle, the order says. ,
Callcs Threaten f oreigners.
Calles, after declaring that the only
persons who have violated his coiifi-
: dence and smuggled uny cattle have
been Americans, threatens nil for
elgners who may attempt similar ae-i
tlvities in the future with the amo
punishments thnt would be given
Mexican citizens,
Iii-.. .loiivi.. IIimI I'lllluU Olll'lt li ni I
,r""" """ --..--
a wnuen ugiec nent a y.: .. "J"
uort z.uua cuuie in uerus u, i
, . .. .i. ,
the rate of $5 per head. Ho a.vsthat
vam n Auga I'rleta, inomised him
UI.. I., ..U l n
... m . . ....- i -
. . .
! he cannot issiio such a permit wllhoul
the authorization of Vcnustiano Car
ranza, which has never been given.
Tn Sun fill' Ollth'H.
Alter a conference between Herron -'i'- ostein provided In the senate bill j
and Ives G. Irf-lovler, Mexican consul, I"- ht 11 lllhl '"' expanded to 218,
nt which the two were unable to agree 000 men In an emergency. The nu-)
on terms of settlement, Calles issued I tiopal guurd would aggregate lOU.OlMt j
his order, while Lelevi.-r said that lie;""'", r.-iioiieu io uiKe ail oniu oi ui
wa having an attorney prepare pa- j h'giauee to the national government
peis in a suit to be filed in the fed-ja-nd to bo given reprcHi nUitlon on the
oral court, seeking to attach the cat- Bencral staff of the army. The house
tie and recover the amount of the j amendment to the government nitrate
duty alleged to be due the Mexican plant section of the senate hill has
government. j -wn accepted.
The cattle ure In the hands of the While there ure many details to he
federal officials here and will prob worked out tomorrow, th- tentative
ably be released to lli-rron, after ! agreements tonight prompted several
proper inspection, although he may j of the conferees tn predict that corn
have to pay a heavy fine for his pleto ugl -cement and announcement of
breach of the rules governing impor- the result could eb made tomorrow.
tat ion.
A TLT 1 RFRCI 1 1 OS IS
MEETING ADJOURNS
,.y monmMa jouhnai -teiA(. ICA-IO WIKfj
Washington
,,iru;.rH an,
May 12. Election of
ei.-tk.nal (iim-uselons
chosen president, and Dr. W- H. Hani-las
f kin of Raleigh, .N". C. and Dr. James -
has been universally successful in the
opinion of thoso who discussed it l
(,, , j i I section, Although Us
U alue depends largely on Its use in
connection with other means of diag
nosis. An address nv Joan Andrews, sec
rotary of the American Association i
lor uibor legislation, featured a
meeting of the, sociological Meet ion.
He predicted early adoption ill the
United Slates fny compulsory health
Insurance similar to thnt in effect In
L'uropoan countries. Dr. Charles J.
Haifa I.l of Washington, at the same
meeting, urged that industrial towns
and cities be urged to organize work
ing meii and women in the campaign
against tuberculosis. Medical exam
ination of employes was advocated
Crimes of Modem
Bluebeard Exposed
! HOnita JOURNAL MCIAL UAtlo IHI
Ituda I'cst, May 12 (via London,
4 p. m.) Further official Investiga
tion into the rase of the modern Blue
beard in the village of Cinkota who,
it develops, was known as Beta Kiss,
shows that the man has made a prac
tice for years, according to tho police,
of d"coylng women by marriage ad
vertisements, obtaining their money
on marriage promises and then mur
dering them.
The police have a record of eight
een women wlin whom Kiss at vari
ous tlmcri atjsorlatid, eight of whom
have long been reported us missing,
while the ten others have not yet been
found. In the homo he had occupied
were discovered packaged of love Ut
tei from all parts of the world. In
cluding the Cnited Ht.ttes. Four of
tho seven sealed leaden eases found In
Ihe dwelling were open, Tlv con
tained the bodies of strangled women,
while in the fourth were seven Wom
en' dresses, line was Identified, as
belonging to a young woman who
had been missing for ti'ii years.
There appears to be no doubt that
Kiss died at Valjevo. Serbia, as pre
viously reported. Although he rarely
worked, he spent, money so generous
ly that he was known as the "Ameri
can uncle."
by Dr. Hurry K. Mock of Chicago, as
InsurancB for corporations that em
ploy large numbers of men and
women.
Dig Suit DlsnuWd.
Denver, .May 12. Hull In the L'nlt-
1 out of the sale of Buffalo Bill's Wild
West and Pawnee Bill's Far Kust
shows, wuh dismissed today, accord -
iuK , a private telegram from Kansas
fiiy. n was wild a settlement had
been leached out of court.
Coius r Magnate Dies,
r l"",i'""'. '" ie ,ua son left this afternoon for a weeK.
nn 0.riltlou for ap,en,llcltis. lie wasltHp rtow le Chesapeako bay on
iflfty yPilrs olll. tMl. janm,y,, home ' nnvul ,,aoht Muyf lower. Becr
was here, although much of his time
was spent, in Salt Lake City.
TO
BILL, IS BELIEF
DeadlOCk Between Senate and
HOLISe at tO MeaSUre tOr
National Defense Will Prob
ably Be Broken Today,
W'ujtiiing-ton, May 1 2. ABrr?mnt
I Of Hiii, Mfmfttt- nti.l liniiKf r-iinfirif
nrniv n-oruHnlziit Inn til 1 1 im vx
pected to be reached tomorrow an
we cull, lllii ice llillljoa uiueieu n len -
, ,,.,, ... ,, r. .
, i. .,..... . i..u. 4 .. .
.... , , .
seclloiis still left oin disputr
A dead-
. .
'oik was in pinspni
'"'A wild ill 'i"n rr, i . r-- " , " .
fcrenct) wus calm und r.suib cume
.
i 4 K
' r
as could be learned tonight !
ra"lM ,-...,- I.. l.r. I 1.1- I
h""i ,,, ,, ,. v, j
the conference bill would aggregate
175,000 fighting men in lime of peace
organized m accordance with the eiu.
d lii the senate i.jll
j Tho senate federal volunteer army
!ilan has been aliaiidoned but there is
it ii-niuiive agreement, to ainenii ine
scetlon .-.ut horizing iiiililsry Instruc
tion camps for volunteer citizens so as
to provide that citizens shall he paid
at the rate of pay for enlisted men
wnite ncuiftliy in naming.
"' think It, can safely be said that
though we have finished fighting
and ate ready to finish the work."
Verbal Will Probated.
Santa Fe, May 12. -Rather unus
ual was tho procedure In probate
court today accept inr the verbal will
Of Mr. Frank It. Plomteaux. Mis.
Plomteaux, who died after a long ill
ness with pneumonia, when he felt
death nigh, sent for Aitorn-y fl. M.
Rend to draft h written will. The.at-
AGREE ON ARMY
!torn.-v was unable to come, and In thej"'"'" "m'i. "".. ".-..-. i
! presence of Prohat- .lo.l C-nuto At- to suggest a disposition of
!nrM Un.l Cdv r-ln.-k Hcn.v Ab.rld. -he troops ill view of what had been
she be(Oentiied verbally on.-half of
her estate to her husband, Frank R.
Plomteaux, ami tho other half to a
niece. The estate consists mostly of
a large adobe house valued at fii.eOO
and furniture and furnishings.
Shopmen -t Increase.
l.aramle, Wyo., May 12. About
150 shoprnpn hero are affected by
the Increase of 5 per cent in pay an.
nounced by the Union Pacific rail
road today.
WASHINGTON IS
SHOWING LITTLE
GONGERN OVER
BORDER TANGLE
President and Secretary Ba
ker Leave for Week-end
Tiip; Lansing and Arredon
do Do Not Confer,
PERSHING WILL REMAIN
PENDING DEVELOPMENTS
Mobilization of Militia ; From
Border States and Strength
ening of Regular Patrol
Continue,
IKV MOUSING JOUHHAk SPtctAl LtABt
Washington, May 12. Fallur of
the military conference at Kl Pao to
reach a definite agreement has
brought no change in tho policy to
ward Mexico of the Washington ftd
ministration.
President Wilson and hi cabinet
discussed General Scott' report n
nounrlng that tho question at issua
j had been referred back by the con
ferees to their respective govern
j meats for diplomatic discussion, Iitcr
It was officially stated that the sltua
i tion was unchanged.
UUI. Increase.! (Vmovni.
j omi irti, (.inn ai i"'vu
th
yacht Mayflower. Seorntary
Baker took a train for Atlantic City
and Newark, N. J,, and will not return
until Sunday.
The text of General, Heott' report
of his final discussion ha not been
made public. There are. Indication,
however, that he arrived at aotnethlnir
in the nature of a gentleman' under
standing with the Mexican war min
ister, though it possibly had no mora
definite form than a atatement by
teach side of what step- It purjosed
taking toward checking ruldlng along
the Texas border, renewed with th
attack at Olonft Bprings.
Pershing to Remain. .
Pending new ordsrs from the pres
ident, it wan made tilaln at tho war
department today that General Per-
sning expennion wouia remain in
Mexico watching; developments be
yond the border. Meanwhile, mobili
zation of national guardmon from
the border stnteg and of additional
regulars to strengthen the border pa
trol at points along the 1,800 mllo
stretch not protected hy the expedi
tion, continues. Should raiding be re
newed additional state troops will b
called out for border duty, and wher-
,j lever the bandit leav a hot trail tho
(Himy Will IHH lirniiwa III iuibw: u i
i
t In Mexico.
i An indieallon of the attitude of
sumo members of . or-ere-i townrd the
f :i.;i"-il nm of (ii-ti.-i-.i! I 'in ran?.,, that
thn American expedition be reculicj,
tamo In the senate today when Sena
tor Lewi declared he believed the
majority of tho senate would never
, .. , . ,. . i ......... t I V. ,..,
""r'u V
f ' AnJ"k'an" hm be0n pUV:
""f- T -"'"' ',M P"k 'n
, " , " ""
yon, nun notning uuequaio was ou
ing done to safeguard the soldier
liow In Mexico. Senator Ix'wls de
clared every possible precaution wua
bdng takon by tho war department.'
Diplomats Remain Inactive.
Neither Secretary Lansing nor F.ll
neo Arredondo, Carranza umbussador
designate, took any atcp during tho
day toward renewing diplomatic dis
cussion of tho points that arose dur
ing Him military conference. Mr. Ar
redondo wan awaiting Instructions
from his government. Secretary Iin
slng will dlseitH.it matters with Gen
eral Scott on his return next Week bo-,
foro taking up informal communica
tions with the Mexican ambassador.
There was nothing to indicate any de
blre to press mntters on either aide.
War department officials laid
stress on the fact thut General Fun
ston's orders were unchanged. While
General Per.shlng is concentrating his
forcea along a shortened line. It wa
stated positively that he would hurry
south again immediately If he re
ceived Information that Villa or any
considerable, number of hia land had
gathered at a point within striking
distance.
General rerhtng. it. was stated,
kept going as lonp: us be huJ a. hot
trail to follow. For days there haa
been no mention of Villa's nnme In
official dispatches und officials-hr
and at the border do not know Ids
whereo bouts or even whether he la
still alive. It wus this situation, it
was declared, aa will u the increas
ing danger of chiHhcn with the Mexi
can population as the scattered chase
''eomplisli.-d towards dispersing the
bandit.
i Tho most advanced post Of the es
Ipedltlon Is 111 the legion of San An
tonio, 216 miles south of the border.
Hi'ason for Concentration.
The concentration now in progress
mils made necessury in part by tho
approach of the rainy fleaaon and thei
Increased difficulties that are to bo
expected in carrying; to tha front tha
va.t quantity of auppliva needed for .
the troops. The guaricrixuMtcr'a do
