. Social
HE HAY
4 E JJt A 1 A
I JJ W J J srl vr n
21 iTlLii
VOL. XXXVI. NO 25
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY. KANSAS, MAY 13, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $150 PER YEAR
I
I
k
--2
i
marit
dont be blinrt
You can
figure out
the future'
wHhout a
Banff
Account
Put your money in this bank and grow with us, and make it your
bank.
Money grows in the bank, and the more money deposited the bigger
the bank grows. Don't feel that you haven't enough money to become
inrerested in this institution.
We solicit your patronage, even though you must start with very lit
tle. The small beginning receives the same attention and courtesy as
the larger one. Interest paid on savings.
Citizens State Bank
C. G. COCRAN. President
A. F. COCHRAN. Vice President
P. J. DEANE. Vicc-Presidknt
C W. MILLER. Jr.. Cashier
CHAS. C STAAB.Ass r. Cashier
HAYS CITY. KANSAS
CAPITAL S50.000
SURPLUS $15,000
HAYS, KANSAS
LOVELY
WftSHABLES
id KSftr Q ZXJ J
All white goods sold at the same price are
not the same QUALITY. Ours will stand the
strain of the wash-tub altho they possess the
daintyness you desire. Our "lines" of wash
goods and white goods, both made-up and in
bolt satisfy. CORSETS! We have those which
give you comfort and a perfect figure.
HOSIERY The best money can buy. Childrens 10, 5 and 25 cents.
Ladies, 10, 12, 15, 25 and 50 cents. Mens, 10, 12, 15, 25 and 50 cents.
FANCY RIBBONS These are what the girls like, at 25, 35 and 40 cts.
SCRIMS We just received a lot of fancy, scrims at 10, 15, 25 and 35
cents. Come in and see them, they are just what you want.
WAISTS Did you see them, those fancy China silk waists only $1.25.
. Everything to Eat and Wear
H. A. NICKLES, Hays. Kansas
See or phone Miller Brothers for your
Hail Insurance. They represent the
Strongest Companies in AMERICA.
When you have a Policy in,one of t he
Companies you have a policy that pays
you ONE HUNDRED CENTS on the
DOLLAR. Phone 47.
Miller Brothers, Hays, Kansas.
Next Sunday evening Rev. A. S. Hale
preaches the Class Sermon at Bunker
Hill and on the following Wednesday he
makes the Graduating Address at Oak
ley. He has had a number of other
calls but would only accept these two.
The Ellis County Normal Institute
will hold a month's session at the Fort
Hays State Normal School, beginning
on Monday, May 29, 1916.
C. W. Miller can sell you as fine a
quarter section of land in Smoky Hill
Township as you ever struck and about
your own terms. Come in and let's
talk it over.
Miss Maggie Broomfield spent Sat
urday afternoon with her uncle and
aunt, Mr. and Mrs. H. Chittenden.
You should see the "Country Kid" ;
at New Opera House May 17. j
May, 13th, 1916,
Mr. Farmer:
The HAIL SEASON, which is again approaching,
reminds us of the disastrous year of 1915, when
more than $125,000.00 was paid out in HAIL losses
to our customers. A small premium protected many
farmers-who could not afford to stand the loss of
a crop which would have been disastrous to them in
a financial way.
We have no assurance what the year 1916will
bring to us but it has been demonstrated a number
of times, that the farmer with a promising crop
cannot afford to carry his own risk.
We are writing for the same Old Line . Companies
that gave such universal satisfaction last year,
making adjustments promptly and paying their los
ses dollar for dollar. THE CITIZENS , STATE BANK
will devote all the time necessary throughout the
hail season in giving prompt and efficient service
in looking after the interests of their customers .
Should the present splendid prospects continue
it will behoove every farmer in the County to
spend a small amount in protecting his growing
crop. The .rate for Ellis County this year will be
eight per cent in all Old Line Companies, and
from the present indications we expect one of the
best Hail Writing Seasons we have ever had. We
shall be pleased to write your policy and will
appreciate the business.
Trusting that Ellis County will pour forth one
of its most bounteous wheat crops and that we may
have the privilege of protecting same for you with
a Hail Policy in one of our Companies, we are
Very truly yours,
CITIZENS STATE BANK.
By A. ;F. COCHRAN, Vice Pres.
Hon. Henrv Sutor of Palco, former
member of the legislature from Rooks
county, and owner of one of the largest
ranches of high bred stock in Western
Kansas, wa3 a Hays visitor Tuesday of
last week. He was interested in the
stock at the Experiment Station.
Don't miss the "Country Kid" at
the New Opera House May 17.
It pays to write your Hail Insurance
with Miller Brothers. They represent
the Strongest Companies in the
rWORLD, and when you have a loss
ther are always on the job to look for
your interest. Don't wait until it is
too late. Phone or see them today.
Phone 47. Miller Brothers,
Hays, Kansas.
The Hays Chautauqua begins June
29th. The things that stand out with
unusual prominence are the big four in
companies: Schildkret's Hnngarian
Orchestra, The Splendid Haydn Chorus,
Thaviu's Band and Grand Opera Sing
ers, Ten New York Players in the
Melting Pot. The Big Four in Lec
turersEx Congressman J. Adam
Bede, Governor Robert B. Glenn, Dr.
Benjamin S. Haywood, M. D. Hardin.
And besides all these five other com
panies and seven or eight most inter
esting lecturers and entertainers. Keep
the date in mind.
Hail I
nsurance
To Whom it May Concern:
We, the undersigned, heartily recommend J. M. Schaefer of Hays, Kansas, to all those intend
ing to insure their growing wheat against Hail storms this season. Mr. Schaefer has demonstrated
to us last season that the business entrusted to his care will be honestly looked after. The compa
nies represented by him have treated their customers on the square in regard to adjustments and
prompt payment of losses. In making this statement voluntary, we feel that we sre not only giving
credit where credit is due, but also in justice toour brother farmers who are looking for a safe place
to do business. -
D. F. McCarty,
Jce Bahl,
Peter J. Staab,
F. Schcendollar
and 48 others.
575
523
140
1856
John F. Weigel, loss paid ... 52800
John Seitz, " " 100
James Ross, " " 511
Henry Gottschalk " " 312
CarlWerth. " " 455
MR. FARMER:
I submit the above statement for your consideration before placing your insurance this year.
The Alminac predicts severe hail storms in 1916. Are you prepared? In 1915 we paid more than
50 claims for losses. The smallest was for $100; the largest for $2800, and not one dissatisfied cus
tomer. We have established a record for prompt payment of Icsses in 1915, why not place your
business with us this year? Don't let the other fellow talk you into insuring with an Irresponsible
Company but see us NOW. What is worth doing at all is worth doing quickly.
Our Patrons are Our Best Recommendation
Yours for business, - '
J. M. SCHAEFER.
P. S. We will write your Hail , business at cash rates, without interest Our losses will be
adjusted again by our own men, payment being made in the field on 'day of adjustment Does this
sound rjght to you? -
Chas. Staab had an operation per
formed Saturday, on his throat for the
removal of his tonsils, at the Hays Hos
pital. Fr. Joseph Wasinger, a recently or
dained priest, of the Catholic church
said his first Mass, Wednesday, May
10th at Catherine.
Mrs. Win. Hollenbeck and children
of Idaho, who have been visiting with
friends here for a few days, left for
her home on Wednesday evening.
Mrs.'Lucile Miles died Thursday, May
11th, in giving birth to her first child.
The doctors did all in their power to
save her, even resorting to a Caesarean
operation, but to no avail. Funeral
occurred this Saturday afternoon, Rev.
Hale officiating. She wa3 born in
Cheyenne Wells, Colo., May 14, 1895.
Was married to George Miles in 1914.
Have been residents of Hays about two
years. Her many friends will mourn
her loss. The young husband has the
sympathy of the community.
"Modern Methods" a monthly maga
zine ha3 this to say with reference to
the matter of credits in business: Whs n
a man goes to the bank to borrow
money it is a serious business with him.
He remembers that loan and plans
everything toward getting it paid off
as soon as possible; but when he opens
an account with a retail store his atti
tude is entirely different. He believes
that the store can and ought to wait
for its money until he is good and
ready to pay. If the merchant makes
an endeavor to collect, the customer i3
indignant, regarding it a3 an unwar
rantable impertinence on the part of
the tradesman. "Yet the principle is
exactly the same. 1 When you open an
account with a retail store you simnlv
borrow a certain amount of that store's
capital for a period of time which is
longer or shorter, the only difference
being that in most cases the store does
not charge any interest. The merchant
usually is compelled to pay his accounts
in from thirty to sixty days and often
is compelled to wait on his customer
for a year or two thus, in many cases
working a hardship upon the merchant.
He should . not then be blamed for
making an effort to collect by sending
out statements to "his customers. It
should be remembered that the mer
chant receives in like manner a verv
polite statement that his account is
due and payment must be made by a
certain date or draft for the amount
will be made upon him. Therefore,
treat the merchant right in these mat
ters as he is entitled to his money after
a certain period of waiting, sometimes
a long period which taxes his financial
resources. Also remember that your's
is not the only account he is compelled
to carry. Also remember that the
merchant who has carried your account
for a considerable period 13 entitled to
your cash trade ; when you havs the
Final Tax Sale Notice.
Office of Ellis County Treasurer.
Hays City, Kansas, May 12, 1916
Notice is hereby given that the lands
and town lots, situated in the County of
Ellis and State of Kansas, were sold
for the taxes on the 2nd day of Septem
ber 1913. The three years allowed by
the law for redemptiou of same will ex
pire on the 2nd of September 1916, and
unless redeemed on or before the day
aforesaid, will be conveyed to the hold
er of tax sale certificate by tax deed.
The amount of taxes, interest and
charges to the last day of redemption
being on the 5th day of September
1916, due on each parcel is set forth
opposite each tract respectively
J. E. Wilson Addition to Hays, Kansas.
Byers, Jessie, Lots 1-3-5-11-17, Block
18, - $26.61
Omitted from final notice, April 12,
1916.
Witness my hand and official seal thi3
12th day of May A. D. 1916.
Fred N. Dreilng,
Treasurer Ellis County, Kansas.
Mrs. C. W. Reeder went to Wichita,
Monday morning, to attend a meeting
of the Eastern Star, Thursday and Fri
day, May 11 and 12.
Miss Jessie Gosser entertained the
members of the Senior High school
class Sunday at dinner. The young
people report a delightful time.
Mrs. Retta Freese Ingram and family
of California visited in Kansas City this
week and reach Hays thi3 Friday even
ing for a two weeks visit.
Rev. A. S. Hale, of the First M. E.
church of Hay3, will deliver the Eighth
grade commencement address on Wed
nesday evening, May 17th. Oakley
Graphic.
Mrs. Dr. Snyder met with a slight
accident last Wednesday by falling
from a high stool. The Doctor says
it's only a matter of a few days until
she will be all right again.
Mrs. J. H. Irwin who attended the
Sunday School Convention at Wichita,
last week, as delegate from the M. E.
church of this city, is visiting her
parents in Kingman county, this week.
Mrs. Goodall left for Harrisburg,
Penn., Thursday, for an extended
visit with relatives sisters and broth
ers. Mrs. Hubbard, her daughter, who
lives in Kansas City, accompanied her.
Frank Howie received a telegram
Monday morning, from his daughter,
Mrs. Hazel Howie Gillilan, of Monti
cello, Iowa, that her husband was ser
iously ill. Mrs. Howie and daughter,'
Ethel, left for Monticello, Tuesday!
night. '
If some of those people in Hays who '
were offered land in Nes3 county, at a
nominal price, had purchased a tract
each, they would have made a hat foil
of money and it is now being taken at
twice the price asked then and the land
mia down there are making a "kill-
TEE GENEALOGY OF THE DOLLAR BEGffiS
WITH THE PENNY.
If you would produce the dollar, foster
the penny. The bank is the only busi
ness that asks you to save your money.
All other lines want you to spend it.
Start to-day with a few dollars and get a
new pass book and watch it grow.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
HAYS, KANSAS
The Thought of Getting Ahead
of nccumulating enough for a home or
for some other special purpose confronts
every ambitious man or woman at some
point along the road of life. No other
plan for saving the odd ends of one's in
come is so definite, so safe, yet so adapt
able to varying conditions as our bank
account plan. Come in and let us ex
plain to you the simple details of this
plan and why its use will enable you to
accumulate faster.
FARMERS STATE BANK
WALKER, KANSAS
MOTOR. CAE!
'.ft.b.Factroy
Fred N.-Dreilirig
HAYS,
KANSAS
GRADUATION
AT MARK WELL'S
GIFTS
We have a variety of useful and beautiful gifts, suitable
for graduation. Up-to-date fiction, (all the best sellers)
Beautiful Gift Books, Leather Bound Memory books, Bibles, Standard
Poets, Popular copywright fiction. Leather goods. Parses, Music rolls,
Toilet sets, Manicure sets. Fine stationery. Pillow covers, Pennants,
Tennis rackets, Sheaffer's self-filling, non-leakable fountain pens and
Waterman's Ideal fountain pern). Come in and see our goods and prices.
- R. S. MARKWELL, Hays, Kansas.
ELGIN and VALTflAH WATCHES
April 22 to 29, 1916
Special Bargains in Your Spring
$ TIMEPIECE
. Come in and let us show them to you
We can Save You Money . . .
... Look over our Entire Line
J. T. MORRISON, Jeweler z Optometrist
Citizens Bank Building, Phone 152, nays, Kzusu.
! cash to s-oend. -
