WEATHER
MARKE 76
MEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop.
per for week ending
May 10, 29.
ARIZONA Generaly
fair.
Associated Press Special Leas ed Wire Service.
VOL 18, No. 300.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, MAY 13, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
U 1 il
am jw
t
c -
BRITISH SUE;
TO RECOVER f
STEAMER . i
lis
t. mnmi
-
Ownership of Vessel Brought
to Norfolk As German Prize
Will Be Decided In U.S.
District Court.
LANSING'S LETTER
USED AS EVIDENCE'
i
U. S. Treaty Protects Prize!
Only When Warship Ac-!
companies It, English Say. j
Technicalities Enter.
(By Review Leased Wire
NORFOLK, Va.. May 12. British
owners of the Cermon prize f hip Ap
pam began their efTort to recover pos- i
session of the vessel in federal court
here today with the submission of a
letter from Secretary Lan.sing to the
German ambassador expressing the I
opinion that the Appam did not fall I
under the protecting clause of the
Prussian-American treaty. .
The secretary's letter, holding to a
view opposite to that which it had
teen understood was entertained by
the S'ate Department, was admitted
i:: evidence by Judge Waddill over the
protest of attorneys for the German
'government and Lieut. Hans Berg, the
prize co:uir.ander. joint defendants in
the owners libW suit. Preliminary
briefs have indicated that the Gentian
case would be built largely upon the
treaty provision referred to in the
leuer.
Three officers of the Appani's Brit
ish crew, her master, first officer and
chief engineer testified at today's hear
lig as to the ships position when cap
tured by the raider Woeve, the plac
ing of bombs aboard the ship by the
priz crew to prevent mutiny and the
removal of bullion from her cargo,
Secretary Lansing in the letter in-j
corporated in the trial record today,
made the point that the Appam came i
into Hampton Roads, not in custody
o fa German warship, but purely as a
niercimm prize ana mone. I ne
".an-A-nerican treaty, he held extend-1
ed protecuon to a prize only when i
convoyed into port by a war vessel.1
It was pointed out, however, that this 1
was a legal question that should beadmjt the ,ogs of tne p08Ulon but Bay
',n u" u' LUUI1- a,,u ,rl,rr;that part of them were re-taken in a
was introduced, attorneys said, as . countpr attack
evidence in the nature of expert testi-, rUn declares that In tbeir de
mcny. It was understood tonight that fenge of lhe trenches and especially
the German ambassador's reply com- j ,atPr , the counter attack, the Brit
batting the position of Secretary Lan- j lsh guffere(j neaVy casualties and in
sing will be submitted to court later adaition iost men taken prisoners and
ty the German counsel, and that a re-1 severai machine guns captured,
joinder from the Secretary might also j Aronn(, Verdun the French 'on the
be put into evidence.
Position Disputed
The Apra m's position when captur
ed was given by her officers today as
ebout 100 miles from the point given
by Lieut. Berg. The owners say she
tfas about 1500 miles nearer Kmden
than Norfolk, and that her captors
were bound by international law to
take her into the German port rather
than across the Atlantic.
15,000 MEXICANS
SEEN WITHIN DAY'S
MARCH OF DOUGLAS
Douglas Man Says 3500
lieved Adequate Protection
for Smelter City.
That there are some 15.000 Mexican
de facto trjops within a day's march j
or Douglas, was the statement made
by X. A. Patterson, part owner of the
u .. i tv J. .
., .ir..,, .r-u ",r'u- . , '
.l,ln,!.,u.r -u. w
learn exactly how many men were
mpssed below the line.
Of th' army, a large, portion is
fount ed and there are a number of
field pieces, with a range of several
miles. None of these, have been
brought to the border, however, and
the alarms recently eminating from
the Smelter City are declared by Pat
terson to be to a large extent exag
gerations.
Tho American forces romnose an- '
proximately 2500 regulars of al)
branches of the service, with wireless
apparatus, hospital and supply trains,
signal corps detachment. In fact a
ro-rplete little army in itself. The
Arizona guards were arriving yester
day also, which, would Increase the
American force by upwards of a 1000
men.
rouglas seems to feel reasonably i ent owner and publisher of the Ogden
secure, with her protection, according Standard and a candidate for conaress
to Patterson, and Is continuing her on the republican ticket, died suddea
rersulnr business bent as though noth-1 ly tonight from rheumatism of the
ing abnormal were occurring. heart.
ALASKA FLYING MAIL.
.WASHINGTON'. May 12 Op
'eng of bids today at post
office department for aeroplane
mail service on seven routes
in Alaska and one in Massa
chusetts, developed but -a, one
bidder.
1). L. Byers, of Alaska, offer
ed, to undertake service for a
year between Seward and An
chorage at distance of 370
miles, for $14,000. The depart
ment will con'sider its accept
ance. RECALLS TEACHERS.
MEXICO CITY, May 12. It
Is reported here that General
Carranza has cabled all the
Mexican teachers now visiting
In the ITnited "States to return
immediately to Mexico. Most
of teachers are said to be in
New England. General Obre
gon, minister of war, is expect
ed to arrive in Mexico City
early Sunday morning.
GERMANS ROUTE
The Germans Launch Offen
sive at English Line Around
Hulloch, Gaining and Loos
ing Part of Trenches.
FRENCH CAPTURE
, POINTS OF VERDUN
Russians Report Progress On
March to Bagdad, Also Re
Pulse of Germans On the
Dvink Sector of Front
(Ey Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON. May 12. Switching their
attack from the Verdun region against
the French, the Germans have begun
a sharp offensive against the British
line around Hullnch.
Preceding their movements with
the usual heavy bombardments, the
BRITISH FROM
. 500. YARD
FROMT
rrus-rj,rmoBa ihH on infantrv attack
, . h nrlt,sh Une , the reKion
f Vermene8 and were successful In
...: is. nh, a
fi'jnt of about 500 yards. The British
left bank of the Meuse have recaptur-
f ..AntoorA niuvlmialv titan
from them southeast of Haucourt by
the Germans. Bombardments are
again taking place In the vicinity of
Le Mort H'omme and Cumieres. and
I the French first and second 'line
trenches on tne ngnt oanic 01 tne
Meuse between the Haudremont wood
and Vaux. A German attack south
east of Fort Douaumont was repulsed.
Germans Repulsed.
Considerable infantry fighting,
which as yet has been without re
sults. Is In progress on the Dvinsk
and Jacobstadt sectors of the Russian
front. Petrograd reports that Ger
man attacks at several points here
and farther south have been repulsed.
Italians Active.
In the Austro-Italian theatre intense
artillery act?jns are ensuing in the
Coldi Lana zone and the Italians have
put down two Autrian attemps at at
tack against captured positions on
Mount Cukla.
Ori Persian Front.
Petrograd reports further progress
f)r u,e Russians flehting against the
Turks near the Persian frontier, with
Bagdad as their objective. Here me!ha!, boen splinted as mustering offic j
Turks attempted to take tne onensive.,pr to a,tend to ,he details of placing
Dt petrograa says tne movement ,hP pardsmen under federal control
was repulsed. Farther norths nearLu v,nl-,
Aschkala. which is situated some
miles west of F.rzerum. the Russians
claim to have made further progress
westward. This, however. Is at vari
ance with the claims "jf Constantin
ople, which says that the Russians,
driven out of their positions at Mount
Kope, west of Erzerum. are making
every effort to maintain themselves
I in' new positions.
tj other leaders in the Irish I
rebellion. James Connolly, known as
commandant-general of the Irish re
public and army, and John MacDer
mott. have been tried by court martial
and shot.
OGDEN EDITOR DIES
' OODEN. Utah.. May 12 William
G'asman. thrlra ravor of Orden. pres
WIVES AND DAUGHTERS OF NOTED MEN ARE "ROOKIES" AT W T
PREPAREDNESS CAMP vH.at y ASi'IFCTON: MRS. LAXSIN'
Top, officers of ramp. Left to right: Miss Vella Poe Wilson, Miss Natalie Lincoln, Jii? i..i-o... ..
t Mary Baker, Miss Anne Tracy and Mrs. H. R Joy. Bottom, "rookies" going through exercise
The wives and daughters of many noted men, including the wife of Secretary of State Lcnsin, ure rook
ies" at the women's preparedness camp near Washington. The ofiicers of the camp are: M'.ss KlizuUth K i-.i ,
Washington, D. C commandant; Miss Vella Poe Wilson, Washington, D. C, adjutant; Miss Natalie Li -i:ii.
Washington, major; Miss Mary Baker, Wildwood, N. J., aide; Miss Anne Tracy. New ork, major; !r.s. U.
B. Joy, Detroit, Mich., aide to chief of staff, and Mrs. B. R. Russell, Washington, D. C, aide.
ALL OF ARIZONA
Regular Officers
Soldiers and
Placing Them
era! Control.
Assist State
Arrange forj
Under Fed-!
(By Review Leased Wire)
DOULAS. May 12 The mobiliza
tion of Arizona national guard be
came a reality today when the vari-'
ImiA nroanivotinna nmnnma (Via ttivcf
Arizona Infantry began arriving in
Douglas. Before daybreak in the
morning, me entire regiment will
have arrived here according to local
advices.
Comnanv M of Morenci. Cantain
Frank Havs. conimandin-jr. reached
here at 5:30 th:s afternoon on a spe
cial train.
Company B of Safford came in an
hour later. Both companies shared
the armory of Company G. the local
organization, the camp site not be'ng
GUARDS REACH
DOUGLAS
entirely ready to receive them in reed. eeord'ne ,n 'he omcers. I2IS.000 men in an emergency. Th
spite of the hard work of squads ofi Te nlot. nerordine to he invest!- naIjonai Kuard would aggregate 400.
the local company during the last two'pntirs.- nr' ifiod for th handine to- 00)) ,npn re(,jr.d to take an oath of
days. " jgether of Mexicans in Texas, Arizona , aieKiance to the national government
The remainder of the regiment will end New Mevlco o throw off "h,;and to be given representation on the
arrive early in the morning in a. spe-YnnVeo ynk " Coloni Luis Morin. Kenera 8faff f the army. The House
cial train. Aboard It will be the com-.
panies from rhoenix. Tucson, Mesa
and other state points.
Bneadier General T. F. Davis, com
manding the Sixth Infantry Brigade ; feHrnl court.
has assigned several officers of his Mi" tan twenty officers have been
command to assist the militiamen in'enrnued jn the invet'iPion and con
their work of organization. Captain sennont nrrosts More irrests will be
Berkeley Enochs, Eleventh Infantrv. !
MAY DEPOSIT MORE
IN POSTAL BANKS
Senate Favors Making Maxi
mum $2000; Also Will Pay
Railways More for Mail.
. (Bv Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. May 12 The con
ference report on the annual post of
fice appropriation bill, containing a
provision rais'pg h maximum of in
dividual postal savings account? to
$2,000 but with the section for more demand for silver threatened to de-. at Hudeon. Wis., ou July 4 Collins
pay to mall carrying railroads on ac- plte thr reserves and that conse- said he would post $5.0t'0 in th morn
pmint nf the n.ircel post eliminated. : enen'lv the action announced was ing as a guarantee, should Willard
was agreed to today by the Senate.
..... ' ' l: v. -r- 1T
UiiEXICAilG ARMY BILL
CONSPIRATORS i IS FAVORED BY
ARRESTED CONFEREES
Federal Officers Round Up
Numerous Persons at Cor
pus Christi, Suspected of Fo
mentir.g Uprising.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CORPUS CHRISTI. Tex.. May 12
Numerous arrests of Mexicans were
made in Kleberg County today by
pgents 01 tne i mien iais nepan-
: nient of Justice. Texss Rangers ar.d
cotmtv officer's in their inveliaation
county onicers. in ineir inve. , i,mo..
of .-n alleged plot for a Mexican up-
! rising in
the southwest.
t. Fourteen
! Mx'c?ins of variohs sections and af-
fillin'ions vrre in ja'l tonight.
Information hat the alleeed upris
ing ws set for May 5, (Cinco de
Mavo) a Me;icin natioinl holiday,
was Inter nostponed to May 10, was
foepH on 1h norson of cveral ar-
sa'd to have he?n n officer in ilia a
tv nnd one of 'he first arrested.
"-i'I be ren"ven 10 an Antonio .
Hv. where be will face charge In thej
made within the next
4S hours, of-
fleers raid
MORATORIUM IS
ORDERED IN CHINA
r.r.n,mAnf Rani-. : Plr,nT
Keruse to Kedeem raper Mt. aro som pjnt of importance
With Geld and Silver. in dispute, but it looks now as though
Jwe have finished fighting and are
fRv Review Leased WirO ready to finish the work."
PFKING. China. May 12. The gov,
eminent has declared a partial mora- WOULD PAY $27,000
totlum annotincin that the Bank of j TO FIGHT WILLARD
CtiniTimnicntions and the Bank of Chi-
-a. hoth government institutions, will
no' "v out deposits and win not re
deem paper -"oney with told er silver,
The mandate states that the great
J HCfC.ssSIJ
I
Agreement Is Expected To
day, Recommending Con
gress Provide 175,000 Reg
ulars and 400,000 Guards.
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. May 12. Agree
ment of the Senate and Houses confer
ence on the army reorganization bill
is expected to be reached tomorrow
and the committee tonight ordered a
j tentative niprt of its report with
tew sections still tell in uispuie. At , " , "
nrosnect after a stor-ib-4, commander, is planning to es-
le"d' - I" .1P k .. Itl ,11. itablish two motor truck relay stations
i- . ,. .
jnoon tl) conrerence 'Was calm.
So far as could be learned tonight
the regular army to be provided by
the conference bill would aggregate
175.000 fighting men in time of peace,
organized in accordance with the
elastic system provided in the Senate
,bil so that it might be expanded to
. an,Pndment to the government ni
; trale piant ,,ectjon of the Senate bill
hBS been accepted.
W!lie tnpre are many minor details
to be worked out tomorrow the ten-
. nive agreements tonight prompted
. s,.Veral of the conferees to predict
, ,naf ,.0mplete agtireement and an-
j nouncenient of the result could be
j made tomorrow. The Senate bill vol-
unteer plan has been abandoned but
t nhere is a tentative agreement
t0l
I amend the section authorizing mill
;tsry instruction camps for volunteer
'citizens so as to provide that citizens
will be paid at the rate of pay of en
listd fen while actually in (raining.
"I think it can be safely said thai
!we will aeree on a report and that a
report will come tomorrow." Senator
- 1 l 1 . : : .1 t 1 1 . . ti.
I CHICAGO. May 12.-Mike
Colllns.
manager of Fred Fulton, said tontgbt
he had wired an offer of $27,000 to
Jesse Willard for a 1 round contest
make a favorable reply.
.3E,HlTS IDAHO
BO. as, O. May 12. Boise
' ux, May 12. I
f. 'v'fc "ly tonight
experie. v' -ly tonight the
most vio. e jliquake shock
in the hisfv jt the city. The.
tremor whicV'occurred at 7:26
laated about three seconds and
wa more in the nature of an
upheaval than a wave. In down
town districts people rushed
from buildings to the street.
No serious damage has been re
ported. Tonight's temblor was the
second in a fortnight, the fir it
having been recorded on April
30.
At Weiser. sixty miles west,
the ouake was felt with excep
tional violence. A new gas
well in which a flow was struck
ten days ago. showed remark
able increase of pressure im
mediately after the shake. The
flow caught fire tonight and
hundreds of people watched the
shooting flames.
In Boise several brick chim
neys were wrecked. The treni
nior was not felt to the east of.
Boise. Twenty-five miles north,
t Kramet, the quake was vio
lent and alarmed the inhabi
tants. Nampa, to the south aNo
felt the shake, as did Idaho
City. 36 miles north. .Windows
rattled at Payette.
t
INTO MEXICO
10 RESCUE
lil
l creased I'jne.ern over the events at
M I L. A: C.. t the barder and in Mexico. President
ajor Lanhorne Again Cross-. Wilsou ,eft thi8 aftfrnoon for a ww.k
es RlO Grande After Raid- end trip down Clu-apeak Bay in tho
ers Holding Glenn Springs ina' f(ht J?flom,er- , , .
. r t Secretary Bakes took a traia for
Attorney for KanSOm. j Atlantic City and Newark. X. J.. and
: will Lt return until Sunday.
RENDEZVOUS OF The text of G'n,'ral Pott's report
D KintTC l nrATTn flna' discussians has not tx-eii
tSAINUllO LUtAltJJ mH((, piitlic. There ar. indications.
. however, that he arrived at something
Negotiations for Exchange of , in ln na,r r gentleman s un
q. cl J C derstandiug with the Mexican minister
rnsoners rail, and surprise , of war though it p-jssibiy iwd m
Attack Is Only Hope of. wore deBnite- form than a statement
D T"t Dy Path 8't'e ' 'hat steps it purposed
Rescuing lexan. -taking toward checking raiding along
the Texas border, renewed with the
(By Review Leased Wl.) attack at C.leen Sprinas.
MARATHON. Tex.. May 12 Re-, pen(iing ne orders from the Prsi
ports reaching here tonight indicate j ,,pnt was matle paia , -KT
that Major George Ijinghorne and Department today that General Pcrsb
Troops A and B. Kighth Cavalry, have in g expedition would remain in
again dashed across the Rio Grande i Mexico watching deveJ.pment-i be-
fro m Boquillas In an effort 10 surprise . yon,i ,ne border. Meanwhile nii.biii
tbe bandits holding Jesse Deemer a,zatiun og national guardsmen fiom
prisoner. , the I'jrder states and of adilitio-ial
R, R. Hasbrouck. an assayer em- regulars to strengthen the border
ployed with a Bonuillas mining eon-;patrol at points along the 1.8W mile
cern and now a government scout, ar-! stretch no protected by the expedi-
rlved here today with messages for,
Captain John S. Chambers at Mara-
thon. He is said to have told" person-
al friends that Colonel Fred W. Sib-
ley. in command of the Big Bend ex-
neditlonary force, would order Major
Langborne to re-invade Mexico as it j
was believed that negotiations for an'
exchange of prisoners between Lang-
home and the bandits had falien
ihpnuirh ronifl n jn n . i iinmuHr.
i" .'he Marathon-luiUas rd.
No news of the reported lonu ranee
nnrlev between Major Ijinghorne and
the Mexican bandits for the release
of Deemer. in exchange for the three
Mexican bandits captured recently
were available tonieht.
rmr men here are of the opinion
that if the stories of the so-called con
for-HcA hotvwn Ijinehorne and the
bandits are true. It must result in fail-1
ure. Deemer. if alive, must he res
etted by force, which must call for a
sudden dash toward the n'ace where;
the bandits are said to have their
rendezvous. ,
1 ne Iaiih lumpen in ii'ui miu , C. 1
, . ' , , , . . from his government. Secretary Lan
ier, numberine one hundred and fifty . . .. . ,,K
men. from Fort San Houston, will ar
rive early tomorrow morning. Part :
of the romnanv will reinforce the lo-
rsi itarriwon t. n..- ...r ru........ - ...
. . t-n . . ; 1 1
ne usn as eiisrns sinK
Boouillas road, lending to Col. ih!ey s
exnditionarv column.
I t. : : 11.. i .. t . ,n . ..1 am.
11 ....I........ ... ...
. icamn ino enfir -..nii...iM n. .unn. .."n
hut in view of the snip-ne of yesu r- .jnU,n eTe mu han.ed. While G. n
dnv and th present leneh of the ra, ivrshin now ia m.er.tratin
communieatinn line;. Cnptun Cham- . hif( fr,.,,s aUm), a hsrtened line, it
hers decided to chance th disposl- J was stated positively that he would
tion of the troops. j hurry south again iiiiniediatelr if he
Reouisitions for an additional mo-! rPt,t.,ve(, jnfori,1lt j,.n t!iai Villa or
or truck section n-ade several davs.any ron.siiI. table number of his band
?o Is exne.ted to be honored by hejnaj sathered at a pint within strik-
War Pepartment shortly.
DOMINGO UNRULY
SANTO DOMINGO. May 12. The
situation crowing out of the differenc
es between Dominican factions here whereabouts or even whether he is
continues critical. Todav Rear Ad-: still alive. It was this situation, it
miral Canerton. commanding 'he Am- was indicated, as well as the incrcas
rlcin Torres, visited th American ing danger of clashes w,th the Mex-
lrenMon and discussed with the offi
cials thenj th" situation. The banks
ate closed. Tha Cnited States gun
host Dolphin and a torpedo boat have,
arrived in port.
II. S. UNMOVED
! HAS TROOPS
: REMAIN IN
I MM
Failure of Juarez Conferees to
! Reach Full Settlement. Has
No Influence On America's
Determination to Stand Pat.
i
! SECRET AGREEMENT
i IS CLAIMED MADE
But Is Only Obregon's Verbal
Promise of Co-operation; .
Carranza's Demands Will
Not Gain Hearing Soon.
(By Review Leased Wire.
WASHINGTON. May 12 Failure or
the mili'.iry "onference at EI Paso to
r--ja a definite- agreement has brought
! hJ change in the policy toward Mex
! ico of the Washinmon adininistra
i tion.
j President Wilson and his cabinet
discussed General Scott's report an
nouncing that the question at issue
i had been referred back by the confer
lees to their respective k'jverumenls
j for diplomatic discussion. Later it
(was officially stated that the situa-
tion was unchanged.
There was no evidence among ad
I ministration officials of greatly in-
tion. continues. Should raiding be
renewed additional state t.'jops will
be called out fjr toidT duty, and
wherever the bandits leave a hot trail
the army will not hesitate to purine
them in Mexico.
Senate Stands Pat.
An 'indication of the attitude of
!.me members of Consress toward the
suggestion of General Carranza that
the American expedition be recalled,
came in the Senate today when Sen
ator Lewis declared he believed the
majority of the Senate would never
vote for withdrawal, nnt.l tbe murder-
ers of Americans had been punished,
, Th Illinois senator speke in reply to
asuggestion by Senator Kenyon. that
nothing adequate was beinx don to
.safeguard the soldiers now in Mexfro.
' Senator Lewis declared every possible
prcea.it.n was being tak.-n by the
" ar i"""'"-
Neither Secretary Lansing nor
. : Kliseo Arredondo, Carranza amba.oa-
' dor-designate, took any step during
the day toward renewing diplomatic
discussion of the ..ints that arose
during the military conference. Mr.
Arredondo was awai:ing instructions
sing will discuss the
matter
with
General Scott on his
return
next
week beiore taking up informal t'jni-
I mucications with the
.Mexican am
nothing to ia-
, bassailor. There was
di.-ate anv desire to press matters on
eitner 8ij"e
, ., e tat,r-.:mn
ar IVpartment othcials Uid stre
. ...... ,haI .n,.rai Kunston s
Ing distance range.
General I'ershiug. it was stated,
kept going as long as he had a tut
trail to follow. For days there has
been no mention of Villa's name In
official dispatches and officials here
and at the Larder do not know his
iran population as the scattered chase
moved southward, which led General
Funston to suggest a re-disposition vf
troops In view of what had been ac
( Continued on Tajs Five)
