E7i
W -
'" 3KV.CC.'i
S?VK35ft
vu
'. 3,.-B5rXo?E -,C?'
- -- iAwliaijC:. .r'"' "
rr
Sj!5,&ctSjs23
. 1
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL "WHERE THEY MAY
Vol. XXI.
GHIGAGO, MAY 13, 1916
N. 34
i P 32?PigJiagga.,-?l--Ug3TT-A - -r-.ii'- - " -" ,--- --.vSPK'p--.-;v?:J
iV-SfrgSSfIe-S -rw c-?VT-i1-'s-iii3 .-- -' - - - - - ifJpESf-f-f-l
r:V-.7yC23s - n. -- . ,k3HHi
W ' W ,1- - .- S- ' P" ' r v.'wT V t "" m r-r W" J -. 7 W .. -.-- . j. . 1J - ' - " -K WHHHHHHHHHHHBBHHHbHHHHl 'H
The Republican Cook County Convention, So Far, Has Failed
to Elect a Chairman; It Will Make Another Desperate
Effort in That Direction Monday Afternoon at the
Hotel La Salle
COL. FRANK 0. LOWDEN, BEPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOE THE NOMIN
ATION FOE GOVEENOE OF ILLINOIS, FAVOES "HOME EULE" FOE
CHICAGO.
COL. THEODOEE'EOOSEVELT STILL LOOMS UP AS THE MOST LOGICAL
CANDIDATE FOE THE NOMINATION AT THE HANDS OF THE EE
PUBLICAN NATIONAL CpNVENTION FOE PEESIDENT OF THE
TJNITED STATES.
GEOEGE W. PEEKINS, HEAD OF THE "BULL MOOSE" PAETT, HAS
EENTED NINE FLOOES OF THE HOTEL LaSALLE, AT A COST OF
50,000 FOE TEN DAYS, AND HE AND HIS ASSOCIATES, WITH TWO
OR THEEE BAEEELS OF MONEY, WILL BE IN A POSITION TO
KNOCK OUT ALL COMERS AND PUT COL. EOOSEVELT OVEE THE
PLATE.
JOHN T. BICHAEDS, EX-PEESIDENT OF THE CHICAGO BAB ASSOCIA
TION AND EUSSELL WHITMAN, PEESIDENT OF THE CIVIL SEEV
ICE EEFOEM ASSOCIATION, HAVE BEEN NOMINATED BY THE
PEOGEESSIVES TO "WAKE THE EACE FOE JUDGES FULL TEEM
THAT IS SIX YEAES OF THE SUPEEIOB COUET OF COOK COUNTY.
"Big Bill," Hayor William Hale
Thompson, has been doing politics out
of town this "week. He will not blow
into this, or his, town until either
Monday morning or Monday evening,
and the'result is that Ms shouters and
retainers the followers, Hon. Edward
J. Brundage and those who still march
under the banner of Hons. Charles S.
Deneen and Boy.O. West, JUcLnoT have
the courage to go to the mat or come
to a show down on Thursday after
noon at the meeting of the Cook Coun
ty Republican convention and elect a
chairman to preside over it for this
coming year, for they were fearful
that their actions would be very dis
pleasing to Mayor Thompson in that
respect, so they feel that if his Hon.,
the 3Iayor, enjoys his out-of-town va
cation trip, sleeps well each night and
has very pleasant dreams during his
absence, that with his consent it might
be possible to elect a chairman of the
County Committee this coming Mon
day afternoon. '
t?nl. Frank O. Lowden, fully realiz
ing that Chicago is rapidly growing
into one of the largest and most pro
gressive cities in the world, came out
in an open letter this week in favor
of "Home Rule" for it, in respect
to her public utilities, also he declares
liini&clf in favor of a constitutional
convention, and recalls that on March
25. 1H15, he addressed the Illinois Leg
islature, convened in Joint Session in
aihotaiy of a constitutional conven
tion, favoring home rule for this city,
winch v. ill greatly strengthen Col.
Lou.U-u's forces all along the line in
hi-? u;ii; for the nomination for gov
ernor of Illinois.
Tln followers and supporters of Col.
Thivu i, lloosevelt, still dead sure that
he 1 i,i v :is- Hip most logical candidate
for t'u- ;ii.-:iination for President of the
Vim .! ii,.5 and with that end or
ohjiv; in iow, Mr. George W. Per
IviiK ti.- Lead chief of the "Bull
iroov.."' j. irty, has struck town, loudly
shout "Koosevelt for President; and
for ten ,ls prior to the opening of
the Nation:;! Republican Convention,
THE INAUGURATION OF ROBERT
EUSSA MOTON AS PRINCIPAL
OF TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE.
This Aeeli tho writer received from
tho trust.'ps of the Tuskegee Normal
ad Industrial Institute an invitation
to attend the inauguration of Robert
Bnssa Moion as the new principal of
tn institute, in connection with the
35th anniorarv exercises, on Thurs
day, May 2
n tnat oeeasion the following pro
Pam uili bo rendered: Sunday, May
8t, 2:00 p. jLj The commencement
jwnon, by Rev. C. B. Wilmer, D. D.,
ctor of St Luke's Episcopal Church,
hrp Gcor?i!1; Monday, May 22nd,
p. . ' ir- Annual Exercises of the
flelP3 Halt Bible Training School;
he has rented nine floors of the Hotel
LaSalle, at a cost of fifty thousand
dollars. He has also rented much
space in several of the other hotels,
and the Auditorium Theater, and he
and his associates, with three or four
barrels of real money, will be in a posi
tion to do business right off the reel
or. right and left, knocking ont all
-corners -and. put'CoL.Sosevelt over the
Iplate for President '
The Progressives, or the "Bull
Moosers," are also taking a hand in
the forth-coming June Judicial elec
tion, and they have nominated John
T. Richards, Ex-President of the Chi
cago Bar Association, who seems to be
very popular with his fellow lawyers,
and Mr. Russell Whitman, President of
the Civil Service Reform Association,
whom they claim is an able lawyer.
They have been nominated by the Pro
gressives to make the race for judges
of the Superior Court full term that
is six years.
With Messrs. Richards and Whitman
in the field there are now sixteen can
didates seeking seven judicial positions
with twelve thousand dollars per year
in sight for each would-be judge. They
are as follows:
Democrats Judge William E. Dever,
Judge Charles A. McDonald, Judge Wil
liam Fennimore Cooper, Judge Martin
M. Gridley, Judge Richard E. Burke,
Municipal Court Judge John J. Sulli
van and Joseph B. David, ;to succeed
Judge Henry V. Freeman, resigned.
. Republicans for the full term Judge
Robert E. Turney, former Judge George
A. Dupuy, Municipal Judge Hosea W.
Wells, Robert E. Crowe, Ex-Alderman
Henry TJtpatel, and Edward J. Hered
licks. To fill Vacancy Andrew J. Red
mond, Oak Park, (for place vacated
by Judge H. V. Freeman).
It is the solemn duty of each and
every voter to cast his ballot for
judges of the Superior Court regardless
of their politics, whom they honestly
feel will for the next six years faith
fully serve all the people throughout
Cook County.
Tuesday, May 23rd, 7:30 P. M., Trin
ity Church Boston Prize Contest; Wed
nesday, May 24th, 7:30 P. M., Senior
Class Day Exercises; ' Thursday, May
25th, Inaugural and Commencement
Day; 9:30 A. M., Commencement Ex
ercises; 2:00 P. M., Installation and
Inaugural Exercises.
Alderman Oscar DePriest and Capt.
Louis B. Anderson, Assistant Corpora
tion Counsel of Chicago, left the city
for the East on Tuesday. The first
stop they will make will be New York
City; then Washington, D. C, and
Philadelphia, Pa., where they expect to
arrive in time to assist to put the Uov.
Hon. Archibald James Carey, Ph. D. D.
D., over as one of the sew bishops ox
the A. M. E. Church.
CLEAN UP CONCLUSIONS.
Clean up week has closed, but it
should not be the closing week of Chi
cago's clean up effort. A clean up
week is only the beginning of a com
munity's efforts to be clean. Any com
munity that ceases its clean up work
with the end of clean up week will
soon be a dirty community.
There has been splendid work ac
complished during Chicago's clean up
week just closed. Thousands or prem
ises and back yards have been cleaned
and renovated. Many hundreds of
wagon loads of rubbish and cast-off
material of every character has been
carted away and properly disposed of.
But the fact remains that filth and
rubbish accumulate all the time. In
just a few weeks the same premises
now so tidy and attractive will be
come littered and unsightly. "
The cleaning up process is a con
tinuous process; otherwise it amounts
to but little. The great big value of
clean up weeks lies in the suggestions
that aro given to people to clean up
and to keep clean. And now that we
have made such a good start, let us all
unite in the effort to beep clean diirlSg
aii'ihe summer months. Let us keep
a careful surveillance of manure piles,
dirty back yards and other places that
require constant attention. Let us not
cease our efforts with the closing of
clean up week. Let us continue clean
up week during all the summer monthB
to the end that we may have during
this summer of 1916, the cleanest,
brightest, safest city we have ever had.
It is a fine thing to arouse people's
interest in community cleanliness; .tfc
get people to work together for com
munity good; to get people to working
together to do the things that make
for community beauty, community at
tractiveness and community safety.
These things, it may be added, add to
the front foot value of community
property. In other words, it pays in
many ways to be clean.
These sunny spring days should be
taken advantage of to give your sleep
ing rooms a thorough airing every day.
Open wide the windows and let the
fresh air and sunshine do their share
in promoting health and cleanliness.
Planting time is here. Have you
started that little flower and vecetable
garden yet? It is wonderful, the
amount of pleasure and profit that may
be derived from tending and cultivat
ing a garden. Try it and be convinced!
What is more cheering and delight
ful than a bouquet of flowers on your
breakfast table? Flowers speak a mes
sage all their own; they help to begin
the day's tasks with confidence in your
self and good will towards everybody.
And especially do they bring joy to
your heart when they have been picked
from your own garden.
A clean, normal heredity is a price
less legacy, but the best of parental
gifts may be handicapped or destroyed
by bad training and neglect of the
daily needs of sensible dress, decent
housing, wholesome food and free play
for muscles.
dr. j. w. Mcdowell will ad-
DEESS THE BETHEL LITER
ARY. This coming Sunday afternoon, May
14th, at 4 o'clock, Dr. J. W. McDowell
will address the Bethel Literary So
ciety, which meets' at Bethel church.
His subject will be, "The American
Flag and the Colored Baca."
President of the Conroy Boiler and Tank Company, West 47th Street, who is a
first-class business man and would make a dandy candidate for one of the
trustees of the Sanitary District of Chicago.
INSULT TO PEESIDENT WILSON7
When Mr. William Monroe Trotter
used some very plain language to the
President a year ago the press of the
country heralded the fact that a Col
ored man had insulted the President.
The Philadelphia North American pub
lishes an account of a conference be
tween the Chief Executive and mem
bers of the House and Senate Foreign
Committees, in which President Wil
son received far rougher treatment
than at the hands of Mr. Trotter. Very
few of the Dailies featured tho story
at all.
Senator Stone, chairman of the Sen
ato Committee, had assured the mem
bers of the Senate that he had the
President's word that nothing would be
done, which might precipitate war be
tween this Country and Germany with
out consulting Congress first. At the
beginning of the meeting called by the
President, in order to say to the com
mittees .what he later said to both
Houses of Congress in joint session, Mr.
Stone was stunned to hear that the
note to Germany had already been for
warded without any consultation.
As the President talked Senator
Stone occasionally looked, at his watch.
When the hour for the appointment
to close arrived, without waiting for
the President to conclude or dismiss
his guests, Senator Stone sprang from
his chair, pulled out his watch and
said: "Well, Mr. President, the time
is up. Have you got anything more
to say?"
The President looked astonished.
"Senator," he said slowly,, "you
look as serious as I feel."
"And I feel a damn sight more se
rious than I look," snapped the Sen
ator, as he turned and strode from tho
room. The other members of the party
followed. Ex.
RIK BHkS&''X'mr HhBgHHIB
ME. THOMAS B. CONBOY.
NEGEO EDUCATION.
President B. F. Allen of the Lincoln
Institute Spoke Before Large Crowd.
DECLAEED INSTITUTE WAS TUEN
ING OUT GOOD CITIZENS.
Address Was Given at Concert by Pu
pils of the Lincoln Institute at
Mexico, Mo.
(Special to The Broad Ax.) Assert
ing the aim of Lincoln Institute at
Jefferson City, Mo., is to turn out grad
uates who will be useful citizens and
not idlers, Dr. B. F. Allen, president
of the school, who is recognized as ono
of the leading Negro educators in
America, in an address at the Lyric
Theatre, offered proof by asking any
of his hearers, who needed a chauffeur
or all-around hand, to apply to him.
Dr. Allen's address, which was heard
by a large number of White people as
well as by scores of leading Negro
citizens, was said by many to bo the
most enlightening and inspiring on
the subject of education for the Negro
ever heard in Mexico.
He spoke before a concert which was
given by students of Lincoln Institute.
The program included selections by an
orchestra, vocal and instrumental solos.
The numbers ranged from cottonfield
melodies to opera. The interpretations
of compositions by Paul Laurence Dun
bar and Coleridge Taylor, both cele
brated Negro composers, were especial
ly meritorious, local music lovers de
clared. Lawyer B. F. Moseley has begun the
construction of his fine summer home
at Idelwild, Mich., of which town he
is the mayor, and he successfully con
ducts its affairs by telephone from his
law office at 6221 South Halsted street,
this city.
-
GIVES OFFICIAL CANVASS ON
DELEGATES-AT-LAEGE.
Dlinols Secretary of State Announces
Primary Election Results for Candi
dates for Three Parties.
Springfield, HI., May 12. 'The results
of the canvass of the recent primary
election made public today by Secre
tary of State Lewis G. Stevenson, show
that the following were elected dele-gates-at-largo
to the Democratic na
tional convention by the votes given:
Robert M. Sweitzer, 118,919; Edward
F. Dunne, 112,536; Roger C. Sullivan,
111,363; Henry T. Rainey, 108,740;
Robert Emmet Burke, 88,714; Carter
H. Harrison, 86,031; Jacob E. Creigh
ton, 84,415; and Jackson B. Pearce,
82,616.
The Republican delegates-at-large fol
low: William B. McKinley, 148,595;
Mcdill McCormick, 147,641; William J.
Calhoun, 143,637; William A. Boden
berg, 143,000; Isaac N. Evans, 140,569;
Roy O. West, 138,634; William Hale
Thompson, 137,941; and Garrett DeF.
Kinney, 136,677.
Only five names were on tho Pro
gressive tickets and as there are eight
delegates-at-large, all were elected.
Their names and the vote received fol
low: Raymond Robbins, 2,330; Frank
H. Funk, 2,308; James R. Campbell,
2,272; Harold L. Ickes, 2,263, and John
Maynard Harlan, 29.
The April number of the Howard
University (Washington, D. C.) Rec
ord issued as an Alumni number has
been received. It is a 48-page edition
with an illnminated cover, in the col
lege colors and contains much informa
tion of interest to the Alumni located
in all parts of this and foreign coun
tries. Any Alumnus can obtain a copy
by applying to the Alumni Secretary
of the General Aimnm Association,
care of the University.
ill
!
S Cr2RU
J$ -Lt
-
L-,
ii-WyS
,H,-.
-a. i Brr-- T. ,
