ntaratf aa aeon ciaae
-5M.clatt. ' Oetobar 11, law, at tha aatt
at Chleaio, inineie, under Act of fearcn l" le7t"
INDEPENDENT IN ALL TtilMM. NEUTatAL IN NONE
Entered aa Second Clan
TWaWTY-SEVENTH YBA.R, NO. 33.
Ili" S.Vid Claae. Matter Oetebar 11, law, at the
Offlea at Chicago, lillnole, undar Act of March t,in.
CHICAGO, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1910.
Sixteen Paget.
DRY ALDERMEN
The City Council Devotes Most of Its Time
to Closing Wet Restaurants and
Thirst Parlors.
MNOLRCCV
nva
cum WHOLE NUMBER 1,380
Blind Pigs, Cabarets, Late Hour Dining Places
and Other Things Subject to Sumptuary
Legislation.
General Gossip About Men and Doings in the Various
Political Camps, and the Aspirants for
Office and Honors.
The Big Presidential Campaign and the Important Places to Bo Filled
Attract the Attention of the Voters of Illinois.
Tho City Council at Its last mooting
transacted tho following business:
Pretzel onllnunco divorcing danco
and drink voted down 40 to 28.
Onllnunco closing wet restaurants
at 1 o'clock In force tonight.
Wet personnel domlnatcH camuils
slon investigating liquor truulc.
Fight ngalnst Rogers 1'nrk blind
pigs and peddlers referred.
Autl-cnbaret ordinances delayed two
weeks In committee
Funkhouscr Investigators' reports
withheld from council.
FOR MORE BRIDGES
City Council, After Much Delay,
Takes Action Providing for
Necessary Improvements.
Uifit week tho llnunco committee of
the council, swamped with bond Issuo
propositions, turned down all of thorn,
Including tho ono iiBkod for the bridge
construction program for tho noxt live
or hIx years. It did so In tho face of
legal advice that tho action could not
be reversed lator, as thirty days' no
tlco to the election board was neces
sary to place tho Question on tho lit
tle ballot. If that hud bcuri truo, tha
bond propositions would have died last
Saturday.
Aid. Ellis aolger was-ono of tho few
who did not surrender all hope. Ho
sought out Loon Hornstoln in tho law
department, and Mr. Hornstoln ruled
that the bond ordinances could bo
passed up to twenty days boforo tho
election on Juno S.
"With this Information "Aid. Qelger
nnd Commissioner of Public Works
Moorhouse appeared boforo tho finance
committee to urgo a reconsideration
of tho brldgo bond question. Approval
was voted for it, together with approv
al for the f3,750,0Q0 piatl for extend
ing the street lighting system. Chair
man Rlchort presented tho ordinances
at tho evening council session and
both wero passed with a small opposi
tion vote, although several aldermen
oxpresscu a boiler that they would not
bo passed by tho voters.
Mayor Thompson at onco signed
both ordinances. This fixed 18,500,000
as tho total of tho two municipal bond
issues to bo presented to tlo votors,
nnd tho addition of 2,000,000 pro
posed by tho county board for a now
jail gives a combined total of 110,
850,000 In bonds asked for city nnd
county purposes.
David Kdstrom of Sweden was guest
of honor at a reception nnd banquet
tendored by tho Swedlsh-Amorlcan
painters and sculptors of Chicago at
tho Hotel La Salle. Tho affair was In
connection with an entertainment that
Is being produced under the auspices
of the Swedish orchestra of Chicago
at Its club rooms.
Henry S. Henschen, cashior of tho
State Bank of Chicago, presided, F.
Herman dado, late commissioner for
Norway at tho San Francisco exposi
tion, described tho exhibit of Scandi
navian art at tho exposition, and
Charles L. Hutchinson, president of
tho Art Institute, spoko of tho develop
ment of art In Chicago, othor speuk
ers wero Charles S. Peterson, prcsl
dent of tho Swedish Club of Chicago;
Dr. C. O. Waldenlus, presldont of tho
Swedish Thoologlcnl Seminary at
Evanston, and Prof. David Nyvull,
pruHiuom oi North Park College.
FOR FIFTY WARDS
Alderman Capitain Starts the
Ball Rolling for Fewer Al
dermen and Less Wards.
IJoforo tho council Judiciary com
mltteo Aid. Henry I). Cnniinin nn.n.i
the preparation of legislation to ro
district tho city Into fifty wards, ullow
lug ono alderman from each ward. Ho
alBO suggested that ;i nliv tmm,,,.,,.
should bo appointed by the city coun
cil, thus pructlcully eliminating tho
olllco of mayor. Tho subject mutter
was referred to n sub-commltteo com
posed of Aid. KJollnnder, McCormlck,
Rodriguez, Wnlkor, and Coughlln.
Aid. John C. KoihumIv wna nt,ai,.
cessful In an effort to havo tho com
mltteo recommond a resolution cnll
Ing on tho president and congress to
"use all ronsonnblo means to nvold a
diplomatic break with Germany." Tho
sentiment of tho majority was that
such a matter Is outside tho provlnco
of tho city council.
Those Who Voted mriiinat dm maM..
tlon wero Norrls, Wornor, Kimball,
.McCormlck, Dauler, KJollander, Hru
bee, W. J. Lynch, Ruck, nnd Dlaha.
Aid. Coughlln, Rodriguez, Miller, and
Walker, who favored tho rosolutlon,
said thoy would bring In n minority re-port.
G0WAN-ST0B0
FOR CONGRESS
Popular and Able Republican
Much Talked of for Seat in
National House of Repre
sentatives. John Gownn-Stobo, whoso friends
are legion, nnd who is ono of tho most
widely known export accountants in
tho United States, Is talked of for
Congress by his friends. Ho is a bril
liant orator and Is one of the best
postod men on national affairs In Illinois,
llckn, tho foregoing slate had boon
agreed upon at a meeting of tho Joint
conference committee representing
tho throo factions held nt county
headquarters In tho Otis building.
After tho delegates had arrived at tho
La Salle, tho sixth placo, allotted to
tho city hall, was settled at a hurry
up caucus of tho west aiders afllllated
with tho city hall. It was a question
of naming a Bohemian or a Jew and
Committeeman Charles Vnvrik nt tiw.
Thirty-fourth ward won out nnd suc
ceeded In naming Hcrdllckn.
In tho judicial slato making each of
the three factions gets two places nnd
REPUBLICAN
CONVENTION
Work Commenced at the Coli
seum in Preparation for the
Coming Event.
William ,F. Blono, sergeant-nt-arms
oi mo Kepuiiiicnn notional committee,
took possesion of the Cbllscum and
started a gang of carpenters nt work
getting things In slmpo for tho big
doings In June.
Tho foundation for tho stage sents
was put In and tho nntiex was rapidly
nut 111 Klinnn fnr llm ntllnna ht u. .... .
llcnal committee. Mr. Stono hopes to
nuo inuso oincos ready by tomorrow,
when ho niidhls staff will move In nnd
!0t things ready for the meeting of
tho national comthlttcu to hear con
tests. Secretary Reynolds of the national
committee will ho hero on Saturday,
aim uimirmnn Hlllos Is expected a
low days later.
EXTENDING
WEST SIDE "L"
Progressive Metropolitan Com-
pany Will Soon Extend Its
Lines to Berwyn.
Efforts nro being made by tho citi
zens of Berwyn, which ndjolns Chi
cago 011 tllO ROIlthwimt. n nlitnln o..
extension of tho Douglas Park branch
of the Metropolitan "L" to nnd
through tho town. Tho plnns call for
n line paralleling West Twenty-sec-ond
street and oxtendlng to tho west
lino of Berwyn at Hnrlcm nvenue,
with a branch extending south near
Onk Park avenue through tho center
of the town to Ogdon avenue, and
then southwest to Harlem avenue.
JUDICIAL TWINS
The Progressive Party Produces a Pair
for the Voters to Admire in the
Pending Judicial Campaign.
All of the Political Parties Are Getting Things
in Shape for the Battle on
June Seventh.
LOWER (AS RATES
Samuel Insull Ma'kes an Appeal'
to the City Council on
the Subj'ect.
Samuel Insull, chairman of tho
board of directors of tho gas com
pnny, addressed an appeal to the cotin
ell committee on gas, oil, and electric
light asking Immediate consideration
or.' the company's proposal to lower
rates in return for permission to sell
Public Men and Public Conditions as They Are Seen by
tho People in the Light of Their
Performances.
General Information of a Public and Political Nature From All Parts
of the State and All Parties In It.
John T. Richards, former president
of the Chicago liar Association, nnd
RiiHsell Whitman, president of tho
Civil Servlco Reform Association,
wero launched as nonpartisan candi
dates for Superior Court Judges by tho
Progressive party county committee.
.Mr. Rlchnrds is a Republican and Mr.
Whitman Is n Democrat. Their nunics
will go on tho .luno S ballots under tho
Progresstvo appellation. This wns
done to get tliem a nosltlon nn tlm
I
FOUNDED 1899
LarfMt Watty Gtakll famf
Pplt tf lafluMM ui SiuOmg
Tho Republicans have nominated
tho following judicial ticket for tho
June election:
Full Term.
Judse Robert B. Turney, Twenty,
fifth ward,
George A. Dupuy, Twenty-sixth
ward.
Hosea W. Wells, Eighteenth word
Robert E. Crowe, Thirteenth ward.
Henry Utpatel, Fifteenth ward.
Edward J. Herdllcka, Thirty-fourth
ward;
Vacancy.
Andrew J. Redmoriarnnk'Pnrk iter
I . . - " -
pracB vacateu Dv Judeo H. v. Pron.
uinnj
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBpJflBaBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
aBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaKt9aBaaaSBBaaaaaaa?BBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
K ' aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaH
LiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaW ;;V'-V ' : -aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaB
laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaavEtJaaaaaV'"' vgajajajBJBfal
aaaaaaaaaaaHlaaaVA'ifliaaaaaHii.i.i.i.H
laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaK9illaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaKaaaaaaPv&SsiiiualP'' . aaaaaaaaar " ' . aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaV
BaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaWABfcaiBF. ' SbbbbW. i BaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBai
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHHKlllwfe'NR ' v H
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBlaV VdBBBBEhBWW ? t BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbB
BBBBBBBHeI jbwHbHbbbbW ' i 'M iLbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBffBBBBBBBBBBBBffiBfBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBW" ' aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB J!BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBb1
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBT? aBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBtv'-T-:BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBb1
BlSlSBPw k2bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb1
aBBBBBBBB";":;v;;::-lBIHH
X :- J, alBaaaBaKaaBBBBBBBBBSaBBBBBmaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
sViCliiHaBaBaBVBaaaWiBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaal
fiPllHEaflBPlHBaHelaaaaaaaaaaaaaH
V 5.TI
i-x:? im
ewxi. j
on tho workers and party representa
tives In the Bovornl precincts.
Former Aid. Henry Utpatel, one of
the slato candidates, said ho could
think of only one Ihhiio ho might have.
The Democrats will dispose of tho
vacancy on the sanitary district board
before getting down to the Judicial
campaign. Tho board has tho tilling
of tho vacancy until November. Tho
cholco lies botween Frank Armstrong
and some Polo, with tho chances fa
voring Armstrong.
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM
Outline of the State Declaration
Announced by the Party
Leaders at Springfield.
Republican loaders In session at
Springfield announced that tho state
platform would demand:
1. Preparedness, ndequato and Im
mediate, with special emphasis on a
strong navy.
-. A tariff commission.
if. A constitutional convention for
Illinois.
I. Restoration to Chicago of homo
rule for Its local public utilities.
C An executive budget.
. Rovislon and simplification of
the state primary and .election laws.
7. Tho adoption of the proposed tnx
amendment. -
tlonnl conventions aro to bo outdono
noxt month in Chicago.
LEADERS ARE HERE
Preliminary Headquarters Open
ed Up By the Republicans for
National Convention at the
Congress Hotel.
Secretary .Inmos . Roynolds nnd
Sergeant at Arms William F. Stono
of tho Republican national committee
hnvo opened up tho preliminary head
quarters at tho Congress, from which
tlio work of preparing tho Coliseum
for tho con Vfint Inn u-iii i.,. .11 ....
" "II Ulll-UllMI,
iho national convention olllcos In tho
Coliseum Annex will bo constructed
within tho next ton days, and every
thing will bo sot for tho meeting of
tho full national committon, nt which
tho contests will bo hoard in tho mak
ing of tho tompornry roll.
JOHN T. CONNERY,
Highly Respected Buainesa Man and Progressive Chicagoan.
I With the oxceptlon of Mr. Herd-1 expiring.
tho soventh goes to Judgo Turney,
tho only ono Of the rntlrlni; liwlnna
who Is a Republican. Judgo Turney
from Lake View was ono of tho win
nlng Republicans on the Deneen slate
Inst year, when he was elected to
fill tho vacancy occasioned by tho
death of tho late Thomas M. Clark.
Tho Deneen-Wost committeemen
named former Judge George A. Du
puy nnd former Aid. Henry Utpatel
Mr.' Dupuy was backed by John C,
Cannon and tho Twenty-sixth ward or
ganization. He was one of tho Re
publican Judges defeated. for re-election
in 1910 by the haw nt nm.
cratlo judges, whose terms aro Just
gas on heat unit Instead of tho pres
ent cundlo power baslB.
"If It Is tho Intention of your com
mltteo to withhold a doclslon upon
tho question of a chango to a hoot
unit standard until after tho valua
tion of tho company's property is com
plotod," Mr. Insull says In his lottor,
"Wo ask that you advise us of that
Intention.
"In order to prevent delay we wero
careful to proposo at tho outset that
tho rates should not be regarded as
binding for any definite period, but
moroly ns a schedulo tn im iitm-nut
Ullttl thO Valuation Of tho .nmnanv'a
property Is completed and the rates
shown to be justified."
ballot at this date, tho last day to fllo
nomination papers.
Tho Democratic ticket for tho judi
cial election Juno 5 Is as follows:
For full torm Superior Court Judgo:
Judgo Rlchnrd E. Ilurko, Thirteenth
ward.
Judgo Mnrtln M. Grldloy, Kvnnston.
Judge William E. Dovor, Twenty
fifth ward.
'Judgo Willlnm F. Cooper, Twenty
first ward.
Judgo Charles A. McDonald, Twenty-fifth
ward.
Municlpnl Judge John J. Sullivan,
Thlrtloth ward.
For short torm:
Joseph n. David, Third ward.
UPI1AM IN BIG DEMAND
Fifty-five Thousand People Have
Already Made Requests of
Him for Convention
Tickets.
THE JUDICIAL FIGHT
Republican County Committee
Outlines Its Plans for the
Campaign Now On.
Tho Republican county commltteo
outlined the plan of tho Judicial cam
paign. Thoy decided not to make a
puuiio appeal, as thoy had no Issues,
I but will concentrato all their offortB
Fred W. Uphnm, who did moro than
nuy other one man to bring tho Re
publican convention to Chlcngo, has
already received flfty-flvo thousnnd
requests for tickets of ndmlsslon. Not
more than 10,000 of thoso applica
tions enn got rosults, Mr. Uphnm said,
and proforonco will bo glvon to tho
suDscnuors to tho fund thnt landed
tho "world's groatoBt political con
vention" for Chicago when Mr. Up
ham and his local commltteo wero
ngnting for subscriptions Inst wlntor.
Indiana Is sending In a flat demand
for a block of 1,000 soats to accom
modate tho members of tho "Fair
banks recentlon nnmnilHon " .i,ii.
will open headquartorg ono month
from today. Marching clubs from all
over tho country havo submitted re
quests, indicating tho spectacular fea
tures that mado history In earlier na-
CHAIRMANSTUCKART
Popular County Treasurer Heads
the New Democratic Exec
utive Committee.
Tho Denmcrnts hnvo porfectcd tholr
now organization. County Treasurer
Henry Stucknrt was mado chairman
or the executive committee, Dennis .1.
Ksnn of tho organization committee,
J-rank S. Ryan of tho finance Com
mltteo and Rudolph Sclinpp of iho
commltteo on halls and speakers.
On tho oxecullvo commltteo besides
Mr. Stuckurt nro Robort M. Sweitzor
Dennis J. Kgim, Frank J. Walsh, a!
J. Cormnk, Frank s. Ryan, M. K.
Sheridan, John F. O'.Malloy, s. if.
Kunz, Harry R. Gibbous, Michael Ken
nn, M. J. O'llrlcn, John Powers, p. a,
Niihh, Jacob Mndholmcr, Oeorgo K
Hroiiiinn, II. j. Giogan, P. J. Cnrr,
Fred I). Hrelt, T. J. Crowo, Ross C.
Hall and Thomas Caroy.
THE B0YSJN CHARGE
Sub-Committee of National Com
mittee in Charge of Arrange
ments for Republican
Convention.
Tho sub-commltteo on nuangomonts
Is composed of Mr. Hlllos, Now York,
chairman: Prod W. Kstnbrook, Now
Hampshire; James P. Goodrich, Indi
ana ; Rnlph Williams, Oregon j Frank
lln Murphy, Now Jersoy; Alvnh H.
Martin, Virginia; Thomas F. Nied
rJnghaiis, Missouri; Charles n. War
ren, Michigan; John T. Adams, Iowa;
I' rod Stanloy, Kansas; E. C. Duncan,
North Carollnn, and George R, Shol
don, Now York.
FOUNDED 1889
Largest Weekly Circulation Aatwif
Peopli of Influence and Standing
