vni 1V k '; - - - - - msM
NU AMERICAN FORK CITIZEN, SAtOAl. M VY 13 inie IH
- iMsl . NUMiiBii 4 mm
Belorophan Fissure
To Rival Pacific
Two Deep Tunnels Now Being Driven to Cut it at Depth, and
Third One to bo Started Soon Source of Many Tons of Rich
Ore in Mary Ellen and Major Evans Gulches is Located and
Will be Opened up.
Globe Consolidated Is tho latest
canyon property to bo financed Tor
in actho campaign or development.
The well known brokerage firm of W.
H. Child and Co., Is supplying tho
funds, nnd this week Is placing 150,
000 share) of stock on tho market nt
I f cents per Hlinrc. Tho stock In said
I (o be repeating Whirlwind history
when 100.000 shares nt 7 cents wcro
I taken In a week's time.
I Just as soon as tho receding snow
I lino make . It convenient to select a
I suitable place to commenco running
B a tunnol, a hunch of miners will ho
I put to work driving the Rclorphnn
uin the John Cleghorn opened up late
last fall. The Ilclorphan vein Is ono
I of the biggest In tho canyon and Is i
I now known to havo been tho source
I of the hundreds of tons of rich float
thlppeil In tho carllor dnys and also
I recently from the Major Evans Gulch.
H On tho Delorphnn ground much of
H tic soluablo llmo has eroded away,
H leaving tho oro lying In tho top soil.
Cleghorn Is going after It whore It
H oakes to tho deep. His demonstrn
H tlon Inst fall that the flsuro Is there,
fl ud tho Pacific's proof that (ho best
fl values also mako Into tho (inartslte,
fl means that another vein ns big. If not
llpger than tho Pacific will soon com
H menec mnklng history for the Canyon.
H Mr. Cleghorn has had n force of men
H it work (hero all winter, driving n
H tunnel to tap tho vein on his own
H ground, nnd their work will mako
H tome mighty important disclosures
H about Juno 1st.
This snmo vein mnkes directly
touthwest across tho Qlobo Consoll
H dated ground and can bo. traced ns
I MH PACIFIC
I "III Co After Ilig Fissure In Scotch.
H man Tunnel, Now In 100 Feci Will
I Slnrl up Mineral Flat.
B J, Will Knight with C. W. Karl nnd
B Peter MUlci miulo an Inspection of
B tho Paelflc mlno this week. Knight
B Is manager of tho Miller Hill property
B on a part of which Mr. Karl has taken
B lease Mr Knight had road much
B ct recent developments In tho Pncl
B "c hut expressed great surprlso nt
B the stren-ih of tho flssuro, the
B Mount cf development work dono
B "id tho immense bodies of shipping
B or(l oiiftrd up. They examinod the
B Wg strike In the north drift where
B ,ne dl-tnnrp brlwcen walls Is 30 fo"t
B Mr. ttirl drrlnrcn that two men with
B WW drin could keep n half docn
muelcm i,n Indeflnntely, wheeling
B out hiRli ni -de shipping ore. Mr.
B Knlhi iso ustonlahed with the
J dCTclcimrrl of 0IO On tho lOVOl 100
H feet abo tho tunnol, where the
miners hni fullbrenstof gnlenn In
B on ur,r;'1 ' being innilo.
Mr FtI i.,,ii intended driving n now
tunnel rnn.ii of tho nine Hook No. 3
claim but fidintr that the Scotchmen
tunnel h o,,w half way through 111"
nluo Hn.it oinlm ho has decided to
B totm-.i-np. f,,i hero nnd all thrco men
aprrod ih i,0 H ioiy t0 C1lt the
Hln wm ti,p nf,xt nnn fPol nn,i Mr.
B Karl 'l'1' ' tr will probably bo nbout
200 frrr , , nf lJl0 ni0 noek No. a
B c,aI'" T' . mnnel Is enved In n fow
Places ti,i win bo cntieht up. nnd
a ,rark I-1 in nt oneo. whon n force
B of "'i'" H1 enmmeneo tho senreh.
B T1P " "f Mr. Knight will prnb
B M5r '""""i tlm resumption of work
B n "lp M p rrl pint, n proporty eou
B tro,r,J 1" Knlcht Interests. Tho Mln
B (ral I'''n, '"is had more money eepnt
0I l Hint, nnv other proporty In the
fl nyon '" has produced only a llttlo
B nrr f1''effd by lensors. Dovelop-
B m"n,R '"-tntr tho past year In Am-
B "Ifnn Fnrk ennvon and In Iho Cotton.
B nc i, ovcr ()0 (Uvl(l0 Bl0W
"'', ' Mineral Plat mled He
ort' T nmnorlv. howovor, ! '"
B "nn ''' ' ' ' ' RPt tbo oro without
B h" "" "'ni1' "'"1 Mr. Knight In
B Um:'-dth . vr Mbodono.
B mr.) itTin v.K
9 OF lNCO'U'O'MTlOX
Jr Mil 1fU-T,, Tooole Ch1'-'
nn i "ml M,,,,nR Con",nnv w,,h
TT i "' 1,onPZ ,nln1,, nt fv-mllo
, P"I,n,Jr ,,nvo '"1 nrtleles of
""orpomtion Tho m Mivta ,
plainly ns n cement sidewalk. Ono
can dig In It any place and pick out
samples of flno galena. Tho work
dono heretofore has been In tho hard
llmo nnd while showing occasional
values, It was not In commercial
quantities. The new work will bo In
tho soluable llmo, lying from CO to
100 feet below tho old woi kings, and
If Cleghorn's theory proves to be cor
rect, then nnothcr tunnel will sook
tho oro deep In the nuartzlte. At any
rato It seems ceitaln that good bod
ies will bo found In the soluable lime
on tho quartztto.
The same vein continues on Into
tho head of tho Major Kvans Gulch,
where tho same big area of high
grndo float proves its presence. Hero
Chnrley Karl has a bunch of miners
driving tho Karl-Kaglo tunnol to cut
tho flssuro about where it makes in
tho contact with tho quartzlto and
solunblo lime. On tho old Steele
group, now tho Karl-Kagle, much
float has been picked up. somo of It
being so high grndo as to mako ono
dizzy. Mr. Karl will reach this vein
sometime In tho summer, depending
on how soon ho Is able to change
from single Jacks to power drills.
These three properties, the Ilclor
phan, tho Olnbo Consolidated and the
Karl.Kngle, are all on tho same fis
sure. Thoy with 200 feet of Mve
Ynnkee nnd a similar dlstnneo on tho
Silver Wave, cover a total dlstnneo of
over 8 000 feet. A strike on either
will prodnco water for tho other two's
mill whcols. Cleghorn Is duo to
strike It flrs.t ami we,ll posted miners
snv that hlsMs'tho next canyon, .sen
sation. '.; iVfi'SW.
;iloioo,ltlfRimre5ririt"h7
n. I.ouls Phillips, president; William
K. Kollcy, vlco president; Leonard S.
Harrington, secretary nnd treasurer;
Ocorgo Coode, 1- .T. Phillips and
Jnmes II. Clarke.
o
PACIFIC'S NEIGHBOR
GE1G REM
American Fork Mlnliit? Ompnn) Is
Preparing fur u Season of Aetlie
Deiclopiiu-nt.
Tho American Fork Mining Com
pany, owners of the Hoaley group of
patented claims ndjolnlni? the Pad.
flc on tho north are preparing to
commonco work nt nn early date.
Tho secretary. I.. C. Hlckoek of Salt
Lake City, states that Just ns roou ns
tho molting snow makes It possible,
a forco of miners will bo put to work
opening up the oro bodies known to
exlslt there. Considerable woik was
dono on tho company's ground sev-
ornl years nCo. The rccont develop
ments In the ennyon have shown
whero the ore lies, and before the
present month Is over the American
Fork Mining Comrnny will bo among
tho most vigorous workers In the canyon.
EASTERN INVESTORS
TURNING TO
AMERICAN FORK
George K Hemphill has returned
from nn extended trip to tho inlddlo
West nnd to the Kast on mining busi
ness, nnd says that tho degree of In
terest being dlsplnyed throughout the
country In Utah mining securities Is
llttlo short of amazing.
"Tho greatest Interest Is In Amcti
enn Fork canyon properties", ho said,
"and this will Increnso as quickly ns
our national foreign relations prob
lem Is definitely settled. Tho outlook
In tho Kast is for n great flow of in-.-.n.ont
to tho West, particularly to
1'tiih u I r! I.v investors are
lnokinir more to coining n.l..i l w-' l0
lu to place their money, limn In wtnh
llshed dividend payers.
"Tho lnrgo Interest In American
Fork ennvon properties mnv bo as
rriit Jointly o the development In
Pacific, and the Intelligent, conserva
tive and far reachl.m pub'lcltv work
bolng carried on by Hio stock brokers
through tho media of their market
lcttora, As soon as ono or two othor
properties of this district bring In tho
ore, there will bo n rush for theso
iocks. Tho prospective Investors uro
prepatliiK for It.
"I look for the Karl-Kuglo and tho
Texan to develop something In tho
very near futuio. Thoro Is no question
In my mind that tUeso will equal Pa
cific with equal development, lloth
nio well flnnnced."
Mr Hemphill went to tho middle
West, then to Hoston nnd Now York,
returning to the inlddlo West and then
to Salt Lake. He says buying Am
erican Fork District securities la
strong and growing stronger
COMMERCIAL CLUB
FQRCLEAN TOWN
Week Commencing' May ,-,, ,0 c.
idled to Cleaning up Cllj- Slrecls,
ParKs nnd Homes.
Thirty members of the Commercial
Club met at luncheon Wednesday
noon In Kclley's resturant and vot
ed unnmlnously for a clean town
week. Six days will be devoted to tho
work and it Is urged that every citi
zen Join In the movement. Mayor
Hunter bus Issued a proclamation
published In this Issue and tho City
Council hns voted teams to haul away
all tho garbage that may be piled on
tho trccts.
Monday will bo for cleaning yards,
raking rocks nnd repairing culvorts.
Tuesday Plowing nnd clennlng
wasto water ditches.
Wednesday, Thursday and Frldny
repairing fences and painting fences
mid nut buildings.
President Chlpmaii nlso loportcd
on tho plan of Karl J. Glade, tho effi
ciency export, providing for advancing
nnd ndvcrtlslng tho city.
Floncr Day, .June II,
Juno 14, was voted as flower day
nnd will bo used as a business get
ter. Merchants will offer special pri
zes. Thoro will bo races on Main St.,,
and n clinso to catch a greasy pig;
Thcprograiii'ttlsdiprcivldcSffor aJan't
tJnthltnCTl?ieT!
later. Every" nation will bo represent
ed In costumes nnd prizes will bo giv
en for tho best character. The grand
march of the Nntions will take place
nt 10 p. in.
o
THE REAPER
Mrs. Prlscllla Coilnglon Tlinrnlen
Passed A iiny Sunday.
Mrs Prlscllla Covington Thornton
pnssed away at her homo Sunday
morning, after bolng afflicted with
dropsy for ovcr thrco months. Mrs.
Thornton was the daughter of llerrlll
Covington nnd Kllznbcth Hodges Cov
'ington. Sho wns born .Tnnunry 27.
lS30 Ifi llodfordi Kngland, nnd emi
grated to Utah in 1852, coming from
I Winter Qunrters to tho valloys in
Pies. Smoot'H company, arriving In
(Salt Uko In tho fall of tho somo year.
Sho wns mnrrled to Thomas B. Thorn-
tlon in April 27. ISr.G mnklng tneir
married" life. 00 yenrs and 10 dnv
Their posterity numbers-eleven chPd
ron. sovonty-flve grand-children j
sixty-four grent grand-children and
ono great great grand child.
Sho was modest nnd of a retlrhiK
disposition nnd had nn abiding faith
In the gospel of Christ.
Funornl services were held In the
Fourth Word meeting houso Tuesday
nt 2 o'clock, lllshop Karl S. Green
wood presided, tho speakers wore.
Warren II. Smith. Jnmos H. Clnrko
and lllshop Karl S. Greenwood. Mar
tin Hanson gave tho Invocation mid
Chrlstlnn Hanson offered the benedic
tion. Music wns furnished by the -Ith
Word choir with u solo fiom Miss
Mvrtlo Coddlngton nnd a duct from
Mrs Kmmn Green wood-Andorson and
Mrs. Mae Hulllday. The grave was
dedicated by .Tames II. Pulley.
MHS. .TAMF.S COMMHI SlTl TMHS
TO OPFHATION.
Moied From IliiTTTly Three Venn
Airo-rmifrnl Sen Ires Held 'I hurs.
day.
Mrs. Annlo Condor, wife of JnmeB
Condor, died nt tho Lehl hospital Mon
day. Sho had undergone nn operation
for a cancerous growth the Saturd.tv
before. Sho hns been 111 for the pnst
three months nnd eamo down from
her homo In Provo Valley two weeks
ngo for consultation nnd nn operation.
Mrs. Condor was born In American
Fork. July 23. 1802. This city lm
boeii her homo up till about three
years ago. when the family moved .o
ranch on rank's Creek, about m
' cs from Heber Hec paron's n e
'Mr and Mrs Peter Adamson S
survived by her husband and three
Hilt OOOO'frO 'HI
;feEAN-UP WEEK! I
ilteoN. May ' 1 5 to Sat. May 20
' iJP 7 V"i imW m W With our closo MB
'k y sUould yyjMm:MSm mA 0ash i)riccs vou X 11
Wn Sheir 1Jremis- 3)SMSXL -Z-?!fr can do a wholo lot ji
4 8l ..WJ10" you can wC of J ' b
ViS?- il' yU MpIL - :IS REPAIRING 4. i
fe?uld 'repair yur l.fl!"4 dr W r-" Hflfl paint Brushes ' 'ff
JJ'W008' Palnt or EVERY DOLLAR EXPENDED FOR Whitewash Brush- tM
J4wsh them. Lot it LUMBER IS WELL INVESTED cs-Bristlo Brush- t :l'i
p? sa American 'Hit Imildintfs you coustruci with iho linn- cs. 4. -3-'i8
vVorl; is tho clean- 1,or vou ,)U-V' ,m'an ,1()- onl-v l,t'0,,0,y 11 tJM
4 :Mv . ' tlio coiisorvalion of crops, miidiincry and Wliy not BRUSH 4. S
?ffifv. y m slock, but add to llio ccpiipmcut and value up during Clean- 'fl
KM,to. of the farm. , " . ffl
T -ff t , lie-. up wook? T m
C-rH liUinliiM- purchasod tor repairs, m an cspco- '
'.'$ $..' inlly wise purcliasc, as its use prevents the 4 fl
jfe)w.' buildings from deteriorating in value and - S
5 yfifir usofullness. fl
Wft OHIPMAN'S LUMBER YARD 4 U
&& WATCH OUR BIG SHOW WINDOWS FOR BRUSHES AND PAINT. V fl
? SSL 9
JClean-up-Wash-up -Brush-up t 1
'trAcuum Cleaners Cedar Mops Bissol Sweepers Brooms Everything to koop fl
0SJoxi clean Three Big Windows of Tools for Clean up-Wcok. ffi
(Jhipmaiis Big Red Store : I
Wjfrrf BUSINESS 0EMTEB" X j
children, u daughter nged 21, nnd two
sons aged 17 nnd 18. Her sisters lire
Mrs. Thomns Thornton, of Iona, Ida
ho, Mrs. T. II. Donahue of Peekaboo. :
Idaho, Mrs. J. K. Green of this city,
Mrs. C. I.. Kllllngsworth of Peltilch. i
Idaho nnd Mrs. U 13. 1-ott of I.ohl.
Her brothers nro T. H. Adamson of
Hobor nnd Peter Adamson, Jr., of Am
erican Fork.
Funeral cervices hold In tho First
Waul mooting houso, Thursday after
noon, were largely attended. Ulshop
Jemcs T. Onrdnor presided nnd the
ward choir furnished tho music. The
spenkorn woro J. II. Dnvls, Amnion
Meicor, Alexander Lowe of Proio
nnd lllshop J. M. Itltchlo of CliBilston.
James Martin nnd Miss Mnry Martin
gnve n ditot. Thoro wcro innny beau,
tlful flornl tributes.
ntoi'T run (jaxyox stui:.ms.
Havo Mndnnn wiis In American Foil;
j Wodnosdny nnd made arrangemints In
deliver u lot of Itnlnbow trout to J.
V. Mninvoll, tho range ilder. to bo In
stalled in tho American Fork Canyon
ciock. Tho fish aro soierol Inches
long bo thoy will be good nngllng In
nnothcr year.
o
limn ivixi)-si:vi:in: imiost
Anicrlcnn Fork was lslted with a
high wind nnd soveio frost this week.
Tho big window In tho High Sehool
building would havo gone out but for
propping by students. Tho truck at
tho Intorurban wns blown around nnd
partly smashed.
Tho frost damaged the alfalfa and
homo of tho fruit, tlm thermometer
Betting down to 27 degrees)
o
VISITORS FROM CHINA
In Xnlho Costume nt Presbjlerlan
Church Sunday jrtirnlng.
Uvorybody Invited. Seldom Is such j
an opportunity presented In our small
1 city. Prof. Chester (1. Fuson, F. II. O
'S.. nnd family arrived on tho 12m
press of Asia, nt Vancouver one weolc
ngo from Canton, China, whore Prof
Fuson Is n momobr of the Faculty of
tho great Canton Christian Collego
whoro ho hns boon ongtysod for near,
ly cloven years. Coming to America
on n year's teavo of absence, thoy
aro stopping hero n week to visit tho
Meeker's, Mrs. Fuson being a slste
of Itov. John Meeker Several years
ago Prof. Fuson was a member of n
Carneglo Magnetic Kxpcdltlon that
penetrated tho far Intorlor of China
through Chlneso Turkestan and Into
India via tho gieat passes of tho Him
alaya Mountains exploring regions
whero Amerlcnns hud never been
seen. Prof. Fuson has also been en
gaged In tho trnnsalntlon nnd prepar
ation of text-books for cxtcnslvo use
In China. Prof. Fuson will speak on
tho great school work that Is develop
ing In Chlnn and h's own special work.
Mrs. Fuson, nlso In costumo will slug
hymns In Chinese, her volco being n'
ilch contralto. Tho thrco Fuson child
ren, nil boys, uro nlso expecting to
be neon In their Chlneso togs. Aftor
tho lecture a tablo spread with curios
and ClilnnKC needlework will bo nt
linnd for Inspection. Mr. Meekor hopes
Unit tho church may bo ciowdod for
this Instructive and entertaining hour
snd regrets that he himself li leav
ing before Sunday In order to attend
Onernl Asembly, meeting nt Atlantic,
City next week
in-Aii iiaxci: ii.w.i'
auspiciously opi:.m:i.
Monday witnessed tho oponlng of
tho "Utah on tho Luke," tho big dnnco
hall at tho Aniorlenn Fork I.nko no
sort, and nn auspicious opening it
was loo. Tho Kllto of tho city wns
out In force, nnd many auto loads "-j I
from Salt Lake, Provo and othor - j 1
places. Tho floor was voted ouo of j M
tho best In tho stnto mid tho mmiago. J?,
merit ulncd n host of friends by tho n
tuct nnd cou rosy shown his patrons. II
o N
NOTICE! I
American Folk. Utah, C-ll, 101C. M
Whorns tho cities nnd towns of H
Utnli uro oiitoring, what is known ns H
a cloon town contest, nnd our fair fl
city being favornbly located, with Its fl
many advantages and thilfty citizens. fl
Now, wo tho tiudcrfllgncd set apart fl
Monday, tho 1C day or Mny, nu n day 'gjj
for all cltlzons to clean up their ro- H
spectlvo lots nnd prenilsos, burn what fl
Is burnable tho balance enn bo hauled ff
to tho garbago yard. Also rako streets flfl
In front of premises mid ropnlr nil HJ
culverts. H
Tuesday, tho lfith trim shndo treoB, Bl
plow out and clean wnsto water ditch- fll
os. Wednesday, Thursday and Frldny flj
ropnlr fonces and out buildings nnd H
sco that same nro painted beforo Sat- U
urday, as tho commlttoo will Inspect M
nil districts on this day. fl
Itospcctfully, fl
Tho City Council, I
Hy John Hunter, Mnyor. 1
Automobile Contest Conies j
to a Successful Close I
Miss Lilly Singleton wins, with Mrs. Nellie I :'
Robinson second. Wo wish to thank tho can- I
didates and thoso who helped them to mako it I ,t
!a success. I J
Tho contest was tho largest and most ox- I ,
pensivo ono over brought before tho public of
I American Fork. I
We continue to solicit your patronage on I
tho principal of fair prices for tho best goods I
and courteous treatment to all. II
Briggs Pharmacy Co. I
SAN TOX DRUG STORE I
American Fork Telephone 99 t
