if I Today's Metal Prices T L A jfi a QWWiW A' I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
Nev York, May 13.-VSilver, 77 1-8c; -U J- 7, L WEATHER Utah: Tonight Fair; il
2 lead, $7.50; spelter, $17.00; copper, Cooler in North Portion, Frost; Sun- '1
limr, $28.7530.00. V - day Fair and Warf"er- tliH
; " FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. " H
I Forty-sixth Year No. 115. Price Five Cent3. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, MAY 13, 1916. . Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah. H
IA&ti4m 4T& WZ 1 X I
WW laJ III 13 71 .tflJl ill M HUH m i III I II ffi 13
-
. .
COLLAPSE CAME
Had Been Ailing But Illness
; Was IJct Considered
; ! Serious-
1 FUNERAL TO BE MONDAY
; Services to be Held in Taber-
ziacle Deceased Prominent
I in Affairs of Utah.
T vV.'il'iom Glpsmann, editor of
J til?1 Ogden Standard and one of the J
fa n.dst prominent figures in political af-
et lairs in Utah, and civic affairs in '
Ogden for many years, died yesterday i
3 afrnon ai his home 721 Twenty- (
jj fourth street His death was entirely
: unexpected and his lifeless body vas
J found in his study at the homo by
Mrs Glasmann, shortly bctore G j
o clock. Though almost completely i
' i dvercome by the 'shock of the discov
. i fry, Mrs. Glasmann summoned Dr. S.'
': ' . Eadcon, and after examining the
ibod. the physician expressed the
opinion that the well known publisher.
Lad been dead about a half hour and
that his demise was due to rheuma-.
tfeiu of tho heart.
,Mi. Glatmann was thrice mayor ofj
Ufcdcn, .once sneaker of the Utah
liqiihC of representatives and only re-l
citnlly transferred the business man-,
4 ;ignient-of 'the Standaid ta liis son
,t Roco(f.vnr order that he might free '
M himself from 'business caresand be-j
m come a candidate for the Republican
W nomination lor congressman lrom the,
rg l'ij-bt Congressional district. c I
;Ws Another ambition, the realization of,
J wfifcV,Msjde&tu . cicumvented,. walsl
; the construction of a'danV In South!
' Toik canyon to impound the flood
i " ators of the Ogden river for power j
i1 and vechunatlon purposes in Weber
county.
His heart interests, at all times
. I since he became a resident of the
j ! city, wero with Ogden and the power
I of his personality was a marked in-
tluence In the development of Ogden.
Despite his strenuous life, Mr. Glas-!
maun enjoyed apparent rugged
health, but duiing the past year had
at times been indisposed. With his
Ubual tenacity and strength which
i. 'arried him over many obstacles In
: his journey to success in life, it is
) thought he tought against the illness
i that was undermining him, not even
' confessing his condition to members'
of his family During the past week
; ho complained a little of rheumatic
I'alns hut kept up as usual, coining
to his office at the Standard in the
morning. Ho was at the Standard,
: Transacting business on Thursday aft-
. ernoon. About 1 o'clock Friday afler-
( aioon Mrs. Glasmann left him to visit
her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Jtoscoo
; Glasmann. Before leaving, however,
; Mrs. Glasmann asked her husband
.how he was felling and he replied
1 that he was -comfortable and would
L iPass the time reading while she was
;, I away, and urged his wife to go.
'. (When she returned home she went
? jJnto the study and was startled to see
' him lying on the coucn, his face
deathly pale. Shaking him slightly,
. she realized that death had come in
; her absence. She then summoned
the physician.
Jtoscoo Glasmann, business mana-
ger of the Standard, the publisher's
nlrlncf cnr rA ItI? rlniifylifflp TVff
Ethel Clark, were also called to the
; home and an Immediate effort was
made to get into communication with
J the three other sons, Abraham L.,
i William W. and Blaine Glasmann,
who were In Salt Lake City partlclpat-
V ing In the celebration of state High
T ischool day, at the University of Utah.
News of the death of their father was
received by the three absent sons,
1 through Its quick spreading over Salt
1 3-ako City, after It had been bulletined
"l in the windows of tho Salt Lake news-
'i paper offices, and they reached Og-
' den on tho first trains they could
'i .hoard
M Numerous telephone calls wero rc-
1 celved last night at the home and
J tho offico of the Standard from
(friends of Mr. Glasmann in all walks
J tof life, unwilling to believe the report
J ,of his death, and today condolences
'from prominent people of Utah and
j other slates were received by the
3 family.
Flags at Half Mast.
Out of respect to the late William
Glasmann, tho flags on the city hall
building and tho county court house
jt are at half mast, and the former May-
( or'a life-size photograph In the mayor-
alty picture gallery, on the walls of
the commissioners' chambers in the
city hall, is draped in mournlug.
Mayor A. R. Hoy wood remarked to
day that the bonrd of commissioners
I deeply regret the death or Mr. Glas
mann and said that at the opportune
time resolutions of respect and con
dolence will bo passed. Tho mayor
Bald:
"We consider Mr. Glasmann was
one of the greatest and broadest exe-
cutlves in the community, and we can
im .
not well afford to part with him."
Ex-Mayor A. G. Foil today expressed
deep regret over the death of Mr.
Glasmann and stated that his place
could hardly be filled.
"I found Mr: Glasmann to be one oT
the big men of the community," said
Mr. Fell, "and think no man ever
worked harder for the general good
than he. It is a heavy blow to his
family and to the community."
Funeral Monday.
Mr. Glasmann is survived by his
wife, Mrs. Evelyn Glasmann; two
sisters, Mrs. M.JH. Welse and Mrs.
Oscar Naekel of Davenport, Iowa;
two brothers, Columbus Glasmann of
Tucson. Arizona, and Frank Glasmann
of Iowa, and the following children '.
Ethel Glasmann Clark, wife of Charles
Clark, Roscoe, Abraham L., William
W. and Blaine Glasmann. all of Og
den. Ills brothers and sisters have
ibecn notified of his death.
Tho funeral will be held Monday,
at 2 p. m. In the Tabernacle.
Biographical Sketch.
William Glasmann, former mayor
of Ogden and former speaker of the
Utah legislature, was born in Daven
port, Iowa, November 12, I808, and
was the son of William and Catherine
Cramer Glasmann. His early life was
spent In his native state up to the
age of 13, receiving only the rudi
ments of a common school education.
He then became apprentice to the
saddlery trade, at Avoca, Iowa, serv
ing three years, after which he
worked as a journeyman at his trade
for several years, traveling over near
ly the entire counlry. In 1S78 ho en
- tercd into business at Helena and
Fort Benton, Montana, where he man
ufactured saddles and remained In
this business two years. In 1880 lie
went to Salt Lake City, and became
associated with John D. Lynch in the
real estate and loan business, pass
ing through the "boom" days.
In 1890 he entered into a new en
terprise which was not only now to
himself but new to this section of the
country that of raising the American
bison, or buffalo, on the shores of
Great Salt Lake, having Imported GO
head of buffaloes from Manitoba, Can
ada, which he increased to 110 and,
while thus engaged, he became Inter
ested In the Ogden Standard, and In
December, 1892, moved to Ogden and
.assumed the business management of
this journal, and i year later became
editor-'iu-chief, as well as manager,
.which position he occupied at tho
time or his death.
His newspaper career is well known
throughout the state. When he took
charge of tho paper in 1892 it was
badly run down and in poor financial
condition. The general tone of the
paper and its flunnces gradually in
creased under his able management.
In the Legislature.
Mr, Glasmann had been identified
with the political life of the stnte
under the banner of the Republican
.forces, and had taken much interest
In the work of that party. In 1898
he was a candidate for the state
legislature but was defeated by the
fusion ticket, or Bryan wave, which
swept the country at that time. In
1900 ho was elected to the house
branch of the legislature, running
ahead -o--th-McKlnloyr electors,. .serv-
r
ing two years and, was tho unan
imous choice of the Republican cau
cub ?ov the speaker of the house.
During this period he made a phenom
enal record for just and fair rulings
and he was the first speaker of the
Utah legislature, whose decislous
were never reversed by the body of
the house.
Before his legislative term expired,
Mr, Glas.maun received the unanimous
nomination of his par.ty for tho office
of mayor lie did not desire the of
fice, but could not refuse his party's
call and, after a spirited contest, he
was elected by a majority of 330
votes, "tho largest majority over giv
en up to that time to a mayoralty
candidate in Ogden running on party
HneB and he was the only Republican
mayor elected in Ogden In a long
period of years.
Twice after he was elected to servo
as mayor of Ogden.
As mayor of Ogden he insisted on
economy and strict business methods.
Ho believed the public business
should bo conducted with tho honesty
and tact of private business and for
the benefit of the whole pepple. lie
was absplutely fearless and did what
ho thought was right, regardless of
tho consequences.
In 1897, David Eccles offered to
subscribe $50,000 toward building a
sugar factory, if the citizens would
raise $350,000. The business men's
association undertook to raise the
money, but abandoned the proposition
and it waB Immediately taken up by
Mr. Glasmann who personally -visited
theeoplet made public addresses in
. ov.er.precinct in iha county and Jn
30 days' time tho whole sum was ob
tained and the mammoth Ogden sugar
factory stands as a monument to his
push and energy.
In 1900 he was a candidate for
member of congress on the Republi
can ticket
Ho was made postmaster on Au
gust 2, 190C) serving until January
31, 1909.
Mr. Glasmann was a thirty-second
degree Mason, a member of the Salt
Lake consistory, also a Knight Temp
lar, Shriner and a member of Ogden
lodge No. 2, Knights of Pythias. He
was also one of the founders of the
Weber club.
In 1912 he led the Roosevelt move
ment in tho state of Utah, and was
a mighty factor In carrying Weber
county for the Progressives. He re
turned to the Republican party at the
ne.xt election and did much to hold
the county in Hue for Senator Reed
Smoot and the entire Republican
ticket.
At the time of his death he was
strongly supported for the Congres
sional nomination in this district.
oo
ROBBERS KILL
TWO PATROLMEN
Detroit, May 13. In a fight with
robbers who attempted to hold up a
candy storekeeper here early today
Leland Alexander, a patrolman, was
shot and killed and Cornelius Ryan,
another omprolmaoi was wounded.
GENERAL CARRANZA DESPATCHES I
TROOPS NORTH TO THE BORDER I
Reports Expedition May Have Hostile Intent Toward United '
States Not Regarded Seriously by Administration Author- i
ities at Washington Arredondo Wires Mexico for '1
Further Instructions Gen. Funston Planning '1
Disposition of Regulars and National ill
Guards. il
Washington, May 13. Dispatch of I 1
1,500 Carranza troops northward to- 1
ward the border in the Eig Bend dis
trict of Coahulla, reported in border 1
advices, was regarded by officials i
here today as possibly indicating that
the Mexican de facto government is
making renewed efforts to capture
bandits who have raided American
border towns. Reports that the ex
pedition might have a hostile purpose
were not regarded seriously by ad
ministration authorities.
They intimated that the action tend
ed to strengthen the belief that Amer
ican and Mexican military authorities
at El Paso had reached an unwritten
agreement on co-operation along the
border to prevent further bandit raids.
General Carranza has given no in
dication, Special Agent Rodgers at
Mexico City reported today, of renew
ing immediately through diplomatic
channels his suggestion that American
troops be withdrawn from Mexico.
Ellseo Arredondo, his ambassador
hore, telegraphed yesterday for in
structions to guide him in informal
conversations he expects to have with
Secretary Lansing.
Major General Scott, chief of staff,
will reach here Monday from El Paso
and confer with Secretary Lansing
on the proposals by Gen. Obregon.
Consular dispatches today said the
only Mexican troop movements of im
portance on the border region were
the dispatch of forces from Sonora
Into the Yaqui valley, where Indians
are threatening new outbreaks and
the movement of parts of the Saltillo
garrison into the Big Bend vicinity
to check bandit raids.
An order issued today by the war
department permitting Gen. Pershing
to appoint general courts martial to
try cases arising among the troops
without the necessity of sending them
back to the border is taken as further
inculcation of the determination of
the administration to maintain the
expedition in its present status in
definitely. State department advices today said
Zapata forces were again active in the
territory around Mexico City and
Morelos state. Their presence was
said to have increased agitation
among the natives and foreign resi
dents. Another dispatch said the num
ber of independent bands roaming
through Mexico conducting guerrilla
warfare and plundering properties ap
peared to be steadily growing.
General Scott advised the' war de
partment late today that he had as
surances from General Obregon that
orders had been given to concentrate
the forces of the de facto government
in the vicinity of Parral and on the
Mexican side of the border In the Big(
Bend country. General Bliss, acting
chief of staff, said he understood the
Mexican forces would be of sufficient
strength to "clean out" Villa bandits
and factional outlaws in those seo
tlons. rn 5
FRENCH POSITIONS
The Douaumont region on the Ver
dun frpnt where the Germans for more
than two months past have been held
fairlv close to the line of their origi
nal advance in the February drive, is
again the scene of desperate fighting.
Violent bombardment of French po
sitions in that sector yesterday was
followed by strong attacks, in which,
according to the afternoon bulletin
from Paris, the Germans suffered
heavy losses and failed to gain any
ground.
The resignation of Dr. Clemens Dcl
brueck, German vice-chancellor and
11 I.. A. i ah Irt nnnAllTIOM
minisior oi iuu immiui, ia """"""
from Berlin. Ill health is given as the
reasc. Dissatisfaction has been
widelv expressed in Germany recently
with the ministerial handling of the
food situation was an outgrowth of
which riots have been reported and
there have been hints recently that
the resignation of Dr. Delbrueck was
Imminent.
Paris. May 13, 12-30 p. m. Tho
French trenches southwest of Fort
Douaumont and positions to tho.north
of tho Thlaumont farm were violently
bombarded vesterday, according to of
ficial report of the French war offico
today. The report says that all ot
the German attacks wore repulsed, the,
enemy sustaining serious losses. On
the left bank" of the Meuse artillery
combats continue uninterrupted.
The text of the statement says:
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
artillery combat continued without in
terruption In the sectors of the woods
of Avocourt and hill 304. During the
night we realized -further progress In
the vicinity of hill 2S7.
Violent Bombardments.
"On the right bank the Germans
renewed yesterday their attacks on
our trenches southeast of Fort Douau
mont. In spito of tho violence of the
bombardment which preceded the on
omy assaults our line did not waver.
All attacks were repulsed .with ser
ious losses for the onomy. Other at
tempts during the night upon our posi
tions north of Thlaumont farm were
likewise arrested by our curtain of
firo and machine guns. x
"At Eparges a strong German rocon-
iioltoring. Bajrty, yihicK Aor.. a- h0D
bardment, attempted to reach our i
ines, was unable to debouch. iflH
"In the forest of Parroy and at H
Ban de Sapt there was quite a lively H
cannonade." jH
Berlin, May 13, Wireless to Sayville. H
The repulse of a night attack by the
French southwest of Dead Man hill on H
the Verdun front is reported in to- IH
day's official statement by the war IH
office. Attempts by the French to jH
advance in the Avocourt and Malan- lH
court woods also were frustrated. IH
The text of the official statement lH
by German army headquarters today IH
reads H
"Western theater: Between tho H
Argonne and the Meuse there have IH
been lively hand grenade engagements H
at isolated points. Enemy attempts H
to gain terrain, in tho Avocourt and H
Malancourt woods were frustrated. An H
enemy attack during the night south- H
west of Dead Man hill was stopped H
by the fire of the German infantry. 'Il
French Suffer Losses. 'H
"The French suffered considerable
losses on the east bank of the Meuse
in a fruitless attack on the quarry vM
west of the Ablain wood. Jl
"A German battle aeroplane shot
down a hostile biplane above the J
Bourguignon wood, southwest of Laon.
A British aeroplane, on May 1L was M
brought down by German defensive j
fire southwest of Armentierres jl
"Eastern theater: North of the rail- i
way station at Selburg, the Russians i
attempted an attack against the tren-
ches recently captured by us, but were
stopped while initiating it More than jH
100 Russians wero taken prisoner." M
ftGADEM DEBSTIMG I
WIMS 1 STUTE I
WEST I
The Weber academy debating tt, M
composed of Leland Evans, X. J iJ
Young, Ernest Wilkinson and Fran c M
lin Richards, returned home this J
morning from Salt Lake City, cham- M
pions of the Utah State High school IH
debating league, having won seven jJ
straight victories, six with unanimous H
decisions and one by a 2 to 1 vote of j M
tho judges. The 2 to 1 vote was cast ( H
last night at the close of the Weber- ( H
ites debate against the Carbon coun- H
tv high school, at the University of H
Utah, and the Ogden quartette H
brought the silver loving cup home H
with them as the evidence of their su- H
perior debating ability. There wero H
forty schools represented in the elimi- H
nation and final debates. M
Ben Young secured second place in H
the state extemporaneous speaking ,H
contest last night, being defeated by H
Miss Brlnton of the Latter-Day Saints jH
university, and Douglass Leishman, :H
also of Weber academy, won second jH
place in the state declamation contest. IH
Mr. Leishman returned with the de- ilH
baters, the party being in charge of H
Profs. David Wilson and T. Earl Par H
no ' H
irar MY TO BE I
CELEBRATED DT I
oni I
Mother's day will be fittingly ob- H
served tomorrow at tho Orpheum the- ijH
atre with an appropriate program he- IH
ginning at 2:30 o'clock p. m. Those 'H
wishing to give in any old person's H
name will notify Mrs. David Eccles, 'H
chairman of the transportation com- !H
mittee and they will be called for IH
and taken tothe Orpheum in automo- IJH
biles. IH
The program follows: llH
Program. M
Musical Selection. Orpheum Orchestra 'H
Invocation Rev. George E. Lowe VM
Tenor solo, "Mother o' Mine" !H
Kipling HH
Mr." Villain H. Manning. jH
Contralto solo, "Songs My Mother PH
Used to Sing" ihH
Miss Rosalie Ilolbcrg. VM
Address Rev. P A. Slmpkln jUH
Soprano solo, "Dear Old Ma" llH
Miss Anna Williamson. HH
Vocal Selection... Criterion Quartette iH
TABLEAUX. H
Seven Ages of Womanhood. , H
Childhood-Lillian Sbeehan, Laura m
and Lorene Wattls, Dorothy Agee. m
Geneve Moyes, Ruth Craven Fran- m
cis Hobbs, Thelma and Georgia Goa- H
Girlhood-Josephine Volker, Vera H
Wright, and Beatrice Brewer. IH
Brlde Flora Ecoles. 'H
MotherhoocT Mrs. Ralph Farr. tm
Family A. L. Brewor. H
Four Generations Martha A. Forrin, H
Josiah L. Ferrin, Joseph L. Ferrin H
and Edith Ferrin. H
Grandmother Mrs. Harriet S. Enier- iH
son. , . pH
UBhers Home Economics Club of BH
nWe,ber. af ademy. H
