THE DONALDSONVILLE CIIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1916. NUMBER 41.
NEWI S OF THE PHIOTOPLAYS
I( ( onini Attr:actions at the Local Movie Houses
iY!~ 1#X
!I cI-.e--. -- . - -------- - --
"The Thoroughbred."
Today'- ;att.action at the Gem w':l
I r ,'hlred," a vital tdrania L
of iii' natioi in five acts of dasiir" a;
ad.en,u, and smashing c!imaxes, o
whcii, ti:e pcine ... parts tare por
travct by the opo,..r screen starl,
William 1iusseil :1 (Charlotte Bu.- h i
ton, BriViiy told. , st:(riy is as fl. tu
In order to recover recent losses
and be able to propose to Angela
Earle, Klcbo Hamilton plunges heavi- 1'.
ly in stocks and is ruined. Angela of- m
fers Kelso her fortune and he is so w
carried away that he reveals the secret gi
of his love and promises to go west mn
and make good. George Carewe, g.
Earle's secretary, hopes to make An- t.
gela his wife, although he has been P.
garrying on a clandestine love affair le
with Jessie Cook, Angela's maid. Jes
,ie's father finds entrance to Carewe's rt
r'oom, and in a stiuggle Carewe's valet P
falls and Cook realizes that he is a
murderer. He slips into the smoking tl
room, where' the men have gathered 41
for a game of poker, hides behind the n
curtain and sees Carewe hide cards in f'
Hamilton's smoking jacket. Later
C';'ewe :iccuses HaImilton of cheating,
jns.ns that he be searched, and the
evidence is so plain that Angela's
father demands that the engagement n
bie broken. Hamilton takes the lim
itie to the west, and at a way station
the train is held up by iinadi'ts. Ham
ilton becomes involved with one of
.them, and is about to be shot, when ,
Cook, who has been riding on the
brat.c-beams of the train, crawls from o
under the car, saves his life and im- n
;itediately recognizes him as the man
YrVonfffully accused of card-cheating. i,
Jn the pieartime Earle h:ts purchased 1
mintinll property near H-lamilton's
ranch, eal tlirough the manager, who
is a personal f:iedi, Carevvwe succeeds
in dcpreciatin't the value of the stock
.; that he is able to buy it in. Earle
js ;i'amed lIy hi: 'iem'is for their
Jos.:,, r ;2t'l he ti :es lii: family and
f(,mia w.': to ml.ple a pe;'ional investi
gailon. C(areYe's knamemy has work
c the iMexican miners into such a
i v nzy tiat lhey nidke ::1 attack upon
in ib miana ei'e s .o .c. 1 sa' y shot
hits thi- mwier aioa e and the ex
plosiuon attracts the attention of Ham
ilton and his men, whoa ride toward the
scene. Hamlniltaon r!esctles a woman
aohl hmid, she is Angela. At the same
mine ,Cook learns that the valet who
stunned. Tie tells the story that
clears 11amiiton of card-cheating, and
HaImilton and Angela at e once more
united.
Noted Beauty in Pictures,
Kitty Gordoin, for years a noted
beauty of the stage, will ibe seen for
the first time on the as'reen in the
new World Film production, "As in'
a Looking Glass," at the Gem Thea
tre tomorrow. Miss Gordon's stat
uesque type of beauty proved to be
admirably adapted to the require
ments of motion pictures, and the
directors of the World Film Corpora
tion unhesitatingly announce that
with her first appearance as a film
actress Miss Gordon will become in
stantly recognized as the loveliest of
screen stars.
The story of "As in a Looking
Class," adapted from the novel of the
:mce name by F. C. Phillips, provides
Mi:ss (Gordon with opportunities for
remarkable emotional acting, as well
as for the dis:play of a succession of
the most dazzling creations of the
modiste's and milliner's art. The
greater p1art of the action occurs in
Washington, 1). C., in diplomatic cir
cles, affording" splendid chances for
brilliant costuming and scenic em
bellishment. A synopsis of the play
follows:
Lila Despard is a fascinating ad-i
vsnturess who enslaves, with her
charms. every man she meets. Jack,
heli partner, living on her money, is
forced to leave France to escape
punishment for a crime, and drags
with himn the unhappy Lila.
()i the boat she fascinates Sena
tor C;,ales. a:nI o!d aristocrat, and is
jea:lously hInted by his fussy little
KITTY GORDON
wife. Livin eston. of the United
State:; Iliplomatic :.ervice, is also very
much attlrictd by; hber -:ndi has need
of all of his w'ill-power to re:lain true
to the girl to whom he is engaged.
Lila hecomes dis.' uast.d with Jr. ek';
continual bet-pging. anli one evenincg.
after a violent sce;e, she leaves him.
Spies in lhe employ of a foreign
gover'nmee.t Fare ii:nious to obtain
nationm:1 s ecreti i' om Livingr"ston: and
slhadow and attack him, Ilt to no
avail, Dtio.rulit ,if, at the he:d of
them, recoginizes in Lila --, n torious
Monte Carlo woman of years ago.
HIe also recognizes in her a tool by
which to obtain Livinl:ston's secrets.
To avoid an exposure of her past life,
Lila promises to use her charms to
extract from Livingston government
al plans.
y ilever sche, ino-g sihe leads Miss
":ce. Livingston's intended, to break
. LeyII caemenlt, and the "injured"
.n., na 'ally, tur!.·n for comfort
,o Lila. Quicly hi:: feeling for her
l..,: and h: asks her to be his
:.c. o ealizinig that she truly loves
him, :-n l r:ear'dles of her promise
to ,i.omtiroff', she accents his pro
J:ck, completely down and out,
,!e :ds of Lila's approaching marriage.
lF'uious. he rushes her away from a
maskik ba! and demafids that she go
with him. She finally manages to
get rid of him by promising to get
money from one of her lovers and
go with him the next day. After
tricking Dromiroff with fake papers,
presumably government secrets, Lila
leaves with Livingston.
After a few ideally happy days of
mariied life, Jack appears and ex
poses Lila's past life. Livingston re
fuses to believe it. but Lila realizes
that all is over, and, remorseful and
despairing, drinks poison, leaving a
note for Livingston telling of her love
for him.
"Neptune's Daughter" Coming to
Gem.
The coming engagement of An
nette Kellermann in "' Neptune's
Daughter " is exciting keen interest
among local theatregoers, for the
very good reason that Miss Keller
:nann is a general favorite, and be
cause "Neptune's Daughter" is some
thing out of the ordinary in the way
of film entertainment. As a mer
maid, favorite daughter of Neptune,
Miss Killermann has added new lau
rels to her already brilliant score, for
here she is given an opportunity for
- . a m e m m a m
i :
10
flx_ ,.
ORRIN JOHNSON AS THE WAGE EARNER AND GLADYS BROCKWELL
AS HIS WIFE IN "THE PnICE OF pQWrER," A T RIANGLE-1NE ARTS
PLAY DEALING WITH THE CAPITAL, 4CiD LABOR PROBLEM.
.\T THE GEM TJ1EATRE--SATUPDAY, MAY 20.
. . . . . m lm .,nm w .nn .n nm m lu
oe ii ast time to exercise a dramatic
hi'ity that enhances the beauty of
ner aquatic skill.
Not o ya does this rare film ex
ploit the grace and charm of Miss
Kiclermann, but it brings into prom
inence screen stars already famous
for their artistic productions in this
country ahd in Europe. Notable
among these are Leah Baird, William
E. Shay, William Welsh, and that
most finished actor and director, Her
bert Brenon. The interpretation
these artists have given the whole
;ome and diverting story has been a
;abject of the most favorable com
:neat; and the obvious delight with
,,hich the audience enters into the
spirit of this imaginative story is it
eilf a tribute alike to the author and
the producer. w
"Neptune's Daughter" will be seen
at the Gem Theatre Sunday, May 21.
instead of tomorrow, as previously
annoutnced.
"The Upstart" and Vaudeville at the
Grand Tomorrow.
"The Upstart," a five-part Metro
feature production with Marguerite
Snow in the stellar role, and featuring
George Le Guere, will be shown at the
Grand Theatre tomorrow. 'Miss Snow
will be seen as Beatri: e Mitchell,
minister's wife, a role t .;saicablt cmui
ed to her splendid talents. George
Le Guere, whose work in "Destiny, or
The Soul of A Woman," ranks as one
of his best chiiar: :.ertions, will
have the role of Coventry Petmore,
the "upstart," whio iha; become a
fBa:;.ti: upo, the di:otee question.
"'he 'nstart" i:;s a satirical com
ed:-,drh: m:. by. Thoi , mi Barry, which
Senjoyedi ai a.,cessful run as a play
lt the :,;:: i Elliott Theatre in New
'Yok ct;i and on a .i". It was pro
ruced' faor Aetro by Rolfe Photo
laeys, Inc.. a'id was directed by Ed
win C.: rewst Who also directed "Des
tiny, or The Soil. of A Woman," and
other Met po wonderplays. There are
many st'rong situations,- lending con
trast to the delightful humor, which
is sustained throughout.
In conneect with the film offer
ing, Jim Leslie and Maud Adams, a
talented team of vaudevillians, will
are rarely found in any detective sl
story. The trial leads from the hum- tl
ble widow's cottage to the home of a oi
powerful man, who stands high in the is
government. Before the story ends,
six important persons are suspected d
of the murder and the situations that al
arise are fascinating and thrilling to tc
the highest degree. it
Lou Tellegen in "The Unknown." 0
Lou Tellegen, the internationally "
famous romantic star who for several "
years was leading man for PMme.
Sarah Bernhardt, will make his sec
ond appearance before local playgoers
in an elaborate production entitled
The UTnknown," which comes to the
G'rand Wvedvnesday. It is a picturiza
tion of 1. A,. R, Wylie's widely-read
Inovel entitled. "The Red Miirage."
Just as ~Ir. Tellegen's first feature
play by the ,Lasky Company, "The Ex
plorer," took him into the African
wilds, "The Unknown" leads him into
a romance of the desert. He por
trays a young Englishman left penni
less by disinheritance in an army post
on the edge of the desert. An Armer
ican girl takes an interest in him.
He and the colonel of the regiment,
which he joins under an assumed
nmr', ore in love with the girl. She
ae. the youngnr Englishman from
Ipu.is:_imen tad e-'entually elopes
i ith h:im·. In the u::avelling of the
tiol:,, ,: f .mily roe!tionship is found
~. .::: t btw;ee, the ,-oung soldier and
his coo The ending is a happy
o _~ rrntion of matrny thrilling ad
Sventures.
Besides the star the cast includes
Theodore Roberts and Dorothy Daven
port.
"Madame X" Makes Screen Debut.
i.'iadtame X." Alexander Bisson's
great drama will be presented in pie
tures at the Grand next Thursday.
Dorothy Donnelly's magnificent in
terpretation on the stage of the 'wo
man who drifted in search of love is
duplicated on the screen. The skill
with which Miss Donnelly handles the
difficult role is an artistic revelatibn.
There are no sudden transformations
1 (Continued on page four.)
entertain the patrons of the hGranda
with a lively singing and dancing
sketch entitled, "A Night with the
Shoew Folk."
"Jane" a Grouch Chaser.
Grant, who have been known for many
Charlotte Greenwood and Sydney
moons in "big time" vaudeville, do
some of the cleverest work of their
carepr in "Jane," a picturization of
the celebrated Charles Frohman com
edy of the same name, which comes
to the Grand next Monday.
Charles Shackelton needs the money
which would come to him from his
uncle provided he is married. How
ever, his sweetheart's father raises an
objection, and it is the incidents that
follow Charley's trying to find a
temporary wife during the time his
uncle is in town that cause the many
laughable situations in this produc
tion.
"The Family Stain."
The Fox feature at the Grand Tues
day will be "The Family Stain," a
thrilling detective story founded on
Emile Gaboriau's famous novel, "The
Widow Lerouge." Frederick Perry,
one of the most distinguished actors
of the day, plays the leading part,
.nd is supported bytan unusually ca
pable and well-balanced cast.
The Widow Lerouge, a strange wo
mah who lived several years in a
small community, one morning is
found murdered in her home. The
local polic4 find the situation too big
for them to cope with, whereupon an
amateur detective, an old man of
wealth named Talbert, is sent for and
begins to unravel the mystery. Such
Staigle of complications as ensue
PUBLIC PRINTING LAWS.
I Suggestions For Their Amendment Made By the Louisiana
Press Association-Publicity a Cure For Most Public
d Service Evils-Legislative Committee Appointed.
During the month of January last !
President Leo DeCoux of the Louisi
ana Press Association, complying with
the instruction given him by that body I
at its Monroe session in June. 191.
appointed a l islative committee to c
which was intrusted the duty of ex- t
amining the Louisiana laws in relation I
to public printing, legal and judicial
advertising, etc., and considering al
number of suggestions for needed re- I
forms in these laws formulated by the
executive comimittee of the associa- t
tion. t
The members designated for ser- I
vice on the legislative committee!
were Francis 1 L. Knobloch of the -
Thibodaux Commercial-Journal, chair- I
man; John Dymond of the Louisiana I
Planter, New zOrleans; Francis J.
Whitehead of the West Baton Rouge
Sugar Planter, Port Allen; Win. F.
Roy of the St. Bernard Voice, Arabi,
and Conrad J. Lecoq of the Pointe
Coupee Banner, New Roads.
At the final session of the press
convention's annual reunion last week
at Baton Rouge, the following report
was submitted by this committee arnd
unanimously adopted:
" : * It is evident that co-opera
tion among ourselves is the first step.
Our misfortune has been that we
have not been united. We have been
to a great extent partisans, and have
ever been ready to serve the other fel
low, rather than ourselves.
"'We suggest that relief and read
justment of remuneration is impera
tive with the advanced cost of ma
terial; that publicity is a safety
valve and the proverbial ounce of
preveution for the cure of the major
portion of public service evils.
"We want to attain our ends sole
ly in a legal and dignified manner,
and want to properly serve the public
.'o. proper remuneration.
-'" sw .: uggest that our laws be
..aonded :ad re-enacted so as to
nma!e dfinite for all time the ques
tion of remuneration; that all arms
of the different subdivisions of gov
-: ement should be compelled to make
public their stewardship by the pub
ic, anon of their proceedings-that is,
cihoi boards, police juries, boards of
izaith and the municipalities; that
ie;kl of police juries, clerks of court, t
lerks of boards of aldermen should'
monthly publish warrants they issue,
amount and purpose for which issued;
,hat treasurs should make public
kia lists of po taxes e y s -
iTis withclerks of court within ten I
!avs after the first of each year
hould be published annually for
mintety days, so that names omitted
for any reason might be given prop
w recourse or remedy, and said pro
tnulgation should be considered the
officia list; that each receipt issued
for poll tax should be consecutively
numbered as issued, and the original
number and date of issue should ap
-ear in said publication; that in all
>arishes the names of voters remov
ng from the parish, or from one ward
to another, should on affidavit made
by two qualified voters of the ward
or parish, be published, and if after
tlhirty da. s' publication no complaint
oe imade, the names should he strick
en from the rolls, and the list of
names so removed be published in a
:ewspaper for another thirty days.
"i hat in all litigation where, ab
sent ecr fisgure or are made parties de
fendant, notice should be published
by the clerk of court to the effect that
suit has been filed, giving the name
of the absentee, the title and number
of the cause, the title of the court,
and the name' of the curator ad hoc
appointed to represent the absentee,
said publication to be for ten days.
"The promulgation of local laws
should be effected by publication in
the official state organ and the official
organ or organs of the districts, par
ishes or municipalities affected.
"In conclusion, we recommend that
due and proper publicity be given to
all matters in which the public is in
terested by consecutive publication
in newspapers which have been in ex
istence not less than two years; that
official printing contracts be made for
not less than two years instead of one
year; that a committee on legislation
and publicity be appointed by the
pre-ident of this association yearly 'to
inquire into such matters, and to see
o C
c
Stylep i17
SClothes TRADE MAR RETEE
"The same price the world over;
ADOLPHE NETTER
$1e _ _
that they are fairly and properly pre
sented and carried out with due re
gard to the common interest of the
public and the press."
By unanimous vote the new presi
dent of the Louisiana Press Associa
tion, Mrs. J. Vol Brock of the Frank
linton Era-Leader, was authorized
and directed to appoint as the legis
lative and publicity committee Chas.
P. Manship of the Baton Rouge State
Times, chairman; W. D. Robinson of
the New Orleans Facts, secretary, and
the members of the association who
are also members of the newly-elect
ed general assembly, as follows: Sen
ators John Dymond of the Louisiana
Planter and C. M. Cunningham of the
Natchitoches Times, Representatives
Winm. F. Roy of the St. Bernard Voice,
J. P. Kent of the Minden Signal
Democrat and E. L. Simmons of the
Louisiana Advance, Breaux Bridge.
This committee is requested to use its
efforts and influence towards secur
ing the changes in the public printing
laws comprised in the above report.
GET THE SPIRIT, GOOD FOLK!
Every Citizen Should Buy a Key and
Boost the Fair.
To the People of Donaldsonville:
Having been informed of the great
success which attended the advance
sale of opening day keys by the Dal
las (Texas) Fair Association, (more
than 100,000 keys having been dis
posed of during the four months pre
ceding the fair), the management of
the South Louisiana Fair determined
to try the experiment in Donaldson
ville. One thousand keys were the:e
fore ordered with the hope and ex
pectation that sufficient booster spirit
(just a little of the Dallas spirit wh'ch
helps build cities) could be aroused
to dispose of the keys in time to du
plicate the order one or more times
before the fair, October 5-8. At this
point, permit me to say that no one
has received or will receive one cent
in commissioh on the sale of the keys,
and that the proceeds from their sale
is not being used for current expenses
but is being set aside and kept intact
- -:_1.. 11-.] .. +i- -fc r~no lnnnvrfi r M
the coring fair.
Now, in order that we may succeed
in our efforts, it is necessary that we
have the full and cordial co-operation
of the business men and the general
people imbibe some real booster spirit
and call liberally for the keys. It is
a difficult if not an impossible matter,
if a few of us "are compelled to see
and urge each person individually to
take a key. The movement can never
succeed that way. It will drag, in
terst will wane and finally die out.
There must be spontaneous and gen
erous action on the part of the people.
The merchants should as they did
in Dallas buy a number of the keys
and give them as premiums with pur
chases. Every father should buy one
for his wife and each member of his
family. Every bachelor should buy
two. Every boy should buy one for
his girl. All who can afford it should
send them to distant relatives. No
one should be seen on the streets
without a key, day or night. Only in
,ome such way as this can the real
boo3tor spirit- be aroused and the fair
be made the big success it deserves.
No one man nor set of men, how
ever hard they may work, can make
permanent success of an institution
such as a fair. The co-operation of
the whole community is needed---and
I mean real, active, willing co-opera
tion. It is necessary that you believe
in your fair and work for it. It is
that spirit which has made the Dallas
fair grow in twenty years from one
smaller than ours into, one of the
largest in the world,, which is attend
ed annually by more than a million
people.
Very truly yours,
,. S. VICKERS.
Rich man, poor man, beggar man,
thief,
Doctor, lawyer, Indian chief
SAll should wear a booster key
And give the fair publicity.
} Now is the time to declare war on
t he fly.
p 7/
The Cup That
Cheers Most
is the cuS that is the most wholesome---for unpleas
ant after-efects can mar the keenest pleasure.
With the usual hot table drink, whether it be
coffee or tea, there results to many persons an incon
venience in health which calls for a change.
Insant Postum
is rapidlyflling this table want, and in a way satis
factory to taste, comfort and enjoyment.
The rich, mellow flavour of Instant Postum
closely reimbles that of mild Java coffee, and its
t absolute ity makes it a prime favorite of both
parents a children.
Insta~ Postumi is quickly prepared at table, a
cup at a ime. Simply place a level teaspoonful of
it then sti a cream and sugar to taste. o w e.
". Thire's a Reason"
for POSTUM
id - At Grocers everywhere.
rS ý
MOVIE STARS -MAKE MERRY.
Celebrities of 'Silent Irama Gather P:
at San Diego Exposition.
Motion picture stars had a gala
time at the `Panama-California In- L
ternational Exposition last Saturday i1
and Sunday. The exposition gave a p
"motion picture ball" on the evening sc
of May 6, and the grand march was s(
led by Miss Edna Goodrich and 'Dus- a
tin Farnum. Sunday the visiting tl
film stars gave a special program at p
the exposition's big outdoor pipe or- a
gan, and in addition to a number of e
special stunts, Miss Myrtle Stedman b
sang several solos. b
Prominent .among those who were a
guests were: Ruth Roland, Jackie
Saunders, Ielen HIolmes, George r
Walch, Gladys Brockwell, William o
Farnum, Dustin Farnum, Myrtle p
Stedman, Edna Goodrich, Gertrude Ii
Selby, Mary Anderson, Norma Tal
madge, Fay Tincher, Eddie Dillon, p
Constance Talmadge, Mae Marsh, }
Douglass Fairbanks, Blanche Sweet, p
Bessie Barriscale, Clara Williams, li
Francilia Bilington, Warren Kerri
gan, Charles i' urray, Anna Luther,
Ford Sterling, Mable Normand, Mar
garet Gibson, Marion Sais, Kathlyn I
Williams, Victoria Ford, Eugenia
Ford, Tom Mix, Audrey Munson, Wal- I
lace Reid, Mollie Schaeffer, Arthur
Shirley, Louise Orth, DeWolf Hop- J1
.er, Mack Sennett, I). W. Griffith,
li obrt Bosworth, Oleo Madison, J. 1
Barney Sherry, Ada Gleason and
others. t.
POINTS THE WAY.
The Statement of This Belle Rose Res
ident Will Interest Our Readers.
Our neighboring town, Belle Rose,
points the way in the words of one of I
its most respected residents:
D. S. LeBlane, justice of the peace.
Belle 1Rose, 14~, says: "I was in a
pretty bad way with kidney disease.
Sometimes the kidney secretions were
uninatural and irregular in passage.
My back was stiff and painful. I had
dizzy spells also. Uri acid tilled my
system and my left arm became so
stiff I couldn't move it. I used
many different remedies, but without 1
avail. Doan's Kidney Pills, however, I
helped me from the first. They
strengthened my kidneys, and re
moved the pain in my back. The
rheumatic pains in my arms and shoul
der gradually left me. I have beet,
well now for a long time, although I
cccasicnally take a box of Doan's Kid
ney Pills as ai;preventive."
Price 5_qents at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get
Doan's Kidney Pills--the same that
Mr. LeBlanc: bad. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y.--(Adv.)
You have tfbe 21 to vote, but not
I so when it comes to wearing a fair
I key.
VETERAN EDITOR HONORED.
Press Gang Commemorate a Member's
Eightieth Natal Anniversary.
Hion. John Dymond, editor of the
Louisia.na Planter, state senator from
!th Orleans-Plaquemines district, past
president of the Louisiana Press As
sociation and National Editorial As
sociation, etc., etc., arrived at the
age of "eighty years: young" during
the meeting of the Louisiana newspa
per folk at Baton Rouge last week,
and his colleagues signalized "the
i event by presenting him with a bronze
basrelief portrait of himself executed
by Miss Edith Maier of Baton Rouge,
a talented art student at the Sophie
Newcomb College, New OrleAns. Mr.
Dymond had received no intimation
of the "stunt," and his perfect sur
prise and feeling response added no
little to the gratification of his asso
ciates and the impressiveness of the
presentation. Dr. E. L. Stephens, of
Lafayette, tendered the gift on the
part of the association in a talk spark
ling with wit, humor and pathos, and
Mrs. Ella Bentley Arthur contributed
the following poem for the occasion:
I think it was a lucky May
Just eighty years ago,
That brought you here one lucky dly
For us to love and know;
To guide your brothers of the quill
And teach us all the while
To meet alike the good and ill
John Dymond, with a smile.
You've fathered and befriended us,
You've helped us to progress,
And we are glad to offer thus
The tribute of the Press
t'hat Newcomb art has molded here
Through future years to last,
i The features that we all revere
1 I Upon a plaster cast.
} f is our gift in token of
The zeal---the worth--the truth
Of one whom Time has led with love
Through eighty years of youth.
An"d with it goes our wish-good
cheer!
yi Another score or two,
o 6 And us to greet you year by year. ......
d .Jofhn [)ymo~td, here's to you!
rt -- --- -------A-l--glr
FEEBLE, AGED WOMAN
Says Vinol Made Her Strong
! Grand Saline, Texas.-"I am an aged
woman and for a long time was weak
I and feeble but Vinol restored my health
i- and strength so that I feel almost young
again and am doing all my housework.
i't Old people who are weak and feeble
et should try Vinol and know its merits as
at I do. It is the best medicine to create
n strenth and for chronic colds I have
ever taken."-Mrs.FANNIE E. RQpOE3,
Vinol, our delicious cod liver and iron
rot tonie,is sold on our guarantee to benefit
air or your money will be returned.
X-Ray Pharmacy, Donaldsonville, La.
