Oim fiiAlE
UNIViKOITY
MAYl ol916
1RRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Vol. IV. No. 4
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MAY 13, 1916
One Dollar a Year
The Cincinnati Speedway
Contract Given to An Out -of -Town Contractor, Who Employs Scab
Labor, By the Very Members of the Chamber of Commerce Who
Are Always Shouting For Us to "Buy in Cincinnati." The De
mand for a Big Parade Labor Day, Was Brought About by the
Fact That the City Administration Is Fighting Union Labor, and
Their Object for Giving the Municipal Picnic on Labor Day Was
To Injure the Parade.
Republican County Ticket
Selected by the Advisory Board. Some of the Candidates
Are All Right, and Some Are Very Bad So Far as
Labor Is Concerned. There Are But Three Fair Men
On the Legislative Ticket So Far.
All Candidates Will Be Looked Into and Their Records
Printed By " The Advocate." The Nomination of
John V. Campbell an Insult to Organized Labor.
Hod Carriers Asked to Admit the Common Laborers to Their Local,
But the Matter Is Undecided.
The uvular meeting of the liuildiug
Trades Council was called to order by
1'resideiit Jos. Cullen.
Tlie minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the liuildiug
Trades Council of Springfield, Ohio, was
read and laid over to he taken up under
"good and welfare."
A communication from V. J. Spencer,
secretary liuildiug Trades Department
of the A. F. of L., was read in relation
to the eleator constructors who were
suspended by the local liuildiug Trades
Council some time ago, and as they are
desirous of affiliating again with the
Council, they are forced to pay their
initiation fee of $Ji). The secretary was
instructed to notify Mr. Spencer that the
by-laws of the Council calls for such
payment.
Itusincss Agent Hock read his regu
lar weekly report, which was adopted.
A man named Morgan, who is busi
ness agent for the Common Laborers,
lias beeilca1Iing"on contractors and tell
ing them that D'Alexandio, the interna
tional president, had ordere d the hod
carriers to join the Iluildiug Laborers'
local. Such is not true. D'Alexandio
came here and asked the hod carriers to
take the common laborers into their or
ganization, but up to the present they
have refused to do so.
brother Hock made a report for the
Labor Day Committee, and the agree
ment between the Central Labor Coun
cil and the Building Trades Council was
ratified.
The demand for a big parade this vcar
was brought out by tile fact that the
present city administration is endeavor
ing to prevent the parade being a suc
cess by giving a municipal picnic an La-1
lior Day, and the new speedway, which
is in course of erection, will open on that
.lay.
A communication from the Painters'
Distiict Council Xo. IS appointing K. II.
Siekmanu as a delegate to the Council,
was read and adopted. I'rother Siek
manu being present lie was duly obli
gated. Under the head of "good and wel
fare," liro. AUlcn I v. Smith, business
manager of the Springfield (Ohio)
liuildiug Trades Council, was given the
lloor to explain to the Council that T. A.
Graham, the contractor of the new
speedvva.v, was a notorious employer of
scab labor : that he uses Im wits, his
money and his resources to light union
labor.
That brought up a livel) discussion.
Men like ft. V. Edwards, Tom Cor
coran, II. S. Lev man. of the Le.vman
I'uick Company are always shouting to
buy in Cincinnati, but when they want
to build a pleasure resort to be patron
ized bj the people of Cincinnati, they go
outside to get a contractor who hires
scab labor.
After considerable discussion the mat
ter was referred to the lioaid of I'usi
ness Agents for immediate action.
This matter is liable to wind up by
the ."O.OOO members of organized labor,
and their friends in I lamiltou County,
refusing to patronize the new speedway
unless union labor will be used.
-f-f -f -f -f --
Union Men, Read This!
I
X On Tuesday, .liinunry 4, 1016, Prosecutor John V. Campbell X
T (iii tin- ease of tin Union Painters) , addressing tin court, said: i
"I think the court can fiv bail or admit these prisoners to hail.
Your Honor might, under souk circumstances, hear testimony to
determine whether or not the defendants are to In permitted to
Rive bail."
lir.IUi.KKT J)OTV WAS TRIKR, AXI THK JUKV STOOD 10
FOR ACQUITTAL AND 3 FOK CONVICTION'.
THAT'S HKAHINU THK TESTIMONY.
Still Prosecutor Campbell refused to permit the court to allow
hail.
WILL UNION LAHOH VOTK KOIt CAMPKKLL? OK WILL
THKV THROW OVKK PARTY POLITICS AND VOTK FOK THK
OTIIKR FKLLOW?
4-
tt -f --f -
ItKKWKRY WORK Kits t.'AIX.
CENTRAL LABOR COUNCIL
Miigaviu Will lie Present at Hearing
Before Supreme Court Victor
(autliier, of the Machinists, K
plained the Strike Situation The
Rriiss Workers Organize.
Galveston, Teas. lireweiy Workers'
Union Xo. i:iu has signed a three ears'
agreement with the Gaheston lirewing
Compaii). Wages are increased from
:.'() to "10 per cent and the working time
of beer drivers is reduced.
Findlay, O. lircwery emplo)es hae
signed a three v cars' contrail with local
breweries. Wages of beer bottlers are
raised W..10 a week: brewers, 'i; team
sters, $-', and steam engineers anil sta
tionary firemen from $M to M.
Central Labor Council, Tuesday night,
Ma !), selected Thomas II. Mugavin,
President, to be piesent at the final hear
ing in the suit of the Ohio Stale Fcdcia
tiou of Labor, to prevent the writing of
workmen's compensation insurance by
private insurance companies and to test
the constitutionality of Section .':! of the
Workmen's Compensation Act. This
suit will be heard in the Supreme Court
at Columbus, Tuesday, May Hi. The ac
tion was taken upon a request from the
Ohio State Federation of Labor.
fter a discussion, Council decided to
concur in a report of the Labor Day
Committee, which was held over from
the last meeting, A provision that the
Council is to equally divide the proceeds
of the sale of tickets for the Labor Day
outing with the liuilding 'I rack's Council,
and that the committee should he given
full power to act, caused the squabble.
Victor Gauthier, Toledo. Itusincss
gent for the International Association
of Machinists, eplaiued the machinists'
stiike situation. Following his address.
Council decided to give credentials to
a committee from the machinists, which
will seek aid fioin the various unions.
'I he llrassworkers' Union announced an
oigauization meeting for Fridav night at
Cosmopolitan Mall.
MEDIATION OFKKR RKFUSKD.
(iarment Workers In Surrounding
Cities .loin (iotliain Strikers.
Xew York, X. V. Hope of settling
the garment woikcrs' strike in this city
in the immediate future was diminished
today when Michael J. Regan, Indus
trial Mediator of the State Department
of Labor, announced that an offer of
mediation made by him had been de
clined In the employers. Vbout (iO.000
persons are still on strike.
Three lactones at Vineland, X J.,
and twelve at Stamford, Conn., have sus
pended operations, it was announced
here tonight as a result of the garment
workers' strike. The factories at Vine
land, according to agents of the union,
had been working for an officer of the
Cloak and Skirt Manufacturers' Pro
tective Association.
That there was a possibility of an in
crease in prices on all new designs of
women's wear was the assertion tonight
of lienjamin Schlesinger, President of
the gaiiuent workeis' organization. He
declared indications are that the strike
will last four months, in which event he
said, there will be a scarcity of new
I models A lepoit that the designers
planned to open special shops for the
I manufacture of models was denied h
i the head of their association
IIOl'SKS NOT RUILT PHOPKRLY.
Erie, Pa. I'etter homes means better
citizenship, said David W. Harper in an
addiess in this city.
"You can not expect the best in a man
if his conditions are inisaiiitarv and un
clean. I louses should be plain and .sub
stantial, providing plenty of fresh air
and light," he said.
Mr. Harper quoted figures which
showed that more than DOO.ooo of 1,000,
()(l(l persons in the State rented their
homes.
RAISK WAt.'KS SO PKR CKXT.
HON. NICHOLAS L0NGW0RTH HON. HENRY OTT
Republican Candidate for Congress Republican Candidate for Legislation
Two Good Friends of Organized Labor
-"
T REPUBLICAN TICKET
f
WAt.'K IXCUKASK (iRAXTKI).
Chicago, III. Wage met cases from
two to live cents an hour have been
gi anted appioimatcly 10,00(1 employees
in the stock jards district by the various
packing concerns during the last few
days, it was learned todav At piesent
there are about ."00 men on strike The)
are reported to be mainly from the hog
killing depaitiuent of Armour & Co
Tumble in various departments of the
packing industr) have been av cited bv
these wage increases, it is said
Congress, First District Nicho
las Longvvorth.
Congress, Second District Vic
tor Hcintz.
Count) Auditor Edward S.
Ileainan.
County Clerk Fred ft. Wessel
maiin. Sheriff George F. Schott.
Treasurer Charles Cooper
C o u u t y R e c o r d e r Casper
1 laeckl.
County Prosecuting Attorne)
John V. Campbell.
Common Pleas Judge Robert
'A. Iluchwaltcr.
Probate Judge William 11.
Lticdcrs.
Coroner Dr. I lenr) J. Cook.
County Commissioners A. ft,
Mittendorf. Chailes F. liauer and
Martin Dal).
Survejor William II. lioeh.
Senatois Robert J. O'lirien,
Walter Shohl ami Charles F
Harding.
Representatives - Henrv Ott.
Ilarrv L. Fedcrinan, 1! S. Wvd
maii, Edwin F. Winter, Littleford
lluuemejer, Mas Friedman. Jo
seph R. Gardner ami . Lee licat
tv (two places to be filled by
lecomineiidatioiis of business organizations)
I llobokcn, X. J. The bottle cap, cork
workers and assistants organized re-
cuitlv and affiliated to the American
Federation of Labor. They now report
that tneir union lias secured an agree
ment with the Xew Process Cork Com
pany Wages of female employes arc
increased IS per cent and male employes
St) per cent. Hours are reduced from
nine to eight.
WILL PAY CLAIMS DIRKCT.
Philadelphia. The State Compensa
tion Hoard has announced that practicall)
all insurance companies in the State
issuing accident insurance under the new
Workmen's Compensation law hae
agreed to pa) claims direct to injured
workmen. Ily this method victims of
industrial accidents and their families
are freed from the danger of exploita
tion by lawyers who charge exorbitant
fees for collecting claims.
Recently the board notified tie insur
ance companies that the claims of attor
ne s must not be deducted f rqm com
pensation awards unless same were
O. I 'd bv the State Hoard
4 ----
I complete count) and legislativ e
ticket, witli the exception of two Repre
sentatives, to be lecoinnienilid b) the
'business interests, was selected at the
! meeting of the Republican Kxeciiuv e
1 Committee last Thursday. As the noini
j nations are subject to ratification by the
I Central Committee of the party, it was
i lesolvcd not to give out the names until
after the meeting of the Central Com
mittee Saturday afternoon. 4
It was said 'I hursda.v night on good
authority tli.it the two business men to
lie recommended for the two vacant
places on the Republican legislative
ticket are C. II. M. tkiiis. Piesidcnt of
'the Warner Flevator Coinpanv, and
llarr) II. Suvdani, President of the Cin-
1 cinnati Fiv Screen Comjiauy. Moth are
I prominent members ot the liusiness
' Men's Club
The final session of the Fxecutive
Committee occupied two hours. It began
at 11:1.1 o'clock vesterda.v morning and
ended at I :1' o'clock in the afternoon.
During the meeting a luncheon of milk
and sandwiches was served.
Uthough the members declined to
make known the personnel of the ticket,
it was salil fhe'onchistfmwa'silh'rfrfP'
moiis. Probably the warmest fight was
over the naming of a candidate for Con
gress in the Second District.
Ileintz. As Compromise.
Members of the old organization were
about equall) divided between James G.
Fisk, member of the Board of Fduca
tion, and former Representative Louis
II. Capelle. Victor Ileintz, attorney, who
had William Cooper Procter for his
champion, was chosen a a compromise.
Colonel A. E. 15. Stephens did not
figure in the contest, because the organ
isation element stamped him as irregular
two years ago in going before the pri
maries and beating its candidate for
County Clerk, Harry Asniann. A rumor
that Colonel Stephens might decide to
make another tight was set at rest last
night, when lie said:
"1 was onlv a receptive candidate for
the nomination to Congress. I vvjll not
enter am contest at the primaries."
It was learned after the meeting of
the Executive Committee that in the race
for Count) Recorder Casper Haeckel
defeated William Von lloeuc for the
nomination h) onh one vote, 9 to 3
Congressman' Nicholas Longworth, in
the First District, had no opposition for
i renouunation
Cn the count) ticket. George F. Schott.
for Sheriff: Charles Cooper, Treasurer
John V. Campbell. Prosecuting Attor
nev : William 11. Lueder.s. Probate
Judge, and William 11 Hoeli, Count)
Survevor, were all renominated.
Charles Harding For Senate.
Four of the present legislative delega
tion will go back again if the Republican
ticket wins. Representative Charles
Harding, who was active in behalf ot
various Hamilton Count) measures, has
been promoted to the Senatorship, and
Henry Ott. Harry L. Federman and
Hrvce W)dman are the trio of House
members who were vindicated.
A popular Senatorial nomination is
that of Colonel Robert J. O'Hrien, who
I.-,. ........ f-;..,wlw in ln-itti nnrtips. and
who is being rewarded for his excellent
woik in behalf of his constituents while
a member of Council from the Sixth
Ward for so many )ear. The third
Senatorial candidate is Walter Scholl,
an attoiucv. in the office with Frank 1
Duisiuore.'am! a new man in politics
Of the new candidates on the House
ticket. F.dvvin F. Winter is an accountant
with the Limkenheiiuer Coiupaii) . Max
Friedman, an attorne). in the office of
Cohen .x- Mack: Joseph R. Gardner, an
attorne.. who resides in Norwood. Lit
tleford' Huneineyer. also a young attor
ne. and protege of Gus Kirbeit, and A
Lee Heattv, a negro attorney, who was
selected from among more than a dozen
men of his race who were candidates
