ABBEVILLE PR QG aRESS
VOL 8. Devoted to the Interests of A1~beville and Surrounding Co0m1 lit'. NO. 13.
Phone 248. Abbeville, Vermilion Parishl, La.. Saturday, 1lay 13. 1916. $1.00 a Year.
Ph on e 248 $1.00 a Year.• llDI i ¿u u m• u•  mamulm nnluu nin mull -nn U m mnmunt n iul mmm .. .
HERE'S SOMETHING
INTERESTING
Do you realize how IHOME ICE helps you to
economize on household expenscs every day in the
week, every week in the ',ear?
Surely no part of the high cost of living can be
charged to HOME ICE, but we would like to sug
gest that the cost of living might be much higher,
were it not for HOME ICE.
HOME ICE FACTORY
PHONE No. 12
-- .
PAUL SIMPSON
Standard Bred and Registered Stallion
Redi iced Price for the Season
Now on farm of Mr. Leopold Demary
Abbeville, La.
Electric Lights and Fans will
will make your home com
fortable this summer.....
OUR PUBLIC FORUM
Frank Trumbull K
ON UNIPICATION OF RAILROAD JURISDICTION.
9 ~ There to no more perplexing problem in govenment
today than the proper regulation of railroads, and no one
more capabl of discussing the subject than those whc
finance and manage railroad properties, for experience
is the handmaiden of understanding and practical w!s
dor the stepping stone to successu.
Frank Trumbull, Chairman of the Railroad Comn
mittee on Federal Relations, when asked for his viewi
on the effect of regulation upon railroad investments, said
"The desirability of regulation is, of course, admittedl
Whether the regulation the railroads have had is a sue.
ceas is a fair subject for discussion. One thing is ce.
talm-there is at present practically no appetite for fresh investment in rail.
roads; that Is for new construction or large improvements.
Now that an efficient banking system has been established by the Fed.
eral Government, a solution of the railway problem, fair alike to investors
and to the rest of the public, is first in importance among our national do
niesttc questions. The interdependence of railway owners and employes and
of the shipping and traveling public has been demonstrated so often that I do
not attenmpt here to prove it over again.
Are railroad managers entirely to blame? Suppose you are attempting
o administer a railroad In an honest and strailghtforward way. Most rail
toads ar' so managed; themre have been some exceptions, just as there have
been n. i.ed bankers, farmers who put their beet apples in the top of the bar.
riel, and other people who have made sharp horse trades. But in either of
the cases mentioned, does anyope expect the State to peballze the bankin
pusiness as a whole, or the apple busines. or the rtisng of horses?
The situation is much as if you had built a hotel In some good sized
40w, say, twenty or thirty years ago. Probably very few, it any, of the bed
yoms were provided with bath rooms. Perhaps the furniture consisted of a
bed, a burean, a washstand and two or three chaira. Suppose that after ln.
vetting your money in that way the State passed a law stipulating that the
prie per room should not be over two dollars per day. Suppose after that
the SWtate pased other laws requitnas s certain ntmber of bath rooms, ad
gitlosal furalt~ings, fire escapes, screens on all the windows. alterl y a
palaces. ste. Perhaps theoue reqlrments are resoable and in the publi,
itotret, ut were weold gee et the money for new and better hotels under
each retrictions ef prodts i have md that the situtta of the natroads
~F~~~ ~~~~·~flkL: YC1· C·I~L ~ l ·
Warehouse Co.
Is Organized
A new company has just been
organized, being the Peoples In
dependent Warehouse, Incorpora
ted, witha capital fixed at? 15, (,U.O t'
and will have its domicile in this
city. The company has been or
ganized for the purpose of hand
lihug agricultural products and~ ier
chandise of all kinds and to, handle
and deal in real estate and do a
general warehousing business.
The officers of the new company
are Messrs. R. J. Montagne, pre
sident: J. Immergluck, vice-pre
sident. Henry B. Sere, secretary,
and E. M. Stebbins. treasurer.
The charter of the new corpora
tion appears in another place in
this paper.
Avoidli Spring' C'hls
.4ud,.en ehanges, high winds. shif!
ii:g sas.'un ,ause colds and ,rip! e.
an h Ii - e 'prit g ehrts are ar:noyilni
ani ,langerous and arc likely ti tu' n
into a chronic summer cough In
such cases take a treatnment of Dr.
Kii:g'a N1 w Discovery, a pleasant
lAxative Tar Syrup. It oothtes th,'
cough, checks the cold sand hdlps
break up an attaca of grippe I's a
randy pr.-p red, : ' mixi g or fu-si g
SJust ask yoi.r (trug i-t fo a Iottle ,
Dr King's Nw D;:c -er.. Tested
and tried fur over: t0 % e's adv
Grand Affair is
Being Planned;
The Ladies School Improvement
League have announced that they
will give their annual dance during
commencement week, about- which
we will give full particulars next
week. It will be remembered that
the ladies postponed their dance
few weeks ago on behalf of the
band boys, and we sincerely trust
that the ladies will meet with great
success, as the cause is for the
schools, and as for the music, well
they are providing for plenty of it.
A Good Family I'ough Syrup
Can be made by mixitg Pine Tar,
Aconite, Sugar, Hyoscyamus, Sassa
fras Peppermint, Ipecac, Rhubarb,
Mandrake, Capsicum Moriate Am
monia, Honey and Glycerine. It is
pleasant, healing and soothing, raises
the phlegm, and gives almost Instant
relief. For convenience of those who
prefer not to tlss, it is supplied readn
made In 250. bottles under name of
Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Hunay. Can be
bad atyour drugglst. Insist on get
ting Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey and
mse that the formula ir on the packsge
adv.
Commencement
Exercises
The commencement exercises of
the Abbeville high school will take'
place at the Victor Theatre Wed
nesday and Thursday, May 24th
and 25th,
On the first night Mr. F. J. de
Castillo will stage the Senior Class
play, "The Whirl of the World."
On the following night the com
mencement exercises proper will
be held. There will probably be
twelve seniors to graduate, and full
particulars will be given in next
weeks' issue.
City Supt. Nicholas Bauer, of
the New Orleans schools, will make
the annual address.
Inauguration of
Col. Pleasant
The inauguration of Col. R. G.
Pleasant, as governor of the State
of Louidanea, will -take place at
Baton Rouge Monday. A large]
Program has been arranged for the
day, and will be followed at night
by tbs Iassugunrb.,
Reopen Parish
Ballot Boxes
Zach. 1B. Broussard, who was
the dlemocratic candidate for clerk
of court, and was defeated 1by
Siiimonet LeBlanc by .0O votes , out
of a total of nearly 3211, cast, ha
decided to avail himself of the op
p('rtunity granted by -ection 1420
of the revised statutes, as the first
-t-l, towards contesting the de
cliarid re-,tult of the electit,n. Satuin
dat he obtained through his at
tornevs an order of court directing
the opening and examninations of
the ballot boxes with a view of as
certaining whether the various
spoiled ballots" therein contain
ed, and which are reported to be
more than one hundred in numnber
are so badly marked as to i:iake it
impossible to determine the inten
tion of the voter as to his choice
for clerk of court.
The examination of the "spoiled
.,hllots" cast in the recent election
took place Tuesday at the court
IiOuse.
.\ll the boxes were opened and
the spoiled ballots therein contain
ed were carefully scrutinized and
not:d. Each side placed hii, own
terplretation upotin the validity of
h~ Iballots and both of the con
te-tants appear ,ati-fied with the
ceult.
Tells \% hat Si- Thiniks
Anna Hawn, Cedar Grove, M1o.,
si ies: "We think Foley Cathartic
F..tets are the behs liver pill we ever
rot hohl of, as they do not nauseate
or gripe, but act freely on the liver "
E;commended for constiration,oloat
ng, sour Ptomach, gas on atomacb,
)ad breath, clogged irregular action.
iold Rverywhere. adv.
Library Notes.
The public library has been
)pened one month and in that time
!99 volumes have been loaned, and
!50 borrowers cards issued. There
s still a scarcity of childrens' books
ind the first available money will
e spent to increase the supply.
Several valuable donations of
)ooks have been received by the
)oard recently and were much ap
)reciated.
Hereafter lists of books in the
ibrary will appear each week in
he Progress. Preserve them and
'ou will have a catalogue of tne
ibrary-always at hand.
AMarksville, La., 8, 1916. 
Abbeville Progress, Abbeville, La.
Dear Sir: V
Please communicate to your read
ers, the following:
If 15 acr.s of corn would he cut
up anid put in a silo each year ,:r
the next ten years, the iiicrea-e in
the net income from such a miethlid
of harve-sting would:
- Build a barn 54 by 80 feet and
f. .n wagon shed with a large crib on
each side, or
Build a new, modern eight room V
house, or
Give your boy good stock and
sufficient equipment to farm 160
acres of land, or,
Send two of your children
through any college in the country
or
Purchase a $1,000. automobile
and pay all expenses on same for
ten years.
Very truly yours.
Agricult:ral e'o, :": e. *
'- . La. halker- .\..'a •
m,*.
1W4 -q W-W W- q'WW W N
Save Your
Baby Chicks
"T'hi: is thfe timet' (,1 tlhe wý alr all
littlie cic,'ks alr't stI)jt ct to the
1mercy of the hIad lice. and
yoI .sllhoItll exanlli1l,' the chicks
(ailly. At first siufls ,t the
pclresec O It , I lice.  'e hSicks
head an neI'ck with a little
'asa lle. 1 kcct' p) t lIllH out
of the su for a day. It's easy.
Pulc Library
Association Meeis
The an:t nual bu.in-it meeting (c f
the I'ublic iibrary .\- citio , ..e
held on .May 3. 1916. at 4 o'clucl
in the public library hall. -
Dr. C. A. Schilling, president of
the board of directors, presided.
The following board of director"
\.as elected:
Mrs. Robert Stauffer, for a tcert
of one year: Dr. C. A. Schilling,
one year: Mr. D). L. McPherson,
two years; Mrs. G. W'. Summers,
three years: Mrs. J. F. Stansburv.
four years: Mr. A. J. Nauck five
years: MIr. WV. S. Durke, six years.
On motion of Mr. Durke, second
ed by 'Mrs. J. F. Stansbury, arti
Koping up to the Mark
''Sp.ing fever" is not always % j :ke.
If you feWl dull and singgiai, t'r d ad
worn ,ut, 'uffer from backache or
weak back, rheumatism, sore musclh s
stiff join: or other indication of Kid
ney trouble. it will pay y.'u to investi
gale Foley Kidney Pills. They APe
hiahly recommended as prompt and
eficient aides to heahih. Sold Every
where, adv.
ix1 oI the can 'it trin 1las
amnd dcIt to iin hl:de the Superinlten
lent (tf Pl'blic' .(llucation f ( Ver
::ili ,n 1'arish as an ex-oflicio imeut
her (,f the bo.lrdl of dilectors.
The -ec, eta: v was authorized to
intiff the nwx members of the
board of director,- of the election.
.\' there wa- no, fairther 1,sijr;ss,
the mlretiug xLa, adjourned.
MRS. W. P. EDWARI)S,
Secretary.
Hai A G ,;I : el epurtation
The orgin,l and genuine Honey and
Tar cough e:, rup is Foley 's Honey and
Tar Compound and I eceuse this has
given such univ- ral satisfaction and
cured so manyclses of conghs, colds,
croup and who ping cough there are
imit:ttions and substitutes offered to
the public. Insist upon Foley's. Sold
Every n here. adv.
Vermilion Dems
Name Delegates
The Democratic Executive Com
mittee of Vermilion Parish snet
here Monday at the court house
and elected the following delegates
to the Democratic Convention to
be held in Baton Rouge on May 23
Henry L. Gueydan, Judge W. P.
Edwards. John Nugier, A. M.
Smith, L. O. Broussard, J. G. Nee.
lis, Aug. Morton, W. W. Bailey,
Dr. T. J. Abshire, Zach B. Brous.
sard, R.J. Montagne, P. J. Greene
Avery Theall, Dr. T. T. Tolson,
Claude Pullin, Romain Broussard,
Alex Bonnin, A. 0. Landry,
Hloward Moss, J. R. Kitchell,
.lphelihas Bourrlue, Dr. C. J. Ed.
wards. Itsire Meaux, Dr %. J,
C'tiuinghatm,C. D. Trahau, Sidney
Andru-, Chapman I'ierce. Emttiett
Henryv Aturelien Theall, J. D. Bo
1;in, Eliassin Trahan, W. L. Doss,
F. A. t,,rceatX,
Geo. B. Petty
Dies in Chicago
News was received here of the
death \Vcdnesday in Chicago of
.vr.George B.Petty,aged 52 vears,a
prominent art dealer of that city.
He was a former resident of Abbe
ville, where he married .Miss Lizzie
Edwards, sister of Judge W. P.
Edwards. He was a native of Wil
kinson county, . ississippi. He is
survived by his widow, two child
ren aid a b,roher, James A. Petty,
: well -k:;nowncontractor a;ld builder
r-f N · .... J. r '..:. -.
I: 4r:. day there is tIl nmore
reao:t to believe that a water
sprinkling wagon will benefit Abbs
ville's dusty streets,
