y.sVk.Oaas'bJt.sioNiJk.eKJ
Beginning in this Issue. Thc .most powerful and thrii!inCiy in-
TfJET di nrFf DDADurr teresting novel of thc year. Thc greatest
THE BLACK PROPHET anti-papal romance since "The Wan
dering Jew" A fascinating love story runs as a thread of gold through the
romance. Do not fail to .read it. Do not fail to get your children and
friends to read it.
ThU Is Number 2G4
NAGE
Attrwra, Mlaaati
Uy IS, ttlt
fOLITICAL MACMIME WRECKED!
.r-a
P- . J t T
ROME'S
Patriots Imitate Political Romanism by Getting Into Politics in the Interest of Democracy-
The Lesson of the Overwhelming Defeat of the Pro-Papal Machine
The History of thc Hierarchy's Victorious Advance Since She
Has united the Papal Forces and Divided the Upholders
of Democracy The Overshadowing Peril and the
Great Opportunity for Freedom
t freeman'
April fourth, of tha pretwnt year, witness municipal
election in Ju&sss City, Missouri, that judging from tho ill
concealed fury of ths rrprweaUUr of rwitico-ecclcsiastical
Romanism, hu created, greater consternation in th inner circle
i the Roman Catholic political machine than any city election
of the present centnry.
Not that the election alone was so omiooua to political Ko
msnism, though the grinding to powder of a powerful and aup
poocdly invincible pro-papal machine was in itself appalling,
but it vat the fact that this election wat the most decisive of a
scries of kigniflosnt political happenings, that has an aroused
the apprehension and alarm of tlie astute Jesuit. They have
been quick to recoguka ukat.thU and other recent elections re
real a n 4 portend.
Soman Catholic Campaign of Subterfuge and 7alia Pretense
Here was fresh eridence that the Roman Catholic polit
ical campaign of false pretense end subterfuge, under cover of
which the loyal subject of the papal theory have steadily ad
vanced in city, state and nation, during more than a quarter
of a ccnturr, could no longer be successfully maintained. Aa
aroused and glowingly indignant patriotic citizenship repre
senting many millions of true Americsus too fojaf to lay down
vnder the threat of ai arrogant, un-American rtlinio-political
power thst is already boldly warring on our federal constitu
tion and the fundamental safeguards of our free institutions,
vii henceforth to be reckoned with.
Rome understands that hers is one of those paradoxical
cases wktro to be discovered is to bt lost. And she hs natur
ally dreaded the possible coming of the hour when
Tbe Titan of Democracy 8hould Awae
Hence, she hu been striving so desperately to secure sub
versive legislation to prevent the constitutional right of freedom
of religious discussion being freely exercised. (See the pend
ing G alii van bill in congress.) Legislation that would further
abridge the freedom of the press and which would substitute
Russian-like bureaucracy xor trial by jury, (bee the ritzgersld
bill now pending in congress.)
Tli is fear that the eighty-six million non-Roman Cath
olics of the lend will resent the war being waged upon funda
mental democracy, also doubtless accounts in large degree for
the numerous exhibitions of criminal lawlessness and monoc
racy by Knights of Columbus and other subjects of the sover
eign on the Tiber, which have so disgrsced this nation since thc
Roman Catholic hierarchy opened its aggressive campaign to
make America dominantly Roman Catholic.
Political Romanism knows thst unless she csn continue
to intimidate or csjole the voters until sho secures sutlicient
rower in government to destroy the free press that is fighting
her political machine, it is only a question of rime before the
awakened voters u'ill imitate her in getting into politic exactly
at the hat long been in politic t, and she also knows full well
that when the patriotic Americans come to fully sppreciate the
peril to our splendid free institutions from the attempt of po
litical Romanism to substitute the papal for tho democratic
Ftem of government, a vast proportion of the eighty-six mil
lion non-Roman Catholics will promptly pay Rome the com
pliment of imitation to the extent of uniting at thc polls for
the preservation of free democracy.
, Now, the Kansas City election is precisely the thing which
political Romanism has been fearing would come upon her, and
this, indeed, is why this election holds such sinister significance
for those who are warring against free institutions, and why
it is so tremendously suggestive to the millions of intelligent
patriots who hold the lofty ideals and visions cherished by
Washington, Adams, Jefferson and Franklin.
Th) Story of the Kansas City Victory 1
Kansas City, Mo., had been blighted by a pro-papal mu
nicipal regime, redolent of Tammany s spirit and tactics. The
machine had waxed strong and powerful, feeding of! of the city
About ninety per cent of the appointees were taid to be Ro
manists. The machine believed it hsd become so thoroughly
entrenched thst it could master and hold the situation by
strong-arm and other Tammany methods. But it made a mis
calculation. Heretofore, reformers had been unorganized and unin
formed as to which of the candidates represented the old Amer
ican ideals, and which, the reactionary autocratic and undemo
cratic theory of the papacy.
Now, however," the patriots of Kansas City quietly got to-
cctner ana formed sn Independent Volet League, similar to
mat wnicn naa none sucn exceueni wore u ot, Louis. A care
ful and painstaking investigation was made of tho candidates
asking for popular suffrage,, their records, antecedents and their
positions were carefully scrutinized, and then a ballot ircular
or bulletin was prepared for the information of the patriotic
voters oi Kansas xaij, giving necessary information that the
patriots were able to obtain which would illuminate the record
of each candidate.
Here for the first time in the history of the city, the in
telligent and truly American voting population the population
loyal to the fundamental principles of our free democracy, pos
tered information which should be in the hands of every voter
before, every tiecnon.
, A New Richmond In the field
As election day approached a new presence in politics was
felt, or rather was sensed by the keenest politicians among the
pro-papal forces. Instinctively the old order became conscious
of a dsnger, subtle and intangible as the lightning of the ap
proaching storm and quite as portentous.
To meet the new situation the most daring plsns were put
into execution to prevent the city from being rescued. But the
I patriots were aroused, a great American municipality was to
J be saved from papal sway and political misrule, and they went
into the battle of ballots, as heroes in a noble cause go into the
thick of the fight
When the smoke of battle cleared away, it was found that
aU the pepisit and pro-papists, tare four candidates, had fallen
tntfsidt the breastworks.
The triumph was sweeping, decisive, and to Borne and her
political allies it was appalling.
i . Th Pionear Independent Voter's League 'r
'And just here it will be interesting to call to mind the
hbdory of the pioneer Independent Voters' League and what
called it into existence.
It will be remembered that in keeping with Rome's ns-tion-wide
attempt at censorship of pre and public utterance,
her faithful servitors in M. Louis. Missouri, undertook in 1912,
to prevent General Nelnon A. Miles, from speaking in L
Louis. This distinguished soldier and puhlicit-t of unsullied
reputation, enjoying the respect of all high minded lovers of
free institutions, was engaged to sprak in a theatre in St.
Louis. He proposal to outline the principles and purposes of
the Guardians of Liberty, a patriotic organization which war
on no church, but simply seeks to preserve the constitutional
gusrantees of liberty and the vital democratic provisions for
safeguarding our popular non-sectarian education, divorce of
church and state, and the full and free exercise of thought,
speech, press and assembly.
Toleration As Roman Catholics Bee It
When General Miles, who is at the head of the Guardians
of Liberty, reached St. Iouis, it was found thst the Catholics
had succeeded in bringing pressure to bear uHn those iu con
trol of thc theatre, inducing them to cancel the engagement.
They hnd also succeeded in having him barred from all avail
able halls and churches by their well known and uu-Amcricuu
methods.
Contrasting Example of Protestant Toleration
This very typical illustration of the Roman Catholic brand
of toleration was exactly the reverse of that which the Prot
ectants of SL Louis, accorded the Knights of Columbus lec
turer, Mr. Scott, when he recently sang his siren song of Cath
olic toleration, so charmingly reminiscent of the old story book
iauie oi me spmer and ine ny.
Tho spoctaclo of General Miles, one of the most distir
guished citizens in the American republic, going on invitation
to one of our chief cities to deliver a message to those who
wished to hear him. and being prevented by Roman Catholic
tnttmuiatxon, startled some of the Protestant citizens out of the
deadly stupor into which political Romanism's false pretense of
patriotism and toleration hud lulled tnem. It also served to
INDEPENDENT BALLOT (or April 4, 1916
twits' ky INDEPENDENT VOTERS' LEAGUE, P. 0. Bet 424, Kaatas City, Ms.
FOR INFORMATION OF AMERICAN VOTERS
REPUBLICAN DEMOCRAT
FOR MAYOR
GEOBGE B. EDWARDS. AMERICAN Henry L. J net rre-RornanUt
FOR COMPTROLLER
EUGENE B. BLAKE... AMERICAN M. A. Flan RomanUt
FOR TREASURER
HARRY E. BARKER.... AMERICAN tD. T. OREAR AMERICAN
FOR N. SIDE COURT
FRED W. COON AMERICAN Wllher F. Hall Fro-Romaalit
FOR S. SIDE COURT
Joe. r. Kicrnan RomanUt 'NORMAN WOODSON. ..AMERICAN
FOR SCHOOL BOARD
W. A. KNOTTS AMERICAN 'JAMES R. NUGENT.. ..AMERICAN
UPPER HOUSE ALDERMEN
show certain high miuded patriots that ther had
duty to perform iu the presence of this
Deadly Upaa of Old World Intolerance
lo remain indifferent when the constitutional rights of
one of the most distinguish.il American citiens, and thst of
UiousaniU oi citizens uf St. Imis, were being thus violated
.... 1. 1 l. - II - .
piay me pm oi a rraveu in an Hour oi supreme
uHngr-r ui int gotrrnmeni.
In St Louis, as in most great municipalities, there were
many thousands of true patriots, loyal Americans who hclonc
to organizations pledged to uphold the democracy of the author
of the Declaration of Independence and the fathers of our re
public, ami there were other thousands, who though not so af
Ciliated were equally loyal to the spirit and letter of our con
stitution.
A few patriot', men of vision, and profound lovers of our
country, set to work t.i federate these patriotic voters in order
io secure something like the same concert of actum which luid
already made Home master in so manv cities, and an increas
ingly formidable uii-Ainericnn power iu our land. Tliee pa
triots de-tired to gie tc clean, cllii ient and democratic goxem
mint at the slls. the supH.rt that upholders of the papal
uieory were giwng Koine through solidarity in voting.
They organized thc Iiidctcndcnt Voters' league wbii
soon became a revolutionary ower in St. Loin jH.litics, mak
ing lor righteousness ami true Americanism. Other cities cursed
and blighted by political Romanism have since commenced th
work of emancipation, hut it remained for Kansas City H give
thc most striking object lesson in how religion can be Lef t o.i'
nf politic, and how the present attempt to substitute the papal
theory oi government lor that oi our own oeniocracy c be
given its Waterloo.
Kvidcntly this vision is what disturbs the eve en I
the, editor of the Catholic Register, of Kansas City, !is
when in his issue of April fith, 1!M5, in a parowsr i!
column editorial outburst, he expresses his righteoi. ?Au
turn over the iniquity of the members of thr Indcpeudcnt Vol-
KEEP RELIGION AND POLITICS SEPARATE
ALBERT I. BEACH. ...AMFRIC AN
C.FO. U PETERSON' AMt klCX-N
I.INV1LLE U ADAMS.. AMI AN
HAS. O. 1.ARI K AMt RK AN
JAS. H. FRAMR AMI-KIT AN
K. B. HARRINGTON.. .irs
KMIL DORS A Ml' It IC AN
JNO. H. bPEAS AMERICAN
W. BAMER BROWN. ..AMERICAN
John T. Umtth Homanitt
fatHrk T. MullaM Rnmanlrt
CHAS. H. HILL AMF.MICAN
WM. CSTF.RNHFRGER. AMI RICA
WM. H. HARPER AMFRICASt
Hnry LuaOf pro-Kovnaniit
A. r. BCHLERMAN....AMLR1CAN
LOWER HOUSE ALDERMEN
WarS
1'Joka B. Lawraac Aurkaa
I'Jnha Z. ttwrrali Aaiariraa
I Hi. W. Daall Aatriraa
I'Am TawnMnS A marie a
S Jua. R. LAmatiB Rnmanut
I'N. B. Hatch AaxrVaa
Tt'kaa. P. Waalkary Aaxrlraa
'Frank E. SmIj Aawricaa
E. R. Caakaai. Jr Aaiariraa
la'Kbaar B. Lawr Aaiariraa
ll-H,rkr M. rWlciMr AaMriraa
llVall Vanra Aartraa
ll'Waltar N. KiMop Aawlraa
HAIIa T. Flaa.ll tatrku
ltF4wra V. Platana Aawrkaa
U'tawla U Wlna AaMriraa
SOCIALIST PARTY N
KXPLANATIONi Marar Jaafi aaaaUarata in H w tmm
Saa4ln, Laatii. HaR aaS HSa ara ar af kla rkkii r1 K Ml ml
WarS
I Danny Cnatallo Rnmanlt
t frank Oukar Knmanlit
S Jnavpk Furh, Romaalat
4Jaeak C Wtocuaua.... Aark
t Joha Corr RnmaniM
Harry Sand'ar Pro-Komantat
T Thua. B. OllcJirlrt KomanUt
S EJw. J. Malenay Romanlat
t. M. Burnm Rnmanlu
10 J no. N. Darktr Romanlat
11 Oao. 8. Kalkr Romaaiat
IfR. L. Flak Aaifrtraa
U'Saaiaal R. Praat Aaartcaa
14'Artkar N. Aaaia Aawiea
li'Dr. W. R. Faraltr Aark-aa
IS CKaa. Haydaa PrD-Bootaulat
aa tkla Tkkat
alata.
KEEP AN EXACT COPT OP THB BALLOT YOU VOTE aa thai
th Bailat Baaaa ara aaa4 ya caa ftaaUfj.
PRO-ROMANIST Indlraua that th caa4Mat ka la th pan or probably
itl faor ROMISH larnialatloa aa4 appalntaaa la praf attar to Aaiarfcaas aaS
Aaaarteaa prtaeiplaa.
- TBB ROMANIST VOTER OBITS TR1S ORDER
Tha Romaa Cattelle la V irlalS kla aata for tka panoaa oi aarnrfns
Catkollc aacaadanry la thla roan try. All lacislatloa aiu ka mvmnui. ky th
will of God anarrinaiy laaVataS ky tka Pop Edutadoa aiuat b eiumlld ky
th Calholt aatkohilot. ant) and 'aducaUoa.' tha oplaioa of tka Indlddaala
and tha attaraaraa of tha praaa ara larlvdod Many opiniona ara to ba for
ktdUa by tha aarular arm aadr tha aatitority of tho Cktnrk. rrva to war aad
ktoodaJwd." Catholic World, orvaa of Romaa Catkollc Chvrea.
Krom thla It will ka aa tkat Roma rlalma tho riaht to domlnala tka
pMHIr of th aatloa L . that tka Pop akaU ka tka SUPREME POTENTATE
OF THE WORLD.
Tarfra, wa tnaiat and taaratata tkat BOMAN19TS ARR NOT GOOD
AMERICANS aa kaS aa tkir auiatara alWrlaaco to tkk) FOREIGN POTBN
TATE, aad aatli taay aar tkla alUcianra tky ahookd ka dftatd far any af
rial paalttaa fc tM (1ft of laa AMERJCAH VOTERS. SCRATCH ROMAN
UTS I
Toa akoakl tola tk Iadpadal atara Loafaa. Tt h tka oaly artfra
afiekrat orvaajaattaa that ta Sfkita POLITICAL ROMANISM, tka aiHll.il
j at tkat ha kraagkl rata aad Smaaiitaa to ovary aaaatry whr U kaa
afcaod powor. Tha Laacao aadaora a alact only Amirlraaa aad kaapa a raaord
af aU lacioUiora aad otkar arnetak. ta kaaw that thay da thair daiy aa Aatart
aaaa aa thy printai kfar ilirtlia.
Writ tadoy to F. O. Boa 414. Baaaaa CRT, Ma, far tafonaafloa aa to
mamkarafcip. Toa will ko raraatlaatad aad If yoa ara foaad aillbU. yoa wiU
aaar at doa Maaa. Taa will iaara kafara adalaataa ta tka ladrpadat Vaaarf
Uaawa tkat r an aal htedand by rod taao. bat ovary aaat of doaa aad avary
mlaota ad tJaaa la opvat ka (rttatt rvaalu to aavo oar Paklle Brhal Sra
aad olfcar fraa taalliattaaa aad putatt oar toantoy poUtkally. wrmUy. lima
ttaaally aad aaaarially from ta fat af Spaha. PartatTaL Aactrla. Itatr. Maataa,
aw Soark Amvrtraa aa callvd rvpahUea aad ovary ataar print una
THIS IS YOLIt riCHT. Wky ara yoa trauma aa mot that ao
vBl p. mat ywar kmod-boarkt fwidimT Jota tha L V. L. tadayi at
TRIP
Thli la Hi aloyaa af th INDKPENURNT VOTERS' I.RAGI'R and a) tk
raaaaa a arc adrarailnf tka rlrtliaa af rartala mtm and tka drfrat af ctrUia
alkvra.
Why YOU Should Vote for AMERICANS ONLY
From tha Anwrlraa Cltlxn, Rorhaatar. N. Y., Pb. 20. HIS.
Tk Jnait art at tka hoad af tk graat Raaiaa Catkalk miwiaa la tkla
laad." "TakkH" (Raaiaa Catkalk).
They art. Ihtrrfsrt. raaarrtad with th Rmaa Catkalk rkarrh ITS HEAD!
Ara tky (aad Aaarkaa cltlwna? Haa a alnfla Jaaalt vr takra tka aatk
af alkilaaca U tk Valtad StataaT Waald Uwy maka good clthwni aad sl
lhr S rat alUtlaara lo tka Biata am tkat of tka Ckarrh of R?
Tkla la NAPOLEON BONAPARTE'S caarlaalaat
Whrravr tha JmulU ara admlttad. thay will k maatara. coat what It may.
Their aotiaty la by natura dictatorial, and thcrafnr It la tha Irrarnnrllahl
anamy of all conatHutad authority. Erary art, EVERY CRIME, hoaawr ATRO
CIOUS, la a mritortou work If It ! committed for th intcraat of th Society of
Jaaua. or by th order of th p-cnaral of tho Jaaalta."
Fla laatttatlaat It haa Roarlahad wondtrfalty fat tkla aaaatry aad hat
bacam a mlakty pawtr. kut aa M ka kaa DRIVEN FROM ROMAN CATH
OLIC COUNTRIES, BT ROMAN CATHOLICS. It will yt ka 4rlta fram tkla
aaaatry. aad taa tUaa la aaar at kand.
W akall brad tha waralnt fa Enfland ky LORD BEACONSFIELDl
"W ara tlnkiny beneath a power before which tha proudeet aonguerora
have prowa pal, and hy which tha nation mnat devoted to freedom have become
eailaved: THE POWER OF A FOREIGN PRIESTHOOD. Your empire and
yoar liberttea ara more la dancer at thia moment than when th arm of In-
aaaioB wa encamped at Bologne."
LORD MACAl'LEY at Bare aa aalherity. la hit "Biatory af England." ka
Ute tkat t
Tka hrraUeat and moat fertile pravlnraa of Europe have, ander her (Rome)
nit, bcea auak la poverty, la pslltkal aenrltoda, and la latellertual torpor;
wkU Proteatant rouatriea. one proverbial for atarilliy and barkariam, have
keen turned by toll and Induatry Into gardena and caa boaat of a long Hat of
heroes and ttateamea, phlloeopbcn and poet.''
The papacy waa wH kaewa by GARIBALDI, Italy's Idol aad great etatee
au. Tkaa aald CaribaMli
Th papacy, aided by the Jeeolta U tha MOST HORRIBLE FLA (TUB that
my country la aSlktad with. F.tchtaen eenturtea of faleahood. paraacation and
kurnlag at tk atake. la anmpllctty wHh all the tyranta of Italy, rendered tha
piacoa laeurable. At present, aa karatofora. tha vamptr af tha land of tha
8ciito ear porta Ita body, which b eorrapted aad aataa ap by gangraaa. by
aaaant of dlaeora, raaatma. atllaga aad civil war."
If ther la a aaavameat to drlv Baaaaa Catholics oat af aaktic life." there
oat ka raaaaa far each actio, aad bt tka Bemeniete ovaw aa Raaet damaada.
that Srvt alleemaea be gtvea Bam ta matter TEMPORAL as wall aa eptrttaal.
tkaa Amarkaae akoaM hoaa each paptau eat af pakUc aea. ta order ta aal
gaerd Amartcaa Ukertiea.
To Malta liars Out of Priests
To deny that Ram mm n Brat with paylata hi ta ataha Uari aet af prlaat
as tha Romaa sectarlaa praaa.
Said Tataer- PWIaa. aditac af tha "We tare Watrhmaa." Jaatla. Mill
T.H u wa ara CatkaUca Brat aad Americans or BaaHakmaa afterward?
Af miaa we are I TU aa. b aaaa af tbe raw flirt betweea tka ckarrk aad tka
aeill aeverameat. w take tka Okie af taa ckarrh of eaoTaa wa del Wky. If the
eoeeremeat of taa vatwe ptaiea were ai wr wm "im, . wmr
aamorrow. TO BELL WITH THB GOVERNMENT OP THE UNITED 8TATESI"
Wrtt VWIaa. - - - aad aaeakma far tho Bomaa rharch. at ao
coward. Ba haa the maakeed to apeak the TRUTH aa ka rvcet.ee It fraa Bocae,
at. ta kaaaat laiaah ta avOrirlr oasraa the view of tha hfcrrarcky aad Ha Ta
betl with tho Valted 8 la lea. -
Catkallca aialni. laved, adarad Father MrGrraa. aad they
maaa lavallv baraoaa the kaaw kna ta ka a Ckrtaliaa, faithfal aad
Mh aalv erlaae waa that ha breed Amecha ketler tkaa Bam. It
FATHER McCLTNN who daSsately proclaimed t
IBLTION aad DO YOl'R SHARK.
taao wane aaad aa a COt Tl
Rvery Raeaantat ward heater aad marhha paHrkaaa will vote aad tha IN-
ntrih'DtWT lUIIKaN tam aaaaal - kai aa aahet M
PASS THBoB BAJXOTS AUMHe. WAJlB Ht TOL'B BLSXPT All Ui CAN
ITDMBOU. ....
Vote for AMZSICAKS Only, Scratch Bomanists
by hha
God Forbid I God forbid!
; Tho Pope's taffaaass la political It has been the rare of nearly svery a
tka. It has aaaa th nm of Italy, Prance. Germany. Eaglaad and lrotaad.
0t4 forbid 1 Cod forbid I that tha hatod thing should hare aa UI arsiaad re-
vtvaU"
era' IVapue fr voting a a unit in favor of raodidates wbo U
bold tlie American j'nnt ijilea f povernment.
The editor points out the fart that the Republican titlet
abitli only hail one Itoman (atholie on it, receitrd an otc
wbelminj; nisjuntv and tlmt the lone iut1 audi. Is to ran vert
low on the ticket, after ahiili he make the folio aim; very in
terettin and very illuiiiiimtin statement:
"It maal 6e rr mrmhttnt IJef I acre are oof atrr 7Vt(1 CmlMe
toteri ta A'aaaevt t'ify. oal of tft' rtjulmd."
We are told on t-xery hand by the l!omanits that they am
not in ;i()'iu. au-1 et tlie jro-jdsl administration whit h met
b timely a death on Anl ith. gate an over helming majority
of oilier to the Ihnnan t'slholiin.
It is stated that ninety rr cent of the offhv-s were filUl
by Itomanists, vet . i-onlm,; lo this IJoinsn Catlxilie aut'entv
there are only T.otMi t'atholie voters out cf sn electorate of
6I.IKNI. Slnety per rent vf the vjiret giren to thane who rep
recent leu than one ninth of the electorate in a frW; astound'
ing ehowinn, if we are duty imprenned by the Roman Catholic
0j, lira nee that Rome in not in pulitic.
On this pace ve are jrivin our readers a reproduction of
the now historic rirriilar-lwllot of the Independent Voters'
licacue. that played so imKrtsnt a part in cruhinp t all
recognition of its former self thc pro-papal political machine
of Kansas City.
Mere is what the editor of the Catholic Rrgiitrr says about
thc circular-ballot.
'The tnlii-l, lying nnti ( atlmlir rirrulsr Is1nt thst a-aa mailed to
nearU every li.pul'lnau tntrt anil a prrsl nnml-r nf Ilrmorratir vtitrrt
on Thnrsilay rxrning, ! the sm form that has l n uaol ia mrry
rlit-tinn in S tie- country ilunng tin- paat year. It kna u.'fratrM rvrry
Catholic a ho hns run fur a hii;h nfllra urinK that time. Wilnras
the covernir of Now York nml Maaaarb'iaetts, the piayor cf I'hiraK",
f the entire tiikrta at Tlcx1o, llnffslo, and IVnver, of the mayors of
Ati-hiann and Ht. Ji.w h. We rou. name rnounh inatanrrs to fill this
rntiie column if ,c tMik the tronldo to refer to our fllra."
In this editorial we find, we would naturally eipect in a
Catholio publication, the veilel threat of boyeott for those who
have offended political Romanism.
Koine is in politics! For years she has been actively,
unitedly, BrTjiressvely workinp, intriRueinfj and votinjr for the
advancement of men and measures that would further her am
bitious dream of making America dominantly Roman Catholic,
by sulnditiitinjr, tbe papal for tlie democratic system of covern- .
ment. In this, her jxilitical wisdom has only been distanced by,
her insatiable precd. t
Rome Ia Our Politics s ' 1 ,
For yearn the inatcr of the Roman Cntholie political ma
thine have laid in wait, as it were, for divisions in one of the
rcat parties, ami when such splits have come, in city, state
and nation, Cutlu.lic politicians, with tijier-like ability snd
hacked by the itinipmt M relict h of xl it i al IUnani.tni, have
sought nomiiiHtionx on the tickets of the undivided party; or
where a party has tleliU-rstely flouted the popular will. Home
has been quick to push her jHit iciang into nomination on the
opposite ticket.
Here are two typical illustrations from a mimltcr of recent
examples that might be cited. When the Republican Yarxy
split oer Roosevelt and Taf; the Roman Catholic machine in
Connecticut was instantly on deck to secure thc nomination of
the ttinjjresionnl '-' n.uit.n on tlie Democratic ticket.
The divided vote gao Rome her opportunity, with thc
result that the fire rnngre.tnmen e'ecteil uere aH Roman Cath
olic, then came thc invariable sequel, a determined battle for
imjtortant ofliees that would ramify Rome in government.
1001 every large city in Connecticut, with the exception of
liritlgeport, had Roman Catholic postmasters installed. This
list included such cities as Hartford, New Haven, Meriden,
Waterburv. Middletown, New llritain, Wiltimaiitic. New In
don and Rristid. And what was true of i..tmaters was true
of oflicials in other important stations. Ctmntt limt is over
whelmingly rroteM.nit, and yet we are gravely informed that
"Rome is not in polities."
In MnsMiihu setts, the Republican party delileratelv flouted
thc popular will by nominating for governor, one of the iiwt
unpopular politicians in the state, on a strongly reactionary or
"stand pat" platform, at a time when all the signs sliowed that
the people were in no moisl to tolerate llourbonism in any
party. Instantly the astute masters or tne uoman a t tunic
oliticnl machine beheld their oport unity. v A democratic
slate was prepared, and with two exceptions Roman Catholic
candidates filled the ticket from governor down. The candi
dates for auditor and state's attorney were the only eicfptions.
This ticket was triumphantly elected, and then began the bal
ing of the plum tree for the chtUlrcn of fe tioman I otucnc
church, but we must remember "Rome is not in politics."
Every great city where papal or pro-papal machines have
carried tlie elections in recent years, the pay rolls have been (-
erally loaded down with tubjects of tht pope. Kansas City, Mo.,
under the last regime was strictly typical of what is going on
wherever a pro-papal machine carries an election. While pre
paring this srticle a letter has come to hand from a well known
citizen of Boston. "In our city," says our correspondent, "the
sitostion is well summed up in the following epigrammatic
statement, "eighty per cent of the city positions are held by Ro
man Catholics, but eighty per cent of the taitt are paid by.
Protestant."
Furthermore, what is trne of our preat cities is true In
greater or less degree throughout the whole country. In our
district," writes a valued correspondent from the second con
gressional dictrict of Wisconsin, "we have a Koman Catholic
congressman and though the TrotestanU are in the majority,
freriy-Ar out of twenty-nerem pottmatlert appointed tinct
thu man got to Washington, are Roman Catholics."
It matters r.ot in what direction one turns, in the investi
gation of American political history since the hierarchy com
ramnaiim to make America dominantly Roman
'- --1 f . . -
til CAKDIDATH D1BEKD AMERICA All tjUAUITKD IN IV SIT
rABTICVLAa TO SCBVK TU FBOrLsV-VOTI FOI TEAM.
HIND THESE BALLOTS TO GOOD AMERICANS ONLY
efe each ballet cowat far a veto.
Catholic, the most obrious, inescapable, and ever present jaci
it that Rome, organized, united, sleepless, determined and ag
greuire, is in national, state and municipal lilies.
The pernicious activity of Senator O'Gorman. typical
subjec t of the pope, in defeating popular Democratic aspirants
fata variAtll TVThtztnPFvA at ft d other rrovernment positions in the
A V A W IV jrwwtwi.ev. ' 7
(Continued on Tsge i. Col 2)
t.
Ml
aa--e.a,Ssk, fl M k WSkSi
