The St. Joseph Observer
riife.
nli "-
n
r
HI
'
fa '
Ave. I 1
1278 f
VOLUME JX.
GQNGRESSMAN
C.F.
FILES HIS FOWL DECLABATION
The Fourth District Member Complies
With the Wishes and Desires of
His Constituents
Who Are Satisfied With His Course in
Congress And Will Return Him
For Further Service
On Saturday, Congressman Charles F. Booher of this district
filed at Jefferson City his formal declaration and paid the fee
which action enters him as a candidate to succeed himself as con
gressman from the Fourth district.
Mi. Booher has made good in congress, and his formal an
nouncement is hailed with pleasure by his friends, who recognize
his standing and worth and who are enthusiastic in his support.
They point to the fact which cannot be disputed, that now
above all is the time that he should be retained in the position
which he has so ably filled, for this nation is now in a position
which it has never heretofore occupied and men who are alive to
the situation and who are in harmony with the administration
as is Mi. Booher, are the ones to be retained. No new man, no
matter how much capability and fitness as a legislator he might
later develop under training, they truthfully assert is wanted in
this time of national stress and peril.
All conservative men agree that when a good man is placed
in a responsible position and he has demonstrated his capability
as has Congressman Booher, that he should be kept where he is,
for it requires years of training to bring about efficiency, and
these years Mr. Booher has, and his efficiency is beyond question.
A bank or wholesale or great retail mercantile establishment that
would change heads every year or two simply from the fact that
some other man wanted the position, would or could not survive
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES F. BOOHER
and this is true of this great public office and trust.
The fact that Congressman Booher has been in .full accord
with President Wilson and the Democratic administration on all
great measures is a potent factor which will go far in the coming
campaign. Congressman Booher has been active in the support
and passage of some of the greatest constructive and remedial
legislation that has been enacted during the entire history of this
great republic, and which has characterized the present congress
as the most useful body that has ever handled the affairs of state
in the nation's history. This is known by the Democrats and
admitted by the Republicans of the entire country.
Congressman Booher has always been faithful to his con
stituency and is always at his post of duty doing the things for
which his constituency sent him to the seat of government. Even
when his position was in jeopardy and men in his district were
seeking to supplant him, he has remained steadfastly at his
post in Washington, attending to the duties for which he was
elected, conscious of the fact that the people would reciprocate his
trust in them and attend to the task of returning him which
they have done cheerfully and gladly, thereby demonstrating to
him that they were truly appreciative of his trust in them and his
efforts in their behalf.
Mr. Booher is known as one of the hardest workers in con
gress. He is early at his desk and never dodges a vote or fails
to assert himself in what he believes to be right which he regards
as his duty. No constituent, no matter what his creed, position
,.,or condition, ever addressed him or called upon him with a propo
sition or measure, but received prompt and careful consideration
and attention and Mr. Booher in that which he has undertaken
has met with all success that was possible.
It is laudable for any man in the Fourth district to aspire to
such a high honor as a seat in congress and there are many
men in this district who with the necessary acquaintance and
trairiing could fill the position with distinction and honor; but at
this time this period of greatest constructive legislation and ac
tivity in the history of the American people the voters and
people of the Fourth district of Missouri feel that their interests
are safe in the capable hands of Congressman Booher and they
will so assure him by giving him their heai-ty support at the
August primaries.
ST.
JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 191G
BOOK OF ST. LOUISANS
In It Revised and Brought Down-to.
Date Edition It Give Some'
Interesting Data
St. Louis, Mo., May 10 "The Book
of St. Loiilsans" 1b the title of a vol
ume the second edition of which was
published in 1912, "revised, enlarged
and brought down to date." This
book was published by the St. Louis
Republic. The "foreword" of the vol
ume, among other things, says: "In
every case where possible, the facts
were procured at first hands, and
the sketches were submitted for veri
fication and correction, thus giving to
the book a quality practically auto
biographical. In this painstaking way
its authenticity has been safeguarded
and Its value as a reference book
greatly enhanced." On page 219 of
this book nppears the following per
sonal sketch, which is of Interest as
showing bow the party himself, whose
sketch Is given, regarded his own poli
tics: "Gardner, Frederick Dozier, presi
dent St. Louis Coffin Co.; born, Hick
man, Ky., Nov. 10, 1870: son of Wil
liam Henry and Mary (Dozier) Gard
ner; educated in common schools of
Kentucky and Tennessee; married,
St. Louis, Oct. 10, 1895, Jeannette Vos
burgh; three children: William King,
Dozier, and Janet. Came to St. Louis
at age of seventeen, In 1887, and en
tered employ of St. Louis Coffin com
pany as office boy, and has advanced
until Is now sole owner of the busi
ness. Established, 1898. the Memphis
Coffin company, at Memphis, Tenn.,
and Is owner of same and chairman
of board of directors. Member Busi
ness Men's league; independent in
politics; member board of trustees
Lindell Avenue Methodist church.
Clubs: St. Louis, Glen Echo, Belle
Drive, County; also one of the eight
members of the Mud Lake Club of
Arkansas, owning a game preserve of
3,000 acres. Recreations: golf and
hunting. Office: Eighteenth street
and Chouteau avenue. Residence:
4508 Pine street."
THE NEBRASKA RETURNS
They Disclose that Both of the Bryans
Were Badly Beaten in the
Late Primary
If it takes as long to get the returns
from the August primary in this state
as it did to get the primary returns
from Nebraska, there will be many
an anxious candidate who will grow
gray hairs during the wait. The Ne
braska primaries were held two weeks
ago last Tuesday, and It was not until
yesterday that the official returns
were available. A blanket ballot was
the cause of the long delay.
A feature of the primary as shown
by the primary was the conclusive and
decisive defeat of both William Jen
nings and his brother Charles V the
former for national delegate-at-large,
and the latter for governor of the
state. The official returns show that
William Jennings Bryan ran only
sixth in a field of eight, the four high
men to be elected, and his vote was
37,792 as against 47,556, or 9,764 votes
short of the top man. His brother,
Charles V. Bryan, fared even worse,
his opponent, Keith Neville, polling
52,856, while he only polled 31,012, or
21,844 less than the successful Ne
ville. THURSDAY DOLLAR DAY
And It Will Be the Biggest Event of
Its Kind Ever Held in
the State
All roads will lead to St. Joseph
next Thursday, at which time "Dollar
Day" will be the order, and it will be
made the greatest event of Its kind
In the history of the state. There
have been a number of "Dollar Days"
held last fall and this 'spring, but
none will equal the coming event, for
the men In charge of It Moe E.
Mayer, Percy Johnson and H. B.
Drake know how to conduct a suc
cessful event and they will do It.
The merchants of St. Joseph are
ready for the1 event. They have more
and better and classier and pret
tier and cheaper dollar bargains than
ever before known at any place or at
any time. All roads lead to St. Jo
seph Thursday, May 18. Come.
The Noyes hospital was formally
opened to the public Monday, and pa
tients were received for treatment.
TIiIb splendid hospital will be a last
ing testimonial to the late C. W.
Noyes, who gave the money for Its
building and upkeep.
St. Joseph was signally honored
this week by the appointment of Mil
ton Tootle, Jr., as one of the vice
president of the B. P. B. Permanent
Blind Relief War fund for soldiers
and sailors of the European war, and
Mr. Tootle has accepted the appointment.
MITCHELL KILLED NEAR GOWER
The 12-year-old con of John Mitch
ell, a farmer living in the east part
of this county, about four miles north'
of Gower, was accidentally killed the
early part of the week while crawling
through a barbed wire fence with a
gun The boy and his father were i
out in a pasture when they saw some
young squirrels, and the boy ran back ,
to the house for a shotgun. In re
turning he was obliged to crawl ,
through a barbed wire fence, and In
so doing the gun was discharged, the
load penetrating his head and chest.
He lid about three hours. Dr. S. B.
Reynolds of State Hospital No. 2 was ,
at Gower at the time of the accident. I
'HE'S THE STUFF"
Orelius G. Harbison Is the Right Kind
to Send Out Over the
District
' His Family, His State, His City and
O. fJ Harbison of St. Joseph was ' His Community.
In town Thursday. He is a Republl-
can, but Is boosting Raleigh Martin for '
the Democratic nomination for con- With the drab hearse surrounded by
gress -Elmo Register. an escort 0f gray uniformed Turners
Harbison Is the right sort of stult the con,rades he so loved m lfe
he's the proper "medicine" to send the earthly remains of Alfred Meier,
aiound over the district-he certain- St Josepn.s well bfeoved citizen and
ly should "grab the otes." A Repub- bugneRS mani were on Tuesday after
Hcan of his standing and attainments noon conVeyed to beautiful Ashland,
should have no trouble at all in con-'where aIter a t0UcnIng cromony the
verting every Democrat he meets to at bo(ly wa lald t0 rest cternaL Wltn
once become an active partisan for the tears on their cheeks and sobs ln ther
man whom Harbison represents. throats and poignant sorrow in their
Just a few of Harbison's qualifica- heart!j the hundredg of reiaUves and
ttonu should suffice-and here are a frends gave a ,agt ook at ,ne flora,
ew: covered mound, then turned back to
On the second of March this year the city to again resume life's labors
Harbison filed with Federal Judge A. and to carry in their hearts loving
S. Van Valkenburg of this district a memories of 'he who had passed be
petltlon in bankruptcy. In this peti-.yond mortal vision,
tion he filed a schedule of assets and u ,g seI(om that gucn an assembage
uaomiies wmen recues wmi ne ue
J. L. McAninch 160,000; Sewell &
Carter of Burlington Junction. $1,600;
the Hughes County Bank of Blunt, S.
D.. and L. A. Tommy of Oneida, S. D..
$230 the Ross Lumber company of
Burlington Junction, $165; Lane & Mc -
Knight of Burlington Junction, $90;
Nicholas & Haney of the same place
165; the Nodaway Valley Bank of
Midyvllle, S5; C. Switzer & Co. of the
same place, $65, and Cora B. Tatman
of St. Joseph. $900, none of these
claims being secured. He also lists
$400 due for board to J. L. McAninch.
, , , . . . . l, u
In his statement of property which
he owns he lists 320 acres of land in
Weld county, Colorado, with some
stock in an irrigation company on
which there Is a mortgage of $17,500,
and of which he naively asserts in
his petition that "the above $17,500
being In the judgment of the bankrupt
more than said land is worth."
He- admits that he has no coods
or money except household goods and
wearing apparel worth $100, and these
he claims as exempt.
Harbison should most assuredly be
a vote catcher he should even be able
to convert those men and firms to
whom he owes that $82,000 with no
assets.
THE NOISE OF HILL
He Talks as If He Were In League
With the Republican Party Seek.
Ing a Campaign Issue
A. Ross Hill, president of the Uni
versity of Missouri, has been barn
storming over the state for the past
three weeks (presumably in the In
terest of the Republican party), yell-
ing at the op of his oice that the,tne deceaged WM & m
state of Missouri is "busted.' He the gongs gung wftg the ..GrRbenIeM ..
probably has taken his cue from The whch tranglated means gravegon
Globe-Democrat, whom no one be-1
lleres, and The Post-Dlspatcb, whom
no one but he could believe as these
two Republican organs each year turn ,., ..-.-i..,, .i,i u . .. . ,
... ,.,,.. tne organization which he attended,
a few contortions In their efforts to1 .. . . . ,. . . .
. ... . ...... ,, , i JIr Meers death was caused by a
hurt the best state In the Union. ' .,., , , .u u .. .
throat affection, and when he attend-
It might not be out of place to . ed the rehearsal a few weeks ago and
state to A. Ross Hill, In answer to j attempted to take part ln singing the
his vehement statement that "all the,Grabenield.. hlg voIce falled and he
state officials and hangers-on get was obiiged t0 desist. On being urged
their money first; what is left goes to f by tbe otner SBers to again attempt
other depaitments." that the state unl-t0 8ing he moodtiy replied: "No, boys,
versity has been very generously can.t glng M. tbroat hag gone back
taken care of-that it is In Itself bur- on me, and tnen added pr0phetlealjy
dened with the greatest crop of lt now appears: "My funeral will be
.'hangers-on" of any institution of the tne flm one at wheh you wl slng u
state and that when the next legis-lanynowt.and Jt wag
lature meets, one of the first things A Large Family
put through by one of the hold-over Born in LUcerne, Switzerland, sixty
state senators will be a resolution to elgbt years ag0i he came t0 Amerlca
Investigate the payrolls and expendi-j when but eIgbteen years of agei and
tures of the university and thencame dlrect to st j06epb wbere ln
there may be less noise heard from nn he wa8 marrt(i to Mlss Caroline
A. Rous Hill about a "busted Mis-, wildberger, who with seven sons and
sourl" to help the Republican party. . four daughters survive bim. For twen
Tuesday and Wednesday, the annual
meeting of the Women's Missionary
societies of tbe Missouri Conference
of the Southern Methodist churches
was held.
HIS DEATH IS
ST. JOSEPH'S L
OS
With the Passing of Alfred
Meier One of Its Best Loved
Citizens Is Gone
WAS LOVED AND
RESPECTED BY ALL
In His Brief Span of Sixty-eight
Years He Had Witnessed Many
Changes and During That Period He
Had Used His Talent and His Op
portunities for the Advancement of
All That Stood for the Good and
Betterment of Those Who Were of
of c,tizens takes place, and it spoke
ony too ghUy of te generous es.
teem ,n ,h,ch Alfre( Me,er WM he)d
Hls aterllnR quaUtles had endeared
h)m t0 a and wth J)Ig pags,ng
met t0 ,n thJg feeMe WflJ. g the,r
,80rrow and thelr esteem an( ,ove for
h,m who lg no more
AU of the cmmty and cMy officiag
I were , attendnnce and all bUBlneM
,nterests were fuly rtpregented. 1n
addition t0 tne Iocal representations
many vigltorg amJ deIegatlong carae
from other c,tJes and towng
Atchison We Represented
H
Atchison, the former home of the
deceased, was represented by a very
larSe delegation Iieaded by the fire
chlef- and in which delegation there
was also a bdy of Atchison Turners
and a Portion of the singing section.
Tne Kansas City Turnverien and the
German-American Alliance of Kansas
' CIt' each had a large delegation, and
St- Louls sent Count Von Reppert, a
! noted attorney of that city, with a
large delegation of the German-Amer-
i lean Alliance.
At the grave Count Von Reppert de
livered a masterly oration, In which
he told ln detail of the good qualities
and the splendid service of the de
ceased. ) Services at the Home
The services at the home were in
charge of Rev. F. C. Kllck, pastor of
jZion's Evangelical church, who in a
comprehensive address told of the es-
teem in wnich the deceased was held the Rocky mountain railroad limited
by all men and of the loss that bad'trans can do
occurred to the family and the com-l Thp npws 'that Fnrt snmter hn.i
munity. The services were held in
the west parlor of the home, which
was 'one solid assemblage of beautiful
floral emblems. The singing was by
the St. .Tnspnh Vnnnnorithni. nt wiln
and ln connection with Its rendition
calls up a significant remark made by
the dpCpflSPH nt the 1nt rohenronl f
ty years he resided In Atchison, where
ln his profession as an architect, he
planned and erected many of the
best structures there, which stand as
monuments to his memory. In 1898
be made his permanent residence
NUMBER 32
litre, and the handsome Block build
ing, Shaare Sholern Snagogue and
many other notable structures of St.
Joseph will for years to come stand
as reminders of his genius and tact.
He was county surveyor of Atchi
son county, Kansas, also city engineer
of AtchlFon while a resident there, and
In St. Joseph he was president of the
board of public works for seven jears
and did much effective work in this
public capacity. He was a Turner and
was known all over the Missouri Val
ley as an athlete. He was at the time
of his death third vice president of
the National German-American Al
liance, and the present president of
the local organization.
The family whom he leaves to de
plore the taking away of a true and
noble husband and father beside the
widow consists of his sons: George A.,
Henry O., Rudolph A., Oscar W., and
Charles W. Meier, St. Joseph; Fred
Meier, Rockford, Mo., and Kugene R
Meier, Kansas City. The daughters
are Mrs. David H. Baker, Atchison,
Mrs. Cecil C. Roberts, St. Joseph; Mrs.
Earl N. Cooper. St. Joseph, and Mrs.
Charles H. Ruder, St. Louis.
Alfred Meier was a man whom no
family can lose without an almost sev
ering of heart strings whom no city
or community can afford to lose, and
If they do his death comes as a pub
lic calamity.
DODD'S FAST DASH
It Recalls the Famous Riders of the
Pony Express on Their Dash
to the Coast
There Is much being said now of
the ride which Colonel Dodd's troops
made on his dash into Mexico after
the Villa bandits, and in which he
and his troopers covered fifty-five
miles ln beventeen hours, the ride be
ing made under most unpleasant con
ditions on account of the bad roads
and other miserable conditions.
Of course. Colonel Dodd's ride was
a notable one, but with what was
an everyday occurrence out of St. Jo
seph fifty years ago it was not eo
much of a ride.
When the old pony express was
started from this city, the marker in
Patee Park showing where the first
rider mounted his pony, which was
Inaugurated for the purpose of carry
ing mall from St. Joseph, Mo., to Sac
ramento, Cal., a distance of 1,966
miles, it was planned that each rider
should cover seventy-five miles a day
on three different horses.
It was found that twenty-five miles
was too much for the horses for a
regular unbroken gallop, and the dis
tance was reduced to from ten to
twelve miles. For that distance every
horse was pushed to his limit.
The snortest time in which the en
tire distance of 1,966 miles was cov
ered by pony express riders was made
In March, 1861. They carried Lin
coln's inaugural address to the Golden
state in seven days and seventeen
hours, an average speed of over 104
miles an hour.
A rider named Haslam dashed off
120 milps in eight hours and ten min
utes. Another pony expressman cov
ered one ten-mile stretch ln thirty-one
minutes, which is better than most of
been fired upon was flashed from St.
Joseph to Sacramento in eight days
and fourteen hours.
Jim Moore once rode 280 miles at
an average speed of eighteen miles
per hour. The horses were the best
that could be obtained and made short
runs of from ten to twelve miles.
No wonder that sometimes a letter
had $27 worth of stamps upon it when
carried under such extraordinary con
ditions! ONE OF PET CLAYTON'S JINGLES
Tbe young man whispered soft and
low, "I never loved another."
Then spake the, maid: "I didn't know
Ananias had a brother."
The Lincoln club, at the annual
meeting of the directors, honored
Capt. John A. Duncan by re-electing
him president of the organization.
The St. Joseph parks and driveways
are soon to be beautified with flowers,
shrubbery and other foliage from the
city greenhouses, and the work of
constructing the beds and designs la
under way.
The state convention of the Mis
souri Grand Lodge of the Degree of
Honor met for its triennial session
Tuesday at the I. O. O. F. hall, with
more than one hundied delegates in
attendance,
I!
.
it jl- .
