3Ja n&t
Stj, Ltb yoa a fanushtd or hb
furnished room for rest? Adw
tkt it u The San and let it be
brwging 70a is tomelhiag.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBER 37.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1910.
PRICE, 5c.
Nominate The&fore Roosevelt ani Win-Somebody Else and-Wilson
Bun
if
AN INFAMOUS OUTRAGE
The Governor of Florida Orders Catholic
Sisters Arrested.
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AROUSED.
The Most Flagrant Bigotry and Impudence Shown in the Contempt
ible Methods of Harassing the Pure, Sweet Sisterhood
of This Great Church.
WILL JUSTICE
Tlio state of Florida seems to hayo
gone stark mad In Its bigotry. It cele
brated Easter by ordering the arrest
of three Sisters of St. Joseph in the
ancient city of St. Augustine on Eas-
tn. MnnilaV 'Phta lo ttia 1 1 o rrf n n n tfaot
today stamps Florida before the eyes I
of tho nation. Catholic Sisters were j
marched as prisoners through the :
streets of tho oldest Catholic city In '
the United States, where the first j
mass was said, whefle tho first priest-1
martyrs shed their blood for the faith,
where the "first church was erected,
where Christianity was first preached.
And what was their crime? They
taught little colored children to read
and write and to know God, In a col
ored parochial school. Yes, that is a
crime In the state of Florida!
Three yeats ago a law was passed
forbidding whites to teach tho colored
in colored schools. The law forbids
teaching no other word Is used.
eHtace according to Florida law
the bishop of Florida, who Is white,
could be marched a prisoner through
the streets of St. Augustlno by orders
of Gov. Park Trammell if he dared
teach tho Bible to colored children In
the colored parochial school In the
ancient city.
When the law was placed on the
statute books of Florida it was held
to be unconstitutional by the best le
gal talent In the Btate. The law was
passed because In Florida "any bill
against the damn nigger must be voted
for," as one state senator expressed
it, and the governor, who was at one
time attorney general, signed the bill
and made It a law, because If he had
not signed' It he would have died po
litically there and then.
For three years that law remained
a dead letter. The very state Itself
violates that law In Its blind Institute
in St. Augustine. The sisters con
tinued their humanitarian work. Park
Trammell remained silent. The gov
ernment of the state had not yet been
handed over to the "gardeens," the
men who are led by Miles, tho shack
ler of the great Jeff Davis, the Immor
tal hero of the South.
Rut now, In 191G, the bigots, the low
est, most unprincipled men who ever
disgraced the fair name and ruined
the reputation of a state, are in com
mand. Men in high places are doing
their libeling In order to get votes,
and hence the Easter Monday crime
In St. Augustine. The white bigots
urged six poor, Ignorant Negroes to
petition the government to enforce
the unjust law: These six eNgroes
stand out before the colored popula
tion of America as enemies of their,
own race, which colored people them
selves are fond of declaring Is down
trodden in the South.
The governor, sllent heretofore, was
moved to action He ordered Sheriff
Perry of St. John's county to-- arrest
the Sisters, and Sheriff Perry had to
do the governor's bidding or lose his
A TRUE STORY.
The Milwaukee Free Press, which
Is published by a sylndlcate of brave
Germans in Milwaukee. Wis., which
has always rung true on the race
problem, has this to say In Its last
When President Wilson permitted
his Southern cabinet members to In
troduce the segregation of Negro em-'
-plor.es in their departments, ho gave
the cue that emboldened the -South
to apply a policy to Negro residents
In Its cities.
Prior to the president's indorsement
of the segregation principle no South
ern community would dare so to flout
democracy, idealism and justice as to
establish a pale for Its colored citi
zens. But once Woodrow Wilson sur
rendered to "lily white" prejudice in
his administration and consented to
drawing tho color line In tho federal
departments where nd one had
dreamed or desired such for halt a
century onO Southern' city after
another enacted restrictive legislation
designed to curtail the legal and civil
equality of the black man which the
Civil war was fought to assure.
FLOWERS FOR DECORATION DAY.
Tuesday, May 30, wo aro making
special preparations to take care of
our many customers on this memorial
day. By ordering early you will get
much better prices and bo sure of get-
ant nnr nriffln on uiowers ior an
occasions. We also carry a full lino of
the very choicest flowers. Deliveries
made to any part of tho city free,
"Weaver Flower and Fruit Store, 1510
E. 18th street. Bell phone E-4798;
Home phone 802 East.
-ft'
PERMIT IT?
Job. The moving power in tho whole
affair is bigotry, blind, unreasonable,
unjust In America.
Thus is Florida made a Pariah
among the states of the Union, a
laughing stock to the rest of the coun
try. The whole country Is Interested,
and In a special way the whole South.
In a land whose freedom of worship
is fundamental in our constitution,
that freedom is denied, and what mnn
cares to throw In his lot with a state
that will legislate any' people Into Ig
norance, that will deny radically the
American principle that this is a free
country. This Florida has done and
is doing.
Fiom one end of the state to the
other paid vllllflers of everything
Catholic are abroad preaching a gos
pel of hate. Discarded preachers,
itinerant Socialist operators, scoun
drels, caring nothing for God or man,
are now paid salaries by the bigots
of Florida to shower pornographic
filth against the small Catholic popu
lation of the state.
And, be it said to the eternal dis
grace of the men in high office, they
who will be elected to represent a
whole people and whose oath of office
binds them to measure ouf Justice to
all citizens of the state, regardless of
class or creed, are no wself-seeklng
bigots, toolsln the hands of the state's
worst enemies the vlllfiers, mlsrep
resenters, hate-preachers.
Florida invites settlers. But it 1?
no place for men who love fair play
and justice, who stand squarely, on
American princples of liberty, so long
as the state Is controlled by so-called
men who hate Justice and trample, on
the rights of fellowmen.
This" matter Is" now brought tp the
attention of the American public by
the Morning Star. We call on papers
all ove rthls republic to take cogni
zance of a condition which, rampant
In one state, may soon spread to other
states Publish Florida conditions
broadcast. The good people who have
been silent may wake up, and.perhaps
save the state before It Is too late.
For two years the respectable Protest
ant element has given the consent of
silence- to the nefarious propaganda.
Now Is the time to speak, or be for
ever silent.
Throughout the state the cry is:
"No Catholic- need apply." You are
wrong If you imagine that this condi
tion is confined to any small handful
of people or to any particular section
of Florida.' It is state-wide.
The spirit of unjust, unAmerican
and black-hearted bigotry which dlr
graced Fort Lauderdale is abroad, and
Floridlans today have become maniacs
of bigotry. Here and there some In
dividual or some journal may. utter
a wQrd of condemnation, but th-3 man
hood of the state seems to be para
lyzed by fear of the banded, blind
bigots.
This is Florida as sho Is today.
Catholic Register.
TROUBLE AyT ST. JAMES BAPTIST
CHURCH.
Pastor Charged With Conduct Unbe
coming a Christian Minister or
Gentleman.
MEMBERS - DEEPLY AROUSED.,
At. St. James Dantlst church, cor
ner Mill and High streets, Westport,
serious trouble was narrowly averted
between the astor, Rev. J. R. Wil
liams, and the director of the choir,
C. T. Perry, several nights ago. The
pastor drew his knlfS' on Mr. Perry,
so It Is alleged, and 'when Mr. Perry
refused to become frightened he
rushed Into tho house and seized his
revolver and threatened to shoot hfm,
but did not flro. The members aro
very much roughf up over this diffi
culty, which threatens' to destroy the
usefulness of the church' unless speed
ily settled. I, Mrs. Neey Perry, cer
tify that these statements' as pub
lished' nbo o actually1 occurred and are
true and that Mr. Perry was In no
wise to blame.
(Signed) NECY PERRY.
GRAND MASTER JESSEE DEAD.
Ex-Grand Master of Prince Hall
Grand Lodbe died suddenly Sunday
night about 8 o'clock after a long Ill
ness at his home In Mattoon, 111. Bro.
Jesseo had served as grand master
several years and was succeeded by
Brother A. A. Martin of Cairo about
three years ago. Brother Jesseo stood
high In Masonlo circles and as a citi
zen. He was a barber and conducted
ore of the best shops In that city.
Mrs. O. H. Purnell, 1312 Vine street,
was injured last Wednesday morning
while lighting a gas stove, Tho extent
of the burn will not- be serious.
REV. J. W. HURSE. D. D.
The famous pastor of St. Stephens Eaptist church, this city, who desires
to express his deep gratitude to his many societies and friends for
their sympathy and floral offerings on the occasion of the death of his
beloved wife a few weeks ago.
A PERSONAL TRIBUTE.
My Dear Editor: Will you please
all&w me space in your valuable paper
, . , V,
to express myself to my many friends ,
and to the public at large for their un-
limited tokens of kindness and sym-
pathy towards us through the serl-
ous illness and death of my beloved
Wife.
I wish to say to the public that !
whatever your conditions are in life 1
you. will always need, your frlends.-j
Eight years ago last December 2G I
took unto myself one Miss Jauie K. j
Fry or Lawrence, Kas., out of one
of the bes: families, white or black, t
in the whole community. In this I ,
found myself happily married to a .
perfect woman, and from the time I
married this great woman until the i
morning of our separation by death .
I over found her that same sweet
ana noDie cnaracter i married Dec.
2G, 190S. Jurlng the married period
we were blessed with six children
four boys and two girls. One years
ago last March God claimed one of
our boys, and at the death of my be
loved companion wo were left with
the five. Our oldest being 7 years
old and the youngest 8weeks old.
Yet we truly thank God that through
the long period of her Illness and death
we were never without the company
of friends.
To the Baptist and Methodist Minis
ters' Twin City Alliances and to the
churches they represent and the entire
Masonic family, the U. B. F. and S.
M. T., the K. of P. and Calantheans,
and especially It. W. Foster chapter,
O. E. S. and St. Stephen's Temple No.
322, S. M. T. the latter two of which
my wife held membership, and also
New Hope Temple. Queen Saferia
Temple, J. W. Hurse Temple, of which
I am the father; New Hope Temple,
of which I am a member, too much
can not be said complimentary to
these great women for their loyalty
shown my wife. I point to them with
pride as Christian ladles of the high
est type. To the grand master of Ma
sons of the jurisdiction of Missouri,
Hon. Nelson C. Crews, many thanks
for the sweet and loving words of com
fort and cheer. To the grand, mas
ter of the U. B. F. and S. M. T.. Dr.
J. H. Williams, I tender my thanks
LINCOLN HIGH COMMUNITY MEET
ING SCORES ,BIG HIT.
The final musical program of the
Lincoln High school extension was an
overwhelming success. More than
1,000 people wore In attendance last
Sunday afternoon and fully as many j lis. . .. Catholic biBhop of the Kan
moro were turned away on account !as "oc!"' lu Jtatater con
' ' ;. . T ,. flrmatlon to 65 colored people In St.
of the limited seating capacity. Every Mottlca-8 churcn Tno conferring oi
number on. the program was grand. J the sacrament of confirmation is re-
Tho singing of the 'estern Unlver
slty chorus was especially fine. They '
were compelled to respond to a halt
dozen encores. That this very pleas
ant; Innovation by. Principal Lee has
struck a responsive chord in the breast
of the colored people of this city was
demonstrated by the expression of re
gret that this was the last number
of the season, and by the prediction
that next season larger quarters would
have to be secured to accommodto the
large crowd that desired to attend.
Much credit is duo Prof. F. J. Work,
musical director, for tho excellence
ot these various programs, and ho has
indeed demonstrated a capacity and
versatility that has been pleasingly
surprising to tho patrons and friends
ot Lincoln High,
On Sunday, May 21, Hon. Frank P.
Walsh will deliver the closlnir nddress
ot the school year.
for his tender words of sympathy and 1
comfort. To Hon. W. C, llueston and
"10 ""' 9;.H- ''
law, I also thank them from the depth i
of my heart for he -kln(J jnd loving
words of sympathy, of cheer and of
comfort. All these shall berized by I
me and cherished In my heart i keep-1
sakes from my very dear and near
friends
I am now lost for lansuace and I
can not find words to express to my
deargoodocttrsiajgicoiC V,1 Brown
and his " co-Iabofers In the medical
world for the cautious,- watchful and
painstaking services rendered my wife. I
The principals and'teachers of the va-,
rlous schools of this great city I shall
ever very kindly remember for their ,
deeds of kindness and. loving words
of comfort shown me during my sad
days of bereavement. To the St.
Stephen's Baptist church and its offi-1
cers especially I want to say that In concerned, Is to say that here Is a
all tho days of my life I have never i man who Is ready to explain to the
known nor heard of a church doing , boys why it is necessary for them
what you have already done and are , to obey certain rules; here Is a friend
still doing now for a ilastor. You gave and adviser, who, with all his klnd
my wife one of tho greatest funerals ness, cannot easily be hoodwinked;
I have ever attended in all my life or here Is an administrative officer who
even witnessed, In your midst you
havo one of the best undertakers in
this whole country. Ho put my wife
away In the sweetest manner I have
ever seen. In the person of H. B.
Moore, my friend and brother, and
Jn return for your services tendered
me I am willing to serve you the rest
of my days as a church and as a peo
ple. To all mentioned above In this
article and to my many friends both
white and black, great and small, In
Kansas City, Mo., Chicago, 111., Nash
ville, Tenn., Denven Col., Houston,
Tex., Vlcksburg, Miss., New Orleans,
La., Oklahoma City, Ok., Colllervllle,
Tenn., Memphis, Tenn., Macon col
lege at Macon City, Mo., St. Louis,
Mo., Great Falls, Mont., my dear, lov.
Ing and faithful old mother joins me
In tendering my heartfelt thanks and
high appreciation to our many friends,
both white and black, for the most
wonderful as well as beautiful floral
tokens I ever saw and for the many
kind words of sympathy of cheer ana
comfort, both written as well as spok
en. REV. J. W. HURSE, D.D.
MRS. JOblE HURSE,
, Mother.
CONFIRMATION SERVICES.
At Monica's Colored Church, Seven
teenth and Lydia Avenue, Sun
day Morning at 10:30.
Next Sunday morning at 10:30
, o'clock tho Rt. Rev. Bishop T. F. LU-
garded as a most Important event In
tho church, whlhch can be given only
by tho bishop. Tho services begin
promptly t 10:30 with mass sermon
by tuo bishop and! confirmation. I
cordially Invite all colored people to
come to St. Monica church Sunday
morning and witness; these grand cere
monies. FATHER CYPRIAN,
O. F. M.
TEACHERS WANTED.
Two young women teachers can se
cure a -position in the colored school
at Moberly, Mo., by addressing Robert
Klngsberry, secretary of , tne school
board, Moberly. They must have first
grade state certificates or a diploma
from Lincoln Institute or some other
college, You must hurry.
! Mrs. Florence M. Ctowb, who Is ex
I trnmnlr lnw. nhnwa na sltm nf tmnmvn.
I ment.
FROM OYSTERMAN and farmer
TO COMMANDANT.
Story of Allan W. Washington of
Hampton Institute.
"Big Boy I" This Is the affection
ate nickname which the Hampton In
stitute students have for Allen Wads
worth' Washington, now the associate
I commandant of cadets, who is official-;
jly known as "Captain Washington"!
J and will be the successor of Major
j Itobert It. Morton, who, In turn, Is the
wen-Known pnincipal-elect or Tuskegee
Institute.
Growing boys are keen Judges of
character and whom they follow others
do well to understand and appreciate.
Testing Education by Results.
Some years ago It used to be said
that If Hampton had done no more ,
than train Booker T. Washington, It,
would have pald-for-itself many times !
over. Recently the Nation, especially I
the South, has been rejoicing that Ma-!
jor Moton, another distinguished
graduate of Hampton, would soon take
up Dr. Washington's heavy burden at
Tuskegee. Today, the friends of
Hampton and of Negro education are
rejoicing that another self-made,
Hampton-trained man, Allen Wash
ington, will become the commandant
of cadets at Hampton where he was
graduated in 1891 a product of the
pioneer of Gen. Chapman Armstrong.
Allen Washington came to the
Hamptgn school on the lower penin
sula of Virginia from Gloucester coun
ty a county well known on account 1
of the large percentage of Negroes 1
who own their farms and their homes; ,
Negroes who are law abiding and ,
thrifty; Negroes who have won the '
respect of the best white people be-j
cause of their industry and good char-1
acter. !
i Starting Work as-Student.
Alien Washington entered tho Hamp
ton Institute in September, 1885, and
became what is called a "work stu-1
dent;" that is, he worked by day at.
manual labor and then went to school i
fr IL v"16 I
week. In 1889 he finished the har-1
nessmaker's trade and then spent twp j
years In the Hampton day school aca-'
demlo department. j
After his graduation, Allen Wash-
ington was employed by day in the 1
harness-making shop and by night he
helped In tho commandant's depart-,
ment. During the next year he spent j
one-hair or his day In the harness shop
and one-half In the commandant's of-
fice. Little by little he became more
active In the disciplinary work and
saan found his full stride in handling
boys handling them with sympathy
and still with firmness.
Negro Leadership.
How does a colored man handle his
own people? To answer this ques-
tlon, so far as Captain Washington is
is willing to explain with calmness
what Is what and Is then prepared to
Insist that boys must do their part to
maintain the high standards which
have characterized Hampton for near
ly fifty years.
A Big Brother in Action.
Captain Washington is, indeed, a
"Big Brother" to the 500 Negro and
Indian boys who are being trained at
Hampton for leadership in school-
teaching, farming and mechanical In-,
dustrles. He Is friendly but emphatic '
in hi sadministratlon of discipline. He ,
is willing to put the facts squarely to
boys and- he expects them to do their
best. Even when he has to send away
an occasional boy, he gives the best
kind of advice and has In this way
started many boys on a higher path.
Allen Washington's career is typical
j of thousands of Negroes who, during
i fifty years of freedom, have emerbed
from a very simpie life to take their
, places as leaders In a complex clvlllza-
Hon.
Leading and Serving
As an officer of the Hampton School,
Captain Washington has taken part In
many educational and financial meet
ings which have been held to create
new Interests In Negro education. He
has traveled far and wide speaking
on behalf of Hampton and the ideas
for which Hampton stands. He knows
the South and conditions which his
people face. He was one of Dr. Wash
ington's closest friends and associates.
He has taken an active part in the
constructive work of several Negro
organizations which aim to promote
race relations.
Captain Washington Is treasurer of
the Negro Organization Society of Vir
ginia, which is carrying to over 300,000
Negroes tho message ot "Better
Health, Better Schools, Better Farms
and Better Homes;" and financial sec
retary of th& Hampton Institute Alum
ni Association. He Is also president
o ftho Summer Literary Society which
is composed of colored men and wom
en who make a serious study of the
best literature,
Captain Washington has received in
struction from some of the best U. S.
Army officers who have been stationed
at Fort Monroe. He is a thorough
drlllmastcr and tactician. He believes
in his own race, as we'll as in white
people. Ho preaches the doctrine of
success through struggle to the boys
under his charge.
Racial Good Will.
Whether as a farmer, an oysterman,
n Yinmpnamnlcnr. n ritartnllnnrlnn or a
1 trusted officer In some Negro organl-
A. M.'E. GENERAL CONFERENCE
Celebrates Its 100th Anniversary in "Mother" Bethel,
the First Church Established by Richard Allen
i in Philadelphia, Pa.
Thousands of Delegates and Visitors in Attendance Many from
Missouri and Kansas.
The General Conference of the A.
M. E. church convened in Bethel
church, Sixth street near Pine, last
Wednesday, May 3, with COO delegates
In attendance and thousands of visit
ors. Bishop Benjamin F. Lee, senior
bishop, presided at the opening ses
sion and the services were participat
ed in by all of the fourteen bishops
of the church.
After the prelude by the organist
of Bethel A. M. E. church, Bishop Lee
led the first responsive lesson.
Bishop Benjamin T. Tanner an
nounced the first hymn, "And Are We
Yet Alive to See Each Other's Face?"
The Invocation was made by Bish
op J. S. Flipper.
The second responsive Scripture les
son was led 'by Bishop Charles S.
Smith.
The Decalogue was led by Bishop
John Hurst.
Scripture reading by Bishop Joshua
H. Jones, the first Epistle of John,
third chapter.
The second hymn was announced
by Bishop W. D. Chappelle, "O, for a
Thousand Tongues to Sing."
The quadrennial sermon was deliv
ered by Bishop H. Blanton Parks of
Chicago, text 22d erse of the 2Cth
chapter of the Acts of the Apostles:
"Having therefore obtained help of
God, i continue unto this day." Bish
op Parks delivered one of the most
practical sermons In the history of
the conference, prefacing his remarks
with an earnest prayer to God for His
divine blesings and then reciting the
growth of the church from the day of
its organization down to the present
time.
After the sermon the holy commun
ion was admlnlstertd to bishops, gen
eral officers and ministers by Bish
ops Evans, Tyree, L. J. Coppm, Jas.
M. Connor, J. Albert Johnson and Cor
nelius T. Shaffer.
During the administration of the
communion the Bethel choir furnished
excellent music, led by Prof. J. A.
i.T. REV. RICHARD ALLEN. "
Founder of the African Methodls Episcopal church and Its first bishop,
whose centenary Is being celebrated in Philadelphia this month.
zation, Allen Washington has always t
retained his native simplicity of (
speech, sincerity and spirit of racial i
good will. I
It is to men of the type of Booker T.
Washington, Robert R. Moton and Al
len Washington that more and more
people are looking today for helpful
suggestions relating to the race prob
lem. HELENA, MONT.
By MRS. MATTIE McGINNIS.
Sunday, April 30, was quarterly
meeting at St. James A. M.. E. church.
Rev. Rossman ot Great Falls, Mont.,
held our quarterly meeting for the
presiding elder, Rev. Douglass, who
left Thursday to rthe General Con
ference at hPiladelphla..,.Mrs. J, E.
W. Clark left Wednesday for an ex
tensive visit East and to her home
in the South.... Mrs. Ella Simons Is
still on the sick list. . . .Mrs. Ada Sals
burg had a slight operation on Friday
at St. John's hospital.,., The Tuske
gee singers arrived In Helena Friday
enroute to Butte, and while hero they
were entertained by one ot their old
friends, George M. Lee, Jr., and wife
at their residence on Breckenrldge. , .
Miss C. V. Ford, who has spent the
winter In Seattle and Spokane, Is ex
pected home soon,.., Mrs-, Ed'Johnson
entertained a few friends last week
In honor of Mrs. Vera BIckford of Vir
ginia Clty....T. K. P. gave their first
banquet May 10; $1-50 per couple....
Mrs. L. Walker entertained tho Busy
Bee club at her home Thursday even-
lng....M. Floree gave a party at the
Clarke, general conference musical di
rector. Closing hymn, "Praise God From
Whom All Blessings Flow."
On the platform was the stand used
by Bishop Allen, and Bishop Coppln
held up the chair which Bishop Allen
j used 100 years ago.
Bishop Lee announced that the ses
sion would convene at 3:30 p. m.
Benediction by Bishop William IL
Heard.
Adjournment at 1:15 p. m.
In the afternoon session after a
spirited contest Rev. W. B. Johnson
i of Georgia was elected secretary with
1 power to appoint his assistants. One
marshall was selected for each epis
copal district, tho fifth being repre
sented by George W. Teeters. Tho
quadrennial sermon was preached by
Bishop H. B. Parks of our own dis
trict, taken from Acts 2C and tho 22d
verse, and it was declared a master
piece by all who heard it. Tho cen
tennial sermon was preached by Bish
op Benjamin F. Lee, while the epis
copal address was read by Bishop I.
J. Coppln. The laymen held a meet
ing during the evening and organized
by electing Dr. C. V. Roman of Nash
ville, chairman, and Dr. F. P. Lytes
of Arkansas sceretary. There weroi
100 laymen present.
The general sentiment is for tho
election of four. bishops. On Sunday
May 7, a great mass meeting, where
25,00 persons were assembled, was
held In the convention hall. Tho
speakers were Bishops J. H. Jones of
Wllberforce, Dr. I. N. Ross of Balti
more, Dr. W. H. Mixon of Selma, Ala.,
and Dr. W. T. Vernon of Memphis,
Tenn.
On May 1C-18-20 the great historical
pageant, "The Star of Ethiopia," will
be given under the direction of Prof.
W. E. B. DuBols -with a cast of 1,000
actors. Oun May 21 tho conference
will close and a full account of the
proceedings of the conference to data
will be given in our next issue.
residence of Mrs. Wm. Mason In honor
of Miss Eula Gay. All the society
lads and lassies were present. Danc
ing and games were enjoyed. .. .Mrs.
Ed Johnson gave an afternoon Tues
day in honor of Mrs. BIckford of Vir
ginia City. ...Mr. and Mrs. Hathway
left Wednesday for Butte after two
months' visit in the city.... Mrs. Ada
Sallsburg underwent an operation ot
the throat and at this writing is do
ing nicely Mrs. J. W. Clarke left
for the East last Tuesday,... Mrs. A.
E. Douglass ot Mousha Is expected in
the city to visit friends Bhortly....
Sunday Is tho annual sermon ot tho
Household ot Ruth. The services will
be held at the A. M. E. church....
Rev. I. S. Wilson will deliver the ad
dress.... Mrs. Elmer Green, who went
to Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, will
return, to Oakland, Cal., shortly....
Tho K. of P. will give a banquet at
Germanla 'hall May 10.... Mrs. Etta
White, Mrs. J. Seals and Mrs. John
sou are all reported convalescent....
Klayor Green has opened a. rooming
house on Cutler.
The funeral of Mrs, E. L. Ward was
held last Tuesday afternoon from Al
len chapel, conducted by Rev. F. D.
Wells, assisted by Rev. Davis and
Roy, McClaln. Mrs. Ward was a mem
ber of Allen chapel for thirty years.
I past matron of Star ot the West
' Court No. 77, H, of J.; Ruth chapter
i No. 4, O. E. S.J Daughters of Isls,
I Ladles of the Golden Circle, Ruth
' Court, O. O. C. Sho leaves a husband
t several other relatives to mourn her
loss.
