THE BARRE DAILY, TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 51.
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, MAY 13, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
REPULSES
' CONTINUE
German Efforts to' Break
Down French Barriers
" Fail Repeatedly
SERIOUS LOSSES
FOR KAISER'S ARMY
Battles Near Douaumont
Fort and Thiaumont Farm
Won by the French
Paris, May 13. French trenches south-
to America, was published by the Wiro
less Tress yesterday under a Bcrno
ditte. It reads:
"I have said before that wo must
drop all sentimentality. J repeat that.
With regard to our dispute w ith Ameri
ca, our aelf-rrHpeet was wounded by the
aggressive wording of the American note
to Germany. Our feelings urge us lo
repel this interference without legitimate
methods of warfare and tell America to
mind her own business, , but considera
tions of policy compel us to subordinate
patriotio seal to patriotic reason. We
must be guided, however, not by our
feelings, but by the coolest judgment.
"He have one aim and one duty.
namely, to win the war: therefore any
policy which endangers our victory must CAPTAIN FORCED
a uvniilaA tT'lii itvaru'lialminn riintlll'rt I
of relations with America is a grave
peril,
A great mistake iias been committed
in overstating the value of the subma
rine eanrpaign against England. Our
naval experts no longer believe in the
probability ot reducing England to star
vation and ruin by submarines, even if
the war lasts another two years. It is
true that these instruments can inflict
a frightful amount of damage, but this
damage would be insufficient to out
weigh the danger to ourselves of Amerl
ea's hostilities. It is folly to underes-
NEW AFFRONT
TO SWEDEN
German Submarine De
stroyed Schooner with
Fire and Shell
TO LEAVE SHIP
9
After He Had Hoisted the
Swedish Flag Over
the Vessel
BANKER ACQUITTED
IN FALSE ENTRY
CASE IN U.S. COURT
ARMY READY TO
MAKE DASH
ARTISTIC SENSE TYPIFIED.
If Report Is Received Con
cerning Villa or Villa
Bandits
George C. Averill of Brattleboro Freed of
Charge After Long Trial Jury
Out with the Case
Ten Hours.
Burlington, May 13. The jurv which
has heard the case of the United States
against George C. Averill, charged with
having ma(fe or caused to be made false
I entries on the books of the ertnont K-
U., .,1- Tir-u li.k. 1 i I ka ,a m
president, returned a verdict at 9:10 IKUUro LULiLijkj L iU,
...... . ...
o'clock last evening or not guilty, after TIMF. QHORTRMn inr s,,hool in RHr i. .. th.t. th.
detection In attendance among 163 stu
dents, the largest in the history of the
school, nag been smaller in 1915-1918
In Exhibition of Work Done by Barre
Evening Drawing School.
Once agaiii the people of Barre are
privileged to inspect the work of the
industrial art students who are enrolled
in the Barre evening drawing school.
The attendance at the exhibit, which is
being held in the basement of the Math-
nwsoii school, was unusually large last
evening and the faculty and students
are anticipating a continuation of the
interest shown on the occasion of the
exhibit's opening. Recently the school
closed its fifth and most successful year.
Indicative of the growing interest in
the ma in ten a nee of a free evening draw-
145,000 F'OPLE
IN N0VP1ARCH
o
Men and V .ien Gave Dem
onstration of Their Be
lief in Preparedness
an absence of ten hours. The case has
been a long one, covering ten days' time,
The testimony was completed Thursday
afternoon. Court last evening adjourned
200 BANDS PLAYED
PATRIOTIC TUNES
sine die, the Averiii case being the last to Meanwhile the Situation in
be tried at this term. . . ...
Judge Augustus Hand, before whom Washington IS at
the case was heard, gave his charge to I j-.tMi
Washington, D. C, May 13. The Mexi-
than in anv ot.her vese sinee t.h a.hnn1
was established m 1911. indeed, ne urear, .raraae aetran m
..1. ...!... .: i ii j j . I o
l n,, ii uutilUBlKBlU JIBVS tllf BlUUCHll mUll'l XT- 'XT 1 fTH
ifcsted in the ' opportiiities extended JACYV I UTK J.I11S
them that the faculty has found it necea- 1f Mmi-nn.'
sary to hold two separate sessions in ma-vuiiii
oraer to accommodate trie classes in
quarters that, admittedly, are none to
large for the school and the work incor
porated in the curriculum. Jewr York, May 13. The belief tin 6
the jury at the opening of court yester
day morning. He first gave an interpre
tation of the law in regard to the Btatute
which provides for the correct keeping of
Ki.n.im ta m nThA the books of a national bank by its offl-
eres- ...-j - u. .i.i.j ;t . . j: "i -e :i ' ' '
west of Douaumont fort and positions to tiniate4he consequences of a conflict captain of the Swedish schooner Harold . 'f . . u . f can situation showed no signs of frame- This afternoon the school will be open nations should prepare for war was ex-
the north of Thiaumont farm were vio- with America, nor should we risk only gives in a local paper an account of the must find beyond a reasonable doubt that diate change to-day. l'resident Wilson to the public from to 5 clock and pressed to-day by nearly 145,000 men and
lently bombarded yesterday, according America s enmity. uur iniorniauun ginking of hm suip py. a German subma- the defendant made or caused to be mad
.v.-. ,,..,,,, Th. rnrt 'u" UB l" oiee iu.iii u. . , v . -n.. on the dooks oi ine oanK entries wun in
w wwv.uw.... '"-might follow America's lead. The im- ,v w"" J" 1 i tent to deceive the officers of the bank or
says that all German attacks were re- pcrial government has weighed every ""P w mUd by the submarine, which the gflen(g of the g0vernment sent to
pulsed, the enemy sustaining serious factor and is convinced of the necessity gave the crew 15 minutes to aoanaon tne examine the books.
losses. On the left bank of the Mouse oi avoiding a oreacr. witn America. schooner. The captain refused and hoist- tie instructed the jury .lot to be
the artillery combats continue uninter- ' - Z Swedish flag, whereupon the Ger- .y V .JPr. L- e8S .the ,ury -- V tntrarr: it7s df.ned P' J
ply such as may reserve future liberty n ooaruea ui sc.ooner, pu.m
of action. If the situation changes we. leura over the ship and lighted it.
may cancel our concessions to Ameri- then attacked the captain with cutlasses, should return a verdict of not guilty.
ca and resume unrestricted submarine I forrinn- liim into a small boat.
ilson
lniormauon inV.in nf .i.in K . n.erman nhma- the defendant made or caused to be made lis cruisine down Uiesaneake bay on the -p. . " -!., m.nj,;nn. ln v,.
b -- r -v ...... ...n...,. ;.u s ... " .... ' . . . o'clock. Un Jlondav evemmr the ex- "
Mayflower and lid not expect to return hjbit wi . u . r. ... processions ever assembled for the pro-
before Sunday or Monday. Secretary of fr0m 6:30 to 9 o'clock. It should bo motion of any idea. There Were 20
War Baker has taken a week-end trip to understood that the exhibit in.no sense abreast, fillinir the tiwta from ciirh in
Atlantic City, and General Scott ..chief of is confined to those : who haye relatives Lurb k , ,t fe patriotic tunes
staff, en route from EI Paso to Washing-lor friends m attendance at the regular . 1 ' r
rupted.
BRITISH ADMIT A
LOSS OF 500 YARDS
ON FIRST LINE
Furious German Attack Netted Big Gain,
But British Claim That Counter
Attacka Won Back Part of
, the Territory.
London, May 13 Switching their at-
boarded the schooner, poured petro- si(jeiit dec,jv,( ttccordjng to evi- Obregon, is not expected until early next to provide an opportunity for the public The parade began this morning and
1 ny denee submitted by the government, they week. to inspect wie wprK tnat students are wm last 12 Hours or longer. There vera
. . ' i n-i 3 a a ii i i i I
of not guilty. me aeparuneni. auinonnrs rm- uo.ng in a iree evening scnooi, main- 20,000 women in the line, also workers in
Judge Hand then gave a brief summary pnasiwu mi an-uougu iwwmn8 "ri " peopiu. a) occupations, lawyers and other pro-
oprations, but for the present we muet Th fthfe.,in n(.trolenm not destrorinir of tl,e evid,'nce of th" government and centratmg his forces m Meueo and is fwo divisions of students In an en- feKgional men, city officials and employes,
overcome our feeling and pursue the , , . , , t. defense, taking up the claims of the pros-1 "norwmug unr ui guuuuuuuvivu, ran ui joo. as ueiore eiatea, nave ana m.ooo members of the National
policy most conducive to final
over our enemies. .
cashier's checks, the reference to the or MUa bandits. opened in September. Principal Charles The lawyers division was led by 20
How land Pulp & Paper company, and tamperi has been ably assisted by tarlo justices of the supreme court. The march-
FAIR PLAINTIFF
AUTOPSY ORDERED
the reports of the comptroller forwarded i
Abate, Alexander loungson and Robert! era were divided into 64 divisions, th
nniTtnnmtniridorr, In t, a n.',7- l i by the bank. The question to consider in Knox. Jt is a matter of regret that in first of which moved at 9:30, and it was
DENIES SHE KISSED 00 of Chud Whlch rnei at Falr general, he staU-d, was the question of Winooski ChUd Had Close Call-Revol- th8 'e Urn school is to be deprived expected the .last division would not
nven inutsiuy, latent on the part Of the president. v,r in Tittu Trnthrrm Hniif services or .nr. loungson, wno una rcacn ine aisoanaing point until 1V.M
T?tln rv l.lTho .,lHon rfMt.1i t he case was given to the Jury shortly s""1 w lw w "" w-ubw
' . " 1. r J . ,1 T-r t I m 1 t Ol i. T .. . I, I rT.ra A n t t - J
Derore 11 ociock in ine morning, ana i Yinwsn.i, m y 10. tv iubuj, ut(..i,ituio, m-mcuuii j
SEVERAL YOUTHS
BULLET GRAZED CHEEK.
tack from the erdun region against the Uur4 Johns0n Admitted that She Had aBfl bunaI of an ,,,fant cll,ld of SI,M JenM about 2:30 o'clock in the afternoon they the six year-old-son of Mr. and Mrs. ing and drafting, advanced drafting and ACTED VERY STRANfiFIY
Extended List of Acquaintances in
Burlington Had No Engage
ment Token from Rev.
Wtfson.
French, the Germans have begun again a
sharp offensive against the British line
around Hulluch.
Preceding their movements with the
usual heavy bombardments, the Germans
loosed an infantry attack against the
British lines in the region of Vermellcs
' and were successful in capturing first line
trenches over a front of about 500 yards.
The British admit the loss of the posi
tions, but say thfcit part of them were re-
Berlin declares that in their 'defense counsel for the defendant, saying that county court Miss LaCombe brought suit
nf iht trenches, and esneriallv later in she had never had anv entrapment tuk- lucrainst Owen E. Williams of Castleton
the counter attacks, the British suffered! en from the defendant. Bishop Coad- in an attempt to recoveV for the support Program of Exercise June 24-28 Pag
heavy casualties and in addition lost men jutor George i. Bliss, of the diocese otlof the child, but after a several days I ant a Feature.
made prisoners ana several niucn me guns i Vermont, testmea ior me aeiense tnaBiinai ine couri ruiea in iavor oi me ue-i program for the Annual oommence
Around Verdun the French on the left came to him for consolation he asked The circunysUnces surrounding the
bank of the Meusehave recaptured points! her if the defendant had ever asked her I death of the infant eould not be learned
of vantage previously taken from them to marry him, and she replied that hei lt night, as the otllcials refused to d.
nie LaCombe, who lives in the town of ramP : for instructions in retard to the James Lusby of Main street, narrowly modelling, are represented in the twq
Fair Haven, was under investigation by holding of collections at the bank. This escaped death by a bullet from a 3h- rooms given over to the exhibit. Then, Tmrf Brovafli Was Finallv Taken Tut n
... . . . . I.. . j- , j ji 1 . I 1 . 1 T T . 1- 1 -.1 f t linr. tha Uwtn. n f ... J
State s Attorney v.". v . l oulin ana JJeputy l itern was noi meniionea in ue maict- chhd ireri una ounumra rnunci wui , v..v. u.,,,..,,, ulc
ei..r;iT p..i pii f iw. ,.w. v.a.rJ.r ment, Their verdict was brought in at 12 o'clock yesterday afternoon, when his modelling department, which is to be
kit. tm . t.tvk. t..t v.- .t ..o-.v.- tu. J.r j i. I .. - . ;At,.U j;.,1,.rn.,l iwrmittMl in nrmc in imof ulnoo. in f hn I tjlf .f A .. 1 1 .1 l J
O. Ill Ul-KJV. X Urit'IlUH!!l WHS HCWJJ1- I J fUliltri Uiutiiri Vivt'ivli m J utDvip- r ..-.- J" v.. i Jiaii vi nrrm blicci, ii.-niiy iaiai,M4
ana last nignt tne lormer oracrea "e pani,,,j to the courtroom by his son and dieek of Robert. Donald, five years old, coming year. Specimens of lettering, and with fear, was relieved late yesterday
bodv disinterred and an autopsy wan I .,,i,(, .... k-. ;"ii. j,,.: I a Pk.r n ( nlv in k rnnm. I Droiectinc and nrorective drawinor are I ftjmwn whnn the rwillo tnrSr in n.
Boston, May 13. ln the second day's p(,rforrned at Fair Haven this morning the entire trial, which began a week ara which was locked by them. During their shown to excellent advantage in thia I tody Luigi Brovalli, a granite cutter, who
proceedings of the Johnson-W iluou by B jf stone and C. F. Whitney of lt Tuesday. Foreman Talcott gave the play Robert crawled to the top of a year s exhibit. It seems that pupils, con- had manifested very positive symptoms
breach of oromige suit the plaintiff LiL. v' L. : d... verdict as not iruiltv. and the iury was boo'kease over a desk and there found sidered as individuals, have made more of insanity in a brief, but meteoric ca-
. . i . a . .... ... . . . . P. I J. 1 II . I . i.t 1 f . i I . : t. I , Mnn.... M . . f r m r .Kn Ka tAAn a!aI 1 AAW n l.m..
DroKe down under cross-examination oy ,. . .... , . j. , n , aiscnargea Dy tne court.
.., r. ,., tu' lington. At the last term of Rutland . '
U. V. M. COMMENCEMENT.
southeast of HaucouVt by the Germans, had rtbt.
Bombardments are again taking place in
the vicinity of Le Murt Homme and j
Attorney Stickncy at the opening of
court yesterday took up the cross-ex
Cumieres fend against the French first animation of the plaintiff. She told of
J J t - A 1 II.. V. 1 I . ... . 1
the ratihcation of her engagement in
I July, and shortly afterward broke down,
and second line trenches on the right
bank of the Meuse between the Haudro
mont wood and Vaux. A German attack
southeast of Fort Douaumont was re
pulsed. On the Russian and Italian front
the usual activity prevails but no
changes are recorded.
cuss the case, in that no warrants had
been issued or any arrest made.
The child was three months and 2t)
days old and was said to have died some
time Thursday. E. J. Seamans, under
taker at Fair Haven for the Cahee House
mcnt exercise at th University of Ver
mont is announced follows:
Saturday eveaing, June 24 Kingsley
prize speaking contest. College Street
Congregational church, S p. ffl.
Sundtiy, June 25, 4:30 p. m. On the
college green, the baocalaureate sermon.
Monday, June 26 Class day exercises,
fraternity receptions and meeting of the
board of trustees.
to his
rant.
home over the Arcade restau-
j , J ' Mm - , , i . 1 1 r- , I f . l
being able to maintain her composure 'MHng io., receivea a can inursuay Tuesday. June 27 Alumni breakfast,
only by frequent use of smelling gaits. . . . . , 1 1 a.
ITALIAN ATTACKS
WERE BEATEN BACK
According to Austrian Official Statement
Artillery Combats Are Continuing
with Varying Intensity.
BeTlin, May 13. A wireless official
Austrian statement of yesterday says,
regarding the events on the Italian front,
that artillery combat of varying in
tensity continue. Two attacks by the
enemy against Mrzlivhr were repulsed.
only by frequent use of smelling
The plaintiff testified to being ac
quainted with Douglas Roberts, Roy
Sawyer, and Louis Dow of Burlington,
but denied . that they ever kissed hej.
She then admitted that she knew Joseph
0. Corley of Boston and that she had
called on Mr. Corley in Boston to ask
him not to tnstify except of ins own
volition. She denied that Mr. Corley
kissed her or that she kissed him. She
admitted going riding with him.
Miss Johnson testified that she went
girl lives with a sister and two brothers.
He did not go to the house until vester-
day morning and at 2 o'clock in the aft
ernoon the child was buried in the Cas
tleton cemetery without any ceremony.
The death certificate was signed bv the
health officer, Dr. R. Lape, in whicli he
gave the cause of death as mal nutrition.
m.; baseball, 2:30 p. m.j president's
reception, 4:30 p. m.j Wig' and Buskin
observance of Shakespeare's tercentenary
in presentation of "Twelfth Night," at
Grassmount, 8 p. m-j fraternity reunions,
10 p. m.
Wednesday, June 28 Anniversary
commencement day, 9 a. m., historical
pageant by undergraduates and alumni
RUSSIANS NEAR BAGDAD.
MUST WITHDRAW CONDITIONS.
After Surmounting Many Difficulties
Made By Mountains. .
Petrograd, May 13, via London. The
Russian force in Fersia, which, during
the last 10 days has completed the ar
duous task of traversing the 'mountain
district separating it from the Turco
Prussian frontier, drivinsr the Turks on
their strongly fortified base of Khanikin, weight and her appetite was impaired
now stands at the very threshold of Mes- because she did not hear from Mr. il-
opotamia and future developments in son after she had left Burlington.
connection with the Russian expedition Sensational evidence was introduced
toward Bagdad are being awaited with in the depositions of Miss Mabie and
to Dr. Bliss for consolation and that he
said he thought her relations with the ported to State's Attorney Poulisi and
defendanut were nothing more than an I following his preliminary investigation
infatuation. the body was ordered disinterred and an
Mrs. Johnson, mother of the plaintiff, autopsy was performed at the undertak
waa then called on and testified that tha ing rooms of the Cahee concern in Fair
defendant had called on Miss Johnson Haven this morning,
frequently, specifying "six times a
week," and that on several occasions
he had. accompanied the mother aud
daughter home from church service.
She testified that she had overheard
conversations between her daughter and
Mr. Wilson in which they both seemed
greatly agitated. She said that the de
fendant said he could not marry her
daughter because of vows of celibacy
which he had taken,
fiustavus Johnson, father of the plain
tiff, testified that 'his daughter lost
a i - . . Tt. t i i- . l:. r"S"
,,K "". r "Bl'r OT"e ms 11 a. m., anniversary commencement ex
..... .... , v... I erciss with oration hv Hon. Ham-in
Child Had No Medical Aid. Kingsley, class of 181, trustee of the
The mother called no physician until unlvTSlty nd Pr . P" . f th New 1 ork
the child Jiad died. The matter waa re- i " iwwwru oy cnnicr
ring of degrees; 2 p. m., corporation din
ncr.
That Part of German Reply Objected to
By United State.'
Washington, D. C, May 13.-ScreUry Co-operative I
of State rinsing yesterday afternoon !'atln' Pc" P"m"'S,0n l
made it plain that all contemplated pro
tests to Great Britain for violation of
American rights would lie held up until
(rermany withdrew her statements that
her following international law was con
tingent on the American government
forcing England to do so, made in the
German answer to the American ultima
tum. '
GRANGE INSURANCE COMPANY
Has Been Licensed to Operate in Vert
tnont.
Bellows Falls, May 13. Guy W. Bailey
and Walter . Scott, insurance commis
sioners, for the state of Vermont, held a
public meeting in the office of Rvder A
Graham yesterday afternoon and granted
Disability asso
transact busi
ness in the state
The association was organized here
last March. Its officers consist of men
prominent in the grange in Vermont, and
it is planned to insure members of the
Patrons of Husbandry against financial
loss because of illness and injuries. None
but members of the grange msy be mem
bers.
the greatest interest.
PEACE OVERTURES FAIL.
Coming Through American Sources ars
Not Acceptable to Great Britain.
Mrs. Cora Arons of Lakeville, w hich told
of parties at Fort Ethan Allen, (Mr.
Wilson and Miss Johnson attending) at
hich beer and punch were indulged in
freely by every one present.
(my B. Horton testified that he was
.miss Johnsons counsel when this cae
I.ondn, May 13. Peace overtures by (was brought and that she had received
Germany as outlined from American callers at his home,
sources cannot be accepted as a basis for
British negotiations. This statement
was madeo the International News
Service yesterday bv I-ord Robert Cecil,
under-secretary of foreign affairs. Lord
Cecil declared that the German peace
rumors proved the acute financial and w
cial distress now prevailing in Germany.
CONNOLLY EXECUTED.
And Together with Him McDermotI, An
other Irish Rebel.
ThiWin. May 13. Connolly and Mc
Dermott, Iriph rebels, who were saij tJ
be among those who signed the original
proclamation of the Irish republic, were
shot by a firing wjuad at daybreak y.i
terday. This make sixteen rebels who have
been executed sin-e the revolt.
'Connolly was commander-in-chief of
the Irifh republican army, and Mclkr-
mott wis one of the leaders in the rebellion.
GERMANY FEELING WOUNDED.
By the Tone ef the Amencaa Not on
Ssbman&e Iisue.
LmkJob, May 13. What purport t
b a nmmirr f tie speech of Lr. Voa
Betimann Ho)!eg, the German impe
rial c! oo.;.T, at the -ret sittlrsg f jjurdrn
the rTierl committee ttf tho KKt
Mrs. Horton corroborated his testi
mony. ith this testimony came the
close of the plaintiffs case.
Walter A. Dane, opening the case for
the defendant, said that the defendant
would make absolute denial of all te-
timonv judicative of relations of an at
feotinate nature and that the plaintiff
had received many calls from college
students and that her relations with
them had been of an affect ionate na
tine, R'shnp Bliss then took the stand and
testified that Mis-s John-on had called
on him in January. 1 ft 1 .. to seek consol
ation. In the roiire of his testimony
it developed that Miss Johnson had told
him that the defendant had n-er si-kel
her to marry him. He tol l of eeui
her in company with a Mr. .Iiitvll on a
Sunday school picnic and that several
times he had seen the plaintiff ith Ju
bell at a sanatorium where Jul wa
washing windows.
Attorney Willard rw-. examined Dr
iss after whi'h Mr. .lube!! s deposition
and cross examination were read. In
the it developed that Miss .t.hn'-n
!ia l staved at Juh II boue in U inr
ki and rented a room in his rott-ae at
ork Beach in the summer of l!n. In
the deposition Ju?II testified that he
had kiee4 Mi Johnson on different
owasiotig and tHat he had taken her to
the Majestic and t the Van es rr.f
Tn. . ,w,i : a. i . ..... . . i . .. j .. j
. T . I ..... niri tiiiK t' 't.-ni, nan aiitriiutu
,-erreiary wnsing issuec rn- i""""" by Gov. C. W. tiates. Herbeft W: Sarcent
of Hrattleboro, a member of the execu
tive board of the state grange, W. M
Robbins of Brattleboro, O. I Martin of
Plainfield, R. M. Campbell, master of the
Dorset grange, Kdward M. Farr of Ches
ter. gate keeper of the Vermont state
grange; R. F. Spitnenberger and 0. F.
Kent of Bellows Falls, W. A. Graham of
Bellows Kalis and A. C. Halladay. mas
ter of Fall Mountain grange. Mr" Halla
dav is dcr,k of the association.
There are 18.0o grangers in Vermont.
l.ii.OOO in New Kngland, and 112,000 in
New York, and Vermont is centrally lo
cated, so that the association will have a
large field for broadening its membership.
ing statement;
'In view of the apparent conditions
that Germanv has imposed, it is diffi
cult to take any action against Great
Britain until the conditions are re
moved."
AUTO WENT OVER BANK.
Mrs. W. S. Bascom of Fort Edwards, N.
Y, Waa Killed. 1
Glena Falls, K. Y.. May 13,-Mrs. Wy
man S. Bascom of Fort Edward, wife of
the district attorney of Washington
count r, was instantly killed last night
when a car in which she and her husband
and three children were riding went over
an embankment near Schroon lake. Mr.
Bam-om and the children escaped injury.
TALK OF THE TOWN
F-avmoTid lonard of St. Johnsbiirr fa
the guest for a few days at the home of
Mrs. Margaret A. Nelson of Summer
street.
F. E. IVnsmore, who has been ill for
seteral month at the home of Mr. and
Mr. teorg. Col lamer of North Min
street, is reported to be considerably improved.
Fifteen members of the opera titsr for.
of the Barre and Mntpelier branches of
jthe Vermont Tel. ft Tel. t. gave to M)
'.per rrvnr, ion opera xor in .vor.i
peher. a miaeeHanenti brwer at her
inime in Montpelier last evening. l-s
Jerome was enmp-te!y surpnel hit
"on reenvere-J and a very etsjOTaHif
eTenina- was (-ent. The ho t ess waa the
recipient of Birr beautiful ar.1 Befiil
VALUABLE TIMBER THREATENED.
May 5, cecermirg Germspv's reply morcj j at If c'cl--k.
a-i:t from her friend. Mix Jernm u
Court tVn a !y!ir !e4 until Tuesday t bm aarrie to fcf bert link cl
th city.
When Sparks Flew from Burning House
at WinhaU.
Rrattlebnro. Mav 13. Sparks from the
burning house of W. S. Shcpardson at
Wirihall station on the West Rier rail
road, three mile south of Nuth lxn
donderry have been s-arried to woodland
in Jamaica hill and l men and hov
re put' to work fighting the flames
which, fanned hv a pale, are eatmg thoir
war into valuable timiter. The house
caught fire yesterday at It oVl Tk from
inw unknown nn.
A spetial train a rua from South
Indonderrv t rajry a biff for.e of
volunteer fir fjhter am through thetr
effort the !heirlo-i barn and part
of the rontenta of the hrme wer srd
The railroad stati-i nearby was in dan
ger f-T a tins. Mr. Shepardv's lr
oer f rssv.
Th damage t- tS tunber lt w :il
he heay and nWi tk fire eaa b
floppei o.ii is likely tn pf r-n i in
-lv er sa'uah'e ! of tim'ser. Th,
' i! e s'rtW i -rst fre ta WiuIL-
fHinfy h a Zl bur.
the revolver. After looking it over Don- progress this year than has been noted, reer along the thoroughfare. Brovalli
aid got hold of it and, with his two as a rule, in the past, and this marked I spent the night at police headquarters
hands on the trigger, and pointed to- improvement is not peculiar to any one ana tnis morning ne was examine oy
ward Robert, it was discharged. The department of the school. Monumental, City Physician Dr. P. S. Duffy and an-
bullet went through a partition and was scale drawing and detail work, the fruita otner physician, un their advice, the ai
.mWHeit in the vail serosa the hall. I of much earnest effort, are to be noted dermanic charity committee arranged to
The youngster was rushed to the Mary in the numerous specimens submitted place the man in the state hospital ah
Fletcher hospital and later was returned oy ma students, .uanuiacturers nave " . J"' ,","'
mamrestea a aeep interest in we muus- muw vi mo uui,j iviuiiumo onu v.i,,
trial phases of tlie work and while many oers J. S. Murley and Ernest Houston
helpful suggestions have been received accompanied Brovalli to the state institu-
from them, there are rich opportunities. "r """ --uy.
according to members of the faculty, for
further development of the relations be
tween tha manufacturers and the school.
During the year just closed much was
Brattleboro, May 13. The sporting accomplished in the way of mausoleum
coods store of H. M. Wood waa broken drawings and architectural drafting. In
into Thursday night, it was discovered one instance, and cases of the kind in
yesterday morning by means of breaking the year's doing at the school are not
the glass in the door and thrusting a isolated, modellings made by the students
hand through to turn the lock. The w-ere essential in enabling the carver at
thieves ha4 first tried to gain entrance the shed in gaining a truer conception brjd"
by means of the cellar, having broken I of what was expected of him in the cre- ..i
. . ,.. . f i . i -.: r .j a . . i . u -. x . i . . I
THEFT AT BRATTLEBORO.
Sporting Goods Store Broken Into and
Much Loot Was Taken.
It is said that Brovalli did not mani
fest signs of mental aberration until re
cently. He resides at a boarding house
on Batchelder street and when he began
to act strangely, the authorities were
notified. WTiile the polic were looking
for him he mounted the veranda of H. A.
McNeil's house on Ayers street, shattered
a plate glass window with His fist and
broke down a door. Officer Hurley took
charge of him near the South Main street
e a few moments afterward. Bro-
s wife died several years ago. . tt
years.
the cellar door only to nnd tncir anon oi uimcuit ngures in sione. mature, Ka i,iun Uvino- in ! n hit
progress upstairs barred by a door at photographs and ancient art have been w ' regjdent of Barre for the past 13
tne top ot i-ne siairway. i in in uiuuciuug urpi bincui.. iuvu-
The thieves took a dozen or more re- els made in the school have been used,
volvers raneinir in price from $6 to not extensively, but with unvaryingly
$15.50, $ in money from the cash draw- satisfactory results in the Btonesheds.
er, three doren pocket knives, a, dozen I For the casual visitor at the exhibit the
modelling department, perhaps, nas more
NEW CORPORATION.
Ingersoll watches and several safety ra
tors.
CANDY FIRM IN TROUBLE.
Arbuckle Co. of Burlington is Petitioned
Into Bankruptcy.
in store than in tie department where
the work is of a more elementary char
acter. Nevertheless, one cannot inspect
the various department of the school
without learning that Barre 'a evening
drawing school is achieving, and that in
good measure, the purpose which its pro-
SURPRISED THEIR COMRADE.
Burlington, May 13. An involuntarv nioters had in mind when the school was
petition in bankruptcy has been hied established.
with Clerk F. S. Tlatt of Cnited States
district court against the Arbuckle com
pany, one of the oldest and best known
wholesale candy manufacturers in the
state.
The petition was brought by the How
ard National bank, one of the creditors
of the concern, through the bank's attor
ney Max L. Powell. The indebtedness
to the Howard bank is about $11,000.
The factorv has been attached by
Deputy Sheriff Todd. George F. Scully
is managing the business, under
Todd.
A Real Estate Company at Windsor Files
Articles.
Articles of association were filed at tho
secretary of state's office to-day by tho
Sivad Construction company, Inc., which
is formed to deal in and develop real
estate. The headquarters is at Windsor,
and the capital stock is $2,.VH). divided
into 100 shares. The subscribers ar
Gilbert F. Davis, Louis Bianchi and W. J.
Faxie.
V"
WOMAN HEAVILY FINED
Following Raid at a Hotel in Middlehury
She Appeals.
Middleburv, Mav 13. Mrs. John Burne
of the Logan house, cliarged with keeping
liquor with intent to sell, was yesterday
fined $400 and costs. The jurv was out
Ix linutes. An appeal was taken and
bail was fixed at $400. The officers who
made the raid identified a pitcher alleged
to have contained liquor, and witnesses
testified to purchasing liquor at the hotel
Mrs. Burne a n wm held in the sum of
7o0 to appear in court next Tuesdav.
witnesses having testified that he had
sold them liquor.
Civil War Veterans Visited Jarvis C.
Harris on His 75th Birthday.
Grand Army veterans, members of R.
B. Crandall post, joined last evening in
tendering a surprise party to Jarvis C.
Harris at his home, 183 South Main
street, the occasion being Mr. Harris
75th birthday anniversary. The guests
of honor having been persuaded to vi.it
his son. A. D. Harris, in Montpelier, he
was taken wholly ahack when he re
turned home to see the premises garri
soned by a detail of his comrades. His
daughter. Mrs. B. H. Griffith, had made
preparations for the reception of the
visitors. The dining' room was attrac
tively decorated with flags and bunting,
a portrait of Abraham Lincoln adding
to the patriotic atmosphere created by
the display of the colors.
Death of a Former Barre Man.
A letter received in Barre yesterday
brings information of the death of Wil
liam Harmon, a former resident of Barre,
which occurred in Aberdeen, Scotland, re
cently. Mr. Harmon was employed as
granite cutter in this city until eight
years ago, when he returned to Scotia ml.
The letter states that Mr. Harmon died
suddenly. He teaves his wife and broth
ers and sisters in Scotland.
TALK OF THE TOWN-
George H. Roben oi South Ryegal
was in the city to day looking after
his real estate interests here.
W. E. Lappin of Wehsterville ha re
turned from a several months' tay in
Michigan, where he has been at a hcaltli
LUNGM0T0R SAVED INFANT.
Child Was Asphyxiated at Birth, But
Was Saved by Prompt Measures.
St. Albans. May 13. The lungmotor
recently purchased by R. H. Me brney
ad its first trial at the Sherwood sana-
anum yesterday after the birtii of an
nfant son to Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Hur
ler tf Hyde street. The rhiid was as
phyxiated at Iwrlh and failed to respond
to 'all the ordinarv method of resu.-i-
ation. but it responded the hingmo-
n four minutes. I be bahv i a line
Daintv favors, each inscribed with the resort.
menu, and each adorned by an Ameri- The following Plainfield people wer
can flag in iniature, were" laid at the visitors in town yesterday: Mrs. Bella
dinner covers. A substantial dinner was Covell and two children H. J. (iale an t
followed by informal speechmaking and son, Ross Gale, Miss Ruth St. Cyr and
reminiscences. Mr. Harris, an adjutant Ralph St. Cyr.
of Cranndall post, was called upon for a Dennis fatiton of Florence, Mass.. ar
responae and otiers who spoke briefly ried in this city to-day. having Iwcu
were S. ,T. Shufelt. B. P. Wilier and E. L. iallcd by the serious illness of his broth
Smith. Regrets were expressed because ori ,: (ntou Another brother. Sa-
some of the veterans invited to the an-7ajre Canton of Montreal, is e.xpeefed tn
niversary were prevented from joining
in the get together. One of the pleasing
features of the informal program came
when Comrade Harris read an appropri
ate poem, written for the exi-asion by
his daiichter. Mr. W. T. Campbell. An
acrostic forming the words. "Cranda!!
Posf was rfiK-o'red in the clrerly ar
ranged ere.
Mr. Harris has been a resident of Barre
for manv year and is held in high es
teem bv a wide riri-le of a-qua intaneea.
As a voung man he enlisted at Waita-
rxJthv hoy weigh. ng about nme pound. hMd as one of ihe M.iretown volunteers
lungnjot'-r undoubtedly sael
rh
life.
SUMMER PASTOR.
its! in H eompanv ot the Vermont regt
rrrnt. He was a three-year man and
one of fe enmpuratnelr few- urviin
irtemhers of his regiment was a happy
giie-t last ripht in the person of K. I
Weste. A. Cate to Hare Chari at East ,s'tb. Mr. Harr.a father l wi Har
. ... . (ris. a retersn ff the war of 112. was one
a-i North Montpeher. !, t r.t ,tU-r ot Moreto. t orn-
teton A. tale of the lant Th-- lr4e Harris bad two brothers who were
Vcvl s4mmI at St. lwreiH-e umters:tr. !k?!ef! in the war between the sUt-s. one
t arjtn. V V- bas beew eraffej mm-m mi-miter of t' e 21 ermont rejimint.
mrr st'-r .-f the I nnera'-t har:h'i r-I t- o-her, of the 1MH Vassachu-
at last ati North Moatrl.r. setts regjnsrit.
arrive to-morrow.
Supt. Frank O. le of the water de
partment and Alderman J. A. Hea'y,
chairman jl the aldernianie water com
mittee, left the city las-t night for Bos
ton, where they are to ron'er with en
gineers who. representing the New Enz
Und Insurani-e Kxehange. reiently invr.
tigited Barre's water and fire proto ti u
tenis.
At an adjourned mcetms of the etrr
of the tlmr. h of the i;..o.i Shepherd las
eiening the following o'fieers were ele-t-ed
for the vcar: .loni"T warden. I- T.
RiVkert: se.retjiry, N. J. Roberts: treas
urer. Mis 1'eneore t.a'l; as't"t tTras
uier. Mra. Walla. -e V,. tiilbert. The re
tor reapjted John Kob'fi as senior
warden. When H. K. Bush, who has
served as -ecrei-ary of the tetry f-r
niativ yesrs. aked to tie reheted f t'
duties, Mr. Roberts was elected
iii.-rriir. The l.iloing deiegafei r
the dio-esaa tr.nvent vm in Mtr,,er
nett n'nth were flerte.): f, t.. H'w tsni,
J..hn K-.K.n. ! K. lit kert. W. C. f. !be-
ani H. fc. Paih.
