."-f^ViTSV *v>HI"?V
? '4'Y<r
?
Bringing Up Father
Never Loses lis Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
STitucS ?
The Famous Briggs
See His Inimitable Cartoons on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
16th YEAR
VOLUME) ??
NUMBKR TM
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 1916. ? EIGHT PAGES.
PAHMH*"1 ? FAIR
. PRICE, TWO CENTS.
ON FRONT OF MILE
['hey Drive Teutons From
Their Trenches to Depth
of 400 Yards.
OWN OF MARIAWPOL
NOW IN HANDS OF RUSSIANS
I'ctrograd Reports Further Vic
tories for Its Troops in
Galicia.
KKNCII PROGRESS AT VERDUN
jlnko Gains Near Floury and Hold
Enemy on Remainder of
lilnc.
I .ON I " *N. A ug list 13.?Hard fighting j
i the Somme region of France. In
linlh'ia and in Ihc Italian theater, with i
further sains for the entente allies j
I't all thr^e regions. marked the opera- j
ions of Saturday night and Sunday. j
Northwest of Pozieros. north of the i
'omme. the British made an advance of |
ront 300 to too yards over a front ofj
iearly a mile against the Ornians snd i
lxr> i-aptured trenches on the plateau
lorthwest of Bazcntin-le-Petit. while
lie French southeast of Maurepas
;alned a further foothold on the slopes
.f hill 109
Between Thiepval and the Somme on
Saturday night, according to Berlin,
issuults hy th?? entente allies broke
lown with heavy casualties to the at
ckern The fighting near Ham and
?laurepas continued throughout the
?ntlre night and Into Sunday, the men
repeatedly coming to grips In hand
? ?hand encounters.
Marlanipol. in Galtcla, seven miles
i>utlieast of Hajicz, the town of Pod
;ia?-v and several villages along the
ippor Sereth River have fallen Into
lie hands of the Russians All alone
his front, even In the Carpathians,
'??troprad reports that the Russians
ire continuing their advance against;
ihe Aust ro-German forces.
lis?IA\S Til llO W V IIA IK
*T SKVKIt A I. HUNTS
?>n the Bystrlt/.a aector and near
\lotiHKterzyska, however. Merlin says
lie Russians have been thrown hack
it several plaices by the counterattacks
>t the Teutonic allies.
The Puke of Aosta is keeping up
lis strong offensive against the Aus
rians in the Ii^onzo region, having
Iriven them frotn fortified positions In
he Monfalcone and Gorizia sector:)
ind taken prisoner more than ".000 ad
lltlonal men.
Constantinople reports that the
rurka east of the Suez Canal have
turned against the Rrittsh and com
pelled them to retreat with heavy
iosres. The London War office, how
ever. disputes this statement, assert
ing that the British cavalry is still
in pursuit of the Turkish rear guard. >
w4i|rh on Saturday overling had been
d^ven hack to a position east of Rir.-- j
el^Manca.
After a Iouk period of Inactivity, the i
Prltlsh along th& Euphrates in Meso
potamia attempted an advance against
the Turks, but retreated after two
hours' fighting
Further advances l.\ the Turks
iipainst the Russians on the Persian
front and In Turkish Armenia also are
'aimed by Constantinople.
I M PORTA NT \ I)VA NCF.
XrOHKI) ON SOMMK
LONDON. August 13.?An important
advance on the Somme front north
west of Tozieres was announced to
day hy the War Ofllce. The British
pushed forward their lines S00 or <00
yards over a front of nearly a mile.
The afternoon seport from headquar
ters in Fronce says:
"On the plateau northwest of Bazen
tin-le-Petlt we gained groiend toward
Martinpulch and captured some enemy
trenches. Northwest of Pozieres we
also made a further Important advance
of 300 or 400 yards on a front of nearly
a mile. Our losses wore slight, in spite
of the heavy artillery.
"Last night we made three success
ful raids on the enemy trenches, the
first southwest of La Folle farm, on the
V|m.v ridge; the second opposite Ca
lontie. and the third east of Armen
tleres. We Inflictcd many casualties
on the enemy, capturing a machine
j?un and prisoners. The enemy at
tempted a raid nenr the Hohenzollcrn
redoubt, which was repulsed with
heavy loss by our Infantry. Several
Bavarian prisoners were captured.
"The enemy exploded a tnlne onat of
Cabaret Rouge, but we occupied the
tip of the crater. We fired three miles
north of Neuve Chapelle and also
south of the quarries northwest of
llullurh. The enemy made no attempt
to occupy the craters."
TOW V OF MARIAMPOI.
CAPTUIIKD IIV RUSSIANS
I'KTROGRAD (via London), August
13..-The Bueslan forces In Galicia have
captured the town of Marlampol, seven
miles southeast of Hallcz, and farther
north the town of Podgiacy, according
to the Russian official communication
issued this evening.
FMF.NCII coxsomdatk
CAPTUIIKD POSITIONS
p.\ |: IS. Atigttst 13.?The French
have, made further progress southwest
of Matirepas, In the Sotntne sector,
according to an official announcement
Issued by the War OfTIco to-night. A
violent artillery duel is proceeding in
the Barleux-Chaulnes sector.
On the Verdun sector, a German at
taojc south of Avocourt wood was re
pulsed. The statement says:
"North of the Somme the night was
calm. O""" troops consolidated thl^r
positions on the conquered ground. A
fjcrman attaok from the direction of
(Continued on Second "Page.^
Three Artillerymen
Are Drowned in Surf
W1LMI.VUTOX, !%'. C., Auguat
Three mrmb?ri of the North Caro
lina Coast Artillery reserve*, In
nnnual encampment at Kort Can
well, near here, lout their live* to
day while hathloic In the aurf at the
fort. The dead arei First SernreHiit
Wllllnm Ardrey and I.nnee (.'nriiornl
Leonard Mwalm, of the Charlotte
eompany, and Kred White, of the
yiallahury company. It In ntated
ponltlvely that Hwalin and White
were droerned. Ardrey In believed
to have died of heart failure. It ta
? aid that Ardrey and S it n I in lout
their liven In elTortn to rrivue White.
ttIio cried for help when he fonnd
hlmnelf helnu carried out by the
tide.
CITIZENS ASSEMBLING
. FOR TRAINING CRUISE
On Tuesday These 2,300 Amateur
Sailors Will Leave From At
lantic Coast Ports.
NINE BATTLESHIPS TO RE USED
Recruits Will Have Actual Training
at Sea Resigned to Qualify Them
for Emergency?Rigid Routine of
Rally Duties.
WASH INGTON. August 13.?l.eavlng
ofHcee. Bliops and factories for nearly
a month at sea. 2.300 citizen-sailors are
assembling for the first naval training1
cruise of civilians ever held by the
American navy. Next Tuesday they
will sail from various Atlantic coast
ports on nine battleships to receive
actual sea training until the training
trip known as the "John T'aul Jones
cruise" ends, on September 12.
The cruise of instruction Is designed
to qualify civilians for naval service in
time of emergency. Just as the camps
at Plattsburg and elsewhere train
civilians for army service.
MEN OK PIIOMINKNCK
KNROM.KP FOR CltLlSE
Those enrolled for the training
cruise Include men prominent in va
rious wnlks of life In all Important
? ?itles of the Kast, Middle West and
South. Secretary McAdoo, of the
Treasury, and Assistant Secretary
Roosevelt, of the Navy, arc amnne
those who will receive the same treat
ment and training as college and high
school youths and others less promi
nent. A rjKid routine of daily duty,
beginning before sunrise, has been
arranged.
To-morrow the first of the citizen
sailors will ?i> aboard ship at Port
land. Me.: Newport. R. I. and Haiti
more. On Tuesday others will be taken
on at Roston, New York, Philadelphia.
Norfolk and Charleston, S. C. Those j
from New Haven, Albany. N. Y.; Brook- !
lyn, Newark, Scranton and Buffalo will
hoard the battleships Maine. New Jcr- I
sey and Kentucky at New York.
The battleship Rhode Island will re
ceive the recruits at Philadelphia from
that city. Pittsburgh, Cleveland and
Detroit. At Norfolk recruits from that
city. Richmond. Cincinnati. Indian- I
apolis, Chicago. Minneapolis. Milwau
kee. Res Moines, St. I.ouis. Omaha,
Kansas City, Dallas and Washington
will board the battleships Illinois and
Louisiana. The battleship Alabama j
will take on the recruits from Charles-1
ton. New Orleans and Houston, Tex.,
at Charleston. The battleships Kear
sarge and Virginia will carry the re
cruits from Portland, Roston, Wor
cester, Newport and Providence.
The totaJ cost to each recruit i3 $30.
all paying their own railroad fares to
points of embarkation.
SQCADHOV \MLI< MOBILIZE
AT UAHDIMER'S BAY
The nine battleships of the squadron, ;
which will be commanded by Rear
Admiral Helm, will mobilize at Gardl-!
nier's Bay. near New London, Conn. The
Rhode Island will be the flagship. After
two or three days at Gardinler's Bay. the|
squadron will join the Atlantic Fleet.'
and. as a tactical unit of Admiral j
Mayo's command, will participate In a,
naval war game.
After these maneuvers the citizen
sailors will he taken to Tangier Sound,]
in Chesapeake Bay. for gunnery, small \
boat and other drills. During the last
week of the cruise the ships will re
turn to the naval districts from which
they sailed and co-operate with the
mobilization and drill of motor-boats
entered for the motor-boat cruise.
DID DUTY, SAYS ROCKEFELLER!
Mnken Comment on Sermon to Which j
He llnd .lant Listened
Attentively.
!
CLEVELAND, OJllO, August 13.?
John D. Rockefeller listened to a sor-1
mon to-day on "Why Men Kail." The j
preacher, Rev. Johnston Myers, D. D.,
said Moses was offered riches, but con
cluded he would come closer to God
by following a more difficult road, and
by so doing eventually achieved suc
cess.
"I have been confronted several times
in my career with a similar situation,"
Mr. Rockefeller said, after the service.
"My decision has been based on what
I thought was my duty. I think I
have done right."
WILL CONFER AT TURIN
Ilor.elll and Hiinclmuu Kipected to Con-J
elude find Sljcn Anglo-ltnltnn
Agreement.
ROME, August 13.? Premier BozelU
and Walter Runelman will confer at
Turin on Tuesday. Great Importance Is
attached to the meeting. The Anglo
Italian economic agreement Is expected
to he ratified.
I.AjST MOUNTAIN KXCl'KSIOK.
Via Norfolk and Western Railway.
will leave Byrd Street Stntlon to-rporrnw
mornlnfr promptly ?t 10:30. Vorv t.est
equipment. Go with the crowd. ' Phono
Madlaon 487 for further particular*.
Gunfire Keeps Up, and Every
Day Some Strong Point
Is* Taken.
GERMAN CASUALTIES LARGE
Villages This Side of Bapaumc
Filled With Debris of De
molished Houses.
?v pai.mkii.
AT TUB BUITl.VII FRONT. August
12 (dispatched t 11*:50 o'clock, August
13).?Any one who might tliink from
reading the brief official reports that
the British offensive were over if he
went out to the field, won 1<1 conclude,
judging from th'' uni'pasitiK enormous
volume of gunfire, that the terrific
battle was In progress. No one the
correspondent meets at the front
thinks that the offensive is over, or
that anything but winter will stop it
Though no village or considerable
frontage of trenches was stormed in
the last few days, every day found
some strong point taken and some new
spur trench thrown out in the course
'if the same kind of an operation which
follower! and preceded each bis; blow.
"The question thjs week." said a
| staff officer, "i.'i whether our puns have
killed more Germans than their giins
I have killed r,f tip. and we know that
? the odds in onr favor arc at least two,
if not three, to one."
For six weeks now the British have
maintained a torrent of shell nre. which
German prisoners who have been at
Verdun say surpasses anvthine they
endured there, while, at the different
munition depots, the pibs of shells
seem rs plentiful as on the day bo.
fore the grand offensive began.
It has been a week all to the ?Un
j ners- taste. Thev have had such an
j advantage of position over the (Ger
mans as they never had before, thanks
' to the possession of Pozieres ridge,
which is: crowned by a windmill at its
highest point, it?= wooden structure
being long rlnrr blown to splinters by
; shell nre. and Its stone base cracked
I Into bits. It Is incalculable and in<"on
1 celvabie the amount of shell tire spent
on this mitre. Its irregular skyline
, is ever chancing as one shell chasm
in the pnmtneled eartli is filled and
another is iriade. The British still keep
domination by tactics and methods of
fortification not permitted to i.e made
here.
ut:n.MA\ cut \TKn.trr.\( k
OMSt It I MK.II AS CO.MIC
The Australians describe the latest
German counterattack. which was
made last night, as comic, if the re
: suit had not been so tragic for the
i two battalions which made it. Ap
: parentiy the Germans- were mostly re
cruits. When assembling for the at
tack they were caught by the howitzer
lire. Then they chargcd across an ;
open space. ?.? 1 .?? caught bv both the
British sun and machinc-mni fire.
Some forty survivors who got to the
trenches held up their hands. The
Australian? called on them to come in.
The British guns are situated behind
j the conquered slopes of the ridge,
while from the crest the British are
,ihl? t'i see .,)) the way to Bapaume
Thus exposed, the German puns gradu
ally have be,.n retirinc. for once the
I British locate a German battery, they
i r^o a tot j, with a concentration Jire
: like a park ot hounds after a cornered
fox. The British are hammering
every village on the way to Bapaume
and Bapaume itself, while at the same
time their superior numbers of plane*
continue dropping bombs on the same
targets that the artillery bombard?
Wherever the Germans arc quar- j
tered thev are subjected night and day
to this nerve-wrecking bombardment. '
The British artillery commander has'
only to say "Put twenty rounds of'
eight-inch into Courcellette" or "a cou- |
Pie of salvos of twelve-inch into Thiep-|
val." or "We might as well stop that!
working party digging in Martlnpuich |
for the afternoon." and away go the!
messengers, roaring like railroad trains
through the air with their tons of j
explosives
"We don't make many changes in j
the map this way," said a gunner, "but,'
as a matter of bookkeeping in casual
ties, the balance is all in our favor. It
softens things up for our infantry be
fore they attack. It is as demoralizing
as a continuous nightmare, and explains
why the Germans can put no more
spirit into their counterattacks."
As some illustration of the power of
artillery when shells are ample and
guns numerous, it is estimated that in
this last week the Germans in the
Spmme battle area have had 15,000
casualties from mortar tire ai<d gun
fire alone.
After three days of cooler weather,
another heat wave has come. For four
weeks there has been no rain except a
slight shower. The ground Is parch,
by drought, and leaves are beginning
to fall from the trees in some places.
One result of the widespread shell
tire over a great depth of the German
front, whether twelve-inch shells into
distant villages or eighleen-pounders
into the front - line and support
trenches, is to prevent the Germans
bringing up water as well as food.
The thirsty men at the front are penned
up in trenches in the burning hot
earth in this fierce August weather.
.Most of the villages this side of Ba
paume are filled up with the debris of
houses which the British shell lire has
battered down. The thing most notice
able to an American is how little ice
is supplied either by the British or
French armies, where it is found only
in hospitals. The common use is
habitual to neither people. Yot there
Is surprisingly little heatstroke. It is
significant of the value of inoculation
for typhoid that, despite the heat and
ha I tie conditions, where burying the
dead and sanitation are hard to control,
at the last report there were only
seventeen cases in the Immense Brit
ish army In France.
i Encouraging Decrease
in Cases of Paralysis
\k\v voitK, Aukii.hi i:t rn_
roiwaglng mill nltOKdhrr urlromr
drop I" Hie iiumlier ?.r Infantile ,??
rnlj?|s cmmcm nml death* *thn re
corded I,, the 11 ca 1i1. lirpHr?nrn(
to-day. Tlic mini!><? r of nerr case*
In the is renter .It, ivni in airaliiat
MI7 on Siitnrilai?,, drereane of
Iwrnlj-nlv. The number or death*
%vhn fewer Uy lnfr.l,_n drop from
forty-two on Saturday to twenty,
two to-day. TIiIm di'i'rrimr nll'rclrd
every borough except Hie llron.v,
wlie re tliere were tn<-nt.v.?nr new
i'Iinom?four more than Saturday. Dr.
Kmernon, lienltli eoitimlNnlmier. *vnn
?ontli to look upon the dccreiiKc iih
a aign of permanent wane of the
?IfneiiMe. lie declared l.e hud hopen
that the tide wiim beginning to elili.
hut Hint he eouldn't conHcleu Hourly
predlet n Mtenily fall.
UNEXPECTED TURNS
i IN SEVENTfl DISTRICT
Senator Downing Makes and With
draws Announcement of Can
didacy for Hay Vacancy.
WILD MAKE STATEMENT TO-DAY
Efforts Made to Form Karly-Weuver
Downing Coalition in Order to Pre
sent, United Front AgainM Judgo
Thomas \V. Harrison.
Seventh District politics took a scries
of sudden and unexpected turns yes
terday. First came an authoritative
announcement that .State .Senator
Henry 11. Downing, of Front Royal,
would bo a candidate for the House
of Representatives to succeed .lames
Hay, and that ail factions not aligned 1
with Judge Thomas U*. Harrison, of J
Winchester, would unite in throwing i
their support to him. Telegrams re-j
ceived early this morning, however, i
indicated that tliero is .still some doubt j
of the coalition being made effective, j
and the definite announcement niado i
earlier in the night was recalled pend- \
nig the result of further conferences i
to-day.
.-??nator Downing is expected to
make a formal announcement of his I
position to-day at Charlottesville, i
where ho will hold a conference with j
I- loyd \\. Weaver, of f.uray, and State
senator X. H. Karly, Jr., of tlreene,
? both of whom have for some timo been ;
| recognised aspirants for the Hay va- j
cancy.
1 he sigriilK-nncc of the conference
? le.s hi the fact that it indicates '
the possibility of a coalition be- i
i ween the Downing-Karly- Weaver
forces to present a united front !
against Judge Harrison. Acording to
an understanding said to have been I
reached after several conferences held'
in l.uray and Harrisonburg on Friday)
and Saturday. Mr. Weaver, who has1
been one (,f t!te active candi
fl.Mo.s, will with.haw from the race
and urcc his followers to support
Downing for the full two-vear term1
beginning March 4. ir-17. and to sup- \
port State Senator Karly for the un-!
expired term.
urriinu\\\ \r, ok u i:\vi.u
I* STAHTUMi I?i:\ KM) I'll KNT
I'util this new turn of affairs I ante
known, it had been generally accepted ,
thai Mr. Weaver would he the opposi-j
Hon candidate to Judge Harrison for
the new term. This was the situation'
as late as Saturday. On that day Mr.
Weaver told Senator Downing in l.uray
that he would withdraw in his favor
if he would enter the race, i'ressure
was brought to bear on Senator I
Downing in Harrisonburg to under
take the campaign, and following a.
series of conferences there Saturday,
his acriuiesencc to the new plan was i
obtained.
These developments give the Seventh
District situation a complexion which, :
while not unanticipated by the liar- !
rison forces, will give them grave con- i
corn. With the primary little more
than two weeks away, the district will'
see a fortnight of campaigning: which I
will be the most vigorous in a genera- '
Hon and probably the most exciting i
since readjustcr days.
Valley and mountain sections will
figure in the factional alignments, as
will also the "wet" and "dry" issuos.
In addition to the congressional fight
there is being waged side by side with
it a collateral Judgeship fight grow
ing directly o?t nf Judge Harrison's
candidacy.
JinCK HA It It ISO \ I.A t'M'lIKS
VK.'OltOI S t' \ >1 |?Ait; Y
^ When Mr. I lay's appointment to the
United States Court of Claims was first
announced, it was stated, on behalf
of Judge Harrison by his friends, that
while he would accept (lie nomination
if it were offered him he would make
no active campaign. This policy of
austere dignity was ouickly abandon
ed. The past week has seen the inser
lion of signed advertisements in be
half of Judge Harrison's candidacy in
all of |he papers of the Seventh Dis
trict. and he has held numerous con
ferences with political leaders in
every county and city of iho district.
liichmond friends of Judge Harrison
agree that while the situation is not
without Its disquieting features, their
candidate will be able to win over the
united opposition of the Karly-Weaver
Downing forces. He has the support of
State Senator Harry F. Hyrd. son of the
former Speaker of the House of Dele
gates, and has the further advantage
of being generally well-known
throughout most of the district, the
Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, over which
lie has presided for a number of years
lying wholly within If.
The primary will be held on Septem
ber 2. Under the ruling ndoptcd by
the district committee, all aspirants
must file notice of candidacy by next
Saturday, together with a chock for
their proportionate share, of the ex
pense of holding the primary.
FLOOD RELEASED
j Waters of Lake Toxaway Now
Rushing Down Upon South
Carolina Towns.
DANGER WARNINGS GIVEN
Crumbling of Dam Believed Due
to Natural Spring at
Base.
ASI1KVILLK. N. C.. August 13.?The
great dam at Lake Toxaway, fifty feet
high, 10ft feet in width and holding
back waters that covered 550 acres of
land in the Toxaway region, thirty
eight miles from this city, crumbled
and went out with a roar at 7:10 to
niglit, and at 11 o'clock to-night the
waters thus released were racing to
ward South Carolina cities in their
path, including Walhalla, Anderson.
Pickens and Seneca. Warning of flood
danger were sent to all South Carolina
points by the Associated Press at this
city at 7:30 o'clock.
According to long-distance messages
from Toxaway. the entire dam, built
of ?"irth and stone, seemed to melt be
f?>- the rush of waters within a few
n>:mtes. Tlje( initial opening In the
dam, caused.lt is believed, by the seep
ing of a natural spring at the base, was
j not larger than a railway coach.
I DAM IS III II/T IX 1002
AT COST OF 93S.OOO j
The dam. which was built in 190'J. j
a#t a cist of $38,000, was built at a !
point where the hills are not more
[ than 400 feet apart. Over this dam
the waters of Lake Toxaway River
flow down a narrow and densely wood
ed gorge for a distance of sixteen miles
of comparatively uninhabited country |
before it empties into the Chuga River I
and strikes the first town in its path j
in South Carolina, 350 feet below the '
Toxaway section. There have been no :
unusual rains in the lake section for !
i several days, but it Is believed that the
J dam was weakened by the heavy rains
i which flooded Western North Carolina
during the week of July 16. This is
the third and larjrest of the lakes in
the mountains of Western North f'aro
i Una which have gone out since the
I July storms.
The Toxaway country is knmvn as
"the beautiful sapphire section" in
tourist circles. The lake and the hotel,
named after the section, were built
in 1P02 by a party of Pittsburgh capi
talists. The company originally own
ed 31,000 acres of land In the Toxaway
country, the purchase being made
with a view to mining operations. A
few years ago, cotton mill owners,
whoso plants were in the path of the
waters, should they escape, employed
several expert engineers to investigate
the safety of the dam. with the idea
of securing legislative relief, should it,
be determined that their properties!
were endangered. Following the en
gineers report the dam was strength
ened materially, large plies of rock be
ing unloaded at its base.
FKAKS roil DAM'S SAKI0TV
111 "'*<? itKcis.vr flood
lour weeks ago. during the flood
period, fears for the safety ..f the
Toxaway dam were repeatedly express
ed. and there were several reports that
the dam had gone out.
At 11 o'clock to-night a telephone
message from Lake Toxaway stated
that the lake was being rapldiv drain
ed. it was believed that the flood ,
waters would roach Walhalla and An
derson. s. <\. about midnight.
't Is believed that the waters will
cover a wide expanse of uninhabited
Carolina' fboforc reaching the South
1 .!?. townn- minimizing the
possibility of extensive damage.
mi en n.\mac;k tiihratfxf.d
M'O.NO KROWKIi! IIIV Kit
I'RKKNVTL.L.E.^ S. C., August 13.?At
midnight the Sonera River, through
*?"" Of '.ake Toxiiwmv
*'11 now i?to the Savannah River
wore normal near the town of Senaca!
t rirty-eight miles west of Greenville
and about forty miles southwest of
I ox away. The waters threaten to do
serious damage to crops along the
Keowec River, in Pickens and Oconee i
Counties, which are separated bv this'
river. Above Olemson College the!
keowee and the Twelve-Mile Creek!
have confluence, forming the Seneca,
and thence pass by Clemson. where it
is feared much damage will be done,
as the country is relatively flat ami
thickly populated. Portman Shoals,
where the light and power for the city
of Anderson Is generated, is on the'
Seneca River, and to-night large forces
are at work preparing for the Hood j
waters. Sand bags are being placed !
on the dam and power-house, and other '
preparations are tinder way to combat!
the force of the flood.
Walhalla, Seneca and Anderson are'
several miles from the river. There is j
no town of importance on the course
of the stream.
A long-distance telephone message j
from a point within six miles of the'
Xoith Carolina line, on the Keowee i
River, stated that at midnight there
had been no rise in the water. In
habitants of the river valley have all
hcen warned and are awake, the inos
Rago stated. The poop!-; in ?hn> section
do not anticipate much damage
SIOY FX-FOOT WALL OF WATKIt
IS MOVING IJOWX VALI.RV
ANDERSON, K. August 13.?A wall,
of water sevon foet high Is moving!
down the Seneca River Valley to-ninht j
as a result of the breaking of the Tox- !
away dam. according to reports reach- j
lug here. Much damage to low-lying '
sections of the valley is feared, and |
ollicials of the Southern Public Utlli- j
ties company have sent a large, fouce of
men to Portman Shoals, on the Seneca
River, to try to savo their big power
dam there.
Warnings havo been telegraphed to
night to all sections of the Seneca and
upper Savannah IUver Valleys.
V. ii O. MOtNTAItt EXCURSION
AUKUII 17 to Charlottesville, Staunton.
V. Idle Sulpl-.ur, Rot Springs nod nil Moun
tain Resorts. Pound trip fares. 12 Li) to
*i.00. .Natural Bridge, $4.50.
Wife Bids for Services
of Convict Husband
<;itKKVM10K0. N. r.. AiiKu?< IK
I'ortuer Chief of I'ollcr .1. \V. .Slaugh
ter. of l)r*|irr, N. I'.. Into ln*t nlicht
ttiiw convlctcd of mnnnlniiKhtrr by n
Jury in Suprrlor Court nt \Vrn<
? ortli unci MrnIivurril to ? rro jonrV
linprUoniiirnt nml to pay n line of
9 tot) for thr killing; nt Drnper nirv
rrnl niontliN ago of n ?hltr mnn,
Tlionmn Wriivrr. At thr llmr of the
kllliriK slaughter mm rlilrf of po
ller. Thr Unr of J4IMI the Jury rr -
nulrrn to he pnlil to thr viIiIott of
\\ enver. Thr Jurj permitM thr hir
ing out of Slaughter (lurlnK thr Ivro
yenra* sentence, ftml thr rrlfe of tlir
convicted mnn lias put In ? hid for
li In ?rn lorn.
til RECORDS BROKEN
FOR APPROPRIATIONS
Previous High Figures for Congress
Will He Kxreeded l?.v at Least.
Half Million Dollars.
TOTAL AHOI T 81,700.0110,000 ,
Passage of Ship-Purchase liili and
House .Approval of Senate's Naval
Program Kxpected This Week.
Caucus on Revenue Measure.
WASHINGTON*, August 13.?Tho im
portance of the J200.000.000 revenue
hill, on which Senate Democrats to
day devoted many hours of delibera
tion in caucus, is being impressed
upon leaders by the fact that ap
propriations of the session ncaring
completion have broken all records.
With the passage this week of the
$50,000,000 ship-purchase bill, and
probable approval by the House of the
Senate's gigantic naval Mil. the ap
propriations of the Si.vty-fourth Con
gress will have exceeded all previous
records by at least $500,000,000. While
exact figures cannot be computed until
the close of the session, the aggregate
appropriation by Congress for all pur
poses probably will approximate $1,
700.000,000. as against $1,1 14,000,000 for
the Sixty-third Congress.
Mom-; than 90ft.04Kt.0nu
KOll SPKCIAI. rritrOSKK
Resides regular supply bills, which
total, as they now stand. $1,337,206,380,
Congress will have added when the
shipping bill is approved more than
$00,000,000 for special purposes. There
also have been contract authorizations
amounting to about *207.000,000. all of
which would bring the grand aggre
gate to $1,685,000,000. with the uncer
tain general deficiency appropriation
bill, si 111 In the making, to be added
at the end of tho session.
Special appropriations include $20,
000.ooo for a government nitrate plant.
$ fi.000,000 for good roads, $1.1,1100,000
for rural credits, and $.">n. 100,000 for
the government shipping project.
General supply bills that enter Into tho
session's total are as follows:
Post -oflice. $322,206,570; navy, yet to'
be approved. $315,826,843: army, $267.
007.000; pensions. $ 1 .">$,0150.000; sundry
civil, $ 12S.306.-f-IT.; r.vors and harbors, i
$42,886,085; legislative, executive and i
judicial. $37,025,t>0'*: army and navy
and other urgent deficiencies, $31,012.-'
075; agriculture, Si'7.000,000; fnrtitlca- '
tions. $25.7 18.050; district of Columbia,;
yet to be approved, about $13,000,000:1
Indian affairs. $1 (>.007.m i; diplomatic
and consular, $5,355,006, and military
academy, $1.225,043.
ACTION OX XAVAI. Mil.I.
r.M'UfTMl) TINS WRBK
I'inal action on Die long-disputed
naval bill is expectcd before tho week
ends. On Tuesday the conference ro
port will he called up in the House.
Representative Padgett, chairman of
tho Naval Affairs Committee, will move
that the lloiisu agree to tho Senate
amendments, and separate roll calls
will be taken on each of ihe disputed
sections.
With President Wilson and a ma
jority of the party leaders urgently I
supporting the Senate's naval building
and personnel increases, it is believed j
the House will agree to them after j
advocates of a small navy have made
their last IIkIU. If leaders' predictions
are Justified, the Senate will quickly!
adopt the conference report, so that the!
last of the defense measures may he i
ready for President Wilson's approval;
by Saturday. Appropriations for pre
paredness will aggregate approximately!
$ii40,000,000 if there is no reduction In!
the naval program.
While the House is bringing defense
legislation to a close, the Senate will
pass the ship bill, workmen's compensa- {
Hon bill and conference reports, pre
paratory for the revenue bill, on which '
a stubborn political assault will be*
waned by the Republicans. When the ;
amended revenue bill gets through !
conference, it is expected Congress will
be ready to adjourn. Headers of both;
parties are hoping adjournment will i
come by September 1. although Senate j
republicans intend to make one more
attempt to force consideration of the
Immigration bill. l.'nless Democrats!
change their minds, this attempt will
fall. ? j
IIK.M OCIIAT.S KOI,I) STOIt.MY
I IVU-llOl It OKIIATK
WASHINGTON, August 13.?A cor
poration stock license tax to raise ap
proximately $20,000,000, elimination of
most of the objectionable stamp taxes,
with an amendment of the proposed
net profit lax on munition manufac
tures, were determined upon by tho
Democratic Senate caucus to-night af
ter a stormy five-hour dobate on the
revenue bill.
Southern and Western Senators made
a bitter assault on the Finance Com
mittoe amendment which proposed a
10 per cent tax on the not profits of
manufacturers of materials used as
materials of war. It was Insisted that
it would result in a heavy tax on cot
ton and copper entering Into, such
manufacture.
GENERAL STRIKE
CAN BE AVERTED
ONLY BY WILSON
Managers of Railways and
Union Leaders Summoned
to White House.
CONFERENCE TO BE HELD
AT EARLY HOUR TO-DAY
Final Break Comes When Offer
of Arbitration Is Refused
by Brotherhoods.
KACH SIDK RLAMKS OTHER
If President Falls, It Means Para
lysing of .Nation's In
dustry.
.V!?;W" YORK. August 13.?A general
strike on virtually all the railroads of
the nation, paralyzing coninieroc and
throwing approximately 2,000.000 men
out of employment, can be averted only
through the good offices of President
Wilson, as a result of to-day's develop
ments in the dispute over tho men's
demands for an eight-hour day and time
and a half for overtime. The contro
versy was laid before the President, at
his Invitation, after tho workers had
flatly rejected any form of arbitration.
They refused mediation yesterday.
Soon after accepting tho President's
summons, extended through the Fed
eral Board of Mediation and Concilia
tion. the men announced that the
leaders of the four railroad brother
hoods would leave for Washington at
midnight, accompanied by thirty of tho
0A0 delegates. An hour later the rail
road managers, nineteen in number,
said they would leave for the capital
at the same. time.
ItHAt'll CAPITA I* IN TIMK
FOR 1'IAItl.V COM'MiHDXCK
Cot)i parties will reach Washington
to-morrow in time for an early confer
ence with the President. Tho hour for
the meeting will be arranged by Secre
tary Tumulty, who started for this
city for Washington la to to-day as
Mr. Wilson's representative, arriving
hero at !> o'clock to-night.
Mr. Tumulty brought with him a
communication from President Wilson
addressed to tho railroad managers and
tho brotherhoods, pointing out that such
a paralysis of business au would follow
a general strike would bo a catastrophe
at any ti no, but would ho nothing short
of a disaster under present conditions.
On this ground the President based Ins
request for a conference before a strike
order is Issued by tho leaders of tho
men.
Negotiations had not been broken off
when Mr. Tumulty left Washington, but
when ho reached Philadelphia ho re
ceived a telegram from W. L. Cham
bers, one of the mediators, informing
him tho men had declined to arbitrate.
Mr. Tumulty's llrst step after reaching
Now York was to call President Wil
son on the long-distance telephone to
decide upon an hour for tho conference
at the While House to-morrow.
KACH SIDU BI,AMES
OTHER FOR. FAIM'RR
The final break came late to-day, af
ter tho men had been in secret ses
sion nearly six hours. Reports differ
as to the reason for the failure of the
negotiations, in view of tho cheerful
outlook of tho night before. The men
assert they refused arbitration because
tho railroads insisted on arbitrating
their "contingejit proposition."
Tho board of mediators, in a state
ment issued to-night, declared, how
ever, the men rejected tho proposition,
contending that they would not arbi
trate ovon if the railroads waived tho
contingent proposition.
The statement of the mediators, is
sued by Judge Martin A. Knapp, chair
man of tho board, just before their de
parture for Washington, follows:
"After repeated efforts to bring
about an arbitration of the pending
controversy between tho railroads and
their employees in train and yard ser
vice, the United States Board of Media
tion and Conciliation was to-day ad
vised by the representatives of the em
ployees that they would not submit
tho matters in dispute to arbitration
in any form.
Wll.l. NEITHER ARBITRATE
nor sl*(;c;est plan
"The employees further stated to the
board that they would not arbitrate
their own demands, even if the con
tingent demands of the railroads were
withdrawn, and also declined to sug
gest any tyhcr plan or method for a
peaceful settlement of the controversy,
"They were informed that their de
cision would be at onco made known
to President Wilson, and also that the
President claimed the right to a per
sonal interview with'both parties be
fore any drastic action was taken. This
request was, 01* course, granted, and a
largo delegation of employees, with a
number of railroad managers, will b?
in Washington on Monday for a con
ference with tho President."
The chief objection of tho men to
arbitrating the railroad's "contingent
proposition" lay in their contention that
the proposal entailed the wiping out
of double-compensation features which
the men havo gained during thirty
years of effort. The railroads have
contended that double compensation,
together with the demands of tho men,
If granted, would increaso the wages
of many of their employees more thnn
100 per cent.
Rlisha I,ce, chairman of tho confer
ence oommitteo of railroad managers,
declined to discuss tho crisis other tli.oi
to say that the railroads ha>l proposed
first mediation and then arbitration
Without success. Ho placed tho re.
sponsibility for the utter failure upon
the men.
.\ir tlarrctson, the oflicial bpokcmnan
