""uppMnr in." MJMuppntni
'fltfA'N'Ct'A'L EDITION
fcirger
rv-''"t'
NIGHT
EXTRA
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, AUGrUST 14, 101G.
CornianT, 1918, i tbi rnua Loan CoMUjrt.
PRIOIB ONJS CENT
STRIKE PARLEY
NOWAGREEDON,
CAPITAL HEARS
h ,
Railroad Arbitration Ac
cepted Even Before Presi
dent Took Hand
QUICK NEWS
NEW YORK. .. 000000000- 0 1 4
PHILLIES lstG'. 3 0 0 1 0 0 2 2 X 8 11 2
Uentou and Kocher; Alexander and Kllleicr.
B-p-p-reSJT , , .. . .
I NIGHT 4kltirtrVf ft jv&mR2iIL&
II EXTRA 1114:41111
41? VOL. II NO. 286
fy! ' FIRST PHILADELPHIA STREET IS ROPED OFF FOR CHILDREN'S PLAYGROUND
l
This Is Montroso street, looking west
Education. The youngsters of
FAIL
ON SOMME; AIM
VERDUN BLOW
Crown Prince Attacks
French Master Fortress
Thrice in Vain
HALICZ KEPORTED TAKEN
War Moves on All Fronts
Summarized for Readers
First. West front Resumed ac
tivity at Verdun. Allies' pressure
continues on Sommc. Germans re
take few British posts at Poziercs.
Second. East front Slavs press
ing von Bothmcr's army hard. Un
officially reported Halicz has been
occupied. . ,
Third. Italian front Cadorna
driving foo from northeast part of
Carso Plateau.
Fourth. Balkan front Push still
in formative stages.
The significant feature of today's
French communique is the statement of
resumed action on the Verdun front,
vhero the Germans under the Crown
Prince forced attacks and were repulsed
along both bnnks of the Mouse.
French troops are following their
successes north of the Somme yesterday
with an advance south of tho river in
sharp fighting. On the front north of
the Somme there 13 brisk cannonading
wound the newly won French positions
at Maurepas, Paris reports.
The Russians are now vigorously at
tacking the southern flank of von Both
mer's army and are closing in on
Halicz. Fighting is in progress in the
vicinity of this very important rail
road center and there is an uncon
firmed report from Petrograd that the
town has been already captured by a
heavy force of Cossacks.
General Cadorna is steadily driving
the Austrian3 from the northwestern
lection of the Carso Plateau. The Aus
trians havo stiffened their resistance
on the hills east of Gorizia, but have
not succeeded in checking the advance
of the Italians, who have won fresh
Continued on l'aio Four. Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
JHWa on a Ktw HUcovsw fit Solar Vhutict
V 1VILU3 S, HOOKB and W, P. OAROTHBRS
Sunday, August 20. and Monday, August
Jl-The week will open with showers and
moderately cool temperatures. It will fair
Up Monday,
Tuesday. August 22, to Thursday, August
It will, grow warmer, beginning Tues
;,?, h maximum temperatures reaching
middle 80s and minima around 70 degrees,
with fair weather.
.riday, August 25, and Saturday, August
"Showers Friday or Saturday will In
troduce cool movement, which will clear
jne weather and again lower temperatures
Into the 60s,' . r
General weather movements due)
. .r ,mvement, due to develop In north-.
United States August 21, will be a
'rata movement, probably united" wth
Thi r mvement due August 84.
Jj J.wUl b6 an average movement, In-f-iu5!?
In aU sections by showers (heavier
W middle and. southern States) and bringing
wear and 20-degrees colder weather gener.
K-iy!j"ih.'rosta ,n Montana, Wyoming and
rtn Dakota.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
j" Philadelphia and. vicinity Fair
om continued cool tonight 'and Tues
M"; gentle winds, vwatly northwest.
LENGTH fV HAV-
I
S &'? 512 I Moon'rU".. 7:30 p. m.
a Mt. . . 8X8 p. m. Moort Oulhi:iH0 a. S.
BKLAWABK R1VEK TIDK CHANGES.
w. . CHESTNUT BTKEBT.
" wter Q;09 a. ra. I Low watar. 93(1 p. m.
.TElU'EBATCUK AT KAC1T IIOUB. ,
jfOliOl HI 131 T 21 31 iT6
. XOST ANDSWND
tttSh"1"' Auut IS. o-untloa ease watch.
tSS.rJ"Sarl and no iut!ona aalted If r
4 to W. Bmltb. 21 W. um .
GERMAN
Thoto by Lcdser Photo Tatrol.
from Eighth, which was closed to traffic today and Bet aside for the children under direction of the Board of
the neighborhood lost no time in taking advantage of the provisions made for them, as the picture shows.
PRIEST, DEFYING
ORDER, EXPLAINS
FIGHT ON A. 0. H.
Father McDermott Gives
Out Letter Despite Warn-'
ing of Archbishop
"MOLLY MAGUIRE" EXPOSE
The Itov. Daniel I. McDermott, rector of
St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church, Fourth
street near Spruco, has mado public his let
ter to tho archbishop of the diocese which
accompanied his resignation. Father Mc
Dermott took tlio action because the Ancient
Order of Hibernians nro to open their con
vention in Fottsvllle with a mass.
In giving out tho letter tho priest dis
obeyed tho Injunction of Archbishop Pron
dcrgast and gave to the public In tlio letter
his reasons for opposing recognition by tho
Church of tho Hibernian order.
Father McDormott revlowa In tho letter
tho crimes of tho "Molly Magulres" and
lays responsibility for the murder of Doc
tor Cronln, a prominent Irishman In Chi
cago, some years ago, to a former national
president of the A. O. II.. who, his letter
states, "plotted and compassed the. mur
der." It was because, he said, Doctor
Cronln had asked for nn accounting of
Irish funds lost In speculating In the wheat
pit that he was "foully done to death."
"Why should tho A. O. H. make such a
shameless exhibition of Itself In the place
where so many of its dupes were hanged?"
the priest wrote. "Why should It desire a
mass In St. Patrick's Church, when a few
feet from Its altar lie the remains of the
youth It summoned from Camden, N. J
to commit murder, and who accused It on
the scaffold as responsible for the crlmo
he was about to expiate'; and who with his
last breath said If he had listened to the
counsel of his bishop and priests to abandon
the A. O. II. he would not be condemned to
suffer such a disgraceful death?
CALLS ItEQUEST INDECENT.
"An A. O. II. convention opened with mass
In St. Patrick's Church Is not a whit les3 In
decent than would be the holding of an
A. O. II. convention In the courthouse where
Its members were convicted, than an A. O.
II. jollification in the Jail where they were
imprisoned, than an A. O. II. danco around
the scaffold on which they were executed.
"Since the electric chair has been sub.
stituted for the hangman's halter It would
be In keeping with the proposed conven
tion for the A. O. H. to purchase the gibbet
and to have crosses made of It for the dec
oration of their division, county, State and
national chaplain's."
'Your blessing given the A. O. II. was
either a blunder, or a crime, or both," he
wrote to the Archbishop.
ARCHBISHOP REGRETFUL
Archbishop Prendergast was asked yes
terday If he would comment upon the resig
nation of Father McDermott as rector of
St. Mary'a Church. Ho hesitated, and Anally
said. "I have nothing to say."
The Archbishop added, "I regret it. I
regret It exceedingly."
"Have you taken Father McDermott's
resignation under advisement?" he was
asked. ...
"I havo nothing to say," repeated the
Archbishop after another pause. "These are
church matters, and they cannot be dis
cussed." The priest .In his letter to the Archbishop
quotes the Rev, J. L. J, Kerlln. of Frank
ford, as saying that ths headquarters of the
A. O. H. of Frankford "Is a scene of
drunken orgy from Saturday afternoon until
Monday morning." ' Ho-adds. "It goes with
out saying that this description fits nearly
all, If not all. their hills."
Father McDermott's letter, which was
delivered. July 31. criticises the Archbishop
for sending his best wishes and blessings to
officials of the A. O. H. In November, 1910,
in recognition of the "gifts and congratula
tlons" they offered on the occalon of the
Archbishop's Jubilee. The priest told the
Archbishop theso gifts and, congratulations
were "bribes to purchase your approval of
the order."
SEES SOUL MENACE
His opposition to the A. O. H.. Father
McDermott wrote, concerned "a state of
Cwitowil n " ?tr Celama Two
CITY WILL ISSUE
PLAGUE PERMITS
ON DOUBLE SHIFT
Two Offices Open in City
.Hall for Prospective
Travelers
COLD HALTS EPIDEMIC
Permits authorizing parents to tako their
children from the city during tho away of
tho Infantile paralysis plaguo will bo Is
sued In tho futuro from Common Picas
Court No. 3, room E No. 275, City Hall, In
addition to room 712, according to an an
nouncement mado today at tho otllce of the
chief medical inspector. Permission to do
so was obtained from Judge McMlchaei.
Tho court Is now In Its summer recess and
will not reconvene until early In Sep
tember. - Tho courtroom ATlll'bouscd-only'Detwcen
S o'clock In tho morning and 4 o'clock In
tho afternoon. At other times certificates
will be Issued only In tho seventh floor
room.
"The room previously occupied for this
purposo was too small," said Doctor Calms.
"Men and women wero congested In tho
room and it was inconvenient for the public
as well as for tho clerks. In applying for
permits It Is unnecessary for parents to
bring their children to City Hall. Only
a certificate i3 necessary from tho family
physician stating that the child Is not
possessed with a contagious disease, but It
must be presented to this ofllce within 12
hours after its Issuance."
COLD HALTS PLAGUE SPREAD
Dr. Samuel G. Dixon, State Commissioner
of Health, said today tH.it without doubt
the grip of tho infantile paralysis epidemic
had been broken by the cold wave which set
In yesterday. He pointed out that in Phila
delphia today only ono new caso had de
veloped and tint throughout the State, with
a population of C.GOO.OOO, only a total of
Continued on Tate Two. Column Fire
PHILLIES PILE UP BIG
LEAD IN FIRST INNING
Benton Is Hit Hard in First
Game Alex Hurls Against
Giants
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
NATIONAL LEAGUE PAItK, Aug, U.
Gawy Cravath and I3II1 Klllefer, tho
two hospital inmates of the Phillies, started
In the first game of today's double-header
against tho New York Giants. Whllo
Klllefer's arm is not In the best shape, he
stated that he did not expect to be greatly
troubled.
Qrover Alexander went Into the box
against Rube. Benton and got off to a flying
start as usual.,
FIRST INNING
G. Burns struck out. Doylo grounded to
Nlelioft. Herzog singled to right Herzog
was caught napping off first, Alexander to
Luderus. Njj runs, one hit, no errors.
I'askert was thrown out by Doyle. Nle
holt singled to. center. Byrno doubled
against the left-center wall, scoring Nle
hoff. Cravath sent a, grounder to Fletcher,
wh( threw wild to first, Byrne scoring and
Cravath going to second. WhlWed's
grounder went through Doyle's legs for a
three-base error and Cravath scored.
Luderus fanned. Bancroft filed to Burns.
Three runs, two hits, two errors.
SECOND INNING.
Bancroft threw put Robertson. Luderus
stuck out his glove and robbed Kauff of a
suro hit. Merkle grounded out to Byrne.
No runs, no hits, no errors.
Klllefer's grounder rolled through Doyle's
legs for another error. Alexander forced
Klllefer, Benton to Fletcher. Paskert
walked. Ntehoff hit Into a double play,
Doyle to Fletcher to Merkle. No runs, no
hits, ona error.
THIRD INKING.
Fletcher struck out Kocher fanned, Ben
ton also fa tared. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
Byrno grounded to Herzog. Cravath
bounced a single against the right-field
fence, but was thrown out at second, Rob
ertson to Doyle. Whltted walked. Whltted
stole second. Luderus walked. Bancroft out,
CnUaucd cm l'?xe Two. Colcjs HU
MAYOR HOME;
MIND MADE UP,
BUT RETICENT
Wants to Look Over Vice
Epidemic Before An
nouncing Plans
OUSTED POLICE EESTORED
Developments of the Day
In City's Vice Situation
MAYOR SMITH, arriving home
from Atlantic City this after
noon, announced that he had decided
upon hia course of action following
the Grand Jury recommendations,
but would not make it public for
"some time."
Tho Mnyor declared that he would
consult no politicians nbout hia de
cision thnt the police must resign
from political clubs and added that
he did not care what any one thought
of it.
Director Wilson reinstated tho
four suspended police officials vend
ing their trial Inter this month.
Magistrate Call, recommended for
indictment by tho July Grand Jury,
declared that he "didn't give a hang"
if the August jury did indict him.
August jury, sworn in by Judge
McMichael today, will probably be
gin action in n day or two on
recommendations of preceding jury.
Gambling leaders and Tenderloin
habitues return to city following dis
slution of investigating jury.
"1 havo made up my mind as to what I
am going to do, but I will not make It
known to the public nt tho present."
Mayor Smith mado this announcement
this afternoon In answer to questions re
garding what course ho Intends to pursue
In following out the recommendations con
tained in the presentment returned last
week by the Grnnd Jury that Investigated
vlco conditions In this city.
The Mayor returned to the city at 1:30
o'clock this after.noon from Atlantic City,
where he has been spending a week's vaca
tion. Ho came hero alone, and went directly
from tho ferries to City Hall, whero he con
ferred later In tho afternoon with Director
Wilson about tho Grand Jury's report.
"Whether Superintendent Robinson Is
brought up for trial before the Police Trial
Board or not will not be known until he
finally decides to announce his decision, the
Mayor said.
"I have made up my mind as to what I
want," ho sa'.d, "but I want to look over
tho evidence submitted to the Grand Jury
before I make my position and plans
known.
"Tho public Is Interested only In the re
sults I obtain, and not in tho methods em
ployed to obtain those results. I feel confi
dent that I can obtain the results I have
promised."
The walla of politicians who are "up in
the air" aa the result of the Mayor's order
that policemen resign from political clubs
and similar organizations will not be heed
ed by him, continued the Mayor.
"I do not Intend to confer with any
politicians about that order," he said.
"What they think about It does not concern
me In the least."
To all other questions he answered, "I
positively will not say anything more about
It now."
Director Wilson was closeted with the
Mayor for more than half an hour after the
latter arrived at his office In City Hal).
When he left the conference Mr. Wilson
said:
"I called on the Mayor to get his O, K.
to an order that will go far toward taking
the police out of politics. With tho Mayor's
approval I will Issue orders this evening
that every man connected with the police
department must resign from any and all
political clubs In which they may be mem
bers. This order will be final." '
Director Wilson, of the Department of
Publlo Safety, this afternoon reinstated
the four police officials who wero suspended
CentlnotJ eo fast Two, Colmus. Ttr
MURDERER'S DEATH SENTENCE COMMUTED
RALEIGH, N". C, Aug. 14. The dentil seiiteuco of Me?v"n Home,
of Wilmington, who was scheduled to die in tile electric ahull' dii
1'rlday for tho murder of his urothcr-iii-lliw v,m today uoiiiliiuicd to
life liiiprlsouuieut.
ALEX WINS 22D GAME.
PHILLIES r
I'aakcrt.cl o
NlchuuViitj 2
Byntc.ib 1
Cravdtli.tf 3
Whittcd.lf i
It o a c
Z 0 0
2 13 1
12 3 1
2 2 0 0
2 0 0 0
Luderus, lb 0 0 12 0 0
Bancroft, ss 0 10 2 0
Killcfcr, c 0 0 7 0 0
Alexander, p 1-10 2 0
Totala...
8 11 27 10
SARATOGA RACING RESULTS
First rnce, 2-ycn.r-olds, $500 ndded, 5 1-2 furlongs Ultimatum,
110, Troxler, O to 5, out, out, won; Bnlly, 110, Sheldliifr, O to 2, O to
10, 1 to 3, second; Sedan, 110, Murphy, 7 to 2, 4 to 5, 1 to 5, third.
Time, 1.08.
CHARLES J. PATNE, YACHT OWNER, DIES IN BOSTON
BOSTON, Aug. 14. Charles J. Paine, Civil War veteran and
owner of three yachts that have 'defended the America's cup, died nt
TToston today. He wns C3 years
NEW COURT DISTRICT PLANNED FORTEXAS .
TTASHINGTON, Aug. 14. Creation of n fifth Federal vJTitiict
court in western Texas is provTuetl In u bill reported favflraLf today
by tho Senate Judiciary Committee.
PENROSE ASKS PAY FOR U. S. WORKERS ON BORDER
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. Resolutions looking to the payment of 10,000 Fed
eral employes, who nro now away from their regular places performing military
duty on tho Mexican border, were introduced today by Senator Penrose. He pro
poses that they shall Bet the full salary they receive as civil service employes nnd
that their places shall bo held for them.
TEN TONS OF BRICK FALL AS WALL TUMBLES
Ten tons of brick fell today In tho collapse of a 35-foot wall at 128-140 North
Broad street, whero the onc-tlme Nichols Horso Bazaar 13 being torn down to
make way for tho new Hudson automobilo building. Three negroes Thomas
"Williams, 1116 Helmer street; Chnrles Osborne, Fifth and "Water streets, nnd Nor
man Brlnkley, 1356 Balnbrldgo street were slightly hurt, and were treated at
Hahnemann Hospital. Tht-fy-elght men were working there at the time. The con
tractors Bald pressure from an adjoining
ACTIVITY IN NORTH SEA, STEAMSHIP REPORTS
BEROKN, Norway, Aug. 14. Steamship captains arriving here today report
activity In the North Sea. German warships singly and In squadrons are patrollng
near the Norwegian coast, while submarines and Zeppelins wero also observed..
BRITAIN NOW BLACKLISTS SOUTH AMERICAN FIRMS
LONDON,-Aug. 14. Lord Robert Cecil, of the Foreign Ofllce, announced In
Commons today that tho Dopiirtmont of Foreign Trado had Issued another black
list containing the names of 443 South American firms having German connections.
H. C. COOPER TAKEN OFF BRITISH BLACKLIST
LONDON, Aug. 14. The name of Herrman C. Cooper, of New York city, has
been removed from the British blacklist, It was announced today by the Foreign
Trade Department. At the same time It was said that tho Government Is consider
ing the removal of other names. American business men in London are considering
the advisability of forming an American Chamber of Commerce for self-protection,
TEUTONS TO DECLARE POLAND INDEPENDENT
LONDON, Aug) ,14. The Independence of Poland, with her own constitution
under Certain guarantees, Is expected to bo proclaimed by tho Central Powers within
a few days, as a result of the conferences between the German Chancellor, Doctor
von Bethmann-Hollweg, and Foreign Minister von Jagow and the Emperor Francis
Joseph at Vienna. The proclamation of the Independence of Poland will call upon
the Poles to form an army of their own for national defense. Poland will also be
granted the choice of her own constitution and home rule under certain guarantees,
they say, The dispatches give tho Impression that Germany and Austria decided
to take this action to forestall similar action on the part of Russia.
FURTHER REDUCTION IN PRICE OF OIL
INDEPENDENCE, Kan., Aug. 14. Market quotation for mld-Contlnent crude
oil has been reduced 10 cents a barrel to $1.05 by Prairie OH and Gas Company.
FINDLAY, O., Aug. 14. The Ohio Oil Company reduced North and South Lima,
Indiana, "Wooster, Illinois and Princeton oils each 5 cents a barrel and Plymouth JO
cents this mornins.
NEW YORK, Aug. 14. The Standard OU Company of New York this morning
reduced the price of refined oll'for export 10 points,
100 CHICKENS ROASTED AS BARN BURNS
About 100 chickens were roasted early today when a barn in the rear of the
home of Mrs. J. F. Junkerman, 4$52 North Sixth street, was burned. Twenty
chickens were saved by Mrs. Junkerman, who heard the. cackling, of the others soon
afterthe Are started. Sergeant Hill, of the Broncbtown police station, helped rescue
. few. The loss vu $00. The origin of tho nro id undetermined,
BEATING GIANTS IN FIRST
NEW YORK r h o
G. But no, If 0 0 3
a e
0 0
I 2
3 1
1 0
0 0
1 0
2 1
0 0
2 0
0 0
Doyle, 2b 0 0
Ilcrzujj.O'j 0 8
Robcrlsoii.tf 0 0
Kauri', cf 0 1
Merkle, lb 0 0
Fletcher, ss 0 0 2
Kocher, c t) 0 A
Uctiton, p 0 1 1.
Kelly, lb 0 0 2
Totahi.
0 .1 24 13 4
old.
:h
yi
wall wns responsible.
CAUSE OF BROTHERHOOD.
Employes In Conference
White House on Media
tion Plan
at
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. Tho rep
resentatives of the Railway Managers'
Association went into conference with
President Wilson at 2:51 this after
noon. -
,
Bu a Staff Corrttpondent
WASHINGTON, Aug. 14. The EvENltfO
LcDOEn correspondent Is Informed upon the
highest nuthorlty that an agreement has
been reached to sottlo tho difficulties be
twocn tho men and tho railroads by arbi
tration. This Information Is to tho effect
that tho employes and railroad companies
had reached a point whero the agreement
for mediation nnd arbitration was about
concluded when President Wilson Inter
vencd. i
Thoso who have followed tho course of the
Board of Conciliation aro convinced that ths
conferences the employes and employers had
with tho President will lead to arbitration,
and that the samo result would have been
achieved without the pressure exerted In a
public way by President Wllsfin. Tho en
try of tho President In a publlo way Into
the dispute Is looked upon by those familiar
with tho negotiations as spectacular.
Before tho railroad men entered the con.
ferences with tho President at 3 o'clock
tho Information was given out that tho
situation looked entirely favorable to ar
bitration. PRESIDENT'S PLAN
At the conference with tho employers tht
President, It was said, would propose a
concrete arbitration proposition which. In
their opinion, would prove acceptable to
both sides.
Tho nature of this proposal Is known so N(
far only to tho President' and the rep
resentatives of the "big four' unions wltlvr
whom ho conferred earlier In the day. But'
Cabinet officials Insist that It carries a
ronl arbitration proposal, which will per
mit tho great lssuo between b6th sides
the eight-hour workday and what It In
volves to bo settled by arbitrators.
President Wilson, It was reported, made
it plain to the bratherhood representatives
that he could not ba the single arbitrator
or tho "odd man" In a board of arbitra
tion. However, ho suggested certain names
of men who could be brought Into tho plan
and the brotherhood representatives "lis
tened kindly" to this suggestion.
"Tho negotiations nro entirely In th,
President's hands," said A. B. Garretson,
spokesman for the employes. He declined
to discuss the situation beyond that, but
Warren S. Stone, representative of ths ''
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, said:
"I am optimistic," and W. P. Lee, of tht
brakemen, said,; "It looks very good."
BROTHERHOOD'S CAUSE.
It Is understood that the brotherhood
representatives told the President they had
been compelled to refuse arbitration under
the terms suggested by tho Federal Board
of Conciliation, because they did not be
lieve that the board realized the Import
ance of their demands. The President, It
was definitely Jearned, Insisted that in na
circumstances would the publlo sanction a
strike. .He is understood to have made it
plain that In his opinion. If a strike should
be precipitated through the refusal of the
labor leaders to treat with tho roads, tho
unions would be blamed and the labor cause
would suffer.
In reply the union leaders Insisted that
they received scant courtesy at the hands
'of the railway managers, who had insisted
on mediation without making any pro
position of what concessions they would
be willing to make to bring mediation
about. The President, It Is understod. In
sisted In reply that he had no opinion regard
ing the merits of tho controversy; that h
Intended making It plain to the railway
managers that their responsibility befor
the public was equally grave with' that
of the employes, but he was determined to
prevent a strike at any cost,
RAILROAD MEN MEET.
The White House was extremely retlcerK'
regarding the details of the conference.
Secretary Tumulty said nothing could bt
said until after the conferences were com
pleted. Before golnsr to the White House to con
fer with the President at 3 o'clock the' rail?
way managers had a long conference (a
their hotel. A. statement on the side of ths
railroads was prepared, and It was agreed
that It should be read to the Chief Execu
tive by Ellsha LeeL chairman of the board
of managers. Like the labor leaders th
managers seemed hopeful that a. utrike
would be prevented.
Report that the men had asked the Pru
dent to act as arbitrator in person ynr
widely circulated. No official statemMt
on this report or on another that, thrs
members of the Cabinet might ba aske4 t
serve could be obtained from any of th
Interested parties.
udg? Chambers, of the Mediation
whp was the spokesman of the Presidat
arranging the conference., tUv4(
agreement would bs reachid. ,.
NO POWER TO TAKE LINES,
It has been reported at various Itfwtf
that the Hay-Chamberlain, army WH
tha Federal Government OWr to Ww -over
t ,IY fcuU OBIT8U th M- f
