* n . .*
I WEATHER- k _ . n L^Vilf v A CI "From Pre** to Horn*
Fair and-continued cool tonight and to- M H.^k ^IIAa A > < A^J ????????
ature ending I ^ |^9kT ABr^^ m Within the Hour
p.m.: Highest. p.m. yesterday; r^B ^ Bk" at _____________
lowest, a.m. today. y K J J H H . H H B * H ? H ' I ?
Full report on page U. ^========.
I y J I y 1 I / Smrs Ret Ctrealattea. Heath at Jely,
CUMHG JtEW YORK STOCKS PAGE II ^ >X- ^ ^ ' > 1IM, Mly Atengh TUMl llllty. (Wl*.
No. 20,410. . WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 1916-FOURTEEN PAGES. * . ONE CENT.
- ' ~ i .-..., =
RUSSIANS RAPIDLY
PUSHING TEUTONS
BACK ONLEMBERG
Both Flanks of Gen. von Bothmer's
Army Under Heavy
Pressure.
MENACED IN REAR ALONG
THE UPPER ZLOTA LIPA
PetrogTad Announces Further Gains
by Czar's Armies on the
Upper Sereth.
BATTLING ON A LONG LINE
Berlin Announces Bepulse of Several
Russian Lines, But Makes No
Claim of Progress for
the Teutons.
LONDON, August 14.?The
Russian drive in Galicia is pushing
the Austro-German armies
backward toward Lemberg at a
rapid rate.
Both flanks of Gen. Count von
Bethmer's army on the Lemberg
front are under heayy pressure
and its center, forced from the
line of the Stripa, is accounted
by military observers in entente
capitals to have none too secure
a position in its rear along the
upper Zlota Lipa, to which it is
presumed to be retreating.
Petrograd today announces new
gains for the Russians on the
northern wing of this front, on
the upper Sereth, while to the
* south Gen. Letchitzky is continuing
his thrust up the Dniester
in the vicinity of Mariampol,
seven miles from Halicz. Capture
of Mariampel by the Russians
was announced yesterday. The
Russian armies in the center also
are pursuing the Austrians in the
middle Stripa and Koropice regions.
Banian Sweep Unchecked.
PETROGRAD, August 14, via London,
2:20 p.m.?Along the Galician front
the Russian sweep continued unchecked,
the official announcement of today
states. Further gains have been made
on the Upper Sereth. In the region of
the Middle Stripa and the Kropice the
Austrian* are being* pursued by the
Russians, who reached the northern
bank of the Dniester before MariampoL
The official statement says:
"Western front?In the Priamur hos
pital near the little town of Siniavka,
two sisters and one hospital. orderly
were killed and two sisters wounded
by a bomb from an enemy aeroplane.
Fighting on the Stokhod.
"In the region south of the little town
of Stobychva on the evening of August
13 the enemy attacked our troops on
the western bank of the Stokhod, but
as the result of a counter attack which
followed he was driven back to his
positions.
"On the Upper Sereth our advance
continues. The enemy retired to the
west to a fortified position behind
which at some points he is checking
our advance by fierce artillery fire.
"In the region of the Middle Stripa
and the River Koropice our troops,
continuing to pursue the enemy, advanced
to the west, and, arriving before
'he Zlota Llpa. near Zavalov and
Korzov, reached the northern bank of
the Dniester before Mariampol.
"In th* region of Yaremcze, Yaloviczary
and Kirlibaba. In the wooded
Carpathians, local attacks of the enemy
were everywhere repelled by our
troops."
Violent Fighting Beported.
BERLIN. August 14, by wireless to
Kayvllle.?Violent fighting is under
way in Galicia. particularly in the
Stanislau region, where the Russians
are delivering attacks unceasingly. The
official Austrian statement of Sunday
reports the repulse of neveral Russian
? assaults The announcement follows:
"Front, of Archduke Charles Francis:
Southeast of Vorocht our troops maintained
their positions in the face ot
violent attacks by the enemy, which
failed completely In the district just
west of Stanislau two Russian divisions
were repulsed In violent fighting.
which is continuing by day and
night. Hast of the Dniester only detachments
of small force are engaged
on uur side.
"Front of Field Marshal von Hindenburg?Northwest
of Z&locze Gen
Boehm-Krmolli once more repulsed attacks
by masses of Russian troops.
"In the district of Brody a Rusaiar
Albatross aeroplane was set on fire b>
a shot and then brought down by ar
Austro-Hungarian aviator.
"In Volhynia and along the Stokhod
the engagements were less bitter. It i>
staled with certainty that during th<
last attacks along the Stokhod front
which failed completely, the Rusaiar
guard was employed and that it suf
fered still heavier losses than the othei
formations of the enemy.
Three Veuelt Reported Sunk.
lyOHDON, August 1?.?Uoyl't reporti
'" the linking of the Russian steamshli)
Kovda. 1.225 tons gross, snd of th?
small Italian sailing vssaala Lorenzo
0 Lonato and San Antonio.
GEMS IN SUP
WHITISH
London Admits Enemy Gained
Temporary Footing in
Pozieres Trenches.
FRENCH NORTH OF SOMME
FOLLOW UP THEIR GAINS
German Attacks on the Verdun
Front Benulsed. According to
Paris Report.
LONDON, August 14.?Following
the usual course, the Germans
have sharply counter-attScked
along the line west of
Pozieres whicji the war office last
night reported the British to have
carried to a depth of 300 or 400
yards on a front of nearly a mile.
The attack was partly luccessful,
the Germans gaining a foothold
in a portion of the lost
trenches.
French Follow tip Gains.
Following up their gains on the north
bank of the Somme, the French are
pushing their advance to a point where
German evacuation of Clery, commanding
the direct approach to Peronne
from the northwest, may be compelled.
Fighting is being continued in the
Maurepas sector northwest of Clery,
where -brisk cannonading is reported
today. Vo the left of the Fay-Deniecourt
road a French attack resulted in
carrying some trenches.
Official British Report.
Today's official communication says:
"Last night west of Pozieres the
enemy gained a temporary footing in
a portion of the trenches captured by
us yesterday. Otherwise there were no
developments on the British front between
the Somme and the Ancre.
"South of the Ypres salient we carried
out a successful raid without incurring
any losses ourselves. There
has been further mining activity."
German Attacks Repulsed.
PARIS, August 14, 12:30 p.m.?The
French troops captured some trenches
on the left of the Fay-Daniecourt road
in the Somme sector last night, says
the war office announcement today.
There was brisk cannonading in the
region of Maurepas. German attacks in
the vicinity of hill 304 and at Fleury
(in the Verdun sector) were repulsed.
Berlin Records Ho Gains.
BERLIN, August 13, via London,
August 14.?The French and British
hurled large masses of troops against
German positions pn the Somme front
yesterday and last night. The official
statement of the German army headquarters
of today records no gains for
the entente allies and says the assaults
between Thiepval and Guillemont broke
down with the heaviest losses.
Attack on Three Points.
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
FRANCE, August 12, via London, August
14.?The British infantry has re
ncwed Its offensive, attacking: at three
points early today over a total of about
two miles of front, and making important
gains north of the Somme in addition
to those of the French yesterday.
North of Pozieres, toward the Mouquet
farm, British and Australian troops
took a 500-yard depth of a mile front.
North of Bazentin-le-Petit they mastered
more commanding ground, which
brings them closer to Martinpuich.
South^of Guillemont they gained a
ridge, but were blasted off of it by the
German guns.
The attack north of Pozieres closely
followed German counter attacks which
were overwhelmed by the British gunfire
Friday. The British here have
gained the ridge, pushing the Germans
down the slope, and the British gunfire
is so terrific that the Germans have
given up trying to keep them intact.
HUGHES HAS BUSY DAY
ON VISIT TO SPOKANE
i
Leads Automobile Parade, Takes
Motor Trip and Is to Make Two
Speeches, One to Women.
SPOKANE, August 14.?Charles E.
Hughes today expects to spend one
of the busiest days of his campaigning
trip. He was up early to lead an
automobile parade, arranged so that
those who would be unable to attend
the two later metttngs could see him.
I His forenoon program included a
motor trip to Couer d'Alene, Idaho, j
twenty-five miles away, through a }
country of scenic interest. There he j
is to address an open air meeting,
remaining for luncheon.
Two speeches are on his day's pro|
gram here. The first at 3:30 p.m. is
1 to be a meeting for woman voters
only, the first of its kind arranged
1 } for the nominee. _ The second, at 7 :30
I p.nvT is to be a general meeting.-" Mr."
I ! Hughes will leave immediately thereafter
at 8:45 p.m. for Tacoma.
AT SEA WITH MUTINOUS CBEW.
Bark Callao Sends Wireless Call to |
San Francisco for Help.
I SAN FRANCISCO, August 14.?With
* her crew in a state of mutiny, the
i bark Callao. which left here Saturday
i for New York, is today somewhere,
off the Golden Gate awaiting a tug to
r bring her back to this port. The Callao,
which Is equipped with wireless,
sent a radio call for a tug late Saturday
night. A tug was dispatched to
her aid. but returned last night, hav1
ing been unable to locate the bark on
? account of the dense fog. Another
, tug was sent to locate the vessel.
The Callao is loaded with 1,S00 tons
of barley and oil for New Yqrk.
WMGTONK
AS CITY BUILDERS
_ \
Accused of Doing Little or
Nothing Toward Capital Upbuilding
and Adornment.
DONORS OF FIVE-SEVENTHS
? OF ORIGINAL CITY
Paid Nearly All Cost of Capital
Maintenance to 1878; Since Then
One-Half, and Toward the Other
Half in National Taxes More
Than Average American.
.
No. IV.
Editorial Correspondence of The Star.
BY THEODOBE W. NOTES.
Representative Johnson believes that
the great cost of capital upbuilding
and adornment has been paid by the
nation, and that Washington and the
Washingtonians, while pretending
great accomplishments in this connection.
have done very little, almost nothing.
In his House speech, he says:
"The great cost of capital building
and capital beautiflcation has been paid
and is being paid by the national government
and but little by the District
of Columbia. *
"Out of the fifty or more pictures illustrated
by Taft's article (in the Geographic
Magazine) it is not certain that
property in the District of Columbia
has been taxed to help pay for more
than two of them, yet they have all
been used in connection with this magazine
article for the purpose of showing
to the country the great cost of
National Capital building without being
frank enough to say in so many
words that nearly all the cost was paid
for bv the federal government and but
an insignificant part of it paid for by
the District of Columbia."
These fifty pictures are discussed in
detail to show that the District of Columbia
paid little or nothing toward
the buildings and grounds which are
pictured* and the federal government
nearly all.
More than half of the pictured subject*
are either privately owned, la
which cane the federal government contributed
nothing, or were donated to
the government by private benefactor*
like Andrew Carnegie, thus relieving
both the national government and the
District of Columbia. The re*ldence*
privately owned which are pictured
were paid for not In part, but wholly
by the resident* of the Di*trlct of Columbia.
The statement that the Distrfet
of Colombia paid nothing toward
the new milroad terminal* and the
ellinlflhtlon of grade eroaalnga la In
error. Simmered down, the charge in
that Wanhington and the Washlngtoninns
have contributed nothing toward
the public building* and ground* here
and that they pretend to have contributed
everything.
The original public building* and
ground*, an everybody know*, were
paid for out of the proceed* of the *ale
of Wanhington lot* donated to the government
by Wa*hingtonian*. In effect,
the federal government thun paid nothing
for the park* and public building*
of the original city. Street* pictured in
the Taft article were the direct gift of
the original Wa*hingtonlann.
The Wanhington .Monument wan thu*
built upon ground In effect donated by
Wn*hlngtonlan* and erected to the
height of over ISO feet by private *ubncrlptlon*
In which Wanhington Ian*
participated.
It 1* inaccurate to nay that the rfl*trlct
of Columbia ha* contributed nothing
toward the cont of modern public
building* and ground* paid for out of
national fund*. The resident* of the
Dl*trict of Columbia pay national taxes
precisely on the name ban!* a* other
American*. For thin purpose and for
the purpone of lighting a* soldier* In
defense of the flag, they are American*, I
to the name extent a* the Kentucklan*.!
Washlngtonian*. Instead of ebntrlbut- j
Ing little or nothing toward capital up-'
building and adornment, have given i
< 1) the ground from the proceed* of |
the *ale of which a* lot* the original'
public park* were secured and all the
original public building* were erected
and for many year* maintained and developed;
42) the broad Mtreetw and avenue*
of the capital, constituting more
than one-half of the original city;
43) nearly all the cost of municipal
maintenance of the nation** city up to
1K74-N, and nlnce that time one-half
of such cost; and (4) from the very
beginning down to the present day
w anniuKionian* nave contributed to
the national fundn used for the development
of the nation'* city on the same
ban in an other Americana, and in
amount per capita fnr more than the
average American outaide of Waahlogton.
Washington's National Taxes.
The fact that the people of the District
of Columbia contribute on equal
terms with the people of the states toward
all national taxes, and that it is
their money as much as the money or
the people of any state which Is spent
in national development of the nation's
city and in the development of unnavigable
creeks into nominally navigable
rivers in the states is often overlooked.
It is sometimes said that the people of
the states contribute about 7 cents
apiece annually for National Capital
maintenance and development, and that
for the same purpose the Washingtonians
contribute about $18 apiece
annually. It is to be remembered that
the Wajshlngtonian contributes on both
sides of the account. He contributes
as much as any other American toward
the national city development (7 cents)
and the $1H in addition.
The expenditure of national money
for the development of the National
Capital is recognized as a proper national
outlay everywhere in the world.
There has been controversy over the
propriety of many forms of national
appropriations, as. for instance, those
for internal Improvements, roads, canals.
etc.. but no one has ever contend
ed that the capital or a nation la not a
proper object of the nation's fostering
The Washington tan not only contributes
toward all national taxes, hut
by reason of the location of his city
and Its conditions he pays heavily.
In a House debate in the last Congress
a table was submitted, receiving
serious consideration, which distributed
the *#,'>00,000 paid the year before
by the nation for capital maintenance
among the states according to
population, and credited each state
as contributing approximately that
amount toward the expenses of the
District. Of course no such contribution
is actually made. The different
congressional constituencies from the
different states contributed to the national
taxes in widely varying amounts.
Many constituencies do not contribute
as much t6 the national taxes as the
District Itself does, 4nd many of them
1 contribute only a small fraction of thdt
'lit . 1
A
4
.////
f? mr*n.
"Vv''"
V^n*" <lV; ^
j: <^ -5^?
v . 7
amount. If the graduated Income tax si
on individuals displaces the other na- it
tional taxes and it comes to pass that t?
the only national taxpayers are less tl
than half a million income-boasting tl
citizens out of 0r?/X>0/M)0 or 100,0<>0.<*J<> p,
of Americans, it will be still more difli- di
cult to trace a specific contribution in fl
national taxes for the benefit of the c<
National Capital "mendicant" to the tl
congressman's alleged indignant and l?
protesting constituent. it
The only national taxes that fall
directly and unmistakably and in as* a
certainable amounts upon Americans <)i
are the internal revenue taxes* Includ- rr,
ing the excise, corporation and Individual
Income faxes* Washington ex- "V
ceeds Ih total contribution In 1914 to Ci
these national taxes Alabama, Arizona,. c
Arkansas, Colorado. Delaware, Geor- n
gia, Idaho. Kansas. Maine, Mississippi, <>
Montana, Nevada. New Hampshire, New ^
Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma. Ore- c
gon. South Carolina, South Dakota, ^
Utah, Vermont and Wyoming, twenty- a
two states, and Alaska and Hawaii,
two territories. Twenty-six states ai
were larger contributors. ji
The Washingtonian's per capita contri- {
bution to these national taxes exceeds c,
the per capita of all the. above list of
twenty-two states and two territories, and Qj
exceeds in addition the per capita contribution
of Connecticut, Florida, Iowa, ^
Louisiana. Massachusetts, Michigan, Min- f,
nesota. Nebraska, Rhode Tsland, Tennes- \\
see, Texas, Washington and West Vir- ^
I glnia. Thus thirty-six states and two a
; territories contribute a smaller per capita ^
than Washington, and only twelve states a
I show a larger per capita contribution. j,
| One Washingtonian pays more in this j
! kind of national taxes than one Mlssissip- a
plan, one Arkansan, one North Dakotan, $
I one Oklahomite, one South Carolinian,
| one Alabaman, one Idahoite, one Georg|
ian. one New Mexican, one South Dako- |.
tan, one Kansan, one vermonter ana one *
Texan combined, thirteen state-representing
Americans contributing altogether
less than the per capita contributed by
the Washingtonian alone.
The Washingtonian contributes to these
national taxes 51 times as much as the
Mississippian, 22 times as much as the
North Dakotan, about 18 times as much
as the South Carolinian and Alabaman,
about 14 times as much as the Georgian
and South Dakotan, about 12 times as
much as the Kansan, over 8 Vz times as
much as the Vermonter and over 7%
times as much as the Texan.
He contributes somewhat more than y'
the citizen of Louisiana, Michigan, Dela- a
ware and Massachusetts, and somewhat |r
less than the citizen of Virginia, Missouri.
Pennsylvania and California.
d;
In the Matter of Mendicancy. u
v . a
The figures above given concerning 0
national taxation throw light upon the fi
question whether the average congress- t<
man's average constituent is really rob- 81
bed, #as so often alleged, to ease the f?
tax burdens of the mendicants residing h
in the District of Columbia, and are J*
a fair offset to the statistical table, Jj('
which brings home to -each citizen of o
a state a speqiflc donation of beggar's si
alms to the capital. w
It aD?ears that the contribution of ?
such constituent to the national rev- VI
enue is often infinitesimal, and, in the w
cases cited, far exceeded by the contrl- a!
button of the Washingtonian himself, b
While the District has no representation
In the national legislature which
is paid from and which disburses this 'c<
national fund, its contribution exceeds d:
the combined contributions of Vermont,'d:
Mississippi. North Dakota, Nevada, b'
Wvoniing. Idaho, New Mexico, Arizona h
and South Dakota, which cast eighteen tl
' votes in the Senate and twenty-two in rr
the House. The Washingtonian pays o:
into the fund from which are drawn the b
salaries of the South Dakotan's sen- b;
ators and representatives^ more than
thirteen iimco ** <> Nucdim revenue
taxation as the South Dakotan;
toward the salary of the Kansas congressman,
12 times as much as the
Kansan; for the Texan congressman, 7 II
times as much as the Texan; for the ?
Vermont congressman, 8 times as much
as the Vermonter; for the congressman "
from South Carolina. 18 times as much fi
as the South Carolinian; and for the It
Mississippi congressman. SI times as It
much as the Mlssissipplan. It
Is not Intended In presenting these
figures to suggest that the states or
citizens contributing the most per capita
to the Internal revenue tax or other
national taxes should on that account
have any weightier voting power In
respect to the disposition of the national
revenues than those states and '
those citizens whose contributions to
the national taxes are, comparatively
speaking. Infinitesimal, and it is not
Intended to dlscredtt in any way the
small contributors to the national
taxes or even to argue In denial of the
letter's claim that it Is mora virtuous
not to contribute than to contribute to
Internal revenue taxes derived so
largely from whisky, beer and tobapoo.
The sole purpose Is to convince the representatives
of small contributing constituencies
in the states ' that they
y ,
gljjljj
? ?" " T^vj1 r?A
^ ^ ^
; \ S ', ,.
y
fHE PARAMOUNT ISSUE.
lould not berate their National Capal
constituents (whose legislative invests
are intrusted to their care by
le Constitution), on the ground that
le latter are untaxed mendicants suported
by the tax money unjustly
rawn from their local constituents;
rst, because in so many cases these
intributions by their constituents to
le national taxes are infinitesimal, far
as than those made by the District
self; second, because the'District, in:ead
of being untaxed, is reasonably,
rid. owing to the peculiar local conItions,
even heavily taxed both in
municipal and In national taxation.
In developing the natloh's city the
rashingtonians are .b|r>far the largest
ontributors among Americans. They
brttrlbute on both the local and the
ational side of the account. They pay
ne-half the expense as local taxpayrs;
they are heavy contributors to the
ustoms duties and internal revenue
axes from which the national funds
re derived that meet "the other half,
'hey are the only Americans who have
bsolutely nothing to say authoritativeV
concerning the disposition of the
unds to which they are such large
ontributors.
On the other hand, in the expenditure
f the-national money to which the Disrict
contributes oh equal terms the
fnited States has in many respects
ailed to be equitable toward the capLai.
It has for national purposes disributed
money and-land (which were
s much the property of the people of
he capital as of any other Americans)
mong the states and territories and
grnored entirely the national District,
'hese donations include 186,524,723
cres of public lands and more than
106,000,000.
1AIR CAUGHT IN MOTOR,
MISS WEED0N INJURED
Virginia Young Woman, Rescued
From Drowning, Meets With Ac
cidcnt on Way to Hospital.
Miss Virginia Weedon, daughter of
[rs. Hood Weedon of Occoquan, Va., lies
t George Washington University Hospital
i a dangerous condition, as the result of
n accident on the Potomac river yesteray
in which her hair became entangled
1 \ne .driving shaft of a propeller of ;
motor boat and her scalp was torn
Pf. Miss Weedon had Just been rescued 1
om drowning, and was being rushed 1
> shore in the motor boat When the j
^alping accident occurred. *"
Dr. Oharles Stanley White, who per- .
>rmed an operation on Miss Weedon's '
ead when she was brought to Washlgton,
said today at the hospital that
e thinks the young woman will re- {
aver. She was bathing in the river off
ccoquan with a party of friends, when
he swam out beyond her depth and ;
as rescued from drowning by several
lembers of her party and others near- ;
y in a motor boat belonging to Fred
foodyard of Occoquan. Miss Weedon
as then in an exhausted condition,
nd was laid in the bottom of the motor
oat, as Mr. Woodyard steered for
hore.
Miss Weedon's hair, whieh had beome
unbound during her rescue tsiom
rowning, became entangled in the
riving shaft of the propeller of the
oat. while Mr. Woodyard was giving
Is attention to the management of
le boat, and before he could stop the
lotor Miss Weedon's scalp was torn
(T and much of her hair was torn out
y the roots. She was immediately
rought to the Washington hospital.
To Discos* Print Paper Problem.
CHARLOTTE. N. C;. August 14.?Pubshers
and business managers of
torning and afternoon newspapers of
forth Carolina will meet in Joint con
iff to discuss the white paper probim.
...
! ' ' I
DAY IK COITGRESS.
Senates
Met at noon.
Resumed debate on ship purchase
bill.
Senator Penrose submitted
resolutions of Inquiry into appointments
of government employes
outstep the civil service.
Bill to appropriate (200,006 for*
West Virginia nood sufferers In.
traduced by Senator Chilton.
Not In sesalosfl meets tomorrow. ,
f ' '' \ V1
"vj 1 . . ' ' . >.'
r
?
-- /
I
^ ""
-*
ITALIANS KEEP UP
VIGOROUS ATTACKS
1 ' 4
Continue to Drive Austrian*
Back, Rome Reports, Taking
Many Prisoners.
ROME, August 14, via London, 2:11
p.m.?Italian troops continued yesterday
pressing the Austrians back on
the Carso plateau, an# east of Hill 212
pierced another strong line of hostile
intrenchments.
About 800 prisoners were captured
by the Italians, says the Official announcement
of this operation.
Austrians Shell Oorizia.
"In the Gorizia area artillery duels
took place," the statement says. "The
enemy's batteries shelled the town and
bridges over the Isonzo.
"On the remainder of the front small
but sharp encounters took place on the
slopes of Forame, at the head of the
Costeana valley, on the Boite, and on
the slopes of Monte Civarone, in the I
Susrana valley. The enemv a.-a- ? ?._ I
pulsed everywhere, and left about
fifty prisoners in our hands. Hostile
batteries bombarded villages in the
Upper Chiarzo and Cordevole valleys.
They were silenced by our artillery.
"Last night hostile aircraft dropped
bombs on Monfalcone and -other places
on the lower Isonzo. No damage nor
casualties have been reported."
Austri&n& Resist Fiercely.
Although public attention is centered
In the fighting along the lower Isonzo,
Important encounters are in progress
elsewhere along the front. The Itallaas
are meeting with fierce resistance,
and in several sectors the Austrians
are launching heavy attacks, presumably
in an attempt to divert the efforts
of the Italians from the Monfalcone
and Go^izia operations.
In the vicinity of Tolmino, north of
5orizia, the fighting is particularly
severe. .According to reports reaching
Rome, the number of Austrian dead or
wounded is said* to be very large. The
Italians also have taken prisoners in
this area.
Austrians Claim Many Prisoners.
BERLIN, August 14, by wireless to
Sayville.?The most severe fighting is
In progi^ess on the heights east of
Sorizia, says the official Austrian an- >
nouncement of Sunday. Seven times the
Italians stormed the heights and were
repulsed with heavy losses. The Austrians
have captured 5,000 Italians
since the inauguration of the new offensive.
,
"The Italians again advanced with
strong forces against our new fio.??. i
between the sea and Monte San <
Sabriele," says the statement. "In the i
district east of the Vallone vallev our <
troops repulsed several attacks.
"The most violent lighting: took place
on the heights east of Gorixia, where
seven charges of the enemy - failed with
the heaviest losses."
WANTS~COMPL^TE INQUIRY.
typographic*! Union President
Talks of Increased Cost of Paper.
BALTIMORE, Md.. August 14.?
'Something more substantial than a
perfunctory Investigation" of the increased
cost of white paper was demanded.
in the*annual report of Presilent
Marsden G. Scott, made to the International
Typographical Union contention
today.
'Tiaihe price of paper is not kept
low said Mr. Scott, "there will he a
railing away in printed matter that,will
force on the unemployed list .thousands
of those engaged in the printing
industry."
Gov. E. C. Harrington extended the
official welcome of the state of Marytarto"
to the "convention. 4
BIG NAVAL PROGRAM
IS EXPECTEDIO PASS
Rouse Likely to Vote Concurrence
in Senate Amendment.
KITCHINT0 STAND PAT
AND REGISTER AGAINST
Republicans to Favor Measure as
OaI.'m. T - I J i.J T?
xuucy xiung nayouikcu?rciwnnel
Initiation Hay Canto
Discussion.
Chances are bright for adoption
of the administration's big
naval program - when Chairman
Padgett of the House naval affairs
committee moves tomorrow
that the House shall concur in the
Senate amendments to the building
program.
It is assumed that the conferees between
the two houses could agree on the
naval program for 1917. Owing to the desire
of members of the House to record
their votes on the subject, the item will
be left in a parliamentary stage where
a vote on that particular and important
item may be called for.
One feature of the vote tomorrow, it
is expected, will be the negative vote tc
be cast by Representative Kitchln, the
floor leader of the House. It is expected
that his opposition will not take the form
of an active fight, but he will express
himself on the subject of building programs.
and will vote "No."
Kitchin to Vote Contra.
Representative Kitchin believes now, at
he has always believed, that the naval
building programs are too large. The
Senate increases, he declares, "are stupendous."
.
If they are in the Capitol, Representatives
Buchanan of Illinois, Gray of Indiana,
Hensley of Missouri and Bailey ol
Pennsylvania will be in the van jpt the
oiiia.il navj mciuvciD awu eiiucuvor u
defeat the concurrence of the House ir
the greatest item for building battleship*
and dreadnaughts ever put through ar
American Congress. It is expected thai
all republican members of the House wlL
vote for the Senate increases, and wil
explain that for years they have been urging
just such a policy.
Personnel Hey Cense Debate.
Chairmen Padgett will alao'eek for i
vote on the provisions for taeteeaed eh
listed Strength. The personnel legleln
tlon, agreed upon by,the conferee* thr?<
dfeye .ago, will dottle in fof a sharp light
probably, from some of the mem ben
who believe that the bill creates toe
many high officers for the navy.
When the bill left the House it provided
for the constryction of live battle
cruisers, and no battleships., The Senate
increased the capital ships to four battleships
and> four battle cruisers, to be
constructed immediately.
The Senate increased the bill furthei
so that the program now calls for a
three-year schedule, on which are te*i
first class battleships, six battle cruisers,
ten scout cruisers, fifty torpedo boal
destroyers, nine fleet submarines, fiftyeight
coast submarines, three fuel ships,
one repair ship, one transport, one hospital
ship, fwo ammunition ships and
several minor boats of the class of tenders,
etc.
TORN FOR THE BETTER
IN NEW YORK EPIDEMIC
Number of Cases in 24-Hour Period
Below 100, First Time in
TXT 1__ '
W Ct&B.
NEW YORK. August 14.?The epidemic
of infantile paralysis took a turr
for the better today. The number oi
new cases reported to the health department
went under the hundred mark
far the first time in several weeks,
During: the twenty-four hours ending
at 10 a.m. the plague killed thirty-one
children and-ninety-five new cases were
reported, forty-three of them in Manhattan
and thirty-one in Brooklyn. Thin
compares favorably with yesterday's
figures, when there were 141 new casee
and twenty-two fatalities. The falling
off in cases was attributed to the cooler
weather.
Physicians Equipped With Serum.
Physicians employed by the health
department to investigate reported
cases of infantile paralysis hereafter
will be equipped with serum made from
the blood of persons who have recovered
from the disease, so that in every
true case an injection may be made at
once, before the patient is removed to
a hospital.
This action has been decided upon by
the health department because the best
results of the serum have been obtainm}
in cases where the disease was in
the premonitory stages, when the
symptoms, mainly are high fever and
restlessness and before paralysis has
ieveloped.
Physicians engaged in field work have
t>een instructed to watch closely the
??>iop *>ViU?tren in the familv on* m*m_
t>er of which has been stricken, and
tq treat thom with the serum at the
first appearance of a symptbm of the
lisease.
Detention of Excursionists.
Many excursionists who came here
yesterday from nearby cities and towns
were obliged to remain over,night bemuse
they had not been forewarned of
he federal health service regulations
requiring all children under sixteen
rears of age who enter the city to
>btaln health certificates before leaving
he state.
The constitutionality of a quarantine
regulation prohibiting children from
rt tending church services at FreeporX
S. Y.. Will be tested ini the supreme
jourt as.the .result of .a conflict yesterlay
between the Members ft. the Cathode
Church there and policeman stationed'
by the'board of hedlfh in front
jf the church to wirn' chllwen' dira*.
AS LAST RESORT,
PRESIDENT TO BE
STRIKE ARBITRATOR
?/?
He Is Ready, if Necessary, to
Sit in Judgment in Railway
Controversy.
CONFERS AT WHITE HOUSE
WITH MEN AND OPERATORS
Employes and Government Officials
Hopefnl National Calamity
Will Be Averted.
SITUATION MOBE ENCOUB AGING
Chief Magistrate Understood to Be
Determined That Hallway Cars
Will Movd to Carry Hails
and Food.
President Wilson, in person, will
i act as arbitrator to prevent the
1 strike that threatens to tie up
! completely all railroads of the
United States, and which is of
^ international import, as it would
i prevent shipment of munitions
1 to the warring nations of Eui
rope, if this is necessary as a last
resort.
This was learned from an
authoritative source at the very
i hour that the President was in
> conference with a delegation of
twenty-eight brotherhood lead '
ers representing the 400,000 rail
f road employes who have voted
> to strike. While that confer1
ence was in progress a delega|
tion of nineteen officials repre[
senting the 225 railway system*
' comprising 1,700 railroads were
awaiting their turn * to present
t their side of the controversy
- direct to the President at 3
| o'clock this afternoon.
' Outlook Is Hopeful.
? One of tfie leaders of the four brother*
^ hoods, after leaving the White House,
characterized the conference with the
i President as "most encouraging," and dej
c la red "the outlook for the prevention of
' a general strike was hopeful."
A. B. Garretson. president of the Order
of Railroad Conductors, was asked wheth1
er the negotiations went'off. He replied:
1 "Absolutely not."
I While no ground for the feeling was
given, administration officials expressed
, confidence that the President's interveii
tion would result in averting a strike.
1 The President, it was said, submitted no
counter proposition to the men, but he
held out hope for an adjustment by legislation,
if necessaryThe
impression prevailed among the
brotherhood leaders that as a last resort
the President might ask Congress for
eight-hour-day legislation.
TTie leaders explained to the President
I their stand against arbitration by saying
that they were carrying out the wishes of
I the 600 delegates who sat with them at
their meeting with the federal mediators.
The delegates, the President was told, tn
voting on whether they should accept or
mtzliofnr#1 nrnnoanl to arbitrate.
voted unanimously for rejection.
The brotherhood leaders presented to
the President detailed reports of the vote
cast in favor of a general strike.
The two delegations came to Washington
on a midnight train, immediately
upon receiving an invitation from President
Wilson to visit him, when the Pres
ident had been informed by the United
t States board of mediation and conciliation
/ that there was no other hope of averting
a nation-wide strike, which would para
lyze all the business ot the country. This
invitation was sent to New York by the
President, his own private secretary, Joseph
P. Tumulty, bearing it as an evi'
dence of the intense interest of the Presi
ident in this crisis.
Arrangements for the two delegations
to visi^ the White House at different
hours were made by Commisi
sioner William L. Chambers of the federal
board of mediation and conciliation.
The brotherhood officials were
1 heard first, as the proposals for an
eight-hour day and time-and-a-half
overtime originated with them.
The President is holding long conferences
with both these delegations today.
He had previously conferred for
nearly an hour with Judge Chambers,
chairman of the board of mediation and
conciliation, and received from him a
i complete record qI all that has been
done so far in the effort to avert the
strike.
Willing to Act as Arbitrator. 1
The President is willing to act as ar<
bltrator in this crisis. The railroad officials
have already proposed, through
the federal board of mediation and conciliation,
to accept almost any form of
arbitration. From the conference of
brotherhood leaders today it leaked out
that the employes were prepared to tell
the President they will accept arbitraticm
oniy if he will be the arbitrator.
The President is today acting as voluntary
mediator?in the interests of the
people of the United States and to pre
vent paralysauon or Dusineas?Detween
the 400,000 employes engraved in the
movement of trains as represented by
four big brotherhoods, and the 1,700
railroads, as represented by the national
conference committee of the railroads,
with a personnel of nineteen officials.
The strike, which threatens to
plunge this country into the greatest
industrial strife that this country
has ever known, was taken to the
White House today when A. B. (Jarre
tson. president of the Order of Railroad
Conductors, said just before go-'
Ing into the conference with the
President that the deadlock between
the railroads and their employes
"means a strike unices the President
can find some way out"
Attitude of the Government.
The answer of the government wee
similar to that famous reply oaoe
made under somewhat slmtlamcircumstances
by President ClevelAd?that
