ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDEN T PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
8 PACKS , PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, AUGUST 14, lOlo'
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 88
in i
i m
n
IT
THE
OHLY CAN AVERT HG RJULROAD STi
mm
Entente. Allies Gaining In Three" RegioQmMX ALL RAILROADS
HARD Fine
AND IRE CIS
FOR THE ALLIES
i Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Hard fiohtinri in the Somme region
of France, in Galicia and in the
Italian theater, with further qains
for the entente allies in all three
reqiona, marked the operations of
Saturday niaht and Sunday.
Northwest of Pozieres north of the
Somme, tho British made an advance
of from 300 to 400 yards over s
front of nearly a mile against the
Germans and also captured trenches
on the plateau northwest of Bazen-tin-Le-Petit,
while the French south
east of Maurepas gained a further
foothold on the slopes of Hill No. 109.
Between Thiepval and the Somme
Saturday night, according to Berlin,
Assaults by the entente allies broke
down with henvy casualties to the
attackers. The fighting near Hem
and Maurepas continued throughout
the entire night and into Sunday,
the men repeatedly coming to grips
in the hand to hand encounters.
Mariampol. in Galicia, seven mile
southeast of Halicz, the town of
Podg:-cy and several villages along
the upper Sareth river have fallen
into tho Hands of the Russians.
On the byntritia sector and near
Mrnsterryska, however, Berlin says
the Russians have been thrown back
at several places by the counter at
tsr.Ws of the Teutonic allies.
The DuVc of Aosta is keeping up
his stronq offensive against the Aus
trans in the lonzo reqion, havinq
driven them from fortified positions
in the Monfr.lione and Gorizia sectors
and taken prisoner more than 2,000
adHiit3nal men.
Constantinople reports that the
Turks east pf the Suez canal have
APPROPRIATION:
BREAK RECORDS
. . : n
I
BRITISH FORCES ARE I
DRIVING TURKS BACK I ,
l.ONTHN, Aug.. 13. British
forces in F-gypt aro still driving I
hack tlx- Turks who were defeat- I
ed in tho recent battle east of the !
Suez ca'nal. The following an- I
nnr.ncement in regard to this i
I campaign was given out here to- I
I day: "Our cavalry is still In I
I pursuit of the Turkish rear I
! ganrd and yesterday evening had
! driven hack the Turns to a posl
I tion east of Hirs-al-Mance. Al
i t hunch no materials or stores
I v.erefound at Hirs-el-Abad there
! were large heaps of ashes In the
vicinity of the abandoned Turk-
I ish position."
n :
1200,010,009 IS
BIT OF THE
E BILL
FEflSI OF
BRITISH GOES
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH TI1K PKITISH ARM1KS IN
FIIANCK. August 12 (via I,ondon.
August 13). Anyone who might think
from reading the irlt lull official re
ports that the British offensive Is over,
would soon conclude from the unceas
ing gunfire. If he went out on the field,
that a terrific battle was still in progress.
No one that the Associated Press
correspondent meets' at the front
thinks that the offensive is over, or
Advancing on the Somme
IX3NIKN, August 13. An important
advance on the Homme front north
west of f'nzieres was announced today
by the war office. The British 'pushed
forward their lines 3f0 & 400 yards,
over a front of nearly a nmt.
Lloyd's reports tlie sinklnK f the
Russian steamship Kovda, 1.225 tons
gross, and of the small Italian sailing
vessels Iyorenzo Donato and Han An
tonio. The advance of a wide encircling
movement by the British and Ilclgian
forces in fierman Kat Africa is re
ported in the war office statement is
sued today. The statement rea'ds:
"The forces under General Smuts be
gan a simultaneous forward movement
August 5. A strong mounted force
under Brigadier-General Knslin under
took a wide encircling movement north
and northwest of the Nguru moun
tains After traversing the center
mountains, General Knslin's troops
emerged on August 8. at Mhonda mis
sion, between the mountains and the
Kanca hills overlooking the Mdjonga
valley, completing an arduous march
i( 'ontinuerj on
turned aqatnst the British and eom-j that anything but winter will stop It.
pelled tem to retreat with heavy j Thi,uh- r viHaw' or- considerable
losses. The London war office, how -1 frontage of trenches has been stormed
ever, disputed this statement, assert- j in the last few days, every day has
inq that the British cavalry is still in' found some strong point taken and
pursuit of tne Turkish rear guard j some new spur of trenches thrown out
which Saturday evening had been! in the course of the same kind of op
driven to a position east of Birs-el-! crations which followed and preceded
Mines. each big blow.
After a lonq period of inactivity, i "The question this week." said a
the British alonq the Euohrats in staff officer, "is whether our guns have
Mfso,o?omia attempted an advance killed more Germans than their guns
aaainst the Turks but retreated after have killed of us, and we know that
two hours' fiqhtirq. Further ad- I the odds are in our favor, at least two,
vances for the Turks aqainst the if not three, to one."
Russians on the Persian front and in! For six weeks the British have main
Turkish Armenia also are claimed by tained a torrent shell fire which tier
Constantinople, man prisoners who have been at Ver
non, say surpasses anything they en
dured there; while at the munitions
depots the piles of shells seem as
plentiful as the day before the grand
offensive began. It has been a week
all to the taste of the gunners.
They have had such an advantage of
position over the Germans us they nev
er had before, thanks to the possession
cf the Pozicres ridge, which was
crowned by a windmill at the highest
point, the wooden structure of which
j long since has been blown to splinters
I by shell fire and its stone base cracked
I into bits. Incalculable and inconceiv
able, is the amount of shell fire spent
on this ridge, whose Irregular sky-line
is ever changing as a result of the
pommeling, but the British keep their
domination by tactics and methods of
fortifications not permitted to be
mentioned here.
The Australians described the latest
German counter attack, which was
made last night, as comical If the re
sult had not been so tragic for -the two
battalions which made it. Apparently
the Germans were mostly recruits.
When assembling for the attack they
werecaught by British howitzer fire,
(Continued on Tags Two)
Page Two) I
iww I mini UIIILU Ul I UII1UL.U IIIIU
GEN. VON R0T1ER RETREATING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Pt,TKOORAD. Aug. 14 (Via London).!
The Austrian lines along the "'ripa.
which they have held since car'. in
September, have crumbled, and Gen
eral von Bothmer is in full retreat
along the whoe front, according to the
latest information received by the Rus
sian general staff.
General I-etchltsky Is advancing in
the rear of Von Bothmer's rlnht flank,
while General Schci batchoff is closing
In on his left. The Austrian com
mander Is apparently making an at
tempt to escape the Russian trap by
taking up a position' on a line running
through Zlochoff, Pomorzany, Breze
Jsany to Halicz, roughly twenty miles
to the west of his old lines before
Tarnopol and Buczacx.
It Is stated semi -officially that the
Aiistrians evacuated the Stripa line
without a battle. Their success in
reach ins; and holdin- their new posi
tions is considered problematical. It
Is pointed out that tho strength of
General Letchitzky's position on both
sides of the Onieater below Halicz
makes It extremely unlikely that the
. Austrian will be able to hold that
town. Their failure to hold Hullcz
would render their new line little more
advantageous than the position on the
HtrliMt, and General I.etchitzky still
would be hanging on the right flank.
The Russians have successfully nego
tiated the last natural obstacle be
tween them and Halicz, namely the
Kystritza river, which empties Into the
Lmlester eight miles to the south. Gen
eral Seherbatchoff hs already thrown
a large force across tiie Zlota Upa, ap
proaching Halicz from the southeast.
The occupation of Yezerno. on the
Tarnpol-U'mberg railroad, and a group
of towns to the south of that point.
threaten Von Bothmer s communica
tions with the Austro-Gernian armies
defending Lcrnherg on the Brody line
and appears to have been the last
blow to the defense of the Stripa.
The capture of Nadvorna strengthens
the left wing of General Lctchltzky and
completes the isolation of the Aus
trian army In southern Galicia. The
Austrlans were endeavoring to reor
ganize this army for the defense of
the I'ruth.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
WASHINGTON, August 13. The j
Importance of the 1200,000.000 revenue j
bill on which senate democrats today i
devoted many hours of deliberation in !
caucus, is being impressed upon lead
ers by the fact that appropriations of
the session now nearing completion
have broken all records.
W ith passage this week of the $!A
000.000 ship purchase bill and proliablo
approval by the bouse of tho senate's
gigantic naval bill, the appropriations
for the sixty-fourth congress have ex
ceeded the previous high record by at
least a half billion dollars.
While exact figures cannot be com
puted until the gavel has fallen on the
last supply bill of the wnniiii, the ag
gregate appropriation by congress for
all purposes probably., will approxi
mate $1,700,000,000, aVagalnst $1,114.
000.000 fo rthe sixty-third congress.
Besides regular supply bills which
total as they now stand. $l,3Si.2i'(i..o,
congress will have added H'hen the
shipping bill is approved, more than
!0,ou0,000 for special purposes. There
also have been contract authorizations
amounting to about $207.ou(i,(io0. all of
which would bring the grand aggre
gate to tl.tiso. UOO.oijo, with the uncer
tain general deficiency appropriation
bill still In the making to be added at
the end of the session.
ISpeclal appropriations Include $20-
ooo.oiio for A government nitrate plant;
$fi.00,ft0O for K'iod roads: $15,000,000
for rural credits and $:,0,10.000 for
the government shipping project. Gen
eral supply bills that enter Into the
session's total are as follows:
I'ostoffice, $:S23.2o,577; navy, yet to
be approved, $315,S2fi.S43: array, $-'i",-r.7,oiO:
pensions $l."i8.0ti0.000; sundry
civil, $12s.3!"i,4t": rivers and harbors,
$42.SG.0i"; legislative, executive and
Judicial $37.:i2.",f;:iii; army and navy
and other urgent deficiencies, $:tl.012.
07:; agriculture, $27.00.0i; fortifica
tions. $2r,74x,oriO; District of Colum
bia, yet to be approved, about $13,000,
000; Indian affairs. $10.!iti7.644; diplo
matic and consular $',3.'5,0U6 and mili
tary academy. $1.22".043.
With President Wilson and a ma
jority of the party leaders . urgently
supporting the senate's naval building
and jiersfinnel increases, it Is believed
the house will agree to them after ad
vocates of a small navy have made
their last fight. In anticipation of a
close vote every absent representative
was notified more than a week ago of
the approaching contest which will
mark the climax of the national de
fense camiuilgn this week.
Appropriations for preparedness
alone will aggregate approximately
$tj40.000,ooo, utiles unexpected devel
opments should force a reduction In
the naval program. ' While the house
this week is bringing defense legisla
tion to a close, the senate will pass the
ship bill, workmen's comensatlon bill,
and conference reports preparatory for
the .revenue bill on which a stubborn
political assault wit be waged by the
republicans.
When the amended revenue bill gets
through conference it is expected con
gress will be ready to adjourn. Lead
ers of both parties are. hoping adjourn
ment will come by September 1,
o
CLOUDBURST IN COLORADO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ITKBI-ri Colo., Aug.. IS. A cloud-
i burnt near Kockvalc. above Florence,
turned two dry creeks- Into rivers
this afternoon, damaging two bridges
nn( the Santa He brunch lllne and one
on' the main line of the lienver natnl
Rio Grande. Traffic over the latter
I line was suspended until 10 o'clock
1 tonight. Houses and yards were
j I'aniaged in Florence by the water
' which flooded one section of the city.
n r,.
! SEVENTEEN INJURED IN
SWITCH ENGINE CRASH
F.I t PASO. Texas. Aug., 13.
Seventeen persons were Injured,
none of them dangerously, last
night when a switli engine cranh
(d into westfound Texan and Pa
cific passenger train No. 5. on
the outskirts of Kl Paso, accord
ing . to complete report today.
The passenger train was travel
ing at about twenty miles an hour
when the switch engine backed
from a siding on the main path
directly in llH iKtth. Both engines
were demolished. The 111 lured I
were taken- to local hospitals
where it wis said tonight, all I
vere recovering.
Q
T
N
STiiffi LICENSE
TAX PROPOSED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Aug. 13. A cor
poration ftock license tax to raise ap
proximately $20,1100,001), eliminated of
most of the objectionable stamif taxes
which once had been accepted and ap
proved, with an amendment, of the
proposed net profit tax on munitions
manufactures were determined upon
by the democratic senate caucus to
night after a five-hour debate on the
revenue hilb
Southern and western senators made
a bittei ssault upon the finance com
mittee amendment which proposed a
ten per cent tax on the new profits of
manufacturers of materials used a
comiS'iient parts of munitions of war.
It was insisted that It would result In
OF NATION MAY BE TIED UP
IF WILSON'S EFFORTS FAIL
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
NEW YORK, Aug. 13. A general strike on virtually all the rail
roads of the nation, paralyzing commerce and throwing approximately
2,000,000 men mit of employment, can be averted only through the good
offices of President Wilson, as a result of today's, developments in the
dispute over the men's demands for an eight-hour day and time and a half
for overtime. "
The controversy was laid before the president, at his invitation, after
the workers had flatly rejected any form of arbitration. They refused
mediation yesterday.
Soon after accepting the president's summons, extended through the
federal board of mediation and conciliation, the men announced that the
leaders of the four railroad brotherhoods would leave for Washington at
midnight, accompanied by thirty of the six hundred delegates assembled
here.
An hour later the railroad managers, nineteen in number, said that
they would leave for the capitol at the same time.
Both parties will reach Washington tomorrow in time for an early con
ference with the president. The hour for the meeting will be arranged by
Secretary Tumulty who started for this city from Washington late today
as Mr. Wilson's representative, arriving here at 9 o'clock tonight.
M r.
r
TlintllllV hrnnpKl ,,-i.K V. I
communication from President Wil-1 arbitration
urn addressed to brotherhoods and I
the railroad managers pointing out
that r.uch a paralysis of business as
would follow a general railroad strike
would lie a celastropLe nt any time,
tut wotrid be nothing short of a
llsaster under present conditions. On
this ground the president based his
rnqpeM for a conference with rep
resentatives of both frictions iMfore a
rtril.c onler is IsMied by the leaders
of the men.
Negotiations had not been broken
, i, fin. iiooiiitv ii'n u asti-
a heavy tax on cotton and copper en- j !"k'toii bu w hen ho reiched Phila-
tcring Into the manufacture of muni- ,l.':,1f ' 'V,..""''' " '"''"P"' f,r"m
, i . 1- ( bambers. one of the mediators,
tlons. informing him the men had declined
As approvea. tne section relating in to arbitrate. .Mr Tumultvs first -ten J . " V " ""'
munitions provides that a net profit . after reaching New York' was to call T , " " lie represen ativea of the
because insisted on ar
bitrating Iheir contingent proposi
tion. The board of mediators, in a
statement issued tonight declared,
howeer. th:t the men rejected their
prowifutiou contending that they
would nit arbitrate even If the rail
roads waived the contingent proposi-
i tion.
! The siafrment of the mediators, is
! sued bv Jndse Mnrtin A. Knapp,
chairman of the board, just liefore
their departure for Washington, fol
lows: After repented efforts to bring
aNmt an arbitration of the pending
controversy between the railroad-:
and their employs in train and yard
porvice the I'nited States board of
'deiUon and conciliation was today
tax or ten per ceni nc levied uMn t i'residetit Wilson on the long dis
manufacturers or all munitions or war : lance telephone to decide noon an
and that a five cr cent tax be levied j pour for the conference at the White
on manufacturers of materials which houe tomorrow.
The final oreaW came late today
after the men had lieen in secret
session nearly six hours. Heports
differ as to ihe reason for the fail
ure of the ' negotiations in view of
enter into such munitions. 1 tie esti
mated loss of revenue due to the five
per cent reduction will le about
$."1,000,000.
To make up for this decrea.se 'and
also to make possible elimination of
proiMiseu stamp laxes, against wnicn a j fnr.
fierce storm waa gathering not only in j
the caucus but in the house. Senator
the matters in dispute to arbitration
in any form.
"'1 lie employes further stated to
the board tlrtt they would not arbi
trate their own demands even if the
contingent demands of the railroads
were withdrawn, and also declined
to oi!gest any other plan or "-mod
r a peaceful settlement of tho con-
the. cheerfi:! outlook of the night b- troversv
Thg P1" ll8ert...tyy refused They were informed that their de
the caucus hut In the nouse, senator y v -r r A f-r-r a -w .
.-rrs ziT0XA WA Y DAM BREAKS
stock, undivided profits and surplws of ' ' "" "" kfi..-JL IXlU
MORE TROOPS TO BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DKWKIt, Aug., 13. Preparations
for tlie movement of. members of the
I'olorark) national guard to the Mex
ican border were begifti today follow
ing receipt of war orders by Adjutant
General rinmblc. At the state rifle
range it was stated that troops
would probably begin entraining to
morrow. The Colorado guard con
stats of 1,11 officers and men.
Farm Loan Board Plans
Thirteen Public Hearings
fRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, August 13. Dates
and places were announced here to
night for the first thirteen hearings to
be held by the farm loun board for
compiling Information on which It will fOregon ' and
nrvioe ine country into twelve farm
loan districts under the new rural
credits law.
The Itinerary, so far tin worked out
with the dates of hearings follow:
Augusta, Maine, August 21; Con
cord, N. H August 22; Hartford,
Conn., August 23; Sprlngfieid, Iiass
August 23; I'tica, N. Y., Augtist Z4;
Ijuislng, Mich., August 25; Madison,
Wis., August 26; Ue8 Moines, Iowa,
August 28; Sioux Falls, S. P., August
30; St. Paul. Minn., August 31 r Fargo,
N. I., September 1; Helena. Mont.,
September 2, and Spokane, Wa!h.( Sep
tember 4.
From , Spokane the board will go to
California, ana return
across the central pan oi me con
tinent. Later a .trip will be taken
through the south.
The hearings will be public and far
mers and farmers' organizations will
be Invited to appeajr before the board
and submit Information which they
think will assist the board In solving
the Important problem of determining
the boundaries of the districts and lo
cating ,he federal Jun panks.
all corporations. $100,000 of the slock
of each corporation to be exempted.
The proposal wn seized upon by all j
the senators present at once and In
corporated into an amendment which
was unanimously approved. The tax
would m v' to all corporations in
cluding I)h:.'ks, having capital and sur
plus In excess of $100,000.
In perfecting the income tax section
the caucus agreed to an amendment
adjusting the Increased surtaxes on
incomes in excess of $.'00,000, as fol
lows: r
On net income exceeding $500,000
but not exceeding $1,000,000, a tax of
10 per cent; exceeding $1,000,000 but
not exceeding 1.F00.000, eleven per
rent; exceeding $l,r.0fl,000, but not ex
ceeding $2,000,000, twelve per cent; ex- j
ceeding $2,000,000, thirteen per cent.
The caucus was the first to meet on
Sunday within the memory of any
senate member.
The caucus which remained in ses
sion until late tonight, qualified the
stock license tax so that it would not
apply to munitions corporations taxed
under the' munitions section. The
caucus failed to report on what stamp
laxes should be retained.
Senator Underwood announced to
night he would make a vigorous fight
on the dyestuffs tariff proposed in the
li t II. on the ground that It is undemo
cratic. He also expects to fight tho
tariff commission proposal.
(j .
Hughes Spends
Sunday Resting
From Activities
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SI'OKANK, Wash., Aug. 13. Charles
K. Hughes spefit today here quietly,
resting from the activities of the past
seven days and preparing for the sec
ond week of his campaign.
This will open tomorrow with a
twenty-five-mile motor trip to t'oeur
d'Alene. Idaho, where Mr. Hughes is
to speak at 11 a.m. The nominee will
return after luncheon to Spokane,
where there will be an afternoon and a
ASHEVILLE. N. C-, Aug.. 13. The oreat Ham at Lake Toxawav,
weakened by the recent floods, broVe this evening sending a great wall
of water down the valley toward Western South Carolina. No lives
had aeen reported lost lata tonioht anW- warning. 1,-1. ...., u
most persons in the path of the flood to reach safety,
lake, an artificial bodv of wnater ,A.r;nn ..... . 1
average depth of thirty feet, was reported almost entirely drained. Tha
clam, an eighth of a mile lona and firty feet hioh. was completely de
stroyed. The town of Lake Toxaway suffered only minor Vantage.
The released waters tonight were rushing through the Toxaway riv
er va'ley. a comparatively uninhabitated section
enabled
The
ID
laiUf 1IUIII1
TTR
SOCIAL DiSGDNTENT
TED TO SOCIALISTS
He will leave here at
Tacoma, immediately
night meeting.
8:45 p.m. for
after speaking.
The second week of his campaign
will carry him as far as Los Angeles,
through Tacoma, Seattle, Portland and
San Francisco.
Mr. Hughes and his wife attended
the First Ilaptist church here today.
They went this afternoon for a long
motor ride through places of interest
nearby, ' .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
V:U PASO, Aug. 13. Reports of so
cial discontent in Mexico are con
tained in a coiy of JC1 Nacional, a,
( arrunza organ of Mexico City, w hich
reai lied here today. It suited that
Inst week General Benjamin Hill,
military commander of the federal
district, had covered tne city with
patrols to disperse gatherings of
striking employes of the electric
lighting and street railway company.
It added that several shots haa been
lired and that small riots had re
sulted. According to the paper, Carranza
met representatives of the Federation
f Syndicates, the organiaztion be
hind the strike, and informed them
that in his opinion, their action in
striking was unpatriotic. Social dis
content in Mexico was attibuted to
Hie influence of "socialist lalmr agi
tators.' Arrivals in El Faso from the
capitol today, however, said that the
food scarcity and lack of opportunity
for work arc important factors.
Private dispatches here from Chi
huahua Citv said that "tJeneral" J6so
Inez Salnzar, held there in connection
with alleged revolutionary plots, had
been executed by General Trevino.
There was no official confirmation,
however.
Rumors current In TCI Paso today
that the Carranza garrison in Juarez
contemplated an early revolt vvero
pronounced ridiculous by de facto
authorities.
Genernl officers of the national
guard contingents on station here re
ceived orders today to take stringent
steps to prevent soldiers and news
paper correspondents writing false
stories concerning tho militia troops
for publication. !fbcy were, instructed
to detail an officer to read the papers
from their home states regularlv and
report any maliciously false or mis
leading alkies. If the correspondent
responsible cannot prove his allega
tions lie will be refused the freedom
of the military reservations or be
tied by court martial.
The orders followed complaints
that some of the guardsmen and the
correspondents, who accompanied na
tional guard contingents to tlie bor
der, misrepresents facts in stories
sent to eastern newspapers.
cision would be at once made known
to President Wilson and also that
the president claimed the right to a
liersonal interview with both parties
liefore any drastic action was taken.
This request was of course, granted,
and a large delegation of employes
v.'ith a number of railroad managers
will be In Washingto nMonday for a
conference with the president
"Early in the negotiations the rail
roads had informed the board on
mediation .and conciliation that they
would accept arbitration."
The chief objection of the men to
arbitrating the railroad's contingent
proiKisition. lay in their contention
that the propcsal entailed the wiping
out of double compensation features
which the men have gained during
thirty years of effort. The railroads
have contended that double com
pensation, together with The demands
of the men. if granted, would In
crease the wages of many of their
emuloyef- mort than 100 per cent.
KUsha Lee. chairman of the confer-
nee committee of railroad managers,
declined to discuss the crisis other
than to say that the railroads had
proposed, 'first mediation, and then
arbitration, without success. He
Placed the responsibility for the utter
failure of the mediators upon the
men.
jn. P. Garretson, president of the
Order of Railway Conductors, the
official spokesman for the men, on
the other hand, placed the blame for
the break entirely upon the unbend
ing attitude of tlie railroads ;
When the mediators realized that '
further parley was useless, they ex
tended the president's invitation. The
men did not vote to accept the call
until nearly ! hours after it had been
received.
That the president may succeed in
bringing the opposing factions to
an agreemy.t as to the merits of
arbitration, was lnoicaiea o inr.
Gerretson's response to a question on
trfht point.
"I have no comment to make on
v.'hM the president may succeed in
accomplishing" Sse said. "Our do
teimina'ion ta reject arbitration was
due to the attitude of the railroad-'.
Indifference always breeds resistance.
And the railroads have been indiffer
ent to the demands of the men. Thet
have never made an honest effort to
effect a settlement. They have of
fered to mediate our demands without
offering to mediate anything in re
turn. Had they shown a disposition
to meet us half way, the situation
mitrht now be different."
President Garretson declared the
brotherhoods were prepared to be
just as firm as the railroads.
Secretary' Tumulty gave out to-!
night, the following message from
President Wilson to the chairman of
the conference committee of managers
and to the heads of the four railway
liroth' rhoods'
'I have learned with surprise and
(Continued on Page Two)
President To Make Urgent
Appeal For Settlement
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 13. resident 1
Wilson, deeply concerned over tha
possibility that a general strike may
tie up tlie country's railroads is pro
pared to make an insistent personal'
appeal for any amicable settlement
when the representatives of tho roads
and their employes confer with him
tomorrow at the While House.
Since the situation became threat
enbig, the president has been in close
toui h w ith developments and has
used every available agency of the
federal government to bring the two
factions together. He has taken no
stand on the merits of the contro
versy, however, and it is not expected
that he will do so nt the conference
tomorrow but will emphasize the far
reaching effect a strike would have
on the whole country.
The president bt said to feel that
regardless of Ihe points at issue a
way still can be found for settlement
without a strike and the disturbance
to other industries and inconvenience
th general public which would re
sult. ' ,
H.fvtral more petitions from railway
employes not members of the broth
erhood to do all in his power to
avert a strike were brought here to
night nnd will be delivered at 'the
White' House tomorrow. P. K. Wal
den of Chicago, acting on behalf of
the men employed by the Chicago
and Alton, brought one bearing 16,00
signatures and announced that 4,500
emoloyes of the Gulf, Colorado and
Santa Fe had forwarded a similar
