/resident Appeals to Railroad Managers and Men on Patriotic Grounds to Avert Strike
_HARRISBURG l|B§l|t TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 186
PROSPECTS FOR
STAYING STRIKE
ARE BRIGHTER
Show Improvement Following Conference of Thirty-Five
Brotherhood Chiefs With Wilson at White House;
Men Exhibit Disposition to Co-operate to Stay Trouble
MIGHT ASK CONGRESS FOR EIGHT-HOUR DAY
AS LAST RESORT TO STOP DISASTER
Outline Demands; Wilson May Head Arbitration Board of
Twelve Members; Anxious to Settle Difficulties at
Once and Offers to Stay in Continuous Conference
Washington, Aug. 14.—Prospects for averting a nation-wide
railway strike, or at least for the formulation for some tentative
program which will De the ground work for further negotiations,
brightened up to-day after President Wilson had conferred with
thirty-five chiefs of the great brotherhoods.
After the conference the brotherhood men declared the Presi
dent's grasp of the situation and the position of the men might re
sult in an understanding being reached, and others in touch with
the conference said the representatives of the men showed a dis
position to co-operate to avert a strike.
After hearing the leaders of the men two hours, the President
sent for the managers for a conference, at 3 o'clock this afternoon.
How far whatever progress made at the conference with the men
can go toward averting a break cannot be determined until after the
President confers with the managers' committee.
The President, according to those who attended the conference
showed a familiarity with the situation that surprised the men.
Holds Out Hope
"The President was most sympa
thetic," said one of the brotherhood
leaders, "and his surprising knowl
edge of the situation and of our posi
tion may result in an understanding
being reached."
The President, it was said, submit
ted no counter proposition to the
men, but he held out hope for an ad
justment by legislation if necessary.
The impression prevailed among the
brotherhood leaders that as a last re
sort the President might ask Congress
for an eight-hour day legislation.
The leaders explained to the Presi
dent their stand against arbitration by
saying that they were carrying out the
wishes of the 600 delegates who sat
with them at their meetings with the
federal mediators. The delegates, the
President was told, in voting on
whether they should accept or reject
the mediators' proposal to arbitrate,
voted unanimously for rejection.
Give Detailed Strike. Vote
The brotherhood leaders presented
to the President detailed reports of the
vote cast in favor of a general strike.
The discussion this morning, it was
learned, centered largely about the
possibility of reaching an agreement
on some form of arbitration and par
ticular attention was paid to the sub
jects to be arbitrated.
It was considered possible that a
tentative agreement would provide for
arbitration of the demands of the men
for an eight-hour day and for time
and half time with the elimination of
the counter proposals of the employ
ers.
The railroads have wanted to arbi
trate their counter proposals and that
the men resist. They were first in
clined to arbitrate their own demands,
but later indicated their disinclination
to arbitrate anything.
Shortly after 2:30 o'clock the man-
THE WEATHER,
For Harrlsburg and vicinity: Fulr,
continued cool to-nights Tucmlay
fulr with moderate temperature.
For Eustern Pennsylvania: Fair
and continued cool to-nlKlit;
Tuesday fair with modernte tem
perature; diminishing northwest
winds.
Klver
The Susquehanna river and all Its
tributaries will fall slowly or re
main stationary A stage of
about 3.1 feet IN Indicated tor
Harrlsburg Tuesday morning.
General Condition*
Showers have oci-urred generally In
the last twenty-four hours in'the
Atlantic Mates from Virginia to
South Carolina, inclusive; also in
Tennessee, the Gulf Mates, the
Missouri, Middle and Lower Mis
sissippi valleys. In the Rocky
Mountains and In Northern tull
foritiu. There were scattered
showers In I'ennsylvnul.i, South
ern New F.nKlnnd and In the l'p
per St. Lawrence Valley.
There has liecn u general fall of 2
to 18 degrees In temperature over
the eastern half of the country.
In the Northwestern States and
the "Western Canadian provinces
temperatures have risen 2 to 14
denrees as compared with the
readings of Saturday morning.
Temperature! 8 a. m.. 62.
Sunt Rises, sil« n. m.| sets, 7:03
p. m.
Mooni Rises, 7i30 p. m.
River Stage: 3.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 73.
Lowest temperature, 73.
Mean temperature, 80.
Normal temperature. 70.
VACATION SEASON IS AT
ITS HEIGHT
Reat and recreation will not bo
complete unless you have all the
news from home every day. Your
favorite newspaper, the Harris
burg Telegraph, will fill the bill.
Phone the Circulation Department
before you leave home. The next
issue will meet you, uo matter
where you go.
Six cents a week, postage pre
paid. .
BV CARBIKR* (I CEXTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
agers' committee at the conclusion of
a half liour conference, went to the
White House to meet the President.
There were nineteen managers in the
party and all were silent over the
developments of the conference of the
men and the President earlier in the
day.
The President's conference with the
men was opened with a statement by
A. D. Garrettson, of the conductors, as
spokesman. He outlined the demands
for an eight-hour day and time and a
half for over time. He insisted that
the demands were fair. President
Wilson then addressed the men, point
ing out what disaster would follow a
general strike and insisting that an
agreement must be reached.
Thoroughly Discuss Situation
The President then asked to know
the specific things on which the em-,
ployers were prepared to insist. Mr.
[Continued on Page 5]
Anxiously Await Crest
of Flood Pouring Down
From Bursted Dam
By .Associated Press
Asheville, N. C„ Aug. 14.—Daylight
found the inhabitants of the Keowee
and Seneca Valleys, in South Carolina
still awake anxiously awaiting the
crest of the floot'. waters loosened last
night by the breaking of .the great
dam at Lake Toxaway, N. C. Warn
ings of the flood's approach were sent
broadcast through Pickens, Walhalla,
Ocene and Anderson counties, enabled
dwellers in the lowlands to prepare
to move, if necessary.
The collapse of the dam released
a lake which covered 550 acres to an
average depth of thirty feet, but so
far as known no lives were lost. At
Lake Toxaway village, a noted sum
mer resort, only minor damage was
reported. A spring seeping the foun
dation of the stone and earth struc
ture is believed to have caused the
collapse. The water's course through
North Carolina ran through an almost
uninhabited section of Transylvania
county. Earyl to-day nj reports of
damage had been received but there
was little doubt but that crops suf
fered severely. Preparations were
made by. industrial plants in South
Carolina to combat the force of the
flood. Gangs were busy strengthen
ing dams and otherwise preparing for
high waters. The known property
damage early to-day was $50,000, the
cost of the dam only.
Anderson, S. C„ Aug. 14. —Water
released when the Toxaway dam
broke last night reached Portman
dam on the Seneca river, ten miles
west of here at 9:30 o'clock this morn
ing. An hour earlier the flood struck
the Blue Ridge railway crossing and
continued to rise for some time after.
No great damage has been done and
none is expected in this section.
FLOUR TAKES JUMP
By Associated Press
Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 14. —Colum
bus mills to-day advanced the price of
all grades of flour sixty-five cents a
barrel. Prevailing prices now are:
Winter patents, $7.80; blended, $8.20;
spring patents, $8.35.
EX-SENATOR HALE BETTER
By Associated Press
Ellsworth, Maine, Aug. 14. The
I condition of former U. S. Senator Eu
gene Hale, who has been critically ill
for several days at his summer home
here, was said by his physicians to
day to be greatly improved.
GEN. PAINE IS DEAD
Boston, Aug. 14. The death at
Weston, of General Charles J. Paine,
well known as an officer of the Civil
war and later as owner of three suc
cessful defenders of the America's
Cup, was announced here to-day. He
was 83 years old and a great-grandson
of Robert Treat Paine, a signer of the
Declaration of Independence. For his
service in the Civil war he received an
honorary commission as Major Gen
eral "for meritorius and valuable ser
vices."
SUGAR COMES DOWN
New York, Aug. 14. All grades
of refined sugar were reduced 25 cents
per hundred pounds to-day making!
fine granulated 7.00. j
HARRISBURG, PA.., MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 14, 1916.
CIRLS GIVE BLOOD TO SAVE
vagi
New York.—Within twenty-four hours, thirty-two ounces of blood, from
former infantile paralysis victims, from which a serum to combat the present
epidemic is being made, was obtained at the Willard Parker hospital here.
Among those who gave their blood to the cause was Miss Grace M. Lytle. who
gave eight ounces, and Miss Amy Olidort, daughter of the vice-president of the
People's Hospital, who gave six ounces.
8 ARRESTED IN
STRIKE TROUBLE
Warrants Will Be Served on
Unlicensed Jitneys, Says
Police Chief
Eight striking carmen were arrested
over the week-end by City Detective
Schelhas. All are charged with being
implicated in an attack on a Third
street car at North street last Wednes
day night. All furnished bail for a
hearing Wednesday afternoon at 2
o'clock, before Alderman James B. De
shong. Two other warrants have been
issued and arrests will be made ac
cording to the police. One of the men
arrested, Charles M. Housel, says he is
a striker, but John J. Thorpe, organ
izer of the car men, declares he is not.
The others under arrest are Wilbert
[Continued on Page 5]
Scotts Recommend That
State Takes Over Liquor
London. Aug. 14. The committee
appointed some time ago to advise
the government in regard to proposals
for purchase by the State of the licens
ed liquor trade of Scotland and has re
commended that trade in liquor by
licensed grocers should be abolished
and that hotels and inns which de
pend mainly on this traffic should be
taken over by the State. The com
mittee reported against the purchase
of distilleries.
It is suggested that the price paid
for hotels and inns should be esti
mated on the basis of their annual
profits over a fixed number of years,
payment to be made in four per cent
stock issued at par.
Two Dead, Six Are 111
From Eating Toadstools
j Bedford. Pa., Aug. 14.—Eating toad
j stools which they thought were mush
j rooms caused the death of Miss Mary
I Corley, 22, and Mrs. Richard Cardtll, 24,
at West Knd yesterday. Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Lohr, at whose home the fatal
meal was served, arc In a serious con
dition and four children are ill.
Mrs. Gardlll is a daughter of Mrs.
Lohr and was spending the day with
her, while Miss Corley was employed
at the Lohr home as a domestic.
DISCUSSING RATIO INCREASE
Washington, Aug. if. ltailroad
1 men and shippers from many parts
|of the country appeared before the
I Interstate Commerce Commission
to-day to argue over the reasonable
ness of proposed increased freight
rates from the Atlantic seaboard to
the intermountain section and from
Pacific coast points east. Some of the
increases are as high as 100 per cent
and unless suspended by the Commis- j
sion will go into effect Sept. 1,
4 SCHOOLS TO BE
IN CANOE RACE
Academy Can Compete With
City and Steelton High
Schools Labor Day
Four instead cf three giant "war"
canoes, manned by crews of young
athletes of the Harrisburg Academy,
as well as Central, Technical and
Steelton high schools, instead of the
three high schools only, may form
the feature event of the big Labor
Day carnival and regatta to be held
under the direction of the "Greater
Harristurg Navy."
Entry of the academy in the "war"
[Continued on Page 3]
Crew of French Cruiser Deny
Reported U-Boat Capture
Pensacola, Fla.. Aug. 14. Termin
ating a stay of 24 hours at this port,
the French cruiser Admiral Aube went
to sea yesterday. Captain Lesquizst
asserted that his visit here was not
of significance.
Captain Lesquizst characterized as
absurd the rumor that the boat was
looking for the Bremen, and when
asked to confirm the reported wire
less dispatch concerning the capture
of the Deutschland by a British patrol
boat, he laughed.
No officer on board would confirm
the reported capture of the undersea
liner Deutschland, but on the contrary,
absolutely denied there was any basis
for the statement. This denial is made
as strong as possible by the captain
and the French consul here.
Unable to Find Ship
Whose Crew Has Mutined
By Associated Press
San Francisco, Aug. 14.—With her
I crew In a state of mutiny the bark
| Callao, which left here Saturday for
j New York, is to-day somewhere off the
: Golden Gate, awaiting a tug to bring
her back to this port.
| The Callao, which is equipped with
I wireless, sent a radio call for a tug
' late Saturday night. A tug was dis
patched to her aid, but returned last
night, having been unable to locate
the bark on account of the dense fog.
Another tug was sent to locate the ves
sel. The Callao Is loaded with 1,500
tons of barley and oil for New York.
EXPORT orii DROPS
By Associated Press
New York, Aug. 14. The Stand
ard Oil company, of New York, to
day reduced the prices of refined
petroleum for export 10 points, mak
ing refined in cases 11.25 cents a gal
lon, in tanks 5.00 cent and standard
white in barrels 8.85 cents.
HAVE EPIDEMIC
UNDER CONTROL
IN THIS STATE
Two Deaths and Seven New
Cases in Phila.; Dixon Pro
nounces Situation Good
INSPECTING CHILDREN
Bush From Seashore Points
Cause Additional Inspectors
to Be Put On
By Associated Press
Philadelphia, Aug. 14.—Two deaths
and seven new cases of infantile
paralysis were reported in this city
yesterday, an improvement over Sat
urday, with its seven deaths and eleven
new cases. The total new cases in
this city for the week ending at 7
o'clock this morning was ninety-two,
with fifteen deaths.
Only nine of the forty-eight wards
in this city have escaped the disease.
In the forty-third ward there have
been thirty cases, and in the twenty
second ward twenty-one cases. The
twenty-second ward takes in German
town and the forty-third embraces
Hunting Park. The West Philadelphia
wards have only eighteen cases.
Determined to inforce against un
covered garbage cans, twelve sanitary
inspectors started this morning on a
tour of the city. All offenders will be
fined. It was believed they would
irake their first inspection in West
Philadelphia, where violations are re
ported to have been most flagrant.
[Continued on Page 7]
King Now Repudiates His
Confessions of Murders
By Associated Press
Albion, N. Y„ Aug. 14.—District
Attorney Knickerbocker of Orleans
announced to-day that Erwin King
hao repudiated the confession he made
at Little Valley, August 10, that he
was guilty of the murder of Charles
Phelps and his housekeeper, Mary
Wollcott, at West Shelby, on March
22. 1915.
Charles Stielow. is now in Sing Sing
prison under sentence of death for
these murders, but was reprieved re
cently *n the day set for his execu
tion. Stielow's friends believed King's
confession would save the life of the
condemned man. It Is said that King
gave the reasons that actuated him
when he made his confessions, but
the District Attorney did not make
public that portion of the statement.
Albion. N. Y., Aug. 14 —David A.
White, Stielow's Albion lawyer, de
clared that the prisoner's recantation
war. "ridiculous, false and inspired."
He added:
"I understand that Kins says in this
allegement that he was offered $3,000
to confess the murders. This I am
sure is false."
Mr. White denied that friends of
Stielow were responsible for the war
rant issued to-day for King's arrest.
Later to-day a warrant was issued by
Justice of the Peace H. C. Tucker,
charging King with murder in the
first degree in connection with the
Phelps and Wollcott murders.
The Justice refused to say upon
whose information the warrant was
issued.
WILL MAKE NO DIFFERENCE
By Associated Rrcss
New York, Aug. 14. The report
ed repudiation by Erwin King of his
confession that he was guilty of the
double murder at Shelby will have no
effect on efforts to save Charles Stie
low from the electric chair, Stuart M.
Kohn, an attorney of the Mutual Wel
fare League, who has been active
in Stielow's behalf said to-day.
Cool Weather Will
Continue Is Forecast
Cool weather will continue with little
Increase in temperature for another
forty eight hours at least, according to
forecasts issued this morning, by the
U. S. weather bureau.
This morning at eight o'clock the
mercury stood at 62 degrees, 17 degrees
I below normal. Cool breezes during the
! day kept the temperature low, but the
record for the month is 49 degrees.
This was established August 27. 1910.
The cool weather is general and will
continue with fair skies to-morrow.
Wreck Toll Now Twenty-Six;
Many Others May Die
Special to the Telegraph
Johnstown, Pa., Aug. 14.—The
death toll resulting from the wreck
ion the line of the Southern Cambria
Traction Company, seven miles from
here, Saturday, was brought up to 26,
with the death of Mrs. Judith Ribblett.
Several other persons are In a critical
condition.
Twenty-one victims of the wreck
are in the Mercy Hospital, while
thirty-four others are now at Memo
rial Hospital, ten having already been
discharged and sent home.
! Local morgues are overtaxed with
1 bodies and funerals have to be ar
ranged to suit the convenience of un
dertakers.
An investigation of the wreck will
also be made by officials of the com
pany. State and local authorities have
been notified that they will be per
mitted to have representatives pres
ent. Coroner C. A. Fitzgerald con
tinued his investigation, but no date
for the inquest has been announced.
Failure of the brakes to work is be
lieved by local authorities to have
caused the wreck.
MARQUIS DE SEGUR DIES
Paris, Aug. 74. Marquis De Segur,
the historian and member of the
French Academy, died yesterday. He
was elected to the Academy in 1907.
PENROSE CARRIES ATTACK ON
By Associated Press
Washington, Aug. 14. Senator
Penrose carried the Republican at
tack on President Wilson's appoint
ments a step further to-day by intro
ducing resolutions calling for investi
gation of appointments with waivers
of 'Civil Service requirements.
TRY TO UNRAVEL
MYSTERY OF MAN
FOUND BEHEADED
Body Found in Lonely Spot
With Severed Skull and Bight
Arm Three Feet Away
NOT YET IDENTIFIED
Coroner Suspects Foul Play,
but Thinks Wild Animal
May Have Torn Victim
Hidden in a valley between two
mountains, and more than a mile from
the nearest house. Aaron S. Payne, of
1709 Market street, yesterday found
thj decomposed body of an unidenti
fied man, with the head and right
arm cut off, and lying about three feet
away.
County authorities are at a loss to
determine just how the man met his
death, owing to the condition of the
body, but every effort is being made
to learn the cause. That the man was
murdered, or met with an accident
and some animal found the body and
attempted to drag it away, is the be
lief of the investigators.
Nothing was found to identify the
man, who was well dressed. Mystery
surrounds the case, as the spot where
he was found is about the. loneliest
known in the valley.
Near the body was a new Panama
hat. The man wore low tan shoes,
with rubber heels, and a brown suit.
Authorities are not positive of the age,
but will endeavor to get a better de
scription after a thorough examina
tion. It is believed that the body has
been lying in the mountains for weeks.
It was brought to the morgue of
Charles H. Mauk, undertaker, Sixth
and Kelker streets, this morning and
is being held pending the investiga
tion.
The climb to the spot took more
than an hour, as it is more than a
mile from the nearest house, which is
occupied by J. C. Farble and family.
Mrs. Farble said yesterday that
strangers were seen in the neighbor
[ hood some time ago.
STRIKES OUT 25 MEN
By Associated Press
Marienette, Wis., Aug. 14. What
is believed to be a record in baseball
was made yesterday when Pitcher
Ewick of the Crivitz Baseball team in
an eleven-inning game with Marien
ette struck out 25 men. Crivitz won
; to l.
ro EVIDENCE OF FOUL PLAY J
rg.—Dr. R. L. Perkins, under the direction of I
inger completed a tliorough examination of ( *
le unknown man, found yesterday in Robert's ;
narks indicating foul play were found. Noth-4 t
. ... fe .vund to aid in identifying the body, which was ! '
1 buried late to-day. I >
< 1 STRIKER ARRESTED !
i I Harrisburg.—John S. Dunkle, one of the striking car- ;[
I men, was arrested this afternoon by Detective Schelhas, *
JI ' arged with being implicated in the attack on a Third sti
' car last Wednesday night. ! 1
ji
T CONFERENCE MAY GO OVER UNTIL TO-MORROW j
1 Washington, Ag. i4.—Judge Chambers of *, ►
did not wait at the White ITou: c for the !
|i confer) a *
\ t clared that the discussion might <JO over until to-morrow i|
1
TUGS GO TO MEET FOREIGN U-BOAT
I ' New London, Conn., Aug. 14.—Two tugs have gone out'
! to meet a foreign submarine reported south of Fisher's ! ,
< I Island. I [
; i WANTS STATE TO MAINTAIN ROAD , ►
Harrisburg.— Mandamus proceedings recently insti-, |
I tuted by the commissioners of Northampton county against .
I the State Highway Department to compel State officials* ?
* to construct and maintain as a State highway, the road lead- '
! ing from Nazareth to Bethlehem were heard this after-j |
J ' noon by the Dauphin county court.
COMMISSION OPPOSES BRIDGE
, Harrisburg. At a meeting at ftoon to-day of the City .
5 I Planning Commission the ordinance authorizing Swift and ' ,
; Company to build a bridge across Seventh street to con
inect the company buildings, was returned to Council with' *
a negative recommendation.
MARtUA Ct. |
Orrln Crawford Hard, Mt. l uion, unci Catherine Ellen Bowers* city* j
Cheater Lewis Browu and Mary Cdlth Rohm, city.
C liarles Clifton Field* and AuguMa Elizabeth Brady, city. V
Charles IV. .Mann and Mary Catherine Fuglt, city. J
3 A' 1 Vb ii "fij ii Jt 'ii vt/ 'ii Wi ii xfti' I i||||
10 PAGES CITY EDITION
RUSSIANS ARE
PUSHING TEUTONS
RAPIDLY BACK
Both Flanks of Austrians on
Lembcrg Front Under
Heavy Pressure
ITALIANS ARE WINNING
Pierce Strong Line and Take
Prisoners; French Forcing
Evacuation of Clery
The Russian drive in Galicia is push
ing the Austro-German armies back
ward toward Lemberg at a rapid rate.
Both flanks of General Count Von
Bothmer's army on the Lemberg front
are under heavy pressure on its cen
ter, forced from the line of the Stripa,
is accounted by military observers in
Entente capitals to nave been none too
secure a position in its rear along the
upper Zlota Lipa, to which it is pre
sumed to be retreating.
Petrograd to-day announces new
gains for the Russians on the north
wing of this frOnt, on the upper Ser
eth, while to the south General Let
chitzky is continuing hte thrust up the
Dniester in the vicinity of Mariampol,
seven miles from Halicz. The Russian
armies in the center also are pursuing
the Austrians in the middle Stripa
and Koropice regions.
Continuing their advance from Gort
zia on the lsonzo front, the Italians
have made further progress on the
Carso Plateau to the south coast.
Rome reports the piercing of a strong
ly defended Austrian line east of hill
212 and the capture of about 800 addi
tional men. The Austrians are sharply
attacking along other sectors of the
front but were repulsed in all at
tempts. the Italian war office an
nounces.
Following the usual course the Ger
mans have sharply counter attacked
along the line west of Pozieres which
London last night reported the Brit
ish to have carried to a depth of 300 or
400 yards on a front of .nearly a mile.
The attack was partly successful, the
Germans gaining a foothold in a por
tion of the lost trenches.
Following up their gains on the
north bank of the Somme the French
are pushing their advance to a point
where German evacuation of Clery,
commanding the direct approach to
Peronne from the northwest may be
compelled. Fighting is being contin
ued in the Maurepas sector northwest
of Clery, where brisk cannonading is
reported to-day. To the left of the
Fay Deniecourt road a French attack
resulted In carrying some trenches.
