BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 128.
JUKKK, VKKMOXT. MONDAY, AUGUST 14. 1910.
THICK, ONE CKXT.
rrn
HE
WILSON STEPS IN
AS MEDIATOR TO
AVERT STRIKE
The President Called in Both
Sides of the Railroad In
dustrial Controversy and
Listened to Their Stories
in the Effort to Prevent a
Strike
FIRST MET THE MEN,
THEN THE MANAGERS
not arbitrate even if t tie railroad waived
the contingent proportion.
The chief objection of the men to ar
bitrating the railroads' contingent prop
position" lay in their contention that
the proposal' entailed the wiping out of
double compensation feature which the
men have gained during 30 year of ef
fort. The railroad have contended that
d-Hible compensation, together with, the
demand, would increase the wage or
many of their employed more than 100
per cent.
TROOPS MAY LEAVE SOON.
BRITISH LOST
PART OF GAIN
French Captured Trenches
Left of the Fay-Deine-
court Road
PAID FOR FOLLY
WITH HIS LIFE
RUSSIANS PRESS
ONWARD UNCHECKED
After Conferring with the
Chief Executive, Garret-
son, Representing the 400,
000 Employes, Declined to
Make Statement Till End
of Negotiations
Remainder of Vermont Soldiers Expect
Entraining Orders.
Burlington, Aug. M. The Central Ver
mont Kail road company pot an order
Saturday afternoon to prepare to wtart
the rent of the Vermont troops for the
front at short notice. The war depart
ment issued a general order Saturday
j afternoon that all the remaining militia
inrougnoui, i lie country wmcn mive not
yet been sent to Mexico, entrain imme
diately upon receiving order. When the
twelve companies of infantry went o(T
to the border, the orders to the railroad
and Adjutant-General Lee S. Tillotson
Italians Pierced Hostile En
trenchments on the
Carso Plateau
Washington, Aug. 14 The railroad
managers and brotherhood leaders, dead
locked .n the negotiations which threat
ened a nation-wide railroad strike to-day,
laid their case before Pres. Wilson to
day. First came 35 representatives of
the brotherhoods, who conferred with the
president. They were followed by a
committee of managers. The brother
hood men went into the conference firm in
their determination not to accept arbi
tration under the Newlands act, which
they contend had always furnished arbi-!
trators before whom the men did not I
have an unprejudiced opportunity.
Thcro were some indications that the
president might propose special arbitra
tion before a board of 12 members, on
which the fovir brotherhoods could be
represented. The president's plan was to
appeal to both sides on the highest pa
triotic grounds to find a way to compose
the differences without a strike. V. L,
Chambers, of the mediators, conferred
with the president early, arranging for a
conference. Chambers believed the
chances for settlement by the president
were blighter than by the board.
The president's conference with the
men opened with a statement by A. B.
Garretson outlining the demands. Then
the president addressed the men, insisting
that an agreement must be reached. Gar
rctson and the president discussed the
situation thoroughly and "Wilson prom
ised to take the demands up with the
managers in an effort to find a common
ground' on which the two sides could
meet.
After being with the president two
hours the representatives of the men left ,
the White House and Mr. Garretson said
they expected to Bee the president again
later in the day after he had conferred
with the managers. Garretson refused to
say whether the outlook was hopeful.
"As long as the matter is in the presi
dent's hands we will have no statement
to make," said Garretson.
Pres. Wilson immediately sent for the
railroad managers to lay before them the
position of the workmen.
There were some suggestions, purely
informal, that the men were regarding
the possibility of arbitration with the
president himself as chief arbitrator. It
was arranged that the managers should
see the president at 3 o'clock this after
noon At the White House it was said
that no indications could be given out of
the progress of the negotiations until
after the president saw the managers.
One of the leaders of the brotherhoods
characterized tie conference with the
president as most encouraging. He de
clared that the outlook for prevention of
a general strike was hopeful. Adminis
tration officials expressed confidence that
the president's intervention would result
lxmdon, Aug. 14 Attacknig British po
sitions near Pozieres on the Somme
front, the Germans lust night gained a
foothold temporarily in a portion of the
trenches taken from them yesterday.
Saturday night and Sunday the Brit
ish made an advance of from 300 to 400
yards over a front of nearly a mile and
also captured trenches on the plateau
northwest of Bazenlin-le-Petiti.
Paris, Aug. J V French troops Cap
tor...! ftn.iiA f i-vtiifi. nti flirt litt rif thtk
arrived almost simultaneously, but the j Kov.1),.nipoolirt roaj in ti,e Somme sec
departure ot me regiment was torst ight, av
Young Man Had Shammed Fright in the
Water and When Real Danger Came
Hit Friends Did Not Co to
His Rescue.
81. Albans. Aug. 14. Stephen Rhieard
IS years (.1.1, employed bv tho St. Al
bans (irain company, wm drowned in
Lake Chnmplain near Shanty point yes
terday noon. The body was recovered
after an hour's search. He was rsmping
for tho summer with Mr. and Mrs. A. S
Greene of Diamond street, with whom
he had made bin home most of the time
since he was a little boy.
He was out in a boat with some girl
at the time of the accident, and jumped
from the liow to go In lwthing. He could
not swim, but evidently misjudged the
depth of the water, which at this point
was seven feet deep. He screamed l in
mediately, but had feigned fright pre
viouslv while in the water, so no at
tention was paid to him at first. Finally
a lioat put out from shore, 73 feet dis
tant, but on account of the high wind,
was unable to get at the spot in time.
Tho body wh finally recovered with
grappn'ng hooks and taken ashore, where
R. H. Mecorney used a lung-motor for an
hour and a half in vain. Doctors K. A.
Hyatt and C. A. Loft it assisted him. The
remains were taken to the Greene home.
about 3(5 hours pending the arrival of
equipment. It is expected that the
headquarters, supply and machine gun
companies, a well as the provisional
company at rort r.than Allen will leave
to-morrow or ednesdav. The actual
order had not reached the hands of the
adjutant-general up to la ft night.
Captain H. S. Hyland of Rutland, com
manding oflieer at the camp and head of
A company, said the order to entrain
had been expected ever since the rail
way received its order. Hut the war de
partment issued an order, still in effect
at this writing, that the militia could
not leave until they were fully equipped.
The general order to the National Guard
of the country in the first place was that
no company ot militia culd depart until
it was fully equipped and at minimum
or peace strength at least. The four
companies are strong enough numerically,
but still lack the ponchos, mosquito bars
and bed sacks, one of each for every en
listed man, required for summer and
winter service.
Tho recruiting stations at Morrisville,
Middlebury and Bennington, will prob
ably remain open until the militia of
Vermont reaches its full war strength,
refruits being received at Fort F.thau
Allen. Only 23 or 30 men have taken
the oath at the three stations in addition
to about 10 at the fort since the new pe
riod of recruiting began. No information
has come to headquarters so far that the
stations would be discontinued, and there
is no reason for doing so ns long as the
regiment is not at its full war qiiota.
ght, savs the war office. There
was brisk cannonading in the Maurepas
region. German attack at Fleury were
repulsed.
Tetrograd. Aug. 14. Along the Guli
cian front the Russian sweep continues
unchecked, the official announcement of
to day states. Further gains have been
made on the upper Sercth. In the re
gion of middle Stripa and Koropiee the
Austrians are being pursued by t lie Rus
sians who have reached the northern
bank of the Dniester river before Ma
ria mpol.
Rome, Aug. 14. The Italian troops
j continue!! yesterday to push the Aus
trian troops back on the Carso plateau
and east of hill 212 have pierced another
stronghold of hostile entrenchments.
About eight hundred prisoners have been
captured by the Italians, says the official
announcement.
CLAIMS PREVIOUS OFFENSE
Says
to
MAY LOSE COMMANDS
Three Vermont Troop Lieutenants Said
to Be in Danger.
Eagle Pass, Tex., Aug. 14. Three lieu
tenants of twe 1st Vermont may lose!
their official heads before many davs of
the next week are over.
Col. Reeves requested the governor and
adjutant general of the Btate to have a
board meet to test the efficiency of these
three officers. The colonel's request has
been acted upon, and the efficiency board
held its first session this morning. The
board is composed of Lieut. Col. Fred B.
Thomas, president; Maj. V. X. Cooley
and Capt. H. M. Howe, recorder.
In his communication to the major and
the adjutant, Col. Reeves said that he
felt that inefficient men should not clog
the command's offices and thus keep out
men who were perfectly efficient and hon
estly entitled to commands. It is under
stood that both the governor and the ad
jutant general commended his attitude.
In some states the militia organisations
have become social bodies or bodies for
the furthering of political advantages.
Col. Reeves wants none of that in his
regiment. The board is the first of its
kind to meet on the border.
United States Used Blacklist
Suppress Opium Traffic.
London, Aug. 14. Discussing tho
American protest against the blacklist on
American business firms, The Times as
serts that both the United States and
England have used similar methods in
times of peace to suppress the opium
traffic, and that the I'nited States fol
lowed a similar plan in the pacification of
the Philippines.
AYERS FAMILY REUNION
Was Held at Plainfield With 21 Guests
Present.
Plainfield, An?. 14. The annual Avers
reunion was held at the Avers camp Sat
urday. Aug. 12, with Mr. and Mrs. L. C.
Baldwin as host and hostess. The usual
good time was enjoyed, though many of
the family were detained at home for va
rious reasons, imlv zl guests were pr
ent. The lunch baskets produced the best
possible results of many good cooks. In
some instances recipes were used lielong-
ing to absent members of the family.
After dinner a business meeting was
held. The old board of offii-ers was re
elected. Recitations were given by Miss
Elizabeth Pace and Master vVnvland
Page. The older members of the reunion
gave reminiscences of Mr. and Mrs. .Tohn
P. Avers.
It was suggested that the next reunion
be held at Bancroft inn.
Thoe from out of town to attend the
reunion were: Mr. and Mrs. V. E. Avers.
Fred I.. Tage and Gladstone Clark of
Barre; Mrs. Florence Smith and daugh
ters of (irnton pond; Carl Cate of North
Montpelier and Winston Chamberlin of
Montpelier.
GRATIFYING
PROGRESS
For Catholic Order of For
esters Through New
England
CONFERENCE HELD
AT ST. ALBANS
Plans Made for Active Cam
paigns in Fall and
Winter
St. Albans, Aug. 14. The annual meet-
irg of the state chief ranger and atate
secretaries of the Catholic Order of For
esters was held here Sunday. Following
dinner at the American house, the mem-
ers were taken to Samson's Lake View
ouse on I.ake Champlain, where the
iiisiness meeting was held. Gratifying
reports of the order in New England
were received and general plans were out-
ined for recruitment and further exten
ion of the order during the fall and win
er. Supper was served at the Lake
"lew house.
N. E. L'Ecuver, state chief ranger, and
William H. Driseoll. state secretary, both
f St. Albans, represented the Vermont
irisdiction.
STRUCK HERD OF COWS.
Autoist Said to Be from Burlington,
Killed or Injured Two.
A Burlington automobile, hurrying
MAKES SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS.
WOMAN VAS QUICK
CARRIED OFF SAFE.
at
Saved Lives at Revere Beach by Putting
on the Emergency Brake.
Boston. Aug. 14. Quick action of Mrs.
Emma Green of Bennington, Vt., prob
ably saved the lives of three people who
were knocked down by the automobile in
which she and Louis E. Spencer were rid
ing as the car swung around the eorner
of Chester avenue and the Revere Beach
boulevard last night.
The car was operated by Spencer, an
elderly man, and as it turned the comer
of Chester avenue, Mrs. Belle Griffin, 45
years old, of Nahant; Mrs. Elizabeth
Rossi, 37, of 206 Hanover street, Boston,
and Michael Cuzzo, 40, stepped from the
curbstone in front of the car and all three
were knocked down. When turning the
corner Mrs. Green, seeing the danger of
the man and women, seized the emergen
cy brske and bore down with all her
strength, succeeding in checking the car's
speed.
Mrs. Griffin went under the car. It
passed over her but she escaped with a
few cuts and bruises. Mrs. Rossi and
Cuzr.o received cuts, bruises ami minor
injuries.
Granite Mutual Co. Statement Pleasing
to Directors.
A record of progress probably equalled
by no other ermont4hre insurance com
lianv is indicated in tho loth annual re
port of the Granite Mutual Insurance Co.
of this city, copies of which are being
distributed to policyholders and directors
rewer losses and a larger increase in
business over the record of last year are
shown and the present financial status
of the company gives promise that the
pri-mium note capital, cash capital and
balance will round out a capital of $1
000,000 when the Granite Mutual ob
serves its U'th birthday March 1. 1917; a
consummation that, will establish the
growth of the local company as being
without parallel in the history of fire
insurance here in the state.
he amount at risk Aug. 1, Win, was
.7 .354,40."), as against $0,.)O3,.-)!0 Aug. 1,
1(115, a gain of $I,0.0,M! during the fiscal
year. On Aug. 1, 101,5, the premium note
capital was S793.0W1 and Aug. 1. 11)18,
the figures were $003,610, a gain in cap
ital of $100,(1.10. When the books were
closed for the year, there were no unset
tled losses, and all losses had been paid.
EVERYBODY 0UT1
FOUR MEN INJURED.
When Train Catapulted Baggage Truck
Against Them. "
in averting a strike.
MAY DIRECT STRIKE
FROM NEW YORK CITY
If President's Plans Fail and Great Strike
Is Called the Orders Will Be Is
sued from Headquarters
There.
New York, Aug. 14. If the president
fails to persuade the railroad men and
the employes to settle their differences
and a general strike is called, it will be
directed from headquarter here. At the
brotherhood headquarters it was said that
all preparations had been made for put
ting into effect the etrike. The tension
in business circles showed their realisa
tion of the acute danger of a national
calamity.
The final break came late yesterday
after tie men had been in secret session
nearly six hours. Report differed as
to the reason for the failure, in view
Burglars Were Rather Painstaking
Enosburg Falls.
Enosburg Falls, Aug. 14. The Central
Vermont railway's station at this place
was burglarized yesterday morning, en
trance beinjr effected thrmifrh tht n(Tu.
window. The safe, which was a small icnd of whlch had bpen left far out "
one, was taken, containing several mile-the rtf"n, and drove it onto a pal
aces and about 810 in cash. Fresh mn. lof summer visitors who were standing
Sehago, Me., Aug. 14. A Portland
bo.ind train on the Mountain division of
the Maine Central railroad due at Se-
bago Lake steamer at 5:12 yesterday
atternoon, struck
All Board of Trade Members Expected to
. Go to South Royalton.
Barre Board of Trade members will
please remember to purchase tickets at
once for self and ladv and attend the
fourth get-together automobile trip and
supper, to be held at South Royalton
Thursday evening, Aug. 17. Tickets for
the supper are oil cents and include the
ride from Barre through Williamsfown
gulf to South Royalton and return, one
of the pleasantest rides in Vermont,
thrown in with a full evening's entertain
ment, including music by Carroll's orches
tra, a band concert by the Barre band,
ISO pictures shown on a screen and illus
trating Barre and her chief industry, and
an opportunity for all to participate in
an open-air dunce from 8:30 to 10 o clock.
for which a suitable and sufficient floor
will be provided. Automobiles will leave
the city park in front of the opera house
at 5:1.5 o'clock. The automobile commit-
into illiamstown gulf at dusk last
night, left a trail of dead cows in its
wake, after colliding with a small herd
belonging to the George Sprague farm.
One cow was killed outright and another
lad to be shot, as a result of the mis
hap. The owner of the automobile in
G. Frederic Jones, according to the li
cense directory. Several Barre cars hap
pened along while the motorist and the
owner of the cows were conferring. It
transpired that Mr. Jones and his party,
in a 27 h. p. Willys-Knight car, were
hurrying toward Barre when a herd of
six cows suddenly emerged from the
woods on the west side of the highway.
Before the driver could stop his ear, two
cows w-ere hit.
Two men who said they were driving
the cows down from a hill pasture ap
peared on the scene at once. Apparent
ly the cows, with the men at their heels,
were coming down through a wooded
path that joins the rna'm road and the
first cows to reach the highway were hit
by the auto. Headlights and the hood
on the automobile were badly jammed
and after talking over the accident with
the farmer, the driver, said he would
continue to Barre and get his car re
paired before returning to Burlington.
nif. DAY FOR CLAN
AT CALEDONIA PARK
Large Number of People Enjoyed Varied
Program and Event Was One of the
Most Auspicious Held by the Order.
(Ian Gordon's picnic, perennial bar
bingcr of the mellowing summer, was a
sanctuary for more than 1,000 fun keek
ers at Caledonia park Saturday after
noon. When the chief and his assistants
hoisted the banner of Scotland up under
the stars anil stripes on the big nag pole
at the park around the noon hour, the
colors cast their wavering shadows on a
plavgrouud that has been used many
times for an outing of the clan. All told,
there have been 32 picnics under these
auspices, but none of the assemblies in
pant years has been more enjoyable than
the event of Saturday. Out of tho west
in the midafternoon there cumu a shower
that sent most of the recreationists to
cover for a few moments, but while it
rained pharply, the interruption was only
teuiHirary and as soon as the storm sub
sided, the merrymaking was on again.
(James began soon after the noon hour
and continued until nearly 6 o'clock.
There was plenty of music for dancing
arid there was scarcely a moment
throughout the afternoon that the or
chestra men could call their own. Out on
the greensward there was a variety of
games, contests of skill nd competitions
where the venturesome needed no handi
cap troin the skilled. JIany traveled to
the grounds in special trains over the M.
W. R. railroad and others by trolley.
The crowd did not reach its maximum
until the games were well under way, but
most of those who patronized the picnic
were perfectly willing to stay until the
last train for Barre was duo to leave the
grounds.
Obedient to a custom inaugurated by
his father, the late William Barclay,
William Barclay, jr., presented a dime
to each child under 12 years of age
WRECK CLAIMS
FOUR OF CREW
Gloucester, Mass.,
Schooner Oriol'
Lost
nmg
.PAS
V
PART OF CR' SAVED
BY P,iING SHIP
Schooner Went Down off the
Grand Banks Sat
urday
Gloucester. Mass.. Auc. 14 The lot. nt
the fishing schooner Oriole with four
members of her crew off the Grand Banks
Saturday was announced in advices re
ceived to-day from Halifax. The other
members ofrthe crew were picked up by a
steamer and carried to Halifax.
SHOT W THE TOE.
12-Year-Old Girl Careless with Brother's
Rifle. i
A bullet from a 22-rifie bored a hole
in one toe for Miss Bertina Cera soli at
her home, 31 Berlin street, Saturday
afternoon.
The child is 12 years old and the ac
cident occurred while she was playing
w ith her brother's rifle. Just now" the
Michael Cerasoli, is getting
reaay 10 leave rori i-than Allen with a
The
presentations were made during a lull in brother,
me games ana w nen me totals were nnai-
ly in, ii was uiscoverea aiines naa contingent of Vermont, boe. -Intd f, a
been distributed to 202 girls and 120 Lninl,rn nn tu tk- ..li
boys. An interesting feature of the 32d ,.i, ,).,. i ' .... ...-:..
nnual outing was the presentation of the workinp8 of thfi tri whe jt
old medal set with precious stones to pode,, Th buet pasfcj th h w
" "'"K left shoe, penetrated the treat toe and
U'flflf VirrnKrVi Via fl rrf
nated by Walter Scott of New York, roy- Bhfch(,arrl fh( rprirf Mr. Pro.
al tanist of all clansmen in America.
soli did not know the gun was loaded.
The awards are noted below, along with She Mnt ,n a hurry fof M -
the finals in the football competition, in
which St. Andrew s club swept the held
Winners in the shooting contest benefited
by the generosity of t tie Spamsh-Amer
lean war veterans of Washington county
who donated the goldpieces assigned to
the best marksmen,
Other awards were made as tollows:
Pair of shoes bv Clansman G. X. Tilden.
bush hammer and hand hammer by Trow
& Holden, bush chisel by James Ahem,
Chandler and as soon as the physician
arrived the toe was dressed. Unless com
plications develop, the toe w-ill not be
amputated.
GIVEN GOOD SEND-OFF.
KNOCKED DOWN BY AUTO.
Mrs. Oliver Trudo of Weybridge Hurt at
Middlebury.
Middleburv, Aug. 14. Mrs. Oilver Tni
do of Weybridge, who was struck and
knocked dwn by an automobile driven
by Benjamin O. Wales of Welbridge on
Main street about 10 o clock Saturday
evening near the tieorge t,. Marshall
store, received a broken rib and a bad
scalp wound. The car was running very
lowly which was a fortunate thing for
the woman. Mrs. Trudo was taken from
beneath the car immediately to the oflice
of Dr. P. L. Dorey on Court street, where
she wag cared for. Later in the evening
she was taken to her home. Just how
he accident happened cannot be ac
counted for. The only explanation is
that the street was more or less blocked
by two automobiles and some teams,
which had been standing there for a con
siderable length of time, and Mrs. Trudo
did not see the approaching machine
when she attempted to cross the highway.
Barre Party for Cleveland Were Escorted
to Their Train.
Outward bound late Saturday after-
money prizes for married ladies' race by neon, some 50 Barre excursionists, most
Dr. . D. Reid, five-pound box of tandy of them connected in one way or another
by Clansman E. M. Laws, potted palm with the Barre granite industry and
bv Emslie Bros., gents' umbrella by a thereby qualified to boost the native
friend of Clan Gordon, special prize of $5 stone when they arrive in Cleveland, got
donated bv a clansman to the youngest ft hearty send-off from the Board of
eligible clansman on the field, gate prize Trade as they betook themselves to the
for ladies by Clansman Alex Milne, prizes station. Headed by a nfe and drum corps
for girls' race donated bv young clans- and escorted by the officers and other
man, pipe in dart-throwing contest by niemoera oi tno eoara or iraae, most or
George M. Marrion, parlor suite in guess- those who are making the trip marched
ing competition by Clansman A. W. Bad- down North Main street to the Central
ger. I vermoni station at o-.ai) o ciocx. a cou-
More than passing interest was mam- pie of heavy-lifters bearing a pail of
tested in the Highland dancmir and the milk, the official token of the drive on
sword dance, and while the games in the Cleveland, occupied a conspicuous place
open field were in progress a large crowd m tne ranKs, and somewhere in the pa-
swarmed the sidelines. The winnintr rade there was hoisted aloft a banner
team in the five-a-side soccer matches bfaring the legend,."The Barre Board of
won $25. the sum of S15 eoim to the Trade.
runner-up. .Money prizes were i.warded x-unc speecnm ai me station mane n
in many of the events and some un- pwu that narre ana her fioard ot Jrad
usually fine scorinz was done. Piner were pleased to be represented by so
Isaac 'Riddel did a nrettv turn at the a lot of delegates, and that the)
bsgpipe and was heartily applauded by delegates, in turn, were mightily pleased
admiring listeners. He furnished music w'th such a tine showing in the hour of
for the Highland and sword dances after-
their exodus. President W. G. Reynolds
sr.oke for the senders-off, and President
Alex. Duncan of the Granite Manufac
turers' association had something solid to
say in response. Three cheers and a ti
ger, handled by the Board of Trade offi
cers and he crowd threatened for a mo-
AGED MAN HURT
a Daggage irucK, one , i. ,.f n w li.v.i-r n e
niim, E. C. Glvsson and F. H. Rogers.
mobile tracks gave the only clue. An
nearby, seriously injuring four men.
f .;,. i) i c tnree of wnom are memoers ot tne isew
were also broken into and eight of them York poliee force. The injured:
taken. The rifling of a piece of baggage Villiam J. Raftis, aged 32, fractured
was not completed, something having sn" ,
evidently interefered with operations. ,plh as". peo" 33, thigh brok-
len inn! badly cut; possibly internally m-
j jured.
TALK OF THE TOWN
GOES TO GERMAN SERVICE.
Dr. Byron H. Hermann, Formerly of St.
Albans, Leaves This Month.
St. Albans, Aug. 14. Dr. Byron H.
Herman, formerly of St. Albans, who
spent the week end with his parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Renjamin Hermann, re
turned to New York to-day and will
sail this month with an American unit
for Germany, where he will act as sur
geon in a base hospital at Naumburg-on-Saale,
Saxony.
WELL KNOWN VETERAN
Gen. Charles J. Paine Was in the Civil
War.
Boston, Aug. 14. The death of ;en.
lames Dalton. aged 3ft, fractured col
lar bone and badly cut.
Joseph C. Brown, aged 40, leg broken
in three places and badly cut.
Castano is the most seriously hurt.
All were brought to Portland hospital
after their injuries had been attended to
by local surgeons.
TWO KIxLED BY TRAIN
Whea Automobile Struck It at
Line, N. H.
Mr. and Mrs. James Ahern, Misses
Katherine, .Annie. Dorothy and Doris
Ahern and Wendell Ahern of Eastern
avenue returned to the city this morning
from an outing at Old Orchard. Mo.
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Value, who were
Cfilled to Barre l:it week by the death
of their niece, Miss Helen White, re
turned to their home in Essex Junction
Saturday night, after visiting at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Ixiuis White of
Third street.
In order to find out if there is anvi
enthusiasm in Raire about forming a
bagpipe band. Isaac Riddell of Merchant
street would like to hear from bovs be
tween the ages of 13 and 1". If there'
iare a dozen boys w illing to take lessons he :
State 'i ready to teach them free of charge.;
Jumped in Front of St. Johnsbury Man's
Automobile.
Orleans, Aug. 14. Saturday afternoon
between 2:. '10 and 3 o'clock as O. X.
Grant, an elderly man, was walking to
ward his home on the Willoughby lake
road, he was knocked down by an auto
mobile driven bv C. E. Kirk of St. Johns-
bury. I lie accident happened about 10iRpjj istj Oorge Ironside 2d, Leslie Web
rods beyond the Taplin & Rowell farm stnr 3(l
ward. Refreshments of tea, coffee, sand'
wiches, ice cream and soft drinks were
much in evidence.
The Results of Sports.
Throwing heavy hammer Norman Mc
leod 1st, 90 ft. 2 in.; Charles Keith 2d, ment to lift the ornate tile roof from thu
89 ft. 10 in.; William Riddel 3d, 74 ft. 1 in. station. Indeed, there was a good deal
Putting the stone Norman McLeod of cheering and many less voluble adieus
1st, 39 ft. S'j in.; Robert Johnston 2d, that the official historian of the trir
39 ft. 5'j in.; William Kiddel 3d, 3o ft. didnt have time to record. Suffice it to
Sin. . say that the excursionists, once they
Running high leap William Riddel and were settled snugly in the two Pullman
Hugh McDonald (tied 1st) 5 ft.; Robert cars specially chartered for their corn-
Phillips 2d, 4 ft. 7 in. fort, were well aware that they had been
Hop, step and jump Norman McLeod most enthusiastically farewelled.
1st, 35 ft. 9'2 in.; Robert Phillips 2d, 35 The tourists hoist the flaming Barra
ft. 4 in.; Hugh McDonald 3d, 3o ft. 1 in
Long leap C. Colombo 1st, It. ft. 10'
in; Hugh McDonald 2d, 16 ft. 9 in.; Rob
ert Phillips 3d, lfi ft. Vz in.
Pole vault L. Averv 1st, 9 ft. 6 in.
N. MeIeod and Robert Johnston (tied 2d
and 3d) 9 ft. 4 in.
10o-vard dash Hugh McDonald 1st, C.
Colombo 2d, R. Phillips 3d.
Shoe race (confined to clansmen)
George Cormack.
Bovs race (under la years) Hector
carried on by Frank 1-apierre. It is said
that the automobile turned out on the
side of the road on which Mr. Grant was!-0(Tin 3d.
Girls' race (under 15 years) Margaret
Wilson 1st, Jeannie Morgan 2d, Louise
and when he saw the car coming upon
him he lost his head and instead of jump
ing into the ditch he sprang in front of
the automobile. The result was a broken
leg. rib and many bruises.
It is a particularly unfortunate case
for Mr. Grant, owing to the fact that he
was partially paralyzed by a shock which
affected the whole of his right side, and
this injury will be an added handicap.
FUNERAL OF J. H. KELLEHER
Held
in
The matter was brought up at the t'ianj)wr
from St. Augustine's Church
Montpelier.
The funeral of James H. Kelleher, na
tional hank examiner, was held at 3
o'clock Sunday afternoon from St. Au
gustine's church in Montpelier. Kev. P. J.
Ixuig. the rector, officiating. Rev. J. .
100-yard race (open to clansmen's
wives) Mrs. James Murray 1st. Mrs.
William Innes 2d, Mrs. James Hogg 3d.
Apprentice race James Glass 1st, Wil
liam Ross 2d. Peter Massie 3d.
Married ladies' race Mrs. Murray 1st,
Mrs. Seampini 2d, Mrs. Brown 3d.
440 yard dash Robert Phillips lt, D.
Monti 2d, James Glass 3.
granite pennant over the city watch tow
er in Cleveland this afternoon at 4:3o,
and what with a busy week at the monu
ment retailers' convention and a good bit
of sightseeing to be done thereafter, they
won't be back among us until Aug. 21.
BARN FIRE AT CHELSEA.
Norman H. Hill Meets with Second Seri
ous Misfortune.
Qielsea, Aug. 14. On Sunday morning
when Norman H. Hill was milking, his
wife discovered that the barn was on
fire and hastened to the barn and helped
her husband to get the stock and tools
out of the building, which was doomed,
as the fire had gained such headway, ami
in a short time was consumed. The
house and shed were saved bv tearing;
down a smaller shed whioh joined ail
the buildings together, help arriving in
season to assist Mr. Hill in tearing down,
the shed. This is a serious blow to Mr.
Hill as he was so unfortunate in th
ladies-
. : A I. i . i v i , : J
Single i ladies race (18 years or older)- hm lnti) Julr nd th , goml
misfortune hits him pretty hard. Ho
was late about his haying, however, and
had not got his haying nearly done.
There was some insurance on the bam
and contents but not enough to cover th
loss.
-Mrs.
1st,
(rordon rucnic on atiimav. and it was
Mate Line, . 11.. Aug. 14. tlugn H.lthoueht bv many that Barre ouirht to
Mahon, 31, and Fred Hodge, 21, both of
Marlboro, X. II., were instantly killed
early yesterday when Mahon's automo
bile crashed into a rapidly moving pas
senger train at the Boston Maine rail
road crossing here. The men were swept
of the cheerful outlook that obtained ; successful defenders of the American cup,
Charles J. 1 aine, a wen known officer in bv the train against the platform of the
inr r win uwnrr "i inree j mat jon
the night before. The men assert that
they refusel arbitration because the
railroads insisted on arbitrating their
"contingent proposition." The board of
mediators, in a statement last night, de
clared, however, the men rejected their
bXsitIonf ci'BtenJ:E Cat tUj vould
was announced to-day. He was 83.
"now'a your boy Josh petting along
with his studies!"
"Pleasantly," replied Farmer Corntas-K-L
"He don't bother 'em none." Woii-
icton Star.
have a bagpipers' band along with ith
musical organizations,
Each member of the Barre Board of
Trade with lady is expected to attend
the fourth pet -together, or better ac
quaintance tour to Suth Royalton Thurs
day evening. Aug. 17. Tickets for sup-
t-r, oO cents, winch includes supper and
of St. Johnsbury delivered
eulogy. The church was crowded with
; friends from all parts of the state. j
ri The Knights of Columbus and Catholic ;
Order of Foresters marched in the fu
neral procession, the fourth decree mem-
Miss Bella Thompson
Place kick for married
McDonald. 63 ft.
Clan quoits David Henderson
Alex Ogston 2d.
Youngest el gible clanjMian on the field
Francis Milne, son of Mr. and Mrs. John
Milne. '
I Oste prire for ladies Mrs. James 1 matches, Joseph D. Will acting as time
jRhind and Mrs. William Eraser. keejer. Samuel Cierrard and Alex Milna
(.iris rare (under 11 yesr, confined tOjWere the judges for the games, and Wil
' clansmen's daughters i Margaret Wilson, liam Meltonald the referee.
1st. Mary Burnett 2d. Kliabeth Carle 3d.j That the outing furnished recreation
Dart throwing contest William 'for oil and young alike and that Pnan
Hurrv. 'cially it was successful in a marked de-
I (.uessmg competition .Miss Kessie v il- gree are due in no smaii measure to xna
efforts of the general committee. l?onor
oers o, rue rwnms o. humous acting, shoo,ins rrie-A!e Riddel 1st, Frank !of pr.re, and those who acted as official.
Eaton. Levi H. Bixby. Fred Callahan,
John E. Flanagan and George D. Titkin
(contributed largely to the success of th
Wilson 2d.
Football competition Championship ' affair and others aided in one way and
won bv St. Andrews club: first round, another to make it enjoyable, in eom-
Catholic cemetery.
-,r 4. 1: J T-l it . .,:uii i' 1 1 ' i , ,. nisi rrun(4, noi' " - "J--.- -
Mahon was employed as a bookkeeper I a free automobile ride t5 South Royalton ' , T; . ' . ,""1'K"n Rang.-rs A defeated Rangers R. 5 to 0; I mitte c.nited of the following clans
.m ir Kam an. ha.-1 . . mm.A ' at 1 1. T - I ' -' ' ' - ... . ' . ... 1 , n . ' J . . . . , T ! ... . ,Il,um 14 , ifrr -h lf M fc
two weeks' vacation. Hodge was m-jt 5:13 o'clock. Help to make this trip
ployed as a workman in the same plant,! a nic-.,s and enjoy a f nil evening's en
snd was riding home with Mahon. The i tertsinment. including music by Carroll's
latter mother, who is "0 years old. was or-hetr. band comrts. ojwn-air dancr
second round. St, Andrew's defeated Ran-'men: William Huiry. chief; Alex Ed
cers A. 1 to 0. ward, secretary; Donald Leith, treasurer;
m T,xi. a nrA x I Sword dance Miss Joie Will 1st. Leslie! Koy McIV-nahl. Unist; Robert Pttr-
Aldnch Library Closed Wednesday. j M,Mr ,.. .rtnid- Thompson 3d. Ih.ii. jr.. junior henchman: Georg Cor-
The Aldrich public librarT will 1 i Hichland flinu Mercer !.t. Miss murk. William Black. Charles Barr. Wil-
pr.trs'H when she was infornif d of Ltr'and pitturrs of Parr- and her industry, rloscd all day Wednesday, Aug. 1, Bat-' l.;e Will 21. ,-rtru.ie Thompson 31. iliam Leith, Ducail L Ld and Barry P.
tJ t aon'a death.
TnktU tan be i'lutured ot U. A. Theirs,
tie of Ianuitcn day.
Robert Mutch reft reed the football lleuij.
