&
R FORECAST.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
to-morrow; contin-
erate winds.
ytnttriay, 54; lowest, 43,
fentlnmrino reports on page 1 1.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 237.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1916. Mm9uv i.
Sun Printing nnd Publishing Assoctntlon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
1
Overcast tBTym
WILSON NOT TO
RECALLTROOPS
AT THIS TIME
Yields to Pious of Scott and
Kinistou to Stay in
Mexico.
RKDISPOSTTION OF
FOHCKS IS PLANNED
CiiiTiinza lHon Concent rut
ins Obrcjjon to Confer
With Funston.
iiini)ton, April 13. For the pres
ent .it least the American forces nre to
,mn.i'!i in .Mexico.
. iiiifttin,-einciit to this effect was maile
lo-it.iy hy Secretary of Wiir Hakcr fol.
Inning :i conference with President Wil
son. The President approved nrccom
trend. tlon from Major-Gen. Kunston. In.
dnrsed hy Major-Gen. Scott, Chief of
Staff, that there should he a rcdlsposl
tlnn of the force of Gen. Pershing pend
ing diplomatic negotiations now In prog,
rcss between Oie State Department and
the de facto Government of Mexico.
The Secretary said :
Gen. l'unston recommends a rcdls
position of the forevs In Mexico for thJ
purpose of recuperation and pending
opportunlly for further cooeratlon
ilth the force of the do facto Govern
ment of Mexico, lllc recomtnenda
tlon has been approved and Its exe
cution left to hl.s discretion.
The conference between the President
nd Sioretary Maker followed a Ions
v.pd kept ut the War Department by
the litter pending the receipt and de
cii'her.ng of a lengthy rode despatch
from Gen. Scott, who went o San An
tonio to confer with Cn. l-"uiistoii.
Although It was almost 3 o'clock this
morning before tho task was completed,
the Secretary was lit the White House
liinrily before 10 o'clock to talk with the
President. Itis statement quoted above
. I sin-il following his return to the
War Department.
i
.eueilliitlon to f.n tin.
Ff ritary liiising. wlnl" admitting
to-nlghl that the negotiation? with Car
mi.i.i would now pi on. declined to
stale when ho would send u formal re
rlv to Carranz.i'H request for a with
drawal of the troop or whether i-uch
reply will be preceded by Informal con
feiuiccs held cither here between him
fif and Li I mo Arredoudo. Carranza'
s T.b.iador designate, or at Mexico city
be'ween Special Agent Kodgcrs of the
Slat'- Department and Gen. Carranza.
Gen. Scott Is expected to remain a
few da. longer on the border In confci
f e m Jth Gen. Funston. Secretary
Baker took the ground that ho could
rot discuss In detail the recommend
ton of Gen Kunston, but would not
d"y that one of the steps that prob
My v 111 hp taken will b a relocation
ef tlic l.irdpr ba.-c from Columbus, N. M.,
t I' csd o. Tex
"The statement made," explained the
SV rftar- to-night, with reference to the
frin il announcement he Issued earlier
tr '" u.iv, "Indicates nothing whatever
- to the time of withdrawal of the
A'lier.-an troo. The whole subject of
tf r rilf..np In Mpvtrn Is ilnilr nr. I
tf. mements mid negotiations conducted ,
l1 the State Department." I
The Secretary added that the proposed I
r' msition of the forces has nothing
to 1)0 with the attack which was made
b Carranzistas nt Parral on the Amerl- 1
an fore. under .Major Tompkins, which 1
r. Ui nt he said apneaied to have nassed 1
ove- vvth no recurrence of hostile out
creak"
Must Kxiiet'l Troulile.
At the tuna time It Is understood In 1
Wi Department elides that the whole
. ' ,.ll .III. Ill LllllL-ll .11.11 ill,: H IIUL
rpose of the Joint report of Gen. Scott ,
1 Ger Funston Is that the military
purpose
-nl
Heps to be taken mut be made with
th p,u-e blllty. If not probability, of
fun . trouble with the Carranza foices.
U Uie meantime tho chase after Villa .
fca been temporatlly halted. Although !
the A lerii'.ni trnonu lira u.lil to Via In
en, a . ai.i.... r I
- .moo .lie si..,,..,,. no. i,
""IM, 'lielr long chase has t red them .
a... . .... ..... . ... . '
ovinia lo me lacii OI nay leeo ,
the hoisej of the cavalry. Gen.
r-irMon ieooite.1. a.e. showing such1
s.sns of wear that lingo numbers of
The
n advanre or withdrawal of the ex-
i,o" What It nrohablv means, it .
isivetl. is that Gen. Funston. nend-
.
re f j-ther development of the negejtla-j
s beiween the State neriamnent and
" i 'in,, inn nave io ne se-cureu.
"IT'ortytilty for "teeupcratlon." there- , to Wllmeidlng. where the vtesiingiinuse preuicici mai ine striKers would again ....... -.liv n.rminv .11,1 not wouiu-sateiy lie passed, accoidlng to Turkish regiment, was v
foe. is neeilfd. Airbrake Company's plant is located. necome violent tn-moriow, when the .,... , ... .nii,i her ortlclals here. Hie I'ulted States, It Is a a result of the wounds.
From a mll.taiy standpoint, army I According to strikers many union company will try to lesume work, The f,,.rrU..n months afierward we ' "M'.'-mol. is perfectly wllllng-to cor.- still another version l
nm-irs explained, the redisposltlon of leaders In the Airbrake plant have slgnl. iincomprlslng attitude of the National '.,,,; ri,.n, tr i:'..,'nnv ' """" "cgotlallotis with ltcilln relative , after Uie taking of Tre
' t inns t,nir,oseil ml"l,f nreeede either . fle.l their intention of Joining the electric fiunrdsmen and the stern manner n ... ... .. ...,.. ,, :. to the entire Issue, the Sussex case In- for.-eil to ride tblitv miles at
''nan.., rinds It Imperative to con- It Is estimated by the leadeis that within
cemi.,te !,H fou-es and guard agalnst'n few days more than 2.1.000 Westing-
' u.O.tles. ' house employees will be on strike.
t end It Is understood that Gen. I
f ' Mon and Oen. Scott are of the . n ..,
f' '-'it at would be extremely MAY AVERT HARD COAL STRIKE
W,ir,i..,c. t continue the effort to,
Hie lengthy line of communl- '
w ued. ly moving tlie bor-
(1,
Ik,
'- in Presidio the line could he
e,! Il .iMoroxllntely miles.
W ha ' the precnt distance,
l"o ,l iniinuea In love,
1"b.' would accomplish two results; It
.oui.j ,. n,,, pIOhem of provisioning
tic Hoop, j,,,,) reenforclng them easier
" w mill i nable lieu. Pershing to uo
I'd
In
ami ! wy swing his
llnej eastward
'warn PickI.IIo
'' iid.ng ilevi'loinnent of ih illnlnm.'.Hn
' I'JJOI
I'M ',
'Ions it In probable that Gen.
- Will slmiilv Mil tll'lll ill the .1,1.
vaiiii t ,c dei'ldcd on and practl-
''' g himself In,"
I'-' Uf.ct of this, ,11 Is pointed nut,
jvoui.i i, to ,M,ourage the .Mexicans
''i ..t inlilng him mid by convlnclnr
Hint iho United .States Is do-
e-,i, Kl, t n hou. vuyt per.
""'' i, ici to t,i(0 tho necessary slops
"i 'I" h.i, ulifs ciiptiirn rather than lo
' ' e iiiipopul.irlty of permitting tho
, 11 liemps an extended stay In
"i.v Iminedlille kuccsh Is golne
"I the cftoi-ta of the Htnte Oe
' 1 ni gel tho "further coopera-
nid at la icgiinlcd us dubious
C'liiKnituI on iS'duini 'Hoe.
c
'" ' - vo "in v , t the front ' l Ihe mine ".v'","f S" 1Mnna r0."' members of his family, lie wlll see lloil, Ambassador Gerard and Consul-
I i , . ii .i e'?",d. ., li . i m otV.V -i.i tho heirs at law would have little '.11(11- no visitors to-mnirow. Tuesdav or General Lay In llerlin have reported to
"I'.c V v''. m T;"'nT ,f ,'c1' '" th', ' ' Slf;P,ieWI''n,1? of: 1,1 h..lnir llml Giace McLaughlin ' Wednesday. If he obey, Ihe orders of hi' tbJ "stale P . ,m il Americans"
1 rs"",,,".,0,.,.lm" 'M1'. I ce''. nr r!"? ?,?S,I'..T'1.. 'h".wa unsound, both In body and mind. 1 Physicians, who have urged him lo take Ge,,
nil ,,, . ... ....... . ai ..... . - . ...i.. . r. . ............ -- --- ............. j .....p.. ...w,. kuiiui i , ,-,i oiiie, ie Kit'? p il ni.Li-iiu .
g II :ee h,." , ,. r I . eoiiveiitloii lo be held In Pots. ":,oro ",lc' .'"rP tlio Mtresnior nroxy ,n or.irr io recover cullies which they would find, them-
t.it 1 111 1 1 ii f ninn nun t im i i :nti ' hm.iip win iirKiiiiiiiiiif-u in iiir iiniit'iN i . . ... .. - i- . . . . . .
he vi-miu r niabn, V: n to! ' .. . :.'.'. .'. . . wo.uo ?':". " . V."'" ' mrn"0 "", selves in case ,,r a diplomatic .break.
OBREGON AND FUNSTON
TO CONFER AT BORDER
The Two Generals Will Discuss Withdrawal of United
State Forces Special Agent Rodgers to Take
Up Note With Carranza To-day.
j tiitrial (nblt fiespntth to Til Sex.
I Munich Crrr, April 23. .lames I.lnn
I ltudgci, special representative In Mex
ico of the Stale Department, will have a
lengthy conferenco with Carranza and
Oen. Obregon to-morrow morning re
garding Gcji. Obregon's going north to
discuss the American expedition Into
Mexico with Gen. l'unston.
A conferenco hero was to have been
held this afternoon, but Gen. Obregon
spent tho entire afternoon with Cairanza
and his Generals, preparatory to his
meeting with Mr. Kodgcrs.
A note from tho Amctlcaii Govern
ment, replying to Minister of Foreign
Affairs Agullar'H latest requirement for
the wlthdiawal of the American troops,
1 Is expected momentarily by Hodgcrs. lie
I hopes to know the contents of this note
bernro to-morrow's conference Is held.
The tequcst for Gen. Obregon to confer
with l'unston camo from Gen. Kunston.
It Is believed tho American Government
Is willing and Obregon will bo able, of
tlclalN think, to convince Kunston of the
advisability of retiring tho American
troops in view of Carr.mz.i's measures
to stamp out Villa's followers.
Special Itepresentntlve Hodgem has re
celved n telegram from tho American
consular representative In Puebla, say
ing that the Governor of that State has
published n declaration regarding the
International situation arising from the
Parral Incident. The Governor warns
Americans residing within his Jurisdic
WESTINGHOUSE MEN
URGED TO GET GUNS
Afritntnr Tells 2.000 of 1 :t.OO0
Strikers It's "Time for
Preparedness."
RIOTING FEARED TO-DAY
PiTTSBi.-i'.n. April 23. -Placing a riot
gun on a table In front of him and then
holding a revolver aloft. Kred II, Mer
rick, former editor of Justice, a Social
ist publication here, urged the strikers
at the Wstlnghouse Klectrlc and Manu
facturing Company to arm themselves at
a meeting of the strikers In Singer Hall,
Kast Pittsburg, this afternoon. Two
thousand str.lkers were crowded In the
hall, and Mil rick's utterances were
filtered.
"According to the Constitution of the
United States and of Pennsylvania
every American citizen has a right to
keep a gun in his home." shouted the
speaker. "I want every one of jou to
get a gun and hide It in your borne and
be prepared. He sure that you have
plenty of ammunition. This Is a time
for prc;vt redness."
Mcirlck was arrested In connection
with violence among Illinois in the Cabin
Creek strike in West Virginia several
yars ago and often has had cl.isheB
with the police in times of labor dls-
turbances, With 13,000 men now out.
liadess of the stilke say they expect
8,00a more Wctlnghouse workmen to
milt to-morrow. .
To.morrow Is pay day for the men,
and after the Inflammatory speeches this
afternoon rioting is feared. All saioejn-
keepers have agreed to keep their places
closed till 7 oclock In the evening, and
errorts will rw matte I)V tne l.asi I'llis-
nurc oorougn omcia is, omciais m wie
company ana o.v sirme i n iu rci,
.. - . , . . . ...
"'uor from bolnK s,ent lo b0,"?"
-vonB ".1fi t,ea'''! lu'",l,lT,, "Ti
I"' '"c meeuns weie ahui , -i. ".
leader of 3,000 women tnkers ; j uke
Lucox, u leader durliw the Westing-
nouse sinae. in ww. ..w,.
member of the shop grievance commit-
tee.
a .t.itenirnr of the strikers'
lemar-is,
: I..-"' u.... .i.... o.,.l
mciu.iiiig an nmu o.-u, ......
..e .1 yVinr, emnlovees. was
i-.,v.,,n.t , o--.
sent to the company this afternoon.
Several thousand strikers. Including
many women, will axsemble in l-.ast
Pittsburg to-morrow morning aim marcn
plant strikers. Strike leaders say that
emnluvees In the P ttsburg Meter orlts, ,
Fast I'lttsburc. and the Union Switch i
' . ... ,. i.
and Signal works. Swissvale, both
Inshnusa concerns, will Join their ranks. !
( o,,lnee of Whole Wlll Consider
Operators' Terms.
The suli-comnilttee of the anthiaclte
Cs.ra.ors and miners discussed again
yesterday the pioposal of the operators
for an agreement for the anthracite fields
and adjourned to meet to-day. It was
i
said that when the sub-rommlttce con-
ludcs the discussion a meeting of the
KhoillU Uie -oiUHHUr oi uie wiidic !
... .. . m I
ceyit the PnloH. It Is believed that n I
general sttlke will ne nvertea. .
$150,000 FIRE IN WASHINGTON.
T . ' Stevens's wife hud obtained a divorce
Nouthrrn nnllvTBy' nullrllnKia Khort time before. Under ths will,
I. Partly lle.trojed. I which McGonlslo threatens to conlest,
Wasiiisotok, April 2.1. A llro whlih
started Just before midnight threatened
the destruction of the large building con.
lalnlng the general offices of Ihe South
em Hallway, but was soon under con
trol. The loss Is estimated at $150,000.
The blaze, ffrst observed in Ihe of
flrc of Vlee-Piesldeiit Culp, spread rap
idly through Ihe upper floors, Several
clerks and telegraph operators who were,
at work and were cut off clambered
down the fire escapes.
tion to leave and avoid occasioning
trouble.
Mr. Itodg says lis understands Ihe
Governor's warning was friendly. He
adds that Americans have not heeded It
ami have not lieen molested.
Bl l'Hcbto published u editorial to
day In heavily leaded type entitled "In
Peace or In War," In which after re
capitulating M o's request for the
retirement of Americans out of the
north, or Mexlcr It savs;
"As is seen, the Government of our
country, which was willing to be the
Initiator of the form In which the Im
mediate solution of the conflict might
have been reached, enforces respect for
the dignity of our nation, requiring that
troops which crossed tho frontier be
retired.
"it Ij to be loped that the American
Government nrccdes to the very Just
demand of ours. It Is to be thus hoped.
Iiecaue that Is the only manner of
bringing to a good end the pending con-
fllct. for otherwise the Mexican neonle
know only too well that the chief of the
republic, who In dlllicult moments, as
has been repeatedly demonstrated to
th entire world, has known how to
spurn pretensions or attempts to Inter
vene in our Internal affairs, v 111
likewise to-da sustain very high the
banner of national decorum."
Th ' article concludes by referring to
tl.i popular manifestations In honer of
Cnrraiua, saying:
"They are Irrefutable proof of the con
fidence and support of Mr; Carranza on
the part of all Mexican people. They
arc willing to follow him in his hlch
labor whether lt.be in peace or In war."
TWO GUARDSMEN AT
HASTINGS POISONED
i
Sentries- Mmle I'm-oiiM-ionx by
Aeeeptinir Drink From
Supposed Striker.
'
SEIK'l!l(t PVnTIK rl"i j
" '
' '. , 1 .April - - - I WO
tlonal Guardsmen on strike dutv btre
..... , . . " . , .
were made unconscious to.niR.it hy drink -
lug from a bottle offered to them by nn .
unknown man nrpposed to be one of the I
striking employees of the National Con
dull and Cable Company.
The two militiamen, members of Com
p.iny it, in .viount Vernon company ofisaii.if oi icier aim ormrr; .mo ii ,
the Tenth Infantry, which with three trnuMr In the camp. because we have
other companies frcm l'lusliing, L. I.;
Yonkers and Wh'tc Plains came here
last Wednesday when the strikers became
riotous, were on sentry duty at the time
They were supposedly guarding the com-
pauys plant.
At '.' o'clock the two men staggered up
u iieifiaooriiij; liost
no.l u.il.1 ik.r e-1. ,11 n ... I
...... .... .ii. i'viui 1 ne coiliu 1
move, both had fallen to the ground and train the men who shall manage - " e.. 01 ir..o a.s . -All
eToits to rouse them from tlndr t the ' formidable and delicate median- 1 dross in 'onities- on Ueilnesday. The
stupor failed, as did efforts to "cer aln , m il war Ambassador hurried from the state De-
who cave them the drink and what w". ' "Twentv-one months have passed since Partincnt and at on. e e.,t he purpoit of
tho fluid In the bottle. The two men the great war began, .mil during all this t to l.erlin. at the same time embody
were taken within the troops- camp In time wo have nt prepared in even the 'ig h. personal vlev.a as to tha beat
one of the co.ru.aiiyV buildings and ' smallest degree In order, if pos-lble. to immediate move for the i.erman Gov-
treateil liv the liostiltnl cnti.. rri.,.i.. 1
dltlou was unkiiottii at a late hour to- '
night.
1
the town auilineiiiA. 1
Immediately
were notified, and 111 a shot t time seatch-
lug parties of National Guardsmen, led
by the chief of police, were hunting for '
the supposed striker Thcv were armed '
with a John Hoe warrant whiei. h.ii '
l.een applied for by Village President 1
1;. J, doodwln, 1
Col. J. W. Klein and Major II. .1 Good-
wln rlen e.l th.'il the mm, l...i 1.0 .
unconscious m the manner stated, and I
iniormation was lefuse, at the camp.
. ... .-...., ... ....
Col. Klein would not s.iy whether the
mvn "''" on sentry duty at the time.
in wnicn case their taking a drink would
be a serious offence. The names of the
men were refused
vv i en u,e guain was clianged near
midnight there was still no Information !
forthcoming about the men's condition
or names. They weje attended, It was I
...... x...' ......... .... ..I,..
s,. ... ,j ,,,, , ,eKnm-niai
soreeon i.nil n f Im u-opilu nt .., ,.e il.a
rlmU.ior icncls iftOil
oncoming sentries, were still "knocked n,lU" j"" r " mM hnse ml Uv
out cold." ..sue n a cm w ' "' 1
Aitnougn lucre na ne.-n little utsorler
in i le ian i.iy or iwn. n uas neen rreciy
which they suppressed what trouble there
wns nave angeieii the Milkers, and It Is,
the belief of the local police that some
.1.. I .li J . .i ...
West-(Striker gave the soldiers drink from n I
di ugged flask.
TQ rjfjUT ELOPER'S WITT
1U tlUiii XiLUJrLK O WILL.
, 7 .
Me-I.nunlilln Heirs nt Law tliniiM
rcrinh. Start CoiHest.
, l - is-njon uyr i ie -:u,"0, WW or
. tlie late Inmty Police Clilef Patrick H.
i McLaughlin, the bulk of which wns be-
'lueauic.i, io .e orge , mevciis, a i garage I
ZAM& only 'chlid.' i'A: '
u, seemed certain last night, although
Uejils McGnnlgle, one of McUiughlln's
"cini ws ami spo csmnn ior tne otner
reififlveM titfltiiltffwl 110 lififl ttnt d r uaao
'e ,e '
x,;,.QM,cle. a bor., l.rlekt.tvee -he. '
H,, i ...i ,. r n. t..f .u.
Ilr,,Prtv , HtPV,.nH.
M) McLaughlin eloped with Stevens
I while he was still married tu another
woman, and was married to him In
Havana recently, Just before she died.
i sexerai i anion" uisiuuiioiis in lirnoK-
lyn get Iho bulk of tho estate In the
event of Stevens's failure lo Inherit.
Rnek After Detention by Hrlllah.
Th" Gteek linn steamship Vasllnfs
Conslanllnos, In yesterday from Plru-us
and Glhinltar, brought Ilodolfo llalnr,
an American cltlsen of Hungarian
birth, who sailed from this port on her
two months ago. Tho British took him
off at Gibraltar, but he rrovrd his Amer
ican citUenihlp.
T. R. WOULD LEAD
SONSINTOBATTLE;
Itonily (n Flfflit, but Thinks;
Wilson Pollry Menus (
Mitny Don llis.
l)t?K TO NEGLECT TO A MM
Thinks Nation Must Pay
Dourly nt Stnvt If There
Is Wnr.
Gtstkr Hat, April 23. If the 1'nlled
States should go to war the noose-,
velts will gn to the battle, line
all of them. Col. Iloosevelt said so to -
day In a statement called forth by the
recent appeal, "Stand by the President."
He spoke for Ihe men who would have
to do the fighting an-1 who would die In
thousands because of the country's un-
J Preparedness. Col. Iloosevelt said;
Men nie saying that tlipy stand be
hind the President or by the President.
I wish to speak for the men who, In the
event of war, will stan.l in front of the
President and between him and the
foreign enemy and who therefore wilt
stand between dange.r and the men who
are behind or besldo the President.
"These are the men who will go to
the wnr at once if there Is war with
Germany or with nny other great
Power and who feel, as I do, that we
would far rather go to war unprepared
than see our women and children mur-
I dered with Impunity and the honor of
tne nag stained.
Premium to I'.nlrr rm.
"Hut It l a wicked thing that the
folly of our rulers in obeying the behests
of the peace at any price people and of
uie uposiiv 01 anu-nrc parcuncsH snnuiu ,
. . . ' .
neemess.y a,i appaumgiy wastetu: in ,
l,,no'1- 1
III the event of Mich a war my four
sous will go. and one and perhaps both
of my sous-lndavv , 1 will go myself,
the oung kinsfolk and friends of my
sons will go; so m vvoids ate spoken
with my ejes open.
"It is of small cniiseipience what hap
pens to us of the older generation; hut
MIL 'Il , .11111 "l lit' ..UMI. .
" Sf- ''' h,,t tn"lr " and '
gallant lives should be sacrificed, not to I
.,. ,,,,. ,,tll to ,ne nation i
folly. 1
"I would far rathei re tbem dead than j
see them flinch fiom their duty when the .
honor of our people Is concerned, but If
we, now go to war. these young men
and' all their fellows will die In thou-
mi(, ,, wuW )m0 hi, care for
them have not been trained In advance,
. .
"M'"' Kr ,tn,t hrrr,t r"l'' '
"They will be butchered needlessly
u hattle because we nave laiieci 10 pre-
pare masses of artillery and machine
use . ""
masses or antiiery ami mac.i.ne
guns alio mun'i .11..0-. ......
...... 1 e,lt..,l In nrovlde
aeruiuaiii's, ..mi in...- ........
... .-.it-
from US. or. If it isjUKI HOI DC
averted, to wage it cllic'.ently and sue-
cessfully
"The oariilst nnd anti-prep iredness
people have had their will and our rulers
at Washington have bowed to them and
left us helpless and, with blind fatuity,
they said they did this In the Interests of
nui.
"When will our people learn that the
peace of unpreparedness s the peace of
lowardice and folly and may a anytime
i.,.i tn overwhelm nir disaster.
rii-rmnii) Misled, lie n.
Fourteen mont'i. ten we notified Gr-
mv"h'a
' . ' ., ... a .... ,i,i
.. .Li". . ,,i.iiiiv- st.ieh
,m,.i.i nlv he liisillle.'l If im.
: ",,,7.,.. ,. nil i tl oroughcolug fashion
' ,
we had bent our every energy to the task , ' . " "f" " ' Secret:..-,
of preparing and therefore showing that '( f ;' ' humiliate cess.ulo,
we meant what we said and that we pos. f, . ,' mi,flnV. '''"''I'-Hg-i as he ...
l,..,l. ..Ill ..,,,1 the ..mver lo"'1' feature to the present cllsls.
w,
we
, ,.... ,,. wlll .,. ti,P nnwer to
Sesseu umn ine will alio me m.
. ' . . CP or war it..". w sat
. - ... . , ...,,., nrc.
.,.. ,,,' .,r'aiii,.A .i.n. I
,.. ' ,.. ,.ii.!.i i.
.';.'!
I l t UUlil illtif limililMit liriuni II ,
ago wo had so acted
J, ', ,;ormnv (n,
!,... .... .,.... ...i,.. .....
.,., ,.,. n,,e.
'inters it Washington 'will have'been
proved 'responsible for tho blood of the
fnKTf pi?crUl "en. women nnd '
children win i lave 1 een III led
I cuiioreii iiiiiiu. ,
See. Crime tunlnst Nalluii.
" . .i.
"If she does not yield we are then
. ....... .. i... e ..i.u .....i
i lumr.nn. mnnths w.. have f.,l!e,t to nre. '
pi,rH even the smallest degree. i
t S'tiZ:
months, when even a child ought to have'
heen what was Impending, has repre-1
sented a folly so extreme that In Its ef-
i . ....... nl . i.. i.i..a v... ...... .
' o-', " .i.,i. o v.i.L ...
" , Z . 'I. """"' V
.ktii -.xet tu ,e,,i i
troubling him had dlsappcatcd In a lare. I
measure. 1
lie win motor to .New voik to.mor-'
row to see Or, Ilolbrook Curtis, throit I
specialist, hut ho will letum to Oyster
Hay at once and without stopping tit any
place whero callers might find him.
TYPHUS BACILLUS FOUND.
IIiimIsii Professor mid Woman
Physician Iteporl ni.covery.
Sfirclnl Cubit Despatch to tnr. Si'K
Paius, April 23. Tlie Petrograd corre
spondent of tho Tempi telegraphs:
"The Tied Cross announces that Prof,
Nedlgojel and a woman physician, Dr.
nourov-a, who are working on the west,
ern front, have discovered the bacillus;
ot exanthematlc typhus."
m) BREAK, IS SENTIMENT IN GERMANY;
WASHINGTON IS MORE ENCOURAGED;
HARDEN PLEADS
President Hopeful That U
Hoats Are Already Vn
der Restraint.
WILLING TO WAIT
I'NDKW ASSURANCES
,
I. . , , . . , .,
' " "SOU S Alt.MOtlS tO AVOKl
Caiisiiio- llerlin Any
Kmliarrassineiit.
W.vsni.MiTox, April 23 - Secretary
Lansing said to-night that no reply has
ct come from Germany to President
Wilson's note demanding that the Ger
man Government "immediately declare
and effect an abandonment of Its piesent
methods of submarine warfare." Tho
American note has now been four days
beforo tile Imperial Government.
The determination on the part of the
Imperial Government not to hurry Its
reply is causing concern here, but on
the other hand the nppaicnl cessation
or submarine act Miles in the war zone
Is rcR.udid as cncounigiiitr
Ptesldent Wilson had ai ranged for n
conference with Senator Stone, chair
man of the Senate Kotoigu delations
Committee, at the White llouso to
moriow night. hut this confer-
lias now been postponed
(, ,,t,.r m th
eel. Senator Stone
ena.o Informed of
"icsiies 10 hoep the Senate Informed of
,. o(r(.lu, fronl Ilt.rill, blU ,he
Prestdent has no new, of i,nnor,a,u.
, , ,
I to lommuiilcatc. Ainhassador Geiaid.
It Is exnlaltied. Is keeohir ibe sunn lie.
partincnt advisvl. but he is unablo to I
make any prediction.".
The appal cut lull In submarine ac
tivities Is a feature of the situation that
officials heii- view with Intetest After
.
''e despatch of the President a note the
Indiscriminate attaeUt ici I'oimneicc car-
rler. In the war zone apparent!, cease.1
, Whether this Is mere), rolucldcnco
or the lesttlt of urgent orders to the
German submarine commanderM Is not
known here, but officials arc hopeful It i
may lie the lesult of the first despatches j
which Count von IternstoilT. the German
Ambas.-ador. sent to the Foreign Offlco
afu.r jj,.,.,,,,.,. .nK him the
text of the Piet-id nt s note
Violinssii.lor's linli'L clloii. I
Count von Itci nstni-ff is understood to
believe that It was essential for subnia
line artlvity to cease while the highly
critical dls.-usslon with Hie I'lili.-il stm,,.
.,..,. ,lrv ;
1,1,,, -, ,.e
lll" P
the
Ann rlcan note two
i..,f... .1... r... .t . 1 .,
einimm 10 oi.ise
1 lie .xmn.ihsaiior i- ep( ctcil to i. turn
" mm in nine ,
to confer with Secrotarv Lansmg again
to-morrow ins visit will iiave the
double object of discussing the subina-
i.ne issue and t lie status of the case
of Wolfe von Igel. attache of tin; Ger-
'man Lmb.issy, whose papers the State
Iepat tinent has promised to rttiiru to
tho Ambassador The seizure of these
papeis by agents of the IVpartinent of
IoaMo :iih1 th.. nrr.,.i rf v.... 1....1 ..i...
has now been leleascd on ball, have
luenight emphatii protests from tho Im-
'c"al Government.
,f "" '"" "' Mihmailne a.tlv.ty Is
traceable to ofrlrlal Instructions from
lb" German Government, the Stale In-
late )v-
P'rtnient here will legal d
thls .is
uistinciiy ravoiatile sign
that Pi.sldent Wilson
dlstlnctly favoiable sign. Il Is admltlej
and .Secretary
Shouiii Germany declare a willing
ness temporarily lo abandon the sub
marine campaign while negotiations with
th" I niled htates are being conilticted,
' uiosi cnitciu Mage or the crls's
eluded, provided llerlin will call an Ini-.
meiiiaie uau in in activity or sulnna-,
.
"".,, ., ...
" i'i...,i. .. i i i uas
demanded that Getmany Immediately
"'Ul'llir'' ' rfocl" 1111 abandonment of
l)leHrM- methods, which means that tho
V,,1''r " ""'V'' ml,s' I1''1'1111,1' l? lW;
Unlled Mates that present methods cf,
submarine activity have been abandoned.
11 added that the President would
probably not be disposed lo Insist upon
an Inmieillate public declaration piovldcd '
oe lino orivaie ass ii-uiices ni (icrmnn
Milium rlnes had been ordered peremptor-
ny io cease n.cgai auacas, I
. He.lre ... Kmbar j
The President. It Is said. Is not ills-
posed lo embarrass the German Govern-
ment with Us own people by Insisting
. . ... I
''V 'niu uiignt . ous mer a niiuitiia.
.V,'.'.h..... V" ! . .. V.'?' "
. . . ' Jl.... "", ".
and do not wish to leave If Ihey can help
u. whllo othera have no funds to denart
with.
There are a number of American mii'l-
cal students who have been pursuing
their studies despite the war nnd many
American girls are among them, They
I fear that mall may he Interrupted and
their remittances from home thereby
cut oir. noin tne emoassy nun ine con
sulate havo been besieged with Ameri
can visitors seeking advice.
Ambassador Gerard and Mr. Lay have
standing Instructions from Iho Slate
Department to advise Americans lo leave
If they have no good reason to remain
and to render such assistance as pos
sible, but there Is no particular fund
nt Ihe disposal of the embassy for fur
thering this work. It may bo necessary
lo provide one In case there Is a general
rush of Americana y leave.
HARDEN INDICTS GERMANY
FOR GOADING UNITED ST A TES
Editor of "Zukunft" in an Imaginary Message by Presi
dnnt Wilson Calls for Complete Protection of
American Lives at Sea.
Vr. '.'., Iletpiltch to Tne Scv.
IlKiiM.N, via London, April 23. Proba
b;y the most remarkable article which
him yet come from the pen of Maximilian
Harden, editor of the Zukunft, appears
in esterday's Issue of that organ under
the title "If I Were Wilson." Hnrden
writes nn imiginnry message for th
American President. It Is a stinging lij
dlclment of Germany's relations with
America.
I'nder this thin disguise the editor
warns Germany of the untenable nature
of her demands and of the consequences
that must Inevitably follow a break
a It li Anictlca. The message Includes tho
following,
"Germany accuses us of helping her
enemies with war material. We of the
l.'tilted States have the right to do It.
'German Industry In all modern wars,
notwithstanding German neutrality, has
delivered to one party and often both
weapons and munitions. The use of their
undoubted rights by our manufacturers
has brought bitter reproach from the
Germans. 1'roni this error ramc forth
the poisoning of many of these peoplo
with the thought that they must revenge
theinseUes in their ne.v home for the
supposed vvtong done to their Father
land
Proofs of suc'i crlmina actions II.
our archive. For such lif-nnle In
In our
I bite out from our country the niot taxty
,.'.".. ..... .... Ti
i.lulriI fruits, and a. the llrst
"n" " "'"""inai .runs, ami ai uie nrsi
-ur.,i
, "..- . V. " ' '.!',"
.,, .,,, ... .:... i...V, LTS
"" ",i"mrt .if,. "." w
",,rK itusi.iu roianu and ly agita-
tlonsand llery speeches and the endan-
gerlng of munitions factories to frighten
Germany Into cnm.ty against Russia?
s our demand, our right not eoual
to that of Germany '
' "I demand that Getmany shall publicly1
VON DER GOLTZ WAS '
SLAIN, ATHENS HEARS!
I (i'ii ill ot lMie to Natural
(.'aiiM'si. Say lleports From
Paris Also.
.'litajl ablt Dni.alcK to Tnr. Sr
Atiik.ss. via Home. April 23 It Is re-
ported hete that the death of FieM Mar
sh. il von der Goltz was attended by most
mste:lnus cjr uni'lanccs and was not
due to n.iiiu.il caustH.
Il is leartnd that Von der Goltz ar
rived tu Constantinople a week ago and
was in excellent health. lie rInCted to
go to IJeilm to confet with the Kaiser.
He died on Apr il IS The news was
wahheUl until announced
otllcialiy In
liernn last i rmay
J VKRSIOXS OF DEATH.
tknhinllfin, tVo Ii mid I'.l-
posnrr Vnrlously tserlbed.
iee. faltlt Ifnpntclt . TlIK n
LoNpoN, April 23. The Paris presi
nA. ...... ii.. n..nc.i..... .I.... .1... ..'iIiiom of motest to b. .ruined dmtne the
Field .Marshal von der Goltz was doe
to natural causes. T,ej base their sus- 10,000 membeis, one alone having 2,600
plclon on the fact that, although II Is I membet s sent telegrams of proteit.
stated that he was 111 for ten dajs. no;, Mot of the messages went both to the
Pievlous mention had been made of his 1 blent and lo the .-senators and ion-
lllnes-. The Geiinan papers of Am II 21
reptcsent him as active at the front and)
also as on the eve of going lo llerlin.
It H rumored that the Field Marshal
was assassinated In Constantinople at
..... . ..
the moment of departing, Another
version Is that he sought death on the
Armenian bittleflelds because he was
convinced that his work in organizing
the Tmklsh armies was doomed to col-
lape. According to this verslou he
charged with his staff at the head of a
vounded nnd died
that he fted
Treblrond and,
nlzbt over I
terrible roads and In severe weather. I
was taken ill
11 "' 1 " 1,1 "!" von oer uouz
w no milieu to Msr ituiteu. u s ion or
l.tete. when the latter at the beginning
of the war vomplalned of the excesMs of
(jeniu soldiers; "Wo shall conquer,
Monslgnor. and glory will efface all."
Thelllsho replied: "And If you are
nnt ctorousr n suggestion which
I1ia,)e Von der Golr. burst Into laughter.
wbhw uwkiv iiuM ilk- ' I wki. v
rnn.-a.ii. Troop. "In Xll.ere.hle
M-.e." . Pe.ro.r-d P-prr.
SperM CM, T,tpitch to Tar Prv.
1inpov. Anrll 2.1. The Hourr On.
rrtle of Petrograd sav's that the "break-
' .
Mown of the Turkish Empire Is Im-
mmeni nnn s.a.es tnat tne uirK.sn
lorces in tne Caucasus are "in a miser
able stale."
The following official statement re
garding the operations of the army of
the Caucasus was Issued to-ilay by the
Husslan War Office;
At AsiiKuia, west or i.rzeium. tne
Turks were repulsed. Our surprise
counter nllfieli riitilltrerl t.n hinnr nlil
At Asbkala, west of F.rzcium, the
counter attack captured an Important
enemy position
U BOATS WITHOUT PERISCOPES.
l.ate.l German Crnfl Fire nelntr
nrfce, Sr Nevrapnprr.
i'ridl Cabl, Ptipitch to Tnr Six
Lonpox, April 23. The Geneva cor
respondent of the Daily Krprrax (piotes
German newspnpers as saying that the
latest German submarines, nre equipped
with an invention enabling them lo dis
pense with periscopes.
The invention is urscrlhed as a kind of
reflector enabling the boats lo lite with-
out coming to the surface, so that hence
forth II will be Impossible to tell whether
a ship has been torpedoed or sunk by a
mine.
FOR WILSON'S SIDE
dissociate herself from ever community
of foolish patriots who misuse our hos
pitality to ijp,,et our civil peace.
"I demand that Germany without re
serve protect the life and property of
American citizens and that no longer
may the question of tho future of two
great peoples, whether they live In
friendship or In enmity, depend upon
the whim or the nerve of a joung sub
marine commander who wishes to serve
the fatherland and to carve his name
In the German oak and who only listens
to his ron-cienco when It says 'Down
with everything 1'
"The clever courage of such men Is
admired by eveiybody. hut their hoats
have not yet such u lined position In In
ternatlonal law iih Napoleon's 'Corsairs.'
"To give way would be reckoned by
neither side as weakt.vss. hut onlv as an
expression of the reasonable wish of
two nations to preserve friendly Inter
course. "The lenders of the empire's affairs
know what tho results of a breach would
be. our whole hemisphere, north and
south, would lie made the enemies of
Germany, and not only In war time.
Germany would lose all her ships In
American harbots ami would have to
reckon with a considerable Increase in
the enemy's tonnage. From the day of
'"r ui'-aco sue miuiii nave to provision
. navlll ,.ou(, fruTCfy , f ' ?nu'
n..- .... . .. 1 .. . MJ V"""
ueigium iiseu. iiolian
1 1.1 ' ...
""i"!""-" sen ior inn I nlted States
abu. to Klvp ,,,,',;,"" r '
able to give nothing more to strnimeis
"Whether nt such a high price the loss
?f '!'"." " W.ta.l.l through the lack of
r'.""' ""lining could be bought Germany
a line must oee hie. Th.n iho ,ie
Wile U'Olll.l (Iia.i i1l..nn...H I .... .
foreseeable distance is certain We
' should have a united front In America.
The Germans IHsl. .,,.1 a, . tt .l
,:, H,.nL n , ' . ' ""::"un-
Thlnf l.u that they are under the"
star and Stripes "
GERMANS HERE SEND
HOME A PEACE PLEA
I'uiver-itv l.easue Sns Wil
son's Note I s Not Pro voca
tion Churches Protest.
1
Mii-WAi Kix.. Awl 2.1 -The nustees
of the Genu in L'tiivctedty League of
America, with branches In all of the.
largo lilies, have sent a cablegram to the
Frledrkh Wllhelm University at Itcilln.
asking that PiesUlent Wilsons note be
not misinterpreted in Germany. The
message sas In patt
"We fear that eernianv may Inteipiet
the message of our President as a piovo- I
cation, folliculitis sun ly not Intended,
We are convinced that the majority of
the American people wish to have the
irlatlons of amity eMst which have al-
a,H existed between cnir countty and I
our country
The German Lutheran, llvangrllcal
and liefornied chinches of Milwaukee
to-night belli congregational meetings to
decide on repiesenetatlons to Washing
ton against the Wilson note.a and while
some defened action, or will mall resolu-
week. Mne churches, with a total of
I Kiessmen. Immanuel Lutheran, repre
anting i'.tdw memners. sent mis mes-
' sage.
......... .... ..... ... r... ............ ...I
i-nnii ill,- in "in i I'liiii,.,,,,,
' of the opinion that to embroil the
. ...... ... ...... ...in. ......
I lll.ro .in.n ill ,.i... ni,., i .u-
belligerents nt thl time would be noth-
Ing less than a ciimlnal atct. The male
members of the congregation mot em-
phatlcally enter this protest against any
such action."
HOME RUN BAKER CONVERTED.
He nnd I'einr Other VnnUer
Itllly iinda, Trail.
lilt
Hvi.timoiie, April 23 A sensation oc -
curred this evening In ..lily Sunday's
waig, " MJLV T Franklin mome
Hauler wmi four mCnmbels"
''reToo'trlluXts , a,..
but none seemed so welcome as the dla -
mniid stars. Ilesldrs Maker there were,
Hoone, the second baseman; Cook, the '
outfle.der; Mullen the tlrs. lusemau;
alters the catcher, and Ihigan. the
JanUeo trainer, who came over fro,,,,
Washington for the evening service. ,
lloone was the first to hit the trail
and Maker, Cook. .Mullen and W.i ters
(soon followed. As the hero of Trappe.
Md.. started down the sawdust aisle with
the other Yankee n layers n cheer :.
, '
ral!,"'
AIR RAID ON BALTIC ISLAND.
len German Filer llomlinrd tern -
drome on Oriel.
, ,. ,., , ,
Spmut ( able liripatrh r Tnr siv
nuu.iN, via Amsterdam, Anrll 22.
i Tm, following statement was Issued bv
ls Admiralty to-night : '
1 ..
-ien or our aeroplanes successfully
bohtb.'.r.'id til .iciodruivie At r.ileolioliii,
on Oesel.
Oesel In a small Island In ihe llalttc,
In tlie domain of the riussl.in Govern-
j ment of Livonia It lies ncioss the en-
trance to the Gulf of ltlgn.
Tnrk. linln VeHr lllllls.
Special fable Hmpatrt lo Till- Six
Constantino!'!.!:, via London. April 2.1
Tl.n roll. ....li... ...... .. .. , .
. .....' ...j. r... -0,101 was issurii
by the War Olllce to-night with regaid
lo the situation In the Caucasus
The enem was repulsed with sin-
1 gulnary losses south of llltlls, casi of
Miisn in tnr ARhkn'n irg'on and
south of Tnblzond, Finhllin; Is pro
ccedlng with enemy fences landed :it
Polalhatic,
Chancellor Returns to Rer
I in To Send a Reply
This Week.
DKLAV REGARDED .
AS A GOOD 03IEN
Relief Ts That It Means
Putting Brakes on
V Roats.
SLOW PROCESS OF
YIELDING INDICATED
German Press Against. Giv
inp: In Entirely to the
Fnited States.
iptcial iablr DtHxttcl, to Tnr. Si v.
Hoii.in, via Amsterilani, April -'3.
Germany's answer to President Wll
sun's virtual tilllnintiini will Tie "des
patched to Washington perhaps In tJln
middle, tlioiuh poi-tlbly not beforo th
end. of this week.
Dr. von IJetlimann-IIollvvcg, tho Im
perl il German chancellor, relurneil
front the general army hi-udqunrter.1
to-day.
Of all the signs .ind hints ami omcin
with reg-anl to the otitcume of the crisis
between the two countries thli very
delay of Germany's answer is the- most
significant: it points, clearly to decided
yielding on the part of the German.
Government, a dlgnllled and gradual
but none the less complete accession to
America's demand that the lives of
American citizen must Im safe
guarded. If there is any one in tho Fnltcd
States who elelude-s himself with the
idea thai Germany wants war with
America or that she Is about to defy
America by saving, "We ian go no fur-
, tlier; if you want a bn-nk you t.iko the,
coni-(tiences:" lie s sorely unfamiliar
with the alms nnd tho ways and
n,tlllr,,ls f'f '"'o "''nuii Government III
i'Hernutloml policies
tunliiM n Ureal..
Weic Geiiunnv courtlmr a hre.L- r.i.t,
.,, ,-,,.., . ' co,lr" "reak with
' tiUc-'- w,'rn thoroughly
convinced that there is "mil ono scin-
"lla of Justltlcatlon for the American
demands" as sumo Individual hot headed
, .
'"'?" ' V, hee" a'"K -then thero
''aNi; ''-'sheil across the cablo
.enf"f., "enty-four hours after the
p Amer ,, ' ,"";"' ,"Tlc1
i . ' "'o '. curi. oecineu
reply telling the American Government
ti so many nouU ,Ilat t uglw !4
lmiiosslhle to ri-.uu ,,M, ,mt this Is Ger
many s last word and closes the Incident.
I.yen the Knl-er's absence fiom llerlin
would not hav prevented that. Ths
last paragraph of President Wilson'
nolo Is clear enough to be put Into on
or two code words and sent bv the spa
ca vviro running irom tin. ForclBn
Office to tho Kalsei-a c.sU- !U the Im
perl.il henibiunrtcrs,
Wliat is really coming to pass in Gr
many at this moment Is a feverish prep
aration for a submission to Anieilcuu
demands , not. to be sure, for ... ,.,,
1. 1 1'. ,i I. , ---'..'. ni,i-iu
. " "' " ' ar ine xvarrate.
. oui to mat whicli Im hl, it, xt ii'ii
,. , . i .'il. HO
, . ,"K I"""aBf-l'h. u declaration
I m"ig '"to ctfccl of an abandon-
' ""'"f of l,H "Present methods" of sub.
m!,rln'' "''''f'-re against pastengcr and
' "''K'" carrying vesbcls,
Xo Men- loii..inrk,
This Is no mere guesswork or specula,
tloti; It is a statement based upon clo
observation of the things that ,;(VC been
Mild and heard here in authoritative
eiuarters upon knowledge of tho German
. ( ovemniei i-J ,,1 t , i , ,i ,,,r"'l
oV sl!;icn,;slM m m ' 1 v e'en t
"'e W?'" "'"'" mm s
! f Ut cou" ll"t '' "'vull at ,hu
I An.rican
1 direct deil.in'c. r i i.i ..n "..
quest that Gcno-iovsT i . " "
ool, e, i0 "S I n "0." !.'"J
Inod.uVon of t m 'pne InnSerM , bo,t
warfnie b.i forthcoming , i,, it, y."
In reality It -Is, however T il e li on
optimistic sign in the wh. on
Also, It can be stated p.s,Uv ely I Z
Foreign (iin.-e t,,.. .. ... IL.
delay Is explained' In Washington
Dr. von Jagow, the Foreign Minister,
.. . . . '.' lt '
uniuwiiuur iierain uau an Hour s
conference last night, Immediately upon
i ne . w, u nison! me .smerican Atnoassalni'
, is believed to have Inlormed bis Guv
eminent that their- will be a delay nnd
lint accession to the American demand
, "immedlatelv" Is Impossible,
"'0 OTinau imswer Is filially
wtltten there will Im ciiibevlled in It no
j doubt an explanation of the delay; It
will he pointed out that the f..ei m,i
assertions pm forth bv the United states
Government "were very carefu y con-
,i., . .. . . f .. -' .'
suiereu, in aeutition to mis tlieto may
'", ,!P''"'ttlo'i thtt t'ics" facie and
I assertions served the Foreign Olllce tu
I "supplement ami complete." Us own In-
yestigatlon of the cases and nuestlonH at
;
llriinr.l for lit Idcnce,
It wlll be iiniembered Unit Gerniany'n
last note leqiiestcd tlie United Slatea
Government lo present any further fads
that might Ik- in Us possession with re-
" "1 ....... i. ll .... .-,,,.-e. 1,00 lilt
sitililng or the four oilier ships, That re
uuest was in fact the moe-t significant
I passage of the note, fur it was an In-
d ied admission that knowledge of other
f.uts might piompt Germin. h teallza
Hiii that tlie Su.ffx war. after aj! ..ttackul'
b., a Geiman subnialine
N'ovs the eviilcncn offereil hv Washing.
I ton Is even to the most bkiuied German a
i
