. r - ;}
^ __ j ^ /S ! O "From Prma to Ham*
/f 4rhmttrit sotjifT ffl
IL/I|v ^AlvHAllM _
| Full report on page 1*. )| ^ T ^/ ?,?. D.IIT Awifti M.T3S, Mn. ?M
CLOSMG SBW lORK STOCKS PAGK !?. ^*?
? WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1916-TWENTY PAGES. * ' 0NE CENT-,
GERMANY TO MAKE I
SOME CONCESSIONS
Confidential Dispatches Fromj
Ambassador Gerard Give
Optimistic View.
f
BERLIN WANTS FRIENDLY
RELATIONS TO CONTINUE j;
Broad Intimations Received That It |,'!
Will Go to Great Lengths to 11
Avoid Threatened Break. , ,s
I
Confidential dispatches from Ambassador
Gerard at Berlin indicate that
Germany will make certain concessions
to the United States in response to the
note demanding the immediate abandonment
of present methods of submarine
warfare. j
Whether the concessions will be suf- j
flrientlv broad to meet the American j f
demands appears uncertain. However, J ^
officials reflected an air of hopefulness^
for en amicable settlement of tiw? j r
issue. I f
Intimations by Officials. *
If is understood Ambassador Gerard a
hss received broad intimations that the I *
German government will go to great j r
lengths to preserve friendly relations i a
with the United States. He is under-|
stood to have gained his impressions j .
from officials of the Berlin foreign j (
office, including Foreign Minister von ;
Jagow. 1
The Berlin government is confronted f
with finding a way to satisfy the T
United States without arousing the element
which insists upon a relentless \
submarine campaign. j
Mr. Gerard's dispatches are of a high- t
1} confidential nature, and were re- .
ceived during the night. I
Chancellor Returns to Berlin. ]
BFRL.IN, April 24.?The imperial chan- j
cellor. Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg. re- ?
turned to Berlin yesterday afternoon, 1
which would seem to justify the assumption
that the empire's responsible leaders
at great headquarters have finished consideration
of the American note and
reached a decision concerning Germany's 1
reply. 1
The chancellor's return, it is under- :
toou. w?s nor expected until luesaaj, j
hence a general decision appears to have
been reached earlier than looked for.
There seems to be much significance in
the fact that the Ix>kal Anzeiger, which
is consistently well informed, says that ]
"Germany's strength and prestige have
so increased in the last twenty months in J
the eyes of the whole world that the German
government has. indeed, only to fol- .
low the commandments of wisdom." I
Peace Party Has Strength.
The obvious deduction, according to the .
view here, is that there is nothing to f
prevent Germany from making certain \
concessions if the leaders feel that they 8
t-a.i pnftperly do so. Whether they do j
fe?'l that they can go thus far is. of i
course, another question. There is un- 1
questionably a considerable peace party
in Germany, which includes powerful
financial interests represented by the
bourse organs and the Frankfurter Zei- !
tung. and including also the Berlin Tage- 3
biatt and socialist organs. Certain high
officials, also, would consent to a breach '
of war with the United States only most
reluctantly, and under pressure of what
seemed to them an unavoidable necessity.
?! may be not without signifiance
that Maximilian Harden was permitted
to print a remarkable article in his
pa:>er, Zukunft. defending President!
Wilson's standpoint in plain words.
With the possible exception of a
handful of extremists, there appears to
bo nobody in Germany desirous of a
breach of war with the United States.
!t is evident beyond doubt, however,
that if the government should reject 1
the demands of the American note re- ?
vpectlng submarine warfare it would
find , the united support of Germans of j
il parties.
K\en those to whom the idea of a i
ipture between Germany and the
. .1 I.. .?.???
i > n?ico io iiiun "iimaoieiui ii^rcw j
feeling that the government must j
to weaken Its means of war- !
: gainst Great Rntain, though this j
- d mean a breach with the United j
Hi*'**.
Faint Note of Optimism.
A *alnt note of optlsism is sounded by !
the Yorwaerts. the organ of the so- ;
da. democratic party, but other papers
speak openly of "an unavoidable i
breach." The Vorwaerta says:
"Ali thinking statesmen In Germany Ij
and America. conscious of their re- i'
ponsiblllty, may be certain that they 1
Have the people behind them if, with- !
#?t hurrying. they seize every means
Whlafa will prevent & breach."
striking feature In oonnection with
the Whole matter Is the fact that the
press almost unanimously speaks of j
"Wilson's note," and only in exceptional i
oases of "the American note." Most of .
the papers disregard reports showing
that Congress Is supporting President
Wilson, and the Post declares that Mr
Wilson "by no means has a safe majority
behind him."
The Lokal Anzelger speaks of Presi- |
6?vt Wilson as "a short-sighted man j
desirous of the victory of might, which
will be America's greatest enemy in
the future." and declares that be is
"trying to place a false halo on his
own head."
The Tagltsche Rundschau surpasses
oven the Tages Zeltung's customary
b'tterness in its attack on President
Wilson and the United States, and
speake of a breach between the two
countries as a virtually accomplished
fact.
"America England's Ally."
P esider.t Wilson's ultimatum." It
s'ivs. 'shows that America has decided
tha now is the time openly to go over
to the ' anks of Germany's opponents,
a.'.l America's demands se-k to prevent
Ge nany from striking England, whose
protecior and ally America is.
president Alison's ultimatum has
?l??a e?*. up the situation even for those
vh . .'c!'<ifr!y did r.ot want to see light. '
H . come Six weeks earlier, it would J
hi been more favorable for us. Wei
r lorjte can ret-eat. but rather must |
use t-u* freedom which the enemy has I
uivn i.-i 10 'Old in unlimited subma-}
rl*< wtrfa-e. ?vi*h consideration fori
r.oholy. and rely upon the confidence j
* mr experts, who hope, with the h?Ip j
of ?iii?c weapon. used only from .? mill- j
t> xtar.dpO.nt, 'o compel Kngland to i
peace.
\ hrea? h in -elatlons. because it 1inevitable.
must be borne. it cannot
end/in', ' our favorable military position
I'mm n breach of relation* to
s dcolaiation of war * a f?i 1 \ Ion*
since the declar;t*>on of war. ac?
-v.pni: to AlBSfloni inceptIons, must
t? :iii ruled on Ninfli iVkcj
ML BILL SUBMITTED
TO HOUSE COMMITTEE!
larries Appropriation of $217,652.174.
and Embraces Department
Program of 19lt.
The naval appropriation bill, as J
ramed by the House naval subcom- j
littee and submitted in a confidential J
rint to the full committee todav for I
is consideration next Thursday, caries
$217,65^.174. against $1 49,656,865
fiofol , u ? ThlS i? I
nclusive of public works and is on the ;
>asls of the Navy Department's pro- j
osed building: program for 1917. I
The Navy Department's building pro- I
;ram for 1917. which is for two battlehips,
two battle cruisers, three scout J
ruisers. fifteen destroyers, thirty sub- ,
narines. two gunboats, one hospital;
Dip and one fuel-oil shipt is embodied j
vithout chang^in the tentative bill for,
he full committee's independent judg- J
nent when the full membership takes
jp the measure, beginning next Thurslay.
There is also an item of $28,369,127 I
or construction, machinery, etc., of J
essels heretofore authorized.
Appropriation for Aviation.
For aviation in the navy, including
naintenance of aircraft stations and ex erirnental
work in development of aviaion
for naval purposes, the bill caries
$2,000,000, and. in addition. $85,000
or the naval advisory committee for
leronautics. The ndval militia gets
>387.737 instead of $250,000, as at pres:nt.
and the states of Massachusetts and
v'ew York get $125,000 each as reim>ursement
for expenses incurred in
naintenance of marine schools in those
itates.
in personnel the bill provides for
3,500 additional men. Naval auxilaries
are allowed $950,000. an increase
>f $150,000.
i owaro ereciion ana equipmeiu ui ?
?lant for manufacture of projectiles
>n a site to be'selected by the Presilent.
to cost not exceeding: $1,41 1,222,
he bill appropriates $705,611.
The appropriation for ammunition
or ships of the navy is raised from
13.000.000 to $13,720,000 for "procuring,
producing, preserving and handling
immunition for issue to the ships."
Por purchase and manufacture of
>mokeless powder $1,800,000 is given
n place of the current $650,0X10. with
he committee information that there
s enough powder on hand to supply all
>hips of the navy built, building or auihorized
up to date, including reserve
powder.
For Washington Gun Factory.
For new machinery at the Washing- j
ton naval gun factory the appropria- j
;ion is doubled to $150,000. For the I
Viewport torpedo station the amount i
for new machinery equipment is tre- j
jled to $100,000.
The bill embodies new items of $4.- i
-03,524 for a reserve of ordnance sup- ;
[dies to be available until June 30. 1918;
5480,000 for purchase and manufacture
?f torpedo nets and equipment, $195,000
for air compressors for destroyers.
The dry dock controversy between
Philadelphia and Norfolk is tentativCy
settled by an appropriation of $500.>00
toward a $3,500,000 dry dock at
sach of these two yards.
The Washington nuv>- yard gets $285,>00,
double the present appropriation,
or gunshop. fuel oil storage and other
purposes: $70,000 is giyen for a sea wall
it Annapolis Naval Academy.
The bill bears a new item of $280,000
'or the storage of war munitions at
laval magazines, navy yards and staions,
including Washington navy yard.
There is a straight appropriation of
51,000,000 for an experimental laboratory.
for research work inrluriincr r?r?n_
struction. equipment and operation of
i laboratory.
For accumulation of a reserve supply
r>f medical stores $700,000 is appropriated.
Hospital Corps Provision.
The bill has a new provision requiring
that hereafter the Hospital Corps
shall constitute 3 1 z per cent of the authorized
enlisted strength of the navy
and Marine Corps and specifies the
grades.
It authorizes th#? President to appoint
as many pharmacists as may be
Seemed necessary from the rating of
chief pharmacist's mate, with rank
and pay of warrant officers.
Medical officers and enlisted men
serving with marine detachments w.itn
the army shall while serving be subject
to the army rules and articles of war
the same as marines, under the bill.
NO PEACE OFFERS~MADE.
GERMAN PAPER ASSERTS
BERLIN, April 24. by wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.?"The Norddeuteche
Aligemeine Zeitung states," says the
Overseas News Agency, "that recently
rumors have been spread about peace
offers from our enemies. It was said
that the Russians had taken measures
in order to open negotiations. The
f?ernlan authorities will ignore completely
any such proposals. All these
rumors are inventions."
ITALIAN AERIAL BOMBS
KILL NINE AT TRIESTE
BKTiUIN, April 24. wireless to Savville
?The Austrian city of Trfeste lias been
raided by a squadron of seven Italian
aeroplanes, bombs, dropped from which
killed nine persons, wounded five and
destroyed a monastery.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
i
Senates
Met at noon.
Took up rural credits bill for
general debate.
Judiciary committee again failed
j to vote on Brandeis nomination to
i Supreme Court of the United
! States.
Immigration committee* meeting
; called for Thursday to consider
Japan's protest to features of ?xj
elusion provisions.
House:
Met at 11'o'clock.
Democratic leaders decided to '
; report a rule to send the army bill j
! to conference over the protests of j
I Minority Deader Mann.
Discussion oe the agricultural .
appropriation bill resumed.
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS.
House:
The Johnson b:i! revising the
Juvenile Court taken up for
finishing debate end vote.
M'COMBS TO RETIRE
AS PARIV CHAIRMAN
Will Not Lead During Present
Year's National Campaign.
Informs President.
FRED LYNCH, MINNESOTA,
MAY BE HIS SUCCESSOR
Change at Head of the Democratic i
Committee to Be Made at
Close of Convention.
William F. McCombs, chairman of ;
the democratic national committee, will |
not occupy that position in the coming
presidential campaign. He has written
President Wilson that, because of a
new law partnership, he will be unable
to retain the chairmanship after the
meeting of the democratic national j
convention, and the President, in re- i ply,
agrees with the view of Mr. J
McCombs and will not urge him to
changTe his mind, at the same time. J
however, thanking Mr. McCombs for
the great sacrifices he has made and
services he has rendered the democratic
party.
Avoids Unpleasant Features.
It lias not been expected for many
months that Mr. McCombs would be .
in charge of the next campaign. There j
has been no open friction in the demo- I
cratic national committee, but Mr. McCombs
has not been acceptable to a j
number of the most Influential men on I
the committee and to the President's
most intimate friends. Mr. McCombs' j
retirement, however, rids the President (
of the unpleasant features that would
attend a selection of a new chairman}
after the national convention. 1
I Mr. McCombs and Secretary McAdoo j
| have not been In accord on political 1
I matters for a long time, each representing
views entirely opposite, with
no prospect of getting together.
The opinion in well informed quarters
is that Fred Lynch of Minnesota. _
chairman of the executive committee ?
of the democratic national committee, ?
will run the next campaign by invita- T
tion of President Wilson, followed by P
election of the committee. I
In his letter to the President Mr.
McCombs said, in part:
"For five years now I have been in
the active service of the party, and it j
is with a keen feeling of regret that 1 j
am rorcea to conciuue mai m; acuvities
arc of necessity to be more limited.
, If within the limits of my time
i can be of assistance, be assured that
1 am always available." P
The President's Keplyv
The President said ip his reply: ' w
"I fully appreciate the necessity you p
feel yourself to be under to resign after p
the convention shall have been held in o
June; I know that you would not have v
| reached such a decision had not your s
new business obligations made it un- c
avoidable. I do not feel at liberty, there- w
I fore, to urge you to make the sacrifice t]
that a retention of the chairmanship t<
would in the circumstances Involve. You I.
have made many and great sacrifices ! t!
already for the party, and I know that
I am speaking the sentiment of all '
loyal democ rats when I express the very
deep appreciation I have felt of the
! great services you have rendered. I am : n
j sure that the greatest regret will be . y
i felt at your retirement and that a host : '
j of friends will join me in the hope teat >
your new business connections will < t
| bring you continued abundant success." { e
DISCARDING OF "FLAT" |;
! PHONE RATE IS UPHELD'
. ?
i Appellate Court Affirms Refusal of j v
i j i
Injunction Against the . "
C. & P. Co. ;>
j I"
j The District Court of Appeals, in an
i opinion by Justice Cobb, today affirmed
the action of the District Supreme
Court in refusing a mandatory Injuncj- N
tion against the Chesapeake and Po '
tomac Telephone Company to compel .
? th* continuance of a "flat-rate" busi-j4.
I ticps service, which had been in exist- t!
IP
ence before the formation of the pub- ^
, lie utilities commission. The suit was g
i brought by Jesse L. Heisltell for hirnj
self and other business houses, which P
I were enjoying the provisions of a "flat- J*
rate" contract. r
The appellate court concurs in the j
opinion of the trial justice, who adopted
the view of the matter taken by j i<
Attorney H. H F. Macfarland for the j<
company. The telephone company in
its answer to Mr. Heiskell's bill averred ii
that the "obsolete or flat rate is unfair o
and discriminatory as against the great
majority of its business subscribers,
who are. and for many years have
been, paying the regular standard
measured or message rates." r
The company admitted that these flat c
rates were the lowest rates in existence
prior to March 1. 1913, but denied
that under the law the flat rate
was the lawful, non-discriminatory rate v
and averred that rate to be unfair and c
discriminatory at the time of the passage
of the utilities act. March 4. 1913, ^
and by the express terms of that act t
made unlawful by reason of such dis- 8
crimination.' n
Justice Hobb's Opinion. ?
Justice Robb says in his opinion:
"Appellant's sole ground for equitable
relief is based upon his contention that t
under the act of March 4. 1913, his
contract was continued in force.
The argument is that the amount paid
under that contract constituted the lowest
rate in force for that class of service j ?
when the act was passed. The telephone ' p
company answers that the act continued |
in force current rates only and not rates
no longer open to the public. M1
. aitriAllntP oniirl nnmln out that for I 'f
nine years prior lo the utilities act the
new subscribers were discriminated h
against in favor of the old "flat rate' t
service users and expresses the con vie- >
tion that one great object of Congress
was by tiiis legislation to turn the light. into
dark places and to terminate ail I
discrimination. "Adopting this view,"
says Justice Rohb. "it becomes reasonably .
certain that Congress intended to con- *
tinue in force the regular current rates i
and not such rates as were special and a
discriminatory." r
/ .
^ (
'RESIDENT TAKESPART
HP Hfll IflAY FfIR RF.ST
y I llVkll/lll I VII iih*v
Today was a partial holiday with
resident Wilson. He made no engage- !
lents at his offices for the day and did j
ot see the usual swarm of visitors j
ho wished to shake hands with him. j
[e remained in his study at the White
louse most of the day working upon
ffici&l papers and correspondence, priate
and public. He had arranged to
ee only one visitor. That was Gen.
hamorra, the Xicaraguan minister,
i'ho is leaving this country. Tonight
he President and Mrs. Wilson will atend
the ball of the Army and Navy
.eague at the navy yard, arriving
here early and remaining some time.
Hospitals Get Flowers.
The hospitals of Washington and the
lany patients in them are indebted to \
Irs. Wilson for the most beautiful J
overs ever received by these institu- !
ions. Those in charge of raising flowrs
for the decoration of the White
louse this year grew a magnificent
ollection of lilies and other flowers
nd were prepared to place thein j
hroughout the White House last Satrday.
so that the decorations for Sunay
and today might he complete.
Mrs. Wilson, thinking of the sick
nd dying patients in the hospitals
hroughout the city, directed that the
ritire collection he diverted from the
Vliite House and sent to these institu- I
ions of the sick and despondent. The ;
owers were delivered late .Saturday !
nd yesterday and thev were so nu- '
lerous as to give beautiful decoration |
o all the hospitals which receive the j
ublic.
President to Cast Vote.
President Wilson will go to Prince- |
on tomorrow to cast his vote in the
lew Jersey primaries. In doing so he
rill vote for the Wilson delegates to
tie national convention, who will cast
heir bellots for his renomination. The
'resident's vote is not necessary, but
e believes that every citizen should
et an example of taking part in the
rimaries. While at Princeton he will
lant a memorial tree along the new
.incoln highway that will cross the
nited States.
Secretary Tumulty, who also will
ote in th? Jersey primaries tomorrow,
ift for Jersey City this afternoon,
lining his family in that city tonight.
There will be no meeting of the cablet
tomorrow, owing to the absence
f the President.
* GETS
CORN FROM RUMANIA. |
D.000 Carloads Delivered to Germany
and More Is Purchased.
BERC1N. April 24, by wireless to Sayilie,
X. V-?About 60,000 car loads of I
orn have been sent from Rumania to !
lennanv and Austria during: the las!
hree months, the Overseas News Agency
avs. it is reported from Bucharest that
ext week will be begun the forwarding '
f 140,000 car loads recently sold by Ru
rianla.
The news agency states that the Britsh
were unable to obtain even half of
he 80.000 car loads of corn they desired
0 purchase.
American* Killed in Battle.
OTTAWA, April 24.?James Goodwin
f Sacramento. Cal.. and William Edward
Mahoney of Roxbury. Mass.. are
eported killed in action in a casualty
1st of the Canadian overseas forces,
'he wounded included Thomas Bradord,
Akron. Ohio; Humphrey Moynlan.
l^awrence. Mass.; Ronald H. Hi 1on.
Seattle. Wash., and William O.
Baylor. Detroit. Mich.
lunboat Callao I* Off the Navy List.
The small gunboat Callao, cantured
rom the Spaniards by Admiral Dewey
n Manila bay in May. 189S, has been
tricken from th* navy list as unfit for
laval service.
G. O. P. EGG ROLLERS.
WEED WITH CARE!
IN VONIGLE CASE
U. S. Officials Striving to Avoid
Complication of Issues
With Germany.
Administration officials apparently
are embarrassed in the treatment of
the Wolf von I gel incident because of
the possibility that its disposition may
complicate the issue already made with
Germany over its method of submarine
warfare. They are of opinion, it is
said, that it may be better, for diplomatic
reasons, to concede all of the
demands of the German ambassador for
the release of von Igel, and the return
of all the papers seized in his office,
i than to develop a situation on which j
the German government might reason- i
ably base a severance of relations, J
without regard to the submarine issue.
Efforts are being made to keep the two
issues separate, and to avoid any action
| that might give the German government
an opportunity of confusing the
issue over submarine warfare by
charging the United States with violating
established principles relating to
the privileges of diplomatic agents.
To Return All 'Official" Papers. j
According to Secretary 1 causing all the i
! "official" papers seized in the office of
' vott Igel will be returned to the German !
embassy, but he declined to say whether j
that would Include "all the papers" or to
'specify who was to determine which of!
the documents were official and which
were not of that character. Decision on
those points probably will be made to- j
morrow after Ambassador BernstorfT has j
; conferred with the Secretary of State. At i
any rate it is understood that Count von]
BernstorfT will come to this city tomor- j
! row to see the Secretary on the subject. I
j The Department of Justice, while
willing to be guided by the State DeI
partment. holds that as the papers were '
taken from an office in New York !
leased by von Igel himself, diplomatic!
( Immunity from seizure cannot be inl
voked. As to the assertion of the am;
bassador. that as an attache of the German
embassy von Igel cannot be held
in custody, the State Department is ;
i willing to agree, but only to the extent |
j that von Igel's immunity extends only
to alleged offenses committed after he
was entered on the embassy rolls. If
gaged in attempted violations of Amer- :
! ican laws before he became an embassy I
employe, this government, according to
the present disposition, may insist that
he be held for trial.
All of the original papers are now at
'lie Department of Justice, where they
are being gone over carefully. Photographic
copies have been left in charge
of United States Attorney Marshall of
New York, however, and it is said no
order has been sent to him for the dispatch
of these copies and the photographic
plates to Washington.
Ambassador Embarrassed.
The loss of the papers seized in von
Igel's offices is declared to be the most
embarrassing incident in the diplomatic
career of Count von Bernstorff. It is
known that his name is mentioned in
some papers, and the statement is made
by persons in authority that if he identifies
these as parts of the official files
of his embassy, be will be placed in the
position of having knowledge of many
things that have happened here since
the outbreak of the war. which, up to
the present time, he has maintained
were done without sanction or knowledge
of the embassy.
Persons who have examined the seventy
pounds of document* believe that
I it is doubtful if Count von Bernstorff'
will attempt to identify any of them
by reason of the startling contents of
many of the lot.
Not only the W'elland canal plot, but
also plots independent of that affair
figure in the papers. There are data
I concerning the activities of Franz Rin-i
telen, the Berlin Danker and reserve
naval officer, who came here a year ago
to direct the conspiracy to instigate
strikes in munition plants, for participation
in which plots several persons,
among them Rintele.n himself, are now
under indictment.
X
p
JUVENILEC OURT BIlT"
MAY BE PASSED TODAY
The Johnson Juvenile Court bill, revising:
and reorganizing: the Juvenile
Court of the District of Columbia,
probably will be passed by the Hotise
later today, as it was taken up in
committee of the whole when 'the
House met today, with only a few sections
to be discussed. Representative
TlnL'Viom r\f Moocar>hne?t(<i in phurirp
of the bill on the floor, had several
legal arguments with various interested
members of the House, particularly
Representatives Gard of Ohio, Tribble
of Georgia and Towner of Iowa. An
amendment, offered by Representative
Gard, clarifying some of the language,
was adopted.
When the last section of the bill had
been reached Representative f'iark 01
Florida offered an amendment nr^viding
that in every case white children
should be separated from colored children
in all institutions under the jurisdiction
of the court. The amendment
started a lively sectional debate.
The bill makes several radical
changes and. broadly speaking, it
makes the Juvenile Court an equity
court rather than a criminal court. It
is the result of the labors of well
known lawyers and sociologists. The
purpose of the bill is best stated by
an extract from the report to the
House, in which it is stated:
Now Is a Police Court.
"The present Juvenile Court, established
by an act of Congress March
19. 1906. was found to be a police
court for children, which had original
and exclusive jurisdiction of all persons
under seventeen years of age. It
was found that the present Juvenile j
Court must punish of fine for all crimes
that are misdemeanors, and for all
crimes other than misdemeanors must
hold the person for the grand jury.
So. under this act, children must be
charged with a crime and. if convicted.
have a permanent criminal record
established. Between June 30,
1907. and June 30. 1913. more than
1,000 children were found guilty of
crime, and. ipso facto, are disqualified
from jury service, holding office and
entering public service.
"The proposed bill rests upon a broad
and humane theory diametrically opposed
to the present law. It enunciates the
generous and clement principle that the
child who finds liis way into court is not
to be regarded as a criminal, but rather
as the ward of the nation, whose individual
welfare coincides with the wellbeing
of the state and should be saved
to it rather than prosecuted by it.
"The present law punishes the child;
the proposed bill establishes a Judicial
guardianship of the child to protect and
help, not to punish and stigmatize it.
Every provision in the bill lias these prin
ciples in view, in the proposed bill criminal
terminology is abandoned and a petition
is substituted for the criminal information
and complaint, and a summons
takes the place of a warrant. Indiscriminate
public inspection of the records of
the court and the proceedings are not
allowed in the discretion of the judge.
"The court is given plenary authority to
treat individually the juvenile problem.
The proposed bill increases the age of the
child from seventeen to eighteen years
over whom the court shall have jurisdiction.
Power of Court Broadened.
"The present law does not allow the
court to directly commit any child to any
care except that of a training school. The
proposed bill gives the court a complete
discretion as to the custodial care of the
child.
"The present law practically prevents
any proceedings against adults who may
he really responsible for the child's delinquency.
The proposed bill makes easy
such proceedings.
The proposed law calls for no appropriation.
the appropriation for the present
court being sufficient.
"The tenure of the judge is increased
from six years -under the present law to
ten years under the proposed bill "
The first vote on the <"lark amendment
was a defeat for the democratic
side, as there happened to be four more
republicans than democrats in the
House, and the proposition to segregate
children of the two races in the various
institutions was lost by 63 to 58. Representative
Hetlin of Alabama. Repre- j
eontative Olark of Florida and otherst
immediately sent out for supporters!
and begran drawing: up another amend-!
meat to affect the same purpose. r
BAINS FOR FRENCH 'I
ON VERDUN Ml.
Paris Reports Progress Was I
Made to Northwest of
Caurettes Wood.
ML ATTACKS BREAK DOWN. I
IS VERSION FROM BERLIN 1
Infantry Mainly Held in Reserve. i
But Dead Man s Hill Is Bombarded
Again.
PARIS. April 24, 12:01 p.m.?French
troops made progress last night on the J
Verdun front northwest of Caurettes a
wood, the war office announced this *
afternoon. They attacked with hand <
grenades, and in the fighting took t
thirty prisoners, one an officer. Several '
German reconnoitering parties were 1
dispersed southeast of Haucourt.
There was rather heavy bombardment
at Dead Man Hill. East of the Meuse
the night was comparatively calm.
Official French Report.
The text of the statement follows:
"North of the Aisne a German reconnoitering
party endeavoring to penetrate
our lines on the plateau of Paissy
was repulsed with losses.
"West of the River Meuse last night
we dispersed several reconnoitering
parties of the enemy. Southeast of
Haucourt and northwest of the Caurettes
wood we made progress with
hand grenades in the communicating
trenches of the enemy and took about
thirty prisoners, including one officer.
"The enemy has delivered a fairly
spirited bombardment in the region of
Dead Man hill.
"East of the River Meuse and in the
Woevre district the night passed with
relative quiet.
Germans Explode Mine.
"At Eparges the explosion of a German
mine caused us no damage.
"In the forest of Apremont our artillery
has shown activity, and it has 1
been efficacious in combating the
trench guns of our adversaries.
"In the Vosges we have captured a
small German position in the vicinity
of Bonhomme. 1
"In Belgium, during the day of April
23 and the night of April 23-24, French
aerial squadrons bombarded on two
different occasions the railroad staHnri
ni ll'i'Tu-Aira irk thfi aq at r?f th?
forest of Houthhulst. On the first occasion
thirty and on the second eighteen
shells of larg-e caliber were thrown
down by our aviators, and many of the
missiles reached their objective. All
our aeroplanes returned unscathed."
Says Attacks Broke Down.
BERLIN, April 24, via London.?
French attacks on the German lines in
several sectors of the Verdun region
have been repulsed, the war office announced
today. The chief French effort
was directed against the vicinity
of Thiaumont farm, but it broke down
in front of the German trenches. The
statement says:
"The artillery along the entire front
has shown greater activity than during
the past few days. Successful
German patrol operations took place
at several points.
"South of St. Eloi, British detachments
were repulsed.
"In the Meuse sector minor French
hand-grenade attacks yesterday against
our forest positions northeast of Avo- ji
court were repulsed.
"Weak enemy advances during the I
night to the east of Dead Man's hill
failed.
"A strong attack in the neighbor- j
hood of Thiaumont farm broke down !
completely in front of our lines.
"A British biplane was put out of
action after an aerial engagement east j
of Arras. Its occupants, consisting of L
officers, were captured."
I1
NEWSPAPER MEN GATHER, j,
Associated Press and Publishers'
Association Meeting in New York.
NEW YORK. April 24.?This is newspaper
week at the Waldorf-Astoria. As ]
early as Saturday publishers and edi- |
tors of daily newspapers from all over J
the country began to arrive at the hotel J
to attend the annual meeting of the Associated
Press and the annual meeting
of the American Newspaper Publishers' 1
Association. The former opens tomor- J
row and the publishers meet on Wed- ! 1
nesday for a session of three days. j
Problems of interest to renders of
newspapers as well as the publishers j
will be discussed, among them the advancing
cost of white paper.
The meeting of the Associated Press
is set for !> o'clock tomorrow morning
in the Astor gallery. There will be a
luncheon in the ballroom at noon. All
the space on the ballroom floor this
week not devoted to meetings will be
taken up by a sort of newspaper industrial
exhibition. U no type companies.
concerns which manufacture
all sorts of accessories to printing,
news services, syndicates, news photographic
and bulletin machine companies,
paper manufacturers and publishers
of periodicals that deal with
newspapers and newspaper men have
taken quarters on (hat floor.
An increase in the selling price of
daily newspapers or a marked reduction
in their size may be decided on
at the convention of the newspaper
publishers.
The cost of white paper has assumed
such proportions since the war began
and is increasing so rapidly that publishers
are finding themselves rapidly
forced to a decision ' they have long
seen coming, many declare.
COLLEGE MEN HONOK ENVOY. |:
I
Judge Shea Luncheon Guest on Eve t
of Departure for Chile. 8
INDIANAPOLIS, Tnd.. April 24.? J!
Judtfe Joseph H. Shea, recently ap- c
pointed ambassador to Chile, was the t
guest of honor here today at a special 1
luncheon of alumni of Indiana L'niver- f
sity. Ambassador Shea, who will de- t
part this week for his new post, is a
graduate of Indiana of the class of J
1889, and many of those who attended fl
Lhe luncheon were his classmates at 1
the university. Practically all sections s
of the state were represented. t
Gov. Samuel M. Ralston and Dr. W. o
L. Bryan, president of the university, 4
were among: the speakers. (
t
;EN. PERSHING IS
sum TROOPS
I. S. Positions in Mexico Being
Changed According to
Funston Plans.
IRMY BELIEVES VILLA
NORTHWEST OF PARRAL
American and Carranza Forces Reported
to Be Fighting Bear Satero,
But Confirmation Is Lacking.
SAN ANTONIO. Th? April 24.-."
.loves in Alaj. lien. Funston'a plan for
reriiaf ri hut ion of the A msri.-on ?vaam
n Mexico are being made today by
Jen. j. Pershing, commander of the
?unitive expedition. Details of the
ie\v plan have been carefully guarded
?y Gen. .Kunston and the chief of Ittf
$
)f the army, Gen. Scott, but it wad is*
Heated that it does not provide for
ihe running: of a new main line of
communication or of the establish*
nent of a new border base.
Tt is understood that Gen. Pershing
will be instructed to call in all me>ile
detachments except those doing
?cout duty and enter on a period of
ecuperation. The main line now exends
as far south as San Antonio,
Chihuahua, a station on the Northwest*
;rn railroad a short distance west Of
Chihuahua City. Gen. Pershing lias hta
temporary headquarters at Namiqulps^
Overnight reports from Gen. Persti*
ing make no mention of fighting at j
Satevo, as was reported at El Paso, j
Col. W. C. Brown. MaJ. R. L. Hews*
and Maj. Frank Tompkins are in ths
vicinity of Satevo, however, and it
was regarded as not unlikely that ttl j
reports that they had been attacked ]
there were true.
Villa Reported Near MonoaTS.
Francisco Villa, slightly wounded but
Mrtt inranaritatftd. WM? rcnorted to haSO
moved into the mountainous region
northwest of Parral. This informattoa.
which has reached Gen. Funston, is
from a source that causes him to regard'
it as authentic. Villa was last
reported seen at Monoava, about
eighty-five miles by trail southwest of
Satevo. where the most advanced ftt
Gen. Pershing's force were yesterday.;
Although convinced that Villa has been
located, his immediate pursuit will probably
not be resumed. To follow him Into
the mountains of that region with, smali j
detached forces Is regarded as Impracticable
and the plans for a concentration
of Gen. Pershing's army will be carrlod
out along the lines recommended by Gig.
Funston.
According to Mexicans arriving from
the interior today, reports have boon
spread that Villa Is coming north
again with the object of attacking the
American forces. They say the bandit
now has some 300 followers and will
be joined later by Pedro Bracamonie
of the Torreon district, who has 1,S0U
men. and Gen. Banuelos, whose command
numbers 1,000 men.
Report of Fight Discredited.
EI* PASO, Tex., April 24.?Neither
Gen. Bell at Fort Bliss nor military
headquarters at Columbus, X. M.. had
any information early today regarding
a Mexican report that American negro
soldiers had an engagement with civil
lannct u.*h!i'h IK
ians hi oaicvu. me icpv.
not credited, said several negroes were
killed.
Anxiety was expressed in military
circles here today over reports from
the interior of renewed activity on th*
part of numerous small bands of dandit*
who are roving: about northern Chihua11
ua.
In the mysterious manner in whiich
news is transmitted in Mexico ia. regions
where there are neither railroads,
telegraph or telephones, the peons ha\,e
heard that the American troops are to
he withdrawn from Mexico. The halting
of the operations of the expeditioniry
forces has confirmed their belief la
the truth of the story, which they have
interpreted as a crushing defeat of tke
"gringoes."
Bands Are All Very Small. |
As far as is known here none of these
bands numbers more than fifteen or
twenty men and the majority of them
ire much smaller. Their importance,
us seen by army officers, is that their
depredations will drive the masses, of
[he people, already almost destitute, to
desperation, and that a serious outbreak
will occur which will involve the
American soldiers.
El Paso is waiting eagerly today for
some enlightenment from Washington
is to the plans of the army department.
So far as the border is concerned, the
lews that the troops are not to he
withdrawn from Mexico, at least for the
present, was most welcome, but there
was considerable speculation as -to
ivhat yesterday's announcement from
Washington really meant.
An American, who is considered one of
he best authorities in El Paso on Mexco
and the Mexicans, expressed the
?pinion today that a campaign of com>arative
inaction might prove very effecive
In the long run. '
Bandit to Be Caught Ultimately. .
"If the main body of the troops can be
itilized for the support of mobile deachments,
held merely for the purpose
?f running down rumors, Villa will be aught
ultimately," he said. "For the
ime being the bandit seems to have dis?
ippeared. Sooner or later, though, he
rill come to light again. The troops may
lave to run down a thousand false rumors
if his whereabouts. But in the end a
rue one will come in ana tney win i?t .
lie bandit. I
"Some one of his followers will sell him I
or a ten-dollar note?Just at readily for "
.hat amount as for $10,000. ' I
One question bothering the military. I
las been the rehabilitating of those jfl
roops whose clothes hate been worn to I
hreds in their strenuous rides for Villa.
'so carloads of clothing have Just been I
ent south, via Columbus, however, and I
heae have been Hanked by a shipment a
f 5.000 pairs of shoes. 10.000 pairs of hose. M
,000 ovarshlrts and 2,000 glove*, sent to a
lolumbus to be forwarded as needed. It m
