f
M
-v v"
tEiieum
ICrager
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
RXTPA
effttfvMsssJ flltw JrWsi tfflw 4 nB
rrrb:
VOli. II. HO. 191
A
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, APBtL 24, 101G.
CoftitranTi lio, t tn Praita Ltoan Courint.
PBIOB ONJG3 GENO
s
V
i it r
I..
It
f
If
l
MORE TROOPS
CROSS BORDER
TO GET VILLA
i Gen. Scott to Confer With
Obregon, However, on
Future Policy
1 REPORT OP NEW CLASH
I Army Will Stay in Mexico Un
til Carranza Can
Make Good,
What United States Plans s
Now to Do in Mexico
Secretary of War Baker an
nounces the Mexican policy pf the
United States in this statement:
"General Funston recommends a
redisposition "of the forces in Mex
ico for tho purpose of recuperation
nnd nendiner onnortunity for fur-
I ther co-operation with tho force Of
the do facto Uovernmcnt ot jhoxico.
His recommendation has been ap
proved and its execution left to
his discretion.
"Tho statement made indicates
nothing whatever on the subject of
when the American troops will be
withdrawn from Mexico. The
whole subject of withdrawal of the
forces is under nrraniremcnt and
negotiation by tho State Depart
ment." v
The United States today strength
ened its expedition into Mexico to get
Pancho Villa, following tho decision
of President Wilson, based on a re
port from Chief of Staff Scott from
the border, not to withdraw, despite
the attitude of tho Carranza (Govern
ment. A mile-long column of infantry was
dispatched across tho border. Mean
while, General Pershing is .on the de
fensive, awaiting the reinforcement.
Chief of Staff Scott has arranged
for a conferenco with Carranza's War
Minister, General Obregon, at Eagle
Pass, Tex., to determine the future
policy of tho United States in Mexico.
Events of the day, interpreted, in
dicate that the United States ac
cepts General Carranza's promise that
tho do facto troops will "get Villa,"
But that since such a promise has' been
made .before and remained unfulfilled,
' tho American forces must "be shown"
-'and will tehiain onith'c groUJld"tp See'
,tho job .well done.
Dispatches to General Funston, tho
..'most satisfactory so far received from
' ibo.front, say that Villa has been defi
nitely located. All tho information
vouchsafed was that Villa was "as far
Bm.th as any of tho American forces."
El Paso today reports that Car-
janzistas and the Americans clashed
yesterday near Satovo and many were
killed ior injured, including several
negro troopers.
NEW PLAN OF VILLA CHASE .
'UNDER WAY; TROOPS ON MOVE
. SAN ANTONIO, Tex., April, 24. Fol
lowlng the Administration's decision not
Continued on race Six. Column One
; THE WEATHER .
! 30 EvENiNO.LEDaEn prints today, as
,3 part of Its weather news, the forecast
for the whole of next week, based on new
discoveries In solar physics made by Dr.
Willis I Moore, professor of meteorology
In the George Washington University and
former chief ot the United States Weather
Bureau,; who, In conjunction with Wf F.
f!arhthers. director of the PnrothfiHi Ob
servatory, Houston. Tox., issues regularly
a, bulletin giving the results of their ob
servations with regard to weather condi
tions. Doctor Moore and his associates
have accomplished some notable results,
and have been able to forecast the
weather two weeks in advance with re
markable accuracy in most Instances, and
the Kvenino Lkdcier, as a- matter' of
scientific Interest, and without assuming
responsibility for the accuracy of these
forecasts, prints them for publlo informa
tion. WEATHER FORECAST FOR
PENNSYLVANIA
ifatid ok a ntu itls'eovttv in o!ar phvitos, lu
VlLlta . UQORB and ' ' ,
w. p. OAttoTiifsna,
Sunday, April 30 The week will open
.warm and with rain.
Monday, May 1Two cool movement
from the northwest will unite and ovef-.
mnrntlthm Rtntt, ThWi mill ha ,....i
frosfs one or two morning:
Tuesday, May llt will have cleared
ty Tuesday, wih to to SO decrees coMeV
weather.
Wednesday, Hay 3 The cool weather
w(U continue. -
Thursday, Hay iThe cool movement
U eiitcteil to linger in (his stction the
remainder' of the week, so that generally
falrtweather with cool temperatures will
prevail.'
Friday, Hay SA moderate weather
movement wtll develop, attended ail scat'
iercd. local shower and bringing cooler
weather. ,
Saturday, May 6 The week will close
generally fa,ir and cool. - ,
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
Fpr Philadelphia and vicinity
Parttu cloudu and continued cool tn.
night and Tuesday, with probably T
uynt jrueta w narrow vaueyn ana on,
IQWUinuj (unyn, uynt wmqs, 7no3liy
narihwesU
For details see page 17, -
tOSS1-AND POUND
llferUM tor we harj of th!r,itock. in tbs
nam qf Aaa M. ilartourif. AM perfom ro
warnpJ aiilnit MeotUtlcs t&l atock, and
the flutter will plfasa cornmuulcita with th
Hsiit et N AiMrlca. JUT Widlaut at., ftalla.
black mx
Ak -Ait f mi
t?nlfl!!:rl.'! ti fm ..,,
from ilowrcttsirn. N J. la IJUi. aa
Ftjl.f -ier urn to L jL. S. . J5L"J
Wlt w fe rswart.
walnut. icfi iiim u L'.
TEXAS PRESENTS
I BBBBBBBBBHBStiflHBB:fcMBHMBBBBMB 'v A HBSsowibSp'a" " y3t T3 JHjBSffijnjrHJBJ.ii' uiBr r 8Y&3(8hhBIbvJ8v2m J?
SLAVS ON WEST
FRONT; MAY BE
SENT TO VERDUN
Russian Troops Landed in
France Reach Chalons
Sur Marne
FRENCH MAKE NEW GAIN
PAIUS, April 24.
Russian troops that were landed In
Franco last week have begun nrrlvlng nt
the western front to reinforce the French.
A dispatch from Chnlons Sur Mnrno to
day conveyed this Information, nnd as
Chalons Sur Marne Is south of tho Verdun
region It gavo tho Impression that the Rus
sians would either' bo used at Verdun or
else at some other point on tho southeast
ern end of (holtne.
Tho Russians aro seasoned veterans,
havo seen fighting In tho eastern theatre
of tho war nnd aro nil well equipped.
Further progress was made by the
French offensive on tho front northwest
of Verdun last night.
In an attack with hand grenades, In
Caurettes woods (west of tho Meuse)', (ho
French torok 30 prisoners.
Announcement of tho French gain was
contained in an ofilclal communique. Is
sued by the French War Ofllce today.
Tho communique, states that the Ger
mans, finding French resistance unbroken,
resumed their old tactics of violently bom
barding tho French positions on Le Mort
Homme (Dead Man's HUD, ., ,
The'' text 'Of 'the"olnclal communique
follows: . . ," .
North of the Alsne-anerman rtcon
West of tho Meuita durliic the ntctit
wo dispersed numerous hostile' Vdcon
nnlssance forces sputhea'st of Hau
court. Northwest of CaUrettes wood
we advanced v by means of a grenade
nttack Into the enemy's communi
cating trenches and took 100 prisoners
(correct) ,qf whom one was nn officer.
"Tho enemy bombarded very sharply
the region of Le Mort Homme.
East of tho Meuse and In the
Woevre the night was comparatively
quiet At Les Eparges the Germans'
exploded a mine without causing1 us
any damage. In the forest of Apre
mont our artillery was active nnd re
plied effectively to the trench engines
of cur adversary. s
In the Vosges we captured a small
German post on the" direction of Bon
Homme.
In Belgium, during the day of April
23 and the nlght'of April 23-24. our
aerial squadrons twice bombarded the
station of Wyfwege, cast of Hon
thulst forest. Thirty, and then IB,
shells qf large calibre, most of which
reached their targets, were dropped '
upon the station buildings. All our
aviators returned safely.
BERLIN. Aprlt 24.
Attacks by the French on both sides of
tho Meuse River, In) the Verdun sector,
were repulsed by the Germans last night,
It was'nnnounced by the 'War Office today.
.Northeast of Avocourt-and east of Le
Mort Homme (Dead Man's Hill) French
artillery assaults were launched against
the German positions, but all were
failures, ,
East of the Meuse, near Thlamont farm,
Continued on rago Four. Column Two
SUNDAY WITH$32,500
HERE FROM BALTIMORE
Evangelist, Carrying' Check,
. 'and ."Ma," Stop to-See
John Wanariiaker
"Billy" Sunday, with a check for $32,500
as Baltimore's "free will" offering to the
evangelist, stopped off In this city for a
little more than two hours today 'on his
way from the close of his eight-week cam
paign at Baltimore to his home at Winona,
.Lake, Wis.
All .conjectures as to what Baltimore
gave the evangelist were set at rest when'
he showed a certified check for that
amount.
This will be followed by about $8000
more In a week, he waa told before he left
Baltimore, and perhaps, a little additional
after that. v
"There'll be more," he said, "how much
I don't know." He referred to the amount
which has not yet been received from the
various Baltimore churches.
"Billy," who was accompanied by "Ma"
Sunday, said he felt "fine" as he 'changed
cars" erf Broad Street Station at he West
Philadelphia Station at 11:01 ar-ru. He
looked well and his face wai flushed, as he
.tugged it the heavy mass of luggage
which th' couple Had. After checking their
baggage the evangelist, and his wife
walked through. City Hall to the Wana
maker store, where they lunched with
John Wanamakr. They left at 1:IS p. m,
for Wlnonfe Lake -After a week's rest,
the -even-wuek Sunday campaign) at Kan
Baa City will be ouened.
"Billy" was not recognized by persons
In the station or on, the street and. In
strange contrast to lls departure last
year, no great jam of people fought for
a sight of him. No one met him except
a few reporters, whom he eald he waa
glad to ess,
' Mr- 'Vfanamaker shook: hands heartily
"LONE STAR" FLAG
tSWf ' "SmHSJW i
i '-; ' '' - S
- ' ' "; .,. ' . k
MM 'f v
i- p
It-
HJ
The photograph shows the rais
ing at Independence Hall of the
Texas State flag, presented to tho
city by the Alamo Mission Chap
ter, Daughters of the Republic
of Texas',, San Antonio, at noon.
From left" to right aro Director
McLaughlin, of the Department
of City Property; Gen. J. Camp
bell Gilmorc, A. J. Biddle, Mrs.
Biddle and Charles W. Alexander.
Just as the State flag was about
to reach its place under the
Stars and Stripes, the cord broke.
The insert shows the flag begin
ning to fall.
TEMPORARY INSANITY
WILL BE MRS. ROGERS'
PLEAMURDER:eASE
JurjCnosim to Try Woman Ac
' cused of Poisoning Her Two
Children Shows Lit-
' tie Emotion
TRIED TO END OWN LIFE
NEW YORK, April 24, Temporary In
sanity will be tho defqnse of Mrs. Ida
Snlffen Walters Rogers,- on trial before
Justice Tompkins on' tho charge of mur
dering her two children, John and Lorlda.
.She poIBoned them so that they would
not grow up and face the shamo of be
ing nameless.
With face pale, set and botraying llttlo
emotion. Sirs. Rogers sat In court today
while the Jury, completed just before noon,
was being selected. , Onco only did sho
show emotion. It was when Prosecutor
Martin twisted a polite question her coun
sel asked 'and" emphasized tho word "mis
tress" as., describing, the' defendant. She
stiffened perceptibly, her eyes flashed and
the corner of her mouth trembled. Her
garb of .black was relieved only by a thin
band of white around her collar.
Frequently through the. session she
turned and talked in -whispers to' her nun-
vpand, Lorlys Elton Rogers, the father of
tne poisoned., children, but at the time of
their birth married to another woman.
The Jurors are Edward Storch, Charles
E. Sherwood, David E. Berger, Julius
Weldenmueller, Julius Ilannes, -'-Samuel
R'odler. Albert V.'McCotter, Jr., William
A. Keep'ers, William O. Markert,' George
Continued on raze Two, Column Three
HAITIAN EARTHQUAKES
KIEL MANY, IS FEAR
Government Buildings Shaken
- and' Much Resfden&e Prop
erty Destroyed
SANTO DOMINGO. April 2-Bevere
earthquake shoclii caused .heavy damage
throughout the Ialand ot Haiti last night
and early today. Communication with In
terior points was broken oft and It Is
feared' there has been heavy loss of life.
The tremors began before midnight,
but the most severe shock .occurred early'
today. 'Many houses were razed. The
Government buildings were shaken.
texas flag, gift of ala1i0
mission Chapter, raised iiejie
"Lone Star?' Unfurled Over Independ-
euc.e Hall Slight Accident
The 'TLone Star of Texas" flag Is float.
Ingover Independence Hall this after
noon. It was raised under jhe-auspices
of the local branch of the. Daughters, of
the Republio and la the gift of the Alamo
Mission Chapter of that organization.
Simultaneously with the raising of the
flag In Philadelphia, the flag of the United
States, a gift of the local branch, was
unfurled at -the Alamo, Texas.,
Tlje program was marred by the breaking-
of the rope. The flag was raised by
Jlrs. X X Drexel'Blddla and Director of
Supplies, MacLaughlin to the top of the
flax staff. When Director MaALaughlln.
gave the rope a mighty tug in order to un
furl the nag, the rope snapped and the
flag fell on the roof, whence It was drawn,
down. Mn. Biddle produced a pin and
repaired the torn Car. while General J.
Campbell JjUmom re-tled the ropa about
ice ms.. ana. n was ru;sfcn io. me. ioo o
TO PHILADELPHIA
LEAGUE ISLAND
TO GET DRYDOCK,
SAYSJJAVY HEAD
Will Also Be Equipped to
Build Battle Cruisers.
May Get Armor Plant
MAY SPEND $10,000,000
Du a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON," April 21. "The I'hlla.
dclphla Navy Yard will be supplied with a
1700-foot drydock and equipped to build
battlo.,crulsors."
This was the statement made today by
Secretary ot tho Navy Daniels after n
long conferenco this morning with Chalr
manTadgett, of tho House Naval Affairs
Committee.
"I told Mr. Padgett that In view of tho
cruisers that nre to be built and tho en
largement of the navy, the experts of tho
navy deemed It necessary to have two
largo drydocks on tho Atlantic coast,"
said Mr. Daniels. "I believe that these
nre necessary, and that Congress will
agreo to pass th bill whlech will shortly
bo reported by tho Navnl Affairs Commit
tee. This contains, two drydocks to cost
approximately $4,000,000 ench." .
"Will anything elso be done to equip
tho Phllitdelphla yard?" ho was asked,
"The yard will bo equipped to build
cruisers In my opinion," he added, "but
I do not think It courteous to discuss the
bill until It Is reported."
t "If opo drydof.k is authorized will. It
'go to" Philadelphia?' ilr.'TJJtnlels was theti
n.8J$P.Jv-r'-:
'I..hnfdly..'thIalt''so. as N'offoik Js'tho
mpro Important .yard ' for a. "drydocknd
most, accessible to the fleet," hef answered,
smiling, "but, Philadelphia will get one;
'too, I think, so don't worry about It."
Chairman Padgett, too, declined to go
Into tho details ot tho bill about to bo
reported. Ho said, however, that Phila
delphia will bo entirely satisfied with Its
provisions.
Philadelphia will bo made the center
of Government activity. ApproxImAtcly
$6,000,000 nnd perhaps $10,000,000 will be
expended there to place tho navy yard
and Frankfqrd Arsenal In a position to
supply tno needs ot me uovcrnment. in
case tho Naval Laboratory Is located at
Philadelphia, tho expenditure will amount
to $10,000,000. There Is also a chance
that tho armor plant to cost $11,000,000
may go to Philadelphia If thl3 Congress
should authorize tho project.
PITTSBURGH STEEL
MANUFACTURERS PUT
BAN ON 8-H0UR DAY
Seventy-fl've Organized and For-
.mally Announce No Such
Demand Ayill Be
Granted
MORE' STRIKES COMING
PlTTSBUnail, April 24. Seventy-five
steel '"manufacturers and foundry com
panies In Allegheny County today Issued
a signed statement that after due consider
ation they have decided they will not re
duce, working hours In their respective
shops.
'This means that the companies, which
Include practically all the plants and
shoos of conseciuence. will not grant the
eight-hour day which has been persistently
dlttonal strikes are anticipated. Alle
gheny County Is In the, midst of the great
est epldemlciof strikes In Its history, there
being 38 distinct strikes in progress, ac
cordng to1 Sheriff George W, Richards.
Although wages are the highest ever
known In this district the men are de
manding still more money and better
working conditions. This Is declared due
to "the knowledge the strikers have of
enormous profits being reaped by manu
facturers, esneclally those Having war
munitions contracts and the desire of the.
men to obtain a wage share of the golden
harvest
The manufacturers have made numer.
ous concessions, more than ever have
been granted before to laborers nnd me
chanics, but they balk on the. elght-ljour
day. The manufacturers, it Is understood,
feel that when the present Industrial boom
subsides men can be laid off and .later, If
needed, -men- can be employed at a re.
duced wage without serious dlculty.
The granting of an eight-hour day, -once
done, could not be revoked, it Is feared,
without trouble. Most 9f the men are
working nine and a half r ten hours a
day.
Among the prominent companies slgni
log the announcement relative to no re
duction In working hours were the Wes
tin'ghouae Electric & Manufacturing Com
pany, where a big strike Is onj Wtstlpg
house Machine Company, Westlnghousa
Airbrake powpany. Union Switch aaq Sig
nal Company, Mesta Machine Company,
Mackintosh Hemphill Company and United
Engineering and Foundry Company. In
manv of the plants of the 7K companies.
workmen are on strike, demanding an
eight-hour day, ano Wa manufacturer
BERLIN MAY
MAfeE REPLY
IN 24 HOURS
t
Gerard Sends Long Dis-J
patch to Washington
After Conferences
WILL GONTAIN OUTLINE
Sentiment in Germany Leans
Toward Satisfaction of
U. S. Demand"
THE HAGUE, April 21. The In
tcrnational News Service was inform
ed by a prominent neutral diplomat
today that Germany would offer fur
ther concessions with reference to
submarine warfare in order to prevent
a break with the United States. He
stated that the proposals which Ger
many would make would tend to the
making of international law far the
use of the undcrwntcr craft in this ns
well as future warn.
The diplomat who made this state
ment was the first to receive the news
from Vienna that the Austro-Hunga-rian
Government had disavowed the
sinking of the Italian liner Ancona.
By CARL W. ACKERMAN
11EIILIN, April 21. President Wilson
may know within 24 hours what reply
Germany will make to his demand that
she curb her submarine war under penalty
of a diplomatic break.
Chancellor von Hethmann-Hollwcg, who
returned form the Kaiser's headquarters
Sunday morning, has held no conferenco
thus far with Foreign Office olllclals and
has given ml Intimation of tho result of
his talk with the Emperor.
Tho ceneral feeling amonp odlclals to
day was that the situation Is still hopeful
and that a solution Is possible without a
break.
Ambassador Gerard conferred with the
Chancellor at tho Cancellous palace this
morning. This Is considered significant.
Ambassador Gerard dispatched a long
message to Washington last night, fol
lowing a Sunday conferenco with Sccre--
tary von Stumm of tho Foreign Oluce, and
Doctor Hccksher, of tho Foreign Rela
tions Committee of the Reichstag.
This dlspntch should reach Washington
today. Its cqntents aro secret, but It was
freely rumored that it contains at least
nn outline, of the stand Germany will take
In her formal reply:
KAISER MADE DECISION.
Neither Forelitn Secretary von Jacow,
Under Foreign Secretary.'jilmmqrninn, no; .
v... -ty,- ..jlrtfoIa.vnrolriendVfCcMtol'tbo-Ad.
mTrnlty" tarf, was present' nt Ihe army
' apparently ,ws' reached' by tlto. Kaiser tile
Chancellor 'antfl.acriefal Fnllcerihayn,- chief
of staff: ' ' " ' .
In many quarters, the Chancellor's early
return from th'o ylslt to the Jinlser,
coupled with the unmistakable attitude St
the majority of tho German press in favor
of a peaceful settlement, was taken to
mean that Germany has found a way to
meet tho American demands without suf
fering any loss In honor., Though 'this was
a quite common Interpretation, It was sup
ported In no way, except perhaps by the
statement of ofllcials that they still hoped
to avert a break.
Many leading Germans, , wh had previ
ously favored an unyielding policy In the
submarine controversies with the United
States, have taken a new tack since tho
'J CUUUUdllDIO. I.UIUCIU1K.VK -,4.,,C UCIOiVU
Continued on Tate Four, Column One
LLOYD-GEORGE PARTY
TO ASSAIL ASQUITH AT
PARLIAMENT SESSION
Revival of Cabinet Crisis Ex
pected at Secret Meeting
to Be Held To
morrow
LABOR LEADERS ALERT
' LONDON, April 24.
The crisis confronting the British Gov
ernment over universal conscription will
again be roused Into life tomorrow when
Parliament Will convene In secret session
to define a definite policy.
While the deliberations will be kept
secret, it Is accepted as a foregone con
clusion that the supporters ot Da,yld
Lloyd-George, Minister of Munitions, will
carry their fight against the Asoulth
Cabinet Into Parliament.
The opening gun In the latest -campaign
against Premier Asqulth was fired
today by John Burton Griffiths, a Union
ist member of Parliament, who denounced
the Ministry for "calmly adjourning Par
liament over Easter and Jeavlng the moat
momentous decision In history In the
balance."
Ir, Griffiths Is advocating Mr, Lloyd-
George for premier ana also the establish
ment of an Imperial council, made up of
the premiers of the overseas dominions to
stand firmly behind the Government.
Leaders of the labor parties who are not
connected with the Government aif mem
bers of Its branches are viewing the
secret session ot Parliament wlttgdlatrust.
Secrecy of deliberations on a ntjeation af
fecting the national lite, the laborltea hold,
is onlx second In Importance to the dan
gers that He Jn conscription.
The, labor situation Is causing unrest
and there la anxiety that an extension of
conscription may have an effect which
statesmen are roost anxious to avoid.
NEWCASTLE-4W-TYNE. England, April
24. The Government's conscription policy
was strongly denounced at a meeting of
the Independent Labor party today.
Chairman Jowett said that the party
would refuse to assist'" the Government In
an adventure bound to be disastrous to,
the country, no matter what the outcome
of the military operations. The war, Mr.
Jowett declared, would probably be fol
lowed by industrial strife and the greatest
ot privations.
Broods Over Illness; Ends Life
TORKi Pa., April S i, Peter Myers, a
junk dealer, became despondent this
raoramg over impairea neaiut ana snot
impa:
I himself In the right temple. In a field
QUICK
MAN WHO ANNOYED
WASHINGTON, April &4.
of Portland. Ore. wan sent to
u" uKirauu uevnuac ik moiaicu uu itiiiuy mo uerninu .muft8sy
his troubles. Presser said ho Worked as a butcher until ,n mnh "who
changed himself into J. Flerpont Morgan" prosecuted him.
., 'jfr1''" t
MORNING SOCCER GAMES , ':" 4
--- f. ,j
Veterans (final) 3 North. Americna L'aco' . 0
Bethlehem1 . (final) ! Hibernians '- 1
BURLINGTON ROAD TO SPEND $1,500,000 ON SHOPS
IlimMNGTON, la April 24. About $1,600,000 will bo, spent by tho Chicago,-Hurllngton
nnd Qulncy Italload Company on tho extension of "Its shopa
at West Durllngton. Tho number of employes will be Increased by 600.
AEROPLANE IN SPECTACULAR RAID ON DOVER
LONDON, April 2-1. A German aeroplane flew over Dover at 11:45 a, m.
today, Tho War Office announced that tho raider was driven off before ho
could drop nny bomb3. "Tho Taube was bombarded.,on nil sides, shells from
the antiaircraft guns exploding nil nroiliul tho raider," tho Wnr Ofllce stated.
"It was u splendid exhibition of shooting. The aircraft passed over tho east
ern part of tho city nnd then out to sea. Tho presonco of a hostile aeroplane
was mado known at mldduy by sirens at llamsgatc and Broadstolra, which
wcro sounded ns n warning."
DR. J. WILLIAM WHITE IS SINKING
The condition of Dr. J. William White, noted surgeon, who Is 111 from
paralysis and pneumonia, at his home, 1810 nittenhouso square, was graver
today than nt any time slnco the Illness became ncuto last Thursday. A bulletin
Issued today by Drs, A. C. Wood and Alfred Stengel says: "Doctor "White has
failed steadily -tho last 24 hours. Little hope Is entertained of his recovery."
No visitors are being received nt tho White' home.
FORD AGAIN LEADS CUMMINS IN NEBRASKA PRIMARY
OMAHA, April 24. Interest In baseball, submarine crises, Mexican affairs
and almost everything elso has waned here, while all Nebraska watches the see
saw race of Henry Ford nnd Senator Cummins for tho Republican presidential
nomination. They have swapped tho lead half n dozen times in a week. Today
Ford was leading by about 100 votes.
DEBRIS HOLDS BODIES OF FIRE VICTIMS
GRANITE CITY, III., April 24. Although 11 men nnd one woman aro jsald
to bo missing, no effort hns been mado to search tho ruins' of the four-story
lodging houso destroyed by fire Into Saturday .night for fear, the brlclc walls noW"
standing will fall. Threo men wero hurt seriously ahd two womem, hrree. 'nfan 4 M
and tlireo children, were. Injured sllgUy. AuthorlUes saytojvalla villi fyaoei " .AM
,or razed tqday--andHhat;o;8ear6n'wllf;rnt1e. for bodies',.. .JlJsCJhcJt definitely Jj&S&i
kntfwn 1f thoro wefeTnriFWalhs. ' - , ?,
i . , t
i ' ' ... . ,m
SKOULOUDIS GIVES GREEK STATE $i;000,000
ATHENS, April .24. Premier Skouloudls, who is a man of wealth, has given
$1,000,000 to the State, this being, roughly, tho sum duo tho families, ot tho mob
ilized troops andimpaid on account .of tho empty treasury.
DUTCH DO NOT FEAR. WAR, VAN DYKE DECLARES
THE HAGUE, April 24. Henry Van Dyke; American Minister ,to th6 Nether
lands, la optimistic concerning the situation in Holland. ,'"The position oltHoIland
has '"not changed. since the beginning of tho war," ho-sald. "There) s''no;.t'ruth III
tho rumors that Great Britain demanded tho passage of troops 'uirough utch
territory. The .moderate precautionary measures taken by Holland? wire with the
view of n possible change in tho general situation produclngmn. alteration of the
battle front. The dissemination of unfounded sensational reports Is-rcpre'henslble.
particularly now." "
DENIES FRENCH CAPTURED SUSSEX ASSAILANT
BEItLTN, April 24. "Tho story that the French captured a German sur
marine which had attacked the steamship Sussex Is absolutely untrue," sold a
leading personage of tho Admiralty staff yesterday, "Wo know which submarine;
the French have. It was trapped some time after the Sussex episode and had
nothing to do with tho Sussex. We have no confirmation of the. report that tho
commander and crew of tho submarine were, sayed but hope that this is 'the fact."'
JUSTICE HUGHES MUST RUN, WHITMAN INSISTS
ALBANY, N, V., April 24. Governor Whitman issued a statement last n'lsht
In which-ho-rclterated his belief that Justice. Charles E. Hughes' was- the choice
of the Republicans for President. "J have not conferred with Justice Hughes on
tho subject," he said, "and I mean no disrespect to him when I say thatTtarn not
very deeply concerned about his individual desires In the matter, if th" people
of this nation believe that tho welfare of the Republic requires hlsVpresence In
tho White House, they have the right to' Insist that he shall go there. ' It Is for
them to decide, and not for him, and I purpose to do everything in' my power at
Chicago to assist In the free expression of the choice which I believe Is the slncer
and well-nigh universal choice of the members of the Republican party."
FIRE DESTROYS BIG WASHINGTON BUILDING
WASHINGTONi April, 24. Fire of unknown origin destroyed the general
office building of the Southern Railway here last night. The building occupied a
block on Pennsylvania avenue. In the heart of the city, just across the street
from the United States PostofHce, The flrq started on the third floor and had
swept the three stories above the oof before It was discovered. Three tefegraph
operators and a watchman, the only persons In the building at, the time, escaped
unhurt, "" i
GERMAN FLIERS BOMBARD BALTIC ISLAND
BERLIN (via Amsterdam), April 24. The following statement was liued by
the Admiralty last night; ' "Ten of our aeroplanes successfully bombarded, the
aerodrome at Patenholm, on Oesel." Oesel Is a small Island In the Baltlcftn the
domain of the Russian Government of Livonia. It Ilea across the entrance to thei
Quit of Riga. ' i . ,
CZAfc :HURT BY AVIATOR'S BOMB, BERLIN REPORTS
BERLIN, April 24. A narrow escape for-Emperor Nicholas of Russia from
death by bombs dropped by an Austrian airman, during a recent vjsl of rthe Em
peror to a southern sector of the Russian line, Is reported In Stockholm advices,
recelyed by the Oyerseas News Agency, "The Emperor was reviewing rthe troops
In company with General Brusslioff (commander of the. Ruisian oreW on, the
southwestern front) when suddenly an Austro-Hungarlan fljer appeared ami
dropped, numerous bombs which landed among the troops, whq fled In disorder,'
says the, report, "The Emperor, according to the reports, was hurtana baa a
narrow escape, the Incident causing him entirely to lose hjs self-possession. JCa
consequence, the reports add. General Brusslioff was bitterly reproached and
General Jvanpff was recalled to tho southwestern front heado.ua rtersV'
tf0lTZ yiCTIM OF TURK ASSASSIN, SAYS pPPRT
LONDON, 4arll St. A special dispatch to the Ifmdon. DsSjfi News from
Constantinople says Flsld Marshall von der Goltz, recently reporte!'to hy suc
cumbed, to fever, met a violent .death In Constantinople and did r.ot die la Meso
potamia. The report aids that other German pfficersNvere wiled.
Sim
PAWS, April 24. Reports fram Swiss and Italian aourceweay Field Marshal
von der Goltz was assassinated Immediately after the news of the fall pf Trvla4
reached Constantinople and when he was about to board aHraln far BerUB. Jkt
April 1 thS.fierUn" papers annovuic4
NEWS -
GERMAN EMBASSY HELD
A man who says he ,1s J&unel presses V
flip Wnalilnrrfnn Aowlmn 1inmlVt.i .''
K' r la
the. Fisjd Marshal was tmUyrt Mm
a
. 'Pj
rm
5?"
T-A-TL-OJr -fe4ffy4f4yjm m tinotuaatSi
t . -.. iffia -"?-
mtmr-
' OiitWri Ait m Jms atVfcaaUtir
i
$
