THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, APRIL 24, 191C
10 PAGES
.VOL'. XXVI, NO. 340
GERMAN CONCLUSION REACHED
IT IS YET TO BE MADE PUBLIC
Though There Is a Strong
German Chiefly Financial
Sentiment in Favor of
Peace, Press Comment Is
More Intensely Bitter
WASHINGTON EXPECTS
AN EARL Y INTIMA T10N
"NEWEST VASSAL"
OF GREAT BRITAIN
An Epithet Bestowed Upon
the United States Whose
Note Was So Timed as to
Give Assistance to the
Allies
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, April 23. (via Copenha
gen to London), April 24, 1:45 a. m.
The Imperial chancellor Dr. von
Rethmann-Hollweg returned to Ber
lin this afternoon which would seem
to justify the assumption that the
empire's responsible leaders at head
quarters have finished consideration
of the American note and reached
the decision concerning Herman's re
ply What thia reply will be is nat
urally unknown to any but the high
est officials.
The chancellor's return it is under
stood was not expected until Tuesday
hence a general decision appears to
have been reached earlier than looked
lor. There is no intimation as to
when the reply will be formulated
'nit there seems to be much signifi
cance in the fact that the Lokal An-
zeiger, which Is consistently well in
formed, says that "Germany's
strength and prestige have so in
creased in the last twenty months in
the eyes of the whole world that the
German government has Indeed, only
to follow the commandents of wis
dom.
The obvious deduction, according to
the viewpoint is that there is noth
ing to prevent Germany from making
certain concessions, if the leaders feel
that they can properly do so. Whether
they do feel that they can go thus
far, is of course another question.
There is unquestionably a consid
erable peace party in Germany which
includes powerful finar.ciul interests
represented by the Bourse organs and
the Frankfurter Zeitung and includ
ing also the Berlin Tageblatt and the
socialist organs. Certain high offi
cials, also would consent to a breach
or war with the United States only
most reluctantly and under pressure
of what seemed to them an unavoid
able necessity.
It may be noted with significance
that Maximilllan Harden was per
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 23. Ger
many s reply to tne American note uc
manding the immediate abandonment
of illegal and inhuman submarine war
fare probably will be before president
Wilson by Saturday. In the meantime,
nerhans within forty-eight hours, Am
bassador Gerard, at Berlin, is expected
to be in a position accurately to lore
cast the contents of the document.
The most recent dispatches received
from the ambassador were said to con
tain only quotations from editorials in
German newspapers. The general tone
of calmness displayed by the German
press was noted with satisfaction.
However, the editorial expressions
seemed not to alter anxiety over the
outcome. Count von Bernstorir, tne
German ambassador, was out of town.
He is expected to return tomorrow,
however, and during the day may call
at the state department in connection
with the return of papers seized in
New York by agents of the department
of justice from Wolfe von Igel, a for
mer attache of the embassy.
It is stated authoritatively that the
German embassy has no more infor
mation regarding the intentions of the
Berlin government than has the state
department. In some diplomatic quar
ters the statement made in dispatches
of the semi-official Overseas News
Agency that Germany will act "along
the lines of national dignity and respect
for neutral rights and international law
as well as for vital German interests,"
is regarded as beinj Hopeful indication.
Jt is pointed out that if neutral rights
and international law were strictly ob
served by the German government all
the sources of possible difficulties with
the L'nited States immediately would
be removed.
PROPOSED FLIGHT
ACROSS CONTINENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RAILROAD OFFICES
SWEPT BY FLAMES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
eiv nirnn ml Ai.ril s. Oscar: WA&lll.Nt. 1U., April :4.-A lire oi
t. Krindley, instructor at the United unknown origin gutted the general of
States armv aviation school here and
fice building of the Southern railroad
',, j ..i.. i here tonight.
a uaring av.uioi, a. m.umeu t.ma, u 8tarted on tne tnird floor am, had
would attempt a flight from either San j gwept tne three 8torU.8 al)OVe ,)(.fore it
iicbu oi ui .iwiS?ira iu ii as discovered. Three telegraph op
City to demonstrate an electric auto- ; erators and a watchman, the only per
matic stabilizer. He will be aceom-: sons in the building at the time, es
panied by A. J. Mary, a Chicago elec- leaped unhurt. The loss is estimated at
tncal engineer, and inventor of the approximately $200,000.
stabilizer, bearing his name. The' The office building was six stories,
flight will begin about May 15 and, ac- . a brick and stone structure, with
cording to Brindlev will be completed ' clock-tower located at the corner
in six days with 35 hours actual fligh ; I'ennsylvania avenue and Thirteenth
time. i street. It was built about twenty
Officials of the road said the mos
A rpecially constructed machine to ye?, a,s?'
i.o iiCo,i ,-. n,a i.. !.. Officials
comm-tlm. a 'JZ ."I... important records were in fireproo
.... t. Z vaults on the lower floors and had es
.... w,.,. l speed oi lia (.jped destruction. Although the
miles an hour, according to Brindley. flames made a furnace of the upper
Representatives of the French gov- prm of the building the lower floors
r. mucin n 1!f huiu win oincialiy ob- ! suffered chiefly from smoke and water.
sene me mgnt with the object of as- j Walter Snyder, a fireman, was show
ceitainlng the value of the electric ered with bricks as he climbed a lad
stabalizer. The controls of the aero- der. He was brought to the ground by
plane will be sealed prior to the utirt comrade and taken to a hospital, badly
of the flight and will not he n.Mi...i injured. The fire, which began at about
11 p. in., was iniitiiy moonlit unuvi
control shortly aft-r midnight. No
REAIf BATTLES
1 FRONTS
EXCEPT BALKAN
Conflicting Reports Come
Irom Pans and Rerlin Re
garding Results of Opera
tions in the Vicinity of
Verdun
RUSSIA SUFFERED
ON TWO - FRONTS
Narrow Escape of Emperor
Nicholas from an Austro
Ilungarian Aerial Bomb;
British Forced Back in
Mesopotamia
CARRANZA'S INNINGS
IN THE CHASE OF VILLA
THE U. S. STEPS ASIDE
Meantime American Mil
tary Status Quo in Mexico
Will Be Maintained and
Our Troops Will Be Re-Disposed
CARRANZA WELCOMED
until the aviators reach New v.irL-
SABBATH MEETING
OF SUFFRAGISTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES, April 23. The vis
iting members of the Congressional
Union for woman suffrage gathered in
a mass meeting here today at which
the purposes of the tour of the suf-
rraeists virp nvnhincH at ; 1 1 i
mitted to print a remarkable article Todd, a member of the child labor com-
iii ins paper AUKiinrt defending Pres- mission of New York and one of the
damage was done to adjoining prop
erties.
o
ENGLISH SOCIALISTS
SPLIT ON PACIFISM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN via London), April 23.
German forces were compelled to
evacuate newly won trenches on the
Langemarek Ypres road on account of
high floods which made the consoli
dation of the positions impossible, ac
cording to the official statement is
sued today.
A hand grenade attack made by the
English south of St. Sloi was repulsed.
French trendies on the left bank of
the Meuse, southeast of Haucourt and
west of Dead Man's Hill were cap
tured. The statement follows:
"Western front: We were com
pelled to evacuate our newly won
trendies on the Langcniarck-Ypres
road on account of high floods, which
made consolidation impossible.
"An English hand grenade attack
made toward morning south of St.
Eloi was repulsed. English patrols,
which advanced in the night against
our lines on both sides of the liapau-
ine-Albert high road after preparation
by strong artillery lire were repulsed.
"Near Tracy Le Yal an enemy gas
attack was unsuccessful.
"Clouds of gas were swept back in
the direction of the French.
"On the left bank of the Meuse
southeast of Haucourt and west of
Headman's Hill we have taken enemy
trenches. On the right bank of the
river in the YVoevre plain and on the
heights, carellite fight-ns was con
tinuous.
Eastern theater: South of Narocz
lake an attack by a Russian battalion
was broken down before our obstruc-
ions. The enemy losses were heavy,
elsewhere, with the exception of local
outbursts by artillery and some other
encounters there is nothing to re
port.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 23. Behind
the formal announcement today that
President Wilson had approved a
plan for a re-disposition of the
American troops in Mexico there was
a pla'n intimation tonight that the
Washington government had determ
ined to maintain a military status quo
beyond the border until the Mexican
de facto government hal demonstrat
ed its ability to rapture or crush
Villa and his adherents and prevent
repetitions of the Columbus raid.
In the interior, it is understood, the
American troops will be so placed as
to safeguard the border towns by
policing the areas south of the line
where General Carranza has been
heretofore unable to click bandit op
erations. Secretary Baker announced the ap
proval of the re-disposition plan af
ter consulting with the president to
day over a joint report submitted by
Major General Funston and Major
General Scott, chief of staff, in con
ference on the border. The plan has
been approved by General Funston
MEXICO CITY, April 23. Tocay
and tonight were given over to
the culminating celebration in
honor of the visit of General Ve
nustiano Carranza, first chief of
the constitutionalists, to the City
of Mexico. The celebration was I
the greatest in the capital since I
the days of the centennial. j
WILD GOUHTRY
FOR HUNTING i
IS GUERRERO
RESURRECTION
OFTHE BANDIT
American Cavalry Find Lit
tle Except Scenery with
Now and Then a Small
Elusive Group of Villista
Bandits
NO HELP COMES
FROM. THE NATIVES
15 REPORTED
Villa Said to Have Been
Seen at the Head of a
Band of 200 Followers in
the Northeastern Part of
Mexico
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRESIDIO, Tex., April 23 A mes-
The Latter Fear the Ven
geance of the Bandits
when Pursuing Troops
Have Been "Withdrawn
from That Region
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FIELD HEADQUARTERS IN MEX
ICO, April 21. By Aeroplane to Co
lumbus, N. M., April 23.) The week's
riding and foot climbing through the
hills and canyons of the Guerrero dis
trict, a cavalry squadron reported to
day the discovery of much evidence
that the Villistas-in the northern part
of Villa's old territory are thoroughly
scattered. They found the influence of
these bandits nevertheless strong with
the people.
One day this cavalry rode along a
, . . j.. . v a .. mesa, o.uuu teet in aitituue, a, uuiiuw,
and concurred in by General Scott. enger has reached Ojuiaga opposite j almot jeve, lai n between 'two moun.'
itie secretary announced the admin- nere witn tne report that Villa is at tain ranges. On the eastern sid
standpoint in plain
ident Wilson's
words.
With the possible exception of a
handful of extremists there appears
to be nobody In Germany desirous of
a break or war with the United
States. It Is evident however, that
If the government should reject the
demands of the American note re
sppcting submarine warfare, it would
find the united support of Germans
of all parties.
Germans of nil parties, even those
to whom the Idea of a rupture be
tween Germany and the United
States is most, distasteful agree In
feeling that the government must re
fuse to weaken its means of warring
against Great Britain, though this
should mean a breach with the Unit
ed States.
A faint note of optimism Is sound
ed by the Vorwaerts, the organ of
the social democratic party, but other
papers speak cpenly of "an unavoid
able break."
A. striking feature in connection
with Hie whele matter, Is the fact
that the press almost unanimously
speaks of "Wilson's note," and only
in exceptional cases, of "the Ameri
can note."
Most of the papers disregard re
ports showing that congress Is sup
porting President Wilson and the
Post declares that Mr. Wilson "by
no means has a safe majority behind
him."
The Ix)kal Anzeiger speaks of
President Wilson as "a short-sighted
man, desirous of the victory of might,
which will bo America's greatest en
emy In the future," and declares that
he is "trying to place a false halo
on his own head.''
The Tages Leishe Rundschau sur
passes even the Tages Zeitung's cus-
principai speakers at the meeting said:
lou people in California cannot real
ize the ignorance, narrow-mindedness,
prejudice and indifference which we
Women encounter in the east."
She called on Californians for aid.
Miss Lucy Burns who is acting as
leader of the suffrage party, Mrs. Har
riett Stanton Platen of New York, pres
ident of the Women's Political Union
and J. H. Hraley, who was introduced
as the "father of woman suffrage in
California" also spoke.
The visiting delegation will leave Los section.'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, April 24. 12:4:'. a. m The
opening of the fifth annual conrerence
of the British socialist party at Salford
yesterday was marked by turbulent
scenes resulting front the passage of
a resolution to exclude the press. Thir
ty delegates left the conference and
went to Manchester where they isssud
a manifesto condemning the resolu
tion as the climax of a determined at
tempt to subordinate the policy of the
organization to "pernicious anti-na
tionai pacificism at a time when we
are engaged in a life and death strug
gle with German militarism and Ger
man atrocities." The Salford confer
ence continued in secret session and
issued a counter statement impugning
the action of what is called the "power
RESU1E OE GENERAL CONFLICT
S BUTTLE FRONTS
DN 1ER0
leiepuDiican . r. Leased wirej pons, or about 600,000 men In the
.Batles of heavy proportions have fighting or in reinforcing units which
been in progress in all the war the- sintered heavy losses.
aters except the Balkans. Successes The Germans claim the capture of
for the entente allies and the Teu- French trenches in the Verdun region
tonic allies have varied. Four ves-1 southeast of Haucourt, and west of
sels, an Italian steamer, a French Deadman's Hill, while Paris records
bark and two British steamers are 'the taking of several German posts
(Continued on Page Three)
reported to have been sunk by sub
marines. All their crews are believed
to have been saved.
Dr. von Bethamnn-Hoilweg, the
German chancellor, has returned to
Berlin after a visit to army head
quarters where he discussed the
American note to Germany concern
ing Germany's submarine warfare
with the German leaders. The chan
cellor's early return is taken to indi
cate that Germany's reply has been
formulated
On the Verdun front, where for
tpwo months the Germans and French
have been almost continuously in
battle, the Germans, according to an
estimate of the French war office,
up to April 22, had used thirty divis-
Turkish Operations
CONSTANTINOPLE, April 22 (via
London, April 23). The Russians
have met with a check in their opera
tions in Pouthern Armenia according
to an official statement by the Turks.
The Russians also have been defeated
in a battle south of Bitlis and driven
back after an engagement to the east
istration's decision as follows
"General Funston ha recommended
.1 re-disposition of the forces in Mex- j
ico for the purpose of recuperation I
and pending opportunities for other
co-operation with the forces of tlie
de facto government in Mexico. The
recommendation has been approved
anil its execution left to his discre
tion."
Later the secretary dictated trs?
illowing:
"The statement I have made indi
cates nothing whatever on the sub
let! of when the American troops
will be withdrawn from Mexico. The
whole subject of withdrawal of the
forces is under arrangement and ne
gotiation by the state I'epartment."
It is stated positively that no ad
ditional regiments has been ordered
to the border and that no such or
der was in contemplation. The secre
tary made it clear also that military
facials of the government were not
considering the Question of with
i side of the
Agua Chili on the Vicent! ranch with ! mesa was a fringe of low bushes, sev-
(Continued on i"age Two)
Coalition Seems
About To Break
On Conscription
Part Canadians Played ,
On Northwestern Fronts
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA, Ont.,
I the construction of trenches was dif-
I ri..if .
April 23. Desper- uhnntina. haa mrto,i lho
ate fighting on the St. Eloi salient work (f the Canadian artillery, both
In which Canadian Overseas forces' In retaliatory and organized bom-
Ibardments the reports state.
participated occurred last week ac
cording to official advices made pub
lic here tonight. The Canadians un
der the most trying circumstances,
The report tells of the death of
Tom Jones, a youthful private of the
ISth battalion, sanitary section. Jones,
It is stated, who was commonly be-
Y. 1 .1 I. I i , . i .... 1.. . . . J
ii.-m mcir Krounu anu in auauion oc-1 neved to nave been a deserter from
cupied a portion of an enemy trench both the British and American navies
during which many instances of in- distinguished himself by repeatedly
dividual heroism were recounted the volunteering for dangerous duties
report said. i While assisting in
Enemy guns pounded incessantly It 'men and guiding them back to the
was stated, but the Canadians re-1 Canadian lines, Jones was shot and
pelled all attacks, dug trenches and killed by a German sniper. For gal
maintained their positions. With the Inntry on a previous occasion he had
Germans overlooking the greater part been recommended by his command
of the area, however, and the ground lng officer for the distinguished con
soaked with water from heavy rains, duct medal.
in the Avocourt woods. Hill No. 304
is again under .heavy bombardment
by the Germans.
Trenches taken by the Germans
from the British on the Langemarek -
Ynres road have been evacuated ow
ing to floods, which made their con
solidation Impossible.
The Germans are still using their
big guns against the Ikskull bridge
head on the Russian front and far
trujr south have repulsed a Russian
attack in the Lake Narocz region
The annihilation of a German scout
ing party near Lake Vygonovskoye,
and the destruction of an Austrian
post north of Czartorysk are reported
from Petrograd. Ten German aero
! planes have bombed the Russian av
iation station on Ose Island, in the
Gulf of Riga, at the entance to the
Baltic Sea.
The Italians and Austrians have
fought a sanguinary engagement on
the Carso front near Selz in which
: the Italians captured 3li0 metres of
strian trenches and took a number
of prisoners and a quantity of rifles
and other war stores.
While the Russians report that in
the Caucasus region near Aschkala,
fifty miles west of Erzerum, they
have captured an important sector of
the Turkish position, Constantinople
says that south of liitlis, the Turks
have defeated the Russians and sent
them In retreat toward Bit lis.
In an engagement east of Mush, the
Russians were again forced to re
treat. An attempt of the Russians to
debouch south of Trebizond was
stopped by the Turks. Fighting is in
progress between the Turks and a
Russian detachment which landed on
the ,'tlack Sea coast 10 miles west of
Trebizond.
The British relief corps which is
endeavoring to lift the siege of Kut-El-Amara
have failed in further ef
forts to advance along the Tigris
river owing to the flooded condition
of the country.
200 followers. Agua Chili is 100 miles
south of Ojinaga in the Camargo dis
trict. One hundred and fifty Carran-
zistas are encamped on the Conchos
eral miles long, apparently bordering
the foot of the eastrn mountains. The
cavalry veered into these bushes for a
search, and at their further edge came
river nhmit f.ii.- mil from oiinsra ! abruptly upon a canyon, tuny a tnou-
The report that the Ojinaga garrison I and deeP- which shut them off
had been reinforced is denied by the i frora the mountains. The mesa and the
commander of the garrison, who made surrounding mountains were yellow
his denial to military authorities here. : i5T SIS ' hT"a"
, - . , ., i of spring in the niKti altitude, but at
There has been no explanation of the the lottom of the canyon lay' a lonff
presence of Carranzistas near Ojinaga. i va brilliant in the green of new
It is said they will endeavor to ,-revent . color grass and trees in leaf A
the crossing of any American troops itream ran tne lengths of this valiev.
from this point. It is known authonta- witn Mexican adobe dwellings dotting
tiveiy that Colonel Jose Riojas will be its banks at intervals for miles. Most
transferred from Ojinaga. The name of the canyon sides were inaccessible,
of his successor has not been made ; but with trails leading up the slopes
known. every five or ten miles. The cavalry-
men took one of these trails. Descend
i ing, they noted repeatedly the hoof-
i prints of Mexican ponies, which had
ascended this trail.
In most ofHhis Guerrero region a man
LOS ANGELES, April 23. Two ' on horseback is invariably either a Car
workmen probably were fatally injured ranza soldier or a bandit. The caval
and four were painfully burned in an i rymen knew no Carranza patrols had
exnlosion and fire at the municipal I oeen iiisl way. xney iouiiu piani evi-
INCINcRATING PLANT BURNS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
refuse incinerator here tonight. An-
orawing from Mexico that matter other workman is reported missing.
hein wbniiv in ti, l...- i . ... . . The explosion wrecked tne uunuing
niing nnolly in the bands of the state I ' ,iiiri, r.flhf fire it is be
lieved that a gasoline tank exploded.
(Continued on Page Two)
LOPEZ CAUGHT
SANTA ISABEL
RED MURDERER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. April 23. The political
truce arising out of the recent cabinet
compromise is likely to be of very Drier
duration. David Lloyd George minis
ter of munitions, still remains tne
ttr.rm renter while another point of dif
ficulty appears to be the attitude or tne
labor party toward the government.
The acceptance of by Arthur Hen
itorson oresi dent of the board of edu
cation and his supporters in tne iaoor
partv, of a compromise condition on
holding a secret session of parliament
which apparently involves tne corner
sion of the parliamentary laborites to
eomnnlsorv service, should ine inior
mation the government is able to give
in the secret session satisfy tnem inai
the necessary men cannot be obtained
bv anv other means, is creating a con
sidera'ble amount of suspicion among
labor men outside of parliament and
trade unionists generally, wno are oe
ginning to doubt the wisdom of holding
a secret session. They fear that some
thing will bo done behind their back
and that they will be committed to
compulsory military service against
their will.
Mr. Lloyd George seems determined
to make a strong fight without, loss of
time against the attacks from his own
party. An interview will appear In the
morning papers tomorrow with John
Norton Griffiths, unionist members of
parliament attacking the coalition gov
ernment for "calmly adjourning parlia
ment over Easter and leaving the most
momentous decision on history, In the
balance."
Mr. Griffiths asserts that thousands
of ablo bodied men are employed in
needless public works in Great liritain
who must be liberated for the front,
and that the country is sick of the gov
ernment's inertia. He advocates giv
ing Premier Asquith a peerage, to
mnke way for a new unionist cabinet
under David Lloyd George, including
the Australian premier, William Morris
Hughes and that the new cabinet
should summon the premiers of the Do
minions so that there may be a real
imperial council behind the cabinet.
Will Thorne, social democrat, for
West Ham South, and a well known
labor leader addressing a meeting at
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Tex., April 23. Paolo Lo
pez, the Villa lieutenant responsible for
the murder ol seventeen Americans at
EGYPT S TOMBS
hue secrets
of centuries;
dences that men had camped at the
hacienda. Nevertheless, it required all
the balance of the day, by careful and
adroit questioning, and some sharp
talking, to gain from any Mexican on
the hacienda the bare admission that
bandits had stopped there. That was
every scrap of informaiton which could
be gleaned.
The cause of this reticence was fear
of retaliation by the bandits. Many
American officers, although noting the
coldness of the Mexican population and
the flat refusal of most Mexicans to
give any aid in the Villa pursuit, have
become convinced mat when the
American troops are withdrawn, most
of the few Mexicans who have been
courteous to the Americans will be
killed by these bandits. Even Mexi
cans who have sold food too freely to
the Americans are considered likely to
have forfeited their lives.
Most of the bandits now are living in
the mountains in groups of two or three
and often singly, taking their food
from friends, or by threats from peace
ful Mexicans. The cavalrymen have
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PHILADELPHIA, April 23. Valua- j
ble archaeological specimens ranging
from the second dynasty to the Byzan- captured a good many of these men.
Santa Ysabel. and who wi Bh.t t'ne empire (5500 B. C. to 500 A. D.) but it has been extremely difficult to
through both lees in the raid on r,iir, have been unearthed, according to re-i find any evidence on which to hold
uus, .ew Mexico, was captured vester- " ,rt,:"ru l," '-" ;,', ' 1 1 ? ,
d-iv bv r'irranii.,u . i esler I Pennsylvania today from Dr. Clarence ; the bandits make their presence known
hi i crfme according to Wnr. S,'',ene f s- Fih- director of the University's to the cavalrymen by a few long range
; (e i General Cv?r Egyptian exposition. ! shots. Thus far not one American has
. u""lv y central Gavim. Perhaps one of the most remarkable , been hit in the sniping. A motorcycle
Jins news was contained in mes- specimens. Dr. Fisher states, is a neck-, rider, carrying dispatches through a
Hired with him, the four being taken In
a mountain cave where they had been
ntuing in a starving conditiqn. All are
being taken to Chihuahua City.
J:csidenti of Santa Tomas also noti
fied General Gavira todav that their
town was attacked this morning by I tne 'SyPt'a government,
u i n . ... ' i lnnsiiu l;)7ttli furm With ITi
f -l - i
uses noiii wie iviexican government op- i -ith namhn hearts in-
erator at Santa Ysabel, who said that scribed with the cartouche of Sesostris.
ne nad himself seen Lopez. It was I These are said to be the first in
hoped information regarding Villa j scribed beads ever found in Egypt and
might be obtained from Lopez. are looked upon as one of the most im-
i nree or Lopez s followers were cap- portant discoveries in recent years. The
necklace is believed to have been worn
by a daughter of Sesostris, a great king
who was identified with a Pharaoh of
the twelfth dynasty, about 3500, B. C.
Other discoveries reported by Dr.
Fisher, half of which were claimed by
include a
lapsus lazuli form with golden eyes,
numerous bronze pieces, 500 pieces ot
pottery and some stelae from the tombs
of many men in many ages. These
stelae were found in the interior of the
tombs and contained carved illustra
tions from the life of the dead with
hieroglyphic inscriptions telling of their
deeds. In the earliest graves, about
7,000 years old, children were found
buried beside a cow or a calf. Among
the bronzes were many mirrors found
in the tombs of women who, archaeol
ogists say, were supposed to need this
toilet accessory even in death.
Manuel Baca, recently reported killed
in an engagement with American sol
diers and fifteen other Villa bandits.
They said that they defeated and scat-.
tered the bandits after killing Baca and
several others.
Accompanying the message was a re
quest from the residents for informa
tion as to whether they could claim a
reward which they understood had been
offered tor the body of Baca. General
Gavira wired instructions to have the
body sent to Juarez. Information re
garding capture of Lopez and killing of
Baca was forwarded to Mexican Min
ister Arredondo at Washington by Con
sul Garcia.
The news from Washington that
there was not a present intention to
withdraw the troops from Mexico was
received with satisfaction by army of
ficers here although they frankly ad
mitted that they were puzzled by the
wording of Secretary Baker's an
nouncement. The words "pending an
opportunity for further cooperation
wKh the forces of the de facto govern
ment" were particularly the subject of
discussion.
The only cooperation which will
prove really effective, in the opinion of
local officers. Is the use of the rail
reads and they assume that Secre
tary Baker's statement means a halt
mountainous region, had one of the
closest calls. Three mounted men, con
cealed behind an adobe house which he
had to pass, dashed out at him, leaped
from their horses aier opened fire on
him with rifles at 25 yards. They hit
the machine but did not damage it. The
dispatch rider, with a spurt, gained the
cover of a gate post. Gates are rareties
in this section, but when they are con
structed they are massive enough to
last half a centruy without repairs. The
gate post behind which this messenger
took cover was made from a tree two
feet in diameter. With his pistol tne
dispatch rider opened fire and drove
the Mexicans off, although he could not
tell whether he hit any of them.
One of the indices of the scattering
Villistas is the difference noted now in
Mexican towns as compared with these
places when the troops first readied
them nearly a month ago. At that time
several of the mountain towns were ob
served to have many young, tough
looking and armed men loitering about
the streets. Now few such characters
are to be seen anywhere in the towns.
London tonight with reference to the 1 " ? 1 Isu1'" lne rauroau
crisis sniil he hel.t no hriof fr T.MmlQ question is c-ujusteu.
Asqulth but it it were a question of
putting "the uncrowned king of Wales"
into Mr. Asruiith's position, he would
have nothing to do with' Mr. Lloyd
George who favored military and in
dustrial compulsion.
Philip Snowden, socialist for Blaek-
Durn. addressing a meeting at New
It is not believed here that General
Funston Is considering the establish
ment of a new line of communication
which would involve the abandonment
of the Columbus-Casas Grandes mo
tor trail. The general's action in ord
ering 2200 additional troops to Colum
bus and the detailing of additional
1 forces to guard the line south of Co-
rvjotio i j j, ' 7 7. 1 lorces
:l , lear lnat the lumbus, Indicate that this route will
parliamentary labor party was assist- x. 5 : -
ing the lorces ot reaction. (Continued on Page feix)
War Is Without Terrors
For The Women Of Russia
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1 1S77. At the time her identity be-
PETROGRAD. April 23.-The brav-1 fam known l.he ,?irl was in a reg
iij uiv. , iment serving in Galicia. For a long
ery of the women soldiers who have j Ume the men had concealed her sex
managed to get into the Russian ar- from the authorities. The officer dis
my is again strikingly recalled by the ; covered the truth accidently. He
decoration bestowed upon a Russian i wished to take the soldier as his
sister of charity, Mile. Ivanof f, and ! orderly on account of "his good" con
the proposed decoration of Tanja I duct and youth, and had summoned
Kakourine, a girl sixteen years of j "him" to his quarters. He was struck
age. by the face and the eyes; he asked
Mile. Ivanoff, finding herself close ; questions and the girl began by de
to a company which had lost all its I nying but finally burst Into tears and
officers, placed herself at its head ' confessed. This girl shared all the
and captured a hostile trench before j difficulties of the service and all the
which the troops were hesitating, j dangers of a battle with the others.
Mortally wounded, she was, by lm- Her bravery has been the marvel of
penal command, decorated w an tne her male companions. She has a
Cross of St. George in enamel, a dis-! pleasing appearance, a round face,
tinction to. which only officers are shining with health and lo-ks well in
entitled. uniform. The men protect her by
Tanja, a girl with masculine name, I common accord and act towards her
got into a regiment in much the same ! as father and mother with touching
circumstances and the same disguise ' solicitude. She has just been pro
as her mother joined a Russian com- posed for the cross and medal of St.
pany In the war against Turkey injGeorge.
