THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 34.
IUUHE, VERMONT. MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
t
h
I.
GERMANY WILL
OFFER CERTAIN
CONCESSIONS
But Her Foreign Office Professes to be
Faced bv Problem of Satisfying the
United States and Still Not Arouse
German Element Clamoring for Sub-
marine Activity
PLUGGING AWAY
AT GERMAN LINE
NEAR CAURETTE
The French Keep Worrying
the Crown Prince's Army
at That Point, and Paris
Reports That Progress
Was Made Northwest o
the Wood
WASHINGTON OFFICIALS
ARE MORE HOPEFUL
But It Is Not Known Whether the Con
cessions Will be Broad Enough to
Meet the Demands of United States
Confidential Advices From Gerard
Received
Washington, D. C, April 24. Confidential despatches from
Ambassador Gerard at Berlin indicate that Germany will make
certain concessions to the United States in response to the note
A FEW PRISONERS
WERE CAPTURED
Germans Continue Their At
tentions on Dead Man's
Hill and a Heavy Bom
bardment Was Kept Up
Last Night, as Though in
Preparation for an Infan
try Attack
FRENCH EFFORTS FAIL.
raris, April 24. French troops made
progress last night on the Verdun front,
northwest of Caurette wood, the war
oflice announced this afternoon. They
attacked with hand grenades and in the
lighting they took 30 prisoners, one of
l j 1 1 ui an uiiirur. ocvcrtll uniuttii reuuu
noitering parties were dispersed south
demanding the immediate abandonment of the present submarine iw"S."Ai5.
warfare methods. Whether the concessions will be sufficiently I of the Meuse the night was comparative
.l ii.. a : j j un .,.,-,- ly calm
iMnort T r rri nor I nu u mpru-M r iihiiih rn ih x i ii it- r r ? i ii i irr mil ri iyiiii. -
However, officials effect an air of hopefulness for an amicable set
tlement of the issue. "
It is understood that Ambassador Gerard received broad inti
mations that the German government will go to great lengths to
reserve friendly relations with the United States. He is under
stood to have gained the impression from the officials of the Berlin
foreign office, including Fpreign Minister Von Jagow, that the
Berlin government is confronted with the finding of a way to sat
isfy the United States without arousing an element which insists
upon a relentless submarine campaign. Ambassador Gerard's der
patches were highly confidential and were received during the
night. -' v f - ....
Berlin, April 23, via Copenhagen to
London, April 24. The imperial chancel
lor, Dr. Von Bethmann-Hollweg, returned
to Berlin this afternoon, which would
seem to justify the assumption that the
empire's responsible leaders at great
headquarters have finished consideration
of the American note and reached a de
cision concerning Germany's reply. What
this reply will be is naturally unknown
to any but the highest officials.
The chancellor's return, it is under
stood, was not expected until Tuesday,'
hence a general decision appears to have
been reached earlier than looked for.
There is no intimation of when the reply
will be formulated, but there seems to
be much significance in the fact that the
Lokal Anzieger, which is consistently
well informed, says that "Germany's
strength and prestige have so increased
in the last 20 months in the eyes of the
whole world that the German govern
ment has, indeed, only to follow the
commandments of wisdom."
The obvious deduction, according to
the view here, is that there is nothing to
prevent Germany from makinjr certain
concessions if the leaders feel that they
can properly do so. Whether they do
feel that they can go thus far is, of
course, another question.
There is unquestionably w, consider
able peace party in Germany, which in
cludes powerful financial interests repr-
sented by the Bourse organs and the
Frankfurter Zeitnng, and including also
the Berlin Tageblatt and Socialist or
gans. Certain high officials, also,-would
consent to n breach or war with the
T'nited States only most reluctantly and
under pressure of what seemed to thera
an unavoidable necessity.
CARRIAGE STRUCK BY AUTO.
Mrs.
SETTLED THRICE
AND PAID $143.76
. FOR FISHING
Two Disciples of Isaak Wallon Fined,
First for Fishing Out of Season, Next
for Fishing Without Licenses and
Again for Fishing in
Private Pond.
Hyde Park, April 24. On complaint of
County Fish and Game Warden J. T.
Elevens, two men have been forced to
pay three stparatc times for tithing in
Corry pond, a private preserve in Eden.
The men are Volney Parker and lavid
Burgess of 1-ouell. The men were caught
fishing in the xnd by K. L. Fairbanks
and others who leased the pond.
When arraigned before Justice F. P.
Collins of Fdcn Mills they pleadei guil-j
tv to fi-l.inff during the clowd season.,
Charles Higgins of North Ira Made
Unconscious.
Rutland, April 2t. Mrs. Charles Hig
gins of North Ira received serious in
ternal injuries Saturday evening when
the carriage in which she was riding
with her husband and ft young boy
was struck by a taxicab driven by Den
nis Noonan of Proctor at a point in the
road immediately opposite the home of
George R, Bliss at Center Rutland. The
accident occurred about 8 o'clock and
persona who witnessed the collision state
that the auto-bus was on the wrong side
of the road. Dr. Bradford 0. Powers was
immediately summoned, arriving about
lu minutes atter tile call, llie woman,
in an unconscious condition, was taken
to the Bliss house and later to her home
in Ira. The man and boy were not hurt.
According to the story of Mr. Higgins,
he and Mrs. Jliggms were on their way
to Rutland to do their Saturday trading
when without warning they were struck
by the taxicab which was coming in an
opposite direction. Mr. Higgins and the
ooy, wno wag aoout 14 years of age,
were" thrown from the carriage by the
shock but the woman remained in the
buggy, which was badly broken up.
When Frank and Harrv IShedd and other
neighbors hurried to the scene of the
accident, Mrs. Higgins was found to be
unconscious in a cramped position in the
bottom of the carriage.' One tooth was
broken and' she had a few bruises about
the face and arms and was injured inter
nally. '
German
Official Report Says' Attacks
Were Repulsed.
Berlin, via London, April 24. French
attacks on German lines in several sec
tions of the Verdun region have been re
pulsed, the war office announced to-dayj
J he chief Jrench efforts were directed
against the vicinity of Thiaumont farm,
but broke down in front of the German
trenches.
BURNED FATALLY
IN HIS HOME
George Maynard, 26, of Burlington, May
Have Tipped Over a Kerosene Lamp
He Was Burned from Head
to Foot.
Burlington, April 2-4. George - May
nard died at Mary Fletcher hospital yes
terday afternoon from burns received at
his residence on Conger avenue Saturday
evening. Considerable mystery attaches
to the manner in which Mavnard was
burned. The first that was known of
anything unusual was when the man
rushed out of the house screaming 'for
help, his clothing beinir in flames. A
lively blaze had started in his apart
ments on the second floor. Aid was at
once given the man who was immediate
ly rushed to the hospital in the police
ambulance while the fire department rc
sponded to an alarm. The theory is that
Maynard, who was alone in the house
at the time, was preparing a lunch and
either tipped over a kerosene lamp or the
lamp exploded. Whatever happened, his
clothing became saturated almost in
stantly with flaming oil. The unfor
tunate man's body was burned from head
to foot.
Mr. Mavnard was 26 years of age. He
is survived by his wife, who was Mis
Alma Duhaniel and whom he married
about five vcars ago. He also leaves his
mother, . Mrs. Regina Maynard; two
brothers, Arthur and Frederick; and four
sisters, Mary, Bertha, Anna and Yvon,
all of Lakeside. The body was taken to
the undertaking establishment of Arsene
Boucher on North street.
VERY SEVERE TREMOR
OF EARTH MARKED
BY SEISMOGRAPH
Director Tondorf of Georgetown Univers
ity Believes if It Occurred in Inhab
ited Region That Great Damage
Must Have Been Done.
Washington, D. C, April 24. Two se-
ere earthquakes, one of them of great
intensity, were recorded on the seismo
graphs at Georgetown university this
morning. The heaviest shock came at
21. It was estimated that the center
f the disturbance was about 2,400 miles
way and Director Tondorf believed that
it occurred in an inhabited zone it
must have done considerable damage.
SECOND CLASH
NEAR SATEVO
IS REPORTED
The American and Carranza
Troops Said to Have Me
in an Encounter in Which
Several Negro Soldiers o
the United States Were
Killed; Report Not Con
firmed
EL PASO POLICE
GET INFORMATION
Juarez Authorities Seem to
Credit' the Report, but
Nothing Has Been Heard
of It on the American Side
of the Boundary, and the
Story Is Discredited
MONTPELIER
to
HOSTILE AEROPLANE
WAS DRIVEN OFF
British Guns Were Effective and the
Aviator Could Not Tarry to Drop
Bombs on Dover, England.
London, April 24. A hostile aeroplane
appeared over Dover this afternoon,
was attacked by British guns and wag
driven off without dropping bombs.
But
ASKED FOR PROBATION
Alex McMillan Failed to Get
Wish in Montpelier Court.
His
John W. Paine Makes Second-Visit
Capital in 47 Years.
John W. Paine of Havana, Cuba, the
establisher of the Allen cigar manufac
tory of Montpelier 50 years ago, arrived
in the city yesterday for the first visit
to Montpelier for 20 years and the second
visit since he left 47 years ago. He plans
to spend a week in the city and hopes to
renew acquaintances with many of his
former friends. He established a, cigar
store 00 years ago on State etreet in the
old Rialto building but suffered heavily
after the flood in the fall of 1809 and left
soon after for Baltimore, Md., disposing
of his business to the late Arthur Allen.
He resided in Baltimore for many years.
going to Havana shortly after the close
ot the war with ispain and has been In
the I'nited States government service for
ltl Years, A son, Charles H. Paine, born
here, is now a major in the 20th United
States infantry and is stationed at Pan
ama. J he elder Mr. l atne was a mem
ber of the Fales Montpelier Military
band.
FUNERAL OF E. 0. J0SLVN.
Was Held Saturday in Waitsfield He
Died on Thursday.
Waitsfield, April 24. The funeral of
Edward O. Joslyn was held Saturday at
1. p. m.. Rev. William A. Remele, pastor
of the Congregational church, officiating.
A short service was held in tho villairo
.cemetery, where the casket was opened
for relatives and frimds. The bearers
were Oramel S. Joslyn, Orrin H. Jonlrn,
Warren J. Palmer and J. E. Berry. Xo
service was possible at his lute home,
as the house was in quarantine . for
measles.
Mr. Joslyn had an attack of the grip,
which developed into pneumonia, and the
end came Thursday at the home of C. D.
Joslyn, his nephew, where he resided.
Edward Oscar Joslyn was the son of
Cyrus and Calista ,(Camplell) Joslyn and
was born December IS. 142, the young
est of ten children. He is survived by
two sisters. Miss .Minerva Joslyn, who
resides with Miss Abbie Minor." and bv j
Miss Betsey Joslyn. at C. D. Jslvn'
Talker paying 517.1U and Purges paying also by two nephews. C. D. Jotdvn and
$18.39. Next dRy they were hauled up Walter C. Joslvn, road commiionW. and
license, and each j by one nicer. Mrs. Charles Johnson- of
Having nettled the Newport, X. H.
for fishing without
paid :.( for that.
second time, thry were called upon to
settle for private damages, h-n each
was forced to pay (25. State's Attorney
M. P. Maurice prosecuted.
FARMER DIED SUDDENLY.
Charles Metcalf Had Been Very Promi
nent in Iraitnrg.
Newport, April 24. Charles Metcalf,
45 years old, a prominent fanner of r
rnire. seven mile from this town, died
suddenly yesterday of heart trouble. He
w one of tKe brt known mm in the
town, baling- held nearly all of the town
.?. He is survived by a wi'e nl six
chi'.dren.
HURT IN CARELESS DRIVING.
Young People Going Home from a Dance
Engage in Race.
Lyndonville. April 21 Edith lee, ajred
20, was quite seri.msly iniurel about the
houMer and lwok and Clinton lrbi rr,
22, was bruied aUnit the head when two
trams collided at Lyndon late Saturday
night, MiM T-ee, lancer and Miss 1U
icl Ledurrr were on their wv home from
a dance when tiny en?;r-d another team
in a r. The r1!i-in rc--i'te. in the
oTertumirc f their waon and the bor-e
drarred them for riw i;t .n.-. e
ant hrnes were derool.sh'-d.
Monltielier citv court nrrsrnteil bus
ier appearance this forenoon than it has
for many a Monday, sevefal intoxication
cases being disposed of and two cases in
which the respondent faces a charge of
illegal selling being continued.
Alexander McMillan, who was ad
judged guilty Saturday afternoon after
a trial, on evidence submitted by Officers
Sloan and Baldwin, the respondent not
testifying, asked to be placed on proba
tion. His was a third offense and as his
term of parole had just expired, the
grand juror, A. C. Theriault. recommend
ed that he be sent to vNaterbury for a
period of six months. McMillan notified
the court that he had a new job in Barre
and believed he would not again be an
offender. The court observed that Barre,
after the first of next week, misrht not
be an ideal place for one who appeared
to be Inclined to imbibe much too freely
on numerous occasions and McMillan was
sent to Waterbury for six months, after
fine of $ 15 had been suspended.
Charle LaRose, a West Berlin farm
laborer, who was arrested Saturday by
Officer Baldwin after he had tried to
take out a hunting license tit the city
clerk's office but failed because he could
not remember his name, pleaded cuiltv
to a first offense of intoxication and said
he hoped to pay a fine, which, with costs,
mounted to fll.40. diaries Ballard
agreed that tie had been guiltv of a third
offense and was fined $15 and costs. He
had scant hopes of raising the money
but was given a chance to do so in the
custody of an officer.
The case against Annie March!,
charged with selling, was continued un
til May 8 on the request of Attorney
William Lord, counsel for the respond
ent. Because of the absence from the
city of State's Attorney Oleason, the
case against Mrs. Trueha of Berlin street,
also charged with selling, was continued
indefinitely.
Byron Stanley, a truckman, was ar
rested on the charge of stealing a bale
of hay. He pleaded cuiltv and wilt be
sentenced this afternoon. Mrs. Mary
Monti of Putnam street was nrrested on
a warrant issued by (.rand Juror Ther
iault, charsring furnishing. She will be
arraigned later in the day.
BURLINGTON HOTELS LEASED.
Vermont and Van Nens Taken by T. Ed
mund Krumholx of Camden, S. C.
Burlinzton. April 24. The hotels Ver
mont and Van Xess have bern leased to
L- 1' i 1 v - u i . i
The funeral of Mrs. Sarah Templeton
Or ma bee, whose death oe-urred Friday,
was held yesterday afternoon at 1:30
o'clock from the home of her nephew, Dr.
F. L. Templeton, on Ioomis street. The
bearers ' were Lyle Young and Cortex
Dingwall of East Montpelier and Lynn
Brooks and William Burnham of this
city. Tho body was placed in the vault
at Green Mount cemetery and will be
burled later in the Cutler cemetery.
The body of Mr. Frank T. Hutehin-'
son, whose death occurred last week in !
Melrose, Ma,sg., at the home of her par- J
ents, will probably arrive in the city to
day for funeral and burial. Mrs. Hutch
inson had been in ill health for a long
period and her husband was called to
Melrose Fridav." They resided for six
years on a farm on upper Elm street, the
place recently having wen sold to D. K.
I.illie. She leaves besides her husband,
one son, Harry, four years of age.
Mrs. C. 1. Keames returned Sunday
evening trom ipringfielii, 5 Lass., where
she made a brief visit w-ith relatives.
Survey of the land on which the State
House annex will be constructed this
summer wa-s commenced this forenoon
preparatory to tho actual work of ex
cavating for the foundation.
Dolph Jv. Hunt of East State street
has leased the Ijine building east of the
fire station and plans to occupy the en
tire ground floor, now consisting of four
tenements, the building to be used as a
storehouse for the second hand goods and
a platform will be constructed for auc
tions. The building will be painted, and
Mr. Hunt plans to occupy it about the
middle ot next month.
Mrs. William Palmer, Mrs. B. J. Allen
and little daughter, Ruth, returned Sat
urday evening from Boston, where the
Litter has been submitting to treatment
for infantile paralysis. .Mrs. Allen and
daughter returned yesterday to their
home in Waterbury.
In probate court to-day Charl! B.
Adams of Waterbury was appointed ad
ministrator of th estate of Paul Ger-
mnine. late or waterbury.
L. F. Sumner was detained from his
duties at the (entral Vermont station
to-day. his place being taken by Herschel
Cooney.
i-sne rvennau returned last evening
to Burlington, where he is employed in a
bank, after a few days' visit with rela
tive in this city.
Frederick Collins. Henry Collins. Louis
Badord, William Kelleher and Robert
Worthing returned to-day to Windsor,
where they are employed, having passed
Kaster in the citv with relative. Charles
n Wind-
El Paso, Tex., April 24. Early this
mrtrning the local policereceived reports
uiat ngnting had begun between car
ranza and American forces at Satevo
me information is said to have come
from influential sources in Juarez, and
the police believe the report to be true,
It was said that several negro soldiers
had been killed in the fighting.
At Fort Bliss nothing had been hejrd
of the reported clash, but an investiga
tion was immediately started.
Military headquarters at Columbus, X.
M had no information regarding the re
ported engagement and the story is gen
erally discredited.
Troops Ready for Anything.
The redisposition of American forces
in Mexico, as planned by Major General
Funston, has been in large measure com
pleted, it was learned to-day. The
troops "are now concentrated in strong
units along the line of communication
said to le more than 250 miles long.
Ready to meet any eventuality, the
American expedition will now maintain a
military status quo while the diplomatic
negotiations go forward at Washington.
1 lie pursuit of ilia is over, In the be
lief of (army officers at Fort Bliss. They
believe that the troops will now engage
the email wandering bands of Villa ban
dits that roam in north Chihuahua.
EASTER SPIRIT NOT
DAMPENED BY
DRIZZLING RAIN
PABLO LOPEZ CAUGHT.
A Villa Lieutenant Held Responsible for
Murder of 17 Americana.
El Paso, Tex., April 24. Pablo Lopez,
Villa lieutenant, held responsible for the
murder of 17 Americans at Santa Ysabel
and who was shot through both legs in
the raid on Oolumbus, X. M., was cap
tured Saturday by Carranza forces neor
the scene of his crime, according to in
formation received yesterday by General
1U briil Ciavira, commandant at Juarez.
This news was contained in messages
from the Mexican government operator
at Santa Ysabel, who said he had him
self seen Lopes. It was hoped informa
tion regarding Villa might be obtained
from Lopez.
Three of Lopez' followers were cap
tured with him, the four being taken in
a mountain cave where they had been in
hiding in a starving condition. All are
being taken to Chihuahua City.
Residents of Santa Tomas also notified
General Gavira yesterday that their
town was attacked yesterday morning
by Manual Baca, recently reported killed
in an engagement with American sol
diers and IS other Villa bandits. They
said they defeated and scattered the ban
dits afterkilling Baca and several oth
ers.
The news from Washington that there
was no present intention to withdraw
the troops from Mexico was received
with satisfaction by army officers here.
although they frankly admitted they
were puzzled bv the wording of Secre
tary Baker's announcement. The words
"pending an opportunity for further co
operation with the forces of the de facto
government" was particularly the sub
ject of discussion. The only co-operation
which will prove really effective in the
opinion of local officers is the use of the
railroads and they assume that Secretary
Bakers statement means a halt in the
Villa pursuit until the railroad question
is adjusted.
Barre Churches Housed Large Audiences
Yesterday in Spite of the Dreari'
ness of an April Storm
Splendid Services Held.
Easter weather was not fashioned to
the liking of folk who esteem the festi
val merely beeamfo it offers an opportu
nity for a staggeiing motley of color in
the matter of dress, but here iu Hurre
tho observance usually accorded one of
the most significant days in tno calendar
of tho Christian church measured well up
to tho real meaning of the day. Vvith
out a singlo exception the aublimo tri
umph of the resurrection morn was duly
emphasized in all of the city churches.
Appropriate musical programs, special
services and attractive Eaater decora
tions marked the less temporal observ
ance of the festival wherever people as
sembled to worship. In all instances un
commonly large congregations were in
attendance and if as has been the tendency
in recent years undue stress has been
placed on Easter day in its sartorial
aspects, it cannot be said that the true
spirit of the festival was lacking in the
churches.
!To lie sure there were those who were
ready to hang the weather man In styl-
sh elligy. If there was an abundance ot
Easter spirit among those who wended
their way to places of worship, forenoon
and evening, there was also an abund
ance of rain, rain which got a falling
start in mid-afternoon Saturday and con
tinned sternly to its spring task with
unremitting vigor. As one well known,
if rather ribald, rhymester would have
written of the day, "the thirsty earth
soaked up the rain, and drank and gaped
tor rain again. Its gaping was not in
vain, one might add. Raincoats were
worn extensively, it was to be noted,
and the proper mode of wearing them
was to have the collar tightly buttoned
about the ears.
Perhaps for ' the reason that Easter
came so late this year, people who looked
for an April sun shining in all or its
pristine glory had a right to expect
something of a concession from the
eathcr man. That failing, there fol
lowed naturally the desire to hang in
fligy. Eleven vears ago Eaater fell on
April 23 and it will not come again so
late until 1943. And 1943 is a long time
to wait for fair Easter weather. Even
longer one must wait for an April 23
Easter.
Invariably, as wag to be expected,
preachers in the pulpits of the several
city churches sought to impress upon
their hearers the significance of Easter
nd the risen Redeemer. Anywhere, at
certain hour Sunday momincr. one
ight hear Easter musfc or the message
of Easter proclaimed bv one ordained.!
At St. Monica's church, where Easter
joys in the order of worship are attend-
nt upon the sorrows associated with a
rigid observance of Lent and the tragedy
of fiood Friday, Rev. Father McKenna
officiated at two morning maeaes and
conducted services again last evening.
Thniini-'trar'ttraetrIr': decorated
and flowers of unusual beauty adorned
the altar. Knights of St. Aldemar com
mandery, Xo. 11, K. T., 60 strong, list
ened to an Easter sermon in the Church
RIFLE FOUND
NEAR CORPSE
Joseph L.i Felch of Waits;
River Shot Through tho
Temple at Sugarhouse
AUTHORITIES ARE .
INVESTIGATING
He Left Home Early Saturn
day Evening; Body
Found Sunday
Waits River. Anril 24. The body of
Joseph L. Felch, with a bullet wound
through the temple, was found in his
sugarhouse, one-half a mile from his
home, early Sunday morning bv search
ers who had gone there when he failed
to return home the night before. As the
circumstances of the death were nob
wholly clear, although a rifle was found
under his body, the county authorities
started an investigation, State's Attor
ney Frank S. Williams-of Bradford or
dering the body brought to this village
and guarded until the arrival of Dr. B.
1L Stone and Dr. C. H. Dalton of the
state laboratory in Burlington. An au
topsy was expected to-be made late to
day. Mr. Felch left hia home early Saturday
evening, announcing that he was eoimr
to the sugarhouse to boil sap, the sugar-
uuuse oemg located west ot his home.
As he did not return during the night,
Mrs. Felch, her daughter. Bernice. and
Miss Josie Hero, who was employed in.
the house, went out in search. Their
search was soon rewarded with the dis
covery of the body, lying face downward,
on the floor of the sugarhouse and besida
the pan where he had been boiling sap.
Help was summoned and the county au- '
thorites were notified.
State's Attorney , Williams srave per
mission for the removal of the body to
this village. When the body was lifted
rifle was found. The nature of the.
wound wag such as to indicate that death
was instantaneous. Although it is said
there was no ground for believing that
anyone had murderous intentions against)
Felch, there was still some doubt about
its being a case of suicide.
Felch was 32 years of aire and had re
sided in Waits River all his life, having
been a native of the place. He leaves
his wife and one daughter, Bernice.
OLD RESIDENT OF CABOT.
N. G.
Rogers Was Born in East Part ol
the Town.
Cabot, April 24. The funeral of Ka
poleon G. Rogers, a highly respected res
ident of this town, whose death m.
of the Good Shepherd, where the rector, curred Saturday, was held at the house
Rev. , J. M. Beattie, officiated at two this ftrnnnn t. l .in .-.vib w
ALWAYS LIVED IN MONTPELIER.
Charles W. Guernsey Was Employed by
Lane Co. SI Years.
morning services and again in the even
ing. Alive Forevermore, was the topic
of the sermon preached in the f ongreira-
tional church by Rev. J. W. Bamett. A
reception of members followed and at
vespers in the-aftemoon, a quartet ren
dered the Easter cantata, "Alleluia. Hail
with Gladness." At the Hedding Meth
odist church, Rev. B. .1. Lipskv observed
his first Easter in Barre with a fitting
homily on the significance of the dav.
An Easter concert, to which a number of
the children contributed, was especirlly
enjoyed.
J lie Resurrection of the Pody" was
the Easter topic chosen bv Rev. Edgar
Crossland at the First Presbvterian
church. An Easter cantata, "Voices from
the Garden," by the children of the inter
mediate grades, and a concert by the pri
mary department of the Sunday school
featured the evening service. At the
Universalist church Rev. J. B. Reardon
preached on "The Easter Secret" at the
forenoon service and special music was
rendered by the quartet. Rev. Bert J.
Ijehigh, recently installed as pastor of
the First Baptist church, spoke on "The
Resurrection of Jesus." Instead of the
customary evening service, members of
the Bible class gave an Easter concert in
the evenine. Children of the Swedish
Baptist mission in the Foresters' hall
were represented In an Easter program!
and at the Italian Baptist mission on!
Brook street there were Easter services
in the afternoon
W. Hale, pastor of the Comrreeation;;!
church, officiating. Members of Creeu
Mountain F. & A. M., of which the de
ceased was a charter member, attended
the service and there was a large gath
ering of townspeople. Burial was made
in the village cemetery.
Mr. Rogers' death removes one of the
older residents of the village. He was
born in East Cabot S3 years ago and is
survived by two sons. B. B. Ropers, a
Cabot merchant, and D. Hi Rogers, who)
lives in Connecticut. His sister, Mi.ss
Sarah Rogers, lives here and his grand
son, i.arl Kogers, is engaged in the gro
cery business here. Mrs. Rogers died
in 1909. The deceased held the office of
town constable for several years and
was widely known in this section as a,
cattle buyer. When the Masonic lodge
was organized here in 18fi5, he was one of
the charter members. Only one other
member who was on the original roll of
the lodgo survives.
SHOULDER BROKEN IN SPILL.
Edward
MILES CASHEN.
den, v .. ami the n-w manager
crate thera fmm May 1.
' ill op-
GRANITEVILLE.
Krpulsr fne-tirtg of branch No. 12. Q.
W. I. V. rf X. will 1 held in MdV
hall on Winerlav eveninp, April 2". at
7 :.W YJ'.wk. Nomination of I. I'. rre-'ry-tretirrr.
Ail TremlT! are reqtic-t-ed
to attend. It is n--ry that
err meinbr should vol n this quei
t ' n. Per order of eecrr tarr.
Montpelit-r.
Henry lird, who has been making a
weok's visit in the city with his parent,
returned thn morning to Boston, hf-re
he is a student at
M'hool.
Ashton fheever of Woodtock ha ar
rived in Mrtplier to be employed by
the Ijtn Maniifa.-turing enipnv.
.lul n W. t.rt twll. a I n il mr ud'rui.
hit bi btffi l-vinc in I'lainTiel-l for the
(-t f-w veals, ha returned to Montpe
lier, bis f"rmer h-tne, to reside.
After being ill for years and being con
fined to the house for 14 months, Charles
W. Guernsey, a lifelong resilient of
Montpelier. died at his home, 35 Loorois
street in that city, shortly after 5 o'clock
this mornfng, the cause of death being
heart disease and complications. He was
a veteran employe of the Lane Manufac
turing company, having been employed
by that concern for 51 years until forced
by ill health to give up. I hiring the
last few years of his employment there
he had a place near the office.
Charles Warren Guernsey was Imuti n
Muntpelier IVoemher ", 1?45, Ix-ing one
of five children of Mr. and Mrs. Madian
Guernsey. He was a member of the Odd
Fellows' ordor for 40 years and hail held
many offices in the Montpelier lodge, be
ides bring elected to grand lodire posi
tions. He leaves his wife, who was
Flora M. Jackson, two niwes. Mr. Ju-1
Barre Man and Montpelier Woman Mar
ried at St. Augustine's.
A pretty church wedding occurred at
8 o'clock this morning at M. Augustine's
chiiai'h, Montpelier, Miss Mildred Sarah
Cashen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Cashen of North Franklin street, Mont
pelier, being married to Howard M. Miles
of BurlinL'ton. son of D. M. Miles of
Burre, the rector. Rev. P. J. Ixng, offi
ciating at the nuptial mass. They were
attended by Miss Annie E. Cashen. a
sister of the bride, and Roswell Miles of
Graniteville, a cousin of the groom.!
Wagner's bridal chorus from Ixihengrin j
was played by Miss Claire Lynch, andl
the church choir, of which the bride was
ConnelTs Automobile Turned
Turtle on Slippery Bank.
Lyndonville, April 24. Edward Oon
nell, clerk of State Fish and Game Com
missioner J. W. Titcomb, suffered a
broken shoulder and many bruises when
his automobile turned turtle on the West
Burke road, about a mile and a half
north of the village Saturday night.
Connell T. Eggleston of Rutland and
Homer Counter were in the car when,
they met a horse and wagon on a sharp
curve. In attempting to pass the team
the automobile went over a steep em
bankment and all three men were pinned
under it.
Eggleston escaped injury hut Counter
was somewhat cut and bruised. One of
the two young women who were in tho
wagon went for help while the other at.
tempted to lift the car off the men, a
feat which she was unable to perform
until he!p had arrived. Mr. Connell was
taken to his home at Lyndon Center. His
injuries are not conidered dangerous.
FUNERAL OF W. H. JONES
a memlK-r, sang, ana solos were sung .
luring the mass by Misses Atrnes and Attended By Many Relatives and Friend J
Gertrude Fountain and David Burns, i
Miss Emma Heney sang "Ave Maria."
The ushers were Arthur C Theriault and
Francis Kelleher.
The bride was attired in a gray taffi t.i
suit with a hat to match and carried
(range blossoms, a pi ft from Mrs. Bert
C- . 5 .
Tim funeral of Wiliiatn II. Jones,
whose death at hit home. Id Central
r-treet, Tuesday evening followed a lon;
period of failing health, was held at th
house Saturday afternoon at - o'clock.
Cashen of Tampa. Ha. The bri.lesmai 1 i Kev. W. .1. M. Beattie, rector of tha
wote a tan suit witii nat to match ant
carried roses. Immediately after the
wedding ceremony a weddinir brfiakfaet
was served at the home of the bride's
parents.
The bride i a graduate of Montpel
ier hieh sehool in the class of 1912 and
for the pat three years has been em
ployed in the ofli.-c of the Vermont Mu
tual Fire Insurance company. Mr. Mi!e.
Church of the (iood Shepherd, officiating.
Among the who gathered at the hoiiMi
to jsy tribute to the memory of Mr.
Jones were many of his associates in
the Barre Social i.t local, members of
the Montpelier Military band and the
Mtxlcrn Woodmen of America. Granite
Citv catrp. T'-e bearers were: M..r
Robert Hrdin and cretry F. W. Suit
or, of the quarry workers' international
a.uation, reprcent in? the Socialist
A. u.. j tv. tire Batchelder of Womisville. N. H.. an ! i a graduate i paui.-ling tori ii.Ni
I Mrs. Charles P"rtr of New buryport, ! Barre and of D.irt mouth college in the purty, (My Clerk T. R. Merrill of Mom-
Ma., and one nephew, E. Paul Guern- class ot lVlj. is treasurer of the Bur- p I:er an1 A. . r-tmn. ff the hn l,
prx of Stamford. Conn. Mr. Guern-ey 1 nrton Grocery cm;sny of r.urlingttn. and Mr. M-dJonsld and A. J. Loranfer of
the lat mcmler of his ffir.ilv. Mr. an I Mrs. Mil. left on the noooithe Wttodmcn. A brass quartet from th
train f-r New Vok City and Wahir ' M. r.tjicl.cr 1 in 1 j la ei selections (jurirg
C on a we,l!l!tg trip of everlithe -riee. Tiiere were rum- floral
The funeral will be hell We.lrelv
fiemoon. Kev. F. P-nmhr h re t T ' t on . H.
of t brit church, officiating, an J the i.ij 1 week, end wi"l rei.;c on Km? treet.
Fellow service being used. Purhrit- n, 1 ir at home after June 1.
Iri
t.'ite. li.terin. nt wit made m lb
cemetery.
ps
