r
r
i
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Jcimrnt
NIGHT
EXTRA
froii. ii.-:n"o. 203
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY; MAY 8, 1916.
ConxionT, 1010, st Tilt PcsMo Lzcota Cownnr.
PRICE ONE CENT
meagre
O.S. TROOPS, WITH CIVILIANS,
HUNCH NEW MEXICAN DASH
TO AVENGE ATTACK IN TEXAS
kt Leat Three American Soldiers Kill
ed, 'Boy Brutally Murdered 'and
Two Kidnapped by Bandits,
Supposedly Carranzistas
WEW RAID DELIBERATE SCHEME
TO BALK PEACE, AGUILAR CHARGES
MEXICO CITY, May 8. In an official statement, issued here today,
Minister of Foreign Relations Aguilnr declares that the bandits that
'raided Ulen apriiis uuu uuiiuuiud, im,, raai'r uuuj uiKiiir wuu uiuiuiii
in the United States and that the raid was "staged" by enemies of both
countries.
The statement follows:
While the international difficulties arising out of the Colum
bus incident were about to bo satisfactorily arranged by the ex
peditionary forces of our neighboring republic abandoning our
' notional territory, the only point remaining undetermined being
the exact date of their departure, a band of bandits, organized in
the United States by Mexican traitors, entered our country.
They then pretended to proceed from Mexico, again crossing the
frontier and, shouting "Viva Villa" and "Viva Carranza," at
tacked the garrison of a small American town namcd'Big Bend,
committing all kinds of depredations.
? This new outrage was committed by enemies of both countries
and was lnunched with the criminal purpose of interrupting tho
favorable courso of negotiations above referred to and to pro
voke definitely a war which the Mexican Government is trying to
avoid without loss of nationnl honor and dignity. AGUILAR.
Copies of the above statement were given tho newspapers hero and
posted in conspicuous places about the capital. They were surrounded
by crowds. The people generally received tho news calmly.
American troops, a new punitive expedition into Mexico, today are
pursuing outlaws, who, Friday night, raided three Texas towns in tho Big
' Bend section, killing three United States soldiers, a deaf and dumb boy and
I4 tarrying off two civilians. .
Forces are ueing rusneu irom rori, diiss aim rort uurK to De com-
gmanded by Colonel Frederick Sibley, now at t ort Ulark.
B" A1rr1v nnrnrrpfl Texans arc in nursuit and. according tn Intp rnnnrts.
iihava inflicted severe casualties among tho marauders. It is said 17 were
psKlled and many wounded.
uf. . It is reliably reported that the outlaws were Carranzistas. They came
from the State oi iioanuua, wneru vanauza jicciures ne maintains UDSOiuie
l,wntrol. f
jflll,
Y-ill'Jlfy' 'i
L imK'V8 ,y! 1.1
F VSmamb k
i BlSB I
1 lillflll$
''-"-i---
U.S. TO ACCEPT
CONCESSION OF
KAISER TODAY
President's Reply Probably
dn Way, Covers Only New
U-Boat Orders
REJECTS OTHER POINTS
Made Plain Policy is Not Con
ditioned on Attitude Toward
Great Britain
Photo by Underwood 6 Underwood.
GEN. HENRI P. PETAIN
Defender of Verdun, whose pro
motion to the command of tho
armies on tho Aisne, between
Soissons and Verdun, is believed
to foreshadow an early offensive
drive by the Allies.
SOLDIERS AND CIVILIANS
' CHASE BANDITS TO BORDER
XL.'fcASO, Tex, May 8. American
bwpj today rushed through tho desolate
KnlcSes of the Bis Bend country In pur-
gt Mexican bandits,, who Wiled three
BtRCan soiaiers ana a iv-year-oia Day
il captured two American oltlzens after
five-hour battle against a little detach-
nt at Glen Springs, Te.-c.
.th nit Bend country was In a white
ieat of race and throuchout the district
'attleraen and other 'residents were rally
ing to the cry for vengeanco.
An entire battalion ordered out by Gen
'rl Funston, following delayed reports of
Mit 'fight. nrlU sweep southward oyer the
deaertVtowanrHha border.
These troons are from Fort Bliss, El
Pmo, F)rt Clark, Brackott, Tex., south of
Bin Antonio; Presidio and Alpine.
Fltteen cavalrymen aasnea out or
bine at the first news of the raid, to
ths aid of another small detaohment of
sine hen which had arrived from a near
ly desert'post to aid tho stricken Amer
ican settlement.
; A poeso of Texans, however, wag the
Urst to make up at Itfarathon. and rode
iwlftly to Glen Springs. There they found
the Mexicans had cono on to Bonullln?.
They followed and arrived at Boqulllna In
toe to relieve seven employes of the In
tirnatlonal Mines Company, whohad bar
ricaded themselves and were making a
tand against the raiders.
.Fleeing before the Texans, the Mexicans
crossed the border Into the ..State of
foahulla, with the posse close on their
Iheels.
BThen'ew punitive column Is composed of
two troops of the Hth Cavalry, from Fort
.Clark, Tox., to troops of the 8th Cavalry,
Jron Fort Bliss, a machine gun section
Continued on I'aso I'our, Column Two
THE WEATHER
ft Wd you ever walk throuch the mist of
I tumraer night (such as last night),
jM.ffl,ll crescent moon became pallid
iM th stars wan and the white lights
1 VL inn CntlntrvalriA ihat ahnna 1irM.rh
bJlsa fell were of silver and the vellow
j?M of the palest gold? Ualos and
iwronis and curious spectra dotted the
ijttcy wall and tho aluminum rlbhtms of
iaiHgnts cyt through, Jt. Trees and
LiMM stood like dim ghosts and swayed
KyfWMMo shapes as the low-hanglng
iwst swished and eddied In the wind.
iuratejW figures swept into being and
KrJX: way and we"9 lwt. It was a sight
yptttt seeing.
RJ'ies, the walk would hava done you
two If you are not Vjirv."1
-.WEATHER FORECAST FOR
PENNSYLVANIA
WTJiaV 5!X,?'ffOvery 'a BoUi; Phyte. by
tSnL 1109UB ana v p- cArothers.
k. th -w -, 4i ween, wm ovon
itlear ohi k.. .-,. .....
Wmlitamtin .. mi ...
Irioo oj Tuesday.
Vh-Ce i v' y 1S' and Wednesday, May
iita, iz?:zr" . r "'
Tttmfi,.. "yi"u avmewnai cooler tem-
sVvSZtZ'v J? ond Fav. fv B
Wtt3ZJ$n!Lnlv e"", co"""" Friday.
! trap cool movement.
GQVERNKfK'Ni' pnnptj om
Worth, P,kiud'lphte and vicinity-
KPV f" tonight and TuesJav.
ISSdEri,f2S! 2"' cl.r
that, """ wiua, moaiiy
WILSON WILL ACT
WHEN BOTH SIDES
, ASKFORPMCE
White House Will Not Heed
Veiled Suggestion in
German Note
TIME NOW INOPPORTUNE
WASHINGTON. May 8.
President Wilson will make no move In
the direction of European peace at this
time. The veiled suggestion that tho
time for such a move might be opportune,
conveyed In tho German note,, will not
be heoded by the White House.
It was learned on highest authority
today that, acting on the advice of the
Embassies at London "and Paris, the Ad
ministration will makd no move In the
direction of peace proposals until the
promised grand offensive of the Allies
shall have been made.
It wnB learned today that the state
ment of Carl W. Ackorman. tho United
Press correspondent In Berlin, that cer
tain officials of the German capital be
lieved the time opportune for another
European trip by Colonel E. M. House,
occasioned no surprise at the White
House'. It Is no longer a secret that Ger
many Is anxious to get under way the
preliminary steps to peace negotiations.
Reports from the American Embassies at
London and Paris indicate, however, that
any peace move on the part of President
Wilson at this time would be futile.
President Wilson has no Intention of
taking steps toward peace when his ad
vances might be rebuffed, Proposals
FRENCH RETAKE
GROUND LOST ON
VERDUN FRONT
Recapture Trenches on Hill
304 and Lines East
of Meuse
GERMANS RESUME DRIVE
JtOST ASp POUND
IS'?tCA'rET.. ....- .. ..J" .'
ffii?JSaL 85i 2n"x&: -ft.
aSi-fif' PoUtn- tnUVtoclcTa-nS
1 " Aiaerica. 3QI Cbetnut t, PhluT
E41?0 gTUBK or tnionnUon Uad-
ITiM PV,n f Dodge toorln i4r, No,
WB aj'ttt Iti taftt ily l Xiob Broad
Hr.i UPSUN MS Walnat t?
& 4JU m.u msi m
Continued on rose Four, Column One
PAIIS, May 8.
Fighting of the utmost violence was
In progress all night on the Verdun front.
Following further attacks by Germans,
the French lnunched furious counter-assaults
on both sides of the Meuse, the
War Office announced today In an official
communique.
To the west of the Meuse the Crown
Prince again hurled his legions against
the French positions on Hill 304, but the
Germans were thrown back after suffer
ing heavy losses.
French counter-attacks were then de
livered against the trenches on the east
slopo of Hill 304, which the Germans had
captijred on Sunday. After bloody hand-to-hand
fighting the Germans were ejected
from the communicating trenches, which
they had taken from the French 12 hours
earlier.
To the east of tho Meuse the French
counter attacked south of the forest of
Hnudromont, driving the Germans from
the 500 yards of trenches they had cap
tured on Sunday. .
French mllltury critics declared today
that the German attack yesterday Is the
WASHINGTON, May 8.
President Wilson will nccept tho Ger
man reply to his submarine nolo late to
day. It was authoritatively stated that the
reply of tho Presldont will accept tho
German orders to submarino commanders
as meeting the demands contained tn his
i ultimatum of Apiil 18. It also will re-
I sono the right to deal with developments
as they take place, nnd the right to deal
with the Entonte Allies ns this Govern
ment sees fit.
It was stated tl.at the note wns com
pleted nt a conference late last night
between tho President nnd Secretary
Lansing, It Is tho present Intention of
I tne liovornment to make the note punuc
immediately, wnue omemm uccuneu to
discuss tho text In advance of Its being
mado public, It was explained that the
President Is convinced that tho German
orders to submarine commanders meet
j tho situation ns he has outlined It. If
these orders are scrupulously obeyed, of-
ftctals say, there can be no cause for
. complaint In tho future, and It wns the
I fu'ure with which the President was
1 chiefly concerned.
i This note already may be on Its way
to Berlin. Tho President and Lansing
conferred last night on its contents, and
the fact that publication is being held
up until this afternoon Is belloed due
to the desire to give tlmo for tho note to
reach Berlin.
Tho note, which Is said to be formal
acknowledgment of the receipt of the
German reply, will Indicate plainly. It Is
declared, that this Government, In ac
cepting the new pledges by Germany, con
siders herself In no way bound to certain
conditions laid down In the Geimau note.
The President's acknowledgment. It Is
said, will eliminate possibility of a break
with Germany over anything that has
happoned In the past. Futuro relations,
howover. It will bo mado plain, will depend
wholly on Germany and her strict adher
ence to the now orders sjie has Issued
submarine commanders.
Earlier reports today forecast that Ger
many would bo told this Government ac
cepted her promises at their face value
and expected that they would be carried
IfTrrtutoclitnhl"ri,?slaFnt,'o'
llevea that there wlirbe-llor further attacks
on merchant vessels without warning,
with the sanction of the" German Govern
ment. He la 'expected in the reply to
make It plain that the action of the Ger
man Government Is In no way considered
as conditional on action by Great Britain.
The very fact that German sources here
already have pointed out that Germany
did not consider that ho had made any
condition, but rather had Indicated that
her position was ono of expectancy that
this Government could get concessions
from England has tended to relieve the sit
uation. Officialdom considers that the German
crisis has passed for tho present, and it
Is expected that the President Immediately
will take up with Secretary Lansing the
numerous matters In conflict with Great
TAYLOR CALLS
VOTERS TO AID
TRANSIT FIGHT
Former Director Tells
Workingmen Loan Pass
age Will Benefit
MAYOR SURE OF VICTORY
Smith Confers With Ward
Leaders Declares Confidence.
Some McNichol Men Friendly
Taylov Tells Why Workmen
Should Vote for Transit
Ex-Transit Director Taylor calls
upon workintrmen of Philadelphia
to stand by their own best interests
and support the transit loan on
May 1G,
Construction nnd maintenance
of transit system planned will
mean employment for thousands
of men, Mr. Taylor shows.
Completion of lines will1 mean
comfortable nnd convenient trans
portation for workinpmen.
Passage of loan and working out
of complete Taylor program will
mean Abolition of discriminatory
8-ccnt exchange tickets and sub
stitution of universal 5-ccnt fares.
It will not mean tax raise; there
fore, no increase in rent.
Mayor Smith announces, after
conference with ward leaders, in
cluding several McNichol followers,
that loans will carry by large ma
jority. Defeat of loan, Mr. Taylor
warns, will prevent completion of
Frankford "L" for indefinite period
and will wreck entire Taylor plan.
EXTRA
WHITE STAR LINER CYMRIC
SINKING, SAYS LLOYD REPORT
'IONDON.TVMv CTh" White Sfar liner Cymric is reported sfa'-i:-i:,
. ,.:uitl.ii4 to u tUdpntrb lo Wn;"I thin MUrnccu. i'Uc Oyuv'lu
uurUd ns lraGSMrtigcitt.
4 ; ' S"
Former Transit Director A. Merrltt Tay
lor today issued a stirring appeal to the
workingmen of Philadelphia to support
and voto for tho transit and port loan bill
at the polls on May 16. He detailed the
specific benefits, both In time -nnd money.
Which the workingmen will realize through
the passage of the loan bill and the con
sequent construction of the comprehensive
high-speed transit system.
At the same time Mnyor Smltt( an
nounced that after conferences with ward
leaders from all sections of the city,
among them a number of MoNlchol lead-sho-ttttTt,pri4y-to..prephesy-ho
passage'
of both the transit and port nnd the gen
eral loan bills by largo majorities. Offers
of aid In the campaign for the loan bills,
tho Mayor said, are pouring In from
every side. ,
The nppeal from ex-Director Taylor
follows :
TATLOR'S AUVICE.
"I want every worklngman In Phila
delphia to realize what he can get for
himself and for the members of his fam
ily by votlnn for the transit loan. Hero
are the adrantages which you will get:
"First. You and tho members of your
family will be able to accept employment
In any section of Philadelphia and travel
from your established homo to those
places of employment regardless of dis
tance or number of times which you have
to change cars, quickly, comfortably and
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
rifht incr, 2-yoar-olds, aellin?. 4 t-2 furlongs Mmcc T.. 10?,
Schuttlngcr, $4.10, $3.00, $3.00, won; Chehcrt, 101, Kummcr, $10,00,
$8 10, second; Highway, 100, McAtce,, $11.30, third. Time, :B7.
Bcndlct, Car of Phoenix, Good Gracious, Gintitudc, Light Shoes, Blue
Ballot, Sally Boots and Abe Mai tin nlso ran. ,
TWO MORE INFANTRY COMPANIES ORDERED TO BORDER
WASHINGTON,' May 8. Secretary uf 'ynf Baker this aftcruooii
announced that nt General Fuuston's request two companies of tuc
10th infantry, stationed at Port Sill, Oklnhoma, had been orderod to
proceed immediately to Toit Clark, Tex., to Ulse the place of dctucA
uicutu of the 14th Cavalry tent to Clmi Springs.
SUPREME COURT SENDS SPY TO ENGLAND FOR TRIAL
WASHINGTON, May 8. Upon motion of the Attorney General, jthe Supremo
Court of the United States today Issued a mandate in the case of Ignatius Lin
coln, 6olf-described German spy, for Lincoln's extradition to "England to etand
trial on a charge of forgery.
RAILROADS' COMMITTEE ON DEMANDS MEETS
NEW YORK, May 8. A committee of 17, representing- railroads affected by
tho demands of the trainmen for an eight-hour day and wage increases, met hero
today in executive session to perfect organization. A chairman, secretary, and
all of tho subcommittees will be named. No further indication' of the work in
hand was made public. t
PAPAL DECREE SEALS DE CASTELLANE MARRIAGE
ROME. May 8. The final decision declaring valid the marriage of Anna
Gould and Count de Castellane was handed down today by the Papal Tribunal
composed of Cardinals Do Lai, BIsletl nnd Van Rossum,
Continued on Face Four, Column FIto I
EUGENE E. REED NAMED FOR PHILIPPINE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, May 8. President Wilson today sent to the Senate tho
nomination of Eugene E. Reed, of New Hampshire, to be a member of tho
1'lilllpplno Commlbslon.
Continued oil 1'uge Six, Column One
ACTION ON BRANDEIS
AGAIN POSTPONED BY
JOSEPH R. GRUNDY
TO FACE GRAND JURY
Contlnurd on Pogo Sit, Column Two
-fr
SALUS' FOES APPEAL (
HIS VOTING VICTORY
Possibility of Confirmation De
layed Indefinitely When
Two Senators Offer
Objections
WILSON LAUDS NOMINEE
Cheater Hill and Richard Cam
pion, of Pennsylvania Pro
tective Union, Also Up
PITTSBURGH, May 8. Joseph R
Grundy, of Bristol, director, and two other
officers of the Pennsylvania Protective
Union stood ready to be called when the
Federal Grand Jury, reconcenlng at 1
o'clock today, extended the probe of the
brewery contributions to political cam
paigns to other corporations.
The two other active figures n the
Protective Union, both Phtladelphlans,
and here on subpoenat are Chester Hill,
former Collector of the Port at Philadel
phia, secretary of the union, and Richard
Camplbn, treasurer.
The .Protectiye Union, organUed in the
interest of the protective tariff, the Qoy
ernnfent "Will afrempi io n t-1 if uU itd
money from corporations ant spent It In
the State campaign two years ago, in
violation of the Federal corrupt pfactlces
act prohibiting contributions by corpora
tlona to Federal elections.
United States Attorney E. Lowry
Humes, when the qrand Jury went into
session, said he did pot know whether the
Protective Union officials would be
reached before the Qrand Jury adjourned
tonight He had a number of revlJTy
probe witnesses to esamlne, including
Joseph DeBar, of Cincinnati, secretary of
the National Wholesale Liquor Dealers
Association, and Joseph A Kellor. of In
dianapolis, flrw vice president of n
tional Qerman-American Alliance.
Takes Oath as. paker AW
WASBINQTON. May I William L,
lasraliaw. formes Mayo? of PwtUndMe ,
twlsF took tiw cth of ?cs 4ia Assistant
gcrtary oi Wr.
Penrose-McNichol Men Test
4th Ward Residence Validity.
Case Up Thursday
An appeal was tiled today against the
decislqn of the- Board of Registration
Commissioners, which granted State
Senator Samuel W. Salus, a Vare lieu
tenant, the r'ght to vote In the 4th Ward,
by Isadore Stern, counsel for the Penrose
McN'Ichol faction
Tie appeal will be heard before Judges
Barratt, Wessel and Itogers In Common
Pleas Court No, 2 on Thursday morning.
It was also learned today that the de
cision of the Board of Registration in
regard to the Salus case was not unani
mous, t
Clinton Rogers Woodruff, president of
the board, voted against the other Com
missioners, and in y lewof tbp raw;i.
will write a dissenting opinion.
it Is contended by Mr. Stern that the
house at 614 South 11th street, 15th divi
sion of the 4th Ward, from which Salus
la registered is not his home and that he
lives in Lincoln Drive, Germantown. It
is asserted that Salus uses the other ad
dress for political purposes.
Salus is endeavoring to wret control of
the 4th Ward from e-Clty Commissioner
Moore, a MoNlchol man.
r, ' ' ''
Railroads Ending Plea in Trenton
TRENTON. May 8. Final argument on
the renewed application of the West Jer
sey and Seaxhpre Railroad, the Pennsyl
vania line, and the Atlantic City Railroad.
the Reading branch, to Increase passenger
Tfttss. uj being presented today before the
Board M fuouo i'wmy tjommjMiouers.
Tb South Jrfy dojmmuter' Associa
tion bav new agnung msm is airmnea
(vmJ months.
WASHINGTON. May 8. Just as the
Senate Judiciary Committee, urged to ac
tion by a letter from President Wilson,
prepared to battle on the confirmation of
Louis D. Brandels as Justice of the Su
preme Court, two Senators objected. As
a result action, which seemed near again,
was Indefinitely postponed. Who the Sen
ators were, members of the committee
would not say.
The President's letter of last week, In
which he urged quick action on Brandels,
waa received with a spirit of resentment
by the committee. The President wrote
the letter In reply to a note from Senator
"Culberson asking for a statement of the
"reasons which actuated the President In
making the nomination." The President's
letter follows;
"Hon. Charles A. Culberson,
"United States Senate:
'"My dear Senator I am very much
obliged to you for giving me an oppor
tunity to make clear to the Judiciary
Committee my reasons for nominating
Mr. Louis D, Brandels to fill the vacancy
in the Supreme Court of the United
States, created by the death of Mr. Jus
tice Lamar, for I am, profoundly In
terested (p the confirmation of the ap
pointment by the Senate.
"There Is probably no more Important
duty Imposed upon the President In con
nection with the general administration
of the Government than that of .naming
members of the Supreme Court; and I
NEGROES, IN METHODIST
CONFERENCE, NEAR RIOT
CALLING ON 'OUR TEDDY'
A. M. E. Meeting Here Invites
Roosevelt to Speak, After
Stormy Yells for and
Against His Policies
'CAN'T DO WITHOUT HIM'
HARKNESS, OIL MAGNATE, REMEMBERED CHARITIES -
NBW YORK, May 8. The will of Charles F. Harkneas, Standard Oil mag
nate, who died May 1, filed today, gives $100,000 to the endowment fund of the
Presbyterian Hospital, $250,000 to tho Hnrkness fund of the hospital, $500,000
to Yale nnd $25,000 to the Lend-A-Hand Mission In Cleveland. Harknesa Stand
ard OH holdings arc bequeathed to Edward Harkness, a brother, presonal prop
erty and real estate go to the widow and the residue of the estate ia divided be
tween the two, who are made executors,
Varied Views of "T. R."
Held by Negro Churchmen
pmiUnntd on Pae Seyentsen, Cohmm Timi
U-B0ATS" OFF AZORES NOW
THOUGHT ALUES' LAUNCHES
NEW YORK, May 8.
The supposed "German raiders" includ
ing U-boats, which the Fabre liner
Venezla outran off the Azores, were prob
ably British or French cruisers at target
practice. i
CJptatn Gaunt, British naval attache,
talked with Captain 'Boniface, of the
Venezla, today, and the latter expressed
his conviction that the ships were allied
war vessels probably at target practice,
the target8 and launch towing them
being mistaken by the Venezla 'a crew for
submarines.
Tola semiofficial Uitement seemingly
disposes of a sensational story published
thl tnominr and which, &r time,
nnated talk ot a. freiJi submariner crisis
ba. WMhftn.
He ia the colored man's friend.
He is the colored man's worst
enemy.
He is a bigger man than Lin
coln. He is a traitor and a political
blackguard.
He made the colored man wel
come in the White House,
He is as sly as a possum,,
He beams on the colored man.
He slammed the door in the
face of the colored delegates at
Chicago,
His heart is oozing with honey
for the colored man.
He is as fickle as a nodding cot
ton blossom.
A black skin never fills him with
prejudice.
He says "bully" to the colored
man, but he does not love the man
with the black skin.
--
SMELTING COMPANY INCREASES PAY; NO ULTIMATUM
NEW YORK, May 8. An ofllclal of the American Smelting and Reflnlnr
Company says that no ultimatum has been delivered to the company by tho
employes at its refinery in Perth Amboy. He adds that the company has granted
another voluntary increase of approximately 10 per cent, in the wages of refinery
.employes' and all of them are at their posts and working aa usual. A, 10 per cent
increase in pay also has been given voluntarily by the Rarltan Copper Works to
its employes at Perth Amboy.
MARCONI SAYS AEROS NOW GET RADIO SIGNALS
LONDON, May 8. GugUelmo Marconi has Just arrived in London from Italy
with news of Important and far-reaching wireless developments. "The new
developments make it difficult for tho enemy to intercept or tap messages,',' ha
said. "The improvements also apply to instruments on aeroplanes and airships.
Hitherto aeroplanes have been at a disadvantage, because while able to transmit
messages they have been unable to receive owing to the noise of the engine
drowning out jhe wireless signals. Now we are able to strengthen the receiving
signals sufficiently to enable messages to be taken." '
The Introduction of a resolution asking
that Roosevelt be Invited to deliver an
address In Convention Hall, this city, al
most starteo a riot among zooo negroes
assembled today at the quadrennial .cbn-l BRITISH EXPEDITION TO SEEK SHACKELFORD PARTY
lerSKgg'or'tnir African Hetrfodlst Churcr.T 'm"' " , , , " .' "-" "- "
in Bethel' A. M. B. Church, 6th street be- LONDON, May 8. The British Government has decided to organize forth-
low Pine.
The resolution was Introduced by the
Rev. P. G. Robinson, of Little Rock, Ark.
The clergyman had hardly finished read
ing the resolution when nearly everybody
in the church was on his feet
"Hurrah for Roosevelt," "Gle us our
Teddy bear.' "Put Teddy in the presiden
tial chair." "Oown with Roosevelt." "w
don't want that man Teddy' were some
ot tne cries wnicn came rrom all sections
of the auditorium. The conference began
to break up Into little factional disputes
in all parts of the church. Admirers ana
opponents of Roosevelt shook their fists
at each pther, and personalities flew thick
and fast
The Rr. W H. Nixon, of Selma, Ala .
led the light of the Roosevelt forces.
"Tbioddft Roosevelt," hs shouted abov
PARIS RENTS WINDOW FOR TRIUMPHAL ENTRY
PARIS, May 8. The famous French academician, Rene Bazin, In an article
in the Echo de Paris on the splendid spirit beng showrt 'jy the French nation,
says all the windows In the Champs Elysees already luiye been rented at a high
price to view the triumphal entry into Paris of the victorious French troops
after the war,
PRICE OF COAL MAY BE ADVANCED TODAY
Philadelphia coal dealers today expect the anthracite operators to announce
an increase in the price of coal. In case the increase is made WgMdealera will
boost the retail prices to cover the added cost of coal to them, p operators
will base the Increased prices upon the additional cost of thev' eight-hour day
and the wage increase recently granted the miners. It is expected that "tho
added cost per ton to the dealers will be at least 40 cents.
with a relief expedition to send into the Antarctic 'to succor Lieutenant Sir
Ernest Shackleton and his fellow explorers, Jt was announced today.
SHIP CAPTAIN SAW THREE NORSE VESSELS BURNING
LONDON, May 8, The captain of (he Swedish steamship Blenda, which haa
arrived at Holmstad, reports that he met, near Hanstholm, three Norwegian
schooners burning, says the correspondent of the Exchange Telegraph Com
pany at Cophenhagen.- The captain, the correspondent adds, observed a Zeppe
lin and three German armored trawlers in the vicinity.
LORD NORTHCLIFFE SAYS KAISER MUST PAY
JTOW YORK, May 8.-r-Lrd, Noxthcliite, n reply to the World's query oa the
possibility of an early peace, has n this reply s "Germany calf have t oaes
the peace she U so obviously anxious for by getting out of Belgium, France,
gtrbk, Poland and Russia, paying fuU indemnities to taos$ cawgttai s4 raaiiM
PEBtfaaed ea tut t d catcea, Cal'jjaa sm. reparation tor toe eutre .of fcsr mrtyarjaea,
- i
,
