"Mr. Jiggs"
The Irrcprcssiblc Jiggs, Has His
7 roubles This Morning t
iUtfimonik Qriuics-Sisinatdi
Fox's Comics
In The Timcs-Dispatch, Amuse
Young and Old Every Day
66th YEAR
VOLUMF CO
m;.m 111:11 1 as
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, MAY 8, 1916. ?TEN PAGES.
? FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
MEXICAN BANDITS RAID AMERICAN TOWNS;
KILL FOUR U. S. CITIZENS AND KIDNAP TWO
I ronch Lose Further Ground
on Both Sides of
Meuse.
VERDUN DRIVE CONTINUES
Crown Prince's Forces Gain
Footing in Trenches of
Defenders.
What Hr-ornlntrly !?; a new great of
with |ik ..bjectlve tl?*- capture
of \ Tdun, has !????? ti launched by the
1 <"> matm northeast stti<1 northwcM t?r
f"rtrP5H In both sectors pains
f"r the Germans are chronicled m the
I 1 " '* h o/lh liil i,'iintinirili,;tiioii.
In the former net-tor between
, I f'i udremont wood and I miiauinont,
I'rench firet-line tranche.-* over nearly
? ' third of jt ml!" -vvi>ro cnU-rf-fi by the
Germans. while northwest of Verdun,
to 'he east of hMl 3M. they penetrated
underground parsapew,-iys >f the
I"i' tub
Kif-opt tit-.!hill h<i.vt-v??r, the*
ertirn atack, which was thrown agi.inst
the sector between hill ;?o | and i.0
M'rt Homme. wan repulsed with s-ri
'",s t?. tin Germans A .timilar
jsite hffcll thr uttacking forces in the
n'-rtheast, except In the region of the
M i'idremont wood Both attacks were
delivered after heavy preparatory born
hardments.
Aside from these attacks, only bom
bfirdments have been in pronif-.ss on
the line In France and Belgium. The'
artillery action has been extremely
heavy In the Woevre and at the foot
"f 'lie Meuse hills, in the region cart
of Verdun.
(j|-:i(HA\ Positions
imsffkctl'ai.i.v
r. i-slan torpedo-boats have ineffec- ,
tually shelled German positions on the ?
northern coast of Courland, according
''' Berlin In Gallcia, alone the lower
Str?pa IMver, the Russians have made |
<i further advance against the T<- i
:--ns. while in the Caucasus region.
Turkish attacks in the Black Sea
?' littoral were repulsed.
I he Turks, who had been contesting
thf advance of the Russians toward
Bagdad in the Serinalkerind region,
have retreated hastily, after having sus
tained heavy losses, leaving behind
th?-ru their tents and war msler'a!
?Small Infantry encounters at v;;ri
'?'}> points alonp 'he Austrcj-ltalian
f-"'it. in which what advantage there
v as tested with the Italians, have
s. rv.-d to vary the usual fighting with ,
tli- Ms guns
Ibrlln reports the recent sinking In J
th- Mediterranean, bv a mine, of an!
??ntente allied transport with '".00 Bus- i
v ,t;s t.n board, and the destruction oft
i. British aeroplane and the capture
'?f another aircraft in the North Sea
A British official communication ad
mits the loss t,f the two aeroplanes, ,
l ut denies a claim by the Germans
that the ?uhmarine K-3I was sunk bv
the Germans, declaring that the vessel
has returned safely to it? h.tsr.
?;i-:iima\ foiicks ?;\i\
(iltof.xn Kit (Ml FICF.VC'IT
i'VMIS, May 7.? In fierce attacks on
both banks of the Meuse to-day the
i.erman forces gained ground from the
French. They entered the French com
municating trenches east of hill 30-i
and gaintd a footing In the first
French I'.ne between Hatidreinont wood
and Port Douaumont over an extent of
? >trly a third of a mile.
f.t:HMA\ ATTACH STOPPED
11V FIIKXCII IIA It It At; K FIHIO
i I .- pedal Cable to The Times-Dispatch.]
i'AHIS, May 7.?Afternoon official:
-outh of the Sornme the Germans, af- \
t-r intense artillery preparation, made
^ nn attack last evening on our trenches
S'?uth of Llhons. They were stopped
by our barrage fire and their fortes
dispersed before tney reached our wire
ent.t iiglements.
in the Verdun region the. ni)?ht was
marked only by a continuous and vio
lent bombardment in the region of
bill 304 and at the Thhuiinont Farm,
in she Hatnlremont sector.
South of st. Mihiel we repulsed a
strong German reconnoitering party
which attempted to attack oni- of our'
small posts to the east of Bislec.
In Lorraine we surprised a patrol
which had crossed the river Soillc near!
'? I.anfrolcourt. southeast of Nomeny. We
returned Willi fourteen prisoners.
lhirlnc a s-f|Uall the day her..to yes-'
terday about twenty t.f our captive
balloons broke from their moorings.
Some were carried into the German
lines, whilo others came down within'
our lines. Most of the observers were
able to descend back of our line*, .
through the use of their parachutes!'
We are without news of a few of them '
who were carried into the enemy lines.!
The ofllcial communication reads:
"On the left bank of the. Meuse a I
bombardment of extreme violence, j
which lasted without cessation for two'
days in the region of hill 301, was fol- i'
lowed to-day by a powerful German at- j
tack deliverod against our front be- i
twnen hill 30-1 and T.e Mort Homme. I
The enemy, after repeated efforts, pen- I
etrale.d the underground passageways !
east of hill 30-i. Everywhere else he I
was repulsed with serious losses in- !
Dieted by our machine guns and bat- !
? erles, which energetically bombarded
(the German lines.
On the right bank, after intense
artillery preparation, the German** de
livered several f;uceesaive atlacka
(Con tin uotf "on "Sc'co nd'PageT ) J
White House Aspirant J
< ampul^n headquarters for fun
eral T. t 'olenian dw |'?nit Imve been
opened in New York City. it |s
understood tluii (ho Hfiicral's caui
pniyn for (h<. presidential uouilnn
lion ill he in lull hl.tM j? a ftrvv
ila.vs.
IDE HERE FOB CONCERT
M.irtlnolli, Anuito, (oppland, Hajje
man and Metropolitan Orchestra"
leistered at. Jefferson.
i:\pkct ki:coui> attkxijanck
Music-hovers I'ar and .Near Send
Orders for Reservations, Auguring
Success for Twenty-Third Wednes"
dn.v flub Spring Fesrival.
F<>r the r.e.xt three day.- Kichmond
"ill r.-iKu as iho music capital of the
.south. Already there wer?- domiciled
at th<- Jefferson Hotel l.ivt night Mar
tinclli, next to Caruso, the most fa
mous tenor i!i the fnited States;
Amato, k i fit: rf ail harjtouts Copcland.
one of the country's greatest pianists;
and tt:.> Metropolitan Opera House
?'rechtsar of tiftr, headed by Richard
llageruan. the .Metropolitan's pifted
conductor.
The star? of Hi,, musical firmament
held .ourt la the hotel lohhv, meet
ing: the ollt . (> 0f ;hc Wednesday club
and dls.-ti.-sing the program of the
I'L- ir, 'J.1-!.' festival, uhiill will 1)01; in
to-nlgh? at Ti?. ,-jty Auditorium, under
' 1 ' ' s auspices. With the artists
?'??? Kit-hard < opley, manager >.f th~
U'clfsoiii, Hureau. and 1-' <? Copicus,
risdit-har.d man of Gatti-C:, *azza. Kon
"ral man a per ..f th- Metropolitan
11 pern Mouse, of .V. u- York.
^r twenty-two years without in
terruption. the Wednesday Club lias
M.ired in Richmond an anntial festival
of music. The series of three con
certs, which will begin with the per
formance to-ni^ht. is the. twenty-third
m the royal line, and promises to rival
in artistic success the most nmbitiou?
??f the festivals that have gone before.
matinki; ii\s m;i:v
\ti:i> this vraii
From near and distant parts of the
the State have come orders for reser
vations The eliminations of the mat
inee this year was an experiment that
was undertaken by the Wednesday
< .ub with much concern, but the ad-I
\ a nee sale ? seats has dissipated the
-oar that the move might prove un
popular. While, it is true that the mat
inees attracted many women and chil
dren. who found it inconvenient to at
tend the night concerts, it is also true
that a large number of music lovers
who desired to hear all the concerts
found it impossible to attend the mati
nees. The attendance upon the three
evening concerts this year will prob
ably exceed the combined attendance
"f tlx- single afternoon concert and
two evening performances of former
years.
The Wednesday Club Chorus and
the Metropolitan orchestra are called
for a final rehearsal at li o'clock thin
morniiiK. The chorus will |u.vo the
opening: number at to-night's concert.
I he artists this evening will be P ?s
ouale Amato. baritone, and Olive Kline
soprano. Hoth have Mine here before
and are favorites in Richmond.
SOLOISTS AM) Ml SK IA.VS
OK ?VATIOXA I. HKPttTATlOX
The soloists to-morrow night will be.
Oeorgc^ Copeland. pianist, and Mnio
Julia Culp, mezzo soprano. Roth ap
pear here for the first time. The Wed-!
nesday Club chorus will apaii, open
the concert. Wednesday e\%>nhig will
s, e the first appearance outside of
New York And Philadelphia, of Gio
vanni Martlnelli, the Italian tenor, who
sings all of Caruso's roles when the
latter Is unable to appear, and who
is regarded by many as his e?mal. On
the same prop ram will be Anna Case
soprano, and Sophie Hraslau. contralto*
both distinguished members of the I
Metropolitan cotnpnnv.
Miss Case has never sun* before a
Ulchmond audience, but Miss Rinslnu in
a great local favorite. Her dramatic
success here three years ago when she
L (Continued uIi Tliird l'agoTj
President Expected to Accept
Berlin's Assurances on Sub
marine Warfare.
CONFERENCE WITH LANSING
Any Further Loss of American
Lives Means Instant Sev
erance of Relations.
WASHINGTON. May T.--1T.
: Wib-on and Secretary l?'isisinc corferred
late i?j->ii!?t at t?-? White llous? '>n
ti<- -Hum ion rr.nf ront intr the l.'nite*)
States as a result of ilie latest Gernia;i
note ret'Hrillnc th? conduct of :ul>
in.-in no warfare. Whib- Mr. 1<an:>ing
'"'ti< 1 no final decision h*??1 been rt'Hclsf;'!,
it is understood that the courw to be
I pursti. il probably will be know ti to
morrow or Tucs'lay
Intimations in official quarters to
nlpht iwrd that 11. ?? administration
mlKht send 'icrmany a l?n< f communi
cation. notitip the new Instructions to
.submarine commanders quoted in th
: German noto. and informing the im
peii.al government that so long us
these instructions wore effective, diplo
matic relations between the two na
tions woulfi continue. Such a com
munication, howfver, would make it
very plain that the United States will
not permit Its relations with Great
Britain to enter into th*' controversy.
It was authoritatively stated that
should another ship carrying Amer
ican citizens be sunk by a German sub
marine. in violation of the principles
of international law, diplomatic rela
tions would be severoil as soon as th<*
facts were established, and without
any further exchange of communica
t ions.
NOTHING tilVEX OCT
? ON I.KTTKIt Kit IIW POPlJ !
Kfforts t.> obtain the text of the
message from Pope Hcnedict to the
President on the submarine situation j
j and peace delivered by Mgr. Honan/.o, *
| the apostolic delegate here, yesterday,!
I were unavailing. At Loth the White ,
| House and the papal legation, it was,
said nothing would be given out.
I A passage in a statement given out !
in l?ondon last night by Lord Robert !
!Cecil, Minister of War Tr?de, in which!
the mentioned the discussion of peace i
t)\ Germanj, axul added that "our atti- '
tude, at any rate," is unchanged, w.n?
regarded a> meaning that the allies
? were not ready to discuss: peace on I
| Germany's terms.
The White House Truss Bureau has1
i placed belore tiie President thousands!
, of ?? 1 i j linrs showing newspaper com-!
ments in all parts of this country and !
in the foreign pres.-. In addition to,
?tins numerous letters have poured in to]
the White House in which prominent!
Americans have given their views on
'the submarine question.
While newspapers on the Atlantic!
;seaboard and in big manufacturing cen
ters have quite generally treated the
German reply as unsatisfactory, the
papers in th* South and West have
taken the view that the German con
cessions meet Am- i i.-an demand* t.Mily
a smell minority of tiie press com
i nient placed before the President urges
| that the threat of a severance of dip
I lomatic relations be carried out.
I COMMENT UK A IIS OI.'T POSITION
TKNTATIVEI.V TAK K.N"
The Milk of newspaper comment ap
pears to bear out the position al
ready tentatively tal i. by the admin
istration that the German government
should be given an oj po. titnity to put
its new pledges to working test. The
few cases of submarine attack recently
reported will be considered as bearing
on this question of good faith on the
part of the German government. No
cas?i of reported submirine ;ittack in
volving American liv? or interests has
been reported ince the new diplomatic
i exchanges with Germany were placed!
Oil foot.
I'onnt von P-ernstorff, the German I
ambassador, was out of the city to-day. I
He has no conferences scheduled with
Secretary Lansing. and Is awaiting an I
invitation from this govcrriYie be for* j
he ta!<e.? steps to further discuss the1
: submarine negotiations.
WILSON TO visiT HAMPTON
Tentatively Accepts Invitation lo Speak
at Ogilen Memorial
Meeting,
WASHINGTON. May 7?President
Wilson has tentatively accepted an in
vitation to speak on Friday at a Rob
ert t'. Ogden memorial meeting, to be
held l>y the Hampton Normal and In
dustrial Institute. He may go to Hamp
ton on a week-end cruise aboard rhe
yacht Mayflower, To-morrow the Pres
ident will listen for an hour to speeches
by members of the antlmilitarist com
mittee, opposing his preparedness
measures.
PROTEST TO GREAT BRITAIN
Stale Department Makes Representa
tions Concerning Seizure of Power
Schooner on Mexican Const.
WASHINGTON, May 7.?Representa
tions have been made, to the British
government by the State Department,
it was learned to-niglit, protesting
against seizure on the West Mexican
coast by the Itritish cruiser Rainbow
of the. power schooner Oregon. The
vessel, owned by the Crowley Launch
and Tow boat Company, of San Kntn
jCisco, was seized about ten days ago.
Resigns Presidency
? -.
, A
""iWOTO .8V .
,7- < ?OTiOli.pC^iOQD V &C;
SAX TO DOMIXCiO. May 7.?Juan
.Jimenes, President of Santo Domin
K<?, lias resigned, He took this action
in order to prevent armiMl interven
tion hy the I'nited States, t^uiet has
prevailed. Congress will appoint a
Provisional President.
FROM HEART DISEASE
General Manager of Fair Associ
ation Passes Away at
Sanatorium.
PUO.M1XEXT IN* CLl'B LIFE
Was Ollicial of Country and Com-'
uioiiwealth Cluhs?!>- Survived by;
Wife and Four Children?Funeral
Arrangements Not Completed. I
Abram Warwick, general tr.anagf-r of
the Virginia State Fair Association,
died last night shortly after S o'clock J
at tin- Westbrook Sanatorium of acute
dilitatioii of the heart. He was in hit*
fiftieth year.
About ten <l?.ys ago Mr. Warwick1
was taken ill at hi* apartment in tlie
Hanover. He was l&tcr removed to
Westbrook Sanatorium, where his con
dition had been considered favorable.
In fact, it was believed that h< was
recovering rapidly. After a light sup
per last night he went out for a short
walk in'the grounds of the sanatorium
and bad just returned when he was
stricken with heart trouble and died
almost immediately. His physicians
stated that death was due to natural
causes.
Mr. Warwick was twice married. His
second wife, who survived him. was
Mijs Hattie Miller, of Richmond. Me
is also survived by four children of his
first marrir.fr?, Mi.sses Phoebe and Vir
ginia Warwick and William Barksdale
and Abram Warwick, Jr.; also by two
sisters, one of whom. Miss Phoebe
Warwick, makes her home abroad.
Ill' MIMKI.Y KNOWN'
VIHMMA FA MlI/l
Mr. Warwick was a son of the. late
William Hnrksdale Warwick and grand
son of ihe late Abram Warwick, of
Richmond, owners of the Galloon Mills,
and among the most prominent ante
bellum manufacturers and exporters of
Virginia. The family is widely con
nected throughout the State, and lias
bi-en known in th.e affairs :>f Richmond
for more than a century.
In addition to his ofllcia' position as
general manager of the Virginia Stat
Fair Association, in which he succeeded
Mark It. Lloyd several yea is ai;o. Mr.
Warwick was secretary-treasurer of
the Country Club of Virginia, and had
been an active factor in its founding I
;:nd management. He was also trend-j
iiror of the Commonwealth Club, and
was widely known in business and
social circles of Richmond and Vir- I
ginia.
No arrangements for the funeral had
been made last night.
DEAD IN AUTO ACCIDENT
Two l.leuteiiiiiitN <11 A iiierien?? l-'leld \ r
llllery Killed, nnd Two Oilier Men
Serlonsly Injured.
I .A WT"X, OK LA.. Ma j ".--I .ieulen
nnt Herobl S. Xayb-r and Lieutenant
Kdwin 13. Pritchett, of tli? Kifth l*i? I>1
Artillery, were, killed, anil .1 K. Mc- ,
Mahon. Jr., of tlie Set ond Field Artil- i
lery, and Lieutenant Richard Scott, j
of the Fourth Field Artillery, were
seriously injured in an automobile ac- j
eiflent at Fort Sill early to-day.
The party was returning to quar- |
tors at the post, after attening a pnriy, i
when the car, which Xaylor was driv
ing, suddenly swerved fioin Hie road
way, and crashed into a tree. The ac
cident. it is believed, was due to th?
explosion of a tire.
Scott's face was badly lacerated, and
it is feared the sight of oi.? eye has
been destroyed. McMahon is not be
lieved to be seriously injured.
PEACE TALK HEARD
AGAIN AT CAPITAL
Significant Circumstances Lead
to Belief That Powerful Influ
ences Are at Work.
REFERREDTO IN GERMAN NOTE
Personal Message From Pope to
President Believed to Bear
on Subject.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.1
WASHINGTON, May 7.? Serious
peace talk has been revived in Wash
ington by the German note and by the
visit to the White House yesterday j
of M>sr. Giovanni Bonzano, the apostolic
delegate. with a personal message
from the Pope to President Wilson.
Whether or not there is any real
substance to the reports of a new move j
for a suspension of hostilities, remains
to he seen, but there are significant|
circumstances, which lead to the hope
that powerful Influences may be at
work to that end.
The mission of Mgr. Bonzano is one
of them. It was learned at the execu
tive odices, after his departure, that]
he had delivered to Secretary Tumulty j
a communication from the Tope that '
bore upon possible peace negotiations, j
and upon the important part the United |
States misht have in such negotiations.;
if the. submarine controversy between'
this country and Germany does not in
terfere.
In that connection it is recalled that
the Pope, from the beginning, has rec
ognized the strategic position the
United States occupies as a possible
mediator between the belligerents.
Being the most powerful of the neutral
nations, and the diplomatic channel
through which the warring elements
now communicate, the Holy Sew has re- '
garded President Wilson as the logi
cal instrumentality for bringing the
contending forces together, when the
time should arrive.
MESS ACE FltOM POPE
SEVEHAI, .MONTHS AtiO
It was with this in mind that the
Pope requested Cardinal Gibbous to
convey a personal message to tho Pres
ident many months ago?a message
which was never made public, but one
which, it was generally believed, had
to do with peace negotiations. It was
learned at thi?t time that the Presi
dent then saw no favorable opportu
nity to make a new tender of good of
fices to the belligerents. He had pre
viously informed each side of the con
flict that he stood ready at any mo
ment to mediate for a cessation of hos
tilities. but he did not then feel in
clined, it was said, to do more than
repeat his offer
Neither the White House nof the
apostolic delegate would discuss the
message from the Pope. It was im
1 mediately sent to the President by Sec
1 retary Tumulty, and, being regarded
as strictly confidential, no official would
j comment upon it or do more than inti
i mate that it made reference to peace
proposals.
This message, coming so closely on
tho heels of the new German note, has
caused speculation as to tho possibll
1 ity of early peace discussions. This
note, as has been pointed out, con
j tains the frank statement by Germany
that the Berlin government, "con
j scions of Its strength." was willing to
' consider peace terms upon a basis that
i will safeguard Germany's vital inter
; ests
The tact is recited in this communi
cation that twice within recent months
tbe German government lias let the
j fact be known that it was disposed
to treat for peace. The intimation
then followed that the Germans were
sti!! ready to discuss terms and for
that reason, as well ns for others, the
Berlin ministry would regret any
break in friendly relations with the
raited States.
ATTITl DE OK Pit ICS! DENT
IS .NOT VET It EVE A I,ED
What view the President will take
of this section of the Berlin note and
of the Pope's communication cannot
be stated Ho may take the position
that the note, in fact, reveals no new
attitude on the part of Germany; that
the allies have known all along that
Berlin was prepared to talk peace, and
that nothing remains for this govern
ment to do except to hold Itself ready
to act as intermediary at any hour of
the day or night the allies may wish
to consider the German terms.
American diplomatic representatives
in every intelligent capital, it car. be
stated definitely, have instructions to
make the position of the United States
clear with regard to peace overtures,
and to lose no favorable opportunity
to impress upon the governments to
which these diplomats are accredited,
the eagerness with which tho United
States will respond when our services
may be needed
The feeling prevails here, therefore,
that the President will make no fresh
offer of mediation to the nations now
at war, but will content himself with
the occasional reminders of American
willingness to act, which the. Presi
dent's ambassadors are giving to the
belligerents.
All peace talk Is more or less signi
ficant. however, no matter how remote
the possibility of an early ending of |
the war, and to that extent Wash
ington is decidedly Interested in the |
recent developments in that direction. '
It is too much to say. though, that
either (lie administration or those
closely associated with It are of the]
opinion that the conflict has entered j
upon its final stages.
Henry Souther has been appointed
by Secretary of War Baker ?* con
ultiiiK engineer to handle the in
creasing aeronautical problems of the
government, a field that admits of
;teat possibilities of expansion and
ieveiopineiit. He is co-operating m.
? vely with the work ??r the Commit
"?' on Industrial Preparedness or the
Hoard'1 States NavaI Consulting
coreliiwstir
LIFE TERM III PRISON
She Is Saved From Paying Extreme
Penalty for Part in Irish
Revolt. i
HAD beex SENTENCED TO DIE
liife of Henry O'Hanrahan Also Is
Spared at Hands of Communder
i in-Chief^-GtrorKe and .Toliii Plunk
ett Get len 'i ears Imprisonment.
^ DUBLIN. May 7 (via London).?
Countess Georglana Murkievicz. one of
the prominent figures in tlie Irish re
?*olt. H'M sentenced to death, after
? h.-.- trial by court-mortial, hut the sen
: tence has been commuted to penal
J servitude .'or life, it was officially an
i nounced this afternoon. The death
|sentence upon Henry uhunrahan also
was rummuted to a life term.
The death sentences imposed uo';n
George Plunkett and John I'lunkett.
j brothers or Joseph I'lunkett. who wis
I executed lahl week, Imve been corn
mute-1 ??> ten years' ponal servitude.
I l ho oll.cril sUi^nicut announcini;
I the sentences and commutations, says:
1 "The following further results of
: trials by the Held general court-martial
[are announced:
"Sentenced to death, but commuted to
j penal servitude for life by the general
i officer commanding-in-chief?Countess
j Georgiana Markievicz and Henry
I O'Hanrahan.
"Sentenced to death, but commuted
! to tpn years' penal servitude?George
j I'lunkett and John Plunkett."
! NO OFFll.IAI, KHilHKS
OF CITIZRX HEAD
No official figures have yet hoen
I issued on the deaths of civilians in
? the recent rovolt. but 160 already
have been accounted for. The list is
! still incomplete, because many of the
dead have not been registered in any
I place open to public inspection,
i Fifty of the. victims were buried in
| Glasnevin Cemetery on Sunday and
i thirty others in Mount Jerome Ceme
! lory. Certificates of death from gun
shot wounds In 150 cases have been
issued.
Owing to the shortage of labor, the
bodies in many instances were interred
j without coffins. Pathetic scenes are
(witnessed hourly at the various bury
j Ing grounds. At Mount Jerome, at
: times, interments proceeded under a
: cross-lire from the soldiers at Porto
[ Hello Barracks and the rebels on Kialto
I Bridge.
j There is still a possibility of addi
tional bodies lying tinder the debris of
| destroyed buildings and other unex
plored places, for reports of persons
missing are coming from nverv dis
t riot.
(II FSTIO.V OF COMI'IONS VTKiv
(A I SKS IIKA1IT lit'It \ IX t;
The riueslion of compensation for
j losses sustained by trailers during the
revolt is causing much heartburning
1'nder the British law the government.
It not liable for such losses in Ireland
or Scotland, but a strong feeling pre
vails that the government should make
an exception in this rase, and formu
late a s.hemo of compensation. The
council of the Dublin Chamber of Com- I
fierce, al a specially convened meet
ing. adopted the following resolution: ;
"The council desires to place on re-,!
cord their opinion that outbreaks i
would have been impossible hut for!
the gross and unpardonable laxity, I
long continued, of the administration !
of the Irish government. The Irish ,
government, therefore, considers that i
the funds necessary for repairing the 1
buildings and property of unoffending
citizens In the rebellion should be pro
vided by the imperial treasury without
delay."
other meetings for business corpora
iCoiUlnueiToff ThTra rag67)
TAKEN TO FOLLOW
FLEEING OUTLAWS
Whether Men Were Villa or
Car ran za Followers Is
Not Known.
FOUR TROOPS OF CAVALRY
START AT ONCE FOR SCENE
Small Detachment at Glenn
Springs Stands Off Attackers
for Four Hours.
VISIT TWO OTHER SETTLEMENTS
New Development Only Matter Dis
cussed at Conference Between
Scott anil Obregon.
Posse of Texans
Starts in Pursuit
.(Special to The TlniON-Dl.tpiilfh.l.
MAUATHOX. TEX., >1 ny 7 \\ .
K. I0III*, licsdliiR n poinc of fifty
Tmiiiin, ntarted from hero this nf
Irrnuon to pursue the Mexicans who ?
ruliled (? leun Sprint* nnd Honqiill Ins
Krltlny night nnd itnturdny morning.
Every member of the pome 1m fa
miliar with the topography of the
Hlg (lend country, nnd In expert
with both rille nnd revolver.
The McxicnnN nre Maid to he
camped on hoth nldcn of the river
hetwecn IloiHiullla* nnd llouiiullla*
llel Cnrinen.
EL, PASO, TEXAS. May T.?Three
American soldiers and a ten-year-old
boy have lost their lives and two
American citizens have been kidnaped
and cnrrled south of the international
boundary to almost certain death in
another raid of Mexican bandits that
takes rank with Francisco Villa's fa
mous attack on Columbus, X. M. Whe
ther the bandits were Villa followers
or Carranza forces is not known.
The foray, carrying them through the
southern limits of Brewster County, in
1 he Big Bend district of Texas, and
taking- in three little settlements near
the border?Glenn Springs, Bouquillns
and Demeurs?took place on Friday
night and Saturday morning, but news
of it did not reach hero until to-day.
Within an hour steps were being:
taken to disperse the bandits. Major
Funston ordered four troops of cavalry
to the raided section to re-enforce small
detachments already on their way to
the scene front the Presidio, Alpino
and other points.
These troops got under way to-night.
It Is said here to-night that If the
exigencies of the case demand such
action, they will cross the border in
order to run down and disperse the
bandits. The forces consist of two
troops of the Sixth Cavalry from Fort
Bliss, El Paso, under Major Langhorne,
and two troops of the Fourteenth
Cavalry from Fort CJark, under Colonel
Sibley, commander of tho Fourteenth.
Tho two detachments are expected to
j detrain to-morrow morning and Join
j Major Langhorne's at Alpine and Colo
; nel Sibley's at Marathon. From these
| points they will march south ninety
j miles to the border.
[ COM?'EUE.VCE OVER CO-OPERATION
COMES TO ABRUPT HALT
While military events were develop
ing with such rapidity, tho conference
over the co-operation of American and
'Mexican soldiers in Mexico, which had
j been expected to reach a culmination
j to-day. cams to an abrupt halt.
! General;, Scott and Funston met Gen
eral Obregon and Juan Amador. Sub
j Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico,
jin the immigration station at tho El
. Paso end of the. International Bridge
I shortly after 11 o'clock for what hail
? been expected to be their final confer*
j nee. It developed later, however,
that practically the only matter dis
I cussed was the bandit raid at Glenn
Springs.
What was said at the meeting was
' not divulged.
| General Gavira, commander of the
J.iare/. garrison, General Santos and
Andreas Garcia. Mexican consul of El
Paso, took part in a later conference
in General Scott's private car.
General Obregon was to-night in
telegraphic communication ' with Mexi
co City, and it is believed that he In
formed the first chief of the new de
velopments and suggested that same
i action be taken.
Practically all the details of the raid
reaching here to-day cainc to General
Funston from Major Meyer, of the
Fourteenth Cavalry, stationed at
Marfa. According to Major Meyer,
the bandits, about seventy-five In num
ber. crossed the Klo Grande from the
Mexican side late on Friday afternoon
at a point south of Terlingau. Tex.,
where there is a guard of about thirty
men.
From there they proceeded eastward
through the desolate reaches of tho
Big Ben country over an old wagon
road toward Glenn Springs, a small
ranch settlement.
| ATTACK BEFOHE 8BNTI.NEJL
COUMI SO VXD ALARM
A few miles west of Glenn Springs,
an America patrol of eight men from
Troop A, of the Fourteenth Cavalry
