A REPXJBLI
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNIXti, MAY. 8, 1916
10 PAGES
T W ENT Y-S I XTH YE All
10 PACES
VOL. XX VI., XT). 351
V TDIV.D'
Jl UWm
MW 11
7
GENERAL FUNSTON WANTS TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND UNITED STATES SOLDIERS FOR ARIZONA BORDER DUTY AND SUGGESTS CALLING OUT THE MILITIA
THE
ARIZON
CAN
7 avj vuan bavxs ,
VILLISTAS Ml M
Ttwim a m si a
RS
I t S3 111! MSH I F II -v I m .
I
BANDITS CROSS RIO GRANDE
AND BATTLE ALL NIGHT WITH
NINE AMERICAN SOLDIERS
Three Trooper and a Ten-Year-Old Boy Are Killed, Two Cavalry
men Wounded, Another Missing, and Two American Citizens Are
Kidnaped and Carried Over L ine Where Their Throats Are Cut
Nine Troopers, Taking Refuge in Adobe Hut, Give Battle to Ten
to One Force and only Flee When Thatched Roof Is Fired and
They Are Forced from Their Retreat Dead and Wounded Are
Carried Overland Eighty-Five Miles Before Word of Raid Reaches
Outside World . . . '
n it
MEXICO LIKELY
Arizona Should Have 25,000
Troops, If Not Regulars At
Least That Many Of Militia
1 v in Crushing Uaiulits
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
ALPINE, Texas, May 7. - Villista bandits some seventy in number
fnrrlpH t.Vip Rio Cran Hp Fridav nio-ht and sweeping for fifteen niiles
inland on American soil, raided the little settlement of Glenn Springs
and attacked a detachment of American cavalry consisting of nine men j
of Troop A, the Fourteenth. Three troopers and a little ten-year-ola j
boy were killed, two cavalrymen were wounded and another is missing.
He is believed to be a prisoner of th e bandits, who are now fleeing south
ward into Coahuila, Mexico.
Two American citizens, J.' Dee mer, and a man named Compton,
according to reports received here, were carried 'across the Rio Grande
and reports have it that their throats have been cut. A posse of fifty
citizens of Marathon are tonight in p ursuit of the Villistas. .
The dead troopers are William Cohen, New York City; Stephen J.
Danville. Kv. The missing
trooper is Roscoe C. Tyre. The little boy is the son of Compton. He was j Thl. ;iiM,
deaf and dumb and the bandits are thought to have Kinea mm m rage
because he could not answer their q uestions.
The two wounded troopers, Privates J. Birck and Frank Defree,
were brought here this afternoon ba dly wounded. Birck's body was
filled with small brass pieces of tac ksfired from a shotgun. Defree was
burned about the heart and shoulders.
In a little adobe house, nine cavalrymen made their fight for lives
against the seventy or more Villista bandits at Glenn Springs. A hail of
shot poured for more than two hours into the single window of the mud
,,,,., . i (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
rTm-itol Inlim'ssrsi EL PASO, May 7. - "I could easily use 25,000 troops in Arizona
oi't'icials at 'Washington' alone," said General Funston today, "and there should be that many in
With Need of' More I Ji r-: that one state. The number that should be along the long southern bor-
j der line of Texas should be much greater."
! If the troops that have been sent into the "Big Bend" country are
sent across the line military men said today that the dispatch of more
j troopsjnto Mexico was essential or the expedition wrould have to be lim
I ited to a mere sortie.
I No attempt was made to conceal the embarrassment felt by military
; men over their inability to send more troops to points on the border where
j uneasy residents have been calling for more adequate protection. The
j two troops sent from El Paso have been regarded as almost essential to
the garrison here but it was . decided to use them rather than draw on
the already attenuated forces at other points. .
Some weeks ago the drain on the 27,000 troops in the southern
department had become so great that General Funston appealed for
more troops and failing that, for militia. The war department failed to
grant his request. The best disposition possible of the troops had" been
made. In many cases where the inhabitants have asked for .protection
it was impossible to send troops. '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 7. Re
newed aiding on Anvsricin terri
tory by Mexican outlaws at Glenn
Sorinrs and Bouquillas, Texas,
under circumstances paralleling
the Columbus massacre, in-pressed
officials here tonight with the ur
gent , necessary for Vrong meas
ures for greater liberty in crush
ina the bandit raids.
The report of the new violations
of the United States said and the
killing of five Americans from a
quarter most unexpected and in
which General Carranza had de
clared he had complete control
against out'iwrv, occssioner great
surprise. Important changes in
border patrol forces, with possibly
another punitive expedition into
Vexico in the Big Bend reoion of
Trxa where the Glenn Sorinqs
ind Bcquillas raids occurred with
Petidio as base were predicted.
Confereii.-cy between Generals
Scott and nliK-Kiin regarding the
Texas i:iiil. it i- cd nii; nly
siiifhtlv ih l.iy nun lusion of tln-ir liro- I
t'hi'l.. A iiwk-wim from General Scott
today v.-.iH Interpreted as meaning
';ir!y rutifit atiou of ibe agreement.
So rotary Baker tomorrow will direr:
necessary as a renit nf the Hits
li'-ltd i'j urnou,. . i;ihi,pi 4',.iiwetr)' ,
ported 'ti.nmht tlm movement' r.f ,i
considerable forr, ,,r h ird. r troops to
th Ut fern' district already haw
lihh bandits mav
iiil certain sections of the b,,r.l..i-
ariiiy officers pointed out tonight, was
illustrated in the Texas raids. Condi
tions iit Glenn Si Tints, it is declared
nr duplicated at many other fulnts
M al.ini; , n Ijti,. where small pn.up
"f "'iilicrs arc protn-tinir frontier
troiprly imd doinir jiairnl duty. It
van aK, iiiviiteil out that th- ralil.is
nlcr.d the I'niteil S'a'es.fror.i On
Inula, tin native stale of General C.--rmi.a
lumwelf ;,iul l-(.r lie haslnain-
tallied liis irntiol almost uiirhal
I lor.irert. Th fanan'.a uovernim lit In
I DfSotiatiotis. lias heen insisting
ALLIED TRANSPORT IS
SUNK; SIX HUNDRED "
RUSS TROOPS DROWN
SERTEHGES
. t
I PROTEST SEIZURE
AMERICAN SHIP
FUNSTON 111 III
MiLITiiRY FDBCE OUT IN PURSUIT
thai (in!.- :n f 1 1 1 l?i i :i Int ua
( fort, for the Americans refused to I 1V(.rf ,(j ,.,iv
give up: - Id. cavalrymen nepi up - Th;,, lhv rn,.H(., rai,IinK VIS
steady riflo tire in oetiani answer.
Then the Mexican leader ordered fi-e
balls to be thrown on the roof, thickly
thatched with candalaria.
The blazing, weeds '.orlured the
OF THE VILLISTA BANDIT HfllDERS
i.v i-oii-
siu-r:'tiy proliuiit the May or Ameri
eau forc-i in M. xico is recoKni.i-d. It
is liolieveil. touever. that thev will
not materially .-iff net the present dis-
1 posUii.ii of General Pershimrn Oil.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KIj I 'A SO, Tex., -May 7. Three
American HoMii rs and a ten year old
hoy have lot their lives and two
American citizens have heen kiT
nnpped and carried south of the in-
o-.Hau.Mm, ooui..ai 10 aimosi cer- in the Immigration station at the!
tain death in another raid of Mex-1 American end of the international1
lean haiidits that takes rank with j bridge shortly after eleven ok j
.......... i- lm morning Tor what had been.ex-
lumt.us. .New Mexico. W hether the I )ected to be their final conference
marauders were Villistas or Carran- lt developed later, however, that r.rac
z.sta is not knuwn. tically the only maUer fl wj
The bandits foray, carrying them the bandit raid at Glenn Spfines
throtiBh the southern Umit of Brew- what was naiil th ..,.
u.r nena -uisirici not divulged. Immediately afterward)
three little General ohregon and .Secretary Ama-'
dor hurried to Juarez where thev on
end bodies. Then, smashing th"
doors, the troopers broke for the
open, firing as they ran. Two were
shot and killed as they fled. One is
miesing znd if believed to be dead.
Another was killed as he tried to
climb through the' window of
house. ,
Mexican soldiers in Mexico which had . " . ??. . .!. . ?'-2
u. I..,,,,.,! ,, u , litre ax ine reauquancrs to nup -
X:r v:: zrii,u Gr:ai Fr :t
Genitals Kcott and Kunston met Gen-! EJ P"u J", "-V't W !
erai obreson ami Juan AnlZ - ! he E'9,hth U":ted, 8ta e,,, ry
ic.-,n .i,.mn. , .....7 ' 'i , . Fort Bhss and two iroops of the
, loieiKii auairs ....u ,j . mt,in
the ImmiKration station i.t the ! r"u"""k" v"."" 7 . ' .
gun platoon from t-ort (larK to en
train immediately and they are ex
pested to reach here tomorrow.
AcordinK to the story hrouKht hen-
soldiers below and burnt their hearts ttiarua ciimoaign. thoush sim of the
! WASHINGTON, May 7 - Kepre
: scntations have been made to the
; British Sjivernmeiit by the state
department it was learned toniKht.
i ijrottine awainst secure on the
' west Mexican coast hy the I.rit
! ish cruiser. Rainbow of the Anier
! ican power schooner ireoti
I Whether the principles of enemy
! ownership" can be extended to
vessel leased hy Germans is the
j diplomatic question involxeil, the
' ireKou hai iiiR been leaped to a
I German firm at Ma.atlan. The
! vessel was seized in the Gulf of
I California about In days ago.
j Xcw Offensive Against Vor
I lnn Js Launclied and (er
J mans (lain Considerable.
! (i round ttav IJerlin and
Paris IiejM)rts
V !
DUBLIN REBELS
A
IT
O
T
troi'iiers now with General Pershing
tnav !e dra.wi tinnn for any ikw ex
tielili. n in pursuit of the outlaws wii-.
raided the I'i- !?ei,il district. Gen
era' Knnst'iu. it is known hu ,
uesle.i hoslnsr Ihe lias" of the whole
the! Mexican movement from Columbus tr
T'lfsidin, opposite Oiinaaa. to shorten
1!ie linn of eommuiiicntiiin ir Chi
hu.'hna. This nlan may. now be re
newni. to furnish a has for eauy
illH:oS!ll(:ll of troops' to
Hter county in
of Texan, and taking In
settlements near the bonier Glenn
Sprinen. HoqiiillaH and tieemers took
place on Friday night and Saturday
morning, but newH of it did not
reach here until today. No Informa
tion was given as to the Mexican
louse. Within an hour preparation
had been begun for adequate military
action. Major General Frederick Fun-
icreu uenerai uiiregon private car
and begun a conference which lasted
three hours. i
General Oavirn' commander of the.
Juarez garrison, General Cantos i and
Andres Garcia, Mexican consul In F.I
I 'hud, took part in this vjiHcussion.
the Mexican bandits first atacked a
store; 'ind one or two houses in IVi
quillas, where they . made IVemers
and Compton prisoners, and then sped
'fifteen miles northward to jnake their
nttack on Clenn Springs which is
fringed by rugged hills. At Glenn
Springs they wrecked a wax lartorv
cone with
the bonlei conditions in both Co.ihi.ila
and Chiliiiahua.
ON REPLY TU
OTE
1EIH
irinifirm i;rmt-oi . . t
Ilo,.,1".'". ';,r 'r"T te.cgraphic communication witin Ve-
raided section to reinforce small de- i
tachments already on the scene from
J'resldio, Alpine and other convenien.
(Continued on Pane Two)
Columbus Hears
Of Border Raid
- With Concern
liustiano Carranza at Queretaro and il
was understood he was ucuimfntlnir
the- first chief with the new develop- i '
inputs and suggested new action that , tl . , ,
would have to he taken Renublican A. P. Leased Wire
. Practically all the details of the roLrMHrS, N. M.. May 7. t- Re
raid reaching here todav came ,! port -of the Mexican raid in the nig
Qeneral Funston from Major O H 1 lif,nd diMrH't ot lexaf" Yere receiveu
Miner f ih. u ' I here tonight with concern.- All avail-
1ioou,l ir VT-.r.. A . it ... . i.
consist of two trimiM of he .lhth'" "v . " -viajor
f iw u,i... n !M-y", the bandits, about 75 In num
liointM.
These troops got under way tonight.
II is said here that if the exigencies
of the case demands such action they
will cross (he border In order to run i
down and disperse the bandits. They
der Major George T. Langhorne. and v "i , . L" - ,n
two troops of the Fourteenth cavalry e lae rnday aiternoon at
from Fort Clark, under Cohmel Fred-'t ' f a ,le" SOUlh "f T('rlin"
orlck W. Sibley, commander of tnP la' T;k; where there is a guard of
Fourteenth. . t""1 th'rtJr
The two detachments are expected "'"I U'?Te l-"-fe.led eastward
to de train tomorrow morning, Major. hr0',glthe reaches of the
Langhorne s at AU-ine and Colonel ,b:nd c"""ry over an old wagon
i""i uieuu ppritigs, a small
' I ranch settlement.
A few miles west of Glenn Spring,
points they wilt march south ninety
miles to the border.
While
Ing with
over the cooperation of American and
military events were develop., "n American patrol of einht men from
such rapidity, the eonferen... rr""" A "f thp l-Wteenth cavalry
(Condoned-mi page Three)
I able matters were transmitted to Gen-
I eral .1. .1. Pershing, the expeditionary
commander.
Additional dispatches' received to
day from Major Robert U Howze,
whose command surprised and scat
tered the largest Villista band at OJos
AzuleB recently, placed the Mexican
casualties at fifty-five instead of
forty-two, as previously reported. The
scattered jir'Jups of Mexicans are be
ing pursued by the American caval
rymen, till of whom are sharpshooters
and were said today to be In the vicin
ity of I'arolachic, on the Rio de Con
ches, making their way toward the
mountain wihVernesses.
MYSTERY IN DROWNING
republican A. P. Leased Wirel
HASWKLU Ciih)., May l.W.) '
Samis. a prominent rancher rosldini;
south of this place was found deal
in a itocl; water tank on .his place
ye.;oi day afternoon by his liride - f
six weeks. There was a rope around
his nock' to which was tied a heft" y
rock. A slight w mnd va funnii over
hi:' temple. The upper poition of his
body uas- submerged hut his legs
were hanging over th; edge of the
lain,. -i i is. nanus ioki ttie coroner
that Itr husband had left the house
a lew minutes previous to the finding
nf his body to get a pail of vat?r.
Whether it i:; a case of suicide or foul
play has not been decided.
URGE BREAK WITH GERMANY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HoSToX, Muv 7. Resolutions urg
ing President .Wilson to break off dip
lomatic relations with Germany were
i'dopted at a meeting today in observ
ance of the first anniversary of the
inkii'K of (he l.usitania. About 2."00
persois attended the meeting which
was under 'he auspices of the Citizens
for American and the, Allies. James
V!. Peck, former assistant attorney
areneral of the I'nited States and Prof.
Josich Hoyce. of Harvard were the
principal Kpe;Sers.
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 7. President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing con
ferred late tonight at the White House,
on the situation confronting the
I'nited Slates as a result of the latest
German note regarding the conduct of
submarine warfflre. While Mr. Lans
ing said later that nu final decision
had been reached, it is understood that
the course to be pursued probably will
be known tomorrow or Tuesday.
There were strong intimations in of
ficial quarters tonight that the admin
istration might send to Germany a
brief communication, noting the new
instructions to submarine command
ers quoted -in the German note, and in
forming the imperial government that
so long as these instructions were ef
fective the diplomatic relations he
tween the two countries would con
tinue.
It was authoritatively stated that
should another ship carrying American
citizens be sunk by a German subma
rine in violation of the principles of
international law, diplomatic relations
would be severed just as soon as the
facts were established and without
any further exchange of communica
tions. Tn ' connection with the peace
suggestion in the German note, the
attention of officials was attracted
here today by a passage in a statement
given out in lmdon lust night by Lord
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
What seemingly is a new offensive
j with its objective the capture of Ver-
dun, has been launched by the Ger-
jmans northeast and northwest of the
' fortress. In l-oth sectors, gains for
! the Germans are chronicled in the
'latest French official communication.
l:i the former sector, between the
; llaudemont wood and Douaumont
French first line trenches over near
j ly a third of a mile were entered Jiy
I the Germans while northwest of Ver-
dun to the east of Hill S4 they pen
I etratcd under ground passageways of
' the French.
i Russian torpedo boats have Ineffec
jtually shelled German positions on
the northern coast of Courtland, ac
cording to Iierlin.
In Galicia along the lower Stripa
river, the Russians have made a fur
ther advance against the Teutons,
while in the Caucasus region, the
Turkish attacks in the lack Sea lit
teral were repulsed. ;
The Turks, who had heen contesting
the advance of the Russians toward
Hagdad in the Serinalkerlnd region.
have retreated hastily after having
sustained heavy losses, leaving be
hind them three tents and war ma
terial. Merlin reports the recent sinking in
the Mediterranean by a mine of an
entente allied transport with six hun
dred Russians on hoard and the de-.
strnction of a British aeroplane and j on
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
lil'LLIN, May 7. MVia London)
Countess Georgina Markovicz. cue it
the prominent forefgners in the Irish
revolt, was sentenced to death after
her trial by court martial, but th
sentence has been commuted to penril
servitude -for life, it was officially an-
nnanoed this afternoon. The death
sentence upon Henry O'Hanrahan was
also commuted to a life term.
Death sentences imposed upon
George Plunkeit and John I'lnkctt.
brothers, of Joseph Plunkett. who was
f-Mteiited last week, have been com
niuieci to 10 years penal servitude.
' the official statement announcing
the sentences and commutations siy:
"The following further dispatches of
trials' by tile field genral court mar
tial are announced:
Sentenced to death but commutel
to penal servitude for life by the ge:
eral officer commanding
countess Georgina
He-try O'Hanrahan.
"Sentenced to death but commuted
to. p years penal seivltude, George
Plunkttt and John Plunkett."
It is reported here that Lewis Tin;-
comjf first commisioner of W;irks has
been appointed to succeed Augustine
Birrell as chief secretary of Ireland.
A party of about one thousand
prisoners left Dublin last night f'ir
F.neland, they were mostly from the
cocntry districts. This is the last day
under General Maxwell's orders for
the Sinn Feiners, and Irish volunteers
to hand in their arms and smmuni-
chtef.
M.irkievicz and
the rapture of another aircraft in the
North Sea. England admits the loss
of the two aeroplanes but denies a
claim hy the Germans that the Riitish
submarine K-31 was sunk by (lie
I Germans.
Transport is Sunk
.BERLIN. May 7 (By wireless to
Sayville) Tl.e sinking of an allied
(Continued on Page Three
While no official announcements
have been issued on til-" death of ci
vilians in the recent revolt. 130 al
ready nave been accounted for.
Count Plunkett, (George Xnhlo
Plunkett) and his wife, have been
arrested. Count Plunkett'B title is i
PRpal one. He and his wife hava
be?n prominent in philanthropic work,
art and literature.
Various Shipping Bills To f
Reach 1 The House Today
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
INCREASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, May 7. The board of
trade Vet urns for April show that im
ports increased 2.048.000, while ex
poits ini re ased 4,R48 0OO.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 7. Various
administration shipping bills, , com
bined into one measure and amended
Robert Cecil, minister of war trade, in 1 so thaf democratic leaders believe it
which he mentioned the discussion of j enlist the united support of -their
peace by Germany, and added that I party members and possibly some re
"our attitude, at any rate, is tin- j publicans, will be introduced in the.
changed." This statement was re- j house tomorrow by Chairman Al. x-
ganled as meaning that the allies were ; ander of the merchant marine com
not ready to discuss peace on Ger
many's terms.
mittee. It will be referred to the
committee ujid reported back Tuesday.
By limiting the government opera-
TO RELIEVE SHACKLETON I tion of vessels to five years after the
LONDON, May 7. The government ci0se of the European war in the re
has decided to organize immediately vised bill, the committee has won Mil
an expedition for the relief of Lieu- jority Leader Kitchen and other in-te.-iant
Sir Ernest H. Shackloton, who, fluentinl democrats to its support. Mr.
with a number of his Vnen is ma-j Kitchen tonight announced his com
rooned in the Antarctic. I plete satisfaction with the bill, prem
ised to take tlie floor iVi favor of it, ami
predicted its passage. Ship owners
who have made a hard fight in the
committee against "the government;
going into business - by operating
ships," also have expressed them
selves as pleased over the important
change.
In its modified form the bill is des
tined to meet with more favor in the
senate than did the ship purchase
measure last session, which was fili
bustered to its death by a umall group
of r revolting democrats who joined
wifh" the republican minority. There
ar4 at least three new democratic sen
ators who will support the measure,
and the revolting members of the last
session will not be able to block the,
bill as they did last year, even if they
should desire to oppose it.
