THE WEATHER
Thunder showers this afternoon or
tonight. Cool in west portion.
Tuesday fair and cooler.
THE DAILY TELEGRAM
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE
( THE CIRCULATION J
I of the Telegram U more than double I
I the net paid circulation of the
^ other Clarlciburg paper. J
ESTABLISHED 1861.
PRICE TWO CENTS
"TEDDY" IS FOR BOWERS
RooseVelt Urges the Election of Republican Nominee
For Congress in the Second District of This State
MARTINSBURG, May 8.?Theodore Roosevelt, former president of the United States and presidential nominee of the Progressive party in 1912. has come out unqualifiedly for the election of George M Bowers Re
publican candidate for Congress from the Second district of this state. This action on the part of Colonel Roosevelt is-most gratifying to Republicans and Progressives alike in the district, following so closely studious at
tempts on the part of the Democratic press aided by General Charles D. Elliott, former United States marshal and once nominee of the Progressive party for Congress, to create the impression over the district that Colonel
Roosevelt did not and would not countenance the election of Mr. Bowers. In view of the fact that General Elliott wired Colonel Roosevelt urging him to declare himself .against the election of Bowers. Roosevelt's endorsement
of Bowers's candidacy is most significant.
It is evident that Colonel Roosevelt did not act hastily but went into the subject carefully and thoroughly as the language used in his indorsement of Bowers conclusively shows. Colonel Roosevelt ascertained what Bow
ers stands for and then he wired him to "stand tight on the vital issues," thus showing that he was fully cognizant of the position and attitude of Bowers. Colonel Roosevelt apparently is so well acquainted with political af
fairs in the Second district and so well satisfied with the Bowers platform that he feels no hesitancy and exercises no reserve whatever in giving enthusiastic indorsement, and at the same time takes a rap at those who would
play into the hands of the Democrats for factional purposes rather than for the good of the nation and the future of the country, when the greater part of the world is at war.
Colonel Roosevelt's message of indorsement was datsc* and sent out from New York Saturday night and received here Sunday morning. It was addressed to George M. Bowers, the nominee whose home is here, and it
reads as follows:
New York. May 6. 1916.
George M. Bowers, Martinsburg, W. Va.:
Your letter was in a mass of mail on my return to Oyster Bay when I returned from Chicago, and I have only just received it. ,
I wish it were possible for me to speak for you, but as that is not so, I send you this word of hearty greetings. I am glad that Mr. Keim, your former opponent, is supporting you and I trust that all Progressives will do
so as well as all Republicans and independent citizens.
You, stand tight on the vital issues of the day?the issues of Americanism, of preparedness and of the performance of international duty?the issues as to which V ?> nr'-ninistration has been so signally derelict in its duty
to the American people.
I wish you all success.
? (Signed) THEODORE ROOSEVELT.
TEXAS GOVERNOR URGED
TO PROTECT THE BORDER
Telegrams and Letters from All
Along the Border Are Sent
to Governor Ferguson.
GENERAL FUNSTON TO ACT
Secretary Baker Says Ameri
can Commander Meeds No
New Instructions.
<ar ASSOCIATED PRItS)
WASHINGTON. May 8?Secretary
Baker stated Monday that the war
department considers the agreement
under which the army began the pur
suit of Villa bandits still in opera
tion and that under its terms. Gener
al Funston will take any steps nec
i to pursue the bands which
? raided the Big Ben country
i further instructions.
A new American expedition may
already be across the Mexican border
in pursuit of the bandits who raided
Glen Springs and Alpine," Tex., last
week. Secretary Baker said Monday
he had received a report from Gener
al Funston as to steps taken in that
direction but declined to reveal Its
contents. He said General Fuston s
original orders still stood, however,
and they gave him authority to cross
whenever the need arose.
No additional report of the raid
had reached the department at the
time.
GOVERNOR IS BESIEGED
TO PROTECT THE BORDER
EL PASO*" Tex" May 8?'Tele
grams and letters from all along the
Texas border were being forwarded
Monday to Governor Ferguson urg
ing that he use the state militia for
border j^-otectlon.
HEADING INTO INTERIOR
ARE MEXICAN BANDITS
(BY A..OCIATKO ...I.)
ALPINE. Tex., May 8.?Fleeing
through the wild mesas of northern
Co abulia, the seventy or more bandits
that raided the American settlement of
Glen Springs and Roqulllas last Friday,
killing three cavalrymen and a nine
year-old boy, were believed to be head
ing into the Interior Monday many
miles from the scene of their depreda
tions.
MAY SERVE TO AROUSE
DEPARTMENT OF WAR
(?V ASSOCIATED PNSSS)
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. May 8?
Arpiy offices of the southern depart
ment headquarters here are hopeful
MOST OF THE MEN
ARE BACK AT WORK
! that the Mexican bandit raid at Glen
; Springs, Tex., in which American sol
i diers and civilians were slain, will
serve to arouse the war department
to the pressing need of additional
troops for border patrol duty.
Major General Funston asked forj
more troops at the time he was forced'
to tako 2,500 men from the border
to strengthen General Pershing's
force in Mexico but the request was
not granted.
The nine soldiers attacked at Glen
Springs belonged to a regiment of
! the Fourteenth cavalry that has been
! attempting to patrol a stretch of
I nearly 400 miles of the widest coun-|
! try along the border. Troops of the,
; regiment are spread from Laredo al-'
j most to Sierra Blanca. Because of1
the immense territory to be covered'
! it was necessary to divide the regl
| ments Into many small detachments. j
CIRCUjHOlT
Orders Are Entered in Some
Cases and Two Cases Are
Continued.
In the circuit court Monday the,
case of Thomas J. Bennett et al j
ugainst C.|I. Farnsworth was con-'
tinued.
A continuance order was entered!
in the case of Hiram J. Burnside j
against the Baltimore and Ohio Rail-1
road Company.
The trial of the cage of the Lum-j
perport Industrial Company against1
Ralph Y. Fortney was re-set for
May 24.
N01E 10 GERMANY
Is Practically Completed and
Will Be Sent at Once to
City of Berlin.
<?V ASSOCIATED .tRCta)
WASHINGTON, May 8.?A note to
| Germany has been practically com
| pleted and probably will be forward
ed to Berlin Monday. It will be made
public soon after. It is understood1
it will be brief, informing Germany
that as long as the new instructions
to submarine commanders are ob
served, diplomatic relations will be
continued, but" that the United States
i cannot allow Germany to dictate its |
''negotiations with Great Britain.
CHICAGO PREPARING
FOR BIG CONVENTION
Coliseum There is Being Con
verted into a Convention
Hall by Carpenters.
(?V ASSOCIATED PRKSS)
CHICAGO. May 8.?Active prepara
tions for the opening of the Republican
national convention here on June 7
were started Monday when carpenters
began the transformation of the col
iseum Into a convention hall. William
F. Stone, of Baltimore, sergeant-at
arms of the convention, is already here
to take active charge of the prepara
tions. Other convention officials aie
cxpected to arrive here the latter part
of the week or early next week.
According to present plans the full
national committee will meet June 2
to make up the temporary roll of the
convention, it was said' Monday. So
far only eight contests have been filed
as against 23R four years ago, so it is
expected that hearing of claims on
^contests will be quickly disposed ot
BUYING 11AW MATTIUAL.
(BY ABSOCIATIO PX(tC)
BUCHAREST, Rumania. May 8?
The Rumanian central committee of
Importation has sent special commis
sions to Russia, Switzerland and Hol
land to make purchases of raw ma
terials for industry and merchandise
for commerce. Arrangements has al
ready been made with Germany for
the importation of $30,000,000 worth
of German goods and the establish
ment in Berlin of a special bureau to
receive and execute Rumanian or
ders.
BARK SUNK.
f?Y ASSOCIATED Mll?
LONDON, May 8.?The French
bark Marie Mollnos was sunk by a
submarine on May 3. All the eigh
teen members of Its crew have been
landed.
i In the Shops of the Westing
house Airbrake Company
in City of Pittsburg.
(?V ASSOCIATED PlttSSI
PITTSBURG, May 8.?Four thous
; and of the 4,500 employes of the
Westinghouse Aid Brake Company
I entered the shops for work Monday
I morning under the guard of two com
panies of soldiers. No strike was de
clared at this plant' which was closed
i more than a week ago by the man
agement after It had been attacked
j by the Westinghouse Electric and
Manufacturing Company strikers. A
! few men entered the electric plant
where all employes are being paid
Monday .
Effort's to settle the strike contin
ue, President E. M. Herr, of the
clectrtc company having agreed to the
strikers' proposition that they name
Ave men and he name five to confer
with him on the points at issue.
HOT GUILTY
Of Participating in Marble
Theft Are Alvin Davis and
Dale Nutter.
A complex situation arising from
'the theft of a large number of mar
bles from the Akro Agate Compnay's
i plant last Tuesday night caused at
j least two boys in the Monticello
I neighborhood to be placed in rather
a bad light. Later developments
showed their innocence. It. appear
: that Alvin Davis, son of Mingo Da
j vis, and Dale Nutter, son of Thomas
S. Nutter, were guilty of no wrong
i doing, as they merely, with other
| boys, saw where another boy had hid
den marbles and they went to the
place of hiding and helped them
selves with no knowledge that the
marbles had been stolen. The cor
rection is made in justice to these
two boys.
Is Declared by Hundreds of
Women in the Jewish Quar
ter on Bakeries.
<?Y ASSOCIATED PRKSS)
PITTSBURG, May 8.?'Hundreds of:
women in the Jewish quarter Monday
declared a boycott on bakeries and
stationed pickets at many shops be
cause of an advance in the price of
bread made known when they made
their daily purchases. Master bakers j
declared that the advance was due to j
a new scale enforced by union bakers
and providing for a seven and one- j
half hour day during the week and j
six hours on Sunday. The master bak-1
ers called a meeting for tonight with
the union officers in the hope of secur-1
ing a modification of the scale.
.NEXT CONFERENCE.
(?V AMOCIATID pniat)
EL PASO, May 8.?General Obregon
minister of the defacto government,
announced that the next conference
with Generals Scott and Funaton
would be held at noon Monday.
RUSSIAN on,.
'?V ABtOCtATtD pnian
PETROGRAD, May 8. ? The pe
troleum output of Russia for 1915
was 9,152,000 tons, against 8,912,
000 for 1914.
PIGOTT EFFICIENT
IN PUBLIC SER VICE
ERNEST L. PIGOTT
Errest L PiRrtt, of Shlnnston. former county assessor and stalwart Re
publican. Is m.akiin: an active and aggressive campaign in behalf of his can
didacy for nominrtlon for shcilff on the Republican ticket at the primary
election Tuesday, June G, and those familiar with the work that has beon
done and Is beini; done by blm and his frlonds (Irmly bellevo that the people
of the county will entrust the duties of this responsible office to him, a man
fit by experience as well as ability to conduct the office of Bherlff in a ca
pable and impartial manner and free from Influences that Fometimos bring
such an office Into public disfavor. He has shown himself to be an executive
of extraordinary ability and th's Is advanced by bis friends as one of the
many strong points In his candidacy. Thoy know he ha* made good In
everything lio hrs undertaken nnd they feel that to be sufficient guarantee
*hat he will make good as sheriff, if nominated and elected, and they say
his nomination assuiedlv means his election, thus placing him In the position
of a most desirable candidate as he will win a victory for not only himself
but help to win It for all on the ticket.
Ernest L. Plgo." was horn in Clay district, Harrison county, but at an
early ag.1 he moved with his parents to a farm near the village of Peora,'
where he res'de* jintil he war e'ected personal property assessor in 1904
when he mov.d to Fhlnnston. Mr. Plgott was fortunate In his ancestry,
being the son of Col. Elam F. Plgott, now deceased, who was a thorough
business man a gallant soldier w'io served his country through the war of
the rebellion as a lieutenant In Company G, Twelfth regiment of West Vir
ginia Infantry ard participated in every battle In which his regiment was
engaged. Ernest P!pott's mother was a daughter of John W. Boggess, now
deceased, who was universally tecognlzed as one of the most learned and
upright Justices of *he peace that Harrison county produced during his day.
Mr. Plgott embodies in a marked degree the qualities of bis ancestors, name
ly, thorough business qualification, a judicial mind, courage to do right,
courtesy In his intercourse and true friendship.
Mr. Plgot' lived and labored on a farm all his life until elected assessor
of the lower district in 1904. Upon his election to that offlco he at once
entered upon the difficult task of inaugurating the then new and improved
system of assessment and taxation, and while he had no precedents to guide
him, he gave universal satisfaction to the taxpayers of hlB district, and the
new office of one assessor for the county with the duty of re-valuing all the
personal property iuid real estate yearly, to which he was elected in 1908,
was one of the molt Important ofll'es of the county. He brought that office
to a high state of efficiency.
Thus as a pub'le official, as is readily seen and very widely known Mr.
Plgott's one great strong fort is not only to measure up to every responsi
bility, every perplex'ng situation, but also to take the Initiative in advancing
und developing the efficiency of public service. He has been weighed in
the balance and not found wap::ng. and his friends present him to the vot
ers of the countv as a man most deserving of their suffrage oil primary day,
June 6, when his name will appear on the Republican ticket as a candidate
for nomination for sheriff of tho county. They respectfully ask that tha man
and his methods be thoroughly studied and point to hi* proud record as a
public official a? a proper appeal tu voters.
FURIOUS GERMAN
ATTACKS BROKEN
After Seventy-Seven Days of
Battle Germans Are Mak
ing a New Attack.
VERY FORMIDABLE ARMY
Principal Effort of the Germans
is against Dead Man Hill
near Verdun.
? ... r.....
PARIS, May 8.?Fighting of great I
violence continued Sunday night on I
the Verdun front. Furious German |
attacks near bill 304 were broken by (
the French, the war ofllce announced
Monday.
After aeventy-sovrn days of battle'
the Germans aro making a new attack'
before Verdun with another formidable
army. Fighting almost equal in viol
ence to that of the beginning of
March 1h in progrestt on both banks
of the Meuso. 0
The principal efTort of the Germans
is being directed against Dead Man
bill. Following the Napoleonic policy
of attempting to turn what cannot be
carried by frontal attacks, the Ger
mans with a whole army corps made
the ussault by way of the ravine be
tween bill 304 and Dead Man hill, seek
ing to crush In the French line along
a front of one and one-half miles. The
ground there Is favorable for attack
and the French commander, aware of
the weakness of the position, placed
one of his best trained army corps at
that place. This corps disposed of the
initial attack without ceding any im
portant ground but the battle Ib still
raging and according to the latest
advices the result will not be known
until some time today.
East of the Mouse the Germans de
livered four attacks on a front of 2,000
yards each advance being made by a
different Prussian regiment. Tho
fighting there is as fierce as on the
other side of the river and as incon
clusive.
EMPEROR ASKS POPE TO
CONSTRUCT PEACE PLAN
tmr aiiociatio .Hi*.i
LONDON, May 8.?Prince von Kue
low, former German Imperial chan
cellor, has been summoned to head
quarters by Emperor William, accord
ing to a despatch to the Exchange
Telegraph Company from Tho Hague.
His visit, adds the despatch, Is Bald
to he of great political slgnlflcance.
The correspondent at Rotterdam of
the Exchange Telegraph Company
cablos the following:
"On the occasion of the Easter fes
tival Emperor William sent an auto
graph letter to Pope Benedict express
ing tho hope that the pontiff with the
king of Spain would be able 'to con
struct a scheme will] tho object of
bringing togctlicr under tho, ausplc
Ioiib emblem of the ilovo nn'd olive
branch a conferenco of boillgeronta
for consideration of nn immediate ar
mistice in the fervent hopo of socuring
an early poace without detriment to
the legitimate aspirations of nationali
ties.' "
The correspondent snys he obtained
this Information from 11 circular JuBt
Issued by the Herman Humanity Lea
gue. Tho circular also says consider
able significance Is attached to tho
arrival In Home of envoys from tho
kings of Bavaria and Saxony, who had
prolonged audiences with Cardinal
I Oasparrl, papal secretary of state.
Causes Death of Mrs. Jane
Bender, Mother of Mrs.
H. J. Davis.
Mrs. .lane Bender, aged 83 years,
of Salem, O., died at 4 o'clock Sunday
afternoon nt the home of Walter
Drenan, Fourth street, Olen Elk. fol
lowing a short illness of pneumonia.
Funeral services will be held at 8
o'clock at the Drenan homo and the
body will be taken to Salem, O,,
Tuesday and the flnal funeral servic
es and burial will be hold there on
Wednesday.
Surviving relatives of the deceased
woman are. W. I. Casner, of Walla
Walla. Wash.; Lewis Casner, of Chi
cago, III., sons, and Mrs. Joel Cobb,
and Mrs. F. J. Davis, of Adamston,
daughters. Mrs. Davis Is the wife of
tho Itov. F. J. Davis, pastor ot the
Wesleyai Methodist church of Indus
trial and NorChvlew.
Mrs. Bender was a devout christian
woman, she was a lifelong member of
the Weeleyan Methodist church.
While In this city she made many
friends who were pained to hear of
her death.
BEGINS WORK.
(?V ABBOCIATSO PftffS)
WASHINGTON, May 8?William
Inghram, of Portland, Me., Monday
took up his duties as assistant secre
tary of war, succeeding Henry Breck
inridge, resigned.
MUST CONTRIBUTE.
PEKING, May 8.?All government
employees whose salary exceeds $100
Mexican, a month, are to be required
to subscribe a certain percentage of
their pay to the domestic loan for
this year.
FORMER RRSIDENT
DIES IN PITTSBURG
Where As a Lawyer and Busi
I ness Man He Was Prominent
Twenty-Seven Years.
The body of Oeorge Calvert Lewis,
aged 55 years, a former resident.of
this city but who had resided In
Pittsburg for the last twenty-seven
| years, who died at 7 o'clock Sunday
morning In a Plttaburg hospital fol->
lowing a three weeks' UlnesB of pneu
monla, accompanied by his widow,
Mrs. Frances Paul Lewis, and his sis
ter, Mrs. J. Moore Jackson, and her
dt ughter, Miss Florence, arrived here
Monday morning and was taken to
the home of his sister on West Pike
street, where it will lie In state until
the hour of the funeral services Tues
day.
The funeral services will be held
M 11:30 o'clock Tuesday morning at
the Jackson home. The Rev. Charles
Balrd Mitchell, rector of the Christ
Episcopal church will have charge of
tho services and the Interment will be
private In the Odd Fellows cemetery.
Mr. Lewis was a son of the late
Judge Charles S. and Maria Lewis
and was born In this city October 6,
1861. He was a graduate of the
West Virginia University and of the
law department of the University of
Virginia. After finishing his school.
Ing Mr. Lewis went to Pittsburg
where he devoted his time to his pro
fession and was a very successful
lawyer. In 1902 Mr. Lewis and Miss
Frances Paul Rogers were married
in Pittsburg. He was a past master
of the Hallen Masonic lodge of Pitts
burg.
Surviving relatives of the deceased
man are Mrs. Frances Paul Lewis, his
widow; and Mrs. T. Moore Jackson,
a sister.
