3
BARHE. - DAI LY
VOL. XX NO. 46.
BARItK, VERMONT, MONDAY, MAV 8, 191G.
PHICE, ONE CENT.
THE
TIMES
DESPERATE NEW
ASSAULT MADE
BEFORE VERDUN
DISLOYALISTS ARE
CLEANED OUT
British Government is Driving Out of
Government Service in Ireland
Those Found to Be Hostile.
Dublin, May 8. The government is
making h rigorous examination, into nil
local departments with the object of
purging them of rebel. The Sinn Fein
WARNED
TO KEEP
MANY ACCIDENTS IN RUTLAND.
insurrection revealed that mny brunehos
OUier rOrxniaaDie with disloyalty. The investigation ha
. -iv LI A "''
UermanS iiave UrOUgm, AII- 0f the government service, particularly
the postofllce, have been honeycombed
. , j . rr..;., thus far uncovered the case of a nigh
into Play and Are lrying Ltoni.. 0,ricia w iy(K n house
used as a rebel arsenal. A large maga
zine of explosives, arms and ammunition
was discovered in the house.
London, May H.Sir Roger Casement,
who was arrested on the west coast of
Ireland after landing from a German
I ship with the intention of leading the
Sinn Fein revolt, will probably be given
a preliminary hearing Wednesday, when
he will be formally charged with high
treason and remanded to a trial before a
lord chief justice and jury.
to Crush the French Line
Lying Between Hill 304
and Dead Man's Hill, as
Chief Object
FAITH
LAST NIGHT'S ATTACKS
WERE TURNED BACK
COUNTESS' LIFE SPARED.
Picked French Troops Have
Been Sent to Meet the In
Officially Reports That No --eS
Important Ground Was
Lost
Irish Rebel is Sentenced to Penal Servi
tude for Life.
Dublin, May 8, via 1ondon.- -Countess
Georgina Markieviczg, one of the promi
nent figures in the Irish revolt, was scn-
U Tn-Pnfi teneed to death after her trial by court
ltial Charge of the Iniun- mRrtiftl but the gente,e WM commuted
ofe1 riovonc! and Pom's ' Pal servitude for life, it was offi
atcu ucuuaiw, cw cialy announced yesterday afternoon
aura
term.
Death sentences imposed upon Georg
Plunkett and John Plunkett, brothers of
Joseph Plunkctt who was executed laet
week, have been commuted to ten years
penal servitude
The official statement announcing the
u .1 1 1 f a 1 1 ...i ..til mini nnin inn t urn HavB
rans, May a.-Aiter i i nays of Dame .,Th foJIowinif furtller regut8 of trial
the Germans are making a new attack I by the field general court martial are
before Verdun with another formidable announced
. .... . I .-A, ,in.i T i". A ia li li.it rtninmtifail to
opmv ' ho tiirhtinor in fl Ulnar, eilllfll in I -...i.7 w uu tv ....
...... ...0 . ) ..-..;t,j (,.r lit- v.,. tV,o flol.l off..
violence to that of the beginning of , . . . cunt(.sf. Oeorc-ina Markie-
Maroti is in progress on uotu Danxa or v,rz arui Henry OHanrahan.
the Meuse. The principal German effort "Sentenced to death but commuted to
is directed asainst Dead Man's Hill. ten year8' Fnal wvitude, George Plunk
A whole army corps assaulted by way
of a ravine between Hill Ao. 304 and
.l'.J1"1' t!ki"5 .V!?11 nt STATE C. 0. F. 3IEETING
attack was received by trained French
corps, who were disposed for the initial
attack, without ceding any important
ground, but the battle is still raging, ae
cording to the latest advices.
The French war office announced to
day that violent fighting continued last
iiieht and that fierce German attacks
near Hill No. 304 were broken.
French Lost Underground Passage,
The French official statement issued
President Wilson's Note to
Berlin Following German
Declaration of Willingness
to Live Up to Internation
al Rules of Warfare Is
Said to Hold Threat of a
Break in Diplomatic Rela
tions
GERMANY ALSO TOLD
DICTATION DISPLEASES
ett and John riunkett."
OPENS IN ST. ALBANS
Large Class Is Expected to Receive the
Third Degree To-night Banquet
Will Be Served This Even
ing Also.
St. Albans, May 8. The 17th annual
convention of the Vermont state council,
last nicht told of German succcbs cast Knights of Columbus, opened at St
f Hill No. 304. The statement reads: Mary's hall in this city yesterday after -
"On the left bank of the Meuse a bom- noon, when St. Albans council,. No. Zvl,
bardmcnt of extreme violence, which conferred tne first degree on z.i canui-
,;v, o-.f ; f.- tain ,! va dates and the second decree upon ol.
jnSbCU nilrilUUb mrowwiuH l"l vmm . - . . ....
in the region of Hill 304, was followed Tins evening the third degree will be con-to-day
by a powerful German attack de- fen-ed on the class of Sunday and others
iivered against our front between
Hiit
304 and Le Mort Homme. The enemy,
after repeated efTorts, penetrated the un
derground passageways east of Hill 304.
Everywhere else he was repulsed with
serious losses inflicted by our machine
guns and batteries, which energetically
bombarded the German lines.
"On the right bank, after intense ar
tillery preparation the Germans deliv
ered several successful attacks against
our trenches between Haudremont wood
and Fort Douauniont. In the western
part of the front the enemy attack
gained a footing for an extent of about
500 meters in our first line. To the cen
ter and to the east all the attacks were
broken.
"In the VVoevre there was great ar
tillery activity in t'he sectors at the foot
of the Meuse hills
throughout the state, making 70 alto
gether. The speakers at the banquet will
include state officers, other prominent
Knights of Columbus and members of the
clergy.
Thirty delegwtes from the 12 councils
of the state are expected to be in the city
to-morrow, and the total registration of
Knights is expected to reach nearly 300.
State officers already here or expected
are: C. F. Mann of Brattleboro, state
deputy; A. C. Moore of Barre, treasurer;
d. .1. Juilcahy of Hardwick, advocate;
John f . Smith of Rutland, warden
The United States Is Pre
pared to Go About Its Ne
gotiations with Great Brit
ain Without Any Sugges
tions Wilson Not Satis
fied with Conditions
German Promise
in
Washington, D. C, May 8. A new note
to Germany is practically completed and
will probably be forwarded to Berlin to
day. It is understood to be brief, in
forming Germany that as long as the
new submarine instructions arc observed
diplomatic relations will continue but
that the United States cannot allow
Germany to dictate its negotiations with
Great Britain.
President Wilson worked on the com
munication early to-day following a con
ference with Secretary of .State Lansing.
While the German note has averted for
the present at least a diplomatic break
the president is not satisfied with the ap
parent conditions attached. .Some of the
president's advisers desired him to make
no reply.
Together with One Alleged Poisoning
from Candy.
Kutland, May S. -Rutland had an un
usual list of accidents Saturday ami
Sunday, one of the victims, Arthur Shaw
of Brandon, being in the Kutland hospi
tal where he' is being treated for a com
pound fracture of the right leg, the re
sult of being thrown from a gHsoline
propelled section car on the Rutland rail
road. John Taylor of Wales street is
nursing severe bruises received when he
was knocked down at the corner of Weft
street ami Merchant row.
Three young children of Charles Alex
ander of West street and Henry Brow
of number 14'fc Fine street are Blowly
recovering from an acute poisoning case
in which it is supposed the trouble came
directly from stick candy, and I). A. Bar
ker of this city is busy trying to find
the names of some young men who were
in an automobile which crashed into a
wagon owned by the local liveryman
and then speeded up to avoid recognition.
J7ie accident to Mr. Miaw happened at
o'clock Sunday afternoon. Mr. Shaw,
who is a member of the railroad bridge
gang, and another member of this de
partment were on a motor-driven atrial!
car, when it ran into a closed switch
Shaw was throw from his seat in front
of the car and he was dragged for some
little distance. He ttaa removed to the
Rutland hospital.
Saturday afumoon two children of
(. harles Alexander and one young son of
Henry Brow Of Fine street, went to a
local creamery where they"purchased
some stick candy. A'ter they had re
turned home all were taken suddenly
II. Ur. John iJ. Hanrahun was sum
moned and he called in Health Ollieer
F. 11. Gebhardt. The phvsicians worked
over the youngsters tor some time lie-
ore thev were out Of danger. Io-uay
their condition is ntuch improved and
is expected that ithev will recover
Health Officer Gebhardt took sample of
the candy and milk Which will be sent
to the state laboratory for examination.
An automobile ' bearing -a Burlington
garage number sinflstien into a livery
carriage owned by Mr. Barker on North
Main street in front tf the Haird home
about 8 o'clock Saturday night, the wag
on being badly broken, but neither of the
occupants injured. The machine which
contained several young men did not
top, but put on more speed and drove
away.
GET VILLA
ORDER IS
EFFECT
IN
Smashing the door, the, troopers broke
for the open firing a they ran. Two
were shot and killed as they fled. One
is missing and it is lielicved he is dead
Another was killed as he tried to climb
through, a window.
According to the story brought hero
tho Mexican bandits first, attacked a
store and one or two houses in Boquil
las where they made Deemer and romp-
ton prisoners and then sped I.i miles
northward to make their attack on (ileun
Springs which is fringed by rugged hills.
At Glenn Springs they wrecked a wax
factory lelinging,tn William Ellis, his
store and residence besides one or two
other Rmall buildings.
WAS NATIVE OF CANADA.
FLORAL TRIBUTES NUMEROUS
Bancroft
FRENCH BARK SUNK.
All the Crew of the Marie Molines Were
Saved and Landed.
London, May 8. The French bark Ma
rie Molines has been sunk by a subma
rine. All her crew were landed.
CHASED FOR HOURS.
Steamship Venezia Managed to Escape
and Reached New York.
New York, May 8. The steamship
V enezia. arriving here vestcrdav from
. . i l I . ' "
inere was no evens oi importance on Bordeaux. Franca, with 40 Amor can c. t-
the rest of the front .except the usual izens aboard, was fired upon and chased
cannonading."
AUSTRIA NOT BUSY.
Official Report Saya Russia and Italy
Are Not Fighting. .
Berlin. Mar 8. There is little activity
on the Ruseian and Italian fronts and the
situation is unchanged, the Austrian offi
cial statement of May 7 reports.
27 CIVILIANS KILLED.
By Artillery of Germany's Enemy it Bel'
giura and France.
Berlin, via wireless, May 8. Eight
men. ten women and nine children, all
rivtlians, were kilM during April in the
occupied portions of Belgium and France
by artillery and aeroplanes of the ene
my, the Overseas News agency says
Twenty-three men, 29 women and 23
children were wounded. The total civ
ilian victims since September, 1915, were
1.313.
KAISER SUMMONED
PRINCE VON BUELOW
Former Chancellor's Visit to Headquar
ters Is Said To Be of Great Po
litical Significance.
lnndnn. May 8. Prince Von Buelow,
the former (iernian imperial chancellor,
has been summoned to headquarters by
the emperor, according to a Hague dis
patch. The visit is said to be of great
political significance.
NEARLY CUT IN TWO.
Skidding Auto Killed Mrs. Hamet Ma
honey of Bradford, Mass.
for several hours by two commercial
raiders while off the Azores, according
to a story related when the vessel docked.
Reports had been in circulation for more
than a week that at least one sea raid
er was again operating in the western
Atlantic and the news brought by the
Venezia caused alarm in shipping circles.
The Americans on board, who were em
ployed in caring for horses transported
on the Venezia's last voyage eastward,
vouched for the accuracy of the story.
According to these men, the Venezia
encountered the commerce raiders April
28, when three days out from Bordeaux.
The hostile craft, they said loomed up
without any flag showing and bore dow n
upon the Vene.ia. Captain Boniface at
once became suspicious and prepared for
a sudden dash. The raiders Mgiiailed to
the Venezia to slow down, but 1'aptuin
Boniface's answer wa( an order for full
speed ahead.
As the enezia started to bear awav.
according to the story told, a shot paused
over her. This was followed by another.
which dropped oloee to tiie enezia. Be
fore a third shot was fired, the enezia
had increased the distance between h r
and the raiders so that the effort to
overhaul her proved unsuccessful.
The destroyer, it lvas said, pursued t he
Venezia, but the French steamship left
them far behind, not sighting nor hear
ing fmni the raiders on the remainder of
the voyage.
GERARD DEEPLY INCENSED.
At Anti-German Stories About Him Told
in Germany.
Amsterdam, via IndVn, May 8. In an
Interview with American Ambassador
.Fames W. (ierard. aa published by the
Xeues Wiener Journal (Vienna) the am
bassador said:
"It has been said of me lately, with
out a semblance of proof, that I have
encouraged my government to go to, war,
that I said the German government could
make as many concessions as it wished,
but war was inevitable, because I wished
it. Thev have said I owned a munition!
factory in America and therefore was
financially interested in war.
'In an effort to malign me they even
wrote to the crown princess that my wife
had decorated her dog with the orders
the kaiser had conferred on her and that
she had taken the dog thus bedecked for
walk in I nter Den Linden.
"1 am exceedingly incensed at these
maliciously false stories, which nave
gained wide circulation even in respon
sible circles in Berlin. I appeal frcm
tht-ie ba.-se falsehoods to the leaders of I
the flerman government.
Thev know that I have alwavs done
everything to maintain peace between
Germany and America."
AUT0IST NOT HELD.
BURIAL AT HOPE CEMETERY.
Many Friends Attended Services for
Emelio Giacobbi.
The funeral of Knxlin Giacobbi. aged
zu, w no-ip oeain ocenrrea at. i ne nome or nd Mrs T)
hi-) sister. Mr. R. Broggini, !. Pleasant j ani fr f; j
iireei, v euncsnay auemoon, was iiem
at thehone Saturday afternoon at 2
o'clock.
At Funeral of Late Mrs. F, C,
on Sunday.
Hie funeral of the late Mrs. F. C. Ban
eroft was held at her late home on the
east hill Sunday afternoon. A large
number of relatives and friends gathered
to pay their last respects. Kev. J. B.
Reardon of the I ni vcrsalist church spoke
words of comfort, to the .bereaved ones
and the profusion of beautiful flowers
bore silent testimonial .of . the high es
teem in which the deceased was held.
The interment was in the family lot at
Kim wood cemetery.- ...
Among those from out of town whoj
attended were Mr. and -Mrs. C. B, et
calf of Burlington, Mr. Bnd Mrs. W. W.
ITolden mtfi Mr. and Mrs. B. .V Dennv of
Northfield, "Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Townsemf
and Mr. and Mrs. K. J, Bartlctt of Flain
field. Mr. and Mrs. M. W. Hyland of
Washington, George W. Lynde of Wil
lramstow n. darenee Haskins and the
Messrs, Townsend of Montpelier.
The following i a list, of the floral
tributes: Frank Bancroft and son, a
standing star; Mr. Winter and son, a
standing heart; Cobble . Hill grange, a
standing wreath; officers of Cobble Hill
'grange, pillow; Williamstow n grange.
carnations; ( abot grange, roses; Mr. and
Mrs. Klmer Owen. Mr. and Mrs. Luther
Nelson, Mr. and Mrs. Bert Davis, Mr. and
Mrs. I. M. Carr, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Peake, Mr. and Mrs. George Whcaton.
Mr. and Mrs. Austin Sanders. Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Covey, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence
Tr.iev. Mr. and Mrs. William Ritchie.
Mrs. Lillian Sowdrn and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Ionis Hutchinson and son, Mr.
and Mrs. .1. F. Veino and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. William Hutchinson. Mr. and
Mrs. A. W. Clark. Mr. and Mrs. M. F.
Chirk, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hutchinson,
Mr. and Mrs. H, J. Csrr. F. P. Gale, Mr.
and Mrs. K. Ritchie. Mr. and Mrs. C. Car
penter. Mr. and Mrs. P. O. Wheaton, Mr.
and Mrs. Baker. Mr. and Mrs. Beede. Mr.
and Mrs. Grant. Mr. and Mrs. Janieson.
Mr. anil Mrs. Bradbury, Mr. and Mrs. W.
Patch, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Owens. 4"
white ro.-es.
Mr. and Mrs. B. F. Bailey. Orange
Cove. Cnl.. white roses; Mr. and Mrs. W.
If. Ga 'e. Georce W; I.vnde. Or. and Mr.
F. M. I.vnde. Mrs. I.izie A. Robinson and
Mr. and M'-. K. T. Mower, roses and car
nations; Dr. and Mrs. K. H. Bancroft.
pink and w hite roses; "Mr. and Mrs. C.
M. Serilmcr. Mr. and Mrs. Lowell Me
Leod, roes and carnations; C. C. Varney
and Mr. and Mrs. Wesley. Hoffman, jon
quils; cktss of 1017. Goddard seminary,
pink ami white carnations; Mr. and Mrs.
M. W. Ilvland, mixed flowers; Mr. and
Mrs. A. f. Snifth and Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
Smith, pink and white carnations; Mr.
and Mr. Frank Trow, white roses; Mr.
and Mrs. A. S. Park hurst, jonquils: Ms.
C. Holeii. rarnations; Mr.
. Hutchinson, roses and mr-
United States Aroused by a Mrs- h Myyie 1,4858,5 Aw4 in
i juai ic a net idling iiincss.
second Raid on American
Territory in the " Big
Bend " Country, Will Set
Aside Any Tentative
Agreement with Carranza
and Will Seek the Bandit
SEC. BAKER DECLARES
OLD PLAN IN FORCE
The death of Mrs. Joseph Mavville oc
curred at her home on Branch street
Sunday morning at 1) o'clock, the end fol
lowing an illness of long duration, al
though the deceaaed had been confined
to the house only three weeks. Besides
her son, Joseph Mayville, with whom she
resided, she leaves two sons, Wallace
Mayville, who lives on Berlin street, this
city, and Fred Ero of East Barre. Her
sister is a resident of I'latteburg, N. Y.
31 rs. jwayviiie was a native or Canada
and was 74 years old.
Jt is expected that the funeral will be
icld in St. Monica's church Tuesday
morning at B o clock. The parish priest
Rev. P. M. McKenna. will officiate and
interment will lie made in the Catholi
cemetery on Beekley street.
A BEAUTIFUL
SERVICE HELD
May Procession and Crown
ing Was Observed ' 1 St
Monica's CK
150 YOU v PEOPLE
WEr Participants
An Appropriate Sermon Was
Preached by Rev. Fr.
P. M. McKenna
General Funston Will Take
Any Steps Necessary, Says
HEADED FOR INTERIOR.
Glenn
Fleeing
Baker, to Pursue the Band
:pnngs Bandits are
Through Wild Passes.
Alpine, Texas, Mav 8. Tho bandits
who raided Glenn Springs are believed
That Committed 3Iurder t0 "ein? through the wild passes of
nortnern Loanuua headed tor the in
nnrl Arenn anrl Thfn Vlpn terior,
into a Wild Section of
Mexico
FORMER GODDARD STEWARD.
Carlton K. Kinne Died at Dauehter'.
Home in Newton Highlands, Mass.
t anton K. twnne, for sixteen year
stew-ard at Goddard seminary while .Mrs,
Washington, D. C, May 8. Secretary Kinne was matron at the same institu-
of War Baker to-day stated the war de- tion, died of pneumonia Friday morning
partment considers the agreement under at the home of his daughter, Mrs. Krneat
which the' army began the Villa pursuit :. Haocood. in Newton Hi
siiu operaiing ana mat unuer us terms where he and his wile had been spend
General unston will take any necessary ip the winter. Mr. Kinne had not been
steps to pursue the band which on Fri- feeling well for several weeks and de-
day raided the Big Bend country, with- elined ranidlv when imonmnmi set. in.
OUt Iliriner instructions. Mr Kit.no was I,,. in 1nnmo V If
A A ! 1 - 1 I ' " '
V" 'ocmckii expeuuion may oe and spent his early life in that town. He
ready across the border pursuing the
bandits. Secretary Baker said he had re
ceived a report from General Funston
regarding steps to be taken but he de
iinea to reveal its contents, there are
no details of the raid at the department
Secretary of State liansingdias for
warded a report to the Mexican de facto
government calling attention to the lat
est bandit activities. It is believed to be
possible that Rome method of direct co
and Mrs. Kinne resided in Woodsville
for many years, coming from that town
to Baire in 189S to enter upon their
duties at the seminary. Both gave faith
ful and efficient service at the school
and they made many friends there and
among the townspeople. They resigned
in 1913 and since then liave been spend
ing much of the time at the homes of
their daughters in MaseinisMts.
Mr. Kinne was a member of the L'ni-
nrnimiinn fric tlm .vlitrmtiiatiin 4 liA
raiders may 1 arranged to-dav at the versalist chnrch and he was one of the
border conference. leaders of the movement whieh resulted
in the founding of a church of that de
nomination in Woodsville, Mrs. Kinne
being also prominent in the ladies' or
ganizations connected with that society.
Besides his wife, Mr. Kinne leaves two
daughters, Mrs. K. G. Hapgood of Xew
Punitive Expedition Has Suffered Only ton Highlands, Mass., and Mrs. John Tar
123 BANDITS SLAIN;
OVER 200 WOUNDED
Six Fatalities Since It Entered Mex
ico Not One American Officer
Was Lost.
Columbus. X. M., May 8. The punitive
expedition to date has accounted for
about 12.5 Villa bandits slain and be
tween 200 and SW wounded. The Amer
icans lost six killed, making a ratio of
20 bandits for every American life lost.
Not one American officer was lost, but
six Villa leaders were killed.
ment of Foxboro, Mass., both of whom
are graduates of Goddard seminar-.
l he body of Mr. Kinne was brought
I to Woodsville to-day and there a short
service was held at the grave. Princi
pal 0. K. Hollister of (ioddard seminary
went to oodsville to attend the service.
EARLY SCOTCHMAN IN BARRE.
William D. Stephen Died Sunday At the
Age of 61.
William D. Stephen, one of Barre 's old-
MORE TROOPS NEEDED eSt S-0,s""'n' Ps"d away at his home,
tory .mpje aenue, ;Miniay morning hi
FOR BORDER PATROL -: 15 oVlwk' the ""' ""g
ness i lour moonlit mil a tion. i ut lie-
Army Officers at San Antonio Hope the
Government Will Take Immediate
Steps to Strengthen Funston.
San Antonio, Tex., May S. Army oil;
cers here hope the Glenn Springs rind
will arouse the war department to the
need of more troops for a border pat
rol. t.enerai funston asked tor more
troops to take the place of men sent to
strenthen Pershing, but his request was
not granted.
NINE U. S. TROOPERS
FOUGHT 70 MEXICANS
j nation; I,. F. Sanlxirn, carnations; AW
If. I li m nunrrs on rn a t inn f a a ...I f..
Thorp a larcc MtWrinjf of ! Iaro, t:4u-' : ' mj, f
. . , , . . - iAf -" iim, m ii.ii inns, mauvii in-
menus ana oepmauon .rom ,,,e .uumn , kins M whi,p
siHiety Mntuo Sucorso. to which the de-I ! . ,. ... .,-.
1 l - I I . .1 a. I. : l . : " -1 .' . win. ' 1 ' I mil. 1 " " "
rra irmnS, nini n rsnni mi.;,..j mr,j f.,;,. ,-rnu,;.. m. .,.1
i I lie nociv H lieinp rfminni 10 mr lain
I.. . ti. i
Evidence of Negligence in Burlington
Street Fatality Not Sufficient.
Burlington, May 8.-Frank K. Austin,
who was in city curt Saturday after,
noon to answer to the charge of negli
gently driving his rar at the time Harry
Delorme was struck, resulting in the
child's death, was discharged, iMinVitiit
it a 1. : i . .i .
Salem, Mass., Mav 8.-An automobile " . . t " ' , , .
j, ' : . !, .iijjj :. that at the time the mr stnu k the child
Mr. Austin was running in neb",iit
ilv lot at Hope cemeterv. The henrer
were: Buy Mcl'hinald. .lohn Mclfcnald.
Atnelio (Jaritvddi. -1. falderara. W. Si
monelli nij .lohn Parniirmi.
Floral tributes included the following:
t arnations. Mr. and Mrs. Louis Nicora,
( asahella fmilv. Mrs. (i. ltti and fam
Mrs. K. A. Withsm. white carnation":
Mr. and Mrs. I). M. Cutler, carnations;
Mr. and Mrs. Frank d. H"land. carna
tions; Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Sargent, roses;
Mr. and Mr. A. L. Belhille. carnntins;
Chester H. Reck ley. yellow- daffodils:
Mr. Clinton Bosett. daffodils; Mr. and
. ii s r iirrai r Kis.nri nan sy-i i in . l
iljr. Mrs. A. Rott gi i and Imi. Mr. and j, s Mk ' Mnhu; j,r; nH
Mr. .Joseph (omolli and Ebo, Mr. and Mr. n lr1m.. :.!.. , ,
r. Kosi and family. I. .Maino. Mr.
carnation.
seeding in a heavy shower, skidded into
a ditch and overturned on the turnpike
near here last night, crashing to death
one of the ceupants. Mrs. Harriet Ma
honey of Bradford, XIm, and injuring
thre others. Mrs. Ma honey, who was 21
vears old, was caught in urh a way that
her body was rut nearly in two.
Her sister, Mrs. Margaret Gaudin of
Haverhill, Ma Frank Donovan of Law.
rence, who owned and operated the ma
chine, and lank Gordon, also of Law
rence, received many cuts and bruise.
They are expected to recover.
IinOTn as taken into custody and
held in bonds of tl-W"1. which were fur-
Bisfeed.
manner or driving at hih r.. Tl
case was proeruted by ."tate Aftomej
Hopkins and M. fi. Iary. .1. .1. Knngit
and R. E. Brown appearing for Mr. Au
tin. F. H. Crsndall. who tn.k nnssi.ie
ments at the scene of the accident, was
the first witness called by the i-latc. )i.
R. H. Stone, who prf-rmel an aut.-r-s;
on the bcidy, testified as to the c'ise of
death, which iw a bemrrhire bieeimif
Into a ravity of the train. Ir. More
gav it aa hi opinion that this. injury
to the brain wa ciiim by in;erM ( re
wr on the skuH, which w eio frac
t'.r-L
Trapped in Adobe House They Returned
the Fire Until Roof Was Fired;
Then They Ran for Safety.
Alpine, Tex., May 8. Villa bandits,
some 70 in number, forded the Kin
Grande Friday night and sweeping 1.)
milea inland on American soil, raided
the little settlement of Glenn Springs
and attacked a detachment of Ameri
can cavalry consisting of nine men of
troop A, 14th cavalry.
Three tnoiiers and a little ten-Year-
old boy were killed, two cavalrymen were
wounded and another is missing, lie is
le!iee,l to be a prisoner of the lumdits
who are now lleeing southward into
CoahuilaT Mexico.
Two American eitiens, .f. llecnier and
a man named Compton. according to re
ports received here, were carried arrows
ceased was born in New Deer. Scotland,
61 vears aizo, the son of William and
! Elizabeth (.lack) Stephen. He emigrated
to America in 18.83 and after residing fVr
a year in Newport, he came to Barre in
1.8S4 and had resided here ever since. He
was married to Margaret Stewart of
Willianifctown in 190.
Mr. Stephen learned the graniteeid
ter's trade in the shed of McDonald fc
Buchan and followed the trade until a
few years ago, when ill health compelled
him to abandon that line of effort. For
two years. prior to his death he was em
ployed at the Smith. Whitcomb fc Cook
foundry on North Main street. He was
affiliated with the First Presbyterian
church and had a wide circle of friends
Mr. Stephen possessed a very pleasant
disiiosition and diiruur his illness tie was
patient sufferer.
Besides his w ife, he is survived by two
daughters, Miss Kluabeth A. Stephen, a
student in the senior clasa at Spaulding
high school, and Beatrice I Stephen, who
is employed in Montpelier. His brother,
.lames Stephen, resides in New Deer,
Scotland, and a nephew. Arthur U
teiihen. is in Brar.il.
The funeral will lie held at the holism
Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock and in
terment will be made in Ibpp cemetery.
The annual May celebration at St.
Monica's church was carried out in the
usual devotional manner this year, up
ward of 150 young people participating
in the festival at the church last even
ing. The altar and the shrine of the
blessed virgin were beautifully decorated
with a profusion of palms, natural flow
ers and flambeau lights. Exactly at 7:30
o'clock the procession, headed by the cross
bearer, Mario Sanguinetti, entered the
main door of the church, the acolytes and
altar boys following. The first division
of the sodality was led by the banner
bearer, Miss Teresa Bianchi, accompanied
by four tassel bearers and 21 little girls,
carrying garlands of pink and white
roses. 1 hey were followed by the second
banner bearer, Miss Rose Tomasi, w ho
was accompanied by four tassel bearers
and followed by 50 members of the junior
sodalitv. The third division was led by
Miss Jeannette Granger, carrying the
aspirants' banner. She was accompanied
by four tassel bearers and followed by
the 30 new members of the sodality.
Ihe fourth and senior division was led
by Miss Gertrude Brady, who carried the
banner of the immaculate conception, ac
companied by four tassel bearers, who
were followed by the president of the so
dality, Miss Nellie Sadlier. The senior
division wore the. regulation costume of
white, the veils being trimmed with smi
lax, and carried offerings of white and
pink carnations, which were to be used
n decorating the shrine.
Next came the May queen, Miss Flor
ence fioiiana, beautifully gownea in
white. She was accompanied by the
maids of honor. Miss Elizabeth White
and Miss Laura Granger. They were pre-
eded by little girls, carrying baskets of
natural flowers and accompanied bv the
little crown bearer, Miss Lucille Archam
bault, who carried the crown of white
roses used ht the coronation of the bles
sed virgin.
In processional order the various di
isions and their leaders marched around
the church, singing hymns to the virgin.
As the May queen reached the base of
the altar, the chorus sang, "Mary, We
Town and Bring Flowers the Barest.
Then took place the coronation by the
May queen and the decoration of shrine
by the maids of honor, who, mounting
the steps leading to the shrine, deposited
their gifts of flowers at the feet of the
virgin. The "Veni Creator" was rendered
in chorus, followed by the reception of
tho 30 aspiranta into the sodality. An
unusually appropriate sermon was deliv
ered by the parish priest. Rev. F. M. Me-
Kenna. and afterward the choir joined
with the chorus in singing the benedic
tion, the hvmn, "Holy God, bringing to
its conclusion one of the most impressive
Mav ceremonials in the several vears
that the festival has been observed at St.
Monica'.
BARRE VISITORS IN COURT.
PLUNGED 70 FEET.
John Watson, Painter, Killed at West
Rutland.
Rutland. May H John Watson of Phil
deinhia. a painter employed bv the Da-
Several Were Noted in Monday Morning
Line To-day.
Six intoxication respondents, the sum-
total of arrests made bv the police
through the week end, were arraigned
beiore Magistrate H. W. Scott in city
court this morning. William R, Brown
of New York City pleaded guilty to a
first offense and went to jail for 10 day.
Albert Larscn of St. Albans acknowl
edged a subsequent offense and will serve
70 clays in lieu of paying the Sin fine and
costs. Thomas Ashes paid a $15 tine and
costs of $R.30 for a subsequent offense.
John Kerr of Williamstown, pleading
guilty to a subsequent offense, was asked
to disclose. He told tales on a stranger
and went to jail for 30 davs with an ad
ditional fine of $15 and costs imposed.
William Robertson of Mount street paid
$5 and costs of $5.S." for a first offense.
Alonzo Dixon of Marshfield admitted a
first offense and paid the minimum fine
and costs.
Lloyd. F.dton. of Fairview street, who
will be 13 years old next month, was
brought into court under the juvenile act
for the alleged thctt of a bicycle, and
other depredations while a resident of
Foster street. Edson appeared before
the magistrate a few weeks ago and ad
mitted that he had been implicated in
window breaking., .lodge Scott reviewed
the misdemeanors said to have been com
mitted by the youth and then sentenced
him to serve the remainder of his mi
nority in the industrial school at er-
gennes.
the Rio Grande and rcKrt have it thatjvid Salkind company, fell to his death
uicir tnroats were cut. a posse ot .i Satinda- aifernoon while at work on
WILLIAM M. STEWART.
a sta'k at the Vermont Marble com
pany's new lime kiln at West Kutland.
He made a misstep snd plunged 7" feet
on to snnie stone and otiier material in
ue bv workmen, lie sirucK squareiv
RoMici. G. Caldemra and fsmilv, Mrs.
GarihoMt and fjmilv. Mr. and Mrs. G.
A'-pesi and family: lilies. Mr. snd Mr, t
F. Rersanti; carnation. Mrs. R. Pall",
Aqu. Mr. and Mr. Fein Ri7i and F. j
Kirii. Mr. and Mr. -Joseph Casni. Mr.
and Mr. T. Ri. Mrs. S. Fntjn and I
family: wreath. Mutno Su.Tiro; wrenth.'for wit!i Rarre."i.rrT snd lower i.rjn
fsm.lv ; urnations. Mr. and Mrs. M. I:ri ite d'e. urir cd lowrr We'.ter ille
CLEAN-UP IN BARRE TOWN.
Saturday, May 13, Will Be Devoted to
the Work.
Saturday. Mat 13. ill lie f lea n undiv
and family, C. Mararra: roses. Mr. and and f;t Rerre. Tl !-rd of hea'th wi'l Jm.-s. A rail of - t fvniret r more
Mrs. .1. rarniironi and RotineTij fini' : i mh.I f..it teams that inornin? to in, k 111,t,' to hura into the :ng1e window
wreath. Mr. and Vr. J. ..! ant fa-n
iiy: eamati-n. Tony I kM id. AmepnGan
SnHi. Roy M.IVmall. .loin ,i,r,;.).
Im Ssi. Hi,ry Smith, f !ard Keie.
G-hn kettvV, fvil. Mr. 1
Mrs. K. Pa'TiT'-ni. Mr. .and Mr. R. C
. :ara.
Y" gn.
citizen of Marathan last night are in
pursuit of the Villista.
The missing trooper is rriate Tyree.
The little boy is the son of Compton. j
lie wa deaf and dumb and bandits are i
thought to hae killed him because he!r,n f,,,, Hn,) K.th eves were giinred
conid n.t answer their questions. OMt ji,, jl0, ahout minutes. Mr.
The two wounded troopers Piivates ! Watson was al-uit JO years old and un
I. Birek and Frank IMiee were brought 'man ie l.
here yesterday afternoon badly wounded j -
Birck's Ksly was filled witn mll brass ggy SLIGHTLY INJURED
niece of ticks fired from a shotgun. IV- I ...
free wa burned about- the head an 1 J VHin Forward Wheel of Auto Went Over
houlder. j His Leg.
In a little adobe noii nine caalr- X-,,, m,.t ) ir- ! 1 v Nert'i M . n
men made their fpht 1 t Itf..- acainst , Mrr,, th). Bf,,rn, k. 'W. P.j.W tru.k
the 70 or tn.-re ilhta ln iit. at Glenn , i,- nmr,) p,,.,r,m ),. rn
nt fii.-ii the sidewalk directly in tKiit
.if the r. The driver of t!-,c r put on
use. hilt the cavalrymen kep: ii.Hrake but ,-miM not avni.l rnnnit). over
a he lav the
MfK n les.jer ordered fre lails -y W I j-. w m-rt. N i f.n-s ere brcken !:!
thrown on the r'f tHiklj tf.m.lr,! iti -.?r was ,n.te.! I. Ihe forward w.
nd!ria. ! te . r t-,nK t"-j r-d lt.re the r n
The !' wee) tntturej t;. s..i.ri w t-! b t him. IT. M. I, t!
all nihb:h and householders are a-ke.lit!ie house, twt the cavalry men kep:
t.. have it ro;ie,d in idle a near the steady fee in decant anwer. Th.-n
r i -o;l.ie in a convenient pla.e.
' h.'.irrn mn alo a-'-t freat'v h sif.
k1i?-2 t ' e iir. li;l their lm an 1
cl'i-TiiM. In i; 2 in the !. a i.; lam- The h-'"z weed tntturei t!. s..l iters
low and biirnt t'.r beads and IWica, .'irsed tJ.e oni.
Death Claims Another of Bane's Aged
Citirens, a Native of Berlin.
William M. Stewart passed away Sun
day morning at le);Jo o'clock at his home
in the Morse block, after a long period of
failimz health. He was born in Berlin
et. I. 1.'M. the son of John and Adelma
Paul Stewart. He lived in Rerlin until
he was IS year of age when he went
West and remained until 1S2. Durinjf
hi- r iden.-e in the W est he married
.! Uiratw-th l"ie.' who died in iaJ. On
lUnifhtor was Itti to them. Flora, now
Mrs. W ilium Messenger of Norwich. Iw
!s''3 he married Mr-. .hic A. Stewart,
who survives low. together with a step
on. Georje M. St.art of Mint primer:
tvree trail-iihi!iren. Archie. Mary and
t.niily M'epfer of Norwich and t
tep sran ! -utdren. I larton and tV-roth"
"-tewart Mr.ptpelieT: also one ser.
Mrs Geo-i-.' F. Hlw of Berlin.
lie IuhmI will he held in the rhapel
oi f,.i jer undertaking estahli-fiew
I ,. e.'ne .'y afternoon at i :.K1 o' j.s k.
r I" -.iriBl in te rewterr at R-rl n Corner,
It i t jii -ted that ffow-ers be oxtti.
t
f
