At'B lit
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXIII.
VaILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1916.
NUMBER 4
Hart Pleads Guilty
To Embezzlement
Appeals to Mercy of Court Will Be
Sentenced Tomorrow Assailants
of W. G. Scott Plead Not Guilty.
Edmund H. Hart, indicted for the
embezzlement of $5336.80 of the fundi
of the 2nd Circuit Court, this morn
ing pleaded guilty to the charge.
Judge Edings announced that sen
tence will be pronounced at 10o'ciock
tomorrow morning. .Hart's defalcat
ion occurred during the time he was
clerk of the court.
At the request of Attorney JarnesL.
Coke, who isleaving for Honolulu this
evening, Judge Edings convened
court tit two o'clock this afternoon in
order to give Mr. Coke an opportunity
to make a statement in connection
with the sentencing of Hart. Coke's
address was brief, and his plea for len
iency in sentence was based largely
on tie fact that the former clerk is
the father of 12 children, 6of whom are
still dependent on him, and any penal,
ty Imposed must also bring hardship
to them.
It was generally supposed that fol
lowing this appeal, sentence would
be immediately imposed, but Judge
Edings repeated his former order that
the case would be taken, up tomorrow
morning.
Some surprise was expressed
when the list of indictments return
ed by the grand jury was read, at the
opening of court this morning, that
but one indictment had been returned
against Hart. It is understood, how
ever, that the prosecution felt extrem
ely confident in its one charge, the
amount of the defalcation being that
shown by Hart's own cash book. It is
also known that there are various
other shortages in accounts not those
of the circuit court, but from estate
funds and other moneys entrusted to
the clerk, and these might still be
the basis of further prosecution.
Twelve True Bills
The grand jury returned in all 12
indictments following which it was
excused for the term. All of the ac
cused were In court when the grand
jury reported, and were arraigned im
mediately after. The indictment were
as follow:
Ah Fook.havlng sexual Intercourse
with female under 15. Plea tomorrow
morning. Enos Vincent attorney for
defendant.
Charles Delgado, having sexual In
tercourse with female under 15. Plea
reserved.
Okamoto, assault and battery with
weapon. Plea not guilty.
Akana Luni Ko, passing a forged
paper. Plea of guilty.
Victoria Sebalbuino, assault and
battery with a weapon. Plea of
guilty.
Sakal Takayama, forgery. Plea re
served till Saturday. Eugene Murphy,
attorney for defendant.
Teofilo Ledisma, burglary in first
degree. Plea of guilty.
Edmund H. Hart, embezzlement.
Plea of guilty.
John Lincoln,, Sam Likana, William
Kaaimoku, and William Ioana, sepa
rately indicted for assault and battery
on W. G. Scott. Pleaded not guilty.
Trial Jury Next Monday
The trial jury, which is summoned
for Monday morning at 10 o'clock, will
begin the trial of the above cases, as
well as some 17 other criminal cases,
besides 9 or 10 civil cases in which
jury trial has been demanded.
NO EVIDENCE AGAINST PO
LICE SAYS GRAND JURY.
The grand Jury, In its final re
port, states that it made a tho
rough investigation of a charge
of irregularity In the police de
partment, but found no evidence to
sustain it.
It would also have the license
revoked of chauffeurs found using
their cars for immoral purposes.
The. investigating, body, also
wants an ordinance to regulate
dance halls.
FAIR SUFFRAGISTS AT IT
FOR FAIR
The delegates to the Suffrage Con
vention.called for April 7, at the Wai
luku Town Hall, are finding the
"Pankhurst path" a stormy one to
tread. Devotees to the "vote", they
are assembling their arguments and
only wait the opportunity to convert
the "amis" to their side. The evening
promises much entertainment and will
be one to go on record as one full if
good fun. adv.
Good Suggestions
Offered For Fair
Object For Which New Enterprise
Should Stand Set Forth In Letter
By Experiment Station Man.
Frederick G. Krauss, director of
the extension division of the Hawaii
experiment station, at Haiku, and a
homesteader in the Kuiaha district,
in a letter to the Maui chamber of
commerce, read at (he meeting on
Thursday, has set forth the objects
for which the fair should stand, in a
most comprehensive and excellent
manner. His suggestions will doubt
less prove most helpful in making
Maui's fair the success it should be.
He says
"One of the important functions of
the Agricultural Extension Division
is to enccurage just such enterprizes
as a good county fair stands for. This
I take to be, nominally at least, "for
the upbuilding of agriculture gener
ally, and to lead up to such ideals as
will elevate, inspire, educate, and
broaden the thought and activities
of the rural people"; and to bring
into closer understanding and sym
pathy our urban and rural popula
tions as well.
"A good fair is one that entertains
and educates. For its best success
it must do both. It should be an
agricultural exhibition essentially;
also fundamentally useful to intelli
gent practical farmers and their fam
ilies. And these things also appeal
to the city people wlitSi rightly pre
sented. People will attend a fair if
there is anything interesting and ben
eficial going on There are various
ways to make it so, among them:
"Appoint directors and superinten
dents for their willingness to work
and abilrty to accomplish results.
"Exclude all objectionable side
shows, catch penny schemes, and
venders of worse than useless trash.
"Offer liberal, well-proportioned
prizes for the best exhibits of every
thing agricultural, but of course care
fully classified. Also arrange, so far
as possible, adequate means for the
care and protection of exhibits,
whether of livestock, crops or what
not.
"I believe it would be well to em
phasize the old fashioned arts of the
household, by offering liberal prizes
for exhibits of home cooking, pre
serving, sewing, etc.
"Provide a special department for
the use of our College of Agriculture,
the Hawaii Agricultural, and Hawaii
an Sugar Planters Experiment sta
tions. The Board of Agriculture and
Forestry, and other agricultural bod
ies of the Territory.
"Of course the Department of Pub
lic Instruction, both County and
(continued on page 5)
Pali Asked To Resign
In Favor of Raymond?
It was learned from reliable source
today that Pali has received his com.
mission as Lahaina district magistrate,
and has formally accepted, and has
sent in his resignation as member of
the board of supervisors.
Much interest has been aroused on
account of a rumor current during the
past week that Supervisor Philip Pa
li was to resign his office and accept
the position of district magistrate of
the Lahaina district. The rumor has
not been denied, though it is now
claimed that Pali has declined the
proposition. In case of a vacancy oc
curring on the board, it would of
course be filled by an appointee of
the Governor, and the rumor had it
that Dr. J. II. Raymond was to have
been the man named for the place.
It is said that Pali was at first inclin
ed to accept the proposition, since
the district magistrate job pays H')'
per month, against $30 as a supeni
sor, but that after consulting with
some of his constituents he was per
suaded to turn down the oiler.
Maui County Fair
Definitely Launched
Well Attended Meeting Of Citizens
Strongly Favors Idea First Steps
Of Organization Taken.
Maul is to have a county fair. That
was decided upon at a representative
meeting of Maui citizens held at the
Wailuku town hall on Thursday af
ternoon. The fair will probably be
held some time during the coming
summer, though there was some talk
of holding it during the Thanksgiving
week. A suggestion made by F. F.
Baldwin that the idea be given up for
this year on account of the fact that
the national guard encampment, and
the general work of organizing the
militia on Maui occupy the attention
of many persons, did not meet with
approval, and it was definitely decided
to undertake the big proposition.
Before the meeting adjourned Chair
man It. A. Wadsworth was empow
ered t o form an executive committee
of 13 members, nominations for
which are to be made by the different
organizations and of the county and
territory interested in such an affair,
he himself to be chairman of such
committee. It is intended that this
shall be representative of all agricul
tural, commercial and educational in
terests in the community, and it is to
have power increase its membership,
and to appoint sub-committees to
handle the different departments into
wich the affair willnaturally be divid
ed. The committee is to be ofrmed
as soon as practicable, and it is ex
pected to have a working organization
formed within two or three weeks.
Cooperation Promised
Dr. Victor A. Norgaard, territorial
veterinarian, who came from Hono
lulu especially to attend the meeting
as representative of the board of ag
riculture and forestry, brought word
that the several divisions of his de
partment will be represented at the
fair, and will do all possible to help
make it a success. He specifically
mentioned the bureau of animal in
dustry, the bureau of entomology and
the division of forestry as having in
mind exhibits of as comprehensive a
character as possible.
Supervisor D. T. Fleming stated
that the supervisors, at their meeting
last Saturday, had discussed the pro.
posed fair at considerable length, and
stood ready to back up the project in
every way possible.
Dr. Norgaard was enthusiastic on
the matter of the fair, stating that
the success of the first Hilo fair, last
year, in spite of three days of heavy
rains, bad roads, and other handicaps,
had been so marked, and the enthu
siasm so great that he felt confident
that if Maui people could get some of
the same kind of enthusiasm there
would be no question as to the suc
cess of the recent undertaking.
W. F. Pogue spoke most strongly in
favor of the idea, declaring that he
believes such an enterprise to be one
of Maui's greatest needs at present,
inasmuch as it will brigs the people
Into closer touch with each other, and
stimulate various lines of industry
that particularly need stimulating.
Itwas on Mr. Pogue's motion that the
committee of 13 was appointed, after
(Continued on page 6)
Harold Rice May
Be Maui's Delegate
To Big Republican Convention
Wilcox Mentioned For Alternate
Executive Committee Holds Meeting
Today is the date set for holding
of republican precinct club meetings
at which will he nominated delegates
to the territorial convention which
meets in Honolulu on April 3. These
meetings will be held between 7 and
8 p. m.. Following these nominations,
precinct elections will be held on Sa
turday, March 25, between 1 and 6 p.
in., at which time the 36 delegates
accredited to Maul', will be elected.
The republican county executive
committee held a meeting last Thurs
day to arrange details for holding the
above meetings. It is understood
Hilo Getting Busy
On Civic Convention
September 21 to 25 Is Date Fixed
County Fair To Be Held At Same
Time Stevenson is Secretary.
Reports brought back from the
Big Island by Worth Aiken, Maui's
represenative on the Hawaiian Pro
motion Committee, tell of the prepar
ations being made by the Board of
Trade of Hilo in connection with the
Fifth Civic Convention which is to
bo held in that city on September
i'l 25. The Hilo civic organization
bas placed the management of the
convention in the hands of the board
of trustees, with President William
McKay as director and V. L. Steven
pon as secretary.
The people of Hilo are determined
to make the filth convention a record
one in every way, and they are, at
this early datv, going ahead with
plans that will work for the success
of the big annual gathering of men
from all the Islands of the group.
Judging from an outline of the pro
posed entertainments that will be
given In honor of the delegates to
the convention, there will not be an
idle moment for them while they
are on the Big Island. Excursions by
train and automobile are to be en
joyed and all the beauties of the
Haniakua, Puna, Hilo and Volcano
regions will be shown the visitors.
The convention is to begin on the
morning of September 21, shortly
after the arrival of the steamer Ma
una Kea at Hilo. Business sessions
will be held on that day, which Is a
Thursday, and the two following
ones. Sunday will be devoted entirely
to Blghtseeing and on Monday there
will also be other excursions.
As Hawaii's second county fair
opens on Friday, September 22, the
the visitors to Hilo will have ample
opportunity to see the big agricul
tural exhibition as the guests of the
people of Hilo. The fair will be
open for two days and It promises to
be even better than that of last year.
Hundreds of people from the outside
districts of the Big Island will patro
nize the fair and they will have a
great opportunity to meet "the visi
tors from the other islands. Hilo
will place no limit on the number of
delegates to be invited to attend the
convention and all can be well taken
care of in the Crescent City.
Booze Responsible
For Row In Kahului
Discharged Hawaiian Sailors Assault
Saloon Man And Beat Him Bad
ly Victim To Hospital.
W. G. Scott, the well known pro
prietor of the Kahului Saloon, was
the victim of a vicious assault, on
Tuesday afternoon, by four former
sailors from the American-Hawaiian
freighter Alaskarr. As a result Scott
was taken to the Malulani Hospital,
in Wailuku suffering from numerous
cuts and bruises. Although his inju
ries are not believed to be of very
serious character, his face was scarce
ly recognizable after the quartet had
finished beating and kicking him. The
men had been drinking.
Scott's assailants who were arrest
ed shortly aftor they had wearied of
pounding their victim.are all Hawaii
ans or part Hawaiians. Their names
are, Bill Kaaimoku, S. Lincoln, J.
Lincoln, and William Iona. They ar
rived at Kahului by the Claudlne
last Saturday, having missed their
ship when it left that port for Hilo.
They intended to rejoin it here, but
the captain, who had shipped other
men at Hilo, refused to take them a-
that the subject of Maui's delegate and
alternate to the Chicago national con
vention, on June 7, was also discussed.
It is stated that Col. Harry A. Bald
win, whose name has been mentioned
for the position of delegate, does not
care to accept, and it is rumored that
Harold W. Rice may be the man to
be put forward for this duty. It is
possible hat Charles Wilcox may get
the place of alternate.
FREE SUGAR REPEAL
BILL PASSES HOUSE
But 14 Votes Against Measure French Claim To
Be Hurling Teutons Back From Verdun
American Troops Enter Mexico
To Capture Villa.
WASHINGTON, March 17 Free Sugar rcal passes house
346 to 14. They had a lively time debating upon it. Fortney of Michi
gan is a strong advocate.
PARIS, March 17 French guns, trapped TeutonsaUacking on
Verdun lines. Said to rake Corhaux woods. Famous "' throw tons
of high explosive into columns, slaying hundreds. Gallic soldiers hold
ing le Home Mort. Fresh offensive hurled at heights dominating Dou
amont fort and plateau sent reeling backwards by cannon. General Gal
henni, minister of war has resigned his iosition and is succeded by
General Roque. Gallienni was commander of garrision of Paris during
first thrust of von Kluck at outbreak of war.
U. S. is given cooperation of Carranza's force.
Secretary Baker informed President, invading columns well receiv
ed. Pershing reports all is well. Slent uneventful night and is now
striking off Villa's trail. ,
WASHINGTON, March, 17 Little news comes from Mexico as
to actions of U. S. troops. Administration announces Mormon colony
is safe, but keeps all other information under cover.
Kaiser Wilhelm determined under no circumstances to have break
with the United States. With not fight with United States even if stand
he has adopted makes a factional fight in Reichstag.
BERLIN, March 17 Announcement made here that retirement of
von Tirpitz, head of navy, will make no change in Germany's submarine
policy.
NEW NORK, March 16 News reached here that French steamer
Patria, carrying number of passengers, including 20 Americans, was
stopped without warning by submarine off Algeria in Mediterranean
sea on March 1st. Torpedo missed Patria by 30 feet.
LONDON, March 16 Von Tirpitz degraded by his emperor for
failure. Commander of German navy ousted for lack of activity by
fleet. Subordinate von Capelle takes his place.
Russians now in touch with British. Petrograd reports grand duke's
columns, operating from Persia, have crossed mountains and are near
Bagdad.
SAN ANTONIO, March 16 American force begins invasion of
Mexican soil. Pershing crosses border at head of 4000 cavalry. Col.
Dodd takes another route in pursuit of Villaistas, and hunt for bandits
in arid country begins. Infantry preparing to open line of communicat
ion. Contact expected soon. Officers do not hesitate to say that exped
ition is to get Villa. Many anti-American outbreaks. At Cabullona the
Carranza garrison mutinied.
(Continued on Tage Five.)
Many Water Users
County KnewNot Of
Connections On Kula Pipe Not On
Record Superintendent Copp Do
ing Good Work County To Sue.
A delinquent list of some 20 names,
and representing about $600 In money
owing the county for water furnished
from the Makawao pipe line, was ord
ered turned over to the county attor
ney for collection, by the supervisors
at the meeting on Saturday. This is
about half of the delinquencies up to
about two months ago, according to
the report of Waterworks Superin
tendent George Copp. The rest of
the money, Mr. Copp succeeded in col
lecting. The board was also advised that the
water has been turned off from eight
Wailuku privilege holders, for non
payment of rates due, and steps were
ordered taken to collect.
Many Receipt! Found
In his efforts to collect back dues In
the Makawao and Kula sections, Sup
erintendent Copp reported that he was
confronted with many receipts, no re
cord of the payments they represented
appearing on the books. Also some
15 water connections were found on
the system, of which the county had
no record.
Substantial progress in improving
the Makawao waterworks system is re
ported. Good progress is being made
In burying the pipe line, the Waika
moe reservoir has been cleaned out,
and repairs have been made to many
trestles. About 20 new meters have
also been installed during the past
month.
board. It is said that they bad had
some trouble at the saloon several
days before, and finding Scott and the
Japanese bar tender alone on Tues
day, proceeded to do them up. A J;ip
enese barber who ran into the place
to remonstrate, got a crack on the
nose and was pitched out on his her.d
for his trouble.
Diptheria Epidemic
Has Three Victims
Wide Spread Of Disease Causes Some
Uneasiness No Cases Reported
From Lahaiua Side.
Several deaths in a dozen or more
cases of diphtheria in central and east
Maui in the past two weeks, is caus
ing the health department consider
able worry. The present epidemic ex
tends from Wailuku to Teahi. From
the latter place a Japanese family
named Furoku, consisting of father
mother, and 7 children, were on Mon
day afternoon removed to the quar
antine camp at I'aia, most of them
suffering from the disease. While
being brought to the camp in automo
biles, one of the children died. Furo
ku is well known as a vegetable grow
er. A small I'ortuguese child in the
I'aia camp also died of diphtheria
last Saturday.
In Wailuku the little five year old
daughter of Alex Rodrlgues succumb
ed to the disease hist week, and a
number of other members of the fam
ily are ill. At Puunene, M. G. Tasch
oal, the plantation police officer, is in
quarantine suffering from a mild at
tack of diphtheria, presumably con
tracted In the course of his duties a
bout the camps, and at I'aia the tele
phone "central" has beeu under quar
antine until this week.
Chief Sanitary Inspector Osmer
states that there are no eases so far
as is known, on the Lahaina side of
the island.
FIRST AID CLASS ORGANIZED.
In order to learn the principles of
first aid and emergency nursing a
class of Wailuku women has taken
up a course of study designed to
make them proficient in this most use
ful of professions. The llrst meet
ing was held at the home of Mrs.
Harry I'enhallow recently. In
struction will be given by Hr. Wil
liam Osmers and Miss Julia Nie
mayer, bis assistant.
