WW
i kKS hhhA Hh KK SH I Wl L AY KA I h
rr x uiviw jlxix jlji u jli xj-j j-jl vi x xx x 111 x ? t vyxi x x jli x x x jLjJU
Fair and oelder to-nlghti Saturday olr and warmar
MM
EDITION
'Circulation Books Open to
"Circulation Hooka Open to AU."
PRICE ONE OENT.
L'oprifht, Utin, br Tli. rmi PublWIiIni
On. (Th. !w York WorM).
NEW
YORK, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1916.
22 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
JH KDITiON
7
M '
5
, f 'r
VILLA SCATTERS
CLASH AT THE
BRITISH ARE DRIVEN BACK
ON KUT-EL-MRA FRONT;
TOWNSHEND STILL PENNED IN;
Turks Follow Up Recent Successes
Against Army of Relief, Pierce For
tified Lines Near the Tigris River
and Capture Zenzir Heights.
UEItUX, March 17 fUy Win-lean to Sayvllle). The Urltlsh forcc-H on
tha Tigris below Kutel-Amnra ljegan a general retreat aftor their defeat
Hear Kclahlc on March s, with the T'irVs hi pursuit, according to to-dny'a
Headquartcr's report from Constantinople received here.
This Is Uio Drltiuli forre which attempted to relievo the army of Uen.
Townnhend. which U bottled up at Kut-el-Amnra.
The official statement of the Turkish War Office Is as follows:
"Thu enemy, after his dofeat near Kelnhle on March S, while, preparing,
for a general retreat, attempted" to attac; lu- surprise the Turkish rl5nlyQ Ranks Review J.l
wins, Jul uiKier tile pressure or me centre was rorcoj 10 uesisi iroai wit;
plan and begun a general retreat.
"On March 10-11, Turkish troops vigorously pursued the enemy and
crossed several lines previously fortified by him. na March 10, Turkish
vanguards reached Zcnzla Height, which was fortified. ""to enemy, con
sidering the Turkish forces Insignificant, attacked, but Turkish reinforce
ments counter-attacked, defeated the Urltlsh and took 180 prisoners, among
whom wcro live o Ulcers, and also captured ono machine gun, arms and
ammunition."
Crown Prince's Army Defeated i
In Five Attacks at Verdun
I'AKIS, March 17. Important Infantry aBPaults on tho French llnetj
cast of Vonlun were made by tho Germans during the night. Klvo sue-,
eesslvo onslaughts In forco were repulsed by tho French. Tho Germans ;
offered heavy losses. I
Tho Germans have not .vet resumed their activity against tho French
positions at Mort Homnio IK-ad Man Hill. Artillery exchanges In the Woovre
district continue, but otherwise there le nothing of importance to report.
Following Is tho text of to-da-'Hf
report from the .'ar Ofllce:
To lh-5 west of tho Meusa no
bombardment diminished las
night in tho rcflon of r.ethinrnuit
and C'utnlreres. After t)i check
to tho attack of yesterday, th
enemy has not reminW his move
ment on Mort Homme
"To tho i-aM of tho Mouse a
bombardment wan followed, ut 8
o'clock lant night, by a series of
very violent offensive actions, di
rected against our positions at the
village and tho fort of Vnux
"Five successive attacks In largo
numbers were delivered by tho
Germans In this region, but with
out success. Two of them wcro
against tho village of Vaux, two
others against tho slopes leading
up to tho fort, nnd tJio llfth was
in an effort to emerge frdm a pro
tested roadway to tho southeast
of tho village of Vaux.
"Every ono of these attacks was
Broken by our curtains of fire,
and the flro at our machine guns
cost tho enemy heavily.
"In the Woovre district Uiero Is
ntfthlnir to report furthor than or
tlllery exchanges In all of tho
its to tho west of I'ont-a-i
iison. A surprlso attack
against a salient of tho enemy
linos at the wood of Mortmartre,
made It possible for us to bring
back some prisxmera and to tn
fllet some, losses on the enemy."
BERLIN STILL CLAIMS
PART OF DEAD MAN HILL;
REPORTS SUCCESSES.
DElUdN, (via London,) March 17.
riepulso of two French attacks
anslnst our position on l')end Man
Hill. Tfa claimed In an official state
aant tea U War Offlca tWa af tar-
noon. The tlrst attack reached the
German llne.. It was Mated, but
French troops surviving the German
lire wto taken prlhoner. The sec
ond attack was stopped by Gorman
artillery. Following Is tho text of
the ropnrtr
"In tho Meiiso region (Vet dun) the
enemy sent forward repeatodly a
fresh division, which advanced on a
comparatively small width of front
and was noticed as soon as It ap
peared against our positions on )Btl(
Mnn's Height. The first attack was
without nrtlllery preparation, In tho
nature of a surprise. A few com
panies surer-Ailed In reaching our
lines where the few unwounded men
remaining were taken. Tho hecond
attack was stopped by our curtain
of fire.
ENTIRE NATIONAL GUARD
IN GAMP AT ONE TIME
i
Assembly nill Appropriates s5oo,-!
ooo to Meet Expense of Adjt.
(Jen. Stotesbury's Plan.
A1.I1ANV, March 17. -Asst-mblymon
Klncald Introduced a bill In tho As
sembly to-day, appropriating 600,00u
for the mobllzatlon, encampment and
Held exorcises of the national guard.
Tho measure has tho support of
Gen. Htotcabury. who as un Incident
nf the preparedness plan has decided
to mobilise tho entlrn national guard
this year for camp duty.
Heretofore certain regiments have
been ordered to tho Statu camp dur
ing tho summor, but It Is believed
moro effective work will lie accom
k. .,n,m.,t. it. in .imn .1 L.
the command arc in camp at one
Um,
Sixth Field Artillery, U. S. A., Making
At Columbus, N. M., for Chase After
"aim ISsPlBril '
by Groat Crowd, Includ
ing the Mayor.
Tho St. Patrick's Day parade
started up Fifth Avenue from Forly
f.econd Strent at 3.39 o'clock this
afternoon with S,0oo marchers In line
and Coroner Tim Healy on a prancing
charger in the lead, follnwi-d by the
SKty-nlnth Heglment Hand pl.iylng
tuneK ilc.-ir to the hearts of Frill's
fons. What had promised to he a
bad day for the marcher ln-eamn an
Ideal one with the. bright sunshine
and the crowd that lined New York's
how avenue six deep.
The Streot Cleaning Department
had perfoimed Its sharn of making
the procession a success, and the ave
nue was as clean as a ballroom floor.
An army of policemen under In'peo
tois O.ily and Morris held tin- chei r
Inir crowd In plaee.
The p.irndn itartej wlth-iiit tho
thurot'gh organization which o'mr.ii'
terired It In former years, when a
united frunt was prosentM and the
details wero worked out weeks in ad
vanc. Thnro was little tlmo left for
i.'oroner Timothy Heuly and his aids
to mako nrranKOtnentM after they
wnro empowered by the courts to
conduct tho affair. Coroner Healy
was the Grand Marshal.
Tho failure of Cardinal Parley to
review the marchers and the non-appearance
of tho gallant Sixty-ninth
and a few oiner organizations nmui .
WllllnTCW oei-ausn 01 ni ihch gi um
monv. made n big dlfl-rencn in tne
situation, but Grand Marshal Mealy
,sald he had been notified that twen-,
ty-flvo divisions of tho Ancient Order
of Hibernians would do much to te
drero tho affair. j
1 The chief reviewing officer was
1 Mayor Mitchel, who reviewed thu
j paradoru from tho balcony of the
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
WILSON WEARS SHAMROCKS.
Alo u tirrrn rrl.ttt-, In lllneri lnu
St. I'utrlek'a ly.
WAfiJIIN'UTON. March IT l'renldenl
Wilson obierveii Bt. 1'atrlck's Day to
day by wearing a ureen ntcktlo and a
sprig of shamroclc sent him by John
iifHrnnml. tho Irldi NatloniUlat Jflaili- .
Adjt-ilnt.mbrs of tha Cabinet and other
Government omciais.
Last Two Days of Big Salo.
)12 Men's Suits and Overcoat!, iiM.
Tho "HUD" Clothlnc Corner. I (road
way st Harcloy Str (Opp. Woolworth
Dulldlng), will sell to-day A .Saturday
tho balance nf their Mrn 112 .Suits A
(jvnrcoats. ftn blauk t tit but. grays, nett
ed stripes ft dork mixed h orated: all
Izes,
Worth 112 lu any other itnrc.
in
special prlco to-day & Saturday,
95.99. Open tjaturday night till 10. Hub
,fciothlr, Droaawsy. eorntr Harcl7 St.
Adrt
iiuuuuuiii onio 5f3aP;l;
fllU 1 I 111 1 IH I III ill I BT riCLU M-TIW.K"f 1 t.V)SWTlDua r.r y
I I II I I V 1 1 Willi Ul V L. I ,
Tl
Attorney General Writes He
Can Reopen Case Before
Court of Appeals.
At the hear.ng nf the Th- mp-ui
I-egWIativo l'-)niinittet to-il.tv n lt
ter was read from Attorney (Jt-niral
Woodbury stating that ho bellevrd
Mayor Mltt-hel could tako action , h-t
might declare, tho dual suhwny con
tracts illegal. The Mayor, he said,
could apply to tho Court of Appeals
for a reopening of the Admiralty
ItMiiltV mwft Ttilu ifnu flir. a.,.W iifii.l
for by the Interborough nnil which
was brought In order to kIvi- t ie (n.j.
ttant-t n legal st.itus.
Tim session brought out .1 s-roiig
ltiblli; hentimeut in favor of nbull'h
lug the Public Hervh-o Commission.
Thoie wen morn than 200 people
packed close In tho committee loom,
and most of thorn worn ollleei-i of
taxpayers' associations In New York
mid Iirooklyn. Every time a speaker
addressing Chairman Thompson told
of some neglect or discourtesy or
t vasiun by thu Public Service Com
mission the audlencn applauded
ollUy
Travis
Travis it. wniiiiey, Hecri-taiv or
thu commission since it was Inaugu
rated set en .icars hko and to-day tak-
lug otllci- as a Public Service Com-
(Continued on Sixth l'j-e.)
NOAIRRAIDONKRUPP'S,
CLAIM MADE IN BERLIN
fJvcrseas Agency Ded.tr.-s tlw !e
port About Damairc rc
lJure
Invention -
ItnitMN, (by wireless to S.iyulle)
March 17. "Foreiirn uen suppers are
Hpi cadlng reports that l.'sson (the
homo of tho Krupp works) hus hien
dnmaged badly by an nttack by en
omy aeroplanes, mid that the rail
road station nt Kssen has been at
tacked with bombs," says the Over
seas News Agency.
"Theso reports me pure InvHtition,
as Is stated by competent Orman
atitliorlttes."
W!vn:n rnnsKS to tVAn.Mr.n ri.iMm
All ruutM. tit retn. Hi llnw. S.IUu. rv.
pitsi tnd UMU'jif tt Ttt Weil Irt'.l ntuMi,
AkS; I'bliw iW'crWi Ilulldlaf. l3Si l-u
San, X. CIV, Tdtofceni lUuau 0O0, i4r.
SUBWAY CONTRACTS
HIS BANDITS;
BORDER FEARED
tfjTM FIELD Mr-Tlll-JiR.V
TO MQVU OVER. TME FRONTIIJ.R. (SIST KIVM. bKlk.
21 SAILORS SAVED AT SEA
FROM LIFEBOAT: 7 ADRIFT
Wireless Describes Rescue 01
Mart of bunken Ka
nawha's
Crew.
Wireless messages to the I tilted
Fruit Company from f'apt. Wdton
j ', n '""
of the steamship Sint.1
M.irt.i tell of Ihn ri-si-ue .it .ei of
luenty-oni- ninii in an op n hn.it. The
n-Ht-tied si-anit-u fir,. tiieinherM of the
t n w of tlo- freight steamship K'.in
nwh.i. whleli Ii.ft New Vork Mfilch 11
and later londed with ei,.il nt Nmfolk
for Itlo .l.inelro. Seven nthr-r iiiitn
lieis of the crew arc adrift in a life
boat and the Hanta Malta and other
vessels are searching for them.
The Santu Mart.i left New Yotk
Wednesday for Kingston. Jamaica
nnd Colon. About fi.Sn o'clock I.ihI
nigh the lookout slgh'e.l a Cost-n.
MBtinl burning and nutilli 1 the com
mander. Tho Santa .nt,r cnurM
is changed nnd. fill-.ivin 'he re.l
Cl.nr. which burne.) funn nine to
tune, tho ulcami-r rime across
open ho.it crowded wit a -uen.
The tweiity-ouo AC-nnii-u, half dead
from exposure, were lifud aboard the
I tier Among fin mimliei- was I'apt
It. itr.im A. Itigoulop of tho Kanawha
Mo t'-ld Capt. Davison Uh vessel h.i'l
I.' i n i iiuglit In the bll.aid a few das
ag.i and hpriltig a leak, wlin h muld
n .? Ijo controlled by the IiUini'- T.i-
sti anier sank nlmost lienia'i t'.n
I feet and tho crorw put -iff in '-
, llM.ll-..
i'.i' Davison ma l" a s, li .' .
ivltlnltv for Uie inlsHing !... .n
sent "ir wireiens in -xag- n - i:
Bteamers idyliiB thosn waters '
search for tho Miven missing sail-.'
Th Kanawha went to the IjnMi.ni
Wednesdav morning shortly a'ter
dajl.Kht The se.i was rough nt tin
lime nnil tho weather i.rei- llligl
U..M W. J. O'llelllj, the third offl.. i
of 'ho foundered steamer, was In
oh-irge of tho missing lifeboat
The accident tn thn Knnawhn oc
curred In l.Citudo ,n os mid long'aele
TJA2, shout l'-f miles r. ihc ustwai.l
of Charlsstsu.
r
Ready
Villa's Army
VT M.eA R.H'VDy '
1
COMMISSIONER WOODS
ABODT TO MARRY?
Ki'P'trt, He Will N.d l)i-n, Says
Mi& lllen WorK-m ll.iiniltnn
Is to Ik Uriilt-.
P'-rlstiil ntniHis t lull Pillce C..IH
tnlK.'iloiOT Aril-Ill- Woods ,,s en
gaged to 1 1,, miirried hiivo Ik-uii cur
rent among his do.v friends nnd h,s
oft'lclal nttiH-heH fur xoine ti-ue. They
becamo mote di-tln'.te this nfti-rnonn
with tll' htllti-llienl thin his ngnwe-
ment to Miss Helen .Morgnii -itull-t
ton, daughter of William Pi.-rson
Hamilton was nbnut to bo an
nounced. Mr. Woods u.is asked If the lor
wero true. Ho .-jmlled and ri' fused to
answer thu "iiiestlon or any other re
lating to th matter. Tho depm
i-uinuilhslniipra also prervi-d bllein-e.
TIiomi who have been In eluso touch
Wit. i Mr. Woods and his movements)
recently gave full eiwlenco to the.
story. i
Miss Humillon Is a gr.inddauul-ter
of the late .1. Plcrpnnt Morgan ami is
barely twenl) jearu ol-l. H-t father .
was for many -.hh a iiuitile r of thel
Morgan banking llrm. She is the I
oldt si of Ins III i childi, n and in an
.ieiie in. inln I of i'hIi'.v i'IiiIi. Tin 1
1 1 ,i i , 1 1 : -. n liiiioi- N S'i.
'I i . 1 1 1 t 1 1 1 S l -
vilson sigTFs bill
for army of 120,000;
(i-diijiev Res.iluiii-ir, iiiitu;-N.ui.iiul!
I:.ik-.' t'p io 1 .ill W.ir 1
Strength.
W HllINnTtJN, Mui.li IT. Prtl- !
den' Wilson to-day sg:ied the joint ,
Colii'iessiaiUil resuluti-ui a I'lii.l l.UI.;
the increiso of the suiii-ling ariiu t"
its full stietiKth of appv)kii'iu',.!
i:0,0v0 into.
PERSHING CAMPS TO-NIGH
45 MILES FROM BORDER
AIR FLEET IN IU HUNT
President Again Assured by U. S.
Consul Silliman of Carranza's Ap
proval of Expedition Mexicans
Threaten Near Del Rio, Tex.
SENATE UPHOLDS WILSON;
GIVES PROMISE TO MEXICO
Tlif Aitiuricmi expeditionary forco into Mexico
luis line 1 no easualties or no clashes with Villistns to
dale, acTording to reports received to-day at Fort
Sum Houston, Tex., Gen. Funston's headquarters.
Then has been no instance of sniping reported.
(Jen. Pershing's column is expected to reach
flii.nian to-night. Guzman is a railroad town
forty-five miles south of where the troops crossed
the line.
A force of 1,500 Carrauzistas under Gen.
Hell rani is expected to join Pershing at Guzman.
(Jen. Calles, Military Governor of Sonora, is also
reported as eo-operating with the invading United
Slates forces.
An airship .squadron of seven biplanes is now in
advance of the troops. The uinneu will point, the
way of Villa's retreat.
Villa was last reported south of Casas Grandes,
making for the mountains. It is doubtful if he
will make a light. lie is reported to be disband
ing liix men.
I'nilcd Stales Consul Silliman, who is with Gen.
CiiiT.'inzn, assured the President, again to-day of
the "First Chief's" full co-operation.
The sit nation along the border was still tense
lo-day. however. All along the frontier Americans
were arriving from the interior of Mexico in fear
of an uprising.
The Senate lo-day unanimously adopted a
resolution strongly upholding President Wilson and
n.s.Mirii'g Mexico that the punitive expedition would
nol he allowed lo grow into intervention.
Dl-I. KIO, lex.. March 17. One hundred and fifty Mexicans, who
organized across the border fnun Pinto, twenty miles east of here, yester
day, have moved inland, according to word reaching here to-day.
American guards have been redoubled along that section of the border.
di'tachtneni id L'ulted Stales troops was ent to the scene.
1:1. I'ASO, March 17. l:or the first time in the history of warfare
mi t!ii continent aeroplanes are in active service to-day In Mexico. United
suit- at my avi.itoih, in swift biplanes, are hovering over the foothills
ut ihe Siena Wadie Mountains, loo miles or more in advance of the
American Column seeking out the fleeing Villa and his army of bandits.
The uvlntors li.vvti accurate maps and Information as to tho various
Mute Villa tium Uko ti re.t- h his haunts tn the mountains of Cnlhuahu
and Suiiuru. It Is iriutiied ilwt they am aided by wlroless apparatus by
rthleh they may umnmiitcate their Itiformutlon t once to the forces in
ilia field.
The a- i'ii'linn (.euuts tire not pr"-'" 1 1
vldi-l v!th any eapns nf offense. I that bombs are. to b dropptd from
They hn.'i revolvers and rltles for I ueroplanes are ridiculous, for a very
uwi !'i flu thoy nhould bo forced to I slinplo reason. Th MesUan soldier,
descend aud aie attacked. IleporU wbotbtr ot th VHU taction or the
T
