-. he;ia ' '" wp-imw '
FINANCIAL EDITION
Cuenmn
iErtrger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
fVOii-H'-0-159
rUlLADELIIIIA, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1910.
CortManr, 1910, r Tm rcnuo Lsdoki Cohpant.
PlilOHJ ONJS COUNT
JARBANZA FORCES, CLOSING
MAYOR'S PARTY PLAY A "THREESOME" AT AUGUSTA
QUICK NEWS
In on villa bands, ordered
TO JOIN AMERICANS IN HUNT
'"- -""irMJIIIU MaiUIIIIWIMIJWU4IWWnMMt
Outlaw Leader Moving
gouthward From (Ja
sasGrandes, War De
partment Announces
Ss.Puntive Expeditions, Hur
rying into uinnuunuu, i.x
hccted to Complete Ring
Arfiund Bandits Seeking
Safety In Mountain region
Etrntan Army Offlcors Snid to Be Ad-
rvisinR villa n -.nmpuiBn, now
h Reported Well Equipped With Sup
?'nllcs nnd Ammunition Vllllstns
E r . . ... .. r 111 ltf
BcllCVCd KCIMiy ior uumum ii i
JjlMItEZ. Mox March 17 (by
iiricr to El Paso, Tex.). Cnrranza
Rrtops numbering at least 200, with
Igilijictc field equipment, arrived at
f5e' Mexico Northwestern Kallroad
$ot here today waiting for a train
jjnnd for Chihuahua, it is rcportca
'Hat that Villa himself is near
Chihuahua.
JOflicinl announcement is made at
fCtranza headquarters in Mexico that
Sb whereabouts of Francisco Villa
fed his band of outlaws has been def
initely fixed in the Casas Grandes
fiSjlon, and that all Carranza troops
ItiV hppn ordered to co-onorntc with
'Ike, American punitive exppdition in
feeding their capture.
jSWnshington also received official
Ryrd that Villa wns in the Casas
Grandes region, moving southward.
Kflt was said that 4800 Carranzistas,
lHUJer ucncrai iiennni, were ciusuit; in
the bandit forces
"I'm on My Way to Mexico,"
Sony of U. S. Soldiers
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., March
17. American soldiers going Into
Mexico have n new song for their
especial benefit. It was composed
by a poet in the Engineering Corps,
is entitled "I'm On My Way to
Mexico" and is sung to the tune of
."I'm On My Way to Mandnlay."
'It follows:
I've not to go.
To Mexico,
I'or "Ftphlinpfl I'iciUUc" says It's so;
I've got to flpht
With all my might
So the stars am! stripes mnj blow.
.oo!.- oh!. Vlllti,
For I wouldn't be ycr when us boys
sec lcr; that's why
I've pot to no
To Mexico:
I'm going lo say goml-bp
"Fighting Freddy" is Major Gen
oral Funston.
'ALL well; word
FROM MEXICO ON
PROGRESS BY U.S.
Officials' Reports Show
Carranza Forces Aiding
Search for Villa
SENATE INDORSES MOVE
! . ' Miff - I t ' W&m mtSiterk
' I , vS ' is ra . "v- HP K ii
- -,- if m I- - Hi s
'7v - - Hl ! W-i- Ml "a 1
I miiMiaiii Hilitmffiwjiiriiiii.i.iiiiiiiiniMiiMinfiiiiiyjS' Wi.i, .ii.iiiinii;'iiiiiiiiini nm umiihiiiii nii'i'in 'in. .-'.-"i rinmni'iiirt
FIVE LAY DELEGATES TO M. E. CONFERENCE CHOSEN
' Five lay delegates to the General Coitfeience of the Methodist
Episcopal Chuich, which Is to meet in May at Saratoga Springs, If
Y., weie elected on the fhst ballot taken this afternoon nt the Lay
Elect oi al Conference in session at the Arch Street M. E. Church. It
took 125 out of a possible 244 votes for election as a delegate. The
following were chosen! Oeoige O. Zlegler. Mt. Airy Chuich, 134
votes; J. Lincoln Hall, Seventh Street Church, 142 votes; Alexander
Simpson, Jr., Simpson Menioilal Chuich, 207 votcsj L. W. Munhall,
Qethscmaiie Chuich, 14S votes, and John S. McConnell, Blnin Church,
170 votes. Two mole delegates ale yet to bo elected.
WASHINGTON, March 17. The
Senate today unanimously adopted a
resolution introduced by Senator La
Follettc, of Wisconsin, approving the
sending of an expedition into Mexico
to capture Villa and extending assur
ances to the Mexican people that the
act will in no way encroach upon their
sovereignty.
The action ca,mc as a complete sur-
Reports at El Paso and Queretaro
Kraro lUinf Vi'lln lind crnttpred his I
IL,T. nA wna mnvlnrr loisurolv into Prlsc' 1,s !t l,ad bce" Renerally agreed
lie mountain strongholds, with no
tnttntfoiv of giving battle, but prepar-
ig'to wage guerrilla warfare, well
quipped w,lth looa ano. ammunition.
Mexican bands burned a bridge on
tti Mpxirnn Northwestern Hailwav
Sr Pearson, Chihuahua, iry, n, ef
rt to' cut off ?scape of the Mormon
l6nyln the Casas Grandes section.
The El Paso Mormons chartered a
yeciai tram to go to ineir rescue.
A former Villista officer at El Pnso
Mid that four German officers were
with Villa, advising him in his cam-Wifm.
The American expeditionary forces,
resuming their march, were reported
Bearing the Casas Grandes section.
lai a juncture with the Carranza
forces was expected shortly.
No confirmation was received of re
ports that there had been clashes be
twten the Americans and Mexican
Mnds, although it was ndmitted con-
Jgct with snipers was to be expected
ina proDamy nan already occurreu;
JwreYcr, without crioii3 conse-
KWajhington was calm over the situ
feoni' accepting added assurances
Rem Carranza of his co-operation.
jwever, army nnd navy reinforcing
Kga continued, in order that the coun
RKmiBht be nronared for anv situn-'
KOI!. P the,. )l,.r,,,o.l, nn-.r,,,, l.lmoolf , """""" "" iciii:i.ii vurruiiza uiai iiib
SI b de f.icto (Invernment
wirom on uprising of His forces.
iTho Senate indorsed President Wil-
Jjja action in ordering the expedition
search for Villa.
that the Senate would leave "hands
olT" in the present situation in Mex
ico. Senator La Follette presented
the resolution when only a few Sena
tors were in their seats.
WASHINGTON. Mnroh 17. That the
general Mexican situation la excellent
wns the repoW'mntle today to President
Wilson and the Cabinet by Secretary of
War Newton I). Baker. He presented the
detailed reports received from General
Funston which sUpwcd ths proBress made
by the punitive expedition and the de
tails of the troop movements. In addition
ho stated that the rumors of Impending
trouble from Carranzlsta foices were
without foundation. All of the Carranza
commanders on the border are doing
everything possible to aid the Americans,
the Secretary said.
At the same time the Cabinet consid
ered Individual reports from a dozen State
Department odiclals at arlous points In
interior Mexico. These agreed that Car
ranza was maintaining' his control of the
general situation, and 'that the discipline
of his army was perfect. .
ACTIVR IN VII.I.A HUNT.
It also was shown that Carranzlsta
forceH had been distributed across the
general trails that Villa might be ex
pected to follow on his way south, and
htrong hopes are entertained that he may
be cut oft.
It uas olllclally stated that. Villa was
reported moving southward ln''the Casas
Urandes region.
The President nlsn was informed by the
War Department that the Mormon colony
at Casas (irandea was safe. Villa has
passed around it In his (light, and by to
morrow at the latest It will bo strongly
guarded by American troops.
The rrcsldent has recehed further as-
FIVE ASSAULTS
AT VAUX HURLED
BACK BYJRENCH
Germans Make Desperate
Attacks Upon Fort and
Town Losses Terrific '
SWEPT BY MACHINE GUNS
ARliXZA FORCES CLOSING
IN 0. VILLA'S OUTLAW HAND
.QUEItETArtO. Mevlro Ma rati 1R I via.
J$4i, Tex.v March 17). Official an
Kgwtment mada here today that the
&Tnia troons Hppklnc- VrntiUm Villa
Motel the rebel leader near Casas
& and that the Constitutionalist
9 nl b?n ordered y co-operate with
ggAmtrlcan forces It! effecting Villa's
Plw..
JJh Carranzistas and Americans In
Continued on re SU. Column Two
&Ulson on Lehigh Valley Railroad
JHOWN. Pa,. March 17. Tha
rantKi- "-" i'ltHttiu (.u iiiuniiiK jis
ftoivl "loinff, wnen a locomotive with
lr?IMfltmn' train M Int. 14
KTHE WEATHER
FonnnAsv
mt!r tyfadelphia and vicinity
f about so degrees; Saturday
t-Si. Qn thahtlu wanner' nr,,iU
wotly northwest.
tOST AND J?OTJND
!BA?B"';x'?f' JCrdci,contlnln pauj.
& JS Si "nil. an N 17th it.
lWSa?.0l!'r"i nony t tli.-ket. between
feSr BoM, p (j"!,, lJuer on
h?Jil ' ' t"ublrd.roa4 nd
g"1 -ot and J-oand Ad ou Vtm tl
acquiesces In the
expedition nfter Villa. It wutf learned to
day Carranza had given Consul Rllllman
additional expressions of confidence and
willingness to co-ojierate In the pursuit.
KIlllmnn'H message was transmitted to
the White House today along with early
reports reaching the War Department
from the border. The latter were for the
most part routine messages Indicating the
position of the American troops.
Complete calm wlf not prevail In Ad
ministration circles, however, until the
first few days have elapsed.
"Carranza Is passing the acid test," one
Administration ofllclal said today, and It
Is believed this expresses the feeling at
the White House, If this week passes by
without serious difficulties from Carranza
soldiers In Mexico the Administration will
breathe easier and put aside fear of
'danger from that source,
TAMPICO TURMOIL.
Meanwhile officials are concerned over
the activity of Villa sympathizers in the
Tuxpam-Tamplco oil field. They fear that
a move Is on foot by General Palaez, com
manding In that region, to take Vera Cruz
and t6 lead u new revolt against Car
ranza, which will have the active support
of .the various elements that have been
opposed to Carranza. Every precaution
wil) be taken to protect Americans and
other foreigners in this section. Admiral
Fletcher's Atlantic fleet, now at the winter
training ground at CJuantanamo, has been
ordered to hold Itself In readiness to
steam on signal to Mexican waters.
Ju . addition, the battleship Kentucky,
recently at New Orleans, has been ordered
to return to Vera Crus. where It will be
held indefinitely.
It Is believed that the action of the
State Department In directing that the
munitions held up at Douglas; be released
to General I'alles, commanding the Car
ranz!ataorces in Sonora, will have a
good effect. It will Bhow. officials say,
that the United States is deferring to
General Carranza In every way as the
head of the de facto Government and this
action especially, likely will overcome
much of anlVAraerlcuu feeling recently
manifested In the camp of CalJes In ad
dition, it I expected that this action will
resuK In Callea guarding all of the trails
leading into Sonora so that Villa cannot
get Into that State,
IJAIltS. .March 17.
German troops today launched flvi vio
lent nttacki against the French positions
at tho village nnd fort of Vaux, northeast
of Verdun, but nil the Attacks wero
checked by the French artillery, accord
ing to the communique Issued by the War
Olllco this afternoon. It also states that
tho Germans have suffered heavy Ihsmos
On tho west bank of the Xleusc a slack
ening In the tcrrlllc bombardment Is ic
ported. The Germans did not renew their
attacks on Dead Man's Hill during the
night.
The text of the communique follows
West of tho Meuse the bombard
ment slackened during the night In
the region of ttethliicourt unci Cuiii
IcrcH. After the bloody chdck which
his attack received esterday, the
enemy did not renew Ills assaults on
the height of I.e Moitc Honimo (Dead
Man Hill).
l'ast of the Mcuse an increase III
tho bombardment was followed, be
ginning at 8 it. in., by n series of of
fensive actions of n ery violent char
acter against our position at the vil
lage and fort of Vnux.
Five successive attacks with large
forces were launched by the Germans
In this region without a single suc
cess, two on the village, tuo others
on the slopes of the ridge mi which
the fort Is located and finally a last
one by which the enemy attempted tq
debouch from a cross ro.ids to the
southeast of the illaga of Vain,
All theso attacks, broken by our
curtains of II ro and our machine
guns, cost the enemy severo losses.
In the Woere region no dpi clop
meut is reported, with the exception
of a reciprocal cannonade In' tho en
tire sector.
West of Pont-a-Mousson a surprhe
attack against - salient of the enemy's
line at tho Forest of Mort Mare
enabled us to bring back soma pris-
Continued on Pace I'our, Column Tho
mmmmmiMm' JS& .Mraiiu urn mill nimiiT
h-v J '
'DROP-NICKEL-IN'
FARE BOX TO GO;
IT ROBBED P. R. T.
Mechanism Made Cheating
Easy for Conductors.
Losses Were Heavy
TO RING UP FARE AGAIN
Above, on the right, Mayor Smith
is observed about to shout "fore"
in n golf contest in which his
rivals aro W. Freeland Kendrick,
on the left, and Mrs. E. II. Vare
(below), wife of State Senator
Vnre.
MAYOR IM.0I.0X(.S HOLIDAY
Will Not Start Home Until Monday
or Tuesday Next Cold Wave
Cancels Golf Games
Al'GUSTA. Ga., March 17. Mayor
Thomas II. Smith, of Philadelphia, and his
paity spent last night chatting with
friends In 'their hotel, after u Mrriiuous
afternoon cross-country riding. Tho cold
uavo from the north utruck herv yester
day and spoiled all tho pWnncd gulf
games
Tho Mayor has decided to extend his
stay and will not leate for home until
Monday or Tuesday. He Is considering
taking the party to the borm show at
Aiken, S. C ,' tomorrow
Cheating- Made Easy
Fifteen hundred self-registering
P. R. T. fare boxes to be sent to
scrap heap.
Dishonest conductors found
boxes easier to beat thnn old sys
tem of ringing up fares.
Scheme childishly simple.
Nickels were filed to diameter of
pennies, given to passengers in
change and machine registered
them as pennies.
It took five filed nickels to make
machine register one fare.
Dishonest conductors gained 20
cents on every live passengers,
P. R. T. is said to have found
scheme so widespread among con
ductors that it decided to discard
boxes entirely, j.
VOORHEES ESTATE TO WIDOW AND DAUGHTERS
Two ilnnglitpts mill t lie- widow of Theoiloio Voorltccs. late president of th
Philadelphia nnd rtpiullnir Hallway, slime in Ills OHtate, according to tho
liiovlslnns of his will, probated at Norrlstown today. His daughters, Mrs.
Margaret Wood ami Mrs. t'liocbo Drayton, nre Riven the houses In which tley.
reside In Melrose. Tho test of the estate boos to his wife, Mary Voorhccs, who,
with his sons, Marlon ami Henry, aro to act as executors. Tho will was
executed on March 14, 191 2.
"RUTHLESS WAR," SAYS GERMAN LIBERTY PARTY CHIEF
HI'ItMN. March 17. "Our people aro filled today with an early longing for
a ruthless war ngolnst England," writes Dr. 1'nicst Casscrmann, lcatlor of
tho National Liberty party. "Wo ure determined to reject unjustified Amer
ican interference with our conduct of the war."
RECEIVER NAMED FOR INVENTOR TESLA
NI2W YORK, March 17. Robert M. Marsh was today named recclvor ot
the assets or Nikola Tesla, tho noled Inventor. Th6 notion was taken In
the city's suit ngnlnst Tesla for $1000 personal tax. Tcsla testified that ho
lived almost entirely on credit and that ho has a bill at tho Waldorf-Astoria
which has not been paid for several years.
PENNSYLVANIA CRUDE OIL NOW $2.G0
PITTSBURGH, Maicli 17. Tho Joseph Seep Purchasing Agency today
announced an advance of 10 cents In tho price of Pennsylvania crude oil to $2.G0.
U. S. CAPITAL TO AID AFRICAN MINE PROJECT
LONDON, Maicli 17. Ior the first time American capital Is to bo used to
assist the development of koUI mliiinc; properties In the Rand district of
South Africa. Isaac Lewis, of the bunking firm of Lewla & Marks, announced
today that American financiers liavo promised financial aid to a project for
tho development of properties on a big scale. More than $15,000,000 Is'lnvolvcd.
SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION BUILDING ASSURED
An administration building for the public schools on the Parkway Is now
virtunlly assured. Kdwln Wolf, chairman of tho Finance Committeo of tlje
Hoard of Education, suld today that In the $2,500,000 loan which the board
wjll float in April $500,000 will bo Included for such a structure, which will be
the "City Hall" of the public schools. The building will bo on Arch street
between loth and 16th, and will houso overy department of tho school system.
The site wns bought two years ago for approximately $300,000.
SEVEN IN FAMILY DIE IN
OLD HOMESTEAD FIRE
GEESE HERALD COMING
OF SWEET SPRINGTIME
Farmer of Claysville, W. Va
Returns to Save Others
and Perishes
CUMHKRLAND, Md.. March 17. Klls
worth E. Fout, 48 years old. well-known
farmer of Clasville, Mneral County. W.
Va., near Keyser, about 25 miles south
of Cumberland, and six of his children
Were burned to death this morning in a
fire that destroyed the Fout homestead.
The structure, being old and 'bf frame,
was wrapped In flames when a member of
the family discovered the fire at 3 o'clock,
The dead are Ellsworth E. Fout; Mrs.
William Shearer, eldest daughter, aged
18; Minnie. 14: Pella. 10; Margaret, 8;
Thomas. 6. and Ollle. 4. Those who ea-J
caped were Mrs. Fout and Infant son
Stewart; William E. Shearer and Infant
Bon; -Elmer Fout, eldest son, and David
Fout, a brother of Ellsworth E. Fout,
The fire was caused by a defective
flue. Mr, and Mrs. 3"out and the young.
est child were sleeping on the first floor,
wont nulcklv saw his wife and infant
to safety and then rushed back to save
the other children. He was oercome by
Hundreds of Birds Proclaim
Advance of New Season in
Battle With Winter
A long V-strhig of geese honking their
way across thelsky northward toduy told
the city- that spring Is coming.
The geese, hundreds upon liundredsof
them, flew- over West Philadelphia shortly
before 7 o'clock this morning, sounding
their deep, blatant cries. It was as if u
squadron of automobiles had suddenly ap
peared. The flock, which had been winter
ing on the warm waters of Southern bay
ous and savannahs, Is one of the most
authoritative evidences of the triumphant
advance of spring In Its great battle with
winter.
Snow and Ice remain firmly Intrenched
In a freezing atmosphere, while batteries
of cold wind play upon the city. But
the outposts of spring, a clear sky and
a bright sun, arrived today, undismayed
smoke and perished. Mr. Shearer and by Ihe crushing defeat of yeterday, and
Elmer and David Fout jumped from the
second-story window.
Shearer waited until David Fout jumped
and then be tossed the Infant to him.
Shearer then went back and, tried to
reacu his wife, who -was overcome by
smoke. The blinding smoke compelled
him to abandon her, after be had been
seriously burned, but be managed to
jump before the collapse ot the structure.
engaged tha enemy. The arrival of the
main army of spring Is only three days
march, distant and will arrive Monday
afternoon at the vernal equinox
Tho lowest temperature was i" degree
this morning at S o'clocV. That U below
normal, but' 6 degrees higher than yes
terday's lowest Today will be fair and
warmer, the forecast Buys.
CuiiffHt'Di-. icii-ii jo irrrirr a nre.
I'ltnch In thr prcsrner of the iusicnjure,
.1 blue trip slip or tin rlihl-ient aic,
A but trip slip Hr a sir-cent fare.
A pink trip slip for a three-rent fine,
I'uiuh In the presence a the pnasenjarr!
Punch, blathers, punch with care!
1'uuch in the presence a the ptissenjmr.
Mark 7'icnln.
The fcclf-regluterlng fure boxes, installed
by the Rapid Transit Company in the
near-side green cars two years ago, al
leaily have been found unsatisfactory, and
arc being replaced gradually by the old
time fare icglMers. which hang at the
fiont of the cars nnd iiidicato the number
f passengers n:i the conductor rings up
the fares
At the time they wero Installed the self
registering boxes were lonslderril tho
acme of mechanical perfection. The heavy
losj-e.s, which the comnanv had mirrereil
through the negligenco or dishonesty of
conductois, were thought to have been
eliminated entirely, since under the new
syMem tha passengers themselves drop
the money In Ilia boxes, and the conductors
touch the money only to make change or
to take It from the box after the amount
has Ijeeri automatically registered.
Approximately 1500 of the faro boxes
were obtained from the Dayton Fare Re
cording Company, which manufactures
them They wero placed In nearly all the
near-side green cars and in Ihe Market
street subway btatlons. It is uuderotood
that on account of the delicate mechanism,
the boxes aro very expensive, although the
Transit Company ofllclals will not say
whether they purchased the boxes out
right or merely leased them.
The reabons for tne abandonment of
the modern boxes and the return to the
old system, the officials of the Transit
Company will not disclose. The answer
which was given at-the executive office
of the company to all questions regarding
the change In the system of fare collec
tion wast
"It Is a delicate question and we must
decline to discuss It In any way,"
TELL OF DISHONESTY.
The conductors and employes at the
company's car barns, however, were quite
willing to discuss the matter. 'The ex
planation they offer Is another proof of
the old btatement that "any system de
vised by man can be beaten by man."
According to them a unique scheme to
"beat" the fare boxes was worked out by
a clever conductor on one of the down
town lines. He passed the system on to a
few of his friends. They In turn passed
It further, until recently the company
found It was losing several hundred dol
lars a day to dishonest conductors.
The plan, according to those on the In
side. Is as simple as It Is tricky, and Its
very simplicity -Is what prevented the
company uuu.-iaw jruiu learning tor a
RUSSIA ORDERS $70,000,000 WORTH OF SUBMARINES
NKW YORK, March 17. Tho Submarine Boat Corporation lias signed a
contract with tho Russian Government for construction of submarines to cost
approximately $70,000,000. These boats are to be built In Russian shipyards
under supervision of Submarine Doat officials and under patent license from ths
Klccttlc Hoat Company. The order Is said to includo 200 45-foot submarines, to
bo carried on the decks of battleships and to bo swung overboard when occasion
for their use arises. These aro to cost $200,000 each, or approximately $40,000,000.
In addition, there will be constructed 50 large submarines, to cost approximately
$600,000 each, or a total of $30,000,009.
2000 MOVIE TICKETS STOLEN
Two thousand inovtng-plctiiro tickets nio floating somewhere around Ken
sington today while district detectives tear their hulr nnd try to locate tho man
who has them. Ho Is said to hove stolen them from 'tho Lafayette Theatre, Ken
sington luonuc nbovo Caiubtla street. Ills nom do plumo Is "Peggy." Robert
Burns, no relation to "Hobble," of 1010 West Columbia avenue, was eolzed by
police and held under $500 bull today by Magistrate Wrlgley in the Front nnd
Westmorelutid streets police station for having a hand in entering the theatre.
Besides tho tickets, 500 carbons, used for Illuminating the movie machines,
wero taken.
GERMANS RESUME ATTACK NORTHAVEST OF DVINSK
LONDON. Mureh 17, Gorman troops aro again attacking tho Russian
positions northwest of Dvlnsk, It wns olllclally announced today by the Russian
War Oflice. The following statement wus given out: "In tho sector of Illuxt,
eastward of the railway from Ponewlcsh, tho enemy attacked our positions,
using grenades filled with a special explosive of great power. In the Caucasus,
during our pursuit of tho Turks, we havo captured 19 more officers and 250
men and a regimental flag."
An ofllclal statement from A'lenna says: "There Is Increased artillery
activity on both sides along the fronts held by tho armies of General von
Pflanzer. General von Baltlns and General von Boclim-Ermolll, TtUBSian infantry
attacks northeast of Kozlow, on tho Strypa River, wero repulsed."
,50 INCENDIARY FIRES IN DISTRICT WITHIN SIX MONTHS
The 50th Incendiary lire during the last six months In tho 4th and York
streets police district occurred early today In a vacant store at 504 West
Susquehanna avenue. A pile of watte to which a match was applied was placed
in a closet of the storo. Fire Sturshall Elliott la conducting an Investigation.
Tho damage was slight.
BOMBS FOUND UNDER ROYAL PALACE AT SOFIA
LONDON, March 17. A number of bombs havo been discovered under, tha
Bulgarian royal palace at Bona, according to wireless dispatches front Borne
today. Several arrests are reported to have been made. A military revolt Js
said to be Imminent, Tho populace is growing restless, the dispatch said.
MAY HAVE TO AMPUTATE LEGS TO SAVE BOY
Amputation of both legs may be necessary to save the life of Samuel Wasson,
9 years old, of 2221 Christian street, who is In tho Polyclinic Hospital, seriously
Injured, lie fell bentath a five-ton motortruck last night while roller-skating at,
21st nnd Balnbrldge streets. The wheels of the truck passed over his limbs and,
body. The driver of the truck, J. J. McGrath, of Garnett, street and Snyder S-ve
nue, was arrested,
MERCIER CONFIDENT OF VICTORY FOR BELGHJBI
BERLIN. March 17. German officiate In Brussels report that Q
Mercler, on his return from Home, issued a pastoral letter dealing j
political topics of the hour The Cardinal says that if he once, had do''
victory, his faith has been restored as a result of conversations
Americans and South Americans, who have inspired him, with unsh'
in Belgium's victory.
"One ground for his faith." says the German report, "is thy'
long time that they were being defrauded I epidemic to destroy the best organized and most successful
Thft nrnidllln). wtin u.lHu tr. um.l. au I . -. .. -. - .'
says iieigium uas already guinea a moral vietojy by saof
land, France and Russia.. ""
The conductor who wishes to work the
SSit
I'on'.luunl n l'axe Tug. Column Three
?
Ipnte Crispen, a Thrilling Tale of Adventure and Mystery in Philadelphia, Begins in Tomorrow's Eve.
W
ktint-
x,
"iu nfiuM
