THE
EP 1LTBL
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
LaatH Wira
A. P. Report
Tha) Suit
Always binaa
Finaat ,
WIntar ClimaU
I tha WM
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNlSeVRCH 17, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XL VI.
NO. 303.
B
ICAN
MAKES DEMAND
FOR PROTECT!
OF II. S. TRIBE
Executive Board of Chamber
of Commerce of United
States Pleads for En
couragement to American
Exporters
PREPAREDNESS
ALSO DISCCSSED
Vocational Training, Main
tenance of Resale Prices,
Seaman's Act and Eight
Hour Day Among Pro
lems Taken Up
Republican A P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY, March 1C Discus
sion of the United States preparedness
program; vocational training; main
tenance of resale prices; he seaman's
lift find a e,ritmvei-sv over the eight
hour dav. which . has been said to!
threaten the entire railway traffic of
the country, occupied the time of the
executive Ixwird of the chamber of com
merce of the 1'nited States in session
today.
Encouragement to American export
ers and protection to footholds already
gained in foreigu trade were demanded
of congress in a resolution adopted by
the directorate. The action arose, it
was asserted, over the amending and
distorting of a bill in the bouse of rep
resentatives calling for greater scope
in the consular service in a commercial
rapacity and to increase the pay of con
sular agents.
The eight hour day controversy was
left to a committees Much importance
was nttached to legislation affecting
maintenance of resale prices. A ref-
erendum of the sub-committee's re-
port was ordered submitted to the!
meniliershirt. .Recommendations were
ri. .Recommendations were
made requesting the federal govern
ment to make applications for voca
tional training throughout the states.
The creation of a federal board to administer-
the national -functions of vo
cational education was urged.
THE STll
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX DIEGO, March IkThe tor-
pedo boat destrroyer btewart, wmcn
1
was dispatcnea to j-.nsenaca at mm- the inscription: "Murdered by tho au
night last night by Adimral Cameron thorities o Utah. We never forget."
Melt. Winslow, returned to port to- The governor's off ice is informed that
night. Lieut. L'crnard Wills, commau- j thousands of these postcards have been
der, reporting normal conditions pre- mailed from Chicago to all parts of the
vailing at the Lower California port. j country.
Lieut. Wills informed Admiral Wins-! 0
low that news of the movement of j
American troops into Mexico in pur
suit of Villa had been received by
tho military and civilian population
of Enser.ada without any outward
sign of indignation. This report
set at rest fears that an anti-American
demonstration might occur. There
are only about 20 Americans in F.rr
scnadn, but a number of others are
in the immediate vicinity, Lieut.
Wills said.
U -LLOYD LIB IS 5UI
EITHER BYMIUEORSUBMRIIIEI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ' ,. ,ions amng them vary as to whether the
LONDON, March 16. The Holland- vessel had struck a mine or had been
Lloyd passenger steamer Ttibantia torpedoed by a submarine.
swiik early today off the Noord Hinder
lightship as the result of striking a Speak of Consul Schilling
mine or tin attack by a submarine. AMSTERDAM, March 16. (via Loh-
All the passengers, among whom are don) The Royal Holland Lloyd offi
said to have been several Americans, cials inform the Associated Press that
and the members of Vie members of Consul Schilling, his wife and daugh
the crew, are believed to have been ; ter were American passengers aboard
rescued. The steamer carried between
SO and 90 passengers and a crew of
300. She was a vessel of 15,000 tons.
The Tubantia left Amslerdnm Wed
nesday for the river Plate and was to
have slopped at Falmouth for additional
passengers and freight. Early this
morning wireless distress calls from j
the steamer were received at the Hook J.
of Holland and torpedo boats and other
craft rushed to her assistance. Some ,
of these boats reached the steamer ber (
fore she sank and took off passengers j
and members of the crew, while others ,
picked up survivors from the ships
boats in which they had taken refuge
after the explosion.
The first flashes from the liner said
she had been torpedoed and was in . a
sinking condition near the Noord Hin
der lightship. Later messages credited
th disaster to the vessel coming in
contact with a mine. .
Among the American passengers said
to have been on board the Tubantia
was Richard Schilling, described as an
American consul, and . his' wife and
daughter. . '
Seventy survivors of the disaster
were taken into Flushing, Holland, by
two torpedo boats. Others took refuge
on board the lightship, while still -others
were pickecj up by the Dutch and Swed
ish' steamers. Those arriving at Flush
ing said the explosion occurred at 2:80
o'clock this morning, just as the Tu
bantia was about to drop anchor. Op:n-
GERMANS ARE AGAIN
REPULSED BY FRENCH
IN VERDUN FIGHTING
JAP MINISTER SLAIN
MURDERER THEN SUICIDES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SANTA BARBARA, Cal., March 1.
Rev. Tsutamu Kawata, in charge of
the Japanese Congregational mission
here, was shot to death tonight by A.
Harashima, a Japanese employed on
a Montecito estate. The shooting took
place In the pastor's, home and there.,
were no witnesses to what may have
led to it. When Kawata's wife rushed
in, Harashima stepped Into an adjoin
ing room where he committed suicide.
About year ago' Harashima was badly
beaten in an altercation with another
Japanese and spent a considerable per
iod in the hospital. He is known to
have harbored revenge and the theory
among the local Japanese is that he
held Kawata responsible for his former
adversary having- left the city.
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SALT LAKE CITY, March 16. The
jack of spades, the death warning of
the "K. O. D." a mysterious organiza
tion which has leen threatening the
life of Governor William Spry, has been
received at the office of Governor Spry.
The governor is in New York. When
his secretary, John K. Hardy, opened
an envelope addressed to the governor,
the jack of spades fell out.
Six months ago, Governor Spry re-
ceived among the thousands of letters
threatening him with death in the event
of the execution of Joseph Hillstrom,
me l. n. . xeaaer, several or wmcn
were signed "D. O. D." In each of these
letters this statement was made.:
"When you receive the jack of spades
you will know that your time has come.
.Vour .death, will follow."- ; ....
Following the execution of Hillstrom,
I tho threatening letters ceased coming
i to the governor until about two weeks
tago, when he began to receive a num
ber of particularly vicious letters from
all parts of the United States. Follow
ing these came the jack of spades. The
envelope, containing this dire card was
i mailed in Salt Lake.
In the governor's mail have come
! from Chicago a number of postcards
containing a picture of the body of
.Hillstrom, showing the wounds made
by the Utah firing souad when it exe-
cutea- Hillstrom. These postcards bear
CAVALRY LEAVES KANSAS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TOt'KKA, Kans., March 15. Com
panies G ;ind F of the Twelfth cav
alry from Fort Robinson. Nebraska,
passed through hVre today on their
way to the Mexican border. A band
and a machine-gun troop accompanied
the cavaln. Colonel R. G. Slckel was
in charge.
j the Tubantia.
The American consular records do not
contain the name of "Consul Schilling."
JACK OF SPADES
DFJTR WHO
TO fit. SPRY
And Senator Owen Eulogizes
Work of the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CONCORD, x.n Mnreh i a' i.
tailed euloev of the work of the ex- I is that ' President has Kept us out W ith reference to the admimsl.a
tailea .eulon of the wofk of the e of conduion ,)f profound , tio-.i's pdicy in the European war.
eciitlve and legislative branches of the paca whila all the world besido seems nator Lodge raid that when "the
federal government under - democratic torn wkh war or internal violence. neutral rights of Belgium were shame
control was delivered by United States "Under extreme provocation, the''uUy disregarded," the United States
Senator Robert L. Owen of Oklahoma I president" has nevertheless used his -was the great neutrr.l power,
at a Jackson day dinner of New Hamp-J great powers and his great influence I 've made no attempt", he went on
shire democrats here tonight. , Senator against any act that would involve the '"to unite uader our leadership all the
Owen took np tha important measure, people of the United States in war, and t neutral powers 6f .Europe and Amer
passed by congress since the inaugura- with, the weakest of our neighbor rut- j ica in defer se of neutral right& Such
tion of President Wilson, summarizing ' tions, r with the strongest nations of , a league would have ond a powerful
his conclusions thus: j- ;. i ther world, sueb as Great Britain nnd j influence and prevented some of, the
"All these bills the tariff bill, the Germany, both of whom, because of the j horrors of the war and saved us from
federal reserve, act, the Clayton anti- ' excitement and stress of n life and 1 some -of the difficult and dangerous
trust bill, the federat trade commission 1 death struggle, have disregarded in va- j contrrfversiei which now -menace us.
bill, the gjaman's act have had one- Hons ways the International law and! "More than a hundred American
purpose: the promotion of common ! our legal rights. men, women and children, rightfully
good, the abatement of monopoly, the (
Mtonru.nl nf man kin, 1 ttio Intv-oT-inc':
of the cost of li' lng and the greater swept into war wiih Mexico, with Ger
hnpplness of all bur people. t'mnny and Austria or with Greit Urit-
, "Perhaps the greatest accomplish- aln and Us allies." ,
. - - ....
This Ls Net. Result of Ger
man Infantry Attack
Launched After Heavy
Bombardment of French
Positions
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Repulse at the hands of the French
;igain has been the net result of a
German infantry attack launched
after a heavy bombardment against
French positions at-Le Mort Homme,
northwest of Verdun. The Germans,
who attacked in serried masses, were
driven eastward, toward the Bois Des
Corbeaux, where the French guns in
flicted heavy casualties on them.
The attack at Le Mort Homme con
stituted the only infantry maneuver
along U'fi entire French front, but
from Belgium to the Vosges artillery
on both sides has been active at num
erous points. Arotind Douaumunt and
the village of Vaux the big guns arj
operating with redoubled violence,
while southward in the Woevre the
artillery duels In the Meusp hills con
tinue. In the Argonne forest the French
guns still ore shelling the German
positions northwest of the road trom
Varenneo and German batteries near
Mont Faucon. '
The latest German official commu
nication making references to French
attempts "to dispute our possession of
tho height of Le Mort Homme," has
brought forth a statement that the
Germans never hare gained a. foot
ing on the hill, which the. French still
hold. Only engagements between pa
trols have taken pace on the Russian
front. ,
The Italians continue strongly on
the offensive against the Austrians on
the Isonzo front, especially on the
T'odgora heights sector and southwest
of San Martino. On Podgora the
Italians entered the Austrian lines, ;
but according' to Vienna were repulsed .
in vicious . nand to hand fighting.
Both Austrians and Italians claim
successes around-San. Martino. The
Austrians assert that an Italian at
tack in this sector failed and that the
Italians -. left numerous dead on the
field: - The Italian' official sto.tement
declares that after severe artillery and
musketry preparation the Austrians
launched two strong attacks and suc
ceeded in reaching? the edge of the
trenches taken from them recently,
but were on - each occasion repulsed,
I Continued on Pag-" Three"
Wilson Defense Plans Shams
And Are Wholly Inadequate
' f
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I
LYNX, Mass., March 16. The ad-j
ral:;istration: at Washington was crit- j
teised severely tonight by Senator;
Henry Cabot Lodge in an address
during which he announced himself a
candidate for re-erection. He spoke
before th Lynn republican club.
"In my own- opinion" lie said, "with
the exception of the administration of
-Pichanan, there has been no admin
istration in power which has been so
injurious to the United States, both
at home and abroad, as that now in j
control at Wathington." !
After condemning the tariff anil
taxation legislation enacted by a),
democratic -congress, Senator Lodge-1
turned to the foreign policies of the i
administration. He said the plans for!
national defense suggested by Presf-j
dent A ilson "proved on analysis to he I
partly shams and wholly inadequate." .
Continuing he said: I
"The responsibility for the condi- j
tion in Mexico rests largely on xne-j
government of the United States. The"
present administration found Mexican
and American relations in bad condi
tion. They have made these bad con
ditions infinitely worse.
y "Tho result of the president's war
against General Huerta was the de
struction of the- only government that
offered any prospect of order or peace
or responsibility. The murderers and
tandits favored by the admioistra-
Administration
i ment, the one for which our people are
more- deeply grateful than any other
"An administration less wise and loss
thnuirhtfnl miirht pnsilv have been
STAGE ALL SET
FIR MIL
D IRK
erven-1,
Sweeping Aside hit
tion' Issues, Congress Pre
pares for Action On De
fense Measures Urgentiv
Pressed Bv President
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
ASHINGTON. March 16. Sweep'ng
aside intervening issues, congress set
the stage today for prompt action
on the national defense measures
urgently pressed by President Wil
son since the session began.
The houw voted unanimously for
a special rule under which the army
increase bill will be taken up at 11
o'clock tomorrow morning, with pas
sage by Saturday night iu prospect.
A ten hour limit for general debute
was fixed despite the fact that the
bill is the most far reaching military
measure ever favorably reported to
the body.
The senate military committee
completed its final review of Jho
senate aimy increase bill and it
Was in the hands of the printer to
night. Senator Chamberlain, with
the administration's influence be
hind him, will insist that it be taken
Up pTomotly, disphning the water
power bill now under consideration
unless the latter reaches a vote in
a few days. The senate measure in
some respects propose an -even more
drastic change in military policy
than is provided for in the house
bill.
Indications arc that the point con
ference ciimmittt-e which will adjust
the two bills and frame the final
measure, will be at work within
three ' weeks. The legislative work
of the army increase project may
be an accomplished fact within an
other month.
While the now! urogram has ap-
peared to progress more sl.iwlv. pos-
gjbjy it will be completed sooner than
the army projects. The increase
bills for the army, known as organi
zation bills, are distinct from the
appropriation measures which will
provldo money to carry out the
authorized plans.- These will hve
to ; be' framed' amf passed 'after the
passage of the organization bills.
The navy bill, under hearings for
months before the house committee,
!s composite, including the appropria
tions as well ;is the program. Hear
ings will end about April 1 and the
(Continued on Page Three)
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge
tion in preference to. General Huerta,
who also was a murderer, have been
desolating, the country and fighting
among themselves ever since. Out of
thit miserable tragedy or.e thing
commands our attention above all
others. Americans have been murdr
ere-.l In -Mexico; soldiers wearing tho
American uniform have been shot on
tho soil of the United States.
"The Americans robbed ami slain in
'Mexico were entitled to our protec-
:.. i -.u p , ,1.;!,. m,--
l.tl'lll iwi ij ....v. ......
' lives. They have h:td none. Within
iHH
week Mexicans have invaded the
states, attacked an- American
and killed American citizens and
American soldiers. This is the-nevit-
I .&a,ilt nf nur failure to itrnitiCt
Americans in their rights everywhere
hv land an I sea."
on board the Lusitania, were sent to
! their' death Without warning and
nothing has yet been done except
pour out words and carry on incon
clusive negotiations for eight, months.
? - I
ji
AH
H
IIIDItlG
Tells of Escape
J , .
and Murder of Five Men
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, March 16. Sam Hess, an
American employed on Corralitos ranch
in. Chihuahua, reached here today witli
a story of a hairbreadth escape from
Villa bandits after he had watched
them murder five Mexicans and carry
off a young girl as their prisoner.
Hess, who has only one leg, was
looking after some horses aud mules
in the yard of the ranch last Sunday
when the Villistas appeared. .They im
mediately shot down one of the ranch-
S H I P ERS PICK
Off TROOPERS
SEEKING VILLA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, X. M., March lfl. (via 1
mail to El Paso) While most of the i
repjits reaching here unofficially today j
from the Mexican border indicated that j
the American troops in Mexico were i
unmolested in their advance, there were
also reports that a few snipers had been
encountered. There was nothing to
show which of the American columns
might have encountered snipers.
According to these reports six or
seven soldiers of the American exped:
tion had been hit by snipers.
Troop trains came in here during the
night and Columbus awoke today to
find the camu had grown considerable
in population since last evening. Quar
termaster wagons left constantly over
the road to the south during the day.
In a sage brush plain off to the side
of the camp a number of aeroplanes
were tried out. Curiously, although a
flying machine had never been seen
here before yesterday evening, today
the residents of Columbus scarcely took
the trouble to ldok at them. X'one of
the aviators have yet joined the ad
vance Columns, so far as could be as
certained here ' '
-Senator Henry Cabot Lodge !
Not until February 25, when
; president's note to Senator Stone ap
' petsreV, was any real step taken to
j protect Americans in their rights, and
that step which the president then
j took in words boldly and clearly, but
; in words alone, came only because.
his own party in the house, wer
; clamoring for the public surrender of
t American rights in ortfer to concili
' nte one belligerent and its voters. Tho
j democratic party showed itself to be
! worse than its own administration.
I There is, it would seem, a point of
i humiliation at which tho president
j step, definitely, I trust, firmly, I
! hope. There is no such point appar
ently to be, found-In, the action f
j the party to which he belongs.
I "We ai-e told the great cry of the
j democratic party is to be that their
! president has kept teace. The virtue i
! of keeping of the peace depends alto- J
j gether on how it i kept. You can
' always keep the peace If you will
! submit to, any wrong, to any outrage,
' to iny oppression. The peace of .this
country would nave been tar better
kept, we should be in far less danger
cf war today or of war when peace
comes among the warring nations of
Europe, if we had kept it without,
humiliation, kept It in honor and
without fear.
"We all want peace, we all are
against war, if it can possibly be
avoided; but ..we shall insist, we re-
publicans at least, that American.
I ""' i1""""-" "l '""-
i aoioao. -
No Resentment Shown Against
The Americans in Cananea
Republican A. P. Lea ert Wire
NOG ALES, March 1G. American ar
rivals here late today from Cananea
said that while tension there has been
noticeable recently, no popular resent
ment against Americans had manifest-
ed itself up to this morning. They said
they believed that the Carranza garri
son there had not been apprised Of the
departure of the American expedition.
Ueports here yesterday that two
American miners had been stoned to
death at Puerta Citas, near Cananea,
were denied by today's arrivals, it .was
said, however, that two Mexicans re
cently had been put to death at that
place by Carranza troops, presumably
as spies. i- :
The mines and smelters were report
ed working at full force.
1 Both Nogales, .A,riz., and ' Nogales,
TROOPS
PLACE OF VILLA
From Villa
ers. Hess hid iu a barn and from hi
cover saw tho four other members of
the ranch family shot down as they
tried to flee from the house. 'The ban
dits then collected all the horses on the I
place and having secured their girl
prisoner rode away.
For three days Hess wandered about
the country trying to find some way of
reaching the border. - He finally was
able to flag the Madera Lumber com
pany's special train and arrived safely
in Juarez.
SECRECY STILL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON", March 10. An im-
penetrable wall of secrecy surrounded
tonight the movements of American
troops beyond the Mexican border. So
far as official Washington was advised
the columns might have vanished into
thin air after they crossed the inter
national border yesterday in pursuit of
Villa. Even the commander-in-chief,
t President Wilson, did not know where
j General Pershing's men were.
Secretary Baker received virtually no
reports from General Funston dealing
with events beyond the border. Lata
today he said he did not know whether
tho troops had proceeded southward
from their first advance on Mexican
soil List night. The only disiwrteh from
the border made public during the day
reported the death of Lieutenant Zell,
Eleventh cavalry, at the Columbus hos
pital, where he took his own iife In
a fit of despondency.
Array officials were convinced that
no important developments -were to be
expected for several days. It seemed
plain' from the day's accumulation of
Tumors that Villa was far to the south
of his American pusuers.
The war department would not AU
vulgo any details of the number of
(Continued on Page Three)
; SURROUNDS ALL
! TROOP MOVES
i
BOX CARS FOR REFUGEES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LATtEDO. Texas. March 1. Travel
the ing the entire distance in box cars.
Consul C. A. Williams and eighty-six
other Americans arrived here late to
day from Torreon, Mexico, having left
tiie Mexican city, they said, because
they were convinced it was the best
thing to do. Eleven Americans joined
the party at Monterey.
There were a number of American
women in the party, including Mrs.
CALLES TAKES PRISONER WHO HAS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
- DOUGLAS, March tC General P.
KUias Calles, military governor of o
nora, reported officially to General
Alvaro Obregon, Mexican war rnin
ister, today that his command had
captured a, prisoner who revealed
Villa's plans find wherealxiuts in de
tail. Copies of this report. General
.Calles said, were forwarded to Gen
eral Gavira by him and to the United
States army officers at Columbus.
The man was captured at Dos- Ca-
bezos and was in the attack on Co-
lumbus, Calles said, and added:
"He informs me that Villa after
a-nauii. vem. u... . .
ramus rum-n uiieie n uwiucu-u .v
Sonora, continued ijuiet tonight. Unit
ed States soldiers under the command
on patrol duty 'every few hundred feet
throughout the American city. For the
first time in several days no Carranza
poldiers were seen in the streets on the
j Sonora side today. It was reported
that the small garrison had been with
drawn to the hills south of the city.
Few Americans crossed to the Mexican
side, but those who did reported they
received courteous treatment.
M. J. Kingsbury, superintendent of
the Sonora division of the Southern Pa
cific of Mexico, returned tonight form
an inspection trip to Guaymas and sa,id
that there were few signs of disturb
ances in western Sonora. For several
days an armed man has been aboard
every, Southern Pacific train between
Tocaon and Nogales.
- , ! - '...'-
Seventh and Tenth United
States Cavalry Said to Be
Approaching the Villa
Territory In the Casa8
(i randes Region
WITH-MIXIMUM
OF EQUIPMENT
Troops Are Led By Scouts
from Monnon Colonies
If Villa Intends to Offer
'; Resistance He Should Be
Encountered Soon
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Texas. March 1?. Thu
Seventh and Tenth cavalry, said to be
advancing into Mexico by forced
marches from Culbertson's ranch near
Hachita, X". M., were nearing the Villa
territory in theCasas Grandes region,
tonight, according to the most reliable
information which could be obtained
here.
These troops were reported to be
marching with the minimum of equip
ment nnd to be led by scouts from the
Mormon coloniesat Colonia. Dublan
and Colonia Morales. From their point
of departure the distance is eighty-five
miles to Casas Grandes and the start
was made early yesterday morning.
If Viila intends to offer any organized
resistance to his pursuers it might be
possible for United States soldiers to
come in contact with'his outlying phsts
very soon.
The American expedition is penetrat
ing Mexico under ideal weather condi
tions. The hot season will not u
reached for a month or six weeks, and
if the windmill wells are not dried up.
the water supply situation should, hn
relieved.
Definite information that the Mor
mon settlements with their 500 Ameri
can men, women and children were safo
and.iinmolested was brought here today
by Daniel Hurst, son of r. It. Hurst,
the Mormon bishop resident here. Ml.
Hurst brought news understood to bn
of .much military importance, which
was forwarded to General Pershing.
Hurst refused to make public its na
tnreor details.
According to Hurst, Villa has at most
4d men, some of whom ore wounded.
He said also that it was not believed,
in the Mormon eofonies that the bandit
(Continued on Page Two)
William;;. Consul Williams said he
would remain at Laredo or near the
Mexican border pending instructions
from the state department. Other
members of the party said a few un
married American - men remained in
Torreon. Dnrango City, it was said by
several of the American refugees, is cut
off entirely from all manner- of com
munication with the outside. There are
said to be at least twenty Americans
there.
en cowboys because they refused to
give him horses. From Corralitos he
went to chocolate, where he stopped
on the thirteenth. From there he
went direct to Galeana."
This is 'the first prisoner known to
have been captured since Villa's raid.
He is being held in Agua Prieta.
Three hundred thousand rounds of
rifle ammunition, the first shipment
of a consignment of 700,000 rounds,
will be delivered tomorrow to Gene
ral Calles by the local customs offi
cials. The. cartridges are, to be used
by the detachment of Carranza sol
diers led by Colonel Dato Campbell,
former commander of the Mexican
garrison at Agua -Prieta, in aiding
United States troops to capture Fran
cisco Villa and his bandits.
The ammunition, which, has been
held up here by customs officials
since Sunday, was released late today
by ' orders from , Washington. This
action in aiding the de facto troops to
obtain the Cartridges, it was declared
by Ives Lelevier, Mexican consul
here, would ba of material benefit In
assuring many residents of Sonora,
"a- me i-nuea Kiates intended no
Wrve action against the Mexican
government.
"It proves" he added, "that the
American government has confidence
in the intention of the Mexican gov
ernment to cooperate with the United
States soldiers in pursuing the ban
dits of Villa. Many Mexicans hava
believed that' the, ammunition would
be held up indefinitely."
According, to Mr. Lelevier, the re
mainder of the ammunition purchased
by the de facto government should
reach Douglas within a day cr two
by express. . It is to be sent imme
diately upon arrival to the Carranza
troops operating in eastern Sonora to
cut ' off Villa's retreat- in that direction.
PLANS OF IIILLA IN DETAIL
