VNOZIUV 'XINSOHd
V AMriqri IB(JOjjjti
WEATHER
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 8, 25.92.
Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, MARCH 17, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VOL. 18, NO. 251.
2Sr ft
Oj) 4 ft
JUUi
BIPLAHES ARE
SENT ACROSS
BORDER 10
MEXICO
Two Army Aeroplanes Leave
Columbus, N. M., at Sun
set to Join Army, Said to be
"Somewhere in Mexico."
PERSHING RETURNS
FOR CONFERENCE
Wounded Villa Bandits Are
Found in Palomas. Base
of Hospital is Established
in El Paso. .
(By Norman M. Walker.) j
EL PASO, March 1C Two biplane? I
arose from the plains of Columbus, cir- j
clej like giant birds in the air and
daned oft" to the south this evening at
sunset to join the column of invasion
which is bivouncins "somewhere in
Mexico," for the second lap of the
Ions ;ourney after Fancno uia, tna
bandit.
Where the American column is to
nicht: where they will march tomor-'
ro-x. and what has happened since
tli-y tramped across the border re
mains as much a mystery tonight as
if the cloud of dust, which enveloped
them, had been a curtain to shut them
out of the world. The censorship is
rigid and is beir.g respected by all of
the correspondents on the border as
a matter of American honor and no
one has violated the last request of :
Cenere.l Pet-shin? before he left for the j dealing with events beyond the border, f to be paid a fee for every recruit e
:outh, that nothing be said of the'He said he did not know whether the -rolled with a fee for the doctor's
troops movements beyond the Doraer.
After accompanying the main column
rcioss the border General Pershing re
turned across the line today and held
a long conference by wire with his stir
perior officer. General Funston, at
FoH Sam Houston. He then rode back
across the line in his little Ford and
is spending the night tonight with his
boys." below the border with the
around for a bed and the moonlight for
his candle. When he returned Gener
al Pershing sent a message to Fort
ti:.. . ioKiiii hap hrwiiitdl here ;
r.lira iv -.-, a "
where all of the seriously wounded
American soldiers will be received by j
the motor ambulances and be treated j
in the new quarters which are now
being arranged. A relay hospital will.
Iro be established at . Columbus, a;
field hospital at Palon as and a dress
ing station immediately in the rear of
the first line troops.
To avoid having any men to care
for at this field hospital General
Pershing ordered all of the physically
unfit out of the lanks at the line and
a car load of them reached here to
night for the fort base hospital.
When the Ameiican troops entered
Las Palomas, across thp border yes
terday afternoon, more than 30 Villa
tandits were found in hiding in the
homes where they had gone after be
ing wounded by the United States
troops in Columbus. They were suffer
ing terribly from their wounds whiih
had not been treated and many had
rtnerene and magots in their wounds.
Thoy were sent to Columbus for treat
ment. The body of Jose Pereyra. Carran-
za's personal representative in Colum
bus to walch ViMa's movements, was! did not snecifv the conditions he view
also found bv the invading column a- ed as alarming. Another consul at
cross the border in Mexuo. Pereyra
was captured by Villa in the Comiuer-
cial Ho'el and was being led away
to be tortured when an American bul
let mercifully ended his life. He was
identified by his hat band. Villa's
bodyguard and his paymaster were ar
rested here tonight, the latter being
wounded.
Villa snipers were at work again
tf-dpy. One fin'd on a Texas and Paci
fic train within five miles of the city
and the bullet hit three inches above
the hend of the eneineer, Tony With
holder. The sniper thought the pas
senger train was a troop train carrying
the 11th Cavalry to Columbus. A part
of this command crossed this after
noon into Mexico, and the remainder
i expected to cross to Join General
Pershing tomorrow. General G.orgl
Pell. Jr., is rapidly whipping his ten
tative expeditionary force of the sec
ond line into ?hape and it will be rea
dy to move into Mexico by Sunday if
it is needed.
NAMED BY HOOSIER
G. O. P. FOR SENATE
' Harry S. New.
In the recent state wide pi..
in Indiana Harry S. New was nom
inated by the Republicans for United
States senator. He will be opposed
by Senator John W. Kein in the No
vember elections.
SriEGTlBOOT
ALL IVES OF
THE Jl
Complete and Impenetrable
Wall Surrounds the Move
ments of U. S. Forces in
Their Bandit Search.
WASHINGTON. March ltt. An im
penetrable wall of secrecy surrounded
the movements of American troops be
yond the Mexican border. As far as
officials at Washington are advised
columns might have vanished after
the crossing in pursuit of Villa. Even
officials do not know where Pershing's
men are. Secretary Baker received
vjrtniiy no sports from Funston,
troops had proceeded southward from
the first bivouac on Mexican soil of '
last nieht. j
Army officials are convinced no im-:
portant developments are to be ex-1
Dected for several davs. It seemed i
plain from the accumulation of rumors
that Villa is far south of his American
S. &? ,
pursuers. Officials displayed some Iar army m all departments, u pro
concern over the situation in the Tarn-' vides for a peace strength of 178.OU0.
pico district where there are signs of First in importance in all the bills,
mire"' The battleship Kentucky was army officials declare, are the provi
ordered back to Vera Cruz from New-Ions for the organization of federal
Orleans.
Daniels explained the war-1
ships now at Vera Cruz were notice national guara. i ne
equipped with wireless powerful e-i-Axes a minimum force of 400.000 for
nough to insure uninterrupted com-! the Kuard within five years, wlule the
munication with Washington. j ?!?iteJ" 20;?' Pa
The War Department will not di-1 FORCED MACHES
vulge ,the details of the number of!
troops in the expedition or the regi-i FRENCH SHIP ATTACKED
Tents sent. Press advices showed NEW YORK. March 16. The French
that infantry accompanied the cavalry sleamer Patria of the Fabri Line, car
and artillery out of Columbus, t he j rving among passengers 29 Americans
main column. That menas slow prog-1 jncuains an American consul, was at
ress across the desert. It will take tacked without warning by a submar
days to cover the distance to Galena, , ine o(r ,hp Algerian coast March 1. ac
the last town in which Villa is report- ;rordin? to her captain on the arrival
ed unofficially to have been.
American consuls in .Mexico, so iar. The ,orpe(j missed the ship by about
have been able to give little aid to the ;2o feet
troops, although all are watching forj Th ony un0ffjcial advices concern
information that might indicate the inR the rep0rle(i submarine attack on
bKPdits' movements. tne Iiner iatra reached the Slate De-
Wit h the Kentucky at Vera Crtiz.!partment toniKi,t. but officials indieat
the reports of smaller vessels along ed an investigation of the incident
the coast can be relayed quickly to;woud probably be ordered tomorrow.
Key West and Arlington.- The State , A report is, jj to have been forward
nenartment had denied that other rnln ijsh0n and sunnosed to be
American consuls than Williams at
Torreon. have left their posts. Will-
iams. it is snld. merely represented he ! ppdo asPrn of th Patria can be es
was leaving because of rumors. He tablished, it will be difficult for the
r... ml 1, n-nn 1t lafiva Hut 1 1 1 .1
iiP ."nut I.,-.- urn
chfneed his mind, saying the situation
hH cleared.
Curranra has not replied to the Am :
orioan note annnnnclni! the acceptance
of his pronosai for reciprocal action on
the border. ThP fact that his troonsis
are evidently cooperating with the
American columns is viewed as an-j
swer enoueh. j
in- u.i.-inaiiurni i-nm m.- .... ..i- rlhp n,,ijtarv governor or Sonora. re
in" a hi.! tep rin. ahont the handirs . portP to General Obregon. the Mei !
''r tii ftolv closine in on all sides
npnrrt from core of recruiting a
pnnotes. roonpned throughout the coun
trv. hepan to reach the War TVnart
meit. Thv contained little informa
tion. Rv the end of the week Adjutant
Genera' M"Cain enects to have fight
ers araftohle on t number of nnpli-
r-ns. Not rnnre than on in f ve nu-
allv proves arrestable. The flrt re-
nnrt are erpectd to ind'ruto the
ni-c.r.nr.1- time required to nhtain thj Villa, after the attack, went to Corro
n nnn Congress voted to add to Iho litos and murdered seven cowbovs'
army. who refused to give their horses. I'he
DEFENSE ACTS'
RUSHED IN
CONGRESS .
President Summons Leaders
of House and Urges Speed
in Passage cf National De
fense Measures.
SENATE WILL ALSO !
ACT IMMEDIATELY
Legislation Will Be Given Pre
cedence Over All Other
Matters Now Pending in
Congress.
WASHINGTON, March 16. Sweep
ing aside the intervening issues Con
gress has set the stage for prompt
action on the defense measures so"
ursently pressed by Wilson since the
session began. The House voted
unanimously a special rule under
which the increase in the army bill
will be taken up tomorrow,, with a
prospect of passage by Saturday night.
The Senate Military Committee has
completed a final review of the in
crease bill and Bent it to the printers.
Senator Chamberlain will insist that
it be taken up promptly displacing the
water power bill, now under consider
ation, unless the latter reaches a vote
in a few days. While the naval pros-
ram appears to progress more slowly, (
possibly it w ill be completed sooner
than the army.
The House acted alter the Presi
dent had summoned the leaders and
urged them to make haste as i dety
to the nation. Although the rules
adopted allowed only, ten hours gen
eral debate, there will probably be ex
tended discussion under the standing
rule providing for five minute speech
es after the general debate.
The Senate committee change in
cluded a porvision for the designat'nc
of postmasters as recruiting agents
preliminary physical examination. The
essential difference between the
House and Senate bills lies in the
regular army. The House proposes
to add new organizations and give a
otal peace strength of 150,000 fighti.ig
men. The Senate provided for a
sweeping reorganization f the regu-
volunteers, aner u.e .eueraiizaL.uu .
'of the ship from Mediterranean ports.
coming bv n-ail.
of the submarine.
Unless the identity
which sent the tor-
government to act.
The embassies at Rerlin and Vienna
, . ...I . ...1. t . : t
( niay im- insirucirii io hsk iui niiuima-
'tion. but unless Germany and Austria
! admit responsibility thP case can hard
y be regarded as warranting formal
representations. Official information
regarding the sinking of the Tubania
i 1
also lacking.
VILLA PLANS FOUND?
DOUGLAS. March lfi GVn. Calles,
can War Minister, that his command
had captured a prisoner who revealed
Villa's plans and whereabouts in de-
tail.
Copies of the report. Calles said.'
have been forwarded to General Givi-j
ra and bv him to the United States
officers at Columhtis. The man who
was captured at Dos Csheza. Called
9hm. jn the attack at Columbus j
"He informs me." laid Calles. "that I
IF INTERVENTION IN MEXICO SHOULD BECOME NECESSARY,
PLANS LONG MAPPED OUT BY WAR COLLEGE WOULD BE USED
YW . .v7 k s
Vz- y l( I VV lfrv J vai, .a
Y l kl
it should Secome necessary
the United States to pacify and po
lice Mexico, the , plans of operation
are all mapped out by the war col
lege at Washington. According to
these plans, there would be two main
troop movements into Mexico. One
would be through Texas and into
Mexico wholly by land. The second
would be over sea to Vera Cruz and
from there inland. This second
movement, to insure success, would
need at least lUO.HOt men. The pro-pn.-ej
movement.-, are sScwn by ar
rows on the map.
SHERIFF WITS
Two Machine Guns and Many
Rounds of Ammunition
Seized From Seven Mexi
cans.
TOMBSTONE. March 16 (Special)
In response to numerous requests
from various parts of the county that
precautions be taken to prevent im
possible outbreak of the Mexiuin
population. Sheriff Harry Wheelt-i.
this evening, wired General Funston
at Fort Sam Houston asking that a
small squad be posted in each of the
unprotected camps.
The sheriff's telegTam follows-
"General Frederick Funston: If
possible, will you station a small de
tachment of United States f oopa it
the following exposed towns and
camps in Cochise county: Tombstone,
Paradise, Bowie, San Simon, Dragoon.
Johnson, Willcox, Gleason, Pearce,
Light. Apache, Censon, Cochise,
Courtland and Hereford.
"Any of these camps have a pre
dominating Mexiean-Villista popula
tion. Citizens are alarmed and. al
though I do not anticipate trouble,
still the presence of United States
troops, even in small squads, will
alley friction and fear of both races.
These factors I deem the most prob
able source of danger, if any. v
"HARRY C. WHEELER, Sheriff."
More Guns Captured.
While patrolling Garden Canyon, at
an early hour this-morning, several
troopers from Fort Huachuca en
countered seven Mexicans, having in
charge a large pack train, consisting
of many burros. In the packs were
found two machine gnns and many
thousand rounds of ammunition.
The Mexicans were placed under rr
rest and taken to Fort Huachuca
where they are now being held, pend
ing an investigation of the affair. I
is'very probable the guns and ammu
nition will be confiscated an I thi
the Mexicans held to the Unite!
States court on the charge pf con
spiracy to foment revolution.
One of the peculiar features, in con
nection with the capture, is the fact
that he machine Runs are not of the
pattern used by the United States
Army. It is thought the pack train
was on its way to Sonora. by way of
a trail which leads to the adjoining
republic by way of Garden Canyon.
ENSEN ADA IS QUIET.
SAN" DIEGO. March 16 The de
stroyer Stewart, dispatched to Ense
nada last night, erulrned, the com-,
nandor reporting normal conditions
at the Iiwer California port. I
Only about twenty Americans are(
at Ensenada. according to Lieut.'
Wills, commanding the Stewart, but I
others are in the immediate vicinity. I
went to Chocolate, where he stopped!
on the thirteenth. From them he;
went direct to Galena." ThJ ia the
first prisoner known to have been
captured since the raid. He is held
at Agua Pritta.
PROTECTION
FOR TOWNS
I
for
AMERICANS REACH BORDER.
LAREDO, T-x.. March 16.
Traveling in box cars. Consul
Williams and 45 Americans ar
rived late today from Torreon.
having left because they were
convinced it was the best thing
to do. A number of American
women, including Mrs. Wil
liams, were in the party.
Williams said he would re
main near the border pending
instructions. Members of he
party said a few unmarried
men had remained at Torreon.
I )u run go City is reported cut
off entirely from communica
tion with tl e outisde. There
are said to be at least 20 Amer
icans there.
Tenth and Seventh Cavalry
Regiments Supposed to Be
Nearing Villa Territory in
Region of Casas Grandes.
EL PASO, March, 16. The Seventh
and Tenth Cavalry are said to be ad
vancing into Mexico on forced march
es from Culbersons Ranch near Ha
chiia and are nearing Villa territory in
thp Casa Grande region, according to
most reliable Information. They are
reported to be marching with the min
imum equipment and led by ' scouts
from the Mormon colonies of. Colonia
Duhlnn and Colonia Morales. ' If Villa
intends resistance it is possibly the
contact will be soon. Definite infor
mation of the Mormon settlements of
500 American men. women and chil
dren are safe was brought by Daniel
Shun, son of tlip Mormon bishop.
Accordingto Hurst, Villa has only
400 men. some of them wounded. It
is also believed at the Mormon colony
that he only had 500 when he raided
Columbus. Consul Garcia says he is
satisfied that Villa has disbanded
most of his men and intends to takft
refuge in the heart of the Sierra Ma
dres. Thousands of men are not need
ed to capture Villa, is Garcia's belief.
A reward will do the work.
A flat denial that Carranza troops
are with the American expedition, was
made by General Gavira, commander
at Juarez. Fresh troops are in Juarez
but Mexican authorities refusP. infor
mation as to the number. Trains load
ed with provisions crossed from the
American side. The destination is
kept a secret.
BRITAIN DON'T KNOW.
LONDON. March 16. The British
Foreign Office is not In formed of ajiy
instance in which British consular
corps are taking over the interest! uf
American consuls in Mexico. It said
British consuls would fcJadly do 4 If
necessity rose. It le feared, bowser,
be Mexlran? fU uwk little distinc.
Hon between American and Pritlfh
consuls.
FORCEDmARGHES
I FOR WESTERN
! FORGES
DEMOCRATS
New England Senator Says
' Wilson's Administration Is
i Worse Than Any With Ex
I ception of Buchanan's.
! LVXX. Mass.. March 16. The Ad
ministration was criticised by Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge in an address in
S which he announced himself as a can
didate for re-election. He spoke b
fore the Lynn Republican Club.
! "In my opinion." said Ixidge. "with
the exception of the administration of
jKuchanan. no administration in power
IIH Ufl'll SU IllJIlIlllUn III lilt? L Illlt'U
States, both at home and abroad, as
that which now controls Vahington."
After condemning the tariff and tax
ation legislation Lodge attacked the
foreign policies of the administration
and said the national defense plans
'suggested by Wilson "had been proved
on analysis to be partly shams and
wholly inadequate."
j Continuing he said. "The responsi
bility for conditions in Mexico rests
largely on the government of the Un
ited Stales. The present administra
tion found ihp relations in bad comli-
'tion and made these infinitely worse."
' "We are told the great cry of the
Democratic party is that their Presi
dent kept peace. 'e all want peace,
but shall insist, we Republicans, ar
least, tbat American rights be pro
tected at home and abroad."
i
THE OTHER SIDE
CONCORD. N. H.. March lfi. In a
detailed eulogy of the executive and
legislative branches of the federal gov
ernment under Democratic control, de
livered by Senator Owen of Oklahoma
at a Jackson Day dinner of New IJamp
shire Democrats, he said: "All these
bills the tariff. Federal reserve. Clay
ton anti-trust, federal trade commis
sion and seaman's act. have one pur
pose the promotion of the common
good, the abasement of monoply, tlui
bettermet.t of mankind and the lower
cost of living."
"Perhaps the greatest accomplish
ment and onp for which the people
are more deeply grateful, is that the.
Jresident has kept us out of war. An
administration less wise and thought
ful might easily have been swept into
war with Mexico. Germany. Austria or
'.Great Ilritain and the Allies."
MARE ISLAND GETS CONTRACT.
' VALLEJO. March 16.-Mare Island
authorities were notified the navy
I yard's bid for the construc tion of tttr
I bine engines for destroyer tiS. now be
jltig built at the yard, was the lowest
onerea. n is regarcien as certain me
contract will be awarded. The price
was $119,000, Jtr.000 less than the
eastern bidders.
IN CHARGE OF BRITISH.
W16HINOTON. March, 16. Ameri
can Consular Ageut Williauie. af
Tonrenn. notified the State Depart
ment be bad placed bis consulate in
charge of the British vice consul.
GERMANS ARE
REPULSED IN
INFANTRY
ATTACK
French Succeed in Inflicting
Defeat to Teutons When
Latter Attempt Infantry
Movement Near Verdun.
ITALIANS FIGHT ON
THE 1SONZO FRONT
Dutch Steamer, Bound For
South America, is Sunk Off
Noord Hinder Lightship.
Crew and Passengers Saved.
LONDON. March 16. Repulse at
the hands of the French again was
the result of an attack by Gentian in
fantry, launched after the heay
bombardment of French positions at
Le Mort Homme, northwest of Ver
dun. The Germans attacked in ser
ried massei and were driven eastward
toward Bois des Corbeaux. where the
French guns inflicted heavy losses.
The attack on Le Mort Homme was
! (he only infantry' maneuver on the
entire French front, but from Belgium
to the Vosges artillery duels are num
e roils. Around Douaumont and the
village of Vau.x. the big guns operat
ing have redoubled their violenrP and
I southward in the Meii-te hills, artillery
fighting continues.
The altest official German communi
cation, iu making reference to the
, French attempt to "dispute our pos-
' session of the height of Le Mort
Homme" brought a statement that the
Germans never bad p.iim-it a fivot n.
on the hill, which the French still
hold.
The Italians continue a strong of
fensive auaiust the Austrian on the
Isonzo front. On Prodrota Heights
the Italians entered the Austrian
lines, but according to Vienna were
repulsed with vicious hand fighting.
A Berlin semi-official dispatch gives
an Athens report that British war
ships bombarded Vurla. near Smyrna,
nearly destroying the town and killing
many greeks, which constitute the
majority of the population.
DUTCH STEAMER SUNK.
LONDON. Manh 16. The Dutch
passenger steamer Tu'iantia. bound
from Holland for South America, was
sunk by an explosion near the Noord
Hinder Light hship. All passengers,
among whom were several American,
and crew were saved. Whether it
was torpedoed, or struck a mine is
unknown. -
The steamer carried eighty passen
gers and T.00 crew. The vessel was
15.000 tons. The Tubantia left Ams
terdam Wednesday lor the Uivre.
Platte and was to stop at Falmouth
for additional p;ssetigtTs and freight.
Early wireless distress calls were
received al the Hook of Holland and
torpedo and other craft rushed to the
assistance. Some reached before she
sank and picked up passengers on
board the ships' boats. The first
flashes said it had been torpedoed.
Among the American passengers,
said to huve been aboard, were
Schard Schilling, described as an
American consul, his wife and daugh
ter. Seventy survivors were taken
to Flushing, Holland, in two torpedo
boats. Others took refuge on a light
ship and others on Dutch and Swed
ish steamers. The survivors say the
explosion was at 2: Ho this morning
just as the vessel was about to drop
anchor. Opinions vary as to whether
it was mined, torpedoed or submar
ined. American consular representatives
do not contain the name of Consul
Schilling.
ESCAPES VILLA
KL PASO. March 16 -Sam Hess, an
American employed at the Corralitos
Ranch. Chihuahua, reached here with
a story of his escape from Villa ban
dits after he watched them murder
five Mexicans and carry off a young
tirl. Mess, who has only one leg. was
looking after the horses when Villa
appeared. One rancher was immedi
ately shot. Hess hid in the barn and
saw four ethers shot who tried to es
cape. Hesg wandered fer- three daj
trying tn fjnd his way to the border.
Finally be w able to flu a train car
rying men of the Madera Lumbor
Company.
