S9H
fas?
MS?
a®
I*
v.
4'
JB
IS/
Read Today's Newt
Today for Tomorrow*
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
One Cotamit of U. Si Army
$ Acting^Under Great
MS^SeciW.
''ify
MAY HAVE ENTERED
-MEXICO IN ADVANCE
...Two -Columns Expected to Form Juno
yi tion Nmh* Casas Grandes, Whore
Mormpn Colpfly It Menaced—Report*
The secrecy which has surrounded
tiie movement of the main column has
been slight compared with the record
of this western force. It is believed
the western column may have gone
Into Mexico earlier than the main body.
sThe
~„ter ol precaution, and not because of
?f*ny overt acts of. hostility against
.A-jctiftm.
f' The mo'str^sJffhlflcant report came
from Ihir&ngo, where the American
TWm
k«»
It Will Be Hfafofj'sSfe^^
El Paso, Tex., March 17.—A few defi
nite facts about the American expedl- nated in this district,
tion into Mexico today stood out as the'
result of official published reports and
by news brought here by Americans
whO bad been In touch with some por
tion of the movement.
It seemed certain that of the two
olumns, one was constituted for speed
While the other apparently was moving
more slowly. The swift-footed column
was the auxiliary army, seemingly
mostly cavalry, which went Into Mex
ico fifty miles west of tlie main army
of General Pershing when his
crossed at Columbus, N. M.
western wing is said to have
traveled the fvthest. By these same
reports the two columns will form a
Junction near the threatened Mormon
eolonists,' possibly in the Casas
Grandes1 region.
Sniping Reports Unverified.
It is estimated here that the cost of za authorities because of the tension
the Villi pursuit afr present is upward existing between the United States and
of $40,000 per day. Mexico.
Ther is one soldier in the Carranza Several were injured. All the dead
garrison in Juarez who Is frankly antl- and injured/were Mexican's.
Carranza. He is a 13-year- old boy Immediately ,after the explosion a
a- who was captured with the Villa gar- mountainous cloud .of smoke spread
rison at Juarez and whose life was over the city, and the cry, "The Amer
spared on the condition that he turn leans have arrived," rang thru the
isagsijs Carranzista. KSs u£sc, he said today, poorer scctiss. ths srsi!i cleared
formerly was '"little Pancho Villa." away It was found that besides the
"And now," he added, "it is Httle twenty-four dead,' the railroad track
Carransa." had beeij .torn. up,, windows Shattered
"Whorp ^do you like best?" he was and other damage done for a radius
asked. of a half mile.
"Pancho Vtlla" was the.reply. The ,news of the disaster was su-
Juarez '(Ss'n'iso'n Entrenching. pressed lest it stir the peon classes to
"i Water was running today in the irari-- rise against the Americans.
g&tlon ditches back of the Juarez race 1
track, whicH etplains the report that HOUSE REPEAL8 FREE 8UGAR.
the Juarez garrison is digging trenches
brown clad trtea digging ditches. They
were workmen clearing rubbish out of
Sunday spectators at the races saw Only Fourteen Mambars Vote Aaainst Jil
run- repeal the free sugar clause of the Un
Daniel Hurst, son of Bishop B. H. derwood tariff law.
Hurst, of the Mormon church, who Four Illinois democrats voted against
reached here yestefHay from the Mor- the'repeal.' 'Xhey were Sab^tb, M«An
mon colonies, considerted his chance of drews and Buchanan, of Chicago, and
*ett!ng thro safely so uncertain that Tavenrier, of the Rook Island district.
,l_ hla. *sUi- a nAlWVl ..
Americans hi Mexico Uneasy.
0t
Rapidly growing -uneasiness among- Grosser aind'do'rdop, of Ohio Hllliard,
Americans ttrnout Mexico was evi-
irom xmrango, wnere tne American
lowed closely on the arrival on the bor
der last night of the American consul
.pt Tor^eon with a large number of
-Americans.
Withhold Facts.
of
Americans arriylng here brought1
numerous-- Simuletlng stories about
Mexicans Iti the interior, especially in
eryhtinjgr was quiet in the section from
Which they fe»me.
They explained the contradiction by
saylntf they expected to rpturn to Mex
'^Nw^when trouble was over,
*f¥
vurf •i. r..-, -.^* ?_v-
tioned he said that Villa had fled after1
the raid to Corralltos, where he mur
dered spveral cowboys and seized a
number of horses. He then started for
Oaleana, by way of Puerto Ohoco.
MINES SHUTTING DOWN.
Ameriean Owners Fear Trouble With
Employes.
Nogales, Ariz., March 17.—Reports
were received here today that numer
ous American mining tfropertles in the
Hermisbllo-Guaymas district of Sonora
are suspending operations temporarily
thru fear of dissatisfaction among the
natives as a result of the American
pursuit' of Villa. The largest of these
was said to be the Minas Prietas of the
Creston Colorado Company, ^north of
Quaymas, which was employing 1,500
men.
A train from that district tomorrow
night is expected to bring a number
of Americans. A traift leaving for. the
south today carried a number of!
Americans, none of which expressed
any fear.
A train of Carranza troops, who have
been encamped a few miles south of
of Shooting of 8oldiers by Snipers Nogales, Sonora, left today to rein
force the garrison'at Cananea. An am
munition car said to be carrying about
500 rounds was attached..
Not Verified—^American Troops Not
to Garrison Mexican Cities.
Both the American military men
and the Carranza authorities here are
making every attempt to discourage
sensational ^reports which have origl-
Trouble Near Border.
Del Rio, Tex., March 17.—One hun
dred fifty
(Mexicans
MORMONS AS SCOUTS.
Colonists Leading U. S. Troops on
Chase After Villa.
San Antonio, March 17.—Brigadier
General Pershing's dispatches to the
southern department headquarters.con
flrm reports that Mormon eolonlsts
from Colonia Dublan andColonia Mor
rales are acting as scouts for the ex
pedition.
U1V1UII,
aa,
Reports that snipers had shot at the haVe penetrated into Mexican territory.
'remained unverified today. Colonel Dodd, commanding the Sev
HoWever'sniping, and even the possl- enth And Tenth cavalry, makes no re
bty killingand wounding of a few ports direct to General Funston but is
iMldicj^fj^y thei* I0®«j^ra$pe In wireless con^piuni^atlon with Gen
was sot regarded eaf er»l persfifef*'
'tr wfrotherwliSthan a peaceful r^a^hfrtfrtTiett^de-of •SSm&o^AU.'fa^
pedltlon ,m6- far a«i the majority qf the wa^Tft»i?§yp|pt!S^^
American side of this section, with the reports there is cohsiderable excite
difference that on this side the sharp- nuent in the lower Rio Grande region,
shooters have had -a small target to
shoot at, such as a horseman, an auto- EXPLOSION KILLS TWENTY-FOUR.
mobile or a railroad train.
Not to Occupy Cities.
Carranza officials, it was learned to
day, have been discussing with some"
concern/-whether American troops, dur
ingthe Villa pursuit would have tooc
^bupy any MexIcan -cities and the effect
pf Such occupation on the populace.
The k.m6rtcan army's choice of the
~ChIhuahua"desert as Its place of entry
precludes for the present *such a prob- reaching here today from Monterey,
iem as city garrison duty. The hews was supressed by Carran-
4-£
who organized
across the bord.er from Pinto, twenty!
miles east of here yesterday have
moved inland, according to word!
reaching here today*. American guards
have been redoubled. A detachment of
United States troops was sent to the
scene.
Battleship to Vera Crux,
New Orleans, March 17.—The battle
ship Kentucky sailed today for Vera
forces Cruz. Capt. D. E. Dismukes said the
warship carried her full complement
of officers, bluejackets and mirines.
Irrteatlon ditches that the water might yesterday afternoon, voted 346 to 14 to P.r!?idfri.Lould.
h« rtii^ pai* )/hlVt^ip^^under a coach- Th^'othM ^moc^Woppostiik Trwere!^R® "0m"}Rrmy
Colorado Howard,-- of
1
Oeoiwla
denced today by reports that Amerl- johnson, of K«ntt»oky Thompson, of
cans weire .Slther on their way to the Oklahoma, and Van Dyke, of Minne- ,e"rol^a
•border wr were prepared to leave.
sota,
At pnoHtftfly every point of entry house Supported the.repeaL^
-T Amerlcaos lurived today from the ln-| -v^
terlor,^ but In the majority of instances 1
they sald they were leaving as a mat-
CHARGES AGAINST
CITY EMPLOYES
-'.r •. f'.:
a ti
RI..W. wi...
consul advised that his wife and child JolebiSent motion was Mifried hy. only think
be sent out .of the country. This fol-'
Lumber—Play at Ifbtitles, Alleged.
Special to Tlmesi^|imblU»^|«§:j|i^:M
Council Bluff a, March 17.—^Something
ation w'a'# dretited. In pollti-
of HenM.tion
ca^
Xhirango, Chihuahua and Couhlla, but following an executive: session'of the
lnvarlabiir th,ey told theBe stories prl- eity council, it beOMike known' that
and public olrclfeS'here taday when,
vately and when asked to make-any Alderman Harding, chairman of-streets Budget Proposals and Wsr: ^T«x-/JB(lls
had been guilty of appropriating city war taxes.
appro
•"•"A Me^l'cih arrlvlng from Chihuahua lumber and of emi?lpytng men on their Br. Helfferlch insUteft i|itt^
Hed all was quiet thee yes» private enterprises who thdy said-were cesslty of earaomy In ^ratjjklaK
urlder pay,pf the«|ty. MsiyorSnyde* budget, saying:
r-fhe fexi.b«n consul hea-e,received a and member* of t^| council. whUe re- "We shaU put on th» ttrijli|i"
fSletram from jGenerai, Caiiles sayin* tttJuirig irom disuaairn^f the merits of 'ever we can." fv.
dwiSM,
ii mi— ..Of 'dftmoWfttln-ttrtli
rfamrteaa. Tf ik
Five Successive Night As
saults Made to East of
Stronghold*
PARIS CLAIMS ALL
WERE REPULSED
Vienna's latest reports declared
Italian attacks on the. Austrian
lines have decreased in violence.
There were' probably' some cas
ualties in the sinking of the Dutch
liner TubAntla by a mine or tor-.:
pedo.
Paris, March 17.—Jmpqrtant infan
try assaults on the French lines- east
of Verdun were made by the Germans
Absolute sedrecy 1s maintained hero' during the night. Five successive on-
.Jll® distance, the American troops slaughts ln force were, repulsed by the
French.
Two French Attaeke Fa4l.
Berlin, via Lpndon, 3j[^irch U.—The
these were unsuocessful,' ft
clared.
at
were killed in an explosion of a car
load of grenades and artillery ammuni
tion in the yards of the National rail
way lines ,W Monterey, Mexico, lasl
Tuesday, according to passengers
Ml .' I 'J'
a numoer or Broken Up by French Curtain of-FirOj1 been wtihdrawn ^om the banks for
According to French War Office Re
ports—Germans Claim to Have Re
pulsed French Assaults on Positions
Held by Kaiser's Forces on Dead
Man Hill.
—i'
The German drive at the Verd'uH*
defenses has again shifted its di
rection. Strong assaults, were made
by the Germans on the line east of.
Verdun during the night. Five
successive assaults in the Vaux
region were repulsed by the
French, Paris reports.
The German assaults were moat
violent, but each was broken up by
the French curtain of Are, accord
ing to French war office reports.
Altho a bombardmeht has been
continued in the region of Dead
'Man Hill, infantry attacks, there
have not been renewed,
Important operations may be de
veloping along the southern part of
the Russian front, as ^Vienna re
ports increasing activity by the ar
tillery on both sides.
de-
British Army in Retreat.
Berlin, March 17.—The British forces
on the Tigris, below Kut-El-Amara,.
began a general retreat after their je- standing army.
BRITISH RECRUITING WAR.
Division in Calling Up lifted as an anti-preparedness
nvai*i.«an*itUln«*
clscu
explained.
Agitation Causes Temporary Halt.
wat.^* .. London, of aJlS!
5.^hfjhalf baked recruits. Those who ad-
Pennsylvtffila Callaway,rof Texas
the
Washmgton^March" 17°—^Che*
house' but there little doubt ^at"the
affltatleri pij the ___
.. .® .part df married men h^s interferred for a peace strength of 140,000 fighting
those who voluntarily enrolled under
democrats. Bvery r^publican in allowed to conUpue ih thelr occu-
r'?u.,non
Councilman A««uses Officials of ,ai* rotes.
Padding Payroll* and Appropriating This is the most serlodV ^ivfifiqVthe
caution government ha*£-yetr f^ce'd.*
men'
of married men has beejp only jariefly troops.
postponed.
Among the proposals now consid
ered is that of extending the age for
IWOIfil
MAESHALLTOWN, IOWA, FRIDAY, MARCH 17,1916
is nothing tout duty and a foresight for
a coming day,"
After stating that war expenses were
not, included in the budget he refered
to the fact thatllte Influence of the war
was noUceable^w the Increase in the
Interest on th£ publtei&ebt, which was
1,268,000,000 mark* laa&y«ar «nd is now
2,303,000,000 m*rks. H«isaid the budget
showed a deceit: of itaOWMMW marks,
wh)fch was to toe couiped toy slew war
Need 1
(*0000(100 Marks Weekly.
Dr. HelffericdU'took. exception to the
statement that he has aaid no new
taxes were 'contemplated during the
war. In fact he had said new taxes
should be avoided. He urged the relch
stag to expedite the financial legisla
tion, saying the new taxes would pro
vide 10,WO,000 marks each week lor
carrying on the war.
German savings banks, the secretary
continued, now have deposits of 500,
000,000 marks in excess of 1914, In ad
dition to which 4,500,000,000 marks has
wafrloan investme
Apparently No Opposition
to General Plan of
Preparedness.
SPEAKER CLARK TO
URGE-ITS ADOPTION
No Opponent of Plan Has Asked For
Time, Altho Forty Members Desire
to Speak on Bill—Providee For Army
of 144,00 Men, Limit of Peace Time
Recruitment-A-H ay Opposed to Two
Year Enlistment,
™Wtee, and ?Rep'resen{3tive
So far as known no one Will oppose
aaure,
hut
several favor a larger
feat near Felshie, on .March 8, with the -Speaker Clark, who will deliver an 'fact that the vessel was sunk at almost
Turks in pursult, according to today's address in support of the measure, 'he same time that announcement was
Carload of Carranza Ammunition
Monterey Blows Up.
rii-- if* .n .i -r-w ui tuc meosUTe. i-nat aiMiuuiivriutiii wao
OMn ^0rK,nn'
ln the
further calling np nf fyrther g-rotins than 171,000 fvoinsive of" aux'Hsrv
married men is due to '.Idle fact that, desire no re-enllstment. The back-
PatlonS. T..: .'.
Vets Shews Serlous^OIvision. S
The seriousness of the^ situitlon was
reflected in the house where the mete
hers showed the state -their nxlndi
lnK?tl»«J*'noting. PaMisarJt of the nxar- „c pIUYlu
ri§d:--»«P urged a continuation of the, can be mobii
session pniil the «s««tlc2 sfrasasu- 1'^rar withoy^
o«|ti«a. xne afl- fusioi
IPW
».vw
SEVERAL LOST
man,
Representative Hay told the house
tract debate, nominally bn army esti-1.thee fact that the committee had will be increasing danger-that Germany
really covering a wide range reached .» nn9nimA,^
of topics.
mates but really covering a wide range reached a unanimous report on the RKainst her wishes may find herself in
bill indicated the fueling of the country iconlilct with neutral states.
There were many heated passages on ,the vital subject of preparing" in
regarding calling out married men. fixing 140,000 men as the strength of the change in leadership of the German
Sir John' Simon, ex-secretary for the army, he said, the committee had^marine ministry may be utilized as an
home affairs,- among others, appeared gone to what war department officials opportunity for the issuance of more
as the champion of the married nden, had testified was the limit of neace binding rules for submarine command
but fkis speech met with sharp crtiti) !time recruitment. {ere.
cism of pther champions of the mar- I A force of 250,000 regulars would' Nieu^e Courant says:.
ried men,- owing to his argument that moan compulsorj- service, to which the "*s thia Von Tirpltz'a farewell greet
tnPPft Wflfl Hn nfiTAr
rtf
A.
there was danger of over-recruiting.
It was announced that a jconfeVence
will be held Saturday at the war office
between the higher military authori
ties when the whole requirements in came to war. congress would go to any
regard to men will be discussed -r.s
ppuntry was opposed, and an annual
expenditure of $750,000 for the army
alone.
"Of course," Mr. Hay said, "if it
6 3
^d ajpd 'extei
"Applause greeted the statement.
Representative Kahn interrupted to
point out that while the bill provided
'/?mlnenceUofup
imminence war the
to more I
b.rin,e
Opposes Two-Year Enlistment.
'I do not believe," Mr. Hay said,
"that the two year enlistment would
single men to 46 years. There is. also' be a good thing. Half the time the
wou,d he
ried men because the fteling amofljt: yocate the short term Vnltotment also
composed largely of
bone of the army today is the non
coinmlssioned officer.
The proposed increase in'the army,
he explained, could be accomplished
thru a four-year enlistment as -pro
posed in the bill. He explained the
plan to federalize the national guard,
tte contended congress had full con
stitutional power to do it.
-"We provide that the national guard
mobilized at Once, in time of
rled^niett was properly s^lsd. Th? »d ftfiion of Spanish war days, "rdo'not "wh'la
any question will arise as to the
powers of congress. Ifcit if they do
arise the bill will stamdi-the test. The
-x—,— president will haw power to send the
si meetings of the- itbw^Ll &nd guard anywhera.be can-send the regu
unionist "war pommitteea^ wbicl* WW lar army."
coDSiltjite the backbone to a#y
ganised opposition, ha^..been aut^
moned for next- Tuesday.
URGES NEW WAR J.OMM-S.
"A
Before RsiehstKg.
statement* for publication insisted ev- and alleys copimittee) .has asked- ,the
ssupension from offtoe of ^Street Com- Berlin, Mlarch 17.—Dr »)skrir:Me|ffer..:''-c^nt ~Mri'^ Hitchcock stated" "even Tho
missloner J* B\ Shroyer: and Storekeep- Ich, secretary of the impftrial ti'easury. that Increase be dlsti*^ed over ftve
er C. B. Sfparks. Hardtng 'submitted introduced in the reichiftg Tksterflaj-" fears. In my opinion the increase Is
affidavits charging the two officials the budget proposals and ibilti for new
matter Is one He said it was
St ouate provisiomi -*or
the way':«f ,•
"This is nst Ml
the!
Hitchcock Files Minority Report.
.Senator Hitchcock, democrat, sub-
tfbout twice as much aa It should he.
It would give us air araty of 261.000
-men when enlisted" to full strength."
r-An
effort to pass a bill practically
to double the number of cadety at West
Stolnt, was blocked by objectlpijs by
Senator Junes, r^phbQeas
Ji There are S,0(W'#l«eeS
which have *w«r- or
liys JMtch, dv»
Sinking of Big Holland
Liner Attended With Sac
rifice of Lives.
LITTLE DOUBT SHIP
WAS TORPEDOED
Reports Indicate Was Struok Amid
ships—Several Lifeboats Shattered
by Terrifio Explosion—Holland In
censed and Threatens War if German
Submarine Policy Is Not Modified—^
Washington Orders Investigation.
Washington, March 17.—Ameri
can consuls in Holland have been
instructed to investigate the •ink
ing of the Tubantia.
Consular agents at Gibraltar and
Lisbon have been instructed to in
vestigate the unsuccessful attempt
to torpedo the liner Patria.
London, MaA:h 17.—According to
latest reports there were undoubtedly Mark'sts^and General:
some casualties as a result of the dis
aster to the Holland Lloyd passenger
:6teamer Tubantia, says a Reuter dls
p^itch from Flushing. Men from the
Ci on *TliC ha
rs hnvA .rs
O WVVtl landed by Dutch
'torpedo boats say that the vessel was
struck amidships in dense darkness ow
ing to a mist
ot\
the high sea. The ex
plosion was so great that life boats on
deck were shattered.
The Dutch admiralty states that 377
survivors from the Tubantia have ar
rived in Holland while the revised lists
of the steamship company show there
were 81 persons aboard, according to a
Reuter dispatch from The Hague.
The German oiTiclal bulletin today
(•does not mention the fighting ea«»t of
March 17.—The house the Meuse in the Verdun region. It re-
today begair consideration of the a^my P°rt8' however, two unsuccessful at
bill. it possible a final vote will be
reaobo* tomorrow night. on Dead Man heights."
FVrty speakers have asked for time,
republicans kt)d democrats being
equally represented on the iist.
d|bj
Ibats begarr-trtrw^ponent
tacks by the French orl
"our Positions
SINKING AROUSES HOLLAND.
TubantisOne of Finest 8hips of Nation
—Torpedoed, Says Captain.
The Hague, via London, March 17.—
Holland's finest
sttrred the country
ktfttf tut thfi itfAnrfur'
Tubantia^ Valued at J1,6(K).CM)0 and in-
„n]rin Kahn. sured for fl,240,000, means loss of val
ninng republican member, -appor- 'ued cargo'space not easily replaceable.
tioned-the ten hours of debate equally, The opinion accredited to the captain
that the Tubantfa was
'"'^"ithe meamn k,„ to the feeling of resentment aroused by
the
jnCident
The
•tive. Garet, of Tennesse^, at the be- .Tlrpltz as German minister of marine!
ginning of the debate. and of the statement thaNhis successor
democrat'
torpedoed adds
vaderland calls attention to the
Of .would continue submarine warfare
Ohio, led off for the bill. He had been without abatement. This paper refers +n Hi«nntoh
to the cases of the Dutch steamships
.. ^Married Mep. |bUt explained today that his opposi"- Katyk. Artemis and Bandoeng, sunk or oi^n^Berlin' reDort^'which^'afso
/was weir past(tion was only to a great standing army, .damaged as a result of German "mis- I p^1c
Time Recruitment. !takes," and says that If the Tubantia
was sunl{
b'
a
a a a a a a a
I
The
German submarine there RfirHn
Vaderland voices the hope that
ing to friendly Holland? Germany
ought to be ashamed of this fresh
proof that she has not her admiralty
commanders well in hand. They sink
neutral vessels, yet on the next oc
casion flout their government's meas
ures and promises and fire away
blindly."
A stronger note is sounded by the
Xieuwe Rotterdom Courant. whlcn
says that on matter whether the ves
sel was sunk, by a torpedo or a mine
the
country demands that such occur-
ranees cease. It declares the govern
ment must take the strongest repre
sentations to Berlin, and udds:
"The Tubantia was not a mero
tramp, she was the pride of our mer
cantile marine. EJvery responsible naval
commander would know what she was.
No
account of the disaster mentions a
warning of any kind. There Is no ex
cuse. No words can qualify this mis-1
deed. ,\ye have nothing to do with offi
cors' 'mistakes.' The German admiralty
Is responsible and demands must b»
made that definite Instructions mu?t be
given the German navy to preventSuch,
mlstaHes In the future."
iIPIAV onA v.*i£h~ seises what she likes," and the other.
The newspapers say Holland unfort
unately is. placed between two nations,' ORRRI HF
1?P K" A IV A WTIA
one of which professedly defends small EirtlnrjiV UAilArr rlA.
nations, yet "holds up our navy anl!
ror
We so-called,
freedom .of the seas, yet sinks our ships
without notice."
MILDER POLICY TO FOLLOW.
Successor to Von Tirpitz Known as
Routine Man and Not a Fighter.
Berlin, via London, March 17.—Ger-
mitted a minority report of his owiv submarine warfare will go on In the steamship Kanawha, bound from New
when the senate committee reported limits set by the German memorandum
the army bill. to neutral powers last month, but that Jork
I do not feel justified in joining my' the demands' of those who wish to see "M- Va., had sunk at ses. A boatload
of sailors froth the Kanawha was
colleagues on the recommendation that
•the standing army be increased 7*8 per
Ur
^fSSSKV'? t'
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OF~THE DAY
The Weather.
Sun rises March 18 at 8:07 sets att:10
Iowa—Partly cloudy tonight wann
er In east and central portions Satur
day.
PAOE ONE.
Telegraphic Newot
Western Column In Mexico Movea
Rapidly.
Carransa Reassures United States,
Germans Renew Attack on Verdun.
Several Lives Liost on Tubantia.
Holland Incenscd by Slaking of Shi]^'
House Debates Army Measure.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOU/I S?
Iowa News:
Cottage System For Now
tory.
Prosperous Tear Ahead For
Iowa Woman In Villa Raid.
Crooked Creek Line Sold.
Has Millions in WorthlossMoneyi
Farm Department.
PAOE 8IX.
Editorial:
Ole's Three Reasons.
It Is Their Day.
Three of a Kind.
Topics of the Times.
Iowa Opinion and Notes.
PAGES SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE, TEN,
ELEVEN.
City News:
Plunkett Estate Accepts Viaduct
Damages.
Details of Manufacturing Census.
Plans Nice Building Project.
Joyce Company to Start Planing Mill.
General and Brief City News,
PAGE TWELVE.
War Rumors Depress Wheat.
Corn Gives Way Under Heavy Soil
ing.
Cattle Steady.
Hog^ Sell Down 10 Cents.
East Takes nt Cummins.
admiralty, first as an advisory on mili
tary affairs, then in the budget de
partment, and Anally in the admlnls«
trative department. He waa looked
upon as the right hand man of Von
Tirplts until his retirement.
The Tages Zeltung, one of th»! president
strongest supporters of Admiral von
Tlrpltz, says it does not at present feel
itself in a condition to comment on
the admiral's retirement.
The Morgenpost says "there will be
universal regret that circumstances
compelled the resignation of the grand
admiral. It will be regretted there waa
no other way out."
All the newspapers pay high com
pliment to the career of Admiral von
Tlrpltz.
Navy May 8esk Battle.
Paris, March 17.—The retirement of
admiral von Tirpits is considered, ac
cordlriK to Paris, nawsrapers. to be du*
coming out of tjle German fleet, while
Emperor William desired to sea it en
gaged with the'British tfxtxseq. The
conclusion Is consequently drawn 'that
a change may be seen in thei CJerroan
naval policy and the recent appearance
of the German navy in the North
sea is a sign of action soon by the
high sea fleet.
Bethman-Hollweg May Retire.
London, March 17.—Dr. von' Beth-
.. man-Hollweg. the imperial chancellor.
AdmImi von
Tirplts Into
from Genoa to the Espress.
I rated
Bcrnard von
at
and
a
1
r" 'W"'«.''A'SfcJftS •..
Buelow
GENERAL GALIENI RESIGNS.
Man Who Saved Paris Retires From
French Ministry.
Paris, March 17.—Gen. Joseph Sim
eon Gallienl. minister of war. has re
signed because of ill health, and Gen.
CharleM K'wiue has been appointed to
succeed him.
General Gallienl. whose name will be
forever associated with the deliver
ance
of
born
ronne,
Paris In September, 1914, was
at St.
Beat, in the Haute Gar-
on
April 24,1849. Ho was edu-
the military school of St. Cyr.
during tha war of 1870 served
f^feitiMr for lour*
as
lieutenant. On the completion of his
military studies ffiiliiM had a long
spell of colonial experience, and later
held many Important commands
abroad.
He served in the Soudan and Tonkin
onrt MadntrAo^Ar Pro:
jaoi" to"i90S
I he was governor general of Madagas
car. On his return home he held the
command of tho Thirteenth army
corps and wag military governor of
I^yons. He was minister of war, and
(luring the war was appointed general
of division, military governor of Paris,
and commander in chief of the Army
of Paris.
General Gallienl Is not only a scien
tific soldier, but a man of science in a
wider sense. As a traveler-he is par-
ge°graphlCfcl
mc 800leu
and
Janeiro, via Norfolk.
man officials repeat the statement that ceived in this city late today that the
the Indiscriminate torpedoing "of
whatever co'ttfes In front of the torpedo Picked up by the steamer Santa Marta,
tubes," Will hot be fulfilled. This is
also the deduction which those ac
quainted with the ftiuatlon declare can
be drawn from th* resignation of Ad
miral v6n TTrpltX which was fore
shadowed a few days ago by reports
Of his tllnefs. This conclusion is
strengthened by the fact that Admiral
Capello has been chosen as the new
ffllaiitfif. He' Is- known merely as 'an
excellerit admloistratlve officer. not
8cten"
IS REPORTED LOST
Boatload of Sailors Said to Have Besn
Picked Up by Stumir Santa Marts
—Bound From New York For Rio
New York, March 17.—News was re-
h„
for
J"»e«ro, by way of Nor-
Cedar Falls Eliminated.
Special to Times-Republican.
Iowa City. March 17.—Cedar Rapids
81, Cedar Fills IX, was the result of
the first round in the state basketball
tournament.
Strike Situation Umriifttged,
Sioux CHy. March 7»—-The strike
In NewvY6rk having had ship command in. Uw last where some butchers ,qu{t xisterd&y, ably fatally Injured early thlsTnt^niCf
more bowutw twehty^nt# yeaw
1
.was to
Poi^thlspef^ hVhM beenatthk had beea tlireA#aMt Point, & A,
ituatton at the Cudahy packing plant .v«ar old. ot Spirit Mouaa,rS. XX,.
e_
Wanner
Partly Cloudy
NUMBER
66
U. S. SURE OF
Washington Receives Word
VqA Mexican Chief Witt
Co-operate. &m
DROOPS BEING USED
TO HEAD OFF VILLA
S' -K-I*'.'
Large Foroes of Msxloan Regular* t*
Bo Plaood to Southward «f Retreat*
ing Outlaw Foroes Wexloana Kept
Occupied in Digging Tronohas
Fol lotto Prosents Resolution Approve
ing President's Coura*.
Js1
Washington, .March 17. CatlsfaototT
assurances regarding the attitude of
the Carranza government toward ths
American entry into (Mexico wore eon*
veyed to this state department today
by Consul Silliman, who is with Ocn«
era! Carransa.
Over night dispatches reoetved by
Acting Secretary Polk of the state d**
partment and by Secretary Baker wear*
optimistUx The government offiofUa
believe danger of opposition by^jtlwf
Carransa faction is growing less.,
The Mexican situation was Colly dls*
cussed at -the cabinet meeting. Oablnet
members agreed that danger of serious
clashes with the Carransa troops prob«
ably had passed.
Secretary Daniels told of the order
ing of BOO marines to FensaColk, Fla*
on the transport Hancock, but later th«
authorised the statement
that the movement had nothing to da
with tho Mexican situation.
Immigration from Mexico has shovm
a great increase since the outbreak.
Censorship Still Strict.
The eyes of administration officials
centered today on the desert plains of
northern (Mexico, Where Brig.-Qen.
John J. Pershing is leading Asnerlcsn
troops In pursuit of SYanctoco Villa
and his band of outlaws.
Strict censorship still surrounds the
movement of the expedition. "A" IoWC
code messfcs* from General Funstoa
has been received at the 'War depart
ment, but Secretary Baksr would not
make it public. ___
mvmw
,l-
atwfBoiaJ adarte— srtd^that VTOa^dl.
'his men are far'waitWh"w
farces. Army officials do not MCftoOt A
clash for
Says, Siplaaiiiiiirai-
vices reported conditions to Mexi4o
generally quiet There were signs-of'
unrest in the Tsmplco district, how
ever.
President's Course Approved.
President Wilson today signed the
joint congressional resolution authoris
ing the increase of the standing* army
to its full strength of approximately
120.000 men.
Senator LaFoltette, republican, today
introduced a resolution and the senate
adopted it, approving President Wil
son's course In sending a punitive ex
pedition into Mexico and assuring tha
Mexican people that the expedition waa
purely punitive.
CARRANZA TROOPS IN FIELD.
Making Effort to Head Off Villa in F)e*
treat Southward.
Iougias, Ariz., March 17.—Carranza
troops of Gen. P. Bli&s Calles are mak*
Ing effort to co-operate with the Amer
ican troop* in pursuit of Villa, accord*
ing to reports received here.
Persons arriving here during the
night from tho Bavlspe valley, fn east
ern Sonora, stated that 400 Called
troops commanded by Lieutenant Col*
onel Aguirre were strongly entrenching
themselves near Bavlspe, In a positior
commanding two passes thru which th«
bandits would march should they make
a sortie against the towns of B&viape,
San Miguel. L.a Gal era and El Tigre.
Several hundred Mexican troops
commanded by Lleut. Col. Dato Camp
bell are reported to have passed thro
PulPlto
I$
•V*
-i
t*asa into Chihuahua and were
expected to give aocive suppvrt to ths
United States soldiers.
Colonel Campbell is a lieutenant of
General Calles and is a resident of
touglas. He has done much to ad
vance the sentiment in favor of aldtns
the American troops.
Entrenchments were dug todaj- In
front of the forces of Calles at Cabullo,
a short distance south of Ague..-hut of
ficials here of the defacto government
explained that this was -to k-eep the
men occupied and prevent dUyatisfacn
tion."
QIRL BEATS RECORD^
Postofflce Employe at Eagle Grove Ex*
eels in Handling Mail.
Eagle Grove, March 17.—The post
office force and railway mail cle&s
TOOK thoir cuuiutu Bimniiiauuu uiiuviT
Chief Clerk Williams, of the railway
mail service from Des Moines, and Miss
Helen Hoseland established a speed
record that, as far as is known at pres
ent Is a world record. Mr. Williams,
the examiner stated thit aa far as, h?
knew it had never been beaten. He
will communicate with the postoffica
dpartment to And out if possible
whether her record has ever been
equaled. All of the participant* made
good records they are as follow*:
Miss Helen Roseland cased 58 c4rda
in fourteen minutes, making her record
fifty-four, cards per mlnuto.- Per c^at
correct 100.
FATAL AUTO ACCIDENT.
One Killed and Another Fatally Hurt..
Near Elk Point* & D.
Sioux City, March 17.—Louts D, Al*
hers, of Vermillion S. D-, yearB idi
was killed, and Andrew AricWnson *5 ,"
