THE RONAN. PIONEER t
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
lflntered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
£ffice at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 47. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH 17. 1916. $2.00 Per Year
WILSON ACCEPTS
CARRANZA VIEW
Washington, March 14.-Secretary
of State Lansing notified the Carran
za government that the United States
has agreed to permit Carranza forces
to enter American territory in pursuit
of bandits who might cross the border
into Mexico, commit depredations
there and return to the United States.
In return for this privilege, the com
munication sets forth, the United
States understands that Carranza has
no objection to the American expedi
tion which has been organized for the
pursuit of Villa and that this g;'v
ernment is now prepared to exercise
this right without further exchange
of views.
Accompanying the formal note,
which was addressed to Carranza's
secretary for foreign affairs and for
warded by telegraph, through United
States Consul John R. Silliman at
Guadalajara, was a statement by Mr,
Lansing setting forth that the Ameri
can expedition will be scrupulously
confined to the pursuit and capture of
Villa.
With the receipt of his copies of the
correspondence General Fpnston is ex
pected to lose no time in getting his
expedition under way.
The statement issued by Secretary
Lansing follows:
"To remove any misapprehension
that may exist either in the United
States or in Mexico the president has
authorized me to give in his name
the public assurance that the mlii
tary operations now in contemplation
by this government will be scrupu
lously confined to the object already
announced and that in no circum
stances will they be suffered to in
fringe in any degree upon the sov
ereignty of Mexico or develop into in
tervention of any kind in the afternal
affair of our sister republic.
"On the contrary, what Is now be.
ing done is deliberately intended to
preclude the possibility of interven
tion."
The tension in Washington has not
been lessened by publication of the
'note to Carranza. While the belief
is professed in official circles that it
may serve to placate him all plans
of the war department have been
lrawn with the possibility in view
that the entry of the troops into Mex
ico will be the signal for Carranzistas
and Villistas in Northern Mexico to
unite in opposition to the invasion.
CALLING TRAINED AVIATORS
New York, March 14.-A squad of
trained aviators will be concentrated
immediately for possible service with
the United States troops in Mexico,
it was announced by the Aero Club
of America.
While these aviators are being
equipped a second squad of twenty
ficers will be in readiness. W. Leon
ard Bonney, formerly in command of
t;eneral- Carranza's aviation force, will
have charge.
The offer of the Aero club to fur
nish machines and aviators will be ac
cepted if occasion arises, Secretary
Baker has informed the club.
PERSHING LEAVES EL PASO
Columbus, N. M., Merch 14.-Briga
riicr General John J. Pershing left El
Paso for here. It is understood he is
to assume immediate command of the
troops already concentrated here for
the punitive expedition against Villa
into Mexico.
Commands now at Columbus muster
approximately 3,500 men.
Several other commands are expect- I
ed, the plan apparently being to make
the column to move out of Columbus 1
the main unit of the expeditionary I
lorcr, with field wireless and aero- 1
plane equipment.
EMBARGO ON WAR MUNITIONS
San Francisco, March 14.-An em
bargo on shipment of war munitions
front this port to Mexican points was
declared by John 0. Davis, collector
of the port, in accordance with in
structions from -Washington signed t
by W. P. Malburn, assistant secre- r
tary of the treasury, e
t
Militia Guards Armories.
Phoenix, Ariz., March 14.-Militia
men were placed on guard around the 'i
national guard armories here and at e
Tucson as a general precautionary
measure.
Former Postmaster Indicted.
T. R. White, former postmaster at
Whitetail, mutt stand trial in federal o
court at Great Falls on a charge of t
embezzlement. The Indictment against s
White charges the pilfering of $2,500
from a letter addressed to the Se
curity bank of Whitetail, and also that o
he is short $1,313 in postal funds. t,
Polish Wheat
The U. S. Department of Agriculture
recently has been informed that Polist
wheat is being offered for sale in Mon.
tana at the exhorbitant price of $1.00 per
pound. Polish wheat is a variety more
closely related to the durum wheats
than to the common wheats. The head
is 3 to 6 inches long and one-half to
three-quarters of an inch wide, usually
'flexible instead of stiff. The chaff is
very long, thin and papery. The kernels
are larger than those of durum wheat
and about twice as long as those of or
dinary varieties of common wheat. Like
all durum wheat, the kernels are flinty
and of an amber color.
A few years ago this wheat was ex
ploited in Idaho under the misleading
name of "corn wheat." It has also
been exploited at different times as
"Jerusalem rye," "Giant rye," etc.
This wheat is grown to a slight ex
tent in southeastern Europe, but never
has been grown commercially in the
United States. It is carried in stock
and sold as a novelty by most seedsmen.
It has been tested by many experiment
stations and has never been found to
yeild as well as good varieties of com
mon and durum wheat. From our pre
sent knowledge it is not recommended
for growing any where in the United
States.
Those offering the seed claim that it
does very well on dry land and also
under irrigation if not watered too
much. They state that Polish farmers
in Montana claim that this wheat yields
from 85 to 150 bushels per acre and
makes the very best of flour and hog
feed.
These statements are directly con
trary to the experience of the Depart
ment of Agriculture and several State
experiment stations. They are also
contrary to the experience of many
farmers who have written to the De
partment at one time or another.
The accumulated evidence regarding
this wheat does not indicate that it has
any value that will in any way justify
the charge of $1.00 a pound for the
seed, and farmers are advised not to be
mislead by the glowing statements re
garding yields and values which have
been made concerning this variety.
TICK FEVER WARNING
BY BOARD OF HEALTH
The doctors in all parts of the state
are requested by the Monthly Bulletin
to be on the look out for cases of spot
ted (tick) fever.
For many years this disease in Mon
tana has been confined to the Bitter
Root valley, with a few cases occuring
in the Clark's Fork vally. Last year
for the first time cases were reported
from Gallatin, Big Horn. Custer, Daw
son and Fallon counties, The cases oc
curring in these latter counties were
much less severe than those occurring
in the Bitter Root valley, but in spite
of this we had two deaths.
Cases of spotted fever occur during
the seasonal activity of the wood tick,
from about the middle of March until
the middle of July. If any of the phy
sicians throughout the state have cases
where they are in doubt as to diagnosis,
they should wire the State health de
partment. Services of an expert can
thus be secured.
This disease has been more or less
confused with measles, scarlet fever,
cerebro spinal mennigitis or spotted
fever, typhus, also called spotted fever,
occasionally with typhoid and paraty
phoid fevers under the common name
of "mountain fever." It is now known
however, that Rocky Mountain spotted
fever is a distinct disease of the Rocky
Mountain region, transmitted to man by
the bite of an infected wood tick.
This disease occurs only in persons
who have been exposed to tick bites,
generally during the spring and early
summer months. It has an incubation
period of from three to 11 days and may
be ushered in by a chill followed by
headache and deep seated pains in the
extremities, particularly in the lower
limbs.
An eruption is always present after
the first days of the disease. There
may be a general mascular roset'lar
eruption in the begining, but the charac
teristic eruption of Rocky Mountain
spotted fever is petechial and appears
first on the ankles, wrists and forhead.
The petechia may be limited to a few
ndistinct spots or may spread over the
entire body and in severe cases become
purpuric, frequently leaving a mottled
pigmentation lasting for months or
rears.
The temperature is continuous and
asts from one to two weeks.
It is highly important that the extent
if the infection within the state be de
termined, in order to guard against its
p read and it is therefore requested
;hat you investigate and report all sus
picious cases in your district.
When it is desired and early reports
)f cases have been received, an effort
;o confirm the diagnosis will be made.
Cumnro rsdn
4 , , I:
Helena, Montana, March 15: Since the announcement that friends of Hon.
Albert B. Cummins would ask the support of Montana republicans at the coming
primaries, the movement to make the distinguished Iowa senator a nominee for
president has gained considerable headway. Reports from all parts of the
state indicate that the "Cummins for President"campaign has been very favor
ably received. Nominating petitions have been sent to every precinct in Montana.
When the "Cummins for President" headquarters were opened Mr. Harvey,
the chairman, made the statement it was his belief that Cummins was the one
candidate upon whom all republicans could unite and go forth to victory in the
coming campaign. This statement seems to have met the approval of a large
number of the rank and file of both wings of the party. Hundreds have already
sent word they are behind Cummins for just that reason.
Letters are coming in showing that more people are interested in the selection
of a republican presidential candidate than appears on the surface. They are
not making much noise about it, butithe interest is growing just the same and
will continue to grow until the primary election on April 21.
As evidence of the increasing interest the names of twenty-seven well known
republicans have been mentioned as possible candidates for delegates to the
national convention in Chicago, June 7. Up to the present time, however, Mr
Harvey is the only one to file as a candidate for delegate.
A number of prominent republicans were discusing the matter in Helena the
other day and some were of the opinion that candidates for delegates evidently
were not aware of the fact that the first step to be taken was to file a declara
tion with the Secretary of State. This must be done at, or before the circula
tion of petitions.
AGED INDIAN IS CHARGED
WITH BUTCHERING A CON
Antoine Hammer, a full blood Indiar
about 70 years of age, living southeasi
of Ronan, according to a complaint filec
in U. S. Commissioner Bailey's office
signed by Ban Mendenhall, is charges
with killing a cow belonging to the
latter. The offense is said to have
been committed on or about March 10,
while the cow was feeding at a straw
pile in Mr. Mendenhall's field, The
cow was a full blood Durham, gentle
and had a young calf by her side. The
head and off-fall was found by Mr.
Mendenhall and he at once notified W.
G. Brown, sub agent at Ronan, and
the latter after a short search located
the carcas in the possession of Antoine
Hammer.
Mr. Mendenhall then swore to a com
plaint charging Hammer with killing
the cow. In accordance with the rules
of the government Mr. Bailey has for
warded the complaint to the district
attorney for his approval, and if ap
proved by that officer a warrant will
issue for Hammer and he will have to
stand trial in the federal court.
Cattlemen on the reservation, it is
said, have been heavy losers of stock
in this way and they have determined
to put a stop to it one way or another.
If the accused happened to be a white
man there would be little doubt as to
the outcome, but offenses committed
by the Indians are a different matter
the federal authorities preventing their
being tried in the state courts on the
grounds that they are wards of the
government. However, there should
be some way by which the cattlemen
can secure protection for their stock,
be the offender Indian or white man,
and the approval of the complaint in
this case and its prosecution by the
district attorney, should lead the way
to the protection desired.
Judgment Is Affirmed.
The state supreme court has affirm
rd the lower court's judgment in the
:ase of Martin R. Slifer against Cap
tain of Police William Yorath of Butte.
Ihe plaintiff alleged he was falsely
arrested and falsely retained In prison.
The judgment is for $100.
CHEESE-MAKING IN THE
ROCKY MOUNTAIN STATES
Washington D. C. March 15 -The
possibilities of cheese making in dif
ferent sections of the Western States,
particularly on the irrigated projects,
received considerable attention from
specialists of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture during the summer of 1915.
A representative of the Dairy Division
spent a number of months among fac
tories in Idaho and Montana studying
the troubles experienced in making
cheese of a satisfactory quality, and in
seeking means to overcome these dif
ficulties.
In Idaho, very successful factories
are in operation near Boise and Buhl.
At Boise a large cooperative company
owns two cheese factories and one
creamery. The cheese factories have
proved so popular with the farmers that
the company intends to build other fac
tories of the same kind. The factory at
Buhi at one time last summer paid for
butter fat 11 cents a pound more than
was paid in any other market in the
locality, and at no time was this differ
ence less than 6 cents.
Owing to an inadequate milk supply
and poor management, there have been
failures of cheese factories in both
Idaho and Montana, The climate and
all other natural conditions, however,
are good for a cheese industry through
out Montana and in the higher parts of
Idaho. On the intensively farmed ir
rigation projects the dairy cow furnishes
a good medium through which to mar
ket bulky crops of alfalfa and corn.
The priaes which a cheese factory is
able to pay for butter fat, in competition
with other markets, can readily be es
timated if the price of cheese is known.
Milk makes 2.7 pounds of cheese for
each pound of butter fat. The cost of
manufacture is about 2 cents a pound
in factories of ordinary size. Cheese
at 13 cents a pound would allow the
payment of 29.7 cents a pound of butter
fat; at 12 cents for cheese, 32.4 cents
for fat; at 15 cents for cheese, 35.1 for
fat; and at 16 for cheese, 37.8 would be
paid for butter fat. During the past
summer great quantities of cheese were
sold in the Rocky Mountain states at a
price higher than 16 cents a pound, while
probably none brought less than 13 cents.
In certain localites, some farmers
not familiar with cheese factories are
inclined at first to oppose the industry
because it uses skimmed milk formerly
available for calves and hogs. This op
position is not well founded, as nearly
every farmer in the great eheese fac
tory district of Sheboygan County,
Wis., is able to raise exellent dairy
cows. The irrigated regions of the
West, moreover produce great quanti
ties of alfalfa, which furnishes a cheap
substitute for the protein of skimmed
milk for pigs. Experiments by the
New Mexico experiment station have
demonstrated that where alfalfa pas
ture is available and corn is worth 80
cents a bushel, a hundredweight of
skimmed milk is worth only 14 cents,
as compared to nearly 30 cents where
there is no alfalfa. It is probable that,
with pigs on alfalfa pasture, they
would give almost as great gains as
would skimmed milk.
In the flush of the season a cheese
factory can be operated economically
on 3,500 pounds of milk, or the product
of about 200 cows. This milk should
be produced within 4 miles of the fac
tory, as a longer haul is not economical
and increases the danger of bad milk
and poor cheese. A cheese factory to
handle 5,000 pounds of milk can be
built for about $1,500, including equip
ment.
As so little of the country is natuially
suited to the manufacture of cheese,
and as the possibilities of increasing its
consumption are so great, the Depart
ment beleives that, as a rule, consider
ation should be given to establishing
factories wherever conditions are favor
able to the development of this industry.
I RAILROAD MEEllNG
,e
WED., MARCH 22
re
The adjourned meeting of the electric
,n railway boosters, which was to have
ie been held in Missoula on March 10,
r 1916, is hereby called to meet in that
city on Wednesday evening, March 22,
e and all interested are urged to attend.
y The condition of the highways at this
. time indicates that each and every one
L who so wishes can get to the railroad
on that date, and a monster attendance
is desired,
It is believed now that concerted
action of those most interested will re
sult in the building of a railroad thru
the valley the coming summer. You
are urged to help.
COKER F. RATHBONE,
Chairman.
DEMOCRATIC CLUD MEETING
AND ENTERTAINMENT
Scearce's Hall, Ronan Montana,
March 24th, 1916, at 8 P. M.
Program.
1. Orchestra selection, by the Flatton
Orchestra.
2. Address of Welcome, by the Presi
dent, Mr. John N. Bailey.
3. Piano solo, selected, by Miss Anna
Rafferty.
4. Response, "Why I am a Democrat,"
by Mrs. Iver M. Brandjord.
5. Vocal solo, selected, by Mr. J. J.
Maloney.
6. "Patriotism," by Mr Stanley Scearce
7. Piano solo, selected, by Mrs. Doro
thea V. Stillman.
8. "Political Parties and Party Prob
lems," by Representative Mason.
9. Vocal solo, selected, by Geraldine
Harvey.
10. " Democracy," by Mr. Iver M.
Brand jord.
11. Music a parody.
12. "The Coming Campaign." by Mr.
A. Sutherland.
13. Apropos to the occasion, by Mayor
Joseph A. Lemire.
14. Election of officers for the club.
15. Orchestra selection, "The Star
Spangled Banner," Flatton Orchestra'
16. Refreshments and social and general
good time.
All democrats are urged to attend,
both ladies and gentlemen.
By Committee.
New Refinery In Operation.
After the labor of months and the
expenditure of about $1,000,000 the
first half of the new electrolytic re
finery of the Anaconda Copper Mining I
company in Great Falls was put into I
commission, the current being turned
into the plant and the half being in
full operation. It is expected by the
smelter men to have the other half
of the refinery in operation by the
latter part of the present month or
early in Auril.
VERDUN BATTLE t
IS LESS SEVERE
Paris, March 14.-"North of Verdun
the bombardment has increased in
intensity west of the Meuse on IA
Morte Homme and in the region of the
Bois Bourrus," says the French war
office statement.
"Our batteries took under their fire
enemy forces assembling between
Forger and the Bols Des Corbeaux.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
and tri: the. Woevre there was less ac
tivity on the part of the two artil
leries. No infantry action occurred.
"In Upper Alsace, east pf Seppois,
the (lermans attacked trenches which
we had retaken from them in the last
fow days in the region of Entrelar
"'They were stopped by our barrier
and infantry. Sections of the enemy
reorirrerd to their trenches, having sut
I'cri'', sensible losses.
"Otur at iators displayed remarkablo
a livity in the whole Verdun region. A
rrtuartron composed of six aeroplanes
dropped 13o shells on the strategically
imIrortant station at lirieulles, north
of Verdrin. A large number of en
r, ýments wliere loiurht, in which we
ti:d an inn onat table advantaige.
"In the course of these combats,
three I erman aeroplanes were brought
down, one o1 them in our lines and'
the other two inside the first German
lines, Other reroplanes were observ
ed in the act of falling, but their de
struction has not been established."
IRISH WISH TO MAKE ARMS
London, 1M1arch 14.-A deputation of
Irish merchants, headed by John Red
mond, leader of the Irish Nationalists
in parliament, waited on David Lloyd
George. the munitions minister, and
urged that greater facilities be afford
ed Ireland for munition making, such
as the equipment of shell and fuse fac
tories, in which the trades unions were
eager to give aid.
Mr. Lloyd-George replied that while
he wished to utilize the reserves of
Ireland to their utmost it could not be
denied that Ireland was not an indus
trial country. He said there was no
reason why Ireland should not prosper
industrially and that he would be
watchful if opportunities offered for
manufacturing 0if munitions.
e WILL LIBERATE MORE MEN
London, March 14-With a view to
d liberating more men for active service
in the army the government has ir
vised the list of starred occupations,
u employment in which hitherto has ex
u empted workmen. It is expected offi
cial details will be issued immedi
alely.
The revision is in accordance with
the recent recommendation of the
Earl of Derby.
In cases where it is found impossi
ble to remove occupations altogether
from the starred list men under thirty
years will be replaced by women or
older men.
STUDYING POLISH RELIEF
London, March 14.-The question or
relief work in Poland is being consid
ered anxiously by the British cabinet,
but it has not yet arrived at any de
cision, according to a statement is
sued by the foreign office.
The entire question of relief for the
suffering civilians is greatly compli
cated by the problem arising from the
fact that the territory is occupied by
Teuton armies and the added fact
that Russia occupies the same relation
to Poland as England does to Belgium,
cad that nothing can be done in Po
laind without consultation with Petro
grad.
SEVEN BELGIANS EXECUTED
Amsterdam, March 14.-A dispat:.
to the Handelsblad from Brussels
says that seven of nine.Belgians sen
tenced to death for treason have been
executed. Three others were con
victed and sentenced to life improson
ment, while thirty others were given
various terms of penal servitude.
Six men on trial were acquitted.
Woman Slayer Immune.
Atlanta, Ga., MarcL 14.-The coun
ty grand jury here refused to indict
Mrs. Edward Pannell, who shot and
killed her husband when, she said, he
was attempting to beat her with a
razor strop. She was ordered releas
ed from jail.
Villa can get a job at vaudeville, but
if he must stick to his first love let
him fight sham battles for the film
makers.
Would be peacemakers in Europe
will do well to try their medicine first
on the ructions of an Irish wake or
fair.
