County Clerk's C
Dming Water
MM Pare
Governm't Teat
THE BEMIMG GRAPHIC
Deniinf Air
100 perct. Pure
Breathing Tent
A LIVE PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
VOLUME XIV, NUKBEB XXIX.
DEMING, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FKIOAT, MARCH 17, 1910.
FIVE CENTS THE COPT
u
PTC
id
U U 1
t
u Ky
I
fi
10 ceossed cram
Era AT COOS 12:10 MESDAY
Column Approximately 4,000 Strong Co nposed of Cavalry, Infantry, l'u Id
Artillery and Machine Gun Platoons Start After "PanchV Villa
With Orders to Capture llim Dead or Alive
ENTRY OF THE TROOPS WAS A MOST INSPIRING SPECTACLE
Col. 'Slocum and Fighting Thirteenth Cavalry Head Column; Hard Task
Ahead of Punitive Expedition; Main Question is, "Will Car
tanza Keep Faith or Must We Fight Him Too?"
"Brine up I ho colors," nnid (.'nl.
Mocuin or the Thirteenth I'. K. Cnv
nlry t oue of bis officer iih ihev
upproached the iuternntionul pule
way at the head of tlm punitive ex
Itfdition frnin ('oIiiiiiIiuh into Mexico,
Hint added: "The American flag iiiuhI
go first." It wan 12:10 o'eolck in
the afternoon when the colors pus
hed over the honler. Nearly fur
tltoiiHaiid men were in line. This
foiee ha Mince he increased hy new
ly arrived reirimentH, the intention
being, apparently, to rnsie the ex
peditionary force up to ten thniis
titid or more. About three thousund
troop under Col. Dodge Icl'l Cul
berson's runch neur ILichita mid !
crossed the iMirdcr Thursday morn- ;
ing. This column haw alio been re j
ers There lire many Villa hands
operating all through the comilry
l In- i rn verged. The first fighting
uill probably be with these, lull Ut
ile new is exepttc.l to rcai-h the
border. There tire forresponiluiils
it li I lie troops bill I !) nn held lo
ii lrir censorship llml will cliiuiu
.il. nn.v thing of ii definite ehurnct
t'l. The correspondents were not
allowed lo send mil the news of the
first advance, mid il wiih nut unlil
couriers m-rivcil in Dcming thnt the
news wni, I In ed over' the wires lo
(lie cXH-cliilit public.
Doming citizens have been nnikm
friiiieu trips to Columbus much ihii
massacre mid buve been interested
H'clnlur ul the mobilization. .V
iimuUer motored duwu lo see the
mforced. , adranra. The Thirteenlh cuvulry
Imuiedially after the find troop j,as I,,.,.,, j Hiis wium no lniK thai
ol Ihc thirteenth has passed through j lm. i-ilixctiH Inivc cnine to feel n
the Kal nil advmieed guard with j -rem interest in the oryanuntion.
flankers were thrown out. The, Satisfaction w expressed here Hint
flankers could be Neeu luiitf after; iUli ,ulv ,ud be first lo cross
the main force was hiddeu in thei. ,e.' All ulanu in Luna county
dn.t of the "old grade" road, ah,,,,, K.e nibiycd. Considering that
thoroughfare buill on ihc remains of ij , ,lllm ' ,.mily ,.Uiy,vs lllt
an embankment of a railroad Unit: were the victims of the Villa raid,
never materialized. ll. ,.,,. mVt shown great mmlcr-
The first camping place was tension ni K, judgement. No fur-
niles below the Mexican villain) "fiber trouble is cx Id to disturn1
Pnlomas. M.,.j ' , M,rilerHid.
den. Pershing is cognizant of all
the conditions thnt obliiin or that
limy develop under certain eventu
alities. The country can rust as
sured thnt he bus taken every pre
caution to protect the comparative
ly small force under his command
I linn meeting wilh a disiislcr that
is possible under the circumstance.
News of future oH'rnlioiiM must
reach the border by radio, two out
fits of which lire wilh the eXieditiou
ary force, and by infrequent cour
ier... The lines of communication
will lie guarded amply anil many
wagon, pack, and motor truck
trains will pass between the troop
supply depots and the border. The
present force represents the high
est type of soldiery the world has
ever produ I. It is well urmco,
disciplined, anil fed, and will enjoy
all tlm comforts Hisihe to field
service. I'hysculy the men are in
tcrl'cct i-oudiiioii and hard a nails
from their long service an the bur
lier. They are equal to the task
which they have liecn set.
The American ling In in Mexico,
Few along the bonier believe I hut It
will ever bii reculled from a lance
part of Mexico. I'reciuii, Auicriuan
Itc mid treasure lias mid will be
sacrificed. It js unlikely thai ill"
Aiiieiienn Niopn will not exact a
ciuupensiiliou, The presenl case is
nut a pnnrJIel tu cither I'uba or
I he I'liilippines, the territory in this
il:-tail hi-inif coiiijiiKlint IWld Tood
bind for the colonization of while
people. The natural resource make
northern Mexico the treasure hnli.o
ol the .New World, nut lliu most
.siiiisfaeiory reason for aciuiriiiK the
teriiliirv is found in the theory thai
nullum; ciin slop n doiuiuiile and
pxpiindiuif nice from overrunuiiiu the
neighboring liiml.i of wcuk races,
Title by coiupiest is uiiaenlionble.
So sure us gas Incomes unijovaru
nlde under pressure, so sure wjll the
dynamic energy ot the Ani;hi-Hiix-on
la- poun'd into northern Mexico,
MS ARE
q;g trial here
Wounded Cexlcan Raiders Here
iar I rial in uisinci LOUn; LHO ciiiiiuiht or commerce,
f Twte years Cries of "Padre,";
While Awaiting Amputation of leg. ; 'ushiuuiou The resolution pus
; scd by uress Hiilbori.inir the pies
to it, full slivtiirth of 1JII.IMMI Mien
tf the ellfht Mexien prisoners' wiis referred to the war depnrtmeiit
broii(rht fro:n ('oluiabiu hy Sheriff yeslcrdiiv with n reipiest Hint it be
Sinipsnn W.duesdny, two Imve I u returned to the president nt once if
rtdeaaed, tw.t are dyiiiK, and two are siilisl'uclurv. Tlie president i, ex
lo be operated on this afternoon peeled in siL'n it lnnitlit.
and the rest are prcpariuu to defend l.'rders Imve been received by the
Ihemselves in the courts. All llml 'uiistiiulioiialisl forces in .liiurcz,
survive until Tuesday lire to be ar- d;nu to a slnlemenl made by
raiyued la-fore Jndtre V, ('. IJutfcrs, lien, (luhricl (lavira Thursday iiiurn
Alfredo Areirou has already been inu, that, while a reciprocal nrninuc
held to the fi'deral urimd jury on incut existed whereby the Amcneiiti
a i'hnre nf haviuif Kiivcriniieiil prop- troops were uiven ricbt of way into
erly 'li his possession. He was ar- Mevit a the puniliee expi'dil;on, no
rested on suspicion of beinu a spy. ciilriitimi of tronpn of n ieiinii-
Victoriano Loya and Touuis (lurdea, in any of the villuucs mid towns of
thoairht to have purticipaled in Ihn Mvico.
Uni. (invirii also slate that he bad
-enl n notice to the commanders of
i he snrrison. at Madera, fastis
nudes, and I'eiirson notifyinc them
of the arraiiL'cnicnt between the two
- ' ermnenls and iiistnicijnif them to
notify the eoplc of tlnir res.ei-t
ie oii'iniinlties so that the pnsay-
l' the Aiiicricnn troops would not In-
iscndcr-tood.
Organized Shipping Association ,
J. ('. luuram, HiikIi Hamscy, I,. ('.
I'axton, J. ,f. Kmery, and Frank j
Itarrclt and others last eyenintr onu
yiuiixed the Deminir Ships rs Asso
eiiition. They will not incornnrate
this sea sun. Another 'meet inn in!
impleie the umanization will lM held Oemina Pioneers Gathered at Marvev
Hotel to Feast and Talk Over old
010 TIMERS AOAL
BANQUET A SUCCESS
i
Times; Twenty-Seven Hale and
Hearty Members of Club Present.
The troops were ready and eii'ci :
to move Tuesday afternoon, but the
order to ad mi nee was delayed by
the lion-arrival of accessary units
mid equipment. I 'reparations were
made to move at dnyliuhl the next
nmniiiiK, hill farther delay had ! '
How Auiericmi nmps will aiatiau
Shortly after niiduiuhl Col. Hloeiim
and lien. 'ersbiii)r held a eonl'erclice
with I'ol. I In viln of ihn Mex'nan Har
rison at I'lilniiuis. The Mexican of-
." capiun- y ull in lus lav- ,i,.,.P ,. ,, ,),.n, , ,
rile liauiils and bum lontr the Car- ,). A ric.n for When
r""M lr " wl" l'"se as allies i- .. A,,,,.,-;,.,.,, ,rillw r..ueli.,d I'ul...
! mas Ihcv found the villmtu deserted
be endured and il wus not until the
middle of the forenoon thnt I he
final word was (liven. The troops
1'iid chafed under the delays and
Mnted their satisfaction at at last
irettinK in motion wilh lusty cheers.
From Ihechnracler of the equipment
plan for hm I'oiiniiiK a leal which
has been imposed on the army, Il
will lake mouths, they assert , lo
lo lake Villa cither dead or alive.
Many arc frank to say they do mil
believe il eau Ac a mplised. Tlml
I he Ciirriiuza forces arc sincere in
lii i nt to be subjects of interest.
- '"' bv s.d.liei-s as weel an civilians.
niluiil thai I hey cannot visiialir.e a! tuJ l..n l.ii.. ,i... i;.
aeroplane seen was in flight to the!
south, men eame back wilh the rcHirt i
I li it t the cxH-ilit ititi was in camp on
I he shores of lie l'i:omus lake nli
that all was ipiiet.
W'l..... I I... u-,.,.1 .. , l..ll
. " "'".- ... ISM lk).
it mav be iud-d ll.al (he troops are .., : 'l-P""..., conruMou gina way,
exacted to move with Kreat rapid- joiislv iloiibted in Ibis siM-tioii II w 'in- k orua.nza.ion as tbe , iff,.,-.
ilv and in b.imi)end hv imnecessarv ' IHh wm ii Mow- ,, ,,( ,,,,,, , t,:
Ld uenll '""""'' ever s ere ,1 e facto p.vern- .he old Bra,e nrnd, .l the I
linpenimenia. . n.enl may be, ,1 is asserted, the head of the column Ihe mm and while
,..r ,. .....,.. -n-,re8uiar iroops win nut nof ciuinre KUj,nH f l)w Thirleenlh
Koonflpnu iniuj. i.ie.i iuiiiki ii , me violation ul .Mexican lernlory.
iiiicoiufortulily cold in their blankets The dislike Is aiiilual, racial and of
ami shelter tents, their conical tents' ,m, ,,idiiiK. The eharacler of the
hnvimr been alrack Jihen the Grst f Mrife is cH-ctcd lo develop diffi
oider was (riven. The men (tallierert j ,Mdii,.,. Medieval hisiory w ill reveal
around fire mad.' from the dry; lm ,nl0 ,r,rM practices. There
yuecM hark, weeds ami I lie nay
that had been used to stuff mallres
ss. No doubt, anlicipalion of the
hiK advenliire iu a tdranite laud kepi lui ,. .nierican abilitr lo "iro il i ti... .'. .i .. ;. : Thanks, Old Scout
TIIK OAI.M I' IIKItAI.lt
howu at ColumbiiK. The hale ... I... n...i. I llallup, N.
March 14.
the lads in a alate of ncrvomi ex
citement that precluded the posai
bilily of sound slumber. Never were
soldiers more eaircrtn meet with the
enemy. Venirance for the taking of
the lives of twenty-four Americans
by the Villa bandits nt Columbus is
the thought upMrmos in the minds
of I he fii;htiii(r men. To accomplish
Ihc purjsise the troops are willing tu
tnave the laug dusty trails over the
wr.lerless desert and ihare sand
hills so characteristic of northern
Mexico, St run ir pnlruls were out
all niiiht, but there were no alarms.
Villa was last heard of in the
flnleann district making for the
fool hills of the (Treat Sierra Ma
dre. Aeroplanes are covering the
country and bringing- in information however, would not be adequate fur
to supplement that furnished hy the nnvthitur more than ilenl nir wilh l!ie
Villa following. Should complied-
cavalry
suupMd iu the breeze. Ilehjutl the
cavalry were the long lines of iu
I'nntry, the Sixth mid Hixtconlh. The
field artillery were next lo swjuir into
the line. The machine (tun platoons.
slllilllv wamilis. bnsoiliil eoms ami
win oe lew ir'siuiers iiiKen liv cllucr ..il, ,.i.i..i- 1 a. 1
side, is the prediction founded 011 broniiht np III renr wjth their files of "'" " "'
11 hoo,cKe 01 ..icmci.u cinirncier ,i,inirv and cBvalrv flankers, i
mid Ihc American ability lo "Ka tl 1 T. , f ,(, Vlipi(lw nllju w,pp;
one better." This was pretty clear- phisjcaliy fit and showed their eager-!
ly shown at Columbus. The hale ,., ,v t,r erm(l,
has a historical lieg-iiniiig in the rr- niovemenU and bantering, I
leer war wilh Mexico. Th wWtA of severn 0f,i,.cls wr
N'cws from Wiishingtun indicates there lo bid good hy to their hus-
tluil loiiress and the pivsideiil n r- mtuls. The w linen were brave until
! ginning lo realize the seriousness the desert dust had nhsnurei) the
of I he uiidertnk'iig mid the innde- long drab column, when they could
qiiaey of the forces nt their dispos- no longer restrain their tears,
ul. From indications it is believed When the American troops had
thai Washington intends to liulil the crossed the border i was learned
war out w lh the stmidiug army. Ily "lat ,he Mexican (Vranxa troopsl
hint gone south to Oiizman, to join
other Mexican troops detailed to eo-.
oiHTiile -n the capture of Villa. Yea-
twenty five thousand troops could be .rudy the American troops were
s; arcd for the pacification of Mcx- suid to have gone over the mad in
ieo under Ibis plan. This number, ' p tracks of the fleeing raiders,
raid are uiiwoumlcd and will be
tred for murder. At present I'ablo
Sanchez in being held 011 a chagre of
vagrancy, hut another cliur-jc may be
.made against him. I'elar Valiaua
. and Maximo l.ucero wen released
,011 advice o the military iiulhorit;c
nit Columbus,
In the hall of the basement of I lie
I inly court house little r.'-year-old
IJcsiis l'iiis on a col awaiting mi
. iqierntlon to amputate his leg at the
hip. Il's W'ihihI is hadlv iul'ecleit
'and he probahty will mil siirviev the,
'shock. He is above (be nveraire in
Intelligence and edncalion, reinlim;
and writing in Spuicsli, lie .ays Iu
Weill to school in his native city.
Chihuahua. Kind hands have inniis
teied tu him and I lower.- are on the
chair la-side the cot. He is always
wilting to talk iu his childish way
about the events tlml led up to the
tryedy, but whenever his father is,
ineiil lulled I Iih (ears start from hi
eyes in spile of the stoi i-m of bj.
race, Just la-fore the fight bis lath
er let 1 llim Willi (lie horses pi-t oiil-iii-
of Columbus with Ihc injunction
to keep clear of Ihc I i u 1 1 1 1 1 1 u . Ili
father did not return mid I he lad
feels sure I hat bo is dead. The two
had planned to escape fioiii Villa
into Ihc I'llili'd Sillies where tin-
on was lo go lo school. illn, lie
says tiiok all his fclher's moncv and
forced him to iieeompauy lit- iiljil
I ers,
liioiiii l Attorncv J. II. Waddill will
,gcl a stiiteiiieut I ruin I he child and
ui'h Use o him as a witness
as iiiiiv Imi possible, should be survive
the oH-ratioli.
V. Savjlle and Klias M:r-s arc boih
'wounded In the hend and I heir dentil
is only the mailer of hours. When
aked how- they feel the answer wilh
jibe Spanish word fur dying mnerte.
Mires was a captain in the V-lla com
iiiiiiiI. Lino Ituiz and .I111111 Siincbez are
but "hglillv wounded and t is cer
Iniii thai they will stand Irnl for
district court here.
1. 0. STARR CONVICTED OF FIRST
DFCREE MURDER AT IAS CRUCES
C. Schmidt Draws Sscond .Degree
Conviction, and Francisco Acosta
is Acquitted of Killing, but Must
Stand Trial Here on Other Charge.
.1, o. Starr wa convicted of mur
der in I be lirst degree; C. Schnvilt
of inurdi r iu the second degree, and
Fraiici-.cn Acosta whs acquitted of
ii clmr-ic of murder growing out of
the killiiiL' of Sheriff D. H. Stephens
11 a mm tin I lie a mouth ago at Itiu
cuii following 11 jail delivery here.
While Acosia was not convicted a'
Liis Criiees he has yet lo stand trial
fur the alleged Killing of another
Mexican near Spalding hist winter.
W. Hiishley is Ihc only one of the
jail breakers at large.
the hnrile which was
posses bended by I.
The Old Timers' Association held
ils annual bniiqiiet and iciin'oii Wed
nisdiiy evening at the Harvey hotel.
re.ily-scven iiicinbers were pres
ent, .lohn Heckerl was elcelcd prcs
idcui: N. A. Holich and K. II. Mnl
ilus, ii-e presideiits. The secre
lai.v of tin- iissociatioii, Hdw. I'en
I'Uijion. holds his office Mrmancui
'.v. .1. A. Mn honey, tlm retiring pres
iilcui, was presented wilh nil auto
: i':icli 11 Mm m coiiiuiniiiir the names,
agis and dates ul arrival in Deming
of all the iiifiulicrs. Mr. Malioney
prcsided and Mr. I'cnningtou was Ihc
toiisimaster. Those present were:
I. A. Mahiiney, Kdw. IVui.ington. It.
V. M. Keves. X. A. Ilolieh. .1. II. Tru
i. I.. Shakespi me. Frank De
l.atuicy, sr., Frank ItcLauncy, jr.,
Thomas Mar-hall. (Mto l.cupold.
.lohn lleekert. W. . Merrill, A. .
Ii'aiilu-I, I'nil I'ini.inut.iii, lieorg'-l.-liler.
Hugh 11. Williams, .1. W.
Wi'iiis. Ili.n Larson,.!. W. I l.iiuii-1111.
.1. II. Todhunter. C. 11. Tossell, Harry
vVli t.-liHI. .1. K. Carroll, (i. M. Petty,
Siiiinund Lin, Inner, I'.. II. Matthew.s,
nil .lohn 11. II.mI-.imii. t
in- of the frequent pauses that
lm- . lianielerized I ho (l. rn iin nil
.11. re 011 Verdun i iiL-uin in r.ideiicc.
After Inning iiuule the;r liiiins Tiu-s-
ln west of the M.-tisc in the direct-
1 1 1 Man'- Mill, tin- fore-
; -I 'T the .TU'Wl prilce have not
I auaiii adviuiecil to the attack.
! li is ofti.-i.illv aiinniinced in ller
' l:n that the chaiiL-e in the bead of
'In ininisln 0 1 marine, involving the
retirement of Admiral von Tirpilz,
who i- succeeded by Admiral von
Cap-'lle, s'L-nities no change in the
gmi rum. -til's Mibinnrine policy.
MUNICIPAL EIFCTTN AND 30ND
SSUE TO BE VOTFn ON
M.
mm.
Iteming Graphic,
IK-ming, X, M,
fleiillemen: Congratulations 0n your
excellent reHirt on the raid by Villa
at Colnmhiik. It was the best thn
eame to my desk, barring none.
Respect f nil v,
TIIK I i KHALI)
Thanks, glad you liked it.
I Mail s of
I'oiiL'hl by a
II. Stephens, former sheriff of Luna
eoiuily, with escaped prisoners from
I iie lleniing jail, iu which the noted
M-ucc officer was killed, were told
in part iu I he trial of the thn-e
prisoners that wen run down and
eapluii.-d.
The trial was held iu the iliM
rid couii of D.nia Ana county 111
Las I'lii.-es, Judge F.dward Medler
presiding. Slitrr, who was caught
nfler bi-'tig shot iu the knee, was the
last to testify, was broughl into
the court room on a cot and appeared
lo Ik- iu a weak condition, but gave
his testimony in a strong voice. He
said he fired several times, claiming
it was done in self defense after tin
officers had oH-ned lire on him and
his companions. l(. said he saw two
men fall, but did not know whether
or not they hnd "ducked" or were
hit by bullets. They were not seen
by him again. Of the jail delivery,
Slnrr said after the men. escaped
from the jail they hid the keyes -n
a gopher hole and fled in the automobile.
One Ticket Has Already Been An
nounced and it is Believed That
Another Will he in the Running
Soon: Sewer Extension Bonds up.
IVniiiig is to be treated lo a warm
ly foiilesi-,l niiini. ipal election Apr!
4. Mnc ticket lia aln-adv h.-eii an
nounced iiii.I ii is understood that
another w-ll he in the field before
'ni'iiv d.'ivs. Tin' following are mi
nium 1 as candidates lor trustees
by 1 he eon-, rvaliv.' clement thai 1ms
lonlr-.lled ihc cilv government for
many years: Sigmiiiid l.indauer,
'rank I tel. nini y. It. F. II. million, Dr.
M. ,1. M.-ran. and Morris Vordhnus.
'! is said llml the opposition will 110
before the voters on a "clean city"
--nc. '
A f.M.mio bond i.sne for the ex
ensjon of the present sewer system
vi he voted on at the same time,
'pposilion to th:s proposal will
not be developed, it is indicated.
reeuiliiig up t lit- army lo full strength
it can almost Is- doubled. At least
Baseball Game Sunday
There will be a baseball game Sun
day between the Twentieth infnntry
nil'-- and a town team that is being
made up. The soldiers hnve a splen-
; did team and the local boys fear that
Caberia Is Coming ih -y may not be able to put up as
Caberfa. which is one of the most " hnwinar as they would l'ke.
ake of thes port they are
.nig stter the hoys nt the Tewenti
ith. The game will be called at
I 'clock in the afternoon.
many scouts attached to the col
umns. The reports indicate that the
Carrnniut troops will cooperate with
the American troops. The Pnlomas
garrison left the day before and are
to make a junction with the iuvad-
tions with the de facto forces de
xclop, the Washington government
would encounter the problem of arm
ing a large number of volunteers.
Ib-rt Brown was arrested Wednes
day 011 a complaint charging hop.
lifting in the Vordhnus store. He
pleaded not guilty and will go to
I Ma I tomorrow,
i -
We don't want war out here. We
want rain.
Amos Keith and I). E. PeRorry
were arrested last evening and w-iil
l-e arraigned today charged with wonderful and one of the longest film ""r
dramas in the wold, has been secured
by I he chnmber of commerce for
lleniing,
hi ving entered the Todhunter ranch
home.
The date will be announced
A snliicr dehheratly fired on en- later. n
necr Tony Witholder, of the T. and The chamber of commerce will The report of the Barnes-Rooseveli
P. passenger train at 0:.10 o'clock e n booster entertainment in April, i-econcilinlion keeps sounding more
Thursday momlnir as it was passing Tbi will In- Ihe fiist of a series of end more like a mere rumor.
Alfalfa switch, five miles below Kl -.m-h nicetiiigs to be held each month.
Paso. The bullet passed throueb : , VAhea a presidentfal candidate
t'-e window of the cub. shnttenn? At the age of 21 a man has more rrrets an Ohio l.w iw'. -n,i
the glass over the engineer's head, ideals than ideaa.
left but to burn bin plank behind kim.
