COUNTY
Count.
Auditor.
VOL XXXII,
NO
49
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY MARCH 17 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
PIT
TON
v:
HATIOnAL BABY WEEK IN WAUSEON
Program Under Supervision of Committees Successful
ly Carried Out Clubs and Business Men Co
. operate Expert Advice and Counsel
What The Result?
tre. this Thursday evening was "The
Theft of Thistledown"- and presented
the fairies opinion of the way mor
tals misused their babies; it made a
very fitting and approprate prelude to
the address of the evening which was
given by Doctor H. J. Morgan a child
specialist of Toledo who spoke on
the campaign for better babies and
gave some very practical advice on
how. to save the babies. Doctor Mor
gan's talk was directed mainly to
mothers and those who had care of
babies, he gave practical advice,
pointed out many falacies and show
ed the better methods that should be
practical in a masterly and forceful
manner. He Raid that the reasons
for the "Save" The Babies" and "Bet
ter Babies" movements were that too
many babies die and that too many
Are unhealthy; their are three ends
to be accomplished by these move
ments: First, to produce healthy
babies; second to keep them healthy
and third, to do these things with the
'east expenditure. He pled for com
mon sense in caring for young in
fants and laid great emphasis upon
the importance of proper feeding.
Xhe audience Friday night filled
the High School Auditorium to. over
flowing and no higher praise of Doc
tor Morgan's address need be given
than to state the fact that he held
the close attention of the audience to
the last word he uttered.
Saturday's Program.
Saturday was "the great day of
the feast." The Infant Welfare Ex
hibit was opened in one of the rooms
in the High School building and was
very complete it included not only
the things that baby needs for his
general comfort and welfare, but as
well those things which are hurtful to
the baby but which are too often
given to him; these last articles were
arranged on a table which bore a pla
cart with the simple legend "Baby
Killers."
This exhibit attracted a great deal
of attention and the committee who
had collected the exhibit were repeat,
edly praised for their splendid and
thorough work in this connection, by
Miss Tuttle head of the visiting
nurses of Columbus, who was present
Saturday afternoon and used the ex
hibit to illustrate and demonstrate
her very valuable talks to the ladies
who were present.
Miss Blanche Rossman had charge
oi tne exnioits and also of the liter
ature table wnicn contained many
valuable helps and suggestions for
the care ef the babies and children.
unrortunatety Mis iloumin was
tall fni thair h.ln whan alck. whv called upon for professional services
should they not eall upon them to pre-l1" hd only about three minutes for
vent and ta check the inread of die- her talk which was devoted to the ba
as among their children in the pub. Dy ain, sne denounced some harm-
llC SChOOlsT A sound mind in in k"' ncuiri in uui process ina cau.
unsound body ta ths object of health l attention to some of the instruc
supervision. tion given by Doctor Morgan on Fri-
Health suoerv s on was first Intro- a ""K
duoed in the schools of Boston. Mass- Miss Tuttle head of the visiting
achuetta. for the oursose of control- nurses of Columbus was a very wel
Ing diptheria, scarlet fever and small come surprise to the ladies in charge
pox epidemics among the children; of the program and her talks brought
the results obtained were so satis- many valuable suggestions as well as
factors that" it has been Uken up by I much valuable information for the
the schools of other cities and states, mothers and described the work of
In Ohio the State makes provision for the visiting nurses of Columbus. Sev
nrevantincr and itamoinff out hoirleral times she took occasion to com
cholera, while but little has been done pliment the local committee on the
to solve the child problems in the excellent exhibit they had made and
State. I in a most convincing manner show-
Dr. Brockway spoks of the splen- d desirability of a visiting nurse
,41,1 ,rw th.t k.. Kaan Inna h tha P" connection witn tne schools
Child Welfare Bureau in Washing- wun.Mi"Tnttle made the state
ton and then called attention to the menl " n" me aeatns among in
k.t i..t mnM tk.n half tha fanta are preventable. "Better Ba
children who began in the public
schools of the country received the
benefit of the grammar grades. There
in a marked decrease in enrollment
etwen the , primary and interme
diate grades and the grammar grades,
la marked contrast with other
towns of similar size in Ohio where,
tha club women declared that they had
not tim to devote to the observance
of Ah National Baby Week, the worn,
en Weneeon took time last week
to arrange and successfully carry out
a splendid program devoted to the
very important matter of securing
the . health, happiness and general
welfare of the babies that are and
re to be and the welfare of the little
fhildren.
.A general committee representing
. th) Clubs of the town took charge of
the observance, appointed the var
ious necessary committees and secur.
d the co-operation of the clubs and
Citizens of the town. The women of
the several committees did their work
' thoroughly and well calling forth the
frequent praise of the speakers who
were here from Columbus and Toledo.
To the eredit of Wauseon women let
it be said that every one of the clubs
contributed financial support for this
cause while the Boosters Club and
business men co-operated both by
' financial-assistance and active service
not the least of which was the fine
window displays of things for babies
comfort and welfare. The School
Board, Superintendent and teachers
all helped to make the observance of
Baby Week a complete success and
even a causal visitor in Wauseon last
week could not fail to be impressed
with the Idea that the people of this
s town were- Interested in the health
andi happiness of the babies and chil
dren. Friday had been designated by Gov.
erne- Willts as "School Day" and on
. Friday afternoon the program proper
begun- ia the High School building.
The teachers rest room was transformed-
'into a nursery- under the
charge, of Miss Gladys Waid where
; mothers' might leave their babies;
twelve babies occupied this room
Friday afternoon while their mothers
' listened to the address which was
f riven by Doctor' Brockway one of
he five physical supervisors of the
j? Toledo Public Schools. ' Dr. Brock
sway's address was on "Health Super
vision of Public School Children" and
was most convincing as to the desir
ability and even necessity for this
i work. Dr. Brockway said that Ameri
can "Prepardness" should begin in
'. the American Schools by conserving
I the health of the children tus raising
the standard of health in this country
and insuring to the nation strong
: healthful citizens. The aim of the
. good doctor ia twofold to prevent and
to cure -disease- people have faith in
their physicians at least enough - to
OLD MAID'S CONVENTION.
The old, but ever new play, "Old
Maids Convention" will be put on at
Pythian Castle on Thursday night
March 23rd, by the Pythian Sisters
of Wauseon Temple. Following we
give the cast of characters which in
itself will convince you that it will be
the funniest event of the season and
well worth your time, and price of
admission. "If You Can't Laugh,
Don't Come."
CAST OF CHARACTERS
Maribah Lonjoy, President of the
Old Maid s Matrimonial Club,
..' ......... .Leah Clark
Amarilla Heywood, Sec, Nellie Dill
Priscilla Hone, Treas..Mary Lehman
Anxiety Doherty Lola Knapp
Augusta Prim Melissa Rowe
Faithful Blossom Alice Hill
Fredora Bobkins Nettie ,Burr
Rhoda Larkin Florence Clark
Selina Baxter Clara McQuillin
Susannah Smith Chloe Robinson
Miranda Price Flossie Harper
Mary Ann Barnes .... Nellie Gorsuch
Sarah Jane Springster, Anna Harlton
Eliza Hooker ........ June Gorsuch
Esther Snyder .....".Bertha Vollmer
Marion Perkins Lydia Clark
Asenath Baker, Cora Upp
Amanda Horn, Ruky Upp
Amy Little Rena Lowe
Sophia Potter . . . Mayme Hauenstein
Professor Pinkerton, Reese Campbell
Young ladies, representing old
maids, Adda Edelman, Fern Disbrow,
Ada Omlor, Ruth Hill Mary Reese,
Minnie Gorsuch and Laura Edelman.
The performance will begin prompt
at 8 o'clock. Admission 25 cents.
bies Make Better Homes and better
Communities," was one of Miss Tuttles
striking sentences,
Doctor E. G. Coie gave a very prac
tical talk on the care of children'
teeth which so impressed a number of
the maakrr stated that it was due those who heard it that they express-
to two causes 1. e. illness among the d desire to have at lease an out-
children and tne inainerence oi par
ents: this is one of the principal rea
sons for health supervision in the
schools. AH education is based on
the physical ability of the child. In
ferior brain cells must necessarily
limit the education. In order to have
normal brain eells the body must be
kept healthy.
line of it in print. Doctor Cole has
been asked to furnish a copy of this
address and it will be published later.
Saturday evening the principal
speaker was Doctor E. r . McCamp
bell of Columbus. Secretary and ex
ecutive officer of the State- Board of
Health and Dean of the College of
Medicine of the Ohio State Univer
Dr. Brockway rave in some detail pity. Dr. McCampbell was introduc
the methods of health supervision in ed by Mr. F. H. Reighard; his sub
tha schools of Toledo and gave high ject was "The Conservation of the
era se to the work of the visiting oniia , and was a masterly and
nurses without whom, supervision convincing appeal for physical super,
would amount to very little. Medical I vision of public school children and
correct puDiic sanitation.
WAUSEON REUNION
AT WINDERMERE
The following clipping from the
Orlando, Florida, Daily Sentinel gives
those of us who stay at home a
glimpse of how our fellowtownsmen
in exile pass their time in Winter
quarters:
Ihe Wauseon people of winder-
mere had a reunion, with refresh
ments, at the Standish cottage Sun
day evening, February 20. There
were twenty-four present, including
Kev. Jones and wife, frora Ithaca,
Y. Each one was in a happy
mood, helping themselves to the deli
cacies of a well filled table and pass
ing jokes until the spacious room was
filled with merriment and good cheer.
When it came time for church ser
vices as manv as could crowd into
two automobiles, and some walking
with a lantern to show the way, re
paired to the little brown school
house and listened to a heljful talk
bv Rev. Jones. The seats were all
taken and extra ones used, so none
can say they were never in church
with no vacant seats. After the ser
vice nearly all returned to the cot
tage and had a social time.
ONE WHO WAS THERE.
KEEPING THEIR BIRTHDAY
National Organization of Camp Fire
Girls Celebrate Fourth Anniversary
What the Organization Is Doing
For Girls of America.
Don't fail to see "The Imperial
Vaudeville Company" at the Princess
Monday and Tuesday.
Specials worth while at William's
Grocery. Every Saturday, Phone 594,
Cochran Building.
The National Organization of The
Camp Fire Girls, ia just four years
old on Friday March 17th and their
method of celebrating the annivers
ary of the founding of their organi
zation is at once commendable and
worthy of note.
The National organization sent out
letters to all the groups of Camp Fire
iiiris urging tnat tnis birthday be
kept by gathering together and send
ing "Baby Kits" for the babies of
European countries that are devastat.
ed by war. In Wauseon the girls of
the "Wauson" camp under the guar
dianship of Mrs. G. E. Howe have
followed the suggestion and have
sent a number of these "Baby Kits"
to New York for transportation to
Europe for Belgian babies. With the
outfit Mrs. Howe sent a personal let
ter to the mother who might receive
the outfit telling who had sent her
the outfit and expressing kind re
gards for herself and her baby from
the Wauseon girls. This group of
Camp Fire Girls was organized in
June 1914, and so will not be two
years old until next June; the or
iginal number has been depleted by
removals from town until now there
are but seven resident members; some
idea of what this organization means
to these girls may be gained by the
readiness with which they follow the
suggestion alluded to above.
Besides the "Wauson" group of
girls there are two other groups of
tnese uamp Fire Girls in Wauseon
one organized by and under the lead
ership of Miss Florence Bayes and
another under the leadership of Miss
Ruth Brown. The headquarters of
the national organization is on Fourth
Avenue, New York City and the
birthday anniversary will be cele
brated in that city at the Washing
ton Irving High School Building, one
of the largest and finest school build
ings in the city, with an entertain
ment on Saturday March 18th. All
the various groups of Camp Fire
liirls in the city will be represented
at this gathering and one .of the fea
tures of the event will be the bring
ing of the packages containing baby
outfits, by the various groups of girls,
for shipment to Europe.'
The Camp Fire Girls is an organ
ization that is doing for the girls of
America what the National Boy
Scouts organization is doing for the
boys of America; teaching and train
ing them to be self reliant and self re
specting and to be kind and helpful to
those in need; enlarging the vision
and scope of their lives and prepar
ing them for lifes duties, emergen
cies, privileges and opportunities.
STOCK OH HAND
Estimated Amount of Grains Remain
ing In the Hands' of Ohio Farmers
March First, 1916 From Govern
ment, Crop Report.
JAMESON
Ask, anybody
Balsam.
about It Hanford's
Wheat: Estimated stocks on farms
March 1, this year, 12,100,000 bushels,
compared with 8,038,000 a year ago
and 9,828,000 two years ago. Price
on March 1 to producers, $1.11 per
bushel, compared with $1.41 a year
ago and $.92 two years ago.
Corn: Estimated stocks on farms
March 1, this year 62,400,000 bushels,
compared with 45,669,000 a year ago
and 54,112,000 two years ago. Price
March 1 to producers, 68 cents per
bushel, compared with 73 cents a year
ago and 63 cents two years ago.
ihe percentage of the 1915 crop
which was of merchantable quality
is estimated at 76 per cent., com
pared with 86 per cent, of the 1914
crop and 81 per cent, of the 1913
ciop.
Oats: Estimated stocks on farms
March 1 this year 26,900,000 bushels,
compared with 15,601,000. a year ago
and 19,570,000 two years ago. Price
March 1 to producers 42 cents, per
bushel, compared with 52 cents a
year ago and 39 cents two years ago.
Barley: Estimated stocks on farms
March 1 this year. 242,000 bushels,
compared with 228,000 a year ago
and 259,000 two years ago. Price
March 1 to producers, 59 cents per
bushel, compared with 62 cents a year
ago and 56 cents two years ago.
STORY HOUR.
Both the school library club meet
ing and the story hour for little
children will be held at the public li
brary Saturday afternoon.
The school library club for pupils
from the fourth to eighth grades;
inclusive, will have as its leader Mrs,
Jennie Bartlett, who will tell stories
from English history. The club will
meet at three o'clock.
The story hour for children from
kindergarten age to the third grade,
inclusive, will be held at 2:15 o clock.
An interesting miscellaneous pro
gram will be given.
NOTICE TO PARENTS.
Wauseon ' has an ordinance which
prohibits roller skating between
Chestnut and Elm streets, and the
Uity Hall and the T. & I. Station
This ordinance is being violated daily
and parents will please take notice
and warn your children and unless
stopped the law will be enforced.
'I have on hand four car loads of
buggies. Your attention is called es
pecially to the celebrated Cron and
Eckhart buggies. Besides these makes
I have two car loads of buggies bought
from a bankrupt stock at very low
prices. Come in and ' secure a bar
gain, as these buggies will be sold at
bareain prices.
49-16 CHAS. F. STOTZER.
HIGH SCHOOL LECTURE COURSE
The Kellog-Haines Singing Party,
the last number on the High School
Lecture Course, will present their
musical entertainment at the- High
School Monday, -March 20. This or
ganization presents a program of se-
operas, light operas and from other Printer and Newspaper Publisher Twenty-four Years a
musical literature, a lew selections s ' ' - -
from "The Bohemian Girl," "II Traav. Resident of WaUSeon A Close and Careful Ob-
tor," "Martha", "Songs of the Six
ties" and others are part of some of
their programs. While tne ' members
of the company are all good soloists
their claim to recognition is chiefly
in their quartet work. Also the cos
tumes of the company are very beau
tiful and elaborate which adds a
great deal to the attractiveness of
the program.
Reserved seats will be on sale Fri
day March 17, at Fink & Haumesser's
Drug Store. Please remember that
not more than six tickets are sold to
server Prominent in Public Affairs Well
Known and Liked in The County
After a tedious illness continuing
through many months, Harry Jame
son came to the end of the journey
through mortality and passed into the
life immortal at his home on West Elm
one person and that no 'phone orders ff .12:3"f-.m- S?;turday M"ch
will be taken while there are ronle ". having attained the age of for-
standing in
reservations.
line waiting to make
ty-six years, one month and eleven
daysu, i Funeral'" services. Vene Uield
at the Methodist church Monday af
ternoon at 2:30 the pastor, Rev. O. P.
Hoffman and Rev. A. Barker of
ficiated in the service of ' the church
of which Mr. Jameson was a mem
ber, following the sermon by the pas.
OTTOKEE GRANGE.
Friday evening March 24th.
Regular business session.
Program for lecturers hour.
ht: vc a if ri l
Orchard and Garden Work for 5j!"j.
t-v; i unci ui Bcvjve waa x euuei cu uy nau.
Discussion t j . iw
This Season of the Year.'
led by W. C. Barten.
Do we Understand our Business?
Harmon Gasche.N
wno are tne Keai Aggressers in
the Present War? D. W. Williams.
Paper Value of Things Forgotten.
Minnie Sebring.
Roll Call Quotations from Declar
ation of Purposes.
Why are so Many Farms for Sale?
A. K. Lioveland.
Music.
LECTURER.
seon Lodge F. & A. M. Mrs. Holmes
who sang in a beautiful manner ap
propriate selections at the beginning
the .country surveyors added to his
knowledge of the topography of the
county. One of his favorite forms
of recreation during the earlier years
of his residence in Wauseon was to
take long walks in -the country; be
cause of his habit of close and care
ful observation he saw many things
which would be passed -unnoticed by
the average person. He made many
trips through . different sections of
the country during the days when
railroad companies were anxious to
exchange transportation for newspa
per advertising and on the trips his
habit of observing added to his fund
of information and made him a most,
interesting companion. '
As a friend Mr. Jameson was loyal
and faithful and was one of those who
Lyons universalist
COUNTRY STORE SALE
The ladies of the Universalist
church are - going to give a country
store sale all day Thursday and
Thursday evening March 24th. Will
serve dinner and supper. Ice cream
and home made candies will be on I
sale during the day and staple articles
such as soda, baking powders, salt,
laundry soap and other articles too
numerous to mention. Also a -full
linei of baked goods. Better put your
order in early , as the goods will be
quicK saie articles, a coruiai invita
tion is extended to all. 49-2
SPELLING AT EflSD SCHOOL.
There will be an old fashioned
Spelling School at the Red School
District No. 6. York township, one I
half mile south of Zion church, Fri
day evening March 24. Prizes will!
be awarded to the best spellers.
Everybody welcome, old as well as I
young. Admission five cents.
LUU1SE UUlSUtlAiiiV.,
TVYhr.
,
I and close of the service of the church.
Hanford's Balsam of Myrrh is it-1 added to the beauty and imnressive-
self an antiseptic and the use of anylness of the church service bv sin?-
Lother remedy before applying it is ling the hymn "Nearer My God to
HARRY JAMESON
unnecessary.
examinations are made by all chil
dren of the first, fourth and eighth
rrades. One of the advantages of
supervision spoken of, was that chil
dren whom the parents would con
sider in normal health were often
found to have some trouble or ail-
Early Presentation of Easter Apparel A Noticeable
Feature of The Present Displays
Whereby Your Early Shopping Can Be Made
Exceedingly Promising and Profitable
The Ladies Ideal Millinery Now Open For Early Easter Shopping
MISS AUDREY SMITH, immediatelv from CLEVELAND, one of the EASTERN CENTERS of MILLINERY
FASHION, comes to us this SEASON as our Acting MILLINERY DESIGNER and TRIMMER who will be
pleased to wait upon you in the most favorable manner. Small and medium hats in both high and low
effects are shown in many variations to fit the needs or requirements most becoming the LADY. At the
present time the turban with either high or medium low crowns, small hat shapes with narrow straight,
rolling or drooping brims and sailors in every conceivable form are given much prominence.
Doctor McCampbell trave a few
startling statistics; among them were
the figures concerning the annual
death toll in Ohio: 65,000 persons
died in this state last year and of
this number 28,000 died from dis-
ment that needed attention; parents ease which modern science knows how
are notified and the family doctor to prevent, ou to ou children die eacu
may be called into the home to give day in Ohio under five years of
the medical aid that is needed. Bad age from preventable causes. There
teeth were spoken of as a menace to are three classes of physical trouble,
health nd the examination of the among children: Digestive diseases,'
teeth by an expert dentist is one of Respiratory diseases and Congenital
the essential points in the supervision debility. The milk supply was spoken
of the sublic school children of To- of as the most important factor in
ledo.
The sneaker urired open air rooms
for pale and sickly children, spoke of
the importance of seats to fit the chil
dren and the correct posture in the
seat He gave his own experience
with twelve different makes of form
aliiehjde candles which were used to
fumigate rooms but which failed to
destroy "Typhoid bugs and Diptheria
germs" snowing that too great re
liance cannot be Disced upon this
digestive troubles and Congential de
buity can only be overcome by the
eneral education of parents and the
control of marriage by legal enact
ment.
Ihe health of school children is
the fundamental thing tr. be consider
ed; three fourths of all schools are
'ound to be physically or mentally
defective. Teeth tear a close relation
a the health of the body and it fol-
'ows that defects in the teeth are a
Our Ladies and Misses Spring Suits
and Coats Find Popular
Favor For Early Spring
Selections
Our SUITS and COATS are DESIGNED and TAILORED
by the foremost AMERICAN MAKERS thus assuring you a
KNOWN QUALITY, STYLE and FIT. Though Quality is
our first purchasing lever, we are no less exact about the
Style and Fit of our Garments, (Suits or Coats.)
We invite you to make, early selections of our line while
shopping. You will find bur Quality High our Prices Right.
The Separate Skirts and Blouses
The Trend of Fashion points most strongly to
the very extensive use of the Separate Skirts and
Blouses.
In Our Display we have a range covering the
very newest modes and styles, complete enough to
meet the many demands of the Season.
When out shopping come in and inspect our
lines.
lhee" and "Lead Kindly Light'
which form a part of the Masonic
ritual. Following the service at the
church the body escorted by the Mas
onic ijoqkb was taKen to tne under
taking rooms of Edgar & Van Rensse.
laer, where it remained until Tues
day morning when accomnanied bv
the friends it was taken to the creama-
tory at Detroit, Mr. Jameson having
niaue provision Deiore nis deatn lor
this manner of disposal of his body,
Harry, only son of Levi and Martha
Boyd Jameson, was born at Rich
mond, Indiana. January 29th. 1870:
he moved with his parents to Celina
Ohio where his father published a
newspaper' and which continued to be
his home until 1892 when he came
with his father to Wauseon and was
associated with him in publishing the
miton bounty Tribune since ' 1892.
Mr. Jameson's home has been in Wau
seon and during the twenty-four
years of his - residence here he has
made for himself many friends not
only in wauseon but in the entire
county. It is doubtful if any one per.
son was ever better known throueh
the county or if any one person was
better acquainted not only with the
people of the county but as well with
their places of residence and the lo
cation of their farms than was M:
Jameson. '
He entered his father's printing
office at an early age and became
competent in all branches of the
printing and newspaper business, re
maimng with his father and carrying
in the later years the heaviest share
of the responsibility and care of the
business, until in 1901 the Tribune
was sold to other parties. He was
well liked by his fellow printers for
he was of an obliging nature always
willing to help out m an emergency,
Confinement in the printing office
through many years undermined his
health so that after the sale of the
Tribune he sought employment in the
pen air and serving as a helper to
knew how to entertain a difference
of opinion without impaling a friend.
ship. He took an active interest in
public affairs and. by voice and pen
took issue, with those public policies -which
he considered fallacious. He
was several times elected-and served '
in public office ' in Clinton township
was appointed and served as tax as
sessor for Wauseon and was appaint-
ed by Governor Willis, district tax
assessor, for Fulton county, a posi
tion that he was forced to resign- af
ter a few months service on account
of his failing health. For. many
years Mr. Jameson was an attendant
and associated with the Congrega
tional church of Wauseon, his father
and mother being members of that
church. After the death of his par
ents Mr. Jameson became interested
in the MethodistT Sunday School and
later united with the Methodist
church. , His- life was always clean
and upright and his dealings with -others
always marked with scrupulous
honesty. He was a loyal and faithful
member of the Masonic fraternity ana
carried the moral precepts of the
lodge fnto the practices of his daily
life.
On June 4th. '1913, he was united
in-marriage to Miss Julia F. Decker
of Liberty Center; but the satisfac
tion and enjoyment which he found in
his home life was destined to be of
short duration. Mr. .Jameson bore the
long months of illness patiently, hope,
lulfy, and courageously and through
it all- he had the unfaltering and un
tiring care and support of his loyal
wife. "
His father, mother and one sister
have preceded him to the life beyond;
there remain to cherish his memory
his wife, an uncle and aunt, Mn and
Mrs. John Jameson of Cincinnati a
cousin, Miss Elizabeth Garwood of
Columbus and a large circle of friends
who while they regret 'that he has
gone from them and sincerely sym
pathize with Mrs. Jameson in her
bereavement yet f.eel that he has
passed into rest and peace and that
(Continued on page ten)
methods of disinfecting. "Have your ?reat handicap. Such defects are
kula kn their own Dmcila" was his I discovered by medical or health su-
urgent plea In order to avoid spread oervision and may be corrected thus
r ftiaa and hia oclnion of the Drac I conserving the health of the child
tice of permitting children with colds nd insuring his physical and mental
to run at large was made evident Dy Development.
the following paraphrase of Mother
(loose:
"Tom Tom was a careless son,
He cauirht a cold and away he run;
He rent the air with c ouh and sneeze
And waved his handkerchief in the
breeze."
Dr. ftroekwav strongly oteed health
supervision of the schools and said
that ant conscientious medical man
will find trouble with the children.
Friday Evening,
Friila avimltiffa lansion was open
d bv a beautiful little play by the
Dr. McCampbell spoke at some
length upon public sanitation as a
means of health conservation and
laid that defective sanitation indi
cates a lower plane of civilization,
while good community health means
community nrosnentv.
Dr. McCamnbell urged the employ
ment of a visiting nurse to have
I'harge of health sunervision of the
oublic schools of Wauseon and suc
ceeded in srrousing much interest
along this line.
As has been said the program was
a great success. Much valuable m-
pupUa o the prd under the direc- f t- . instruction was eain-
tion or Mist wt won. ine xiue oi me ((j by thos who tended the sessions
play which was in fact a portion of
the play given at the Princess Thea-1 (Continued on page ten)
-, v.,
M
V.iU'1
V 1 I ! i
hi X
CORSETI ERE
MRS. STELLA HODGES, a MEMBER of our CORPOR
ATION and COMPANY, has just completed a course of instruc
tion and has successfully passed the examination in ANATOMY
-and HYGIENE of Corsetry, and in Individual Fittings, thereby
being proficient in the Art of harmonizing the individual lines of
the figure with the laws of Health and the demands of Fashion.
When purchasing your Corsetry, call f6r MRS. HODGES,
her information and service will be of no small passing value.
Call or Phone for Special Appointments For Fittings
We carry the Nemo, American Lady
and Warner's Corsets
Conservative Styles at Popular Prices
Aim
318
$lf-RE0UClN6
QUALITY BEFORE PRICE
SPENCER-EDGAR-VOLLMER COMPANY
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
P R E SjT.I Q..E
11 II Whea a check is received bearing :
HI the name, "First National Bank", it -
II .carries with it prestiee and the re- . . I .
Illl cipient knows the maker of the check .
n has sound banking connections. ,
HI In offering the services of this bank,
Illl ' we are placing at your disposal bank- 1
HII ing relations that must reflect to your l
j advantage in all your business l
Illl dealings, which is prestige. 11
First National Bank
HI "The BANK-BY-MAIL Bank
II Wauseon, - -" - - . Ohio
