yit's a Thriller, "The Maxwell Mystery," New Novel-a-Week, Starting Monday in The Star
(lUn© Sfcnds
lUmi(dl<eir Liiviinag € ©aft
—That'a what tha big financier, ataal truat
magnata and aconomiat. Oaorga W Pcrklna.
la doing In hla artlclta tailing how houaa
krepare can knock th« tar out of tha high
coat of food. TODAY'S ARTICLE 18 ON
PAGE T.
U. S. AVIATORS HAD ARMY
BREMERTON FACES ERA OF GREAT PROSPERITY
WHAT CHANGE
IN NAVY YARD
WOULD MEAN!
A new era In navy yard de
velopment in the United Statee.
and Indirectly In Scattle'e
prosperity, will be marked by
the transformation of th« Pugst
Sound navy yard, at Bremer
ton, to a shipbuilding base of
the first ciasa. <• the houee et
Washington ratlflee the ection
of the eonete Thurcday in vot
Ing en appropriation of 92.0**.-
000.
For probably the first time In
hletory, politicians have recog
nised natural merit In prefer
ence to political pull In deter
mining a sizable navy yard ex
penditure.
Senator Polndexte-'s mess
ure, appropriating 12.005.00 C.
for the Immediate develop
ment. haa yet to pass the houee.
But Bremerton Is confident that
»!»• bill will be pa«•«"! The stlm
* uiaim* e?t«-«t of the sen*' >'• action
»ar frit Per Immediate 7 ,>OC the
receipt of Thursday"* Issue of The
®»ar, which carrl«d first word of
t*e news to thn city
Would Add 3.000 Mechanics
Three thousand of the hlahee;
type of skilled mechanic* w|l! he
sdded to the precept staff of 1.400
If the yard takes up battleship con
stmctlon.
The annual payroll, aside from
the thousands of dollars paid ?o »n
--11sted navy men there, was tl IS'*.-!
000 diirlna 19IS.
If would he more than donb!»4
under the Dew era
ANO 76 PER CENT OF TIIH
MONEY, ACCORDING TO TH V.
BREMERTON rOMMKRriAI.
CLfB EIOIREB. EVENT!* A LI, Y
FINI* ITS WAT TO SEATTI.E.
To tranKorm the Pu«et Round
nary yard for bsttleshfp construe
tlon. about $«00.000 m<iat be spent
for building ways >50 feet long
Cantilever cranee and a massive
overhead traction system will cost
1250.000. f
All thia eonatrwtlon would he
done, probably, within the alt
month* following th» passage of
th« hill The rest of the appropria
tion It I* propoaed to iiae for small
er equipment and to enlarge the
He Is Leading Hunt for Mexican Bandit
e>RICY OKM JOHtS sJ PERSHINO
HE FITTED UP A MANSION FINE, FOR NORWOOD SPARED NO GOLD; HE ASKED EM THERE TO DRINK AND DINE, AND FUNNY TALES HE TOLD
AT THE lajrt session of the leg Mature, Norwood W. lJrockett, a
young man of prepossessing appearance and eloquent, tongue,
rented a rather palatial residence not far from the mate house
There he kept "open house." Membera of the legislature felt
free to drop In at any time and partake of the food and drink that
alwaya «•• plentifully on tap.
Norwood wa*. and la, an enraging fellow-
He could tell a atory with the beat of them, and he aeemed pos
•eased, alao, of a vaat amount of Information on pending lillla In the
legislature. He alwaya was willing to explain any little detail of
legialatlon to the busy leglalatora who couldn't find time to read and
atudy the hill* for themselves.
At each aeaaion of the legislature there are a thousand or more
Mil* Introduced The legislative sesalon last* 60 days The flmt 30
4ay« ara mainly apant with the Introduction of new bllla
It la In tba laat half of the aaaalon that bllla a/a ooualdarad In
* * • * •
WHAT THEY THINK OF
BREMERTON'S FUTURE
"Bremerton'e population
will double aa coon ec chip
construction le ftirted at
the Puget eeund navy yard."
—A. P. Reevee, mayor of
Bremerton.
"Poindester le on the Job.
end ct laat e Peclflc Coaet
yerd, that hac the greateet
natural fecilltlee of cny
navy yerd In the country,
haa been Juotly racognlaed."
K. J. Priedlender. eecretary
of the Bremerton Commer
cial Club.
"Shipbuilding In the Puget
cound navy yard marks the
moot Important develop
ment In the Nerthwect
cincc the discovery ef gold
In A lech a W B. Jceeup.
editor ef the Bremerton
Searchlight.
rresent facilities of tbe yard.
It la understood that a battle
cruiser, which would take three
years to build, would be the ~'lrst
Job for the Pn*et Hound yard. Ma
terial for Ita construction would
!*>ltln to arrive at Bremerton by the
flrat of January, lfl7. If the appro
prlatlon program noes thru.
Repair work that will keep 1,400
mechanics busy for two years has
been assigned to the yard
Expect a Bigger City
It Is estimated that Bremerton.
rharle«on, Manette and Port Or
chard eventuaily w||| be Incorporat
ed Into otic city of a Joint population
of from 80.000 to .16.000
THE PIOET BOI'ND NAVY
VARO WU. TURN BE ONE OP
SEATTLE'S GREATEST SOfRCEH
OP BfSfNESS.
Rremerton real estate ralne*
hare stiffened with the an nourirr>
mwnt of the senate'* action.
Week* ago several Seattle dealer*
hualed ihmiwlvn taking option*
A general nhtftlnac of real e*tat«
transfer* haa commenced.
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS i
VOLUME 18 Si:AT 111, WASH., IKIDAV, MARCH 17, 1916. ONE CENT
NEWS PICTURES OF VILLA'S RAID ON COLUMBUS. N.M.
Accident «f Columbue, N. M . wounded whan Villa bandits raided tna village, being rushed to a
* capital in II Peeo, where alt weunded were taken. The tram carrying the wounded wee met et the
It Peeo etation by doctors MfaUtene who caw that they ware well cared fee.
Man, covarad with a ahaat, laavlng atation at Bl Paao, whara ha waa taken, with other wounded,
after the attack of Villa bandlta on Columbua, N. M.
HODGE SAYS HE'LL TELL ON 'EM
Threatens to Expose Badger Victims Who Aid Prisoner
Sheriff Hodge announced Fri
day that he will wait until Fri
day night for word from Loa
Angelea that Deputy M. E.
Hally had left there for Seattla
with Mra. laabel Clayburg, al
leged Seattle "badger queen,"
and than—
If no word cornel —
H* will open up, ha say*, on
wealthy alleged victim* of the
woman In Seattle, who. ha aaya.
ara aiding her fight agalnat
extradition, and "glva them all
the publicity they want —and
then aomt,"
I "They are hampering the end* of
; Justice," he declared. "They mu*t
be dealt with summarily."
Mr*. Clayburg wan refused a
writ of habeas onrpu* In the sit
perior court at Ixis Angele* Thurs
day, ami given 24 hours In which to
prepare for a trip to Seattle fur
trial on ft rharK»- of conspiracy to
It takea considerable time to read 1,000 bllla and moat of the
leglalatora do not read them. They take gome one else's word for
what they contain
A legislator la a huay man lie has much correspondence to care
for He la nearly alwaya Intereated In some little menaure of hie
own If he ran get action on that, he la willing to take the other
bill* for granted
He gets only a day for 60 daya. and he uaually spends more
than that to ll»e In Olympla.
He Isn't going to read a lot of dry measures 1,000 of them If
he can xet out of It. That a where Norwood llrockett mine in mighty
nicely to quite ii few legislator*. UK WAS NEVER TOO 111 I'O
EXPDAIN HOME OK THE Uli.l.H WITH WHICH HE WAH K()
THOKOLY KA MIIJ A It.
Norwood Rroekett la not an "upllfter"
Ha doe* not claim to be
Ha didn't kaap that big manalon In Olympla merely to five tha
• • • • •
I blackmail Samuel I Silverman, a
wealthy mining promotor and club
man. and other persons here.
Gives Notlcc of Appeal
Defense Attorney Karl Hogers of
1 Un Angele* gave notice of an ap
peal to the circuit court, which ac
Hon would delay the caae here for
several weeks
Thursday afternoon Attorney
John J. Sullivan of Seattle ap
peared unexpectedly In the caae
at !x>* Angele*, and a**oclated
1 himself with llogers, according to
word from the California city.
"One of 'he victim* ha* gone
from here to Ijos Angele*. and I*
financing the Clßvburg fight In the
background." *ald Sheriff llodge
"We have a line on him. a* well a*
on other* who are *tlll here
"I announce right now that If
they don't withdraw and let the law
take Its proper course I will turn
over every bit of evidence I've got.
• • • • •
including the name* of everv vie
tlm the gang photographed during
the two years or nmre of their op
eratlons and the picture* them
selves. to the newspaper*.
"At the *ame time, using photo
graph* a* evidence. I can charge a
number of our best citizens, so
• ailed, with crime* The mlmlmum
penalty for sucb crime*, I believe,
Is two years In the penitentiary."
While Mrs. Claybtirg's fate |« still
uncertain. Mis* l.llllan Peterson
and Mis* Dottle Coots, the two
other a!l«#rcd "badger girl*" brought
here for trial from San ►Yanclaco,
are languishing In the county Jail.
Both girl* are Innocent of the
charge* against them, according to
John Murphy, their attorney.
WEATHER FORECAST
Fair tonight and Saturday;
frost tonight.
boys a good time because he sympathised with them for their bard
labors and their underpaid salaries He didn't study bills In the leg
islature out of a high sense of civic duty, ao that the state, thru In
formation he gave legislator*, would profit.
llrockett Is a very matter-of-fact sort of chap
HE RENTED THE MANSION RECAI'SE THE STONE W KM
HTFIt CORPORATION PAID THE RENT. HE PAID FOR DINNERS
AND CIO ARM AND WHATEVER OTHER ENTERTAINMENT DEO
ISEATORH AND THEIR Fill ENDS OOT AT HIS I'DACE HKCAVSE
THE STONE WEHHTER CORPORATION FOOTED THE MIU-S.
lie talked for certain measures because the Stone• Webster cor
poration wanted those measures passed He argued against other
bills hecauso the Stone-Wohster corporation wanted them killed
Norwood Brockets you aee, waa, and la, on* of the attorney* of
the Stona-Wabeter corporation. He head* the army of lobbylata for
thla big company.
• • • • •
The laat session of the legislature was very nearly owned, body
* * * + +
CONGRESS GETS
BUSY AT LAST ON
PREPAREDNESS
President Signs Army Bill;
House Takes Up Hay
BOTH BRANCHES READY
MUST FOLLOW BANDIT
INTO WILD MOUNTAINS
EL PASO, Msrch 17.—1f
Carraniletaa do not win the
race to capture Villa, the U.
8. forces muat follow him
to his fsvorita haunts In
mountainous Wsstern Chi.
hushus.
This wss mads svldsnt
today by late reports from
ths advancing forcss.
Whlls Osn. Parshlng'a
troops wsrs laboring thru
ths dust snd heat of Chi
huahua desert. Villa and his
followsrs were ssld to have
arrived In ths forbidding
mountalna of San Busna
Ventura district.
Villa Is famlllir with the
wild Sifrri Madras. west of
Csntral Chihuahua, having
rosmsd ths country ss an
•wtlaw sines Ms youth. A
long gusrllls campaign, with
bloody night raids by tha
bsndlts upon American
camps. Is looked for.
BY BONO P. CCDDES
rnl»»d Ptiff ( ■
WASHINGTON. March 17.—
Congress. dropping all other con
alderatlc ns today. began actual
work on army reorganisation Sen
ator Chsmberlsin reported hi*
army Increase hill from committee
and announced he w«a ready to
call It up for consideration Mooda>
Chairman flay of the house mili
tary rommittee opened with a
• |x«erh bearing on his home bill
to make the regular army 140,•
000 strong
"On a queatlon of this charac
ter." he declared, "all Americana
ahould stand together "
Tremendoua applause greeted
thla.
Hay called the hill a "reasonable
measure," and said
"lt will meet opposition from
(hose who are opposed to any de
fenalve legislation and from those
who think It doe* not go far
enough.
"We hm a volunteer system In
thla conntry and must deal with
condition* a* the> ar«>. not aa elae
where In countries where there I*
compulsory military service
He's Agalnat Conaerlptlon
"An army of 200.000 men would
meai compulaory aervice I don t
| thlnf the country would accept
| such a proposition."
Great applause at thi* point dem
onstrated there wa* a strong antt-
I conscription sentiment.
rontlnulng. Hay *ald:
An army of 250.000 men would
coat the nation $750,000,000 annu
ally. I don't believe congress la
ready to saddle such nil expense a*
that on till* country In times of i
peace."
President Wilson signed the Joint
resolution of house and senate
bringing the regulsr army up to its
full strength. It provides for an
Immediate increase in the number
of fighting men.
FT. LAWTON TROOPS
MAY GO TO ALASKA
The Second battalion, now at
Fort Lawton, may go to Alaaka
to relieve the battalion there,
If a recommendation made by
Col. Wilaon. In command at
Ft. Lawton, la accepted by the
wsr depsrtment.
t»* THAI VII
ft*
Measure
TAJ^T
J-/EDITION J.
TROOPS FIND
VILLA CHASE
IS TOUGH JOB
M„ PASO, March 17.—Swallowed up in the hills and
deserts of Mexico, two American expeditions are seeking
brancisco \ ilia today, while their movements arc screened be
hind an almost inifienetrable cc»v>rship
Driving along the oa«tern slope of the Sierras, Col. DoddV
column is expected to reach the Ameriran colony at Duhlan
today. Finding all Mormons there safe, he will continue
hi* forced march toward Casas Grandes, in an attempt to cut
off \ ilia's retreat into Sonora.
The American army which started from Columbus is
marching slower south of I'alomas.
One hundred Carranza scouts and an army aeroplane are
l»eing used in the effort to find Villa.
Sweeping in a gigantic circle miles in extent, the aero
plane is flying ahead of the column, seeking indications of
tlie Villistas or of Villa himself.
For the present, at least, the bomb dropping ability of
these aeroplane pilots will not he tested, owing to the fart
that there arc a number of Carran/a troops in the
Casas (.randes country also trailing Villa, and it would be
hard for the birdmcn to tell friend from foe while flying
high. '
Thousands of Mexicans Reported Ready
to Join Villa in War Against Americans
Reports from Tresidio, Texa*. tell of renewed bandit
raids by Villa sympathizers on American soil. It is declared
thousands of Mexicans in the great stretch south of Pre
sidio were ready to join Villa.
De«ertion* of Carranza soldiers thru Chihuahua arc re
ported A rumored revolt in Ojinaga, in which the com
mander was said to have been a-sassinated, was officially
denied.
While the censorship is expected to withhold details of
fighting with Viliista band- recently seen ju<t ahead of Col.
Dodd's men, unofficial stories of skirmishes arc hourly
expected
Civil authorities are inclined to doubt Carranza's sin
cerity. They ask why the expedition was not permitted to
use the railroad to travel from Juarez to Casas Grandes
instead of having to make a terrible forced march over the
barren desert.
Deep sand is impeding the progress of the column froin
Columbus. Wagon trains find it hard to keep up with the
cavalry.
The infantry i* greatly troubled with the treacherous
sands. At midday it is intolerably hot, with no shelter from
the burning Min. Rrief halts are occasionally made during
the day, but for the most part the soldiers must plod steadily
onward thru suffocating clouds of dust.
Chaw After Villa Coating $72,000 a Day;
Millions May Be Spent Before He Is Caught
It is costing the United States government $50 a minute,
or $72,000 a day, to hunt Villa, according to Maj. Win.
Elliott's estimate. Millons may be expended before the
BANDS IN ALL PARKS
That's What Lamping Will Propose
nands will probably play In all
of the city park* next summer.
Park Commissioner George B.
Damping said Friday morning he
expected to Introduce a resolution
at the park hoard meeting this aft
ernoon providing for equal dls
trlbutlon this year of the board's
$5,000 music appropriation.
"I believe," he Raid, "that the
hoard made a mistake last year In
not dividing up the appropriation
nmong all tlie parks.
"It la ray Idea that two or three
hands of equal sixe and merit
ahould lie employed to play thin
summer, and that everybody should
and soul, by the Stone-Webster corporation. Gov. Lister, however
was not satisfactory in many respects. Ills power of veto held some
of the measures in check. Others, not quite so plainly of Seattle Kleo
trie Co. origin, were passed over his vetoes
Now that the city election is over, the Stone-Webster political
corps Is busy. The average cltiien lays off between elections. Not
i.o the Stone-Webster corporation It's In politics the year 'round.
lhirltig the past few weeks, several secret conferences were held
by prominent factors In the republican party and by a number of news
paper editors in Seattle, Spokane and Tacoma.
A political slate was formed.
Heading this slate, George A. Lee, ufftil two years ago a resident
of Spokane, but now living In Seattle, Is to make the race for gov
ernor.
Lee's selection by the slatemakers Is natural and entirely logical.
He faithfully nerved the Stone-Webster corporation, and from that
standpoint he Is enlltled to reward.
TOMORROW THE STAR WILL TELL OF LEE'S "SERVICES."
* * * * *
(Continued on page S)
be given a chance to hear them."
Such a plan was advanced by
The Star last summer, but the
board declined to adopt It Con
certs were provided for Volunteer
park, and seml-professlonals played
In some other pHrks.
NEW WAR BUDGET UP
RERUN', March 17. — Introduc
ing a new war budget in the relch
stnu today. l>r. Helfferlch of the
Cierman treasury declared enemv
agent* were spreading rumor* to
hinder subscriptions to the kaiser's
fourth war loan.
