1
OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
VOL. LVII. NO. 30
AT THE
CRESCO OPERA HOUSE
Photoplays From Friday Night Till Friday Night
GOOD MUSIC EVERY NIGHT )_V\
FRIDAY NIGHT-We will again show the Cresco Movies. Although
not very clear, it's a great novelty to see yourself in movies.
Also a very good 5-reel Broadway Universal Drama, with Lulu
Glaser. This will be good. Come out and see yourself and
others in the home movies. 10c ynd 20c. One-half of the re
ceipts go back to the business n'^n of Cresco.
SATURDAY-Matinee 2:30. Night 7:30, 8:30 and 9:30. A very
good 3-reel Universal Feature and also some Good Comic.
Admission 5c and 10c. Don't forget the Matinee at 2:30.
MONDAY NIGHT—Carlyle Blackwell, one of the most beloved
actors on the stage, in "The Clarion," a 5-reel World Drama.
This is a big story of a man trying to fight big odds and do
right. Some very thrilling scenes in this play as the big mob
mob reaches the Clarion office, automobile wrecks and a big
love romance between a beautiful woman and a real man. 10c
and 15c.
TUESDAY NIGHT—7:30 and 9:00 o'clock. "The Scales of Justice,"
with Paul McAllister, a Paramount Feature, by the famous
players. More than your money's worth this night. 10c to
everyone for a good 5-reel drama.
THURSDAY NIGHT—Triangle Program will be run just one night
next week on account ot the road show which will be here on
Baptist Church.
Regular services will be held next
Sunday at the Baptist Church. Morn
ing theme, "God's Wealth, What is
It?" Evening topic, "Asleep at the
Switch."
We have been fortunate in securing
the famous Canadian Jubilee Singers of
Hamilton, Ont., Canada, for March 31,
They are the premier colored concert
company of America. For five years
they touered England, Ireland, Scot
land and Wales, and for 30 years the
United States and Canada. Further
notice will be given. Tickets will be
on sale soon. Keep the date open
and enjoy one of the rare tnats coming
to Cresco. The concert *01 be given
in the Baptiat church
Wednesday night. First show at 7:30, second at 9:00 clock.
Triangle presents Miss Julia Dean, star of stage land in the
greatest play and question of to-day, "Matrimony. Also a
rP«ghnWa 2-reel Keystone Comic, Raymond Hichcock in "Stolen
Magic." Wait for this. 10c and 15c.
tipo.9. Barker.
Methodist Notes.
The pastor will preach both morning,
and evening next Sabbath at the usual
hours. Sunday school will convene at
11:45 and Junior League at 3 p. m. Ep
worth League at 6:45.
Let the interest in the .preaching
services, the Sunday school and Leagues
be continued through the early spring
days. Temptations to neglect will be
many and very enticing. This is one
place where our religion counts. In
conquering the sins. of omission. The
work of the kingdom depends on you.
Congregational Chnrck.
Regular services will be held next
Sabbath morning at 10:30 conducted by
Rev. Gammons. Sermon theme, "The
Ahern Bmm. Pbohe.SH
If
I
"inwMinm
Present City Officials Renominated.
The Plain Dealer of last week con
tained a call for a city caucus, but as
the last legislature had changed the
law regarding the last date permissable
for filing nominations for city officers,
it was necessary to hold the caucus at
an earlier date, and posters distributed
on Friday filled the Court House Satur
day night, as there were persistent
rumors that a certain little clique with
personal grievances intended to try to
oust part or all of the present city of
ficials. The effort materialized in the
nomination of A. L. Peterson against
Mayor Barker, the latter winning by a
vote of 101 to 25 for Peterson.
E. P. Farnsworth and I. L. Eaton
were renominated for the offices of
treasurer and assessor respectively.
S. A. Hamilton, alderman-at-large,
was renominated by acclamation, but
S. S. Culver was opposed by D. A.
Palmer and Ed Pollitt. The vote stood
Culver 75, Palmer 32 and Pollitt 18.
On motion, the chairman, H. C. Bur
gess, appointed a city committee as
follows: J. C. Webster, L. P. Barth
and O. J. McHugh.
The ward caucuses renominated the
present incumbents as follows:
1st Ward—J. W. Klingle.
2nd Ward—W. H. Taubman.
3rd Ward-H. G. Addie.
There were no contests in the ward
caucuses except in the third, where W.
F. Rathert was nominated in op
position to Addie.
Although every city official was sup
ported almost without exception in
1914 by the democrats of the town and
were opposed by many of the promi
nent participants in Saturday's cau
cuses, it took on the hue of most non
partisan affairs and not a democrat
was nominated for office save Rathert
who was defeated, none were recog
nized in the organization of the caucus
and a strictly republican city commit
tee was appointed. As a non-partisan
caucus, it was a joke, but the demo
crats of the town can take satisfaction
in the knowledge that in 1914 they elec
ted the man whom the republicans this
year have endorsed.
Fam far Reat
C. 3D. NICHOLS So
PLUCK, PROGRESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS
tof Cresco
ranter pre-
E. F. ftrrts.
i- 'J*
Al H. Wilson and Company March 22
All great singers have their admirers.
A single concert given by a certain ce
lebrity in New York last winter netted
over $10,000 while a season of twenty
five concerts realized nearly $200,000
which proves that music makes a grip
ping appeal, to the public's purse
strings. It also proves that quality
and not quantity is the touchstone of
the music lovers approval. This latter
idea i9 also firmly held by Al H. Wil
son who will appear at "The Cresco"
Wednesday, March 22, 1916. Mr. Wil
son has by his talent and high baritone
vocal ability justly earned the soubri
quet of "golden voiced singer" and has
always during his career followed the
principal of quality rather than quan
tity which explains in a measure why
he is not supported by a large chorus in
his performances, and the truthfulness
of his reasoning has been demonstra
ted by the undoubted success of his ef
forts. The public {has responded with
their patronage most liberally and no
doubt will continue to do so.
Mr. Wilson's songs this season are
all new and so varied in theme and
tempos that it shows a novelty in the!
program that is sure to be particularly!
attractive. The titles are "Yefeter-1
day," "As Years Roll On," "Mother
Mine," "She Left me for a Teddy
Bear," "Rag Time in Germany," etc. I
The play is also new and is called "As
Years Roll On." It is in three acts!
and periodic in construction being en
tirely different from any of his former
offerings. Mr. Wilson's character
commences as a young man and ends at
the age of fifty and in portraying the
variousrphases of life proves himself as
gifted in character acting as he is in
the romantic. The plot tells a story
that is $oth novel and new, combined
with co&iedy that becomes apart of it
and therefore more enjoyable. A
strong supporting company is promised
while the scenery is elaborate and pic
turesque.
Farmers' Institute at Chester.
There will be a Fanners' Institute
held at Chester, Saturday, March 25th.
Good program. Good speakers. This
will be one of the best Farmers' Insti-
TJHE
Do not delay purchasing your Spring Suit or Coat any longer than is necessary, because, well you might
wish that you had picked it out sooner.
CRESCO, IOWA
Dealer.
CRESCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1916 $1.00 PER YEAF
Threatened to Kill his Wife.
Carl Hempel living on the August
Lauck place adjoining Maple Leaf was
arrested Wednesday for beating his
wife and threatening to kill her with
an ax.
The couple have been married nine
years. They came here from New
York city last fall. In the past nine
years eight children have been born to
them, six of whom have died. The
youngest living child is but three weeks
old.
Tuesday morning Hempel called his
wife about six o'clock a. m., to get up
and get the breakfast. She had been
kept awake nearly all night with the
baby and did not rise when called. This
angered her husband and he came at
her she says, with a butcher knife
which she knocked out of his hand. He
then grabbed and an ax, and she testi
fies he said he would kill her. She es
caped and with the aid of neighbors
came to town with her two children,
aged four years and three weeks re
spectively. Shes wore out a warrant
for Hempel and Wednesday afternoon
Sheriff Ferrie came over from Cresco
and arrested him. Hempel was brought
to Elm a and given a preliminary hear
ing before Justice Wentz and was
bound over to the grand jury under
bonds of $1,000. He did not try to raise
TIME IS NOW AT HAND WHEN
I everybody should think of New Spring
Togs. And what is more important to
the woman's or miss's wardrobe than the New:
Spring Suit or Coat? In thinking of Suits or Coats try and
associate the word "Printzess" with your thoughts, for you
then have made a big start in selecting your Suit or Coat.
The word "Printzess" itself is only a small word, but what a
lot it means to have the Printzess labej neatly sewed in the
collar of the coat. It means that no matter where you go
you will be considered correctly dressed by the world of
fashion.
We have many styles, many choths and many colors to
show you, in both Suits and Coats, when you call at our
garment department.
BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY*
FOR HOME BAKING
ROYAL
BAKING POWDER
THE GREATEST BAKE-DAY HELP
No Alum—No Phosphate
%mi*
Mrs. Hempel has no relatives in thto
country. All of her folks live in Ger-r
many. —Elma New Era.
The Highway Problem.
Tuesday, March 21, at 10 a. m. sharp, 1
an opening address will be made on the.
Outlines of Proposed Reforms by J. E,„
Murtha, chairman. The meeting will
be a home affair among ourselves in
which it is expected that practical roadf
men, farmers, mail carriers and busi- ',
ness men will participate and take an 'j:
active part. The committee consist- i-rj
ing of Converse, Doolittle, Smith, Rice,
Conway, Sobolik and McAllister wiQ
report according to the usual' require- v|
ments of such bodies. Chairman.
Eggs For Hatching
44
Bishop Loafley to Visit Cresco.
Rt. Rev. Harry T. Longley, Suffragan
Bishop of Iowa, will visit Grace EpisCO*.
pal Church on Tuesday evening of next
week, March 21st, to preach and hoMK
confirmation services. He will be
assisted by Kenneth D. Martin,
Faribault, who has been in charge of
Grace Church for some time.
Services will commence at 7:30 o'clock.
The public cordially invited. 4
from High-Grade White Plymou^,
Rocks. The old reliable winter layers,*
41eo baby chicks for sale. Write
v-4
3
..'3
'»*•«. ft *VHx. '•"•Jl
-t
