WWWJWWwdSWBHWBWSBWWPMi
i
1
, ! ! v ' $
Largest Weekly Circulation in "V
Northern Arizona '
A Modern Printery
f,,JJ5J3' ? J 5 5 J"
4" !' J'.,
Official Stock Paper of" Northern
Arizona
ine Commercial Printing
: -j-
VOLUME XXXI11
FLAG STAFF, ARIZONA, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1916
Number 19
Coctmiim
F MHtei
"V1'
i k
i' .
t
ROAD INFORMATION FOR
TRAVELERSJYJO. ENGINEER
County Engineer W. H. Power has
compiled tho following information
concerning county roads for the in
formation of the traveling public:
The bridge over Walnut creek one
mile west of Winona on the National
Highway was washed out March 11th
on account of the overflow from Lake
Mary.
Two culverts on the Flagstaff-Williams
road were washed out by the
flood waters March 12th but have
been replaced, however snow is still
four feet deep on the highway near
Maine station.
The Bottomless Pits have evidently
been filled by the flow of water from
River de Flog, as they are not taking
any more of the water from the river.
The water has .backed up over the
high fill crossing the river to a depth ,
of four feet. The bridge is still in
place but liable to go out at any time.
The large four foot culvert placed
under the Big Fill by the Santa Fe
east of Cliffs is running at full capa
city, necessitating the placing of a i
third culvert on the Flagstaff -Winslow '
road. '
Snow is melting so rapidly that it
has taxed every water runway to its
utmost and it is a physical impossi-'
bililty to care for all the breaks until
the big part of the runoff has gone,
which will be in a reasonably short!
time.
WILL INITIATE LAW
' FOR FAMILY SALOONS
The return of the saloon under rigid
restrictions will be the object of the!
Initiative Association, fifteen mem- (
bers of which met at Hotel Adams
last week in Phoenix. The meeting
was attended by former liquor deal
ers, chiefly from Phoenix, but repre-l
senting the saloons of a number of
counties. i
It is probable that the amendment
which the association will initiate as
a result of last Peek's conference will
provide for what is sometimes and in
some places called the "family saloon"
depots in the cities for the distribu
tion of liquors for consumption in the
home.
After some discussion the meeting
concluded to initiate such a measure,
but took no further action, such as
figuring on the exact provisions of
wording of the amendment. i
An important decision of the meet
ing, however, was taken when it was
decided not to support the amendment
after its initiation with any vigorous
campaign. There seemed to .be a
tendency to regard the Arizonian after
two years of drought as a matter for
close study rather than strong urging.
The liquor men apparently desire to
let nature take its course.
THE OLD VERDE RIVER
CLAIMS ANOTHER VICTIM
A man popularly known as Dutch
Louie was drowned in the Verde Mon
day night, while attempting to cross j
with his team. He had lived near
Clarkdale ever since the town has
been in existence. His real name is
unknown in this section, and he had
no known relatives; in fact little is
known about him except that he lived
the life of a hermit in his cabin across .
the river from Clarkdale, which it is '
presumed he was attempting to reach
when his fate overtook him.
It is generally believed he has a
sum of money hidden, but to datei
Sheriff Joe Cook has been unable to
locate it. Almost his only effects left
at His place of residence arc about,
seventy-five chickens. Jerome News. .
George Martini Resigns Position
George Martini resigned his posi-'
tion as superintendent of the A. L. & i
T. planing mill last Friday. Mr. Mar
tini has been with the company for)
the past twenty-two. years, steadily
without a skip and was one of the
oldest employees in the service at the
time he resigned. Mr. Martini has not
definitely made up his mind what he
will do, but will leave this week for
California to visit his family and may
later decido to locate their permanent
ly. Mr. Martini has many friends in
Flagstaff who will very much regret'
his leaving the city.
Daze Will Be Winslow Postmaster ,
Word was received Wednesday that '
Congressman Carl Hayden had re
commended Wm. Daze jr. for the
postmastcrship at Winslow. A long
drawn out fight for the place will
probably be thus settled as it up to
Congressman Hayden to designate the
man for the place. Mr. Daze is a
brother of our famous Joe Daze, the
Santa Fe cashier. '
DID PARENTS DO AWAY
WITH DEFORMED CHILD?
Whether the deformed infant of
Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Richmond came to
its death by natural causes or other
wise, is being investigated by the
Phoenix authorities. It is said that
the parents of the unfortunate child,
which was born with arms that ex
tended from the shoulder to the
elbows only, had asked the attending
nurse if she would not do something
to do away with it and later prayed
for its death when the nurse indig
nantly refused to consider the sug
gestion. Richmond said that he was in an
adjoining room and at about 11:30
o'clock his wife called him into the
room. The baby was dead. The child
was in bed with its mother and was
lying in such a position that the
weight of the mother rested on tho
child, with the exception of its head.
In reply to a query he refused to ex
press an opinion as to what caused the
death of the child.
NEW DISTRICT FORESTER
APPOINTED FOR DISTRICT
Announcement is made today at the
district headquarters of the forest
service of the transfer of District
Forester Arthur C. Ringland, effective
April 15. Mr. Ringland has been de
tailed to the organized public service
activities of the forest service along
the lines of the industrial departments
maintained by the various transcon
tinental railroads and for the time
being will establish headquarters at
San Francisco.
He will be succeeded by Paul Red
ington, transferred from California.
Mr. Redington was graduated from
Dartmouth college in 1902 and from
the Yale university forest school in
1904
He has been in the forest ser-!
vice since that time, stationed in var-
ious parts of the west Albuquerque
Journal.
LUMBER RATES ARE
UP FOR A HEARING
Commsisioner F. A. Jones, Rate Women will go mad if the ten
Clerk A. A. Betts and Secretary Wil- j sion is not relieved. No one for
liam Sapgster will represent the Ari
zona corporation commission at the
lumber hearing before an interstate
commerce commission examiner in
Los Angeles on March 20.
ine hearing is a result or a com
plaint filed by the McCormick Lumber
company, which operates mills in
Oregon, Washington and other coast
points, the McCormick firm alleging
that the rates prescribed by the Ari-
zona commission for lumber ship-
ments from northern Arizona mills to
southern Arizona points are discrim-
natory.
The Arizona commission is busvnrc-
paring data to present at the hearing Sun mce to Put us out' ! 0ne man is dead and another is in
showing that the rates are fair and T real truth ot the matter was the Mercy hospital suffering from
reasonable. The northern Arizona that our smelter foreman, Ot Jones, ' serious internal injuries which are ex
mills nt Williams, Flagstaff and The alns "Skinney" attempted to set fire pected to cause his death as a result
Oliffn nro iwrnnmlpntn ?n tm pnso.
while the Arizona commission is in
tervener. Phoenix Gazette.
OAT.MAN AMALGAMATED
GETTING IN SHAPE
"The Oatman Amalgamated is
gradually getting shaped up for ex-,
tensive operations on its property em-
bracing eight groups or 31 full or
fractional claims, aggregating 450.
acres. The management has started Jones in evidence as to me truiniui-
its main workings, or No. 1 shaft, on ness of the story; his mustaches were
the La Veta Verde claim and it will not cinged and, further, he asked
be sent down to a depth of 500 feet Chief See for a match to go on with
before any lateral work is undertaken, his combustibleness and complete his
A 40-hp. gasoline hoist and compres- distinction of The Sun and other old
sor have been ordered. It is expressed papers.
by the management that this equip-1
ment will reach the property and will i Plenty of Water at Lake Mary
be installed within the next 30 days. Al Sims, of Lake Mary fame, was
The shaft is going down on a vein in this week from his summer resort
which is on the surface and has a and is thoroughly convinced that there
width of CO feet and gives assays of will be plenty of water there this year
from 80 cts. to $2. It is announced , for all boating purposes. A flood of
that a second shaft will be started on from three to four feet is running
the Buster fraction in about 30 days, j through the spillway into Fisher Can-
Oatman News. yon. He believes that the high tide
. . . . . . n . ' of the flood from melting snows has
Oak Creek Raises Eight Feet been reached No damage hajJ been
Word was received by Supervisor fflr
Hart Saturday that Oak Creek had
raised eight feet in one day, caused
by the rapidly melting snows. No I Remember Second Tax Payment
damage had been done so far along ! According to the Statutes of Ari
the creek, but it put many of the local zona, the second installment of sfate
fording places out of commission for and county taxes became due on Mon
the time being. dav' March 7th, that being the first
Monday1 in the month and must be
Reading Room Entertainment ' paid before the first Monday in May,
Nathaniel Butler, professor of edu- 1916, when the second installment will
cation, will lecture on "Books for Busy become delinquent.
People" at the Emerson hall Monday ' According to the law passed by the
evening, March 20. This is one of the first Arizona legislature, the state and
Santa Fe Reading Room entertain- county taxes were made payable in
ments and comes with the best of two installments, the first to be paid
recommendations. Everybody is wcl- before the first Monday in November,
come to this lecture, which is on a when the tax rolls are delivered to
subject that appeals to every one. No the treasurer, while the second install
admission will be charged. ment becomes due in March.
A NOON HOUR LECTURE
ON "lOJNJEHRIT
A great opportunity is awaiting the
business men and citizens of Flagstaff
in the coming of Thomas Brooks
Fletcher, lecturer and newspaper edit
or, who is the last number on the N.
A. N. S. entertainment course.
Mr. Fletcher lectures at Emerson
hall, Saturday evening, March 25th;
his subject being "Martyrdom of
Fools." Mr. Fletcher writes that in
addition to the above, he desires to
address the school children, and busi
ness men and women of Flagstaff at
the noon hour on "Town Team Work."
The latter address is to be without
charge. This is a rather unusual of
fer, "free gratis," and Mr. Fletcher
states that his sole motive in doing so
is to help every community in which
he enters to better unity. All he asks
is that the women be included, and
that clerks of the city be invited. In
his talk he will discuss salesmanship,
business methods, scientific advertis-M
ing, community loyalty and patrio
tism, and try to inspire our people to
stand by their leaders, patronize their Jos. Amundsen formerly with the
home merchants, and organize for the Babbitt-Poison Co. at Williams and
purpose of building their community j Gus Jakle of this city are now in
bigger and better. charge of the new branches. It is
Don't forget the date, March 25th, probable they will make their head
at the noon hour at the Empress ' quarters at Kingman, the head-
theatre. Watch for further announce-
menU.
HALF THE TRUTH NOT
TOLD OF BORDER TROUBLE
Rev. E. D. Raley, superinten-
dent of Sunday schools for Ari-
zona and New Mexico in a friend-
Iy letter to Dr. Hambly of the
Federated church says the fol-
lowincr concerning the situation
at Columbus, N. M.: "I am on
my way from Columbus, New
( Mexico. Am stopping between
t trains in Phoenix. Little too
w u
much war there for me. The
situation down that way is awful.
! The papers don't irive half.
jj"5
200 miles along the boarder is
5 sleeping. Every fanner carries
his rifle,
.j.
,
v
Tried lo Eclipse The Sun
Some friend came along last Friday
morning just as The Sun was going
to Press and turned in a fire alarm,
designating The Sun office as the hot
P,ace- 0f tcn w have been told to go
tnere antl such JkC intimations con- j
ccrning the warmness of The Sun, but i
tni ,B really the first time the auto J
8(luirt wagon ever backed up to the1
to a copy ol 'lhe bun m the incinera-.
tor with a wet match. The editorial
columns refused to burn along with
the. locals and a quarreling smudge
came out of the top of , the incinerator
instead of out of the unergenerate i
chimney. "Skinney" .opened the rear
door to shovel out some of the smoke
when the fire whistle lied about him
ojid sent the chemical engine over to
put out the fire he had been energetic-
ally trying to start We offer Mr.4ment, two of them escaping without
CITY MAY BUY THE
LOCsLJEWER SYSTEM
Considerable discussion has taken
jlace by city councilmen over the pro
position of bonding the city for $75,
000 to purchase the sewer system and
using the surplus of the amount
bonded for the extension and improve
ment of the old system. The price
asked for the old Bystem by the com
pany owning it we have not heard, but
at a reasonable figure, it would be a
wise purchase by the city.
It would pay equally as well as the
water system and be under the control
of the people, aside from the benefits
that would be derived from a proper
drainage of the city. There is as
much need of the city owing the sewer
system as in owning the water sys
tem. We hope the plan to purchase
it may mature.
Babbitt Bros. Branch Out
Babbitt Bros, now own the Arizona
Stores Co., recently purchased in Mo
have county, located at Kingman,
Oatman, Yucca and Frisco,
I.
quarters for the other smaller branch
' stores.
--..--
BOLD MEXICAN THIEF
LOOTS MERCHANDISE CAR
Monday night a bold Mexican
looter broke into a boxcar loaded
merchandise for San Ber-
nardino and Rcdlands and with v
his partner had unloaded nearly !
a wagon load of merchandise
. . ..... .
inning all the way Irom corsets f
small rugs. It was the evident
intention to unload the whole car
as " werc tU1 busy when
Conductor Wood discovered them
and held one of them up with a
gun, until Deputy Sheriff Murray
arrived on the scene to take over
the prisoner. The other thief
made his escape while Wood had "5
his partner held up with a gun.
. .wit ! ...
v ine prisoner gave nis name as v
j Salvador Qucsada and looked like
he might be a remnant of Villa's
1 army or some of the class shippejd
in by the railroad for railroad v
work.
, The goods and prisoner arc now
at the county jail awaiting an
adjudication of the exploit.
... .,. ... ... ,:. .:. ... ... ... ,:. .:. ... ,:. .:. .:. .:. .:. .:.
Falling Wall of Court House at
Prescott Kills One Man
ot the south wall ot a vault in the oiu
' court house caving in and breaking
! through the floor and burying two
men. The dead man is Louis W.
. Schooler of Long Beach and the seri-
ously injured one is George Ball.
Physicians at the hospital stated last
night that there is little hope for the
recovery of Ball.
When the accident occurred there
were four men working in the base-
injury. Failure to hear the "look out
below" warning was the cause of the
accident
Company I Thoroughly Inspected
Captain Cromwell Stacey U. S. A.,
inspector-instructor for Arizona, was
in Flagstaff Friday inspecting the
equipment and arms of Company I
and was followed the following night
by Captain Oscar Temple of the ad
jutant generals office who made an
inspection of the company.
The equipment was favorably com
mented on by the regular army officer.
Captain Robison has the reputation of
having his arms and equipment in
first class condition at all times.
Building Boom Starts
W. P. Cooper, contractor, has a new
seven room bungalow on N. Agassiz
street partially completed and is now
putting on the roof. It is the first
new building of the spring. He in
tends living in the new building him
self. He has a couple other small
buildings under consideration on the
south side which will be built later on.
Turns the 80 Year Mark
Mr. Asa Clark, one of the pioneers
of this section, celebrated his 80th
birthday Monday and was congratu
lated by many visiting friends. Aside
from his eye sight, which he lost a
couple years ago, Mr. Clark is in very
good health and thoroughly enjoyed
the visit of his friends.
OPIE READ FAMOUS
AUTHOR APPRECIATED HERE
Opie Read, the famous author and
writer gave his inimatable lecture at
the Emerson school auditorium last
Monday evening to a large and ap
preciative audience. His theme of
knocking down the scarecrows of su
perstition and the hobgobblins of fear
were amply illustrated with amusing
stories that amply pointed the moral.
For years he has amused, .entertained
and educated a vast audience with his
enumerable good books and will
eventually go down in history closely
associated with Mark Twain, a most
loveable man and one who didn't want
anything especially for himself but
was in hopes his having tarried awhile
did some good to those who were in
need more than he was. He couldn't
help the humorous side, for we arc a
funny bunch of humans, juBt taking
us as we run, but underlying it all
there was much food for thought car
ried away by his hearers.
SCHOOL TRUSTEE FIGHT
GETS WARM AT WILLIAMS
After the action taken by the ma
jority of the school board, as given in
the minutes published in another co
lumn of this week's News, declaring
the office of Mrs. Andrew Miller as a
member of the board, vacant, and
after the appointment of W. D. Fin-
tney by County Superintendent, Miss
I Francis, to fill the position thus de
clared vacant, Mrs. Miller asked per
mission to file quo warranto proceed
ings against Mr. Finney, in the Supe
rior Court, and this permission was
granted.
The quo warranto proceedings ask
that Mr. Finney show by what author
ity he is exercising the power of a
member of the board of trustees of
the Williams schools. Williams
News.
F. L. M. LOGGING ENGINE
FALLS INTO LAKE MARY
The F. L. M. logging engine went
off the track last week Thursday and
turned over in nine feet of water. The
accident was caused by soft track
after the many winter floods. At last
accounts the lake was still raising
several inches a day.
The problem of getting it out is a
difficult one as it is impossible to take
the Santa Fe wrecker out over the
logging road and it was thought a
road will have to be built to it or let
it stay in the water until the lake
goes down enough to get at it
j "Old Ned" Greenlaw Dead
i "Old Ned" Greenlaw died last week
I at the age of 34 years. Old Ned was
i just a horse but he had been in the
t Greenlaw family for the past twenty-
( two years and was a reliable, faithful
oiu ammai. ininy-iour years is a
remarkable old age for the average
horse and his long service is deserv
ing of mention, more so than some
men we could mention. )
Brother Kills Brother at Winslow
A sad accident occurred at Winslow
last Saturday when a son of Frank
Ennis was accidently killed by a
younger brother. In some manner
the younger brother who had secured
a .22 rifle accidently discharged it,
shooting an older brother. They werc
both under ten years of age. The
wounded brother died w'ithin a few
hours after the accident.
Santa Fe All the Way Monday Night
It seemed to be Santa Fe all the
way Monday night around the Santa
Fe yards. Night Marshall Parsons
was called to arrest a couple men for
building a fire in an empty box car by
night Cashier Carter. This was set
tled when along came Conductor Pen
rods train and a boxcar was ditched
near the east block signal. 'It was too
dark to see just how this was done,
but a short time later Conductor Wood
run into two Mexicans looting a box
car of merchandise and held one of
them up until Deputy Sheriff Murray
gathered him in.
Kennerdall-Hazel Wedding
Cards received this week by friends
in Flagstaff announcing the wedding
of Mr. Richard Healy Kennerdall to
Miss Ada Emma Hazel at the home
of Robert C. Wente on March 6th at
Williams. Rev. Elliott W. Boone per
forming the ceremony in the presence
of a few friends. The bride is .a
native of Philadelphia and a former
teacher in the Williams school. Mr.
Kennerdall is a popular forest ranger
in the government service and has
been stationed near Williams for the
past six years. Both young people
are popular among the young people
at Williams.
PREPARtONESS NOT DEAD '
ISSUEJVEN LOCALLY
That the Mexican situation is se
rious no intelligent person can deny.
The Villa raid and murders at Colum
bus, New Mexico, has stirred the
whole Southwest whether it made a
very deep impression further east or
not
There is at least a strong deep feel
ing that American lives and property
is jeopardized all along the border
with the mere idea of entangling the
United States to help one side or the
other in their political revolutions.
Life, improvement and development of
country plays no part in the game.
Wrecking their own country under the
guise of "patriotism" for private gain
is about all the whole years of revolu
tion could be called.
It is a different country from ours.
Aside from the educated class, and
they seem to have absorbed a great
deal of the peon's ideas, it is only a
question of which fellow can catch the
other one and stand him up against
an adobe wall, then bravely shoot him.
Whatever magnanimous feeling that
may actuate the United States only
further convinces them that we are
afraid to fight The result is that
the more we feed them, the more we
temporize with them, the more con
tempt they have for America and
Americans. Carranza will promise to
take care of Villa, but he does not'
seem to have a general in his army
who actually wants to get within a
hundred miles of him, unless some one
else has got him hog-tied and blind
folded ready for a thousand or so
brave men to walk up quietly and
shoot him.
If the railroad shippings into this
country get an idea that war has been
declared, even though it may be only
a punitive foray into Mexico, who can
tell how many towns in Arizona, in
cluding Flagstaff, would be safe from
an ignorant band of natural born
looters? It has been strongly inti
mated that such a condition exists in
Flagstaff and every other town where
there is a population of that class.
We have no desire to be an alarm
ist, but what protection is there here
in case such a condition came about?
It is said that this class are now all
heavily armed and have been told
what to do by leaders.
We know what could be done if such
an outbreak was anticipated, but what
would be the result otherwise?
BRIEF NEWS OF THE
MEXICAN SITUATION
It is expected that all border towns
will be put under martial law as soon
as it is known that American troops
have entered Mexico.
Carranza has agreed to allow the
punitive expedition to go into Mexico
and President Wilson has given Mexi
can soldiers the same privilege on
American soil when American soldiers
are not sufficient at point of trouble
to handle the situation. Whether the
individual Mexican will agree to this
and abide by it it is a question.
At Nogales, Bisbce, Douglas and
other points Mexicans have been
searched for arms and ammunition.
It should be done in any town where
there is any number of old Mexico
Mexicans. Too many threats have
been made and it is best to be on the
safe side.
' A Mexican paper published at Du
rango says that President Wilson has
made his escape and is now in Canada
while Villa troops have taken
Texas and New Mexico. This is the
variety of stuff that is being peddled
about among the ignorant lower class
and is intended to mislead them again
into trouble.
Armories of the National Guard
over the state are being guarded, am
munition and guns are prohibited
from being sold in many towns
throughout the three states of Texas,
New Mexico and Arizona.
i Water and light plants are being
guarded in most places including the
Roosevelt dam.
i
Conductor Johnson's Train
; "Wants to Go Crosslots
A derailment of a batch of ten box
cars in Conductor Johnson's train late
Tuesday night, near Riordan brought
, the wrecking crew Wednesday morn
ing, also Trainmaster Duffield who is
always Johnny-on-the-spot wherever
trouble turns up. The west bound
trainfi were compelled to switch over
onto the east bound track to avoid the
scatterment for a few hours. Ten
1 cars were off the track.
- .
;A' immm0'mmmmmmmmm
immmammimmmmimlim'm'i
IWP
wtMnqn
3$mmmMmmT.
j y
mwmmu,&f
4
