BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELL017.
Volume 2
Houston, Miss., March 17, 191G.
rv
Number 13
OUR MOTTO
-w-
M U LV 1 iVl 1 v
r
Houston Locals.
See Caruthers at School Auditor
ium to-night nuil Saturday night.
Roy Mosley has just returned to
his home at Montpelier, having been
to St loiiis (o buy a tine .lack for
his farm
Emmet Johnson of Greenwood is
I lie guest of his uncle. .1 E Jolinso:
this week.
Miss Mary Emma Roane is swnd-
ing this week with homefolks.
I)r Ed Young of Vardaman was
a business visitor here luesday.
While here he purchased a new
niod.il Chevolet anto from the
llonston Hardware Co.
rOR RENT CHEAP A fine
pi've of land near Town of Houlka,
see Mrs M E Moore.
Do you want Houston to be a
better place to live? Then help add
one pleasant and leautifiil recrea
tion and amusement plat of ground
by your liberal contribution when
the committee for improvement of
our school grounds calls on you.
Miss Janet Dendy pleasantly en
tertained a number of friends Sat
. urday night in honor of her friend.
Miss Springer.
After several days pleasant visit
with home-folks, Bertram Hill re
turned to his college work Tuesday.
1 Mrs Ella Winter's many friends
will be sorry to note that she is on
'the sick list.
Miss Janet Dendy spent the
weekend at home returning to Par-
kersburg Sunday afternoon.
Mr and Mrs D L, Davi, Misses
Ridd and Russeil made a pleasant
moter run over to OKolona and
back Tuesday afternoon.
Miss Georgie Lewis of Pittsboro
was bru.;ht to the hospital Thurs
day for an operation. She was ac
compant.d by her parents, Mr and
Mrs Lewis and Mr and Mrs Mar
shall, i will ue at tlouika next Tuesday
afternoon to buy hogs, anyone hav
ing any to dispose of please call
Loard Drug Co. and tell me what
have a1 (J 1 will be gl id to come and
see them. A D Harrington.
Miss Winnie Ininon accompanied
by her father, Mr R L Inmon, came
up from Vardaman Sunday morn
ing visited at the hospital awhile and
had Dr Philpot inspect and note
the progress in the healing of Miss
Inmon 's efflcted leg, then they went
out to W A Dendy, and spent the
day. It will be remembered that
Miss Inmon came to Houstou hos
pital, as a patient, in March 1915,
where she remained several months
receiving the best of treatment and
tendered caie, and though she still
goes on critches, there is hope of
ultimate cure, and Miss Winnie is
one oft Vise brightlv cheerful and
hopeful afflicted ones who always
bok on the sunnyside of hie and
make us feel the world is better for
their Iivirg in it.
Mr Em neit D Smith, who has
been the guest of his parents for
several days left Thursday for his
home at Gulfport. Emmett hs
made good io the world of business
and is now rated a very well to do
man Hmni4 the hustling people of
that famous southern city. He is
g ling back to r mnd up his cam
paign for Mavor and it is said that
his change for winning that high
position in Gulfport is good. We are
alwa s proud of the boys who go
away an I make ko l in the great
came of business and Emmett is
one of tbe many who has risen to
po'er and hn; pinei-s by strung de
terminati.l and the GET THERE
spirit of NtVER-SAY-DIE. Luck to
you oil' pal may your voles num
ber as the ! in is of the sea
Special Notice
The Parent-Teacher Asso iation
is promoting the laudable work of
improving our school grounds. The
plan is to grade and terrace this
rugged hill to put it in landscape
gardening form, then set it to quick
growing trees, shrubs and flowers
till it shall be transformed into a
beauty-knoll that will gladden the
ee. Lawn seats, swings, tennis
court, ball ground ai d tand piles
with shovels nd buckets for the
wee tots will invite the weary to
rest and offer sport to the athelete.
In short it is proposed to convert
this bald old 1 ill ii to a play-place
for the children and a lecrealion
park for the voting people and the
older oi es too.
Through the school session such
a play ground would be of inesti
mable value to the children and
everpbody in the city could enjoy
the pleasures of such a park irom
the first turning Spring days till
the Autum. i glori a h id sped.
Our city has no park and civic
pride should urge each and every
one to make a success 'of this un
dertaking. It can easily be done if
we are awake to actual need of
such a play ground for the children
and the pleasure possible to the
grownups in such a recreation park
as this would be.
We earnestly plead ih.it every
body w.ll make this personal ambi
tion and pride and give as liberally
as possible and thus help material
ize this dream-spot of beauty,
health and pleasure.
Mr Archie Hobson Dead
Tuesday morning at 8 o'clock the
! soul of Mr Archie Hobson passed
into the Great Beyond For several
weeks he has suffered from compli
cated troubles and pneumonia at
last sent him over the river to rest
under the shade of the trees.
Mr Hobson was a member of the
Piesbyterion church and had al
ways lived a true and loyal Christ
ian man, faithful to bis family and
friends .He always looked on the
hright side of life and was an un
ending round of happiness and
pleasure to his friends.
He was a valiant Confederate
soldier serving the whole four
years wilh honoi to himself
and his beloved Southland.
Wednesday afternoon his body
was buried in the old Friendship
cemetery by the side of the faithful
wife who had gone hefore. Rev
Moses couducted the funeral ser
services. The Hummer sincerely
olTees sympathy to the bereaved
family.
NOTICE.
I have instruction from f kolona
Oil Co., to collect all gin accounts
due them and ask all who are en
debted to them for ginning to call
on me at once and settle same".
You find me at W E Hubbard Shop
W A Grissom.
Mr T O Lester. Houlka, Route 3,
was in Houston last Saturday on
business. He paid The Hummer
boys a very pleasant call while in
town.
Mr L B Bavs of Woodland was
j mingling with friends here Monday.
Mr John M Walker stient Thurs
day in Okolona.
1 There will be services at the
Christian church Sunday night and
Monday night
, Mrs Eric Se iberry of Okolona is
the gtirst of her parent, Mr and Mrs
Bradford this week.
Mrs W L Mill returned Thursday
from Meridian where she has been
the guest of her mother for several
das
AN OPE H LETTER
To the Officers and Citizens of Houston and s
Chickasaw County.
MY FELLOW CITIZENS:
The
j addressing you is the shameful and unprecedented out-
j burst of unlawlessuess upon the streets of Houston on last
; Saturday night, when the very atmosphere was surcharged
l with the fumes of drunkedness and the very walls of the
j temple of justice reverberated with shouts of disorder and
! vile profanity: when the brandishing of knives and threats
jof bloodshed made the very blood of law abiding citizens
'fairly run cold: when business was suspended and
the life of every man on the streetswas in imminent danger!
I i a. ipt al to you because you have the power to stop
this heathenish lawlessness and because yon are the only
source to which we can appeal for protection:
Some interpret the preacher's only message to be
"My dear brethern, sisters and friends," and that should
have have never a word to say about the evils that destroy
his people, but the prophets nd preachers of the Bible
divert so understand it, No man ever denounced sin in
more scathing terms than did our Christ, and "If we
have not the spirit of Christ we are none of his."
0, my people, the only salvation for our homes, our
churches, and sinful men, is to preach div ne law unspar
ingly, protect, honor and execute our common laws at
whatever cost, for their principles are founded upon God's
laws.
King Solomon in speaking on law enforcement said,
" Because sentence is not executed speedily, therefore the
heart of the Sons of Man is fully set in them to do evil."
Ecel. 8:11.
MEANING AND DESIGN OF LAW
Law is divine in origin and design, and is missionary in its work and
results. Law is God speaking fact- . face with his people and making
known his will to bis children.
Lav is an impenetrable, insurmountable wall between right and
wrong, between good and evil. Law is the preacher's message to a sin
cur.-ed world.
Law is for the protection of the goo 1 and suppression of the bad.
"Law is not made .or the rigiitemic man, but for the unruly, for the un
godly an 1 sinners, for trie uu.i ly ani profane, for murderers of fathers
and mothers, for manslayers." 1, Tim. 1:9.
Good men keep the law because it is right. Bad men refrain from
violation only from fear of punishment,
Good men obey tbe law only in their hearts. Dent. 11:18, Ps. 37:31
Bad men obey the law only in letter; Law abidding men live in
good conscience, but 'Ihe wicked fleeth when no man pursueth."
Divine law, every precept and example in the scriptures, and every
law upon oiir common statutes condemn lawlessness and assess penalty
upon violations ot the law. The Mosaic law: "Thou shalt give life for
life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burning for
burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe." Ex. 21:2325.
Our laws are the same in spirit. The spiritual law fixes spiritual
penalty In the day thou ea eth thereof thou shalt surely die" But
know them that for all these things God will bring thee unto judgment"
Oh! for a Johnathan Edwards to thunder that wonderful sermon,
'The sinner in the Hands of an Angry God " from every pulpit
EFFCTS OF SUSPENDED JUSTICE.
1. It lessons fuar of immediate punishment and encourages temp
tation to violation.
God said: "Thou shalt have no other gods before me," yet men
have worshipped "grave images," stocks and bonds, the almighty uollar
and the "gods of this world" for all these centuries. God said "Thou
shalt not take tin: name of the Lird thy Gi in vain," 'Thou shalt not
kill," "Thou shalt not steal," but men continue to profene God's name, to
kill and to steal. Why? Because they abuse God's love and f riiearance,
"Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily"
S.eond. Failure t 'execute sentence speedily' annuls the power
and prevents the design of the law.
I ..i.i ki, t, nufur tiir lit in itutlf I if ioikI o hrwithuI mtji it
f by true patriotism.' Men must put their own red Anglo Saxon blood into
: the dead written law before it can declare equity. The people with
1 patriotic hearts are the law, and not the costly volumns in countless
' libraries. You may fill your $100,000, courthouse with law books and
jyour streets with officers, but your town will be infested witn drunkards
profane swearers, gamblers and murderers unless "sentence against an
i evil work is executed."
Why so many old offenders iu our town and county? "Because
sentence was not executed." or if they were convicted, many had only,
, light fines plat:ed on them.
If a jail sentence was passed some of you men were the first to go
on their bond and they were turned loose ou. the town, thus justice is
commercialized and honor, v inure and life are jeopardised. Why so
, many new offender multiplying each day? Because the old ones were
not properly dealt with "and the heart of the sons of men is set in them
to do evil." .
What is dead law in the hands of lifeless officials? When violation
goes unpunished then law becomes a farce. Many of your officials are
christian gentlemen and want to do the right thing: but some of them
tell me they haven't the endorsement and co-operation of the citizenship.
The honest, efficient officer and lawyer are an honor to God and man-
i
immediate occasion for my
HIGH SCHOOL MEET
AT A 8c M APRIL 22
Since the great enthusiasm arous-'
ed by High Scho.,1 meets came in
to importance few years ago the
different schools of the state have
competed for prizes in every line of
study and athletics kniwn to their
system of training. It is good too, !
that these activities prevail, for it
inspires the school boy and girl to
greater efforts along the biautiful
highway of education, and also pro
vides the huma interest that al
ways makes lifo delightful worth
the living.
So after repeated calls from High
Schools the A &. M College has de
cided to put. on a meet next April
22. It will be a great rally for pre
parations are now under way to
make it the best ever held in Missis
sippi. All the high selols are in
vited to send representatives and
to try to be there Friday night be
fore the rally begins early Saturday
morning. The college will entertain
all the visitors from the schools
and try to make them comfortable
and pleased with the rally in every
way. Prizes will be given by the
college for various contests in high
school studies and athletics.
This rally will not be connected
with the annual meet at University
'of Mississippi. It is mostly for
! schools nearer that part of the state
or for those who desire to enter.
I The officials at A &. M desire in no
! way to interfere with the U of M
i annual rally.
But the officer who "runs with the hare and plays with the hound," pand
ers to vice and winks at lawlessness, goes as deep in the mud as the
devil in the mire, and the lawyer who manes a practice of defending
known blind tigers, boot leggers, black legged gamblers iishonor God and
is a disgrace to humanity and should be dismissed from the bar.
Shall public druiikednesses and profanity be permitted to go un
punished? Shall sin and immorality continue to hold high caniival on
the front streets of your town
1 declare unto you ui fmio.v citizens, no one is safe under such
conditions! Our homes, honor, virtue and life of one pure innocent
woman or the life of one g.i.id citizen is w rt(i m ri th 111 all the drunken
cocaine fiends that infest our town. I modestly suggest that if our offi
cers are not doing their duty, turn them out and get some that will. Im
peach every officer who plays cards, shoots craps, or gets drunk. Clear
your town of vagrants, lawbreakers, drunkards, whiskey and cocaine
venders, houses of illfame and immoral characters. Stand by your offi
cers and help them execute the law. Prosecute all offenders alike, with
favoritism to no:.e. Enforce the law.
Then will our town, our homes, our wives ai:d children, and the
strangers within our gates be comparatively safe and the stigma Mil
lungs over historic Houston will be taken away. The awful tragedies
within the past few years and the present conditions that prevail call for
true patrotism and immediate action. Oh! my beloved fellow citizens.
'Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Chirst shall give
thee light.
Do the right thing and do it at once. Dan't wait for another tradedy.
G. W. RILEY.
2-
IT'S FOR YOU
TO DECIDE
Whom you shall consult about Eye Troubles!
Remember that for 14 years I have been in daily
practice as a Specialist in Expert Exeininatious
and testing of the Eyes and the fitting of correct
Glasses for the Relief of Eve Strain.
EYE STRAIN- - -HEADACHES !
Eyestrain is the cause of 85 per cent, of the
Headaches. Why suffer frun these ncrve-ralii.m
pains when relief may be had with properly tit
ted glasses. This is worth your attention Early
investigation mav save you days of .suffering. I
oiler you the best in optical service.
ASTICMAT1SM is line uf tlie chcif eausi'S of head
aches. Spwiiilly Krumid U-iisks quii kly afT.irrf relief fur
this very cnmnion disorder.
Thousands of Cases Have Been Successfully Fit
ted by Me.
I give special attention to the testing and ex
amination of School Children's Eyes. And re
member that sometimes children have bad eyes
just as they have bad teeth and other troubles.
Children examined free if accompanied by parent.
BYRON MITCHELL, Optometrist
HOUSTON HOTEL, MONDAY
MARCH 20.
ONE DAY ONLY
P. S. No house to house calls made- Regu
lar monthly trips made here
P O Box 4o:l MEMPHIS. TI.NN
COUNTY TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION
The County Teachers Association
met in the Houston Hi(,h School
Building Saturday February 2.1th
The attendance was exceptionally
good and the day was davoied ex
clusively to discussion and arrange
ment for county Field Day. Some
additions were made to the rules. ,
as follows;
Contests in literary exercises
must enter their names with Supi.
Riley by April the 1st.
Contestants in athletics should
notify Prof D L Weldon, Buen i
Vista, by April the 1st.
Winners in former literary and
athletic contests are barred.
Contests in tennis, standing high
jump, and half hamer jump were
added.
Tug of war and basket ball were
dropped this year.
Contests in English Grammer.
Arithmetic and U S History were
added, but each school must be re
presented by only one contestant in
these subjects. Seperate examina
tions will be given in these subjects
to contestants from the one and two
teacher schools, and to contestants
from other schools. These exami
nations will be based on the adopt
ed books.
! !
f 1
I !
