Hkjw pjjVj !3j]|'{S O 4 ' * * JHT St S
H 77T1 \V vjr ((
KI.KVKNTH YEAH. N0.33
\ FA llt ASSURER.
I There were not a great many per
sons present at the meeting held in
Odd Fellows hall Saturday afternoon
(.» take up, discuss and reach some
concrete plan for holding a district
fair in Oroville next fall, but every in-
Bividual present was in serious earn
est, they represented neighboring pre
cincts, or organized bodies, and by
[heir marked interest in the proceed
iigs gave evidence that they were in
Icarty accord with the proposition. It
k safe to say that out of that meeting
las started a movement that will not
In Iy lead up to a cracking good fair
|e\t fall, but it was the initiative step
■iwaril a permanent organization to
■and behind a repetition of the fair
K'cm year to year.
I Tims. O’Neill was selected as the
■airman of the meeting, and .1. A.
fcackler, set retary. Mr. O’Neill, who
las a marvelous faculty for awakening
I co-operative spirit among farmers
kd townsmen, succlnt tly and force
■lly explained the purpose of the
■eeting, and dwelt upon the great
Bneflts to the county, outside as well
k within the town limits, that would
knw out of a district fair, lie called
■r expressions of opinion from those
Besent, A number responded, and ev
iy response was a strong endorsement
K the proposition as presented by the
■airman.
■la order in reach definite action, and
I expedite organisation, C, W. Smith
■sen ted tin- following resolution,
■tic li was unanimously adopted by a
Bailing vote;
■Resolved, that tin' chairman ap-
Bjm an executive committee repre-
Buiug the various departments of the
Hr. This committee to determine the
Bi hod nf organization, draw up a con-
Btmien and by-laws, prepare a pro-
B< for tiic fair, suggest permanent
Hicers and have the power to call a
Hciing at which the permanent or
■tizatiou shall lie effected. The com
■ to have the power to increase
■ membership and call in advisors.’
compliance with this resolution,
chair appointed the following nam
a|Hg':uili us beads of the several
meats;
\V Smith, general supervisor.
C. Fisher, mining.
A. McGlnly and (icorge Whistler.
||H. McCammon, floriculture.
S. Klee, poultry.
I. Cole, cattle.
Woodard, horses.
.1. Wickersham, racing.
Peterson, seed.
W. London, M. K. Ifowen, Geo.
and Win. I'ormedy. agricul-
N. O'Neill, machinery.
A. E. McMahan, Mrs. Amel
Mrs. ('. C. Hedger and Mrs,
iionil, domestic science.
|B’. Leonard Davis, sports and ath-
I^K's.
11. Felmey and K, IS. Nance, school
i^nlrcn.
S. Lewis, swine.
Conkle, sheep.
meeting adjourned subject to a
from the committee.
SSR
M MAStJIEKADE HALL.
may have been simply an over
mi (Im part of tlm band boys lust
bin ibis office was not put along
of the fact lbat the baud was to
a mask ball on the evening of
aHl’atriik's day, Friday, March 17,
mu being a mind reader the com
event failed to secure mention in
JHt week's issue. This is a pretty
hour to give the masquerade pub
iHly through the columns of tlie press
He' announcement may reach some
are not aware of the big bunch of
in store for the public this even-
The mask ball will take place at
Orpheum. and tis social affairs of
character are always an attraction
*^^Hhnt h the active participants and the
m Hr lookers-on a very large crowd
he expected. As the dance is given
the benefit of the band every citi-
of the town should contribute Ills
toward the good cause.
I In' county tins secured the services
it competent horticultural inspector
the person of Stanley J. Nagley,
one headquarters are at Okanogan,
il whose duty it will be to keep an
■ on the orchards of that part of the
inly north of the county seat and re
tail to all calls for his services. Mr.
gley was in Oroville Tuesday in the
e of his duty and while here inspect
a number of fruit trees in the vi
ity. Taking into consideration the
tidily increasing importance of the
chard industry of this county, an in
ector becomes absolutely necessary
guard against the various pests that
e orchadist has to contend against,
r. Nagh y goes on the job highly rec
unended and through his vigilence,
th the cooperation of orchardists,
e county should be well protected
ainst the villainous insects that
ake trouble for fruit growers.
TO OKAAOGAA UOUATY BTOUKMEA
Every man in Okanogan county who
breeds and sells cattle or horses, re
gardless of how small the number, is
cordially invited to meet in Okanogan,
Thursday, April 6, for the purpose of
organizing a County Live Stock Asso
ciation.
This meeting was originally sched
uled for January 14. but owing to the
severe weather conditions was post
poned until such time ns the roads be
came passable.
There are nine cattle and horse asso
ciations in Okanogan county, compris
ed of men who use the Okanogan and
Colville national forest ranges. In ad
dition to these there are scores of men
who use other ranges who have to a
man signified their to be
present at this great gathering and
assist in launching the largest county
slock organization ever known in the
Pacific Northwest.
Some of the most practical and best
posted men on breeding, handling, buy
ing, selling, diseases and treatment of
livestock in Oregon and Washington
are expected to be present and address
the assemblage.
Y’ou should arrange to come on the
sth (Good Roads Day) as the meeting
will begin early on the morning of the
6th and last all day.
Bring your wife. It you haven’t a
wife, bring your friend’s wife sister.
A’ou’ll be sorry if you don't as on the
night of the sth there is going to be
the biggest and best dance ever pulled
off in Okanogan.
The Civic League of Okanogan is al
so preparing to handsomely entertain
all visiting ladies.
On the evening of the 6th a combined
good roads, stockmen and irrigation
smoker begins at 7:30 prompt. This en
tertainment will be featured by grid
iron stunts, special music, etc. After
tlie smoker the Commercial club of
Okanogan will tender the visitors a
lunch (a la cafeteria) consisting of
weinles, sandwiches, pickles, cheese,
coffee. Okanogan apples, cider, etc.,
etc.
Every stockman in the county should
be present at this meeting, as It will
bj the greatest day in the live stock
history of the county.
L. E. Me DAN'I ELS
.1. A. HUGHES.
-
rorxriL imum eeihxjs.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Oroville, Wash. March 13,
iy ib.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilman
Beale, Smith and Bartell.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read.
Mr. Hamisch appeared before the
council asking permission to construct
an approach to his warehouse across
the sidewalk in front of his place on
Lot No. 6, Block No. 55, On motion the
permission was granted.
W. J. Hoskyn then asked permission
to cut out a piece of the curb at the
rear door of his garage on Lot No. 5.
Block No. 30, for the purpose of mak
ing an approach across the sidewalk.
After some discussion motion was
made and carried that permission be
granted to build an approach over the
curb and none of the curb be cut out
on account of drainage.
Frank Bartell then asked that the
water main be extended to his property
on Lot No. 7, Block No. 55, agreeing to
pay water rent in advance to the
amount of the cost of such extension.
On motion the request was granted and
the main ordred laid.
A petition of B. N. Grubb asking for
permission to lay a sewer pipe along
certain streets and alleys from his
hotel to the river was read and after
some changes, motion was made by
Councilman Beale, seconded by Coun
cilman Bartell that the permission be
granted. Motion carried.
Dr. House asked that another street
light be placed on Fourth street, be
tween Sutton and Radbourn streets.
On motion this matter was referred to
the light committee.
At tlie request of the mayor the
council was asked to meet Tuesday
afternoon for the purpose of looking
over the streets in view of repairing
places that need it.
The clerk was instructed to notify
Mr. Devon that the drinking fountain
would be turned on soon and for him
to take the necessary steps to prevent
the overflow from same from running
on his property as it did last year, re
sulting in the shutting off of the water.
A price of ten dollars was placed on
the sale of the old fire bell at the, re
quest of the school board who wish to
purchase one of them.
On motion the following bills were
allowed and ordered paid; W. Allen,
labor ■on water works. $26.27; F, .1. Ry
an, removing dead horse, 2.00; John
Payne, blacksmithing, 2.25. On motion
council adjourned.
E. R. MOOSE, Clerk.
The Civic League will serve supper In
the library building for the masquerade
dance that takes place this evening.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, MARCH 17, 1916
A S( 11001, TO HE I’ROl'D OK.
One of the most useful and bene
ficial features of the high school cur
riculum is to be found in the domes
tic science room. The Oroville high
school is very completely equipped In
this department, us the trustees recog
nized its great Importance and spared
no expense in titling up and furnish
ing a large, well-lighted and conven
iently located room in the building for
this special purpose. The board was
also fortunate in securing the present
presiding genus of this branch of in
struction in t lie person of the teacher,
Miss Pauline Davis, who is eminently
fitted by training to impart that useful
knowledge that enters into and is a
part of Hie economy of every household
presided over by fair woman. In the
very nature of such a department pro
vision can be made for only a limited
number of pupils, and to the credit of
the young womanhood of the high
school it can lie said that the class has
always been helled to its capacity.
Moreover, those who have taken in
structions under Miss Davis have
profited thereby, and bid fair to be
come famous artists in preparing those
eatables that enter into family con
sumption. Aside from the drudgery of
the kitchen these students are taught,
and are apt scholars in the gracious art
oi: entertaining. And we know whereof
we speak.
Recently luncheons prepared by the
domestic science class have been serv
ed to invited guests, two of the young
lady members of the class acting as
hostesses on each occasion. This is
practical instruction in preparing,
serving and entertaining, which rounds
out the household duties that some day
will develop upon these young ladies.
On the occasion when we had the
pleasure of partaking of the viands
prepared by this class in cookery the
table was laid in the gymnasium, and
was very tastefully decorated and ar
ranged. A dozen guests sat down to
the meal. Mis Dora Cole and Miss
Elizabeth Murray were the hostesses,
and they performed their part with
ease, grace and dignity. Miss Loraine
Bartell and Miss Pauline Bair served
the guests, and the most perfectly
drilled maids could have done no bet
ter. The luncheon was simply delicious
and the service and quality could not
have been liny roved upon. As an in
sight to tlie capability of the young
cooks and entertainers, and the effi
ciency of the Institution in instructing
beyond hook knowledge, the experience
was a pleasant revelation, and streng
thened. if that were possible, our pride
and interest in the Orovillc public
school.
T. I). Homes, of Grand Forks, North
Dakota, spent several days in Oro
ville during the past week, and as a
result of his visit lUO acres under the
new ditch will be broken out and put
into alfalfa, and that will help some
toward placing erstwhile barren val
ley lands in a state of productiveness.
Mr. Holmes is interested with others
in what is known as the Birkholtz
tracts, embracing some 400 acres, lo
cated a few miles south of Oroville, all
under the irrigation system and as
choice land as any in IHe valley. It is
the purpose to put alternate 40 acre
tracts in alfalfa at this time, and even
tually cultivate the entire tract. J.
A. Blackler will have the agency for
this large acreage.
Mrs. Helen Dunlap, wife of Thomas
Dunlap, one of the early settlers of the
Chesaw neighborhood, died at St. Jo
seph's hospital last Wednesday night.
Mrs. Dunlap was afflicted with drop
sy, and was brought *o Oroville Tues
day evening of last week. She stood
tlie trip well, and Wednesday seemed
better than she had been for some
weeks. Wednesday evening as the
nurse was with her and had responded
to some request made by the patient,
the sick woman turned upon her side
and suddenly passed away. Tlie re
mains were taken in charge by Under
taken Barnes, prepared for burial and
shipped to Chesaw, where Hie funeral
took place Saturday. The deceased was
aged til years, 11 months and 6 dys. A
liusbnd and live children are left to
mourn her loss.
Joe Hunter, that old tin;e Civil war
veteren who has been spending the
winter at Night hawk, had his hand al
most pumped off by his old friends
around town Thursday. Joe is a great
Josher. He recently received a hand
some badge from Washington, an in
signa of membership in the National
Defense league. In the days that tried
men's souls Mr. Hunter was a member
of the celebrated New York fire zou
aves. and was with that organization
at the battle of Bull Run, when the
northern boys took the wrong end of
the decision. Joe says that the badge
was presented to him for the speed he
displayed putting distance behind him
seeking peace and comfort as far away
from the Bull Run battlefield as it was
possible for him to get in the limited
time he had to use his legs.
AX ACTUALITY.
Tlie Installation of an Irrigation
system in the northern part of the
Okanogan valley is no longer a prom
ise, It is a reality. The ditches and
Humes are so near completion at this
writing that water can and will be
turned on in ample time to supply the
necessary moisture for this year’s
crop. The realization of this great un
dertaking, after years of heart break
ing delays, is a matter of congratula
tion. The turning on of water will
mark the dawn of a new era for nor
thern Okanogan county. All that is
hoped tor from this great expenditure
of time, energy and money may not be
attain as it were in the twinkling of
an eye, but the happy transformation
will come as surely as the evolution of
time. Already the attention of many
desirous of securing homes under fav
orable conditions has been attracted
to this locality, and knowledge of op
portunities here presented will grad
ually be extended until all who can
be accommodated will find their way to
this district. The process of filling up
and improving the vacant lands under
the ditch may be slow at first, as was
natural to be expected, but that process
will continue without halt or inter
mission until the valley is thickly set
tled with a prosperous and contented
population, and intensive cultivation
force the land to the highest state of
productiveness. This has come about
in other irrigation districts far less
favorably located, far less fertile than
the one bovering the choicest portions
of the Okanogan valley.
This may be looked upon as an opti
mistic view of the situation, yet when
the settlement and development of
other irrigation districts are taken in
to consideration this prediction is
based upon logical deductions. Rarely
has irrigation been introduced in a
country holding out greater induce
ments to the homeseeker than right
here in the Okanogan valley, where
the combination of cheap land, respon
sive soil, climate, accessibility, trans
portation, religious and educational
facilities and delightful topographical
sin roufidrogs cannot be surpassed.
During the late rigorous winter the
cold was less severe and the snowfall
far lighter within the territory em
braced in the West Okanogan Valley
Irrigation district than any other part
of the northwest, or the entire country
for that matter. As to climatic advan
tages this test answers all arguments.
The fertility of the soli, stimulated by
water, has been demonstrated beyond
all possibility of a doubt. Under irriga
tion there is not a more productive
land under the sun. Transportation is
provided by railroads east, west and
south, and the presence of the rail
roads answers the question of accessi
bility. At Tonasket, at the south end
of the district, and at Orovllle, in the
very midst of this wondrous land of
plenty, wi'l be found the features per
taining to religious, educational and
social advantages. As to attractiveness
of topographical surroundings, with its
lake, and rivers, and mountains, and
lovely stretch of valley there is noth
ing on the map of Washington that can
excel this particular spot.
These are the attractions held out
to the man who seeks a home in this
comparatively new country, a country
that presents promise of betterment
for every man willing to put his shoul
der to the wheel and take from nature
that reward that comes to honest and
intelligent effort. Under an azure sky;
in a clime where the heat of summer
is tempered by nights of rejuvinating
coolness; where the frosts of winter
are no more severe than to stimulate
the blood; where you scratch the earth
with a plow and the soil responds with
a wealth of fruitage; where the com
bination of sunshine and water in
sures a never failing crop; where you
can worship along the religious lines
your conscience dictates; where your
children can have the advantages of
of excellent educational facilities;
where railroad systems place you in
touch with the markets of the coun
try; where you can come in contact
and associate with order and peace
loving manly men and womenly
women: where the chances of success
in every avenue of life are manifold,
dependent alone on your own energy
and initiative, the West Okanogan Val
ley irrigation district holds out attrac
tions that should appeal to the worthy
home seeker and which cannot be sur
passed anywhere in this broad land.
TTRM OUT, FARMERS!
C. W. Heideman, seed specialist and
inspector, will lecture in Oroville, at
Odd Fellows hall on Saturday, March
18th at 2 p. in. All land owners should
be interested in what he ha sto say on
seed production and its returns. Every
body invited.
North Okanogan Seed Growers Assn.
The basket ball team gave a receptlot
at the school house Wednesday evening to
ITof. Leonard Davis w’ho has acted as
coach and manager of the team during
the season.
MILL DO EXTENSIVE WORK.
Walter Bush, Baron Herr Broach
and his son Phil Deßresch, of St.
Louis, arrived in Oroville Thursday
last, and Saturday continued on to the
Golden Zone mine, a property in which
they are heavily interested and where
they will spend the summer. Pushing
and energetic gentlemen are they, and
their presence here is for the purpose
of finally demonstrating the true value
of the Golden Zone. It is their inten
tion to let a contract for 900 feet of
tunnel work, and that extent of devel
opment should thoroughly open up the
property. The Golden Zone is one of
the old time holdings on the north
slope of Mount Chopaka, and much ex
ploration work has been carried on in
past years. The property is equipped
with modern machinery and a treat
ment plant. Some excellent ore has
been encountered in the underground
prospecting so far carried on, and it
is the firm opinion of disinterested
mining men who have seen the claims,
that the Zone is one of the best pros
pective mines in the upper country.
The property is situated very conven
iently for transportation, being only a
short distance from the railroad. Be
fore the close of 1916 the Zone should
be a steady producer, and should that
fortunate end be reached it would give
mining a great impetus in this upper
country.
RURAL ROUTE AO. 2.
H. H. Granger and E. Truax, who
are very much interested in the estab
lishment of rural free delivery route
No. 2, which extends from Oroville to
Eilisforde, the mail carrier going down
the river on the west side, croslng at
the Eilisforde orchards, and returning
to Oroville on the east side of the
river have been exerting themselves
this week to secure the required num
ber of patrons, which is fixed by the
department at 75, and one of the means
taken to reach those intersted, or
who should be interested, is the mail
ing of postal cards to all those living
in touch with the proposed route. It
is necessary that- those desirous of
taking advantage of this convenience,
act promptly. Boxes should be secured
and put in place as near the first of
April as possible, as the postmaster
is required to report to the depart
ment by the 22nd of April that all re
quirements have been complied with.
People living within a mile and a half
of the route are eligible to receive mail
by that service. Every resident of the
valley and foothills within reach of
this service should be sufficiently in
terested to act promptly, and by
promptness make the establishment of
the route possible.
IMAM) ItMTI'AI,
Mrs. C. 0. Hedge’r musical class will
give a piano recital in the library
building next Thursday evening,
March 2li, There will be no charge for
admittance and everybody is invited
to attend. The following is the
PROGRAM
(Part One)
1 Scarf Dance Chamlnade
Hazel Mallory
2 On, On Away Oliver Leblerre
Carrie Smith ami Rath McCamnion
.1 Massa's In ile Coltl, Cold Ground....
Henry Weber
Charles Peterson
4 H) —Pedal Study Pearls
(2) —Turkish March Prank Dynes
Sibyl McCamnion
5 (11—Des Sylphes G. liachmknn
(2l —Narcissus Kthlhert Nevln
Corrlne Smith and Pauline Schassberger
Intermission — .
(Part Two)
•1 (1) —Matushka (Polish Dance)
Heinrich Kngel
(2) —Humoreske Anton Dvorak
Corrlne Smith
7 Frolic in the Forest..... .Raoul Gabriel
Maybelle Johnston
K Success Mazurka Bachmann
Ruth McCammon
!) (t(—Menuet )■ J. Paderewki
(2) —Glistening Pearls ..11. Knglemann
Pauline Schassberger
10 Away to the Woods P. D. Morey
Corrlne Smith, Hazel Mallory and
Pauline Schassbergei
—
A BRACE OF ACCIDENTS.
Sunday afternoon as Miss Margaret
Clark, teacher of the Chopaka school, was
exploring one of the lesser canyons on
the north slope of Mount Chopaka with
a lady companion, she was caught in a
snow and rock slide, sustaining severe
Injuries. Dr. Lewis was called and on ex
amination found that the young lady’s
right arm was broken in two places, near
the elbow and at the wrist. The fractures
were reduced and the sufferer made as
comfortable as possible. Tuesday Miss
Clark came to Oroville to remain for a
few days under treatment.
Sunday afternoon while scouring the
hills a short distance southwest of Oro
ville. in company with several companions
Elliott, the sixteen year old son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. C. Hancock, fell off a cliff
a distance of some 25 feet, sustaining a
fracture of the skull. He was treated at
his home by Dr. Efner. until Wednesday
afternoon, when the lad W’as taken to St.
.Joseph’s hospital, where he could receive
careful nursing and attention. He has
never regained conslousness up to the
time of writing, and Is in a very serious
condition, although his physician Is hope
ful of an ultimate recovery. It is not
known exactly how the accident occurred,
as none of his companions saw young
Hancock fall, but it Is supposed that he
stepped too near the edge of the cliff and
the soft ground giving way he was pre
cipitated upon the rocks below.
In conformity with other banks In the
state the local bank is discounting Cana
dian money 1 per cent. To those ot us
having no money this will cut no Ice. to
the blessed, it may make quite a differ
ence.
GOOD ROARS MEETING.
The East and West Okanogan Val
ley Good Roads' association will bold
a public meeting in the library build
ing next Wednesday afternoon at 1:30
o’clock, when the problem of an equi
table distribution of road monies for
this immediate part of the county will
bo taken up. considered and solved,
so fur as practicable. This good roads
movement is something that everybody
is, or should be, interested in, whether
a resident of the town or country, and
all who can possibly spare the time
should be present at the meeting. The
county commissioners are willing that
the residents of the various districts
have a voice in the distribution and
application of road money raised in
that particular district, and those lo
calities that are passive or indiffer
ent, will find themselves left out in
the cold. It hardly seems necessary to
urge people to take an interest in a
movement of such great importance.
The mere announcement of the time
and place of a meeting for such a pur
pose as considering good roads should
be sufficeut to insure the presence of
a largo crowd.
■
IMPORTANT METING,
A call has been issued for a general
public meeting of all those who are inter
ested i nirrigatlon to be held at Okanogan
on April 7th.
The subject of irrigation Is of vital In
terest to Okanogan county, and to every
man living within or having interests in
the county.
Today Okanogan county Is more talked
of than any other single section of the
state. In its present condition it is often
referred to as the "brightest spot” In the
state, and its future prospects are most
promising.
Of all the resources ol Okanogan county
mme possess greater possibilities than
those of irrigation. The reclamation of the
arid hinds of the state and county present
the best and surest means for an increase
of population and wealth.
The splendid development in the Ale
thow country and under the government
project on the lower Okanogan are but
illustrations of what will take place in
other sections of the county when the
arid lands are put under irrigation. If the
people of Okanogan county become arous
ed and fully understand what a complete
development of the irrigation resources
of the county will mean in the way of in
creased population and the consequent in
crease in wealth the first step toward
velopment will have been taken. The last
few years has taught us much in the way
of a safe and sane development of irriga
tion projects. The continued welfare
the actual user of the land must be the
prime object of all development work.
Okanogan county Is now carrying a
heavy debt. A speedy and complete use
of all lands possible to irrigate will be a
sure means of so increasing the wealth
of the county that a clear ledger and a
low tax rate will he one of the many
henellts to he received. It Is hoped that
ever county official will take an Interest
in this meeting and study the suggestions
offered, and analyze the plans outlined.
VINDICATED.
Some time ago the Gazette contained an
Item that did an injustice to a worthy and
unoffending gentleman, based on mis
representations reaching this office. The
incident was the visit of Deputy Game
Warden Blurton. of British Columbia,
who was here, as lie alleged, to arrest 11.
Murk, a former resident of Penticton, on a
charge of violating the British game laws.
It has just developed that tins was a
trumped up charge, made to annoy and
humiliate the victim. Mr. Murk laid the
case before Hon. W. J. Bowser, attorney
general of tlie province of British Colum
bia. and recently received the following
letter from that official:
Victoria, B. C. 24th of February, 1016.
Mr. 11. Murk. Oroville, Washington.
Dear Sir—l duly received your commu
nication of tlie 12th of January in con
nection with Deputy Game Warden Blur
ion.
This man’s actions have been so unsatis
factory of late that we have decided to
dispense with his services at the end of
March.
Yours truly,
W. J. BOWSER,
Attorney General.
Mr. Murk went to Canada when a child
and lived there for 3f> ' ears. He has much
property In the province, ami was highly
respected and esteemed by his neighbors
and fellow townsmen. At the breaking out
of the war he was subject to some annoy
ance from irresponsible persons on ac
count of his nativity, and came across the
line where he coul live In peace. He has
been urged time and attain by some of the
best citizens of his home town to return.
Since coming to Oroville he has lived a
uuiet. retired life, and has made such a
favorable impression among our people
that those who know him trust that he
may decide to make Oroville his perma
nent home.
BENEFIT BAZAAR
Plans are on foot for holding a bazaar
in the Orpheum on Monday and Tuesday
after Easter for the benefit of St. Joseph’s
hospital. All denominations and the citi
zens generally will unite to make the ba
zaar a universal expression of the good
will of the community The hospital Is a
very Important institution for the tow f n.
owing to doing so much charity work the
Institution has not been profitable, and any
aid that can be extended by the public
will be of great assistance to the worthy
managers . The bazaar should be a big
one. and the people of the town and sur
rounding country should patronize it lib
erally.
COMMERCIAL CLUB TO ENTERTAIN.
The entertainment committee of the
Commercial Cluh is arranging a public
entertainment that is to he given at the
Orpheum theater Friday evening. Mart'll
24. The program will he made up of vocal
and instrumental music, and various
stunts interesting and entertaining. Ev
erybody stands Invited and all who <an
do so should he present. More particulars
will he given in the next issue.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Preaching morning and evening. Morn
ing services at 11 o’clock. Subject of ser
mon. "Preparedness.” Evening service at
7:3 ft, subject of sermon. "Shall We Know
Each other in Heaven?”
Sunday school at Ift o’clock. You are not
too young or not too old to belong to our
Sunday school. The adult hihle class with
Mr. ludson Murray as teacher will more
than Interest you. It will positively help
you. Why not attend our school and learn
from the Hook of Hooks?
The choir practice will be held In the
church at S o’clock on Friday evening.
We give you a warm hearted Invitation
to come an enjov all our services.
A. W. BOND. Pastor.
11.60 PER THAR
