Mo.
nrv
rirv
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU, s : :
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. : : : :
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV.
AND THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, MARCH 17, 1916-
NUMBER 10.
WEEEM
ff Ti TTTFr T7tT Tnr
jl JH
1 KJUBU JN JtL
KAGE DECLARES
CITY MUST BUY
FIRE AUTOMOBILE
State Expert Says Revamp
Fire Dept. or Suffer 15 Per
Cent In Insurance Rates.
CALLS CAPE'S HOSECART
TANK TOWN EQUIPMENT
City Needs Motor, Six Firemen
and Chief On Duty All
The Time.
Simultaneous with tho statement
from Mayor Kage last night that he
will make a personal fight for a motor
lire apparatus and modern lire fight
ing equipment for the Cape, E. W.
Watson, rate expert for the Missouri
State Insurance Commission, told The
Tribune that the city's fire lighting
ability will have to be brought up to
standard or the fire insurance rates
will have a blanket rise of 15 per cent
at once.
The fire insurance rates in the Cape
now are so high they are considered
prohibitive, and Mr. Watson declared
he will approve an advanced rate for
every company doing business here
unless the improvements in the lire
fighting equipment are made.
"The fire fighting equipment of the
Cape is far below the standard," Mr.
Watson said, after he had witnessed
the battle the firemen made against
the conflagration that swept away
nearly a quarter million dollars worth
of property at Main street and Broad
way. Mr. Watson was in the Cape for a
thorough inspection of the fire hazards
in this city, with a view of adjusting
rates, as well as an inspection of all
the fire lighting facilities at the city's
command.
"A city like the Cape ought not to
have to call upon the fire fighting
forces of places like Jackson and
ChaiTee to down a big fire. The equip
ment you have here is a village fire
department. The Cape has outgrown
that.
"To standardize your fire depart
ment, I would outline roughly depart
ments such as they exist elsewhere.
You ought to have a combination mo
tor truck that carries two or three j
times the hose a wagon does, a 35- j
gallon chemical tank, hook-ladders and j
a force pump that will put the 125
pound pressure on four lines of hose.
"You ought to have fix regular men
in your department and you ought to
have a chief on duty all the time.
Those men ought to practice and train
fire fighting every day. The chief
should show them how to do things
quickly.
"Every man who was trying to fight
that fire today, did his best, but he
had nothing with which to work and
they were not all trained to get the
maximum of efliciency.
"The Cape must get these things if
you don't want a fifteen per cent in
crease in the insurance rates at once
and on everything.
"To decrease the rates, fire preven
tion must be taken up in more ways
than the revampment of your fire de
partment. The schools ought to go in
to the business of fire prevention, fire
drills should be inaugurated and sani
tation on all premises should be ob
served as an essential way of fighting
fires."
Mr. Watson last night declared he
will have a conference with Mayor
Kage today, when the subject of fire
department equipment will be gone in
to thoroughly.
Mayor Kage last night declared he
will start an investigation at once to
learn the price, of motor fire fifhting
trucks which will be equipped with
force pumps, hose and chemicals.
"I will lay the matter before the
Council and request it to act," Mayor
Kage said. "We must have modern
equipment and I intend to make it a
personal issue."
XUCKLES GET $1 FINE EACH.
Men Plead Guilty to Assault Before
Judge W. H. Wilier.
Benjamin and John Nuckles yester
dav nleaded guilty before Justice of
the Peace W. H. Wilier to charges of
common assault and were fined $1 and
costs each.
They were charged on the complaint
of their sister, Mrs. Josie Ross, who
asserted that they struck her at the
home of her father, Ganes NnrWes, at
1121 Cousin street.
MEXICANS HAVE
POISONEDBR00KS
FUNSTON THINKS
American General Orders
Troops to Take Water With
Them In Mexico.
CARRANZA GENERAL IS
SLAIN BY OWN MEN
Germans More Forward In Cam
paign For Verdun Final
Smash Due.
Special Dispatch to Tho Tribune.
El Paso, Tex., March 15. The strict
censorship is still in force and pro
hibits the announcement of the
.strength of the expedition which en
tered Mexico today, except to say that
it is approximately 4,000 mounted
nn with a pack train and munition
train attending.
The advance guard is followed by
an aeroplane corps. Flying machines
are loaded on forty huge motor
trucks.
Fearing that the water along the
route will be poisoned, every motor
tank in this section, commonly used
team
for sprinkling, has been requisitioned
bv the army.
Marfa. Tex., March 15. The re
ported death of Col. Rojas, Carranza's
commander at O.iinaga, at the hands
of his own men who attempted to
mutiny, was confirmed tonight by
telephone advices of this city. All the
Americans in that vicinity have as
sembled at Presidio, Tex., to protect
themselves against a raid from the
Mexicans. A detachment of infantry
under Sergt. Flounders is patrolling
the border in that vicinity . Reinforce
ments from Fort Clark are expected
to arrive soon.
Washington, March 13. Secretary
Baker made the official announcement
tonight that the American expedition
had crossed the border. At 10 o'clock
the Secretary, after a conference with
President Wilson, gave out a state
ment in which he said that the de
partment had received a code message
from Gen. Funston, stating that the
troops were now in Mexico.
The message also states that the
Carranza government interposed no
objection, but on the other hand, was
co-operating.
London, March 15 Important gains
were made by the Germans after very
heavy fighting today west of Verdun.
According to the German report re
ceived from Berlin tonight, the Ger
mans pushed forward west of ti
beaux forest to the heights of Dead
Man's Hill.
Twenty-five French officers and ap
proximately 1,000 men were captured,
says the Berlin statement. Dead
Man's Hill lies five miles northwest
of Verdun. The Germans made slight
advances at numerous points sur
rounding the prize fortress. The
Crown Prince's campaign has made
progress every day since it was inaug
urated . The final smash has been an
ticipated for more than a week, but it
taems as it cannot be delayed many
days longer.
'DEAD' MAN CLEANS WINDOWS
St. Marcelii France, March 15.
The mother, father and sister of a
French soldier journeyed to this town,
to attend his funeral, report having
reached them that he had been tilled
in action and his body sent here.
In the courtyard of the hospital they
saw a man cleaning windows and
asked him to direct them to the mor
tuary chapel. The man turned to re
ply and to the surprise of all of them
he proved to be the one Vhom they
had come to see placed i tie graVe.
0
THAT
Mexican Bandits In Pilgrimage Along The
American Border Line At Columbus, N. M,
f;;"i"r Lti.jywiii) auji j:"":""' is," ",vi JJ""""' r v r"v" M "
- -4- '1!. j
NORMAL BALL TEAM
PURCHASE UNIFORMS
Pill Ticklers Say Team Will Get
The Candy This
Season.
Measurement of several of the Nor
mal baseball athktcs for new suits
yesterday opened the annual spring
work of the pill chasers at the Nor
mal. About 40 men have indicated to
Coach Courleux that they will try out j
for the nine and it is predicted that
the Normal will have one of the best
baseball teams in its history this
spring.
Several of the men who have played
on the Normal team.s heretofore have
been furnished with the old suits. On
the arrival of the new uniforms the
men who are considered the most like
ly candidates will be fitted out with
the season's equipment and the older
uniforms will be turned over to the
more inexperienced aspirants.
The battery that was formed at the
Normal last year has lost the services
of Caldwell and Hicks, two twirlers of
considerable repute. Kert Shy will be
on the receiving end this spring to
break in a new pitcher. Black and
Hook both have been working as pitch
ers and expect to try out for that j
position.
Roy Parker will be after his position
at first base and will have the rivalry
of Weeks. Parker may be shifted to
another part of the infield and Weeks
allowed to take first base in order to
obtain a better infield. Feterman is
considered a likely candidate for
shortstop and Leo Schultz, captain of
the team, will be after second base.
No good third baseman has been
lined up, it is said. Louis Schultz,
Meade and more than a score of oth
ers are trying for the outfield as well
as infield- positions. Schultz and
Meade probably will land positions on
the first team.
Parker and Meade are considered
two of the best batsmen the team will
have.
No practice will be started until the
men can get outdoors. The playing
this year probably will be done on the
diamond at the Fairgrounds Park, if
proper arrangementE may be made
with the city council.
LOSS SUSTAINED1 BY CONFLAGRATION
HED CAPE'S FAMOUS LANDMARKS
CANDIDATES MUST
FILE BY MONDAY
Deputy Sheriff Seagraves Enters
Race For Council in
First Ward.
Within the next four days W. J.
Seagraves, of North Spanish street,
dtputy sheriff under Sheriff William
A. Summers, will come out for City
Councilman in the First Ward against
S. Edward Blumer, who is running for
re-election, and W. F. Comer, of the
St. Charles hotel, who is seeking the
office on a platform of Sunday moving
picture shows.
Seagraves' petition will be circu
lated todav by Charles McDonald and j
it is expected that it will be filed with
City Clerk R. W. Frissell before Mon
day. Monday is the final date upon which
prospective candidates for the City
Council may file their petitions with
the city clerk and have their names
placed upon the official ballots. The
election will be held April 4.
Secretary Lee L. Bowman of the
Board of Education yesterday an
nounced the annual school election,
which will be held simultaneously with
the election of the city councilmen.
Dr. G. W. Walker and H. A. Nuss
baum will retire from the board and
two men will be elected to succeed
them. No candidates have been men
tioned for the positions as yet.
The board also will submit a propo
sition to increase the rate of taxation
for school purposes for the next
school year from 40 cents on the $100
assessed valuation to $1 on the $100
valuation.
In the City Council election the can
didates now line up as follows:
Fird Ward S. Edward Blumer and
W. F. Comer, both of whom have filed,
and W. J. Seagraves, who will file
shortly.
Second Ward Carl Umbeck, Arthur
C. Bowman, "Irish" O'Connell ami
Charles Wilson.
Third Ward M. L. Flannery, Char
les Moeder, Gus Stein, Brunke, W. T.
Ruff and D. H. Harper.
Fourth Ward W. H. Medley and
W. A. Hixoh, who have filed, .and
R. 8. Andrews, who has indicated an
intenti'on of filing.
W. H. STOUT RISKS
HIS LIFE AT FIRE
Ladder Pulled From Under Him
While He Is Four Stories
High.
W. H. Stout, an employe of the
Dempsey Grocer company, offered
his services as a volunteer tire lighter
yesterday morning ami performed
heroic work in his attempts to save
the Terminal hotel from destruction.
The Terminal hotel abuts the north
ern storage room of the Dempsey
Grocer company, and f:r a time it
seemed as if tho grocer company
would bo added to the list of buildings
destroyed.
Mr. Stout tendered his sen-ices as
soon as he learned of the fire, and in
trying to save the Terminal hotel he
actually placed his life in jeopardy.
He mounted a ladder and climbed to
the fourth floor, where he attacked
the flames with a hose.
In the excitement, several men pull
ed the ladder out from under Stout
and he saved himself from being dash
ed to pieces against the pavement by
seizing a window sill and clinging to
it until the ladder was shoved back
under him.
A shriek went forth from the spec
tators who witnessed the incident.
For fully three minutes ho clung to
the sill with one hand and with the
other hand he gripped tightly to a
rough point on the brick wall, his lej.'.
dangling in an effoil to tird a crevK-7
to brace him and afford some pro
tection. When the ladder was returned to
him, he remained at the top and k?pt
i! stream playing on the burning
bjilding. Ho did not leave hs po.-t
until hope of saving the edifice hvA
been abandoned and his position v
came dangerous. He then climhed
down and made himself generally use
ful at other places.
FRANK DAY DEAD IN TEXAS.
Former Oak Ridge Man Was I'nele
of Dr. W. N. Howard of Cape.
Friends and relatives at Jackson of
Frank Day, of Arlington, Tex., an
uncle of Dr. W. N. Howard and Robert
Howard of the Cape, yesterday receiv
ed word from his home of his death.
Mr. Day was a native of Cak Ridge
and was a member of one of the best
known families in that vicinity.
He was 71 years old. He was born
and raised at Oak Ridge and when he
was about 25 years old, he departed
from Southeast Missouri to seek his
fortune in Texas.
He was married there and settled
down at Arlington. He is survived by
his wife and a daughter, Miss Ella V.
Day ,who is a school teacher at Ar
lington. A sister, Mra. Avis Walker,
and a brother, Nick Day, besides sev
eral nephews and nieces live at Oak
Ridge.
TWO HOTELS AND ONE
DEPARTMENT STORE If
ASHES If FEW HOURS
Blaze, First Discovered In Buckner
Ragsdale's, Quickly Spreads To
Saloon And Then Half Of Block
Ignites.
HOTEL CLERKS AROUSE GUESTS
TRAPPED IN OLD BUILDINGS
A. C. Vasterling, Who Carried
$60,000 Of The Insurance, Says
Total Loss Will Not Exceed
$ 125,000 Louis Hopp Discovers
Flames.
Losses In Cape's Greatest Fire,
And Amounts Of Insurance Held
The total loss from the tire that swept Broadway, Main and Water
streets yesterday morning aggregated !S2r:...()0.00, as nearly accurately
as the figures could be obtained yesterday afternoon and last night.
Tho insurance carri'-d on the damaged property amounts in the
aggregate to a little imre than half the amount of the loss, and accord
ing to the statement of insurance experts, the real losses from the tire
will diminish when investigations are made. The tabluated losses are
as follows:
Firm. Loss. In.-urance.
Buckner-Ragsdale Company Sfio.OOO.OO $::::.O00.!O
Houck Building "O.OM.OO 20,000.00
Terminal Hotel 20,000.00 ti.OflO.CO
Rivcrview Hotel 4.r.0O0.lM I-"., 000. 00
Claud Speak and Cape Brewery & Ice Co. 7.000.00 4.000.00
Mrs. Florence Boone, millinery store. .. 4.MHUH) 2,700.00
N. S. Weil'T, .ieve!ry store 2,.")00.(!0 covered.
A. R. Zoelsman. grocery company 0,000.00 partly covered.
Dr. M. Rosenthal :;,r,00.00 1, .".00.00
H. E. Alexander r.,000.00 2,.".00.OO
R. H. Whitelaw 1.200.00 Non-.
Mrs-. Ella Mahar 2.:.00.00 covered.
Mrs. Mollie Jones. Terminal hotel lease. . ::,000.0; .".OO.OO
Palace Saloon 200.00 covered.
Southeast Missouri Realty Co r00.00 covered.
Office fixtures of Ben Yinyard. John 1.
Sample, Capt. W. C. Bain. H. S. Dean,
R. H. Bailey and Dr. J. Y. Braham... 15.000.00 partly covered.
- Meyer-Albert Grocery Co 000.00 covere d.
E. C. Allen, Riverview Hotel leasee 1.500.00 None.
Hempstead Building 200.00 covered.
Total
52i:;,50o.oo
In addition to the figures gathered in the table .many guests at
the Riverview and Terminal hotels sustained losses of their personal
effects, as well as families living over the Weiler store on Main street,
which were forced to vacate by the approach of the flames.
As the ruins of the greatest fire in Cape Girardeau's history began cool
ing last night, a tabulated report of losses sustained by two dozen business
firms, individuals and estates, showed an aggregate fire loss of $213,00.00.
No lives were lost and none was seriously injured.
Insurance policies aggregating more than half the total estimated loss
are in force, and A. C. Vasterling. fire loss expert, yesterday afternoon de
clared that the real loss from the conflagration will be about $125,000,
He ho'ds $60,000 of the insurance.
The fire wiped out two hotels, the Riverview and Terminal, gutted th"
Buckner-Ragsdale store and then reduced it to an ash beneath a pile of
brick building walls of the Houck building, smashed a warehouse of thf
Dempsey Grocer Co., and was stopped only by a high fire wall on the
south, marking the line of the N. S. Weiler jewelry store and tho Dempsey
Greer Co. building.
The flames leaped more than 100 feet in the air and destroyed windows
and wooden objects for yards around as they were whipped southeast by a
strong wind from the northwest.
As the conflagration spread from floor to floor and building to building,
business men in the entire block bounded by Main and Water streets,
Themis and Broadway, gave up hope of saving a vestage of their property.
The fire, according to those who saw it at its earliest stages, was in the
Buckner-Ragsdale store on the floor even with Main street and a little east
of the eide entrance to the store. The flames at that time were playing
near the offices of the store company.
The rapidity with which they spread was nothing short of miraculous.
Three fire alarms were sent in from three places and almost simultaneously.
Silas P. Lail, who was reading The Tribune in the Riverview bar at 6:30
o'clock, looked over to the Buckner-Ragsdale store and saw the flames fill
the rear end of the store room. He reached behind him for the telephone
and sent in an alarm.
He then ran into the lobby of the hotel, roused the clerk, Conie Wise, and
warned him to awaken the hotel guests.
Louis Hopp, who lived on the third floor of the Terminal hotel, got gp
(Continued on Page 5)
