BARME DAILY
nn
MES
VOL. XX -NO. 2.
BAKIIE, VKUMOXT, FRIDAY, MAKCII 17, 1910.
PMCK, OXK CENT.
THE
4
FIVE
TRIES
FAIL
claims that Germnn troop have ad
vanced their line went of the Corbcaux
wood on tho lifiht of Mort )Iomiuu
(Dead Man's liill.) Tlie truth is that
in the great attack which was repulsed
on a front of more than 60 kilometers,
the Germans have succeeded in penetrat
ing an element of our front line trenches
at the hill No. 2(i5, of which we hold the
trenches on tho counter slope. They have
never taken any footing on Dead Alan's
hill (hill No. 21)5), which we still hold."
REP. GREENE AMONG SPEAKERS.
Before House Voted to Retain One-Cent
Sugar TaHft.
Washington, U. C, March 17. With
thirteen Democrats and the Socialibt
n TT...1J r,r, Afini."Kmow opposing, i lie House yesifrui.y
JCIIIIUIIS iiuiicu t oiciwivi by a vote of 3jg to 14 pg8ed the admin
ymj . . -I -v jistration bill to retain the present tariff
VVEVC AgflinSt lilC J.e",j0f ono (..na pound on siigHr instead of
r e -r permitting the free clause of the Under-
ICnSCS 01 VaUX t Ort ana ( Wood-Simmoi.s tariff act to go into effect
r . . .... . A . II. .
ir.'ll A VnnU nNiy measure now goes 10
Tillage, aiiu uaiu . i ii v.
Were Thrown Back, Ac
cording to the French Of
v cial Statement
ATTACK SUDDENLY
SHIFTED AT NIGHT
French Held Steadfast and
Sent Attackers Back with
Curtain of Fire, Notwith
standing That the Charges
Were of the Most Violent
Character ' .
The German drive at the Verdun de
fenses has again shifted direction. Strong
assaults were made on the lines east of
Verdun during the night, five successive
assaults in ,the Vaux region being re
pulsed by the French. The Paris war
office announced to-day that the German
attacks were of the mbst violent char
acter but each was broken up by the
French curtain of fire. Both the fort and
the village of Vaux were the German ob
jectives, two attacks being made on each,
while a fifth was delivered in an effort
by the Germans to debouch from a pro
tected roadway southeast of Vaux vil
lage. Important operations may be develop
ing along the southern part of the Rus
sian front as Vienna reports Increasing
activity by the artillery on both sides.
In Galicia the Russians have attacked
along the Stripa but without success, the
Austrian war office declares.
The Italian offensive along the Isonzo
is commanding increasing attention al
though Vienna's latest report on the sit
uation asserts that the attacks on the
Austrian lines have decreased in violence.
The current statement of the Rome war
office records counter-attacks by Aus
trians on positions newly won by the
Italians. These are declared to have
been repulsed.
Dispatches from Dutch sources indicate
probably small loss of life in the sinking
of the Dutch liner Tubantia off the Dutch
coast yesterday by a mine or a torpedo.
Senate.
Voting against the bill were Represen
tative llailey of Pennsylvania; Buchanan,
Sabath. MeAndrews and Tavenner of im
nois; Callaway of Texas; Crosse and
Gordon of Ohio; Milliard of Colorado;
Howard of Georgia; Johnson of Ken
tucky; Thompson of Oklahoma, and Van
Dyke of Minnesota, Democrats, and Lon
don of New York, Socialist.
Debate on the measure aroused little
enthusiasm until late in the day. when
Majority Leader Kitcliin took the floor
to close the argument. It wag one of
the few times Mr. Kitchin has appeared
for an administration measure during the
session. Almost every Republican mem
ber was present to see him quizzed by
the minority tariff experts.
A rapid exchange resolved itself into
a general assault on and defense of the
entire Underwood-Simmons tariff act.
Opening with the declaration that the
Republican party was the original free
NO TROUBLE
IS EXPECTED
BY OFFICIALS
Carranza Forces Are Said to
Have Much Better Feeling
Toward the United States!
Troops Which Are in Pur
suit of Villa in Mexico, So
Washington Hears
best thing they could do. Their depar-'
4..-- .1.,... l ...... i i ..
tine, nicy nam, wns u"i. chiimcu ny any
overt act on the' part of the Mexicans
or failure on the part of the de facto
government to offer protection. Kleven
Americans joined the party at Monte
rey. There were a number of American
women in the party, incleding Mrs. Wil
liam. Consul Williams Kxi.l Im umil.l '
remain at 'Laredo or near the Mexican Sentiment GrOWS in Erig-
iHimrr jinmiug insmuituim imni wte
SLACKERS' MAY
BE FORCED IN
Washington, P. C, March 17. Very
sugar organization of the United States ' satisfactory assurances regarding the at
OPTIMISM FELT
BY GOVERNMENT
Consul Silliman, Who Is with
General Carranza, , Sends
Word to State Department
That Situation in Mexico
Is Considerably More Reassuring
state department, lie refused to diHCUaS
his leaving Mexico.
Other members of the party said they
had decided to leave because Torreon
was considered to be in Villa territory
and therefore unsafe for American. They
said they believed, however, that the Car
ranza garrison was strong enough to hold
the city against a Villa attack. A few
unmarried Americans remained, they
said.
Food conditions at Torreon also, it
was said, influenced the decision to leave,
as the city was depending almost entire
ly upon supplies from the United States.
Duango City, -several of the American
refugees said, is cift off from all com
munication. There i are said to be at
least 20 Americans there. They said
they feared Torreon might be similarly
isolated by Ula adherents. (
land Toward the Scheme of
Married Men Enlistment
DERBY RECRUITS
' WANT OTHERS IN
A PLEASANT GATHERING.
Heated Discussion Was Held
in the House of
Commons
INADEQUATE DRAIN
SAID BY WITNESS
TO CAUSE LOSS
Testimony Being Taken in County Court
in Suit Brought By B. W. Hooker
' & Co., Against City of Barre
to Recover for Damages
Done By Water.
Testimony tending to allow, according
to the plaintiff, the inadequacy of Barre
City's system of surface draining during
severe thaws or heavy rains J was intro
duced yesterday afternoon lurid to-day
in Washington county court during the
trial of the 11. V. Hooker & Co., vs Citv
of Jtarre suit. A. A. Sargent, manager of
the Hlanchard block, in which the Hooker
store is located, was the first witness
examined, occupying the Btand for an
hour and a half. A plan showing the lo
cation of streets relative to the position
of the lilanchard block was explained to
he jury by the witness and he told of
the arrangements of the surface drain
pipes- and culverts on Washington,
hurch and Prospect streets near Main
treet.
Mr. Sargent said that tho morning of
January 7, 101.), he was summoned to
BEGINS DUTIES
NEXT MONTH
F. H. Abbott Is Chosen for
Washington County Ag
ricultural Agent
BARRE SET JTED .
AS HE QUARTERS
j :
Appointee Graduate of the
Univen of Vermont
Collef f Agriculture
For Employes nd Officials or the Ten'
ney Corporation.
The third annual dinner of the repre-
tl IT .111. .tin . . . . a
London, March 17. Tt was past s 1 Mr. Sarcent said that the morninu of ,u AU0"' e'lMle 01 n
o'clock this morning when the House of January 7. 101."). he was summoned to r-,1,vors,tJr of ermont college of agri-
I Commons adjournud after a protracted the Hooker store by telephone, and upon culture, somo time manager of the Mar
debate, nominally on army estimates, but his arrival found water coming from tin A. Ilrown farms in Wilmington and
really covering a wide range of topic. ; the catch basin on Prospect street, down;. fm rni,ti, f ..
J here were many heated passages re- Knterprise alley and running into the I , .v..v-..,v . t ...
Hooker store basement. He testified ! 'pr concern in ermont, Juassaeliu-
ganling the problem of calling up mar-
sentatives of the Montpelier & Jlarre ried men
Light A Power company and the Iiarre There is widespread feelinp that com-
and Montpelier Traction & Power com- pulsion should be extended to the innr-
pany was held last evening in Bailey ried men, as considerable part of the ill
hall. Montpelier,- to the mutual enjoy- feeling among married men now being
ment of about three score employes and called to the colors is due to the fact
a half dozen official. Not even the fail- that those who voluntarily enrolled un
ure of Levin J. Chase, manager of, the dcr the Derby scheme must go into the
Concord L'lectrie Co., who was to be the army, while the married men who de
principal after-dinner speaker, to ap- clined the invitation to enroll are nl
pear, he having been detained near i lowed to continue in their civil occupa-
uoodaville, IS. H., by a derailment, suf- . tion.
stated that the widespread ngita
that the catch basin in Knterprise alley
was not sufficient to take care of the
water as it poured down the driveway
next to the municipal building.
setts and New York, was elected county
agent of the Washington County Farm
Bureau association aj a meeting in IIow-
and quoting from congressional records titude of the Carranza government to- need to spoil the banquet, although those j It is
and campaign books of the early Wi, to jwarj the entering of American troops IT1'0 llitl "",ke m'"'f remarks assured their tion o
prove his assertions, the maioritv leau- . . ,, .
t.tflcks from former Sneaker .
Cannon. Representatives Fordney of ; nepartment to-tay by Consul Mlliman,
Michigan, Cooper of Wisconsin, Greene who is with Carranza. He reported that
of Vermont, and other Republican tariff no trouble from the Carranza forces is ex-
Attorney for the defense objected to ! Iand hal1 Thursday afternoon. Mr. Ab
questions being asked the answer of ' bott is to begin his duties April l"nd
which would describe the system, basing thus Washington county is the tenth
the argument on the ground that tho i . , ,
i: ui t i ... icounty in ermont to have a paid expert
citv Was not llnhm for th mnnnnr nf fhi J 1
construction of tho system unless it was
shown tJiat it was abuse of the system
winch resulted in the damage done. At
torneys for the defense took exceptions
on the part of the married men , to the ruling of Judge Butler on the
assisting in the solution of its agricul
tural problems.
The new county agent was selected
from a list of five candidates for tho
position, all of them graduates of agri-
1 a.ui-. .V. w.r,. .i 1 "I l . .. C 1 M .1 . . . .1
. . ...... oecause vi me i.ceieni iihs mreauy interierea somewnat win. question ot the auinmsability ot sueii rnltnrnl ,1, .,.., i vi-m.w v..
j i t o l imw iiu'iira uric wuififu lu Hie hiuik n,. v.,.1 i m.,1 f ,J..,.L.,r ,.i 4l. u..t 41.... ... -
er u.rw mcks jrum loimer I.c.c. , . .., c:n: I ,. v , ".r ... iir, , tv uiw, York, who were examined personally as
specialists.
EXCITEMENT CAUSED DEATH.
As Mendon Farmer Tried to Extricate
Team from Snowdrift..
Two French Attacks Repulsed.
Berlin, March 17. The German official
statement reports two attacks by French
on the German positions on Dead Man's
heights. Both are declared to have been
unsuccessful.
GERMANS FORCED BACK
When They Attempted to Carry French
Position at Le Mort Homme.
Paris, March 17. The French official
(statement last night said:
"Xorth of the Aine there has been
artillery activity on both sides in the re
gion of Bois Des Buttes, south of Ville
Aux Bols.
"In the Argonne' we carried out a con
centrated fire on the German organiza
tions northwest of the road from Va
rennes and on batteries in actiop on the
outskirts of Monfaueon.
'st of the Meuse, after a very vio
lent bombardment of our Beth i neon rt
Cumiers front, the Germans launched
during the course of the afternoon a
powerful attack against our positions at
1 Mort Homme. The assaulting masses,
which came on like waves, were not able
to gain footing at any point and were
forced back in the direction of the Bois
Rutland, March 17. A sudden attack
of heart failure induced by excitement
and exertion attending his efforts to ex
tricate from a big drift of snow in front
of the city poor farm on Woodstock ave
nue resulted in the death of L. G. Stat
ford of Mendon, a farmer, yesterday aft
ernoon at 1:30 o'clock. He was 63 years
old.
Mr. Stafford was returning to his home
from a trip to this city when liis rig
became stalled. He alighted from the
conveyance to aid the horse to plow out
of the drifts and while urging the ani
mal to pull, suddenly toppled over back'
ward in the snow. Overseer John J
Hickey of the poor farm was watching
the man from a window and he rushed
to the aid of Mr. Stafford, finding that
the Mendon man was dead.
Dr. F. H. Obhardt, city health officer,
was summoned and after an examination,
pronounced death due to heart failure
He gave permission for the removal of
the body to Spencer &. Cantley's under
taking rooms. Later the body was re
moved to the Stafford home in Mendon,
accompanied by Mrs. Stafford, who had
been summoned to this city."
Relatives of the dead man said last
evening that he had been affected with
heart failure for some time. Mr. Staf
ford was born in Swanton in 185.1. He
is survived by his wife, his mother, Mrs.
Elvina Reed, and a daughter. He is also
survived by a brother, Frank Stafford,
who .resides in New Hampshire and two
sisters, Mrs. W. Reed and Mrs. P. Reed
of Pittsfleld.
pected.
Oyer-night dispatches to Acting Sec-
listening to a most forceful and enter.
taming speaker.
The fifteen tables, each tastefully sur
mounted by pink arid white carnations,
were surrounded by the employes, with
reta'ry of State Folk and Secretary of j1,lf doMn 8t "fw"h tal)le- IH'ring the
War Baker are said to be optimistic al- "Y""" ..--
though the text of none of them .was n'pd SPl,,,-t'H"B;. .
made public. Administration officials
said the Mexican situation seemed en
tirely satisfactory and that the danger
of active opposition by Carranza forces
was believed to be growing less
NO SNIPING HAS
BEEN REPORTED
And American Expeditionary Forces ,in
Mexico Have Had No Clashes with
Villistas, According to Re
ports to Fort Sam Hous
ton, Tex.
San Antonio, Tex., March 17. The
American expeditionary forces have had
no casualties and no clashes with Vil
listas to date, according to reports re
ceived to-day at Fort Sam Houston. Xo
instances of sniping were reported.
CARRANZA TROOPS .
TRY TO CO-OPERATE
is ittle doubt that the calling up of Marshall S. Rounds of the B. W. Hook- to their qualifications at meetings held
furl Ituf ... i . 1 1.1 nf .iui-vmjl U-. I I I L1 ' A f . . 1 1 r C A. 1 . 1 n
,..,, ...v., ..... r, i,..iii.unv iiiuunni -nr. pamni on me in llnrro vs .r, v on.) ut
stand and completed his testimony early ; vioiM. Mx, AhlKtt is the son of Irving
this forenoon He described the flood- y, Abbott of I!rookfipId. lle ig a prod.
nip of the cellar and the damage done to ! uet of the 8oj, ,, a8sisto(1 llig fatlKr in .
SV l WltrS'". ,mt l by.th!'W management of al.W-acre farm un-
proups
onlv briefly postponed.
Among the proposals now being con
sidered is that of extending the military
age for single men to 45 years.
i
- IN A SERIOUS CONDITION
t
Manager H. D. Larabee of Montpelier
officiated as toastmaster and' after re
gretfully explaining the absenc;- of Mr.
Chase, facetiously- introduced Attorney
Fred E. Oleason. The latter proved to
be an excellent entertainer and delight-
1. i u lin.rnrd nit). ..Iai.b. oIai-.a. n.ta rtillif
... ....... i.-. ...wi..v... B ut ....-. i i i w:..
onlv once from l.i. hnmnrous remarks to . r"u11 8 Praiji: wkininwiui.fi
touch ..not. the ! ( nrena redness. He . MPOSUre which he suffered in Webster
rr..t . ... ..i..o.. ! v 1 1 1 e
any time of the day or night, to re
As Result of Shock and Exposure to
Frigid Temperature
James Donahue, aged 80, is at the City
hospital in a precarious condition as the
late yesterday afternoon. Mr,
! Donahue has been making his home with
spond to a call, and by forever being V'e . w , m T , . g "
prepared for an emergency they would
be more efficient to the organization.
Miss Louise Barber followed Mr. Glea-
son with a reading, "Ruggles' Oiristmas
Dinner, rendered in" such an excellent
manner that if called from the diners
much applause and from the toastmaster
the remark that there was an example
of preparedness. Later in "the program
day he appeared to be in his usual health
going to the store and. making a few
purchases. In the afternoon he went to
a small shed near the house for an arm
ful of wood. Members of the "fa mil y.
noting his prolonged absence, followed
him to the shed and found him lying
prostrate. Apparently he suffered
shock while bending over for wood. He
Miss Barber gave a second reading, fully i'"d ln lying on the floor of the shed
BOTH FEET FROZEN.
Vermont Man Walked Across Lake Cam
plain Ice to Enlist.
Plattsburg, X. Y.,- March 17. Walter
Cuvette of Colchester Point, Vt., was
taken in charge for medical treatment
at the depot last evening, both of his
feet being frozen as the result of a walk
across the lake. Guyette was told at
Xorth Hero that the 30th infantry sta
tioned at Tlattsburg had been ordered
to Mexico and as he had a desire to en
list, he immediately set out for this city.
He walked the entire distance across the
ice and early last night he staggered into
the depot completely exhausted. He was
observed bv the people there and they
contributed money to buy him some
food. Guyette was tJien turned over to
Chief of Police Senecal, who took the un
fortunate young man to a physician. It
was then discovered that the would-be
soldier's feet were badly frozen. He was
taken to a hospital.
Reports Received at Douglas, Arts, Tell
of Efforts By Troops of General
Calles, Military Governor
of Sonora.
Pouglaj. Ariz., March 17. The Car
ranza troops of General P. Elias Calles,
military governor of Sonora, are niak
ing an effort to-day to co-operate with
soldiers composing the expedition from
the United States in pursuit of Francis
co Villa, according to reports received
here.
NO POISON IN BODY.
24 PEOPLE DEAD
AFTER EXPLOSION
OF MUNITIONS
Carload of War Materials in Railroad
Yard at Monterey, Mexico, Was
Blown Up Carranza Tried
to Suppress News.
Laredo, Tex., March 17. Fourteen
Carranza soldiers and 10 civilians were
killed in an explosion of a carload of
grenades and artillery ammunition in
the yards of the Xational railroad of
Mexico at Monterey, Stexico. last Tues
day, according to a passenger reaching
here to-day lrom .Monterey. The news
was suppressed by the Carranza authori
ties because of the tension between the
I'nited States and Mexico.
VILLA BANDIT CAUGHT.
He Revealed Villa's Plans and Where
abouts in Detail 1
' Douglas, Ariz.. March 17. General P.
Elias Calles, military governor of Sono-
Rutland Man's Death Partly Caused By
Alcoholism.
Rutland, March 17. State's Attorney
tn me mis - , .v. :.. i -
Des Corbeaux, where our concentrated , , .. ... , i f u
, . , ' 1-11 a- .iceived from the state laboratory of hy-
fire, let loose immediately, inflicted . . . u
heavy losses on them. ' , " - ra, rPIwtPd officially to General Alvaro
..i.i t lt suit of the examination of the stomach ... '. , -. . . . .
rn l.ie ii;iib urn ui mi- ..leusp me
activity of the artillery redoubled eas'
and west of Donaumont, as well a
around the village of Vaux. Xo infan
try attack was carried out, however. ;
- ii. .1 1.-1. : . a. 1.
jveverineiess, uur iM.ii.-i.es i.wik under 1 ti . ......,. :
" - -". . br llim am t, the United States army
the man . system, a, shown by the anal- t t.ollmhllfc
1 . g 1 .ur.ii nn n i. in 1 11 is i-r, yesipr-
. aiiii i'iiit'1 i.iL;itii 11. jniii-iiin. iwijiviii, , .. . . 111 ,
st 1 11 1. V 1. 1 t . day, that his command had captured a
.an Italian, whose body was found under .- ' .,, . . .
as . . prisoner, who revealed villas plans and
supicious circumstances in a house on - , . ., 1
n iirirninmifl I.. u( iaii.
fire on several occasions troops engaged
in evolutions in that region
ipicious
.ueaoow ureei, in inia c it a inv e over a f. , ... . ,,
, v j j (opies of this report. General Calles
week ago. No poison was discovered. . ' . . f ... .14,. , , .
1 ....... 'SA.il were forwanleii In f.ntuiral tla i-l
. . 1 ..... i -ll Rll. Ii IB llir IIIRIII. B Ul'lll'l lllll III! - . ,
-In the Woevre a rather spirited bom-'jip(, wnil jn . ,av,n, t of .l. The man captured at lV.e Cabezns was
..J a ........... . n 1 . . in tho attAi-k nn f nliimKnu l u . n : .
... . 1 v u.i. n rn IM,
bardment on Ix.th sides occurred in the
swtors at the foot of the hills."
GALLIENI IS OUT.
as enjoyable as the first.
Preparedness also ran through the
remarks made by 11. T. Sands of Bos
ton and the speaker, touching on the
dilatory tactics of Congress in consider
ing the question, when it should be ap
parent to the law makers as well as to
every American citizen what their duty
should be, said that much of the attitude
was due to a characteristic of the Amer
ican people, the trait of indifference. "We
arc not willing," insisted Mr. Sands, 'to
think for ourselves, too willing to let
politicians and newspapers act and think
for us; we only read the headlines in the
newspapers,
Mr. Sands said that in his opinion, a
corporation known as a public service
corporation, should not be designed by
sueh a title, but should be called what
1 1 1 1 . a. r . 1. -
jjh oenevea it is, a sr.vanfc in me pen-
pie. Corporations are onlv a combination
of brains and capital, individuals banded
together. If reformers . could be tie
lieved. said the speaker, corporatwns are
to blame for most of bad conditions
which exist.
Reformers he divided into three sep
arate classes, the political reformer, who
plays to the galleries and looks for
the evils which exist and wishes to ob
literate them in a single day, and third,
the reformer, who from pre, stage or
magazine, delivers statements about
which he knows practically nothing. AH,
asserted the speaker, have failed to rec
ognize that the evils are but the natural
outgrow th of the changed conditions dur
ing the past half century, and cannot be
effaced for another fifty years, perhaps.
He brought out the point that the pub
lic sees the corporation thr6ugh the eyes
of the employes . and emphasized the
necessity of the employes act, being
such that public opinion of the corpora
tion is favorably determined. . .
The speaker also mentioned the tre
mendous importance of the local cor
poration's system to the people of the
vicinity, what would happen to the com
munities if every bit of service should
suddenly cease. He said every employe,
from manager to coal heaver, has an im
portant dutr to perform and it is the
spirit in which that duty is performed
that moulds public opinion of the com
pany.
Mr. Sands touched briefly npon the
history of the Tenney company, the first
purchase made by Charles H. Tenney and
his associates in 10OO of the Springfield
Gas company. Gradually other compa
nies were acquired, not by C. H. Tenney
and his friends, but by thousands of
stockholders. The Tenneys, are but em
ployes of directors and stockholders, said
Mr. Sands, and hold thiir -,-nnition by
giving result.
In closing. Mr. ands said that he felt
several minutes
lie was removed to the house and Dr.
X. K. Avery of East Barre was Bum
moned. The physician diagnosed the
paralysis as affecting the entire left side.
He advised his removal to the City hos
pital and Whiteomb's ambulance was
called at a late hour. Mr. Donahue lost
his power of speech after the shock, but
afterward he waa able to speak brokenly.
To-day his condition was reported to
show but slight change. Owing to the
man's advanced age, his chances for re
covery are regarded as uncertain.
DEATH OF ADDIE RICHARDSON.
Former Barre Woman Passed Away in
Brooklyn Yesterday.
Miss Addie Richardson, daughter of
Mrs. Julia Richardson of 40 Jefferson
street and the late George RiehArdoon,
died suddenly in Hrooklvn, X. Y., yes
terday, according to a dispatch received
here. Miss Richardson s sifter, .Mrs
Clavton S. Meaker and her husband, left
the citv last night for Xew York. They
w ill accompany the body to Barre, arriv
ing here Saturday night. It is probable
that the funeral will be held Sunday
f tern 0011.
So far as relatives of Mis Richardson
111 iiarre Know, sue naa noi neen 111 una
it is thought that the end must have
come very suddenly. A letter received
from her this week indicated that she
was in her usual health. Mis Richard
son was 46 years old and was liorn in
Barre on the ancestral Kiehardson farm.
Richardson road. She attended Goddard
seminary and thereafter lived in Kansas
City, Hudson, Mass.. and Brooklyn, hav
ing made her home iu the latter city for
the past six years. Her father, George
Richardson, died in Barre June 2S, lftl4.
plaintiff was City Engineer Reed' of til he registered at the state" college
Montpelier, formerly tho incumbent of 1!m After his graduation he was eiv.
in
en
an early opportunity to put his knowl-
a similar office in Barre. He described,
1. 1. j ir.r- A .
j.iiicu as naa Mr. .-.argent, suriace urain ,, nf ;ic,a;m ,,;., ..;.
pipes catch basins, etc. The case will test mnin . ,rown"of Wilminirton
and Boston was looking for a young
man of advanced ideas in agriculture to
probably extend over until to-morrow
and possibly until next week if reccsa
is taken earlier than to-morrow' noon.
THREE GIRLS WON
HIGHEST HONORS
AT SPAULDING
MRS. MERRILL RUSSELL DEAD.
holism, rhffkinir hi- rpiuin nf crretm . .
which he had eaten fi fling the trachea,; 1 , 1-.,,
..... . . He informs me that ilia, after the
serving to hasten the end. The wine ... . .. . . aV " ...
j .1 . a l 1 1 attack, went direct to the Corral tos
found in the room where the bodv lay , , , . . w.iani
'did not contain poion. .... u, -iir.. ... ... ...... -,rU ,. n cow ooys
Resiens from French Cabinet HI Health f x-.:. .u. j:... - 4... because they refused to give him horses.
Given as Canse. the man was prohablv not drugged and ?w,i,n ,' ; ,n1 "IT -"r,K,r!tion :J",,,d " f" lh
.r nn mirl-i nf 1 t - icr .if i-njiK-ti nn me ijLn. from (fame I ri II l .... n l llir mil-efWSI 111 OlISI-
I ... .- T r. H it n I . . ..I. I. . ' ..... . ' .... ..."
Gsllieni, miniter
because of ill health and Gen. CharW . .n raptured sim-e Villas raid.
Koque has been appointed to succeed , . . . ., . . '. .being held in Agua Prieta.
him. . j I ,
pimr wtmn i'miii,,. ,-.iii'iiii,n ti rtii.rrT
falls upon them because Raposto bad
Montpelier Woman Had Been 111 for
' T.ong Time with Cancer.
Mrs. Abbie May (Corse) Russell, wife
of Merrill Russell of Montpelier, died at
7:30 this morning at her home, 1(13 State
street, after a long illness with a cancer
which had confined her to the lied for the
past six months.
Mrs. Russell was born in Montgomery
on Oct. 4. IS.5, Iwing tlie daughter of
Jeliial and Miner a Corse. She was niar-
Miss Mary Bishop, Miss Ida M. Carusi
and Miss Loraine Loranger to End - -Courses
in That Order
Next June.
On the closing day of the winter term
of school Principal H. If. Jackson of
Spaulding high school to-day announced
the honor students in the class of lf16
and to-day also the assignments for
class day exercises were made public.
Miss Mary Bishop won the first honor,
her percentage being 05.7. Miss Ida M.
Carusi was second w ith a percentage of
04.4 and Miss Loraine H. C. Loranger
was third with a percentage of 94.03. It
is expected that a class of 53 will be
graduated next Junl.
Class Day Program.
The class day program is as follows:
Address of welcome Cvril Marrion
'lass history Elizabeth Skinner
lass ode. ,. Mavis Barnett
fus ic Sen ior chorus
Class will D. Winnifred Smith
Class prophecy
.Edmund Loranger and Ruie Angell
Essay (third honor) .. .Loraine Loranger
'resentation to school. . . . Wendelin Beck
Address to graduating class
mona Oneill
Music Senior chorus
DIED OF PNEUMONIA.
Marion Cook of Washington Had Been
111 a Day.
Miss Marion Elizabeth Cook, daughter
of Walter M. and Elizabeth E. Cook of
Washington, died last evening at 8:10
o clock of pneumonia. The girl had been
ill only 24 hours. Her age was nine
vears and four months. Funeral services
will be held from the Universalist church
at Washington Saturday afternoon at
1:30 o'clock, Rev. Mr. Weller officiating.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Susan Parks of PluinliclJ arrived
in the citv to-dav for an extended visit
at the home of Harry S. Parks of King
street.
Wa viand Hamel. a student at Spauhl
ing high school, left to-dav for Plain-
field, where- he will spend tlie Easter
vacation at the home of his parents.
All deputy sheriffs in Barre and vicin
ity are asked to join with the county
sheriffs' a-enciation in attending the fu
neral of John Tuttle. formerly chief of
police in Montpelier, which is to lie held
at the capital Saturday afternoon. The
deputies are requested to meet in the
Washington county courthouse at 1
o'clock.
Ernest Lawlis. son of Mr. and Mr
ried in Montgomery on Xov. 4. 174. to
Mr. Kussell. who was then residing m!,vin I.awlis of Kirk street, left the
St. Johnsburv. They resided in St.rjtv .,Xf. this forenoon for Xew Haven.
Johnsbury for five years and then came (Vinn . where be has mhiic.I employment
to Montpelier. where they had lived ever jn an arms factory. Mr. I-aliss was
since. One child, Ittie Mav, was born i-raduated from Spaulding Itivrii whc-ol in
that thev might expect the public should,0 them but be died at the age of 13, ,.., H,. i, one of sc. era I your.-;
accord them the right to he successful I " Mr- Musse l leaves, besides her ! m.n w ho have found employment In the
nusonnii. .wo i.r.unt-.. ... ii. v.ise m munitions plants oi .n;sm-iui-.-i is iii
hresno. I at., and Setn . orse, lormer- , Connecticut.
redeem a large farm area in Windham
county. Mr. Abbott was his choice and
within a year after he entered upon his
duties, the farm was transformed. Lat
terly Mr. Abbott has engaged in con
tracting in Wilmington. He is 25 years
old and married.
Choice of an agent was reached at a
meeting of the executive committee when
it was also decided that the county agent
is to make his headquarters in Barre,
owing to its central location in the coun
ty and the fact that all towns in the
bureau are easy of access from this city.
Mr. Abbott plans to move his family to
Barre as soon as he can obtain living
quarters here.
Outside the city yesterday, so most of
the farmers who came to the meeting
reported, the weather was wholly un
favorable to travel, but the attendance,
nevertheless, was gratifyingly represen
tative. Practically every town in the
county was represented as well as most
of the granges. A number of towns un
represented in the meeting last week
saw to it that at least one member of .
their farming population was present.
Frank C. Bancroft of Barre Town pre
sided and F. G. Howland acted as secre
tary. Thomas Bradlee of Burlington,
who is at the head of the extension serv
ice of the stat college of agriculture,
and his assistant, J. Coryell, were pres
ent. Both aided materially in casting,
light upon some of the new problems"
that confronted the bureau in its work.
Especially active was Mr. Bradlee. who
has been present at all three meetings
in Barre, and whose service to the bu
reau cannot be over-estimated. Much of
the time was taken up with examining
two 'candidates. As at the previous ex
amination of candidates each was thor
oughly questioned about his idea of
county work. In this connection it may
be stated that the successful candidate
plans to use his automobile much of the
time in going about the county w-hen
attending demonstrations ' and confer
ences. j part ot. the maintenance ex
pense is to be borne by the farm bureau.
One of the first moves made was in the
direction of making permanent the or
ganization as effected, when the farmer
first assembled in B.trre in February,
1015. F. C. Bancroft was elected presi
dent. D. R. Bisbee of Wnitsfield vice
president and F. G. Howland secretary.
The officers are to continue in their sev
eral positions until the annual election
of officers on the tirst Saturday in June.
The following executive committee
was elected: Messrs. Bancroft, Bisbee
and Howland. ex-officio, and C. A. Bad
ger of East Montpelier. O. F. Barrett of
abot, Mark Moody of Vtaterburv. B. A.
Denny of Xorthlield and H. .1. Dodge of
Berlin. A tentative constitution and
set of by-laws, sulijiiitted by the officers
or consideration, nm rarinen unani
mously. ne oi me nrsi oincial acts or
he bureau was to signify its desire to
unite with many other agricultural or
ganizations, chambers of commerce ami
boards of tr.nle in Xew Kngland in pro
testing against the proposal of the rail
roads to charge double farts for stock
thst is being transported to shows, fairs
and exhibits.
GETS COLLEGE APPOINTMENT.
- f t: nine .rir iiikikh v. 1 HiifiiiT lT ion . . . . . , . n . i i i ,
Gen. Joseph Simeon , , ... . there be went direc t to Galeana." nens house. Praise should be given when
f . , tsHl v. the states attorney who has rm-, . ..,,. , ., iiL .
of war. has resigned , , - ' , . . . ' . t This is the first prisoner known to have due and bv the same token, censure ap-
wu - . , , ploved detective at lwtn, will continue , , , ' . . 1
t It n anil f.en I hlMM r - Imwii t-anfiiri..! Bin.v til' m l II. 1 ,r.l,...l n hi.ra r,t wMitm u hAnMaapi- I ..p
FRENCH HOLD LE MORT HOMME.
ARRIVES BY BOX CAR.
considerable money jnt before death and
n. Claim Pot Forth Bv bmin. "I I " - -
' I Bd nave not oeen heard or since.
March 15.
Washington. D. C, March 17. The
French erutasy last night made public
the follow imr aldegrm t'rini the French
general headquarters:
Consul Williams Who Fled from Tor
reon is at Laredo, Texas.
plied where criticism is neceosarv. Cor
porations, said the fpeaker. are only col-I.H-tions
of human being, and are not infallible.
Special Meeting.
Special meeting of lumpers, boxers and
The German statement ct March 15 ter. Per vrd.r Rec Sec.
IjirMi. Tct Minh ! TTavrlinir th demrknien will be tieKJ In Simi.ini
Clerks' Notice. "ntire l,.timi in Kit car. Consul l' A. l.lo,A room B. Saturday. Murh m ..r
Tbere will be a rejnilur ireiting of ti Williams and . other American ar- .the p.ire of balloting on intern.it iopsI
R. C I. V. local 241. f'ri isv. Murrh rived here late Tetrnisv from Torreon. i committee. lUllot Iwx opn from II
17, t Tr-t4' p. m. Don't foipet to regis- having left the MeXirsn city, they mi.!, a. m. to p. m. All memlwr are re-
Arthur B. King to Be Assistant to Pres.
Thomas of Middlebury.
Middlebury, March 17. The tni-tee
of Muldleburv c. Ih-ve have apiiointe.1 an
ly of Montpelier and now located at Col- To-dav being St. Patrick's day. 1-p.s: iil as-istant to President Thomas. Arthur
legeport. Tex. She w as a member of the mTvicrs wrre held in St. Monn ag chim i. B. King, now instructor in Itin in tin
Mef!io.lit church, having joined when this nmrning t oYlix k. the parish Huntington s h.d. FWton. Mr. King
she was 15 years of age. and she was priest. Bev. P. M. M.-Kentia. officiating i a graduate of Middlebury in the !
for a time a member of the Xew Eng- at the mas. Apart from it religious ob- of XO'.l. W hin he was in college he was
land (ir.ler of Prot.s tion. M rvnce one of the saint's daj s in t h. ' a leader in athletic. U'ing captain .f
The funeral will bel l from the Ru- Boman ntholic cahnlar. Irisi. p.s pi- t'.e football t.m dnrine I, is . i,.r yesr.
sell residence Monday aftern.vin st I !and de-ndnt of Knn in lUrre ace.rd- He was aio president ..( the college V. M.
o'clock. F.ev. William Sliaw efTiciating. el the onasi n 1 tt'e more than the cus- A.. nd i'tcd at Camp Almski dur
nd the remains will I placed in the fomsry attention. The presentation of , irg his summer v-at ion. Mr. Kinpwiil
tomb at Green Mount cem.terr until, "The I-1c of Smile" unl.r the ausj.K.-s be .hare- of ..me if the general cr-
r.f the U be t'.e Itiiwrnisns m te r.-sjsn.l. ncr oi .i.e coll.xe and n-:.e.
spring.
r,tr no.!1 ii n.-;... oi iw in . e rs- - ....'v iimh ih.-i hi s--.ii.-
becans they were coninc.J it was the ie?ted t attend. Per order secretary. iUy.
Mr. Wii;im C'.rrieTin of a-).iton tar of an J-rviinc inam I. C- present datie. Mr. km; i mrti.i and
.. ..... . ; I 1 '1 ... 1 I I. in ft., f. ,,l
was tusin visn.tr in this nir to- ro . i i.m. ... .-i u. , . - ... ... . . ,,.,-
P1re k"s rrsrht -rie)t on usually bt'ei. tn 1 1 in te r.er If. pbnrn iii:.
