r-iv.v u. v i "a-ei.TWMu f .v
JAPANESE NEW YEAR CARDS.
Quaint symbolism used by the enterprising
advertiser in the Orient. The
' cards and story
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
THE WEATHER FORE
Rain to-day; fair to-morrow
colder.
Highest temperature yeste
Detailed weather, mall and mar
CAST.
pun.
SoWouch
VOI;. LXXXIII. NO. 133.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1916. Copyright. by the Sun Printing and PublUhlng Aoclallon.
PRICE?
trwo. CENTS.
LETTER RISES
UP TO PLAGUE
BRYAN TOO
Xoliiibkii" Said One Term
Plank Was Merely an Ex
pression of Policy.
WLSOWS XOTK IX 1913
TO PA Ul Kit A SURMISE
Moose Gather to Plan
Stampede for Colonel;
Perkins Assails Wilson
If National Committee Decides To-day to Hold Con
vention at Same Time as Republican the Roose
velt Boom Will Be Launched.
DOGS TO SMELL OUT 'PLAN WORLD WAR
GAME FROM SOUTH
Prominent Persons, Unwitting
Violators of Lnw, Pay
Many Fines.
ON GERMAN TRADE
HritiMli Call I'pon Allies to
Join in Crushing All
Teuton Commerce.
NEW SLOGAN: 'SAVE NATION FROM DISHONOR'
TWO WOMEN OFFENDERS
"Diamond .Tim'' Brady's Man
Caught With Squirrel in '
Close Season Here.
COMMONS TAKES ACTION
rivMlt'nt Said He Would
Let Parly and People
Deride on Candidacy.
To Control Coal and Oil Is One
Object America as
Competitor.
Germany Agrees to U. S. j BRITISH RELIEF
Demand for Disavowal FORCE FIGHTS
of Lusitanta Sinking1 HARD BATTLE
Lansing and Von Bernstorff Reach an Agreement, London Admits That Troops
Which Was Sent to Berlin for Approval Settlement , at Kut-el-Aniara Are
of the Controversy Is Expected This Week. I jn i)jrC Straits.
Chicago, Jan. 10. Holding-options on. encountered ome opposition from two
ILLEGALITY ADMITTED IN ACT OF REPRISAL; UMy srKHOUXDKD,
COXSTA XT 1 XOPLE SAYS
S00 Chicago hotel room, the Florentine
room at the Congress, the Auditorium
Theatre and Orchestra Hall for the uma
week In which the Itepubllcan national
convention In In h. htdil hern In June.
I friends of Col. Kooievelt, headed by
, George W. Perkins, flocked to Chicago
j to-day from all parts of the country.
! Among the visitors were members ofi
the Progressive National Committee,
which meets to-morrow to prepare the
call for the Ilull Moose national con
vention. If the committee Axes the
same date fo? the convention the Re
publicans did, which Is considered a
foregone conclusion to-night, then the
options will be closed and the contracts
signed for the several headquarters.
A further significance In the grabbing
of the headquarters waa the official an
nouncement that Col. Hoosevelt would
Hold himself In readiness to come to
Chicago at the time of the two conven.
opposing factions on the committee.
One represents the "statu! pai
When Happy Hoots Wilson, ngro,
stepped out of n special car In the Petin-
WAmiiNcrro.v, .lun. 10. l-'ormai set
tlement of the I.iislt.iiiln controversy
probably will le reached before the
end of the prevent week. All that re-
SpKlal Cable l)fpntch foTns Sin
l.t.v.. ...Inn. i Pi .-t-.yl. illrect i
nioe for i world war ,-ignlnst (lei man
IriiiL. U'Bu nl.n It. li,t IfnilUM (if Colli-
mons vestenh.v when resolution mil-, maln U for ,he IJ"" Korean Office
Moosers, who want to have nothing In rylvanla Station yesterday ho was ar
ccttnon with the Itcpublleain and wisn .slw, f(1P hnvn(r n n,, possesion
to carry on the fight Independently. This
faction .t.mm.,1. ih,.i il. convention be "ne "lUlrret. He was no more sur-
held before cither the Itepulillcun or prison, However, tniui was ins bmipiuci, ; ,n f()r ()l f 0K,r:,m f nn the Hritlsh lu "PProvo a tentative unuersiniiuiiig
Democratic convention and put a blown, Diamond j, Hrndy, and Mr. Hrady flomlnlon. mid the Allies of Orcut Hrlt-. reached to-day at a conference be-
in tile uotlle tirand or Moose uciiei no, .., ...... M,nr nmoulshed than a score . ., .i ,.,. ,......., , u,. , .i
..ill 111 l II 1 71 KlfS.IIUIl- i:mi v.t,r .......... , .ii..a,j i .inn; i.aiiniMii ".
i division, The resolution, Count von liernstorff, the (lerman
Another faction which crossed swords f other prominent New Yorker who whout
Wamonoton, Jan. 10. A letter fully
li ,tonltnng ns tho letter from I'resl
r,t Wilson to A. Mitchell Talmer.
tolJInt; iisalnft the application of the
m'r'l trm I''3"! to himself. Is one
xrltten by William Jennings Uryan on
ts-t wine topic and to the same gen-
"pic'"deiit Wilson's olltlcal advisers
npect to use this letter against Mr.
Pnaii If the Utter, us has been Intl
nutfl. seeks to make any Issue of a
irrni fur Mr. Wilson.
As ihe utter l a private out- u piuiu i tions. He is going to ine viesi inoies
he (.htalned for publrVatUiu. where Mr. Iloosevelt will seek recuper-
Ti.t letter was written by Mr. nryan utlon from her Illness, but he will be
bjtk In 1" 1 3 when a resolution was i)act n the United States In ample time
.mi re b, fore Congress limiting the to take a fast train for Chicago If his
l'rmdin, y to a single term. Mr. Urjan friends desire his presence.
rote to .i member of Congrew thut National committeemen from a ma-
l!t one term plank was Intended merely Jorlty of the States confirmed the early
ut ii ,rf i'lnilion o pMlfcj and should goxslp that an amalgamation of the
rat bf M'uliiiif on (inv (nifii'lifunt unlfl l'rogrcHslves and Republicans Is possible
.ijilKnffoii had lirrn pnssri, and It ap- next June, even If Col. Hoosevelt Is not
pl'rt to all parties alike. nominated. Hut all agreed that the
This notwithstanding the plain word- stampeding of the Itepubllcan conclave
its of the plank which closes with the f0r the Colonel would end the defection
onl Wi- pledge, the candidate of and make ever body hilariously happy,
thk Cnetltlon to this principle." IVrklni Hellerat.
Information of this ltrvnii letter fol- Mr- '" Hellcrm.
loeil to-il.iy the makliiK public of a Mr. I'erklns. tlie acting chairman of
leller In which the President cites the . the National Committee and orten re
rule ly which lie will be KUlded In de-' ferred to as the "angel" of the party,
ruiiiiir uhetluT or not he shall run again, was somewhat guarded In his statements.
This l the way tlie President puts It: All that he would say waa that the Pro
i ..hill mnat i-heerfiillv abide by the rresslves would hold a national conven-
JuOcment of my partv and the public as tion and name a ticket. The personnel
mhfther 1 shall be a candidate for the of that ticket, it Is known, will be the
lTfldeniy aculn In 191i. I nheolutely same ns the Itepubllcan If the nominees
tfrlse iiivsrlf tu resort to notlilne but are not too "reactionary."
tuWI, opinion to decide that question." Tlie arrival of J. W. MctJralh, Col.
Hnosevelt's private secretary, in com-
hi U IMIiikiii in Hun. '..-.. .. Mr i,ruins. set all tongues
The I'resiilent'n wlIlliiKnew to run a-wagglne. Young McUrath was Hoose-
ir.iln proiiled lie Is satisfied that the velt's stenographer In 1912. Up nt Mil-
Mny nn.l the public want him Is dls- waukee the night an attempt waa made
to-M In a letter which he wiote to ex- to assassinate the Hull Moose leader
Kirresenutlve A. Mitchell Palmer of McXlrnth showed Iron nerve and devo
rnnilv.inla a few weeks before the Hon to his chief. That's one reason why
I'rf.ljfruul Inauguration .In 113. This he Is the Colonel's secretary now.
Vtlfr jI-o was written while tho rcoolu- He plunged Into the preliminary con
tort pending before Congrens to fereucrs to-day with a vim mid repre-
rn'i fie I'rcKldency to a single term In sented Hoosevelt at all of the "Inner
I oMaire with the pledge In the Haiti- circle" gatherings. He would not dts-
n. - p'li'nrm. cuse the Colonel's political ambitions.
M W Non's letter pieveiUnl the pas- one of the mo.t signincant aeeiop
ice ' Hint resolution una
t ik ,rti m.-ule ulnre lo revlv
uron1 rnor of that communication has 1 t,e ,ate t)( the Moose convention
t ri - nn ever since It whh written
Mr IMtiuer. hut the full text had not
W ni e piibll-- before.
v. te test which Mr. Wilson hai
r -,t fir himself In regard to run-
. i , . .-nn,l term his advisers con-
i It already has been fulfilled
' j ' ioth the party mid the public
h. s en s.utsf.i. tory evldeme of their
-r ' M Wilson become a candl
4.' ,ia n I'roin the President him--
H..KT. there has come no ex
I s., on t!ls point, but It Is assumed
tf Mud mi penult his advisers to ga
r 1 1 a , their plant for 1911 unless
bf -fi ii.l m ru- aitaln. The likelihood ,
l .i president will continue to
rr r.l on the question, leaving I. .
!r ,,, u to act in State conventions
,r '" , , ,,, Theodore Hudson Willis of Charleston.
' I.m. landing here now is that , ' h'0,"r , crnR.
v Jtni will er.'ountcr the op(Hi-
V .1 Hrtan In his effort to be uon. Is. or was, and may be et. not. as wie
nit.d noiwlthctnnillnn the nryan l ,ivin- .oeSi one man In a thousand, but
noerlorJ on V; leni's The one In Ave thousand
.. . .... ..ie.w tt.r Mi nn u-nti Ac. nn far nn
I. t II t lJ Hi" rt'tii. " ...
, .ituI ho will attack him on '
Steven, wealthy widow, of " . a
Place. Hrooklyn. is concerned, ror -Mrs.
Steven", who advertised last July for a
eugenic mate, in taci,
with Mr. Perkins la for amalgamation have been arrested nml nneil tne pasi
with a proviso. They Insist that the week tor bringing game blrda Into this
Moose conene subsequent to the other city from other States,
national conventions and then decide The arrests have hecii made by paine
whether or not they will suppoit the protectors of the State Conservation
Itepubllcan nominees. Commission because the open seae-on for
lint Mr. IVrliln. v.s the convention gainc birds, such as quail, pheasant.
tnilal h lipl.l llln lfl iltui- tli lleimti crouw ami tiartrltlse. closed on Decern- Hon with tho (SuwrnmrntM of the do
linn Mat innvtnp find ih.Tt is nhv the kOO her 31 nml because it l u violation of" minions In order with their nld. to
rooms have been tentatively engaged, aa tlie conservation law for residents of bring the whole economic stiength of
well as the Auditorium Theatre and the this State to bring any of these iiir.n
Orchestra Halt, here, even though the neasou Is open
Mr. Perkins in also reflecting the In many of the Southern States North
opinion of Col. Hoosivelt In this respect, Carolina, South Carolina. (Jeorla and
II.. ... ,... ..I.,,.. BvumB.-l ntVin
committeemen who think that there Is Consequently New Yorkers who have , macy Is economic, and the whjie or nt
a chance to stampede tne itepuniican gone south ror me nooiiiig a4in nave . nun Is tne economic eunjecuon tu m
convention. Mr. McCrath is working In brought back game have betn met at the country s1(. occupies," declared Mr.
harmony with Mr. Perklne to thin end, railroad statioim by game protecting ,. ..
and It June 7 lx fixed It will be con- sleuths who iwssesseil such a keen oliac-1 "rn"'
strued by Republican leaders as the t,y nse that they Immediately ills- "She wlhe to create ft gieat central
flret step In the well deteloped plan to rovered which suitcases contained dead i:mopf:ui system, nnd It must be alt.i-
nominate Hoosevelt. not In tlie Progrcs- llriij, wh izri the birds, arrested the ,hl.r , .t-m ,..rm of trading."
slve convemloii, but In the Itepubllcan ,.rsoiis and aw to It that they ap-;Ke,ntr a
which was pioposed by William A. H.
llewins, reads as follows:
That, with a Iew to Increasing the
power of the Miles In the prosecution
of the war, h' Majesty's (Invcrmnent
should enter Into Immediate consuit.i-
the empire in cooerntlon with the
Allies In a policy directed against the,
enemy.
"Tlie key to the whole (lerman dlplo-
conventlon.
When this proposition was put
nquarely up to Mr. Perkins to-day he
smiled and said :
"Most likely there will be a stampede
for him at the Progressive convention,
peured at tlie oflltes of the cnnimletdon
hire and made a tlnajiclal settlement.
Imerlcn n Ctimprlltor.
Sir Alfred Mnrlti Mond thought that
Vimuhl lo inpiireso Names. Amerlra would be a much more for
I'Mmunt! (iall.iEher. chief of the metro- mlilnble eoinpetllor of Ureal Hrltiiln tlian
Mr PrUlns waa the host nt a banquet polltan and Ixmg Island tllls!wi of the (JiTinany. which would not tie in a pn-
given lo the committeemen at the Black- comniH-slon. and Hermann Hluni. deputy ,lt)on imm(.,Uatelv after the wnr to
stone Hotel to-night and nlso was the Attoriiey-Ueneral, were loath to make . (h Vi.ori, i't), ,er prndiii'ts,
chief "keynoter." public the names of those who had been , To , -lnllt afr,l .M, kinder,
At the outset he tlenled the allecation arrested for these vlolatioim. but word i ,-ii. f'P i:iacnw. rvnlled. exnressliig '
that the Progressive party nan gone up came irnm Ainany yesieruay inai ine
the out along with the Ureeiibackent liifoniiiillon Hf.ould be available to tlie
and the Populists. He then launched public, with the comment that th viola-
into a severe arraignment of the Demo- (, Pre not regarded as real offenders,
cratlc Administration and handed a few ,ut as unfortunate folk who didn't hap-
Atnba.ador.
! That this approval will be given and
I Hint the demand Itself will be, em
, bodied In a formal note from Germany
to tho t'nlted States were confidently
predicted to-night In State t)epart-
, ment circles nnd In quarters clo.se to
the Oerman Embassy. The note. It !
! said, will tnkc tho form of a reply to
the American note to Germnny of
July L'l, 1915.
According to the draft which Count
von Hernsilorff sent to his Government
to-night Germany would give the sat
Isfactlon demanded by the United
Stntes In tho following way:
I. The Imperial flermnn nmernment
will again eipress Its deep regret mer
the killing of the tin .tmerlran men,
women and children who Inst their
Hies when the Cunard liner was tnr
peilned without warning hy a Herman
submarine,
S. It will express entire willingness to
mnks reparation fur the 111 e de
stnijed. the details of Initrmnlflf allon
and Fortress's Fall
Xear. Is Report .
FOIl THE EXPEDITION
eminent In la) lug the foundation for At
demand for Hie disavow ul by Ucrmany ,
has been, It was pointed out. that the
repiisal nndeitaken by Germany waul
Illegal. In that It mi In defiance of tl , JlUlll 1'OSltlOllS I'CIICtrUtcd
rules or ititernatioi.nl law requiring ;i
belligerent to safeguard the lives of lion- '
combatants on torpedoed merchantmen
on the high seas.
According to reliable Information ob
tained to-night Mr. Lansing and the Ala-
bass. ulor at their conference last week
leac'inl a point at which the Ambassa
dor was able to a ibmlt a lontat'vc draft vii- r'tltfts TO v 1 tf I.' h
of tho note which he wculd ndvlja hh , AJ'.U I II I IM' lo AA.Hrjll
uovernnunt tr. lend to the i. n. ion Hiaiis.
.t was nt this same conferi i'c that tne
Atnbns.(iid"jr submitted '.o Mr. Ut'islng
Germany's broad assurances for the
safeguarding of American lives In sub
marine activities In the Mediterranean.
Modified hy the President.
The draft submitted hy the Ambassa
dor Is said to have then been laid be
fore President Wilson, who returned It
to Secretary Lansing with certain modi
fications to lie used In disavowing the. (
attack. These modlflcntlont served to ,
make it clearer that while Germany still Special Cable netpateh foT Scs.
Insisted that Great Ilrltaln's actions were i.hm.hv, Jan 1". An olllcl.il lepmt
nuiVmellty ner" ""' fen out by the "
For tlie last six weeks or two months tay makes the first off Ida I admission
tlie negotiations between the Anibassa- that the llrltlsh army In Mesopotamia,
dor UnJ Mr. Lansing have practically w.,lcl rt1M drv,. u.; f0m the ap-
hinged on this question of disavowal. ,
Germany contending that as -he had Uroaches to Hagdad mid took up
jiroclaimed In her war zone necre trie stiinil at KUi-ei-.mnra, is in sun- smm..
right to sink all enemy merchant ships rc,rt rnv that n large relief force
nia'rir ' II!, "she the TIglis f.nm tho base a,
could not turn nround and admit that Ikisra has been In eontiict with n Turkish
the attack was Illegal. Count von ( army at a point nbout lift' iiiIIch below
Iternsi Jni innoren naril i pfisu.tut- ui; l.'nl.l. Annr i
(Jen. Xixon. "Ill,'' Succeeded
hy Sir 1'civy Lake as
roinmaiitler.
tu he adjusted nn a tinsls sntlsfartnry
henfrectlouiif lirejit llrltaln for Ainerh a. i to Ixilh (imernmenls.
"The meml'ir bus tqinkeii of America a, ttltl admit that the attack nn the
lint hoi to the Henubllcan Icadeis.
He declared that at no lime since the
-ltll w:ip has the nation faced such a
I serious situation as at present and that
the future welfare of the I'nlted Mtiuen
will depend largely on the leadeishlp
and the results next ear.
Mr. Perklna's Ke, note.
Mr. Perkins's speech follow In part:
"Of late we Americans have lieen
hearing a new and strange doctrine;
it Is that men can be too proud m light.
Thank God no one has lieen ble to
sa that of the Progressive party. Wo
l have made our tight . It linn been a
K i iini,i ur.i. uhiu ilaht. ami we
are gathering hern at this time with
inwcn ii i""
pell to know of the law.
There wrre two worn n on the list:
Mrs. I.. S. Thompson of '.ins Park aie
nue. who was fined SSu, and Katherlne
It. Ilarnes of M.inhasect. I.. !., who paid
125. Th moT were: Samui Hopkins,
a cotton broker . J. W. I'liller Potter of
13S Hast Plfty-rlfth street; Philip n.
Mills of 102 Kan Seventy-sixth street;
as a ilaiigi'tous commemai rival,
said, "but I i iinnot coiicel e nf that com
petition taking tile complex scientific I
and destruethe form of Germany's com
petition," Walter Itunciman. President of tlie
lloaid of Trade, who said recently that
the war ag.ilnst Germ in trade must be
continued after the peace treaty Is signed,
mid:
There ale elglis that Geiiiia'ny Is
fevllug the pressure of our blockade. Her
urson Murui. owner of the Mentiflc f00(1 sull,, ,. .leplelH. Ours are In
A n m lit I. 1 1 ;i rrilil Willi-til nf . 1
il no uttempt mcntu of the iUy wan the open work of ( nothing to itshainetl of, tr
viv It. The. i unrbiii. tn sh.ilf of Jun 7 an -
uiik-atlon linn ' lu nf th Moone convention. He' Cantinurtt on Fourth i'.io.
EUGENIC ROMANCE
MEETS WITH HITCH
Mrs. Stevens's Wooer. Ticked
From .VHH), Still Wnits
to Mnrry Her.
COURT STOPS TRADE
IN SPURIOUS CURES
Supremo Tribunal
.Inirricnn: lir. P. Harold Williams of
Katonah, N. Y, : V. H. Cook of 101
Park avuiue. who had lenlsou, and
who paid I2."i. A. Wright Po-l of 2
Hector strvi't, who was also Mned f 2.' ,
Arthur Iselhi nf William Iselln Co.,
3..T 1'ourth avi niie. fliMd 155 for l'lng
Ing in a Wilson snip" .1. 1 Mm ley of
SC'l llriM-lwai ; .1. S, .Inilse of 13 West
KlKhty-seienth slivel . Alfred M Cuts
of I Hast Klghl-tlrst strn-t. nnd A. C.
rterolzhtimrr of S'T Hro.nl way.
I
t Intent li Vlolnte l.ntr.
Chief Galligliei expHlneil the situa
tion by s,i log .
"These men ami women got the mini
mum because there wa no intent to vio
la t the law. The usual penalty Is fd
for the liolatlon ami J2j for each bird
seized, but these violators, nil citizens
. . . of good repute, didn't know the liw.
I pllOIIIS The game laws ale lax In the Southern
Federal Aft esirilillllljj MlOll jand when our protectors made the'e
seizures nrd the unwitting offenders
Interstate rolllllierCO. appeared before us or s lit their law-
wrs, we potmen in a rct'iii ovi-isnm in
crearll.
"When peace Is concluded It must be
made .iear Hint we will not permit the
economic war which Germany would
wagi .iK.iliuq oun-clves and our nllles
We shoii'd not be prrpued to wait for
the end of tlie war 1,,'fore dealing with
Hie matter It has always lieen the
policy of tlie Hoard of Trade t rapture
German Hade during the war. In tlie
t.tse nf South America we hate ieel
oped trade slrue the beginning of the
..... 1.1,1..:, ii i. Vint,,, I will lie continued
after the cesaatlon nf hostllltli-s. It is tion which tile Piilted Stale has con
igreed that we must ilea tli conpera
l.usllanla was an Illegal art, hut one
which was a reprisal undertaken
gainst the unlawful actions nf (Ireat
Mrltaln In pmrlalmlng her Order In
Council nnd prnreeillng In stane nut
the nnn.enmtiatant populnllnn nf tier
man jr.
4. In reference In the demands of the
I'nlted Stales In Its note of July SI
fur assurances against a repetlllnn of
the attack on Ihe l.usltnnla. Hermann.
It Is understood, will refer In the as
urunres already ghen by her n this
score following the sinking of the
Arabic.
s.leel President' Wishes.
Mthnugh the disavowal wild to have
been agreed upon bj tlie Secretary and
the Ambassador Is not In the form orlgi
nalh demanded by tlie I'nlted States. It
Is deserllxd as meeting entirely the
wHit of Pies'.delit Wilson.
It was isilnted .tut to-iiglit III well In
formed quarters that In lew of the posl-
American Government tn ticcept tlie as
surances In tlie Arabic case. In which
Germany gave notice that she had
changed her rules to submarine com
manders In lieu nf n disavowal, but this
the I'nlted St'atrs refuted tn do
A sciiii-oflliiiil Turkish statement la
med to-day coiriilmiatis this statement,
but osseits pint lb" llrltlsh relief force
met with a snere difeat nt Sheik Said.
Ofllcial.. of the State Pepaitment are This force, the CoiistiiiitHHiite statement
sas, starteii out rioni lami-.Mi-i iiieroi,
on the Tigris, about sixty miles south of
Kut-el-Aniara.
other Constantinople ndilres quoted
oy the lierlln Overseas News Agency
confldent that with the settlement of the
l.usltatna case the whole submarine dis
pute between the l.'nlted States and the
Central Powers will be quickly adjusted.
Other Itiuraneri Prnlinlile.
Austria having met the demands of assert that the llrltlsh army at Kut-el-tlie
Culled States In the Ancona case ,mala s now surrounded bv the Turks.
- " "
nnt him lf,n nn lh hlli sus In mien that 10.000 IIHII Wele left at Kllt-el-
boats pasfengers and crews from Amerl- Ainara to ho'd Isick the Turks, while
'can ships earrlng contrnbanil and sub- inn lemnliidcr retieated southward along
Jcct tn destruction. It is believed that tho Tigris,
the other Central Powers, Turkey and Mltltat
linn of nur dominions In view of the
lmesslt nf keeping i ontrol of tin
world's coal and securing contiol of
Its oil."
Itiiiielinnii's Plnn.
Mi Ituncliunn disiared that the Hrit
Ml Hmpire would lecuperate after tho
war fasti- thin any other country.
"Then It will I- our duty," he added,
"to nld as far as we can I'raine, Itu'sla.
itnlv and our other allies. I would even
t
That Is, he Is,
Mrs. Martha
t
TV , rei.h ,ve evidences that Penio.
c .in s' the party's councils ate
m ,. a , 1 1 s for a contingency that
Co ', .-. ;he possible retirement of
t'i- 1 is iiei.t from the race, Champ
("c - lends are moving on the as
loving mate
picked Mr. Willis, a public accountant,
i.v the way. out of at least that many
l i" lemis are moving on me i,.l h-irt and
i .--a ,.. t"..t the Pnsident at the last , applicants for her hand and heart, and
ui- ,- ,, ,ceide to live up to the one I (nev were to be married on -New ears
tl
c .
T're
stejis,
Mr ,
If r
M, n
r'n
11 1
t,s.
on m
fi'
ii i
li
in i.r
".
r itit
T
rr r?
t ii i
ei j
pi ii
and r fuse to run
i, nigh, the Ilryan and the
o are now Joining hands.
1 p anon to believe tnai
Day. Hut
A reporter for Tint Sl!f who learned
of' Mrs. Stevens's selection railed last
hate been taken to bring ,,tjlt nt the handsome Colonial house
,i ,,i i, i ...... - . i.nitliusli Intent on tnaning certain
h.t ihe- are Micceedlng. t " 1 'at'""" "
,.r ,'r,,.r were rrreatlv that Theodore Huson Willis was the
man. Mrs. Stevens openen ine imin
door, but not the outer one. and Inquired
wherefore the Intrusion.
"Do ou Intend to marry Mr. Willis?"
asked the reporter through the outer
''""Well" rfcponded Mrs. Stevens Im-
.... ...i i.i ..i.....'.. vt .1.- "t. had Intended to mairy
I moc' in that direction , Ntw Year's Day. but he is sick now,
i the President's letter anu
nude tlie l,hls of several de-
s ran that the President
isions In the laBt thiee
mi innscnt to the publlca-le-ler
iv i hat when the President
Ivor he expected to recom
pile Supreme Couit which held that the add Germany nt ne iwi uun t
lor nn iii.iii ,,,u.. ,
of p olonged inerty In German.
"Hut we have the right to demand
Hulgarla, can be brought to subscribe
to these assurances, bother such as
turances will actually be aekul from
these other Powers, however, has not
been decided.
In the meantime tlie I'nlted States Is
still without the means of clearing up
the mister of the attack on the Persia,
sistently held In its correspondence within which at least one American, Pulled
Great Hrltaln regarding the Order In states Consul Hobert N. McNeely, lost
Council this country can have nn hosl-lbis life. A despatch received nt th
in -..l..rll.i,,., t., the ttntinii,nl I Uliit., I Innn rt m,.nt tii.tt.iv from Consul
that'dreat Hrltain'e. methods have been . Kebllncer nt Malta said' that while he position at
without the pale of lnlernatlon.il law. had obtained affidavits from three of shadows tin-
In the same wa officials obserie the I the surx'.vons landed there. Including
United States In Ite correspondence with Lord .Montagu, none of them was able
Germany on the J.usiiarua coniro ersy . to state more man a nenei uiai nit
vessel was torpeiloetl,
All three affidavits, it Is understood,
mei'tioned that Hie officers of tile Persia
had been on the lookout for fiibmnrlnes,
but had seen none.
.Titles, hole, however, op:cn
the belief that the entire lliitlso foico
is In Kut-cl-Ainaia. as a ietie,it south
ward by pa it of the inn) would e o
It to attack b the T111I..1, who are be
lieved to be 111 at least tlucefold silpell
tuit .
llrltlsh Positions Penetrated.
A Turkili War Oltlce stiilemeiit
l-
has not disputed the fact that the at
tack on the l.usltnnla was In the nature
of a reprisal against the Hritlsh pro
cedure. The principal contention of this Gov-
State has the right to rtgulate the
Washington. Jan. 10. Tlie Supreme bringing in of game from other States,
Court Iniided down a unanimous ie- for 10w- else count we n,- sure mat sucn
iilros were 1101 ochik i.iuen in mis
State?
clslon tn-ilay giving vitality to the food
and drugs act. The opinion upholds tne
validity of the Sherley
passed In August. 1912
PAROLE OF WILLETT IS TALKING COSTLY AS
amendment
The legislation followed a decision of
along the polic or the iirmsii imam .u
Trade to capture German trade while
the war Is still on.
in the ense of South America we
hoe since tlie wnr negau ucvriopeii n
Tlie season fm quail, grous -, par
tridge, pheasant and wild turkey down
South extends unlit March, and many
New Yorkers ate Interested, financially
the court In the ' ir. .lonusoii rancr ,) otherwise, In game ciuos anu nig
cure ease." In which the Government lost rRftteH. So we want to warn them
Its suit. In that case Justice Day con-' ,lKllnst tlie Importation Into this State
strued the food and drugs act as being 1 of ,r,B which are not now in open
I,. tnlkStllll.lllentS IIS tO I I,.,. VV'llAM Ul m.iiln nil tliese
the Ingredients ill a "cure" or medicine. I fn'cl, clear lo the violators or their trade which I hope will continue long
Allegatlors or misstatements as to tho , lawyers, a sMtlemeiit was Immediately j after the cessation of hostilities.
therapeutic or curative properiies ui me readied. uie game mm-n e -ei.ru,
mixture were then held to be not "false iaH 1)0C.n dorutnl to hospitals and chari
er fraudulent" representations within table Institutions In New York."
the meaning of the food 'and drugs act f Deputy Attorney-Gereral Hluni niblfd
such as would warrant a libel. . that the commission Is considering tlie
Congress thereupon passed the Hher- employment of dogs to sniff out tlm
lev amendment Intended to remedy tlilsiKnme which hunters brine Into the city
1. hefnro ihe court to- In eame bags, suitcases nnd valises, al-
1 v wis the first that lias come to the though tlie commission's fifteen game
s'linrenio Court under the Sherley , protectors themselves ate said to be able
I
that in the rcculeratioti or u'riram
nothing be d ne to maku Italy. France,
Z&g3v&x DELAYED UNTIL JAN. 2fcT0 SHIP TON OF FREIGHT
deal with t lis matter. 11 lias oerii 11
liirstiie Wliitmyer to Decide
Thru if Fine Must First
lie hiid.
Herman Trnile Ciuilnreil.
"llrltlsh trailers, despite the handicap
of tlie war. have workeii wonders
trade development
We have
111
mnplctely
Ci.roNH Kai.i.s. N. Y., Jan. 10 Action
In the St.ite Hoard of Parole In the
case of e-l ongressiiiaii vt men i
broken down the Geitunn inonopolles In 1 n'iypj ,v j,n order of Justice Whit
ominenileil It In his first
'.je committee of Con
K.ileil the subject and de
mi h legislation would be
il
nn plank of the Haiti-'-Hi
cads :
1 single Presidential term
ei .1 urge the adoption of an
, the Constitution making
em of the I'nlted States in
she
' "what does the lucky Mr. Willis look
like-'" continued the inquirer
"Oh, you will have to excuse me,
reviled. "I am cold,
"Do ou still Intend to marry him?;
"You misst excuse tne. I am cold,
nnd then the Inner door closed.
So there "lands the case of Theodore
Hudson Willis.
Kverybody wno reaos mc ii,""
r, -leetlori and we Pledge the..,..' udvertlsed for a bus-
of tills convention to this , .., n.,t every one knows the
band. Hut I'd
amendment and Involved the nihility nf
that enactment which ine onuri iipoeiu.
Tk. uiirrlev ametidmeiit says a ship
ment shnll Ue lieid in ne Miisiii.iimt-.. .
within the meaning 01 ine ac-i;
If Its package or label slfall bear
or contain any statement, design or
device regarding the curative or thera
peutic effect of such article or any In
gredients or substances contained
therein which is false tiud fraudulent
The libel which precipitated the pres
ent case
to detect tin
Unction.
violators with a nice dls-
VILLA KILLS HEARST AID.
myer made to-day In Hudson Kails un
til he makes a decision on the applica
tion of District Attorney Crnpi-ey for
n writ of mandamus to compel the board
to dm tlie application unless the fine
of $1,000 is paid The older is return
optical glass, il.ies. electrical apparatus
Hid cerium Clieillicais, nnu Ill's- nn'ii",-
oIIoh will not again be renewed
"The policy of Ihe Hoard of Trade Is
that there shall be no essential article
..itiier fin the aits of peace or wnr that
we cannot produce wiinui rimer vtn.n ami' III sicneneciain .hiiiu.u.v ... 1 ne
Hrltaln or tlie empire. motion for the writ or mandamus was
1 fnllv iiiuirecliite that one of the ...cued in-day.
. 1... ..1 .. ... 1 nrst necessltlis Is the linpioioutent of Assistant District Attorney Horsey
KHKllshman Lmpln, rl no rf ,,.,,,,,,,, :,,! tt.r- technical ifcgmto,, of Kings county argued that
Hunch TnUeii In Itnlil. 1 .,luc itlou of the ilslng generation. There , t,P tine Is a part of the minimum en-
T-i Ptso. Jan. 10. A message was re. is also need for linpioienients in bank- , ts.,re or a part of the Indeterminate
celled hereto ay from Madera report, 'lug. need for helping "U.i. growing ! sentence and uncollectible unless ,ii
n. ill execut i. by Villa of Pa tick flrr i. Need for putting Hie matter of forced by uiprlsonmen except t mav
,e, e. -"' .! bo ,, Kinrllsh snl.. n.llents linil Copyrights Oil H Ullieieill , ,e reillllien oy ill.- lii.n "Hi i
arose in uecemoer, mi., non, -si.., ' ," ,: .: ' ;,. .1.
the Kcknnin Maniir.icturllig roinpany or, cci wno n.is ' "" '"
llie 1,1 win,,. ........ I ..,. ...,i,., ,,u.-nei1 liv W tllhiin Itandolnli .
I'hlcaga Hhippen io wmaini. .!., in-
T,i Control ( nnl nml till.
....... nf thn white carnation and the rose , 1 ....1... 0f the statute, for they made
point out that the PresI- . " ',.1.,- ime. Mrs. Stevens told It first uiUstinnble claims for Ihe mixture.
publicly mentioned me ,,... nfleninon. Thousands, yes. 1 (Hsmlsslng the cnntentlon made on
f..n,
' nl ink or single term legls
h has lieen In the White
I he l.eiter to Mr, Palmer.
- wr'i'en In ex-lteprcsenta-1
r bv President WilBon Is ns
even hundreds, of applicants there were j t,fntf 0f tho Kckmnn Manufacturing
response m ujh,. n - t-imii"iij
.' ..,i,,; nf hollies nf "lick m-a n's Hearst. Mr. iveene was accoiiniunt mr
Alterative" The bottles were iiccom- the much, and when ilia arrested tlie, ,.Tht. ltard of Trade Is looking ahead
ninled bv a circular which described the Americans at Madera and Pearson a . uv ,,,, au thr eooperatlon of our
miiedv lis follows: month ago he sent for Ihe Hearst em. ,mlns We must see that control
"effective as a preventive for pneu- ployees. Ilecausi, of Ueene h jK.sithm )f , melliH f tho empire issch eu-
mot ." Also "We know that it has lie was taken back o the ranch o point t,rrly froin , German hnndn. We iiiuhI
mo".' .... ...in i.,i.....in.i. out to VI a and his band the location ,... ..,ri r ,i,e world's con . We
CUren nnu "... ........ , ...,,,. ,, ullnlK1,,i , ,vl'""1' " i.. , ..II "llllll piis.ili ........ ....
The Government alleged nun ineso ., T V 1 leu 1 wns Veeuini 'must secure coiiuni m me vvn, , ,, t t)lt, pirntlou of the maximum
"An regards siiii'inim mi"-. .....i sentence
foreign subsidized shipping shall no; T Krnnt tie motion illrectliig the
linin free run of our ports to tlie ills- 0:ir, , nc.t nny certain manner, he
luliantiige of our ships. hue uie war H,,, Would seriously Interfere with the
Demit Attorney-General IMwMrd G
Grltlln opposed tlie motion, saylns that
only after the board has acted Illegally
can a mandamus be sought to correct
the act
He said It had been the practice of
the board for twents years to pirole
prisoners with fines as 11 part of their
eenlencn at the expiration nf the mini
mum prison term 111x1 in inueoi me
representations 1". circulars were , in '""" '"' '" ,"' '".: :r ".. I
land, and Is said to have been emploeil
In tho Hritlsh Embassy nt Washington
at one time,
ItoprosontaMve Lewis .Makes
New Plea for (iovernment
Telephone Line.
in resp.1"- ... - -.-.. .,n,(i tliB.'"'' i e n. ii. e
neallng nllietuoux m-iunj .; , I wan .111 innn,.,.. .., 1-....,, ,,.,.1 ...
Nntonlal house, Mrs. Stevens Installed I ,hc states and not within tho powers
. .iin .vstem at first. Then came ronferred mi the Federal Government
rollers who supplemented their notes tiPr the "commerce clause" of the
Xn their knees, but to all Mrs. Stevens constitution Justice Hughes, who read
On WI'll ......,.. K....a hleW .L. .I I. ,.1,1 ll.nl II. ......
was cold uniu uw. ',T,,r .111" n .-mi,, n,
,j nn- Theodore Hudson Willis pre- power of Congress u this matter was
HEALTHIEST TOWN IN STATE.
1 ,.
"n .,.
-. t,
t it ,
t'Hi I
i h
i, n ,
r,,,.i 1 t,
I ,
n'nl ,
'1 .
U.
j
cl ,
li .
to e.,ti
re, 1.1
c nir
Mil Pai.meii: Thank you ,h nnB Theodore
'nn letter of February 3. I w card.
r, lerlstlciillv considerate of ,V n happened that Mrs. Stevens was
nv itewe with regard to ' vt,r. 111 at the time, Two trained nurses
"'ut'ni, which has Just come ' I'J ,,i,vslcian would have refused him
,e loiie to the Senate with . a",?,li. wot not Mrs. Stevens. She
"io Presidential term. Iv.uted on seeing I
the same as that upheld In the "white
slave" cases and In the lottery cases.
Justice Hughes added: "We find no
ground for saying that Congress may
not condemn the interstate tninsporta-
ie Presidential term. ' in. stcd on seeing him. so the account on of swindling preparations designed
.ml hitherto said anything. " 11,. wore n white carnation, nnd to cheat credulous sufferers and make
'Plenum because I had "ot I Mid Mrs Stevens, meant deep love. ' such preparations, accompanied by false
at ' nue was any eildence 1 "'i,1.'-time he called she was better. . and fraudulent statements. Illicit with
que
nihil whs very much Inter
' I must have been mlstnken
'is- 'lie Senate would hardly
1 si, promptly upon It.
,1 MniMer which concerns tlie
, ei ondiict of tlm great ofllco
lot es of which I am alsiut
I ri el therefore that In the
reimiktances I should not be
i.simUmiII
.,11,
n" "" "... 1 ...1 1.. a.
He woro a white rose. an.. ...ii
parte.l reluctantly, as loters do. he. gen ly
'Hced lb- white Mower on her shoulder
ami Cupid's work waa done. Mrs. Stevens
realized that Ihelr nrtlstlc natures wero
In complete hatinon'. Theodore Hudson
Willi" was her eugenic male, that's all.
Mrs. Stevens's first husband died three
I.,,,,., .. . ,.n lin wns fm in-
with my Ideals wWimm . - B,.v.n. ha. on.
tenor u.-.
son, an artlit.
0.1 nwlh Page.
Only the Verj Old Srrm to lite In
North lleniislritil.
North Hempstead, I,. I where Will
lam K. Vandorbllt, Jr., Mrs, O. II. P.
Belmont. Payne Whitney, Howard
Gould, Clarence II, Mackay and other
prominent New Yorkers live. Is the
healthiest town In the State, according
to tlie annual repoit of Dr. ,1, II, IJo
gert. health olllcer.
While the population Is more than
23,000, there has been only 1119 deaths
...... 1 ,i. .... ... 1 . t,iu I. r .
. .. ...... ... 1, r OUril K Hie ..en,. linn ,i.,in,n.,
respect m iiiiers,, ,.- .1.1,1,, .. nn we,, f,n ,,, ,
as, for example, lottery tickets, I sn and 1 was 1 01
"ConKress recognlz..d that there must , h(( ,,, ,,,., rl(p f h , w1()
to curative effect are In no sense
expression of opinion, hut constitute ah
solute falsehoods and 111 tne nature or
the case can he deemed tn have been
niado with fraudulent purposes. The
amendment of 1912 applies to this field
and we IJive no ihjubt of its validity."
is nn we must do everything in "'ir 1 ,-nndiict of the prison s stem. AT. hopes
power to destroy German finance, credit fnr prisoners serving minimum sen
nnd trade. ' tence would be gone and the Incentive
"The motion which the 1 louse of Corn- 0f Bood conduct by prisoners would he
mons Is dlsvusslm; to-day lias ploughid , killed, Mr. Grlllln asserted,
fruitful soul. It will show the enemy
KViu" wmniilg I' witr?" "'" WIRELESS LINKS TWO OCEANS.
many does not 'have the opportunity of
Washington'. Jan. 10 rtepiesenta-
tlie David .1. Lewis of Maryland, an
authority on parcel post, telephone nnd
telegraph rates, delivered a speech In the
House to-day III which lie reiterated h!s
nigumenls for Government ownership of
the telegraph and telephone sj stems of
the country and all other means of com
numlcatloii He urged that these
agencies be condemned and purclinsed
by the rjovei nment nml opcinied as a
bureau of the cost ottice Department.
"It costs the Ameilc.in as much to
ship Ins long distance com creation 01 er
the wire-, mile for mile, as it costs him
to ship a ton of freluht over the rails."
said Mr l.nns "The railroads set on
the aieiage seiei, mills n mile for mm
lng a ton of freight The telephone
company charges six mills 11 mile for
carrying a thrcn minute convei s ill, ,11,
Gentlemen 11111.1 reall'.e how weighty
their cnnveisations sometimes are. They
weigh about a "111 011 tlie long illstam e
wires."
Mr. Lewis said til it the hepeilts dc
rhed from the pared post s stem would
be duplicated b the "postallatlon" of
the telegraph and telephone si'siems.
"Ill l!i2, the year before the panel
pot, the express companies carried 317..
rolii.onn packages. Tint represented
their total trallle fur the year It was
III. nut lluee packages per capita, foi
which the express companies received
an average rate of f.11 cents per package
In 1013 these companies curled 2MV.
JWiO.nno pieces nt 2 cents, apiece and
tho parcel post carried tnn.niio.nnn pack
ages nt l I cents apiece, eniiiiilntr oiilv
packages of a pound or nunc In three
years tile total trnlllc leaped from 31",
OOrt.onn packages to "OO.OOO.iion puck-
reorganizing her commercial system lie
fore our trade has Is'gim lo How In ever
Increasing volume: to see that Germany
has 110 chance to reconstiuct her war I
machinery-
tnn.i.rr ... ,..,. fo.( ,,, , ( n
Wasiiinuton. Jan. 10. Sectotary ofinled this seivlce because It was falsely
tlm Navy Daniels announced this after-, asserted that the Post (ltlb-e wns put
noon that for the first time a wireless 1 eflliicnt enough 10 do the woik nf 1 1 1 .
message had been successfully trans. , express companies. This false Iheoi
.,ittil from ri naval vessel In the At- ! bus been exnlodeil."
Ph. ilnllu .Villi refuses to accept the . t,. ,, 1,1 Hie Paclth Mi- I .owls conteniled that Ip1..i,Iii.ma
stiiteinent of Mr. Huneliiiati reganllng The experiment wns successfully ti led 1 rales In tills coiinti) are much higher
tho salular effect of lite blockade on n)imli 4 ;:in thin morning when the li.it- ' than In Kiirope, nhein this means of
Germany and Aiistiia-. it rears man 11 t tieshlp W yonilng, olr Cape llenr, n ' enniinuhlcatlon s operated hy Govein
belongs lo the same class of statements . exohatiged messagci with Admiral Cam- incuts. lie Insisted that telephones
,"" '" , ll.'J-l a thousand, The rate, nf the State premier Asqulth's denial of Ihe shell Pr0 Melt. W'tiislow, commander in chief could bo operated al a cost nf one cent
. .k 1 was about 14 a thousand, The number 1 shortage lie fore It was disclosed, and f tho Pacific fleet, on board tlm cruiser . a call and yield a good prom
He ah- hlrttis til lillfi was 4811. There una , V..7. i.lil-. ,l T.e,l ll,.l..,, , I, . .. 11 1., nv,,,nu l....e ,v,.,i I ' .
of births III IK IB was 483, There wns 1 winston ChuuiilU's and Lord Hobert
only one suicide during the year, .Cecil's assurances of victory 111 the Dar-
The paper says 11 can nring
For nourishing diet in Erlppe or sore Ihrnst
use llorhck's M sited Milk. Avwd sunMltutss.
Adv. .
ilimclles.
forwaril facts on the situation which will
be prlnteJ within a lowoaye.
San Diego in Uuaymas harbor, west
coast of Mexico. The messages were
easily deciphered. Hy air line liuavnias
Is approximately 1,000 miles from Cape
Henry.
IIKM.KAIIl ,M ST. rr.TKItsllt Kli
2 hours ipilckesi time, iinlv Ihi" w lih Itimurh
Piillmaii vrvlce. A 1 1 n nt I- I'nsm 1,1ns Ail
rinrlda Mesorts reached Oltlce, llS H'wsy,
sued to-night icporis that the Turks
have penetrated to Hie llrltlsh uiaiJi
1 lit - 1-Aiiiara and lor
earl) ,-alittlle nf tile for
ties;. The statement follows
The Turks ari closely Investing ut-el-Ainaia.
The) have iilread) vein -tnit-d
in Hie III li 1 -1 1 main jioMitintis.
It Is l.nped that the fortrtes will soon
I... stoiui'd or III it the i-neiii fo cos,
niimbei lng lo.Oon men. will m lender
through starvation
The Ilrit i.-O tlmiigiit Ii) leaving these
fnrcts In Kut --l-. i.i.i 1 .1 . to Kunaiitce
the ilefelii-i 11' Hn t,.wn a d tn as
sine the .iiiltilx .itient of the test of
the ami), nl.l.di is nt pit-sent a long
way seilthea-.t id K ill l-A111.11 .1 and
i-iitinot -o tn Its help, especially as Its
n 11 morale Is shaki 11
A Violent battle Is believed to be ill
plogiess bctwi n the i'uiks and tl4
Hrltish relief t-n e in the Sheik Said
region, us ihe Hrlltsh uie evpei ted tb
try at all m-is in lm.il. the Turkish
iesst ukc and go tn the nld of th- hald
tircssed f. .-.- ,11 Kilt" l-Atiiar.i
The seml-oillc al Turkish stntenient
telling of the llllll. il pli.is,' of tills bat
tle follows
On the Irak f 1 out the enemy, whose
stiength Is e-tlin.ili il at mie division,
which was Mali, on il lit 1 ,1 ml- II
Ghevbl. 111 m tie, to loine tn the 1 es
die at Km-i-l-Ainai.i. on laiiuai) (
ami I. uinler the protection of fmir
gunboats, attacked 0111 positions at
Sheik Said, but was lepulscd by our
countii- att.uk. We made smile pris.
onus. The enemy losses ale esti
mated at ,1,0011 The enemy i-avalr)
suflend r specially seveie losses
1 .1 Austen Chamher'.ilu, M-irelaiy of
Mate foi India, gale the Hini-e nf Com
mons this afteinnoii an ne, mint nf th
tlghtliig bet w 1 en .I.11111. ny T nml !, quol
lng from tne otllcial lepoit nf the Mesn
putamia nperatlnns lecivi'd b) the War
Oltlce
eit llesoioliiiiiliiii I'noioiniiiler,
Ml Chamberlain aniioiiiued slniul
taiieinisl) thai Mi I'e.-e) Lake has been
.ipiui'med to sin ceeil Gi 11 Sir John
Nimiii as ciniiinaiiitet in Inef nf the
lllltbll fines M Mc-opotailila, Hie lat
ler having been "1 ouipi lied b) Illness"
to letlllll holll"
The 11III1 lat lepm t follow -(ii
11 Ailiior bif lainl-Ali-'lerbl
.lanii.it) ii w ith , tiniips marililng to
tlie ,,'lief of Kut-ii-Aiuar.i on the
same day Gen Townsbitnl, nt Kut.
repotted that tlie nev Ions night Hie
enemy li.nl opiiiiil 1 lieav lire oil Ihe
iiuilhwest front and in the village
uppiis,;,- Kut. hut had m.ele no allacl.
On Hie night nf .I.11111. .r 1 1 1 n. Avlmer
i-epnitcil lieu) tiling on til" soiiUi
haul: ot the Tig' is
01, the tight haul. Gen Campbells
minimi i.illlcil Ihe eiietui ' position,
taking two guns ,iul Ton inisoue,..
ami thin intietniieil. Me.iuw Idle Ihe
ma 111 attack on llie left bank was ie
tallied li) nil elletllV nllHIallklllg move
mint, and Gin Avlmer reported that
be appal'-nlh w is oppis-od bv Hires
Turkish divisions
on the evening of January x he re
polled that owing in fatigue the Hoops
ii.nl been unable to make any progress
that day. On Ihe S1I1 be leported the
enemy In ielre.it and that h" was pin
suing, but thai heavy nuns hindered
Ihe pursuit
I'Yoni latei iilegiams it appears
that Ihe eneniv has readied Khora.
Sigulil'-ani is tat. 11 hid In military
liicles hcie to the last sentence of Sec
retai cimmbei lam's statement, saying
that t lie Turku "h.iic reached Khor? "
3V
