FINANCIAL EDITION
Cuenmn
Bleftger
iff NTirSMT
MIGHT
EXTRA.
EXTRA
VOL. XL NO. 10'J
PlLILADJULl'IIIA, TUESDAY, JAXUAHY 1 I, 15)10.
CortitinitT. 1010. t tin Pcstto Limu Courixt.
PRICE ONJiJ CHSiTT
RELIEF COLUMN
SMILES FROM
TROOPSAT KUT
Tigris Campaign Follows
Gallipoli as Source of
British Anxiety
BIG BATTLE PENDING
Latlh Hegemony of Adriatic
Menaced by Teutons'
Coastal Campaign
the
LONDON, Jnn. 11. One of
columns of the Ilritish relief expedition
In Mesopotamia, sent, irom imam aim
TO THE CITIZENS OF AMERICA
THROUGH THE EVENING LEDGER
The' present wave of prosperity which hns gripped the United States
irom east to west nnd from north to south is unparnlled in the history of
We are hearing of it from every side. Since we visited your great
country we see the evidence of it on every hand.
WnflMlttV C tat m I. at aL!u ... II ! Mil . a
i . VV ,R iuiimura, uciciuiiK out unpicss ingots ot StCOIi Kiulronus-
wiAuu nir oeyond capacity, Myriads or ships, leaving your ports laden to
tllC Waters Ollpp with ihn nrrwllliTO nf finbl f.irnnu .....I 1..
.. -""-, "", - !'" w . bint IUI.I.41V.- .llivi IUUI1I. ,1
I i 7 pranarics, bursting with unheard of quantities of grain. Cotton 1
" ih: muuninin nign. tour oanKs cnoKctl with a plethora of gold
which is being increased by millions of dollnrs by nlmost every steamship
that touches your shores.
Your laborers nil employed at good wages.
Tho republics of South America waiting their turn at your nvenues
oi commerce, till you can supply their hundred necessities.
And peace within your borders at peace with all tho nations of the
world.
What more can n nation desire?
Wccongratulatc you. ERNESTO QUESADA,
Chairman Argentine D elegation.
1 LOVE HIM NOW,' CRIES
GIRL AFTER LOVELORN
rS-Ar hi:True::;!-;,if; doctor tries suicide
six miles of Kut-cl-Amara, it was oili- .
dally announced in Commons today by , Pretty Miss Rose Beck Rc-
j. Austen Cliamucrla.n. Secretary oi , snondg to Sujtol.'g Affections
fe Slate for India.
Mr. Chamberlain's statement lot- ,
"tans.
"British cavalry lias loc-ycd the
enemy six nines easi in ivm-ci-
E jimnrn."
pi' line tOrCROIHg lllllluni.i:iiii:iii. inui-
JK.catcd that the Turks have fallen back
El -I l lit mitita mi tin anfltllnrtt bntib '
. S.OOUV 1U llllivo w in. .!..... .. ...,,,.
Kof the Tigris before the advance of the
biSrlUSIl llirtcs unui-i vii-iii-itii iiiiiuvii.
p LONDON. Jim. 11. '
ir N'ot since Hie Boers surrounded ft Hill- ,
illh fprce nt l.auyaiiiitu nns 11 iiimsii
r.rmv faced n Blnillnr peril. For Hint rea-
k ion news of tlio progress "f the relief
(ipcdltlon la nemg nwniicii wmi me
fict nnxlcty. If not nlnrni.
" The latest dispatches Indicated .Unit the
relief foiccs, under i.ciierni .yimcr imu
Central Campbell, were at grips wltli tlio ,
Turks In Iho bend' of tho Tlgils, e,ist of '
Kut-el-Ainnrn, ,
Though details lire utmost completely
lacking, It Is believed here that Jhe Turks i
encircled the British light nt Kul-cl-Amnrn,
throwing a strong force between I
tho garrison nnd the river Tigris. Con
stantinople reported such nn enveloping i
movement In progicss n week ngo. If '
this la true tho relief expedition must I
tight its way cant wind llitougli tlil.i force I
to save the- garrison from capture. I
With Kut-el-Amara ns lis centre a Rreat
battle Is In progress between British nnd
Turkish troops In Mesopotamia not far
from tho site of tho original Clnrdcn of
Eden.
Tho latCBt official dlspntches from Sir
Percy Lake, the now cominaniter of the
i.iJJrltlsh troops In the Persian Gulf sphero
i of operations, stated'that the relief forces
marching to succor Ililtlsh troons bo-
ii leged. thcro were, advancing.
ij AbouKCHCOO Turka nro opposing the nil-
:,vance or.-lho relief column up tho Tigris
I" VaIIa,' n,1.l ((K.l.n.. .IIMIniilll.. 1...... V.
TU..IJ, 11V4 IUIIIICI UllllbUIUlfl JMltU UCUU
placed In tho way of the English by tor
rential midwinter rnlns which havo flood
ed tho Tlfirls River.
Great hordes of Mohammedan tribes
men havo Joined tho Turkn. some of them
wmlng1 fiom Persia, hut the Ktisllah nio
t. well supplied with artillery and iniichlua
t'tiias. Instruments of war which the Turks
.nave In men pre nupiucrs.
General Townsjicnd, cnmmunillnR tho
British forcos in Kut-el-Amara, reported
Jr1 tireless to General Aylmer Hint tho
Turlis were carrying on n violent bom
bardment of tho town nnd that help was
Seeded at once,
The ftghtlnff between Imam Allgharbl,
from which place the' relief column set
ut. and El Own has been extremely
T'olent, and severe losses have been In
flicted. Tho Rrentest difficulty is bolnR
experienced In carlui; for the wounded
M the. hospital boats are niled to over-
'uniii.
After leaving Imam lllrluirhl tlio rur
column was split, part of iho forces nnrlni-
JCeneral Campbell roIiir to the south side
ma nve
India Olllce otllclals Inilnv vlmv,i fi,.
lituatlon hopefully, Kut-el-Amara un
doubtedly Is nrovlslmipil uitfnln.itl,. in
.!Ith8tand a lnni- ulprm ti,m, ..1.1 ...... ..
. ? U,V na a ,)a!,e for tno cnmpalsn
I ' (Ob-uuil,
I
After Latter Is Tnkcn
to Hospital
WILLING TO MARRY HIM
KOSE BECK-
A joAiniie' to "the threshold 5 tioareat
Bcyoiftr," a he penned In an Impassioned
farewell noto to tho Rlrl he loved, won a
bildo for Dr. John Ivlrby, 27 years old, a
yoiinir VlrRiiilnn, who tried to commit
sulcldo early today In his room nt 733
Green street, nftcr tho double blow of
rejection nnd u "poison pen" letter.
The love which was denied hlni has
llamed up In tho heart of pretty 18-ycnr-ohl
Kose Beck, of 1218 North Howard
street, because of his lovo "In life and In
death," Jler hcartstrlnRs were touched
by the tragedy of his lovo which sent him
near to death, and now she saya sho'll
marry him when1 he-recovers.
Tho youiiR man was found In his room
this inornhiR by Charles Sterner, with
whom he boarded, unconscious from II
lumlnntliiR bus. Tho cracks nnd crevices
of door nml windows were" carefully plus
Kcd. Ho was hurried to the Itoosevclt
SCION OF RICH
FAMILY SOUGHT
AS "RAFFLES"
Morris L. Pcpperman, Jr., and
Chum Accused of
Burglaries
A WEST PHILADELPHIAN
YiniiiR Morris IVppe.nmn. of KIIS Larch-
j wood iivciilie. West Philadelphia, nlid hs
J f I lend, Kenneth BuiRoss, weic mich Rood
! (lancers and so sood-looklnR that nobody
I dienmed of connectlu;; either f them
) with Hip scries of buiRlnrlcs In and about
I Mnhwiih, N.'.I which Ii Just across tho
State line from Suffcin, N, V
I'cppcrniiiii Is the nephew ot W. Leon
Pepperni.in, mllllou.ilie, who Is lce presl
' dent of the Intciboroiich llnplil Transit
Company, of New Voik, and no ono In
Mahwah doubted the nlmy he told about
ins also l)Olm, the nephew of Theodore
, ShonlM, inesldcut of the company. So
they weie social fnvoiites until the lnirR
lary In Councilman Dntnr's liotMc on Ue
I'cmbcr 31.
Today thero arc warrants out for Hie
arrest of both youiiR men, who nre now
believed to bo on the way to South Amer
ica. Peppci mall Morris L., Jr. Is the
son of Morris L. 'eppermau.
I'epperman Is the oriclnal slmon-puic
type of "names" for whom the police
nnd newspapers have been lookliiR over
since llornuiiR wiote his Immortal book.
He did not really "need the money," there
hehiR millions In the family nnd his father
bchiR well to do. If he stole the Jewels
nnd silverware of Mahw..h'n fashionable
household. In which he had been enter
taiied, and converted them Into money,
ns he Is accused ot doliiR, It wits for the
fun of dolnif it rntlicr than to eke out tho
humblo 0) a month ho -Rot In the com
pany's offices, where ho was "IcnrnlnR
tho business,"
DELIQHT OF TOWN.
Ho left his home In West Philadelphia
two years bro to enter the ofllccs of tho
American Brake Shoo and Foundry Com-
i
jmt. -
.mmfWS m
DIRECTORS OUST
ALFRED I. DU PONT
FROM HIS POST
Plaintiff in Big Powder
Suit Removed From
Vice Presidency
ACT OF RETALIATION
Company Makes Public An
nouncement to Contradict
Statements
AGED MAN, CRAZED BY ILLNESS,
LEAPS TO DEATH IN GERMANTOWN
Jacob Btuklinrt. 73 yenis olo fov 15 years an Inmate nt the
lioi.ie or tlst j-itt'ft! Sister of the Poor, Church lano, cast of Musgravt)
ttrcti, Gcrtuftnov.11, leaiifid from tho second -story -window of that in
i.i.'.uv.cu arlj today. He Tno killed instantly. Hia body wib dis
covered lying on tho gxitB by one of the sister. t
THIRTEEN DIK ,VHEN U-BOAT HiTS BRITISH SHIP
c
LOMUOKT, JrtU. 11. The British steamship Cl.iu Macrnrlanc,
1300 ions, hits Lean uuiik by a.&ubmnrlue. Tlilteea pcrsoas pcr
t'isQi wiea XU Silly wa torpedoed, Twdaly.fouv others hove hcett
i?viied.
LILLIAN 0. PYFER
Woman who shot John Ulrich,
former Philadclphian, in his offlco
in Jolict, III., yesterday, and then
killed herself.
ULRICH SAYS HE WILL
RETURN TO FAMILY IF
HE SURVIVES WOUNDS
Philadclphian, Who" Was Shot
in Joliet by Former Choir
Singer, Wants to Join
His Children
tly n Rtaff Corraiwntlcnt
WILMINGTON. I)c!., .Inn. tl.-AHicd t.
'Ill I'ont, who Jolnnl forces with l'hlllp
F dll Tout In n null In fence the (til Pont
Hccuiltlca Conitmnv In linn mrr slonlt
valued nt more than JW.wi.CW to the K. I.
da I'ont de Nemours ('omnnnwi. hag been
oualcd bj tho dlrccloi-H of the Intlcr com
pany na vice president nnd a member of
tlio I'Mnanre Committee
This action came to llaht today when
C II I.andls. head of the niibllellv doimil-
nicnt. save out a short statement con- I
tradlelliiK slatements mailc In the mom- '
1,1 , A(t at.n..AH. t., I I, , ... .. , . 1
,,.n ,,.,c,,c-in mill 4iii.'U I UU I'OIll WHS I n ... rt,.,. . ,,,,, ., ,, ,., , , ... , . . . . ,
"vice iircMldent" of tho poudcr company. " ""-"', r, annul said, "i hpoko or tno Taylor plan Willi par-
Tho dlicctors of the (vinpan.x met .ester- Uciilnr refcrpiiee tu the ttroiul street subway and tho Frankfort! elevated. I'
!!!lLiV,!ll,.li,, ,n,','-'oc.d. after a stormy' linvc not illactlssed for ptibllcntlim other features of the plan."
moellnR voted that Jlr. dii J'ont be re- ,
moved riom tlio lce piesldency. Whether
he l l cumin on the boanl of illieclnrs
baa not been illvulKed, hut the cnoi molls
stock holdings of .Mr. dll Pont. It Is be
lieved, will in event bis removal fiom i Court, tinlnv ,1m, in, I ,...i, ., . ... u , i.. . . :.,..j
that body ' . vnu iu ijunn owiiiimui, lurmer priesi, convicica
The notion of the dlrectoii caino like ' Uw m,"",lcr "f Aa Auinullcr In New Vorlc city. Schmidt Is under sentenco
a thunderbolt to the thousand.! of cm- . or "ealli. bchmldt Is to bo executed Friday If no court Interferes In his behalf.
pio. cs or me company nnd to the social
vtotld which rovolvcH mound the du
Pont family In this city. Whether Mr.
du Pont (lied his Intervention suit prior
m me iiirectoia' action or Immediately
MAYOR SftllTH MISUNDERSTOOD ON TRANSIT
.Mayor Smith this afternoon let It be known that lie was misunderstood In
reKiinl to his statement yesterday concerning transit before tho various clvlo
orKiiiilznllons nt City Hull. The Mayor- was reported ns coming out flatly for
the romprehenslvp rapid trnnslt. plans ns prepared by A. Merrltt Tnylor, former
Director nf City Transit. Questioned tills afternoon concerning his remarks
APPEAL OF SCHMIDT FROM DEATH DENIED
WASHINGTON. Jan. 11. Justice Charles K. Hinrhes. nt im Simrnmn e
$25,000 FIRE SWEEPS NEW LONDON SUBMARINE BASE
N'KW LONDON. Jan. 11. A $25,000 llro of unknown nrleln Ibrentenrd in
afterwards could not be asccrtiilned. At tlestroy the coaling stutlon of the tTnlted Stntes submarine base here early
ffi mmtfcMocTre Z""ZZll i JT'"1'- J',"'' ,he f,Ivorn,,,B "lr-" ' the wind made It possible to check tho
of tho powder com Willi. nmV a stock- I l'h- ';" Commander Pi.mey said today he did not believe the flro
MR. PYFER LOST FORTUNE
Continued on l'oir Keren, Column Two
Conlhiuril on I'aee Ti, Column Three
PRESIDENT AND IIRIDE INVITED
TO ATTEND BANQUET HERE
Pennsylvania Sinte Society to Fix
Date at Guests' Convenience
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 11. Tho President
nnd Mrs. Wilson today were Invited to
attend the first nmiual banquet of tho
Pennsylvania State Society of nre.se nt nnd
ex-ofllclnls of tho Stnte. Tho Invitation
wns extended by Senator Penrose and
Representatives Butler nnd Steele. Mrs.
Edward T. Stotesbury extended the In
vltatldn to Mrs. Wilson.
THE WEATHER
Hero we are. kullea ,ui i,AniUm.
!? !.er ?" of these wretched days, and
Jf ,ii ,!? S,arlc of ly I" l,fo at all,
Kk .''"l snlcndld pneumonia, weather
hoSt.rthv?f.,he.,,,,y- B,' temporarily
K?.v b '"terinlttent cold spells, back
Vy tnn Job. not tn mpnllnn tl,A Annl
ltIJ!e.nuft ot '9nsHltls. Intluenzn. ordinary
IE. . " . and K'nored maladies, tlfo In
W trcnc,lies is not to be despised. Did
ftati sf.h,s activities from tho Inspl
r&tlon bf th wni,- i ..i.. ., ,
K, , - '.v,,.,,ci DA-BllUUUrtS wouia
i U, h." er.r Pclct. nnd the most popu
hL rlon of al afternoon a little
r.KlD Off fh lVn1... ... .. v...,,-.
fr? nVercotna you "Itosether, how-
!i;twnoMIe show. The casual optimism
ta M0n.'ne mcr'ts of the 11000 car he
hi, ? t, BeU to tl'o man with 11.35
S&J ?0ftor Watson. "Marvelcws."
-"oracheer-up, try It.
FORECAST
iParti,. ?hil,aMPMa nnd vicinity
tlslll9 cteMty and somewhat colder to-
rml.ir ..i Jtiii -niin
fZZ,Z.!v .ralll .bU ntghti moderate
Wtd id "" becoming easterly
r aetads see page 6,
JURORS VISIT SCENE .
OF MOHR MURDER, BUT
WIFE REMAINS BEHIND
Auto in Which Doctor and Com
panion Were Killed Placed
Where Found and Trag
edy Re-enacted
DIRECTOR WILSON
SHIFTS ALL POLICE
CAPTAINS IN CITY
NEGROES REFUSE TO GO
ANP POUND
I1 Ci'u't-'f"'', 'ai'X ?W watch. lltUI n.
Br ' lIulTt.Br?aK "' fi-noon. between Academy
I ti Bth Ai'Ji J; b'T?l rewur.t U returned
w" ot telephone Ogonta BUT.
1 uS iv."-. Sjlurilay afternoon. betwsn
tj sl c2i.ii;..PJS'!: Uberal rewnrd. Apply
f Nwtea ifoi .Saturday eenlnK. tomewhere
L BWlif! 12lh ian-t it -UCUl UllU pUOLOPUiJT
r Vitn loii.ri irej coouinwK money,
bHtCiit "n":,u ..reward; return, to I-ed-
'Keii,.rlR NECKPIECK. loet Thursday.
iSiw ii,. 'I?0?, Wilmington to Norwood.
iFnti IhSitt "?, Sundjy. small dUlI
SjFt2aJnUe;ltvir It ret. tffU Locust at.
JiaSK, s!i,lJy "''nt. twouseftIrea on
CtuisWtl Ai Veye. fi oKij(
rrtOVIDKN'CK, R. I Jan. 11. '
Wading ankle deep In mud, the Jurors
In the trial of Sirs. Elizabeth Slohr were
shown today over the scenes In the slay
ing of Dr. Chniles K, Slohr and the'-Shoot-Ing-
of SIlss Emily C. Burger, his pretty
housekeeper.
The four-pnsHcnger touring car In which
the pair were seated when shot from am
bush was thero In almost the exact posi
tion it occupied on the night or August
31, A fence post on the opposite side of
the Nayatt-Wnshlngton road was marked
wiih white Daintibv the State and pointed
out us about the position of the slayers.
The fence Is sot on an artificial ridge
about IS Inches high. It is the State's
claim that the negroes, Spellman and
Hrown, lay In whit behind the ridge for
lleorge llenlls, Doctor Slohr's negro
chauffer, to stop the car by prearrange
ment, pretending to look for engine trou
ble. Tho State's tour toolt the jurors over the
course said to have been followed by the
negroes in their flight. On the side of
the' lake opposite the NayutMVashlngton
road lilce had a motorcycle waiting In the
spot where he said the negroes left it
...hiu Hipv shot the doctor and the girl.
Hlce pointed out Country Club path,
leading through the woods to the, club
where Doctor Slohr Is said to have enter
tained a number or society women ui
artous times.
After Inspecting the rest of the road
the jurois came to a point where a
woman witness for the State, whose name
Is still secret, U said to' have seen two
negroes pushing a motorcycle shortly
n.fter the shooting.
Mrs. Slohr at the last moartent today
exercised her feminine prerogative and
changed her rofiU about going with the
jury Instead she remained in Providence
conferring with her attorney. John J.
Fitzgerald.
Spellman and Brown, the negro de
fendants, understood they were to be
taken to the scene In automobiles and an
nounced their Intontlon of going along.
When ourt aojcunieu iu me jiuww
Complete Resolution in Places
Occupied by Division Chiefs
Ordered by Department
Head
HINTS AT MORE CHANGES
All the police captains were shifted to
day by Director of Public Safety William
If. Wilson.
"Will there ba any more shifts?" he
was asked, and he made this significant
reply;
"Only captains today."
The Director said the shifting Implied
no reflections on the captains themselves,
"They're Just shifted; that's all." he
said,
The most Important post of all falls to
Captain William B. Mills, who Is moved
from downtown to the Central division,
a post held by Harry C, Davis before the
latter was elevated to the place of assist
ant director.
Captain David SlcCoach, brother of
City Treasurer William SlcCoach and a
strong Vare man, is moved downtown, a
Vare stronghold. In tho City Hall they
say the Vares' position Is strengthened
by the manner of the Bhlfts, ,
These are the changes;
Captain William B. SIllls, from the 1st
division, which takes In all of downtown,
to the traffic division, which Includes
the harbor police, the training schoolthe
motorcycle squad, the drill master. th
mounted police, the reserves, the Central
Station and the central district. It makes
him virtually assistant .superintendent of
police, although offieially there Is no
such position.
Captain David SlcCoach. from the 5th
district (West Philadelphia) to the 1st
division.
Captain Oeorge & Tempest, frtni the Sd
division (north of Vine street and south
of Poplar street between the Delaware
and Schuylkill Blver) to the 5th division.
Captain Nicholas J. Kenny, from the 3d
division (north of Poplar street to Lehigh
avenue) to 2d division.
Captain William McFadden, from the
h division (north of Lehigh avenue, taiK
Ing in JIanayunk, Roxborough. German,
town, Chestnut Hill, Fox Chase. Frank
trtvA an1 'Pttfim't tn ,h .. j, ,,
""t .-yr"ti uis u Ql Vision,
"If I live I rim going back to my wife
and four kids."
John I'lrloh, who left his family four
years ago to elope uith Mrs. I.illinn Og
den Pfer nnd lived with her In Joliet,
111., uindo this statement today ns he lay
between life nnd death In n hospltnl In
that city. Mrs. Pjfcr, who shot Ulrich
yesterday and then committed suicide,
was 'known ns "Mrs. Itobart," nnfl ns the
wife of Ulrich, who was known In Joliet
ns "John Itobart.-"
Ills wife. Sirs; .SlnyUJlrlcli. who lives nt
Silo Funston srcVt, 'West Philadelphia,
was told of her husband's statement to
day. "Will you take your husband bnclt if
ho gets well?" Bhe was asked.
She started to nnswer and then hesi
tated. "I don't know," she said llnally.
Friends of Sirs. Ulrich snld, however,
that they had no doubt she would forgive
her 'husband, in spite of his four .veins'
absence. If she did this, they said. It
would be for the sake of the chlldicn,
Ulrlch's wound Is serious, but not neces
sarily fntal. He hns n bullet at the base
of the. brain.
HAS BEKN arct'KSSFl'L.
Ulrich, who had never been much of n
success nt business in this city, acquired
wealth In Joliet. "Sir. and Mrs. Itobart"
were consldeied mi Ideally hnppy couple
when they llrst took up residence in the
Illinois town, but this did not last long.
Ulrich soon showed that ho wanted to
return to his home in I'llndelphla nnd has
been sending his wife an allowance every
week for the last two cars.
Uf often wrote to his wife, never ad
mitting In so many words that he wns
living with Sirs. Pyfer until last Fridaj,
when ho wrote that the woman wns com
ing to Philadelphia nnd warning his wife
that she might, expect a visit from her.
"If she comes don't have unythlng to do
with her," he wrote.
SmS. PYFKIX JKALOl'S.
Sirs. Pyfer had become insanely Jealous
of the man whom sbo had taken away
from his wife. She knew he Intended to
go back to his wife. She did not know how
to keep him.
The method sho flnnlly decided on was
to attempt to keep him hers In death
and this Is tlio explanation of the shoot
ing In Joliet yesterday.
Ulrlch's Identity was never revealed un
til he thought he was dying nnd said his
real name was not "Itobart," and told
about his wife and his plan tn Join her.
Today there came to light some of the
results' of the elopement. Sirs. Py
fer'a husband was a prosperous man be
fore his wife left him. He was said to
be worth fKO.OOO, Now he Is poor. He
spent thousands In the search for his
wife; lost his taste for living, and ceased
to care about things when she wrecked
his Idea about her chniacter. He mrde
bad Investments and lost his fortune. He
is said to be living near 9th and Itace
streets.
holder In the du Pont Securities Com
puny, by siding with the members of the
family who seek to loico the leturn of
the SO.WXUIOO In sto-k which they nllcge
In tho suit tiled in the United Slntcs Dis
trict Court.
The llrst Information rcgiuding tho
change enmo .today In the statement
given out by Sir. LiiihIIh, ni follows:
"The statements iniido In tho moining
newspapers in connection with the suit
against the du I'ont Securities Company
that Alfred I. du Pont wns at the present
time n vice president of the company mid
n member of the Finance Committee me
Incorrect. Sir. du Pont wns a vice piesl
dent and member of the Finance Commit
tee, accredited to these offices nt tho nn-
wns or incenillnry origin. An investigation la helnir made, hnwov-r. bo -nlri.
nnd a report will be Kent to Washington nt once.
Caul hilled nn I'agp Tho, Column four
city officeiTpraises
charity society work
Dr. Wilmer Krusen, Health and
Charity Director, Speaks
at Exhibit
Prnlse for the ork done by the Society
for Organizing Charity was expressed to
day by Dr. Wilmer Krusen, Director of
the Department of Public Health and
Charities, nt tho society's educational ex
hibit at tho Wldencr Building. Sloie
than 13,000 persona already have visited
the exhibit.
"Ono of tho most Important Melds nf
medicine Is thnt which deals with pro
phylaxis or tho pi event Ion of dlsense,"
Doctor Kitiseu snld. "All medicnl men
have been profoundly Impressed that pie
ventlon Is much better than cure, no mat
ter how brilliant tho curative method dis
covered may prove to be. So It Is in the
treatment of the dlseaso of poverty, a
condition often produced by physlcnl In
capacity, social Improvidence and moral
delinquency."
SIlss Ulla F. Harris, of the soclnl serv
Ico department of the Philadelphia lloi
pllal, urged municipal funds for outdoor
relief work among the poor. Director Wil
son, of the Department of Public safety,
and Dr. Charles H. Finiler spoke on "The
Family nnd State Charities,"
WILL PROBE INCREASE IN PRICE OF COAL
Covernor Brumbaugh today announced tho following appointments for
the commission to Investigate the cause or causes of the rlno of tho prico of
anthrutitP coal. TIiohioh Sliirtlmlule. Philadelphia; Judge Robert S. Oawthrop.
West Chester, and John Langilon, Huntingdon.
FIRE MENACES SUBMARINE BASE
SKW LONDON. Conn., Jan. II. Hire which started In a coalbln at tlio coal
ing Htatlon at tlio United Stntes Navy submnrlno bnse on the Thames River,
Bot beyond control of the men at tho station lust night. A pumping engine from
the local department succeeded In extinguishing "the blaze early today. Tho
damage wns about $7000. The cause of the "re wj8 spontaneous combustion.
Several submarines tied up nt the docks were cast off to prevent, damage by
tho flro.
FRENCH LINER IN PORT, DESPITE TJ-BOAT WARNINGS
NIW YoniCi Jun. 11.' Tile French finer l-arnvctte. lihmft whfnh whrnlium
woro Issued before she sailed from 'Ho'rden'u.v, similar to those issued about thb
Lusltiinla just before she departed on licr fntal voyage, arrived today.
Two hundred and thlrty-elglit passengers, who calmly disregarded threats
of destruction by n CScrmun submarine, were on board.
The liner did not even sight a submnrlno all the way across.
II. .1. Morrison, of Philadelphia, who has been studying the industrial needs
of I'urope, said that France will need '10.000,000 tons of conl annually from tho
United Stntes for the next 20 years.
ESCAPED CONVICT LEADS ROBBER BAND IN JOLIET
JOLIKT. III.. Jan. 11 An escaped convict from the Stnte penltcntlnry here led
a band or robbers through Jollet early today, terrorising the town, Three of the
gang. Including the convict, were captured nftcr a hnnd-to-lmnd battle with police.
MARYLAND STEEL RAISES WAGES
BALTISIORi;, Jan. 1 1. The Slaryland Steel Company, on February 1, will
Increase the pay of Its employes about 10 per cent. Approximately 4000 men
are benefited.
GRAVE SITUAZIONE
NEL MONTENEGRO
L'Avanzata Austriaca Verso il
Lovcen- e Durazzo Pericolosa
Anche Per l'ltalia
highway In ordinary day coaches tbey, j Succeeding Captain JTcFadden aa 8n
top. hanged their jnlnd and remained I acting captain In the 1th division U An
In jail- At tr inspecting the ene tbe I drew F Jolly, who ha been lieutenant of
jurors return?d to Povl4nce. the Tacoay police station.
PYFER A POLITICIAN.
Samuel SI. Pyfer and Ills pretty wife
lived In 1911 at .i!515 Beulnh street. He
had a saloon itt 5th 'and Wolf streets.
He made money so rapidly that his
fortune was probably greatly exagger
ated. The neighborhood estimate, of "a
quarter of a million dollars" Is based
upon the story that Pyfer was "In
politics." He was said to be a Vare
adherent- At any rate he, made a great
deal more than a saloon at 5th and Wolf
should ordinarily warrant,
Ulrich, who "had been' employed at
League Island', ' became- sexton of the
Methodist church at 8th and Porter
streets. There Sirs. Pyfer wus promi
nent as a charitable wprker and choir
singer. , Ulrich then lived at 2132 South
Percy street. '- '
HAD FAITH IN HEIR.
A number of ''persons knew 'that Ulrich
and Sirs. Pyfer were admirers of each
other, and there was a good deal of gos
sip, but Pyfer did not seem to see any,
thing wrong and had so much faith In
his beautiful wife that anything he may
havp seen he, would have interpreted as
innocent. Ulrich disappeared on Christ-,
mas Eve. Mil. Ten days later Sirs. Pyfer
was gone, too. and Pyfer"s troubles began.
He began a search whlci. even took him
to Europe. He vhdted every part of this
country, but he never happened to visit
Joliet, wheie Ulrich was In the manufac
turing business and was doing well. He
was known n Joliet as "John Itobart";
that Is. he used his first two names, droo
ping the third. '
Two years after Mrs. Pvfnr". riiu,
pearance. her husband, despairing of And.
Ing her. sued for dlvorue. He filed hia
Coathiued so Page Twa, fluu,u uU
Telegramuil da Roma dlcuiio die la
sltuazlone nel Slontenegro e' grave e die
le truppe ill re Nicola lion potranno
leslbtere mono u lungo ana piessiouo
dclle forze nustrlache ill Invaslone die
mlrano n scendcre a Durazzo cd a con
qulstare 11 Slonte Lovcen che domlna Cat
taro. '
II generale Carlo Coral, crltico militare
dolla Tribuna, dice frnuenmente che la
sltuazlone nel Slontenegro e' gravida dl
perlcoll per l'ltalia o che occorre prov.
vedere dando attigllerle adeguate per
quallta' e per quantlta' nl montenegilnl
perche' possano impedlre che gll austilacl
si arrampichlno sulle baize del Lovcen e
dl ullrl puntl strategic! del Slontenegro
II generale Cadomu anuunclu che
vlolentl duelll dl artlglierla Infuriano su
tutto II tronle jU Rovereto a Slonfalcone,
duelll dl gross) caimonl. Oil austrlacl
liainio tentuto ii attaccare le poslzionl r
italiane nelU zona dl Col d Lana, su
Slonte Slef, ma sono statl resplutl. AI
trovo la sltuazlone e' Immutata.
(Leggere In 6a pagiiid le ultlme e plu'
dettagllater notlzle sulla guerra, in
itallano.)
GIRLS PLAN V. W, C. A. OPENING
GERMANY ADMITS LOSS OF CRUISER BREMEN
MERLIN, Jan. 11. Dchtruetlon of the German protected cruiser Rremen In
the Ilaltic Sea wns admitted today In an Item Issued by the Overseas News
Agency, which said:
"Copenhagen newspupcrs report that life belts from u Clermau man of war
have been found on the Swedish coast. Wo hear from competent authority that
the belts must be from tho sunk Hremen, since an accident to uny other ship
belonging to tho CJerniau Navy Is out of the question."
The Hremen was a cruiser of 3200 tons displacement. 3-11 feet Ions nnd 43
feet wide. It was built in 1902 ami curried a crew of 2!7 men.
BERLIN LOSES 232,547 IN MALE POPULATION
HEHLIN, Jan. 11-The latest census report shows that llerlln'a male pop.
illation has decreused by 232,57 since July, 1914. due chlclly to the cnlllns Of
the men to the army. In females, however, the population Is Btrongly Increasing,
The total population of Ilerlln today is 1.887,869, as against tho hlghwuter mark
of 2,095,030 In 1912 and 1,995,806 at the outbreak of the war.
Abington Association to Move Into
New Wyncote Building
Girls of the Abington Y. W. C. A. -met
this afternoon at the home of the treas
urer, Silas Blanche- Chaubeau. Wyncote
road, Wyncote. to plan for the opening
of the new Joint building, which the as
sociation U to occupy, with the Y St.
C A., on the York road, at Abington.
It Is expected the opening will be about
February 1, bu"t nothing definite has been
announced from the Central Y- W. C. A.
This Is 'a part of the extension work ot
the Central association.
Alumnae from the Abington Friends'
School are giving their services to make
the new association a success. Tho offi
ce! s of the organization are President,
SIlss Anna S. Kemp vice president, Silas
Marlon Sharpless. secretary Mum Frances
RobbJiu, and treasurer. Miss Blanche
Chaubeau.
AMERICAN FLAG SAVES BRITISH SHIP
HOSTON. Jnn. 11. Tho Hrlttsli steamship city of Lincoln went through the
Mediterranean Sen Hying the American flag as a protection against submarines
members of the crew said, when the vessel arrived with a vuluable enrgo from
Oriental ports. According to their statements, the ship's nnino nlso was altered
to read "Lincoln." Olllcers of the vessel refused to discuss the matter Tlio
City of Lincoln carried 4000 tons of rubber and "MOO tons of tin. which, with
large consignments of oil an 1 other freight, made up ti cargo valued ut JS.OOO.OOO,
ATROCITY CHARGES TRUE, SAY BELGIAN BISHOPS
PARIS, Jan, 11, "The Hlshops of Uelgium have sent a collective letter to
Austrian and German Hlshops replying tu denluls by the prelates of the tw -m-
plres that the allegations respecting Gennan atrocities in Uelgium aro authentic
s-uys the Rome correspondent of the Petit Putlsien, "The Uelgian nisliniM whn
signed the letter allirm that they themselves conducted un InvestIBjtlon vtllugB
by village, which demonstrated that the report of the oillclal Belgian committee
underestimated the facts, If anything,
"To cut, short the controversy, they proposed the formation of a court cora
posed of an equal number of Belgian Bishops, Austrian and German Bishops and
neutral prelates." '
FORD PARTY STUDENTS ON WAY HOME -
THE HAGUE. Jan. 11. Fifty students, members of the Ford peace expedU
ton, have left for Rotterdam, whence they wll sail today on the steurashlpi
Noordam for New York. About 10 American members of the expedition remote
in Tho Hague. Most of them will sail for the United States January IE. Tb
members of the Permanent Peace Board will remain here with the memiers t
the board from the other neutral nations. ' -
KAISER'S CONDITION NOT SERIOUS, ROME HEABS
ROME, Jan, 11. The latest reports here regarding the Illness of tho "-"twin
Emperor minimize the seriousness of his condition. Reports received tram "
many through Switzerland said tha,t the Kaiser was affected by frniUfaStf
growth in the throat which required 4 smalt operation. Although the opaSteS
was slight. It Is said the greatest core was Indispensable, qwtng to the tlrttcm,
nature pf the organs uffected A. high church, offlclaf who undertook to wtri.
this report we assured that the doctors believed that If capllcatteis 4k- w"i
arise w 4v nuu.u uo ame 10 reaulH-e wort ikl BOtl Qf arty fa f,ebJJr
i r -
f
-,, rf, . f
