A BOLT everybody who is really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD averages more than
30.000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
AS first announc-id January I, 1916. The Herald
guarantees full m<*>ne> s worth to the pu
chasen of article? advrrtise-d ir. the dis?-'.*-.' ?>?.?? ?
of this paper by any Washington roerc-hant.
I ( trraiar Furnished Cton Rrouestl
NO. 3374.
WEATHER: RAIN; COLDER.
WASHINGTON. D. C?. TUESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1916.
ONE CENT.
DUPONT WORKS
ARE ROCKED BY
SECOND BLAST
Daring Plot to Destroy Entire
Plant, Police
Believe.
FUSE HOUSE SHATTERED
Blown to Bits Yesterday Aft
ernoon Following Early
Morning Disaster.
WORKERS AWAY, ONE MAN HURT
U. S. and British Secret Service Men
Begin Investigation?All Em
ployes Closely Watched.
St*?*?* to Tka WaahSagtao Barale
. Wilmington. DeL, Jan. IO?A daring plot
lo destroy the entire Carney'? Point plant
?f the du Pont Powder Works haa been
?nTOvered. The du Pont police believe It
taa been thwarted.
The "ewwette" ?heikle explosion In
Plant No. 1, early thle morning killed
the only three men working In the build
Ins tt the time. At 4:36 o'clock this
afternoon two of the fu?e powder house?
In the in-fated Hagley Tards, where on
December 1. thirty-one men were blown
Into eternity, wa? scattered to the wtnd?
by an explosion that rocked ?teamer? on
the Delaware.
Workmee t:?<-?pe lajer?
No on? was killed in the Hazier Yard?
exploelon. One man waa injured. This
Ls due to the tact that all the men had
quit work at ?I o'clock. The night ahlft
??? not due until t o'clock. But the
calm etoii*-lsm of th? M.I00 men employed
dy tbe d-a Ponts at Penna OroTe plant, has
been ?haken. Additional policemen are
betn recruited. ?>?tt ferry boat com
ing; from Wilmington la ander the eye?
cf dete?*-tlv?e.
More'-'rer the ?killed worker? employed
m the attuai powd?jr msjiuiactu re have
declared them?elr?s? the enemies of any
pervon of Oerman origin or birth. They
are against anyone whom name indl
catae Teutoni- ex-j-aetlon. I>u Pont of
ert?is declare that there were only three ?
tuen at work In the '"Sweetie'' ?hack!
when the morning exploelon occurred.
Only fear men worked in the place j
Sunday night One of these four did I
not report for work last night.
The police declared that the
"sweetie" explosion wa? "one of these
unaocountable things" to be expected
on Chrnay'e Potat.
?Til? Bet B-t-MpUryee A Hewed.
The moet ?lenifican*- phase of the
double exploelon lie? In th? fact that
the officials hav? ordered that no per
sons except known employes may land
on Carney? Point.
Four agent? of the British aecret ser
vie? and four operative? from th? United
State? Secret Service are tn Wilmington
ir vest.gating the storte? of the plot to
de?troy th? work?. Every person pur
chasing a ticket for Penns Grove is cloee
lr watehe.1
"There have been aererai plot? unoor
ere?d," as offl?=l?l ??<-.". "*We have fot-m
?? a wo?kln* toreo to watch ?uspected
person?."
Girl -Shoots Man,
Then Kills Self
Waitress Who Said She Had
Been wronged and Deserted
Senouslv wounds Lover.
Sreoal te th? WukiB?jton Haald.
Joll?K, I1L, Jan. 10.?John Robert, a
rich man. iMad of the Robert Welding
Work? here, wa? shot today at hla office
by Lillian Piper, a waitress, who then
?hot herself through the head, dying
????t? aftei waid.
Robart's recovery is doubtful. The
young woman said She had been wronged
by Robert and that he had cast her
off.
A note pinned to her clothing read.
"The wage? of sin I? death " The note
gave her father? name as William
OgiJen. of Richmond. Va.
At the hospital Robert told his story.
"My real name 1? John Ulrich," he said
"Six years ago I left my wife and four
children and good business In Wut Phila
delphia. Pa., to nin away with this girl.
"She. too, was married. Her name was
Mr??. Lillian Ogden Piper, and her father.
In Richmond. Va., ts a prominent man. of
old family."
War Money Plenty in Italy.
Milan. Jan. 10.?Subscription? to Italy'?
second war loan of COO. 100.000 were open
ed today. It undoubtedly will be rapidly
covered.
Italy a expenaes In connection with the
w**r have been a preparatory expenditure
between August. 1M4. and Jijpe. ?IS, of
roughly 866,000.0???. and about ?S.OOO.OOO
a month since.
Refute to Advance Hearing.
rha? motion to advance the appeal of
" ?-?government in the "cotton futures"
? ase for an early hearing was ?ienied
yeotorAajl.
TUSK CAPITAL Rl?tOICES
Mohamnaedan? Tbaalt l*rayer? Offer
ed for Defeat of < lariat in p?.
Constantinople, Jan. 10.?Bach demol? i
??rations of rejoicing as th* city ha?1
not known tn many years have been tak- '
Ing piara during the past twenty-four ?
hours over the wtthdrasrel of the bal
ance of the Anglo-French troops from
the OalHpoll peninsula.
The evacuation of the peninsula frees;
a Turkleh army of G?.??? men for opera
tion? el?ewhere.
Constantinople ?as Illuminated all
night snd the streets war? crowded. The
irovernment buiaatlngs and many reet
,Qnces were decorated with flags Spe
cial serrlces ?re beine held In tha
moaqusa.
GAG RULE IS
CAUSE OF ROW
Chairman Padgett and Rep
resentative Britten Almost
Have Personal Encounter.
FORMER CALLEO DECEIVER
FOR DEFENDING THE ORDER
Trien Representative Butler Stept in
as Peacemaker and Fight
Is Prevented.
The order recently Issued by the Secre
tary of the Navy forbidding naval officer?
from dlseu?sing In publl?- iiueation? bear
ing on national defense provoked ln the
Houae Committee on Naval Affairs yes
terday an ugly row which nearly led to
a personal encounter between ?Thairman
Padgett and Representative Britten, of
Illinois, a Republican member of the com
mittee.
Representative Butler, of Pennsylvania,
acted as peacemaker and brought the
trouble to an end by persuading Mr. Brit
ten to withdraw a charge that Chairman
Padgett had deceived members of the
committee. The rumpus took place In the
course of the testimony of Rear Admiral
Stanford, chief of the Bureau of Tards
and Dock? of the Navy Department.
Examining the witness. Representative
Britten entered into a diacuaslon con
cerning the "gag" order Issued by Secre
tary Daniels.
Mr Britten began by espressine; the
fear that Secretary Daniels was in a po
sition to remove from the reach of the t
cornmlttee officer? who had vttrws ?
preparedness not in accord with those of
the department. Chairman Padgett de
fended the "gas" order Issued by Secre
tary Daniels, and had read Into the rec
ord an order "gagging" army and navy
officers promulgated by President Tuft
In 190?. which. Mr. Padgett Insisted, went
far beyond any ruling of the kind con
templated by the present head of the
naval service.
Padgett Called Deceiver.
Don't you know that there Is an order
preventing naval officers from talking ln
public or to a Representative?" exclaimed
Representative Britten, addreaslng Ad
mirai Stanford.
"I only know what I hav? read ln the
newspapers," replied the admirai.
"Te there any restriction on your tes
timony before this committee?can you
give your own view? without regard to
whether they agree or conflict with thos*
ot the administration?" Admiral Stan
ford waa asked.
Absolutely." replied the admiral.
"Don't you know thst naval officer!
have been forbidden to discuss prepared
ness with Congressmen?" shouted Mr
Brttten
"I do not," responded Mr. Padgett
"Certainly there has never been any such
?weeping order as this one Issued by
President Taft'?
"I know that the Secretary of the Navy
haa gagged naval officers," asserted Mr
Britten heatedly, "aad I want to asl
Admiral Stanford some further question;
along this line. If the chairman tells thi:
committee that no gag order has tx*en Is
sued he is deceiving this committee." de
clared Mr. Britten.
"Who?" shouted Mr. Padgett, rising li
hi? place.
"Tou are," returned Mr. Britten.
"Don't say that, don't say that," Inter
rupted Mr. Butler. "I've knaavn Padgett
for twenty year?, and he wouldn't d,
anything like that."
BRITISH PREMIER TACITURN
Decllae? to Coaflde Cabinet Secret?
t? Parliament.
Srssnal Cable to The Waahtafton Herald.
Londtsn, Jan. 10.?Premier Asqulth thia
afternoon declined to give Parliament
any Information as to the cabinet situa
tion. Asked as to whether any more
resignations were expected, the premier
replied:
"I have never found it part of my duty
to diacloee confidential communications
between my colleagues and myself."
Alleged Jewel Thief Arreited.
Pr'lh-e yeeterday received word of the
arreet in Cincinnati of John M. Holly.
colored, wanted here on a charge of
stealing Jewelry valued at nearly 11,SOO
from the home of W. Wallace Chiswell,
ls?fl Biltmore street northwest. Holly
?a? employed as a servait In the home
and had disappeared whim the robbery
was discovered on January .*, police ?ay,
Preyers Asked for the Kaiier.
Rome, Jan. l?>. -A report ha? reached
the Vatican, says the Agenzia Nationale.
that Cardinal Hartmann, of Cologne, has
ordered prayers for the Kaiser's re
co ?rer>.
SOCIETY DANCES
AT BIG BALL TO
HELPJOSPITAl
Mem.bers of ?Social Set and
Their Visitors Attend
Charity Event.
SETS A NEW STANDARD
Mrs. Horace Wescott Heads
*
Receiving Line at New
Willard Hotel.
PRECEDED BY DINNER PARTIES
Gowns and Jewels Add Brilliance to
Beauty?Rooms Decorated with
Southern Smilax and Palms.
Br MILDRED MARSHAL!. KOO>CK.
AU fashion?!.:- lanes led to the Willard
last evening, when the smart society of
the NatlonaJ Capital danced for the
Children's Hospital, one of its favorite
charities. Always counted as a moat
brilliant functions of a Washington
season, the ball taat night set a new
?standard of success which coming
functions of like nature will find difficult
to equal, and established a precedent for
it-self which Its annual events In future
seasons will rarely surpass.
Dinner parties In fashionable residences
preceded the ball, so it was after 10
o'clock when the majority of the guests
arrived. There were members of the
diplomatic corps. representative? of
officialdom, residential folk, a large rep
resentation from the younger set. and a
number of the Interesting visitors who
?are in Washington this week. Both ball
rooms were used for the dancing.
Ball Room? Tastefully Defontrd.
The ball rooms were attractively
decorated with palms, and Southern
smilax. Smilax waa festooned from the
ceilings end draped the boxes and a
great maas of palms ?nd flowering plants
formed a charming background for the
receiving party. Mrs. ?Torace Westcott
beaded the reception committee, assisted
by Mrs. Charles C. Glover. Mra. Jam*?
W. t-Fad-sworth. \r.. Mr?. Xnhn C Simp
son. Mrs. Clarence ?. Wilson, Mrs. Joseph
letter, and Mrs. John F. Wllkins.
Mra Wescott wore a handsome gown
of emerald satin and carried a large
bouquet of paJest pink rosebuds. Mrs.
Olover was exquisitely gowned In green
and silver brocade and wore a handsome
scarf of ermine across her shoulders.
Mrs. Wadsworth's costume was of black
velvet and jet Mrs. Wilson also wore
black velvet, softened with tulle and Jet,
and Mrs. Wllkins was gowned in black
tulle over rose eatin with Jet trimming?.
Mrs. John T. Rodger?, who had enter
tained at dinner the Ambassador of Bra
zil and Mme. da Gama, the Swedish Min
ister and Mme. Ekengren. Judge and
Mrs. William Bailey Lamar, Mr. and
Thomas Sweeney, Mr?. Lloyd Bowers,
?and Mr. and Mrs. Horace Westcott,
brought her guests later to the hall,
where she had a box. Mrs. Lloyd Bowers
and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Sweeney also
had taken boxes and entertained a num
ber of additional guests.
Wndinnrlhi Rntrrtnln QsmIi.
Senator and Mrs. James W. Wads
worth, Jr., occupied a box and had with
them their dinner guests of the evening,
who included Mr. and Mrs. George How
ard, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Mitchell, Rep
resentative and Mrs. Nicholas Long
worth, Mr. and Mrs. C C. Rumsey, Sen
ator and Mrs. Lippltt, Mr. and Mrs. Eus
tts, Mr. and Mrs. Mande ? ?He Carlisle.
Mrs. Payne Whitney, of New York; Vis
countess de Slbour, Mr. George Marvin,
and Mr. Walter Howe.
Mr. and Mra. Victor KaufTmann enter
rONTINOKD ON PAOB TWO.
AIEMEN ATTACK SOFIA.
G?????? G??'!?.??? Bombardment b)
French Flotilla, London Hears.
London, Jan. 10.?A flotilla of French
aeroplanes bombards 8ofla today. In
flicting groat damage, according to an
Exchange Telegram Company dispatch
from Saloniki.
A wild panic followed the bombard-,
ment.
Abandoned Ship Heavily Insured.
New York, Jan. 10.?The Greek liner
TheeFalonikI, which was abandoned at
sea under dramatic circumstances, wa?
Insured for $300.000. This fact ?as an
nounced today by N. A. Qalnos. ?????
?gent of the Greek line. Two Inquiries
into the vessel's loas will be Instituted,
tomom-rw. The flrst will begin In the
Gi-eek consul's office. As soon a.? each
of the veaeel's crew has finished, he will
be taken before adjusters for Uoyds.
Huerta Said to Be Near Death
El Paso, Jan. 10.?General Victoriano
Huerta today underwent a fourth opera
tion. Physicians state that his condition
I? ?o serious that he may die within the
next twenty-four hours. Members of his
family and Intimate friend? were called
to his bedside.
"He is sinking rapidly," ?as the doc
tor's statement.
Villa Takes Toireon, la Report.
El Paeo, Tex., Jan. 10.? Torre?n wa?
captured by a Villa army tonight, ac
cording to a code telegram' received
here
Citizens Plead for Police
And Firemen's Pension Fund
Northeast Washington Association Launches Crusade to En
act Legislation at This Session of Congress?Against
Plan for Levying Tax on Autos.
A movement among the citisene of the
District to support a police and firemen's
pension law ln Congre?? thl? year was
started by the Northeast Washington
Cltlxen?' Associati.m at a meeting In the
Northeast Temple last night.
Disapproving the proposed bill of Rep
resentative Cary, of Wisconsin, under
which police pen?lona would be raised
by taxing the horsepower of automobiles
and by other special assessments, the as
sociation adopted the view? of The Wash
ington Herald and decided that police and
firemen's pensions are "a Just debt," and
should be appropriated for by Congress
each yesr as are all the other expense?
of the District
The resolution. Introduced by Dr. 1* D.
Walter, chairman of the committee oe
fire and police, ''alls upon Congress to
authorize th? Commissioners to make
an estimate each year of the sum re
quired to meet the pension fund, and
that said appropriation be Included In
the District bill as a legitimate expense ?
of the District government.
Commissioner? 1 pbeld.
The association adopted a report nt Its
school committee, ?.xoneratlng the Com
i mlfisloner? of all Intentions of introduc
ing politics Into the locai school system
i by their proposed change. The report,
however, recommends that the people of
the IHstrlct be empowered by i'ongress
to elect the members of the Board of
Eduiatlon. This mas the first association
to uphold the Commissioners ln their re
commendation.
"We believe that the Commise.? ? er?
have the beet interests of the school! In
mind." read the report, "and we accept
and believe what the Commissioners *a>
to the effect that the teachers will be
fully protected ln their t ?achinga, and
furthermore, that politica, aa charade"
by some, will not prevail."
Oirainet BUI Rider?.
?President Evan H. Tucker denouncer
the practice of Conpen of "tacking onto
the District bill legislation which would
never pass Congress on Its own merits
on which the people ha?? no aay am
t? which the members of Cisnareae givi
only meager consideration.
On motion of the executive committee
& resolution was adopted protestlnr
-igei? Ft "the Insertion Into the District
Apprnj-riatlon? hill of any of the legisla
tive Items which have been suggested
aad that we appeal to tbe committees
hsjvlng charge of said bills to exclude all
such Items therefrom."
On motion of Dr. Percival Hall, th.
association indorsed the recommendation
of thA Commissioners for the purchase of
the Patterson tract. Fifth street anr
Florida avenue northeast, for park pur
poet-s
Th? association indorsed the bill of
Senator Oalllnger, which would pre veni
the District from collecting from prop
ert? holders benefits assessed agains
them for the extension of a street ye&rs
before the street Is actually extended.
Eastern High School Site
May Be Acquired This Week
Commissioner Newman Says District Is Negotiating for Pur
chase of Property on East Capitol Street Between
Seventeenth and Nineteenth.
betw-saa ?
reats for
A site on East Capitol street betw
? Berenteenth and Nineteenth "tr*
I th? wopoeed Eastern Hi*-*! ?-cltow* for tl?*?
District of Columbia probably will he ac
quired at private sale this weak, accord
Ins; to a etatement made yeeterday by
Commissioner Newman.
Negotiations for the purchase of the
property are now under way, and If a
satisfactory price can be secured they
will be completed Immediately, ?aid the
( 'ommlestoner.
This site was recently valued at $132,
<W0 by a condemnation Jury appointed by
the Commissioners, in a report which was
rejected on the grounds of being* ex
orbitant.
Strong protest against the selection of \
this site, in favor of the site known as
"reservation 13" ?and on which now stands
the Waahln.gton Asylum. District Jail,
and crematory, has been lodged with the
Commissioners by members of the Eaat
Washing-ton Citizens' Association.
Answering the protest, the Commission
er? declare thst no assurance has been
given or can be given that the buildings
on e^eerrutlon IS will be toni down with
in the next five or ten year.*, ?and as tbe
Board of Education has repeated!)* rec
ommended the East Capitol rtseet site,
the purchase will be concluded if satis
factory financial arrangement? can be
made.
At 1 ts last session Congress appro
rrlated the sum of $150,000 for the erection
of a high ?school in the eastern section of
the city. On March 17. 1915. the Commis
sioners appointed a Jury of condemnation
to place a value on the land. The jury
reported on August 30. 1915. that In their
opinion a fair valuation of the land was
(132,000. More than 16.000 aas paid out
for the services of the Jury and the ex- t
penee of the proceedings. One month
later the Commissioners rejected the re
port of the Jury on the grounds of ex
orbitant valuation, and immediately be
ean negotiation looking to the purchase
of the property at private sale.
Mrs. Mohr and Two Negroes
On Trial in Murder Case
Providence Courtroom Presents Strange Scene as Jury Is
Named to Pass Judgment on Widow and Employes
Accused of Killing Her Husband.
By SOPHIE TREADWELL
Spedii to The Wuhingtm He?id.
Providence, Jan. 10.?"What say you to
this indictment, Ce4-11 Victor Brown?" '
"Not guilty," laughed the small negro
"What say you to this indictment.
Henry H. Spellman?"
"Not guilty," sulked the big negro.
"What say you to this Indictment.
Elisabeth Francis Mohr?"
"Not guilty," whispered the little white
woman. And the trial of Dr. Franklin
C. Mohr's widow and his former stable
boy and coachman was under way. She
was accused of having hired them to
murder him. They were accused of hav
ing done the deed for her. For on the
night of August 3. the doctor was shot
and killed while driving In his automo
bile along the lonely Nyatt road with
Miss Emily Burger, his secretary.
Arraigned with 4 olnr.d Boys.
When Mrs Mohr and the two colored
boys were ranged side by side before the
Judge's bench to hear the Indictment
read, her attorney. Arthur Cushlng.
flllpp?*-d In quickly between her and them.
He stood there in line with them during
all the long reading It ?is the only
service in this way he was able to give
Fire ?Scare At Toronto Terminal
8pe?-iil fo The W ?.?hi net ?hi H.r?M
Toronto. Jan. 10.? A stubborn blare
(-aused by defective wiring for a time
threatened Ufe destruction of the I'nion
Station this afternoon, but was confined
to $2?.'?0 damage
Upwards of .VX! employee In the sta
tion es.-apod safely from the upper/floors
by stairway and elevators.
Canadian Lieutenant Killed.
London. Jan. 10?Lieut. Gordon Duke, a
Canadian, was killed at East Bourn?? yes
terday in an aeroplane acclden.'
her. His last appeal to secure her a sep
arate trial had been denied by Judge
Steams a few minutes before.
Mrs. Mohr came into the courtroom at
10.30 this morning She came ln unob
trusively?almost casually.
The two negroes arrrved a few minutes
after Mrs. Mohr. But nobody paid much
attention to them.
Judge Charles S. Steams presided. For
the State appeared. Attorney Ornerai
Herbert A. Rice, Assistant Attorney Gen
erals Abbott Phillips and Claude R.
Branch. For Mrs. Mohr appeared Arthur
Cushing, her personal lawyer, and John
F, Fitzgerald, sometimes known as the
Democratic boos of Rhode. Island. For
the two negroes, appeared the negro law
yer, William H. Lewis, of Boston.a former,
assistant attorney general of the I'nited
states, and John B. Edwards.
J?r> I? ?aelea-leal.
The calling of prospecti?."?? Jurymen be
gan at s/ quarter to eleven. Religion,
politics and race prejudice were some of
the powerful Influences unmaskod in the
questioning and wrangling that followed
before the final Juror was chosen Just be
fore court adjourned after 6 in the aft
ernoon.
Briton Praises U. S. Envoy.
Ixindon, Jan. 10. ?Henry Morgenthau.
Vnited States Ambassador to ,T?rke.,
was eulogised in the house of commons
this afternoon by Ieord Robert Cecil, the
under foreign ?ecretary. I-ord Cecil at
the time was speaking of the measure*
taken by Mr. Morgenthau to insure the
safety of fifty French and Brttl?li non
combatant? who were ?ent to the Galli
poli peninsula last year by the Turk? aa
an act of reprisai.
2,000,000 MEN
T8 PROTECT ?. S.
PLEA OF EXPERT
Gen. Hugh Scott Tells House
Committee Large Army Is
Needed -to Ward Off Foe.
COMPULSORY~SERVICE
Chief of Staff Says Invading
Force Could Reach U. S. in
Ten or Fifteen Days.
CALLS ARMY MUCH TOO SMALL
Witness Tells How European Power?
Could Land Force? on East
ern Shores with Ease.
The creation of a standing arm) of
?,???.000 m?-m to prot.?et the l'nited ?ates
against possible Invasion from Europe
wa? recommended to tbe Hou?e Commit
tee on Military Affairs yesterday by
Gen. Hugh U Scott, Chief of Staff of the
army. Gen Scott told the committee
that It would be perfectly feaaible for
any of the big powers of Europe, or a
combination of them, to land a force on
the eastern shores of the L'nited States.
Accordingly, Gen. Scott believed tt to
be the duty of the government to raise
an army of 2,000,000 men against the time
when It might be called upon to resist a
foreign foe. He gave it a? his opinion
that compulsory military ?ervlce w?s the
only effective means of raising a big
army In time of peace He favored en
rolling In the military ?ei-vlce all young
men between the age? ot II and 21 for a
specified peri4>d of ?ervli-?e and training
It wa? augge?t??d to Gen. 8cott that no
nation could Invade thl? country with
out taking so long a time about lt a?
to give th? United States ample time In
which to prepare. It was ??uggeeted
further tbat Invasion of the United
Statea would require a force much larger
than It would be practicable for
European power to trampoli acro?? th?
Mi
Comi* Hrsrk V. m. In ?Viffr-rn Days.
Oen Scott explained to the committee
tbe poafebllities of Invasion by several
European powers a? worked out by tbe
General Staff of the array. He pi-ooieded
to show that Austria could land 72,000
men in a first expedition and more than
IOU.000 In a f?cond expedition fully
equipped for the field ; that <3erm?any
could land 3P7.000 In a first expedition and
-MS.OOO in a se4?nd expedition; that
France could land 160.000 In a first ex
pedition .and 243.000 in a third expedition.
"Besides, we must remember the po?- '
?ibillty of being atta? ked by combina- j
tlona of European powers," remarked ;
Gen. Scott The Chief of Staff told the
committ??-e that his conclusions were not i
rte*ed on mere surmise or ?peculation. I
They were based upon Inquiries as to j
the number of men and ships that the (
4-arious countries of Europe might use
In an Invasion of the United States. He :
?dded that It would take only from ten I
to fifteen days for an Invading force
to reach the United Statea
Ge?n. Scott's approval of universal com-:
pulsory military service prompted Rep- j
resentative Anthony, of Kansas, a mem-,
ber of the committee, to exclaim:
"But that would rai?e an army of
from two to four million men."
"Two million men doesn't frighten me."
remarked Gen. Scott. "If Germany or
any other foreign nation determined to
Invade u? and once got a foothold we
would need every man of them.'*
The Chief of Staff told the committee
that the Unlte-d Statt*?? army compares
favorably in efficiency and quality ?itti
any like establishment in Europe. The
only criticism that could be made of the
regular army, he aaid. was Its small
else. With compulsory militari* service.
Gen. Scott thought, this country could
reduce the rate of pay to it? soldier?.
and maintain a great army at about tbe
same amount that It now expends on a
small army.
TURK WAS LOSSES 1.500.000
*\ow ??,??.4 Men Available for
K?> ?4 Service. Rone .?ays.
Special Cable ? The Waehinctou Herat*.
Ixjndon, Jan. 10.?A Rome dispatch
places the total Turkish losses at
1,600.000.
The same dispatch says that Turkey
has informed .Germany that S0.000 troops
are available for service in Egypt.
When the war began Turkey's maxi
mum militar>' strength was placed at ?
from S00.000 to 1.000,000 men.
Hurt in Auto Cra?h.
George M. De Marr. ?. of .130 ? street
northeast, was probably fatally Injured
at 12:80 o'clock this morning when thrown
from the seat of an automobile truck
on which he was riding as the truck
collided with a street car. The accident
aceurred at First and G street* north
west, ss the result of a misunderstanding
of signal?.
Young-?town Strikers Quiet.
Baat Tounystown. Ohio. J?n. 10?The
backbone of the big strike at the mills of
th? Toungstown 8hi-et and Tube Coin
pan? appeared broken today. Hundre<la
of strikers returned to work, all apparent
ly in a docile mood, when the mill whi?tle
?ounded the call at ? o'clock
BULLETS ANSWEB GREETTJ&S
Caaaallaa Reply <? Gera?? Haw
arar Joke 1? Baia af ????sta.
Ottawa. Ontario. Jsn 10 -staJ Oen. aar
8am Hughes, minister of mlMtta, has re
ceived an offlclal communication from thr '
Canadian general repr?sentative ts
Franca, which ?aid In part:
?'At midnight on New Tear'? Be? the
enemy endeavored to make a truca at
various points on our front. Ia one in
stance after daylight on January 1 tb?
enemy mounted his parapets and shout
ed: "New Tear's greeting " In all cases
the enemy was answered by mach gun ?
snd rapid rifle fire, while batteri?? wer?;
also called In action. Thla ended the
overture? of frtendllnea?.'?
APOLOGY NOW
READY FOR U.S.
Germany Prepared to Regret
Murder of Ameri-cans
on Lusitania.
COUNT BERNSTORFF INDORSES
DOCUMENTS SENT TO BERLI??
Full Settlement of U-Bo?t Contro?eny
Expected to Follow Convertubon,
with Mr. Lansing.
The Washington government aad the
German Embassy now believe that tha
coartroversy over the ?Inking of the L,u?1
tania eight month? ago, with a loa? of
more than a hundred American live? 1?
virtually at an end.
All that remain? now. it may be ?aid
on authority, Is for the German govern
ment to glee appros-al of the final agree
ment between the Untied Statee and
Germany.
Thl? draft went forward to Berlin laet
night over offlclaJ fatate Deraartment
wire?.
? ?aaralgkt-oal Amaiaay ?
According to thl? draft. Germany
would give the aatlsfactlon demanded by
the I'nited States fan the following way:
L The Imperial German government
?rill again esprese Its deep regret over
the killing of the American men. women
and children who lost their lives when
tn? Cunard liner wa? torpedoed without
warning by a German submarine
:. It will expresa entire ailliagne?? to
mat, rer?ewUon for the Hares desti eyed
th? detail? cf mdemr.llV-atlon to He ari
luaiasd on a basi? satisfactory to both
troa ernrrsssnt?
1 It will admit that the attack on the
Lusitani? was an illegal a*, t, but one
which was a reprisal undertaken against
the unlawful ?ctkma of Great Britain ln
proclaiming her orJer-ln-council and pro
ceeding to starve out the noncombatant
population of Germany.
4. In reference to the demand? of the
I'nited State? ln Its note of July 5a for
assurances against a repetition of the
attack on tbe I.usltania. Germany. It is
understood, a ill refer to the ?assurance*
aiready given by her on this acora fol
lowing the sinking of th? Arabic.
Ogelala larltaar to Retta-rasce.
Althouarh both Secretary Latnsing and
?"ount von Bernstorff decline?) aheoluteHy
to discuss the situation pending the re
ceipt of word from Berlin, it la under
stood that all of the foregoing points ?11!
be covered ln the forthcoming note from
Berlin. Count von Bern?torff expects to
he*r from hi? government in about fls-e
days' lime, ?hen he will again confer
with M- I .arising end close up the Inci
dent.
Ships Ashore on Pacific.
Seattle. Waah.. Jan. 10.? The French
ship Marchael de Causi r?as and the Am? ?- !
can barkentlne Jane I* Stanford, ?rent
ashore In a gale today near Kort Angel?*?.
The I'nited State? coast guard ?hip '
L'nalga Is standing by.
BRITISH ASSERT
VICTORYONTIGRIS;
"NO," SA Y TURKS
Ten Thousand Englishmen
Reported as Cut Off at
Kut El Amara.
-ONDON STORY DIFFERENT
Sultam's Men in Retreat. Sec
retary for India Tells
Parliament.
LOSE ???? MEN AND GUNS
rurki Numbering 60.000 Compels?!
to Withdraw After V >olet<! Bat
tie? in M-rsopolamia.
Cater la Tha ~i|? Ian ? B. ? A
London. Jan. 11?The British and Turks
are at grip? In two greet battle? listwtw
tbe Persian Gulf and Bagdad T??
:hous?nd Britlah are eat e*t at Kat al
Amara The Turk? are before the final
iefenee of thl? Mespotamiaa fort A
relief expedition under Oen Aylmor, la
?ndeavortng to push for*jrar?d to tbe ra
llar of the l-ete-agured garrUoa.
In the bouae of ooenmons to??)ay, J.
auaten 4-*toamberlaln. aecratary for India,
announced ?nci-enn for tbl? expedition
He ?aid the Turk? were tat full retreat
?fter lewlne 74? prisoners and a nsmbsr
of gun? tn ? violent batti?.
Re-sort? lo (?Bate?
Report? revived from Co?wtaJittno|4?
through Berlin and Amsterdam, tell an
entii-?ly different ?tor-y. They atau that
Sen. Aylmet a force k?st (.?? atan In an
?ttack on the Tarklah position? at Sheik
Said. The attack wa? repulsed.
Regarding the British force at Rut al
Amara, an offl'tal dispatch from Oo?
?lantlnopl? after claiming that tbe fo?rt
ha? been ?urrounded and tbat th? Baal*?
British army la la retreat, ear?.
"It la hoped Kut el Amara aso? wtn
be taken or win capitulate for waat ?C
food, and tbat tbe Unlwh ?elalin. orma
number ?nore than hMtft wlK be rmmmrom.
-Tbr Brtrtaw tbotia-ar try luv Hg UM
forres at Kut el Amar? to gu?rame* tto
defense of that town arid alno to eaaovm.
the oi-derly retreat of the
tbe ?rm?.
"Thia portion of ibe ?rmy I? at
a long ???> ?w?uth?east of Kut el Amata?
and cannot go to the aid o? the fort.
especially a? It? morale Is shaken "
Mr. 4 kaaSerlal?'? ktatesaea?.
The ?naount-ement of Mr. Chamberlain
that a new army was moving to the rw?
lief of Mmt
dal Intima turn here that th? Brtti?fl
troops ther* were In danger Mr. Chatat
bertain asid:
"?Gen. Aylmer Wt lm?4i ?1 AM ?Jarla
on Januar-? 4i *?ith tro4>ps marching tu the
relier of Kut el Amara.
"On the ??me day t;en Tcmnshen*. at
Kut el Amara, reported that on tlie pre
vious niglit the enemy tmrt opened A,
heavy Are on the northwe? front. orn?
cm the village oppo?i4e Kut el Amara?
but had made no attack
"On the nlsht of January '. Gen Ayl?
nier reported heavy tiring on the ?oetb ?
hank of the Tigri??.
Kmemt'e G?????4??? Taken.
"On the right bank 4^n ."ami
? olumn carried th?? en? m> s posi?.?.??, tak??]
Ing two guns and 704. prisoner*, ar A then
intr?n.hef1 Munmlile th* main ?ttack
on the left bank was retard?*-?! by a Turk?
Iah outranking n>4?Aemenl. end 4*;en. A>1*>|
mer reported that ha apparenti? was em
po?ed bv three Turki??? dtvlilon?
-1
?o to aMura I
lemakiSer am%
Is at pi issasti
ut ?I Amar? j
ALL THE NEWS and
More Special Features
EVERY MORNING j
Less Than Half Usual Cost
===
SEND IN YOUR ORDER NOW.
JUS**?*'?*
Daily, lc-Sunday, lc
DAILY AND SUMUY
BY CARRIER. 30C A MONTH.
?NAaNrlt* .?......?
ADDRESS .
