;
Randolph One
Will Put You in Quick Touch
With The T-D Want Ad Man
66th YEAR
vol.rui-: no
M MIIKH IO
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, .JANUARY
1916.?TWELVE PAGES. "'VaV/kS ?RAIN. PRICE, 2 CENTS
DEPARTMENTS
Common Council Adopts
Main Essentials of Char
ter-Change Program.
HOW PEOPLE MAY ELECT
CHARTER COMMISSION
Only on Petition of 25 Per Cent
of Voters Qualified in Pre
ceding General Election.
Ahl)i:i{Mi:.V TO .ACT TO-NKiirij
\\ iillct'vtviti Aniciidmciil as in Knin
Hilsos Is t?? Olfli
naiico t 'oimitil tee.
Changes in Charier
Tin* tn it I ii feature* of tin* cluirlrr
oIiiiiik<* ri*|itirl UN tilll?? t'niii
? ????ii (outiell liiHt iiIkIiI. lire:
IMiicIiik tin* I'lrr mill I'ullrr !???
|inrt iiii-ii In iiiiiIit tin* control uml
in ii ii ii K ?* *iii*ii t of tin* Mn.iiir uml tin*
n Iml I tin ii of tlii'lr pi*K|n*f*t I vi' liimrtln.
l.llilltliiK' tin- ri'?i'r\i* I ii ii il t<i - l-lt
||<T IT lit, mid pr mil 111 life n|i|ir?i|irlll
11 mi h til tin* i*\ti'iit nt 117 1-1! pi'r
I'i'iit of tin* fnlrlj ii iitlelpiit eil ri'i
rinir for i-ni'li eii?nlim jrnr.
\iloptloii of ii ri'Hiilitliiiii InntPlirt
tnic tin* t lt> Vttorni'.i to request the
t.riii'riil \ hhi'inlil? lo i'iiiii'I ii lilll
i'inpo\\rrliiK mi* <-lt> hilling " l>"l?
IIIII111* II III I'xcini of ."MMMMI III II I1111 -
t ii ii tII poll petition of I!"1 pi'r Pent
of tin* viilcro <i ii ii I i tl ?* il to \oti' nt
tln> Inst pri-i'i'illnic ueiicml Heellon,
to clret 11 eliiirter-climiKe eniinnl*
ilnn of ?firn el t l/i-n?, to In* circled
nt Iiitki*.
"I'll i- W ii 11 it * 11* I ii ii on* nil iii 1. pro.
^ I il I ii IT tli in lln- Mil 11- ol pnlilli* frn ii
rlil si's must tlrst ln? riitllli-d lij n
niujorlt} toti* of those \iitliiu In ii
ll?*iirr:il or special i*lri*tliin, uu? ri*
frrri'il to tin* Ordlniiticc I niuiolttiT.
After many buffctihgs and through
much troublous ?-ffor!. the report of th*
Joint Committee on Charter Change,
with but nric Important amendment and
I a few minor < 'ranges In tli?? verbiage,
we. s unanlmbUslv adopted b> the Cotn
r? ?in Courvil last niuht, and was for
warded to the Hoard of Ahlermen|
Which meets lo-night( for coneuVrencc.
!').* ?hlef amendment is In relation
ti that . !ause which limited {Impropria
tions to llj per cnt of tin- fuirly antici
pated revenues for each ensuing year,
leaving .1 per cent to rare for the city's
'loiuliig debts arid to meet oiiktkimi
< ?<.'lar?nc9 A Sf'atoni a member of
*. ? Finance Co'iitnittee, urged that .r>
pi r ?ent Witt's rather excessive to set
asidtfl and his motiori that appropria
tion^ iimy bo m.xle to the extent of
?7 1-.' per cent of the fairly antici
? * I e * I re vendue." :'oi each succeeding
> ? it was adopted.
The ordinance instructing the city
Attorney to request the passa^i h> the
? < .'eiiei al As: ?}mbl\ ? : .1 loll ? inpowerS
;? any city of the ?'ommonwealth hav
ing a popula .-ti 111 vxcess of .*,(1.000
Ii habit.*tits t>. elect a charter-change
? iigtrtiHslon, alter a petition to that
? '.? l has In:en - j-*t.?? l by per cent or
(lit voters oil.{tilled to mi!., .it the last
j.rcifdlng general el.- '.ion, was passed
without objeei j?.:.
IMM.lt 1: M \ (. I s'I'H \ 'I l ls
Tl? Tin MISDKMKA MMtS
U'illlam 1*. Sullivan proposed the in
'.''ii of ah amendment providing
t it the Clt> Auditor shall he elected
1 ? the people. ami it whs rejected. He
)??? -eritcd it ..gain, after the repot had
i . ' i adopted, in the form of h sepa
r <? amendment, to he attached to the
report, and it was ref? rred to the Ordl
; ance < "fitniiiittee.
\ suhiMttim. offered by Gilbert K.
I'ollocU. for the amendment to the re
port ptov'ding for the appointment by
1 41 ''"iincr <-i three magistrates, who
II try illileineariO! eases 111 any of
| 1 ?? police platlomi, w.is adopted.
The I'oIId. k substitute provides that
? ? magistral*must try ordinance
olaiiotis 'iml misdeineanor eases, as
? ?MSi'at' 'I by the City Council, and
1.it tli" City Council may appoint a
tuftiee to sit in the absence ot the
Police .ilisli e. and that he shall re
; i- ive the saint- . dmpciisation, pro rata,
us the I'ciigtilarl.v appointed justlc?r.
'i'." three rdditional magistrates will
erve for a tc 111 of two years.
The Walleistein amendment, provid
ing thai 110 franchise shall be sold un
)-s- the talo tirst be raIilied l??* a ma
|ofity of those voting, was defeated on
the Hoor, and was lliially referred to
I in- OrdinaneO Committee.
wot I.I* .V lii.'.l'tV CITV
rt? i:mi?i.<?\ t:\pi itrs
; chairman Carter C Jones, of the
'/ . iii'mic.ce, 01. ''barter Chang.-, offered
' . had a-lopied a resolution .ustruct
tlie C;iy Attorney to orept ro a
. 1 teijues inr, the Cieneral Assembly
. amend tlie Constitution so as ?<? per
municipn lil les to 1 mplo.v expert
iried ollicials who arc riot voters in
1 Stale.
: here was but one determined light
iiist the adoption of the report as
whole, after .the appropriation amend
. nt. and that was in connection with
the abolishment of the l''ire and Po
lice Hoards. It developed iu unexpected
quarters. Mr. Seatou, a member of the
( Council police investigating committee,
said that he was satisfied with the
work of the two boards as they are
pow constituted, and lie urged that if
' !? were necessary to have authority con
tralized, that the two departments bo
placed under the Administrative ltoard.
.Mr Kngllsh moved that the report be
amended so as to place the Kite Depart
I menl under the Administrative KormI,
and Mr. Sullivan moved as a substitute
that the whole clause relating to the
abolishing of the two boards ntnl the
placing of the departments under (lie
I control of the Mayor bo Htrlckcn out.
1 (Continued on Second I'nge.)
I?
i Will Be Spcal ter of House
Will Oppose (?corK? Ainslie in
Democratic Primary of
April 4.
i .
MAY m: A N'OTIIIOK ('A \I)II)ATK
llawlijiris Is Well Known in Business
World?Former Commissioner of
Kcvenup and for Vciirs President
of Central V. M. C. ,\.
<H.\e A J la wk Iris. former commis
sioner of the revenue. and prominent
in civic nii'l business circles, announuvl
yesterday hi? intention Immediately to
declare himself .1 candidate for Mayor,
subject fri 111 o municipal primary to
be held on April 1
rtie nnnouncoiiicnt had liorn cxpectoil
for the past povcra! dav.?, following the
? circulation of a petition. f-i ^noil by a
; I a r k e number of representative citizens,
'-ailing upon Mr. Hawkins to enter tbe
ra< e. a committee compose.! of .!. J.ee
Davis. I: W. Wilson. Irving I. Bev
erldise ami James A. Hichardson waited
j on Mr. Hawkins yesterday with the
petition for his candidacy.
>Ilt. II Y\\ l\ INS ISM i:s
l-'Olt >1A I. A.WIII M'K.MK.XT
Mr. Hawkins announced his derision
in tin following letter, addressed to
1 the commit lee:
I acknowledge, with deep apprecia
tion. your very courteous and cordial
solicitation ?>n bi-h.iif of the signers
of tin- several petitions presented, re
questing that I consent to become a
candidate fur the high office of Mayor
of the city of Richmond.
?'Believing, as I do, that if citizens
representative In character and in num
ber call upon one of their fellow
citizens to offer for a public service, he,
putting a nle personal considerations,
should respond to th? ir wishes. I have
concluded to accede to the request, and
will immediately ai.nounce myself as
a candidate for Mayor of tiie city of
Kichmond, subject to the Democratic
primary 10 he held April 4, lSlrt.
"Very respectfully,
'Signed! "O. A. HAWKINS."
Tiie entrance of Mi Hawkins into
the mayoralty race introduces a strong
element of chance in the outcome of
t this contest. For years commissioner
. of tiie revenue, and in recent years
identified with the real estate business.
Mr. Hawkins lias a wide circle of ac
quaintance and strong friends in in
fluential quarters.
TAI.K OT* 'I'll IIII? C.\ \ I) 11).ATI-:
i:\TKlM.\<. M.WOKAI.TV HACK
While no particular affiliation Is
claimed for the low candidate, it is
I generally assumed that he will receive
strong support from the so-called
I church element. He was for a num
ber of years president of the Youhk
Men's Christian Association, and is
closely identified with the church and
welfare work of the city.
j As the mayoralty situation stands,
; there are now two avowed candidates
-the incumbent. Mayor Ainslie. and Mr.
. Hawkins. There is prevalent in some
quarters the belief that before the lists
i close a third candidate will announce
himself. The announcement of Mr.
| Hawkins, it is believed in political
j circles, will preclude the entrance into
! the race of Jacob Umlauf, who ran
j against Mayor Ainslie at the last pri
j niary, since it is assumed that both Mr.
1 Cmlauf and Mr. Hawkins would draw
their strength from approximately the
: same elements.
JURY MAKES MISTAKE
Accidentally Itcturim Verdict of "In.
Miine," Which Momentarily ItringN
Hope to .Murderer.
DKNVKK. COIj.. January 10.---J. c.
Bulger, convicted of the killing 011
May fi. 101-1. of Lloyd F. Nicodemus. a
Denver hotel man, was to-day declared
sane by a jury in District Court, which
was recently ordered by the. Colorado
Supreme Court to determine Bulger's
mental condition.
The verdict means tnat Bulger must
hang tho week of February 27.
As the Jury tiled in the clerk was
handed an envelope. He read: "We,
the jury, find that Jarnes C. Bulger at
the present time is insane."
Bulger smiled and iiis attorneys
turned to congratulate him.
Foreman Gardner arose and declared
a mistake had been made. "Tho wrong1
slip was put in the envelope," he said.
Amid the consternation that followed,
Judge W. I). Wright ordered tho men
to return to the Jury-room.
Presently a verdict of "sane" was
returned.
YOKK KIVKH I,INK TO ItAl.TIMOKK
$2.fi0 one way; $4.fi0 round trip. New
steuinerH. lOxcellc-nt meats, moh food. State
rooms. private liatliM, etc. I.eave Itli-hmond
(>.10 V. At. I'hone Mndison
HOUSTON WILL BE i
SPEAKER OF HOUSE'
Browning Withdraws From Race,
Leaving Clear Field to Dele
i gate From Hampton.
;HOUSE TO CAUCUS TO-NIGHT
I Jordan and Meetze in Close Con
test for House Caucus
Chairmanship.
! Browning Telegraphs
His Congratulations
llrtCKMli' llnrry l(. Houston, ^iiihII
<1iU<? for Sitrnkcr ol tin- House of
DclfKiitc*, rri'rlvfil jf.itiTiliij- ninrii
I n a llii1 follntvlnur Iclcurntii from
linirei' I.. llriiH nliili, tin* -ily other
' <MUKII<I11I<*:
Orn ??(?<>, \ 11.,
.Inmiiiry Hi 111:40 \. M.I.
Hon. Ilnrr.v It. Houston. Itli-liinniul:
My ntiiiK* ?>lll not ko before llir
ciiiiciim. M11 y jour iiiliiiinlst ration of
tin* liluli ?iIII???* lie n Kim-elm from iie
IctnnliiK to ??iul. to mIiIi-Ii I sluill li<i|ie
to contribute.
?;i:t?it(.i: 1,. iiiiuwmm,.
Delflgate Cieorpe I. lirowiiinK. of
Orange, lust night definitely :iu!liuri%c<l
the statement that In; was not a can
didate for flection as Speaker of the
House, thorcfliy leaving a clear field
for I >el<igate Harry !{. Houston, of
Hampton. No other candidate has been
suggested, and Mr. Houston will, there
i fori, be nominated Speaker at to
night's House caucus by a unanimous
vote.
While it had coni> generally to be
' recognized that' enough members had
been enrolled under the Houston ban
ner to insure his election, Mr. lirowtiing
had an influential following, and the
situation still held an element of con
test. The formal withdrawal of Mr.
Hrownlui; clarifies the situation, and
there will no drawing of lines.
NOT C \MMIJ.\TI-; FOII
I'll A lit MA \ (IK < A I CIS
Incidentally, also, Mr. Hrowning said
that he would not be a candidate for
the chairmanship of the House caucus.
' While niv friends have been very
kind and asked me to allow my name
to be put in nomination," said Mr.
Hrowning last night, "I cannot see my
way clear to do so. I have a warm
friend who wiM be a candidate for the
I position, and I feel that I ought to
lay aside my personal ambitions this
time and support him."
Two-thirds of the members who ? ,im
pose the General Assembly of 15IC w/>re
j registered at the hotels last night, and
to all intents and purposes the new
I session was underway. There were no
roll calls and no formal convening, hut
there were caucuses galore ami con
claves i:i hotel rooms without num
ber.
At Murphy's Hotel, for a irei'ora t'.~>n
the clearing-house ot' political thought
during legislative sessions, the gather
ing of bigger and lesser lights of the
political firmament took on tnidsession
(proportions. I'.y 10 o'clock at night the
1 lobby held a throng of lawmakers, new
and old. representing every faction that
I will figure in the oncoming session.
hxactly half of the Senate, is new
j this year, and only forty-three of the
100 House members who served during
| the tax session last winter have been
(returned. While many of the new men
j have had legislative experience, most
of them face their first session of the
General Assembly. .
j 01.i> mi:x chai'i:u(i\
i,i:t;isi,ATin: hkhi taxtks
I'nder these circumstances, last
night's foregathering of the clans
i lacked to a degree the spirit of cam
araderie that characterized the pre
, session convention last year, when the
i lawmakers had a fund of common ex
j periem es in the last preceding session
i to draw upon. There were introduc
1 tions without end. the veterans wno
have been returned playing the part
of chaperons to the flock of legisla
tive debutantes.
Hut many of the debutantes are
j shrewd men of affairs, and introduc
tions led swiftly to the discussion of
the immediate problems that will cn
front the Democratic members at to
night's Senate and House caucuses.
Party loaders worked overtime to re
duce to a semblance of order the Demo
cratic program, and before the members
turned in for the night the caucus
j drama was reasonably well rehearsed.
' At Murphy's during the midevening
the legislative atmosphere bristled
I with promises and predictions. Behind
every marble pillar was a private
I caucus of four or five members, and
in the parlors the leaders held re.^ep
1 tions to the faithful.
KMICTION OK 11(11 STON
as sim:aivi:h Asst ition
: Out of the babel one thing arose as
universally conceded?the election of
; Delegate Harry H. Houston, of llamp
j ton. ns Speaker. Of all the ponderous
gossip about ollices ami the men who
, will be selected to fill them, the assump
tion that Mr. Houston will bo nomi
| 11 a ted bv to-night's House caucus alono
? remained undisputed
Somewhat less certain was the
spreading assumption that Delegate O.
IS. Jordan, of I'ulaski. will be elected
to-mght as chairman of the House
caucus. Friends of Mr. Jordan con-!
I ducted an active canvass, and late last
j night made the statement that sufheient'
votes were in sight to insure his elec- ;
1 ' ion. This conclusion was disputed by I
1 the supporters of Delegate. C. J.1
Meetze, or Prince William, who t.-isI
been an avowed candidate for the hooor!
ever since the adjournment of the spe-|
: cial session.
MIMItmon FIGHT FOII
t'A UOi;S CIIA lit M A \SII ll'S I
I While there Is no rule to this effect,!
| It has been tho practice for years tnj
(Continued on Second Page.)
SETTLEMENT ONLY
When Proper Phraseology Is
Found, Lusitania Incident
Will Be Closed.
OUTLOOK IS ENCOURAGING
Method of Expression Satisfac
tory to Washington and
Berlin Is Sought.
\\ AS1I IN< IT< >N, Janiiarv 1 <> I >if
tlculty in agreeing upon details is
holding up final settlement <>f the
iaitdtania controversy. C>imt von
1 !<*rnstorff, 111?* German atnl?ass;i<lor,
ami Secretary Lansini: hail another ?<>n
ferenco to-day. and it was said later
tliat no final agreement liad been
reached. although the outlook was en
couraging.
Willie the United Slates and G<r- 1
many virtually have agreed upon the i
essential principles involved. It was
learned to-night that until a method!
of expressing theso firinciples satisfae*
torily to both sides is found. annotiti<-<>
ment of a settlement will he withheld.'
''ount von liernstorfT was informed, in
effect, hy Secretary Lansing during to
day's conference that the wording of
the tentative proposal submitted last
week, ami since considered by I'resi
dent Wilson, was inadequate in certain 1
respects. ,
kkiii.im; OK optimism
IN DIPl.OMATir Cllll Mis
. A feel in i; of optimism regardlmr the
ultimate outcome of the negotiations
j apparently prevails both in ottleial and
teutonic diplomatic cireles. It is free.
, '-v predicted that a settlement accept
j able to both governments should be
reached by next .Monday, unless un
, foreseen events Intervene.
My Monday Count von Uernstorff
should receive a reply to a dispatch
prepared to-night for the German Kor
einn Office, which is understood to
have contained suggestions from the
i United States.
i These suggestions, it was authorita
j lively stated, had to do solely with
questions involved in the subject of
reprisal and the British, blockade of
; Germany, which the United States and
Germany both declare to be illegal.
I M POHTA \T HOMi PI.AYKI)
iiv pi'iii,ic opinion
< onsideration of public opinion in
the United States and in Germany is
. understood to be playing an Important
part in hastening a settlement. Ger
many contends that the destruction of
the Lusitania was an act of reprisal,
and, while deploring the fact that
Americans lost their lives in I he com
mission of the act. at the same time
considers that public opinion in Ger
many would adversely criticize any ac
tion wl i.-h would admit the illegality
of torpedoing the vessel under the cir
, cums-tances. Germany also is said to
???.mit the right of neutrals to protec
tion and safety, in a word, the Merlin
government is understood to insist
upon a form of settlement which denies
ih.it it was illegal to sink the Lusitania,
but admits it was wrong for that act
to cost tht' lives of Americans.
, It i:- said that no definite agreement
in regard to indemnity has yet been
J reached. Germany has agreed to pay
, an indemnity, and this, it is believed,
will be considered sutlicient for the
present. No sum has been agreed upon,
nor had i; been determined whether
1 he amount shall l>e fixed by a com
! mission or otherwise.
DEMAND EMPLOYMENT
IVrwinn Tlirnvtn Out of Work aw He-1
Milt of Prohibition Hold
Ma km-Meeting;.
l'EXVKR, COL., January 10.?A mass- \
, meeting, followed by a demonstration !
j on the State Capitol grounds and a j
parade, was held here to-day by sev- j
, eral hundred people, representing per- !
sons unemployed as a result of pro- i
? hihltion.
Resolutions were presented to Gov- !
| ernor George A Carlson by a commit-i
| tee headed by William Koch, secretary '
j of the llrewery Workers' Union, asking j
that ati extra session of the Legisla
? ture be called to devise means of fur
nishing employment for those deprived
of their positions.
; The Hcnver Labor Council recently
l estimated the number of persons
thrown out ot employment through pro
l hihition in Menver and those depeii
! dent upon them at ."i.OoO.
NEW TRIAL IS SOUGHT
| Guvrriimcfif Will Ask for Another
Hearing In \r?v lliivrn ?on
Npiraey ?'iihc.
WASHINGTON*, .1 nnuary 10.?The Oe- I
fpartment of 'Justice. it became known'
j to-night, will move very soon for a'
new trial of the. live former directors!
of the New Vork, New Haven and Hart-'
i ford Railroad Company, charged w.th
'conspiracy to monopolize the rnilronii!
jtrallic of New Hngland, in whose cases'
a Jury in the Federal court at New I
Vork disagreed.
Attorney-General Gregory stated to-!
day that he would confer tills w.-e|{1
; with R. I,. Halts, of counsel for tne
I government in the cases.
STUDENTS COMING HOME ;
About Klfly Member* nf Kuril Peace'
HvpedHinii W111 Sail for .New '
\ ork T(i-I)n).
TIIK 11 AG I' 10, .la Hilary III (via I.on-!
[ don).--Ulfty students, members of -hej
Kord peace expedition, left to-day for}
[ Rotterdam, from where lliey will sail'
to-morrow on the steamer Noordnni!
for New York. About 100 American!
members of llio expedition remain in
The Hague. Most of them will s?||
for the United States on January lf?
The members of the. Permanent
Peace Hoard will remain here with the1'
members of the board from tlio other
neutral nations.
Commons Unanimous in Urging
Stronger Pressure as Means
to Victory.
WHOLE POWER TO BE USED
Government Called Upon to Con
sult Its Dominions as to
Best Methods.
1'XI'?January 10. The debate in
the House of Commons to-night was
chiefly remarkable f<? t the unatiin ity
of the MH'inlicrs in urging tin; govern
ment to exert ?li<- largest possible de
gree of economic pressure on Germany
ami in recommending lh:ut st eps .should
he immediately taken to prevent my
inennre from German trade warfire di
rected against the entente allies after
peace is signed.
A resolution was passed, without di
vision. "that, with a view to increasing
the power of the sillies in the prosecu
tion of tlie war. His Majesty's govern
nient should enter into initoediate coij-;
saltation with the governments of the
dominions, in order, with their aid. toi
bring the whole ccunotnic strength of
the empire, in co-operation with the
allies, in a policy directed against The
enemy."
MAKKS POSITION <1.i:\lt
OX CO>ll?l I.SION POI.lt 'V
The principal speech was made by
| Walter Huncim.m, president of the
Hoard of Trade, whose emphatic decla
rations on the importance of maintain
ing I'ritlsli trade were rcirai'ilcil as
largely directed toward making clear
the position which caused him to hesi
tate to indorse Premier Asquith's com
pulsion policy last week.
"While the war is on." he said, "we
must do everything in our power to
(cripple and destroy German finance,
j credit and trade, at the same time
building up our own and our allies'
.and laying the foundation for future
! action when peace comes.
j "There tire signs that at last Gf-r
' many is beginning to feel the economic
pressure of our blockade. Her food
?supplies are becoming depleted, while
ours are increasing. Our exports have
i fallen and our imports have risen;
' there is no doubt that the economic
1 strength of England is so well founded
that we can stand the strain better
than Germany.
Hread riots in Merlin und in nearly
j every other city do not occur without
j reason. \\ c have deprived the enemy
I of many necessities of warfare, .??nil
! possibly some of the necessities of lite
, Her stocks of raw materials are r.iv
, ing out. Kconomic pressure, possibly
better than any other means, will u'll
? matcly persuade Germany of the fru.t
lessness of continuing the struggle,
i KXfiLAM) CAN STAND STH AI.V
l.ONOKIt THAN <;K
| "We can stand the strain longer than
Germany." continued Mr. Ituncinvin.
anil it we husband our resources the
disaster that will fall upon |u.r wi,,j
] he almost irreparable. We must make'
; it clear, however, that when peace
comes we will not permit the outbreak
I of the economic war which Germany
j would wage against our allies anil
I against ourselves."
| To this, John Mackinder, Unionist:
j for Glasgow, replied, expressing the!
affection of Great Britain for America, j
"The member has spoken of America:
as a dangerous commercial rival," he!
said, "but I cannot conceive t>t that
! competition taking the complex, scieti
| title and destructive form of Germany's!
I competition."
The last half-hour of the session was!
j devoted to a discussion of Moyili
j George's suppression of the Glasgow*
! Labor paper. Forward. l.loyd Gcovge'
<1 noted extracts from the paper, begin-!
ning in July. Some of tlic-m contained'
offensive references to the King: others;
declared that the war had been en-!
gendered by capitalists merely to in-1
crease their profits.
??n the day that he visited Glasgow!
the paper contained an attack on 'lie
Derby recruiting scheme that, the:
minister declared, was "one of the most
insidious appeals to the working cla.- :*-s
not to enlist which I ever read."
Several members characterized the
incident s.s unfortunate. The discus
sion was still under nay when the
! louse adjourned.
Premier As<iulth announced that lie
would allow two days for debate on
the second reading of the compulsion
bill, beginning to-morrow.
KENYON JOINS DEMOCRATS
lie I rge.s I'iinsiikc of Itlll ?<> Give
Greater Sclf-Govrniiitciil to
Philippine)!.
WASHINGTON. January in Debate!
oil the hill to grant the people <?f the
Philippine islands a greater degree of
self-government continued in the Sen
ate to-day, St tut tor Keiiyon, Itepuhli- j
can. joining with Democratic Senators !
in urging .ts passage.
Senator Gronna urged that the meas-j
ure he amemletl to provide prohibition!
for the Filipinos. Senator Kenyoti ex- !
plained that, under the present laws, !
li'juor was available only to the in
hahltauts.
Senator Hitciicock. chairman of the
Philippine Committee, opened the de-1
bate with a defense of the present ad- I
ministration of the islands.
SLIGHT HOPE REMAINS
.
IIIiicmn of General llucrln l? Critical.'
ti lid II Im Dciifli In 10 \
pectril.
I'M, PAS< i, TK.V. January 10.?Silglit
hope for the recovery of General Vic
t or la no lluerta remains to-night, /c
cordlng to Dr. M. p. Schuster, his
pliyslciau. Dr. Schustei said his pa-|
tlent was gradually losing strength,
and thai his illness had reached a
critical stage. J
Divergent Reports
From Mesopotamia
Til 10 Iri'KliMi In Krnnce,
Montenegro unil \Mluti<- 'lurki-.?
nr<> iIn- IhcnlcrN of ?nr that nrr nil
MorhliiK KrriilPNt title ntliin. In nil
nf them lifllty liKlitiiiK in Ink
injr |ilnrr. Tlic Itiinwlau iilTrntlvp
iimiliiMt the 'IViiimis in lOnnt t.nlielii
mill Yolliy llltl ha* eiime almost to
ii m I si ml s 111 la Tin1 ItiiHHlmiH there
lire i-<mini>I Ida t in*; till* iiiikIiIiiiii they
ivnii, ami are tiicellnif nltli tittle
renlMtailiee from tlieir ?iiitliKonlxtH.
\f(er tin* tiiTinniiM liml taken
??limit -HO .viirili nf Kreneh trenelieN
in t'linm |niu ne In mi nlTeiiMlve
laiim-hed tilth Inrice iiiimherN of
men, nltli tin- Intention of nhtnlnliiK
Important results, till* Kreneh, ne
eiirillnn to I'nrlM. Mto|i|M'il the lit tuck
short, mill in vleitMia eounterattaeks
rroeeupied Miieeessl vely nearly all
tin* ferritin loMt. In ndilltliHl. on the
ht'iultf* of the Meime, a lietivy
Kreneh huiiihnrilmeiit tlitl uronl ilnm
iiKe to tieriiinii trenehex.
The situation In MrM<>|?nliiiiiiii.
where the llrltlNli ami TurkM are
eUKNited nlotiK the Tl?rl* Itlver, I*
Mill not elenr, owlni; to the diver
gent reports of l.utidon ami t'on
stnnt itiople. W hilt* the llrltlsli ntiy
that the Turk* n ron ml Kut-el
A in ara tire in ret rent, a Turk lull
fonumiiiiftil Ion deelnre* that it In
the llrltinli n ho are falling Itaek,
nnil that u foree of lu.notl llrltlsli
left in Kut-el-A mttrn Im surrounded.
Alleged to Have Started Youngs
town Trouble With View tt?
Depressing Prices.
\\ OL'LI) MAKE MKItUI'JIt POSSIHLK
Sensational Statement Issuetl by (ion.
era! Organizer of American Feder
ation of Labor?He Will Be Called
to Testify Hefore Grand Jury.
"V OL'XOSTOW'.V. O., January 10.
Opening of the grand Jury Investiga
tion (if the strike and riot |n East
1 mingntowii. the resumption of work
.'it the plant of the Youngstown Sheet
ami Tube Company and the ordering
home of the Fourth ?{??triniom of the
Ohio National Guard. called out for
striIcq duty, were the developments in
the situation ht\re to-day.
| Quiet prevailed in the'vlohmy or the
. tube works, and employees who re
ported for duty to-day were not mo
lested. either when entering or leaving
the plant. There were no pickets in
evidence, and the crisis in the situa
tion is believed to have passed.
Many witnesses were examined by
the grand Jury during the day, but. ac
cording to Prosecuting Attorney A. At
Henderson, no report will be made until
the latter part of tin.- week, and many
more will be called before lite probe
is completed.
Si : X NATION a I. STATIC>1 K\T
IIV ClOVIOIt A I. jlitti VM'/.Klt
l'liomas m. Flynn. general organizer
of the American Federation of Labor,
who returned here from Pittsburgh to
day. Issued a statement to-night, in
which he charged that the rioting here
last week was a financial schcme to
depress the value of stock o' the
Young-stowti Sheet and Tube Company,
so that a merger of ludepentlcnt steel
Interests can be effected
"We have evidence that we regard
as conclusive, proving to us that this
entire trouble was caused by paid slim
?ers. brought to Kast Youngstown by
the Youngstown Sheet and rube Corn
pany, .Mr. Flynn charged In the state
ment. "The gunmen who did the
shooting were residents of Pittsburgh.
We understood that these gunmen,
twenty-five in number, were deputized
by Sheriff I'mstead. If this is so, the
Sheriff violated the law.
"I do not think there was any for
eign Influence involved. 1 think it was
a financial scheme, rigged ti(i as the
last desperate resort to depress the
value of the tube work's stock, cc that
interests that are trying to form a
great $5.00,000,000 merger could get the
control they wanted.
C'A.v imovriKi si.t't;<;ioits
IlltOI"tillT Klto.M tlTIIK.lt IM.At lOS
"1 have seen sluggers here that I
can identify as sluggers that have
operated in other places. I know these
men were brought here for this job.
This whole thing was engineered by
financiers. Organized labor der amis
that this rotten tiling be investigated
to the finish."
Prosecuting Attorney Henderson said
that Mr. Flynn would i>e called before
the grand Jury to repeat his charges
under oath.
At ilit* office of the tube company it
was claimed that about S00 men had
returned to work
The Federal investigation* were
started here to-day, tin* first t.oorge
A. West, of Washington, I), irepre
senting the Federal Commission on In
dustrial Relation*. Postal Inspectors
arc also investigating the robbing and
burning of tin- post-olllce in Kast
Youngstown on Friday nlghr. t con
nection with which six men already
have been arrested.
Persistent reports to-night j.nid that
the strikes in the plants of the
Youngstown Sheet and Tuho Company
and the )tepuhli>* Iror and Steel Com
pany in Kast Yourigst iw n, StruthOis
and l.an.singvilie, affecting IS.000, had
been seltled. Confirmation wis Impos
sible.
Counsel for persons whose homes and
places of business were burned by the
mol>, resulting in a loss estirriated at
more than $1,000,000, said they would
he unable to collect any damages. In
surance companies will not pay. it is
held, and neither the State nor county
can be held liable.
AT I. A NT A -III KM INtt II A.M-N 10 W OK. 10 V \ S !
ASH 10\ I I.I K- M KM I'll IS.
Three triilns ilmlv, hi SO \ \i ?; r \f ami I
11:1ft IV M.. via HOPTHioitX i;y pull,
Sleeping t"arn, t'onches. I'lione .Mail -J'.'. '
Flotilla of Aeroplanes Causes
Considerable Damage in
Bulgarian Capital.
HEAVY FIGHTING CONTINUES
ON VARIOUS WAR FRONTS
Austrians Are Generally Suc
cessful in Their Campaign
Against Montenegro.
Ci'KltMAX ATTACKS KKI'l LSK1)
London Says Turkish Forces Are
Defeated l?y British Itc-I'.n
forconients.
i
I .ON I >ON". January 1 <V?<1 in patch to
, the Kxehango Telegraph from Kaloniki
sa.\s that a Hot ilia of French ai*rop!a lies
i has dropped bombs mi Sofia. causing
j considerable damage and an indoscrib
ahie panic among; the inhabitants of
the Bulgarian capital.
While the Russian front has been
?inir?t the past twenty-four hours, thorn
has hoen severe fighting in tho other
war theaters.
< ?n the Montenegrin front the Aus
trians have hoen generally successful.
; They have advanced their positions at
mc vara I points, despite the handicap of
snow waist deep, and are showing
themselves Just, as adept as the Monte
| ttegrins in mountain lighting. which
| heretofore has hcen retarded as tho
' particular specialty of the Montenegrin
I soldiers.
KOI It til-:iiM.\\ ATTACKS
i?kim i.si:i) in ihkmh
In Champagne the French have re
pulsed four <lerman attacks. The tier
j mans, however, have retained a foot
i hohl at two places in tho French ad
| vanced trenches.
i In Persia, British re-enforcements,
| on their way to the relief of Kut-el
Amara. have met Turkish forcos, which
, were compelled to retire after some
heavy lighting.
The Petrograd otlicial communication
says that tho calm on the Cxernowitss
i ftont is duo to the huge losses and
resulting demoralization of the Austro
Hungarian army. That there Is some
basis for this statement is evident from
the estimate of 'lie Hungarian news
paper. Pester Lloyd, that the losses on
both sides of the Bcssurnhinn battles
so far exceed 175,000, or more than tho
total British losses in the whole I?ar
danelles campaign.
Another Hungarian newspaper stales,
on the authority of a staff report, that
the fighting on this front has been tho
bitterest and bloodiest in the history
1 of the war, both sides sacrificing men
in a manner without parallel.
A Kit OIM,A NI-: S K I It M IS.! i:s
ON SAI.OMKt KHOXT
The Kaloniki front is chiefly notable
in the day's dispatches as the scene of
almost continued aeroplane skirmishes,
one of which continued for two hours.
The Germans have thus far lost six
aeroplanes in this region.
The rumor that the consuls of the
Teutonic allies arrested in Kaloniki had
been released appears to have been
without founda.ion. as it is now an
nounced that they have boon trans
. ferrod to a French auxiliary cruiser, on
1 which they have hoen interned. Ex
l tensive reprisals are already announced
I by the central powers.
! The situation in Albania was thus
summed up to-day by Lord Robert
j Cecil, Under-Secretary for Foreign Af
fairs, in i,if? House of Commons:
j "I regret to say that it is impossible
to speak of Albania as friendly at
present. In the central area, over
which Kssad l'asha s authority extends,
I i he relations betweeo the Serbian sol
diers and the population have been
friendly, and Kssad Pasha has ren
dered them valuable assistance. The
northern tribes, among whom tho
1 enemy has conducted a considerable
propaganda, are hostile to tho Ser
bians and .Montenegrins."
A 1,1. A V A II.A 111.10 Tit (Mil's
AUK III SIIKII to fJ A I.ICt A
Several lengthy dispatches linvn been
received here giving details of tho re
cent operations in Eastern Galicla,
i which were so ineagerly described in
tho official reports. According to these
dispatches, the Russians, after artil
lery preparations, which showed there
was no Idngcr any shortage in their
big-gun ammunition, started an offen
sive which caused the Austro-tJertujih
leaders to rush every available division
to Calicia.
t. zcrnowifz is still in the possession
of Austrians. and is tilled with
wounded. Put the Pussians apparently
are directing their main attack agaii.st
Sadagora.
In the Balkans reports indicate tli.tt
the Ptilgarlans are concentrating on
Monastir, preparatory to an attack on
Kaloniki. but this has become of sec
ondary importance to the attacks by
flic Austrians hi Macedonia. Tho
formidable Austrian forces invadln ;
Montenegro extend over a wide front,
I roin i hi: River Tara. in the west. I ?
the lpek district, in the east.
ITAI.IA \ I VTKH \ KNTION
H \ S < OMK TOO I.A 1 i:
It cannot be disguised that the in
vasion is causing great uneasiness
among the ent< nte powers, and espe
cially Italj. winch sees in Its success
an eial to Italy s dream of dominating
II ' Albanian littoral of the Adriatic.
I he Italian neu spape's, in expressing
the opinion that an Austrian smccch
ait iinst Montenegro would give the in
\iider an incalculable political, marine
and strategical effect, admit that Italy's
Intervention into tho Balkan campaign
has come too late.
>1 KSOI'OTA M IA It KIMUt I S
NTH,I, AT VA IlIANCK
\.MKT FRO AM tvla l.ondon). .lanuary
10.?A British force, which appar
ently on tho way to re-enforce the
