i r
unMitiert /"\ f r* ' ~UJf'
5^5! rt" h<) ipti^trttrif' ^ ST^Vi 1wm"
.rasags* |j wljv (^Alvl111ULj '- < ^
CLOSING MEW tORK STOCKS PAGE IB. c -/ 1MB. Daily inraft, 74,4111; Saaday, M.IU2.
No. 20.104. WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, JANUARY 11. 1916. ? TWENTY 1'AGES. * ONE CENT.
HOUSE COMMITTEE
ON D. HOTS BUSY'
Subcommittee Assignments
Are Parceled Out by Representative
Johnson.
r-am w ? ? ? ?** /mi nmirtfti
t AnLT blAKI UIM iUhUUL
BILLS NOW IS PROSPECT
Chairman Lloyd Calls Meeting for
Friday?Education Board Explains
Estimates.
Members of the House District comtoittce
rolled up their sleeves for actual
work today; Chairman Johnson
parceled out the subcommittee assignments,
and Representative Uoyd of
Missouri, appointed chairman of the
committee on education, gave notice
that his subcommittee would meet Friday.
This means an early start on the bills
submitted by the Commissioners to
abolish the board of education and
centralize the control of the schools in
the hands of the Commissioners.
Members of the District committee
look forward to a good, hard fight on
the matters concerning education, and
for (he moment the renter of interest
is in that fight, while the important de\elopments
concerning the District
finances and the recommendations of
the joint fiscal committee report await
the completion of bills by Representative
Johnson of Kentucky and Representative
Rainey of Illinois.
Details of Estimates Explained.
While the District committee was
being given its tasks for the session
i' Pinh?>r? nf tho Im-i r il ?,f nliir-'itinn :
w*??e explaining the details of their
estimates to the subcommittee un-ler
Phairman Page. in charge of the District
appropriation bill. President
Blair. John B. Barrier and Mrs. Rhodes
were the members of the board who
appeared. At the morning session only
routine and details of figures were oiscussed.
The District committee adopted a
resolution that all subcommittee meetings
and hearings should be held in
the committee room. Representative
Mapes of Michigan is preparing a resolution
that the committee meetings
shall be open unless otherwise voted,
and that a record vote on closing the
meetings from the public shall be I
taken in each case, and that one mem- I
ber may demand a record vote.
Subcommittee Assignments.
The subcommittee assignments are as j
follows:
Judiciary ? Representative Vinson, J
chairman, and Representatives Wilson.
Eagle, Mapes and Tinkham.
Assessment and taxation?Representative
Bailey, chairman, and Representatives
Ragsdale, Lloyd, Jfilliard, Grosser.
Wheeler, Oakev and Darrow.
Telephones and telegraphs?Representative
Lobeck. chairman, and Representatives
Ragsdale. Wheeler. Lloyd,
Uakev, Milliard. Darrow and Grosser.
Gas?Representative Hamill. chairman.
and Representatives Lobeck, Gary,
Dooling. Gould, Aiken and Oakey.
Electricity ? Representative Eagle,
chairman, and Representative Milliard,
Gary, Liovd and Tinkham.
Water and water power?Representative
Hilliard, chairman, and Representatives
Ragsdale, Gould, Wilson and
Oakey.
Health?Representative Carey, chairman.
and Representatives Lobeck,
Wheeler. Dooling and Tinkham.
Education ? Representative Lloyd,
hair man. and Representatives Ragsdale.
Focht. Eagle, Mapes and Vinson.
Street railways?Representative Grosser.
chairman, and Representatives
Vinson. Aiken, Wheeler arid Darrow.
Streets and avenues?Representative
Ragsdale, chairman, and Representatives
Eagle. Aiken, Mapes and Wheeler.
Police and firemen?Representative
Wilson, chairman, and Representatives
Vinson, Aiken, Focht and Gould.
l^abor?Representative Dooling. chairman,
and Representatives Hamill,
Aiken, Gary and Focht.
WOULD SLASH SALARIES
flC CCncoil rum owi-?
ur rtucnHL crvirLUTLS
Sei.ator Sheppard's Bill Would
Strike Those in High and
Low Positions.
The salaries of employes of the government.
civil and military, including
members of Congress, would be reduced
temporarily for the benefit of the depleted
United States Treasury if a bill
Introduced in the Senate today by Senator
Sheppard of Texas should become
a law. The bill, in a preamble, recites
the fact that owing to the Kuropean
w%tr and the falling off in customs receipts
due to the war the Treasury is
depleted. The reductions in salaries
would range from 1 2 per cent on those
above $0,000 to 2 per cent on those
from $1,200 to $1,500.
Another bill introduced by Senator
Sheppard provides that hereafter the
mileage for senators and representatives
in Congress shall be 5 cents a
! mile instead of 20 cents, as under existf
Ing law. This renews the old fight
which has waged over mileage in the
t*? rate and Mouse for many years.
CHILDREN BEING DEFRAUDED.
Court Pointi Out Theft of Guardians
Without Bonds.
NKW YORK. January 11.?Surrogate
Fowler i? authority for the statement
tWit 4C per cent of the guardians of
children's estates who, under the laws
of 1914 and 191a. have been permitted
b> The surrogate's court here to serve
without bond, have defrauded the estates
of their charges. The surrogate
announces that he will refuse henceforth
to designate any guardian for an
Infant without ample security. Commenting
on the action of the guardians,
the surrogate said:
"If we were to call them to account,
having no security, they would not respond
and to commit them to jail for
disobedience would be a public charge.
These children thus defrauded are now
beginning to complain to iViis court,
b::? their cries must fall on a deaf ear,
as. where no bonds have been required
of the guardians, they are personally
iri ^sponsible.*'
Child Labor Legislation Urged.
Senator Uallinger of New Hampshire
today presented to the Senate a petition
fronn the Stenographers. Typewriters,
' Bookkeepers and Assistants' Association.
No. 11773, of the A. K. of 1... Washington.
D. C. favoring the prevention
f tho employment of child labor and
rgtng legislation along this line at
the present session of Congress.
V
SINGLE TERM TALK
WORRIES LEADERS
Democratic Senators and
Representatives Discussing
Mr. Wilson's Renomination.
BELIEVED THAT MR. BRYAN
WILL LEAD OPPOSITION
Suggestion That Appeal Be Made to
the People. Through Primaries,
for Decision.
j
r>emocratic senators and representatives
are much wrought up by the current
flurry over the revival of the agitatiop
favoring one term for President,
but at the Capitol today it was thought
the situation will be solved by consideration
and operation of some practical
facts.
The principal one of these is realization
that the President has a technical
advantage if he decides not to yield to
the paltform declaration in favor of
one term by suggesting that the party
plank was declaration of a principle,
and that until that principle is enacted
into law it is not devolvent upon him
to quixotically immolate himself to a
theory.
It is claimed that Mr. Bryan himself
once declared in writing that the oneterm
plank was onlv^a declaration of
policy and should not be binding upon
any individual until legislation had effected
the policy.
Neglected to Legislate.
The democrats have been in control
| of both branches of Congress since
; that declaration of policy was made,
j and have not yet passed even the prej
iiminary resolution to submit to the
stales the proposed amendment to the
' Constitution which, when ratified, would
'effect the policy.
| Why, then, the Presidents friends
ask. should it be expected of him that
he should yield to a mere theory, not
yet adopted by the lawmaking branch
which his own party controls, and step
aside, when there is no moral certainty
that any other aspirant for the nomination
to succeed him would be controlled
by the same theory?
"1 shall approach the question from a
perfectly impersonal point of view,
wrote President Wilson, in his letter
addressed to A. Mitchell Palmer, 'be
a use I shall most cheerfully abide by
the judgment of my party and the public
as to whether I shall be a candidate
lor the presidency again in lOlfi. 1 absolutely
pledge myself to resort to
nothing but public opinion to decide
that question."
Suggest a Way Out.
The President s friends at the Capitol
suggested today that one effectual
method of such an expression of public
opinion will be the selection of delegates
to the national convention by
primary elections in many of the states,
begining as early as March and coming
to a close shortly before the meet
'"fi *-"'5 lu'"" vvu??;iii?wii.
! By that time, it was said, the wishes
j of a large mass of the people will he
very definitely expressed upon the
point, whether they desire Wood row
Wilson to run again or whether they
think he should conform to the oneterm
policy, no", yet ratified, and retire.
It is generally believed around the
Capitol that William J. Bryan will oppose
the President, using the one-term
plank as his weapon. It is known to
many at the Capitol that if President
Wilson declines to run Champ Clark
will get into the race, and it is assumed
that Bryan will back him. rotwithstanding
the Baltimore opposition.
Next Moves in the Game.
The next moves in the game will be,
it is said, for the upholders of the oneterm
policy to busy themselves and secure
a preliminary expression, if only
partial, upon the Wilson renomiriation,
and when that is done the President
will be aided in reaching a decision
upon whether he is being supported by
the people or not.
GERMANS BEATEN BACK,
IS CLAIMED BY PARIS
Berlin, on the Other Hand. Reports
Failure of French
Attacks.
PARIS. January 11. via I.ondon. 3:50
p.m.?The French official report of
this afternoon states that the German
offensive, undertaken Sunday in Champagne
by at least three German divisions
was a complete failure, the
Germans being driven out of all the
positions which they had seized, with
the exception of a small rectangle to
the wast of liaisons de Champagne.
Claims Repulse of French.
BERLIN. January 11, by wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.?The war office statement
of today says that French troops
in the Champagne were defeated In an
effort to recapture the trenches northeast
of Massiges which were taken by
the Germans in the offensive movement
reported yesterday. The number of
prisoners taken by the Germans has
been increased to 380.
A French battle aeroplane, armed
with 3.8 centimeter guns, was compelled
by German fire to land near
Woumen. south of Dlxmude, in Belgium.
The aeroplane and Its occupants,
uninjured, are In German hands.
A British biplane was shot down in an
a rial encounter near Tournal, Belgium.
REDMOND MAY RETIRE
FROM IRISH LEADERSHIP
IAJNDON. January 11.?John Redmond's
retirement from the leadership
of the nationalist party, and possibly
from parliament, is extremely probable,
according to the .Morning Post's Dublin
correspondent, owing to grave differences
of opinion within the party,
especially on the question of military
compulsion.
ATTACKS HIS PARTY;
PRA1SESPRESIDENT
Senator Newlands Expects
"Watchful Waiting" Alone to
Prevent Democrats' Defeat.
COLLEAGUES TOO RADICAL,
HE DECLARES IN SENATE
Asserts That War Came Opportunely
and Saved Country From Fatal
Business Depression.
Senator Xewlands of Nevada,
democrat, attacked his party's
record in the Senate today, delivering
a long; prepared speech
in which he criticised the tariff
and banking reforms?the chief
legislative achievements of the
Wilson administration.
lie declared that because there
had been industrial and commercial
depressions coterminus with
democratic control of legislation
the party would be in danger of
defeat at the next presidential
election unless the European war
continued and made the President's
"sagacious and firm"
handling of foreign affairs the
overshadowing issue.
Thinks,Party Too Radical.
:
Although h0 characterized the general
trend of democratic legislation as
commendable, the senator asserted tiiat
the party was too radical, and expressed
the conviction "that no political
party can hope to remain in power
which adopts radical instead of evolutionary
methods of reform."
Danger of a democratic defeat in the
congressional elections of he said, |
was averted only by the European war,
which brought into sudden contrast the
President's policy of watchful waiting
regarding Mexico with the mad haste
of the European nations as they rushed
into war, and made thai policy as
popular as it had theretofore been un- !
popular.
"The realization that similar prudence
would keep us out of the European ^
complications," he added, "saved the
] party at the last election trom me uel>at
which would have surely come us i
the result of the general prostration of j
business, popularly attributed to our I
economic legislation.
Cause of Pre-Bellum Depression.
"It would not do to charge this to the
European war, first, because that war,
though injurious to our production and
trade 111 its inception, has since become
a stimulant to production and export,
and second, because the commencement I
of this depression antedates the European
war and was extemporaneous
with our legislation regarding the tariff,
banking and trade.
We are about to face a united republican
party, chastened by adversity j
and eager to persuade, and the1 ques- j
tion is whether the democratic party, !
having done much under this administration
in the interest of genuine reform,
is again to be thrown out of
power and deprived of the opportunity
of continued usefulness simply because
an intervening period of depression j
subjects .us again to the charge of
'democratic hard times' with its accompanying
loss of votes.
Interests Hostile to Democrats.
"It is safe to say that the manufacturing.
the hanking and the large corporate
interests are hostile to the
democratic party, and that their employes
are also preparing to throw
their weight against it simply because
its administration has not brought good
times, but on the contrary has, in their
judgment, brought bad times.
"Regarding the tariff my view was
1 that our undertaking was not to im
mediately adopt a theoretically correct
tariff system, but simply to climb
gradually down from the protective
heights upon which the republican
party had placed the manufacturing'interests
of the country; not to jump
down at the risk of destruction, but to
climb down slowly and laboriously with
a view to preserving, as far as practicable.
every American industry and
injuring none.
Tying CTp of Productions.
"When we came to a practical realization
of what we had promised by legislation
we were^inclined, I thought, to
go too fast and too far.
"The effect of the tariff legislation was
what I feared it. would be. The tying up
of production in this country was the rct
suit not of malicious efforts of the manufacturers
to teach the country a lesson,
but of the caution and timidity which
can in many cases he proved to he without
reason, hut which nevertheless always
exist under like conditions.
"So also with hanking legislation. Instead
of providing some simple method
for mobilizing the banking reserves of
state and national banks under the control
of a non-partisan board or commission
resembling the interstate commerce
commission, which wouici gradually
through powers of Investigation, publicity,
correction and recommendation to
Congress, work out further reforms, we
are intent upon legislation which alarmed
the banks by the largeness of our proposals.
Wants Reserve Board Non-Partisans
"We failed to make the reserve board
non-partisan, tied it to an executive
department through the membership
of the Secretary of the Treasury and
' the controller, subjected the member
banks to the investigating and correctional
powers of a single partisan controller
Instead of the composite Judgment
of a quasi-Judicial non-partisan
board, and exacted additional and unnecessary
capital from member banks,
thus organising the reserve associations
into profit-making institutions, a
purpose entirely foreign to their nature
as protective organizations. The
result is that the union of banks is incomplete,
the state half being outside
and the national half inside the reserve
organization, with the prospect
that those outside will remain so unless
the law is modified.
"1 think it would be wise to shape
the way for legislation during the
next session by making the reserve
board non-partisan, merging the con'
troller s office with all the powers and
duties in the reserve board, and doing
away with alt capital requirements
' beyond the percentage of reserves of
1 member banks now required."
Senator Newlands said that while
, there was no need of hysteria upon the
subject of national defense, he favored
a rational^scheme of preparedness.
e
*
*>
NAVY MEN MAY TALK |
10 HOUSE COMMITTEE!
Any Desired Will Be Brought to
wasningtoii. becretary Daniels
Declares.
Any officer, enlisted man or civil employe
of the navy whose testimony Is
desired by the House naval affairs
committee will be immediately ordered
to Washington for that purpose. Sec- i
retary Daniels stated in a letter to j
Representative Britten made public to- <
day. During the hearings yesterday .
Representative Britten charged that the
Secretary was endeavoring to prevent (
free expression of the views of navy i t
officers. ! ,
Secretary Daniels' letter, which is i
dated January 8, is as follows: 1
"I have received your letter of the f
Ttn instant requesting the names of
'the various officers of the service it is *
your (my) intention to send before the1
naval affairs committee bn the 1917 j
naval appropriation bill.'
"In reply, it is not my intention 'to
send any officers or employes before 1
the committee on naval affairs.' The i i
| chiefs of bureau or the .Navy Depart-!]
ment will, I take it, appear before your J
committee in accordance with the es- j 1
tablished custom. As to the appear- J :
ance of other officers whose views may : <
be desired by the committee, any offi- ;
cer, civil employe or enlisted man in '
the navy will be ordered to Washing- I
ton upon the request of your commit- j
tee through its chairman." - ^
Will Send Fletcher Report. ?1
The Secretary is also preparing to transmit
to the Senate this week, in response
to the request contained in a resolution .1
adopted last week, the annual report of 1
Admiral Fletcher on the operations of the
Atlantic fleet during the year. While
that report contains some reference to
the recent war. game, it is not the special
report on the maneuvers submitted
by Admiral Fletcher at the time of discussion
of the game by the Navy War
| College.
Secretary Daniels said he understood
the Senate desired information as to Admiral
Fletcher's recommendation for in- .
1 creasing the personnel of battleships,
! which is included in his annual report.
He added that these reports of fleet commanders
had not heretofore been made
public by the department, but that he
could see no reason for withholding it
i from the Senate, as the President has the
| power to do in the public interest. The
j report, Mr. Daniel^ said, disclosed no 1
! r.avy secrets.
INTERNAL EXPLOSION i
MAY HAVE SUNK PERSIA:
' _e n i r 1. I
upinion ui vjovciiiixiciit .unpens ;
Based on Affidavits of the
Survivors.
Information contained in some of the
affidavits taken fi;om the Persia sur - j
vivors has caused government experts
here to consider the possibility that
the ship might have been sunk by an
internal explosion rather than by a
mine or a submarine.
No final opinion has been reached and
Secretary Lansing when asked about
that feature of the case after today s
cabinet meeting replied that no official
conclusion on the cause of the destruction
of the vesfvel had been made. He i
gaid no new details had been received.
The cabinet was in session more than J
two hours today and it was understood !
that the submarine question, including I
the Lusitania case, was discussed, j
President Wilson and Secretary Lan- ,
sing now are awaiting word from
Berlin on the Lusftania settlement. 1
They expect the case will be closed <
within the next week. {
Extension of German and Austrian 1
assurances regarding submarine war- ]
fare in the Mediterranean to their al- ?
lies is still under consideration, but It 1
was said today that no definite steps '
had been taken. ]
RUSSIANS HOLDING
STRATEGIC HEIGHT
Positions East of Stripa River
Now Deemed Secure
Against Recapture.
LONDON, January 11.?The Russians
retain the important strategic heights
n the neighborhood of Sadagora, north
if Czernowitz, Bukowina, says a 1'etro;rad
dispatch to the Times.
Although tlie recent snowfall hinders
operations, they are steadily and systematically
advancing and fortifying
their positions, until the extending
front comprises thirty-three miles of
the east bank of the Stripa river. This
front is now deemed secure against recapture.
Lull Only Temporary.
BERLIN, January 10, via London, Janlarv
11.?According to every indication.
the lull In the Russian attack on the
Bessarabian front during: the last twen- I
ty-four hours is only temporary. I)e- '
spite the enormous losses, which are
estimated as far exceeding: 50,000 dead
:>r wounded, new forces are known to
be moving:, with the purpose of reinforcing:
the attacking columns, and the
esuruption of the bitter assaults of the 1
iast few days is hourly expected.
Many Circassian groups ^re reported j
;is being sent to the front. Captured j
Russian officers declare that the Russian
emperor visited Trembowla. Galicia,
on the eve of the offensive, with
I he object of giving heart to his troops,
and delivered an order to break the
Austrian line at all <-ost. The officers
were assured that there were sufficient
troops to accomplish this.
Die by Emperor's Order.
The main attack thus far has been
directed against a hill named Fort
Baltin, in honor of Gen. Pflanzer-Baltin,
which the emperor personally ordered
taken. As a result, literally
thousands of Russian dead lie before
the Austrian trenches or hang suspended
on the wire entanglements. Entire
regiments were wiped out, while
Austrian losses are declared to have
been comparatively small.
Not only was the artillery ammuni- j
lion of the Russians almost exclusively j
:>f Japanese manufacture, but the rifles ,
if the Russian captives were Japanese
also.
CHARGED WITH TAKING BRIBE I
.. j
Former Illinois Mayor, Juror in
Alaska .Land Fraud Case, Accused.
CHICAGO. January 11.?O. IV. Bourke. !
former mayor of Blue Island. 111., a
suburb, is in the Cook county jail tolay
following: Jiis arrest last night by '
federal officials on a charge of accept- t
rig a $5,000 bribe. Bourke was one of
the jurors in the so-called Alaska land- 1
fraud cases in 3 913. 1
In April, 1913, Albert C. Frost, George ]
VI. Seward, Pierre G. Beach, George A. i
Ball and Frank Watson were acquitted *
>f the charge of conspiracy to defraud ;
he United States government out of \
;oal lands, the value of which was 1
several millions of dollars. The de- '
fendants were charged with making 1
use of "dummy entrymen" in an at- 1
tempt to gain control of coal lands in *
he Matanuska valley, Alaska.
Urge Taft for Lamar Vacancy.
NEW YORK. January 11.?a letter .
sinned by seven men who have been i
presidents of the American Bar Asso- 1
siation, four of whom are democrats s
ind three republicans, has been sent i
lo President Wilson urging him to ap- 1
point former President Taft to sue- (
-eed the late Justice Lamar on the 1
Lnlted States Supreme Court bench. 1
rhe letter also was signed by widely I
Ithown lawyers from fourteen states. i
s
I
" 1?
NEAR DECISION ON SITE
FOR NEW HIGH SCHOOL
Commissioners' Offer of $110,000
for East Capitol Street Plot
May Be Accepted.
A site for tlie new Eastern High
School may be acquired before the end
of the present week.
The Commissioners today confirmed a
report to the effect that they are endeavoring
to acquire by private purchase
the site between 17th. 19th. A and j
East Capitol streets. )
This is the same property upon which i
an award submitted by a condemnation '
commission, consisting" of M. M. Parker, i
Aulick Palmer and Thomas Gordon, j
was rejected by the Commissioners recently
on the ground that it was ex- j
eessive.
Congress appropriated $130,000 for a
site for the school. The commission's
award was $133,433.43. The property is
assessed on a valuation of $32,039.
$110,000 May Be Accepted.
Tt is understood that the Commissioners
have offered approximately $110,000
for the ground, and that all indications
point to the deal being consummated
within the next few days. If this price
is accepted, it will mean a saving to
the District of about $23,000, as compared
with what would have been paid
out on the basis of the commission's
award.
The Commissioners' estimates, now
before Congress, call for an initial appropriation
with which to begin work
on the school. If the property in question
is acquired and the appropriation
is allowed, work on the (building will
start about the first of July. It is said
the plans probably will be made by the
municipal architect's office.
INCREASE IN THE FARES
IS DECLARED JUSTIFIED
Increased commutation fares on the
Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washing- i
ton railroad between Baltimore and 1
Washington were declared to be justi- <
Red, In an opinion handed down by the ^
interstate commerce commission today.
The case was known as that of George
1'. Mace and others against the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company and others.
Commissioner Clements dissented from
the opinion of the majority of the commission.
The commission also held that it was
a violation of law to sell special-priced [
tickets for school children, and sug- '
gesis that the only relief in this regard {
lies in having Congress specifically in- j
elude such traffic within the classes to
which carriers may accord reduced
rates. In its current opinion, the commission
goes at length into the cost
of train operation, and says:
"The train service in this local traffic, ]
taken as a whole, does not appear to have
oeen remunerative, even when viewed as
i by-product of the main line passenger
business. In 1914 the number of commutation
passengers between Baltimore a
rnd Washington was 169,067, as against ?
175,004 non-commutation passengers. So f
hat while about 49 per cent of the total
lumber of passengers on these local trahis c
between Baltimore and Washington *
raveled on commutation tickets, only s
ihout 117 per cent of the revenues of these e
rains in that year was derived from the <
sale of commutation tickets."
j
Fewer Men in Berlin by 232.547. t
BERLIN, January 10. via London, f
January 11, 1:13 a.m.?The latest census
reports show that Berlins male v
population has decreased by 232,547 a
since July, 1914, due chiefly to the call- ?
ng of the men to the army. In females, c
lowever, the population is strongly in- i
;reasiug. The total population of Ber- c
in today is 1,637,869, as against the n
ligh-water mark of 2,095,030 in 1912 a
tnd 1,985,806 at the outbreak of the q
jvar. y
MOHR JURY HEARS
BRIEF STATEMENT
Prosecutor Makes Preliminary
Presentation of the State's
Expected Evidence.
WIDOW AND TWO NEGROES
ON TRIAL FOR KILLING
Rhode Island Physician Alleged to
Have Been Slain by Three
Hired Assassins.
PROVIDENCE, R. I.. January 11 ?
Before visiting: the scene of the murder
of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr the jury
selected yesterday to hear evidence in
the trial of his widow, Mrs. Elizabeth
F. Mohr, and two negroes, Cecil V.
Brown and Henry H. Spellinan, charged
with responsibility for the crime, went
to the courthouse today to listen to a
brief preliminary statement by the
prosecution. The complete opening
statements by both sides were reserved
until the return of the jury
from its inspection.
Killed While on Motor Trip.
Dr. Mohr was killed August 31 last
while motoring from Providence to
Newport with his secretary. Miss
Emily G. Burger, and the state alleges
that Mrs. Mohr hired three negroes to
commit the crime. One of the negroes,
George H. Heal is. has ?ince pleaded
guilty to manslaughter and is expected
to be a state witness.
The men who were indicted for murder
and Mrs. Mohr as an accessory before
the fact are being tried jointly.
Assistant Attorney General Abbott
Phillips in his brief outline of the
state's case declared that evidetue
would be presented to show that the j
physician's assassins lay in ambush and
when his automobile was stopped they 1
deliberately stepped up and shot Dr.
Mohr and Miss Burger without having
given them the least warning.
Jury to Make Inspection.
Mr. Phillips said the jury would be
taken also to Dr. Mohr's house and garage
in this city and to Mrs. Mohr's
home nearby.
William !H. Lewis of tlw? defense objected
to the plan of taking the jury to
Dr. Mohr's house, but was overruled by
the court.
Mrs. Mohr and the negro defendants
did not accompany the jury when it
left for the scene of tlu3 murder.
AEROPLANES OF ALLIES
DROP BOMBS ON SOFIA
.LONDON, January 11.?A dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph from Saloniki
says that a flotilla of French aeroplanes
has dropped bombs on Sofia, causing
considerable damage and an indescribable
panic among the inhabitants of
the Bulgarian capital.
RECALL OF U. S. CONSUL
HIGGINS MAY BE ASKED
BERLIN, January 11, via London.
12:55 p.m.?A "Wolff Bureau dispatch
from Stuttgart announces that an official
-investigation has been begun of
the case of Edward Higgins, American
consul at Stuttgart. Air. Higgins was
accused by the Staats Zeitung of New j
York of unneutral and anti-German
declarations. The Staats Zeitung's article
was reprinted last week by the
Cologne Gazette.
An English correspondent at Amster- :
dam reported Saturday that tiie Cologne I
Gazette and other German newspapers \
were demanding the immediate recall of j
Mr. Higgins on the ground that he had \
given expressions to anti-German s*n- j
timents.
Ambassador Gerard at Berlin has been
authorized by Secretary Lansing to investigate
unofficial charges against
Consul liiggins at Stuttgart, alleging
that he is pro-British and objectionable
to the German government. Should
the charges be proved, it was said, Mr.
Higgins will be informed that this government
will not permit unneutral activities
on his part. No official charge
or complaint has been made against
him.
BEQUEST COMPLIED WITH.
Col. Boosevelt's Name Left Off the
Michigan Primary Ballot.
LANSING. Mich.. January 11.?Seere- I
rarv of State Vaughn has announced
lie will notify former President Theolore
Roosevelt that the latter's name
* 111 not appear on either the national
Drogressive or republican presidential
primary ballots in Michigan at the
spring election. Tiie secretary's announcement
was made immediately aftir
he had received a letter from Col.
Ftoosevelt requesting him to withdraw
lis name from the national progressive
jallot.
Henry Ford, the peace*advocate, was
notified today a sufficient number of peitions
had been received to place his
lame on the republican presidential
primary ballot.
SHOE STYLES DISCUSSED.
New Methods of Manufacture Also
Considered at Convention.
NEW YORK. January 11.?Shoe styles
ind new methods of manufacture ,
idapted to the rapid expansion of the
shoe trade are the chief topics under j
liscussion in the convention of the
sational Shoe Retailers' Association in i
iession here. Manufacturers and deal- e
trs say that there was an increase of 1100,000.000
in the shoe business last 1
ear, and they predict that the increase
vi 11 be greater this year. This is at- c
ributed to the development of shoe r
ashions, as well as to the war. L!
A conference committee to which v
vas referred questions affecting styles c
nd materials for the coming year will c
eport today. High-top boots, with
oior schemes in white, pearl, ivory,
hampagne and bronze will be in style, ]
rwa6 said today. Pumps are again
oming in favor, and there will be
nany innovations in them. High heels 1
re favored, and even walking shoes <3
re to be of smarter laata lp Ian and t
rfcite combinations. ^ J
RELIEF IS ON WAY
FOR KUT-EL-AMARA
Gen. Aylmer's Army on the
Tigris Twenty Miles From
Beleagured City.
TURKS INSIST 10.000 MEN
FACE PERIL OF CAPTURE
t
British Blame Situation on Weather
Conditions and Transportation
of Wounded.
LONDON. January it. 4 p.in.?
The British force in Mesopotamia,
under Gen. Aylnier, proceeding up
the Tigris to the relief of knt-clAmara,
is still halted at Sheik
Saad. some twenty miles from
Ktit-el-Amara, according to the
latest advices received by ihe
government, but the halt is due
to w?ather conditions and the
necessity of removing the wounded
by river.
Cavalry Locates Turks.
This announcement was made in the
house of commons litis afternoon by .T.
Austen Chamberlain, secretary for
India.
British cavalry forces have located
the Turks six miles to the eastward .of
Kut-el-Amara. Mr. Chamberlain added.
This is the position from wh cli the
Turks were originally driven by (Jon.
Tov.nshend in the battle of Kut-elA
mara.
Hope to Capture 10.020.
A German official wireless dispatch
dated Constantinople, received here, repeats
the claim that Kut-El-Amara has
been surrounded by the Turks, and
adds:
' 1 ti ts |j J i nr i v/i i ? in riiun ti; 11 i
be taken or will fall for want of foodstuff*,
and that the British defenders,
who number more than 10,0u0, will be
captured.
"The British though* by leaxing
these forces in Kut-?!-Amara to guarantee
the defense of the town and also
to assure the orderly retreat of the remainder
of the army. This portion of
the army is at present a long way
southeast of Kut-Kl-Amara and cannot
go to the help of the fort, especially as
the morale of this force is shaken."
Claim Made by British.
In his statement to the house of commons,
Austen Chamberlain, secretary
for India, said:
"Gen. Aylmer left Miarn Alligarbi on
January fi with troops marching: to the
relief of Kut-el-Aniara. On the Saturday
Gen. Townshend at Kut reported
that the previous night the enemy had
opened a neavv ore on me norinwesi
front, and on the village opposite Kut.
but had made no attack. On the night
of January 7 Gen. Aylmer reported
heavy tiring on trie south bank of the
Tigris.
On the right hank. Gen. Campbell'*
column carried the enemy's position,
taking two guns. 700 prisoners,' and
then intrenched. Meanwhile the main
attack on the left bank was retarded
by an enemy outflanking movement,
and Gen. Alymer reported that he apparently
was opposed by three Turkish
divisions.
Reports Enemy's Retreat.
"On the evening of January S Le reported
that owing to fatigue the troops
had been unable to make any progress
that day. On the 9th he reported the
enemy in retreat, and that he was pursuing,
but that heavy rains hindered
the pursuit.
"From later telegrams it appears that
the enemy has reached KI ora."
m npnp nppMTiriM
II1IU1I IS 11VI Ul I UUIilVIl
TO ARMY SERVICE BILL
LONDON, January u, 4:40
p.m.?John E. Redmond, parliamentary
leader of the Irish party,
announced in the house of commons
this afternoon that the nationalists
would *not further oppose
the military service bill.
The debate on the second reading began
in the house this afternoon. The opinion
was generally expressed in the lobbythat
the vote in favor of the bill on
the second reading would prove to h? f
even greater than 011 the first reading,
and it was even stated by some that
the minority vote would dwindle down
to a negligible figure.
It is believed that a small number of
the radical party will follow the leadership
of Sir John Simon in resisting
the compulsion measure to the end.
Some of these members have already
Deen requesieu iu iceisu -.>
stituents. ,
ANOTHER BRITISH VESSEL
SUNK IN MEDITERRANEAN
LONDON", January 11. ^48
p.m.?The British steamer Clan
Macfarlane, of 4.8_?3 tons, lias
been sunk in the Mediterranean.
There are 110 details of the sinking.
The Clan Macfarlane was pout to the
bottom December 3d. Six officers and
lighteen Lascars have been landed at
dalta. Thirteen Lascars died in the life?oats.
The Clan Macfarlane left Liverpool I >elernber
16 for Bombay. The latest marii s
egisters contain no further records of
ler movements. She was 4 00 feet long.
i0 feet beam and L'7 feet in depth. She
ras built in Sunderland in 1898, and was
wned by Cayzer, Irvine & Co., Ltd., of
Ilasgow.
Franz Lehar Exempted From Duty.
VIENNA, January 10, via Berlin to
.?ondon, January 11, 2:57 a.m.?Freelom
from military service for the duraion
of the war has been grr&nted
rranu Lehar, the compoeer. l
.? I
