Subscribers of The Daily Gate
City are served the full Leased
Wife Service of the United
Press Associations. Pf
In addition to making speeches sup
porting the preparedness program, it
was learned today the president plans
to wield hla personal influence with
senators and Representatives. to coun
teract the' Influence of former Secre
tary Bryan.
—SalMie«rt»* sma»oct .l«y
leaden was an outstanding featuri
the situation today. £nth?
eide.' Kltchln, floor ltJbder, Is* not
alone antong democratic leaders in
opposition. Speaker Clark has only
gone as far as declaring for "reason
able" preparedness. Henry, of Texas,
another leader, is regarded luke-warm
if hot secretly hostile. Foster, of
Illinois, is for a compromise. Many
middle western democrats are appar
ently hostile.
On the senate side where Demo
cratic- Leader Kern is for prepared
ness generally, but says he has no:
made up his mind as to the best plan,
Chairmen Chamberlain and Tillman,
respectively of the military and mvval
committees are behind the afmlnistra-
-j A
Progressive Enthusiasts Want
Republicans to Name Him
e-.^».«s
Their Candidate.
r-
P.
The only bar to this program today
*as the fear of the more radical pro
gressives that standpatters will be In
absolute control of the G. O. P., con
tention. This element of the bull
moose party fears that Roosevelt's
boom will be squashed by the re
actionaries, before it has opportunity
to develop In tho convention Com
mitteemen today considered the ad
dress of Geo. W. Perkins at his din
ner last night as the keynote of the
Party's stand.
"We did not desire nor provoke the
conflict of 1912," Perkins declared. "It
was forced on us against our will.
Now we should place country above
Party."
Statements today by Col. Cecil Lyon,
of Texas, and Wllllsm H. Hotchkiss,
of New York, were considered as in
dicatory of sentiment among both
western and eastern progressives.
Colonel Lyon declared a combine of
*be republicans and progretsitet on
#•.
Many Democratic Congressmen are Only Luke-
warm Over the Plans of President
Vr^ Wilson.
rr
lit
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 11.—Rising
opposition to the administration pre
paredness plan was considered at to
day's cabinet meeting. The president
conferred on the same subject with
Chairman Hay of the hourfe military
committee. It was understood Hay
told the executive the continental
army plan apparently is doomed, but
that sentiment favors some increase
in the regular army and expansion of
the nations lguard as a reserve army.
STILL THINK ROOSEVELT
'i,'..IS
vam Im
.,
1
(United Press Leased Wire Service.]
CHICAGO, Jan. 11.—Three-fourths
of the progressive national committee
men here today to select a date for
the national convention, favor amalg
amation with the republican party if
it can be accomplished "with honor."
As the committee prepared to meet at
the Congress hotel at 11 a. m. today,
sentiment of both eastern and western
committeemen .indicated a return to
the G. O.
fold Is more than possible.
It Is all up to the republicans.
Chances early today were consid
ered nine to one in favor of a pro
gressive national convention in Chi
cago June 7. simultaneous with the
republican convention. It can be stat
ed with positive assurance that if
Theo. Roosevelt pr some other pro
gressive renubllcan candidate Is nom
inated by the G. O. P.. the bull moose
'*111 become.a member. The dramatic
fco't of the Roosevelt clans from the
republican convention here four years
»?o will hare an equally dramatic
contrast in the return to the fold.
«i*7'
mm
it J*
NFLUENGE IS FEARED
Woman's Peace Party Files a Protest Against
Great Increase of the Army and
"j
f"
Women Protest.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 11.—Vigorous
protest against the aamlnlstration's
preparedness program was formally
presented to congress today by the
Woman's Peace party, holding its sec
ond convention here. Miss Jane Ad
dams, chairman, 'and a delegation of
the party, appeared before the house
and senate foreign affairs committee.
Their peace and anti-preparedness
plan urged:
A congressional Joint committee
ffiSSgVSS&i
ability
or hostile action
eign
power
by any for­
and
plans
to reduce in­
ternational friction by legislation and
diplomacy.
A peace conference of neutral na
tions to be called at once.
Government ownership of muni
tions plants.
A joint commission of Americans.
Japanese and Chinese to study orien
tal questions.
Practically all convention dele
gates attended the committee hear
ing. Other speakers besides Miss
Jane Addams were Mrs. Crystal EJast
man Benedict, Mrs. Lucia Ames Mead
of Boston and Miss S. P. Breckinridge.
dean of the Woman's college of Chi-
ONLY MAN ON EARTH
echoed the sentiment.
Every mention of Roosevelt's name
in the committee meeting today was
expected to provoke cheers. The
Perkins dinner last night left no
doubt where the moose stand with
their leader. Scores of the committee
men think It Is more than possible
tne same way about the colonel.
the same way about the colonel.
A somewhat difficult task lay ahead
of the committee, in its early session
today. It must arrange representation
in the convention, based on Roosevelt's
vote in the states in 1912. This mat
ter, though merely perfunctory, if
there is possibility of a combine with
the republicans, was to occupy several
hours time today.
Perkins was not so absolutely cer
tain as many other bull moose leaders
that the June 7 date for the convention
would be selected. He admitted that
a rather Influential minority favored
waiting until after both older parties
had held their convention. Colonel
Lyon and other western committee
men, however, had their oratorical
guns primed for a few hot speeches on
this plan which they thought would
bring this minority to time.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
BERLIN, (via wireless to SayvJIle,
L. I.) Jan. 11.—Determined attempts
by the French to recapture positions
conquered by the Germans northwest
of Massiges in the Sunday offensive,
have been repulsed, the war office
announced this afternoon. The Ger-
mane
took 380 prisoners.
"A French battle aircraft, armed
with 3.8 centimetre gun, was forced
by German fire to land near Jumen,
south of Dixmudo," said the official
statement. "The air craft and pilots
were unhurt and are in German
tf hands. A British biplane waa ahot
''•'V a nPn
AJa.Vy« tern of distribution of food supplies
down in an air fight near Tournai."
THE FOOD SUPPLY.
••••J I ber 16 showed there were sufficient
tion measures but Senators Gore and.bread
Vardaman are openly opposed. said the official statement "but since
A compromise of both the army and I
navy Programs between congress an*
the white house today appeared the'
probable upshot, after more discus
sion.
BERLIN, (via wireless to Sayvllle,
*?.*-• ... L. I.) Jan. 11.—Careful use of bread
and corn stocks is necessary, the
government announced in an official
proclamation Issued today, warning
the people against food extrava
gances.
Emphasizing this necessity,' the
government haa ordered that the sys-
in operation before last summer be
re-established.
"Statistics made public on Novem-
aatjJ
and corn 8tock, |n Germany»
the fl0VCPnment
SUa
feating Woodrow WHson. Hotchkiss and the subsequent counter atUcks
nrted
increased the rate of
d, tr|b t| th beg,nn,ng of
ACCUSE AMERICAN.
BERLIN, (via wireless to Sayville,
L. I.) Jan. 11.—The German govern
ment i«.. I nyftsligati ng the. cswe of.
United States Concur Hig'gJna at Stutt
gart, alleged to have made State
ments hostile to Germany, the Ber
lin papers declared today.
The Cologne uazette /recently
quoted the New York 8taats Zeitung
as stating that Higgins' remarks had
violated the neutrality of the United
8tates.
Roosevelt I* the only possibility of de-, the brilliant defense of our soldiers
offlcia] word had been recelved
A Message from Roosevelt.
CHICAGO, Jan. 11.—Calling on the
progressive national committee to
cast aside all purely partisan con
sideratlons, Theodore Roosevelt today rough draft, for the president,
wired a plea for preparedness to the
committee as, it met in conferences
prior to selecting a date for tho
party's national convention.
ftoosevelt'B message declared tho
country is facing a great crisis and
the nation has fallen far sh,ort of
its duties for the past
months. The message makes no men
tion of Roosevelt as a candidate,
ht
(Oca tinned on page 6J
The telegram, which Wc^bory ons
affirmed opinion on rehearing:
progressive leaders at a conference
preliminary to the executive meeting
of the committee, was as follows:
"I send you my hearty greetings.
We,
as a country, are facing a great
world crisis, in which, for the last
eighteen months, this nation has fal
len far short of its duty, both to its
own people and to the law-abiding
iW:
state department regarding receipt by |,racks
reached yesterday by Secretary Lan-
sing and Ambassador Bernstorff, ofll- Pltal
cials believed the paper would be Posec
handed to Foreign Minister
the way, Secretary Lansing today
was expected to devote much of his
time to completion of the lengthy con
traband note which Is in course of
preparation. There has been no offi
cial statement that this note would
be directed against Great Britain, but
in view of the British commnnd of!
the seas, it is certain Great Britain's
published lists of what she considers
contraband wljl be the first subject
of protest.
Officials today refused even to ap
proximate the time that will elapse
before this note is ready, even in
lows Supreme Court Decisions.
[Special to The Gate City.]
DES MOINES. Jan. 11.—State vs.
Sayles, Pottawattamie county, affirm
ed Ladd, justice.
Hatz et al. vs. board of supervisors
of Plymouth county, iowa, Plymouth,
I dismissed per curiam.
In the matter of the estate of John
Weaver, Justice,
In re estate of Bennison vs. Bennl
son, Black Hawk cftunty. affirmed
Weaver, Justice.
Dobbertein VS. Emmet county et al,
Emmet county, reversed and remand
ed Weaver.,
—Read The D&tly Gate City, 10c a
week by carrier.
&
vY
?M'- SZ'y
i*' mz
VOL. 122. NO. 9. t* $ KEOKUK, IOWA TUESDAY, JAN. 11, 1916
[United
1is
the
second year of the war, the impres
sion arose that stocks were super
abundant.
"Many are now only provided with
sufficient stocks and therefore careful
use of stocks is necessary. The gov
ernment therefore abolishes the dis
tribution order of last August and
re-established the original plan of dis
tribution, while maintaining, however,
sufficient bread ration's for hard work
ing people."
•••kn&ni i*nt ^Alintsr attacks ... I
„r*h. rTr m«„»''thJ^war offic-iConstantlne may not be embarrassed
'Eft fJ now established that the at- [diplomat, here. tlnue for two9days,
tack was made by three German divi
sions." Run Over by Train.
CEDAR RAPIDS. Iowa, Jan. 11.—
S« a"m."ortt "o'r7b= „™McJS"JSS tVlS/Oif lSSXwG! Scrv'ice.] ZKK Cl.n M.F.rt... h„. b.n
the sam* way about th£Colonel WASHINGTON. Jan. ll.-While no
von
kk
r-?
ailn'wftte
Leased Wire Service.]
BERL/ (via wireless to Sayville,
L. I.) JP 11.—The Italian steamer
Porto S sunk by an Austrian sub
marine
0
-st attempted to escape and
then 1 *vj to ram and sink the sub
mersi Vienna dispatches reported
toda
D/' *te this fact, Vienna asserted
the^-^/imander of the submarine took
unu»»ai precautions to safeguard the
lives of persons aboard the steamer,
though in so doing he imperiled the
safety of his own men.
"The submarine first ordered the
steamer to stop, but she attempted to
escape," said Vienna dispatches.
"Then she ran up the white flag and
stopped.
"When the submarine approached
tho steamer suddenly steered against'
the submarine in order to ram her.
The submarine then opened fire and
hit the steamer which again stopped
and began lowering her boats.
"The submarine stopped firing and
upon approaching, found boats were
pulling away, paying no heed to per
sons swimming in the vyater, but
heading for the coast. The subma
rine commander .therefore halted a
boat containing the Porto Said's cap
tain and threatened to shoot him if
he did not put about and save these
persons.
"Returning to the, steamer, the
crew of the submarine found aboard
he/ two persons, one of whom was
wounded. They were taken aboard
the submarine and after the wounds
had been bandaged, were transferred
to the captain's boat.
"Not until this was done, was the
steamer torpedoed. Meanwhile the
submarine while still engaged in a.d-
ing persons from tne Porto Said was
shelled by the enemy's torpedo boats I
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
ATHENS, Jan. 11.—Anglo-French
Soldiers were stationed outside a Bul-j
garlan church at Salonika yesterday
and arrested several Bulgarians they
suspected of espionage, according to
Jadvlqes received here today. The In-
8itting
a86UPancea
from the Venlzeloists
th wi|| the|r utterances
debate that Klng The conscr
W. S. Linsley, 60, night watchman
ru"
?verhbL ZJ™
at the v^lking homeon the Northwes ern ,^
la
n)Sht
Berlin of the Lusitania agreement e,f ,T:fleet of steamers owned by the Clan
1 He
iing
Jagow by Ambassador Gerard before I aether and one sister.
tonight. These officials were confl-1
dent complete acceptance of its terms
would be forthcoming.
With the Lusitania matter out of tAUSlrl* t" I
snow slide near here today, making
eight such deaths In Colorado within
the last week. Frank Battochl,
caught at the edge of the slide, dug
himself out and struggled to Opbir
where he gave the alarm.
NOTICE
The subscription price of
The Daily Gate City by
mail has been $3.00 in the
towns and $2.50 on rural
routes. These two differ
ent rates have caused so
much confusion and dis
satisfaction that after
February 1, 1916, there
will be but one price for
the daily by mail and that
$3.00 per year.
The subscription price of
the daily in Keokuk re
mains the same—10 cents
per week.
'ikv
l0r a
~iin his dealings with either group of'understanding that debate would con-!
iaierdSfSandLitkeis sup-!!1"6
$•%?wj
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan. 11.—British forces
marching to the relief of Kut-EI
Amara, are within seventeen miles of
the beleaguered garrison, according
to best information available here to
day.
They must fight their way eastward
through a Turkish army believed to
outnumber them two to one. No news
of the fate of the Kut-EI-Amara gar
rison has reached London since the
arrival of official dispatches covering
Saturday night's fighting and It Is be
lieved possible the decisive battle al
ready has been fought.
Not since the Boers surrounded a
British force at Ladysmlth, has a Brit
ish army faced similar peril. For that
reason, news of the progress of the
relief expedition is being awaited with
the greatest anxiety, if not alarm.
The latest dispatches Indicated that
the relief forces under General Ayl
mer and General Campbell were at
grips with the Turks in the bend of
the Tigris east of Kut-EI-Amara.
Weather conditions, It was stated,
were Impeding the British advance.
Though
detaiiB are
way
almost com­
pletely lacking, it Is believed here
that the Turk6 encircled the British
right at Kut-EI-Amara, throwing a
strong force between the garrison and
the river Tigris. Constantinople re
ported such an enveloping movement
in progress a week ago. If this Is'
true, the relief expedition must fight
its
eastward through this force
to save the garrison from capture.
India office officials today viewed
the situation hopefully. Kut-EI-Amara
undoubtedly is provisioned sufficiently
wlth8ta^d a r,ong 8ieger they
pa Uign a0ai„8t
and a yacht. who intended that Kut-EI-Amara's for.
I tifications should check the British
advance into Mesopotamia. ThevBrit
ish improved these works when they
said,,
hay( been u8ed ag a ba#e for the
Bagdad.
rh
town itself is well fortlled. De-!
feneM wepc fir8t buUt by the Turk8
took the town. It is believed they
[United Press Leased Wire Service.] shipment of supplies to Greece within tion fight in the cabinet, was to answer 'to take such steps, followed investiga- once.
PARIS, Jan. 11.—At least 60,000 the limits prescribed by a commission ,the criticism of labor advocates. He tion by himself and tho mayor, of the I "The fire," said Pinney. "started in
Germans participated in the Sunday
offensive movement against thement convene on January 24, son, labor's representative in the cab- blaze intherearof the Ottumwa Buggy of the old coaling station which is
French lines in the Champagne re- fien newly elected deputies will take (net, who wais expected to explain why |'o., and the G. B. Baker Piano estab-1beinp U3ed by the submarine. There
gion, it was established todsy. ^thelr seats. The government Is seek- he and other labor members of parlia- lish'ments. Lftt.e estimates of damagojwere vessels alongside the dock whick
"Our artillery Are, together wltn ,)ng
ment
in jsory measure necessary.
,pt,on measure came up
second fading today with the!
tlnue for two the vote being tak-
en either tomorrow night or Thursday. I
THIRTEEN
a
lUH*vBprejir1Levi3
HAVRE, Jan. li. soutn or ^r0'-
today: "Artillery
around Ypres."
Hill Steel companies failed to
planned
wase increase.
—Read The Daily Gate City, 10c
week by carrier.
N. Friedman's department store.
James Swirles' dry goods store.
Stevens Shoe company.
Wallace Printing company.
A. H. Nelson's Ladies' Wear store.
The Swearingen store.
Woolworth'a 6 and 10 cents store.
W. W. Bruckman Tailoring Uo.
Work of Fire Bugs.
OTTUMWA, Iowa, Jan. 11.—-Dur-
inK
days. the vote being t.M 1 Ui £, IIAS 1
DROWNED.
11.—The British'
LONDON, Jan.
submarine, it was announced this
aftern0on
and boh leg. fhe Clan McFarlane was one of the
of
cJj.
survived by his iat
her
Death In Snow Slide. ethers have been rescued.
TELLURIDE. Colo., Jan. 11.—Four
t^'S'finvVeet'
tons, was 400 feet long and fifty feet
beam. She was built In 1898.
the progress of the big Main
are impregnable to assault by the street conflagration early tills ndorn
Hfjhtiartillery the Turks.have drawn started in three other.was threatened until aid was Bent by
awvft the river-Worn"Bagdad *by Are bugs,
I the police declare. The police state)
called the city council together and a
thorough investigation has been or
dered.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.] :0ne of which caused more than $500,- 'early today. Only the favorable direc
LONDON, Jan. 11.—The govern- 000 damage, were of incendiary orig- tlon of the wind made it possible to
oratorical batteries jn, gained 'impetus this afternoon check the blaze.
this after.
jcident is expected to cause fresh pro
tests from the Greek government.
The newspaper Hestla, friendly torment's heaviest
the allies, declared today that Greek ^were to open in commons
johiP8 detained at Malta and other: noon in defense of the conscription Hloan and Mayor Carter will call upon today he did not believe the fire was
iports of the allies have been released.1 bill. istate Fire Marshal Ole Roe to como^of incendiary origin. An investigation
The entente powers, It was stated, I First Minister of Munitions Lloyd- ihere and conduct an investigation, Is beinc made, however, he said, and
jhave guaranteed not to hinder the Georpe, virtual leader of the conscrip- Sloan's 'announcement of his intention a report will be sent to Washington at
when
at Paris. The Greek parlla-' was to be followed by Arthur Hender- costly Main street holocaust and theia coalins pocket on the SOO foot pier
"S^uth o7VFrol Pope Benedict has been
from tho
iiiiiui
lotatement from the Belgian war office v/as an imperative preliminary to
duels occurred 'peace proposals, it Is understsood In
ratican circles, i.e is said to have
made this fact known both to Germany
I strike Failed to Materialize. and the allies.
ftUnited Press Leased Wire Service.] At the recent papal consistory,
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio. Jan. IT.— Cardinal Hartmann of Cologne. Is re
iPlans to extend the strike of common ,ported to have submitted to his ho!i
laborers to the Carnegie and Brier ness the terms upon
mater-
to help fellow workmen at tlie lv consented to a visit to Rome "7
'Younsstown Sheet and Tube company the Belgian prelates. ...
and tho Republic Iron and Steel com- Several members of the Belgian re-. Was Tired of Life.
]TOnv to obtain an increase In pay to lief committee from London are al-1
THE WSATHER
Big Blaze at Ottumwa This Morning Wiped
Out Eight Business Concerns on
Main Street.
FIRE BUGS BUSy DURING THE NIGHT
Several Other Fires Were Started by Incen
diaries While the Firemen-Were Busy
in Business District.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
OTTUMWA, Iowa, Jan. 11.—Fire
this morning destroyed half a city
block in the heart of the retail dis
trict on Main street, causing a $750,
000 loss. Among the establishments
burned are:
'buildings on the south side of Main discovered and were not damaged."
TIT AC
Delegates to Talk the Matter
Over and Negotiate for
Ending of War.
IstM^^i^was6 torpedo^f^Twenty^four Henry Wood. United Press Staff The Scandinavians believe plans of
Correspondent.] the Ford leaders should assume a
"PT AM
WITH BELGIUM AS LEVER
v*
Snow. Continued cold. Local
temp-—7 p. m. 25 7 a. m. 20.
BY TVRKS
HALF MB II ASHES
III HEM HE IHE ffl
V,1+.?
EIGHT PAGES 5 1
street between Court and Market
were burned, indicated the loss will at
tain closely to $750,000, against which
there is about $200,000 Insurance.
In volume of damage, that to the N.
Friedman drygoods stock ranks high
est. The enormous building, its floor
space greater than any other structure
in the city, was well stocked. Fried
man stated that ehe loss would reach
$200,000 with insurance of $110,000.
Hotel Destroyed.
SAUL/T STE. MARXE, Mich., Jan.
11.—Guests In the new International
Hotel at the Ontario Soo were forced
to face a sixty mile gale and blinding
blizzard in their night clothes early
today when Are destroyed the hotel.
The entire business district of the city
t0e
-Michigan Soo, Algonquin, Mich.,
an(j
that the Friedman store was fired in I i\he hotel was considered the finest
am an a a as of or on to an as a
gteelton, Ont., Are departments.
$260,000.
Will Investigate. j$25,000 fire of unknown origin threat
OTTUMWA, Iowa. Jan. 11.—Belier ened to deBtroy the coaling station of
that Ottumwa's three fires last night, 'the United States submarine base here
It was learned that Fire Chief Lieutenant Commander Pinney said
believe adoption of the compul- wrought when almost half of the|moved away as soon as the fire was
yhe Ford Peace Party.
,, _i [By Charle3 P. Stewart, United Press
staff correspondent.]
THE HA/GUE. Jan. 11.—Several
Scandinavian delegates attached to
the Ford peace party are threatening
to secede today, because they do not
approve the manner In which the ex
pedition is conducted.
I ROME. .Tan. 11.—Pope Benedict |more definite form, since the neutral
hopes to take his first practical step peace conference Is about to begin its
toward peace this week. sessions. They are disgruntled, too.
Cardinal Mcrcier. with Monsignor because the American "steerlDg"' com
Heylen, bishop of Namur. Is expected mtttee Is in absolute control,
to arrive here from Belgium today or. The first public meeting in Hollan.1
tomorrow. They will bo received in was held last night in the auditorium
audience by his holiness and are ex- of the Zoological garden and the
'pected to tell him upon what terms speakers received liberal applause,
the people of Belgium will agree to an several American delegates who in
early peace. plsted on smoking were expelled by
convinced
25 cents an hour. Failure of the walk- ready In Rome. Tt is understood that CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa. Jan. 11.—
.out was taken to indicate there will their views will be solicited also by
be no sympathetic strike In Mahoning the Vatican. Having learned Bel-:
Vallev and that the men are satisfied gium's terms, the pope plans to sub- i,ouso today by cutting his throat.
with th, recent grant of a ten per cent mit them to
^rmany
consistory.
the Dutch guards.
besirfninsr of the war thnt the Student members or the expedition,
which Germany
will consent to evacuate Belgian
received their weekly pay, and was glans themselves and Germany readi-1
by Germany numbering about fifty, sailed for New
any York today aboard the Noerdam.
tc^' Th
lalize today. The scheduled walkout rltory. The pontiffs next step was to jefpndants are also chaie^.
was to occur at noon after the men arrange to learn the views of the
Bo--
Menace Publishers on Trial.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
JOPLIN. Mo.. Jan. 11.—Four pub
lishers of the anti-Catholic paper, the
Menace, went to trial in the federal
court today charged with mailing ob
scene matter. They are:
Wilbur Phelps, Bruce M. Phelps.
eodore Walker. Marvin Brown,
being parties to the distribu-
(jon of a
scene
[TTnite(1
Iaaac
these negotiations to begin the series, passers-by who took him to St. Luke's
of compromises he suggested neces-1 hospital, where his injuries wer«
arv for peace in his elocution to the: dressed. He may recover. He left a
•J
a j.
1
containing alleged ob-
matter.
x?ress Leased Wire Service.]
Gorton. 55, attempted suicide in
an alley in
the rear of Crene opera
.^hopjng through wUh__a mzor_ was^discoyered^by
__i, A a 41«A/1 A# 11
statement that he was tired of life.
'0
at
Fire at Coaling Station.
NEJW LONDON, Conn., Jan. 11—a
