ifll
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 5.
22.60.
Arizona Sunday, Mon
day, fair, temperature
unchanged.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 194.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, JANUARY 11, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
CM til I r
OT URGES
WOMAN ON TRIAL.
in
inn
SERVICE
PROVIDENCE, Jauary 10.
The jury was completed for the
trial of Mrs. Elizabeth Mohr and
the two negroes charged with
the murder of the woman's hus
band, ('. Franklin Mohr, a prom
inent physician of Providence,
and Newport. , Efforts to have
Mrs. Mohr, who is charged with
being an accessory before the
fact, tried separately failed. Dur
ing a long examination of the
veniremen the woman sat mo
tionless. Tomorrow they will
view the scene of the shooting.
SAN DIEGO EXPOSITION TO RUN THROUGH ANOTHER YEAR
IS IT WORTH A
SCREAMER HEAD?
AMSTERDAM, January 10.
According to the Frankfurter
Zeilun considerable damage was
done to the Krupp Works at Es
sen, by fire Saturday. The fine
broke out in a shed used for
models,- and spread to the ad
joining building containing the
wheel work shops. Both build
ings were completely destroyed.
Compulsory Service for All
Men Between Eighteen and
. Twenty-one Years of Age
Advised Chief of Staff.
DECLARES COUNTRY
NEEDS TWO MILLION
Suggest Term of Enlistment i
Should Consist or a oix
Months Period and Con
tens U. S. Needs Reserves.
UTOIBILE
DAY HONORS
GRISTS
WASHINGTON, Jan. 10. Universal
military service In some form in the
United States and possibly the require-!
nipnt that all men between eighteen
and twenty-one be given at least six
months training as a substitute for the
volunteer system, was discussed be
fore the House military committee by
Major General Scott, Chief of Stan or
the arf-ny.
Scott told the committee the United
States would need an army of nearly
two million in the event of war. It de
veloped during the bearing that there
were were four million men fn the
country between eighteen and twenty- j
one, that seven hundred thousand j
more reached eighteen annually. With
a short military requirement Scott
thought the Administration's continen
tal army plan offered the most worka-
l-!e solution of rational military prob-i
lems. If the plan failed there was no
cos pe fro"n con'P'i'sory service.
With military service Imposed on
Ren between eighteen end twenty-one
s a patriotic duty with nominal pay
he thought it would cost the nation no
more for an adeouate force than to
maintain the present establishment.
Scott's statement that the country
would need an army of nearly two
million in the event of war was ques
tioned by Representative Anthony,
who asked if it would not be a physi
cal impossibility fo rany power to land
a half million men in the United States
in x period short of sixty days.
Citing a table, prepared by the War
College division of the General Staff,
under date of August, 1914, Scott said!
Austria had the ships and men to send
a force of 72,000 in the first expedition,
. 108.000 in the second, within sixty days
France, he added, could send 160,000
In the first expedition and Germany
387,000.
Friday will be "Automobile
Day in El Paso in Honor
of Southern Arizona Motor
cade to the Texas City.
BAD WEATHER
FRIGHTENING NO ONE
Visitors will be Met at Deriv
ing, New Mexico, by Rep
resentatives of Pass City
Given Key to Mteropolis.
EL PASO, Jan. 10. Friday will
be Southern Arizona Automobile
Day here. The Arizona auto ex
cursion will be met at Doming by
C. H. Lester, father of the Border
land Route, R. H. Rirvehart, of
the E Paso Auto Club, and H. B.
Stevens. At the Texas-New Mexl-.
co line a delegation of El Paso
motorists will welcome the Ari
zonans into the state and at the
city limits Mayor Tom Lea and
President R. B. Orndorff of the
Chamber of Commerce, will pre
sent Joseph Gray the golden key
to the city. A parade will then
foljow and headquarters wMI be
established at the Chamber of
Commerce.. Free garage tickets
will be furnished to all autoists
from the sister state and a ban
quet will be given in their honor
at the Paso del Norte Hotel Fri
day night after a ride over the
city and to Juarez where thsy will
be entertained by General Cavera.
An auto cabaret wip be given
during the banquet.
I , . .; , A i i:
r' ff.Jih ta&M?4 U I
'rWhfM, lifeSC LLtU
H' Mr Mmm$ mm
ill if Mi; .-i-aviri mw&4i
'inrnnananiHii
nrnriHnRn hn
J b U WJltlllW I III!
I SACRIFICES
I GREATEST
ic! OFWAR
III
Hungarian Newspapers Con'
tend that Losses on Both
Sides in Fighting Around
Czernowitz Largest Known.
! CALM FOLLOWS EF-
I FORTS OF RUSSIANS
Bookkeeper for Hearst Ranch
After Being Held Prisoner'
on Vula Urders' is Keported
Slain Near the Property.
Austrians Active in Montene
gro. Teutonic Consular Rep
resentatives at Saloniki Not
Released by Allies is Latest
LONDON ( Jan. 10. While the Rus
sian front is calm, there ha4 been,
severe fightin in other war theatres.
MEXICO CITY AS GOV- ; The Austrians. despite the wa'st deep
ERNMENT SEAT DISTANT i8UOW- dvn'd 'hpi- positions at sev-
j eral important points on he Mor.ts-
AJ. iv L 17LM ! nel?r'n fronts, proving theutoelves
nuvite inuicaic uwi tuic, equal to the Montenegrins
Have ; tain fighting. The
it
President Davidson of the Panama-California exposition: Home Kcjnomy and Foreign and Domextic Arts build
inRS (top); California state uu'lding (left); fro.n a loggia overlookir.g E! i .da.
So successful was the Panama-Califor-.ia exnosillon at Sn Diego last year that it hK.s been (ietorir.iiu.l' '
the management to run it through another .-:.;r, c -vs-.! th-; iafa Dec uglier !1, !j;r.. The l-esbcf the .-inUi:a
at. the Panama-Pacific xpo3U:o.i at .Si.n :'..:vvls.-n . .' ?ni;r n.vt..i tj S.;n !i'jpo, where they wiii icni.iin un.i!
the exposition there enas. , '
SUBMARINES THWARTED
ATHENS. Jan. 10. How eight Ger
man submarines th'at set out. to attck
the British fleet In the latter part of
November were either destroyed or
captured is described In a story told
by Lord Kitchener on his recent visit
here. No public account of the affair
was ever given. According to Kitchen
eu when the maneuvers of the Great
Fleet held in North Scotland, eight
Cfrman submarines of the nevest and
'strorgest tVP went out vilr the pur
jiiv c of ' I ;be fleet tiiid : !
havoc.
One came to grief in the North Sea
ne and others approached the fleet,
but they encountered another net and
were unable to get around. Two were
lost there. Finally the remainder de
cided fo ret'irn to Helii:olaad, but were
unstle to find their way out as the
gate and net had been closed Two-
more were lost but the remaining
three were finally forced to the sur
face and surrendered.v
PROGRESSIVES RETURN.
CHICAGO, January 10. It is com
mon gossip among national commit
teemen of the Progressive party who
will meet tomorrow that the national
convention will be on June 7, the same
day as the Republican convention.
The committeemen held a banquet
tonight, but none would make any
statement for publication concerning
the convention.
FLEW AMERICAN FLAG
BOSTON. Jan. 10. The British
stea-rer City of Lincoln passed
through the Mediterranean flying the
American flag as a protection against
submarines, members of the crew said
whon the steamer arrived with valua
ble cargo from Oriental ports. Ac
cording to the crew the ship's name
also was changed to read "lincoln."
The officers refused to comment.
Despite a theatening and overcast1
sky, there were added . yesterday to
the list of prospective El Paso excur
sionists four more car owners. These
four were Joe Walker, J. L. Brooks,
B. L. Smith, of Buxton & Smith, and
Martwell Nowell of Warren Ranch.
It was not a day that was conductive
to enthusiasm but no abatment of in
terest was discovered.
Yesterday was devoted by the Com
mercial Club secretary -to ascertain
ing definitely those who might be ex
pected to certainly start on the 1
Paso trip Thursday morning if the
weather permitted. .At the end of the
day-he had a list of 18 who bad said
they could be depended upon and
be had also arranged for the accomo
dation of a few of the business men,
not car owners, who arc prepared to
help represent Bisbee and the War
ren District. Another list of those
who expect to make the trip but have
not declared themselves to be cer
tainties numbered 15. Most of these
will not be able to determine definite
ly that they can go until today or to
morrow, and some not until the last
moment. , But the "line up" was con
sidered highly satisfactory.
Advices from Oscar Goll in Douglas
were received late In the afternoon.
He then had seven car owners listed
and again expressed confidence that
Douglas would send at least ten cars.
No further advices were received
from Tucson or Tombstone.
To make final arrangements for the
trip and to settle several details a
meeting of the excursionists is to be
held at the office of the Commercial
Club Wednesday evening at 7:30.
Among the matters to be determined
will be the hour for leaving Deming
Friday so that El Paso may be noti
fied. After that meeting, also, the
personel of the party can be sent to
El Paso and the reservation of ac
comodations made at Deming. Such
meeting should furnish the last of the
required information. At that time,
too, penants will be supplied for de
corating the cars.
fnles there shall be a severe
(Continued on Page C)
FIHAL DETAILS
ONLY TO BE
SETTLED
Lusitania Controversy in All
Liklihocdf will be Settled
Within a Week. Optimism
in Official Quarters.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 10. The dif
ficulty of agreeing upon details is
delaying the fi.ial Lusitania settle
ment The. The German ambassador
and Secretary Lansing conferred to
day. The latter said no final agree
ment was reached, although the out
look was encouraging. While the
principles involved were virtually
agreed upon it was learned that until
a method of expressing these princi
ples satisfactory to both sides is
found, the announcement of settle
ment will be withheld. The wording
of the tentative proposal, submitted
by Germany, is inadequate in certain
respects.
A feeling of optimism regarding the
ultimate outcome of the negotiations J
apparently prevail in official and Teu
tonic diplomatic circles. It is freely
predicted that a settlement, accept
able to both governments, 'will be
reached in a week, unless unmrseen
events intervene.
By Monday the German ambassador ;
should receive a reply to a dispatch
prepared tonight for the Berlin For-1
elgn Office. This is believed to con
tain the results of his latest effort v
and suggestions, regarding certain d-
sires of the United States to be em-,
bodied in the final settlement. It is;
authoritatively stated these sugges
tions are related to questions in
volved in the subject of reprisal, and
the British lockade which the United (
States and Germany both declare
illegal. i
In consideration of public opinion
in the United States, Germany is un
derstood to be playing an important
part in hastening a settlement. It is
said no definite agreement, relative to
indemnity, was reached.
in mcun-
Swing Yet the Revolution four Gern,an "" Champagne.
foothold in two places in the French
advance trenches. The British .en
route to relieve Kut-et-Amara. met
Turkish forces which were compelled
to retire after heavy fightiiig.
Petrograd says the Cernowiti calm
is due to huge osses. resultant from
the demoralizatioa of the Austrian
army. This is evident from the es-
De Facto Leaders
Swing Yet the R
is Not Put Down.
EL PASO, Jan. 10. P. Keane, a
bookkeeper, employed at the Hearst
T;.-.:ib at Dabrora. who wa. held pri
soner for several weeks by order M
ilia, has been killed y Mexicaa
I troops, according to advices from Ma
dera. The killing of Keane. who mas
:'''---''':SPEGISL;VEKIIiE!:!
APPEARS III
sixty, occurred at Rubio
ranch in Western Chihuatua, aecord-
ing to a brief telegram.
Keane was held prisoner by Gener-
near the j timate of Hungarian newspapers that
the losses to both sides in the Bes
sarabian battles exceed 175.0OO. Thi
is more thaa the total British losses
Medinaveitia under orders from Vil- in the Dardanelles campaign. Aero-
is said. Three other employes of: plane skirmish were the-cuitf eiens
LONDON, .January 10. The
Evening Standard commenting
editorially on the reported set
tlement of the submarine con
troversy between the United
States, says: "It is said Amer
ica and Germany are bosom
friends again, and that England
is to be bullied again for inter
fering with America's war
fits. If the British government
reflects the British people,
Washington will heiir some
stimulating, truths from this
side of the Atlantic."
jthe Hearst Ranch were released about: on- the Saloniki front,
a week ago and reacbed the border.) thus far have lost six
Hungarian
COURT
Attorney Cleary, Annie Olds'
Counsel, Files Objection to
Special Panel of Jurymen.
Court Over-rules Motion.
Th Germans
aeroplanes at
Medinavietia was recently reported in t Saloniki.
EI Paso, having quit the revolution. Another Hungarian newspaper
j General Rodriguez, operating with ; states the Czernowiu fighting has
Villa, is said to have" burned ail the. Been toe Ditlerest and oiouuiesi in m
bridges and a number of freight cars; history of the war. Both sides are
on the Mexican Northwestern Railway : sacrificing me j without parallel. Tb
between Rubio and Lajunta and was! rumor that the Teuton consuls, ar-
,inrin.r tno.H Madera rested at Saloniki. were released, ap-
YHGSH IS
Mil QUIET
COMMUNITY
Officials Believe that Strike
Crisis Has Been Passed.
Several Investigations of
Disorders in Progress.
TOMBSTONE, Jan. 10. (Special )
The attention of the superior court
was taken up this morning first in the
empaneling of the jurors that will
serve as trial jurors tor the present
lerm as returned by the sheriff. The
following answered to their names,
and qualified:
John C. Radovlch, Frank Bennett.
E. J. Furmall. Luther P. Easely. Wm.
Jones. Louis Roscoe, F. B. Steels.
V. R. Parker. W. M. Smith. J. N. Mc-
Kinney, E. K. Capeton, J. W
ton, Geo. A. Walker. C. A. Gaetjens,
J. R
Oscar Doyle,
fith. Henry Cawood, T. P. Cowan. H.
L. Cornaham, T. A. Lisendy, Frank
Meyer, Frank Homan, Earnest Ray,
K. H. Acord. W. E. Keen an. Wm.
Mliem, Joe T. Goodman, Arthur F.
Griessinger. C. F. Linck, C. L. Butler.
P. A. Golding. J. II. Hendrick. W. R.
w'th a small army.
I pears to nave been wttnout lounaa-
tion. It is now announced they bave
I been interned on a French auxiliary
I cruiser. Extensive Turkish reprisals
CHIEFTANS AT GUERETARO
U'leuiVRTDK fan 10 The res
toration of Mexico City as the seat of!r "ad-v -"uncJ by the Central
the Mexican government, apparently Powe ., . c, , .
, . j a . . . a , Lord Cecil. I ndr Secretary of
is indefinitely postponed. Advice to . . , . , .
I L . . .1. ' Foreign Affairs, referring to the' AI-
the S.ate Department iron, .the Mexi-,
can en bassy indicates that Carranza . friemlly o he Serbiant
will remain weeks and probably 'n who receivej ,aiuable assistance. Th
months at Queretaro. as the headquar-; Russianalic!lin offeDSive caused the
ters of the military and civilian chief-, Teutulis ,0 rusn PVery available Uni
ons of the de facto government who 8,on to 0aiu.tll Czeraowitx is atiU In
are gathered at Queretaro now for a . poss,ssion of tne Austrian. It is
genral conference. Obregon Is -;0ued witn wounded. The Russians,
mong the arrivals. It Is expected an : apparently. are directing their main
announcement of a new cabinet will attacjl agajnst Sodagora. north of th
Han,il. J follow the conference. t! Bukowina capital.
. While the military situation in it is persistently reported the oer
Bryly. W. H. Long, Paul Stevens, 'co was simpiinea oy me surrender m mans are conceal rating at nonasur.
Wui Smith Rn nplf. t tne principal ma iorces. u i mr preparatory to an auac ou niunu.
YOUNGSTOWN, Jan. 10. County
officials expressed the belief that the'.
strike crisis passed. Operations were
resumed by the Youngstown Sheet
and Tube company. The fourth regi
ment of the National Guard was
ordered home. General Organzer
Flynn, of the American Federation of
Labor, is charged with rioting last
week on a scheme to depress tne i ... 1mj rvrnnnnr to arrive from
W. Powell, E. P. Brewster. Victor
Johnson. J. P. McDonald, John Bravin,
S. G. Davis. H. H. Huffman. W. M.
Bostwick. A. J. Havin, Jack McLaugh
lin. O. J. Dodson.
After the panel had been accepted
court adjourned until 1:30 in order to
from cleared. The de facto gorern-jThe dtermined Austrian attack on
ment is only fairly started on the work, Mount Lovcen in Montenegro, is caus
of pacim-Mion. Little hope Is enter-i ing uneasiness among the Entente, es
Isined that Villa will leave the ooun-: pecially to Italy, who fears success
try. Some reports indicate the sue- would end her dream of dominating
cessful gathering of a number of lead-: the Albania Littoral or the Adriatic,
ers in independent bands and yet oper- ' Italian newspapers add the fear that
ating in Western Mexico. I Italy's Intervention in th Balkaa
The recent capture or Gomex Pala- campaign is too late.
chio by Benjamin Argumendo is not "
regarded br the United States as of FIERCE STRUGGLE CONTINUES,
rreat Importance, notwithstanding it, PETROGRAD, Jan. 10 -The strug-
is aiihurh of Torreon. Areumendo s " .
SUBMARINE BASE ON FIRE.
NEW LONDON. Conn., Jan. 10.
Fire of mysterious origin caused sev
eral thousand dollars damage to docks
coal pockets and storehouses at the
new United States submarine base on
the Thames river north o fhere late
tonight. Officers in charge of the
navy, yards are reticent concerning
details.
It was said by firemen that three
unloaded torpedoes were destroyed. A
number of loaded torpedoes were re
moved to a large shed after the nre
was discovered firemcu reported.
value of t lie stock of the Youngstown
Sheet and Tube company so a merger
of the independent steel interest
could be affected.
Quie prevailed In the vicinity of the
tube works. Employes reporting for
duty said they were not molested.
No pickets were in evidence. A fed
eral investigation is uuui-rvi ay. 'Intimated
The county grand jury examined
many witnesses in connection with ils
investigation. The prosecuting attor
ney said no report would be made
until late in the week. Six men were
arrested in connection with the inves
tigation of the robbing and burning of I
the postollice Friday night. It is al
leged stolen envelopes were found in
their possession.
It is reported the strikes in the
plants in Eat Youngstown, Struth
crs aiid Lansingvilie affecting 18,000
were settled. It is unconfirmed.
Nogales as he is to try the Old case.
Judge Lockwood being disqualified.
Mrs. Olds Is charged with the mur
der of her husband. William Olds, at
Pearce In April 1914. At the tima of
the homicide, she maintained that the
i shooting was accidental. What the
defense will be this time has not been
The prosecution will en
deavor to prove that the killing was
deliberate and will ask for Instruc
tions in the first degree.
Objects to Panel
As soon as court convened thi-
afternoon and Judge O'Connor took
the bench. Attorney William Cleary.
LONDON. Jan. 10 Herbert Samuel
pcMnnster general, has been appoint
ed Home Secretary, succeeding Sir
.John Simon, resigned.
for the defendant, filed a written ob
jection to the entire ' panel on the
grounds that It was not regular on the
following grounds: That it .was not
regularly and duly summoned accord
ing to law in that the court on Decem
ber 2 and 24 dismissed and discharg
ed all of the regular Jurors and spe
cial venires and adlourned court.
That on January 4 the court ordered
th sheriff to summon 50 jurors: that
(Continued on Tage Six.)
appearance in th enorth aroused inter
est because of his personality and rec
ord such that It is feared he may fill
the vacancy as a popular rebel leader
created by the collapse of Villa.
BIG PROPERTY DISPOSAL.
and Czernowitz continue with unabat-
' ed fury over the Russian Christmas
I holidays. The effort of the Germans
to outflank the Russians at Bayan on
' the frontier east of Czeraowitx and
' thus relieve the pressure on the lat
! ter place wss chackraated by th
i Russians, according to reports from
RIVERSIDE. Jan. 10. W. F. Holt ( the front Kterre fighting occurred in
of Redlands. who established all the , tne streets of Czartorysk on several
public utilities of the Imperial valley, .fusions when the town changed
has disposed of his electric power : nands. At present the Russians aa
plants and transmission lines, also I peaT , D jn possession,
the electric railway in Imperial and , .
Coachella valleys to the Southern
Sierra Power company of Riverside,
it is announced. The deal involved
a monetary consideration of approxi
mately a million and a hair. The gas j p0ssjbiy will be chosen to fill
plant at El Centro. Imperial and Braw-; post cf xustrii,n ambassador to
ley. with real estate valued at a nan rnUp(j StatPS.
million were retained by Holt.
I'-- : j PEACE MEETING FAILS.
HUERTA IS FAILING. j LONDON. January 10. A meeting
EL PASO. Jan. 10. General Huer-jat the Friends' Meeting Hous. head
ta'a physician stated his patient was ; quarters of Great Pr-.tsin, was called
gradually loslag strength. His illness' to discuss "problems of settlement t
has reached a critical stage with 'the war." It broke up afcer at haur
slight hope of recovery. Huerta was! of pandemonium with th U(M af
again tapped and two quarts of fluid , the national anthem aad thrafc chiers
removed front the intestinal tract. 1 for conscription.
APPONYI TO U. S.
BERLI... Jan. 10. Advices from
Vienna say that Count Apponyi. th
veteran Hungarian political leader.
th
th
