THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 234.
HAK11K, VERMONT. TUESDAY. JANUARY 11, 1010.
PIUCE, ONE CENT.
AUSTRIANSWIN
TWO POSITIONS
IN MONTENEGRO
AMEIRCAN CONSUL
AT STUTTGART
INVESTIGATED
Edward Higgins Said to Havs Uttered
Un-neutral and Anti-German Declara
tionsState Department Orders
an Investigation.
Washinsrton, D. C. Jan. 11. Ambas-
Have Captured Important ? Gerard at Berlin ha been author
1 1 ized by Secretary of State Lansing to
Points Near CattarO Cet- investigate unofficial charges against
A " . Consul Higgins at Stuttgart. No olUciul
tin l'e, According tO AdmiS- tharge or complaint lias been made
J ' against him.
SionS Made by Montene- Berlin, via London. Jan. 11,-A Wolff
, , bureau dispatch from Stuttgart an-
ffrin Authorities GlVen nounccs that an official investigation
6 haa heen hpmin of tho case of Edward
OUt in X ariS "'W?1"8. American consul at Muttgart.
Hijreins is accused by the New York
Staats-Zeitung of un-neutral anil anti
German declarations.
WARSHIPS ASSISTED
IN THEIR DEFEAT
TO WIPE OUT GERMAN TRADE.
Is Policy Presented by Englishman to
House of Commons.
London. Jan. 11. Walter Kunciman,
president of the board of trade, won
tremendous applause from the House
of Commons yesterday by a speech in
which he declared that the entente al
lies must take steps to see that Ger
many is unable to carry on a trade war
against them after peace is signed.
"There are signs, he said, "that at
last Germany is beginning to feel the
economic pressure of our blockade. Her
food supplies are becoming depleted,
while ours are increasing. Although our
exports have fallen and our imports
risen, there is no doubt that the eco-
The Austrians are succeeding in mak-lnomic strength of Great Britain is so
ing important inroads upon Montenegrin well founded that we can stand the
territory despite the desperate resistance j strain far tter than the central Pw
by the forces of King Nicholas, accora
ing to Montenegrin admissions given out
in Paris.
On the western frontier of Montenegro
Austrian forces are finally winning suc
cesses against the defenders of Mont
King Nicholas of Montene
gro Has Put Up Desper
ate Resistance, but His
Army Is Being Slowly
Forced Back by Teutonic
Invaders
THREATENED
LINER IN PORT
The French Vessel LaFay
ette Arrived at New
' York- To-day '
PASSENGERS HAD ,
They Reported That Neither
Submarine Nor Mine'
Was Sighted
$30,000 AT ONCE,
$250,000 LATER,
FOR NORWICH
University at Northfield Gets Splendid
Legacy from Gen. Grenville M.
Dodge, a Distinguished
Alumnus, Who Died
Recently.
Council Bluffs, Iowa, Jan. II Norwich
university in Northueld, Vt.,. where the
late On. Grenville M. DodiM received
s education 05 years ago, receives an
immediate bequest of $50,000 in the
L'cncral will, which was filed here vea-
RECEIVED WARNING terday.. Besides that institution is made
a residuary legates for at least a nuar
ter of a nullum after a trust fund for
the family is dissolved in future years.
1 lie income from the immediate be
quest is to be used for paying salaries
of professors of civil, military, electri
cal and mining engineering.
Uciierad Dodge was graduated from
Norwich, in engineering in the class of
iH.w, and alwavs took a great interest
in the school after he had achieved fame
in the Civil war and by building the
Union Pacific railroad, making many do-
His estate is val-
Ncw York, Jan. 11. The French liner
LaFayette, which was threatened with nRtioni to 8chfH)),
destruction in anonymous messages sent ued at over a million dollars, and the
to Henrv Clew, iunior. and others who hulk of it is left in trust for his wife
had hooked m...,. on her arrived her and t,,r daughters in New York and
, , ' , . ' ... . Council Bluffs. The trusteeship is to
lo-oay ana reported upt neitner a suur continue 21 years after the youngest
marine nor a mine was sighted during grandson dies. Then the trust fund
the voyage. (principal will be paid to the heirs and
While Mr. Clews, who was aceoro- ". Ii'iiuitnropies, orwicn getting
.1 1 ,1 . rr 1 . . . ii-i I. r, .1 4 tin jiIIia nn.. I
j'nuicu miq n nuu hue uuvi jwo-
sengers were not willing to discuss in
detail the warning messages, it was
learned that notes were sent to the pier
at Bordeaux and that the most of them,
it was said, read simply that there was
danger in sailing. '
MOHR JURY
VISITS SCENE
Taken to Place Where Dr. C.
Franklin Mohr Was
Fatally Shot
PRIOR TO STATEMENT
BY BOTH SIDES 1014
286 BIRTHS,
163 DEATHS,
76 MARRIAGES
Barn's Record for 1915 Was Not as
Good as in 1914 In Any Respect
There Was an Increase of 14
Deaths, Loss of 12 Births
and 32 Less Marriages.
Vital statistics for 1015, compiled by
the city clerk, were at hand to-day, the
salient features of which were figures
relative to births, marriages and deaths.
In the 12-month ending Dec. 31 there
were 2S births as against 2!)H births in
There were 108 deaths in 1015,
an increase of 14 over the preceding
year. Marriages were mo'e infrequent
in 1015 than in 1914. There were 76
HIGHER RATES
UNJUSTIFIED
Were Proposed by Rail and
Lake Routes from New
England West
Jury for Trial of Sensational fn9 & 'ZlttZT''
July wi niont prolific in point of
mnrrlfl tram. 11 L-nrW a Vinintr find 1 11 tllflt
Yesterday v month. September bad 10 and June,
me monin wnen marriages are sum uv
some to be most appropriate, bad only 8.
Drab November had 7 marriages and in
i .. . . . . . a . .
Providence, U. I., Jan. 11- Before 11,6 wind-swept monin or Jiami i nere
isiting the scene of the murder of Dr. wero. ?; monl'18 na weuuing oajs
;. "Franklin Mohr, the jury which is to " ?now?; JnuaT. s e"r""y ?
hear the evidence in tho trial of hi8 April. J? -May, 4j August, wiooer, o;
widow, Elizabeth F. Mohr, and two ne- Mr . . .
crocs. Cecil V. Brown and Henrv R. I Twelve nations were represented in
Spellman, charged with responsibility blP'a7 , , , " Ft00'
for f ie pr niK uont in iha court hoiis loi.o-o ui ivi.i tmu umu uiu'iun
THEY AMOUNTED TO
ABOUT 5 PER CNT,
Interstate O U.i'ce Com
missio-
.aers Opin-
To-day
SMOKED CIGARETTE
to-day to hear a brief preliminary state-
nvent of the case by the prosecution.
The complete opening statements were I
reserved until the return of the jury.
The prosecution alleges that Dr. Mohr
was killed Aug. 31 while motoring to
iewport in company with fcnnly U.
A Tn nuxTirn niT A nnf Burger and that his wife hired three
IJrji-MlUlJ negroes to ci
Lovcen, an important height near Cat
taro Cettinje. The government concedes
the occupation of two positions by Teu
tonic forces in this sector. Fire from
warships in the bay of Cattaro, which
the Austrians have been using as a base
for raids, assisted in pushing the Monte
negrins back.
The French official report this after
noon states that the German offensive
undertaken Sunday in Champagne by at
least three German divisions was a com
plete failure, the Germans being driven
"Bread riots in Berlin and in nearly
every other German city do not occur
without good reasons. We have deprived
the enemy of many necessities of war
and possibly some of the necessities of
life. Her stocks of raw materials are
giving out. Economic pressure, possi
bly better than any other means, will
ultimately persuade Germany of the
fruitfulness of continuing the struggle."
Ho can stand the strain longer than
Germany," continued Mr. Kuuciinan,
"and if we husband our resources the
disaster thst will fall upon her will be
almost irreparable. We must make it
clear, however, that whon peace' comes
we will not permit the outbreak of the
economic war, which Germany would
wage against ourselves and our allies."
Discussing the suggestion of free trade
within the British empire, Mr. Kunci
man remarked that the dominions of
, Great Britain were not likely to alter
SHOT MAN WHO JILTED HER.
Lillian Pfeiffer Then Killed Herself at
Joliet, 111.
Joliet, 111., Jan. 11. John Robart,
head of the Kobart V elding works here,
was shot yesterday (it his office by Lil
lian Pfeiffer, a waitress, who then shot
herself through tbe head and died soon
afterward.
follows: America, 44; Italy, 13; Scot
land, 7; Canada, 5; Spain, 3; Sweden, 1;
Finland, 1; Denmark, 1; Ireland, 1.
Grooms of the same year were born in
the following countries: America, 30;
Italy, 10; Scotland, 11; Canada, 3;
Spain, 4; Sweden, 3j Switzerland, 3;
Finland, 1; Australia, 1; England, 1.
There were 144 males among the 2H3
babies born in Tiarre m 191 o. One pair
of twins are alone in the year's record.
American mothers numbered 114 and
Thfl mifnninhil it. wl.ifh TV Mohr the nationalities of the others number
rod on tl. nivhi. of th hnntimr wa 1. follows: Italian, 71; Scotch, 25;
standing at the spot where it is alleged Canadian. 25; Spanish, 21; Swedish, 3;
to have been stalled on the night of the In8" Syrian,-1; French, 1; England,
murder and the other surroundings wre l' Swiss, 4: Austrian, 3; Algierian, 1;
made to conform as nearly as possible fj"".'h. 2; South African, 1; Greek, 1;
to tbat occasion. Jjiter the iurv went " -""",
out of all the positions which they had their methods or their attitude toward
seized, with the exception of a small
rectangle to the west of Maisons de
Champagne.
According to the statements made in
government circle in London the latest
official advices say the British forces In
Mesopotamia under General Aylmer,
proceeding up the river Tigris to the re
lief of Kut-El-Amara, are still halted to
Sheik Said, 20 miles away. The halt is
said to be due to the weather conditions
and the necessity of removing the
wounded. '
MONTENEGRO MAY
HAVE SERBIA'S FATE
Admission Is Made by Montenegrin Con
sulate at Paris That Two Towns
Have Been Evacuated to
Austrians.
Paris, Jan. 11. Austrian advances on
all fronts and the evacuation by the
Montenegrins of the towns of Berane
and Kouk Rhtatz were officially admit
ted in a statement last night by the
Montenegrin consulate-
the mother country. The colonies were
determined to raise their revenue and to
foster their industries in their own way
and he was afraid the idea of free trade
within the empire must be dismissed.
"I feel the same way of the proposed
Zoliverein to include all the allies, but
if such an arrangement proves essential
to end the war successfully we shall
have it, for there is no arrangement that
the allies are not prepared to make to
that end."
The vounir woman claimed that ulin
had been wronged by Kobart and that f waitimJ room Mrs. -Schwartz was taken
he had past her off. I at the Breckenbridge house on Grove
A note pinned to her clothing read, street where she had hired a room. No
the wages of sin is death, and gave
her father's name as William Ogden of
Richmond, a.
negroes to commit the crime. One of
the negroes has since pleaded guilty to
Woman Arrested at Rutland is Accused manslaughter and is expected to be a
. c. II..JV.. t-.i! ' witness for the state,
VI oicauu Jiawuuag ciuuiu
to Mrs. Walter R. Davenport
"of Springfield.
Kutlund, Jan. 11. A woman giving tl
name ot Mrs. .Mary hchwartz, residence, . ... nwi. 4 ' Mexican, 1; San Marino. 1. There were
Albany, X. V., is under arrest here on u ne honleg of Dr. Mohr and Mrs. Mohr!" American fathers and the others Were
the charge of having stolen a handbag in Providence. The defendants did not .,.ollow,; Jtalian. u; ocoteli, J.; u-
from Mrs. Walter R. Davenport of sccompany the jury, voluntarily waiv
c.;..fli.j . i. :i.... .:.. meir riRiiw,
OMiiiiuiiLm as biJO j an y i obauuii, vuu i .... . ... 111.,
i f v. . t -n a e iur" which was selected at the
..a....K una fMLuiincu ... v" opening session yesterday, is as follows:
Washington, D. C Jan. 11-Pronosed
increases in class and commodity rates
by the rail and lake routes between New
England and middle Atlantic States
points and the West are found to bo
unjustified in an opinion rendered to-day
by tho interstate commerce commission.
1ho increases which were proposed
amounted to about 5 per cent.- .
FUNERAL LARGELY ATTENDED.
DISAGREE IN DETAILS.
GERMAN WARSHIP'S
LIFEBELTS FOUND
One Report Has It tbat They Belong to
,the Cruiser Bremen, Which Was
Reported Last Month to Have
Been Sunk by a Sub
marine. Berlin, via wireless, Jan 11. A Copen
ha gen newspaper states that life-saving
belts from a German warship have been
found on thA Swedish coast, says the
Overseas agency. It is stated author!
tatively that these must be from the
German cruiser Bremen, the announce
ment of the sinking of which by a sub
marine was made last month. An acci
dent to any other ship of the fierman
navy is out of the question, the agency
states.
AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE
SANK PORTO SAID
It Is Said That the Steamer Tried to
Ram the Submarine and Was
Promptly Attacked.
Berlin, by wireless, Jan. 11. A state
ment to-day by the Overseas news agen
cy (tablisiies the fact that it was an
Aut-ian nubmarine whioh sank the
Italian liner Porto Said in the Medi
terranean lnt month, reusing the death
of sin passengers and one of the erew.
it is asserted that the steamer attempt
d to ram the submarine.
WOMAN MURDERED.
Her Husband Arrested at Greenfield,
Masa, Last Night
GrwmWn. Mjm Jan. II. Mrs. Ar
hr L. Wells was shot and killed lat
digi t in the boariing bouae which ah
rond;i-ted. and the joi;-e later arrested
' er binhand on fharpe of murder as
, tw! by his death bed. The
mi pie bad been separated and the po
J:f rwilT th ktiMnJ a jeaknis.
Mrs. W'! was 31 years old.
But Germany and United States Likely
to Agree Fully By Next Monday.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 11. Difficulty
in agreeing upon details is holding up a
final settlement of the Lusitania con
troversy. Count Von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, and Secretary
Lansing had another conference yester
day and it was said later that no final
agreement had been reached although
the outlook was encouraging.
While the United States and Ger
many virtually bave agreed upon the
essential principles involved it was
learned that until a method of express
ing these principles satisfactory to both
sides is found announcement of a set
tlement will be withheld. Count Von
Bernstofff was informed in effect by
Secretary Lansing during yesterday's
conference that the wording of the ten
tative proposal submitted last week by
Germany and since considered by Presi
dent Wilson was inadequate in certain
respects.
A feeling of optimism regarding the
ultimate outcome of the negotiations ap
parently prevails both in official and
Teutonic diplomatic circles. It is free
ly predicted that a settlement accept
able to botn governments should be
reached by next Monday unless unfore
soon events intervene.
By Monday Count Von Bernstorff
liould receive a reply to a dispatch pre
pared last night for the Berlin foreign
office. This is believed to contain the
results of bis latest efforts and sugges
tions regarding certain desires of the
I'nited States to be embodied in the
final settlement.
These suggestions, it was authorita
tively stated, had to do solely with ques
tions involved in the subject of reprisal
and the .British blockade of Germany
which the United States and Germany
both declare to be illegal.
Considoration of public opinion in the
Luited Mates and in Germany is un
derstood to be plaving an important
part in hastening a settlement. Germany
contends that the destruction of the
Lusitania was an act of reprisal and
while deploring d.-eplv the fart that
Americans lost their hvea in the com
mission of this act at the same time
considers that public opinion in Germany
would adversely criticise any action
which would admit the illegality of tor
peoomg i ne vessel under the circum
stances. Germany also is said to ad
mit tbe right of neutrals to protection
and safety. In a word the Berlin gov
ernment is understood to insist upon a
form of settlement which denies that
It was illegal to sink the Lusitania, but
admits it was wrong for that act to
cost the lives of Americana.
Physicians who attended Robart told
him that his recovery was doubtful. At
the hospital he is said to have declared
that his real name was John Ulrich and
that seven years' ago he deserted his
wife and four children in West Philadel
phia. He is also said to have told that
Lillian Pfeiffer, who lived with him as
Mrs. Robart, had deserted her husband,
John Pfeiffer, in West Philadelphia, for
him. !
A woman who is said to have caused
the separation of Robart and Lillian
Pfeiffer is reported to be a chorus girl
who has appeared in the local theatres.
. Wrote Sister of Impending Crime.
Philadelphia, Jan. 11. Mrs. Lillian
Pfeiffer, who yesterday shot John R.
Robart in Joliet, 111., and then commit- i
ted suicide, was a sister of Mrs. Bertha
Shellenbcrger of this city. Mrs. Shel-
lenberger said she received a letter from
Mrs. Pfeiffer yesterday, telling her that
she was going to kill Kobart and her
self. The woman also sent her jewelry
to her sister nerc. '
The suicide was the wife of John
Pfeiffer. Mrs. Shellcnberger went to de
tective headquarters and told of two
letters she had received from her sister.
One came Saturday and with it was
some jewelry and a boy's watch and
chain intended for Mrs, Shellenberger's
son. In one of the letters, Mrs. Pfeiffer
threatened to kill Robart, another wom
an in the case, and herself. Ip the let
ter, she said Robart had lost his love
for her and even struck her.
Mrs. Schellenberger, thinking that the
Chicago police had jurisdiction in Joliet,
communicated with them and then went,
to the local detective bureau. The Phil
adelphia police at once got into commu
nication with Joliet, but were too late.
body saw her steal the bag but a vari
ety of circumstances which came to the
knowledge of the police led to the sus
picion that the woman was the guilty
party. She has the appearance of being
a dope fieml. While she was denying
the trwlt to the officers she was smok
ing cigarettes and seemed to be partial
ly under the influence bf a drug. Several
flu n? Z, "18 Wer HARDWICK CONCERN IN TROUBLE.
diaries Clark, a painter, foreman.
Alfred Duhamel,, grocery clerk.
Harry L. Shaw Cross, mill hand.
William F. Stockwell, fanner.
Roliert D. Hays, decorator.
William II. Green, farmer.
J. Austin Snape, storekeeper.
William II. Mitchell, inspector.
Ora O. Hill, farmer.
John Curtis, lumberman.
Ethan H. Mowrey, farmer.
Charles F. Drugan, mill hand.
nadian, 23; Spanish. 20; Swedish, 3;
Irish, 8; Syrian, 6; -French, 1; English,
5; Swiss, 4; Austrian, 4; Finnish, 2;
South African, 1; Greek, 2; Portuguese
1; South American, 1. Four fathers
w-ere of unknown nationality.
Figures to be submitted by the health
officer for printing in the annual city re
port are to supplement the clerk s rec
ord of deaths for 1015.
URGED DAIRYMEN
TO CAREFUL "METHODS
Vermont and Chicago Granite Co.'a Cred
itors Bring Petition.
Rutland. Jan. 11. Several acta ftt
Are to 5atl for Home" oa the NcwaariIbanitfupt-aiTegT? to have been com-
STUDENTS QUIT FORD PARTY.
President Turnbull of the Vermont State
Dairymen's Association Delivered
Address on Opening Day of
Convention In Bur
, ' lington.
Others to Leave Jan. IS.
The Hague, via London, Jan. 11 Fifty
students, memoers oi the ora peace
expedition, departed yesterday for Rot
terdam and will sail on the Noordam for
Burlington, Jan. II. The Vermont
State Dairymen's association opened to-
REPUBLICANS ELIMINATED.
CALLED INTO COURT.
Menace Publishing Co. and Several of
Its Officials.
.Toplin. Mo.. Jan. 11. The Menace
Publishing company of Aurora and sev
eral of ito!h-T wirr rali.-d in f-dra!
court to day fr trial on charges of mia
csing the ma,;K
From Consideration in Appointment to
Supreme Court.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 11. Presi
dent Wilfon and Attorney General Greg
ory last night conferred regarding can
didates lor me vacancy oi cue Lnitcd
States supreme court caused- by the
death of Justice Lamar. The attorney
general said later tnat no decision was
reached.
A Democrat is almost certain to be
selected. Officials said that enough Dem
ocrats of supreme court timber had been
suggested virtually to eliminate the pos
sibility or a Republican being appointed.
Former President Taft has been sug
gested in messages received at the White
House from many parts of the coun
try, but it is understood there is no
prospect of his being chosen.
Attorney General Gregory and John
W. Davis, solicitor general, who bave
been mentioned, are not being considered
because if appointed they would not be
eligible to participate in the considera
tion oi several imporxant cases now
pending for the reason that they took
part in prepa ration of the government's
argument.
New York. About 100 American mem
bers of the expedition remain
of them will sail Jan. 15.,
milted by the Vermont and Chicago
Granite company with offices in Hard-
wick, are cited in a petition filed yen- day what promised to be a successful
terday with Clerk' F. S. Piatt of the U. convention. There was a fine attend-
S. court in which a number of Vermont ance for a first day. The address by
concerns seek to have the granite com- the president, J. G. Turnbull of Orleans,
. pany forced into bankruptcy. favored more intensive farming, thrift,
f- ir!... n,.nan I.. t. T Uarr nnn.t.'tlnna nt ill- 'Pli rt f tl.
The members of the permanent peace , Hardware company of Montpelier hand separator was important in this
Doara win remain nere wun tne memnors ,, T,.,. K wv:- , tt,j...:..i, t,. .nAn ho ..1,1 TWi,lnf TrKll
of the board from the other neutral na- Xrow & HoIjra ,.- baa c,aimg Ulso opposed a law which might do
lions. - i , . . w . . ... .. .
Th- nrwJ fW filial 4J,aa 1 ,K trmiiiio ui UU " " v uauwi5ullllc.
A 1 Ajl At rT I . I I I iWIlC lO M fcU Lit; UIVU!li. J k
tirsr. nnhlm maormrr m Hs-illutwt Snuayiti.ia .
were made by rmliana of
MARRIED IN FAR AWAY ITALY.
ber sc. jyio. tne trranue -concern iravc
vn mil a it a I - . . . c-
tions. These called the attention ofL-...: f 7 ,
those in the audience ta the necessity to UawL a. :UrtllF . 1
.j ir t , . - knowing the concern wa insolvent and
. I-V..M. ..U.D that on Xovembor 30, the granite com
Mr. and Mrs. Natale Venettl of Barre
Celebrate Wedding Anniversary.
At their home, 38 Pearl street,' yes
terday, Mr. and Mrs. Aatale Venettl eel
.... . ; . 1 v ltTnnJU...H ivn:A . J . 1 i .. 1 . 1. .. : i)L ii: :.
neutral narlnna wnipo am pnntnn r.n J ....... . I . . o . V
r . Inanv an old account of 4.0(0 tliua male- with a dinner narfv. to whiih niurlv
That of Ex-Alderman P. J. McNulty
Was Held To-day.
Many friends of Patrick J. McNulty.
a iiarre granite manufacturer and for
mer member of the city council, gathered
at his funeral services in St. Monica's
church this forenoon, the remains hav
ing arrived in the city early this morn
ing. Rev. P. M. Mckenna, the parish
priest, was the officiating clergyman
and the bearers represented the three
fraternal organizations with which tho
deceased was affliliated. They were:
Barre council, No. 401, Knights of Co
lumbus, Patrick Brown and John W.
Dinecn; Division, No. 1. A. O. H.. Michael
Keefe and D. J. Dunleavev: St. John's
court, Catholic Order of Foresters, Ar
thur J. Loranger and E. X. Normandeau.
There were present several city officials
and former officials who were associated
with Mr. McNulty during the days 'that
he served the city as an alderman and
a Justice of the peace. The floral pieces
were numerous. Interment was mado
in the Catholic cemetery on Beckley
street.
Mr. McNulty's death occurred Jan. 1
in Bedlands, Cal., where he went mora
than a year airo in parch of health.
The remains were accompanied to Barre
by Mrs. McNulty, her three children,
Madeline, Patricia and Genevieve Mc
Nulty, and the deceased's brother, J.
tdward McNulty, who had been sum
moned to Redlands and was on his way
when news of Mr. McNulty's demise
reached him,
Among those from out of the city who
attended the services to-iTay were:
Hugh McNulty of Ottawa, Ont., a broth
er, Mrs. Thomas McNulty of Montreal,
Mrs, Ovila Liberty of Eawden, P. Q.,
and Mrs. Joseph Byers of Montreal, sis
ters of the deceased. Mrs. Liberty was
accompanied by her husband.
Settled Accounts as Executor.
In probate court this afternoon Arthur
T. Smith of Barre Town settled his ac
counts as executor of the estate of Lu
thera J. Collins, late of Barre Town.
TALK OF THE TOWN
wars because
mobilze and -remain in a state of eon-
eon- ,
IflrfPIV hv th moenf nf Knatlirirr mill. I . .
tr1 '.MiU -u-. . ti.-6h. Mward McLne, president of the Ver
" .v.a.ava ""K"0 iAi..rn on.., : ...L..1.
v,- s j , i sinnm-v uivisvr wuwi ii ill y muu tno uv
v..,. .U.vl-.;B Blll,0u ..ere ,Hion.r. that l. mllo,.t,l .lnt
lhe speakers included Judge Ben Ui wi .r.-.j.- ,
W. Zt kV? RIev-J('nk,II-'0yd he has not only failed to turn this mon
i f ? i "d Hoak.n Luken, over ..uwr of the company,
ti;. -- r i - i a. yt t j he also refnt to eie a proper ac
Itnha Van Kmden, a prominent Holland i ? J, V . TA
4--'t lit a. a I'UUIIIIIIK sl VHV IllUlir V BJ CUilCl'lVU, A fc
. " J '. i. n- V , f, ,U"T i claimed he
iti jiK-ii iiiiu urrii juuirieu on vne small
er neutral nations as a result of the
THSEE EXPLOSIONS W ONE DAY.
DnPont Powder Co. Meets with Severe
Losses on Mill Property.
ummgion, iTis jan. n. rollowins
the exploaion at the DuPont powder
plant. Carneys Folnt, N. early yes-
enlsy, in winch three workmen were
killed, two mills blew up at the upper
Hflgley yard near here reaterday after
noon, in one or tne latter accidents
one workman was slightly burned. The
three eiploaions within one dav have
had the effect of making the secret serv
ice and polire d partment of the Iu-
Tont Powder company unusually active
in looking for pibie clues indicating
"outside influent."
The diater at Carney Point waa
due to an explosion of mokle pow
Vr. while at the rn-fr Hagler yard it
was black powder tit west oiT.
present war. She said this was an ur
gent reason why the peace expedition
originating m the I nited States should
be supported.
The platform from which the ad
dresses were delivered was decorated
with American flgs and every allusion
to the desire of the Americans for an
early peace was greeted with loud cheer
ing. While the peace advocates were
preparing for their demonstration the
streets of the. city resounded with the
tramping of troops, tl.;s being a .daily
incident of the result of Holland's mob
ilization. The headquarters of the expedition
is located in a hotel in close proximity
to the barracks from which the fall of
the soldiers feet on the pavement and
the grinding of artillery wheels on the
gravel road are heard morning and
night.
Scenes of much military activity are
to be witnessed in other parts of the
capital where the parks and streets are
utilized for the drilling of recruits. The
military activity in Holland was made
the subject of constant comment by the
peace advocates.
money
is concealing the 3,000.
Another claim is that several suits
have been started against the Vermont
Chicago concern in tho Illinois courts
and that the officers are going to have
Judgments confessed, thus making theni
preferred creditors.
TALK OF THE TOWN
REGIMENT ORDERED HOME.
Granl Jury Probe Opens at Yonngstown
Quiet is Restored.
Youngstown, O., Jan. 11. The opening
of the grand jury investigation of the
strike and riot in Eat Youngstown. the
resumption of work at the plant of the
ioungtown heet and Tub company.
and the ordering home of the 4th regi
ment of the Ohio National (hiard. called
here on strike duty, were the develop
ments in the situation ' veterda v.
Thomas If. Flynn. ceneral organizer
of the .American Federation of Labor.
Mrs. Lester Morgan of Williamstown
was visitor in the city to-ilav.
Mrs. John G. McLeod of Averill street
left to-day for Boston, where she will
be the guest of friends for a few days.
The ladies and pastor s union of the
lled.ling M. E. church will hold its an
nual business meeting and election of
officers at the church Thursday at 2:30
p. m. It is hoped every member will try
to be present.
Miss Maude White, who is senior m
the Notre Dame business academy- in
St. Johns, P. (J., returned to her studies
la ft night, after passing a vacation of
three weeks at the home of her parents.
Mr. and .Mrs. U t. White of Tlwd
street.
Hugh McNultv of Ottawa, Ont., Mr.
and Mrs. Ovila Liberty of Rawden. P. Q.,
Mrs. Joseph Brers and Mrs. Thomas
McAulv of Montreal, P. Q., arrived in
the rity this morning to attend the fu
neral of P. J. McNulty, whose remains
arrived in the city early to-day from
Redlanda. Cal.
Statistics in process of compilation by
the chief of police for printing in the
annual city report indicate that the
number of arrests for 1PI5 was consid
erably larger than in the previous year.
Since" Aujr. 1. when the new law affect
inir municipal courts became effective.
the number of caaea tried before Magis
trate H. W. Scott in city court hat alao
increase.
Barre poultry men are to be repre
sented at the annual ahow of the Ver
mont State roultrv aMociation. which
100 people were invited. With them
assisting in receiving the guests were
their four children, Mrs. Frank Fraquel
li, Miss Angie Vanetti, and Arthur and
Alfonso v enctti. A happy member of
the family party, too, was young Ray
mond Fraquelli, son of Mr. and Mrs.
F. Fraquelli. Hospitality was the key
note of the silver anniversary and many
of those who partook of the substantial
dinner were friends of the couple in
Italy more than a quarter-century ago.
Many who were unable to be present
in the dinner hour called at one time
and another during the afternoon and
evening to tender their congratulations.
Mr. and Mrs. Venettl were the recipi
ents of many gifts, gifts that included
several choice pieces of silver.
Mr. and Mrs. Venetti were married
in Varese, Italy, their childhood home,
in 1891. Ihe latter a maiden name was
Anna Chlarvalli and soon after the wed
ding the couple decided to change their
residence. In 1805 they came to Barre,
where Mr. Venetti was employed for a
time as a graniteoutter. Later his am
bition to engage in the manufacturing
business was realized and a few years
afterward a business which had small
beginnings grew into the Venetti Gran
ite Co, which operates a plant on West
Second street.
FOUR DIED FROM COLLISION.
When Freight Train Struck Street Car
at Springfield, 0.
Springfield, O., Jan. 11. Four persons
were killed and 20 injured, many of
hrm senouslv, when a freight tram on
the Big Four railroad struck a street
car cere last night. .Most or tne vic-
ims of the accident were factory em-
ploves returning from work.
The dead are: Albert Iv. Brunk. mo-
orman of the car; John E. Reed, James
'hirnix, John Mason.
ALL RE-ELECTED
Mrs. Ellen Shorey of Plainfleld was a
business visitor in the city to-day.
A daughter was born this morninu ac
the City hospital to Mr. and Mrs. K. E.
Beckley.
Rev. A. A. Mandigo, who visited
friends in the city while attending the
meeting of the Ministers' Monday club,
returned last evenings to Moretown,
where he is pastor of the Methodist
church.
Mrs. Edson Blanchard of Somerville,
Mass., and Mrs. Frank Snow and daugh
ter, Ivis, who accompanied the remains
of Mrs. Diana Thurston to West Tops-
ham for burial Sunday, returned to their
respective homes this morning, after
passing a few days with relatives here.
I nder the auspices of the Bsrre Board
of Trade Professor Alfred A. Smith of
the Tuck school of administration and
fl.innee is to speak at a smoker to bo
given in the rooms of the Vincitia club
Thursday evening at 8 o'clock. Invita
tions have been extended to the club
members to be present. , A buffet lunch
eon will follow the speechmaking.
Friends of Luigi Lungo, husband of
the woman who was shot by Antonio
Cafli, the murderer-suicide at 16 Third
street Friday night, are awaiting in
structions by letter from Lungo lefors
arranging to ship the family furniture
to Raymond, Cal., where Lungo has been
employed for the past five weeks. Prep
arations were completed this forenoon
for the funeral of Mrs. Lungo. which
was held thia afternoon in St. Monica's
church, with interment in the Catholic
cemeterV on Beckley street. The fu
neral of Caffi was due to take place at
the Perry 4 Noonan mortuarv chapel
on Depot square immediately after the
obsequies for Mrs. Lungo. The remains
of Caffi will be Interred in nope ceme-terv.
Carpenter employed on the new gran
ite manufacturing plant of McMillan
Son. corner of Blackwell and Smith
streets, recently witne-aaed an unusual
spectacle and had it not been for the
kindness shown by Contractor A. B.
Lane, it is not improbable that acrioua
results would have followed an unusual
case of child neglect. Two children were
discerned aboard a heavily laden lumber
team tinder the Blackwell street under
pays. Horsea were bard put to it to
drag the weight over the road, and two
men. evidently entrusted with the earn
"f th lumber, hail apparently resigned
all moral responsibility for the children.
They were plainly tiie worse for liquor,
and as it det eloped one of tbe children,
raw To-iiiclinK of 12. rsd iltn pur-talt-n
ratl er copio-is'y of liquid re'resh-
issud a statement last night in which ; ia to be hel l in St. Albans next week,
he charged that the riotinff here lat I Several local breeders of Rhode Island
week u i financial scheme to depress He is contemplate reeiterir.g r-rns at
the value of tk of tliv WiincMomn ! tho sHow and thre are to bo Barre
heot and Tube eompunv. so tSist a j I tarred Rocks oa tSe floor if the plans
merfpy of ind -pendi nt steel nt.-re-U can I of a prominent Barred Hok fancier do
1 etfected. i-ot go astray.
At Annual Meetin of Montpelier Na
tional Bank.
At the annual meeting of the stock
holder of the Montpelier National l.nk
this morning the fohon d'roctors i n-or;t. Tre ccnt-artr took .be children
were reelected: Albert Tut. Jamesl;to f,e ofF.-o of the tool works en
TV. Brock. Arthur I. Farwoli. Krrd J l'la (-i,"c'l street and a'tf r tbx r,ad re
Blanchard and Herlan TV. hnri. .t a'coire! from a t'.r-roiijh rhiiling. thv
snbskiioiit motmir of t'. dirc t-r Mr. wcr pT-itt'l to ri ) Lome ti Jl
T tittle a ele-ted roiirst. Mr, Ir'k;.x ii Mr. l-ene totinpff rr. Tl
sTo--rroaidet:t. Ijo i H. Tub ri.
an.l 11. L. I aril a;tant ca'hir.
b:'ser ri V e t-i-Vr v-utM
u.1i.-ietit!r to contain on t
I
ro'is-1
cir way.
