ft
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
-
i
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
(THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, TUESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS B?uT!m
BRITISH TROO
S HURRY
10 RELIEVE FORTRESS
Re-inforcements Now Seventeen Mil From Beleaguered
Kut-el-amara, Base of British 0i itions In Mesopotamia-Heavy
Turkish Forces Ba rogress But Post
Is Well Prepared to Withstand Sieg- -Germany Justifies
Submarine Attack on Italian Liner . .t Said
London, Jan. 11. Biitish soldiers going to the relief of
beleaguered Kut-el-amara, Great Britain's Mesopotamia
base, are now within -seventeen miles of the town, accord
ing to the best available information today. But the
Turks, outnumbering them two to one, block their path
and surround the town.
No news of the fate of the garrison has reached here
since dispatches told of the danger to the British as a re
sult of Saturday's fighting in that region. Hence, it is
regarded possible that a dicisive battle may already have
been fought.
Not since the memorable siege of Ladysmith, South
Africa, during the Boer war, have the British been in such
a perilous predicament, so far from home, as thejr find
themselves in at Kut-el-amara. Therefore anxiety, if not
genuine alarm, is felt for the expedition.
The latest advices indicate that the relief forces of
Generals Aylmer and Campbell are in contact with the
Turks in the bend of the Tigris river, east of Kut-el-amara.
The weather, however, is impeding the British
progress. Though no details of the situation have been
received, it is believed the Turks who encircled the British
light wing threw heavy forces between the Kut-el-amara
garrison and the Tigris. If that is the case, the relief
forces must fight their way eastward through this force.
Meantime, officials are hopeful. Kut-el-amara is un
doubtedly provisioned, to withstand a long siege, inasmuch
as it served as the base for the recent unsuccessful Bag
dad sally. Moreover, the British improved the town's
Turkish defenses when they captured it, and it is believed
to be impregnable against the light artillery that the
Turks have drawn from Bagdad.
Berlin, bv wireless to Sayvillc, L. I.,
.Tmi. 11. Justification for torpedoing
the llnlin liner Porto Slid was Riven
in Vienna dispatches today, wiiieh de
clared an Austrian .submarine, sank her
after she liad tried to escape and to
ram the undersea bont.
"The submarine first ordered the
Porto P.iid to stop, but alio attempted
to escape," said the message, "Then
ahe ran up a white flag and stopped
"When the submarino approached,
iliA uti'mimi HiuliliMih- veered in order
to. ram lier. Tlio submarine fired and!
hit her after which she again stopped
nd beg.in lowering her boats.
"Then the submarine stopped firing.
Hpon Approaching, tho submarine
found that boats were pulling away
without heeding thoso who were swim
ming. The submarine. Iiiilted the boat
containing the captain and threatened
to tdioot liini if ho did not return and
sue these people.
"The submarine found two persons
aboard tho steamer, one of whom was
v.-ounded. Tho latter was taken aboard
tiio submarine and bandaged, and then
transferred to the captain's bont. Onlv
then was the Porto Waid torpedoed.
While tho submarino was still aiding
those aboard the ship, the submarine
was shelled by enemy torpedo boats
and yachts."
London dispatches December 15 re
ported that the !)rto Said hid been
submarined, but carried no details. She
was a 0,300 ton vessel.
Greek Likely to Protest.
Athens, .Tan. 11. Allied troopers
Alntioncd outside a Bulgarian church
t Hnlouika today arrested several
Teutonic, sympathizers, suspected of
osplonage. This action, following oth
er arrests, is expected to provoke a
fresh protest to the allies from Greece.
The lTestia today declared that
flrcek ships detained at M.Uta and else
where had been released, and said
that the allies had guaranteed not to
hinder supiilios for Greece within the
limits prescribed by tho commission sit
ting in Paris.
Parliament convenes Janury 24, and
inc.intimo tho government is seeking
assurances that tho Veuizelos members
will not emlmrass King Constantino in
dealing with both tho entente and cen
tral allies.
Consul is Accused.
Tierlin, by wireless to Sayvillc, L. I.,
.Tan. 11. Germany is investigating al
leged hostile statements of Amcriein
Consul Higgins of Stuttgart, accordiag
to tho newspapers today.
Several dnvs ago statements, appar
ently inspired in tho German press, ac
cused Higgins of being British in all
except his birth. Uccnuso of this al
leged situation they demanded his recall.
ihil
nuo iiiaum
"My, but I'd lintn t' have a daugh
ter .it huge," said Mm. Kilford Moots,
ii she laid n city newspaper aside
Kile talk gits in its work.
Great German Offensive.
Paris, .Tan. 11. At least 00,000 Ger
mans participated In Sunday's Chain
pngno offensive, it was nnnounced to
day. "Our artillery fire, together with
tho brilliant defenso of our soldiers In
their subsequent counter ittircks com
pletely nullified the effects of the
German attacks," said tiie cotnmuni
one, "It is now established that three
Gcynan divisions engaged in the attack.'..
Fronch Assaults Repulsed.
Berlin, bv wireless to Sayville, L. T.,
.fun. II. Determined French attempts
to recapture ground lost as the result
of the new German offensive north
west of M.isslgos In the Champagne
were repulsed, said tho war office to
day. Three hundred and eighty pris
oners were taken by the Teutons.
Frinipll flpl-milfinnM ttrna 1t.,Mi,iM .Inn-..
south of Dixmudn and a British aero-
mne near I ournai.
British Ve-isel Sunk.
T.nndnn .Tnn II Tim 1'.ril!u1, .Inn.,..
or Clan McK.irlnns has been sunk by a
submarine, according to official 'an
nouncement today.
Thirteen nerlslipd w)mii flip f'lnn tn.
rarlaiie was sunk, and 21 were res
cued. She was a 4,800 Ion vessel.
White Slave Price List
Now la Federal Hands
T.os Angeles, Cnl., .Inn. 10. A white
slave price list was turned over by the
police to tho federal secret service here
today. H was seized in a rn i . 1 on the
rooms of a woman suspected of being
nn agent for a whito slave ring. The
litt gnvo the values of girls wanted in
the restricted districts of Mexican
3 WAR TIME SCENES AT SALONICA AND IN TURKISH ASIA O
.'.y:..,?:-y-;w.:.v...- ::-t v.v..
r32 l.f "r v;vr"' V y .7,
Water boxes on Turkish desert placed by Germans to aid Ottoman allies; British and Greek transports passing
each other on Salonica road.
, 'The far-sighted Germans have placed water boxes at intervals on the Turkish desert in Asia in order
that their Ottoman allies may not suffer in making the great march on Egypt Upper photo shows a great
array of boxes at one of the water stations. Lower photo presents a curious contrast between the British and
Greek transports. British Tommies look on with interest at the small two-wheeled carts used by the Greeks,
which the former pass on the highway near Salonica,
GREA T BRITAIN SEEKS
TO RESTRICT TRADE
OF GERMAN EMPIRE
By Wilbur S. Forrest
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
London, Jan. 11. England may in
sert in final peace terms with Germany
a clause by which Germany will bind
her own hands in the matter of com
mercial expansion.
With Great Britain's announced In
tention of striking at the roots of
German trado, it was learned today
that commercial experts have suggested
that one of the most effective methods
of doing this would bo to insert a clause
in the pcaco terms whoroby Germany
would agree to refrain from export
business for a period of years.
Leading business men today ap
proved tho speech of President Runci
man of the board of trado in which he
annouaVedl tho (war-ta-tho-hi(lt policy
against Gorman trado and finance. Ad
vocates of cutting off Germany's ex
port business declared, that while the
British navy as mistress of the seas
could enforce such a plan, Germany
might "buy hor way. out" through
heavy indemnities.
Meanwhile, tho board of trado is in
quiring as to tho possibility of a gen
eral boycott agreement between the
entcnto allies, under which these pow
ers would refuse to buy Gorman prod
ucts in the poriod after the war. him
to bid on an enormous scale from neu
ultiuieously Great Britain is preparing
trnl commerce.
In fact, the house 'of commons was
told that the English have already
grasped trado opportunities in such com
modities as optical goods, dyes and
others in which Germany previously
was supposed to have a monopoly. Eng
land has been reaching out hor trade
hands in a bid for a larger slice of
South American trado, in view of
'destruction of German connections with
that land, caused by tho English block
ade. The "industries of tho empire fair,"
to be held ia London iu 1917 will pay
particular attention to England prod
ucts formerly made in Germany, aad
Great Britain will cndoivor to nttract
to this exposition commissioners from
all lands.
In addition to artificial means of
shutting off tho Gormnn trade, English
people, seo a natural barrier to such
.business in Sir Alfrod Mond's sugges
tion that after tho war Germany will
be an outcuHt by reason of hor outrages
during the war.
POPE BENEDICT
PREPARING TO
MOVE FOR PEACE
Prelate Will Hold Conference
With Delegates From Bel
gium This Week
PEACE WITH HONOR"
BULL MOOSE SLOGAN
Three-Fourths of Committeemen Favor Returning to 0!J
Party Fold If the "With Honor" Condition Can Be Com
plied With They Are Willing to Accept Any RepabEcan
Presidential Candidate Providing His Name Is Theodore
Roosevelt Leader Sends Message on Preparedness
rViiorrn Ton 11 "Pfnpf wit.Ti rionor." is tlifi onlv kind
of peace the bull moosers will accept from the G. O. P If
the "with honor" can be obtained, three-fourths of the
bull moose natienal committeemen favor amalgamation
with the mother party. .
This was the outstanding leature coaay as pie uuu
moose national committee got down to the business of
their gathering here. A national convention, simultan
eous with the republican session, appears extremely like
i,r: o-i if fnlnnol p.nnspvrit nr a nrocressive reoublican is
Jl J ' CULIU AX UViyi'vi v- 0 i
nominated by the G. O. P., the bull moose party will be-
come a memory, i ne only oar to sucn a snuauun is me
bull moose fear that the standpatters will control the
republican conventionand squash a Roosevelt boom be
fore it can be developed. ,,. , , , A 1
Committeemen Lyon and Hotchkiss declared that
amalgamation presents the only possibility of defeating
President Wilson; and they thmk that the majority of
republicans feel the same way. , . , A A,
Some line as to the bull moose attack in the event they
again get into the fight was given last night in a banquet
for the committeemen when George W. Perkins criticised
President Wilson's foreign policy and called it vacillating.
The committee must arrange representation in the con
vention based on the vote Roosevelt received in the last
election, and it was expected this would consume several
hours, though such a scheme would be merely perfunctory
if the party decided on amalgamation.
A strong minority favored waiting until after the
other parties had held their convention, but Committee
man Lyon of Texas and western committeemen plan to
override this faction. " : .
Woman Loses Identity;
Thinks Fortune Awaits Her
Pan Francisco,, Jon 11. Certain that
somo great mystery Involving perhaps
a fortune surrounds her childhood, liut
unulilo tn traeo her fiarentajro or any
of her early history, Mrs. Grace Dor
mer, aged 20, today practieully Rove up
hope of establishing her identity, Mie
has asked tlio authorities in various
parts of tho country to assist her.
Mrs. Dormer's earliest recollection!)
are of living at Faulkton, 8. D., with
her foster parents, Mrs, and l'hylander
Allen. Nho is certain Blin wns bom New
Year's day, 1HS1I, at OiiinRO, but a
search of tho birth records of Cook
county failed to reveal ' the name of
"Ncdiski," which she believes to be
her parents' name.
Mrs. Dormer ran away from the Al
len home when she was J I years old:
"At times, Mrs. Allen treated me
unkindlv," sho said. "In some moods
kIio told mo that I came from a titled
family. On ono occasion l'hylander
Allen told mo my father's name was
'Xediskl,' that ho died and left my
mother a small fortune. I am anxious
to know tho story of my origin, but it
seems to bo a hopeless task."
cities, lllondes weighing 120 pounds or
over nro quoted at $1,000 to l,.V)0, ac
cording to looks. Ilruuettes range from
l,000 to $250.
GBANTS PASS P. M.
Washington, .Ian. 11 President Wil
son today nominated W. P. (juinlan to
be postmaster nt Grants l'asi, Oregon.
TODAY'S ODDEST STOEY.
Cincinatl, O., Jan. 11. "I was
expecting a visit from tho stork
judge, and was in a hurry to get
home", said Audrey Abraham,
when arranged beforo Municipal
Judge Fox charged with speed
ing. "Have you ever been arrest
ed before f" asked tho judgo.
"Yea, about two yours ago,
for I lie name offense, and I have
hud the samo excuse."
"My, that stork is keeping
you busy", suid Judgo Fox with
a smile. "Costs suspended."
Wood Alcohol Cause
of Death In Seattle
Seattle, Wash., Jan II. T. Tukniia, a
druggist, is In jail today anil will bo
charged with manslaughter for selling
wood alculiol which is alleged to have
caused severul deaths.
Three men (lioil yesterday from wood
alcohol poisoning, bringing up to 12 tho
total number who luivo succumbed to
cheap liquor substitutes since tho dry
law becnino effective Detectives de
clare they saw Tannka sell two pints
of wood alcohol.
John Hums, John Alton and nn un
identified man nro tho latest victims
of alcoholism. Henry (Jilmnrtin, uged
is In a critical condition from the
same cause. Five men who any they
bought wood alcohol from Tannka aro
held in the city jail as witnesses.
By Henry Wood.
(Unitod Press Staff Correspondent.)
. lionio, Jan. 11. Pope Ilouodict hopes
to tako tho first practical step toward
pcaco this wook,
Cardinal Mercier, of Belgium, and
Bishop Hcylan, of Namur, are expected
hero and will bo grunted an audience
with bis holiness when tlicy will tell
him tho terms upon which Belgium
will ngroo to aa early peace.
Tho popo has beon convinced from
the beginning of tho grcit world war
...ui lumoratioii of Belgium is an lui
perutivo preliminary to any peaco
terms, and it is understood that ho iiaa
oo ..uiMimi uoui niiirn, jn tlio recent
consistory, Curdinal llurtmann, of Col
ogno snbiuiucd ueriuuny s terms lor
ovacuation of Belgium. Tho pupa next
desired to learn tlio Belgians' views,
and to this end Oermany readily con
sented to pussago of tho prelates to
Koine.
Several members of the Belgium re
lief committee 1'ioiu 1ondoii aro al
ready In liomo and It Is understood
that tho Vatican will solicit their views
as to tho solution of the Belgian prob
lem. After learning tho terms ot Bel
gium, tho pope pl.ing to Biibmit them
io uermany, imping to ucgui a series
of compromises he believes necessary
to peace,
Though Belgium hns been crushed by
invasion, tho fact that sho has tho
backing of tho allies places her in a po
sition at least to foriuulato tho terms
which tho pupo seeks.
Stocks Break Violently
In Wall Street Today
(Copyright 11)10 by tho New York
Evening Post.)
New York, Jan. 11. Another and
exceedingly violent break in war stocks
today sent down the prices of several
of them from three to six points on
heavy selling and again unsettled the
whole market. There, wns some indica
tion of a "round up" that is to say, a
concerted attack whereby a level was
created permitting tho shorts to cover
ndvantageously. There was not, how
ever, any indication of forced selling by
reason of depleted margins. A large
outstanding speculative account has ap
parently accumulated.
There is no sense In ascribing this
severo readjustment to the "(lary In
terview" or tho "Canadian car and
foundry financing" for In ui! the fore
casts of market conditions for 11)10, nut
one failed to tako It for granted that
I hero would be u break In war stocks,
or to warn tho street of risks in thai
quarter,
Latest from tlio war r.ono shows that
everybody is winning.
From Governor Johnson, of Califor
nia, came tho following mcssago to-
Jll"Vo have every reason to bo jubl
i ti.. .i. , ami thn nartv havo
exerted a most wholesome influence on
th nation's poutlcil me.
ivnn. Cbnrlcs 8. Bird, of Mass., the
committee had this word: "The wel
fare and security or mo consul "
party advantages and personal fool-
. third ticket
ings secomi. i wm ,
rather thaon a rejctionnry or second
rato candidate. Wo ougnc io pui
responsibility plainly up tho to repub
licans."
Formor Senator Heveriugo s niciB..
wns largely a- plea for preparedness.
Medill MH'ormlck, who recently de
clared himself a republican, Is partici
pating in tho conference. Mississippi
and Nevada nro not represented by
committeemen.
At nn open conference of committee
men and pnraty leaders, Allen Wh.to
precipitated discussion of tlio manor
of holding a convention simultaneously
with tiio republican meeting, when ho
, i. i, Ihiia 7. Hovernl com-
lliuveu iiiwi, if " " " . . .
mitleenien, however, shut off a voto by
saying tlut tho coinmiuco uscii.
decide. , , . i i
"Bill" Flinn, of Pittsburg, insisted
upon open discussion and declurcd him
self flatly for amalgamation.
........ .i, titi,,miM nro nro-
gressives anyway," he said. "And if
.... l. Ifl Illtfli Willi III!" 1 IT1M1 !."'."
wu nun ui i ii M .
.. . ...if i't.iiv1vnnijL would not navo
' f4'l!..,..1 '.-111. Itn PR PmiroHo as
IMTIl Hi i in u'i t "is -
senator. Tho progressives annum not
cam wiiat they nro labelled. All wo re
after is results."
Ho declared thnt Colonel uoosovoiv
is not tho only man capable of running
, i. t.. . i,n i.niinii. but. ho udded,
he knew of no ono who could do it.
lienor. ... , ,i
William Chi ds. ot .NOW lorn, urgou
slinult ineous conventions.
A. F.. CJ rif nth. ot WusliiiiRion sun-,;
was bitter against nn amalgamation
wri.ii. timtlilo want me ITU-
gi'essivo party to live and to continue.
as a party." .
Several others spoko .igainst simul-
- .. i ;,,,. a, i.l rinnllv Per'
lllliruun i.-unvi, ., - -
kins adjourned tho conference until
3::l0 o clock. Tiio nine nun i'i
the convention wns to no uccmi-u
Message From Roosevelt.
ri.:.. Inn 11. Askins the bull
mooso national committee, Tn session
here today to drop nil purely pnrnsan
considerations, tolonei noosevcii um...
wired tho members a plea for prepared
ness. ...
In it, bo declured the country faces
. ...., t ..i.l. nn.l Hint the nation has
fallen fur short of Its duties for tho
past IS months. The message urn not
mention Hoosevclt ns presidential
candidate.
Tim mnii4iiL'n u-ns road bv the coin-
mi) ii.iiiin mid si'ores of other bull
f fniifirncn iirellmin
nrv to tho coinmitlee'i executive sua
sion.
"There Is a crying need that we dis
'regard uH but vital issues affecting
CONVENTION JUNE 7.
Chicago, Jan. 11. The na
tional progressiva: convention
will be hold in Chicago June 7,
simultaneously with the republi
can convention, tho national
committeemen voted this afternoon.
our nitional lifo," wucd Roosevelt,
"and strive wholeheartedly for a
sound Americanism which Bhall insist
that every man within our borders bo
an Amoriean and nothing nlso.
Wo must do justieo to our own peopla
at homo, and iusist thut they have jus
tice when they aro abroad. We mustt
insist upon x most thorough going pre
pirodness to protect our rights aguinst
all possiblo attack by any aggressor.
Much preparedness is tho best guaran
. -J hntmi-nliln Tinneo. We must
HJW ui " ........ ,
over remember Hint there cannot ftw
such preparedness in tilings miicnm
unless there is also that preparedness
. ..i a .i ,;,if wlili-h nlonn renders
a nation fit to perform its high, and
difficult iluties in nnuonui u
nationul life...'
Heading between tlio lines, some com
mitteemen said thut the messign
squared wit" Ocorge W. Perkins; at-
i,.i, Prnsiilent. Wilson last meat.
particubirly tho part referring tot
'i.tin wlmn thev aro abroad." They
hold that in this, ltoosevelt hod indi
cated an Intention of making, if nee
cs.ir direct tittaielk against th
Wilson foreign policy and likowlsei
that ho had Indicated a stand for t.
broader prcpnrcdnoHS program than ihm
prosent admiiiistintion seeks.
ENLAEUE BTOUK. XJUWO W
Pnrtlnnd. Or.. Jan. 11,. Tho
capacity of tho Portland yards,
now tho largest on tho const,
will bo increased 2" per cent this
year, it was announced today.
It la planned to spend a,u,uuu
lor improvements liiimciiniitiijr,
T
THE WPlTHUt
-
?
1 Just ho
Ito oEr one
Oregnnt Tonight
nnd Wednesday
fair, continued,
cold; easterly
winds. .
