UAIL3
From San Franclece
Mataonla. Oct 10.
For 8m Franclaco
Wilhelmina, Oct 4.
From Vanceuvtr:
Makura, Oct 4,
r: -. iX 7
For Vancouver:
.Niagara, Oct IS. -
.V II, A I i I 4 f i 'S I f I I I 1 I I 1,1 I I --.,v i " I '-A k I I I - V I - I i - i -I v - 4
ii i 1 1 f - I i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i . ,. i i i i -, -j :- -'M-x: i i i. i i - i i i i- i i i i I i i i i ' " i i i i ii I' i
1 1 . . a j a A i .1 a - i m H. i mm - - -r ... m m i . - m i t i i r t i i i i t . . " . r i i. i i i - i
Etentrg Bulletin. E.t imvno. ;' 12 PAGE? -HONOLULU, TEBBITOBY OP HAWAII, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1910. 12 PA0E8. 1 PRICE FIVE CESTS
. IHwiUin 8Ur. Vol. XXIV.- No. : ' i
J ;
MkiM
SHERIFF'S m
POVJERLESSSEE
BOLD ACT DOHE
Resistance to Excited Crowd of
"Men and Boys Would Have
Led to Pitched Battle, Says
Rose, Admitting His Officers
Unable to Protect Strike
v Breakers, From Molestation
SHIPPERS HAVFpLENTY
OF MEN AT WORK TODAY
Organizing to Give Them Lodg
ing on Docks; More Labor
Than They Can Use at Ex
isting Scale of Wages, They
Say, and Declare Vessels
' Will Be Despatched on Time
At the Ewa end of Pier 18," ehip-
XPtrm tnr riernoon rx puvuny u
1 blockade 12 feet high and made of
. 2-lnch ptanka which la expected to be
' finished eirly thla evening.
Ten minutes after the whittles blew
for noon today an aotomoblle transfer
truck of the Honolulu -Construction
A, Drayinfl Company filled with strike
breakers1, came down Queen etreet at
a flood dip, turned the corner and
headed for Pier 16.
At once an outpost picket stationed
near the pier cava -a' warning ahout,
,and immediately union picket rprang
up apparently .from nowhere, most of
them coming from the O. R.,& l
acalea opposite Pier 17, , where they
had been lying In the shade keeping
watch. .' -
More than 40 picketa ran at top
" speed toward the truck, but the driver
turned on mwe gaa" -and dashed upon"
: the wharf, going at easily 20 miles
an hour. He escaped the Nearest pick
ets by 60 feet"- v- -.
Curset.'thouts and epltheta of varl-
oua : uncomplimentary kinda were
hurled after the fleeing truck by the
picketa aa it disappeared down the
length of the pier toward the strike
breakers' 'camp" at the lower end.
That they had 300 strike breakers
working the Manoa and . Wllhelmlna,
and 300 more waiting to go to work
the minute they were needed, was an
nounced by McCabe, Hamilton & Ren
ny thla afternoon "We have more
'than vva can use," said officials of the
. : firm. ' -: .;. '
The stevedoring firm claimed 100
of the strike-breakers are -Japanese,
with 75 on the Manoa and 25 of the
: -Wilhefmina. The balance of the strike
breakers consisted mainly of Filipi
nos, who predominated; Chinese, a
close second, and a few Portuguese
Parid Hawaiians. .v ":'1
All the strike-breakera were fed at
neon aboard the barge Bennington at
Pier 16. They were brought In the
Young Brothers' launchea Louise and
Hfkl Huki to the barge, from Pier 1,
where the Wllhelmina la berthed, and
Pier 15, where the Manoa ia discharg-
. ing. . ; - 'y.;.;:r;
. ' - ' ., - '-..I,' ""
Lawlessness among, the atriking
' . waterfrontera and their eympathlzera
reached a new height early thla morn
ing when a mob estimated to number
'1000 men and boya interfered with
Oahu railway curs taking strikebreak
ers to the docks by the' ?railroad
: tracka. : . ' s:: .v. ' ::y,-, j':-.. y::--One
car was switched off to a aid
ing under Intimidation of the atrik--era
but later picked up by the engine
and taken on. Another was not only
. seized but held so defiantly that in or
der to avoid trouble, the police al
lowed It to be taken back to the O.
R. & L. station and so far as tan be
" learned, after it was opened and the
frightened atrikebreakera . emerged,
none of them jot to their employment
on the docka. '
Reports were first that both cars
ha been taken down the O. R. & L.
line to a point in the Kalihl section
and there the atrikebreakera told to
"bear tV but thia'. proved Incorrect,
' according, to the emphatic atatement
at the police sUtion at noon. Police
cfficiaia ay that but-one of the two
s care eeized waa actually ' kept from
reaching the dock. -
Sherff Rose's men were unable to
Control the situation and the atrikera
admittedly took the upper hand. The
sheriff aaya that if hia men had used
force there would have been a general
melee and a pitched battle with the
atrikera and their gangs of followera,
Thla waa the most sensational de
velopment In a'day which otherwiae
" showed the employera aa very bvioue
ly winning In tai'' determination to
imove the frelaht"
By organized effort and resolute as
sistance, the shippers are now secur
ing laborers In urge quantities. Many
; are coming froia down the country,
and It Is understood that it waa the
; carloads of, these, reaching the city
early today, that gave the strikers
, the opportunity to overawe the police.
The Star-Bulletin was Informed to-day
by shippers that they are getting
v tContiouel on page two) ,
Pol i ce, Seizes MM
i
NEW. YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
Following are the closing prices of
stocks on the New York market to
day, sent by the Aaaociated Press over
the Federal Wireless:
Yester
Today, day.
12'2 127'
113'2 1125B
Alaska Geld
American Smslter . .
American Sugar Rfg..
American Tel. A Tel.
Anaconda Copper ....
1124 112
133
96 Va
106
92?
Wk
555
23'A
97
107',
912
89
550
24
Atchiaon
Baldwin Loco.
m i
Baltimore e Ohio.....
Bethlehem Steel
Calif. Petroleum . . . . .
Canadian Pacific ......
C, M. & St P. (St. Paul)
Colo. Fuel & Iron,. 7....
Crucible Steel .........
Erie Common ..........
180H 179
.96H S6's
60H
95
40H
OU" 2
95
40 : ;
General Electric .....
181 180
General Motors ........
Great Northern Pfd.....119Ji 119'4
Inter. Harv N. J....... 116 117
Kennecott Copper 53 56
Lehigh R. R. ..;...;.. S4!4 84'
New York Central . . . . . 1 10Vi 109i
Pennsylvania . .
Ray Consol. . V
258 25
,102- 101
'132 1322
24 24
220 222
Southern Pacific . . . . .
Studebaker ... ..... ...
Tennessee Copper . . . . .
Texaa Oil ..
Union Pacific
150 150 .
U.S.. Steel
....... 7
U. 8. Steel Pfd...,V. .. 1214 1214
Utah 954 95
Western Union ........ 100Vs 100
Westlnghouse . : . . . 64 64
Bid. fEx-dlvidend. Unquoted.
"'" . v SUGAR 'V.
SAN FRANCISCO, Oct 3.Sugar:
96 deg. test, 6.02 cents. Previous quo
tation, 5.99 cents. ' vvv.
Maj. Donald McRae Cables His
Father, Adjutant Hawaiian
- Dept., of His Move
A short, terse, cablegram, rGoing
to the front," signed, "Don,- just re
ceived by Cot J. H. McRae. adjuUnt
of the Hawaiian department, conveyed
the news to his family that Maj. Don
ald McRae, 23rd Battalion of British
Infantry, has left England for "some
where In France," and is now actively
engaged in the first British attacks
that have characterized the fighting
on the western front during the. past
few days. . ' .:
Maj. McRae has had . very rapid pro
motion since his arrival in Canada In
January of this year, when he enlist
ed as a private in theAmerican Ie
gion, -which was being organized there
at that time.' ', :.; ', :.
Leaving his studies at the Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology,
where he," would, have graduated in
June In the mining engineer's course,
Donald went to .Toronto, Canada,
where he enlisted as a private. Three
years at West Point had fitted him
for a commission, and at the first op
portunity he was made second lieuten
ant and a moath later he was com
missioned captain and made adjutant
of the " regiment, a position requiring
the military knowledge and training
which he was one of the few who pos
sessed.
IS 2 1 ,428 T
With three days to grind the pro
duction of Olaa Sugar Company is
21,428 tons Tor the 1916 crop. These
are the figures that were given mem
bers of the stock exchange this morn
ing. ; .They were compiled as of Mon
day and the grinding is to finish it
Is expected Wednesday. Brokers 'es
timate ftat the extra grind from the
date of compilation of figures will add
about 300 tons to the figures given
and that the final figures for the year
will be very close at 21,750 tonsJ
Considerable interest has attached
to the probable final figures of the
Olaa CTop. There was a considerable
reduction from original figures made
and then a further reduction of 500
tons in a still later estimate. The
figures given above are somewhat In
excess of the last reduced estimate.
It Is further said among the stock
brokers that the prices being obtained
for Olaa shipments are considerably
higher than the price upon which esti
mates of earnings have been based
and that therefore earnings will not
be affected to the extent that some
had feared. .; -.-"
Sflli0F0FFICERv
PRODUCTION OF
OLM MONDAY
ONS
BROOKLYN WINS
SERIES TO START ON SATURDA Y
First Two Games at Boston; Phillies Drop Two Contests to
Braves Today and Lose Chance at Flag
- : - i jt
(iiMciittd PrwM Brrle hy WlrM)
PHILADELPHIA, Pa, Oct. 3. Brooklyn today won : the National
League pennant for the first time since 1900. The Philadelphia Quakers
lost the second game of the day to the Boston Braves and with it their
chance at the flag
Sixteen years ago Ed Hanlon led th Brooklyn team ti victory, with
two present American League managers on the squad. These two were
Fielder Jones, leader of the St. Louis Browne, and Hughey Jennings, man
ager of the Detroit Tigers.
Wilbert Robinson, the present manager of the Brooklyn team, was a
member of the old Baltimore Orioles under Hanlon, and John J. McGraw,
manager of the Giants, who were defeated today, waa another member of
the team. Charles Ebbets, the president of the club haa held that posi
tion for nearly 20, years, y
NEW YORK, OcL 3 The National Commission hat decided that the
first game of the world series will be played at Braves' field in Boston on
Saturday afternoon. The second game will be played on th.e same field on
Monday. The third and fourth games will be played in Brooklyn on Tues
day and Wednesday. Braves' field, which la the National League park, waa
selected on account of the large seating capacity, as Fenway jaark,' where the
American -League games were played will accommodate only 20,000 specta
tors. Altogether 42300 spectators witnessed the third game! of the series at
Braves' field last year. 1
-PHILADELPHIA, Pa, Oct 3.
Sterling pitching by "Lefty" Tyler
Sterling pitching by "Lefty" Tyler
of the Braves shut the Quakers out
cf the pennant today, when the Boston
southpaw held the home team to five
hits and one run in the second game.
Boston hit Ersklne Mayer and "Chief
Bender hard throughout, and the
Braves In addition played an error
lesa game In the field.
Alexander had tired on acocunt of
his great feat of yesterday, and Rixey
had failed In the first game, and with
defeat' staring Moran in the. face he
sent In Mayer to stop the battling
Braves; - Mayer ' failed, and ;"ChIef
Bender,' who haa pitched in a, nun er
of world series contests, was sent in,
but he, too, failed to hold the visitors,
and the. Quaker Infield went to pieces.
The , score: R. H. E.
Boston .................. 6 11 . 0
Philadelphia" 1 .3 i
j BatteriesLrk J"yler and; .Blackburn,
Gowdy; Mayer. Bender and Klllifer.
Richard Rudolph, the heady little
pltctTef of the Boston Braves, who has
had much to say in deciding world's
series contests in the past, handed
the Quakers In Quakertown a rude
shock this afternoon when he held
the Phillies to eight hits, which were
scattered throughout, and as a result
Boston defeated Philadelphia, 6 to 3,
In the first game of the doubleheader.
It was his teammates with the bat
which put the game on Ice in the sev
enth 'Inning, when the band of Braves
News
ate
vNEW YORK CLEARING-HOUSE SETS RECORD t
. NEW. YORK, N. Y, Oct. 3. Tra naactions in the New York clearing
house for the year ending September 30 exceeded $155,000,000,000, a new
national record. ; :- ;' -" y r" '
STREET CAR DISASTER IM CLEVELAND
CLEVELAND, O, Oct. 3-Two street cars during the ruth hour today
dropped 50 feet when, the end of a bridge over the Cuyahoga - river col
lapsed.' Firemen and policemen rushed to the scene In ambulances and
took charge of the reacue work. Nineteen women have been taken to the
hospital. It is estimated that five have been killed and more than 60 in
jured, and aeveral are probably fatally hurt.
' COST OF LIVING SOARS
WASHINGTON, D. C Oct. 3. Figures made out here-show a marked
Increase In the cost of living. Flour la higher than incer the Civil War,
potatoes are 116 per cent higher than a year ago and meat la 24 per cent
' higher than a year ago. Beans, which are a short crop, are 70 per cent
higher. Cheese has gone up 23 per. cent
''lX--:' U. S. AVIATION SERVICE VINDICATED
- WASHINGTON, D. C, Oct. 3-Thf special war department board which
haa investigated the condition of U. S. military aeronautics has reported and
-the report not only falla entirely to substantiate the allegations of Ineffi
ciency of army officers but has. dearly established that the developmenta
of thls' branch of the service are "being conducted with 'energy, and fore
: sight" - . " . . - .-':"-. ::f ;: ; ',V; ;- -.
" CHRISTIAN SCIENTISTS TO BUILD CHURCH
William A; Newman, a well known architect of San Francisco, has been
employed by First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Honolulu to draw plans
for its church edifice, which is to be built otMhe church lot, on the corner of
Wilder avenue and Kewalo street Pujs are: under way to make this a
notable church home. 1 . .
'.- "JOSH" TUCKER TO COLLECT HEIAU DATA -(
I Joshua D. Tucker, former commissioner of public lands, whose term ex
: pired on March 4 last, has been engaged by Superintendent of. ' Public
Works Charles R, Forbes to secure data on ancient heiaus. Forbes said
this afternoon that the work will last about two weeks. The expiration of
Tucker's term last March was preceded by a request from the governor
for his resignation.
TWO COMPANIES DECLARE EXTRA DIVIDENDS : ;
Extra dividends were this afternoon declared by two sugar companies,
the Wailuku and Onomea. .The directors of the former company ordered
the payment of an extra dividend of 3. per cent In addition to the regular
monthly dividend of 1 per cent on October 10. This Is a dividend disburse
ment of $120,000 for the month: y r '
Onomea directors, ordered a dividend of 8 per cent in addition to the
regular monthly 2 per cent on October 20. This will make a dividend dis
bursement for Onomea In October of $300,000. : V ; . v "
- DR. RAYMOND TESTIFIES ON MEAT SHIPMENTS :
i Swinging from the subject of Inter-Island freight and cattle rates to
that of methods of handling meat In shipment Dr. J. H. Raymond,, Maui
cattleman; witness at the continued hearing which the public utilities com
mission is holding, gave, a detailed d escription of methods . of slaughter
this afternoon.-: ' : ' " ? - - :
, .c Dr. Raymond declared that the system of shipping cattle before . slaugh
ter should be prohibited by law. He said tests that he had mad& of both
methods together with" his treatment at the hands; of the Hawaii Meat
Company bad led him to drop the shipping of live cattle -and secure" his
own boat to send the dressed meat in cold storage. 'This method Is hu
mane, economical and sanitary.T he said. The witness testified that he has
no complaint whatever to make aga Wsl "the Inter-Island .. Company, and
absolutely no fault to find wIC their method of doing .business. .; The
Territorial Marketing Division handles his entire supply.of approximately
100 cattle a month.- - - " . r t-
mm
PENNANT; BIG
tomahawked Eppa Jeptha Rixey, Jr,
the tall semaphore of the William
Penn aggregation, 7 and changed the
F. F. V. of Culpepper Court House to
F. F. B., which meant Fine For Bat
ting. Rixey, who was counted on to
hold the onrush of the Braves, failed,
and Moran sent fa . Irving" Kantleh
ner, a resident of San Jose, Cal, and
late of the Northwest League Tia
Pittsburg. He fx Jed to stop the team
after Ersklne Myer had received a
call to the shower. ' Then Joseph Oes
chger, another ;alifornIan, was call
ed to the mound, and remained to the
end. '':-'-'t -.; v' .., "
' Philadelphia lost . opportunities to
hold the Braves, but a cluster of er
rors at a critical; point ' gave the
Braves aj opportunity to stage a ral
ly, and with Itudolph pitching good
ball the Quakers, did not threaten in
the later' innings. -The'score:
: ::-V- K. H. E.
BostonV . :V" -W.iJ-f j 2
Phnadelphla f.i ..v.' 3 v 8 iT
Batteries' Rudolph -.and Gowdy,
Blackburn. ; Rixey, Mayer.i'KantJeh
SeT, Oeschger and Klllifer,--
BROOKLYN, N. Y., Oct. 3. Brook
lyn, making a grand fight for the pen
nant, hammered two New York pitch
ers for 14 hits this afternoon, and won
out by a score of 9 to 6. The' fnfleld
ers erre'd. but the heavy attack forced
the Giant pitchers to leave the bench
and, Rube Benton; and Bill PerritL
; fContinrw on pajce two!
A Gkice
f."'V't
At
Laborers
H 'DRIVE' OF
ALLIES FAILURE,
Official Cablegram Says Anglo
French Offensive Tried Yes-)
terday on Broad Front
(German OfficiaL)
r GERMAN HEADQUARTERS RE
PORT,' Oct 2.- On the western front.
In the battle field north of the Som
me, a great new battle Is on today.
Over a front more than 20 kilomfcters
long, between Thiepval and Rancourt
the British and French, after a very
heavy artillery preparation, sallied
forth for an attack.
At many places the enemy was re
pulsed by our ; well-directed gunfire.
Where detachments penetrated they
succumbed In a fierce' hand-to-hand
fight with our unshakeable Infantry
Just north cf the Somme a French
separate' attack was repulsed. ;
The battle went on the. whole night
and was in full swing today. South of
the Somme there was some lively ar
tillery dueling.. ' "
i North .of Lesmenil a German re
connoitering . detachment returned
from a successful; raid "with one offi
cer and 28 men captives. t.
The military establishments of Ca
lais were attacked by one of our air
ships. - ,
On Prince Leopold's. front eastern
war theater, fire activity is Increas
ing west of Luck. The enemy charg
es were frustrated in our curtain fire.
Russian artillery attempting to drive
forward, the soldiers by fire, directed
on their own trenches, did not change
the situation. ; ;
Some reconquered positions are In
bur hands and the enemy left 1500
prisoners with us, all hostile-attempts
failing, as well as new campaigning
cn both sides of the Brody-Lemherg
railroad . : 'i..;'
r On Archdtfke Carrs' front the torn
bat east of the Zlota Llpa hag contiri
ued.: ; : , :; ,; l;.
In the Transylvania war theater, oh
both sides of Kokel, the Rumanians
gained terrain near and north of Or
so va, where the attacks of our allies,
however, are now gaining success. ln
the Hatseg mountains hostile attacks
on both sides of the Strehl ; valley
were repulsed and a height conquer
ed by Austrians. : ; ;;
. In the Balkan war theater hostile
troops obtained a footing on the right
of the Danube.. Southwest of Toplalrs
enemy attacks were repulsed. 1 On th'e1
Macedonian front violent combats be
tween the Serbians and Bulgarians at
Kaimak Calan are going on. We have
attacked British detachments advanc
ing on the eastern Struma bank. ;
George H. Angus,1 president of Mid
Pacific Carnival, Ltd.,' and a member
of the Hawaii Promotion Committee,
predicts that Honolulu will have the
largest crowd during the Carnival sea
son that the islands ever have seen.
In a letter read today at a luncheon
of the Carnival directors, in the Com
mercial Qlub, 'Angus writes: ,
"I predict that we will have the
largest crowd during the Carnival sea
con that the islands have ever had.
While in St Paul I had an opportunity
to call on Cal Stone and he informed
me that from inquiries their various
offices had so far, received for. travel
to the islands every steamer would
be crowded. : --Vi' V-
The islands ' are ; certainly being
well advertised, and from the fact that
there is practically ,no travel to Eu
rope, the Hawaiian Islands will , re
ceive more than their share of tourist
travel." . r: V- iil :;-y
During his travels on 'the mainland,
Angus has been busy collecting fire
works catalogues and quotations. At
the luncheon today, this material was
discussed informally and turned over
to the water pageant committee, Harry
Denison, chairman. . :'
1
mm
ZEPPELIW LOSS
BERLIN, Germany, Oct:3.-German
admiralty report: On the night of
October 1-2, several naval airEhlps
successfully bombarded .Lcaicn and
the Industrial establishments oa the
Humber. In spite of viclcct shellls
by Incendiary grenades ti attacks
by hostile flyers, the airships rettrn
edsafely, except one, which was ob
served by the other airsh!p3 to -t3
set on fire by sliots frcra cztzZy tzt
teries and fell above Lc:h. ;
Uw ASSERT
ANGUS PREDICTS
YET IN ISLANDS
GERL
m An
TS
"CA,PA!SIOF!IATE"IAP?El
BY 9
TED BRITISH STATESMAN
KING FERDINAND'S GENERALS THROW FORCE ACROSS
DANUBE AND MENACE VON MACKENSEN, WHO IS RE
PORTED TO HAVE EVACUATED TURTUKIA MORE
AGITATION IN GREECE . .
, tAaoeUtd Pre Sric by Fedwal Wlwlm)
BERLIN, Germany, Oct Austrian and Ceriran monitors cams up
the Canute today In the rear of the big Rumanian army which crossed
k j j .j.j ei'.ari mi4 4trnwri th DOntaon hridoea -whieh '
iri river inn in,auu uwiyai
. the Rumanian officera had thrown
is thus cut off In Bulgaria.
. On tha other Rumanian front In Transylvania, tnt Teutons norxn or re
garaa are withdrawing before superior Rumanian forces.
SOFIA, Bulgaria, Oct 3. The Bulgarians have retreated under heavy
6erblan artillery fire south of Kaimak Calan, In order to avoid unnecessary
loss. They have withdrawn to their main positions in Mogltnlca valley;
' ' ' - ;"' .
' (AtaocUtvd Prew Srric fcy Tinl Wlrl) . ..
IUIIM ING HAM, England, Oct. 3. -Lord llrycfe. noteil English
btatesman and diplomat, iu an emphatic spm-h here toda.v warned
the British people against carryins on a campaign of hate against the
Central To-ers which would lead to measure o Masting bitterness.
He criticized particularly talk of crushing Germany economical
ly bv a long trade war at the conclusion of the militaryUonflict.
" Ixrd IJryee's sieech, delivered earnestly and with eloquence be
fore a large gathering, Indicated that he believes in a plan of world
arbitration. He decried the spirit of hate which, he said, had been
exhibited against the Germans in the talk of a lasting trade wnr.
He adverted to the proposaj of a league to restrain aggression by any
power, no matter how strong, and to compel arbitration. : v
"If there, is to be a recurrence of wars, each becoming more
lerrible with the unceasing advance of science; we may well despair
of the future," he declared. : v: : ,
-r- .. :;';.v ' ' .' -
Rumania's Invasion of Bulgaria XJ0X
' May Cut Off von Macliensen's Ary
-,'-' . -... .
i '.:'! (Atoc!td Pnii 8erTle r Ftdanl TTlrelMi) ' . ' .
1 ! XONDOX; Kng., Oct. 3. Kews readied here today .that tho lead
er of the Teuton-Bulgarian forces in the recently-invaded Dobrtidj:u
district of Rumania; Gen. von -Macfcensen, has withdrawn his troops
from the fortress of Turtnkai, tlie stronghold on the Danube, Ju Silis
tfla, taken a few'weeks ago from the Rumanians. '";"'""".
;r;TUTuewS nn'ey frtfnl "Rdlfltr U'garfa' believed tb4mafki thbrgiTr-
uing of an effective counter-offensive "by the Rumanians, ; v ,
' Military experts hold t,hat the Romanian coup may nptct; the
German strategy in the Balkans. The stroke of throwing a -force
across the Danube t& Bulgaria is the outstanding feature of tho
eastern war arena, and if the force proves to be formidable In size,s
it . will constitute a serious menace to the aruiy commanded by von
Mackensen. "The latter will then have the Romanians and Russians
in front and oh one flank, and the allied armies of tha SerbsBritish
and French and possibly the Greeks, in the rear, and his army may
lie cut off.- ':Z-r':s-s i : : . I;; '
Germans
Take Offensive on Northom
Part of East
y ;
1
, ; PKTROGRAD, Russia, - Oct. 3,The Germans yesterday and
todav took the offensive south of Dvinsk, displaying activity on a part
of. the eastern line that has long been comparatively quiet. . They
attacked the Russians near Xova Alexandrovsk. When the Germans
met the Russian defense they were forced back to their original posi
tions.
Greek Ex-Premier
to Hasten Fifjhtinir Vitb Aili::
- 1 ' (AatocUted Prtt Snrlet by Federal Wirli)
PARIS?, Prance, Oct. 3. A despatch from Athens says that a
new political party is being organized in Greece, which will favor
intervention on the side of the Allies. The party is being organized
by Ex-Premier Gounaris, who served a brkf term after Venizelos was
forced out and has long favored entering the war. ; :
Violent Fighting on
PARIS, France, Oct. 3. Violent fighting took place today on the
western front north of Rancourt. ; The French broke dowq and check
ed German attempts to debouch from the St Pierre-Vaast wood and
flank the Allies. -.'A " ' y. J;. : ' ; ' " v ; : .
LONDON', Eng., Oct. 3.British aeroplanes today attacked Ger
man airship sheds in the vicinity of Brussels. Ony British fierop lane
was lost in the raid . . ; ; - - , t
. i;:".:; to quit
:- TOKIO, Janan, Oct 3 News
paper extras, Jed by the NIcM
NIchI SWnbun, announce -that
the Ounia cabinet has decided,
to j-cslx. ...There are- report3
that Okunia ha3 caid he will rec
ommend to the enperor to ap-.
point Viscount Takaa'il Ki3, for
mer minister cf. foreign" i.;"fa;rs,
3 his ucc.:33cr. It 13 aiD re
ported that Marquis. SalonjI nay
4
4-
4-
f ,fce to form a new cai
w, r
acA the water. Ths RuMaalan my
' ;- . wm-
Line; Soon CIioc!icd
Gounaris
Western
REPUBLICANS GATHEH
TONIGHT F0I1 RALLY
y lfj FIFTH DI3TH1C7
With the primary electic-3 near at
hand the Republicans this evcrlr.T
will renew'their cainpaisn a I'.;
rally In the fifth district, tha t::Lt!-.T
place to be Lillha and Ectocl strec' :.
Among the speakers will Le A. Lc:
son, candidate for the drict'-';:
candMates for 'the sc-ate and t; :
firth district Candida tc3 for tie hc-z
A Hawaiian quintet. wi;i fun;Ijh b:c
cial music. :
The second "C?ptir? cf th3 wc":
will be held at 7:C0 -o'c!cci -tc-trr:
evenins at Punahcu r ark", th:.j r:7 t3
1 3 for the voters ct ths Vzzzi :, 11 .
Mnr.ca and The-.;? s-,-::r: ? -On
Thursiay r.:.-':t a r- '1
t3 : :!1 ia tha fifth c: .-: t.
?.:'! 1 , to meetln? in th? f .r; .
- ' ';ht. .
Trym
Frcnt
