THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; to-morrow partly cloudy
with probable rain ; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 67: lowest, 50.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report, on page I.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 33.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1916. cm-m, mm. bV the . a, mimm Ai-damn.
ONE CENT
la Create New Yark,
Jersey City and Newark.
Kltewher.
TWO CKNTd.
RUMANIA RRNDS.
,IUIU"IU"
I Nu A II INI; AKMY
lit i ii 1 in m n iv mi
INTO BULGARIA
Crosses Danube at Rear of
Teutons in the
Dobrudja.
STRIKE SMASHING
BLOW AT MACKEXSEN
Bnssians Attack on Forty
Mile Front, Hammering
Centre and Left.
31 AY FORCE GERMANS
TO RETIRE TO SOUTH
London Experts Look for
Momentous Effect in
All Near East.
Loniov. Oct. 2. A Rumanian army
has eroded the Danube and Invaded
Hulpnrla The crossing was made be
tween Rustchuk nnd Turtukal, In a
region from which Von Mnckensen'
TVtitonlc army In the Dobrudja muy
U- taken In the rear nnd caught be
twrrn two Mref.
Slmultatieiiusly with the crossinc or.
ifcn Tiiiml. thr, mroiur Riisso.Ru-
. . .. ,, ,.
munlan army facltic on Mackensen ,
In the Dobrudja nttneked hi German. 1
nalsarinn n.l Turkish troops along .
I
the whole front of forty miles. The I
llumanians were sucwsful on the
, , . . , . . . ,
centre and rlBht Hank of the Teutons.
Humanlans have captured eleven Aus
tnuti olllcers", 5u0 men and four ma-
chine kuuh In the mountains of north- I
ern TrjiiiKvlvunla. niul the Austrian
a tll-t.i1 .nawtAn
ind derman olllcia. Mntement re-
,.A l,r.. u.lrnU Pitnoinlun tirAtrrnul
iti''i tiviv uuiiiifc nuiiiHiiiiui i'. -.-(s.
,.n i-,!h bnnkti of the Great Kukt-I
m win minus oi im. i.nai ixunti
River, further south. West of I'etroz-
n v the Austrlans stormed Oboroca
ned Oboroca
u , 1,
iome heights
Gates of the
I eluht. They also took some
...nr riruirn nt tho lrrin nnfft
lut.uhe.
llnpr to fru.h .Mnckensen.
B ,t rlngle bold stroke the Rumanians
may alter entirely the complexion of the I
anting In the Near East. The troops
J t , , , , t I
nho crossed tho Danube were probably J
f cont-lderable streuuth, for a small I
force could not accomplish what theyl
.rru7 SiH" or lof-'him
' retreat from the T'obruij.. relinquish-1
tr.al the Russians and rtumanlarm
' oinmence ll.elr Invasion of llulgarla
' the north.
would Immediately affect the
. . .Macedonia and In Transylvania
I .ie Ctrpathlaiis, causing tho with-
il of more Teutonic troop.
THe point where the Kumanlans have
ifed the Danube Is ut the southern
n Jury of the Dobrudja, where the
nuW flows northeast. From Rus
uk, In Uulgaria. to Turtukal. in the
manlun Dobrudja, Is a distance of
n forty miles. Setting foot on the
'hem bank of the Danube anywhere
i i' iqtuce the Itumanlan army Is one
!rrd miles almost directly south of
Miickeusen's line, stretched acroM
.ulildle of the Dobrudja, a few miles
. h of the Cernavoda-Constanxa rail
id. which the Russians and Ru
.mtuus hold,
Meuiice Ilulxar Conimanlcatloa.
Von Miickcnsen Is served by but one
i i i.illroad, running south through
Mc In the Dobrudja, to Varna, the
i' Igarlnn Black Sea port. From Varna
m another railroad roughly west to
.'j't Imk, passing through Chumla. If
i Humanlans cut this railroad they
have greatly hampered th. Bulgar
nunanlcatlons. If they capture Chum
i they will have cut otr Von Macken
From the point where they set
' 't on Bulgarian soil to Chumla 1.
eventy-Mvu miles.
The simultaneous attack by the Rus
im and HumanlaiiH In the Dobrudja
. tl 'ales that the upper millstone was
' med to start as booh as the nether
i i In place. Von Mackemcn Is thrmt-
1 nlth the very same predicament
I . which Von Falkenhayn placed the
liumanlana at HermaniiHtailt a few
n i n ago, his line of retreat blocked
" a miinle bold stroke, and attacked
liinube." The place when- tho
. la us say they crossed Is south of
The II 11 111 ( it Report.
T e Itumanlan stntemint siiyn:
'i the north and northwestern
1'rr.msy Ivanlan) fronts fighting con
t niies In tli) mountains at Ghurglll
' il IcrKlutiel wn captured four ma
' :r.s guns and made prisoners of
ivm oilliers and 500 men.
Southern fnml . Our tioops crossed
fie Diiniibi. bi-twerii Rustchuk and
1 11 'nk.'i'
lr th,. Ijnhrudja we attacked along
' 1 wh..e frmit and repulsed the
'en j on Iiih centre and tight flank.
'' lienniiii stiitement dealing with
TuinHyhiiiiliiii lighting niyh :
Dl both sldeM of the (Ilent Ktlkel
H ir (lie Itiiiiiiiilaiis have won
criund Near and north of Orsova
ii ih,. Danube) successful attacks
I. n been made by our allies. In
llutzeg Mountains enemy attacks
" both sides nf the Strehl (Hztrlgy)
Vslley w,.e repulsed. Oboroca height
.... "I. CAitnMDor. Mass. Oct. 2. Twelve of I 'ime nuinc is now en route 10 1110 unueu mo nnutn nrnn.iiini ..1 me .iBemy. nf tn, hulldlngs on which rerturtlon has
To-n.ghfs otllclal Itumanlan state- ,. . her. ,.i ,h. Ameri. States Is the report brought here by In the ewnt of rain to-morrow the opera ... ,.,,., Krom Fourteenth to
"it arinouneliiK tho cioss ng ..r the "- Bulan" .ervee who have been Cant- Vauschoonbeck of the Belgian will be put on In th clvle auditorium. Kortleth street. Including the old retail
,.U Is born,, out by the Berlin d the Cx 6 O lerri by the 3m" Kllzabeth van Belgle. which ar- It was said thnt .'"'"'' fn centre of tho city and some of the best
einent telegraphed here, which says: B"nd aoVern7nent for consnLmt rlv"1 ,0-,,1,' fro,n "Hrr5'- "" '"'k "ttWr m". ,i'r,'.rt'" L of the present shopping district, there
- 4'., of Bucharest enemy troi.jw have' n'"r'' .?.er.?" Inning o he E Cl,m- Vauschoonbeck dretared one of penses and a deficit of $2,500 would go h w,n a recession of about 116,000.-
i- U 11 fontlng on the right bank f."'raery slnie the beginning of the u- (he ,,ubnl.irlm.s .., captured by the to charity. n ,o
Continued on TAIrd Tag.
wuy Sunday's work
HERE BEGINS IN APRIL
i
Evangelist to Give More Than
Two Months to Saving
of New York.
Billy Sunday will open hi. campaign
here next April, It wa. announced ye.
terday by the local committee In charge.
The evangelist wilt work through Aplt
and May Into June In an auditorium
iullt espeel
ally for him. Two sites arc
ildered for a tabernacle to
"f0" .. . ..
unday. Billy's oldest son; will
1 being consld
hold 20,000
Oeorgc Sunday-
begin hi. work of preparation for the
campaign within a few days. This In
cludes establishing, as far as It may be
found to tie possible, a prayer meeting
in each
city.
be under
three
held once
house
Thousand
It. .,,i,.j i, i,.... i, nr.
ie organized Into committees, visitors,
slncers. ushers In the tabernacle and
each church will be expected to supply
Its quota or worker.
WINS LONE BATTLE
residence block In the entire '"" .,, ,, , Th. n.l e.f.ts value hir gone bacK to
Each of thee prayer meetings will art building In China, which mny In- ,, ., ... '.. ... ,,,.! ... ...... ..... nrtn the
supervls -n of a committee of vwlve the .pending of 1100.000.000 or ,,i ,, . ... , ...1" ' " .. . ... . ... in
residents of block, and will be ,,1P , . ... ... . " " V. W I last year uiti aespiie are., .........
or twice a .veek. movlnR from ,' 7 " ..J,',","" C" c..- . J value. In other borough, th. tot., a.-
to house. ''''"..auonai torpoMiioii. m? """-: Vw.t'.. VI " a t. nf cltv wltl show a de-
t of men and women mut ems-Careyllallway and Canal Company V' "".."V ' ' . i... ,...r-. nuret
WITH 22 GERMANS':;:
Canadian Kills or Wounds 21
......Vn.M
lite Utner rrlSOner. I
. . . .
Canadian corporal In France who single
hamLit ilinrwa a mriv of (wentv.two
Germane advancing to an attack and
inert or wounaea an or mem except one.
i,. r i. r.i.i. ii,.
ihiii . a..
I inntati rM t fail fnlav.
a r((,ult of further severe fighting
the Canadian, have captured several lm-
I . . n l.i. .... .A.
portant German position, and have ad-
.Mfti thelr own ne upon a trnt
of nearly two mile, to a maximum depth
of.0 rr""" LJL5?'-
Our artillery support has been mag-
nlncent and by sheer weight of metal I
our gunner, have made It humanly pes- ,
slble for the Infantry to come Into close
, , . Ttm, , ,me
ur '.luiurL'ti nip L'uiire Eim.cin. I
MIn the course of all this desperata
fighting there have been Innumerable in-
voted nctlont. but the ca of a corpora!
of an Eastern Ontario battalion la orw
U "' tiUUUI Willi! J "J.r. ICVUrUfU.
Thf baltallon had captured a line of
rlmm ...t--1... n ai..
vici .it... ii tziivnt- rt iirii u y.i i j it !!;" - - V
enemy, consisting of two officers and i "'an a year will elapse luforc the lines
tvf men jgan a counter-attack. , can be located and eMlmates of the cost
.Tnc corporai advanced alone agaln: prepared. Until this preliminary work
the whole party, emptied his revolver, has been donv It wilt e Imposslhle t"
the whole party, emptied his revolver,
picked up first on- and then anoUier
u.rman rlfle ghoot!n, lne two mrj
nnd fifteen of the men. One of tn.j I
ollicers attacked him with a bavont
land nlerccd him In the let- brio- th-1
b "je corporal shot him dead
ebcape. The corporal shot four of them
and made the fifth a prisoner. Althougn
wounded In two places he remained In
the trenches until his hattallon was re-
lleved."
CT DRIVE FOR TRIESTE.
London Kxiirrt. Note Heavr Bom.
bardmenl of Aa.trlan Caraa Line.
Lo.srxiv, 'let. 2. A new Italian offens
ive on the Carso plateau, alined at Tri
este, is foreshadowed by the announce
ment In to-tlay'a otllclal Austrian state
ment, telegraphed here, that the Italian
artillery is bombarding heavily the Aus
trlan lines from Monfalcone to the Wlp
pach as If In preparation for Infantry at
tacks. To-day's Italian statement tells of a
minor success In the Trentlno and men
tions the heavy fire on the Carso. It
says :
In the Ledro Valley (Trentlno) In
fantry skirmishes took place, In th.
course of which our advanced posts
drove off the enemy with loss. In the
Astlce Valley enemy artillery concen
trated its tire on the railway near
Beghe without Interrupting tralllc.
Along the remainder of the front
there were only artillery actions, the
majority on the Carso sector.
OEN. VON HTNDENBURG IS 69.
I'reaa Acclaim. Him as ae Oreateat
German of the Ae.
BcnuN, via London, Oct. 2. Field
Marshal von Hlndenburg, chief of the
General Staff, is celebrating to-day hi.
sixty-ninth birthday at headquarter, on
the eastern front.
Th. Berlin newspapers all publish
article, exalting him as the greatest Ger
man of tho ago and expressing the
fullest confidence In his ability to lead
the German armies to victory.
WAR CROSS FOR 12 "H" MEN.
Harvard -Men Gain French Medal la
Ambnlanre Service.
mpean war were atudenta or alumni of
Harvard University.
Thl. record appears In statistics com
piled here to-day.
BLACKMAIL SUSPECT FLEES.
nriimr Irn 'In. Chief Defendant,
Forfeit. "(J, 0(10 Rail to IT. S. ,
George Irwin, one of the chief defend
ant, tn the Government's prosecution of
the so-culled Mann act blackmail syndi
cate, has disappeared,
Thl became known yesterday when
Irwin failed to nppear before Judge
Sheppard In the Fnlted States District
Court to plead to the indictment charg
ing him and others with having posed as
Deiiartmrnt of Justice agents In a con
spiracy to extort money from Mrs, Be--Ina
A Kllpper, a buyer for a I'hlladel
phla department store, who was lured to
a hotel In this city by Frank Crocker,
another member of the gang.
On motion of Assistant United States
Attorney John C. Knox JuiTge Bheppard
ordered the forfeiture of the ID.Oon ball
bond ch :n by Irwin when he wa. ar
resttd re last .prlng.
AMERICANS TO RIIILD
niTTmIun IM miIMI
-UULWAI&IH MUM
-
Contract Which May Involve,
9100,000,000 Signed by
the Republic.
. . .
1,100 MILES IX SYSTEM!
.
1
LinPR ill Bp Constructed Oil
rercClltagO Basis 1).V
Issuing Bonds
nn.i ., rui n . . ...
ami tho Chinese Government. Conrtruc-
,in ,. . , h ,...
,.,., ,
ornment bonds to be Issued through the
American International Corporation.
ltallrnud lines to be eonstructed have
not been decldrd on. lion ever, but will
be located by an American chief en-
Kltieer to bo appointed by the Chinese
owrnment on the recommendation of
American International Corporation.
tlon of 1,100 miles of railroad, hlch
" '"l!.1 ,he ",r" pn
. ,-.. 1.1-,..
The contract mentions certain points
betmeen which the Chinese fSovernment
desires to have the lines constructed, but
li'immci". ijuwrrr, tnai u uer uncoil"
CAllun ln rnnstrtiff on of jin nr fltfip
line. Is deemed Inadvisable " the (5ov-
ernment and the corporation i-hall set
together nd agree upan other lines to
make up the total mileage agreed upon,
nepreentatlves of the American In-
,..,.,ti 1 ,....!.. ..I.
Hhat they believed that this will bo the
first time tbat railroads have ever been
built under contract In China. There
.J. ..... .
"'Ulilij. wic iumi in.ruKr ithik; pi
il.OOH miles, nnd It Is wild th! thev are
conducted on a profitable basis.
The American International Corpora
I
S
tlon bus already advanced ISnn.OOn to
the Chinese (!overnmiit to be utilized
i I .V. "'' ,".V...'"V' " i" "T"
, ,
.,., 'a th.Vnmnrnit.m hn. ner.ni
nmem. tor
such construction, and arrange
. . .
th,. riNvmrv fln.nirinir Ihrntivh n I.hsiih
ti llnt.rnm.nl ..nrlllM will It. I
worked out.
. . -
Will Avoid I.terrrrrnre.
A chief engineer will probubly be ap-
" ' '
pointed at unw to iiroercd to China with
.nil lltav If i tM t Ini.'l t fil til at TtlOrt
has been donv it win e tmposstnie m
'tn, definitely either the ch iracter or
the amount of the M-curltlrs to Ik is.iic.l.
or the tenns or condition-of their Issue
1 ne presnii mnrm i- u "";
"f negotiations c.irrle.l on l.y i
K.
Carry on brhnlf oPSlem. A Carey, rail
road contractors of St. I'aul. On May
IT of this ear Mr. Carey signed a pr
llmlnary agreement with the 'lilnese
Government for the constructlun of road
In that country, provision being mart
r the financing of such constrnctlon of
" ;'.':; 7V;.:.
' '"
ernmeni strrurmr!, w tir .uiit '" " i
grtssed
Mr. Carey later submitted this con-
I tract to the American International Cor-
noratlon. About the same time pre
(Irani! Canal were concluded, nnd the
American International Corpoiatlon. to
gether with Slems & Carry organized
the Hlems-Cnrey Hallway anu t:anai
Company, which Is Jointly controlled, to
undertake the construction of railroads
and the dredging of the Grand Canal.
Final agreements for the dredging of
the canal ar. now under negotiation.
APHASIA VICTIM FROM N. Y.
Hospital Authorities In Baltls
Conceal III. Identity.
Baltimore, Oct. 2. Acting under in-
structlons from prominent persons In
New York city whose nanus ure un-
known even to the local police, the au-
thorltlea nt the Mercy Hospital nre now
making every effort to conceal the
Identity of the aphasia victim who was
found Ivlnc In a dazed condition In
I Mi, tint V.rnnu stnlinre nn WeJnesd.'i v
afternoon last, and who has since re-
a .,..,.... . ... ... -..II. salt! the slcnal had been wrnniriv set and .
ver.led himself to the physician, at tho , financial backer of Mayor Thompson's
Institution. campaign, and William II. I.uthardt,
That the "man of mystery," so called secretary to Chief Ilealey, were con
by the police, has been Identified as a necte4 with the Installation of slot ma
business man of New Tork city was the i chines.
Information obtained to-day from an
authentlo source. Th. hospital an- . . .
thorltles refused absolutely to give out 1 LLOYD S IN OPERA FOR A NIGHT.
any Information concerning the Identity
of the man other than to say "he Is will Produce "Aid" at !aa Fran
neither prominent nor wealthy." ,
rlsco to Regain f-fl.OOO.
San Francisco, Oct. 2. Lloyd's of
THREE BREMENS, SAYS SKIPPER London will enter the operatic Held to-
morrow for "one night only" nnd will
Two submarine raptured. Third stage an open air production of "Alda"
. In nn effort to regain 125.000 paid as In-
on way to America. ' surnnce against rain for tho production
Galveston, Tex., Oct. 2. That two of tho opera which was to have been
German meichant submarines naniod given here Saturday for charity.
Bremen have fallen Into tho hands of the Announcement to this effect was made
Kntente Allies nnd a third bearing the
British and the oilier by thn French. Ho
said ho learned this from good author
ity In France, but he declined to name
the port to which the captured ships
were taken.
PINCKNEY HEIRESS FIGHTS FEE.
Mr.. J. AV. 51, C, Lawrence fines to
Set Aside I.awer' .tgrrrnrnt,
Mrs. Julia Watt Morris Curtis Law
rence, who claimed one-third of the resld
nary estate of Mary G. I'lnckiiey, who
died In 1 90S, leaving an estate nf tT,000.
(Kid, yesterday filed u suit to set aside a
fee agiei-nieni nnn nanieii hh iierenoaut
Wllllard N. Baylla. George I', Hanbont
1 and Frederick II. Sanborn
k II. Sanborn, comnrlslna
tho law llrm
1 of Baylls & Sanborn, and
iienrv Wnlliiiaii. Ileiilamlii F. Wnllinnn
and Achilles F. Kohn. composing, the law
firm of Wollman At Wollman.
Tho agreement, Bhe says, provided that
she was to pay Baylls & Sanborn 80 per
cent, of the principal she should get and
one-third of nil payment, of Interest for
three year, from the date nf the success
ful outcome of th litigation.
L" shuttle train in
CRA$H,INJURES TWENTY
Huns Switch, Hits Wrecking
Outfit Many Cut and
Shocked.
The shuttle train connecting the Third
avenue elevated at 12th street with the
avenue eievatea at iznui .treet wnn tne i
New York. New Haven and Hartford ,
Ilallroad station at t'ort Morris ran Into
an open switch last night at U2d etreel i
hihI Willi avenue, ramming an electric
wrecking train, throwing all tho passen- ,
ers out of their scats. About twenty 1
were Injured, one probably fatally.!
Many of the othera suffered only from
-hock and from cuts caused by the flying
J lass.
Caspar Olsen. niotorman of the train,
'" "u " w inuuRiii iir wuuiu me
rinlv nn. mi,.r n.nun in Hi. rnnh lliv-
",'1,i.'.:511 prr,"Jr",2 "fl." V-S?.. .
V VZ. U. ,.k T hrhosnUal. '
hland, was taken to the hospital
CHAMORRO ELECTED
HEAD OF NICARAGUA
Wilson's Choice for President
Wins: Opponents Fenred
to Vote.
Washington. Oct. 2. Emlllano Ch
lorro, President Wilson's choice foi
... .i. -
morro- 1 r"""nt " ",on " wcnD'cr,
President of NMcaraaua. will be declared
elected to-night after a light vote, char-
ncterlzrd by fear of the supporter, of
. ,. ' " " . ' nrtl(,,,, , .mroach
Irtas. the Liberal candidate, to approacn
the polls. This 13 me omciai imorma-ion
which has reached diplomatic circle, and
, (.onflm,,,! n desp.tch from Rear
Admiral Cawrton to tli. Navy Depart
- , fcu. ,,
'"", ....
nrotested th election
Prom Information wnicn lias reacnea
heie It appear, that the supporter, of
Irlas were led to believe that the Amer-
lean warships In Nloaraguan water, and
the American plan of j feguardln, the
foils meint forbidding them to vote.
7hfv. r.oM,h.?1 ,h?
. Tote-ts from Irlas and from Ce
Central
. ------ ...
Ame.i.ni sources against what Is
termed a sham expression of popular
choice are enlivening the situation, but
thpre aimears to be no general disorder.
I'll mn.t rilrf't ttrrnlint rtf (h.
"V. - .. t
Admiral t'aperton himself. 'Vhamorro
tf iiiiiui 3 t irttn'ii ttniit. iiviii i.e.
.-11IHM. t.r.iv.. ii.ic-v. ...... www
will be declared elected to-night, the I
maLt.rtj. MttitAsI
" "
"Many misleading statements are be-,
ing made." the Admiral says. "Our po-
ltlon that the election should be hon-
,n- Bnd openly con.lucted and the ac -
fhiy Bnd openly con.lucted and the ac -
tlon of th0M who ,r, refr3nng from
votln(r , unjustlfl.ible. No general dl.-
turbance Is announced."
Zelaya Kill. Foar.
Masaova. Nicaragua. Oct. J. in a
fight yesterday during the election. Sal-I
vmlor V-Uya. a nephew of former Tresl-
dent Zelaya. attacked a group of Con-
MASAOfA. Nicaragua. Oct. J. In a
.ervntlve.. .hnntln unit kllllnr four of
r four or
seriously
ere give,
av nmu-'
them. Zelaya himself was
wounded. The four victim, w
oubllc mllltarv funeral, to-day. thou
... , ......
P.II1US ut utJIli-ri . .it. rn UI..J wnut lit. ,
the bodies to the gT.lves.
Oen. Chamorro has been for year,
one of the active leader, of the Con
eerRtle party. For the last three years
he has been Ntcaraguan Minister to
Washington. Kxcept for the fighting IrtJ
Managua the flection generally was i
ijui.-t. .mi.-.
HITS AT CHICAGO MAYOR
"late Gambling Raid on
Clab
Thompson Oner Headed.
Chicaoo, Oct. 2. Detectives under
direction of State's Attorney Horne.
rr who Is Investigating slot machine In t0 jsnos.ooo. But. as the Tax De
Chicago, to-day raided the Sportsmen', partm.nt explains, the Indicated gain Is
i-iuii 'i fluent., ut niut.H jjwi .,ii-
lam II. Thompson formerly was preel-
ilent, seized all records and summoned
the secretary and other attaches to ap-
pear befure the Grand .lury.
Assistant State's Attorney Bergcr
said that the raid followed Investlga-
tlnus uhlch Indicated that otllciuls of
the rlub. Including Chief of Police
PhnrleA f Tle.-ilev. J-jme A. Pucli. I
president of the club and reputed
to-day upon receipt of cable advices from
JUSTICE R. T. LYNCH RESIGNS.
Throws t'p atS.000 Position to He
roine a Receiver.
City Court Justice Illchard T. Lynch
relgned suddenly on Saturday and lm
mediately sturted West to serve as re
ceiver for a railroad In Ohio, Because
of the suddenness of his action ono of the
parts of the City Court hud to be kept
cl.)ed yesterday.
Chlif Justice O I'wyer said that' the
! n,r(.t Intimation ho hud of Justice Lynch's
.h.rlalon was conta lied n a elter re.
celved last Saturday, In which Jutlce
. 1 v (1.-I1 wf.Ii! be X.
had alieady leslgned to
'Gov Whitman. Ills salary heie nan I2..
1 ruin .1 ne ami Id. lenn would not ii
rxnlied until December 31, I'JIT It Is un-
derstood that his compensation an re
reiver will be considerably more and his
tenure considerably longer,
An It I. too lat. to hold u primary elec.
tlon for a eucressor, Oov. Whllmwi will
appoint a new Justlcu to nit for 11 year
and three month..
CITY'S REALJESTATE
SLUMPS $50,000,000
Tax Bolli Show Recession for
the First Tiraein New
York's History.
MAY NOT ADVANCE RATE
-
'Of fielnl
From
Millionaires" Prop
400 to 13 Hetty
flrecn Estate Leads.
p neo recession irum - - -
. ... .iinnM. have
n'-" correction, and allowances
- .
It will be the first time In th. hUtorr
of Greater New Tork that such a thing
has occurred that the Tax Department
has failed to find lncreaed value with
each succeeding year. Thl. I. the big
feature of th. assessment rolls for 1M7
fixing the amounts on which taxes are
to be paid. Book, were opened at the
Municipal Building yesterday.
Personal property aaaesementa an
nounced at th ame time Indicate that
Mayor Mltchel I. converted to th. Tax
Department, theorr that It Is Impossi
ble to collect taxe on th value of th.
personal belonging, of most retrld.nU of
the dir. for In.teed of ther being
2.625 nam. on th. tentative rolls, as
there were la.t year, there are not more
than 40.000. and th. total of sment.
instead of being $1,701,106,090. a Itwa
last year, will be nearer $400.00,000.
Last year the Tax Department, und.r
a plan worked out In the Mayor", offlce.
charged more than 500 perona with
having pertwnal properly worth tl.000.
P00 or mor. each. Of the number about
ten remained for final taxing. nd"'
are on tne list again nu j .
the personal property a.seatnnent total
- - ,;.lm.t.d bu. at the
1 be can only be
T",Pr, J', 'off? , 'th. .t
nuum
losses In realty values.
Hetty Ortea't C.tt.
. ....m.ni nf astates which are
grouped with personal property valua-
" , - . tl.ttv ilnMit ii nHniin win auoru .11 mc v-uiii- 1
tlons make It appear that J''"l,,n painant. .n opportunity of presenting
left a larger estate than did eltner J. i.(hfr cha They will be hastened.
Morgan or Anthony N. b?:. ih. ninfn.n.Mr.i ..id h.i f ih.
rtrr.n's nrooerty has a tentative
1. .
......I fulii. nf t?0.000.
" .h. flrure. for th.
ivtf .B ..... .....
Morgan estate and U.000,000 gre.ter
,MI'IIM i . .
than the. HXfi.dy eitate. It waa eatlmated
....Unli Vilt llttl of th QfeCn MMM
jmivi u
ment was expected to remain on me
books to be taxed.
Some hope of keeping tn totl wu.
of all taxable property at nearly last
of all taxable property ai nr.ny
year', level was expressed by represent-
atlv.-s of the Btat. Tax rtoard. wno said
that they expect to add $..0,000,000 to
the value of special franchises, although
nearly as larse an amount was added to
.such properties wi rr.
.sucn i..,,.a hv
According to a state me nt 1 s.ued b
nJLJ Ufledf The
rMtntenl. Ih. c IV wUl b. MtUHcd If the
i --.-
erty shows a decline of not mora than
the' 150,000,000. which at least will be
made up In part by fecial franchise In-
total ol real ei '" .
creases
On the bast of the figure, announced
so far the city', borrowing power will t
reduced by about $5,000,000. Tnat tnere
will not be a material increase in . ,
eliv nal.l last Tear.
M.nhsttan'a showing from a real es-
I tate standpoint Is not an encouraging
' one for property owner., for In prac
tieattv everv section such decrease In
vaiur have been recorded that th. Island
shows a total losa of l..J&J,7Z&.
All other boroughs show substantial
gains, which leave the city witn a ten
tatlve Increase In all borough, amount
n-iv tentative ano in tne usuaj aujusi-
m,nt,, allowances and cancellations will
t,e r,,tuced 10 that It will be turned from
a gain inio a nv ui .uui
000.000.
On last year's tentative assessment
Manhittnn suffered a loss of l8,J60,o00,
which reduced the total gain of the rest
of the city from lO,44S,O00 to IT2.0SS.
mill. Of this u mount S40.fOO.OO0 finally
( wn rftainc,t on th. roll. Building con-
strucllon mad. last year's gain possible,
but this year there ha. been so little
building, especially In Manhattan, that
the Tax Department hold, no hop. of
duplicating laat year", performance.
Two Brlsht "eetlaas.
In Manhattan only two sections
rhowed Increa.ed real estate values.
In others, like the old wholesale district
on either side of Broadway from Worth
to Fourteenth street, 150,000,000 has
been cut from last year's values In
spite of henvy cuts during the last live
years. As assessed to-uay mucn or mat
property Is vnlued at from 25 to 30 er
rent of prices paid when that section
was the heart of New Tork'. great
wholesale trade. In th. section below
Worth street, Including the financial
district, a recession of 13,000,000 Is In
dicated, nnd the Stock Exchange Is one
AdO.
In the section embracing the Grand
Central station real estate values
show advniiees like thos of former
years. Here, In the district from Fortieth
'to Ninety-slxlh street, there Is an ad
vance recorded of about 120,000,000.
But not all property In this section
shows Improvement. In fact the better
ment Is limited to th. new apartment
district on Park avenue, north of the
station, and to the short distance on
Forty-second street, between Fifth ave
nue and the station.
nrTnettlne many of these rains, practi
cally all the larger und older residences
m and near Firm avenue, tne nnest In
all the city, have linen marked down by
nmiy thousands, of dollars.
IMItslmrg ana uoiuneias millionaires
do not havo I" buy palatial homes on
Fifth avenue any longer .is u fiist step
to entering New ork society, the Tax
lei.utii.ciit says, ana tne result is thai
l'lftli avenue mansions ure put In the
class with white elephants. They hold
the theory that since former Gov. Mor
ton, ex -Senator Root, several of th.
Vnnderhllts and a lot more of people
Continued on SlatA Page.
tax rate Is the opinion Ol cuy auin.nm. on w(h a
who point out that the budget this year thf (
IU contain no sucn nnn e ,, m brother.
9T5.000 of direct State tax which the . " f,
780,000 GET NO ILK IN CITY TO-DAY;
BIG FIRMS HAYE 60 PER GENT. OF NEEDS;
SITUATION WORSE; CRISIS FEARED SOON
STATE WILL PROBE
MILK SITUATION i
Referee to Investigate Clmrges
of Big Dealers and
Farmers Too.
Amxr, Oct. 1 Alt' Investigation of
i the milk situation In New York was or
line miiK Niu on in .ew i otk was or,.ire arresien lor inc aimi nrr u
. . . . ... ..
dered to-day by Attomey.Qeneral Wood-1 farmer Jury will convict them.
nr. following complaint, not only by
the milk dealer, but farmers as well
that conspiracies In restraint of trade
exist. The Attorney-Oeneral designated
Deputy Attormy-Geneml Merton K.
Lewi., who wa. counsel to the Thomp
son legislative Investigating committee.
to conduct the Investigation. Application
for the appointment of a referee to take
testimony will be made to the court, at
once.
Attorney-Oeneral Woodbury said :
"In view of th. critical situation ex
isting In New Tork city It Is th. purpose
of thl. office to mak. a thorough Investi
gation to determine the real cause, of
the milk crisis nad apply a remedy. Com
plaints have been mad. against th. milk
dealers In the city and likewise several
of the milk dealer, hare mad. complaints
against th. Dairymen. League. Th. In
vestigation I. designated to disclose th.
truth of these complaint, and to prevent
any unlawful act by which th. welfare
of tb. peopl of th gre4r city would
be endangsred.
"Th Attomey-Oenaral'. offlce will ap
ply to th court without delay for the
appointment of a refer to take testi
mony. Thl. referee will b abov. criti
cism and abov partisanship."
Th. Investigation will be conducted
under th so-called Donnelly anti-trust
act. th provisions of which have been
utilized both by the mtlk dealer, and the
milk producer, as th. bail, of charges
that th. "oth.r .Id." I. conspiring In re-
stralnt of the milk trade. The penalty
provided by this law Is 15,010 fin. for a
corporation and 18.000 and one year In
prison or both for a person adjudged
guilty.
n-t.. t. it. -mm . ... .... I
gravity of the altuatlon a. Indicated by
... .........a .,iin .,in.
Mie ui4f-raiirq t-iiiie vii ui dii i j-
ments of milk during tb last few day,
i
KOTOS KILL- EUUkHS BOY.
Tkrr-Yrr-ai- Girl'. Am Cat O
by Brewer' Wsgss,
Ch.rle. Derbyshire. 14 years old. an
. rr. rtrt knv tf K?11 Rltrfh avemiA 1tr,t.tW.
lyn. was run over nnd killed at Third
ough!"latn night by a'n amom'oblle truck dairymen of OneUla county are memt-r ' ma,!,, against both the producer ntul tho
driven br Oeorg. Curtis of 160 Orove of ,n" Hairy nun league, according to i ,, trlbuti r. and tho scope of tho lniUiy
street. The driver was not arrested. ' a" otllclal. In this county fanners haw I !! enibrace the upcr.itlona of bolli.
The reserve of th. Fo-.:rt1 avenue police maKinc ine.r m m nto muter nnu
station were called out to h.ndlo the , '"' . cheese factories have wrung up
crowd that collected. i overnight In many places, and fiimers
Th. t.ft f ttrMt lisscnecl. sh" running them on the cooperative
year, old, of 2414 IJeaumont avenue, The
Bronx, wa. cut off when she was run
over by an electric brewery wagon In
. . -of nr hom.
An aulon,obi, owned and driven by
tfnr,. Oswald wa. wrecked by a colli-
Long Island Railroad train
iv.nue cro.slng. and Oswald
Frederick, thrown out
HE COULDN'T OUTRUN THE ERIE.hlg motor trucks on the J.ib manned by
strike breakers and guarded bv df put.v
(..,.,. Draaard Many Block sheriffs. At the Mahopao station they
and Saflfcra Dislocated Ilia.
r V.il Vnrk eommuter wis lust
&Z?tTA. T Kris'
train to-day. j
"I'll get It If I hav. to break "''
neck." '-MScarpa as he raced after ,..:!
W. .r.hlfj 11,. r.U
no..,. .......
tr.e rear oi me iu.i T.r. ie nciu wu ,.0
the train gathered speed, every now and
then bumping the ties. At Pennington
avenue, 1'ass.ilc, Scarpa, rxhau-tid, Imt
his grip and fell to the roadbed, lie was
taken to St. Mary's Hospital with a dis
located hip and many laceration, and
contusions, but his neck 1. sound.
MASS. FIXES WOMEN'S WAGE.
8.Tfi Bet for Adalt Worker la
Clt alas Factories.
Boston, Oct. 2. The wage scale for
femnle employees In women's clothing
factories In this State, which was rec
ommended by the Women's Clothing
Wage Board. Iibh been approved by th
Massachusetts Minimum Wage Commis
sion, according to an announcement to-
night.
The new scale, which goes Into effect
February 1, 1917, provides $8 T5 for ex
perlencid adult workers, JT for Inexpo
rlenced adult workers and fl for work
ers under 1 year, of age.
RUNAWAYS STARVED OUT.
Tito Providence Bo . Live Fort
nlitht on $7. Then Surrender,
Two week. In New York, spending
In fourteen days and sleeping at night In which Iofs than n carload left there. The
parks, was enough for John Phillips and Sheffield F.irms-Slawsnn-Decker Corn
John Mnrgone, each 15 years nld, ol .,,,nv was iiuabte to fultll Its contract to
l'rovldence. R, I
They visited the Kllzabeth street po
lice siatlon yesterday and asked for
something to eat, as their money wis all
gone, They were taken to the Children's
Court and word sent to their parents,
HERE'S CHAMPION PUMPKIN.
Wrlwhs riOO Ponnds, It Fret Aronnd
Grown lu layrllle.
Flno ' Thanksgiving will soon be
here and the "largest pumpkin lu the
'world" we quote tho proud proprietor
! a out at Hayvllle all runly to be turned
into pinterlal tor pic:
The agricultural editor had left the
1 ntlice fnv the night audit was Impossible
! 10 wnfv 1 ie owner s boasl that tt was a
. world !atci-,
It weigh 500 pounds.
nnd Squlie llugene II Cocheu. retired
police lieutenant of Brooklyn, will pay
1100 to any one who produces a pumpkin
of equal sire. This Uiamplon pumpkin
Is described as nine feet around and
three feet thick, nnd fairly large In th.
wal.
MILK THROWN AWAY
AS FARMERS RIOT
Sellers to Big Companies Beat-
en. One of Them Fatally,
in Dutchess.
Secure In their knowledge that If they
are arrested for the damage they do no
the
up-Htate members of the Dalryr,
Dairymen's
League continued their depredations
yesterday.
Thousands of gallons of milk secured
by th. big milk companies for distri
bution In New York was seised by
groups of farmers long before It reached
the railroad and dumped. In many In
stances there were hand to hand com
bats between th. dairymen and em
ployees of the companies, varying In In
tensity In proportion to th. number of
guards the companies had on the
wagons. Striking farmer, raided their
neighbors who wished to sell their mltk
at what the Dairymen's League believes
Is lower than a fair price.
The most serious clash occurred In
Dutchess county, wnere one dairyman,
Irving I'. Walte of Wlnpdale, was set
upon by fifteen farmers' while he was
carting a load of milk to the Borden
company's station. Walt, put up a
stiff fight, which enraged the other., and
they beat him so badly that he Is ex
pected to dir. He recognized most of
his assailants, most of whom ar. well
to do farmers, and warrants have been
Issued for their arrest.
Depatr Tie to a Tree.
One farmer carrtea a deputy sheriff
on his wagon to protect him. The str k-
Ing dairymen set upon them both, tle.1
the deputy to a tree and allowed him to
watch them as they poured out the cans
of milk. len those farmers who are not
members of the Dairymen's league are
refusing, most of them, to sell to the
ntltk nAmn.tnl.l Th.v ar mlVInt hilt 1 ff
- - - -
or cheese on their own machines.
Dutchess county normally ships thirty
carloads of milk a day to New Tork. To-
day thirteen cans neie sent. ,
Fifteen thousand cow. in oneiaa
- - " .
county ami 4H.000 cows In Herkimer.
Lewis, Madison, Otsego and adjacent I
counties .ltd not do a tap of work for the I
city esterday. Members of th Dairy-
mtJ'," Af "'"VY' ,im.n" hi, ,.
All the roads leadlns to the milk ta-
tlor.e w-re picketed earl this mornliK
and absolute holdup. ore frequent. At
Caesvllle and West Wlnfleld groups of
.1 .l M.H .....1 9 . h . I,.!!..!. lllltl.'
n ,he, 'ut v.n"' .."(,
Ued the milk nnd
plan.
Rniply fan. Sent West.
Ttie Sheffield Farm-SUson-De.ker
Company hastily leathered hundreds of
Its milk cans In Cattaraugus nunty yee.
. terday nnd shipped them, empty, to
1 ClevelTinl. which Indicates tint the com -
.'any plans to i.rnw us miiK irom p.ums
I beyond the Intluence f the Dairymen's
League.
In Putimm cnuntv ltorden's nut two
I farmers, who seized the mtlk and dumped
I It bforc the- trucks could be loaded.
, ' 'Is "ere sent inrougii wie county
! !J r-aienlnK tlu.se who refused ,o Join
Tickets were sent through the county
. -.. . ' , ' hlV day' " ,ut i ly of
' f.'u r .' T
' "'"! I'OUIIIJ
feted to
ship 500 cans of ml'.k to New-
York to be given tn the poor, but the
pasteurization regulations prevtntid
th s, Thirteen cans nf milk were all that
t ie milk train on the Harlem division of
the New Ynrlt Cent'il collected lust
night l.itwoeit l'awllng and White
riulns.
Follow Hordrn Wagon.
In Tompkins county eight autoumblte
luads of farmers rushed over the milk
routes this morning Just ahead of the
Borden collection wagons. Whenever
they found milk set out for the Borden
wagons they dumped It. If. the producer
declined to take his milk hack Into the
house and agree to refuse to sell to the
company until price, are raised to whnt
the Dairymen's League consider n
proper level. Several wagons In this
county were stopped en mule to the sta
tion and their milk dumped, but little
violence was tepotted. Sheriff Maekey
was summoned by the Borden manager
nt Dryden, who said that many farmers
In his Nlclnlty 'inteil to ?-1 1 1 1 milk, but
were afraid to. The Sheriff secured a list
of tho men who had threatened these
men, and expects to take drastic action
to-day
At Goshen the strlkeis subscribed
K.uOA to build a iwpei'atlw- creamery.
No milk left theie for New Vork. At
Mldilletnwn pickets scmncil tho country
on errands of persuasion, as a result of
supply thiny-i" inns it mint 10 1110
state' HoHiiltal In Mlddlutnwn. Fewer
than fifty cans of milk weie shipped to
New York from Svr;uue, I'tlca re-
none,! that 5 oer cent, nf the usual sup.
ply had Iftfl there, while Orwego county
reports that shipments were, only slightly
less thnn usual.
Terser Milk Held Bark.
All over Sussex and Warren counties,
New Jersey, farmers held back milk yes
tet'day.
As Borton Rude, a farmer of Lafayette
township, was taking live c.-uih of milk
to a dairy yesteraay farmers nn picKet
duly yanked him off his wagon and
spilled his milk,
ltuls Klzolowskl lost twenty-live cans
of milk destined fur the Newark Milk
and Cream Company b. he was taking
them to u creamery In the same town
ship. In Andover township farmet.
dumped their milk In springs.
Loul. M. Harden, director of the
Dairymen'. League In Fredon township,
.aid no milk will b. waited as the farm
er, ar turning It Into butter and cheese.
Dr. Emerson Refuses to
Lift Pasteuriza
tion Ban.
REJECTS 200 CANS NOT
UP TO STANDARD
Families With Babies and
Hospitals First
Served.
DEALERS GIVE DILLON
A SEVERE PANNING
Near Fist Fipht "When He
Calls One "Liar"
State Probe On.
The farmers' grip on the milk situa
tion wna tightened yesterday In all
sections where the word of tho Dairy
men's League Roes. Only 70 per cent,
of the clty'a dally supply of C. 500,000
quart, was received during tho day.
This means there was a shortage of
750.000 quart, which wna withheld at
the source of production.
To-day's curtailment. It Is believed,
will h i?rfjitp tlinn flint, rlnnnltn tlin
. . . . rtutHimterH thnt
Promises of the Mr- distributers thnt
they expected to niHke nt least 60
crM of M deliveries. It wan
, , ....... ., , ,
admitted by nil that the outlook for
tne consumer In the next dny or two
l.rt'. hrfphl
Isn t bright.
As far as the babies. Invjill.ls at
. ., .,, , , ..... ....
...... .j ' ..' ' ..
cunccriiru Jimnun) mere ivarn i
much distress, for rctnllera took ospe
, ,.
cal l,!lns rrnnBe deliveries ho the;
licy
would not bo without milk. Some
were miss.d. but comparutlwly few.
'
Attorney-tleneral Woodbury ordeied
i an lnvestl;tlon yesterday under the
ponn(.v act to determine tne real raiiM
'
'
lltnmr 1'nt on Dillon,
The distributers arc almost a unit in
J declaring that blame for present '.m-
dltlone lies at the door of the pulin er
I and Commissioner Dillon of the Stnto
i li.-tiartnu nt of Foods, and Market x. Titrv
cie particularly tituMinpllnuntary in
. thotr comments about tho Cjiimussl.ii.cr
. tt.,te olllcer. In aiding th' l.irmei
' ln xMr bnliHip nf the milk supply
, lillmii:i: a p. lne "f tlii't- in IK
j, ai.-rs, n pvesi iitimt all the Imp ' -
,-,.iim in tne c.tv, at the ollho 't Ii
, llnve'.i Knii i-.'ii I'nminissi ir.cr n-
' n.,iti. , i ,l..i .tM ,-iitli.tt,..l
1 ar0utul Mr Dillon ami nccu d lini 'f
i nnn). ti,iu, om diitlt: the veil.il
mmirjmnt the venernble Comm.s-
eeth that h" Ued, and the milkman "-aid
that If the Commissioner wasn't quite so
old he would knock him down.
At the conference Dr Kineiruti made u
hV ' " th' milk dealer that tho
of Health U mote Imcr.-ted In
,,, , the Muanttty of m
New York sets, and that Its regulati m
regarding the pasteurization of mill: will
bo maintained. He ealil that the 1 liy l.i
conn' tte.l tn a protected udlk upp
Few dealers Invited to the lonfei.nce
failed to attend. Cumml-slonor Dillon
wa present as the representative of tho
Dairymen's league.
Commissioner Dillon never asked tn
to let down the liars," Dr. Emerson said
when the meeting wan over. "Ilo simply
Inquired If there could te any nioillllcn
tlon of the regulation In caso of an
emergency.
Mast Be Pa.tearlsrd.
"We will not accept milk unless It !
pasteurized." the Health Commissioner
continued. "If It Isn't pasteurized when
It conies Into the city It will be pasteur
ized here under our supervision. W
had to reject 20 cans of milk that was
received tn-diiy It came without libels
showing date, point of production nnd
grade. Wo offered the alternative of
pasteurizing It or sendln? It out of the
State
"Suppoe tt should have developed that
typhoid fever was traced to that milk,
We would have no record of It. There
Is 31 per cent. less typhoid In tho city
now than nt this time last year We
must take all the precautions we can
"I called the milk dealers together sj
I could tell them our regulations will be
maintained I explained to them about
the low Infant mortality and repeated
that the milk supply of to-da- was
mainly ieponfdble for the decre.ife In
deaths. I congratulated them upon m iln
talnlng the high grade of mill: and told
them that typhoid fcor was dccitaid
therby,"
The moment that Commissioner Dl!-'
Ion left Dr. Kmerson's ofthe he was sur
rounded by a group of newspaper men
A circle of milk dealers, most of whom
were frothier than 11 pall of milk Just
after th. .tripping, closed In at the same
time.
Mr, Dillon wanted tt plainly under,
stood that he had never made any sug
gestion that the stamlaid regulations bu
changed, and said ho didn't f.i"r uny
change.
F.xpert IIIk Mmrt.KC.
"In my Judgment," be said, "there will
be a very Mrl"U" tho'i im of upli,
fore tho end of the week
"The recelveis of unlit In tb . town
nre paying 10 cents .1 can ab.ve t'.
tegular price to tlm farinei f t thai
quality of milk know;, ,i II111.I. A liu
continued "For thai eUia tn tney
are rhaiging tin c 'y 1 n . ' n 'i
t... ..... .-.f .1... nl lnir :i tvlneiu i.onntlalfils ti.lle Iteen
