PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 3, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 137
- "an .
" ii ft.
ARIZONA
TO
1 0. jfio, Hl
ON UPPER RUCHES OF RIVER
NEAR RUSH ID 10RIU
REACH SOUTH BUNK OF STREAM
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The Rumanians have invaled Bulaaria.
On the upper reaches of the Danube between thefortified towns of
Rustchuk and Tortukai, where the river begins its bend northeastward,
leavina Bulaarian territory and separating Rumania pro pert from Do
brudja, the troops of Rumania have made their way to the southern bank
of the stream.
Just how many men were thrown across the river is not disclosed in
either the Rumanian or German otticial communications, but tne strate-
getic value of the maneuvers seemingly is two-fold.
Ninety miles eastward from Turtukai, which lies at the western ex
tremity of southern Dobrudja, is Varna, Bulgaria's chief seaport on the
Black sea. If sufficient men have been sent across th river and are
sent along the Dobrudja-Bulgarian frontier toward Varna, not alone
would the seaport be in danger,, but the move would constitute a serious
menace toward the isolation of the German, Bulgarian and Turkish forces
operating against the Rumanians to the north.
Simultaneously with the announcement of the crossing of the Danube,
comes a report from Bucharest that a fresh attack along the entire front
in Dobrudja has resulted in the defeat of center and right flanks of the
troops of the central powers.
In Transylvania the Rumanians on both sides of the Great Kukel
river have advanced against the Teutonic allies, while westward in the
vicinity of Orsova and near Petroseny, the Austro-Hungarians have
captured positions from the Rumanians.
The fighting in Galicia with Lemberg the stake has resulted in suc
cesses for the Teutonic a'r!S nrwest of the Galician capitol and
Fleurss in the southeast. On the B rody-Zloehoff road, the Teutons re
captured the ground lost last Saturday, according to both Berlin and
Vienna, and made prisoner 2,306 Russians, white in the Narayuvka and
Zlota Lpia sectors the Russians repulsed vicious attacks of the Teutons,
inflicting heavy casualties and capturing 1,600 men. In the Lutsk region
cf Volhynia northwest of Sviniusky a Russian attack was repulsed.
On the front in France the Ger-mans at Eaucourt I'Abbaye in fierce
fighting regained a footing in some of the buildings of that town, but
west of Gueudecourt and east of Co'-rcelette the British improved their
positions.
On the part of the line held by the French, the men of General Foch
made progress east of Bouchavesnes and repulsed an attack south of
the Somme in the region of Vermandovillers. Inclement weather again
has tmoeced the operations in tho Sommp region.
Little additional news of the fighting on the Macedonian front Has
come to hand. The troops of both sides along the front apparently are
continuing their attacks and counter attacks, with no notable successes
'J' either. Aside from bombardments, wnich are especially severe on
he Carso plateou, little fighting is taking place on the Austro-ltalian
front.
Mining Men Protest Increased Taxes on Mex. Lands
FAXES INCREASE
FOUR FOLD SAY
EN
CORPORAL KILLS OR WOUNDS TWENTY TWO
One person was killed snd one injured and small
from the Zeppelin raid over England Sunday night.
o'arrage resulted
wramnc woumer stroke man submarine, according to a Reutcr
ij'.MHi.N, Oct. 3. Brief announce-; dispatch from Vadsoe, Norway. The
ments from both Bucharest and Berlin crews were landed in their own boats
that the Rumanians had crossed the i which were towed by the submarine.
Janui- south of their capitol and in-1 The Hafnia was jf Z6 tons. - Three
vaded Bulgaria was the only news of Norwegian steamers sailing under the
tins important move in that theater to name of llekla of 95o tons, 2,37:! tons,
reach here tonight. The morning news- and 524 tons are limed,
papers, however, hail the maneuvre ax i
a dramatic counter stroke against the
Bulgarians for the defeat the Ruman
ians suffered at Hermannstadt.
The Times says It hopes the Ruman
ians did not cross with small forces
' because the river is wide and the
southern bank higher than the north
HUGHES IS CERTAIN
OF THREE BIG STATES
CHICAGO. Oct. 2. A report that
Hughes and Fairbanks will carry
New York, Connecticut and New
Jersey was brought to western re
publican national headquarters to
day by Frank H. Hitchcock, who
devoted several weeks to a study of
politics in the east before coming
to Chicago. He said that the sen
timent in New York state outside
of New York citv appeared to be
I overwhelmingly for Hughes. In I
New York City, he said, there was
considerable doubt as to the situa- I
tion. Favorable reports also were
received from West Virginia, :
Hitchcock said. I
I Tl
SKDEI REftLLY
IS
IPARTA
Cross the Danube
BUCHAREST, (Via London) Oct.
2. Rumanian troops have crossed the
Danube river and invaded Bulgarian
territory, according to the official com
munication issued today. The river was
crossed between Rustchu and Turtukai,
rn. so that all disadvantages of posi- tne latter place being where the river
tion are against the Rumanians. In leaves Bulgarian territory and flows
any case the crossing threatens the northeast through Rumania.
rear of Field Marshal von Mackensen's
f'.re in Dobrudja." Joffro Makes Statement
The Germans succeeded in regaining I PARIS, Oct. 2. General Joffrc, un
a footing in the buildings of Eaucourt der date of September 29, sent the fol
1'AM.aye, taken by the British. Sunday, lowing order of the day to the armies
it was stated in the British official 1 the north:
statement tonight. j "The general commander of chief
The Rtramers Hafnia and Hekla, both
Norwegian, have been sunk by a Ger- (Continued on Page Three)
PACKING PLANT BURNS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
OMAHA, Neb.. Oct. 2. Fire in th e Morris and Company packing plant
entirely gutted that structure tonigh t entailinq a .joss estimated at $750,
000. Tho loss ts covered by insurance, according to local officials of the
company. The fire started in the sausage department and rapidly worked
its way through the plant! The offices, the fertilizer and beef killing
plants were the only departments saved.
Seven hundred employes of the Morris company helped the firemen fight
the flames. The fire started at 5:30 p. m. and it was midnight before it
was under control.
SUE HANDED
ROUTS CER1AN
ADVANGE PftHTY
TUCSON IS SHAKEN
BY DYNAMITE BOMB
NEW YORK NOW FACING
SERIOUS Fill OF MILK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 2 In the face of
a serious milk shortage in this city be
ta use of the controversy between the
dairymen's league and individual dis
tributors. Health Commissioner Emer
son declared emphatically late today
that there would be no relaxation in
the rigid inspection of the supply by his
department. He asserted he was more
interested In quality of milk than in
quantity and that the standard could
not !e lowered, no matter how acute
the shortage became.
Dr. Emerson's announcement was
made at a conference attended by John
J. Dillon, state commissioner of foods
and markets, who has been empowered
by members of the league to make
contracts for its members and by the
leading milk distributors of the city.
Neither side had asked Dr. Emerson for
a temporary lowering of the milk
standard to - meet the present emer
gency. Milk brought to the city from
unusual sources will be subjected to a
particularly severe inspection, he
particularly severe Inspection, he stated.
Dr. Emerson declared reports re
ceived from inspectors for his depart-
mentindlrated that about 75 per cent of
the normal supply was received in the
city today. Mr. Dillon asserted that
the shortage would become more acute
as the week advanced.
for the appointment of a non-partisan
referee to take testimony "would be
made to the courts at once."
The investigation was authorized af
ter the receipt of complaints from
both milk dealers and producing farm
ers, alleging that conspiracies In re
straint of the milk trade existed.
Republican A. P. Leaced Wire
LONDON, Oct. 2. The relations be
tween Sweden and the entente powers
are attracting unusual attention here.
and there is every indication that the
situation threatens to become some
what tense. Wi'h the dispute as to
mail seizures still unsettled, there now
has arisen the charge by the entente
that the neutrality of Sweden is not so
loyal and impartial as it should lie.
This has drawn from Stockholm a re
ply as tart and crisp as some of the
notes in the mail controversy which
were characterized by Viscount Grey
as containing words not usually found
in diplomatic correspondence.
Confidence is expressed in the tact
and ability of the British minister to
Sweden, Sir I:me-Howard, to bardie
Groat Britain s interests, for he .ilrcady
lias done much to smooth ovci many
points ot friction that h-tve arisen since
the war began. Sir Kame has been
given full authority to act in the mails
dispute and is co-operating with the
other entente diplomats at Stockholm
in making representations as to the
latest matters in controversy.
The new point of contact with
Sweden is tho outgrowth of the prac
tice ot Demgerent snipping in using
Swedish territorial waters for all Baltic
traffic. Within the safety of this
neutral three-mile limit, English and
other ships of the entente nations have
sailed defiantly into and out of the
Baltic, paying not the slightest heed
to the German fleet looking on from the
outer waters. Similarly, German mer
chant ships have sailed up and down
the west coast of Sweden, heavily
laden with foodstuffs and iron ores,
while Russian destroyers in the north
ern reaches of the Baltic have been
impotent to act.
This practice placed a heavy respon
sibility upon Sweden and kept her fleet
busy day and night patrolling the ter
ritorial waters in protection of the bel
ligerent traders, despite which precau
tions there were nevertheless viola
tions of Swedish neutrality.
Sweden also served notice that her
naval commanders had been instructed
to fire upon all submarines found
prowling within the three-mile limit.
This policy scarcely had been an
nounced when news came of the suc
cessful trip of the Deutschland from
Bremen to Baltimore, and there are the
questions as to whether Swedish war
ships would fire at sight of a German
merchant submarine or whether they
would only fire at entente allied sub
marines, knowing these powers were
not using commercial under-water
boats.
The situation was further comnli
cated by a later determination of the
Swedish government to close the Kog
rund channel entirely to all except
Swedish vessels. Then the entente al
lies decided to- protest. According to
reports received here, there was much
excitement in Stockholm when the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OTTAWA. Out., Oct. 2. A tale of
a corporal in an eastern Ontario bat
talion of the Canadian forces in
France, w ho, single handed, charged a
party of twenty-two Germans ad
vancing to jp attack and killed or
wounded ail of them except one whom
he took prisoner, is related by the of
ficial Canadian "eye witness'' in a
dispatch received today.
As a rest it of further severe fight
ing, the Canadians have captured
several important German positions
of nearly two miles to a maximum
deptu of 900 yards," the dispatch' says.
i nc iiormans nave rougnt hard and
their resistance has been formidable.
To minimize this fact would be to
minimize the gallantry and persist
ence which the Canadians have at
tacked. We nave, in this fighting,
advanced in close co-operation and
sympathy with the British troops on
eit ier flank. Despite the enemy s re
sidence we have, except for temrior
ary and Jocal setbacks, secured in
succession all of our objectives and
by evrry account received we have
inflicted severe losses upon the Ger
mans. "Our artillery support has been
magnificent and by the sheer weight
of metal which the gunner.T have
hurled upon the Germans, they havo
m;'de it humanly possible for the in
fantry to come into close contact with
the onemy. When this has occurred
there has never been any doubt as to
the ontcime.
'in the course of all this derperate
fiKhting. there have been Innumerable
.M.n., :m - i,l rne most courageous am
(Special to The Republican)
TUCSON, Oct. 2 Ling Sanz Polo,
former wealthy backer of the Guate
mov Film company of this place and
Nogales, is under arrest on suspicion
of compicity in a liomb outrage that
partially destroyed the garage of Don
Teofilo Aros, a well to do local cat
tleman, here at 2:20 this morning.
1 he evidence on which Polo is held, is
all circumstantial, and there is much
doubt that he can be connected! with
the dynamiting.
Bad blood has existed between Aros
and Polo since both became dissatis
fied over deals involving the Guate
moc Film company, a mushroom
movie outfit that was promoted here,
but which did not overburden the
film markets with any output.
Residents in the neighborhood of
the Aros home, and people of Tucson
generally, were blown into wakeful
ness early this morning, when a bomb
of dynamite was exploded under th?
Aros garage. Three automobiles were
damaged and the side of the build
ing was blown into the street. Three
sons of Senor Aros. Gustavo, Randolfo
in one end of the garage, were blown
from their beds, but not injured. Two
hundred and fifty windows, all within
two blocks of the garage, were shat
tered. The trouble between Aros and Ling
fcanz Polo broke out afresh about two
months ago, when the former lial
Polo arrested. Polo hal left an au
tomobile in the Aros' private garage,
and when he went to get it. found
Aros had claimed it. He put up a
fignt for the car and was arrested.
Aros. who is interested in mines,
ha-i had some trouble with his labor
ers, and this fact strengthens the be
lief that the dynamite plot might have
hatched in the fertile brain of some
hard rock miner.
Polo got into the news columns a
year ago last March, when with two
other well to do young Nogales Mexi
cans, he drove a new automobile over
th? flood cut bank of the Santa Cruz
river a mile from here, one dark night.
Another car, following that of Polo,
catapulted over it, and the two
whirled in the air and landed in two
tangled heaps on the soft sandy bed
of the creek, forty feet below the
MINING 1
and Teofilo Junior, who were sleeping road. ' By a miracle, nobody was hurt.
BASEBALL PODE MEMORABLE IS
IS REVEALED IN
RAIDINGHBO
of
levotofl action.:, lmnossihlo at ...,. i ... , . ..'
to detail. I "p nui
' The case of a corporal of an east-
rn Ontario battalion, is, however, one
toe most extraordinarv iwr .
'eivcd. The battalion had successfully-captured
a line of German
trench-, When a party of the enemy
consisting of two officers ind about
?0 men. began a counter attack.
The corporal advanced alone
ag-unst tho whole party, emptied hi"
revoiver. picked up first one and
LhV'Kth"r Germ rifle, each of
DEPARTURE OF
IT
which he emptied, accounting for the
two officers and 16 of the men. While
, ,i i T, nne or the officers
tacked Mm with a bavonp. an .
he
at
pierced
knee,
The re
esr aye.
oiiii in ine leir hoi.,... t.-
but the corporal shot hi T
--
or the enemy attempted to
The corriornl uv.n, i
thorn . i- A I . V ""r ot
4 rhV, V ,ne rinn a prisoner,
in be" t Z "-ounded. he remained
was'reHeveT"" UnUI battaIio"
(Continued on Page Two;
Fairbanks Says Wilson's
Charges "Base Utterance
come from his lips can lead any
rational mind to the conclusion that
I. n ntAuM io(ir'i r-,1 i t r 1 1i a ruttiiik nf Alir
iianus Yvanen run ..-aim, i cpumn.au i countr y. He knows the lav and th
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
"LOS ANGELES, Cal., Oct. 1.
To Investigate Situation
ALRANY. N. Y.. Oct. 2 A sweeping
Investigation of the milk situation in
tne state, witn a view to applying a
remedy, was ordered tonight by Attor
ney General Woodbury. He designated
Iieputy Attorney General Merton E.
Lewis, who was counsel to the Thomp
son I"ublic Service committee investi
gation committee, tn conduct thp In
quiry, and announced that application !Ptir.t It,
candidate for vice president, speak
ing in the Auditorium theater tonight
his Fixth address of the day, de
scribed as a "base utterance," such
charges as that made by President
Wilscn Saturday at Shadow Lawn,
when he said "certain prospect of
republican success" in November
would be. the use of force in Mexico
and entanglemert of this country in
the embroilments of the European
war.
"The sugestion wh!ch is how and
then heard." Mr. Fairbanks said, "to
the. effect i-hat republican victory will
tend to our entering the European
war is a base utterance which the
stress of a political campaign does
not warrant.
"Mr. Hughes, as president would
be regardful ot peace with honor. He
will firmly insist upon the observance
of our international rights not as a
means or war but as an assurance
Not one word that ha3
measure of our rights and duties, and
is the last man to recklessly invite
war with any power upon either side
of the Atlantic.
Unsound And Inefficient
PASADEN'A, Cal, Oct. 2 Charles
Warren Fatrbqnks, republican vice
presidential nominee, criticised th
democratic administration as "un
sound and inefficient today in a
late Inncheon address at the Mary
land hotel, and attacked the "false
prosperity cr the last four years
under democratic government.
"Ore of the first of the worst
things which President Wilson did
after his election," Mr. Fairbanks
said, was to commence breaking tho
pledges or the party which had elect
ed lnm to office. His tariff orona
ganda and his personal control over
congress mrtkc him responsible for
the conditions which have existed
during the administration."
HUGHES STILL RESTING
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
VEW YORK, Oct. 2.-Charles Tl
Hughes spent tlK day resting and
going over correspondence which had
accumulated during his late speaking
campaign. He saw no callers Mr
mighes will remain here until Wed
nesday morning; when he will go to
Montclair to lost until h fw J . !
......... nr: win ire n annlhn.
ing tour ifoxt week
speak -
GOETHALS IN NEW YORK
hepuBiican A. P. Leased Wire!
NEW YORK. Oct !m,i.
eral George W. Ooet'h.ni., I
th, Panama canal Z"' Z f
'nnight from Colon on the steamship
Pastores of the United Fruit line
General Goothals said he Hi., 'V"e'
pect to return to the canal zone as
he plans to retire from th f,
December. ' '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Oct. 2. While Federal
s continued today to rlmw
from reluctant witnesses, testimony of
a highly developed organization for
gambling, which the police previously
declared did not exist. City aufhori'
tics scurried around and uncovered ev
idence of a baseball pool in a raid on
a downtown office building.
State's Attorney iioyne. conducting
an independent raid on the Sportsmen's
Club of America, declared he suspected
that the funds derived from a large
sale ot associate memberships was used
as a political fund for the benefit ol
.Mayor William H. Thompson.
Witnesses before Judge Landis told
that the General News Bureau, ol
which Charles Mont Tennes was the
head, daily telephoned racing results
to hundreds of cigar stores and saloons
where bets were made. Ratifications
of the bureau extended to Kansas City,
St. Louis, San Antonio, San Francisco.
Oklahoma City, Cleveland, Cincinnati
and West Baden, Intl., witnesses testi
fied. Tennes' persona! profit from the
organization, it was testified, was
14.000 a month.
Police Captain Collins, who raided
the baseball pool, said paraphernalia
seized indicated elaborate preparations
had been made for betting on the com
ing world series. New cards were
made, each containing combinations of
six players." he said, "and there were
thousands of such combinations. The
documents indicated that as high as
fl.OnO could be won by the holder of an
especially successful combination."
o '
SENATOR CLARKE'S FUNERAL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LITTLE ROCK, Oct. 2. The funeral
of United States Senator James P.
Clarke, who died at his home here yes
terday, will be held from the family
residence at 3 o'clock Tuesday after
noon. Burial will take place in Oak
land cemetery. Little Rock.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY", N. J, Oct. 2 A
committee representing fifty mining
and smelting companies operating in
Mexico protested today to the Ameri
can members of the Mexican-American
joint commission against what they
called "confiscatory decrees" in that
country, and urged the return to the
old methods of taxation.
William Loeb, Jr., representing the
American Smelting and Refining com
pany, headed the delegation. The oth
er members were: Perry Bruere.
American Metals company; D. J. Haff,
Phelps-Dodge company; George Young,
Greene-Cananea Copper company:
Charles Early, United Smelters and
Julian W. Beatty, American Metals
company. It was the first time that
they have appeared before the Ameri
can or Mexican commissioners.
In the mass of statistics submitted
to the American commissioners was a
statement showing the decrease in the
output of metal since 1912. According
to these figures the output in 1912 was:
Silver 33,000,000 ounces; gold 243,000
ounces; copper 74 000 tons; zinc 46,000
tens, and lead 68,000. - twsj(
The figures for the first six months
of 1916 were given as: Silver 6,000,000
ounces; gold 380,000 ounces; copper
23.000 tons; zinc 11,000 tons and lead
3,000 tons.
They told the American commissions
that the export taxes on gold and silver
had been increased to four times what
they were in 1912, and that now a
heavy tax was placed on Jead, copper
and zinc where none had been imposed.
They also placed before the commis
sioners a statement showing heavy in
creases in other taxes -affecting the in
dustry and characterized them as con
fiscatory since the low grades of a
great quantity of the ores produced
made impracticable the operation of
mines under such conditions.
Many forfeitures already have been
forced, according to the committee.
The actual investment of the com-
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Oct. 2. The first
"'vii iiw nave aLiciiivtt-u ail i
organized campaign in the interests of "fT" W3S P'aCa " --1"'"
national politics left New York today I 000'000- The American commissioners
for a speaking tour of the country. It I were assured th tne mining oper
was with a farewell demonstration ators are Prepared to make the govern
worthy of the noveltv and significance I ment contributions which are not in
of the undertaking that the women's I the nat"re of arbitrary actions and
Hughes campaign train pulled out of which a not involve the practical con
Grand Central terminal at 11 o'clock fiscation of property and make impos
tor its five weeks' transcontinental sible the operation of their enterprises
li lit.
Kansas City Not
Strong For Hanly
And His Special
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Oct 2.-The prohi
aii.nuai.es closed their
Moulin uay oi speaKing to small Kansas
crowds today and tonight came across
the Kaw for a meeting here whr in.
terest in the coming state-wide wet
unu uiy iignt is Keen. Striking' out
northwest of here tomorrow, the speak
ers will visit several Kansas and Mis
souri ana iveurasna cities.
Both J. Frank Hanly and Ira Land
rith, candidates for president and vice
president, respectively, pleaded with
Kansas people at every citv ne-ain to.
day to get actively into the national
right, out little enthusiasm was mani
fested. Kansas in the opinion of some of the
campaigners, has had prohibition too
long to arouse much interest in the
nation-wide fight.
Hanly declared that from Colonel
Roosevelt's speech in Battle Creek, on
Saturday night he seemed to be "labor
ing under the impression that he was
nominated at Chicago."
"Roosevelt's indorsement of Hughes
is not enough," he said at Topeka.
"His ability as an underwriter of pres
idents is too well know nto the Ameri
can people; they do not forget that he
underwrote William Howard TafL"
"Right on time, too," sighed a woman
in the great crowd on the platform.
Those who had come to see the train
off swept through the gates in a long
and steady steram, waving their flags,
tooting their horns and singing loudly
whenever the band played anything
with words to it.
"I tell you, a woman knows how to
do things." went on the woman, whis
pering vehemently and near to tears.
The little company gathered in the
observation car and almost completely
hidden by the flag which Dr. Kath
arine Bemet Davis waved up and down
ana around and around, seemed a very
slight one to fill the long train on
ahead; but other women are to join the
on a business basis.'
Secretary of the Interior Lane made
public the memorandum presented by
the mining men and said that the com
missioners would confer with them
again tomorrow. They came here at
the request of the American commis
sioners who wanted their statement of
conditions because of the mass of con
tradictory evidence. "
The joint session of the commission
earlier in the day was marked the
presentation by the Mexicans of a
plan of border patrols which included
the withdrawal of the American forces.
The Mexicans assured the American
commissioners of their belief that their
government would be able to carry
out the promises they were prepared
party on the way, to go as far as they to make and that in the future the mil
can, or through those parts of the
country with which they are best ac
quainted. The company consisted of
Miss Mary Antin, Mrs. Charles Sum
mer Bird. Miss Helen Varick Boswell,
Miss Elizabeth Cutting, Dr. Davis, Mrs.
William Curtis Demorest, Mrs. Wil
liam Einstein, Mrs. George Harvey,
Mrs. Nelson H. Henry, Mrs. Alexander
Kohut, Miss Maude H. Miner, Mrs.
Henry Moskowitz, Mrs. Gifford Pinchot,
Mrs. Nelson O'Shaughnessy, and Mrs.
Travis Whitney. Among those who
will join the train at other places are
Mrs. Raymond Robins, Miss Harriet
Vittum and others.
Traffic was turned off onto Madison
avenue for a while, until the long pro-
(Continued on Page Two)
WILSON HEADQUARTERS ENLIST!
itary forces of Mexico would ade
quately safeguard the border. The de
tails of the plan were not disclosed.
P0ST1STERS IN NATIONAL FICHT
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Oct. 2. Postmasters
are sought as aids in the pro-Wilson
campaign b the democratic national
organization, apparently in violation
of the law and of the declaration of
the leader of the democratic ticket, as
evidenced by material received today
ty William R. Willcox, chairman of
the republican national committee.
. A fourth class postmaster who
knows that he is prohibited by statute
from political activity and who re
spects the law, sent the democratic
national committee's communication to
Mr. Willcox.
It is a pamphlet issued by and
"with the compliments of the demo
cratic nationrJ committee organisation
bureau.'' It is entitled "Wilson Work
ers Annual" and is rul.ler stamped
"sample, additional copies on re
quest." The envelope has "postmaster"
printed on it in large letters and the
name of his postoffice is typewritten.
1 he envelope is postmarked at Cue
Grand Central station branch postof
fice. the nearest to tho democratic
national committee offices in East
Second street.
"This is an evidence of direct ef
fort to procure violation of the law
hv federal employes for the benefit of
tha democratic national ticket" and
Mr Willcox said. "It is not the first
we have received. It belies the prom
ises and the public utterances of the
man for whose benefit it is done.
"I do not deem it proper to direct
special circulars to civil service em
ployes and that has not been done
by this committee. This action taken
by the democratic national committee
organization is directly contrary to the
spirit of the civil service and ought
to be condemned by all right thinking
persons."
Guard Officers Resign
DOUGLAS, Oct. 2. Officers of the
signal corps attached to the New Jer
sey brigade have tendered their resig
nations, which have been approved by
Colonel Van Walraven, commanding
the Fifth New Jersey infantry, and
forwarded to General Funston, it was
learned here today. Members of the
signal corps, who announced their res
ignations, said the officers' action fol
lowed the receipt of orders to proceed
to Nogales, Ariz. The cavalry and ar
tillery sections of the New Jersey
troops have received instructions to
leave Saturday for home stations.
The field hospital company and B
battery. District of Columbia militia.
have occupied the camp formerly used
by the First New Jersey infantry.
Funston Inspects Camps
CORPUS CHRISTI. Oct. 2 Major
General Funston spent today here in
specting Camp Scurry and reviewing
the 3,000 men of the Second and Third
Texas infantry. He was accompanied
by General James Parker, commanding
troops in the Brownsville district.
General Funston, who left tonight
for San Antonio, said he was well
pleased with the condition of the men
and camps in the Brownsville district.
Neutrality Being Investigated
EL PASO, Oct. 2. United States dis
trict court opened here today and the
grand jury is now making an investi
gation of a number of alleged neutral-
(Contlnued on Page Two)
Guardsmen Volunteer To
March For Gov. Hughes
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Oct 2. At a meeting
of a rational guard unit of 60 men,
just held in New York, the captain
took a vote upon whether the com
pany should go to Washington March
4, 1917, to march in the inaugural pa
rade, as it has at previous inaugura
tions. .
The company is composed largely of
laboring men, and fifty per cent of
them are union men, plumbers, ex
pressmen, motormen and workers in
other trades.
"If President Wilson is re-elected,"
said the captain, '"who wants to go to
Washington to march in the inaug
ural parade?" Not a man spoke.
"If Governor Hughes is elected."
was the second question, "will every
man who wants to go to Washington
to march, rise?"
Every man in the company sprang
to his feet.
