The Interior
JQ&NAL
--
Established 1860.57th Year.-No. 78
Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Tuesday, October 3, 1916.
Tuesdays and Fridays
JOHN W. ROUT DIES
FORMER POSTMASTER AND A
RESPECTED CITIZEN
One of Stanford's Oldest Residents
Answers Last Summons After
Long and Upright Life.
John W. Rout, one of Stanford's
oldest and most respected citizens,
breathed his last about 11 o'clock
Monday morning.
The passing of this generally be
loved old gentleman has caused pro
found sorrow in all the walks of
life, for it can be most truly said
that he had no enemies, and during
a long and useful life for each and
everyone who crossed his pathway,
had a cheery smile and a kindly word
of greeting. For over a year his
strength had been failing rapidly.
Up until that time he was probably
the best preserved man of his years
in this section. He was close upon
his 80th milestone when the sum
mons came to leave his loved ones
here. Until about a year ago, he
was as active and energetic as a
man a quarter of a century younger,
and few guessed, from his daily de
meanor, the years which had passed
over his head. Whole-souled, gener
ous to a degree, and a gentleman of
the old school, he made every man
his friend and lived a life which will
ever be a shining example before his
sons and loved ones who are left to
mourn that he has left them.
Mr. Rout was a member of one
of the most prominent families of
this section. He was a son of the
late Wesley Rout. A brother, Jo
seph Rout, who resides with his son,
John B. Rout at Hustonville, and a
sister, Mrs. Mary Owens, of Somer
set, are other surviving children of
his parents. Besides them, he is sur
vived by his always devoted and lov
ing wife who was Miss Emma
Broaddus before their wedding
years ago and the following chil
dren, Messrs. B. Frank Rout, Beverly
Rout and Jack Rout, and Misses Sue
and Martha Rout, all of whom were
constant in their attendance and de
votion to their loved one during all
the hours of his decline. Everything
that loving hands and tender hearts
could do was done to minister unto
his earthly necessities. Mr. Rout in
early life gave his soul into the keep
ing of his Lord and Savior, and daily
lived a life which showed to all the
world exemplification of the teach
ings of the meek and lowly Naza
rene. He was a prominent member
of the Presbyterian congregation of
this ci"y, and his pastor and his
church will miss him greatly from
its work.
Always a staunch democrat and
an active worker for the success of
his party, he was recognized by its
leaders in 1892, when he was ap
pointed Postmaster of Stanford, un
der Presidint Grover Cleveland's
second term. He served four years
with great faithfulness and honor to
himself and the department, being
ably assisted by his daughter, Miss
Sue Rout.
Funeral services will be conducted
Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock at
the home on West Main street, Rev.
P. L. Bruce officiating.
A friend sends to the I. J. the fol
lowing account of the life of Mr.
Rout, which is very timely and ap
preciated: John Wesley Rout was born in
Lincoln county, Kentucky, near Stan
ford, where he has passed his whole
life. He became a christian early in
life when 14 years old, while the Rev.
Sidney McRoberts was minister here.
He was in his 80th year, his 79th
birthday being the 10th of August.
He was married to Emma Broaddus
in the year of 1860 and of this union
there were five children all of whom
are living. The death of Mr. Rout is
the first link to be broken in this sin
gularly perfect family chain. He has
lived an exemplary life, one that has
been an open book to all who knew
him and all knew Tilm as an upright
citizen, a firm friend, a loving faith
ful husband and father and a humble
believing child of God.
There remains to mourn his home
going, his devoted wife, Mrs. Emma
Rout, his children, Beverly, Frank,
Jack, Misses Sue and Martha, one
sister, Mrs. Belle Owens, of Somer
set, and one brother, Joseph Rout,
living near Hustonville, Ky. With
the passing of John W. Rout, one of
Nature's noble men has gone into
the great beyond. He was appointed
a deacon of the Presbyterian church
at the age of 17 and for many years
has been an Elder.
DIXIE ROOK CLUB
Mrs. Harry Hill entertained the
Dixie Rook Club on Thursday after
noon. Miss Sue Taylor Engleman
won the most games during the after
noon. A lovely salad course was serv
ed. Those present besides the mem
bers of the club were: Mrs. L. E. Car
penter, of Philadelphia, Pa., Mrs. C.
A. Carter, Mrs. Lucy Miller Bartley,
Misses Martha McClary and Maggie
Stagg.
C. E. SOCIAL ENJOYED.
The Union Christian Endeavor so
cial given by the members of the
Presbyterian Endeavors on last Fri
day evening was greatly enjoyed all
present. Games and other amuse
ments were indulged in. Refresh
ments were served very bountifully.
NAMED FEDERAL INSPECTOR
Dr. R. E. Taylor, veterinarian of
this city, has just received news of
his appointment as Federal Inspec
tor of Live Stock for this and ad
joining counties. The appointment
was made by State Inspector Mussel
man. Dr. Taylor is well qualified
for the position, being a very expert
veterinarian, and thoroughly con
versant with all departments of his
work.
West End Election Case!
Of Much Interest Finally Passed
Upon By State's Highest Court
The Court of Appeals decided an
important case from Lincoln county
last week, when it held that to vote
in party primaries the voter must
have supported all the nominees of
the party at the previous general
election and not only a majority of
them. The case developed at Huston
ville in the 1914 senatorial election
when the election officers in two
precincts refused to allowed a num
ber of democrats to vote, on the
ground that they had not supported
all of the nominees at the last pre
vious county election. It was brought
out that some of the men refused a
ballot who were ultra dry in their
views voted against one or two wet
men on the county ticket.
The state's highest court's opinion
says that a man may participate in a
primary if he failed to vote for
some or all of the nominees but that
he may not participate in the primary
if he voted against any of them, that
is, voted for their opponents on
some other ticket.
The report to the daily papers of
the court's decision at Frankfort, is
of much interest and importance to
all voters who wish to participate
in the party primaries in the future.
It said:
Voters, who thought to retain their
party regularity by carefully scratch
ing so as to vote for a majority of
their party's nominees, will be disil
lusioned by an opinion of the Court
of Appeals in the case of the Com
monwealth against Everett Carson
and Thomas Bell, Democratic pri
mary officers at Hustonville precinct,
Lincoln county, charged with pre
venting Livingston Cooper from vot
ing. The law says "no person shall be
deemed affiliated with a party in
whose primary he seeks to cast his
vote if he voted against the nominee
or nominees of such party at the gen
eral election."
Construing this, Commissioner
Clay, who wrote the opinion of the
Court of Appeals, said it is not the
province of the court to pass upon
the wisdom of the law, but while
failure to vote for some or all of the
nominees of the party will not bar
him from the primary "if he actually
participated in the general election
and voted against any of the nomi
nees of the party in that election, he
is not entitled to participate in the
next primary election held by that
party."
STOLE HORSE AND BUGGY
A couple of white men whose
identity has- not yet been learned but
is suspected, stole E. N. Terry's bug
gy and horse from in front of W. B.
Buchanan's junk shop on Somerset
street Saturday night. They were
found Sunday morning on the Bon
ewille road by Jim Logan, colored,
who notified Mr. Terry. The buggy
contained $7 worth of groceries
which had not been taken, however.
Several saw the men drive off at a
gallop. Mr. Terry is offering a sub
stantial reward for information con
cerning the two men, and when his
suspicions are proved, will endeavor
to send them to the penitentiary on
a horse stealing charge.
MRS. HARRY STAGG DEAD
News was received here this morn
ing by Mrs. Jessie Stagg that her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Harry Stagg
had paased away at Somerset this
morning at an early. Mrs. Stagg, who
lived in Knoxville, Tenn., went to
Somerset last week to the hospital
of Dr. Anderson, the colored doctor,
for treatment. The body will be
brought here for interment, but no
further arrangementt have been
made as the I. J. goes to press. A full
account will be given next issue.
Millinery Opening at McKinney
The Emporium of Hustonville,
will give a Millinery Opening at the
Veranda Hotel, McKinney, October
6th. Let everybody come out and
see what is to be worn. Charles
Wheeler. 77-2
NATION CLUB ENTERTAINED
Mrs. H. J. McRoberts entertained
the Nation Club at her home on Lo
gan avenue last Tuesday afternoon.
A delightful salad course was served.
Those present were: Mesdames J. C.
Bailey, J. B. Paxton, J. B. Foster, A.
H. Severance, Wm. Severance, E. J.
Brown, R. T. Bruce, R. M. Newland,
R. C. Hocker, J. S. Rice, S. M. Sauf
ley and Miss Lyle Cooper.
WHEN YOU TAKE COLD
With the average man a cold is a
serious matter and should not be
trifled with, as some of the most
dangerous diseases start with a com
mon cold. Take Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy and get rid of your cold as
quickly as possible. You are not ex
perimenting when you use this rem
edy, as it has been in use for many
years and has an established reputa
tion. It contains no opium or other
narcotic. Obtainable everywhere.
PUBLIC SALE
On SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21st.,
at 9:30 a. m., at my residence, two
miles from Stanford on the Danville
pike, I will sell to the highest bid
der some cattle, horses, mules and
hogs, some baled hay, vehicles, farm
ing implements; furniture, extra
fine. Come and look at the good
things to be sold, then come and buy
yourself rich. Terms: All sums un
$10, cash; ten dollars and over, six
months credit, with note and approv
ed security.
JOS. BALLOU, Stanford, Ky.
ONE LAST CHANCE AT $1 A YEAR
The I. J. sent the following letter this week to quite a number of
its subscribers whose subscriptions have expired and who have failed to
renew at the $1 rate as so many desire to do:
Stanford, Ky., Oct. 2, 1916
Dear Friend:
Your subscription to the I. J. has expired. We
sincerely hope that its visits have been such that
you desire it to continue for another year or many
more.
The increasing high cost of white print paper
has compelled us to raise the subscription price to
$1.50 a year. We had planned to put the new
subscription price into effect October 1 st, but so
many of our friends forgot to renew and then
phoned us at the last moment that we agreed to
extend the time till after next County Court day,
October 9th, 1916.
As you are one of those who have failed to
take advantage of the old $ 1 rate, and as we are
very anxious to keep you on our list, we are sug
gesting this last chance to renew for the I. J. at $ 1
a year. You can send in $ 1 for another year or as
many dollars as you wish at the $1 rate, to pay
for as many years in advance as you desire. After
Oct. 9th, the rate will be $1.50 to all, payable
strictly cash in advance, paper stopping when
time for which it is paid has expired.
Don't neglect this opportunity. Send in a dol
lar or more and you will be duly credited. Thank
you.
With kindest regards,
THE INTERIOR JOURNAL
PROGRAM OF THE KENTUCKY SUNDAY
SCHOOL ASSOCIATION CONVENTION AT
SOMERSET, KY., OCTOBER 5-6-7-8, 1916
Men and women conspicuous in Church, Sunday-School and Educa
tional work have been secured for the program of the Fifty-first State
Convention of the Kentucky Sunday-School Association, which will meet
at Somerset, October 5-8. The general theme of the convention is "To
Serve," and a majority of theVaudresses will bear on this theme in one
way or another.
Some of the speakers will be Mr. Marion Lawrance, General Secre
tary International Sunday-School Association; Mrs. Phebe A. Curtiss, Ele
mentary Superintendent Ohio Sunday-School Association; Miss Nannie
Lee Frayser, Elementary Superintendent Kentucky Sunday-School Asso
ciation, Rev. Chas. D. Bulla, D. D., Superintendent -Wesley Bible Class
Department Methodist Church, South; Dr. J. K. Sampey, LL.D., Southern
Baptist Theological Seminary; Dr. R. H. Crossfield, President Transyl
vania University; Dr. W. A. Ganfield, President Centre College; Dr. W. J.
McGlothlin, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary; Mr. C J. Nugent,
Divisional Secretary Methodist Church, South.
The music will be in charge of Mr. Charles H. Gabriel with his son,
Mr. Charles H. Gabriel, Jr., as pianist.
The principal features of the program will be:
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5.
Afternoon Four Confeiences, 3:00 to 4:30. Hlemcntarv Theme, "The New
Klementary Standard." Secondary Tln-me. "The School's Secondary Division
Piosi-am." Adult Theme. "Mow the Adult Class Selves." Admimstiation
Mr. M.ulon Lawrance will lead a discussion of pioblems presented by Sunday
School OHiceis.
Evening Soup Set vice. Mr. Chas. Tr. Oahiiel. leader. Someisefs Welcome.
Maor J. L.. Waddle. 1'iebidenfs Message. Mr. Huston Quin. "The Spit it of
1916," Rev. Geo. A. Joplin. "Qualifying for Service." Mr. Mai ion Lawrance.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6.
Morning Theme, Surveying the FielO Sonfr Service, Bible Study. "The
Field of Service for Organized Sunday-School Work," Mr. Marion Lawrance.
liepoi ts of Field Workers, Rev. T. C. Gebauer and Mr. W. J. Vaughan. Repoi t
of Ollice Secretarv, Miss Frances L. Grigsbv. Report of Treasurer, Mr. Clar
ence Watkins. "The Adult Bible Class in Rural Distiicts." Dr. Chas. D. Bulla.
"Organized for Serice." District. County, State, County OHicers. "Individual
Responsibility," Mrs. Phebe Curtiss.
Afternoon Theme, Serving the Multitudes. Song Service. Memory Verses.
"The Gold Star Standaid," Mr. Thus. F. Goidon. "How We Worked to Attain
It," Representatives of Different Counties. Views of Go-To-Sunday-School
Day, parade, open air. Services. Posters, Visitation. Rural District. Local Sunday-School,
County Campaign. "The Association Officer," Mr. Marlon Lawrance.
Evening Theme. Christian Citizenship. Song Service, Mr. Chas. H. Gabriel.
"A Greater and a Better State," Mr. Mai ion Jiwiance. "The Sunday-School
Training for Citizenship," President W. A. Ganfield. A Story, Mrs. Phebe
Curtiss.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7.
Morning Theme. The World is the Field. Song Service. Bible Study. "The
World, a Field for Service." lire. T. J. Miliary. "The Child! en of the World."
Mis. Maude Dance Williams. "Knlisting Recruits for This Service," Mr. Roy
Roadruck. "Seven Sunday-School Symptoms." Mr. C. J. Nugent. Business.
"Our State Paper," Miss Mary L. Wilson. Recognitions. Hon. J. B. Weaver.
Afternoon Four Conferences. Elemental y Theme, The Association's Pio
grain. Secondary Theme. The County Program. Adult Theme. Organized
Adult Bible Class Federations. Administration Theme, Ofilceis' Tiaining.
Evening Theme. The Teacher's Service. Song Service. Mr. Chas. H. Ga
briel. "Five Scenes In Peter's Life," Dr. John R. Sampey. "The Land of
Piomise," Miss Nannie Lee Fiayser. "New Ideals In Religious .Education,"
President R. H. Crossfield.
SUNDAY, OCTOBER .
Morning Attend Sunday-Schools and Church Services.
Afternoon Three Mass Meetings. Children's Meeting, Miss Nannie Lee
Frayser, leader. Young People's Metine. Speakers, Dr. J. R. Sampey and Miss
Frances L. Grigsby. Adult's Meeting, Speakers, W. J. McGlothlin and Dr. R.
H. Ciosstleld.
Evening Theme. Power for Service. "Consecration for Service." Rev. Roy
L. Brown. "Preparation for Service." Dr. W. J. McGlothlin. Convention Impressions.
SOMERSET CHRISTIAN CHURCH
Church In Which State Sunday-school
Convention is to be held October 5-8.
Poison For Monkey
Put Out By Dr. Reid After Raids
On Pure Bred Poultry
Dr. Hugh Reid believes that he
"got" the escaped monkey from
Sparks circus one night late last
week. The chimpanzee, ape or what
ever family of the monkey tribe it
belongs to, showed up at Sam Gen
try's chicken house Sunday and Mr.
Gentry closed the door and all the
holes, he thought, in an effort to
capture him, but the monk escaped
through a ventilation hole. Then
John O. Reid, proprietor of the Lom
bardy Heights Farm, began to miss
a lot of his fine blooded Leghorns.
Dr. Reid chased the simain up a tree,
but he swung from one tree to an
other with all ease, and easily got
away. Dr. Reid says he saw him leap
from the top of a poplar tree which
was taller than the highest telephone
pole. He expected to see the monk
broken into pieces when he hit the
ground, but he landed "right side up
with care" without a scratch and
hustled for the barn where they
couldn't get him at all. Becoming
tired of the raid on his poultry pens,
Dr. Reid says he put out poison for
the monkey, which he believes finish
ed him, as he has not been seen for
several days. He managed to kill
about S50 worth of chickens for
young Mr. Reid, however.
Trial of "Negro Doctor"
Creates Great Deal of Interest in
Court at Somerset.
Quite a number of Lincoln county
people have been treated by the so
called colored doctor of Somerset
and much interest has attached to
the suit by the State Board of Health
to force him to quit business. Great
crowds attended the trial at Som
erset last week. The Somerset Com
monwealth said of the trial: An in
junction is being asked, by the rep
resentatives of the commonwealth to
prevent Dr. Anderson from continu
ing the practice of medicine and the
treatment of patients at his sanita
rium at Ferguson in this county. Dr.
McCormack, the head of the State
Board of Health is prosecuting the
icase in the name of the common-
j wealth and has as his counsel the
VJUlJIlllUlltVCUllll O XXklULUCJI II ttltvi .
Flippin, (whose duty it is to prose
cute the case) and Attorney McNutt
of Rockwood, Tenn., who was instru
mental in forcing Dr. Anderson to
discontinue the practice of treating
patients in the state of Tennessee.
Dr. Anderson claims to be an In
dian and treats his patients with the
herbs and roots of the forest- and
field which he claims are nature's
original remedies.
From evidence introduced by the
defense Dr. Anderson surely must be
able to accomplish results as some
of the best people of Pulaski coun
ty testified to having been cured by
his treatments after the failure of all
other doctors and medicines, some
having traveled over different parts
of the country to consult with spe
cialists and take health resort treat
ment. Chiefly among this class was
Attorney O. H. Waddle, who is de
fending Dr. Anderson in this case, he
having visited New York in search of
a specialist who might be able to of
fer him a remedy whereby he might
gain relief, finally tried Dr. Ander
son and he is now almost fully re
stored to health and vigor at the ad
vanced age of 65 years.
YOUTHFUL NEGRO THIEF
While Miss Dora Straub, of the
Straub Millinery store, was out of
the shop a few minutes last week, a
little negro, named Buck Baughman,
about 10 or 12 years of age, slipped
into the storeoom and grabbed Miss
Straub's pocket book. She came into
the store just in time to see him. He
dropped the purse and made off. Mr.
W. B. Buchanan, who was standing
near, ran him out Somerset street
for some distance but the youngster
gave him the slip and has not been
seen since. He will undoubtedly "go
over the road" if he shows up around
town again.
HOW CATARRH IS CONTRACTED
Mothers are sometimes so thought
less a s otngelTienecedlebr -hacohh
less as to neglect the colds which
their children contract. The inflam
tion of the mucus membrane, at first
acute, becomes chronic and the child
has a chronic catarrh, a disease that
is seldom cured and that many prove
a life's burden. Many persons who
have this loathsome disease will re
member having had frequent colds at
the time it was contracted. A little
forethought, a bottle of Chamber
lain's Cough Remedy judiciously us
ed, and all this trouble might have
been avoided. Obtainable everywhere.
HUGH NOE BUYS A HOME.
Through Real Estate Dealer A. B.
Florence, Hugh Noe, district agent
for the International Harvester Com
pany, with headquarters in Stanford,
last week bought a nice cottage
home on Lancaster avenue from John
A. Allen. This is the place which has
been occupied by Kelly Francis for
several months. Mr. Allen will build
a nice stable for Mr. Noe, before the
transaction is completed. The con
sideration is understood to have been
about $2,000.
DESPONDENCY.
When you feel discouraged
and
despondent do not give up but take a
dose of Chamberlain's Tablets and
you are almost certain to feel all
right within a day or two. Despon
dency is very often due to indiges
tion and biliousness, for which these
tablets are especially valuable. Ob
tainable everywhere.
SHERLEY TO SPEAK
LOUISVILLE CONGRESSMAN TO
SPEAK MONDAY.
Gov. Black and Congressman Helm
Heard In East End County
Dates Announced.
One of the greatest democrats in
the nation will speak to the voters
nf Lincoln rniintv here next Monday
afternoon, county court day. He is
Swagar Sherley, congressman irom
Louisville, and a leader in the House
of Representatives, one of the big
men of the party, a student, thinker
and orator. All who miss hearing
Sherley speak in Stanford will miss
one of the good things of the present
campaign. He will discuss the ad
ministration of President Wilson and
answer his critics in a way which will
appeal to every thinking man. The
speaking is scheduled "or 1:30 in the
afternoon at the courthouse, and un-
flmihtpfllv n hrp- crowd will be out to
- -.J c, --
hear this real statesman and orator.
BLACK AT CRAB ORCHARD
Lieut. Gov. James D. Black, who
has never yet failed to respond when
called upon by Lincoln county De
mocracy, came dovm from his home
in Barbourville Saturday and deliver
ed a splendid addrfiss at Crab Or
chard that afternon on behalf of
Congressman Helm, President Wilson
and the wholf Democratic ticket.
Those who heard the popular lieu
tenant governor speak, say it was a
masterpiece of eloquence, and that
he delivered the straight, old-fashjon-ed
democratic doctrine straight
from the shoulder. Gov. Black told of
the magnificent work which Presi
dent Wilson has done, and called at
tention to the trials and troubles
which have beset him during his
term of office. No president since
critical peroids during his adminis
tration as Woodrow Wilson, and only
his master mind has saved the ship
of the state from foundering amid the
peroid of storm and trouble through
which it has passed.
Congressman Helm went up to
shake hands with his many friends in
the East End and to introduce Gov.
Black. They were greeted by a good
audience, of about 300 people. So
many came in that it was impossible
to contain the crowd in the small
"city hall" and thespeaking had to
held out of do.trs. Congressman
Helm spoke first and introduced the
governor, giving his hearers a few
snappy, telling arguments which were
greatly appreciated by all. Gov.
Black followed, and neld the attention
of all throughout his address. Gov.
Black fs not only a politician but a
thinker and knows how to clothe his
thoughts so that they appeal to all
classes. He urged the mountaineers
of the East End, like himself, a
mountaineer, to stand by the presi
dent, who has kept the United States
out of a frightful war when all the
world is ablaze with the fire and
thunder of cannon. Gov. Black was
frequently applauded and undoubt
edly did a lot of good by his speech
at Crab Orchard. His visit to Lincoln
was greatly appreciated by leading
members of the party, with whom he
has been a prime favorite for many
years.
HELM AT HARRODSBURG
Congressman Harvey Helm spoke
at Harrodsburg Monday, where it
was county court day, and a large
audience was on hand to hear him.
He made a vigorous defense of Presi
dent Wilson and his administration
and stirred up the democrats to re
newed enthusiasm. Reports from
Mercer are to the effect that Demo
crats of that splendid county are
completely united in support of Wil
son, Helm and the entire ticket and
a substantial majority is looked for
on November 7th.
DEMOCRATIC SPEAKING.
Democratic speakers will "shell the
woods" for Woodrow Wilson and the
ticket during the final month before
the election. The following dates
have so far been announced and oth
ers will be given later:
McKinney, Saturday. Oct. 14, 7 p.
m. K. S. Alcorn, J. S. Owsley and
Herbert Reynolds.
Broughtontown, Monday, Oct. 16,
7 p. m. iW. B. Hansford, and W. S.
Burch.
Richards' Schoolhouse, Monday,
Oct. 16, 7 p. m. T. J. Hill, Jr., M.
F. North and Herbert Reynolds.
Crab Orchard, Saturday. Oct. 21,
1:30 p. m. K. S. Alcorn, J. S. Ows
ley, T. J. Hill, Jr., and W. B. Hans
ford. Waynesburg, Saturdav, Oct. 21,
1:30 p. m. J. B. Paxton, W. S.
Burch and Rowan Sanfley.
BRUNER TO SPEAK HERE.
The republican campaign in Lin
coln county will be opened here on
Friday night when Dr. Ben L. Bruner
one of the ablest republicans in Ken
tucky, will speak at the courthouse
at 7:30 o'clock. Dr. Bruner is a fine
speaker and will undoubtedly be
heard by a good crowd, for outside of
the fact that he is a very bitter par
tisan republican in politics, he is a
splendid gentleman in every way.
Dr. Bruner has announced that he
will be a candidate for the republi
can nomination for governor next
time.
News of the Churches
The C W. B. M. will meet Wed
nesday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock at
the Christian church.
Presbyterian Church Mid-Week
Service on Wednesday evening at
7:30. Service preparatory to the
Communion which will be celebrated
on Sunday, October 8th, at 11 a. m.
