TURNER IS JUST A POLITICIAN
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
That is why. perhaps, George Turner thought The
Star might even supjvort him.
Politicians, moved by partisanship as often as by
principle, can move from one political bed to another
and not feel uncomfortable. Thcv are willing to patch
tip past differences, compromise upon principles, and tor
get even "raw" deals. They are willing for the *akc of
PARTY to sacrifice men who have really sitved the
public welfare.
The Star is not s<> constituted.
Sen. Poindcxter ha* served m\ years in the -eiiate
and two in the house, lie has cast votes on all important
measures. They were consistently for the public wel
fare so much so thai e\eu Sen. Turner dares not criticise
Sl'l CIFK \I.LY a Mitgle vote
The Star judges men hy their record*, not by their
words.
Four years ago. The Star pot a "clo»e up" view of
George Turner in action, and the impression thus gained
was that Turner i- JUST \ POLITICIAN. I hat was
during the state democratic convention in 1912 at Walla
Walla.
\ great principle was involved at that convention.
It was whether the popular M>te in King coanty at volun
tary primaries should control, or whether self-constituted
Ih'svos in the King county democratic committee should
l»c permitted to "handpick" 150 delegates to the state
convention.
ON NOVEMBER 7
ON ELECTION DAY, NOVEMHKR 7. YOI W'lT.t, HE
ASKED TO PASS ON 19 MEASURES YOI AHK KK
QFIRED TO VOTE YES" OK NO WHAT ARK
THEY ABOCT? THE STAR W'll,l, GIVE YOl' A SI M
M \RY OF THEM At.l, WEDNESDAY THEY fIHOI'UD
INTEREST EACH AND EVERY VOTER.
WILL ALLIES EXILE KAISER?
HOTEL CLERK
WHIPS THUGS
Tbraa thuga were put t» rout
after a fierce struggle with
Clark C. J. Rally, whan they
attempted ta rob tha eaah reg
ieter and aafa ef tha Cant rat
hotel, 1514 Waatlaka ava.. Man
day morning.
Armad with a ahort billy, tha
dark, succeeded In knocking
ana af tha attack ing party to
tha floor. Ma triad to phono
tha police. but waa unabla to
daltvar hia meaeage before a
blow on tha back of tha ha ad
knock ad him out.
The trio entered the hotel of
fice. and while one started to reg
later, the other two dodged behind
OKIIMA CABINET
QUITS IN MCE
" OF OPPOSITION
WASHINGTON. Oct 3—
Para latent opposition of tha
Japanaae upper, non-alactiva
nouae of parliament to the poll
elaa of Premier Okuma, la re
apontible for hie reaignatlon,
newt of which waa cabled
from Toklo today. Thia la the
belief of the embassy here.
Okuma* party controlled the
majority of the lower house. but
• coalition of other partlea In the
upper house waa formed again*'
him. It la said Okuma ha* for
•ome week* felt unable to con
tinue a part of the government
and face the npper houae when It
convenes 'r. December.
It I* understood the premier haa
been contemplating realgnlng for
. aome month* and haa been waiting
» for a time when he thought he
could arrange a aucceaaor from
III* own party.
Viscount Kato, former minister
of foreign affair* under Okuma
and now leader of the latter * par
ty in the lower nou*e. I* said to
■a* be the candidate of that body and
of Okuma for the premiership
Okuma's opponent* In the upper
house are advocating the appoint
ment of Count Marshal Teraurhl,
now governor of Korea.
Terauchl, with the title of mar
shal, has (he highest rank In the
Japanese irmy Marquis Okuma I*
7# yenra old and has been premier
for two and a half years. It la
considered likely that hi* advanc
ed yearn have something to do
with hla desire to retire.
DR. SATO SURPRISED
Ambassador Faio, who arrived
here from Japan late Hunday night.
e*pres«ed surprise today when
1 ulted I'ress dispatched telling of
the resignation of the Okuma cal*
Inet were read to him by a Star re
porter.
"I had heard nothing of it. and
%m as much In the dark as you are
M to reasons for the reported re*
ignatlons." he said "There was
no Intimation that the Okuma 'ate
Inet anticipated sttch a step when
1 left lnpan
"M Dot true that Marquis
lb* counter.
Kelly grasped tha rlnb ha alwajra
keepa aa a weapon for «uch eruar
gentlee. and turned In time to r»-
celt« a flat blow In the fare.
Ha etruggled with 'be biggaat of
the three, while tha other two tried
to op«n (ha raah register. be gays.
"They told ma to coma ttarti with
thai keya to the aafa." be toM tha
pollre. "and Juat then I rapped the
big *uy In the fare with tha billy.
He fell to (ha floor and I jumped
on him. holding hi* head between
my lew
' The other two ran out the door
and I tried to phon«v Hut they ran
bach In and grabbed roe before !
could net the connection. «nd rea
cued the big feJ'ow •*
They didn't forced In getting
Into the cash register, or doiiiK any
damage aside. from bruising up
Kelly
WORLD'S SERIES TO
BEGIN ON SATURDAY
NEW YORK. Oct. 3.—The
first and second games of the
world's seriea will be played
in Boston on October 7 and 9.
The national baaeball commis
sion so decided at Its meeting
here today.
STRIKE PEACE
DRAWS NEARER
Following the vote of the long
ahoremen on the proposition of re
turning to work at present wage
achedulea and taking up the que*,
tlon of new wage* by arbitration In
10 day*, the. Water Front Kmpioy
era' union Tueaday waa considering
the name proposition.
While no direct word ha* been
received. Mediation Commissioner
Mlackman and Immigration Com
missioner White feel confident thai
a favorable attitude, will be taken
by both aide*
"There I* no telling exactly *h»n
the strike may be railed off." said
White "The situation looks con
slderahly more hopeful than It hu
been at any time. however"
NeJther Blackmail nor Whit#
would discuss any further details.
A. I. SANDERS accidentally shot
and killed Boyd Sheiton while
hunting deer near Walla Walla
Monday.
Okuma did not control the cabinet,
it was working In harmony, and
reports to the contrary are mere
conjectures of persons who are
misinformed
If subsequent events prove the
report true, it will occasion no dis
turbance In Japan. I can not un
derstand why the resignations
should have been offered, for the
Okuma cabinet was hacked by a
strong party organization."
Itr Hato wIM be the guest of Se
attle's leading public men tonight,
and leave tomorrow for hla new
post In Waabluglun.
1 lie popular vote favored W oodrow Wilson over
whelmingly.
But the King county democratic executive commit
tee "handpicked" 150 delegates favoring Judson Harmon
of Ohio primaril) and Speaker < lark -econdarily.
georgt turner was \<;aixst wilson
l\ I'M.' AND REMAIN F.I) AGAINST HIM UNTIL
WILSON WON THE NOMINATION.
I his, of itself, i* no reflection on Turner, lie bad a
perfe> t right to be for Speaker I laik. or Harmon, or
any one else
Rut he went further. At the Walla Walla conven
tion be voted to seat the "handpicked" delegates from
King county instead of those elected by popular vote.
He voted for "bossism" instead of the people's rule. He
voted for and encouraged a scheme which defrauded Wood
row Wilson out of the rightful delegation of this state—
and the result was that the state of Washington, which
was really for Wilson, as far as the rank and file of the
democratic party was concerned, WRONGFULLY
SENT A DELEGATION TO BALTIMORE IN
STRUCTED FOR CLARK
It was e\actl\ the same tat tics which Col Roosevelt
denounced as "robbery" at the republican conventions
in Aberdeen and t hicago.
And progressive democrats in this city and state de
nounced it at robbery. Men like George Cotterill, Hugh
Todd. George Kyan, Robert Bridges and other*, either
privately or publicly, bitterly assailed George Turner for
giving encouragement to "handpicking" politics.
The Seattle Star
I THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS J
VOLUME 1».
Looke-e-e! These Pretty
Girls Are Going to Sell
The Star on the Street
Dorothy Morgan and Edna Small, pretty mo»i« actresses, who ara
going to tell The Star on the streets to win a bat.
BY TID COOK
"Down at the Washington."
phoned the managing editor lo
me, 'are two good looking
young ladle* who want to *ell
paper*. Oo down and see
them."
Two new* girls at Ihe Wash
ington'
' They are Mis* Dorothy Mor
gan and Mia* Kdna Small of
Ixi* Angel**," he added
It sounded queer, but It
proved a fact
They'll start Wedneaday
sellltig .Stars on the street. Just
Just as soon as the norm edi
tions begin rolling off the
presses and If you see them,
well, it's a safe bet you'll buy
some papers, all right.
When I got down to the
Washington Monday night, and
sent a note up to the young
ladles, the page retnrned with
the message "They'll see you
on the mezzanine floor."
Rather formal news girls
making their arrangements by
appointment at the Washing
ton anil on the mezzanine
floor.
There I met tlietn
Say - los Angeles Is the
Mecca for good looking young
ladles.
This pair comes from l/os
Angeles.
They're movie iictreases and
they're on their way to New
York, Just to win a bet with a
lot of other movie folks from
the Fox and husky camps.
Dorothy looked like severnl
million dollars, In furs, tailor
ed duds, and her friend. Miss
Small, well, I Judged her the
SEATTLE. WASH.. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 3. 1916.
best gowned woman In the
Washington dining room dur
ing lhe rush hour.
"You see." they started to
explain, both smiling, "we are
living frugally lthey had Juat
ordered truffles) Bnd want to
sell papers to rarn money
enough to gel to flpokane
It atlll sounded quite foolish
to me #
"Can't you see*" they both
asked at the aiuue time.
Then Ml*« Morgan Want Into
detail.
These pretty young girls are
selling newspai>«ra across the
continent to win an I*oo bet
with some rf the movie nien,
who declared that there
weren't any girls with the
pluck or the brains to get
from I.os Angeles to New
York, live comfortably, and
make all expenses on the wny
They presented credentials
and letters from I/O* Angeles
newspaper men. They have
given HWSV their automobiles,
sealed their hack account* and
started selling papers first
the l/oa Angeles Record.
They made njiough to get to
San Kramlsfo, and there sold
thp San Francisco News. Then
thev went to Portland, repeated
their venture. Now they are
In Seattle
"We have something like
♦ 1.20," stnlled Miss Small, "so
we must start selling Wednes
day."
Well, they are plucky little
girls. Pretty, too. ir you
should meet them tomorrow, he
kind to them Not "fresh";
tlicy won't like that. Traat
They and others said Turner was JUST A POLI
TICIAN. They left the convention, refusing to partici
pate in it because of the "roblwry."
But, in l'M'i we fiin I Hugh Todd as chairman of the
Turner meeting at the (irand theatre Monday noon
and Bridges, t otterill, Ryan, and others supporting him.
How is that possible?
Easy. The answer is PARTISANSHIP.
They are all democrats. Turner is the democratic
candidate. Forgotten is all else, and the cry is: "Vote
the party ti< k«'t straight. Forget F'l2. forget the 'hand
picking,' forget everything except that Turner is a demo
crat."
And. indeed, that is apparently Turner's slogan, too.
As territorial judge, Turner rendered a decision
which took away the right of women to vote, a right
they had until then enjoyed—and it was not until 20
years later that they regained it.
"I am for woman suffrage now," Turner said in his
"keynote" speech yesterday.
Naturally, also Turner it very, very strong for Wood
row Wilson now—and for prohibition.
Hut his tariff discussion takes the cake
As a democrat. Sen. Turner necessarily approves the
democratic measure the Underwood tariff bill.
As a politician, he add* that the CnderwtMxl tariff
law, however, should have had adequate tariffs on lum
ber and other Washington products.
THEN. STRANGE TO SAY, HE BLAMES SEN.
POINDEXTER BECAUSE HE FAVORS A RE-
TAFT AND T.R.
"TO EAT CROW"
DECLARE 'OEMS'
New YORK. Oct. 1.—o«
•pita all aorta qf rumora re
garding alipupa. tha proparty
man In charga of tha Daar
i. MftM and Oaar Hiaodara
drama ta ba atagad tonight at
tha Unlan Laague club. In
alatad today ha would ba abla
ta produca aoma pounda of
"a*-" and about 170 pounda
of hopa toba president at tha
club'a racaptlon ta Gav.
Hughaa tonight.
Ei President Taft confessed to
2*6 pound* upon striving hem to
day from New Haven. He Inula
fVirmw Pr« aidant Roosevelt by 66
imunda. Tha evening" s meeting
between Taft and Roosevelt will
In* the drat time they hava reach
ed speaking distance since 1914,
when they were coldly formal at
a funeral In New I lit en of a mu
tual friend
Referring to the love feaat aa a
crow entire rcnteat." Chairman
Mc-Cormlck of (he democratic cam
paign commit'en today took a fling
at Hughe 4 as the candidate of tha
hyphenate*
"I tni*t the people of New York
and the entire country will pay
particular attention.' 1 he said. "to
tha crow-eating content between
Taft and Roosevelt tonight. One
of the spectators will be Cha*
Kvana Hugh's.
"Possibly he will say something
al>out hi* friend, Jeremiah
of the American Truth society
While Mr. Htighe* may not know
lha gentleman, there I* no quea
tlon that Oi,eary I* a friend of
hi*. No one doubta any more that
Hughe* ha* accepted the candi
dacy of the hyphen* ilia alienee
on o'l<eary'a Insulting letter to
President Wilson prove* that "
VIOLENT FIGHT
IN BULGARIA IS
NOW GOING ON
bONDON. Oct. 3. —Bulgarian
forrea have, attacked the Rumanian
army that crossed the Itanube and
Invaded Bulgaria Sunday, and a
violent battle I* raging east of the
fortreaa of Ruatchuk.
An Amsterdam dispatch reporta
that the Rumanians forced a cross
Ins with little oppoaltlon. and
threw up strong entrenchmenta be
fore they were attacked. Rumanl
an monitor* first allencnd llulgar
lan ahore batterle*. and under cov
er of their fire the Invading force
wan landed
An official matement from the
Unitarian war office. dela>ed In
transmlsslon, derlnre<l that prepar
ation* have been made to attack the
Kumarilan force. The Invading
army la made up of "aeveral hattal
lons," the official atatement said
A Home wireless dispatch today
said It *a» reported from Petrograd
that Field Marshal Markrasen or
dered the evacuation of the l)o
--hrudja fortress of Slllstra and Tut
rakan after the Rumanians crossed
the Danube.
them as they deserve to be
treated these two ilttle movie
girls who have the courage and
Imagination to set out upon
th I a bl/.«rre and difficult ad
venture.
ONE CENT
Famous American Says Diplomats of
Allied Nations Hope to Send Him to
Napoleon's Prison on St. Helena I
(The writar of tha following aatoundlng revelations of "the prima Intention" of Anglo-Fr*n«li
diplomacy "aftar tha war" ia a famoua American college profaaaor and authoritative expert in
the dealings of international law. Ha juat returned to the United State* thla week, after an en
tire summer In London and Paris, where he waa in conatant communication with the hlgheat gov
ernment officials there. During thia time he was made acquainted with the propoeed "disposi
tion" of tha kalaer ef by tha allies, provided the alliea win tha great war. aa, of course,
they are now fully expecting to. Tha editor of this newspaper prints this amazing story simply aa
a piece of important news, and tt la to be considered In thia aspect alone by hia readera. That
the allies ARE dlacuasing these things as reported by this profeaaor, who Ineiata that ha remain
anonymoua. he has no doubt. For the reporter of these events ia a man above reproach.—Editor.)
NEW YORK, Oct. 3.—Are the allies preparing St. Helena for the kaiser of Ger
many—in the event they win the war, as they certainly believe they are
going to do? This is no fantastic question, asked for the sake of sensational-
KAISER WILHE.LM
personally, I will cite to you the public testimony of Dr. Benjamin Rand, philo
sophical librarian at, Harvard university, given on the dock at New York, after
(Continued on page 5)
100,000 WANT TO GO
OAGK TO THE UNO
WASHINGTON. Oct B.—The
high rout of living I* giving nn
added Impetus to l'" 1 lure of the
land. Members of the new farm
loan board drew this conclualon to
da* after ascertaining tlwt a ma
jority of their ion,(ton inquiries
have come from city dwellers who
want to get back to the land, thru
farm loan aid. The hoard plana to
help 'he city folk get there a*
well bh to help the man on the
nonpaylng farm.
KAISER ASKS U. S. AID?
ROME. Oct. :V A Swiss din
patch today asserted the kaiser
had pereonally appealed to Preil
ilent WiUon to end the war. but
that the president had refused to
lutaivcuo ut ihiij tiuiu.
VISION Ol< TDK UNDKKWOOD i.wv to that
l .l- FKf T.
Sen. Turner should know, if he doesn't, that Sen.
Poindexter consistently voted J"r tariff' on Washington
products, offered amendment- to that effect, and wa§
voted down by the democratic majority.
I urner an uses Poindexter of pledging himself to
re enact a Payne \ldm h lull and Turner knows that
Poindexter voted against the Payne-Aldrich bill and that
lie finally voted for the Underwood bill because it was
the only means to repeal the Payne Aldrieh bill.
I hen, grow ing demagogic, he declare*-:
"I have stated heretofore that our Washington in
dustries were overlooked in the law, but a more careful
examination of the record, shows that they were de
liberately sacrificed thrown as a snj, t<> Cerberus by
my distinguished friend, Sen. Poindexter."
I >etna|{ogic I
Demagogic because there is not a single vote cast
by Sen. Poindexter which Turner lias challenged—or can
challenge. The Congressional Record i- easy of access.
W hat specific vote would Turner have changed if he had
been senator in place of Poindexter? Senators Jones and
Poindexter voted alike on Washington good#. Docs
'I urner charge Jones with "sacrificing" the state, too?
And this tariff talk on the part of Sen. Turner, who
"approves the Underwood law," is nothing but bun
combe and accentuates the impression that he is JUST A
POLITICIAN.
• H *|V< ***»
KffTf «TA*n«. %m
BY A FAMOUS AMERICAN PROFESSOR
ism, and based merely on wartime rumors. Instead it is an
outgrowth of the MAJOR TOPIC of certain grim delibera
tions now taking place in the entente capitals of Europe.
I KNOW it is the major topic, the "prime intention"
of the big men of the allies, fir the sole and simple reason
that I heard them DISCUSSING it myself!
And the question in high circles of London and
France now is not so much whether or not the allies can
wreak vengeance on the kaiser IN PERSON. It is simply
WHAT this punishment shall be!
You do not have to take my word alone on this: ask
any man, with access to the first European circles—any
such man who has traveled recently in England and France,
and he will tell vou the same: THAT A TREMENDOUS
PERSONAL DRAMA THAI* WILL STARTLE THE
WORLD IS CERTAINLY GOING TO ACCOMPANY THE
DENOUEMENT OF THE WAR!
Of this I am positive—that in those final negotiations
when the fate of nations, th? happiness of the whole peo
ples, are at stake, so fiery a d r ama will involve, in some
measure, at least, the house of Hohenzollern, that it will ob
scure in the eyes of the worli all those other questions—
questions of frontiers, of indemnities and the like! For
granting that the allies will have any debatable rights at the
war's end, the discussion of the fate of Emperor William,
like that of Achilles, Caesar nd Napoleon, is bound to go
down into history as one .so engrossing to the popular mind
that it eclipses in interest th? world-events in which he
played a part!
Merely as some tangible proof of the widespread ex
istence of this grim determination on the part of the allies, of
England in particular, to mete out a dire fate to the kaiser
NO RESUMPTION OF
SUB WAR IN SIGHT
RERUN, Oct. 3.—Efforts of the
Von Tlrpltz party to force a re
sumption of submarine warfare
will be defeated as the r< suit of
the conference# now being held In
secret sessions of the relrhstag
committee, U Is now generally be
lieved
The Tlrpltlites. however, hope to
force a public discussion of the
whole question w hen the relchstag
leconvenesi Thursday.
BULGARIANS RETREAT
MERLIN. Ma Wireless to Say
vlll-, Oct. 3. ItuUnrUn troops
have been compelled to rot rent on
both wings in Macedonia, It was
admitted In an official statement
from the llulgHiiiiu war office to
ilaj.
JUST A I'OLITK IAN '
NIGHT EDITION
HOY 8. (JET THAT OVERCOAT OUT. FRIEND
GEORGE. THE WEATHER MAN. HAS PUSHED THE
FHOBT BUTTON* TODAY, AND THIS SOUUO
QIIZES TONIGHT AND WEDNESDAY. FAIR;
LIGHT FROST TONIGHT."
"Mr. Pratt"
is the name of a novel by
Joseph Lincoln. which
will surely amuse you if
you are interested in
quaint human nature. He
is a product of the Cape
Cod region—we mean
Mr. Pratt, and he's a
good-natured old fellow
to know.
So be sure. Monday, to read
the first installment in
The Star. * 'Vt jSI
Starts Monday /
Ends Saturday
