rrnTor Ten tdatdtdtgv BA (T TT V nnMT
Ji 11.-11 IlU JlJPjfilJLvLJi- f JLXAL1L ilJUL JIlLXYJlJJ-i
PHICE, OXK CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 170.
BAWtE, VKKMOXT, TU
VY, OCTOI1EK 3, 101G.
NEW INVASION
OF BULGARIA
The Rumanian Army Has
Crossed the Danube, It
Is Admitted
BULGARIANS PLAN TO
RESIST ADVANCE
of Dobrinlja, has ordered the evacuation
of tlii Danube fortresses of Kilistria and
Turtukal, recently occupied by thti Tpu
ton, Bulgarian rul Turkish I'nwi, says
a despatch from Knmn to the Wireless
Press.
The reason given for the withdrawal of
Von Mackcnsen's force In that the. Or
man commander In in danger of being en
veloped by the, Russian and Rumanian
troops which havo crossed the Danube
between Kustehuk and Turtukal.
CORPORAL CAPTURED 22.
Sofia Declares "Several Bat
talions" Crossed the
River in Boats
Sofia, Monday, via London, Oct. 3.
The number of Rumanians who have in
vaded Bulgaria is placed at several bat
talions by the Bulgarian war office. The
war office statement, announcing the pas
sage of the Danube by the invaders,
says: "On the Danube, near Lianeo, be
tween RiiBtchuk and Turtukai, the en
emy conveyed to our banks in boats sev
eral battalions. Measures have been
taken to attack this force."
Bucharest, via London, Oct. 3. Ruma
nian troops havo crossed the Danube riv
er and invaded Bulgarian territory, ac
cording to the official communication is
sued yesterday. The river was crossed
between Rustehuk and Turtukai, the
latter place being where the river leaves
Bulgarian territory and flows northeast
through Rumania. The statement says:
"On the north and northwestern fronts
fighting continues. In the mountains at
Ghurgill and lerghitzel we captured four
machine guns and made prisoner of 11
officers and 500 men.
"Southern front Our troops crossed
the Danube between Rustehuk and Tur
tukai.
"In Dobrudja we attacked along the(;erman rifle each of which he emptied
Canadian's Feat on Somme Related in
Some Detail.
Ottawa, Ont., Oct. 3. A talo of a cor
poral in an eastern Ontario battalion of
the Canadian forces in France who, sin
gle-handed, charged a party of 22 ad
Mincing Germans and killed or wounded
all except one, whom he captured, is re
lated by the official Canadian "eye-wit
ness" in u despatch received yesterday.
"As a result of further severe fighting
the Canadians have captured several im
Portant German positions and have ad
vsnced their own line upon a frontage
of nearly two miles to a maximum depth
of 000 yards," said the despatch. "The
Germans have fought hard and their re
sistance has been formidable.
"We have, in this fighting, advanced in
close co-operation with the British troops
on either flank. Despite the enemy's re
sistance we have, except for temporary
and local net-backs, secured all our ob
jectives and inflicted severe losses upon
the Germans.
"Our artillery support has been mag
nificent. By the sheer weight of metal
which the gunners have hurled upon the
Germans thev have made it humanly
possible for the infantry to come into
close contact with the enemy. When
this has occurred there has never been
any question of the result. Time and
time again our bayonet men have rushed
an enemy trench and have killed or cap
tured the entire garrison.
"In the course of all this desperate
fighting there have been innumerable in
stances of the most courageous and de
voted actions.
"The case of a corporal of an eastern
Ontario battalion is one of the most ex
traordinary ever recorded. The battal
ion had successfully captured a line of
German trenches when a party of the en
emy, consisting of two officers and about
20 men, began a counter-attack.
"The corporal advanced alone against
the whole party, emptied his revolver,
picked up first one and then another
AN OVERTURN
IN JAPAN
Count Okuma Is to Quit the
Cabinet to Make Way
for Bolder Man
MEMBER OF OLD FAMILY DIED.
VISCOUNT KATO
POSSIBLE SUCCESSOR
Okuma's National Policy Is
Thought to Be Too
Mild
Tokio, Oct. 3. The newspaper Nichi
Nichi Shimbun, in an extra edition, an
nounced that the cabinet of Premier
Count Okuma has decided to resign. The
premier is said to have stated that he
would recommend to the emperor the ap
pointment of Viscount Takaski Kato as
his successor.
The Okuma cabinet was formed in Au
gust last year. Its resignation has been
expected for several months. The pre
mier's advanced age, 7S years, has been
given as a reason for his decision to re
ign although it had also been intimated
that he would withdraw to make way for
a man of a bolder national policy.
WINDSOR MAN KILLED
WHEN AUTO HIT TREE
W. H. Case the Victim and Two Compan
ions Were Injured Only Slightly in
Accident Near Ascutneyville.
whole front and repulsed the enemy on
his center and right flank.
GERMANS CHECKED
NEAR RANCOURT
Violent Effort at Counter-Attack Was
Throttled By French Curtain of
Fire and Machine Guns.
Paris, Oct. 3. Violent fighting has
been in progress on the Somme front
north of Rancourt, the war office an
nounced to-day. The French curtain of
fire and machine guns, however, were ef
fective in checking the German attempts
to debouch from the St. Pierre Vaast
wood in this region.
Serbians fighting in the Kaimakc;hin
regiou on the Macedonian front made
further progress, according to the' war
office, taking the first line of trenches
from the Bulgarians and capturing an
other battery. Bulgarian attacks on
British positions on the left bank of the
Struma were repulsed, the Bulgarians
sustaining heavy losses.
accounting for the two officers and 1(5 of
the men. While he was shooting, one of
the officers attacked him with a bayonet
and pierced him in the leg below the
knee, but the corporal shot him dead.
The rest of the enemy attempted to es
cape. The corporal shot four of them
and made the fifth a prisoner. Although
wounded in two places, he remained in
the trenches until his battalion was relieved."
FARMERS GET COMMISSION.
GERMANS FORCED
BACK TO TRENCHES
Attacked Russians South of Dvinsk But
Were Defeated By Intense De
fensive Fire.
Pctrograd, via London, Oct. 3. The
German forces have taken, the offensive
south of Dvinsk, attacking the Russian
lines in force near Novo Alexandrovsk,
the war office announced to-day. They
were met by an intense defensive fire
from Russian guns, however, and forced
back to their positions, the official state
ment declares.
In the region west of Lutsk the Rus
sians have scored advances in stubborn
righting. In the Zlota Lipa district and
along other sectors of the front in Gali
cia fighting of desperate character is eon
tinuing, neither side scoring any marked
advantage. Jn one sector the Russians
took more than 1,000 prisoners yester
day and the total taken in the region m
the fighting since Friday, last, is report
ed to be more than 3,000.
INTERVENTION PARTY
FORMED IN GREECE
Former Premier Counaris Is Said to Be
Meets with Favorable Reception
in His Efforts.
Parish Oct. 3. A new political party,
favoring intervention in the war on the
side of the allies, is being formed in
Greece by former Premier Demetrios
Counaris, according to an Athens de
spatch to the llavas agency. The de
patch says the movement is meeting with
a favorable reception.
British Lost aeroplane.
In Attack on German Airship Sheds
Neat Brussels.
London, Oct. 3. British naval aero
planes yesterday made another attack
on German airship sheds in the vicinity
of Brussels, according to a British offi
cial statement this afternoon. Chie of
the British aeroplanes was lost.
VON MACKENSEN GIVES
UP TWO FORTRESSES
Leader of Central Allies Is in Danger of
Being Enveloped By Russian and
Rumanian Troops.
Over the Price to Be Paid Them for
Milk.
Boston, Oct. 33. Concessions by sev
eral contractors in the controversy over
the price of milk at wholesale were
laimed last night by Richard Pattee,
secretary of the New England Producers'
association. A telegram to Mr. Pattee
from R. D. Hunter, a milk producer at
Claremont, N. H., announced that one
largo Boston contractor and two subur
ban dealers had agreed to pay 50 cents
for an 83 quart can delivered in Bos
ton, instead of 47 cents as previously
offered by contractors.
Mr. Pattee also said be had received
a telephone message last night from a
meeting of farmers at Springfield, Vt., to
the effect that the same two suburban
dealers and one other had agreed to pay
the price asked by the producers. Offi
cials of these companies were out of
town last night and could not be reached
to confirm the news received by Mr.
Patee.
Dr. Nelson C. Davis of H. P. Hood
fc Sons, contractors, said:
"Not only have we enough milk to
supply our customers, but we are con
densing between 5,000 and 10,000 quarts
of milk a day at Newport, Vt. On Mr.
Pattee s promise to sell the milk tor
them some of our farmers between Con
cord, N. II., and White River Junction,
Vt., and in the vicinity of Gorham, Me.,
decided not to sell their milk to us be
ginning Oct. I. They have now been
waiting for two days for Sir. 1'attee to
take their milk.
"Wo have reports from every district
and our producers have delivered more
milk at our country receiving stations
Monday than they did Sunday.
We shall have enough milk to supply
our customers to-morrow and every oth
er day. Our farmers know we have of
feredthe highest price the market will
warrant."
Windsor, Oct. 3. YV. II . Case of this
place was killed almost instantly, and
W. H. Tuxhury and A. Fullerton Phillips
escaped with minor injuries when an au
tomobile in which they were riding left
the highway near Ascutncy ville and
crashed into a tree last evening. Mr.
rhillip sustained bruit.es and a cut ar
tery, while Mr. Tuxhury was merely
bruised. The last -named was the owner
and driver of the machine. The car was
but slightly damaged and was driven into
mdsor on its own power.
At the time the accident occurred, the
men were returning from Lake Sunapee,
where they had been in camp for several
days. They were proceeding at a fair
rate of speed when they suddenly came
upon a bad piece of road where extensive
repairs were being made. It is believed
by those who visited the scene and looked
over the ground that the car fnust liRvej
slewed on the bad road, at which time!
Mr. Tuxhury was unable to control it, i
and the collision with the tree resulted.
The car did not overturn.
Just how Mr. Case met his death was
not learned, although he is said to have
bi-en terribly bruised all over his body.
The body was taken to Windsor as soon
as help could bo. summoned. Mr. Case
was a man well along in years and had
been for the last 2" years the night
guard at the Vermont state prison in
Windsor.
George E. C. Wheaton's Great-Urand
father Cam to Barra in 1797.
George K. C. Wheaton, one of the older
native residents of Ilnrru, anil a great
grandson of John Whcaton, the first of
that family name to settle In Barre, died
at his home, 12 Kinney street, last niht
at 11 o'clock, the end following a week's
illness. Death was due to a hemorrhage
Mr. Wheaton is survived bv his wife:
his daughter, Mrs. Klmer K. Owen of
Harre Town; his sister, Mrs. Allie Reed,
who live on French street; by three
grandchildren, Lena E. Owen,' Georgr W.
Owen, Mauley K. Owen, and other rela
tives.
The deceased was born on the ances
tral Wheaton farm, Cobble hill, Aug. 10,
Ifitl, the son of Krastus Wheaton and
Nancy (ClHrk) Wheaton. His was an
ancestry prominent among the little
group of men and women who were pio
neers in Harre. His great grand father,
John Wheaton, and his great-grandmoth
er, Phcr-bo (Hubbard) Wheaton, came to
Harre in 1707 from Leicester, Mass., and
settled on an east hill farm which con
tained 100 acres. George E. C. Wheaton
was later to occupy the old homestead
for the better part of a half-century. He
was educated in the town nchools and at
Barre academy and after his marriage,
Jan. 1. lHlin, to Miss Alice M. Kinney, he
took up his residence on the home farm.
Mr. Wheaton like, manv of his predeces
sors of that name, held several town of
fices and took an active interest in .town
affairs. Two years ago Mr. and Mrs.
Wheaton moved to this city and last
January they observed their 50th wed
ding anniversary.
Mr. Wheaton was a member of the
Cobble Hill grange and when his health
permitted he was a constant attendant
at the Congregational church. He had a
gentle mariner with children and was
greatly loved by the little people of his
neighborhood.
Funeral service will be held at the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. J. W. Harnett of the Congregational
church officiating. Interment will be in
the family lot in Elm wood cemetery.
DEATH OF MURDOCK PATERSON.
OFFICIALS ON TRIAL
In Cases Growing Out of Riot at Haver
hill Mass.
HaverhillWass., Oct. 3. -Mayor Albert
L. Bartlett and four members of the
board of aldermen were urraigned in su
perior court at Salem to-day. together
with four other residents of this city, on
indictments growing out of a riot here
last April. The disturbance accompanied
an attempt by Thomas K. I.eyden to
speak on religious subjects. The city of
ficials are charged with neglect to sup
press unlawful assembly and the others
in taking part in an unlawful assembly
or disturbing the peace. All pleaded not
guilty and were held lor trial to-day.
He Had Been a Resident of Barre for 29
Years.
The death of Murdock Paterson, a na
tive of Scotland, occurred at his home,
7 Highland avenue, Monday evening at
8:15 o'clock. Mr. Paterson had been ill
of tuberculosis for several months and
last winter his declining health was
weakened by an attack of the grip. He
leaves his wife; a daughter. Miss Mary
Paterson,, and a son, Harold Paterson.
jliis brothers and sisters died in infancy
.Mr. I'aterson was born in Aberdeen,
Sept. 6, 1S."!), and as a young man he
learned the granitecutter's trade in Scot
land. He came to America 34 years ago
and was employed for a time in Roches
ter, Me. loiter he worked in Michigan
and New Hampshire, coming to Barre 29
years ago. His marriage to Ella Far
rand took place in this city Dec. 4, 18!.
For sev-iral years m vvas in the" employ
A Marr & Gordon and thereafter for
a long term of service by McDonald &
Ittiehan. His mother. Mrs. Edward Pat
erson, died in Barre Oct. 23, Hill, and his
father passed away 2ft years ago while
making ifls home with his son. Air. Pat
erson was a member of the Methodist
church and belonged to Clan Gordon, No.
12, O. S. C.
The funeral will be held at the house
Wednesday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock,
Rev. B. G. Lipsky of the Wedding Meth
odist church officiating. Burial will be
made in the family lot in Klmwood cem-!
cterv.
PASSENGER
HIT IN EAR
By Bullet Fired at a Third
Avenue Elevated Train
in New York
POLICE GUARDS OFF,
TRAINS ATTACKED
Tacit Admission Is Made of
Failure of Sympa
thetic Strike
New York, Oct. 3. Shortly after the
announcement had been made that the
police guards who have guarded elevated
trains since the carmen's strike was in
augurated, were to be removed, three
trains were attacked to-day. A bullet
fired at a Third avenue elevated train
clipped a piece from a passenger's ear.
Tacit admission of the failure of the
general sympathetic" strike in behalf
of the striking carmen was made in a re
port late yebterday to a conference of
lahor leaders which discussed the general
situation. The leaders recommended that
every union member in the city be as
sessed $1 for the benefit of the subway,
levated and surface ear employes who
are on strike in Manhattan, the Bronx
and parts of Westchester county.
No decision as to further efforts to
call out all unionists in sympathy with
the strikers was taken and there was
no formal admission that the strike plan
had collapsed.
In its report to the meeting the gen
eral strike committee said:
The committee still believes in the
sincerity of the assurance given by rep
resentatives of important unions. It is
our opinion that the rank and file of la
bor is in full svmathy with the street
carmen in their fight to maintain their
rights under the agreement of August 6
and 7 underwritten by the mayor and
the chairman of. the public service com
mission which if lived up to bv the trac
tion companies of New York would have
prevented the strike and general indus
trial unrest.
"Organized labor did want to help the
street carmen provided a definite plan
had been decided and agreed upon."
The report declared the introduction of
individual contracts by the lnterborough
Rapid Transit company was an attack on
trade unionism.
Police headquarters announced that a
canvass made by policemen showed that
only 408 men had. responded to the call
for a general strike.
More than lOO.ots) members of the
I'nited Hebrew trades returned to work
after their three-day holiday as did 3HK)
brewery workers.
PUT SOLDIERS' NAMES
ON GRANITE TABLETS
la Proposition Considered By City Coun
cil Last Evening Among Other Mat
ters of Somewhat Lesser
Nature.
In the restful afterglow of the Bum
mer's labor in the public works depart
ment the city council M turning to less
conspicuous but more patriotic endeav
ors. Only four aldermen and the mayor
were present at the session last evening
and in the absence of more momentous
matters official scrutiny, glued those
busy months on the budget and the pay
roll, reverted to the granite slabs that
flank the main entrance to city hall.
More than one council has set itself
sternly to the task of carrying out the
original purpose of the polished slabs by
inscribing them with the names of the
men of Harre who served in the war be
tween the states. A often as the at
tempt has lcen made to complete the
memorial, something has occurred to
balk the plans. With the closed season
for spending money just around the cor
ner, the slabs are going to get their per
ennial share of attention.
It remained for Douglas Roben to re
mind the council of the neglected memo
rial. Mr. Roben has a portable gas en
gine, compressor and pneumatic device
that may be used handily if the letter
ing is to be done and on the eve of dis
posing of the device, he offers to let the
city use it on the slabs. Everyone
seemed to think that the completion of
the task will mean quite a rotable
achievement for the administration and
to the end that the granite may not go
down to posterity barren of inscription,
Mayor Gordon w as empowered to .head a
committee of his own choosing and au
thorize the inscribing, after consulting
the opinion of those who are concerned
in the work. It was explained that pre
vious doliivA b:id resulted from a dis-
THREE VERDICTS
ARE AFFIRMED
And Two Reversed in Sin
preme Court Opin- -ions
To-day
DEAVITT WON HIS
SUIT WITH CORRYj
The Reading of the Docket
Showed 37 Cases Set
for Hearing
Three judgments of th' v-' .t court werrf
affirmed and two wer v rsed in opin
ions handed down '.V -rmont sunrcnHi
court, the Octob m of which con
vrned at Mont-v this forenoon at 1(1
o'clock. In v ..tdisofi county case of
Joseph H. (V" vs. the Western Union
Co., an action for trespass, the lower
court verdict for the defendant was af
firmed in an opinion handed down by
Judge Ha.selton. In the Rutland county
case of (Jeorge C. Underbill, receiver for
the Columbian Marble Co., vs. Rutland
Railroad Co., the lower court verdict or
dercd for the defendant was reversed and
the cause was remanded; opinion by
Chief Justice Munson. In the Washing
ton county case of F.dward H. Deavitt
vs. F. M. Corry, the judgment of the
lower court for the plaintiff was affirmed
in an opinion by Judge Watson.
In the Caledonia county case of Wil
agreement over the proposal to inscribe j i;am j .Cross Vs. Pa ssnmihiie Fibre Iath
the names of soldier without the coin-Pr c0 thp verdict of the lower court fof
WOMAN HEAVILY FINED.
PLAINFIELD TEL. EXCHANGE
MILK FAMINE THREATENED.
Receipts in New York City To-day Great
ly Decreased.
Toll Rate from Barre and Montpelier
Will Be 10 Cents.
A new exchange of the Vermont Tel.
& Tel. Co.. has been opened at Plain
field, with Henry C. Batchelder as agent.
A thirty line village swit.chbor.rd has
been installed in the new central office in
the Bruffee block with six trunk, four
paystation and sixteen subscribers' lines
connected, the exchange starting with
42 stations.
A very small development in the num
ber of telephones installed in the town
of Plaintield has been possible in the
past by reason of the company's inabil
ity to connect the telephones iu- that
town with either Harre or Montpelier,
except for a limited few, on account of
the length of line involved. By the in
stallation of a local exchange to provide
for telephone subscribers in this vicinity
New York, Oct. 3.-Greatly decreased is "pelted that facilities will be af
WITH CANADIAN ARMY.
Harry Martin, Formerly of Montgomery
Center, Goes to France.
Montgomery CenteV, Oct. 3. A letter
received from Harry Martin, formerly, of
this place, now with the Canadian volun
teer army, tells of his arrival in England
and his expectation of entering France
soon. For some years Mr. Martin trav
eled for a drug firm in Ontario and his
duties in the army will have to do with
the handling of drugs in hospitals.
receipts of milk to-day brought New
lork to a realization of the serioiisnes
forded for an increased number of patrons
to secure adequate telephone service. The
of a possible milk famine. Nor was there if1'1 rttto to tl,e new ""'""Id exchange
t i : in . t.
m iv vrnio.
any indication of a break in th' dead'
lock between the distributors and tann
ers over prices. Big companies admitted
that approximately only half their usual
supply received to-day, and part of that
came from long di-tances. One express
shipment came from Boston. Hospitals
and children are being looked after by
the distributors and so far no complaint
of serious shortage has come from any
large institutions. Consumers are cau
tioned to conserve the supply as far
as possible.
H0LLENBACK JOHNSON.
TALK OF THE TOWN
HENRY FORD SEES WILSON.
London, Oct. 3. Field Marshal Von
Mackensen, who commands the forces of
the central allies operating gaint the
llumanians and Ru'tians in the province flared golf.
Tells President at Shadow Lawn that He
is Supporting Him for Re-Election.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 3. Henrv
Ford, automobile manufacturer and peace
advocate, reiterated to President Wilson
at a conference at Shadow I-aun yes
terday that he was supporting him for
re-election, although a Republican in the
past. Mr. Ford spent several hours with
President Wilson and took lunch with
him.
Postmaster-General Burleson, a caller
at the eiecutive office vesterday, de
clared he had been convinced by straw
ballots and letters from all parts of the
country that there was a strong under
current for Mr. Wilson, which was grow
ing in volume.
The president wss up before 6 o'clock
yesterday morning working on corres
pondence, and from 8 to 10 o'clock he
Wedding Took Place at Home of Groom's
Parents in South Barre.
At the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Hol
lenback of South Barre last evening was
solemnized the wedding of their son',
John B. Hollenback, and Miss Kleanor
Johnson of New York City. The cere
mony was performed bv Rev. J. V. Bar-
nett of the Congregational church. The
(best man was Dr. W. M, Kelty of Haver
hill. Mass.. and the Bridesmaid, Mrs.
Walter M. Kelty of Haverhill.
Many beautiful gifts were received,
among which was a chest of silver of 100
Barre, Barre's public buildings, Barre
from a birdseye view and Barre from
every angle, lutrre s nre department in flinrt,g from the cmploves of the National
action and Barre s crowded, busy thor- Al.nlP Machine Co .of Windsor .where the
oughfares. Barre's granite industry. Iast!proon, M Pmplved. The happy couple
but not least, will be filmed to-morrow , ,eft f(,r (np'l0 fontreal and other
Julia May Shipman Guyer Convicted of
Keeping Disorderly House.
A fine of $loO anil costs aggregating
$."iS.52 was imposed on Julia Mae Ship
man Guyer in city court late yesterday
afternoon after the jury, having consid
ered the evidence supporting the charge
that she conducted a house of ill fame,
reported a verdict of guilty. The hear
ing wa-s started before Magistrate H. W.
Scott at 2:30 o clock and the lurv re
turned at 6 o'clock, a half-hour after it
received the case. Grand Juror William
Wishart was the prosecutor and the
woman was represented by Hoar 4 Fay.
Eleven witnesses were examined. Nu
merous exceptions were taken and after
sentence had been passed counsel for Jlrs.
Guver announced that an appeal would
be taken to supreme court. After the?
woman had been remanded to the county
jail for safe keeping, however, her friends
intimated that they were raising money
to pay the fine.
Testimony of a nature rather startling
came out during the case, which was con-
tentiouslv argued on both sides. The
evidence tended to show that a number
of women were accustomed to frequent
Mrs. Guyer s house on River street. One
of the witnesses. Mrs. George Wilfore,
made an entirely unconventional retort
when ordered by the court to answer
questions asked by the grand juror and
when she failed to display any penitence
whatsoever over her conduct, she was
sentenced to serve 10 days in jail for
contempt. She was removed to Montpe
lier last night. Other witnesses were:
Frank I.aeroix and Tim Casey of Mont
pelier, Mrs. Joseph Bennett, Mrs. Krnest
Parkhurst, Mrs. Carrie Drew, Mrs. Cera
Somerville. John Hussey. and Hairy Da
vidson, Chief Sinclair and Officer J. W.
Dineen.
W. A. Perrv was foreman of the jury
and the remainder of the panel was made
up as follows: George F. Howe. J. S.
Howell. J. P. Corkie. Charles Olliver.
William Blackmore, B. Lucchina, Warren
J. Cummings, C A. Lundgren, C. K. W.
Reid, H. C. Iconard and Silvio L. Cardi.
HURT ON QUARRY.
T t arnmin kaiiv sirrrik kits inn a f tto mr. . - . ...
-..,....... a "... .... . t points. atir hirn tnov wu reside in?... k,, .i
Frank McPherson Brought to the City
HospitaL
Frank McPherson, aged 26, of Granite-
ville is at the City hospital with several
panics and regiments to which they were
attached. Plans for the work lagged
when it developed that the slabs are not
large enough to bear the lengthy inscrip
tions desired by some.
The trenchant pen or a sharply keyed
typewriter of an attache in the ofiice of
the city judge was called into play when
she indited a letter to the council claim
ing restitution for the loss of a sweater
which disappeared from the court room
on the niarht of Sept. in. The aggrieved
person laid the disappearance indirectly
up to Alderman Bruce, who, she. alleged.
unlocked the door and gave a company of
thespians the right to use the courtroom
wherein the garment, valued at $8. was
suspended on a hook. Deponent further
stated that Alderman Bruce, "had no bus
iness to open the courtroom, as he is not
even a member of the property commit
tee," and offered to furni-h witnesses to
corroborate her claim. Due notice of the
alderman's intentions waa not served on
habitues of the court, it was said, and in
closing the correspondent suggested that
additional costs would be averted by pay
ingthe -enclosed bill for $S.
A motion authorizing Alderman Bruce
to investigate and bring in a written re
port was not seconded. In the absence of
the member from ward 0, Alderman
Glysson buckled on his armor in defense
and was for deferring action until he
could be given an opportun.ty to explain.
A third motion instructing the property
committee to investigate and report
found the council divided and Alderman
Healv asked for the veas and nays. The
motion carried with Aldermen Glysson
and Rossi supporting and Aldermen Rey
nolds and Healv. the mayor breaking the
deadlock. Legislation of this kind made
such fatiguing demands on the strength
of the councillors that adjournment was
taken a few moments later.
Chairman Glysson of the street com
mittee reported an offer made by Karl
Parker to sell a portion of the Bank
street gravel bank for $1,000. Samples
of the gravel, Mr. Glysson continued, had
been submitted to the city engineer for
analysis and more information concern
ing the quality of the gravel will be at
hand later. Action' was postponed.
Building permits granted on the favor
able recommendation of the inspector are
as follows: Mrs. George Stuart, to cover
a roof at 31 Spaulding street; Joseph
Oino, to erect a silo on Willey street;
Mrs. C. K. Bolster, to repair a stoncshed
and office on Granite street; Dessureau
& Co., to build a stoneshed addition on
Center street. Wiring permits were
granted on the follow ing applications, re
ports having been entered bv me inspec
tor: Ci. W. Mann, lights for Willev street
tenement; M. N. Herna-com. lights at 2
Cambria street; Howhind Bros. A Cave.
to change entrance wires in business
building; James Sullivan, t install porch
lights on Brooklyn street; Vermont Tel.
& Tel. Co., to change entrance wire,
Howland block; Montpelier i Barre
Lighting Jt Power Co., to install eight
meters. A. J. (iuthrie was given permis
sion to transfer his restaurant license to
Mrs. John Forbes.
A resolution appropriating ?."(0 to the
account of salaries was read and passed
to its second reading.
the plaintiff to recover $4,800 was re
versed and the cause was remanded on
the question of liability only, the award
not being involved. Opinion by Judge
Powers. In the Orleans county case of
William H. Blaisdell vs. Hayden A. Mc
Clary the lower court verdict in favor o(
the plaintiff was affirmed and the causa
ordered remanded. Opinion by Judgn
Taylor.
The reading of the trial calendar
showed 37 cases set for hearing. The
folowing entries w-ere made :
Caledonia county: Jennie M. McLeod
vs. Albert A. Daniels, settled; Herman
V.. Webster and Sherbnrn:' Lang vs. Lii
ther D. Harris, continued: Continental
Jewelry Co. vs. estate of David Fre
chette, continued; George M. Gray vs.
Gilbert H. Williams et al., continued;
state vs. William Nagle, assault with in
tent to kill, exceptions waived (the pris
oner has served part of sentence and has
been released); state vs. Joseph Pilver,
selling, continued.
Orange county:- State vs. Dan Nelson
burglary, continued.
Windham county: Ethel E. Cutler vs, '
Martin A. Doolittle, continued; state vs
Hirsh, aiding and promoting a lottery(
exceptions waived by the state and judg
ment affirmod; state vs. Henry Boyd,
breach of the peace, continued.
Chittenden county: Eticnna Latulip
vs. city of Burlington, negligence, discoid
tinned: Old Beehive vs. Rauman A Sper
ling, continued; Annie Auclair vs. Fred
Bushev, continued; W. U. Tel. Co. vs,
John E. Lavell, continued; J. H. May vs,
F. E. Pope, continued: Porter Screen
.Manufacturing Co. vs. Central Vermont
Railway Co., negligence, continued.
Franklin county: State vs. Frank E,
Kemis. misentry.
Orleans county: William H. Blaisdell
Hayden A. McClary, entered by mis
take; H. L. Whiteomb vs. F. A. Earns
worth, decree affirmed.
Windsor county: Mary W. O'Connor:
vs. Charles F. Guild, continued.
Washington county: Dennis Pocketdl
vs. George H. .Almon and wife, settled
and discontinued.
There were between 40 and 50 attor
neys present at the opening of the ternu
CLOSING UP CIVIL CASES.
Bills Ordered Paid.
Barre's contribution to the stiite high
way and school taxe in !lti total 0.-
Washington County Court Has Beer)
Making Rapid Progress.
The plaintiff in the case of Harry H
Martin vs. George I. LeBarr rested lata
i yesterday afternoon in county court and
this forenoon the defendant commenced
introducing evidence. The case is an ac
tion for trespass. The defendant has
already paid into the court as damage
and costs to date the sum of $160.65. A
recess was taken at 10 o'clock this fore
noon to allow Judge Fish and the attor
neys participating in the case to attend
supreme court, the October term of which
opened at 10 o'clock.
The jury in the Martin-LeBarr eaei
follows: N. H. Hill of Fayston. J. P. Hut
ton of Cabot. II. W. Davis of Northfleld,
George J. Long of Warren, W. E. Hay
ford of Last Montpelier, J. H. Smaill ot
Fayston. W. C. Mann of Waitsfield, Ed
Frost- of Middlesex. J. F. Maloney ox
Roxhurv. F. B. Kendall of Roxbury and:
G. H. Kmery of Barre City.
In the case of Simeon Swerdteger vs,
Edgar Taft. eupersedeas. Judge Fish has
70S. II, according to the warrant present- sustained tne pennon oi ,-eruegri
ed bv' the city 'treasurer. The warrant, j counsel. J. Ward Carver, and the case
in favor of State Treasurer W. F. Scott, 'will probably be tried some time thi
was' approved along with the following: j week. Court ha proceeded rapidly the
N. J. Roberts. J70.J7. printing. a-csMiig j past three weeks and it is probable tha
taxes water health, police and election jonlv a few civil cases remain to be tried
accounts; C. W. Averill & Co., j bv jury. The state cases will be taken
supplies, street, city building and fire!p next and then the chancery cases an I
accounts': c-itv treasurer. ?14.7. cah jolliers set with the court for hearing.
nai l out nn street Mipcnntendent or
a comminuted fracture of the right arm
u - c :: : - t i. ,
as tne resun oi injuries wmcn oe received
chants association, tne mamtlaeturers Ui,pir ,.. home in Windsor
association, the quarry owners' associa
tion and the Board of Trade are to bavej -
a film of their own which will preserve NEW VERMONT CORPORATIONS.
frr nnwfpritv t Bi'unot (n Ha falron v I
the cinematograph man. The Town i w.,rf, Witii, Te.!is ,,naWp . t0 PUin the n't,,r pf
-ilm Co. of New York, which is . " . . - - , ,7 ; ' accident, hut his co workers at the q
at the WetmoreA. Morae quarry in Web- , m1 rr!,air. .,.er prating,
sterville this forenoon. The injured man Mirf.1(.(. eveT account-.; A. J.
is unable to explain the nature of the ' s.;i s. snn!ie and rensirs.
Country Film
engaged in making the pictures in Barre
and Barre Town, w ill do the work under
the direction of the manager. Jm-k Eaton.
with Mr.- Von Hoffman at the crank.
Barre people are reque-ted ft be out in
numbers Wednesday afternoon at 2:SO.
especially on North Main street. Auto
is & Blanchatd Co. of Burlington.
Articles of association lmve been
formed by the following corporations:
quar
ry say it occurred when he was attempt
ing to unfasten a derrick hook which had
become caught on a guv rope. Apparent-
Edwards & Edwards of Waterburv, withi'y thp hook n1 hain. weighing many
canital -to. k of ?10.0Ul divided into iftO'P 'unds. fell from the guy wire unexpect
share, with th.-e incorporator. : R. .I.iedly and stunned the man by striking
Edwards. W. K. Kdwards and L. J. ;ar-
owners are asked to park their cars along ' ney, all of Waterburv.
the business section ami just before the) Lew is A itlanchard to. of Hurlington.
films are begun, a bugler will announce j boot and hoe; capit-" stock fcj.i.ixxl.
the filming to the crow.I. Manager John divided into 2.V) shares, with the follow-
Kam of the Park theatre has generous- Sing incorporators): E. A. Itlanchard. llrl-
ly lent his assistance to the four organ-'en I- Blanchard. Jennie K. Lewis and employ of Wetmore A Morse for tonia
izations mentioned in the foregoing. K. U. Lewu, all of luxlintcn. vcars.
him on the head. The bruises were on
the right side of the face and head. Ir.
E. H. Bailey was called and McPheTson
was hurried to the hospital.
His condition is not considered criti-
Diyposes of His Dental Business.
Eno-hurg Falls, Oct. .!. After 45 years
of successful d ntal practice. Dr. A. R.
Bel! of this place has disposed of his
business to Ur. Allen C. McRride of St,
R.gis Fall-. N. V.. who took possession
veMerdav. Dr. Bell will remain with Dr
inleiiiiite length of tim
lers: Kempton mills. .vVi.. supplies.
strrrt m! fire accounts; D. M. Mile
Coal Co.. $.-..0, supplies, street account;
I) Phelps Co.. .,s7.:U. supplies, street.
water, citv buildings and fire accounts;!
'Smith. Whiteomb ( o"k, 1 !)...". sup-
street
vi-.
...i : - .llieil'ti- I'M -
art. fin.", siippree aim iepan. nirn . . ,,rfc
an l sprtnkhng a- count.s: ,, A. l-aequri., M( i5rM,. ),, practiced in BuffaH
OiaCK.SNM,.!,,, I- V.tl ..,.....
- . . . -1 - cli: Hi) si, T,Til.rt luiirnr r-
building, tire and police account-; Alien,""
Lumber ('.. ?''" cement, sewer ac
count: F. O. Ixf . t-lX ervi-es as city 1
rngim-er and water Mii-erinten-icnt : i
... . r t- j . a i l t
Mini, ers iron a. r. : "-. c. , f- f k
supplies, water account : J. K. '" , ' w , ,-. J N. hf U in t,le pTm.
.4j digginc ditch, sewer account; nap-, '- - j.
l hv.T -t.r;n-:um hall. UP-r ranitevdle. on Weds
.-count; Anna Roler!-.n. .ary as
account; i . , ' ,
,v arm paseu mr "-m i
CRAN1TEVILLE.
,tic-e to quarryworkers of branch 12 j
cal. He is unmarried and hss been in the j water department asi-tsni ; John-ton Jc ,
(Continued on e'ghth fje ).
iv veiling. IM. 4. at 7 p. ra.. ti bal-
t -!i certain art !cs of our bill of prices,
i1-. i im;Hrlrit . Fiery member shousd.
be prcwot. P. J- Finn gan, sec
4
