Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
PUOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 31, 1916
12 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 1G3
I'liiiii'niiii' a nil. -
mumjc. AaumuLnn
NG
A WITNESS COMES FORWARD
IN SUPPORT OF DR. BAILEY
Breckinridge Told a Friend
Substantially Same Story
Concerning The Postscript
done if it hud been a mere fabrication
by Ir. Bailey. Dr. Bailey is a gentle
man of the highest character and
standing and voracity. I have no doubt
that he stated the conversation in sub
stance with absolute truth."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FITCHBURG, Mass.. Oct. 3(1 Sena
tor Henry Cabot Lodge, in a campaign j
speech here tonight read a letter from
John Temple Lloyd Jeffries of Boston '
in which the writer stated that Henry
Breckinndge. former assistant secre- 1
tury of war. had several times made to
h.m remarks similar to thoee attributed (yjp Bryan's Denial
to him bv Dr. Charles H. Hailev of i , ,' . , .,
Tufts College concerning the alleged ! OMAHA, Oct. 3.- llliam J. Uryun.
el mination by Pr'wiicnt Wilson of a former secretary of state, denied here
weakening postscript from the "strict tonight that there was any truth in the
accountability" not to Germany. i story that a postscript had been writ-
A letter from Or. Bailey regarding a ' t, n to the Lusitania note advising the
conversation he had with Mr. Breckin- i German government the strong lan-
r.dge on the subject was read by Sena- guage of the note should not bo taken
tor Loose at a public meeting Saturday
night and the senator in his address to- I
night swid he presented the letter from
Mr Jeffries as additional information.
This letter follows:
seriously and that later the postscript
was withdrawn.
"I take it for (.-ranted." Mr. Rran
said, "that the president will deal with
the matter as he seems wise, if indeed
War Senator Lodge: I have noted in any attention need be paid it after Mr.
Boston papers your remarks connecting
President Wilson with a postscript to,
Breckinridge's denial."
Mr. Bryan would make no further
one of the so-called Lusitania notes, comment except to call attention to
Ace rding to the papers, you state that , the fact this his resignation was not
the effect of this postscript was to viti- tendered at the time the first Lusitania
ate the force of the note, or purposely j note, to which the alleged postscript
to inform the imperial government that ; was attached, was written, but at the
the vu.or displayed in the earlier parts time the second note was written,
of the notes was designed for Anglo- which was nearly a month later.
Amncan consumption only. According;
to the press accounts, thus postscript i Untrue Says Wilson
was added rather surreptitiously and' LONG BRANCH, N. J.. Oct. 30.
under star-chamber proceedings and president Wilson tonight characterized
was withdrawn only because the few as "untrue" the statement made by
manly members of the cabinet hap- j Senator Ilenry Cabot Lodge of Massa
pened to discover its existence by luck chustt'.s to the effect that the prest
and naturally threatened to turn the, dent has seriously considered adding
government upside down. j a weakening postscript to his "strict
I assure .you. sir, I deeply regret accountability" Lusitania note,
heme drawn into this affair; but I; The president telegraphed to Walter
cannot sit idly by and see you called a Lippmann of New York, editor of the
liar when I know your statements are New Kepublic. replying to a message
true. from Mr. Lippmann regarding Senator
.My fr.end. Major lireckinrnK'e sev-i Lnri-e s statement. The president's
t-rai times made to me remarks similar telegram follows:
t.. those reported by Professor ISailey. j "In reply to your telegram let me say
I cannot swear to every minute detail that the statement made by Senator
f'T my memory is only human; but the Lodge is untrue. No postscript or
general substance of your statement is amendment to the Lusitania note was
correct to my personal knowledge. I ever written or contemplated by me
"As I have telegraphed to Major except such pages that I myself instert-
l:re kmridce to tell him of my proposed ed which strengthened and empha-
actton. and as his remarks were not
i GERMANS COUNTER I
j ON THE SOMME I
I In a vigorous counter attack,
j launched with huge effectiveness, t
I the Crcrmans facing the French i
' south of the Somme river in I
I Fiance have been able to recap- I
I turn parts of their former trench-- 1
j cs north of I Mainsonnette and I
I In the region of nineties. In ad-
I dition 412 Frenchmen were made I
I prisoners by the Germans, i
I To the north of the river, how- I
i ever, both the French and the I
I British succeeded in advancing '
I their lines the British to I.es I
J Boenfs and Morval and the French '
1 northwest of SalUy-Saillisef. In the !
latter engagement sixty Germans
' were captured. While in the :
I Dobrudga region of liumania the ;
! Teutonic allies are keeping up :
i their advance on the Transylvania i
1 front the Rumainians are still
fighting hard in the Prahova val- I
' ley and the Jiitl Valley, where :
! fresh gains have been made by
I them. I
I In massed formation, the Rus- I
1 slans in Volhynia to the west of I
I Pustonyrv again endeavored to !
break the Tent.mic line, only again !
I in oe defeated with heavy oasult- !
i ies. no ordini to Berlin. Another
i Russian -attack east of Szelzov !
I also was repulsed by the Germans. !
I Heavy fighting is still going on 1
I at the bend of the Cerna rivej- in
: Serbia, the French and Serbians i
being engaged thcie with the G'T-
: mans ;md Bulgarians. Berlin re- I
I ports that a'l the attacks by the I
1 entent" forces in th's district thus ;
I far hevc failed on the Dorian 1
1 front the British have raided a
'. ;erm.n-BulgM position, inllict- !
: tng considerable casualties ou the
! oeeuriar.ts cf the trenches.
-
GERMAN CHIEFS
ILLSATISfi
ITU THEIR
secret, and as professor Bailey has al
ready invohed the major. I feel obliged
to state that I know your statement is
true. With regard to Major Rreckin-
sized the protest. Il was suggested Republican A. P. Leased Wire
after the note was ready for transmts- PKKLIN. Oct. V. !.y wireless to
slon that an intimation be conveyed to ! Sayville) "The situation is as g'M.d as
the German government that a pro- I ,,f,ssih)e. and ail will le well also in
nosal for arbitration would be accented iu ?..,,.-" ti,. u"i..M Margin,! vr,n
nnge. ne is nn or me nnesi examines and one member or tne cahlnet spoke ; Hindenburg. thief of the German gen
i.f the American gentleman and his dis- to me about it. but II was never dis-.l ,,n, ,,taff described the present war
tir.guished family has been famous for cussed in cabinet meeting and no threat Kituation ' to a representative of the
on Miiidii) in me wouiu lor jvhip. oi any resignation was ever mane, ior
statement also is unquestionably true the very good reason that 1 rejected
beyond any possibility of doubt. I the suggestion after giving such con-
'Believe me. dear Senator Lodge,
"Yours Trulv
"JOHN TF.MPLK LLOYD JEFFRIES"
' The writer of this letter, Mr. John
Jeffries," Senator Lodge said, "is a
member of a very well known family in
Boston, a gentleman of honor and of
the highest character, and well known
to me ersonally. The evidence that
Mr. Breckinridge made the statement
attributed to him about the postscript
I therefore think cannot be successfully
controverted, and If Mr. Breckinridge
made the statement, it can be abso
lutely believed.
"Mr. Breckinridge lias sent one or
two telegrams In which he refers to said:
sideration as I thought every proposal
deserved which touched so grave a
matter.
"It wus inconsistent with the pur
pose of the note. The public Is in pos
session of everything that was said to
the German government.
(HJgned) "WOODItOW WILSON."
President's Denial Enough
SAN MATF.O, Gal., (Jet. 30. When
Henry Breckinridge, who arrived here
tonight from Del M'nte, was informed
Vienna Nieue Kre Presso. whom he
received nt headquarters in the pres
ence of General von Ludendorf. firs;
quartermaster general. As to the du
ration of the war. Field Marshal von
Hindenburg said:
"That depends upon our enemies.
Prophesying does not pay. In the hour
of war one had better leave it aione.
It is possible that the year 1917 will
bring battles which will decide the war.
However, I do not know, and nobody
know:t. I only know that we will fight
this war to a final decision."
Gen. von Ludendorf here added: "We
do not think of peace. We are nbso
mat j-resic.em vuison nan: nranuea im-1 im.-iy decided to continue the war. as
true the statement made by Senator shown wita sufficient ilrnna bv
Lodge regarding the Lusitania note, he
Dr. Bailey and myself in a very angry "Since the president has denied Sen-
the measures of the allied (Teutonic)
army commands."
This Interview with the chie f of staff
manner, which is not important, but he ator Lodge's statement. I shall have was given out today bv the Overseas
News Agency for publication. It con-
! tinues;
"The correspondent In turn reported
war. tie denies that there was any
threat of resigning hy Mr. Garrison or
characterizes his own conversation nothing more to say about It."
w hich Dr. Bailey reported as 'back stairs o
gossip.' He does himself a great In- j
, . . . t iitti itiln vpn
justice uy mis. oecause ne was a mem- mur moui- i cu . i.-i,i vi,.rhal von llin,i.ni,r. ,.
ber of the Wilson administration and. rt WOMEN CAMPA GNERS n nml feel , AuMria.Hun.
a mmi fxeiifiii Hnniniaru turt?uiry iti nsMuiiM r .ct.u nmj v-rrv fpflarirr ir w."w ,,n0 1f , i
INDIANAPOLIS. Oct. 30.-.Secia! "Z Th. V L) ... II. V'
others, but he entirely falls to deny the police were required tonight to protect -.iKnrt Th. fi,,, J , ,
essential point, which was that the the members of the Hughes special rrThl.
V. "'T" , .. , r u ww, Tne Austor-Hungarian
Mr. Garrison saw It. yelling s'piads. These squads werp
Mr Garrison said yesterday In Wash-. composed of men who attempted to (Continued on Page Two)
ii gton: 'I am not being interviewed on ; close on the machines used in escorting a
any subject. I have no statement of! the members of the party through the
any kind to make.' So thut he also r. I streets. At one point women made the
f ises to deny the existence of the post- sir ring with their cries for Wilson but
script, which he certainly would hav offered no demonstration.
people
Which symbol
DO YOU
PREFEHi
SHESRESPONSIBUB
FOR. ALL OF.THEM.
1 1 l''t"'JW,i-
WOMDtRRjL RtSuft Of
"IHE UNDf RVJOOD ludtFf
MurlTiOei5 Mtol
The WAR TRAFFIC
!;:
J
COeAPARATivC WK06
AFTER
The WAR BECMi
COMPWWTwr PuRCMASinfr
POWER. OF A SUt-UAK
BtFOoUc o AFTER.
IHt WAR BCCrAf.
U-BOAT AGAin .
BRINGS DEATH
TO 1EUS
CAMPBELL AND KIBBEY
GETTING STRONGER AS
ELECTION GROWS NEAR
Allan B. Jaynes is
Sure Democrats are
Now Losing Ground
HANLY SAYS COUNTRY W1USTBE
DRY TO COMPETEWITH EUROPE
told Pennsylvanians today ? In tn turf and I can't d.
en who survive the Kuro-1 lomI a" 1 'innsylvanla is wet."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
i'HII.A DKLPHIA. Oct. 30. J. Frank
llatilv. the prohibition presidential
candidate
that the men who surv
lan war will give tho t'nited rttates
sharp competition In the business
world. Only the best will survive, he
sid, and to meet this competition,
America should become sober.
"After the war," he said at flethle
hem, "the men who will come out of
the trenhes w ill not be weakened, but I
purposeful, ready to use to .the best ad-
mnK an me lessons tney navei
learned in the trenches. Then will come
the destined t;me for action. Then will
come a time when mere adjustment ot,
tariff schedules will not suffice. What
will? Muscle and fibre and brains.
Human machinery of Bessemer Steel
and not burned out sheet iron will be
needed in America. How will we meet
if By becomim? a sober nation."
Hanly aroused applause in several
cities with his arguments for equal
suffrage. "We believe." he said, "In
government by the people, and we be
lieve that women are people.".
Ira Ijindriih. the vice presidential
candidate, charged that lbpior interests
lo the slate defeated the suffragists In
the Iat e'i im I rights election,
"I want America so clean." I-and-rith
said later, "that I can look Rus-
Jess Willard Has
To Flee El Paso
On Freight Train
'Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KU PASO, Oct. 30. Jess Willard,
the heavyweight champion failed to
exhibit here today at a show of which
he is one of the star features, while
his 7-seated touring car and a:i auto
mobile of like capacity belonging to
his manager. Tom Jones, were seized
do that as on a writ of attachment obtained by
J. M. Wyatt of El Paso.
Wyatt clailtns he advanced Willard
and Jones t-'.OOO at the time they were
The hecklers disturbed almost all of
the 14 meetings In Pennsylvania and
New Jersey today. Hanly deserted his trying to arrange the fight with Jack
speeen once in lavor or Ivtnurith, and Johnson at Jin'rcv., Mexico.
walking over to a heckler, bade him Willard Is said to have left tonlgli
leave or keep (ulet. He left. f,,r S in Antonio.
Investigator Warns Not
To Intimidate Employes
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBFS, ()., Oct. SO. Frank C.
Dailey, special assistant of the L'nlted
States attorney general iippointed to
investigate alleged "colonization" and
other election frauds In Ohio, Indiana
and Illinois, stated here today that cer
tain law violations have been disclosed
by information now In his hands. Mr.
Dailey Issued a warning "to those con
templating use of fraudulent registra
tion and voting schemes."
It was inferred by the Investigator's
statement thut the disclosures so far
obtained relating to Intimidation of
employes by employers. "It Is reported
that men in Ohio have arranged to in
timidate their employes, said Mr.
Dailey. "Into voting according to their
wishes. Numerous conspiracies of this
nature are reported."
Dailey cites the penalties of the law
relating to intimidation of voters in
his statement.
HUGHES TALKS
001
E
Maddock Positive
That Republicans
TJ7"77 C L Pi 1 C'oLl'MBl'S, o., Oct. 3'). cTiarles
Will OWeet) dtateV1 through industrial
IT centers of Ohio today, making the
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Tom Campbell will cary every south
ern county, save Yuma and ('uchise,
and will wipe out the democratic ma
jority In these counties with his meet
ings at Yuma,' Douglas arid Bis ee In
the closing days of the campaign Is
the opinion of Allan B. Jaynes. ice-
publican National committeeman uhol()in ticket
nrriveo in i'ncnix rrum me soum.
Monday morning.
That governor Kibbey is running
neck and neck with Campbell and is
particularly strong in Cochise county
is the statement of Mr. Jaynes. who
believes that both men will le elected
by a majority of S.'.tni.
Ki.ibey and Campbell ale making
rapid gains and Ashurst and Hi nt
are slipping." said Mr. Jaynes. "Party'
lines are being rapidly swept aside,
the voters are everywhere showing
their Independence. Neither of these
men have been strong partisinns.
Governor Kibbey haling f 'eipiently
shown his irdedendence while the
chief executive of the states in his
Mipointments, and Tom Campbell
having been elected tax commissioner
on a non partisian ballot and having
almost as many friends in the demo
cratic party as he has In republican
ranks. If elected, neither of these men
Aill owe their success to any party.
but to the independent voters of the
state and as public officials, they will
serve the whole people."
o
ENGINEER OF NOTE
PASSES BEYOND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
"Campbell and Kibbey are as good
as elected." said Thos. Maddock. Re
publican State harrman. on his return
to l'liofrnx .Monday morning after ,1
tour .f the north. "The only thing
left to do is to get out the vote. Th?
an campaign put up by the Itepub-
is meeting with
woiu.erful results and appreciation by
the independent voters of Arizona
who were disgusted with the mud
slmging of the Democratic primaries.
'The northern tier of counties were
slow to become interested in the cam
paign us the primaries were not as
bitterly i untested there, but the high
landers now arc in the game and the
Ciimplielis are coming. The old friends
of Judge Kibbey are going to bat for
him in Apache, Navajo, Coconino and
Mohave counties while Yavapai county
is giving Campbell the biggest meet
ings ever held there. The voters are
tired of "letting George do it." and
Jefferson admirers are remembering
his remarks about long terms of office
leading to tyranny.
"independent voters are prone tt
stay away from the polls unless they
are deeply interested. More interest
Is being shown this year than ever
before in Arlznoa and the resulting
big vote will surprise even the most
sanguine admirers of Kibbey and
Campbell."
i AMERICAN CREW
CHICAGO, Oct. 30. Frederick W.
rtrlght, an engineer and inventor of
note, died at his home here today af
ter a short illness. He was the in-
nventor of a number of devices now
in general use on tile beef killing
floors 'n the larger plants.
Mr. Bright was superintendent of
motive power of Armour and Company.
IS PICKED UP
Bulgaria Has No
Mexican Minister
Must Be Imposter
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Oct. 30. The Bul
garian minister to the I'niled States,
Stephen J'anaretoff, declared today that
the man who passed through San An
tonio, Texas yesterday, calling himself
the Bulgarian minister to Mexico was
an imposter or other diplomatic repre
sentative of Bulgaria in Mexico.
The man gave his name as Nobel von
Vicaga. Minister Panatetoff says the
name is not Bulgarian and he never
heard it before.
At the Austro-IIungarlan embassy
here today it was said that Count Kal
man Kania Volkanya. Austrian minis
ter to Mexico, who also passed through
San Antonio yesterday, was on his way
to New York and Washington for a
vncMion and possibly to see bis physician.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Oct. 30. Lloyd's an
nounces receipt of the following wire
less message from the Dutch steamer
Kyndarn by way of Valentia, Ireland,
October
"Sixty degrees. 30 minutes north, 12
degrees. 40 minutes west. Rescued 13
men of the crew of the American tug
Vigilant. Three men remained aboard
the tug which proceeded on her
voyac.e."
The Ryndam left New Y'ork October
-'1 for Rotterdam.
protective tariff his chief theme of
discussion. Before audiences at East
Liverpool. Wcllsville. Steubenville,
Mingo Junction. Dennison, Zanes-
vtl and here tonight the nominee
declared that America was not nre-
I ared to meet the commercial com
petition of an energized Europe after
the war and that American industry
would suffer in those days were it
not protected.
Mr. Hughes was received by audi
ences which cheered him frequently.
At Wcllsville scores of railroad em
ployes in their overalls crowded
around his car and applauded his
brief address. At Mingo Junction
whistles proclaimed his arrival and
hundreds of workers climbered ovr
the high fence to hear him. They
applauded him frequency.
Many were turned away from the
hall at Zanes ille where Mr. Hughes
spoke, nnd the hall was crowded with
an audience that interrupted him from
time to time to cheer and to voice it:
own comments on what he said. These
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Oct. 30. Prelimi
nary reports of the sinking by German
submarines of the British steamers
Marina and Kowanmore, partly man
ned by Americans, were too incomplete
tonight to enable officials at the state
department to form an opinion as to
whether there had been a violation of
neutral rights or of the pledges given
the United States by Germany. Sec
retary Lansing declined to comment
further than to admit that the reports
appeared more serious than the usual
dispatches announcing the destruction
of belligerent merchantmen, and that
full information would be awaited with
interest.
On its face, the case of the Marina,
reported by Consul Frost at Queens
town, presents the gravest situation
that has arisen since the sinking of
the channel liner Sussex, which
brought the American and German
governments to the verge of a break
ing point. Although he cautioned that
his information was purely "provis
ional," the consul cabled that the Ma
rina, a "horse transport with a mixed
crew of British and Americans." was
reported sunk without warning by (ier
man submarine gunfire, 100 miles west
of Cape Clear, and that seventy of the
crew of 104 were missing. Press dis
patches have indicated that the miss
ing men might reach shore in their
boats later.
Another message from Mr. Frost said
members of the crew of the Rowan
more, including Americans, hail been
shelled in their boats while abandoning
the ship after being chased by a sub
marine for fifty minutes. There were
no casualties.
According to the agents in this coun
try of the Marina's owners, the Don
aldson line, the vessel, w ith some fifty
American horse tenders aboard, wits
not under charter to the British gov
ernment a.s a transport, but was en
gaged in her regular trade as a freight
er and carried horses for the allies
as a part of her general cargo. Under
such circumstances she would be en
titled to all the immunities of any other
belligerent-owned merchantman, and
any enemy destroying her and her con
traband cargo would le required to
make due provision for the safety of
the ship's company, unless she was
sunk in the act of attempting to es
cape. '
Apparently ill depends upon the ac
curacy of the first reports; whether
the Marina actually was attacked
w ithout warning or whether she is to
be recorded as only another of tho
scores of British carriers that have
gone to ,tle bottom as the result of
their skippers' desperate efforts to out
run enemy shells.
Until a full report has come from
Consul Frost no step will be taken by
the state department. Frost is re
garded as a thorough investigator and
has played a part in determining the
facts in many of the most important
submarine incidents, including the de
struction of the Lusitania. Affidavits
of American survivors are expected
from him within a day or so.
Most of the officials of the depart
ment are inclined to be very optimistic.
They point out that time after time
first accounts have made it appear that
a ship had been sunk illegally and that
in every instance since the Sussex
complete reports have proved that no
laws or pledges had been violated by
the submarine.
Comparatively little importance is
attached to the case of the Rowan
more, because it is admitted the ves
sel attempted to escape -and only
stopped after fleeing for fifty minutes
and having her steering gear shot
away. There was a heavy fog at the
time and officials think it would be
easy for panicstricken sailors having
their battered ship to have imagined
that the submarine was sending shells
in their direction. This opinion is
strengthened by the fact that no one
was lost.
(Continued on Page Three)
President Is Waiting.
LONG BEACH. N. J., Oct. 3.
President Wilson, when informed today
of the sinking of the British steamship
Marina by a submarine with the prob
able loss of American lives, immedi
ately directed that he be supplied with
all details as they come to the state
(Continued on Page Three!
THIS CUlTEtEul HAD
DETECTIVES WORKING HARD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 In report-I
ing today on the arrest last week at ,
Santa Cruz, Oil., of H. R. Wilken, as
he was trying to pass a bogus $10
note of the Minneapolis federal reserve
bank, treasury secret service agents
said today the government had got its
hand on the most skillful and elusive
counterfeiter of recent years.
The prisoner, according to officials
here, confessed manufacturing the
three most puzzling series of counter
feit bills encountered since the notor-
' ions Monroe Head affair.
Carranza Troops Shot at
Americans Officer Reports
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . lances for the last two or three years.
SAN ANTONIO. Texas. Oct. 30. Major Long's report threw the first
, .. ... , , , . .Might on the composition of the Mexl-
The thirty Mexicans who opened ,re'Ciln band
on an American detachment in the Big! Accoiding to the report the Ameri
Bend district October 19, precipitating , can detachment discovered two of the
a fight that lasted for forty-five min-1 Mexicans on this side of the Rio
ntes, were under command of ChU'o , Grande signalling to their companions
t'ano. This information was con- to cross. These men were cantured
tallied In a written report of the aT
fair received today by General Funston
from Major John D. Long, command
ing the squadron of Texas cavalry on
duty in the section.
Cano holds rank as captain In the
Carranza garrison at Ojinag.t. He has
been identified with border disturh-
and still are held for action by the
civil authorities. After they had been
taken. Cano's force opened fire. In
the ensuing engagement one Mexican
was wounded and was reported to have
died later.
The report Indicates that soldiers in
Cano's command had been drinking.
When the secret service men raided
Wilken's place in Los Angeles they
found not only plates from which bills
were turned out, but also a miniature
paper mil! capable of producing a fine)
quality of stock very nearly exactly
like that used by the treasury for
printing its notes.
The arrest was a result of the pub
licity campaign started three weeks
ago by distributing 100. Ouo circulars
describing the counterfeit federal re
serve note. A Santa Cruz jeweler
recognized a note which a customer
offered and hastily called the police.
Wilken, who is only 2!i years old, is
accused of having passed not less than
$50,000 worth of bad money since 1910.
when a great quantity of counterfeit
$1 notes, skillfully made and now de
clared to have been bis production, ap
peared throughout the east. Five dol
lar Indian head silver certificates cir
culated in considerable numbers in tho
east four years ago also are credited
to him.
Wilken's money was difficult to de
tect. The principal defect of the fed
eral reserve note was too many fine
lines in the portrait of Andrew Jack
son, engraved on the note's face. These
made the hair in the portrait look gray
instead of white.
The prisoner is said to have declared
that he made only forty reserve notes,
twenty of which have been recovered.
Wilken was arrested by 11. H. Mof
frtt, chief of the San Francisco bureau
of the secret service, and will be tried
in that' city. Wilken formerly lived
at West Hoboken, N. J., it was learned
here.
