I Todays Metal Prices a ll ivi V-W I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
iu.b, copper, $28.00. Northwest Portion.
FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER, . ' H
Forty-sixth Year-No. 271. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 31, 1916. Entered as Second-Clasc Matter at tine Poetofflce, Ogden, Utah.
I Violent Fighting Continues
With Varying Successes In
y;;,v:- ,- Whole Eastern War Theater
Rumanians Pushing Teutons to NorthRussians
Attacking Fiercely on Lemberg Front.
; London, Oct. 31, 2:22 p. m. The battle that has been
in progress in the Szurduk pass region on the Rumanian Tran
sylvanian frontier, has ended in a brilliant victory for the Ru-
' manians, according to a "wireless message from Bucharest to
day. The Austro-German forces, it is reported, having been
! repulsed from the frontier after having lost much artillery and
I many prisoners.
! Along the whole front of the Transylvanian Alps on the
; northern Rumanian border, the Teutonic lines have v been
shaken by the Rumanian attack, the despatch adds.
(Thirteen persons, among them prob
ably some Americans, of the British
steamer Marina are missing, accord-
ing to American Consul Frost at
Queenstown, who reports survivors as
stating that the vessel was torpedoed
without warning in a heavy sea and
sank in ten minutes.
Military operations in various war
theatres are being hampered by un
favorable weather. On the Somme
front in northern France the intense
j activity of the past few days has been
diminished until now only artillery
fighting is reported in that area. Sev
eral conditions prevail before Verdun.
In Macedonia, further progress for
the French and Serbians west of Lake
Presba, southwest of the Monastir re
gion, is reported by Paris, The Bul
garians announce an entente defeat
in attacks in the Cerna region, south
east of Monastir, and the driving Tack
of the Serbians near Nonte, in the
! N Moglenica district, further east.
I DuilfigOctober British casualties
i reported from all war theatres, 4,331
I officers and 102,702 men, London ad-
; vices today slate,
i Germany has directed reprisals up
on Husslan prisoners because of Rus
; sian non-compliance with German de-
; mands for improved treatment of
German prisoners, according to a
semi-official announcement in Berlin.
Certain Russian officers have been
placed in camps where the discipline
' Is especially severe.
Berlin's report on the latest opera
) tions on the Somme front announces
repulses for the British near Les
Boeufs, north of the river, and of the
' French, who attacked La Maisonette
'Jr farm and tho new German positions
f south of Biaches. Tho German artil-
i Iqry broke up attempts by strong
' French forces to advance in the re-
; gion of Chaulnes, it is declared.
J. ; Eastern Front Active,
i The eastern front again is stirring
with activity. From the north of the
'' Volhynian region to the south of Hal-
icz, on the Lemberg front, tho Rus
sians are attacking, and in the sector
ji west of Lutsk report w tho capture of
Austro-German first lino trenches.
! Berlin announces not only the re
pulse of Russian attacks on the
Shara and below Stanislau, southeast
of Lemberg, but claims the capture of
important Russian positions in tho
Xi Narayuvka region on the vicinity of
tt Hallcz.
j Fighting on the Transylvanian front
l continues violently in the- mountain
passes and near the frontier. No fur
ther advances by the Austro-German
forces are claimed, however, while
Petrograd reports the Rumanians con
tinuing their successes in the Jiul val
: ' ley, pressing Field Marshal von Falk-
' enhayn's forces further north.
1 Berlin claims the failure of Ruman
ian efforts to recapture heights north
of Sanipulung, where the Austro-German
advance had pressed a consider
able distance into Rumanian territory
southwest of Kronstidt
.. Petrograd, Oct. 31, via London, 2:30
S: i p. m. A heavy attack made yesterday
by Russian forces In Volhynla resulted
I in the capture of Austro-German first
ri I line trenches, the war office announc-
: ed today.
; Counter attacks were repulsed by
tho RussIanB.
: j Tho Russian attack was made on
i . the front west of Lutsk, in the region
; of Pustonyty and Oshchest.
If- In Transylvania, the Rumanians
continue to push back the AuBtro-Gcr-
! man forces In the Jiul valley, the
statement adds, 300 additional Teu-
M. tonic prisoners being taken yesterday
and four machine guns captured.
In tho Rumanian province of Do
brudja It Is said thero is no change
In tho situation.
The text of the Russian statement
reporting operations in Galicla, Tran
sylvania and Dobrudja follows:
"South of Brzezany (on the Zlota
Lipa river in Galicia) we repulsed a
series of successive attacks and cap
tured some prisoners.
"In the Jiul valley, Transylvania,
tho Rumanians continued to press the
enemy towards the north and in this
region they have taken a further 300
prisoners and four machine guns."
Sanguinary Defeat of Russians.
Berlin, Oct. 31. (By .wireless to Say
ville.) Russian troops yesterday at
tacked the German lines near Krash-J
k
en, in the Shara district, but met with
a sanguinary repulse, according to to
day's army headquarters announce
ment Engagements in the Bercstechck
region on the Lemberg front in Ga
licia and along the upper Styr result
ed favorably to the Germans. On the
east bank of the Narayuvka, south
east of Lemberg, Turkish troops took
several Russian positions further
south were taken by Germans, who
repulsed Russian counter attacks and
captured four officers, 170 men and
nine machine guns. All other at
tempts to advance southwest of Stan
islau were futile.
The statement follows:
"At dawn the Russians attacked our
Shara position but were repulsed.
"Northwest of Berestechk, on the
upper Styr, our post engagements had
a result favorable to us.
"On tho west bank of the Narayuv
ka Turkish troops captured several
advanced positions of the ene'my at
Moldovicza at the point of the bayon
et. Further south German regiments
took complete positions on the heights
west of Flov-Kasnolesne and repulsed
Russian counter attacks. Four offi
cers, 170 men and nine machine guns
were brought in.
"Northwest of Stanislau an advance
of Russian detachments was without
success."
Rumanian Efforts Fail.
Berlin, Oct. 31, by wireless to Say
ville. Efforts of the Rumanians to re
capture German positions on the
Transylvania front yesterday were
without success, the war office an
nounced today. Since October 10, the
Austrians and Germans have captured
more than 10,000 Rumanians.
The announcement follows:
"Army group of Archduke Charles
Francis-Quiet prevailed on the Tran
sylvanian southeastern front. In the
southern frontier mountain fighting
goes on In spite of heavy fog and
snowstorms. North of Cainpulung
near Boorzeny and north of Orsova
the Rumanians attempted in vain to
take back heights captured from
them.
"Since October 10, General von
Falkenhayn's army has captured 151
Rumanian officers 0920 men and
much war material,, including 37 can
non, -17 machine guns and one flag.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
Mackensen the situation in Dobrudja
is unchanged."
Serbians Are Checked.
Berlin, Oct. 3L. by wireless to Say
ville. Serbian troops, who recently
have been advancing on the western
end of the Macedonian front, have
been checked and thrown back with
heavy losses, the war office announc
ed today.
Following Is the statement:
"After initial success Serbian de
tachments in tho region of tho Cerna
bend were thrown back with heavy
losses by a counter attack of Bulgar
ian infantry to the positions from
which they started."
British and French Defeated.
Berlin, Oct 31, by wireless to Say
vllle. Attempts of the British and
French troops on the Somme front
near Les Boeufs and La Maisonette to
advance yesterday, were defeated by
the Germans, tho war office announc
ed today.
French attacks in the region of Ab
lalncourt and on both sides of the
Chaulnes-Lihons road also were with
out Buccess, according to tho official
statement issued today which fol
lows :
"The activity of tho fighting on the
Sommo was limited by unfavorable
weather. Detachments of the enemy
which advanced against our positions
northeast and east of Les Boeufs were
driven back, by our fire. An attack
of a French company against La Mai
sonette failed. Fully without success
were attacks of hand grenade squads
to enter our new trenches south of
Biaches. Attacks of stronger French
forces against Ablaincourt and on
both sides of the Chaulnes-Lihons
road were not carried out, owing to
our defensive fire.
"In the Mouse sector (Verdun
front), It was quieter than on tho pre
ceding day. Only in the district of
St Mihiel did tho artillery, fire in
crease temporarily to greater vio
lence." Portuguese tose Two.
Laurence Marquez, Portuguese East
Africa, Oct. 30. Via "London, Oct. 31,
5:15 a. m. It is officially announced
that the Portuguese lost only two
killed in capturing Newalla from the
Germans on October 26. Losses of tho
German troops arc described as heavy.
Amsterdam, Oct. 31. Via London,
4:34 a. m. Emperor William, says
an official announcement made in
Berlin, has sent a message to Field
Marshal von Mackensen, thanking him
for the successful operations he has
conducted in Dobrudja and the cap
ture of Tchernavoda. The emperor
announces that West Prussian Infan
try Regiment No. 129 will henceforth
bear Field Marshal von Mackensen'a
name.
Serbs Meet Defeat.
Sofia, Monday, Oct 30. Via Lon
don, Oct 31, 12:31 p. m. A series of
desperate attacks by the Serbians in
the Cerna river region southeast of
Monastir on the Macedonian front
' resulted in sanguinary defeat for
them, tho war office announced to
day. In the Moglenica region to the east
Bulgarian troops expelled the Ser
bians from trenches in the vicinity of
Monte.
The official statement reads;
"In the bend of the Cerna there has
been serious fighting. During the
day the Germans by a counter attack
repulsed two strong enemy attacks
near Valjinelo. Towards evening the
enemy made several further desperate
attacks on a more extended front, but
was driven back with sanguinary
losses.
"We attacked the Serbians and
drove them from trenches south of
Nonte. An enemy grdupnorth ofOier
Liumitsa (a western tributary of the
Vardar) was annihilated by our fire."
Germans Deny Aeroplane Story.
Berlin, Oct. 30. (By wireless to Say
ville.) At the German war office to
day it was declared that the state
ment in the French official communi
cation that on October 24 French aero
planes had fought twenty engage
ments in which three German ma
chines had been shot down In the vi
cinity of Verdun was absolutely un
true. On October 24 military author
ities are quoted by the Overseas News
agency as saying not a single Ger
man aeroplane was shot down or dam
aged. Bucharest, via London, Oct. 31.
Tho Rumanians have won further ad
vantages over the Austro-German
forces on tho Transylvaulan front, tho
war office announced today. In tho
Jiul valley pursuit of tho Teutons con
tinues. Heavy fighting is in progress
east of the Alt.
Warrants for Single Men.
Melbourne, Australia, Oct. 31, via
London, 4:15 a. m. Tho portion of
tho conscription referendum is virtu
ally unchanged, but its friends all de
clare themselves hopeful that the fi
nal vote will show a majority in their
favor. The political situation seems
certain to become complicated, but de
velopments In this respect aro not ex
pected until Premier Hughes returns
shortly from Sydney.
Warrants aro boing Issued for the
arrest of single men between tho ages
of 21 and 31 who failed to report un
der the compulsory training scheme.
nn
SIX MEN SENTENCED
By JUDGE BARKER
Clarence Loughran, according to
the polico court blotter, "beat up a
Mexican named Felix Rabira," Sunday
night, on lower Twenty-fifth street
For the offense, he was sontenced
this morning by Judge G. S. Barker
to servo 10 days in jail.
Following tho arrest of Loughran,
Rabira was sent on his way with a
warning to keep out of further troublo.
Ho did so until yesterday, when ho
got drunk and was picked up In Elec
tric alley by Sergeant O. H. Mohlman.
The judge this morning sentenced him
to servo 10 days in jail.
Rojt Stevens, Alfonso Luzcro, Barry
Sullivan and Fred Brown, plain
drunks, were each ordered to serve
flvo-day jail sentences.
Tony Borca was arraigned on a
charge of soiling liquor without a li
cense and entered a' plea of not guilty.
HiB trial was Bet for Thursday morn
ing. Borca was arrested last night at
17G Twenty-fifth street, by Sergeant
J. F. Kelliher.
oo
The establishment of a logal de
partment will be considered by tho
Ohio State Federation of Labor.
oo-
Lighting restrictions throughout
Great Britain have caused the dis
missal of hundreds of lamplighters.
STIELOW, AGAIN SENTENCED BY NEW YORK
COURT FOR PHELPS MURDER, LOSES HOPE
Charles F. Stielow (right) on way to Sing Sing death house.
After being resentenced by the New York court of appeals to death
for the murder of Charles D. Phelps and his housekeeper in Orleans county,
.Ncw Yorl:,about s year-ago, Charles F. Stielow returned hopeless to th
Sing Sing death house. He will be electrocuted in December. Three times
Stielow has been saved from the death chair by reprieves at the last minute,
Favors Maintenance of Right
of Travel and Right of
Shipment.
GREAT CROWD PRESENT
Nominee Favors Sound Gov
ernmental Policies Ameri
can Ability Is Safe.
Columbus, Ind., 9ct. 31 Charles E.
Hughes today tol4 a. heckler that he
was In favor of tho maintenance of
every American right, "including tho
right of travel and the right of ship
ment" Mr. Hughes had been asked
If he favored an embargo on munitions
or tho passage ofa resolution by con
gress warning Americans off mer
chant ships flying tho flag of bellig
erent nations.
Mr. Hughes spoke in tho open air
before a crowd that had come for
miles to hear him and choked the
streets around Commercial park. He
was speaking of tho competition Am
erican enterprise will have to meet
from Europe after peace when a man
in the crowd shouted:
"Mr. Hughes, as a personal admirer,
may I ask you a question ?"
There was tho usual confusion re
sulting from an attempt to heckle.
Tho nomineo nskatP the crowd for
quiet so that tho. questioner might
proceed.
"In tho event of your election," tho
man asked, "will, you, or will you not
favor or oppose an embargo against
tho shipment of munitions from this
country to Europe, or tho passage of
a war resolution warning Americans
not to travel on ships owned by na
tions at wnr?"
Would Maintain All Righto.
"I, sir," the nominee replied, "am
in favor of the maintenance of every
right, including tho right of travel and
tho rights of shipments. It is a very
important right that we have as a neu
tral nation and it is very importmt
that at this time, when the great war
is raging, wo should vindicate neutral
rights and maintain tho Integrity; wo
should vindicate noutral rights and
maintain tho Integrity of international
law. To my mind it is a very thought
loss policy that would surrender any
of these important rights because of
any sentimental consideration, when
wo have the vast necessities of nou
tral commerce and the importance of
neutrals to consider with respect to
the future of tho United States."
The crowd cheered Mr. Hughes and
the heckler shouted: "Thank you."
"The foundation of American pros
perity," Mr. Hughes was saying when
the heckler Interrupted him, "is to
be found not simply in .patriotic sen-
timent uniting our citizenship. The
foundation must be found in sound
governmental policies. We have in
this world of tho twentieth century
great opportunities and great dangers.
It is a new world. These nations of
the other side, after the European war,
aro going to have an extraordinary
efficiency, a great organization, great
powers, great discipline, alert man
hood. They have had their wastes;
they have had their misfortunes, but
all thoso -serious consequences of war
must be observed the advantages of
a tremendous driving power, perfect
ing organization and increasing the
efficiency of men and women. They
have learned to co-ODcrate; they have
learned to work together. It Is no
time to talk to the American people
that America by its ability is safe;
It Is not safe unless it uses thoso
governmental powers to protect Its
concerns."
The heckler then asked his ques
tion. After replying Mr. Hughes con
tinued. Must Look to Future.
"In all these matters we are look
ing far to the future. Wo must con
sider our place as a great nation de
voted to the Interests of peace. When
these crises arise wo aro trustees, real
ly guardians of our future. We may our
selves though Heaven forbid bo in
volved in difficulties when these
rights are of the utmost Importance.
Wo must maintain tho right to buy.
Wo have tho need, in tho absence of
a merchant marine, such as we should
have, wo have tho need of utilizing
tho facilities of travel and wo must
protect American oltlzens In every
right with respect to life, property
and commerce as to all nations.
Must Be Fearless.
"What we want is an America
standing for its own rights facing the
world with a senso of justice asking
naught but that to -which, sho is en
titled, but fearless and courageous.
Wo need an America four square to
the world, commending itself by the
firmness and consistency of its pol
icies, vindicating, as I have said, the
principles of International law and
showing Itself as to all, the champion
of tho rights of neutrality."
After his speech hero, Mr. Hughes
and his party departed for Bedford,
Ind.
oo
BRITISH WAR
LOSSES REPORTED
Total Casualties for Four
Months of the Somme Of
fensive 414,202.
London, Oct 31, 11:05 a. m. Brit
ish casualties during October in all
war areas are:
Officers 4331; men 102,702.
October losses of 107,033 bring up
the total British casualties for tho
four months of tho Somme offensive
X
Battle I ,U In I
Robbers Attempt to I
Hold Up Car Crew I
Charles McCullen was killed last
night in a pistol duel with Charles A.
Wood, a conductor of the Ogden, Lo
gan &. Idaho Railway company, and
Wood was seriously, but not fatally,
Injured. A second man, as yet un
known, was also shot by Wood and
is now being searched for by the
police. Following the shooting, the
body of McCullen was taken to the
Larkin mortuary and Wood was tak
en to the Dee hospital, while mem
bers of the police and sheriff's de
partment continued the search for the
third man.
The duel was the result of an at
tempted holdup, which occurred near
the south city limits on Washington
avenue, about 7:30 o'clock. Wood had
stepped to the south end of the
street car, of which he was in charge,
to change the trolley, when, he said
last night:
"The two robbers came upon me
quickly. One said, 'Come on, dig up
money, boys, we mean business.' I
started to reach for ray purse. I
knew I would be shot anyhow, as the
robber's hand was shaking from nerv
ousness. And he did shoot. Then I
got out my gun and shot The two
started to run and I emptied the gun.
There were seven shots in it I wish
ed I had shot the other fellow; he was
the one I wanted. I saved the mon
ey, too."
Before Molorman Joseph Furniss,
who had gone to the north end of the
car to attach the headlight, could
reach his fellow workman's side.
Wood was shooting at the retreating
robbers. Seeing that the conductor
was not fatally wounded, Furniss, at
Wood's request, rushed to a nearby
residence and sent the alarm to tho
police department Desk Sergeant
Barlow Wilson answered the call and
immediately sent Sergeant J. F. Kolli
her.j.Patrplman Fitzgerald. and.Chauf-
feur Dick to the scene in the detec
tives' automobile. Upon their arrival,
they took Wood from the street car
and" sent him to the hospital as quick
ly as possible. Officers Kelliher and
Fitzgerald then went on the trail of
to 414,202. The dally average loss
for October is 3452.
The British figures are of especial
interest on account of their bearing
on the controversy between London
and Berlin regarding the losses of the
allies on the Somme. Several of the
statements in October from the Ger
man war office dwell on the sacrifices
of the British and French to obtain
a comparatively small amount of ter
ritory. It was said they had made
desperate efforts to break through
the German lines, hurling forward
great bodies of troops and sustaining
enormous losses. On one occasion,
the British war office denied a state
ment of this nature from Berlin.
Unofficial advices from British
sources stated the losses of the al
lies relative to thoso of the Germans
and to tho operations undertaken were"
decreasing to a marked extent on ac
count of increased efficiency of the
artillery and aerial services.
So far as is shown by the London
figures, which of course take no ac
count of the French casualties, the
losses of the British have been de
creasing since August. The totnl re
ported for September was 119, 54S or
a dally average of more than 3800.
In August the total was 127,945, a
daily average of 4127. In July, how
ever, tho casualties reported wore
only 59,675.
oo
tAST DAY FOR WETS.
Richmond, Va., Oct 31 This is the
last day on which intoxicating bever
ages may bo sold legally in Virginia.
At midnight tonight the now' prohibi
tion law goes into effect and about
eight hundred saloons in the state will
close their doors for the last time.
Many closed today because their
stocks had been exhausted.
oo
At Holyhead, Wales, two firemen
who went ashore from transport ships
without leave were fined $1 each and
costs.
nn
California labor unions urge the en
acting of a law which will abolish all
employment agencies operated for
profit.
the holdups. About a half-block dis-
tant, they found McCullen, groaning IH
from the pain caused by the wound he
had received. They telephoned to po- jJ
lice headquarters for a stretcher and IH
the auto-patrol. Desk Sergeant Wil- IH
son responded, driving the patrol to
the scene. The man died, however, fl
before the patrol arrived, but he man-
aged, however, in answer to questions
of Officers Kelliher and " Fitzgerald,
who knelt at his side, to gasp out his IH
name, Charles McCullen, but did not
succeed in telling them his place of
residence.
Trailing Second Robber. IH
The body was first taken to the po- jH
lice station and then the sergeant and
patrolman, reinforced by Chief of
Police T. E. Browning, Sheriff T. A.
DeVine, Detective Captain Robert
Burk, Sergeant O. H. Mohlman, Dep
uty Sheriff Oren Hadlock, Sheriff E.
E. Butters of Morgan county and Pa
trolmen W. E. Moore and William
Brown, took up the trail of the sec
ond highwayman. A distinct trail of
blood was followed east on Thirty
sixth street about a half block and
then south through lots and alleys to
a field, covered with wheat stubble.
Here, Sergeant Mohlman found a bloc
handkerchief saturated with blood.
Tho handkerchief looked as though
it had been tied around a man's leg
above the knee and near it was found JH
a large pool of blood, which was still iH
warm. The trail was lost at this
point, however.
In the meantime, Wood had been
attended at the hospital by Dr. R. S.
Joyce, who found that the bullet from
the robber's gun had entered the con
ductor's body near the middle of the
abdomen and then, being deflected,
had passed out the right side. A fl
I stomach pump was used and by this
-means it was-ascertained that the bul
let had not gone through the stom- IH
ach. Later, the ball was found to
have penetrated the liver and a low
er lobe of the right lung.
( Continued on Page 9 )
INDIM LEADS I
FINANCIAL Ei I
Republican National Commit-
tee Assists State With $72,- H
250 in Political Cam- jH
paign.
STATEMENT IS FILED
American Association of For
eign Language Papers Re
ceive Ninety Thousand
Dollars.
New York, Oct 31. Indiana with
?72.250 led the states which the Re- jl
publican national committee, assisted JH
financially In political campaigning
up to October 20, it was announced IH
at the party's national headquarters
here today. The committee's state
in en t filed at Washington as required
by law, was made public today.
Massachusetts received $52,000 and IH
the party's success in Maine was aid
ed with $43,000. Other states which
received $15,000 or more were Ken
tucky $40,000; Colorado, $35,000; Ne
braska, $31,000; Tennessee and Penn- jfl
sylvania, $25,000 each; New Mexico, JH
$20,000; North Dakota, Arizona, Utah,
Nevada, Wyoming, Oklahoma, West
Virginia, Idaho and Montana, $15,000
Illinois and New York received
nothing up to October 20, and Ohio
$5000. A disbursement of $90,000 was
made to the American Association of
Foreign Language Newspapers.
Laundry workers in Fresno ani
Stockton, Cal., are waging a cam
paign for 100 per cent organization.
A Big Special I
A package of Murphy's fresh roasted
Hotel Utah Coffee I
Free with each Want Ad. for next Saturday's Standard.
We are giving the coffee away now and will keep right
i on giving it until it is all gone. Bring your ad?; in
'': in the week and be sure of the coffee. We will hold the i
;! ad. for SATURDAY. . , j
