I 8 PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1910. " FOURTEENTH iYEAR fl
I TAXPAYERS ARE
I AROUSED OVER
' TAX CONDITION
. -
Our uncovering of tho unjulst tax
assessments in Cache county Bcems
to havo aroused ho people. Now
comes n tax-payer for the north who
writes as follows:
"The records at tho court house
are whore we got our Information,
and we And after moagor Investiga
tions that the discriminations In
the cash valuations of both personal
and real estate in' Cache County are
'Unequitable that we are dumbfounded
at the sight of the figures and as
citizens we deem it our duty to call
"the attention of the citizens to these
figures:
In Cornish whoro our present
county commissioner resides, and
who Is now aspiring to succeed him
self,! wo find gross inequalities.
, The 160 aero farm known aB the
Ye'drir Nelson homo was recently div
ided and sold to B. Yt Benson and
Thomas Marriott. "BY. Benson now
owns the south 80, and Thomas Mar
riott the north 80. The Benson 80
is a shade tho best and'ls assessed
at $1,520, while Marriotts Is assessed
$3,000, no improvements being on
tract. Wo find that Mr. Berg03on
owns 71 acres which is assessed at
$67.00 per acre, while Alfred Jensen,
who owns 30 acres Just across the
road Is assessed at $82.40 per acre.
Tho buildings 'of tho latter gentle
man aro assessed at $1,000 and Mr.
Bergeson's at $1,200. Any one
knowing both buildings knows there
is a difference of $2,000 in Mr. Ber
geson's favor. We call attention to
these cases at a place whero theso
men reside and where tho commis
sioner's homo is, and will leave it
for the public to judge.
J Know one seems to know how this
difference in taxes occured, one shifts
the responsibility to the other but
the records reveal the facts as abovo
' stated, and t,horocords are they who
ni& bear witness.
I It appears that tho burden of tho
taxes is carried by a few and a
I special favor oxtended to a favored
lot of pcoplo In this county."
BB tm m m
I YON YONSENSEN
I REFERRING TO
I commissioners!
H Ay heck ay nefor belcoph Ef Bur-
gesen an Ylm Facur vould do slch
H tings In dls tax blsnlss. Efldontly
H dey tlnk mens dat vont profldo fur
dcr sclph Is not much goot an doy
don purceed to profldo fur domsolfs
I nnd da little clicks. By Ylmmlny If
doy bo koinlshunersitfur- two utoro
Bj yeors doy vont beT'sessed at all,
I By Ooshamlty ny 11 "dat Sinltar
Hi Boras talk, nn ay am wld him to beet
Hj demokrats. Ay tank no vlmmlns can
HJ vote doniokrnt after hcerlng about
Hj VlUon raisin do .Tuft olnbargo and
Hj playln In vld his frens Vlllo and Kar-
Hj anza, who kilt Merlcaus and rnvlsh-
Hj cd Morlcan vlmmlns. By heck lots
H beot (loin all.
H " Yoors trooly.
. J f YON YONSENSEN.
I Car of Apples "Arrive.
H Mr. ityBinUfijon, manager of' tho
Cacho Fruit, . Growers' "Association
H advises us that ho will havo a car
H of Jonathan and Homo Beauty np
H pies Wednesday or Thursday of this
week that will .bo sold choapor than
H potatoes, Ho uiiys Just bring your
sack or box nnd havo It filled at
$1.2G per bushel. Adv. 11-2.
I Advertised Letters
S!m Logan, Utah, Oct. 28, 1916.
Allon, Jamos Dow. "
H. Baldwin, W. It.
H Collottj Mrs. Molva.' '
Hall, Mrs. T. E. A. i
Lakor, John.
H Larson, Lo Grand. '
H Hamona, C. A. ' I
Stafford, Mr. Jack.
Urtos, Eliza.
J, M. BLAIR, '
H l'ostmaster.
Bj mim
I MEN WANTED.
H Men wautcd,at tho Lowlston Sugar
factory. - " Adv. tf
"H
FUNERAL HELD
FOR DR. ORMSBY
IN THIS CITY
Funeral services ovor tho remains
of tho lato Dr. Oliver C. Ormsby
were held in tho Logan Tabernaclo
iit 2:30 p. in. on Sunday. Dr. Orms
hy died last Wednesday nt Hexburg
whero ho,, had resided for about 15
yoars. A scoro of years prior to that
tlmo he was one of the most prom
Inont figures In Logan and Cacho
County where ho had practiced medl
clno nnd surgery. He was a very
capablo, scholarly man, of flno at
tainments, neat, dignified nnd clean.
He has always Impressed his hoarors
and those he came In contact with
of his flno personality, cholco and
sympathetic' words, dignified and
sterling character. When ho loft
Logan ho had many ( friends who
wished him well. That friendship
has maintained and-hundreds who
know and respected him In llfo were
glad to have his mortal remains
brought to Logan where they could
could pay a final tribute to his honor
and memory In death. The services
woro held under tho auspices of the
First Ward where he lived so many
years and whero he built two beau
tiful homes. Floral offerings wero
many and beautiful. The choir sang
Hock of My Refuge and tho opening
prayer was opened by Elder Joseph
E. Cardon.
"a solo was then tendered by Mrs.
Feldstod Stark.
Elder John T. Calno was tho first
speaker. Ho had met tho deceased
39 years ago when as a physician ho
covered Cache Valley and surround
ing territory, and with him ho la
bored In tho Sunday school work,
and was satisfied with tho work of
Dr. Ornibsy was such ns to entltlo
him to a big placo In tho hearts of
tho peoplo In this country.
t
Bishop C. W. Nlbloy had also la
bored with tho deceased in tho Sun
day School work and found him to
bo nn energetic and upright man.
Ho was tho "model of cleanliness,
appreciated his work, lov d tho gos
pel, honored his priesthood and sus
tained the brethren, and more than
that can not bo said of nn man."
Elder Frank Baugh sang a solo.
Elder James A. Langton read a
poem by Elder Win. II. Apperly com
lnemeratlvo of the llfo nnd labor of
Dr. Ormsby, another said that Dr.
Ormsby died at tho rlpo ago of 72
years. Last Wednesday ho visited
sonio children at Sugar City under
his caro nnd borne other patients un
der his caro In his olllclal capacity
as County 1'hyslclnn of Mndlson Co'.,
Idaho. Ho camo homo that ovonlng,
did his chores, changed his clothes,
af tor which ho was stricken with par
alysis and within two hours wns
dead. Ho said that notwithstanding
all tho trials besetting tho doctor's
llfo that ho novor know him to havo
a continuous downcast day, for no
matter what tho clrcumstnnces, somo
tlmo during tho day tho sunshlnu al
ways broke through tho clouds. Ho
never know him to rofuso a call In
his professional capacity and many
times ho had traveled by team as
for' as 150 miles during bad weathur
when his llfo was endangored in or
der to meet tho demnnds upon him.
Ho had soon him nurso children at
tho point of death for 21 hours at
a tlmo with all tho caro and pntlonco
of a mother. Ho said Dr. Ormsby
didn't dlo too soon. That no man
dies too soon. Ho died at tho right
tlmo and Just as he wanted to. Ho
died at tho closo of a successful day
after his labors had been completed.
Miss Nora Eliason sang a solo.
Elder Joseph Qulnnoy, Jr. said, ho
romomberod Dr. Ormsby ns the lead
ing flguro In all public demonstra
tions In Logan for many years, and
that thoso who wero fortunnto to
know him nt that tlmo got from his
llfo tliolr llrBt lossons In culture Ho
was a leader in culturo, refinement
nnd homo building as woll as In all
that ho undertook to do.
Elder A. O. Barber expressed his
appreciation on tho behalf of tho
family of tho sympathy and respect
shown nnd said It was ovldont that
Dr. Ormsby had not lived In vain.
Ho was Improssed with the fact that
In attondonco woro hundreds of
frlonds of his actlvo llfo, men and
women who know him, that know his
llfo, nnd recognized In him tho qunll
I tlos that mado thorn frlonds.
Tho choir under tho direction of
B. H. ROBERTS
ACKNOWLEDGES
HE MADE ERROR
Mr. Goorgo Itomney, Jr.
Chairman Democratic Campaign
Committee,
Cacho County, Logan, Utah.
My dear Mr. Itomney:
At two or three of our meetings
in Cacho County I stated that the
Republican Flank in tho Stato Flat
form did not fix a definite time at
which tho prohibition law they pro
posed to pass would go Into effect.
I spoko from recollection In tho mat
ter, and on returning to Salt Lako
City nnd examining the Republican
Platform on anothor subject I dis
covered that I was in error, and that
the platform provided for tho pro
posed Republican legislation on pro
hibition going Into effect SIX
MONTHS AFTER ITS ENACTMENT.,
I think It Is only fair to my Ro.
publican friends to publish this .let
ter as a card from mo making this
correction, as I would not havo my
Republican friends think for ono mo
ment that I would intentionally nils
represent their platform.
' This statement shoulubo publish
ed In both papers In Logan whother
Republican speakers or their press
tako notlco of my error or not.
Respectfully yours,
for a fair campaign,
. II. H. ROBERTS.
Salt Lako City, Utah,
October 28, 1916.
Elder Samuol B. Mltton sang an nn
them after which tho benediction
was pronounced by Elder W. II. Ap
perly. An nutomobilo cortago convoyed
tho funeral party to the City Ceme
tery whero tho remains woro Interred.
JACOB WEST
DIED SUNDAY
ATJAKLAND
Jacob West, formerly of Logan,
died on Sunday at 2 o'clock after
Roveral weeks of Illness of Brlghts
Dlseaso. Tho remains will be ship
ped to Logan for lntorment. Tho
burial will tako place In this city
on Thursday. Mr. West was In Oak
land. California at tho tlmo of death.
By his side were his sous, Will J.
West of Pocatello and Charles West
of Chesterfield nnd his daughter Mrs.
N Ralph Moore of Corwallls, Oregon.
Death occured nt tho homo of his
daughter, Mrs. Yeatmnn.
Jacob West would havo been 85
years of ago had ho lived until No
vember 1th of this year. Ho was
widely known In Cacho Valley hav
ing mado his homo here for a num
ber of years In Logan. His property
Interests In Logan havo been rather
extensive. He recohtly sold to tho
Union Knitting Mills tho property on
which now stands tho now factory
building on West Center Street.
Mr. West wns once a rancher
at Chesterfield, Idaho whoro he was
very successful In tho cattlo busi
ness. He was for a number of years
a director of tho Thatcher Brothers
Bank and had n credit of upwards
of $30,000 on his personal note.
Peoplo who know Jacob West, know
him to bo a man of his word, a man
who could absolutely bo relied upon.
Ho reared a good family, as all will
testify who aro acquainted with tho
children.
Tho Rlter drug storo window car
ries tho first bulletin from the Rex
all stores, giving the straw voto tak
en over tho country. Tho first bul
letin slightly leads for Wilson. There
aro n few Hughes states not yet reported.
Reasons Why Hughes Should Be Elected
i' "
BECAUSE ho stands for Protection, Prosperity, Froi.nrednc.ss nnd Patri
otism. BECAUSE ho will not permit partisanship to triumph over Patriotism,
BECAUSE his speech of acceptance expresses his desire to co-operate with
lnbor for its advantage, not to exploit it for his own.
BECAUSE ho will command tho respect of Europe nnd Asia nnd win
tho friendship of Latin-America.
BECAUSE he will never by proclamation deny the right of Americans
to pursue their business in other lands under the protection of the
American flag.
BECAUSE lie will not repudiate tho American Aug in any land.
BECAU US he will not put ration into words, but uords into nation.
BECAUSE, ns Theodora lfoosevelt well says, he has high hentiments
of justice and dignity, is upright and straightforward, is an incon
testable master of judicial matters, nnd always translates his words
into deeds.
BECAUSE he is a strong, sure, courageous man, with a clear-cut program
before him and with the courage, intelligence and determination to
carry it out and bring to our country i-elf-respecting penco and
world-wide respect.
BECAUSE ns Governor of New York ho has already proved that ho
dared to do tho right thing, nnd is prepared to further do and dare
when culled into a wider field.
BECAUSE he is not a dreamer nnd not a quitter.
BECAUSE ho is a firm friend of preparedness for tho United States
and not for preparedness through political expediency.
BECAUSE he will not burden us with war taxes in time of peace.
BECAUSE wo need a tariff not founded upon free trade, nor for "reve
nue only," but to protect American labor and American industry
from the deadly competition of tho foreigner.
BECAUSE he is u red-blooded American. His policy will be "America
first, America elllejeiit."
BECAUSE ho can bo depended upon to keep platform pledges.
BECAUSE he will protect this country ngaiust being Hooded with the
cheap manufactures of Europe after tho war.
BECAUSE ho is tho clioton head of a party which has long fathered
all "great conslructio legislation which experience has proved to
be wise and which lias invariably been opposed by tho Democratic
party.
BECAUSE a business man is going to be especially needed in the next
few years. In eoiiscqucnco of tho European war a tremendous read
justment of tho world's business is ahead. Tho United States must
bo economically prepared. It must not, ns now, bo left defensc
kw. It must not have a President with an untrained business
mind, ever changing. 51r. Hughes mado a remarkable record as
a business Goernor-of New York. He has extraordinary ability
. to see all sides of a question. Not from him, as from Wilson, will
bo heard any declaration that he will hang business men "high as
Hainan" if thoy do not agree with him.
BECAUSE ho is a man of forward vision, of practicability and firmness,
not a uiere rhetorician ami theorist.
BECAUSE ho stands for tho protection of American lives and property
abroad as well as at home.
BECAUSE through him tho whole nation will bo in the Government.
It will not be ruled by ono section, nor by ono man.
BECAUSE ho is for an effective not an unsouud and sham system
of rural credits to help tho farmer and for a wiso eonsorvntiou of
natural resources.
BECAUSE ho is ffir a federal workingmen's compensation law suitable
for the employes of tho Government, and thoso employes engaged
in interstate commoreo and subject to the hazard of injury.
BECAUSE ho favors investigating before legislating.
REPUBLICAN
RALLYS IN THE
COUNTYTONIGHT
Congressman Mondoll of Wyoming
Is In Cacho County and will hold
Republican rallys ns follows:
fSinIthnold nnd Hydo Park tonight.
Timothy C. Hoyt, Republican candi
date for Congress In tho First Con
greslonal district will accompany
Congressman Mondoll. Thero will bo
a plcturo show In connection with
tho rally at Hydo Park which will
commence at 7:30 p. m. sharp.
Tho rally at Snilthflold will bo at
at 8 o'clock sharp.
Tho Republican quartet will furnish
tho music. No ono should miss hear
ing thoso speakers.
At Wellsvlllo Thursday at 2:30
p. m. Miss Hclon Todd of Now York
will speak under tho auspices of tho
Wellsvlllo Women's Republican club.
Miss Todd Is ono of tho best speak
ers that has visited tho county dur
ing tho campaign. Good music will
bo furnished.
At Mlllvlllo thero will bo n Repub
lican rally Wednesday evening nt 8
o'clock. Lon J. Haddock and others
will speak. Good music. Everyone
Invited.
Republican rally at Nowton, Fri
day night at 8 o'clock. Lon J. Had
dock and others lo speak. Music
will bo provided. Good nttendonco
desired.
Republican rally at Lowlston, on
Thursday, November 2nd, nt 8 p. m.
Miss Helen Todd 6f New York will
speak. Miss Todd is a 'speaker of
National reputation. Good music.
Republican rally at Richmond Fri
day night nt 8 o'clock. James Do
vlne of Salt Lake and Herschel Bul
len of Lognu tho speakers. Good
nruBic.
Potted Plant Sale at
the Blue Bird Wednes
day and Thursday
Clii-j.sniitlicmtims In bloom that
ulll Inst until tho Iiolldii) nt 7c
eiicli. Beautiful Boston Kerns that
add 11 lunch of summer lo the home.
Itni'o specimens unci unheard of val
ues nt $1.00 each.
Adv.
RICHMOND NEWS
Ghosts, gobbllns, brownies nnd
fairies aro again hovering nbout for
it Is Hnllowo'en nnd tho season for
all theso beings. Then lot us ono
and all bo In tune with tho season,
bo a child with tho children and
thus retain that youthful spirit so
becoming to advancing years, and
presorver to health and happiness.
Lot ua never grow too old to enjoy
tho childhood pleasures nor over got
too wise to Incrcaso tholr Joy bv
Joining In tholr games and pleas
ures. Friday evening tho N. C. II. S. gavo
a Ilallowo'un party at tho Opera
Houko ,tho guests wero taken thru
dark mysterious tunnels and met by
tho season's most curious beings,
utter this Imitation dancing was In
dulged In and a most Jolly oveulug
was spont.
Mrs. Hortenso Shepard ontortnin
ed Saturday ovonlng nt n candy In
honor of her daughter Nnoma.
About 25 kiddles wero prosont to
partake, of tho fun of such nn oc
casion. Tho Primary association will glvo
n masquarado danco Tuesday at 1 p.
111. This danco Is for the purpose of
collecting tho nlcklo fund. Parents
nro admitted froo while other spec
tators aro charged tho nlcklo. Frizes
will bo awarded tho best girl and
boy costumo.
Tho mother of Mrs. Ralph Van
Noy Is visiting with her daughter
hero.
According to tho papers Mr.
Thomas Ashmeut and Mhs Julia
Burgeson of Lowlston hnvo agreod
to Journey down tho path o fllfo to
gether. Their inaiiy friends oxter tf
congiutulutlonB.
Mr, Jos. Thompson nnd wife with
Mrs. Eliza Shepard motorod to
(Continued on Pago Eight)
CHIROPRACTOR I
FROM QGDEN IS I
HERE TODAY I
; 1
F. J Frecnor, D. C. who has been SABJ
the object of medical prosecution In IBB
tho Stato of Utah for tho past three t:H
years, will explain tho principles of bB
Chlroprntlc In a public lecture to- I L
night. ' S
Mr. Froenor Is a man of exception- ' pH
al personality nnd practical ability, $BB
last year ho had tho largest practlco j EjWb
or any Chiropractor In tho United Ul
States, during his four years practlco IH
at Ogdon ho has adjustod over 5000 IH
peoplo. It Is becauso of his success jl
that ho has been enjoined from prnc- ll
ttco by tho medical profession, nnd Ll
Is now giving his tlmo that tho scl- H'l
enco of Chlroprntlc may not be ' ijH
crushed in Utah by tho Medical 11
Music for the evening will bo fur- I jH
nlshed by a first class flvo-plcco or- U
chestra. Mr. Chadwlck tho local H
Chiropractor who has bcon making IH
nrrangomonts stntcs that everyono jH
over 14 years of ago is Invited to i H
attend. Admlslon free. M
SERVICES OVER I
REMAINS OF 1
HAZEL CRANNEY 1
rl
Funeral services woro held yester- . WM
day afternoon In tho First, Ward 11
meeting room over tho romnlns of ) WM
Miss Hnzel Cranney, whoso death oc- j IH
cured on Wednesday of last week. I jH
Announcements wero out announcing IH
tho mnrlago of Miss Cranney which ' H
was to hnvo taken placo on Thursday H
26. Tho death occur'lng so BUdden- H
ly nnd unexpectedly wns a tromen- H
dous shock to nil her rolatlves and t-H
.friends. A largo crowd attended tho H
funeral, to show their lovo and res- jll
pect to tho deceased and her rein- i jH
tivos. Bishop B. M. Lewis npenod H
with prayer. Mrs Virginia Batcson i flH
Athay sang a solo. Josoph E. Car- I H
don n llfo-Iong neighbor spoko in H
highest terms of tho oxomplary lifo f H
and lino womanly qualities of this H
estimable young indy. Mr. Klrham ilH
sang "O My Father" In a very touch- ''nl
lug manner. Prcsldon tJosoph Quln- lRcl
noy followed nfforlng consolation to I .BtH
tho bereaved family and paying a nl
very fine tribute to tho momory of ijHfl
Miss C ran noy. Roscoo Hess sang In :i9
his clear and musical tones "Nearer 'nl
My God to Thee." Wlllard Crannoy, 'X'l
a brother of tho deceased was tho jefll
next speaker and after assuring that Hl
all things are over-ruled for good $
that "not ono sparrow falls to tho ' MH
ground unnoticed" thanked all who H
had In any way assisted In this hour , ??
of bereavement. Mr. and Mrs. Lew &fl
Bailey sang very beautifully "Some- ufl
tlmo Wo'll Understand." Mr. Gcorgo m
Blood of Preston spoko In tho here- ISvfl
after. Tho services woro dismissed '?
by Heber Maughau. Interment was Wm
mado In tho city comotury. , B
CLARKSTON " 11
CLIPPINGS I
'M
Clarkston, October 30. Our Prim-
nry association will hold tholr annu- '
nl meeting on Saturday November 4,
at 2 p. m. A short program will bo I
rondored also a social and refresh- , M
monts for tho children. All mothers jfl
nro Invited to attend.
It will bo held In tho basement Mil
of tho mooting house." II
Mr. and Mrs. Ephrlam Malmberg Mil
aro rojolclng ovor the arrival of a Wm
now son. All aro doing nicely, !
Wo nro pleased to stato tho sick- fiV
ncss that has boen in our midst has
all rocovered and tho ones that havo
boon under quarantine, nro again mo- ' fM
vlng around. Hi
Mr. George Godfrey from Floldlng II
wns seon Dying around visiting with Ml
frlonds nnd rolatlves on Tuesday. jFifl
Clark Bros., Vernon and- Paul, ifl
havo purchased themselves a new ilH
car. They mado a, (lying trip out to H
Ilnnsel Valley and back Sunday. !
Mr. John E. Godtroy nud J. L. 'H
.Atkinson have both purchased them- iH
uilves now cars. iH
