A ??,! ih Newipaper for t*. Horn. I V V 1 1 111 IXI*X THE WEST VIRGINIAN
JforthenW at Virgam**<^ Newspaper ' - BRINGS TRADE | 5
TUESDAY EVENING. OCTOBER 31. 1916. "' ...e. .?T,
HALLOV
MANY RFUITIFIII
Ill I Wkl IV WBa
COSH ID BE
SEED III PARADE
Judges Will Award Gold
Prizes to Most Original
Couples.
%> Ilir rnn.^TT, ?? ? tl
LINi rUhldafll CJUr.M.
Main Street Will Be Given
Over to Hallowe'en
Masqueraders.
" 'Tls the last night in October
And no ono scarce is sober,
In carefree Joyous revels
Mingle spiritB men and devils."
?Old Ballad.
A shifting, scintllnting mass of color
and light; a blaring blatant tooting
and honking of horns; music and
laughter and sluging; gay, grotesque,
beautiful exotic, costumes; fun, jollity
and good humor?such will bo the big
Hallowe'en parade tonight.
Mrs. John Gordon Smythc, of the
Woman's Club; II. J. Rosa, president of
mo Chamber ot commerce, ami ircvy i
Nutter, secretary of llie Uuslness
Men's Association, arc the jr. Iges who
will present the gold pieces for the
most original costumes.
Five dollars in gold will be the
award (or the couple In tbu most original
male and rcmale costume. It does
not matter whether or not tliey arc
of the sex they arc dressed to represent.
A two dollar and a half gold
piece will be the prize for the next
most original pair, there will be 110
prizes awarded to single costumers.
The order ot march announced last
v. night by the V. At. ('. A. officials in
cicnarge of the parade was: City ot'fl Xlals,
judges, baud. Normal students,
*'mohntod poi.ee, boy scouts, parade of*
ficlals, High school. V. M. C. A. boys,
grammar school children, and other
rrganizatlons. The route Is from Kirs
- sthcet up Fairmont avenue to Fifth, to
Walnut avenue to First, to First anil
Fairmont avenue to ..miii street.
The Normal students foriii 011 Gaston
avenue I11 front of the dormitory;
the High school on First street between
Fairmont and Gaston avenues:
Y. M. U. A. boys directly behind the .
High school; graded school children
on Second street between Fairmont
find Walnut avenues; all unorganized
marchers on First street between Fairmont
and Walnut avenues. 7:30 Is
the time for each group to form.
Main street from Cleveland avenue
to Quincy street will bo roped off for
Abe hiorry makers, nothing lieing al- j
lowed on the street at that tlmo but i
Btreet ears. When it was seen that
the parade would he approximately a
mile long without them, it was decided
to dispense with the automobile
feature.
Officers and members of the prize
awarding committee alone will be al,
.lowed to lead the parade in autos.
VIRGINIAN!! PRFPARF
rfipw ?? ? w *
F1LOM SPILL
Saloons In Old Dominion
Will Go Out of Business
Tonight.
lit-'' ?~
(By Assoclnted Press)
f> RICHMOND, Va? Oct. 31?This was
the last day on which Intoxicating
beverages may be sold legally In Vlri
^-glnla. At midnight tonight the new
prohibition law goes Into effect and
about 800 saloons In the state will
r (WTO UU3CU LUB1T UUUTU IU1 LIIO lOSl
?: time.
' Many had closed today because their
I stock had been exhuusted. Reports
(rom all parts ot the state today told
- - et large quantities ot liquor being stor'
ad away la homes ot citizens in anticipation
ot. a dry state. In this city,
thousands ot gallons are said to have
. been delivered to private homes.
1 The law stipulates that a person
1 may order from another state but one
-' quart of whiskey per month, three gallons
of beer or one gallon of wine. This
: yight remains to be tested In court.
P VT TT
^uroiuiaiiiy nuw nas
Munitions Problem
(Br Associated Preart
. ;;f BERLIN, Oct. 81.?The creation ot a
w department of munitions as a compliment
to the ministry of war was an:
Bounced today. The new organisation
will have charge of the work of
the securing raw materials for ammunttlon
and other war supplies and ot
. looking after the foedlng of munition
C' Jrorkar*.
I/E'EM DEIIEI Tf
IL Lll I1LVLL 11
Shall the Corporations Rule?
(An Editorial.) "
WHILE the present campaign issue in this county is a moral
one that in the state at large is a matter of social justice,
lioiled down to a sentence it is, Shall the corporations
or the people rule in West Virginia?
To properly understand this issue one must review briefly
the political and economic history of the state. For a brief
period after a state government was erected in West Virginia
j members of the Republican party held the important offices.
Then, in 1871, the pendulum swung to the other side of the
political dial, and Democrats took charge. This second period
lasted until 1897.
During the Democratic period the middle west witnessed its
wonderful metamorphosis from an exclusively agricultural to
uu industrial condition, the prairie States were peopled and became
wealthy, and the great northwest was developed. This
great empire building movement passed West Virginia by, so
! that when the people woke tip to a realization of their actual
conditio!!, a few vcncs hack lliev tViiiixl tlmt ttu.e ..
yivwucu ai, anu it uugau iu taiw oiuua Ui CUUUIllUilS 111 II1C SlUlCi
It found, first, that the corporations which were taking millions
of dollars out of the West Virginia hills, robbing the people through
pluck-ine stores and generally running matters with a high hand
bad. little better standing from a moral point of view than common
thieves. They were shipping away tho heritage of the people and
puttiiy; every cent of the proceeds into their own pockets, carrying
it clear outside the border to spend it in many Instances. They were
using the power of the government at Charleston and of the state
courts in their private business and the people were paying the bills.
....... .. .... o^.v .uv>u M uvIT aubV/ivob 111 pUilUCB^ X 1113
congressional elections of two years ago dampened their ardor considerably,
but they 8till felt/ that there was a chance for them to
restore the conditions that existed back in the days of MacCorkle
and his immediate predecessors, and plans were carefully made to
capture the state government at the election which will be held next
Tuesday. How well these plans haTe been working out 1b a matter
of such recent history that it is scarcely necessary to go into details
here. Every WeBt Virginian is familiar with the processes by which
the men who for years had been the nominal heads of the Democratic
organization were brutally humiliated and crushed so that there
might not be any question aB to the corporation control of that organization,
and how, later, low Intrigue was resorted to In an effort
to destroy the morale of the Republican party.
Whether this elaborately planned and bold assault upon the interests
of the public will succeed depends entirely upon the voters. It
is beginning to look as If the corporations had abandoned hope of
winning anything more than the executive power this year, but the
voters may depend upon it that if they get that much they will be
like the camel of Arabic fable who always managed to crowd his
whole bodv In If he was nermitted to not hie head und..
_ ? v ? ?? mhww* vue uui will J
of the tent. If they win anything at the election Tuesday progress
in this state will suffer a severe check. Cornwell's campaign throughout
Droves that the Idea he renresenta Is the veritable antitheain
progress. Not a single feature of the legislative program which the {
Republicans put through at the cost of tremendous effort would be
safe In his hands?the tax laws which compel the corporations to
par; the compensation law which also compels them to pay; the laws
which prevent them from exploiting the waterways and the other
natural resources of the state, all would be swept away If he had the '
power to do It, and the stato would be returned to the condition of
the eighty decade of the last century.
Are the people of West Virginia going to surrender to the forces
of reaction and loot? It they believe faithfulness to a trust and In- <
telllgence In public office are as worthy of the same continuance of 1
confidence that they command In private justness, they will not. ,
.. ?' ULLiaijijtliS* i iui?wjwa^??w**swiw?Jha
V "
' . :J?. ' .
v . .. "L:k -/v
(|Hnrtcr of ? century, at least, behind the march of progress.
There were a number of reasons for this hiatus in the national
growth. Not the least potent of them was the fact that the state
government was feeble, narrow visioned and reactionary in Its tendencies.
No attempt was made to lead, and affairs naturally drifted
Into the hands of the corporations which had been organized to develop
the boundless natural resources of the state.
These corporations for the most part were unenlightened and
heartless. All of them were greedy almost beyond belief. Under
their rule West Virginia was exploited as ruthlessly, so far as the
natural wealth was concerned, as Mexico was under the early rule
of the Spanish and with almost us little care for the welfare of the
people as the agents of King LeoDold gave to the inhabitants of thn
Congo valley. It is true baby hands were not chopped oft and women
were not publicly whipped to death, but the people were robbed
with as little compunction and what happened to the men who went
into the mines to provide bread for the mouths ot their little onefj and
came out human wrecks had best be left unsaid. Nor is it necessary
to call attention to what happened to those who were exploited to
the limit ot human endurance and were then cast aside as useless
to subsist upon the charity of their friends or accept a public dole.
Finally there was a revolt that succeeded. The Republican party
returned to power. It was not the Republican party that Lincoln
knew, nor yet the Republican party that tne Granger and Progressive
movements had breathed a new soul into?the Republican party of
1916?but the idea of government and sense of obligation to the
people which it brought with it was a vast Improvement upon what
Laterally hundreds ol' tliem were rolling In wealth which the Almighty
placed here to be o? service to His people?and dodging !
the tax collector. In the long, and frequently black, history of corporations
in this country there is no episode more contemptible.
No hog ever left a comfortable wallow with more reluctance than
the West Virginia corporations displayed when they were compelled
to relinquish the special privileges and immunities they had been
enjoying. A period ensued during which the people fought on one
side to make the corporations pay their share of the cost of government
gnd to compel that government to become more enlightened
and progressive; more like the governments in the states to the
I north and west of them, and the corporations fought on the other
ulrln tn iimintnin lltn ulnhiu fiiut 1 /iwIftntAoo ~?t??t-ti- I
kv k?V BHtkHU <1?". UVb'B'BWa U 11U UlUVl yUUHU 8 U I~
vants were corrupted, and at times the issue looked doubtful. But
eventually the day began to go for the people and from that time
West Virginia began to go forward along all lines. Industrially, educationally,
agriculturally especially, by long and spectacular strides.
The "interests" by that,time were beginning to pay and some progross
was effected toward making them adopt more humane and just
measures In their relations with their employes and the public in
general. West Virginia was beginning to be a progressive state in
every sense of the word.
How strong the progressive sentiment is and how generally it is ,
held was shown in 1912 when the great schism in the Republican
party occurred. In West Virginia as in every other Republican state
that partisan disputo split the Republican party wide open and the
Democrats carried the state for their national ticket although Doctor
Hatdeld was elected Governor. Before that time the Democratic
party had become the party of the special Interests in West Virginia
nnrl the Rnoreqa nf 1019 1,0,70 their, n noil, Inta...* I- ? ?11 m,._
WIGHT
1
MIEHMIBIHSI
ON THE MUHNA
I
But Secretary Lansing Is '
Not Yet Ready to Talk I
About It.
1
(By Assoctatcd Preas) i
WASHINGTON, Oct. 31.?Secretary i
Lansing said today that his report on
the destruction ot the British ship
Marina with probably loss of American
Uvea still were too Incomplete to permit
ot any conclusion which would
allow him to discuss the case. Fuller
reports with affidavits of American
Burvlvore have been ordered by cable.
This morning's news dispatches
saying some of the survivors had seen
the wake of a torpedo and that the
Bhlp was Btruck twice, added gravity i
to the situation. Officials noted, how- '
on ah -iket *k/> T> wl t f a Vi orfmlrelt,,
uvoi, mat bua utuiau auuuau; naa
not prepared to say the ship was torpedoed
and that Consul Frost's report
yesterday said It was destroyed by
gun fire.
The case is being handled directly
by Srecretary Lansing himself and any
further facts will be given out through ;
him when made public.
AMERICANS AMONG MISSIN& J
LONDON, Oct 31.?The number of i
missing from the British steamer Mar- 1
In a which was torpedoed by a subma- .
nne on uie insu cousi uu now ueun
reduced to 13 according to a telegram
received at the American embassy to- j
lay from Wesley Frost, American consul
at Quenatown.
Mr. Frost reports that among the 13
thec?>jirobabljuwlll be American fatal- I
at
Kansas Natural Gas
Sale Plan Announced
STOCKHOLD6BSL,91ILL GET FORTY
DOLLARS A SHARE
FOR HOLDING8.
I
I
(By Associated Press')
nrisBUKUii, oct. 31.?rians tor
the sale ot the Kansas Natural Gas
company whose properties are chiefly
In Kansas, were announced hero today
by John C. Bartlett, secretary of
the Stockholders' Protective commit- ,
tee. The committee. Mr. Bartlett said,
hail entered Into a contract with Henry ;
L. Doherty and Company of New York,
for the purchase of all slock at $40 a 1
share, provided the committee will
have 40,000 shares deposited in a vol- ;
ing trust and provided Doherty and J
Company can secure from the Public j
Utilities Commission of Kansas permission
to carry out the plan
When the required number of shares
has been deposited with the Colonial '
Trust company ot Pittsburgh, $15 a 1
share will be paid uepositors and the
remainder in 90 days with 6 per cent. 1
Interest. Doherty and Company are 1
also to pay the expenses of the committees.
'
TO BE J
OWE'EN MYSTER
CHAIRMAN GAINES
fflEiumuirjnnv
i ncaniiv muiujii
Says Republicans Will Carry
State by Splendid Majorities.
f By Associated Press)
CLARKSBURG, \V. Va., Oct. 31?
'One week front today it will be a
Republican.victory." declared Republican
State chairuiun Joseph Holt
Gains today.
"Hughes will ride into the White
House on such a wave of popular sentiment
as will hearten the patriotic
[tcople of tlte nation and give them a
feeling of relief that the destinies of
the Repubic are again in- safe hands.
West Virginia will he well in the front
of the procession of great states back
of Hughes and Fairbanks.
"There isn't a shadow of a doubt
about Hughes carrying this State.
Judge Robinson will win by an equal
majority and if there is any man of
any party who thinks there is or ever
was a chance to defeat Howard Sutherland
he has succeeded remarkably
well in keeping that opinion to himself.
His election is as generally conceded
now as it was a month ago.
"I have just returned from a visit
In Mercer, McDowel land Fayette
counties. I found the party organization
in those three counties highly
satisfactory and there is unquestioned
assurance that the forecast of loyal
leaders of large Republican gains in
thee counties over four years ago will
be splendidly realized. Ten days ago
r? mnat rflmarlfflhL awlnn nf nnkllo
sontlment towards the Republican ticket
set In the nation at largo and in
West Virginia with especial force. It
Is still swinging our way.' We have
won the fight and we are ready for
the verdict, sure that it will be In
Dur favor with an emphasis."
GOV. HIE WITH
JUDGE ROBINSON
Republican Candidate Accorded
Flattering Reception
in Preston.
??es?
(Special Dispatch to West Virginian!
TERRA AliTA. Oct. 31-Judge Ira
E. Robinson lett here this morning
Cor an automobile tour ot Tucker
county. Yesterday he was accorded
the biggest reception ever given a
candidate for governor In Preston
County.
Accompanied by ex-Oovernor A. B.
White of Parkersburg and Hon. Mike
King of Elkins he toured this county
yesterday making fourteen speeches
pickup from morning papers.
Pal tome new blood in the county
government and stop the favoritism.
Elecf Republican candidates.
IOYOUS
! 1 ^
Kentucky Oil
Prices Are Cut
FOR THE FIRST TIME PITTSBURGH
QUOTATIONS ARE CHANGED
ONLY IN PART. -I
(By Associated Press)
PITTSBURGH. Oct. 31. ? For the
first time in the history of the crude
oil market changes in quotations were
announced today on a part of the list
quoted in Pittsburgh without affecting
the entire list. The changes were
in Cabell and Somerset, each of which
lost 5 cents a barrel, the former to
32.07 and the latter to 31.90.
The face quotations of 32 60 for Pennsylvania
crude was unchanged. Oil
authorities declared that Cabell oil
which comes from the Kentucky border
counties of West Virginia and
SlMBPrfiM which io n If ttnttvnhv rvil
been offered In such quantities to reliners
as to warrant the reduction.
Dakota Coal Property
Auctioned Today
The nronfirtw of fho nnVofn foni
and Coke company which was being
sold at auction today from the Marion
county court house had been bid up
to $220,000 nt three o'clock this afternoon.
Tho sale began at 10 o'clock thlB
morning and the bids progressed by
slow $500 Jumps to the hi Alt price.
Appraisers valued tho property at
$230,000. It consists of three acres
of surface, one acre of Pittsburgh
coal and 90 of Sewlckley held in feo
and 270 of Pittsburgh coal on a lease
held from the Jamison Coal company.
The bidders were Geo. E. Amos and
C. D. Robinson. A number of out of
town coal operators were present and
bid on the .property but dropped out
when the price reached $140,000.
REPUBLICAN MEETINGS TONIGHT
Republican rallies will be held tonight
at Rivesville and Klngmont and
tomorrow night at Fairview, Mlnersvllle
and Quiet Dell school houses.
The speakers for these places will be
ox-Senator Alex. R. Campbell, W. S.
Meredith, Rollo Conley, E. M. Showalter,
Brooks Hutchinson, J. A. Meredith,
A. O. Stanley and Paul Arm
strong.
The Weather
West Virginia?Generally fair tonight
and Wednesday not much
change in temperature.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P; Hall, Observer
Temperature at 8 a. m. today 42. j
Yesterday's weather clear; temperature,
maximum 78; minimum 41; pre-'
cipltation none.
j TO ALL SUBSCRIBERS OF WEST i
VIRGINIAN AT BELLVIEW AND
BARNSTOWN.
Our collector will call oa you
November 1, 1916 and collet (or
the month of October.
v M. D. PRICKETT.
. ....... ? (
TJIfl RIDDLES if
a CHUM
III 1LEGT1
VVai* Prmliimil Pt?AowA??l * ?
T( U? A ivruuWU JL * VJ lA^I apl > VjM
Where Underwood Bill
% Brought Poverty. <V ffiiM
COUNTRY EDS HUGHES 1
| Wilson Vacillation Due,
His Desire for
(Special Dispatch to West Vlrgtal?i) : '
NEW YORK, Oct. 31.?Former Praia '
dent William H. Tatt, answering lav:iPM
inquiry from Spokane (Washinrt/MV;
why he is on the stump for Hu*hes, v3m3H
t r?l ntrru nlinrl no fnl !#< ..>.. '
?vaur>l U)/IIUU UC luiiunoi ^
"Mr. Wilson bases his claims
election on the prosperous condition
of the country and on the, speolooa.S'r^S
plea 'lie kept ub out of war.' The bodlp.^^yjl
try Is prosperous In spots because of -'ji "S
the European war?for which'Mr. Wit
son Is not responsible?which has glv- S?K
en to our Industries the protection of''. fSH
which his Underwood tariff bill dSS g]
prlvcd them and which has sttmluated .i'ijj
in unheard of measure the exportation' *
of American products entering Into
the prosecution of the war operations,
of Europe, what our fate would har<7.>ft t3M
been under the Underwood tariff Is
shown by the devastation that abcOm- . ?l5jgj
panted tho ton months of actual 'en-*
forceiuent. the destruction of Anterl- flffl
can industries, tho pitiful conditional . 'ijS
the unemployed and the establishment . %
of bread lines and free soup houses. ' . / '
Tile fictitious nrnsnei-ttv ana .n
^5-^0?w??Mrr^ff3jm
creased exports will collapse With the ?9
rapidity o( a cable dispatch at ths ; ~*S
close of the war. When that crisis * V . .law
confronts this country the Republican .
party and a man of courage and COO- ^-3Pg|B
vlcltlon. Charles E. Hughes, must 64. V.':S
on guard to meet and conquer lfc-./i'W
"Mr. Wilson did not keep lis ont of ; > f
war. We kept out of the European" i';f4
war because we wanted none of
horrors and because none pt the
erents loslsted on dragging us ln/and;
he brought us into war with Meaflco ,
because his policy there from the be- \ ^
ginning was one of officious lnttew't
meddling which is responsible for the .'*]
distressing situation now existing and .
which if not superseded by'the sane- 2,
ness and deep sense of Justice that"^ -i |B
distinguished Charles E. Hughes will ' jj
Inevitably drag us forward to OVStt.
greater humiliation.
"Mr. Wtlson deserves condemns--V>2fa
tlon for his course of vacillation jjatfe-?3
trlbutablo in nearly every exigency. to 'C'aSH
a desire for votes rather than to a.ro^2?BHwM
gard for the Interests of all the peopled-fJ&Sffl
"Mr. Hughes deserves support hs av/p^l
man whoso record shows that he txans-, -v.Ks
uiua vuutivliUU IUIU auiiua U11U .
be Is a man who will fight (or nrtnel.
pie. Ho Is thoroughly equipped. to
safeguard American Interests !h this
the most critical period in American,..
history Blnfce the days o( the Civil 1
WILSON OFF ON LA8T TRIP^'j^
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Oct..
President Wilson will leave here tOrs&3gm
night on his last trip of the campaign, .^
He will speak in Buffalo and New'H^S
York city and will shake hands wfm;&8a|M
station crowds at many cities ahd%$!
towns in New York Btate.
LABORERS ^ Wt
28c Per Hour ^
New Normal School grounds, ."."'.SI
Locust Avenue. .
NOTICE TO !
TAXPAYERS 3
The 1916 tax bookB are now com. jlw
pleted and ready (or collection. Thd
books (or all Districts will be (onnd.
Ulllfe daily nntU|.*g?|
Nov. 30th. tho close ot the discount"} i
period except Mannlngton district. {>>38
which, will be found at the Bank
of Mannlngton. Please pay todajtiaBBj
as 1 have more time to wait onjronjj^
now man later. .
C. D. CONAWAY,Sheri? p
NOTICE .4H
City taxes are now 'due- $$
and payable at the City . ,ft|
m ? y-N /*? -m ? T , J:
ireasurer s umce, monroe
street. A discount of
2i/2% will be allowed. |?
