Tuesday
-Tcieaday
AND.
AND rl
1 '
Friday
Afternoon
fridiiq
Afternoo
TRADE WHERE YOU LIVE OR LIVE WHERE YOU TRADE
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
EARLINGTON, HOPKINS COUNTY, H.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1916
No. 86
SECTION FORGE
TO BE-REDUCED
One Hundred Howell Shop
Men Laid Off Because of
. Scarcity of Work
Section Foreman Uallard, in
chargo of thoiouth end section,.
has received orclora to rcduco his
force of soction tnon to six men
Commencing Wednesday. As ho
works ten men this means tl;tU
four of his forco will loso thoir
positions.
Tho order will have no effect
on Section,Foroman Perdue, who
is chargo of tho section nortli of
Burlington.
Commencing Wednesday the
section will wprk only nino hours
nnd bo idlo in bad weather.
Orio hundred men employed in
tho Howoll shops of tho L. & N.
It. 11., havo boon laid off indef
initely. Tho reason assigned for
this actiou is tho scarcity of work.
Only ono of tho inon who wont
from hero to Howoll is affected
WHOLE FAMILY '
Day at M.-E. Church, South,
Sunday School Next Sun
day Morning
Next Sunday will be Whole Fam
ily Sunday at the M. E. Church,
South, Sunday school.
A trophy will be given the family
with the largest number in attend
ance. A trophy will also be given
every whole family that attends. All
who do not attend any olher Sunday
school are invited to be present with
thefntire'family.
Last Sunday the Philathea Class
sang a beautiful song, which was
greatly appreciated by all. Each Sun
day some special feature will be a
part of the regular program.
Kinclieloe Speaks Here
Thursday Evening
lion. D. II. Kinclieloe, of Mad
isonville, congressman from Hub
congressional district, will ad
dress tho voters of Earliugtou
Thursday night in tho intorcst
of tho Democratic party and of
his candidacy. lie ia an orator
of unusual ability and will no
doubt bo greeted by a Lugo
crowd. He will spoak at the op
era house.
Paper Suspends
Wo regrot that tho Webster
Journal-Press, a most roadablo
homo mado paper, published at
Olay, Webster county, has sus
peudod publication on account
of tho advanced cost of printing
matonal and tho Ivch of inter
and patronago ou tho part of
is of that town.
Wo deploro tho existing state
of affairs and r xtond sympathy
to tho euergotio management
who for many months, havo run
the paper atti financial loss.
ston
Republican Club Meeting
All llepublicans are invited, re
quested and urged to be present at
the city hall Saturday evening, Nov.
4. at 7:30 o'clock. This will be the
last meeting of the Hughes-Fairbanks
Fowler Olub and various items of im
portance'are to be brought before the
club relative to the vote Tuesday.
There will be a talk by some good
SDeaker for he club only. All Ke
publicans are asked to be on hand.
'MY CONCEPTION of THE PRESIDENCY
By CHARLES1 EVANS HUGHES
On the eve of Election Day the. American-people are entitled to a sum-
mary of things I have stood for in this campaign, as they are the things I
shall stand for as President. N
No man can tell in advance what unexpected demands the next four
years may present but one whose conception of the President's duty rests up
on fundamental principals can describe with entire sincerity how the prc-Tv
lems of administration would be approached and in what spirit they would
be solved.
A man charged with the duty of reaching a de?ired goal know's ilhat
the road to it is found in following that path which sound judgmen and
clear vision open up slep by step. I can show the road I expect to travel
1 propose first of all to start right. The President is primarily an ex
ecutive. It is his supreme duty to attend to the business of the nation, to
guard its interests, to anticipate its needs, to enforce its laws.
The first act of a President who takes this view of his" duties is to call
about him the ablest cabinet the .country can furnish, men who can deal
with the tremendous international and domestic problems which will con
front us in the next four years.
.My conception of the Presidency differs absolutely, from that of Mr.
Wilson. I look upon the President as the administrative head of the
Government. - He looks upon the President as primarily the political leader
and lawmaker of the nation. v ...
In the two departments of Government most closely touching our
foreign relations the Department of State and .the . Department of the
Navy he chose men whom he knew to be wholly Unequal to their duties.
Administrative obligation was subordinated to pplitical exigency. I can as
sure the country that any administration under my direction will stand upon
sound administrative ground with the ablest cabinet'te country can supply.
Across the road we are to travel this next four yearsj even though we
start right and move with prudence and courage, serious hazards are thrown
like breaks in a roadway made by a torrential rain. These all rise out of
the war torrent which has oveiwhelmed Europe. The first has to do with
our foreign relations. It is the President's duty to safeguard the interests of
our own nation and to preserve the friendship of every other nation.
No man is more determined than I to maintain the peace which UnitedH
States.-Spain Sweden, Norway and all the American xepublics now enjoy.
But I should seek to maintain that peace by a iirm and courteous insistence
on the rights of our citizens at home and abroad.
An American in Mexico is subject to Mexican law, but he is an Ameri
can still and is entitled to the protection of his own government in his law
ful business. For one I shall never consent to a policy which leaves Ameri
cans helpless against the lawlessness of any country in which they have a
right to do business.
There confronts labor in the next four years a condition more serious
than any that American laboring men have been called upon to face. When
this war began over a million American working men were seeking vainly
for employment. When the war ends and the developed energies of "a new
Europe are thrown into commercial producfion, our nation will face a com
petition such as it never knew.
One of the two things must happen-either millions of men will be seek
ing work in vain or else there must be thought out in advance the problem of
commercial organization as France and England and Germany are seeking
to think out the problem today. Every one of these nations is preparing to
defend its own market by a protected tariff. The end of the war will end
also the opportunities for labor created by the war. The millions in the
trenches today will be our industrial competitors tomorrow. If we are to
Save our laboring men from a catastrophe we must plan a tariff protection
t
along sound, just and economic lines To this endeavor I pledge mysel
and the men who are to be my colleagues.
In this matter again I differ absolufelyfrom the policy of the. present
administration. Democratic platforms have declared that the Government
has no right to levy taiiff duties except for income. This is the fundamental
faith of the Democratic party.
I pledge myself and those who stand with me to deal wifh the needs of
laboring nlen the country over, whatever their trade or organization, upon
the principle of giving the largest protection possibly to every American
working. man and the largest participation possible in the prosperity of our
industries with special favors to none.
Finally it is to be remembered that every Eurjpean government is put
ting itself behind its industries; organizing them, encouraging them and sug
gesting economies. When the commercial struggle begins anew, the indus
tries of every European country will go into the world markets backed by
the effective co-operation and intelligent oversight of their government.
Our national policy requires that government maintain a strict supervi
sioivof business organization. This can be done effectively and yet leave
the Government free to encourage legitimate and wholesome business enter
prise. I stand for such supervision and control of business, but I demand
also that business great or small (and especially the small business) be
treated fairly and justly. Only under such conditions can business" pay
living wages or compete with foreign manufacturers. ' ,
In this respect again the present 'administration holds a policy entirely
opposite. It has viewed business enterprise with suspicion andJjas made
the government a brake to stop the wheels of legitimate industrial progress.
It has treated the business men of this country as though they were suspi
cious characters. It has assumed that capital and labor are natural enemies.
In four years it has put this country further on the road to class war than
lias been accomplished in a generation before. The men who stand witn me
believe in the honesty of the American working nun, they believe no less in
the honesty of the American business man, and they believe that the com
mon good is to be found not in class war but in mutual justice and fair
dealing, not as batween capital and labor in the abstract but as between men
and men.
You know the road we have traveled this last four years. Mr, Bryan
and Mr. Daniels are its monuments of executive efficiency. Our murdered
and forsaken citizens in Mexico reveal a conception of American citizenship
plain enough to seebutanew one for American patrioism to adopt: the
monument of class bitterness raised by this .administration ttfffJws a sinister
shadow across our political horizon; theunjust accusation against business
men has left a bitter taste in our national life. If you prefer this path it is
plainly marked. And the end ofe it is class war.
You ask what road 1 propose to travel? These are the milestones
which mark it an executive responsible to the whole nation, a cabinet
chosen from the ablest Americans", a foreign policy that stands courteously
but firmly for American rights, a flag that protects the American in his law
ful rights wherever his legitimate business may take him, a preparation for
trade competition which shall protect all groups of American workmen, a
government oversight of business which will fearlessly eliminate abuses, but
will acf on the assumption that the average business man is honest, and
finally a domestic policy wuich looks to industrial peace, and to sound and
permanent prosperity based upon the development of American trade and
the building-up of Ameii:an industries.
We Americans are in one-boat." You cannot strike a blow at one group
without injury to all. Common justice and fair play will settle our difficul
ties if suspicion and bitterness are let ajpne. These are the principles by
which I propose to be guided.
LARGE CROWD
HEARD FAIRBANKS"
Local People Went to Nor-
tonvilleto Hear Distin-'
guished Hoosier
Folly 1,200 persons heard ex-
Vice President 0. W. Fairbanks,
of Indiana, Republican nominee)
for vico president, in a fifteen.
minutes address at Nortonville
Friday night. Ho mado a mas
terly talk ou tho protective tariff.
Ilon.iW. T. Fowler, Republi
can nominee for congress in this
congressional district, epoko prior
to Mr. Fairbanks.
A large number of local people
motored and went on train to
Norlonvillo to hear Mr. Flit.
banks.
CONTEST BEGINS
At Lodge Jloom of Victoria
.Lodge No. 84, K. of P.,
Last Evening
Last fcvculugjat tho lodee room
Victoria Lodge No. 81, Kuights
of Pythian, instituted a contest
between tho Reds aud tho Blues.
Attendance was, the only thine
that ontered into tho count, but
it is pojsiblo that othor things,
sucli as briugiug in new peti
tions, payment of dues, etc., will
be considered. The contest closes
Monday night, Doc. 18. Tho
Blues woro ahead with 20 points,
while tho Itjda had 25. Much
intorcst is being shown, nud tho I
contest promise to become very
warm,
Interesting tulks wore made by
a number of members nnd much
enthusiasm is boiug manifested
over the electiou of Dr. A. 0.
Sisk as Grand Marter'at Arms of
the Grand Lodge ot tho state.
The lodge is taking on renewed
Hfo and is preparing to avon ex
eel its remarkable effort of the
first six months of this jear,
with an incrpase of membership
of 30, all good men nnd trne, tho
verv bono and sinew ot tno com
'munity and neighboring- sister
towns. Victoria tiougo is in per
haps bettor condition than over
b'foro in her history.
N
0
T
C
TAXPAYE
The penalty goes on 1916 City Taxes De
v cember I. Save this penalty by pay
ing your taxes before this date
CHILD DEAD;
MOTHER STRICKEN
Grief Over Child's Illness
Causes Paralysis May
Prove Fatal
J. B. HAMBY
CoIIector
Revival Doing Good
Tho rovival is still in progress
at the M, E. church and much
good is boinj done. There have
.been a number ot conversions
and, tho ohuroh has been greatly
revived.
A sunrise service was held
Sunday morning and there was
a largo attendance of tho mem
bers.
Rav. J. L. Burton has au
nounced there will be an overall
uigtit before tho rovival ends.
Men will bo expeoted to come to
ehurch wearing overalls while
tho women will be asked to wear
calico dresses.
18
How fate has sorely dealt
with ono family js ovinced in
Webster county, where a girl is
dead and her mother is suffering
from a paralytic stroke, duo to
grief over her daughter's fatal
illness.
Lilian Steverson, agod
years, succumbed, to typhoid
pneumonia Monday after a brief
illness. Mrs. Stevorson rievo
so over the condition of her
daughter that she waB stricken
with paralysis severnl hours bo
foro tho child died and may not
;ecover.
The family lives mar Outon
and tho girl was a niece of Mrs
Mattie Dunning, of this city
who attended the funeral today
it you Know ot an item ot news
that would interest your neighbors,
don't withhold it from us tell us
If you know what they know, and
they know what you know, and ever
body knows what everybody else
knows, we will all know everything
there is to know. That's why we
publish this paper. Tell us.
He Went, Saw
And Gonquerei
Ool. W. A. Toombs responded
to a request of the Fordsvillo
Masonic Iodgo to attend a meet
ing of that body last Saturday-
night and put on some degree
work'for thorn.
He landed on time and poured
the nine parts of Bpeech upon the
defenceless Misons who listened
with pendant optics and dilated
months to the lingual downponc
till a late hour.
Sunday ho preyed upon his old
friend, ElmeraLynn, who to saro
himself and his family from in
sanity, decoyed tho loquaoious
guest into an auto and spent tho
day cruising over the country
visiting the neighboring towns
and villages, keeping up a rata
of speed that mado conversation
impossible.
Sunday night he tortured his.
old friend, Andy Howell, who ia
self preservation, induced him to
visit an upheaval of tho "Holy
Rollers," tho only poople that be
will take off his hat to in tho way
of lingo.
He is lond in his praiso of
Fordsvillo and its citizens and
declures his intention to afflict
them again in the near fatura
with another visit,
Glose Gall From Dealii
1
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Phenix, of
tho country, had a close call
from death Saturday morning
when their horse became frighten
ed at the switch engine and
backed their buggy into the deep
ditch near the residence of l)r.
P. B Davis, on South Railroad
street. Both were thrown out
W1U IVUIblCi 11. h ft, A. HGUJA BUI
fercd a dislocated collar bono
and numerous bruises, whilo '.
Mrs. Phenix sustained a fraotnrod
rib and was bruised consider
ably.
Another Good Reason Why
Bond Issue Should Garry
The city has received assur
ances from tho railroad company
that a rate of 30 cents will apply ;
on rock from Hopkinsville, to bo
used in building good streets, if
such rock is ordered by, and paid
for by the city, out of tho goner
al funds, for the benefit ofjall.tho
citizeus thereof, but they havo
ruled that they could not givo this
rate, if any part of tho cost ia
against tho property owners.
Voto for tho bond issue anil
help the city get alvantago of
tills rate.
Every block constructed with
this rato in effect will save tho.
city $75.00 to $100.00.
