MAN WHO FOUGHT IN BRITISH TANK TELLS STORY OF CHARGE
(ThU in the first Mory of life inside a Brltiuh "lank" in battle,
• •■ld I.) a soldier who «a* a member or » "tank" Mr, to resell this
country.—Kdltor. )
i\r.»«p«|M-r Knifrprlir Auorlalloa)
IX)NIM).N, Oct. 81. —Mere is the story of a "lank" fight at wen
"from Dm inwide look lug out," told by a ineml»er of the crew of one
of these farm irmioi- that have been turned into giKautic engine*
of ill- ■ h and have «i>read terror and destruction over the battle
front-, if Kurope!
Private X (right name withheld) took part In a tank fight
during the struggle for Flers, and was tent to a London hospital
where he told his story:
"The first time 1 law a tank, It was coming down the road to
the first line trenches at Flor*. Later, other tanks came along,
some looking like big boilers, others like armored automobiles, and
all creeping along on caterpillur belts.
I was detached to one of them that looked like a submarine
from the inside. We christened it the 11. M. S. Landship and re
ferred to Its parts in nautical terms.
"Although we knew tho Luiulnlilp uns »£<>f"K to be taken
in i. battle, we bad no Idea of its real M until the time came.
; \
An official list of all the candi- ■
: dates and measures on next Tues- :
: day's ballot is printed elsewhere in ;
; The Times. Study it over.
County Probes Wilkeson Killing
LONGMIRE FALLS DOWN ON JOB
WOMAN'S
DEATH A
MYSTERY
Coroner W, .T. Stewart of Pierce
county is holding an inq.uo.st Tues
day noon into the death of Stella
Plerwis/.a, wife of John Pierwlsza,
a miner, who was found shot to
death In their homo at Wilkeson
Monday night.
Although declaring that his
■wife shot herself, Pierwisza was!
arrested and is being held in tiie
Wilkeson jail.
The circumstances surrounding
the shooting remain a mystery.
Early Monday evening Pier
\\is/a rushed from the rooming
house where he and his wife
lived to the home of George Carli,
B neighbor, and declared hysteri
cally that something was the mat
ter with hiß wife.
Carll accompanied him to his
home to find the wife lying behind
the stove in a pool of blood.
There was evidence that a dee
pern te struggle had taken place.
The furniture was knocked
about the room. The woman's
combs were lying scattered about
the floor.
She had been shot through the
left eye.
On the floor lay a :i2-ealil>er re
volver. A butcher knife lay on
the table.
Spatters of blood stained the
floor from the window, about 10
feet away to the spot where the
body was found.
Neighbors declared that the
couple had been quarreling re
cently.
After word of the shooting had
been received in Taconia last
night, Sheriff Longmire, with
Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Sel
den and Coroner Stewart immedi
ately left for Wilkeson, where
they are making an investiga
tion.
They »re expected to return to
the Pierce county Jail with the
pTlsoner Tuesday afternoon.
The couple have lived five
years In Wilkeson.
Nothing Serious
(United Press Leased Wire.)
SAN FRANCISCO—Women muat soon wear shoes with paper
tops because of the dlminiflhtng supply of kid, according to C. T.
Bosworth of the U. S. bureau of foreign and domeutic commerce.
• * * *
HAN I It \\cih< I»—Tin- wild niuii of Borneo can now
use a telephone. N. Helnselnian, director of telephone ser
vice In the Dutch East Indies, i> en route home with mi,.
000,000 worth of telephone equipment.
• • ♦ *
SAN FRANCISCO—Much of the dissension in the Ford peace
party was caused by Mm*. Roslka Bchwlnimer'R trying to dictate
the price of the party's breakfast and the temperature of the baths,
vr. C. F. Alu'il Bald in a lecture.
• • • »
CHlCAGO—llonnlf* Kennedy, youngest tun) one of
the most daring steeple-Jack » In the country, fell six inches
from the wldewiilk to the curbing in Htutc Ntreet and was
badly hurt.
• • • *
CLEVELAND, O.—Good-hye to the free lunch. Cleveland sa
looniats are now employing floor walkers.
• * * *
COM MIU S, ().—Ham Hmlth WM Just a Muidow until
ho got n Job in the city laboratory imd it becuuie part of
Ills dtttien to taste the city water hourly. Now he weighs
IMM> |kmimis.
• • « •
CLEVELAND, O.—Even the pleblan dish of sauerkraut has
become a luxury. It !■ telling at |20 a barrel, but who wants a
Barrel of Fauerkraut?
» • • •
NKW VORly—l-nwver Max Upniau didn't radad having
his nem suit •polled by a sack of flour In a Halowe'en hood
lum's hands, but a* he said, "Look at the price of bread
Already."
• * • •
NBW YORK—Walking around a ladder instead tf under It,
to ovoid bad luck. Constable Keller of Montreal bumped Into
H«orjr O'Brien, the Man he came all the Way to New York to
arrest.
RVANOTON, Ulj—Womb tn ttaf aeootMl ward her* '
aakefl Aldetoitaa H. ft. (jbSXm to hive «fc« polUstf p»*o#
moved from a barber shop to a beauty jWf 4*. ■
TheTacoma Times
125 c A MONTH. THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA. 25c A MONTH, j
VOL. XIII. NO. 2712. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31,191& TACOMA, WASIL, IcACOPY
AVIATOR
IN FATAL
PLUNGE!
»! nli.-.l Pre«» l.ranril \Vlrc»
RKDWOOI) CITY, Cal., Oct. 31.
— Silas Christofferson, aviator
and proprietor of an aviation
school here, was killed at noon
today by a fall from a military
tractor which he was testing.
He died at Redwood City lus
pltal :?0 minutes after Ids ma
chine had plunged from a height
of 100 feet.
His chest was crushed and one
rib splintered and lienotruted the
lung.
The accident to the aviator was
witnessed by his wife. She was
tho first person to reach him after
his tractor struck the ground.
Christofferson was testing the
machine and was about 1,000 feet
aloft when tiie engine began
hissing.
The aviator shut it off and at
tempted to glide to earth, lie
■Mas aparently Kiiceedlng and was
about 100 feet up when tiie ma
chine suddenly turned completely
over and dropped like a plummet.
The machine, which was worth
$10,000, was badly smashed.
TODAY'S OUEAMMM
Clearings $ H7 1,017.20
Halanres 70,114.f>7
Transactions 1,308,901.36
Owls Holding
a Convention
ATCIIISON, Kan., Oct. 28
—Has anybody ever seen a
flock of owls before?
J. W. Coleman, return
ing from Oskaloosa, Kan.,
ran Into a flock of big owle.
He says there were a boat
a doaen of them and they
seemed to he holding a con
vention in the middle of the
road.
WE CLIM9EP OUT INTO THt TKEHCK .
"The only opening In the tank was forward, tfefMgh whiih our
lieutenant, at the wheel, was iieeriitK. The guns were in and their
port holes shut. The only Unlit in the machine (MM through that
little hole in front. It was dismal and gloomy.
"ONLY THK MKI'TKXANT KNEW WHKRE WE WKUB
GOING.
The Seven Sins of Society!
(This in the first <>i xi'ven xi'ticles niiiniiiK :m I nnxly/iiiK the i-eanunK for "The Seven Deadly
Slhs ill' Society," earh hlietlding a great ileul <>l II :hi on "the tiling* men mul women live l>j."—
EDITOR.)
By Winona Wilcox.
Wlicn wo write "Society" with a capital "8" wel mean a few hundred
persons. When wo write "society" with a small "s" we mean all of the people.
Jn this difference we have the very essence of
society's first sin against its own soul.
This sin is gluttony, the one of the "seven dead
ly sins" which means feeding after one is full.
AYe are accustomed to discuss greed as the root
of all social and political evils (without taking much
pains to change conditions). But we neglect glut
tony as a subtle agent of human misery in the realm
of the affections where, perhaps, it causes the most
and the greatest of all life's tragedies.
When a man and a woman are in love there; is a
mutual hunger for a "perfect understanding."
"Thou soul of my soul," says the poet.
Each would look deep into the mind of the other,
would divine the other's dreams, absorb the other's
thoughts, share the other's activities, be equally
helpful, mutually dependent.
And the wife considers herself devoted because
she is not content that her husband should spend an
evening with his fraternity. And the woman who
keeps the dinner waiting the day she reads a ]taper
at her club must account for her minutes to an irate
spouse.
Mental gluttony so rules these lovers that to
share a thought with any third person is rank
disloyalty. Indeed, neither may think at all —if
the thought is outside the other's comprehension.
Nature is a great lever, but she never devised a more eneciive way to
maintain the average conmionplaeeness of humanity.
"He loves me so much he will not let me speak to another man," boasts
the vain girl. But this in actuality is a love to weep over. Exclusive love is
riot complimentary; it is only greed which soon changes to jealousy.
"He does not understand me," wails the bride who is wasting a fine im-
"She is selfish," thinks the clover man whose wisdom fails to interest a
lovely wife. Straightway he suspects the woman of deceit, when she may he
only inarticulate. Pretense and hyjxijsy spring up between Ihcm. The vul
gar quarrel and lie. Perhaps one or the other starts on an unrestful pursuit of
"affinities," who will "understand" —no better!
All this misery develops not beer.use lovers mean to deceive each other
but because an unsurmountable barrier separates one ego from every
other ego in the universe. There is a limit to human insight into the mind
and the heart even of those who love best.
ONLY THOSE LOVE GREATLY WHO ARE WISK ENOUGH TO BE
TOLERANT, WHO ARE GENEROUS ENOUGH TO RESPECT EACH
OTHER'S RESERVES.
(Sloth, the next of the seven sins, is the subject of the next article.)
Do Business
With Us--
We shall endeavor
to make it both agree
able aucl profitable
for you to do business
;with us.
Fuget
Sound
Bank
& Trust Co.
THE FIRST SIN-GLUTTONY;
WELL, HOW MANY DO YOU
SAY STADIUM WILL SEAT?
Guesses in the Stadium seat
ing capacity contest began to ar
rive at The Times' office almost
as soon as the paper was out yes
terday.
Some of them are pretty clost,
too.
Don't forget the conditions.
Write your guess, with your name
and address. The first correct
answer received will get the pri«B
of |1. If you bring In.your an
swer, see that the person who
taken it marks the hour and mI«V
ute of its receipt upon it.
If it U mailed, we will make
note of the postnmrk, and the
time at which it reacha* the of-
If no correct answer l« r«v
cet?»d by Saturday, the nearest
IWM wilt fecclve the prise
Qutinaea hjust bo on actual B«at
ing capacity, a* 4et«nulised b>"
Maath. not gwndjan
"The tank lurched forward, then stopped! \\> hp«rd a crunch-
Ing, rruxhlng sound as we felt the I.andiihln push forward slowly
and ihunilly. Suddenly we were terrified by h crush above iih. The
din of heavy lnigHllas showering upon the steel armor of our tank
was no deadening we stuffed up our ears.
"We were at our guns, cutter to answer what wo thought whs
the caunon fire of the Garmanx. But our commander laughed.
"lie knew what wan happening. It wan not no horrible to
Mm If that lieutenant hud known how our nerve* nc.nl>
broke under tlie -Hutu, he would have explained I lie inclining of
that idii mill our inaction.
t"I i.'.iuu-d later that we had been nimhlng down the trees and
nib-, of the woods to our left, in an iittempl to detour and sur
ise the enemy from the flank!
"We came out of that woods with n Jump that almost knocked
til off our feet. We kept on at that puce, when the lieiitenaut
opened bis window and suddenly ordered us to get remit.
We wondered whut the plan was, when suddenly we felt the big
machine dip forward and upward. The commander ordered power
si.-.i off. nnd we btopped. 1 looked out. We were astride a trench
full of (iermans.
room or extra seats.
Among those who have turned
in jsuokkpk so far are:
P. B. Pomery, box 1274; H. T.
Mtfrpby, 1)06 North J; W. A.
Birtl, city engineer's office; Lilly
McJFadden, 713 Commerce nt.;
llalile M. Clark, 3010 South Ad
ams.
PERRY HAS $1,000
BET THAT WILSON
WILL CARRY STATE
<lniird i'rf«« l.»n«f<l Wlrr.)
W.W YORK, Oct. Thore's a
thousand dollars at Seattle John
H. Prrry will bet at even odds
that Woodrow Wilson will rarry
\Vfc«bln«ttiu Perry go wire*
democratic headquarters today,
saying lie would pay toll* ou any
*H»grain from any on* who wnnu
k J. adept Lh« w»j»r,
COUNTY NEEDS
SHERIFF WITH
MORE "PUNCE"
"Who is seeing to it thai the prohibit ion law is enforced in Pierce county
outside t lie city limits { I
Answer: NOBODY. A "county detective" and a "special investigator"
from the Pierce county prosecuting attorney's office have been making a stab
at it.
What is a "county detective V 1 is a "special investigator" 1
Answer: They are two sleuths whom the prosecuting attorney lias em
ployed to handle a job which the county sheriff's office is paid to handle, but
doesn't.
What have these two officer! boon doing?
Answer: They have been spending most of their time getting the "dope"
on dry law violators within the city limits of Taconia.
That is, they were spending their time in this manner until the prosecut
ing attorney agreed to call them off, after the chief of police bad complained
that they were actually interfering with the police in their efforts to nab law
violators.
County Simply Marking Time
What is the excuse for these two officers!
Answer: Because Sheriff Longmire, bloodhound Torger and his force of
other deputies AREN'T ON THE JOB AND NEVER HAVE BEEN.
It all simmers down to this: I
While the Taeoma police, having now obtained non-interference from
"county detective," arc getting results in law enforcement, bootleggers are
being allowed to ply their trade outside the city limits; and blind pigs are run
ning with little fear of discovery.
'I'llis much is admitted, even in the county court house.
The county is marking- time.
And all because Sheriff Longmirc, the one man in the county supposed
to run down law violators, ISN'T ON THE JOB.
Griffiths Is Different Type
Longmire lias been asleep at the switch, while two "specials" have been:
employed with county money to do his work.
Longmire hasn't taken one aggress ive step to enforce the dry law in Pierce
county.
The only things that have been kept warm have been the chairs in the
county sheriff's office.
Pierce county wants the kind of ; sheriff who will do something more
than hold down a political job.
Pierce county needs a man who doesn't have to be stirred to action, but whtf
Mill do the stirring himself.
Pierce county is after a sheriff with some PEP.
John Griffith, Longmire'b opponent, is that kind of a man.
Now They Say
'Murdered' Boy
Is Still Alive
LOS ANGELES, Cal., Oct. 31.
—A sensation in the Benton L.
Barret case may be sprung at the
preliminary hearing of the con
fessed slayer of his wife and IV
year-old stepson, at Santa Monica
tomorrow.
Capt. H. R. Zlmmer, defense
Investigator, intimated today that
he would produce Raymond
Wright, one of the supposed vic
tims.
Officers have l*>en sent to a
north of San Francisco to locate
young Wright and bring him
south for the preliminary hear-
Lng tomorrow, Zlmmer declared.
DANGER SIGNS AT
GRADE CROSSINGS
The O. W. R. ft N. Co. la pre
paring to Install danger signs 300
feet from each side of its tracks
county, and at all Important
points throughout the state.
108,256 British"
lost in a month
LONDON, Oct. 81.—British
killed, wounded and missing dur
ing th« yaat month numbered
108,286, according to th« offi
cial casualty U»t announced thla
' VV« opened fire. You ought to have taen thoio poor devlU
ncntter! They were frightened out of their wits as our big engine
enfiladed their trench.
"It was a horrible sight! We mowed down those humans like 19
in.hi* insects.
"Behind m we expected our Infantry to come up. We kept OB
the fire while waiting for their advance. We noticed reinforcements
coming up for the Germans.
"The tank was being slowly pierced by the heavy fire, of the
Germans! The lieutenant was desperate, but he kept hU heart.
"The fire cnjne from our right. Below us was the hatchway.
He ordered us out with our rifles and cautioned us to climb up to
the left of tho tank.
"Our Infantry had not yet come up, and while we let our riflea
ktOM Hi the enemy we prayed for help.
"It was during this short engagement. I suppose, that I WH
wounded in the arm. I could do nothing then but watch and pray.
"It seemed nn age until our men cm me up. We were so weak w»
ciuihl not shout for Joy. We only watted until our fresh comrade!
i nine up and helped us off the field, protected by the heavy fire of our
infantry."
H 1%9 II I ■■ w0 1 I ■ %0 IV
: WEATHER
Tacoma: Fair tonight and Wed- |
: nesday, cooler tonight.
; Washington: Same.
iiiHHii<ilil>iiiiHH»i>iinmHili^ti>a>«i
I Talk o' the Times [
Greetings, will November
7 be liOseday or Winaday?
Josh Wise remarks: "How
hard it seeing t' get along with'
so many things we ain't got an'
how easy f get along without r,o
many things we have got."
Thievea took «i,oon worth
of Jewelry from a iiiillion
hlti-'h glimmer home back
east but overlooked $25,<hM)
worth. They'd make good
assessors.
Paper has gone so high that a
Parkland woman uses lace to
cover the pantry shelves.
(From the Beatrice, Neb., Sun.)
QUINOV, 111., Oct. 81 —
Mrs. Benjamin Htroot ar
ranged a birthday party for
her husband here last night
and invited a l*Me number
of his friends. During the
course of tfee merrymaking
Mrs. Htroot gave birth to a
•on.
must have been dabbling is
stocks.
Never throw away an old is*
preme rourt judge. He ran b«
used as a candidate for president.
A ilix|i:it<-li from a Mexican
city says Villa drinks two
raps of bull's blood every
day to keep strong.
What do you suppose tho
mini who wrote the dNfiatrb
driuks?
The difference between rougfli
and rogue. The Seattle pirl ha* a
rougisli slieelt but arogaiah eye.
Only one more «Mk ttU
election day. And gosh, how- -
Hughew must dread It.
HERE'S A FACT TO I ;
POSTCARD TO TOUR I
11UHM»M IN TBS KA9T I
