THE BARME DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 194.
BARRE, VERMONT,. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1916.
PPTCE, ONE CENT.
16 AMERICAN
SURVIVORS
ARE LANDED
WILSON DECLARES
CHARGE UNTRUE
Marina's Lost Number 13,
and It Is Thought Prob
able That There Were
Americans Among Them,
Reports Consul Frost to
the American Embassy
THERE WAS NO WARN
ING, SAY SURVIVORS
Second Torpedo Fire Blew
the Steamer Apart, and
Seven Men Were Killed
1 While Trying to Get into
Lifeboats Sailors Saw
Wake of the Torpedo but
Thought It Was a Fish
Says No Postscript Was Ever Written or
Contemplated by Him But He In-'
serted Words to Make
Note Stronger.
Long Brunch, X. J., Oct.,31. President
Wilson last night characterized as "un
true" the statement made by Sena to!
Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts to
the effect that the president had serious
ly considered adding a weakening post
script to his "strict accountability" Lu
sitania note.
The president telegraphed to Walter
Lippmann of Xew York, editor of the
Xew York Republic, replying to a mes
sage from Mr. Lippmann regarding Sen
ator Lodge's statement. The president's
telegram follows:
"In reply to your telegram let hie say
that the statement made by Senator
Lodge is untrue. No postscript or amend
ment of the Lusitania note was ever
written or contemplated by me except
such pages that I myself inserted which
strengthened and emphasized the pro
test. It was suggested after the note
was ready for transmission that an in
formation be conveyed to the German
government that a proposal for arbitra
tion would be acceptable and one mem
ALLIES MOVE
IN MACEDONIA
The French Took Possession
of Singieri Mon
astery
TO GO TO ASYLUM.
FIGHTING WAS NEAR
LAKE PRESBA
Sofia Declares That the At
tacks Were Repulsed
Paris, Oct. 31. On the Macedonian
front, west of Lake Presba, yesterday
the French and Serbians made further
progress, the war oilice announced to-
ber of the cabinet spoke to me about U"J . ln" "':" uu i"u oi oiu
it. but it was never discussed m cabinet I " v "'"""
meeting and no threat of any resigna
tion was ever made, for the very good
London, Oct. 31. There was violent
fighting Sunday along the whole Serbi-
London, Oct. 31. The number missing
from the British steamship Marina,
which was torpedoed by a submarine off
the Irish coast, has been reduced to 13,
according to a telegram to the American
embassy to-day from Wesley Frost, con
sul at Queenstown. Fifty-two more sur
vivors have been landed.
Consul Frost reports that among the
13 lost there will probably be Ameri
can fatalities. The Marina sank with
in ten minutes after being torpe
doed, Frost reported. He said survivors j
stated it was torpedoed without warn
ing. A private telegram received to-day
from Crook haven by American Consul
Genera 1 Skinner says that among the
survivors from the Marina landed at
Croukliaven are sixteen Americans, in
cluding Frank Howard Smith, a veteri
nary surgeon.
According to a telegram to Consul -Gen -
reason that I rejected the suggestion If" JT"n in Macedonia; especially on the
after eiving it such consideration as I . . "l TOUru" K i
thought every proposal deserved which
touched so grave a matter.
"It was inconsistent with the purpose
of the note. The public is in possession
of everything that was said to the tier
man government.
(Signed) "Woodrow Wilson."
LODGE REPEATS CHARGE.
And Reads Letter on the Lusitania Post
script Case.
Fitchburg, Mass., Oct. 31. Senator
Lodge in the course of a campaign speech
here last night read a letter from John
Temple Llovd Jeffries of Boston, in
eial announcement to-day. At Reka,
German and Bulgarian prisoners were
taken.
COMPARATIVE LULL
ON WESTERN FRONT;
ARTILLERY ACTIVE
There Was Considerable Shelling in the
Vicinity of Douaumont and Vaux
on Verdun Front Paris War
Office Reports.
Paris, Oct. 31. The war office reports
which the writer stated that Henrv l " event of importance on the Somme or
Breckenridge, former assistant secretary Verdun fronts last night except for ac
of war, had several times made to himl'v artillery fighting in the vicinity of
eral Skinner, the weather was unusual
ly severe at the time the Marina was
sunk. The vessel was first struck amid
fihip and a terrific explosion occurred. A
second torpedo struck the bow and the
steamer went down almost immediately
in two parts. It is reported that seven
men were killed while trying to get int
lifeboats. The sailors saw the wake of
a torpedo but thought, it a fish.
remarks similar to those attributed to
him by Dr. Charles If. Bailey of Tufts
college concerning the alleged elimina
tion by President Wilson of a weaken
ing postscript from the "strict account
ability" note to Germany.
A letter from Dr. Bailey regarding a
conversation he had with Mr. Breck
enridge on the subject was read by Sen
ator Idge at a public meeting Saturday
night and the senator in his address last
Douaumont and Vaux before Verdun.
London, Oct. 31. With the exception
of intermittent shelling on both sides,
there was nothing to report during last
night, reads to-day's official liritish state
ment regarding the operations on the
Franco-Belgian front.
BULGARIANS CLAIM VICTORY.
FRIGHTFUL PANIC
WHEN GREEK SHIP
WAS ATTACKED
Many Passengers Threw Themselves
' Overboard and Were Drowned Fif
ty or More Lost Their
Lives.
Paris, Oct. 31. A Havas despatch from
Athens quotes the captain of the steam
er Angheliki as saying his vessel was
torpedoed without notice by a German
submarine. His despatch describes the
vessel' as a passenger steamer. There
was a frightful panic and many threw
themselves overboard and were drowned,
the despatch continues. Fifty or more
lost their lives.
night said he presented the letter from
Mr. Jeffries "as additional evidence."
The letter follows:
"Dear Senator Lodge: I have noted in
Boston papers youf remarks connecting
President Wilson with a postscript to
one of the so-called notes. According to
the papers vou state that the effect of
this postscript was to vitiate the force
of the note, purposely to inform the im- least, the Bulgarian troops expelled the
perial government that vigor displayed ; croians trom the trenches in tne vicini
in earlier parts of the note was designed , ty of Xonte.
for Anglo-American consumption solely.
Defeated Serbians Who Attacked Most
Bitterly.
Sofia, Monday, via London, Tuesday,
Oct. 31. A series of desperate attacks
by the Serbians in the Vcrna river re
gion, southeast of Monastir on the Mac
edonian front, resulted in sanguinary do
feat for them, the war office announced
to-dav. In the Moglenica region, to the
George W, Duncan, Wife Slayer, to Bo
Held for Observation.
Rutland, Oct, 31. That Georee W,
Duncan will not be allowed his freedom
until he has been in Uiq state asylum
at Waterbury for observation by experts
was announced in cnamDers yesterday
by Judge Fred M. Butler. No objection
was ottered by uuncan s counsel. Attor
neys J. C. Jones and. E. H. O'Brien, and
it 'is probable ha will go to the institu
tion within a few days. Later it is like
ly there will be a hearing to determine
the condition of tha man's mind. State's
Attorney C. V. Poulin appeared for the
state.
Duncan shot his wife on the night of
August 5 at the home of Mr. and Mrs,
Edward Dezero on Library avenue. The
woman died the following night. Two
weeks ago after trial in the county
court, Duncan was found not guilty of
murder by reason of insanity at the time
or the shooting.
Yesterday afternoon Judge Butler
called the attorneys in the case into his
chambers at the coovity court house and
said, in partt t
"We feel that Mr. Duncan should not
bo allowed his liberty until he has been
under observation of soir state experts
who will determine the present status
or his mind. According to our under
standing, the jury returned a verdict of
not guilty by reasm of insanity at the
time of the shooting' and we shall not
permit him to be at large until satisfied
that this condition of the mind will not
return.
"We clearly instructed the jury that
irresistible impulse -or emotional insan
ity alone was not an excuse for the jus
tification of crime unless it was the prod
uct of a diseased mind. Now, then, either
the jury followed instructions and found
that this man's mind was diseased at the
time of the shooting, or else the jury
went contrary to instructions and the
verdict siiouia ne set aside, we nave,
therefore, decided not to release Duncan
without an examination."
FORMER BARRE TEACHER.
NEITHER WILSON
NOR LANSING
WILL TALK
Both Declare That the Evidence is Yet
Too Incomplete for Them to Make
Statement on the Marina Case.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 31. Secretary
Lansing said to-day that the reports
of the destruction of the Marina, with
the probable loss of American lives, was
still too incomplete to permit of any
conclusions or to allow him to discuss
the case. Fuller reports, with the affi
davits of the American survivors, have
been ordered by cable.
According to the press accounts this
postscript was added rather surreptiti
ously and under star chamber proceed
ings and was withdrawn only because
the few manlv members of the cabinet
happened to discover its existence by
luck, and naturally threatened to turn
the government upside down.
"I assure you, sir, I deeply regret be
ing drawn into this affair, but I can not
sit idly by and see you called a liar when
I know your statements are true.
"Mv friend, Major Breckenridge, sev
eral times made to me remarks similar
to those reported by Prof. Bailey. I can
not swear to every minute detail, for
my memory is only human; but tlie gen
eral substance of your statement is cor
rect to my personal knowledge.
"As I have telegraphed to Major
Breckenridge to tell him of my proposed
action and as his remarks were not se
cret, and as Prof. Bailey lias already
involved the major, I feel obliged to
state that I know your statement is
true. With regard to Major Brecken
ridge, he is one of the finest examples
of the American gentleman, and Inn dis
tinguished family has been famous for
its chivalry in the South for years. His
statement also is unquestionably true
beyond any possibility of doubt.
"Believe me, dear Senator, Lodge.
"Yours truly,
(Signt-d)
"John Temple Lloyd Jeffries."
RUSSIANS GAIN
IN VOLHYNIA
Captured Austro-German First
Trenches and Then Repulsed
Counter-Attack.
Line
Petrograd, via London, Oot. 31. A
heavy attack yesterday by the Russian
forces in Volhvnia resulted in the cap
ture of Austro-German first line trenches,
the war office announced to-day. Counter-attacks
were repulsed bv the Prus
sians.
Mrs. Nellie E. Thompson Died in Water
bury Last Night.
Waterbury. Oct. 31. Mrs. Nellie E.
Thompson, wife of William Thompson, a
former teacher in the public schools of
Barre, died last, night at her home on
Main street after an illness of several
weeks. Mrs. Thompson is survived by
her husband and by four sisters and two
brothers as follows; Mrs. Elmer Craw
ford of Waterbury, Mrs. Marv Barney
of Lawrence, Mass., Miss Nancy Ryan of
1owell, Mass., and Mrs. Barney Carney
ot Montpelier, Patrick Ryan of Montpe
lier and John Ryan of this town. There
are also several nephews and nieces.
I he deceased was born in Waterbury
48 years ago and received her education
in the public schools here and the Green
Mountain seminary at Waterbury Center.
Twenty years ago he was engaged as a
teacher in the public schools of Barre and
remained there several years. Her mar
riage to Mr. Thompson took place in Wa
terbury 14 years ago. Mrs. Thompson
was a woman of genial disposition and
held in high esteem by her townspeople.
She was a member of the Pierian club
and belonged to the altar guild of St.
Andrew's and St. Andrew's church. Fu
neral arrangements are not completed.
URGENT NEED
OF BUILDING
Pressed on Goddard Trus
tees by Principal
Hollister
ANNUAL MEETING
WAS HELD TO-DAY
Optimistic Reports of the
School's Condition
Given
Trustees of Goddard seminary gathered
at the school on the hill this forenoon at
10 o'clock for their annual meeting. There
was a representative gathering of the
men who are directing the affairs of the
institution and after an uneventful bus
iness session in which the reports of
MRS. MARGARET AREY
ON EVERY FRONT
GERMANS WON
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 31. President
Wilson this morning was still without
sufficient definite information concerning
the submarine attacks on vessels carry-
Ft i reach a conclusion. It was said here
'- that he had given instructions that as
soon as conclusive facts were gathered
by the state department, they should be
forwarded to him.
THREE MEN ARRESTED
On Charge of Breaking Into Wallace
Store in East Ryegate.
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 31. .Tames Brown
and Peter Roskin. claiming Colorado as
their residence, and William Burke of
Bridgeport. Conn., were arretted in the
r;ii!rond yard at Woodsville. N. H.. yes
terday on a charge of breaking and en
tering the store of George W. Wallace at
East Ryegate early yesterday morning.
The men were arraigned in municipal
court and placed under bonds of $1,000
for appearance at the December term of
Caledonia county court. The booty ob
tained in the break consisted of 51 cents
and some cigars and cigarettes, but the
case is complicated from the fact that
the postoffiee is located in the Wallace
store and the government may take up
the matter.
MONTPELIER
Mrs. Rozilla Cadman Ordered Commited
to State Hospital
Mrs. Rozilla Cadman of Middlesex was
ordered committed to state hospital at
Waterbury yesterday afternoon follow
ing a hearing held before Probate Judge
Frank Martin, the petition for the wom
an's commitment having been made by
the village selectmen. The petition of
the Barre city council to have Ernest
Pegeni of Barre City placed in the same
institution was partially heard and con
tinued until Saturday. E. D. Waldo of
Cabot was appointed administrator of
the estate of Rolla A. Sabin, late of Cab
ot.
Official Statement Issued in Berlin Tells
of Successes By Kaiser's
Armies.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 31. The ef
forts of Rumanians to recapture posi
tions along the Transylvanian frontier
yesterday were without success, the war
office announced to-day. Since Oct. 10
Austrians ami Germans have captured
more than 10,000 Rumanians.
Attempts of French and British to ad
vance on the Somme front yesterday
were defeated by the Germans, the state
ment says. Russian troops yesterday at
tacked German lines in the Shara dis
trict, but met with a sanguinary repulse,
the anouncement declares.
Engagements in Berestechk, in the re
gion of the Lemberg front in Galicia and
along the upper Styre resulted favorably
for the Germans. Southeast of Ijembcrg
Turkish troops took several Russian po
sitions.
Died at Her Home on the Montpelier
Road To-day.
Mrs. Margaret (Fernald) Arey, wife of
the late E. T. Arey, died at her home on
the Montpelier road this morning at 8:40
o'clock, the end following a long illness.
Death was due to a cancer. Mrs. Arey is
survived bv her daughter, Mrs. E. J. Pur-
vee of Waterbury Center, anil by two
sons, Alton L. Arey of Cleveland, ()., and
Vinal A. Arey of Barre, an employe of
the Barre & Montpelier Traction & Pow
er Co. Iter husband died in Waterbury
Center in the spring of 1 9 1 5. The de
ceased was born in Vinal Haven, Me
Oct. 4, 1803. She had been a resident of
Barre for the past 10 years and was a
member of Harmony Rebekah lodge of
this city. '
The funeral will be held at the house
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev
J. B. Reardon, pastor of the Barre I'ni
versalist church, will be the officiating
clergyman and interment vill be made in
Hope cemetery.
FRESH CIDER SECURED
FOUND NO AUTOMOBILE.
The condition of Miss Josephine
Brown, who has been ill for some time
at her home on Main street, was report
ed to-day as being very serious.
Dr. M. F. McGuire has gone to New
York City to spend a month while re
cuperating from his recent illness.
The adjourned annual meeting of the
St. Bernard club, which ig located near
Montreal, but has a number of local
persons as members, was held yesterday
afternoon at the Montpelier" Country
club with a banquet in the evening. Six
teen members of the club participated in
the business meeting and at the dinner
plate were laid for twenty. Thf fid
lowing officers were elected: President,
A. B. Tenney of Boston; vice-president.
In city court this morning Magistrate J- ' latrl,K- "urnngton; secretary. J.
H. W. Ncott doled out a sentence of 30 G- Brwn. Montpelier; treasurer, Levi
Burlington Police Mystified When They
Went to Examine "Abandoned" Car.
Burlington, Oct. 31. An automobile
which had stood in the yard of the
Standard Oil Co. in the northern part of
! the city for several days and which was
thought to lie abandoned, was missing
when the police went to the place this
morning to make an investigation. Peo
ple who had seen the car there thought
it had been abandoned.
days in me county jail and assessed a
fine of $15 and costs on Gustave Johnson
of West Fairlee, who madi- his seventh
bow before the judge. Johnson said he
procured liquor to make him drunk in
Woodsville. X. 1L, and Barre, but did not
choose to make a more definite disclosure.
H. Bixby, Montpelier; director. H. X.
Simpson, Xew York; auditor, C. F. Lowe,
Montpelier.
Assistant Fire Chief Ernest A. Powers,
Clarence Lull and Wilbur I. Lawrence
left this forenoon for Xew York, being
among the few from this city who took
dvaALa&e of the special excursion ratea.
COMPOSER WAS VERM0NTER.
Silas G. Pratt, Who Died af Pittsburg,
Was Born in Addison.
Pittsburg, Pa., Oct. 31. Silas Gamaliel
Pratt, aged "0, a concert pianist and
composer of note, is dead here, it be
came known to-dav. He was born in Ad
dison, Vt. He composed the lyric opera. Mark Sibley, a fireman at a local paper
"Zenobia." and organised and directed i mill, fracturing his leg in two places
For the Goose Green-Squag Holler Social
Function.
A cider man from Topshnm was in the
city to-day to close a deal with the Goose
Green-Squag Holler committee for a large
quantity ot fresh cider, which is to be
served with the doughnuts and popcorn
at the plavgrousd benefit dance in How
land hall Wednesday evening. Apple
juice of the brownest October brew is to
be provided by the Topsham purveyor
and there are plenty of dealers who are
willing to guarantee the rest of the re
freshments. The committee wishes to
emphasize the fact that dancers in cos
tume will be allowed to dance at the
outset, even though they are not masked,
as the affair is primarily a costume dance.
People who attend and are not in cos
tume must keep on the sidelines until
after the fourth inning. The admission
fee for unescorted women has been ad
vanced to 50 cents in order to head off
scalpers and male patrons must expect
to come through with the dollar charge.
Lost deception be practiced by designing
males, the chief or police is to be sta
tioned at the door to ward off all aliases.
PINNED AGAINST WALL.
Mark Sibley Seriously Injured by Auto
at Bellows Falls.
Bellows Falls. Oct. 31 The fourth se
rkms automobile accident within four
days occurred here yesterday afternoon
when an automotive driven bv I). It.
Cushion, manager of a local hotel, struck
the Chicago grand opera festival.
BRITISH CASUALTIES
IN OCTOBER 107,03
London. Oct. 31. British casual
ties reported in October in all the
war areas are: Officers, 4.331 ; men.
IO'.Toi
below the knee.
j Sibley, who came here a week ago
i yesterday from Barre was standing look.
! ? I
I inir in IVntnli A- llpnniiii.v' H-in.lma. in
ithe square. The automobile got beyond
the control of Mr. Cushion and, jump
ing the curbstone, pinned the victim of
jthe accident against t'.se building and ' able occasion. We have achievements to
(driving his body through a large plate ; celebrate besides the fact that the school
'glass window. Sibley's left leg was frac- jjias lived for fifty years. We should ded
tured and his neht hand cut by the icate the new dormitory at that time.
Prin. 0. K. Hollister and other officers
were received and officers elected for
1910-191 7, adjournment was taken at
noon and dinner was served in Alumni
hall. Prin. Hollister reviewed at length
the. progress made in school affairs since
the last annual gathering and cited some
of the things which Goddard needs if it
s to continue its work as an educational
factor in Vermont. Other reports indi
cated that the school is solidly grounded
financially and that more and more par
ents and guardians have come to regard
Goddard as an ideal home school.
Few changes were made in the official
late. Fred Bianchard of Montpelier suc
ceeds Don V. Camp as a member of the
executive committee and 0. L. Martin is
added to the auditing committee. The
ollowing officers, therefore, were elected:
President, Charles H. Darling, LL. D., of
of Burlington: vice-president, William H.
Gladding of Randolph; treasurer, Harvey
Averill of Barre; secretary, Harvey
Averill; executive committee, C. H.
Darling, Ira C. Calcf of Washington, Ar
thur D. Farwell of Montpelier, C. X. Ken-
yon of Barre, Fred Bianchard of Mont
pelier. Homer C. Ladd of Barre, Ernest J.
Hewitt of South Rovalton and Homer
Fitts of Barre: committee on endowment
fund, Ira C. Calef. Albert Johonnott of
Montpelier and W, H. Gladding; audi
tors. S. D. Allen of Barre, Clark King of
Montpelier and 0. L. Martin of Tlain
field : steward, Charles Beals of Barre.
This afternoon at 2 o'clock the trustees
convened to discuss some of the recom
mendations made by the several commit
tees. It was expected that adjournment
sine die would be taken late in the after
noon, : -
Guy R. Varnum of Barre was elected a
member of the board of trustees to suc
ceed George B. Milne, whose death oc
curred last spring. The following trus
tees were present: Mr. Darling. Hark
King. Ira C. Calef, Dr. Charles A. Gale of
Rutland. S. IX Allen. W. H. Gladding,
Homer Fitts, C. X. Kenyon. Arthur D.
Farwell, Charles A. Chapman of Ferris-
bury, George H. Clark of East Montpe
lier" Prof. O. K. Hollister, E. .1. Hewitt,
Homer C. Ladd, H. E. Averill. Fred
Bianchard, Rev. George F. Fortier of St.
Albans, O. L. Martin and William Bar
clay.
Principal Hollister's Report.
To the Honorable Board of Trustees.
"Gentlemen:
"In presenting mv annual report I de
sire to make some comparisons between
the school of to-day and the one when I
became principal in 18SI7. These twenty
years have been the critical period in the
life of every private school. Nearly all
of the .Vermont schools have either gone
to the wall or become the local high
school of their communities. Goddard is
one of the very few that has lived
through these hard times. Our attend
ance in 1 SOT was 120. Our permanent
fund was $2ii,9fl3. The attendance this
fall is 280 and our fund has grown to
$160,000. Courses in domestic science and
teacher training have been added. The
present policy of the executive committee
in responding to the demand for new-
courses and proper equipment, the keep
ing of good teachers in our service in
stead of letting them go to other schools
as soon as they have become valuable,
has been a great factor in raising the
school to the high standard that it en
joys to-day.
Four vears ago the new building was
constructed which gave increased accom
modations for equipment and recitation
work. The growth of the school since
then has been remarkable. Three years
ago this tail our registration was im.
In this short time practically 100 stu-
ients have been added, the increase this
vear being 4.i. line Minorca ana nny
eight new students have entered this fall.
38 more than we had in all three years
ago. Of these new students 8(1 are boys,
an unusual condition. Our students come
from eight states and Canada. We are
drawing students from a wider area each
vear. Many are coming for the last year
of the course or after graduating from
other schools Iff secure the preparation
for college that we give. We have l. ad
ditions to our senior class this fall and
most of them plan to enter college.
"Our problem now is, what to do with
the students that want to come here.
Our buildings are taxed to their utmost
apacity. Three and four students are
iving in some rooms ana otners are nv
ng in the city. These conditions are not
right. We ought to provide suitable ac
commodations for all. In my report of
ast year I urged the necessity of another
building. The need of it to-day is still
more urgent. During the year I have not
found the one who will give the money
for such a building, but the search for
that person is going to continue. We
must have the building. I see a more
glorious future for the school than it has
ever known. There is no question about
it. Goddard is destined to be one of the
great educational institutions of the East
if we are only true to the trust that the
men and women of the last generation
have placed upon ns.
'In 10P we celebrate our fiftieth anni
versary. 1 his snouiu oe miuie niemor-
nieeling to have the celebration in charge
and plan a progrum worthy of the occa
sion. "These are certainly great days for
Goddard but there are still greater days
to come. We must not say, 'The gVhool
is large enough now and we will turn
stinlents away in the future.' Such a
policy would be contrary to all our tradi
tions. From the very first the school has
attempted to serve the boys and girls
from families of moderate means who
wanted to come here. Through all these
years we have kept prices down and to
day most of our students are paying only
$4 a week for board, room, heat, light
and washing. The donors to our perma
nent fund have given because we were
attempting to serve this class of boys
and girls. To limit our numbers now,
to refuse to provide more dormitories Is,
I believe, breaking faith with those noble
men and women who have worked and
sacrificed and given, that the Goddard of
to-day might become a reality.
"As soon as we limit our numbers we
change our policy completely, and notify
our constituency and the public that the
Goddard of the next 50 years is going to
be a different institution from the one
they have loved and served. There will
then be no argument against raising
prices, and we shall soon follow the oth
er private schools of Xew England. The
children from wealthy families must be
sought. Our constituency will change.
The peculiar service which Goddard has
tried to give and which has been such a
source of pride to so many of us will be
a thing of the past. Gentlemen, do you
wan this? Think seriously on these
things.
Respectfully submitted,
O". K. Hollister,
Principal.
WOMAN GETS
HER RELEASE
Miss Mildred Brewster, in
Asylum Nearly 20 Years,
Is to Go Free
ORDER W '.SSUED
BY f ART TO-DAY
5
v
Woman v lied Annie Wheel
er ;W -and Not Guil
ty Because Insane
AUTOMOBILE HUNG
ON EDGE OF BRIDGE "
ON BERLIN STREET
Just After It Struck the Railing Last
Night Three Men Piled Out of the
Vehicle The Machine Still
Remains There.
A Caddilac touring tar of battleship
gray hue and bearing the license number
of 14507 hung over the parapet of the
west bridge abutment on Lerlin street at
daybreak this morning and was still
suspended at 2 o'clock this afternoon. A
thin pipe railing prevented the car from
going over the brink of the wall into
Stevens branch and to that same pipe
three occupants of the auto probably
owe their lives, ihcre is much ot mys
tery about the car and the police of
Barre arc not the only ones who are at
work on the unraveling. Through Chief
Russell of the Burlington police force,
Mrs. Alexander Butler of H2 George
street, Burlington, has asked the local
authorities to aid her in locating her
husband, who left home early last even
ing after telling his wife that the Cadil
lac would carry him either to Barre or
Fairfield.
A car with two wheels hanging over
the bridge parapet at Berlin street indi
cates that he chose Barre. Two head
lights are smashed and the bumper
bears the marks of contact, with some
thing that resisted the progress of the
car. Otherwise the auto appears to be
undamaged. Just where Butler and his
two conv Miions went after Hie accident
ia an iul .esting part of the mystery.
People who live in the immediate vi
cinity of the bridge say that a Cadillac
car that .might pass for the battleship
gray outnt came nown. isenn sweet
around 11 o'clock last nieht. A crush
was heard and one person who Icoked
out of his window saw three men piling
cut of the machine. One wheel was
poii-fd over the stream, but tiic others
weie anchored to terra fit ma and se
curely grounded there, it seemed, by the
presence of the iron rail that starts at
the bridge entrance and continues along
the parapet. It is stated that the nun
appeared to be working to release the
Cadillac until 1:30 o'clock this mo-n-ing.
At that hour a car of less ample
proportion, a Ford, called at the bridue
ami relieved the weary workmen. The
driver of the smaller car headci his ve
hicle toward Montpelier and ai'ter that
Berlin street people, at least those who
live at the east end of the thoroughfare,
heard no more of the tinkering.
This morning police headquarters was
appraised of the presence ot the car ana
when mid-forenoon arrived and no one
hnd appeared to claim the auto, Chiet
Sinclair got in touch by telephone with
the qffice of the secretary of state at
Essex Junction. Guy W. Bailey in
formed the chief that the license number,
14507, had been assigned to Alexander
Butler, a Burlington man. The chief's
description of the marooned Berlin street
auto tallied with the data on iile at tha
secretary's oflice. Then. Chief Sinclair
telephoned to the office of Chief l'.js'ell
in Biirlinifton and learned that a man
An order releasing Mildred Brewster,
for nearly a score of years an inmate
jof the state hospital for the insane at
Waterbury, was made by Judge Frank
L. Fish in Washington county court this
morning, the order, however, being pro
visional, placing the woman in charge
of Sheriff Frank H. Tracy. Sheriff
Tracy will accompany Miss Brewster to
Bellingham, Wash., where she has been
offered a home. The officer will investi
gate conditions and if he deems them
satisfactory will allow her to stay.
Miss Brewster was committed to the
state hospital in 1897 following her trial
for the nwrder of Annie Wheeler in
Montpelier, the jury finding her not guil
ty by reason of insanity. She was re
leased from the institution eight yeara
ago and made her home in Hardwick, but
was returned. She tried to commit sui
cide upon her return, but failed in the
attempt and several weeks ago the su
pervisors of. the insane, believing with
other experts that she was not insane,
brought a petition for her release. Their
action was not approved of by Supt.
Grout of the hospital and he with two
other members of the hospital staff tes
tified during the hearing held Inst week
that she was not a fit person to have her
liberty.
Miss Brewster was recalled to the
stand yesterday afternoon bv the state's
attorney and asked what plans she had
in mind should she be released. She told
the court that she planned to go to
Bellingham, Wash., to reside, that sho
would not resent it if placed under some
restraint and had enough money to trav
el across the continent.
Thornton Trial Started To-day.
A jury was drawn this forenoon to
try the case of State vs. Wilbur Thorn
ton of Grantham, N. II., charged with
assault and robbery on John Collett in
Barre Oct. 20. J. Ward Carver repre
sents the respondent and the state's at
torney is conducting the prosecution.
the jury is as follows: Charles Bul
lock, W. L. Mann. X. H. Hill, W. L. Stone,
J. P. Hutton. C. P. Spaulding, T. B. Ken
dall, George Cooper, J. F. Moloney, How
ard Curtis, E. A. Lamphere and Alvah
Xewhall. The information filed against
Thornton charges him with stealing a
watch and three dollars in money from
Collett,
Collett was on the stand a considerable
part of the forenoon. He testified to
meeting Thornton in Barre, after which
they made the rounds of the saloons, go
ing then to Jack's lunchroom on Depot
square. From there, the witness contin
ued, they went to the platform of tho
Montpelier & Wells River railroad near
by, and it was there that Thornton at
tacked and robbed him. Collett then told
of going with an officer to the Central
Vermont station, where they found
Thornton. Wtiness said he was present
when the officer put his hand in a pocket
of Thornton's mackinaw coat and pulled
out his (Colletfs) watch. Collett tes
tified that he bought all the drinks that
night.
This latter part of the testimony tha
defense tried to refute by showing that
Thornton had money and that he paid
for a share of the drinks.
After Colletfs testimony had been fin
ished, John Cayhue, proprietor of a sa
loon in Barre, was called to the stand.
He testified to seeing Collett in his saloon
and he also told of being at the station
when the oilieer pulled a watch out of
Thornton's coat. Cayhue was still on the
stand when court took a recess for din
ner. Coia Comitted for Observation.
Another chapter in a shooting affray
named Alexander miner uvea m i- wnicn occurrea on orni r-rnuiuiy nnvm
ieoigc street in that city. Near n'Vn j (arre one Sunday in early October
to-dav '.void was received at poli -e w-aa- wm written to-day when i'asquaie loib
quarters here which indicate that Mrs. i0f p,arre was ordered committed to tn
state hospital in " aterbury tor ooserva
tion. Coia was charged with shooting
with intent to kill and for a fortnight
Butler was much alarmed over iier bus
band's whereabouts.
Mrs. Butler Sent Another Car to Barre.
Burlington. Oct. 31. Alexander But
ler of Georce street, whose ladillac car
was found bunging over the cd;;.! of a
bridge in Barre this morning, left Bur
lington in the machine last evening, tell
ing his wife that he was going cither
to Fairfield or to Barre. Mrs. Butler
had not heard from her husband direct
ly to-dav but was interviewed ny rue
after the row he was lodged in the coun
ty jail, only to obtain his release a week
ago when friends furnished bail of $10,
000 for his appearance in cdurt this
week. Coia had been living in Brook
street and the trouble which led to the
shooting is said to have started from a
game of cards.
For a few- davg after the card rumpus,
Coia was in the City hospital receiving
Ku.linirton police ... response to a c.u trpatmpnt for ,,,., wnd. He was ar
t.om Barre. On le .ining o. the circum-1 hp,(, for j
stmccs f the car b.-in HKi-.d in Barre. ; , .nnearintr for him in th
M-s. Butler sent man m
car, a Ford, to Rrre. to
tboLV. what had happened.
their o'lur
icarn more
STATE FIREMEN ASSEMBLED
For Annual Meeting and Banquet of the
State Association.
.g las. The tnachine was nut damaged. Ji committee should be arpuinted at tiua Eaglets' hall.
The annual meeting of the Vermont
State Firemen's association opened at 2
o'clock this afternoon in the memorial
room of the city hall at Montpelier with
a large attendance and it is expected that
between 73 and 100 members will in- in
the city to attend the banquet this even
ing. The business meeting and election
of officers is expected to occupy most of
the afternoon, the association being In
terested in promoting some scheme
have a fund created for the benefit of
firemen in the state who are injure,! or
killed while in pursuit of their duties.;
The banquet will be held at e o'clock in
r.rpliminarv examination. The action of
the court" means that the state case
against him is continued to the March
tsrm of county court.
ON DUAL CHARGE.
John
McLane of Waterbury Pleaded
Guilty To-day.
Waterburv, Oct. 31. On a d.ial charg
of intoxication and breach of tb peace,
John McLane was fined to-day in Mag
istrate Adams' court. McLane pleaded
(guilty to both charces and was fined $-i
and eots tor tne intoxication o .ense an.i
sentenced to pay costs and serve a sen
tence of 30 days in the county jail on
tl. second charge. When the j-jstii-a
placed him on probation, he paid a lins
and costs amounting to i?27.82. McLtr.i
is a brother of William Mcl-ane, now an
inmate in the county jail on a seriou
lurceuy diarga.
