NIGHT
EXTRA
FINANCIAL EDITION
ifamtmn
iMthatt
NIGHT
EXTRA
jIfl.NO. S30
PHILADELPHIA, TUUESDAY, JUNE IB, 1810.
Corsiuoitt, 1910, ni ins Polio Ltpota Coumni.
PHIOU OM CENT
iVS CAPTURE
'ERNOWITZ, IS
INDON REPORT
t di-t
ikctive of itussian ouuwi-
rjiArmy ww"
I From Lemoerg
Sbbrg said evacuated
&..- nitr Twcntv Miles
Ppm Kovel and Fifty From
Galicia L.apitui
&nmits has fallen to tho Rus
according to a report from Lon-
SThe event was expected since n
ftdriouncod that tno a
!j , Pmth nt Sniatyn, thu3 sur-
Sdlng the capital of Bukowina from
KRorth and cutting it off from Lcm
Stand'thc main Austrian nrmy. The
fStilan left wing, which defended
f5Vu. n nw the alternative
iowi '" ---- ,
;s-,wlnr to tho Russians' or rc-
tirtf bock to the Carpathians
Z. jjrfii-nlt mountain passes. It
, at least for a time, until it'
t nrros9 the mountain ridge and
tiLgn Hungary join the centre of the
hfons, completely of no avail to
Teuton commanders, moreover,
Efiiil nf Czcrnowitz, which means
SiSlw ihe-surrender of all Buko-
(ftSvfo the Slavs, brings the Central
'fwn again face to face with tho
ksn of Rumanian intervention on
H?ade of the Allies.
Ikst developments in tne bhu
Lrun thn Anstirn.Russian front in-
!?.)hf. nVrucial strueele for tho
raScaslon of' tho fortress of Lemberg
HTapidly approaching. The Russian
Kraiies have reached tho border town
f&Kadzvillow, on the Lemberg-Dubno
Railroad, some fifty miles from the
Galtcilm, capital, and there is a report
lOiitthe citv has been evacuated by the
Austrian forces. Tho report may bo
fetmature, for tho, Auatrians not only
Kn b111 vAnVn n stnnrl on thp. TTnnrr
v?"' . .,...."" T..r:zz.
Mtyr ana tno upper cup, out mey nuvu
pack of Lcmborg four railroad lines to
przehjslj t6 Samb6r,to Stryl and to
$Bli, on which to retreat in case
ijfff. .could notdeftnd the fortress.Nor
HLemberg now in immediate danger of
eurrounaea so tnat tne Austrian
imust seek safety in leaving it.
I0WITZ FALLS JO SLAVS;
I TOWN WAS SDRROUNDED
Br-
6Aknn t..-- . a n .-
L r ' uuuo t -zernowiiz, me cap
ofjI?ukowIna (Galicia), lias been cap
lF'ty,lh8 nusslana, according to a re-
jv.cMtu iicio njuujr. nits ucgupuv'ufl
JjCSSnpwlti has lone been one of the chief
Jwes of the Russians on the Gallclan
TiPVPTmnt? a r T..na k
jfsrtfstent reports were current today
IJJJW'lon of Lemberg, capital of qallcla.
"' mo icugwcu successes or ma
Continued on Tata Four, Column One
flEEE AMERICANS,
iX BANDITS DIE
1 TEXAS CLASH
EgLu, S. Soldiers Wound-
hlw iNignt Attack From
Across Border
3PS CHASE OUTL7AWS
ISASHINGTOV T,. ir o '..
iS e White House and con-
ISSk or 15 minutes wliii n.u.
W about Mexico. Secretary Lan-
K T mt ln,s was o subject
IBi)... """i u"t wouw say
KSwS?ISll,r lhe detail8- A he
;,-"" "uuse, ne stated that the
miS to withdraw American
ESi 0t yet been dispatched
ii- ""4 ue. sent today.
NI AKrtviTn .
tominandin'a h fi"!,9 "Central
ital' W...VTA"1" Wredo. reported to
BWUvalrv 17, 'hf troops I .and
lata, irvi?' attacked at San
Pt toat niT; ,;?untJ, Texas. 40 miles
BSHSyS yere- k OUtrlBht and
ISliourr OShtlnK which' lasted
iltlk vJ T,L.La Pursuing the ecatte,i
HEI'&nt- I
fj o r. y.r.lT;
PHB WEATHER
XlJPy-i Pirn
ffpiif-:. .' wr
r WH winds. ' """"
. tOST AMD roiTNIl
fclll.ttS
"frSrfi.jVi8??? .tlr HUd-
,Wo804k aSi'SSB' e- Waiata.
t
WILL MANAGE WILSON'S CAMPAIGN
Vance C. McCormick, Democratic nominee for Governor of Pennsylvania
in 1914, former Mayor of Harrisburg and owner of a Harrisburg news
paper, has been named by President Wilson to manage his campaign
for re-election, according to unofficial Washington reports.
DOCTOR ACCUSED
AS DOPE DEALER
LAUDED TO MY
Holcomb Was Curing Drug
Victims,' Says, "Congressman
Scott, Hfs Lawyer
AGED MOTHER IN TEARS
A dramatic appeal to savo from Jajl
sentence Dr. "William B. Holcomb, onUrlal
before Juttgo Thompson In tho 'United
States District Court for' Illegal sale of
drugs, was madeto a jury this afternoon
by Congressman John R. K. Scott, counsel
for the defense.
The aged mother of the physician sat In
the rear of the courtroom and sobbed out
her distress while the plea was being made
to save her son. Even the dozen or mora
"dope" (lends In the courtroom seemed to
Bb nffected by the appeal. One of them,
a young woman, covered her tvltchlng face
with n handkerchief and wept quietly. Sev
eral of the Jurors wiped away tear drops
and struggled Jo hide, their emotion.
"Tho DlBtrlct Attorney." said Mr. Scott,
"has no realization of the suffering of these
unfortunates, ire doesn't know, for he
doesn't llvo In that part of the city. 1 did;
when I was a boy these sort of people were
my neighbors." '
Here Mr. Scott pointed at Mrs. Dorothy
O'Qrady and her husband, James O'drady,
who testified yesterday tha they tried to
cure themselves from the morphine habit
by taking the "reduction" cure under the
direction of Doctor Holcomb.
"I knew that woman before she became
MrB O'Orady. I knew her when she was
a pure, sweet girl. I knew her when she
kept company with a splendid young man.
who was proud to know her," Mr. Scott
came to a dramatic pause. Tears filled
the eyes of Mrs. O'Grady while her hus
band looked dumbly around tho courtroom
as If he did not comprehend tho pro-
-The District Attorney," continued Mr,
Scott "does not know that there was no
nlace' for Mr. and Mrs. O'Qrady to go to
get cured of the drug habit. Thera was no
institution, no hospital or dispensary open
to them. When the Harrison antl-drug act
was passed these two unfortunates man
and wife, mind you-ln the terrible grip of
the morphine habit, went to the District
Attorney and appealed to him for a place
to go where they could get relief from their
,0"Th9 District Attorney had no place to
send them. So they went to the poorhouse,
and from the poorhouse they drifted back to
the horrors of the, drug habit."
Here United States District Attorney
V:.- tiv. ?m. mKfl and objected.
''"There were places for thero to go," he
VANCE M'CORMICK
PICKED BY WILSON
TO RUN CAMPAIGN
Pennsylyanian Will Line Up
Democratic ForrJes
for Battle ,
PRESIDENT HERE JUNE 29
Contlnutd on fa Two, Column Two
YOUTH'S NECK BROKEN
IN WRESTLING BOUT
Student Suffers Serious Injury
on Alumni Day at Dela
ware College'
nrwabK. Del.. June IS.Thomas n.
-,, t, so years old, a junior at Dela
WllM?i uS a'fracture of tho neck
ware Colteg e, sorter. Weldln.
I" MfJSLaf oa Tuesday night. Physl-
a "ow tund0n,M 'here wa a fracture
la?.3 ?a Photoeraph was developed
u","la nfufn Wllmlwton hospital and
tof,a5rVnn i entertained for his recovery.
little h9P l .5SSJS ink at the. annual re-
Thnofto. ffiS The wrestling boot
union the iMum wUon wa?
wta" bv Weldln nl in falltag his hwJ
thrown by wi ieUlX up
struck the wa' wglJd"re,veJ and told
'WASHINGTON Juno 15. President Wil
son has decided to name Vanco McCormick.
of Harrisburg, Pa., to manage his cam
paign. This information camo today from
unodlclal sources generally accepted "as re
liable. Tarty leaders close to the President said
the latter fully appreciates the coming cam
paign will be hot. . Ho, is cognizant of
Hughes' campaign ability, and remembers
tho grilling light Hughes made In his New
York .State battles. He is confident, how
ever, of victory, and ;ls lieutenants are Just
as certain of success, provided the President
goes out personally to aid the fight.
Some leaders urged tho President to pay
as much attention to the small towns. If
not more, as he does to the big ones. A
dozen end-car speeches teeming with punch
and talked directly to smaller crowds In a
half dozen or. more towns and hamlets
a day, they believe, will do more good than
speeches farther apart 'In, large cities, The
President Is inclining to this belief. How
ever, he will not decide this point until
about the time Congress quits.
He expects to go to Philadelphia June 29
to speak and to New York the following day
to nddress the Press Club there. He Is con
sidering receiving official notification of
his renomtnatton at the summer White
House at Long Branch, N, J.
In spite of the fact that many of his
friends. Including Henry Pindell, of Peoria,
III., and Charles R. Crane; are suggesting
the President go to St. Louis and personally
address the convention, following his
nomination, there Is np 'likelihood of his
doing so, Secretary Tumulty stated today,
Vance Qrlswell McCormick has been a
conspicuous .figure In the" world of business
and finance since his early manhood, and In
the Democratic party of Pennsylvania has
had a commanding" place, especially since
the "reorganization"' element a few years
ago wrested control from the Quffey lead-
ConUn'utd on Fate JTwo. Column SU
koVMEN DISBAR
WOMAN LAWYER FAILS
' .
Law Association Censors Dismiss
Charges of Overcharging
Made by E, M. Abbott
Disbarment proceedings against Florence
A. Yerger, one of the Jaw women lawyers
In Philadelphia, which were Instituted by
Idwn M. Abbott, attorney, for Dawson
lloopes, have been dismissed by the Board
of Censors of the Law Association, The
case 'was hear4 by the board yesterday,
and its'findlpgs will be .reported later.
I L.' Smith, Miss Yerger"s legal repre
sentative at the hearing, verified the report
of the board's action this morning. Mr.
Abbott, however, denied that the proceeding
bad been finally disposed of.
The action against MIsa Yerger arose
from dealings which she had with Hoopes
through period of sis years, when she
was his .counsel, It was alleged on the
part o the complainant' that Miss Yerger"
fees were excessive, which accusation was
sat supported by the Board of Censors.
MU Yerger in discussing the cause said
"There have been several attempts to
postpone this hearing1, but I have insisted,
tsat tn matter ha fought to concjlusian.
An attempt wsa made to withdraw jfc jxj,
Mob to Soarf rf WnwM-But-X' would
EOt COWWOt," f-.
DEMOCRACY'S
TICKET WILL BE
NAMEDTONIGHT
May Smash Precedents and
Put Nominations Ahead
of Platform
SPEECH BY WESTCOTT
James Sounds Defiant Note.
Bryan Leaves as Call Conies
for Speech ,
By FERRY ARNOLD
COIilSKtM. ST. LOUIS. Juno IB.
Democracy's nominees for tho presidency
nnd vlco presidency will bo named tntilght.
Tho national convention this afternoon
agreed to this nnd may Binash precedents
by going ahead with tho nominating In ad
vance of construction of a. platform.
Tho renomlnatlon of President Wilson
will bo begun at 9 o'clock with n speech by
Judge Wcscott. of New Jersey.
Seconding speeches will bo limited to five
minutes. ,
Following Wilson's nomination, John W,
Kern will present to the convention tho
n.imo of Thomas It. Marshall for vlco presi
dent. t
Today's session was n picturesque one.
Senator Olllo James, Kentucky's hugo Sen
ntor, spoko another Domocratlo keynote,
and it wna a keynote of defiance! of boast
of President Wilson's Bucessful maintenance
of pence, nnd a profession of entlro optim
ism that tho peoplo would pcrpetuato tho
Wilsonlnn policies.
James got nlmost as enthusiastic a recep
tion as did tho main keynoter of tho con
vention Governor Martin H. Glynn In
yesterday's session.
Tho convention yelled repeatedly for a
speech from William J. Bryan, but at tho
first indication that ho was being demanded,
tho former Secretary of Stato beat a hur
ried oxlt from his scat In tho press stand.
Lator Senator James, as permanent chair
man, announced that the convention would
havo plenty of time In which to hear tho
Commoner, if it wished, but that this after
noon Bryan had to lcavo to mako n talk
elsewhere.
COLISEUM, St. Louis, June 15.
Gladdened by tho news that tho proceed
ings were to bo shortened and tho Demo
cratic National Convention's business ex
pedited In every way, tho second day's ses
sion of that body presented a continuation
of yesterday's love feast. Tho conentlon
was long delnyod In getting together be
cause tho big party lenders, headed by Jo
scphus Daniels, Secretary of tho Navy,
took the Initiative, and forced the Commit
ted on Hules to permit tho nomination of
tho candidates tonight. Instead of waiting
Until tomorrow. That took tlmo, but when
It was finally settled things moved rapidly,
and at 1,1:60 Chulrman Martin' H. Glynn
called tho convention to-order. Glynn ie
Celvcd nn ovation as he droipcd,"the g&d.
nnd It as a minute before' he was ablo
to restore order and Introduce to tho deto
nates the nt. Itev. Archblshon John J. Glen-
non. of St. Louis, who offered the invoca-'
tlon.
Tho report of the Committee on Creden
tials was presented by Its chairman, Mnyor
Joseph K. tyell. of Indianapolis. If seated
the delegates.whose names had been placed
on tho temporary rollfr- i the District of
Columbia and Hawaii and dlded tho votes
from Porto Itlco between tho contestants
with half a vote each. In all other par
ticulars the temporary roll was approved
as mado up by tho National Committee.
The report was unanimously accepted.
The Committee on Permanent Organi
zation presented the report of that body,
through Its chairman, U. W. Craves, of Mis
souri. It provided that United States Senator
Olllo M. Jones should be elected permanent
chairman, and that all of tho other tem
porary officers be made permanent.
COUNTESS' AUTO
KILLS TAILOR AS
SHE RIDES IN IT
Former Mrs. Stetson and
Miss .T. T. Potter Pa
roled as Witnesses
FATALITY ON YORK ROAD
m$$ms3m$
BWgMTCTM- JWgi KSSaiiSiSSiM
COUNTESS Dfl SANTA EULALIA
Samuel Bailer, 80 years old, a tailor, of
634 McClella,n street, was run over and
killed today at York road and Spencer
street by the automobile of the Countess
do Santa. Eulalla. of '"Idro," Ashbourne.
Leo SUfer. it years old, of 710 West Butler
street, chauffeur, was arrested after the
accident, The countess and Miss Thomailne
T Potter, who were tp the car at the time
of the fatality, were paroled Into the cus
tody of district defectives of the Branch
town station house as material witnesses
to appear at a. Magistrate's hearing
Bailer's death, brings the total of auto
mobile fatalities since January 1 to 51. He
and hi cousin, WUllaro, Qaller, ij years
old. of H Pantrejl street, were, operating
a small cr sonhbijund on Yorfc tpag. re,ar
QUICK NEWS
48 "DOPE" PROSECUTIONS DROPPED
Foity-elght "dope" cases were nolle, prossed today 1)7 Judgo
Thompson nt the lcqucst of Elands Fisher Knnc, United States D's- ,
trtct Attorney. Under the recent ruling of tho United Htateo Supremo
Court, declaring unconstitutional thnt section of the Harrl&on dru
act which provided a jail sentence for persons having drugs ill thou
possession, the District Attorney felt It needless to press the cnac3.
There nie only four cases now waiting attention,
FOUR DROWN WHEN GAS BOAT SINKS
NEWBERN, N C, June 15. Four persons lost their lives nnd
eight othtis had narrow escapes when the gas boat Marlon, bound
from Bnth, N. C, to Washington, N. C, sank into the Pamlico 3ti7er
today. Tho bodlcn of thicc young women have been lecovcrcd.
RAILROADS REJECT WAGE DEMANDS; STRIKE LOOMS
NEW YORK, Juno 15. The railroads this afternoon rejected
the demands of their trainmen for higher wages. Unless the matter
can be arbitrated a strike Is imminent.
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-old maidens, 4 1-2 furlongs Britannia, 11U,
Ambiose, $4.70, $3.20 and $2.60, won; Isabclle H., 100, Scl:ambcr
horn, $5.00 and5.G0, second; Dandy Fay, 100, Wolstenholm, $38.50,
third. Time, :57 4-5.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
Tirst race, 2-yeor-olds, 5 furlongs Kathryu Gray, 100, Hoffman,
0 to 10, 1 to 5'nnd out, won; Aimue T., 104, Lyice, 10 to 1, 3 to !3 and
out, second; Solveig, 111 Keogh, 13 to 10, 3 to 10 and out. third.
Time, 1:01 3-5.
FLAGMAN BLAMED FOR FATAL NEW HAVEN CRASH
WASHINGTON, Juno 16,-T-Tho Interstato Commerce Commission today fixed
tho blumo on Flagman Coombs for tho New York, Now Haven and Hartford passen
ger trnln wreck at Bradford, It. I., on April 17, when 5 persons were killed and 17
injured. Tho commission In Its Investigation found that Coombs failed to mako1 a
propor signal display to protect tho rear end of his train, this resulting In a second
train crashing Into tho ono uhcad, which was standing Btlll. Tho' commission's re
port said the death list was larger than It would havo been If tho coaches had not
been constructed of, wood.
i .. .i: . -, -,-'
CITY'S BALANCE IS $7,821,31)5.58 :
Tho weekly statement of City Treasurer William McCoach shows that tho re
cclptsamounted to $154,740.92 nnd tho payments to 5537,315.62, which, with the sum
on" hand last week, not including tho Sinking Fund account, left a balanco of
$7,824,365.58 at Jho opening of business today.
BRITAIN CONFISCATES ALL DANISH LINER'S MAIL
BDULIN, June 15. The Overseas News Agency today reports that the Danish
Postmaster General at Copenhagen has information that tho British authorities at
Kirkwall confiscated all the first-class mall, as well as parcels from tho United States,
on tho Danish liner Frederick VIII. Tho liner was ordered Into Kirkwall while on
her way from New York to Copenhagen.
SPAIN TO CONTROL ITS SHIPPING LINES
MADRID, Juno 15. A bill providing that only 23 per cent, of the stock of
Spanish shipping companies may bo held by foreigners has been Introduced In tho
Chamber of Deputies by Sonor Hnfael Gasset, former Minister of Public Works.
Tho object of the measure Is to prevent foreign capital from obtaining control of
the shipping of Spain. King Alfonso has signed a decreo making tho provisions
of tho bill applicable immediately In order to prevent tho transfer of shipping
stock to foreigners while tho Chamber Is discussing the bill.
PEACE CONFERENCE OF SOCIALISTS POSTPONED
THE HAGUE (via London), June 15. The International Socialist Bureau
announces that the socialist peaco conference, previously fixed for June 26, has
been postponed until July 31. Morris HUlqult, of Now York, international secre
tary of tho Socialist party of tho United States, is one of tho. delegates.
PHILADELPHIAN IN FRENCH AVIATION CORPS
Dispatches from Paris today eny that Bobert Rockwell, of Philadelphia; Willis
Havlland, of Chicago, and Frederic Price, of Boston, have become members of the
staff of tho French nrmy aviation corps. They havo accomplished tho difficult
feats required by the French army regulations and havo been given thelrmllltary
licenses. In a few days they will bo sent to the front.
WIDENER YACHT, BOUGHT BY RUSSIA, SAILS
CouUnud . fats Xvf Calua hnt
Several tons of bunker coal were piled against the gold and white decorations
In the cabin of the steam yacht Josephine, recently sold by the Wldener estate to
tho Russian Government, when tho Josephine Balled today for Liverpool. The
coal may blacken the cabin walls, but Captain McGowan, the master, figures it
may be tho means of keeping the Josephine out of the Sargossa Sea or the range
of a German torpedo. N
MARCONI MAY GET CABINET PORTFOLIO
ROME. June 15, Tho Cabinet which is to replace that of Antonio Salandra has
virtually been formed. Paolo Boselll, who will bo tho new Premier, will have no
other portfolio. It Is asserted that Baron Sonnlno has definitely, refused to remain
tho head of the Foreign Ministry, and he probably will be substituted by Vlttorlo
Orlundo, who was Minister of Justice In tho Salandra Cabinet, The other Ministers
will include Leonlda Blssolati-Borgamaschl, leader of the reform Socialists, and
Prof. Lulgl Luzzattl, ex-Premier, nnd probably William Marconi. General Paolo
Morrone and Vice Admiral Camlllo Corsl, respectively Minister of Wor and Marine
in the Salandra Cabinet, probably wll retain these posts In the new ministry.
"FRANCE'S DAY" TO BE OBSERVED IN BRITAIN
LONDON, Juno 15. It has been decided, with tho approval of the French
''Ambassador, to set apart July 14 next as France's Day, Tho proceeds of the cele.
bratlon throughout the British Isles are to be given to the French Red Cross. The
Cord Mayor of London has accepted tho honorable treasurershlp of France's Day,
DOMINICAN SENATE NAMES CASTRO FOR PRESIDENT
SAN DOMINGO, June 15. The Senate has designated Jacinto de Castro Presi
dent of tho Republic to succeed President Jlmlnez. His name has poen sent to the
Chamber of Deputies for approval. The chamber last month took a vOjto for Pro
visional President, but Rear Admiral Caperton, in command of tho American forces
of occupation, requested the election be postponed until quiet was restored through
out the republic.
BRITISH ENTER TOWN IN SOUTHERN PERSIA
LQNPON, June 15. A Reuter dispatch from Teheran says that General Bykes
with a British column on Monday entered Kerman, the principal town of southern
Farsta. The purpose of this movement presumably Is to maintain order In the Brltlsb.
suhere of Persia. Minor disturbances there have been attributed to German and
Turkish emissaries. (Kerman tho fourth city of Persia in size. la situated midway
jwtwaeo Teheran and the extreme ioutheastern corner of Persia bordering on
Baluchistan- The British entered Persia, either from the Persian QuU, gjj mile
from Kerman. or from Baluchistan, 4?f miles distant J
GREAT ALLIED
ASSAULT NEAR,
ASQUITH HINTS
Combined Offensive to Be
Launched Soon, Pre
mier Reveals
AWAIT JOFFRE'S WORD
General Staffs of Entente Co
operate in Preparations
for Drive i
Tho situation nt Verdun, calling for
tho withdrawal of all nvnllnblo Gor
man reserves from tho northern front
In Franco, tho Russian offensivo
against tho Austrians nnd the 'counter-
offensive launched by, tho Italians in
the Trcntino, havo mado it apparent
that tho British army in Franco is nt
Inst to launch a powerful nnd concert
lnst to launch n powerful assault
against tho Teuton lines. Thero is
reason to believe that tho drive may bo
already under way. i
For weeks thero havo been unmis
takable signs of a great' British offen
sive impending which would becomo
active when the Germans before tho
British line had been reduced -to a
minimum and propitious offensives
had been begun by the Allies in other
quarters.
Tho British front formerly extended
from tho Belgian front, which ends
about 10 miles north of Yprcs, for 32
miles down to about the same dis
tance from Arras. In the laBt week in
March the British replaced the French,
as far as the Royo Railway, south of
the Somme, and thus occupied n front
of about 90 miles, or a quarter of tho
entire western front. Tho substitu
tion of British for French troops in
the southern sector, tho French going,
it is believed, to the Verdun defenses,
was mode without any offensivo on
tho part of the Germans.
LADTBANK, Scotland, June 15.
PremlervAsqulth In an address here yes
terday, without making the direct state
ment, hlntod that a' great .offensive was
about to be begun by the Allies.
Co-operation among the general staffs ot
the Allies was becoming more intlmato nnd,
complete every month, he said. British as
sistance had been offered to General JoIre,
and tho steps which would be taken wera
those dictated by, sound strategy.
The occasion was tho 30th anniversary
of tho Premier's election to the House of
Commons from East Fife, and It was his
first visit to his constituency since the out
break o tho war.
In a survey .of the situation, Mr. As
qulth declared the Russian advance one of
the most brilliant feats" ot the war, de
scribed the Increasing , effectiveness ofj
Italian rcslstanco to the Austrians and re
vealed that British, aid had been offered in
the defense of Verdun.
Premier Asqulth, after referring to tho
brilliant Russian advance, said the, Italians
were maklnir a resistance to the Austrian
onslaught which every day was becoming
more effective. As for the French, nothing
could exceed tho valor with which 'they
wero maintaining the defense of Verdun.
"This war Is not merely a struggle ot
Continued an race Fonr. Column l'oor
THIRTY FACTORY GIRLS -FLEE
BLAZE IN NEARBY
BUILDING; NONE HURT
Employes Are Driven From
Building When the Adjoin
ing Structure Is Destroyed . j
by Flames '
CROWDS SEE FLIGHT
Bursting high pressure hose deluged spec
tators and adjacent property when called
Into service (his afternoon at a Are which
damaged the furniture establishment of
William Splegelman & Co., at 139 North 2d
street.
Tho building, an antiquated four-story
brick structure, burned rapidly, the smoke
enveloping the building and hampering the
flremon n their efforts to locate the seat
of the flames. The third and fourth floors
were ablaze when the first company, Engine
No, 8, located a few doors away, arrived,
pn the scene. The firemen swarmed up the
outside lire-escapes (Ike ants, dragging their
hosellnes. For nearly 20 minutes their
fight was Invisible to the crowds on the
street below, until a burst of flame dis
sipated the smoke-cloud and revealed them
still clinging to the Iron ladders.
The Splelman firm occupies the entire
building, using the two upper floors for
storage purposes. Only a few employes
were In the upper part of the building whea
when the fire was discovered. These es
caped without Injury. The adjourning
property at HI. a. new concrete structure,
is occupied Jointly by the furniture firm a
a store, and by the Stenton Manufacturing
Company, makers of women's dresses
30 girls were In the upper floors of this
building, and when the smoke poured la
from the burping building next door they
fled down the fire escapes.
The property to the Bouth of the Spiegel
man Building is, unoccupied.
Two alarms were turned, in without de
lay as soon as the firemen saw that the
flames we? la danger Of spreading. Chief
Murphy reached the scene with the second
alarm detail and assumed command of tha
firefighters. He at once ordered Ma men
off the fire escapes and attacked the. bias
with the high-pressure service.
Several times the hosellnes buckled and.
burst under the strain and bystanders, as
well as eurroundlng property, underwent
a drenching from the geyser-llko streatw.
SIan'8 Attack and FU Fatal
James BOyle. St yart old, a driver, Uvln
at SU5 MonttOM street. 4led la ih .penai
uyivatila Hospital today u the result m
pllepUo fit yerttrday ftrait Sjrl
was artvilW hi team. 6t Itfc 4 WWiUfc
streM v.lia:i fc wat tski 1U i ii
ttom. tfc Ma,
t
1
