At St. 8 ING Political Nas
-1t6 smm gua sta of famou 'huwsy nueve ow -t , .wO
mivit"r 40 cawvmd" the Cha 3\\UL N Vitll oh e re atI~ ehi" .
cage6ayshs.- ~,m Th Heald iI1 EiA L Politiesar ew
LThe Herald lj In the Herald
NO. 3527. - WEATHER: PROBABLY SHOWERS. WASHINGTON, P. C., THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916. ONE CENT.
DEMOCRATS SOUND TWO IE
AT OPENING OF BIG CO
GLYNN AND BRYAN Al
First Cry Is "Wilson Kept Us Out of War"-Com
moner Says "Now Let Us Go Out and Catch
Progressives"-Members of Subcommittee
on Resolutions Will Crystallize These
Sentiments Into Party Declaration.
By JAM J. NONTAGUL
(Ines.e...l Nowi soice.)
St. Le*is June 14,-Two keymete were n 1ded at the ist sedoul of
the Dunecratie Nalideal Co.--ite when caged to order by Natiomal Chair
man WE=M. McCembe today.
7he "rt was "Wieem has kept us at of war," which was the theme
of Former Gov. Martin H. Glya.'s strong and loudly applauded speech in
g the prece egs as temporary chairman.
The sceeld was senaded by Wiiam J. Bryan when, after sitting through
the Fmy is as an eutider, he said:
"NOW GO CATCH PROGRSSIVES."
"Now let us all go out and catch Progressives."
Nine muin, members of a subcommittee on resolutions, will crystallize
these sentiments into a party declaration. Tentative planks have been sub
mitted by the President through Secretary Baker. The final draft of the plat
form will not be completed till tomorrow afternoon-perhaps even later.
Here are the declarations which at a late hour seemed most likely to
be included in the platform:
TO APPROVE WILSON COURSE.
I. An unqualified approval of the President's course in the European
:risis, as having kept the country from any part in the great war.
2. A declaration to the effect that while the party will not commit itself
to intervention in Mexico. it believes that enough troops should be kept on
Mexican soil to protect American interests and to prevent any raids of Mex
ican bandits across the American border. As a sop to the Progressives, a
declaration favoring measures for "social justice" fully as radical as those
included in the Progressive platform adopted in Chicago last week.
WOrXM COM PENSATION UP.
Measures under discussion in the subcommittee tonight:
A comprehensive workmen's compensation law.
The eight-hour day.
A mor eastic woman's suffrage plank than the one adopted by the
Republicans. Many radical Democrats are trying to fpc the commitftee to
sepat' a eclaaton for a Federal afisge1t-'
It was made plain to the committee members that Presidcat Wilson. be
haves that without the Progressives' support the fight against Hughes wil be
too close for comfort. The President will not be found with any platform
that is not so framed as to prove enticing to the men who were deserted by
Roosevelt at Chicago.
Glynn Arouses Enthusiasm.
Around the platform subcommittee WILSON MAY BE NAMED
which is laboring at the Planters Hotel
tnight centers all the interest of the BY DEMOCRATS TODAY
party leaders.
The speesh of Gov. Glynn aroused a By JAMES J. MONTAGUE
real burst of enthusiasm. It put into iutevuational News Service.)
words the thought of every Democrat in S Louis, 1o., June li-In a maze of
St. Louis. That there has been no war doubt as to ho- to frame a piatform
le the best bet of the party. It has been that will combine a defense or the Wil
the theme of conversation every time two son administration with an effective pica
or three delegates gather. Now It has for Progressive votes, the resolution coin
been put into a form available for cam- mittee appointed at today's session of the
paign purposes. Democratic convention tonight sent In a
Already quotations from the speech &a request for more time.
flying about the hotels and hard on the The platform, every one here realizes.
streets. Glynn ham been the recipient in the one big job of the convention. If
of hundreds of congratulations. He wiil no agreement can be reached before
be invited to be one of the chief speakers ing, It is Just Possible that Wilson
of the campaign. I will be nominated tomorrow and the plat
To put the gist of the speech of tenI form adopted Friday.
thousand words into a brief platform Among those who spoke before the
plank is what the subcommittee will now committee today were Samuel Gompers
attempt to do. It will be purely a de- of the American Federation of Labor,
fensive plank, but It will be made as who made the same recommendations he
strong as possible. made to the two conventions In Chicago;
Telephome Kept Busy. Mrs. F. Thomas, of St. Louis, of the
The long distance telephone between Womeits Peace Party, and Herbert S.
here and Washington has been busy Bigelow. the single taxer, of Cincinnati'
throughout the afternoon. The masters, who asked for an embargo on the ship
:)r deputy masters of the convention at mnent of munitions of war.
midnight belBeve that they had received
the final views of the President or of Russ Cut Railway Lines.
those through whom he bpeaks. And London, June 14-The Russian troo s
every one of them possessed of this In- have cut the Austrian raiway coei
furviation declared in favor of a dis- cations from zernowitz to te north,
tinctly progressive Platform. says a Reupter dispatch fiom Petrograd
Outside the Planters Hotel the stirring the
event of the night is a great suffragt Russ COut Down Net Diet.
parade which I sweeping past the Jeffer- Ptor e he today
Pasted a bill providing that on four days
son Hotel, with hindreds of enthusistic of each week no meat shall be eaten by
women in line, the public.
VACATION MONEY
FfoHrm eadpedridy
Mr.JAES . OLBRN CicAiong Mahosehs befoethe
Puzze Cntet fr HEALDreaers the Aerscan Fedratin'f lastr
HERAJ) P zleCotstwll nt hb pemitde the artcipeat on Ths
Shrdet cmpeitin i el mad. T his twoz Contst iln Chcae
one. .oThmaseoffeatLoirsf th
Women's.P$ t Peace # Paty adHeret
Bieo ,t e sn l a eoCicn ai
NOTES
NVENTION;
TE SPOKESMEN
14 OF KAISER'S
SHIPS ARE SUNK
Russians Destroy Cruiser, Pe
stroyer and Twelve Mer
chantmen in Battle.
HEAVY LOSS OF LIFE
Steamers Believed to Be Carrying Re
enforcements for Field Marshal
von Hindenburg's Offensive.
(By the International News Service.)
Copenhagen, June 14.-The German
cruiser Koenig von Sachsen (King of
Saxony). a destroyer and twelve mer
chantmen. have been sunk in a sea fight
in the Baltic. according to a report re
ceived by the Exchange Telegram Com
pany.
The Dagens-Nyhater publishes the fol
lowing:
"Fourteen German ships. convoyed by
eight armed trawlers, the cruiser Koenig
von Sachsen and two destroyers in the
Baltic were suddenly attacked by six
Russian destroyers and submarines. The
Germans fled. It is believed twelve of the
merchantmen were sunk. A trawler has t
arrived at Nykopeing with l'A survivors
f a German destroyer. The Koenig von
Sachsen was sunk with all hands."
The reported engagement apparently re
suIted from an attempt of the Germans to
land a large body of re-enforcements for
Field Marshal von Hindenburg's offensive
against the Russian line In the region of
Jacobstadt, on the Riga-Dvink front.
The presence of fourteen merchant
ships betrays the preparations of the re
ported movement.
Available naval registers do not list
the Koenig von Sachsen. It probably is
one of the four cruisers laid down In 1913
and expected to be completed during last
year and this.
Hughes to Rely
On Wickersham
Candidate Picks Old Friend to
Be Political Guide and
Mentor.
(By the International News Service.)
New York. June 14.-Charles Evans
Hughes has chosen, as his political guide,
philospher and friend in his fight for the
Presidency. George W. Wickersham. He
made the selection today after he and Mr.
Wickersham had ended a lengthy con
ference.
Whether Mr. Wickersham will be Mr.
Hughes' choice for chairman of the Re
publican National Committee is problem
atical, but not at all impossible. As na
tional chairman, Mr. Wickershamn woula
be campaign manager officially. Not
alone is he a warm personal friend of
the Republican nominee, but his selec
tion would go far to assuring some of
the skeptical leaders that Mr. Hughes
intend, being absolutely "regula."
During one of his conferences with
former Senator Crane. Mr. Hughes de
cided upon 2:30 Monday afternoon as the
hour for meeting the subcommittee that
is to assist him in appointing a national
chairman and other campaign officials.
HEAVY FIRING AT VERDUN.
Big Gans Keep U'p Battle White I
Soldiers Rest.
London. June l1.--Violent artillery at
tacks continued before Verdun, but the
infantry are waiting on their arms for
the next shock. This apparently is tol
come in the Vaux sector. as it is there
the Germans are directing the full force
of their bombardment.
The utter exhaustion of both foot armies
is the cause of the present cessation, ac
cording to a Paris dispatch which also
claims that in the German attempts on
Monday to take the French positions
north of Thiaumont an entire division nf
Bavarians and Pomeranisns was put Out
of action.
Zeppelin Reported Wrecked.
London. June -14.--An Exchange
telegram from Azristerdam says it Ist
reported that at Chatelneau, In theC
south of Belgium, on Monday, a large
Seppelin'of the latest type was blown I
against the telegraph wire. The gon
dola exploded. and the Zeppelin was I'
destroyed.
Auto Merger Abandoned.
New York. June 1.-The big automobile e
merger has been abandonied. John N. I
WIllys, preident of the Willys-Knight I
Co,pany, today unad, the annonement. I
Donemia Nae Castr'o.
Sato Dorningo, June 1.-Jacinto tp.
Castro was tohy designated President ofh
Ssat. DomlnoIma Y bs 'e a ...s
MLSON CHARGES
PLOT TO DEBASE
POLITICS OF US.
Says Effort Is Being Made to
Use Campaign for Aiding
Foreign Intrigue.
ST T A CKS HYPHENATES
ays Men Are Threatening to
"Get Even" for Failure to
Bow to Europe.
President Wilson hurled his challenge
nto the teeth of the Teutonio-American
illiances yesterday. In a Flag Day ad
tress, he declared that a conspiracy Is
'foot to debase American politics to the
ases of foreign intrigues.
An clfort is being made, the President
;aid, to levy a species of political black
nail by men who are threatening to
wreak their vengeance at the polls upon
hose public officials who will not bow
o foreign sentiment.
The President uttered an excoristion of
any man who will temporize with the sit
tation which he described. The nation is
wing tested now, he said. The President
leclared his confidence in the way in
which the nation will meet this test and
)rove to the world that it Is indivisible.
It was the strongest ttteiance that has
ome from the President on the subject
>f hyphenism and divided citizenship. Of
lvials stated that the speech is but the
orecast of what the Democratic plat
orm, formulated with the approval of
he President. will have to say on this
ubject.
Talk Was ig-uifleast.
The political significance of the Pres
dent's speech was frankly avowed by
kis advisers. The President spoke of a
karning to the nation in general, of the
hreat being made against its unity, but
t was a warning to ex-Justice Hughes,
he Republican Presidential candidate. as
well. Mr. Wilson's advisers regard Mr.
lughes' utterances on the subject of
tmericanism and hyphenated citisenship
ts weak and inadequate. They have ob
erved that the .Republican can0*gi
reems, assure4 of the great major'it of
be GermoAgerican vots.
Mr. Wilson and his campaign advisers
Lave resolved to draw this issue upon
dr. Hughes and to force from him a
nore complete statement of his views on
kmericanisn.
They will picture the President as the
>bject of a conspiracy to accomplish his
>olltical destruction because of his pol
ey toward Germany and will point to
he candidacy of Justice Hughes as the
nstrumentality through which the ven
reance Is to be wreaked. Present indica
ions are that the Democrats will attempt
o make this the paramount issue of the
arly stages of the national campaign.
In delivering his challenge to the
yphenates, President Wilson said: "1
vant to be scrupulously just. my fel
ow ciUSens, In assessing the circum
tances of this day, and I am sure you
wish with me to deal out with an even
tand the praise and the blame of this
lay of test. I believe that the vast ma
ority of those whose lineage is directly
lived from the nations now at war are
ust as loyal to the flag of the United
Itates as any native citizen of this be
oved land, but there are some men of
hat extraction who are not, and they,
iot only in past months, but at the pres
nt time, are doing their best to under
nine the influence of the government of
he United States.
"Disloyalty Must Be Crushed"
"There is disloyalty active in the United
tates, and it must be absolutely crushed.
t proceeds from a minority. a very small
ninority, but a very active and subtle
ninority. It works underground, but it
lso shows its ugly head where we can
ce it: and there are those at, this mo
nent who are trying to levy a species of
plitical blackmail, saying: 'Do what we
ish in the interest of foreign sentiment
r we will wreak our vengeance at the
olls.' That is the sort of thing against
CONTTNUED UN PAGE FIVE.
r. R. Taken Ill;
Kept In New York
:oughing Spell Loosens the
Muscle Near Rib Broken
in Fall.
(By the gaa News Serviee.)
New York; June 14-Colosnel Rtoosevelt
ras taken ill in town today and forced
a postpone his return to Oyster Bay. A
ousghingipell which he had on the way
a the pier to meet Mr. and Mrs. Kermit
toosevelt, who came up from Panama, is
elleved to have loosened a muscle In his
ift side near the rib that was breken
rhen he fell from a horse at Sagamore
1111 a year 'ago.
The Colonel had X-ray photographs tak
n of him late this afternoon and decideg
a stay in this city overnight. The doe-'
ar says that his condition. is not saosm
ad the Colonel himelf deems it of no
onsequenoe.
Italigns Bmard ha.enas,
ROme June 1L-.An' Itajnam iqusrom
omhbarded the Austria port of Parem
86,000 MEN, W
UNITE WIT
IN MARI
MEXICO CITY
NEARING FALL
Zapata's Army Reported Only
Twelve Miles From 0
Capital.
OUTPOSTS ARE DRIVEN IN
Rumor City Already Has Been Cap
tuded Denied-Carranza
Prepares to Flee.
I By the Sm News Service.)
El Paso. Texas. June 14.-News from
Mexico City this evening was most dis- +
quieting to the cause of the Carranza de
facto government.
The latest information this afternoon
said the army of Emillano Zapata was I
aithin twelve miles of the Mexican cap- Cj
ital. having driven the Carransa forces
in from their suburban stations.
Rumors along the border and Aubu- d
querque. N. Mex., tonight were to thel e
effect that the Zapatistas had taken thei
captial, but this was denied by Carranza
officials, although they admitted that the M
rebel forces were very close to the capi- E
tal.
It is expected on the border that the
first chief and his cabinet will retire to
Queretaro in a few hours abould the Z.. t(
pata army make further progress toward
the capital.
As a lesson to the Mexicans of the cit> g
and Juarez. and to express their approval t
of preparedness. 8,000 El Pasoans walked
today over a five-mile line of march in F
a monster preparedness demonstration.
Crus Valensuela. a Mexican. after watch
ing the parade, dropped dead in the' S
street. 8
Adviess fro OjUaga to Gan. Jaeintot
Trevino and made public by hi, may oIe
lieutenint colonel and two captains of I
the Ojinaga .Carransa garrison have been
executed.
The officers were charged with inciting
the garrison to revolt and join in an at
tack on Presidio. Tex. opposite Ojinaga.
One Killed, Two
Hurt in Crash
Motorcycle Hits Farm Wagon.
Child Dies at Hos
pital. 2
a
The 6-year-old daughter of Gustaf John- p
son, a marine at the navy yard, is tj
dead, and Johnson and his wife. Mrs. ri
Alice Johnson, are seriously injured at
Casualty Hospital as a result of a col
lision between a motor-tricycle in which
they were riding and a farm wagon on i
the Pennsylvania Avenue Bridge. at Sev- o
enteenth street southeast. at 12:30 o'clock C
this morning.
The child and her parents were re
moved to Casualty Hospital in a passing
machine. They were placed on operating b
tables at once. The girl died.
At an early hour this morning phy
sicians held little hope for recovery of t
the man and woman. ti
According to the police. the three were ti
returning to the city from Maryland and g
were half way across the bridge when _
they collided with the rear end of the
wagon of Robert M. Thompson. of Clin
ton, Md.. who was coming to town for
market today.
XEXTCAN DISORDERS SPREAD.
P:
All of (entral Mexico Reported 1. ai
Grip of Uprising.
El Paso. June 14.-DIsorders all through he
the central part of Mexico were reported
this afternoon by Americans arriving te
from Chihuahua City. cc
Aguas Calientes. Irapuato. Zacatecas pc
and as far west as Guadalajara. are the I<
centers of the breakaway from the Car- ca
ranza government. The whole country is p.
repixrted to be in confusion and totally er
unsaf'e for travel. Neariy 2.000 Mexican 9'
refugees from south of Torreon came up
to Juares on the train with the Amer- se
Icans, ini
or
121,720 CAPTIVE8 TAKEN.
Petregrad Reports Immense Beety
-Also Taken in Drive.
Petrograd, June 14.-Since the Russian
offensive opened 120.000 men and L730
A4ustro-Hungarian and German officers '
have been capitured, It was announced by G
the Russian war office today. The booty o1
Includes 130 cannon. 260 machIne guns, at
and rails for the construction of twenty
miles of railroad. di
The Russians. it was stated, are ad- g
vancing on the whole front between fi.
Polesla and Roumania. 0
Disho p et Cork Die..
Cork. Ireland .1Jn 14.-The Most Rev.
Thomnes A. O'Cauangha Roman Catholic M
bihpof Cork,.- died bere today. He it
simin e and annad bishon of
'OMEN AND CHILDREN
H PRESIDENT WILSON
CH AS PREPAREDNESS PLEA
'arade Swelled 26,000 Past Expectations by Lasta
Minute Recruits-Walkers Pass Chief Fxecu.
tive's Reviewing Stand for Five Hours in
City's Most Impressive Spectacle.
Aged Patriots Brave Hot Sun.
86,931 Persons in Parade,
Official Count Reveals
The official count of marchers in the preparedness parade, made der
direction of Chairman Gude, of the executi'e committee, showed that
86,931 men, women and children passed the President's reviewing stand.
This iumber was 26,931 more than the parade committee predicted, as
arrangements were made for only 6,oo.
The parade was five hours passing the President's stand.
Washington found itself yesterday.
Out of a chrysalis, of drab contentment, of workaday govermemm- af
irs, of humdrum taking things as they come, it emerged a potent. vivid
ry with a purpose.
Once, far back in the early days of the republic, the city turned out to
tfend its homes against the British. in a day of wild stress and terror. which
ided with the streets red with the flames of a burning Capitol.
Nearly half a century later its residents thronged the streets in terror once
ore, expecting an attack by the gray-lad Confederate forces under Jubal
irly. encamped just across the Maryland lipe.
HARCHERS REVEAL THAT CAPITAL IS "REAY.-'
Yesterday they turned out once more--bt this time there was no
rror.
Instead, eighty-six thousand strong, and headed by the President of the
nited States, they swept up the most historic avenue of the nation a
.im symbolization of hope and determination-hope for peace. but de
rmination that if war comes it will find the Nation's Capital ready.
From under the shadow of the outstretched hand of the Goddess of
reedom, who stands guard over the Capitol, the paraders swept in a
eady, seemingly unending, stream for more than six hours alon;; th
reet that is the city's heart, up past the White House and thcn to th2
rounds in the rear, where, afterwards, President Wilson addressed thet.L
The Presi'. on foot at the head of the parade fer I!
rst time in v C R tory quit the line at the Executic Mar
md mounted a -draped reviewing stand to watcb.
AFOXEN BRAVE SUNS GTARR
There Jim4 ed. inembers of his Cabinet, praeica2- ! i
hom had ma-e d of the men and women of thor de;
ents. They weie afr-onot. Horses would have been more L , t
tey were not there for show.
The sun shown cruelly. The route was long. There were men andJ
omen past 8 among the marchers. The asphalt of the street Ns so
ot it was soft beneath the feet. But all this was either ignorrd or fe:
otten'in the one purpose on which the minds of the 8o.ooo paraders and
)o,ooo spectators were concentrated-to demonstrate to Congress that the
ty named for the Father of his Country demands that his century-old
recept of preparedness be obeyed and that the Spirit of the Revolution
urns as brightly today as it did in '76.
There was little display and, save for the troopers from Fort Myer
id the High School Cadets, no uniforms. Here and there came a band,
id here and there a float, or a little touch of color. But for the moat
art it was a procession of solemnity. The men and women marched in
icir every-day clothes, line after line of them, swinging up past the
viewing stand.
THOUSANDS THRILLED BY SPECTAC .
And tle sincerity on the faces of the marchers was reflected in the
ousands of spectators. Occasionally at the sound of some national aiw
at the sight of a group of veterans of the Confederacy or mai of M
A. R., both marching in a now common purpose-a ripple of appam
ould sweep over the crowd.
But for the most part the crowd was silent
They were thrilled, but it was not a thrill that could be expresset
shouts and cheers. It was too deep.
The President was unable to review all of the parade. He was foe"4
> leave the stand to rest before addressing the Flag Day assemblage on
ie Monument Grounds. He left Secretary McAdoo, his son-in-law, and
ie latter's wife to act as his substitute. Not a few of the parading dele.
ations were disappointed.
9 Mrs. Wilman Wave. rie.
LATFORM TO CONDEMN "'i'' Pres'den" was in the i-'t-w
ng stand be showed marked lnte"as o .
POLITICAL HYPHENATES Od Mr. wilsol Time ad a,.,n aS
plucked at her husband's cost es'sandis
Kell informed Democrats here say pointed out some feature which appaaled
-esident Wilson's "defy" to the hyphen- to her, and when the bands aosr ahe
ed vote yeesterday is a forerunner waved a big silk flag bea tie to
e denunciation of "un-Arnericanism" tolthe music.
contained in the St. Louis platform. I There were a thousand a o t e
3ne plank in the platform will call at-I connected with the parade, but all Wab.
ntion to and condemn all alliances orl inton saw them. All Washingeo noted
mbinations which conspire for the pur-ith Wonder too that for probably the
se of "embarrassing or weakening" this first time a big parade started on the
vernment when it is dealing diplomati- minute a"heduled.
lly with another nation Any political MaJ. Pullman rode at the of the
rty which modifies its principles to procession. with a pollee eae( Aftwa.-A
barrasa an administrations dlPlonmatic hmcieUu.Gm .M ig
gotiations also wllt be co mpnned. horaygndmralfte ra.
The platform wilt aru oewbosdMein aeignd axal e
ek to debase American inttons by OtPAET.
trigue through combinatioas of political
wavedieaLeagesilk flagarbeatAingetime4.o
ThPs.JneWCnu h~is~ oereprt thusan afrndoon fomture.
cra tJaemoe costeRonnmpete wath theupar.do, bt alWash
rand to merian oil odayi ingteof athe m ol. All Wammebte nwten
repatd trets y he excan t onwithendewo tShaorrobabl hem
tafteinsltrn Isocpn s. t toi eobi ofrade sted an the
Maetatj.ioZ t i tte hni Pul.a rodth hee f brhie
ite ofthecaita wih afoce apranoces ahne wapos eeyd At -.
himn otk h aaeEdtensl cam Liut Gen. . . -eg
11.0 . iaar Falsan Rtu.horaryn tran martha o the ad,
vandiMefvrnreasenunrald mar.bal.oThh
gaitwithonacodngt 'a fromthi'aty. entai ee rvn tb
Ipha va Ih~hValey ibe'sizarU. aooFiAnE ear en ,
operarLeave aSiar FearnoAw-mBrg
e!nPa June 4.--Consu Thma Ed- ied
9rs tJaemvdars h i
