Bringing Up Father
Never Loses Its Keen Wit and
Delightful Humor
? YEAR ^,VS6,L
Frank' Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
t I
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916.?SIXTEEN PAGES. ?'V *" ?UNSETTLED PRICE. TWO CENTS.
PRESIDENT HURLS I
OPEN CHALLENGE
AT HYPHENATES
Defies Foreign-Born Citi
zens Who Oppose His
Re-Election.
THEY TRY TO LEVY SPECIES
OF POLITICAL BLACKMAIL
Disloyalty, Now Active in U. S.,
Must Be Absolutely Crushed.
He Declares.
PREDOMINANT CAMPAIGN ISSl'E
Kverutive Delivers Flan-Day Speech
After Walking nt Head of Pre
paredness Parade.
WASHINGTON. June 14.?A vcluirs'!
? hit foreign-born citizens of the United
S' a tes arc trying to levy political black
mail ari to undermine. the inttuencc of
ihr national uovoriimfiiit was made by
President Wilson In a Flag-Day speech
here io-da'- His assertion souniftd tho
keynote of on* of the foremost issues
on which h<- will no before the country
for re-election, an<l touched upon a
platform declaration which will be sub
mitted by the administration ro the
St Louis convention.
The President spoke before a crowd
of thousands gathered at ilie foot of
the Washington Monument, after ho
had reviewed for five hours a great
preparedness parade, at the head of
which ho himself had inarched down
Pennsylvania Avenue. He declared that
not >i!ve '.he Civil War had It heen
teste 1 as it now is being tested whether
:he Stars and Stripes stood for any one
united purpose.
"There Is disloyalty active in the
r.iteii states, and it must be absolutely
'?'jfihed." declared th?* President, speak
er emphatically. "It proceeds from a
Minority, a very sn:all minority, but
."i very active and subtle minority.
I (II U.'I'V TO PUli Flit.ST
TEST OF TOl.KltA ,\CK
"It works underground, but it alco
aow.v ;ts usly head where we con see
? ? and there arc those at this moment
??no are trying to levy a species of
political blackmail, saying. 'Do what
w wish in the interest of foreign senti
ment. or *a <? will wreak our vengeance
;?t the polls- That is the sort of thing
against ?vhlvh the American nation
will turn with a might ami triumph
of sentiment which will te.ich these
gentlemen once for all that loyalty to
this Hag is th** first test of tolerance
in the United States."
The President's words taken a^
open challenge to foreign-born Ameri
cans who, he has learned from foreign
language newspapers and other sources
; re opposing him for re-election. <'[?
ticialf close to birr, said lie wa& outlin
ing his stand oji what he had deter
mined to make a predominant issue in
his campaign. While the Democratic
campaign was being opened at St.
Louis, Mr. Wilson devoted the entire
day to the Flag Day and preparedness
demonstration. Carrying a large Amer
ican flag, he walked from the. Capitol
?o the White House at the head of
more than 'xmi inarchei>. including
i;iany high government oitlcials. Civil
War veterans, employees of :i!l th<- gov
ernment departments and of the local
[??jslr.ess houses, companies of cadets
and national guardsmen.
Union and Confederate Veterans and
Sons of Veterans marched close to
cether, and wore constantly cheered.
OF THK SOUTH"
CO.MI'OSE O.VF. DIVISION
Tlie Sons of Confederate Veterans,
including commands from Virginia and
Maryland, were grouped with the
Southern Society of Washington as the
"Sons of the South," and composed a
*'division of more than 1,000. They? in
cluded Senators and Representatives
. r.d other men of prominence. Ernest
W. Baldwin, of Roanoke. Va? national
commander-in-chief of flit- Sons of Con
federate Veterans: W. W. Old, of Nor
folk. A a., and Clarence .1. Owens, past
commanders-in-chief, and Everett W
Beckmann. commander of the Wash
ington camp, bended that organization.
The parade started from.the Capitol
t.rounds, and as its head passed the
White House the President dropped out
and took his place in the reviewing
stand. He was Joined there by Secre
taries McAdoo, Rcdfield, Lane and Wil
, ;='.n. Postmaster-General Burleson and
Attorney-General Gregory, who had
marched nt the head of employees of
their departments, and by Secretary
Lansing. As soon as the last marchers
passed the stand five hours later, the
President went to the monument
grounds, where his address formed the
principal part f,f an hour's patriotic
r xercises.
The program began with a national
t" a lute of twenty-one gnns and the
Marine Band played the "Star-Spangled
Banner." while a huge /lag was drawn
slowly to the top of the white monu
ment, ">53 feet above the ground. Sec
retary Lansing presided, and In intro
ducing the President emphasized the
duty of present-day Americans to pre
serve unsullied ideals handed down by
the founders of the republic.
NOT OM.iV DAY OF SF.NTI MKNT,
11UT OXK OF PUHPOSE, TOO
The President's address follows:
"Mr. Secretary. Ladies and Gentlemen
"I have not come here this afternoon
with the purpose of delivering to you
an elaborate address, it. seems to mo
that the day is sufficiently eloquent
already with the meaning which it
should convoy to us ... 7 need not
^remind you how much sentiment has
(Continued on Second Page.)
Washington and Return, $2.00
from Richmond. Ticket* good only on
special triiln leaving Slinfer and Broad
KireetH. S:30 a. ,\t. Saturday, .tune 17th.
und returning, leave \Vnnhinuton S:uo P. it
same date. ?Adv.
Bryan to Take Stump
for President Wilson
ST. LOUIS, June 14.?While the
rrnoliitlotiH committee v?n? In *en
*lon, Samuel A. King, of Hoh, roue
ninl mndc till* utatementi
"I called on Wlllluni .1. Itrynn und
nuked If he would Hiilnnlt ony planlcn.
He replied s
"'I Iihvc no filankn to offer hut
one. und (lint In ihr Prealdenr*.
Determine wlint he nnnti, nnd IiIm
pluukx ?>lll he mini'. 1 expect to gi>
before the people In Ii!m hehalf on
your report.'"
JPP1IIED Bt PRESIDENT
Chief Executive Determines to Meet
Hyphenate Issue as Conclu
sively as Possible.
DIRECT AND UNEQUIVOCAL
Carries Some of Ideas Expressed in
Klu^-Day Speech?Wilson Probably
Will Indicate To-Day His Choice
for National Chairman.
WASHINGTON. June H?President
Wilson to-day approved a plank on
A iner lean ism for the Democratic na
tional platform which arraigns Indi
viduals or alliance* seeking to emtai
Mps thft Kovernment in negotiations
w!j)i foreign governments and con
demns any political party which modi
tics its policy for fear of political" con
sequences.
The President decided to challenge
openly Americans of alien blrili oppos
ing his foreign policies. Learning from
editorials In some foreign-language pa
per.- that they were supporting the Re
publican nominee. Mr. Wilson sent word
to his personal representatives in St.
Louis to make the plank on American
ism direct and unequtvocal.
The pi.ink on Americanism, drawn
partially here and partially in st.
I-ouis. had been completed to-night, and
was ready for submission to the reso
lutions committee of the convention.
It was taken for granted that It would
!??> embodied in the platform practically
as written.
The. plank carries out some of the
i'lean expressed by the President in a
Plug-Day address here to-day accusing
ft small group of Americans of foreign
extraction of attempting "to levy po
litical blackmail-' to gain their ends.
It further states that the Democratic
party will not be influenced bv such
"blackmail" > and, in effect, challenges
the Republican nominee to take a
similar stand.
DK.VOINOKII FOII I.VTKIlPKIIIIVR
WITH AMIOKICA.V IXSTITl'TIOXS
Koreigii-born Americans are severely
< : :ti-<ZCM| for interfering in behalf of
foreign nation* |? the relations between
the t tilled States and other countries
J be Plank denounces men who seek to
tnt-r.oie with American institutions bv
political orpanixatlons un.ler foreign
itii'.uence.
Kei.orts that < fforts were to be made
? ? St Louis to put Into the platform
?' declaration in favor of an embargo
<?n arms and other proposals which the
lesident consider# unneutral strength
en/, VV',8?n hl" "^ ? 'nation
to meet the so-called hyphenate issue as
conclusively as possible.
The President kepi in close touch
with tne situation at St. Louis to-day
m ule hi ?J? H 'StlI''S ?f which
' hl" <i:,V unusually strenuous. Be
fore marching in the preparedness pa
ta? t- here, and while reviewing it he
received reports from administration
leaders at the convention. Mr. "Wilson
considers the campaign for the presi
dency on in earnest, and his spokesmen
lieto say he will keep constantly on
the aggressive.
Many telegrams warmly praising the
I keynote of speech of former Governor
.1 inn at St. Louis enme to the Presl
to-night from delegates to the
convention. Mr. Wilson seemed much
:P eased particularly at the reception
of the temporary chairman's tribute to
j the. course of the administration in
I keeping the nation out of war. It has
been understood that a declaration
i supporting that course ivould be made
I a prominent part of the platform,
j Bernard Baruch, a New Vork flnan
| t ier discussed the political situation
I with the President for an hour and
| a half late this afternoon.
OPPOSIOS IIRh'I.KtTIOiV
ox iii;r;HKs fx I'Latfoiim
Mr. Williams let it be known that
he opposes a declaration in the plat
form against the election of Federal
i t" public ofllre. Such a plank
j was suggested by some Democrats at
St. Louis as a reflection upon Mr.
; Hughes, but the President sent word
j that he was anxious to keep pcrsonall
j ties out of the campaign as far as
possible.
i The President probably will indicate
to the delegates at St. Louis to-morrow
; his choicc for chairman of the national
committee. Opposition has developed
! an,?nK committee members to Homer
j On minings of Connecticut. The name
of \ ance McCormick, former candidate
for Governor of Pennsylvania, has been
suggested. Secretary McAdoo and
J Postmaster-General Burleson conferred
with the President on the question to
' night.
PI, A Mi o.\ AMKIUCAXISM
,T T nw J"*, ( AREP,!,','V STUniKI)
; NT. LOblb. .lune 14.?President Wll
! son s plank on Americanism, for the
Democratic plutform, practically charg
ing a conspiracy by some foreign-born
<itizens in foreign and Internal affairs
for the benefit of other governments,
! ?nm,ntr any organization
j countenancing such movements, as
well as any political party, which, by
i ? lure to repudiate such a conspiracy.
? receives the benefit of It at tho ballot
)ox, was telegraphed here to-night
from Washington and placed before
the Democratic leaders.
m3 ^he, rcs?hitions committee, which
will draft the platform and pass on
the plank, was engaged at a late hour
to-night in continuing public hearings
of persons urging various declarations
in the platform, the plank which has
(Continued on Second Page.)
RUSSIAN FORCES I
NEAR CZERNOWITZ
Latest Advance Puts Them Only
\
Twenty Miles Northwest of
Bukowina Capital.
NO CESSATION IN OFFENSIVE
In Eleven Days' Drive More
Than 120,000 Men Have
Been Captured.
An advance of about twenty miles by
i the Russians, who have Cznerowitz as
their objective is chronicled in tho
latest Russian official communication.
Having previously crossed the Dniester
River and taken Horodenka and Za
leszczyky, the Russians have now
driven their men to the left bank of
the River Pruth and captured the
town of Sniatyn. which lies only
1 twenty miles northwest of the Buko
wina capital.
Nowhere on the front from the Pri
pet River in Russia and through Ga
licia to Bukowina has there been any
. cessation in the great Russian offen
sive. Along the entire line, according
to the Russian War Office, the Austro
i Hungarians and Germans are beinsc
driven back, and the Russians are still
i taking thousands of prisoners and cap
turing guns, machine guns and war
supplies. In the eleven days' drl\e
1,780 officers, 120,000 men, 130 guns and
260 machine guns have been captured
RUSSIANS TAKE INITIATIVE
INTO THEIR OWN HANDS
On the lower end of the German
line in Russia, to the north of Barano
? vlchl, the Russians evidently have an
ticipated the proposed German offen
sive, and taken the initiative into their
! own hands. Here, after violent ar
tillery preparation, they seven times
essayed to storm the German lines.
Berlin says, however, that all their
elforts failed, and that they were re
pulsed with heavy losses.
The fighting around Verdun has
dwindled to intermittent bombard
ments. There have hecn no infantry
attacks anywhere on this front since
Tuesday, when French positions west
and south of Thiaumont farm were
captured by the Germans and 793
Frenchmen made prisoner. The Ca
; nadians around Zillebeke, in Belgium,
are holding to t'.ie 1,500 yards of
ground recaptured from the Germans
? on Tuesday, although the Germans are
heavily uheUing them. No infantry
attacks have been carried out by the
T eutons.
The latest advices from the Aus
trian-Italian war theater credit the
Italians with repulsing violent aus
i trian attacks on the Posina front,
northwest of Schio. <?n the other sec
tors of this line the Austrians bom
barded the'Italian positions.
lililt MAN A l\ 11,1 A It V CRUISER
ATTACKED AM) SUNK
The German auxiliary cruiser Herz
mann has been attacked and sunk in
tiie Baltic southeast of Stockholm by
four Russian torpedo-boat destroyers,
according to Berlin. Reports from
, Sweden and Denmark cencerning the
fight say that it was between Russian
torpedo craft and a German auxiliary
cruiser, some torpedo-boats and armed
trawlers which were convoying Ger
man merchantmen. In addition to the
! auxiliary cruiser and a German de
i stroyer, twelve of the merchantmen
; ?re reported to have been sunk,
i It is anticipated in London that
1 David Lloyd George will take the place
j of the late Earl Kitchener as British
: Secretary for War. In case Lloyd
j George accepts the portfolio, it is not
; believed that he will give up entirely
; his present duties as Minister of Muni
; tions.
[RUSSIANS OCCUPY VILLAGE
20 MILES FROM CZEItXOWITZ
PETROGRAD, June 14 (vin London),
j?In their advance upon Cserncwitz.
the capital of Bukowina, the Russians
have occupied the village, of Sniatyn.
twenty miles northwest of the city,
the War Office announced to-day.
; In addiliOYi to their previous cap
j lures, the Russians have tak?jn twei.tv
; officers, fi.000 men, six guns and ten
, machine guns.
; The announcement says:
"Western front?Along the whole
i front from the southward of Polesia
j to the Roumanian frontier our troops
j continue to drive back the enemy.
| During yesterday twenty officers and
i about fi.000 men were taken prisoners.
I We have taken six cannon, ten ma
chine tuns and many artillery and
ammunition wagons. The total of
prisoners and trophies captured dur
ing the operations amount to nearly
120.000 men, 1,780 officers. 130 cannon
and 2(10 machine guns.
"Reports which have been received
1 say the enemy abandoned at certain
I points quantities of various kinds of
j war materials of such bulk as to make
it impossible to give an exact descrip
tion at such notice; as an instance, we
found abandoned sufficient rails for
field railways to cover thirty verts
(about twenty miles).
"Many of the enemy units are com
pletely disorganized, judging by the
fact that in the fighting from June 6
to 11. General Steherbatchoff, in a com
paratively insignificant sector, cap
tured 414 officers, 17,000 soldiers,
twenty-nine guns, thirty-nine machine
i guns, fifty-five caissons and other
| booty.
j MRS. PREST0N IN H0SPITAL
j Former >lm, Grover Cleveland Report
ed oh Retting Comfortably Af
ter Itelng Operated On.
fSpecial to The Times-Dispatoh.]
MEW YORK. June 14.?Mrs. Thomas
J. Preston, Jr., formerly Mrs. Grover
Cleveland, underwent an operation to
day at tho Roosevelt Hospital. She
was reported as resting comfortably
afterward and the officials said she
probably will be able to return home
In a fnw days.
Fan* tiolnr to Baltimore, Attention!
I Travel via YORK RIVER LINE. \Vo?K.er)d
I ticket*, 14 round trip. Friday to Tuesday.
Flno stoa.mers.~Adv.
ROARING CHEERS GREET
GLYNN'S KEYNOTE SPEECH
MO WTO N D. IIAK10II. MARTIN H. UIiY.NN.
Heart of Democracy
Swells With Pride
as It Hails Wilsor
Glynn Makes Eloquent Ap
peal to "Americanism"
in His Keynote
Speech.
ST. LOUIS, Juno 14.?"With the as
sertion that no President since th<>
Civil War has had as crucial problems
to solve; and no President has dis
t played a grasij raorq J.yre, a statesman
ship rndW jjro#ound[ as President Wll
i son. Martin H. Olynn, former Gov
ernor of New Tork, opened the Demo
cratic National Convention here to
day. Declaring: that "Americanism and
peace, preparedness and prosperity^??
are the issues upon which the Demo
cratic party stands, and the heart of
Democracy swells with pride that in
more than a pride of party, as it hails
the man, who has asserted this Ameri
canism, assured this peace, advocated
this preparedness -and produced this
prosperity," he predicted the re-elec
tion of President Wilson.
Taking up our foreign relations that
has been called into emphatic promi
nence by the world-wide war, the
: speaker declared that "We have en
tered this hall as Democrats; we shall
deliberate as Americans." . . . The
policy of neutrality, he argued, is as
| truly American as the American flap.
! For 200 years neutrality was a theory;
! America made it a fact. "It took
Washington and his successors eighty
| years of endless negotiation to win
recognition of American neutrality.
! And this eighty years of struggle
| wove the doctrine of neutrality so
closely Into the warp and woof of our
national life that to tear It out now
| would unravel the very threads of our
existence." By the records of history
Mr. Glynn maintained that if Wash
ington and Lincoln were right, Presi
dent Wilson is right. The neutrality
that President Wilson stands for to
day was advocated by Washington, by
Hamilton, by Jefferson and by Lincoln.
By citing precedents, Mr. Glynn
Justified and defended the course of
| the President in the Lusitania and
I similar incidents, "in the face of this
| record." he asked; "Do Republicans
realize that when they arraign the
j policy of the President of the United
States to-day they arraign the policy
| of Harrison, of Blaine, of Lincoln and
, of fJrant? For the pleasure of criti
cizing a Democratic. President, are
they wiV.Ing to read out of the Repub
lican party the greatest /men the Re
publican party ever had? Are they
willing to say that the Republican
I party of to-day condemns what Ham
ilton did in Revolutionary days, what
Lincoln did In Civil War days, and
what Grant and Blaine and Harrison
did but yesterduy?
FOLLOWS BXAMPLK SK'I1
BY GREATEST I'ltKSIDF.NTS
"In his policy of peaceful negotia
tions to-day, the President of the
United States follows the example set
him by the greatest Presidents which
the Democratic, party and the greatest
Presidents the Republican party ever
gave this nation."
Mr Glynn impressed on his hearers
that it .was the business of this con
vention, "representing'every section of
the United Stntes, speaking for every
racial strain in America, to send forth
a message to all the world that will
leave no room for doubt.
"We must enable every real Ameri
can to stand up and assert his Ameri
canism. We must make the Issue so
clear that every ballot box in the land
may become a monument to the loyalty
of American manhood.
"The citixens of this country must
stand behind their President because
his policies are right. They will stand
behind him because his policies are
the pollclos which have brought tho
t atlon a century of prosperous and
honored peace. They will stand be
hind him because they want these
policies continued, that prosperity pro
longed. that peace assured."
Ho pointed out that the promise
made four, years ago that a Democratic
administration would liberate the na
Accepts N. C. Design
for Campaign Button
ST. LOUIS, .lane 14#?'The nntlonal
committee hn? ndoptrd a denlKn tor
a campulKt* button suggested by
National Committeeman McLean, of
North Carolina. It benr* n picture
of President WlUon. with the
motto. "America Flr?t" In hold red
letter*. The North Carollnn dele
tion .UPointren< ;,r
Edward E. Brlttou, of that Stnte.
for permanent ?ecretary of the
convention. He held the place four
ream n*?.
tion from the chains of Industrial
tyranny ha? been carricd out. He
eulogized the Federal reserve act and
declared that the "scholar-statesman.
whose rod has struck the golden rook
of America's resources, to set free the
wealth imprisoned for half a century,
is a Moses who has led Americas In
dustries from the wilderness of doubt
I and despair to the Promised Land of
1 prosperity and Hope."
i The laws restraining big business
'from stilling' competition, the trades
commission act. the movement to fos
ter expansion of American trade, the
'.close union of economic, commercial
and financial Interests between the
United States and the nations of South
America are shown to he legislation of
the widest benefit. The Underwood
i^rlff Mr Glynn characterized as the
fairest and the best of all we have
enacted Under the present adminis
tration. the United Slates has enjoyed
a wonderful era of good business and
good times.
MUST rllOVE WORTHY
OF TRUST IMPOSED
The American's Ideals and his as
pirations served as the basis for the
speaker's opening discussion.
??We who stand to-day on the fer
tile ?oil of America, who live under the
smiling skies of a free and fruitful
land, muot prove worthy of the trust
that American sacrifice has imposed
1 on evert American.
I -.Disregarding the divisions that
Tnak- one man a Tory and another
a Whig, one man a Republican and
another a Democrat. Americans will
cast aside, the tinsel of party labels
and the mummery of party emblems.
-From the great pulsing heart of
the nation will come a patriot com
mand to crush partisanship, and rebuke ,
whatever is mean or blind.
i "That command will be heard by
iihe plowman in his field, and by the
! laborer at his bench. It will reft.-h
(the merchant in his olllce and the,
? lawyer at his desk. We would he false
to ourselves, and recreant to those who
send us here if we permitted any
thought of partisan profit, any con
i ^deration of political advantage to
i obscure our vision of the tremendous
issues now before the people of the
United States. We must cast aside all
that is selfish, we must hold ourselves
worthy of a nations confidence by
offering only the best of our intelli
gence, the flower of our patriotism to
I ward the solution of what all men per
ceive to be. a crisis in the nation's af
< fairs." , ,
In asking for an indorsement of the
President's peace policy, Mr. Glynn
"For two years the world has been
afire; the civilization that we know
lias been torn by the mightiest j
struggle in its history. Sparks from
Europe's conflagration have blazed In ?
our own skies, echoes of her strife I
have sounded at. our very doors. That
fire still burns, that struggle still con
tinues. but thus far the United States
has held the flame at bay; ,thus far
It has saved Us people from participa
tion In the conflict.
?'What the people of the I nlted
States must determine through their
suffrage, is whether the course the
countrv has pursued through this
crucial period is to be continued:
whether the principles that have been
(Continued on Third Page.)
WIM.IA.M F. McCOMllS.
CHALLENGE IS ISSUED
TO REPUBLICAN Fill*
First Mention of Wilson's Name by
Former Governor Glynn Results
in Demonstration.
CHEER FOR SIXTKFN MINUTES
Virginians, lied by Congressman
Flood, Take Conspicuous Part in
Outburst?Defense of Administra
tion Is Effective.
IIV CHAR1.GS 15. HASIIItOOK.
ST. I.OIJ1S, Juno 14.?The Democratic
| challenge to the Republican party was
Issued to-day. when former Governor
Martin II. Glynn, of New York, de
livered his keynote speech to more than
2.000 delegates and alternates at tho
; opening session of the Democratic Na
I tionnl Convention.
The very first mention of President
! Wilson's nanto toy the orator this
afternoon resulted in a demonstration
that reminded one of the stormy days
1 of the llaltimore convention four years
' ago. The entire body of the delegates
rose from their seats and for sixteen
minutes thundered their approval of
j their administration at Washington and
Us spokesman before the convention.
No delegation took more conspicuous
' part In the demonstration than did the
; Virginians. New Jersey's delegates
when the applause was at its height
I lifted the standard of their State from
1 its position and started a parade about
1 the floor. "We gave you Wilson," they
shouted. Instantly Congressman Flood
) chairman of tho Virginia delegation.
; grabbed the Virginia standard from its
i place and. with the cry. "lie was bred
in old Virginia," fell in behind tho
Jerseynns, each Virginian following
him. Maryland and Texas followed, a
Texas delegate carrying a large flag
with the Lone Star emblem.
IIjIjI'STH ATRS 10 N Til Li SIA 8M
SHOWN IIV CONVENTION"
This incident is illustrative of tho
' enthusiasm the convention showed to
: day, and each sentiment from the lips
I of the keynoter seemed to have tho
i samo electrifying- effect upon the dele
gates. Time and again it became neces
sary for the convention officers to dis
patch men to tho. lloor to beg for quiet
j and an opportunity for former Gover
nor Glynn to conclude his speech.
And in this conclusion It must bo
reckoned that the New Yorker achieved
a great personal triumph. He wasn't
a well-known figure to the delegates,
.as a whole. Me did not have on his
i side the weight of such a personality
| as Mr. Bryan. for instance, might have
| had, but, in spite of this, he captured
his audience and held all in his spell
with great effect.
] The defense of the Wilson administra
| tlon was effective and gave an outline
of the campaign which the Democrats
will pursue. This will exalt the bless
! Ings of peace, but will, at the samo
I time, warn the country that peace. is
not to h? purchased at any price. This
I is sound Americanism, and the Repub
licans will have to proceed far if they
find any doctrine more appealing lo
! the country.
1 Governor Stuart will second Wilson's
! nomination on behalf of the Virginia
delegation.
FOR U. C. V. REUNION
I'rr liinltiury IMiiiim of ICo tert nluiiien t
for 1017 Encampment DIkcuskciI
In WusliliiKton.
, WASHINGTON, June 14.?T'rellml
I nary plans for entertaining the United
Confederate Veterans at their encatnp
! merit here in May, 1017. were discussed
| to-night at a dinner given by the
| Southern Commercial Congress In
| honor of Ernest G. Haldxvin, of ftoa
! noke, V?i., commander-in-chief of tho
I Sons of Confederate Veterans,
j An arrangements committee, will be
| organized soon, it was decided, to pre
pare for the celebration. Active co
operation of the Southern Commercial
Congress was pledged by Senator
Fletcher, of Florida, president, and
j Clarence J. Owens, director-general of
! president of the Southern Society of
j the organization. Slni.lar promises
I were made by Captain C. C. Calhoun,
I Washington; W. Everett llrockrnan.
! commander of tho Sons of Veterans in
' tho District of Columbia, und Mr. Bald
win.
V
PRAISE OF WILSON
SIS DELEGATES
TO LONG OUTBURST
Enthusiastic Approval for
Peaceful Conduct of
Foreign Affairs.
PRESIDENT IS JUSTIFIED
BY HISTORIC PARALLELS
"Americanism and Peace. Pre
paredness and Prosperity"
Sounded as Slogan.
12,000 AT OPENING SESSION
Adjournment Taken in Memory of
Thomas J. Pence, Lute Na
tional Secretary.
ST LOUIS. June. 14.?The Democratic
National Convention at its first session
to-day heard the keynote of American
ism anil peace, preparedness and pros
perity. sounded by former Governor
Ulyn'n of New York, as temporary
chairman, and. with a high pitch of
enthusiasm, emphatically registered ?>
demonstration after demonstration its
approval of President Wilson's peaceful
conduct of foreign affairs.
The convention, which had gotten
under wav with such perfunctory dem
onstrations as mark every national
gathering ot the kind, soon stirred
itself into roaring cheers as Chairman
Glynn cited historic parallels to show
that other Presidents, including Repub
licans. had adjusted threatening for
' elgn situations without resort to war.
"The policy of the administration,"
he declared, "lia* been just as American
as the American (la*; itself.
As he went down the list of Presi
dents. recounting their action to avoid
war. the delegates caught the spirit
of his argument, and as he referred
to each particular President some dele
gate would call, "W hat. did ho do?
"He settled the trouble by negotia
tion." was the reply which Glynn in
variably returned, and the convention
would roar S's approval.
IIIt V A N IVKRI'S WITH EMOTION
AS litiVN N TALKS OF PEACE
William J. Bryan, as a newspaper
j correspondent in the press stand, wept
with emotion as Glynn pictured the vic
tories of peace, but he laughed with the
; crowd when a Texas delegate, inter
rupt tug Glynn, leaped to his chair and
cried, "And don't forget that policy also
is satisfactory to William Jennings
l.ir j an."
Aside from a sixteen-minute demon
stration which began when Chairman
Glynn predicted President Wilsons re
election, Glynn's speech was sprinkled
with demonstrations which he found it
ditllcult to stem so he could go on. It
was plain that the telling points on the
delegates were the recital of President
Wilson's efforts to keep the country at
peace.
"This policy." he said, "may not
.satisfy the tire-eater and swashbuckler,
but tt does satisfy the mothers of the
land, at whoso hearth and tireside jingo
istic war has placed an empty chair.
It does satisfy the daughters of this
land, from whom bluster and brag have
sent the loving brother to the dissolu
tion of the grave, it does satisfy tho
fathers of this land and the sons of
this land who will fight for our flag
and die for our flag when reason primes
the rltle, when honor draws the sword
and when justice breathes a blessing
on the standard they uphold." The last
of the words were drowned out in a
roar of applause that swept tho Coli
seum.
"Repeat it'." cried the delegates.
"Repeat it!"
"All right, be quiet, and I'll repeat
it," responded Glynn, and he did, to
applause and cheering.
!SO OTHER PHKSIDKXT HAS FACED
MOKE CHl'CIAL PROBLEMS
No other President since the Civil
War. Glynn told the convention, had
faced such crucial problems, none had
displayed a grasp of statesmanship
more profound.
"Whether the course the. country has
pursued during this crucial period is
to he continued, and whether the prin
ciples that have been asserted as our
national policy shall be indorsed or
withdrawn," Glynn told tho convention
was the paramount question for tho
voters to decide. "N'o lesser issue must,
cloud it," said he. "no unrelated prob
lems must confuao it."
Afler hearing the keynote speech, tho
convention adjourned until 11 o'clock
to-morrow. Committees then went into
session to prepare their work for the
session
The committee on resolutions in
charge of tb? work of drawing up the
platform Included Larry 1. Moore, of
North Carolina; K. D. Smith, of South
Carolina, and Thomas S. Martin, of Vlr?
; glnia.
When National Chairman McCombg
[called the convention to order. 12,000
delegates, alternates and spectators
j packed the big Coliseum. Member* of
the national committee, membors of
President Wilson's Cabinet and party
I leaders had places on the platform,
j Plaster medallions of Washington,
1 Jackson. Jefferson and Cleveland
! looked down upon the delegates from
i the decorations, which consisted unt
1 formly of nothing but th? American
i flag. Tho only picture of President
