1
PATRIOTIC_APPEAL
The Venerable Judge Ives Urges Scan-
dinavians to Support the Best
Man for U. S. Senator.
Knew and Respected the Late Dr.
Norelius and Thinks the Advice
of Son is Timelv and Good.
M. S. Norelius' article the Chisa
go County Press appealing to Scandi
navian voters to be fair and not at
tempt to fill all the important offices
with men of their own nationality, has
been commented on favorably by men
and newspapers of prominence
every section of the state. We take
pleasure reproducing this tribute to
the elder Norelius and patriotic appeal
to fair-minded Scandinavians to sup
port the best men for public position
regardless of their nationality, which
is from the pen of the venerable
Judge Frank Ives of Cass Lake:
"With an intimate, early acquain
tance with the elder Norelius, father
of the writer of the above article,
and a long acquaintance with his con
duct as a leader among his country
men in the United States we cannot
but believe that the expressed opinion
of the writer will be profoundly re
spected and adopted by those who
have the past been aided and di
rected by his esteemed father. We
have no preference in nationalities,
the Scandinavian, the German, the
Englishman, the Irishman and all
others of whatsoever nationalities are
the same to us, provided only that
they are capable, honest and true to
the nation they have^adopted. We do
not believe that it is wise or even
practical to fill the most important
offices we have to distribute with men
of any one nationality, especially
when there are others of different
birth aspirants equally if not more
efficiently endowed with the knowl
edge necessary to ably fill an impor
tant position. The Scandinavians have
one representative in our national
senate and should be content when a
candidate far superior in intellect and
power is brought out for one of the
important places in our system of
government. None can doubt the
honor, ability or the patriotism of
Frank B. Kellogg he is one of the
strongest and most capable men of
the age and his election as United
States senator would reflect great
credit upon us.
"If the voters of Minnesota desire
to send an efficient man to represent
the state the U. S. senate there
can be no doubt of the duty of the
voter at the coming primaries. In
ability and power to represent us
there can be no comparison he has
done many difficult services for us
and will serve us as manfully and fer
vently as his colleague has done for
many years. We have Knute Nelson
and are proud of him for his many
manly acts of patriotic devotion to
his adopted country, now give us
Frank B. Kellogg as his colleague and
Minnesota will be represented as none
of the other states can boast of."
Duluth Boosters Visit Princeton.
Princeton welcomed the Duluth
Boosters right royally last Friday,
during their stop here of an hour at
noon, despite the fact that showers
interfered with the plans of the local
committee somewhat.
The party was made up of about 100
Zenith City business men, including
part of the Third regiment band, and
they were completing a tour of five
,days duration, by special tram, having
visited 117 towns.
The special reached Princeton about
12:15 p. m., and hundreds of our citi
zens greeted the tourists. The depot
was first invaded, where the band
favored those congregated with sev
eral stirring selections, while a com
mittee of Princeton young ladies
pinned bouquets upon the visitors. The
boosters were then conveyed down
town, and Main street was paraded by
the Zenith City enthusiasts, who
marched to the strains of music dis
coursed by their truly excellent band.
The band was more than generous in
"rendering selections, and numerous of
our citizens congregated upon Main
street to listen to and applaud it.
The purpose of the tour was to ad
vertise Duluth, and encourage the
"business men of the cities and villages
visited to investigate the prices and
goods of Duluth wholesale houses be
fore making future purchases. A
neatly printed booklet, containing
statistics and facts anent the develop
ment of the city at the head of the
lakes, and its advantages as a market
point, were distributed.
While the wide-awake visiting
boosters were here Princeton did a
little advertising for itself, and cards
containing the following statistics
were handed out to the visitors:
Princeton, Minn., Business of 1915.
IMPORTS
Meichandise, cais 615
EXPORTS.
Potatoes, cars 2200
Hay, cais 73
Li\e Stock, cars 200
Cream, daily, cans 15
Butter, weekly, tubs 400
Mdse Sales, retail, 1915 SS79.000
Bank Deposits $800,000
The aggressive business men of Du
luth certainly know how to go after
business and the tour should be pro
ductive of much good.
Both of Duluth/s excellent news-
papersThe News-Tribune and Even
ing Herald were represented, and
the Herald had the following to sty
of the stop at Princeton:
At Princeton, it should be added, a
committee of business men and an
other of women, comprising the pret
tiest kinds of girls seen by the Du
luth men a state full of beauty, met
the crowd and extended the heartiest
of welcomes. The girls had bouquets
ready and pinned them on the Duluth
men. Despite a heavy rain
which fell during the first part of the
time spent there, it is generally con
ceded by those on the special that
Princeton succeeded in giving one of
the very heartiest receptions that was
tendered during the whole trip. Prince
ton was well organized for the occa
sion, and the committees, seemingly
of every business man and every
woman and girl in the city, were dis
tinguished by the yellow ribbons worn
on which was expressed a hearty wel
come to Duluth. Scores of autos were
on hand to take care of the visitors
and everything possible was done to
make the stay pleasant. The chief re
gret of the tourists was that a longer
time than one hour had not been pro
vided in the schedule for Princeton.
Senator W. A. Campbell of Minne
apolis, one of the best friends that
Duluth and St. Louis county has in
the state legislature, was on hand to
help the welcome, and he accom
panied the tourists .rom Princeton to
Milaca.
The head booster was Frank X.
Gravel of the Stone-Ordean-Wells Co.,
dressed in white duck and beating time
with a white umbrella he led the
procession. Frank was the youngest
old man of the bunch, and was the
''Lfe and soul" of the party. He was
a little nervous though when spinning
over the rock road at a 40-mile per
hour clip.
Another jolly booster was Charles
F. Macdonald, secretary of the Duluth
Board of Trads. He is a son of the
venerable C. F. Macdonald of St. Cloud.
Still another of the boosters that the
Union was glad to meet was an old
friend, Sam Staples. Sam is growing
fat, but is as youthful as he was 20
years ago.
Ed. Gilboy. the former well known
conductor on the Eastern Minnesota
and now yard master at Superior, was
warmly greeted by many of his old
friends.
Senator '"Bill Campbell of Minneapo
lis, who joined the boosters at Zim
znemian, was so favorably impressed
with the gang that he is seriously
thinking of taking up his abode in the
"Zenith City."
Of course politics was tabooed by
the boosters, but many of them were
not at all backward in expressing their
preference for Frank B. Kellogg for
senator. Kellogg, they said, is a
prime favorite with the business men
of Duluth.
Final Services.
Funeral services of the late Mrs.
Ellen Blair were conducted from the
Greenbush Catholic church Saturday
morning at 10 o'clock. Rev. Fr. Wil
lenbrnk officiated and he paid a de
served tribute to the worth and char
acter of deceased. The final services
were largely attended, and the floral
tributes were beautiful. Interment
was the church cemetery.
Among those from out of town who
attended the obsequies were the fol
lowing: John Blair, Elk River C.
Blair, St. Paul Mrs. Mary Neumann,
Bemidji Mrs. Rose Price, Bergsville
John Blair, Minneapolis A. F. Pan
chott, and Mrs. Fred Neumann of For
eston.
Mrs. C. A. Grow and the other chil
dren desire to express their deepest
thanks to all who extended aid and
words of sympathy to them in their
recent bereavement. They are truly
grateful.
Girls of the '60's Meet.
Saturday, June 10, and the home of
Mrs. J. C. Borden, were the time and
place of a delightful gathering of the
"Girls of the 60's," with Mrs. Borden
and Mrs. Libby as hostesses.
The day was perfect, the refresh
ments delicious, and the "girls" in
their best possible spirits, all of which
contributed to make the occasion one
of the most enjoyable in the history of
the organization. The selection of an
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916
emblematic flower was discussedthe
choice falling unanimously upon the
purple violet so that henceforth this
flower or its attendant color should be
in evidence at these meetings.
Ten of the "girls" were present, and
true to the staying qualities which they
are reputed to possess, the evening
was well on its way toward midnight
before the guests had all dispersed and
the party become a happy memory.
Annual Alumni Banquet.
The annual banquet of the Alumni
association of the Princeton high
school was held at the I. O. O. F. hall
last Tuesday evening and each one of
the 79 present pronounced it the best
ever. It was a splendid success in
every way.
A pleasing program preceded the
banquet proper, and it opened with a
selection by the high school orchestra.
A reading by Miss Gertrude Bishop
followed, and it was well received. Miss
Marguerite Byers then favored those
present with a vocal solo, and a read
ing was next given by Miss Laura
McVicar. After a well executed violin
solo by Miss Irene Umbehocker, Miss
Estella Schumacher gave a reading,
and the program closed with a pleas
ing selection by the orchestra.
Ten tables were readiness for the
banqueters, and seats at these were
taken at the conclusion of the pro
gram. The supper had been prepared
by the Rebekahs and it was indeed an
appetizing repast. Rev. Samuel John
son asked the blessing, after which
those seated did complete justice to the
tempting viands set before them, and
then toasts were order.
Miss Hazel Scalberg presided as
toastmistress, and she certainly car
ried out her part a manner that left
nothing to be desired. Charles Umbe
hocker was first called upon, and he
voiced a hearty and sincere welcome
to the graduates of the class of 1916.
Robert Berg responded feelingly on
behalf of the class, and then Miss Alta
Reichard gave a toast to the board of
education. Mr. E. L. McMillan, on be
half of the board, responded most ap
propriately, and Harold McVicar, Prof.
R. B. Jacka, and Miss Alma Johnson,
who were also called upon for toasts,
responded entertainingly. Benediction
was next pronounced by Rev. Samuel
Johnson.
A brief business session followed
the banquet and officers for the ensuing
year were elected, as follows: Mrs.
H. M. Avery, president Miss Ida May
Schmidt, vice-president, and Clifton
Cravens, secretary-treasurer.
The banquets of the Alumni associa
tion are ever enjoyable, but this one
was particularly so. It was better at
tended than usual the program was
more than pleasing, and the repast
was fit for a king. The old officers,
and Mr. Cravens in particular, have
been showered with praise for the suc
cess of the affair.
W ith the Farmers and Laborers.
Frank B. Kellogg should have the
support of the farmers of the north
west for his stand against Canadian
reciprocity when that measure was be
fore congress two years ago. He was
one of the influential men in this sec
tion of the country-who devoted time
and energy to combating that proposi
tion, even though it was sponsored by
a Republican president. The Duluth
News-Tribune of Sunday contained an
article describing the life and work of
Mr. Kellogg, written by a man who has
known him for years. The writer
says the reason for his acts may be
traced to his early farm experience.
"His Opposition to the Payne-Aldrich
law," says the writer, "may be ac
counted for on the same ground. He
came from the farm, he had the farm
experience burned into him, and he
shares the farmers' point of view, not
withstanding all his years and labors
in the law." Mr. Kellogg has not put
in the greater part of his time parad
ing himself as a "farmers' friend" or
"laborers' advocate," but every time
that the welfare of farmers or labor
ing men have been at stake Frank
Kellogg has been found on the side of
their interests.Thief River Falls
Times.
From Nine to Nine.
Next Monday is primary election
day. The polls in all towns and vil
lages will open at 9 a. m. and close
at 9 p. m. In cities of all classes the
hours are from 6 a. m. to 9 p. m.
Every citizen should go to the polls
and vote. In many instances the re
sult at the primary is decisivefor
the nominees of the majority party
are generally elected at the Novem
ber election. Voters, do your duty
next Monday, and above all things
disregard racial prejudices. He is not
a good American citizen who will vote
for a candidate simply on the score of
nationality.
ST. CLOUD DOWNED
Princeton Defeats All Stars of the
Granite City by a Count of
4 to 2 Last Sunday.
Game is Played at the Local Fair
Grounds and Numerous Fans
See the Contest.
The St. Cloud All Stars failed to
scintillate last Sunday when they op
posed "Pongo" Olson's fleet-footed
diamond performers, and they were
sent back to the Granite City with
the short end of a 4 to 2 score.
Princeton started a smashing offen
sive at the outset of the game, and
after stowing it away by pushing two
runs over the first and two in the
third, proceeded to see to it that the
opposition did not overtake them.
Nevitt was on the firing line for
Princeton during the first six innings,
and was in sensational form, holding
the opposing willow wielders runless
and hitless. Wilkes went in the
se\ enth and also pitched shut out ball.
A couple of costly slips gave the visi
tors their runs. Heilig of Milaca was
at the receiving station, and made
himself "solid" with iocal fans by his
clever work.
A young man named Chutte had the
misfortune to oppose the local fence
busters the first five innings, and it
is doubtful if his reputation has re
covered from the shock it sustained.
The locals hammered the ball hard and
often, and the St. Cloud outfielders
chased drives until they were "all in."
Chutte steadied down during the
fourth and fifth innings, and pitched
good ball, but Roth relieved him
the sixth and finished the game, get
ting by in good shape. Baldwin was
behind the bat and performed well.
St. Cloud went to bat first and only
three men faced "Chief" Nevitt.
Princeton got right busy in its half,
however, and two men counted.
Wilkes, lead off man. went down on a
fly to the short stop, but Smith fol
lowed him with a drive that just
about took the heart out of the
pitcher. It was a scorcher, and the
custodian of right field had to climb
over the fence to recover it. Mean
while Smith had strolled to third base.
Jesmer also looked one over and
lammed out a clean drive, scoring
Smith. Then Berg added to the woe
of the visitors by straightening out
a fast one for a two-bagger. Jesmer
went to third on Berg's drive and
scored on a passed ball. Mallette con
nected for a fielders' choice, and the
fielder decided to retire Berg at the
plate, which he did. Heilig walked as
did Doane, but Roos retired the side
with a fly to the short stop. In the
second, three "Stars" were put out
in short order, and Princeton was also
blanked its half. The third found
Neratt again invincible, and not one of
the visitors reached first base. This
inning saw two of Princeton's pastim
ers shag their way across the plate,
however. Heilig was first up, and he
caressed the horse-hide with his war
club for a corking single. Doane's
sacrifice advanced him to second. Roos
went cown on a fly to the first base
guardsman^ and Nevitt, who was next,
passed up four wide ones, and went
to first. Wilkes came next and
bang! He hammered out a smoking
one like Smith's and it went through
the fence at almost the same place.
Needless to say,'TIeilig and Nevitt am
bled home. A fly to the short stop
off of Smith's bat sent Princeton back
to the field. From then on "Pongo"
restrained his performers, and Prince
ton failed to count again. St. Cloud
was given its two runs in the seventh,
by the generous Princeton lads, who
waited until two men were down be
fore making the donation. Two er
rors placed a couple of the Granite
City athletes on the paths, and a siz
zling drive scored them. This ended
the scoring, and Princeton wound up
the game in the first half of the ninth
by pulling off a pretty double play.
There was a man on first and one
down, when Captain Mallette stopped
a hot one, handed it to Berg on second,
and Berg whipped it over to Nevitt on
first. Both runners were retired on
the play and the game was over.
NOTES.
Princeton's safe lead in the opening
rounds took some enthusiasm out of
local fans.
Batting practice spruced up the lo
cals considerably in this department,
and it will doubtless be continued.
The battery last Sunday cost the
management about $20, although au
tomobiles w^re donated to convey
Heilig to and from Milaca.
Nevitt was in great form, and was
given stellar support. He had the op
position swinging blindly at the elu
sive sphere, and in only one inning did
more than three men face him.
H. J. Plaas and Harry Bradford did
the arbitrating stunt, and came out
with flying colors. Both did splen
didly.
Braham will be here next Sunday,
and a hummer of a contest is assured.
Neither Princeton nor Braham have
lost a game this season, and both
nines defeated Mora by about the
same score. Last fall at the Cam
bridge fair these nines staged the
prettiest contest of the season, Prince
ton winning by a count of 8 to 7.
The directors and manager of the
Princeton ball team met Monday even
ing, and decided that the finances of
the club would not permit the retain
ing of Nevitt of Anoka on the pitching
staff. Nevitt made good here, and has
the well wishes of all our fans. In the
meantime the old reliable Wilkes, who
is the heaviest hitting and best field
ing pitcher in these parts, will here
after shoulder the burden, and as he
is always right, the fans can look for
ward to him delivering the classy ar
ticle of ball that distinguished his work
last season.
Jacka-Neumann.
Saturday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock
at the home of the bride's parents, Dr.
and Mrs. C. S. Neumann, occurred the
marriage of Mr. Roy Bennett Jacka
and Miss Gertrude May Neumann.
Rev. Samuel Johnson of the Congre
gational church pronounced the words
that made them man and wife, and
the pretty double ring ceremony was
carried out.
The bride was attired in a hand
some gown of white net with blue
embroidery over white silk and wore
a corsage bouquet of pink rosebuds
and lilies cf the valley. Miss Mary
Shockley acted as bridesmaid. Her
gown was of cream net over yellow
satin, and she wore a corsage bouquet
of lavender and pink sweet peas and
yellow roses.
The ceremony was performed in the
living room, which was tastefully dec
orated for the occasion, the color
scheme being pink, white and yellow.
Only near relatives were in attend
ance, and at the conclusion of the
ceremony the party repaired to the
dining room, where a sumptous wed
ding luncheon of four courses was
partaken of.
Mr. and Mrs. Jacka were the recipi
ents of numerous beautiful gifts.
The groom is commercial instructor
at the Princeton high school, and is a
young man of sterling worth. During
his residence here he has earned the
respect and esteem of all our citizens.
The bride is a native of this village,
and is one of Princeton's fairest daugh
ters. Her pleasing ways have made
her beloved by all. A large circle of
friends wish for Mr. and Mrs. Jacka
a future of uninterrupted bliss.
Mr. and Mrs. Jacka left at once for
Milwaukee. Wis., and will later go to
Crystal Falls, Michigan, where their
honeymoon will be spent. They will
return to Princeton next fall in time
for the groom to resume his school
duties, and they will make this vil
lage their home.
Lowell-Penny.
Mr. Claire Lowell of Milaca and
Miss Blanche Penny of Anoka were
united in marriage at the Portland
Avenue Christian church in Minneap
olis by Rev. C. B. Osgood, Saturday
afternoon at four o'clock. The groom
was attended by his brother, Mr. Fos
ter Lowell, while Miss Marie Holland
of Minneapolis acted as bridesmaid.
Immediately after the ceremony the
party repaired to the West hotel
where a wedding dinner was partaken
of.
Mr. and Mrs. Lowell left at once for
Little Falls, and after a visit of a
few days there will make their home
at Milaca, where the groom has a
position as rural mail carrier.
The bride and groom are well and
favorably known in Princetonthe
former being a graduate of the North
western hospital training school for
nurses, and the latter is a graduate of
the Princeton high school. Numerous
friends here wish Mr. and Mrs. Lowell
unbounded happiness in the years to
come. Charged With Liquor Law Violations.
As a result of a raid made last Sat
urday morning on the premises of Wm.
Schmidt in Princeton town, by Sheriff
Harry Shockley, and his deputy Henry
L. Shockley, Schmidt is bound over to
the grand jury on two charges of vio
lation of the liquor laws. Nine sacks
of beer were taken in the raid.
Schmidt was arraigned before Jus
tice Dickey the same afternoon, and
charged with maintaining an unlicens
ed drinking place, and with disposing
VOLUME XL. NO. 26
of intoxicants to a minor. He waived
examination and was bound over to the
grand jury in the sum of $1,000. Bonds
were forthcoming, and he is enjoying
liberty.
Sheriff Shockley informs us that it
takes time to secure the proper evi
dence against violators of the liquor
laws, but that he is determined to curb
the illegal sale of intoxicants in this
vicinity. Other arrests will undoubt
edly be made in the future if violations
continue.
Returns From Chicago.
Attorney S. P. Skahen returned
from Chicago Monday evening, where
he was an interested spectator at the
proceedings of the national republican
convention in that city. Mr. Skahen lis
tened to all the nominating speeches,
and says that in his opinion the speech
of Governor Willis of Ohio, placing the
name of Hon. Theodore E. Burton of
that state before the convention, was
the best oratorical effort of the lot.
It was not a wildly enthusiastic gath
ering, although there were prolonged
demonstrations favor of various of
the candidates. Chief interest cen
tered in the reports of the compromise
committeesnamed by the republican
and progressive conventionsas it
was pretty generally known that un
less a compromise candidate could
be agreed upon, Justice Hughes would
be the nominee of the republicans and
that Theodore Roosevelt would be
named by the progressives.
Pease Bank Changes Hands.
A deal was completed on Tuesday
whereby the State Bank of Pease
changed hands, and the new owners are
the following: J. M. Haven, Big Lake
Austin B. Morse, Waverly C. M. Wall
and J. Toussaint, Ogilvie. Mr. Tous
saint succeeds Mr. D. J. Fouquette as
cashier. During his residence in this
county Mr. Fouquette made numerous
friends all of whom wish him the best
of everything in the future. His
plans are not completed as yet, but
he informs us that he expects to con
tinue in the banking business, but will
be associated with a larger institution.
The Pease bank has done well since
it opened, and the deposits now total
over $53,000. The Union welcomes
the new cashier to Mille Lacs county,
and extends greetings to the other
owners of stock.
Connolly Pleads Guilty.
H. H. Connolly of Bock, mention of
whose arrest on two charges of illeg
ally disposing of intoxicants was made
in our last issue, was taken to St.
Cloud last Friday by Sheriff Harry
Shockley, Clerk of Court King, and
County Attorney Myron, where he en
tered a plea of "guilty" before Judge
Roeser to both charges. Connolly was
sentenced to pay a 'fine of $50 and
costs and serve 30 days in jail in the
first case, and in the second the fine
was $75 and costs, with a 60 day jail
sentence. The costs amounted to $84,
bringing the total fine up to $209.
Judge Roeser suspended the jail sen
tences, but Connolly must appear at
the fall term of district court, and re
port as to his conduct.
Rev. M. Peterson Honored.
Rev. M. Peterson recently was the
recipient of an invitation that was in
deed an honor to him as a pastor and
a man. He has been asked to speak
at the Silver jubilee celebration of
the Mission church at Ellsworth, Wis.,
June 24 to 26 inclusive. Seldom, if
ever, are pastors of a different denom
ination asked to participate in a
church anniversary observance, and
Rev. Peterson will no doubt accept the
invitation the spirit of good will
that it was tendered to him. Dr.
Peterson was at one time a Mission
pastor, and he officiated for a period
of years as pastor of the Ellsworth
church. The invitation to. him to at
tend the Silver jubilee is ample evi
dence of the high regard in which he
is held by his former parishioners.
Princeton Will Not Celebrate.
The committee in charge of the pro
posed Fourth of July celebration at
Princeton have decided to let it go by
default. The gentlemen were unable
to secured the desired attractions, and
as they intended to have a splendid
and patriotic observance of Independ
ence day, or none at all, concluded to
let the project die. Other places in
this vicinity will observe the signifi
cant day fittingly, and Princeton will
doubtless be represented at all of
them.
Unclaimed Letters.
List of letters remaining unclaimed
at the postoffice at Princeton, Minn.,
June 12, 1916:
Willie Beck, Mrs. Albert Burk and
George F. Schurder.
Please call for advertised letters.
M. M. Briggs, Act'g. P. M.
