THE
epub:
BDEPEfDEIW PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAOS PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNIN(J, JUNE 13, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVH., NO. 28
GOV
aSNOR
PREPAREDNESS
PROSPERITY ID
PEACEISSLOGAN
Former Governor (Jlynri of
New York Says Policy of
Administration Just As
American As American
WHERE DEMOCRATS ARE MEETING IN ST. LOUIS RUSSIANS DRIVE THE
AUSTRIANS BACK AND
i ARE NEAR CAPITAL
Flag Itself
(Republican A. P. leased WlreJ
ST. LOUIS, June 14 The demo
cratie national convention at its first
session today heard the keynote of
Americanism and peace, preintredness
and prosperity sounded by former
Governor Glynn of New York, as j
temporary chairman, and with a high i
pitch ,f enthusiasm emphatically r?g-
istered by demonstration after dem- j
nnstration, its approval of President i
Wilson's peaceful conduct ot foreign !
affairs. 1
The convention which had gotten
rr.iicr iv.iy with such perfunctory
demonstrations as mark every na
tional gathering of the kind soon
stirred itself into roaring cheers as
Chairman Glynn cited historic parel
kls to show that other president's,
including republicans, had adjusted
threatening foreign situations withouc
resort to war.
"The policy of the administration,"
he declared, "has been just as Amer
ican is the American flog itself."
He went down the lists of presi
dents recounting their action to
avoid war, the delegates catching the
spirit of his argument and as he re
ferred to each particular president
some delegate would call: "what did
he do.1"
"Me settled the trouble by negotia
tion," was the reply which Glynn in
variably returned and the convention
wuld roar its approval.
Wm. J. Bryan, as a newspaper cor
respondent in the press stand, wept
with emotion an Glynn pictured the
victories of peace, but he laughed
with the crowd when a Texas dele
gate interrupting Glynn leaped to his
hair and cried:
"And don't forget that policy also
Is satisfactory to William Jennings
Brya n."
Aside from a sixteen-minute dem
onstration when Chairman Glynn pre
dicted President Wilson's re-election.
Glynn's speei h. was sprinkled with
demonstrations which he found it dif
ficult to stem so he could go on.
U was plain that the telling points
on the delegates were the recital of
President Wilson's efforts to keep the
country at peace. I
"This policy," he said, "may not
satisfy the fire eater and the swash
buckler. But it doe", satisfy the
mothers of the land at whose hearth
and fireside, no jingoistic war has
placed an empty chair. It does satisfy
the daughters of this land from whom
bluster and brag have sent no loving
brother to the dissolution of the
grave. It does satisfy the fathers of
this land and the sons of this land
v ho will fight for our flag and die
for our flag when reason primes the
rifle: when honor draws the sword
" nnd hVn justice breathes a Messing
on the standard they upheld."
The 'ast of the words were drowned
out in a roar of applause that swept
the Coliseum.
"Repeat it." cried the delegates,
"repeat it."
"All right, be quiet,and 111 repeat
it," responded Glynn and he did to
np'ilause and cheering.
No o'her president since 'the civil
war, Glynn told the convention, had
faced such crucial problems, none had
displayed a grasp of statesmanship
more profound
"Whether the course the country
has pursued during this crucial period
is to he continued and whether the
principles that have been asserted as
our national policy shall be endorsed
or withdrawn." Glvnn told the con
vention was the paramount question
for the voter to decide. "No lesser
Issue must cloud it," spid he "no un
related problems must confuse it."
, With the assertion that no president
niiice the Civil War has had atf crucial
problems to solve: and no president has
displayed a grasp more sure, a states
continued on Page Five)
ft : c- ,
1 7 , ' . ... t . .
v " ?- I : -
f -d r x. i ;..r --t
Financial Problem, Not U. S. Troops, Cause Of Unrest In Mexico
DEFAGTOHONEY 1
Pll SI 10 :
BE COLLAPSING
GERMAN MERCHANTMEN
ARE PROBABLY SUNK
XVKOP1NG, Sweden, (via Lon-
j dual June 14. Thirteen German I
I merchantmen, which were coming j
from the north convoyed by an j
j auxiliary cruiser and some torpedo i
j boats and armed trawlers, were !
j attacked early this morning bya j
j squadron of ' Russian destroyers, j
torpedo boats and submarines near j
i the Swedish coast. The German
j convoy was dispersed and the '
merchantmen fled toward the j
, coast. It is reported that some of
i the vesseies were sunk.
"sSsIrtT
: RULES IS If
TO BE C1SEI
An Advance of About Twen
ty Miles By Russians
Who Have (Jzernowitz
As Objective Noted In
Official Reports
In Default of Substantial
Foreign Aid Uneasiness
Among Mexican People
Grows Owing to the'
Money Stringency
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 14. With a'l
government departments closed in ol
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
An advance ofabout twenty miles
by the Russians who have Czerno-
witz as their objective is chronicled i
i in the latest Russian official com
munications. Having previously j
J crossed the Dniester river and taken!
Horodenka and Zale Szczyky, the
Russians have now driven their men i servance of Flag Day, there were no
to the left bank of the river Pruth ; developments here today in the Mex
j and captured the town of Sniatyn, ican situation. A few telegrams
J which lies only Z'l miles north of Bu- j reached the war -and state depart-
kowina capital. ments but officials said they con-
Now here on the front from the tained nothing of importance. A mes-
l'riiet river in Russia and through 'sage to the navy departments from
I Galicia. to Bukowina has there been j the west coast said a large number
any cessation in the great Russian, of Carranza troops, were being trans
' offensive. Along the entire line, ac- ferred by water from Guaymas to
cording to the Prussian war office, the Mazatlan. The reason for the movt-
Austrians and Germans are being 'ment was not reported.
driven hack and the Russians still ! Whatever is to be the outcome of
are taking thousands of prisoners and the involved situation
machine guns
beyond the
and ' border, officials here are certain that
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 14. Charles U.
llilles' successor as chairman of the
republican national committee will be line in Prussia, to the north of Bar
selected, in all likelihood, at a confer- junovichi. the Russians evidently have
; ence here next ilondav between anticipated the proposed German of-
S Charles K. Hughes, the presidential ; f""ive and taken
i ,,rr,W W Mrr.iv frane of Massa.- i "eir own . hands.
chusetts, chairman of the national
; nub-committee on organization and as
manv of the other seven members of
capturing guns,
war supplies.
Ill the eleven days drive l,T)s of-'Mexican soil is only orue element, and
ficers and IJO.ouii men and 13 guns j perhaps a lesser one, among thos3
and BO machine guns have been ! contributing to unrest in Mexico. Thei
captured. real key to the situation, many of
On the lower end of the German (those in close touch with it believe, is
the apparent collapse of the de facto
government's effort to adjust the fi
nancial problem, in default of sub
file initiative into stantial foreign aid.
Here after violent I Consular reports have indicated
artillery preparation they seven times growing uneasiness among the Mex
essayed to storm the German lines. ican people owing to" the money strin
Bc rlin says, however, that all their .' gency. The country has been flooded
efforts failed and they were repulsed j with issue after issue of worthless
with heavy losses. 'paper, while its diminished stock of
The fighting around Verdun has ! precious metal has been squeezed
dw indled to intermittent bombard-j again and again to find the means
ments, there having been no infantry of paving for war material and other
the sub-committee as can be present.
Arrangements for the conference j
was made late today by .Mr. Crane, it J
also was announced that the manager j
of the Hughes campaign probaoly will.jUa(:k anywi,ere on this front since ! governmental supplies which could be
lie selected then and that the personnel jTuesdav, when French positions west procured only on a flat cash basis.
and south of Thiaumont farm were) It is evident that many officials
captured by the Germans and 733 j believe the collapse of the de facto
The Ca- government is more to be expected
Belgium j than any overt act by that govern-
if the executive committee will be dis
cussed. The sub-committee is em
powered to name the chairman 'and Frenchmen made prisoners.
nadians around Zillebeke in
St. Louis Coliseum, Martin H. Glynn and Woodrow Wilson.
WILSON SfiVS EO ffEO B01
CIT1ZEKS OF U. a. TRY1N G TO
LEW POLITIC! BLHi
-
-r-
Republican A, P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 14. A charge
that foreign born citizens of the United 1
States are try ing to levy political J
blackmail and to undermine the influ
ence of the national government was
made by President Wilson in a Flag
from a minority, a very small minority,
but a very active and subtle minority.
"it works underground but it also
shows its ugly head w here we can see
it; and there are those at this moment
who are trying to levy a species of
political blackmail, saying 'do what we
Day speech here today. Mis assertion wish in the interest of foreign senti
sounded the keynote of one of the ! ment or we will wreak our vengeance
foremost issues on which he will go be- at the polls.' That is the sort of thing
fore the country for re-election, and (against which the American nation
touched upon a platform declaration j will turn with a mighty triumph of
which will be submitted by the ad- J sentiment which will teach these gen
ministration to the St. Louis conven- tlernen once for all that loyally to this
Hon. flag is the first test of tolerance in the
The president spoke before a crowd j United States."
of thousands gathered at the foot of j The president s words were taken as
the Washington monument, after he ' an open challenge to foreign born
had reviewed for five hours a great Americans who, he had learned from
preparedness parade at the head of ) foreign latiguage newspapers and other
which he himself had marched down j sources, are opposing him for re-elec-Pennsylvania
avenue. He declared j tion. Officials close to him said he was
that not since the Cjvil War had it been j outlining his starid on what he had de
tested as It now is being tested j termined to make a predominant issue
RAILWAY WATCHMAN
KILLS YOUNG GRADUATE
' AI.BPgi'KltyCE, N. M., .June j j
! 1!. News reached here today of I -t
the killing of A. G. Strickland',
l'.i years old. graduate of an Iowa i .
! college, June 12, by R. G. Seel .v. j
j a railway watchman at Vaughn, j j
New Mc'xico. Scely ordered i
I Strickland to leave the right-of-
i way. A quarrel roiioweu. heeiy j
got liis revolver, saying he did so !
; because of Strickland's physical I
superiority. Seely says he did not
! intend to shoot, alleging he did I
j not know, the gun was cocked.
The bullet entered the boy's side, j
causing death in a few minutes.
iialRFT
the executive committee.
No announcement concerning the
nominees' choice for national chair
man or campaign manager, has been
made and indications are that he will
continue to consider names of available
candidates until his meeting with the
sub-committee. In pursuance of his i
i..tii- t? rofraininir frntn HisCMKMlOn (if
i inno T,-iV, votti i lui n rr "l,'lont lntT"inTi
political affairs. Mr. Hughes declined. ' ' " .
west of Schio. On the other sectors
of the line the Austiians are bom
barding the Italian positions. The
German auxiliary cruiser Herzmann
i has been attacked and sunk in the
.are holding to the 1,300 yards of
! ground recaptured from the Germans
I Tuesday, although the Germans are
! heavily shelling them. No infantry
'attacks have been carried out by the
Teutons.
The latest advices from the Austro-
Italian war theater credit the Ital-
to sav tonight whether he had made a I
tentative choice. Mr. Crane also de-1
cliued to comment on the situation, j
In the meantime Mr. Hughes will
continue his informal conferences here
with party leaders and his reception
of old and new friends and supporters.
The longest conference he held today
Wickersham, at
President Taft's
Baltic, southeast of
ment against the United States. Out
of such a collapse, it is feared there
might come' an ill-advised attempt to
eject the American troops sent to
pursue V ilia anu nis uanaus.
With most of the population utterly
ignorant of true conditions, it -was
pointed out that agitators might have
an easy task in spreading the im
pression that Americans are respon
sible for Mexico's economic and oth
er troubles. Such resident Americans
as they see live in comfort and plen
ty compared to the great mass of
the native population. That in it-
Stockholm, by i self always has been a cause of jeal-
was wfth George W
j torney general in
(Continued on Page Fivel
four Russian torpedo boat destroyers, ousy toward Americans,
according to Berlin. Reports from Army officials have no fear of the
Sweden and Denmark concerning the safety of General Pershing's men, no
fight, say that it was between Rus- matter what happens. The movement
J
(Continued on Page Three).
(Continued on Page Three!
Sonora
In
Rifle Women to Enlist
Case Intervention Comes
whether the stars and stripes stood
for any one united purpose.
"There is disloyalty active in the
United States and it must be abso
lutely crushed," declared the president,
speaking emphatically. "It proceeds
Dougherty Has Plank for :
Preserving Our Integrity
(Special to The Republican)
ST. LOUIS, June 14. M. J. Dough
frrly of Mesa, Ariz., today offered the
following resolution to the committee
on platform and resolutions, of which
'lie is a member:
"We declare it to be the inviolate
right of all nations to enjoy the r.'
Hect of sovereignity: and, except
where the observance of such integrity
becomes a shield to aggressive excur
sions against other nations to the re-
Bpeet of territorial integrity, as well as
the unimpaired right to adjust inter
nal questions amenuhle always. in such
adjustments to the law of nations and
answerable morally and pecuniarily for
the persons and property of the citi
zens of other nations rigid fully within
its boundaries."
William J. Bryan was given an ova
tion in the convention todav. The
westerners were specially vociferous j
for him. Arizona's delegation is fav
orably placed in the convention hull.
The platform committee tonight
heard President Samuel .F. Gompers
of, the American Federation of Labor,
the suffragettes and the League for
the Enforcement of Peace. Pomerene.
Stone and Walsh are active in the con
vention. f
The Arizona, Colorado and New Mex
ico members of the jiew resolutions
are:
Arizona: Fred T. Colter: Colorado,
John T. -Bennett; New Mexico, A. A.
Jones.
In Texas William Poindexter's place
' is being contested by Thomas Love.
in his campaign.
While the democratic convention was
being opened at St. Louis, Mr. Wilson
devoted the entire day to the Flag Day
and preparedness demonstration. Car
rying a larfte American flag he walked
from the capitol to the White House
at the head of more than tid.oOO march
ers, including many high government
officials,- employes of all the govern
ment deparlments and of the Capitol's
business houses, companies of cadets,
national guardsmen, union and con
federate veterans and members of com
mercial and social organizations.
The parade started from the capitol
m pi mi
I I I W !! Hill WIS
IERIC1SM!
I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOCGLAS, June 14 Mrs. Rosaura
V. de Tovar of Agua Prieta, president
of the Sonora Women's Rifle associa
tion, received a letter from Governor
Adolfo de la Huerta of Sonora today,
accepting her proffer of the services
of ti e 2im0 members of the association
as soldiers in case of American inter
vention. The governor thanked her
i for the soirit of patriotism exhibited
by the offer, which had been aceom-
panied by a list of the names of the
members of the association. He said
tat in event of invasion, he Wt cer-
TRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS, June 14. President Wil
son's plank on Americanism for the
democratic platform, practically charg
ing a conspiracy by some foreign born
iti-ii t,. influence fYireisrn and in-
terr.al affairs for the benefit of other 1 hR v.omn of hor.ora would give
governments and condemning any or- ! l ood account ,of themselves, as they
motion countenancing such move-; 'tad when they-aided their husbands
m,.n. .., well as anv nolitlcal oartv. i r'd fathers in driving out the French
which hv failure to repudiate such a ! t Guaymas and in repelling attempted
oy Americans in times
been appointed for these by General
Gomez.
Intense excitement prevails on the
Mexican side of the border, in sym
pathy with the Chihuahua demonstra
tions, and arrivals report that condi
tions are becoming almost unbearable
in sonic parts of the state. How
ever, there have been no actual demon
strations against American occupation
as yet.
Consul Ielevier said today, in speak
ing of the organization of rifle clubs
and" volunteer forces, that practically
every lesinenr of the state has a rifle
as a result of the almost continuous
warfare, and most of the people are
fair shots.
Americans arriving from Sonora to
day report that there have been many
desertions , from the concentration
camps at Fronteras. twenty-nine miles
south, and Cuchuta, thirty-five miles
south, on the Nacozari j-allroad, be
cause of the monetary situation which
has developed since the new Carranza
currency was put in circulation. The,
closing cf pcores of stores in the sec
tion south of here is reported, also, as
a. result of merchants being forced to
accetit the money.
Officers and men in the concentra
tion camps ate said to be destroying
the currency as rapidly as it is dis
bursed to them.
fili'.iusterers
pnst.
General Arnulfo Gomez, command
ing northern Sonora during the ab
sence of (ieneral P. Elias Cailes, the
commander in chief of the Sonora
laimy, has nppointed instructors who
conspiracy, receives the benefit of it
at the ballot box, was telegraphed here
tonight from Washington and placed
before democratic leaders.
As the resolutions committee which
will draft the platform and pass on the
plank was engaged at a late hour to
night in continuing public hearings of ; will teach the women to shoot, in the
Score of Yaqui Bands Ate
Operating On Sonora River
persons urging various declarations in
grounds, and as its head passed the j the platform, the plank which has the
White House, the president dropped I president's approval and which prom-
out And took his place in the reviewing
stand. Tfe was joined there by Secre
I taries McAdoo, Redfield, Lane, and
j Wilson. PoKlmtiRtpr-peneral Burleson
J and Attorney General Gregory, who
had marched at (he head of employes ';
of t their departments, and by Secre-
tary Lansing. As soon as the last I
ises to be the sensation of the demo
cratic platform was not formally con
sidered and probably will not be until
tomorrow when the sub-committee
which makes the final draft of the plat
form has .its meeting.
score or more towns in which branches
of the association have been organized.
A number of prominent Mexican res
idents of Douglas visited (ieneral
Gomez yesterday, Consul Ives G. Lele- i accordin to Americans arriving to-
Repubiican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, June 14. At least a
score of bands of Yaqui Indians, num
bering from ten to fifty members, are.
operating along the Sonora river, about
une hundred miles south of the border,
vier said, and expressed the wish to
organize a rifle club. General Gomel 1
refused t allow it unless they
charged (heir residence to Agua
marchers passed the stand, five hours
later, the president went to the monu-
all the leaders agreed that practically
! everything depended upon the phrase
I olocv which finallv found its wav into
ment grounds where his address ' tne l)!atiorm and they did not propose
formed the principal part of an hour's , to riak any ieaks which might prove
patriotic exercises. I embarrasing later. The convention's
Before he " began, speaking cannon , boundless' enthusiasm today whenever
There was very guarded talk about ; Prieta. He called their attention to
the president's plank tonight because i the likelihood of stirring up trouble if
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
their activities became known in Doug
l.". As V-.f delegation refused to
ehnge their place of residence, the
pf tition was definitely refused. The
mRn of Nacozari, Cananea and other
Sonora towns ars also organizing
rifle clubs, according to the statement
of Consul Lelevier. Instructors have
day. Several bands have crossed the
river and are now in the hills to the
west of Moctezuma, further north than J
they have come in force at any time
in the past.
Within the last two weeks one band
of about forty members, led by a rene
ide Mexican known as "Huero" have
murdered eight Mexican woodcutters
and miners in the vicinity of Huepac,
un the Sonora river. Four of the men
were slowly hacked to pieces with
knives and bayonets, others were bur
ied. In no case was death inflicted im-
mediately without torture. One pris
oner, who escaped, brought word to
Huepac that the Mexican Huero di
rected the killing and seemed to take
fiendish delight in the sufferings of
his victims.
The little towns in the southern part
of the Moctezuma .and Arizpe districts
are begging for soldiers, but thus far
little attention has been paid to them
and the concentration of troops toward
the north continues, the Americans say.
People from the southern part of the
state are pouring into the larger 4towns
in the two districts afoot or in any kind
of vehicle they could command, aban
doning everything except the few ar
ticles they could carry away. Renewed
reports of Yaqui activity in the north
ern part of the Alamos district today
indicate the failure of the campaign of
the de facto troops in southern Sonora,
