ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
city
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
tmnTT-SKVENTH HSAJR.
oi cu . o.
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Thursday, June 15, 1916.
Trail
T
MOST SEVERE IN
DENUNCIATION
OF HYPHENATES
Resents Attacks in Foreign
Language Newspapers; Ba
sis of Plank in Democratic
National Platform,
CHARGES POLITICAL
BLACKMAIL IS MEANT
Pays Splendid Tribute to Flag
as Emblem of Unity . and
Purpose of United States
Government.
Daily by Carrier or Mall, 60r
Month. King! Coptaa, U
THE WEATHER
THE WEATUEIl JORKCA8T.
Denver. Colo.. June 14. New Mex
ico: Thursday and Friday fair except
probably local showers and cooler ex
treme east portion Thursday.
LOCAL WKATIIEU REPORT.
for twenty-four hours, ending at
8 p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature. f2 degrees;
minimum, 4 4 degree; range. 4s de
grees; temperature at t p. m., 83 de
grees; southwest wind; clear.
CITY BANK CLEARING.
J68.116.S6.
QUIET PREVAILS
IN MEXICO SO
PAR 01
IN WASHINGTON
sentiment bust been poured out in
honor of tho flag of the United States.
Sometimes we have been charged with
being' a sentimental people, fond of
expressing in general rhetorical
phrases principles not sufficiently de
fined In action and I dare nay there
have been times of happy and careless
ease in this country when all that It
has been necessary to do for the hon- j
vr vi mo iiuk wtui 10 pour our senti
ments into poetic expressions, into the
words that for the time being satis
fied our hearts. But this is not a day
of sentiment. Sentiment Is a propul
sive power, but it does not propel In
ithn wav fhut. in Rei-vlecahlA In the na.
tltlnn Hnl.tua It ha., a rlj.ftnlt.i nliriintA
-. t-' ,1. IIUTb ft JIM. Jfvrn
before It. This is not merely a day
of sentiment. It Is a day of purposes.
Symbol of Cnily.
"It Is an eloquent eymbol of tho
unity of our history that upon this
monument which commemorates the
man who did. most to establish the
American union, we should havo
Washington, June 17. A charge! hoisted those stars that have so mul-
Flag Day Fails to Bring Forth
Any Developments in Situa
tion South of Border; Troop
Movement Is Reported,
DE FACTO GOVERNMENT
CAN NOT RAISE MONEY
cials; Overt Act Against U,
S, Not Believed Likely,
Washing-ton, June
i wissi
14. With all
MEXICAN HEN
OFFER TO FIGHT
UNITED STATES
IN CASE OP WAR
Collapse of Carranza Regime Americans Arriving in Douglas
Is Expected by Many Offi
that foreign-born citizens of the Unit- ttplled since his time, associated with 'government departments closed in ob
ed states are trying o levy poimca., - UikY is du re In ourDuroose s,,rvanPe of Fla da'- Uwr wre no
blackmail and to undertone the in- 0 Xod'in'the .developments here today in the Mexl-
fluence of the national government at.rvl(,0 of a ation wnofle hjstory mi8 icun .lluutlon, A few telegrams
was made by President Wilson In a been full of Inspiration because of his Reached the war nnd stale depart-T-'lag
day speech here today. Ills as- j example. ISut Washington was one'ments hut officials said they con
sertion sounded the keynote of one of of the least sentimental men that ' ,.,
the foremost issues on which he will ' America has ever produced. The 1 n ' y f '0' " u fr;' '
rv 'or re-election. t lof ! ZZ TZ'I
and touched upon a platform declara- Bcnti,m.,lt that jliU1 not KOt definite Carranza, troops were being transi
tion which will be submitted by the1 purpose in it. His letters run along 'erred by water from Guaymas to Mu
administratlon to the St. Louis con-'the line of action, not merely along ,'za-tlan. The reason for the movement
vention ! the lines of mere sentiment, and the ws not reported.
Th ,',rr.fli.1,.nt tw.u lu.forA u ,-rnu l ' '"out Inspiring times that this nation) Whatever Is to be the outcome of
Tho president spoke before a crowd . ' ,,..,! the Involved situation beyond tho hor-
of thousands gathered at the foot of nas ever seen nave oem tno umes offi,....H ,lllt ,0il
the Washington monument after he wnen sentiment had to be translated (aer- 01111 "llB !irc certain that Un prcs
tne wasnington monument, aner ne . ation itnce of American troops on Mexican
had rev ewed for five hours a great lnt0 aCU"' isoil l6 only one element, and perhaps
preparedness parade at the head of, Ma Bo Tested Aaln. ! a. lesser one, am.M.g those cMtrlbu-
whlch he himself had marched down ( "Apparently this nation Is aguin tinK t0 ulm.Bt i Mexico The real kev
l'ennsyivania avenue. Ke aeciarea ;ancl again and again. to be 'to tho situation, many of thoso In close P"- . .
that not since the civil, war had it tested, and always tested in the.t0licn witn )t believe is the appurent Ueneral Arnulfo clonic?,, eommand
l.een tested as It now Is being tested same way. The. last supreme test '-nli-iime f ti,. ,ir. r',.t o..i-nmoinv i l"S northern Sonora. during the ab-
sulng a bund of 600 outlaws concen
trated in the Ulo Florido district.
Reports were also received today
that the former Vllllsta general, Jose
Maria, Itios, who ha.i been operating
in southern Chihuahua, has sent u
messenger to Col. Carlos. Curranza,
commanding at CiiHihulriachlc. asking
amnesty for himself and a small com
mand. Colonel t'nirania also re
ported the appeal of Candldo Chacon,
brother of the notorious bandit, J.
Charon, killed recently near t'arral,
and his band, unking amnesty.
Official announcement was made at
military head'iuartt rs here today of
the capture of l,ui de in Kou at
Monterey. General Vigil do Armas
.asked instructions for disposition of
tne bandit, who was tho originator of
Plan of San Iiego and who recently
Wnrt rplH!lt.rl tn liu tnurlilnir minn l...
Governor of Sonora Receives. T,x1' bottS-
MINISTER SICK, BUT
NOT TO SICK TO TIE
TWO MARRIAGE KNOTS
raciAi eiarATCM to mohninu jouknal)
Santa Ke, June 14. I.'nusual were
the circuiiiMtaiKes under which Wil
liam l'ond, an Albuquerque business
man, was married this evening to Miss
Ada Elizabeth Bennett, of Boulder,
Colo. The bride urrlved on the even
ing Banta ! train at nu hour to late
T I' r Ai . 'x' t iu j trial tile courthouse oflices were clos-
lell Ot AtrOCltieS Committed ! Assistant County Clerk Vicente
Alarid, after considerable pleading,
went to the courthouse and Uisued the
license. '
The collide had engaged Kev. U. Z.
MeCullough, of the First Presbyter
Ian church, to perform the ceremony,
but when they arrived at the manse
they found him sick in bed. as he will
saura V. de Tovar. president or the ' I"1 operated upon tomorrow morning
. ' , . for appendicitis. Nevertheless he
Sonora Women s Hlfle association, re- performed the ceremonv. the rm be
reived a letter from Governor Adolfo iI)fr used. It was the second marriage
de la Huerta of Sonora today, accept- celebrated by him today in bed, the
!ng her proffer of the services of the "'ft t'ewg tiiat ol Charles u. unfug
Tender of Services of Mem
bers of Rifle Association
and Expresses Thanks.
YAQUI INDIANS ARE
GIVING MUCH TROUBLE
by Savages; Prisoners Cap
tured Are Tortured,
tBV MOHNINA JOURNAL PtCIAL LtAIO WIKBI
Douglus, Ariz., Juno 14. Mm. Ito
BRYAN WEEPS AS GL1
MOTE
III WHICH PRESIDENT'S
POLICIESARE PRAISED
BIG CONVENTION CROWD GOES
WILD WITH ENTHUSIASM OVER
ADDRESS MADE BY CHAIRMAN
"We Have Entered This Hall as Democrats; Let Us Delib
erate as Americans," Is Admonition of Former New York
Governor in Opening Proceedings; Vociferous Applause
Interrupts Speaker Frequently and Appeal Is Made to
Delegates to Remain Quiet and Allow Program to Be
Carried Out; Suffragists Enthusiastic Over Prospect of
Obtaining Platform Declaration Favorable to Votes for
Women.
2,000 members of the association as lo.cu' un(,',r,t,ullet?.MI,,,,. ,vy ,"'n?
In case of American Inter-1 on ,'he afternoon train. The couple j
soldiers
vention. The governor thanked her ; will make Iheir home in . Santa Ke
for the spirit of her patriotism ex
hibited by the offer which had been
accompanied by a list of the names
of the members of the association, lie
said that In rvent of invasion he felt!
certain the women of Hunora would
give a good account of themselves as.
they had when they aided their fath ¬
ers In driving out the French at
Giifiymas and in repelling attempted'
filibusterers by Americans in times I
uholhtr tho tf4r nrt HtrlneK Kloo.l ; h ..." ,v, u ..u b..tw ...7i s
. ' ..n. iiwuuii titui tinvuh'i icoi ' piioi't irt adumt tno financial nroh-
fi.r anv one united Dlirno.se. ,.f .1,0 lii v bw h, ,1..,.,. 10 uujum uminu u proo
for any one united purpose.
Most Crush Disloyalty.
"There is disloyalty active in the sues of life were at issue in that strug
United States and It must be abso- gle. You know how two great sec
lutely crushed," declared the presi-' tions of this union seemed to be mov
TOU KnOW now deep M1 .Ipf.-inlt f mllmli.ntl.,1 fnit-lui,
that cut. You know what exigent is- lui.i
j Worthless lnrK'r ClVculatPil.
I Consular reports have Indicated
KruvviiiK uneasiness among me niexi-
denti speaking emphatically. "It pro- ing in opposite directions and for a lottn pr0r,e owing to the money strin
senee of Gen. I. Kllas I'alles, the com
mander-ln-rhief of the Sonora army,
has appointed instructors who will
teach the women to shoot, in the score
or more towns r which branches of
the organization have been organized.
Kcfiixe to 4liange ItcMdeiioe.
A number of prominent Mexican
residents of Pouglas visited General
Gamea yesterday. Consul Ives (). Irf-lo-vier
said. and. ex'irpased the wish to.
J organize a rifle cluK General Gomex
refused to allow it unless they chang-
U UAL 1 1 LTIJIIIII
ill iifPi r 1 i.iiiiiii
liUuiiLLL UUIIUUL
nnmEi ni unrn mi !
ii r. aini i
u -.11 r u .h 1 1 hi
nunui 1 lmulu un
MM! I M. mm i I M I n M
HULL UP MM
i
i
1
eeeits from a minority, a very small ong nine 11 watt quesuomune wneui- cenrv. The cotintrv has been flooded
minority, but a very active and subtle er that flag represented any one unit- witn jBOl, uft(.r 1(MUH of worthless
minority. jed purpose in America. And you plll)Cri whU, ulmirliKhej Ktock of
It works underground but It. also know how deep that struggle cut into , precious metal has beer1 srwecd
riljowa it iigl;.- head where me see Hie sonuments' of this people, and ng.-itn and again to find the means of
a: ana mere are nose,al ui.s nioio.-.., ,, We 1 a wnu.e 6u uun ; puyn f(,r War ImlU.rial Mn(j (ltner - ' V. I ' " . Vcua l'liet' lie
who are tryinsr to levy a species o following that grea struggle when nvernmental supplies which could be '? "'J 1 t,f Z 1 ke ihood
,iSli-.ul til.irbrY.uil nui'inir '.l.. n'hltl mnn'u hi.urtct ii-nr I. tni nn( urirw ..lull... . . . . ... ItailCO inClT HllelUlOll lO llie I! Kt I IHIOtl
....... ..... -.procureu only on a rial casn hasis. i trrHnir .... tvnnliin ir theii-
n .u?lh In the IntereHl nt toielirn momnrioa hurt a wol! usi m:i tetl and 1 ,. .. . ... .... r Stirling lip tiounie II tneir
, .. .. . .. ........ , , lc ,a cviuem tnai many ornciais pe
neuiiniiil. or we wn uiv uui v.m- jiuyv il set iiit-u ji il ti 1 u l nati unic;
ge.'iiico ut the polls.' That Is the in the hearts of the. people, of Ainer-
..... t ... .....r.. ........... any overt act by that gov
n ..utum Wi.i iu.n itluo and tiray I niteu. against the United States. Out of
.T,,,Inrn.nTm.i 7orC, llihLW "A"' you know how that ended. ; such a collapse, however, it Is feared
ihese gentlrinen once for all that loy-, , .(,.. r 1. h,.rn mi.-hi , iii.,i.. ....
For
(By Morning Journal Soecia) Leased Wire.)
SI. Louis, June 14. The democratic
national convention at Its first session
(today heard the keynote of American
jUm and peace, preparedness and pros
perity, sounded by former Governor
Glynn of New York, as temporary
chairman, and with a high pitch ot
eiilliUMiasni.euiphalically registered by
demonstration ufter demonstration, its
approval of President Wilson's peace
ful conduct of foreign affairs.
The convention which had gotten
uinler way with such perfunctory
demonstrations as mark every na
tional gathering of the kind soon
stirred Itself into roaring cheers as
Chairman Glynn filed historic pural-
lleis to show IhMt other presidents, lu-
ludmg
actlvi-
i'rvnti!tH,Minu ai,,iu,l
Eighth Consecutive Year lh.n'at'llinf fon;1n i'un without
New Mexico Military lnsti-1 "Tho '"'"'-y ot ,h administration."
, . r, , , . . lie declared, "has been Just as Arneri-
tute Designated as One of;,an h" American nag itsou.-
1 j. T 1 .. i He went down the lists of presi-
.. , Ueadlflg ten IH U. O. ,dent, rerountlng their act Ion ion Void
war, the delegate cntchin the spirit
" 11 1 ,m I of his argument and as he referred to
whuoi. cohmipoiioi.ci n hoimni jouiiiui each particular president some dele
Uoswcdl. X, M.. June 14. For tho woul'I call: "What did he do?"
eighth consecutive vear the New Mex- ' l'ttled the trouble by negotla
illovetho folapseof thed kni?'n !' "".""T.h'w " lniiUtut " been desig-i """, the reply which Glynn In-
. ernment to be exoected than i tho l''l-8t'-'' r! "" nated by the I'nited States war depart- jvariably returned and the convention
V , to bo expwttd tnan , ,,uu e 0f residence thoir petition was rnent as one of the first ten milllarv would roar ts npprova .
,any overt act by that government .lei'lnltelv refiiHed . . . . . t .1 " ,l " ml"l"ry ,, . ' ' ,
and
j has turned out a. proof of the validity j tempt to eject the Anicrican troops
(lly to this flag
.... :.. .1.- r.ltnJ
eiaucu III tue lum-u '. , , ,, ,,.. ., ,li iuun tn luirmn Vlllo ,..,,1 1,1 l..,..,ll.
The nnwlilent o wnriU were taken i"1 uul - , ,..,. ,,,o ,.ui,.n.c.
a n oTcn , ?lllegc tc foreign-born visions of sentiment which cut us! With most of the population utterly
Ainlrtr-uw Vw. hV had le rned from a"''dtr at the time of the civil war? ! ignorant of true conditions, it was
foreign langua"-e newspapers and 'ou not SP,! hlut' ad Hie ' Pointed out that sgitator might have
..n..'..r i,im fnr gray mingled this morning in the pro-; an easy task in 'spreading the impres-
re.eleeiinii Offieiils close to him cession? Did you not eee the sons of sion that Americans are restionsible
definitely refused.
rrl.A t N., ........ mI ,. ......
: u " I : 'niir ounlry. This information wuh
I lift ciunn, uaui imi iu i in; 'i II un,, ,. I , , , . .,
Izlng
schools In point i f efficiency in tho
W.
Itrjan Is )eroinf.
AVUllam J. liryan, as a newspaper
correspondent in tho prers Bland, Wept
W 1.. .. H. ..i.l. . . ..
statement of Consul Jjclevicr. In- " . V,' . ""- """'"" nn pniuieii me
structors have been appointed fur , ' ' V, ')UJU,i,ru Meuain. j dories of peace, but he laughed with
these bv fieneril Gomei 1 "ot """"Peeled is none the the crowd when u Texas delegate, in-
Jntense excitement prevail on tho'11'" Kratifylng to the faculty, students .terruptlng Glynn, leaped to his chair
Mexican side of the border in sym
and friends of the school as well as to and cried:
pathy with tho Chihuahua deinonstra- I'jj1 citizens who have a pride in New "And don't forget that policy also
tions, nnd arrivals report, that condi-
said he was outlining his stand on
a subsequent generation walking to- i for Mexico's economic and other tions are In coming almost unbearable j
William Jennings
...v... i. u..,i ,i.,i..j m.ii. gclhcr in happy comradeship? Was troubles.
iirlomln:,nt isue In his eaniDuhni. ithere any contradiction of feeling or ,they see
I'lvsident Curries l'lag.
W'liile the democratic
was being ooened at St. Iouis Mr
Such resident Americans as In some parts of tho state.
live in comfort and plenty
division of sentiment evident, there for compared to the great mass of the
a ,v,ntv,,int Vr.thhiir nntu un flet.li na native nOntl la I tm . Thnl In itu,.lf ul.
Convention ,,i,,il ..-., ..n,l via ull tlm u-.mnHH nf . WaVtt lias hepn H il)u i.f li.il Inn.ve ti-.-
that war havo been healed. Not only ward Americans.
How ever.
yv.lsou devoted the entire day to the passion of that war
Hag day and preparedness deinonstra- gefms bttVC ,.0,llrlbu,ed lo the! Al
tiun. ( arrying a large American flag st th of nationa, feeling which jsafei
No Fear for Troos.
, ., . .. ., .l.l , ,1.. PtieilKUI Ul IICTtlVI,.., T. "IV .. , w.. J v. v......... 1 ... CI, II, C .1111. IJU
lie walked lrom the capltol to the. f ,. ,.,... ,.,, ,,,, mntiui. nhm hunrmn. ni, o
1IM.1... it........ . .1, ,.t mnn ll lliwira ua ..iir "J ..v.. .... .. . ii.i
....ne , .. j "As vet again the test is applied, lor Uurranza troops south from So-
i II tl (I iJU.UWU IllitU lltl r, iiiijiHMiiift
many hiRh government ornciais, tm-
my fellow countrymen, a new ort of nora ttate, reported to the navy de-
ji! u.. .. r I:..,- iww K.in.r . 'nnrfmrnt tarvuu In .lini .iU,,
Woyes of all the uKy"t: Itmon, us. You know that we are f only point at which danger to the
iiieiiiw nun 1.11. lllf. mynuio i.uni.i. ..o , . ... U:.. ....... ........ Atmirwmn I..... 1
i,.i,t..,.. ,....i,. ..f ,i.,i- nntlnn-it aeriveu in our 'nizieutiiui nuiu vvrij .."...ivnu "i'" '" reu ay
giiurdsineu. union and confederate!
(Continue on fitaa tut.)
i i
nininnni w nnrnn
M K S I MHrSS
I llllllltlliLI I LUU
I TUP AIIQTRIAMQ
I ii l nuui mniiu
I
Vftfmnu anil mimthnru iif r4'll7l 111 erelal
''iu pvv ku uiruiiiiakii'i(,l
The parade started from the capl
tol grounds and as its head passed the
White House the president dropped
out and took his place in the review
ing stand. He was joined there by
Secretaries McAdoo. Itedfield. Uane
and Wilson. PoRtmaster General'
Burleson atwl Attorney General Greg
ory, who had marched at the head of j
employes of their departments, ana
by Secretary Iinsing. As soon as the
last marchers hhrhciI the stand, five
hours later, the president went to the
monument grounds where his address!
formed the principal part of an hour's!
Tllltl'totln nv...l..n I
fu5T mm.renlone! Capital of Bukowina Is Now
Forces
H MntlKflll'Iril'V t,i
The first year that the ltobwell liirvan."
school was placed oil the "distill-! Aside from a flxteen-mliuite demon.
ih..r.4 h.m imcn nn urtiiul denmnntr.q- feuiMieu nhi .s in mull, wnen uov- Miration wnen Chairman G vnn t.re-
tions again American occupation as er""r George Curry was in the execu- dieted President Wilson's re-election,
yet. ;tlve chair at Santa Ke, and the mes- Glynn's speech was sprinkled with
Kntlre Population Armed. !B;,ge received by Governor Curry that demonstrations which he found dlftt-
Cbnsul Iylevter said today. In -vour rt"n the war department giving cult to stem so he could go on. It
speaking of the organization of rifle the news uas received with Cue tjreat-I was plain that the telling points on
Army officials have no fear for the (clubs and volunteer forces, that prne- c satisfaction and pride by the the delegates were tho recital of l'rcsi-
ty of General Pershing's men, nol,''""V every resident ot tho slate nas vopie u mo siaie, especially in view jdent nsotrs ertorts to keep the conn.
a riuo as a resun 01 ine live ycarR 01 " hkh mu uiniiiiuiiuu uy in peace.
almost continuous warfure and most 'won in competition with more than a ) "This policy," he said, "Diay not sot
of the people are fair shots. . ! hundred military schools In different ' Isfy the fire-eater and the nvaslibui K-
An.ericans arriving from Sonora parts of the United States, many of 'lcr. Hut it does satisfy the mothers of
today report that there have been them supported by liberal approprla- I thoi land at vthoo liearth ami fire
many desertions from the conceutra- tions and endowments far in excess of , side no ilnnoKiic war lian plact'd an
tlon camps at l'ronteras, twenty-nlno ,tlin urnounl available for tho New empty chair. II diss snilsfy the j
nines siiiiin, aim cui nuia, uiiriy-iivu ijeiuu bcmooi. inailgliters (,r tills land fl'ciin wllolll
miles south, on tho Naconai i railroad, Standard Maintained. bluster anil brag have sent no lining
because of the monetary situation The high standard attained by the. I brother to the dissolution or tho graxc.
which has developed since the new ..Institute In l(J!i has never been low-it docs not satisfy the fathers of this
Carranza currency was put in eircu-.ered. and each succeeding yea. has hand and the soils or this land who
lation. The closing of scores of Klores the Uoswell institution again des- !lll right for our flag and die for our
in the section south of here is reported itrnutcd us one of the ten best, in the flag when reason primes the rifle:
also, as a result, of merchants being United Slates. The result has been when honor dritUN thp sword, nmt
forced to accept tho money. a growth in the attendance at the j when .justice, breathes a l.lcssliijr on i made to delegates to ta'ko their seats
tlomnsre'sahi'b: des . ... M ? hey Woro
, ;,,. , roi.irih, nu i iu ,m. iK . . ...... :- inn inM. oi me woms were urowneu nnswerea ny more noise.
vm....... .... . . eiiuonai liisiii iiiioiis ami lias iilli acieu
.1 large number of students from dis
tant stales. It is not too much to say
guns and tho marine band played
"The Star Spangled Banner," while a
buge flag was drawn slowly to the
top of the white monument, 555 feet
above the ground. Secretary tan
slnd presided and in introducing the
president emphasized the duty of
Prextnt day Americans to preserve
unsullied Ideals handed down by the
founders of the republic.
Tnll Text of Addrt,
prcheiided. A considerable Oarrnnza
force has been in Sonora for eome
tunc and if hostilities against the
Americans began, the natural military
course M'ould 'be to force Pulpit pass,
and cut the expedition off from its
base ot Columbus.
It is supposed the Sonora troops are
being moved to co-operate in General
Trevino's operations against, bandits in
Chihuahua and Duraugo, south or the
American expedition. They would be
able to reach IJurongo quickly from
Mazatlan. This explanation, if borne
out, would put a more encouraging as
pect on the situation so far as the
good faith of General Carranza's army
In its police mission goes.
CoiilenU of NoU'.
The forthcoming reply to the Mex
ican note demanding the withdrawal
A "woody tiger," was sent to Chair
man McCouiba' desk by a New York
delegate.
Chairman McComba took his placa
at his tle-k at 12:30 amid applause.
A few thumps of his gavel on a
wooden sounding board quickly re
stored ordor.
Due verse of "America" wai then
simir by the entire crowd, with tossnitf
fliign keeping the ryhthm.
This was followed by one verse of
"The Star Spurigled Bannor."
Hev. James W. Loe, Methodist
Kplscopal clergyman of St. Louis, rrad
his prayer.
Immediately nfter the prayer.
Chairman. AlcCombs delivered a brief
address.
.Mi Combs Starts Demonstration. .
A real demonstration greeted Mr.
McComba' declaration that: "The ele.
phaut la dead, the moose Is dead, Ions
live the American eagle."
J. Iiriice Kremur. secretary of ho
nft.ional committed, limn, read tho for
trial call for the convention.
When Chairman McComba an
notinced the temporary officers of the
convention, selected by the national
committee, Former Governor Martin
H. Glynn of New York, temporary
chairman, was cheered. The full list
of temporary officers was read and
approved.
Senator I!eod of Missouri, Senator
Taggart of Indiana, and Senator Pom
erene of Ohio, were appointed to es
cort Temporary Chairman Ulynn to
the chair.
Governor Glynn' declarations upon
Americanism and that "the policy of
tho administration, as to neutrality.
Is aa American n the American flag,"
wero given a. prolonged demonstra
tion.
When President Glynn predicted
the re-election nf President Wilson
the delegates rose en masse, and
cheered, waving flags and whlstlln
shrilly.
J'.x-Governor Glynn. laughing.
vainly tried to quiet the delegates but
they were determined to have it out
Mr. Glynn pounded his gavel. At Its
sound tho floor was again a sea of
(lags. The Now Jersey delegation,
bearing Its stanchion, began the pro
cession down tho front aisle. Stanch.
Ions of Illinois, Indiana, Maryland,
Indiana and other states soon fol
lowed. . -
Crowd Gets Hcyonil Control,
The crowd got entirely out of hand,
but the police stopped a general pro
cession by ordering tho delegates to
their section.
When the demonstration hud been
goinx on fifteen minutes, appeals wero
bursed to them.
Indians CaiiMi Tnnihlo.
At least a scoro of bands of I'afiui th . ,h . M.in Miiltnrv tniinii..
Indians, numbering from ten to fifty 'i- of the host ndvertipe.oenta that
at Mercy of Czar
Have Been Taken,
i.
(f MOItNtNa JOURNAL SPSCIAC LCABCO Wlt
Petrograd. June 14 (via London,
14:18 p. m.) In their advance upon
The text of the president's address ;Czei no witz. tho capital of Pukowlna,
follows: the ausstans havo occupied the village
no.' , Il'iM0.!lOt COine hfi.r, V.11 ?ftefJof Sniatyn. twenty mile northeast
nuiiii with the purpose of delivering to . . ... ... ,
m any elaborate address. It seems jot the city, the war office announced
to me that the day Is sufficiently elo-Uoday.
n'Jent already with the meaning which j in addition to their previous cap
it rtould convey to us. The spectacle ;(u tle iiusHianil have taken twenty
t the morning has been a very rnov-;' ,
mg spectacle indeed an almost un- j.0"' 'r. 6-000 ,ni'n- eiK lln8 anrl
Premeditat-d outpouring of thousands ; ten machine, guns,
"f (sober citizens to manifest their in-j The text of the statement says:
terest in the safety of thp country -Western front: Along the whol.1
1. i.. . fT''1"''88 ot tn na wnRn 'front from the southward of Polesia
4o us emoiitn. i
of the American troops will cmpha
I size again that only by definite co-bp-
M l inn AAA DV., 1 eraiion looaing to adequate policing
INeany IZUiUUU rriSOnerS jby Ilia Carranza troops, can withdraw.
hi dc received, ii is understood mo
noto will grant the Mexican request
for a new declaration of the Intentions
of ihe I'nited States and reply to the
assertion that there has been evidenco
of suspicion by American command,
ers, by giving a detailed account of
thp steps taken to gain the co-operation
of tho de facto government. The
fact thst co-operation was consistent
ly refused and Mexican forces posted
so us to ol serve the actions of tho
American troops and hamper their
pursuit of the bandits, probably will
be dwelt upon sharply.
Jt was pointed out in the note that
from President Wilson's first state
ment there has been no variation in
the friendly character of all commun
ications with Mexico and that Ameri
can troops liuve, been guilty of no
overt act. although fired upon re-
"I need not' remind you how much Uo the Rumanian frontier our troops , peatedly from towns held by Carranza
continue to drive back the enemy. ofticials. Mvretary Lansing is said
r D.e,au la-ntv nfftcer- Hndlto have, dotf mined to use fharp Ian-
members, are portttinx alum; the
Sonera river, about 100 mileK south
of the border, uee.oi d'ritr to Americans
arriving today. Severn! Panda have
crossed the river and jre. now In the
hills to tho west of Moc'exiiina, fur
ther norlh than liiey have como in
forco at any, time in the past.
Within the last two woc.ks Mh band
of about forty members, lei by a
renegade Mexican known as "Huero.1
have murdered eight Mexican wood
cutters and miners in the vlcinitv of
Huepac, on' the Sonorrt river, tour
of the men were slowly hacked to
pieces with knives and bayonets; oth
ers were burned.
Prisoners Aw Torturl,
In no case was death Inflicted im
mediately without torture, one pris
oner who (.scaped brought word o
Ilurpac that, the Mexican Huero di
rected the killing and set me.l tn take
fiendish delight In the sufferings, of
his victims.
The little towns In the southern
part of the Moetezuma and Arizpe dls-
New Mexico ever had.
What has dune fully as much to
wards maintaining the excellent repu
tation of the institute, as its place of
honor on the distinguished list has
been the Invariably excellent records
of Its graduates upon
larger field of activity
out in a roar of applause that swept
the Coliseum.
"Repeat It," cried the delegates, "re
peat it."
"All ri;ht, bi quiet and I'll repeat
it," responded Glynn, and he did, to
applause and cheering.
Crucial lroblems 1'accd,
No other president since the civil
war, Glynn told the convention, had
faced such crucial problems, none had
entering the displayed a grasp of tatesmanship
iner leaving more profound.
school J lie training received by nn "Whether the course the country
ambitious boy nt this Institution is lhas pursued during this crucial period
such as to fit him for any calling re- j iH (,, t,0 continued and whether the
quiring manliness and a well-rounded 'principles (hat have been asserted as
education, and the physical and moral jour national police slmll be endorsed
discipline, which Is part of the rouilne U,r withdrawn." Glvnn told tho enn
of tlm school l;t In itself an equipment vention, was the paramount question
fur the duties of life that Is obtalna. for the voter to decide. "No lesser
bio in few Institutions of learning In issue tllu ;t cloud it," said he, "no un
the United States. (related problems must confuse it."
The New Mexico Military rnstltute After hearing the. keynote speech,
is no placo for the mollycoddle or thebe convention adjourned until 11
Miss Nancy. The basic prleiple. of the ! o'clock tomorrow. Committees Ihen
school s to inculcate manliness of the (went into session to prepare their
highest type not tho roughness that Iwork for the session,
too often masquerades under that I Today the big Coliseum building,
name, put tlm seir-rellanl, vigorous ' holding 1 2,000 people, was practical.
U"ii.wie-a iii.ii no in muse lor wiiuie- lv fil ed, and i cso te
t riots are begging for soldiers, but'B0IIe. American citizenship. Its sys- irising lemperalure, It w.'s fairly com
The Day in Congress
JJlir.Iltf JTOi.ua, iilj n craL,, In lilnrlm- hl- Bilmilinn hcfur.
about 6,000 men Were taken prison- d facto government
ers. We have taken six cannon, ten There w;m nothing to indicate to
inachine guns and many artillery and nir.;ht that the reply would be sent be-
lamraunitlon wagons. Tht- total of fore next week at the earliest. A
i ... ki, .., ,! ,inr. feeling exists aoout the ftnte and war
prisoners and trophies captured dur- L.lu.m,.mH howVrr. that ten days
ing the operations amount to nearly or lW() wetk!( wil H n(.fine devel
i 1 20.000 men, 1.7S0 officers, 130 cuti- jopm(-nt in the domestic situation in
rmn mill machine (runs. iMevico. On what information this ex-
H..,,ut,Ucan jf Man r,ro,)()Hedj "Keports which have been re-ipectation is based has not been .lis
uniuedinte di(lrtlt ,rb i.e. solved av th enemy abandoned et closed, elthough it Is evident thut
'hi
.. SEN-ATE.
N ton, meets at noon Friday.
. HOISE.
Sl"llary comniiftee ordered fnvora-
ret)rl on armv ur)prc,pration bill.
respect and lovallv tn tho ri .c- ' certain uoints quantities of
"er;ir,ernn.. i... .1.... is..,i.: . j I.-n. .,,0 ii ln la if smh bulk
,.)i -j, ivilt lllll Vlllli'iiru ; ... mi. ....... - -
0 .nu:nment on account, of the nianjlmake It impossible to give an
' pending, but It was voted down, description at such short notice
T,tti'iUn" ' U:ii m- until noon
various
as to
exact
: as an
instance we round aoanoonru um
clent rails for field railways to cover
thirty veis (about twen'j milef).'
many officials believe (ieneral Car
ranza either must succeed in dominat
ing the situation or confess failure in
the near future. This view. If shared
by Secretary Lansing, may tend to de
lay even further sending of th Amer
ican rejoinder.
Ihus far little ullentioii has bee,,
paid to them and the concentration
of troops toward the north continues,
Tho Americans say that the people
from the southern part of the stale
are pouring into the larger towns in
the two districts, afoot or in un
kind of vehicle they could command,
abandoning everything except the, few
articles they could carry away. Re
newed reports of Yaqui activity in
tho northern part of the Alamos dis
trict today indicate the failure of the
campaign of tho 1 facto troops if
southern Sonora.
i'-in 01 maiianeiiicni is in me truest fortablc. On their wuv to the cunven
sense democratic. Every cadet enters tion hall th delegates pa-sed be
the. institution as the equal of every twecn lines or suffragists spread along
other, and dilferene.es that may arise the twelve blocks of Locust street, the
then-alter an- of his own making- In most travelled route to the CoIiF.-um.
snort, individual merit is tne onlJr'Th
torrn or aristocracy that Is recognized
RAMOS HKPOIITM HAVING
:. I X I .'Ttll UAXDITS
Chihuahua, Juno 14. -Gen. Ignacin
Itamos reported today to Gen. Jacinto
Trevino, Carranza. commander of the
north, that he had captured and exe.
cuted five members of tho bandit
gang under Nic holas Hernandez. Oen-
leral itamos recently hs been pur-
Inflnence counts fur nothing ability
i.nd enterprise for everything.
The need of military training .f the
young men of the country, irrespective
of the likelihood of the country being
involved in war. has never been so
generally recognize! in the United
States as at the present time. The New
Mexico Military Institute is doing for
the country what the nation is unable
to do training nun and fitting them
for business careers and ut the same
time turning out men who. in case war
should come, will bn equipped to take
command an officers on a moment's
notice. The Ideal condition pre
paredness without compulsion la the
aim whlfh is rin achieved bv this
institution.
suffragettes, seated on chairs,
ranged ubiiur the curbs, were nrrsyed
in white and yellow and held yellow
parasols. The waving lines of yellow
gave the demonstration the popular
name, "Golden lime."
"lilo Brings Itehcl Veil.
Just before the convention was
called to order tho band struck up
"Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean"
snd tlio delegates rose. Joining In the
chorus and waving American flags.
Inxie" brought a roar, interrupted
with tho rebel yell.
William J. Hryan was cheered as he
took his scut In the press section. The
applause for him started In the gal
leries and then spread to the dele
gates. Mr. Hryan smiled his apprecia
tion and got out his pencil and pre
paid for his renortorinl rtutli.j, . .....
Finally, after sixteen minutes, quiet
was restored and Mr. Glynn went on,
Mr. Glynn's recital of efforts by
President Wilson and former presl-
dents to preserve American neutrality
and keep peace was frequently inter
rupted by applause.
"Go on, go on," cuinc shouts from
tho crowd.
"All rlKiit, I'll hit them hard,"
Glynn answered.
When be told how many presidents
'didn't go to war,' und settled troubles
by negotiations, ho was repeatedly
cheered.
Cites Diplomatic History.
Glynn proceeded to recite incidents
In diplomatic history in which war
was avoided by republican presidents.
"As Mr. Glynn recounted each In
stance, suriie delegate would shout:
"What did the president do?"
."ll . settled our troubles by nego
tiations Just us the president Is trying
to do now," Mr. Glynn would reply.
and tho convention would roar its ap
proval.
When he had spoken one hour. Mr.
nil-nti u'nu hulf wo thfiia.li h la
J,''Ji!,l.,f'i,, -leerh and "ho attempted to pass on to
constanuy ., b,ih,i. k.. .k.. i,..i.
wameu more 01 me same.
"I can't stay on that all day," said
Mr. Glynn. "I've got something els
to tell you alout."
Women delegates led a demonstra
tion which followed Mr. Glynn's de
cision that the president's neutrality
"satisfies the mothers of tho land."
The crowd forced Mr. Glynn to read
part of his address, drowned In ap
plause. In which he declared that th
men of America "will fight and die
for our flag when reason primes tho
rifle, when honor draws the sword and
when Justice breathes a blessing on
the cause that they uphold."
Another prolonged demonstration
followed. From his desk Wllllnin J.
Hryan Joined, tears streaming and hla
face flushed with emotion. A Texas)
delegate called out:
Hryan Applauds Heartily.
Don't forget that his potlcy also
satisfied William J. Bryan.".
.Mr. Kryan Rur.el Intently at Olyntt
i
