Today's Metal Prices Iv iV fill A" A VI T WW i W V I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I I
NEW vok!.oTAT,oN, i J I F v LI LP F I L JSL'il 1 1 II ii 1 LI twewe pages
New York, Juna ,5.sver, ,.. dMV J M V f V VH i"V WV V M
I lead, $6.757.0O; spelter, $13.25; cop- Wr - N WEATHER Utah: 'Fair Tonight H
per, S27.5029.25. 1 J 3w J and Friday; Slightly Warmer Tonight H
' L . pt . In Southve6t Portion. ,
I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. - !H
I Forty-sixth Year No. 143. Price Five Centa. OGDEN CITY UTAH THURSDAY FVENING IT INF TK 1Q1G " - ' ' 1
ii VllN HI, Uln, 1I-1UK3UAI E,VE,miNU, JUINL, 15, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Pomtoffle . nnAn . nt.H. M
! Senator James Stirs Democrats to Wild I
I - Urn 1
intnusiasm in Review of Wilson's Record I
I PRESIDENT AND VSCE-PRESIDENT
TO IE IMINATED TONIGHT
i Rules Are Amended, Tentative Draft of Platform Completed
, and Hour Set for Naming of Candidates to Head Ticket
I Platform May Contain Woman Suffrage Plank
. Thousands of Suggestions Before Committee
ft ,
I
51 Coliseum, St. Louis, Mo , June 15
$ The Democratic national convention
fj today changed its program of proced-
J ure and agreed to make nominations
ijj for president and vice president to-
j$ night instead of tomorrow.
-g The rules were amended and the
"J convention adjourned at 1.22 p. m Lo
9 o'clock tonight and will remain in
ij continuous session until nominations
J are made
Coliseum, St. Louis, June 15. With
1 one demonstration after another to
i day, the Democratic convention regis
.j tcred its approval of President Wil
son's of foreign affairs which has
kept the country at peace.
When permanent Chairman James
recounted the diplomatic achieve
ments of the president in the negotia
tions with Germany, the convention
t launched into an lS-minute uproar of
j marching, cheers and waving of flags,
jri in which William J. Bryan from his
MJ.seat in the press section, joined.
jfl Calls for Bryan.
4 There were calls for a speech from
J-f Bryan, but he had slipped out while
4 the demonstration was going on.
A Jerry A. South, clerk of the house
u' of representatives, a delegate from
j Arkansas, announced that he would
a raise a point or order if consent were
V asked for Bryan to speak.
R Senator James appealed to the con
2 vention to quiet down and henr the
3 niles committee report but his efforts
Sav ere ..futile until 'heajmquncQd. jthat .
Mr Bryan' had left "the building and
would speak in the Coliseum later.
t' The crowd heard the rules committee
) report.
',. At 1:22 p. m. a recess was ordered
until tho night session. The motion
jf v.as out of respect to "William P. Kast
i? ing, postmaster of Buffalo, a member,
Jj Tvho died suddenly this morning.
a When James recounted In implied
j terms the president's diplomatic sue
I cesses in the negotiations with Ger-
many the delegates wanted to hear it
' again.
; "Repeat, it," they demanded.
Crowd Breaks Loose.
James repeated his statement and
" the crowd rose., and broke loose with
j cheers. In repeating the phrase from
:j his prepared speech, the senator said:
i "Woodrow Wilson, without orphan
I Ing a single child, without widowing
' a single American mother, without
' firing a single gun, without the shed
t ding of a single drop of blood, wrung
from the most militant spirit that ever
jv brooded above a battlefield an agree-
aent to American demands and a con
: ceBsion of American rights.
The band swung Into "America" and
7 the Star Spangled Banner.'' Hats
and flags went into the air. Some
' body cried: v
"Three cheorB for Wilson."
ji The crowd roared the answer.
j Pandemonium Breaks Loose.
'i Stanchions were torn from the floor
and a march of delegates through
the hall was started. Tho aisle be.
I came choked because the demonstra
: was begun without organized lead
l erBhlp. The congestion aided In short
i ening the demonstration. The band
'played tho "Hot Time' as a march-
Ing tune while Senator James fanned
his florid face.
After the demonstration had been
; naming 12 minutes the Kentucky
a standard was taken to the platform
J and placed directly behind Mr. James.
U was tho signal for cheers and a
j tiger for the speaker while the band
Played "Dixie," followed by the "Bat
i,'Ue ry of Freedom."
Tho applause had lasted 18 minutes
i irhen Mr. James was able to proceed.
i'When Mr. James finished there were
.ignore cheers and applause and calls
for "Bryan."
j Bryan Vigorously Applauds.
' 8enator James departed widely from
the printed text of his speech, but
nhe sentiment presented was substan
tially tho same. When he recounted
,'the horrors of war and tho president's
Efforts to preserve peace. William
i'J. Bryan, his face flushed with cmo
i,Uon, roso to his feet and applauded
rigorously.
' -
1 Delegate Kastlng Drops Dead.
Coliseum, St. Louis, Mo., June 14.
12:i2 p. m. William F. Kasting, post
'toastcr of Buffalo, N. Y., dropped dead
I at the Maryland hotel here today.
'He was holding tho proxy o Mayor
I fFuhrmann. of Buffalo, a delegate to
the Democratic convention.
f Draft of Platform.
St. Louis, Mo., June 15. After a
-three hour session today members of
'he Democratic convention sub-com-
i 'aUtee, said the tentative draft would
ontain a woman suffrage plank at
1 kast a8 strong as that contained In
( tho Republican platform, and expres-
lnB tho belief of the Democratic par-
v that women should be enfranchised
The sub-committee had before it
I -?!0fe than 1,000 suggestions for
KVlBiiks of all sorts.
JAMES MAKES
NOTABLE SPEECH
Epoch-making Achievements
'of Democratic Administra
tion in Beneficial Legisla
tion and Keeping Peace.
FOR ADEQUATE DEFENSE
i
More Done for Army and!
Navy in Three Years Than'
Republicans Did in
Forty Years.
St. Louis, Mo., June 15 The achive
ments of the Wilson admnllstration
in enacting beneficial legislation and
in keeping the country at peace with
out sacrifice of the national honor
were pronounced epoch-making in
American history by Senator Ollie M.
James of Kentucky in his address to
day as permanent chairman of the
Democratic national convention.
''During- three-years' 0f ICs national
control," said Senator James, "Demo
cracy has enacted into law more pro-
STTPSSivp VPmoclint latilclotlnn !.,. Il.
nation has ever had written upon its
statute books since Its birth. In farm
er national contests in the last two
decades, our party came as a prophef
Today we come with deeds, not
words; with performance, not promis
es. The Democratic party has, kept
its word with the American people
We have made good "
Legislative Record Reviewed.
The chairman reviewed at length
the legislative record of the admin
i istration, and eulogized the president
for his direction of foreign affairs
The Democrats, he said, had enacted
a tariff law under which monopolies
were curbed, and unexampled pros
perity attained; a banking law tak
ing the money control out of the hands
of an oligarchy, and making panics
no longer possible, and many reform
measures of lesser importance.
He declared President Wilson's
Mexican policy and his course in pro
tecting American rights against the
encroachments of European belliger
ents had shown all the world that the
president neither bullies tho weak nor
fears the strong.
Triumph of Patriotism.
In a concluding appeal for the tri
umph of patriotism above politics,
Senator James said the renomination
of such a president in a partisan con
vention ought not to be necessary, and
that to discredit him might palsy the
head that could write the peace treaty
of the world.
At the outset, the senator referred
briefly to President Wilson's cam
paign against lobbying in congress,
and pointed out that under this admin
istration tho constitution had been
amended for the first time since the
civil war when "wo freed the senate
from tho control of the great interests
by making It. elective by the people
at the polls." Ho then eulogized the
Underwood-Simmons tariff act as one
of which tho party was justly proud.
"Not a schedule in It favors a mo
nopoly," he said. "Our Republican
friends told us It would close the fac
tories, fill the streets with Idle men.
produce a panic, create soup-houses,
and that distress would reign every
where, but we rejoice today to point
to an unexampled prosperity In the
nation, with labor more generally cm
ployed, at higher wages, shortor hours
and better conditionr, ban over be
fore. Our Republican friends tell us
that after the war is ovor, poor, strick
en, prostrate, torn, 'deeding Europo
will take our homo market from 113.
I have no such fear. America Is go
ing to take the markets of tho world.
But we shall cut from them the last
hope of having a false issue, for we
shall pass a bill creating a tariff board
to gather the facts created by new war
conditions."
Federal Reserve Law.
Turning to the federal reserve law,
Senator James declared that it alone
averted a panic at the outbreak of
the European war.
"What would liave been tho result
IT tho old Republican system had
been in effect?" ho asked. "The
stock exchanges in every city In the
world were closed, teurope poured
its vast holdings In platharglc streams
upon our shores. Who thinks that
tho old Republican system of finance
under tho guidance of those patriotic
guardians would have been able to
withstand this mighty cataclysm? But
Miat was tho result9 Not a bank
closed its doors; not a laborer Aas
I thrown out of employment, not a bus
iness was forced into bankruptcy, but
there stood strong, serving the mass
es of mankind, this great legislative
achievement of the Democratic party
A.s the matter achievement of Wood
row Wilson to my mind next to keep
ing a hundred million people at peace
with the world, the historian will re
cord the 'federal reserve law "
Declaring that self-defenso and pre
paration for it is as necessary now as
ever before the speaker pointed to
the administration's preparation pro
gram as proof that the party believed
in preparedness without militarism.
Democrats Want Adequate Defense.
"In 1906," he continued, "I attended
the great peace conference held In
London. I thought that the millenium
of peace had come and such a thing
as the world's war was impossible;
but that day when the Christian heart
shall rule the world is not yet in
sight We must not mistake dishonor
for peace, as wc cannot mistake op
pression for peace. Woodrow Wilson
and the Democratic party advocate
an army big enough to make aggres
sors think the second time before they
strike a blow. Democracy wants an
army and a navy In keeping with the
dignity, preservation and worth of this
great republic We do not want a
foot of anybody else's soil, and, by the
Eternal God, they shall not take a
foot of ours.
Army and Navy Building.
"During this administration we have
done more to build up an army and
navy in three years than the Republi
can party did in forty years of its
existence. More has been done to
give the American people a navy and
army in three months than Colonel
Roosevelt and Mr. Taft did in eleven
years."
Senator James spoke of the Repub
lican platform declaration for a con
tinuous policy of national defense, de
claring that only two propositions for
a continuous policy ever had been
made in American history one by tho
general board of the navy In 1903,
which was pigeonholed by a Republi
can secretary of the,, navy, and tho
other by President Wilson In his ad
dress to congress last December.
Republcanp Oppose Jrogram.
"But whal happened when this mat
ter was under consideration in the
naval affairs committee of the house,"
1 i 1. ..l UTTt...... T) n
conunueu int sbuuwi. i;ij re
publican member of the committee
decided to oppose the president's con
tinuous program, and would vote for
no program longer than one year. Af
ter sixteen years of failure even lo
let tho public know of the continuous
policy proposed by naval experts,
much less to carry out such a policy,
and after the Republicans on the
house 'naval affairs committee In
June 1908, unanimously opposed the
president's policy, they now say they
favor the continuous policy.
The Republican plank declaring for
an "effective system of rural credits,
as opposed to the ineffective law pro
posed by the present Democratic ad
ministration," was assailed by Senator
James, who declared that almost even,-
Republican in the house and sen
ate had voted for the administrations
rural credits bill and that none had
charged that It was ineffective, or had
proposed a substitute."
Killed the Shipping Bill.
The senator also replied to Repub
lican criticism of the administration's
shipping bill, which he declared would
have given the United States an ade
quate merchant marine by now, had
it not been killed at the last session
of congress bv. a Republican filibuster
"For the first tline in the history
of our country," said Senator James,
after reviewing briefly Democratic
legislation which he declared had
made prosperity possible, "tho United
States leads the world In exports.
We are more prosperous than ever,
and mills which have not turned a
splndlo for years are now busy. All
tho laborers of the United States arc
employed as never before With the
world war raging, our country is the
only neutral one that Is not In dis
tress, and the only one that has not
declared a moratorium. Every de
mand of tho stress of the war the
Democratic party has met quickly.
We have freed business from the
blackmail of tho politician, as we
have emancipated it from tho clutch
of monopoly."
Wilson's Mexican Policy.
The senator likened President Wil
son's Mexican policy to that of Lin
coln, and quoted from a declaration
of the latter to show that he had de
clined to Intervene when conditions
were much tho same as now.
"It Is a perfectly easy thing," ho
continued, "for the president of the
United States to plunge his country
into war If ho is a politician before
he is a patriot. He would seek his
own re-election as he came upon
horseback up the bloody highway of
contending armies. Of course, our
army could Invade Mexico and march
In triumph to the capital, but after
the war was over other armies would
march an army of widows and orph
ans, an army of cripples and men
broken in health, an army of pension
ers, and an army of tax collectors
gathering up the earnings of tho peo
ple to pay tho great war debt.
"The president had acted quickly,"
the senator said, "when there was au
Invasion of American territory, and
tho punitive expedition now was do
ing all that this country could do
with honor In Mexico."
"No president during tho life of
this republic," said the senator, "has
ever had to deal with so many deli
cate and dangerous problems as those
which have confronted President Wll-
(Contlnued on Pago 7.)
COAST LINER IS
WRECKED IN FOG
Tug Rescues Nearly All Pas
sengers and Crew of
Steamer Bear.
RADIO CALLS ARE SENT
Battleship Oregon, the Grace
Dollar, Tugs and Life-saving
Crews Respond.
Eureka, Calif., July 15. Eighty-two
survivors of the 21G souls aboard the
coasting steamer Bear, wrecked last
night near Cape Mandicono had been
accounted for and five persons were
known to have perished at 10:30 to
day. Eureka, Calif., June 15 Five bod
ies have been recovered from the
coastwise steamer Bear, wrecked last
night on Sugar Loaf rock, and one
boat was seen today trying for a
landing on the rocky coast, according
to a message received here from the
light keeper at Cape Mendocino.
Most of tho 182 souls aboard were
reported safe aboard the tug Rescue
which went out from here, and first
advices were that all had been res
cued. The fog which brought disas
ter to the Bear continued Impenetra
ble today.
No Lifeboats Found.
Eureka, Cal., June 15. None of the
lifeboats carrying the 119 passengers
and the members of the crew who
abandoned the Bear of the San Fran
cisco and Portland Steamship com
pany when she piled up in the fog
on -Sugar Loaf rock, near Cape Men
diceno late last night, had been pick
ed up at daybreak today.
The battleship Oregon and the
steamer Grace Dollar, which answered
111U O W. O. UL1I1S Ul Lilt" bLl.UlUUU
liner, have been patrolling the vicin
ity of the wreck since early morn
ing and are at a loss to know what
became of the survivors, A tug and
lifo saving crow from this port are
also at the scene.
Battleship Oregon Searches.
A thick fog lay over the water at
daybreak and although a heavy swell
was running, there Is a possibility
that the survivors suceeded in reach
ing the rocky mainland shore, five
miles from Sugar Loaf rock. The
Oregon arrived before daybreak and
played its big searchlights through the
fog to no avail.
When the liner cradled In the rocks.
Captain L. M Nopander, who was In
chargo did not send out an S. O. S.
call Immediately, evidently believing
he could clear his boat. Apparently
finding tho steamer tightly clamped,
he ordered the passengers out of their
berths and Into the lifeboats.
Passengers Take Lifeboats.
The order to abandon the ship came
at midnight. Everybody went over
tho aides into the small boats and
havo not been seen since. The Bear
was leaking badly when deserted and
at daybreak showed signs of breaking
up
The sea was calm and there was
but little wind when tho passengers
and crew took to the boats. Later a
heavy swell started to run and the
wind freshened. It was first believed
all the boats would remain together
and bo picked up at daybreak.
When tho distress call was sent
out it was picked up by both the Ore
gon, which was steaming from the
Bremerton navy yard on the Puget
Sound, to San Francisco, and tho
Grace Dollar. The radio stations here
also received the calls and life saving
crews were dispatched.
Sugar Loaf rock whore the Bear
cradled in the fog, Juts out into the
sea at the outermost end of a long
ledge of rocks known as Blunt's reef,
which extends out from Cape Mendi
ceno for about fivo miles. During the
past twenty years a dozen boats have
been piled up on the rocks of the
reef with tho loss of many lives.
The Bear was bound south from
Portland, Oregon, for San Francisco,
carrying 119 passengers for San Fran
cisco and Los Angoles. Tho steam
er was valued at approximately ?1,
000,000 and has been in the Pacific
coastwise service over sinco sho was
built at Newport News soven yeai'3
ago
oo
TWO AMERICAN
SOLDIERS KILLED
Laredo, Toxas, June 15. One hun
dred Mexican bandits, crossing over
tho Rio Grand forty miles southoust
of here, early today attacked the
American border patrol near San Ig
naclo, killing two and wounding five,
according to reports sent to Fort Mc
intosh, here over the field telephone.
The Mexicans expected to find an
insignificant detachment of Ameri
cans. Instead they were met by
Troops I. and M. of tho 1-itli, 140
btrong, under Major Alouzo Gray.
They were hurled back across the
river. losing six dead and several
wounded.
Attackers Lose Heart.
The bandits first attacked Troop M.
Troop T, a short distance up the river,
heard the shooting and hurried to
tho scene. Tho attackers lost heart
and retreated southward along tho
river, keeping on the American side
for some distance before crossing
back to Mexican soil.
The attack began at 2 a. m. and the
fighting lasted about 30 minutes. A
bright moon lighted the scene. The
Mexicans attacked tho rear of the
patrol's camp firing the first shot at
a sentry.
The number of Mexican soldiers
killed were not reported to headquar
ters at Fort Mcintosh for tho reason
that immediately after the attack the
two troops of cavalry started In pur
suit of the Mexicans.
It was taken for granted here that
Major Gray would pursue the basd to
Mexico 'and that it would not be sur
prising if the Americans should fol
low the "hot trail" across the river.
It was impossible to learn the iden
tity of the Mexicans here other than
they were merely "bandits." Those
killed and wounded were dressed in
peon garb but were exceptionally well
armed.
Other troops of cavalry have been
ordered in readiness to proceed to the
San Ignacio section either to assist
or to relieve Major Gray's command.
Word reached here later that one
of tho wounded American soldiers
shot through the head had died. The
statement was also made that eight
of the Mexican raiders were killed
and forty-two horses captured in the
pursuit. Colonel Brown has requested
county officials to warn all Mexicans
in ranches near here to get away
from the river.
Tho fight took place on the Ameri
can side, the Americans engaged, ac
cording to latest reports, being troops
I, and M. of the 14th cavalry under
Major Gray, a total of about 140 men.
The bandits, numbering more than
one hundred, are said to have lost six
killed and several wounded.
-San-Antonio,- Texas, -June 15. Two
American soldiers were killed early
today in a fight with bandits near
San Ignacio, forty miles southeast of
Laredo, according to a report to Gen
eral Funston.
Six of the Mexicans were killed in
tho engagement that began at 2
o'clock. It is believed several of the
Mexicans wero wounded, but they
were carried away by their compan
ions. Tho American wounded was
seven.
1 L IB IS BEI
BANQUETED By HIS
ADMIRERS
A. L. Mohler, president of Union
Pacific and Oregon Short Line, ar
rived In Ogdon late yesterday after
noon and, in view of his announced
retirement from active duty July 1,
was given a farewell dinner by G. L.
Becker at the Hermitage, at which
only a few of Mr. Mohlcr's personal
friends were present.
Tho citizons of Cheyenne. Wyo..
gave Mr Mohler a banquet while en
route through to Ogden on tho eve
ning of June 13, at which some two
hundred were present, including all
the representative citizens of Wyo
ming and a largo number of railroad
officials from the cast and west, most
ly from foreign lines, who went to
Cheyenne for the express purpose of
attending his banquet.
Mr. Mohler goes east tonight en
route to Denver, at which point he will
bo given a banquet by the leading
citizens n Monday evening. Three
separate banquets are scheduled for
Omaha, In Mr. Mohler's honor, upon
his return to headquarters. After July
1 he has announced his decision, to
go to Long Island, N. Y , and spend
tho balanco of the summer recuperat
ing. From what is said by Mr. Mohler's
friends, ho has never fully recovered
from the severe fall ho received on
tho Ice at Omaha last winter and the
much needed rest is what he requires
to get entirely well.
Mr. Mohler is one of tho most
prominent railroad men in tho coun
tr)', Is a western man haviug been
general manager oi mo ureal iNoriu
ern railroad at a very young age, com
ing to the Union Pacific from the pres
idency of the Oregon Railroad & Navi
gation company. Sincere expressions
of regret are heard from all sides,
from his employes and tho business
public as well. While his many
friends in Ogden. regret his loss, they
are qulto happy In knowing ho will,
for a tlmo at least, be a gentleman of
lelsuro and receive a well deserved
rest after some forty-six years' con
tinuous and very active railroad duty.
oo
Austrlans Make Stand.
Berlin, Juno 15. Wireless to Say
ville.Austrian troops in Bukowina aro
maglng a stand north of Czornowitz,
and also are holding the Russians east
of the .city. Tho repulse of Russian
attacks from both these directions is
announced In the official headquart
ers statement from Vienna, Issued un
der date of Juno 11.
GERMANS BOMBARDING KEY70 INNER I
DEFENSES OF MDi FORTRESSES I
Crown Prince's Army Drives Wedge Into French Lines South '
of Cumieres Russians Making Steady Headway Many H
Thousands Captured, Together With Machine H
Guns, Cannon and Great Quantities of War H
Equipment Czernowitz Cut Off in AIL H
Directions Except South Italians H
Repulse Austrians. fl
Rome, June 15, via London, 2:30 p. m. A surprise at- H
tack was made yesterday on Austrian positions east of Mon- i
falcone. The official statement of today announces that Ital- H
ians captured Austrian trenches after a severe engagement, H
taking several hundred prisoners. H
Petrograd, June 1 5, via London, 7:27 p. m. fVlore than '
1 50,000 men have been captured by the Russians during the H
offensive movement on the Volhynian and Galician fronts, it
was officially announced today. The following statement was H
given out: H
"Supplementary reports give the exact number of prison- IH
ers taken as one general, three commanders, 2,467 officers, lH
five doctors and 150,000 men. We also have captured 163 H
cannon, 266 machine guns, 19 bomb throwers and 32 mine H
"The offensive of General Brusiloff
did not stop yesterday. In various
regions on the front fresh prisoners
and more military booty were taken.
The enemy continues to deliver coun
ter attacks at several points and else
where is busy entrenching himself In
new positions.
"In the Baltic on the night of May
31 June 1 our torpedo boats attacked
a convoy of enemy steamers sailing
under escort. During tho engagement
with the escort wo sank two steam
ers of a small torpedo type and one
auxiliary cruiser whose crew we cap
tured. There was no loss or damage
to our side. We refrained from pur
suing the enemy steamers because,
during the engagement, they took
their course into Swedish territorial
waters."
Intense Artillery Duels.
Unnin Tnno 1 TllP nTfipifll war
communication says:
I "Between tho Adige and the Brenta
' rivers yesterday there were recon
! naissances and Intenso artillery ac
tions on both sides. Our artillery dis
persed enemy columns on the march
and shelled battery positions at sev
eral points. J
I "After Intense artillery preparation
I yesterday evening a gallant Naples
brigade supported by dismounted cav
alry detachments in a surprise attack
penetrated enemy lines east of Mon
falcoue. The trenches remained in
our possession after a severe strug
gle. Wo captured ten officers, 4SS
men and seven machine guns."
Paris. June 15, 11:55 a. m. The
Germans are continuing the violent
bombardment of the French positions
north of Souville, the key to tho inner
defenses of Verdun, the official state
ment issued by the French war office
states today.
No infantry fighting occurred on
either bank of the Meuse last night.
On the Vosges front some minor Ger
man attempts to attack the French
line were mado but completely failed,
according to tho official statement.
The text of the statement follows:
"On both banks of the river Mouse
there was cessation of infantry ac
tivity last night. On the other hand
the "French and the Gormnn artillery
branches showed activity in the region
of Chattancourt as well as in the sec
tor north of Souville.
"In the Vosges a strong detachment
of the enemy which, supported by a
spirited bombardment, endeavored to
approach our lines was driven back
by tho flro of our machine guns. An
other surprise attack by the enemy
upon our positions northwest of Bon
Ilommo resulted in a complete fail
ure." Intenso artillery activity is report
ed on both banks of tho Meuse, on
tho'Verdun front. Tho Germans aro
directing a heavy fire on Fort Sou
ville, northeast of the fortress.
West of the river Chattancourt,
south of Cumieres, where tho Ger
mans already havo driven a wedgo
Into the French lines, Is an especial
point of attack.
In their 'offensive on the eastern
front tho Russians are apparently
making steady headway although still
some distance from Lemberg, their
immediate objective in Galicia, Last
reports place them just across tho
border some fifty miles north of the
city.
In Bukowina, Czernowltz, the capi
tal, apparently is cut off from all di
rections but the south.
Allied Attitude Denounced.
Athens, Juno 14, via London, Juno
15, 10:45 a, m. Tho attitude of the
allies toward Greece was denounced
at a number of meetings held hero to
day at which resolutions wero adopted
addressed to King Constantino ex
pressing confidence in tho government
of Premier Skouloudls.
Tho resolutions protootcd against ,
tho blockade of Grecian ports estab- iH
lished by England and Prance and de- , H
nounced the conduct of the allies to- H
ward neutral nations and "especially H
toward the president of America." Il
A feature of the resolutions was tho il
reference to' King Constantine XIII. il
This title placed him in line with the '1
fucient rulers of Constantinople. H
" ! IH
Russians Are Repulsed. , H
Berlin, June 15. WIreIss to Say-
ville. Russian troops in dense forma- H
tion attacked the Teutonic lines near , H
Przewloka, but were repulsed by Gen-
oral von Bothmer's troops, it was au- ll
nounced by army headquarters to-
The statement says: M
"Western front: Aside from artillery M
duels and patrol engagements there M
havo been no occurrences.
"Eastern front: The army of Gen- H
eral Bothnier repulsed several attacks M
delivered in dense waves by the Rus- M
sians near and north of Przowolka." M
British Are Repulsed. M
Constantinople, June 15, via London, M
4:15 p. in. The repulse of an attempt H
to advance made by tho British force H
that remained. on the Tigris below H
Kut-El-Amara after the surrender of H
General Townshend, was announced H
by the war office today. The engage- H
merit occurred on the right bank of H
the river near Felahic. H
The statement says: H
"Irak front: Near Felahic during H
an engagement between a British H
squadron advancing on the right bank H
of tho Tigris, the British wore de- H
feated and forced to retreat. ,H
"South Irak front: Persian volun- H
teers havo been attacking tho Russian H
forces since tho recent Russian de- H
feats, inflicting heavy losses upon tho H
enemy. In the Euphrates sector a H
detachment of 400 British was annl- H
hilated by our volunteers. H
"On June 11 our aeroplanes attacked H
tho British camp on the Sue canal H
near Remain and Kantara with bombs, H
causing great disorders. H
British Seize Danish Mail. yM
Berlin, June 15. WirolesB to Say- H
ville. A Copenhagen dispatch quotes H
the Danisli postmaster-general as atat- H
ing that the British authorities re- H
moved all the first class mail from tho H
Danish liner United States from Co- H
penhagen June 1 for New York, and
all tho first class mail and parcels H
from the Danish liner Frederick VIII H
from New York May 31 for Copen- H
hagen. H
UuVlHIYUIi uiK I
ESCAPES DEATH I
Bomb in Mail Package Ad- , H
dressed to Utah Executive H
Explodes and Wrecks Ore- H
gon Short Line Car. M
Butte, Montana. Juno 13. A bomb H
in a package in one of the mail H
pouches being transferred from a
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy train M
to the Oregon Short Lino here today H
exploded and wrecked the Oregon H
Short Line mail car. The package, H
It was reported, was addressed to the . H
governor of Utah. H
Investigation of the presence of the
bomb In the mall is being made by H
federal authorities here. Postmaster
Phil Goodwin who collected pieces of M
tho bomb and tho packages In which H
it was hidden expressed tho. belief
that tho Infernal machine was ad-
dresBed to the governor of Utah. H
