feR & JeJf
Stasia
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1016.
NUMBER 51.
Temporary Chairman of St. Louis Convention on
Opening Day Arouses Delegates to High De
gree of Enthusiasm by Picturing President
Wilson's Peaceful Conduct of Foreign Af
fairs President Telegraphs Plank for Plat
form Which Charges Some Foreign-Born
Citizens with Conspiracy to Assist other Gov
ernments Bryan Says He Has no Plank to
Offer.
St. Mollis, June 1 1. The democratic
rational convention at Its first session
to-day heard the keynote of Anioilcnn
lsm and peace, preparedness and pros
perity sounded by former Ciovernor
Martin 11. Glynn, of New York, as tem
porary chairman, and with a high pitch
of enthusiasm emphatically registered
li demonstration after demonstration
Its approval of President Wilson's
peaceful conduct of foreign affairs.
The convention which had gotten un-
lor way with such perfunctory demon- j
pfatlons as marl: every national gath-
e lug of the kind, soon stirred itself
lito roaring cheers as Chairman
Glnn cited historic parallels to show
that other presidents, ineJudlng repub
licans, had adjusted threatening for
fc gn situations without resort to war.
BRYAN SHEDS TEARS.
William J. Hryan. as a newspaper
r rrespondent in the press stand, wept
villi emotion as (llymi pictured the vic
tories of peace, but lie laughed with
tbe crowd when a Texas delegate inter
rupting Glynn leaped to ills clialr and
cr'ed" "And don't forget that policy
nlso Is satisfactory to William Jennings
J ryan "
lO-MlNFTE DEMONSTRATION.
Aside from a 10-mlnutn demonstration
Vlilcli began when Chairman Glynn pre.
rP ted President Wilson's ie-eectlou,
fi'yi n's speech Man sprinkled with
demonstrations which he found It diffi
cult to stem so lie could go on. It was
plain dat the telling points on the dele
gates were the roi Ital of President Wll-i-eui's
efforts to keep the country at
peace.
glynn electrifies afdience.
"Tills polii y " lie said, "may not sat
isfy the tire-cater ami the swashbuckler.
3ti it does satisfy the mothers of the
land at whose hearth and fireside no
Jingoistic war has placed an empty
chair It does satisfy the daughters, of
t' is land from whom bluster and brag
have sent no living brother to the dis
solution of the grave. Tt does satisfy
the fathers of this land and the sons
of this land who will fight for our ilag
and die for our Hug when reason primes
the rllle, when honor draws the sword
nnd when Justice breathes a blessing on
tlio standard they uphold." The last of
the words were drowned out In a roar
of applause that swept the. Coliseum.
"Repent it," cried the delegates; "re
peat it "
"All light, bo quiet and I'll repeat
It " resnot.ded Glynn, and he did to ap
p'aus" and cheering.
o other President since the Chll
Wa'- (llymi told the convention, bad
In 'rd such crucial pioblems, neme had
ri'silayed a giasp of statesmanship j
mne profound
(The full text of cx-Ciovenior Clynn's
Freer I may ho found on page 12.1
After hearing tbn keynote speech tho
con ntlon adjourned until 11 o'clock to
morrow. Committees then went into
eession to prepare, their work for the
session.
"GOLDEN LANE" OK SUKFUAGISTS
To-day, tho big Coliseum holding about
2,W people, practically wan filled a
elesplto a constantly rlslns temperature
It was fairly comfortable. Or. their way
to tho convention hall the dele.gatCFl
passed between lines of suffraglst3
Hiread along 12 blocks of Ixicust street,
the most traveled route to tho Coliseum
1 l.o suffragists seated on chairs ranged
nlong tho curb-i were arrayed in white
nnd yellow and hold yellow parasols.
1 he waving lines of yellow gave tha
domonstratlon th popular name "Gol.
ilen Ianc,"
I'lVESIDENT WILSON'S l'LANK.
Tresident Wilson's 'Mank on American
ism, for the democratic platform, pran'.l
eally charging a conspiracy by some for
eign born citizens tu inlluence. foreign
and Internal affairs for the benolit ,f
other governments, and condemning any
organization countananclng such move
inents na well as any political party,
which, by fa.lurn to ropudlato such a con
t-nlrney, receives the benefit of It at tho
ballot box-, was telegraphed bore to-nlgh
from Washington and placed befora
democratic loadera.
As tho resolutions conunltteo which will
draft tho platform and pass on the plank
n. 11 hnor tn.nkAit ,
continuing' public hearings of poisons
urging various declarations in the plat-
uihiiih - ....
fnrrn. tho nlank wh en lias tlio ITesKieni'd
approval and which promises to bo tho
nsatlon of the democratic platform,
was not formally considered and prob
ably will not bo until to-morrow when
tho fiub-commlttoo which makes tho final
'raft of the platform lias Its meeting,
TENTATIVE WORDING OF PLANK.
Ono tentative form for tho wording of
t to plank which wns being considered to -
l lt;ht but which wan subject to change
1 y tho commlt'co was an follows;
"Attention la called to certain organiza
tions which have been attempting to ln
t'uonco tho course of American lives and
policies In tho Interest of foreign powers.
Buch orsnnlzatl'ins are comlomnca nnutbo committee, tho tlmo was rlyo for
any political party which seeks to lake
advantage of such InlUiemes Is de
nounced." This would be followed by a declaration
to make it clear that ie plank is In no
way to be taken as a rellectlon upon the
meat hody of naturalized citizens, irre
spective of their race or origin.
NO PLANKS FROM lilt VAN.
Willie the resolutions committee was
""mn tn-mgnt .lomucl K. King or
Utnh rnR'1 nnd ma,, tllls statement:
"' " William ,1. Hryan to-day
If lie would submit miv
Planks." Jle replied: 'I have no planks
to offer but one and that Is the presl- w hlcli will lie submitted by the adminls
dent's. Determine what he wants ami tratlon to the St. Louis convention,
his plank will be mine. I expect to The President spoke before a crowd of
go before the people in bis behalf on t thousand gathered at the foot of the
your report." " , Washington monument, after he had rc-
NOT MUCH ABOUT MEXICO. I viewed for five hours a great prepared-
. , . . "ess patade at the head of which h"
(.onrcrcnccs among leaders which , hmsel
marched down Pennsylvania
have followed the arrival of Secretary .lVpm,e declared that not since the
" .. 1 """" ""r"" Ir,,m
rresldent Wilson on navy features or
tlio declaration of principles brought
the status of the democratic platfoini
to-night to a point where, aside from
the all-important issue of foreign af
fairs, It stood substantially as feillows:
No specific mention would be made or
Mexico and that subject would lie cur
creu uy implication in general ciecinra- ; V(,rv actvo alM, slll)t(1 mlnorty.
tlons outlining relations of the United ..,t works ,m(Icr Bri(lmili i,t it also
States with other governments. s!imvs Us uly llP.u, whol.0 wo r.m
FOE PROTECTION OK AMERICANS. It: and there are those at this moment
nights of American citizens would w" nrn trying to levy a species of
he dealt with in a long plank declar- blackmail, saying, 'do what we wish In
lug for their protection at home and the Interest of foreign sentiment or wc
uhi-onil i will wreak our vengeance at the polls.'
A peimaneut peace tribunal would 'Hint ls t,!0 M,l' nf against which
be advocated as a court of arbitral 1 "'' American nation will turn with a
Justice to which all disputes between ! mlht !'ni1 triumph of sentiment which
nations should be referred. I wl" l1'1' centlemen once for all
While the platfoini would deal with!"1"' 1,,ynU.v n lMh " ls! llrst test
the peaceful settlement of disputes be-
tween nations, It would be outspoken hi
Its declaiations that the navy should be '
of proportions and elllcleney to maiee I
effective the Mmroe doctrino, and that I
the standing annv should be of sufficient
stiength to secure the country agaln.it
unexpected aggression,
TO AUVOCATi: lTiClLT-HOUn DAY,
Touching Internal questions: the plat
form would dee late for an eight-hour day
for working men, and also civil service
pensions with a declaration that the gov
ernment should caro for thoso upon
whom it depends tei man its operating
machinery. One plank would deal Willi
child labor and another would advocat"
legislation in tho interest of the labor
m all government Institutions.
in several succeeding plunks the leglsla
tlve record of the administration would
be set forth with rcfcrencn to the federal
reserve law, the trade commission act,
Uie shipping bill, the tiuiff commission
bill, rural credits legislation nnd other
ineasuies passed by Congress or now
being pressed by the administration.
Then the. platform would contain a detl
nlto pronouncement that when the pro
gram now under way is completed there
will bo no more legislation which the
business wo Id could regard as restrain
ing; In short business would bo promised
a rest from congressional Interference.
Tho draft as Secretary Raker brought
It from tho White House made no claims
for general approval of tho President's
eourf-o for "peace and prosperity," but
President "Wilson's friends here aro de
termined that the platform would not tie
completo without a strong presentment
on that point and Senatur Hunting of
Wisconsin was assigned to prepare a
plank, with tho suggestion that It bo
drafted in terms sufllclently strong to
mako It ono of tho keynoteD of tho cam
paign. SUFFRAGE PUNK LIKE G. O. P.'S.
A plank on womnn suffrage which was
suggested by tho President himself, prob
ably will bo redrafted. Indications to
night aro that tho plank will bo not unlike
tho republican plank, recognizing the
right of suffrage for women but holding
to tho right of the States to rcgulato the
ballot themselves.
OO.MPERS REFORE COMMITTEE.
Tho platform conunltteo organized
to-day by electing Senator Stone, chair
man, and Levis Itlcknoli of South
wiiRium hucreiary. n started nubile
h(!trlnl'3 w" President Comnors of
"0 American Federation of Labor, who I
t pmnita similar
to thoso offered to tlin ,n,,i.ii ,
i . . . ' i"ii:.tiin ni
Chicago last week. President dompors
began by declaring that tho Demo
cratlc party had odno well by labor,
but it must bo further. Ho said ho
was for preparedness.
"Hut," ho said, "wo do not want sim
ply tho preparedness to carry a gun.
Thoio must bo somothlriH better, wider,
( deeper than carrying1 a gun. Thero
.must bo a preparedness thnt Is physl-
c.i., mental nnd spltltunl nnd particu
larly industrial."
Mrs, W. I. Thomas of Chicago, rep
resenting tho Womau'H Poaco Party
and speaking', sho said, for .Inno Ad
dams, who wiih unablo to iippoar, told
plant- by which tlio United States
might tnko the load In establishing an
International court of Justice and for
another for a referendum vote before
tlio I'nltod Status could declare war.
DISLOYALTY 15
ACTIVE IN U. S.,
SAYS PRESIDENT
Charges Foreign-Born Citizens
Are Trying to Levy Politic
cal Blackmail.
Washington, June 14. A charge th'-'t
foreign-born citizens of the I'nlled States
are trying to levy political blackmail and
to undermine the Inlluence of the national
government was made bv President Wil
son in a ling speei h here to-day. Ills
asseitlem sounded the keynote of one of
tin- foremost issues on which he will go
before the country for le-clectlon, and
touched upon a platform declaration
Civil War had It been tested as it now
ls being tested whether the Stars and
Stripes stood for any one united pui
pose. "Thero is disloyalty active in thu
T'nited States and It must be absolutely
crushed," declared the rresldent, speak
ing emphatically. "It proceeds fiom
a minority, a very small minority, but
"i 'oierauce in uie e nueo Mates.
The l'lesldent's words were taken as
n" "I10" challenge to foreign born
Americans who. lie had learned trom
f,,rrl language newspapers and other
sources, are opposing him for re-elec
tlon. Officials close to him said be
was outlining his stand on what he had
determined to make a piedomlnant
issue in tils cnmpalgn.
While the democratic convention was
being opened at St. Louis .Mr. Wilson
devoted the entire day to the flag day
preparedness demonstration. Carrying
a large American tl.lg he walked from
the Capitol to the White House at the
head of more thnn .'AW marchers, in
cluding many high government officials,
employes of all the government depart
ments and of the capital's business
houses, companies of cadets, national
guardsmen anil confederate veterans and
members of commercial and social or
ganizations. WILSON IS ABOVE
PETTY POLITICS
Washington, Juno 11. Efforts to In
sert a plunk In the democratic plat
form favoring a law to prohibit federal
Judges from leaving tho bench to ac
cept elective office will not bo counten
anced by Presidont Wilson. Adminis
tration officials let it bo known to
day that tho President had sent word
to St. Louis that he did not want any
petty politics played.
ELEVATOR BURNS;
LOSS $2,000,000
Haltlmore, Juno 13. Pennsylvania
railroad -le.vntor No. 3 on tho harbor
front at Canton, n suburb, wns burned
to-day with a loss eif life conserva
tively estimated at from four to ten
men and injuries to more thnn 40 others.
Tlio victims wero mostly elevator em
ployes and cargo trimmers. Threo of
tho Injured woro in a critical condition
to-night. Conservative ontlmntes placed
tho total loss at moro than $2,001,000,
Altogether about a million bushels of
wheat, oats, barley, rye. and buckwheat
woro destroyed,
X-RAY EXAMINATION
OF COL. ROOSEVELT
Suffering: from Jlil'ecl of IIcIiik Thrown
from rf l.iiMt Ycnr.
Now York, June II, Theodoie Roose.
velt underwent an X-ray examination
here to-day for what he characterized as
"possibly a slight breaking of the
muscles" around tho rib which was
broken when ho was thrown from a horo
May 21, 1911:. Foam that tho former
president had buffered a heart attack
wero allayed to-night when he iccelved
sevrnl newspaper conespondents, ti
whom ho explained that ho contracted
a tevcre cold while returnlg seveinl
months b, from tho Wost indies and
that at Intervals slneo then ho hac' been
subjected to laughing spells. One of these
occur) ed to-day when lie and Mis. Roose
velt motored to a steamship plor to meet
Kermlt Roosevelt and tlio bitter's wife,
uon their rc-luiu from South Amcrlcu.
NEW REPUBLICAN
CHAIRMAN WILL
Conference between Mr. Hughes,
W. Murray Crane and Other
Members of the Sub-Committee
Will Be Held Then.
WICKHM SEES NOHEE
Former Attorney-General Will
Take Prominent Part in Cam
paign Humor That He Is to
Be Manager Is Officially De
nied. New York, June II. Charles D. illlles'
successor as chairman of the republican
national committee will be selected, In
all likelihood, at a conference hero next
LMonday afternoon, between Chatles K.
Hughes, the pi endentlal uoiimee, W.
Murray Crane nf .Massachusetts, chair
man of tho national sub-commllteo on
eircanlzatlou, and as many of the other
seven members of the sub-commltteo .
can bo pi client.
Arrangements for the conference were
made late to-day by Mr. Crane. It also
was announced thut the manager of the
Hughes campaign probably will he select
ed then and that the personnel of the
executive committee will bo discussed.
The sub-committee is empowered to name
the chairman and thu executive com
mittee. No announcement concerning the nom
inee's choice for national chairman, or
campaign manager, has been made nnd
Indications aro that he will continue to
consider names of available candidates
until his meeting with tho sub-commlt-lee.
In the meantime. Mr. Hughes will
continue his Informal conferences here
with party leaders and his reception o
friends and supporters. The longest
conference he hold to-day was with
George W. Wlckcr.'ham, attorney-general
In President Taft's cabinet, who
will take an active part in the cam
paign management. Mr. Wickersham
expects to keep in "so '011011 with tho
nominee fiom now until election day and
prnhahly will bo among Mr. Hughes'
i'Ioso advisers. A report that Mr. Wlck
ersham might be chosen campaign man
ager was denied at headquarters.
The nominee went to the theatre to
night. His present plans provide for
his departure from the city over Sun
day, his return here Monday to confer
with the national sub-eommlttee and
his departure Monday night for Provi
dence, It. I., where he will remain
probably until Thursday.
The pi ohlo mof selecting a summer
residence Is presenting difficulties. Tt
Is likely, however, that he will re
main in New York State and will
choose a location in the mountains not
too remote from tills city.
GRANTS CERTIFICATE.
fcnfriil Pimrr Corporation lllrlideil
by Public Service CiiiiiiiiIsmIihi.
Middlehury, June 11. The Public Scrv
ice Commission has announced Its grant
Ing to tho Cential Tower Cnrpeirntlon a
certificate setting forth that tho forma
tinn of such a corporation will be for the
good of the State.
Charles II. Thompson of Montpelier,
wlio Is engaged In hydro-electric develop
emnt promotion, has sought to secure a
chatter to develop powers on the East
Middlehury river. Tho e'ertlficate is grant
ed nn condition Hint the article of as
sociation he amended to rend: "in th"
sale of electricity, persons residing In
Vermont, municipal corporations, W" per
pons doing business In Vermont, sha'
have pieference, under similar terms ard
conditions,"
MACHINE GUN DRILL
AT PLATTSHURGII CAMP
iiiillets lliiln Into Ciiiiilierliniil liny for
First Time since INI I.
Pittsburgh, N. V Juno 14. For tho
first tlmo since the Rattle of Platts-
burgh In 1S11 when the American fleet
under Commodore MncDonough defeated
the Hrltish flest under Commodore Dow
ney In the Inst naval battle ever fought
between Great Uritaln and the United
States, bullets to-day faiily rained into
Cumberland hay. Lake Champlnln, fall
ing where the fleets fought mme thnn
a century ago,
Tho bullets wero from the machine
guns nf a company of tho student sol
dlers at the military training camp
here. The forenoon wns spent In field
maneuvers nnd tho afternoon with olec
tlve military work, which Included tho
mnchlno gun Instruction.
B. F. A's COMMENCEMENT
EmtcUch Ilegln Miturilny with Junior
Priiiiiemiile' CoIHiik'n Couching t'rnNcil
Fairfax, Juno 11, The commence
mont oxorclses of tho academy will bo
gin with the nnnunl Junior promenado
Juno 16th at eight o'clock. All stu
dents, parents and graduates of tho
school aro cordially invited to nttend
Tho baccalaurento sermon will bo
given by tho Rev. S. W. Anthony o
St. Albans at assembly hull Sunday
evening. Juno Ik, at eight ei'clock,
It Is probable that H. F. A. will plav
Middliibiiiy high school at Hurllugtun
on Satuiduy for the Male champion
ship, Tho baseball team has made
record for tlio school this year In hav
IriK won 11 nut of 17 games played.
This icsult Is nttrlbuted to the coach
ing of Ray W. Collins and tlio efficient
pitching uf Uiib'iuuu, '17.
BE CHOSEN MONDAY
happeningt:-v t.;
TV T 771TT7 Pf TT) T7 T 7 A T m T m PI
VjCkko r I
MIDDLEBURY.
The case of K'-nnk II. LaVoIco and
others vs. Henry Hobblns ngaln occupied
the entire time of county eeiurt Krldny.
At the opening of the morning sesulo 1
tho plaintiffs rested. Judge Jnmea H.
Donowny for tlio defence then Interposed
a motion that a verdict be directed for
tho defendant on a general giiiund that
tho plalntlrfs had brought In no evidence
to show that the defendant was In any
w-ay responsible to the eight plaintiffs in
any manner growing out of the Issuance
by Mr. Robblns of the two notes to M-.
Alexander. A motion waa argueii for the
defendant bv K. 11. Nrown of Hurllngton
and for the plalntirf by Allen H.
Stnrtevant. Tho court took tho matter
under advisement and aftor a half hour
consultation overruled the motion. Th
taking of testimony for the defence wns
then begun. All the juiors not engaged
on this 1 are were excused until tw.i
o'clock Mondnv afternoon.
Mrs. Elizabeth Olpsou, who lecentlv
underwent nn operation at the Mare
Klotcher hospital, icturned Thursday and
was taken to Salisbury, whore she will
stay for some time with friends while
recuperating.
Tho Junior class of the Mlddlobury high
school gave their annual leceptlon to the
senior class In the Masonic Temple Fri
day evening. Professor and Mrs. A. E.
Hnrrlman and the teachers of the school
were the chaperons. The hall was trim
med with cut tlowers and the school
colors. Tho college orchestra furnlsho 1
music. There wns a good attendance of
the two clnsses and refreshments were
served. The graduation exercises of the
class will be held Friday evening at tho
eipera house
STATE BOARD OF
HEALTH ENJOINED
Defendant Company Wants
More Light on Why It Can
not Sell Its Ice Cream
in Vermont.
Rutland, Juno 14. A tempnrnry re
straining order was served to-day on the
members of the State board of health,
resident Charles S. Caverly of Rutland,
Henry D. Holton of Rrattleboro and Fred
erick T. Kidder of Woodstock, In an ac
tion brought In the I'ntted States district
court In which State otncials will be asked
to show cause whv they should instruct
ustnmers of the Albany Ice Cream com
pany of Albany, N. Y., not to buy ice
cream which contains less than 14 per
cent of butter fat.
The defendants wcte served with the
original restraining order granted bv
Judge Haiiand IJ. Howe, dlrectiiif them
to show cause why an injunction should
not be granted the plaintiff company, the
healing to be held at P.I attleboro June 22.
It is uniloistood the State board of
health has set as a standard for butter
fat in lee cream not less than li per cent.
and thnt samples of the product from the
Mbany concern did not meet tllls reeiulre-
ment. This Is termed an "alleged stand
ard of milk fat" by the plaintiff In its
prnyer for an injunction.
The prayer in parts asks that all per
sons acting for the State board be re
strained from proceeding against any ot
tho plaintiff's customers or "serving
upon any of Its customers veibal or
written notices to the effect that Ice
cream containing los than 11 per cent
of milk fat Is either Illegal or adulter
ated, or commencing or causing to be
lommeured any actions or proceedings
against the customers nf tho plaintiff
or from taking any other steps or ac
tions which will interfere In any way
with the business or property of the
plaintiff or tho sale of the Ice cream
manufactured by It under or by color
of tho said alleged stnndnrd nf milk
fat adopted by tho defendants."
Dr. Charles F. Dalton of Burlington,
sectetary of the State board, Is not
named In tho suit. Tho Albany concern
ships vast quantities of their product
Into a large proportion of the west side
of Vermont State, especially In Ben
nington nnd Rutland bounties.
"HEALER". SCHLATTER
CHARGED WITH FRAUD
'lli-luenriiiillon of Moion'' Mny Hne
to Defend Chnrge of MIkuhc of Mulls,
New York, Juno IS. Declaring thnt lie
Is the "Reincarnation of Moses" and the
"King of Divine Healeis1' the Rev.
Francis Schlatter to-day defended his
activities as a healer In nn effort to pre
vent his removal to Los Angeles to 1 e
tried on a federal Indictment charging
uso of tho mails to defraud. Ho took the
stand In his own, defense after several
witnesses had tcstlllecF before Fnlted
Stutes Commissioner Houghton that thev
linn been mil uculously cured by him
Schlater nsseited he was born with the
power of dlvlno healing. Ho explained
that ho used a "blessed handkerchief'
which ho advertised would effect cures,
"only as John and Peter used blessed
aprons."
Schlatter admitted that lie sent nut
letters nsklng for offerings because, ha
Mild, "tho ravens will not feed us," bill
aftor living expenses are neducted what
ever money imnaliiH is sent to tho tlak
land church, ho declnred.
Tho Rev. August Algard testified that
an average of ",0 poisons a day were
"healed'' by "Father" Schlatter. Thu
healing wnH adjourned tn-.lay until
Juno 21.
Clothes (picstlons still imporatlvo at
your house? If so, to-day'a ads wero
suiciy designed to help you!
BYALBANYCQNCERN
uuu lm l ias
Frederick llobbs lias returned from
Whiting, where he has spent a few days.
- -Mr. and Mis. C. A. Hat ton have gona
1 1 Rutland for a few days. The Middle
bury high school baseball team, which
had a successful year and which claim's
the State cjhamplnnshlp, have received two
challenges, one from Fal-fax and tlio
ither from Johnson, tt Is understood tha
the two gnmes will be played, but th
dates have not been announced. Miss
Ellen Kidder has returned from the Hur
llngtein Huslnesa College, wheie she has
spent a few months, and will stay for a
while with her paients, Mr. and Mi 1.
Oeorgo Kidder. George M. Rommell,
chief of the bureau of animal industrj
at Washington, 13. C, who has been in
tmvn for a few days, has returned to his
home. Miss liessio Glpson, who wns
called here several weeks ago by the Ill
ness of her mother, Mrs. George Glpson,
has returned to her duties at the Metro
politan hospital at Ularkwell's Island,
N. Y. Wlnlleld Huntley, a student at
Trinity College, Durham, N. C, has ar
rived to spend tile summer with his
ptrents. At tho regular meeting of th
. M. C. A., Mr. Greene resigned as
piesldent, nnd Mr. Duncan of the class
of 1017, Mlddlobury high school, was
elected to till out the unexpired yeai. A
literary program was carried out. Mr.
and Mrs. Clarence W. Page, who have
been visiting relative and on a byslness
trip for a week, have returned to Ausable
Forks, N. Y. Mrs. Royal E. Bentley, a
former lesldent of Rlpton. but for many
years of Rutland, Is In town for a couple
of weeks, lohn I'. Smith nf Illnghamto'i,
N. Y., George N. Hln hard of Shoreham
nnd .tared Mallory of Claremont, N. H.,
are In town for a short time Homer
Kendall, who hns lien In Worcester,
Mass., to visit his brother, George, ro-
( Continued mi 1'iisre Inn,)
'MANY PRESENT AT
.INDUSTRIAL
T
Exercises Demonstrate Great
Change Wrought in School
16 Pupils Complete
Their Studies.
Vergenncs, June 14. A distinguished
company which included Gov. Charles
W. Gates of Franklin. Judgo J. E.
Weeks of Middlehury, chairman of the
State penal board, the Rev. D. J. O'Sul
llvan nf St. Albans, Representative
C. A. Powell of Richford and Superin
tendent N. II. Loukes nf the house of
correction at Rutland nnd Mayor C. E.
Stehblns were guests to-day of Superin
tendent and Mrs. J. N. Rarss of the
Vermont industrial school at tho com
mencement exercises of tho school. A
class of IK boys and girls who had suc
cessfully completed the school course,
which for the tlrst time in the history
I nf the school includes llrst year high
school work, wero given their diplomas
by Judge Weeks. In addition to the
j students who have completed this
I course at the Industrial school, eight
others are students in the sophomore
nnd Junior classes of the Vergennes high
school and one Is a member ot the
graduating class of the high school,
Tho exercises this afternoon demon
strated In convincing fashion the great
change which has been wrought In the
school, changing It from a meie reform
atory to a school where boys and girls
i aie educated to become upright men
and women. Tho gift of complete eiiulp
ment for the school hospital by Mrs
J. E. Weeke, which has been needed
for some time, was announced to-day
The guests were met at tho station by
j Superintendent Bnrss and brought to the
school In automeiblles where thev wero
entertnined at dinner by Superintendent
and IMrs. Unrss. In addition to tho out-of-town
visitors a number of people from
j this city who have been Interested In the
work of the school attended the dinner
During the meal the school baud gave a
concert on the lawn near the administra
tion building. In the interim between the
dinner and the graduation exercises which
were held at two o'clock In the school
chapel, the visitors were conducted on a
tour of Inspection about tho grounds,
where everything was found to be in ex
cellent condition.
Tho entire school which now num
bers 2SU boys and girls attended the
graduation exercises which wero pre
ceded by a tine hand concert A long
nnd difficult program of recitations
nnd songs wns well rendered by the
participants and the e-erclses were
opened with the Lord's Prayer and
closed by a Hag salute by ttie mem
bers of tho graduating class and tho
singing of America by the audience.
Tho dnmlnnnt note nf the entire aft-
ernoon's proceedings was the deter
mination of the children to become
good American citizens The class
chose as Its hero, Abraham Lincoln
and Its motto, "Onward is our aim."
Brief addresses weio made by Governor
Gates, Judge Weeks and Father O'Sulli
van. Judge Weeks emphasized the excep
tional work of Superintendent Barss and
pleaded for larger opportunities for tho
boys and girls of the school, whom he
complimented on their earnest efforts.
Ciovernor Gates also complimented tho
school on tho success of tho exercises and
dwelt upon tlio importance of dally work
In character building. He told tho chll
dren to light linrd against wrong and to
strive to measure up to tho expectations
of their friends. Father O'Sulllvan's
speech went straight to the hearts of his
young listeners ns ho told of his and other
friends love for them. Ho told them not
to place instruction above eduention, nnd
not to bo afraid or embarrassed when
they left tho school as tho people of tlio
State wero their friends, In closing ho
mado an eloquent plea for tho develop
ment of the spiritual welfare of tho ohil-
(lica
GOIENGEHEN
iRiiqqi anr n m i y
'I U J U I ft If J U 111 L I
20 MILES F
No Cessation from the Great
Drive of the Czar's Troops
1780 Officers and 120,000 Men
Captured in 11 Days.
LITTLE FIGHTING AT VERDUN
German Cruiser Sunk in Baltic
Lloyd Georffe Will Probably
Take Place of Late Earl Kitch
ener as British Minister of
War.
London, Juno 14. An advance of
about twenty miles by tho Russians,
who have Czornowitz as their objec
tive, is chronicled in the latest Rus
sian official communication. Having
previously crossed the Dniester river
and taken Horodenka nnd Zale Szczy
ky, the Russians have now driven
their men to the left bank of the river
Pruth and captured the town of Snla
tyn, which lies only twenty miles
northwest of the Rukowina capital
Nowhere on the front from the Prl
pet river in Russia and through Gall
cla to Rukowina, has there been any
cessation In the groat Russian offen
sive. Along the entire line, accord
ing to the Russian war office the Aus-tro-Hungarians
and Germans are be
ing elriven back, and the Russians are
still taking thousands of prisoners and
capturing guns, machine guns and war
supplies. In tho eleven days' drive
L750 officers and 120,000 men ana 130
guns and 200 machine, guns have been
captured.
On the lower end of the German line In
Russl,i, to the north of Baranovl'hl, the
Russians evidently have anticipated the
proposed German offensive and taken the
initiative into their own hands. Here,
after violent artillery preparation, they
seven times essayed to storm the Germa.t
lines. Berlin savs, however, that all their
efforts failed and thnt they were tepulsed
with heavy losses.
The fighting around Verdun has dwin
dled to Intermittent bombardments.
The German auxiliary cruiser Herz
mnnn has been attacked and sunk in tho
Baltic southeast of Stockholm by four
Russian torpedo boat destroyers, accord
ing to Berlin. Reports from Sweden and
Denmnrk concerning the fight say that
It was between Russian torpedo craft and
a German auxiliary cruiser, some torpedo
boats and armed trawlers which were
convoying German merchantmen.
In addition to the auxiliary cruiser and
a German destroyer, 12 merchantmen aro
believed to have been sunk.
It ls anticipated In London that Dnvld
Lloyd Georco will take the place of tho
lato Earl Kitchener as British secretarv
fur war In case Mr. Lloyd George ar
cepts tho portfolio, it is not believed that
ho will g've up entirely his present duties
ns minister of munitions.
SHELBUBNEMH KILLED
Mnrk Tliiiniiinin, IS, In Crushed In 34
Tun Ormcl Slide Tvio (II hers
Injured.
Shtlburne. June li. Mark Thomp
son, nn lS-year-ohl youth of this vil
lage, was killed this morning when a
slide of gravel In the Sheridan gravel
pit at Shelburne Falls crushed him
against the team which he was load
ing. Death resulted from injuries to
his lungs, his chest being crushed in.
Fred Steady and Roy Frcsne, older
men who were working with him, wero
covered In the slide, but wero dug1 out
and, while they received serious in
juries, aro expected to live. The three
men were hauling gravel from the pit
for use on tho State road and It is es
timated that about 30 tons of earth
slid on to them. Mr. Steadv, who Is i0
years of age, was found to have had
both ankles broken and was taken to
the Mary Fletcher hospital In Bur
lington. It ls also feared he may havn
received internal Injuries. Mr Fresne
had ono arm broken and received In
juries to ills back.
Young Thompson, a Junior In high
school, would have reached tho ISth
anniversary of His birthday on Satur
day. Ho wns a youth of excellent
traits nnd admired by all who knew
him. Besides his parents ho Is sur
vived by a sister and brother
FIRST HONORS IN STATE
SHOOTING TOURNAMENT
II. M. llnrelny ot llnrre nnd Dr. C, II.
Ilurr of Montpelier Best Miirkaincn.
Montpelier, Juno II. Douglass M, Bar
clay of Barre and Dr. Clarence 11 Burr
of Montpelier, members nf the local
gun club, won first honors In the annual
tournament of tlio state Trapshootlns
association, held yesterday and to-day
nt Curtis park. Barclay won tho Inter
state asioclatlon championship event
with a score of 01 out nf 100, nnd the
handlcnp prlzo for amateurs, a sliver
trophy, given by the board of trado,
with n score of 154. Dr. Burr was soc
ond In the inter-Stato event, with N,
and was high general average for the
shoot, with 372 out of 400 In the two
days, G M. Wheeler, a professional,
was second, with all, Barclay third,
with 302, and Harry Moulton nf Mont
poller fourth, with 3e!. There woro 44
entered in tho Inter-Stato event, flva
bolng professionals.
On every shopping Hat, the nd-reading
Jluiu" cial.'aa profits In ravines.
fill
blOWINA CAPITAL
