K41
'4I
$
si
..
$
iSlSwSf^S
VI. NUMBER
The Devils Lake Chautauqua session promises to be the biggest
and best in its history of twenty-four years. The management is
putting forth an extra effort to make it the most attractive place
in the whole northwest for the sixteen days beginning July 1st.
A large crew of men are already at work cleaning tit) and beau
tifying every nook and corner, so that when the session opens it
will be a most attractive place. The greatest array of talent which
has ever visited any Chautauqua has been secured and the people
will attend this year are promised many things far beyond their
expectations. We cannot give you here a complete program, but
just an inkling of what you may expect in the way of talent. We
will have Prof. Vincent, of the University of Minnesota, with us
again,and those who listened to him last year will come for miles
to hear him again. He is one of the greatest platform speakers
on the American stage today, and will bring to the people of the
Lake Region a message worth hearing.
FIRST DISTRICT W.
G.T.U. CONVENTION
AT CRARYJUNE 21-23
The twenty-second annual convention
•fth First District of the W. C. T. U.,
will be held in Cr&ry June 21, 22, and 23.
The consecration services which are an
Important feature, will be held on Wed
nesday afternoon at two o'clock.
The reports of the executives, corres
ponding secretary, and treasurer will be
.given and much interest Is centered
ground the address on "The A. B. C., of
the W. C. T. U., Work." which will be
•delivered by the president. On the ev
ening of the first day, the addresses of
welcome will be given by Rev! Atcheson
speaking
4for
the churches, Attorney F.
R. Stevens for the city, and Meadames
John Strand and P. C. McLeod forthe
union. The response will' be madaby
Hiss. Ethel 'Halcrow of GrandForks,
state secretary, of the Young People's
branch.. *.
Thursday' morning the department
presidents will discuss plans and meth
ods of work and Mrs. Day of. Preston
wiilreada paper on "The Union Signo
Its'Valu^in the Home and in the Un
ion." Rev. Atcheson will talk on "The
Xotftl a»4 Physical Need of the Sab
fca«i,f«id Mrs. C. Lunde of Lakota on
"Plea for Babies." The memorial ser
vice will follow with Mrs. Maggie Mar
kell of Rolla leading.
Thursday afternoon the reports of the
various unions of the district will be
given as follows: Bartlett, Bisbee, Can-
Aj.
Clyde, Churchs Fe^ry, Calvin, Devils
Lake, Dep-rick. Lawton, Preston, Rolla,
Bock Lake. Sarles, St.Johns, anil. Web
ster.
"An hour with the Loyal Temper­
Then there is the John Howard Quintette, who will entertain
with musical numbers. This musical organization is recognized
as one of the greatest in the country. Then there is Frank At
kinson, another noted speaker, who will be here to deliver some of
his famous and most interesting lectures. Elma Myrkland, lec
turer and cartoonist, who will entertain in her cartoon and land
scape drawing. The McPhail trio, who has pleased the Chautau
qua audiences before, and need no introduction. They are high
class entertainers and it will afford the patrons much pleasure to
know that they are to be with us again this year. Then there is
the Famous Fergurson Dixie Jubilee singers. This company has
traveled and pleased the public for more than twenty years, and
we consider the Chautauqua management very fortunate indeed
in securing their services this year. Another prominent man who
will be here is E. T. Mathes, the noted Child Welfare Lecturer, who
will give a series of lectures with plans and purposes. Another
noted speaker will be Stanley L. Krebs, who has traveled the world
•ver. He is an original thinker and a man of great personality,
and his lectures are sure to be both instructive and pleasing.
Prof. Ray Sweetmen, who is another well knowni Speaker will
give some sterioptican lectures. Mr. SWeetman is secretary of "the
Y. M. C. A., at Fargo, and has gained an enviable reputation for
his effective work in this institution.
This is only a small part of the high class talent Which has been
secured for the sixteen days. Besides this there will be three
band concerts each day, and the boating and bathing facilities
have been enlarged so that this will be one of the many pleasures
•f the assembly. During the session there will be ball games by
the fastest teams of this section of the state, and from start to
finish there will be one continuous feast of the best that can be
secured.
One of the features this year wil be the boys and girls camp,
and under their direction considerable time will be devoted to the
matter of dealing with sports and recreation for the boys and girls.
While every day will be a busy one the great day of all will be
the Fourth of July, when a special effort will be made to make this
the greatest day of all. Prominent speakers will be there and the
auditorium program will be the best ever, while the ball game,
boating and bathing, along with several water sports will add much
to the occassion. In the evening there will be a great display of
fireworks, including many pieces which have never been seen be
fore. One of the features of the session will be the moving picture
shows each afternoon and evening. Everybody likes to see the
movies, and the latest and best reels have been contracted for so
you can rest assured that you will see many good picture shows
during the assembly.
Don't miss this season's Chautauqua, or you are going to miss
the best vacation you could possibly have. If there is anything
you wish to know' just address Secretary Gilbertson and he will
answer promptly.
—o
ance Legion" will be conducted by the
state L. T. L. secretary. Miss Gladys
Powell, of Cando, Mrs. A. G. Churchward
of Devils Lake will give an address on
"Safe-Guarding the Morals of Our
Children" and Rev. Albert Torbet of
Devils Lake on "The Prohibition Situa
tion in Our State."
Thursday evening's program will con
cist of a young people's oratorical gold
medal contest with a musical program
in connection. The contestants are from
Cando, Rolla, St. Johns, Churchs Ferry,
Crary and Calvin.
Friday morning will be given over to
a general discussion of plans and meth
ods, reports of committees and election
of officers. Delegates from the local
union are Mesdames H. B. Mitchell, C.
E. Stinson and A. G. Churchward.
SO YOU HOW THAT
Rural sanitation is a health protection,
to the city dweller?
It's foolish to educate a boy and then
let him die of typhoid fever?
The U. S. Public Health Service issues
a free bulletin on the summer care of
infants?
SSxercise in the garden is better than
exerctpe in the gymnasium?
Clean water, clean food, clean h«UKt
make clean healthy American citizens.
The State of California has reduOedits
typhoid death rate 70 per cent in the"
past ten years? :r*
Hats are -Hie most expensive animal*
which
It is estimated that the averace ma
nure pile will breed tM.MO flies per ton
swunanac
1"
aoso
noaraaova nr ms.
The production of sulphuric .fecld In
the United States in 1915 was $.868,152
short tons, expressed in terms of 60 de
gree acid, valued at 129,869,080, and
there was an output of 189,795 short tons
of oleum of fuming acids of different
strengths valued at $2,787,971, making
a total of 4,057,947 short tons, valued at
$32,657,051.
These figures, which are made public
by the United States Geological Survey,
and which were compiled by TV. C. Pha
len, include so-called by-product acid,
or acid produced at copper and zinc
smelters. The production of acid from
this source in 1915, was 1,056,830 short
tons, expressed in trems of 50 degrees
acid, valued at $7,042,126, and included
also 59,189 short tons of oleum of dif
ferent strengths, valued at $579,115.
The total production is an increase as
compared with 1914, due to an increase
in the production of acid ofthe stronger
grades—60 degrees and higher. The out
put of by-product acid in 1915 also
showed an increase as compared with
1914. Expressed in value of products
these increases have been large. In pre
ceding years the Survey has reduced the
different strengths of acid, including the
stronger grades to 50 degrees Baume
whenever sufficient data were available
for this conversion. The maunfacture
of this stronger acid is becoming more
important, owing to the demand from
the explosives and war munitions indus
tries, and in the statistics for 1915, for
the first time, this acid is classified sep
arately.
The price of sulphuric acid varied
widely during 1915. Producers who had
previously entered into long-time con
tracts sold acid at prices much below
those now current, especially during the
last part of the year. The trade in
strong acids was active, on account of
the demand from the explosives and war
munitions industries, but this demand
came only after the first quarter of the
year and was very strong only durinjr
the last half of the ytar. Before that
time some acid plants were shut down.
Average values are therefore much be
low those which ruled on the market at
the close of the year.
NORT|[ DAKOTA,
znmmT
DETXUS LUa.CO
CABBIES
Lake
KE
PRIZE
530, U. C.
AT MIVOT.
or*
The annual convention of U. C. T., of
Minnesota and North rkkota was held
at Minot last week i»nd a laree number
or the Knights of th$ Crip were there
to enjoy themselves "{There were trav
ellers from everp pan of both states
and a most interesting meeting was held.
Devils Lake Council No. 530 was there
in force and when .the parade took place
the boys from this city made the best
showing and were, awarded the prize.
This prize was iayiar|re-silver loving cup.
It makes the local travellers feel prett'
good, and really., gobs to show that De
vils Lake is still on... the map.
KOUHDIVO- TTP WBTBAV CATTLE.
stock commission office .has an inspector
at every market point, and he takes '.hi.
brand of every anima! unloaded fron.
Montana. Ho also finds out what the
commission houses pay for each animal.
Of the 1234 head, only !)7 remained un
accounted for, but the ofiiee hopes to
find the rightful owners for a large per
centage of these.
From Montana last fall SMtO.AOO worth
of est ray cattle were shipped to marke'.,
and because of the oljce of the State
Board of Stock -Commissioners. $87,000
of the returns have been paid to the [Year
rightful owners. An attempt will be 11913
made to find the men to whom the re- '"101!
maining $3,090 belongs, by advertising 1915
an est ray list. If they are not found. 'Average
the money will be placed in tlie stat- I The Income is figured on six cents a
treasury, to the credit of the est ray fund pound for the grain in weight. The cost
Under the present system, all est l-ays I includes in terest on the investment,
are rounded up in the faJi and shippeci {fencing and necessary labor and the pro
to market along with oilier eat tie from fit is the difference between the income
the ranges. At the round-ups. owner*
could not be found for 123-1 head. The
"v.
'•'W.
JOHN C. ADAMSON
of Devils Lake, Candidate for
Judge of the Supreme Court
xr biographical Sketch—Born, January 4, 1872. First came to
North Dakota in 1393. Was associated with Cowan & McClory and
McClory, Barnett & Adamson, at Devils Lake. In 1901-2 was pri
vate secretary to Congressman Marshall at the time when North
Dakota was one congressional district. In 1904 removed to Botti
neau where he was associated with Judge Goss and for a period of
was a member of the firm of Noble, Blood & Adamson,
which nm was engaged in practice at Bottineau from 1905 to 1911,
and at both Bottineau and Minot until 1913. In 1913 he removed
to Devils
where he formed a partnership with ex-Judge Cow­
an, which firm still exists under the name of Cowan & Adamson.
John X!. Adamson, the subject of the above sketch, is well
favorably known to the peopteof North Dakota, more especially in
the north half of the state where he has resided since locating in
tne state. Mr. Adamson is a candidate, for a position upon the
Supreme Court bench at the primary election to be held on June
^otn and his candidacy has been well received by the voters gener
ally and endorsed by a large number of attorneys engaged iri active
practice who regard him as a good, careful industrious lawyer and
one who would, if nominated and elected. periorm the duties of a
judge of the supreme court with entire satisfaction to the litfeants
in that court.—Devils Lake Journal.
BSTUBBS ntOH PASTTTU.
In 1913 one field on .the L&rimore de
monstration farm was pastured with six
Angus steers. They weighed 2700 lbs.,
when turned into the pasture on May 29.
On October 31st, they weighed 3400 lbs.
They gained 700 pounds on four acres of
land. In 1914 another field which was
sown t.o timothy and clover with barley
in 1912 and cut for hay inl913 was pas
tured with four registered Angus nelfers
commencing on June 11. One more hei
fer was added July 16th and one was re
moved on August 3rd. The pasture
would have carried one or two more ani
mals to good advantage. The animals
were weighed out on October 23rd and
they made a gain of 410 pounds altho
the season was not a favorable one for
pastu:-e due to droughty conditions.
In 1915 on this same farm had a field
in timothy and clover which was seeded
with barley as a nurse crop in 1913. In
the spring of 1911 the stand of hay ap
peared a iitlle thin. Barley, timothy and
clover was reseedrd without plowing an-,
a very fine stand was secured, the barley
being cut for grain. On May 23rd, 1915
five head of Angus heifers weighing 2330
pounds were put on this four acre pas
ture. They were taken off on October
26. and weighed 3370 pounds, a gain of
1040 pounds or 260 pounds an acre.
Below is a table showing the results
of three years of pasturing land in ro
tation on the Larimore demonstration
farm.
Income
9.04
12.83
20.45
14.1.0
Cost
7.49
8.02
S.53
SDAY. JUNE 15, 1916 INTER- ^LUME XXXIV. NUMBER 2
Profit
1.55
4.81
11.92
6.09
S.01
and the cost. The land in pasture is be
ling improved in fertility as it is the
.place manure, from the rest of the farm.
is applied, weeds are destroyed, the soil
is filled with roots and humus, and the
mechanical condition of the soil is im
proved. At the same time a net profit.
of
SG.00 an acre was secuerd which com
pares very well with the average small
grain crop.—W. R. Porter, North Dakota
Experiment Station.
The entire main line of the Great
Northern through North Dakota w-.s
covered last week by members of the
Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Assc
ciation 011 their way to the Pacific coast
on a special train of twelve cars. The
actual start was made at Grand Forks
as the part of the trip through Minne
sota was made at night, and the first
stop was made at Grand Forks, in that
city the visitors spent about three houts
and were given an opportunity to inspect
the city and meet the business men.
Stops were made at the principal
towns along the route and everywhere
the visitors were cordially greeted. Dur
ing most of the trip a light rain was
falling, and this made necessary some
changes in the local programs, but the
rain in no manner dampened the spirits
of the tourists or of those whom they
visited, for it was recognized that the
shower was timely and would benefit
the territory over which it fell.
The Minneapolis tourists are repre
sentative business men of the Minheso' .-•
metropolis and their trip was for the
purpose of getting into closer personal
touch with the people of the great north
west with which a great share of their
business is transacted, and with the
country in which they live. Expres
sions from many of the visitors told of
the confidence existing in trade circles
in the present and future of the north
west, and in the permanency of the pros
perity which is now so marked in this
sectio 1.
On Friday, June 23, there will be a
oelo'oration at Hampden, the same to be
lK-ld under the auspices of the Farmers
Club of Hampden. All the necessary ar
rangements have been made for a big
time and there will be big crowd pres
ent if the weather is good. There wlii bo
p-peatfpt^ Jm-t
ry go round for the children, "Free cof
fee, "will be served, and those coming
should bring along a lunch. The Farm
ers Club of Hampden, is an organiza
tion of the farmers tributary to the vil
lage and they arc a live bunch, and are
doing much good for the community.
They have their own officers and are
very active and those who attend this
picnic can rest assured that there wi.'l
be something doing all the time. Rollo
F. Hunt and E. H. Griffin will speak
and there will be music by a quartette.
The Great Northern Railway have de
cided to extend their branch in AV'illiams
county from "Wildrose west to Grenora
and the work of grading will begin at
once and be completed in time to handle
this fall's crop. They have platted sev
eral new towns, and the sale of lots will
be held this month. The sale will take
place at each township, and the usual
terms will prevail. In this issue the ad
vertisement of the sale oftliese lots ap
pear and if you are interested look it
over as it gives the dates of sale and
names each town where the sale will
take place.
E
NEXT WEEK
There will be something doing all the
time in Ramsey county next week. On
the 21st Gollmar's circus will be at Ed
more and on the 22nd it will be in this
city. On the 23rd the Farmers picnic
will be pulled off at Hampden and on the
24th Crary Day will be celebrated. There
will be much doing at these places on
those days, and if the politicians expect
to attend all of them it will keep them
pretty busy for the most of the week.
»aTT.«OAP ACTIVITY.
the Midland Continental, which has
been building Its North and South line
as rapidly as circumstances would per
mit, Has completed arrangements to en
ter the business district of Jamestown,
and will erect a new depot on property
in the city which It has just acquired.
The excellent crops of last year, and tfce
good prospects foi" the present season
are making business for all roads la the
state.
Reports recived by the North Dakota
Devilopment League Press Bureau at
Grand Forks indicate that there is to be
considerable railroad activity In North
Dakota this year. It is expected that
the extension of the Great Northern
from New Rockford to Lewiston, Mon.,
will be completed this year, and a re-.
port from Fessenden is to the effect that Panama, June 11.—The steamer City
the extension will pass through that city
Washington. D. C., June 8th.l916.—
A summary of the June crop report for
the State of Nirth Dakota and for the
United States, as compiled by the Beau
reau of Crop estimates (and transmit
ted through the Weather bureau,) U. S.
Departure of Agriculture, is as follows:
All WhMt
State:—June 1 forecast, 79,400,000
bushels production last year (final esti
mate), 151,970.000 bushels.
United States:—June 1 forecast, 715,
000,000 bushels: production last year
(final estimate),1,011,505,000 bushels.
Oats
State:—June 1 forecast, 70.SOO.OOO bu.
production last year (final estimate),
1.510,362,000 bushels.
Barlay
State—June 1 forecast, 82,900,000 bu.
production last year, (final estimate),
44,800,000 bushels.
United States:—June 1 forecast, 189,
000,000 bushels production, last year,
final estimate, 237,009,000 bushels.
Rye.
State:—June 1 forecast, 3,390,000 bu.
production last year, final estimate, 2,
700,000 bushels.
United States:—June 1 forecast, 43,
500,000 bushels production last year, fi
nal estimate, 49,190,000 bushels.
Bay
State:—June 1 condition 91, compared
with the eight year average of 90.
Uniited States:—June 1 condition 90.3,
compared with the eight-year average of
7.G.
Pasture.
State:—June 1 condition 88, compared
with the ten-year average of 90.
United States:—June 1 condition 93.4,
compared with the ten-year average of
89.0
Prices
The first price given below is the av
erage on June 1 this year,, andthe sec
ond average on June 1 last year.
1!
^1,
.m
if
•v
1
State:—Wheat, 102 and 139 cents per
bushel. Corn, 7S, and 68. Oats 33 and
and SC.30
United States—Wheat 100 and 131.5
cents per bushel. Corn 74.1 and 77.9 cts.
Oats i'i. 1 and 51.3 cents. Potatoes 98.8
and 50.8 cents. Hay $12.50 and $11.9b
per- ton. Cotton, 12.2 and 8.6 per pound.
£&gs, 19.0 and 16.6 cents per dozen.
Printed and distributed by the Weath
er B'.'n.iuj at Bifctfiavck,
r, T,.
yqoth is sehtebcbd to
QBE DAT TBBW XV PSZSOZT
In Kansas City, Mo., one day last week
fnthony Zaegar 17 years old, was sen
tenced to spend one day at the Kansas
State Penitentiary at Lansing, by J. H.
Brady, police judge of Kansas City.
Kan., in the hope that the experience
wil save him from becoming a perma
nent resident there.
Zager has been arrested twenty times
in two years, the police officials say. He
was before the court on a charge of
stealing wire.
"You aer headed as straight for the
Penitentiary as any person I ever saw.
What ought I to do with you? Judge
Brady asked the youth.
Zager hung his head. "I don't know,'
he replied.
"I want to save you if I can," said the
Judge. "I can think of but one thing.
I'm going to send you to Lansing today.
I'll pay your expenses. I want you to
see what is before you if you don't
brace up. I'll give you a letter to the
warden of the prison asking him to take
you through the mines, the shops, the
ceil rooms and all other departments.
Are you willing to accept that sen
tense?"
"Yes. sir," said Zager, who took the
next car for Lansing.
CROP PROSPECTS
ARE SPLENDID
While the spring was late and conse
quently there was some late seeding of
grain, the crop prospects in this ..art of
the state are splendid. All grain haa
come up nicely and the recent rains
and warm weather has been all that
could be asked to bring the growing
crops along. With plenty of rain for
next sixty days, we predict that Ram
seycounty will harvest a bumper crop.
MXTSDXBS CHXX.S XB
ATTACK OB FAKat
Mohall N. D., June 11.—Early todoy
T. H. Druen attempted to slay his wife
and children with a revolver. He fired
four times when the mechanism failed.
He had killed his 4-year-old child,
Hattie, and beat his wife severely be
fore help arrived. He was arrested and
coniessed. He will be taken to Minrt
for sentence tomorrow.
ot
PICKS UP
BOAT OP BOABOl
Para, which arrived here today from
San Francisco, had on board a life-boat
and one dead seaman from the American
steamer Roanoke, which founded 139
miles south of 8an Etanclsco In May.
Attorney E. F. FJynn, returned hnnrai
Saturday from Fkirbault, Minn., when*
he irent .on the sad mission of attending
the funeral of his father. The war
friends of Mr. Jlynn will
leam of his bereavement.
be «orry t*
kr'
