VOL. XXI NO. 52.
mucus
BY
FAIRBANKS FOR SECOND PLACE
—ROOSEVELT NAMED BY
PROGRESSIVES
Coliseum, Chicago, June 10.—
Charles Hughes was chosen the re
publican standardbearer by the re
publican national convention this af
ternoon. His vote was 949 1-2 out of
a possible 987 ballots and the selec
tion was made unanimous immediate
ly after the close of the ballot.
Charles Warren Fairbanks of Indiana
was nominated for vice president.
Colonel Roosevelt, the nearest com
petitor of Justice Hughes, polled only
18 1-2 votes. The nomination came
on the third ballot of the convention
and the first taken at today's session.
At 2:01 p. m. the convention ad
journed sine die.
Almost simultaniously the Progres
sive national convention named Roose
velt as their leader.
Fairbanks Accepts Second Place Call
Indianapolis, June 10.—Charles W.
Fairbanks tonight issued this state
ment accepting the republican nomi
nation for the vice presidency:
"I was not a candidate for the vice
presidency nomination and requested
the chairman of the Indiana delega
tion to withdraw my name if pre
sented. The nomination was made
and the convention adjourned before
my dispatch was received. I feel it
my duty, under the circumstances, to
accept the commission which the
party so generously and unanimously
placed in my hands.*'
In reply to a telegram of congratu
lations which he sent former Justice
Hughes, Mr. Fairbanks received the
following.
"Your telegram is deeply appre
ciated. I heartily congratulate you
upon our nomination. It is most
gratifying to me.
Charles E. Hughes."
Roosevelt's Declination
Oyster Bay, June 10.—Colonel
Theodore Roosevelt tonight informed
the progressive party that he cannot
accept the nomination as their candi
date. Roosevelt stated that he de
sired his conditional refusal to run be
place din the hands of the progres
sive national committee while the
committee went over the statement
of Charles E. Hughes, nominated by
the republicans. The colonel asked
that the committee decide whether it
be best for the country for Hughes
to be elected, and if it did so consider,
treat the colonel's refusal as definite.
The statement follows:
"I am very grateful for the
honor you confer upon me by
nominating me as president. I
cannot accept it at this time. I
do not know the attitude of the
candidate of the republican pary
toward the vital questions of the
day. Therefore, if yoa desire an
immediate decision, I must decline
the nomination. But if you pre
fer it, I suggest that my condi
tional refusal to run be placed in
the hands of the progressive na
tional committee. If Haghes'
statements, when he makes them,
shall satisfy the committee that
it is for the interest of the coun
ry he be elected, they can act
accordingly and treat my refusal
as definite. If they are not satis
fied, they can so notify the pro
gressive party, and at the same
time they can confer with me and
then determine on whatever action
we may severally deem appropri
ate to meet the needs of the
country.
—Theodore Roosevelt.
Washington, June 10.—Justice
Hughes, late today, sent a telegram
Ito Chairman W. G. Harding, of the
republican national convention, for
mally accepting the_ republican nom
ination for the presidency.
At the same time it was announced
that the justice had resigned as as
sociate justice of the supreme court
of the United States.
Justice Hughes sent his resignation
by messenger to President Wilson.
Resignation Is Accepted
Justice Hughes' letter of resigna
tion, sent to the White House by mes
senger, contained one brief sentence.
It said:
"June 10, 1916.
"To the President:
"I hereby resign the office of
associate justice of the supreme
court of the United States.
"I am, Sir, respectfully yours,
"Charles E. Hughes."
President Wilson a short time later
accepted the resignation.
President Wilson read Justice
Hughes' formal statement very care
fully but did not comment. Secretary
Tumulty said it was weak.
Place Not Sought
Following is the telegram to Chair
man Harding:
"Mr. Chairman and delegates: 1
have not desired the nomination. I
have wished to remain on the bench.
But in this critical period of our na
tional history I recognize that it is
your right to summon and that it is
my paramount duty to respond. You
speak at a time of national exigency,
transcending merely partisan consid
erations. You voice the demand for
a dominant, thorough-going Ameri
can with firm protective upbuilding
policies essential to our peace and
security, and to that call, in this crisis,
I cannot fail to answer with the pledge
of all this is in me to the service of
the country. Therefore, I accept the
nomination.
Would Uphold America
"I stand for the firm and unflinch­
St«t« Historical So®
ing maintenance of all the rights of
American citizens on land and sea. I
neither impugn motives nor underesti
mate difficulties. But it is most re
grettably true that in our foreign
relations we have suffered incalculably
from the weak and vacillating course
which has been taken with regard to
Mexico—a course lamentably wrong
with regard to both our rights and our
duties. We interfered without con
sistency and, while seeking to dic
tate when we were not concerned, we
utterly failed to appieciate and dis
charge our plain duty to our own
citizens.
"At the outset of the administra
tion, the high responsibilities of our
diplomatic intercourse with foreign
nations were subordinated to a con
ception of partisan requirements, and
we presented to the world a humili
ating spectacle of inaptitude. Belated
efforts have not availed to recover the
influence and prestige so unfortunate
ly sacrificed and brave words have
been stripped of their force by in
decision.
Is for Preparedness
"I desire to see our diplomacy* re
stored to its best standards and to
have these advanced to have no sac
rifices of the national interest so
partisan expediencies to have the
first ability of the country always at
its command here and abroad in dip
lomatic intercourse to maintain firm
ly our rights under international law,
insisting steadfastly upon all our
rights as mutual and fully perform
ing our international obligations and
by the clear correctness and justness
of our position and our manifest abil
ity and disposition to sustain them,
to dignify our place among the na
tions.
"I stand for an Americanism that
knows no ulterior purpose, for a
patriotism that is single and com
plete. Whether native or naturalized,
of "whatever race or creed we have
but one country and we not for an in
stant tolerate any division of alle
giance. I believe in making prompt
provision to secure absolutely our na
tional security.
"I believe in preparedness not only
entirely adequate for our defense with
respect to numbers and equipment in
both army and navy, but with all thor
oughness to the end that in each
branch of the service there may be the
utmost efficiency under the most com
petent administrative heads. We are
devoted to ideals of honorable peace.
Adequate Defense Needed
"We wish to promote all wise and
practicable measures for the just set
tlement of international {disputes. In
view of our abiding ideals there is no
danger of militarism in this country.
We have no policy of aggression, no
lust for territory, no zeal for strife.
It is this spirit that we demand ade
quate provision for national defense
and we condemn the inexcusable neg
lect that has been shown in this mat
ter of first national importance. We
must have the strength which self
respect demands, the strength of an
efficient nation ready for every emer
gency.
Test When War Ends
"Our preparation must be indus
trial and economic as well as military.
Our severest tests will come after the
war is over. We must make a fair
and wise readjustment of the tariff
in accordance with cound protective
principle, to insure our economic in
dependence and to maintain American
standards of living. We must con
serve the just interests of labor,
realizing that in democracy, patriot
ism and national strength must be
rooted in evenhand justice.
"In preventing, as we must._ unjust
discrimination and monopolistic prac
tices, we must still be zealous to as
sure the foundations of honest busi
ness.
"Particularly should we seek the
expansion of foreign trade. We must
not throttle American enterprise here
or abroad, but rather promote it and
take pride in honorable achievements.
Upholds Civil Service
"We must take up the serious prob
lems of transportation, of interstate
and foreign commerce in a sensible
and candid manner and provide an
enduring basis for prosperity by the
intelligent use of the constitutional
powers of congress so as adequately
to protect the public on the one hand
and, on the other to conserve the es
sential instrumentalities of progress.
"I stand for the principles of our
civil service laws. In every depart
ment of government the highest effi
ciency must be insisted upon. For all
laws and programs are vain without
efficient and impartial administration.
"I cannot, within the limits of this
statement, speak upon all the subjects
that will require attenion. I can only
say that I fully endorse the platform
you have adopted.
"I deeply appreciate the responsi
bility you impose. I should have been
to have had that responsibility placed
upon another. But I shall undertake
to meet it, grateful for the confidence
you express. I sincerely trust that
all former differences may be forgot
ten and that we may have united ef
fort in a patriotic realization of our
national need and opportunity.
"I have resigned my judicial office
and am ready to devote myself unre
servedly to the campaign.
—"Charles E. Hughes."
Wilson Replies to Letter
The president sent this reply to
Justice Hughes' letter:
"Dear Mr. Justice Hughes: am in
receipt of your letter of resignation
and feel constrained to yield to your
desire. I therefore accept your res
ignation as justice of the supreme
court of the United States, to take
effect at once. Sincerely yours,
—"Woodrow Wilson.''
The letter was sent to Justice
Hughes by messenger.
BURDICK "SPECIAL" TO CIRCUIT THE STATE
ill LEAVE WILLISTOH MORHMG
"The Burdick Special" is now assured and Monday morning, June 19th
the train will leave Williston for a tour of the state, which will include a stop
at practically every station on the main line of the Great Northern and North
ern Pacific railway. The schedule has not as yet been completed but it will
be about as follows: The train will leave Williston at 9 o'clock Monday morn
ing carrying about 100 men from this city, and accompanied by the Williston
Band. The train will stop for ten to thirty minutes at the towns between
here and Minot where it will probably remain over night. The next day all
towns from Minot to Grand Forks will be visited and the second night will
be spent at Grand Forks. Leaving there in the morning Fargo will be reach
ed about 11 o'clock and the train will stop there for perhaps two hours, de
parting over the Northern Pacific for Jamestown and intermediate points.
The third night will probably be spent at Jimtown. The train will reach Bis
marck toward noon of the next day and will spend an hour or so there and at
Mandan, proceeding to Dickinson where the fourth night will be spent.
L. B. HANNA
With the approach of the primary
election June 28th the people through
out Williams county and the state are
taking a keener interest in the selec
tion of candidates to go before the
fall election. And of all offices for
which candidates are to be nomin
ated, none is more important than that
of United States Senator. By the
senators and congressmen we send to
Washington we are very largely judg
ed through the country. And upon
them determines whether or not our
state is properly represented wheth
er those matters of vital importance
to the people of North Dakota receive
the attention they deserve and de
mand. North Dakota never sent a
more able, more honorable, more effi
cient hard working representative to
Washington than L. B. Hanna. Not
only did he represent us there with
great credit, but early and late did
he work for the best interests of the
state and its people, individually and
collectively. Who is there in the state
who ever wrote L. B. Hanna a letter
asking his help or support in any
matter but what he received an an
swer as fast as the mails could bring
it. Ever and always has he given his
close personal attention to tne thou
sands of matters that have been
brought to his attention by the farm
ers, the homesteaders, the business
men, the old soldiers and the people
generally of his state. No more loyal,
patriotic citizen of North Dakota ever
represented its people in public office.
His life work has been ana now is the
building up of North Dakota and the
best interests of its people. To do
this he has given most freely and wil
lingly of his time his ability and his
money. No more unfair, unmanly,
untruth was ever publicly or private
ly stated, than when Senator P. J.
McCumber in his recent speech at
Williston insinuated that Governor
Hanna in this present campaign is
using against him, an army ox 200
state employees and $200,000 of the
states money. Any such statement
or insinuation is utterly and abso
lutely false and no one knows that
better than Mr. McCumber himself.
Rather than bring him support, it dis
gusted his hearers as being un
worthy of any man who represented
or aspired to represent the state ar
rived at casting reflections upon the
governor it proved to be a boomorang
for Mr. McCumber, being a man who
claims sufficient knowledge of North
Dakota affairs to represent the state
should know that no governor has the
During the forenoon the train will reach Beach and from there will re
turn to Williston by way of Glendive, Montana and up the Yellowstone valley.
Such an undertaking as this train, which is paid for entirely by friends
and admirers of Mr. Burdick in this city, is certainly a grand endorsement of
the esteem with which Mr. Burdick is regarded by his home folks. No cam
paign funds or money from any source other than the pocket of personal
admirers of our candidate for governor will be used, and this is surely an
compliment such as few men have ever received in the northwest. Some
men have been lionized and made of while they were as yet almost strangers
in the state, but in this case the man is a native of North Dakota and has
lived from boyhood to the present time here among the folks who are now his
most ardent supporters. Such an endorsement is founded on solid rock. The
strength of friendship for Mr. Burdick has been built up bv deeds more than
words—by a slow, steady growth year after year, in which he has been known
to do his duty both as a public official and as a private citizen. He is one of
those rare individuals for whom friendship and admiration strengthen as the
years of acquaintanship bring out his sterling qualities. His popularity in
North Dakota did not come over night, nor was it heralded in by "tooting of
horns" either by himself or his admirers.
It is anticipated that there will be many friends of Mr. Burdick join the
train at points all along the route and this has already been evidenced by
communications received from places along the route.
USHER L. BURDICK
North Dakota has a candidate for Governor of whom she may well feel
proud in Usher L. Burdick of this city. To the people of Williston sounding
the praises of our fellow townsman may seem unnecessary but there are so
many good things we know about him that may not be known to all the peo
ple of the state that we venture to call attention to some of them.
In the first place Burdick is every inch a man—he is a manly man
honest, energetic and trustworthy. His word is as good as his bond and he
has always stood for a square deal for everyone. Burdick was raised and
brought up on a farm and worked his own way through college. He knows
what it means to be poor and knows the hardships that settlers in a new state
have to deal with. He is a farmer now—a successful one, and a successful
stock raiser. He knows the things the farmer needs and can help get them.
Knowing the work on a farm and what a farmer needs we ask what more do
the farmers desire in a candidate for the Governorship. An honest, capable
farmer who knows how to farm and who will look after the interests of the
farmer.
We ask the voters of this state to look up his record. He made good as
Assistant County Superintendent of Schools. He made good as a member ot
the House of Representatives. He made good as Speaker of the House as
Lieutenant Governor and Presiding Officer of the Senate. Ask any farmer
who was in the Legislature when Burdick was in the House or was presiding
offlcw of the Senate and he will tell you that Burdick stood with the farmer
and saw that ,he had
a
square deal. Fe Ms been tried—you /know what he
will do—you know that Burdick stands for law enforcement. His record as
States Attorney shows that he was an earnest, fearless prosecutor. Alto
gether his qualifications make him an ideal candidate for Governor.
This is an agricultural state and the farming interests should be looked
after. Who can do this better than an actual,
WAIT FOR THE GREAT SUMMER CLEARING SALE STARTING SATURDAY, JUNE 24, AT THE BOSTON.
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
successful
man? Besides being a successful farmer and stockman Mr. Burdick knows
the legislative game his experience in the House and Senate pave him a
thorough knowledge of the law-making bodies of our state. His record in
public life invites the closest examination. An old legislator whose name is
well known to the people of this state says of Burdick's record in the House
as Speaker and Lieutenant Governor:
"You could always tell where Burdick stood. He was always for good
legislation and he was never afraid to say so and I predict that if Burdick is
elected governor the people will know just where Burdick stands and they
will stand right with him.'
The people of Williams County know that these statements about Bur
dick are true and as his friend and as friends of good government should cast
their vote for Usher L. Burdick, a man who is of, with and for the people.
farmer and stock­
appointment of more than 50 officers
all told of high and low degree. Of
these not more than a dozen are re
quired by their official duties to travel
over the state. And if there ever was
a time in the history of North Da
kota when state matters received
closer personal attention of all state
officers from the governor down—it is
right now. Never was the state's bus
iness in better shape than today under
the clean, efficient administration of
L. B. Hanna. Five times has he gone
before the people of the state and
always have they endorsed him. And
always has he respected—honored
their endorsement by giving them
in return the very best that was in
him. They have tried him out under
all measures and kinds of conditions
and he has stood the test to their
satisfaction. To nominate him now
as their candidate for United States
Senator is but to give him that final
endorsement he has earned by many
years of faithful service. That Gov
ernor Hanna will receive practically
the solid vote of this locality is pre
dicted on all sides. The people of
Williston and this community have
learned to know him and they propose
to show their full appreciation for
what he has done for this locality and
the entire state. L. B. Hanna, Re
publican nominee for United States
Senator will add strength, dignity and
efficiency to the entire ticket.
The office of the Commercial club
will occupy quarters in the City build
ing in the near future, where Secre
tary Morill will be prepared to handle
the business of the club and to wel
come those who may have occasion to
call.
Col. Dunn, who for several years
was a resident of Williston, passed
away at Rochester, N. Y., last Sunday
and will be buried at Ogdensburg in
that state. Mr. Richard Dunn was
the father of Mrs. Lynch, who was
formerly owner of the Great Northern
Cafe.
Hughes' Home Town 'Inside Out'
With Joy
Glen Falls, N. Y., June 10.—This
town, the birthplace of Justice
Charles E. Hughes, turned itself in
side out when its son's nomination was
announced. Every factory whistle in
town tooted. Tonight the town gave
itself over to an oldfashioned demon
stration with bands, red fuses and
all the other paraphernalia of enthu
siasm.
•V.c
GAS & OIL COMPANY GETS
FRANCHISE FROM CITY
There appears elsewhere in the col
umns of Tne Graphic this week City
Ordinance No. 140 which grants the
Pioneer Oil & Gas Company of this
city a franchise for supplying Wil
liston with natural gas, and which
specifies that tne gas is to be taken
from a well or wells within the city
limits or within ten miles from the
city.
The franchise allows the company
four months' time in which to com
mence the actual operation of procur
ing a sufficient flow of natural gas to
supply the reasonable requirements of
the city, and the instrument further
specifies that the Pioneer Lias & Oil
Company must have procured such a
flow of gas within one year from the
passage of the ordinance referred to.
Mr. Phillips representing the gas
company, is nere and making arrange
ments as rapidly as possible for the
prosecution of the work, which is
necessarily a rather large undertak
ing as it requires no small equip
ment to drill wells of a depth calcu
lated to be sufficient to pierce the
gas and oil "pockets" said to lie at
depths probably in excess of 2,000
feet.
The fact that a remarkably large
flow of natural gas has been secured
by the sinking of deep wells in the
vicinity of Havre, Mont., gives en
couragement that a similar flow of
gas may be found here. It will mean
a great deal in the commercial de
velopment of Williston and in sur
rounding territory. Should there also
prove to be oil as well as gas then
this country would assume altogether
a different aspect in the commercial
world and mineral oil would perhaps
assume a more important position in
value of production than is now
realized from agricultural pursuits. It
might also result in the development
of pottery &nd clay products indus
tries, and with these and other ad
vantages which may come to this sec
tion of the state as a result of Mr.
Phillips' work there will naturally be
a keen interest in the progress of iiis
prospecting.
HUMPHRIES-OPPERMAN
The following item taken from the
McConnelsville (Ohio) Democrat will
be of interest to many in Williston as
both the folks mentioned in the ar
ticle were at one time residents of
this city. Miss Opperman being in
structor in language at the Williston
High school and Mr. Humphries was
city editor of the Graphic and it was
here that the couple first met. The
item follows:
"Mention was made in the Neely
ville correspondence of the bringing
home of a bride by A. H. (Eck) Hum-
Jhries.
The lady's name was Amelia
Opperman. She is from St. Mary's,
Idaho, and her marriage to Mr. Hum
phries occurred may 29, in Chicago,
where he had gone to meet her. Mrs.
Humphries since her graduation from
the Upper Iowa University at Fayette,
la., in 1908, has been engaged in teach
in£ has held important positions in
Minnesota and at Williston, North Da
kota, and the past year at St. Mary's,
Idaho. Mr. Humphries who has been
spending the past several years in the
west, has been engaged in newspaper
work at different points, being for
three years before returning to Mor
gan county, located at Miles City,
Montana. He and his bride are now
located on the farm of his father, the
late James Humphries in Meigsville
township, Mr. Humphries having re
turned from the west not long ago be
fore his father's death, which occurred
several weeks ago."
SUMMIT VALLEY FARMERS'
PICNIC
The Summit Valley Farmers' club
held their second annual picnic on
Wednesday at the farm home of Mr.
A. E. Walker near Epping. There
were about 200 persons present and a
splendid program gave those in at
tendance both pleasure and profit.
There was a great variet" of races,
games, etc. Good music was provided
throughout the day. A baseball game
between Epping and Marmon resulted
in a score of 8 to 2 in favor of Mar
mon. County-Federal Agent Hall,
Attorney Braatelien, Secretary Mor
rill of the Williston Commercial club,
and two men connected with the Great
Northern were the principal speakers
during the day. At the close of the
function all departed for their homes
feeling that they had just about as
jolly a time as one could imagine.
There were three autos from Portal
present, Messrs. Greenfield, Bywater
and Gladys having driven down to at
tend the picnic.
Thursday Mr. Walker brought those
from Portal to Williston to see the
sights and the party had a picnic din
ner down near the river, returning to
Epping in the afternoon.
SEVERAL CASES OF DIPHTHERIA
Miss Alice Anderson has been very
sick with diphtheria for several weeks
at the family home near Gladys. Miss
Anderson was taken sick about three
weeks ago but the dangerous nature
of her illness was not realized until
a youngted sister, her mother and
father all began to show symptoms of
the same ailment, when a physician
was summoned and pronounccd it
diphtheria. Antitoxin was used which
has prevented the development of
serious cases in the latter mentioned
members of the family and Miss An
derson is improving slowly although
she was seriously ill for several days.
The young lady is well known in Wil
liston having been a student in the lo
cal schools for several years, gradu
ating from the high school as vale
dictorian a year ago.
The Congregational Ladies' Aid will
meet in the basement of the church
at 2:30 next Thursday. Mrs. W. H.
Westergaard and Mrs. W. E. Snider
will be the hostesses.
v.«».
1
?,jf
COMPMIV E TO STAGE
GREAT MILITARY PLAT
INTERESTING EVENT AT ARM
ORY FRIDAY, JUNE 23—TO
AID BUILDING FUND
The members of Company "E," N.
D. N. G., will stage a military play
at the Armory-Auditorium next Fri
day evening, June 23, which will be
one of the most interesting events
given in the city for many weeks. The
play is to be given as benefit to the
building fund, and outside of the ex
penses incidental to giving the excel
lent production the revenue realized?
will go to defray building expenses.
This is indeed a worthy cause as there
is surely no building in the city which
has done so much and which will con
tinue to be of such general pleasure
and benefit to the general public as
the Armory-Auditorium. When one
considers that the Auditorium is the
only building of the kind—the only
real auditorium in a circle 200 miles
in circumference—it is better realized
how much need there is for it. The
handsome edifice is nearing comple
tion and within a short time the gym
nasium will be ready for use, and it
might be appropriate at this time to
state that persons not affiliated witlr
E Company may enjoy the pleasure
of the gym by purchasing season
tickets which may be procured from
G. G. Harvey and other members of
the company. But to get back to the
story of the play attention is directed
to the excellent cast given below. The
synopsis sounds ineresting and the
attraction should fill the house to ca
pacity. A military play at this time
is very appropriate, and this produc
tion "At Tampa Bay or With the
Boys of '98'' produced under the able
direction of the veteran actor Ton*
Lennon, will strike the popular chord.
Armory-Auditorium, Friday, June 2S
At Tampa Bay or
"With The Boys of *98"
Military play by Chas. Ellis
50—People—50.
Special Scenery.
Electrical effects.
Real Battles.
Guns and Soldiers.
Camp life, camp songs and storiMt.
Cast of Characters
General Joe Wheeler an ex-Confed
erate General now commanding U. S.
forces in Cubo—Lieut. Emory W.
Jeffrey.
Col. Saunders of t)ie U. S. A.—
Sergt. Geo. H. Harvey.
Capt. Edmund Lawton (afterwards
Corporal Kent U. S. A.)—Private Ted
Craven.
Lieut. Spicer U. S. A.—Private Jos.
Pavlik.
Sergt. Jim—Private Lester Jaynes.
Balaam Bone, A Col'o'd Gem'on—
Lieut. W. W. Jeffrey.
Corporal Cook—Corpl. Lester Jeffrey.
Victor Pasos a Spanish Simpathizec
—Sergt. Otto Wanangat.
G. Moran his friend—Private Ellis-.
Slater.
Capt. Ferandez of the CubamArmy
—Private Walter Charnholm.
Lt. Roban—Private Clarence Mathews.
Orderly—Private Percy R. Jaynes.
Harry a Young American—Erensat
Heffernan.
Elverita, wife of Capt. Lawton. andA
daughter of Victor Pasos—Miss Pearl!
Harvey.
Nettie, her friend, and true as steel
—Miss Margaret Heffernan.
Soldiers, Citizens, Cubans and1:
Spaniards etc., by members of Com
pany E. 1st Reg. No. Dak. Nat Guards-
Synopsis
Act I
Exterior of Tampa Bay Hotel,
Tampa, Florida. Rumors of War, the
stolen Dispatches. Arrest of Capt.
Lawton.
Act II
Tampa Bay Hotel. War Declared'
—Explosion at the Powder Magazines
—at Tampa—the Fugitive, the dying:
Pasos.
Act
At the Front. The battle field in
Cuba—Remember The Maine.—The
Spy,—Arrest of Corporal Kent—
Death of Corp. Cook.
Act IV
The Cuban Lines. Capt. Lawton a
Prisoner of War. The Court Martial.
Capt. Lawton condemned to die.—Ar
rival of Gen. Wheeler—News from
Washington.
GRADING CONTRACT FOR
WILDROSE EXTENSION
The contracts for the grading work
for the extension of the Wildrose
branch of the Great Northern were
let on Wednesday June 7 to Morris
& Shepard, who will start the work
as soon as it is possible to get their
men and grading outfit on the grounds.
It is said the grade will be completed
within 90 days.
The Northern Town and Land Com
pany who have control of the town
sites along the new extension are ad
vertising the sale of the town lots in
this issue. The new towns will be
named Corinth, Appan, Alamo, which
was formerly Cottonwood Lake, ZahT..
Mesa and Grenora, the last town be
ing at the end of the line.
The sale of the town lots will be
gin on Thursday June 20 and con
tinue until Friday June 23 at the town
sites. This new extension will open
up a splendid territory and the dates
for the sale of the lots are being
watched by hundreds of investors who
will be on the ground prepared to get
possession of some of the lots for
building purposes. W. F. Hanks of
Powers Lake will have charge of the
townsite sales.
