I
PUTNAM COm
BDEEALD
VOLI'ME XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE. THURSDAY, J ONE 15, 1916.
XUMBEB 24
o
o
DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM
We, the Democracy of Tennessee in
convention assembled, ' unreservedly
indorse the , Democratic national1 ad
ministration and unqualifiedly approve
of the wise and patriotic conduct of
our national affairs under President
Wilson, and unanimously indorse
him for a second term.
We point with pride to bis success
in guarding American interests and
American honor in the many crises
that have faced him during this world
wide war.v While he has maintained
and protected American rights and
American honor, he has, at the same
time, preserved an honorable peace
with all the world, and has secured
for the American people the greatest
domestic prosperity they have ever
known.
We congratulate him and the Demo(
cratic administration upon having
brought peace to business. Especial
laws for the suppression of the liquor
traffic and the enforcement of the law
The present Democratic administra
tion stands for the supremacy and
majesty of the law, for economy, ef
ficiency ind fidelity in office and has
exemplified in every department, the
truth that public office is a public
trust. We Joelieve in local self gov-
eminent, but deny, that it can be
used. as a pretext to challenge the
sovereignty of the state.
The state, through its chief execu
live omcer nas the inherent power
to enforce its police regulation and
compel the impartial observance of
state statutes throughout its bound
aries. On this principle rests the en
forcement of the temperance laws
and all other laws, where local officials
or local sentiment shall oppose their
observance.
We indorse the present adminis
tration for its recognition of this
ly dov we commend his effective and principle by the passage of the rang-
forceful championship against all be
lligerents of the lawful rights of
Americans and of neutrals upon the
high seas. His success in maintain
ing the rights of neutrals on the high
sea8 means the lasting glory of our
country and is of greatest importance
in establishing and maintaining our
foreign commerce.
: We heartily comment his mainte
nance of the Monroe Doctrine and his
policy in co-operating with our sister
republics in the western hemisphere especially
and we commend his patriotic course
in placing America first with refer
ence to all questions, foreign and do
mestic We commend his forbearance in
dealing with our afflicted sister re
public of Mexico, and we pledge him
our earnest support in sending troops
and keeping troops there and in what
ever course he may deem necessary
to bring order out of chaos in that
unhappy and distracted country, and
to protect and defend American rights
and honor and property there.
In our domestic affairs we congrat
ulate the country on the splendid
course of the Democratic administra
tion in having, secured more wise,
constructive and beneficial legislation
than any administration has ever
done before in the same length of
time. We, especially point to the
achievements of the administration In
securing a revision downward of the
tariff duties in compliance -with our made a felony
er law ana tne ouster law, and we
promise that these laws shall be
feare3sly, impartially and honestly
applied by Democratic executive au
thority. .
Upon the efficiency of our public
schools depends the character of the
citizenship of the state in coming
generations. We pledge our unstint
ed support to all the institutions of
the state, from . the elementary
schools to the state university. We
emphasize the necessity
for the improvement of the rural
schools, xnese schools-should re
ceive stronger support, have better
teachers who are encouraged to make
teaching a profession, be adapted, to
the communities they must serve, and
In every possible way be brought
nearer to the people. We favor such
changes and modifications of the
present method of examining and li
censing teachers as will give the lo
cal school authorities such supervis
ion as may not be inconsistent with
efficient service in the school room.
The Democratic party nas always
favored honest and fair elections. To
this end, bona fide representation
should be given to both political par
ties on every election board, and at
every ballot box; every legal voter
should be permitted to cast u.
according to his own will and have
it .counted and returned as cast and
the violation of the election laws be
national platform; the passage of ef
ficacious antitrust measures ; the
many laws for the amelioration and
betterment of the conditions of labor,'
the laws shortening the hours of la
bor for women in the District of Co
lumbia; the passage of parcel post
legislation and the enactment of a
We declare for the enactment of a
legalized primary law with all the
safeguards of a regular election, with
severe penalties against corrupt prac
tices of every kind.
We declare for the proper regula
tion of the fee system.
The people of Tennessee have'long
GLORIOUS FOURTH IN COOKEVILLE
Plan Now to Spend the Day Here Gala Time
BIG PARADE, BABY SHOW, BASEBALL GAME, ETC.
Plans are being arranged to make the coming Fourth of July a
real gala occasion in Cookeville. The ladies of the Parent-Teachers'
Association, seeing the need of giving our people a safe, sane
and instructive method of observing our great national holiday are
making plans to make the occasion a red letter day in Cookeville. I
A very enthusiastic meeting as held at "The Wayside" Thurs
day night, when the plans were generally discussed and met with
hearty approval. Prof. M. T. Carlisle was unaimously chosen
chairman or director of the whole program, and he will appoint
committees to have charge of the various sections and departments.
Now let everybody get behind the chairman and his committees
and push to make a big success.and whoever is called upon to take
a part, let them all respond heartily and cheerfully.
, t PATRIOTIC PARADE
The feature of the day will be a gigantic patriotic parade, and
will include many interesting, attractive, spectacular and amusing
features, about as outlined below:
ORGANIZATION OF PRESBYTERY
OF CUMBERLAND MOUNTAIN,
AND COUNTRY LIFE CAMP.
June 9 13
"Uncle Sam".
Fife and Drum Corps, or Band.
Military Company of City School.
' Boy Scouts.
Boys' Corn Club.
Girls' Canning Club.
The educational facilities of Cooke
ville will be displayed by three floats
representing the City School, High
School and T. P. 1.
The Parent-Teachers' Association.
Story Tellers' League.
Floats or displays representative of
the trades and mercantile establish
ments.
Decorated Automobiles.
Pony Section.
Girls and Boys, horseback.
Farmers' Float.
Old Soldiers. -Fraternities
Section.
Mayor and Aldermen.
Present Day- Notables burlesque.
Prizes will be given for the following
features:
Best Country Turnout.
Best Team of Mules.
Best Team1 of Horses.
Best Town Display Cookeville ex
cluded.
rural credit system for the benefit of Bmce recognized the demand for eco
the farmers, and the establishment of nomical and better highway traffic
federal aid to road building, which conditions, involving the co mercial,
last two measures are just now helng industrial, social, moral, educational
enacted into law, and the many other and agricultural welfare of our state
measures that have been enacted for an(i nation. We therefore indorse the
the benefit of the great masses of theaction of the national Democratic ad
American people. ministration in supporting federal aid
we point wun specinc pnae to one
of the greatest achievements of this
or any other administration, which is
and
The parade will be held at 1 o'clock. Immediately afrer the pa
rade a short convention of "Ye Old Time Fiddlers" will be held
a slight admission charge being made. '
BABY SHOW
During the morning hours a baby show will be held at Wayside
Rest Room. There will be seven prizes given, six for the babies
and one to the person securing the largest number of entries.
BASEALL '
Arrangements are being made for a baseball game to be held
during the morning hours with some of our neighboring towns.
STAY IN COOKEVILLE ON THE FOURTH
Plan now to soend your Fourth pleasantly, profitably and patri
otically in your home town. ;
The citizens of Cookeville are urged to attend a mass
meeting .at the City School auditorium next Monday night
support ?oTasucTadditionai at 8 o'clock, to organize for boosting the T. P. I. and also
iySSJT HTXLmiZ to push the Fourth of July celebration.
legislation for the construction
maintenance of public roads.
We endorse the present state Demo-
the enactment of the federal reserve cratic administration, in enstablishing
system or banning, by wnich tne a 8tate highway department and pled
couniry nas oeen given tne greatest ge our
system oi DanKing ana oanic creaits
that is known in the world, thereby
making what have formerly been thia detriment, to enable them to
known aB financial panics virtually construct and maintain public roads first importance, and in view of the
impossible in this country. and to better "Safeguard all road outstanding fact that tuberculosis, ty-
We heartily commend the efforts of funds and the economical expendi-! Phoid fever, pellagra and other fatal
the administration to pass the ship ture and accounting for the same. ! preventable diseases are, responsible
purchase bill, and we urge our sena- we also pledge ourselves to the en- for great loss of life in Tennessee
tors and representatives in Congress- actment of such laws as may' be nec-' each year; and, further, because other
to leave no stone unturned to secure essary to secure any federal road ; progressive Btates adopted and are
"the enactment of that great measure, funds that may be available for Ten- successfully applying modern methods
so that we may be enabled to take nessee. 'r the control of preventable disease,
our proper place as carriers of the in the assessment of property, we as is shown by marked reduction of
commerce of the world. favor a policy having for its object death rateg in such states, we' favor
the fair, equitable and Just treatment , the enactment of such laws as will
of all tax p"ayers alike. enable the public Health department
We oppose discrimination 'among or ,'iennessee to put into enect ana
the different classes of -tax payers enforce the application or such meas-
und demand that all rronertv. real, ures as modern sanitary science nas
nersonal and mixed, be compelled to shown to be healthful In the sup-
bear its proportionate part of the tax pression of preventable diseases.
burden, subject only to those exemp-1 We favor the , modernizing of our
tion and oppression at home. We are tions made by the constitution of the state heallh department and the mak
unreservedly for peace, but - peace state. We favor such modification or ins of liberal auDropriations for the
with honor and safety. We congrat- revision of bur tax laws, with refer- purpose of prosecuting its legitimate
uiate tne country mat unaer uemo- ence to tne assessment ana collection healthful activities.
crane runs we uavo uulu iwacc ami or ail revenues as may ue necessary i rry,- ttomnnrntin nnrtv nlerie to
Mass Meeting Monday Night
We heartily commend this Demo
cratic administration for the passage
of a real and genuine Democratic
preparedness bill for the defense of
our country against all foreign foes
who might attempt to invade our
shores. We oppose militarism. It
means conquest abroad and intimida-
aid and co-operate in securing for the
farmers of Tennessse the best mar
kets obtainable for the product of the
farm, and invites general co-operation
in bringing about all practical re
vance the interest of the farmers
The party pledges its aid and co
operation in a greater development
of agriculture and live stock, dairy
ing and poultry in particular: in the
IK IV Lilt III Ctti J nOOiDtUUVV uSkUUW , . , . - m .
We indorse the1 present state Demo- production as well as the sale of the
ni..in aHmnlotiatlnn frtv onatlnff n Oil 111 fj. - i
11 will UB me vuusiaui auu cuuea,
endeavor to bring to Tennessee nome
seekers, manufacturers and all en
gaged in industrial and commercial
enterprise of a-character, which' will
contribute to the permanen,t welfare
of
MONTEREY ITEMS
The lightning struck the corner" of
Morgan Hicks house in South Monte
rey Monday night, setting it on fire
and tearing the weather boarding
from the outside. .
,The barn belonging to Geo, Johnson
on Route 1, Monterey, was blown
down last Friday night and crippled
one mule and a cow. W,e learn that
the-barn, stock and feed were insured
but not enough to cover loss.
Mrs. Estes Levecy, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Steve Buckner died Sunday
night at her home on the Officer farm,
about four miles west of here. Sh?
was 26 years of age, and leaves three
children, all boys, and a husband to
mourn her.
honor. . to secure adequate revenue and in
We commend and endorse the ser- order to equalize tax burdens, mini
vices and course of Senator Luke Lea mize expenses and insure he prompt
and Senator John K. Shields and collection of all taxes with least vex
those of our entire Democratic dele- atlon to the citizen.
gation in the lower house of Congress, The Democratic party is irrevocably f j 6th8i8 whlch ad.
s i7 iiuutuiniiuu v v Will li net tvi iiic jiuiivj u4i1''
teller for- United States Senator is ly .providing for Confederate soldiers
ratified and approved, and we pledge and sailors and their widows, and we
to him our hearty, loyal, support, in hereby give our solemn pledge to a
the full belief that as a senator he continuation of this policy by render-
will reflect great honor upon the ing to them every assistance possible.
State of Tennessee.
We note with pride that the Re
publican party in its last state plat- law under which a very large number
form has no criticism whatever to of state prisoners confined in the coal
pass upon the present Democratic mines of the state have been placed
state administration. It is a matter to work under contract, with the road
of congratulation that the Democratic authorities of the various counties,
nttwtv hoa a1 fnitllfllllv anH RllPfARH- tharahtf roliAvlnar ilia nnftl ATtm t ttTfi
fully administered the affairs of state of ,he state and the miners of hurtful ana betterment or tne state. -...,..,.
tTi.t nn. nna ,iamn-, .nmnatttinn rim-in? i Believing that the advocates
word of censure is uttered by our the Wason from April 1 to Dec. 1, f iual -suffrage are mUUed to sutadt
political adversary. We approve the , when this competition is most serf- to the vote of the peop e of the state
conduct and management of the va- ously felt. We favor the Enactment the question of e'e'"0
rlous .branches and departments of of a law abolishing the convict lease rJF tB-JStTh
the state- government by the several system, the removal of state prlso- thi question tb the people for their
state office! in charge. ners from the coal mines and facto- diSSinu de
Gov. Rye has been true to every ries and placing them on the Pam-hlJAl
nlatform pledge, he has sacredly kept roads as soon as advisable for the partment and the Pute food and drug
his oath of office and by his sincerity sake of humanity and the develop- ?vepXter the duties of those de-1 the League was taken up and a round
citizens of Tennessee. We confident- We favor a workman's compensa- accornplished, and we favor any leg-; a vaiued member of the League, Btat-
ly commend him and his record to the tion law, fair alike to employer and l "f : " ed that he wpuld give a period eaci
people as worthy of their endorse- employee. We also favor a fellow
ment at. the noils. The Democratic servants' law and the proper regula-
nnrtv nrt thn StntA ff Tennessee are tlnn of Ihe rates and charees of all;
to be congratulated that his nomina- public service corporations.' i J- ' dead ; Story Teller's League, in order tha
tion is unanimous and , that he goes We demand the passage of an act i j
acnes' T. Miller died In Nashville this work of Story Hour in schools
before the people with the full and forbidding the issuance of free passes ' Tuesday morning aftr a brief illness, j may be brought before the rural teach-
S,rtaycynd0rSCraent ' Xtffiffl SEES' & and was taken to Hart.viHe for burial, j ers. A committee composed of Prot.
The Democratic party stands com- and to-all other persons for the pur- t Jim Miller was we'l known througharlisle, Mrs. Quimby Dyer and Dr
mitted to temperance, good govern- pose- of influencing or controlling po- out this section, having nfade twortfc-i Walter McClain was appointed to ar
ment and law enforcement. The peo- Jitical action of any kind. ' s f ,h nemocraltc nomination for range this program. v ,
?'1Z JZLIJZ :ZVSEJ! Congress in the Fourth district. A ? Mrs. McDearman stated that elec-
A marriage of much interest is that
of Miss Myrtle Johnson of Calfkiller,
to Frank Potter, of Crossville, which
took place Wednesday morning at the
bride's home. She is the attractive
and accomplished daughter of Mr
and Mrs. Geo. Johnson and has many
friends who will share her happiness.
She has taught school for ' several
years in the city school at Crossvillfc.
. NEWS.
STORY TELLERS LEAGUE
, Tuesday afternoon in the City
School auditorium, a very interesting
meeting of the Story Teller's League
was held with the President, Mrs.
Comer McDearman presiding.
A number of items of business wer
disposed of and reports heard from
the different committee's.
The subject of extension work of
The close, on last Tuesday of the
Conference under the above head
marked the inauguration of a new
era for the Presbyterian Church in the
V. S. A. in the. Cumberland Mountain
region. The new Presbytery takes
the place of the old Presbytery if
Cookeville, with several counties ad
ded to the bounds. As now consti
tuted the Presbytery includes th?
counties of White, DeKalb, Putnam,
Jackson, Overton, Clay, Fentress, Pic
kett, Scolt, Morgan, and Cumberland
There are at present 14 ministers
and 25 churches, with one Industrial
School, and settlement work at two
or three places. Three" unordainei
Theological students are at work in
as many counties. These young mon
will make a survey of the several
counties o ascertain .and tabulate
the religious, social, educational, ec
nomical and moral conditions of the
people. , '
The work of the Presbytery has
been placed under the Country Church
work of the Board of Home Mission?
at New York and will be administer
ed by Warren H. Wilson, Ph. D. of
New York. Rev. J. H. Miller, D D,
of Lebanon, Tenn, will be superintend
ent on the field.
The distinctive characteristic of
this movement is the declaration that
"The Church exists to administer to
the need of the people, whether that
need be spiritual, intellectual, moral,
social or economical." '
To further this aim Dr. Wilson
brought together for five days the
workers of this new Presbytery -and
held a conference or 'Camp address'
ed by Rev. A. L. Wilson and Rev.
Jesse Halsey of Cincinnati, Mr. J.
Sterling Moran, Washington, D. C,
Mr. William A. Schoenfield, Mr. H
D Tate, Miss Geneva, Conway, of the
Cooperative extension work of Ten
nessee in Agriculture and Home Eco
nomics, Miss Field of Peabody Col
lege, Mrs. John S. LeFevre, social
worker, Revere, N. C, Miss McKenzie
and Mr. Harrison, County Agents for
Putnam , County, President Thomas
A. Early, Prof. Carlyle and many
others.
.It is safe to say that never before
In this region has a church meeting
had the advantage of such a diversity
of talent upon Its program.-
The meetings were well attended
by the public and proved to be of
more than ordinary interest. ,
SALVATION ARMY
Several members of the Salvation
Army were in Cookeville a few days
during last week, holding services in
the square daytimes and near the de
pot at night. Good sized crowds
greeted them. The party was made
up of Capt. (Mrs.) J. McAllister and
her daughters, Envoy tV. McAllister
and Cadet A. McAllister, J. F. Sulli
van and V. Lowney. Their services
were very , interesting, and we hope
they may visit our city again. Thi
Salvation Army does much good, es
pecially . in cities where regular bar
racks are maintained. Headquarters
for this section are at Nashville
Anyone desiring information in re
gard to the work of the Army should
write to Maj. A. E. Widgery, Box 3K.
Nashville, Tenn.
Mt. View Lodge No. 179, I O O K
held a splendid meeting on June 10th
1916, J. H. McCulley, N G, presiding.
Quite a lot of routine business was
disposed of.
Bro. C. Bradford was reported to be
about as last week. Bro. J H York is
some better this week, plans a trip
to Red Boiling Springs vrey soon.
Bro. Geo. W. Stephens was reported
sick this week. Bro. A N Bowden, .
several days ago while at work, was
struck in the eye by a broken belt. It
has caused a great deal of pain, (ho
it is thought he will not lose his sight.
A very interesting memorial service
was held in regard to the thirty de
ceased members of this Lodge, each
Brother's name was called and fitting
remarks were made, showing clearly
that, though deceased, their virtues
are still green and cherished. it
was an interesting, solemn occasion
and one long to be remembered. Onlv
two more meetings in this term.
There should be a good attendance :
on the 16th inst.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS
C. A. Keller, Director of Division of
Extension H. D. Tate, Assistant Di
rector, J. M. Dean, District Agent for
Middle Tennessee, and H. S. Vander
vort," Assistant State Agent, of West
Virginia, spent Tuesday with County
Agent Harrison in looking over the
progress of demonstration work in
Putnam county. These men attended
a field meeting on the farms of B. C.
and S. C. Huddleston on Tuesday af
ternoon. About twenty five members
of the Salem Community were pres
ent at , the meeting, which was one
of the best ever held in the county.
The people of this community are do
ing things unitedly, and find that co
operation of the farmers ot a commu
nity in common endeavors and work
ing with a common aim is a paying
proposition. All the visiting gentlo-'
men spoke n the highest terms In
praise of the work being done in this
county.
to give honest and impartial service. during the County Teacher's In-
jstitute to De neia nere in Juiy, to tne
Ville snd
i practice.
of Intoxicants as a beverage in Ten- nicious practice of legislative lobby- rew years ago ne reinovea to maso- uuu oi outers wuum w uiu i iu.i
nessee shall cease; we accept this as Ing.. , . i
an accomplished fact and declare our Believing that the 'promotion of
m AnnnaltlMi an- mntmiMt nr rmhli hnnlth thrmis-h the nrpvention
AJI4U VlVBtMVll .V w-y - . ' ,
effort to repeal , or Impair existing of commwaicable disease is of the i leT-
acquired an- extensive la r j August meeting of the League.
He is survived by one sis- -; The League adjourned to meet
. - i , again the second Tuesday in July.
CHILDREN'S DAY
Sunday, June 11th, a Children's Day
was held at Salem, which was enjoy
ed by a large number of people.
With the trees for a canopy, moth
er earth for a carpet and Nature for
decoration the beauty was unsurpas
sed. The exercises were impressive
as well as beautiful,-because of the
trueness of the pieces and the sweer
simplicity with which they were de
livered by the school children. ,
Mr. D. C Whittaker assisted by
Mrs. Dave and Coey Huddleston su
pervised the training of the children.
The Salem quartet helped to furnish
music for the program.
An abundant dinner of unusual de-
liclousness was a very important feat
ure of the day, ,
Salem is progressive in more than
one; respect. Aside from being one of
the foremost rural school centers and
a thrifty, as. well as scientific agricul
tural region, it has excellent domes
tic scientists, as was proven by the
substantial dinner.
If anyone left hungry it certainly
wasn't the fault of the Salamites. for
they most assuredly gave' every one a
hearty welcome. They are cordiality
itself.
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Gibbs with their
new motor truck took about fifteen
or twenty boys and girls out to enjoy
the occasion, which they truly did.
It is hoped that another day similar
to last Sunday will come again. . If it
does we will too. G. H.
REPUBLICAN MASS MEETING
By the direction of the Republican
Executive Committee of Putnam coun-
in regular session at the Court
house in the town of Cookeville, Tenn,
mass -meeting of the Republicans
of said county is hereby called to
meet at the Courthouse in the town
of Cookeville, Tenn., at 1 o'clock Sat
urday, June 24th, 1916 for the purpose
of nominating candidates for county
offices to be elected at the regular
August election, and for the purpofa
of transacting such other business as
may come before the meeting.
NORMAN MASS, Charman.
E. W. STONE, Secretary,
i ,; -
THE ARCADE GROCERY
The Arcade Grocery is the latest
commercial concern in Cookeville.
Messrs. W. T. "Moore, Sam Edwards,
J. F. Gentry and E. B. Hlckey consti
tute the firm. They propose to carry
a complete line of staple and fancy
groceries and are located in the Ar
cade building. The Herald wishes
the new firm a long afld prosperous
career; ,
Do your trading in. Cookeville where
you can get what yo want
IMPORTANT MEETING
A meeting of the citizens of Cooke
ville will be held in the city school
building next Monday night for the
purpose of devising plans to secure
as large an attendance as possible fo""
T. P. I. at the opening term in Sept
ember. This meeting is of Utmost
Importance to the school and town,
hence every citizen should attend.
The future of the school largely de
pends upon the initial attendance.
Come out and help devise the beat
plans for getting students Interested.
In this fail not, or suffer the penalty
in such case made and provided. The
meeting begins at 7:30, sharp. -
JOHN ELROD, DEAD' ; . -
John El rod died at, his home in
Cookeville, Friday morning, June 11.
1916, after a lingering illness. He
was a member of the Christian chnreh
for many years. Mr. Eirod served
throughout the Civil war in tho Con
federate army and was nearly 79 yrs,
of age.:; The funeral was' conducted
at the residence, interment made In
the city cemetery. Mr. Eirod is sur
vived by his wife and five, children.
Jesse C. Eirod, and Mrs. J. R. Coe of
this city, Mrs. Ella Watson of Harts- ,
ville, J. E. Eirod of Kansas and A. W.
Eirod of Texas. . , ,
' DATES WANTED
On the third "Sunday " in July, ;u
Smith's Chapel, beginning, at 10:3'),
a meeting wilLbe held to get dates of
all deceased persons therein' bu'ed.
The public in general is cordially
Invited, and especially the friends and
relatives of all persons buried in sail
cemetery.
Subscribe for the Herald. X eta
