The Marble Hill Press.
i i-UJ . I, .WW ft
I'll IETY - S TJCTZX "Z-E-AJR.
Circulation. 1,200
Vol. 36.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, June 15, 1916.
No. 7
To re Democrat of Missouri;
It is with the deepest regret thnt
I announce that on nmxint of the'
ill health of tuy mother and thej
duties I owe her in her declining i
years, I cannot make the rare for j
Stale Auditor, but must withdraw '
my natne from any further consider-:
ntion nt this time.
I rejlret this necessity only for the
nake of my friends who have no ,
loyally advocated my candidacy, but
I can now only tender them my ,
sincere thank ami aure them thnt
in roe they have a friend who will
ever be loyal a a brother, and thnt
I shall continue, ni I always have,
in the forefront ft democratic uc-
, Sam J. McMixh.
Buchanan. Mo, June 1. 1916
.v'
Suiia?
3)
Come to the Bollinger County Inter-Denominational Sunday
School convention which is to bo held at Glen Allen, Mo., Saturday
and Sunday, June 17and 18, 1016. Every Sunday school in the
county is requested to send delegates to this meeting.
Mr. Sterling L. Williams, whose name appears in the following
program is one of the state Sunday school workers. Hear him!
I' It (Milt AM
15
3f3
a io
3 40
345
H, rr. Altxaadcr Aaitoaact tor
State Seaator
Hon H C Alexander of Cape Gir
ardeau ha filed hislderlaration with
the wetetary of Mate aod made his
uinouncenMHtt M a rtuididflte for
mate senator from this, the Twenty
firtt diatrfct.
As he t oot to Well acquainted
with the niter of this county, a
Uyrf tumnwiry of his activit- will
perhaps he of intern to those who"
nreraNed upon to deride who will
he the nominee,
Mr Alexander fat thirtyix year -oM.
aod wa horn and reared in
Cap GtraitWu county lie attend-'
ed the public school M lemo, from
whk h he wrot to the Cape Normal,
Mhsouri Utaiveruty and then to the
1'Biveruty of Trta. In which uwtitu- i
tk he completed the tow mum and '
got hk degree la the year of UM&j
Swt that lime he ha been actively j
engaged (he praetor of hi pro-1
Pr'yteriaa rhnreh tad of svrI
hrovtnt and fraternal organ!.
int.. During hi fourteen yeuw ul
a, live service In CJe Qrardeai -
CHinti he hM b tk elected ; rally talking
pemecutinft attorney
Saturday morning
I I IK) a. m Registration of delegates.
1113 " Praise service Rev. F. W. Mathews.
II 30 " Totting Ready to Teach" Sterling L William.
12-00 " Adjournment
Saturday afternoon
200 p. m Praise service J. M. Deck.
The superintendent ami his work II A. Ftihoti.
"Sunday School Aims "Stirling L William.
Hymn
Teaching the Unpolished Truth" Prof. Vaughan
"tSen Conference" Sterling L Williams-Adjournment.
Saturday evening
730 p. tn. Praise service Rev J. C Morgan
7 43 Appointment of committees PresidetuJohn H Hardy
755 " Hymn'
MW " Winning ami Training the Boy" . . Sterling L Williams.
Sunday morning
(MX)
10;30
10:40
1030
11:10
12.00
a. m Meeting of committees.
Regular Sunday school.
Praise service Lee Roy Trader.
Report of committee.
Election of officers.
"A Square Deaf Sterling L Wifliams.
Adjournment
Sunday afternoon
1:30 p. ra Praise service Elery Zimmerman.
1:40 " Plana for the coming year . . President John H. Harty.
200 " Hyma
2.03 " "Missions in the Sunday School" . .Miss Grace Sullivan.
23 " "The Local Field" Rev George W. Graham.
245 " Hymn.
130 "Out Into the Deep" Sterling L Williams.
320 " Adjournment
Ministers and Superintendents, you should attend the convention
yourselves and urge your people to come.
.ill.'tVI
t:' ()
ahoui road matters.
The fact that ' when one of them remarked to the
rh ti tie he wasrlerted he had to other that he was ojpol to the! '
wercntw nuuortue ranting from s Nioit prpiiMtiin. hmiuw the town . Au!muf,,; JrBtf funj
7.' to IvJO votes, and that io ear n people would get nil the tivwy ami !
iataoci he had ahnut t30 majority-''the country peoj-Je woufcl get no' jilw j
is suftkHit rvklence of hb atxhty gl frotn it. In order to enforce) Adding to the above the iII uu.
and popularity Beakiet hotdlmt the . hr argumtit. he td, "Now just j estimated at 17(H) poll tax payers
otlsreof (HMaecuting attorney. Ive ii; ..ili i thnt street They are build-' at $t5lW each, SIOlHHXHl we have
elrs-ted city Judge of Capeturhie4u ' iitg a fine gravel street here in town, : a grand total of $23.U5 11 Pretty
which position he liekl fw two terms ,iid we country pwf4e are aymg gml sum is it not Are we getting
At a meeting held at C;e Girar- f, it His friend at oo.-e informed full value for it' Why F.vidently
lean last fall which was a:tenied hun that the town people pay as ' it's the fault of the system, and not
by prominent deimxTats from nil mtirh tmkI tax as the cinmtry r i altogether the fault of the men who
StHitheast VkiiH f'ir the purjse jje, aod in aMitkn they p.iy a sjwc- have to d with the spending of the
ot orgaming a Smthewst Misamiri i,U tax to be ussil in keeping up ; money It oomes in dribs, isapread
ilemo-ratk club, Mr Aletainler a tlMir stret ts, that t!e Li sptvially ( out and use,) m patching, and the
selected witliout opptwitK as tjrei- i-nntilcrf that no part of any nvKl next rain that comes along wa.shes
dc-tit of the organlMthNi Th.e , (at piiid by rrskleutt of the towns, it awav W hy not change our sys
iresent felt (hat the bor was due tHt that the part t!- tiwn people ' tem, pUv the matter iu the hands
him because of his activity as one nay must I used ihi tlie pm1s out-
of the leotlmg figures in managing ni.le f the towns The man who
ami cam ms u iuhthsui mhini was nrsi atauiM u.e pin wiiuii
t .ft. . : . . . . .... I. .11... . . i -i i t . L .. .... :
one oi ui i'iki-ttsi iwHimm ninnv- irien rmiarktsi. i ui'i iuh mk'w ii
, ... .. . ..it . i
tver lifM in ine siaie. ami mius- u tnat way, u nun s me r- i
i f his well known urgatuiag nhihty (iee I am for it "
At the state convention in St e might have Iwen fun her in
Joseph last March lie was lweo as . formeii that tin incirpiimttsl towns
one of thriiresklentuileUsrtorsof.rtf the txmnty. tlie railnvid com-
this itnigres.siMial district pniiies, Ivanks. telegraph and tele- Sivriiikis. Mo . the morning of June 10.
This ditri'l is cttmss of the phone comivmies and other iP"-i agi 3t years lie had lavn in poor
count ie of nolhnger. Hut ler Carter. ratims and non-resident tax iyers 'health some time and finally gave
(V.ie taranleau, Dunklin. Ripley athl p,ty on more than forty per ceut of ; tip hj ork and went to Kldorado
Wayne Next toIinkIin,Cai r.irar- ihe pmpcrty in l?.'llhiger county Springs a few weeks ago imhe hope
denu ca.sts tlie bigjfest dem-s raih' Tli.it all this money goes on the f U mg lenetitlts bv the use of the
oteif any county in the district, yet nvnis outside of the towns, and that j water and rt. but it seems to have
Cajn' county has not furtiiiied the the money is to he Bpirtioned to.,,-!, ry little, if any. relief He
noiiiiiv-e for the district sin. e ISsi. t be several tow nsJii in proportion ' leaves a widow, and daughter alxuit
the several funds are as fo)kws other friend and extends it sincer- known him intimately and our as
Sw,l rm4 and rvg fund . . 777 13 WS sympHthiesi to the liereaved wid- MK-iatkns will ever lie among the
1'cter R. Conrad Passes
At At SJ
0M1M and most
...... i ... i. . , . i .. ... .i
cmmia, paw!i"i in uie ireai neyoini a0)j j
at ins home near Alliance the morn
ing of June 1 1 . aged about H-S years
f a committee from every part of
the county such a was apsmtsl
rwTiitlv. let the work out by tui
tr.H t and build (x-rmanent roiHls
lias is entirely too much money to
continue to waste as it has Iweu
wasted in the past Let's wake up'
r7d L. Auhmhon Dead
VA L Aubuchoii dievl at 1 Idorado
ow and little daughter most pleasant nieinoncs of life. The
last month of our limited school book
education was m-eived at the hands
of this l'ikk nun in ifif lntlc iihl
lYterR. Conrad. oneofourcoiinty's i,,,;,,,,,,,, ; ,.r c.i.,.
highly rcspeeted uil.k . ,,irrl .n ,.rc a,.
was there that we learned
something of his love for his fellow
men, as well as his natiiMit Oiristi.in
He was stricken with paralys.ssome furtlIil(1(, M Jwn nm, m
timeario and never minere,!. and nien,,.Mn from the t,lof ,iliV man
las death was not unexpected hy his . m.,t W((.(1(m ap()h)Ut ..W. (on(
f.in .ly and friends thou g,sM and faithful servant.' is
Siuire Conrad was a prominent Thl, is , imt,1)(ie(i ;)S
hg irem the ,s.hti of Hollmger obuuarv. but a word of testimonv to
cotaitv tor a numnerot years several
titiifs the recipient of honors In-stowed
! his jiarty . He was a cons-rva-tm
republican and no man was
m- rt honorable in his convictions
th.n he.
!!- w as almost a lifelong Prcs! y
teti.ui and loved his church and
the worth of a tru!vgoKi mati Tin.
I'ta.ss utTers -iiidolcnte to the U
ren til xiow . sotis and daughters
CI
f.i;
i-tian p"ip!e. and he showed Ins
!i hy his works, for he wasacon
ii'ious Christian The writer con
; himself fortunate in having
when K H t)lier wasls. t.l
to their av-esvsd valuation And I years old. who have thesviupi
of
isl lu twi-en the township, each one i .)! w II known thruintt the c.i itiiy.
In H 1. Alexatwler the dem rats iU in order to hi Ip the smaller t hies of a host of friends lu re
bs I th.H they have a enmhd ite wlio. townships, the railroad atxl tele- Mr Auhuciion was a cii.
if nomiititt'sj, will ald sirvitih to (raph tax will lie divitleil etpiallv : Mai lie Hill n numls-r of t it- .al
. . .. . Vt. l.. .ft . .. ft: ft. .1 ,., ., ..
tne Ik ket in tne dis;rit i ui
be will r fftHiiel f ur and ii'if
in the ilnw barge of his duti
.. Ill . I.. .. . 1. f.,..r,. ali,.liit.(
Will II " !- I ItfUli-l
piaie upon the party Hatfon
'id gt tting one eighth of the amount
,,,r. yu kn'w Ih)w much money
was available for owd purpofK in
llollmger ctninty for the fiM-al yeur
acre lir Moacy Lome trm VMS It will no oouot i-n tne
An mterriiiul story wa rel aetl eves i4 many of wir pisnik1 to know
tlie ottMi d-iy illustratirul tlie f a t that, a nhown by the finamial
that i.ianv rf tlie citiren are .m Matement mntly publishwl. nearly
well i .f-.rm.sl as to nwl law thirteen thHisaiKl d.4lar in actual
Tw. firmer were having o.wn rash was available for mad pur-
their way lhMnean.1 were uatu- p.e- The actual amount from
Groceries
I lour, .lent and lirj.
5tra ."lattiti.c,
line line of CanJx .
Vockins: Chairs. Lie.
Try a glass of foun
tain Soda made o f
mineral xell xxater.
had many warn, friends who w.ll J ,,c Crcam ccn ,:rj.
very mucn rerei io learn oi ms ir- t
part are ,
Me was a member of tlie Mvilern , f
Wivsimen ramp at this place and car- t
riesl a benefit certifkate for $20(H). j
His remains were taken to Grenola,
Kaasas, b fnterment. t
Tat Irus feeU that it has kt a-!
us l,e made a trip ccr most of it
alfcKit every tuber wt k. repr senuag j
a w holt sak gncery' busiiws. and
Mss Jcssc Lahion Mcd
Garble Hill Mar?
A (part wedding took place at
the h-ittie fif the bride last Snnd.iv.
the KVv Ii A Athcrsoti of Idalia.
Mo. officiating, when John Marty of
Marble .Mill. Mo. took as hi- bride
Miss Hessje Cvishiou The acccru
phshcti bride is a daughter of
Casluon of t.cir Ltingtow u and r.twks
among t!ie most tug!i!y rrsptvted
young l.itht-s in tht" coinitv Tt:e
groom is a popular voting man of
Holhuger county They will us ike
their h"ine at Cape (arardeaa f.r
the present Their many frit mis
wisli i.'ie newly married c-n.plc a
lci'g hie of f.-nppiness and svis-
1'errv x die Sun
Both ..f the hapi tMai-V art'
gr.it!i;a'.es of Will May field C..!le. e
and have a htist tif frit'inN here, w ' i
will it nigral uh'te and wisli thtin a
long, lu'ppv vov age
T:e ub ive figures are for the first
five months of the year. The num
ber for the entire s-nsion or 191")
was (;4.)2.
M. E. CHURCH, SOUTH
I KrV. (.'. BAKI.K. fAST'iK
i Pren,'hing at Hahn chapel Satur
day night and Sunday at 1 1
The tne. tings clos-d at Grave!
Hill Sunday Notwu'ist in ding the
! rain Sunday there was almost a
j house full (4 people HU'I plenty of
idinner for nil.
A series of meetings are ia prog
ress at Hickory Grove, which will
continue until June 25. A Children's
day program will he rendered on
that day.
Baptist Church
(JEO. W. GRAHAM. I'ASTOF.
On account of the heavy rain
Sunday m truing, and the church
attendance being so light, it was
thought liest to postpone the cele
bration of the Lord's supper. This
ordinance will be observed la.pr
At the evening hour Misses Grace
Sullivan and Madge Ramsey, who
are just from the Woman's Mission
ary Training school at Louisville,
Kentucky, had charge of Hie servi(e.
Their description of the work lieing
done by the school and their own
personal experiences in various mis
sions of the city was thrilling and
inspiring. Both of them are force
ful and entertaining speakers and
we predict for them great success
as missionaries in winning souls to
the Master. They are full of real
and consecration
Despite the fact that a great num
ber of our people extect to attend
the County Sunday School conven-
i turn at Glen Allen next Saturday
(and Sueiav. the reguuj Siaitv
school and preaching services will
he conducted Sunday for the benefit
of those who willi'be unable to goto
Glen Allen
During the year 1915 Bolhngei
county got $1;"IH) from the state
mittunohile'dragfund. In 191fi she
will get approximately $22.0, sev
eral miles having lieeti added to our
county seat highways There is
now on hand in the cotmtv tteas
ury $2.7-41.33 to the credit of this
fund Some of the roads have
drawn nothing. some have drawn
all of their mileage, and others have
drawn hut Ja'Ipart of theirs. The
tnotiey is beingdield up in some
cases until the road art pi.t in the
condition as required bv law befare
.the money can be stent upici them
Tic (-unity highway board when it
w.ts tirst apiminted adopted a-li- v
that everv mile of Mail should re-ec-vf
its share ..f the money, which
policy has beer, s;nc:!v lived up !.
The law sets apart Jl.'iiil ;ie; mile
;!" vear for these iutert'-mrit v at
r-"a.is .the ric"ic cunuug 'rcu the
;ttltotlii!lic I't'ellse f;m-l
Truste'e Sa
. i - it.-- ,-. o !" .
- ' 1 . , A 1
day at
J. n. WiCtCARVIR S
Ke.taurant
thi dune 7 there hal Nrn issi, .j
S3.372 autotnobile liti uscs m N'.i
soui i. 1 he average hi-ense is a hi . ic
m re than MlM jrr car N c
see thai tin' autiMitbiks pay tpn e
J a little into tlie state treasury whu h
j is in turn aiH'ortioned to the differ
jjent OHintH's atrtling to t!nir
tX I mileage tf intcrctHiDty seat rtvs.
T . I t .- r:.-i.,.-T
t .' i ! r e.r-, Ti.ftT- - - ' I : e
. I ., ' , ( H -t r i." ' '
t -. v. e"-fsl iiunt t I-' - ' '" '
t, til , U' n-h M m' i -C -r,
:m- si . t-n- rtm -a ' ' s . , ;4vf
f. -.et b f ii ri r
V fKKsvril.- " . n hm rr
-J, Me . IHl!!,ft ..
