State Historical Society
Taney County Republican
Vol. 21. No. 31.
FOKSYTII, MISSOURI, TIIb'USDAV, .H'NK 15, luiti.
Four I'ag1!-'.
Heard at the National Capital
It is frequently remarked in political
circles at the National Capital that the
Democrats have changed their minds
as to the propriety of a "full dinner
pail argument. Io former years it was
the practice of Democrats to decry
that argument as sordid and selfish.
N w however, since industrial activity
has been largely restored as a result
ol the war, they are making the most
of the prosperity argument. It is also
noticible that the Republicans have
not changed their minds. They still
insist that the full dinner pail is an es
sential end in the "pursuit of happi
ness," which is one of the fundament
al rights of men. But Republicans
insist that the full dinner pail shall be
the result of normal industrial condit
ions and not a result of a foreign war,
and they want the American voter to
compare his condition under Republi
can laws with his condition under the
Democratic tariff, before the war be
gan. The Republicans feel confident
that if they get the votes of all those
who had empty dinner pails between
October 1, 1913 and the time when
war orders started the mills and raised
the price of wheat, there will be no
doubt of Republican success in Nov
ember. It is evident that the Democrats will
overwork the prosperity argument to
such an extent as to make themselves
ridiculous and cause a reaction upon
themselves. As an tximple of this
tiny be cited a recent speech deliver
ed by Senator 0 lie M Jioks, Demo
crat, ol K-ntucky. Among other things
M. Junes sai ':
"The Democratic pnty is proud o(
the achievements ol Woodro Wilson.
He has brought prosperity and plenty
to 100,000.000 Amcii-ans. He has
t,iven work torvi ry williu,; hand in the
country."
The trouble nth thu staum nt is
that cv rv school b 'V knows it isn't
true Riid when the luiocra's cinn'iti:
the statriPHi', as they evidrntly imenn
to (! ', 'h'fy i'l oau'-f rtsentni-nt th u
i l hurt twu caus."
I. is beivg f'eely suted aiout th;
Capitol thai the a!niinisra'ion ws con
sid rably disconcerted and rfi tc.rVrl
over the fact that the Republicans or
the naval affairs committee of the home
filed a minority report embracing
more adequate program ol national de
fense. The Republican members ol
the committee favored more scout
cruiser and submarines, a wider scope
in the matter of aviation and a more
complete development of our naval de
fense. The minority report met the
needs and demands of the navy much
more adequately and this was what
gave the administration its anxiety.
In order to attempt to attain political
prestige, this bill was crowded through
the house before the Republican nat
ional conveutioD, it is understood at
the behest of the president, and the
fact that the Republican members filed
a minority report in favor of a larger
navy, was what took the wind out of
the chief executive.
There is considerable agitation and
talk in the capitol in reference to mov
ing the clock ahead one hour in this
country by national legislation, in order
to get a "daylight day." Several of
the countries in Europe have adopted
this and the movement is getting quite
an impetus in this country. Eoth la
bor and industry in various sections of
the country have favored it. Some
western member on the fbor of the
house, in speaking of the proposition
said: "It would be a great thing for
this administration possibly, if it went
to work an hour or two earlier, it might
accomplish something and not keep
us here all summer while it marked
time."
The Democrats frequently manage
to combine tbeir ex'ravagance with
purr wastefulness. An illustration ol
this was sen in Congress on June 1,
when the D mocrats caused a political
prerh by S cretary of the Treasury
McAdoo to be printed in the Congres
sicnil Record twice.
Again the Democratic campaigners
have crossed their wires
Some of
them have been asserting for several
' weeks that it was the Federal Reserve
Banking law that restored prosper
i y. But Secretary of the Tr -ssury
McAdoo spoiled that argument by
showing that the Federal Reserve sys
tem did not get into operation until
alter the upwatd turn in our industrial
affairs. Now com s Paul M. YVuburg,
ol the Federal Reserve Board, with
the declaration that the turn cam? early
in 1914, and that the "advent of the
war precipitated this development with
unprecedented rapidity and to an un
precedented degree." The statistics
ol the D'partment of Commerce show
that the upward turn did not come
until September, 1914, one month af
ter th; outbreak of the war. Therefore
by the process of elimination, we ar
rive at the conclusion that recovery
from the hard times brought on by
Democratic tariff legislation did not
begin until after the war broke out,
that it was the war that brought devel
opment with unprecedented rapid ly
and to an unprecedented degree, and
that the Federal Reserve Liw had
nothing to do with it. The Republi
cans are certainly grateful to the ad
ministration campaigners for letting a
little of the real truth leak out.
Consul General R. P. Skinner of
London reports that the total value ol
declared exports from London to the
United States duting the first four
months of 1916 wis 858,822,349, as
against 845,608,931 for the first four
months of 1915. Wonder what they
would hive d ne to us had they been
nt peace and with a Iree trade Demo
cratic tariff law on our hands?
It costs about 10 cen's a pound to
produce copper. The normal price i
about 12 cents o that there is ordit.ar
ilv, a pn fr il about 2 cents rer pound.
01 course the cost varies and changes
the margin ol rrofi , but this is a gen
eral average. Liw copper brings from
27 to 30 cents prr pound. Piobablv
the cot ol proilirion his advanced
20 per cc lit, s i that the average con
now is abi u: 12 cm s, leaving a profi
"f shout 14 cents pr pour.d. Wi'h
profits 700 v r cent grratrr than before
the war, no wondtr that there is creat
activity in he ropner inihistrv and
tuv prosperity in ci-m tiunities p o-
dncing litis essntnl ol modern w..
far.
There is a i;r at dmiht w letter
American m inuf tcturt-rs will te per
mitted to impi rt irom d nnany t e
dyestufli so n.-cessr to ihs con
tinued operation ol their factories in all
branches. Yet the Democratic Con
gress refused to enact the protective
legislation that must be had before
American investors will establish dye
plants. We continue, dependent up
on some other country because Presi
dent Wilson and his party believe that
the protection idea is "an economic
error." In the opinion of the school
master, it it. economic error for us to
have dye plants of our own when
we can buy cheaper somewhere else.
But, fortunately the opinion of the
American business man is to prevail in
the 1916 election, and we shall fiavea
real "America First" polcy adopted,
after which we shall have dyes 'made
in America," by American labor, finan
ced by American capital.
Having overthrown the Civil Service
law at every opportunity, and having
filled the offices with as many Demo
crats as possible, it is to be expected
that the Wilson administration will soon
revetse its attitude and become an ad
vocate of the principle of Civil Service
Reform. An order may be expected
almost any time throwing a protecting
cloak around all those "deserving
Democrats" who have been placed on
the government pay roll.
Tbe Springfield Business College
teaches tne two best systems of steno
graphy in use, Gregg Shorthand, and
the Stenotype. Gregg is taught in
more schools and studied by more stu
dents than all other systems combined
If you want to be a stenographer, write
J. A. Taylor for facts about the courses,
and for information about a position (or
every graduate.
NOMINEES OF THE
ill ' "' I
For Congressman, 14th District
T1
V
sue '
t -
.'4 -
HON. DAVID W. HILL.
Poplar Bluff, Mo., June 8, 1916.
To the Voters of the Fourteenth Congressional District:
A Cape Girardeau County friend telegraphed me yes
terday that there was a rumor that I contemplated with
drawing from the Congressional race.
I may be defeated, but I will never withdraw I am
not a quitter. Futherrnore, there is no earthly reason why
I should withdraw. So far we have been unable to locate
even one vote for one of my opponents in any one of eight
counties, and my othtr opponent is in as bad fix in seven
counties, while reliable reports from friends throughout the
district claim that I will carry ten of the sixteen counties
in the district over both opponents, and I hopefully expect
to be nominated and elected. This withdrawal rumor can
only be classified as a fake campaign story "made out of
whole-cloth." The story has no foundation in fact.
I take this opportunity to caution voters in regard to
campaign stories, especially those that would reflect upon
any one of the candidates. If some one insists on doling
out to you a story wich would naturally injure my candid
?.cy, I trust that you will ask him to put his story in witing,
sign it and then you can mail it to me and I will promptly
furnish you my answer, and then you can make up your
mind as to its truth or falsity, and thus give me a chance
to be heard, my "day in court." This would be common,
ordinary, every-day justice to which every man is entitled,
whether he be a candidate or not.
Respectfully yours,
DAVID W. HILL
REPUBLICAN PARTY
V
-
.
I
"1
1 3
- . 4 - I
The Republican Party is Re?dy.
The expected has arrived. Charles
Evans Hughes is the Republican can
didate for President of the United
Slates. Against his wibh, without the
slightest tffort on his part to obtain the
nomination, without an authorized lead
er working in his behalf, without an
organization of any kind, with some of
the most frfl.iental men of the country
lajoring against him, Charles Evans
Hughes is made the unanimous choice
of the representatives ol the Republi
can party lor the highest cflice in the
land. It is a fact utterly without
precedent since the rise of political
parties in this country. Never before
has theeffice sought the man with such
persistency, never before has it had to
overcome obstacles set up by the man
himself or by the circumstances of his
position. Nothing less than an over
whelming public sentiment in his favor
could have accomplished this result;
nothing less than a complete confidence
in his ability, his integrity and his
courage; nothing less than a profound
conviction that Charles Evans Hughes
was the one man fitted in every way
for the present situation.
The devtlepement of this sentiment
and conviction is not measured by
weeks nor yet by months. It has been
slowly growingin the minds of tlc
people for a lor time. Eirnest men
throughout the country, men, for the
part, not count cted with political
activities -business men, professional
men, farmers, woikmgmen, all classes
of citizens who have the interests ol
t ie country and ol the p irly at heart,
have btt-n giving thought to the ques
tion of the candidate to be put forward
oythe Republicans at this time, and a
year ago the trend of opinion toward
Iluuhes was plainly discernible. The
Globe Democrat saw this trend then,
and as far back as Feburary publicly
recognized it and approved of it.
There shou'd be good reason fur
uch unamity of popular opinion, par
ticularly so when it is uninfluenced by
personal appeal or partisan passion; and
lure is good reason. The public be
came aware of the qualities and abil
ities of Mr Hughes through his con-
lucl ol the gas and ini-urar.ee invrsti-
gitions in Me Y irx n iyuj-UO. i he
pultr approval al that time forced
nirn ir.to the cilice i f govern. r cf the
state alter he had declinsd the nomi
nation (or mayor of N.-w York City.
lie did not setk the gubernatorial
chair. Then, as io", he kit tut
the call lor his seivices, if his services
were desired, should come from the
people without solicitation. He was
bitterly opposed by certain strongly
intrenched political and corporate
interests, but the people would have
no other. Nor were the people mis
taken in their judgment. "No indi
vidual or group of individuals and no
private interest will be permitted to dic
tate my policy," he said, when notified
of his nomination for governor in Oct
ober 1906. "I shall dee'de and act
according to my conscience and as
believe the public interest requires."
And when he became governor he did
exactly as he said he would do. His
administration was notable for its ab
solute independence of action. It was
a continual battle against hostile inter
ests far the public welfare, and his
triumphant re election, against all the
powers that could be brought to bear
against him, was one of the most
dramatic and striking even'.s in the
history of American politics. His re
moval from the office of governor of
Now Vork to the higher position of
justice of the Supreme- Court if the
United States in 1910 took him out of
the field of political and executive
activity, but he left a record as a pub
lic administrator of public good that
impressed not meerely New Yoik but
the entire country. So impressive it
was, so remarkable in its quiet but
determined aggressiveness, so just in
its application of the law to all men
with equal exactness, so filled with
sympathy expressed in action for the
downtrodden, so utterly undismayed by
j predatory opposition, so free from any
: indication of sinister influence, that it
was not forgotten io the years of jud
dicial retreat that followed; and when
the time came to select a candidate
for president possessing all the qualities
that a Republican candidate for presi
dent should have, and who at the same
should be Iree from the enmities or
jealousies of factional bias, the party
turned with an unparallcd unanimity
to Charles Evans Hughes.
Such is the man whom the Republi
can party has selected for its standard
bearer. The Republican party is still
the Republican party, proud of its rec
ord, convinced of the tightness of its
cause, lacing the future determined
and unafraid. With a vigorous and
irreproachable leader, with a vice
presidental candidate, himself of presi
dental stature, one who has the confi
dence aesteem of the entire nation
with a platform that every Republican
can support with ardor and sincerity,
with a situation in federal anministra
tion that demands a change, there can
be no doubt of the result. Mr. Roose
velt has shown by his effer to withdraw
in favor of Mr. Lodge that the Repub
lican party is satisfactory to him, and
he has shown by his conditional declin
ation of the Progressive nomination
that he is prepared to support the
nominee of the Republican convention
if his attitude on "the vital questions
of the day" meet with his approval.
This disposition to relinquish the power
he unquestionably holds in the interests
of the unity of the Republican party
merits, and will certainly receive, the
approbation of the country. Mr.
Roosevelt has shown by these acts the
sincerity if his Americanism. Even
his most devoted adherents, when the
tumult of the convention has passed
and they have arrived at a condition
for calm thought, must have condemned
a course that would have put personal
feelings above every honorable consid
eration ol the country's welfare. The
time has come to put aside every
thought that is not centered upon
the national good. Politics should
always be synonymous with patriotism,
but never was the synonym mere essen
tial than now. No anomosities should
be permitted to have weight, no person
al advantage should be allowed to hr
flieuc?; the sole question should be,
what is my duty to my country? In
answer to that question is to be found
the guile to the action of everyone
who believes in Republican principles,
whatever party name he may give to
himself.
The Republican pry has spoken.
It has no regrets aud uo doubts, and
it looks forward to November wile a
firm faith in the intelligence and patriot
ism of the people. Globe-Democrat.
A Fiddler's Contest
Colonel W. H. Harvey, president
of the Ozark Trails Association, will
give a fiddlers' contest at Monte Ne,
Arkansas, the evening of July 26th, to
which all the fiddlers of the Ozark
mountains are invited. He will enter
tain them free of expense while at
Monte Ne, and will give $25.00 cash
first premium or a $25.00 fiddle to the
winner as he may prefer. Also $10
second premium, and $5 third premi
um. Only Ozark mountain fiddlers'
will take part in this great feast of fid
dle music; and no one will be allowed
to enter who plays by note or who calls
the fiddle a "violin;" or who makes
his living by playing the fiddle. Col.
Harvey would like to receive a letter
from each one who expects to take
part, but this Jis not ntcessary, as all
fidd'ers who come are elligible, will
be cordially and hospitably received.
It is proposed and planned to be the
largest gathering of fiddlers' that has
ever occured in the Ozark mountains
Col. Harvey is very fond of music on
the fiddle and those who come with
their fiddles are assured of a royal good
time.
The Billings Times has been sold to
F. M Sullivan and Burress Boles.
They announce in their salutatory that
both are Republicans but will run an
independent paper. Guess that must
be a joke about a Republican being
independent. "There haint no such
an animal." And if they try it once
the Republican bosses will mighty
quick show them how cot to try it
- again. Ozark Democrat.
