THE BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 78.
BARRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
STRIKE KEY
TO VERDUN
Germans Continue the Bom
bardment of Fort Sou
ville Positions
NOTABLE SCHOOL EXERCISES
HAVE NOT LAUNCHED
INFANTRY ATTACKS
.German Attempts on Vosges
Front Were Unsuccessful
Paris, June 15. The Germans sre con
tinning a violent bombardment of French
positions north of Souville, the key to
tne inner defense of Verdun, to-aay s or
licial statement savs. No infantry fight
'ing occurred on either bank of the Mcuse
last night.
On the Vosges front some minor Ger
jnan attempts to attack the French line
were mado but they failed completely,
according to the official statement.
GERMAN AUXILIARY
CRUISER WAS SUNK
German Destroyer and Twelve Merchant
Ships Also Declared Destroyed By
Russians in Fight in Bal- '
tic Sea.
London, June 15. The German auxil
iary cruiser Herzmann has been attacked
and sunk in the Baltic southeast of
tockholm by four Russian torpedo boat
destroyers, according to Berlin. Reports
from Sweden and Denmark concerning
the fight say it was between Russian
torpedo craft and a German auxiliary
cruiser, some torpedo boats and armed
trawlers which were conveying oerma
merchantmen. In addition to the auxi
iary cruiser and a German destroyer, 1
merchantmen are said to have been sunk
Amsterdam, June 15, via London. The
following statement has been given out
in Berlin in connection with the attack
bv Russian warships in the Baltic:
"During the night of June 13 the Ger
man auxiliary cruiser Herzmann was at
tacked by four Russian destroyers in the
fight southeast of fctockholm. After
courageous resistance the vessel was set
afire by shells and was blown up by her
crew. The commander and most of tne
crew were saved."
BELGIANS CONTINUE
AFRICAN CONQUEST
Have Now Gained Control of Entire
Northwest Section of German East
Africa, Says Their Official .
Report.
Havre, via Paris, June IS. Substantial
progress for the Belgian forces invading
German .Last Africa, giving them con
trol of the entire northwest section of
the colony, is claimed in the official
statement issued by the Belgian war of
nee to-day.
HENRY II. ROSS
MASONIC MASTER
Burlington Man, After 15 Years as Sec
retary, Was Elevated to Position,
While His Brother, Frank A.
Ross, Takes the Other Position.
Burlington, June 15. At the closing
session here to-day of the Masonic grand
lodge, Henry H. Ross of Burlington ws
elected grand master, succeeding C. H.
Darling of Burlington. Mr. Ross has
been grand secretary for 15 years. Frank
A. Rovs, brother of the grand master,
was elected grand secretary; David A.
Elliott of White River Junction, deputy
grand muster; Edwin O. Wells of Lyn
donville, senior deacon; H. S. Harriman
of Middlebury . junior deacon; C. W.
Whitcomb of Proct.orsville, treasurer.
Burlington, June 15. At the annual
jneeting of the Masonic Veterans' asso
ciation last evening the following officers
were elected: Austin D. Paige of Lyn
donvillc, venerable chief ; H. T. Soever
of Barton, first associate; second asso
ciate, W. W. Jones of Windsor; K. L.
Wells of Lvndonville, veteran treasurer;
George F. Root of Xewport. veteran sec
retary; A. J. Hough of Brownsville, vet
eran chaplain; F. II. Babbitt of Bellows
Falls, veteran marshal; Charles A. Ijmg
of Montpelier, veteran sentinel. The as
sociation consists of those who have been
M ister Masons for 21 years or longer.
Charles H. Heaton has declined to serve
as grand treasurer of the grand council
and has been stiiveeded by Frank Adams
of Bellows Falls.
Mr. Heaton lis served for 3n years,
taking the office from Judge Hall. In
recognition of long and faithful service
t'ie grand council pissed a resolution of
thanks and donated $100 to Mr. Heaton.
Were Held at Vermont State Industrial
School.
Vergennes, June 15. A distinguished
company which included Gov. Charles V
Gates of Franklin, Judge J. K. Weeks of
Middlebury, chairman of the etate penal
board, Rev. D. J. O'SulIivan of (St.. Ai
bans. Representative V. A. Powell of
Richford end Supt. N. H. Loukes of the
house of correction at Rutland and May
or C. E. Stebbins were guests yesterday
of Supt. and Mrs. J. X. Bursa of the Ver
mont industrial school at tne commence
ment exercises of the school.
A class of 16 boys and girls who had
successfully completed the school course,
which for the first time in the history of
the school includes first year high school
work, were given their diplomas by Judge
Weeks. In addition to the students who
have completed this course at the Indus
trial school, eight others are students in
the sophomore and junior classes of the
ergennes high school and one Is a mem
ber of the graduating class of the high
school. The exercises demonstrated in
convincing fashion the great change
which has been wrought in the school,
changing it from a mere reformatory to
a school where boys and girls are edu
cated to become upright men and women.
The gift of complete equipment for the
school hospital by Mrs. J. E. Weeks,
which has been needed for some time,
was announced yesterday. '
The entire school, which now numbers
2S6 boys and girls, attended the gradua
tion exercises, which were preceded by a
fine band concert. A long and difficult
program of recitations and songs was
well rendered bv the participants and the
exercises were opened with the Lord's
prayer and closed by a flag salute bv the
members of the graduating class and the
singing of "America by the audience.
The dominant note of the entire after
noon's proceedings was the determina
tion of the children to become good
American citizens. The class chose as its
hero Abraham Lincoln and its motto,
Onwnrd Is OurAim.'
Brief addresses were made by Governor
Gates, Judge Weeks and Father O'Sulli-
van. Judge Weeks emphasized the ex
ceptional work of Superintendent Barss
and pleaded for larger opportunities for
the boys and girls of the school, whom he
complimented on their earnest efforts.
Governor Gates also complimented the
school on the success of the exercises and
dwelt upon the importance of daily work
in character building. He told the chil
dren to fight hard against wrong and to
strive to measure up to the expectations guns
of their friends. Father V Sullivan .
PUT A CHECK
ON RUSSIANS
PRUifING DEMONSTRATION
Austrians Are Reported to
Be Making Stand at
Czernowitz
REPULSE ATTACK
. EAST OF THE CITY
Held at the Farm of A. N. Stratton In
East Montpelier.
The pruning and spraying demonstra
tion on the farm of A. X. Stratton of
Eust Montpelier was, held as advertised
yesterday afternoon beginning about 2
o'clock. A total attendance of 37 was
registered, including the farmers of the
immediate vicinity and a few from sur
rounding towns, Montpelier and Calais. !
JLft Chairman of the
emphasized the importance of studying
WILSON POLICY
LIKE LINCOLN'S
SAYS JAMES
Germans Claim They De
feated Russians Near
Przewloka
Berlin, by wireless, June 15. The Aus
trian troops in Bukowina are making a
stand north of Czernowitz 'and are also
holding the Russians to the east of the
city. The repulse of. Russian attacks
from both these .directions is announced
in the official statement from' Vienna, is
sued June 14.
Berlin, by wireless, June 15. Russian
troops in dense formation attacked Teu
tonic lines near Przewloka but were re
pulsed, it was announced by the army
Headquarters to-day.
ITALIANS WON
IN SURPRISE ATTACK
Defeated Austrians East of Monfalcone
and Toole Several Hundred Prison
ers, Besides Seven Machine Guns.
Rome, via London, June 15. A sur
prise attack was made yesterday on Aus-
the work thoroughly in order to have a
clear complehension of what we want to
do before we start in trimming th,e trees.
The single stock and the umbrella or
scaffold form of prurtJhg young trees was
explained. If the trees are attended to
when they are young it will never be
I necessary to use an instrument for cut
ting larger than the common pruning
shears. .Different kinds of shears were
explained; also the different kinds of
saws to be used?
The gathering then went into the or
chard and illustrated on the different
trees the proper steps to take in guiding
the growth of the tree. The principle of
pruning lies in the fact that when we
cut off a limb the energy of the tree Is
thrown into the growing of the lateral
buds below where the cut is made, there
by serving o re-establish the equilibrium
which naturally exists between the foli
age and the root system of the tree.
Three trees of the same kind and of
bearing age were selected to carry out
the principle of demonstration. Two of
these trees were pruned and spraved;
the third was left to its own devices. A
meeting next fall will be held to compare
the results of this work.
One good specimen of flie oyster shell
bark louse was found. This disease oc
curs very infrequently in Washington
county. One large tree was pruned to
illustrate the possibilities of working
over our older orchards. When pruning
do not lie afraid to do a thorough job.
Old trees that contain dead wood will
stand severe cutting.
Mr. Stratton sprayed' a few trees in
Democratic National Con
vention Praised the Presi
dent's Act in 'Keeping the
Nation Out of War and
Lauded Other Acts of the
Democratic Administra
tion .
CONVENTION SLOW
ON SECOND DAY
VANCE McCORMICK
DEMOCRATIC CHAIRMAN
t
Washington, IX G.,' June 15.
Vance McOormick of Pennsylvania,
has been selected by President
Wilson to succeed William Mc
Combs as chairman of the Demo
cratic national convention.
peace had come and such a thing as the
world s war was impossible but that day
when the Christian heart shall rule the
world is not in sight. We must not mis
take dishonor for peace, as we cannot
mistake oppression for peace. Woodrow
Wilson and the Democratic party advo
cate an army big enough to make ag
gressors think the second time before
they strike a blow. Democracy wants
an army and a navy in keeping with the
dignity, pi-enervation and worth of this
great republic. We do not want a foot
of anybody else's soil, and, by the eternal
(iod, tliey shall not take a foot of ours.''
"During this administration we have
done more to build up n armv and navy
in three years than the Republican party
did in 40 years of its existence. More
has been dune to give the American peo
ple a navy and army in three months
than Colonel Roosevelt and Mr. Taft did
in II years.
Senator James spoke of the Republican
platform declaration for "a continuous
policy of national defense," declaring
that only two propositions for a con
tinuous policy ever had been made in
American history, one by the general
board of the navy in 1003, which was
AMERICANS
DEAD IN BATTLE
Two Killed, Seven Wounded,
in Engagement with
Mfrticans -
SIX-MEXICANS
REP0RTF. XILLED
Their Wo- ed at San Igna-
cio Vd Probably Car-
Juried Away ,
Rules Committee Recom-;
mended Unanimously That
the Nominations Be Made ;LTh T crT?
of the navy, and the other by President
To-night, Whether or Not J.VilMn in hi8 1lrs congress last
"Rocrviiirirvnc A7pri T?pnr1v
"vw SUFFRAGISTS ALARMED.
to Be Presented to the
. Convention
Fear that They May Fail to Get Plank
in Democratic Platform.
St. Louis, June 15. Suffragists who
are fighting for an equal rights plank
in the Democratic platform regard the
St. Louis, June 15. The second day of resolutions sub-committee appointed last
the afternoon with the following for- the Democratic national convention was night as none too favorable. Only three
mulfe, which Is meant for application aslealled to order at 11:46, the delegates members, including Senator Hollis of
soon as the blossoms fall, to combat the having been late in arriving. Just be- New Hampshire, are outspoken for suf-
apple scab, canker, codlin moth, railroad fore the session was called to order it frage, while four are airainst it and the
trian positions east of Monfalcone, the worm and bud moth: One gallon lime was announced the rules committee had other two are believed to hold the ad
ministrations view, which is for endorse
ment but not a constitutional amendment.
San Antonio, Tex., June 15. Two Amer
ican soldiers were killed early this morn-
ng at han Ignaeio, it is reported to Gen.
Funston, and six Mexicans in an engage
ment which began at 2 o'clock. It is
believed that several Mexicans were
wounded but were carried away. Seven
Americans were wounded.
The water-soaked clothing of the dead
Mexicans indicated that they had crossed
the river from Mexico. Major Gray be
gan the pursuit, and it is believed that
he has already followed or would chase
the bandits into Mexico.
FOUGHT ON U. S. SOIL.
official statement to-day announces. The
Italians captured the Austrian trenches
after severe engagements, taking several
hundred prisoners and seven machine
;:t5 hVtofd oK'.nl ITALIAN FLEET. SHELLS
AUSTRIAN POSITIONS
other friends' love for5 them. He told
them not to place instruction above edu
cation, and not to be afraid or embar
rassed when they left the school, as the
people of the state were their friends,
In closing, he made an eloquent plea for
the development of the spiritual welfare
of the children,
BOARD OF HEALTH ENJOINED.
Ships Bombarding Towns Along Istrian
Coast in Vicinity of Parenzo
and Trieste.
Rome, June 15. The Italian fleet is
now engaged in a violent bombardment
sulphur compound, two and one-half voted unanimously to recommend that
pounds arsenate of lead mixed in 40 gal- nominations be made to-night at 8
Ions of water. o'clock. The leaders of the convention
A short talk ensued about the prin- favor this plan whether or not the reso-
ciples of combating insects and fungus lutions are ready. ;
pests. These are divided into four Senator Ollie M. James of Kentucky
classes, bark diseases (oyster shell bark was introduced as the permanent chair
louse, San Jose scale , eating insect-, man of the convention and he began his
sucking insects and the apple, scab, speech.
BARRE MAN A WINNER.
Printed spray programs were distributed
telling how much and what kind of spray
to apply and the time to apply it. The
lime sulphur and arsenate of lead seems
to be effective on all but the sucking in
sects, ror these we
James' Speech.
"During three years of its national
control,'' said Senator James, "Democ
racy has enacted into law more progres
sive remedial legislation than the nation
D. M- Barclay Got Two Trophies at Trap
Shooting Tournament.
The Interstate association state cham
pionship event, part of the program of
the two days' tournament of the Ver
mont State Trapshooting association
held at Curtis park Tuesday and Wednes-
Americans Outnumbered the Mexicans,
140 to 100 Men,
Laredo, Texas, June 15. The San Ig
nacio fight took place on the American
side and Troops I and M of the Four
teenth cavalry under Major Gray were
engaged. I he Americans numbered 140
and the bandits about 100, of whom six
are said to have been killed and several
wounded.
COLONEL LUJAN,
BANDIT, CAPTURED
Was One of Villa's Most Prominent
Chieftains, and Was Engaged in
the Columbus Raid.
Field Headquarters, via radio to Co
lumbus, X. M., June 15. Colonel Pedro
Luian, a prominent Villa chieftain, was
captured yesterday by Captain Turner
of Troop M, Thirteenth cavalry, at Ha
cienda Tepehakens. Lujan was one of
the leaders of the Columbus raid, and
have to use a con- haf, evpr ha4 ritten upon it9 statute J';'"0- capture nearly completes the exter
n which will t A U..i.. s.i. t : 1 1 Barre with a score of 04 out of 100 I , ' , ... ,.. . . .
tact spray, that is, one which will stick kog pillce its birtn. In former national
to the bodies of the insects and suffocate
contests in the last two decades our
Concern.
.Rutland, June 15. A temporary re
straining order was served yesterday on
roat in the vicinitv of Pa renin and
In Action Brought By an Albany, N. V., Trieste, according to an official announce
ment yesterday
The Italian wr office yesterday an
nounced the repulse of Austrian attacks
1L. T 1- A. A A T'l
t, i n.. i ' .. i "ui un usnm inrat, west 01 Asiago. J ne
P,,i,iw rn,.-i. o r.;:...r r:::, ' wteme.nt said
Henry D. Holton of Brattleboro and - i:ti
p j . T .... , - . , , . inner a iuient ariuicry oomDarameni
Action Kt,7 r- kI t' TTc. ,n" made an attack on the night of June 12
trTrcoWwl Forni, A.ta CVmpaglia, Monte
iV. . ,7m I." "7 . P"1 everywhere.
...oi,! m i LuniAsiiMria vi nie iiuany ice i v..i-.j- it. - xaj t: i
L birrL '1 X. V, no t L hording our positions along the
to buy ice cream which contains less than L.i,i. , !..!.' i ; u v-
14 ner cent of hotter f.t . .....
1 flrM With Kfl f r a.ia. gf all nn 1 1 Kra "
iic uciciiuaiiio were Bcrveu wiwi wie
original restraining order granted by
Judge Harland B. Howe, directing them
ttWJn"Z TfjJt i"j,unction h0"" But Could Not Identify It in the Medi
not be granted the plaintiff company, the
i . , , , . . ' - I tarranain
nearing io oe neia at .Brattleboro June
2Z.
It is understood the state board of Canonic arrived to-dav from M-riitrrra
health has set as a standard for butter Lean port, reporting her detention four
fat in ice cream not less than 14 per days at Genoa where the nort was closed
A. JAV.i r i s a I . " . .
ceiii, ana iaai samples or ine proauci because of an Austrian submarine st-
trom the Albany concern did not meet tack on Porto Farravo on the Island of
this requirement. This is termed an "al- Corsica. The officers of the ship also
of the Austrian po.ition.on the Istrian '' .Zl" W-'T
ii-enm inH . . . . . . ciime wnn needs, nox. worus: wun nr-
FOUND WRECKAGE.
dtjes this trick.
DIDN'T HEED WHISTLE.
-Ju
formance, not promise. The Democratic
I party has kept its word with the Amer
ican people. AVe have made good."
Tl..l. .nt,,r. iiiiimnuii i tJic urn itMiuna ui urn uj. -
. ... . .11.,.. u n rams.
ii n, yi vri -inn i. u i n, a. oiitri ii.'g'j,,,,
donated bv the Montpelier Board of
Trade, making a score of 1S4 out of 200
The Montpelier Oun club carried off w" OUDml"ea lo "MMBl VVU5un T
practically all the honors, for Dr. C. H. Lansing. ,
U. S. REPLY TO CARRANZA.
Tul ..k-: : A I t U V
ineir t-ir airncK ey l rain near ratr Ha- " , 'V ' Z 7 i. a: failed to come through in first place. Dr. Lansing laid before President Wilson to
Burr was high general average for the day a complete draft of the note to Car
two days, making a score of 372 of 400 ranza replying to the demands that
ven-They Were Slightly Hurt. KTZrtZ Th'e Timo-
Fair Haven, June 15. Mr. and Mr, n. crats. he said, had enacted a tariff law
H. Beardsley of Ithaca. X. V the former under which monopolies were curbed and
a traveling representative of the Pitts- unexampled prosperity attained; a bank-
burg Water Meter company of Pitta- ing law taking the money control out of
burg, Pa., on their way to Burlington, I the hands of an oligarchy and- making
narrowly escaped being killed
when a Delaware & Hudson
train struck their machine at the "Rock
terranean
Boston, June 15. The White Star liner
told of passing steamer wreckage near
Gibraltar but could not identify it.
and was second to his teammate in the American troops be withdrawn from
interstate event, hanging up a score of Mexico. President Wilson and Set-retarv
80. His record on the first day of 1!)0 of Lansing conferred at length on the sit-
200 and Ms run of io witnout a miss uation.
whs not touched, even by any of the five Cnles-s some new development forces
the situation, the reply will not be sent
vr. Jni,- rr.oi,1., vilnn' r.l " ""-- " unui nexi wee at ine earnest. ira
Cut." .W. tun mil- Af .a. lean oolicv and hi. course in nrotectin K": "'"- " .. . . . .. ipresiunt and n,s aviers are anxious t
lv , ,. , , mem witn :04. u. M. Hare av third wirn .lo.i th ti. l o.n.,. nni in nh fnh.
Mr. Beardsley received a number of American rights against the encroach- ,Bn ,,, n, r,-,. ..rfh ..' .t-.I M . -.t.:u...j
iiiori aim mns. iwnrdsiey 111 BUnenntr ,lirin
.,L";r""", la mBcnlne r. ,,:.." ,r ..:i with 355. Forty-four amateurs and pro- retary Lansing, the note is understood
- .mraagen. , .r.n.r. ...... m ... fAssionals stflHed in the events, the
I hn n a. am,. ..... A - 1 i I ctrAntT ' I . I
'" t. irn.eiinR - - . . .pore, hune up in yesterday's shoot be- trnnn. fmm
. . ' inj mufh noortr thin ml thf frut ihv. I l. iliAim ;t. uillinrmeaa
nolitics. Senator " r " 7
I 1 I I 1 . 1 " 1 : A A. I . . if.. I I
,lim.,l f,.,t th. .....t. .A -h..A .Tame, .aid the renominstion of such a I . . "na -D"". l" lmT .m'u' r "--
MiMi;rhjcoM crmi president in partisan convention ought iVVAnfr-KUVAi,. 'd k rom?
tr.l .uI.a S 11 V. Lt. to he J.rv. nd that to discred- L. .. '... uggstion. in the Mexican commum-
..... v . tvm- . - - - - - ; , &naron woman tne tsnae or fortiano, cation which the officials regard as dis-
motive struck the rear of the automobile U h,m nllg!,t Pls' the nd thA eouId " a I "ni V,g rm.
the usual rate of speed and the engineer
sounded the whistle several times, it is of patriotism above
to decline to withdraw American
Mexico until the de facto
FOOT BADLY JAMMED.
leged standard of milk fat" by Uie plain
un in its prayer for an injunction
lhe prayer in part asks that all per
sons acting tor the state board be re
strained from proceeding against any of
wie plaintiffs customers or serving upon
ny of its customers verbal or written
notices to the effect that ice cream con
taining less than 14 per cent of milk fat
is either illegal or adulterated, or com
mencing or causing to be commenced any
actions of proceedings against the cus
tomers of the plaintiff or from taking
ny other steps or actions which will
interfere in any way with the business
or property of the plaintiff or the sale
of the ice cream manufactured bv it un
der or by color of the said alleged stand
rd of milk fat adopted by the defend
ant."
Dr. Charles F. Palton of Burlington,
secretary of the state board, is not
amed in the suit. The Albany concern
ships vast quantities of their product
: .. i c . 1 . 1 c
rn.njin, rri-i-iaii in urnnuswn n J ,m.l :. ;..,;.. 4 .11 tu.
.r 1 1 . - 1 Liai 1 r ratruu ii iiis iiniiniiiii - u v 1 n
nu iuiuina counups. . . . ,.j;. ,n in
i , rtj irr,iiTT mil n ibiikjh ,.i w., iv t'r
miles of this city to come to HarTe to
shop during the week of .lime 17 to June
week set apart during which all
out-of-town customers will have their 1 .vo,r purchases.
and both occupants of the car were write the peace treaty of the world.
thrown out. Mr. and Mrs. Beardsley
were brought to Hotel Allen and Dr.
Charles Griflin attended them.
On the first page of the special
trade week section of to-day's
Times there is an error which
makes a conflict in dates. The
correct date of trade week is June
17 to 24.
PURE FOOD VIOLATION.
Charged Against Middlebury Man By
i Federal Government.
railroad or other transportation fares re
ington. June 15.-United .State. Urd by the store, listed and according
Burl
IVptity Marshal Thomas Reeve of thi.
city went yesterday to Middlebury where
he arrested Charles Payment of that
town on a government indictment charg
ing violatkn of the pure food law. Mr.
leo Gauthier Fell with Ladder as He
Was Painting.
While painting on a building in the
rear of the old espitol hall on State
street, Montpelier, Ieo Gauthier fell
bout 10 o'clock this forenoon when the
ladder on which he was standing slipped
and he broke a bone in his foot. He waa
taken to the office of Dr. C. E. Chandler,
where the fracture was reduced. The
foot was badly crushed and it will be
eeveral weeks before he will be able to
resume work.
The President'! Charge.
Washington, June IS. la a t.z day
rech kere yetrday President Wilson
charged that there were some foresgn
V.rn rersiMis in the United States whs
re tnrirg to Ivy a kind of politic'
tJarkmail on the American pol.ttcal far
ties in Me interest of f-rreija got
cr.ts.
r. t 1 l 4 ,k:. . wnere en
..I" Al.:"" offered than right here. However, there
" I .4.11 1. .1. A
United States commissioner, where he
furnished bail in the amount of (.100 for
his appearance at the next terra of Unit
ed States court to be held in this city
next October, Ir H. Lafieur becoming
surety. Mr. Payment was indicted by
the grand jury at the February term of
Unitl State, court. The indictment is
brought on tb ground that he offered
meat for sale which wa. not f.t for son-
sumption.
In Probate Court.
In probate court the will of neT X
Cknton. late of Barre. has hem rrrif I
for probate. Katherine R. Cant.. 11 hasjthe benefit of two Saturdays buying
bn appointed guardian
Msy Cantoti. a miiK-r.
for FloretKe
I
Clerks' Notice.
RegtiJar Btin? of local 241, Friday.
.15 p. m. L!eti" of o t. 7fVn t
This, lie tAii, matt be stopped. JVpet to rtsut't. I'cr or Jer Kec. Sec.
MEANING OF BIG CO-OPERATIVE
SALE WHICH STARTS SATURDAY
An Invitation for Out-of-Town People to Come to Barre to Shop from Saturday,
June 17, to Saturday, June 34, When Railroad and Other Transpor
tation Fares Will Be Refunded and Special Bargains
Offered at Nearly Every Store in the City.
& I then whm rnu An vnti, kn ...
.......... ., ,.,B ,
Know just exactly where you are going
ami nat you arc looking for. Shop with
care. The merchant who advertises has
something to sell and is not afraid to
send out his message. When entering a
store, ask to see this or that article ad
vertised in The Times, and vou will be
directed promptly and save much time.
Ask for Refund Slip.
And don't forget to ask at the first
store which you visit of those listed to.
day for a fare-refund slip. Take the slip
xnn you to tne other listed stores and
have the clerks enter the amounts of
Then when you are fin.
Uhed shopping, bring the refund slin to
The Times office and get your fare back.
according to the schedule appearing on
page 1 of to-day's paper.
It is up to you, ojt-of-town shopper,
to sppreciate this. It won't cost you
sn'ything to come to Psrre to shop dur
ing this big co-operative sale.
A. P. Abbott Co., Dept. Store.
The Homer Fitts Co., Dept. Store.
Union Dry Goods Co.
Union Clothing Co.
F. H. Rogers & Co, Clothing.
Rogers' Walk-Over Boot Shop.
Moore Owens, Clothing and Shoes.
Shea's Shoe S'ore.
A. W. Badger it Co., Furniture. '
People s Shoe Store.
Lamorey Clothing Cc.
The If. D. Phelps Co, Hardware.
Mrs. W. F. Shepard. Millinery.
Mrs. Flora Foster, Millinery.
The Vaogban Store, Dry Goods.
B. W. Hooker ft Co, Furniture.
Tilden Shoe Co.
Frank McWhorter Ce, Clothing.
C. W. Avenll & Co, Hardware.
Barre Creamery Co.
Rxkwood Studio, Photegrapha.
Marrion's Cirar Store.
Rourse & Wilson, Millinery.
Bertha A. Beat tie. Art Oicdi.
H. A. Gould, Piaaos.
Bsrre Ssvtrgi Btak,
to the schedule appearing in the supple
ment with to-day s paper.
The people of Farre and those who are
accustomed to shop here know that there
is no better citT or town in the state
where greater buying opportunities are
or realise this. To acquaint such people
with the facts enumerated above. The
Times arranged for this special fare-re
funding sale week.
The Times wants to scqusint more
people with the bnying power and with
the excellence and high standard of Bsrre
tores. The bargains enumersted in the
advertising columns of tvdays paper are
many and attractive. They invite you to
shop. It will be shopping worth while.
The merchants hsve made extensive prep
arations for this svn-day special sale,
which will open Saturday and continue
11 of next week thu. git in the shopper
Tis timely, this sl. The summer needs
are npoa us, and it is just the time to do
your summer hoppicg. Read every ad
ertimnt in to-day's f sper. You are
not getting full value out of your psper
gnlm yoa read th advert isemeuts.
Te BK-rrbants lave enumerated tnsnv
cf tfce r rrI in.!uof mnt. F.'td them,
Me, Man in Barre.
At the outset the senator referred! David Stanley hvans, secretary of the
briefly to President Wilson's campaign railroad . M. C. A. in Portland. Me
against lobbying in Congress and pointed end Miss Harriet M. Percival of Sharon
out that under this administration the were married at me .Methodist parson
constitution had been amended for the age on French street yesterday by Rev
first time since the Civil war, when "we B. G. Lipsky. The bride bus been passing
freed the Senate from the control of the several weeks at her grandmother's home
great interests by making it elective byjln Sharon. Yesterday, in company with
the people at the polls." He then eulo- her grandmother, Mrs. Mary Morey, her
giied the Underwood-Simmons tariff act aunt, Miss Nellie Morey, and Dr. Evart
as one of which the party was justly I J. Stone of Sharon, she motored to Barre
proud. land met Mr. Evans. They went at once
courteous and uncalled for. Carranza
questioned the good faith of the Wash
ington administration and openly hinted
that Wilson had bis eyes on the Amer
ican political situation in dealing with
the border situation.
It is understood that the declaration
will plainly inform Carranza that his re
quest for a new statement regarding the
United States' intentions is wholly un
necessary 111 view of the consistency of
all previous utterances and actions bv
the president. It will be pointed out
Xot a schedule in it fosters a mono- to the parsonage and were pronounced at a friendly spirit has constantly been
!.. , Pnhli.an frionH. nifln Bjlll bV rantor I.fnakV. ii.n.ii,-u ,.,.,, ..lauu, , mm mr.
,.li ... it ,nn.,ll nlmo tu tnr!a Alii After a trin to Ronton Mr and Mrs.
the streets with idle men. produce a pan- Evans will pass a few weeks in the Maine operate for the extermination of the ban
ic. create soup houses and distress would woods, after which the groom will resume dl,,s ' d" to the hostility and suspicion
reign everywhere but we rejoice to-day I his duties in Portland, where the couple
to point, to an unexampled prosperity in are to make tneir home. .nr. bvans was
the nation with labor more generally em- an intimate aquaintanee of Rev.' Mr.
ployed, at higher rates, shorter hours, l.ipsky ouring tne laiiers pastorate in
Aiiuum, -vie.
exhibited bv the Mexicans.
40 WERE GRADUATED
and better conditions than ever before,
Our Republican friends tell us that after
the war is over poor, stricken, prostrate,
torn, bleeding Europe will take our home
market from us. I have no euch fear.
America is going to take the markets of
the world. But we shall cut from them
the last hope of Ira ing even a false is
sue, for we shsll pass a bill creating a
MARSH STANTON.
Barre Young Man Takes West Enosburg
Girl as Bride.
Stanley F. Marsh, son of Mrs. A. W.
Allen of Barre, and Miss Evelyn A. Stan
inn riancrhtpr nf fr. anrf Mm P A Stan.
tariff board to gather the facts created ton of Wpst r.nothurx. were married at
by new war conditions. ffl. hnm. fv, i,rifp'i n.r.nt. Wo, ),..
Turning to the federal reserve law. . .ft-r-Aon at .1 o'clock. Rpv Afr
Senator James declared that it alone nmitrlas. performing the nrrmnnv. Miss
averted a ranic at the outbreak of the r, f r.r Ux-A , H.fim,
march and the reremonv was witnessed
European war.
"Wtiat would have been the result if
the old Republican system had been in
effect.'' he asked. -The stock exchange.
In every city In the world were closed.
Europe poured its vast holdings in ple-
thsrgic streams upon our shores. Who
thinks thst the old Republican system of
finance under the guidance of those pa
triotic guardians would have been able
to withstand this mighty cataclysm? But
what was the reult ? Not a bank closed
ts doors not a laborer was thrown out
of employment : not a business wss
forced into bankmptcr ; but there stood
strong, serving the mse of mankind,
thi great legislative achievement of the
Democratic party. As the mster achieve
ment of Woodrow Wilson, to my mind,
next to keeping inn.rif(.(ViO people at
peace with the world, the historian will
record the federal reserve law."
IVi-Iaring that "velf -defense and prep
aration for it is as neressary now a er
before." the speaker pointed to the d-
minwtrst ion's prcpsre.tne program a
proof th.t the rrty belietefj in
rmrelne without militarism."
by intimate friends and relatives of the
bride and groom. After a short wedding
trip Mr. and Mrs. Marsh are to reside at
Sunnvside farm, where the groom is as
sociated with his mother in business.
They will be at home after July 1.
QUINCY FIRM SUES.
. Mcintosh & Co. Start Action Against
R. C Bowers Granite Co.
A. Mdntosh 4 Co.. grenite manufac
turer, of Quincy. Mass., have brought
suit in Wnshingt-m county court through
Attorney Fred L. Lsird sgsinst the R C.
Boners Granite company of Montpel'er
for tf). The plaintiffs seek to rwover
for one monument an! six markers, val
ued st fi."7.
From Montpelier High School, It Being
the 103d Class.
Graduation exercises of Montpelier high
school were held list evening in the
Montpelier citv hall auditorium. 4f mem
bers of the 103d cIass to be graduated
from the Washington county grammar
school being handed their diplomas br
I'rii.cipal Edward S. Abbott, who
severs his connection with the school this
year to go to Rutland high school.. The
first scholarship honors were awarded to
Miss Elnora Heed Blanchaid. daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. George Flanchard. who
is entitled to a University of Vermont
'liolsrhip; second hmmr to Flors M
roni and a Vermont scholarship to Henry
Edwards Perrin.
The procession of the seniors was fol
lowed by the invocation by Rev. F. Barn
by Leech, rector of Christ church. The
following is the progrsm which was ad
mirably rendered .- Salutatory. Mi Flora
Maroni: music. "Merry .tune." high school
chorus; oration. "Shakespesre and the
Prams." William Henry Fsruell; de-
mat ion. "A New Knj;!nd Prophet."
Mortimer Collin Tier.--. ray. "Th
Jreen Mountain Mste," Hsrel l,ertnj1
Rvle; music. ''o!.i.rs' C1iAm from
'"Fau-t." hirh school rhnnis; liwliim
tmn. -The Ijist !' Supper." Charles
Fdwird Ii;tea:n; recitation. "THe Fam
ine" fron "Hiatal Ha. f.rse Fdoa El
!: era t on. "V. dm t i"n nni tVe Fsrm "
Henry Kdwa'd Pirrm; sWi. try. E!
riors Hee l I'-lsnrhar : nrjsic. "To Te.
O Country." high hoot rfwi prn-
Marconi's New Wonder.
Ijondon. June IS Announcement was
made yester-iay that Wiliiam Marconi j t itwn of University of Vermont srlmlif
will bring out shortly new device hu-h iip to M- P r' ).sr,1 ard Ilenrv T.
pre- h ni l put an end to "ianjrer of i-ol'isioiss j Perrm: irir !:-'j of , !.? as hr PtiP
jrwtneen shirs in darkne or fee. It iral '.' r I t- "vtt; rrrif of rla'a
"In lfi." he cntniied. "1 at ten. led j.J--r!hed nmfle nlriiinf. easily :-c 1ir". e by W,i:m U.
the great peace cnfern held in I.n- mstaHed. k hch ill be operate! frm V-rt!ett. " of 2. r 1 ro.-s ty
das. I thought that the milktiuja of the bridge cf Uc atip. Jot rfc.ee t. iLUl'd of gradisatla class.
