Viv
.1~V T,1N1a
PUBLIHED K~K[YJ, ~'FIIAL PAPitR -OF PICKENS COUNTY SJUBSCIITO RO N~DLA~PR
Estalised 187.1"-Vofluh 46 PiNSs S, Cog JUNE 15, 1916
Mrs. Sarah Armathine McCord
Once agai . the circle of ldve has beer
roken. 1 At noon SAturday June 8
916, the, death angel visited our towr
and beorq the spirit of lfrsi-A. F, M.
Cord to the blessed home beyond. -Dur,
ing thet last ftw years of her. earthly
ite she **i.an almost constant sufferer,
but -she ..was seriously ill aonly thtee
weeks. All possible aid was given her,
but it was all insufficient. She.bore heV
suffering with a- pirit. of resignatior
notoften seen.
She was a devout wife, a .loving
-inotlier, an affetionate grandmother
and great grandmother and .p kind
neighbor. At all times s)hehad the wel
fare of her loved ones-ever atheart
even in her last hours her thoughts were
of them. Not alone in the home are we
to look to find evidence, of her worth.
When.opportunity offered she was ever
found in the place of div'me service,
ready-to- give her influence, her talent,
her words- for the help of others. She
was a great help in the -corpmunity
kind, thoughtful and sympathetic. The
sick and sorrowing fourid in -her a ready
friend. She seemed to have a happy
faculty for finding out when there was
aorrow and need. Many a heart has
been inspired with hope, many a tear
dried and many a home made brighter
and cheerful by her coming. She was
always ready and willing to .go where
she could be of help and comfort. How
she was- loved and honored was attested
by the large concourse tliat attended
her funeral service and the beautiful
I flowers that were sent in from many
places.
Mrs. McCord was a faithful metfrber
of the Baptist church for forty years.
Her place in' church and Sunday school
was never vacant when she wAs able to
get there. For yiahs she taught the
Bible class in the Sunday school, having
to resign owing to bad health. She was
one of the oldest and one of the most
faithful members of the Woman's Mis
sionary society. Several times she was
* president and vice-president of the so
eiety, discharging her duties faithfully.
Always ready 'and willing to do what
wss necessary, and as long as she was
able she was in her place at - every
meeting; hence she was always busy ir
its behalf.
Mrs. McCord was Miss Sarah Arma
thine Stansell prior to her marriage to
Mr. Archie F. McCord, October 25, 186t
-having celebrated their fiftieth anni
versary only last year.- She was the
daughter of Marshall and Elmina Wilson
Stansell and was born and reared in
Abbeelle county, having moved to Pick
ens county after her marriage.
She was the mother of six children,
three boys and three girls. Essie and
Willie passed away in childhood, while
Henry and James L. died in youngman
hood. - Two-daughters, Mrs. Mary Brown
of this city and Mrs. lone Strickland of
Atlanta, Ga., survive. She is also sur
vived by her husband and one sister,
Mrs. Fliza Jett of Atlanta, Ga. The
rest of her family, one sister and five
brothers, preceded her to the grave.
Three brothers went to the front in the
- war between the states, and many in
ten'esting -thirts. she could tell of the
hardships and woi-k for the soldiers.
She'was jnst blooming into womanhood
* at this time and married at the close of
the war.
* - Eight grandchildren and two great
grandchildren who had entwined their
.young hearts close to hers are left to
-# cherish her me~nory. It is hard to say
* farewell, but not for long. She is'still
the mother and grandmother to the dear
childrenr upon whom . she watched with
great care and the companion .still to
hirh who mnournsi earth's great loss, be
cause life and love are stronger than
death.
Funeral servides were conducted from
her late home Sunday afternoon by her
pastor, Dr. T. M. Galphin. The pall
O bearers were J. A. Allgood, E. F. Can.
- trell,.T. R. O'Dell, C. E. Bush, L. W.
Cartee and J. F. Crane.' The following
deacons of th'e First Baptist church
were honorary pall-bearers: R. T.
Y. Stewart, T.-A. Gary, W. T. O'Dell, W.
A. 'Watkins, J. A. Gary, E. B. Rich.
ardson, Z. L. Chamblin and Mr. Reyn
olds. The ladies of the Woman's Mis
siona-y society attended in a body and
atacted as hoorr escort..-e
body Nvss ald to rest in Enon cemeter3
under a bank of floral beauty. C. H.
Liberty, S. C.
Enrollment Books Open
- Books of enrollmernt for the Detno.
oratie voters of Pickens county are no~
onen and wi~ll remain open until July 26,
btvoters aeurged toenroll early.
Hnvigg .your naie 4n the books tw
~et*a~o oes nlot4Rntitlep you to voe
Ellison-Jameson
An interesting event was the weddir
of Miss Nettie Laurie Ellison to Dr.
Jameson, which occurred ip Easley la
gatardag Aftern6on, June 10, at 4.3
o'clock, at tie home of the bride's ps
rents, Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Ellison, oe
Bradley avenue.
The home was beautifully deco.xate
with sweetpeas and daisies, pink an,
white being the color scheme. 1I-th
hall the 'guests were received by Mrs
Luther Cely and-Mrs. Fplton Robinsor
- The bridal' party entered the pailor t
the strains of Mendielssohn's weddinj
march, played by Miss Lillian Georg
of Gainesville, Ga., and' in the soft gloN
of candlglight stood before the alta
with a backgrdund of evergreens, whil,
the- officiating minister, Rev. John D
Holler, pastor of the bride, performei
the ceremony,,the ring being used. Dr
Jumeson had as his best man Hal W
Hiott of Pickens, while Miss Bruch
Ellison, the bride's -sister, was maid 0:
honor.- Little Miss Addis Jameson -waj
the ring-bearor.
The bride was lovely in an exquisit4
dress of white duchess satin trimme(
with point lace-and made entraine. Thi
veil was gracefully caught about thf
head and held by orange blossoms. Shi
curried a beautiful shower bouquet o
,lilies of the valley. The maid of honor
Miss Brucie Ellison, was 'becoming3
attired in white net and carrying pint
sweetpeas. The bride's going-awa3
'suit vas a handsome one of black taf
feta and blue serge combined, with al
accessories to match.
The popularity of this couple was at
tested by the many useful and beauti
ful presents they received.
Immediately after the ceremony the
guests were invited into the dining
room, which was gracefully preside<
over by Miss Jessie Bryant of Green
ville and Mrs. E. W. Machen of Lau
rens. Here delicous pink and whiti
block cream and cake were served.
The bride and groom left in an auto
mobile for Greenville, where the:
boarded a 6.30 northbound car to visi
points on the Clinchfield & Ohio road i1
North Carolina and Tennessee for
week or ten days. after which they'wi
return to Easley, where they will mak
their home.
Dr..Jameson graduated from the At
lanta College of'Medicine in 1918, an
has built up a good-practiqe in'his hom
town. V(rs Jamesou is one of Easley'
most attractive young women, and he
friends in Easley are glad that she wil
continue to make her home there.
Delivers Great Sermon
Dr. David M. Ramsay delivered i
masterful sermon in the Baptist churcl
here Sunday night on "Alcohol and To
bacco. " He said that both were poison
and we wish that every boy in the lan<
could have heard him. Liquor kills mor4
men than war. Take a young man 2(
years old; if he is sober he is exl)ecte(
to live to be 64 years-that is the aver
age age. If he is a moderate drinkei
he is expected to live to be 61 year. _old
If he is a drunkard lhe is expected t<
live to be 36 years. The rattlesnak<
miightkill you, quicker, but liquior an<
cigarettes wvill surely kill you sooner o1
later.
Dr. Ramsay said'- he once usedh to
bacco, but said that he quit becausd o1
the offensive odor on his clothing, in hi
own home and among his peop~le. An
other reason wvas that it made him ner
vous and injured his health. Anothei
was that he could not afford to set at
example for his own boys and othei
boys to follow. There is poison enougi
in the paper out of which our boys mak4
make cigarettes to kill flies. There i:
also poison enou.gh to kill boys also.
If 'all our tobacco-using preacher
onkd 'give up their tobacco and put th4
money Into the treasury of the Lordi
would help greatly in paying the deb
on the hc~ine and foreign mission boards
Mrs, James Clement .Dead
Died at her home near Pickens on th<
7th inst., Mrs. Sallie Clement, wife o
Janmes Clement, after a short illness
age 22 years. She leaves a husbani
and two small children besides her fath
er-In-law and mother-in-Jaw, JMr. eani
Mrs. Camden Wyatt. Her funeral tool
place at Tabor church the day follow
ing her death after funeral services con
ducted by Rev. D). W. Hiott. Mrs
Clemient was a Miss James' before he
marriage and she leaves a father, mo~th
'er and one sistei- living near Easley
She -wis an industrious, kind hearte
Wohitp'and had the love and esteem o
her helghbo'rs. 'May God bless the be
rdted ones and especially care for th
helbless little chldren. .H.
ia0 0teia Porten, Speunt Tubada;
6 i~ Greenville.
LOCAL AND
Capt. W. D. Workpan a prominent
lawyer of Greenville, and George Cure
ton were in Pickens o 9 leiness Mon
day.
Mrs. E. C. Bowie, postmistress at
i Nimmons, has been quite sick recently,
3 but we are glad to state that she is
now much improved.
Married on last Sunday at the home
y of the officiating minister,. Rev. J. M.
3 Stewart, Mr. A. J. Clark and Miss
i Omie Barron, of Pickens.
r
Misses lnez and Mary Morris have
returned from Washington, D. C., where
they have been spending some time
with friends and relatives.
George Prince of Easley, who is well
known in Pickens, graduated at Clem
son college last week. There were 118
young men graduates in the class of
1916.
Mrs. W. M. Melton and son, Robert,
attended commencenent ..at Clemson
last week,.while Prof. Melton went to
the 25th anniversary of,.his class at
Wofford.
The county-to-county canvass by the
candidates for state offices begins in
Spartanburg next Tuesday, June 20th.
Wednesday they are in Gieenville and
Thursday they hit Pickens. Remember
the date-Thursday, June 22-one week
from today.
Miss Cleo Attaway, state organizer
for the W. C. T. U., delivered a thril
ling address at the Methodist church
here last Sunday afternoon on the work
their society is doing in the Interest of
prohibition. They are working for na
tion-wide prohibition.
Mr. A. J. Geary, foreman of the Toe
coa (Ga.) Record, spent the week-end
in Pickens with his boyhood friend,
t Lewis Burtnett. It was the first meet-.
ing of these "old boys" in over twenty
years, and to say it was a joyous one
would be expressing it mildly.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Calvin Garretteame
- to Pickens June 3 to spend a few days
I with his, parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
, Garrett. flefore returning to their
a home at Newberry, where Mr. Garrett
is manager for the .Bell Telephone Co.,
I they attended commencement exercises
at Clemson.
Dr. R. S. Saunders of Mt. Airy, Ga.,
pastor of Concord and Cedar Rock
churches in this county; was in the city
this week. He is a man of fine ability
and these churches are fortunate in se
curing his services.
John A. Horton, driving a Ford auto
mobile, was in, Pickens this week shak.j
ing hands with "the boys." Horton
knows the needs of the people, for he
was raised between the plow handles
and is a successful business man.
Earle Hudson of Atlanta, a freight
conductor for the Southern railway, re
ceived painful. hut not serious injuries
l&qst Tuesday afternoon in a collision be
tween his train a'nd a work train near'
Beverly between Liberty and Easley.
W. 0. Hester and family of Easley
spent one day last wveek with his par
ents, Mr'., and Mrs. M. F. Hester, in
Pickens. Mr. Hester' learned the print
er's trade in The Sentinel office many
Iyears ago and for the pant ten or eley
en years has been foreman of the Eas
ley Progress office.
Prof. R. T. Hallum, president of the
county superintendents' conference of
the state, has collected from the county'
superintendents of the state'a sufficient
sum to p)urchase a chest of silverware
which will be presenlted to State Super
bIntendent Swvearingen, who is to be
married in Greenville soon.
The Wonian's Christian Temperance
Union will hold its regular monthly
meeting Thursday afternoon at 4.30
o'clock at the home of Mrs. A. J. Boggs.
The program will be in charge of Mrs.
Gary Hliott. it will include interesting
readings on "The Flower Mission."~
- The members areurged-to meet prompt
I ly. Visitors are cordially invited.
Announcement was .made atFurman
. University commencement last Wednes
day night that Lawrence H. Bowen, an
r alumnus of Furman of the class of '13,!
. had been elected assistant Instructor in
mathematics for the next terih. Prof.
Bowen taught the past session at Fort
Lawn and two sessions In the Spartan
aeademy, and has specilzei imimath
ematics at the University'of- Chicago.
He is another of the manyPickens
.boys who have )nade good, being a son
of Mr. Reece Boweg, Wh o lIves near
town.
-PERSONAL
Prof. R. T. H allum, county superir
tendent of education, will attend th
equnty superintendpnts' conference an
summer school at Winthrop colled
next week.
The many friends of Mrs. H. B. Her
drix will regret to learn that she ha
been quite sick for the past few dayi
We hope that she will soon be restore
to her usual good health.
Mr. Burdine Hunt, who came her
from Texas several weeks ago to vis
friends, is spending some time in Picl
ens and Greenville withfriende and ol
acquaintances.-Seneca Journal.
The Pickens township singing conver
tion will meet with the Bethleher
church on the fourth Sunday in thl
month at 2 p. m. All singers especial
ly invited to attend and bring son
books.
Married in Greenville last Sunday a
the residence of the officiatingministei
Rev. S. T. Matthews, Miss Jessie Bell
Rowe to Mr. Fred Barnett. Miss Row
was the popular telephone operator a
Liberty.
Messrs. Willie Thompson and Dic
Martin left last Saturday for Detroli
Michigan, where Dick goes to resum
his duties in the garage of a large de
partment store and where Willie goe
to seek his fortune.
Miss Vesta Ashmore, who has so el
ficiently filled a position in the Picken
high school for a number of years, ha
accepted work in th.e 'school at Lee
ville, S. C., of which Prof. J. W. Bal
lentine is principal.
There will be an old folks' singing m
Concord the third Sunday in July; ala
a part of the time will be given to th
young people. Bring your Christia
Harmonies and other song books at
well-filled baskets. Everbody invite<
The Methodist meeting at Easley
being held under a large tent and is a
tracting large crowds. Rev. Danner
a strong preacher and the singing
fine. B. F. Parsons of Pickens is pia;
ing.the bass violin, which helps vej
much.
Our entire community sympathis
with D. G. Moore in the death of h:
beloved wife. Mr. and Mrs. Moore )i
ed here for several years and wer
much loved by our people. Mrs. Tyle
Moore, the mother of Mrs. D. G. Moor
and Mr. Moore's sister, Mrs. Jame
Gantt, are residents of our town.
Rev. John C. Bailey, of Liberty, an,
who is also pastor of the Pickens Pres
byterian church, preached the bacca
, "reate sermon to the members of th,
4,raduating class of the Citadel at thi
second Presbyterian church in Charles
ton last Sunday. Mr. Bailey is a grad
uate of the Citadel in the clsss of 1890
It is the custom of the Citadel to hav
the baccalaureate sermon preached b'
ministers who are graduates of the iri
stitution.
Trhe Pickens Chapter, UI. D). C., hell
a most interesting meeting at the hos
pitable home of Miss Nell Grandy las
Friday afternoon. Miss Emma Here
was present and read her admirabli
essay which won the beautiful nmeda
given by this chapter. Delightful re
freshments were served after the busi
ness of the meeting wvas over. Th<
Pickens Daughters are proud of thei
work and welt they may be, for it rank
with the best isn th.: state.
Mrs. J..L. Valley was hostess Wed
nesday afternoon at a miscellaneou
shower in honor of Miss Mary Lewis
whose marriage to Mr. Samuel Blryal
Craig takes place today. In a "flori
wecddmug" contest Miss Alberta Yongu
was awarded the prize, a box of beaut
iful correspondence cards. Then Aam
the feature of the afternoon, when ih
bride-elect was invited into onte corne
of the spacious porch where little Misse
Margaret Valley anel Virginia Lewi
showered the honor-guest with man
pretty and useful articles. A temptin
ice course was served by Misses Eli
Lewis and Florence Stewart.
A charming social event of the pat
*week was the sur~prise kitchen showt
given last Saturday morning to Mit
Mary Lewis by the members 'of he
Sunday school class, at the home of Mrs
J. T. Partridge. Each mhember of th
class was requested to write their fa'
orite receipt in a book which was pr<
sented to the bride-to-be. A delightfr
social hour was spent, after which d<
licious refrestynents 'were served b
Mrs. Partridge-and Miss Finley. The
Master FranK Partridge surprised th
bride-to-be by RIeeentig her with
wagonloadof kitchen utensils of a
kid. ri dnat pan to rolling pn..
Death of Mrs. Charlotte Anthony
Died at her home in the city of Green
ville on the 6th Inst., Mrs. Charlotte
Burdine Anthony. Her body was brought
, to her old home church at Griffin and
d buried the day following her death af
ter funeral services conducted by Rei.
0 D. W. Hiott. Mrs. Anthony was buri
ed on her 68th birthday. She had been
k. in bed for about fifteen months, suffer
ing intensely most of the time. At the
, time of her death she was a member
d of the Pendleton Street Baptist church.
She leaves six children and many rel
atives to weep for her. The sons are:
e William, Robert B., and John, all of
t this county, and her daughters are, Mrs.
E. F. Keith, of this county, and Misses
d Addie and Ida, of Greenville. Mrs.
Anthony was an aunt of Mrs. W. B.
Freeman and Mrs. John Roper of Pick
ens.
The Choir from Pickens consisting of:
Rev. L. E. Wiggins, Miss Eleanor
Knight, Miss Mildred Cox, Miss Flor
9 ence Bowen and Miss Nellie Grandy
furnished beautiful and appropriate
t music.
We offer our sincerest sympathy to
e the bereaved relatives.
e
t Pumpkintown "Deadhead" Stuff
k What has become of the man who,
not so long ago used to ask: ,"When do
you suppose it will rain?"
We are still stuck in the grass, and,
if we fall short on our English, "don't
fault us, we are writing this at red-hot
speed.
Easley Hendrix, who has been at
i Rosman, N. C., for some time, spent a
s few days visiting [relatives here last
- week. He didn't tell us anything much
about the Tar Heel State, and we are
of the opinion that he hasn't got any
tar on his heel yet.
0 We were pleasantly surprised to find
e Hal Hiott, brother of The Sentinel ed
*n Itor, at Oolenoy Sunday of last week.
d At first, ye scribe thought he was face
. to face with a real, live editor, and be
ing a book lover and having always liv
s ed in a part of the country where edit
ors are scarce, ye scribe was the vic
is tim of a mixture of emotions, delight,
as timidity and curiosity. Anyway, nov
Y- that we've seen an editor's brother,
.y we re going to see a real editor soon if
.we have to walk to Pickens, hunt up
Hal and get him to show us Gary.
is Well, here's another one from J. C.
r- Some christians met one Sunday
e All day long to preach and sing,
But oh! some "tough" had ajug of stuff
Which he decided to bring.
e The people brought their dinner out
8 And spread it on the ground,
But crooks were there who curse and
swear,
I With liquor all around!
Grand Jury Presentment
To His Honor, T. J. Mauldin. Presiding
Judge:
We, the grand jury, beg leave to
make this final presentment for this
L term of court:
y 1irst-We have passed on all bills
-hanped us by the solicitor and have ren
dered such verdicts as the evidence in
our opinion justified.
Second-The committee of our body
-visited the poor farm and found the af
fairs generally in good condition. The
farm is in excellent condition and the
premises are all clean and sanitary and
the inmates are apparently wvell cared
for. However, we recommend that the
sup~ervisor cell the second story of the
main building before next winter, and
that the steward keep a recordi of the
inmates showing those who enter and
those dlischalrged.
-Tlh i rd -The committee visited the
Scounty jail and found it in excellent
condition.
S Fourth--The committee appointedl to
linsp~ect the ebaingang found things in
Sfaily good condition, excep some minor
affairs, which have been reported to the
oFif th -The rural policemen have made
rtheir report and we find the same to be
Ssatisfactory and attach said report
Shereto.
~,Having discharged our full dluties as
best we see, we beg to be excused from
Sfurther attendlance at this term of
court. Respect fully submitted,
U. H. IENIC(KS, Foreman.
Court Adjourns
las t of general sessions adjourned
las Wednesday morning after being in
session a little more than two, days.
Only one case was tried other than was
lreportedl last week, that of the State
.vs R. M, Baker charged with forgery.
After being out about two hours the
jury returned a verdict of not guilty.
Solcitr onham stated that he had
mnyoenore term of court to attend
aPckns as solicitor,-.
Grogan-Bruce
We take the following acedo~ii zQ t1'h
Grogan-Bruce wedding from tfh W"A e
ton (GA.) Star. This was'an e of
unual interest because of the p
nonce and popularity of the contramting
parties. Mr. and Mrs. Bruce' AM
in Pickens Monday and are .at pr4 -
making their home with Mr. Bru6'c4
parents:
An event of interest to a large circle
offriends and relatlives was the marriage
of Miss May Starke Grogah to Mr. Ha
good Bruce of Pickena, 48. C.', which%
took place Tuesday afternoon at.6.80
o'clock at the home of the bride's pa
rents.
The lower floor of the house -was
thrown together for the occasion and
decorated with ferns, hydrangeas and
quantities of cut flowers. The bridal
party stood before an imprisoned altar
of ferns and hydrangeas benpath an
archway in the Npacious hall. The
trellis work of the arch was wreathed
in ferns, smilgx and white cut flowers,
and suspended from it by streamers of
white tulle were French baskets of pink
sweetpeas. The wedding party ap
proached the altar along- an aisle out
lined by ropes of tulle and smilax to the
strains of Mendelssohn's wedding
march, played by Mrs. H. P. Hunter,
with violin obligato by Miss Maude
Oliver, which changed to the music of
"Love's Greetings" during the cere
miony. The bride was given in marriage.
by her father, Judge George C. Grogan,
Rev. S. A. Harris reading the impies
sive service.
The bride was lovely in her wedding
gown of white crepe de chine, fashioned
short length and made with bands of
white taffeta. Her veil of tulle was
adjusted with a wreath of orange blos
soms and her only ornamerit was an
antiqe brooch, the gift. of her aunt...
The flowers were a shower bouquet of
bride's and valley lillies.
The maid of honor, Miss Kathleen
Grogan, wore a graceful gown of white
net and pink taffeta and carried pink
roses. The bridesmaid, Miss Frances.
Bruce, wore a quaint gown of white or
gandie made with a full skirt and short
bodice and carried an armful of pink
roses. The groom entered with his
brother, Mr. Sidney Bruce. -
An informal reception followed the..
ceremony. Punch was served by Miss
Minnie Cohen, Miss Mildred Payne, Miss
Marion Reeves and M iss Thelma Wright,
all of whom wore attractive lingerie
gowns. The punch bowl was banked IA
pink and white sweetpeas and ice esakes.
were also in pink -and whi.te.
The bride's mother was handsome hi
black crepe de chine and the groom's
mother, Mrs. J. McDuflie Bruee, of
Pickens, S. C., wore a beautiful toilet
in black satin.
Mr. and Mrs. Brice left on the north
bound vestibule for North Carolina,
where they will continue 'the wedding
trip by automobile. The bride's trav
eling gnwn was a tailored suit of grey
worn with a hat and accessories f the
same color. The young couple will
make their home in Pickens, S. C.,
where the groom has an enviable lle
in the business world. .Mrs. Bruce Wil
be greatly missed in Elberton society
of which she is one of the briitest
members and where her- beauty and
charm have endeared her to a host of
friends.
Among the out of town guests pres
ent at the ceremo'ny were Mr. arid Mrs.
,J. McDuflle Bruce, Miss Frances Bruce,
Mr. Sidney Bruce, Mrs. rCarry Thorn..
Icy, Miss Emily Thornley, Mir. and Mrs.
Bruce Hagood, and Mrs. T. J. Madildin
of Pickens, S. C., Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Grogan of Bell, Ga., Mrs. Gertrude
M'atthews, of Easley, S. C., Mrs. James
? ibble, Mr. James Tribble,' Jr., and
Mrs. Harry Geisberg. of Anderson, S.,
C., Mrs. Willard M. Gregory, of Atlan
ta, Mr. and Mrs. T. W. Hill, Mr. Wel
born. Hill and .Mrs. Mary S.. Hill, of
Tignall, Mr. and Mrs. H1. D. Jordan,
Mrs. Joseph Jones, Henry and Roy
Jones, of Rich Springs, S, C., Mr. and
Mrs. George C. Grogan, .Jr., of Okla
homa City, Miss Sara Goolsby and Mr.
Joe Stevens, of Carlton, Miss Ethel
Worsham of Covington.
Death of Miss Mona Hill.
Sunday morning, June 4, Miss Mona
Hill of the Dacuaville section, wa~ found
dead in bed. She seemed .in perfect
health the day before, so her suddert
death was wholly imexpected. Miss Hill
was about 40 years of age, a dauglitei'.
of Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Hill. Her father
miothe1 and several brothers ai sigtets
survive her. She was a devoted Chris
tian lady, having been a member of the ~
Cross Roads Baptist church. The ihtioi
ment took plaoe at the Cross 'U9ads
burial ground ont Moniday, Rev. D)W
prepching the fitherti sManon. - .
