Alliance H
4
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
3,000 Copies
12 Pages
1 Section1)
w -
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSO CIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1916
NUMBER 41
J5
The
1
jt try
Chairman imick Says, The President
Certainly aiiu Surely Been Re-Elected"
Either California or Minne
sota Will Be Enough
to Re-Seat
TIONW
NEBR.,
IMJQ
lY
IT
Cox, Russell, Unrig, Tash, Mounts,
Irish and Keegan Carried County.
Thomas Elected Over Harper
by Majority of 292. Gris
wold Leading Adams
ENTIRE DEMOCRATIC
STATE TICKET
ELECTED
BULLETINS
(Special dispatches to Alliance Herald ly International News
Service.) . . .
New York City, Jl a. in., Iov. ) uaiiiornia is me siaie inai win
decido things. Wilson is holding a small lead there. Minnesota is
very doubtful as tin; last hour's counting lias given Wilson a gain.
Both parti ;s are claiming New Mexico and Oregon. New Hampshire
is conceded for Wilson. Hot urns exceedingly slow all over.
St. Paul, Minn., 12:30 p. m. Hughes' lead in Minnesota cut to
307 at noon. Figures include all but oGi precincts.
San Francisco, Calif., 12:35 p. in. Wilson apparently carried
California by 4r23 votes. 550 precincts yet to come.
St. 1'aul, Minn., 1:05 p. m. With 314 precincts still out, Hughes
is leading by Sll.
San Francisco, 1:10 p. m. Further returns from scattering pre
cinots but principally from south where Hughes is strongest have re
duced WiUo.i's lead in California to 3592. Only 1G precincts remain
to be counted in Los Angeles county.
San Francisco, 2:30 p. in. With 412 precincts still unheard from
Wilson has u plurality of 3G41.
Albuquerque, N. M., 2:46 p. ni. Latest returns from New Mex
ico give Hughes a lead of only 250.
St. Paul, Minn., 2:50 p. m. Tughos h ading in Minnesota by 511
with 2GG precincts still out.
New York Citv. 3:05 p. in. ational Democratic Chairman Mc-
Cormick this afternoon sent til-grams to ;'U
men ill the count rv. ti 11 in ir them to"tfct nailv for ohi-l'ashioncil Deiu- all expenses. It is estimated that in
,' n , ,,,;! ( " th nelghborheod of 2.000 witnessed
ocratic c-eh hration tonight. .Ithegnne
New York City Chainnan Wilcox of tlie liepuhhcan National, Aiii.uil.;. i,ad improved on their in-
Cominittee. lull a confer, nee v.ith
ing. Sail '.c wonhl jnolmi'ly iss n- an ntiportant statenn nt soon. j
Los Angles, Calif., :':l- 1. in. Drmceratic National Committee
man Dockweller lliis afternoon claimed California for Wilson by
500. The U( publican committee issu. il a statenn tit that Hughes
wouhl carry soutln in California by .'10,00.').
St. I'iJil. Minn., .'1:45 p. in. With 21!) precincts still unreported
in Minnesota Hughes is hading by 501 votes,
San Francisco, 5:10 p. m. With 'YVJ precincts missing in Calif-'
omia Wilson has 453,21:1 ; Hughes has 450,501. Official count will
probably be necessary to decide. Balance of territory unreported is
Wilson territory.
(Special Dispatch from Omaha World-Herald)
Omaha, Nebr., 4 p. in. Four states are in doubt. They are Min
nesota, California, North Dakota and New Mexico. Wilson is gain
ing in California and Minnesota. Looks like Wilson's election, but
later returns are necessary for a statement to this effect. Hitchcock
for senator carried Nebraska by about 12,000. Neville for governor
carried Nebraska by about 5,000. Prohibition carried in Nebraska
by over 25,000. State Democratic ticket in Nebraska elected by Rafe
majorities.
(By long-distance telephone)
Kushville, Nebr., 4 :30 p. in. Lloyd Thomas for state representa
tive carried Sheridan county by a majority of 235. Thomas' vote
was 1001 and Harper's 700. (Note Thomas' vote in Box Butte
county was 099 and Harper's was 042, giving Thomas a majority of
57 in the county, or a total majority in the two counties of 21)2, not
including the mail votes which will give Thomas a majority of over
300.)
The entire Democratic ticket in Sheridan county was elected with
the exception of Bruce Hewitt, republican, who was elected as county
(Continued
iSN
THE LARGE
Y OF 30,000
) ;-n; ocra! ic state chair-
llnhi s late this aitcrnoon on Icav
on page 12)
ff ,
m If
f mm ymX
CHADRON NORMAL MET
DEFEAT HERE FRIDAY
Alliance High School 'ream Comes
I kick after Last Week's Defeat
with l; to O IVitory
fit-fort what was probably the
largest crowd that ever witnessed a
football game in Alliance, the Alli
ance high school football team de
feated the team fro'ii Chadron Nor
mal, Friday afternoon, by the declHr
Ive score of 43 to G.
The students were
force. Headed by the
paraded the business section of Alii-!'"
ance Fiiday afternoon more than two ,0 fifteen years. He Is the ne
1.000 Htronp and ended up by inarch- Pro who Bhot Sam Hall durinn a
inn in a body to the fair grounds to nerap over a crap name.
witness the time. Four hundred
tickets had been Hold about town, to
the business and professional men
I mid otliors. the two il.-ivn before nn
that the money was on hand to meet
I .nil. Mire nan iuiji
j !e, fei-once and had worked up u Ker-
ies of silent plays that were success
full beyond expectation. The one
touchdown made, by Chadron was
contorted on the grounds that an
Alliance palyer intercepted one of
Chadron's forward passeu and this
allowance let them cross the line.
The sad defeat ut Hot Springs the
u-ix.lr m-nt'lnna rouiiltiiH in on
denco of real "pep" Friday which
helped 4o a remarkable degree.
fit.li i
('hadron's fullback, Houston, In the
tirst play received a broken collar
bone, which compelled him to get
out of the grime at the end of the
first quarter. Wiley, Chadron's half,
got out of the game towards the last
with an injured knee.
Alliance's back Held waa a won
der. Kenning and Iotspeich took
yard after yard, while Dickenson
and Davenport put up an excellent
interference? A series of silent
plays by Alliance started the game
and made it possible to cross the
goal during the first five minutes.
Knd runs by Kenning and Lotspeich
and a fifty-yard dash by Duvenpprt
were features of Friday's game.
IIOMK FHOM OMAHA HOSPITAL
J. C. MeCorkle, who several weeks
ago received Injuries when a freight
train bumped into the Pullman In
which he was sleeping In the Omaha
yards and threw him out of his
berth, arrived honre Krlday night af
ter being In the hospital at Omaha
for about three weeks. Two ribs
were broken and he received other
internal injuries.
Has
FOUR SENTENCED TH
STATE PENITENTIARY
Juilue Westover I It-re Monday Held
SK ial Session of Court .Allow
Four to Plead (uilty
At a special term of the district
court held at tho court. house hero
Monday Judge Wcstovor cleaned up
several cases.
Frank H. Moore plead guilty to
the charge of rape against the person
of nn elpht-yoar-idd vlrl and wad
sentenced to twenty-five yearn at
hard labor In the rtato penitentiary.
out in full ; John Wilson plead guilty to ns
band. theviHu't with intent to kill and was giv-
an indeterminate Bcntciicii of from
t William Smith, who
assisted in
robbing the Knros store, plead t-uil-ty
and was given a sentence of one
to ten years. His partner escaped.
(ieorge M. Brown plead guilty to
obtaining money under faMn pretense
and was sentenced nnu to five years,
fined 100 and made to pay costs.
Florence Leon was given a divorce
from Io I,. Ieoii, was given the
care of the child, and allowed $2T. a
month alimony.
tiiomas isst i:s stti:mi:.t
I.teyd Thomas, business manager
of The Alliance Herald and representative-elect
fro i) the 73rd district
of Nebraska, issued the following
statement for publication this ufter-
!" " wvnu my neany
I" r.im-lT iiiciiinn lu lilt- 1111111
friends, in all political parties, who
by their good work und sincere ef
forts, so ably assisted in my election.
I know that my election is not due to
any political 'pull' or 'ring' but rath
er to the hard work done by my
friends. I wish to state to the vot
ers of Hox Uutto and Sheridan coun
ties that I expert to put forth every
effort to 'make good' during my term
in the state legislature."
IIIMI SCHOOL SIX'OM)
TKAM MKKTS HKFKAT
The Morrill high school football
eleven administered a defeat to the
second team of tho Alliance high
school at Morrill Saturday. The
score was 39 to 0. The local boys
did not expect to do a great deal, but
made the trip for the practice and
experience in burking up against a
strange team. They all had a good
time, thoroughly enjoying the trip.
The following boys made up the line
up: Oilman, Dillon, Uutler, Fleming,
O'Connor, Graham, Acheson. Wright,
Edwards, Carey, Dickenson and
Harnes. Butler waa Injured early
in the game and did not return to
play.
BURLINGTON EXTENSION IN .
NEBRASKA IS FORESEEN
Reported That Company Seriously Considers Building Extei sion t;
Sioux City Short Line from O'Neill to Alliance
Sioux City and Omaha Busy
Alllanco, already The Biggest Lit
tle City In Nebraska, has great pros-,
pects of becoming an even bigger '
city. With Increased railroad facili
ties It seems reasonable to believe
that the town should be materially
benefitted. It Is reported thnt Bur
lington olllclula plan on visiting at
Sioux City and down . the O'Neill
tdiort line and possibly to Alllanco In
tho near future.
l'oiii(lcr KxtciiMoti
It is stated that such a visit would
be taken to mean that the company
probably intends to build nn addi
tional lino In Nebraska, according to
a news story appearing In a recent
Issue of tho Sioux City Tribune. For
some time it has been known that the
comapny had under consideration
tho building of a line between
O'Neill and Alliance. A delegation
of Sioux City business men visited
the Burlington ofliclala at Chicago
about six months ago und reports
are to the effect that they left feel
ing very well over the possible out
come. Sioux City Is highly Interest
ed In this proposed line. The short
line now runs from Sioux City to
O'Neill and the extension would open
up a great territory clear to Alli
ance. Will Open up Territory
O'Neill und Alliance ure about
20 miles apart. A line connecting
this city and O'Neill would pass
through some fifteen towns. A con
necting link between Sioux City and
Alliance, passing through these
towns would be a 'boom to all con
cerned. It would open up new
trade territory to Sioux City whole
salers and provide all towns alone
the line with a now buying center,
causing more competition and as a
result better prices.
Itcudy for New 0erntlotiH
The Yutan cutoff of the Burling
ton road will be completed about the
first of the year. It will mark the
beginning of better service on the
Burlington between Sioux City, Om
aha and Kansas City. With tho com
pletion of the Yutan cutoff It is rea
sonable to expet-t tho road will start
new operations. The proposed ex
tension to the O'Neill short line will
give the Burlington a direct Denver
to Sioux City service with excellent
'connection at Sioux City for St. Pan!
and Minneapolis via the Croat North
ern und the St. Paul, Minneapolis
and Omaha.
Serious Talk Now
That the proposed extension is be
ing seriously talked of is shown by
tho fact that papers and magazine
are talking of It more or less. The
Omaha Trade Kxhlbit of recent Issue
carried a good story on the benefits
to be derived from tho line, com
menting on the country and how mii
extension would aid greatly In de
veloping this section.
Ijirk of llrancli Linos
By looking at a map of Nebraska
it will be seen Ih-it tho three li uin
lines of railroads in tho ttate rue
parallel to each other, leaving a ter
ritory between the various lines of
from forty to sixty miles in width
with no branch lines as feeders !
the main lines. This is true from
the west line of Buffalo county to
the center of Cheyenne county oi:
the south, and west or Norfolk on
the north line. In Custer couut
there are two hiaiich lines; in Car-
Held, two; and in Orecler, one
branch, all pointed northwe.-t. For
some reason tneso lines nave remain
ed Juht as they are for years.
Wonderful OpjM.rt unity
In recent years, particularly dur
ing the last seven years, hundreds of
people have located on homestead--In
this territory without competent
railroad facilities. These hometeud
have probably an urea of forty to
fifty per cent of the valuable agri
cultural lands on them. The whole
county is the best dairying country
In the state. All the so-called dry
valleys are splendid potato, corn and
alfalfa lands, which cannot be suc
cessfully utilized for want of facili
ties to market the products. As a
result these lands are given over to
grazing purposes.
Wrong InipresKlont Out
There is a general impression that
the territory mentioned is valuable
only for grazing purposes when the
fact Is that grazing this land is the
poorest use it ran be put to. It is
well known that this same territory
with railroad facilities would be
vastly more productive if the pres
ent homesteaders could remain on
the land, cultivate the soil, and raise
stock, than to finally sell out and the
land be then given over to grazing
exclusively.
Would Increase Traffic
If the paralleling roads would run
out feeder branches Into unoccupied
territory, the traffic of ! aln Ilm h
would In a few years be surprisingly
Incroasod. A groat number of towi
would spring up In what la no v
known as the sand-hill territory.
Nunc a Misnomer
Sand-hill territory Is u misnomer,
for tho country contains hundreds tf
thousands of acres of Jut as good
land us tho best agricultural land I i
Box Butte or Sheridan counties, r
any of the land along tln Nortl.
western. Much of it is more vulur
bio owing to the seepugo into tb i
dry valleys from the surrounding
hills. This seepage of wuter make
tho valleys more valuable for con .
potatoes, olfalfa and other fan i
crops.
Should (let Bnr
In the article appearing In tb.
Omaha Trado Kxhlbit tho Commei
clal Club of Omaha Is urged to li -vestlgate
the matter as tho develoj -ment
of this vaBt territory woul I
moan additional business to the job
ber and greatly Increase tho grali .
dairy products und stock receipts c
tho Omaha market. With bod
Sioux City and Omaha unxious fcr
UiIh undeveloped territory to be op
ened up, with the railroad ronton -plating
an extension, with tho grei t
possibilities- lying dormant, tt Beens
reasonable that tho Commercial Cluk
of Alliance i.liould get buoy nnmed -ately
in an effort to croali; additloi -al
Interest in the proposition. Th
extension Is hound to come rentier c
later. A Utile effort and co-opert-tlon
will bring it sooner, and tb
sooner it comes tho booit this ter
ritory and Alliance will bo benefitteo.
Would. Mean Many nrius
It is a well-known fuel that a lot
of Kjuail farmers will px- v mor
nnd -consume more thah 4. few, largi
ranch -rs. (living to t!i so peopin
tho advantages of rallroi ' transpoi
l.ilion would make po.,-ib. i a lot cf
s Mill farms where now a few larg t
holders are in control, who In a fov
years will buy up the l ind it a smail
price per acre and own al'. In a few
more years this land will be soli
back to the next lot of s tiers at i
big price. Thousands of v.crcs in .i
few years would be worth from 3
to $40 per acre, that now , o bogging
at from $3 to $5 per acre for war f.
of transportation facilites close it
hand and ut little expense.
fhiuigc Would I'niiovv
One has only to think of tl t
changed conditions in Nt'oiauki
brought about by the bra cliea fro. i
trie Burlington and Union Pacll.
rail roads in Custer, Sherman, Valley,
Creeley and Boon counties whfc i
th'-y were built. Later u grei t
change was brought about on th
lino from Niobrara to Dallas. The i
imagine tin changy that would fo'
low if Key Paha county all nort.
and west along the North vest era
could have branch feeders. And o1
ter all this Just (Hop and oonsldt r
the wonderful development ,(hi
would follow the proposed extensio I
from O'Neill went of the Sioux CH
short line to Alliance, or a branc i
of the North western from Oakda!-
through tliH unoccupied territory
we.;t to a junction at. Crawford v
i xtc r.io:is M.i.ie of th !,ranch i
of the Burlington and V. lilroad ;
that point northwest.
Wl.at a change woul I bi made I i
the central and south part of Hoi ,
Itock. Brown. Cherry and Slierida i
counties, in Box Butte, i. w 11 us I
other counties where th'.-re are ncr
adequate facilities for r.iarketin :
crops.
Kight now when the talk of th
O'Neill extension is sr-ioui tg tt.
lime to start things. 1 a- J ropost '
extension might join the n ; id Br at
a point east of Alliance r it
might continue through n-.'w terr -lory
until it arrived In Atlianee
eithcr pi in would mean gre it thinj
for this territory and Ailia-ice, ur I
It looks now ue if something was g.
ing to come of it all.
Bl KI.I.ViTON HKAKIMKX AHK
rilOMOTKD TO CO.VDl'tTOl i
Kvcn the railroads ure fc- ling tl
fleets of the prosperous condition t
iae country. November so far h.
been u record-breaking month, e -peeiully
for the C. H. & Q., while : i
years past there has been a considr -able
falling off of traffic about tl
middle of the month. Because . f
the increased business tho Burlin -ton
has found it expedient to pi -mote
tho following brakemen to co -ductors:
John Burke, Hay lloag. j
M. Stover, J. M. Johnson and M. F.
Lander. All have been steady a1 I
reliable employees for several yea
und have their promotions coming io
them.
m
