7
MAILS
From San Francisco
Siberia Maru. Nov. 10
For San Francisco
Nipl-on Maru. Nov. 11
From Vancouver
Makura. Not. 23.
For Vancouver -
Makura. Nor, 11.
Kvonirg I5ulWlri. Kst. lKS2. No.
Jl?waiiau Star. Vol XXIV. No ; 7GP
12 PAGEb HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, Til niKDAY. NOVEMBER i. Will. 12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
. . ..
ilijli Edition
mem
sasRa an ii mwt asm
I
jo)
"J
maw m mm msusm vwm
I
0
0
)
GERMANY WILLING
TO JOIN IN PLAN
FOR WORLD PEACE
Chancellor Says After War is
Over Nation Will Talk About
International League ..
DAY COMPARATIVELY
QUIET ON WAR FRONTS
Little Infantry Activity on West;
Russians Drive Back Von
Mackensen's Forces
...-"'( AaMM-Utpd'Prpoa by Federal S"irrl?nii)
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Nov. 9.
The Rumanians have occupied Hir
.sova. The Bulgarians are retreating
on the entire front, burning villages as
, they go.
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. 9. An
nouncement was made today by Dr.
von Eethmann-Hollweg, the German
chancellor, that after the end of the
war Germany will cooperate with oth
er nations in an endeavor to find a
practical means for procuring lasting
peace, by rreans of an international
league. .
LONDON, Eng., Nov. 9. Continuing
t beir offensive 1 the Dobrudja sec
tion, the Russians today, have driven
back ' the detachments of Gen. von
Mackensen's forces and are making
progress southward.
PARIS, France, Nov. 9. A German
attack on the Sallly-SaJissel line to
day was repulsed.
.--.There -was comparatively; little in
fantry activity during the day but the
artillery was active.
BERLIN, Germany, Nov. 9. Ger
man artillery today, defeated several
attempts -of the Allies to advance on
.the Somme sector.
FLYERS
MAKE MANY RAIDS
(German Oflu'ul)
I1ERLIN, Germany, Nov. 9. On the
night of Nov. 6-7 a German aeuoplnne
squadron bombarded French troop
ramp close west of ,Dois Gressaire
and Bois Celestine, north of Cerlsy nn
the Somme. Good results were ob
served, tents and barracks catching
me.
Another German, bombing squadron
on the same nisht bombarded a large
ammunition station at Eeersy, where
long trains were standing. Numerous
hits set fire to this station, which
is in the center of the ammunition sup
ply system for the French on the
Somme front The station and sur
roundins ammunition stocks burst into
flames and. the fire spread on the en
tire large ammunition depot, which
blew up in a continuous series of ex
plosions. Our brave flyer shelled the place
of conflagration and the jxxsitions of
the searchlight" with their machine
'guns. ..:
An enormous cloud of smoke rose
above the scene of conflagration and
was still noticeable at a height of 2S00
meters. Explosions were felt at St
Quentin by violent shocks. The in
tense glare of the fire could be seen
until daybreak.
Other German aero squadrons on
the same night bombarded about 20
villages and camps behind the hostile
front where Russians are quartered.
Results were shown in numerous con
flagrations. Railroad establishments
near Proyart and Amines were dam
aged by bomb-hits. One railroad train
in motion was destroyed by a full hit
from a bomb.
GERMAN ARMY HEADQUART
ERS, Nov. '8.- Northof the Somme to
day the fighting at. ity did not ex
ceed moderate limits. ,. ln the night
time English attacks between Lesars
and Gaedencourt broke down in our
fire. South of the Somme French at
tacks were fruitless. Oar detachments
lost the village of Prescire. Elsewhere
on thli front there, were lively artil
lery duels.
On the Crown Frinc;s front there
was some artillery fighting.
Eastern arena. Archduke Carls
front: Some lively fighting in Toel
gyes sector, enemy gaining further
small advantages. Ahead . of . Bozda
pass parts of our heights taken dur
ing the last few days by the Rumani
ans recaptured from them. In Bal
kans little new. Lively artillety ac
tivity in Struma front.
BLACK PLAGUE BREAKS OUT.
(Special Cable to Hawaii Slnnpo)
TOKIO, Nov. 9. Tc black plague
has occurred in theity of Yokkaichi,
eight cases being reported yesterday.
The health authorities announced to-
GER A
day that the disease came from India ! Two are dependents and the remain
and ia supposed .to have reached Ja-1 der are awaiting transportation to the
pan in cotton shipments. J industrial school at Waialee.
I NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY j
:'r': Yester
Today. day.
Al?ska Gold .
American Smelter ....
American Sugar Rfg . .
American Tel & Tel . , .
Araccnda Copper
Atchison . . . . , . . . .
Baldwin Loco. ..... . .
Baltimore &. Ohio. . .
Bethlehem Steel
Calif. Petroleum ......
Canadian Pacific .....
4 tl
111' 4
120! '
134
11014
119it
U3I4
9634
107
88
83V
. . . . 97
.... 106
.... 88'2
....
.... 22Vz
.... 172H
Paul) 9534
w. 55'2
.... 92?v
.... 38'2
.... 182
X.
23
173'9
54
92
38
182'
CM.& St. P. (St.
Cclo. Fuel & Iron. .
Crucible Steel .....
Erie Common .
General Electric ...
General Motors ....
Great Northern Pfd
Inter. Harv., N. J...
Kennecott Copper .
Lehigh R. R ...... .
New York Central.
Pennsylvania ......
Ray Consot. .......
Southern Pacific . .
Studebaker . .'. . , ...
X
4 n 1
119
118
. 54'',
. 83'2
.103',
- 573i
. 30 ,
.101 '4
. 123
; 22
.' 224! 2
. 124
118
54U
83
108.'2
58
29 44
101'.,
129',
22
225
150?;
Tennessee Copper .
Texas Oil .........
Union Pacific
U. S. Steel.........
U. S. Steel Pfd.....
121H
121 4 X-
Utah
Western Union ....
Westingrouse .....
11234 1124
1014 103 -z
66 - 63'-
Bid. fEx-dlvldend. JUnquoted.
NEW SERVICE
BY WIRELESS
NOVEMBER 16
4- -. v- v--.v
- The Marconi Wlrekss Tile-
graph Company In Honolulu has
been officially advised , by the
director general of the Japanese
department of communications
that the long-cqntemplatcd wire- 4
f less service between that coun-
4 trv throuch Hawaii to the whole
4- world will be inaugurated Novem-
ber 16. E. D. Pillsbury, general
superintendent of the Marconi
- Company of New York City,' who
has been ; here for sometime in--f
specting the local plants i and
making preparations for the new
venture in conjunction with V.
A. Winterbottonv the San Fran-
cisco superintendent gives out
this statement j
The Marconi Company has
been in. direct communication
with Japan for some time but
not officially. Messages have
4 teen sent back and forth several
times for tests which have prov-
cd very satisfactory. At the ores-
ent time all : messages both to
and from Japan and the main-4
land will be handled at the Ka- 4
huku plant Later the Marconi 4
people expect to use the Kahuku 4
plant only for sending purposes, 4
all messages to be received at the 4
now inactive plant at Koko Head. 4
4 4- 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
VILLA TO ATTACK
CHIHUAHUA CITY
'' '(Abociatcd Pre by Federal Vile.)
tttttft 4" 4 4 T- 4 4
4- ;;;.':..! ; 4
4 EL PASO. Cexas, Nov. 5.
4 I'ravelcrs arriving here tod.iy
tay that they believe .Villa is pre-4-
paring to .ittack Chihuahua City
with a large force of men. They
said that a special train is ready
4 to bring French and British to 4
4 the border and that the Chinese 4-
are leaving the city. : 4
4 4 4 4 4 4 4- 4- 4 4 4 4 4 4-44
GUARD OFFICERS MEET
WITH COL R;C. CR0XT0N
More than TOO men, including the
Fngin?ers Comr.any, will attend the
big encampment at Red Hill beginning
on November li, according to Col.
Richard C. Craxton, who met last
night with officers of the infantry to
tilk over the details of preiaration
for the gathering.
"I :lesired to meet all of the offi
cers of the 1st Infantry in a body,"
said Col. Croxton today. "We had not
all got together before to discuss the
workings of the guard." !
CoL Croxton spoke to the officers on
various phases cf the work, and pre
sided as chairman at the meeting.
Five boys are now confined in the
detention home on Xuuanu strppt.
KKSSHIJ How Electoral Vote
SMNON Sands: Latest News
AGAINST IWILEI
Manufacturers and Other In
dustries to Ask That Restrict
ed District Be Closed
i m po rta nt Inter ESTs
TO JOIN IN ACTION
Demands Will Be Presented to
Grand Jury, Judge and
Sheriff as Well
Chief development in the crusade
against commercialized vice today
was the information that heads or
manufacturing concern and other 1 us-
iness houses in Iwilei, are circulating
a petition to be signed by the variou?
business houses In that section of the
city asking that the restricted dis-
trict shall be closed. It is expected
that all or nearly all of the houses of
that section will sign it and it is to
be presented to the sheriff, the grand
jury and -udge Asnrord. t ouoing
us visit to tne resirictea aisinci yes
terday, no report has been rendered
as yet by the grand jury and none of
Ijs members talk of what progress has
been made in their investigations.
Sixteen Probable Signers
It was learned today from reliable
sources that a petition is being circu
lated among the 16 manufacturing con
cerns and Industrial corporations hav
ing their establishments inahe Iwilei
section, asking that commercialized
vice la Iwilei be abolished and the
district closed up.
This petition will be presented be
fore the close of the week to the grand
iury; Sheriff Rose and Judge Ashford.
It is being circulated by the heads of
several of the largest manufacturing
firtug in the Iwilei section,. who real
ize the evils of commercialized vice
there and the harm it has done in de
preciating realty values and In giving
the district a bad name generally..
The petition. U is expected, will be
signed by all or at least a large ma
jority of the concerns having iheir
chief business interests in the t'vilei
neighborhood. The petition requests
in emphatic and forHble language the
abolition cf vice in Iwilei and the en
tire closing up of all places in thf dis
trict where prostitution is carried on.
Large Interests Represented
Among the manufacturing firms and
Industrial corporations located in Iwi
ei and who it is expected will sign
the petition, several having already
dene so, are the following, represent
ing the biggest business firms in the
territory:
Oahu Railway & Land Company, ila
waiiant Pineapple Company, Hawai
ian 'Preserving Company, Hawaiian.
Fertilizer Company, Honolulu Gas
Company, City Mill Company, Levers
& Cooke, Bitulithic Paving & Concrete
Company, Waianae Lime Company,
Honolulu Soap Works, Associated Oil
Company, Standard Oil Company, ITn-
ion OH Company, American Can Com
pany, Ccyne Furniture Company,
i Gould & Asn.
3rand Jury Makes Trip
Taking the first step in their inves
tigation cf Honolulu's socalled "re
stricted district, the members cf the
territorial grand jury on Wednesday
afternoon visited Iwilei, led My Fore
man William II. McClellan. They re
turned to the grand jury room In the
Judiciary; building shortly after 3
o'clock. Another meeting of the grand
jurors Is scheduled for 2 'o'clock to
morrow afternoon, at which time it is
expeete-i the investigation will be con
tinued. The investigation was recom
mended by Circuit Judge : Ashford at
the request of City Attorney Arthur
M. Brown.
CAPT. M'CANDLESS TO
URGE BETTER INTEREST
The officers of Company K, 1st In
fantry, National Guard, will take se
rious steps soon if the attendance at
drill by the members of that command
does not Improve. Lack of interest
among the members of this company
has been noticeable of late as the at
tendance at drill has been very poor. I
; Capt John McCandless has an-,
nounceJ that ail members are request-j
ed to be present at drill tomorrow!
night so that an estimation may be ob-j
""t?Smpextnt'n;cnitic load announced yesterday having beenncreased in eacli
Seven men have not signed the new; state (hiring the returns of the nigllt. '
oath, yet. y gyjp FOR HUGHES i r .
SENATOR KEY PITTMAN ' Delaware is for Hughes, final returns showiug that the
0 F NEVADA REELECTED ' tae is gone Republican by the narrow margin of 806.
Senator Key Pittman of Nevada,
noted Democrat, has been reelected
by a majority of over 2000, according
to a cablegram received by his broth
er. Attorney Pittman, in Honolulu. The
Republicans had : hopes of defeating
Pittman but could not do it.
The table below gives the latest Information obtainable upon the way ,
the states went in the voting for presidential electors yesterday. Each
state is put in the Republican, Democratic or doubtful column upon the
best information which hat come by cable. After each state is put the
number of the electoral votes it possesses.
These standings are likely to be changed at any time by late news, but
this is the s!tuation as it stood this afternoon in New York:
Seven states with a total of 59 electoral votes are in the doubtful col
umn. Some or the states in the Wilson or Hughes column are slightly in
doubt but Indications point pretty clearly to their ultimate location. Thus
Washington is placed in the Wilson column, though opposing claims are
still made for It.
The changes in the three columns since yesterday's last extra are as
follows: ;,."'.
North Dakota has swung from the Hughes column to the doubtful col
umn. Idaho swung from the Hughes column to the Wilson column. To
offset the loss of . this total cf 9 .electoral votes, Hughes got Indiana out
of the doubtful column, with 15 votes, and Oregon with 5 votes. In neither
of these is the count complete, but the Indiana count gives Hughes a sub-
, stantiai leaa ana we latest reports
New Mexico, wnicn was put in tne
. tne oouditui coiumn, taKing j irom xne wuson totau But wuson nas aasa
Idaho, 4 votes; Arizona, 3 votes; Montana, 4 votes, and Nebraska 8 votes,
Arizona, Montana and Nebraska haying come out of the doubtful column,
j Of the states in the doubtful column, Wilson has the better chance,
j He Is leading in California, leading by a slight margin in New Hampshire,
likely to take North Dakota and New Mexico, where he is also leading,
Hughes appears to have. the better chance In Minnesota and West Virginia,
One feature which may upset all these electoral vote calculations is that
; jf the states are extremely close, there may be a split in the. electoral state
delegations. Tnus there might be a split in the New Hampshire vote of 4,
r possibly In the California vote, etc.
REPUBLICAN.
DEMOCRATIC.
Connecticut ....... 7 Alabama . .... .. ... 12 California . . ... 13
Delaware . ........ 3 Arizona . 3 Maine . 6
Illinois ........... 29 Arkansas .......... 9 Minnesota ........ 12
Indiana 15 Colorado 5 New Hampshire ... 4
,lowa U Florida ........... 6 North Dakota ....... 5
Massachusetts . . . . 13 Georgia ...... . . . 14 New Mexico ... . . . . 3
Micrtigan ......... '15 Idaho .. 4 West Virginia ..... 8
New Jersey 14 Kansas . . . . . . . . . . : 0 : V :
New York ... . .... 45 'Kentucky . ........ 13
Oregon 1.. 5 Louisiana ......... 10
Pennsylvania ..... 33 , Maryland ......... 8
Rhode Island .. J:. 5 Mississippi . ....... 10
South Dakota '..J..' 5 Missouri .......... 18
Vermont ; . . . .. . . 4 Montana . 4
Wisconsin . i. 13 Nebraska . ........ 8
Wyoming 3 Nevada 3
North Carolina 12
Ohio 24
Oklahoma .-, . '.-10
South Carolina 9 '..
Tennessee ........ 12
Texas 20
.. Virginia .... 12
Washington ....... 7
. Total . . . . . . . . . . .232 Total 248 Total 51
BULLETIN
Associated Trcsa Service hy Federal Wireleai)
NEW YORK, N. Y., Nov. 9. The returns in the elections
throughout the states for congress show that control of both
branches will still be, in Democratic hands. ;
The standing in the house, however, will be relatively
close. So far there are 212 Democrats certainly elected and 203
Republicans. Sixteen congressional district returns are miss
ing. Of these, seven are likely to be Democratc and nine
Republican. . . : :
NEW YORK, N. Y, Nov. 9. At 3 o'clock this afternoon
the presidential fight is so sensationally close thaj a demand
for a recount of the votes in the haH fought states is indicated.
With five states still in doubt; the national chairmen are
unwilling to concede anything decisive. Neither Chairman
Willcox of the Republicans nor Chairman ifrcCormick of the
Democrats will concede that the balance is swinging to the
opposition candidate. At both headquarters there is talk of
demanding an official recount of the ballots; each claiming
that its candidate is likely to get more votes than the count
has so far shown.
Both headquarters also announce that precautions are
being taken to guard the ballot boxes, evidence of the bitter
ness of the struggle.
NEW YORK, N. Y., Nov. 9. Henry Morgenthau, chairman
of the Democraticnational campaign finance committeewas in
I charge of Democratic headquarters early in the day in the
I absence of Vance McCormick. He asserted that a recount will
I be demanded of the vote in New Hampshire, where the race is
neck-and-neck and the Republicans claim the state has gone
for Hughes. . 'y-
Later in the day McCormick came down. He reiterated
his claim that the Democrats will have 288 electoral votes and
claimed that North Dakota, California, New Mexico and New
Hampshire are all for Wilson.
SURE FOR WILSON
Idaho will give its votes to Wilson by a plurality of 10,000.
Colorado and Kansas are
Charged with larceny, two little
Hawaiian girls, pupils at the Pohu
kaina school, were before Judge Whit
ney on Wednesaay. They confessed
having stolen small sums of money
from the principal. They were - lec
tured and placed on probation.
vv;--::v--k-
irom uregon inaicatea nis victsry mere.
wnson epiumn last nignt, is now in
DOUBTFUL.
certain for Wilson, the DeTRo-!
Two little Porto Rican boya, whose
father is alleged to be a habitual
drunkard and who refuses to allow
his sons to go to school, are looking
for a home. Inquiries should be ad
dressed to Juvenile Judge Whitney or
Probation Officer Leal, Judiciary
building.
HUGHES FORCES CLAIM W If
m HAMPSHIRE; DEMOCRATIC
LEAD IN CALIFORNIA LESSENS
As the presidential fight stands at 3:30 this afternoon,
judging by telearaoh news. California holds thp haianA in thn-
I hardest-fought national election
itaucio mi uaiiiuiiiid ctnu induuiidi manager wiiicox reiusea to
concede the state but Wilson is ahead. Hughes leads in Min
nesota. The fight is so close the outcome may not be known
for several days, and there is possibility then that a recount
will delay official decision.
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif., Nov. 9 At 4 o'clock this after
noon Wilson leads Hughes by 2325 votes, Hughes having
picked up 732 votes in the last 151 precincts. There are still
189 precincts to be heard from of the total of 5370. The count
now stands: Wilson 460,711, Hughes 458,385.
OMAHA, Neb., Nov. 9. Republican leaders concede, the
state to Wilson. Senator Gilbert Hitchcock, Democrat, is lead
ing John L. Kennedy for the senate. The congressional ticket
seems to be about evenly split between Democrats and Repub
licans. Prohibition has carried this state. ,
: CHICAGO, 111., Nov. 9. The North Dakota regiment of
infantry voted on the Mexican border, as did the Minnesota
regiment. The latter, with about 2136 votes, is at Llano :
Grande, Texas, and the status of the state may depend on the '
guardsmen's votes. The result will not be known for several
days, as the ballots have 1been forwarded to their home counties
for tabulation.
CHEYENNE, Wyoming, Nov.. 9. Clarence D. Clark, the :
Republican senator from Wyoming, has been defeated by John.
B. Kendrick, Democrat, by approximately 2800 votes. John'
Mondell, Republican, is leading John Clark for the lower house
by 304 i-otes. V, . '
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M , Nov. 9. With 411 precincts in '
the vote of New Mexico stands Wilson 22,448, Hughes 22,363. .
SEATTLE, Wash., Nov. 9. For the United States senate,
Miles Poindexter, Republican, is leading 158,068 to 107,147 for
George Turner, Democrat. Ernest Lister, Dempcrat and pres
ent governor, is leading Henry McBride, Republican, by nearly
10,000 votes. This is a reversal from earlier returns, which
showed McBride apparently winner. "
NEW VOHK, X. VM Xov. iK Democratic Chairman Mc
Cormick late today again claimed the election of Wilson.
Chairman Willcox of the Hepuhlican national committee again
refuses to concede tire election. Probability of a recount grows.
The Democrats hear from North Dakota and Minnesota that
both have gone for Wilson. President Wilson still declines to
comment on the situation.
liepublieans claim New Hampshire.
NEW YORK, N. Y., Nov. 9. With the chance that Hughes
will carry Minnesota, National
at 3 this afternoon stands by his statement that Hughes will
have at least 280 electoral votes. His confidence is backed by
the reports of Chester Rowell, the Republican chairman in
California, that the state is not lost, Rowell estimate4 at this
time that Hughes was 200 behind but refused to. concede and
has taken precautions to guard the accuracy of the count.
Democratic Chairman Cushing of California says ' that the
state will "go for Wilson by at least 500."
CONCORD, N. H., Nov. 9. Between midnight last night
and 8 this morning New Hampshire swung from the Hughes
to the Wilson column and stays there by an exceedingly narrow
margin, with the count drawing to a close. Last night Hughes
was 161 ahead in New Hampshire and the Democratic commit
tee then said it would apply for a recount. Early morning
returns switched the standing, giving Wilson before noon the
narrow margin of 93. The count progressed with Wilson
picking up a few and now stands Wilson 43.842, Hughes
43,721. Hughes 121 behind.
FARGO, N. D., Nov. 9. At 2 this afternoon Wilson had
pulled out a commanding lead over Hughes. This morning
Wilson was leading in North Dakota by about 1000 votes. , The
count now stands: Wilson 450,524, Hughes 446,684. Hughes '
is 3840 votes behind.
; CHARLESTON, W. Va., Nov. 9. With 1389 precincts
counted about the middle of the afternoon, Hughes has 118,763 ,
and Wilson 116,149. This state has 1713 precincts and Hughes
has gained slightly in the later counting.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Nov. 9. Indiana is apparently
safe in the Hughes column, with the vote standing this after
noon at 319,993 for Hughes and 311,506 for Wilson. Two hun
dred and thirty-seven precincts are still to be heard from.
TRENTON, N. J., Nov. 9. Hughes has won New Jersey
by a wide margin. His plurality is 54,774, with 25 small dis
tricts missing. ; '. v
of a generation. Republican
Chairman William R. Willcox
