~T
MILLE LAGSFORGOOD ROADSwithin
By a Vote of 1,175 to 1,074 Voters of the County
Declare in Favor of Issue of Bonds
for the Permanent Improve
ment of Roads.
Hughes Carries the County by Small Plurality
Kellogg Polls More Votes Than
Both of His Opponents
Schall Leads Jepson.
H. A. Garrison Elected Clerk of CourtSan-
ford Re-ElectedC^er and Eckdall
Re-ElectedSehlin De-
feats Warren.
Road-improvement, or rather the proposition to bond the coun-
ty in the sum of $75,000 for the improvement of roads, over-
shadowed all other issues in Mille Lacs county. The proposition
has been repeatedly stated in the columns of the Union and was
this: 147,000 for the hard-surfacing and permanent improve-
ment of roads in Mille Lacs county next year, of which S50,000
was to be furnished by the United States, $22,000 by the state
and county and $75,000 through a bond issue. The federal law
provides that only 50 per cent of the cost of improving any road
can be paid by the United States, hence a bond issue was necessary
to provide the means to meet the Federal aid. Here was an oppor-
tunity to secure $50,000 of government money for roads in our
county if the county would only meet it with a like amount. Surely
a good thing fo^ Mille Lacs county. It does seem as If there should
have been little opposition to the proposition. But there was
bitter and unfair opposition and from quarters least expected, and
had it not been for the campaign of education in public meetings
and through the columns of the Union the cause of progress and
better roads in Mille Lacs county would have received a set-back
from which it would not have recovered for years.
It was clearly demonstrated through the columns of the Union
and a dozen public meetings by Messrs. McMillan and Dunn, that
a bond issue did not necessarily mean an increase of taxes, and
those who opposed the bond issue were challenged to prove to
the contrary.
Here in Princeton village those who were opposed to a bond
issue were particularly virulent in their opposition and resorted to
disreputable tactics to create a prejudice in the minds of all who
would listen to them.
It is an easy matter to argue against a seeming increase in
taxes, especially when taxes are abnormally high as at present,
and many farmers actually believed that a bond issue of $75,000
-would bankrupt each one of them individually. It is not to be
wondered at that those people voted "no" on the question of issuing
bonds. But it is safe to assume that a large majority of the
farmers who voted in the negative labored under a misapprehen-
sion of the facts in the case.
Milaca did splendidly. That village gave 195 for to 75 against,
and Mr. J. A. Allen, cashier of the First National Bank at that
place, is entitled to great credit for the result in Milaca. Milaca
people, or at least those who voted "yes" on the proposition, will
never have cause to regret their action. Milaca town also did well
69 yes and 59 no.
We are not proud of the vote of Princeton village or town.
village 200 yes and 165 no town 110 yes and 135 no.
Milo was not so bad, neither was Borgholm. Foreston made a
good showing. Greenbush enjoys the distinction of giving the
largest anti-vote of any town in the county. The Fifth commis-
sioner districtthe lake regiongave 134 majority in favor of
the bonds. Dailey gave 28 for and only one against. Mudgett is
the banner town of the county it polled 12 votes and there were
12 votes for the bonds.
The total vote of the county was for the bonds 1,175, against
1^074, a majority of 101 in favor of the bonds.
Information received from Llano Grande is to the effect that
^every member of Co. who is a voter in Mille Lacs county, will
vote in favor of the bonds, and that means that the majority in
favor of the bonds will not be less than 130.
It was a close and hard fight but it was a decisive victory for
U. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9,1916
the friends of progress and road-improvement. A victory that will
a couple of years place Mille Lacs in the front rank of the
good roads counties of Minnesota.
Tuesday's Election Locally.
Tuesday was rather cloudy and gloomy, but owing to the
warm sunshiny days that preceded*it the roads were in fairly good
condition and a heavy vot^ was polled in Mille Lacs eounty.
For some time past it was evident to a close observer that
Wilson sentiment in the county was growing, but no one dreamt
that the democratic nominee would come within several hundred
votes of carrying the county. The total vote for Hughes in the
county is 1,113, for Wilson 1,108. The vote of the soldier boys
will probably give Hughes a lead of 30 votes. Never before in its
history has Mille Lacs given a smaller majority for a republican
presidential candidate.
Kellogg received a handsome vote for Senatormore than
Dan Lawler and Calderwood combined.
Burnquist for governor and all his colleagues on the republican
state ticket polled the full party vote.
Tommy Schall outdistanced Jepson although his plurality in
the county is not large. A tremendous lot of work was done, and
paid for by somebody, in Mille Lacs, Kanabec, Isanti, Anoka and
Chisago counties, in behalf of Jepson.
For local positions Garrison defeated King for clerk of court
Sanford was an easy victor over Lynch for judge of probate
Cater in the first commissioner district and Eckdall in the third
were re-elected James F. Warren was defeated by Peter Sehlin
in the fifth district.
When the returns are canvassed next week the vote will be
published in detail. The canvassing board will not meet until the
returns from the boys of company are received, probably next
Tuesday.
The Election in the Village.
Election passed off quietly in Princeton village and the total
vote was not what might be termed unusually heavy375. Messrs.
Clifton Cravens and Claire Smith acted as clerks and A. M. Davis,
Jas. Hartman and Ira G. Stanley were judges. All attended to
their duties in a commendable manner. Hughes carried the village
for president by four votes. Clerk of Court King had a lead of 40
in the village, and Commissioner Cat4*r eanied this precinct by 27.
In the village the state and national ticket was counted
first, the bonds second, the county ticket third and the amend-
ments last. The count was not completed until late the next
morning.
Princeton Town Election.
The election in Princeton town was held in the Ideal restaurant
building. A heavy vote was cast, a total of 253. Albert Kuhfield
and Aug Meyers were clerks, and Henry Marpe, Fred Eggert and
Henry Kunkel acted as judges. Needless to state the election
officials were all that could be desired. Hughes carried the town
over Wilson by 38 votes. Clerk of Court King had a lead of 12,
and Commissioner Cater carried the precinct by 69 votes.
The Election in Isanti County.
Considerable interest was manifested in Isanti county, and
President Wilson showed surprising strength although he lost
the county by 200 votes. The result was as follows: Hughes,
1,135 Wilson, 935.
The voters of our neighboring county stood by Congressman
Schall nobly, and he was an overwhelming favorite, receiving
1,410 votes to 668 for Jepson.
Clerk of Court Hanson was defeated by Erick Lindahl by 24
votes. Mr. Hanson has ever been a courteous and accommodating
official, and would doubtless have been re-elected had he not been
recently named cashier of the new Cambridge bank. Mr. Lindahl
is village recorder of Cambridge, and the clerk of court office will
be ably looked after by him.
There were two contests for county commissioner in Isanti
county. In the third district, comprising the towns of Wyanett,
Spencer Brook and Stanford, D. S. Walker easily outdistanced
Andrew Olander. Mr. Walker will make a splendid commissioner.
Erick Tolin succeeds Victor Erickson, who was a candidate for
re-election, in the first district, comprising the towns of Dalbo,
Maple Ridge and Stanchfield. Mr. Erickson was one of the best
commissioners Isanti county ever had. Mr. Tolin is a level-
headed farmer of Dalbo and is well qualified for the place.
Enger Elected.
There was a close race for commissioner in the Fifth district,
Sherburne county. W. S. Enger of Orrock defeated R. F. Brown
of Zimmerman by 14 votes. Both gentlemen were well qualified
for the place, and it was a foregone conclusion that the affairs of
the district would be well taken care of in case of the election of
either.
Maine
l^% ^-fcL *-&?-<ri
DEPENDS ON MINNESOTA
Claimed That Hughes Has 258 Electoral
Votes and With Minnesota's 12
Would Have 4 More
Than Enough.
Latest Returns From the State Gives Hughes
a Lead of 561 With 150 or
More Precincts Not
Reported as Yet.
St. Paul, 3 p. m.Republican National headquarters in New
York now claims that Hughes has 258 electoral votes, and with
Minnesota's 12 he would have 270, or four more than enough, as
266 are necessary to elect. California's vote is dividedeight for
Hughes and five for Wilson.
The result, it is claimed hinges on Minnesota's 12 electoral
votes. At this hour, with about 150 precincts to hear from,
Hughes hes a lead of 561 votes. It is thought that later returns
will increase Hughes' lead, and if he carries the state he will be
elected. ARNESON.
THE VERY LATEST--5 P. M.
.The annexed table gives Wilson 263 electoral votes, Hughes
243 votes, and there are 25 votes in doubt. To elect 266 votes are
necessary.
State Wilson. Hughes. Doubtful.
Alabama 12
Arizona .i r...^s^sss^rKr
\rkansaw 9
California Colorado 6
Connecticut 7
Delaware 3
Florida 6
Georgia 14
Idaho 4
Illinois 29
Indiana 15
Iowa 13
Kansas 10
Kentuckey 13
Louisiana
Maryland 8
Massachusetts 18
Michigan 15
Minnesota
VOLUME XL. NO. 47
"3
JV 10
Mississippi 10
Missouri 18
Montana 4
Nebraska 8
Nevada 3
New Hampshire 4
New Jersey 14
New Mexico 3
New York 45
North Carolina 12
North Dakota 5
Ohio 24
Oklahoma 10
Oregon 5
Pennsylvania 38
Rhode Island 5
South Carolina 9
South Dakota 5
Tennessee 12
Texas 20
Utah 4
Vermont 4
Virginia 12
Washington 7
West Virginia 8
Wisconsin 13
Wyoming 3
Totals 263 243 25
Wasenius Appointed.
The county commissioners named Olof Wasenius of Onamia
to succeed the late Guy Ewing as superintendent of schools. The
vote stood three for Mr. Wasenius to one for Mrs. Mossman. Mr.
Wasenius is editor of the Onamia Lake Breeze, and will undoubt-
edly fill the office satisfactorily.
13
6
12
