.-ST
FINANCIAL tDlTION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Euentng
STRAtv..
N.A
. "
v v
TTjrfwjjlTp3&j7jl
Iirttger
'n
. j v -
NIGHT
EXTRA
tojra.-xo. to
PHILADELPHIA, THTJBSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1916
CoriiiaiiT, 1010, t T-isFcsUi l.trati CovirNt.
PRICE ONE CENT
E-ELECTION OF WILSON
NOW APPEARS CERTAIN
lALIFQRNIA'S LATEST RETURNS
IEAVE LITTLE DOUBT THAT
- PRESIDENT IS THE VICTOR
fill Have 269 Votes In Electoral College
With New Hampshire and Minne
sota in the Doubtful
Column
'i .
tesults From 5692 Precincts Out of 5867 in Golden State
Show Wilson Has Lead of 5055 Votes, With
175 Precints Not Likely to M.ake
Change
ON THE FACE OF THE RETURNS IT APPEARS THAT
)DBOW WILSON HAS CARRIED CALIFORNIA AND THE
ION AND WILL BE RE-ELECTED BY NOT LESS THAN 269
SS IN THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE.
Editor of the Evening Ledger.
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal., Nov. 9. Latest returns from 5692
ids out of 5867 in California this afternoon gave Wilson
6,329, Hughes 451,274, a lead for Wilson of 5055 There are 175
acts to be heard from.
Early this aftcrnon it became evident from the returns coming from Cali-
uthat the Republican hope of a majority in that State for Hughes was
(Idly vanishing. Before 3 o'clock returns from enough districts of the State
ire received to indicate that there was little, if any, possibility of Mr. Hughes
aking the President's lead in the count of ballots.
Minnesota went over into tho Hughes column and North Dakota was placed
"tie Democratic list, but about noon returns seemed to indicate that tho
dent was gaining in the former State and the Hughes majority was being
ittleddown to 300 with a renewed possibility of Wilson carrying it.
' From If 17 out tf 1859 precincts in North Dakota the count is: Wilson, 50,819;
i 49.872. The. remaining 42 precincts are sparsely populated, and Demo-
l contend their entire registered vote cannot overcome the 847 lead Wilson
ltffter reports from New Mexico show Hughes-SS votes in the Ieaa with
m from 33G out of 638 precincts.
few' Hampshire went into the doubtful column today when the Secretary
te announced that an error in tabulation of the original count had given
ms a plurality of 161. The recount showed a plurality of 93 for Wilson.
I Republican leaders announced that a fecount would be demanded.
The extremely close voto in such States as New Hampshire and Minnesota
'mean that the ballots of the soldiers will determine the electoral vote.
rV .. . . I Vlnnfnvtnl ftn 1M
WTU. BHJJSB JKX "UUAKJJ THE .HALLUX' BOXES" uujici.tUJi i rureiui
I: The presidential situation today was one which pulled taut the already over
bed nerves of political managers. It was responsible for more acrimonious
anges between tho two sides than heretofore marked the campaign. It
at warnings from Democratic Chairman Mccormick to his cohorts to
d ballot boxes" lest there be tampering. It inspired Republican Chairman
ox bitterly to reply that any one intimating theft of votes by Republicans
I a contemptible scoundrel," and to issue a warning himself against stealing
presidency by the Democrats.
in at least one btate Mew Hampshire a recount and court action may be
Htry to reconcile flatly contradictory claims from both sides on com-
i returns.
Reports from West Virginia, credited to Hughes on the fifce of incomplete
rns but claimed as Democratic by the Wilson sunnorters. indicated tenseness
Ltke. partisan quarrel there might result in some of the "shotgun" activity
i marked the famous Hayes-Tilden presidential cpntroversy of 187C tho
Beta! mlxup most nearly paralleling the present situation.
& BHHflBc h
.aaVaaW VH') .aaVaVaVH
BBVBVJRPJH9BBVBb
aVaVH ' aHb4 H
vB" vi-hi
VaraVaT MBVararal V
Mv . i JtV V
XaaaVitt 'lawaH
bBVVVW&HP- laaSt
HUGHES LEAD CUT
BY LATE COUNT IN
MINNESOTA POLL
G. 0. P. Candidate Loses Big
Advantage Shown in
Early Tally
NEW PACES FOR SENATE
At tho top is J. O. Wolcott, who has
defeated Senator II. A. du Font, of
Delaware, in a closo contest in
whichIAlfred, I, diKEont thrAW his
Influence against he latter, his
cousin. '"Below is Frank B. Kellogg,
the "trust buster," who now come3
to the " Senate from Minnesota.
Third is James E. Watson, famed
as the Republican whip in former
Congresses, who has ousted Thomas
Taggart as one of Indiana's Sen-ators.
President by States
j
MEMBERSHIP OF CONGRESS WILL BE CLOSE
The next Congress will be .close, according to latest returns. To date 215
oilcans and 213 Democrats have been elected. Ihere ar,e four members
i other parties. The Republicans have probably lost tho Delaware Congress-
and a Democrat is chosen in his stead. Albert E. Polk succeeds Thomas W.
Another notable defeat is that of Thomas Scully, tho President's friend,
Ocean County. N. J., district.
The Socialists point to their growing strength. In 1912 they polled 900,000
i ior President,- This year they claim they will have 1,200,000; will elect
'nye members of State Legislatures In twenty-one States and get one
S.te members' of Congress.
MANY NEW FACES IN SENATE
The people seem to appreciate tho fact of being able to name the United
h senators. The popular voto system will result in many new fabes being
J the Senate next March. Hiram Johnson, who was vice presidential
lairaYe Of innflnnSnnl.ln ...Mia l.a Stni So lncn tinf iir. Ttu.lJ.nXnl
-- .vwvvw luujutt.jr, VT.II.u ww www . v v. www .mv vvi .vsiuviihui
va watch every vote counted with covetous eyes. Dr. J. Irwin France,
' Of the TnrrlR Tnatlfnfn. will fore-fit cchnnl tnnrhlno- nnil tnkn bin
1 the Senate from Maryland". Former Secretary of Slate Knox will be
uu irom rennsyivania ana Joscpn a. a reungnuysen, oi new jersey,
Renilnlfini rill .nH..A.AHi. llm. Cnta TliAmAa FafwrwMV- TnJtnnn
2BtUd from tho Senate and Raines E. Watgon, a well-known Republican,
oi numerous Congresses, takes his place. The coming of "Trust
Political circles. J. O. Wolcott, the young Delaware barrister, will
m bow, and another well-known Diamond State family will have its
' ogTavedion the rolls of that historic body.
J TTJ-TTirnTrVT MAVPO nATXIO '
.Arkansas refused to reneal U.i Rtate.wlde nrohlbition law and HiiViHtltiitB
M i.i . --iT- -
; njuon instead. Montana adopted prohibition by 16,000 majdrity, closing,
wno ana nineteen breweries. The votine of Tuesday closed, it is estl-
Pvly 4000 salons in tlje States of Michigan, South Dakota, Nebraska
vote of the Boldlera In tho field on the border "may have an im-
nng on the result In some States. It is said that the 4000 men
MUWHOta at th frnnt mair on ttmlr Tinllntn (n mirh n niimu. aa fn
t.th Hd In !. I ci.. mL- 11 Ml U. t.L.J 1. 1. ,i .
T?rnon had to fight their own battles, according to the latest returns.
;, Kansas give Wilson 9000 majority, while Governor Canner.
Bi S re-elected bv nearlv 100.000. John A Burnaulst. Renublicnn. nmn
ttt by a (tod ma'oritv. wW!e hn Rtatfi was foueht Inch bv inch liv ihn
' Preldmt. Simon Bamberger, a Democrat, will rule Utah, where
a have to long controlled the patronnaga. TImm " every indication
CorWaiL n will nrrnr.fr lu - '-1 ' 'Waal
i -- - w f'
TOTAI. ELECTORAL VOTE1, 8S1
'ECES3ABY TO A CHOICE, ZtS
Alabama ..
Arizona ..
Arkansas ............. ..
California ..
Colorado
Connecticut 7
Delaware 3
Florida
Georgia
Idaho ..
Illinois 29
Indiana 15
Iowa J 13
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana , ..
Maine ...K. .'. . '6
Maryland ..
Massachusetts 18
Michigan 15
'Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Jersey It
'New Hampshire
New York ; 45
New Mexico 3
North Carolina.,..,
North Dakota
Ohio
UKiamimu . . . ,
Oregon , 5
Pennsylvania , 38
Rhode Island 5
South Carolina.,.'
South Dakota .,. f S
Tennessee ............. .,
Texa ..
Utah ,.,,.... .
Vermont 4
Virginia ...... , ,
Washington .. . ,
West Virginia ...' 8
Wisconsin '.'.. 13
Wyoming
Wilton.
D.m.
12
3
9
13
6
6
14
4
10
13
10
f
10
18
4
8
3
12
b
24
10
12
20
4
12
7
SOLDIER VOTE A FACTOR
ST. PAUL, Minn., Nov. 9. Hughes's
lend in Minnesota had been cut to 307
at 11:40 o'clock today. The figures then
stood: Hughes, 169,483; Wilson,
169,126, with 2660 precincts heard from
out of 3021. It is possible the vote
of the soldiers 111 decide the election
in the State.
ST. TAUI Minn, Nov. 0 Chnrlcs Ii
HuRhti, who Is lending President Wilson In
Minnesota, today suffered reersnls that
reduced his plurality materially.
Republican State, headquarters nt 9:30
o'clock this morning claimed flRurcs com
plete from 20 counties In tho State show
ing Hughes leading by 1104. Later the
figure was reduced to below 500
Virtually nil tho largo normally Demo
cratic counties hao reported nnd most of
those stilt to bo heard from hao usuatly
gone Republican. Normal political com
plexions, however, hae failed so far, ex
cept In n few Instance". Judging from tho
trend In districts adjacent to those yet to
hear from. It Is believed Hughes will pull out
with a slight majority.
Tha result, however, may not be known
until tho votes cast by tho State guards
men on tho border are counted. This prob
ably will not bo before next week. Ap
proximately 2000 Minnesota guardsmen
were eligible to ote. nnd commissioners are
returning to the State with these ballots In
scaled envelopes, to be counted by the
canvassing boards In their respective pre
cincts. No Indication was given as to how
these men will vote, although ji unodlotal
straw voto In one, of tha regiments showed a
slight majority for 'Wilson.
Democratic leaders hero have held that
the State would go to tha President by 4600
votes, and so are not at all discouraged
by this eleventh-hour swing toward Hughes.
It Is the foreign voto that 'JU expected
to determine the result, and this, located
largely In the northern counties, has been
slow In reporting. It Is believed by the
Democrats that the President still has a
chance.
It Is noted here that Chairman McCsr
mlck does not claim Minnesota,
ELECTION DOUBT
AUGURS ANOTHER
BATTLE IN COURT
Tilden-Hayes Fray May Be
Repeated Because of
Close Vote
PARTIES PLAN CONTEST
Totals 24G 269
Doubtful States, New Hampshire
(4) and Minnesota (12). "
I.
Ffnds Father Hanging to Rafter
Ills father, Milton Pftnder, hanging life
less from a rafter was the spectacle en
countered by Fred PfHtder. 1Z02 Kttlng
street, when ha Went Into the stable to
call his parent to supper tast night, Tbs
tUiartaitr was lb Blight to,)w.va Uoam
jP" -ffW- r
Jt
A
aafSjk WW W rf" i
c
rcvf- ,
NEW TOnK. Nov. 9. Both Itepubllcans
and Democrats already hate taken steps to
force recounts of ballots on Tuesday's elec
tion In the close States. It seemed certain
today that there would be another great
contest which will rival In bitterness the
battle which marked the Hayes'Tllden con
fllct,
, It appeared that no matter who had the
majority In the electoral college on the facet
of the returns, he would have to fight for
his certificates.
The Republican National Committee Is
rallying to Its aid the greatest constitu
tional lawyers of tha country. So Is tho
Democracy, and the Initial right will be
made In the close States The Democrats
openly charge corruption In many of the
Eastern States, but especially In New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New York, New Jersey, IVest Virginia,
Indiana and Illinois. This the Itepubllcans
Indignantly deny, but the qharge Is certain
to be ntred In the courts.
STATEMENTS OK MANAOEItS
The ottnude- of the national chairmen Is
shown In the following statements, which
they gava out:
Chairman Wlllcox said:
Krrry precaution muit be taken to
secure !(( count of the ballots
In ercry close State, Anybody who
Intimates that Charles Brans Hushes
wpuld permit any man or group of
men to attempt to steal the presidency
for him ! a contemptible scoundrel
and know It,
I say further with a full aenae o(
rcipoBulbllHr to the American people,
that any man or group of inaii W,0 .,.
tempt to steal the presidency from Mr,
Iluflies will do so at their peril. v
Chairman McCormlck Issued the follow
ing statement In reply to the one made by
Mr. WlUcoxi
rfesldent Wilson Is re-elected, and
Mr. WIHeo shows he Is awars of
that fact. HI wall In reply to the
charge of some Imaginary person that
some on expect Mr, Iluglie or uls
manasara IU try to aaeure tha else,
tion throush fraud I worthy of th
bast traMMau af the WasabHraa party,
7b, prniltH has had ahaaaa ta Judge
" a, an
atajsajias s ssaaai Hassv tasaaaaa !Bta
J aSSWpaW aajpaajaa g WW
EXTRA
HUGHES HAS SLIGHT NEW MEXICO LEAD
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M.. Nov. O. Complete rcturnsv from 7i
precincts In Chaves, Valencia and San Miguel 6ountlcs give Hughe
4344 Wilson, 4170.
t
REPUBLICANS REFUSE TO CONCEDE NEW HAMPSHIRE
CONCOKD, N. H Nov. 0. The lU-pulilicim Sttitc uiRanUttum
refus'cd this afteinon to coueedo the State to Wilson, tlcyplte th
President's lead on the ffico of the unofficial returns
WILSON GETS MINNESOTA, SAYS NEWSPAPER POLL
ST. TAUti, Minn., Nov. O. Tho St. 1'aul Dally News on tele
phone nnd telegraphic returns fiom many missing precincts tabulutvil
100,810 votes for Wilson and 108,481 for Uughos, a lead of 1U2J ,
for Wilson in Minnesota. Thcbo flGUrcs arc uot official, but are
from official sources.
CONTEST ON VOTE IN MINNESOTA CERTATN
ST. PAUL, Nov. 0. Indications ao this nf let noon that no mat
tei how Minnesota's vote is tabulated there will be n demand for nn
offlcin.1 count nnd n piobablc court contcbt. Both Republican and
Dcmociats nic preparing for action this afternoon.
GERMANY TOLD POLES WILL AID HER IN WAR
BERLIN, Nov. 0. Chancellor von Bethmann Hollweg was told
today by "Lawyer Makovieczi, author Studnickl and Professor Hum
nlckl" that Poland will give its eons to fight in the ntmles of the
Central Powers, nb nn appreciation of the proclamation te-establi&n-ing
the Polish kingdom. .. J 4AUUi
PRESIDENT HOLDS
STEADILY TO GAIN
IN PIVOTAL STATE
1111 i
California Ballot Will De-
cide Issue in "Eyelash"
Finish
FEW PRECINCTS MISSING
Democrats Gain Confidence
From Strong Vote in South
ern Section '
10DAVS RACING RESULTS -
' ' ' r i h ,l.i y '
PlrstJPimUco race, selling,4 handicap, ait ages, G furlongs Olonm
ing, 116, ButWoll, S7.00, $2,0ty9.5CVV?on; Ting-a-ljup. 114, Ani
biose, $2.70, ?S.0O, iecond; truscan, 113, Robinson; JK3.SD, th(i(L
Time, 1.14, -m.i' 'w
Second Plnillco race, Elkridgo btecplechaucj 3-year-olds, 12 jniKt
Tho Brook, 132;'T. Tuokcy8lll,80,'?5.a0, $5t?0: Wu; Bcl.'MO, V,r.
Blnke, 85.90, 84.10, second; Simon Joneb,'130,D,,nolly. S?3 70, thtr'l
Time, 3.54.
Third Pimlico race, Juvenllo handicap, 2-year-olil, 6 furlongp
Cadillac, 110, Roblu&ou, 817.30, .OO, ?1.10, won; Mano'.tlu, tl
Butwell, S0.60, S5.70, uecond; Jock Scot, 113, Keojjb, S3 30, tljh "
Time, 1.13 4-5.
WILMINGTON MAN BETS ,100 TO 1 ON-WILSON
WILMINGTON, Del., Nov. 9. John Malsalsca was so confident of Wilson's
election this morning that he put up 1600 against' (5 on Wilson's winning-.
RIOT ATTENDS WILSON PARADE IN PRINCETON
PRINCETON, N. J., Nov. 9. A rlqt lrj which numerous persons received broken
bones and other injuries resulted when a parade of Wilson adherents marched
through the negro settlement here. Stones, sticks dnd fists were brought Into play,
and It required the efforts of tho entire Police Department to subdue the rioters.
CONGRESS HAS LAST WORD
IN ELECTORAL CONTESTS
THE Senate and House of Representatives, sitting in joint session and
voting concurrently, but separately, finally decide all contests where the
choice of presidential electors is called in question. This is provided for in
tho "presidential succession act" of 1880, which reads as follows:
Congress shaft be In s'es-
slon on tha second Wednesday In Feb
ruary succeeding eery meeting of the
electors. The Senate and House .of
Representatives shall meet In the
Hall ot the IIouso of Ilepresenta
thes at tho hour of one o'clock In
the afternoon, on that day. and the
President of tha Senate shall bo their
presiding officer. Two tellers shall
be previously appointed on tha part
of the Senate and two on the part of
the House of Representatives, to
whom shall be handed, as they are
opened by the President of tha Sen
ate, all the certificates and papers
purporting to be the certificates of
the electoral vote, which certificates
and papers shall be opened, presented,
and acted upon In the alphabetical
order of tho States, and
the votes havlpg been ascertained
and Counted the result of
the same shall be delivered to the
President of the Senate, who shall
thereupon announce the State ot the
vote, which announcement shall be
deemed a sufficient declaration of th"
persons, if any, elected President nnd
Vice President of the United States
Upon such reading of any
such certificate or .paper, the Presi
dent of the Senate shall call for
objections. If any, When
all objections so made shall
have been received and read, the
Senate shall thereupon withdraw, and
such objections Hhall be submitted to
the Senate for Its decision; and the
Speaker of the Hours of Representa
tives shall, in like manner, submit
such objections to the House of Rep
resentatives for Its decision; and no
electoral vote or votes from any State
which shall have been regularly given
by electors, whose appointment has
been lawfully certified to according
to section J pf this act, from which
but one return has been received,
shall be rejected : but the twp Houses
concurrently may reject the vote or
votes "when they agree that such voto
or votes have not been so regularly
given by electors vrho.se appointment
has been bo certified. If more 'than
one return or paper purporting to bo
a return from a State shall have
been received by the President of the
Senate, those votes, and those only,
shall be counted which shall have
been regularly given by the electors
who are shown by Uio determination
mentioned In , section 2 of this act
to have been appointed. If the de
termination In' said section provided .
for' shall have been made, or by such
successors, or substitutes. In case of a
vacancy in the board of electors-so
ascertained, as have been appointed
to illl such vacancy In the mode pro
vided by the laws of the State; but
In case there shall arise a question
which of two or more of such State
authorities determining what electors
have been appointed, as mentioned In
section 3 of this act, is the lawful
tribunal of such State, the votes reg
ularly given of those electors, and
those only, ot such State shall be
counted whose title as ejectors the
two houses, acting separately, shall
concurrently decide Is supported by
the decision of such State so author
ized by Its laws; and In such case of
more than one return or paper pur
porting to be a return from a State,
if there shall have been no such de
termination of the question In the
State aforesaid, then those votes, and
those only, shall be counted which
tha two houses shall concurrently de
cide were cast by lawful electors ap
pointed In accordance with the laws
of the State, unless the two houses,
acting separately, shall concurrently
decide 'such votes not to be lawful
'vote of the legally appointed elec
tors ot such State, But If the two
houses shall disagree In respect of
the counting of such votes, then and
In that case the votes of the electors
whose appointment shall have been
certified by the Executive of' the
State, under th seat therepf, shall
be counted When th) houses have
voted, they shall Immediately again
meet, and the presiding officer shall
then anilounce the decision of tha
questions submitted.
It la to h noted that the Drwsflt CeazrM. which ill decide any ennteat
In tfce ejaeeian juat held la strongly DemeeraUe in both brewnjui
:
I-
,
J,!1 ' '""
ri'Mf
.ivja
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9. California
hangs In the balance today as the count I
being told for Woodrow Wilson and Charles
Evans Hughes In their race for the presi
dency. The State also holds the scales
which will turn the Issue one way or the
other.
Tabulations of E472 precincts In Cajtfor
nla. Including corrections and revisions ot
earlier counts In some counties, showed WH
son leading by J96. The totals were: Wil
son, 4(0,261; Hughes, 435,865. An error
In reporting Mendocino County as having
cast nearly 15,000 votes Is corrected In this
total. This leaves 400 precincts to bo heard
from.
Lnto California returns, however, from
outlying precincts In tho State, with 5BS1
out of 5387 precincts, give Wilson a 35JJ
lead. The totals were: Hughes, 440,947;
Wilson. 444,480. This Included San Fran
cisco County complete, which gave Wilson j
a plurality of 15,094. Eleven hundred and
ninety four precincts In Los Angeles County
gave Hughes 130,941; Wilson, 112,205.
Tho missing precincts are mainly In
southern California, where Hughes la
strong, and there 1b a. strong posslblltly that
when returns from these como In the Wil
son lead will either be reduced greatly "tr
offset.
However, with only four small precincts
missing, San Diego County vote stands:
Hughes. 18,864 ; Wilson, 16,659. Democrat!
regard this as most encouraging.
Complete official returns from San Fran
cisco County give Wilson 78,481; Hughes,
63,357. Wilson's majority was 15.094.
Complete returns from 170 out of 17T
precincts In San Bernardino County glva
Hughes li.B18. Wilson 9171. El Dorado
County, complete, 38 precincts, glVia Wil
son 1733, Hughes 1055. Napa County com
ploto gives WHaon 3085, llughea 39S0.
Word -from three more outlying. Kr.
County precincts raised the total "vote of
ll2 out pf 122 precincts to Wilson 7287,
Hughes 454S.
The soldier vote on the border cannot
affect the California "election. It was pointed
out. California made no provision for her
militiamen out of the State's limits to vote.
Facing the outlook of an "eyelash" fin-
. a)
Contlnned on rase Toor. Column Ht
NEW HAMPSHIRE
REVISION PLACES
WILSON 81 AHEAD
Original Ballots Sent for
and Result May Be
Changed
CONTEST SEEMS CERTAIN)
CONCORD, N. H., Nov. 9. At 1:30 to
day Wilson's lead over -Hughes In New
Hampshire was announced at eighty-one
with all sections reported. Recounts are
constantly being received at Secretary v
Bean's office and In many. Instances they
show considerable changes from the first
reports.
"We have requested the clerks In all sec
tions to send in the original ballots at once,"
was the announcement of the Secretary ot
state's office shortly after noon.
"X recount will be commenced as soon
as they arrive and a further change is quit
possible," the secretary addd.
The Concord Patriot announced at 10:30
o'clock today that returns, official and un
official, from the whole State, with no
towns missing, showed Wilson carried the
SUte by 93 votes. t
MAvrmnsTER. N, II.. Nov, 9. The
Union, leading Republican paper of New
Hampshire, received a dispatch from the
State House representative today saying
that complete official returns in New Hamp
shire give the State to Woodrow Wilson by
93 votes. They say tabulations In the
Secretary of State's office completed foday
showed that Wilson had overturned
Hughes's lead of the earlier reports and
had carried the State.
NEW TORK, Nov, 9. George W. Per
kins, at Republican headquarters nt 10 30
VVHimuw vsa i -- -- ----- w 5
THE WEATHER
FohqcAST
For Philadelphia and yioinity In.,
creating eloudineu, probably follow
by rain late tonight and, Friday; AV
ly warmer tonight? etUor Fridmy?
strong vmthwett
XJKitoM r BA L
DHLAWAKK RlVWl' 'THBJ ftKANOJM
CttkWTNUT MMWfT
ESC we-ts:1!-. .; I : mt
THMfjau kTUwt a mum mum
TI(Tt ""iYTTflnr tf""ll'1i
t
1V,
A
'!
.-
H
V
-ai
