OKLAHOMA CITY TIMES
Paid Circulation Guaranteed Greater Than Any Other Evening Newspaper Published in Oklahoma.
HOMI
EDITIOfJ
LEASED VZZGFCm
VOL. XXV1IL NO. l!io.
OKLAHOMA CITY, Hill RSI) AY, N'OVLMBKR !, l'.)H5.
ik;ht auto i. a mi's at 5 47 p m
PRICE ONt CENT
ON THINS FIVE CENT.
NEW HAMPSHIRE SWIGS TO WILSON ON COMPLETE COUNT
5KS&i5l S Republicans Giving Up California;
VLUVI1U ;UUILLU VslIIUCIItllUltlll Ul UnLII Willi in
IF WILSON WINS ofFlynnLand MAY BE SPLIT
. - 0 - - -.,
Hughes Retains Lead in Minnesota
CclHuntion to IV Held Tonight
If Pirsi.J.Mit Is ricctod.
(inner
M.iy
Resident's
Be
('(!
fiopei ty
City
ALEXANDER
Gie.lte
R
MAKES CALL
esc
Sit.
hesideiiti.il lleetuis Voted in
I'.uty (lumps,
MAY VOTE VARIOUS WAYS
FORM CHART
ie
lie rr
I'.ll.ule
idert I
..i.i..i
Www
Willi iM
,1 I .
Hi
n
t i. itn n i .it f
'(Ill- 1 1 1 1 . 1 ! 1 1 1 1 k.; ill
1. w I'm li ah !
P. 'I I U'tial I. Li. f ivi, HI
MI in 1 mur
1 Irllim I .ill. 1. ,u. I
I l.in i tin- 1 1 I. I, 1 1 1
'r.itii. in tin il.m ut.iwn .1. lulls W rd
I'c-il.iv w.o pnnh iiiii 1 'iiij'l ii ,iin lh.il
ill.' IllJi W . r I, . Will I 1 1 1 1 1 1 .11 . .Illi'hl
v In n I in. 1 1 I ii'iit 1 - -li. w 1I-1 ill I In
n nil. 1 " I In- . . . .'ii, ii W i lli.
l.li'ht. th( .,s.r. I v. .is " V .1 thr s(.,r
r"ing lot Wil'i'ii ami 'In' '! .,it .! I Ii
' phi na'i ! 1 I. 1 Ii. ti law
Call Issued
( all I..I tin- .1 -1 I'll. lilt; ul " I i , i- l.rlll
'i! Mil"!1-" 111 "I it Ilu. kins ..Minn"
.inghl In "ilu M up tight" was sounded
till', niniiiiiii' In W I. li .111.I.T, stale
treason r .mil r 1 n In ' mint
"Vti.i'igrnirnts l"i tin- . .'I. !r.itnui if
W 1 1 i 1 wins win' g.ung forward "his
iin irnnii; under tin- .lit. , lion .it Mr
Ale v.lllil.i
Wil son Followers
Hold Celebration
I n.. Ill'l.ltl'UI .'I IHIU'I . II
ill l.ill. I nw lied l I Irlilils I I l hli.
I'tlll'i .1. legate tn l ! 1 f v '
.t k t Ii V till' I 111 ul Oklahoma I lt II
.1 petition fil.'l ill district 1. nut tin
III', 1 long I hi- proprttv 1. 1 1.1 1 1 n( I
I. Hi'l tu lie ll-nl bv til'' My ill 1 1'li-tnn t
1111; its lit'- iriri uiir and water-sulk--i
- H ill, I tie irlilnin asks Judge (Ml
II. 'M tu ll'pitst Mlrtlll I'.IHIull tn at-
in'il appruyts In 'l.'lri mini' llir n.iIii-'
t tin- r 1 it-1 1
A. . hi ding I" llir 1 it-l 11 H hi, l I I 1 ! 1 1
ll t'.l-l'.l .ill oil. Is lll.lill' l.v llir it v ('it
llu- I.iml, w Imii, it is '.nil 'I' ( tu ,1 In
luiiu in the I him liniiii'-ii'.i'l
A I !. s, .Is- -.t,llll llllll'li ll.ll
i i'iiii-i 1l"i . this morning -.ml thai ad
'lltl.'ll.tl lllls would In- lll.'.l III llir
distint 1 1 mi t ol Oklahoma an, I la
li.l'li.HI 1 m 1 1 1 - t.iiiiiitrnw mottling
DEMOCRATS TO
RETAIN CONTROL
OF LOWER HOUSE
liienc
May
West
i use One Vot'.'
Viicini.i.
Party Needs Ten of Twenty
One Doubtful Districts,
N'l W 1 ( M.'K. N'i.v 'I IvMnnis
j till- cli-itniit (nr nienihrts "I
( Ikl.'lll.niia ilrtlliirr.H V, Ill'M III stls
K nr ,h tu llir tr-tilts in llir rlr. t n HI, '
rr.iiM'rnl -r-tnilav Initn llir ill r(
lets nl l!n n,i Hughes returns of t tie
night liefnrr, ami last night gave v.nt
1.1 their iettl li feelings in perhaps
the greatest . elrliral n 'II in history ul
nr Mat. i nr mints .., -Mis,.,, a.. rrlv,., , , , vllk ,,,,. shwf,
l.err.il, pat i'lnl thr -, nviit, , ,1 Mrrrt v ,,MlMi r.(, al( ,,,, ;lls
....tr, llirir Imriis. wl'H. ami nia.le ,., w, Mv,,.l.1 (,,,r,s t vet ar
i i - I lir Mrcrts w.rr ia. kn atiil , , ollMtr, f,ir
jaiiiinr.l witlijIiiiMianili. i'f iiicii. uimieti: s,,.lt. f t.s, ,iXtrni iltrirt are
;it)i ilnlilretl ulin t)i lirei W tlon hail
wmi.
Mr ( .iiimti.ti I'e.iple .i Ihr niit
tanilnii; (iKitrr in tlir rkliralinii. Kail
mail turn, lalnnm, i lerk, llir worker,
flip rntmtiiiii irnilr, wet Mtprfmr.
Here are s.imr of llir thiit(( that
were "pulleil .iff " :
(Jn .r Jiulc (at rvini; tlir iin. ripti""
"( ) erlmKer' -liirt" Mas a raKKnl Har
mful Mirrifl' lliiiinlt was lirl.l hv (rieml
--w i u m im n, v.-. I'"- i
,:hl i, I a M'l" ' I" '"lal '' ""'
,.t r i nt. 1 1' in t alil.it ma ami c -pr
. i.ilK i, n mailt- Ilk. U Ihi. . -let H',11
I,. , ..ii . ,,t thr -i la'' hinti "t J .l
1,1 . , t rpilhll, ,111 pi I sl'lrlll l.ll 1 1. , ti .r , In
thr i n I n .i I iwh lie. an U ail.i' e I - i-iii
,, III. ",l " I "I lll-l.lll. I . sll'illl't
I liu'in . .it i I alilnrtiia. ilu i a
; p.,-sil,ilt. ,, iIm.ii l.iktfw M.te
ill, in the -tali tu ihr elri t ii at . 1 'lltv
Votrd in f'aily Cioupi.
In i .i 1 1 1 1 ii ma pit" nit ni i.il i h ' '"' -.in-
',i I in part i'i"iip-. t.i'h liavitik.'
, lint I. rn hi n llir . all.. I -af i an
I.im.iI 1 1 1 1 r tilt ptr'lil.illlal rlr, !l. 11'
'.rniiik; tlir hihi l nt.iK ate iril.iir.
i I. . tnl ,iinl".te irrtitir'l i ihr m,ii
! tar) i.t v,itr
i Mv Vnlr Vmnnit Wiva
i Ihr M'irr in.ii' .ast ln hail. t ' i ! Maiachuett
i .1 1 1 v parly nrntip as a uliulr. m lie niav
"te in! i lei In! in all the paitits, mi
InfiK as In tlnrs ii.,t ntr tut iiimi' than
lllltlrtil ,
l.unis H M.'.'s.r, nietiihii nt ihe
ileiiiin ratn state irnlt.il mmiiiittrr, ami
ii r iliairman nf the .praker'. romttnl
Ire o( the natititial ilt mm rati.' cninniit
. tee, isstinl thr iiilkiwinn statement in
In-half ul (I K. ( iisliniK. (Iiairttian nf
i llir tliiii... tatir state central i tniitilitler
Absolutely Ponitivr.
"r have ( alitninia. We arr ahsn-
Inlrh imsitne. Mr I ti-Iitnic is ( liei h
' nil: lip Itiv fimtres maile ttitiitilltillt
STANDING IN ELECTORAL COLLEGE
State Wilton Hughes Doubtful
Alabama 12
Arizona 3
Arkantat 9
California 13
Colorado 6
Connecticut . . 7
Delaware ' 3
Florida 6
Georgia . O 14
Idaho 4
lllinoit
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas 10
Kentucky 13
Louisiana 10
Maine
i Marvland 8
29
15
13
New Mexico and North
Dakota Are Doubtful
As to Final Outcome
Complete Unofficial Count Gives Eastern
State to Wilson; Executive Also Lead
ing in North Dakota; Recounts Certain
to Be Demanded in All Doubtful States.
Michigan
Minnesota
Miuouri 18
18
15
12
Mississippi
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico . . .
10
4
8
3
4
CONCORD, N. H., Nov. 9. The complete fig
ures of New Hampshire showing a plurality of 117 for
Wilson presidential electors -are based on certified re
turns to the secretary of state from 240 precincts out
of a total of 294, added to press returns from 54 pre
cincts. The secretary is checking up the press returns
with those certified as the latter come in. The two
precincts which were missing until this afternoon gave
a total of 11 votes for Hughes and 7 for -Wilson.
'Iritiurratir in thr prrsrnt roiiKrrss ami
ti me arr irpuhli. an, Mi..ult rath krrp
fi Ilt present political kffiliation Ihr
iinint wmilil st.'i'nl ;
Democrat. IV); rrptiliticani, 212;
which w until ivr thr ileum, rati a ma
jority of thrrr ovrr thr 212 rrfitihlicaru
ami four rrirrtrntalivrt of othrr par
tirt in thr house.
ELECTION CUTS BANK
New York
thr North Carolina 12
tiKtcss mlit ami mi (ar has found thrill mf ; North Dakota
reel I hesr I'turcs shmv tc havr tlir QJ,j0 .... .. 24
slate I ..in fliim that I "s Annclcs , , , -n
coiinn mvrs llurlics a 22.il"" lr.nl we Uklahoma IU
will still .am t alifnrnia tor Wilsint : Oregon
b at least ii otes" . Pennsylvania
Memlter, of thr local tlrmocra.K RhHje ,UlM,
tatr central t iMtitrntter rttalill.thc'l m .. -
Rttar.l l. ..lay at thr ..ral courthouse, 1 3wulh Crolm . r.T. . T - V
uhrrr Alamnla county's ballots arr hr- South Dakota .....,.
mis- iahnlatr.1. ; Tennessee 12
One Nsm Uft Off. j J.e 20
( IIAKI KSTON. XT.'Va . Nov. ') -If Utah 4
Charles K. Iliivhrs carrirs rst ir- Vermont
I kimia he tnav havr only seven rlrc- ' Vj trjnia 12
Washington 7
14
45
5
38
5
CONCORD, N. H., Nov. 9. New Hampshire
complete but only partly certified to the secretary of
state, gives Hughes 43,732, Wilson 43,849; Wilson's
plurality 117.
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9. Chester H. Rowell,
republican state central committee chairman, said at
9:10 o'clock this morning that estimated county totals
for all of California showed Hughes running 200 votes
behind President Wilson. Rowell declined to concede
California, but said that every precaution is to be
taken to safeguard the accuracy of the count remain
ing to be accomplished.
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9. Five thousand five
hundred and ten precincts out of 5,917 in California
-give Hughes 448,194, Wilson 451,703; Wilson plural
ity 3,509.
tural vote instead of thr riht which'
Hail not last Tuesday hrrn rtrrtion I
I.t v. ami consequently a legal holiday. I
Oklahoma City hank clearniKt for til''
I week rndiiiK ' tiottti today would have
. i rarhed thr rrcnrd mark of $".WH,fi2f
aMitniiiR that thr antr prrcrntaur of
hanking husinrt would hayr hrrn
dune (in Tttrsday as on othrr day of
thr wrrk.
j A it was, Hearings amounted to onlv
; $n Ill5 5I7 rVi This comparrs with $.1.
,1R1(i45 for the i orrcstiomlitig week in
i l''15, an increase of Ml prrcrnt llnw
lever, the wrrk of I'1 5 hail six hanking
' davi and wat, in addition, thr record
period of thr entire vcar of I'll?
Waterworks Plans
ELECTION BOARD
STARTS CANVASS
OF COUNTY VOTE
Sheriff's Race Still in Doubt:
lohnson Ahend,
BULLETIN
Huftatki mined four votM in thr
etnvsM by thr county flrotton board
thtti afternoon Thr board had rn
itflfd vote in thr First ward, and
mvm terinrtu in thr Second.
Johnson's Irad of 41 Totrs was le
idiicrd to 37.
Thr ahtrntrr votes on which hingr
tfir rlntioii of a sheriff in this county
will not he counted until latr this aftrr
noon, according to Hen I". Davis, chair
man of thr count v rlection hoard
Johnson Leading.
F:ifty such votes havr hern rnrivrd
hv thr ho.iril The plutality givrn (',.
F. Johnson, drtno. rat. hy the tinoflicial j j,., t j, ( hett will come the advettisc
tLtAHiwbb i-uh wtt! ;;,,;;,; ,,;. .'mmn tlut we.t Virginia
finals in a niimher of counties hail I Wisconsin , .
neglected tu place the name of S. A. , Wyoming 3
Scott on the ticket as candidate for '
i . i- ..ii .i.
elector, xmt was iiamen tiv inr re i
pulilican stale cotnmitter when J W , Iotals
Necessary to elect, ZOO.
rr i
llawton, who hail hrrn ttniiiinatrd hv
the state rrpuhlican (otivrtition resigned I
from the tnktV '
Suffragists Lose
in West Virginia
i II KI.KS-H)N, W Va Nov. ') -
Kettnns from 727 out of 1,71.1 precmi'.:
in W est Virginia on suftragr: I'or, I
-"i.-Wl; against 'Ml 712 j
255
8
13
243
33
Under Examination . Missouri Pacific
Flans Approved
Two or thrre davs will he retpnreil
for thr hoard of i ommissioners am!
ineitihert of thr waterworks advisory
cotnmitter to gonrr plans and specifi
cations lot the new waterworks system.
Thr task lirgan this morning in the
council (hatnhcr at the city hall.
Meeting with the two hotlies weir
II V I'rrssry. consulting rnginrrr ;
(itiv MrClurr. city rnginrrr, ami II Nf.
N'ahstrdt, rrsidrnl rtigtnerr, ami . T.
Hoys, municipal counselor.
l'.'llouing (he rxaminatioit of thr
vrilimiinoiis rrcortl the ciMiiniissiotirt s
ami committer will either adopt or rr-
ll-.l I I'.KSt IN lll. Mo.. Nov. 'I -The
proposed rr.irganiyalion "i the Mis
soitri I'acific ami the St Louis, trot
Mountain X Southern railroads was ap
piovetl lute today hv the stale piihl'.'
service i onimission
returns uvrr ohn llithatka. rrpuhlican
ll 41 votrs The alisetiler voles whiih
srr those of the residents of this coun
rv who voted in oilier parts of the state
Tuesday, tan swing ihr flection to'
either candidate.
Johnson is confident f victory,
claiming ''5 prrcrnt of those votrs. !lu
bntka will not makr any claims, dr
rla'ritiR hr is willing to wait for thr
final count to dn idr
Canvass Startrd.
Thr hoard startrd thr canvass at ):.)
o'clock this morning anil it will not he
enmpletrd until latr tonight I'mil thru
'he sheriff race will hr ill dottlit
iitent for hids.
TIMES WANT ADS PAY
DIVIDENDS BECAUSE
THEY ARE READ
Every evening there are thou
sands upon thousands of proplr
who turn to the clasi(ird pages
to nee what the opportunities ate. .
IS Wolds, 3 Days, ISc
15 Words, o Days, lie
PBX-J
Freezing Weather !
Expected Tonight i Gainesville
TEXAS CHAPTER
OF U. D. C. WILL
BE REINSTATED
Order Favored in
Convention Vote,
LOCAL FORECAST Fair wtathtr to.1
night and Friday the tcmperatur near '
tretilno tonlghti probably somawhat ! i,.i c t - n- n
vnarmrr Friday, DALLAS, lexis, Nov. 9 Kecoltl-
ST ATE FORECAST Tonloht fair, inrtldatioiis that thr J. J. I'inlry
"'."J? nart.h",t..P1,0rl ''"Infl "" -r f (;:lie.v.l1r I I;. .iai.,sl whirl.
paraturt. Friday fair and riling tampar.
atura In northwtit portion.
; AltK'ANSAS 1'nlr. colilnr. front; freeit.
IliK 111 Hut til pur t loll
K IANSAH - Kit 1 1 . wmiiiiit tonlKtii: I'n
ilnv pmlmlily Mln Hint t ohlrr; tmii li col I .
el ty HtituiilHy.
HOURLY
TEMPERATURE.
tfl p. in 13
II p. in 1!
III P. in 4 1
' ntn WHO pcnjI
TVC WtT M)t. J
iCLDOn VfrVNT I
i: :.:::::::: 5
II a. m.. Ml
"Zimmie" "m"
In i. I 1 V tu. kU
charges of iiisuh.irdination luul hrrn'
filed, hr reinstated in the' I'nitrd ,
Daughters of thr Confederal y, were
adopted 1.2.17 to K'iH at today's session
of the grnrral convention here
Included in Report. .
The recommendations were included ,
in the report ol the executive hoard
and also exonerated Mrs. Frank (i.
( Idrnhriinrr. president -grnrral, of al
leged partiality in connrclion with de
riding the Maryland division presi
dency Mrs Ailelhert Warren Mraisl
was dn hired to he thr legally rlectrd
president of that division,
k Election Postponed.
Vtguuients on these two iptestionsi
continued for some tiuir, trinpoi at ilv i
postponing thr rlection of grnrral of
ficers, scheduled for this morning.
The report of the credentials com
ntiltee today showed 2,1(7 votPs in the
cumciiliutk
II' l'rrsi.lrnl Wilson ran grt California pr Minnesota, plus tlir voir of
one of thr small douhtful stairs. North Dakota. New Mexico or Nrw
I lauipshire. hr will win.
To put the reptthlnan candidate mn, Hughes must have not only
t altfotiiia or Minnesota, hut also all I lit re of the thrrr small iloiihttul
states
Hughes can win without Minnesota or without California, hut in
order to win under stiili a condition hr will have to carry Nmrth Dakota.
New Mexico and Nrw Hampshire
If Hiighrs wins hoth California and Minnrsota his rlrdton is a
sutrd. In othrr words, nrithrr thr loss of Minnesota or California hy othrr
candidate will drcidr the fight definitely.
Nji stair now missing i derisive
t 'alifnrnia has II eleitorial votes
Minnesota has 12 electoral votes
North Dakota has 5 electoral votes
New- Mexico has .1 elertoral votes
New I lauipshire has 4 electoral votes
W ilson has 255 votes in thr chctotal lahle
lluyhrs has 24.1 votrs in thr elei total tahlr
Ihr winner mutt havr 2oo votrs,
Ihe douhtful statrs total .I.t voles
Now for a review of the situation in the missing slates as it stand
at 1 o'i hiik this afternoon :
MINNESOTA.
With 2KH precincts remaining to hr hratd fifin in Minnrsota. Ilughrs
is leading Wilson hy 811 votes. Hughes total vote in Minnesota is
172,.tnK
Ml of the missing Minnrsota disltictt are in the country Wilson
had in Minnesota in thr citirs of Minneapolis, St Paul and Duliith As
soon a the couutrv precincts hegau to lepott this lead was cut down
consistently until Ilughrs led Wilson. The repuhlu an arr i l.uming
Minnesota heyond (iiestioii. The democrats have a fighting cltancr to
carrv the state, hut thr odds in Minnrsota are now all against W illson
CALIFORNIA.
In California l'lrsident Wilson has a lead of .l.SO'l votes with 412
pi remits to report. Thr votrs ol more than ll Nt Los Angeles prnuuts
have not hrrn counted. In approximately 2111 Los Angeles ptr tin ts
rrportnl Wednesday, Hughes led Wilson hy 2,(t). It therefore srrins
rrasonahlr to assume that in the 1K) Los Angeles precincts missing,
Ilughrs will rut Wilson's lead down. Ihr remaining precinct in Cali
fornia, which arr country ptr.inits, will turn thr state It is all nn
portant to know the location of thrsr missing counties Most of
thrtn arr in southern California
NORTH DAKOTA.
I'lfsidrnt Wilton has a Irad ol L4''4 votrs with 152 widely s. at
tried voting precincts missing in Notth Dakota The missing pre
i incts are divided evenly in Hughes ami W ilson lettitoty Culess
there is an unexpected reversal in form in North Dakota. I'icsi.leiit
Wilson can rotint on thrsr five electoral volet.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Hoth Wilson and Hughes followers will claim tlir Nrw llainpslnir
electoral vote until aftrr an official trcoiint. 'Ihrirforr thnr is a por
sihiltty that the situation may nairow down to the voir in Nrw Hamp
shire ami that we will not know who has hrrn rlnted for a wrek h'r
turns verified at 1 o'clock this afternoon in New llauipshite gave the
stale to Wilson hv 117 votes, llus is the situation with only half of the
oilnial letntiis in the stair verified Ihe itiautm is so nairow that a
mount and petsistclit Hamming hv hoth tamps is lettam Wilson ha
a shade
NEW MEXICO.
Hughes has thr slender matgiil of 25K votes tu New Mexico with
.12 eleitioii districts misting Wilson's managrts ate still hopeful of
the testilt in Nrw Mexico. The voir on whuh Ilughrs has made his
(Cfatlnuisl M fM Iwa.)
ST. PAUL, Minn., Nov. 9. When presidential
returns from Minnesota were nine-tenths complete at
noon today Charles E. Hughes still maintained a slight
lead over President Wilson. Returns from 2,736 pre
cincts of 3,024 in the state gave Wilson 171,497 and
Hughes 172,308.
FARGO, N. D., Nov. 9. Returns from 1,707 pre
cincts out of 1,859 in North Dakota gave Wilson 53,
028, Hughes 51,534.
MINNEAPOLIS, Nov. 9. Fred B. Lynch, demo
cratic national committeeman from Minnesota, tele
graphed President Wilson this afternoon that Minne
sota would give him a plurality of 1,000.
NEW YOUR", Nov. f. Indications nt noon today wcr
that the rt'sult of the election miht not be definitely knowft
for two or three days. Returns in the doubtful statrs con
tinued to come in slowly and recounts are certain to be de
manded in practically all of them.
If the result of the incomplete returns of Tuesday's ballot
ing are accepted as final in all but five states at noon today, the '
electoral vote would jrive President Wilson 'Z7 and Mr. Hughes
243.
! Doubtful States.
I The five doubtful states with their electoral votes are:
! California 1.'5. Minnesota 12, New Mexico '., North Dakota 5,
j New Hampshire 1.
. The sudden switch of New Hampshire front a small
'Hughes plurality to 117 votes for President Wilson was tha
dramatic change in the situation this afternoon. It came in an
announcement front the secretary of state that a partial of
ficial count of all the districts disclosed errors in tabulation by
town and ward clerks. The official count is proKTessinK.
Where Candidates Lead.
In Minnesota and South Dakota the incomplete return
;show Mr. Hughes to have the lead, while in California and
'North Dakota Mr. Wilson is leading,
j Possibilities in Race.
; President Wilson can win with either California or Mln
inesota. but in addition must gvt North Dakota. New Mexico
or New Hampshire. Mr. Hughes to win must have both CalU
fornia and Minnesota or either one and in addition North Da
kota. New Mexico and New Hampshire.
' In California President Wilson had n lead of nearly 5,000
with one-tenth of the utate's precincb missinR. Of the 570
missinK. Mil are in the republican stronjuhold and the other
litre in northern districts where the president' vote has been
heavy. Hlh parly nianitKcrs claim the state.
In Minnesota the most dramatic race of all wan belntr run
hour by hour. During yesterday President Wilson's lead of
10,000 hiowly melted down after the Hujrhes returns cam in
from ninety rural districts until it was wiped out. Then the
Wilson votes bewail coming in again, only to be offset by a
Hughes burst, and so the contest sawed all night.
Hughes Slightly Ahead.
This morning with about 500 precincts unreported Hughel '
was ahead with less than 1,000.
An ilevciitl) hour ili vi'liipiiii'tit in the rlection ftituation eam
thin morning from Cnncnrd, N. II , where Srcrrlary of Stitt Bean
Mated that with the New lliuupshiic returns complete, but only
