X
V
TDTT THJW
nor TTXTrnw tr
1EALD
II ML
Ji au JL
volchs nr.
eOOIEYILLE, TENNESSEE, THURsbAT. NOVEMBER 9, 1916.
NUMBER 45
C
FIELD DAY AT ENSOR
It was a delightful day to all who
attended the field day at Ensor
choolbouse in the 16th District on
Friday. Not. 3. 1916. The ' weather
was ideal one of those balmy days
cfa as none other than the month
or ten schools were in attendance.
They came in at intervals and made
tneir arriral known by enthusiastic
yells which attracted attention from
all that were on the grounds
The forenoon was. taken for inte--Jleetual
contests and a display of do
mestic science. Prises were awarded
to ths following: Spelling,, grades 1,
Z, Harrey Phillips of Ensor School
Grade 6. Bird Herron of Thomas
school. Spelling. Grades 6, 7. 8, Miss
Vman Patton of Baxter school. Ar
ithmetic, Grades 6, 7, 8, Miss Jennie
Wilkerson of Ensor school.
Then ' short addresses were made
by Prof. J. M. Hatfield and the wri
ter. Prof. Patton made announce
ments and we passed into the noon
hour; took lunch until all-were satis
fied. 'S ,
At one o'clock we went ' into the
Athletic field and our boys and girls
snowed themselves heroes and hero
ines in the field. Prizes were award
ed as follows: 50 yard dash ' for
glrls Jewel Terry, Oak Grove school.
68 yard dash for boys, Herman Wil
kerson, Ensor school. Boys 75 yd. dash
Charley Mitchell, of Silver Pt. school.
Relay Race, Ova Thomas of Thomas I
School beat Enson School, and Pen-
nock Maxwell of Baxter school beat
Thomas School. 1
Shoe Race; Jesse Harris of Baxter
school. Sack Race; Pennock Max
well of Baxter school (ran 50 yds. in
'a sack in 13 sec.) Potato Race; En
sor and Oak Grove schools tied.
High Jump; Willard Harris, Baxter
school. I think no one could criticise
a field day spent so. profitably for our
young people. '
; J.' A HARRIS.
eOOK 'SHOWER .
A book shower and social for the
T. P. I. library will be given at the
Presbyterian Church Thursday night,
Nov. 16th. from 8 te'lO.
The, admission will be any book
suitable for such a library, or anv
f November can give. Some eight Hunount of money from 10 cents up
, KEEPING AHEAD
It was an American business firm
who some forty-three years ago
showed, the world how to perfect -the
saediciaal properties of cod liver oil
aad make, it pleasant to take which
. immediately popularized cod liver oil
throughout the whole world.
Not content with this great suc
cess, however, Scott & Browne have
continued to evolve methods and ma
chinery to keep Scott's emulsion fin
er. purer and richer than the imita
tlons which patterned after their
plans, and ' today every precaution
that human Ingenuity 'can devise is
employed to keep Scott's Emulsipn
the.., finest and purest medicinal food
in the world.
The refining of raw cod liver oil a 3
. practiced with the crude equipments
available along the Norwegian coast
has never squared with the ideals of
Scott & Browne and they have just
completed a spacious refining plant
adjoining their laboratories, in Bloom-
' field,. N. J. which is refrigerated to
the cfimate of Norway and equipped
with unusual sanitary devices which
will forever insure a supreme quality
of cod liver oil in every bottle 'of
Scott's Emulsion and place it above
and beyond all commercial substitu
tes which may contain the usual sua1
picious or adulterated oils. '
A MASS MEETING OF FARMERS
Hon. H: K. Bryson, Commissioner
of Agriculture has requested me' to
li a mass meeting of the farmers of
Putnam county for the., purpose , of
selecting delegates to the Middle Ten
nessee, Farmers' Institute, which
meets In Nashville, Tenn., Dec. 6, 7
and 8, 1916. I hereby call said meet
ing to be held in the hancery. court
room in the courthouse Saturday,
Nov. 11th, 1916, ajUone o'clock P. M.,
for the purpose of selecting said dele
gates. I desire that every district in
the county be' represented at this
meeting.
B. C. HUDDLESTON,. Pres.
that you may feel willing to give for
tnis good cause.
A short programwill be given be
ginning about 8:15 and a social hour
will be enjoyed before and after the
program.
. If you enjoT guessing contests look,
up wen Known books and authors
and bring a pencil. '
Every one come and- have a good
time while doing something for our
boys and girls.
Missionary society
The Woman's Missionary Society
of the Methodist church met in regu
lar business session at the church
Monday afternoon at 2:30 o'clock.
Quite a good membership was pres
ent and after devotional services
conducted by the president, a very
enthusiastic business meeting ensued.
Among other items of business, we
decided to have a ChrfBtmas bazaar
two weeks before Christmas, place
and arrangements to be announced
later. Program for the week of
prayer was given out and due con
sideration and study will be given to"
these programs in order that the
week of prayer and self-denial mar
be a success educationally, spiritually
and otherwise. Latin America is the
subject of the meetings. You are
cordially invited to attend the ser
vices beginning Monday, Nov. 13, at
the church. Books for the Mission
Study" Class were ordered; the new
books ' being "Old Spain and New
America." Our next meeting will be
with Mrs. S. S. Stanton, Dec. 4th. it
which the ' officers for the ensuing
year will be elected.
. J?
BOYS CORN CLUB AWARDS
In the corn club exhibits of the
Agricultural Day the following boys
made the best ten ear exhibit in their
respective clubs.
Algood Community Corn Club, Gas
ket Gragg. Salem Community Club,
1ECSII11
Party of Forefathers Makes a
Clean Sweep of Nation, State,'
County and City
WILSON, RYE, McKELUAR,
ENLOE, MATTHEWS and
KITTRELL WIN
President Carries Ohio, the Solid South
and Almost Every Western State
GO NO FARTHER
The Democratic party won a great victory in
vTiitierygBuck. pTeasrntTaney ciSb.' the election last Tuesday. Nala'qnaliyfit was the
Marun ppP1in!:daon ; Sblpley Club most remarkable contest ever Swaged arid the
pressive Farmer will be given ' these result is so close that it may take the official can-
Doys. ine corn ciuDs maae an extiiD- . i j , i ' ,r r, . ,
it of high duality and n showed to vas to determine who won.- On the face of the
ermen o the" cJunt?" by the 0,d' returns President Wilson is re-elected by a few
"the girl and the game" electoral votes. The close states are California.
of "The iron ciaw" win be shown at New Mexico, North Dakota Minnesota and New
ing Monday night, Nov 20, that great rlamDShire.
Gin And The Game", win be started 1 he entire state ticket is elected by increased
anil will run fifton wfka Hprfllri I v i
readers will be delighted to have the majorities OVel tWO VearS afifO.
opportunity to see tnis story in nc- tx '
tures, as it has been read ! these rutnam county gave Democratic majorities of
onliimna Hurinc the Inst few mnnthq I . J
It is a great story and the pictures from 350 tO 700. '
will be fall of actiou.and excitement. . . ,
card of thanks . ' ouowing are the approximate hgures tor Fut-
I wiHh to thank my friends forrtheir nam PAiinf anr fVia Tnnoccrt
m and sympathy- during the "uu itnuraocc.
, Put. Co.
President
Wilson. ..-,. ..
Hughes......... .... .-z...:i
U. S. Senator
McKellar. ...A. .....2002
kindne?
illness and death of my sister. Not
only do' I appreciate your deeds of
love and words of sympathy, but I
appreciate those beautiful flowers
which you contributed at her funeral.
May God's blessings rest -uprvn vou
all. AVA FARMER.
..,207
...1887
Tennessee
138,572
96,158
PICTURES' AT T. P. I.
The following motion pictures will trnnn -Man
be 'shown at T. P. I. Friday nifrtit, -- -
Nov. 10, to which the public is invited,
' "Harvesting jn Australia. ' , -"Immigration."
-"The
Evolution of.a Stenographer"
Wm. VADEN DIES .
Wm. Vaden died at his home in this
city Sunday, Nov. 5, 1916, aged about
75 years. He had been in poor, health
for some time. Burial was made near
Chestnut Mound 'in the family ceme
tery. ; ; - ..v
Governor
Rye. .j... ....1052
Overall.....:................. ,...;i397
j- R. R. Commissioner
Eploe.... .......... ..j. 1980
Abernathy .... ... 1 ........ ..............ms
Congressman ' . .
124,666
94,402
125,006
97,312
116,281
80,008
program
Teacher' Meetino and Educational
Raliy At Oak Grove 8ehool in 7th Dfa-
t- trict, Saturday, November 18tM
10 a. m. Devotional Exercises. Rev.
J. A. Harris. '
10:15 Welcome Address. Beecher
Gentry.
10:30 The Dutv of the Community
to me scnooi, n. (J. uoieman
11:00 The Duty of the Teacher to
the Community, T. K. Sisk.
11 : SO community Organisations
and Social Centers, Prof. Barnett.
lZiOO-Noon.
1:00 The Farmer and His Home.
T W Kittrell. .
1:20 The Ideal School, Austin W.
Smith. . '
1:40 What We as Teachers-Lack
in Efficiency, Chester Patton.
2:00 Care of School Property and
Grounds, as a Part of the Education
of the Child, H. D. McCulley. w
2:20 The School Library and How
Best to Use it, Elmore Gentry.
2 r40 Girls' Canning Club Work.
Miss Margarette McKenzie.
This will probably be the last meet
ing held in. the country this year.
Let every teacher attend. All peo-ple-
interested in school work should
be prsent,. for the people placed on
this program are able to instruct yom.
Respectfully,
J.M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt.
EASTERN STAR BANQUET
Thursday, Nov. 2, at 9 o'clock the I
ladies of the Order of the Eastern
Star gave their annual banquet in the
Masonic Hall. -The hall was beauti
fully decorated with ferns and pot
flowers. There was quite a jolly
crowd to partake of the bountiful
menu, which bad been prepared with
so much skill and care. T$is, how
ever, was not as largely attended as
was expected, owing to some unavoid
able occurrences, but everything was
satisfactory so , everybody just begin
now to look y forward to the first
Thursday night in next November, as
this was started as an annal banquet
of the Eastern Star. It is to try to
get more interest in the order and to
try to bring more of the Masons and
their wives and daughters together
in a social way, as the order of the
Eastern Star was gotten up for the
benefit of Master Masons, their wvves,
widows, mothers," sisters and daugh
ters. -Take Masonic history and read it
in connection with the Bible and see
how closely they are connected. One
helps to understand the other for
Masonry is founded in theBible and
stands for the highest type of broth-,
erly love and Christianity, for higher
thoughts and nobler achievements.
and if ohe lives up to his obligation j
Mt. View Lodge No. 179. Y O. n tv
met a the usual hour, 7 p. m., Nov.
4th.. 1916, H. V. CarrJi. G. protein,
presiding, with a good attendance.
The usuual routine bteinesa wan rtu.
Posed Of. Bro. C. Bradford w .
ported to be about as last week. Bro.
J. H. York was able to work two -days
during the past week and hopes
to be ble to put in full time from -
now on. Bro. W. L. Stewart w'as re
ported sick not seriously. Bro. C. M
Buck departed this life ' at 9 p. m." '
Oct. 29, 1916; was buried with the
honors of the order: In the cemeterv
at Algood. It was ordered by the .
Lodge that a warrant on the Treasur
er be issued for the burial benefits. K
committee on Resolutions on the '
death of Bro. Buck was appointed bv
the N. G.
The 2nd degree was conferred unon
one applicant. Bros. J. H. and E H
Goolsby members in good standing of
this Lodge, and residents of Hamblin,.
Montana write that they live about
40 miles from an I. 0. O. F. Lodge. .
The 3rd degree will be conferred
at our next meeting. All that can
should -be in attendance.
BOYS PIG CLUB WINNERS ' '
The remarkable showing of the
pigs raised by members of the pig
club that were shown on the Agricul
tural Day on .Oct. "26 was remarked
by all who saw them. - Below is the
final report of the work. In award
ing the prizes two things are con
sidered, first the number of pounds
gained; and second, the" cost of fe.i,
perpound of gain. Close records
were kept .on the amount and kinds'
of feed and the pigs were all weighed "
on the same scale at -the same time;
on the day of exhibit, Below are the:
figures : '
Name Gain lbs. Cost lb. gain
John Wright .. . 183.0
Elton Richardson 216.0
Willis Hutidleston """" 169:0
Dewey Holman v ' 155.0
Gaskell Whiteaker 148.5
Chas. McCulley v " 147.6
Arthur Stewart 146.5
Rupert Whittaker 138.5
On looking -over the' records the
prizes were awarded as follows:
John Wright, Cookeville, R. 5, first.
Elton Richardson, 'Cookeville 9,
second. HasRell Whiteaker, Cooke
ville R. 5, third. Rupert Whiteaker.
Cookeville, R. 5, fourth. 1
3.50c
4.75c
5.80c
- 5.80c
410c
5 50c
6.10c
4.30c
The Evidence i at Your Door
Cookeville proof is what you. want,
nnd the statement of this highly res-
pected resident will banish all douhbJ
W. B. Rector, farmer ana real es
tate dealer. Washington St., Cooke
ville, says: "I had kidney complaint
after a spell of typhoid fever. My
back ached constantly and there
wns jiuich soreness across, my kid
neys. I could nardly stoop mornings
' to put on my shoes and the least
' work tired me, Dizsy headaches and
other kidney ailments bothered me.
too. Doan's Kidney Pills, procured
. from Wyiy's Drug Store, relieved all
these ailments." v . , .
- Price 50c, at all dealers. Don t
nimplv ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr, Rector had. Foster Milburn Co.,
Props., Buffalo, N. Y,
Hull....
Benson.
Matthews...
Hi
fflisoIulelyPuro
; Mad.e from
Groam of Tcrfcr
Derived frcra Crspss
HONOLULU, H. T.
Some time about last August I was
delichted at receiving a copy of the
Herald, and thereafter I've received Coleman .
it as reguiariy-' as i am in ine om
home town. To say that I'ye derived
much pleasure from it would be to Kittrell
pui li nirui.v, lor lliueru, ll in m.Ci it i
long letter from home; and although Jones
this country is deuehtrui in many
respects, with its fruits,- powers and
luxuriant tropical foliage, its coral
reefs, snow capped peaks, and withal
eternal spring, a perusal of the Her
ald helps me to remember hat after
... .... .......
State Senator
Representative
...2088
...1336
...1998
...1417
...1882.
...1532
HOLLADAY SCHOOL NOTES
The Holladav School is DroVressinr
nicety with Mr. H. D. McCulley as
a ,,- A,,- o. mn nnrt iwn . principal, and Misses Notie Proffltt
son he is a man that will be a bene-1 and Kate Davis fessistants. There
fit to his community. So let every I 98 pupils enrolled The Holladay
Mason take another view of himself 1 Literary Society met Friday vafter
and start anew and see if Ve cannot noon 1 discussed the questioii 'Wo- .
do better in the future and show to man Suffrage , the negative side win
those around us that Masonry stands nInf- . ,4 .
for the riKhf kind of.living and true Mrs 1 K. and B. H. Carr visited our
to its tenets which are, faith, relief nooi r nuay auernoon ana we were
and truth. A MEMBER.. lad to have ihm w'th lis .
j . miBt; iuaiia oiiiiiu, urnoic vjt-ii-
HIGH PRICES ' y trw, Amanda Bussell, Ila HixJ Ora
OcnaHlonallv we find a farmer who Hawkins and Harriet Bullingtcm vis-
thinks 50 cents a vear is high 'for. the ited our school Friday afternoon.
Herald. As we 1 have explained be- The Holladay School wishes to ex
fore, the cost of-paper and other tend their thanks to Dr. Wyley for
orintina- material has increased" to the nice flag he gave us. .
such an extent that we were compel-; VALUE CARRT 8th Grade. :
led to raise the price. But paper is ; n'rrpFiii sale -
not the only thing that is high, farm ' !, H ,kA 0L n n-
products being in that class. With r vi ",c "
m 0K t.i. - on farm i held today was successful in
sweet potatoes 1.00, eggs 30c, lard 20 every particular. The jalwas con
cents, and live stock higher than a .f by the National Realty Co
cat, hack our farmer friends have no I ??Jer direction of L. M. Felton, with
right to complain pf high prices, and , I7 .'Z'T'Z
can all afford to aKe tneir couniy
paper at almost any price. ,
FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
The pastor will preach at 11 o'clock
Sunday morning, lov.' 12, on "Not To
Please Himself."
The week beeinhins: Sunday, Nov.
12, will be observed as v isitation . . . ; -
Week". The pastor is organizing I TWOCHRISTMAS PRESENTS FOR
The land was bought by three men.
J. C. Barnes, R. L. Maddux and M.'F.
Tjee, each Retting a tract. The whole
farm of 32s acres brought $11,120, an
average bt $34.46 per acre.
Auction land.-sales are .' becoming
popular in this section, and are suc-j
cessful when .properly managed, :,.
Governor Rye Thanks Voters of the State
yours,
Nashville, Tenn., Nov. 8, ,1916.
To the people of Tennessee who supported me in vesterdav'a
au, wiere w no mace . contest 1 desire to express my profound thanks and gratitude.'
with best wishes to the Herald and I am deeply conscious of the fact that the splendid majority giv-
to t ooKeviue, i am mo.i cora any tn mo is nnt nurannal rn mvself hut io tho avnuccmn
TirTT.iir nAvia ------- v-t-, r- wuu
. , . , i ii e 1 1 i jm
uence in anu stpyruvai oi uie principles ior wnicn ine party stands.
MRS. mary gentry' To the press of the state, and to those in charee of hpaHminrt.
Till rtoath lllDol 1ms viultoH nur I . x XrU..:il J.- w i-1 . iXt ..'I e 1 I t i
...v. - v. ... n v . . . . . t . i. . u v I rM Ml. nMKIlV 1H IFHIIlfllM V I llf I 1 1 I I i I X I I MTf "M , M n f nQ l'a ahAHri n.
j . .j i. ..!- I o ... - - muuicugu
!tiin John l. Gentry's wife. She had f industriously for the succesrof the party, and to all local organi-
peen on the bed or araiction for some actions, I desire to express rriy thanks and grateful appreciation
time Tno narfia van hn oa havo rn r I a wwt,
heartfelt sympathy. '
I Mrs. Gentry was a true and belov
ed Christian, who was patient in her
illness. We know i is sad indeed,
to give our loved ones up, but they
have paid the debt we all will pay
sooner or later.
Tom C. Rye.
ROUTE NINE -As
I like to read the Herald very
much, I will ask the Editor to print
May the husband these few lines. I was born and
hold out faithful so he can meet his raised in Jackson county; movefd to
dear loving wire 'who. is waiting at Putnam county'nve years ago, finding
the gate for him. Also may the ricji it a glorious and prosperous place. In
esf blessings be with those three lit Tlnance, and spiritually in church and
tie children wlwv are left without a educational affairs. Our new con
mother to care for them, for what is solidated school tit Oak Grove is pro
home without a mother: " ' . gressing fine under the management
This loving wife and mother is of Profs. B. C. . Gentry and Maxwell,
gone forever: the . righteous i shall The citizens of Oak Grove Communi
meet her to part no never. Her body ty do appreciate our new nchool
lies beneath. the ground, but her soul building in this district, and We thank
is homeward bound She is g6ne .but the county board very much Tor this
not forgotten, never will her memory building. "'-,-fade;
the sweetest thoughts will lin Farmers are very busy gathering
ger around the grave when?, s'le was corn and sowing wheat, rye and
laid. A precious one from us is gone, oats. !
COOKEVILLE ROUTE 7
Mr, Joe Masters and wife; Clint
Masters and wife, and little Coe Mrs.
G. GBartlett, John Rector, Mrs. Pos-
ton Smith, an d Perlina Smith' all
took dinner with Perry Bartlett and
wife Friday.
Health is very good in this part "at
present. . ;.
Willis Martin s mule was seen hit
ched at N. A. Stewart's, Sundav af
ternoon, -i.
Mr. and Mrs. Andy Green visited
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Perry BarU
lett Sunday.
Brice Green and" Josh. Bartlett
went haw hunting Sunday.
The writer and , her sister. Mrs.
Floyd Laycox went to the sDelline
imaay night.
several visiting groups. These groups
will be out all the afternoon Sundav
visiting the families of the church and
Sundav school,- This visitation is
wholely for spiritual and , social up
lift... ,
It is-Jiooed that the families or the
congregation will remain at home as
far as practicable until the visitors
shall, have seen them.
ENLARGED QUARTERS
Jenkins & Darwin Bros, have com
pleted the enlarging of their store
and now have, a room on tne grouna
floor 56 x 112 feet. This gives them
mom to nroDerlv display t heir i large
stock of clothing, shoes, dry good-,
etc. -The building, will be heated by
furnace ,
ALGOOD. CIRCUIT NOTES '.
Preaching at Salem Sunday morm
ing, Nov. 12, and at Whitson's Chap
el Sunday afternoon. The pastor will
preach at night at the Algood Presby
terian Churcb in the place of Rev.
Fount Smith. Quarterly conference j
at Algood, Sat. Dec 9. . F. B. COX. j
THE PRICE OF ONE
The best family paper and the best'
fashion; magazine The Youths Com
panion and McCall's Magrizine,. both ',
for $2.10. The Youth's Companion
($2.00 by itself) has for years been,
one of the best most entertaining,
most useful of Christmas presents,
crowded with stories, articles, humor,
science, and the progress of the world '
week by week. McCall's Magazine
I (50 cents by itselD is the most wide-: .
ly circulated fashion magazine , in
America.. r , - .
Our two at one price offer includes;
1. The Youth's Companion 62 issues
of 1917. . '
2. ' All the remalniag issues of 1916.
3. The Companion Hdme Calendar for
1917. ' ' , '
4. McCall's Magazine 12 fashion
' numbers of 1917.
B. One 15 cent McCall Dress Pattern
' - your choice from your first num
ber of the magazine if you send a
2 cent stanp with your selection.
THE YOUTH'S COMPANION, ,
St. Paul St., Boston, Mass.
New subscriptions received at Herald
FEVEn PEOPLE GROWING OLDER
The Public Health Service reports that more people live to
the age of forty years to-day, but from' forty to sixty years
mortality is increasing from degenerative diseases. , '
Thousands of well-informed men and women to-day are
learning the true value of 'It
oice we love Is still, a place is va Uncle James Philpot is very sick at ( Estte Dickerson and Henry Moore
cant m uieir nome wnicn never can uiis writing, win ciose witn good nave moved to the Smith Farm.
be filled. . May the Lord bless and wishes to the
save every on Is my prayer.
readers;
Editor and Herald
Miss Nellie .Barns called on Mr
sister, Mrs. Estle Dickerson Satur
OF NORWEGIAN COD LIVER OIL
as a powerful blood-enricher and strength-builder
to ward off the headaches and backaches mat mean
weakness. . SCOTT'S helps fortify the body against
grippe, pneumonia and weakening colds, through
its force of - medicinal nourishment.
ItofftM Alcoholic Extracts That Da Not Contain Cod Liver OIL
" S"tt A Bvwna. BlmnfiaU. W. X mi
y
NEOMIA LEE.
L. K.
RICHARDSON.
day aright.
Martha Mabery.
A
I
N
