- X
Hendersonviile
Yl.
VTtnV ;-
51
THE HUSTLER
WQl InWL
Tliel-s- for Summer
Tourists
Henderson County's
Home. Paper
VOL. XXIU. NO. 41
HENDERSONVILLE, -N, C , r H URSD A Y, NO VEM BER 9, 1916
s-
PRICE FIVE CENTS
- - H -.13 M i
V7 V"7
"""
IBJ H fr 'ti : Htt 8 1 U LIB H I B Ml B H US H U II f M tM 3 U ' .
ir- - -i ii r-m fa . . n t- n is
I M M 9 II n H K g
4 .
OUR NEXT CONGRESSMAN
: "XS itsSpwS&H . -... -i.;,'V: "WV"'
f : -x '- . rO v ; .o .1 ' N V-; r.Vt'i -;Ji -. A..- - v. : Vv j-V ..v -A-.f-:v-.V: V" -xx--
V -S v n W ' v
mrii irft' -'iii'm iSim iai 'v iwm i'VP'r ' ' V ' jpii-iTi.tl " 1 V i" ijiifaifi in B ii' '! mi f fflii 'rii ' ' ' - 11 ' r ' w ntmcr tmrm ni
Zebulon
Allowing practically everything that
the republicans can hope to claim in
the Tenth district, Senator Zebulon
Weaver is elected over Congressman
Britt by a majority of 100 votes, thus
giving North Carolina a solid Demo
cratic delegation in the National house
of representatives.
Taefolloving is the standing of Wea
ver and Britt with their majorities in
the counties of the district:
Britt Weaver
Haywood 893
Buncombe 292
Rutherford . 452
Transylvania 20
Cherokee 300
Swain 350
Maeon.. 10
Henderson.. 676
Clay.. - 43
Polk 12a
Jackson 48
McDowell ' 7
1557 1657
In Henderson county Mr. Weaver
gained twenty-three votes over the re.
turns of two years ago. an in the
rock-ribbed democratic county of Hay
ood it is estimated that Mr. Weaver's
ultimate majority may be not less than
S00. The heavy majority of Haywood,
the change in Rutherford and Maeon,
and the very heavy vote cast in Bun
combe, are a few of the interesting fea
tures of an altogether interesting elec
tion. The unusual delay in reaching a defi
nite conclusion as td "the-results of the
race has added to the interest. It is a
curious fact that considerable sums
of monev wer waperpfl vesterdav on
the outcome, some of it being placed '
even as late as6 o'clock last night.
SOMETHING & ZJ5B
WEATEE'S HISTOBY.
In the fertile Reems Creek and Flat
Creek valleys and on the uplands be
tween the two streams, there have
lived for five generations; in peace and
contentment, the ' numerous Weaver
clan, it was here than John Weaver
Tivay back, when" this part of Western
North Carolina was natural huntin?
giound for the Indians, came with his
'ife and small baby. They emigrat-;
ed from Virginia, making the difficult
journey on horse back and . carrying
all their worldly goods on pack an
imals. .. - -
To these valleys too,- came pother
hardy pioneers, bearing names which
appear in the annals of North Carolina
nd of American history names con
tinually associated with the':, upbuild
? and development of Buncombe
county and North Carolina. Settling
a"so in this favored section were the
Kairda, the Garrisons, the Chamberse3,
the Branks, the Vances the Itobertses.
forming there1 a veritable ' Arcadj
Vv-Mch bas endured to this day. These
Hl
W eaver
v
pioneers were a God-fearing people,
and so their descendants have remain
ed. They have not known great
wealth, but there has been no want.
Every generation has sent its stalwart
and gifted sons into the world of en
deavor and accomplishment. Hence
came the Vance3, the immortal Zebu
lon and the gentle Robert. Reems
creek sent its quota of martyrs to the
southern cause. Its sons have enter
ed the professional an commercial
world and won success.
Zeb WeaTei4 People.
They were a contemplative and far
seeing people. It was these qualities
which led to the establishment of.
Weavetville college, now Weaver-col
lege. The calibre of the pioneers is
seen in this and in fact that they
formed the nuclus fo rthe establish
ment of the old Reems Creep camp
ground, where the people came to
worship from miles around.
Ijfc seems rather an unnecessary
thing to tell who Zeb Weaver is; be
cause he seems to refute the Biblical
proverb that -"a prophet is not with
out honor save in his own country."
Zebulon Weaver has stayed at home,
and from his own people, received
hpnbrs about as drastic a test as a
man may meet.
His grandfather was Rev. Montre
ville Weaver, youngest son of the pio
neers. Montreviller Weaver was re
sponsible for the town of Weaverville,
and largely for Weaverville college.
He owned practically all of what now
constitutes the town site and a great
deal besides. But .he was not land
hungry. He sold off home sites to
good people. '
Zebulon Weaver is the son of Cap
tain W, E . Weaver, a veteran of the
war of ".the "slates, and his-mother is
Hannah, daughter of Adolphus Baird
of the Beaverdam section. His grand
mother also was a Baird, a sister of
"Billy" Baird. . '
Thtese things are related of Zeb Wea
ver's genealogy because a man. may.
not be fully known unless there Is
knowledge of tbatT which produced
him.
The purpose of this article is not tdv
pass encomiums on Zeb Weaver. The
writer simply received instructions to
"tell who Zeb-: Weaver is.".' With this
end in view he sought one of "Mr.
Weaver's school mates, who gave
plenty of information,, but who hg.i
constantly to be reminded that it was
not a . eulogy that was wanted. He
would reply that he was-but stating
the. facts. y
Zebulon Weaver, in - !?-is" youth, he
said, easily excelled his companions
in sports swimming, running, shoot
ing, games, and wood and field craft;
nor" does it appear that his Iadershm
excited .' jealousy among his company
ions, owing to a sort of way he ha
with-them, his boyish . victories Mak
ing' him self-deprecatory rather than
boastful and self-sufficient. -
In school and college, it seems, it
was the same. ; He had no trouj
leading his classes, and his' class
mates accepted as a matter of
course or something like that. "Why
sa?d his school mate, "time and again
I have known him to read Latin
for .members of the class ahead "of
him, stuff that he had never seen. ,; c
, "But,' 'he continued, "he excelled' in
mathematics and logic and I . can see
evidence of this today in his powers
of analysis and reasoning. And hi3
quality of concentration is marvelous;
but not more so than his faculty 'for
understanding peopled"
For years Hhose who know" Zeb
Weaver liave looked upon him as con
gressional timber. The question, was
often heard, "Why not run Zeb Weav
er, for congress V Nobody seemed, to
know, except that somebody else
wanted to run more than Zeb did, but
there was a sort of feeling generally
to be observed thar sometime Zeb
would run for congress.
In Zeb Weaver, his friends declare
there is that rare combination of es
sentials of successful representation-f-the
ability to match wits with those
who sit in high places and the quali
ty of thinking s the people think, :.of
seeing things as they, see them, know
ing what they want and why they
want it. This is sb, they say, becausi
he is of the people that he would rep
resent. Zebulon Weaver graduated at
Weaverville colleg2 when he was very
young about seventeen and then he
went to the state university to study
law. After receiving his license, he
began to practice law in Asheville. Ho
was not long in establishing himself-
! as an attorney of ability. He son
i gathered a valuable clientage, but it
I was" not long before he attracted the
J attention of the democratic leaders.
s'ate Assembly !orfc.
It is Weaver's state legislative rec:
ord about which his friends are espec
ially enthusiastic and in this connec
tion they point out that although he
has served., four terms i in the : legisla
ture twicS ' as representative - -and
i wice y as : s ejjatr-V- neveirff eretTl
D-nnself' voluntarily as a candidate for
office, entering each race at the earn
est desire jf the men of his party.
He was first in-the house of repre
sentatives in. 1907.'
During every session in which he
has served, both in the house and in,
the senate, Mr. Weaver has been se
lected to serve' on the most important
committees. He has received the
highest commendations, in particular,
upon his y work in the judiciary
branch, in efforts to simplify legal
procedure.
DurinR the past session of the as
cembly he was "one of senate's sub
committee of three, appointed by the
joint committee on appropriations of
the house and senate, which had act
ive charge of all appropriations made
by the state.
His name appears as the author of
important - measures, especially of a
reformative and constructive nature,
and he aided in the preparation of
most of the laws of' state-wide appli
cation enacted while he was In the
assembly. v
Passenger Bate Fight.
In the fight over the railway pas
senger rates in 1907, Mr. Weaver was
a membjer. of the railway committee
of the house and supported the com
promise fixing the rate at two and a
half cents er mile. Arterward he
introduced v an amendment which de
prived the corporation commission of
its rate-fixing powers and put a bar
in the way, of federal court interfer
ence in the machinery of the state
government. -
He was among -those who fought
long for and finally passed an anti-
ll uoi law niui iccui.
The bill which resulted in placing
North' Carolina with the prohibition
states,- was partly the handiwork of
Mr. Weaver, and heaided in its en
actment. State-Wide Primary Law
The part he took inHhe state-wide
primary law contest was conspicuous.
As a member of the state senate, Mr.
Weaver' was Joint author with Sena
tor F. P. Hobgood, jr., of Guilford
county, of the present North' Carolina
primary election law; and he is gen
erally credited by those who watched
the fight at close range with being
primarily responsible for its final
pasage by theeneral assembly. He
also dideffective work in securing the
passage of the last corrupt practices
act;-'-' '-- :..":.-;.; -
He was an active supporter of what
was . knjwn as the Freight Rate act.
of 1913 designed lb reduce intra-state
rates and, prevent discrimination
against North Carolina cities in favor
of Virginia -cities, in the matter of inter-state
n-ates. The passage of this
bill, it is conservatively estimated, has
meant a saving to the people of the
state of $1,400,000 annually, with very
direct benefits to the people of west
ern North Carolina, through reduc
tion o rates on lumber, wood and
bark of approximately 20 per cent.
Mr. Weaver's friends hold he is
largely responsible for the excellent
insurance laws that are now adminis-.
tered in the state. In. the last legisla
turexthe house passed. sL bill similar to
the South Carolina law. Here Mr.
Weaver came in conflictvith Senator
Hobgod and easily came pff winner.
After he spoke - against the measure
"(Continued on Pago 8.)
. , .... .y
vS:::;:;:::v.;::::,:::::
:?::
- -r.Jr.1
MsMmmm
. - - ' , '.- : v , . ... - .-
. - .--
V '' J
T. W. BIOKETT
y
. -
- -
Indications from this senatorial dis-
trict. which include Henderson Polk.
v." fj- .
K' i y ' - j ,..V-VYAVAVI
r.-.T - r' . - m x.vr '. i-.'.-,-.--.' .'.".-...
W: -m&imS ? 252 votes.
if" :mmmmmmm ' admit the
m mmmmmmmmm. California, n
liliiillMiii
Rutherford and Cleveland counties ' democrats and William R. Willccx for
rt&fari tSJdSSithfrrepiibllcaii.. professed undiminish-
and Gastoxr Harreli of Rutherfordton,
T-.' TT1 T i-i o XX J Jll.
have defeated the republican aspirants',
nen W. FiePHPsf of syhpihvflTm t w
Walker of Landrum, S. C.,'r.1, by a
majority of more than 1,000. The sen
atorial vote in Henderson county has
not been tabulated.
TELEPHONE OPEBATOBS V
BENDER EFFICIENT SEBVICE
The Hustler is Indebted to the efli
cient operators at the Hendersonviile
exchange of the Asheville Telephone
and Telegraph-company for their effi
cient and polite service rendered Tues
day night while this paper -was receiv
ing the returns from the county and
district. While the work was harden
the young ladies, connections were put
up as promptly as could be expected
and especially did the long distance
operator take pains in getting the calls
through. Again we wish to thank
each and every one who were on dnty
at the local telephone exchange Tues
day, night. .
ASi extra telephone was installed in
the fiustler office and both phone3
were kept busy until late at nights
Many persons called over the 'phone
for the returns and these included a
large number of ladies which goes to
show thai vtsn are not alone when it
comes to tatlng an Interest in politics.
The office was crowded with interest
ed; people untir after midnight and
many remained until three o'clock In
the morning hoping to hear something
definite. This not forthcoming they
went to their homes and retired.
SENATE IS SAFE;
HOUSE EVENLY DIVIDED.
Although the democrats are assured
control of the senate by a working ma,
jority, control of the house was still in
doubt. The democrats had made slight
gains", however, in the late returns in
Montana and Kansas. At 1 o'clock
208 democrats, 198 republicans, twe
progressives. one socialist and one in-
dependent had been electerj, with twen-.
ty-flve congressional districts yet to
be heard from. .
riENDERSONVILLE TO
HAVE K.' P. LODGE.
State Organizer Harry Roberts will
reorganize Hendersonviile Lodge No.
116, Knights of- Pythias, tomorrow
night. At one time this lodge was one
of the most effective, in proportion to!
its membership, of any in the state,
and it is hoped to again restore it to
that position. ; -
Members of the Asheville Knights of
Pythias lodges are expected to & pres
ent at the reorgaiization of bte Hen
dersonviile lodge and a cordial invita
tion is extended to them to be present
by the state organizer. -
FBEIGHT DERAILMENT.
A- derailment - of a ' freight train at
Busbee Tuesday morning resulted inj
the injury to three mebers of the train
crew. ' " -" . ; ' -: .:: i , -
On the second day "after the Aineri-j Gregory Pays, Visit. -can
people cast, their presidential bai- Attorney ..General Gregory visitel
lots, thNe result still, is,in doubt and the democratic headquarters and was closl,-
contest between President Wilson and i eted with the chairman, but it was as-- -Charles
Evans Hughes -has narrowed ! serted h'is visit was-t5f no special sig
down to a point where it may be de- nificanc.e. ;Late in the afternoon "Mr;
cidecP by a few western states. ' j McCormick conferred - with - John B. .
It is within the range cf nossibnitiea
that the votes of national guardsmen-
on border duty might turn some of the
doubtful states from one column'to an
other. . . '
Based 'on actual returns received by
the Associated Press, the electoral col-
ilege now gives Hughes 239 votes, Wil-
sen 232 and leaves sixty" doubtful.
Two of the metropolitan newspapers
which supported Mr. Hughes give him
President Wilson 251 and
doubtful character of onlv !
ew Mexico and Minnesota,
Another, which supported the president
, t-ti j. v, o k iiu ild i,uuLV.uuiaii-o 1: i s 1 y
, . . . c . . -i . . m -
j mg mm soi voLfs, dui conceaes ivir.
i Hushes onlv -228 and reerards the oth-i
.r s -,. .,4.- L,xt..l
eio ia seveir siaica-as uuu.ui.ui. - - ""-"- "i' -""-o"!.
, I. Each of ,the national chairmen ex- had missed. A crowd of such propor- -presses
the. most serene confidence that ! tions that it. blocked traffic for blocks - -i
the ultimate results will elect his can- jin Forty-second,, street : gathered m. a
'didate. v rfront of '? democratic - headefarters.
With the contest narrowing stead-
ily to close votes inlhe vital spots, re-
counts are almost inevitable and "each
'cir?o- io- nr. tfoa. math fni- IrromilariHoa
f- - wew lork. Nov,
ta'tlieadquarters of both the democratic
iand republican national committees.
I Bulletins from states in which' the' re-
j suits are still in doubt were scanned
i en more eagreriv than last nieht. Both
! chairmen. ITance C. McCormick for the
Confidence in ; the outcome. The
former-was somewhat more explicit uv
i nis claims but the latter declared, after
- dining with Charles E. .Hughes, that
j the. nominee agreed with hhnthat the
republicans had been successful.
"We ask only what is fair," declared
Mr. Willcox. "We want only what we
are entitled to and that we propose, to
have.
Earlier in the day Mr. McCormick
I had announced that he had-sent -tele-I
grams to state and county chairmen
In doubtful states directing them to
keep careful guard over the ballot
boxes and their contents. .
That the Carolina majority for Wil-
i son and Gov. Bickett will round out
rrn. nnn .. a i -..a..-l ,
v,uuu ueiure ine nuaiaua utuv:iai Re
turns are in is the beiref today of Dem
ocratic State : Chairman Thomas D.
Warren. " Democratic gains in num
bers of counties over the majorities re
ported to headquarters last night con-
strain the state chairman to advance
his figures from the 45,000 that he es
timated last night the majority would
be-the vote for. Bickett was especially
strong and is showing up much more
in line with that for President Wilson
than was expected. Bickett having
proven especially popular with the
people. . ..
All ten of the congressmen are dem
ocratic. Chairman Warren says, with
Zeb Weaver defeating Britt (republi
can) in the Tenth district with the
least majority, and-i with Doughton
maintaining his 2,000 majority in the
Eighth district over1 Willams, and the
other eight 'democrats receiving ma
jorities ranging from 4,000 to 8.000.
He expressed the utmost confidence
that Weaver Is safe in the Tenth.
Practically official returns of major-,
ities In seventy-one counties received
at state democratic headquarters show
a total democratic majority for these
counties of 43,500. Chairman Warren
estimates that the remaining counties
will give 7,000 majority additional,
making the grand total of democratic
majorities for the state more than 50,-
000. JHiLcouhties of Halifax, Pitt,
Northampton, and -numbers of strong
democratic counties are included to
these, still reported. There are thir
teen counties having republican ma
jorities included in the calculation of
the majorities.' :. - v - . .
A notableV telegram came from
Sampson,, showing- that Sampson had
reduced her republican majority two
ago of 1,700 tq l.234. This-will show
dHof thvU;very v biggest democratic
gains; -ti.: the .state:butvfor twtJ years;
and.,pcu.y-asrrelliiiredm winning
ii
btancnneid ad peiancey wicoiir prom-.
uent democratic lawyers.
The,possiDjiity of an official count
being necessary in states where the .
margin apparent victory for one or the ,
other is slight was freely "discussed at
both headquatrers. It was liointed out
that :-f -the honse o representatives be
came 'the court of last-resortMn the
elect-on of a president, the present
house and hot,the one elected yester- ' -'
would, sit in judgment. , Noformai--
statements on the subject of a recount
i were made by either side, however. ! m
j V ' Wilson Men-Celebrate.
i . v, v, -
uu ouuw.uiB "
to -celebrate last night were, detenrin- -
. oat. oH t.AvinlN"TrrI.ft Vi o A TiTArTifr.itif
! ol tn niaTra im tATIifrlTt fflr wVl f i ' tlip-tf
Twcrv bands -. joined forces in playing
the TStar Spingled : Banner', :The- "
crowd; announced Us; totentiotrof pa-
Eaamc' alLOVer .meiCltV;!, .:;; !??;.' -
zona, Arkansas, uoioraao ioriaa,
Georgia,7 Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, . -Maryland,
: Mississippi, Misouri Mon-
tana7; Nevacla. North Carolina, Ohio,""
Oklahoma, South Carolina. Tennessee,.
1 Texas, 'Utah. Virginia, Wyoming,
Hughes carried the following states :
Connecticut i llaware,:imnois, . Mi-
ana. iowa, x mame: MassacnusetLs,
New fer
sey,. New York, Oregon Pennsylvania,
Rhodey Island, South Dakota. Vermont,
Wisconsin, , ;
The following states are classed as
doubtful: California; Idaho. Minnesota,
Nebraska, New Mexico. North Dakota,
Washington, West Virginia.
The states credited to Wilson have
232 electoral votes; to Hughes 239;
doubtful 60; necessary to elect 266.
Wilson is leading in California, Ida
ho. .Minnesota, Nebraska, New Mexico
and Washington, while Hughes leads
in West Virgina and North. Dakota.
i the silk banner to be awarded. IndL.
'cations are that hia. trophy lies between
Union'and Wake counties.but the offi
cial returns have to be in hand before
award is announced. .
BULLETIN.
At noon today the official recount of
the popular vote in Minnesota gave
Wilson a majority of 98. , '
BULLETIN 8 P. JLV
With 356 precincts yet to. hear from,
including some of the democratic
strongholds - in . California, Wilson ; is
leading by 3,848. Now looks like Wil-'
son will carry North Dakota.
SPABTANBUBG HOTEL HAN
- GONE INTO BANKBUPTCT.
Edward B.-Gresham, who operates
a' 'string 'of hotels in North Carolina,
one t '-' which is located at;; Kanuga
Club, near Hendersonviile. has filed a
voluntary petition , in bankruptcy in
the United States court -at: Charles
ton. S. C. The assets of the, hotel
promoter are ven . as $479.50 and
his . liabilities are said to be $288.
628.91. "Mr. rresham has many warm
friends in KehdersonxiHe and these
all regret to hear of his, financial difiEL
culties. : - V ,
The heavy advertiser of a certain1
town entered the editorial offices ot
the daily paper, and In angry and dis
guested tones delivered himself aV fol
lows. "What's the matter with this
sheet-anyway That was a fine mess
you people made of my ad yesterday."
What seems to be the trouble?-' ask-,
cd the editor, anxiously. "Read It and
see said-the, advertiser, and he thrust
a copy of the paper into theHBditoral
hands". The unhappy editor re? d. "If
yon. want to have a fit, wear Jinks's
shoes." -';-;; --:."vT;r;
in
