THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 202.
BARRK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMRKR 0, 191G.
MUCK, ONE CENT.
WILSON PROBABLY WINS
RE-ELECTION AS PRESIDENT
-
Prospects in the Close States Favor Wil
son in California and Hughes in Min
nesota Wilson 5,000 Ahead in the
Former Vote Very Close in the
Latttr State
PROBABLE ELECTORAL VOTE
Hughes.
NEW HAMPSHIRE IN
THE WILSON COLUMN
North Dakota Also Probably Democratic,
and West Virginia Republican From
Present Indications Wilson Will Have
273, Mr. Hughes 258 Electoral Votes
McCormick Says "It's All Over"
New York, Nov. 9. The election passed into the second day of
uncertainty, with President Wilson and Charles E. Hughes both
anxiously awaiting the count in a few states. Although still so
close that the result could not be regarded as sure, the indicative
overnight returns seemed to dispose of previously doubtful states
by placing West Virginia's eight votes in the Hughes column and
giving the four votes of Idaho and the seven from Washington to
Wilson. The Hughes total thus became 243 and Wilson's 251, with
266 necessary to elect.
The states in which the result was still in doubt to-day were New
Hampshire with four votes, California with 13, Minnesota with 12,
New Mexico with three, and North Dakota with five. The early
figures to-day gave Wilson a lead of nearly 5,000 in California, with
one-tenth of the precincts to be heard from. In Minnesota, Hughes
had a slight advantage, and he also led by a small margin in New
Mexico. In North Dakota Wilson was leading, while in New Hamp
shire the vote was very close.
Wilson
Alabama .. 12
Arizona 3
Arkansas it
California 13
Colorado 6
Connecticut . . .
Delaware
Florida 0
Georgia 14
Idaho ' 4
Illinois
Indiana
Jowa
Kaunas JO
Kentucky 13-
Louisiana . . . . JO
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada ,
New Hampshire . . . ,
New Jersey
Now Mexico
New York
North '-Carolina 12
North Dakota 5
Ohio , 24
Oklahoma 10
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Inland
South Carolina 9
South Dakota
Tennessee
'fexas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming 3
Totals 273
LOST WOMAN FOUND.
8
10
18
4
8
3
4
Mrs. Sadie Coats of Enfield Was Missing
Pay.
Enfield, X. H., Nov. 0. Mrs. Sadie
Coats, who was lost Tuesday and for
whom (10 men have licen hunting, was
7 found near the sugarhouse on the Frank
3 llfaskins place, late yesterday afternoon,
where she had evidently been for some
jtiine, sitting upon a large rock.
She was wet and cold, but otherwise
29 all right, and will recover from the ef-
15 fects of her 28 hours' exposure.
13 The community lias been greatly
stirred over this event and there is much
relief felt and expressed at this hour.
Mrs. Coats said she became faint with
fl walking and could go no further. She
had lost her rubbers in crossing swampy
18 land, but seemed not to realize that she
15 had been out so long.
12 Mrs. Coat has made her home for
years with Mrs. L. A. L. Vente. who
lives on the mnin road to Enfield Center
at North Enfield.
She went out Tuesday for her usual
midday walk going toward Enfield Cen
ter. to be gone for a half hour,
14 At the end of an liour when she did
3 (not return, Mrs. Venfe went out In
43 search of her. She traced her to Snauld
ing s corner,, where she was seen to tnk
the road that leads to Lock haven. Sh
was seen passing on this road by several
residents and was last seen bv Rural
5 Mail Carrier Hastings on the Lockhaven
38 road between the Hedstrom house an
3 I the clubhouse at Crystal lake
Mrs. Coats was warmly dressed, wear
ing a warm skirt, an outing Aannol dress
ing sack and a warm cape and gloves
but no hat. Mrs. Copt is a semi-invalid
but has been in very good health of late,
She started out on this walk with no in
d teat ton of either illness or low spirits
When Mrs. Vente was unable to find her
in her first search, she returned home
and advised the neighbors. Willis Dress
er, the next neighbor, with men, started
in search and Selectmen Ffsg and Coch
ran with men from Enfield village went
out also and made search in the wood
afner fit laLui,li liimtln.v aluiiit n.i
.rum ,j.,o out or im precincts in New lake cottages, but no trace had been
Mexico give tiugnes H.iHl and Wilson j found of the missing woman. Bv t
i phone word went out to all homes in the
' (direction of her going. Search was aban
WILSON LEAF) I4? RP. idoned at midnight but begun yesterday
GERMAN MOVE
REPULSED
ENTERTAINED BIG CROWD.
Old-Fashioned Singin' Skewl at Congre
gational Vestry.
Closing with an old-fashioned singin
skewl last night, the annual fuir of the
Congregational ladies proved one of the
most successful ever held, and when the
final accounting of funds is made, the
CHILD TODDLED
TO HIS DEATH
In Hand-to-Hand Encounter i!r,ttl!l,r',,,f f,ie won,an' "'wiuii wi Literally Beheaded by En-
XT.... o -n- n -in;--i be considerably enriched. . i- . .
Near Sailly-Saillisel
They Lost
NIGHT ATTACK MADE,
REPORTS PARIS
At least 300 people attended the sing
in' skewl and enjoyed the rendering of
the old-fashioned songs and the costumes
that were in style a generation ago.
Those taking part were Mrs. W. If. Gale,
Mrs. Carl Eisenwinter, Mrs. Gladys
llradley, Mrs. Will Holden, Mrs. If. .G.
Woodruff. Mrs. F. D. Ladd, Mrs. Ahbie
D. Willey. Misses Elsa Ramage, Glee
Wood, Katherine toting, Hazel Par
tridge, Katherine Martin. Merle (tow,
Margaret Woodruff. Ma!el Taylor, Rach
el Robinson and John T. Hubbard, Kleaz-
gine on Berlin Street
Crossing
TRAINMEN UNAV AE
OF 0CCUr ZNCE
rrencn Also 1 ell of Great er ,i. Dole. Fred ingiis, Leonard Hut.hin- Woman Saw Accident but
She Could Not Save
the Child
son, i)r. Joe Jackson, James Robertson
and Guy Oltolini, while "Cv" (Arthur)
ISigelow made a director who kept his
skewl right up to their places, and Miss
Mary Lease of the seminary faculty was
accompanist for the evening and played
a few notes on an old hand melodeon.
The carb of the simiin' skewl rmnila 1110 Irre & Chelsea yard shifter.
rsailly-saillisel on the Somme front last was as varied as could be imagined, poke "ran,le '-"-J', ran over and killed Steph-
night was repulsed after a brief hand- (bonnets, pantalettes, curls and real heir- Aj". two-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Activity on Somme
Front
Paris, Nov. 9. A German attack on
12
20
4
12
8
13
25S
"IT'S ALL OVER,"
SAYSMcCORMICK
Democratic Campaign Manager Sticks to
Figures That Wilson Has Won with
288 Electoral Votes.
New York, Nov. 9. At noon to-day
Chairman McCormick issued a statement,
baying: "It's all over; we have cleaned
them up. We stick unflinchingly to the
original figures Wilson by 288 electoral
votes." He added that every precaution
is being taken to protect the ballot boxes
where the vote is running close.
Concord, N. If., Nov. 9. With two pre
cincts missing, the count in New Hamp
shire at noon to-day gave Wilson a lead
of 121. This wag based on certified re
turns to the secretary of state from 238
precincts and press returns from the re
maining 54. The vote for Wilson was 43,-
842 and Hughes 43,721. Secretary Hean
Charleton, W. Va., Nov. 9. Mr. corrected his earlier figures, in which be
Hughes' lead over President Wilson in said the state was complete. The two
HUGHES IN W. VIRGINIA.
His Present Plurality is Well Toward
20,000.
by the soldier votje, show that neither
the Republicans nor the Democrats made
any net gain aniong the congressmen
elected.
LACKING TWO TOWNS
NEW HAMPSHIRE
GIVES WILSON 121
The Four Electoral Votes of the State
Seem Almost Certain for Demo
cratic Nominee.
West Virginia was suddenly increased
by 1,538.
Olio thousand, one hundred and thirty
one precincts for governor gives Robin
son, Republican, S)4,777; Cornwell, Demo
crat, 95,709.
One thousand, one hundred and thirty
five precincts for United States senator
pave Sutherland, Republican, 90,451;
Chilton, Democrat, 90,960.
Hughes' present plurality is 1,772. If
the same ratio is maintained throughout
the state Hughes' plurality will be 2,-f.70.
towns unreported cast a very small vote.
TO DEMAND RECOUNT
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
CLAIMS CALIFORNIA.
Chairman Rowell of Republican State
Ticket Says Lead Will Be Small.
San Francisco, Cal., Nov. 9. Chester
If. Rowell, chairman of the Republican
state central committee, predicted last
night Hughes' election in California by
a small majority. Mr. Howell's state- virtually Complete Returns Gives Hughes
f igures gathered by tne ios Angeles
Democrats Will Seek It Despite Figures
Showing Favorable Trend
Toward Wilson.
New York, Nov. 0. Henry Morgen
thau, in charge of Democratic" headquar
ters this morning, said that a recount
will be demanded in New Hampshire in
spite of figures showing that Wilson had
a slight lead. He aid the Democratic
figures show the Wilson lead as 500, and
instructions to the Democratic commit
tee in New Hampshire to demand a re
count have already gone forward.
DUCEI) INN. DAKOTA
Less Than One Thousand Votes Separate
the Two Candidates, with Nearly
Two Hundred Precincts Missing
Fargo, N. D., Nov. 9. Errors in tabu
lating returns from a number of west
ern precincts in North Dakota disclosed
on recapitulation at noon to-day cut
down Wilson's lead more than 200 votes.
With 1087 out of 1H."9 precincts report
ed, Wilson had 51,474 and Hughes 50,772.
VERY SMALL LEAD
IN GREAT STATE
morning, ending at dusk with the finding
of Mrs. Coats.
TWO DEATHS HIGH IN AIR.
Wilson Has 4,523 Over Hughes in Cali
fornia, with Several Hundred Pre
cincts Unreported.
Pan Francisco. Nov. 0. Returns from
5,364 out of 5.917 precincts in California
give Hughes 43(5.839 and Wilson 441,302,
a majority of 4,523 for Wilson.
DEMOCRATS MAY
CONTROL HOUSE
AS WELL AS SENATE
By Holding 10 Seats in the 21 Congres
sional Districts Yet to Be Heard
From.
New York, Nov. 9. The Democrats.
assured of control of the next Senate.
may retain control of the House bv hold
ing 10 seat in 21 congressional districts
yet to be heard from. Early to-day the
division of the members already elected
was: Democrats 210. Republicans 2IM1.
Progressives 2, Independent 1, Socialist
Were Experimenting with Explosives In
an Aeroplane.
Washington, l. C, Nov. 9. Two naval
officers lost their lives yesterday after
noon at Indian Head, Maryland, when a
new bomb they were experimenting with
in an airplane exploded while the ma
chine was loo feet up. The airplane and
its two occupants were blown to atoms.
This statement was issued at the navy
department:
"Lieut. Luther Walsh and Lieut. C. K.
Bronm were killed this afternoon bv
the premature explosion of an airplane
bomb during experimental work in test
ing bombs tor use against vessels.
"The bomb detonated immediately be
neath the airplane. It was seen to de
tonate and the airplane to break, in two
and fall into the river.
"Hardly any trace of the airplane or
passengers has been located yet. A por
tion of a human stomach has been re
covered from the river, but that is all.
This occurred at 2:45 p. m. to-day.
"The experiments were bring conduct
ed by Lieut. Wilkinson as representative
of the bureau of ordnance."
Lieut. Uronson, a naval flyer, was pi
loting the machine and Lieut. Walsh
was handling the bomb. Naval officers
here are inclined to believe that when
the bomb was thrown from the machine
it struck a guy wire or some other part
of the airplane. Lieut. Walsh tried to
drop the bomb- oh an object in the Po
tomac river representing part of a ship.
A searching party went to the scene
immediately and dragged he river. All
they found of the airplane was part of
the tail.
Lieut. Uronson was born in Illinois 27
years ago and was appointed to the na
val academy from New York. He was
to-hand encounter, the war office an
nounced to-day. There was great ar
tillery activity during the night.
RUSSIAN TROOPS
DROVE GERMANS
lopms being produced for the event and M0,ierm Ai of 27 Berlin street, on ,tho
many of these same articles, which have "ernn street crossing late yesterday aft
been carefully preserved, some of them ernoon. The crew did not see the child,
for more than a century, no money could nor were the engineer, his fireman or
buy. As times goes on and the customs the conductor aware that an accident had
of a generation ago are a!l changed, to occurred until Harry Arrigoni, a barber,
possess some of the articles then in use hurried to the crossing and snatched
becomes a real privilege. In knee the little one's body from the rails just
breeches, white stockings aniVwigs, part s the switch locomotive, in returning
IN DOBRUDJA of male memDPrs of thp fkewl were south tbward the street was about to
viviiiril, tiui. ,.t,i nnr inty aaill. .UIB. mtr
Thpre were numerous splprflnna f mm 1 Kenzie appears to havA hecii th nnlv
They Are Continuing Their Offensive father Kemp's collection of old-fashioned eye witness. She saw the child start to
They Are Driving Von Mackensen's (songs, and these were interspersed with cross the tracks toward North Main
I readings, soios ana oners, j rue to tne sireei, out coma not reacu ine crossing
Forces Backward. Ifilil-timi. tv1 t)m mpmlwri nf ftio ctrou-1 ill time to avert In n,iilnr Tlio Kur
il . 1. a: 1 . 1 i i . i A it .. i i. t i .
'ontinuini? their of-I moe its mev sanfj ami wnen i!iR'i, Jir'nii, was m nurit in rim snop in
"ii jctii in a. jini ii, i, i, it lining .., mi: lum .-' iiiiiiu mi tiiciiiiuiii rluic tiiicii ho
London, Nov. 9
fnnclva In Tl. .l.r, ,1 i a 4 tin Ri,..,un I riinnl I
have driven hack the advanced detach-hpltA often am,nied the hand in the was attracted by Mrs. McKenzies cries
ments of Field Marshal Von Mackensen's
forces and progressed southward,
war office announced to-day.
the
GERMAN ARTILLERY EFFECTIVE.
time-beating movement. One selection I for assistance. Dropping his shears, he
was sung hv note and it was evident I raced to the crossing in time to pull the
that Conductor Higelow had a pretty tal- body of the child from the rails. He laid
cnted bunch of male and female singers the little one in the grass and covered
in his charge. him with his apron before notifying the
future .Martins gal. Abigail. (Hath- train men.
erine) and Zabed (Eleazer; Dole, the Meanwhile Mrs. McKenzie had sent an
Defeated Efforts of French and British schoolmaster, sang a piece together, I emergency call into:the telephone cen
to Advance Dost Thou Love Me, Sister Ruth?' and tral office and a doctor, ambulance and
the audience could but admire the de- nolice were soon on their wav to the
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 9. Herman inure maiden who acknowledged Za bed's scene. Health Officer Dr. .T. W." Stewart
artillery yesterday defeated several ef- declaration made her "feel queer." viewed the remains and Chief Sinclair,
forts of the French and the British to Mis, Jerusha Jenkins, none other than who hurried to the crossing with Deputy
mane nuvanri'n on i ne ,-oiimic war iruni, Airs. Auwe l. u Hiey. denouncer! tne Sheriff G. L. Morris, conducted an inves-
tne war oince announced to-aay.
HIRSOVA RETAKEN,
SAYS BUCHAREST
evils of the present world in a recitation tigation before the body was transferred
that was thoroughly enjoyed, deciding to the ambulance. Dr. Stewart found
that for those who wished to be good that one of the' wheel flanges had liter-
this world was no place for them. ally beheaded the young one and there
i ncie ,jo,n (unflnes) jiigeiow 01 was an ami fracture.
Rrookheld came to town to address bis The Granite City was bound for tho
sons singin skewl and, incidentally, north end f the vard on a Miiintins-
statement issued umciauy xo-aay ue- tnose w no gatnered tor tne linal concert, expedition when the accident occurred.
and gave a recitation, entitled, "Old They were advised that the child had
Times and New," a comparison of the killed when Arrigoni, atter remov-
times wnen tne rugrims landed on tne ymg the from the traoki gipnaiiIKi
to stop as they approached the
i.- : .. A ! 1, u ... .
i- - a - J .J T - . J Liunniu. iliuium n. J. Ilimill t hi
war uince lo-oay announced ma. nuina- "1V f riltl, ma'. Advice" was snnrr kv ... u. ,i:.i. t Tr
nian troops had reoccupied the town f Mi,s Mehitable (Glee) Wood in a very "X char of the ZinT
lirsnva in liortriiil m on inn ifaniitw A.l-i . j l . 1. 1 : -. , i - .
"i. ..L " Vr u 7" ..' ; , ' H"-ainK manner aim ne waa uongea fireman assigned to the shifter was L.
respond to an encore, tne singin skew I p. whittemnre n..irIos his narcnts the
extra closed with the singing of "Cousin LhjM ioave, a voumrer brother and' a
ledertiali by Jeremiah (l-red) Jngns in ,rnt,,r fi,r ..., nU Th ltpr Aia is
. i. . . . i . -. it,. . .) ,. . t .. 1, .. I - -
i ik si.iu oitn. 111 c ii!. juiiiiiix uii Pacr-J ,n the meat hns mess.
i . . . i - i i i . i " i-
cnorus, ana mis, too, uriiinuueu nn en
core.
The concert was much enjoyed and at
intermission ice cream was on sale, a
tidv sum being received therefrom.
Manv of those attending the concert
rew of the German merchant submarine lingered long about the tables in the SERIOUSLY INJURED
HUt son land. i run rcu jmrjm nti unui r mr ipl uiic
A gold watch, bearing the seal of the 'd departed most of the articles in
itv, was presented to the captain and every line mat nan occn on aie nu
is men were given silver match cases been disposed of and the ladies were
nd fountain pens. more than pleased with the result ot tne
The submarine will be loaded to-dav efforts that had been put forth to make
nd it is understood she may make her t,le anair 8 iwess.
RECEPTION TO CAPT. K0ENIG.
New London Citizens Gave Banquet to
Submarine Commander.
New London, Conn., Nov. 9. New Lon
on's cMizens last night gave a reception
nd Ijanqnet to Capt. Paul Koenig and
The funeral wil! be held at the house
Friday afternoon at 2 o'clock and inter.
ment will be made in the Catholic ceme
tery on Becklev street.
IN FALL IN QUARRY
ash homeward Friday afternoon. It was
reported last night that the German war
ubmarine 1-57 was expected off l lcas-
re beach 15 miles to the westward
on Friday, but there was no confirma
tion.
MORE COURT OPINIONS.
HELD ANNUAL MEETING.
Vermont Holstein-Fresian Club at
Johnsbury. .
St.
Handed Down by Vermont Supreme
Court One Case Argued.
Opinons were rendered as follows dur
ing the afternoon session yesterday of
supreme court:
Caledonia county Martin D. Turner
vs. 1). J. Howard, apt., verdict tor de
feiulant reversed. Citizens Savings Bank
MAINE'S VOTE.
oflice of the Keiiublican state committee,
covering more than 1,000 precincts and
t 'i: , e ii..
I JUSi; CLlIllillf S (.'I I I1C ICI1IHIII1II IHUI-
cate that Hughes will carry Los Angeles
county by 2.').H00."
DELAWARE'S TOTAL VOTE.
Gives State to Hughes by a Little Over
One Thousand.
Wilmington, Del., Nov. 9. The com
plete vote in Delaware, according to un
ollicial returns follows:
Wilson 22..I25; Hughes. 23.68.1.
I'nited States Senator Josiah W. Wal
cott, Democrat. 21,979; H. A. Dupont,
Republican, 20,110.
Members of Congress, A. A. Folk, Dem
ocrat. 21,2l'i2;,T. W. Miller, Republican,
21,215.
5,118 Plurality.
Portland, Me., Nov. 9. Virtually com
plete returns last night of the heaviest
presidential vote ever cast in this state
with the exception of that of the "Green
back" election in 18S0, gave former Jus
tice Hughes a plurality of 5.118. He had
65,545 against 63,427 "for President Wil-son.
L 'attached to the naval aeronautic station
If the unreported districts hold their at Pensaeola, Fla., and recently ordered
present political status the Democrat! to Indian Head to conduct the airplane
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 9. The Vermont A Trust Co., vs. Amanda Jenkins, George
would have a majority of five in the next
House, which would stand, as follows:
Democrats 220, Republicans 211, minor
ity parties 4.
TO INVESTIGATE COUNTS.
HUGHES LEADS IN OREGON.
170,000 PLURALITY.
For Hughes in Pennsylvania on Uncom
plete Returns.
Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 9 As addition
al election ditricM are heard from,
Charles E. Hughes' plurality in Pennsyl
vania continues to grow. Returns from
ii.610 distriits out of B.fHiS gave hira a
plurality of Hi!.S.19 over President Wil-
hon. of which 125.463 was contributed by
Philadelphia and Allegheny county,
whiih takes in Pittsburg. The total lig
ures for the 5.649 districts are: Wilson,
419.225; Hughes .V'.UHH.
Returns from the congressional dis
tricts nhidi, however, may be changed
Was 6,430 Ahead, with Scattered Returns
From All But Two Counties.
Portland, Ore.. Nov. 9. Charles K.
Hughes was leading President Wilson in
Oregon late last night by 6.450 on the
face of scattered incomplete returns from
all but two of the 35 counties which
gave Hughes 101,085 and Wilson 94.635.
F.arly in the night Hughes was credit
ed with a lead of 10,000.
MINNESOTA FOR HUGHES
Atty. Gen. Gregory Confers with Chair
man McCormick.
New York, Nov. 0. Atty. Gen. Greg
ory went into conference with Chairman
McCormick at Democratic headquarters
yesterday afternoon. No statement was
made as to the subject of the conference,
but reports were current that the ques
tion of investigating the count in New
Hampshire and other doubtful states)
was under consideration.
part of the ordnance tests
Lieut. Walsh was born in and appoint
ed from 'Missouri. He was stationed as
an ordnance officer 1 1 the Indian Head
proving grounds and was- with Lieut.
Uronson as passenger.
EXPRESS TRAIN DITCHED.
WILSON WON'T COMMENT.
Although News Given Him Was Almost
Entirely Favorable.
long Branch, N. ,T., Nov. 9. Shortly J
Several Injured, But None Fatally, Near
Herman, Kan.
Topeka, Kan., Nov. 9. The Golden
State Limited of Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific railroad went into a ditch near
Herman, Kan., late yesterday, injuring a
numlier of persons. So far no fatalities
have been reported to the railroad offi
cials here.
Holstein-Fresian club held their regular
semi-annual meeting at the St. Johns
bury house Wednesday afternoon. The
business meeting commenced about noon
and was followed by a banquet for the
members and the club guests. The speak
er of the afternoon was Gen. C. W. Wood
of Worcester, Mass., ex-president of the
national association. Following the ad
dress, pictures of nationally known'Hol
stein cattle were shown and their pedi
gree given.
At the business meeting held before
dinner, minutes of the annual meeting
were read and corrections made. Other
necessary business was transacted. About
30 members of the state association were
present besides invited guests.
FUNERAL OF GEORGE COME.
HUGHES GOES MOTORING.
s for Two
After Studying the' Retu
Hours.
NewYork, Nov. 9. After
studying
before noon President Wilson was given j the election return two hburs this morn
a complete summary of the news to We, jnr, Hughes went, metering shortly be
including word that Senator Hollis fre noon. He declined to comment on
claimed New Hampshire. Although the tho returns.
word transmitted to ilson was almost
entirely favorable he reerved judgment.
On Basis of Returns from 2,376 Out of
3,024 Precincts.
St. Paul, Nov. 9. Returns from 2.576
precincts out of 3,024 give a plurality
of 1.092 for Hughes.
St. Paul, Nov. 9. Returns from 2.660
out of 3.024 in Minnesota give Wilson
169,126 and Hughes 169,433.
WILSON'S IMMEDIATE PLANS
TALK OF Till: TOWX
HUGHES LEADS IN NEW MEXICO.
Little Over One-Half Precincts Show a
Small Plurality.
Santa Fe, Nov. 9, Unofficial returns
Was Held from St. Sylvester's Church in
Graniteville.
Funeral services for George Come, who
died Sunday at his home in Williams-
town after a long illness, were held Wed
nesday at St. Sylvester's church, Gran
iteville, Rev. Fr. Turcot officiating. Rob
ert Kmmett court. No. 564. attended in a
body and there was a large gathering of
those who came to pay their last respects
to the deceased.
Burial was in the new Catholic ceme
tery at lower Websterville, six members
of the court, Joseph Bedard, Michael Du
quette, Henry Giguere, Alphonse Neddau,
Amedy Roleau and Mr. Boulrice, acting
as bearers.
Three sisters of the deceased. Mrs. Jo
seph Ijineau of Burlington, Mrs. Mary
Lagore 'f Hurlington and Mrs. JSora Ano
of Bedford, N. Y., were present at the
funeral.
W. Jenkins and Shcrburn Lang, decision
for orator to recover smaller sum af
firmed, Haselton.
Franklin county Joel Brown vs. A.
H. Aitkin and Anna M. Aitkin, verdict
for plaintiff for $450 affirmed.
Windham county Leslie K. Stratton
vs. Holden and Martin, verdict of $746.13
for plaintiff atbirmed. Haselton. Inez
J. Benson vs M. R. Crain at al, judg
ment reversed, motion of discontinuance
as to Crain.
Windsor county Valeria B. French vs.
Perley K. Whehlen, apt., verdict for
plaintiff for $97.62 reversed.
Washington county State vs. Marv
Monti, keeping, judgment of guilty affirmed.
The Peck will case from Chittenden
county, which is docketed as the case
of Donlv t. Hawlev, administrator, with
the will annexed, of the estate of Har
riett C. Peck vs. Harvey T. Rut ter, ad
ministrator, with the will annexed, of
the estate of F.dward W. Peck, was ar
gued to-day in supreme court. The case
has been continued several times and
was placed at the head of this term's
trial calendar.
Thomas Brady, Hurt, at the J. K. Pirie
Quarry, Was Brought to the City
Hospital ThislAfternoon.
Thomas Brady, a qnarryman employed
in the J. K. Pirie quarry, was brought to
the City hospital this afternoon suffering
from serious injuries sustained in a fall
in the quarry early this afternoon. An
inquiry at the oflice of the quarry
brought forth the statement that tho
cause of the accident was not known
there but that Brady either fell or was
knocked from the edge of the quarry
during the noon hour. Dr. G. L. T. Hayes
was called to the quarry and the injured
man was ordered brought to tbe hospital.
It is understood that Brady struck on
his head and that his injuries are very
serious. He is about 30 years of age.
GIRL'S NECK BROKEN.
TO TEST ADAMS0N LAW.
TWO MEN GORED.
Mrs. Annie Miles of Grotn was
Are to Attend Christening of Grand- ""f-'in "e rr v 1,v nospital yes-
. . . . tenia v tor an operation.
daughter Friday. , butc,lPI.t who his
Iiong Branch, N. J.. Nov. 9. Regard- : meat fnm a Ford truck, had an tincom
less of the outcome of the election. Pres- fortable experience in the south end tr
ident Wilson idbns to leave here Friday centlv when one of the quarry locomo-
morning for Williamstown, Mass., where tie brushed the rear end of the vehio
he will attend the christening Friday le. Aja had just negotiated the Circle
morning of the younger child of Mrs. street crossing in a bit of a hurry when
Francis B. Savre. hi daughter. the locomotixe came along and struck
From William-town he w ill go to the trii k. One wheel demolished ! pored by bull yesterday. Duval was
Washington. arriinn there Sunday and parts of the car found their ay brought to his home here painfully in
night. His plans for the interim between into Ah-x Milne's stne yard. Worknu-n j jured.
then and the osning of Congress in De- ffered their assistance to the butcher in. The bull was in the barnyard and at
ceniber have nt been made. , i removing his car iVoin the danger roue. tacked the men as they were at work.
Were Attacked on Elmer Darling Farm
in East Burke.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 9. Edward Duval
Union Pacific Railroad Co. Files Suit in
Nebraska.
Omaha, Neb.. Nov. 9. The I'nion Pa
cific Railroad company filed suit in the
federal court here yesterday to test the
constitutionality of the eight-hour law
recently passed by Congress and known
as the Adamson act. Ihomas
I'nited States district attorney
Helen Lewis of Andover, Mass., Victim
of Auto Overturn.
Andover. Mass., Nov. 9. Miss Helen
Lewis, aged 19, daughter of .11. Bradford
Lewis of this town, a prominent Law
rence manufacturer, was almost instant
ly killed in an automobile accident o
the Reading road late yesterday after
noon, when the touring car of ex-Senator
Joseph J. FIvnn of Lawrence, in which
she was riding with Miss Josephine
Flynn, aged 20, skidded and overturned.
Both Miss Lewis and Miss Flynn were
thrown out, the former's neck being
broken by the fall. Miss Flynn was
rendered unconscious and was removed
to the Lawrence General hospital, where
she was placed on the dangerous list.
Miss Lewis was one of Andover's best
known young women, being prominent in
social circles.
The chauffeur, Leo Danforth, surren
dered himself to the police and was re
leased on his own recognizance. He was
cut about the legs and hands.
TALK OF THE TOWX
Miss Grace Smith returned to her
home in Richmond to-day, after visiting
friends on South Main street during the
S. Allen. ;pat week.
and four Since the hospital liag day, numerous
Cniun Pacific trainmen representing the 'gifts of m-cessary articles have been
different railroad brotherhoods are made i brought in, the most recent about a doz
parties defendant. en additional bags from Fast Barre,
The bill of complaint alleges that the which the Vkoman nospiiai am wisnc
law is unconstitutional becausp it is not in this ay to acknowled.
a proper regulation of interstate com-j Mrs. Kllen Dutton. mother of Miss
merce. because it violates the pnarantees Abbie Alvord. w ho only a few weeks ago
of the fifth amendment to the fcleral ' resigned her position in tbe Homer Fitts
of St. Johnfburv and Charles Freeto of I constitution and because it is unworka- store to accept another position in North-
hast Hume, carpenters at worK on tneihle as applied to existing conditions tin- neia. aieu in umi i-im-r .mi.iih.t mgn
Klnier Darling farm at Fast Burke, wereider which the trainmen are operating, at the age of 74 years. She had own
tgrailllwlli tailing; ii'i smut- unitr inn isn
j-eks ago ufTi-red a shock front whicK
Mrs. Nina Me-watt of Pearl street was she ncer rallied. A son. Frank Alvoid.
taken to the CHv hospital yesterUy for also siiriv,s. The funeral was held Uii
an operation. " " " aiternooa.
