KWsfe
- -. w '.
. j's h v
'.
'
": w ;' -
rt K..3I
v r mi i
- v$
.
"I mf
.i
.",.
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
IClevcnllt Vcar No, .l 1 1
3ftg !Euimfn$ iteralS&
j
i
KLAMATH FALLTi
OFFICIAL NEWSPAP1X
to
Mi
1'yfS.1
WJ
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1916.
- mt 2. . lift, i '-t.'i
" "'"" -ww
jy
WON NEEDS CALIF. OR MINN. TO WIN
t-
m
l
.
w n
MUST HAVE 10 MORE VOTES TOBE ELECTED; HAS 2561
BUSINESS MEN ARE
HOSTS TO FARMERS
wwwwvyAvwiWW)MWM)WWMMMV
Deutschland Protected as if Made 0 Gold
K.VJOY IlKi DINNER AT MOOSE
HAM. AT MK
UmaIih-im M'ti Willi White Apniim
Walt Tiililr for Vlull lug I'linwr.
Hulil I'urmle Willi IImiiiI hi Mnlii'
Mrcrl J oat Before Dinner Furin.
rr Will Ctt Free Tickets to All
TlMltlCIK.
STRAHORN TELLS
FARMERS ABOUT
RAILROAD PLANS
askh i'xammol'k support
iiih i:nti:iipiuhi:
With the niorchaiitti UicmH.'lvos '
vniitngrh I" All CIiimhch of Better
ItflallUliy ColllHtllltlM Willi Port-
In ml Point Out Tlmi lie Come
to Klamath on ItcjuvktMir I-k-jiI
People mill 1'iiilliiiiil.
lervlng ns milium, fiirnicrH from nil Itiillnmil Jttilhlcr ItetieuN Many
sectien: nf Ktntuntli county worn on-i
tertalucd nt noon loduy In tin, Moohu
bill by the Klamath Fulls JIiihIiichi!
Men' Aiumrlntloii. A sumptuous din
nr m served by the buiilnciH nu-ii
without cost to the furmorH, Mint
jnocihcs made by Robert K. Slrnhorn
and others.
Iliiltlflnti Mr Qlrnltiiii f'tkiinlu fitti.
-i..i. . 1 '. ,. . !,l . J . Some of thu points brought out In
mlnlonir-t'luct llurrcl Short. County1
Agricultural Olalayer, Itov. Guorgn Mr- HtmlioTn-H talk at tho dinner glv
II. Dennett and Chnrlott W. Ebor- 'ii by thu Klamath Falls' Business
lela addressed tho visitors. W. A. Men's Association to this lulling
'Delicll wiih tonstmnstcr. 'funnels and others of thu Klamath
Thin Ih Community Day, and Ik tho country today worn eloquent nrgu
day when tho business men lira hosts inputs In favor of uuuiilmotiH sup
to their patrons outside Kliiiiiath port for IiIh Oregon, California &
Fall. Thu members of tho nsHoelu- Eastern railway-project.
lion Ktngul u parade just before noon To begin with ho outlined thu ad'
and Ix-hlud thu bind inarched down Mintages of dlBtance saved, quick sop
Main Btrcut, Each wort) h whltn cu. tho Kruat dovclonliiK effect of
lron and kept It on wltllu Ihvy hucIi tonHtrui lion, and tho better llv
wrrcd tho farmerH at dinner. Inc to bu enloveil hv many now iHolat
TliolntereiH of tho fnrmerM In Coen-jed throiiKh convenient access to tho
uiiiiy iniy wiih I'loniiy Hliown by Hid city itiul through their clober intor
laro number of them who mine totrouwu and ahocliintlon with ouch
lo to bu kuchIh of tho btiHliiefli utlior.
men. They tilled tho Moono hall ninl j Kor uxamplcs, tho Klumutli conn
llktcnud alteiitlvcly to tho Hjieecho'i try would bo hioiiBht over lull miles
m,lc. I nearer to Portland oer a lino with
ToiiIkIiI fieo tickets to all tlioitum ensy Kfden. This would mean four
In Klamnth Kails will bo rIvoii to thu' or (Ivo Iiouih uulcl.er tlmo for pusson-
1 ...-. -..,
I
vvMiixtmmmmmmmmM!msmz!K: mmmwJv"Ymmmmmmmmmmmmmmmgm, m mini mmmmmm
? 1 . 1 LaaaauPVa ,$U &'&!, F ,' , '-"?:' "M
?P T taaaaaiy???VSf!S!T!B iME5FTvMtt JMamaiaiaali B ($ tC "af s v V WUfct? aaaW vJaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaiaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaW
VV9Sk)vnv",'mw aT taaaaaaaaaaaaaaMMrWW fr ..:y " 2' Y . I ' f-'aaaV aaaaVBftaaaaaaaaaaaaaaWtTftaaaaaaaaaaaaal
i
Tho Germans bnvo fenced In tho to the public. On One side Is the
merchant submarine Deutschland, gtcte pier heavily guaMed, and nt the
wnicu arriven ai iow uuiuioii, uiiui.,
Nov. 1 finm llrcmcn after another rc
mnrkntilii vovnee. na If tilie wcro
made of gold. The arrow points to 1 which had been Interned In Boston
all there Is of tho submarine visible' harbor, protects her and n high board
back a shed, whic-litarded. Out
side tho Gorman steamship Wlllebad,
wall Is swung into place from the
bow of the steamer to the pier. Cap
tin Paul Koenlg and his crew, now
on their second successful submarine
voyage to tho United States, wilt live
on tho Wlllebad while in port.
LEADS CALIFORNIA;
LOSING MINNESOTA
FMrtMr(MFkMF(MrMMrMrMMFWMrVVWM
MRS. NIELHASE
CONTESTS DEAD
HUSBAND'S WILL
FlhKS SUIT IX COUXTY COURT
TODAY, CHARGIXG FRAUD
Allege in Complaint, Prepared by
Ferguson anal Drake, That Ueae-J
flciarics of WU Placed ia Court
Suppresseil RekltWill or Deceased,
Much to the Damage of Plaintiff,
Vlio is WIilow"o?"Deesedr''"
Early Bulletins
vialllns fniniers and their fttinlllcs,
Many produeiH raised by tho farm
era were on exhibition ut tho Mooso
l. and prizes on (theo will bo
ardcd. Tho iiriaes will ho redeem
We at any Klniuitli Falls store.
Women Are Worklnjf
United Pious Service
LONDON, Nov. 0. Moro than
f'0,000 womon have boon draft.i.l
llttQ VfllloilH trnflAu nnl n.A......l....' ,i.H..A ..M r,.i .wi,iiinr.,tnnu U'nillll ltf
1LBC0 tfc outbreak of tho wnr, I ford a supply which would bo moro
KOiH and ut least a day or a nlcht
quicker delivery of frolsht and ex
press Tho great Interior would bu
so devoioped and all kinds of traffic
so vastly Increased that tho Southern
Pacific would not miss tho business
taken by tho now line, hut would
hnvo more than over hoforo. Tho car
shortage so fiequontly prevalent
would be largely eliminated, because
dm now lino with the help of Its
Wome
n Will Hold Big
Meeting on Bend Issue
Not slnio tho women of Klnmnth earnest nnd dotormlncd to uto their
haveTi' 1",HKC'H'im, of tho franchise nn.uonco in tho election. This meol
"unSaeHo"!!? 8M irrt,Un'ty l P1-"1"'808 t0 b0 th0 ,n8t 'nt0r0Bt'
a-trass:; - m r ,,o,r
Btrahor,, railroad bond laiuo la voted event In this most exciting month.
" nou Tuesday, I Tho sorvlcea of tho hand havo beon
th. ,Womon of the city doclaro that! secured. A rattling good program of
tain ' bond ,MUe domanda In-', women speakers has been arraanged.
'"lent Invostlgajlon and action by Mr. Robert K. Strahorn has con
thi ?,lro bf,(,y of women voters of Bented to address tho meeting. Mr.
" lty Prior to eloction day, Noveni-J Strahorn has has fair warning thai
ran. i They orefore havo ar- the ladles proposo to oxecuto their
Uk ...n "",Ba metlnB of women to prerogative and ask questions.
" eid nt HmiutiiM'o ,..,.... u.,.... .. I Ti.iu win im thn first event of tho
kind over hold In tho city, und every
woman Is Invited nnd urged to he
present.
noirly adequate even In times llko
tho pi front, when untold Injury ls-ho-iiig
suffered by tho county through
. .-. I I .. 1 I .. .. Ml..a whfttt 1jcf4 if i
riiiicciiimon , imina .... " " i NHW YORK 10 n. m.. Nov. fl.
business which tho farming commun- W1h wgon lea(ng ,n CaIIfol.n,a
ity. as well as loc.U Industries had Hughe8 ,8 510 nhea(, , Mlnnesota,
spent ears In building up. . . .atllnir ... New Mexico. Doth
Mr. Srnhorn said ho had JUikcn 8Ues claim New Hampshire by a few
hold of tho railroad bltuatlon at votes.
Klamath Kails only after months of j North Dakota again has flopped to
in gent solicitation upon the. part f jAVIIson, giving him 250 votes to
the Klamath Commercial Club nnd Hughes 243. Thirty-two yet are
thu Portland Chamber of Commerce,' doubtful.
and only after both the Hill and Hir-1 jt j8 iVnrncd that federal investl
rlnuin lnterotts had olllclnlly ills- Kntorg wm bo sent to Minnesota so
elalmed any Intontlon of buttering crctly to luvestigato the election meth
rallway fucllitlus for years, It over.jti8 there.
After looking over tho situation care- j Tilts morning tho demociats say
fully for a yoir. and spending a small ( they are absolutely certain of Call
fortuno on engineering, he responded, fornla, North Dakota and New Mcx
to tho Klamath Falls request for n J jco nI1i probably Minnesota. Hughes
statement ns to conditions, upon is lending In West Virginia by 3,200.
which ho would Immediately build Twenty-one hundred Minnesota ml-
tlio road, commencing first nt Khun- ( utlumen's votes will not arrive until
nth Falls and working northward to iext Tuesday nnd may delay the final
llend, histoid of commencing nt the result.
north end, ns originally nrranged, ) Tho republicans claim New Mexico
this latter courso Involving n delny of i,y a small majority, but the demo
somo two years before tho Klamath crat will not concedo tho state,
country could reallo any direct bene- Roth sides are hinting at investl
llts. Ho was, therefore, not here In gntlons in several states.
tho attltudo of an ordinary promoter,
LATEST
AMAAMAAMMWWVMWWWWW
Unitod Press Service.
NEW YORK, Nov. 9. The repub
licans claim California by 500 votes.
The democrats now claim West Vir
ginia by 1,500. The republicans con
cede New Hampshire to Wilson.
Hughes Is 800 ahead in Minnesota.
Hughes' lead In Oregon Is growing.
Charging that Fred Melhase never
signed in the presence of witnesses
the will filed for .probate, that he
never said it 'was his last will and
testament, that It never was bis last,
will, and the beneficiaries named in It
have suppressed the true will, to the
damage of the plaintiff, Mrs. Henri
etta Melhase today filed suit, contest
ing the will of the late Fred Melhase,
her husband.
Melhasse died December 15, 1915
HUGHKS LEAD8 IX MINXESOTA
BY 800 VOTE8
TP
s
M
xi
' 1
$
V
3
Wilson Gets North Dakota, But
West Virginia Got to Hughes.
Xew Hampshire Probably Will Join
Republican Column, as Hushes I
Xow 270 ia the Lead is This New
Kagiand State.
United Press Service
NEW YORK, Nor. 9. Either Min
nesota or California are suMcient to
re-elect Woodrow Wilson to the pres
idency. He now has 256 electoral
votes sure, and need tea more 'to
elect.
California has thirteen and Minuet
sota fourteen electoral votes. .
With W6lprecrniStairHalr
oC'
.&i
t&
..
tVI
Mi
iVffl
Vri
-"S
?
is leading Minnesota by 800 popHiaV
votes. . A
United Press Service - t
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9. Com
plete official returns show Wilson" car
ried San Francisco county by a ma-.
Jorlty of 15,094 votes.
United Press Service
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 9. The lat
est returns Indicate that Hughes car-
I neu 1..0S Angeies county by
votes.
"j?ss?a
IS? I
. J I
- (.C
18,000
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9. 5,705
precincts glvo Hughes 454,210, Wil
son 458,769.
NEW YORK, Nov. 9. The Indica
tions are that Wilson is re-elected, as
California and Minnesota aare swing
ing Wllsonward, and either is suffi
cient to elect Wilson. Hughes must
get both to win. Hughes is leading
hi New Hampshire by 146, in New
Mexico by 258, and fn West Virginia
by 4,100.
MORE HTATKS
IX DRV COLUMN
On December 16th Gus Melhase filed
in the county court a will which was
presumed to be the will of Fred Mel
hase, his brother. The beneficiaries
named are Gus Melhase, A Melhase,
Richard Melhase, Emma Ketsdever,
Clara. Funk and Bertha Lehenbower,
ond all are made defendants in the
complaint filed today.
The complaint asks that the order
admitting the will to probate be an
nulled. Charles J. Ferguson and
Thomas Drake are attorneys for Mrs.
Melhase."
8at!i "' Ho"Btn'8 npera house on
Ml an anrnoont November 11th,
CHICAGO, Nov. 9. Tho drys
claim that prohibition has carried in
pushing a project upon tho commun- united Press 8ervice (Nebraska, Michigan, South Dakota.
Ity. hoping to rake off a lot of easy, ;,AN fraNCISCO, Nov. 9. 5.692 Montana. Florida. Utah. Alaska and
..... ....... nlinnl dI.Hui, tnrma ' ... .
money, oui wua ii-.j o.....r .... precincts in uaiuornia give wuson i Missouri.
In answer to a doflnlto request, upon' 45fi !i29 votea nljd Hughes. 451,274. California remains wet.
winch ho would take up tho wont nj,e8tor Rowell, republican state Measures in Colorado and Arkan
tho community wanted him to do it. jcmrmnn, at noon today calmed the bbs proposing sale of liquor, were de-
ii uiu fui" .n - - iaaie lor tiugiieH uy a uurruw uiursui. . luiueu
rights of way, terminals nnd other Ho yg tle ci0seness may split the
requisites lire forthcoming, construe
inn will nroceod Immediately, ho
Haiti. This will not bo limited merely
to a lino to Sprnguo River, as has
been stntod, but pushed right along,
ns rapidly as tho othor financing,
which Is well ndvnnced, is completed.
This will Includo tho lino through to
Ucnd and from Silver Lake to Lnke
vlow, with n connection across to
Hnrnoy Valley and ultimately from
hero to Lakovlow,
CIhm to Meet.
Tho study class in "Training for
Soul Winning" will meet tonight nt
the Christian church. Prayer meet
ing also will bo held tonight.
The
oclock.
women ot tho city nro very
Coiii'tiidcM In Town.
Mr. und Mrs. Frank Courtado of
Odessa ato spondlng a few days in
Klamnth Falls on huslnew nnd plena-nro.
ote as It was four years ago, and if
so, Hughes is elected.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 9. The
Philadelphia American, a strong re
publican newspaper, concedes Wll
sou's election,
CARRIER TO ODESSA
WANTED FOR WINTER
Here's a wlntor Job for somebody.
All the fellow who gets the Job has
to do Is go to Odessa and return two
or three times a week.
The postpfflce department wants to
give Odessa mail service this wiuter
after the upper lake freezes over nnd
boats can't carry the mal any longer.
The department wnnta bids for car
rying the mall twice a week and for
carrying it three times a week. Pen
sons Interested may apply to Post
master W. A. Delaeili
DICK POSEY TO
ENTERTAIN HERE
In "Just Common Folks," Dick
l Posey of Ashland will entertain to
morrow evening at the Methodist
church. Dick Posey believes In
laughter rant her thnn tears, and his
characters wear chin whiskers und
Bunbonnets, they eat with their
knives and drink coffee from their
siucers, they raise blooded stock and
statesmen.
Posey appeared In Klamath Kails a
few years ago and. greaaty pleased
the crowd which filled the Methodist
church. Hte.entertalnnient tomorrow
evening will begin nt 8 o'clock,
To Show Pictures.
Pictures of the holy Jand, illustra
tive of the talks on the "Life of
Christ," which are given every Sun
day afternoon by Deaconess Knight,
will be shown in the Library hall,
Friday evening at 8 o'clock. All wo
men are welcome.
United Press Service. ,
BISMARK, Nt D Nov.. 9. Nearly
compete returns indicate that Wiisou
carried North Dakota by between
5,000 and 10,000 votes.
5v
United Press Service.
WHEELING, W. Va., Nov, 9,
The democrats concede that West Vir
ginia has gone to Hnghes by 20,000.
votes.
'United Press Berrtea
NEW YORK. Nov. 9. Republican
naatlonal headquarters expect to an
nounce Hughes' election tonight, ac
cording to Chairman Wilcox. Deaao-
ciatic Chairman McCormlck says thV
race is all over; Wilson has won.
CONCORD. N. H., Nov. 9. With
40 precincts missing, Hughes Is lead
ing in New Hampshire by 279 votes.'
m
,
Klamath May Get Benefit
of Freight Rate Ruling
aw
;!3i;S&ij
That Klamath Falls may Boon get
lower freight rates from California
over the Southern Pacific railroad la
evidenced in a letter received this
morning by Klamath Commercial
Club from Bishop & Bahler of San
Francisco, traffic managers engaged
by the club and Business Men's Asso
ciation to help get better rates. The
letter explains more fully tbe tele
gram received Tuesday, which wah
printed In the Herajd,
Tbe letter follows In full:
Confirming our telegram of today,
copy of which is enclosed, relative to
tbe reduction ot freight rates be
tween California points and Dorris
and Klamath Falls.
. kM
We are enclosing a statement Ke
showing the present class rates Mdg&figgj
'the rates prescribed by tbe ralhrifA1
commission of California to, btcMlxii
1917. between San Franim.". rr,'?'fe"!t-?"
mento, Marysvllle and Redd'OiiVp
the one hand and Weed.jttog?5"
Klamath Falls on the c4aa!. LThSt "i?5Tv.
, yw-if' " )
proposed rate shown by us t,o Klcat- i., -?
nil. s.i.n .... t i,..s, mlk '-maiir r f
MU -n,.q ..v.m. m vvKrrn4m
scribed by the Calfpnia $rnmmSmii&gL,
because they have ao eeatrelktiCllaV .
J.W
V
terstate rates, but we have' UsedtX tf'
UHBis pjcrUBU u mm iammmmmm
tothe atate line, aliwaTrM
. - Ce4tlMMwNB
y
1I
B
