i Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916 No. 13 H
I Mr. Wilson's Acceptance
( TVT OST elegant in diction, filled with that sim-
plicity of expression that reveals the trained
. scholar so far as the literature goes the paper is
i a masterpiece. But there is nothing small in Mr.
I Wilson's claims for what his party has done.
I It is a reminder of the story of the rooster
L which on Easter- morning found some colored
I eggs which mischievous boys had put in the nests
L of the old polygamist's hens.
I He looked at the eggs, then looked at' the hens.
They all appeared to he innocent. Then the roost-
fb er went back and took one more look at the eggs,
M then poised his wings flow over the fence, licked
fe the stuffing out of a peacock in the next yard,
fk then flew to the top rail of a high fence, flapped
m his wings and crowed lustily.
R Indeed, it is a parallel case, except that he
f did not lick the peacock. The eggs are colored
all right, the old hens look innocent and there is
v . no discount about the crowing.
Li No one knows better than President Wilson
yv that the reason that there are any eggs at all in
V the nests is due to conditions altogether unnatur
L , al. A foreign war started a host of unnatural In-
l dustries and poured hundreds of millions of dol-
fcjk lars into the industrial channels of our country
p" and the stream is yet in full flow. That is the
' reason he is flapping his wings on the fence post
j - and lustily crowing.
He declares that the reason the Republican
i party was put out of power was because of its
" practical and moral failure to keep up with the
I country's needs.
! That requires no answer. Nine out of every
K ten persons in the whole republic will brand that
f for what it is worth.
""' He charges most of the failure to Republican
? tariff legislation. How did 'his party in congress
,Tf" vote when tariff revision was attempted?
r And what country ever progressed as swiftly
P' ' as ours under that tariff?
He declares that the Republican party was in
different to farmers. What country ever did as
much for its farmers as did the Republican party
i . , between the time Mr. Cleveland went out of office
!, and Mr. Wilson came in?
,1 k He claims wonders for the rural credit law.
y ' Wo believe it is a 'good law, but why not state
J i v Uie real facts, which are, that it is simply a modl-
I flcation and application of a law that has been in
& force in Germany for centuries, and framed for
Pp' this country by an ex-German banker?
- ' Mr. Wilson tells how the country was held un-
L der the control of the great banking interests for
years. Under what party was that control ob-
I; tained? Was it not a legacy left the country by
S Mr. Cleveland?
r Mr. Wilson is strong in laudation of the way
I .. the Democratic party has kept the pledges of its
3p platform of 1912.
f Why, that is to laugh!
K How about the prices that were to be lowered?
;? How about the revision of the tariff? Is anni-
& hilation revision?
Sl How about a free Fanama canal to American
Hp coast shipping?
lr How about a great merchant marine that was
to be" established and run at a generous profit
without bounties or subsidies?
How about the economy promised
When speaking of what his party has done for
the farmers, why did not Mr. Wilson explain, as
in connection with the tariff, that it was an in
sult to the American farmer to Imagine that he
could not on even terms prosper and educate and
feed and clothe his children in direct competition
with the more than half-naked races who dwell in
huts and live, in utter squallor and degradation?
But Mr. Wilson -does not become really facet
ious until he comes down to defending his for
eign policy; not really hilarious until he under
takes to defend his Mexican policy.
Of course, it Is deplorable that some hundreds
'of American citizens should be robbed and mur
dered, but we must put up with such little things'
until some devils and slaves that have been rais
ing hell for ninety-six years can become civilized
and establish justice in their land. If there is
anything else in the president's windy declara
tions, we can not see it.
The chief feature of the acceptance is the
claim that the Democratic party is the party of
wisdom, of progress and that holy patriotism that
is needed more than all else in this country just
now to meet the problems that are liable to be
sprung upon the country at any time. And
anyone who knows some little of the past as he
reads, does not know whether to laugh or to cry.
"A Greek Bearing Gifts"
PROFESSOR IRVING FISHER who we are in
formed is the professor of political economy
of Yale university, is out in a long paper giving
ten reasons why he is going to vote for President
Wilson.
We confess that we have been a little sus
picious of Yale professors ever since the late
Professor Sumner spent several years to establish
that all the old authorities were wrong, that the
facts they stated were really not facts when
looked upon through modern lenses, and that two
times two did not necessarily make four, but
might be six or only three.
Sometimes horse trainers over-work and un
derfeed their animals until they became fretful
and impatient and disposed to be disobedient and
the best in them cannot be gotten out.
Experienced horsemen, seeing them, decide in
a moment, that they have been over-trained. We
suspect that a good many college professors are
suffering from the same distemper.
Some things that have happened during the
past three and a half years, have caused a good
many people to question whether a university
professorship is really a synonym of real states
manship or not. Some people are so irreverent
as to begin to think that some of these gentlemen,
after a while, get into a habit of reasoning after
this fashion: "I have mastered the sciences, ex
plored the heights and depths of literature; I am
familiar with the best thoughts in all the lang
uages; I know the world's history and how na
tions have risen and then passed away; all ac
knowledge that I am filling this narrow sphere
grandly why could I not govern the world just
as well?"
After that they cease to study, and pose on H
what they knew, and are really astonished at BM
themselves for being so polite to so many inferior lfl
men. And all the time they are as Senator Jones H
once told Senator Lodge, "You don't know a d d H
thing in the world of how a poor man goes to H
work to make a living for his wife and babies." H
We can judge a little of Professor Fisher's H
caliber from a single paragraph. He says: "It H
was the Civil war which made protection appear H
to be American and through this perversion of H
ideas gradually turned our government over to H
the domination of private interests. It took us a H
generation to realize that we were being used as H
beasts of burden by special interests." H
From that we have a right to conclude that H
Professor Fisher's knowledge of the history of H
the United States dates from the Civil war, his H
ideas about the tariff from a careful reading of H
the life of John C. Calhoun. H
In 1857 California had been pouring a steady H
stream of gold into the nation's treasury for eight H
years. There suddenly came a great panic and H
for the first time the skilled laborers of the east H
were forced to cat the bread and free soup of H
charity and times were so hard that the govern- H
ment was forced to issue $200,000,000 of bonds, at H
high interest and to sell them at a grievous dis-
count to pay running expenses. H
Investigation showed that all the gold from
California except $50,000,000 had been sent away H
and all the warehouses along the Atlantic coast H
were stuffed to the point of bursting with for- H
eign goods. That was before the Civil war and H
was but a repetition on a larger scale of what jH
had happened twice before. Moreover it was re- H
peated when Mr. Cleveland and his party gave the H
country "industrial freedom" in 1894. And when H
by the tariff the American people were being H
"used as beasts of burden" who suffered from it? M
And since the Underwood bill became a law H
which Mr. Fisher heartily approved and we re- H
gained "industrial freedom" who has been bene- H
flted? Since the American artisan was placed on M
a level with tho pauper paid artisan of the old M
world and the American farmer was placed on a M
level with the breech-clouted, half-barbarian of M
Cuba do we all breathe easier? Have prices been M
reduced? Have taxes been reduced?
As professor of political economy in a great M
university can this learned gentleman apply any H
of the rules of political economy to this case and M
establish that he is writing common sense? H
It would be easy to answer all the nonsense
of his article but it is not worth it. One lumin- H
ous fact shines out from it all and that is that J
when he poses as an independent voter he is M
but wearing a mask, that every drop of blood in H
his arteries is Bourbon blood, and that in politics H
he has forgotten nothing and learned nothing H
since he has been a man. H
That Averted Strike I
FOR several months the railroad unions have
sought to obtain an eight-hour day and in ad- H
dition a concession whereby extra hours work
was to bo vastly increased. As for instance if a
broken rail, or a washout, or a disabled locomo- H
tive delayed a train say four hours, the train crew
