[55*
The Intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pen.
PRESIDENT WILL
NAME COMMISSION
Conditions Will Be Investigated
Fine or Imprisonment Pro­
vided As Penalty.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 9.—Follow­
ing is the text of the revised Adamson
eight-hour bill that was put through
the house and senate for the pur­
pose of preventing a railway strike:
A BUI.
To establish the eight-hour stan­
dard workday in the interstate trans­
portation and for other purposes:
Be it enacted by the senate and
house of -representatives of the
United States of America in congress
assembled:
Section 1—That beginning Decem­
ber 1, 1916, eight hours shall, in con­
tracts for labor and service, be deem­
ed a day's work and the measure or
standard of a day's work for the pur­
pose of reckoning the compensation
for service of all employes who are
now or may hereafter be employes of
any common carrier by railroad,
which is subject to the provisions of
the act of February 1, IS87, entitled
"an act to regulate commerce," as
amended, and who are now or may
hereafter be actually engaged in any
capacity in the operation of trains
used for the transportation of per­
sons or property on railroads from
any state or' territory of the United
States or the District of Columbia to
any other state or territory of the
United States or the District of Co­
lumbia, or from one place in a ter­
ritory to another place in the same
territory, or from any place in the
United States to an adjacent foreign
country or from any place in the
United States.
Commission of Three.
Section 2—That the President shall
appoint a commission of three which
shall observe the operation and ef­
fects of the institution of the eight
hour standard workday, as above
definite,, and the facts and conditions
affedting the relations- between such
common carriers and employes dur­
ing a period of not less than six
months nor more than, nine months,
in the. discretion of the commission,
and within 30 days thereafter such
commission si-all report ts findings
to the Presdent and congress that
each member of the commission
created under the provisions of this
act shall receive such compensation
as may be fixed by the President.
The sum of $25,000, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, be and
hereby is, appropriated out of any
money in the United States treasury
""riot otherwise appropriated to be im­
mediately available and to continue
available untl the close of the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1917, for the
necessary and proper expenses in­
curred in connection, with the work of
such commission, including salaries
per diem, traveling expenses of mem­
bers and e.iployes, and rent, fur­
niture, office fixtures and supplies,
books, salaries and other necessary
expenses, the same to be approved by
the chairman of said commission and
audited by the proper accounting of
fcers of the treasury,
Fine For Violation.
Section o—That pending the report
of the commission herein provided for
and for a period of 30 days there­
after the. compensation of railway
employes subject to this act for a
standard eight-hour workday shall
not be reduced below the present
standard clay's wage, and for all nec­
essary time in txcess of eight hours
such employes shall be paid at a rate
Continued on Page 3.
By E. N. CLOPPER.
In the Survey.
The people of South America have
again given proof of their originality,
sympathy, and breadth of vision. A
few years ago Chile took the initiative
in trying to bring about cultural re­
lations among the peoples of the
western hemisphere through the es­
tablishment of the Pan-American
Scientific Congress, whose second
fiieeting, held last winter in Washing­
ton, was at once a success in the best
sense
of
the term and a triumph for
the progressive South American re­
public that instituted it. The social
workers of the Argentine republic al­
so had a vision they conceived a so­
cial welfare relations among all the
countries of the New World and,
choosing the child as the best me­
dium for drawing the nations to­
gether, held in Buenos Aires- from
July 6 to 16 the First American
.(Congress on. Child Welfare.
The congress was in session while
the Argentine republic was celebrat­
ing the one-hundredth anniversary of
the establishment of its political in­
dependence, and this lent added slg
nifigance to the fact that the inde­
pendence of no people is secure unless
the rights of the child are recognized
jand respected, it was in no way an of
fficial gathering. The government of
the Argentine did not act ajs sponsor
nor patron, nor did it invite other
U, S. CONSCRIPTION
Congress Passes Eight-tio*A? Joker" In "National Defense1
Fixing SstandArd for Em- Provides For Draft In
ployes' Service.
of War.
When President Wilson signed on
June 3 the so-called 'National defense
act," sometimes called the Hay-Cham­
berlain act, he signed a law which pro­
vides. in time of war, for the conscrip­
tion of American citizens between the
ages of 18 and 45.
He didn't realize it at the time. At
least there is every reason tothink
that he didn't. Certainly Very few of
the congressmen and senators who
voted for the army reorganization law,
knew that there was a general con­
scription clause in it, slipped into the
law by Hayden of Arizona, clinched in
conference committee by Hay and
Chamberlain and unwittingly adopted
by both houses.
The American Union against militar­
ism has been endeavoring for the last
six weeks to persuade the administra­
tion leaders frankly to recognize the
legislative fluke, whiah has occurred,
and to get behind an act for the repeal
of the obnoxious clause, if not at this
session, at least at the short session
which opens in December. The time
has come to acquaint the country
with the facts. Bills will be intro­
duced for the repeal of the objection­
able clause. These bills keep their
legislative status at the next session.
Now is the time to pledge your sena­
tors and your congressmen to the
prompt repeal of the clause,,when
congress meets next December.
When the Hay bill was reported out
to the house by the military affairs
committee, it contained no provisions
whatever for conscription, unless the
technical provision permitting the
President to "draft" the national
guard into the federal service in time
of war* be so considered But on Wed­
nesday, March 22, Chairman Hay pre­
sented a "committee amendment"
which had been drafted, he said, by
Hayden of Arizona. This amendment
provided for the establishment of "re­
serve battalions" in time of war.
/. Re^crve l^ttalioii.
The "reserve battalion" is an Eng­
lish idea. When a regiment is sent to
the front," to be cut to pieces under
fire, a "reserve, battalion" is estab­
lished at the home depot to secure re­
cruits, train them and feed them to
that particular regiment at the front
as rapidly as they are needed. A
sensible scheme and in marked con­
trast with the American plan wfhich
has been to form all the new recruits
into new regiments, regardless of how
badly cut. to pieces the older regi­
ments cn the firing line may be. When
the veteran regiments in the Civil
war were reduced to three and four
hundred men, the practice was to
consolidate several regiments, produc­
ing vast confusion in regimental rec­
ords and no end of jealousy and fric­
tion among the officers. Hayden's
amendment would abolish all that.
But down in the middle of the sec­
tion was the following clause:
"If for any reason there shall not
be enough volunteer enlistments
to keep the reserve battalions at
the prescribed strength, a suffi­
cient number of unorganized mili­
tia shall be called into the serv­
ice of the United States to main­
tain each of such battalions at
the proper strength."
The "unorganized, militia" means all
male citizens with certain specified ex­
emptions, between the ages of 18 and
45. The whole section was read in
the usual singsong by the clerk. Mr.
Hay made a somewhat indefinite ex­
planation of the reserve battalion
idea Minority Leader Mann quizzed
Continued on Page
governments to participate. Perhaps
for this very reason the congress was
all the more successful in accomplish­
ing its purpose, inasmuch as a hearty
spontaneity and absence of formality
characterized the sessions and con­
tributed greatly toward creating a
genius spirit of friendliness and
good-fellowship not always to be ob­
served on official occasions.
Fefteen Republic Represented.
Fifteen of the American republics
were represented by delegates, an ex­
cellent showing when one takes into
consideration the great distance that
separate some of the countries (the
voyage from New York to Buenos
Aires direct requires twenty-three
days), the cost of transportation and
the difficulties of travel quite gen­
erally encountered in many of them.
The Spanish language was, of
course, almost exclusively used in the
sessions, an exception being made in
the case of the Brazilian delegates
who spoke the Portuguese tongue,
which, however, 4s readily understood
by all who are familiar with Castilian.
English was used only once—when
the Star-Spangled Banner was sung
by the little delegation from the
United States at the special request
of the Latin-Americans, bujt it is
doubtful whether-the words were un­
derstood, for, as often" happens at
such times, the: song was pitched too
Vol 23, No. 57, DULUTH AND SUPERIOR SEPTEMBER 9,1916.
&
NON-MILITARY UNION
RECOMMENDS REPEAL
Fluke In Measure Was Not
Noticed By Most Members
of Congress.
Next Tuesday, September 12th, is Registration Day
for the new Charter Amendment. We hope all our read­
ers will register for that election, no matter how they
vote. A large vote should be cast at every election that
changes our charter in any way. Indeed a larger vote
should be cast on our local laws than on any other
subject. It is much more important to the citizens of
Duluth that they vote on their own Charter than that
they vote for a governor or a president. In charter mat­
ters the people of Duluth are supreme, and it is about
the only sphere of government in which they are su­
preme. Even the Supreme Court, we are assured, will
not disturb the vote of the people on the particular
subject we will decide at this election. So REGISTER
next Tuesday.
The proposed amendment to the charter provides
for the levy of not to exceed three mills on the dollar
of assessed valuation, for the years 1916, 1917 and
1918, to provide funds for paying for the city's por­
tion of the cost of storm sewers and street pavements.
No part of the moneys raised by this levy can be used
for any other purpose, and the amendment automati­
cally dies at the end of three years.
We believe the amendment should be adopted.
The Charter Commission has unanimously recom­
mended it. That commission is appointed by the
judges of the District Court. Its members receive no
pay. No man nor group of men can influence or con­
trol them, except by argument. They have never been
afraid to do what was right. They have made an ex­
haustive examination of the facts have gone through
the city hall with a fine-tooth comb and have unani­
mously decided that this amendment is necessary and
proper. It is not what any of the city officials recom­
mended. It is less. But it is what the Charter Com­
FIGHT FOR UNTAINTED
JURY NOT YET WON
TRINIDAD, Col., Sept. 7.—Renom
ination of Granby Hillyerrfor judge of
the Third judicial district indicates
that the fight for an untainted judici­
ary in this state is not yet won. Judge
Hillyer was formerly atterneyfor-the
coal operators and was appointed by
Governor Carlson to his present posi­
tion, which was crcated- by the last
legislature. Judge Hillyer heard
many of the miners'1-cases but the
workers finally secured an order from
the state supreme court debarring
him from further consideration of
these cases.
Judge Hillyer's sentence of life-im­
prisonment for John R. Lawson was
set aside by the state supreme court
and that unionist has been released
on bail pending a new trial. When
asked- if he had anything to say why
sentence should not be pronounced,
Lawson denounced Judge Hillyer and
his hand-picked jury, composed of
coal company partisans.
STRIKEBREAKERS STRIKE.
MARINETTE, Wis., Sept. 7.—The
Central West Coal company believes
in "freedom" to such an extent that
it held back wages it promised im­
ported "free and independent" work­
men. The company has a strike of
strikebreakers on its hands as a re­
sult. Former employes demand a
nine-hour day, improved working con­
ditions and a living wage.
OPPOSE JITNEY ORDINANCE.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa., Sept. 7.—
Trade unionists are opposing a jitney
ordinance which would compel all
jitney drivers to give a bond of $2,500
and would be the means cf putting
most of them, out of business. The
workers ask that enforcement of the
ordinance be postponed while the
street car strike is in progress. The
strike has been on for several months.
ALL NATIONS OF THE NEW WORLD ARE FOR
high.
Among the many enjoyable feat­
ures was the comradeship particu­
larly on trains returning from visits
to institutions outside of Buenos Aires
when all the delegates sang their re­
spective national hymns, provoked a
wholesome rivalry and joined in the
sparkling repartee for which the
Latins are so justly noted.
Upon the invitation of the local
government authorities a very inter­
esting trip was taken to La Plata, the
new and well-planned capital of the
province of Buenos Aires, where a
day was -spent in visiting the Uni­
versity of La Plata and the provincial
government offices in charge of pub­
lic education and child protection.
On anotheV occasion We wefre the
guests of Dr. Cabred, director of the
national government's institutions for
children, at Torres, where the colony
for feeble-minded children is located.
This is a thoroughly modern institu­
tion, on the cottage plan, built and
equipped according to the best
thought and experience in this field
of child-caring. A noteworthy feat­
ure is the suppression of the admin­
istration building—Dr. Cabred de­
plores the practice of erecting ex­
pensive structures for offices and in
this institution has utilized the sec­
ond floor of one of the shop buildings
for administration purposes, thus say­
ing the cost of ait additional build­
gQB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC SWOBM AND POLITIC-AX PROGBESS.
IF YOU DO NOT REGISTER NEXT TUESDAY
The Labor World Urges Every One of its Readers to Vote for the Proposed
Charter Amendment to Increase the Tax Levy. The City Needs the
Money To Keep Pace^th Its Growth. This Is a
Call To Your Patriotism
STATE INSURANCE
FAVORED IN OHIO
CINCINNATI, Sept. 7.—-Because of­
ficial acts and judiciaf decisions have
undermined the purpose of the state
workmen's compensation law, Secre­
tary-Treasurer Donnelly of the state
federation oflttbt^jiir^er -Ohio trade
unioniets to cireiriJ^'petftioris for a
referendum law that will prohibit pri­
vate companies-from writing liability
insurance. The executive hoard of
the state federation-of labor, inaugur­
ated by this referendum because of a
recent decision by the state supreme
court and the licensing companies iby
the state insurance commissioner. The
workers insist that these-rulings have
violated the spirit of compensation
legislation and they are demanding
that private companies be eliminated
and that employers contribute to the
state fund or pay compensation direct
to injured workmen.or the -dependents
of those killed in industry.
POLITICIAN PLACES
HOGS ABOVE CHILDREN
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Sept., 7.—
United States Senator Bryan of this
state opposed the child labor bill on
the ground that it invaded "state's
rights," and Dixie, a weekly news­
paper published in this city, says:
"State's rights is a bugaboo used
only at times by near-statesmen when
it serves their purpose.
"When hog cholera measures are
considered they want the government
as a whole to act as protection of the
hog.
"But when a governmental ques­
tion is proposed to protect the Ameri­
can child from the poisoned atmo­
sphere of the unsanitary factories they
cry 'Invading the rights of states.'
"Do they consider the^hog superior
and of more importance than the
child?"
ing and using the money to provide
more essential things.
The president of the congress was
Julieta Lanteri Renshaw, a physician
and prominent social ^worker of
Buenos Aires, to whose energy, faith
and personal sacrifices the organiza­
tion of the congress was due, and who
was ably assisted by leaders in the
professional, social &nd official life
of the Argentine.
Series of Meetings.
Series of section meetings were
held for the discussion of problems
connected with (1) law in. its rela­
tion to the child (2) psyhochology
(3) sociology (4)' education (5)
hygiene (6) industrial legislation
and (7) aid to mothers and children.
A synopsis of each paper reavd before
these section meetings, together with
a brief summary of the conclusions
reached by the author, wsa required
to be submitted in advance to the ex­
ecutive committee these synopsis and
conclusions were then printed in. the
form of a papmphelt and distributed
among all members of the congress
with a' view to affording the oppor­
tunity 'to prepare, themselves for
thorough consideration and discus^
slon of the subjects to- be presented.
This most e^cellentdevicefor in­
suring adequate treatment of subjects
In section jneeting .programs might
Veil, he adopted ..latl^$idjte& States.
4
mission says is sufficient, and no more.
The city council cannot spend the money for new
lavements unless the people want them. The right of
petition and protest already provided for in the charter
Covers 'that point. The downtown streets have gen­
erally been paved, and the storm sewers for the down­
town sections have been built. The people in the out
Jylng districts also need sewers and pavements. If they
petition for them, they should not be denied them be­
cause the city is short of funds for paying its portion.
It is only fair to the residential sections that they also
have an opportunity to pave~and sewer their neigh­
borhoods if they want to do so.
The amendment will affect the large land-holders
and business sections more than it will the small home­
owners. The former seem to be willing to support
the amendmelt for the benefit it will be to the. city
to have good highways and a good drainage system.
Indeed it is because the amendment is a matter of gen­
eral bfehefit that it is being supported by all classes of
our citizens.
We believe the people in the mass are wise, and want
to be right. We people of Duluth are proud of the
right we have to legislate for ourselves. We claim we
do the, job better than any representative elected by
rthe people can do. If we don't do the right thing now,
he legislature next winter may do the wrong thing
or, at least, a worse thing. The opponents of the ini­
tiative and referendum say that the people cannot be
depended on to sustain good government, when it means
an increase of, taxes. We deny that, and we want to
see the people of Duluth vindicate themselves as a self
governing electorate by adopting this charter amend­
ment.
But if you don't register, you can't vote. So REGIS­
TER next Tuesday.
MOBILE PAPER LAUDS
NEW CHILD LABOR ACT
MOBILE, Ala., Sept. 7,-r-The Reg­
ister expresses this thought on the
federal child labor act, which is sup­
ported by every thinking southern
citizen, despite contrary views of a
tew
mill owners and their representa­
tives:
"The evil sought to be abolished is
of sufficient extent and magnitude to
call for federal control.' The states
have various laws, some have ade­
quate laws some have virtually none
and-there is nothing uniform or cer­
tain in the enforcement. The mill
men, by their opposition to the intro­
duction and passage of salutary legis­
lation by the states, and their failure
to adopt voluntarily a sanitary and
humane employment system, have in­
vited congressional supervision. This
appears to. be one instance where the
people would cordially approve of
centralization of power,. the states
having failed notoriously, to give to
the little children the protection to
which they are entitled."
O
SHOP MEN STRIKE.
CHILLICOTHE, Ohio, Sept. 7.—Be­
cause the Baltimore & Ohio railroad
rejected a demand for wage increases,
140 helpers and laborers in the rail­
road shops have suspended work.
Present rates range from 16% to 21
cents an hour.
DEMAND EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
DAYTON, Ohio, Sept. 7.—Machin­
ists employed in local factories have
suspended work to enforce an eight
hour day.
Practically every machine shop in
the city is tied up. The strikers were
refused a hall to hold their first meet­
ing and 5,000 machinists and sym­
pathizers listened -to stirring addresses
while standing on the flat lands along
the river bottom.
At the congress In Buenos Aires it
proved very effective in provoking
and sustaining an animated and in­
telligent discussion at each meeting
and it has the further and great ad­
vantage of discouraging the reading
of hastily prepared and uninstructlve
papers. Unlike the procedure of the
National Conference of Charities and
Correction, each conclusion arrived
at by the author of a paper is sub­
mitted to a vote of the delegates pres­
ent at the meeting and is approved,
amended or rejected as seems best.
The action of the delegates on each
question is then published as part of
the proceedings of the congress.
The isolation of the social work­
ers of the United States'in respect of
the development of distinctively
American ideals in social welfare (us­
ing the term "American" in its
broader sense as it is commonly, un­
derstood in South America,)
was borne in upon the ob­
server from our country thus
thrown into contact with the other
peoples of the American continents
who are so little known to us and yet
are facing in their own tends practi­
cally the same situations that affect
the well-being of the United States,
and staking solutions for. problems
virtually identical to dur own., The
need ti friendly discussion and inter­
course }to advance the spclal interests
MINNESOTA.
ISTORKpAJS
SOCIE
Declares Republic Has'Right to
Settle Its Own Affairs
If Possible
HAS TRIED TO AVOID
ARMED INTERVENTION
Wilsons Progressive Policy
Praised by Democratic
Text Book
An authorative interpretation of
President Wilson's Mexican policy is
contained in the Mexican chapter of
the Democratic National Text book
just published.
"President Wilson's faith in de­
mocracy, and the unselfishness of the
United States in international deal­
ings," says the text book, "have been
so strikingly expressed in his Mexi­
can policy, that they constitute the
greatest contribution which the coun­
try has made in many years to the
progressive thought and mankind."
The keynote of Wood row Wilson's
endeavor throughout the long, varied
and difficult course of Mexican af­
fairs is summed up in the chapter
heading: "Wilson's demand for Mex­
ico is—Justice.'*
The chapter says, in part:
Must Settle Own Affairs.
"The belief, established upon the
history of the world, that Mexico will
never become a peaceful and law
abiding neighbor of the United States
until she has been permitted to
achieve a permanent and basic set­
tlement of her troubles with outside
interference.
"All Latin-Americans looked on in­
tently as the United States dealt with
Mexico. Suspicion, which had been
engendered by the long years of mis­
understanding and mistrust, preced­
ing Mr. Wilson's administration,
made the Mexican policy in the eyes
of our neighbors a real test of the
sincerity of the friendly protestations
the United States was making to all
the governments of America. The
more fortunate republic of Central
and South'' America clearly were of
the conviction that they could ex­
pect no better treatment for -them­
selves in less fortunate circumstances
than the United States would mete
out to Mexico.
"It should be remembered that al­
ways in the Preslden's mind, there
had been reservation as to the extent
of sacrifices which the United States
could make in order to avoid armed
clashes with one of the offending
Mexican factions. The purpose be­
hind the Vera Cruz expedition was
much the same as that in the Presi-.
dent's mind later when he ordered
General Pershing into northern Mex­
ico- to break up the Villista faction.
In both cases, the President felt him­
self eminently justified in utilizing
the power of the United States in
crushing the faction of Mexicans who
were engaged in the commission of
intolerable wrongs against the United
States.
To Break Huerta Power.
"The American forces were not
sent into Vera Cruz to compel a salute
to the American flag. It was to break
the power of the dictator, Huerta,
and to bring his bloody reign to an
end, since in no other way could nor­
mal international relations be re­
stored.
"Later, Villa adopted Huerta's pol­
icy of attempting to provide Amer­
ican intervention. He hoped by arous­
ing their national pride to rally to his
standard many of Carranza's soldiers
apd to present himself to the ignorant
Mexican people in the guise of their
would-be savior from a foreign in­
vader. On Jan. 12, 1916, he caused
the murder of 17 American citizens
near Piedras Negras, Mex. March 9,
he personally led a raiding: band
across the border and attacked the
town of Columbus, New Mexico. The
Continued on Pace 3.
of the sister nations of the two con­
tinents has fortunately been recog­
nized and acted upon, and it is now
our plain duty to do our part in this
joint endeavor.
Co-operation of American.
There can be no true American
ideals in social welfare without the
contributions and co-operation of all
the American peoples—and the hold­
ing of the First American Congress
on Child Welfare at Buenos Aires last
month was the first tep toward the
national interchange of ideas which,
if properly encouranged and sup­
ported, will result ultimately in the
formulation of America's interna­
tional Ideals of childhood and its
rights. It is above all for this rea­
son that the social workers of the
Argentine deserves the gratitude of
the three Americas for their concep­
tion of the western, hemisphere as a
unit for child welfare and for their
courage, ingenuity and persistence in
founding the congress and fashion­
ing it into a suitable intrument. to
tffln the end desired. For the most
impressive thing about this first con­
gress was the community of thought
and purpose among all the American
peopI~es wherever and however the
interests of children are concerned.
The second congress is to be held
in Montevideo, the beautiful capital
of Uruguay, earlyln *918. Already
a. committee tlu£. eount^ is*-jit
working class movement to
toft effective must be conducted
Vorkers themselves in the in*
of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in*
tellectuals or butters-taw—Gompers.
Is
TWO CENTS.
President Gompers Answer*
Query Pat to Him by South­
ern Labor Leader.
WILSON WAS FRIENDLY
WHILE HUGHES OPPOSED
President's Wonderful Achieve*
emnts for American Working.
men Approved.
Down in Alabama workingmen hav*
organized a non-partisan league foi
the purpose of promoting their politi­
cal welfare and ascertaining the labor
records of candidates for office H.'
O. McCIurg of Birmingham, secretary
of the league, under instructions from
his associates transmitted a letter to
the American Federation of Labor in-
to the ,abor
records of the
twoleadingcandidates for President1
of the United States. The answer wag
framed by Mr Gompers and signed by
his associates, Frank Marrison and
James O Connell. It reads as follows:
Your letters addressed to Mr
Frank Morrison, secretary of the Am­
erican Federation of Labor, have been
turned over to us for reply.v in
yo
ur
favor of July 17 you ask
'Will you kindly give us the labor
record of the candidates who are of­
fering for the Presidency of the
United States. Our committee inves­
tigates the record of all men who of­
fer for public office in which labor is
interested. These records are all com­
piled and then given to the member­
ship of organized labor without com
ment whatever, allowing the members
to select according to the record that
the various candidates have made
themselves."
"Replying to the above query and
statement, we feel it is due you and
the members of your organization to
say that in our opinion you have taken
the correct attitude and if you main­
tain your service on a rigid non-parti­
san basis, such as you describe, you
will find that the influence of your or­
ganization will always prove helpful
to the best interests of all the people.
"The legislative record of the Hon-:
orable Wood row Wilson, Democratic
nominee for President in regard to
Tabor measures that have come before'
him for action during his incumbency
in the office of President, since March.
4, 1913, is as follows:
President Wilson'? Record.
"One of the first acts of the Presi-]
dent—on March 4, 1913—was to ap-J
point a member in good standing of!
the trade union movement, Honorable!
William B. Wilson, a member and for-1
mer secretary of the United Mine
Workers of America, secretary of the
department of labor, thereby making
him a member of the President's cab
inet. This is the first instance in the*
history of thQ United States where thej
President of the United States selected
a bona fide good standing member of
the organized labor movement to be­
come a member of "his cabinet.
"At the request of the executive
council of the American Federation of
Labor President Wilson appointed, on
Sept. 10, 1913, representatives of the
American Federation of Labor and
the Railroad Brotherhoods as mem­
bers of the Industrial Relations com­
mission, Mr. James O'Connell, vice
presid^pt of the American Federation
of Labor Mr. John B. Lennon, treas­
urer of the American Federation of
Labor, and Mr. Austi B. Garretson,
grand chief conductor of the Order of
Railroad Conductors.
"On Oct 15, 1914—President Wil­
son approved the law which takes the
organizations of labor and farmers*
organizations from the purview of the
anti-trust ait limits the use and pre­
vents the abuse of.the writ of injunc­
tion in labor disputes defines and re­
stricts punishment for alleged con-'
Caatlaaed on Pace S.
CHILDREN
work preparing to make it even more
successful than the first, and author­
ization has been granted in the
United States to awaken more inter­
est here in this really significant
movement.
A single example of social effort in
South America will serve to illus^
trate our common needs and
and the desirability of closer relations
with these, our friends and neighbors:
Chile has for many years suffered
from excessive infant mortality
amounting to from 35 to 40 per cent
of the babies under one year of age*'
A private society in Santiago, the
capital, has for the past four years
been arousing public, sentiment over
the situation, and establishing sta-1
tions for the distribution of pureif
milk* the periodical examination of'
babies, and the furnishing of profes-)
sional services and instruction tic
mothers regarding the proper care
of their infants. Last year the so--'
ciety reached 4,500 babies in the city
and although, they belonged to poor
families, poorly housed and poorly
fed, the mortality among those under'
one year of age was reduced from
the high rate of former years toT
only 7 per cent.
Surely the inspiration of such server
ice should be the common property
of the American peoples andi it is th(,
object of the Child Welfare- congress
to make it so.
4-
••fit
