WEATHER.
Fair tonight and tomorrow; cooler to
night: moderate north and northwest
winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest, 93, at 2:20 p.m.
yesterday; lowest, 66, at 6 a.m. today.
Full report on page 9.
W
'From Press to Home
Within the Hoar"
Imn Jfet ClmlatlM. Maatk ?( iifut
llli. Daily ArfW??, rilWi Inlir, 55.713.
No. 29,436.
WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916-EIGHTEEN PAGES.
ONE CENT.
INTANGIBLE TAX
LEVYISDELAYED
District Officials Not to En
force Law Until Beginning
of Next Fiscal Year.
CORPORATION COUNSEL
HANDS DOWN DECISION
Interprets Intent of Congress De
claring Two Tax Periods in D. C.
Evidently Were Not Intended.
District officials will not en
deavor to enforce the new in
tangible tax law until the begin
ning of the next fiscal year, July I.
Under a decision handed down today
by Corporation Counsel Conrad H.
Syme, the law, which was passed as a
rider to the District appropriation act,
is held not to become operative until
that date.
Mr. Syme was asked by the Commis
sioners whether, in his opinion, the law
applies to the current fiscal year 1917,
Or any portion thereof. His reply is as
follows:
"Cnder the personal tax law of July
1. 1002, the tax year commences on July
1. thus corresponding- with the fiscal
year of both the Fnited States govern
ment and the District of Columbia, len
der this law, the schedules of tangible
personal property are printed, adver
tised and available on July 1, and re
turnable August 1, and if a return is
not made, a penalty of 20 per centum is
provided.
No Provision Made.
"The District of Columbia appropria
tion act for this year, containing the
amendment imposing a tax upon cer
tain intangible property, did not become
a law until September 1. Two months
of the current tax year had then
elapsed; the time had expired within
which returns of the Schedules of per
sonal property should be made, an_d the
penalty for failure to make return had
already attached. This was known to
Congress at the time of the enactment
of the amendment, and as no provision
was made for separate schedules of in
tangible property for the current year,
or for separate penalties, and no provi
sion was made for pro-rating the tax
for the unexpired portion of the tax
year, it would be unreasonable to con
clude that Congress intended the
amendment to apply to the current
year.
Would Occasion Two Tax Years.
"The taxation of intangibles provided by
the amendment is an annual tax, and
if the amendment was held to apply to
the current year It would occasion two
tax years in the District of Columbia,
one for tangible, personal property be
ginning July 1, and one for Intangible
property beginning September 1. It is
to be supposed that Congress did not in
tend any such inconvenient and confus
ing result by reason of this amendment.
"I am of opinion it was the Intention
of Congress that the amendment was
intended to apply to the tax year begin
ning July 1, 1917, and not to the cur
rent tax year." J
RUSS GENERAL ESCAPES
GERMAN PRISON CAMP
PETROGRAD, September 9.?Gen.
Komiloff, formerly commander of the
48th Russian division, who was captured
by the Austro-Germans in Galicia in May,
1915. escaped from the prison camp in
which he -was held in Austria and has
arrived at Bucharest, It Is announced by
the semi-official news agency. The Rus
sian general reached the capital of Ru
mania after a month of adventures in his
trip across Hungary, walking by night
and hiding by day. Frequently he had to
go without food for days.
In one forest he was halted by Hun
garian gendarmes, who killed one of his
companions, also an escaped prisoner.
Gen. Komiloff succeeded in escaping and
after hiding for a time continued his
Journey to the Rumanian frontier. At
the time of his capture he was reported
to have been seriously wounded.
Hoo Hoos Are in Session.
MEMPHIS, Tenn.. September 9.?The
Concatenated Order of Hoo Hoos, a na
toinal lumberman's fraternity, assembled
fn twenty-fifth annual convention here to
day. The sessions will continue through
"Wednesday. Delegates are present from
all sections of the United States. In ad
dition to the business sessions, many so
cial affairs have been arranged for the
lumbermen and visitors.
Col. N. B. Thurston Is Still Alive.
BROWNSVILLE, Tex.f September 9.?
Col. N. B Thurston of the 74th New York
Regiment, who war, last night reported
dead at Pharr, Tex., is still alive, accord
ing tr reliable Information r^e'ved here
today. The information said that Col.
Thurston was ill. but d^d not indicate j
whether his condition was serious.
Revolt in Moscow Reported.
BERLIN. September 9.?Press dis
patches from Stockholm to the Over
sea* News Agency report that a revolt
occurred recently at Moscow, resulting in
th?* killing or wounding of many persons.
According to this account wounded Rus
sia ?? soldiers in a hospital train were left j
with',ut care, with the result that a crowd .
as: - ? bled and protested. Soldiers re-j
fus* (l t-> fire on the crowd, whereupon *
poir'? were sent against the soldiers, aj
sanguinary encounter resulting. \
British Steamship Is Sunk.
LONDON. September 9.?The British j
steamship Heathdene of 3,.">41 tons gross, |
has been sunk according to an announce- i
mer:t ma.de at Lloyds. The Heathdene i
w.ts 340 feet long, with a beam of forty
five feet. She was owned by the Dene
steamship company of Newcastle. !
Skipper Escapes Death Penalty.
AMSTERDAM, September 9.?The
Haagsche Courant prints an interview
with Skipper Taal of the trawler Ger
truida Which was sunk by a German
submarine. The skipper was taken on
board the submarine and carried to
% Germany, where, the interview says,,
I he wal condemned to death by a court- i
martial on the charge of hav.ing a gun !
aboard his vessel and of having at-!
tempted to ram the submarine. On an
appeal, the skipper was pronounced not
IT
LI
Commissioners Also Consider
Barrina Them From Making
Bread or Barbering.
Absolute prohibition against attend
ance at public or private schools of
any person suffering from tuberculosis
in communicable form is established
in an amendment to the District's
tuberculosis regulations, adopted to
day by the Commissioners.
The regulation is drawn to apply I
alike to teacher, pupil, janitor or help
er, and is to be effective on and after |
October 1.
In considering this question the Com
missioners also have given thought to j
the advisability of adopting amend- j
ments to the regulations which would j
prevent persons suffering from tuber- j
j culosis from engaging in the occupa
' tions of breadmaking and barbering.
These suggestions still are under con
sideration.
Subject of Hearing.
All three measures designed to check ]
i the spread of tuberculosis in the Dis
| trict were discussed at a public-hearing |
| given by the Commissioners several ]
I months ago.
In explaining the amendment adopted j
today Commissioner Brownlow said i
that the Commissioners had reached the j
| conclusion that it was wrong to per
| mit pupils suffering from tuberculosis j
in communicable form to attend either |
| private or public schools.
| He expressed the hope that provision
will bo made in the immediate future
! for special school facilities for tuber
! culous children, who not only will be
'given every opportunity to obtain an
education, but will have the peculiar
lare to enable them to conquer the
disease.
Health Officer's Attitude.
In recommending adoption of the or
der Health Officer Woodward stated
that It is a commonly recognized fact
that tuberculosis is a communicable
disease, and that the nature of the
channels through which this disease
spreads from person to person is such
that the danger of contagion is greater
indoors than out. Under such circum
stances, it would appear necessary to
eliminate from the schools all known
foci of infection.
It is expected that the Commissioners'
action will lead to recommendations by I
the board of education in the forthcom- j
ing estimates for the establishment of ]
special schools for tuberculous chil
dren.
ATLANTIC CITY THRONG
CHEERS THE PRESIDENT!
Woman Suffragists in Crowd Which
Witnesses His Departure for
Shadow Lawn.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., September 9 ? |
President Wilson, who spoke here be
fore the National Woman Suffrage As
sociation, left here at 9 o'clock this |
morning by motor for Long Branch, N.
J., to make an extended stay at Shadow |
Lawn, his summer home.
A large crowd on the Boardwalk and I
nearby streets cheered the President as
he entered his automobile, and during 1
his progress through Atlantic City. In
the crowd were many of the delegates |
to the suffrage convention.
It was expected that the President !
and Mrs. Wilson would reach Long j
Branch before 1 o'clock this afternoon.
The ride from Atlantic City took the
party along a beautiful stretch of road
on the ocean front. Shadow Lawn was
ready for their occupancy, and word
received here was that the population
of Asbury Park, Long Branch and West f
End were prepared to welcome them. |
The weather here was clear.
FRANCE TO MAKE LOAN;
EXPENSES ARE REVEALED
PARTS, September 9.?Alexandre F.
Ribot, the French minister of finance,
announced today that the appropria
tions committee of the chamber of
deputies will introduce a law next
Tuesday authorizing a new national
loan. ?
M. Ribot, explaining to the appropri
ations committee of the chamber the
requirements for the last quarter of
1916, amounting to 8,347,000,000 francs,
said the totals for the different periods
of the war were:
Five months of 1914, 7,000,000,000
francs; 1915, 22,000,000,000 francs; 1916,
32,000,000,000 francs. The finance min
ister said there was considerable dif
ference between the sums appropriated
and payments made because of delays
in the deliverance of orders.
The finance minister informed the
committee confidentially in regard to
the payments which France must make
abroad and upon arrangements made
with the British treasury and the Bank
of England to maintain sterling ex
change.
HEART EXPOSED BY W0UJTD.
Three Hundred Stitches Required in
Cut Made by Buzz Saw.
MEMPHIS, Tenn., .September 9.?Paul
Koonodle, aged sixteen. na? a chance
for recovery, according to physicians,
after 300 ?titches were used to close a
! wound in his left side caused by falling
across a buzz saw at Langdon, Ark. The
boy arrived at a local hospital Thurs
day night, twenty-six hours after the
; accident happened.
The saw had cut a gash ten inches
i long just under the left arm, severed
six ribs, struck the lung and exposed
the beating heart. First-aid treatment
given by employes at the sawmill,
when they stuffed the wound with
gauze and bandaged him to the best of
their ability is said by the physicians
to be largely responsible for the boy's
prospects for living.
In deference to the wishes
of many of its reader#. The
Star will not print advertise
ments of intoxicating bev
erages hereafter.
-v
Other Trades Regard Cause of
Unionism Involved in
Labor Controversy.
CENTRAL FEDERATED UNION
MAY CALL OUT WORKERS
Resolution Asks Samuel Gompers to
Take Charge of New York
Strike Situation.
NEW YOriK, September 9.?Both
Rides in the street railway strike ex
pected a crisis, today. when the traction
company tried to re-establish normal
service on its surface lines through
the use of strikebreakers.
The strikers have been notified that,
by renouncing allegiance to the union
they may get their jobs back, up to
1 o'clock this afternoon. After that
the company reserves the right to use
strikebreakers to fill the places of
employes whose desertion has reduced
the number of "Green line" surface
cars in operation by about 80 per cent
The New York Railways Company,
which operates the surface lines crip
pled by the strike, again withdrew all
its cars last night. When the cars
were sent out again, this morning, the
company announced that, hereafter, a
regular twenty-four hour service would
be maintained.
Cause of Unionism.
The striking carmen were encouraged
today by the promise of moral and
financial support from the Central Fed
erated Union, representing 500,000 trade
unionists in New York city. It is an
nounced that plans, still Indefinite, have
been made to call strikes in other
branches of labor to support the trac
tion men, on the ground that their fight
,"v, ,VkS the J"3'11 Pril"=lple of organ
zed labor. and their defeat would mean
h* beginning of a move to break down
labor unionism throughout the country
contrfct medium of the individual
?e,e.U"* Ia?t night the Centra!
Union adopted a resolution
requesting Samuel Gompers. president
of the American Federation of ;,abor
situation_ and ,ak" charge of the
Not to Handle Railroad Coal.
John P. Riley, president of the dis
trict council of the International Long
shoremen's Association, said today he
had instructed the 1,800 members of
the Tidewater Boatmen's Union not to
handle barges laden with coal for the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company's
power houses. p "
?r,der' Riley cIa'med. also af
coal passers employed by the In
terborough, and will cripple. If not en
iSt?iP tfle Interborough system
which Includes the subways and elevat
ed roads of Manhattan and the Bronx
to J38,1 niKht threatened
the ThirH A kr," ,0 ,h" lin*? Of
Third Avenue Railroad Company
Aven"" Company and the'
I.nion Railways Company, unless the
heads of these lines pledge themselves
Individual contracts
fi^ the ^Ten' 8lmllar to those bind
ing the workers not to a.-k for wage
Increases for two years, which brought
on the Interborough strike and the
TheThYrrtC Yo'k '?""ways strike
L.i I Avenue line, it was said
fiatl> refused the demands. ' j
President Wilson Criticised.
James L. Quackenbush. general coun
sel for the Interborough, declared at
an Investigation held by the public
service commission, that "some legisla
tion must be enacted, even to amend
ing the United States Constitution, if J
necessary, toward resuming a govern- I
ment of laws and not of men.
"It was no part of the business of!
President Roosevelt to interfere in the ]
anthracite strike situation," he added.!
?Without intending to criticise or en- I
gage in political discussion, it is my
opinion that it was no part of the
President's business nor of the duties
r?ailrhoad0s^uati?one''BaBe the reCent !
9uacken*'Uflb told the commission J
Virtila? , ? g to in1?ire into indi
vidual contracts, and that the question
of wages alone was arbitrable.
No Pickets on Cars.
A committee of strikers complained to
the police that hired gangsters were
attacking their pickets. Their request
that pickets be permitted to ride on
the cars was denied.
n,^hy?L Mltchel l? a statement fost
night, declared that pending the in/uirv
>nt? the strike, he was "determined that
order shall be maintained in the city
the safety of the traveling public in-'
property " f""01*01'0" Klven to life and
"The full police power of the citv
heV?;irdment WU1 bfi UHed t0 thut end''
Service Reported Normal by Police.
Police reports indicated that under
ground and elevated service was nor
mal today and that the situation on
the surface lines affected had consider
ably improved. Union leaders, on the
other hand, claimed that the surface
roads were badly affected.
Disorders of a minor character con
tinued throughout the day, and there
were eighteen arrests. Policemen
guarded all roads, examining bags and
packages carried by passen.-ers, owing
to persistent reports of plots to dyna
mite transit property.
SUFFERING IN MEXICO.
People Left Destitute Through
Drought and Military Confiscation.
DOUGLAS, Ariz., September 9.?Chil
dren are suffering In the southern part of
Sahuaripa district of Sonora, 300 miles
south of the border, according to an
American mining man who arrived here
from a trip Into the southern part of the
Mexican state. The people are abandon
ing farm and ranches because after two
years of drought, coupled with military
confiscation early In the year, they have
been stripped of food and livestock and
are congregating along the line of the
Southern Pacific railroad of Mexico he
obtained*1*1"6 '??d Ca" be more easily
A good corn crop is anticipated, but It
will not mature sufficiently for use before
the end of another month.
WRECKING OF MEMPHIS
A MARINE PHENOMENON
Giant Waves Churned Up Out of a
Calm Sea Without Any
Wind.
NEW YORK. September 9.?Vivid
descriptions of the marine phenomenon
Vhich caused the destruction of the
United States armored cruiser Mem
phis, with the loss of about forty of
her crew, in the harbor of Santo Do
mingo, August 29, were given today
by witnesses of the disaster who had
arrived on the steamer Iroquois. The
conjecture that the disaster was the
result of an undersea eruption was
strengthened by assertions that noth
ing resembling a gale accompanied the
sudden disturbance.
The theory that the big seas which
tossed the 15,000-ton warship on the
rocks was caused by an undersea
shock transmitted from a disturbance
on the preceding* day at Dominica,
British West Indies, was advanced by
Capt. Theodore De Booy of the Ameri
can Indian Heye Foundation, an eye
witness of the catastrophe.
Strange Even to Natives.
This theory, said Capt. De Booy, is
borne out by the fact that Dominica
lies east-southeast of Santo Domingo
and the seas threw the Memphis in
a west-northwesterly direction ashore.
"The strange phenomenon," he said,
"was absolutely nev to the experience
of all who beheld it, including 'the na
tives of the island, accustomed as they
are to outbursts of tropical storms. It
had beer, blowing a hurricane from
the southeast for two days, but on the
morning of August 29 the sea was calm
and there was no wind. Then the sea
became suddenly turbulent. The road
stead became an angry mass of foam
ing waves in which no small craft
could live.
"As the fury of the marine disturb
ance increased the Memphis was seen
to be dragging her anchor and grad
ually being driven ashore.
Lifted on Crest of Wave. .
"Finally a wave that seemed larger
than any that had preceded it lifted
up the warship, held her on Its sum
mit, for a moment artd then dashed her
down on a submerged reef within 200
yards of dry land. From the after
ventilators of the cruiser was pouring
a cloud of steam, immense waves were
still breaking over her, some of them
as high as the tops of her funnels, and
the Memphis was shoved ashore until
she was only fifty yards away. An im
provised breeches buoy was put in
operation and the men on the wrecked
ship were brought ashore, some of them
terribly burned from explosion of her
boilers."
Cruiser's Boilers Bursted.
Details of the recent wreck of the
armored cruiser Memphis in Santo Do
mingo harbor, received at the Navy De
partment from Rear Admiral Pond,
show that two of the cruiser's boilers
burst befor^ she'was thrown upon the
rocks by the tidal wave.
Earlier reports had indicated that
breaking of a steam pipe crippled the
ship and caused the large number of in
juries among members of her crew.
Of the forty who lost their lives in
the wreck, twenty-six were on board a
launch swamped while returning from
shore with the ship's* base ball team.
Five other men were drowned in a
launch lowered after the explosion.
Lutheran Educators in Session.
GREENVILLE, Pa., September 9 ?The
board of education of the General
Council of the Lutheran Church, repre
senting thirteen synodical bodies, is
now in session at Thiel College here,
These officers have been elected: Presi
dent, Rev. A. W. Haas, president Muh
lenberg College, Alientown, Pa.; vice
president. Rev. F. A. Kaehler, Buffalo,
N. Y.; recording secretary, Rev. H. D.
Spasth.Williamsport, Pa.; correspond
ing secretary. Rev. Ernst H. Pfatteich
er, Philadelphia, and treasurer, Rev. F.
Jacobeon, Brooklyn, N. Y.
SERBIANS GAINING
AT LAKE OSTROVO
Capture Macedonian Height
From Enemy After Violent
Engagement, Is Report.
BULGARS REPORTED
TO BE EXHAUSTED
Offensive Efforts Brought to Halt
and Forces Are Digging
Themselves In.
PARIS, September 9.?The Serbians
on the Macedonian front took the of
fensive last night in the region of Lake
Ostrovo. The war office announced to
day that after a violent engagement
they captured a height west of the
lake.
A Serbian communique points out that
after the sacrifice of nearly 15,000 men
the Bulgarians are too exhausted to
make the least offensive movement, and
are digging themselves in. The Bul
garians are said to admit they found
their Verdun at Ostrovo.
A dispatch from Saloniki says:
"Documents found on Bulgarian offi
cers, both the slain and those made
prisoner, prove the overwhelming im
portance which the Bulgarian command
attached to the offensive in Macedonia,
and especially to the recent defeat of
the Serbians occupying the line on the
western shore of Lake Ostrovo.
Another Retirement
of Austrians Before
Rumanians Admitted
LONDON, September 9.?Austrian
troops have been withdrawn from their
positions west of Cssik Szereda, fifty
miles north of Kronstadt, before
Rumanian attacks, say the latest offi
cial communication issued from Austro
Hungarian headquarters.
Russian torpedo boats. Petrograd de
clared, bombarded the Rumanian port
of Baltjik on the Black sea. and sank
twenty-one barges in which the Bul
garians. who had occupied the seaport,
were shipping bread.
Pall of Turtukai Admitted.
The capture of the fortress of Tur
tukai, on the Danube, by German and
Bulgarian troops, is admitted in an
official communication issued by the
Rumanian war office.
Rumanian authorities in London say
the result of the fighting in the Ru
manian province of Dobrudja is being
greatly exaggerated and that what has
happened was more or less expected.
They say there were not as many Ru
manian troops in the district as the
Germans claim to have captured. The
Danube town of Turtukai was not a
strongly fortified place, they declare,
but was simply defended with earth
works.
German View of Campaign.
BERLIN, September 9, by wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.?Correspondents with
the Bulgarian and German forces which
are invading Rumania report that along,
the Black sea coast an advance of
eighty kilometers, about fifty miles,
beyond the frontier already has been
made. They express the opinion that
the progr'ess of the invaders, who have
occupied several important positions on
the coast and elsewhere in Dobrudja,
explains the irresolution and compara
tive inactivity of the Rumanian forces,
which, having invaded Transylvania,
are now merely sending out small de
tachments to reconnoiter.
Not only Rumanians but Russians
have been defeated by the Bulgarians
in Dobrudja, the correspondents say,
and this destroy* the legend that Bul
garians will not fight Russians.
.,
FINAL HALF HOLIDAY
BY EXECUTIVE ORDER
1916 Season of Saturday Closing in
Government Departments
Ends With Today.
The army of government employes in
this city were excused at 1 o'clock to
day for the last time this calendar
year, under the President's order au
thorizing half holidays on Saturdays
from June 15 to September 15. Unfor
tunately for the employes the holiday
season expires by limitation next Fri
day, Just one day too soon for another
Saturday.
Under the law, however, Saturday aft
er 12 o'clock #s a legal holiday in the
District all the year round, and efforts
will be renewed by departmental em
ployes to be given the full benefit of
that fact instead of having their half
Saturday half holiday limited to three
months of the summer.
Half-holidays at the bureau of engrav
ing and printing will extend through
September 30. the last Saturday in the
month, as the holidays at this bureau
did not begin until a half month later
in the spring than they did at other de
partments.
For this reason the half-periods on
Saturdays are annually extended in tie
bureau of engraving and printing un;ii
the last Saturday in September.
WANT ALL SATURDAYS SHORT.
Federal Employes' Union Asks for
All-Year Half Holiday.
A resolution asking the President to
continue the Saturday half holiday in
the government departments through
out the year was adopted at a meeting
of the board of representatives of the
Federal Employes' Union, representing
sixteen government departments *nd
bureaus, last night.
The petition will be presented to the
President Monday, it is planned.
At the meeing H. M. McLaren, presi
dent of the union, was selected as a
delegate to the annual convention of
the American ? Federation of Labor, In
Baltimore, in November.
ORATORS BEGIN TOUR.
Prohibition Speakers Will Go to the
Pacific Coast and Back.
CHICAGO, September 9.?Prohibition
orators, after a preliminary journey to
Illinois towns and Davenport, Iowa, yes
terday, today found themselves fairly
launched on a tour that is to take them
to the Pacific coast and back to the At
lantic seaboard states within the next
sixty days.
The party, which includes former Gov.
Frank Hanly of Indiana* prohibition
candidate for President, and Ira Land
rith, the vice presidential nominee, ar
rived from Davenport early this morn
ing, and after a brief meeting in Chicago
departed on its way to the west vl*
Wisconsin.
Over 2i Miles
of Advertising
This little three-inch an
nouncement if clipped from one
day's circulation of The Star,
would require a bulletin board
extending down Pennsylvania
avenue from the White House
to the Capitol on both sides of
the street to hold the clippings.
The Star instead of placing
advertising of the Washington
merchants on a bulletin board
of over 2l/2 miles in, length uses
the library tables of 75,000
homes in Washington and near
by suburbs.
(Viffure it yourself.)
Invades Hostile Territory and
Catches the Crowd With
Punch in Speeches.
APPROVAL GIVEN criticism
OF LEGISLATION BY FORCE
Bepublicans, After Strong Cam
paign, Grow Confident?Democrats
Concentrate on Senatonhip.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
PORTLAND, Me., September
q.?Contrasting the Hughes of
Portland, Ore., with the Hughes
of Portland, Me., The Star's cor
respondent, who saw him in both
cities, can report upon the differ
ence in form. The Hughes of the
shores of Casco Bay is quite an
other man from the Hughes of
the banks of the Columbia.
In Maine Mr. Hughes seems to have
struck his stride In campaigning with
a surer gait and swifter. Whether
was the inspiration of his new issue,
the eight-hour wage law. or whatnot,
he has evinced more spirit and vigor
?what the politicians call "punch"
and "got a rise" out of hi. audiences
more effectively than In some of Ms
western one-night stands.
Criticism Wins Approval.
From the time he entered the state at
York. Portland, Lewiston, Waterville
and Bangor, he has caught the crowds
in every meeting. His new topic made
a hit from the first. Approval of his
criticism of the coerced wage scale has
been vociferous and enthusiastic.
For one thing, the people were ready
for it The action of Congress l?ad
been the principal subject of.conju
gation on every side, and In many
quarters severely condamned. tj.e
In Portland, Thursday nighty the
auSience grabbed at his first words and
applauded for two minutes before he
coul.l proceed. They expressed ap
proval at intervals as he went ?n to
deprecate the action, to declare his ab
horrence of it, and to set up as tne
"American doctrine" resistance to Pres
sure of force on legislation and oppo
sition to "legislation first and lnveetl
Si^?LewUtin>?rin the face of local con
ditions which might be termed dls
cDuraping, he went at it again Just as
vigorously and was as enthusiastically
applauded. Lewiston is a strong dem
ocratic town, the home of Representa
tive McGilW?uddy, and thoroughly un
der domination of the local democratic
organization. It has a large labor pop
ulation. workers in the textile mills.
Silence Given Hughes.
Mr. Hughes was escorted to the hall
by a long procession of motor cars full
of republican sympathizers. They
passed along the main street lined with
silent throngs.
For block after block the party Pro
ceeded without a handclap, a ripple of
applause or a single cheer. There was
something almost ominous in the si
lence of the crowd. Nothing was heard
but the shuffling of feet as the people
pressed to the sidewalks to get a bet
teThe6hall was packed, however, with re
publicans and progressl ves. T
up at the outset and gave him a most cor
dial welcome, cheering his eight-hour
wage law remarks time and again, as well
as his attacks on democratic free trade
Fair-minded opinion in Lewiston, w hich
I sounded in both parties, was that Mc
Gillicuddy, the democratic incumbent. Is
likely to be re-elected, but that his plural
ity of two years ago will be heavily cut.
Three weeks ago the republicans did not
consider that they even had alook-lnin
this district. Col. Roosevelt s speech,
however, was effective with the progres
sives and heartened the republicans to
renewed effort.
Saloon Issue Undercurrent.
The deomcrats in this district are mak
ing effectual capital of a report that the
republican candidate for governor, if
elected, will "put the lid on" illegal saloon
business, even to the extent of overriding
the sheriff with militia, if necessary. It
is stated that there are 200 saloons in
Lewiston, although this is a prohibition
state. The republican candidate has not
seen fit to deny the report of his alleged
intentions and the **unwets" are urging
It for all It is worth.
One of the curiosities of the admin
lstrtion of the law is found in Bangor,
where there has been a street car
strike, and the chief of police. In the
Interest of order, closed the saloons.
The mayor Is against closing, and the
two officials have been at loggerheads,
although the law of the state Is prohi
bition. .
While the liquor question has not
been injected Into the campaign openly,
it falls out that the "drys" generally
are lined up with the republicans and
the "wets" with the democrats on the
state ticket. The German vote Is di
viding to an extent in the same way.
Concentrated on Senatorship.
In the closing hours of the campaign
It is quite evident that the democrats
are weakening In their fight for the
state ticket, in the face of the strong
republican campaign, and are concen
trating on the candidacy of Senator
Johnson for re-election to the United
StfttPis understood here that the demo-,
cratic administration and national man
agement are more concerned over the
election of Johnson than In
the state ticket. It is explained that
Senator Johnson stands for President
Wilson and the national democratic
administration and policies. If he can
be re-elected, the democrats say. they
will claim to the nation that Maine has
'"of rcourse.''the reverse of that shield
Is that if the state ticket should win
such a large plurality as to pull
Fred Hale, the republican candidate
for senator, through with it, the re
publicans will assert that the adminis
tration has been repudiated. Friday
found the republicans more confident
than before as to the state ticket, three
th(, fOUr representatives and the
other senatprshlp. Hale's senatorial
orosoects ark admitted to be open to
doubt, dependent upon the size of the
expected state plurality.
Republican Confidence Grows.
The republican Increase In confidence
was based upon the reports from the
?ta.te at large, following the excep
- t (Continued on Secon^ Pace.)
Izar's Men Hurl Enemy Bat
tery Into Ravine South of
Baranoff in Carpathians. ?
STUBBORN BATTLE ON
ALONG RIVER NARAIUVKA
Slavs Opposed by Germans and
Turks in the Direction
of Halicz.
BERLIN, tcptembrr ?, via Lontn.
?Force* of tte central powers to
the Carpathian mountains northwest
of Kapal, aaya today's official report
laaned by the German acneral staC,
yielded yesterday before the pres
sure exerted by the Russians.
LONDON, September 9.?In the Car
path Jans, south of Baranoff, the Rus
sians have stormed a series of heights.
They took 600 prisoners, the latest Pet
rogrrad announcement says, and cap
tured a mountain battery of several
cannon which had been thrown Into
the ravines.
German and Turkish troops are en
gaged In stubborn fighting with Rus
sian forces In Gallcia on the River
Naraiuvka, in the direction of Hallcs,
according to the Russian statement.
A counter attack made by the Turks
and Teutons, the statement adds, was
repulsed by the Russians.
Renewal of violent Russian attacks
in the Carpathians Is reported also in
the official Austrian statement of Sep
tember 6. It Is said that except for
some-- small advantages the determined
efforts of the Russians to advance
were thwarted. E&st of ZlochofT. in
Gallcia. forty mi'es east of Lemberg,
the Russians attacked after heavy ar
tillery preparatfon. They were re
pulsed by the AuHtrian artillery fire.
Vienna declares.
Regarded General Attack.
The present operations In Galicta
are regarded by military critics In
Petrograd as a "Russian general at
tack." says a Reuter dispatch from
the Russian capital. The mllttary
critics comment on the difficulty facing
the central powers In being
fight on two fronts, namely.
Gen. Sakharoff on the east and Gon*.
Scherbatchoff and Letchitxky on the
SORegardlng the heavy fighting In the
region of Halle*, southeast of Lemberg.
where the Germans, Austrian* and
Turks are all fighting stubbornly, the
critics say the Russians have overcome
tremendous resistance and now are
menacing the only railway In the line
of retreat for the Halicz garrison. This
line parallels the Dniester for? MB}
distance and runs through Ghodoroff
to Lemberg.
Russian Official Report.
The Russian statement follows:
"Germano-Turkish counter attacks
on the River Naraiuvka. In the direc
tion of Halicz. were repelled by our
fire. In this area stubborn fighting
continues.
?In the wooded Carpathians, south
of Baranoff, our troops carried anseries
of heights, taking more than 500 pris
oners and capturing five machine guns
and a mountain battery of several
cannon, which had been thrown into
the ravines.
Activity in Gulf of Blga.
BERLIN, September 9.?The follow
ing statement was Issued today by the
admiralty:
?'September 6 our naval aeroplanes
dropped bombs on hostile naval forces
off Arensburg, on Oesel Island (In the
Gulf of Riga). Near Zevel a hostile
aeroplane was forced down.
"The night of September ? one of our
naval aeroplanes dropped a large num
ber of bombs with good results on the
Russian aeroplane station at Runeo, on
the Gulf of Riga.
"September 7 a Russian gunboat bom
barded the north Courland without suc
cess. It was pursued and bombed by
naval aeroplanes.
"The same day the Dutch steamer
Niobe with contraband was brought in
by our naval forces in the North sea.
REVOLT IN SOUTH AFRICA
AGAINST BRITISH NIPPED
CAPE TOWN, via London, September
9. Details of an attempt to foment an
other rebellion against the British to
South Africa were disclosed at tho trial
at Bloomfonteln of two nationals. Van
Der Merwe and Schonkln. on a chars*
of high treason. The men are alleged
to have approached a number of promi
nent Boers. Including Gen. Do W*^ to
whom they told that largo stores ot ri
fles were available and that certain
Boer generals were willing to lead *
revolt.
Gen. De Wet, who Informed the gov
ernment of the movement, testified that
he warned the men against attempting
another uprising. The hearing was ad
^?Gen.e<De Wet, commander-in-chief
the Orange Free State forces In Om
Boer srar, headed a rebellion against
the British early In the present war.
He was captured, convicted of nign
i treason and sentenced to six years* lm
! prisonment and a fine of $10,000, but
was released from prison on December
21. 1915. _j
NO TAX ON STOCK SHABES.
Stock Exchange Officials Decide
Stamps No Longer Are Necessary.
NEW YORK, September 9.?After
exchanging telegrams with Washing
ton. stock exchange authorities reached
the conclusion today that under the
war revenue bill signed by the Presi
dent yesterday sellers of stocks be
ginning today will be relieved of the
federal Btamp tax of $2 a hundred
shares.
Mark Eisner, collector of the third
Internal revenue district, announced to
day that the law requiring revenue
stamps on cosmetics and certain legal
documents was repealed by the new
revenue law and that beginning today
no more stamps will be required today
articles covered by stamp tax sched
ules A and B of the emergency war
act of October, 1811.
