pp
H5
IL41L4 ii liNJi
VOL. XXXVI. NO 40
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY,' KANSAS, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916.
SJJ2SCRIPTI0N $150 PER YEAR
1 11 lib
H H
1 liAtkii
Guard adainsf the
uncertainties of the
future. Start vour
Banh Account to-day.
A bank account is the safest shield for protection, and, once you
begin to save, you will be convinced it is the only road to comfort and
wealth.
A person should take no risks of disadvantage in the future while
he is able to make himself secure. When one is so situated as to be able
to afford risks, then he may be venturesome. '
Start a bank account with us now.
Interest paid on'savings.
HAYS, KANSAS
For Sale.
I will sell at private sale one black driv
ing mare 7 years old, one 10-hole range,
one refrigerator, one dining room table,
six dining room chairs, six kitchen
chairs, two rocking chairs, one side
beard, one baseburner, one glass door
cupboard, two kitchen cabinets, one
iron bed, spring and mattress, one sew
ing machine, one wash stand with mir
ror, and a large quantity of dishes.
Call at the Windsor Cafe, Monday and
Tuesday, September 13th and 14th.
Mrs. Christofferson.
Thursday, Ellis paid $1.33. for wheat
and Hays same day -paid $1.47 i.- Now
what's the matter with you kickers?
. Keep quiet and saw wood.
Henrietta Buelow Klotz.
Mrs. Henrietta Buelow Klotz died
Wednesday morning at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Barnes, in the north
west part of our county. She was bom
in northern Germany, August 15, 1833,
and was baptised and confirmed in the
Lutheran church. She was married to
Carl Klotz, December 23, 1860. and a
few years later they came to America.
Mr. Klotz died a number of years ago.
Of this union were born five sons and
four daughters; among the latter is
Mrs. E. R. Setz, who has recently mov
edto our city. Mrs. Klotz had reached
the ripe age of 78 years and 21 days.
The service was conducted by Rev.
Wiest in the Lutheran church, on Wed
nesday afternoon. Interment was
made in "Mount Allen cemetery.
We extend our sincere sympathy to
the bereaved family.
Of course you want a new hat: you cannot
afford NOT to have one. To succeed you
must APPEAR well. , 1 .
Stacks of new fall hats the "nobby" styles
have come in. you come In and see them.
You'll find the one to "fit your face.;
The PRICE will fit your pocketbook too. We
will sell you a swell new "lid" for $2.00 and
for $3.00 we will give you a "bird." But
remember that all $3.00 hats are not the
same quality.
H. A. NICKLES. Hays. Kansas
STABILITY - -KEYNOTE
Second Annual Golden Bslt Fair,
September 23, 27, 28, 29,
Will Be at Hays
BUILDINGS ON CONCRETE BASE
iter
Jo fSo duffle
Loan and - Insurance Co.
FARM LOANS
At Correct Rates
INSURANCE
In Best Companies
Bonded Abstractor for Ellis Co.
Will Be a White jCity of Much Beauty
When Finished
Permanency and stability are the two
keynotes of the efforts of the Golden
Belt Fair association which has its sec
ondfair at Hays, the last week in Sep
tember. " This fair will eventually lead
all fairs in Western Kansas. The vis
ion of its backers has this big aim al
ways before it. Three things will make
that possible the strategic position of
Hays itself, the use of the state insti
tutions which border on the city limits,
and the push of the citizens of Hays.
The first two are here whether there is
a fair or not. They will be here
whether the fair becomes the dominat
ing one for Western Kansas or not. The
one thing liable to keep the fair within
smaller proportions is the spirit of Hays
men and women. This year this spirit
has shown wonderful strides and the
permanency and stability of the struct
ures now being built on the fairgrounds
attests to the fact that what many
Hays people said could not be done, is
being done.
Although most of the people of Hays
do not know it, Hays can assume the
leadership of Western Kansas if it
wants to. The work of the men behind
the fair, is evidence that Hays wants to. i
The Golden Belt Fair association is
incorporated for $15,C00. In most fair
associations the bulk of the money
must go for grounds. Here the near
ness of the state institutions makes it
possible to rent the ground from the
state at a nominal sum and the money
go for permanent improvements on it.
This gives the fair the jump on any
thing else in this part of the state.
A trip to the grounds will convince
anyone that permanency, and stability
are the two main ideas determining the
character of the efforts to get ready
for the fair now a month off.
Four of the main buildings are now
practically finished. The cattle barn is
100 by 28 feet the horse barn is 34 by
100 feet. The agricultural building is
30 by 60 feet and two stories high, and
has two towers. The grandstand is
200 feet long and has twelve rows of
seats 200 feet long. It will seat 4000
persons. All of these buildings now
built or in contemplation are frame
structures set solidly on the best con
crete foundations. They are or are to
be. painted white with green stained
shingle roofs. It is expected that they
will give when all erected, the appear
ance of a white city.
The race track is a perfect half mile
built and graded according to the speci
fications laid down by the American
Trotting Association. The home stretch
in front of the grand stand, is 65 feet
wide. The turns and the grades at the
turns are according to the requirements
of the trotting association.
The officers of the Fair association
are: George Philip, Jr., president; T.
G. Gosser. vice-president; G. G. Coch
ran, treasurer; P. J. Deane, secretary;
John S. Bird, assistant secretary.
The board of directors comprises:
George Philip, Jr., P. J. Deane, Chas.
R. Weeks, C. E. Williams, E. C. Waldo,
S. E. Freshour, T. G. Gosser, C. G.
Cochran, W A. Lewis, W. D. Philip,
Fred Schwaller.
The executive committee consists cf
George Philip, Jr., Chas. R. Wedks, P-
J. Deane, Fred Schwaller, and W. D.
Philip.
The Fair will be divided into . ten de
partments as follows: Horses and Mules,
Cattle, Sheep and Swine, Poultry, Agri
culture, Horticulture, Domestic art.
Domestic science, " Fine arts and Flow
ers, and Educational.
Gus Reidel is superintendent, H. F.
Payne and John R. Staab are assistant
superintendents of Department A, that
of Horses and Mules.
Thos. Carrick is superintendent, Ro
bert Ealden and Claire Higgin3 are
assistant superintendents of Depart
ment B, that of Cattle.
Jerry Fellers is superintendent, Wm.
Bellman and M. M. Moore are assistant
superintendents of Department C, that
of Sheep and Swine. Bellman as the
sheep and Moore the sheep. s
Department D. Poultry. Superin
tendent, Charles King; Assistant Su
perintendent, Alvin Fellers; Assistant
Superintendent, Herman Feitz.
-Department E. Agriculture. Su
perintendent, Louis Kraus; Assistant
Superintendent, Jacob Roth; Assist
ant Superintendent, Anton J. Klaus.
Department F. Horticulture. "Su
perintendent, Geo. Hubbell; Assistant
Superintendent, Pierre Overtfelt; As
sistant Superintendent, A. E. Winches
ter. Department G. Domestic Art. Su
perintendent, Mrs. E. A. Rea; Assist
ant Superintendent, Mrs. Fred Schwal
ler; Assistant Superintendent, Mrs. W.
H. Jordan. -1
Department H. Domestic Science.
Superintendent, Mrs., Geo. Bellman;
Assistant Superintendent, Miss Mary
Mulroy; Assistant Superintendent,
Miss Margaret Brungardt.
Department I. Fine Arts and Flow
ers Superintendent, Mrs. H, A Nick
lei; Assistant Superintendent, Mrs. H.
B. Neiswanger; Assistant Superinten
dent, Mrs. James Carter.
Department J. Educational. Su
perintendent, Louis Christiansen: As
sistant Superintendent, Chas. W. Har
per; Assistant Superintendent, C. A.
Shively.
BUILD INTO HAYS.
Watch the Hays City Drug Stoi
windows for specials next week.
The Richard Garrett family visited at
the Peter Johnson home, south of town,
Sunday.
Alex Schueler is expecting a car load
of Buick automobiles to arrive here al
most any day.
Jacob Orth and familj' went to Gor
ham, Tuesday, in their new Chalmers
automobile on a short visit to relatives.
Watch the Hays City- Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
A. B. Stewart of the Hays City Drug
Store, is visiting friends at Ottawa,
Kansas this week. His son, Kenneth,
accompanied him.
Mrs. Myrl Friemmel and son, are
here from Dorrance, visiting Mrs.
Friemmers mother, Mrs. Richard
Garrett and family.
Jacob Orth last week, purchased the
Peter J. Willman 163 acre farm in
Pleasant Hill township, which he gave
to his son, Joseph H.
That Point a New Terminal lor Two
Railroads.
North and south railroad facilities
I lor western jvansas were practically
assured today when it became known
that the Plainville, Norton & North
Piatte Railway company, to build be
tween North Platte, Neb., and Hays,
Kan., has been organized and simul
taneously it was announced that the
Anthony & Northern railroad, now be
ing built through Edwards county, will
finish construction on a line north from
Edwards to Hays, possibly in six
months and in nine months at the
longest. The announcement that the
Anthony & Northern would be built
into Hays in that length of time came
over the long distance telephone from
the president's office in Pratt.
The Plainville, Norton & North
Platte, it is announced, has taken over
the old grade of the Plainville & North
ern railway in western Kansas. That
grade and right of way is 20 miles in
length and the new company plans to
build between the Nebraska point and
Hays, using the right of way upon
which to build a part of the line.
The Anthony and Northern already
has thirty miles of right of way voted
from Edwards county, north toward
Hays. Officials of the road said today
it was the plan of the Anthony &
Northern eventually to build from
Hays, north into Nebraska. However,
officials of the road say they expect to
take up co-struction of the proposed
. T. Morrison, the jeweler, has a i . u . :
Tne route of th"? Anthong & Northern
tomatoes.
al2tf
beautiful line. of cameo brooches
Beginning with Saturday, the Crystal
will be opened with an entirely separ
ate program from what is being played
at the Opera House. Popular prices
5 and 10 cents.
The editor of the Russell Reformer
accompanied by his brother-in-law, Ro
bert Muir and family of Salina, came
up from Russell, Sunday, to see a real
live town and its many attractions.
Frank Walz returned -from a busi
ness trip in Gove and Sheridan coun
ties. WThile in Hoxie, he bought a
cottage and three lots and presented it
to the late bride and groom, Kathryn
and Warner Johnson.
Miss Elizabeth Weisner, the popular
and efficient head saleslady of the dry
goods department in the A. A. Weisner
&-Son's store, is back on duty. She re
turned sooner than she expected owing
to the strike scare.
Mrs. Rose Nolan has purchased some
lots and will move her house which she
has bought back from the school dis
trict, from the olJ to the new location.
She expects to remodel the cottage and
make it modern.
Canning and preserving
Order through your grocer.
C. W. Reeder and - son, Charles, and
Alex Schueler, went to Collyer, Tues
day, on the plug and brought back two
Buick six automobiles. Alex has four
sold. Mr. Reeder gets one of the two
and it has not been decided who gets
the other, as there is considerable
rivalry for the other.
Mrs. Metzger and family moved
from the Ryan block last week to Mrs.
T. P. Logan's ccttage on West Sheri
dan. Mrs. Metzger came here frcm
Ransom, two years ago, because of our
excellent schools. Her son is a stu
dent at the Hays Catholic College. Mrs.
Metzger is a dressmaker and will be
glad to meet-anyone who wishes to
have any sewing done.
Schlyer & Arnhold, who are agents
for the Oakland and the Hudson auto
mobile, are just at present out of cars
but expect a car load of each most any
day. Their last car, a Hudson super
six, was sold to John Urban of Pfeifer.
The Oakland and Hudson are both
standard cars o; excellent make, are
dependable and graceful in design. In
fact, they are most desirable car3 and
well worth the purchase price.
H. H. Pierce and party, including
Ward W. Sullivan 'and wife, returned
Wednesday evening, from an automo
bile trip through Colorado. They visit
ed Denver, Colorado Springs, Manitou,
and. other interesting points. They
went over the Golden Belt automobile
route going, and returned over the San
ta Fe trail to Dodge City. While at
-Dodge they visited the Okl Soldiers'
home located there. The trip of ever
1000 miles was made in Mr. Pierce's '14
model Ford.
JAY DRIVING HENACL
between Edwards county and Hays,
will run through LaCrosse.
When Hays is entered the Anthony
& Northern will have a total trackage
of 120 miles between that point and
Pratt. State Journal.
White Way Posts Bother Only Those
Who Are Ignorant Auto Drivers.
By P- Caspar Harvey.
The person who complains of the
White Way posts on Normal Avenue
and Juniata Street, i3 merely announc
ing himself-as ignorant of how to drive
an automobile. Not only that but he is
informing the world that he does not
understand the "rules of the road."
The narrowness of the streets has no
thing whatever to do with the case in
Hays. In other places with narrower
streets, such standards serve as an aid
to traffic; but in theseother place3 peo
ple know how to drive a c?r. Driving
an automobile is more than understand
ing the names of the units of the drivel
ing mechanism. Calculating stops,
starts, the intentions of other drivers,
etc, count heavily. . Hays autoists a3 a
rule, seem to feel that the street Is for
them alone. It is not. People who do
not think fast, should not trust them-:
selves with a car. "Keep to the Right"
is a precept that rs any Hays autcists
observe everywhere except on the
streets cL their own home town.
Watch the Hays City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
Last week, Mrs. Wm. King sold her
home residence to Mrs. Dorney.
The Misses Seelye of the Smoky Hill
country, were in Hays, Tuesday.
Clarence Funk a former resident of
Hays, was over from LaCrosse, Sunday.
Jean and Margaret Cave left Sunday
night, for their respective schools.
Margaret goes to Concordia, and Jean
to Hill City.
Watch the Hays City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
The Ladies Aid . of the Luthe ran
church will meet September 14th, at
the church. We tie yand finish bed
comforts for 50 cents each.
Alice Connell, accompanied by
Gevena Rupp, returned from Enter
prise, Kansas, Friday evening, where
they had been on a visit to relatives
and friends.
Sanford Sites is building a second
story to the east wing of his residence
on East Juniata Street. He is also
building an addition of considerable
size on to the rear of the home.
Solid gold neck chains with diamond
pendants, 5.75 to, S20.00, at J. T. Mor
rison, the jeweler's.
Alvin Fellers has so far recovered
from a recent operation for appendici
tis, that he has been discharged from
the hospital and gone home.
Felix E. Bissing, and Ella Perschinske
of Gorham, accompanied by his sisters,
Felicitis and Lidwina. visited friends
in Salina, Sunday. They made the
trip, 110 miles, in Felix's Ford automo
bileone way in four hours.
A charter has recently 'been issued
to Fred N. Dreiling, Nick Dreiling,
Jake and Caspar Kippes, Eli Cole and
Anton Schoemacher & Sons, for a
third bank at Ellis. There surely must
be money in running a bank or so
many of oar monied men would not be
investing their spare change in bank
ing. A Hays neighborhood has a drama all
its own. Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Flood
have named their baby, Jane Kathryn.
Their little sen, Clayton, is immensely
proud of his little s:ster and talks about
her considerably at the various homes
of the neighborhood. At the O'Laugh
lin horns,- he is much puzzled a3 to
what to call her, because Mi3S Jane
O'Laughlin speaks of hers little Jane
Flood, and Mis3 Kalhryn as .little Kath
ryn Flood. Clayton ha3 caught the
point and divides the names according
to what he believes ia the like3 of the
person to whom he 13 talking.
The fall semester of the Fort Hays
Kansas Normal School will open Tues
Iday, September 12. Indications are
that the enrollment will be the largest
in the history of the school. On ac
count of the good road3 it is expected
that the majorit3r will come to school
across country by automobile. Five
thousand catalogs were mailed ont
last week to bors and girls of Western
Kansas. Any one wanting a catalog
may have it by writing the school.
Six new faces will greet the students
in "facultj row" Millard Crane, pro
fessor of rural economics; J. W. Reed,
professor of chemistry and geology;
Eds-in Davis, in physics; E. B. Mat
thew, the new head of the department
of agriculture; Mis3 Helen Pestana,
assistant professor of music; and Mrs.
Sadie Keeler, assistant in rural educa
tion. Tn3 football schedule calls for seven
college games two gaiae3 with Has
kell, one at Lawrence and one at Hays;
Kansa Wesleyan University College
of - Emporia, Bethany College. St.
Mary's zrA Cooper College, .
E. M. Sperr, President. H. W. Oshant, Vice Pres.
Victor Holm, Cashier.
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
OF HAYS CITY, KANSAS
The Oldest Bank in Ellis County
' Progressive, Conservative, Reliable, Accommodating
Member Federal Reserve Bank, Kansas City, Ma
As Others See Us.
The Ellis county fair association has
secured grounds from the state under
lease and has sold stock to the amount
of $7,000 to be used for buildings. A
grand stand 200 feet long, and some
substantial and expensive buildings
are under construction. If the Rooks
County association, which has given
above a score of fairs in good years and
bad, had had the co-operation of our
citizens such as the Hays concern is
receiving, what might we" not have ac
complished in the way of great agri
cultural gatherings? Rooks County
Record.
A vote for Wilson and Marshall
means a vote to put the wage3 qf this
country on a level with the pauper
wages of Europe. How do you like
the prospect, Mr. Workingman?
American Economist.
Mrs. I. M. Yost is visiting her daugh
ter, Mrs. Walter Steadman. .
For "The Clean Milk" from healthy
tubercular tested cows, and Home
Creamery Butter, call,
s9t3 Woolridge Dairy, Phone 270.
Canning and preserving tomatoes
Order through your grover. al2tf
For Sale. A U. S. cream separator,
good as new, at less than half price.
a!2tf - E. B. Matthew.
Wheat $1.40 on the Hays market,
Wednesday.
Born to-Dr. and Mrs. Hennerick,
Saturday, a daughter.
Ed Grass went to Kansas City, Sun
day night, for a short outing.
Geo. Grass and wife have returned
from their trip to Pennsylvania.
Ex-Postmaster Geo. Leisinring of
Ellis, was transacting business in Hays,
Tuesday.
Mr. and Mrs. William Minn ara at
Excelsior Springs. Mr. Mann has been
in ill health for some months and his
condition is yet considered precarious.
We note the absence of Sunflower
Petals written for the Salina Journal
by our friend P. Caspar Harvey of
Hays. Harvey is spending the summer
in Chicago, learning how to be a real
reporter and we suspicion that he was
detailed to cover the morgue and has
been sick ever since. Oakley Graphic.
For "The Clean Milk" from healthy
tubercular tested cows, and Home
Creamery Butter, call,
s9t3 Woolridge Dairy, Phone 270.
The Baptist Ladies' Aid will hold a
food sale at Basgall's store, Saturday,
Sept. 9, at 10:30.
Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Nichols of
McCracken, drove over in their car
Tuesday, to do shopping at Hays. Mr.
Nichols is one of Rush County's very
early settlers who withstood the hard
ships and privations of the early pio
neer and now lives in ease and con
tentment. For "The Clean Milk" from healthy
tubercular tested cows, and Home
Creamery Butter, call,
s3t3 Woolridge Dairy, Phone 270.
The Gate wood family were returning
from LaCrosse, Sunday, and in going
down a grade John Gatewood who was
at the wheel some way lest control.
The car turned over completely with
its five occupants. There were none
of them very severely hurt other than
being bruised and terribly frightened.
Mrs. Gatewood sustainel the greatest
injuries, having disTosated her thumb
and otherwise bruising her consider
ably. The car was badly wrecked.
Cochran Heads Many Banks.
Plainville, Kan., Sept. 6. C. G.
Cochran, who came here in the early
days absolutely without means, is now
one cf the wealthiest men in the coun
ty. When Cochran arrived here there
were only a few buildings in Plainville.
He went to work and soon found him
self at the head of a hardware and im
plement store.
Paradise Flats, of which Plainville is
the center, settled up rapid.'y. Today
Mr. Cochran is head of a large ranch
stocked with thoroughbred cattle. He
also heads the First National bank cf
Plainville, the Zurich State bank, Da
mar State bank. Citizens State, bank of
Hays, and the Citizens State bank cf
Ellis.
He has applied for a charter for a
bank in Ellsworth. A substantial
building will be erected at Ellis close to
the elevators and centrally located in
the business district. Topeka State
Journal.
The Plainville correspondent had bet
ter send in all his stories about this dis
tinguished citizen of Hays, as the Hays
correspondent expects to get to writs
j them himself before long.
A New Business Venture.
A surprise was sprung on the citizens
of Ellis, and the friends of the interest
ed parties, the first of the week, when
it was announced that a charter had
been granted for the third bank at Ellis.
The incerporators are: Eli Cole, presi
dent; Fred N. Dreiling, vice president;
J. C. Kippes. cashier; and N. B. Drei
ling, Jr., assistant cashier. The direct
ors are A. Schumacher, N. Dreiling,
Sr., Caspar Kippes, Eli Cole" and Fred
N. Dreiling. The new organization will
be known as the Farmers State Bask
of Ellis, with a capitalization of $15,000.
The incorporators of this new venture
are all Ellis county business men. The
president, Eli Cole, is a resident of long
standing in Ellis county, who has mad 9
a financial success of life, and at present
is the very efficient cority comratssion
er from the First district. Fred N.
Dreiling, the vice president, . is the pres
ent county treasurer, whose stability
and business qualifications are well
known and his excellence as a citizen
J cannot be questioned. He is one of th
solid and progressive young business
men of the county. J. C Kippes has
made good, during a four years tenure
of the office of register of deeds. He
is a young man of excellent business
qualities, a citizen of worth, and as an
officer of the new bank of Ellis, will
undoubtedly be a success". The balance
of the officers and incorporators are
among the solid financial men of the
county, and the Free Press will venture
the assertion that the Farmers State
Bank of Ellis will become one of the
substantial financial institutions of
Western Kansas.
Business Notice.
I have recently purchased an interest
in the cement and concrete block busi
ness with James Mcintosh, and we are
now ready to do all kinds of cement
work. Your patronage is respectfully
solicited. - E. A. Jewell,
Hays, Kansas.
Agent Fie;e, this week, sold two
more of the Mrs. Adkins' lots on East
Wilson Avenue, to Jo'm S. Bird. Mr.
Baier and Mr. Bird now own that whole
block.
W
e are prepared to take care of
your orders for Meats, Groc
eries, Fresh Fruits and Vegetables
Phone 169
Ho - Mo
htm
mm
DIAPIONDS
Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Cut Glass, Silverware,
Hand Painted China and Phonographs
Our line is complete in every part- We will be glad to show you
- through our entire line. No trouble to show goods.
YOU. ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT
, J..T. H0RRIS0H, T&e Jewslsr '
Phohe No. IZ2 .Citizens Bask Building ' . Hays, Ktnsis
