I
. 1
9fa (0 flku Jitafmrfj, sis I
. P' Zfnc, $8.75. ' ' ?6,50; f ) y V ' Sunday generally fair preceded by
i. 1 . Vh showers this afternoon; cooler tonight.
FEARLEba, ' INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER.
I Forty-sixth Year-No. 217. Pree Rye Cent8- , OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916. Entered a9 Second-Claao Matter at the Postofflce, Oflden, Utah. H
i I Industrial Parade Unequaled in I I
j Beauty and Number of Floats I
f Five Bands with Drum Corps
j Enliven Long Line Made Up
pf Marchers and Automobiles
I Two hundred and fifty of the hap-
; ' plest and healthiest factor)' girls In
'. the world were the chief center of ln-
terest In Ogden this morning. They
; are the makers of Scowcroft's "Never
Rip" overalls and trousers and "Ma
derite" shirts and were a part of
John Scowcroft fc Sons' company's ex
hibit in the third, and closing, pa
rade of the Harvest Festival and
J - Fashion Show. The exhibit in its
' completeness was the most extensive
; ever made by an industrial establish
ment in Ogden, if not in the inter
mountain country according to many
traveled observers.
- Great interest was shown by other
local business, manufacturing, indus
trial and educational institutions In
the "Industrial Parade," which is to
be advertised throughout the country
through the medium of the motion pic
ture screen.
v The parade, which required forty-
', five minutes to pass a given point,
was, in its entirety, equal to the ex
m pectations of the local public which
'. has grown used to expecting much In
these events and the cause of wonder
ment to visitors not cognizant of Og-
den's way of doing things. Many of
the automobile owners, too, who en
tertained the street celebrators last
) ; night with their gay parade, were loy
al to tho committee again today and
: added much 'interest and color to the
bigger pageant.
First Division.
1 The first division, which began to
move north on Washington avenue
;l at 11 o'clock, was virtually the same
'a as in the automobile parade last night,
al It was led by a mounted flagbearer,
and two cow girls took the places of
$ the deputy sheriffs with Police Ser
r geants Mohlman and Peterson, as es
j cort to the mayor and city commis
f sioners and their wives who occupied
2 an automobile draped in American
'i flags.
i The float of Queen Fashona, es-
corled by the Ogden Municipal band,
i came next and was followed by Presl-
dent Albert Scowcroft of the Harvest
Festival. "Gus" Wright, representing
1 W. H. Wright & Sons company, had
for company in a big decorated auto
; mobile, fifteen little girls dressed in
' white, wearing blue caps and waving
( flags. In the middle of the group was
! a large-lettered sign announcing that
C -'The Kiddies of Today Will Be the
i Customers of Tomorrow."
The Martha society children, ap
pearing as they did last night, were
i. the center of much special interest
: and applause.
j Great Showing.
!Tho John Scowcroft &, Sons' com
pany exhibit, which was the big out
standing feature of the parade, was
I headed by Heber, Willard and Jos
1 eph Scowcroft, three sons of the
founder of the widely known Inter
mountain wholesale and manufacture
'i ing establishment, a drum and trum
i pet corps and a brass band. Then
came the official ."Never-Rip" float,
'i one of the largest over built in this part
"t of the country. It represented the
f local overall, shirt and underwear
I factory and carried six machines and
1 operatives. The machines were kept
in operation and large mirrors at both
I ends of the improvised factory made
I it appear much more extensive. At
the rear of the factory on wheels,
marched the Scowcroft office and
factory girls, the latter members of
V the Ogden Garment Workers' union,
approximately 250 in number. They
were followed by the malo employes
V of the firm, factory workers- sales
i m.m, officemen and warehousemen to
;l tho approximate number of 125. The
$ men, including the employers, were
dressed in "preparedness" uniforms,
'i "Never-Rip" khaki trousers, Made
i rite" shirts, leggins and cavalry hats,
and every person in the line, lnclud
. i Ing the girls, carried a green, white
', and purple umbrella and a small car
nival horn. The members of the
Scowcroft families, who rode in dec-
! orated automobiles in the first sec
tion of the parade, also carried the
umbrellns. .
This one exhibit covered a marcn
Ing distance of nearly three blocks
and was enthusiastically applaudcu
!' all along the line. To make its ex-
I hiblt the success it proved to be, the
, 1 Scowcroft company declared a lull
holiday today at its big establish-
fiant.
t Large Sugar Beet.
' A. float that caused the spectators
to ponder considerably as to its Idea
f tlty was that of the amalgamated
Sugar company. It was a m.ammotl:
sugar beet, nearly thirty feet Ion
I aud ten feet high at its top.
A splendid float was that of the
Ogden Packing & Provision company
W with its brand, "Mountain Bell," a
jf a central figure. This was representee
I by a huge bell in a belfry. At eact
& end of the belfry at the top was th(
' bead of a longhorn steer, and on th(
3 0 platform, directly above the bell, wai
I r a large papier-mache hog. Hams anc
I ' sides of bacon, ready for shipping
Ij (were hung from different places oi
Si r
the belfry, and among tho legends
explaining the size of the local pack
ing plant was the following:
"Capacity 1250 hogs, 1500 sheep,
800 cattle daily."
Candy Exhibit.
The Shupe-Wllllams Candy com
pany exhibit, in charge of James
Wothcrspoon, made a tremendous hit,
as usual. It was introduced by "Paul
Revere," a costumed horseman, and
a float on which was a "Paul Revere"
chocolate box 10x0 feet In size and
numerous smaller official containers
of the popular local confectionery
product. Three Shupe-Willlams auto
delivery trucks followed, and from
these and the float small boxes of
"Paul Revere" chocolates were flung
far and wide to the watchers at the
curbs and on the sidewalks.
An oxcellent replica of the coal
mining Industry was that given by
the Lion Coal company's float. This
included both the underground and
surface workings of a mine, includ
ing a miniature railroad in operation,
a hoisting outfit and a small mining
town.
Bees In the Parade.
The float of the Superior Honey
company was a most praiseworthy ex
hilbtion of originality and enterprise.
It was a genuine demonstration of the
honey industry, given by two work
men and a swarm of bees within a
screened room. This created much
comment.
Many Beautiful Floats.
The Murphy Grocery and Drug com
pany, makers of Hotel Utah brand
nnffno fWlpn'e Infpst "homfi Trod-
uct," was represented with a "Hotel
Utah!'. coffee float, the. architectural
scheme including three huge coffee
cans and a number of regular size.
Two floats were put into the .pa
rade by the Blackraan & Griffin com
pany, the first containing a fine dis
play of Utah vegetables and fruits
and the second a display of butter and
cheese, products of the company's
manufacturing department.
The Glen Brothers-Roberts company
displayed probably the largest phono
graph record ever made, calling at
tention to its Victor agency.
W. J. Parker, president of the Utah
Canners' association, was In the lime
light with a Parker's Canneries float.
This upheld a crowd of boys and
girls, dressed according to the pre
scribed Parker factory rule, in white
work dresses and overalls, together
with large pails of ripe tomatoes and
largo columns of canned goods, ar
ranged in artistic style.
The George A. Lowe company had
a "Galco" float, carrying four parlor
and drawing room stoves under a can
opy of lavender and white cloth. The
Scoville Paper company's float dis
played samples of its varied types of
stock. The Last & Thomas "Harvest"
float, with the bevy of merry girls
thereon, drew considerable attention,
as did the Utah Agricultural college
float with Its industrious maids.
An Immense brown vase filled with
cut flowers was the main feature of
the Weber Floral company's float.
Thr rtrlfn Furniture and Carnet
company's float exhibited the con
trast between the styles of the pres
ent and past in bedroom furniture.
At one end was a room fitted with
furniture of the early days in Utah,
including a bed that was once the
property of Brigham Young, the 'Mor
mon prophet and colonizer. On the
other end was a modern bedroom
suite, finished in white,.
The C. W. Cross Harness company
was represented by five richly capar
isoned cowboys and a float, on which
was a fine display of saddles and
automobllo robes.
Tamaki & Company had a Japan
ese ship float, on which were riding
several Japanese women In their na
tive costume. These ladles threw
small boxes of "safety" matches to
the spectators of the parade,
Tho Boyle' Furniture company en
tered a float carrying a handsome
leather upholstered bedroom suite.
The following automobllo companies
and agecnies were represented: Bin
ford Motor company, Goodale-Scoville
Motor company, Kisselkar, Buick,
.Grant Six, Apperson and Anderson &
Larson, auto builders.
Reed Brothers had an auto In the
parade.
A district ranger's home, repre
sented on the float, contributed to
the pageant by the Ogden district
headquarters of the United States for
est service department, attracted
, much attention and praise, as did also
a ranch home scene on an elaborate
i 1 float entered by tho Federal Land
l company.
; The Ladles' Auxiliary to the Span
ish War Veterans attained prominence
by apearing as an escort to a car
', riagc occupied by two elderly mem
i bers of their, association. All o.f the
I ladies were dressed in the full re
i galla of their order, and on spccially
i made signs were the words "One
s Country" and "One Flag." .
i -An "All-Birtish" float was also a
I feature of extra interest.
The Troy laundry was represented
I by nine gaily decorhted cars andthe
SUTHERLAND IS NEW
U. S. BAR PRESIDENT
Senator George Sutherland.
Senator George Sutherland of Utah
was elected president of the Ameri
can Bar association at its recent an
nual convention in Chicago. His
election gave the far west the honor
of having a member in that office for
the first time.
Model laundry, by, five cars. -A num
ber of decorated auto delivery trucks
were entered by other local firms, and
several floats of last night's parade
were also in the line.
The different divisions were each
headed by a band, the marching musi
cal organizations being the Ogden
Municipal band, Scowcroft's band,
drum and trumpet corps, the Moun
tain Echo girls' band, the Utah State
Industrial school band and the Logan
Military band.
Prizes Avarded.
Announcement of the prize awards
for the industrial parade were made
this afternoon by the committee of
judges, composed of A. P. Bigelow, R.
B. Porter and John S. Lewis. They
selected six first awards in that num
ber of classifications, as follows:
John Scowcroft & Sons' company,
manufacturers; Parker Canneries,
packers; Lion Coal company, miscel
laneous; Blackman & Griffin, jobbers;
Boyle Furniture company, retail;
j Greek colony, for float built by for
eigners. While the judges made no announce
ment as to their views regarding the
competition between these six floats,
as there was no sweepstakes prize
this year, they are said to have con
sidered that the leaders in each class
would have run a close race If placed
in direct competition with each other.
AT WORK ON BIG
INDIANA PAGEANT
F. A. Miller.
He is president of South Bend's
Indiana Centennial association, which
has been at work for months on a
tremendous historical pageant which
will be presented early in October as
the main featuro of a celebration in
recognition of the centennial of Indi
ana's admission to statehood and tho
semi-centennial of South Bend's in
corporation as a cit"
LIVELY FIGHTING
IN CARPATHIANS
Petrograd Reports Taking 500
Prisoners and Five Ma
chine Guns.
TORPEDO SEAPORT
Baltjik on Black Sea, Ruman
ian Coast Bombarded. -By
Torpedo Boats.
Petrograd, Sept. 9', via London, 2 -50
p. m. German and Turkish troops are
engaged in stubborn fighting with
Russian forces in Galicia on the river
Naraiuvka, in the direction of Halicz,
according to an official statement Is
sued today by the Russian war depart
ment. A counter attack made by the
Turks and Teutons, the statement
adds, was repulsed by tho Russians.
In the Carpathians, south of Bara
noff the Russians stormed a series
of heights. They took 500 prisoners,
the announcement says, and captured
a mountain battery of several cannon
which had been thrown into the ra
vines. Russian torpedo boats, it is de
clared, bombarded the Rumanian
port of Baltjik on the Black sea and
sunk twenty-one barges In which the
Bulgarians, who had occupied the sea
port, were shipping bread. The state
ment says:
I "German-Turkish counter attacks
on the river Naraiuvka, in the direc
tion of Halicz, were repelled by our
fire. In this area stubborn fighting
continues, a
"In the Carpathians, south of Bara
noff, our troops carried a series of
heights, taking more than 500 prison
ers and capturing five machine guns
and a mountain battery.
"Caucasian front: In the region of
Ognott stubborn fighting continues,
"Black sea: Our torpedo boats bom
barded the port of Baltjik on the Ru-
I manian coast and sunk twenty-one
barges in which the Bulgarians were
shipping bread from this port. Enemy
j seaplanes attacked our torpedo boats
j without result."
I nn
BERLIN REPORTS
MIHJIGHTII
Renewal of Violent Russian
Attacks in Carpathians Re
ported by Austrians.
CENTRAL POWERS YIELD
Russians Driven Back by Ot
toman Troops and 1,000
Prisoners Are Captured.
Berlin, Sept. 9, via London, 11 a.
m- The following statement was is
sued today by the admiralty:
"On September G our naval aero
planes dropped bombs on hostile for
ces off Arenburg, on Oesel island (in
the Gulf of Riga). Near Zeevel a hos
tile aeroplane was forced down.
"On September 7 a Russian gun.
boat bombarded the north Courland
coast without success. It Avas pur
sued and bombed by naval aeroplanes.
Berlin, Sept. 9, by wireless to Say
ville. Correspondents accompanying
the Bulgarian and German armies
which are invading Rumania, report
that along the Black sea coast an ad
vauce of 80 kilometers (about 50,
miles) beyond the frontier already,
has been made. They express I he
opinion that the progress of the in-
vaders, who have occupied several im-)
portant positions on the coast and,
elsewhere in Dobrudja, explains the
irresolution and comparative inactiv
ity of the Rumanian forces which,
having invaded Transylvania arc now
merely sending out small detach,
ments to reconnolter.
Not only Rumanians, but Russians
have been defeated by the Bulgarians
in Dobrudja, the correspondents say
and this destroys the legend that
Bulgarians will not fight Russians.
Violent Russian Attacks.
Berlin, Sept. 9, by wireless to Say.
ville. Renewal of violent Russian at
tacks In the Carpathians is reported in
the Austrian official statement of
September 6. R i8 said except for
some small advantages, the deter
mined efforts of the Russians to ad
vance have been thwarted.
East of Zloffoc in Galicia forty miles
east of Leraberg, the Russians at
tacked after heavy artillery prepnra.
tion. They were repulsed by the Aus.
trian artillery fire.
Berlin, Scpt.oTwaJndon, 4. 30 P-1
CHICAGO MAN ENDS HONEYMOON BY I
KILLING BRIDE TO "SAVE HER SOUL"
J. Maurice Pettit, his slain bride and her mother.
Erotic insanity in its stranjrest form drove J. Maurice Pettit of Chi
cago to end his honeymoon by the murder of his bride. He believed that
the only hallowed love was that of the Piatonic type, and the really refined
spiritual emotion forever divorced from the fiechLv desires of the normal
human. And so he killed her to "save her souL"
m. Forces of the central powers In'
the Carpathian mountains northwest
of Kapul, says today's official report
issued by the German general staff,
yielded yesterday before the pressure
exerted by the Russians.
"Continued Russian attacks yester
day between the Zlota Upa and the
Dniester again met with no success,
By counter attacks the enemy detach
ments, which had penetrated our
trenches, were driven out and on a
front occupied by Ottoman troops the
Russians were driven beyond the
point from which they had started.
More than 1,000 prisoners and several
machine guns have been brought in.
"In the Carpathians the enemy
threw strong forces on the heights
west and southwest of Shypot and
near Dorna-Watra. Northwest of
Kapul we yielded before pressure.
"Balkan theater: Renewed enemy
attacks near Dobric (southeastern Ru
mania) again failed."
P1CT0B ID TACKLER
FUGUES IDE 1
CAPTURED
Information was received at the of
fico of T. A. DeVine, Weber county
sheriff, this morning, to the effect that
Frank Proctor and F. R. Tackier, two
members of the trio who escaped from
the county jail a week ago today by
burrowing through the rear wall, had
been taken into custody at Provo. Tho
arrests were made by Sheriff Henry
East of that place, who identified tho
youths by photographs that acconv
panied descriptions sent out in cir
cular by the local sheriffs office aft
ter the prisoners had escaped.
East, according to the telegram,
took tho fugitives in custody as they
were leaving the vicinity of American
Fork, on the San Pedro railroad
tracks which run through the town.
Their personal effects consisted prin
cipally of plunder that was the prop,
erty of an American Fork farmer,
whose house they are accused of rob
bing. At the time of jail delivery Fackler,
who is 19 years old, was serving a six
months' sentence at the county jail.
He was convicted of a charge "of lar
ceny In connection with the robbery
of tho W. D. Thomas Meat and Gro
cery store. Two otherB implicated in
the robbery, James Wilson and
Charles J. Delaney, were sent to pris
on after conviction on the samo I
charge. On account of his extremo
youth, Fackler was given the lighter
sentence.
Proctor was awaiting trial on a
charge of grand larceny. He was an
rested by Robert Burk, chief of the
city detective force, when the officer
caught him in the act of extracting
a one-dollar bill from. tho pocket. o,
6
John Thomas, on Twenty-second
street.
Adolph Smith, the third member of
the trio, to make his escape, is still
at large. At the time of the delivery
he was awaiting trial on a larceny
charge. He was placed under arrest
by Robert Chambers of the city detec
tive force when he emerged from the
home of H. C. Herrington, 521 Twen.
ty-third street, which he had entered
for the purpose of robbery. Members
of the Herrington family assisted the
police department In making the ar
rest by sending in a call for an officer
when Smith was in the house.
Curt Allison, deputy sheriff, stated
that the authorities here and at Provo
had not decided as to the disposition
of the prisoners. He said, however,
It was likely they will be returned to
this city. If brought back, Fackler,
at the conclusion of his jail term,
will be charged with felony growing
out of the jail-break. A felony charge
also will be placed against Proctor.
The authorities had not determined
whether his act in robbing John
Thomas would constitute a grand lar
ceny or felony charge before he had
escaped.
Sheriff T. A. DeVine and all the
deputies at the local offices are con
vinced that the prisoners aro hardened
I criminals.
WEATHER BUREAU
PREDICTIONS
Washington, Sept. 9. Weather pre
dictions .for the week beginning Sun
day Issued by the weather bureau to
day are:
Upper Mississippi valley and plains
states: Generally fair except show
ers Si:udayin the upper Mississippi
vailey and Wednesday or Thursday
In northern plain states. Cooler with
in next forty-eight hours, followed by
moderate temperatures.
Rocky mountain and plateau re
gions: Generally fair except local
showers at beginning of week over
southern Rocky mountain region. Tem
peratures near or below seasonal nor
mal. Pacific states: Generally fair; tem
peratures near seasonal normal.
AND MA'S MOTHER.
Evelyn is very cowardly and her fa
ther decided to have a serious talk
with his little daughter.
"Father," she said at the close of
his lecture, "when you see a cow,
ain't you 'fraid?"
"No I" with scorn.
"Ain't you 'fraid when it thunders?"
"No," with laughter. "Oh, you silly,
silly child."
"Papa," said Evelyn solemnly,
"ain't you 'fraid of nothing in the
world but mamma?"
BRITISH CAPTURE I
GERMANJRENCH I
Sharp Hand-toHand Fighting I
in High Wood, on the ' M
Somme Front. I
BAVARIANS CAPTURED 1
Report Considerable Activity I
Against Front North I
of Pozieres. I
Both the French and British took 1 I
the offensive on the Somme front last I
night. The French war office reports j I
the capture of a wood east of Belloy. j
It says 7,700 Germans have been cap- 1 I
tured since September 3. London an- j I
nounces the capture of a German I
trench near High wood. i
Petrograd announces that the Rus- j M
si'ans have stormed a series of heights I I
in the Carpathians taking 500 prison. 1 H
Pr.ess 'despatches from Berlin re- J I
port that the Bulgarians and Germans I
are beating down all opposition in I
eastern Rumania and have already ad- I I
vanced about fifty miles north of the I
Bulgarian frontier.' I I
Berlin, Sept. 9, via London, 6:25 p. I
m. "Enemy attacks on the Somme I M
slackened during the day," says to- 1
day's German official statement. "An j I
English local enterprise at Foureaux j !
wood (High wood) and night attacks II
by the French against the Berny-Deni-
court sector failed. We cleared j I
small portions of our wood which had 1 I
remained In the hands of the enemy." I
Loudon, Sept. 9 (2:15 p. m.) -The jl I
British captured a German trench H I
In High wood on the Somme front II I
after a sharp fight last night, it was fjl
announced officially today. German jl
troops made several attacks during ill
the night but none of them in force. )l
The statement follows: ail
"Last night there was some sharp 1
hand-to-hand fighting in High wood, ill
where we captured a trench, taking jji
two officers and nineteen Bavarians. 3
In this operation heavy casualties nil
were inflicted on the enemy. jjl
"There has been considerable hos- !
tile activity against our front north nl
of Pozieres and in the neighborhood flf
of Mouquct farm. In this section Jt
small infantry attacks were easily re- ;a
pulsed. A detachment of the enesiy ,
which attempted to advance from the jjl
direction of Courecelette was stopped ' yw
by our fire. 1w
"Our troops carried out stveral sue-
cessful enterprises In the neighbor- ill
hood of Arras and Hohelzern redoubt sF
and north of Nuevelle. The enemy JP
trenches were entered, some prisoners 11'
were taken and other casualties were llv
inflicted." J
London, Sept 9 (2:40 p. m.) "The Jj;
artillery" duel on the Doiran frout
continues," says today's official ac-
count of operations In Macedonia. Jfcjj
"At Struma Thursday our artillery j r
silenced an enemy battery which was I
shelling Oroljak bridge. Our artillery h
dispersed several parties of the ene-
my." J.
TRENCH GlNS ON
SOMME FRONT
Paris, Sept, 9, noon. Renewing l!
their assault on the Somme front last 81 1
night, the French made a further Bljj
gain. The capture of a small wooded aljj
area is reported today by the war of- i
flee. German attacks in the Verdun 1W
sector were repulsed. 3 Hi
Prisoners taken by tho French since im
September 3, the statement says, num- SBl
ber 7700, including 100 officers. Af- giro
ter the unsuccessful German attacks lm'
of yesterday, a great number of Ger- Ml
man dead were found on the field and Ml
in communicating trenches. R
The announcement says: jtlj
"South of the Somme we carried a if
smal wood east of Belloy-en-Santerre
and made progress east of Denlcourt. J
"Reports from the Somme front I
agree as to the Importance of the
losses sustained by the enemy during s
his last attack. The number of eGr-
man bodies found Is considerable. 1
Prisoners taken by the French troops - fi
alone north and south of the Somme
since September 3 amount to 7700 j Ij
men. Including about 100 officers. ! I
"On the right bank of the Meuse : I
intense artillery fighting continues In I
the region of Fleury, Vaux, Chapitre 1(
and Chenois. Germans attacked the B
positions we captured September 6 in ! fi
Vaux-Chapltre wood. Our curtain of f
fire broke up all the enemy's at- U.
One of our aerial squadrons last I:
night dropped twenty-four bombs on I W
rallwav stations at Etaln and Con- R
flans and on military establishments ; jl
at Rombach;"' j
