THE WEATHER.
J'
f THE EAGLE
. Gives you the newi today. The oth
ers tomorrow..
mm
Tonight and Sunday generally (air.
AND PILOT
feffe
VOL. XXX. NO. 210.
BRYAN, TEXAS, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916.
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM.
lis
'. A . . .A
Crisco
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well In warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
DEPARTMENT
Cam
B. Wllaon ft Co. Get Lssss
Entire Rohde Building and
Will Enlarge.
en
If. 1 INDUSTRIES
MAY
E TIE UP
New York. Sept. . Union labor
loaders of National and state prom
inence were railed Into New York's
transit situation today with the an
nouncement by the local atrlke lead
ers that within 24 hours a conference
would be held the outcome of which
might mean a 24 hour tie up of all
the city's Industries.
ALL 1VEUTS
FAVQRIBLET 0 ALLIES
French Made Small Cains on the Somme Front.
Germans and Turks Fight Stubbornly Against
Russians, But All Atttacks Repulsed Teu
tonic Forces Had to Yield Before Russian
Pressure in the Carpathians This Was Con
ceded by the German Official Staff Serbians
Win on Macedonian Front Russian Torpedo
Boats Bombard Rumanian Port Held by Bul
garians and Sink Twenty-one Barges Loaded
With Bread.
London, Sept 9. Renewing, their
assaults en the 8omme front last
night the French captured a smsll
wooded area, according to the Paris
announcement j
German and Turkish troops (are
fighting stubbornly with the Russians
nesr Hallci, Galicla, but all counter
attacks by the Teutons were repulsed,
Petrograd announces. The statement
adds that In the Carpathians, souta of
Bsrsnoff, the Russians stormed at se
ries of heights and took 500 prisoners
snd captured a mountain batter of
seversl cannon. j
. Paris says after a violent engage
ment on the Macedonian front, the
Servians captured a height west of
Lske Ostrovo.- "
Long Branch, N. J, Sept. 9. Prea.j Forces of the Central powera In the
Wilson arrived at the summer capital Carpathians, northwest of Kspul,
after an uneventful motor trip from yielded before the pressure of the
Atlantic City. Small crowd greeted Russians, saya the official report of
him on bis arrival. .the German general staff.
Petrogrsd reports thst Russian tor-
PRESIDENT
AT
SUMMER CAPITOL
A rumor has been current for ths
psst several days that Bryan was to
iave a modern department store be
fore the spring of 1917. The Eagle
reporter started this moraine with a
determination of locating same aud
bad not gone far until be waa able to
ascertain facta regarding aame. It
waa found that 8am B. Wilson ft Co.
had leased the bulldiu formerly oc
, cupled by the Bryan Dry Cooda Com
pany or the other half of the Rohde
building which they now occupy. On
entering this popular .establishment
Air. Wilson waa founJ busily engaged
with, bis customers and whn ap
proached on the subjrc: he Mid:
'Yea, we hare leased the other half
of ills building and in the ilrst of Idea will prevail to relieve a crowded .P'o bombarded the Rumanian!
n-rt January our pla" Is to pea a 'condition, aa It will be their plan to'Port of Baltjlk, en ths Blsck Sts, oc-,
modern department atore. We bare 'not overlook the comfort of their ens- eupled by the Bulgariane, and sank
long realized 'that Bryan nee this tomera. itwsnty-one barges loaded with breed,
kind of a atore, and we bare felt that I In leasing the other half of the The British captured German
It waa op to ua, but have been forced .Rohde building this firm will acquire trenches In High wood, on the Somme
WWWMWMWMWWWWWWWMWIIWWWWW(IWWWW
YOU CAH PHONE uc
any order for groceries at any time and we'll tee to it that
you get what you order, at the beet prices, and delivered
with extreme celerity. We have undoubtedly the choicest
line of canned goods including pickles and preserves that
canning and preserving factories produce. Have you tried
any?
1 .
Reid Bros.
PRESIDENT SPEAKS
SO
WORIG
TO
TO
SUFFRAGISTS
E
il
-i:
' Revolutionary Plot Unearthed,
Capetown, Sept. 9. Details of an
attempt to foment another rebellion
against the British In South Africa
was disclosed at the trial of two men,
Vandermer and Schonken, charged
with high treason. They are alleged
to have approached a number of
prominent Boers including General
DeWct, whom they told large stores
of rifles were available and that cer
tain Boer generals were willing to
lead the revolt. The hearing was not
concluded.
Russian General Escaped
Petrograd. Sept 9. General Kornl
loft, formerly y commander of a Rus
sian division, who waa Tsptured- by
the Austrians In Galicla last year,
escaped from a prison camp In Aus
tria and has arrived in Bucharest af
ter walking at night and biding In
day for a month, it is announced by
a semi-official newa agency.
(Br Associated Praia)
Atlantic City, Sept. 9. The dele
gates to the National American Wo
man Suffrage convention were espe
cially pleased at President Wilson's
statement that he had come to Atlan
tic City to "fight with somebody."
This statement the suffragettes free
ly Interpreted as meaning that he had
enrolled himself in their cause.
(Br Associated iTesa)
Chicago, 111., Sept, 9. Commutation
of the death sentence of George
Krupa was asked on the grounds that
the trial Is said to have established a
record In Illinois Jurisprudence, con
suming only one day. Krupa'a 12-Tear-old
son appeared before the gov
ernor at Springfield. No decision has
been announced yet.
FOUST MURDER CASE.
(Br Associated Vnm.'S
Sherman, Texas, Sept. 9. The case
ft faa i nnla Cstii a mrtttsttt I m Ko I n r
I vi a, a,asui a wuots " uivu ss I it a
(tried here for mnrder in connection
hvlth the killing of Rer. H. M. Cagle,
BapUst minister, on February 7th
jlast, waa given over to the jury today
i&L-Booo. , tb arguments were- ,om-
pleted this morning. -
FREIGHT RATES"
ORDERED REDUCED
SURF A GREAT PLAYGROUND.
10,000 square feet of floor space, and front, last night after a aharp fight,
with the Ideaa of a modern atore aays the British official announce
which Mr. Wilson possesea, Bryan msnt
will no doubt be In the lead In this
COTTON RECEIPTS.'
to await the opportunity to secure the
space for the location."
' In further conversation Mr. Wilson
stated that they would Install new de
partments and modern systems part of Texas with a department
throughout compatible with such a store. The partition wall which has
store, and open at the beginning sev-ibeen In this building will be torn out
era! new departments, namely, a Jure-and the entire building thrown to
ntle department novelty and notion gether. The front will be changed en
departments, men's furnlshlnt-s and tlralr and made new. with white mar-
tailored sulfa for men and youths. Ibis tiling and plate glass. The store l n,on wr,non
-Thla denirtment .in k. .a ..J-.ni v. . i.. ., - ,j . Uwrence warehouse
sr - " v hishiw sWWasa tv m iw-pussni . j siuie sets vin
clally strong and attractive. The en- that everybody will be proud to ahow
tire metisnlne floor will be devoted , In Bryan.
to their ready to wear ladles' and The Eagle la elated over being able
11 SUPT. KILLED
SI III IS SECURED
Following arsMSe cotton receipts
In Bryan np to noon today:
Brick warehouse '
.?16
1S10
.2761
(Br Associated Praia)
St Clalrsvllie, Ohio, Sept 9. Auto-
knoblle bandts thla morning held up
nd murdered Lee, Rankin, superln
tendent of the Florence mine of the
Youghlogheny Coal Company, while
on his wsy to pay the miners their
, wages. The bandits made good their
escape and carried 110,000 booty with
them.
M. E. Wallace, former newspaper
man and now In business at Bryan,
Texaa, thinks Galveston's surf pro-
hvldes the finest playground In the
world. Accompanied by Mrs. Wallace
he has come here to spend several
days, and Is warm In hla praise of the
resort festures of the city. He be
lieves that health and surf bahlng are
Mynonymous.
The crops in the Bryan section are
the beat In years, says Mr. Wallace.
;-Galveston News.
(Br Aaaoalated Praia.
Washington, Sept 9. Reductions
,before February 1st of freight rates ,
jfiotii MeinpMg78t'LesilB ant! Kansas
ICity to Shreveport and Alexandria,
pa and points in Southern Arkansaa
and Louisiana have been ordered by
khe Interstate Commerce Commission
,-to remain In force two years.
Total
Street cotton
sold today at
.Ml
14
STORM REPORTED IN BOTTOM.
j It waa reported In the city today
tnai a ratner severe storm prevauea
rhiMrn-. f..ri.M.... a ... ..A ... .u . cents: cotton seed sold for ItO.OO.
art goods and millinery department Wilson Is a selfmsde man and hasl On the aame date last year cotton tne jower Braios Bottom late yea
Two broad sUlrwsys will enter the stuck to Bryan from etart to finish. mM on the streets f Bryan for 9(terday afternoon. An estimate of the
meixanlne floor, thereby avoiding a He la a leader In all public enterprise Jcenta, and cotton aeed for for 120.00 damage could not be ascertained, but
Dusy day congestion. There will also snd. has never lost an opportunity to .There had been HjO oaiea oi couou jt i( understood that Iota of cotton
Ae spacious rst rooms maintained (help In making Bryan a bigger and received In Bryan on the same date M Down out nj tnat t nn
on this floor. n the main floor the .better town,
. i
a '
- -1
last rear.
r
Moon ByoSo Buggies
Are Life Time Buggies
You
i
BUGGIES THAT LAST A LONG TIME AFTER THE PRICE IS FORGOTTON.
will soon need a NEW BUGGY; why not have It now?
The recent advance on buggies amounts to from $7.50 to $15.00 a buggy. Buy now
while we are in a position to sell at the old prices.
Fortunately we have contracts for several car loads placed before the advance.
We have now the best stock of buggies we have ever owned. Good styles In cheap
buggies as well as the MOON BROS, class.
We sell for cash or on terms until October 1st we will give 10 per cent discount
for CASH. We can guarantee this big cashdiscount until October 1st only All facto
ries have another advance scheduled for that time. See our line, get our prices nowl
did considerable damage to the aam
pie of the staple. x
PERSONAL MENTION.
Mrs. Jim Dunn of Hesrne, who has
been visiting relatives In Bryan, weut
to Benchleyhls afternoon, where she
will visit -. .. i
Mrs. Lou Robinson has returned
from Hempstead, where she has been
Tlsltlng relatives and friends.
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Atkinson and
daughter iMIss Bolma, of tola were
visitors todsy In the city,
Dolph Sheffield. W. C. Rogers.
Frank Reddln and Will Barron of
tola were among the visitors noted
todsy In the city.
8. P. Boll of Zulch waa a business
visitor In the city todsy and was a
pleasant caller at The Eagle office.
Misses Berdle and Bessie Rlstnger
of Steep Hollow were shopping In
Hhe city todsy.
Mrs. II. B. McDowell of Bryan" la
visiting Mrs. Clay Youngkln. llearne
Democrat '
Mr. and Mrs. Hsrry Peverly have
returned to their home In Bryan after
a visit with the parents of Mrs. Pev
erly. llearne Democrat
Misses Olecla Crowell and Mary
Guyton of Galveston have arrived to
enter Villa Maria Academy. They are
spending the weekend with Miss
Kaly Daly.
A SENSIBLE HORSE.
A horse belonging to the Texas
Bakery became frightened this morn
ing out on 27th street and ran away
beading Into Main street going south
and turned east on 25th street, going
back to the Bakery. The horse waa
badly frightened but held his head
through all the ecare. Main street
waa crowded with traflc and he dod
ged about 25 vehicles of various
kinds and never got a scratch. The
wagon waa not hurt except the back
door being split when he crossed the
I. ft Ov N. track.
TRAINS ARE DELAYED.
Mall and expreaa from the North
yesterday were not In evidence la
Bryan. Tbe L ft O. N. Southbound
train telescoped a freight train early
! yesterday morning and waa delayed
several houra. The Northbound H.
ft.T. C train No. IS waa derailed
about seven miles north of the eii
and the Southbound train was detour,
ed from Hearne to Hempstead and
did not pass through this city at alL
The passengers, mall and express ar
rived In the city last night at 1):M
over this road. Considerable Incon
venience waa experienced In the city
with the grocers who receive dally
shipments of bread from North. Mall
from the North was not received her
unUI this morning. There were three
people kUled In the L ft O. N. wreck
but no one waa hurt In the derail'
ment of the R ft T. C. train.
A judicious silence is always better
than truth spoken without charity.
De Sales.
Complete In Every Detail
Furniture for the home from the Kitchen to the Parlor.
Medium to Highest quality. Prices doubly attractive.
sij ii
Tho Famous Scaly Mattress.
-LIKE SLEEPING ON A CLOUD-
SOLD BV
W. T. JAMES, Furnlturo
