PLAY
PAIR
VOLUME XLV.
STK: GEXKVLEVR. MIHSOtJIU. SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER J). 1.)10.
NUMBER 20.
PRESIDENT TELLS CONGRESS OF
STEPS TO PRESERVE PEACE
Wilson Urges Legislative Program to End Dispute
and Prevent Similar Ones In Future
Washington, D. C. President Wil
son's address to congress on the rail
road strike situation follows, In part:
"Gentlemen of tho Congress I have
como to you to seek your assistance
in dealing with n very grave situa
tion, which has. arisen out ot the de
mand of the employes of the railroads
engaged in freight train service that
they bo granted .in eight-hour work
ing day, safeguarded by. payment for
an hour and a halt of service for
every hour of work beyond the eight.
"The matter has been agitated for
more than a year.
"The matter came some three
weeks, ago to a final Issue and result
ed In- a complete deadlock between
the parlies, The means provided by
law for mediation of tho controversy
failed, and the means of arbitration
for which tho law provldcB were re
jected. "Tho law put no compulsion upon
them. The 4nn,fO0 men from whom
the itaaMfidfl proceeded r.ad voted to
strike If their demands were refused;
the strike was Imminent; It has since
been set for the 4th of September
next,
"Just no scon as It became evident
that mediation under tho existing law
"had failed and that arbitration had
been rendered Impossible by the atti
tude of tho men, I considered It my
duty to confer with the representa
tives of both tho railways and the
brotherhoods, and myself offer medi
ation, not as an arbitrator, but mere
ly as a spokesman of the mitlon, In
-the Interest of Justice, indeed, and as
a friend of both parties, but not as
Judge, only as the representative ot
100.000,000 of men, women and chil
dren who would pay the price, the In
calculable price, of loss and suffer
ing, should these few men Insist upon
approaching and concluding the mat
ters In controversy between them
merely as employers and employes,
rather tfian as patriotic citizens ot the
"United States looking before and aft
er and accepting the larger responsi
bility which the public would put
upon them.
"It seemed to me, In considering
-the subject matter ot tho controversy,
that tho whole spirit of the time and
tho preponderant evidence of recent
economic experience spoke for the
clg,ht-hour day.
"I, therefore, proposed that the
-eight-hour day bo adopted by the rail--way
managements and put into prac
tice for tho present as a substitute
for the existing 10-hour basis ot pay
and service; that I should appoint,
with tho permission of congress, a
small commission to observe tho re
sults of tie change, carefully study
ing the figures o'f the altered operat
ing costs not only, but also the con
ditions of labor under which the men
worked and the operation of their ex
isting agreements with the railroads,
with instructions to report the facts
as they found them to tho congress at
-the earlleBt possible day, but without
recommendation; and that after tho
facts had been thus disclosed an ad
justment should In some orderly man
ner be sought of all tho matters now
'left unadjusted between the railroad
managers and the men.
"I unhesitatingly offered, tho friend
ly servlcefl of the administration to
tlie railway managers to see to It that
Justice was done the railroads In tho
outcome. I felt warranted in assur
ing them no obstacle of law would be
suffered to stand In the way of their
increasing their revenue to meet the
expenses resulting from tho change
so far as tho development of their
business and ot their administrative
efficiency did not prove adequate to
-meet them.
"Tho representatives of the brother
, hoods accepted tho plan; but tho rep
resentatives of tho railroads declined
to acqept it. In tho face of what I
-cannot but regard as the practical
-certainty that they will ultimately be
obliged to accept tho eight-hour day
by the concerted action of organized
"labor, backed by tho favorable judg
ment ot society, tho representatives
of tho railway management have felt
Justified, in declining a peacelul set
tlement which would engage nil tho
forces pf justice,--public and private,
on their side to take caro of the
ovent. TJiPy fear tho ho.stlle Influ
ence pf shippers, who would bo' op
posed to an Increase of freight rates
(for which, however, of course, ,th
public Itself would pay); they appari
cntly feel no confldenco that tho in
terstate, commerce commission could
-withstand tho objections that would
be made. They do not care to rely
upon the friendly assurances' of tho
congress or tho president, Thoy have
thought It-best that they should be
forced to yield, If they must yield,
not by consent, but by the suffering
Oh. Girls.
"I Intend to marry for love' said
the girl with tho dreamy eyes.
"You are wise( my dear," replied
her dearest friend. "Men with money
are. often so hard to please."
Retort 'Courteous.
IJelle I'm sorry, dear, that you can
not get Into our archery club, but
they keep -It, so occlusive,-- . . .-
Nell 6b, have' if to' yourse'lves'-if
you need It that bad, I don't havo
to join an archery, club to draw, p.
beau.
of tho country. While my conforenccs
with them wcro In progress nnd when
to all outward appearances thoso con
ferences had come to a standstill, tho
representatives of tho b'rotherhoods
suddenly acted and set the strike for
the 4th of September.
"I yield to no man In firm ndher
ence, alike of conviction and purpose,
to the principle of arbitration in In
dustrial disputes; but matters havo
como to a sudden crisis In this par
ticular dispute and the country had
been caught unprovided with any
practicable means of enforcing that
conviction In practice (by whoso fault
we will not now stop to Inquire).
"A situation had to bo met whose
elements nnd fixed conditions were
Indisputable. The practical and pa
triotic course to pursue, ns It reemcd
to me, was to secure Immediate peace
by conceding the one thing in the
demands of tho men which, society it
self and any arbitrators who repre
sented public sentiment were most
likely to approve and Immediately lny
tho foundations for securing arbitra
tion with regard to everything else
Involved. The event has confirmed
that Judgment.
"Rut I could only propose. I could
not govern the will of' others who .took
an entirely different view of the cir
cumstances of the case who even re
fused to admit tho circumstances to
be what they havo turned out to be.
"Having failed to bring tho parties
to this critical controversy to an ac
commodation, therefore, I turn to you,
deeming it clearly our duty as public
servants to leave nothing undone that
wo can do to safeguard the life and
Interests of the nation. In tho spirit
of such a purpose, I earnestly recom
mend the following legislation:
"1. Immediate provision for the en
largement and admlnistratlvo reor
ganization of the Interstate commerce
commission along the lines embodied
In tho bill recently passed by the
house of representatives and now
awaiting action by the senate, In or
der that tho commission may be en
abled to deal with tho many great
and various duties now devolving
upon it with a promptness nnd thor
oughness which are with Its present
constitution nnd means of action prac
tically Impossible.
"2. Tho establishment of an eight
hour day ns tho legal basis alike of
work and of wages In the employ
ment of all railway employes who are
actually engaged in tho work of op
erating trains in Interstate transpor
tation. "3. The authorization of tho ap
pointment by the president of a small
body of men to observe the actual re
sults In experience of the adoption of
tho eight-hour day in railway trans
portation alike for the men nnd for
the railroads; Its effects In the mat
ter of operating costs, In the applica
tion of tho existing practices and
agreements to tho new conditions and
In all other practical aspects, with the
provision that the Investigators shall
report their conclusions to the con
gress at the earliest possible date,
but without recommendation as to
legislative action, In order that the
public may learn from an unpreju
diced source Just what actual devel
opments have ensued.
"4. Tho approval by the congress
of tho consideration by the interstate
commerce commission of an increase
of freight rates to meet such addi
tional expenditures by the railroads
as may havo been rendered necessary
by the adoption of tho eight-hour day,
and which havo not been offset by
administrative readjustment and eco
nomics, should the factH disclosed Jus
tify tho Increase.
"G, Amendment ot tho existing fed
eral statute which provides for the
mediation, conciliation and arbitra
tion of such controversies as tho pres
ent by adding to it a provision that
In case tho methods of accommoda
tion now provided for should fall n
full public Investigation of tho merits
of every such dlsputo shall be Insti
tuted and completed beforo a strike
or lockout may lawfully bo attempted.
"And, sixth, the lodgment In tho
hands of the executive of tho power,
in the case of military necessity, to
take control of such-portions and such
rolling stock of tho railway! of the
country as may bo required for mili
tary use and to opornto-thrni for mili
tary purposes, wIUi authority, to draft
Into the military servlco of tho United
States such train crews and adm'lnls
irativo offlcals ns the crcunibtance.s
requre for their safe and efficient use.
''This last suggestion 1 make be
cause Wo cannot In. any circumstances
suffer tho nation to be hampered In
tho essential matter of national do
fense. "Almost tho entire riillltary' force
The Right Idea. '
"Do you think you could serve a,
seyen-course dinner?" i
"Yes, mum," replied. ,tho applicant,
"Well, whero would you Btart
from?"
"I'd start from tho kitchen, mum."
"How does Bobbs' Binall boy como
to be regarded as such a wonder of
intelligence?"
"By adopting tho method of numer
ous grown-ups. He Is constantly dis
covering 'problems' whoso answer no
body knows."
of tho nation Is stationed upon tne
Mexican border o guard our terri
tory against hostile raids. It muutbs
supplied, nnd steadily supplied, with
whatever it needs for Its maintenance
and efficiency. If It should bo neces
sary for purposes of national defense
to transfer any portion of It upon
short notice to Bomo other part ottht
country, for reasons now unforsccn,
nmplo means of transportation must
bo available and nvnlnble 'without do
lay. The power conferred in this mat
ter should be carefully nnd explicitly
limited to cases of military necessity,
but In nil such cases It should bo
clear and nmple.
"There Is one other thing we should
do If we are true champions of arbi
tration. Wo should make all arbitral
awards judgments by record ot a
court of law In order that their inter
pretation and enforcement may He,
not with ono of the parties to tho ar
bitration, but with an Impartial and
authoritative tribunal.
"Thcso things 1 urge upon you, not
in haste or merely as a means of
meeting the present emergency, but
as permanent and necessary additions
to tho law of the land, suggested In
deed by circumstances we had hoped
never to see, but Imperative as well
as Just, if such emergencies are to bo
prevented In tho future. I feel that
no extended argument ts needed to i
commend them to your favorable con-
slderatlon. They demonstrated them- J
selves. The time nnd tho occasion
only give emphasis to their mpor
tance. We need them now and we
shall continue to need them."
MANAGERS' PROPOSALS.
Bosses Have Scheme, but Somehow it
Don't Seem to Suit Workers.
Wo propose, however, as a basi3 ot
settlement, tho following:
(a) The railroads will, effective on
Sept. 1, 1016, keep the time of all the
men represented In this movement on
an 8-hour basis, and by separate ac
count monthly with each man main
tain a record of the difference be
tween tho money actually earned by
him on tho present basis and ih
amount lie would have earned upon
an 8-hour basis overtime on each
basis to be computed pro rata. Tho
amounts so shown will be subject to
tho decision of tho commission pro
vided for in paragraph (c) of this
memorandum and payable In money
as may bo directed by said commis
sion in Its findings and decisions.
(b) Tho Interstate Commerce Com
mission to supervise tho- keeping of
thoso accounts, and report the In
creased cost of tho 8-hour basis, after
such period ot actual experience as
their Judgment approves pr the pres
ident may fix, not, however, less than
three months.
(e) In view of tho far-reaching con
sequences of tho declaration made by
tho president accepting the S-hour
day, not only upon the railroads and
the clnBaes of labor involved directly
In thlB controversy, but to the pub
lic nnd upon all Industry, It seems
plain that before the existing condi
tions are changed the whtilo subject,
in so far as It affects tho railroads
and their employes, should be Investi
gated and determined by a commis
sion to be nppointcd by the president,
to bo of such standing as to compel
attention and respect to Its findings.
The Judgment of such a commission
would bo a helpful basis for adjust
ment? with labor and such legisla
tion as Intelligent public opinion, so
Informed, might demand,
Tho railroads will accept the find
ings of such a commission upon the
issue of an S-hour basis of pay as com
pared with tho present basis, as well
as upon any other matters now In
controversy that may bo submitted
to It by either party.
Tho commission should consist of
not less than five members and should
also bo authorized to hear and deter
mine all questions that may arise In
tho application of the findings of snld
commission or In the worklnc out
of such plan as it may propose.
iiio presidents of tho railroads aro
prepared to continue negotiations on
tho subject with genuine nnxloty with
in the limits of their conviction abovo
expressed to find a solution of tho
situation.
MECHANICS MAY ALSO STRIKE
21 Roads Face Threatened Trouble
With Shopmen Who Ask for
Eight-Hour Day.
Bloomlngton, III. Tho Chicago &
Altun and 21 other largo Western
raiiroaus, inoludlng the Missouri Pa
cific, Frisco nnd the M K. & T., aro
not only facing a strike of trainmen
and englnemoii, but SO.00O employes
of tho mechanical departments are
.preparing to tnko a strike ballot on
Sept. 9 If neeotlatlnnii f.-iii win. h
officials for n flat Increase of 5 cents
and an eight-hour day.
Some of the Northwest roads have
slgnnd vfi for tho Increase, but slnci
then tho eight-hour demand hns como
up and will bo submitted to all tho
roaus concerned.
-Compunction.
"Don't you think that
spoko disrespectfully of tho American 1
nut, outsui 10 no asnamed?" l
"Yes," said Miss Cavennp. "nut nni
as much ashamed as tho crowd of i
anic-bodied men that stood and lis
tened in patience," '
Out of Dafe.
,1'When I was a young man of your
nge, my son, I bad to. paddle my own
canoe,'
"I know, father,, but that was beforo
motor boats wore Invented."
OF
Receives Senator James and
Committee at Shadow Lawn.
ACCEPTS WITH GRATITUDE
President Sets Forth "Failures" of Re.
publicans and Achievements of
Democrats Defends His For
eign and Mexican Pollc(-s.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept. J. Presi
dent Wilson received today nt Shadow
Lawn, the summer White House, tho
formal notification of his rcnomluatlon
by the Democratic party from the noti
fication committee headed by Senator
Olllc James.
In response Sir. Wilson spoke In
part ns follows:
Senator James, Gentlemen of tho
Notification Committee, Fellow Citi
zens: I cannot nccept tho leadership
and responsibility which the National
Democratic convention has again, In
such generous fashion, asked mo to
accept without first expressing my
profound gratitude to the party for
the trust It reposes in me nfter four
yenrs of fiery trial In the midst ot af
fairs of unprecedented dllllculty, nnd
tho kccn,senso of added responsibility
with which this honor fills (I had al
most said burdens) me as I think of
the great Issues of national life nnd
policy Involved In the present nnd im
mediate future conduct of our govern
ment. I shall seek, as I havo always
sought, to justify the extraordinary
confidence thus reposed in me by striv
ing to purge my heart and purpose of
every personal and of every mislead
ing party motive nnd devoting every
energy I have to the service ot tho na
tion us a whole, praying thnt I may
continue to have the counsel and sup
port of nil forvvnrd-looklng men nt ev
ery turn of tho dilllcult business.
For I do not doubt that the people
of tho United States will wish tho
Democratic party to continue In con
trol of the government. They are not
In tho habit of rejecting those who
havo actually served them for thoso
who are ranking doubtful nnd conjec
tural promises of service. Least of
nil are they likely to substitute thoso
who promised to rendsr them particu
lar services nnd proved false to that
promlso for those who have actually
rendered those very services.
Republican "Failures" Cited.
The ltcpubllcan party was put out
of power because of failure, practical
failure and moral failure t because it
hod served special Interests nnd not
tho country at large; because, under
tho Jeadcrshlp of Its preferred nnd es
tablished guides, of those who still
malio Its choices, It had lost touch
with the thoughts and the needs of tho
nation and was living In a past ago
and under a fixed Illusion, the Illusion
of greatness. It had framed tariff
laws based upon a fear of foreign
trade, n fundamental doubt ns to
Amerlcun skill, enterprise, nnd capa
city, and a very tender regard for the
profitable privileges of those who hud
gained control of domestic markets
nnd domestic credits; and yet had en
acted antitrust laws which hampered
tho very things they meant to foster,
which were stiff and Inelastic, nnd In
part unintelligible. It hud permitted
Hie country throughout the long period
f Its control to slugger from one
financial 'crisis to another under tho
operation of a national bunking law
of Its own framing which made strin
gency and panic certain mid the con
trol of the larger business operations
of tho country by the hankers of a
few reserve centers Inevitable; had
made as If It meant to reform the law
hut had faint-heartedly fulled in tho
attempt, because It could not bring it
self to do tho ono thing necessary to
make the reform genuine and effec
tual, namely, brcul: up the control of
small groups of Imnkers. It hud been
oblivious, or Indifferent, to the fact
that the farmers, upon whom the coun
try depends for Its food and in the
last analysis for Its prosperity, were
without standing In the mailer of
commercial credit, without the protec
tion of standards In their market
transactions, nnd without systematic
'knowledge of the markets themselves;
that tho laborers of the country, the
great army of men who man the In
dustries It was tirufessIiiK to father
and promote, carried their labor ns u
mere commodity to imirkct, were sub
ject to restraint by novel nnd drastic
process In the courts, wero without as
surance of compensation for Industrial
accidents, without federal assistance
In accommodating lnbor disputes, nnd
without national aid or advice In find
Ing the places and the Industries In
which their labor was most needed.
The country had no national system
of road construction and development.
Ltttlo Intelligent nttentlon was pnld
to the nrmy, and not enough to tho
nuyy. The other republics of America
distrusted us, because they found that
wo tlniught first of tho profits of
American Investors mul only ns un af
terthought of Impartial Justice and
helpful friendship. Its policy wus pro
vlucial In all things ; Its purposes wero
out of harmony with the temper and
purpose of tho people nnd the timely
development of tho nntlnn's Interests.
So things stood when the Democrat
ic party came Into power. How do
they stund now? Alike In the domes
tic field nnd In (he wldij field of the
commerce of the world, American busi
ness and life and Industry havo been
scl free to move as they never moved
before.
What Democrats Have Done.
The tariff has been revised, not on
the principle of repelling foreign
trade, but upon tho principle of en
couraging It, upon something like u
footing of equality with our own In
respect of the terms of competition,
mul a tariff board has been created
whose function It will bo to keep the
relations of American with foreign
business mul Industry under constant
observation, for the guldauee of our
business men and of our congress.
American energies nre now directed
towards the markets of tho world.
The laws against trusts have been
clarified by definition, with u view
to making it plain thnt they were not
directed against big business but only
ngnlnjt unfnlr business uu tiio pre
tense of competition where there wns
none; nnd n trade commission hns
been crented with powers of guidance
and accommodation which hnve re
lieved business men of unfounded
fears and set them upon tho road of
hopeful nnd confident enterprise.
By tho federal reserve net the sup
ply of currency at the disposal of ac
tive business lias been rendered clas
tic, taking Its volume, not from n fixed
body of investment securities, but
from tho liquid assets of dally trade.
Effective measures have been taken
for the re-crentlon of un American
merchant marine nnd the revival of
the American carrying trade.
Tho Interstate commerce commis
sion has been reorganized to enable
It to perform Its great and Important
functions more promptly nnd more ef
ficiently. We hnve created, extended
nnd Improved the servlco of the par
cels post.
For the farmers of the country we
havo virtually created commercial
credit, by menus of the federal reserve
act nnd tho rural credits act. They
now have the standing of other busi
ness men in the money market. We
huvo successfully regulated specula
tion In "futures" and established
stnndnrds In the marketing of grains.
By an Intelligent wnrehouse act we
have assisted to make the standnrd
crops available ns never before both
for systematic marketing and ns a
security for loans from tho banks.
For Labor and Children.
The worklngmcn of America have
been given a veritable emancipation,
by tho legal recognition of a man's
lnbor ns part of bis life, and not a
mere marketable commodity; by ex
empting labor organizations from proc
esses of the courts which treated their
members like fractional parts of mobs
and not like accessible and responsi
ble Individuals; by releasing our sen
men from Involuntary servitude; by
making ndequoto provision for com
pensation for Industrial accidents; by
providing suitable machinery for me
diation and conciliation In Industrial
disputes; and by putting the federal
department of Labor nt the disposal of
the worklngmnn when In search of
work.
We have effected tho emancipation
of the children of the country by re
leasing theni from hurtful labor. We
have Instituted a system of national
nld In the building of highroads such
as the country has been feeling after
for a century. We have sought to
equalize taxation by means of un
equitable Income tax. We have taken
the steps that ought to have been
taken nt the outset to open up the re
sources of Alaska. We havo pro
vided for national defense upon n
scale never before seriously proposed
upon the responsibility of an entire
political party. We havo driven the
l riff lobby from cover nnd obliged it
to substitute solid argument for pri
vate Influence.
Foreign Policy Stated.
In foreign affairs we have been
guided .by principles clearly con
ceived nnd consistently lived up to.
I'crhnps they have lint been fully com
prehended because thoy have hitherto
governed International affairs only In
theory, not In practice. They are sim
ple, obvious, easily stated, and funda
mental to American Ideals.
We have been neutral not only be
cause It was the fixed and traditional
policy of the United States to stand
aloof from tho polities of "Europe and
because we had no part either ot ac
tion or of policy in the Inlluenres which
brought on the present wnr, hut also
because it was manifestly our duty to
prevent, If It were possible, the Indefi
nite extension nf the fires of hate and
desolation kindled hy that terrible con
lllct mul seek to serve mankind by re
serving our strength and our resources
for the anxious mid dilllcult days of
restoration and healing which 'must
follow, when peace will lmv to build
its house anew.
The rights of our own citizens of
course became involved; that was In
evitable. Where they did this was our
guldhH principle : ttmt property rights
cim be vindicated by claims for dam
ages when the war Is over, mid no mod
ern nation can decline to nrbltrnto
such clnlms; but the fiiiidnm-ntnl
rights of humanity cannot ho. The loss
of life Is Irreparable. Neither can di
rect violations of n nation's sovereign
ly uwnlt vindication In suits for (.'mil
ages. As to Mexico.
While Europe wus at wur our own
continent, one of our own neighbors,
was shaken by revolution, Iu that
matter, too, principle was plain nnd It
was imperative that wo should live up
to it If wo were to deserve tho trust of
any real partisan of the right as freo
men see It. Wo havo professed to be
lieve, and we do believe, that thu peo
ple of small ami weak states have the
right to expect to bo dealt with exact
ly as tho people of big and powcifu'
states would be. Wo have acted upon
Hint prlnclplo In dealing with the peo
pic of Mexico.
Our recent pursuit of bandits into
Mcxlcnn territory was no violation ol
that principle. Wo ventured to ontel
Mexican territory only because there
wero no military forces In Mexico thai
could protect our border from hostlH
attack and our own people from vio
lence, and wo have committed thcr
no single act of hostility or Interfer
ence even with the sovereign authority
of the republic of Mexico herself.
Many serious wrongs against the
property, many irreparable wrongi
against the persons, of Americans have
been committed within tho territory ol
Mexico herself during this confusec
revolution, wrongs which could not Ik
effectually checked so long us there
wus no constituted power In Mexico
which wus In a position to check them
Wo could not act directly In thnt mat
ter ourselves without denying Mexi
cans the right to any revplutlon nt nil
which disturbed us and making the
emancipation of her own people nwiiH
our own Interest and convenience.
Problems of Near Future.
' The future, the Immediate future,
will bring us squarely fnce to face with
tunny great and exacting problems
which will search us through und
through whether we bo able and readj
to play the port In the world that wt
mean to play.
There must be n Just and scttloi
peace, and we here in America must
contribute the full force ot our en
thusiasm and of our authority as o
nation to the organization of thai
peace upon world-wide foundation!
that cannot easily be sVinken. No na
tion should bo forced to take sides In
any quarrel In which Its own honor
anil Integrity and the fortunes of lti
own people are not Involved; but no
nation can any longer remain neutral
ns against any willful disturbance oi
tho pence of the world.
Ono of the contributions we musl
mnke to tho world's peace Is this;
Wo must see to It that the people in
our Insular possessions are treated
In their own lands ns we would treul
them hero, and make tho rule of tin
United States mean the same thlni
everywhere the same Justice, tin
same consideration for the essentlnl
rights of men.
Besides contributing our ungrudg
Ing moral and practical support to the
establishment ot pence throughout tin
world we must actively and Intelli
gently prepare ourselves to do our full
service In the trade and Industrj
which are to sustain and develop the
life of the nations In the days to come
We have already been provident lc
this great matter and supplied our
selves with the Instrumentalities ol
prompt adjustment. We hnve created
In tho federal trade commission, t
means of Inquiry und of nccommodn
tion In the field of commerce whlcfc
ought both to co-ordlnute the enter
prises of our traders and manufac
turers and to remove tho barriers ol
misunderstanding nnd of n too tech
nical Interpretation of the law. Ir
the now tnrlff commission we hnve
added another Instrumentality of ob
servation and adjustment which prom
ises to bo immediately serviceable.
We hnve already formulated and
agreed upon a policy of law which
will explicitly remove the ban now
supposed to rest upon co-operatloc
amongst our exporters In seeking and
securing their proper plnce In the
mnrkets ot tho world. The field will
bo free, the Instrumentalities at hand.
At home nlso we must sec to It thai
the men who plan nnd develop and di
rect our business enterprises shall en
Joy definite and settled conditions ol
law, a policy accommodated to the
freest progress. We have set the Jusl
and necessary limits. Wo have put
all kinds ot unfair competition undet
the ban and penalty of the law. Wt
have barred monopoly. These fatal
and ugly things being excluded, we
must now quicken action and facili
tate enterprise by every Just meant
within our choice. There will he
peace In the business world, and, with
peace; revived confidence nnd life.
We ought both to husband nnd tc
develop our natural resources, our
mines, our forests, our water power
I wish we could have made more prog
ress than we have Hindu In this vital
matter.
We must hearten and quicken the
spirit nnd efficiency of labor through
out our whnlo Industrial system by
everywhere mid ln all occupations do
ing Justice to the laborer, not only by
paying a lllng wage, lint also bj
making nil the conditions that sur
round labor what they ought to he.
We must co-ordinate tho ritllwn
systems of the country for national
use, nnd must facilitate and promote
their development with n view to that
co-orillnatlon and to their bettet
adaptation ns a whole to the life uml
trade anl defense of tho nullon. The
life and Industry of the country can
bo free and unhampered only if these
arteries nre open, efficient, mid com
plete. Thus shull wo stand ready to meet
the future as circumstance and Inter
national policy effect their unfolding,
whether the changes come slowly or
come fast and without preface.
Not for Her.
"I have here," said the gentlemanly
agent, "a washing machine, which Is
so simple that a child can operate
It. With It you can do your own wash
ing mid thus savo ttio money which
you now pay a laundress. I nm sell
ing this machine ut tho extremely low
prlco ot"
"Never mind the price," Interrupted
tlie commuter's wife. "I wouldn't tnke
the miichlno ns a gift. It's so .lone
some out here that I don't see n soul
from one week's end to another ex
cept tho woman who comes every Mou
day to do my washing, and now you
want to deprive mo of bCr society,
Oo awuy before J set the dog on yowl"
CAPTURED BY WE
GREAT CITY OF HANGCHOW,
CHINA, IS MODERNIZED.
Completely Transformed, Largely by
the Advent of American Busi
ness Firms Danger of Its Go
ing Ahead Too Quickly.
The visitor to Iliingchuw 000 yearB
ago could well have been surprised.
Silk-clad gentry rode through tlie
paved streets In mugnlflcent curriages,
drawn by the finest of horses, or flout
ed on the placid waters of beautiful
West lake Iu great barges, with beau
tiful singers and graceful dancers to
while away the hours, and silver and
choice nnpery on tuhles to which were
brought (he delicacies of tlie known
world. Thousands of bridges crossed
myriad canals and the emperor's pal
aco wus the grandest in the world.
Three thousand huths, accommodating
n quarter million of people, catered to
the desire for cleanliness.
Paper money passed freely, the
births of children were recorded by
the state, dead bodies were cremated,
and the wealthy visitor, on arriving
nt his hotel, wus compelled to register
his name before being shown to his
luxuriously upholstered bedroom. A
census of the entire city wus kept by
the painting of tho names over the
house doors.
Today the office of n great sowing
machine company occupies a place on
the once famous Great street; British
American tobacco has taken the plnce
of opium since 8,000 opium pipes were
burned in a single bonfire; und the
Stnndnrd Oil company is preparing to
sell motor spirit Instead of kerosene,
nfter a short but decisive battle with
the Mazda globe.
I saw the first carriage that modern
residents have ever seen in Hangchow.
It was very populur for several weeks,
hut It wus almost Immediately pushed
Into second plnce by the advent of an
automobile. From ricksha to carriage,
and from carriage to motor enr was
the change of a single month. Both
carriage and motor car were shipped
in by rail or canal, for although one
can go from Hangchow to Shanghai In
a .10-mlle-iin-hour express, he cannot
drive In a carriage between the two
cities under any circumstances.
Foreign goods nre appearing in
shops once the finest In the world.
Many 'of tho men are already wearing
western dress nnd even a few of tho
women occasionally wear new world
fushlons. With its loss of orlentul
character, Hangchow Is gaining In
wealth und Importance. Tho great
fan shop, patronized by pilgrims from
the four corners of China's vast do
main, benrs on Its walls certificates of
excellence from the expositions of Eu
rope and America. The simple but
keen-minded Chinese are coming Into
constant contact with tho foreigner.
Last spring I watched the progress of
a party of wealthy foreigners from
Shanghai down the newly paved street
Into the newly built hotel district. Ono
of the ladles not only attracted my
attention, but that of many of the po
lite Chinese as well. Her carmlnedi
lips held n cigarette and her crossed
legs displayed the lutest style of sheer
hose.
The Chinaman knows Ids place. He
never presumes. But many of them
already prefer foreign wives to
women from their own race. Western
culture Is pervading this beautiful city,
which has so far only been Influenced
by the missionary class. Hangchow's
beauty threutens to spoil her. Muy
nard Owen Wllllnms In World Cul
ture. One of the Family.
Mrs. West was on the street car ono
day when one of the passengers suf
fered un accident. Tho conductor took
the names of tho witnesses, but Mrs.
West, to avoid being summoned to
court, gave a fictitious name and ud
dress. Thu next morning her colored cook
ventured the remark that "that man
musta been hurt mighty had yester
day.'' "Oil, were you on the car, Miranda?"
asked her mistress. "I didn't see you."
"Vaas'm, I was settln' right behind
you."
"Well, Miranda, hopo they didn't get
your name, for I couldn't spare you to
go to court."
"Oil, no'm ; I didn't give 'em my right
name. They'll never find me.''
"What did you tell them?" usked
Mrs. West, wondering how fur Miran
da's Imagination had led her.
"Well'm, I heard you say 'Mrs. Hnw
klns,' so I sez 'Miss Hawkins.' "Har
per's Magazine.
Grim Fun.
Frederick I'nlmer, the wnr corre
spondent, said nt n dinner In Now
York: "Olrls all over England aro
making ammunition now. Lady Slary
Hamilton, Miss Nancy Cuniird, Lndy
Diana Manners nil these lovely girls
nre milking ammunition.
"They hay a girl was. talking ono
day at a tea about her ammunition
factory work.
"'Oh,' sho said, 'it's Just as easy
as anything to make n hlgh-exploslvo
shell, Vou take a tahlcspoontul of ni
troglycerin, two cupfuls of guncotton,
half a cupful of trinitrotoluol, threo
cupfuls of lyddite, nnd so on, Just like
the rook books, you know." "
Precaution.
"I nm no sentimentalist I nm a
man of deeds nnd few words. Will
you mnrry me, Mabel?"
"First, let me havo a look at the
deeds."
