THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1!90
A1 Democratic journal, devoted to Local and 6cneral Ncev, Literature, Scicncc, Igriculture, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLPAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916 NUMBER 47
Judge Dawkins
Replies to Senator
Harper's Attack
[( Ad ver tiwel t ]
Ruston, La., Sept. 2, 1916.
Editor Colax ( Chronicle:
There appeared in the Dodson Times
under date of Sptenmber 1st an article
under the signature of Senator S. J.
Harper, of Winnfield. praising Judge
Roberts, and reflecting on rne. The
author of this article starts out by say
ing: "For over ten years Judge Rob
erts has been one of the foremost leg
islators of this State." I admit that
Judge Roberts has been a legislator of
this State for the past ten years, but
it will take more than the assertion of
the Senator to prove that he has been
one of the foremost.
The fact that he has sptnt so much
of his time in recent years in the Leg
islature, coupled with the further fact
that he has never been Judge of any
Court prior to the time that he was ap
pointed to the Court of Appeal by Gov
ernor Hall, is sufficient evidence to
convince the average individual that
Judge Roberts is not qualified either
by study or training to hold that im
portant place and pass judgment on
the acts of District Judges, many of
whom have spent years in the study of
law and upon the bench.
Senator Harper refers to two deci
sions which were rendered by me while
judge, by which he attempts to show
Mr. Roberts' superiority to me in legal
learning and to further show that my
inclination as a judge has been towards
corporations instead of towards indi
viduals.
The first case to which he refers is
that of a negro named Davenport, who
brought suit through his attorney,
Judge Roberts, in my court to recover I
es for injuries done to him on
of the Dubach Lumber
Mrs. E.~d the demand of 1
dria, came up Frou- ' the evidence i
convincs me that he was drunk on co
caine and was responsible for his own r
injury. I believe in fairness, even to
corporations and that they, hke other 4
litigants, should not .be charged with
injuries for which they are not re- I
sponsible. The Supreme Court revers
ed this case, but it never came again
to the court. Why, I do not know.
Perhaps Senator Harper can say.
The other case referred to was the
case of Carter vs. Dubach Lumber Co.
for danrages done him in the mill. In
this case I gave judgment in favor of
Carter for $2500.00. I saw the man,
examined his wounds, and reached the
conclusion that l$500U.0') would do jus
tice between him and the lumber com
pany. The Supreme Court did not have
the opportunity of se(ing and examin
ing the man's wour:d's as I did, but
they increased the damages to $.5000.00.
Both courts held that the L aintiff was
entitled to damages, and it was not a
matter of reversal of my court, but
simply the difference as to what- the
Supreme Court and myself considered
just compensation in the matter.
The Senator's article gives me the
first information that Judge Roberts
was an attorney for the plaintiff in the
last case mentioned. The records show
that Messrs. Clayton & Hawthorn were
the attorneys for Carter. This can be
seen at page 239 in the 113 La. report.
The obvious purpose of the Senator
in referring to these decisions is to
make the public believe that I have fa
vored corporations in preference to in
dividuals in suits before my court. If
he will take the pains to examine the
Stope Chills And ever
When you are all run down and the chills and fever grip
GUARANTEED you every other day take Osidinc. It will dmtse the IRand w itiMeastm
malaria out of your system and make you well and strong. LecuedI; Tam
No more headaches, constipation, billiousness and lassitude. The 'ehns Drug C..
Oxidine is guaran- Oxidine dos away with aH these. It rids you of Malaria. W.o. T. .a
tr·v SNr--l orah+
teed. This is an iron- y h, O.,,dn h.asr.e
clad guarantee. If ,.nic hillr m -lh-,. i
Oxidioc does not stop Z" Ae., t da e.a
the wont case of ma- Those who live in malarial countries- are apt to have sos I p atr.wuo o.
Iaria return all empty malaria. Oxidinc will ward it Wo. Taken once a week d atY .'th '  no Fsu.
bottles to our drug- it will keep the bowels open, the kidJncs and liver work- -el . 1,he ha. Ian
gist and you will re- ing right and make your blood run fast and red-puts the ."' 1ja hip
-eive full Purchase flash in your eye. Oxidine is a wonderful tonic and pre- Y... ahe.ery tm u.s..
ie ull Purcentive. Try a bottle, Fifty cears at all druggists. urias Yd(t, an. e.
Pric. The BEHRENS DRUG CO., - Wac0, Teams J. . FIELDING
--s
State Auditor's Report on Grant Parish School Funds.
STATE OF LOUISIANA
OFFICE OF
SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
BATON ROUGE. LA.
SEPTEMBER 4, 1916.
Hon. J. H. McNeely, President.
Grant Parish School Board,
Colfax, La.
DEAR SIR:
The quarterly audit of Superintendent J. N. Warner'gaccounts for the pe
riod ending June 30, 1916, found the vouchers satisfactory and the following
amounts as shown by the reports correct:
GENERAL ACCOUNT.
Balance on hand April 1. 1916 ....................................... $19,849 71
Receipts during the quarter.................... ........ .......... .. 6,736 65
Total to be accounted for ... ... ....... .................. 26,586 36
Disbursements during the quarter ......................................... 19.837 53
N et balance June 30, 1916 ........................................... 6,748 83
VERDA BOND SALE.
Balance on hand April 1. 1916 ........................................ ..... ......... $ 162 21
No receipts or disbursements during the quarter.. .......... ......... 000 00
Net balance June 30, 1916 ........... .......... ................ 162 21
COLFAX BOND SALE.
Balance on hand April 1, 1916 ............... .................. ................ $ 6,175 46
Disbursements during the quarter ................ ............. ................ 625 45
Net balance June 30, 1916 ....................................... 5,550 01
POLLOCK BOND SALE.
Balance on hand A pril 1, 1916 ..................................................... $21,764 18
R eceipts during the quarter......................................................... 63 00
Total to be accounted for ......................................... 21,827 18
Disbursem ents during the quarter........................................... 8,294 50
Net balance June 30, 1916 .............. ............ ........... 13.532 68
Mr. Warner's vouchers are returned to him by to-day's express, and for his
information copy of this letter is also sent him.
Yours very truly,
W. N. McFARLAND,
Supervisor of Public Accounts.
reports of the cases that have gone
from my court to the Supreme Court, I
he will find ample evidence to show j
that there have been cases decided both i
for and against corporations and both <
for and against individuals. It is not I
impossible that a corporation may come I
into court with a just cause. In that
case they should have judgment It is
not impossible that an individual may
come into court with a bad cause. In
that event judgment should go against I
him.
Since it is one of the objects of Sena- I
tor Harper's article to line me up with
corporations, I call his attention to Act
No. 20 of the Acts of Legislature of
1914, which bears the name of Judge
Roberts as one of the authors thereof, I
and I ask him where in all the history
of legislation in Louisiana or among the
repbrts of Supreme Court will he find
a greater degree of favoritism shown
to corporations and employers than is I
shown in this act of 1914, which Mr.
Roberts was instrumental in eiiacting
into a law. The whole tendency of this 1
piece of legislation is to restrict the
amount of damages which an injured
party may recover from his employer
for an injury done through the care
lessness of the employer. As an illus
tration of the correctness of this as
sertion, a common lab:;rer who loses
both hands, or both arms, or both feet,
or both eyes may recover from the em
ployer responsible for his injury about
$2500.00. Under the law as it previous
ly existed the courts compensated such
losses in sums ranging from $500.00
to $16,000.00, Indeed, there is a case
decided in recent years where an indi
vidual obtained from a railroad $17,000
for the loss of one arm only.
In his article the Senator says: "In
a very large number of cases the Su
preme Court has reversed Judge Daw
ins." This statement is not true.
Fifty civil cases went from my court
to the Supreme Court while I was
judge. Forty of these cases were af
firmed, making a record for me of 80%
of cases affirmed. If the Senator will
take the pains to inquire, he will find
that few district judges have this per
centage of their cases affirmed. In the
cases that went to the Court of Appeal
and in criminal cases the percentage
of cases that were affirmed was even
greater than 80'.
The Senator says: "Judge Roberts
has never been reversed in any manner
of respect." Let the Senator be a lit
tle more definite. It is possible to make
such an assertion, but as a matter of
fact Judge Roberts may never have
had a case before any court to be re
versed. Let him say that Judge Rob
erts has had one, two, or a dozen cases
affirmed. Then we will understand
what he means. Judge Roberts has
been on the bench so short a time and
the percentage of cases which may be
appealed from that court is so small
that it is very probable that no case of
his has been before the Supreme Court,
either for affirmance or reversal.
The Senator comes with a certificate
of character from Judge Blanchard for
Judge Roberts. Why did he not state
that the case for which Judge Blanch
ard lauded Judge Roberts so highly
was one in which Judge Blanchard's
client got judgment at the bands of
Judge Roberts. Ever since the days
of Shylock the party winning a judg
ment at the hands of a judge has felt
like crying: "Oh! Most Righteous
J udge!"
In conclusion permit me to say that
I with the people of this district it is a
matter of no concern as to whether Mr.
I Roberts or I should be disappointed in
Sdeeat. The question with them is,
which man is more able to render them
efficient service in the Court of Appeal,
HREVEPORT,
NOV.1-2-5-A-ba', 1916 .
OUI L LS'SfE
SBI( DAY~l"S CEAT ANAL D 6
TIPILLINO SUIYATI
AEPOPLANE Aw. ,zs3. AS idamnw.
S$16,00 RENIUMS' ,*
JOHNNY J. JONES AUCTION dMLE OT
o 16 $SHOWY ON SW AND CATLEU
6.ADwY NOV. 1 . 2 .), 41.
W ONCT F CA TIIAViAL ROsGN MNE
. EXURSION S ON ALL RAILROAD$I
i e' WRIT FOX? CATAL OGUI PO. BOX OO LOUI.J1 IREGGER/IRF,,'f,
regardless of how much either of us
should desire to be elected.
Judge Roberts has about served out
the time for which he was appointed.
The people had no say in his appoint
ment. This is the first opportunity
they have had to speak as between
him and any other applicant for that
position. There were at the time of
his appointment district judges and able
lawyers seeking the place, but Govern
or Hall passed these by and conferred
the appointment on his private secre
tary, who, at the time, had never seen
service on the bench, and was not even
practicing law.
R. B. DAWKINS.
Fair Warning to a Fanatic.
Will the fanatical person who pock
eted that bottle of $2 whisky return
it at once to the editor of the Northern
News with apologies for attempting to
perpetrate a joke? Otherwise there
will be criminal proceedings.-Fromn
the Athabasca Northern News.
Head Off That All Winter Cough.
At the first sign of sore throat, tight
chest or stuffed-up head take a dose of
Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey. The heal*
ing pine tar, soothing honey and gly
cerine quickly relieve the congestion,
loosen the phlegm and break np your
cold. Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey has
all the benefits of the healing aroma
from a pine forest, it is pleasant to
take and antiseptic. The formula on
the bottle tells why it relieves colds
and coughs. At your druggist, 25c.-
Adv. -1.
Do Your Biscuits "Go Like Hot Cakes?"
=H OT biscuits for breakfast!
No word can adequately de
scribe the keen sense of sat
isfaction that perfectly baked
crispy brown, hot biscuits with
large chunks of pure, sweet but
-ter, impart, at the start of the
day. Genuine, mouth meltint
biscuits that tickle your pal
ate and make you Jook hungrily for more
can't be made from ordinary flour. You
must have high grade-perfect flour, like
Robin Red Breast Flour t =
"The Heart of the Grein Pues the Art of the Brain"
One of the best known and lar
gest Southern Mills whose staff
is composed of expert bakers,
chemists and millers, selects, tests and guaran
-tees this flour. That's why it is so popular.
Have hot biscuits for breakfast tomorrow.
They will go "like hot cakes" if you make them
from ROBIN RED BREAST FLOUR.
S People's Cash Store, Ltd.
Arkadelphia Milling Company
Arkadelphia, Ark., U. 8. A.
f FARM DEMONSTRATION WORK
B- R B. Benton, Jr.
AGENT R GRANT PARISH
Crimson Clover.
We decided last week that it
was essential to plant a winter
cover of some kind, and we also
decided that crimson clover was
one of the best we could plant,
so that a few words about how
and when and why may not be
amiss.
Plant crimson clover, because
it grows during the winter, keep
ing the land covered up and pro
tected from leaching, and be
cause it has the power of taking
nitrogen from the Bir and storing
it in ,the soil. When we buy cot
ton seed meal or nitrate of soda,
the nitrogen in those fertilizers
costs us about twenty-five cents
per pound, but when we plant
crimson clover, nitrogen costs us
so little per pound that it is diffi
cult to estimate. Experts of the
Department of Agriculture have
estimated that a good growth of
crimson clover plowed under in
the spring is equivalent to 1800
pounds of cotton seed meal put
on the soil.
However, do not expect the
best results from your crimson
clover the first year. It is adapt
ed to growth upon all of the soils
of Grant parish, but will not
grow at all unless the soil is thor
oughly inoculated. The best way
to accomplish this is to secure
the liquid inoculating material
free from .your demonstration
agent, to use this fall. Then
plant crimson clover on the same
land again next fall, and by that
time the soil will be so thorough
ly inoculated that you will have
first class results with the clover,;
and thatsame soil will be suitable
for inoculation of soils in otber
fields.
Plant crimson clover seed any
time from the first of September
to the middle of October, picking
a time when the soil has sufficient
moisture to bring up the seed at
once. Use about fifteen pounds
of seed to the acre. Secure seed
from a reliable seedsman, inocu
late thoroughly, and your results
will be good.
For further information apply
to your demonstration agent.
