OH'C STATE
UNIVERSITY
SEP1 J 1916
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
ke.
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 21
One Dollar a Year
Ys-
Emery
But Found Guilty of Assault and Battery. The Very Thing We Have Contended That He
Should Have Been Charged With Originally. Hon. Fred L. Hoffman Gave Union Labor
a "Square Deal," Something They Have Clamored for During the Past Two Years. John
V. Campbell's. Attempt to Put Four Union Men in the Electric Chair, Ends in Failure.
After all the energy of the police, the
third degree and every known means to
railroad men to the penitentiary, includ
ing the double crossing of the church,
one man was finally convicted.
Emery Teeters, charged with first de
gree murder, which was subsequently
chanced to second degree murder, was
convicted Friday of assault and battery
and that is the charge which originally
should have been made against him.
Teeters was arrested last December,
with Vincent Doty, Parker and Her
bert Doty, charged with first degree
murder. In January the prosecutor gave
a dinner at Mecklenburg's saloon to the
grand jury and Judge Geoghegan, upon
whch occasion he gloated over the mis
fortunes of these union painters and
stated "that if lie failed to convict them
out of their own mouths, he would de
vote .his entire time to putting them in
the penitentiary."
To Mr. Campbell's credit it may be
said that he has tried hard, that he has
used the influence of his office to its
iullest extent and made a complete fail
ure, because his foundation was built
upon a f ramerup to destroyunionism in
agreat deal of the time'of the court and
lias cost Hamilton County thousands of
dollars in order that the Pittsburgh
Glass Company might have the satisfac
tion of seeing a few union painters in
the penitentiary; who forced them to
pay a living wage.
All honor to. Judge Fred L. Hoffman
before whom this case was tried." His
rulings were fair and his charge to the
jury -was eminently so. Union labor got
a square deal from -this judge, a thing
they have been clamoring for -ever since
John V. Campbell has been in office.
Union labor can never pay its debt of
gratitude to Judg Huffman for resist
ing all pressure and sitting in that case
absolutely unbiased and giving both par-
tics a lair Hearing.
Emery Teeters should never have
been charged with anything but assault
and battery and John V. Campbell
should know this.
Teeters should accept this decision, as
there is no doubt of his guilt, arid leave
the sentence in the hands of Judge Fred
L. Hoffman, who is an honest man and
who will take into consideration the fact
that John V. Campbell refused to allow
this man bail and kept him for six
months confined in the work house, in
communicato so far as his friends were
concerned.
Union labor must not be restrained by
party lines, it is absolutely necessary
that every man who carries a card
should vote against the re-election of
John V. Campbell.
JUST STARTING
Speedway Workmen Arrested.
John and George Ashford and John
Wilkins, workmen at the Speedway,
were bound over to the grand jury
Thursday night by Mayor McGrew of
Sharonville, after they had waived ex
amination, on charges of assault and bat
tery, disorderly conduct, and carrying
concealed weapons. The arrests follow
an alleged attack on Special Officer
Christ. Dilg.
Cincinnati will hear from this gang of
thugs later on and the gentlemen who
promoted the Speedway will hear of lots
of robberies by the gents they brought
here to take the place of union labor.
CITIZENSHIP DENIED RIOTER.
Pittsburg, Pa., Sept. (3. Because of
his connection with the labor riots in
Braddock last May, when three men
were killed and many wounded, Steven
Milialic was refused citizenship by Judge
Charles P. Orr here today. Milialic was
indicted and convicted of inciting to riot,
but was paroled on recommendation of
he District Attorney.
Teeters
?9AjKk " HHRr "IPs
HHHUHI:: 'i:i
HON. FREDERICK li. HOFFMAN,
Who Onve Union Labor n "Square Deal" in the Teetei
OPPOSE
INJUNCTIONS.
I
Orange, N. J. At the State Federa
tion of Labor convention last week dele
gates pledged themselves to work for the
passage of a law limiting the use of in
junctions in strike cases. The conven
tion denounced the Connecticut law,
which permits the seizure of workers'
homes before judgment is secured.
President Quin and Secretary llilfers
were re-elected and, Paterson was chosen
as the next convention city.
,
PHONE GIRLS RAISE WAGES.
Boston, Mass. The Boston Telephone
Operators' Union has signed an agree
ment with the New England Telephone
and Telegraph Company, With the ex
ception of operators just out of training
school, all will receive wage increases,
ranging from ."() cents to $2 a week. Be
sides these increases, there will be
shorter hours. .
EMPLoVe&TgAIN.
STAGE
Grand Rapids, Mich. The Empress
Theater is the first to accept the wage
scale of the Stage Employes' Union,
which advanced wages $2 a week. It is
believed other theaters will take similar
action before the season opens.
imiCK MAKERS ORGANIZE,
Fort Dodge, Iowa. Wage increases
have followed the formation of a union
of workers employed in brick, tile and
terra cotta plants. Employes in the gyp
sum mines have also organized and se
cured wage increases.
Acquitted of
!!&&
Ca.se.
HAltHERS INCREASE WAGES.
T
New York. About G.000 barbers in
the southern section of this city, known
as "down town," have won a two days'
strike and increased wages $1 a week.
Officers of the Journeymen Barbers' In
ternational Union are assisting in an or
ganizing campaign, that 'will include
other sections of New' York.
Allcntown, Pa. Journeymen Barbers'
Union is enforcing its new $14 weekly
minimum wagei Every shop in the city
but two has accepted these rates.
St. Louis, Mo. Journeymen Barbers'
Union has prepared a new wage scale
which provides for a minimum of $14
a week and 00 per cent of, receipts over
$22. The work day is to 'hi limited to
12 consecutive hours, including time off
for meals.
PORTO RICANS STRIKE.
$ 4
San -Juan, UortovRico.-Cigarmakcrs
employe'd by the Porto Rican American
Tobacco Company .are. on strike for
higher wages and because the company
violated an agreement signed June i),
1!)14. This concern, known as "the
trust," has reduced wages and attempt
ed to force an agreement on employes
which would deny them the right to
strike. The workers are also asked to
contribute fifty cents a week to a so
called trade union conducted along the
lines of Rockefeller's "union" in Colo
rado, and whose treasurer is the man
ager of the cigar company.
About 0,000 cigarmakers, tobacco
strippers and other employes are af
fected by the strike.
Kg
,
The Building
Orders all Union Men Off of the Ludlow School at Lud
low, Ky., Upon the Request of the Trades and Labor
Assembly of Campbell and Kenton Counties A Large
Amount of Routine Business Transacted.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Jos. A. Cullen.
Owing to the illness of Secretary Fred
Hock, the Chair appointed Phil Gas
dorf to act as temporary secretary.
Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication was read from the
Electrical Workers No. 212, stating that
James Quinn had been elected a dele
gate to the Council. BrotherQuinn be
ing present he was duly obligated,
A communication was read from the
Trades and Labor Assembly of Kenton
and Campbell Counties, asking for the
privilege of the floor for T. J. Higgins,
Walter S. Brvan and H J. Kennedy,
.which, upon .motion, .waSifiranted. -.
' , ..-..,
JUDGE HILTA'EU IlENOMT-,
NATED.
Trinidad, Col. Rcnomination of
Granby Hillyer for judge of the Third
Judicial District indicates that the fight
for an' untainted judiciary in this State
is not yet won. Tudge Hillyer was for
merly attorney for the coal operators,
and was appointed by Governor Carlson
to his present position, which was
created by the last legislature, fudge
Hillyer heard many of the miners' cases,
but the workers finally secured an order
from the -State Supreme Court debarring
him from further consideration of these
cases.
Judge Hillver's sentence of life im
prisonment for John R. Lawson was
set aside by the State Supreme Court
rnd that unionist has been released on
bail pending a new trial. When asked
if lie had anything to say why sentence
should not be pronounced, Lawson de
nounced Judge Ilillver and his hand-
picked jury, composed of coal company
partisans.
UNIONISTS OUTWIT EMPLOYERS.
Bridgeport, Conn. Striking iron
moldcrs, whose property has been seized
by employers, have outwitted authorities
w'ho are levying on all money in sight.
Unionists not members of the Iron
Moldcrs' Union act as custodian of
strike funds and the sheriff is helpless
unless he finds the money on the person
of the strikers. To date no striker has
been found asleep.
Under the law of this State property
of workers can be attached before a
judgment is secured. In no other State
is this procedure permitted, and it is
now being used by Bridgeport founders
to discourage striking iron moldcrs. In
other States a judgment must first be
secured before property or monevs is
seized, but in Connecticut employers can,
ast one trade unionist put it, "seize the
worker's property and force him to go
to law to recover it."
.JjA-QUlNJSTS MAKE GAINS.
Torbnto, Ontario. The Canadian
Foundry Company has abandoned its
trade union hostility- and concedes the
nine-hour day to striking machinists,
who are recognized (or the first time.
Hamilton, Ontario. The Otis-Fcnson
Company has granted the nine-hour day
with increased wages to machinists who
have been on strike for several weeks.
A government commission award was
rejected bv Hamilton employers and
their machinists struck. The latter arc
forcing employers to accept the decision.
Murder
Trades Council
for the co-operation of the Council on
the Ludlow school job. He explained
the conditions thoroughly. Brothers
Higgins and Kennedy followed him.
Upon motion, the matter went over
to good and welfare.
Subsequently the CounciJ decided to
take all their men off the job until the
matter is arranged satisfactorily to the
Trades and Labor Council of Campbell
and Kenton Counties.
The jurisdictional claims of the Slate
Roofers were read, and upon motion, the
Chair appointed Brothers Dorsey and
McHale to confer with a committee
from the Slate Roofers.
All trades reported business good.
There being no further business be-
iioreJ..therneeting, UitCouncadjpuiwdivtJi K3,';
h , , , , . ..
'LAW" SHOUTERS IN A HOLE
San Francisco, Cal. Ministers of thi
city have made public some awkward
questions they submitted to business
men at a meeting of the so-called Law
and Order Committee of the Chamber
of Commerce, who invited the clergy
men to discuss the present non-union
shop "campaign.
Because the attitude of the ministers
was misconstrued, Rev. C, S. S. Dutton
makes this statement:
"The questions asked by the ministers
present showed clearly that, while they
were for law and (jrder in the truest
sense, they were not convinced that, in
view of past records, the carrying out of
these principles should be left wholly in
the hands of the Chamber of Com
merce. "The churchmen took the attitude that
the issue was broader than merely the
labor issue of San Francisco. That a
great amount of forward-looking legis
lation, throughout the country, to es
tablish human values in industry, had
been initiated and fought for by the la
bor unions, and that the unions had
thus performed tremendous services for
the well-being of the men, women and
children in toil; while the Chambers
of Commerce of this nation, in the main,
had been for years busily engaged in
checking and opposing and retarding
these humanitarian efforts."
The ministers asked the anti-unionists
if they would agree to these three
propositions : To hereafter support the
forward-looking legislation that has al
ways been advocated by the labor or
ganizations? Would all the members of
the Chamber of Commerce pledge them
selves to conduct their business enter
prises with the same broad spirit that
has been shown by several of the indi
vidual employers among them? In their
campaign for "law and order" would the
Chamber o!i Commerce include every
illegal and disorderly condition?
"There was no disposition, to over
look the fact that there had been faults
in the actions of the labor unions,"
said Rev. Dutton. "But it was brought
out that if the labor unions were to go
on trial on their past records, so must
the Chamber of Commerce."
STRIKE IS AVERTED.
St. Paul, Minn., Sept. G. Telegraph
ers employed by the Northern Pacific
Railroad today were awarded increases
in pav, shorter hours and improved
working conditions in settlement of their
demands on the road, thus averting a
threatened strike.
