The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916
NUMBER 49
i-
fcv
k
I
-CONGRESSMAN BQOHER RETURNS
AFTER A NINE
Was a -Congress at Which Measures of
Unusual Importance Were
Made Into Law
And These Democratic Measures As
Passed Are For the Benefit of
All of the People
N
finirfiiDomnn rMiarlaci I ltnnlir f
m vvibi voanimi vwvtj . .suii -
turned this week from Washington,
where he has been continuously since
the first week in last December, when
he left here. He was steadily at
his post ever since, not once return
ing homo during the nine months'
session. Ho returned this week in
order to see his daughter, Mrs. Hlnes
of Kansas City, who with her husband
and little son left Thursday for Rio de
Janiero, Brazil, where Mr. Hlnes, who
is an electrical and mechanical con
tracting engineer, has secured some
large contracts.
Congressman Booher is looking well
and feeling the same way. He pro
poses to take an active part in the
coming campaign. Asked as to how
the work of congress had progressed
he said:
Glad to Be at Home
"After a long and arduous session
of congress, lasting over nine months,
1 am very glad to again be at home
among the people of the Fourth dis
trict and to meet my friends and give
an account of my stewardship. I shall
remaiu at homo and engage in the
campaign until just before December
first, next, when congress will again
convene.
"You ask me what I regard as the
principal achievements of the session
of congress just closed. Congress de
voted a great deal of time to the ques
tion of national defense. Appropria
tions wero made for the army and
navy sufficient to give us an army and
navy large enough for all practical
purposes. There was much diversity
of opinion upon this Important ques
tion. The extreme peace man was
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES F. BOOHER
opposed to all legislation along the
lino of national defenso; tho extreme
wilarmlst." to use a mild term, was as
.mitrh wronK In the other direction.
In tho house of representatives, we
were fortunate In having at the head
of tho committee on military affairs
a man who thoroughly understood tho
question. I refer to the Honorable
James Hay. And tho same can be sab1
of Ilonorablo L. V, Padgett of Ten
nessee, chairman of the committee on
naval affairs. Their untiring work
and labor has given to tho country a
defensive force sufficient for all prac
MONTHS' SESSION
tical purposes.
A Promise Fulfilled
"The rural credits law had been
promised the people of this country
for tho past twenty years, and nothing
tangible was produced until the last
session of congress. A committee is
now in the field investigating the dlf
fercnt communities that arc applicants
for the establishment of a farm loan
bank. I am led to believe, from what
I know of the situation, that the city
of St. Joseph stands a fair chance of
being selected as a location for one of
these banks.
"The farm loan bill, In many sec
tions of our country, will bring cheap
money to the small farmer as well as
to the large one. It was not a party
vote that adopted this bill, notwith
standing the Republican platform says
it Is a makeshift.
"The child labor law ls a long step
forward on tho part of the government
In the Interest of children. All right
minded people must certainly be in
favor of this law. This law was urged
Dy all thoughtful people who have at
heait the care, welfare and education
of the children of our land.
The Mexican Situation
"I believe the president is handling
the Mexican situation in tho best pos
sible manner. The Mexican people
have a right to work out their own sal
tation, and this, the leading republic
jf the world, ought not to begin a
var of conquest against them, but, on
the contrary, should do everything
possible to bring about a better under
itandlng between this poverty strick
n, wretched country and ours.
"The strike situation was a trouble-
lome one and tho president did the
my thing he could under tho law,
ivhlch was to refer tho whole thing to
engross, and congress responded with
emporary legislation that averted tho
itrlke. This legislation is criticized
jomowliat by Mandpat politicians, and
specially by Uip Honorable Charles
fc,. Hughes, Republican candidate for
ho presidency. He said In a speech!
on yostordny tlut he" believed that
legislation ought to bo provided to
control tho question of wages and
iours of labor, but such legislation
should not be had untllafter a thor-
ough Investigation of the question, and
1 J
that Is Just exactly what this admin
istration Is dolns. The legislation
adopted was simply temporary; an in
vestigation will be made by disinter-
ested men; a report will bo made to
congioss early in December, when leg
islation of a permanent nature will be
passed.
Three to Be Considered
"There are three parties to be con
sidered In all legislation that may be
had tending to prevent trouble be-
tween employers and employes. The
Republican candidate seems to forget
.,..,, . .lit ...
the third party entirely, i. o the peo-
. , . , . . ... , ,. ,
pie at large. To have permitted this i
..... .i.
strike to have come upon the conn-
... . , . ., )
try would have meant ruin to thou-1
, . . , , ,. . .,
sands of people and starvation in our
. ... ... . . .
large cities for the poor. Tho presl-i
i . in .i i u. ,Li i in
dent did the right thing and will re-:
, ., i . .i . .
celve the approval of the countr at
lnrKe
.,,..' . . , , .. , . .. .
"We must not overlook the fact that i
.,..,,.. i,Mi . .- .. n.,. t,
' "'. """'""'" l" """'"
niiiinlfiin linn IriDimh r: I'nnnnn inf iirl
, ,, ' . .1 um 1 1 V I'olrF off cers have tho slightest
for the str ke b 111, and only flftyfoun . , , , . .. ., .
. , , . , .1 .1 1 . chair of winning in the supreme
voted against it. I mention this ote , ..... ., ... . .
, .. , . . . .. court I think they are out and
for the purpose of showing to the peo- ( ... , , , .
, . , ' , . ,,,.,.! will remain out." Purported in-
plo at large that congress looked at it T . , .
: ... , , , . . ., , ' tcrvicw with Supreme Judge A.
from the broad plain of protection to. ,, ,, , , ,, , ,, A
...,,,,. . , ' M. Woodson in Monday afternoon
the rights of all parties concerned .
When permanent legislation is had' L, . , ,, 1 ,
A ' .. ,. , . Thf above alleged interview
upon this question, no difference what .,,,., ... .,, . .ha
... ' , , , . , ., wltl. Juds;e A. M. Woodson of the
"a" ",'" , V" b Z Z
people, the rights of the railroads and
. , , . " , , , ,
the rights of the employes will bo
carefully guaVded and protected.
The country's Kevenues
"The revenue
Din inai congress,
passed places tne ouraen 01 expenui -
. .... . .
I (. ? 4lwv n nm t nirltinttTtdiv.jk
T" "" "c -'"" """ ""' ""c"-
iney uugui lu uu. 1 ue luueiiiunct
tax ls a Just tax and was recommended
b'y Ex-President Taft when he called
congress together In April, 1909. to ,
revise the tariff downward; but they
revised it upward. The house of rep-
resentatives at that time passed the
inheritance tax without opposition and
it went to the senate and was stricken
out of the bill through the influence
of Senator Aldrich and a corporation
tav inserted in lieu of It. This bill
exempts all the estates up to 150.000
and exempts all debts that may be'
1 owed by the estates.
I
"A great deal of other Important
legislation has been had with which
the people are familiar.
Republicans Have No Issue
The Republican party has no Issue
in this campaign. It does not in its
platform or through its candidates and
speakers offer any affirmative relief
for any Imaginary evil theV pretend to
know about. It is a campaign of crit-
iclsm and dodgingr -They claim to be
the only patriotic and smart people on
earth. They do not say they would re-
peal a single law that has been passed
while President Wilson has been In
the White House and congress has
been Democratic; they simply content
themselves by saying they are a make-
shift. What they would do under like
circumstances we can only judge by
their past conduct. They would have
done nothing but permitted Wall
street to govern the country as it did
for years prier to March 4, 1913. What
they would do In Mexico they do not
say. If President Wilson's Mexican
nolicv Is wronK. why do they not sug-
gest something else? If they a're the
nniv ,w,io -im fcnnu- hnw in nntmi
the situation, and they would tell it.
thB m.nr.in wnni.i rertninU L-ive them
credit.
Wilson a Great President
"The American people realize that
no president since the days of Wash
ington has had to meet so many and
vexatious diplomatic questions as has
President Wilson, and no man could '
have been more successful than has
he. He has maintained the dignity !
and honor and credit of our nation in '
all things. Above and beyond It all, The Democratic State Campaign to
he has kept this nation out of war.1 Be Inaugurated at Joplin Next
and the opportunities presented to him Week
to plunge this nation In the contest
in Europe and in war with Mexico The Democrats of Missouri will open
were many. It took a firm hand and ' the state campaign In proper shape at
a cool brain to protect the country Joplin next Tuesday. From that time
against the calamity of war; and these on the war will be waged with unre
qualities President Wilson possessed lenting vigor. The speakers who will
to a marvelous degree. He has won ' be tho principal attraction at Joplin
every diplomatic contest grqwlng out will be VIce-Presldont Marshall and
of tho European war and won them I'nlted States Senator James A. Reed.
because his position was right. He I and there will be other noUul orators,
has earned the gratltudo and support James Cowglll, chairman of tho
of all right-thinking Americans, ahd , D mocratlc state committee, has
we are all Americans In this country numed Secretary of State Cornelius
today. No man can claim above an- Roach, Samuel Lazarus and former
other that he is an "undiluted" Amerl-1 Governor Lon V. Stephens of St. Louis
can. It ls but natural for our.nltlzons as members of the executive commtt
of foreign birth to sympathize with tee. Four members of the state com-
' their mother country. It would
, asking too much of human nature to
ask thorn to do the contrary, but in
tho final analysis the foreign born
' citizen is an Amorlcan and will stand
for tho rights of tho American citizen
on land and sea. ,
"AH Indications point to the re-oloc-
tlon of President Wilson and a Demo
cratlc congress, so the work of reform
and&iroKrcAR may go steadily onward
until all the unjust legislation of sl
toon ars during the rule of tin-
standpatter lias como to an end."
, MUST SAY SO HIMSELF
Until Judge Woodson Gives Other
Information the Public Will
Not Believe He Decides
Cases Without Hearing
. . . ,
cat horn the governor Issued on
.,,,,,.,.
the onglnal count. I decided that
. ., . .... , , .. , .
Nash was entitled to the off ce,
, ... , .
and ten had to go so far as to
. . . , , , ., ,.
put ralg in Ja II for disobeying
I , ,,,,,.,..
my orders. 1 deeded that there
. . , , , , , .
fehould bo no supersedeas while
',, ,, .
the 'ase was pending settlement
, ,. ' ....
U1 .-..- u,w .. m, u-
preme court affirmed me. So far
, , ..,,.,. i .
aS ' kI1(W' thls ls the onl' case
case I don't think the ousted
Missouri supreme court. boforP
, . , , , .. , ,, ,. , A
which tho Crandell ouster pro-
. s d
, MomUj afternoon , R St. Jogepn
paper.
t,,,!,,,. a. m. Wroodson was at
, th t t!m continf.d to his room in
- &
a St Joseph hospital recovering
from the effects of a surgical
operation. Judge Woodson's le-
fons of frjends In St. Joseph and
all ovpr uncurl cannot believe
that Judge Voodson made any
BUCh statement as the two con-
ciua,n!? sentences of the pur-
ported Interview. They cannot
brinu themselves to think that
thp udge whom an st. Joseph
aml whom an Missouri knows.
wouW determine and pass judg-
mtn, on a case tnat Was to come
Defore him judicially before he
had heard the evidence or before
it was submitted to him.
,-They cannot hejlcve that he.
above all other judges, would sive
his decision in a case which in-
volves all of the people of St. Jo-
ceph (his home city) to a news-
paper reporter and give it in ad-
vance of a hearing of the case
and only on the reports that he
may have read in hostile news-
papers or have had poured into
his ears by hostile interests or
People.
Hundreds of people in St. Jo-
seph do not like Dr. Crandell he
has hundreds of enemies, the ma-
Jority of whom were made that
way because they could not use
him but that fact does not enter
into the matter or question of
why. when Crandell has a case in
tne supreme court of the state
hp snould not nave a nlng on
,ne merits of his case.
' The people of St. Joseph, ir-
respective of their likes and dis-
"kes for Dr. Crandell. do not
nant t0 belIevp thls newspaper
interview. They do not want to
belleve that Ju,1Sp Woodson do-
fides cases before they come be-
fore him or the court oer which
he presides, and they are going
10 wait until Judge Woodson re-
c overs from his Illness and tells
them himself before they pass
judgment.
WILL OPEN TUESDAY
beiinittoo will also serve on this com-
i mltteo. Thoy are E. H. Rullock of
Kdlna; Major Lilly. Moberly; A. Mus
ser. Iloldeu: and James Ilooth or Pa
' rifle. Cowglll is ex-offlolo chairman of
the executive committee.
About 4,000 pupils
commenced
- 1 school in the rural schools of Duchan-
an County this week.
SLUG
S
SATS
WE HAVE JUDASES
And Accordingly Pays His Re
spects to the "Disloyals"
and Their Partners
AND TELLS THEM SO
IN THE VERNACULAR
He Believes that the "Terrible Scan
dal" that Candidate Hughes Has
Stirred Up Over the Firing of an
Incompetent Would Have Been
Avoided if the Said Incompetent
Had Been Given His Release Earlier
from the Government Pay Roll and
Set to Earning an Honest Living.
country publishers will fall all over
themselves in heaps in order to dis
"Say, d'ia know sometimes I won- pIay the nameB ot thoge B8if.advertI-.
der If I hadn't better reel an' see If I lng employe. whose sole object In life
ain't in bed." exclaimed Mr. Slug as ,t would 3eem from every document
Slavin, as his furtive eye glanced over ' sent t thlg ofrlce (and the ma,g aro
the rapidly arriving neighbors, and he fuU o them) is t0 advcrtige the
continued, "On th' square, if politics nameg ot tho,e who draw a galary
wasn't such a lot of bull I'd believes I from tne gtate for disseminating thie
was in a trance about half th' time. -information" and who always manage
Mere i le been for a couple of
ears wonderin' If we wouldn't be at
war with Germany or somebody else tlon" they are giving to a suffering
before mornin' broke again, wonderin' public. Here is the valuable "buzzard
how Wilson was a-goin' to keep us out dope" as sent out at state expense,
of th' European slaughter house an' but this paper omits the names of both
at th' same time make th' kaiser un- advertisers:
derstand that he'd been talkhV long A few- outbreaks of anthrax have oo
enough, an' he could now thut up an' curred in northern Arkansas. This
pull his freight, or quit blowln, up disease is usually prevalent further
passenger boats; an' a lot of Judases sou'h and seldom becomes widespread
risht here in th' cood ole LT S A in- ats far north as lt llas tnis year- An'
r gnt nere in ut good oie L. &. A., in tnrax ,s efmally as b(id as hog choiera.
stead of standin by their president an' Buzzards are likely to carry anthrax
th best country they ever knew or from northern Arkansas into Missouri.
will ever get to know, they was a-doin' Shoot the buzzards and burn them!
their blamdest for th' king an kaiser If the country publishers (the city
kind of government. Kin you beat it? dallies long ago dropped this self-
"You know I like Germans awright advertising dope) would refuse to pub
All us Irish like Germans. We can llsn- and cut out the personal adver
fight with each other an' get along tislng of such-and-such-a-man in every
better than any people you ever heard dope article sent out by these state
ot. Th' gink that thinks th' Irish an" bureau hired men, whose chief aim is
th' Dutch they don't amount to much, simply to get their names into print,
has another think a-comin' to him no matter how mediocre the "dope"
After th' Irish there ain't no better they send out may be, there would bo
people than th' Dutch. Th' only trou- less of such stuff sent to the pub
ble with thm is they have been eatin' Usher, every line of which costs him
out of th' kaiser's hand too long. If money to produce in order thai these
they'd been in Ireland like us Irish same hired men may constantly keep
fightin' for five hundred years for our their names before the public at tho
liberty, they'd be ready to kick th' expense of the taxpayers of Missouri,
kaiser in th' slats instead of fightin' Print the- article, if lt is deemed"
for him an" his kind. If they was worthy of that much space and type-a-fightin"
for their country just like setting, but drop the self-advertisers'
us Irish is always on th' job In th' names, and It is a safe proposition
Emerald Isle, I'd be for them from hell that the budding aspirations of a flock
to breakfast. of present state hired men who are
A Stiff Upper Lip pluming their wings through the medi-
Well, anvhow. while all of us in um o thls sort of free advertising,
this country has been wonderin' an' thereb- expecting to step Into higher
sayin' we don't want to fight but if Btate Pos'ns, will be relegated to
th' president says. 'Come on everybody the dfscard as they should be.
an take a hand,' I guess you'd a-found
most of us out in front an' with enough
of 'preparedness' around to make a
pretty decent showin'. An', bo, take It
from me. It certainly looked like th"
main event was a-goln' to be pulled
off on several different occasions. If
we hadn't had a guy as president that
had a stiff upper lip and th' rightkind Thomas A. Edison, the eloctrical
of a punch with him. we sure would wizard, who through his wholo life
have beon in a fine mess today. What? has Deon a Republican and who In
"Not only that, but now an' then the late campaign supported Teddy
some smart aleck comes along an' says Roosevelt, has come out squarely for
he's been as far away from home as President Wilson and here Is hfs
South Chicago, an' he says, -its just signed statement to prove it. He
awftil how some of them there for- writes:
signers talks about us. an' some of ..Xot since 1S6o hag any cft,nrmlpn
them laughs at us. An' I know they raaii0 sucn a dlrect caU on slmon pure
do because I saw them talkin' an' Americanism. The times are too se
laughin' at me, an' I'm sure its because
they don't like President Wilson.'
Well, wo sure do grow some queer
freaks in this country. God knows we
do. It must be th' sins of th' parents
.,,,,., . . . , ,. ,
beln' visited on us, but whatever it s.
,., . ... .., , ,,, , ,
it s a shame to be lettln' th likes of
.. , , , i . ., . i,
these freaks jump Into th' ye low
, i ., ,
papors an' run down their own coun-
'
rj'
"Durn th' foreigner I ever heard
give th' U. S. th' laugh! Maybe they
ao u an Kin get away wnn u oown in
South Chicago, but they can't if any
of Ub ever hears about it. There ain't
nobody what knows what it means to
......... .. .
be in one of them king-cursed coun
tries an' tell th' natives you're au
American that hasn't been through the
mill. We sure get th' glad hand. Say.
we suro are th1 popular children, be
lieve me. Th' Amorlcan eagle is as
welcome as the flowers In May, an'
th' sight of an American silver dollar
will throw any ordinary foreign noble-
man Into a coulption fit! You bet:
Relieve me, bo, th U S. A. is aces up
today in every country In th' world
thanks to your Uncle Woodrow! An'
any gink that don't like this couutr
(Contnued on Page Eight)
ANOTHER DODGE
IN ADVERTISING
Being Short of Material, a New
Scheme Is Evolved by State Paid
Self Advevrtlser
Another bulletin just one of many
is now being sent out promiioouBly
over the state at the taxpayers' ex
pense emanating from a wing of th
statu board of agriculture advocating
tho killing of buzzards, on the ground
that they "are likely to carry anthrax
from norther,n Arkansas into Mis
souri." Attached to this only prob
lematic statement is a personal adver
tisement of the "authority" who rec
ommends this slaughter. Great paln
are taken to show that this "author
ity" is connected with the state board
of agriculture and his namo as well
as that of the secretary of the state
board, who also Is a splendid adver
tiser, looms up most distinctly in the
foreground. It is expected that tho
to have their own names moro proml-
nently displayed than the "Inform-
EDISON FOR WILSON
The Great Wizard, a Lifelong Repub
lican, Tells Why He Is for
Democracy
rlous t0 talk or think In terms of Re-
pUbllcanIsm or Democracy. Americans
njUst drop parties and get down to
fundamental principles.
. ..,, ,, ., , . . ,
"More than any other president In
,, ,.: , . " "
n memory, Wilson has been faced
... . . .
D a succession of tremendous prob-
. , , , .. . , ,, ; .
lems, any one of which dec ded the
,,.. .,. ,.,,. , .
wrong way would have had disastrous
consequences. Wilson's decisions so
far havo not KOt us Into anv serious
trollbi0 nor are they likely to."
"He has given us peace with honor
This talk about the United State
., ,,,, ... ,, ' """"v'
is a mighty trying policy, but bck
of it are International law, the right
of humanity and the future ot civillaa
tlon. "With reference to Mextao, I think
the president has acted wieeJy, jMy
and courageously.
"It bae ben said WUmb at flrat waa
alt Preparednaaa. Perbape k w.
but when convinced that iateUUMnt
Public opinion was ovrwblmlM- In
fTOr ot lt e cband. That ia th
PPr thin for our reUlt ju do.
A president defiant of public attiaton
would be a dangerous man la our y
tem of government."
