THE BARKE DAILY .TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 150.
HAKKK, VEKMOXT. SATURDAY, SKPTKMllFJt 9. 1010.
HI ICE. OXK CENT.
BULGARIANS
BEAT RUSSIANS
As Well as Rumanians, as
They Continue to Invade
Lattcr's Territory
ARE NOW 50 MILES
BEYOND BORDER
Legend That the Bulgarians
Will Not Fight Rus
sians Is Destroyed
Berlin, via wireless, Sept. 9. Corre
spondents with the Unitarian and Gor
man forces invading Rumania report
that along the Ulaok sea roast an ad
vance of about 50 miles beyond the fron
tier ban already been made. Not only
Rumanians, but Russians, were defeatod
by the Bulgarians in Dobrudja, the cor
respondents say, and this destroys the
WILL NOT SURRENDER
BLACKLIST POLICY
Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of Wr Trade,
So Declared in Discussing American
Retaliatory Legislation,
London, Sept. 0. "It is not likely
Great Britain will change her blacklist
policy at the request of the United
Statt'," said Lord Kobcrt Cecil, minister
ot war trade, in discussing yesterday the
possible effect of recent American retal
iatory laudation. Jo the Aksociated
Press, Lord Boliert stated thut a reply to
the blacklist protect made by the United
St.ite may bo expected soon. Uird
Kobcrt, however, declined to enter into
the details of the contents of the, reply
beyond the statement that the principal
embodied In British legislation forbidding
trading with un enemy country is un
likely to be. buriendcred in any meas
ure. The minister of wbt trade professed
himself to be puzzled by the provisions
in the revenue bill passed by Congress
at Washington dealing with the prohibi
tion of imports, as such orders, he said.
were adopted strictly in an effort to
conserve tonnage anil were applied ac
cordingly. In a general defense of British com
mercial acts to the Associated Tress,
Lord Robert said:
"The ideas expressed by some of your
newspapers that Great Britain is adopt
ing a deliberate policy with which to
injure American trade is the purest
moonshine, since outside of our own do
minions, our trade with the United
LESS FORCE
IN BLOWS
Germans Fail to Put Usual
Vim in the Counter-Attacks
SEVERAL ATTACKS
WERE PUT DOWN
BIG OVATION
FOR WILSON
As He Left Atlantic City
This Morning for
Shadow Lawn
At the Same- Time British
Captured Another
Trench
legend that the Bulgarians will not fight stlifp, ' ihn mnl.t in,n(lr,nf nf on,,r,
i :. ......... . ,
1113 AHini-lH 113.
AUSTRIANS ADMIT
RUSSIAN GAINS
But They Say That Advances Were Most
ly Slight Because of Strong Aus
trian Resistance.
Berlin, by wireless, Sept. 9. The re
newal of violent Russian attacks in the
Carpathians is reported in an ollicial
Austrian statement. It is said that ex
cept for some small advantages the de
termined efforts of the Russians to ad
vance wen; thwarted in Galicia. In Ga
licia, 40 miles east of Ltmberg, the
Russians attacked after heavy artillery
preparations, but were repulsed by Aus
trian artillery fire.
IN GREAT CONFLICT.
natural trade rivalry exists, but no re
sponsible statesman in this country
would dream of proposing an insane
measure designed to injure American
commerce.
"Any impression that the blacklist is
merely an entering wedge for a trade
warfare after the war may be dismissed
at once. I assure you the blacklist is
purely a war measure and I cannot in
sist too strongly that the government is
taking every precaution to guarantee its
enforcement so as to cause as little hard
ship as possible to innocent traders.
"We believe our trade measures are
proving efficacious although it is difficult
to give any figures indicating the extent
of the harm done to our enemies but 1
might point out thut the mark is still
declining in value."
It was then pointed out to Lord Robert
that the belief prevailed that consign
ments of firms trading with blacklisted
firms might be refused shipment from
Americans to other neutral ports through
the fear of not getting coal. Lord Robert
replied : :
"This fear is ungrounded, as we hsve
no desire to interlere nor does the law
contemplate any interference with legit
imate trade. We are taking precautions
London, Sept. 9. -The British captured
a Herman trench in Jlighwood on trie
Somnie front after a sharp fight last
night, it was announced officially to-day.
The German troops made several at
tacks during the night, but none of them
in force.
SPOKE LAST NIGHT
BEFORE SUFFRAGISTS
WAS BORN IN WARREN.
Rumania and Central Powers Clash on
Wide Front.
London, Sept. 0. Rumania, which en
tered the European war less than two
l'0L-c arm ia tirwir thlt Btwrta nf n rrrpfl t
battle between Russo-Rumanian forces to F?vp": unjustified extension of
nnH tht armtfl nf ppnfrnl nnu'Ai'a til blacklist
The southern part of Dobrudja, or east- Questioned in regard to the fate of a
em Rumania, has become a fighting sh,P accenting a consignment from a
rrround and the nnnnsinir nrmi'ea are en- blacklisted firm to any South American
gaged from the Black sea to the Danube Port the minister of war trade said: .
along a front of about 70 miles. ..."I er we hav to insl8t tl,at na-
uonais reiuse 10 supply coai ior sucn a
purpose and I am afraid that a refusal
of the United States to permit the clear
anco of a vessel refusing such a con
signment would cause friction between
the two countries."
Lord Robert expressed the opinion that
Bulgarian and Turkish troops, advane
ing along the Black sea coast, have oe
- cupied Batljik and two other seaports,
Sofia reports, and the fortress of
Oobriteh, or Bnzardjik, 50 miles sout
east or nucha rest, has been taken by a
combined Buk'ar-German force. The
armies of the central powers have not not only was tnft purpose of the blacklist
yet crossed the Danube, all reports agree, but the real design of the Paris
The Rumanians continue their offen- economic conference was misunderstood
sive in eastern Transylvania and also in the United States, saying in this con
have occupied the important town of nectioni
Orsova on the Danube, above the Iron "The real purpose of the Paris eonfer
Gate. Advancing from Csik Szereda, in ence was to arrive at some plan by
Transylvania north of Kronstadt, the which to prevent any resumption or
Rumanians are driving westward and extension of the. politico commercial
Vienna admits the withdrawal of Aus- system prevailing before the war in
trian forces before attacks against Har- the first place, and in the. second, to
gitta. devise means for accomplishing both
The Russians on the northern end of for ourselves and our allies the enormous
their line near Riga have commenced a task of reconstruction. We fully realize
new undertaking and have crossed the that such a plan must involve read
Dvina north of Dvinsk. Repeated efforts justments of existing treaties, which,
by the Germans to dislodge them, Petro- with their favored nations clauses, rvow
grad declares, have been unsuccessful. stand In the way. However, it must be
In eastern Galicia the Austro-Germans remembered that with the exception of
lire fighting desperately to hold back the this country, which has no tariff wall,
Russians advancing on Halicz, southeast all countries have constantly evaded and
f Lembertr. Petrosrrad sava the Austro- violated the favored nations' clause.
Charles Ainsworth, Civil War Veteran,
Died at Age of 80.
Bennington, Sept. 9. Charles Airis
worth, a veteran of the Civil war, whose
home was on Park, street, died Thursday
afternoon at the ermont soldiers' home.
He was taken to the institution on Sep
tember 1 in a serious condition from
which he made no improvement.
He was a native of Warren, where he
was born in 183(5. He served during
the Civil war in Co. C of the flth regi
ment of Vermont volunteers and had an
excellent record.
The family survivors are a widow and
one son, Albert Ainsworth, who resides
in liennineton and a daughter, Mrs. Ar
thur Laplant who lives in Pawtucket,
R. I.
The funeral will be held from the
home at 2 o'clock this afternoon. The
chaplain, Rev. P. L. Dow, will officiate
and the burial will be In the Hinsdill
ville cemetery.
ASSAILED ADMINISTRATION.
Hughes Was Wildly Cheered By Maine
Audiences,
Bangor, Me., Sept. 0. Maine audiences
from Ivtwiston to Bangor yesterday
heard diaries E. Hughes assail the ad
ministration for "surrender to force" in
the enactment of the Aditmson law,
The nominee ended the second Ihv of
hi Maine campaign with an address in
the auditorium here lait night, in which
he brought his audience to its feet with
prolonged applause and cheers, bv h dee.
juration that the American people would
never give up government by law and
reason, won at the cost of continuous
righting.
"Look at the history of the past, he
said, "and of its majestic spectacle of
the people. coming down that long path.
Vow they are defeated; now they are
victorious, but still they come on, the
plain-people. Thev come slowly on, w in-
ning their way, crushing out every form
of tyranny, destroying autocracy, secur
Ing the right to choo.e their own repre
sentatives, winning representative gov
ernment till here in America we have
the finest demonstration the world has
ever known of government br law and
reason. Atlantic City, N. J., Sept. ft. Presi
"Shall we give up! Never, never." dent Wilson, who spoke before the N'a
The audience rose, waved hundreds of tiomu Woman t Suffrage association la
small American flags, cheered and ap- night, left this morning by motor for
plauded. It was't... minutes before the Long Branch to make an extended stay
demonstration ended. 1st Shadow Lawn, his summer home,
In all his four address yesterday 'rSe crowd on the boardwalk and near
at Lewiston, Waterville, Plttsflcld and by streets cheered the president as he
here the nominee made bis attack on entered his automobile and during the
the administration i.i connection with progress of the car through Atlanta
the Adnmsnn law, one of his chief City. In the crowd were many suffrage
themes. fYowd turned out at each place delegates, who apparently were highly
to hear him and cheered and applauded, pleased
In his last speech here last night the
DECIDED BY AGREEMENT.
There He Was Given a Great
Demonstration by the
Delegates
nominee told his audience that he felt
sure of a Republican victory in both the
state and the nation.
Mr. Hughes stood the unusual strain
of fast campaigning well and last night
was feeling somewhat tired, but, as be
said, "never better."
CHEERED BY WOMEN.
GIFT TO STATE HEALTH BOARD.
Designed to Aid in Experimentation Re
garding Polimyelitia.
Burlington, Sept. 0. A friend, whose
name at the present will not be made Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, honorary presi-
When Wilson Told Them Suffrage Cause
Would Triumph.
Atlantic Citr, X. J., Sept. 0. Triumph
for the woman suffrage cause, in a lit
tie while" was predicted by Pres. Wil
son here last night in a speech before
the annual convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage association
I have come here to light ith vou.
the president declared.
Immediately the 4,000 women present
stood and cheered. A few minutes later
PULLED OUT OF LOCOMOTIVE.
Fireman Was Dragged Under Trsin and
Fatally Hurt.
Rutland, Sept. fl. James MeFarren, a
fiieman employed on the Delaware &
Hudson railroad, was fatally injured yes
terday morning at 10:30 o'clock at Port
Henry, X. V., while reaching from Li
engine for a train order. He was dragged
from the locomotive by an express truck
and fell beneath the wheels of the engine,
which, with the train, pkssed over him.
He was taken to the hospital at Tieon-
deroga, X, V., where he died. Both legs
were cut off.
He was well known in this city, having
married .Miss Mary Mahoney of Rutland
n November, 1!)14. He was 25 years old
and had always made his home in White
hall. Besides his wife, he leaves a daugh
ter, Mary Elizabeth, his mother and five
sisters, Corinc, Bernice and Frances of
Whitehall, and Miss Eva MeFarren and
Mrs. Ray Gordon of Hartford, Conn.
KILLED BY LIGHTNING.
German forces have fallen back to the
western bank of the. Gnita Lipa, while
Vienna asserts that the troops of the
central powers are holding their own in
the heavy fighting that is going on. Rus
sian attacks against German positions
on the Ziota Lipa, southeast of Brzezany,
failed with heavy losses, Berlin reports.
MANY BOMBS DROPPED.
By-British Naval Aeroplane One Ma
chine Failed to Return.
London, Sept. 0 An air attack against
the German aerodrome at St. Denis
Westrem, five miles from Ghent, was re
ported by the admiralty yesterday. The
official version of the raid follows i
"Xaval aeroplanes bombarded the en
emy aerodome at St. Denis-Westrem on
Thursday. Monday bombs were dropped
with good results. One of our machines
failed to return. In the afternoon a na
val aeroplane attacked and set on fire
a kite balloon at Ostend. The pilot re
turned safely.
In conclusion Lord Robert declared
that the adoption of the plan outlined
at the Paris conference might result in a
world-wide scientific tariff.
CAPTURED AFTER STRUGGLE.
Zacharach, Slayer of Head Waiter
Boston Hotel on August 8.
in
Perfectly Reckless.
The members of the church voted that
their dearly beloved and devoted pastor
should have a vacation, and so he de
cided that he would visit a brother
worker in the neighboring village. This
good brother, recognizing his fellow
worker in the Lord way back among the
congregation on Sunday morning and
wishing to show every courtesy, asked
him to lead in prayer. But the visitor
lalmly replied: "You'll have to excuse
me, dear brother. I'm on my vacation."
A New Thought.
The new girl had been but three weeks
In the employ of an artistic family, but
her time had evidently not been spent
exclusively in studying the domestic
arts. As her in
ttructionb as to the dinner she said
"Miri. don't f.. rget the potatoes."
"No, ma'am." was the reply; "will you
lae 'em in their jackets or in the noo'd!"
Two Boys Were Victims in Greater New
York.
New York, Sept. 9. Two bovs were
killed by lightning, other persons were
stunned and much damage was done by a
storm that lashed Greater New York
late yesterday.
The boys killed, Leon Janella, 10, and
William McKibbit, 12, were struck by a
bolt while playing in a tent at Long Is
land City. Two companions were taken
to a hospital injured.
The wind uprooted trees and rain flood
ed the streets. Wind and lightning to
gether damaged several buildings.
James B. Reynolds, secretary of the
Republican national committee, was
struck by mortar from a cornice and nar
rowly escaped serious injury from the
fall of a massive glass and wood parti
tion the wind swept Into Republican na
tional headquarters and played havoc
with the furnishings and records. Sever-
public, has sent to the Vermont state
board of health a sum of money which
will be used by the hoard to enable them
to make investigations regarding the
value of immune serum in the treatment
of poliomyelitis, or infantile paralysis
cases. The serum wil be given to prac
ticing physicians free of charge, to be
used in cases of polimyelitis where they
are discovered early. It is intended to
try this treatment out, such work hav
ing already been put into operation in
the state of New York.
The serum is obtained from the blood
of individuals who have recovered from
the disease and are, therefore, immune.
After certain preparlion, which will be
done at the board of health research
laboratory, it is Injected info the fluid
spaces of the spinal cord, replacing some
of the cerebro-spi'ial fluid previously
withdrawn. The'treatment will be ap
plied in the pre-paralytie stage to a lim
ited number of selected cases, which, in
the judgment of the attending physi
cian and the board of health physician,
are likely to be benefited. The treat
ment is in the experimental stage, and
too much must not be expected of it. It
is of no use after paralysis has developed.
TO RELEASE STUDENTS.
nl nf the office nartit.iotm u-er thrrtwn
Boston, Sept. 9. Stell Zacharach, for-1 jnu.n
merly a waiter at the Hotel Kssex, who! TllB ,,,),.. nr.all th. v..
on August 28 shot and killed Charles W . ;iocilv of the wind RS 60 mileg an hour
Lranney, neaa waiter in tne notei, ana ; j.;ariier in the afternoon the tempera
wounded Albert Botano, second head ; turo had rigcn to 00 dffgreM) a September
waiter, as they were eating dinner m ,ord not rached here before since
the second floor dining room of the ho- j ig-3
tel, was captured yesterday afternoon by
six officers who broke into the house at I
418 Columbus avenue. j Returning Efficient Men to the Legisla-
The police had been watching the Co- 1 tuxe.
1,..., -.. c , f ... - i. . , : 1
having recently received a clew, telling Th J1 1IpSlslt"re uld be a
them that Zacharach was hiding there.
They finally decided to raid the place.
Two policemen were sent to watch the
rear of the building while four broke
open the front door. Zacharach was
taken by surprise and he fought vicious
ly, but he was overpowered and man
acled All me way to tne ponce station
the prisoner uttered threats against the
police.
more efficient body if the custom pre
vailed of sending able men to the capital
President Benton Gets Favorable Action
from Secretary Baker.
Burlington, Sept. 0. Dr. Guy Potter
Benton, president of the University of
Vermont, telegraphed last evening from
Washington, I). C, that after a confer
ence with Secretary of War Newton 1).
Baker and General Mills, the government
officials had authorized him to announce
that the University of Ve.aiont students
in C company of the First Vermont in
fantry and those of the hospital corps of
the Vermont National Guard, now at Ra
gle Pass, Texas, would be mustered out
and sent home within ten days. It was
stated last evening at Washington that
similar action would be taken with re
gard to Norwich tiniversiry students now
serving with the ermont National
Guard.
President Benton's measagj was as fol
lows:
"Have just come from most satisfac
tory interview with Secretary Baker and
General Mills, and they have authorized
me to wire boys at Eagle Pass that stu
dents of Company C and medical corps
will be mustered out and sent homo
within ten days. I am anxious for morn
ing papers to announce it prominent Iv,
so parents and friends may be relieved of
worry."
lent of the association with Mr. Wilson
still present, declared: "We have waited
long enough to get the vote. We want
it now. I want it to come during your
administration.
Again the great audience of women
stood and cheered, waving handkerchiefs
The president s- pledge of support to
the suffrage question caused Mis. Carrie
Chapman Catt, president of the organiza
tion to say in a speech soon after he
dosed :
You touched our hearts and won our
fealty when you said you had come here
to right with us."
The president did not speak on the
method by which he would hring about
woman suffrage, but said, "We shall not
quarrel in the long run as to the method
of it."
The women in their smeh also failed
to mention the question of method.
The president was warmly applauded
before, during and after his speech. With
Mrs. Wilson he sat during several ad
dresses. Fears expressed before the meet
ing that he might be "heckled'' did not
materialize. At the conclusion of hi ad
dress Mrs. Catt thanked him for speak
ing.
Delcaring that sometimes he became
"a little impatient" over diaenssions about
the channels through which votes for
women are to come, the president caused
the delegates to applaud by saying, "1
have felt here tho wholesome contagion
of the occasion."
Mr. Wilson aroused the greatest en
thusiasm when he said that whenever
he had come to Atlantic City previously
he had come to fight against somebody,
but that on his present trip, he had
"come to fight with somebody." The
women in the boxes, orchestra and the
balcony stood and cheered.
The meeting ended with the president
and Mrs. AVilson standing between suf
frage leaders, joining in singing patriot- j
ic songs.
Tn his address the president did not
mention his previously expressed belief
that suffrage should came by action of
the states.
At the time the United States was
formed, Mr. Wilson said, only a lawyer
knew enough to run the nation, but since
the Civil war the country has been faced
more and more by social questions, and
women have more and more taken an
interest in public affairs.
"The whole nature of our political
question has been altered," be said.
Speaking of the future of the move
ment, Mr. Wilson declared that the tide
was rising and would come to its flood.
Free-for-All at Rutland Had Already
Gone Five Heats.
Rutland, Sept. !).-Five thousand peo'
pie assembled yesterday at the Hul Ian
fair ground to see nine of the tastes
hore In tbi part of the country com
-te for the f2,,100 purse in the free-for
all, which was the feature of the pro
gram on the last day of the Hutlan
fair. No such racing as ever witnesse
in this city. Most of the beats were of
(be neck and ncek. sort and the grand
stand was wild with excitement.
When darkness fell after the fifth heat
the race was decided, as per aummary
on agreement of the driver of the ton
horse in for money and the association
with no horse having more than two
heats.
The race went to Earl, Jr., owned by
A. (i. .lone of Dorchester. Mass., having
a record of 2:0',. Kred W., a fitch
burg horse, secured second money. B. M
from Springfield, Mass., was given the
third place and Hal hoy from Liberty
ville, 111., eecured fourth money.
Freeman Ross, the IS yesr old bor,
made his second balloon ascension and
parachute drop yesterday. The five days'
fair was not marred by a single aerjdent
other than the fatal balloon accident of
Wednesday.
The summaries of the races:
Free-for-All- Purse $2,500.
Earl, Jr., gr f. Tones 1 ft 3 1 3 1
Fred YV., bg (Weeks! 923 1
B. M., bgh (Whitcomb) 3 17 6 3
Halboy. be (McMahonl 1 ft H
Frank Rogash, Jr. (Murphy). 2 8 4 7 4
Baron, lie (Cavanaugh 47527
Grand Opera, bh (Rrcnnan)... 7 5 2 5ro
It-Will-Tell, rg (Whitcombl.. fi 4 8 4ro
Camelia. bin (Cox) 8 ft dr
Time 2:11 'i. 2:11, 2:H',i, 2:13,
2:1 ',;.
2-.2H Trot Puree $500.
Togal, bg (Donnelly) 1 1 1
The Only One, gg (Brownell) 2 2 2
Plucky Chap, gh (Lyons) 3 3 3
Earlymorn. chg (Brown) dis
Time 2:20, 2:20'i, 2: 2nVs,
CHARTER OAK RACES END.
Walter Cox Celebrated Birthday by Win
ning Race Easily.
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 9. The grand
circuit meeting at Charter Oak park
enme to a close yesterday with racing
over the new half-mile track, three events
beinir staged, and they were all won in
straight beats, none of the heats produc
ing" anything like excitement. Walter
Cox, one of the trio of the circuit's big
dirvers, celebrated his 4Hth birthday an
niversary bv winning the 2:30 trot, the
flist event of the day, with Busy s Lasie,
never being pressed at anv stage. Dollv
Dixon finished a good second in each heat.
The Hartford Road Drivers' club spe
ial was notable for the number of breaks
made by the horses entered, and Frisco
Worthy, a bay gelding by San Francisco,
ot telassed the ret of the field. Tommy
O., with a stand for third money, lost
out bv being distanced in the last heat
for running.
Diumeter led the field a fast chase in
the third race, the 2:2 pace, going into
tho lead right away and turning a quar
ter over the half-mile ring in 31 Vi sec
onds. Murphy was satisfied to keep Alt
wood a length and a half behind in sec-
nd place, and the rest of the field were
not equal to this pair. Wilbur S. was
distanced in the second heat, when he
broke in the last half.
Diumeter with 2:08V4 to his credit in
the first two heats, set a new track rec
ord for the half-mile ring, lowering the
mark of 2:10 1 4 set last Tuesday by
Azora Axworthy.
The Race Summaries.
2:30 TTot.
Purse. $1,500.
Busy's Lassie, b. m., by Peter The
EXPECT CRISrS
IN CAR STRIKE
When Mke-Breakers Aroi
P 4" -o Work This
T Ifternoon
STRI I,RS MAY HAVE
AElll OLD PLACES
But They Must Report Be
' fore One O'clock
To-day .
New York, Sept. 9. Both sides in th
street railway strike looked for a crisis
this afternoon, hn tho traction com
pany will endeavor to re-establish normal
service on surface lines with the use of
strike-breakers. The strikers were noti
fied that by renouncing their allegiance
o me union they may hsve their places
liRck up to I o'clock tnis afternoon, after
which time the company reserves tha
right to fill their places with strike
breakers.
The company announced this mornlm?.
that a full 24-hour service, will be main-
ained to-day 011 the green car lines. For
the past few nights, the cars have been
suspended.
THREAT TO EXTEND STRIKE.
2 2
4 3
5 4
Great 1 1 1
Roily Dixon, blk. m. . .
Kphenetus, b. g
Narcissa D.. b. m
American Girl, eh. m. ..- 3 dis
Time, 2:16, 2:17') 2:18Vi
Road Drivers' Club Special, 2:17 Trot.
" Purse, $1,000.
Frisco Worthy, b. g., by San Fran
cisco 1 1 1
Ned Sterling, b. g 5 5 2
Jay Boreal, br. m 4 4 3
I Stand Tat, g. g 1 3 6 4
Tommy O., blk. g 6 2dis
Kitty Moore, b. m 2 3dr
Florence R., br. m 7 dr
Time, 2:17!i, 2:17Vi, 2:19i.
2:12 Pace.
Purse. $1,500.
Diumeter, b. g., by Dunn 1 1 1
To Two Other Companies Operating
Lines in New York.
New York, Sept. 9. Union leader
hreaten to extend the strike of the ele-'
ated subway and surface lines to tha
ines of the Third Avenue Railway corn-
any and the Lnion Railway company
unless the heads of these lines pledge,
themselves not to circulate individual
contracts among their men. The Third
Avenue line, it waa said, flatly refused
tho demands.
James L. Quaekenbush, general coun
sel for the Interborough, declared at an
investigation held by the public service
commission that "some legislation must
be enacted even to amending the Unit-;
ed States constitution of necessary to.
resuming a government of laws and not
of men."
"It was no part of the business of
President Roosevelt to interfere in tha
anthracite strike situation," he added,
"without intending to criticize or en
gage in political discussion, it is my
opinion that it was no part of the pres
ident's business nor of the duties of his
office to engage in the recent railway
situation."
Mr. Quackenbush told the commission
it had no right to interfere in the in-
dividual contracts and that the question
of wages alone was arbitrable. Union
officials last night asserted that 3,000
elevated railway and subway employes
were out, but made no claims that serv-'
ice was being crippled. On the New York
Railways company's surface lines, how
ever, they asserted that service was be
ing seriously interrupted. The company
admitted that fewer cars than usual wera '
running again to-day.
The smoke bomb, thrown from the roof ;
of a tenement house to the tracks of'
the Ninth avenue elevated line last nighb!
caused considerable excitement. It was!
extinguished, however, before any dam- '
age was done.
FUNERAL OF GEORGE W. MARTIN
Who Was Found Dead in Bed in Waits
field. Waitsfield, Sept. 9. Funeral services
It Was New to the Bishop.
At an unusually large dinner party,
where the guest of honor was an English
bishop, the butler, an elderly man. vas
obliged to bring in from a friend's bouse
an inexperienced lad to help him in the
dining-room. The awkward helper an
noyed the butler beyond enduram-e with
questions a to his duties.
He continued interminably until the
butler, worn out and nervous, said iron
ically:
Mre-s was giving her in- I.. Twl I V ,
r, ":j i hind the bishops chair, and whenever
His Lord'hip puts down his class you
must reach over and wipe his jjiouth
with a napkin."
That silenced his assistant. But the
yminsr man a- tus!lv took the ord-r se
riously, and soon a dinner be?an he
stationed himself behind the hishnp.
waited until Hi Lord'bip had drunk and
put down his glass, and tlwn. lielilwr
ately as hi- nerrou'ne would permit,
he opened out a Urge napkin ar. l iped
the dignified old gentleman's mouth!
more than one term. Unfortunately it I were held Thursday at the residence of
.Mrs. ateruian lor (jeorgi V . .Martin,
who was found dead in bed Wednesday
morning at Fred 1". Wilder's, where be
was caring for Mr. Andrews. Mr. Mar
tin had been in his usual state of health,
but Tuesday night, upon retirins, did
not feel as well as usual. Dr. Howard
pronounced death due to heart failure.
Ceorge W. Martin was born Aug. 15.
ISO.-, aud had spent the greater part of
his life in this town. Warren and Fays
ton. He was twice married, his first wife
being Alice Bruce. Three years ago he
was married to Mis Nettie Bruce-of
Warren. He is survived bv two daugh-i
is me general custom to elect a man
town representative one term and then
have him drop out to give one of his
ambitious neighbors his "turn." J. Wes
ley Miller, a minister in Bethel, has
been elected for four terms of service, al
though he is a Democrat in a town with
a large Republican majority. Mr. Miller
will be a candidate again this year and
will undoubtedly be elected. The knowl
edge which he has gained in the service
will make him one of the most useful
men of the House if he is returned again.
There are two Windham county legisla
tors whose conscientious work has been
WELL-KNOWN MARBLE MAN.
One on the Professor.
"Has an thins ever been discovered on
YcrnisV ask.d the stiHi-rt of astronomy.
"No." replied tl.e fid profe-sor, whose
mini hid slipped a -ic and trsn-i-orted
him ml a rn:h'ix:vai field, "not if the
I-irtures of her are auth nt .
repeatedly recognized, and their tenure tent, h.dith and Kmilie, and one son,
of office probably has not been equalled Stanley; also by nine grandchildren,
in the present generation. We refer to Interment was in the Warren village
Tyler (ioodcll of Whitingham and E. P. cemetery. The bearers were Charles H.
Adams of Marlboro. Each of these men Newvnmh, Henry N. I -a Mordcr, Harve
has been in the House five terms and in McAllister. Moses Heath, Warner Moore
the Senate once. Brattleboro Reformer. " trunk Bruce. Fev. . A. Femele
M. Odcll Died in Rutland After a Year's
Illness.
Rutland, Sept. . M. Odell, a well
known marble man in this vicinity, died
yesterday morning at 3 o'clock at the
Rutland hospital, after a years illness
with Bright's disease. He was 72 years
old and had made his home with his
daughter, Mrs. A. B. Mattison of State
street, for some time. He was a native
of Vermont and had lived in West Rut
land the greater part of his life.
He was a member of Center lodge of
Masons, and an escort from this lodge
will accompany the body from the Spen
cer A. Canty undertaking rooms to the
Masonic temple, where on Sunday at 2
o'clock the funeral will be held. Mr. Odell
is survived by three daughters. Mrs. Rob
ert Cameron of Fitchburg, Mass., and
Mis Craee Odell of Pittsburg. Ta., and
two sons, G. H. and BL E. Odell of this
cit v.
Altawood, gr. m.
Aconite, b. s
Dick Mason, blk. g
Wilbur E., ch. g
Time, 2:08'., 2:0914, 2:0fli,;.
2 2 2
3 4 3
4 3 4
5 dis
DROVE ON WRONG SIDE.
Autoist Wss Arrested and Fined in Bur
lington. Burlington, Sept. 9. George F. Finne-
gan of Boston was driving a Ford runa
bout with a Vermont license. No. 14347.
down Main street on the right, hand
side of the road this morning. As he
neared the corner of Church street, he cut
over to the wrong side. Traffic Officer
Barry ordered him to stop.
Finnegan refused to and the officer
promptly arrested him. He was ar
raigned in city court and was lined
$5 and costs of $5.11 which he paid.
CASE A MILD ONE.
A One-Man Jury.
A tailor who was defendant in a case
tried in court seemed much cast down
when brought nn for trial. ""What's the
trouble?"' wl.i-jiered his counsel, observ
ing his client's distress as he surveyed j Mrs. Frank Carpenter: hi d.
the jurymen.
It loks pretty bad for me,'
pastor of the Congregational ihunh. of
ficiated. The hou'e was crowded, friends
from Warren and Fayston being present
in large numbers.
Amons thoe rres'nt from out of
town ere hi mother, Mr. Carlos Mar- of here. The dead Iran and woman, each
t;n; his siter snd her hushand. Mr. and ; apparently about 80 years old, nave not
i CASUALTIES
In Head-on Collision of Trolley Cars at
Rives Junction, Mich.
Jackson. Mich.. Sept. 9. Two persons
were killed and 14 injured, two fatally,
late yesterday afternoon in a head-on
collision lietween two traction cars on
the Michigan United Railway company's
line at Rives Junction, ten miles north
.I ter. ' been identified.
Kmilie. and her husband. Arthur Aithcr!
lid thelof Stiwe; his daughter. Fd:th. wife oft
Summer Visitor at Lake St. Catherine
Has Infantile Paralysis.
Rutland. Sept. 9. A case of infantile
paralysis has developed at the Hicks cot
t;;gc on the west shore of the !.ake St.
Catherine, the patient being May Cook
of New Rmhelle, N. Y., seven years old.
The case is said to be a mild one.
Dr. C. S. Cavelry of Rutland, president
of the state board of health, and Dr. Ed- j
ward Taylor of Burlington, director of
research work in ermont for the Rocke
feller institute in New York, hive exam
ined the afflicted child.
STRANGER COLLAPSED.
Percy Nevins, 21, Had Apoplectic Shock.
On Bethel Street.
Bethel, Sept. 9. Percy Kevins, aged
21 years, of Portland, Me., arrived by j
train from the south about 3 o'clock
Thursday afternoon, looking for work.
He had worked in a railway repair shop. ,
The same evening he was standing near a
tree at the Bethel parage when he sud- 1
denly collapsed and, when seen and aided
by Sam L. Abbott, was unable to speak
or help himself.
Dr. O. D. Greene was called and he had
him carried to the Bascom house, where 1
he spent the night. Yesterday morning
he was able to speak with some difficul
ty, and still further improvement was
noted. Hopes of his recovery are enter
tained. He had suffered a stroke ol ;'
apoplexy.
The man was at first identified by
a letter found in his pocket. Only two '
dollars in money were found in his pos- '
session, but he wore a new suit, hat and
raincoat. He gave the name of an uncle
living in Readville, Mass., who was
wired regarding the affair. Temporarily
Nevins was removed to C. E. Noble's,
the overseer of the poor, pending devel
opments.
QUARRY TROUBLE IN COURT.
DIED AT EAST CALAIS.
Georje Wallace of Morrisvill Hid Been
111 a Year.
Morrivil!e. Sent, 9. frforge Wallace,
who had been ill for the past year, died
Thursday morning at Sabin' pond. East
Calais, where the family bt bwen in
The bdv r
Pot master Gorman received a tele-
d- fendaiit, "uuh s ome steps are taken Henrv Mearn-; Mr. and Mrs. Hcnrv ! cram to-dav, ordering hini to discontinue eamp for several weeks.
to d:.-i::i!-s that jury and get in a new Moore. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Brii.-, Mi jthe sale of stamps for document and j brought here Friday and the funeral will
lot. There ain't a man amoncst m but IHattie Hanks of South Koyslton. Mrs. osmetic, berausa of the repeal of tbeltske place at 2 ociock th t afternoon at
what owes me money for clothes." Mathilie More of Warren. " law. the homa.
F. M. Corry and C. J. Nye in Suit Against
Barre Granite & Quarry Co.
In behalf of all of the stockholders of
the Barre Granite A. Quarry Co., Frank
M. Corry, trustee, and Charles J. Nye
have entered proceedings in Washington
county court against the Barre Granite
4 Quarry Co. and Donald Smith, A. A.
Smith, D. A. Perry and S. Hollister Jack
son of Barre and H. Nelson Jackson of
Burlington.
Mr. Corry asserts that he owns ttocK
in the company valued at fl.O.V) and that
as president of the Wetmore &. Morse
Granite Co. he stands ready if the Barre
Granite A Quarry Co. property is put up
at public auction to open the bidding at
$125,000.
To the Voters of Barre Tonra.
Primary election comes next Tueeday
and all voters should turn out in order
to give the law a fair trial.
All voters in Barre Town should at
tend if they wish to see their fllor
townsman. F. C. Bancroft, honored br
being placed on the senatorial ticket tn
Washington eonnty. There are four can
didates in the field for three places and
we mnt not expe-t the rest of the coun
ty to nominate him unless w do ur
part. Coma out sod vote.
Vows
