BENNINGTON
EVENING
BANNER
Ill Tj
THIRTEENTH YEAR-NO 3882 '
BENNINGTON, VT. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1916,
PRICE ONE CENT
- ... m a -1 A 1 I T 11 1TTT1 T T I-, , 1 . . 1 " 1 1 T H K Tl TT" TV
ThP Arhicnn i, nhp savQ hat npna.nreri a nonn Never Arcomniisneci wnat. was Kxnectea hut me u ner uoes More man ever jjreame
X li v X X LI I J v - i xi AVkv u w a. j. iu u r w 7 'w -wan - -- - - - -
rVt. State
r.ik
The Three Senatorial Candidates Who Will He Voted tor at next luesday s fnmaryj (jy jJ
m i w
BATTLE H
lontinuous i-igniirg seiween u
ube and Black Sea
TURKS REINFORCE GERMA
CAFIKOLIj smallky I'AOB
Carroll Smalloy Page was horn in
Westfleld, Orleans county, Jan. 10,
1843. When he was three years Old
his parents moved to Hyde Park
which has since heen his homo, lie
went to the public schools and also at
tended Peoples academy at Morris
villc. He started out to earn his own way
in the world at the age of 17 and,
in addition to his political career, lias
made himself one of the leading busi
ness men of the state. He ran a small
store and then embarked in the tan
nlng and green calfskin businoi-g. In
this latter line he has built up the
largest business In America and his
name as a dealer in calfskins is
known to the trade all over the world.
Later he became Interested in bank
ing and the bank at Hyde I'ark is said
to be the largest bank in the world in
a country village. is also a stock-
bolder In several other banks and as
side line is a manufacturer of poui
try food.
He was a member of the Vermont
House of representatives from 180!)
to 1872 and was elected to the state
senate in 1874. He was state inspec
tor of finance from 1884 to t sss and
was elected governor In W9Q, In 1H00
ho was an unsuccessful candidate for
congressman from this district and
was chosen to fill out the unexpired
term of the late Hedtleld Proctor in
the United States senate in 1108 and
re-elected for a full term In 1910,
Senator Page's business and polin-
V ::v ':-' ' t
' ':' ; t . ' ' '- '
w i iwniii I i j v noo BL I U C I I I
Powers to Check Russian Ad
vance in Rumania.
'CHARLES WINSLOW c;.TES
Charles Winslow Hates was lioin in
Franklin, Franklin county, Jan. 12,
185G and has always lived in that
town. -He attended the public schools
of his home town and graduated from
St. Johnsbury academy. After teach
ing school for several years he bought
a farm in Franklin and was for years
I arm or of
He also conducted a store at the il
eal successes have been won by care-; one of the successful
rnl persistent effort rather than by artrj countv.
spabiiiuiiic or speciacuiar coup, ne
Hhr nlu-iiva rvtiinitf,l thrift In.liiat-
and frugality and has practiced tiiese , lage of Franklin and held the various
virtue.-. town offices WltJj honor and ability.
No public man in Vermont has had ,,B W08 also 0M or the directors and
harder battles in making his wav In I ... ...
politics than Senator Page, but ex ' "onagers of the r ranklin creamery,
cept for his contest against the late I He was elected to the legislature In
David J. Foster In l'.mi) he has been al-1 1 8!S and to the state senate in l!io.
ways successful. In 1B04 he was appointed state high
way commissioner by Governor Hell
aud served the state in that capaclt)
for ten years Wnb IttCh honor and suc
cess that he was easily nominated for
Governor in 1914 with great enthus
iasm against four other candidate.
He took tiie oath as governor in Jauu
ary, 1916 and Is still in office.
He is one of the directors of the
Imuk at Enosburg Falls. He is well
known In every town in Vermont and
probably has n wider circle of person
al friends than any other man in Ver
men:. Governor Gates is a man of unusual
tact and diplomacy and as stale high
way commissioner showed wonderful
ability in adjusting diillculties-affecting
road improvement and in arousing
interest in road work all over the
i talc
Allen M. Fletcher was '.torn in In
dianapolis. Ind., Sept. 25, 1853. He
COnea of one of the oldest and best
known of Vermont families, his great
grandfather having settled in Ludlow
150 year.i ago. His great uucle, lty
land Fletcher was governor of Ver
mont, 185ti-58, and his uncle, Henry
A. Fletcher was lieutenant governor
1890-!2 at the same time that Senator
I"age was governor. The wile of the
late. Senator Ucdheld Proctor was
a member of the same family.
Allen M. Fletcher was educated in
the public schools of Indianapolis and
at Williston seminary. As a boy he
spent his summers at Ludlow- and in
1881 he came to Ludlow and bought
the ancestral farm of the family
where the family had lived for lour
generations. This farm was where
his father was born and was partly in
the town of Ludlow and tartly in Cav
endish. He built himself a home
in the Cavendish section and
spent a largo part of his time
there, but did not become a
legal resident of Vermont until 1 8f'..
He gradually bought other property in
the vicinity and has become one of the
largest real estate owners in Wind
sor count).
He represented Cavendish in the
Hcuso In 192. 130ft. iju8 and 191P and
was a member of the state senate in
1904. He was a member of the com
mission that revised the state constitu
tion in 1910 and was elected governor
ii 191:.
He is a man of great wealth and a
shrewd and far seeing flnan iler. "He
has extensive holdings of real estate
in three states and is a lare holder of
railroad securities' and l ank stock.
His father left him a moderate for
tune and Mils has been grcaily in
creased through his sound business
judgment and ability.
London, Sept. 9. The beginning
n greai name m souuieasiern mimi
ia is renorted unofficially from Pet
grad. The Russians are said to ha
taken the offensive over the entl
ing Bulgarians and Germans from t
Danube to the I'.lack sea. near . t
Bulgarian frontier.
announces Important victories for t
invaders in this region. It is said t
German and Bulgarian forces ha
caninrci me Rumanian rortinoa ro
east of Bucharest and three towns
i.i' . . . i . i i ii i i imii' n .i vuani in
the Bulgarian frontier.
n uispuicn -iioiii lenmi says u
.usuiaii iroops nave itecn wnnora
f . .i. . . i.j...... i n
iioiii Lueir iJLiiiuiis wesi 01 .
Sbereda, 50 miles north of Kronsta
in Transylvania, before Rumanian
rnuniianon lssueu iroiu ausito-m
garian headquarters yesterday.
have been pushed back from Hal
at LCI u iu uuja name won vieru
Minounced today. The Russians
a number of prisoners.
Allen M. Fletcher An Appreciation
The first impression of Allen M.
Fletcher is one of great mental alert
ness, resolution aud tenacity or pur
pose. One gets a glimpse, through the
eagle glance of steady and observant
eyes, of a spirit of directness, courage,
slnceriiy and one feels the force aud
possibility of the man, and a few min
utes' talk discloses the personal epiip
inent of the public servant. No one
can meet him without recognizing a
strong and potent personality, and no
one can know him without discovering
the resources of a trained and useful
mind.
Mr. Fletcher has been accused of
the crafty and insidious attitude tow
ard public service and politics. He
has been credited with motives as ob
scure and as subtle as those of the
Italian diplomat Mnchiavclli. but he Is
really a man of very direct mental al
titude, with an astounding faculty of
instant analysis and appraisal of men.
projects or situations set before him,
that is sometimes almost uncanny.
There Is probably not a man inVer
mont so hard to humbug or so dl Ill
cult to Interest In a shady of question
bale project, and much of the vindica
tive enmity of certain men and certain
interests bus been due, not only to his
refusal to trade, compromise or toler
ate their plant, but to his prompt and
effective measures to defeat them.
Set High Political Standard
Mr. Fletcher set a very high stand
ard in public service. He served no
muster but his constitutents, ami he
hud no patience whatever with men
who sought to serve private as well as
public interests, knowing full well
that in such cases it is the public and
not the private Interest that suffers.
Some of his summary public acts, for
which be was execrated with a bitter
ness unparalleled in Vermont political
history, were due to this impatience
with double dealing irt official circles.
.Mr. Fletcher is somewhat of a
stickler for old-fashioned moral
standards and old fashioned family
life. Horn himself of nn old and hon
orable Vermont family, he is proud
of its character and its Identification
with the history of the soil and the
people. He Is loyal to his friends and
never forgets a service, rendered or
prolfered in a spirit of disinterest.
His mental attitude to most ordi
nary affairs is one of humor, running
sometimes to a cynic philosophy when
the faults aud foibles of mankind are
concerned, but truly sympathetic with
honest endeavor, tender of misfortune
and tolerant of our imperfect human
nature.
Admitted Hit Mistakes
In his public life. Governor Fletcher
made mistakes, but lie was always
willing to remedy them. In making a
large number of public appointments,
it was Inevitable that he should have
heen sometimes mistaken. When this
happened, he did not hesitate to re
move the unfit and Inadequate. This
accounts for some very active enmit
ies, because there is no enmlly sharp
er than the enmity Ot a politician sud
denly removed from the public payroll.
Mr. Fletcher Is a man of consider
FRENCH HUG
lost mm
w
AH
claims of big business, of special Inter
ests, of political manipulators.
A Real Governor.
In a very huge degree. Governor
Fletcher fulfilled the ideol of a chief
executive who administered Hie office
solely with reference to his now con
science and his own conception of its
exalted duties. He was the servant of
the people of Vermont, lie owed
allegiance to no clique or political
faction. He was no man's man and
even his enemies admit that he was a
EMPLOYEES MEET
Batt'e Has Been in Progress for wvemor- who took hu omen
u iniiv from the people
201 Days
GERMAN ATTACK 10' ING FORCE
Teutons Withdrawing Both Aitlllery
and Infantry to Reinforce Army
on Somme.
Paris. Sept 9. -The French drove
the Germans out of a small trench
south of Hie Somme river lust night.
I Tltu u-nr otlli-e ntiliiillnnen Ihnt ??IM)
German prisoner! have been taken In
the Somme geotor since the beginning
Of the offensive on September &
The Germans tire on the defensive
at Verdun The French lire now win-
able means and property, and after a 1 hack some of the positions lost in
career or strenuous effort and accom-, Die great bailie which begun 21 da; -olishmenl
would be Jus.lfied In retlr- ago. The Germans are reported to be
Naturally such a man made en,. mi, ;
and no bitterer enemies ever assailed
a public officer than the representa
tives of certain special Interests who
felt their business endangered and
their plans for legal attenuation and
delay menaced by his proposed purg
ing of the courts.
Constituted by the organic law of
the state, the courts of a common
wealth are protected b an austere
barrier of tradition and entitled to re
spect and Immunity by virtue of their
lofty character. It Is only when such
courts become obseased by the line
spun legal theories of technicians in
the law that Hie Interests of the com
mon people are endangered. Such a
condition confronted Allen M. Flet
cher when governor of Vermont, and
he went directly to the personnel of
the courts, which was the only remedy
that lay m hand.
A Step Toward Reform .
IMKITtl
PIFRFIEID
Outlook Fncouraging for Settle
ment ofG.E. Mrike
PRODUCE PRICES GOING UP
I 1 a... it T , . i . 1 .. i.
have arrived in the vicinity of Hal
to assls the Germans In checking
Russian advance.
ARLINGTON HEALTH OFFIE
Cases
No
Cost of Living Increasing With
Prospect of Relief.
Most of the esaentlsla that enter in
to the living expenses of the avenue
family are increasing in price nre In
dealing in price and judging from
present indications there is little pros- ;
peet of reliof. In the opinion of the
Bennington retail merchants who deal I
In produce and groceries, prices are i
likely to advance instead of decrease. .
Creamery butter is retailing .it
10 cents a pound and eggs are Bolting I
at 40 cents a dozen. Potatoes by the
peck cost the consumer HO cents and
Makes Statement As To
Disease There.
i ...... .,t ti,.. i. .itiiitii' 1 ..- in- t in i
two navs ii "re nas occn a moo ci
lated hi Arlington, that the
child was not afflicted with infan
paralysis.
The story is absolutely false as
(diild has been seen and examined
specialist from Boston and an exp
. m it il.i t I.. i II
:ii! .11 1 1 ih i ii is nn. mi nr uu
v t nn i nn tii iinin i ii fniiM 4 ri
log Ii completely paralyzed.
Ill I I , I l" 1111' .ill' I . V . 111 U III
doing research work in Infan
men 01 inn. i iroiu ine spinal cauai
blank to Hie attending physician
j.m.ut Our lilm In iilvo f.tll imrtfntll
tis in the iHssime source 01 meet
. . . . I & I -I al
t 11 II I' 1.1.11' 1 UN Ut't'II 111 I I II It
micros) oplc examination.
Such stories have a tendency to
tl I.. . .
COHERENCE CONTINUES TODAY
l.ate potatoes will cost the consumer
at least V by the barrel and he will lie
fortunate if he can put them in his ;
Cellar at this price. '
Wheat cohtlnuat to be quoted 1
around $1.75 which keeps the price of
floor above $ a barrel.
Fewer IV.cn Returning to Work as
Police Are Unable to Protect
Them From Assault.
I'lttsfield. Sept. 9 That Hie outlook
is encouraging was the annouiiecnent
made yesterday afternoon at the Office
oi the General electric plant follow
ing the conference between General
Manager Cummlngs C. fhesne and a
committee of employes, represent
it, il... t-...ll.... .U
........ ere i i u i t- i tutt-i iii i. en
i:ie inerciiaill s licKv it Jio ran nut . . . - .t . ...
. . . . J ' I '!1!1. II Hi 1 til lllHKIi I .it 11 Illlll' 1111 I
; ciiul i crnti'i m-i -tmi uu itt- iiii
' lined are rather bitter towards
ma !"ve started that way.
Whil ixi al board of health
at.- ..t. .. . lnl. ... ,.1 .1... .In
. .! (l,.'. ll,ll1 ' 111' 111
ineir iter i in miumir ine laicmr
i Ion of i lie entire population of
town
PARALYSIS AT WELLS
Go
To
Cim.vr Thnn
BERMUDA
Middle AtiniHir c i
RtMOrtl
For Your Vacation
8 Day
Tiii it 50
I nun t
A Up
lu i 'lulling A II IftPMSSS Mtonuirr, II
M miii si.i,. trips
ALL UHTUOOK SI-nRTl i v i i i i i st ,
Hull, l nuns, limiting.
Hntltlns. Cr line. MsMaa
S. S. "BermudiaiT
Balls from V. V.. slternate Weds. V St
Kor BoOklotl l) l t" IJnohn S. S. ( ii
3S llr, ml . m,. Yntk, ir sny TloktM
Mil
lug to private lire, lu fact, the care
and development of his farm proper- j
ties in Windsor county would consti
tute a sufficiently active life for most
men. but he prefers the field of public
service.
Fletcher a Fighter.
"Fletcher Is a lighter" has become
something of an axiom In political
cinles and certainly no man lu public
office In many decades has been reod-
ler to light In a just cause than Allen
M. Fletcher. He has not courted
fiahllng. lie has not Invited enmit
ies, but. once his conleilons were
live I. coercion, cajolery and conspir
acy hove all failed to swerve him from
a fixed course. Fears for his political
future, threats ot public Indignity,
bitter personal attacks nnd unbridled
public criticism have all been dlsre
gardedi so that he has today a set of
political enemies as finel organized
and us bitterly resolved to prevent
his further public service as anv so
moving itrtllleiy and men from Ihn
Verdun region to die. k Hie French f
tensive on Hie Somme.
the salient char
M Fletcher are
As n public official
acterlstlcs of Allen
tries ol Kurope
couruge. diligence, thoroughness, sys
tem, shrewdness. Independence, holies
ty and Integrity. JUthdttgb given to
breaking lulu new uolds and setting
new precedents, no Vermonter has a
higher regard for the ancient land
marks of the stale. Its consllutlon, Its
honorable and glorious history, Its
splendid traditions, ami Its men of
muh i and power. The honor of Ver
mont Is as dear to him as his own.
In notional affairs He stands for the
utmost degree of preparedness neCOt
sary to insure and enforce respect for
OUT country nnd our ting. Hhnllnrly.
be stands for our prosperity under rt
publloan V vcrnuioiit. holding unaltei
ably to Hie principle Hint the public
been of ureal benefit to the slate. The
people of Vermont are beginning to
realize Hint at least one governor hud
the courage and determination to do
what he could toward Hie purpose so
eloquently described by Judge Wen
dell P. Stafford, win m be Is a late .id
drear, said:
' In our courts. w want the slmpl
Case of Plague Repoitcd From Lake
St. Cathorine Recort.
l.uke St. Catherine. Sept. fi. A rase
of Ituantlle iinralvsis has !cw loncd mi
J the 1 licks cottnge on U)C west shore
of the lake, the patient beitu Mav
Ini the departments affected by tlie! Cook of New Kochelle. ff. Y.. seven
strike. The conference lasted lioni : ! v's M 1 asc Is said to be a
ocolck until 4.45. and will be con- j mlh' one
llnue.l this afternoon at :: o'clock. No I DT. 0. S. Caverly of liutianu. nrOl
announcement as to the result of the drut of the state hoard of health, and
Edwsrd Taylor of Burlington, dir
ector of research work In Vermont for
i tiiiiiouiii t-iiii-iii .is in uu retsiin til i in
I he result Is history, and. despite ,..lflrm.m.,. ls lTl,miM , ,,,,, ,.,. , Hr
the fullure of the end. has already mittOe has reported to the various w
i..,. . ..,... i.... ..tit ... .1... -1 .... . i ..
unions at sessions today,
Deepite the additional police pro
lection, the number of men at work
al the plant yesterday was much
Smaller than on previous days. This
decrease in numbers Is not denied by
the plant, aud Is due largely to the
fear of the men Mio have unit that
they will he assaulted. I roni J'1 t.ii
Hie Rockfeller institute In New fort
have examined the afflicted child.
e st forms of procedure consistent with I ;.,H(,S , ,,,,,,, w,10 i,V1 ,,,, ,.,
clely for remisal In Hie i.uiu conn 1 iniorest must he served Jiefore Hie
Hie pieservatlon of legal rights. Mn
speediest trials tint folrneis can per
mit. Hie promptest decisions, pro
vided only and always that they be
well weUhed, We hope to put an end
to frlvob us appeals and to the grant
ing of new trials where the resull
was right In fore. We .i.ean to make
It pCMlblo lor the trorest suitor ti
have his cause tried by competent
Counsel, even il 'he nmle must pro
vide in such ens. i h pebUO prosecutor,
and we me.. n to mob it Impossible for
th, riehtej llilianl i.i 'ire hu tdver
sary o i, and rob litttl by deity.".--From
the Itrattleboro Hefornier.
ell up luice
lie.'.
been re; orlcd to Hie DO
BOY MAKES BALLOON ASCENT
Freetnont Ross, 18, Takes Place of
Aeronaut Killed.
Rutland) Sept. 7. Taking the plMt
of Samuel A. I.lbby, the ueronaut who
was k It Itil here yesterday. Freeinont,
at 18yearold son of .Mm m i. Ro
of Ibis city, today made an ascent io
n hot air balloon attlie fair and suc
cessfully descended with n single pan;
chute from a heigh! or l.r.uii feet. It
was his first balloon trip.
.' ... -I I 111. It II l t ill c
Arlington. t.. Aug. fi. HUH.
titisib cjt- cnnnLts c. utw
State ol Vermont
Distriit of Beniuigton ss.
The Honorable Probate Court
the District Aioresald:
To all persons Interested In the
UU of Charles H Hewey Iste of I
i.. . a.. m A .
1 1 1 1 1 'i. i mi n hi i iki ni i riiof'fi.i
QRBBTINQ
WUBRBAA said Court bos
lUlll'i; I 111' .i 1 111 l-Dll'Il
next for vanunlni; alltiwiug
.'I ir !. """I 1
and I d-Vroe of ii partial U
i on of the resbllie of -aid estal
. i in ii" i i i.iisn.ints or the same
Mini Hi : i rn . H.. Scot. '.!.- Lee l.lll . . i,l. , I lieu nillllle nntic i llierei
itxtt .. .1. . - . . . . . . . . . a ...
" - . ,,, ,.iV- I 11 .ll- Bl, 111 III It . V1SII S I III' I'MI'I
. ,.o r,,-t n,i ffsiaie ui (iikiiiiiiiiii1 emt tuner u
killed lodaj b) I wo auto handils who weeks -im l.o.T pievious t
escaped with $12,000 which Uankln I m the llennlngtnn F!
U K I'D l' ill . if., lit I',.. 1 t I.. ' i... It . ..1 li.l....
inlmne. I he bandit, escaped. . Ucmlngion In said Dlstrlcl.
i TII FK F CORF., yon are hereby
.11 I . . i .M . .1 . 1 ..!... 1
IIIICll ill .i(i'i-ui tftl liu- I ini;i'' 1 1
' In Itennington in satti ntstritt. on
ncd. then and there to
you see cause, and to establish
i miit as in ii s, leaatees nun ia
claimant to said residue
AUTO BANDITS CET $12,000
Hold Up nrd Kill Superintendent
Ohio W.nc.
of
NORTH BENNINGTON
The morning worship will be held
It Ult CongrogaUona) ohtiroh at n
o'clock on Sunday, the pastor preach
log On the rubjeet of 'Obllnuii u "
The Sunday school w ill be omitted nr
the present Remember the midweek i nien ruder My Hand, this
meeting on Thursday erenlng. The 'lay of August, 1!H1. Amy II.
subject Is "Cbrlsl nnd Other Masters ' bour. Register.
