don't care to have the crawfish substituted for the American Eagle; therefor JH
I I am for Hughes George Ade. jfl
r : r v
Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 4, 1916 No.-ff
TO VOTERS 1
jl By C. C. Goodwin. , f H
I vxfcHE election, national and state, is but three days distant. What are the records of the two great parties from which voters L
rt Cj should choose between the " Hl
If Si, The country had been - r Republican direction from the time the last previous Democratic administration left.it strand- Hl
ed and helpless in 1897 until 1913. RH
In that time it advanced in wealth, in prosperity, in prestige an d power, as no other country ever did in the same length of time
: since civilization on earth began. " 11
It had the admiration and respect of all the world; it was the one land the poor and oppressed turned to in confidence and hope. iH
In those years it had received one million immigrants annual ly, mostly poor people, had assimitated them and given them employ- JJ
ment at generous wages. H
The two chiefest reasons to accomplish that result were that it had demonstrated that while the American nation loves peace, il Inl
must be peace with perfect honor, and, second, that as a nation it had determined that her royal army of toilers should never be placed HI
in direct competition with the pauper workers of outside civilized nations, or semi-servile, unschooled and unclothed workers of "semi- IH
savage lands. HI
There was a three-fold reason for this. One was that all, poor and rich alike, might be educated; second, that our country might be HI
able, in a stress, to produce any needed thing, in peace or war, with in itself, and, that as the volume of money in circulation in any U
country regulates the price of products, every dollar possible should be kept at home. HI
r Nations like stars have aberations in their orbits, and four years ago the party in power was dismembered and the rule of the land HI
passed to a minority party. HI
; Despite its promises that minority party proceeded at once to tear down every protection that had been drawn around our toilers; l
and to comfort them, told them that they now had "industrial freedom," which meant they might compete on even terms with the l
breech-clouted ex-slaves of Cuba or starve. II
The party in power had done the same thing more than once when in power, and always with the same result, namely, to, paralyze IH
the nation's industries, destroy its home market and drain the land of money. IH
Its effort was at once apparent, in excessive imports, decreased exports, sending of money abroad for what should have been produced IH
at home, and a swift increase in the number who could not find employment. IH
; An unexpected, unparalleled, mighty war with its wholly artificial and unexpected demands, restored work to the enforced idle men, HI
and brought to us a feverish, unnatural prosperity and now the party in power points to that unnatural prosperity and claims the credit llH
of it, though the fact is manifest that except for the self-supporting policies of their predecessors, our people could not have met at all IH
this artificial demand. IH
When the Republican party was in power, in a port belonging to Spain, an American ship of war was blown up and sunk with most IH
I of her crew. IH
For that our people never rested until the arm of Spain was broken and all hen colonial possessions taken from her. HI
i, When the certain truth was carried to the present president of our country, that more than two hundred Americans had been as- HH
sassinated in Mexico and their property confiscated, his only response was a message to Americans in that country, to leave what they HH
had and get out of that country if they could and later he added that he was "too proud to fight." HH
i i We arc told that he has kept us out of war, but the result of his policy is that not one nation on earth either respects or fears the II
United States. HH
' We need not rehearse the history of his official performances; his bluffing; his craw-fishing; his bombastic exordiums, the pitiful fiat- IH
tcning out of his perorations; his insidious appeals to the cowardice of his countrymen; the prostituting of his high office and the sover- Rffl
'cignty of the great republic of which he is chief magistrate, to gain votes for himself, and his grandstand plays which events have demon- MM
' strated were merely to minister to his egotism, vanity and ambition. HI
The people will judge and will keep in mind that all the signs point to manifold dangers to the nation when the war in Europe shall HH
. close; whe- the hordes of poor will be turned this way; when to begin to make up the war's losses a trade war will be organized against Kfl
r our country. Then no grandstand plays will count, no shuffling, no dramatic performances will be in order then; then the steadiest IH
kind of brains, the most resolute of hearts will be needed. fl
Turning to our own state of Utah, what do we see? It does not require a very old person to remember how Utah was when it came H
' under Republican rule and to mark the changes since. J
There have been some school houses built, have there not? Some temples to religion; to industry; to justice; to mercy in the form JOM
I of hospitals; to educational institutions; to charity: the conditions in cities has been improved, streets paved, sewers constructed, trans- ffll
1 portation improved ani wonderfully increased in the products carried; irrigation much extended and new lands brought under cultiva- IH1
