TO THE ADVERTISER
"A
labor paper of 2,000 circulation is
a. better advertising medium than* an
ordinary paper of J2,000 circulation*"
Printers Ink, the highest authority on
advertising mediums.
VOL. 23, NO. 64.
From Superior come reports of
Wisconsin going solidly Democratic.
According to Peter Cadigan, hun­
dreds of Republicans axe going to
-^-desert their party this year and vote
for Wilson.
I.ONG BRANCH, N. J., Nov. 2.—
Henry Ford, auto manufacturer, an­
nounced he had established the wo­
men workers in his plants on the
same basis as the men.
Ford officials emphasized that the
plan must not be regarded as philan­
thropic. They expressed conviction
tht the principle will be vindicated
from an economic standpoint, and
pointed to the last annual statemet
of the company as proof of he finan­
cial success of the v5 minimum plan.
The financial statement, covering
the year ending July 31, showed net
profits of approximately $60,000,000.
Of 48,870 employes, the statement
Showed 36, 32t5 received $5 or more
per day.
PARIS CARMEN
GO ON STRIKE
PARIS, France, Nov. 2.—A strike
of street car employes, which began
in the suburbs is spreading. Few
cars are running. The strike is due
tp the high prices of food and in­
sufficient wages, especially to women,
who receive 5 francs daily.
EVER THINK OF FOOD,
CLOTHING, ETC., DOC?
CINCINNATI, Nov. 2.—Auto­
mobiles, not germs, are to blame
for infantile paralysis, Dr. Thom­
as F. Hartington, Massachusetts
deputy commissioner of labor,
told the American Public Health
association. "Infantile paralysis
Is due to gases and fumes given
off by the coinbustiqn of oils and
fluids '~sed in automobiles," Dr.
Hartington declared.
A,,
'"it!.?1
EXULTANT STATEMENT IS
ISSUED AT HEADQUARTERS
In the first authoritative statement issued since the beginning of
the campaign, Harris Bennett, member of the Democratic County
Committee gave The Labor World the following exclusive interview:
"The Democrats will carry St. Louis county, ilr. Makowsky, our
chairman estimates that we will carry the county by a vote of 1,600
to 2,000. We are pleased with the outlook.
"The Iron Range will vote solid for the Democratic ticket. This
is largely due to Thomas Dwyer's speeches there a week or so ago.
He talked to the miners and workers straight from the shoulder and
told them a lot of truths. They know what the issues of this cam­
paign are.
"There is no doubt but what Minnesota will go Democratic.
"The workers of America know the issues of this campaign just
as well as I do. If they want injustice, injunctions and decisions
like the Danbury Hatters' decision, elect Hughes.
"If they want justice and the eight-hour day and the placing of
the man above the dollar, elect President Wilson.
"It is up to them.
"Already one can see the effect of^"
tjhe- Adamson eight-hotir
Adamson eight-hotir law. Em
illoyera all over the country are vol­
untarily granting their employes the
short work-day.
"The impetus the Adamson law
gave the eight-hour day movement
and the help it gave labor through its
moral effect alone is a worth while
accomplishment for any administra­
tion.
"But the result is now in the hands
of America's workers."
W
Cadigan has been making speeches
tie last three days to dock workers.
Previous to this he toured the state.
''Many former Republicans are go­
ing to wte for Wilson this year be­
cause they believe he is a true pro­
gressive and represents the princi­
ples which they stand for.
"If the sentiment of the farmers
is a good indication of the sentiment
of the people in this state, Wilson
Will sweep Wisconsin."
CHICAGO^ Nov. 2.—The 3,700 em­
ployes of the People's Gas Light and
Coke company, here, who receive less
than $200 a month will receive a 10
per cent advance in wages and sal­
aries beginning Nov. 1„ it is an­
nounced.
The increase affects 3,700 Employes
and adds another $350,000 to the an­
nual payrolls of the company, raising
the wage item to $4,050,000.
"A month ago it became evident
that our salaried employes were fight­
ing an uphill battle, with die load
getting heavier as the cost of living
mounted," E. G. Cowdery,- president,,
said. "The announcement just made
is a result of our deliberations from
that time to this.
"The discontent was not open, but
it became evident to us that if the or­
ganization was to be held together
some action was necessary."
MRENTfM
WINNIPEG, Nov. 2 —Three cent
lighting by the city's lighting plant
brought a total revenue of nearly
$1,000,000 for the last year, according
to the annual report for the year, end­
ing April 30, 1916, just made public
The profits, aft'er deducting for in­
terest on bonds, depreciation, taxes
(which the city does not have to pay),
and extraordinary contingencies, were
$79,729.67.
The plant now has a depreciation
reserve of $553,776.15. It is valued
at approximately $7,500,000.
The power plant is on the Winni­
peg river, 77 miles north of Winnipeg,
and the current is brought to the city
on high voltage wires supported on
steel towers.
Much of the money used in the con­
struction of the plant was obtained
from American financiers, who showed
no hesitation in extending credit for
the enterprise, although its rates are
less than half those of most privately
owned plants in the United States.
They hava not missed the receipt of
a single dollar of interest.
In 1906, with a privately owned
plant, Winnipeg was paying 20 cents
a kilowatt hour for electric current.
Today, under city ownership, the rates
run fr.om 3 cents to cent.
TYPO RECOVERING.
1
August Andel, member of the Typo­
graphical Union, local 136, is 'gradu­
ally recovering from an attack of
pleurisy, it was announced today.
Andel is in St. Mary's hospital.
fr-"V
TORONTO CARPENTERS
GET 50 CENTS HOUR
TORONTO, Ont.i Nov. 2.—Recent­
ly the, carpenters here struck for 45
cents an hour as a minimum. They
gained not only that battle but have
since been Uble to go employers one
better. The contractors that held out
agaliitit the1 men' are now.'signing up
atSOcents. I.i -many, Instances the
men are .being paid as high as 55
cents an hour.
FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE, ECONOMIC R$|F 0^M A N1 POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULTJTH AND SUPERIOSE, |IQ^£MB£B
PRESIDENT WILSON VISITING WITH TRAINMEN IN CHICAGO
V* vs ,, vf ^ABZyi-i
DON'T LET THEM FOOL YOU!
Hughes has said that if the eight-hour law had not been passed, if the President had not acted
as he did, the strike would still have been avoided.
Remember, the strike order had been issued!
It was to become effective the morning of abor Day, September 4!. The sole reason that it did
not happen as scheduled was because the eight-hour law was passed September 2! And the railtvay
men are entitled to the eight-hour day.
This prompt action of the President and Congress—action proper and right—was opposed only
by the railway Magnates.
The eight-hour law saved from ruin a $200,000,000 apple crop, a $55,000,000 peach crop, a $220,
000,000 potato crop besides countless other crops too numerous to mention.
BUT AT THE TIME THAT THE^AILROAD STRIKE WAS IMMINENT DID YOU HEAR A
PEEP FROM MR. HUGHES, MR. TAFT, MR. ROOSEVELT OR ANY OTHER REPUBLICAN*
SUPPOSING-THE STRIKE HAD BEEN CALLED!
WHERE WOULD YOU HAVE SECURED YOUR FOOD?
Sixty-nine Republicans in the House out of 125 present and voting, voted for the Eight Hour
Law. At three separate times it might have been killed by a single objection to consideration by a Re­
publican Senator.
Will these Republicans dare repudiate their action and join Mr. Hughes in his attack on President
Wilson?
DON'T LET THEM FOOL YOU!
President V.... .Woodrow ,Wilson
.Vice Pres... Thomas R. Marahlill
•V.. S. Senator .banfel W. LStwler
Governor .. .Thomas' Dwyer
Iiieut. Goivernor Julius Thorscit
Legislature—.
John Jcitisen. v'
Albert Mefdahl.
Fred:Bessette.
Charles T. Murphy.
WpinW Bernard.' b-
*.
it .l i.-i J,-
.sSIS
I
-\*-y-C ""v ,o"
y^fc'yV' "v.... ..w.iV'v
4,1916.
—Photo, by. Chicago Sally. New*.
AIDS STRIKING
N. Y. CARMEN
NEW YORK, Nov. 3.—William 25a
raiikb, business agent for the House
Wreckers' union, has placed 450
striking car men as helpers to wreck­
ers at 12.25. a day for'eight hours.
Men with nerve and ability can earn
14. a day. The wreckers* ,uriior is a
recently orgnized body, chartered by
the/American Federation of IAbOr.
r\
S
-.4|
But our good friends psychology
can be used.
'After reading the Colonel's "speech,
full of "I" and calamity howling, sev­
eral votes may be psychologized, or in
other words drugged into believing
that Charleft Evand Hughes, who ren­
dered the Danbury Hatters decision,
is a "friend of the workingman."
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2.—The case
of children of. unmarried parents will
soon bei placed before' the people of
the United States.
The children's bureau of the labor
department is now tabulating statis­
tical reports from all parts of the
country, bearing on the problems of
illegitimacy and a comprehensive re­
port will be. Issued. "It 'ill then be
up to the public," said Mrs. Helen I*
Sumner, assistant chief of the bureau.
"Our bureau will make no recommen­
dations."
The statistics will not include the
number or even the approximate num­
ber of illegitimate children In the
United ^States. Such figures are im­
possible of attainment.
While recommendations for special
legislation are not within the scope of
the bureau, the feeling exists that
some legislative action, 3uch as the
Swedish system, tending to bestow full
legal rights on nameless children,
should-be in force in this country.
The bureau, rerort will also deal
with the relation of Illegitimacy to de­
pendency, Ihfant mortality, private
and public guardianship and mental
deficliifcy:"
A GOOD TRADE UNIONIST
Blult
LEATHER WORKERS UNION
PRES. JAILED AT WARSAW
NEW YORK, "Noy. 3.—Thousands of workers and others have
again been arrested in Odessa, Moscow, Petrograd and other Russian
cities. Opposition, to the war, political conspiracies, desertions, agita­
tion against the high cost of food, for more wages, and other causes,
-are given. The authorities have exercised unusual vigilance to
prevent news of the arrests from filtering through the strict censor­
ship that is being maintained, but some of the details have reached
Sweden and Switzerland through smuggled letters and statements
given out by travelers. As an indication of how keenly the police
are striving to check the growth of dissatisfaction, it may be said
that the office of Novoe Yremya, a government newspaper, was
searched fbr incriminating documents and several printers were
detailed.
In Warsaw, one of the two ^city councilmen elected on the Socialist
ticket, was airested. His name could not be secured because of the
strict censorship. The information sent herewith has been smuggled
opt: by code.
'-'•'Vv- -—.i 1 i- 1 —i The Germans, who have control of
Duluth Corrugated and Roofing
Company, Sutphin and St. Croix ave­
nues, wants its employes to vote for
Charles Evans Hughes.
They circulated copies of Roose­
velt's Wilkes-Barre speech among
their employes the other day when
the men were paid off.
On the margin of every copy was
written in red Ink: "You are expected
to read this."
Get it? "Read it" They don't
dare tell them to. vote for what
Roosevelt stands for....
They want them "to read it."
To tell them to vote for Hughes
would be using the methods of *96.
But this is 1316 and workitigmen
have a little more sense.
always be Intelligently in-
tfe\IK)l^^ formed of the movements of bis
x%«Avi ,.
wn kind.
TWO CENTS.
Warsaw, are using extreme measures
to suppress.' agitation by labor meii
and Socialists. The arrested coun­
cilman is president of the Warsaw
Leather Workers* i.nion.
A movement for a conference of
national federations of labor, was
started recently by several Italian
unions. The conference w-as to be
held in Switzerland but the organiza­
tions in the latter country objected
on grounds that the meetinw would
not be representative. It is probable
that the federation in some of the
other countries will agree to hold an
informal gathering at some lator date..
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa., Nov. r..—
The Rochester & Pittsburg. Coal &
Coke Company, whose mines here ore
closed by a strike of 2,a00 miners,
announced today that suit would be
filed against each miner, and the
local unions of which they are mem­
bers, asking damages because of the
suspension.
The company's lawyers are framing
the petition, which alleges that tho
men violated their agreement, signed
April 15 in Philadelphia, when they
quit work, demanding a new scale.
The petition contends that the
United Mine Workers are as liable
for breach of contract as any respon­
sible corporation or individual. The
suit, officers of the company said,
was based on the decisions in the
Danbury Hatters' case.
STREET CARMEN STRIKE
JACKSONVILLE, Fia., Nov. 3.—
Street car men in this city are on
strike for union recognition. They
also demand that discharged. union­
ists be reinstated and that an arbi­
tration board be established to fix the
wages, hours and working conditions.
MWAMARA TO
ASK FOR PAROLE
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 3.—John
J. McNamara, serving a 15-year sen­
tence in San Quentin for the Los
Angeles Times dynamiting, probably
will appear before the state board
of prison directors Saturday and
make a personal plea for parole.
THE "GIFT" 0FM1DAS
High cost ot living has readied
the highest point in our history,
says the City National Bank in
its general letter 03 trade con­
ditions and business forecast, just
issued.
"As long as our unusual for­
eign trade," says the letter, "con­
tinues to bring large imports of
gold into this country, generally
high prices may be expected.
Oct. 1 Bradstreet's index of
commodity prices stood at IllOi,
the highest point ever readied.
•This compares with' $11.79 a
month ago, and |t.M on Oct 1
a fear ago.**'
i'i
