POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1916
TWENTY PAGES 160 COLUMNS -
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double Thai of Any Othlrf Paper, and Its Total Circulation is: the ; Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.:
VOL LV1II. NO. 266
isMhMM
RUMANIAN
IS SLOWLYYIELDIG
To the Blows of the Austro-German Artillery and
Infantry South of Krenstadt
' -i .
TEUTONS FIGHTING TO ENTER PLAIN OF RUMANIA
East of Predeal the Rumanians Have Driven the Invaders
Back Over the Frontier in the Region of Table Butzi
They Have Also Advanced Along the Transylvania
Border Southeast of Kronstadt Berlin Announces
the Repulse of Seven Russian Attacks Near Halicz, in
Galicia The French Have Made Slight Gains in Sailly
and the British Have Taken a German Trench East' of
Guedecourt Fort Vaux, in the Verdun Region, Has
Been Occupied by the French.
Violent fighting' continues to mark
the Austro-German attempts to pene
trate the plain of Rumania south of
Krenstadt and Hermannstadt -&nd to
ward Bucharest. The stiff defense of
the Rumanians is yielding slowly to
the blows of Austro-German artillery
and infantry about Predeal. and Ber
lin announces further progress south
of the border for them.
East of Predeal, however, the Ru
manians advancing in the Buzeu val
ley have driven the invaders back
over the frontier in the region of Ta
ble Butzi. They also have taken
Mount Siriui and Taturumlo. along
the Transylvanian border southeast of
Kronstadt. South of Hermannstadt in
the region of Rothenthurm pass the
Austro-Germans have extended their
lines and captured an additional 350
prisoners. West of Rothenthurm and
in the Prahova valley the Rumanians
are holding their ground.
On the eastern front fighting has
taken place east of Kovel. in Volhynia,
PRESIDENT WILSON WILL
, CLOSE CAMPAIGN TODAY
With Speech at Shadow Lawn to Peo
ple from His Home State.
Long Branch. N. J., Nov. 3. Presi
dent Wilson will close his campaign
for re-election tomorrow with a speech
at Shadow Lawn to people from his
home state of New Jersey. For sen
timental reasons he wants to make
his last campaign address to the. peo
ple of the stats in which he began
political career.
Many in me president's audience
tomorrow will be political and per
sonal friends of long standing. For
this reason he has promised to state
hla views more completely than be
fore during the campaign. Democrats
from different parts of New Jersey
' have arranged to come on special
trains.
In his speech the president will ex
press confidence in the outcome of
the voting next .Tuesday. Mr. Wil
son has no engagements before elec
tion. He feels that the issues are made
up and that most of the peopie have
determined how they will vote.
After his return from New York to
day, the president received a mes
senger from Victor Carlstrom, the
. aviator who made a flight from Chi
cago to New York bearing a letter
to Mr. Wilson from Mayor Thompson
of Chicago. I
RUBBER COMPANIES TO
CONSTRUCT FOUR BALLONS
For Balloon Division of the Army's
4 Aviation Corps.
Washington, Nov. 3. Offers of va
rious rubber companies to construct
four balloons, which will be the first
equipment of the recently created bal
loon division of the army's aviation
corps, were taken under consideration
today by the war department. Two
of the balloons will be of the ordinary
free flight type and the other two kite
or captive balloons for observation
purposes. Satisfactory prices are said
to have been quoted, but- awards will
not be made until all the proposals
have been carefully examined.
The department also is considering
specifications for several smaller types
or rigid and non-rigid dirigible Dal
loons, but as yet no steps have been
taken towards the construction of
huge craft similar to the German Zep-
Delins.
The four balloons to be ordered first
will be used only for instruction pur
noses and as a trained personnel is de-
' veloytd additional lighter than air
craft of various types will be ordered.
Eventually balloon squads or com
panies will be added to the mobile
units of the aviation corps.
HAS MANIFE8T OF CARGO
OF THE D EUTSC HLAN'D
Collector of Customs McGovern De
clines to Make It Public.
Bridgeport, Conn., Nov.' 8. Collector
of Customs James L. McGovern of this
citv. whose district Includes all of
Connecticut. acknowledged tonight
that he had the manifest of the cargo
of the German merchant submarine
Deutschland, but he positively declined
to make public any information re
yarding it. ' .
It was onlv after haviner been press
ed that Collector McGovern would say
even that he had the manifest. A
first he "would acknowledge the re
celt of no manifest." Asked how the
Deutschland was permitted to enter
New London without the customary
so-caHed bill of health, which has a
manifest attached, he finally said ilie
submarine had the bill of healind
that the manifest had come to Wm.
"It Is a private matter," he said,
"and besides the government rules
don't allow me to make it puonc.
Movements of Steamship.
Copenhagen, Nov. 1. Arrived!
Eteaxner tFredertk VIII., New York.
DEFENSE
and southeast of Lemtoerg, in Galicia.
Berlin announces the repulse of seven
Russian attacks against Austro-Ger
man positions on the left bank of the
Narayuvka river, near Helicz in Ga
licia, while Petrograd says the Rus
sians have re-occupied part of their
trenches on the west bank of the Stok-
kod in the region of Kiselin, in Vol
hynia. Near Lipnicadolna. In Galicia,
the Russians have pushed back the
Austro-Germans in some places.
There have been no heavy actions on
the Somme front. The French have
made slight gains at Sailly and the
British have taken a German trench
east of Gueudecourt. Fort Vaux, in
the Verdun region, has been occupied
by the French, following its evacua
tion by the Germans.
Although fighting continues at va
rious points along the Macedonian
front from Lake Presba to Lake Ta
hinos, there has been little change in
the general situation. British troops
have taken Alitsa, on the left bank
f the Struma, from the Bulgarians.
ROOSEVELT AT MASS
MEETING IN COOPER UNION
Urges Election, of Hughes as a
Straitf orward, Courageous Man.
New Tork, Nev? 8. Theodore- Roose"
velt, speaking -at -a. -mass -meeting1" Iff"
Cooper Union here tonight, denounc
ed the policies of the Wilson adminis
tration and urged his audience to put
in the presidential chair the clean and
upright justice of the supreme court,
the fearless former governor of New
York, whose whole public record has
been that of a man straightforward in
hi sthcught and courag)us in his ac
tions, who cannot be controlled to do
what is wrong and who will do what
13 rifht no matter whnt influences may
be brought against htm."
Tho former president broke awav
from his speech which he had prepar
ed in advance to say that he thought
of the so-called "Hyphenates." He
declared that although Washington and
Lincoln were of English blood, they
were both Americans through and
through.
io American can be a srood Amer-.
inn on' a fifty-fifty basis," said Colonel
Roosevelt. "There is no room in this
country for English-Americans, German-Americans,
French-Americans,
Irish -Americans or any other kind of
Americans but real Americans."
Colonel Roosevelt in referrine to
Secretary Baker's recent alleged com
parison of Washington's .soldiers with
the constitutionalist forces in Mexi
co, said Mr. Baker was "an amiab'e
man who knits."-
Once during his speech when the
former president quoted from will of
George Washington In which the first
rrej-ici'nl bequeathed nts swords -o
his nephews and cautioned them not
to unsheathe them except for self-de-
itnse or for the defense of their coun
try, some one in the audience shout
ed: "Sounds like Wilson!"
Colonel Roosevelt paused for S. mo
ment and the voice in the audience
said:
"I mean Roosevelt."
Colonel Roosevelt smiled and con
tinued his speech. "When he had con
cluded he was driven to a theatre in
East Hour I in street, wnere he made
a brief address.
SEVEN CASES OF SMALLPOX
REPORTED IN WATERBURY
Persons Who Have Come In Contact
With Patients Ordered Vaccinated.
Waterbury, Conn.. Nov. 8. Seven
cases of smallpox were reported to the
health department today. One of the
patients, a 15 year old girl, was taken
fro mher bench at the Scovill Manu
facturing company's plant. She con
tracted the disease from a family liv
ing next door to her, every member of
which is suffering from the disease.
There are five cases in this family.
The other case is that of a high school
boy, a cousin of the family in which
the disease originated. The patients
ara under quarantine and two of them
are at the isolation hospital. Health
Officer Kilmartln has ordered that a
number of persons who came in con
ttfpt with the smallpox patients be
vaccinated at once.
RAILROADS OF MIDDLE WEST
ARE HOLDiING COAL CARS
Complaint Filed With Interstate Com.
meroe Commission.
New Tork. Nov. 8. -Complaint has
been filed by the Chesapeake and Ohio-
Railroad company with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, it was learned
here tonight, that railroads of the
middle west have refused to surrender
to that company 20,000 of its coal and
other cars. The Chesapeake and Ohio
claims that restoration of these cars
would enable the road sto aid in re
lieving the coal shortage and that It is
now hampered by the lack of cars in
moving coal from the mines of West
Virginia. . .- - .
Cabled Paragraphs .
British Warship at San Salvador.
La Libertad. San Salvador'ov. 8.
The British warship RainbV Ochored
In the Harbor here to ' re
ported that the w.V " Ger
man steamer off-f- -nas, Costa
Rica, but oflV fle Rainbow
would not ' -K s report.
Mrv ,xel Gets Injunction.
London -'Nov. 3. 12.20 p. m. Mrs.
Anthony J. Drexel today was granted
an interim injunction for a fortnight
by the -British courts on her applica
tion to prevent her husband - .from
serving her with papers in an action
in the French courts to obtain money
which the British courcs recently de
cided .belonged to her.
PROHIBITION CANDIDATE .'. .,
TRAVELED 20,000 MILES.
J. Frank Hanly Has Visited 34 States
Since Sept' 8.
Fort Wayne, Ind-. Nov. 3.-Old-home
trails were hit again today by J.
Frank Hanly, the prohibition presiden
tial candidate, when the dry party
special train came back to " Indiana
after visiting 34 states and traveling
almost 20.000 miles since Sept. 8.
Hanly again turned a broad ranee
of Are on state and national demo
cratic and republican candidates for
their silence on the ry issues. In
diana's two vice presidential candi
dates came in for particularly vigorous
attacks. Fairbanks, he insisted, aided
in packing the republican national
convention with liquor men so bis
party would appeal to vhe "liberal
vote." Of Vice President Marshall he
said that; Ira Landrith, the dry vice
presidential candidate, would, if elect-
ea, lift the office to which he asnired
from its present "pitifully low estate
to the proud position the.fathers in
tended it should occupy.'
unusual optimism over the nrohibi-
tionists' prospects marked Hanlv's
speeches.
"On this long journey," he said, "we
have found a response to our plans for
the cause such as no other man ever
heard. Over this" country we have
laid broad and deep the foundation for
victory.
"Give us 50,000 votes in "Irdiana'and
one million in the nation tb's year and
we will force one of the eld parties to
adopt a dry platform At its next con
vention, or we will lead a victorious
fight for a dry nation with another
party."
PRINT PAPER BEING MADE
AT LESS THAN AVERAGE COST
Facts Developed by Inquiry of Federal
Trade Commision.
Wash5on, Nov. 3. In aestate
ment tonight announcing virtual com
pletion of its investigation of news
print paper prices, the federal trad a
commission declares that during the
first half of this year, when prices
already were soaring to unprecedented
ntrnres, the average cost of nroducine
news print naiwr in domestic mills was
ies man S1.B5 per hundred sounds nr
below the average cpsjUjthe.i.asti
Trrr-of years.
The commission announces thathe-
fore issuinsr its report public hearinEri
wi'l be conducted and manufacturers,
publishers nnd others 'nteresed eiven
n onnortiinitv to arV"r. No date is
i"t for the hearings. ut the report Is
to be r"dv to send to the press
in he near future.
CVrtain fpcts developed by the in
quiry are made r"bMc now, -because
most of the publishers' contracts fo;
paper are aMit to emire. Contract
prices rose th's yea- from less than
current market purchases the pub
current marVet purchasers the pub
lishers have $7 or more for paper
boueht in th same wav p-ior to Jan'
nary 1 for between J2 and S3.
TOWN OFFICIALS FILING
SCHOOL ENUMERATION
Decreases Are Shown in Brooklyn
Franklin and Haddam.
Hartford, Conn.. Nov. 3. The offi
cials of the towns in the state have be
gun to file with the state comptroller
the school enumeration of their towns.
The state allows $.25 for each child of
school age enumerated. The enum
eration of fifteen towns has been filed.
Among the fifteen is Waterbury which
shows an enumeration of 24,001, or 1,
611 more than the enumeration for la3t
vear. Wethersfield has an increase of
4 and Plymouth 63. . A number of the
towns In the list show a decrease.
Barkhamsted has one less than it had
a year ago and Bolton nine less. There
has been a marked decrease in the
number of school children in Brook
lyn, the reduction being 30. Franklin
is less by twenty and Haddam where
the county home of Middlesex county
is located has fewer children by 32
than it had according to the last enum.
eration.
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT
Placed Before the Supreme Court Yes
terday for Decision.
Washington, Nov. 3 Constitution
ality of the federal reserve act, in so
far as it permits national banks to
act as executors, administrators, trus
tees and registrars of stocks and
bonds, was placed before the supreme
court today for decision. It came up
on an appeal filed 'by the First Na
tional Bank of Bay City, Mich, from
a decree of r the Michigan supreme
court prohibiting the bank from ex
ercising such functions.
The Michigan court's ruling was
made Sept. 26, .in a suit brought by
trust companies of Detroit and Grand
Rapids, who alleged that the federal
law operated to encroach upon their
business by placing them in compe
tition with national banks. The court
held that the laws of Michigan pro
hit national banks from acting in the
capacities mentioned and that con
gress exceeded its constitutional au
thority In giving such (powers. .
A LOAN Of $50,000,000
TO RUSSI AN GOVERN WENT
Has Been Negotiated by National City
Company of New -York. "
New Tork, Nov. 8. Negotiations
were completed today by a syndicate
headed by the National City company,
which Is controlled by the National
City Bank Interests, for a loan of
$50,000,000 to the Russian government,
the - proceeds of which will be used
principally for paying for war muni
tions. . The loan will be a direct obli
gation to tme Imperial Russian gov
ernment and . will bear Interest at
1-8 per cent.
Villa Bandits
Mutiilate Captives
SENDING THEM BACK WITH THEIR
EARS CUT OFF -
WARNING TO SOLDIERS
Refugee Had Seen Sixteen Carranza
Soldiers at Jimenez Whose Ears Had
Been Cut Off Santa Rosalia Looted.
El Paso, Texas. Nov. S. Villa ban
dits again are cutting the ears from
captive Carranza soldiers and then
sending them back to their commands
as a warning to other Carranza sol
diers, said a Mexican civilian refugee
who reached here today from Jimenez,
Chihuahua. He asserted he had seen
sixteen Carranza soldiers at Jimenef
whose ears had been cut off. ' ,
The refugee said he had been told
by one of the mutilated soldiers that
Villa bandits had cut off the ears of
82 Carranza soldiers at Santa Ro-
What Advertising Does
Like a great many others who saw Its value and proceeded to take
advantage of it, the late Joseph Beecham, of England, stands forth as
one of the great advocates of newspaper advertsing. He began life
as a poor boy but afterwards engaged in the manufacture of pills from
which he amassed a great fortune. He realized his opportunity for
developing his business lay in reaching the largest number of people
and after a long list of experiments he came to the conclusion that
the newspapers and magazines were the most satisfactory business
getting mediums. .
The result was that he stuck faithfully to them. He didn't try one
or two ads. and then stop, but he kept steadfastly at it and made his
name familiar in every household. At his death he was worth $140,
900,000 and it "was the direct result of his advertising.
Everyone of course cannot become a Beecham, but the lesson con
cerning advertising holds good for everyone who has something to sell.
Put fofth honest goods and let the people know, it every day. The
more that can be reached the better and when it comes to rendering
such service there is no medium in Eastern Connecticut which can
equal The Bulletin. ;;" ....
In the past week the following matter -has appeared in The'Bul-
letin's columns:
Bulletin
Saturday,
Monday,
, Tuesday;
Wednesday,
Telegraph Lfjcal . General
Oct. 28. . 76 62 1101
Oct. 30.. -134
Oct. . 31. . 89
Nov. 1.. 82
Nov. -XZ-CSCCL
Friday,
Total
Nov. 3 . . 94
555
salia. "These" sixteen soldiers, he said, will be a whirlwind day of more speak
had leached Jimenez from Santa Ro- ;ng in Nw Yck city. When the n.m
salia on their way to Torreon and had inee arrived here tonight he found that
reported that Villa bandits looted San-
ta Rosalia impressing many citizens ;
of that town.
THREE PASSENGERS SHOT
BY THE VILLA BANDITS
When They Fired
nto a Train' One
... . . "V vr wiiuuvtik IV IVi il-CM j. Litres
Was a Woman. day He told them there v as n-Ue
, . new he could say with regard to the
El Paso, Texas, Nov. 3. Passengers issues of the cam,paign. Gn nls trip
arriving from Chihuahua City on the down the Hudson River val!ey he
delayed passenger tram late last night. made the tariff one of tne chjef tnflnes
brought additional derails of the rob- of his speeches; here tonight he spoke
bery of the Mexican Central passenger j chjefly of .Americanism. "Let me say
train which left Juarez Monday. They to yoU; he told an audience in Brook
said three passengers were shot by i lyn the last he addres3dd tonight,
the Villa bandits when they fired into "that if I am elected president as I
the passenger train, one being a Mext- expect to me "
can woman. It was not known wnetn.
er thev were killed. The conductor.
who was shot through the hip, was
the son of an American, they said.
Three passengers reported that the
Carranza guards fought the Villa ban
dits and that eight of the guards es
caped, the 'remaining nine, including
Captain Guzman, being shot. The
passengers stated, however, that there
was a renort in Chihuahua City that a
number of Carranza guards had joined
the bandits.
Tne passengers connrmea tne re
port that passengers, both men and
women, were roDDed or tneir ciotning.
teing obliged to wr blankets and
even newspapers into Chihuahua City.
NO ENTENTE WARSHIPS
OFF BLOCK ISLAND.
Clmmander Stirling Discredits Rumors
Current in New London.
New London, Conn.. 'Nov. 3. Ru
mors were circulated here tonight of
the presence of British and French
cruisers off Block Island. No Man's
Land and Nantucket shoals, but there
was no confirmation from reliable
sources.
Commander Tates Stirling- of the
United States submarine base on the
Thames river placed no credence in
the reports. He said the tender
Bushnell and four United States sub
marines have been manoeuvering off
Block Island and adjacent waters for
two days and that if foreign warships
had been sighted a report would have
been made to him immediately.
Commander Stirling was ' Interested
in the report that the U-W was to
'convoy the Deutschland on her return
voyage, saying that it was a natural
thing for Germany to do. '
COERCION IS CHARGED BY
BROTHERHOOD PRESIDENT
To Prevent Railroad Men Voting for
' Re-election of Wilson.
Cleveland. - 0 Nov. 9. William G,
Lee, president of the Brotherhood of
Kauroaa rralnmen, today In a signed
statement, declared he had1 received In
formation that "the monied interests"
will undertake to have- railroad em
ployes and other workmen coerced,
bribed or bought away from their in
tention or desire to. vote for the . re
election of President Wilson. -
He declared his belief that the reported-project
will -fall to -obtain, re-autta.
Hughi
Bs to Make
wind Windup
WILL MAKE FIVE, SPEECHES
" NEW YORK CITY TODAY
IN
BIG RALLY AT NIGHT
Repeats His Promise That if Eletced
Country Will Have an American Ad
ministration Exclusively.
New York, Nov. 8. Charles E.
Hughes wound up his 28,000 mile pres
idential campaign tour with sixteen
strenuous hours of campaigning today
down the Hudson River valley and in
brooklyn. The nominee delivered nine
speeches, starting at 8.45 o'clock this
morning, and did not reach his hotel
until after midnight.
Program for Today.
Tomorrow, the last day of his cam
paign, was to have been a day of
rest with a big rally at Madison
Square Gaden at night. Instead, it
Total
1339
525
390
363
445
39
133 :
258
150
150
. 151 -r
"131
142 163
877 2029 3463
tne national committee naa speeded
up the campaign so that he will spend
virtually the entire afternoon touring
the city. Five speeches are on his
programme.
Confident of Victory.
In almost every speech todav and
tonight the nominee tcld his audiences
He got no farther for" the moment. A
man in the gallery yelled: "You will
be!" and the entire audience arose and
roared its approval of the interruption,
waving hundreds of American flags.
American Policies Exclusively.
"If I am elected president," the
nominee continued, "we shall have an
American administration with exclu
sively American policies, without any
deflection to serve any other interests.
Supreme must be America's interests
in the thoughts of the American peo
ple and supreme will be America's in
terests in an administration in my
charge."
In his tour through Brooklyn tonight
Mr. Hughes campaigned over ground
familiar to him as a boy. The first
meeting he addressed, in the 5reen
Point section, was within three blocks
of the Union Avenue Baptist church,
where his father once was pastor. The
streets through which he passed were
those on which' he had played as a
boy, he told the audience, and familiar
faces were among those who heard
him.
"I had many a generous welcome
and many a manifestation of enthu
siasm on my long triip," he declared,
"but best of all is the welcome here."
EXODUS OF VOTERS
FROM WASHINGTON
Government Clerks and Officials, Both
Democratic and Republican. ',
Washington, Nov. 3. The quadren
nlal exodus of voters temporarily res
ident has begun. Every, outbound train
carries them ana railroad agents con
servatively estimated today that more
than 3,000 voters' tickets had been
sold during the past few days with
many of those who live near still' to
be provided for. Among these voters
are government clerks - and officials.
both democratic and republican. Some
have been living and working in Wash
ington for years but still cling to their
rierht to cast a Danot in tneir nome dis
tricts at, least once every four years.;
Crucible Steel Strike Settled.
Jersey City. N. J., " Nov. 3. Four
hundred striking employes of the Cru
cible Steel company agreed today to
return to work on promise of an in
crease of seven- to. ten per cent, in
wages, time and a half for overtime
and double pay Sundays. They had
demanded a 15 per cent, increase. Nine
hundred men were made idle by the
Condensed Telegrams
- - - ...
Retail prices of coal were advanced
75" cents a ton in Boston.
Edsel Ford, only son of Henry Ford,
was married in Detroit to lss Eleanore
Clay. - ..."
The Havana Marine Railways, Inc,
has increased its capital from $2l0)00
to $500,000. :,.'-.-.,
General Smith Boiling, for 24 years
postmaster at Petersburg. Va, died,
aged 82 years.
: Antony Jannus of Baltimore, an
American aviator, was killed in the
Russian aero service. Oct. 12.
Seven hundred employes N of the
American Optical Co.'s lens factory at
Southbridge, Mass., went on strike.
- Twelve hundred shoemakers at the
plant of the National India Rubber
Co., of Bristol. R.-1., went on strike.
Harry J. Vreeland, a salesman of
Newark, N. J., was killed in an au'
tomobile accident, at Arlington, N. J.
Thomas R. Fox, the first man to
receive the Morse telegraphic code by
sound, died at his home in Pough
keepsie. The Louisville & Nashville Railroad
announced an embargo against the
movement of any of its coal cars north
of Cincinnati.
Five aeroplanes arrived at Bucha
rest from the Allied base on the Isle
of Imbros to protect the city from
German air raidds.
: : Joseph Castli and Frank Veteri, of
Brooklyn, convicted of killing Anna
Castelli at New Haven, were sentenced
to be hanged March 15.
Three persons were burned to death
and two others severelv injured, when
fire destroyed a roomiffe house at 1917
Norris Street, Philadelphia.
The weekly statement of the Bank
of France shows an increase of 70,040
francs in gold holdings and a decrease
of 1,952,000 francs in silver.
Burglars visited- the post office and
general store in Hawleyville, conduct
ed by E. C. Piatt Thursday night but
secured only a few pennies.
An increase of $8,000,000 in revenues
on 95 railroads for September was re
ported in returns made to the Inter
state Commerce Commisssion.
Four persons were injured when a
Ninth Avenue elevated train collided
with a Sixth Avenue train at Fifty-
third street and Ninth Avenue.
Three young girls -were probably
hurt and seventeen other children in
jured when a trolley struck a school
hack at Como, near Portland, Oregon.
George A. Rich was appointed by the
governing committee of the ' Boston
Stock Exchange, chairman and secre
tary to succeed George F. Lord, res
Thomas S. Williams of Wilkes-
Barre, confessed he had strangled to
death Ida Brown, whose body was
found two weeks ago in the Susque
hanna River.
Frank Stranq and William Rhodes,
former barkeepers, were arrested m
Richmond, Va., for drinking while on
an automobile trip in violation of the
new Pro'hobition law.
Five persons were injured one fo
them seriously when a southbound
Eighth Avenue car was rammed by a
westbound Eie-ht Avenue car at Tenth
and Hudson streets.
Prince von Hohenhole Schillingfurst,
the retiring Minister of Interior in the
Austrian Cabinet, was received in au
dience and decorated with the Iron
Cross of the first class.
The Reichstag has adopted a pro
posal for the establishment of a cen
tral military bureau to examine com
plaints asrainst the censorship imposed
by the military authorities.
With his head bandaged in towels
and jammed into a susar barrel. Frank
Sobicek was found dead in the cellar
of his home at Sayville, L. I., Near
by lay a bottle of chloroform.
Two men were injured and several
shaken up when Hook and Ladder
Truck No. 8. on the way to a fire m
Lispenard Street, New York, crashed
into a Canal Street car at Broadway.
Representatives of all the great coal-
carrying roads of Ohio, Pennsylvania
and West Virginia will be present at
the Interstate Commerce commission s
Investigation, which began at Louis
ville yesterday.
It was intimated at the State De
partment that the United States Gov
ernment had protested to, France
against the use cf the phrase 'Ameri
can Aviation Corps" in official com
munique. ,
A verdict of $40,000 was given Mrs,
Natalie Jewett, of Buffalo, in her
damage suit against the New Tork
Central Railroad as the result of the
death of her husband a year ago, when
his machine was hit by a train.
Several employes of Baniford Broth
ers, silk manufacturers in Paterson
and Belvidere. N. J., were injured when
an engine on the Lehigh & Hudson
railroad struck an automobile truck
carrying twenty operators to the Bel
videre plant.
County Judge Royr in Brooklyn, de
nied the application of Charities Com
missioner John A; Kingsbury and Wil
liam H. Hotchkiss, lawyer, to Inspect
the gTand Jury minutes which resulted
In their indictment in the 'phone-tap
ping scandal. t ,
Two men, father and son, said to be
members of an internationally, known
band of counterfeiters, were arrested
by United States secret service agents
in Brooklyn. Chief William J. Flynn,
of the secret :service, . personally di
rected the capture.
COUNTERFEITERS SENTENCED
TO FEDERAL PRISON
Six Foreigners Had Been Making
Spurious $5 and $10 Bills. .'
New York, Nov.' 3. Six foreigners
arrested nere last August by federal
officers and charged . with . making
counterfeit Ave and ten dollar bills
were today sentenced in the federal
court to terms of three and five years
In the federal prison at Atlanta, Ga.
Two pleaded guilty ' and their confes
sion led to the conviction, of the oth
ers. - s .
irtstf ifTtfWsrfr asif ri"sTi-lil
PRE-ELECTION FRAUDS ARE ALLEGED
fraudulent Registration and
Lists Has Been
60,000 NEGROES TRANSPORTED FROM- SOUTH
Ohio, Indiana and Illinois are the States Named in Which the
Department of Justice Declares Illegal Acts Have Been
Unearthed Official Announcement Made That Actual
Cases of Fraud Have Been Discovered by Investigators
Statement Issued Gives Warning That Conspiracies to
Intimidate Voters Will be Promptly Prosecuted.
Washington. Nov. 3. An official es-
-,iiiu.k,3 luci ov.utfij iieriea nave oeen
transported recently from the south
into Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and other
states was made by the department of
justice tonight in a statement declar
ing that a number of the negroes have
fraudulently registered and that other
election frauds disclosed include pad-
amg: or registration lists reaching into
thousands of false names in one city
alone.
The statement, issued with the sanc
tion of Attorney General Gregory, gives
warning that conspiracies to intimi
date voters wilr be promptly prose
cuted. It is the department's first
official announcement that actual cases
of fraud have been developed by its
investigators.
Provisions of Law.
"Among other provisions of law."
says the statement, "section 19 of the
penal code makes it an offense against
tne united is tates lor two or more
persons to conspire" to Intimidate any
citizen in the free' exercise or enjoy
ment of any right or privilege secured
to nim Dy the constitution, and the
laws of the United States, or to pun-
isn mm lor naving exercised such
rights, and the courts have held that
one of the rights so secured is the
right to vote for federal officers and
to have votes fairly counted and the
result -correctly returned. Conspira
cies to intimidate voters in the free
exercise of the right of vote for fed
eral officer? are violations Tf federal
law. Such a conspiracy need not be
consummated, and even an overt act
is not essential, nor Is violation con
fined to act3 of physical violence. The
development of such conditions will
result in prompt prosecutions.
"United States district attorney and
investigators have been instructed to
be fair and non-partisan in investi
gations and prosecutions.
60,00Q:J( eoroes-Jjneperted.
Information--" recetved'Tijr'lhe de
partment of justice chows that within
the last three months approximately
60,000 negroes have bee ntransported
irom certain southern states to north
era and western states, mainly to mid
dle western states, particularly Ohio,
FAITH IN SOLVENCY OF .
GREAT BRITAIN AND FRANCE
Is Expressed by Henry P. Davison of
J. P. Morgan & Co.
Chicago. Nov. 3. Honrv P. Davison
of J. P. Morgan and Company, New
York, tonight told bankers of Chicago
and the middle west what he . had
learned of the credit situation in Eu
rope on his recent trip there aod its
effect on financial affairs in this coun
try. Mr. Davison and Charles H. Sa-
bin, president of the Guaranty Trust
company of New York, were guests of
George M. Reynolds, president of the
Continental and Commercial National
Bank, at a dinner attended by a score
of lending bankers of the middle west.
While the meeting was confidential,
it was known that one thing talked of
was the necessity of a liberal policy of
extending credit to the European
countries buying American products.
The suggestion of a greater use of ac
ceptances in extension of credits was
also discussed.
Earlier in the evening Mr. Davison
emphasized his faith in the solvency
of Great Britain and France. He de
nied a published report that a demand
would be made by the entente allies
that Americans accept unsecured loans
or face the demonetization of gold.
DEUTSCHLAND'S CARGO
HAS BEEN DISCHARGED
Nothing Has Been Made' Public Con
cerning Its Nature.
New London, Conn., Nov. 3 Officials
of the Eastern Forwarding company
announced that the Deutschland's car
go was discharged at two o'clock this
afternoon. Great care was exercised
to prevent outsiders from seeing tUe
work. .Only the crews of the sub
mersible and the North German Lloyd
liner Willehad were allowed in the
hold. They passed the freight out to
negro stevedores who stored it in the
warehouses.
Vice President Hilke'n of the for
warding company left today for New
York Nothing has been made public
cocerning the Deutschland's manifest.
James L. McGovern, collecto" of cus
toms, is out of t6wn. He sen', a special
delivery letter today to Captaia
Koenig but the latter declined to com.
ment on its contents.
The citizens' committee which hag
arranged for a complimentary banquet
to the Deutschland's crew next Wed
nesday announced that a gold watch.
suitably inscribed, will be presented to
Captam Koenig.
MAN ASPHYXIATED BY
ILLUMINATING GAS.
Charles Thawley. ' Superintendent of
Bridgeport Gas Company.
Bridgeport, Conn., Nov. 3. Charles
Thawley, 57 years old, superintendent
of gas lights for the Bridgeport Gas
Light, company, was found dead in his
bedroom here this afternoon, a viotim
of escaping t illuminating gas. Medi
cal. Examiner S. M. Gartick gave a
finding of accidental death.
Mr. Thawley was on the bed when
found, fully clothed. A gas heater in
the room had the cock turned half way
on. It was Mr. Thawley's custom to
take a nap in the afternoon. It is
supposed that he turned on the gas in
the heater with the intention of light
ing it and, changing his mind, turned
it only partly oft. . - -
Padding of Registration:!
Disclosed 4
Indiana and THnr! inwinMn.' v..
developed the fact that a number ol '-1
the negroes have registered in viola. , 1
tion of the laws of the states to which 4
they have gone, and have expressed the - J
intention of voting in those states. - I
Trickery Resorted To. ' I
'Some information has been devel-" : I
oped indicating plans in different
states to violate the federal statute! j
with reference to election in othei
ways, such as registration of non- v'
naturalized citizens, false resriirtrstton r ', 1
by padding the registration lists with
nctitious names with the intention 1
having persons falsely represent them- i !
selves to be the persons whose names
appear on the list and vote under those '
names, what are commonly known as
repeaters,' false counts and returns .
by election boards, entering on the poll I
hooks as- naving voted nctitious per- 1
sons or persons who' have failed to 1
vote, intimidation in various forma. 1
including that by employers of their "1
employes through threats which tend
to coerce the will of the employes.
"Facts in the possession of the de
partment show in one city the pad
ding of registration lists with ficti
tious names to an extent which, in the
light of accurate information already
obtained, indicates that the number of
such false names probably reached
into the thousands." r
FOUND EVIDENCE OF " ' "
FRAUDULENT REGISTRATIONS ;
intimidation and Use of Money In I II I. 1
no is, Ohio and. Indiana. - -. , I
' - - I
Chicago, Nov. 3. Frank C. TJalley,
in charge of the government's invest!-.
gation into the vote frauds in the cen-r i
tral district, announced today that In- - j
vestigia tors have found evidence " of A
voters and infhnida'tioh and h mw'nf I
money to influence votes. The viola
tion, he said, had occurred in Illinois,
Ohio and Indiana.
He declared he was contemplating
calling a special grand Jury to hear
the evidence, but said the call would
not be made until after election.
CUBAN PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION STILL UNDECIDED
Complexion of the Next Cuban Con
gress Remains in Doubt.
Havana, Nov. 3. With the result of
the presidential' election still unde
cided and both sides claiming victory,
it was considered probable "tonight
that new elections may have to be
hold in some of the municipalities of
Oriente province before it can defi
nitely be determined whether Presi
dent Mario G. Menocal, conservative
candidate, or Dr. Alfredo Zayas, the
Liberal nominee, has triumphed.
The latest returns from Wednes- .
day's election, still incomplete in each
province, give the Liberals a major
ity in the provinces of Havana, Ca
maguey and Matanzas. The conser
vatives lead in Pinar del Rio and San-'
ta Clara, but the result in Oriente,
which has become the pivotal prov-
ince, 13 undecided. Should the final
returns give each party the electoral
votes from the (provinces in which
they now lead, it would be necessary
for either to carry Oriente in order to
win. On the face of the scattering
returns received the Liberals have a'
majority in this eastern province, but
the conservatives claim that complete
returns will swing the province in
their favor.
Figures on the result of the con
gressional elections still were unavail
able tonight and the complexion of
the next Cuban congress continued to
be in doubt.
ADAMSON BILL IS A
DISGRACE TO THE NATION
Statement Made by President Taft at
Rutland, Vt
Rutland, Vt., Nov. 3. Speaking at a
political meeting here tonight, For
mer President Taft referred to the
foreign policies of the administration
and said:
"We will stand behind the president
when he makes an assertion of our
rights, but to refrain from proper crit
icism of a public official is to surren
der the foreign policy."
Taking up the Adamson eight hour
bill Mr. Taft said: f
"I don't care what the merits of the
case were. I don't care whether the
men were or were not entitled to more
pay. A bill passed under a threat of
force without debate or proper con
sideration is a humiliating disgrace to
the nation."
RETURN OF HUGHES - -
WOMEN CAMPAIGNERS
Who Have Made Speeches All the Way
Across the Continent and Back. ,
New York, Nov. 3. Travel-worn and .
weary, ' but professing confidence in
the election of Charles E. Hughes, the
women campaigners who have made
speeches all the way across the con
tinent and back in his behalf, return
ed to New York today in their special
train after traveling 11,700 miles and .
addressing 191 meetings in 28 states.
From their train they went directly
to a republican rally here, where they
appeared with Colonel Roosevelt,
Movements of Steamships. .
- Gibraltar, Nov. 1. 'Passed, steamer.
Duca d'Aosta, New - York for Genoa.
Sailed, 2d, steamer America, New
York.-- . , - -
.-1
i
J
