'$h
vS~.
:J\
:&H
VOL. 32. NO. 45
The National Colored Citizenship.
Rights Congress which met in Wash
ington, D. C, closed a two days' ses
sion with the adoption of an address
to the country^^
LyiTcEingT jimcrowitfcm, segregation
and race proscription were denounced
by the two hundred delegates from
all sections of the country.
The congress urged extensive or
ganization of the colored people to re
sist discriminations based on color.
It approved the work of the National
Equal Rights League along this line.
Addresses to the Country.
The states of the Union where the
slavery existed, in time followed the
great proclamation by the enactment
of statutes annulling it within their
several borders and the national gov
ernment by the enactment of the' 13th
On the eve of Election Day the American people are
entitled to a summary of the things I have stood for in this
campaign, as they are the things I shall stand for as Presi-
dent.
No man can tell in advance what unexpected demands
the next four years may present but one whose conception
of the President's duty rests upon fundamental principles
can describe with entire sincerity how the problems of ad-
ministration would be approached and in what spirit they
would be solved.
A man charged with the duty of reaching a desired goal
knows that the road to it is found in following that path
which sound judgment and clear vision open up step by
step. I can show the road I expect to travet*
I propose first of all to start right. The President is
primarily an executive. It is his supreme duty to attend
to the business of the nation, to safeguard, its interests, to
anticipate its needs, to enforce its laws.
The first act of a President who takes this view of his
duties is to call about him the ablest cabinet the country can
furnish, men who can deal with the tremendous international
and domestic problems which will confront us in the next
four years.
My conception of the Presidency differs absolutely from
that of Mr. Wilson. I look upon the President as the ad-
ministrative head of the Government. He looks upon the
President as primarily the political leader and lawmaker
of the nation.
In the two departments of Government most closely
touching our foreign relationsthe Department of State
and the Department of the Navyhe chose men whom he
knew to be wholly unequal to their duties. Administrative
obligation was subordinated to political exigency. I can
assure the country that any administration under my direc-
tion will stand upon sound administrative ground with the
ablest cabinet the country can supply.
Across the road we are to travel this next four years,
even though we start right and move with prudence and
courage, serious hazards are thrown like breaks in a road-
way made by a torrential rain. These all rise out of the war
torrent which has overwhelmed Europe. The first has to
do with our foreign relations. It is the President's duty to
safeguard the interests of our own nation and to preserve the
friendship of every other nation.
No man is more determined than I to maintain the peace
which the United States, Spain, Sweden, Norway and all the
American republics now enjoy. But I should seek to main-
tain that peace by a firm and courteous insistence on the
rights of our citizens at home and abroad.
An American in Mexico is subject to Mexican law, but he
is an American still and is entitled to the protection of his
own government in his lawful business. For one I shall
never consent to a policy which leaves Americans helpless
against the lawlessness of any country in which they have
a right to do business.
There confronts labor in the next four years a condition
more serious than any that American laboring men have
been called upon to face. When this war began over a
million American working men were seeking vainly for
employment. When the war ends and the developed en-
ergies of a new Europe are thrown into commercial pro-
duction, our nation will face a competition such as it never
knew.
One of two things must happeneither millions of men
will be seeking work in vain or else there must be thought
out in advance the problem of commercial organization as
France and England and Germany are seeking to think out
the problem today. Every one of these nations is preparing
to defend its own market by a protective tariff. The end of
the war will end also the opportunities for labor created by
the war. The millions in the trenches today will be our in-
dustrial competitors tomorrow. If we are to save our labor-
ing men from a catastrophe we must plan a tariff protection
IJUL1U9 A.SCHrtARL
tfscfetary sf State
ADDRESS TO THE COUNTRY
OF THE NATIONAL COLORED CITIZENSHIP CONGRESS AT
WASHINGTON, D. C.
Amendment to the Federal Constitu
tion finally put the power into Federal
agencies to prevent its recurrence on
American soil. For many years after
the close of the Civil War peonage
was practiced in the South, which has
never become thoroughly reconciled
to the laws prescribing equality of
citizenship, -,_""*
.Works of the South.
This fact is seen in the widespread
efforts to defeat the great purposes
of the War Amendment, by the" enact
ment of laws making the disfranchise
ment of the race a practical reality
by provisions for the separation of
Colored passengers from all other
racial elements on common carriers by
prescriptive legislation for residential
segregation. The lynching of thou
sands of Colored men and even women
J.A.A.BURNQUISTfjfo
charged with offenses never proven in
the courts of justice, has become al
most a national disease. These social
disorders are the aftermath of slavery,
and we appeal to all fair minded men
and women, to the enlightened moral
forces of the country, to unite in a
nation-wide effort to correct these
abuses to the end that justice may
prevail in all sections of our Republic,
Capacity of Colored Americans.
The great progress of the Colored
race since the day of their liberation
from bondage has been made in the
face of stupendous difficulties in the
face of hate and prejudice, proscrip
tion and injustice, and is all the more'
remarkable because of the powerful
influence exerted by these evil
agencies. The race has greatly multi
plied in numbers, and in usefulness.
It has reduced its illiteracy! a very
low percentage. It has multiplied its
wealth in lands. In religious, educa
tional and industrial movements, it
has become an important factor in the
national life with ever increasing ef
ficiency. Wherever the door of op
portunity has been opened to them,
Colored Americans have demonstrated
their ability to meet the most exacting
'M*
Si**'.'
!&
ST. PATHr 1KD MINKEAPOI38. MINN.. SATURDAY: NOVEMBER 4, 1916.
of the
By CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
Next President of the United States
Vote Republican Ticket Straight
CANDIDATES ON THE REPUBLICAN STATE TICKET
requirements of our civilization.
The Colored people have made valu
able contributions to Science, Inven
tion, Art, and Literature, and their
achievements in our national wars
have -maintained at a high level the
best military traditions of this nation.
We desire to express to the friends
of liberty and justice for all men
throughout this broad land, our grate
ful appreciation for every service of
any character which they have rend
ered in the past
We seek nothing but justice" and
that equality of rights and that equal
opportunity which are denied to none
of the -other, groups in thi country,
because of race.
W 1@ CUNgQIHSTj
%i
Against Reactionary Movement.
We denounce the segregation of
Colored employees in the civil -service
of the Federal government as un
American, unjust, a wicked, shameful
and disgraceful.abuse of power.
We denounce the spirit of those so
called representatives of the people
in the halls of Congress, who are con
stantly seeking to decitizenize the
Colored race by the introduction of re
actionary, legislation which belongs to
a past age, and which the .great body
SS
of the American people have outgrown.
Racial Organization, Opposing Segre
gation.
We call upon the leaders of our race Jhr
in every section of our country to
of civil and political rights and es-
Googins, Mich. E. W. Powell, Cal.
Rev. B. F. Sydes, R. I. E. D. Willis
ton, N. Rev. Byron Gunner, N. Y.
Mrs. L. Adams, 111. Rev. S. L. Cor
rothers, D. J. L. Peaker, Conn.
Rev. W. H. Powell, Va. -'f^^SW'^ ator from Georgia.
i
-*a-
th,e
fo
unselfishly guide the people through f^6
the difficulties .by which they are be- Oceans Times-Democrat,
set, and to organize them locally and
nationally to resist and combat denial
an
pecially the policy- of separation from solution of the negrfothe problem should
fellow Americans of every race in the &
along sound, just and economic lines. To this' endeavor I
pledge myself and the men who are to- be my colleagues.
In this matter again I difter absolutely from the policy
of the present, administration. Democratic platforms have
declared that the Government has no right to levy tarifi*
duties except for income. This is the fundamental faith of
the Democratic party.
I pledge myself and those who stand with me to deal
with the needs of laboring men the country over, whatever
their trade or organization, upon the principle of giving the
largest protection possible to every American working man
and the largest participation possible in the prosperity of
our industries with special favors to none.
Finally it is to be remembered that every European
government is putting itself behind its industries organizing
them, encouraging them and suggesting economies. When
the commercial struggle begins anew, the industries of every
European country will go into the world markets backed
by the effective co-operation and intelligent oversight of
their government.
Our national policy requires that government maintain
a strict supervision of business organization. This can be
done effectively and yet leave the Government free to en-
courage legitimate and wholesome business enterprise. I
stand for such supervision and control of business, but I
demand also that business great and small (and especially
the small business) be treated fairly and justly. Only under
such conditions can business pay living wages or compete
with foreign manufacturers.
In this respect again the present administration holds
a policy entirely opposite. It has viewed business enter-
prise with suspicion and has made the government a brake
to stop the wheels of legitimate industrial progress. It
has treated the business men of this country as though they
were suspicious characters. It has assumed that capital
and labor are natural enemies. In four years it has put this
country further on the road to class war than has been ac-
complished in a generation before. The men who stand
with me believe in the'honesty of the American working
man, they believe no less in the honesty of the American
business man, and they believe that the common good is to
be found not in class war but in mutual justice and fair
dealing, not as between capital and labor in the abstract
but as between men and men.
You know the road we have traveled this last four
years. Mr. Bryan and Mr. Daniels are its mounuments of
executive efficiency. Our murdered and forsaken citizens
in Mexico reveal a conception of American citizenship plain
enough to see but a new one for.American patriotism to
adopt the monument of class bitterness raised by this ad-
ministration throws a sinister shadow across our political
horizon the unjust accusation against business men has left
a bitter taste in our national life. If you prefer this path it
is plainly marked. And the end of it is class war.
You ask what road I propose to travel? These are the
milestones which mark itan executive responsible to the
whole nation, a cabinet chosen from the ablest Americans,
a foreign policy that stands courteously but firmly for
American rights, a flag that protects the American in his
lawful rights wherever his legitimate business may take him,
a preparation for trade competition which shall protect all
groups of American workmen, a government oversight of
business which will fearlessly eliminate abuses, but will act
on the assumption that the average business man is honest,
and finally a domestic policy which looks to industrial peace,
and to sound and permanent prosperity based upon the de-
velopment of American trade and the building up of Ameri-
can industries.
We Americans are in one boat. You cannot strike a
blow at one group without injury to all. Common justice
and fair play will settle our difficulties if suspicion and bit-
terness are let alone. These are the principles by which I
propose to be guided.
DEMOCRATIC SENTIMENTS.
"Every negro must understand here,
nowa
IRA B.f^lLL9Tjh
Jteilroaa & WsreJroureCoiqmmj'on
right.off,, onceee andlforever, that
the white."Ne
Souther neopl wil never even instant agre that the black
States said the first importanyearspago,
Tn mos
ste towards a
withdrawal right of'suf
tn
public life, opposing segregation, the *rage to the negroes by abrogating the
perpetrator of race prejudice, v- Fifteenth Amendment to the Federal
Those who have wisdom let their Constitution."-New Orleans States,
counsel be heard. Those who have (Dem.)
wealth, let them assist materially
where the need is great. Those who Intelligent Negro Disturbing Influ-
have courage, let them stand and con- ence.
tend for justice. "The uneducated Negro is a good
Signed by: Maurice W. Spencer, Negro he is contented to occupy the
Del. Rev.'J. H. Eason, Penn. Rev. natural status, of his race, the position
J. E-"Wood, Ky. Wm. Monroe Trot- of inferiority,f "The educated and in-
ter, Mass. J. Murphy, Md. Rev. telligent Negro, who wants to vote,
R. C. Ransom, N. J. Mrs. Robert, is a disturbing and threatening in
fluence. We don't want him down
here let him go North. I favor, and
if elected will urge with all my power,
the elimination of the Negro from poli
tics."Hoke Smith, United States Sen-
If
fe^aifc^ic*ii!^^
SMOPIRTIafi.
"Turn the African Tree Climbers
Out."
Go down to the Pension Office and
take out the Africans. Then go down
to the War and Navy Building and
take those black sons of the cocoanut
region, who sit there with big brown
drops of sweat coming out of their
foreheads, kick them out
turn this brood of African tree climb
ers out to earn a living on the farms
and in the fields.Congressman Rod
denbery (Democrat) of Georgia,- in a
speech in House of Representatives,
,April 10,1912.
Necessary Every Negro Will Be
Lynched.
"How is the white man going to
control the government? The way we
do it is to pass laws to fit the white
man and make the other people
(Negroes) come to them. If
it is. necessary every Negro in the
state will be lynched it will be done
to maintain white supremacy.
The Fifteenth Amendment ought to be
wiped out. We all agree on that then
why don't we do it?Ex-Governor
James K. Vardaman of Mississippi,,
now U. S. Senator-elect
-w-tf?
*'$
A
i-W
--5.
&*^S&SlNfeS85$S
