4
Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
Mjest - 4 SJV
'L'W KM TY -SEVENTH YEAH
14 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MOUXINd, NOYEML5KR 4, lf)H
11 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 1G9
THAT THE FIGHT IS WON
MR. HUGHES CONFIDENT
ON RETURN TO NEW YORK
Speaking Tour is Concluded
It Was a Triumphal Journey
Through His Empire State
Slepubllcsn A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK. Nov. J. Charles K.
Hughes wound ui his HS.OOtt mile
pr sidi ntial campaign tour with six
teen streuoiis hours of compalKnln,i
todav, down the Hudson river valley
and in Brooklyn. The nominee deliv
ered nine speeches, starling at S:4
o'clock this morning, and did not
reac h his hotel until after midnight
tonight.
Tomorrow, the hist day of -his cam
laign. was to have been a day of rest
will- a big rally at Madison Square
Garden at night. Instead it will be r.
rh.rlwlnd day of more shaking in
New York City. When the nominee
arrived here tonight, he. found that
the national committee had speeded ; fortune
audience cheered this more than any
other utterance.
The thiri address of the evenin;:
was ut Kismet hall. n his way
there, the nominee passed the house
in which he was married. Here again
he found ail space in the hall ctowde I
with an audience that had waited two
hours to hear him and hundreds
Handing in the sueei.
"It has been my good fortune dur
ing the past few weeks to speak in
many streets." Mr. Hughes said, "and
everywhere there has been this mani
festation ol a deep patriotic feeling
of an intense interest in our vital con
cerns, hut there is something about
the generosity of this welcome in m..'
native state which I haii the good
PRESIDENT TALKS
TO JERSEY MEN TODAY
LONG BRANCH. N. J., Nov. S. ,
! -I'lesident Wilson will close his I
! campaign for re-election tomorrow !
! wit1! a speech at Shadow l-awn to i
i people from his home state of New
! Jersey. For sentimental reasons. !
i be wishes to make his last cam- !
I paign addresses to the eople of 1
i the state In which le began his i
: tol!tical career.
i Many in the president's audi-
! ence tomorrow will be political i
I and persona' friends of long stand- I
i ing. For this reason he has prom- (
1 ised to state his views more com- I
I pletely than before during the !
campaign. democrats from diff- i
! erent parts of New Jersey have
to come on specia
iiD the campaign so mat ne- win
spend virtually the entire afternoon
touring the city. Five speeches ar
i'n his program.
In almost every speech today and
tonight, the nominee told r.is audienc-
s he t ti confident of victory next
Tuesday. He told them there was
little new he could my with regard
to the Issues of the campaign. On
'us trip down the Hudson river val
le, re made the tariff one of the
. hiei' themes of his speeches; here
tonight he sroke chiefly of American
ism. 'l-et me say to you." he told an
audience in nroosivn. ine last ne aci- (
serve four vears, that
mr.kes it more gratifying to me than
any other welcome could posslhlv be.
"I hope and expect that next Tues
day we shall have a triumphant vie
toiy in both nation and stat ."
In his day speeches Mr. Hughes
snoke t-hlefly on the tariff ar.d th
maintenance of American rights
ahroiid. He a'so assailed the admin
istration for "broken promises" wit"!
resect to the reduction of the cost of
'iving. observance of the merit system
in making appointments: the main
tenance of American rights abroad
and economy in the expenses ot the
government.
"Conditions which industiy in the
dressed tonight "that if I am elected : ynhfd y,,, wl f.ir ;l, n( ,.,,,. of
,., ,,-,, a , v.. - (le wnr wf.re characterized as cause
got no farther for the moment. , ,(r ..foTlmlr , onslderation bv eveiy
man in the gallery yelled; I student of our nffair
ou will be. ..We Wan, to look oll, ,hat Wf dl1
The entire audience rose and roar.nl not h.iyfi a hn,,, lP .oming to us :.i
Its approval of the Interruption, wav-, ,h n-.,. ,, ,,, nominee t!d an
i audience at Newburgh. "because there
' nre quite a number of things that v. ?
in hands of American flags.
"If I am elected president." the
nominee continued, "w-e ehall hsve an
American admmistra' ion with ex
t !ttve!r American Tmlicies, without
nv deflection to serve any other in
'erests. Pupreme must he America's
'nteresti In the thoughts of the Am'-.
ian people snrt s-ip-eme will 'be
Vmericn a Interests in an sdministr.i
tion in mv rhsn;e "
I" his tour through Prooklvn to
nisht. Mr. Hughes cjimpatirr'e.i l( .-r
trround familiar to him. as boy. Tli
fiot meeting he addressed in the
Green Tnlnt section, was within thre
blocks of t I'nlon avenue Baptist
hnrih where his father once was
'astnr. The streets through which l'
tmssed were those on which he had
li've.l as a bov. he toid the audience,
jmd f imllinr faces were amnti? those
ihn heard him.
"I have had many a generous" wel
come ,-nd many a manifesttt'on of
enthusiasm on mv lone trip." he do
i Urd "but best of all is the we!"omo
home."
The second meelin? of the even'iu
as in 'he Brownsville section, a dis
trict which hi ndvlsor told him was
strongly socialistic In its polities. Her"
he streets were choked. Traffic was
h'.K ked nnd the services of more thn
'ifty idlcemen f necessary tti
the nominees car through the crowd
snd to the entrance of the hall
nt 'his meeting. Mr. Hus-hes reiter
ated bis endorsement of the republi
can platform plunk declarim for a
!-etv witH Pnsi'la that "I'd reoi
rle the right of expatriation. T:ie
must carefully consider."
Among the rhief of
thcti
Mr.
arranged
I trains.
i In hia speech the president will 1
express confidence In the outcome I
I of the voting next Tuesday. Mr. i
! Wilson has no engagements be-
' fore' elecilon. He feels that the I
i issues are made up and that most I
' of the people have determined I
! bow they will vote. I
WILSON CALLED
TIE BUCHANAN
OF THE PERIDD
I jifiniT
I WENT SKMHD
IS EXPLAINED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Nov. J. Theodore
Kooaevelt; speaking at a mass meet
ing in Cooper I'nlon here tonight, de
nounced the policies of the Wilson ad
ministration and urged his audience to
"put in the presidential chair the clean
and upright Justice of the supreme
court, the fearless former governor of
New York whose whole public record
has been that of a man straightforward
i in hia thought and courageous in his
Hughe ranks lommercial comp-t'Uu.n j action who cannot be controlled to do
lifter Ihe var with European naiio-ts. what is wrong and who will do what is
"not at all wasted bv war. but dis- right no matter what influence may Ims
(-inline organized as they have never i brought against him."
been before.' The Fnderwood tariff. The former president broke away
Mr. Hughes said, would not tn"t t he from his speech which he had prepared
situation as a measure of protection In advance to say what he thought of
tT American industi the so-called "hyphenates." He de-
"Onr opponents to'd up four ears j clared that although Washington and
US", Mr. Hughes said et Kingston, of
th wonderful opportunities thev were
going to Rive to American business
we know what actually followed. t
do not mean that thev were insincer-.
I simplv mean ths' what thev think
fitted American life does not work
with It."
Mr. Hughes said he asked his op
ponents ' what they were go'nj: to do
about safeguarding American indus
try and they replied that they had a
tariff commission. A tariff commis
sion he continued, did not pass lawn.
It was time. Mr. Hughes declared,
for his polilkal opponents to be sensi
tive about criticism.
"We are taking account of stock."
lie said in his Newburgh speech.
"Our opponents seem to be a little
sensitive aKut the Mock taking. They
'cm have the idea that there
ooght not to be any criticism of the
cdmlTilstiation. Well, we would not
do very well in American life under
our institutions If we went ahead in
that wav. We want fair criticism.
(Continued on Pare Sixi
PROHIBITION CANDIDATES RETURN
. LADEN DOWN WITH OPTIMISM
' Republican A. P. Leased Wirt;
HiIiT WAYNK. Ind. Nov. 3. Old
horoe trills were hit again today by
J. Frank Hanly, the prohibition presi
dential candidate, when the dry party
special train came back to Indiana
nfier visiting tbirty-foiir states and
traveling almost ZO.utiu miles since
September I. ,
Hanly ajain turned a broad range
of fire on sum and national demo
cratic nd republi'an candidates for
their silence on the dry issues. In
diana's two vice presidential candi
dates came In for ttari.cularly vigor
ops attacks. Fairbanks, he insisted.
iirsitd In packing the republican
national convention with lift nor men
o his party Would uppcal to the
"liberal vote." Of Vice president
Marshall he said that Ira Landrlth.
lite dry vie residential candidate
would, if elected, lift the office to
hich he asTrtred. from fts present
"rittfully low estate to the proud posi
tion the fathers intended It should
occupv."
I nnsual optimism over the drys'
prospects m il i. el Hanly' speeches.
"Or. this long lourney," he said,
we have fffind a response to our
pln for the cause such as no other
man ever heard. (vcr this country
we have leid broad ard deep the
foundation for victory.
"(live as ijtm votes in Indiana
.imd J.ooo.onn in the nation this year
and we will force one of ths old
fwrtles to adopt the dry plsnk at Its
ne convention, or we will lead a
Mctoilors tight fur a tJry nation with
mother party. "
Hanl was enthusiastically receiv
ed, f Jchmond gave him n small
crowd iHtt Winchester, Cortland and
Kerne turned out good audiences. The
Winchester moflliig. held In a taber
nacle, resounded with frequent cheers
and snouts or em ourogement.
"Whoop, whoop, there are are!"
siiou led a man as Hanly and I.'ind
rith a p en red. "Who says they arc-
not !:,- enough to run this govern
ment .'"
- The .-rowd immediately took up thf
cry and thence until the end of the
meetii.g. the speakers were frequently
met bv shouts such as "hit 'era
again," and "Americans, that's right!"
l-endrlth aroused applause by de
claring that the party that is beaten
this year will hold Its convention first
in vtf- write a dry plank into
Its platform.
The train will continue through
Inlinna tomorrow, arriving at In
diannpolbr for a night meeting In
Hunly s home city.
evTetcn
U. S. "Mr. Pretident, It"s a Miracle How These Peopla Keep Out ot War Without You! '
Cartoon by CARTER in 7lu New York Sun.
fcf
TEUTONS STILL
Lincoln were of Knglish blood, they
were both Americans through and
through.
"No American can be a good Ameri
can on a fifty-fifty basis." said Col
onel itoosevelt. "There Is no room in
this country for . F.ngllsh -Americans,
German -Americans, French -Americans,
Irish-Americans, or any other kind of
Americans but real Americans.'
Colonel Roosevelt, in referring to
secretary or War Maker's recent al
leged comparison of Washington's sol
diers with the constitutionalist forces
in Mexico, said Mr. Baker was "an
amiable man who knits
Once during his speech, when the
former president ouoted from the will
of George Washington In which the
rirst president bequeathed his swords
to his nephews and cautioned them
not to unsheath them except for self
defense or for the defense of their
country, some one in the audience ,
shouted:
".Sounds like Wilson:"
Colonel Roosevelt paused for a mo
ment and the voice In the audience
said: "I mean Itoosevelt!" Colonel
Roosevelt smiled and continued his
speech.
When he had concluded he was driv
en to a theater In Kant Houston street,
where he made a brief address.
Roosevelt criticized I'resident Wilson
in emphatic words In his address at
Cooper I'nion, which he delivered at
the request of a campaign organization
of business men who oppose the re
election of Mr. Wilson. Taking as his
subject "Our Nation's Crisis," Colonel
Roosevelt said that a world cataclysm
has overwhelmed civilization and that
"the times have needed a Washington
or a Lincoln, but unfortunately we
have been granted only another Hu
chanati." "I have been assailed," said the
stwaker, "because I have criticized Mr
Wilson. I hove not said one thing of
mm tnat was not absolutely acenrate
nnd truthful. I have, criticized him be
cause I believe he has dragged In the
dust what was most sacred in our past
and has Jeoiardlzed the most vital
hopes of our future. I criticize him
now because he has adroitly and clev
erly and with sinister ability appealed
10 an mat m weakest and most un-
Illegal registration by the hundreds
hsve been uncovered in many pre
cincts in the state by the Thiel de
tectives, who have recently concluded
Investigation extending over some
time. It Is raid that numerous in
stances "have been uncovered where
men and In some cases women, who
have been residents of the state from
three to eleven months have register
ed, while others who have been gone
from the precinct for two years are
on the registration lists. It has also
dale and the Oatman districts, and a
mass oi evidence snowing irreginari- i
tis is said to have teen gathered by
these Thlel detectives who arc em
ployees of the same agency which
has Pen engagod In running down
bootlegging in the state.
Punishment Is Severe
The r'eleral Corrupt iractice Act
make5 it a violation of the taws of
the I nited Stales, for any person not
having a lawful right to vote to do so
at any election or representative in !
MftKE PROGRESS
1 !
t Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Violent fighting continues to mark
the Austro-f German attempts to pene
trate the plains of Kumania south of
Kronstadt and Hermannstadt and to-
-ongrss It makes it a violation of
been discovered that many w ho can-j the I'nitcd Htates laws for any person I ward Bucharest. The stiff defense of
not men ine euucauon.ii quaimca- to do pin- unlawful act to secure an 1 the Rumanians is yielding slowly to
J optsu-tunitv to vote for himself or any the blows of Austro-German artillery
first die- other iiersop. The punishment ore-. . i.(...in. ..hnm i T-ort l in.l R--
"V
twins have registered.
The irregularities were
coverxl wnen the publicity agent of scribed
on1? of the republican candidates for
state office mniled out literature to
each precinct in the state. From
many precincts he received notices
that literature addressed to registered
voters had been undelivered. In one
small precinct he found that one
hundrd and fifty pieces of literature
remaine undelivered, and that of
those to whom It was addressed had
not ben heard of in that neighbor-
ho id for a year or two.
Have Complete List
A complete list of these illegal reg-
the federal law for this ln ;,nilounces further prograss south : price, sulphite and ground
fine of not more than $uu t of lhe ,luvr for tnf.m. produced by most of the j
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. S.In a stale
ment tonight announcing virtual com
pletion of Its Investigation of newi
print paper prices, the federal trade
commission declares that during the
first half of this year, when prices al
Teady were soaring to unprecedented
figures, the average cost of producing
news print oaper in domestic mills was
less than $1.65 per hundred pounds, or
lielow the average cost in the past
three years.
The commission announced that be
fore issuing its report public hearings
will lie conducted and manufacturers,
publishers and others Interested given
an opfwirtunlty to appear. No date U
set for the hearings, but the report is
said to be ready to send to the press in
the near future.
Certain facts developed by the in
quiry are made public now bei:ause
most of the publishers' contracts for
paper are about to expire. Contract
prices rose this year from less than $.'
per hundred to S3 and J3.50. and on
current market purchases the publish
ers have .paid J7 or more for paper
bonght in'the same way prior to Jan
uary 1 for between 12 and $3. The
statement says In part
"The price advance in Dews print
paper which, on investigation, began
early in 191S and has continued down
to the present. Most print paper,
probably M per cent, is sold on con
tract for periods of a year or more. Be
fore the price advance began, contract
lirices for news print paper were gen
erally less than 12 per hundred pounds
f. o. b. mills. During the first half of
11. contract prices for large quanti
ties in some instances went as high as
$3 per hundred pounds, and since July
I. l!lfi. have run as high as $3.0. Most
of the contracts now in operation will
expire within three or four months.
'On current market purchases news
paper publishers have been paying
manufacturers and Jobbers very rmich
higher prices. Before January 1. 1315.
current market prices ranged Benerally
lietween J2 and S3 per hundred pounds,
delivered, depending on quantity,
freight-and other circumstances; but
since that time they have gone up as
high as $6 or t' per hundred pounds
for a considerable volume of business
and e,ven higher in exceptional in
stances. "The average price reecived by do
mestic manufacturers of news print
paper did not advance In anything like
the degree that current market prices
advanced lieeause most of the paper was
old under contracts previously made.
"The average cost of manufacture of
news print paper in domestic mills was
less than (33 per ton, or H.63 per hun
dred pounds, during the first half of
1916 as nhown by the manufacturers'
own cost sheets and by the costs as re
vised by the accountahts of the com
mission. Furthermore, these average
costs were slightly lower than the av
erage cost in any yaar from 1 91 S to
1S15.
"Though the average cost declined in
the first half of 1916. the market price
of some of the materials of manufac
ture advanced and were unusually high.
"It should be noted that the most im
portant materials which advanced in
wood, were
(Continued on Page Two)
Roads Want I.C. Commission
To Make Car Distribution
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Lol lKVIU.IC. Ky., Nov. 3.-As a
reslilt of developments today In thV
lntortn.il heating being held here on
'he aliened car shortage on the rail
roads of the country, C, C. McChord,
member of the Interstate commerce
commission, who y presiding, an
nounced tonight that he had tele
Kinphed to the commission ut Wasli
'ngton recommending that an order
for n folm.il hearing- be eir.ered Im
mfdiatfclv. Tie testimony given under oath .it
today',! lnlorm.il Inquiry will -be In
troduced at the proiHised formal hear
ing. It is tindf-i stiHjd. and so made a
basin for action by the interstate com
merce cfmmi oflon. . The apparent
"hoilaue of cars titKih the railroads of
the country was declared to.be the
re.Milt of a lafk of efficiency In their
distribution by W. I Karnes, super
intenoent ol transportation of the
Chicago, Iturllnfiton and Quliicy rail
road. It was brought out that the mil.
roads of the I'nlted States now own
approximately 2.6UO.OOO cars and that
the apparent total shortage on all
tines is only about (10,000. Mr. Harnes
gave It us his opinion that much of
this shortage resulted from shippers
asking for more cars than they need
in oruer mat ineir allotment might
npprouch the number they res II v
want. Any apparent shortages result -
IIH from other causes. !;e suiil, could
fe met by a more efficient diKtrlbu
tion of the' car supply.
Kach of the railroad representatives
testifying today recommended the as
sumption of control by the interstate
commerce commission of the distri
tuition of cars.
... . r. ... or ine bonier lor tncni. produced bv most of the paper msnn-
with Imprisonment or not more than. i-J; ,,f jvedenl however the Un-1 .rar. .Hthnm -,nr.r- t eo.t
thre- years in i.ie federal prison or m.inian!. H(ivancinir in the Kuzeu val-t nd nm ho-ht .' market nrice. while
person Convicted i. . uav- ,lriven the Invndep h:j if svpr i nkAr mf.nn(.rti,MM tiro-
it he frontier in the region ol i anie : tected against the increase m prices ny
contracts.
tsinul and Taturumio, along the Trail- j
sylvani-vn Ixirder southeast of Kron- 1
start. South of Hermannstadt in the
legion of Kothenthurm whs the Aus-
tro-Germans have exetended their
bv botp. and the
miiht pav : he cost of the prosecution.
nave imim.i. cnowieage , UU7i T(lev Mno nay1 ,ake jtoJ.it
lie .MivoiiH i.in niasen ii un oi-
fens punishable bv five years in
statn prison for one who votes when
he is not entitled to do so. and ulso
makes it a serious offense for one to
ntt-mpt to vole who is not entitled to
do so. Although these Thiel detec
tives have been working in the state
'It is generally claimed in the trade
that costs in the future will increase
particularly on account of the scarcity
of lalKir in the Canadian woods and
the consequent Increase In labor costs
This is
lstrations has been placed in the j for s ,me time principally In the min
hands of Ihe local republican commit-1 Ine distrlcis, it was only with the last
learneo on good au-idav or tyvi ilia' the fact that thev
had beep checking up the residence of
registered voters became generally
known. It develops that they have
had access to all the registartlon lists
and have rim dowri the leniith of
residence in every precinct where
illegal registration win: suspected, and
all thove on the registration lists
w iiose b'PKth of registration in the
I'istilct was n it commonly known.
teeman, It is
thoritv. and on election day those
lllegalh" registered who attempt to
vote will be Immediately arrested.
Some may he allowed to go ahrctd
and vote, when warrants for their
arrest will be sworn out. Detailed
Investigations are Kaid to have been
conducted in Clifton. Morencl. Glole.
Miami. Ttlnhee. Txiwell, AJo. Hayden,
Wlnk"lmsn, Christmas. Jerome. Clark-
Why Republicans
Feel Confident of
Empire State
(Special to The Republican)
NKW YORK, Nov. !.-.w York
state is republican this year by ut
least f If' v thotissnd. according to an
analysis of the political situation here
bv Frederick C. Tanner, chairman of
the lemorratic enrollment fell off.
The republican enrollment for 191 "
1!'K was 72!.!ilii us compared with
fi::ii.4fi for the preceding year, while
Ihe democratic enrollment yvas 6.11.
as compared with 635,047. All
the heavy gains In reulstration this
year have been recorded from re
publican districts. In Manhattan,
Tammany's stronghold, the registra
tion fell off.
"The steady falling ofr In the demo
cratic vote, and the rapid increase in
the republican vote: the falling off in
t ht democratic enrollment, and the
marked republican gain, nnd, finally
the lulling oft of registration In the
strongest democratic territory and
lines and captured an additional 310 . of bringing logs to the mills.
prisoners. West of Rothenthurm, and j necessarily a matter of prediction con
(Continued on Page Eight) (Continued on Paw Two'
0-53 S SISTER DOING TO ESCORT
DEUTSCUD BACK TO GERMANY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW I.ONIXiN. C'onn.. Nov. 3. The
(ierman armored submarine l"-67. sis
ter ship of the I'-SS. which recently
sank five vessels off the New Kngland
coast, is expected to act as a convoy
for the under sea freighter Deutsch
land on her return trip to Germany, ac
cording to a statement tonight by Cap
tain 'huI Koenig.
The Deutschland s skipper added:
men on October 13 three days after
the Deutschiand sailed.
Rnmors were in circulation nere to
night of the presence of British and
French cruisers oft Block Island. No
Man's Land, and Nantucket shoals, but
there was no confirmation from re
!::''' sources.
Commander Yates Stirling, of the
I'nitcd (States submarine base in the
Thames river, placed no credence in
rCuban Election Still in Doubt
Another May Have to be Held
mv rcp'wmcnii mm miuiniur. una me Heavy gains In republican sec-
means 4j sine electoral votes foi tions. together with the results of the
Hnghs. I ictua' canvass that has been made in
The total vote in .his state will, i every county indicate bev.n.t the
In all probability exceed 1.600.000. us . shadow of a doubt the n ccesn nf the
it has In each of tne laid three presi- ! entire r"p(tblican ticket state and
dentlal years." said Mr. Tanner. ."No national.
mmliiluli rntininir on the democratic. . - - . .
tickei in this state has received
750.000 votes.
"No republican candidate for
dent or governor. In any of the
three presidential years has received
In this state loss than 800.000 votes
except in 191:!. when the republican
vote was divided between the rcpuh-
lican and progressive candidates. That
vote is not so divided this year. Most
of the voters who were progressives
four years ago have returned to the ;
republican party, and those who Coa
tinue to maintain a seimrate pany
have endorsed the republican candi
dates for president and governor.
"The democratic vote In the state
has beei falling off since 1908. In
that ,ver, the democratic vote for
rovernor was 733.1811: in 1910, It was
689.700: In 1912. 649.559. In 1914 the
highest candidate on the democratic
ticket received 616.401 and In 1915 the
total democratic vote for members of
assembly was 595.359. v
"In 1912 the republican vote for
governor was 444.105: in 1914, It was
6X6.701, and in 1915 the total republi
can vote for members of nssemhly
was 700,236.
The republican enrollment this
year increased nearly 100,000, while
"I would not be surprised If the llW reports. . He said the tender Rush -armored
submarine appeared off the ey, ini four United (States submarines
coast while 1 am in port, inu cant
tell what the government will do."
In answer to questions. Captain Koe
nig said he probably would make his
homeward dash within the next ten
days. He denied a report that he
would go through the Cape Cod canal,
raying nothiag was to be gained by
this route.
The L'-57, it was reported, left Hre-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HAVANA. Nov. 3. With the result
of the presidential election still unde
cided tiifl both sides claiming victory.
It was regarded as probable tonight
that new elections may have to be
held In some of the municipalities of
Orlcnte province before It definitely
e ho determined whether Presideo
Mnrio G. Menocnl. censervative cnndl-l
dale, cr Dr. Alfredo Zayas, the liberal
nominee, has triumphed. '
The latest returns from Wednes
day's election, still Incomplete In each
province, give the liberals a majority
In the provinces of Havana. Cuma
Ruey and Matan.a. The conservatives
lend In I Inar del Ria and. Sunta Clara,
but the resiilt In Orlente, which has
become the pivotal province, Is un
decided. Should the fin.il returns "Jive
each purty the electoral votes from
th.) provinces In which thev now lead,
it would be necessary for either to
carry Oriente in order to win. On
the face of the scattering returns re
ceived, the liberals have a majority
in the eastern provinces but the con
servatives claim that complete returns
win swing the province in their favor.
Answering charges of fraud made
by the liberals. Dr. Ricardo Rolzo,
president of the national conservative
party, issued a statement tonight In
wb.lrh he strongly protested that the
ele tion had been an honorable one.
Figures on the result of the con
gressional elections still were unavail
able tonight and the complexion of
the next Cuban congress continues to
be in doubt.
have been maneuvering off Block Is
lsnii 1 "d adjacent waters for two days
and that if foreign warships hud been
sighted a report would have been scut
him immediately.
Officials of the Kastern Forwarding
company announced that the Deutsch
land's cargo was discharged this af
ternoon. ' Great care was exercised to
prevent outsiders from Beeing the work.
Only the crews of the submersible and
I the North German Lloyd liner Wille-
had were allowed In the hold. They
passed the freight out to negro steve
dores who stored it in the worebouses.
Vice I'resident Hilken of the for
warding compaoy, left today for New
York. Nothing has been made public
concerning the Deutsehland's manifest.
James L. McGovern, collector of cus
toms, is out of town. He sent a spe
cial delivery letter today to Captain
Koenltr. but the latter declined to com
ment on its contents.
The citizens' committee which was
arranjini for a complimentary benefit
to the Deutsehland's crew .next Wed
nesday, announced that a gold watch,
suitably Inscribed, will be presented to
Captain Koenig.
Silence of Collector.
I1RIDGEFORT. Conn.. Nov. 3.
James L MeGovenr, collector of cus
toms for Connecticut, acknowledged
here tonight that the manifest of the
Deutsehland's' cargo had been filed
with him. but he declined to make
public any information regarding it.
"It is a private matter," he said, "and
besides, the government rules don't al
low me to make it public."
