WE DO FINE
BOOK and JOB PRINTING
TRX US!
VOLUME lII—No. 45
FORT VAUJ, AT VERDUN
EVA WD BV GERMANS
TONS OF STEEL ARE POURED UPON BATTERED RAM
FARTS BY GUNNERS OF FRANCE
BERLIN, via Sayville wireless, Nov. 2.—Fort Vaux, on the Ver
dun front, has been evacuated by the Germans, it 'was officially
announced today by the German war office.
Following a violent bombardment, during which hundreds of
great French guns poured tons of steel upon the battered work,
the Germans withdrew last night.
A great deal of the fort had been demolished before the Ger
mans withdrew.
Before giving up the tort the Germans blew up important parts
of it that had not already been destroyed by French shells.
Gains for both the Germans and Allies were reported from the
Somme front by the war office.
Today's statement said in part: "The artillery duels on the right
bank of the Meuse has been repeatedly increased to great intensity
The French have directed an especially heavy and destructive fire
against Fort Vaux, which has been evacuated by us during the
night in accordance with our military plans. Our troops were not
disturbed by the enqmy while carrying out their operations. Im
portant parts of the fort were blown up by us before we evacuated
it." /
9 PARIS, Nov. 2.—Fighting their way forward through fog and
battle smoke,.the French won fresh ground last night on the
Somme front and the Les Boeufs-Sailly-Saillisel line.
In announcing this success today the French war office reported
also the capture of 536 German soldiers during the last 24 hours.
LA FOLLETTE BREAKS
WITH MICHIGAN G. 0. P.
MILWAUKEE, Nov. 3.—Uni
ted States Senator La Follette
and the Republicans of Wiscon
sin, as represented by the State
Administration, have apparently
come to the parting of the ways.
La Follette to-night failed to live
up to an advance forecast that
he would come out for Hughes.
At the same time Gov. E. L.
Philipp, Republican candidate
for governor, speaking at La-
Crosse, attacked La Follette
as Governor, declaring that in
1903 and 1904 he had used State
trust funds to pay State expens
es increased by th*e La Follette
regime.
Inasmuch as William J. Bryan
in his visit to Wisconsin, omit
ted reference to W. F. Wolfe,
Democratic candidate tor Sena
tor, it is possible there is truth
in reports that State Democrats
at a conference on Saturday
came to an agreement with the
La Follette followers. It is
known that many old-line Re
publicans will not vote for La
Follette for Senator and La Fol
lette's strongest supporters are
now openly advocating the elec
tion of Wilson and the Senator.
AERIAL MAILMAN IS BROUGHT
DOWN AT ERIE BY ACCIDENT
HAD BEEN FLYING AT 100 MILES AN HOUR
ERIE, PA., Nov. 2.—Winging his way from Chicago to New
York at the rate of almost 100 miles an hour, in an effort to make
a non-stop flight on the first aerial mail trip authorized by the
United States government, Aviator Victor Carlstrom was forced
to descend near Erie at 11:27 o'clock this morning, after having
flown 480 miles.
Engine trouble brought the daring aviator to earth. One of
the pipes on his big 200 horsepower machine came loose soon af
ter he left Girard, near Erie. Carlstrom kept on flying, however,
but when seven miles south of this city he was forced to land
and came down on the big circus grounds in the southern section
of the city.
When he landed Carlstrom said he was feeling fine and declared
he would continue his trip just as soon as repairs were made.
Carlstrom left Chicago about 6 o'clock this morning and at one
stage of his journey was flying over 100 miles an hour.
THE PA TRIOT
SUPREME COURT ASKED
IF DETECTIVES MAY
WORK ON SUNDAY
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 2.— The
supreme court of the state will
be called upon to decide whether
it is possible for a private de
tective to "labor" on Sunday,
even though he is paid for do
ing so. Five representatives of
a local agency were fined $25
each by Alderman Griffin when
they admitted evidence against
violators of the Sunday blue
laws. Alderman Griffin declared
that he could not class this as
"necessary" work. Counsel for
the detectives will carry this
t %
case to the supreme court.
PENNSYLVANIA SECOND
AS AN APPLE PRODUCER
The ;state department of ag
riculture estimates the 1916
apple crop of Pennsylvania at
6,610,500 barrels. The peach
crop is estimated at 1,124,200
bushels. Pennsylvania stands
second as an apple producer, the
department claims.
Published Weekly by the Patriot Publishing Company
7 .
'x ' . ijjljßL jßjjy .
. '" V < : ; - ■ : -
General Averescu, Head of the Roumania Forces.
"Austria is to |Be 'Germanized'" '
Says a Noted French Writer
PARIS, Oct. 25.—Austria will mier Count Stuergkh, it was pre
be completely "Germanized" in dieted today by the political cor
consequence of the death of Pre- respondent of the Petit Parisien.
WILSON IS AHEAD IN STRAW VOTE AT PITT
V ————————
In a straw vote taken following a Hughes-Wilson debate by stu
dents of the University of Pittsburgh, in oSldiers' Memorial hall
Thursday morning at the students' convocation meeting, Wilson
received 511 votes and Hughes 388. Other votes cast were: Ben
son 34, Hanly 19, and Reimer 1.
HUGHES TO MAKE MANY SPEECHES IN WINDUP
BATAVIA, N. Y., Nov. 2. —Nominee Hughes started on the last
quarter of the presidential campaign race today and among "home
folks" in New York State today and tomorrow he faces one of the
most strenuous two-day programs he has encountered since start
ing on his stumping tour.
He was cheduled for five set speeches today and a dozen or
more rear-platform "appearances" and tomorrow, going back
down the Hudson valley toward New York, his schedule calls for
eight talks, winding up in Brooklyn With two meetings. Saturday
night at a mass meeting in Madison Square Garden, he winds up
his campaign.
" EXPLOSION WRECKS IDAMAR HOME.
The dwelling of Nicola Caputo, at Idamar, was wrecked by a
powder explosion late Monddy night. Fire developed and the en
tire contents were destroyed. It is not known how the explosion
occurred. The loss, which is quite extensive, is partially covered
by insurance in the Parnell-Cowher Co. Aegncy.
ZAYAS ELECTED CUBAN PRESIDENT.
HAVANA, Nov. 2.—General Alfredo Zayas, leader of the Lib
eral party in Cuba, has been elected president of the republic, suc
ceeding General Menocal. Compilation today of the complete re
turns in yesterday's balloting showed that the Zayas' majority
was unusually large.
NEW YORK POST IS OUT FOR PRESIDENT
NEW T YORK, Nov. 2.—The New York "Evening Post," one of
the oldest and most influential independent newspapers in the
country, declared last night in favor of President W 7 ilson's re
election. It bases its advocacy upon the ground that the Presi
dent's re-election will be for the "good of the country."
| * EARLY^ SDE SIRE D. *
| County Committeemen are requested to get into com- ||
? munication with the Patriot as soon as possible after the <|j
l ballots of their district have been counted. This paper will ;
I appreciate all returns and will gladly give out •information s;
< lonceming the results in other districts. Call over the H. s j
\ &C. phone, 250-z. > I
1 The polls open Tuesday morning at 7 o'clock and will >
s 2lose at 7 o'clock in the evening. >
S Saloons must be closed at 6A. M. and remain closed un- >
I til BP. M. >
INDIANA, PA. SATURDAY, NOV 4 1916
ELECTION RETURNS
The election returns will j!
]! be received at the Patriot ]!
\\ office Tuesday evening, No- ]!
]| vember 7, and as received \\
!; will be flashed on a screen |>
![ erected directly across
!| from the Marshall building. ]»
!; The first returns will prob- !|
!; ably be in about 8:30 !]
o'clock. ![
;! If you want the full and
j! correct returns watch the
;! Patriot bulletin screen.
SECURE A CHARTER TO
PROTECT THE MINERS
i
Bituminous coal operators of
the Central Pennsylvania dis
trict have taken out a cha/ter
for the Pennsylvania Bitumin
ous Mutual Association to insure
3mployers' liability. The com
pany has offices at Huntingdon.
C. H. Miller is president and C.
M. Hanson, treasurer. Over 20
are members.
EIGHT UNDER ARREST FOR WHOLESALE THEFT OF
COPPER AND JUNK.
/ *
Wholesale arrests of aliens charged with stealing copper from
the General Construction Co. at North Homer, an adjunct of the
Penn Public Service Co., of Johnstown, and the junk man who re
ceived the stolen goods, were the work of Sheriff Harry A. Boggs
and his deputy, Elmer A. Borland inthe last few days. The eight
persons arrested were taken into custody through information
made against them by an official of the construction company be
fore Squire James A. Crossman. The double quartet was given a
hearing before Squire Crossman Wednesday evening and were or
dered by Squire Crossman to pay for the wire and costs of prosecu
tion, which probably will amount to $l5O.
■ x The prisoners are Petro Lunitto, Sam Bruno, Dominic Peratti,
John Jeticuri, Prestro Peratti, Tevtulo Maters and Dominic Dumi,
all of North Home, and H. Izeman,' of South Seventh street, Indi
ana. A majority of the wire has been recovered and will be used
as evidence against the eight prisoners a,t the hearing.
LONGEST TELEGRAM
OF 50,000 WORDS SENT
MERCEDES, TEX., Nov. I.
A telegraph message about 50,-
000 words long, claimed to be
the longest telegram handl
ed by a telegraph company, has
been going from Llano Grande,
Tex., where the Minnesota
guardsmen are encamped, to St.
Paul, Minn., since Sunday night
and is not yet finished.
Two operators are sending the
name and address of every mem
ber of the Minnesota guard on
the border, with other informa
tion desired by the state of Min
nesota in its preparation of a
ballot to be sent to Llano Grande
and on which the guardsmen
will register their votes in the
national election.
CHINESE PHEASANTS FOR INDIANA COUNTY
Game Protector Iddo M. Lewis, of Marchand, has received word
that 60 Chinese pheasants will be placed in this county soon as an
experiment. If it is found to be successful, others will be planted.
It is claimed that the Chinese species is heartier and have greater
speed and gameness than the ringneck variety.
MANY TESTS ON 8., R, & P.
RAILWAY ARE MADE
Out of a total of 196,499 effi
ciency tests conducted on the
Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh
Railway during the past year, 99
per cent showed that employes
were living strictly up to the
ruies. Of the less than one-hal'.
per cent failures to observe rules
many were for minor infractions
These observations not only
cover every detail of operation
and conditions which might
make for greater safety to the
traveling public, but employes
are watched closely to see that
they are violating no rules per
taining to their own safety.
CIRCULATION
BOOKS OPEN TO ALL
ADVERTISERS
FIVE CENTS
HOMESICKNESS LED
10 ARREST OF MAN
Homesick to see his old friends
it is alleged, Ryamond Harper,
employe in the restaurant of A,
J. Hawes at Blairsville, appro
priated $5O, it is said, from Mrs.
Hawes' pocketbook and started
for his former home in Coates
ville. Detective Jaifies Colange
lo, of this place, was called in on
tne case and he secured word
that Harper's home was in Coat
esville.
A telegram to the Coatesville
officials resulted in the man be
ing taken into custody in that
city and Detective Colangelo
started to get his man, return
ing to Blairsville Monday even
ing. When taken before Squire
Hodge, it is said, Harper made
a complete confession and his
desire to plead guilty in court
next Monday morning.
List of Letters.
Remaining uncalled for in the
Indiana office, October 28, 1916:
Mr. E. C. Brown, The Besse
mer Foundry Co., Miss Lucille
Fleming, Mr. Standard Grant,
Miss> Margaret Hamilton, Miss
Mary Howell, Miss Lenkart, Mr.
Bill Lydick, (Fairview), Mr. F.
E. Mastus, Mr. David Martin,
Mrs. W. E. Risinger, Mrs. John
Sauder, J. M. Shannon, Mr.
Clark C. Smith, (Gen. Del.) Mrs.
Orpha Valentine, Mrs. Irma
Weamer, Miss Elizabeth Wil
liams.
When inquiring for letters in
this list, please state that they
were advertised, giving date.
HARRY W. FEE, P.M.
Beat stores advertise in. Tie
Patriot
ORDERS NEW ENGINES.
The Buffalo, Rochester &
Pittsburgh Railway Company
has placed an order with the
American Locomotive Company
for several engines of the Mi
kado and Mallet types to the
value of approximately $600,000
This purchase is made #t this
time in order to take care of its
constantly increasing tonnage
and to place the road in a posi
tion to cope with the usual ad
ded difficulties of operation
through the winter , months
when requirements for power
are always increased.
