EST^LIS^D1868. ^ ^ tooav s news today FAIRMONT, WEST VIRGINIA, SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 4, 1916.
STEAM
GONNEMARA AND *
nnnin/rn urn
Ultra mm;
OFF COUNTY DOWN
tJoth Vessels Sunk And Only
One Survivor is
Known.
^BODIES BEING WASHED DP
? i
...
Connemara was rassenger
Steamer in Service of ;
Northwestern R. R.
thy Assorlatwl I'rri-'f
LONDON. Nov 4 The London ui><i
Northwestern railway steamship Connemara,
bound front Greettore to Holyhead.
with passengers, has collided
with another vessel and is feared the j
death roll Is about 300.
The Connomara collided with the!
Uearasnip Retriever in tne irisn rnanucl
last night.
Both vessels were sunk. So fur nsj
Is known there Is only one survivor I
."rom both ships.
The railway company says it is unable
to state whether any Americans
v.-cre aboard these vessels. Tlie.v soldon
carry salon passengers.
.A Lloyd's dispatch from Belfast says
he collisou occurred off t'arlingford
Loug. an Inlet on the Irish coast hewoen
tho counties of Down and Louth. |
The Rotrlover was Inward bound. A:
Tew bodies had been washed ashore)
tin the county Down coast. The dls-!
patch cava It Is feared 300 lives wcrej
lost.
The marine superintendent of the
London and Northwestern railroad
said that f-n far as he knew there
were only Ave passengers on the Conuemara.
Her crew numbered ::i. The!
Connemara was a steamer of l.lOt!
tons gross and was 273 'eet long. The
U Retriever was 190 feet long and of till
j^stons gross.
!
SM a a a b
mm will i
WIN BY 20.000:
tepubican State Chairman
Gaines Makes Final
Statement.
fSpccial Dispatch Wost Virginian)
ni Atiircnrnn v? v??. a ?
vummvjui IWVJ. ?? . i u.. * I
Republican State Chairman Joseph !
Holt Gaines pave his final statement1
on the campaign today claiming a gen-,
cral victory for his party all along tiie j
line. It is as follows:
"We will carry West Virginia by ma !
iorltles of over 20.000 for the entire j
ticket and elect every congressman in
the state. We havo fewer dlsscntions |
In the Republican party than we have i
had in any campaign since 1900 anil 1
gur majority for the state ticket will <
be bigger than wo have ever received j
heretofore."
"There was an apathy which has
disappeared. The laboring people ofj
the state are with us; on the national i
ticket because of protection and on
the state ticket because they know
that they can trust. Judge Kobiuson
and he Republican organization of the
state of West Virginia and they can-!
not trust .Mr. Cornwell and especially!
the Democratic organization of West i
Virginia. The business people who at
,limes seemed apathetic have now
Jktwung into lien with unusual enthu"tlasm
for the entire Republican tieket.
J feel we will win all along the line by
big majorities."
Dr. James D. Moffat
Dies at Washington!
< By Associated Tress)
WASHINGTON. Pa., Nov. 4.?The
Rev. Dr. James David Moffatt, president
emeritus of Washington aud Jefferson
college, died here today after
itn illness of less titan a woek from
paralysis. Dr. Moffatt. who was moderator
of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian church in 1905, was born
at New Lisbon. O., March 15. 1S40, and
was educated at Washington and Jefferson
college and Princeton Theological
Seminary. He was admitted to
the Presbyterian ministry In 1873 and
served as pa;%->r of the Second Presbyterian
church at Wheeling. W. Va.,
until 18S2. when he was elected president
of W. & J. college in which position
he continued for 33 years.
The Weather
West Virginia ? Threatening anil "
wanner tonight; Sunday fair.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS. "
F. P. Hall, Observer. 81
.Temperature at 8 a. m. today, 41. P
Yesterday's weather, clear; temper- ft'
ature. maximum. 84; minimum. 30; h
i' jjprecipitation. 02. ci
1ERS COLLID]
Gang Government and Business
(An Editorial.)
A NO soverimu'iil in New York is bcnovolont in its prcdom
jnant instinct. I he Tweeds, the CroKcrs ana tneir successors
helped themselves with a lavish hand to the public
funds and made the kid gloved and the silk hatted who wanted
franchises ami other favors pay huge sums, but invariably a
large percentage of the proceeds filtered down to the families
of the men in the tenements who furnished the votes upon
which the whole amazing structure of graft?the richest in history?is
based. In Philadelphia there is a fine air of comradcry
about it. When a (junker City crowd lifts up its voice at
a political meeting and sings "Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here-'
there is much more to it than raucous sound. San Francisco
in the clays of*the sand lot politicians and in the later?and worse?
times or Abe Kucff was looted and debauched through the manipulation
of a class consciousness which was tilts country's nearest approach
to the selfishness and the greed of a proletariat that has always
been a great problem of municipal politics in France and Italy.
It Is worthy of note that in eacli of these instances the political condition
reflects with considerable fidelity genuine public upinion.
Hut in Chicago, and in Fairmont, gang government is an unlovely,
incompetent, and al times malevolent, thing, without a single re
I deeming I'mture, least of sill tlio utility of giving expression to tho
spirit of the people. It Is u strange condition lor which there is no
reasonable explanation. It provides license for the vicious and temptations
for the weak, but why the voters, who could wipe It out in
both communities if they but made the effort, permit it to exist is a
mystery that defies analysts.
In Fairmont the commonly accepted belief is that certain important
interests?and when we say interests wo do not mean one coal
corporation; there are others--lind it necessary to own a political
organization and the men they employ to manage this political end
of their business believe it incumbent upon themselves to do some
tilings', and to permit others to do other things, which both the moral
and tlie statute law frown upon. If that actually were the condition
anil the theory to which the wholesale debauchery of this community
is due it would indicate unmistakably that these "interests" arc
either singularly unenlightened regarding the commonplaces of machine
politics or totally devoid of a sense of moral responsibility.
! would mean that if they run tile legitimate ends of their business
as stupidly as they run their politics the meaning of efficiency is entirely
beyond tiieii comprehension, and it would make imperative
the teaching of a severe lesson in the general interest of the future
material welfare ol' this district.
It lias been found to lie a difficult thing to prevent commercialized
vice and crime from purchasing immunity in Idg rities. but it is a
fact familiar to all sluilculs of municipal government that front time
to tin." tb"re have arisen t oow-r restrict leaders. 01 bosses if you
sil! a : would not St..in: i r the tilings ill" people ol Fairlliftrif
!. '? r..l?>nr.ili?ri ? . ?. 1 it 111 r?!lrtll? f ... t. tut A-im?ine
who "cleaned op" th"ir r*r!cts unci kept l!icm clean. but who nevertheless
ruled the polC'Uil n uclme "I v.ilich they were the head with
a discipline that would hare' done credit to the -commander of a
Itoman legion.
And there are small cities and towns scattered over the United
States that are dominated politically hy men who control their in- i
dust t ies as completely as Ttowie dominated Zion City in his heyday
in which a bootlegger or a dive keeper of the Jackson street type
would stand about as much show as a mad dog.
Corporation managers who ate not willing to do their
share in keeping their communities clean are going to find that they
have lost their nice fat jobs for the simple reason that in the near
future alliances between corporations and any kind of crookedness
are going to he so decidedly unprofitable that the owners of stocks
and bonds will not put up with the mon who enter into tliein.
it is therefore silly to assume that there is any "business" reason
why the county government of Marion county should bo into a tacit
partnership with illicit booze and black and tan vice and the city
Rovernent become a willinR although silent member of the firm. The
interests could put a stop to it if they wanted to. It would pay them
to do it. Itut they do not. It is high time therefore for the voters
to stop being awed by a feeling that the great corporations upon
whose prosperity the prosperity of this district depends are interested
in gang government and reassumo control, feeling sure that their
own bread and butter and the big corporations will in no wise be
injured in any one of their legitimate interests?which, by the way,
are the only interests the public has any business to be at all solicitous
about.
The voters may be sure that if they do smash the vicious ring and
administer well merited punishment to the gangsters who are
directly responsible for the disgraceful conditions the corporations
will not dare to assist any attempt at revenge. Politics in this state
has entered upon a new phase. For all practical purposes the direct
primary law effected a revolution. The day of conventions controlled
from (lie hack room of a groggery, of nominations made by agreement
between political bosses with private ambitions to gratify and
private interests to serve and of government generally in the hands
of a few is past never to return. All West Virginia politicians have
not yet found it out. but it is a fact nevertheless. In the future the
corporations too will have to behave or they also will be sharply
dealt with iu a court from the decisions of which there is no appeal.
Moreover most of the Marion county gangsters have gone so far with
political and other kinds of inquity that if they did not take their
conge with becoming humility it would be possible to present them
with the alternative of taking a trip either to South America or to
Moundsvillc.
It may be years before the people of Marion county will have as
favorable an opportunity to assert themselves, purify the community
and enforce goon r.usiness management of their affairs as they will
have next Tuesdaj The candidates nominated on the Republican
ticket tor county offices are men of high moral purpose and exceptional
business qualifications. It will take time and tremendous effort
to clean our Augean stables, but they can and will do it. They
can and will enforce the Yost law and abolish the understanding between
viciousness and the law.
But first and foremost the voters must act. They must realize
that they have an individual responsibility. They must prove that
they own their own votes and arc possessed of the first essential of
political initiative?the willingness to stand up for the candidates
who represent decency and good government. They must realize
that gang government is a millstone about the necks of the community
and that it is their duty to belp throw it off no matter how
they feel about the tariff or the Mexican situation. They uiust in
short acquit themselves as real men worthy to be fathers and to
stand unashamed before their mothers.
UMANIANS TAKE ROSCA HEIGHT ALONG THE SOMME.
BERLIN*. Nov. 4?Rosea Height, PARIS, Nov. 4?There was |itermlt
luthoast of Alpsckanz on the Hun- tent cannonading along the Sommc
irian Rumanian front has been occu- trout and in the region of Fort Vatu
led by the Rumanians the war of- and Fort Duamount north of Verdtiz
ce announces. In the region of Tre last night the war office announced
ual Austro German forces recaptur- today. Elsewhere conditions Wert
1 noaJtlon from the Rumanians. -u!?L
1 ' > .*r. .vi. . .." ' ."i.:lrv.vft.fctifesSSS!
E OFF 1
K
West Virginian .
KaJrmont people will know the o
ins as early ai the crowds la the bl
that have been made to place the net
and The Times have arranged to dl
In front of their offices in Monroe st
A special leased wire from the W<
lar news wires of the two news pap
corners of the country as fast as th
sentatives of both papers will suppl;
j Marlon county. All this news will b
I It Is received.
For the benefit of those who do no
happened and especially for those w
the Bell telephone company a special
F. R. Dunning, local manager for th<
West Virginian over phones numbei
i promptly Informed of the very latesl
; Call these numbers at any time ilui
day and as often as you want to. B
company want von to make free use
27 ns i
TDADDED IU AU
Illnl ILU in Hn
I ALABAMA MIIE
Gas Explosion Responsible
| for Trouble Near Birmingham.
i
! BIRMINGHAM. Ala.. Nov. 4 ?
I Eighteen negroes anil nine white men
i entombed in the Bessie mines of the
j Sloss-Sheffllcld Steel and Iron company.
20 miles west of here, arc be-;
I licvcd to have lost their lives early J
I today by an explosion said to have
i been caused by gas.
i Two bodies of unidentified negroes
; have been brought to the surface.
! The entire police force of state res
i cue workers under C. S. Xesbitt. chief!
' mine inspector, together with a crew
! of the United States Mine Burenu
: were summoned to the scene shortly
' after the explosion and everything
, possible, it is said, is being done to
I reach the men.
PITTSBURGH, Nov. -4. ? Ladson
! Stone, in charge of 'the Pittsburgh
I station of the Bureau of Mines, was
I notified of the explosion in the Bcs;
sie mine and prepared to send a force
i o ftrained rescurers from here. They
| will leave on the first available train.
iNAME SAFETY FIRST
i GRAND JURYMEN
i sou Fiace Mxed lor the Law
Breakers of Tuesday
to Land.
Another safety first grand jury has
been called. The names of the men
who will serve during the November
term have been announced and there
are five professional grand jurymen
on the llat. Judging by past records
these men will be looked to by the
Gang government of the county to protect
any who are arrested for vlolallons
of the election laws on Tuesday.
! That Is to say. they will if all the
j plans go through and the Democrats
carry the elections. If anything slips
the poor dupes who fall into the hands
of the law will be expected to take care
of themselves. The list of grand jurymen
Is as follows:
urana district ? jonn 11. Niamey,
Jr.. Clarence Curry.
Lincoln district ? H. T. Lough,
Howard N. Martin.
Paw Paw district? Thomas L. Thorn.
Jacob Greaser.
Fairmont diutrict?F. B. Tennant,
J. Fay Watson, Chas. E. Snider. Clyde
S. Holt.
Union district?Clarence D. Robinson.
Clarence Fiaher.
Winfleld district?Ed. J. Hunsaker,
Levi Harris.
Mannington district?C. L. Kinney,
J. Fred Bcatty.
B. & 0. Men Return
to Their Work
PROMISED INCREASE OF WAGES
IS RECEIVED AND STRIKE
to OC I I ucu>
The 22 men who quit work on the
Br'il'uore and Ohio railroad yesterday
returned to work, tho night shift reporting
last nigm u..? the uay b...u
this morning. This was done after a
conference between representatives of
the men and J. M. Scott, division superintendent
at. Grafton The men will
receive an increase in wages of from
, four to six cents an hour depending
on the class of work.
Thj men have been negotiating Tor
- the ralso for two months and were
? promised the money some time ago.
. Whon it was not forthcoming ..no first
' of this month the men alter holding a
1 meeting, decided to quit. It seems,
1 however, that the wage Increase uhd
s been allowed but that the men wore
not. nnttftad, before they went out.
IRELAr
Election Returns
utcome of the elortion Tuesday even
sfHo. t^Anlia ?n ?K.? nminxAmAnlA
6 tiuvnt uiaitns IU IUC nimiiKviuniuo I
vs before them. The Went Virginian
splay the returns on a single screen
reel.
sstern Union together with the reguera
will bring results from tho four
ey become known and speeial reprer
the details from West Virginia and
e thrown upon the screen as fast as
t want to come out lo hear what has
ho are subscribers to the service of
arrangement has been made through
: Bell company. Persons calling the
s 1083. 1084. 10?j and US will be
L intelligence.
ring Tuesday night and the following
loth the West Virginian and the Bell
of this special service.
LINEMAN BURNED
BY ELECTRIC WIRES
!
Taken From Pole by Aid of
Fire Department Ladders.
i
Dick O'Brien, an employe of the
Consolidated Telephone company,
while working on a wire pole at Fairmont
avenue and Thirteenth street,
was severely shocked this morning
at 11 o'clock. He was 'seen to stiffen
and fire to shoot from him, and then
to lie crosswise on the wires.
The recollection of the sad death
of Taylor Watkins earlier in the week
i caused the men who worked with
O'llrlan ?.. fn.. il.? ...... 1~? '"l"l
i to get liim down while the other telephoned
the i lly (Ire department and
asked for the hook and ladder truek.
the ladders to he used to gel liini
down.
By the time the department got on ;
the scene it was noticed that O'Brien '
was alive and though stunned was
breathing easily. A ladder was raised
to the cross arms and O'Brien assited
to the top rung whence he managed
to climb down himself.
He was taken in an auto to his home
where his greatest injuries proved
to be bad burns, lie-is-entirely out
of danger, though due to his burned
hands and legs he will be unable to
work for several days.
*.?
Fleming Speaks at
Benwood Tonight
Hon. Thos. W. Fleming, candidate
! for Congress, speaks tonight at Benj
wood where a big Republican rally
I and torchlight parade is being held in
! his honor. Yesterday Mr. Fleming
' was in Moundsvlllo where lie spoke to
I a large and cnthusiastim audience.
Thursday he spent in Hancock coun[
ty and spoke at Chester which is in
the extreme north end of the panhandle.
A red light parade a mile long
was a feature of Mr. Fleming's reception
in Chester.
ELECWiT
S10P BUSINESS
%
I Activity Continues Unabated
Despite Excitement of
Windup.
NEW YORK. Nov. 4.?Pun's Review
for this week says:
Neither the pending elections nor
me pcioioiciib i IOC wi iiiiu-b uavu |ICI*
ccpttbly reduced the momentum of the
business movement. Activity continues
unabated at a time when more or
less hesitancy is usually witnessed,
and it rcmslns a wonder that with
costs mounting steadily, and in many
cases rapidly, demands are sustained
in such great volume.
New buying for current and forward
requirements still outstrips the facilities
for both production and distribution,
labor conditions and the growing
scarcity of materials acting as a brake
on manufacturing in many directions.
Car shortages are also a hindrance and
the consequent restriction of fuel supplies
causes some concern among industrial
interests. With shipments
generally backward and the trend of
prices continuing strongly upward,
producers display greater reluctance
in extending commitments farther into
the future and an increasing number
of profitable contracts aro being rejected.
Yet, even with much business of
necessity bold In abeyance, bank clearings
make a phenomenal exhibit and
are 39.0 per cent, larger this week at
leading centers outside New York
than a year ago. though part of the
gain Is obviously due to the high
prices.
LABORERS
28c Per Hour
New Normal School grounds,
Locust Avenue.
'JD; 30C
BOOMERS
BUSINESS UP
SEEL IIS
Prominent Citizens !
And Asked If
"Want So
SOME DIRECT ?
What One Man Saw Who A<
Basement Room of
Street
s
Although It has long been a matter
of common knowledge upon the .streets ]
that liquor has been very easy to obtain
in this city yet it has only been
In the nasi two weeks that those en
gaged in tliia traffic linvc ventured to
solicit the patronage of any and all
passers by who might possibly be a
customer for their wares.
This condition has ueen learned
trom the large number of persons who
have been approached and who were 1
justly indignant that such a condition
wild exist The incidents related by
the following well known anil honorable
men of the community bear out this
statement and they are only a rew of
those who have been ofTercd liquor.
Marshall \V. Harris, former deputy !
sheriff under Geo. K. Amos, and prom- i
inent citizen of the Hast Side, tells this I
one:
"Wednesday afternoon Chas. Haw-;
kins and I were walking down Wasu-;
ington street toward Madison on our
way to the Bast Side. As we passed |
the negro restaurant kept by Billy I
May. a hie black hncU wlinm I dirt not I
know, stepped out and said, 'Do you
men want something?'
"1 started to walk on and shook my
head, but Charley said, 'What have you
got?' The negro replied that he had
whiskey and we would have anything
from a drink up. Charley told him
that he did not care for any and we
then passed on."
Clias. Hawkins lives on Locust avenue
and is known throughout the county
as one of the reliable and respected j
citizens of the community. He vouch-1
cs for the correctness of this storv and I
tolls it in practically the some manner
W. T. Black, of the Fairmont Wall
Plaster company, states that lie was
walking down Washington street on
the same afternoon and that a negro
unknown to him stopped him and offered
to sell him a pint of whiskey. Mr.
Black says that he did not accept the
offer and the negro then offered to sel!
him a drink if lie desired it. This lie
also refused.
J. R. Prickett, a well known and respected
citi7.cn from Barrarkvillo, who i
has been a lifelong Democrat, relates
this one:
"About a week ago I came to Fairmont
and was standing on the Main
street comer by the court house. A
tan lanky negro sidled up to nie and
asked me It I would like to have a dozen
bottles of beer . I told him that 1
did not care tor any and that 1 never
drank the stuff. He said lie could gel
mo whiskey it I would rather have It.
This I also refused."
Another gentleman who is a direr
tor in the now Fairmont hotel and prefers
not to mention his name, relates
this one:
"Thursday afternoon T was down
looking over the hotel which is in
construction at the corner of Jelferson
and Washington streets and was
standing in the street near Billy May's
place watching the steel beams being
swung into place od top of the building.
On the side walk in front of the
restaurant were standing a group of
negroes.
"Every few minutes a white man or
a negro would come along and turn I
down beside the restaurant and go In I
the sldo room. Presently a well built
negro came over to where my compnui
WANTED.
Fire boss. Anolv Plant Vrv 0
Jamison Coal and Coke Com- '
pany, Fairmont. W. Va.
~ NOTICE TO
TAXPAYERS
Tho 191G tax books are now completed
and ready (or collection. The
books (or all Districts will be (ound
at the Sheriff's Office daily until
Nov. 30th, the close o( the discount
period except Mannlngton district,
which will be (ound at the Bank
ot Mannlngton. Please pay today
as I have more time to wait on you
now than later.
C.D. CON AWAY, Sheriff
> *
i LOST
iiim 1
aim
KEY BY DRINK
Have Been Stopped M
They Did Not ,
mething "
piESIW 9
cccptcd Invitation to Visit
May's Washington
Place.
ion ninl I were standing and asked W .
if we wunlnl something. My compma ' 'i-rgi
inn stuted that there wcro seven ^ a|g
thin its that wo might want and askec ^7,-v
what ho had. The negro asked as b ..(?|
follow him and wo did; just to set 'j
what was being done
"Hp lod lite way to the tide entranct.
of tlic restaurant and wo entered. In' ' '^3
side war a large room with a piano In
one corner at w hich a negro was ham- :'
mcring away in n listless manner. >'aH
Througlioiit the room wero groups ol ujfl
negroes and white men and a lew ho ". ?
gro women. '
"Our new found friend lod us ovei
to one corner of the room which wmse'^wj
partitioned oh and behind the parti- .
tion were negroes and white man '.VX4J
drinking wltiskey out of a bottle. \
guide asked us whether we wanted jaW
drinks, at two for a quarter or a'pint
at a dollar. 1 told him 1 did not care ;
for any just then. t
"lie then reached in his coat and '
pulled out piuts ot .yOilakcy. ot two ; ' v?s5
different brands and said we hau better
curry sonic home. We told him Jf
that we could not use anything he ba(L -.trj
He acted very courteous about It andV-/SSjSl
followed us oulsldo, saying when W<
left that any time we wanted tome-'vwH
thing to just call around or call up on .'ftM
the telephone and It would be dellrHundreds
of other instances of boot- 438
loggers who ply tlielr trade right on >' ';3|
the streets and in such a ,way that the ' j35B
city police suid the county officers can- - 'A'Sal
urn nuip uui uc cognizant of it might1 .T^8|
bo cited. For some weeks it baa been
practically impossible for a man to 7-a
pause outside the postofflce after dark 'i'tSH
without being asked if he did not want
something. Men [musing through Jack- SiSS
son street on business bave been stop;'
ped and solicited to buy whiskey while . <
an auto wfTlch pauses in that thor-' . ij
oughfare alter the horn has been siren ;V-r
a suggestive toot or two is almost
mobbed.
?;?*'?:?
Democratic count}/ officers sa}> thef 'Vw|m
can't stop bootlegging. Elect Repub- .' !t^^S
hcans who will. '''f-iM
?
NOTICE Jfj
!
City taxes are now du?j|l
and payable at the City' lalM
Treasurer's Office, Monroe
street. A discount ' &&.
91 LSf* will Ko qIIawa/1
M /V/ ?? aaa MV UilUtTbUl j
J. R. MILLER,, j|19
Treasurer., V'
POLITICAL ADVI-ETISINO
Congressman Neely ^ ;v|
Will address the Citizens of lijlH
Fairmont and vicinity at the. gj
OPERA HOUSE
Tomorrow Evening at 8:00 W&
Mombors of all parties and- thfc
ladlcs aro Invited to attend. * '5
COMMITTEE.'' '^9
Big Socialist Rally
llarold \V. Houston of ChartifrlMuM
ton will spook In tho Court .Itvjwj
House Monday evening at eight'
o'clock. . /MM
Candidates (or county offices j .'1
will be there and present their J"1;']
views on the Issues of the pre#-'jjajl
cnt campaign.
Candidates and members ef L'S
other parties are cordially In- j ?
vltod to be present and express t^js
their views.
,7
