. FAIR ,. PLAY
VOLUME XTiV. STR. GKNEVIKVK, AIIHSOUHJ, SATrHDAV. NOV EM HKH 4. 11)10. NUMBER. 2S.
MS OF THEM
FROM
WORLD
HAPPENINGS IN OUR OWN AND
OTHER COUNTRIES HERE
ARE BRIEFLY TOLD.
SHORT ITEMS FOR BUSY MEN
Condensation of Week's News Re
viewed Without Comment All
Watlone Find Soucthlgg to
Edify and Instruct.
To meet tlio increased cost of liv
ing, tho People's Gas Light and Coke
Co. of Chicago has announced a vol
untary ralso of 10 per cent in tho
wages of 3,700 employes, of whom all
aro getting less than $200 a month.
Flro of an unknown origin In tho
warehouse of tho American Tobacco
Co., In Richmond, Va., destroyed 3,000
hogsheads of tobacco, valued at
?330,000.
Ben P. JIcKee, Jeff Harrison and
H. Grady Webb were Indicted by a
federal grand jury on a charge of rob
bing a Louisville & Nashville train
near Greenville, Ala., on July 9, 11)15.
Threo trainmen were killed when
the caboose In which they wero rid
ing was demolished by nn engine of
another train which, ran Into It in the
tralnyard In Gibson, Ind.
Having shot and killed Eugene Pres
ton, whom he mistook for a deer, ac
cording to advices received In Be
mldjl, Minn., Richard Martin of Grant
Valley, Minn., Is held under a chargo
of manslaughter.
Tho new Trolpastta canal, In Swe
den, has been opened by King Gus
tav, says tho Overseas News Agency.
Tho canal establishes communication
between Vener lako and the North
sea and Its construction took seven
years.
In tho first two years of operation
the Panama canal tolls amounted to
$7,411,6S2, although the waterway was
closed half of a year, duo to repairs.
A total of 2.0S7 ships passed through
tho canal.
Ono man was killed end 19 others
were cut, burned or bruised when a
local McKluley passenger car left tho
rails at Big Mooney Hollow, 111.
Preparations for a national "turn-the-clock-forwaid-an-hour"
convention
In December wero discussed at a meet
ing In New York.
Women and girls will no longer bo
allowed to work longer than nino
hours a day as a result of an order is
Bued by tho labor and industrial com
mission in Kansas.
Brig. Gen. W. A. Mann, commanding
tho army division with headquarters
at Laredo, Tex., was selected for chief
of tho division for militia affairs in
the war department, made vacant by
tho death of MaJ. Gen. Albert J. Mills.
Jens Jensen, a fisherman, residing
at Blind Slough, Ore., was burned,
probably fatally, by tho explosion of
ijoal oil at his home. With his clothes
m flames, Jensen rushed from tho
house and jumped in a well, from
which ho was rescued.
Two young women wero killed In a
fire which wrecked a factory on East
Houston street, New York, causing
property damage estimated at
$100,000.
When lzzy Welsman told tho Judgo
that he did not steal tho 'duck found
under his coat tho duck said "quack,
quack." And, as the judge felt that
way about it, too, lzzy was held for
Irial in Now York.
Edgar W. Fosterwas found guilty of
tho murder of Bertha Kubovisz and
her 5-year-old son, of whom ho was
tho father, and his punishment was
fixed at life Imprisonment.
W. D. Synnian, a commandant in tho
Boer army in" tho war with Groat Brit
ain, whotcamo to this country shortly
beforo the war ended, and who later
went to Mexico, is dead from appendi
citis. . . . .
Harry Thaw Is a campaigner. Tho
ono-time frequenter of tho White Way
and tho slayer of Stanford White Is
out to beat Almet M. Jenks for tho
place of chief justlco of tho court of
appeals in New York.
r
Tho question of wages and hours of
labor will bo tho first thing taken up
by the joint subcommittee of congress
when It meets Nov, 20 to tako up its
Inquiry Into tho railroad situation,
Senator Newlands, chairman, has de
clared. Homer T. French pleaded guilty in
tho fodcral court in New York to the
chargo of impersonating a government
officer to extort $10,000 from Alfred
it. West. Eighteen months.
Emporor Francis Joseph has ap
pointed 1'rJnco Henry of Prussia,
ibrother of Emperor William, a grand
.admiral of thu Austrian navy.
A lierd of 30 ,or 40 deer, running
front the'ttmbermear Harlan, la., ran
.In front of a (Ireat Western train,
ffbroo of the deer wero killed.
Nlntecn dead Is tho result of an ex
plosion In tho Marvel (Ala.) mlno ot
the lloden Coal Co. Ono was killed
by a fall from a ladder whllo doing
rescue work.
United States mall will bo carried
from Chicago to New York by aero
plane, It was announced.
A. J, Johnson, who shot and killed
a street car conductor In Jasper coun
ty and who was secretly brought to
tho Barton county Jail, tried to kill
himself in his cell by eating ground
glass and drinking a disinfectant. Ilia
condition Is serious,
Tho three-story colonial residence
on tho Hayflcld farm, In Fairfax coun
ty, Va which was built In 1772 by.
George Washington, was destroyed by
fire.
Tho semi-annual meeting of tho
board of bishops of tho Methodist
church, tho administrative body of tho
denomination, opened In Minneapolis,
Minn,, and will continue in session for
a week.
Twenty Chicago firemen wero over
come in a flro In a largo grocery and
meat house on Madison street, in tho
loop district. The loss Is placed at
moro than $10,000.
A worker in a London munition fac
tory on whom ono match was found
was fined $5 or 14 days at Gloucester.
Louis Horowitz, whoso hair was
burned off whllo ho was getting n
"crude oil" shampoo in Now York
City, charged tho barber with aBsault.
Magistrate Corrlgan, however, ruled
that Horowitz was not assaulted.
Convicted of selling liquor, Will
Bishop of Atlanta, Ga asked for a
new trial on tho ground that ho Is
blind and could not see tho witnesses
against him or gather evldenco In re
buttal. Tho court sustained tho sen
tence. What this country needs Is moro
pennies, according to tho treasury de
partment. To this end tho Philadel
phia and San Francisco mints aro
working 24 hours a day and tho Den
ver mint 10 hours a day to turn them
out.
Loss of a part of tho central Illinois
corn crop Is now threatened through
an unprecedented shortage of farm
hands. Tho husking crews which
usually flock from Indiana, Kentucky
and southern Illinois Into tho corn
fields at harvest tlmo aro missing.
Students of the Atlanta (Ga.) school
for tho deaf will receive military train
ing. Commands will be conveyed by
signs.
Circuit Judgo W. M. Reed called a
special session ot tho grand Jury to
Investigate the lynching of two ne
groes in Paducah, Ky.
Detectives Fluan and Iteilly of New
York arrested James A. Brown, be
lieved to bo ono of tho principals In
the blackmailing gang.
A German light cruiser has been tor
pedoed by a British submarine. The
cruiser remained afloat.
Sir Joseph Beecham, tho patent
medicine manufacturer, was found
dead In his bed ut Hampstead.
Eighteen men lost their lives In an
explosion In the Itoden (Ala.) coal
mine.
Sixteen of the crew ot tho steamship
L. Edward Hlnes wero drowned when
tho vessel was sunk In the Caribbean
sea 45 miles cast of Belize, British
Honduras.
it is reported that Dr. Bull has been
sentenced in Belgium to six years on
tho chargo of treason. Dr. Bull was
charged with havlns provided funds
for Miss Edith Cavell.
Fort Yellowstone army post has been
closed and tho troops stationed thero
ordered to tho border.
Chief of Police Charles C. Ilealy ot
Chicago was Indicted by the Octobor
grand Jury on a chargo of malfeas
ance. A banquet was given In London for
tho American commission for relief in
Belgium, in celebrating the second an
niversary of tho beginning of tho
work.
Tho Alaskan engineering commis
sion is now employing a force of 525
men and 04 station men in tho rejuvo
natlon of tho AlaBka Northern railway.
Juarez reports that 500 Vllllstaa en
gaged 2,000 Carrauzlstas In battle near
Chihuahua City and .tho do facto mon
wero utterly routed' and their com
mnmler slain.
Panama canal authorities have just
completed and opened to public uso a
vast drydock a( Balboa. The "now dry
dock is" 1,000 feet iorig tan'd '110 feet
wide,
M
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Jones of Bu
chanan county, Mo., bavo been mar
ried 71 years.
A hairpin famine has hit tho United
States, Tho countries which havo al
ways supplied tho pins aro keeping
all their wlro at homo for ammunitio
Miss Ada Ilodglns, 42 years old, ot
Winona, Minn., nn heiress, leaped from
tho fourth-story window in her sulto
ut a fnsulonablo hotel. Mlsa Hodglus
had been bllud for yoard,
Becauso he failed to uso less power,
'"Lea" Powo'r, a negro chauffeur, was
fined $50 for speeding in Jamaica,
N. Y
HALT M'D ANIEL CASE
Entire Panel of Veniremen Dis
' missed by Judge Ryan in
St. Joseph Court.
HARD BLOW TO THE DEFENDANT
Alleged Statement by Attorney Gen
eral Darker Caused the Action
Commission to Investigate.
Tho panel of veniremen from which
a Jury of twelve was to havo been se
lected for the trial or Oscar D. Mc
Donlel, prosecuting attorney, charged
with tho murder of his wife, was dis
missed by Judge Thomas F. Hyan of
the St Joseph criminal court, and tho
case continued until November 0.
The action enmo as a result of a
clash at the end of tho dny's session,
when Charles F. Strop, chief of coun
sel for McDanlel, took Issue In open
court with Attorney General John T.
Barker concerning a newspaper Inter
view In which Barker was quoted as
having snld. "I cannot get over tho
idea that tho state Is being 'jobbed' in
this jury."
Upon announcing tho dismissal of
tho Jury, tho judge appointed a com
mission of three St. Joseph attorneys,
G. L. Zwlck, H. K. White and John
Connctt, to make. a thorough Investi
gation of tho methods used in draw
ing tho Jury panel, of tho personnel ot
the panel, and of the statement the
attorney general Is quoted as having
made.
"This Is a serious matter, gentle
men," tho Judgo charged them, "and
I want you to go to the very bottom
of this accusation."
Judgo Ryan strongly censured At
torney General Barker for having
made the remark, and explained that
he, Hyan, had seen tho Jury wheel
operated and the names drawn. Ho
said there was no posslblo chanco for
crookedness to have been Injected In
to the drawing ot the names.
He also arraigned Strop for having
"shown poor taste" In bringing a mat
ter of that sort to the attention of the
court In open session where prospec
tive Jurors might hear tho discussion.
Ho said Strop should have como to
hi ill, tho judgo, first, and explained
tho matter so it would have no effect
upon tho minds -f tho jurymen.
Hid $10,000 In Her Home.
Ten thousand dollars in silver, gold
and bills of various denomination was
the amount found at tho homo of Mrs.
William Kadell In Moberly by Frank
Holman, public administrator, who
was searching for her will. Mrs.
Kadell, the widow of a pioneer
Moberly bakef, dropped dead whllo
talking to a friend. Since the death
of her husband, ten years ago, she had
conducted the bakery, where she made
her home. A rumor that she had left
a will was responsible for tho discov
ery of the money.
Big Zinc Find at Springfield.
Another big zinc strike has been
made near Sprlugfleld. C. D. Meyer,
I a prominent miner, who has taken
i $120,000 worth of oro from the ground
in less than a year, says ho has made
a strike worth $100,000. Tho mlno Is
less than ten mlics from Springfield
and Is clos.o to another irino which
I Meyer asserts yet contains one-half
million In jack.
Legislator's Mother Dead.
' Mrs. Barbee, mother ot Satino
County's rdprescntatlVo In tho leglsla
I turc, Joshua Barbee, Is dead at her
1 homo In Marshall. Sho was born In
Lafuyotto County in 1830.
Sewer Caved In; Two Dead.
Joseph Marsh and Charles Forseo
wero killed at Columbia when a sewer
ditch which they wero digging caved
In. Another workman was Injured.
Tho two men were burled under sov-
t eral feet of earth and wore dead when
reached. Both wero married.
Judgo Elmer B. Adams Dead.
Elmer 1). Adams, 73 years old, a
judge of tho United States Circuit
Court ot Appeals, Is dead at his homo
In St. Louis, following a 10-dny Ill
ness. Judge Adams was born October
27, 1842, ut Pomfret, Vt. His father
wa. Jarvls Adams, a rigorous Puritan
and lineal descendant of that Henry
Adam3 who was tho American pro
genitor of ;he distinguished family
which furnished tho Untied States two
Presidents and several statesmen.
Fulton Farmer a Suicide.
Jacob Straw, a farmer of Tebbetts,
shook hands with his wlfo recently
and then wont out In the' yard and
killed himself with n shotgun. Ho had
suffered for a long tlmo with a severo
attack of rheumatism.
Joplln Attorney Shoots Burglar,
Charles It. Warden, an nttornoy of
Joplln, shot and killed a burglar as
tile latter entered tho Warden home.
Wnrdn was awnkoncd by a noise ut
the front door. Ho nroso, telzed a re
volver, and hid behind a closet door.
As tho man entered, Warden shot
him.
Powder Mills Under Way.
Two now powder mills now aro un
der construction In Jnsper County,
and It Is expected thoy will commence
operations by the first ot tho year.
PLAN A STATE CENTENNIAL
Committee on Missouri's Big Celebra
tion Called to Meet at Kansas City
November 24,
A committee of one thousand Mis
sourlans, appointed by thu stntc his
torical society, to plan for the adequato
celebration ot the hundredth anniver
sary of tho admission of Missouri to
tho Union, has been called to meet
at tho Hotel .Muohlcbach In Kansas
City, November 24 and 25.
Mayor George H. Edwards will wel
come tho ,comuilttee with an address
at 9:30 o'clock at the Hotel Muehle
bach. Other addresses of welcome
will be given by Charles E. Facth, pres
ident of the Kn.isas City Commercial
Club, and J. i). White, president of ilio
Missouri Valley Historical Society.
Jay L. Torroy of 1-iuitvUIo will re
spond. The permanent organization
of tho centennial committee will bo
made nt tho morning session.
In tho afternoon Walter B. Stevens
of St. Louis will deliver nn address on
"Missouri's Centennial." The follow
ing will also talk: Governor Elliott
W. Major, Champ Clark, James A.
Heed and William J. Stone. The even
ing session will be held in tho Kansas
City Commercial Club rooms. Ex
Governor Herbert S. Hndley will ad
dress tho meeting.
On Saturday the report of tho exec
utive committee will be heard at the
Muchlebach Hotel. Five-minute ad
dresses will be given by E. M. Clcn
dennlng of Kansas City and Halo II.
Cook of Kansas City, John II. Ilothwell
ot Sedalla, Theo. Gary of Macon, W.
O. L. Jewell of Shelblna and others.
M. U. NINE TO VISIT JAPAN
Ball Players of the State University
May Get a Trip to the Orient
Next Summer.
Unless present plans go astray, the
I91G Tiger basebnll nlno will leave for
a trip to the Orltnt about Juno 15.
Present plans Include Kelo, Waseda
and other Japanese universities.
Tho trip will be similar to tho ono
taken by tho University ot Chicago
team recently, nnd will Include side
visits to Honolulu, Shanghai, Manila
and other Oriental cities.
"While the tour Is only a possibility
now," said Athletic Director Chester
L. Brewer, "there is a good chance of
tho plans working out. Wo uro nego
tiating with tho Japanese and should
know definitely by the end of tho
month whether or not we will go."
TKo Tigers, If tho trip is made, will
leave here about tho middle of June,
sailing from San Francisco for Hono
lulu, where they will play their first
series. From there thoy will go to To
kio and meet teams from Keio and
Waseda universities. A trip to Shang
hai, where threo games will bo played
with a team mado up ot sailors of tho
Far Eastern squadron of tho United
States navy, will bo Included In tho
Itinerary.
United States army teams will bo
mot In tho Philippines and games will
also bo played In Manilla. From Ma
nila tho Tigers will Journey to Yoko
hama and Toklo again to play a return
scries with Waseda and Kelo, coming
back to tho United States by way of
Honolulu sor-o tlmo in January.
New Head for Girls' Home.
Tho resignation of Mrs. A. M. Clay
Ives as superintendent of tho Indus
trial Homo for Girls, located in Chllll
cotho, was accepted by tho board of
control at a meeting held thero in Oc
tober, It became known recently. Miss
Anna Wilson of Beloit, Kas., was ap
pointed by the board to complete tho
term of Mrs. Ives, which expires on
May 1 next year.
Pays J3,000 to Ship Horses.
A carload of horses was shipped
from Monioo City by express to Lan
caster, Pa., tho other day. Tho ship
per was Henry Well nnd the express
charges amounted to $3,000.
Pioneer Missourian Dead.
C. J. Stock, pioneer of Northeast
missourl is dead nt tho home of his
daughter, Mrs. Chnrlos M. Schuhardt.
in Montgomery. He was SC years old
and was a citizen of Warren County
for sixty years beforo coming to Mont
gomery County.
Shot With "Unloaded" Rifle.
Joseph Simmons, 15 yoars old, was
shot fatally at Sedalla by Peter
Boyder, a boy companion, who did not
know a target rifle was loaded. The
boys wero at play when the rifle was
accidentally discharged.
Enjoins Springfield Strikers.
Judgo Arba Van Vnlkenburg of Kan
sas City has granted a temporary In
junction restraining tho striking mo
tormen nnd conductors from any acts
of violence to property of the Spring
field Traction Company.
Political Writer Dead.
A. A. Hess, 87 years old, a political
writer, Is dead nt his homo in Jones
burg, Montgomery County. Ho was
burled at Jonesburg.
Montgomery Pioneer Dead at 71.
Thomas Jefferson Goodman died re
cently In tho samo room In which ho
was born at his homo near Amcrlcus,
Montgomery County. Ho wa3 71 years
old, His grandfnthor woiked on tho
samo farm with Thomas Jefferson In
Virginia,
Col., Ogden of St. Joseph Dead,
Col. Nathan Phlpps Ogden, pioneer
banker and capitalist ot St. Josoph, Is
dead at his homo In that city, Ho was
SG years old and had been a restden
of St, Joseph slnco 1880,
E
F
TENTI
SLEW FATHER AND RECEIVED
LIFE SENTENCE FOR HEIN
OL'S CRIME.
BROTHER FEARS HIS SAFETY
Was Member of Prison Orchestra and
Fled While Band Vas Playing
for pancc PUyed trr&jl (
First Violin..
Jefferson City.
Arthur Blttner, 20 years old, of St.
Iouls, serving n life sentence In tho
penitentiary hero for tho murder of
his father, escaped when at McClung
Park, where as a member of tho or
chestra, ho was playing at tho week
ly danco.
Dinner's escapo was not noticed
until the orchestra members wen
lng checked In on their return to
the penitentiary from McClung Park.
It is supposed he disappeared about
midnight, near tho end of tho dance.
He was tho first violinist. The band
members always have been attired
In white suits with no visible num
bers. The dancc3 have been held at Mc
Clung Park since tho completion,
about eight months ago, of a large
pavilion. They aro attended mostly
by tho leading residents of tho capi
tal. McClung Park la state property
that has been Improved and mado In
to a pleasure resort with tho .aid of
convict labor and public subscriptions
among Jefferson City residents. It
was named after Warden McClung.
Detectives, notified of Blttner's es
cape, have been watching St. Louts
iralns for him.
Blttner murdered his father, Ar
ihur Blttner, Sr., July 22, 1913. At that
ilme tho youth wanted to marry Miss
Myrtle Benhoff, but was without
-nonoy, and his father, a North St.
!xuls butcher, refused to supply him.
One morning, as his father and his
brother, Edward, were driving down
town In nn auto truck, Arthur got up
')ehlnd them nnd shot his father In
he head. Edward later accusscd
Yrthur of the crime,
Edward told tho police he had not
tcard anything from his brother and
lioped that they would catch him "be
fore h sees me."
$ues to Save Tax.
W. H. Orthweln of St. Louis, at
:orney for tb,e KInloch Telephone Co...
has filed application in the state su
preme court for a writ of mandamus
against Secretary of State Iloach to
compel him to allow the company to
axtend Its charter 20 years without
paying the corporation tax of $5,000.
Orthweln holds that tho Incorpora
tion law which provides that In or
iginal incorporation applications In
which no period of time la specified,
the period shall bo understood to bo
20 years, which gives the company tho
privilege of renewing at will without
paying the original Incorporation fee.
iloach holds that tho tax should be
paid.
Live Stock Man Speaks.
Rudolph M. Patterson, a member
of the state board of live stock com
mission from Chicago Heights, Cook
county, addressed tho Monroe County
Farmer's Institute. Patterson's sub
ject was "tho Prevention of Foot-and-Mouth
DIseaso, Hog Cholera and other
nlmal Diseases."
Tho difference between farming
aow and 25 years ago when Patterson
bought his first farm in Illinois is
pointed out by tho speaker. Patter
son said that every year brough im
provements both in method of farm
ing nnd In tho comforts for tho fam
ily. High-grade btock at a slightly In
creased cost was Patterson's recom
mendation over cheap stock at a low
price. He said that this was particu
larly true In dairying. Patterson told
the members of the Instltuto that
sanitation was ono of the greatest
problems of tho farmer today.
Hadley for Rural Credits.
Judgo Henry Lamm, Republican
candidate for governor, who in his
campaign speeches .attacks the Gard
ner land bnnk bill and rural credits
generally. Is not In accord on this
subject with former Gov. Herbert S.
Hadley, whom Judge Lamm also in
his campaign speeches professes to
believe Is tho greatest statesman that
Missouri has over had slnco tho days
of Thomas Hart Benton.
Hadley believed so strongly In tho
"farm credits" idea that In his fare
well message to tho forty-seventh
general nssembly, at tho closo of his
term of office as governor in January,
1913, ho mado a strong recommenda
tion In favor of tho system.
Ask for Better Shipping Facilities.
Tho Quick Meal Stovo Company
of St. Louis filed an application to
Interfere In n hearing to bo held by
tho stato public servlco commission,
on tho McKlnley system's request for
track connections with tho Torinlnal
Ruilroad Association. Tho hearing
will bo held in St, Louis at the Plant
ers' Hotel on November 2.
i Tho -stove company wants track
connections tiom Its plant at King's
highway and Daggett stioet with tho
McKlnley system, Its officers stato
they now haul goods to tho system.
Hunting Is Good.
Tho recent cool weather changes
very materially added to the Joys of
the duck hunters in this state. Tho
stormy weather at the end ot tho
prevloua week bi ought with It a big
flight of waterfowl Wherever there
was suitable n traction the big flocks
of migratory birds wore in evidence.
A great number of hunters were
ufleld whon '.he birds arrived, nnd
many secured the legal bag limit of i
ducks, while others bagged the limit
of jacksnlpe. Quito a few plover i
were also killed, nnd several sports-
. t.nt.i ,.1 t ...I.,.,. I
hiuu Ituieu kuiui-u iiiuvei. wuiuu va
riety Is now very scarce nnd seldom
seen In this locality.
Registration Frauds.
A police investigation of tho regis
tration iu tho St. Louis district In
which the greater part' ot tho negro
vote Is found, was commenced nt tho
request of tho board of election com
missioners. This Is in lino with
similar investigations started In other
cities since reports havo been cur
rent that large numbers of negroes
wero bong brought from tho South
to bo voted In the general election.
Tho police department also has in
formation that federal Investigators
are In St. Louis Inquiring into tho
negro registrations. Government
agents aro also Investigating the reg
istrations in Kansas City, whero It
Is reported there are 4,000 new ne
groes. New Missouri Slogan.
"Let us show you" Is the slogan for
Missouri urged by Charles F. Hat
field, secretary and general manager
of tho St. Louis Convention and Pub
licity Bureau, In a letter which has
gone to tho presidents nnd secretaries
of organizations. It Is suggested In
place of "Show me."
Barker Will Practice Law.
Attorney General John T. Barker,
whoso term will expire In little moro
than two months, told his friends ho
Is undecided whether he will mako
Kansas City or St. Louis his orae.
He will resume to practice of law.
The facts In tho controversy be
tween members of tho stato adminis
tration and the Republicans over pen
sions to the Confederate veterans ap
pears to bo as follows:
All of tho money actually appropri
ated by the legislature for Confeder
ate pensions has been paid. State
officials aro prohibited by law from
paying out money not appropriated
by the legislature.
The legislature of 1913 passed a law
approved by Governor Major, to pen
sion Confederate veterans nt $10 a
month. As thero aro about 1,500 vet
erans In tho stato entitled to pen
sions, under the law It would require
about $180,000 thousand a year to
meet tho requirements of the law.
Under the policy of secrecy main
tained by the administration, It Is im
possible to find out just how much the
state is behind In the payment of
these pensions. Tho statement of of
ficials of tho administration, nnd of
Frederick D. Gardner, Democratic can
didate for governor, that all the money
appropriated for these pensions has
been paid out is true, but the Repub
lican chargo that tho stato is behind
with tho pension is also true.
Missouri Roads Bad.
Word comes to the capital city
that an automobile driver has been
complaining of Missouri roads. He
says that twenty-seven wagons and
buggies stalled In the mud between
Holden nnd Pleasant Hill, Mo., and
tries to give an Idea of the condition
of Missouri roads after a h".ivy rain.
William Warwick, the automobllo
man, of Seattle, Wash., who is making
a transcoutlnentl trip In n XVi ton
truck under the ausnlces of the Sc-
tho vehicles on his way from Holden
to Pleasant Mill.
Warwick went from Seattle to New
York In 31 days with a load of con
densed milk. He left New York Oct.
4, using tho National Old Trails High
way. Tho worst roads encountered
on the return trip wero In Missouri,
ho said.
Gov. Major has long made good
roads a hobby, and It la well-known
that many thousands ot miles of
highways havo been Improved un
der his guiding hand. Frank Buffum
of Hannibal has also been active In
this propaganda, and every effort Di
this has been made to Improve their
condition.
Shopmen Get Increase.
Tho shopmen of the locomotive- de
partment of the Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Hallway havo been granted
Increases in wagea of 1H to 2V4 cinta
an hour.
To Improve Missouri Pacific.
Judge Hook, In tho federal court nt
St. Paul, has Issued an order to bo
transmitted hero authorizing Receiver
B. F. Bush of tho Missouri Paclflc
lron Mountain to expend $1,200,000 In
now equipment and for general Im
provement work on the lines of the
Missouri Pacific-Iron Mountain.
Raise Bank Tax,
Tho proceedings to ovorruld the city
board of . equalization ot St. Louis
In nsscBsInK the personal property ol
banks and trust companies has been
argued beforo tho supremo court. The
stato board of equalization has fixed
the uniform raluo ot tho personal
property of banks and trust compan
ies at SO cents nn the dollar. This
was Increased In SC Louis by the lo
cal board to 70 cents adding about
l $15,000,000 to the valuation ot the
taxable, property of these, institutions.
Rullus la not expected tot a month.
Proposed Amendments to the
Constitution of Missouri
jrmST COnflTITCTIfWAI, AMENI
MF.NT. Joint and rnnrnrrfnl rcaolnttnn oh
mlttlnff to the qfiatlflftrf TAtfri of the tate
f Mttnoarl, an Htnfnitmrnt to the Con
tlliillon thereof, rom-eralng penilene t
tbe dtflcrrlnr blind.
B il rtithtj ty the Stvnlt, Iht font of
Ktfruentotivet concurring tftcrcint
Tht st the penral election to he hold
on Tuenrtajr following the flnt Monday
In NovemhiT, Will, there hI1 be enhmltted
p the qualified voter of MIeioort, for adop
tion or rejection, the following' constitu
tional amendment, to-wtt:
That eeetlon 47 of article IV of the Con
atltuttnn he amended br addtnjc thereto
the fblloTClnir word?: 'Prorlded further,
that nothlntr In tnli Conetttntlon contained
hall be construed aa prohibiting the Ben
eral aasemuly from imntlne, or anthorli
Init the srantlne of, pensions to the de
aerrlnif blind, nn mar be pro-rtded and
rejrulated by law."
SECOKD CONSTITTTIOWAI. A5IEND
SIKNT, Proposed by Initiative Petition.
To empower the T.exIMatnre of Mlonrl
to create, by ppeelal law, n State Irfini!
Hank with power to loan money neeured
hr deed of trunt on nirrlcnltural lamia
and to lue homlfl, and authorizing the
appropriation of One Million Dollar! (!,
OOO.OOO.OO) out or the State Treasury for
that purpose, and to exempt the capital
and homlb ot said hank from taxation,
and TnllilatlnaT any leclslntlon heretofore
enacted for such purposes.
tiissoriii sTATn r,ANn nAtn AJrnsD-
JIENT TO TIIJ5 CONSTITUTION.
Proposed by leual Totera by InltlnltTt
Tetltiona under the Inltlatlre and liefer
caelum Provisions of the Constitution,
empowering the General Assembly to en.
act n special law creating a corporation to
be known as the Missouri State Land llnnk,
with powers to mohlllie and liquidize farm
eredlta, to appropriate state moneys na
a loan In nld thereof, nnd exempting from
Into, county nnd municipal taxes all of
the assets of said bnnk, also debenture'
bonds Issued by It, and prorldtng for th
validating of any law enacted by the Gen
eral Assembly In accordance herewith.
Di it enacted by tht (ta(U of tht Stair op,
Uiiicurt thai the CcniHtution be to amended
e to trotide ae ioUowst
Section 1. The General Assembly la here-i
by empowered to enact a special law to
create n corporation to be known aa therf
Missouri State Land Hank, with power to1
make loans on notes secured by deeda of,
trust or mortKaecs upon agricultural lands.)
and to Issue debenture bonda acalnat' ttaa,
samo with all suitable and Incidental!
powera. And to enact other special law
at the same session or at other sessions ofj
the General Assembly to amend and tm-i
prove the said act, or to supply omission,
or correct errors or defects therein.
Section 2. The General Assembly Is bere-i
by authorized nnd empowered to enact a
law or laws appropriating as a loan out of
the moneys of the State Treasury, thol
sum of one million dollivs aa a worklngi
canltnl for said corporation.
Section X The General Assembly la,
hereby authorized nnd empowered to. en-i
act a lnw or laws exempting from state,
county and municipal taxes tho assets of
aid Missouri State Land Itank and all de
benture bonds Issued by It.
Section 4. Any law herctoforo enacted!
by the General Assembly In accordance'
with the provisions of Sections 1, 2 and V
hereof shall be deemed valid from and after!
the: adoption hereof.
Tllllin CONSTITUTIONAL AMEND
MENT. Proposed by Initiative Petition.
Prohibiting after July nrsi, lDir, the
manufacture of, the Introduction into,, and
tbe ailing-, exrhnnglag, bartering, elllnr
r disposing of Intoxicating liquors In th
State of Missouri, except wine for sarra
meotal purposes, prescribing a penalty
for the violation thereof nnd repealing alii
parts of the Constitution, Statutes and Mu
nicipal Laws In conflict therewith.
Proposed amendment to the Constitution
of Missouri, to bs submitted to the legal
voters of the State of Missouri for tbelr
approral or rejection nt the regular gen
eral election to bo held on the aeventh day
of November, A. D. 1010, prohibiting th
manufacture of, the Introduction Into, and
the giving, exchanging, bartering, selling,
or disposing of Intoxicating liquors In the.
State of Missouri, except wine for sacra
mental purposes, prescribing a penalty for
the violation thereof nnd repealing all part
of the State Constitution, State and Munic
ipal Laws In conflict therewith.
Be it enacted by the feople of the Stale ot
itusourt: 1
Section 1. From nnd after July first.
1017. no Intoxicating liquor or llnnors!
except wine for sacramental purposes, shali
he manufactured In or introduced Into the
Stato of Missouri under any pretpnse
Every person who sells, exchanges, gives
barters, or disposes of Intoxicating liquor
or any kind to any person In the State of
Missouri, or who manufactures, or Intro
duces Into, or attempts to Introduce- Into
tho State of Missouri, Intoxicating liquor
of nny kind: except wine as aforesaid for
the purposes aforesaid; shall he guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not less than threo
hundred dollars nor more than one thou
sand dollars, or by Imprisonment In tbe
county jail not lass than six months nor
moro than twelve months, or by both such
One and Imprisonment.
All parts of the Stato Constitution, and
laws of the Stntc and municipalities there
in, conflicting with the provision of thla
eeetlon, are hereby repealed.
STATU OF MISSOURI. )
Department of State 1
I, Cornellua ltoAoh, Secretary of 8tat
? th Stato of Missouri, hereby certify
that the foregoing la a full, true and com.
pleto copy of the ono Joint nnd concurrent
resolution of the Forty eighth General t
embly of tho Stnto of Missouri of the pro
posed amendment to the Constitution of
the State of Missouri; also, of the two
amendments to the Constitution proposed
by Initiative petition, to he submitted to
tbe quallBe.1 voters of the State of Missouri
at the geteral election to he held on Tues
day, tho seventh day of November, 1018.
In testimony whereof, r hereunto net
my hand nnd affixed tbe Greut Seal of tS
State of Missouri. Done at office In tha
City of Jefferson, thla 8th day of Sep-tem.
fSeall
"Married life," says a womnn's pago
writer, "would bo Infinitely happier
If married men would obey tho whims
of their wtves with half tho alacrity
they displayed when their wives wero
their swvfthenrts." Why not make
allowance for tho fact that n bach
elor Isnt eternally worn out humor
luc hit sweetheart's whlmslcnl Idea
that there's n burglar in tho houso
nnd Uuutlnc for him with n Hash
llKhtt A professional prophet coys the war
will end this year, bcQiuiso tho hands
of tho French und British aristocracy
show squaro lingers nnd hard palms.
Hut tho world nt inrgo will require
evldenco of n llttlo moro definite char
acter thnu this to bo assured ot tho
desirable event.
Inasmuch ns dyes of tho rurer colors
nre now quoted nt $70 a pound, It looks
na If most of us would lmvo to go along
with garments of tho commoner color.
Hut, renlly, you know, that's VyUfJrflqat,
ot us havo ulways dono. j
SCCWCTAWY Of-STATC
