The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANCIIVILLI, W0ST FPLICIANA PARISH, LOUlSIANA, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1016 NO. 40
- --l ..........  in . -L__I ._.. nn ~-L . .. I _ _ n · ' ~tri;---- ii ..,L .. i -unmn m nnn m .... _- - ... . - ___ - n II um munm unnmnmIn
AMENDMENTS 9ftAINEO
Amendment No. 1-Th1i is Iii. &taaai ali
Ii iiit I i jditei piin f na t 're d"1 f it
' 1t, ut N4'%% (irTsl!.lt iiw A!,c it. (')h(W~
trcarcl :11141 In l lrto.' 14,9111, ('11 i cmatlr
piasis aauI giruhtihitpi tiitif,i ani4ipitEionth1
utf I a. r u'pelIw %f1 1 is good Ifilif
it fifi I uisrii Ii iil(IIM. 'il1 hi 111uuiwane II
tll-iltiflil an~d )is it crii t rnt4 4 44 · ( t
cuf Ni ' 4 )ºrI.*i.1 ,aniad as d.'iii nl b)> I him'
1)14'41u' Is life ri'asfeb a~ It 4 Ii 4:4t IIiij Iii it
14is It IN tr 1111 pa n14t
Amendment No 2-'Ihis * xtiuiidu the
4Iji rail ili lt lii 114. pf'I"itli' (feitif iii thu"
r4If~IliI 4 44)4 its :t 11- -as 11,,4 it is itlla
fi lifil to iw h till's ) 1ii ~i ~iit K(Nd fi iie
lit'..Ii ,if il tia 141 uftieludri4 astiild sipii
lIi M~riii~l ii I· Iii. j'iiiiiti. r H liii?~lac Iii ilii
114' tit r l < ilt uiYltntt'ni ar, 1111n Ii ilir t
Icrr urtwt1,11 t '. lrt tliiu . 141141 0.11n n' e( I~lr
m 1" ~ 1 1,1 1 i. 4114'144 11/(\( i,( ·r(·)( ·( · 1(
Iiº I t i. 111 ihNc.(` 1 i rd fl1 ni'qi
'rhiai Ii Cs -ia if i114 4'siueiinl 4111ii '. 4:1
Ssli tat?.
Amendment No. 3--7'h1 /tins - lrrtcin
ti'iiisr fcib tii a oh of~ it jietijli f
IrtaIa, hinijur it a illaiita iii heru1!th.'in
hut herijt)1; uniter ilii jinit'iK ' ui º' I al
ii ee Ii~c rai lug ais Hjfifle hal ItI·,1 itih
Iit Illa Ish ti )14"It 141 Ii"' 1ºeig I anefll
saf ricils he'gItrie'l iiit iii'' alirisho ( itr
h uthnrtrc' nnd4r tlt'11risnii 044.4
Sthr.'n 1*s 1's htail at tst~imfit aea4a ftatr 14
aIt twie IS tHid ri 1a irNiI taf t o a ut r.
tota.)tie4 l titII Will titit ~ita ' I1fie 4i ahi
Amt ndm nt No. 4 ot is'> AtPissra4e.e
Iol ill it. ( It'd N -tt- C Irhi no Ii had. firl
ruinnel Ili. NI Iu'eiss'Iigii ri a r 'Ni stil,,
I4e'id Iili riii faie h *rli ohrt to thai?
Amendment No. 5--This plat, they
disttitet ltttfrney 3 of Nia' tlfieatapi on it
4ai~i% hi i tmiitp 1111( iibtil liehi ffIfi5 atcid itl
a largtii ,iat lo1 anad dtitocainht cosit t i't
iihit iiit S iiaffi' The eeftjilt oft $)ii 14451
Is' rathe'r lairge, buti at file sttui titia' It
gis much liena1 I hai tiit jniaufkrih and it
the ilinatill14rtiit ,ahiqtnud heticuti. d.)fian
aI niteijilit fIiiiiii 14i' ti4risf.'iat iplai.,
Iirateide P sit? fItf ien4. '.441 hade 114'44 0,111"
tasart t hls auifrihudinu'ol
Amendment No. -'-I'innuiztui %tmi'itil
tit uie*Fvf tinl the' tajirho' iis drtionuti.
efirrfehititinal anad Iiisrit) beuard. t4 4h.+
staitf atndt Is' Ut nimiti) ifnji~ri4'irh ay' tit!'
gtoo.l N ,tornite of the satle They are
e.rtrini. rl lnpetent for these places,
noild Ihis is a step in the right direction.
Lt t tii, all rot, for it
I Amendment No. ?-This gives the
• 'of,,, rate Ve'terans all the money
,I d(ro,,.ol from the peuiooieln tax anid does
I not, limlnit ormi. and aluthorises an in
t c'Oet.r of the samIe to $25 per month
., as tht funds Ioc"'1nts n ailable for this
s puirtore' .l.et oIs support It heartily
Amendment No. '--This only author*.
n t0 i h the,' city of Shreveport in found its
4 htojain ditoit int1o bonds.
Amendment No, f-T'his amendment
.nioh,'st h h, authorlty of the legisla
ltors r; ' rard tot harbHor mllld other Imri
pro' nt'ont tr is for the benefit of
I.,ok, I'harrlho Support it
A mendment No. 1--This amenlldmlrnt
t,tdt,.Oite for floTnitinIg Iho debt of teli,
pt'oot tl lt ; l i onor I to f lh. altount of
0 $401100 i ' a ., riot. 1,0t epg'eridirg ii pI.r
0no0 ' ftl flnded at abornt 4 4 per cent
1i.t'1r',ot iot par At the present tinme.
ithe ionrlI is paying froor0 6 too per
,iii onl its floating deitl, and if this
aoito'ndment Iso uopti,' it can easily
Mo;ie,, from $o100l 0040 to $12,o8l,0 per )ear
ii l0lºor,'lt alont.' 'This will also put
thIe board onl practically a cash baais,
whttrcis at prent it tIs paying hgllh
oprtinon for e'ver thing it buys bhecase
it it holt aible toh pay cash for It The
aloloptln of, tlo is aomolndmesrt Is almost
illu'rpur Iit o'
Amendment No. i1--This amendment
p,luocs iofficials lup)lot a salary basis andt
if dtlfeat,' d by the people the state and o
iMaruih,» will c'ontinue to pay the ex.
iotll'hnot fees that have been so mrch I
,'oomspinl: -d of in the recenrt campaglln. I
ef-,roo ,,o Pleasant's administration is I
itrylg toi r,'do'll'n the pledges made the
Ipeyo'l i the camlpalign and one of f
Irtom111 I t >t ootlclals he placed on a i
hoi' "t haI.o',. A.l insidious effort nmay
rto ltlllode Ito certain quarters to defeat :
rlit. ltform, butl without its adoption
'loI' Io'eislation carrying same Into ef1
f,,ti rflls wtth it and you will have no r
IDli f for a long time to come. Io not I
fOl Ito tote for Amendment No. I. ri
Amendment No. i1-This amendment I
ao,.l shes the state board of appraise I
ni1ent anld also the state board of equal. c
# Lsatin, Mnd ia lit t eestt h Roaltitg the h
Sslaftl boardl of affairs The cost of this t
c rIe board aill h.. ery little more'
a, after it is once' organiged than thye two
old boards which are abolished This
is the amendmtent a hich certain special
, ilterests, political and otherwise, are
lIoI sharpening their knives to kill
Sa',d are already endeavoring to be
cloud the issue and befuddle the minds
i of the people In regard to same' fy
s the adoption of this aimeudmnte-l asnd
the enabling act carrying sa into
effect, the pre'sent state administration
Sseeks to givee the people the reformn
demanded ;ns the subject of eqtalla
luan of taxes. I'nder the present
system the state valuation for asseas
ment and that of the' parishes and
citn Ies tust be the' namn. 'he effect
of this has been that grsces inequalities
ex'ist all iser the state in asse'ssments'
crtwuse in some parishesr and munici
paliti' the local taxes are so high fr
roades. schools, streets and other puir
poees that if their assessments were
put on the basia of other parishes that
have no such high local rates, it would
amountl to tal.nost cotfiscationl Now
this amrendmenst proposes to untile the,
valuiation of property for state, purposes
from the valuation for parish and local
purposer It does not change the sit
nation so far as the asmrasor is con
cerned in his election or duties toward
the, parish or towns. only he cannot
assess property for less than 2.1 per
cen't of the value' of the property,w ich
Is surely low enough to satisfy them
most penurious "tightwad " in this
any if the state' board proceeds to
equalizse the .aslues In the parishes for
state purposes it will not affect your
local assessment in the lPast, nor will
It increase taxation The preseht statiu
is not diaturbt.d lt'i unnecessary to
raise' more taxes on the people for the;
state government if we have the
right kind of Peonomy practiced in ourll
Sarielus lilnaitutlontts. He can get along
satisfactorily. though Iperhaps not as e,
elelgantiy and abtmrptuouly ias ctsne
state's that huae no hesided debt llve
ever, equalisatlon can be hrought hout it
it thish way without in the least in.
c reasinL the burdens uponl the people I
who are already paying all the taxes r
they should This amendment is ex.
esedingly inportant and should re- y
eive yomur tamot Iealiet and pltriotie
thouglht Romne troplaint is made that
this board would have, too; muich al,
thority. Of courge, it haa and uo ha.
Ihe police jury, the city council and
all other adminlstratlve bolies sf pub
LIe affairs. Thil board will inveatigas.'
the actual need. of eatch atate inslllttu
tiot. long before the ilslglatursi eon
venes and fix its appropriations upon
a business basis or budget an to Ispeak,
and therib will be no Ilolriling for
appropriatioln atI the legilalur Rlandl
no general appropriation bill el:ceed.
inag the revenflue
Amendment No. 1--Thiis' aonduls ent
affects New Orlennaltn and provides for
erctrling a Iena all tad good road
alont lake I'otstchartrain
Amendment No. 14--This is fo(r the
purplb,' of Co(np-ltu alll railroad= to.
matulan~l generaltR offi~cs in th plateClll
Amendment No. 15--Thi, is to a
thorizp parishes- and ('llipe to sit e a
speial tax niot t'ar·.dlKg one' mill for
Ifair and to, lpa lsr&'mn t 1 aris ' OairU.
hutal and other exhillbit It ill hIlp
various parish fairs which are v,,ry
profltabl tand beidlde t 'h ax  sah iLily
L, Ievi'd aftelir a vcslI' t I lhie ;,'.pl.'
thereon It i. all right
Amendment No. 1--This is a lcal
almlcndnesni allffectingl Nei ()rlan..
plachln the judicial expensr fInd ulldeY
control of the cIvil district judgesl and
Incrlasoll tl heir ~sintl.ies olle Ihusssand
lollars per ag(nam for doingl this aw rk
Amendment No. 17-This exemplts
ncsl' going s's'sslsl alholse doml ileh; are
5 IAlouilllana frocm talxati.i, and in itr
tendedl to, help bltih sp, the merchant
Amendment No. 18--Thisl amnsndment
p4'rmtss is th' It dro.sd ('sunsomisalon t1s
comprel l' allrth .~ilsd to gIhs f're' Itran's
-por!llissn (to oflcers and employeer of
the agl'risultual departlinil when ,n
agnld in their work s't the stlate
pay its ,swi way.
If a rsan thinks  every one Is against
hi m hI' till treat tiheni so they a11 ilbe
if he sthinka e'very onte in friend he
vill Irenat eteih ofie well and they will
be friends If a man in susypiclous. of
every Pns- they will be' sauplicious of
Iins You I4t just what ytou give, good
or had that'a sure. If you keep on
filbhing. 3!os11 eet licked some, time,
gs'd and phlnty
IITTLE ADS BRING RESULT~TI.
ALL G00D ROADS LEAD TO
Ii SHREVEPORT THIS WEEK
Ii it ltot rli imp lti every Elood roads
nit iat+io II" I 411P41a11 go In Shrvel'L
Isrt oa I)) Iv' h third aitd foutair I 14o attend
i ohe ) t'nventhton of the tAmialsina (Good
l I(1Mut A waic'Ialrapt 7'i ('T(hIe vnt11ion
a ill open atl Ill a IIi Friday the third
'at the Clit Ball heori' Mayor John
Mr% VFord will welt na.' the' deelegates
ai hboa will he followa ide 1% P'residIent
Mtlnrer and W F %ikauusoia, State'
It iRhwuy Elnginieer .1 W' I111iigil.'
will 'pe'ak during tIhe atternown, and
ona the teeoe end dat Ito,, .1 W Alex
' a de'r and Iusia John It I)vertiit will
te, laoe printcipal spe'ak.'rs The' con.
, e Bltion sill lay ipm atl a lreoai upon
ih.' follow ing poIntal I i l a comprehen
edvea plan for buldldaig pe-rna.tie'n roatds
iia n al N44'lotI, of hlie' Matat. 1 (2! call
for 1 eanir!alaaaiaa or of$1 frntn o eery
gota*t rroads adveaite in 11the- stiaitehirw h
i'oetaee Iiae laabeervht iii te hi'aIasoctat tRl
1'hep's l dlollnr rontriboilomna ashniatld be'
ntilli aLt ar.' is m A Ito IdArtAlduaa. di
reetror of puibhlecity. :at %heaaadrin
I::t working eigaataatti..vn for each par
ada v. ill hi' alppointeit .and all olficer,.
'itie'd. 44 rashcla rici and parish Is
trged to mend five deleegate, 'Tlhe
Itroht , bIt' attetndatic in is elatitn ''tr to
be froma two to ihree thousand
(i;tvernior Pleasant w ill iiiattlnd Ilhe
q'0IIveualiota on I he' 5ath and A iiie topea11k
ins on godci roadns will toucwlh 11101 Ia"
.'inatltaatiotai ji eendia m tsi Ire'iade nt
I' M Wilner willt go tgjo u allah a large
party from Ne·w O)rlrana, anad AI.'aa
eandrl,. Rat' in Itofige, I)onialdeonvaille,
Iaki' f'harle'. Lafayet te, ('rowlele', Now
Iberia. Morgan Pity. Fraanklin. Mooru '.
Nettrarla.',. M indon. I tona.nr. a m i th.
loeatliltes tar repjorte'd toa h114 teii yIV
arparluag to ro tad large' d8l..gat I iona atei
IIt'' it re apatart aeetin lo g a hr. sepiort's
iite'atieo n to Iatke' eare' oat the' *40 1414
4t; Ite I"a ir 1411 ht the= I'egrw ' (if
,.nae',aedao. fit iii viher 7 heat had ia fta ir.
01e' .. .'IT. t ta ~eo geoted rodtel fte't ocria 'a
w ho ii.- te' t a ein otours *aioua.'i tor go. id
road,.
tf souar iortirl manke' you dreary keep
themt to yourself, anad do not Impo,'e
them'i upon bettaor atn4a iinm'r p'iples'
Robert Louia Steveenaran
NATIONAL FARM AND LIVE
STOCK SHOW.
What with Shrevleport ready to give
the, Sttae Pair $4u.0,) (Ateldmenntt 7)
and p;i' off her debt and lit'he business
nwn of New Orleans donating $82.(N)
i (nush for premiums angd prIzsa for
thi Niatlontl Fearml and I~i.e Stock
i ho%, the corulntry parishes are reap.
ing a tenelfit that will be felt from one
orln of the stale to the other, not
metre,,l ;it I the money the farmers and
IIre telx kI raisera will take home from
N(.w O)ri.ans. but in the Improvemenlt
in the hreed and -alue of cattle, hbores
:and h-oe. pnultry and other products
of tithe ftrmn
The, N- tirle.arni show ill come
off Nove nrler it 19 and entries from
all part,; of the state forelhadlow the
kee-est l* omrn tll|lton |to colled't as m·uch
,f the $.,n.0t. aus each inldleidel al ex
chttor (ai take away with him The
% ,'- iiA-t tn A1ssociatoof 'e( mercei
Ihtroulh tIe Merchants and Manufae.
turers lture'aee. il taking a leading part
itn tihe ,'lelet anl is preparing to re
e' Lis maIel)y of their country friends
duringlt thue lproareas of the show
'lrhe Washington Star published in
W'.eaingto|, II ('C says that for the
ersel tinee' in hlntory. organised labor is
trying to awing a preldential election.
Prelsident (lotlnpers of the American
F'i'desratietl of alAbor and a number of
lothetr labor leaders arce now on the
ittertl, urging the election of Wilson.
N I Messlenger, who writes for sev
etral large Reputblican newspapers In
the eaest. and who is now touring the
elenetry. a' that titughe Is slilpping
in the we'rt. and that states like Ne.
btr:~ikn. (Oregoln. Wyoming, idaho and
Wt'.rhirefgtonl whic'h were in Htughes
tlnmiutn i ,eral weeks mago. are' now
olinost cire' to g for 'res'idelnt Wilsoen.
Th" sPwiingt I toward Wilaon thlroulgh
tout th'e country Assumption Plioneer.
Manv; Eng:llthpien bliseve Alm'rican
(oi c'%itenll)ltlit as p;arty to) agreement of
,orel Ipowere to safeluard the rights
,f ,ltielgiun, but this is ehrroneotsl yet
upon it in based most of the II feeling
since the United States failed to enter
the air The ,'sniled States never
alsned tiel, leilsea treaty, was no
party to It
THE FINEST TREAT THE YEAR AFFORDS
A VISIT TO THAT GREAT STATE INSTITUTION AND EXPOSITIONAL
WONDER, WHERE EVERYBODY SOON WILL BE GOING
Louisiana State Fair
Shreveport, Nov. Ist to 6th, 1916
You'll Want You'll Want
To see: Special Service-Speial Low Round Trip Rate To Sees:
--the vast displays of agrlcultu. Vi th D BORN L -the thrilling aeroplane fights
ral products gathered from 25 the EDENBORN LINE L R. & . by i Iyd Thompon, riay
InisCana parishoe Nov. 3, and Sunday. Nov, 5
-the wonderful exhibits in the --the sensational a u t o ob i le
educnational, art,domestic, pure races by the foremo(t speed
food, textile, machinery and a demons of the world on the
other departments first and fifth day of the Fair
--the dairy farming, tractor and -the two big football games on
silo demonstrations On the Following Trains: ht,,l antd College Da, Sve .at
the thousands of head of fine rda. November 4th
poultry, cattle, horses, swine -the lpectacular fireworks (di
-the Better Babies Show and Special Daylight Train Spacial Pullman Train Regular Train play and the "Fall of Pompeii
Juvenile Congress of all the each nTviu'gs Warld Fmous Rus
Nation ,ian lHand; beautiful soloists;
-the many other departments Leaves Bayou Sara 11:09 a. m.,; Leaves Bayou Sara 7:15 p. m., Leaves Bayou Sara 9:08 p. m., exceptionally fine vaudeville
which makes this year's Louis. Friday. Nov. 8rd Friday, Nov. 3rd Friday, Nov. 3rd attractions and other features
iana State Fair an unqualified of entertainment too numerous
serlaea Fr Arrives Shreveport 7:15 p. m., Arrives Shreveport 7:00 a. m., Arrives Shreveport 7:30 a. m., to mention
Friday, Nev. 3rd Saturday, Nov. 4 Saturday, Nov. 4
Ask Your Local Agent For Information Concerning Other Trains, and
Make Your Plans Now To 0o!
A n
