t
TELEGRAPH YOUR BUNDLE ORDERS! MENACE FIRING LINE ATTENTION!
This is one of the greatest political issues of a patriotic paper ever pub
lished. We will honor telegraph orders when sent by members of record on our
firing line. Do not send lists to be addjessed, IT'S TOO LATE. Price of
bundles, 200 copies, $1.00; 500 copies, $2.25; 1000 copies, $4.50. Order by
wire. Sow down your district. Save the day for America!
This It Number 289
NACE
NMr 4, ltt
$X - iinii By
iHE M
8 -.....h
TRAIL OF THE MPEM I TIE HRESENT CAMPAIGN
m
0 the uninitiated the present
ritrij'tin presents rone lut
the usual com pic I questions.
a littje more complex per
kaps, than 10 come former cam
paigns but on the mhole, to the on
informed, this it merely one of those
pot me guessing campaign; how
ever to the students of Roman activ
ity in American politic thi cam
paign proi-cuta all the phaso of
vast nation-wide movement fraught
with jolitical fAcry, an J einUtcr
JfMgns.
Shifting and twining with the
ability of the all-wise serpent. Homo
i writhing for release from the in
dictment foreshadowed in the Lind
bergh Ilcsolution. Fully realizing
die grawty of the situation, and
Dialing as ever to escape an un
masking which would seriously hin
der the campaign to make America
Human Catholic, the Hierarchy is at
tempting to so cover up its present
and former tracks and to so man
ipulate its political activity as. to
ronfuM? and deceive the unwary.
And in this attempted "covering
up," we find presumptive evidence
cf guilt, for, if innocent of the
charges set forth in the Resolution,
would not auch innocence be accom
panied by a demand from Homo
herself for an investigation, instead
of the present frantic effort to elim
inate the footprints of the Jesuit
that the investigation may be
auile ?
Hut Rome has no desire to place
her despotic, monarchist and un-
Amrruan practices before th
Kan blight of democracy. Her un
wil!ingnca is evidenced by present
attiwtics whiih incluJe smooth
trades, not unmarked by withdraw
als here and there, and a diversity
of method and ouric, (none the
Icn single in purpose bcaue of
their many angle), slowly showing
the cunning of Jesuitical tartiri a
never before and all ele but the
skillful campaign for olitical con
trol bring Oi rev ted by the hidden
hand is being sacrifu-fd that an un
suspecting public may le lulled into
tranquil slumber.
It is a well known fact that when
mention is made of Home's political
aspirations that her chief and al
most her only defensive retort is
that the "children of the ihunh
arc t le found in all parties. IJi
cent Uttcraiues of the p.ipa! press
claim that this is true today "more
than ever before."
We would alter that assertion
and sav that "the children of the
church" are more in evidence in all
political part ion, but that their at
tempts to co speak and n t as to
convince the world that the hier
archy is riot behind a concerted po
litical move which it is attempting
to further through then? "ihildren."
is not auJliHcnt in itself, for it is
merely another caw wherein actual
facts and practice belie the pretense.
In the present status of nlTairs.
in this crins. so unfortunate for
Rome in that it has occurred at a
time when she is planning more
extensive action than ever before
the election of a president sub
servient to her interests, though de
sirable, ig not absolutely necessary
The Roman Catholic Political Machine Making Desperate Attempt l0itl!.rrrf "CiEi
boniroi ine aenaie ana tnirencn rapai rower in the House Cali
fornia, Minnesota, Arizona, North Dakota Are Typical Examples
of Jesuit Tactics-Patriots' Duty in the Present Crisis
to the furtherance of her political a careful, as the man who votes in j and drts working for him in perfect
aggression if a congress and Knate, the states from whit.li the examples hinnoi'v: Cnihnlun and Anti-Cat It
particularly a senate, which will do are takei,: ; too." This remark fiom one
her bidding can be elettcd : and for ru'ronvti .i j of Rome's own hil.tren kl.nui tl,t i
that matter, all elre can be 1M ratlon canJid.t.-a foe T S Senate- ''"'' desired to Inrl.fy ""n nuns and fiie priest who reg-
sight of if she can obtain a inanr- Joht.so'n Us dm-in? I... Vr,,,ir mll"'f Minnrf.ta by having ai i,cr':1 Tuc-.n on iM-bcr ir.ili
y in Uth 'w.t who will ret r Uovernor btrn nc4d.nr.lv kind t I dependable csnd.date cm U.ih il,e !;'" I-1 ion t. vote s-.1i.lly
tor the investigation. THAT IX-1 Rome's amiranL f.,r .nn..i,.iiirlI,,0,",'' n-I republican ti ket. ,,,r Henry .Mr. Mhliry, Aiur-t s
meiit, be bt met bis VtrW
fuife fiHharriii$ to a tnnn o
ron Ik tt pf briny a "'!
liUft." Henry's gallantry wiU nt
W ill t.lC ladl. S OlO lVl0 .f llM
IfHord on woman suffrage que.
tion, and it i equnllv certain tbat
otlier parts of bis reiord are equally j
as obnoxious t many of Ariin.i'
hft nli:tn. thnugtt tlio twentr-!
VKSTIGATION MEANS THK.prt ferene. and it is utter f.dlv t- "ut u"n "Pr' " t,,e J,,n "r '.. -r.-r. ...n w....
ltVrtA.ttn m m.mih L.I' l -t a a f niU il si lifilttli-n Id I tfU .kill ;... ih..rJill reienc tlie sulTra"' of t he noo-
L-vmrctientrvfirrcnAwllit could be di-,.le.si. n l.W h?hly arouo4 t the H.t.cal f..k- l'' of Arizona who do not . .
.....-. jii. o i Li, i i-nu.u .. r i in i i . irv bein l.ri.ti.i'.l m,.t I 'alder. 1 l'rir I It hem how . t.,le. ie
TUB AMKRICAN" PKOPLK IF J l J U S II urlv "ImH a 1 Kni2.ta of Co. .. and others of
PROCKKP WITH HKR IWDKR- figure ,n the attempt to l.'oinanie dexelopinj a Mrengtl. ' "J but it is tune f..r
mvivr i-vni'tiAcmTii. i. T!,. ,t i.. ...i. that bids fair to carrv him far r.at ?o,h w.ple of Ar.ona to retire
I
I
and rX-AMKRICAX AUGRl-S-S10X.
The president has the vetoing and
nominating oucr, n secondary mat
ter since tlie house and senate have
the privilege of ratifying and re.
jecting nnd of passing otor vetoes.
noHodlcc
fornia. hut Alaska, franklv endorse
mg ration, whxli a!o clrsrlv in.
dicates that Rome would not Ir
difilfaffd nith him, lt von grap
the situation? Rome is fortified
for the emergency i in loth
jartir ami in f&i.t tntr ran rent un
the oar unless a dark horse in the
and in the light of this fact it i? ! third party candidate should u
not difllcult to understand the un
preeeibntecl trading duplicity and
deceptive tactics l-ing employed.
lVxf is not lacking that Rome
is taking and has taken precautions
to fortify herself in such an emer
gency. I.ack of space forbids an
extended resume of the situation,
but wc give you here a few in
stances that hould put etcry fa
triolie voter upon his guard, wheth
er the cases mentioned afTott bis
state or not. There is doubtless
some place in the political arena of
your 6tatc where you muet be just
vilop un-epectcd strength
Another incident of double deal
in?, MIN"Nf:S()TA-.rtrrr an.l
Kfllojf, candidates for 1. S. Sen
ate; Fowler, a true son of the
church, is actively in training with
the Tumulty-Lynch K aggrega
tion and cannot iiplrnmg to
Rome. Kellogg, bis oprwinciit, lias
in the prcson of ( has. M. M(m,s. an
ardent Knight of Columbus, n very
able politic at ' igler who boastfully
asserted after the primary, "Wby,
we knew Kellogg was bound to re
cti ve the noininalion. He had wct
ttie i.i.'tnlicr of vote rcpnreil.
Knoiigh for double dealing.
There are other instances when in
Rome ha not Uui so f..t(i.nate n
to have ROTH eundidates entirely
to her liking, and; in fact, there
are a great many candidate iijmw
ing lit r favorite oiis, who are nu
ing her much un-rct.
Here is a ra-e where Ruiiie thinks
sue .-as a senaior in i ie i.cm strong ,.11(0 Mii.,Cii ,,, r,.Iv
cnoia'ii ut noun an o i position, i,rf.n..!.t,.
this man In private life. Rome is
certain be will lw rlii tsl, but pa-tri-t
have an opjMirtmiity to shw
lis-r that the day of fjl' prophet
has not pa-.od foreter. S( HA ITI!
ASIin.'ST AND YOTK 1R
KIIM'.KV.
Another. NORTH HAKOTA
Juln Hiirlf, taudidate fur 1". S.
Snate. at the present time trean-
urer oi me i i.itiM Mates, a man
ARIZONA. . .ts,rs. ra!lv
known as -Onr Henry" rn.i.o.)
at tarions times us liiTnhei-j.uk.
cowboy, el. rk, i a -bier, rejiorter, hol
carrier and latvyer. A fain- sforv
has it that Henry will be tiie fi r-l
Catholic picsidint of the Ciiijed
States, a rumor said to ,ne bien
started at his own fireside.
It has (hveb.jil thi.t Henry is
having a hard tin feting the
woman suffrage vote of Arizona and
lipoii to further her in-
terets in nss miizle legislation.
Indian and sectarian s 1hm appro
priations etc. Hating suceetfb'd in
scooping .lo0,:,7.i;:j out of our
trenMiry for her setariaii i i.st it u
tions, with her bands already in
the trea.-ury up to the illows. by the
ile tion of muIi men its Ruike and
ethers too numerous to mention she
hopn to thrust them in to the
shoulders and to succeed in not only
evading the congressional iueti-
gstion. but to further hamper tht
patriot i prrs by un-American and
unciuo rati. methnals. Patrioti
of North I'akota should remcmhei
that llutke admirably etprrsxsl tht
sentiments of Rome in an arti.le of
his whi h appeared a short time ago
in Cardinal o'Connell's official or
pn. Tlr .'i'oi 'i'V. 'n which
li assail.".! the iatriotic pres in
such a way a to leave no doubt that
he meant Tiir Mfnut. He is
an extremely .Unjrrous man, be
cause of the f t that be has repub
licans and il.-mo. rats alike working
fr hi. -lctiit whiih. in adlition
to other smooth Jcsiiiti.al practices
Ix-iiij employed, makes it impera
live for the patriotic voter to unite
o!iillv for M Cumber if theT are
. defeat this Iota! son of the
ihurih. To win it will U n-eary
to work night and day until elec
tion has pasH'). l-ae no stone un
turned for a Mihdly combined vote,
this is tour only rhan.-e of defeat
itZ this smooth and adroit -ohti-i
ian.
We could gt on and on and con
sume the entire four pages of this
piier with instances similar to the
foregoin-r. but we t ru-t that this is
suuVient to piti- ton n wholesome
insight into Rome's present aetitity
and to show ton fiat she has made
a stronger cfTort than ever before to
capture the wnate. A glatut1 at the
taliulation in No. 27 is sullicient
to conviuiv ton that she has reliable
representation on the congresional
tickets cither in the persona of Ro
manists i-r men whom fhc au do
enil uon. This should serve as a
warning and enable yon to vote
more inti lligently. Cast your bal
lot with the utmost caution, if you
would pretcnt Rome from electing
a senate or a conirn-ss that will tabla
the Lindbergh Resolution.
PRISON POPULATION AND ROMAN
CATHOLIC RELIGIOUS (?) TRAINING
Further Object Leuons la the Fruits of Parochial Schoolinf-Penal
Statistics From Over Twenty-ons States Show That Forty-seven
- Per Cent of Criminals Are Roman Catholic Who Represent
But Fifteen Per Cent of the Total Population
man Catholic training and paroch
ial education in our midst. The
criminal lawlessness inaugurated bv
the Molly Magoircs in Pennsylvania
fifty years ago and continued
throughout the nation by the
Knights of Columbus and the mem
bers of the Ancient Order f Hi
bernians during recent vears: the
infamous Roman Cathofic boycott,
one of the evil weapons of despot
ism entirely foreign to the genius
of free government and the nation
wide eTort to secure a complete
press gag or muzzle in order to pre
vent all discussion of Rome's war on
our FEDERAL CONSTITUTION
aud the safeguards and bulwarks of
frr institution arc alike illustra
tions of Rome's inherent antag
onism to our fundamental democ
racy, and the deadly menace of the
Roman Catholic political machine
to the civilization inaugurated bv
the Protestant Reformation anil
furthered m markedly by our lib
eral democracy.
The following has been prepared
expressly for The Mk.nace bv a
careful thinker of the east, and com
plemcnts the series of first page
editorials we arc publishing from
week to week dealing with Rome as
a menace to democracy's progress
and advancing civilization.
ERE are aomo further facta
of a fundamental nature
showing from statistical data
from twenty-one states scat
tered from ocean to ocean and from
the Lakes to the Gulf, that Roman
Catholics furnish 47.9 per cent of
the criminals in our penal institu
tions. The Roman Catholic church's es
timate for 101C gives the Roman
Catholic population as 16.000.noo
and total population as 102.007,712.
That is to say the Roman Catholics
claim 15.G of the population.
The prison data therefore indi
cates that Rome has very nearly five
limes as many criminals per capita
in our penal institutions as the com
bined Protestant, Hebrew, pagan
and infidel population.
The population representing the
product oi our splendid non-sec
tarian free schoola which Rome de
nounce as "God-less" and as "gates
of hell," has about five times less
criminals to its credit than the Ro
man Catholic religious training
about whoso excellence the Roman
hierarchy makes suck extravagant
una unoiiy baseieM claims.
The prison statistics sucrest con
"derations of grave importance to
lax payers. II the nation should
become wholly Roman Catholic and
the present rate of criminality were
to continue, the public expenditures
for jsils, penitentiaries, law courts,
and the machinery of justice would
be about five times as much as a
con-Catholic state would require.
This economic aspect, however,
inks into insignificance before the
moral damage, the irreparable, spir
itual loss and national decay in
moral fiber that obtain under Ro
man Catholic training not only as
illustrated in our prison population
and elsewhere in America, but In
Jfexico, Spain, and indeed the
world over in proportion as the Ro
man Catholic system has become
dominant " '
Furthermore, we must not lose
sight of the facts that the appalling
result of Roman Catholic training
seen in our prison population is but
During the latter ptrt cf the year
Mr. Frankha Steiner, of New York,
mailed about aeventy-flv letters to the
wwHens of tht penitentiaries of the
t'nitcd States and Canada, aiking about
Ui religious affiliation of th prisoners.
Mixtr-flve answers wer received, of which
fortr-three were in the shapo of the latest
reports of the institutions addressed.
Twenty-one contained data showing the
number of Romanist prisoner in various
penal institutions of continental United
States. The fipiree refer to the number
of Roman Catholio Driaoaera in the
twenty-one institutions on It. and are not
to be rnmrded as showing the total Bum
ber of Romaa Catholic criminals ia the
whole country.
The table civen ia this article recapitu
lates the information.
Column 1, S, and 3 are self-explana-
torr. Column 4 shows the number both
of those whoae religion was unknown and
of those who held some reliaioue belief
but were wot at the time identified with
any ehurrh. These are not to be con
I Prntritnnta, Romanists, cr Tsgans as
well as lnfi.il. ThfiKe known to be un
believcre are included in column 3.
Column S bowf tlie total number of
prisoners ia the restitutions from which
the reports were received and column 6
howi the proportion of Rimaa Catholic
prisoners to all the prisoners.
Thus, of 63,772 prisoners In the jails.
penitentiaries and worVhotisrs of SI
states, il.'U, or 47.9 r cent sic Ro
man Catholics. This represents the irre
ducible sninrtnum. All raset in whih
there was doubt as to the prisoner 'i re
liclon wit aMigM-J to tlie "unknonn"
Column. Kery ore nf the SI.S13 (irioo
ers ha sonounred h.raoelf as a RomanM.
Ia addition tu these there aie undoubt-
'e.llv n.tnr in Cbluiiin 4 who are Roman
! Chtholirs.
A p'am-e t the table hos thst Mi
simppi Las the lowejt peri-t nt of Ro
manist prisoners, while Rkode l'Und has
ith biggi-st. AUo, Mississippi t.k the
1 li'pheM iiiinilcr of i wirier who'o re
. iivion is imknnwn while Rhode 1s'j.i. l l.as
! none at all. Roughly, the. percent of Ro-
An Appeal to Voters of Louisiana
THE COOPERATIVE PRESIDENTS CLUB of New Orleans, organized for the purpose
of promoting the welfare of the.children attending the PUBLIC SCHOOLS of this city, earn
estly request you to vote against the Amendment to the Constitution, proposed, which will
be printed on the official ballot ai follows:
"For the proposed amendment to the Constitution of the state of Louisi.na providing
for the funding of certain debts of the city of New Orleans and of the Boar a of Directors
of the Public Schools, Parish of Orleans." '
You are asked to vote "AGAINST" this proposed amendment for the following rea
sons: 1 Section 17 of laid amendment (knowta as "$9,000,000 Bond Issue") sets aside only 3i2
mills of the city's taxes (22 mills) for publie ichools, and EXPRESSLY PROHIBITS THE
CITY from giving any more of its funds for' school purposes.
2 This apportionment is $179,000 short; of expenditure for public schoola in 1914-1915
session. - I
3 This Inevitable shortage under provision! of proposed law being known to its framers,
Section 18 authorising the. school board to levy a special school tax of 2 mills, subject to vote
of property-holders, was added; thus laying the burden of the schools on the taxpayers.
4 Investigation warrants us in stating that taxpayers, so heavily taxed now, will vote
no further increase, therefore, if the amendment passes, our schools will be curtailed and
crippled.
We asked for mil more of the taxes and $100,000 of each million of bonds sold, for a
building fund, but were refused. The city's contribution, averaging $206,000 annually for
school buildings, etc., has been diverted as security to Guarantee Bond Issue, releasing these
funds for other city departments; leaving the schools alone the burden-bearer.
PLEASE BEAR IN MIND, that all the other city departments were provided for amply,
and the PUBLIC SCHOOL IS THE ONLY DEPARTMENT 'UNPROVIDED FOR, save in
part, and whose future progress depends on the hazard of a SELF-VOTED taxation!
MEN OF LOUISIANA, we appeal to you in the came of the children who will be the fu
ture citizens of your state (the most illiterate state in the Union), to help us defeat this amend,
ment.
Voters of Louisiana, Attention!
STARTLING DATA RELATING TO
ROMAN CATHOLICISM AND CRIME
Almost Five Times as Many Convicts Per Capita Than is Found in Com
bined Protestant, Hebrew, Pagan and Infidel Population-Popular
Non-Sectarian Education Lessens Economic Burden by Promot
ing Sound Morality and Strengthening Moral Fibre of Nation
man Catholic inrrr.r as the niimlwr cf
unknowns ilprrrnw. Kmir stairs, I'rnn
fylvknia, Nw llantpliiri, uinirt-tu-iu
ami Rhoile lilan-l havo no iluittitful
The trligion of rvrry priwnrr i ;'vrn
The priMinrrt of thru Matr ro S6.9
per rent Roman Catholic, while- the re
maining svrnteen vtaten with 3.S.17
riuncis of unknot n faith, shuw only
4 7 er rent Roman Catholic. It is like
ly then, that if the numlior of unknowns
were smaller, the numWr nf Roman Cath
olit prisoners wouM increase, with a eor
repon1inf( increase in the jieri-cutagc of
Roman Catholic prisoners.
throughout the nation for jails, law
rourtu, ami police, wnuM be nearly Bra
tunc, what a non-Cuthulic statu kjuIJ
ueel.
Twenty five eivcnt of Romanists, with
(he rate of criminality now prevailing
among them, WouM fiirniftti 02.7 percent
of the criminal of the country. Thia
estimate ia well lorne out hy the words
of a hi.h representative of" the church
itself, no less a figure than Judge Cor.
ncliua T. Collin, of the New York City
Childrrn'a Court, who ai in St. Bor
mmeo rhun-b, New York City, last
inter: "In the Children a Court, 143,-
Kantor f Rm
Stat
it Calhslk
Romanist
Mlulaalppl ?
Illinois . ?l
lo 4
Indiana ... ut
Miuouri . . 411
Minnranta . . 17.1
Ntw Ynrk CS.I.'a
California "AS
1 Orcna . . "1
kanvat . , 3IS
Omra-ia , si
Ariaona , ?t
Wlsrnnain 2TS
Washington . . .... 119
North lakota .... s
South Dakota I0
j Idaho ti
I Pennsylvania, 114
IKw Hampshire , ... IV2
Conrw-tk-ut . ..... 341
Ft hod Ulaad 4ti
Totals 31.(11
Prisonfrs In Jail aaa1 PmittatiarW af Iks l'alt4 fltatas
rrisoiwr Prrrvnt ol Romanlat.
Non-Konianisl Unknown Totml to total oris.
ST! TIS I.70S t.l
' J.!U SI. 4
I 4:i S74 l.T
4 t:t lis
1.4S 1. 1 97 1J.T
' t4 i.:-' ss.i
Jl.tH 4S.ICS S4S
?! I.SST S.S
ITI l:ll 171 S
I'it MO 1.141 S7.1
IIS 4il ?I.S
lot 70 4IS tS 4
SSI S TIS SS
SSI SO Sit Si.S
lot st ;4 Its
I7A 2i Jl 14 t
! S I7i III
:7 o s?i si.s
101 O VOI MS
?S4 7 ST.l
1 0 4.-I 7S.S
J0.i:j 1.S37 St.773 47.S
one of the manj evil aspccU of Uo- mdtrei nabeUcrtrs, kowtrer. Tay ssay
Voters of Louisiana, tte appeal to you fui
the honor of your state and for the childrvy
ia your homes and those who arc yet unbora
to vote against the proposed amendment re
ferred to above. Work as you have never
worked before to defeat. this iniquitous at
tempt to strike a deadly blow to the rnt
popular institution in Louisiana.
It has been one of the ehief (rlories of pur
republic that through our splendid free school
system, we have from generation to genera
tion decreed a priceless heritage to the young,
and in proportion as our people have gener
ously or liberally supported this magtiifierjt
system of non-fectarian secular education tie
moral standards of society have been raised,
the percentage of illiteracy has been reduced,
the young have been taught robust mora!i'.r
and the importance of exercising their Cod
given reason, and they have been equipped to
successfully compete in the struggle for ma
terial livelihood while their intellectual hori
zon has been broadened and their grasp of
the moral verities has been markedly
strengthened.
Our system of public education has done
more than anything else to promote intellect
ual hospitality, and discourage religious prej
udice, bigotry, and intolerance which mark all
landa where the blight of a union of church
and state prevails. VOTE FOR THE LITTLE
ONES that is important but it is not enough.
Work as you have never worked before to
arouse every person within the scope of your
influence to vote and to work against this in
famous proposed amendment.
(B. O. FLOWER, Chairman Editorial Board..
The papist population nf the country
at large has lieen ratimatr.l liy several
authorities during the past lite year. Of
these the mot worthy of consideration
seem to he that made by Mr. SSteiner in
1910, the census made'hy the Federal
Council of the Churches of Christ in
America, and the estimato made ly the
Roman rhitrch authorities in the current
1 year. These estimates are as follows:
1
1 0(10 rases are brought up every retX
I Sixty percent of these are Catholic chil-
' I. . , 1 1 .1 a
iiii-d, ou jrwinii inn wiv rt-inainurr ok
all other faith. And this, despite the
fact that one fourth of the population of
thia city is Catholic. Sutv five percent
; of the ly in the reformatories are
Catholics." Similar statements by Car
I dinal Karley and Monsignor Wall have
j aroused intense feeling among both the
Roma Catholics Total Population
franklin Stsinw. ISIS
12.2I3.44S S1.I77.S7
Chunk Cansua, ISIS
I4.0C0.00S SS.7SIJ7S
Roman Catholic Churrh Estimate. ISIS
lt.000.OM 102.017.312
rrrnt of Roauniata
11.1
14.1
lit
Thus in the institution of It state
scattered well throughout the nation,
from California to New Hampshire and
from ' Louisiana to North Dakota, the
Roman Catholics, numbering at the most
generous estimate but 1.V6 percent of the
total population, furnish 47.0 percent of
the rriminnla of the country, or very
j nearly five times as many per capita as,
ine eomiiineo: iToxcsiania, dews, 1 ag-ans
and Infidel. That 1. if the nation were
to become wholly Roman Catholic an-l
the present rate of papist criminality
were to continue, the expenditure
clergr and the more intelligent laity.
Priii Crumley, chaplain of the Illinois
state penitentiary, attempt to minirode
the number of Romanist eiiminala by the
assertion that they are not all "practical
Catholics." that is that they Uo not all
"make their Kter duty." By eliminat
ing nil who fail to make this yearly re
port at the confession box, Crumley soe
eeeJa ia reducing the prison population
of 530 Korean Catholic criminals to S30.
(Continued on Tage 3, Column 4)
