rrn
n
VOL. XX NO. 198.
BARRE, VERMONT, - SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
LITTLE CHANGE
ON ANY FRONT
Heavy Fighting Continues in
Galicia and on the Ru
manian Frontier
ANGLO-FRENCH FAIL
IN THEIR ATTACKS
Rumanians Continue to Ad
vance in the Jiul
Valley
Heavy fighting continues on the battle
fields of Galicia and along the Ruma
nian frontier without pronounced gains
for either side. In northern France the
night was quiet along the French front
Berlin reports that French and British
attacks during the day yesterday in the
Gueudecourt, Lcsboeufs and Courcelette
sectors, north of the Somme, were re
pulsed.
Austro-Oerman forces have made I
little additional gain in their campaign
against Rumania. Berlin announces the
recapture of a position southwest of Tre
deal, which the Rumanians had taken on
November 2 but concedes the occupation
by Rumanian troops of Rosea height,
southeast of Altschanze.
Petrogrnd reports the advance of Ru
manians in the .nil valley. On the Kus
sian front the Teutonic armies under
rince Leopold of Bavaria have taken
some little additional ground from the
Russians on the Naraynvka, southeast ot
Lemberg, in Galicia, Berlin announces.
The raiders were fruitlessly shelled by
four British cruisers while they were re
turning. The official statement reads:
"On the night of Nov. 1-2, small Ger
man naval vessels advanced from points
of support on the coast of Flanders
against the trade routes between the
Thames and Holland. They stopped and
searched several steamers and brought
two of them, which were suspicious, into
port. A third steamer which was ordered
to follow has not yet arrived.
"As thev were returning, some of our
torpedo boats were shelled lor a Drier
time without success by tour iintisu
cruisers. Our naval forces an returned
safely."
HUGHES TALKS TARIFF.
BEING FORCED BACK
But Rumanians Are Putting Up a Stub
born B-efense.
London, Xov. 4. Violent fighting con
tinues to mark the Austro-German at
tempts to penetrate the plain of Rumania
south of Kronstadt and Hcrmannstadt
and toward Bucharest. The stiff defense
of the Rumanian..-) is yielding slowly to
the blows of Austro-German artillery and
infantry about Tredeal and Berlin an
nounces further progress south of the
bonier for them.
East of Predeal, however, the Ruma
nians advancing in the Buzeu valley have
driven the invaders lck over the fron
tier in the region of Table Butzi. They
also have taken Mount Sinul and Tatu
rumio, along the Transylvania border
southeast of Kronstadt. South of Her
mannstadt in the region of Rothenthurm
pas the Austro-Germans have extended
their lines and captured an additional 350
prisoners. West of Rothenthurm and in
the Prahova valley the Rumanians are
liolding their ground.
TWO CIVILIANS
KILLED BY BOMBS
But No Material Damage Was Done in
Italian Town of Vieste By the
Austrian Aviators.
Rome, via Paris, Xov. 4. Three Aus
trian airplanes, says the official state
ment, have dropped bomla on the town
of Vieste in the province of Foggia on the
Adriatic, killing two civilians and wound
ing four but causing no material damage.
3,498 MORE PRISONERS
Captured by Italians in Drive Toward
Trieste.
Rome, via London, Nov. 4. In the zone
from liorizin to the Adriatic sea the Ital
ians have captured additional positions
of vantage from the Austrians and tak
en 3.4!)S more prisoners and guns, ma
chine guns and quantities of arms and of
ammunition, according to official com
munication issued yesterday.
The communication says:
"Julian front: From Gorizia to the sea
heavy fighting, which resulted in further
successes along the northern brow of the
Cargo plateau, continued yesterday. Here
the troops of the 11th army corps, who
repulsed violent counter attacks during
the night, took strong defenses on differ
ent ground east of Veliki Kribach and
Mount Pecinka.
"After taking several trenches and
clearing the enemy out of woods and
caves, the 4th and 4."th divisions, in spite
of an intense artillery fire and counter
attack. held the line running from
Mount Faite over the heights of point
31!) to point 220 on the Oppachiasella
Castagnva road, 700 metres west of the
latter.
"On the remainder of the front east of
Gorizia and from Hubilog to the sea, all
the positions gained by our troops Nov.
1. have been maintained, notwithstand
ing incessant attacks, which were sup
ported by concentrated artillery fire.
"During the day we took 3,498 prison
ers, including llfi officers, among them a
brigade commander, a regimental com-
msniier and three field ol Moors. I wo
mountain guns, numerous machine guns
and large quantities of arm and ammu
nition and war material of all kinds also
fell into our hands.
"During a hostile air raid the jight of
Nov. 1-2 over the lower Izonso our guns
brought down hydroplane L-75. The offi
cer and pilot of the machine were killed."
H Attacks the Democratic Theory of
Tariff for Revenue Only.
Hudson, N. Y., Nov. 4. In his speech
here yesterday Charles Evans Hughes
made the tariff liU chief theme and as
sailed the Democratic party for its fail
ure to reduce the high cost of living.
I think they were just as eloquent m
promises four years ago as they are to
day," Mr. Hughes said. "As I look back
to the statements that were made at
that timo I cannot see how anyone could
have said anything more eloquently,
more persuasively than was said st that
time with respect to what was going to
be done for American labor and Amer
ican business. ou would nave tnougnt
at that time that the sun of promise
had just begun to shine upon a benighted
world and that they were going to have
an entirely new condition, in which labor
would profit to the utmost and American
business would get an extraordinary in
centive. "They told us, for example, that there
was the high cost of living. Well, we all
knew that; we had very intimate knowl
edge of that fact; but what was still
more to the point they told us that they
were going to reduce it and that if we
would only put them in power they
would show us how the high cost of liv
ing was going to come down. Well,
through a division in our ranks which I
an? glad to say has been happily healed,
they had a chance to show what they
could do with the high cost of living.
That robust companion, however, has
become more and more robust, and seems
to thrive on a Democratic administra
tion. And it is mounting higher and
higher and taller and taller, and when
we consider this promise in relation to
present promises we wonder whether
thev are going to do anv better with re
spect to the future than they did in these
recent years with respect to this highly
important matter.
"While thev did not reduce the cost of
living, thev were eminently successful in
reducing the chances of making a living.
They did not promise that ; they prom
ised quite the contrary; they had a won
derful programme; they were going to
reduce the cost of living; they were go
ing to provide for the expenses of the
government through their tariff system;
they were going to increase the oppor
tunities for business, and they were go
ing to have American enterprise, as they
said, take on a new size and speed, and
have opportunities for American labor
multiplied.
' "Well, they put their principle in force.
They had not had a chance to do it for a
great many years. They proceeded to do
it, with very extraordinary results. In
the first place, they had a tariff for rev
enue only, but it was a tariff that did
not produce revenue. We had a great
falling off in revenue through a tariff for
revenue, while we had a great lncreae
of imports, and so in time of peace,
which now they emphasize, forgetting
the little wars we have hal in .Mexico
they had to pass what is called a war
revenue bill to take care of the deficit
which was the result of their fiscal pol
icy.
"Then they said thev were going to
have American enterprise take on a new
size and speed, and it did, a much re
duced size and a much slower speed. The
opportunities of labor vanished or were
greatly reduced, and we had a very ex
traordinary condition in this country."
FOUGHT OFF
SUBMARINE
French Liner Doukkala Had
Long Encounter with
. War Vessel
JAILED HIMSELF
SEVEN SHELLS FIRED
AT 6,000-YD. RANGE
After Three-Quarters of an
Hour Struggle Liner
Made Escape
Toulon, via London, Nov. 4. The
French liner Doukkala reports an attack
upon her by a submarine, which she beat
off after a tight busting three-quarters of
an hour, conducted at a range of 6,000
yards. The submarine is said to have
fired seven shells.
CLAIM BRITISH
BROKE SEA LAW
300 ARE LOST
IN COLLISION
After Eluding Montpelier Deputy Sheriff
in Burlington.
Burlington, Nov, 4. Willis Joley of
Moretown, who, with Adolph Malnati,
was being taken from the Washington
county jail in Montpelier to the house of
correction, put over what is probably one
of the meanest tricks which could
played upon an officer yesterday morning,
when he lost his keeper completely and
then, while he was being sought in this
city, took the tram to Rutland and ar
rived at the house of correction iiist
about four hours before Deputy Sheriff
Fred Benoit, who was supposed to have THP rTlVXTTTAf A T A
delivered him tin. arrived with his re- """'""v
maining prisoner. It Is reported Foley AND RETRIEVER
thought it a joke, but It la very doubtful
if Mr. Benoit can see anything funny in
the day's happening,
r n u l.. rnnHAt:.. i i
morning with the two prisoners, both of Company Unable tO btate II
whom he was to have delivered at the
Only One Survivor as Two
Boats Went Down in
Irish Channel
Any Americans Were
Aboard
Patrol Vessel Destroyed German Subma
rine and Then Tried to Sink Row
boat with the Only Sur
vivors. Berlin, via wireless, Nov. 4. The Ger
man admiralty has furnished the Asso
ciated Press correspondent the details of
what i characterized as a second Bara-
long case, in which a British patrol ship,
living the American colors, it is declared,
after destroying the submarine U-41, de-
lberatclv ran down a rowboat with only
two survivors of the undersea boat, in an
endeavor to remove the only witnesses,
and haa since prevented the intended vic
tims, who were almost miraculously
aved, from communicating the news to
their own government.
This incident, according to the admir
alty, occurred Sept. 24. 1013, and has only
just been learned through an invalid
prisoner transferred to Switzerland.
house of correction. He came to this
city from Essex Jurtion on an electric
car and Foley asked for a drink. This
request was, of course, denied. A minute
later Foley said that he was short on col
lar Knttnna anil una n v n nm-munn t n I
go into a local drug store to obtain some. London. Nov. 4. The London & North
That is the last the officer saw of him, western Railway Co.'s steamship Connc
for Foley did not make exit by the same mara from Greemore for 'Holyhead, with
door at which he entered.. Mr. Benoit m steamship
locate his man. Ho took Malnati to the lv"r,cver ln lne lris mgnt
jail for safe keeping arid then started in ttoth vessels sank and as far as known
to make a systematic search for the there is only one survivor from both
missing prwoner I e had to change his ,Mpl u ; fcUtrtd that about 300 peo
nlnn rvf i ah tntr tho I I KK rri Iw 4st Tin la wl I . 1
l 1 I .1 ' 1 J 4. t ..1 ii j II
ailU JlU urnutu w .wjnaU (Hiwn on TIia nnmnuntr wa . ..n.KIa cfarn
NET GAIN OF 65
IN BARRE CHECKLIST
Total Registration for Next, Tuesday's
Election Is 2,122, with Third Ward
Leading By Considerable
Margin.
REACH END OF
CAMPAIGN
Hvv,!S to Make Final Ap-
al To-night After Trav
N eling 28,000 Miles
WILSON'S TOURS
HAVE BEEN SHORTER
the 3:40 train in the afternoon and come
back to search for the other prisoner, n
whether any Americans were aboard the
when a telephone message was received
at local police headquarters stating that
rolev had arrived at the workhouse, told
who he was, that he had missed his
party when he went down to the 11:53
train, had paid his own fare, the officer
having the tickets, and wag ready to be
gin on his time. Mr. Benoit took the
other man down on the 3:40 train.
VERMONT RED CROSS GROWS.
nemara. The ships of that company
seldom carry saloon passengers.
A Lloyds despatch from Belfast savs
the collision occurred off Carlingfordlough
inlet on the Irish coast between the
counties of Down and Louth. The Re
triever was inward bound. A few bodies
have been washed ashore on the county
Down coast.
The marine superintendent of the Lon
don & Northwestern said that as far as
he knew there were only 50 passengers
on the lonnemara, and the crew num
bered 31.
Made Largest Proportionate Increase of
Any Chapter in Country.
Burlington, Nov. 4. Officers w
elected by the Vermont chapter of the In Falmouth Bay Another Steamer Is
STEAMER AFIRE
American Ri-d Cross as follows yester
day afternoon: Chairman, Henry I).
H'dton of Brattleboro; vice-chairman,
Redfield l'roctor of Proctor; secretary,
Jlarry S. iioward of Burlington; treas-
SOON INDEPENDENT
OF U. S. STEEL
HANLY ASSAILS HUGHES.
Says Republican Nominee Is Campaign
ing Solely as "Wrecker."
Columbus, 0., Nov. 4.J. Frank Hanly,
Prohibition candidate for president, and
Ira Landrith, vice-presidential candidate,
yesterday delivered early morning ad
dresses from the State House steps, ap
pealing to men and women on their way
to work to vote the Prohibition ticket.
"America efficient," a term used by
Charles E. Hughes, Hanly said, "is only
phrase which any parrot can be taught
to repeat."
Both the Republican and the Democrat
ic parties, he said, know that "America
efficient" means "America sober."
"The way to make America efficient to
compete in the markets of the world
after the war is to make America sober
by eradicating the alcoholic drink evil,"
said Mr. Hanly. "Both the big parties
know this but they are afraid to pro
claim it."
Mr. Hanly charged that Hughes was
making the campaign solely as "the
wrecker of another man's fortunes."
The Prohibition specal completed its
Ohio campaign yesterday with stops at
London, South Charleston, Xenia and
Eaton, going to Fort Wayne, Ind., last
night. The Prohibitionists will conclude
their campaign in Indiana.
$10,000 IF SHE CAN COOK.
Great Britain Can Go It Alone By Next
March, Declares Dr. Christopher Ad
dison, Parliamentary Secre
tary of Munitions.
London, Nov. 4. By next3fareh Great
Britain will be independent of American
steel, said Dr. Christopher Addison, par
liamentary secretary of munitions, in an
interview discussing the work of the min
istry of munitions. The augmented mu
nitions program for the coming year, Ad
dison said, would require 315,000 addi
tional men workers and 100,000 more
women.
Sunk.
London, Nov. 4. A Lloyds despatch
from ralraouth reports the British steam
er Penus ashore and on fire in Falmouth
bay. The Wilson liner Spero has been
sunk, according to a despatch from Hull
to-dav.
RISE OF PAPER COST.
Hag Been Marked Though Cost of Pro
duction Was Below Three-Year Average.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 4. In a state
ment last night announcing virtual com
pletion of its investigation of newsprint
paper prices, the federal trade commis
sion, declares that during the tlrst hail
of this year, when prices already were
soaring to unprecedented figures, the av
erage cost of producing newsprint paper
in domestic mills was less than $1.05 per
hundred pounds, or below the average
cost in the past three years.
The commission announces that before
issuing its report public hearings will
be conducted and manufacturers, pub
lishers and others interested given an
opportunity to appear. No date is set
for the hearings, but the report is said
to be ready to send to the press in the
near future.
Certain facts developed by the inquiry
are made public now, because most or
the publishers' contracts for paper are
about to expire. Contracti prices rose
this year from less than $2 per hundred
to $3 and $3.50 and on current market
purchases the publishers have paid $7 or
more for paper bought in the same way
prior to January 1 for between $2 and
$3.
urer, H. T. Rutter of Burlington; execu
tive comittce, Frank H. Brooks of St.
Johnsbury, Mrs. George T. Chaffee of
Rutland, M. W. Chittenden of Uurlinu
ton, Mr.. Julius J. Estey of Brattle ro, DEUTSCHLAND WOULD
Mrs. J. B. Estev of Montpelier. Curtis
M. Emery of Newport, Charles S. Forbes BE A WAR VESSEL
ot St. Albans, -Nelson . riW of Isle La
Motte, Mrs. W. S. Phelps of Burlington, - , , ,... . , -
Mrs. Edward C. Smith of St. Albans; If Convoy from United States to Ger-
delegate to the national congress at many By the Submarine U-57,
Washington, D. C, Charles a. forbes of
St. Albans,
An increase in membership in Vermont
from 200 to 1,251, or about (500 per cent
one of the largest wereaaea m the coun
try, was the outstanding feature of the
report of H. S. Howard, secretary of the
Vermont chapter, which was presented
at the afternoon business meeting. This
increase resulted from a vigorous mem
bership campaign, inaugurated when the
call of the National Guard to the border
showed the need of a much larger Amor
ican Red Cross to supplement the army
and navy of the I'nited States. Mr.
Howard also emphasized the work of the Upt Koeni Vessd M Come j.
ermont chapter in furnishing to the -
First regiment of infantry, Vermont Na- Iore no Mms
tional Gmird, 1,000 pair of colored glasses New London, Nov. 4. The Orman ar-
for the protection of the men's eyes and mored submarine U-57, sister ship of the
1,000 suits of cotton pajamas for the re- l"-53, which recently sunk five vessels off
lief of the men when off duty in that hot the New England coast, is expected to
climate to which they were unaccus- act as a convoy for the undersea freight-
tomed. er Dcutsehland on her return trin to Or
Branches of the Vermont chapter were many, according to a statement last night
formed during the year with the follow- hv (apt. Paul Koenig. The Deutseh
ing membership: Burlington 305, Brnt land's commander added: "I would not be
tleboro 164, Rutland 144, Newport 101, surprised if the armored submarine ap
Orleans 101, Montpelier ii. Barton 43, peared off this coast while I am in port.
Washington People
Think.
Washington, D, C., Nov. 4. Reports
that the Dcutsehland will be convoyed
back to Germany by the war submarine
U-57 are not confirmed officially and in
some quarters such a step is regarded as
improbable, aa it has been contended that
a convoyed ship takes on the war-like
character of her convoy and cannot claim
immunities of a peaceful merchantman.
ANOTHER FIGHTER COMING.
A gain of fi, in Barre's voting popula
tion since the September primsries w in
dicated by the compilation of the' check
list, completed this morning at the
of the city clerk. The gain is ascrii.
to a number of citizens who recently re
ceived their final naturalization papers
and to the fact that more than the aver
age number of young men took the free
man's oath because they bad recently at
tained their majority. The total for
the six wards is 2,122, as against an ag
gregate of 2,057 who were eligible to vote
in the September primaries. New names
were added and others stricken off at
two meetings of tie board of civil au
thority, the last of which was held Tues
day evening.
The following represents the polling
strength of each ward: Ward 1. 3H7;
ward 2, 303; ward 3, 4H0; ward 4. 335;
ward 5. 270: wnrtl fi. 1inpW1i.it a r
to be distributed to the various nolliiu? FW Vork' ?sov- 4. Candidates for the
places at once. Sample ballots, a list of : P'dency and prominent campaign or-
the candidates for national, state and,"10" 1,1 ffncral will make their la.-to
county offices, and instructions to voters j Poken appeals for votes to-day. Somo
have been conspicuously posted at nil of ' time "round midnight when the last
the ward meeting places and on Monday i fh'cr na8 ui"J away, the last red fire
the work of erecting the booths will lie ' Jurnel out and the last parader gone
Hanly, Prohibition Candi
date, Has Covered 20,000
Miles Since September
begun, l mess substitutions are neces
sary, the ward officers who were elected
by the board of civil authority just prior
num,-, iiiu nmionai campaign will De vir
tually over.
Hughes ended his political travels yes-
to the March election will serve Tuesday. jl!ray but the last day of the campaign
The polling places are as follows: Ward;'8 ',e hardest. He makes live speeches
1. Church street schoolhonse: wanl 2. i here this afternoon and the final address
Spaulding school ward 3, Summer street 1)e at the rally in Madison Square
school; ward 4, Brook street school; ward
5, Woodchuck Knoll school; ward 6, city
court room.
RELEASED FROM PRISON
John Bradley Was Pardoned By Governor
Gates,
Burlington, Nov. 4. Gov. Charles W.
Gates has granted to John Bradley, whose
home is in Hinesburg, an unconditional
pardon from the state prison at Windsor,
to which place he was sentenced on Sept.
2, 1913, for a period of not less than
two nor more than three years, when he
was convicted on the charge of statutory
aiault. Bradley is now out on parole,
having served about two years of his sen
tence.
Following the conviction of James
Dawson, also of Hinesburg, in city court
on Aug. 31, lfllfi, when he was sentenced
to not less than two and one-half and
not more than four years at the state
prison at Windsor for adulter", the gov
ernor's attention was called to the Brad
lev case.
All the witnesses against Bradley, who
ttarden. President Wilsnn nt !
Branch will make his last speech belora
an audience from his home state. J.
Frank Hanly, Prohibition candidate,
reaches his home in Indianapolis to-night,
after a final day of speech-making
through Indiana. Since "September H
Hanly has travelled nearly 20,000 miles
in o-t states.
Hughes, however, holds the record, his
trips having carried him 28.000 miles "in
33 states. None of the president's trips
was long as those of his rival, and most
of them were made to one specific point
for the purpose of delivering one prin
cipal address.
Women also had a greater part in the
campaign than ever before, feminine
workers seeking votes Tor nuglies trav
elled 11,700 miles and addressed nearly
200 meetings in 28 states.
NO 50-50 AMERICANS.
Declared Roosevelt in Addressing Rally in
New York.
New York, Nov. 4. Theodore Roose
velt, speaking at a mass meeting in
was charged with statutory assault on Cooper Union here last nigbt, denounced
Wanda Dawson, except Diwson, admitted I the policies of the Wilson administra-
under oath that Bradley's conviction was
the result of a frame-up and that he was
ent to the state prison an innocent man.
Dawson l now serving his time in u lnd-
sor and there is a case still pending
against him in Chittenden county court,
n which he is charged with." incest.
AGAIN HEAVY LOSER BY FIRE.
Woodstock 41 and St. Albans nine.
TAFT NOISILY WELCOMED
at
And Large Crowd Also Turned Out
Rutland.
Rutland, Nov. 4. Rutland county gave
a rousing reception to ex-President Taft
here lat night when the Republican cam
paign came to a close with the biggest
rally the city ever saw. Fifteen hundred
people gathered at the Shrine theatre t
hear the addresses and only the size of
the auditorium prevented hundreds more
You can't tell what the government will
do."
In answering to questions, Capt. Koe
nig said he probably would make his
homeward dash within the next 10 days.
He denied a report that ha would go
Uiroiijdi Cape Cod canal, saying nothing
was to bo gained by this route.
Officials of the Eastern Forwarding Co.
announced that the Deutschland's cargo
was discharged at 2 o clock 3'esterday
afternoon. Great care was exercised to
prevent outsiders from seeing the work.
Only the crews of the submersible and
the North German Llovd liner Willchad
were allowed in the hold. They passed
the freight out to negro stevedores, who
. D. Keyes & Co. of Rutland Sustained
Damage of $20,000.
Rutland, Nov. 4. For the second time
within three rears E. D. Keves & Co. of
this city, wholesale grocers, suffered
heavily from fire yesterday when flames
broke out in the coffee room on the sec
ond floor.
The damnge is upwards of $20,000 well
insured. The three-story brick building
was not greatly damaged by flames but
an immense stock of miscellaneous gro
ceries was drenched and thoroughly
smoked. The fire smouldered for hours
in cereals. Three firemen were overcome
by smoke and carried from the building.
TALK OF THE TOWN
WANT 49c A CAN.
Vermont Dairymen Meeting at Rutland
Fix Price.
Rutland, Nov. 4. Declaring that Bos
ton wholesalers are not paying produc
ers in Vermont prices equal to thos-e de
manded, about 30 members of the Ver
mont branch of the Ne'w England Dairy
men's association, mostly directors, met
here yesterday at the Hotel Berwick and
NEW SHIPPING RAID.
German Naval Craft Were Shelled Fruit
lessly By British.
Berlin, by wireleos to Sayville, Nov. 4.
A raid was made by German naval
tmall craft on the shipping route between
the mouth of the Thames and Holland on
Wednesday night, the admiralty an
nounced yeterday. Several steaimrs
were stopped and searched and two of
them were brought into a German port.
What Each of Three Granddaughters of
New York Woman Will Get.
New York, Nov. 4. The will of Mrs.
Marie Zinsser, filed here for probate,
leaves $10,000 to each of three grand
daughters on conditions that she can
cook an acceptable meal before her twenty-fifth
birthday. If any of the girls
fails in the domestic test her share re
verts to the residuary estate which is
left to three sons.
The three presumptive heirs are
daughters of Dr. Hans Zinsser of Colum
bia university. A fourth sister received
$10,000 last year after demonstrating
her ability to cook and sew in accord
ance with the condition formulated bv
Mrs. Marie Zinsser's husband and con
tinued bv her after his death.
The girls who are prospective benefi
ciaries of this bequest are Miss Helen
Zinsser of Bryn Mint college, Mis
Pr-pgy Zinsser of Smith college and nine-
year-oM Martraret Zinsser, who lives in
this citr. Miss Ellen Zinsser of Smith
college, is ti sister ho has met the
test.
horns and rattles increasing the din of
many voices.
The speakers were introduced by Attv.
Walter S. Fenton, Republican candidate
for city representative. Horace Graham,
Republican candidate for governor, gave
a talk on domestic affairs. He outlined
the policies for the state to pursue in the
decided not to ship any milk to Boston! next two years, recommending doing the
unless paid 40 cents a can of 8 quarts I best we can with what money we have
on the platform at the Massachusetts (and not increasing the taxation of the
attending,
Mr. Taft was the guest at dinner of stored it in the warehouses
frank C. Partridge of Prctor and when
he reached the city bv motor car he was "A PRIVATE MATTER
escorted to the theatre bv the band. An
orchestra played patriotic airs while the Says Collector of Customs About the
crowd was .ssembling Deutschland's Cargo.
As ex-President Taft arraigned the
Democratic party for their blunders and Bridgeport, Conn., Nov. 4. .Tames L.
criticized Wilson's administration he was McGovcrn, collector of customs for Con-
interrupted frequently by applause, tin necticut, acknowledged here last night
Harold Label), who has been em
ployed for several months as a clerk in
the Smith & Cumings store, completed
his duties to-day and expects to leave
this evening for New Britain, Conn.,
where he has employment in a machine
shop.
George Batcheldcr, who is employed as
a machinist in Windsor, was a visitor
in the city this morning while on his
way to Plaintield for a week-end visit speech.
tion and urged his audience to "put in
the presidential chair the clean and up
right justice of the supreme court, tho
fearless former governor of New York
whose public record has been that of a
man straightforward in his thought and
courageous in his actions, who cannot be
controlled to do what is wrong and who
will do what is right no matter what in
fluence may be brought against him."
The former president broke away from
his speech which he had prepared in ad
vance to say what he thought of the so-
called "hypenatcs." He declared that al
though Washington and Lincoln were of
English blood they were both Ameri
cans through and through.
"No American can be a good Ameri
can on a fifty-fifty basis," said Col.
Roosevelt. "There is no room in this
country for English-Americans, German-
Americans, i rench-Amcricans, Irish
Americans or any other kind of Amer
icans but real Americans."
In referring to Secretary of War Bak
er's record alleged comparison of Wash
ington's soldiers with the constitutional
ist forces in Mexico, Col. Roosevelt said
Mr. Baker was "an amiable man who
knits."
Once during his speech when the for
mer president quoted from the will of
George Washington in which the first
i president bequeathed his swords to his
: nephews and cautioned them not to un
j sheath them except for self-defense or
J for the defense of their country, someone
I in the audience shouted:
"Sounds like Wilson."
Cl Roosevelt paused for a moment
and the voice in the audience said:
"I mean Roosevelt."
Col. Roosevelt smiled and continued his
When he had cnneluded he was
with relatives. He was accompanied bv
Thomas G. Egan, who will be his guest
until Monday.
driven to a theatre in East Houston
street, where he made a brief address.
TALK OF THE TOWN
city. As milk is handled in this state
this means $2.25 to $2.40 a hundred
pounds, whereas the Boston interests of
fer only $2.30.
Emphasis was given the fact that all
milk will be withheld until the price is
agreed upon. Mr. Pattee of Boston, sec
retary of the New England association,
adressed the meeting.
BODY FOUND IN LAKE.
William J. Cnmmings of Littleton Dis
appeared Some Days Ago.
Littleton, N. 11.. Nov. 4. The body of
William J. Cnmmings. which had been in
Forest lake since Tuedav evening.'was
people.
TRYING TO TRAIL LIQUOR.
The second issue of "Bnrre Granite,'
the monthly publication of the-Granite
Manufacturers' association, is being dis
tributed to subscribers. The oflicial or- East Barre firemen have decided to
gan of the manufacturers has been in-j hold their annual dance in the opera
creased to six pages and tiie current is- i house in that village Nov. 20 and a corn
sue contains a wealth of material thatjmittce has been appointed to complete
will prove interesting to its clientele. . arrangements for the affair. An orchestra
Some results of the nation-wide advir-has been engaged from this city to play
iTisnir puniimiirn nrnwpTpn iiv omn i lor I up umiriiiir Bni a. ronrpri win ire-
Tl .t. 1.1--J" I " r--r" - j i . " . . r- - - ----- -
I' l l! 5 Imti rf Hurra lmat finrinrr u ra in. I ifii ti.l rMP the flflnpp nrdpr Thk YV T. I -
. i.. i, n.n:rs nf
" .ru..,iIMn ot Uiirre last spring are in
cargo had been niert with him, but de-Bn,j a number of the 'complimentary of East Barre has embraced the oppor
clined to make public any information j things said about "Barre Urinlte" a'situnity to serve a chicken-pie supper on
regarding it. 'well as Barre granite are reprinted. Sev-jthe same evening and the proceeds will
"It is a private matter," be said, "and, Lrai viewpoints are presented bv deal- be devoted to the library fund. The
besides, the government rules do not al- ers from Maine to California to 'Louisi- j supper will be served in" O ld Fellows
low jne to make it public." allll- The IittIe jourm,i contributes a hall.
Tatru-Q r-TTTT "RT A MF real s''rvioe ''""""d'ng the doings oft Returns from the canvassers and sev-
1A&la PUMt several association committees and the Pra committees connected v. ith the play-
, . cv,.,. c,.,: j 'firm of 'kllstro 4 Labrann is named as 'ground benefit dame given by the Goose
For Plots to Blow Up Subway Stations m pno pf the oon(.prns to affiliate f:r.. ,i . ' i.,w mK Wednes-
New York.
New York, Nov. 4. According to the
police, James A. Murna, a former subway
criKirrl lnxt nipht assumed full resnonsi.
Which Mysteriously Disappeared from hiit v for th(, project of dynamiting two
Brattleboro Lockup.
Brattleboro, Nov. 4. In an effort to
determine how several gallons of liquor
disappeared from the police station, i
where it was being kept as contraliaml
pending disposal by court order. Judge
F. E. Barber of the municipal court
caused an' inquest to be started vester-
lav. Assistant Judce F. B. Pier of the !
county court is presiding. Attorney
(Jeneral H. G. Barber and State's Attor
ney O. B. Hughes are examining the
witnesses behind locked doors. Two po-
with the association. The publication is
from the Granite City Press.
Mis Ruth Jackson of South Baire re
ceived a deep cut over her eve. which
stations of the Interborough Rapid Tran
sit Co. He was said to have admitted he
suggested the use of dynamite and pro-
. t-1 - y r i ir
posea to l nonius .i. .unmicr, cnnuneiir, j rOHl j,
as a possimc intermediary in its pur
chase. He told the police, they said, he
was so anxious to have the men in their
strike he was willing to sacrifice his life
if necessary.
His Model.
A ambitious young man called upon a
publisher and stated that he had decided
to write a book.
day evening indicate that more than $300
will be diverted to the playgTound luna.
All outstanding bills have been paid
and the money, which is to be turned
over to the Woman's club, will cancel
a deficit rc-iilting from the operation
of the playgrounds in I!1 and leave a
considerable balance for the work next
I season.
Luitpold Nuiwl. who recently estab-
to men in an automobile, who gave lished himself in the painting ousineiw
her an invitation to ride, which she do- 'in Barre, I'as rive brothers who are fight
dined as a friend was to meet her within ing for iernviiiy. All of them were on
a short time; but upon being urged by the etorn frvnt at last writing and
the driver of the machine, she stepped in although they were in the service when
and rode until she mw her friend in the , the r broke out and have been at the
road- On her telling the man who was front almo-t continually, none of them
driving that the IMwIc-ht rijlt, n-at. lhH nnr. !i.1 heen woundH. Mr. Nuisil wan a.
(son whom she was to meet, he put on ' rcserv it
necessitated a stitch end was badly jolt-1
ed as she jumped from a moving automo- j
bile Thursday night south of South j
Barre village, striking her face on the ;
Mis Jackon, who was walk- i
ing to meet a friend, was overtaken bv I
hiineit.
hut left the Father
time before Germtnr
recovered several hundred vards from
shore ner a rock that apparently caused jlice officers. Sheriff C. E. Mann and Dep
the accident. utv Sheriff C. I. Knann. who are the only
til Ti,,,r... nrn;n m.mi.. ! m.r.nn. .,..,M..-! tA t-.... 4 ii.., I niinm of the book von nroDose to . from the car. thev mere far from the declared war.
of men with the boy scouts of Bethlehem lockup, were questioned. Besides the' write? asked the publisher, very polite- ; place. Mr. Jackson, who bitch.-.! up a ,to wlvti.er ne jipe.v, i r"ur ,K"
searched the lake and shore for Mr. I whiskey, wine and rurr. that disappeared, j lr. j horse and drove to meet the joung pen-jun arm for his native Untl, he replies
nld fnnnH W lrinn . J.,.! 1.- thmt the w.io brtwn th
1:30 oYWk. although it u nearlv 2 of it was missing when inventory was j aspirant to literary fame, "I think of do- jtion and he immediately snmimme 1 lir-jlnitcl Mate-, and l-ermany ? "
o'clock before thev could jet it out ofitaken preparatory to selling it by' order ' ing something on the line of 'Les Mi.era-W. E. Lazell, w ho treated the wounJ on'mpt'd to preclude the poMitnlity of
the wter. " ef tie court. Lies,' only livelier, you know." her forehead. returmnf.
'fiiv I vntur to inmiir to th : more KPod and lefnr h mnM iumn Nml iut shrt
