MAILS .
From Can Franc!atf
Manoa, March 21.:
For San Francisco "
' GtNorth'n. Mar. 16.
From Vancouver: :
Niagara, March 22.
For Vancouver: ..
Makura, March II.
r?v?.-..:
-i I
Edallioa
Evening Bulletin. Est ISM. No. 6423
Hawaiian Star. VoL XXIII, No. 74C4
14 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15,; 1916. 14 PAGES
. . L 4 ! ; . t ; : ' .
1 '
PRICE FIVE CENT3
a
(pram)
u
r
0)
m
.
MI?
LudLk;
LuJ
AMEEliCAtl COfiSUL AT TORREOW
if LEES WITH OTHER REFUGEES;
SOLDIERS AT EL PASO READY
SENATE ADOPTS HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION TO RECRUIT
r- STANDING ARMY TO 120,000 AT 0 MCE DEATH OF COL.
ROJAS AT HANDS OF OWN TROOPS CONFIRMED CEN-
SORSHIP SHUTS 'OFF: KNOWLEDGE OF TROOP MOVES
PERSHING IN ACTIVE
COMMAND OF COLUMN
GOING AFTER VILLA.
. . f Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless.
DEMING, New Mexico March 15. American troops in force
curbed from dedumbus, New Mexico, into Mexican territory- shortly
atter noon; according to news received liere.
; ' "EL" PASO. Texas, March IS.The American troops here are
: ready to go to Mexico on the hunt for; Villa. Camps have been broken
'and the soldiers" are under marching equipment. V t : ' ,
,Tlie censors are prohibiting the transmission of news of the actual
movements. V . ; ;'.' ' : ' . ' . :
WASHINGTON, D. March 15. The American troops have
; crossed the border and the movement into Mexico has begun, though
the news is only unof ficially announced here. :
MARFA Texas; Marl 5. That mutinous Carranza troops around
Ojinaga, northeastern 'Chihuahua; are threatening to invade the United
' States,, and that . the Americans; across the border are alarmed, is the
(word that comes. today with the confinnation of last night's reported up
. rising ' ' ' : -' j ' - : '
.V j The rumor !of the death of Col. Benjamin Rbjas, the Carranza com-
Jiander at Ojinaga, "was confirrqed today. ; Rojas was Wiled at the hamis
r i his own. men .while attempting to control them. They were mutin
i mi -i !
THIRD BATTLE OF
VERDUN IS BEGUN
WITH BIB LOSSES
J v i - 1' o T Z - .
t s, fired with liquor, and tnreatemng to nae -across me uuxuvi tuu
'iLade the United States, i v
: ,120,000 ARMY PLAN PROGRESSES FAST ;..
V; WASHINGTON, DC, March :15-The senate today Approved
w ttiiout a dissenting vote the joint resolution already 'adopted by ,the
house providing that the standing army shall be recmited to the full
strength .of the various units, totaling 120,000 men. The resolution now
goes to the president for bis approval, which' is considered ceruiri.
f , i RUIIOR OARRAN2A ASKS DELAY BY U. 8. ;
T;"AVASUINdTON,:Dc.VMarcn:l5
asked today if a request had been received, from Carranda officials to
delay the American expedition across the border so that the Carranzistas
might be enabled to execute their own plans regarding the capture of
Villa, a report, being AhatCaj
. - .! have nothing to say on that subject,"-, the secretary answerai.
. i Tlie report has received some tredence, .partiadarly. in view of the or-
conization o( an expedition by-Carranza generals. - ; fc ,
, : Owing" to; the censorship imposed by.Gen. Funston, particularly with
regard to the movement of troops at Columbus, there is no defihite-news
as to whether the Americans have yet crossed the border:, I ;J
' ( , ; AUERICA1? CONSUL FLEEING PROM TORREON :
?"-t.TORREON; Mexico? March' 15. Tlie American consul at .Torre
- on, Mr. Williams, has turned the U. S.'ctinsulate over to the British vice
consul and is preparing io hurry across the border. ?. Most of the 40
Americans m this: city, including-Williams . and, his wife, are delayed
in departing by the fact that the "refugee train" is held up by a wreck. ;
Conditions here are about normal. " :; "' V r-':.
WASHINGTON, D. C March 15. Officials of the state depart
f ment and consular service are puzzled over the departure of Consul Wil
liams from Torreon.- He left unmstructed and did not convey his rea
sons to the, department. It is realized that he must have good reason
for his action and the state department officials are reluctant to believe
that the consulate-is endangered by anti-American feeling. - --- :':f-yi
: CARRAirZA WOULD FORESTALL AMERICANS - V
' SAN ANTONIO, Texas, March 15. Advices received here say
that the Carranza troops are being worked desperately to capture Gen.
v Villa and thus forestall the eutrance of Americans into their territory: -,
GALVESTON, Texas, March 15. Salvado Aharado,: governor of
the state of Yucatan, has issuel a decree prohibiting foreigners "from ac-
- quiring title to real estate tn Yucatan;? i ne action is saia to dc we resmi
of the activity of foreigners, unsettling the money market : .
m FIGIIIOfl
IRCPECTIOW OF
' CQ:;ST VESSELS
L A.vThurston Wants Promo
tion Committee to Work for
Abolition of Custom Here
: Stating that he believed that quaran
tine Inspection here is unnecesBry,
Lorrtn Thurston at a meeting 61 the
- Hawaii Promotion Committee this
morning fired the first gtm in the campaign-
to abandon Quarantine inspec
tion on liners plying between main
land ports and Honolulu. -:
In his talk- before the members of
th . committee Mr. Thurston stated
that Inasmuch as there was no Quar
antine Inspection made at Galreston
-from liners learing. New York and
"other ports, there should be no
discrimination here. He stated that
Honolulu, was the only , port where
quarantine inspection was made ; on
v steamers jplytog between American
porta.. , v-
; Mr. Thurston quoted U E. Cof er,
formerly in the United States service
- in this city and now assistant surgeon
general at Washington, as saying that
" quarantine' Inspection here Is abso
lutely unnecessary, and the Inspection
: rrs.d continued because no effort had
been made to abandon the policy.
In" his talk" on the disadvantages of
(Centred ca ptye two)
BIG EXTRA ON
BOI STOCK
THIS QUARTER
: : ; - i . . v.'' : .1 ;
Dividend of $120,000 Declar
ed; Market Quiet, With 0!aa
and Oahu Down a Fraction -
Directors ot C. Brewer & Company
met this morning and declared an ex
tra dividend of 24 "Per cent payable
with the regular monthly dividend of
IVi per cent on March 31. The 4 per
cent which the. stockholders will re
ceive 'on the last day of this month
will total $120,000, on the capitaliza
tion of . $3,000,000. The last recorded
sale of the stock on 'change was at
$323 per share.. . ;-"v:';. r-rSiSi
Morning on. 'Change. ; - '
Only 25 shares f of stock changed
hands on 'change . this morning, : five
of Olaa and 20 of Pioneer. Between
boards dealIngsN totaled 1484 shares.
Olaa has weakened, and at the close
this morning was offered without taa
ers at 1 7-8. Oahu Sugar Is off one
quarter, being offered at $33.?d with
out buyers, after one sale at $34, the
former ruling price. Hawaiian Com
mercial, on -the other hand, la up 50
cents, and is strong with $49 bid. Pio
neer, Ewa and Kahuku, tjie only other
issue active today, are unchanged it
yesterday's quotations. : : ; .
A large acid and cheirical manufuc
turlng plant will be erected at Wash
ington, pel by. the Pyrites Co., Ltd.' .
Brig.-Gen. J. J. Pershing.
i5r
. f AuocUtad Prs by FederU Wlreleitl .
t wAShiNGTON, D. C,, March' 15.
The president is considering Col. L, D.
Tyscn of Knoxville," Tenn., as assist
anVeecretary of war, to take the place
of Assistant Secretary Henry Breck-enridge,-
who resigned with Secretary
EASTERN STATES
SWEPT BY STORSI
Cponh fim Tronrhoc TaWon
fl IbllVII WtHIIII i wiiwiivw r w
From Germans wear uum
t v jeres and Bethincourt
GERMANS SAY- IMPORTANT
- GAINS ARE THEIR OWN
Austria! Follows Example of
Ally In DeclaringWar
v on Portugal
AMOdAtod Ptom fey Fedtril Wirtleul
PARIS,; France, ' March ' l5v-The
great battle of Verdun is on, wtth both
sides fighting with a fyry not percept
ibly diminished by the staggering Iom
es of the, two previous engagements,
both of which lasted several days.
The artillery exchanges on the Ver
dun sector are virtually continuous,
and the French are now taking the
JLaggresalve in counter-attacks. These
ttiacks have i resulted in .the. reoccu
pation of trenches taken by the Ger
man between Bethincourt and , Cu
mieres. The French hold the height of
Morthomme. The fighting- on all aides
la ferocious. After the lult ofthree
days the activity today means that
the third battle of the series la fairly
under way. , "We are certain" of final
auccess," .declares Gen. Petal n, the
French officer, who Is in active com
mand on the Verdun front. .
GERMANS CLAIM SUCCESS
BERLIN, Germany, March 15. The
Germans-have made important gains
cn the west today, particularly on the
west of the Meuse, in the Verdun sec
tion.. They hae pushed their lines
west, of Corbeaux woods v, and . the
height' of Morthomme, and taken 1000
prisoners, i f ' -. .
.j, -n -
BERLIN DENIES RUMOR
BERLIN, Germany, March 15. Of
ficial denial' was made , today, of the
report that Germany has abandon"?
her new submarine campaign, under
the. terms of which she isf, attacking
armed merchantmen as warships.
The campaign Is declared to be tn full
swing. - ' . '
illTCW OPEfW DE8ME TELLS C0MSS
ONE-CENT TA( NECESSARY TO FOOT PVi
EllPENDITUBES FOR PREPAREDNESS Mm
t
J fAwoeUUd Pre by Ttinal WfraleMl
NEW YORK, N. ; March 15. A
blizzard has broken at Various points
In New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio.
A stiff, gale is blowing and two feet
of snow is expected to fall Traffic
is much hampered. .
SEATTLE GANG 1
UNOER ARREST
1 SEATTLE,; Waslu March 15.-Tive
whites, 17 Chinese. and one Japanese
were arrested here today, accused of
being part of an organized : gang of
smugglers.
BLBBBSHM
CHICAGO, m., Mareh 15. Blood
was ahed today in the rioting around
the plant of the Corn Products Com-
NEW YORK STOCK
. MARKET. TODAY,
-i i.. . i
Following are the dosing prices cf
stocks on the' New' Yo. k market to
day, sent by the Associated Preja ovs?
the Federal Wireless:
Yester-
Today. day:
Alaska Gold ..4.. 20H 204
American Smelter 0Tt 101&3
American 8ugar Rfg. . . . 1092 108 4
American Tel. A Tel.... 129 129
American Copper I 87? 83
Atchison .104 1C4
Bald wi n Loco. 111H 111
Baltimore & Ohio...... f89 83;4
Bethlehem Steel 517 543
Calif. Petroleum" ....... 25 242
Canadian Pacific 168', 1672
C M. VSt P. (St. Paul) 95 95
Colo. Fuel eV iron. . . . . 4', 46
CrueJble Steel : . ..... . . 83'2 93J2
Erie Common 37
General Electric ....... 1702 172
General Motors 475
Great Northern Pfd....122'2 123'2
Inter. Harv Nr. J.. ':. . . , 109 ,109
Kennecott Copper ...... 66 56,
Lehigh R. R. v... ...... 79'4 . 792
New York Central .105 106
Pennsylvania v.........." 57 57J
Ray Consol. ... . 24'4 Ity
"Southern Pacific ....... 99 99t
Studebaker .... ,146!2 14714
Tennessee Copper ...... 58 - 57
Union Pacific 134 134
U. S. Steel 86 Va
U. S.teel Pfd...... 117Vs
Utah ...... 83 83
Western Jnlon 80 90'z
Westinghcuse .....I.... 704 . M
PORTUGAL-IN NEW WAR
LONDON, Eng. March - 15. News
has been received . here that Austria
has declared war cn Portugal; follow
ing the example other ally Germany.
- A Renter's despatch from Geneva,
Switzerland, , says tbat rAustril has
recalled ner minister from Lisbon and
that the Portuguese minister at Vien
na has been landed his passports.
MARRIED MEN OBJECT,
LONDON, Eng., March IS. Unex
pectedly early calla" for married men
to join '- the. army, raider the ; Derby
plan, have ' created grave" dissatisfac
tion in England, and the government
Is reported to be considering a change
in policy. . . - ,
LOAN FOR BULGARIA
COPENHAGEN, Denmark, March
jr.. The Deutsche Tages Zeitung says
that a new Bulgarian loan for a large
sum, drawing 6 per cent, will be issued
in AprflL
pany. One man was probably fatafly
shot.' Three ..Hundred rioters outside
the plant end ea vored to rush the
gates Their grievance is the demand
for a .wage increase.
Remember V
THE PURPOSES OF PREVE NT1VE ORGANIZATIONS.
By 4. JESSIE RAE. V
; : V tThis Is the third of a series of thort papers published this week as edu
cational work In preparation for Honolulu's "Baby Week." The fourth will
' be published tomorrow, "The ; Curative Organizations of Hondulu.- by Mrs.
Isaac M. Cox.
In connection with Honolulu's Baby Week we have first of all Jo look
to headquarters.
: ; We have the Salvation Army, with Its beautiful home in Manoa Valley,
' doing such splendid child welfare work along the lines of Better Babies.
Better Children, Better Citizens. '.; - , . f
V The Susannah Wesley Home on King street for the reception of Japan
ese and Korean women and children.
: The Castle Home In Manoa Valley, which takes in young children from
. the age of 3 to 6 years and keeps them till they finish with school
; ! Palama. Settlement is a large organization of men, women and district
' nurses, having for its chief object the health of the city. Its work is edu
cational, social and preventive. The nurses are skilful and ever on the
. watch for suspicious cases of tuberculosis, eye: diseases, etc., and make
reports to the city physician.. They have seven dispensaries situated in dif
ferent parts -of 'the city, where children and others may come to have
miner, ailments treated; they go into the. homes of the people and teach
poor mothers how to prepare milk for their babies and how to care for
their sick, lor they advise them to go to a hospital if unable to get proper
care at home. They are also the, school nurses of Honolulu. In all this
work they are building for the future in the making of healthier and better
.citizens. ' - -
The purposes or alms of all the se institutions is the betterment of
4he .race, and. Honolulu's Baby Week is to be the beginning of a. real cam
"rdgn for Baby Welfare, in which we hope to place before the public the
' work which is being done now and the establishment of a permanent Child
. Welfare Center, where pne and all may obtain necessary information for
"the rearing of their offspring. r .- .
House Leader Declares Ailministraiion
lesires Legislation and Urges Prompt
Passage of Revenue Measure :
, BULLETIN. V
Special Stu-Bantla CabU . i i
WASHIXGTON, D. C, March 15. Representative Edward Kfa't.
ing of Colorado is sixakinj at length against the sugir hill. He is pn?
of the ten Democrats who refused to. ahide hy the Democratic caucu
decision. : "
Folbwing Rerjresentative Keating, Representative C II. Sloaiv of
Nebraska, Republican, spoke in favor of the bill and Representative V.
Wi Bailey, Pennsylvania, Democrat, spoke against it. 'J v"
Representative James V. Collier of Mississippi backetl Conirress -
i man Kitchin in urging the passage of the sugar repeal bill. He gen- ;
eraliy defenued the tariff act. ; .
Reprebentative Hampton Moore of Pennsylvania, Republican, spoke
the repeal but dissected and criticized the tariff law.
Congressman IxmvOrth of Ohio,-Republican, spoke for the bill.
Congressman Hill of Connecticut "closed the debate, speaking f of
the bill.'. Congressman Kitchin at the last minute changed his announce
ment, saying that at 4 :30 tomorrow afternoon he. would ask for the
conclusion of the general debate. . The idea of votiifg today was given
up. The vote will probably come tomorrow evening.
it
Bid. jExivldend. JUnquoUd
URGED V1FE TO
LEAVE HIS II
TV V
Korean freaks? Vengeance on
Person Whom He Blamed for
Divorce Proceedings
Kim Hoong Yul, a Korean of Kaulu
wela lane, was shot-in the neck to
day shortly after 12f o'clock by . You
Uhu Yong, a fellow countryman, and
died just as He reached the emergen
cy' hospital at the police station. The
shooting is said to have been caused
by trouble over divorce proceedings.
Sarah Yee, the. woman In the case,
had sued for divorce from You Chu
Yong some time ago, and You blames
the dead man for the suit About noon
today, according to the woman's story,
he went to Kim Hoong's place, where
Sarah Yee was staying, declaring that
he intended to kill the whole family.
.Kim Hoong was conversing with an
other Korean at the , time,- witnesses
buy when You Chu broke into the con
versation, whipping out a XI caliber
revolver and firing at Kim Hoong.
The first shot missed, but the second
struck Kim Hoong in the-frpnt part
of the throat, hitting an artery. . ,
V ou chu Yong, - who ' audits t the
shooting to the police, sayk that he
wa s f irat - attacked by Kim Hoong.
Mbo fired rbnc shot, after which he
ruHed away the-fevolvlf and fired
back. This is denied; f the .woman.
Pak In Goo, the: 6thl withfsshas not
yet been interviewed. , : , . i .
TWO ARMY blilldNS
; WiLL GO INTO KOREA
(Special 'to Hawaii HochL)
TOKIO, Japan, : March;: 15. The
long-considered Japanese army bill,
providing for two . divisions of the
army to be stationed in Korea, having
passed! the- diet, the government will
form the . divisions . from troops now
in Tokio, and will send them to Korea
about April 1. ? .
W. LbWELL STILL IN
SERIOUS CONDITION
W. E. Rowell, who Is at the Queen's
hospital where' he was taken last Sat
urday after suffering a stroke of para
lysis, is still In a very serious condi
tion, according to word from there
this afternoon. Nurses are In constant
attendance upon the aged man. , .
DISTRICT MAGISTRATES
FOR MAUI APPOINTED
C. C. Conradt and Philip Pall have
been appointed district magistrates of
the County of Maui by Governor Pink
ham. Conradt is to serve in the dis
trict, of Molokal. beginning April 21
and Pali in the district of Lahafha, be
ginning- April 2.H . v :
Since the beginning of the war. the
Allies have captured 7.000.000 square
miles of German territory In Africa.
WASHINGTON D. C, March .15. Changing the program (of
consideration of the free-sugar bill unexpectedly, the House Democrats V
this afternoon bToughtthe Kitchin measure up on the floor and it is now .
being debated. J- - ' - ; ; : ::s-.1'-; : ';:V--':-s-;tv '
(,Thc plan this morning -was. to $ring the Kitchin bill, which repeals
the ffee-5ugar clause -of the tariff law, up for debate tomorrows-Theri
was no opposition to such action and the, only opposition to the bill itself
which' has materialized is from the ten Democrats who refused in tin:
Deimocratic caucus to gKJhxJbilLtheir approval
rassage 01 tne measure in spite ot sucn opposition is oeciareu cer
tain. - :; '.f ' ; 5 -y 7M ::- ,
With the administration anxious fc ipfompt 'action; the program
was unexpectedly, changed and the Kitchin bill brbught up in the
house late this afternoon. Its author, Congressman Kitchin, chairman
of the ways and means committee, proposed that the debate be limited
to seven and one-half hours. Other members t)fthe house said they
Uiought five hours' would be sufficient time for debate and, as the mat
ter new stands no-.time-limit for discussion was fixed. . .
No vote is expected late ,this evening or t arty tomorrow. Congress
man Kitchin opened the discussion, explaining the necessity for main
taining the tariff on sugar at one .cent a pound. I le 'said the revenue U
essential because 'of, the heavy expenditures for preparedness the coun
try is facing. He said also that the administration desires this" legisla
tion and urges thathe measure be promptly passed. ; rr
' - v : ; - ; C. S. ALBERTS "
MPI. GREENE IS
DEAD; SEA VILL
CALtliLOlER
Tenyo Maru's Brave Comman
der Loses Fighl for Life at
Queen's Hospital,
. -Ending his 'many years of. faithful
service for the ' Toyd Klsen KaUha.
Capt W. W. Greene, commander of
the -Tenyo Maru. : died at 10 o'clock
this merning at the Queen's Hospital,
where he had fought a brave fight for
life ever since he was carried ashore
cn a stretcher Monday, morning, suf
fering from blood poisoning. V ;
Although everything that medical
science could do was1 done for, him,
Capt. Greene sank slowly in the last
24 hdurs and died today, almost
within hearing of the sea which he
loved and followed as his profession.
Capt : Greene's . illness developed
fiom an attack of grip, which be
contracted while- oa duty at sea on the
.bridge of his ship. He was compelled
to turn over hia command to his chief
officer and take to his bed. Saturday
Dr. EL C. Waterbouse operated on him
oh board the' Tenyo." This seemed to
relieve him, but he grew worse as
'septicaemia developed. He was left
here when the Tenyo sailed for San
Frrfnciaco yesterday morniifg, -';
Widow Lives in Oakland. f
CapC Greene's widow Is living In
Oakland and has probably been In
formed of her husband's death by Mr.
Avery, according to Mr. Drew, -r The
remains will probably be sent to Oak
land on the Great Northern tomorrow
night, depending on ; Mrs. Greene's
wishes. -' : ; , - ' -"v, -
The 'dead sea, captain was 50 years
old, an Englishman, and a member of
the English naval reserves. He had
ben in the employ of the Toyo Klsen
Kaisha since it was .organized.- He
formerly commanded -the Nippon and
American Maru, and for years his ship
was the Chi) a Maru For the last sLc
months ie had been on. shore duty for
a rest. Ee was making his first voy
age as commander of the Tenyo when
stricken with his fatal Illness. .
KUHIO ASUS FOR
Alleges Error; in .Decision vof . '.
Supreme Court; Wants Writ
of Prohibition Dismissed ; '
. ;, , ; -
Declaring, among other things, that
there la error In the decision holding
that. Queen Lllluokalanl, In her proper '
fron, can, as a matter of right, dis
miss a cae brought by anoth r as her
"next friend". Delegate Jonah Kftfai
anaole. Circuit Judge T. B. Stuart and
I- rrin Andrews. ' next 'rind' and
guardian ad litem of the queen, today
filed in supreme court-motions-for a -rfcherng
of tho wrl: f prohibit kn
brougLt by Lllluokalanl a;?alnst Judg r
Sinjirt, V) .v:-v"
ft ts opinion n the writ fit prohl
bitl. r.' the supreuv court ileclared
that, as regards the queen, there was,
a presumption of sanity; that she was
not a party-complainant . la the suit
brought "by Kuhio to break the trust
in which thequeen's property is held, ;
and that the writ should be dismissed
for the reason : that the queen was
not rightly a party plaintiff. ' '
Circuit Judge Stuart and Delegate
Kuhio petitioned for a rehearing 0la -order
that the oral opinion and the'
decision and order made and fl'ed fa
said ease on itarch 8, 1918, may: be
modified by striking out all reference "
to her (the queen's), right to file a
discontinuance, and what the record
shows in. regard to thl same, except.
Ing as an assumption of the court for
the purpose of argument, and not as a
holding of the court." :, '
tl is further, declared la the same
motion that there Is error in the de
cision In deciding that the filing of
the discontinuance by the queen has '
the . effect of discontinuing such a
cause without the action of the court. .
Ia this respect the motion continues,
In part, as follows: ' J
"That it Is well settled that the enly
effect cf such an; attempt to d!3Con-,:. .
tlrue is to cause the court,-and it i3t
Us duty, to Inquire Into the cor.reten
cy of the petitioner to dismiss tinder
