- "
Financial edition
Euenmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
ilrttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
Fot..-No.i57
rmiiAPEiiPniA, avjijdesday, mabou ig, ioio.
Constant, 1910, ?ir tiii I'iblio Lidom Couraxt,
PRICE ONE CENT
W"l
S. CAVALRY MAKES DASH
INTO MEXICO, SAY MESSAGES;
RUMOR OF CARRANZA REVOLT
)00 Troops Said to Have Made Initial
Move From Columbus, N. M.,
'" Before Dawn Second Detail
3 Miles From Line
RiHTanzistas in Race to Catch Outlaws Before Arrival
of American Forces JRefugees From Interior
Tell of Outrages Committed
by Bandit Bands
American troops have crossed tho Mexican border in pursuit of Francisco
RSj and his band of outlaws, according to reports from various points along
fcTntcrnational boundary.
Sl-Pnrt of tho force Invading Mexico is said to be a cavalry detachment
&M500, commanded by Colonel George A. Dodd. It left Columbus, N. M., nt
FjjjO o'clock this morning, according to the reports.
HhA message from Hachita, N. M., stated that a second expeditionary
ijfjMtt," largely cavalry, had mobilized at Culberson's Ranch, three miles from
Iwbordcr, south of Hachita, and was ready to follow the first division into
l)faico.
?f,C8rranzistas, numbering approximately izuu, stationed at Las raiomas,
Stifles south of Columbus, have evacuated the post, it is said, in revolt
eimstvCarranza, and arc on their way to join Villa and his outlaws. Other
rtftarts gay tho force is obeying orders, going southward to join in the hunt
WrVMa'.
' Conflicting reports tell of an attack on Hachita, N. al., one to tnc eitect
it Villista raiders last night swooped down on the town, looting and
fcining. .Another said (jarranzisias maao tne attacK, engaging me (in
United States Cavalry and taking the town. Still another said all wa3
it at Hachita. The reports lacked confirmation. Tho Mexican head
irters at Juarez denied that C.irranza forces had made any such attack.
Frontier messages declare that Carranza forces are rapidly moving
toward in pursuit of Villa and that their leaders are confident of effecting
$ capturo beforo tho arrival of American forces.
Intimations continued that the Larranzistas .were engaged in efforts
delay and finally prevent tho punitive expedition, and fears of clashes
ilween United States troops and tho Carranzistas were not wholly relieved.
The revolt of Carranzistas at Presidio, Tex., and the execution of Gcn
Rojas, a powerful Carranza lieutenant at Ojinngas, aroused new fears
American officialdom that Carrnza would not be able to hold his forces
ffifu&eck and that the American expedition would meet armed opposition by
IfjfrfconstHl'tional troops.
Kvl)a la sun in tne uaienna rcgiun, uciwuing io latest reports, neaded
r toward Chihuahua City or to tho mountain fastnesses- AtvChfhuahua
jt'i'.jjtHing Carranza garrison and an expedition of search is expected to
?Srt from that point. ... . ', '
'i' The editor of a Carranza newspaper in El Paso was arrested for pub-
h-iiatuon ox an nruciu conumreu v ...wu mi..-;iv,ii,oii iiyi-o..
iaaaaa ikwty tBMMwJtLylBtWkTml
SUBMARINE IN 15
DAYS OFFERED TO
U. S. BY EDISON
Plan Also Includes Build
ing of Aeroplanes
Overnight
URGES BIG LABORATORY
AGNEW T. DICE
A. T. DICE IS ELECTED
PRESIDENT OF READING
TO SUCCEED VOORHEES
Vice President and Trafiic Man
ager Chosen to Principal
Post by Board of
Directors
Wants Plant for Standardiza
tion of Parts and Aboli
tion of Red Tape
STARTED AS FLAGMAN
i.U. S. SOLDIERS CROSS
IBORDER IN HUNT FOR VILLA,
8AY REPORTS FROM FRONT
RT. PASO. Tefc.. March IB.
Vi&lt& States troops, detailed to hunt
n and caoture Frnnclsco Villa, al-
iMr have crossed tho Mexican border
,M'Hvtrat points, according to messages
iMred here today.
0Std confirmation of the troop move- I
Cmlry forces numbering 4500 men
li.: .' .(.- K .1 .nlttlPA nV.
nraiea mat section ui mw i'untm -"Haitian
said to have crossed the border
u Mexico irom uoiumouu, -. ;
Hut...
MTha column included portions of l the
UWulOth. 8th and 7th Cavalry, nc
VpnlLby two nmbulance companies
paetneia hospital company.
rdlng to the reports, col ueorse a.
commander of the 2d Cavalry
fcde. was In command of the Invading
(rtn, General Pershing having re
fcetntd at Columbus. This .-was taken to
Hen that Columbus would be only the
,t and not the only place where troops
ili enter Mexico to hunt down Villa.
Wbfti the reports concerning the armv
Wtvementa were taken to Malor Ilarnum.
mml Eunston's chief of staff, at Sun
xuo, ie said;
(ran tell'you nothing,"
rai mnston was seen laier ai nia
ice. lie said:
1 cannot officially tell you whether
eM'hava crossed th hnrder. because.
itisMwtly, J, dont know, I have left ull
(iltoria general Pershing's hands. If he-
M Into Mexico early this morning I
n?t yet received word to that enect.
raslon came from sev
agreed that the start
about 2:30 o'clock this
Hjj expected the advance guard
'w lor uuzman, Biex., ano esiao
ilol first base of operations against
the 1ltt vmTn4m .arlv tnAnV "Villa
tMr the Qaleana district, moving
ro Chihuahua City. General Luis
n was to leave Juarez today for
nut city personally to lead the
1X& mimillt nt IhA ml.tgti, Tfta AflV-
tUUment that he had 6000 men on
Mff.'ls already has been revised to
IS''.'?thef Jn or en route to the Qaleana
2 to begin the pursuit.
Wrihilstas have not given up hope
SV . mUltary activity toward cap
gt Ylll will prevent or at least post-
ge s?t yet received
pftworu of the Inva
ffi ketata ind all a
"Mwi-wade at ab
CoUuuHon Paie roar. Column One
THE WEATHER
C3HHOH Tl.fl, nJ ..
SH Viti( have their fling;
t-;;-juei meet soar
EMM o'er thin newsy fortim pore,
y-"s in? page to tea toAat's hap-SPtnlng,
KVi tousle, money more
E iw r page doth Iring,
Ung o'er and o'er.
vm aayt more till tpringt"
, t FORECAST
si rauacttinhin n,,i .,,-,.,..,
grninj; to anow and muck colder
r&wiinuinperQture a(Ji( to
j"" vy xnursaay morntnp;
- iy tiwuuu una coiaer.
Maj& see pag 17.
lOST AND FOUND
ZjOak rtn Bunlau
wUi Jz",, WU" .lUgitllUf, D9MTI
iiw r,ewi" aifmona t top. i c la
5K ffto tit Jarne cEurcti r
aS&fwJS9 Mtuw l 8' 9Ui
VSmHSV! cTusur juuTToirSt-
. -rm tivt w.a aiiu mn m nn i flaua
"aji a.45g, d?tr c5tTt.
m jr a vgti
RACE TO GET VILLA STARTS
BETWEEN U. S. FORCES AND
TROOPS OF CARRANZISTAS
WASHINGTON, March 15. Although
there was not the slightest doubt that the
Pershing expedition to "get Villa" was
w 11 on Its way south from the New Mex
ican border, the War Department with
held ofllclal announcement today, There
was no mistaking tho air of expectancy,
however, among the officers on duty. They
of the punitive expedition, which now must
engage In a race with tho Carranzlsta
soldiers.
Confidential advices from tho border
show that Carranza now has more than
half of his entire army tracking Villa and
his officers are bending every effort to
get him before the American forces reach
the scene.
The censorship over the operations on
the border was made absolute today. He
cause of the danger of attempts to cross
and attack Isolated American towns or
settlements. General Punston has spread
his men all along the line. At certain
places these forces have been made very
strong because of secret Information con
veyed to the War Department by the
agents of tho Department of Justice, nut
all Information Is withheld as to disposi
tions to prevent the news reaching Mex
ican spies.
It was stated today that the response
to the onjers to recruit the army to full
war strength probably will be the greatest
In the Ktates along the border. Nearly
every recruiting officer In' that section has
a long watting list of ellgibles, and they
will be sent for at once. While awaiting
the certain favorable action of the Senate
on the Uay resolution granting authority
Which passed the House yesterday the
army experts will examine these men,
perfect their enlistment papers and get
them ready to start to the recruit bases at
once.
There will be no attempt to drill these
green men together. Instead, all will be
sent directly to the border or to' army
posts where troops now are and Incor
porated with the well-trained units al
ready on duty. In this way the recruits
Will become immediately available for
service, as they will be hedged n on
every side by men who know the ropes.
Secretary Daker declined to answer a
question as to whether or not the War
Department had received the request of
the Carranza commander at Gl Paso to
delay the American expedition after Villa.
This was taken here to mean that the re
quest had been received, but that no
action would be taken regarding it. It
was thought the request would be placed
before the State Department and allowed
to stay there without answer until after
the expedition Is well under way.
Announcement was expected from Gen
eral Funston today regarding reassign
ment of border patrols. Citizens of
Arizona were especially fearsome of raids.
At Nogales and Agiia Pletra Carranzlsta
garrisons were reported withdrawn In the
pursuit of Villa, leaving the Arizona bord
er free to operations of small outlaw bands
which recently have raided American,
ranches.
Agnew T. Dice, vice proHltlent ami gen
eral manager of the Philadelphia nnd
Heading Hallway Company, was elected
president of the road at a incatlng of tho
board of directors held at tho Heading
Tcrmlnnl this nftcrnod'n. Ho succeeds
Theodore Voorhecs. who died nt hiH home
In Elltliis Park last Saturday night. Mr.
Dlco hn.i been connected with the rail
road slnco 1S91.
Since Mr. Dice had been reported as
tho most likely successor to Mr. Voor
hees, his election today was not a sur
prise. Sir. Dice was born lit Scotland, Pa.,
November 2, 1892, and has been In tho
service of tho Heading Hnllwny slnco
April 1, 189. He began railroad work
In 1881 ns n flagman with a Pennsylvania
Hallrbad engineer corps. From 1882 to
1887 he was rodman nnd assistant en
gineer on the same road, nnd from 1887
to 1888 was engaged on special work in
connection with signals nt Altoona. Sub
sequently he was made assistant super
visor of signals for the Pennsylvania
Hallroad, remaining In that cupneity
Until 1890," when he was promoted to
supervisor of slgnnls. He continued In
that position until January 1, 1892, when
he wont to the New York Central as
superintendent. of signals. On Jnnuary
1, 1893, he was made assistant superin
tendent of tho Hudson division of that
road, which position he filled until April 1,
18D4, when he was mado superintendent
of the Heading's Atlantic City Railroad.
After remaining there nenrly three years,
he was appointed, on January 1, 1897. as
sistant superintendent of the Reading
division In charge of terminals In Phila
delphia, and on February 1 following was
promoted to his present position ns super
intendent of the Shnmokln division.
Since then he has been with the Reading
In the capacities of superintendent, gen
eral superintendent, general manager nnd
vlco president and general manager. Mr.
Dice Is a member of the Union I.engue.
Hlttenhouso Club. Engineers' Club of Phil
adelphia. New York Railway Club, Sea
view Golf Club and Berkshire Country
Club of Reading.
WASHINGTON, March IS. "Give me
Mm men, tho material nnd the plant and
I'll build you a submarine In IB days,"
was the preparedness message delivered
to the House Naval Affairs Committee to
day by Thomas A I'Mlson, the electrical
and incclmnlc.il Inventor. With wngglng
head nnd nervous gestures the genius
gathered the comnilttcn In a little group
nbout him and Impatiently waved nsldo
nil objections to hit creed of "standardiza
tion nnd speed."
Kubmnrincs In two weeks, neroplanes
overnight nnd all sorts of preparedness
material In tho twinkle of nn oyo, were
promised tho committee by tho greatest
Inventor of his time. He explained In
rapid hort sentences how It could bo
done.
"Eliminate Government red tape," de
manded lMlson Impatiently, shaking two
accusing fingers at the committee, "and
give us u Government laboratory whereby
Intensive experiments can be conducted
and wo can establish stnndards on which
uAerythlng we need can be built."
"What kind of a submarine could you
build In two weeks?" Representative Rob
erts of Massachusetts asked.
"Any kind of a submarine. Tho E
boat tho Government Is now building,"
returned Edison.
"You mean you could build one If you
had all tho material assembled?"
"No. I could build It If I had the
proper plant, tho proper men, and a scrap
heap," shouted tho genius, wagging his
head Impatiently.
Mr. Kdlson was asked what the Gov
ernment ought to appropriate for yearly
FRENCH ATTACKS
HALT FOE'S RUSH
WESTOFMEUSE
Germans Assert Big Gains
Made Northwest of
Verdun Forts
QUICK NEWS
TEUTONS HOLD CORBEAUX
Paris Says Counter-Assaults
Regained Positions on Hill
265, Lost Yesterday
Continued on rage Keren. Column Three
CENTRE OF STATE
GRIPPED BY BLIZZARD
VILLA, BELLOWING
INRAGE,SPURRED
MEN TO BUTCHER
Refugee Describes Mani
acal Harangue Prior to
Columbus Attack
Vicious French counter-attacks have
halted tho now German offensive
launched yestorday on tho west haul; of
tho Mouse, northwest of Vorduti, ac
cording to ofllclal dispatches from Paris
this nftcrnoon. Herlln, howovcr, an
scrts thn Germans Imve mnrto Impor
tant gnlns.
Tho French Wnr Office statement Is
apparently confirmed In tho olllclal
statement from the German Wnr Of
fice. Uerlln claims further gains by
Sileulan regiments at I.c Mort Hotnmo
(I)cad Man Hill), nnd the enpture of
1023 French prisoners, nnd reports the
ropulso of four French counter-attacks.
Thcso gains, It Is apparent, aro those
mlmlttcd in tho French ofllclal state
ment, given out lust night. The Ger
mans did not return to tho attack last
night, tho French Wnr Ofllce nssorts.
Paris dispatches confirm tho report
that Gormans attempted to encircle
Hethlncourt and Lo Mort Homme (Dead
Man Hill), after 30 hours' artillery
preparation. Roth positions arc firmly
held by tho French, tho French AVar
Ofllce announces, as well ns tho village
of Cumleres, cast of Dead Man Hill.
In announcing that tho French hold
"the southern edges of Cumleres AVood,"
tho I'nrls Ofllce, however, admits for tho
first tlmo that tho Germuns have re
captured a portion of the forest and nil
of Corbcaux Woods.
French counter-attacks, Paris reports,
recaptured positions taken by tho Ger
mans on Hill 203, tho northeastern spur
of Gooso Hill.
An English position near Xcuve
Chnppelle, with Its occupants, was blown
up by a mine, the German War Olllco
reports. Berlin also announces tho de
struction of two French aeroplanes
northwest of Verdun and ono English
biplane near Bapaumc.
BERLIN, March 15.
German troops have occupied the crest
P & 0. LINER BURNS AT SEA PASSENGERS SAVED
MARSEILIiES, March 1C The steamship Knntlak arrived hero
today with the passengers of the V. & O. liner Moron on board, the
Moreit having been nbundoneil by them on account of fire.
GERMANS TO CALL OUT BOYS OF 17
COPENHAGEN, Mnrch IS Tim QcnuRit War orfieo is preparing
to call to th a colors youths of 17 mid 18 nt the end uf the month,
It wns lcpoiletl heie today.
NATIONAL TUBE COMPANY PLANT TO BE ENLARGED
PITTSBURGH, March 15. Tho seamless tubo plant of tho National Tuba
Company, ut Klwood City, Ph., Is to bo enlarged. Announcement to this effect
was mado today by Judge lilhert II. Gary, chairman of tho Board of Directors
of tho United Stntcs Steel Corporation. Tho sum of $1(480,000 will bo expanded
on the Improvements, which will greatly Incrcaso tho capacity of tho plant.
PRICE OF QUICKSILVER REDUCED
NEW VOHK, March 15. The price of quicksilver has been reduced to $225 a
flask, a decline of $75 slnco March 1. The report la current In trado circles
that Great Britain will remove tho r'estrlctlpn on shipments of quicksilver from
Kuropc, thus releasing largo stocks held abroad.
FOOD RIOTS IN BULGARIA; STORES RAIDED
BUCHAREST, Mnrch ID Food riots havo started in Varna and Phlllp
popolls, Bulgaria. Stores wcro raided and foodstuffs seized.
"KILL THE AMERICANS"
State College Men Shovel Train
Out of Drifts 40-Mile
Gale Blowing
JOB FOR NEWSPAPER MAX
Elmer Schlichter Named Special
Ageit for Department of .Wharves,
Socks and Ferries
Elmer Schlichter, J6J1 North Hth
street, who for ten years has' been the
City Hall representative of the Evening
Bulletin, was today appointed to the po
sition of special agent of the Department
of Wharves, Pocks and Ferries. Tha
place carries a. salary of (1900 a yvar.
In making the appointment. Director
Webster mated that he wanted a. news
paper man for tb place, as the duties of
Umi office ara largely those of a. publicity
Wtuw. ,
SUN BURY, Pa., Mnrch 15. Central
Pennsylvania Is In the Rrlp of a fierce
blizzard which started early last night.
Snow Is falling and a 40-mlle-an-hour gale
Is blowing.
Railroad service on the mountain divi
sions of the Pennsylvania and Reading
Railroads Is crippled. Ravines and cuts
are filled with snow and miles of heavy
drifts were encountered between here and
Bellefonte.
State College students were marooned
on a train and helped to shovel It out,
A freak of the storm was a lightning
display In the heavens and thunder.
EL PASO, March 15. Francisco Villa
halted his outlaws eight miles from the
border to urge them on to butchery be
foro he led them to the massacro of Amer
icans at Columbus.
Villa rode out before his men and put
all the violence of his nature Into a fiery
denunciation of the Americans, Ho shook
his fists toward tho sleeping American
town while the curses fell from his froth
ing lips. As he roared out his Impreca
tions, his men, who had been worn out
by the long ride through the mountains.
became a hysterical pack of human wolves.
They flung themselves upon the ground,
sobbing and writhing at the feet of their
leader. As the outlaws wept and howled.
Villa spurred them on. Finally he paused.
There fell a silence as the men awaited
his next move.
Villa pointed to the lights of Columbus
twinkling in tho distance,
"Go and kill," he cried. "Kill the Amer
icans." With n shout, the men sprang to their
horses, and ar they spurred the Jaded an
imals forward thej shouted;
"Kill the Americans."
As they gu. nearer tn the town Villa
lilted his arm. Once more his men were
quiet and they began npproaching Colum
bus silently and cautiously.
The dramatic story of Villa's address
before the massacro was brought to the
border today by Edwin R. Spencer, a
negro scout, who has been attached to the
army for duty on the expedition. Spencer
saw the execution of the three American
ranchers, Williams, McKlnney and Cor-
Continued on Tare Two, Column Two
MAYOR'S SON-IN-LAW
GETS CITY JOB; HEAD
OF RESEARCH BUREAU
William S. Robertson Says
Civil Service Commission
Berth Has Nothing to Do
With Relationship
PLACE PAYS $1800 YEAR
WILL ARREST BOYS FOUND "HITCHED ON BEHIND"
In tho hope of decreasing tho death toll nmonfr children who steal rides
on tho rear of wagons nnd other vehicles, Director of Public Safety "Wilson,
Superintendent of Police Robinson and Coroner Knight today authorized every
policeman In the city to stop any vehicle on which children aro riding In tho.
rear. The order gives nuthorlty 'to any policeman to stop any trolley car or
wagon on which children nro stealing rides and to arrest the offender and to
send them to the Houso of Detention If they nro under age. If tho offenders
nrc over 16 years of ago they will bo sent to tho nearest police station.
KAISER TO SELL HIS CASTLES
ROME. March 15. Press dispatches received today from Switzerland say
that the Kaiser has ordered tho salo of several of his castles In order to con
tribute the proceeds to tho now Gorman war loan.
DUTCH SHIP DAMAGED AT SEA; CAUSE NOT TOLD
LONDON, March 15. Tho Dutch steamship Jan Van Nassau, bound from
New York to Rotterdam, today signaled tho wireless station at tho Ubard thaE"
sho had been damaged at sea, but tho nature of tho accident was not given.
Tho Jan Van Nassau is a now A-ossel of 3330 tons, In tho Holland-American trade.
AUSTRIA DECLARES WAR ON PORTUGAL
ROME, March 15. Austria has declared war on Portugal, according to dis
patches received hero today. Dispatches from Genova Bay Austria has recalled
her Minister to Lisbon nnd has handed tho Portugucso Minister his passports.
BRANDEIS GOT 225,000 FEE IN OLD DOMINION CASE
WASHINGTON, March 14. Louis D. Rrandels recolved $225,000 as his fee
from tho Old Dominion Copper and Smelting Company, so Charles S. Smith,
president of the Old Dominion Company, told tho Senate Investigating Com
mittee today. He added that directors of the company believed they had got
their money's worth.
Mayor Smith's Four
Personal Appointments
Continued en Tate Flte. Column One
LA PRIMA FASE DELLA
BATTAGLIA DI G0RIZIA
La Lotta Si Riaccende Con Un
Importante Successo Itali-
ano a San Martino
THIEVES CUT WIRES;
"OWL" TRAIN DELAYED
Con la loro vlolenta offens(ya, vlolenta
speflalmente nel settore compreso tra II
Sabotlno e I'altlpiano dt Doberdo'. gll Ital.
lanl hanno Inlzlato ormal la battaglia dl
Corlzla. La lotta si e' accessa in par
ticular modo vlgorosa tra 11 vlllaggto dl
San Martino ed II Monte San Mlchele. a
sud dl Oorlzla, dove la brlgata Reglria for
mata del regglmentl dl fanterla Ono e iOmo,
lanclata ad un assalto alia balonetta dopo
una terrlblle preparazlone dl artlgllerla,
ha connulstato una forte trlncea austrlache
che formava II perno della dlfesa dl quella
zona. SI tratta probabllmente della quota
197, nelle vlclnanze dell Chlesa dl San
Martino,
San Martino e uua frazlone Sagrado,
ma ha importanza speclale perche' vl
passa la lines, delta trincee nemlche e
perche' dl U" si sale al San-Mlchele dove,
nonoatanle che gll Itallanl abblano occu
pato tre dells quattro somnlta' principal).
esUte tuttora una formidablle serle dl
trincee bllndate e murate.
(Leggere In 7a paglna le ultimo e pljtf
dettagllate notlzle sulla guerra, In ital
lanoX House Debates Sugar Bill
WASHINGTON. March 15. The House
this afternoon took up for consideration
the, sugar bill, which continues the pres
ent duty of 1 cent a pound, which auto
matically expiree May I under the Under
wood tariff but No limit was set on the
debate, 'but it la expected to be flnlshed
tomorrow. The present tax net ta Gov
ernment 1,,(IO,000 yearly.
Newtown Division Signal Sys
tem Crippled Detectives
Seek Robbers
The signal system pf the Newtown
Division of the Philadelphia and Read
ing Railway was crippled and a theatre
train, crowded with passengers, was
obliged to proceed at a snail's pace with an
advance guard of detectives, after thieves
had slashed 1200 feet of wire between
Walnut Hill and Valley Falls.
Although the wire theft took place early
yesterday, It was not made known by the
Ablngton police until today, when they
arrested Louis White, who says he lives
In Philadelphia.
As soon as the train dispatcher at the
Reading Terminal discovered the break
he held up the "Owl" theatre train, which
left the terminal at -13: 10, and was head
ing toward the danger zone. The train
slowed down aa It neared Walnut Hill,
and, the conductor crawled out on the
cowcatcher to make observations. Ser
geant Ferguson and Policeman Nice, of
Ablngton, and several railroad detectives
preceded the slowly moving train for a
distance of two miles to Valley Falls.
The policemen and detectives were
equipped with pocket lampj. and they
searched the underbrush along the track.
Passengers were .mystified by the pro
ceeding, but the crew pf the train refused
to give any explanation.
White was found hiding In a barn a
short distance from th seen of the wire
robbery. He gave two addresses In Phil
adelphia, which the police iy are flo-
uuma. o AeiBgion pouce, witti rail
road dttecjive. art today eearcalng the.
neighborhood for othr-' raen believed to
Uvt beta impllaatui U tsi robbery.
Dr. Wilmcr Krusen. Appointed
Director of the Department of Pub
lic Health nnd Charities. Family
physician to Smith family. Salnry
$10,000.
Joseph C. Smith. Appointed pri
vate secretary to Mayor. Mayor
Smith's brother. Salary $6000,
Herman Smith. Appointed dis
trict elevator inspector. No rela
tive to Mayor, although same sur
name. Employed as butler in
Mayor's Glenside home. Salary
$1000.
William S. Robertson. Appoint
ed chief of investigation and re
search of Civil Service Commission.
Job just created by Councils.
Mayor's son-in-law. Salary $1800.
Total salaries of Mayor's per
sonal appointees, $18,800.
SNOW DRIFTS 35 FEET HIGH IN NEW YORK STATE
ROME, N. Y March IB. Snow from four to five feet deep covers a big
urea, of central New York as the result of a storm which has lasted several
days. At somo places In tho Adlrondacks drifts aro 35 feet high.
GOEBEN LANDS GUNS AT TREBIZOND
ATHENS. March 15. Tho Turkish cruiser Sultan Sollm, formerly tho Ger
man cruiser Goebcn, nccordlng to Nea Hellns, has succeeded In eluding the Rus
sian Black Sea fleet and landed a nuniber of German officers nnd guns at Tre-
blzond.
TWO AIRMEN OF CITY VOLUNTEER FOR U. S. SERVICE
Two expert Philadelphia aviators have volunteered tholr s6rvice3 to th
War Department to nsslst In tracking Villa through Mexico. They are Harvey
Wilbur Kays and Ilaldeman von FIgyelmcssy, both of tho Aero Club of
Pennsylvania,
Ji'Kl'nTISM (ucp-o-tlim). n. Favoritism
hotvn to nephemt and othir relative: be
aloivil or patronage by reason o( relationship,
rather than of merit
"Krnm neiiotlam Alexander V waa aaffl, for
he waa without kindred or relatltea." &lllman.
l-.ilSTKK'ei Jn'KW INTKItNATlO.VAl, DIC
TIONARY. William S. Robertson, son-in-law of
Mayor Smith, has been appointed chief
of the Bureau of Investigation and He
seare'i of the Civil Service Commission
by the Mayor,
This became known today. The posi
tion was created by Councils several
weeks ago. The appointment came soon
thereafter, although until today nothing
but City Hall gossip indicated that Rob.
ertson would be the new chMf In the
new office, which paya $1800 a Vear,
Robertson will take charge of the new
bureau tonight, to begin his duties tomor
row. Four weeks ago he was appointed
acting special examiner for the commis
sion. Prior to that he was engaged In
the- roofing business with hlti brother.
James O. Robertson, a contractor, of 6376
Gerraantown avenue.
Robertson married Miss Ruth Smith,
the Mayor's daughter, a year ago. Their
home, Is at 10$ West Cliveden avenue,
German town.
Rumors In City Hall were confirmed by
Robertson today, when he was asked
about the reported appointment.
'Yes and no." he replied when asked
If be were related to the Mayor.
"Are you a nephewT" he was asked.
"NephewT No! I'm his eon-ln-law."
waa the reply. "And I'm a good friend
of the Mayor But my appointment has
absolutely nothing to do with my relation
ship with the Mayor- I presume that I
waa appointed because I possessed the
necessary qualification. I intend to get
into harness at once to aerve thy com?
Ceatlase4 rnttw. Culiuaa Fear
DISABLED MUNITIONS SHIP CONTINUES VOYAGE
NEW YORK, March lb. The steamship Zealandla, of the Federal For
warding Company, reported In trouble, is proceeding on her way following slight
dlfllculty with tho steering gear. Captain Barlow reported today in a wireless
messago to the company's offices. Tho Zealandia gave her position as 880 mllea
from New York bound to Malta. She Is laden with munitions for the British,
AUSTRIA SAYS ALLIES TORPEDOED UNARMED SHIPS
WASHINGTON. March 15. The Austrian Embassy here today filed a. formal
memorandum with the State pepartment, nlteglng that the Entente Allies' sub
marines had torpedoed two unarmed Austrian passcngersteamslilps without
warning. The vessels wero tho Daniel Erno and the Zagreb. The attacks
occurred In the Adriatic. Tho Austrian statement said that both vessels escaped
by skilful maneuvers. Officials at the State Department Indicated that no action
would bo taken by this Government, as it Is not concerned.
WILL NOT ABANDON PLATTSBURG CAMPS
Military training camps will be held this summer at riattsburg according
to schedule, despite the report published in New York to the effect that the
camps would be abandoned due to shortage of ofllcers. The Military Training
Capip Association, composed of Philadelphlans who have taken the course at
Plattsburg. an announcement to this effect today, after being- assured by General
Scott. Chlef-of-Staff, V. s. A., that the camps would be held during the summer
months from May to August.
NEW REVOLUTION IN CHINA
WASHINGTON, March 15. New revolutions ha,v? broken out In China,
according to dispatohes received at the Navy Department today from Admiral
Wlnterhalter. commanding the Asiatic fleet. Rebels, he reported, are planning
an attack In force, on Lughow and fighting Is In progress In the provinces pf
Chlchlang and Hunan.
BRITISH CRUSH REVOLT IN EGYPT
LONDON, March 15. According to an official dispatch from Cairo, mad;
public here, the revolt of the Senussl on the western frontier of Egypt has coair 4- -pletely
collapsed. "Our forces under Major General Peyton," the. dispatch aayst?? '
"will occupy Solium (the putpost on the Tripoli frontier, evacuated last fall wb !
tho Senussl went on the warpath) today. The Senussl camp 4 W'Sead is n, '
ported unoccupied and no opposition Is expected. The Bedouins who elected to
join forces with Beyyld Ahmed (the Arab rebel leader) ar demoraUawd and Buf
fering greatly from hunger and disappointment Th Shtik iUnxa at 2rt$ .
Jlarun, east of Mersa Matruh (where the Seoussi were, rut4 r Uw Brtttafe In
January) has, surrendered and U ta"eur camp. T head ,aea o th 4uJad AM
tribes Are asking fo? pardon. '
i
vi
fi
ill
m
