JI
KRUPP PLANT DAMAGED
IN AIR RAID
Snow and colder to-nlghtj Thursday probably cloudy.
cdtov
u Circulation Hooka Open io All." "Circulation Books Open to A1L"
PRICE ONE CENT.
t npjrlnlil, I II I II, l,j Tli I'rrta I'ublblilng
I n. (The .Not Yurk Wurlill.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1916. 16 PAGES PRICE ONE CENT.
pWML
ft
U. S.
BOMBS DROPPED ON ESSEN, !
ON GUN WORKS AT GLADBACH
AND ON THE CITY OP MUNEH
1 !
London Reports Long Expected Air
Raids on Great German Muni
tions Plants, 170 Miles North of;
the French Lines at Verdun. i
LONDON, March 15. Allied aviators have raided Essen, home of
the Krupp gun works, according to dispatches received to-day from Am
Btcrdam. Other air squadrons arc said to have attacked Munich, capi
tal of Bavaria, and the city of Gladbach.
Six sheds at Essen arc reported to have been destroyed.
The nens aroused great enthusiasm hero. Since the beginnin:; of
(he war aeronautic experts have been urging a great allied aerial raid on
the Krupp works at l:ssen, which lies about 170 miles north ot the
J-'rench lines at Verdun.
The Germans arc known to have taken great precautions to guard
against air raids both on Bsen and on Gladbach, about l.fa miles south
vest ot lisscn, uhcic German machine guns and munitions arc manu
factured in large quantities.
It reports of the air raid on Munich are continued, the aviators
l:ae made one of the kmget bomb-dropping expeditions of the war.
Munich lies nearly 25o miles cast of the I-'reuch lines in upper Alsace.
The city of Gladbach Is also known an Muonchcn-Gladbach. The Cor
man name ot Munich Is "Muenchen." It Is pcwslblo that the Amsterdam
cablra to I.ondon meant to nay that tho cities of Kssen anil Muenc.hen
Gladbach, within n few miles of each efther, wore raided, but the translation
to KiikUhIi and the cute tratiMiilBsIon inado tho ma-sages read ".Mnnlcli
nnd Glndslacli."
French on the Offensive,
Regain Trenches Near Verdun
PAIMS, March IS. According to the1;
War Ufflco reports to-dny tho French
have turned io tho nccrcsslvo In tho
dcaperato struggle now In progress
northwest of Verdun nnd hao recap
tured a part of the ground sained by
th German In tho renowal of their
drlvo west of tho Mcuso.
Yesterday, In n. two-nnd-a-half-bour
bottle, the Crown Prince's armies, by
delivering massed attacks, succeeded
In gamine a footing in tho Trench
llnei at two points between Hothln
court nnd Dead Mnn'a J 1111. tho domi
nating height which Is tho immediate
object of the present Gorman drive
jast night tho French launched i
heavy counter-attacks and by using
th bayonet and hand-grenades freolyi
'srn able to reenpturo portions of the
trenches the Germans had taken.
Tho Germans mado heavy sacrifices
In attempting to cut tho French line
and obtain possession of Dead Man's
Hill, Posbesslon of this height baa
enabled tho Trench
to sweep with i
their artillery tho territory over
which the Germans wero endeavoring
to advance against tho fortrehs. It
Is fctlll lu Trench hands, tho Trench
nill,. nnnnnnrrx. nlthollirh Ihm
- " -
German lino lias auvanceu souinwaru
until It now takes In nearly tho whole
of Curaleres Wood to the cast of tho
height. Tollowlng Is tho toxt of to-'
day's War Otllco report:
"To tha west of tho River Mcuso
ths enemy mado no further endeavor:
to advance last night.
"Along our front between Itethln -
court nnd C'umtercs counter-attacks
at tho bayonet nnd with hand grcn-
des mado It posslblo for us to rcoc
UM : ' ... ,,., ,. ,
cupy a ponton ot ine ircncncs vup-
tured yesterday by tho enemy In the
direction of IIIU No. :C5.
w now hold llothlncourt tho
Wa now noia uotnincourj.
(Continued on Klghta Pag.
TROOPS
ILL FEELING
i
CIV ILOUCC dPNflU
ulA HlUll-0 UT 0 11 U W
BY TO-MORROW'S OAWN
Thermometer ill Also Take a Uig
Drop, Says the Weather
Man.
The snow storm and northeast galo
predicted by tho Woather Uuroau for
this afternoon carao with u rush
soon aftor noon. A fall nf six Inches
before to-morrow morning l.i pro.
dieted.
Tho tcmneraturo began to fall (nun
af(or daylight. Tho thermometer
registered twenty-nlno degiees al 10
o'clock nnd was falling rapidly. A
tempomturo of slxtoen degrees was
fortold for ilaj light to-morrow, -with
clearing skies und a shift of tho gale.
to tlm northwest.
Tho low temperature at tho sur
faco of tho earth caused the rain
and sleet of the morning to frieze
"'-'" UU making pavements
giusny auu i.ui.iuiK coiimaiu ucmor
ullzntlon of rail transportation, es
pecially where, power lulls wero ex
posed to tho storm.
Heavy snow falls wero report od
'"" '"" """.".' """
rrom wio AuirouiiacKs, northern
1'ennsyivauia ami mo souinern .Now
yrlc counties nnil Ohio.
U( I CT.IIP RY II HflATQ
lU LCI Ul U I U 0111101
BERLIN ANNOUNCES
i LONDON', March 13.-Acrordlng to
' an olllclal statement mado In Herlln,
all rumors regarding tho canreil.i.
, Hon of the postponement f .
tensified sub.iiarino . amp., vn against
armed merchantmen, as announced
( ln tho fiol.ni niemori.e ' .1111 tO lll.U-
r:ln last month, an i rruo.
Thero has been no postponement, .
I nm 'ibandoninent of tho campaign
wa3 never considered. On tho con
trary, tne statement snya, it is now 1
in full swing. ....
ANGRY COMMUTERS
HELD UP FOR HOURS
ON L I. TRAINS 1
Nunc Detained in Dark Tunnel
With Smoking Linsiue !
Adding to Woes.
j III JICTRIC POWER OFF.
All Trains Operated From
Third Rail re Therefore
Abandoned.
Tho f'fpt. storm whl-h p-crnled
this afternoon's miow p.irnlyzol the
luig Island Uailroad's clociiic st
vice. Tho road struggled hnrd to
keep trains under headway A train
leaving Port Washington . 7 tbl
morning lonrhfid l tin p nn.yiwii'
toniiiii.il. after being pinned i i tuo
Long Island City mouth "f tho Kntt
Itlver tunnel, n llttlo nfiei- -.op
That was about th" Inst.
The power wt jdiut if ,r I m I
tending pasenger. were in' ncd j
thnt all sorvlie was nbandem. 1 Mir 11
furl In c iii.t !. I
"There may be mimf in -i few
hours," was the only promi-o i.'ide
by General Pn.K.eiigcr Age.H i-'riith
at ! o'clock this nfu moon.
Klectrlc trains full of commuters
on their way to work wero held up
all morning because freezing of rain
nnd ftleet on the power rails stalled
tho motors. An livening World em
ployee was held for two hours In the
dark tunnel olio hundred yards west
of the Nostrand Aonuo station
"I got on tho train from Jamaica
at liullroad Avenue at S no o'clock,"
ho Mild. "Wo wero duo at l'latbush
Aicntio at 8.10. Tho train simply
rrawlotl along and Mopped every fow
moments.
"Hut 100 yards west of Mostrand
A vi n no we Mopped short and the
IghlM went out. There wo sat in tho
dark. Tho crew would not let any
ono off.
A Jocomottvo pushing a train was
Mailed alongside, of us nnd the coal
gas from tho engine was stifling,
"After two hours they said we
might get out. It was dark In tho
tunnel nd wo walked 100 yards
along tho slippery tics, with nn elec
tric rail on each Mdo of us.
"I don't Know wliat happened to tho
women passengers. 1 didn't sen one
on the way out.''
An olllclal statement was Issued
at tlm Pennsylvania I'.ailro.id main
otlli o in West Thirty-third .Street ex
plaining that tho Long IHand electric
transportation was crippled because
rain falling in a temperature three
degrees below freezing had coated
tho clectrlo power rails with Ice.
vmruu cituisKM io w.ulmi.u ci.imm
pirn aU uuYatiio at Tii Uorll Irate ilufitL
An ad.
imiitj iuriii nujaiDg, ui OJ l'4ri
Ituw. S ,
The Best Barometer
Of Industrial conditions, according
to I c ill i ii authorities, are Tlia
World's Help Wantid Advertise,
incnts, An increase in the number ol
these ads. Is accepteu as a hopeful
sign of prosperous tunes. They
prove the demand for more help
means Increased orders for the manu
facturer, and Increased orders front
the latter means the ; ople arc buy
ing Iruni the sines. Yesterday 'I lie
World printed 3,3'Jl separate Help
Wanted Ads., wl.ich was I.8S8 more
than th
wui rcai'ijuuiui: uiv ui .iir
tir. 'lli.i Is a sure InJicjtliin hil
husin:s Is impruvint: lucid U ly'i
t ni icht hi mfntiuial that nn ilnn.
1,,, t .i-r.i... . .11 ,1, ..in. 1
uu. jwitiMa; ... o najiiumiiuiis u
printed l,06o more ads, thin !! the
six other morning newspapers added '
tojctlwr,
START FOR
Applicants in Line for Enlistment
At a Branch Recruiting Office
CHEERS FILL IROOM
AS EXONERATED
Court Hiiuls Hornier W.iuk'ii!
of Sinjj Sing Did "i !
Commit Perjnr .
i?;lil to T!i KirnUf WctH.i I
WHITE PLAINS, N. Y., March 13.
Tho trial of Thomas Mott Osborne,
on a chargo of perjury, came to a
sudden end hero, this morning, when
Supreme Court Justlco Arthur B.
Tompkins dismissed tho Indictment
against him, on the ground that Btato
Prison Commissioner Iludolph T.
Oledllng was unauthorized when h"
conducted the Inquiry at which It was
alleged Mr. Osbotno KWurn fub-Hy,
Helng unauthorized, tho t'ourt held,
Commissioner Dledllng was not com
petent to administer tho oath.
Justice Tompkins also held Mr. Os
boine was not shown to lime wilfully
lied to Commissioner Dledllng. Tho
dismissing of tho Indictment will not
Interfere with tho other Indictments
Assistant District Attorney Weeks
said
Immediately after Justice Tompkins!
lead his decision, embracing over a h a plant, preferably under the
thousand words, ho dlrecttd a verdict 'Klniinlstratloii of the N.ixy Depart
of acquittal bo found and ordered the no I'L Mr. IMIson said, would make
dlschargo of Mr. Osborne. A Rroat ' iperimonts to htandanllze inits for
crowd of friends and adherents of tho submarines or aeroplanes. Tint llov
formor Warden ln tho court room 1 ernmcnt would distribute these, stan
started to cheer and a wild rush w as I durdized parts to manufacturers. The
mado for him.
Social workers, society women and
cx-convlcts Joined In tho applause and
ineu io crowu arounil .Mr. u?Dorne.
Mihtlco Tompkins rapped j-harply for
order and directed tho atti nlants to
1 1...
.tl -i II.. -v..,
' ..... ... . ......
uiiiiui uaut ij. ilia 9ituii
ru." l"Vr"" ' ,
"cat!l' Thcy wc, lht'n l"''-nilt!d t'i
;,ml an Informal recei.tnn was i.fl.i.i
. -
Among thoso who gathered about
(Continued on Ktfbth Puee.)
tOWS IN
FIFTEEN DAYS
Achievement Possible With
Fully Equipped U. S. Labora
tory, I le Tells Congressmen.
WASIIINOTOV, M i r r n 1 "..
Thomas A. IMisou told Ihu Iloiiso
Naval Committee to-day that with a
fully equipped Tedn.tl research la.
tioratory nnd standardization of ma
chine parts It Htibm irlno could bo
built In fifteen days. H said tho
I'nlted Stated should appropriate lib
er. Ilv for such n liboiatory, as
recommended by tho Naval Advisory
Hoard of civilian expnts.
Inventor wild that tn distribution he
would favor tho small factoiy In the
t '
heciitlifi) In larger cltv
t.ll' III .U )lO tl(lMf-llt tL'f. i fill.
,,,, tl a.i., r iin in ie.1 t.ii
! . r.ii laboratory, he b.iI., mull b.
i''i "!,'"" woildtu: ! i .i f'
f i "'
,.
I ' '" "ixentor mid thai with stnnd-
inii nc, f m n ... t I,.
- .il.l. "i pioduco u s'll.in.irii.e w.thln
' ry ,s""" "r .". alw.ijs Keep ahead
,r nuier ri now, to Kcon hi ad-
H inro or 1I1 vi lopment." .Submarine
,n,d .0 roplane engines, ho said, should
be especially studied.
EDISON CAN BUILD
A SUBMARINE IN
in U. S. Army
on Third Avenue
HEALYITES WIN
I RIGHT TO PARADE
ST. PATRICK'S DAY
I Justice Greenbaum Refuses to
Grant Injunction Against
Coroner's Faction.
Coroner Timothy Healy and his
faction to-Jay won out In tha Su
premo Court proceedings brought
against them to prevent their parad
ing on'Tlfth Avenue on St. Patrick's
Dvy.
Justice (ireonbaum denied two mo
Hons mndo boforo htm, either of
which would have preventod ha
! Ilcalyltes from marching in honor of
Ireland's patron aalnt .
Tho first motion made lieforn Jus
tice Creenbauui by J. Powers !on
nellan, acting as attorney fur Hodcrlc
J. Kennedy, County President of the
Ancient Order of Hibernians, was an
application for nn Injunction to re
strain tho Ilealy faction from holding
the St. Patrick's Day parade,
Tho other motion was for a writ of
mandamus to compel Police Commis
sioner W'iKidM to i evoke the parade
permit ho hud Issued to tho lleulyltes
a month ago.
Tho decision does not deprive tho
Kennedy faction of tho right to pa
rade but holds that tho "regulars"
may not parade on the same street
at tho smio time namely, Tlfth Ave
nue at i P. M. Trld.iy. This was ex
plained in the brief opinion by the
i Court In denying tho application for
writ of m.ti'.il.imus to compel .Com
IIU'.SIOIIC" mill to ri VOK" HOI perilli! or lien, i .u-
given to the Ilealy faction nnJ re, ssto ' Tlm storb liioiighi tueii t.ie In
. i.. ti i;..nnI..iv fn. iinn 'eiio. of .Mi Mcu by Aincrli.in refu-
1. 1.. i. ....,. ii..... ,
in. u umii'' m nurii i hi- tif-uiy 11 nil 1
the Ki tniedy fa. tions nro.10 ovev tin
a itsp) n ilon of tiio Coroner and about
llftv-llvo other members from the An-
(Continued on Htcood Pt )
VILLA
MEXICO
ADVANCE FROM Tl POINTS
WS BORDER REPORTED
iU GENERA
Gen. Rojas Assassinated Trying to
Pacify Mutinous Troops at Border
Who Wanted to Invade U. S.
American Consul Quits Torreon.
PERSHING QUITS COLUMBUS;
DODD MOVES FROM HACHITA
DOL'lil.AS, Arte., Mau-li 15. Authoritative information was re
ccivcil .it Cnmp Douglas to-J.iy that a division of the American expe
dition had MarteJ from Ctilhertson's Ranch for the .Mexican border.
The Second Cavalry, commanded by Col. George A. Dodd, was
stationed at Culberson's Knnch, which is at Machita, N. M and has been
ready fur a quick move.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Marci 15. Major Gen. b'unston admitted
this afternoon that it was possible an advance had been .made by United
States troops iutn Mexico and that he had not been told of it. He said
that it au movement had taken place it probably was near
I Machita, N. M.
lit. PASO, March 1 5. Through
sorship conies the news that United States cavalry probably moved into
Mexico at two jviiiits early to-day, and that while Carranza Generals and
other commanders arc apparently desirous of obeying the orders of the
Hrst Chief and aiding our soldiers, the rank and file of the Carrania
forces in Northern Mexico is unruly and resentful.
Col. Rojas, Carranza commandant at Ojinaga, on the border about
I2.i miles southeast of here, was shot and killed by his own men last
night. Ojinaga is across the Rio Grande from Presidio, Tex., where
United States troops are quartered.
A lot of Col. Rojas's men mutinied and broke camp with the' inten
tion of crossing the border and attacking Presidio. Col. Rojas gamely
sought to quell the mutiny, but was shot at from several directions and
fell riddled with bullets. The assassination of the commander had the
effect of sobering the soldiers and the raid they contemplated did not
take place.
Uneasiness In military ctrclci here arise from the confirmed report
from Torreon that tho Atnerlcan Consul, A. I Wllllums, has turned orer
tho consulate to tho llritlsh Vlou Consul and U either on tho way or pr
parlnK to go to Monterey with between forty nnd fifty Americans.
It Is known hero that Consul Williams has not been notified by th
Government to Icavo and his sudden plans for departure with nil the Ameri
can resident of tho lty Is an Indication, It Is belleve'd horo, Uiat tho Car
ratua commanders In that vicinity aro doubtful about their ability to glTt
protection to cltkona of the United States. Torreon Is about 450 mllt
southeast of hero and about half way on tho road to Mexico City.
TROOPS REPORTED MOVING FROM TWO POINTS.
Authentic reports from tho 1ordcr stnto that United State troopa broke
tump at two location last night nnd were In full marching order, xtoAj
for tiie advance Into Mexican territory before daylight to-day.
One n oort fro n Doming, N M., this morning said that troops under
(ion John .1 Penciling, h-ader of the expedition, had moved across tho bor
der from CilumbiiH at - lit) o clock this morning. Another reiort said that
lien. PerMnng'H ciinip had be"it broken anl that the expedition was ready
to tnovo at n moment' nitlce.
There seemed tn U' no roafon to doubt that Gen. Pershing's "flylnit
column" of 2,noo nien would b well into Mexico thU evening.
Itepoits are current of serious dls-'?
affect, on among the Carranza soldlen
tn
the nelghboi hood of tiie Arizona
b(irdei,1 wlio .no under the command
! apes ki rvnl to confli :n the liiu iciia Ion
that at lets .1 sevtinn or nm rar
r.in.i soldi) 1 y wem far fiom tin
I friendly to Ilia and wero decidedly
hosUlo to tho American expedition.
lUfugeci told of being Insulted and
3
SLAIN
the barriers of a strict military cen
cursed by soldiers they encountered
in their (light, but no act of physical
Violence has been reported. r
I'liioiighout the morning there werp
luni dl.iii.eiiiig rumors which ar
l.cla.ed to !ia been unfounded. One
! was
that Carraiulsta troops crowed
tt'u h irdT and captured Hachlta, N.
M. Another wim that a train carry
ing American troops had been blown
up near Hachlta. Still another was
that a train carrylnt; army auppUej
I
k. to t
