Vt?> - _______________
WEATHER- ^ ^ /*v ' l_l' "From Prett to Home !
arMw*! fYh*> 4r ti rHttttit ssst^vir 0 ??*.*?- i
i?ej UwK XJU^IUIIU Slilf. :
(.|()!i,s(; >EH YORK STOCKS PAGE 18. ^ L?/ 1*1-* D,"? ASOJMt ' ' T. ST.4M.
=^20^58! WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY^ MARCH 15, 1916.-TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ONE CENT.
?OF 120,000
GETS SENATE 0.t
ACTION IS PROMPT
Unanimously Approves Emer
gency Resolution Adopted
Yesterday by House.
\
GOES TO PRESIDENT
FOR HiS APPROVAL
Senator Gronna Only One at First
Disposed to Delay Consideration.
DEPARTMENT MOVES QUICKLY
Steps Taken to Begin Xecruiting.
and No Trouble Is Anticipated
in Getting Desired
Force.
?
immediate increase of the
..tanding army to 120.000 men
was authorized today by the Senate.
which unanimously approved
the emergency resolution for that
purpose adopted yesterday by the
''olisc. The resolution now goes!
to the President for~approval.
\\ hen \\or<i tiiiit the Senate had
tdopted the resolution reached the
War Deparment. tlte adjutant
generals office tiw.k steps to begin
recruiting tlte additional men
immediately. Instructions were
prepared tor recruiting officers
throughout the I'nited States to
conduct an active campaign.
There is no intention at present.
it was made clear, to lower
the physical requirement- of recruits.
and War Department offic:al>
believe that the full number
of men will be available within a!
-hort time. More than 4S.000 men
who fully met these requirements.
it was pointed out, were
recruited last year without special
effort being made to obtain
them.
The roll of the Senate was
called at the rcuuest of Senator
?iallinjicr. the republican leader,
1:i ~aid that lit wished to deijii-tratc
to tbe world that there
< ere no political differences in j
the Senate when the needs of the
country were involved.
Immediately Considered.
The resolution was received by the
Seriate from the House immediately
.fter the session opened today. Recognizing
the fact that the resolution was
an emergent-v measure, requested by
tbe President and the Secretary of War.
t'? aid in handling the Mexican situa- j
? t ?p. the senators agreed to its immetl
:iie consideration.
The resolution was laid before the'
Senate at the request of Senator t'hainb'-'lain
of Oregon, chairman of the
n i;tar\ affairs comrnittee i
Senator tironna of South l>akota was
I. ? !jiied at first to object to the imir.e'i
a te consideration of the resolution,]
saying that while he did not know that
1 ? would oppose the resolution, he de-j
?. ed to look into it.
Senator P'hamberlain explained that j
trie Senate military affairs committee
bad examined tbe resolution and au- '
thorixed him to report it unanimously, |
f and to ask for Its immediate consbl- !
eration. H*- said that its purpose was
to permit the President to increase the
regular army by about 20.000 men. He
said that some of the regiments and 1
companies were now merely skeletons,
and that they should be increased as .
quickly as possible to full strength.
witnaraws uojection. i
After Senator Hallinger, the repub-;
liran leader, and S*-riator? Warren arid
ilu Pont. republican members of the1
military affair- committee, had joined
in the request that, the resolution be
considered ? i'hout fuither delay, Senator
Gronna withdrew his objection to
imniediate consideration.
An amendment was offered by Senator
Hoke Smith of Ceorgia providing'
| that the enlistments made under the
resolution should be for two years with
the colors and that the last two years
k of the four-year enlistment term
p should be in the reserves
I believe that if this amendment
? ere adopted the enlistments would he
:/ ade much more quickly," .-aid Senator
Smith He added that he was strongly
;11 favor of shortenifig the term of
enlist men!"I
am against long-term enlistments
and against making men permanent
soldiers." be -aid 1 think trial we
j ought to prepare the men while .-till
\ soldiers for a return to private life 1
will not press this amendment now.
however, if it will delay the passage of
the resolution In any way.''
Senator Smith Agrees.
Senator du Pont expressed the opinion
that thf matter of shorter enlistments
would come up in the Senate when the
general at my bill was reported within
the next few days. He suggested that
Senator Smith allow the matter to go
over until that time. This Senator
South agreed to do
Senator Vardaman of Mississippi told
the Senate he was much in favor <>f
the proposal of Senator Smith of
i! Vleprgia.
j "I am opposed to the enlargement
I of the regular arm\," continued S?*i.h
tot Vardaman "Hut I favor this reso^
lutiOB? and hope it will pasa without
^ delay. The President and the Secretary
of War have said that they need
these extra men to meet the emergency
which has arisen."
Senator New lands of Nevada dis(Continued
on Sixteenth Page >
A
IS H?[D NOT GUILT'
OF PERJURY CHAR!
| Court at White Plains, N.
Directs Jury to Acqui
Thomas M. Osborne,
| NOT JUSTIFIED IN FIND'NI
WILLFUL LAW VIOLATI
' Former Warden of Sing Sing S
to Face Accusations in Anothe
Indictment.
WMITK PLAINS. X.
March 15.?Thomas Mutt <
borne, prison reformer. Ilarv
i^ratiiwK'. twice mayor ot .Mint
X. V.. and former warden of S
was acquitted of {lie cha
i of perjury by direction of Jusl
Arthur S. Tompkins to a jury
the supreme court here today.
Justice Tompkins, in a lone: opin
held that Dr. Rudolph Diedling, a s'
prison commissioner, was without
thoritv. under the state prison 1
when he investigated. single-han<
Osborne's administration of Sing S
It was before Dr. Diedling that
borne, last October, committed the
leged perjury by swearing, as than
that he was without knowledge of <
tain cases of immorality.
Ruling' by the Court.
Justice Tompkins held there was
perjury committed by Osborne, ir
much as the warden had the right
keep inviolate the pledges given c
victs who had confessed their immoi
ity to him.
To make out the crime of perjt
the court held, it must appear t
false testimony was knowingly
willfully given by Osborne under oat
"The jury would not be justified
finding a willful intent or purpose
the part of the defendant."' he s
"His refusal to answer and his evai
replies were to keep good the prou
he had made to the men when t
confessed to him their offenses and
ceived theii punishment under pri
management, namely, that they wc
Mot he subject to further punishm
therefor, and that he would go to
rather than betray their confidence
Just'ce Tompkins held further t
"there can he no perjury unless
proceeding in which the testimony
given is authorized by law. Ther't
no proof h^re that Dr. Diedling 1
authorized by law to conduct this
vestigation or administer a noath."
Not Ready for Second Trial.
When Justice Tompkins rende
his opinion and discharged the jt
George Gordon Battle, Osborne's ct
counsel, moved that the jury be k
in their seals and that the trial be
gun immediately of another ind
ment pending against Osborne, cha
ing neglect of duty and immoral
District Attorney Weeks said he t
not prepared to proceed with the ti
and the court held this dispute i
:>ot question for him to decide
dismissed the jury.
Mr. Battle announced that he wc
apply immediately for an order to si
< ause why Mr. Weeks should not br
t'ne second indictment to trial with
delay, while t'ne district attorney j
he would oppose vigorously the on
as his calendar was too busy for
case to be heard before April.
DUTCH SPINNERS BUT C0TT<
Deal Will Free 2.000 Balei Held
Overseas Trust.
S''HI EDAM, Holland, Alarch 15.
London.?Two thousand bales of Art
ican cotton, which were forwarded
a Philadelphia company and desti
for a Bremen firm, are about to be
leased from the Netherlands Overs
Trust embargo, under v.liich they h
been held here for months, owing
Oreat Britain's stipulation tiiat n
but Dutch industries would be perr
ted to receive them.
Dutch spinners, who are badly
need of raw material, have bought
consignment from the Bremen firm
a price 14" a bale in excess of the q
tatiori of the day.
New York Suffragists Lose.
AI.BAN'V. N. V. March IS??'Jubi
irig on the part of supporters of wot
suffrage, who thronged the capitol }
terday. was changed to disappointri
i last nigiit Karlv in the aftern
j the assembly. b\ a vote of 1 Off to
passed the bill designed to piovide
a suffrage i>f?-rendum at the 1 f* 17 e
tion. but six hours iatei announcem
\> .i s made that the senate judici
<o in in it t ? ?* had indefinitely postpo
action on the measure.
Hobart. Okla . Has $160,000 Fii
HOBART. <?kla , March 15.?Fire
i undetermined origin here early to
destroyed two blocks of buildings
I the business district, causing an e
i mated loss of $160,000.
: $200,000 Fire at Cape Girardea
I CAPE lilRAKIlEAf, Mo. March 1
Fire destroyed the Terminal and Hi'
, view hotels and other buildings 1
I today. ?ausirig a t wo-hundred-t fi
sand-dollar loss, tluests in both ho
fscaped.
. .
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate t
I Met at noon.
Adopted resolution for imnie
diate increase of the standinf
Hrandets judicial hearing: re
i | sumed.
Foreign relations ?-ommitte<
paid tribute to the late Senato
Shively of Indiana.
(rebate i esuinerl on public larnii
water power bill.
Senator Ashur?! ar|<ircsse?l Sen
;?te on government armor jilati
plant bill.
Hoiian
Met at noon.
Thomas A Kdiaon testifier! be
{ore the naval affairs committee
|>ebate?i urgent deficiency ap
; proprtation bill aggregating $3,
-tiO.HOO for 'taval, judiciary ant
j other urgent needs.
f FRENCH AT VERDUN
3E TURN ON GERMANS
v.. TO REGAIN GROUND
t
Crown Prince Wins Trenches
Only to Lose Them at Night,
J Is Paris Claim.
ON
THIRD STAGE OF BATTLE
ltmj IS REPORTED UNDER WAY
r
j Fighting for Possession of Dead
y Man's Hill Besults in Heavy
; )s.; Teutonic Losses.
urd j
irii. | l.OZO FRENCH ARE PRISONERS
in? .
rgc Berlin Report Claims Substantial
;ice\j German Successes in Engagein
1 ments West of the
River Meuse.
ion.j
au- LONDON, March 15.?The
a*. I-'pencil have turned to the acted.
. * "
ing. gressive 1,1 ,he desperate strugob
gle now in progress northwest of
Verdun. and have recaptured a
er- part of tlie ground gained by the
! 1 ierjnans in the renewal of their j
| drive west of the Meuse. Paris j
nn 1 announces todav.
ias- _ *
to! Yesterday, in a three-and-oneon"
I half-hour battle. the crown!
prince's armies, by delivering!
hat attacks, succeeded in j
and gaining a footing in the French
i in lines at two points between
aid. Bethincourt and Dead Man's hill.
'liae the dominating height which is ?
're1- the immediate object of the pres- t)l
son / ? ' G<
>ui(l cnt (icrman arivc. pi
i e n t i t h
-j*'1 French Infantry Attacks.
j ' vs
hat Rast night the French launched heavy Gl
the th
is'counter attacks and b\ using the bayonet vj
? :s!and hand grenades freely were able to P?
ivas 1 M
in- I recapture portions of the trenches the
Germans had taken.
The German made heavj sacrifices in
red attempting to cut the French line and
,ry> obtain possession of Dead Man's hill, er
ilef
ept Paris advices declare. Possession of this
be- height has enabled the French to sweep at
ict- with their artillery the territory over j**
1 which the Germans were endeavoring to
ity. b;
aas advance against the fortress. y
ial. It is still in P'rench hands, however. .
ah* ,H
irKl .the French war office announces, although b<
| the German line lias advanced southward j
tuld
ion- j until it now takes in nearly the whole of i ^
j Gum teres wood to the east of the height, j s\
Berlin Disputes French Claim. Xft
the The official Berlin report on the gain ?'
made by the Germans west of the ^
Meuse describes it as taking place
JR. "west of the Corbeaux wood and on m
the height of L.e Mort Homme <The
by Dead Mon). Xhip coincides with the
French verwoti4?of the fighting as to
the sector in which the Germans made p
via th^ir advance.
Berlin declares, however, that the | m
French counter attack, although re- j tii
b.v peated four times, failed to result in l|ji
ned any measure of success, and that the I
re. losses of the assaulting forces* were i 1
heavy . The Germans took 1,025 pris- j
:eas toners in this action. " ; D'
ave 1 j I.'
: to i Third Phase of Battle.
n/t- j PARIS. March 15. 2:30 p.m.?The re- at
; newal of the fighting west of the j ?(
in i Meuse. after three days' pause, is re- I d
' garded as heralding the opening of the..si
uo- | third phase of the battle for Verdun.
i The defenders ha\? profited by the pe- '
j riod of relative Inaction to strengthen
further the weak joints in their armor]
i?, and the\ await events with full confl- ;
id i - - di
nan """ " I sl
".Vow I know where I stand. I am
> e.- - | i ys '
liin( certain of final success," said (Jen. Peleni
| ' i *?
oon j tain, who is in charge of the French ^
30 I operations at Verdun, to Messrs. I.au
,f'/1 | raine and Pate, members of the chamIce
! , , ?
lent her of deouties. who have returned to j
ar> i Paris from an inspection of the supply 1
' arrangements at the fortress, and who 1 si
declare themselves edified by ail t hey !
e. !"
. of Lull in German Offensive.
day The (Jermans last night, after a day 1,1
in of hard fighting, made no further ag- j 111
'8,'~ giessive movement to the west of the ! si
Meuse. according to announcement a
made this afternoon by the French : J1'
war office. j w
5.? French counter attacks between ' hi
t'er- Bethincourt and Cumieres resulted in j
tere i the reoccupation of certain trenches p,
captured by the Germans yesterday, j \
Fiench troops still hold the height of VJ
____ Alort Momme.
The artillery exchanges have been
active between Bethincourt and Oumieres.
but elsewhere the night passed
with relative quiet.
The first appearance of the German j
infantry yesterday after the usual in- ;
tense bombardment occurred at 4
o'clock in the afternoon, and the fight- ! U
j ing lasted for three and one-half hours.
" I They attacked along the whole line I
* from Bethincourt to the crest of Cu- {
mieres. a distance of about four miles. |
Guns Do Fearful Execution.
J The heaviest fighting was around |
Head Man hill, the Germans debouch- j n;
g ine in masses from Corbeaux and other ft
smaller woods to I bo west. They^ were 01
obliged to cross open around, and a p;
well directed tire from the French did fli
fearful execution Among- them. Their 8i
ranks quickly filled up. however, and.
Mil hough they were stopped again, they a
ended by getting a footing in advanced 1,1
French trenches at two points. p'
Dead Man hill, which is now being con- '
tended for, is a fine artillery position, and lfc
" nothing more, Jh? military critics say, for P*
' it Is not joined t6 Anything. It is a
plateau whose base hi limited on its four 8t
faces by four ravines, and it rises ofrty at . 1
*
fc/5gNATi
j ,p_
;)?-> f L-:
) A I
-yf ^
J) /'\
e east, dominating there the present J
erman positions. The crown prince's '
an is evidently 10 make a breach in
ie French line between Bethinoourf and
ead Man hill to enable his troops to adince
in a southeasterly direction toward
lattancourt and envelop the French left
iere. while German forces from Regnelle
and Cumieres try to turn the French .
isitiorm between Cumieres and Dead
an hill.
French Official Statement.
The text of the official statement isie<r
today foltoerr:
"To the weet of the river Mouse the j
temy made no further endeavor to
Ivance laat night.
Along1 our front between Bethlncourt
id C'umleres counter attacks at the
tyonet and with hand grenades made
possible for us to reoccupy a por- .
on of the trendies captured yesterday i
. the enemy in the direction of Hill i
o. "65.
"We now hold Bethincourt. the (
iight of Aiort Homme, the southern
>undary of the wood of Cumieres and
:e village of Cumieres. 1
"The bombardment has continued
ith intensity in all this sector, and
ie fire of the enemy has been anvered
with energy by our artillery.
"There has been nothing of imporince
to report from the right bank ,
' the Meuse nor In the Woevre disict,
where the artillery exchanges , '
ive been intermittent. ; 1
"The night passed quietly on the re- i (
ainder of the front."
Berlin Announces Gains. f
BERLIN, March 15. via London, 3:50 ; j
m.?Important gains for the Ger- I ,
and in the Verdun fighting west of j
ie Meuse were announced today by !
, <
ie the war office. It is said the Gerans
pushed forward their lines west' '
' Corbeaux wood and on the height of J
e Mori Ilonime, capturing more than
MOO prisoners. J
The statement follows:
"Near Neuve Chapelle we blew ut?
i advanced defense position with the!
-cupants. British artillery directed
heavy fire on Lens.
"French artillery is verj active oppo- {
te our new positions near Ville aus I
r?is and opposite various sectors of the j t
hampagne. I ,
Strong Swinging Onslaught. 1
: t
"On the left hank of the Meuse <\"er- l
jn front) Sileslan troops. with a >
rong swinging onslaught, pushed for
aid their lines in the region west of ' !<>rheaux
wood on the heights of Le
oil Honune. Twenty-five officers and j '
ore than 1,000 un wounded men were f?
iptured. A counter attack, four times]
pealed, gave the French no success j
hat soever. They suffered very con- j
derable losses.
"On the right hank of the Meuse and j ?
i the eastern slopes of the hills artil- jj
ry on both sides kept up a bitter duel j.
ithout interruption.
"In the Voages the French undertook
uiuerotis small attacks with recoiled
tering parties, which were repulsed. ^
"North of Bapaume . Lieut. Leffers
lot down his fourth enemj aeroplane. *
British biplane. * Both near Vimv,
ortheast of Arras, and in the neigh- t
orhood of Sivry. on the Meuse north- .
st of Veidun. French aeroplanes were v
roight down." *
lUBMARiNE IN 15 DAYS i
IS FDISON'S FSTIMATF
rges Fully-Equipped Federal Re- ]
search Laboratory Before House
<
Committee. i
T
Thomas A. Edison told the House j
aval committee today that with a ,
illy equipped federal research lab- t
ratory and standardization of machine *
arts a submarine could be built in
fteen days. He said the United States
lould appropriate liberally for such
laboratory, as recommended by the '
aval advisory board of civilian ex- '
erts.
Such a laboratory, preferably under
le administration of the Navy Deirtment,
Mr. Edison said, would make '
cperiments to standardize parts for <
intnarines or aeroplanes. t
The government would distribute <
t hM
r>^
THROWN.
CONSUL AT TORREON LEAVES;
BRITISH AGENT ACTS FOR U.!
Forty Americans There Waiting to G<
Away Despite Promise of Protection
rruiii varrdiLM vuuuuaiiuci.
t
TORREOX. Mexico. March 15.?The American consul. A.
William-, has turned the American consulate at Torreon over to t
British vice consul. More than forty Americans are waiting h<
to leave on the train which has been held up tor a day by a wre
nn the Monterey road.
The Carranza officials - till maintain, in spite ot general fea
;hat the Americans are safe.
Sending His Family Out. | train are J. F. Albright. Or. Keren.
1 Kerlinger. Or. I'arr, Arniand Harms.
"We are gentlemen, anil Americans have t.ove. wife anil son: K. Meuseback i
no need to fear, as we will escort them i '.vile. .Sarrali Miner. .1. A. Hoquet. ,!c
>xer the border and gi?e them every pro- | Rls.-Ha.-ds. wife and son: J. Rohrbaeh
. , i??- H- Squires. R. H. Severn and w
reciion. no matter what happens. said | u jj Sturgeon. F. H. Stern. I. M.
3en. Francisco Gonzales today. ' mer, H. A. Wulf. Kdward Wulf t
He continued 'wife. Charles Wulf. Fred Wulf t
"I an, sending my family ou. on ,he I ??? "^Tliiams and "wtfeTor^SS
?ame train, which will carry an adequate . ..h . r?rreon
iscort. We are certainly not seeking iron- ttiiet and conditions normal.
>le with the Cnited Stales, and I hope j
natters will be satisfactorily arranged. m. r r-? ?* t
Vet. if worst ccmes t?? wcrst, we want to Washington Can no c Explain.
.ee'all Americans safely across the bor-j Slat<. department officials are puzz
Tiie newspapers in this vicinity bail nub- j b> the depaiture of < onsul \\ illia
lished tlie notes exchanged by the Car- from Torreon. Thev have given him
ranza and Wilson governments and j jnatru<.|ions to leave, and have no
Lelegrams explaining the object of the j .
Dunitive expedition, commenting edi- ; l>'->rts of auj disorders in that regl
ivhy a breach of relations between the j jiaVe some good reason for leavi
[ wo countries should be thought im- . ,
iniiient They are reluctant to believe that
Additional passengers on the refuge j consulate is in danger.
hese standardized parts to ma nufar- M 1 II rnAII linnftnARJI
urers. The inventor said thai in dis- MA hi/ M N|||||S| AM
ribution he would favor the small far- I f l/ll L I llUlfl MUUI\Unlf!
ory in the small town, because in
I RFMDWn AT FAI Mill II
V federal laboratory, he said, could be |\LI!IUlLU HI I MLlflUU I
>ut in full working operation for $1,>00,000.
Secretarv Daniels. a number of rear
Hu?died a?d Thirty sack* Tak
ha. heard Mr. Edhson. From Holjand.America Liner
Telia A.ai of ~aboiato.\. Steamer Baltic Detained.
Mr. Kdison said that with standardisation
of parts it might be possible to
iroduce a submarine within a week, XKW VollK, March la British ;
ind the aim of the laboratory would be ihorities at Falmouth removed
always keep ahead of the other fellow sacks of mail from the Holland-Ann
-to keep in advance of development." it?a line steamer Xoordam. which
Submarine and aeroplane engines, he rived here today ft oni' Rotterdam a
taid, should be especially studied. Falmouth, according to officers of t
As to the initial cost of th<- labora- ship. The Noordam was detained
ory, Mr. Kdison said, with a chuckle. Falmouth twenty-four hours while I
hat "a lot of them were trying to ,.argo alJ(j mail were inspected. T
i- t it* onvprnnipnt but he was
mre he could Ret a laboratory, site, mail was not returned,
iuilding and everything all ready to The White Star line steamer Ball
jperate for the $1,500,000. which arrived from Liverpool, report
"What appropriation would you ask thal H,M. ,,ad been detained there fr?
%,r the first year after the laboratory March , to Mareh H. while the p,
s ready. asked Representative was closed temporarily. The cause
Oliver. suspension of shipping- was not a
..... ? _. , v __ . nounced officially. but passengers sf
Million for First Yeai Maintenance. was due to the presence of host
That dei.en.la on what Von want to submarines outside .he port.
Jo. 1 spend about $300,000 a year for
zsfzszns ismail hakki reported
ss new turk|sh <*? ch?
>e doing well." LONDON*. March 15.?An Athens d
"They want so many things in the patch to the Exchange Telegraph Coj
tavy right off. it would fill things up. nany say8 it is reported that Ism
would have three shifts of eight ,, . ,,OM, . ,
.ours each I should say the appro- Hakkt. president of commercial admi
[irlation should be about fl.000,000 for islration. has been appointed Turki
ihe first year for maintenance, and so minister of war.
5n." ?
vii .. r t . a. , Rumors have recently been jn circ
Mobilization of Industries. j |atton to the effect that Knver Past
Howard E. Coffin, chief engineer of | Turkish minister of war, the milita
[lie nuuoun nuiuiiiuinic ' uui|irtii.v 01 Ifn'ici v? ??? " nir ?]
Del roil, and a member of the naval riding: force in the entry of Turk
ndvisorv board, who followed iMr. Kdi- into the Kuropean war on the side
SOn. insisted that the mobilization of ^oentral ;^r%"hoh^v^r^a^
industries to help in time of war was steadily contradicted.
>f greater importance to preparedness Ismail Hakki Bey has held office
than the building of ships or ths rs- several Turkish cabinets during t
jruiting of men. _ _ past ten years.
A
' TROOPS ON TH
j BELIEF ALONI
CENSOR HOL
lOWEMO ~DI
? AT TWO POSITIONS ?
I .
Two Sections of Expedition Ha;
Marching Toward MexiAin
I ino
I Is CM I UIIIUi
COMMUNICATIONS HALTED DEI
WITH THE BREAK OF DAY
"Move When You Are Eeady." Is ! Sec-r
Only Instructions Given to i 0:
Gen. Pershing.
? !'
SAX XXTOXIO. Starch IS tin. j \
Fuimton admitted thin afternoon j
I CO
that it wan poMnihle an advance had !
been made, and that he had not been j IS 11
told of It. He Maid, however, that if j |jjt.
any movement had taken plnee it I
probably wa? near Haehita. >. M.. j ^atC
where Col. Ilodd In ntatloned. and J
not at Columhu*. Col. Ilodd In not in | ^
dlreet telegraphic communleation j '
with lien. Funnton. and If he report- . bllt
| ed at all. the general Nald. It would \
be to (sen. Pernhiiifc.
j C< >11:
EL PASO, Tex., March 1i tlier
United States troops, with camps j meil
broken, were under marching i gOV,
equipment along the Mexican j j1
... i
I border west of liere at daylight ,,f t
today in at least two positions. <rjve
Military censors prohibited mor
S. | transmission of anv information
I
jof actual movements throughout!
j the first half of the day. '1"he i ,.e<iu
troops in readiness were at Co- i Sl?"
lumbtts and liachita. X. M. i JierM
Cavalry Brigade Ready for Dash.
It is known that the 2d Cavalry abou
. him
Brigade, under the command of Col. \0
L. George A. l?odd. has hurried through *
hp preparations for the campaign and Cam
einba
is about to move forward from Culber- tjlf. ,
son's ranch on the border. This ; "hipi
CK
brigade is expected to make a dash I diver
i-across the line at any moment, if it has !
! not done so already. lean <
1 Ad,
A movement of troops is said to hate , with
! begupn early this morning, when com- j Ante
! munkation with Columbus was finall v I ' e',1
B. i outli
ind ' broken oft. ?*olor is lent to this report main
>hn by the attitude of the military authori- ment
ier? ties here. offici
ife, bord
J*1" "Move When Yoti Are Ready.*' we*re
md ]t had been reported here that by this
SV' morning the American troops would be
is
(across the boundary line, but Gen. Off
j Funston himself did not know Gen. Ame
Pershing's intention. His orders to the, ranzi
[commander of the punitive expedition rang
led , were in effect. ".Move when you are ! or
ms i ready." (Villa
r,o | IJltle in the way of preparation was j cjer
rft_ left undone last night, but there is a
H feeling at army headquarters thai ' Vitter
on: jGen. Pershing might wish to delay his ! gove
ust {advance until practicallv every possi- ! note
ng. jbility of a hitch in his plans was
. j trn m ma icu. St alt
i The general orders that have been , Jjue|.
tissued for the suppression of ail news j
| that might interfere with the success . " StM
tof the contemplated expedition i!,toitakei
J Mexico have served to keep the public jaruj
in ignorance of the exact number oT I ? 11 jt,
troops that will be sent in under (Jen. 1 xvjt(,
Pershing. j their
- I i More Troops Available if Needed.
H j It is generally known, however, that
' | the greater part of the available t roops ;,.,.u
i in th0 1'nited States will be within I < ?fflci
reach i: il should become necessarv to
.'State
en use them. JalM, ,
'i root* trains continue-.! last night to |
! c:?rr> cavalry and infantry to the dis-|
; t riot along the boundary line between (
Mexico ai.d New Mexico, but today the; '* *
1 coiiceni rat ion of men and supplies w as tuiu?
{ practically completed.
! The first aeroplane squadron is there,
u- ami nttn irons motor trucks have been ti<M^
I o" j parked on the border ready for use State
er_ along the line of communication that hunt
j will he maintained wherever possible. ....
ar- I ' h
nd j Carranza Border Garrison Increased, resol
,ie Sharper watch is being maintained iest
at by American troopg upon the 500 Villa \yj\h
ler refugees in Nog-ales. Ariz. task
',e Military patrols have been doubled duty
and " strangers are being scrutinized!
ic* I closely. Today no evidences of un- accot
:e<l 'usual activity were apparent either in force
3J" j this city or in Nogales. Sonora. just ~
0f [across the border. .It was reported. &
,n_ 1 however, tltat the Carranza garrison Sen
lid I which yesterday consisted of about
ile I fifty men. w as increased today by the a req
j arrival of abf>ut a thousand men from ranza
the interior of the state, hound for for a
Chihuahua.
Information concerning the troops. so
however, was not given out officially. their
"I \
:F 1?icrlitin<r nn Russian Front
*b"v*-o ? i up
is_ PETRU(iKAD, March 14. via London, tl,e r
March 1T?.?An official statement says caV4t
111" . - . , milita
ail there has been heavy firing southward der
n_ of lake Babit. on the Riga front. A l>isr
sj, Lettish detachment, it is said, pene- b"rtrT
trated the enemy's trenches and after gondii
bayoneting the occupants returned ti-Am
u- without loss. Further progress is
ia claimed on the middle Strips sector Wou!
' of <jalicia.
m Sen
Turks on Gallipoli Shelled. fion"!
of CONSTANTINOPLE. March IS. via by R
London, 12:40 p.m.?"Two cruisers on whicl
cn March 11-12. shelled the environs of ,he a
in Teke Rurnu (Gallipoli peninsula)," tha a? qU
he war office announced today. "They then to th
withdrew." , reaoli
I '
EMOVE,
I BORDER;
DING NEWS
Ml PLEASED
PITH PLANS OF U. S.
> Sent Word to That Effect
to Ambassador Arredondo.
MIES THAT FIRST CHIEF
HAS ASKED FOR A DELAY
etary Baker and General Staff
fficers Waiting for Word Expedition
Hai Started.
ntbassador Arredotido, Mexirepresental
ve in Washington,
mt only himself pleased with
course of events which india
working; understanding
\een Mexico and the United
e> in the elimination of Villa,
has word from < ien. Venusa
Uarranza. first chief of the
-titntionalist governmen. that
e is content with the arrangeit
on the part of the recognized
ernnient.
his information of the attitude
he Uarranza government was
n out at the embassy this
ning.
Jetties Delay Was Requested.
is denied by the embassy that any
est has been made of the I'nited
is government that the military
?s of the I'nited States delay for a
>d the punitary expedition into
hern Mexico to give the Carranza ^
ph now said to be drawing a net
it Villa an opportunity to capture
and his bandit crew,
reason is known at thf embassy
he seizure of ammunition at DougAriz..
in transit for the use of
anza forces. As there is no official
irgo on a^ms. in the knowledge of
embassy, it is supposed that these
nenis were held up at ihat place
time for feat thai they might be
ted in transit and fall into the
s of Villa followers. No other exit
ioM seems plausible to the Mexiliplomatic
staff here,
ministration officials still were
out information early today that
rican troops had crossed the born
pursuit of Villa and his hand of
iws. Secretary Baker, who has reled
at his desk at the War Departlong
into the night going over
al dispatches and reports from the
er since he took office, announced
110 word had come that troops
moving into Mexico.
leased at Reception of Note.
icials were gratified today that th?
rican note, accepting Gen. Cara's
proposal for a reciprocal arement
whereby either his troups
merican troops mat hunt down the
bandits on either side of the borhad
been favorably received at
etaro. Mexico, where the Carranza
rnment is located. Word that the
had created "a most favorable itniion"
came from the American
Department representative at
etaro. after lie had personally pre<1
it to Foreign Secretary Acuna.
tements setting forth all that h.ts
1 place since the Columbus raid
of tlm Washington government's
ide and its reciprocal arrangement
the Cartanza government were 011
way today to American repreitives
in Mexico. This step was
1 to prevent distorted versions of
unerican purpose in sending armed
s across the border being widely
lated in the southern republic,
a Is hope thereby to make plain
peaceful purpose of the I'nited
s toward all Mexicans except Villa
lis bandits.
More Reassuring Advices.
assuring advices from Mexico con
to recoil the government. These
that 1'iere had been 110 demenst r:? of
ill feeling : KHinM the I'nitati
s because of the determination to
down the Villa outlaws,
e Senate toda\ passed the joint
ution passed by the House late
rday, providing: for the recruiting
e regular army to its full strength,
the passage of the resolution the
of tilling up regiments on border
will be undertaken,
tion on the resolution had been
ested by the army general staff on
int of the weakening of the border
by the expedition after Villa.
ilent on Request for Delay.
etary Baker, when asked today if
uest had been received from Car,
military officials on the border
delay of the American expedition
it t'arranza forces might carry out
own plans to capture Villa, said:
lave nothing to say on that subdepartment
has heard nothing of
uinored blowing up of an Ameriroop
train nor of any important
try development south of the bor>atches
to the State and Navy detents
from the principal ports on
Mexican coasts today reported
lions orderly and no apparent anleriean
feeling.
Id Withdraw Philippine Forces.
ator Sherman of Illinois mtio- *
I in the Senate today the resolusubmitted
to the House yesterday
epresentative Written of Illinois,
i would provide for withdrawal of
rmy from the Philippine lal&nde
iekly as possible, in order to add
e defenses of the country. Ths
ition sets forth that "there ap1
