THIS PAPER issued in
Two Sections Section
one—Pages to to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denison
locals.
VOL. 51
200 ATTCNDTBE
ROAD MEETING
Township Officers and Interested Tax
payers Attend Good Roads Meet
Thursday Last.
ADDRESS BY MR. B. W. NORRIS
Makes Strong Plea for Permanent
Roads and Favored Proposition
of Bonding the County.
The good roads meeting held in Den
ison Thursday at the Germania opera
house was attended by nearly two
hundred township officers, together
with other citizens of the county who
are interested in the good roads move
ment which seems to be sweeping
across Iowa. It was a great meeting
and it is to be regretted that every
The forenoon meeting convened at
10 o'clock, Mr. Holland giving an out
line-of the program to be carried out
and briefly spoke, on the bonding prop
osition. He stated that at the present
rate it would take Crawford county
at least ten years to complete the one
hundred and fifty miles of the county
road system, and that the board of su
pervisors believed that the work should
be done at once so that everyone might
enjoy the improvement. County Engi
nocr H. B. Fishel addressed the meet
ing and took up some of the import
ant. matters pertaining to township
roads and answered a number of ques
tions prqpounded to him by township,
trustees siul road superintendents. Mr.
I'ishcl has made a study of good roads
and the laws of the state pertaining
to county roads and township roads,
and was able to uiwer in a clear ahd
rtcfinito manned every question put to
him. He first spoke of filling the ap
proaches to new culverts and bridges
Distinctively New,
Beautiful Blouses
received Monday 'of this week.
Made up in Georgette crepes with
chiffon underlay. They are very dres
sy bloUses, featuring the very new
est ideas in tailoring and designing.
The colors arc blue, green, black and
white. This lot also includes a lot
of drossy lace blouses^ Priced at
$4.05
They're, wonderful waists for $l.«o
and they show what modern factory
and storfekeeping methods tan accom
plish when applied to the making and
selling of waists.
The New Wirthmor Waists on Sale
This Week. As Always, $1.00. As
Always, Worth More.
The manner in which these Waists
are made and sold—the large savings
that come as a result of their manu
facture on a tremendous scale, and in
a most efficient and economical man
ner—together with the large savings
in selling expense has made possible
the sale of these splendid Waists at
$1.00 Call and look over the line toe
fore the stocks are broken.
THE
and explained that the township in
which the bridge or culvert is located
is required by law to pay $150 of the
cost of making such fills, the county
the remainder. Where the township
commences to do this work they are
required to finish it, but if they refuse
to make the fill the board of super
visors must have it done, charging up
$150 against the township, the re
mainder being paid out of the county
road fund. This matter wa&.discussed
at some length and ail of the township
officers present found the discussion
of much profit. The meeting adjourn
ed at 12 o'clock to convene again at
1 o'clock.
Afternoon Meeting.
The afternoon meeting did not com
mence until about 1:30 as it was ex
pected that Mr. B. W. Norris. the
speaker of the afternoon, would ar
rive in Denison on the noon train.
County Engineer Fishel opened the
afternoon program with a t^lk on the
permanent road and bridge -work that
has been accomplished in the county
during tllfe past three years, his talk
taxpayer In the county could 'not bO| being illustrated with some stei eop
present. Late in the afternoon the
board of supervisors requested those
present to vote on two propositions,
the first, whether or not they were in
favor of bonding the county for the
construction of permanent bridges anl
culverts on the present county road
system and, second, whether* or not
they favored bonding the county for
grading the present county road sys
teni. Both of the propositions receiv
ed a large vote, especially the first,
there being over three to one in favor
of the proposal. The vote was taken
in order-that the board of supervis
ors might ascertain, the sentiment of
the taxpayers in regard to permanent
bridges and road work in the county.
The members of the board are well
pleased with the results of the meet
ing and can now go ahead and make
the desired improvements, feeling that
the taxpayers are back of them.
ticon views thrown upon the screen
by Prof. W. C. VanNess.
Upon the arrival of Mr. Norris. he
was introduced by Mr. Holland. The
speaker stated that it was always a
pleasure to talk on the road problem
for everyone knows that Iowa lias a
read problem. When Mr. Norris was
introduced as chairman of Governor
Clarke's Better Roads commission, he
launched into a description of the won
derrul hard roads that people enjoy in
every state east of Iowa without any
higher road taxes than are paid in
Iowa.
"The farther east you go the hot
ter the roads are." said .Mr. Norris.
"and down in the New England states
they are enjoving roads that were built
several hundred years ago. Even
bridges of stone set in place without
cement or mortar are as good today
as they were when they were built
during the time of George Washing
ton."
1-Ie said that Minnesota and Mis
souri now have three times as many
miles of roads permanently improved
as Iowa has Illinois four times, Wis
consin five times, and Indiana and
Ohio ten times as many without as
much tax money as is paid in Iowa
eacli year. He said that the reason
Iowa spent more tax money than all
other states except two and got less
permanent road work than twenty-six
other states, was that the people of
all other states were bonding for road
improvements.
"Indiana." said Mr. Norris, ."lias
more miles of gravel rpad than Iowa
has in its entire eountyi road system,
and iii Ohio the same ^condition ex
lets. Iowa is spending more money
on its bridges and roads than any of
the states of the union with the ex-
(Continued on'Page Three)
Special offering of white voile waists
with blazer stripes in Copenhagen, pink
green and white. Regular $2.00 val
ues priced at $1.49
A wonderful showing of madras
cloth waists, .with silk stripe in green
yellow, blue and lavender. Priced
at $1.39.
DAIRY TRAIN
COMES FRIDAY
Commercial Club Takes Arrangements
in Charge and With Commission
Outlines Good Program.
CARS LIGHTED DAY AND NIGHT
Program Will Commence at 1 O'clock
at Gymnasium, Where Lectures
Will Be Delivered.
All arrangements have been com
pleted for the dairy train special
which will visit Denison on Friday of
this week. The Commercial club has
taken hold of the matter and together
with the Iowa State Dairy associa
tion, under whose auspices the train
is being rvln, a most interesting ami
profitable program has been arranged.
It is hoped that everyone interested
in dairying will be present to listen
to the lectures by men who have maun
a study of this great industry.
The program will comme-nce at 1
o'clock at the gymnasium, where the
men who are accompanying "the dairy
train will deliver lectures. They have
information that can be usetl to ad
vantage by every farmer. Although
dairying will be the main theme, yet
tho subjects of silos and silage, alfal
fa, seed corn testing, etc. will be dis
cussed. The men who are to deliver
lectures in Denison are especially anx
ious to have anyone in the audience
ask questions and give their opinions
after tho lectures have been complet
ed. After the lectures the local cow
show will be held in the basement of
the gymnasium. Arrangements have'
been completed for 'exhibiting repre
sentatives of the leading dairy breeds.
Those animals will all show their
ability to produce milk on the aver
age farm at a .profit and will be cows
that have made good records and' also
handsomo profits. A number'of cows
from local herds will be exhibited at
tho gymnasium and the experts will
point out their good qualities and de.
fects. if there be any. At 3 o'clock
the boys' and girls' judging contest
will take place in the basement of the
gymnasium. Following the judging
contest the exhibition cars at the Illi
nois Central depot will be thrown open
to tho public,'
The exhibits on the special dairy
train will be the most complete o£ any
carried on an educational train. Both
the baggage car and the day coach
will be loaded to capaoity .with mod
ern, but practical equipment for the
farm and dairy. The walls will be
completely covered with charts, draw
ings and pictures which will be self
explanatory.
One of the most interesting exhibits
is the comparative value of foods. Ev­
—J 1
I
A beautiful lot of all-silk suits prced at $24,no to $19.50.
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK. NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1916.
ery housewife should see this because
it illustrates in a clear itnatmer the
real nutritive value of .the common
foods used in the home. It shows in
particular the economy i.i using more
dairy products for evert'ay cooking.
The cars will be brilliantly lighted
This is the first good roads special
ever run in the state of Iowa and prac
tically the lirst good roads train ever
run in this country, and Crawford
county people- will be glad to learn
that it. will visit Denison oil Tuesday,
March 21st. arriving in the city at
o'clock in the morning and leaving for
tho west at 11:40 a. in.
The special train will have, one car
devoted to good roads models showing
thirteen'types of road construction
They illustrate the bnilding of earth,
sand, clay, gravel, macadem and other
kinds of roads. They also illustrate
various methods of road drainage and
are built on a scale 3 feet -wide and 5
feet long.
The lecture car will be equipped
with stereopticon views, illustrating
road making methods and showing
what has been accomplished in build
ing good roads.
We understand that the train is run
as an educational project to Inform
the people of Iowa, about various kinds
of roads-that are in use and the rail
roads are furnishing the several trains
without expense.
With Crawford county launching in
to a better roads campaign tiiere
should be a large attendance
E O E E N A A N O A N
Spring's Influence Now Manifests Itself Throughout the Store in Attractive Novelties in Every Dept.
Of special feminine interest are the new arrivals just received of gowns, hats, suits, blouses, parasols and a complete showing of new silks,
suitings, trimmings and laces now ready for the opening season, as well as recent purchases in rugs, draperies, curtains, etc.
In Our Women's Wear Department, 2nd Floor
Geo. Menagh
and Company
Representing the Latest Developments in Spring Fashions
We have a complete showing' of suits made up in the Poriet silks. This wonderful fabrick is shown ex
clusively' and controlled exclusively by our store in Denison and branch in* Omaha. We own every yard of
this material oil the American market. It is an imported English material, made by Priestly.| The weave of
this fabric is a silk back ancl' a wool face. This brings out the soft tone, and gives the wearer a distince ap
pearance which neither silk nor wool can give, if you want something distinctly new and something which
every dealer cannot give you, you owe it to yourself to look over our showing. We are showing 5 different
stylos. The colors aro wistaria, resida green, blue navy and black. The stlyc and cut alone is sufficient to
attract you, and when you examine .them and try them on before, the mirror you will appreciate the ar
tistic effect produced. These suits are worth $-15.00 Specially priced for Thursday, Friday and Saturday of
this week at $29.50
A Wonderful Fashionable Showing of New Spring Suits
Featuring all the new shades, and embodying all the newest ideas in suit making. In fact some of those gar
ments have been received on our floor this week. Tho'entire offering is priced at $17.50, $1!).50 and $2ii.50
Your New Spring Coat Problem is Solved In
Our Women's Wear Department
Offering a wonderful collection of new Spring coats at $9.50, $12.50, $15, $17.50 and $19.50
Most women now realize that a coat may ,appear ever so nice the day is bought, but if the fabrics, tailor
ing and inside construction are fault the original charm will not and cannot last long.
Therefore, discriminating women of Denison and vicinity invariably seek good materials and good work
manship in additiou to correct style. These features are all embodied in one line uud one word: Wooltex. This
nark'has come to be a guide in clothes satisfaction lor hundred^ of women in Denison and Crawford county.
MAYOR W.H.LADB
WINS IN CAUCUS
The dairy feed exhibit will also be
attractive and helpful to those feed
ing milk cows. Niimerorls feeds will
be shown, giving their inalvsis and
their comparative cost. Feeding is
one of the most import an1, problems
which'the Iowa farmer ami dairyman
has to contend with at the present
time. In addition to the many helpful
machines and utensils foi the dairy
there will he two milking, machines in
operation here in Penbmn. Demon
strators will give full information in £t t1 citizens' caucus, held Friday
regard to them to all interested parties
Largest Caucus Ever Held in the City
of Denison Proves to be a Very
Spirited Affair.
PAUTSCH WINS IN THIRD WARD
AM the Old Officers Re-Elected With
the Exception of Dr. Hal C.
Simpson in Third Ward.
0Vl'lllnS
both day and nifeht by a-lighting .plant, i"? candidates tor municipal offices to
In connection with tho light plant be voted upon at the city election on
there will be demonstrations o!' inter
est to the ladies on 1 ho stove- connec
tions for cooking. A water system
which brings water directly from, the
well to the faucet iii tho house, will
also supply water for the cars.
GOOD, ROADS TRAIN
Will Visit Denjson Next Tuesday—
One Oar Contains Model Road
Plans—Lectures Delivered
A special train Conducted by the
United States government will visit
tho prii-ipal cities ill Iowa along the
lines of the Nbrthwestorrn. Iloclc Isl
and. Burlington and Milwaukee rail
roads during the latter part of thi-j
month for the purpose of stimulating
interest in the building of good roads
throughout the state of Iowa.
It was not only evident before the
caucus convened, but during the cau
cus that it was engineered by leading
democrats in the community. When
it became whispered about on the
streets tlijit G. L,. Caswell and Clement
•T. Welch were behind the movement
the people decided that a full attend
ance- of the voters should be had in or
der that full and fair expression of
that a full and fair expression of tl:e
tho choice city candidates could be
made regardless of the plans of those
who had been instrumental in having
a citizens caucus called. Clement J.
Welch made the motion to proceed to
ballot by secret ballot and this motion
wars seconded by G. L. Caswell. G. L.
Caswell then moved that each voter
go forward ajul pass between the tell
ers and dopilsit his vote, rather than
to have the' tells pass through the
crowd to collect the ballots. This mo
tion upon being voted upon was lost.
The informal ballot on mayor show
ed that Mayor Laub had a strong lead
111 the vote, which.jyas as follows:
taub 132.
REVIEW
for the purpose of nominat-
Maxell 27th, all of the present office
holders were nominated with the ex
ception of Dr. Hal C. Simpson, coun
ciltnan from the third ward, who is to
be succeeded by Ben Pautseh.
Tho caucus was the largest one ever
jheld in Denison, there being almost
500 voters in attendance. It was ad
vertised to take place at the cjty hall,
but on account of the large attendance
adjournment was had to the old opera
house, where standing room was at a
premium. The- meeting was called to
order by .[. 15. Lyon, who read the call,
and who was made permanent chair
man of the caucus with IL E. Mote as
secretary.
x'
Carey 135.
Pearson 55.
Scattering 23.
On the formal ballot tiiere were 42$
votes cast and the result showed Laub
222, Carey 141, Pearson 63. Laub hav­
The Silk Department
New purchases of spring silks for
the Spring season are now offered
in this department. We are.now of
fering some of the latest productions
of the looms in taffetas and novelty
silks, all 27 inches wide, including a
ing a majority over the others, was de'
clared nominated.
It was moved by Clement J. Welch
that the vote on two councilinen at
large be an informal one and that the
four receiving the highest number of
votes be the only candidates eligible
for a formal ballot. This motion was
amended so that the first ballot should
be declared formal, and upon being
taken showed 382 votes cast, of which
Tainm received 237 Hayes 219 Fitch
140 Faul 135, and Tamm and Hayes
were declared the nominees. C.
Voss was nominated for treasurer and
H. A. Norman for assessor by ac
clamation.
This is the third time that the dem
ocrats have engineered a citizens cau
cus in Denison and each time their
candidates have- been snowed under.
The first ward caucus was held in
the gallery of the gymnasium, the can
didates for councilmen being Thomas
Nielsen and James Mitqhell. Mr.
Nielsen was nominated on the first
formal ballot, having a clear majority
over the other candidate.
The second ward caucus was held at
the city hall and H. J. Moeller was
nominated for councilman of that warjl
without opposition.
The third ward caucus was held in
the- main room of the gymnasium and
proved a spirited affair, the vote upon
tho informal ballot being 67 for Hal
C. Simpson and 68 for Ben Pautseh
with a few scattering votes, whereup
on Simpson withdrew and Pautseh
was declared the nominee. Dr. Simp
son was the only member of the old
organization that failed to receive the
endorsement. of his constituents.
It is said that the same parties who
were back of the caucus idea and par
ticipated in it are now seeking to pre
sent a list of candidates by petition
for the election on March 27th. The
people will hardly stand for such
conduct and will deYnand that the
ticket nominated by'the people at the
citizens caucus shall be supported by
the voters at the election, in view of
the fact that the proposition for im
provement in the way of paving and
completing the deep well, as well as
carrying out the project of making a
success of the electric light plant are
pending, it seems that these questions
should be left with those who
are familiar with these improve
ments rather than to turn them over
to new and inexperienced men. It is
more important for the city of Deni
son to develop these improvements
and make a success of them than it if
to follow the fortunes of one man or
a set of men whose ambition dictates
their conduct. We predict that when
the election is held, the candidates
nominated at the citizens caucus will
win without any question, inasmuch
as a full attendance of the people at
the caucus was had and a fair expres
sion of the voters resulted in the se
lection or the candidates for the sev
eral offices.
67S0
nymbor of ultrd-smart novcHict a
dopted by America's leading design
ers. The assortments now exhibited
aro more extensive than any of our
former Spring offerings. This special
lot of taffetas in novelties and plaids
is priced at 98c per yard.
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 11
SCHOOL ELECTION
HELD MONDAY
All Old Officers R-s-iElected by the
Forty-One Voters Who Cast Their
Votes on That Day.
VOTE $6,000 SCHOOL HOUSE FUND
Denison Fortunate in Being Able to
Have Such Men on School Board
—(Secretary Makes Report
The school election, held ini Deni
son Monday, failed to create much en
thusiasm fan the part of the electors,
only 41 people of tiie city availing
themselves of the privilege of voting
for a director for the term of three
years and a treasurer for the term ot
three years. The lack ol! interest at
the school election was due, no doubt,
to the fact that there was no opposi
tion to the present officers. Mr. IJ.
Brodersen was re-elected to the ofhee
of director for a term of three years,
and M. E. Jones to the office of treas
urer for a term of two years. The
electors voted $6,000 school house
fund, which will be used to pay up the
outstanding bonds at maturity.
The electors' meeting was held at
the city hall at 2:30 o'clock with a
fair attendance. The meetiug wan
called to order by Hon. Carl F. Kuehn
le, the president of the school board,
who briefly told of the purpose of the
meeting. W. C. Rollins, secretary of
the board, read the financial report,
which was published in this paper last
week, ami briefly explained the dif
ferent items. He called attention to
the fact that $1,200 had been expend
ed on the Faniijton building, which is
now being used for kindergarten pur
poses. Over $1,000 has been paid out
of the school house fund without any
additional bonding of the district, for
the heating plant. During the past
year the board has paid $159.92 to the
city for electric current used for
school purposes. General repairing on
the buildings for the past year amount
c«d to $70!). Mr. Rollins reported that
tiiere were now twenty-eight pupils
in the high school who are paying tui
tion and that there aTe six pupils in
the grades who aro. paying tuition.
Denison is indeed fortunate, in hav
ing such representative business men
on its school board and the fact that
Denison ranks high among the schools
in the state is due In part to their of-,
forts.
Mrs. Robert Romans returned
terday from Onfttha^wggra she had
been for the past few days visit
sister, Miss Clara Scriver.
In Our Millinery
Style Shop During
Our Opening Week
A very fashionable offering of sniart
liaOs for spring and early summer
wear. Thursday, Friday and Saturday
at $5.00. In order to appreciate
them, the hats must be seen and tried
on. Millinery Dep't. 2nd Floor.
In Our Dry Goods
Department
An, offering of 2,000 yards of M-inch
unbleached muslin. This is a full
bale of muslin and one of the largest
purchases of this material ever receiv
ed by any concern in Denison. The
condition of the-market at the present
time warrants a' price at least 25 per
cent more than our price. Offered very
special for Thursday, Friday and Sat
urday of this week at 5 l-2c a yard.
A limit of loo yards to a customer.
Flexo Underskirts. A complete new
shipment of Flexo underskirts shown
in all the newest materials in tljjs
popular priced garment. No elastic
to rot nor hooks to bulge. Priced
at l)Sc.
Biting Her
