Vr
ii" ,tf
" '!!'
'--
K
THE HARTFORD HERALD.
Subscription $1 Per Tear, in Advance.
"I Cm, tin HeraU ef i Koiij World, (In Hm of 111 faiioai Lumbering il Ij Back."
All Kinds Job Printing Neatly Executed.
A
1 4:2(1 YEAR.
HARTFORD, KY., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1916.
NO. 11
-
MORTGAGE
LS
TAX ML UNJUST
Hon. Ben Johnson Attacks
the Measure
AND DECLARES PROPOSED LAW
"Villainous" and Boon Only To
Money Lenders Who Are
Backing It.
"WRITES TO TUB LEGISLATORS
Washington, March 2. An attack
upon the mortgage tax measure ap
proved by the Louisville Real Es
tate Board is contained In a letter
sent to all members of the Kentucky
Legislature to-day by Representa
tive Ben Johnson.
A draft of this proposed bill was
printed in', (the real estate depart
ment of the Courier-Journal last
Sunday, and after reading it Mr.
Johnson declared that the bill is
"villainous," and he trusts every
member of the Legislature will aid
In Us defeat.
That the bill, while posing as a
remedy for double taxation, really
is a boon to mouey lenders on real
estate, is stated by the Fourth Dis
trict Congressman. Mr. Johnson's
letter to the Legislature follows:
"To the Kentucky Legislature,
Frankfort, Ky. Gentlemen:
"Last Sunday's Courier-Journal
contained the draft of a bill which
the Louisville Real Estate Exchange
will ask tho present Legislature to
enact Into law.
"When one has vcarefully read the
1)111 he will not ask the question why
it-was,-gqt ntr0QUC?4. sooner' Such
a bill, If passed at' alf, can only pass
during the last hours of the session,
-when it cannot be scrutinized.
"The general purpose of the bill
is to have money which Is Invested
in mortgages escape the greater part
of taxation which Is levied upon oth
er classes of property.
"If I remember correctly the rate
of taxation In the city of Louisville
JLis ?1.80 on each ?100 of property
' assessed. In addition to that ?1.80
the county Imposes a tax upon the
same property of about fifty cents
on each $100; and In addition to
,jb that the State Imposes a tax of fifty
' cents on each $100. I am Inclined
to the opinion that In addition to
the municipal, county and State tax
there are some special taxes, but not
bejng sure of this, I shall treat the
subject as if those three separate
taxes were the only taxes levied.
Therefore, the holder of real estate
In the city of Louisville must pay a
municipal tax of ?1.S0, a county tax
of fifty cents and a State tax of fifty
cents, making all told a tax rate of
$2.80 on each $100 of taxable prop
erty. "The bill which is now proposed
in dying hours of the Legislature
undertakes to exempt mortage loans
of all taxation except fifty cents on
each $100, It the bill should pass
taxation upon the loan for all years
except the first one.
'F'or instance. As the law now
stands, If a man were to lend $10,
000 and take as collateral security
warehouse receipts, bonds, stocks,
or any form of intanglblo personal
Property sufficient to cover the en
tire loan, he would have to pay tax
at the maximum rate upon the $10,
000, and ho would have to pay that
tax annually.
"But, under tho above referred to
section of the proposed law, If he
wero to make a similar loan and
then fake a mortgage upon only
$10.00 worth of real estate as
"additional security," that would en
able him to avail himself of the fif
ty cent rate upon tho whole $10,
000, and would also enable him to
escape taxation upon the whole of
that loan except for the first year of
Its existence.
"The authors of the proposed bill
lay claim to the fallacy that the bill
will abolish double taxation. That
may be true, but it would not do
away with it equitably and Justly.
For instance: Under the present
law In Kentucky if a man owns a
farm worth $5,000 and has It mort
gaged for $2,500, the farmer pays
taxes on the entire $5,000, and the
holder of the mortgage Is supposed
to pay tax on the $2,500 which i3
lent upon tho farm. In this way
there Is a double taxation on tho
$2,500. The farm pays It In one
Instance and the lender of tho mon
ey pays It In the other.
"This bill proposes to do away
with the' double taxation by leaving
the farmer to pay tax upon the $2,
500 which he has borrowed, and
permits the money lender to escape
tho payment of almost no tax upon
the money which he owns, and
which ho has lent, upon the farm.
If the proponents of this measure
really Intend to ""do away with the
double taxation, the farmer should
be required only to pay tax on the
value of his farm, minus the mort
gage indebtedness which Is upon It;
and then the man holding tho mort
gage should pay the same rato of
taxation on the other $2,500 which
he, In this Indirect way, has Invest
ed In the farm.
"I venture the opinion, without
investigation, that no county In the
Stato of Kentucky has a county rate
of taxation less than fifty cents,
while the State rato of taxation is
fifty cents. In that event tho gen
eral tax-payer living In any county
In the Stato would pay every year
at the rate of not less than $1 on
his farm and livestock, while the
money lender, under this bill, would
pay only fifty cents, and would pay
that for only one year during the
life of the loan.
"Another provision of tho bill
places tho collection of this tax with
the County Court Clerk, and takes
it out of tho hands of the Sheriff.
The Sheriff's office Is not worth too
much as It Is, and the passage of
this bill would make It wortli less.
"In my opinion, if this bill should
become law the railroads and great
corporations which have taxable
outstanding mortgage bonds upon
their proporty would take advan
tage of tho provisions of this bill
and retire tho taxable bonds, and re
place them with mortage bonds con
templated in this bill, which would
be taxable at tho small rato of 50
BARS DOWN FOR
ILITSJURSUIT
And Soldiers Preparing
To Go After Him.
CUBBffl'S OFFER ACCEPTED
No Invasion of Mexico in Force
Is Comtcmplatcd by
Washington.
NO PURPOSE OK AGGRESSION'
Washington, March 101 Ameri
can troops were ordered across the
Mexican border to-day by President
Wilson to take Francisco Villa and
his bandits, dead or alive.
Under the direction, If not actual
leadership of General Funston, who
ended tho Philippine Insurrection by
taking Agulnaldo single-handed, the
American columns aro expected to
be moving into Mexico before to
morrow night.
They go to meet about 3,000
guerilla troop3 in the mountainous
region from which tho Carranza
troops have lied. The number of
men who will comprise the Ameri
can expedition was withheld for
military reasons.
Whether this long deferred arm
ed action, which begins purely as a
punitive measure will clear Northern
Mexico of the menacing bandit
bands, over which Carranza has no
control, shall grow Into a general
armed intervention or occupation of
Mexico, depends in a large measure
upon Carranza and the Mexican peo
ple. It bgins with the President's dec
laration that It Is entirely In aid of
the Carranza government and with
out a thought of aggression.
President Wilson's decision to de
part from his policy of watchful
waiting was hastened by the Colum
bus massacre yesterday and an
nounced to-day after it had been
unanimously approved by tho cabi
net and administration leaders in
Congress. The President's position
reached him. Ho added that the
liomlng dispatches contained noth
ing of importance that could bo giv
en out.
The acceptance was made on the
ground that Carranza troops may
cross Into American territory in pur
suit of bandits at any time. It was
pointed out that the Inability of the
Cnrrnnza troops to handle the sit
uation in Northern Mexico is the
solo ground for entry of American
soldiers.
In that way American officials ex
pect the situation will be relieved of
its chief menacing feature. They
expressed the view that a grent deal
of unnecessary pessimism exists ns
to (len. Carranza's attitude. As to
the attitude of the Mexican people,
themselves, however, there Is some
concern, but It Is realized that only
the developments of the next few
days can clear up that phase of the
situation.
Ready To Jump Over.
El Paso, Tex., March 13. In
spite of ofilclal denials, reports per
sisted here to-day that American
cavalry on the Arizona State lino
had gathered for Immediate cross
ing of the Mexican border, and that
they might go across at any moment
to-day. An advance guard of sev
eral cavalry troops was collected on
that border two days ago, with the
prospect that it might be the first
force Into Mexico.
The point where the cavalry ex
pedition Is reported gathering to
enter Mexico from tho Arizona
boundary Is near San Bernardino,
Mexico.
Strong Forro To Go.
San Antonio, Tex., March 13. A
sufficient force Is now gathered at
the Mexican border under the com
mand of Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing
to begin the pursuit of Francisco
Villa, it was announced to-night by
Maj. Gen. Frederick Funston.
The General said that only the
completion of plans for backing up
the. expeditionary force now was
.needed. He was noncommittal.
however, as to tho time necessary to
accomplish this.
Gen. Funston declared reports
that American troops had been or
dered to cross the border In puisutt
of Villa wero untrue. Reiterating
previous statements, he said It would
be useless to send anything but a
strong, well prepared force Into
CARRANZA
ISSUE
00
MANIFESTO
To United States Anent
Present Trouble.
WILL OPPOSE ANY INVASION
Of Mexico Unless Like Privilege
Is Granted Him Regarding
American Soil.
Mexican traitors within and without
mr countt y, who have labored long
to produce this result, and upon
their heads will fall the Inexecrable
Justice of tho Mexican people."
.
SOCIA LIST CANDIDATE
FOR PRESIDENT CHOSEN
DEMANDS RECIPROCAL RIGHTS
was explained fully to tho latter,
thvn the owner of real estate In the
city of Louisville would pay $2.80
tax, while the owner of the money
lent upon real estate would pay only
fifty cents, a difference of $2.30 in
favor of tho money lender as against
the real estate owner. But that Is
not all. Under the last two lines of
Section 6 the money lent upon a
real estate mortgage would pay tax
for only ono year and thereafter
would pay no tax at all.
"It this bill should pass, the mon
ey lender would bo enabled to lend
money on a real estate mortgago for
fifteen years; he would pay a tax at
the rate of fifty cents on each $100
tor the first year; and during the
remaining fourteen years would pay
no tax at all.
"Railroad companies frequently
Issue'-iwtgago bonds for fifty years
S tj5.fcond8 80 Blven would pay
(jJ0U!tfiuU ,rate of taxation for one
jlarTMO and would not pay any
tax winterer during the remaining
forty-ntae years they would run,
wV'trndor one paragraph of Section
1, a money lender could lend any
amount of money and take a mort-
cents for the first year, and would
thereafter bo untaxable.
"The bill is villainous; and I trust
that each and overy member of the
Legislature will see to It that it Is
defeated.
Very truly yours,
BEN JOHNSON."
Negro Is Ills Own Luwyor.
Princeton, Ky March 11. Act
ing as his own lawyer In Circuit
Court here, Gene Hopson, a negro,
was dismissed by a Jury when tried
on a charge of '"bootlegging." He
was defendant in another case, al
leging malicious cutting, and in this
case Circuit Judge Carl Henderson
told him that since he had been so
successful In his other case without
an attorney, that ho did not think it
necessary to appoint ono In tho ma
licious cutting caso. The samo Ju
rors, excoptlng one, trlod both cases,
but on tho malicious cutting runr;-)
he j.egro was not qulto so success
ful In the conduct of his caso. He
was Ined $60.
K, G. Pulllam, of Lexington, has
gage upon a piece of real estate of, been appointed to attend an nvla-
trlfllng value, with the rest of tholtlon school and later become head
security being made up of collateral, of the aviation corps of the Ken-
r.,uww ,WCBl,,, luo ymeui, oi lucay nuiiuu Mr. Puiuam will be- pr.Jd he had not heard of nnv rm
an tax over and above the fifty, gin hla ttwiles after graduation ing and reiterated his promise to
ceata. aad at the same time escape ( from the Mate University in June. malfe tbnt now public as soon aa If
who agreed ho should not be embar
rassed at this time by discussions of
the minority which might arouse
trouble in Mexico.
After a brief cabinet meeting at
which the Piestdent was described
as being as determined to eliminate
Villa as he was to eliminate Hucrta,
Secretary Baker hurried to tho war
department, and us his first act sent
orders to tho border troop3.
Carranza In a telegram to tho
.State department, expressed regret
at the Columbus massacre, but did
not comment on the proposal for
sending American troops to hunt
down tho bandits.
Mocinens Kept fierier.
Washington, March 12. Secrecy
regarding Gen. Funston's plans for
moving against Villa and his bandits
has been so rigidly enforced at tho
War Department that even high offi
cials of the Government aro In doubt
as to whether American troops ac
tually had crossed the Mexican bor
der.
Both the White House and War
Department were again flooded to
day with offers of service by pros
pective voluntoers. Mr. Baker re
peated to all inquiries hl8 statement
that no call upon the Natlonnl
Guard or for volunteers Is contem
plated. Secretary Baker announced lito
to-night that the Twenty-third In
fantry, now at Galveston, Tex., had
been ordered to El Paso because of
fear of Mexican attacks felt In many
towns along tho border. Tho regi
ment, about 1.000 strong, will be
stationed at points designated by
Gen. Funston.
Carranza's Proposal Accepted.
Washington, March 13, Tu
I nlted Stntos this afternoon accept-
on uen. unrrania's proposal for a
recljnocal n-rangoment by wh "i
either his troons or Amorlcan travps
may pursue bandits on either Mda
of the border. A note of nccntnnw
wntf sent forward to Qui, Carranza
it Queretaro.
The War Department wa3 Ftl'l
without advices early to-day as to
whether American troops had cross
ed Into Mexico. Secretarr Baker
Mexico,
That tho force will be a strong
ono was indicated by a statement of
tho General that when the expedi
tion was organized there would be
only six or eight regiments, other
than those on the border, left In the
United States. This did not tike
into account troops In the canal
zono and the Philippines. Outside
of mentioning two or three scattered
movements tho General refused to
give any definite idea of the size c
tho expedition.
Mexico City, March 12. Gen.
Carranra to-night Issued a manifes
to to the nation declaring that un
der no circumstances would thc
Mexican government grant the right
to the United States to violate Mex
ican territory by sending In an arr:
od torce In pursuit of Villa without
cotiM'iit and the reciprocal privilege
being lhst obtained and admitted.
Word was sent to the confidential
agent of the Mexican Government III
atliIngton to make immediate rep
resentations to this effect.
The full text of Gen. Carranza's
manifesto follows:
"Because of tho assault which
Francisco Villa and the bandits who
Chicago, March 11. Allan L.
Benson, of Yonkers, N. Y has been
cho&en as the candidate for Presi
dent of the Socialist party by a ref
erendum vote of the members of tho
party, It was announced here to-day.
George It. KIrkpatrIck, of New
York, was nominated for Vice Pres
ident. Victor Berger, of Milwaukee, and
Morris Hlllqulst, of New York, were
chosen members of the Executive
Committee. Another voto to elect
three nioro members of the Execu
tive Committee will be taken Imme
diately. For the first time the Socialist
party this yeir nominated its Presi
dential candidate by a referendum
vote of its members by States, In
stead of holding a. national convention.
The vote on the candidates was
as follows:
For President:
Allan L. Benson, Yonkers, X. Y.,
1G.U39: .Tames H. Maurer. Iteadlns;,
Pa., 12.2C4; Arthur Lo Sueur, Fort
Scott, Kas., 3,405.
For Vice President:
George It. Kirkpntrlrk, New York,
20.C0T; Kate O'Hare, St. Louis, Mo.,
11.3SS.
Eight candidates for members of
accompanied him made on the town
of Columbus, in Ameilcan territory, ( tne Executive Committee were voted
burning nouses and Killing some oi ( for, but only two received a major!
the Inhabitants, soldiers as well as i ty.
civilians, tho International situation I -
In these moments is very delicate, FOOD PRICES HIGHEST
as the North American press have
excited their people against Mexico
and the Government of that country
has discussed the situation in the
AMONG GERMAN FOLKS
.1
Washington, March 11. Enor
mous Increases In food prices In Eu-
Amerlcan Congress, members of , ropean capitals, particularly those of
which have advised intervention. the Teutonic allies, are shown in a
"Tho Constitutional Government, comparative statement completed by
which I have the honor to represent, ; tlle Department of Labor's Bureau
Is also occupied diligently In an ef- f Labor Statistics. All foo i3
fort to solve this delicate situation, , cheaper in tho allied countries than
trying at all costs to maintain the , n Germany and Austria, but there
dignity and sovereignty of Mexico, ' 1:ave been sharp rises in prices also
and yet we hope that this lamenta- 'n England and France,
bje incident may be decorously ar- Vienna has suffered most of all.
ranged, and that there will be no .eat that sold a year ago at 20
reason for an International conflict, cents a pound Is selling now for 47.
"I have addressed the Govern-
Many other foods have gone up la
mnt nt Hm iTiii'r.l fiinioa fiirnnh , proportion. Bread prices arc not
the Foreign Office, stating that the slven.
invasion of Villa has historical prec- In Berlin beet rose from 22 cents
edents. ns in tho years 1SS0 and , to 3ri veal from 22 to 3S, and pork
1SSC two parties of Indians coming from 20 to 30- Bacon ls selling at
from the United States Invaded So- C4 cents, twice as much as a year
nora and Chihuahua, committing "b. " " " 'acn " ti-iua.
crimes and ilenredatlons on the lives Lard has doubled in price. Eggs at
and properties of Mexicans,
'It uas ',ien agreed between the
Goverr.inents 0f tlio two countries
80 cents a dozen are twice as hlsh
as a year ago.
Prices In Great Britain are given
I;., II. & ST. L. SHOPS AT
CI.OVERPORT DESTROYED
uioverpoii, Ky., March 14.
Fourteen years to the day after
CloverpdrC was burned to tho
groulld, fire, which caused a loss of
from $ lf0, 000 to $200,000. destroy
ed all the shops of tho Louisville,
Henderson & St. Louis railroad and
threatened tho entire west end of
the city.
The wind, which had been blow
ing irom the river over tho shops of
the city, turned shortly after 2
o'clock and rolieved the city of the
danger.
Between 250 and 300 men wero
employed at the shops.
The firo started In tho round
house and had gained good headway
when discovered. This building, In
which soven or eight engines were
housed, was the first to go. The crew
was unablo to move the rolling stock
and tho big engines, valued at $15,
000 each, remained In the shops.
They probably aro not totally des
troyed, but oven If they can bo re
paired and returned to active ser
vice, tho damage will bo great.
Twenty-five passenger coaches aro
included in tho rolling stock des
troyed, Other buildings in tho group,
which comprise tho only shops oper
ated by the Ilendorson Route, aro a
car repair shop, water tanks and
other smaller buildings, Including
toolhouses, storage sheds and sim
ilar houses.
to permit tho respective passage of,s 44 "cr cont- moro than a veal
armed forces, resulting In tho ex-,aEO. The rise in France has been
termination of tlm Tn,in,,a T Imvo . about 23 per cent. In Italy prices
asked tho American Government tdl,,nYe on? u')Wanl vcry s,owly for
1WVM1C a like course In order to I tl,e last months. Meals alone
Bilve futuro difficulties, hhould thov
hrlbft, noting that Villa and his
compnnlonB nre a group of bandits,
whesu acts the Mexican Govern-1
nient or people would not bo respon
siule for, and that his reproachable
conduct ls duo to Instigations of the
Showed an unpreciaiiie increase '
Prices in The Netherlands, tho
only neutral European counhry
shown, have ilsen steadily within
tho year, but not so rapidly as in
the belligerent countries.
Food on the whole costs 3 per
reactionary element, that, lacking eent- ,1,oro 1" Hie United States now
Patriotism and convinced of fts drf- tuan a vear aB. the bureau esti-
feai, ls trying by all means to brhiRi mates-
on armed intervention. KEVTirnirva n"i...v
"I have not yet received tho an-l ,.,',. .'.,; .,,' ,
swer of tho American Government. ' ..-. .n.u
Frankfort, Ky., March 11.
Clinnl.l tl. r t ..
Amerlpnn for, r ,n,i.i,i . """" l"e ican situation call
n,.rSn ,, mn ., .,,...A,...rop volunteers among tho
r ...... w,.,...u ..u uui.ii.-i iiui'l Afllt Hon T
and from tho reports of my chlofs
along tho frontier I learn that the
to the Mexican authorities; that tho
expedition Is in the nature of a pu
nitlvo campaign, and that tho sov
ereignty of Mexico will be respected.
"The Constitutional Government
has given instructions to Its confi
dential ngeut at Washington Imme
diately to make representations that
Potatoes For Sale.
among tho States.
Tandy Ellis says Ken-
tucky would havo about 2,400 men
from whom to pick. He said tho
military organization In this Stato l3
fairly Voll ofilcerod and tho regi
ments were remarkably full for
peaco times. Field equipment Is
whnt ls needed most, should a call
, bo mado. Gen. Ellis said. None of
liniliiH a t . .... x !
uuuv' "u cuiuBiances win any mo. .,. ,., , .., t. .........
n; s.tis-s-'s? rrrr -
Justify the armed Invasion o Mex ' v0lm teers w u, T'1" J'T
lean territory without reciprocal -B J J01""8 "ou,d have
risiiis ueing granieu to tho JJ(oxI
cans and that not for an Instant will
the Invasion of Mexican territory or
An Investment.
Money spent in road niaklne must
an outrage to Its dignity bo tolerat- uo considered an investment for pos
ed, terity and not a tnx on tho present
"I am sure that In this I Inter- Generation. Kentucky New Era.
prei uio national sentiment and that
the Mexican pcoplo will worthily
comply with their duty, be tho sac-
Corn For Sale,
havo about 500 bushels
of
Iriflcos what they may. to sustain - B0d COr" a,,d 10 bU8,,0,!3 ,,f at
..., ..w w ., Uji luaiureu, .inai IS
r hftvn nh'mit in nn Kn i,.i.,,i their rights and sovorolirnl'v. If un. . ' .
,.i.. nw. T-.t.. -..,"' . V foriii,ntiw -uv . .1 - . Ior Bale- r further particular
Early Oh'lo Irish Potatoes for sale,
I0t3 F, L. FELIX,
fortunately, w0 nro dragged Into a'
war, which the United State never
can Justify. w8 will not be rcrponsl-' in
kin H.L .t, . '"It
call on or address
Gossips ralghf be appropriately , ble for the disastrous consequences. I
termed' misfortune tellora.
F. L. FELIX.
Hartford, Ky.
lut will servo as Instruments, for For cUmjt job prlaUay Tbe Hrrali
