EATHER
VNOZIHV 'XIN30H
Arizona Clearing,
Colder north
NEW VOBK ClTV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
March 8, 25.92.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, No. 249.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, MARCH 15, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
VERDUN STILL
OBJECT OF
TERRIFIC
ATTACK
War's Fortunes Vary as the
French and Teutons Con
tend in Bloodiest Battle of
History; Teutons Suffer.
MANY BATTLES
BY AIR CRAFT
Italians Suffer Severely From
Austrian Arms ; New Mem
ber of Parliament Spurs
England On.
LONDON, March 14. Extremely
heivy drilling has taken place north
west of Verdun and on the outskirts
of Hois des P.uties north of the Aisne
with the Germans the aggressors.
Elsewhere along the llne of artillery
duel.-! of great proportions are under
way. In the sector between Rethin
court and Cumieres, northwest of Ver
dun ,an intense bombardment was fol
lowed by an infantry attack but over
a front of three miles the Teutons
were repulsed by the French with se
rious losses, except between Bethin
court and he Mom Homme, where the
Germans gained a footing at two
points of the French trenches.
The Gennans nort hof the Aisne
threw their troops three times against
the French positions northwest of Bois
ties Runes but none were successful.
In Argonne Forest the French effect
ively shelW the German positions.
North and cast of Verdun artillery du
els continue. Many fights in the air
have taken place at Verdun in which
four Gorman craft were brought down, j
The British evidently are breaking the'
opposition of the Senussi tribesmen,
led by Turkish officers, in western
Egypt:
The Russians are still harassing the.
Turks in the Caucasus frontier but
have made no further progress against
the Teutons in East Calicia. Rus
sians entered German trenches in the
region of Riga, and killed the occu
pants, returning to their own positions
without loss. The Italians are keep
ing up a stiong infantry attack on the!
IsonzD front. Vienna states that near!
San Martino the Italians seven times j COLUMBUS, March 14. Command
tried to storm the Austrian positions ; jng officers of the expeditionary force
RADICAL CRITICISM
LONDON'. March 14. Noel Pember-ton-Billing,
a new member of Parlia
ment, w ho obtained his at at over unit
ed forces of the coalition government
on a platform demanding sweeping)
changes in the air defenses of England j
nuide a strong iTpression in a maiden ! which were assembled here were dis
speech in the House, in which he ie-1 tributed. "Combat wagons" to carry
manded that all existing aircraft be (ammunition and rifles were loaded and
used in raids in the hostile country. thp engineers, signal and hospital
He said England could and must ex-ro,P!, were supplied with the final de
terminate the Zeppelins. He asserted j tBiU 0f their equipment,
that the British possessed a hundred) The commander and stalT were work
tin.es more aeroplanes and pilots than j jnK t high pressure all day complet
at the outbreak of the war. He de-: jnK arrangements. Soldiers not work
manded that they be used and saidijnp thronged every eminence waiting
the airmen are pleading to fight in-eeerlv for a sign of activity on this
ste?d of sitting at home to think. j side 0f the international line. Many
Iti-es the report rame that bodies of
ELUDES RUSSIAN FLEET
ATHENS. March 14. The Turkish
cruiser Sultan Selim, formerly the
German cruiser Goeben, according tojear the border. Apparently authen
Nea Hellas, succeeded in eluding the tic information was received that the
Russian Black Sea fleet and landed i Carranza garrison at Palomas had de-
Gorman officers and guns at
Trebi-.
zond.
j
SUPPRESS CARRANZA PAPER
!
FL PASO, March 14.. Fernando:
Oamiochioi. editor and proprietor of;
Kl Pao Del Norte, the official organ
hpre of the Carranza government, was
the streets to morrow confiscated. Tho
direct cause was an inflamatory arti-
cle in which Gamiochipi called on all i
to prepare to defend themselves a
gainst the "common enemy," and pre
dicted that all factions would unite iT
the I'nited States crossed the border.
"Americans are prepared; Mexicans
roust prepare," was the sentence.
Shortly after Andres Gardin. Mexican
consi'I. lnirried to headquarters and
sked for the release of the editor,
which was refused. Two paners de
voted to the interests of Diaz, have
been recently suppressed by the po
lice as a measure of safety.
HE EMBARRASSED ""I
THE CONGRESSMEN
ft
if
I --iJL J-4
Jeff McLemore tearing U. S. capitol
building.
Jeff McLemore, Texas cow punch
er and printer, who introduced the
warning resolution in the lower
house of congress, has not made a
great hit with some of his colleagues.
Had it not !been for McLemore's
resolution, a lot of congressmen feel
they would not have been compelled
to take a stand on the delicate ques
tion of whether Americans should be
wnmed off armed merchantmen.
Orders at Columbus from Offi
cers in Command State That
Only Lightest Equipment
Shall be Carried.
I such equipment as they can carry on
their backs and saddles, leaving the
surplus "kits" behind. Food and drink
for men and horses, ammunition for
small arms and guns will be the limit
i carried.
Large quantities of ammunition for
mountain howitzers and
field guns
Mexicans were seen maneuvering to
the south, but there is nothing to con
firm the belief that hostile forces are
parted south for an unknown destina-
tion. This force was sent to the fron
ier after the Villa raid.
MAY EXCHANGE PRISONERS
ia vnii.iinn.
egOliailOnR .
LONDON, March
are in progress to exchange all Brit,
jsh prisoners in the hands of Turks,
I'
charge at Philoppopolis of all P.ritish
prisoners in Itulcaria.
VERA CRUZ QUIET
VERA CniTZ. March 14. Everything
I dtiiet. Great praise is given General j
Herlberto Jara. governor of Vera Cruz
whose Judgement was used in the of
ficial declaration concerning the pur
suit of Villa bandits by I'nited tte)!to
r r , . 1 . I
on rf . lor assurance Eivr-n inr rtnirr-
I.fn consul that Americans here will
be protected. Satisfaction is express-
ed in the na-ring of General Aguilar
as secretary of state.
nunni nn "iitph
B m k t
ounriuo iiig
um mini I
mm Mnru
I I W I III! lk.ll
nsi siBinnii ,
UN pun
C a A REPORT
YEAR
Output of Mines of the Calu
met and Arizona Mining
Company Are Contracted
Far Ahead.
FUTURE OUTLOOK
IS PROMISING
Ore Reserves Increased While
Exceedingly Large Tonnage
Was Mined. Peculiar Cir
cumstances Attend Work.
The annual report of the Caiumet
and Arizona Mining company, made
Viiblio yesterday, carries to the many
holders of its shares and to the peoplol
of the Warren District convincing evi-j
dence that the year just passed was(
the most profitable and the largest in j
the history of the organization. j
The report discloses much to be,j
thankful for at the present time and
a forecast of even better lines in the!
future for the District. !
President Charles Briggs, of thai
company, said in part: j
'"The prospects for 1916 are the best
in the history of the company. The;
demand for copper has advanced che
price per pound of electrolytic copper
to a high point and we have entered
into contracts for delivery, over a long
period."
The last phrase in the President's
report is especially encouraging to the
people of the District and to the share
holders of the corporation. The offi-
cial hints lhat the company is sold out,
(far in advance and has secured excell-j
lent prices for the product. i
The Income of the company for tha
year 1915. was $31,683,724.13. The ex
penditures aniounjed to $S.4r.S.128.9.",
I This leaves a net br.lance for the year
of Sa.4ri3.SKl.51- The total assets of
the company, as shown in the report,!
are $40,418,866.82.
Captain John C.
Greenway, manap
ier of Hie C. & A. Cnnin:inv. in his nor. i
r ,v .. ...
null Ul llir 1T-Jlt,ll, M?,
One of the most gratifying results ;
, , , - . .
of the year s work was the further in-
I ;
Liconr ut vui uic irsrnrM ill u.iiii
over the corresponding period of 1914.
althoueh 7"1C77 wet tons of ore were
annougn wet ions oi oie were
mined"
mlnea-
The general manager calls attention
to the fact that during the first threa;
months of the year, 1915. the company
was operating at a fifty per cent capa-
city from beginning to end. In spite j
of this the production was enormous
and the profits equally so. !
The report includes a thorough re-j
siinie nn the u-nrlr done nt tli Ven-'
Cornelia CoDDer ComDanv the build-1
ing and completion of the railroad to i
the new mining camp and other facts j
.n,i f. f . n x. a
stock holders and the general public!
I
LORIMER HFARS
SELF BRANDED
iS THIEF
;
Former United States Senator
from Illinois Facing Trial on
T" I 1 i -I '
....y..
COOK County Court -
'
CHICAGO. March 14.-William Lor-
r wnnA77iMmnr m runs iniM
I i- ... j r-. '
'mer- wuose V'e 1 . nl
tcn..:. -. i
j grounds that It was the result of po- j
j litical crime, listened while an Assis-,
tant States Attorney told the jury in j
j Judge Dever's branch of the criminal ,
court 1 defendant was charged:
wj.. rnnnlmrv unit umliMJvlonimit in I
' i
connection with the failure of the La
OUJir oiirri llUfll UIIU OitV IlKS InillV
ix.r.mcrS ae.ense is sai am ne ..as-,
ed largely on the contention that he.
Blthough president of the institution,
trusted the business largelv to the '
vice president of the institution. C. C.!
Munday. and was absent most of the i
time.
CUMMINS LEADS
ST. PAUL, March 14 Returns up
midnight from Minnesota's first pref
Ar..n.A .1 r-1 r.. n wr- inl.at.il V, A 1 i
.,ii-ifii. '""i- nr.i i,,nt muru
P. Cummins. United States Senator
from Iowa, led Henry Estabrook of
N1' Vork by a wide margin for the
Republican nomination.
RUSS OFFICERS PLAN CAMPAIGN TO PUSH
Left to right: Gen. Tannskrewitch, Gen. Machichevanskjr. GmnU Duke JKehe.Ua. Cm. IHIm. Duke GolUym.
The men pictured in this group are officers hih in command f th Kumumi army nd are among: the
strategists who planned the Russian campaiirri in Asia Minor. Griul !uk Nicholas, iiwlt of the caar and vouc
niander oi the Russian troops in Asia, is seen in the ceiuie of triw gioup. - - , , .
VILLA CDLOHEU!
IDENTIFIED IN
Arturo Gonzales, Former Offi
cer of Now Infamous Rebel,
Was One of Two Who Un
earthed Munitions of War.
TOMBSTONE. March. 14 (Special!
The identity of the Mexican arrest
ed at Calalmsas on SunJny ninrning ,
with the rifles and machine u : t h;.s.
l(e established. He is none other:
t,al1 .rturo Gonzales, who w;:i m
L!eutenont Colonel in Villas army and
ha sheen with him on his raid into,
both Chihuahua and wait w ith him in
his raid into Sonra. Ijiter he went j
Lack into Chihuahua with him. lie:
was the one that admitted at Fairbank
,hat e was at Columbus the morning
or tne. attack, lie with his com nan-
i ion have been taken to Nogales and
"
are being held there. The identity,
of the other .Mexican has not been es-1
, . .
The two men were arrested early,
. t
ounuay morning jusi aner tney naa
! nteril nn old nduhe hniise tiv Ftnireri
Stephens of Patagonia and DenmV .
l ata"nlH ""U ,p,"t way company was called again in the
sheriff Simpson. The Ofticers had ! . ...
i .c j . . . , Superior ourt this morning. The
been notified of the action of the ac- 1 . , . , . . .
tion or the men and watched them. ?se b"1" by ,h "'f!1"1,? fof
When the officers entered the house tdai"aPS 1,1 th- "u,u t,f 30-"
the men had a shovel in their hands j' be dl"' for "Jura's: sustained by the
and one of them had just hung up a!,lainliff Ly beinB lhrown fronl hls
belt of cartridges on the wall. Steph-' in Tombstone canyon near the Laun
ens, who talks Spanish asked the Mex- j dl-. hy alleged bad condition of the
lean where the rest of the ammuni- j tracks of the company at that point.
tion was- The Mexican refused to,
ieply. Simpson then decided to use;
a "ttlp persuasive Mwer and used the!
Vf, ",rtr,.?$?" S.WVt..".'?" .n.4 .the pendant. , ty
vu- ues.reu
effect. The Mexican then told them
,hf,,t WaS u M.10!
trtlt hnov anil hu hufr-in nrtlf -i l 1a '
" c n me
i snovei ana in one corner oi me nousework tni morning.
' aug up aoout tony rnousuna rounas oi
v-mmunilion and in another coner, the
; machine, and in the third corner
' Several cases of rifles.
The men, and their plunder, . were
taken by the officers to Nogales where
K, - . ( 1..1J i ...tn i
; all probability be taken charge of by se' UP 10 ,n r,tl1 of lh,t nnio n
I the Vnited States authorities. An ef-lolner (a!"" coming in almost dai-
fort will be made by Government Se-, 'v hat crry he ,erni over until
j cret service men to connect Gonza- that date.
I les with the killing at Columbus, and j During last year the Jury was in at
' he will no doubt he taken back to -tendance before the court for nearly
Ts'ew Mexico to answer the charge of I two hundred days or to be exact, 197
murder through the State courts orjdays. It is expected that this year it
through the United States couts.
A brother of Aurto Gonzales was in :
lul.son aurlng tMe past wt,eh 1)Ut dls- j
appeared frouj that city Sunday night
and has not been seen since, although
.... offlri.1 ,,. h(.nn ,
cate him- As 80on as Arturo wa8 "'l
rested the officers endeavored to In-' . . .......
cate iPrfe-to but he had "flown." He' "rlle agents of the I'nited States Gov
was .with Villa for some time but left 'eminent have begun work investigat-
t,e iatter wa3 at Nogules, but fins 'he shipping of intoxicating liqpor
it ,aH )eeil jjown for oine ,me that ' into the state that has been mislabel-
he WM8 frielluiv With him.
. ,
'. mm fiis uiiu ciiiipsm were uusy yes- ;
- .t. - rday with other officers between!
,'I - ttruk ann Vnva uo Irviita n ls..
I another bunch of Mexicans who WOri '
roporten to ,,e on ,,,r wav to the Itne
wilh a ,t of arnls and anlmmii,i.
SHIVELY DIES
W ASHINGTON. March 14 Senator i
Benjamin Shiely of Indiana, died at
the hospital after months of illness.
His death was announced in the Sen-
ate which immediately adjourned as
!l tlinrlr rt f.r.Pft
Shively was the ,
, - .
yanking majority member of the For- j
eign Affairs Committee. Until! etrick-
I en '!!. he took a prominent part in up-
holding the Administration.
SUSPECTED OF SPYING.
COLl'MBl'S, March 14.
Alfredo Aragon. a Mexican who
was a waiter in the Columbus
Hotel was arrested and taken
to Denting by federal officers
charged with having a V. S.
army uniform and a quantity
of goods taken from the stores
during the Villa raid. Suspic
ion that Aragon is one of Villa's
guides is found iu the fact he
was absent from the hotel for
several hours prior to the raid.
Several others were arrested on
suspicion but were released.
334
WHITT DAMAGE CASE
NOW BEING TRIED BY
THE SUPERIOR COURT
i Second Hearing of Case That
r ...
Arose Over Automobile
Turning Over in Tomb
stone Canyon, in Progress.
TOMBSTONE, March 14. (Special)
Thr. i1mhm"m case of L. Willard
.... ... ... . .
The case will in all probability take at
least two days to try. The plaintiff
is represented by Messrs. Williams
( .Ms.rs. DeAutremont ana uarry ric
ifcelt.
The ""ial j,",,rs h h8Ve haV
- . . .
IPK a rew (jayg Jay 0n:. returned to
There are at the
i present, time Jhirty-six of them on the
j panel. They will be held here until
jthe middle of April. The criminal
(calendar will commence on the 17th
and will take until the 8th of April to
complete, v ases nave aireaay Deep
will run over the two hundred day
mark a the litieation is beine filed
rapidly and the jury has already this
yQW , jn about gix,y da and tnere
n,lari.. ,hirv mnr in n?hi hfme
thirty more n sight befoie
iih tirppnl tiunpl will h tlisf harirPd-
M " i- u 7
I"d or the contents of the trunks and
:t j j i- -.
Doxes ana inienu noi omy iu ri mirr
the consignee but the cousisner. Yes-
. U U ..t. L... K..
titifl hin s.ft?fi ut IjiwpII that hurt
bwn ,,, from K) Paso w),re Mp.
, d bm.k , h1 , t of ,he raiIroad
i' ..... j ,,. t.
company at Kl Paso and will by h.m
be turned over to the government.
.agents. The boxes were addressed to
K. K. ungues at i.owen anu were
! 1 I ..i I.- ft ., . I . n
known that the next V. S. Grand Jury
at Tucson ubicb convenes soon is to
take some action in this line as In-
vestigatious bave been made by ru
Revenu men as to 8hJrmnS tht
have been made into tlie state. Quite
a Dtinjber of Cochise County citizens
'will p called to testily nefore thai
TURKS TO THE WALL
PERSHING WAITS
FOR ORDER TO
MOVE SOUTH
No Troops Have as Yet Cross
ed the Border Yet Every
UUng IS U1 apparent iveaui-. Mexican sources indicated Villa bad
ness for Advance. I already been sourrounded by Carranza
j soldiers. Carranza is apparently
SAN ANTONIO. March 14. The ; strenous'.y endeavoring to anticipate
placing of a strict embargo on news j the Americans. It is reported from
out of Columbus where the main body, several sources that Carranza has
of General Pershing's pnitive force is concentrated more thun 10,000 troops
awaiting orders to cross the border in about the different points win-re Villa
search of Villa, was today's important ; is supposed to be.
development at Fort Sam Houston) OBVera of the Tenth Cavalry left
where General Funston is arranging : toT Columbus. Shortly after their de
final details of the expedition. Giving parture. it was learned the passage of
as his reason that news dispatches j transport trains betce..i hire and
wer rv.rtl-.ins put-lie e-yntipl fri Columbus had ceased,
which he is trying to keep secret from : ru-y r practically the last corps
Villa. Funston sent orders to Persuing officers stationed here. The sioppaire
to seize the telegraph office at Colum -
bus, guard telephone wires and watch
closely all routes to nearby telegraph
stations.
After stating that no troops had
crossed the border, Funston instituted;
a close censorship on all proceedings
at Kort Sam Houston. Oncp Pershing
has crossed the border it is indicated
that the public will be kept adequately
nformcd. Th Mexican consul gener
al at licit ran telegraphed every Mexi
can official in Texas and New Mexico
not to do or say anything that might
complicate the situation.
Transfer Pershing from El Paso to
Colu'iibus necessitated transfer Prig
adier General Ceorce Itell. Jr.. in com
mand of the Fifth Brigade, with head
quarters here, to rowniand at El Paso.
,--ir,-.".''--fi'-!-'-J.v.i - v '
... . .
hjv .-i,n it ,t nA rh,. , .
numhr m-hfi .ill not h .IUH hfnr
that, body directly but -will be called'
n ' later to answer to indictments.
ound by that body.
Bring in Liquor.
Constable Jud Pruitt of Ilowie yes- ;
terday brought over -two parties charg-'
cd with introducing liquor into the I
state. They gave their names as D. E. '
Welch and Dan Johan when they reg-1
Istered at Hotel Wheeler. They were
caught with two suit cases each as ,
'hey stepped from thP train at Bowie.
Iloth hare intimated that they intend '
to enter pleas of fcuilty. Constable
Pruitt also caught a young man of
Powie named Lawrence on Saturday i
night bringing in two cases in his an-1
fomobile. He was given an examina- i
tion at twwie before Judge Thompson
and held under $:'00 bail which he fur
nished.
Wat Discharged. I
After a trial lasting all day the in-!
sanity commission decided that Jack (
Howard of Dos Cabezas was not in
sane and ordered his discharge. A .
complaint was filed against him by
parties in Dos Cabezas alleging bis in-,
sanity that he had made threats a-
gainst them and that he was danger-:
ous to b. at large. Although there I
were about twenty witnesses examin-j
ed. the commission did not deem it ,
sufficient to warrant his being com-'
mitted to the asylum.. It is feared.
however, that trouble will result be-1
tween the two factions over in that i
camp as a result of the trial as con-1
iderable bitterness has developed, j
more so than was already existing. I
- , . j the'r raid on Columbus. He escaped
SLOCUM HAS ADMIRERS. ! when the retreat was started. '!e de
FORT WOFTH. Tex.. Msrch 14 i clsre that before the attack w
Fort TVerih admirers bave sUrted ' made Villa ninde a speeeh, w-hicS
fund to purchase a sword for Colonel j infltmed the men they wept, and
Slocutu. commander at Columbus, N.I shrieked and tot down on the ground
M., at the time of the Villa raid. 'and beat the earth with their fists.
TROOPS 11
MOVE INTO
i BO Oil
KENT
Thick Veil of Secrecy Sur-
. rounds Actions of the U. S.
T At .U
troop ziong uie mexican
Border.
i LITTLE DEFINITE NEWS
i TV rT- II 1 n rvm t rt rr--
Negro Who Had Been Held by
Villa and Who Escaped at
Columbus Arrives in, El
Paso and Tells Story.
j EL PASO, March H Throuxh a
I thick veil of censorship established by
j Funston stitticient information leaked
I to confirm the belief that the advance
J guard of the expeditionary force may
start in a frw hours in pursuit of
Villa. The main force may not stare
!
u't wauea wun seen expectancy
word that the I'nited States soldiers
I I V,o .1.. K 1... c
: of trains and port trains is regarded
' as practically significant. Their
: movement never ceased night or day
'since the first news of the Columbus
l rawl-
,n,s 'PPase is now taken to mean
,he concentration of supplies at Col-
umbus llas bt''n practically completed,
! lnK ' tne censorship Utile definite
! new reaching here from Columbus
was brought by incoming passengers.
, They report that while military aiti
vities are being carried forward at
i ft-verish speed, indications wre that
' it would be some l;is at least before
the main punitive force could- be
moved. It is considered likely that
rome advance scouting parties
will
cross the border within a day.
A number of moving picture men
surried out of here today believing
jthe crossing was about to be effected.
i They returned disappointed. It is rc-
P"eil mat general
Pershing, com
manding the expedition, issued posi
tive orders tnat no picture- be taken.
There is a strong undercurrent of ex
citement along the bonier stirred by
news that a Southern Pacific train
had been fired upon, at Helen. Texas.
17 miles east of here. Conductor
Topers, in charge yf the ti'jin. said
several shots had bca t?rt d from un
derbrush near the station. El Paso
police continue to arrest Mexicans,
who are supposed to be in communi
cation with Villistas. Eleven former
officers or cabinet ministers of Villa
are now jailed. There is no disturb
ance of anykind here.
The apprehension felt bv the Ameri
can population is indicated by the
heavy sales of guns and ammunition
d(rini; tne Ust (l.w davs Cun SUne
j rpr,,,! lhry had almost completely
, ilwrwi,! of miinumillnn Tin il;-
abled automobiles were towed here
from lanrak. 20 miles west on the
border. They were used by three
railroad officers ho attempted to
drive here Sunday from Columbus.
They were chased by Mexicans. They
boarded a train after distancing the
attackers.
Mrs. J. J. Moore, wife of the ranch
er killed during the retreat of the
Villistas from Columbus, left for her
home in Rucyrus. Ohio. She was
wounded in on leg by a bandit. She
had her rings torn from her fingers.
She was left for dead near the corpse
of her husband.
Edwin R. Spencer, a negro, arrived
from Hachita. N. M. He said he l"ad
been a captive of Villa's men before
