ferF,"; ap 'Vf-wipr
v
n
1
Sfmej
OME
WEATHER FORECAST:
ProUWy Snqw Twiifht,
(Full Report on Page Two.)
fDITION
.c
r",li
-L
?
WASHINGTON, WEDOTSAaY frVNING, MAuOti: ltf itftG.
PBICKONBOIGNT.
NTJMBEH 8840.
LONE BANDIT RAIDS
-A-";
.
Hie watogfa it
. RIGID CENSORSHIP
VEILS BORDER;
TOWN IN U. S.
U'
Ifr
SENATE PROMPTLY
PASSES
Unmodified Measure to Go to
President at Once for His
. Signature.
ROLL CALL IS ORDERED
Resolution Adds 20,000 Men to
Forces for Service on Mexi
can Border.
Br unanimous rotB, the Senate this
afternoon passed a resolution asked for
bv tho War Department authorizing in
.crease of the army organizations to war
strength and thus providing for an acldl.
tlonal 20,000 men for service along the
Mexican border.
The Senate acted after brief discus
alon. The House passed the resolution
last night The Senate did not modify
ARMY BILL RAO) KRUPP WORKS:
BYUNANIHSVOTE DESTROY SIX SHEDS
Jt. and It Mil promptly go to the Presi
dent for his signature.
Roll Call Taken.
, . Contrary to the usual practice when
there Is no opposition to a measure, a
roll call was taken. This was done at
the request of Senator Galling er, Repub
lican leader In the Senate. After the
resolution had been debated a short time
Senator Galllnger said:
"Mr. President: In order that It may
be demonstrated that there are no (po
litical dlffeerncea In this chambervWhen
the Interests of the country are at
stake, I ask for the yeaa and nays."
Vice President Marshall, accordingly,
''ordered that the roll be called. Not. a
single vote was recorded In the nega
tive. After the resolution bad been adopted
Senator Mcv,umber said:
"I am glad we have had the oppor
tunity of r yea and nay vote dn this
question to .show that while we will do
all we can to preserve the peace of tho
country with other nations, when condi
tions do arise and it becomes necessary
to uphold our right, then Congress
stands as a single man undivided In
defense of the rights of American citi
zens." ,
Its Moral Effect.
It Is the general belief of members
of the Senate that tho prompt action
of Congress in favor of the resolution
would have an important moral effect
on Mexico, and that it might prevent
trouble wtn the Carranza forces.
Previous to the action of the Senate
en the emergency resolution, the MUl
. tary Committee met and considered Uie
army bill. It made Important progress,
and Senator Chamberlain said that he
believed the committee, which met
again this afternoon, would be able to
complete tho bit! by tonight.
The resolution for the Increase of
the army was taken up by the Senate
. afeortly after the session opened.
Senator Cronna at first objected to
consideration. But Senator Chamber
lain urpad the importance of imme
diate consideration and Senator Cron
. na withdrew hlu objection.
Senator lloko Smith preoented an
amendment to provide that the en
listment under the resolution rhould
be1 for two vears with the colors, the
'bnlan.eo of tho four-year period to bo
In the reserve. He said he would not
Firess It If it would hinder the reso
utlon. ' du Pont Explains.
Senator du Pont explained that the
new military legislation would deal with
this subject, and Senator Smith there
upon aald he would not press his
amendment.
"I will urge this matter In the Sen
ate later," said senator Smith. "I am
opposed to long-time enllstmonts and
muklnar men Into permanent soldiers. I
believe that part of the enlistment
period of soldiers should be devoted to
'preparation for civil life."
I Senator Vardaman ald the Secretary
of War had stated tlie additional men
iv ere needed, una ne penovea me reso
lution should he passed promptly for
Its effect. .
"It would have an excellent moral
effect," said Senator Vardaman. "I
think it ought to bo passed promptly
that preparation may be made for the
campaign the Mrmv Is now starting on."
Senator Newlsnds entered Into a dla
, russlon of the question of national
defense.
Mail Held Up By
Railroad Strike
HATTlESnilRO, Mls, March 13.
"XVIth the mall held up here and disturb
ances all nlong tho line to Jackson.
Miss., the strike situation on the Gulf
and Shin Tnjand Is growing serious to
day. An Inlunctlon was Issued bv the Fed
eral rourt ut Meridian restraining
I, strikers ti'.d their nympathUers from
' Interfc-lnv: v. lth train operations. .Ne
groes are being ued to renlacp. whlto
(legmen.
, The mayor has Issued a proclamation
warning boys off the streets at nlsht.
Manv mllea of road are shut down,
and several milts have suspended ai a
result Though several trains have
been stopped, trainmen deny interference.
ALLIES' AVIATORS
Aero Squadrons Attack Essen,
Gladbaoh, and Munich, Am
sterdam Says.
LONG AERIAL JOURNEY
Essen Attaok Involved Travel
ing 170 Miles North
French Lines.
of
LONDON, March 15, Allied aviators
have raided Essen, home of the Krupp
gun works, according to dispatches
from Amsterdam today.
Other air squadrons have attacked
Munich, capital of Bavaria, and the
city of Oladbach. the dispatches said.
The news has not been confirmed by
the war office, but aroused great en
thusiasm here. Since the beginning of
tho war aeronautic experts have been
urging a great allied aerial raid on
tho Krupp works at Essen, which lies
about 1T0 miles north of the French
lines at Verdun.
Tho Germans are known to have
taken great , precautions to guard
against air raids, both on Dsaen and
on Oladbach, about thirty miles south
west of Essen, where German machine
guns and munitions are manufactured
In large quantities.
If reports of the air raid on Munich
am confirmed, the raldlnr fllera hare
made one of the longest bomb-dropping
AVTMifMMftn. nf . tk. wai. fiiMlnh II,. '
nearly MO mites east of 'the French
lines in Upper Alsace.
The allied aviators destroyed six
sheds at Essen, tile Amsterdam Tele
graf reported. '
The city of .Oladbach o also known aa
Mumchen-Gladbach.The German name
of Munich 1 ''Muenchtn-"
It Is -possible that the Amsterdam
cables to London meant to say that
the cltlea of Essen and Munchn-Qld-bach,
with a few miles of each other,
were raiaea, nut tnc translations enr-
llsh and- the cable
iransmissioq maaa
the mesaagts read
bach " i-
"Muntch and Glad.
Osborne Cleared;
Charge Dismissed
Supreme Court Justice's Action
Is Regarded as Complete
Vindication.
WHITE PLAINS. N. T March 15.
The Indictment against Warden Thomas
Mott Osborne, of Sing Sing Prison,
charging perjury, was dismissed today
by Supreme Court Justice Tompkln
before the defense was to begin pre
senting Its case.
Justice Tompkins quashed two counts
of Osborne's motion to dismiss; first,
that the Dledllng investigation, before
which he was alleged to nave conynlt-
ieci perjury, naa no auinonty to in
quire Into prison conditions, and, sec
ond, that the perjury charge had not
been proved.
Osborne's frlonds regard the dismissal
an complete vindication, and predicted
his speedy return to active charge of
Sing Sing prison.
Osborne said he would make a for
mal statement of his plans this after
noon. George Gordon Battle, his chief
counsel, Issued the following statement
at once: "The result Is very gratifying,
because the decree Is based on the find
ing that Osborne did not commit ner-
Jury, because Dr. Dledllng had no right
to put him under oath and no right to
question him. The court's decision up
holds the contention of the defense that
Osborne had no intention to deceive, his
attitude being merely that he would
not betray the confidence of prisoners."
The motion to dismiss was made at
the opening of the trial, but Justice
Tompkins deferred his ruling until the
evidence of the State had been pre-
seniea
Whether the auaahlnsr of the ner.
tury inuicimem win aiso mean un
lorne's exoneration on the misman
. . . j.. " . - -... -v ----- r -.
jry Indictment will also mean Os-
agement charge was not Known.
.Osborne announced he would ask
Justice Tompkins tomorrow for an
early trial of the remaining charges
resulting from the same nvestlga
tlon alleging mismanagement and im
morality, LION OF MARCH IS
READY FOR PARADE
Look out for March's lion!
He Is due to arrive In the Capital to
night bringing with him rain and snow,
sharp nqrthwest winds, low tempera
tures, .and all the various kinds of un
pleasant weather for which the beast Is
noted. Persons who are going to bo out
of doors this afternoon or tonight, will
do well to take with them overcoats,
umbrellas, rubbers, and other parapher
nalia that Is used to withstand foul
weather, according to Forecaster H. C.
Frnhkenfleld, of the Weather Bureau.
The rain la expected to turn Into snow
late this afternoon, and this will be ac
companied by a sharp drop In the mer
curv and a strong, biting wind from the
northwest. Tho clouds will be chased
away by morning, declares the fore
caster, and tomorrow Is expected to be
fair and cold with a continuation of the
wind. The temperature tonight Is fix
peeted to go down around 30 degree.
OFFICER'S WHO HAVE GONE'
- - ... -.
BBBBBBBBBBBsKmiSii 4?BBBBBBBBBBX SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSsTntSsllllsSSSSSSSSSsU&SSSSSSSSSS.
LLLLLW :1 ' "TiWBaSSlLTr - SSSSSSSSSSSSSsVYvX JLHIsSSSSaSSsHlHsflsSSSSSSSSSSSEHBa$flnBlSSSSSs!
'wJSSSSSSSSSSSSSSST ?WWS3BBBBBBBBBlKt' SSSSSSSSSSSSSSBVIM BSBBBIHBHRBBBBIBSBBIBRiVBBBBBBBBBBBBBmlplwRSflMBBBBi
IIIssssssssssssssssssssHk ' 'sssissifiklt sssssssssWMsaMIII WIBtBBnSsSmftKtBUSB3K.'v!M
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSBSBKBBBBMrr SBBBBBBBBBBBHkSP1RbHIBBSBhY'BLSbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbBB1
XXXvSSflBBBBBBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaWsr&IXiSBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBSar BSBBMftaYSlBlBSBBRaBSnBBBBBBBTaBBBBBBMBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
YvwIsssssssssssssIsssssssKIeIjsssssssssssssssssssKt ssaiHssWRflHllillsHLsssssssssssssssssssssssl
MmKfyy sMsisHBfwHirBHH
Mr r nmmatM gvtro aiaBBiiiiiiiDBSIBPABBBVAaBHamGEBBBBSasliiiaBiaiiiiBiiiiiiiiiH
MAJ. MELVIN W. ROWELI
MEUSE OFFENSIVE
HALTED. SAYS PARIS
Vicious Counter Attacks on
West Bank Check Expected
Advance.
LONDON, MorcX JB. Vlcfous French
rnnnlr-ttnrk have halted the new
German offensive launched yesterday on
the west bank of tne Mouse, nonn
?at r Vorrtitn Recording to Official
dispatches from Paris this afternoon.
The French war office statement is
apparently confirmed In the official
statement from the German war omce.
Berlin claims further gains by Blleslan
regiment west of Crow's Wood, and
the capture of 1,025 French prisoners,
and reports tho repulse of four French
.Aiini.r.iituriii. These sains, it Is ap
parent, are those admitted in the French
official statement given out loot night.
The Germans did not return, to the at
tack last night, tne rroncn wr u...w
asserts. Both Positions Held.
r. j. irtrhi rnnflrm the report
that the Germans attempted to encircle
Bethlncourt and Dead Man Hill, after
thirty-six hours' artillery preparation
Both positions are firmly held by the
French, tne jrrencn wor umuo ---nounces,
as well aa the village of Cuml-
eres, east of Dead Man tun.
In announcing that tne jrencn noiu
"the southern edge of Cumlerea wood,"
the Paris war office, however, admtts
for the first time that the GerroaVis
have recaptured a portion of the forest.
French counter-attacKs fans reporw,
recaptured positions taken by the Ger
mans on Hill 265. the northeastern spur
of Goose Hill.
An English position near Neuve t-hap-elle,
with Its occupants, waa blown up
by a mine, the German war office re
ports. Berlin also announces the destruction
of two French aeroplanes northwest of
Verdun and one English biplane near
Bapaume.
From Athens comes Information that
large German detachments are moving
from Macedonia, and Serbia to the
western front.
German Wedge Driven
In French Verdun Line
LONDON. March 15.-Oermn troops
have driven a wedge In the Frenoh
front between Bethlncourt and Dead
Man Hill, according to Berlin dis
patches, transmitted through Amster
dam today.
Bethlncourt, Berlin asserted, Is near
ly two. thirds surrounded and a slight
German advance will force Its evacua
(Continued on Page Fourteen.)
BETTER, MEXICANS
NOT ANTI-AMERICAN
Conditions Quiet Below Monterey,
Travellers Tell texans.
LAREDO, Tex.p March 15, A number
of Mexicans, arriving here from points
In Mexico aa far south as Quaretaro,
report having conversed with General
Carranza as late as Sunday.
They stated conditions In Mexico be
low Monterey are quiet, and that the
better 'class Mexicans are praising the
United States for Its determination to
eliminate Villa.
News la withheld from the peon class,
however, to preclude -the possibility of
an uprising.
Mayor McComb Issued a warning to
citizens to go Into their homes and
remain behind closed doors If disorder
develops and soldiers patrol the streets.
, isiBiBBiieiiw .r w kah r nihin
asBBBBBBBssHir-'&. - "aatssssBViaonniljEsssnaMsssssssassssssssssssl
("H ;''A;.;' a -u'hliililliiiiiiiHBBiiiiiiH
.H iwm-HBp V'IpijiIIbIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
raBkit KbIIIIHIIIIIbIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHbIIIIIIIIIIW '
BlIIIHiiBMlMt'jBltBlllHBllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllV
K'-IbHb bebibbIHbIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIk'sIIIIIIIv
BBSBSBSBm."-! twSBallUI "1 COiXWWJT
HHHHkHH MAJ. CHARLES S. FABNS-
KBHB worth.
iiMnHiiJrinjpnnoiiin mom
MAJ. ROBERT L. HOWZE.
Washington's Army Circle Is
Being Rapidly Depleted by
the Mobilization.
Washington's army circle Is being
rapidly depleted by the mobilization on
the border and the organization of the
punitive expedition to Mexico. A. num
ber of officers are either leaving dr
have left for the border.
Major Robert L. Howze and Major
Melvln W. Rowell, of the Eleventh
Cavalry, and Major Charles S. Farns-
worth and Major James T. Moore, Six
teenth Infantry, all left for Columbus,
N. M last night.
All were bn duty at the Army -War
(jonege. They will Join tneir regiments
at Columbus.
Orders have not been Issued for the
movement of the Fifth Cavalry or the
artillery at Fort Myer. The Fifth
Cavalry la being held under orders to
be readi; tp move at a moment's notice,
fcech of 'the four majors from the
War College left his family In Wash
ington. Major Howie lives at 1SU
Twenty.first street northwest, Major
Howell at 703 Nineteenth street north
west, and Majors Farnsworth and
Moore at the Cumberland.
ADOPTS HUSBAND'S
NAMELESS CHILD
Wife Says She Blames Man More
Than tho Girl.
CHICAGO, March lB.-Mrs. Charles
Stockwell, herself childless, today
adopted her husband's child, born to an
unu-arrtcd girl, Mls Oertrude Rhodes.
For two months previous to the birth
of the child Mrs. Stockwell nursed the
girl, and when the baby waa born asked
the court of domestic relations If she
could adopt It. Mrs. Stockwell also In
sisted that her .husband pay the girl
W0. which the Illinois law allows an
unwed mother fro mthe father of her
child,
"I blame my husband, more than t
do thQ girl," said Mrs. Stockwell. "The
burden of caring for the baby 1 will
gladly assume myself."
Berlin Denies Plan to
Abandon U-Boat'War
AMSTERDAM. March 15,-An official
statement telegraphed Here from Berlin
today makes absolute denial of fresh
rumors that Germain1 p!nns to abandon
or postpone the new submarine war 911
armed merchantmen.
FOUR MAJORS QUIT
D. C. FOR BORDER
TO BORDER '
PoNMBtlGllli
War Department Clamps on
Lid Most Rigid in United
States History.
.."Somewhere in Mexico" promises to
be the most overworked date line tn
American newspapers from today and
until pancho Villa Ja taken.
.The War Department's censorship
program Is completely In effect.
The lid is tight. Secretary of War
Baker Maj. Oen. Hugh L.' Scott, chief
of staff, arid Capt. If. N. Cootes are
sltUng on lt-'at this end. At the frotat.
Major General Funston. Brigadier Gen
eral Pershlngi uid one other officer are
deciding what the war correspondents
can and cannot send.
.The present censorship !, the most
rigid In the-history 'Of 'the country; it
ls.Mn fact, the first real censorship
. hii.hH Vhr was little or no
censorship during the civil war.
Th-telcraph was .then In Its child
hood, and bx .the time newa reached,
the papers from the batt cflelds ttju
too stale to be. of value to the enemy.
uurlng the upanisn war " ,;:.
degree of news 'censorship, but "ie
policy was not as rigorous as today.
There waa no. wireless In IMS. and the
various scene of action were too far
away to make news a menace to Anw
lean arms on land or sea. 1.n,.hi
America's -first military 5nlorh';
was experienced during the Vera Lrua
occunaAton. but It waa nothing like the
Stygian darkness produced thlsweek.
Members of the ganeral staff today
poln; out that far greater care Is to be
taken und'r' Preaent conditions than If
the Unlted States andrMexlee .wars .at
war. In that .event the United states
could control all meana of communica
tion Into I Mexico. The present being
merely" a bandit chase, so to sepak.
commercial wire's Into theaou ft re
publican cannot be Interfered with. Any
mcftage Villa's agents In tho United
States want to send him must be sent
through unless, of course, they are ob
viously Improper. ,, ., , . ..
There la no censorship on dispatches
sent fro many point that Is not Included
In the xono from which the expeditions
Into Mexico start and from those seo
tlons In Mexico through which Ameri
can troops ore advancing. Correspond
ents can send messages without regard
for the .censorship from any other points
along the border or from Interior pplnts
In Mexico. For Instance, correspond
ents In Mexico. City can send dispatches
thut will not be Interfered with by the
army censors, provided 'they do not en
ter the United States through a point
which has been taken over by the mili
tary either aa a supply base or as an
entering point.
Locked in Tomb With
Body of His Dead Wife
MONTPBL1BR. ,Vt., March 15.-
Iflcked In a tomb which contained the
dead body of his wife. P. Chcntte strug
gled for four hours .before he was able
tp pry open tne neavy aoor ana escape
Clerk Good Plow Womkn.
LONDON, March 15. One of the most
ruccessful plow women among those do
ing "war farm work" in the Louth dis
trict of Lincolnshire previously worked'
long years In a' dry goods shop.
REPORTED
BY CARRANZA TROOPS
ABSOLUTELY DENIED
A
) -
Military Authorities Take Charge of all Tele
graph Lines to Washington Points and
Prevent Confirmation of Reports of
' Troop Movements.
EL PASO, Tex., March 15. A military censorship
unparalleled in the history of the American army, gripped
the borde rwith such secrecy today that none but military
officials know definitely this afternoon whether an Amer
ican invasion of Mexico has begun.
Reports that 5,000 Carranzistas had captured Ha
chitaN. M., seemed to have been disposed of by a state-'
ment from the El Paso and Southwestern railroad offices
that its wires were working to Hachita and all was reported
quiet there.
The railroad reported a Vilista bandit looted a few
homes in the outskirts of Hachita, leading to the report
that the town had been captured.
The Mexican consulate here also denied thatjarran
, 2ista troops had occupied Hachita. , ..,r. l
despite rumors from a score of points that theinva?"
sion in pursuit of Villa has started, the telegraph lines to
Columbus, N. M., and other points of troop mobilization
were held in such strict hands that nothing could be con
firmed. GENERAL PERSHING IN CONTROL.
Control of telegraph and telephone
lints has been taken over by the forces
under Brig. Geo. J. J. Pershing.
A long distance call to Columbus
brought tie reply from central ' that
he wm under censorship as well aa
very one In the community.
Censored telegraph reports from Co
lumbus told of preparations there to
establish a base for the operations In
pursuit of Villa.
Railroad switches were, being built
and bridges were being constructed.
Troop movements were not even men
tioned. Reference to the arrival of
the aero squadron from San Antonio
with its consort of lorries waa permit
ted with the additional noU that It Is
teh first time that aeroplanes may be
tried under actual conditions of war
fare. The Unltfd Press staff correspond
ent in Columbus waa permitted tn
telegraph at 9'I0 a. m. today that It
will b perhaps a week nftr he goen
In with tho troops before the tensor
will permit htm to send any details.
This messago did nut necessarily
contradict rumors that the expedition
hni started because "wav" qorren-
Bnndents warn not expected to enter
le.xlcn with th vanguard.
Fort Rllss would not discuss the ru
mors that the troops had crossed the
border during the night near Colum
bia and Just east rf .Dounlan ArU.
The evacuation of Palomas, six miles
Pursuit of Villa Has
Begun at Last, Report
The pursuit of Villa Is believed to
have started at lan
Private adxlcee from Oouglas. Ariz.,
contain what cui ports to ,bc authorita
tive Information that the vancuard of
Funston's forces, consisting of a large
detachment of cavalry and mountain
artillery, crossed the border at Culber
son's ranch In the "lower square" of
New Mexico, at daybreak today
With a rglrous censorship In force the
Wnr Depaitment prtfetses to have no
confirmation of the movement. ' Of
fllclnls thero admit, hMn-ver. that Gen
tral Funston will niolmbly withhold an
official report intll his forces are well
acrose the line.
Official Washington is expectantly
awaiting the first news of a clash.
Although gratified by the accepunco
by Carranza of the reciprocal border
crossing arrangement between the two
governments, officials at the War De
partment confidently expect that the de
velopments of the next few hours will
determine to what extent Carranza can
hold his followers In line.
Congress Is prepared to stand behind
the President whatever happens. Fol
lowing the action of the House yester
day In authorizing ttae President to re-
INVASION'
south of Columbus, where the main di
vision Of the Villa expedition was mob
ilized, waa announced by Consul Garcia
at the consulate here. Their withdraw
al, to Guzman was In accordance with
the statement made by Qen. Lula Gut
ierrez that General Rertanl's force at
Palomas would Join In the Carranza
pursuit of Villa.
Garcla's statement that forty Carran
aista soldiers had been left in Palomas
to 'garrison tho border town seemed to
discredit rumors that the American
forces had entered Mexico, unless tho
de facto government haa decided to
cope with the United States expedltioa
ary forces.
Reliable reports from Cases Grandes,
Moxlco. stated that a number of '.h
Carranza garrison there had deserted
and Joined Villa to fight the Americans.
Bishop Hurst, of the local Mormon
cnurch, announced that, according- to
his Information. Villa was In the viola
Ity of the Mormon colony at Casus
Cliandcs, with whom Bishop Hurst nad
comrnunicaiea mis morning.
He said th colonists were safe then,
but that Villa "wis hovering In the
vicinity."
The bishop had hopes the Carranzlata
soldiers, Mltli tho Colonists, would es
ct.rt them safely to Pearson, Chihua
hua, where a train (n the Mexican
Northwestern lino was waiting to bitng
them tr, the boder. Damngn tn tl)o line
let ween Coiralltos und fiablnel, where
Villa was reported tc have lorn up con
siderable of th" right of way, haa been
repaired. Tvn froltjht trains stalled: by
the break were movluc toward Jinrex,
clearing .tho way for the expected Mor
mon trMn.
Unconfirmed rtrorts Inilst that artl
Aferlcan sentiment umt-nr the tr mi I: and
file of the Carmnta army In Chihuahua
Stale was growing.
i?j;ult Jh...armY. t0 ,u" ar strength by
forces of the nation, the Eonate today
f r. "" .K unniious consent to rati.
IV tit nilMltltrt rt th. Ia,.. 1.- i
Anticipating this favorable action, the
War Department has opened recruit
ing stations in all parts or. the country
and reports are already beginning to
come In of a heavy enlistment.
Secretary Uaker, it was stated today,
has practically decided to ask Congress
tor an emergency appropriation or, from
5l,COO.yoo to 2,ooo,K to covr tho extraor
dinary expensea of the expedition.
Automobile factories ure working
overtime to execute an order for the
Immediate delivery on the border or
fiflj-four automobile trucks to he used
in supplying the expedition with pro
vlilons and ammunition from the Amer
ican border bases.
Sensational Reports.
Sensational roports concerning the un
eusluess among Carranza soldiers in
northern Mexico continue to reach
Washington In press dispatches, none
of which, however, has received con
firmation at the State or War Depart
ments. The carranza garrison at OJlnaga. ep
poslte Presidio, Tex., Is reported to
