t A .... J. A , J A, A.
J. TntTfiKDGER i an Admitting
! medium Hint brings result. Onr j
I Mica nro consistent TrltTi circa- !
Intlnn. Hooks open (o Inspection. !
J. .J
.!.! !! !
ntr.Ktv ttr.PvnT.KAX-nn.
( ail r rvnuo i.mmnn-xit
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MARCH IB, 1010.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
j ' .citiickyW1nelnr i.rnh- IJ II I I I lESIlmllJli'flS TP I I I I I I I
1 t WmBBi JVVUV V
IK
si
if
-
Hey, dlddl.o diddle,
Gum shoes la tlio fiddle.
Chimin Clnrk Jumped over tlio moon;
Little Mann laughed to sco the sport,
But Woody got nway with tho spoon.
WM.L, now nn hi: wixi
Portland, Mo., March 15. Pour out
ot the flvo city elections In Mnlno wcro
won by the ncpubllcnns. Tho only
Democratic success was In Blddeford,
whero Leopold A. alard was chosen.
Tho successful Republican mayors are
Blaine S. VIIcb, In Augusta; John P.
Woodman, In Bangor; Frank H. Nick
crson, In Brewer, and William K.
Kecnc, in Belfast
SPECIAL MISSIONARY PHOflR.Uf.
Tho Epworth League o( tho Aber
deen church will give a missionary
:.. program Thursday night nt tho church,
t Eleven church will bo represented and
an Interesting program with special
) music will bo given. Tho public Is
cordially Invited to come.
Mrs. T. B. Kennedy died Sunday at
Pittsburg. She was a resident of this
city about ten years and has numer
ous friends and relatives here.
HTHAW8 STILL POINT.
Washington, March IB. Political
straws still continue to point tp In
creasing Republican sentiment over
the country. The first stnto wide pri
maries ever held In Indiana showed
a remarkably strong Republican vote,
with n much smaller Democratic vote,
and that of tho Progressives ap
proaching tho vanishing point. In
Iown a municipal election nt Muscn
Una rcsultod In a Republican landslide,
nil tho Democrats In office being re
placed by Republicans. In Mnlno tlio
election In cities resulted In Republi
can victories, and tho unseating of
Democrats.
L. k N. PETITION OVERRULED.
Judgo A. M. J, Cochran in tho
United States District Court at Frank
fort, overruled tho petition of tho I
& N. for a modification of his opinion
in the 1013 franclilso tax case, rcqulr
lng the rond to pay on an assessment
of $23,000,000. Ha also required the
road to pay on tho same nmount for
1915 beforo n temporary restraining
order Is Issued. Tho road had paid on
$16,000,000 already.
J. O. U. A. Jf. MEETIXfl.
Regular weekly meeting of Lime
stono ohaptcr No. 256 J. O. U. A. M,
tonight at 7:30 o'clock. All members
are requested to bo present
WALTER RUDY, Councilor.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GoodKhear
AKRON.OHI0
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED ACAINST
Rlm-Cuti by the No-Rlm-Cut feature.
Blowout. by tho On-Air" cure.
Looo Tread. hy many rubber rlveti.
Initcuritr by 126 braided piano wires.
Puncture) and Skidding by tha double
thlclc All-Weather tread.
SIMPLE, YET ARTISTIC
arches can bo had to rcplaco the
conventional doors for a surprisingly
small sum hero. Or if you prefer
something more elaborato you can find
It among our mlllwork specialties in
variety enough to suit any tasto and
at prices which make even tho most
ornnto quite Inexpensive.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone nnd Second Streets,
Phono 510.
A. A. McLnuglilln. L. II. Hehnn
Plowing Time
I Will Be Here, Just As Soon As
s the Sun Shines Hot
g so, be ready, Farmers, to take advantage
of the first pretty days. We are ready
for you, with a splendid line of Plows, both
Oliver and Syerause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Just phone us
your wants.
If you ueed a good Rake, Hoe, Mat
tock, Ax, Fork, or, in fact, any tool needed
I on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you ever saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MV"
CLAM CHOWDER
FiHun Haddock, BUOers, Herrte, Codfish, 8hr!p, Lobster, Crb,
,hk Flakes, T FJifc, t XMkmL Antlwrtaei la Oil, Curalr, Ojitcw,
, Lt4ttu SeMeiwbk rlffM hh m4 Ue M. gel wi jour or4r.
. .
U. S. WILL NOT
ABANDON SEARCH
Report Tlint ('nrrnnin Hns Villa .Nur
rounded Will .Vot Interfere Willi
Tnltcd States Army Plnnx.
Washington, March 16. While
thcro wcro Indications In olllclnl dis
patches from Moxlco ycstortlny thnt
tho Cnrrnnza govornniont was making
a supremo effort to enpturo Villa and
his bandits with Its own forces, there
was no sign that Ocncral Funston'a
ordors to proceed on tho samo mis
sion had been modified In any wny,
Word that American troops had cross
ed tho border was still lacking.
Congress took nctivo notlco ot the
situation yesterday for the first time.
Tho Houbo passed n Joint resolution
into In the day authorizing tho re
cruiting of tho mobile rogulnr army to
full strength. This means the addi
tion of approximately 20,000 lighting
men to tho Infantry, cavnlry and field
artillery. The Senato Is expected to
concur today and tho ncccssnry orders
will bo Issued Immediately to fill up
regiments on border duty.
Tho step was suggested by the nrmy
general staff. It Is urgently desired
not because- of the weakening of the
border force by the expedition, but
over since tho patrol of tho border be
gan the nrmy has been greatly handi
capped by tho skeleton organization of
regiments, companies, troops and bat
teries. Tho forco nround Vera Cruz
had similar difficulties, sonio of tho
companies being less thnn forty men
strong.
Secretary Baker conferred yester
day with Senator Chambcrlnln and
Representative Hay, chairmen of the
Congressional military committees,
and later Hcprcsentntivo liny returned
to tho War Department accompanied
by Representative ICnhn, ranking Re
publican member of tho IIouso com
mittee. Tho resolution was Intro
duced Immediately by Representative
Hay upon his return to the capltol.
Its consideration was expedited by
unanimous consent nnd Its passage
followed with only Representative
London, Socialist, voting against It.
Steps wero taken to make It cer
tain that distorted versions of the
American purpose In Bending armed
forces across tho border were not giv
en wide circulation In Mexico. Ily
cable, telegraph, radio and mall full
etatemcnts of nil that has trans
pired since tho raid upon Columbus
and ot tho attitude of the United
States government In Its reciprocal
agreement went forward to consuls
and state department agcuts through
out tho southern republic. The Inten
tion is to keep these officials fully In
formed In order that they may cor
rect Immediately and authoritatively
nny misstatements or misapprehension
in their districts. Also, they will be
ablo to advlso Americans with a fulr
knowledge of the situation.
In effect tho United States has es
tnbllshcd a publicity bureau In Mexico
to mako clear its peaceful purposes
toward every resllent of Mexico with
the exception of Villa and tlio bandits
who raided Columbus.
STATE NATIONAL BANK
Reaches tho Million-Dollar Murk In
Its Statement Splendid
Showing.
IHIATII (IF MR, PAT FOX'.
Mr. Pat Fox, aged 71, died Tues
day afternoon nt .1 e'elook nt his home
on Rrldge street, nftor an Illness of
only n few days. He had for a number
of yenrs bcon n traveling representa
tive of tho Poyntx llros., wholesale
liquor dealers, and was woll known
over thin section.
Mr. Fox wns born In County Mnyo,
Ireland, In 1812, nnd at the early age
ot 6 years ho onmn to this country
and settled In Maysvlllo, whore ho hnd
1 1 veil nit his Ufa
j Ho Is survived by n brother, Mr.'
Thomas Kox of Rrooksvlllo, a niece.
Miss Agnes Fox, with whom he made1
his home, nnd scvoral distant rela
tives In Fleming county.
Ho wns n llfo long monlbor of St.
Patrick's Catholic church and a mom
bcr of tho Holy Name Society.
Funeral will bo from St. Patrick's
Catholic church at !i o'clock Friday
morning. Interment In thu Washing
ton Catholic cemetery.
MAIL ORDKItS PROMPT!,!' FIIjLEI).
For nil grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. Poyntis llros., Covington, Ky
Charles Asbury, C. I. Newman, J. M,
Finch and John Slcdd of tho county,
wcro Maysvlllo "visitors Tuesday.
ROSS NICHOLSON
Jinn From Marseille Dies Sudden!
At Ills Home In
Florida.
A REAL BALLPLAYER
Milton, Son of .Mr. nnd Mrs. Tliomns
M. Riicll, In Training Willi
Philadelphia National.
Several weeks ago Mrs, Thomas M
RiisboII and Interesting son Milton,
wont to St. Petersburg, Flu., to spend
tho balance of tho winter, nnd they
hnd hardly gotten thcro when the Phil
adelphia Natlonnl baseball club "blow
In" for their spring training.
Thoy hnd not gotten tho traveling
"kinks" out of them boforo Master Mil
ton Russell made their acquaintance
and soon had unfolded to thorn his
good points ns n playor of tho great
nntlonnl sport, nnd after they began
"working out" on tho park Innds, Milt
was thcro too; and a letter recclvod
hero stntcs that ho now looks, nets and
practices llko a regular, nnd If all
signs don't fall, he'll bo on tho pny
roll beforo ninny years of ono of the
big lenguo clubs.
Milt Is now out of the back-lot
league.
Tho meeting announced by tlio Wo
man's Club for Thursday afternoon nt
tho Rlks' Home, will be held nt the
Mission on Sutton street, ns repairs
being mado at tho Elks' Homo will
not be completed In time.
i FRESH CANNED COCONUT I
H In snnitnry cans. Tho milk, tho Juicy meat nnd tho samo ldentl-
cnl flavor used tho samo as fresh coconut. Only 10c per can.
i
.irST TAPPKU Another bnrrol of that famous Now Orleans Mo
2 hisses. 05c per gallon.
S Dinger Bras., fSd st"
HIQi
IHI
i
SMART AMI ATTRACTIVE SEW Mr. Gerald Murphy has returned
WALLPAPER IIESIONS AT HEX. I homo from a week-end visit to Ilolle
IHHCKSOVS. vue, Ky.
1 Cent Each
Mil
ST. PATRICK'S 3
POST CARDS
Sec Our Racks of Dainty, New Cards. Buy and 5
Send Now.
S M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
w "AT THE CORNER"
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper
at CRANE & SHAFER'S.
Mr. C. F. McN'amara was a business
vlEltor In Vnnccburg Tuesday.
Mr. William C. Nicholson, one of th-
Maysvlllo Water Company's engineers
Tuesday rccolved a telegram announc
ing tho sudden death of his brother,
Mr. Ross Nicholson, nt his homo In
Zolfo, Fin. I
Mr. Nicholson had been a great suf -1
forcr from nsthma, and his death was'
due to nsthma of tho heart, ho drop-
ping dead after a severe paroxysm of'
roughing.
Ho was bom In this city nnd was
60 years old. He was a eon of the
lute James Nicholson, and wns married
several years ago to a lady from Mil-,
waukee, and nftor a stay there he ro-1
moved to Florida, whoro ho became a
successful orango grower.
He Is survived by his v. ldow nnd two
brothers, William C. Nicholson, of this
city, and John Nicholson of Cripple
Creek, Col. '
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
Jhe World Js full of people Jhat Can
Paint Pictures Real Artists Jtre
few and far etweenr
There nro clothes milkers pi 1 nro hut tlio product o only a few stand out ns un
mistakably wonderful.
And if you know anything 'ihont clothes nt nil, you know that Society Brnud,
Stein-Bloeli. Ilirsh-AViekwiro, H. II. Fashion nnd Michaels, Stern & Co. Clothes arc
the n.'uiies that are looked up to.
The number of carefully drtssed people who buy here and continue to buy hero
season after season confirms thjs opinion, viz., that the clothes we are selling are
the highest possible development in worth-while tailoring nt the prices.
The newest things in Shoes and Hats.
o. Kcs oj&aiiTsra-EiR, &. oo.
Elsowhcro In this Issuo of Tho Pub
lic Ledger will bo found tho state
ment of tho Stato National Dank of
this city, on March 7, BIG.
Tho statement must bo very grati
fying to tho officials of tho bank as
well as tho citizens of this city, when
it is known we bavo a financial Insti
tution In our midst doing a million-
dollar business, and this, too, In face
of tho fact that wo have four other
banks and two trust companies, all In
good, sound and flourishing condi
tion. ,
Tho totnl resources of tho bank are
$1,000,804.70, divided partly as fol
lows: Loans and discounts, $507,-1
349.40; surplus and undivided jn oflts, '
$30,084.81; individual deposits, ?720,-
761.37: other deposits, $49,955.58, mnk-
lng total deposits $770,719.95.
This Is a showing that In hard to
beat In a small city llko Maysvlllo,
with ouly 7,500 population.
Tho olllceru aro Mr, Charles D.
Pearco, president; B. T. Kirk, vice
president, nnd II. C. Sharp, cashier.
Tho Publlo Lodger congratulates
tbeso gentlemen upon tho splendid
showing thus mado and wishes them
continued success.
Qet your boy In line for ono of the
pi lies that J. T. Knckloy & Compauy
aro offering on Post, Country Gen
tleman and Ladles" Homo Journal. A
blbyclo, kodak, fountain pon, watch
and knlfo.
Miss Nora Campbell of NIobQlusvlllo,
Is the guest of her brother. Rev. Y.
D. Ckinptall of yest Third street.
Stylish Silks at Moderate Prices
Silks aro lovelier than ever and never In greater favor with Dame Fushion. Wo aro told constantly that our stock of silks Is un
surpassed in Maysvlllo. They nro right In every sense quality, color, weave, pattern and price.
AT i' EM'S Suslno Chiffon cloth. The only cotton fabric that has gained entranco to our Silk Stock but Its dellcato weave almost
nr. transparent as chiffon, its lovely colors and Its lustrous silk finish make it such close kin to silk wo are displaying It during this salo.
AT 0 I'UXTS Foulard in tan and white. Messallno In flesh, sand, gray.
AT ."0 ni.M'S Striped, figured and brocaded silks, pongees, whlto tub silks. Challles In lovely shades nnd patterns havo also bceu
Included with silks ot this price.
AT 75 CUNTS White tub silks, pongees, figured silks In broad variety, mcssnllne.
AT Taffeta, messallnc, cashmlro charmeuse, rajah, striped shirtings, pongee, white Jap tub silk, whito nnd flesh Italian
tub silk.
Other silks in great variety In blnck and colors, up to $2.25 yard
Children's Tub Frocks
Sizes 2 to G years. Perhaps tho most notablo feature Is the diversity of styles. While you aro charmed with tho daintiness ot one
llttlo dress that has Just n hint of a skirt, so long-walstcd is it, thcro beside It you sco another just tho opposlto and just ns charming
nn Umpire style. Gingham and Percales, 50c, 75c, $1.00.
They Speak For Themselves
What Is tho uso of a lot ot words on paper when tho briefest glance at our stock of suits will Instantly couvlnco you It is unrivalled In
Maysvlllo for size and style. All prices from $15 to $35.
i .- e s
Our prlco this week for buttorfat,
3G cents, Maysvlllc.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Mrs. P. J. McDonald of Bridge street,
has as her guest her sister, Miss Eva
Fleming ot niauchester, O.
Our now Spring wallpapers aro
ready for your Inspection. Come In.
CRANE & SHAFER.
Mr. and MrB. J, Foster Barbour leave
today for Clifton Springs, N. V., for n
few weeks' stay,
ifwrv Day Brinas in new Goods
"Dolores Linen" writing paper, initialed and bordered, in the newest shades, 24 sheets, 24 envelopes,
2 and only 25c.
"Kitty Bess" Silk Hose, the best $1 silk hose in America. When our present stock is exhausted the
price will be higher.
You will admire the new Spring Suits and Coats. $12.95 to $35.
f A pair of grey high boots at $7 to tickle the feet.
g Lovely hats from New York's greatest makers, selected by one of New York's most charming women,
& who has been considered a fashionable society leader.
f Do your own dress making. Buy one of the new "Acme" Adjustable Dress Forms$5.95, $6.95,
$12.95.
j'
r
1
13
