THE BRECKENR1DGE NEWS.
ALL .THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT.
VOL. XL CLOVERRORT, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1916. 8 Pages No. 37
L H. & St. L. Railroad Shops Devoured
by Flames Early Yesterday Morning!
Fire Breaks Out About 1 O'clock a. m., And by
Three O'clock all of the Buildings Except
Car Repair Shop Were in Ruins.
6 ENGINES, PARLOR CAR, 5 COACHES BURNED
Onco again has Cloverport been visited by a disastrous tiro in
the month of March. Eurly Tuesday morning the citizens of the
town were awakened by the fire alarms, and it only took a few min
utes to discover that it was the L., H. & St. L. R'y. shops on fire.
The (ire had been burning but a short time when the lighting plant
cables were reached and the entire town was left in darkness except
the flare from the doomed buildings. By the time the people arrived
there the fire had gained such headway that very little could be dono
toward saving anything.
The majority of the buildings wore frame and covered several
acres of ground. The paint shop, machine shop, round house, office
building and wood shop were totally destroyed with their contents.
The telegraph office and car shops were saved.
The furniture und fixtures, books and records from Master Me
chanic Ferry's office, and most all the tools belonging to the men
were saved.
Six engines, numbers 5, 6, 12, 24, 27, and number 17 which was
undergoing repairs in the round house were burned; also live coaches,
a parlor car and the pile driver and several box cars were destroyed.
The tire started in the round house, and the flame i had gained a
good beadwaj' when discovered. On account of the water tank being
in the midst of the flames there was no chance of saving the buildings.
Six years ago this month the round house burned and was Inter
rebuilt. Fifteen years ago on the night of the 12th and 13th Clover-
port was almost destroyed by fire.
The only shops of the L., II. & St. L. lt'y. are located here and
employ about 250 or 300 men.
The loss is estimated at from $125,000 to $150,000, fully covered
by insurance.
Mr. Hudson, Mr. Lamkin, Attorney J. S. Skillman and a ropre
sontative of an insurance company, came down Tuesday morning to
iuspece the ruins.
M. Hudson said ho had made no plans for tho future, only that
he had secured engines to tako care of tho road's business until shops
could be built.
A force of shop men have been ordered to Louisville and to
Howell to look uftor the rolling stock.
Hardinsburg Irvington
Pharmacy Pharmacy
THE DRUG STORES THAT SAVE YOU MONEY
We carry a complete line of
Poultry and Veterinary
Remedies
Poultry and Stock Powder
Kress Dip, Lice Powder, Veteri
nary Paracamph, Lex's
Caustic Balsam
Paints, Oils and Varnishes
Get our prices on Paints be
fore painting this Spring
Agents Peaslee-Gaulbert Co's.
Paints Exclusively.
Brushes All kinds
LEX'S COLD TABLETS WILL CURE THAT COLD IN ONE NIGHT.
Kodaks!
Kodaks!
Your boys and girls will enjoy tho oveningH after school
much better with a kodak. So simple any child cau work them
so efficient it will make pictures you will prize. Como in and
let us show you. Brownies from $1 up. Films Developed
Free.
Agents Eastman Kodak Co.
Send us Your Mail Orders
CERTIFICATE OF AUDIT.
Hardinsbunr, Ky., March 8, 1916. (Special.) This is to
certify that I have examined tho books and accounts of The
Bank of Hardinsburg & Trust Co., as of February 19, 1916.
Tho cash on hand was verified by actual count, und ac
counts with other banks by correspondence. The loans were
inspected by tho Board of Directors, acting in conjunction with
tho auditor, and found to bo regular and in good condition.
The stocks and bonds owned by the bank were examined, and
the valuation at which they are carried on tho books is very
conservative. The securities held in trust, as called for by the
books, were found to bo on hand. The banking liouso and lot
havo been charged agninst profits and are not carried as an as
set. A careful audit was made of tho certificates of deposit
and cashier's checks without developing any discrepancies. The
Bank has a surplus equal to seventy per cent of its capital
stock, and the general conditions of the institution appears to
be excellent. JOHN FORD MORRIS,
Public Accountant and Auditor.
State of Kentucky, )
County of Jefferson. J '
Personally appeared before me on this day, in said county
and State, John Ford Morris who subscribed to the foregoing
statement and made oath bofoie me that said statement is true.
Witness my hand this 8th day of March, 1916.
M. L. HEITZ,
Notary Public, Jefferson County.
(Seal) Commission expires January 28, 1918.
BIG MINSTREL
To Be Given at the Opera House
Thursday Evening, Nine Black
Faced Comedians Take Part.
A pleasing program will be given at
the Opera House Thursday, Murch 16,
when home talent artists will give u
minstrel under the auspices of Brecken
ridge Lodge, No. 61, Knights of Pyth
ias, of Cloverport.
The program will be about two hours
long. A compauy of nine black. face
comedians in end men jokes and UD-to-
date songs will surely please the aud
ience. The "Crest" overture by the
entire company will be one nf the
special features of the evening.
Those taklog part in the entertain
ment are: Wilbur Chapin, Addis Kra
mer, Bruce Bennett, Kmraett Edmond-
son, Mike Tucker, Horace Tucker,
Henry Yeager, Chas. Hall, Milton
Squires, Eldred Uabbage anil W. A.
Roff. Miss Anna Udmondson will act
as accompanist.
WELL KNOWN WOMAN
Dies at Her Home in Hardins
burg Tuesday Husband and
Three Children Survive Her.
Delivered Address
On Woman's Rights.
A large crowd was in attendance at
the school b llding Thursday evenltig
to hear the splendid uddress given by
MUs Walker, of Pennsylvania. Her
subject was "Woman's Hlghts," and in
connection with this, she also spoke on
"Child Labor." The different organi
zations of the city had Miss Walker to
come here uud deliver this address.
which was very much enjoyed by all.
Pressing Shop Changes Hands.
The Cloverport pressing shop changed
hands last week, Owen Berry selling
out the business to Raphael Lewis, who
is now in charge. Mr. Lewis will leave
nothing undone to give his patrons the
best work be cau afford.
Hardinsburg, March lit. (Special.)
Hauliusburg has lost another excelleut
and fait, ful character, Mrs. John I
Haswell, Sr., alter being an invalid for
some time, departed this life this morn
ing at 6:25 o'clock.
Mrs. Haswell was the daughter of
Elijah uud Bettie Eskridge, aud a
granddaughter of "Father Taylor'' the
pioneer minister. She, with her dearest
friend, Mrs Hannah Hays, and Mr.
Haswell, united with the M. E. church
on the same day ixty-four years ago
under the preaching of Rev. Downard.
For over sixty years Mrs. Haswell and
Mrs. Hayes have written to each other
every week. A card came from Mrs.
Haves last Saturday. Her death came
on the anniversary of her sister, Mrs.
Gross Williams death.
On the eighteenth of January she cel
ebrated her eightirth birthday, and the
day following was her wedding anni
versary, she having been married to
Mr. John I. H tsvvelL, Sr., iifty eight
yearu.
Mrs. Haswell was the mother of six
children, three of whom are living:
Messrs C. E and W. G. Haswell who
live here, ami Frank Haswell, of Kansas
City, Mo,, who could not come oti ae
count .of his wife's llluess She leaves
a devoted husbaud, three children,
twelve grandchildren, two brother.
Messrs. Roscoe Eskridge, who resides
here, and Melville Eskridge, of Owens
boro, a half sister, Mrs. A. M. Weath-
erford, of Sunny Dale.
The funeral services were conducted
Tuesday afternoon by her pastor, Rev.
S. K. Hunt, after which her remains
were laid to rest In the old cemetery to
await the summons, "Well done thou
good and faithful servant."
One of ber grandsons, la writing to
There is a Real Difference
Cream of tartar, derived from grapes,
is used in Royal Baking Powder because
it is the best and most healthful ingredient
known for the purpose.
Phosphate and alum, which are de
rived from mineral sources, are used in
some baking powders, instead of cream of
tartar, because they are cheaper.
If you have been induced to use baking
powders made from alum or phosphate,
use Royal Baking Powder instead. You
will be pleased with the results and the
difference in the quality of the food.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
New York
MR. GEORGE E. BESS,
Late of the Southern National Bank, of Louisville, Ky., and
Other Large Institutions, is Now in the Service of The
Bank of Hardinsburg & Trust Company in Connection
With the Trust Department of That Institution.
.
Hardinsburg, Ky., March 15, HUG. (Special. ) On
March 13, Mr. George E Bess, of Louisville, Kentucky, was
added to the force of Tho Hunk of Hardinsburg & Trust Com
pany, and is heud of tho Trust Department, subject to the su
pervision of the President und Cashier.
Tho growth of the Bank and Trust Company, which is and
has been steady and continuous, has caused it to reach such
proportions that it is now impracticable for Mr. Compton, its
efficient Cashier, to give to each department tho requisite per
sonal attention; hence, tho addition of Mr. Bess as the head of
tho Trust Department.
This department has charge and control of estates confided
to it as guardian for infants, committee for insane persons, ad
ministrator and executor of decedents' estates, trustee, receiver
and assignee of estates, and is now of such magnitude as to re
quire the constant attention of a person skilled and thoroughly
experienced in such mutters. After much investigation the
Trust Company officials determined upon Mr. Bes as tho
proper pnrson, und linally niudo tho position sufficiently at
tractive to him to induce him to accept it.
The Institution's many patrons aro entitled to an intro
duction to Mr. Boss. Tho following should suffice:
For four years employed by tho Mt. Olivet Deposit Bunk,
Mt. Olivet, Ky.; for three years for Western & Southern Life
Insurance Company; for seven years book keeper and transit
clerk with tho Merchants' National Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio;
for six years Manager of Transit Department of Third National
and Sout' orn Xutional Bank, Louisville, Ky.
Mr. Bess' efficiency and integrity tiro attested by tho 20
years continuous service above enumerated, aud somo of tho
institutions mentioned are among tho oldest und largest in
Kentucky.
Tho policies of Tho Bank of Hardinsburg & Trust Com
pany aro progro-isivo in every particular. It spares no expense
in procuring tho best sorvico obtainable for its patrons, which
means not only protection to them, but tho steady, continuous
growth of it in its Banking und Trust Departments, reflects
tho deserved confidence of tho people in its miinagoment.
his mother said: "Her little world is
holler and better because she lived, the
bo ly changed but her life going "f,
her songs and prayers have gone Into
eternity and will live .for ever.
"Weep not husband, children and
brothers,
For she has left this woildfor the other,
Where she can worship God face to
face,
She suffered, now joy takes its place."
Dr. J. T. Owen Critically III
Dr. J. T. Owen is very 111 at his home
In the East End. Mrs. Matthews, of
Philadelphia, and Mr. Jesse Owen, of
Oklahoma City, were called home to be
with their father. Dr. Owen has many
friends who hope he will have a speedy
recovery.
Cloverport Boy Wins
Distinguished Honors.
Deputy Governor Lieutenant William
H. White, of Heeleeau. Philippine Is
lands, has been given honorable men
tion by the Provincial Governor for es
tablishing friendly relations with Datu
Lcembong in the Lake Sebu region.
William . White Is a son of Mrs. Jas.
T. Skillman, a brother of Frank B.
White, of Cloverport, aud a grandson
of Mrs. Virgil Hardin, of Holt; and Dr.
W. B. White, of Loxington. His many
friends in Kentucky rejoice with his
family In this expression of high appre
ciation coaiug through this source.
4
