U.S.TROOPS NOW IN MEXICO
REMARKABLE PICTURE SHOWING EXACT SCENE OF MEXICAN BANDIT VILLA'S ATTACK, SKIRMISH AND FLIGHT
This remarkable photograph shows the exact scene of the Villa bandit attack. Here is seen the camp of the 13th regiment of U. S. troopers, just outside the village of Columbus, N. M , which is also pictured. The bandits, crossing the
border in the night, fired buildings in Columbus, shot American citizens as they fled from their burning homes, and stole cavalry horses before the troopers, who were bleeping, were aroused. In a pitched battle that followed troopers and
bandits were kilted and the bandits fled across the border wi th the troopers in hot pursuit.
Should Uncle Sam
TakeOverMexico?
Naf#: Th# fallowing arlt«-t«> ..a ih# Hrilraii .ltit.ft«.n with nl
kMI «hlrh •• ««I. from lh« |»a of K«h»n I l'ala> int.
»• abasia "*«»•* r»alh« title »nl> which » . M .«..!», ho Ja.t
la|H Maa.t r»t« ll a trlfrwi aad hrtM.trcd alllar la Ih» vrl|i|N
»»»aatialUa (tMiMi • Masaalnx rrparla thai hi. ilall> aadlrara I. l.mw
I TM« larladn lb» rlrraUlloa .. f Tk» twill* «•> la ahkrh mu> at
W «rt»a>«a appear. meal at Ihrm M uadar bla M(Ulw>
TJESOLUTION'S like the one Senator Fall introduced in
Washington the other clay appear to he rather hysterial,
but it seems almost impossible for any one to consider Me\
ican matters without indulg
ing in hysteric* in some de-
K rfC
it it Mexico.
When Mexicans are not in .1
state of anarchy and war. they
are in a state of slavery.
In war. the common people
"• of Mexico are robbed and
slaughtered by a Villa, a Za
pata or any other scoundrel who can control a band of cut
throats.
In peace, they are robbed, oppressed and often executed
without reason by the families of a Diaz, a Huerta, or a
Terrazas.
They are without hope of self-government, and incapable
of it, even were they permitted to try it.
Financially, the Mexican* arc a nation of bankrupt",
defaulter* and paupers, under the thumb of Wall st.
Eugenically, they are largely a nation of mongrels, with
ancestral references of the very worst. Mexico is a dying
nation IT IS THE STRONGEST CANDIDATE ON
EARTH FOR A PLACE ON THE LIST OF WHITE
MEN'S BURDENS.
R .F-. PA.INCr
If the present inva«ion of Mexico finally results in an
nexation of Mexico to the United State*, it will be a perfect
godsend to the people of Mexico.
" "Native pride" (Mex.j is the great obstacle to thi«, it
is said.
It is the sentiment upon which the actual rulers and
looters of Mexico rely to enable them to hold on to what
they've pot and to get more, but it i* highly probable that
the common people of Mexico will enthusiastically turn out
and fight and die for a government, de facto, constitutional,
hereditary or whatnot, under which they are hopeless, poor
and miserable.
However, "native pride" often goeth before a fall.
Note the recent case of the Philippines. We purchased
those Filipinos, body, soul and breeches, and didn't hesitate
to lick such notions as "native pride" and self-government
out of them, because, being dead ones, nationally, like the
Mexicans, they were properly the white man's burden.
HOUSEWIVES, SAVE 20 CENTS ON THE DOLLAR-GEO. W. PERKINS, FINANCIER, TELLS HOW YOU CAN DO IT
GEORGE jr. PERKINS, who made millions by helping to
build up the great United States steel trust, recently threw
over most of his business rares for a period to tar Lie the problem of
reducing the constantly mounting high-cost-of-living in New \ ork.
That Perkins REALLY SUCCEEDED is evidenced by the fact
that one of the heads of the United States department of agricul
ture said his work is E/1R /l!\D /1 If ////'- lil'.Sl ever done
in this line! TWENTY CENTS ON THE DOLLAR is what
Perkins says YOU can save if you will follow his findings.
NEW YORK, March 15. With the re
turn to Amcrica of a wonderful prosperity
is coming a proportionate
increase in the cott of liv
'"K-
For the great war which
has brought U?- such material
bounty, is also to he the
means of relieving us of a
great deal since the extra
costs of woolens, dye«, fab
rics, hardware and fertiliz
ers is driving prices of
clothes and food straight tip.
And the start of the in-
G W Perkins
dine is all that is yet visible, economists
say.
"It is time now, if ever there was a time,
to put the kitchen on a business basis, 1
BY. R. F. PAINE
We will invade Mexico hut
we don't want to acquire any
thing. roars Fall.
And, in the next hreath. he
cal!* !*t ? <T><U) volunteers r
hacking for the regular army
To put me in the fashior
will the editor of The St;
kindly permit me to throw
particular fit "f my owr
(We will.—Kditor.)
If there ever were a hurdei
that the white man wn justi
fied in himseif.
The Seattle Star
VOLUME 18
TROOPS FACE
TERRIBLE PERIL
John Reed Tell» Something
of Warfare in
Mexico
WONDERFUL FIGHTERS
NEW YORK. March IS—What
will th«» Amrrl'-nn aoldlfra h« up
for a jMf ll'
MmIM.
H*r« I* what h» h»« to **T
•bout our da»h acroaa thr border
"W# American# ar« Inr-llnod I"
conald»r fr»j»»T«' a* tr»-»ch#rou« ;
reward*. tn that w« mak» a mt» j
take.
' Tt)» Mf*!ean* tiara a *ort of
rouran" that Anglo-Hajon* do not
know —a Ijitln rourait" that l*»d*
th*m to throw th»ma«>l*e« In th»>
far* of forlorn hop**. fled hy :
iom> Mithualiain or l«"l by »om*
popular from thi»lr mldat (
whirr many an American or Ktiro
p«in «oldlrr would not ha*w tht,
rMkloaiMM to go.
John Rftd
"I have aaen barefooted
paona walk up the etreet to the
wall of a corral eurmounted by
flva machine gune pumping
forth a eteady atream of bul
lata, and thoee paona wara un.
armed eacept for atlcka of dy
namlta Mwed up In cowawlna.
which they thraw by hand
ovar tha corral wall.
"Four ttmee thay did thla un
til thay had auccaadad In blow
ing the defend«ra to piacaa.
I have '*een Mexican flirhtera
riimli "p the «teep tM> of * flinty
hi!! over 200 fret hlirh In the far*
of artillery an'l machine (tuna en
trenched on the top
"Olio after tha other »#>ven at
tarnlnx partlea almoat accompllah
(>d the ascent, hut. the appalling
fart that eac'i tlrn* only a tanth
retnr:#<l did not de'er the nthem
from making other attempts to ef
feet tha capture of the Impregnable
[KM It lon.
' Tor un fighting In Mexico la
largely a (jiieatlon of oppoalng
K'lerllla fighters. Ineffective In the
field, hut extremely annoying to
an army.
"It la to be no Joke, thla raid
Into Mexico. It mean* the hardest
jmsslhle kind of warfare' *
says Cleorgc VV. Perkins, organizer of the
steel trust and leading progressive
Perkins, as head of Mayor Mitchel's
food committee, has recently won laurels
for the way he has attacked the high cost
of-living problem and reduced it to formulas
whereby, he -ays, housewives can save
20 cents on every dollar.
"The economics of food both as to buy
ing and cooking are less developed than
any other single group of economics about
which our daily lives revolve," say* Per
kins.
"Therefore it rectus obvious that by put
ting these on a scientific ba*is, we can at
once effect the greatest single saving of
which we as a people are capable.
"Iti tackling this subject, we decided to
leave nothing to chance, so we worked out
l THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWj I
*lagaln<t In right
!nK Villa and hi*
hanl» of inert lln
flahtera?
No man la »<>
qualified to a»t It
forth ao accurate
I If and vividly an
i John lUrd, the
I famoua *ar cor ,
Irrapondcnt *h •>
accompanied VII
*la and hl» »rm> '
SEATTLE, WASH., WEDNESDAY, MARCH IS, \9\o. ONE CENT nrSS„\\ A £ 9 S"*
SENATE ADOPTS
BIG ARMY BILL
U. S. Regular* Now to Be
Immediately Increased to
100.000.
PASSES UNANIMOUSLY
PREPAREDNESS NOTE
Vl.ki
Eight thouaand Amtfl.
cana. «*om It haa taken
flva day* to concantrat# on
tha Mtalcan bordar, could
hold about a mlla and a
half of tranchaa in Europ*
for on# battl*.
If thay bora tha brunt of
any hird fighting, about
on# fifth would ba killed,
wounded and caoturcd If
thara wai any dalay In re-
Inforclng them, thara would
ba nothing loft but haaty
defeat and poaaibl* aater
mlnatlon of tha remainder.
WASHINGTON. March 1S —
The Hay-Chamberlain retolu
tlon. Increaalng th« alia of the
regular army to Ita full etcength
of 100.000 man waa adopted to
day by tha aanata
Tha mtaaura, aeked for by tha
war department, waa paeaed
by the houte late yeaterday.
Iloke Smith *»• the only *enator
to op|w>tw the reaoliitlon during the
debate.
He proposed an amendment mak-
In* tha enllatment term two Team,
Inatead of the u*ual four
lie aald ha waa agalnat lon* en-
Itatmenta. and that. In the pre*ent
caae. he felt aure recruit* could be
more easily obtained If tho term
were »hortened.
The aenate enjoyed unlimited de
hate of the meaaure. until Senator
Oalllrijrer called for a vote Then
It wn* paa*ed unanimously.
Senator Sherman Introduced n
resolution *u**e*tlnK the American
force* he withdrawn from the Phil
ippine*. lie Mid;
"Twedv* thomutnd regular* could
he *ent to Mexico. They would he
Ideal aoldler* In that tropical cli
mate Furthermore. they have been
well trained In guerilla warfare "
MORMONS ARE SAFE
KI. PASO. March IR—The Amer
ican Mormona reported menaced
hy Pranclacd Villa hare arrived
aafely at <'**n* (Jrande*. ft|*hop
Hur*t of the Mormon church an
nounced today. He heard from
them thl* morning They reported
Villa wa* "hoverlnn In the vi
cinity."
Mre. Selma Kihlgren Testing the PerMne Recipes In Her Tiny Kitchen
on the Eaet Side of New York
GEN. FUNSTON ADMITS
INVASION HAS BEGUN
SAN ANTONIO, March 15.—Maj. Gen. Fred Funs ton admitted this afternoon that Col. Dodd's cavalry
command had probably crossed the border into Mexico. The United Preas asked him to confirm reports of
cavalry fighting on the Mexican side. Funston replied : "Dodd has probably crossed, but he's out of communis
cation with concentration point* at the place of crowing, which was about 90 miles from Columbus, in a
straight line from the town."
Funston also said: "The report that our cavalry has been in an engagement is interesting, and may be
true. Frankly, I am out of touch with Col. Dodd's column. He will get into wireless communication with
Gen. Pershing before evening. I expect, and then I'U hear details. Report* oi fighting so soon after cross
ing were unexpected. It is possible that word of operations along the bower may have seeped back thru the
telegraph operators not under censorship before it reached me. Only Columbus itself is under censorship."
DEMING, N. M., March 15 (By telephone to EI Paso).—American troops have not yet crossed the
border into Mexico, according to automobilist* arriving from Columbus at noon today. Camp had been
broken, however, and the expedition was ready, when they left the town, to move at a minute's notice. The
Carranza garrison at Paloma, earlier reported evacuated by the Carranzista authorities, revolted and declared
for Villa, according to new unconfirmed reports. The story was that the mutinous troops had started toward
La Ascenscion to join the bandit.
IRONCLAD CENSORSHIP CLAPPED UPON BORDER
EL PASO, March 15.— Military censorship has been
thrown so closely a round Columbus and the border country
today that it is impossible to ascertain troop movements, altho
many helieve the expedition has started.
Control of the telegraph and telephone has been taken
over by a squad of soldiers, acting under orders from Brig.
(icn. Pershing. A long distance telephone call to Columbus
today brought a reply from "Central" that she was under
military censorship as well as everybody else there
A censored Columbus dispatch front a United Press cor
respondent told of preparations to establish a base of opera
tions for the pursuit. Railroad switches and bridges are
being built'by army engineers
Troop movements were not mentioned
The censor permitted mention, however, of the arrival
of the aero squadron from San Antonio with its consort of
motor lorries.
The United Press correspondent's message was timed
0 30 a. m. today, but it docs not necessarily contradict rumors
of a start having been made because newspapermen were not
expected to be permitted to enter Mexico with the vanguard.
BY H. D. JACOBS
the problems of distributing our informa
tion before we wasted time looking for
knowledge that we might be able to dis
seminate.
"There are 5,000,000 people in New
York. Of these 1,000,000 are school chil
dren.
"Therefore we decided that if we could
put our information in the hands of every
school child in New York, it would reach
practically every family in New York The
board of education agreed to such a scheme
and the problem of distributing our propa
ganda was solved with no cost.
"Of each circular, we printed 800,000
copies. These were sent to each school,
where they were distributed to the pupils.
Then the teacher asked them to take the
circular home."
The circular bore this caption:
"MAKE A DOLLAR EARN 20
CENTS FOR YOU!"
The subject of Circular Number One
was "How to Buy."
In this and the other nine circulars all
the experience that has come to Perkins
in a famously successful business career is
crystallized and made clear for housewives.
"I worked harder on those in making
them applicable to daily, human needs—
than ever I worked on an efficiency sheet
for the U. S. Steel Corporation!" laughed
TAJ^T
l/EDITION J.
Officers at Ft. Bliss refuse to discuss rumors that the
border had already been crossed.
Unconfirmed rumors insist that anti-American feeling
among the common Carranza soldiers is growing.
Juarez is excited over a shooting today which Carranza
officials attributed to drunken men. At no time did the :x
--citement become very great. Another view of the affair was
that a few soldiers cried out "Vive la Villa." whereupon
loyalists fired on them and silenced their shouts. No casual
ties were reported.
l.ieut. Schallenberger, military censor, visited El Pa-o
telegraph offices, causing i report that the strict censor
ship in effect at Columbus would be extended to this city.
Brig. C.en. John J. Pershing's orders were for him to cross
the border when ready.
Gen. Perching is keeping in wireless touch with Maj. Gen.
Funston. It is expected the advance guards will dash upon
Guzman, a small Mexican town, and establish their first ba»e
of operations there.
Latest reports concerning the whereabouts of Villa said
he was in Galena district. Gen. Gutierrez, Carranza army
leader, is due to leave Juarez for Chihuahua at once to lead
Perkins.
"In it are 'big business* principles brought
down and trapped for the kitchen."
In addition to these circulars Chairman
Perkins and his committee have printed a
series of supplemental booklets on the
economic preparation of left-overs, meat
substitutes. fish and vegetables. Each of
them contains hundreds of tested recipes.
"And these recipes are tested!" said
Perkins. "They are tested by an average
housewife who has to support her family
on an average salary.
"Kvery recipe printed in our book was
tried out by Mrs. Seltna Kihlgren, who has
a little home down on the East Side and
whose husband gets $12 a week. Any
recipe that she found to be impractical
was tossed at once into the discard.
"\Yc decided that if we were really going
to help reduce the high-cost-of living, we
could make no better start than by having
workable recipes."
Tomorrow the first of the ar
ticles by George U . Perkins,
telling housewives how to buy
their food and save 20 cents on
every dollar, will be printed in
The Star.
(Continued on page 5)
