VOLUME XXXVII.
CODNCIL PURCHASES
OILING APPARATUS
EXPERIMENTS WILL BE MADE
ON SHORT SECTIONS OF CITY
STREETS.
ALSO LETS CONTRACT FOR EREC-
TION OF NEW CEMETERY
BUILDING.
With the purchase of apparatus used
in oiling the streets and 20,000 gallons
of the neccessary fluid, the city council
at its meeting last Tuesday evening be
gan the movement to bring New Ulm
into the class of modern cities. The
contract for the oil distributor was let
to the Studebaker corporation for $517,
this being the lowest of the three bids
received. The contract for furnishing
20,000 gallons of oil went to the Stan
dard Oil Company, whose bid of 5.36
cents per gallon was the lowest. Ac
cording to present plans"of the members
of the council short sections of streets
will be oiled at a time in order to de
termine the proper amount of oil for the
soil in this locality. Experts in other
cities have been unable to give advice
in this matter because of the difference
in the soil.
Bids were also received by the council
for the erection of a building at the city
cemetery, plans for which had been ac
cepted by the council some time ago.
John G. Gronau was the successful bid
der at $2,608. While the original plans
were to use brick of an outside concern,
it was decided to patronize home industry
when Mr. Aufderheide presented a, sample
for the inspection of the council. The
brick has the appearance of granite and
it is believed will give the building a
handsome appearance.
John L. Hoffmann in a letter to the
council lays claim to $250 as damages
for injuries said to have been sustained
in a fall on the icy sidewalk in front of
the Woratschke building on the corner
of First North and Broadway. The
matter was referred to the city attorney
and the street committee.
The firm of Mitchell, Peat & Co. of
Minneapolis was s.iven contract to
audit the books of the city, beginning
April 5. This firm is to furnish one ex
pert accountant at a salary of $15 a day
and if necessary an assistant at $10 per
i^y-
Three building permits were granted
by the council, one to Dr. Weiser for
the erection of the new bnck block on the
corner of Second North and Minnesota
streets, another to Jos. Fesenmeier for
a new garage to be erected on the prop
erty immediately north of the post
office on Broadway, and one to Chas.
Brust, Sr,. for remodeling his residence
on the corner of Center and Broadway.
Permission was also granted Dr. Weiser
for the removal of the present building
on Second North street to the rear of the
lot. The building is to be given a new
front, brick veneered and otherwise im
proved in appearance.
Final payment for the pump installed
by J. G. Robertson of St. Paul at the
well on Center street hill was ordered,
the council allowing the contractor
$1,000 as final settlement.
Hippert & Werner were allowed $50.
which sum had been retained from the
contract price of constructing storm
sewers.
EXPERT WILL LECTURE ON COM
MERCIAL CREDITS.
O. R. Parker, manager of the Credit
Rating Association of Minneapolis, will
speak at the Commercial Club rooms
next Friday evening on the subject of
"Commercial Credits" which matter
has engaged the business men of the city
for some time. The lecture will not be
confined to members of the Commercial
Chub and every business man is being
urged to make it a point to be there.
The matter of extending credit to the
trade is a custom in New Ulm dating
back to the opening of the first store in
the city. Even people who are perfectly
able to pay spot cash are lh File habit of
having purchases charged and keeping
an open account at the various stores.
While it may be an impossibility to do
business without extending a certain
amount of credit, it is believed that the
habit can be curbed to a great extent.
Mr. Parker was engaged by the Com
mercial Club to explain to the business
men the system now in use in the larger
cities. He will be prepared to *ay be
fore the meeting a full set of blanks now
in use by the Minneapolis association
Two children of the Henry Konako
witz family were taken down with typhoid
fever Tuesday.
ROUNDS OUT 75 YEARS OF AC
TIVE LIFE
Captain Frank Burg reached the
seventy-fifth milestone of life last Friday
and enjoyed the congratulations of his
many friends at Turner Hall where he
had attended the Bunge lecture. Cap
tain Burg is one of the prominent figures
of New Ulm. He came to the city about
c&$
tM^'-H
~i I
'C
HUB^L.S
P^B:-x-
su''m
W
llr3^l
N
NfflSB
ill
^pv*^*l|l
CAPT. FRANK BURG
45 years ago and in his younger days took
an active part in athletic work at Turner
Hall. As a maunfacturer of cigars he
gained a state-wide reputation and the
fame of "Burg's Blizzard" extended far
beyond the borders of the state. As the
organizer, commander and for many
years the sole financial sponsor of Burg's
Battery, Capt. Burg set for himself a
monument in the history of the city
which future generations will still look
back upon with pride. Although he has
rounded out three-fourths of a century
in life the captain still takes an active
interest in the affairs of the city, state
and nation and it is the ardent hope of
his many friends that he will remain
with them for many years to come.
ALDERMAN MUELLER DECIDES
NOT TO ENTER RACE.
One of the surprises of city politics
is the announcement yesterday of Aider
man Mueller of the second ward that he
would not stand for re-election to the
city council. Although his many friends
had importuned him to permit the cir
culation of a petition in his behalf he
turned a deaf ear to all their arguments.
He stated that his business does not
permit the time necessary for the proper
fulfillment of his duties as a city officer
and rather than neglect one or the other
he decided to forego the honor. Mr.
Mueller is filling the unexpired term of
Christ Ruemke who died in office.} ^"Hj*
Rumors to the effect that F. H. Retz
laff would again file for re-election, were
set at rest by Retzlaff himself by the
statement that he had not changed his
decision of a week ago and would not
accept the office under any circumstances.
Christ Filzen has started to circulate a
petition for councillor in the third ward
and several others are^ contemplating
entering the race.
MASKERSMAKE MERRY AT TUR
NER HALL.
More than a hunderd masks and
several hundred spectators attended the
annual prize masquerade of the New Ulm
Turnverein at Turner Hall last Tuesday
evening, to fittingly close the season of
festivity prior to the begining of the
season of abstinence. The gorgeous
ly gowned groups were a reminder of ye
olden days in Turner Hall, when masque
rades on a still more elaborate scale were
held annually and hundreds of dollars
were spent for costumes for a single
evening.
The official opening of the evening's
fun and frolic was shortly after 9 o'clock,
when Prince Carnival appeared on the
stage and through his decree proclaimed
the holiday and forgivenness in advance
for the infraction of any of the rules and
laws of the ordinary mortal. Alfred
Puhlmann and Miss Lou Schramm re
presented the royal couple and led the
grand march opening the evening's
danee prOgram.
The committee of judges, composed
of Messrs. J. P. Graff, Chas. Stuebe, Jr.,
and Philip Liesch and Mesdames H. N.
Somsen, Carl Crone, Sr., and J. A. Ochs,
made the following prize awards: Best
group, "Palm Beach Girls and Boys
second best group, "Ballet Dancers
best gent's mask, "Happy Hooligan"
Louis Hofmeister best lady's mask,
"Shepherdess," Miss Phyllis Neumann
best comic gent's mask, "*Flying Dutch
man," H. O. Schleuder best comic
lady's mask, "Baby Doll" Alf. Marti
be&t *ouple, "George and Martha Wash
ing! \," Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Vercoe.
I ces also were held at the Armory,
at t) Gem and Schell's hall to observe
Fast .cht.
mmmMmmtmm
BIRTH OF A NATION MOST SPEC-
TACULAR PLAY EVER PRO
DUCED IN FILM.
TEN SQUARE MILES OF GROUND
WERE USED AS BATTLE
GROUND STAGE.
D. W. Griffith's mighty spectacle
"The Birth Of A Nation" comes to the
Armory Four days. Begining Mat.
Sunday March 26,. There will be
two performances daily at 2:15 and 8:15.
Nothing like this wonderful attraction
has ever been seen upon the local boards.
It is given here exactly as it is being pre
sented in New York City where the big
drama has broken every record in the
stage history of the first city in the coun
try. In addition the piece has piled up
record engagements in Chicago, Boston,
San Francisco and Los Angeles.
It covers a wide range of American
history and touches only the highest
points of interest in the great events
that led up to and terminated the Civil
War. The force that slavery played in
producing this crisis is traced from its
inception to its abolition. While the
basic theme is historical in its foundation
its intent is the fundamental one of true
drama. The forces which make for
these results have been marshalled upon
a larger scale than was ever dreamed of
before. Where directors of vast spec
tacle have dealt with hundreds in the
past Griffith employs thousands. 18,000
people fill his stage which has a vast
territory for its background. 3,000
horses pass before your view in wild
dashes over miles of county roadway.
The decisive battles of the Civil War are
reproduced in faithful detail and you see
these conflicts fought again just as they
were waged 50 years ago. Cities were
built up only to be destroyed to lend
force and verity to the dramatic
rative. One enormous
shown stretching over an area of 10 square
miles and upon these planes and trenches
10000 soldiers clash in a mimic warfare
that is as real as if you were eyewitnesses
of the actual occurence. Holding the
great effects in tether is a story as tender
and true as love and romance can be
pictured. There are tears and smiles,
noble sacrifices and heroic deeds of per
sonal valor. Youthful dreams of Love's
fruition are rent assunder by the demons
of War home ties snap before the call
to arms and suffering such as cannot be
imagined is depicted in the crude manner
that history is made when men surrender
reason to passion and engage in a dead
lock of armed resistance.
'nQSSov^
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1916.
YIYID WAR SCENES SPRINGFIELD DRYS
SHOWN ON SCREEN
nar-
battlefield is
You see the war start after being
shown the causes which precipitated it.
(Continued on Page 2)
ARESNOWED UNDER
CONTEST RESULTS IN TWO TO
ONE VOTE IN FAVOR OF
LICENSES.
PREFERENTIAL PRIMARY VOTE
INDICATES NO INTEREST IN
FREAK LAW.
Very much of a joke„is the way in
which the presidential pref erence'primary
of Tuesday was considered by the
average voter. In New Ulm with over
1,200 voters to draw from only about
300 availed themselves of the privilege
and with the exception of the closing of
the saloons nothing happened which
drew public attention to the fact that
an election was being held. The first
ward east 139 votes, the second9 3 and
the third 167. Although there were
three ballots to choose from only the
Democratic and Republican were sought
for in two of the wards. In the first
three Prohibition voters exercised their
privilege as a voter.
About the only election of interest in
the county was the Springfield wet and
dry contest, where the wets won out by
better than two to one. The vote cast
was 233 wet and 106 dry. This defeat
of the Springfield drys is even more
decisive than that at the election of last
year.
Following are the officers elected in the
townships which reported the results
last evening
Cottonwood Supervisor, Martin
Schnobrich treasurer, Geo. C. Griebel
Clerk, Jos. J. Sperl justices of the peace,
Geo. Fischer and John W. Haas con
stables, Jacob Leitkam and Fred Thiede.
The sum of $1000 was levied for roads
and bridges and $200 for the general
township fund.
Courtland Village—President, Lorenz
^Hrnisicker Councilman, Win. F. Meyer,
Kxrdolf Holzerland, Herman Poehler.
Recorder, H. E. Stellmacher Treasurer,
Paul C. Mayer.
Courtland township Supervisors,
Henry Bode, Jr., Louis Hulke, Julius
Schroeder clerk, Fred Rengstorf treas.,
Otto Hintz.
Milford Supervisor, Louis Spell
brink clerk, Henry J. Mayer treasurer,
Fred Rolloff justice of the peace, lErwin
Spellbrink constable, Wm. Geske. For
township expenses $1,000 was levied and
$2,100 for the road and bridge fund.
Those candidates for delegates to
National conventions bearing German
names received high votes in the city
especially Mr. Gebhard, a former resi
dent of this city. Ex-Governor Eber
hart also was given a big vote through
out the city and county.
DR, O. J- SEIFERT, Health Officer.
"•^,1^, viiJiiB&jrt&x&jtte&iild
'&*»%*• tm&tai
•««~*w «S-*£^-*-
mammm
akstuM^iS^,
PRICELESS PHOTO COLLECTION
DISPLAYED AT LECTURE
Last Thursday evening a large and
appreciative audience had the pleasure
of listening to a lecture at the Congre
gational church by Fred W. Johnson on
his collection of autographed photo
graphs of the world's famous men and
women. The lecture in itself was unique.
JOHNSON
It was a digression from the usualfieldof
lecture topics in that it really was a two
hours' review of the world's history, il
lustrated by actual photographs of those
who made history and given the stamp
of authenticity by the handwriting of
the originals.
Mr. Johnson began his lecture with a
brief review of how he happened to be
come interested in this kind of work and
the divers ways in which the signed
photographs were obtained. The col
lection had its inception in the office of
the New Ulm Review some twenty-five
years ago when Mr. Johnson was editor
of this paper. Upon the walls of the old
office over the present Arbes drug store
hung photographs of some of the leading
newspaper men of that time and it
occurred to Mr. Johnson that he would
like to have a collection of the more
familiar faces of Mirihesota's editors.
The field soon broadened and it was not
long before the prominent politicians of
the State were added—the governors,
United States Senators, congressman ant
others. A chance remark by a critical
friend that he might get some of the
really big men of the country into his
collection, gave inducement to try the
broader field until finally there is hardly
a man of great prominence who does not
grace the collection with his signed photo
graph. In the fields of war and peace, in
the realms of music, art and literature,
a person interested can find hours of
diversion by just looking over the collec
tion and recalling the deeds of heroism,
the bursts of oratory, the charm of music,
To describe the collection of Mr. John
son, by taking up each individual charac
ter or photograph singly even if only fc
a brief resume of the reason for his or
prominence, would take volumes without
end. It must be seen to be appreciated—
no, not seen alone, but gone over with the
owner of the collection himself, whose
entertaining stories never fail to bring
out some point in the life and work of the
original of the picture not noted in
history and not found in books of price.
the beauties of nature as depicted by the contained a number of recommendations
artist or the interest in some book long interest to the delegates but not of
forgotten—all the product of |ome fertile import to the general public. Follow-
UimiM «M»\UnLl.. 1.^. inV 4UAH A __X 1 A
brain, probably long since passed from
the active scenes of life but still cherished
in the memory of an admiring people.
The song of a Tetrazzini mellowed by
the wonderful acoustic of the Theatre
Nationale of Mexico City, theflowerof
oratory of a Bryan, the stern commands
of a Sherman, the flash of white teeth in
the -paintings of a Defregger, or the
mysterious transformation of thistles in
to fruit of a Burbank, all are brought to
life in vivid mental reflection.
The collection never will be complete,
as it is added to constantly as new daz
zling lights spring up upon the firmament
of worldly glory.
EVERLING ELECTRIC CO. OPENS
TIRE REPAIR PLANT.
One of the busy places in town th
days is the vulcanizing and auto tire
pair plant, recently established by the
Everling Electric Co. at 5 So. Minneso
ta street. The plant is complete in every
detail and equipped withjail the latest
machinery and appliances, making re
pair work on short notice a possibility.
Albert (Bibs) Everling only recently
returned from the Twin Cities where he
took a course of instruction in the latest
methods of repairing tires and is.now
saving tubes and tires which formerly
had been discarded as useless.
The company has also taken the
Willard battery service station where
batteries for all the machines in the city
are being charged.
*'*n' '"v^***.'
•SrS-^a^*«$•«»Wo{fB!4^gf
800JE1Y,
PROTEST AGAINST
MONITION TRAFFIC
TURNERS FAVOR PLACING OF
EMBARGO ON SHIPMENTS TO
EUROPE.
BEZIRK MAY CELEBRATE GOLD-
EN ANNIVERSARY OF ITS
FOUNDING.
With the spirit of mental and bodily
training pervading the meetings the
fiftieth annual session of the Minnesota
Turnbezirk came to a close at Turner
Hall last Sunday morning. New Ulm
was honored by its selection as the head
quarters of the state society for the
coming year resolutions were passed
asking the members of congress and the
United States senators from Minnesota
to work and vote for a resolution looking
towards the placing of an embargo upon
the export of arms and munitions of war to
any of the nations now at war in Europe
the celebration of the golden jubilee of
the bezirk in the course of the present
year, and the recommendation that a
summer contest be arranged by the
"Vorort" to be held in one of the smaller
German centers of the state, were some
of the things of importance transacted
at the sessions.
The sessions opened Saturday after
noon, with Herman Vogt of Minnepolis
vice president of the state society, in,
the chair. The following delegates
were reported present: St. Anthony,
Minneapolis, Christ. Boehme, Hermann
Poeppel, Wm. Miller, Fred Lange,
Aug. Schwerdtfeger, Walter Giesmann,
C. F. L. Brown, J. F. Wachsmuth, Wm.
Kuhn, Otto Naumann, Fred Naumann
and Louis Malchow New Ulm, Fred
Pfaender, Henry Engel, Chas. Emmerich,
Aug. Marschner, Otto Oswald, Alf.
Schroeck, Hermann Hein St. Paul,
Henry Hadlich, Otto Hiersekorn, Alb'
Schintz, Wm. Staack, Wm. Kuehn,
Herman Hoenk, Leslie Strouse, Lo"is
Metzger, Karl Thiers, Fred Jessrang
Vorort, Herman Vogt, Max Simon, Geo.
Rhomberg, J. W. Dreger, Otto Hankey,
Otto Modler.
Wm. Miller of Minneapolis was elected
as permanent chairman of the conven
tion and Henry Hadlich of St. Paul and
Geo. Rhomberg of Minneapolis as sec
retaries.
Capt. Frank Burg of New Ulm, who has
been a member of the Minnesota Turn
bezirk for 45 years and who has never
failed to attend the sessions of the con
vention when such was possible, was un
animously elected honorary president of
the meeting.
The annual reports of the state officersB.
^•4
**-*titoamn*i*.
HBTdROL?
NUMBER 11
OM4ro UU1WI
ing these reports the Several committees
were appointed and adjournment taken
until 5 o'clock.
Upon reassembling reports were sub
mitted by the committee onfinance,re
porting the State Society's treasury
in a flourishing condition and the books
as accurately kept. The committee on
resolutions recommended that Turners
who have uninterruptedly followed ath
letics for twenty-five years be given di
plomas of honor and be otherwise re
cognized at the meetings of the Turn
bezirk. It developed during the dis
cussion that there are several members
in Minnesota having this distinction
and the recommendations of the com
mittee were concurred in.
The matter of selecting the head
quarters city for 1916 occasioned con
siderable discussion, as none of the three
societies felt that they could accept the
arduous duties connected with the
management of the Society's business.
After reassembling Sunday morning,
however, the New Ulm delegation an
nounced that the New Ulm Turnverein
would accept the honor and the conven
tion accordingly made the selection un
animously.
The matter of sending a class of
athletes to the next national turnfest at
Brooklyn in 1917 was discussed at some
length, but finally the recommendations
the committee that the proposition
referred to the next state convention
were agreed
Instead arranging for a turnfest
this summer had been planned by
some of the mbers of the Society it
was decided hold a. midsummer con
test in one oi he smaller cities of the
state and in his connection Young
America and Jordan were mentioned
It was the general concensus of opinion:
that these smaller cities would appreciate
the exhibition workof the active TittfiedT
more than if the contest were held in one*
of the three cities of the Bezirk. The
(Continued on Page 7.) '.
"j-~£n
2%\
