VOLUME 4.
RE
an} sj stem or
or other
ta
SAVING THE INDIAN BABIES
contammation, by preaching the gospel or
fresh air and conducting a campaign of edu
cation for mothers in the care of the baby,
has given the little strangers anew lease on
life. Today we hear comparatively little
about "the fatal second summer" and other
bugaboos of a former generation. But the
benefits of the "save the babies" crusade, it
seems, have not extended to all. Appar
ently the little Indians have been overlook
ed. Cato Sells, Indian Commissioner, has
been aroused to the necessity of doing some
thing for the papoose and doing it without
delay. He makes the startling announce
ment that threefifths of the Indian infants
die before reaching the age of five years.
He calls upon every employ of the Bureau,
doctors, nurses, teachers and matrons to as
sist in reducing this frightful percentage of
mortality.
It would seem that more important than
mv svstem of education for the older ones,
CUUL.ILIUU
1
W
One of the most encouraging develop
ments of later day civilization has been the
decrease of infant mortality. Medical sci
ence, by improving the ^"*f^ The Department of Agriculturt isfbound to
stitutmg measures for _?^
^^T^W^fi
lift of the red man, pwb
ing the babies. The abnormally high death
"rate is
conditions in the homes of the Indians and
of deep-seated ignorance of ordinary hy
giene. There must be instruction on these
points. Commissioner Sells should receive
the hearty co-operation not only of his asso
ciates, but of other branches of the
govern^
ment, notably the Public Health Sei vice in
the campaign upon which he has entered.
Pittsburg (Pa.) Chronicle-Telegraph.
MIGRATORY BIND LAW
CONTINUES IN FORCE
Washington, 1). March 15.A mis
leading statement has recently become cur
rent in newspapers of the Mississippi Val
ley and elsewhere, to the effect that the De
partment of Agriculture has suspended the
enforcement of the Federal regulations un
der the Migratory Bird Law and by this
means has enabled sportsmen, under State
laws, to shoot wild fowl the coming spring.
Under the Federal regulations as they
now stand, the season on all migratory wild
fowl is closed until next autumn through
out the United States. Federal inspectors
and wardens are required, and others inter
ested in the protection of wild fowl are re
quested, to report to the Department of Ag
riculture all cases of violations of the regu
lations, in order that proper action may be
re
ltrrat
^]f^
SUBSCRIBE FOR THE MEWS
RED LAKE, MINNESOTA, MARCH 15, 1916.
Supreme Court of the United States. The
case was argued in the Supreme Court in
October, 1915, but has not been decided.
Following the lower court decisions, Con
gress appropriated money for the purpose
of continuing the enforcemen the law.
port to the Department of Justice viola- LJ
tions of the regulations if the Supreme
Court should declare the law constitutional.
All persons, should, therefore, be warned of
the danger they incur from failure to abide
by the regulations.
AGENCY ITEMS.
Fred Graves and Frank Carl transacted
business at the Agency on the 11th.
An auction sale of condemned school and
agency horses was held at Red Lake on
March 1. Three animals were disposed of
to Omar Gravelle, Clifford Sitting and Wm.
Jourdain.
A surprise party was held at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Omar Gravelle on the 2nd
inst., it being the occasion of Mr.CulP Gravelle's
36th birthday. The evening was very pleas
antly spent by theegentlemen guests at cards.
Refreshments consisting grape punch,
Ps^Meniw
0J1s,f
wei
.ai ndiclle ^cnes,
th an rs
rtgnfltefllt briUd^prel^^ T' fWMArd. Dnehle. Blakes-
Messrs. Johnson, Goddard Doehle Blakes
lee, Geo. Gravelle, Wm. Beaulieu and Mr.
and Mrs. McDougal.
The two delegations to Washington re
turned on the 6th and Tth. Mr. N. J. Head
remained in Washington. Supt. Dickens
dates out or oie ancu t^
Mc
1
Tbe Department of Agriculture has no ton of Cross Lake, successfully operated for
power to suspendthe laws or to pardon vio- appendicitis on George, the ever.year old
lations of the regulations. Doubtless the son of Chas. F. Beaulieu, at the Agency hos-
erroneous impression, on which the news
paper statements are based, has grown out
of the pendency of litigation involving the
constitutionality of the Act of Congress ap
proved March 4,1913, under which the regu
lations were promulgated. The lower Fed
eral courts disagreed as to the validity of
the statute and the issue was carried to the
cream, cake and cigars were served. Among
Mr
Mrs
Dr
an
corree, one*
olives coffee brick
Thomas, Mr. and Mrs. H.
hayi
returne
Iowa wh
w_
erelatives
re he stopped off for
a day or two visiting and friends.
Dr. Culp departed for Chicago on the 4th
inst., where he will spend some time in post
graduate study. Mrs. Culp accompanied
the Doctor to Chicago from which point she
expected to continue on to Columbia City,
Indiana, for a visit with relatives.
Following an exposure incident to becom
ing exhausted while out in the woods hunt
ing during the recent severe cold weather,
Shah-go-se-kung, or Peter Green, contracted
pneumonia and died March 8th.
Mr. Joseph C. Omen called at the agency
last Saturday to report the birth of a son,
Jos. James, on January Tth. Mr. Omen has
been housed up pretty close the past win
ter, travel from Clearwater toward the
Agency being decidedly unattracive except
upon cases of the utmost urgency.
Supt. and Mrs. Dickens were guests for
dinner at the home of Mr. and Mrs. God
dard last Saturday evening.
Dr. Bowers of Gully, assisted by Dr. Lin-
pital last Friday.
Mah-je-gah-bow, mother .in .law of Kah-
ke-gay-be-nais, died March 10. 1916.
Mr^ Breckner and Dr. Linton drove across
from Ponemah last Friday, returning home
Sunday morning.
Glen, the 6 year old son of Mr. and Mrs.
Martin L. Fuller of Boston Lake, died last
NEWS
Monday of bronchial-pneumonia after an ill
ness of only about twelve hours duration.
Mr. Fuller was formerly employed as School
Farmer at the Red Lake School and since
leaving Red Lake has lived on his farm near
Boston Lake, about 15 miles south of here.
The heartfelt sympathy of 'their many
friends in Red Lake is extended to the fam
ily in their sad bereavement.
The Presidential Primary Election
brought out a goodly number of voters to
the polls at Spears' Store last Tuesday.
Cord-wood cutters have been unusually
active the past week, taking advantage of
the short period of sleighing yet remaining,
completing their contracts for delivery of
cord wood.
Mr. Lee of the Farm Station transacted
business at the Agency on the 1st inst., and
again on March 11th.
Dr. L. L. Culp, Agency Physician at Red
Lake since October, 1912, has been appoint
ed a Special Physician in the United States
Indian Service at Large. His congenial
companionship and marked professional
ability will be missed by employees and In
dians of the Agency and reservation, though
all are glad to know that his devotion to
duty and untiring service to the Indians
have been recognized and rewarded by the
Department in making the promotion. By
the exercise of tireless effort and strict ap
plication to hm profejasioBJkflhk^-wD ear*^4- #y~, M*J*-
the promotion. Dr. Culp is a very good
friend of the Indian and is especially in
terested in their welfare. He is devoted to
the cause of saving Indian babies and chil
dren. He took active charge of the baby
show at the Indian Fairs and the Red La
kers have lost not only an efficient physician
but a loyal and interested friend through
the removal of Dr. Culp from our midst, ft
is further regretted that the occasion of' the
promotion of Dr. Culp will be, attended by
the departure of his estimable wife, but
their host of Mends extend best wishes for
rood luck and continued success in their
enlarged field of endeavor.
FARM STATION ITEMS
Joseph Morrison spent a few days with
the Brun's this week.
Louis Gurneau's baby has been quite sick
for some time. His parents are here from
Red Lake.
Several members of the Farmers' Club
are manufacturing shingles at the Farm Sta
tion this week. John J. Spears is the engi
neer.
Mrs. Frank Brun called on Mrs. Louis
Gurneau and Mrs. E. R. Lee Sunday after
noon.
Louis Carl is in our midst again.
Solomon Blue is visiting his son, Wil
liam, near Neptune for a few days.
Henry Sayers visited Louis Gurneau the
13th.
Mr. and Mrs. Barrett and Mr. and Mrs.
Omen attended the Catholic church at Red
Lake Sunday.
f^
r
NUMBER 14
