BARM
DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO.
309.
UAHKE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1010.
PJUCE, ONE CENT.
TH
E
v.
GERMAN GAINS
PARTLY LOST
DURING NIGHT
French Counter-Attacks Are
Declared by Paris to Have
Driven Germans Out of
Certain Trenches Between
Bethincourt and Cumieres
Which They Captured
Yesterday
FRENCH STILL HOLD
LE MORT HOMME
Artillery Exchanges Were
Active' Between Bethin
court and Cumieres, but
Elsewhere the Night Was
Passed with Comparative
Quiet, Reports Paris
Paris, March 15. The Germans last
night made no further aggressive move
ment to the west of the river Meuse, ac
cording to the announcement of the war
office this afternoon. French counter
attacks between Bethincourt and Cumi
eres resulted in the reoccupation of cer
tain trenches captured by the Germans
yesterday, and French troops are still
holding the height of Le Mort Homme,
Artillery exchanges have been active be
t;ween Bethincourt and Cumieres but
elsewhere the night passed with relative
quiet.
The French official statement last night
admitted that Germans captured trenches
at two points between Bethincourt and
Le Mort Homme, saying:
"West of the Meuse the bombardment
with shells of heavy calibre against our
positions between Bethincourt and Cu
mieres redoubled in violence. In the
afternoon the Germans launched a very
powerful attack against this sector, but
were repulsed along the whole of the
front with serious losses. They took In
only two points of our trenches between
Bethincourt and Le Mort Homme."
The French .report last night also said:
"North of the Aisne the Germans
thrice essayed to penetrate our trenches
on the northwest outskirts of the Bois
Pes Buttes. None of these attempts
was successful.
"In the Argonne our artillery directed
effective fires against the sector of Pour
De Paris, where a munitions depot was
exploded as well as on the railroads, the
highways and enemy organizations in the
region of Montfaucon and Avocourt.
"North of St. Mihiel our batteries bom
barded important enemy camps in the
Heaudicourt wood and caused a great
fire in the station and storehouses at
LaMarcheen-Woevre.
"In Lorraine we shelled an enemy col
umn northeast of Delme.
"In the Vosges there was gTeat activ
ity of the two artilleries in the sector of
Chapelotte and the valley of the Thur.
Surprise attacks on the enemy trenches
at Stossweier and Carspach enabled us
to take about 60 prisoners and quite
complete material without any loss."
Croviglio, tlio pivot in the Austrian de
fenses, and in the same region tttormed
two. other pluees and seized Austrian
trendies.
The communication Issued by the Ital
ian war olliee yesterday sayai
"In the Lagarimi valley enemy artil
lery showed activity in the Koverto me,
doing nme damage to inhabited place.
Our artillery dispersed enemy working
parties between Selva and Levieo, in the
Sugnna valley, deHtroyed enemy defense
works on the Cordevolo height and in the
Cortina valley shelled transport columns
in the vicinity of Landrorienz and bom
barded the Toblach station. 1
"Along the Isonzo front torrential rains
and fog have again impeded our artil
lery und increased the impracticability
of the ground. However, our infantry
resumed their attacks with success
against enemy position, notably on t'io
Sabotino (done between ban Micbele and
San Martino del Canto Hnd eastward of
Monfalcone.
"The best results were obtained in the
San Mnrtino zone, where, after severe
artillery preparation, a Queen's infantry
brigade stormed with the bayonet and
captured a strong redoubt, making the
occupants prisoners, un their lelt otner
detachments entered and destroyed ene
my lines in the neighborhood of the San
Martino church.
'Southeast of San Martino, we took
Dante del Croviglio, which is the pivot
of the enemy's defense.
"Altogether we made 54 prisoners, in
cluding five officers, and also captured
two machine guns."
TROOPS HALT
AT BORDER
. OF MEXICO
AUSTRIA RECALLS
PORTUGAL MINISTER
Berlin, via London, March 15. Impor
tant gains for the Germans in the Ver
dun fighting west of the Meuse were an
nounced at the war office to-day. It is
said that the Germans pushed forward
their lines west of Corbeaux wood and
on the height of Le Mort Homme, cap
turing more than 1,000 prisoners.
And Has Handed Passports to Portuguese
Minister at Vienna, Thus Portend
ing a Break in Their
Relations.
London, March 15. A Iteuter dispatch
from Geneva says that Austria has re
called her minister at Lisbon and has
handed passports to the Portuguese min
ister at Vienna.
War Is Declared.
London, March 15. A dispatch to the
Kxchange Telegraph company from Rome
says that Austria has declared war on
Portugal.
In Marching Equipment, the
United States Punitive
Expedition Is Held Up, the
Reported Reason Being
Desire of Government to
Hear from Carranza
LATTER'S COMMANDER
ROJAH ASSASSINATED
mediately to fill up regimeuta on border
duty.
The step wna suggested by the army
general staff. It in urgently desired now
liecaukfl of the weakening of the border
force by tha expedition after Villa, but
ever since the patrol of the border began
the- army has been greatly handicapped
by the skeleton organization of regi
ments, companies, troop and batteries.
1 ho force that occupied era, iTur had
similar difficulties, some of the companies
there being less than forty men strong.
Secretary Baker conferred yesterday
with Senator (. hamherlam and Keprescn
tative Hay, chairman of the congressional
military committee and later Kepresen
tative Hay returned to the war depart
ment accompanied by Representative
Kalin, ranking Kep"ublican member o'.
tho House committee. The resolution
was introduced bv Representative Hay
immediately unon his return to the rani-
tol. It consideration was expedited by
unanimous consent and its passage fol
lowed, with only Representative London,
Socialist, voting against it.
CHOKING OFF PUBLICITY.
He Is Said to Have Been Shot
While Trying to Control
His Soldiers, Who Were
Threatening an Invasion
of United States U. S.
Consul at Torreon Flees
GERMANS LOSE GENERALS.
Three of Them on the French War Front
Gone.
Berlin, via London, March 15. The
deaths of three prominent German gen
erala have iust been reported here. The
Ba varian armv has 'lost Lieutenant-Gen
eral Eduard Von Graf, who retired in
1900, but returned to duty at the out
break cf the war. Wurttemburg has lost
Major-General Wilhelm Von Ixitterer and
Lieutenant-General Von Mcnges, com
mamling an Infantry division. The lat
ter died o'f heart disease in the trenches.
SHRAPNEL IN OATS
Constitutes Serious Menace to British
Horse Supply.
London, March 15. The , war offieeilias
issued an order directing cavalry officers
to have examined carefully every bushel
of oats used for the feeding of their
horses.
This order is explained by the morning
newspapers as being due to the discovery
that several consignments of oats from
the United States contained little pieces
of steel shaped and colored like oats
and which if a horse swallowed them
would be almost certain to kill the ani
mal.
SHIP COMPARTMENTS
HAD TO BE FLOODED
In Order to Extinguish Fire in After-
hold of the Herman Winter in
Portland Harbor The Loss
Last Night was $10,000.
Portland, Me., March 15. In, order to
extinguish a fire which broke out last
iglit in the after-hold, the steamer Her
man Winter wag towed to the south side
channel early to-day and the stern com
partments were flooded. The damage to
the steamer and cargo is estimated at
$100,000. The fire is believed to have
been due to spontaneous combustion. The
essel arrived from New ork on Sunday
but had been unable to discharge her
cargo because of a strike among freight
handlers.
El Paso, Tex., March 15. United
States troops, with camp broken, were
under marching equipment along the
Mevcan border west of here at daylight
to-day in at least two positions. Al
though the censors prohibited transmis
sion of information of the actual move
ment of troops it was known that those
in readiness were at Columbus and Hach
iU, N. M.
General Gavira, in command at Juarez,
said be hid received information that
American troops had not yet crossed the
border and that they were awaiting per
mission from Carranza before doing so.
General Gavira said he believed that Car
ranza's reply would be favorable.
Funston Says- It is Hurting United
States' Chances n Mexico.
San Antonio,. Texan, March 15. Majtr
General Frederick Kunston yesterday,
after declaring that news dispatches were
making public all tho essential facts lie
is trying to keep secret from Francisco
Villa, ordered a strict embargo placed on
news out of Columbus, N. M., where the
mam body of Brigadier-General John J.
Pershing s expeditionary forces awaits
word to cross into Mexico in search of
the bandit leader.
General Funston ent orders to General
Pershing to seizo the telegraph office at
Columbus, guard the telephone wires
leading out of the town and closely watch
all automobiles and other routes to tel
ephone stations in nearby towns.
COTTAGES ARE
WHOLLY BURIED
The Drifts Near Broadalbin
N. Y., Are Reported
40 Feet Deep
DRIVING BLIZZARD
ADDING TO BLANKET
The Adirondacks Are in the
Grip of a Great
Storm :
Gloversville, N. Y., March 15. The
Adirondacks were to-day in the grip of
la driving blizzard. Light inchest of snow
Foil fluK tin ( li a n.nl'inn O.a U'tl
i .a iiui iiiu iu7 iiiiib iiuicviiiK viiv
ter'a total 10 feet and nine inches. The
roads in the country districts are im-
msnnuie, ami irnuic in hub cn.v m nem -ly
at a standstill. Drifts in the vicinity
of Broadalbin are 40 feet deep and cot
tages at Canada lake are not in sight.
EXPECT A FREE BRIDGE
Marfa, Tex, March 15. The reported
death of Colonel Rojah, the Carranza
commander at Ojinaga, at the bands of
his own men, who attempted a mutiny
last night, was confirmed by telephone
advices to-day. Colonel Rojah was try
ing to control his men who were drinking
and threatening to invade the United
States when he was shot from a crowd,
according to the report.
Hachita, N. M., March 15. The second
cavalry brigade under command of Col
onel George A. Dodd completed to-day
the preparations to move forward from
Culberson's ranch on the border south
of here into Mexico. A quick movement
is expected. During the past few days
supply trains have been forwarded to
the camp with large supplies.
Torreon, Mexico, March 15. Consul A.
Williams has turned the American
consulate here over to the British vice
consul. More than 40 Americans are
waiting here to leave by a train which
has been held up for a day by a wreck
on the Monterey road.
GREAT BRITAIN MAY
CHANGE ENLISTMENT
WILL BUILD RAILROAD.
E. C. Smith Makes Affidavit of His
Intention.
Providence, R. I., March 15. "There is
no idea or intention, and never has been,
of abandoning the construction of the
Southern New England railway to this
city, and this project will be completid
just as soon as possible.
This sworn statement was made by
E. C. Smith, president of the Central Ver
mont railway and the Southern New
Knzland railwBV. on the witness stand
Lt-idon. March !.. The unexpectedly yesterday before Examiner John II. How-
early calls on married men to join the jell, at the interstate commerce eommis
anry have created such grave dissatis- i 8i"n hearing in connection with the appli
T , , . ., . ., cation of the Central Vermont road for
Motion through the country that the rmii()n t ronfinlI ihe ,.,; ,,f
Grave Dissatisfaction Through the Coun
try Has Caused Serious Atten
tion to Be Directed to Cer
tain Proposals.
Washington, D. C, March 15. State
department officials are puzzled by the
departure of Consul Williams from Tor
reon. They have given no instructions to
leave and have no report of disorder in
that region. Still they realize that Con
sul Williams must have had some good
reason for leaving. They are reluctant
to believe that the consulate was in dan
ger.
Between Woodsville and Wells River as
Result of Meetings.
Woodsville, N. H., March 15. Woods
villo is to have a new free bridge across
the Connecticut river, connecting it with
the village of Wells River, Vt., to take
the place of the present toll bridge now
used bv the Boston & Maine railroad
and for general traffic by the public,
Such was practically the unanimous de
cision of the voters of the town of Ha
verhill in town meeting yesterday at
.North Haverhill.
No article in the warrant for the town
meeting lias been so widely discussed
and the outcome so anxiously awaited
as the one reading asfollows: "To see if
the town will vote to authorize the se
lectmen to contract with the selectmen
of the town of Newbury, in the state of
Vermont, to build a free bridge across
the Connecticut river between the vil
lages of Wells River in said Newbury
and Woodsville in Haverhill at an ex
pense in proportion to the valuation of
the respective towns,, and to make, all
necessary agreements relating thereto."
-Newbury, Vt., had a similar article in
its warrant and at its town meeting
last Tuesday voted unanimously to au
thorize its selectmen to join with Ha
verhill and build the bridge. Ryegate,
Vt., at its town meeting voted to give
$.500 toward building the bridge. The
Woodsville Board of Trade has been very
active in its espousal of the project and
in co-operation with the Wells River
Hoard of Trade have been instrumental
in bringing the matter to a focus at this
time. The attendance at town meeting
yesterdav Mas especially large, the vot
ers of Woodsville being carried to North
Haverhill and return by special train
provided by the Board of Trade.
DELEGATES UNPLEDGED
And Roosevelt Boomer Was Defeated,
Two to One, in New Hampshire.
Manchester, N. H., March 15. An un
pledged delegation to the Jtepublican na
tional convention at Chicago waa chosen
yesterday at the first presidential pri
maries ever held in this state. In the
only contest of the Republican side,
Frank II. Challis of thin city, who an
nounced hi preference for Theodore
Roosevelt, was defeated by George II.
Moses of Concord, who was unpledged,
by a vote of approximately two to one.
There were no contests in either the
Democratic or Progressive parties, where
the vote was decidedly scant. Three of
the Democratic delegates-at-laree are
pledged to President Wilson, while the
fourth is unpledged. The four Progres
sive delegates-at-large are unpledged.
M0NTPELIER URGED ONWARD
By Speakers at Board of Trade Banquet
Last Evening.
Business ami professional men of
Montpelier, to the number of nearly 2'H),
together with a Hi-ore or more of promt
lient Vermonters residing outside the
city a guests, including Gov. C. W
Gates, Lieut. Gov, Hale K. Darling, J. IV
Tavlor f Burlington, Highway Commis
sioner Ktodilnrd Bated of Derby and
others gathered at the Pavilion hotel last
evening for the annual lmin(iet of the
Montpelier Hoard of Trade.
After-dinner exercises commenced at
about 10 o'clock following: the serving of
an excellent dinner by landlord T. J.
Heapliy, with President Jame N. Kstee
of the Board of Trade acting as chairman.
Lucius E. Wilson, formerly a western
er, and a resident of East Dorset for the
past 20 months, and fast becoming, ac
cording to his admission, a Vennonter
and a farmer, shared the speaking honors
of the evening with President Guy Pot
ter Benton of the University of Vermont, i
H. J. M. Jones anil Rev. Stanley F. Blom
field were the local speeehmnkers and
If. I). Hopkins entertained with several
recitations given in his inimitable manner.
Mr. Wilson bad as his subject, the
"Ideals of the Modern Board of Trade,"
ami proved to be a most interesting talk
OLD OFFICERS
GET PLACES
After Two Appointments by
' Mayor Had Been
Rejected , 4
WILSON 'jR STREETS,
"- APP FOR POOR
Ald- ten Vote to Buy Jef-
fSry Truck for Street
Department
A $.'1,100 automobile transaction and
the coniiraintion of two major appoint
ments by the mayor were among the
larger items of business occupying the
.... .. ...i
er on a subject which he evidently holds attention of the board of aldermen and
near to Ins heart. In In introductory
FUNERAL OF MRS. PATTERSON
OSBORNE CASE
IS DISMISSED
Was Held This Afternoon, Rev. J. B.
Reardon Officiating.
Funeral services over the remains of
Mrs. Ijtura Crafts Patterson, whose death
occurred at the home of her grandson,
h. 15. Guyer of ha stern avenue, Monday
morning, were held at the house this
afternoon at 2:30 o'clock. Rev. J. B.
Reardon, pastor of the Barre Universal
ist church, was the officiating clergyman.
Many old-time friends of the deceased
gathered at the services, and tbere were
a number of fine floral tributes. To
morrow the body will be taken to Crafts
bury, where interment is to be made be
side the remains of the deceased hus
band, John Patterson, who passed away
three years ago.
AFRAID OF HIS WIFE.
Washington, D. C, March . 15. Secre
tary Baker, when asked to-day if a re
quest had been received from Carranza
military officials fora delay of the Amer
ican expedition, so that the Carranza
forces might carry out their own plans
for the capture of Villa, said: "I have
nothing to say on the subject."
Washington, D. C, March 15. The
Senate to-day approved unanimously the
joint resolution adopted by the House
yesterday to bring the mobile army up
to its full strength, which would add
about 20,000 men to the present estab
lishment. BIG CARTRIDGE SEIZURE.
Says She Throws Knives at Him and
Sleeps with Axe Under Pillow.
Rutland, March 15. Theodore Beaudry
of this city has brought a divorce suit
in Rutland county court against Nellie
Beaudry for intolerable severity. Ha
claims that he is afraid to live with her
because she has thrown knives at him
and has slept with an axe under her pil
low, causing him to lose his sleep, night
after night. The woman had Beaudry ar
rested yesterday for non-support and he
promised City Judge F. G. Swmnerton
to pay her $2 weekly pending hearing of
the divorce case.
ACCUSED OF FORGERY.
Judge Ordered Jury to Bring Verdict
Freeing Sing Sing Man of
Perjury.
White Plains, N. V., March 15. Su
preme Court Justice Tompkins to-day
dismissed the indictment charging per
jury, on which Thomas Mott Osborne,
the former warden of Sing Sing prison,
was being tried. Justice Tompkins or
dered the jury to acquit the defendant
and then discharged the jury.
The indictment was dismissed on mo
tion of Osborne's attorney, who contend- j
rl limi in, jiutioipu uinumf, mil bwiic wj, frffPrv.
,.,.u ,un .in,- ,In, rik x r Sherifr w
it' i-Mivi in b nic .tiii .nii 111 rnbin tiuu,
at which Osborne was alleged to have
testified untruthfully regarding immor
ality eases.
DEATH OF GENERAL SHIVELY.
lovrnment is considering a change of it nund line from New Ixmdon, and for
poliov. Karl Kitchener and Earl JVr- j permission to operate the steamers Nar
bv are to speak to-day in the House of 1 pansett and Manhattan as a connecting
'. , ., (sound line from the lYovidence terminal
lords regarding the matter. l(lf th(1 Nw KnpUl(1 raiiw,v to
It appears quite certain that the strong t w York,
feeling of the country as to the unfair- I
ne of the existing system of recruiting
has compelled the government to recon
sider its position but whether the re
vised plicy looks in the direction of the
application of compulsion to married and
ingle men alike still is uncertain.
PIVOT POINT CAUTURED.
Italian are Reported to Have Made Im
" portant Gain.
United States Troops Halted- Consign
ment Bound for Sonora.
Douglas, Arii.. MarcTi 15. Half a mil
lion cartridges consigned to General P.
Eli.is Callcs. military governor of Sono
ra, were seized here Iat night by I'nit
ed States soldiers. Two hundred thous
and arrived in freight and three hun
dred thousand by express. A heavy guard
has been placed over them and the Amer
ican authorities are trying to trace thei-sources.
Indiana Man Had Been 111 in Washington
Many Months.
Washington, D. C, March 15. Senator
Benjamin F. Shively of Indiana died at
hospital here late yesterday after an
illness of many months.
Senator Shivery, who had been in tho
Senate since lWKt, was ranking majority
member of the foreign n flairs coniniitten
and until stricken bv illness had taken
Merton Shute Arrested at St. Johnsbury
On Several Complaints.
St. Johnsbury, March 15. Merton
Shute. alias Merton Watson, of Albany,
20- vears old, was bound over to county
court yesterday in bail of $.'100, charged
He was arresled near
H. Worthen.
It is claimed that the boy forged the
names of various residents of Hardwick,
Craftsbury and Irasburg, obtaining in
all $117. He has a mother living in
Plainfield. His father is dead.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Charles A. Caron of the City bakery
has returned to the city, after passing a
few days in Burlington on business.
Jediah Sharkey, w ho has been spending
several days with his daughter, Airs. A.
Blair, has returned to his home in north
ern New York.
Misa Helen Gordon of Orange street is
passing several days with her sister. Miss
a prominent part in upholding the hand , Mary Gordon, in Danville, where she is
of the administration in longrees. lie a teacher in the graded schools.
suffered from a complication of diseases. Mrs. Margaret Cavhue. a former regi-
During his early life Mr. Shively had 'dent of Barre, who has been visiting at
seriously considered b.-ooming a carpen- jthe home of Mrs. Ellen Frenier of Wash
ter, but when he learned that some of hU.ington street, and .w ith other relative
in Barre, returned to her home in Hd
yoke, Mass., last night.
Sec. Kred W. Suitor of the quarry
workers' international union returned to
chums were making $40 a month as
teachers, he decided to be an educator.
and entered the Northern Indiana Nor
mal school.
After he became a member of Congress the city this morning from a business
he tixk up the studv of law, and re
eeived his degree in that profession at
the t'liivt-rsity of Michigan in lHSfl.
The newspaper profession at one timo
trip to Milford, N. H.. and Quincv, Mass.,
where two of the a"ocuition branches are
located. Affair at Milford are quiet, it
is reported, while the cessation of oper-
$30,000,000 OVER-CHARGE.
Claimed By Canadian in Parliament Ses
sion at Ottawa.
Ottawa. Out., March 13 A charge that
st least fso.iKsi.isio win be taken in-jt will Be Brought Up to Full Strength
proerly from the people of the Cliitel 1 , ,
Kingdom and Canada" through orders!
for shells and fuses at exoeive prices in ! W ashington. 1. C March 15. Con-
TO RECRUIT U. S. ARMY.
alo won the senator. After teaching ations in the Quincv manufacturing dis-
M-hool fur five years, during which time'trict has had its effect on the quarry
lie san-d some' money. Mr. Shively in-Jing industry in Massachusetts,
rented his earnings in the Era, a couhtiy In commenting on the intrudm linn of
journal. For three years he struggled : military trsining at tJodtiard seminary,
along, setting type, writing editorials, ! the Springfield Reporter reviews the cir
a well as news, and hustling for adver- jcumstancea under which the military in
tising. He pave up the profession of . struct ion was started and add: "The
journalism in li.1 and devoted hi time government will provide uniforms and
lnrjely to politics. He was regarded arms, and the company, which is exped-
a strong and fichting leader and it wa'ed soon to reach .V, will lie rei-ten-d
remarks he paid Governor Gates, who
sat beside of him, a pretty compliment
when he said that in some instances
offices honor the man and in others the
man honors the oflice and he emphatical-
placed Vermont's chief executive in
the latter class.
Mr. Wilson spoke of the purpose of a
board of trade a decade ago, to grab fac-
ories for their partielar town or city
nd to fight the railroads. Similar or
ganizations in existence at the present
ime are paying little attention to those
matters.
' The speaker named the three functions
for which a board of trade now exists
s follows: To create an atmosphere of
nterprise, to teach the habit of giving.
to establish the custom of appreciation
for patriotism and public service. Those
three ideals, said Mr. Wilson, are the
basis of all values to a community.
Mr. Wilson is a staunch believer in a
town being able to "do things" without
the aid of natural resources and he even
went 10 far last evening as to assert
that natural resources are not necessary
to any town. If the atmosphere of en
terprise is created the town will grow
despite its handicaps.
To hear ut his contention he cited
many of the larger cities of the country,
such as Chicago, Oklahoma City and
Kansas City and Cleveland, where in
every instance an adjoining cityhad the
natural advantages but j failed to profit
thereby. A live town, said the speaker,
i where the cit izens are lookine forward j
with anticipation and the deal town has
within its confines persons who are for
ever looking regretfully backward.
He urged communities to keep th
youths at home, fill them with ambition
and they will build for the future. Tak
ing up his second important function, the
habit of giving, he pointed but that pros
perity reigns where money has been giv
en freely for public purposes and im
provements. The tightwad, he. said, re
gretted giving away five dollars as much
as later he would regret parting with
thousand. He averred that a city, which
does not appreciate, stifles patriotism
and never advances and he cautioned his
listeners that the board of trade is to
serve the town and not the individual
who owes the town as well.
Dr. Benton spoke on the "New Loyal
tv" and taking Montpelier as an ex
ample said that it should recognize its
neighborly obligations to Barre; one
community should do its part toward
aiding a neighbor. Every man must be
loyal to his community and to bis state
and country and have an unshakable
faith in his city, etc. The faith of per
sonal sacrifice must be instilled and it
rests largely in men, if they have the
faith, visions and dreams will be real
ized.
He predicted the day of municipal
ownerships and he said he had visions of
the possibility of service of the Ljiiver
sity of Vermont in co-operation with
boards of trade to hold young men in the
state. The speaker said that if we can
impress young men of the service they
can do and the success they can make in
the state there will be no difficulty in
holding them inside the borders.
If. J. M. Jones spoke on "Montpelier's
Duty to Her New Citizens and Indus
tries" and incidentally in his brief re
marks touched upon the fact that cheap
power is an essential needed in develop
ing new industries.
Rev. Stanley ' F. Blomflcld spoke of
"Montpelier's Opportunities," outlining
the work which v may lie done this year
by the organization.
The following is the list of guests:
(iov. C. W. Gates. Lieut. Gov. n. K. Dar
ling. H. E. Shaw, F. G. How-land. Jason
Bailey. W. IT. Vaughn. A. C. Mason. J. P.
Tavlor, M. J. Corliss, George If. Rum
ney, J. A. Stacey. R. S. Currier, J. P.
Rabidon, S. B. Bates, Edward Hanbridge
and S. L. Platka.
MEMORIAL PAPER READ
On Late John H. Senter by George Wing
Before Bar Association.
When Washington county court took a
recess yesterday afternoon, after the jur
ors had been called and received instruc
tions from Judge Butler, until o'clock
this morning, it was in respivt for T. -1.
Deavitt. for f0 years a member of the
lar, whose death ix-curred yesterday
forenoon.
A meeting of the Washinjrton County
liar association was held immediately
after the adjournment of itnirt. Judge
Butler and .Wistant Judges lale and
Ihina attending the meeting, which was
held as a memorial for the late John H.
Senter. Acoerding to resolutions drawn
up several woks ago. State Librarian
tieore Wing read a paper on the life of
Mr. Senter. and other appropriate ener
cis were carri"! out. There was a
" rrgi-irn-n ; . , , f ..!,;,,.
the Cnited Males and Canada by tie gress took active notice of the border said of him that be never enndurted P"rt of ,h" "rgsnized battalion at I . t
Canadian shell commission, was made fituation yesterday for the first time. defensive camiiaign but was always air- Norww h, where every man enlisted a 1
in the Canadian Parliament yesterday The House paed a point resolution late gressjve. ia reserve in the First Vermont regi
by William INigsIcr. one of Sir WilfreSj in the day authorizing the recruiting of 1 Senator Shively. ever ainoe be turned . ment. ddard waa always a righting
Sv. Harold Hinman of the Granhe
city council in regular and special ses
sions at city hall lust evening. Adjourn
ment found the evening far spent but
the protracted session, nevertheless, had
its compensations in more ways than
one. The question of purchasing an.
auto truck for the street department,
which lias been hanging fire these sev
eral weeks, waa settled when a motion
to buy a Jeffery army model car was
adopted unanimously. Again, the un
certainty surrounding the possible dis
placement of the present street superin
tendent and the overseer of the poor de
partment was dissipated when the may
or's appointment of J. S. Wilson to head
the street department for another vear
and his nomination of W. J. Clapp as
overseer to succeed himself were con
firmed .each bv a vote of 5 to 1. Pre
vious nominations of H. B. Partridge of .
Summer street as street superintendent
and William Hurry of Long street aa
overseer of the poor were rejected by a
vote of 5 to 1 in each instance.
Following the aldermanic session tho
council convened and went immediately
into executive session, there, to give
hearing "to such remarks as Mr. Pirie of
the Vermont Trucking & Sales company
chose to make regarding the Jenery car.
Afterward, the council emerged from
closed session and voted to purchase the
Feffery, the motion instructing the may
or and Chairman Glvsson of the street
department to sign a contract being
made by Alderman Healy and seconded
by Alderman Rossi. The contract will
lie submitted to the council for ratifica
tion at a special meeting Friday evening
at 7 o'clock. ' ;
Partial motorization of the street de.
partment is to be achieved through tha
introduction of a Jeffery army model
truck, equipped with a handVdump
body. It is a two-ton truck which tho
city is purchasing, with a 4x5K four
cylinder motor. The price is $3,100. f . o.
b. Barre, the chassis price being $2,750,
with $350 additional for the body. A
very exhaustive scrutiny of the truck
question was given by the retiring coun
cil, the investigation including an at
tempt to gain first-hand knowledge of
trucks in general by a trip to New York
in which the former mayor and members
of the street department participated.
The G. M. C, Kelly and Packard trucks.
were among the others considered. Tha
Jeffery is to be shipped from Kenosha,
is., April 15 with a guaranteed deliv
ery 10 days afterward. "City of Barre
Street Department No. 1" is to adorn
the woodwork of the machine.
Nominations Before Aldermen.
At the aldermanic session the mayor's
first nomination, that of George M. Rand
as building inspector to succeed himself, '
was ratified without a dissenting vote.
Mayor Gordon then nominated H. B.
artridge as street superintendent, but
the candidate failed of indorsement bv a
vote of 5 to 1, as heretofore stated.
There were five votes opposed and ono
ote favoring the nomination of William
Hurrv as overseer of the poor, a com
bination which eliminated the mayor's
first choice. Afterward he submitted tho
amen of Mr. Wilson for the street de
partment and Mr. Clapp as overseer with
the results as stated already. The ap
pointment of F. 1. Cutler to serve as a
member of the cemetery commission for
three years was continued by six votes.
George F. Ball of Hill street appeared
with a request for a rebate of $58 dua
him, it was claimed, because a water t
connection which he never possessed in his
Hill street property, had been charged
over a period of several years. Mr. Ball
gave a lengthy history of the case, lie
ginning with the erection of a house by .
his father back in 1SSS, when a cistern
and a copper tank were installed for
the use of spring water. Mr. Ball said
he had brought the matter to the atten
tion of the council in times past and
was ready to have some of his tenants
appear in order that the claim might he
substantiated. The matter was referred
to the water committee with instruc
tions to investigate the claim and re
port. 1-afcr it was decided to give Mr.,
Hall a hearing at a special session of thsi
council Friday night.
State Aid in Permanent Highway Work.
Barre is not going to let the opportu
nity to secure state aid for permanent
highways slip by this year, as was evi
ileneed bv the adoption of a resolution
appropriating K..100 for permanent road
work. A resolution referring to the ap
propriation of various sums of money
fur the maintenance of rity departments
was passed to a sei-ond reading without
di-ent.
City Attorny Wishart Reported.
The final move in a continuance of tl
r it v V agreement with Attorney William
ifliart. whereby he is to combine tbm
o'Ti.-es of grand juror and rity attorney
at a prii-e within reason was made wtwn
a resolution designating Mr. Wishart as
the state-paid grand juror was adoptei
tendon. March 15. The Italians ar jLauricr's parliamentary lientenanta. The the mobile regular army to full strength, hi ha. k on the carpenter trade to be- school along the line of athletics, and Mnnta.-turer association and Ale- - unanimously. luring the evening Attor
keeping up their strong infantry offer.- I assert km wan made in the e -ur-e of This means the addition of approximate come a . h. I tea. her. hat taken deep has conquered more enemjea of in rls jder Dun.an, president of the aviation. ! eev Wi.'t cave a Her men a re.iims;
Mve. began several dav ago, on the Ison- Uev h supports a resolution offered hr ly taenty thousand netting men to O-e ir.tere-t in education and fT many years Uhan ary other -hoo .n Ue Ute. This are paing a few days in Middlehury "n nf Ce .e of P. W. II Uer 1 To. v.
r front. Especially fierce hav been the i Sir Wilfred rallies for an inqmry by infantry." cavalry and tieM artillery. The was a m.H!!r of the board of trustees ban bred t.e militant spirit, which w .!! f buTw. IVf.we return. rig to Ban at ,( ,t of Hrrra. in wbi. Ii the pla nt T
.... im imnnH v" Xf.riin. it...- r...- tt. nf l'.rl, .in.nl into t h" Ir.a.. iv.nat'ia rti-tnl to concur to-.lav and f Indiana iniieritv. He was i.rrsider.t imake the summary a rood r.eruit n ' t he end of t lie . they will m.ile a 1
.1 I
tajf, tie IUl.atn cftured late 11 action of tLc V-il oouioiiatoa.
the nwsarr orders will be iuej ia f the board for several yearn.
touj4 for a m.Ltarf wtrfncj-.'
brief nifit in Boston.
(CeTitinued ea fourth paft-l
I
