VOLUMIE XXXI. t4AUIWNS, SOUTHCAROLINA, WEDNESDAY NUMBER 34196
CITY PRIMARYTO [
.BLD N[XT TU[SDAY
General Election Will Fol
low April 4th
TWO CANDIDATES
OUT FOR MAYOR
Meeting of the City Democratic Club
11eld 'Thursday Afternoon. Old Of
ficers and Sight Changes in Several
Couminttees.
At the meeting o( the City Demo
cratic club held Thursday afternoon
the time for holding the first primary
for the nomination of officers for the
proposed re-Incorporated City of Lau
tens was set for next Tuesday, March
21. Polls will be open at the Laurens
cotton mill and at the court house
In the city during the regular hours
of election. If a second primary is
necessary it will be held on the fol
lowing Tuesday and the general elec
tion will be held the Tuesday after
that, viz., April 11th.
Some doubt. existing in the minds of
the club members as to the status of
the officers of the club, it was decided
to re-elect officers in order to dissi
pate the doubt. The former officers
were unanimously re-elected, as fol
lows:
President, R. 'E. Babb.
Vice President, C. F. Brooks.
Secretary, Arthur Lee.
Treasurer, E. W. Copeland.
The following executive committee
men were elected:
Ward 1, John Armstrong; Ward 2,
John Cunningham; Ward 3, J. R. Put
nam; Ward 4, J. Wade Anderson;
Ward 5, W. L. Gray; Ward 6, J. M.
Clardy.
The following enrolling committee
was named by President Babb:
Ward 1, C. R. Moseley; Ward 2, J.
R. Ellis; Ward 3, J. R. Franks; Ward
4, J. A. Taylor; Ward 5, John Swit
zer; Ward 6, L. B. Blackwell.
The enrolling committeemen are
expected to secure the names of all
those eligible to vote in the primary,
but it has been suggested that each
qualified voter find out personally
whether or not his name is upon the
roll. This will cause any omissions to
be avoided.
Several changes were made in the
constitution of the club. One change
provided that. the primary box for the
city proper he placed in the court
house instead of in the city hall. The
other change was in the way of an en
largement. on the oath, so that the
voter would be more likely to know
exactly what he is swearing when cast
ing his vole. it. was brought out at
the meeting that, among the require
ments for voting in the primary will
be residence in the city of four months
and in the state one year. The oath
now reads as follows: "I do solemnly
swear that. I have been a resident, of
the County.' of .Len for 0ne ye
and .a residient of the ('ity of I 2aur iens
for four mionthis prior to this elect ion
and that I am du11ly quailted to v'ote
at this elect ion of the Laureinsx ity
Dem~ocraitie C'lub andi that I tiledge
myself to supplorti tihe noin~ees of' tis
electloln."
Somte dIiscu ssion ariose as IC)o lie
adlvisabil ity of doinig away with I he
pimaryl~' ailtogethle r and also inl regarid
to p~utting r'estrtictions a rondc it, buti
both l idleas, were overwhielingly op
posed, W. R. Richey, Jir., leading in the
op~position to placing restrict ions
around the primary.
Interest in the primary was given
considerable impetus by the an
nouncement the latter part of the
week that J. Calvin Owings would bo
in the race for mayor in opposition to
0. M. Blabb. As lined up now the foi
lowing will be in the race for alder
men from the resp~ective ward'(s, the
-former aldermen being given first in
each instance: Ward 1, C. H1. (Gasquie
and J. D~unk Watts; Wards 2, S. 13.
Sexton, Allen Biramlett and T. Roy
Simpson; Ward 3, J. W. Ilellams, no
opposition; WVard 4, T. C. Swiltzer
and R. T. Dunlap; Ward 5, RI. 0.
'hranks and Clyde Fowler; Ward 6,
3. J. Adams and L. 0. Hlires.
At a meeting of the execuitive com
mittee held Friday afternoon the fol
lowing election managers were namedl:
Laurens City box, J7. A. P. Moore, W.
H. Gilker'son and T. Mac Roper. Mr. WV.
Hf. Gilkerson subsequeritly requested
to be excused from serving andi 10. W.
Mfachen was named in his plae,
THE MARTIN CASE
NOW BEING TRIED
William 0. and John Martin Being
Tried for the Murder of John I.
3McPherson.
The court of general sessions con
vened Monday afternoon with Judge
John S. Wilson on the bench. Clerk
of Court Power, Sheriff Wtts, Sten
ographcr Perrin and other court at
tenlants were in their places. Court
did not convene until the afternoon
because the judge was detained ad
did not arrive for the morning session.
The grand jury organized with John
ii. Nance, of Cross 11111, as foreman.
Judge Wilson charged the jury brief
ly but pointedly as to their duties and
other court machinery was then got
ten under way.
The remainder of the afternoon was
taken up with the trial of several
petty cases. Yesterday morning the
case .of John Martin, charged with be
ing the principal, and Will Martin,
accessory, in the murder of John K.
McPherson, near Waterloo, during the
latter part of last summer, was called.
The case occupied the entire day and
will continue for some time this morn
ing. It willbe remembered that the
Martins and McPhersons, all respec
table white people, fell out over al
leged improper remarks made by Will
Martin to a daughter of McPherson.
They met on the roadside near the
Martin home and an altercation en
sued. Will AMartin Is an uncle of
John Martin. According to John lar
tin, the alleged principal in the crime,
the McPherson boys were about to
double team on his uncle, Will Mlar
tin, when he went to his uncle's as
sistance. John McPherson, who had
drawn his knife and threatened the
life of Will Martin, thereupon turned
upon him (John Martin) with the
knife and also hit him with a large
stick which lie had picked up nearby.
To protect himself from further at
tacks of McPherson, John Martin said
that he pulled his pistol and shot one
time toward the ground hoping to
frighten his assailant. Not succeed
ing in this, he shot again and hit John
McPherson in the leg, from which
wound he later died. The state's con
tention is that hard feeling had ex
isted between the .two families, that
John Martin had threatened to shoot
.Iohn McPherson and that John Mar
tin was in no immediate dager of in
jury to himself when lie shot the de
ceased. The state at tempted to prove
that John McPherson had ceased to
approach when Martin shot. The ca(
will go to the jury this mlorning.
)11. (l.INKSCALES
WON'T ENTER itCE
Denies Itmnor That lie Ma' lbe Candl.
date for Governor. Snys lie Will
Support. It, 1. Mannig.
Spartanhurg, Mareh S.-1)r. John (.
Cl inlksCales. of the Woftord college
faculty, who was a candidate for gov
ernor two years ago, last night de
nied emphaia'elly the rumor originat
ing in Columbia, that he might he a
(candlida te for governor in the pri
marlies ti s 11il sume.
l)r. ( linkseahes declared that there
was noit a slhadow of t rut h in the re
port that lhe was coniside rinhg enIter'inig
the race for goveirnor. lie' said that
be expi'Ctld to give hi's enitire Suippor't
to Gov, ihrd I. Manninug for re
election)1.
I )r. Pl Ink sea les said(, howeveri, lthat
lie never intenldedl to let til ini the
fight for comlpulIsory3 school at tend
ance unilI hiIs ideal of such legisla
ion was realized, lie said lie intendis
never' to lose an opportunlty to Putt in
a lick foi' the cause of compulsory
edlnuenation. The piresent law, Dri.
Clinkscales commented, was a "farce"
but lie hoped to see the situation con
sidlerably imiprovedh before long.
Geo. T. Magill Here..
Geo. T. Magill, Esq., of Greenwood,
was in the city yesterday in the in
terest of his candlidacy for solicitor of
this judicial circuit. This being couirt
week, Mi'. Magill was alhe to meet
with quite a number of voters and was
given a cordial reception by them, lHe
states that lie will make his caimpatign
upon his merits and reputation solely
and will rest his case with the peopile
on those issues.
At Long View.
There _will be a box suppier and
speaking at Long View school house,
F'riday night, March 24th. The pub
lie is cordially invited.
Laurenis Mill box: B. H7Putnam,
Clarence Cannon and John Childross
LAURENS MAN 01
Hon. R. A. Cooper Definitely
Thursday Morning. Ma
Blease and DeSchamps j
South Carolina political atmosptihere,
insofar as gubernatorial, candidates is
concerned, was considerably clarified
last 'Thursday morning when lion. It.
A. Cooper, of this city, ended specula
tions as to his possible candidacy by
formally announcing his intention to
be in the race this summer. The an
noucement had been awaited with a
different kind and degree of interest
in different quarters for many months
and the statement of his avowed in
tention to run laid the way open for
actual campaign work to begin. how
th- announcement was received by
various newspapers may be judged
from the press comments selected at
random and reprinted in another col
umn of this paper.
Coincidentally appeared on the same
niorning announcements by Gov. Mlan
ning that he would offer for re-elec
tion and by Prof. Clinkscales that he
w'oul( not be a candidate but pledging
his support to Gov. Manning. Other
candidates already announced arc
former Coy. Illease. .John T. Duncan.
the perennial candidate, and .1. .
i)eSchamps, of Columbia.
The statement. of Gov. Manning was
as follows:
"I will stand for reelection, to con
tinue the Work I have begun. I am
in the race to the end for clean gov
ernment, law and order. I will let
the Democrats of tie State hear from
me in detail later."
The news article as to Mr, Cooper's
announnient came from Greenwood
and was as follows:
"Robert A. Cooper of, Laurens an
nounced here tonight that he would
be a candidate for governor in the
Democratic primary this summer.
"Mr. Coopcis announcement was
mado after a conference with friends
from many sections of the State, who
had conic to Greenwood for the pur
pose of considering his duty in the
cnm',i enunaign. 'Mr. Cooper has
COY IlEED WON Fil IN'.
In Excellent, Prize Drill Among the
Young "No.l liers of the City choiis.
in the eCnlietItive d.ill in the Man
uni of Aris he'd last. Friday after
noon among the yugte soldier: of the
IreanIC0ns 'C ity SC hoal ;, It. Sergeant
Coy llet on1r phie, Corp.
I':zelle' llder; wona ., cond place amd
lI. erg. 'Tho :iw lt 'Imta:a w:;
awarded third place. The V.111iers of
the irst. two a are member:; of
Co. 11, vhlCh is (0111posd of Sevelii.
Grade boys an d Senr. iunlap is a
imitlebr of Co. A, wh. ii s composed
of -ltii grade boys. 'iThouiglh these
three were finally judge d ithe winneri
it. took all of the allotted time to se
lect. the best as the drill was excel
Ie111 in ver res et. P rf. blilton
shtowved tha tn was! n11 ot onhly beiing
w'ell trainled lbut Was interested: ill his
Mir. J. W. .\tle('< 'e return red yest erdaiiy
from1 a Itour of hiis automobile) IterI
tory, includinig ('olumbia, Newberry,
Anderlsoin, Greenv"iil1e and Senteen. lie
reports business coniditions Ilie, stat
ig that Maxwells, Oaklands and
iHaynest cars are going very r'apidly.
l'The Lautrenls Motor Car Comipany, lie
says, now has seven car loads of au
tos on1 the r'oad for the different agen
cies.
* 00-0OPERtATINO. *
* Washington, March i3.-The *
* Unmited States goverunmenit en-. *
* tered into a form. agreemtent *
* with thie defacto govermnmenit of *
* Mexico uinder whieh Anme'rlean *
* trtoopsi ii cross the( blorde'r to*
* with tile expectition of he~arty) *
* cooperaithon from the (Carrantza *
* forces. .*
* Oflilhe1u anotuncment was await. *
* od tonight that the Ameriean *
* force hlad crossed the border. *
* Plans for the troop movement *
* have gone ahead without regard*
* to the diplomatie exehmanges. *
* * * * * ** * *e * S . * * * **
IT FOR GOVERNOR
Announced his Candidacy
nning Asks for Re-election.
kIready Announced.
been here all Ile week. attending
court as solicitor for tIhis ciruit and
Greenwood is enaily accessible, hence
Its selection as a 'meeting place for
his friends.
"In making the announcement, Mr.
Cooper stated that his pllatform would
be given in due t imae. 'T'hose close to
Mr. Cooper say that lie makes the
announcement now so that his posi
tion will be known. lie has been
urged, besought and even pleaded
with by men in all sections of the
State for the past six months to offer
as a candidate for governor this sum
mer. Although missing the nomina
tion for governor two years ago by a
very close margin, around 200 votes,
it was not Mr. Cooper's intention to
thrust himself into the politlcal sit
uation in South Carolina this year. lie
at first declined all suggestions to this
effect, but the requests and the de
mand for him to offer as a candidate
have become so frequnent and so in
sistt'nt that. lie feels it a duty to yield
to the judgment of his friends in this
matter. lie has never sought pubIlic
ollIce on anything othier than his own
merit. and does not intend to deviate
fromn tis principle now."
in addition to the persnoal efforts
put forth at the meeting in Greenwood
Wednesday night, Mr. Cooper receiv
ed numerous letters, telegrams and
telephone calls urging him to run. lie
has received many letters of endorse
ment. since then.
In a letter renewing his subscrip
tion, a subscriber to The Advertiser
from Travelers Rest, the only sub
scriber It has there, appended the fol
lowing paragraph:
"I am speaking a good work for our
man Cooper. He will get three-fourtlhs
or seven-eights of the votes in this
part of the county. I hope lie will
sweep the state and roll up a fine ma
Jority. Ills friends must get busy and
I see to this part."
1 'ItE .('IiED FA REWELL SERMON.
1Rev. M. I,. Lawson Gives up Pastorate
of First. Baptist. ('hurch. Presented
i ith Silver Service.
Rev. M. I.. lawson, who has been
pastor of the l first. llaptist church
about three years, terminated his pas
torate here Sunday, preaching his
fa rewell sermon Sunday morning in
the presence of ia large congregation
compo~ed of 1m1em1bers of his own and
other chui'(cs. .lr. Lawson had
I previous ly submitted his r(signation
to take effeC on that day.
In his last seriion as pastor of the
church, .r I. Lawson made no refer
once to his resignation, but. at. its vind
Dr. IL S. uller approached the pu
pil. and in a few impressive words pre
senlted a 1hest (f handiiiisoeit' silverwareC
to himn and his wife as a 1token of tile
Congrlegatition1 beinig visibly affected lby
thle ('lo-sing 50cene in thle pastoral ieta
tionis.
the city a few wveeks after whli(h lie
will move1 1(1 \'idos1ta1, Ga., where his
son il l oii n0t1e tol pr1act i(e (dentist ry.
It is undersiitoodi that1 hie has1 refused
sever'ai very flatteing calls fr'om
lar'ge churches and will r'est for' a few
monithis at least.
Ni' announcement has been made as
to thle successor' to Mr. Law~son.
Many~ Teachers (doing.
A large number of La~urens county
teachers areo plannilng to attend the
State Teneher's Assoelation meneting inl
Colunmbia the laitter' iar't of this week.
The raiilrioads have aninounced speelal
rates on accountt oft It, a trI'il rate of
$2.55 hlavinig b(en miadie from t~Laurens.
Special r'ate tic'ket s wIll be sold today
and tomor'row only, goodl to return11
until the 20th.
Part ofI ,ine Estateo Sold.
Dri. Ri. ii. Iryso~n, of Oi'a, has ipur
chased from tile W. W. Jones estate
about 225 acres of land abiouit a mile
beyond Watts Mills between hei'e and
Ora. The exact pirice piaid for tile pro
porty was not given out, but it was
in the neighborhood of $40 per acre.
TIhe deal was negotiated throulgh TI.
Mf. Wolff, the ral entate man,
liei.ires as Assistant. Attorney General
to Devote Attention to Race for
Congress.
Col mi bia, Alarch 1-.-Fred 1i.
Dominick today resigned as assistant
attorney general.
"I have io annouitncetent to make
for the present." said Thos. it. Pee
pies, attorney general when asked it'
Nir. I ominicik's suiccessor had been
appointed.
Air. Dominick said that he would
for the next several months devote
his attention to his annvass for con
gress in the third congressional dis
trict.
.il,. Dominick was appointed assist
ant attorney general when Mr.'Pee
ples was elected three years ago.
Spartanburg Journal.
TIIIEE (OUNTIES CONCEltNED.
Peetilir Situation Arises Over Difti
culty at Island Ford Bridge in Low
er Corner of the County.
Three counties are much mixed up
in the reports that a murder had been
committed on the bridge over Saluda
river connecting Greenwood and
Laurens counties. A rowd of 200 men
gathered there Sunday to find the dead
body, when it was learned that nobody
had been killed. 'T'hen follows the
funny story revealed in lie Greenwood
.lournaI.
Ilotler Smith, a negro employed by
T. C. Anderson of Ninety-Six, was
taken in charge by two men of Ibau
renis county, Goodwin and Smith, who
alleged that the negro had broken a
contract. They had 'm0 warrant and
were advised that they should get
one, but. they took the negro anyway.
The finding of the negro's cap on
the bridge and blood stains on the
railing gave rise to the rumors of a
murder. It appears, however, that the
negro was really shot twice, though
not dangerously, and the white men
claimed that he drew a knife on them.
The shooting occurred more than half
way across the bridge from Green
wood county, but the negro ran back
to the Greenwood side and there fell,
explaining the blood on that side of
the bridge.
contrary to reports, no arrests have
been made in the case. It is very prob
able, however, that the case will be
left. for Greenwood county officials to
pirosecute as the greater part of the
difficulty occurred oit the Greellwood
sile of the river.
.' IIt. AT(''lON FOR 31\11(11 31ST.
3lIss 0:ady3S Iliulah Powers Will Give'
Entertainiment In School Auditorniumi
.1iss Gladys lleulah Powers, cel
brated as an Iipersonator and con
tralto soloist. will give an entertain
mettrit. inl the graded school auditoriiutu
on the evening of iriday .lari :"Ist.
The entertainment. will be given unim
nier the auspices of the local haiter o
the I)aughters of the American evii to
luti on and tlie ptroceeds will be devol
ed to the causes in which they are in
Ierested. She will be accom ipaitied
bty ul is- Mlarie ~\oodbiury Clarkte, who
tiraus mett withi signmal siit'te:: ini her
iarei bundiing oif t hit gerzms otf Irih
Gtemnfan, Scoich andi ingllish Sontg'S
in t(easan t cstuime chuaracteuristie of
pe(ohple wV iii a tersoinalit so3 50(harinug
that they wiin not. oiily by their ar
tistitc amiitv lbut by thte 5wet' whle~(
somie, humani ii totichI so iiecessar t'o h
realI attainment.
OPENIN(GS TlilS WEEK,
Lautrens Merchattsi are Making (Great
Prepatrations for Big Day Thursday.
Thtursday of this week will be
Spring Opening Day with the mer
chants of Lautrens andI great are the
preiairations thtat are being made for
the beauitlfuh displays of spring and
soutmer wearabi'ule(s. The millinery de
partment of ech store has been
biusy lfor wereks biuildintg thle beautIfuil
and attrat'livIe spinig moidehls in chic
an uitchaiirig hoitniet s, etc., anid the
dr 13' mdtts depart iimentIs have been
elttil3ly 3' te liast few (lays get
tiIng the new things In shape for a
prioper' dlisplay.
A t Hhickor'y Tavern.
Tlhere will be ani entertaiinent giv
en by the puills of Ilickory Tavern
School FrIday evening, Mai'ch 24tht,
beginning at 8 o'clock. A small ad
mission fee will be charged, 10c for
adults and 5c for children.
FOR IRAINNG CAMP
Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. to Be
Busy Scene
COLLEGE MEN
ARE PREFERRED
B1 h.Iibb, C'ommit.teemant fromII tis1
(liunity for the Oflicers Traininig
Camp at, Fort. Oglethorpe, Va., Try
ing to S ilure i Small Troopl f'roml
this ('lty.
Mr. I. E. Babb, committeeman frot
this county for the organization work
ing up interest in the military train
ing camp to be held at Fort Oglethorpe
this sumimer, attende(l a meeting of
the committeemen in Colitnbia last
Wednesday when plans were set on
foot to secure at least a hundred men.
from this state to attend the ca ip.
Ile stated on his return that he would
like very much to see at least half.
a dozen men from this county in at
tendance upon the cam p. The first
eamup of the senior division. composed
of me nal ready oit of college or in
business, will be opened on .May 3rd
and will continue until May ll0th. .\p
p1lica int are desired princilially It om
those who have had en!ege, univcrsi
ty or high school fraiing. thIough
11on-graduates are not exCIlud(e( A
student camp will open .iuly 50h fo'
students at least. r, feet 4 inches; In
height and bet ween the ages of Is and
30. The object of the camp is to
prepare capable citizens to at as
volunteer otlicers In case of war. Mr.
Babb states that he would he glad to
confer with anyone desiring to enter
the camp.
Quailtleatlois.
An applicant for enrollment for the
"Business and Professional" men's
camp must be (1) a citizen of the
United States or have takile out first
papers (2) between 21 and 4r years
of age (3) of sound. physical condition,
capable of hard drill and maneuver
marching with a full Infantry equip
ment; eyesight. normal or corrected
by glasses to admit of target practice;
(4) have a college edueation or the
equivalent. B1y "e(piivalelt" is tcant:
a good el l(einent. (1y edutatioc viiclt
has been sup;plemcnted by hsifne s or
p rofecssional tra~ing T1" ihis; to be
stated oil iipplicaIion Ilank.
Camnp Equipmecal :1::(1 Exp:'n"(:.
.\r'111. Ordnluanc(e and i nip (nl: .11 in-11
cluding; tw o outtlit, wvi 1 he 'urnli.:hed
by the V'titedi States Arm1 oy.
E x ensvs- -tor foul. week .xclu
sive of Iransportation to and from1
camp, and the uniforn. which costI
frolm $.0i0 to $10.100) aboti $:0a0.)
'Ibis to he deposited In advian c and
inc'!ieist; $:.00 to cover los or cam1
aiei to Ilit ed States properly wli oh is
r1.111e1nded in ('ase no loss or dlama_1 ige i's
ientreod. Th'lis rumh(VI toe seiard.
(amp e xpenses, I anil a Illinui ion 01 x
(simp; stnoe (onuc~tedl by the camtpl
(Civ ilian clothLing, efo., in Itunks anl
seit lasi5 wvill 1he prCoperly si ored.
I ust ruc tn.
Th'le piurlose of thle etunp wil ho b
to give' (a1h atteindanit as much~l of the
funidamtailll cduention of an thiiitr aIs
can bt e imiparted In thle durtat ion of the
c'amap. A certain dlefinlite routinle will
lie prescr'ibedl for all, including rifle
priact ice.
Special opportulnities u1ndher selected
officers will be offered for trainIng in
varIous branches of the service, Cav
alry, Artillery, Thngineers, Signal
Corps andl First Aid.
Those who have had a Ct'undamenltal
Infantry t raIning or have at tendled a
Military Training ('amp, may enlter'
dlirectly a trioopi of cavalry or a hat
tery (of ar1t ill ery and~ devote their time
to thliIs speleaI t ratiing, lprov ided
there ale enouitgh aptplileant s.
Exainaut ions.
No exainiiationt Is reqiredC, hut a
boarid of regulIari (0 ots on (lity at
the camp will tmake such recommilen
dations as to individlual qulilltions
as they may deem prioper, to lie flled
wIth the War Departmient.
For further informuation apply to
Omeer' In Charge,
Southern .\ilItary TraInIng Camip,
