It la not so difficult a task to £lant
new truths as to root out old errors,
for there is this parados In men: they
ran after that which is new, but are
prejudiced in favor of that which is
old.
VOL. 23 NO. 21.
v.<p></p>L^?
Their "Washington Correspond­
ents" Frame Up Opposition
to Labor's Demands.
FEAR THIS CONGRESS
WILL 60 TO EXTREME
Attempt to Arouse Interests
Against Every Kind of Re­
form Legislation.
Now comes the National Associa­
tion of Manufacturers with a warn­
ing against the committee on Indus­
trial Relations.
Below is an abstract from the
"special "Washington correspondence"
©f "American Industries," the official
monthly publication of the Associa­
tion that employed Mulhall to cor­
rupt public servants.
The article is written by one of
those rhinoceros birds that are so
common in Washington. The rhi­
noceros bird also flourishes in Afri­
can swamps. He perches on the back
of the rhinoceros and feeds on the
insects that he finds on its thick
hide. In return for this favor, he
!warns the rhinoceros of the approach
of an enemy by flying into the air
and uttering shrill cries.
How This Bird Chirps.
This particular rhinoceros bird
chirps as follows:
"Two dangers confront the busi­
ness interests of the country, both are
Immediate ana pressing dangers, al­
though* the interests have heretofore
either wholly disregarded one of
them, or looked upon it as very re­
mote, one to be considered sometime
in the distant future. The first is re­
pressive and oppressive legislation on
the part of the national and state
legislatures, and the second is the
rapid growth of socialism in the
country.
"As to the first, it is true that
President Wilson has tentatively de­
clared that no further radical legis­
lation is contemplated, yet all' indi­
cations point the other way. The re­
newed aggressiveness on the part of
the Interstate Commerce Commission
and the hints and suggestions that
have been thrown out by the Federal
Trade .. -.the -activity ,.o£.
jlabor organizations" and tfte* demands'
*they are preparing to make op....Con­
gress are all warnings to the business
of the country that a hard battle is
•before it.
Throw Scare Into Railroads.
"There was a brief time when the
Interstate Commerce Commission
gave hope that transportation lines
•were to be given some little oppor­
tunity to make earnings large enough
to enable them to meet the demands
of the public in the way of better­
ments, but such hope has been rudely
•dispelled, and today transportation
lines are once more amid the break­
ers.
"For some years organized labor
has maint med in Washington a
most persist \t and energetic lobby,
filling the gah.Mes and lobbies of the
Capitol, and besieging members of
Congress at every turn.
"Today a second lobby is added to
that headed by Mr. Gompers. The
new lobby is under the direction of
Mr. Walsh, chairman of the late Fed­
eral Industrial Commission. He has
opened up headquarters and bluntly
announced what he and his followers
propose to demand—not to ask—of
Congress.
To Abridge Power of Courts.
"One demand is a law taking away
from the courts the power to declare
Congressional enactments unconstitu­
tional especially when such enact­
ments have to do with labor in any
form. Another is that all supplies
heeded by the government, including
vessels of war, munitions, guns, etc.,
Continued on Page 2.
Without participating in discussion
regarding the size of the army and
navy, liberal and radical forces
brought together in the committee on
Industrial relations by Frank P.
Walsh are preparing to conduct a
Vigorous campaign before congress
during the coming debates on na­
tional defense.
Besides urging government manu­
facture of all munitions, and asking
that taxes be levied on inheritances
and incomes to meet the cost, Walsh
and his associates will urge that any
additional military forces be organiz­
ed on a democratic basis. They will
insist that the undemocratic militar­
istic conception concerning the com­
mon man shall not be foisted on the
country through the increased pres­
tige of the military profession that is
threatened by the defense propagan­
da.
Make Army Democratic.
To end this congress will be asked
to
provide quick and easy avenues of
promotion for deserving men in the
ranks of both the army and navy.
The. spirit of fraternity and equality
animating officers and men in certain
foreign armies will be cited as an
illustration
of
what can
PREY ON ENIPLU?tn, E
be
accom­
rriTT?
XXI
Federal Trust Busting Crusade of
Some Tears Ago Profitable
to Octopus.
OLD STOCK WORTH $675
NOW VALUED AT $2,000
Rockefeller's Shares Grows in
Value from $167,192,100 to
$421,000,000.
N.EW YORK, Jan. 6.—Wealth of
stockholders of the old Standard Oil
company, as expressed in the current
market value of those shares, has
more than tripled since the corpora­
tion was dissolved by order of the
United States supreme court in May,
1911, according to estimates.
Prior to the dissolution, John D.
Rockefeller held 247,692 out of 983,
383 shares, or, roughly speaking, 25
per cent.
At that time these holdings had a
market value of $167,192,100, figured
on a basis of $675 a share, the disso­
lution price of the stock.
Worth About $2,000.
Dow, Jones & Co. estimated that
the same shares have a presnt mar­
ket value of more than $421,000,000
on the price of $1,700 a share for old
Standard Oil stock.
As a matter of act, the value of the
old stock is considered in excess of
$1,700, which is largely a nominal
quotation, and $2,000 is regarded as
a more accurate figure.
At $2,000 a share the value of
Rockefeller's holdings would be ap­
proximately $500,000,000.
It is known, however, that some of
the stock is not now held by Rocke­
feller, for part of it has been turned
over to the Rockefeller foundation
and other institutions.
Other Fortunes Given.
Fortunes of the other big Standard
Oil men show correspondingly large
increases.
The value of the holdings of the
estate of Charles Pratt has increased
from $35,600,000 to $89,000,000.
The stock of C. W. Harkness has
increased from $29,200,000 to $72,
000,000.
^at of^WiJliarg. I«K:kefejrjer, /worth
$7,897,^ 6 O^at'the time "of the"diasolu
tion, is now calculated' to "be worth
$19,890,000.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 6.—In a re­
port by the commission on naviga­
tion it is declared that American
shipyards have under construction
now more vessels than ever before,
and that these vessels will add to an
American merchant marine whose
gross tonnage is already the largest
in the country's history. At the
present time there are ninety-eight
merchant vessels of more than 3,000
tons being built or are under con­
tract.
The total tonnage of ships under
the American flag, numbering
26,888, December 1, was 8,888,258, a
net gain of more than 50,000 tons
since July 1. There was a net gain
of 187 ships, despite 272 vessels lost,
abandoned, and sold to aliens. Twen­
ty-three came under American regis­
try from foreign registry and 436
were completed in shipyards.
The report is of especial interest
at this time, in view of the insistent
claims that the seamen's law "will
drive the American flag from the
high seas."
plished through democratic means if
congress should decide that men must
be diverted from useful pursuits to
soldiering.
Under present regulations few en­
listed men in the army and navy can
become commissioned officers, but
the number is very limited and many
obstacles are thrown in the way of
such promotion. Chairman Walsh of
the Committee on Industrial Rela­
tions in a statement issued, said:
"One of the many evil results of
militarism is the degrading ciaSte sys­
tem which has been accepted j&ven in
this free democracy as a necessary
feature of military efficiency..' If the
time comes when we must submit to
the organization of large armies In
this country in times of peace, the
spirit of democracy will be weakened
or destroyed unless we carry our de­
mocracy into these armies.
Spirit of. Brotherhood NeedM.
"Absolutism has heretofore been
accepted as necessary to discipline.
Now we know that this is not true.
The Great War has taught us that a
democratically organized army, in
which officers and men eat the same
fare at the same tables, and in Which
the spirit of brotherhood reigns, can
be as efficient, if not more efficient
in the bloody business of human
slaughter than an army organized on
an autocratic basis.
"Disastrous as are the economic.
Vd
Well, the commisisoners have gone and done It. By
a vote of three to one they passed the ordinance to
sell the old armory.
They were in such a hurry to dispose of the build­
ing and property that they could not wait for a regular
meeting to give the ordinance the second reading re­
quired by the charter, so this reading was given at one
of the famous star-chamber sessions held in the middle
of the week where so much strange city business is
transacted.
By giving the ordinance its second reading at the
star-chamber mid-week session the commissioners
shortened the time for its passage by one week.
But they haven't the last word to say on the sale of
the armory. The power to veto the ordinance Is in the
people, to whom the case will be appealed by more than
the required number of petitioners who oppose selling
such valuable city property for a song.
Before the people's court the case will be known as
"The People of Duluth vs. Mayor Prince and Commis­
sioners Voss and Silberstein." The issue will be fought
out on its merits, except that some other strange pro­
ceedings of the commissioners may be injected into it to
show the general incompetency of certain commissioners
in dealing with city business matters.
There is every reason why this ordinance should go
to the people. It is not necessary to hold a special
election for this purpose. The people can vote on it at
the coming charter election, or at one of the many other
elections to be held during the year.
Under the old ward system of government it would be
necessary for 11 out of 16 aldermen to vote in favor of
the ordinance to sell the armory before it could pass.
That was a two-thirds vote, and on top of this the mayor
had the power of veto. Every safeguard was thrown
about city property to protect it from being wantonly
given away or sold at a ridiculously low price.
Under our commission government three out of five
men can do anything they please except that which they
would be prevented from doing by the referendum, and
this used but rarely and in extreme cases. One commis­
sioner could change his mind over night and sale could
not be made. One commissioner might feel that he was
in error and suddenly decide to vote with the two com­
missioners who oppose the sale, and that would end
"WASHINGTON", Jan. 6.—The re­
port of the United States Commission
Industrial Relations has received
a. final vindication in the form of re­
buke and condemnation by "The Sur­
vey," a semi-official organ of profes­
sional philanthropists, published at
the United Charities Building in New
York.
After delaying comment four
months, The Survey devotes practi­
cally its entire issue of December 18
to an elaborate attempt to discredit
the Manly report just when that re­
port, representing the findings and
conclusions of the Commission's staff
is before Congress for action.
The job of rebuking Walsh, Mdtoly
tnd the labor members of the Com­
mission is done by John A. Fitch, an
associate editor. He devotes the first
installment to the Manly report, and
without denying a single fact or con­
clusion contained in that epoch-mak­
ing document he manages to dis­
credit it to his own satisfaction as
doubtless to the satisfaction of those
more enlightened exploiters of labor
for whom The Survey is a sort of
hired conscience.
Because he has been much in the
field and is conscientious in small
things, Mr. Fitch knows that the
Manly findings are true. He says:
"It will be readily inferred by
many that the Manly report is one of
great value, and they will be right.
Never before has any agency of the
effects of militarism, these effects are
nothing compared with the destruc­
tion of the spirit of democracy, and
there is a very real danger that this
spirit will be gradually and insidi­
ously destroyed if the big army and
navy men succeed in putting over
their program.
"The voice of the common man
must be heard in Washington in
clear, ringing tones. Powerful agen­
cies are at work to dazzle congress­
men with the glamor of world power
and an American supremacy in for­
eign trade. The congressmen who
refuse, thus to be dazled may
be called unpatriotic and provin­
cial when they insist that American
supremacy abroad must not be found­
ed on industrial injustice and eco­
nomic exploitation at home. We must
let these men show that the heart
of America, the America of workers
and producers, beats with. them.
Social Justice First.
"The' Committee on Industrial Re­
lations is militant. It does not con­
demn struggle and sacrifice. It rather
demands struggle and .sacrifice. But
we insist that the common people
of America shall not make sacrifices
to enable their exploitation to con­
quer foreign markets that they shall
not build huge armaments to protect
forfelgn interests purchased with
v-ealth that belongs and is sorely
need«d,at home.
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGE
DTJLUTH AND SUPERIOR, JANUARY 8,1916.
COMMISSIONERS VOTE TO SELL OLD ARMORY
OPPONENTS OF SALE TO APPEAL TO PEOPLE
aU
l?pair
WALSH REPORT GIVEN FflfAL VWM&TTON IN THE FORM GFHEBCKE
AND CONDEMNATION BY PROFESSIONAL PHILANTHROPISTS' ORGAN
federal government issued a pro­
nouncement that so breathed the
spirit and the bitter resentment of
organized labor. Not only has it been
officially endorsed by the two million
members of the American Federation
of Labor, but the great railroad
brotherhoods have accepted it, and it
WOULD REPEAL VITAL
CLAUSE IN SEAMEN'S LAW
WASHINGTON, Jan. 6. Con­
gressman Humphrey, of Washington,
has introduced a bill providing for
the repeal of sectioh 13 of the sea­
men's act. This section makes it
compulsory for vessels to employ a
crew 75 per ceiit of whom can
understand the language of the
ship's officers. Provisions are also
made regarding able seamen.
If the western congressman suc­
ceeds in repealing this section vessel
owners will be unrestricted in their
employment of Chinese or other
Oriental sailors.
MUSIC FEDERATION OFFICERS.
VIRGINIA, Jan. 5.—The local union of
the American Federation of Music has
elected the following officers: President,
Fred Radclifte vice president, J. Gruber
secretary-treasurer, O. Rudolph Olsen di­
rectors, Frank Meehan and John Willing.
The union has nearly doubled its member­
ship in the last year.
POWERFUL AGENCIES DAZZLE CONGRESS WITH GLAMOR OF WORLD POWER
"We need all the spirit and courage
and sacrifice of which we are pos­
sessed to conquer America for its
people. We can do this only by win­
ning for the workers and producers
the right of self-government in the
work shop, the mine, the store and
the farm, including the right of de­
termining how the products of their
toil shall be distributed.
"Dazzling figures showing the vol­
ume of our exports must be regarded
as a reproach so long as one-third of
our wage-earners receive less than
enough to maintain a decent exist­
ence and the babies of the poor who
are also the industrious die for lack
of adequate food and air.
Freedom and Justice.
"What we fear is an insidious
growth in the ,power of those whose
slogan is .'Property First.' These are
the men who see America in the
terms of trade statistics. Such men
are true to their instincts when they
glorify military power and belligerent
national pride. While we insist that
America shall be defended, if defend­
ed it must be, in the name of free­
dom and justice, they insist. that it
shall be defended in the name of
property and worldly pride."
The Committee on Industrial Re­
lations has already announced its sup­
port of a plan formulated by Con­
gressman Keating' of Colorado for
meettnfr the entire cost of additional
it, that is unless the purchasers concluded to circulate,
an initiative petition, which they would have a perfect
right to do.
•\i Now there is a possibility that the three commission
Ms who voted for the armory ordinance were in error
and the two commissioners who voted against it were
hot in error. On such a close vote there can be no rea­
dable objection to submitting the matter to the people,
/|jttie8s of course the judgment of the people is feared.
•.-'^'It. may be that the majority of people will decide
:tjbat it is good business to dispose of the armory. If
%is so decided the judgment of the three commissioners
till be vindicated. If it shall be found later that it was
a. good business deal, it will be the people's mistake,
and the commissioners will not be made to suffer for
ftt error in the judgment of a majority of the people.
•That is as plain as two and two make four.
Now the majority members of the city commission,
||nugh their press ageht the Herald reporter, who Com­
missioner Merritt says dominates the commission, and
|?ho by the way is an interested party as he is
ber of the organization which will open club rooms at
the armory in the event of the sale, gives several "rea
aons" why the property should be disposed of.
These "reasons" will be fully met and completely
galloped" during the campaign. The three commission­
's insult the people's intelligence when they attempt
156 present such flimsy "reasons" why the armory should
lie sold. To read these "reasons" one would think they
J?ere putting something over on the Shriners.
the building for the people's use-than it will for
tb& Shriners'.
The people need the building. They have no other
building so conveniently located or so well adapted for
popular use, and it is not going to be taken away from
the people without a fight.
Our cause is just, and when the people are given all
the facts and know all the truth about this armory deal
they will vote against the sale, that is if they are given
an even break by the daily papers.
Shall the armory be kept for the people? Let the
voters finally decide thp que^ion, The fight is on.
a
they say about the condition of the armory is
true the Shriners are bigger chumps that we thought they
were. But it is not true. Of course the buildifag re­
quires some repairing. If the sale is made the Shriners
expect to fix it up, and it then should be worth just as,
much to the city as it will be to the Shriners.
As a matter of fact it will require less money to re-
mem­
has been joyfully received by the
spokesmen of the I. W. W. The fact
in itself that it has been hailed with
unanimity of feeling by the leaders
of different labor groups that in
method and philosophy are opposed,
gives it vast importance.
No wonder The Survey condemns
it!
The Committee on Industrial Re
lations will not look for .any better
statement of the reason why the
Manley report should be printed in
a large .edition and made available
for every man or woman in the
United States who wants a copy.
If it voices labor's protest, if it
serves notice on the country that in­
dustrial tyranny and exploitation
must cease, if it breathes the wrath
of the workers against a system that
blights and kills thousands to en­
rich a few, then it accomplishes the
one thing that most needed accom­
plishment.
"The Manly report," says Mr. Fitch
breathes the spirit of labor." The
spirit of labor will conquer. It is
the spirit of freedom and humanity.
It will conquer with or without the
aid of those impartial men who sit
apart, obsessed with fairness toward
the oppressor, unmoV »s they peer,
calmly, through microscopes, at the
sweat and blood and tears from
which labor's wrath and labor's as­
piration have been distilled.
national defense through taxation of
incomes and inheritances. This plan,
as embodied in a bill now being draft­
ed by Keating, carries out an im­
portant plank in the committee's leg­
islative program.
The Keating bill will provide suf­
ficient funds to cover any program of
preparedness that could conceivably
be adopted, and yet it will take from
the huge accumulations of wealth in
this country less than was taken by
similar taxes from the wealthy classes
of England prior to the present war.
Tax Inheritances and Incomes.
The bill creates a "National De­
fense Fund," to consist of an annual
appropriation from the general fund
equal to the present ennual cost of
the army and navy, and of such ad­
ditional funds .for Increases for the
national defense as congress may de­
termine to be necessary. These ad­
ditional funds would be raised by
inheritance andi ncomet axes, the rates
to be fixed by congress each year at
such figures as would raise sufficient
revenue to cover the amounts of the
army and navy appropriation bills.
While the plan provides an easy
method for financing military and
naval increases, at the same time it
guards against the undue growth of
the army and navy because it gives
to the class in the community who
can most easily make their influence
felt, a direct financial interest in
KESOTA
Three Men Have It Within Their
Power to Suppress Walsh,
Report.
ALL SEEM FAVORABLE
TO WIDEST PUBLICITY
People Should Appeal to Congress
for Action On Most Important
Resolution.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 6.—Here are
the three men who today have the
power to suppress the truth about in­
dustrial relations or to give it to the
people:
Henry A. Barnhart, of Rochester,
Indiana, chairman, Committee on
Printing, House of Representatives.
Clyde H. Tavenner, of Cordova,
Illinois, member of Committee on
Printing.
Edgar Raymond Kiess, of Will
iamsport, Pennsylvania, member of
Committee on Printing.
Printing Committee To Act.
As members of the printing com­
mittee in the lower House, these Con­
gressmen must decide within the next
few weeks how many copies of the
report of the commission on Indus­
trial Relations they shall ask Con­
gress to order printed.
Labor is asking for 200,000 copies.
There is good reason for believing
that the committee on printing, to
which was referred the Lewis reso­
lution calling for that number, will
indorse the request as moderate and
amply justified by the demand.
Tavenner Can Be Trusted.
Mr. Tavenner is author of the bill
to take the profit out of war by re­
quiring that all munitions and battle­
ships be manufactured in government
plants.
Mr. Kiess has given assurance that
he believes the report should be
printed in a large enough edition to
supply the demand. That would mean
twice as many copies as are called
for by the Lewis resolution which
was purposely made conservative as
to the number of reports asked for.
Chairman Barnhart is believed to
be favorable to the resolution. The
test will .come when the committee
meets early in January to decide
what, recommendation it -spill- lay.
^eforeCongress..
Letters and appeals for favorable
action should be addressed to the
chairman of the committee.
COLUMBUS, Ohio, Jan. 6.
Members of the Ohio Manufacturers'
association, in convention in this
city, were given a jolt by Arthur J.
Eddy, of Chicago, who discussed the
labor features of the Clayton anti­
trust law.
"Don't confound labor with so
many pounds of sugar or so many
tons of sand or steel," said the
speaker. "Labor is not a commodity.
It's a human proposition and the
sooner you gentlemen recognize that
fact the better it will be for you."
It might be stated that the Chi­
cago man is not a trade unionist,
even though he expresses the views
so long insisted by organized labor.
Mr. Eddy is a lawyer.
The manufacturers indorsed the
workmen's compensation law and
protested against the removal of
members of the state industrial com­
mission for mere partisan reasons.
This position is identical with that
of organized labor.
keeping these increases down to the
lowest safe point.
Investigations conducted by Basil
M. Manly, Director of the Committee
on Industrial Relations, have pro­
duced data showing that President
Wilson's program of preparedness can
be financed by moderate increases in
the income tax rates and the im­
position of a moderate federal tax
on inheritances. This data will be
published shortly by the committee.
In a statement Mr. Keating said:
On Necessities, Not Luxuries.
"The people will not and should not
tolerate any plan for raising revenue
that increases the cost of the neces­
sities and small luxuries of the poor,
or that reduces the incomes of fami­
lies that are struggling alone on
small salaries. Such a plan is the
proposal to extend the special war
tax, to tax gasoline, to reduce the
limit of exemption for the income tax,
and worst of all, to re-establish tariffs
by which the government revenues
profit less than do the dealers who
make these tariffs an excuse for high
prices.
"Any increase in the burden of
military and naval expenditures must
fall on those best' able to to bear
it and, therefore, it must fall on that
class which possesses the greater
part of the nation's wealth.
"The report of-Mr. Basil. M. Mcuily,
director of research and investigation
As long as mankina shaR~ continue
to bestow more libend applause on
their destroyers than on their bene­
factors, the thirst of military glory
will ever be the vice of exalted
characters.
TWO CENTS.
Luke Grant, Well Known Labor
Writer, Sees Much Promise
in Plan.
BJJX HE INSISTS LABOR
SHOULD BE ON GUARD
Unions Must See That Wage
Earners Are Represented On
Commission.
By LUKE GRANT.
Like a tidal wave, the sentiment in
favor of a non-partisan tariff com­
mission is sweeping over the country.
Politicians, who at first tried to stem
the tide, are fleeing to the high
places. They are finding they must
go with the tide or be swamped. Re­
ports from Washington indicate that
the opposition to a tariff commission
is on the point of surrender.
Organized labor is playing its part
in the campaign. Since the American
Federation of Labor convention at
San Francisco sounded the keynote
that the tariff must be taken out of
politics, the unions everywhere have
taken up the refrain and are pushiiig
the issue. Samuel Gompers, the
"Grand Old Man" of the labor move­
ment, is sending labor's message
throughout the land in ringing tones.
The campaign virtually is won.
Note Warning Given.
But a note of warning to labor
must be sounded. There no longer
appears a doubt that the present
Congress will create a tariff commis­
sion of some kind. The question Is,
will it create the kind of a commis­
sion that labor demands and that it
is entitled to have? Will labor be di­
rectly represented on that commis­
sion? That is the point demanding
labor's immediate attention.
The Tariff Commission league has
from its inception declared that a
tariff commission must be represen­
tative of all the interests in the coun­
try, and that it must be non-parti­
san. The league is non-political -In
character, with no axes to grind. It
holds that labor and agriculture are
as vitally interested in the tariff,
question, as are manufacturers and:
commerce. It proposes, therefore,
that labor and agriculture must be
-represented on a tariff, Commission.
labor Must Be* Re&f^iwdL
$nl& proposed recognition oflabor*
has aroused opposition in certain
quarters. There are those who fear
the power and influence of organized
labor. Others oppose it for economic
reasons. This opposition must be de­
feated. Labor must see to it that it
has direct representation on any
tariff commission that is created. The
time for action is now, before Con­
gress acts.
The tariff commission proposed by
the Tariff Commission league gives
labor the recognition to Which it. is
entitled. Will you get behind the
league and help fight your .own bat­
tle? Or will you by inaction and lack
of interest, allow this -opportunity to.
go by? Remember it rests with you
and if organized labor is ignored in
the bill creating a tariff commission,
the blame will rest upon you.
No Need for Argument.
It is unnecessary here to point out
why there ought to be a non-partisan
tariff commission. The old log-roll­
ing, political methods of making tar­
iff schedules are well known to all.
Practically every responsible leader
of labor in the country has con­
demned the old methods and has de­
manded a change. The people gen­
erally are aroused, for this is a move­
ment of the people. They demand
scientific accuracy instead of political
guesswork in tariff enactments.
Act now. Adopt resolutions and
send them to your Senators and Rep­
resentatives in Congress.
for the United States Commission on
Industrial Relations, shows that:
''Between one-fourth and one-third
of the male workers 18 years of age
and over, in factories and mines, earn
less than $10 per week. From twd
thlrds to three-fourths earn less than
$15 per week.
"There are in the United States
1598 fortunes yielding an income of
$100,000 or more per year.
"Forty-four families in 1914 had
incomes of $1,000,000 or more each.
"Two per cent of the people own
60 per cent, of the wealth,
"Thirty-three-per cent, of the peo­
ple own 35 per cent, of the wealth*
People Don't Own Wealth.
"Sixty-five per cent, of the people
own 5 per cent, of the wealth.
"With these figures before it con­
gress cannot fail to see the force of
the proposal to raise additional rev­
enue by means of income and in­
heritance taxes.
"The difficulties in the way of levy­
ing an income tax are not important
and can be easily overcome. I am
now gathering data showing that only
a few states now effectively, tax in­
heritances and that the total amount
raised in this way is trifling compared
with the revenues that would be
raised by a federal inheritance-tax at
rates not higher than those., of' the
States, and. far below those inEng
land before the war."
'I
4
4
