v
NIGHT
EXTRA
illrtiger
ittiemn
NIGHT
EXTRA
:c rr
voii. n-No. 100
rinLAPJSLPlIIA, SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1910.
Cortfiionr, 1010, lit mi rcstto Linoo CouriNt.
PRICE ONE OBNT
PLOT TO WRECK
IRON PLANT IN
OHIO BLOCKED
Jlilitia Frustrate Strikers'
Conspiracy in East
Youngstown
fOBDER NOW RESTORED
One Man Killed, 40 Injured In
Riota Fire Damage
$1,600,000
rtroT vnttNGSTOWN. O., Jan. 8. A
eontplracy by strikers to blow up tlio
iunt Of tlio iiopuoiiu nun u-iiu oicci
1 Company tonight was frustrated by State
' lrJSL.,i..l "militiamen nvcrhennl the
rtotwrs plans, nnd reported to Colonel
f & C. Welbrccht. Brigadier Ocncral J
N0 Speaks, commanding. Immediately or
Vi,ni troops to guard the plant,
r iTnv hlch-snlarlcd officials of the
l&Teunratown Sheet nnd Tube Company
'IMay were summit "- '"'" " "-
s'tant. If tho llres should go out the
ifurnaccs would bo ruined. Tho lowest
MUry Ot an- OI llit-ou "intium i uvw
per year.
1 Doth the Youngstown nncci niui iimn
I'? ..u ihi nenubllc Iron and Steel Com-
P1 ranr were closed clown. Officials Bald no
iM slttmpt would bo made to run the plants
I Blltll StntC nnu cuinilj uintim.i iisomuii
i them order woum h hihhuuiiii-u.
Doth plants employ a total of 13,500
nun. O' "'Is number nbout C000 nro
.irfkfrs. tho rest being forced Into Idle-
i ns becauso tho plants could not oper
ate.
Yesterday ail inucpcimcni Ki-n compa
nies here, following the lead of tho United
BUtes Steel Corporation, Increased pay
or all employes, numberli.tr, 20,000. This
would bp 22 cents per hour for tho men
tinir on strike, but union lenders said they
i wuld hold out for all demands, Tho
' ttrtVers demand 23 cents an hour.
The- Briar Hill Steel Company nnd tho
f loungstown Iron and Steel Company,
a though not affected by tho strike, agreed
" to tho 10 per cent, wage Increase.
Eut Youngstown was reported quiet
early today. All rioting had ceased by
I ('clock this morning.
The State industrial commission tooay
decided to send Fred C. Croxton, chief
mediator, hero In an attempt to settle
the strike. Croxton will bo accompanied
by W. J. Boescl nnd George r. lilies as
deputies.
Ono person Is dead, 40 others were
Inlured. half of them seriously; moro than
104 rioters nro under arrest and a loss
of 11,600,000 was caused In n flre-swcpt
areaof half a mllo square as tho result of
last night's rioting.
The rioting last night broke out In nn
East Youngstown saloon. It was looted
and the torch applied. Tho liquor was
confiscated by tho ernzed mob nnd under
Its Influence tho rioters marched from
Wafce to place applying tho torch and
aiootlng.
KVWlhi orijiour Uio,JhaJfamlle,arca was-
vsea or names., firemen irom loungs
Nwn were called, but wero held back by
tbe mob.
.The rioters continued their worlc and
fery tlmo there was any Indication the
pre migtit mo uown tne torcn again was
applied.
s Among- tho buildings destroyed were
Hamory's private bank, tho Knst Youngs
toirn Dostoftlce. 12 saloons nnd scores of
ikOalnesi houses of every kind. The num-
wroi buildings razed is about oa.
;vIt was reported early today that the
jojtofllce was looted befo're being burned,
out -this cannot bo verllled.
''The plant of tho Youngstown Sheet and
,Taia Company today resembles a penl-
Ueuary. Enrlr In the morning two com-
nMes were ordered lnsldo the big plant's
"jado to help tho 100 armed men who,
wi wun repeating riues, nnu guarucu
Vttoompany's property through tho night
or terror,
,About 300 officers and employes, many
f the latter girl clerks nnd stenographers,
ire marooned In the plant. They cannot
UW to their homes, and throughout the
t were forced to got what little rest
;y could In whatever way they could,
th morning came hunger. Some of the
MI daring of tho clerks agreed to get
woo.
They left nnd one by one returned with
WPllea they had been able to get. Stcn
iraphers rolled up their sleeves and be
came cooks, clerks forgot their dignity
ml became waiters, and even clerical de
partment heads did what they could to
Kt tho meal ready nnd serve It.
I; -THE WEATHER
'"lYua.t has hprntrin nt flirt r.nnd nlil Hnvn
Mhor a man could know that the sun
JM up without having to remember that
M learned tho fact of Ita dally occurrence
m tils geography book In we wero go
ij to say the llttlo old red Bchcolhouso
the hill, but believing Jn the realistic
.- wo win make It that hideous green
White, building at the corner of and
Trr "reels, if this keeps up those old
"fWenrarten Inftinit.fntxa nhnnt luilnrr
od little boys and girls carrying good-
g u cneeriness "llko a ray of sun-
pi -utrever place wo go" will Have
Jte edited to read "llko nn old urn-
SiS. accuracy. However, that day on
jp "o maue all those ephemeral reso
,JJM to carry out certain drastic re
J w our conduct from day to day
l"Blor than a week nnst. nnd most-nf
IioCt!' forgotten our promises and are
?rt lire once more.
. "wonslns, as It wero, our weak past.
Fonna.iftT
Jr Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
E8r ' "e"m" ri'f temperature
i senile northerly winds 6c
J"3 variable).
felb tee page S.
WST AND -FOTTNn
STvT? .
Waitn.la,),i5n,,JantJ,arrLa. iade, on
E7N mill ,I T.. . ul 1UIC, . 8UIU1DI
W. lif?.'i;.K..W' ty returufnc to Itooin
BwiautiL fPiV evenlnjc. on or oear
. 5jI? Si?' "i1"" containing ome
BS?" tlnaiT,nVi7 .uu Vm." c"Hinic caroa.
pLftoi jif notUf M- V- u- Montgomery,
tK;ISlS!SB. & ? moth ier..?;
fek?i ari?r,nenk w,utom
K5SSffl.Mr. OwaldLChew Radnor. Pa
Itfr 5 month? i..b,a5lc ?1J white witter
MfiTTiSr2. 'Qto', -" Chcmtnut lllll
6-Tmi??ai. laa;
hSfrtianui'', c.'V-ac watch 1
Kria8?."0, 31. 'brooch with
PiUrtarJiJo",, "award If returned to
tier fl- " - -
l 4d o rwtt IK 4 al 17
'aDD and Birsky,
Y. W. C. A. WOMEN PRAY FOR END
r. tL L ' i ' - -J ' il i ii Ill nn i i.
"This was a scene today in the Ccntrnl Y. W. C. A. Miss Emille WyckoflT
YANKEE GABY WHO COST
EMPEROR HIS THRONE
DIES ON LONELY FARM
Emma Linden Ran Away at 16,
Came to Philadelphia, Thence
to Brazil nnd
Notoriety
STARTED A REVOLUTION
Ono day in 188." there. Jumped lightly
oft n train In Uroail Street Station a Blip
of a fjlrl, a pretty girl with happy blue
eyes that wero forever dancing about
from Right to sight and flattering even
porters with gracious mnllcs.
It wna Kmma Linden, then In her 10th
year and only vaguely awaro of her abil
ity to send Imperial crowns tumbling nnd
Imperial thrones tottering, llko Gaby Des
lys. Sho ltnow she could do it, but did not
know there was to bo a chance. Pedro
11. Umporgr of Ilrazll, had not yet Been
her. Sho was the "daby" of her day, a
"Ynnltco 'Onby."
She hat! run away from tho bleak llt
tlo farm of her parents, four miles out
sldo of Taunton, Mass., two--cars before,
when she was-to. Yesterday, nlonc, -on
that .same lUUe"b1eU nrtlIom!ly",New
Englnnd farm, sho, died. NewB of her
death reached friends In this city today.
She was the hello of that trlto Now
England community. Sho could havo
married any one of the heirs to the pretty
fartna nround Taunton. But she trilled
with them nnd laughed them to scorn.
Those roving blue eyes seemed to look
out upon vistas of adventuro that the
swains of Taunton and vicinity dreamed
not of.
RAN AWAY AT 16.
JIary Anderson, the actress, was her
Ideal. Mary had become an. actress nt
tho age of 1C, and so Emma becaino an
actress at the age of 16. She ran away
from tho old farm, much to the disgust
and sorrow of her parents, and went to
Trovldence. She got a stage engagement
at onco on tho strength of hor good looks,
trnveled, and came to this city just In
tlmo to meet jr. Ualbrlgga. n variety per
former, who amused her so much that
sho married him.
In the course of tho travels of Halbrlgga
and his charmlngj young wife, thoy found
themsolves In Itlo do Janeiro. That gay
and dashing capital, which, with half a
dozen other Latin cities, shares the tltlo
of "Llttlo I'arls," fascinated Emma.
Sho loved the soft Portuguese of tho
glided youth and, being a real American
girl, sho loved the Idea of there being
a King In town moro than a King, an
Emperor, no less than his Imperial Ma
jesty Pedro II, Emperor of all tho Brazils
and of all the fierce lights that beat
upon a throne,
A shrewd eye would havo seen revo
lution brewing In the cares; a nose for
economics would have amelled revolution
In tho balmy air of tho plazas and their
military bands and betgnrs. If Emma
saw and smelled It, sho didn't care.
FALLS UNDER HORSES' HOOFS.
Ono day she was out walking. In the
distance there was the flash of awards of
brilliantly uniformed and plumed guards
on galloping horses, flags, music,' wnVing
Continued on lae Thrrej Column One
ALTRESEICLASSISON.
RICHIAMATE IN ITALIA
La Villa d'Este, Proprieta' di
Francesco Giuseppe, K Stata
Confiscata dall'Italia
II Mlnlstero dclla Querra Itallano ha
rlchlamato alle arml set altro clasal dl
rlservlstl appnrtenentl alia fanterla ed
all'artlsllerla da coata. Questl nuovl rlchl
amatl devono presentarsl al rlspettlvl
corpl II 12 del corrente meso dl gennalo.
Jl generate Cadorna ha annunclato nel
buo comunlcato ufflciale dl lerl che le
truppe Italians operant! nella zona dl
niva hanno attaccato dl sorpresa ed
hanno conqulstato buona posizlono aus
Irlaca a San Giovanni,
II governo, Itallano ha confiscate la
splendida Villa d'Este a Tlvoli, che era
oroprleta' dell'lroperatore Francesco Giu
seppe d'Auatrta. La villa e' stata tras
formata in ospedale mllltare.
(Leggere n 4a paglna le ultlme o plu
dettagllato notlzle suUa sfuerra. In Hal
Uno.) Cleveland's Cousin Gets Raise at 80
WASHINGTON. Jan. 8. Miss Oynthia
Cleveland, a cousin of former President
Cleveland, today was promoted from a
11000 clerkship to a 1200 clerkship in the
ollice of tho Auditor for the State and
other departments by Secretary of tho
Treasury MeAdoo, Mtsa Cleveland la
nearly SO years of age.
Montague Glass' New Characters, Dipeu$s "Preparefulness" in Their Inimitable,
GRIP CAUSES 251
DEATHS IN YEAR'S
FIRST WEEK HERE
Mortality Rate Slightly
Lower, but Epidemic
Persists
BIG FALL IN NEW CASES
Statistics Throwing Light
on Epidemic in City
Total drntliM lnt urtk of Drcrmliir. 017
Tnliil dentin llrnt Mrfk of .Innunry.. 8.18
Tnlnl drnthH llrnt nrrk vl 101.1 33!)
DrntliH from pneumonia flrnt uerk
f lUtfl 231
n tinruninnlu ru,r rrnurti'it lunt
uerk 3.18
Xru pneumonia coffN reported luitt
wrrk nt Drrembrr 408
Statistics for the week, announced to
day, show a slight falling oil In the city's
deaths from all causes, but the percentage
of deaths from pneumonia nnd all dls
cases directly; .err Indirectly ..traceable to
tlio grip epidemic Is still high and demon
strates the necessity for tlio steps Di
rector Krusflti and the Hoard of Health
aro taking to prevent tho spread of grip
nnd pneumonia. . .
The now Health Director will announce'
today or Monday a commission of promi
nent physicians who will study the pneu
monia epidemic. Its causes and preventive
methods.
There were KS deaths from all causes
In the city In the first week of 1916, end
ing today. Of these no fewer than 231
were caused by pneumonln and broncho
pneumonia, but kindred diseases result
ing from grip nnd heavy colds bring the
epidemic total to a higher percentage.
The total, however, falls 89 below last
week's mortality, which was 917. Iu that
week, the last of the old year, the results
of tho grip epidemic were moat keenly
felt.
The most encouraging feature of to
day's report Is that there was a big de
crease In tho new pneumonia cases re
ported, 258 for tho week as compared with
103 for the preceding week. Ono Interest-
Continued on I'aB Tho, Column l'lte
O'BOLGER RAPS MOVIES
AS VULGAR, DISTORTING
AND GROTESQUE MASS
Board of Censors Also Comes
in for Professor's Wrath in
Attack on Films as Sub
stitute for Drama
AUDIENCE LAUDS BLAST
' "Vulgarity, distortion and groesquerle"
were some of the (unllflcatlons attributed
to present-day moylng pictures by T.
Dennis O'Bolger. assistant professor of
English at tho University of. I'ennsylva
nla, In a lecture In Houston Hall this
afternoon. He was equally emphatic In
denouncing the board of censors,
The auditorium was crowded and at
various points n Professor O'polger's ad
dress there was enthusiastic applause. Ills
subject was "The- Drama, the Photo-play
and Education." After tracing the history
of the stage front Its earliest period, the
lecturer said:
"Tho Hoard of Censors that exist at
present is only nn evil. It would bo a
laughing stock If It were not that Its ex
istence serves the reverse purposo of
giving authority and Indorsement to scan
dalously distorted travesties upon life. I
put It to any thinking man to deduct
from the next attempt at a serious repre
sentation that he sees on "tho screen"
the presence and consequence of the fol
lowing paraphernalia, and say what the
remainder will be; Drugs, drink, tobacco,
firearms, daggers, rapine, fraud, -greasy-eyed
animal passion, thievery, robbery,
Continued on Pace blx, Column One
Mercurial Cavortings on
Winter's Coldest Day
6 a. in... , 19
7 a. m , 19
8 L !& ! Xo
10 u n t ?
11 a. m 22
12 noon ..,.. 24
1 p.m 25
2p.m 26.
OF ILL LUCK
Vaughan, secretary, led in prayer.
ENTIRE CITY PRAYS
THAT Y. W. C. A. 'JINX'
MAY BE REMOVED
Mrs. Cyrus D. Foss, a Vice Pres
ident of Central Branch, Says
a "Mysterious Something"
Obstructs Progress
BUILDING FUND TIED UP
City-wide prayers to God to remove that
Intangible something that seems to ob
struct tho progress of the Young Women's
Christian Association, nt 18th nnd Arch
streets, nro being sent heavenward to
day by Philadelphia women and girls In
homes of wealth nnd of povcity. in fac
tories, shops, offices nnd stores.
Llko Jehovah led the Israelites escap
ing from Egyptian slavery out of tho
wilderness Into Urn Promised Land, ho
tho women who foster the Young Wom
en's Christian Association expect Mini to
wipe nway .hut vague cloud of unrest,
that Indcllnlte ill omen, unexplained and
Inexplicable, that seems to howr over
tho blg'homq nnd Its affairs.
Whatever It Is, It has been, a "thyrn In
( the, flesh," of the nsKo'cjiatlpn.- n hns-ltooH
'In UfeTway' .ofttlje, progress which tho
women in charge y.ipccica;. it uau
thwarted progressive, moves; It has pre
vented financial assistance at times. And
now, human effort having pioved lm
i potent to remove the mysterious obstacle,
God Is being called upon to Intercede) for
tho home which shelters girls.
To win a tanglbto victory nt tho ex
pense of the lntnnglble "things," n mass
meeting will be held tomorrow afternoon.
I'rayers will bo olfered at tho meeting
nnd In all corners of tho city by women
and girls, beseeching' Divine guldnnco for
the board of managers of tho asc elation,
when they mett Monday to dlscus3 the
proposed federation with the Germnntown
Y. W. C, A. nnd other matters affecting
the association's welfare.
The prayers nt tho meeting will be led
by Miss Emlllo Vaughan, tho new reli
gious secretary, under whoso leadership
the light against tho "thing" Is progress
ing. Individual prayer also is asked of all
young women of the city, to remove the
blighting enigma, At bedsides, In soft
carpeted rooms and small ballrooms,
Continued on 1'nge Slv, Column Tho
THIEF UNDER HER BED,
SHE DIDNT FAINT; SHE
CAUGHT HIM, A FRIEND
Miss Lizer, Demure Stenog
rapher, Didn't Recognize His
Protruding Feet, So He
Was Landed in Jail
FROM HER "HOME TOWN"
' The presence of mind of a demure miss
today led to -the capture of an alleged
burglar n her room, after a thrilling
hand-to-hand battle between the man and
her rescuers.
Apd, the Intruder, H develops was a
friend of the girl. Ha didn't know that
he was robbing- her and she didn't know
that It was he who wW'under" her bed,
for only his feet protruded and Bhe didn't
recognize them. J
Whenfthe'dtist'Ct,battle had cleaned and
the man -surrenderedho looked at her In
amazement.
"Great Scott!" .he exclaimed. "Miss
Lizer, I djdnt know this Is your room."
Miss Mamie Lizer, for thqt Is the hero
ine's name, should have fainted, as story
book herolncs-UHually da under such cir
cumstances. But sho didn't. She looked
at him.
Miss Lizer, who la a, stenographer
rooming at . UiU Chadwlck street, was
taking her purse from her, bureau this
morning, preparatory to going to work,
when she noticed that it had been emptied
of several dollars. She had just eaten
breakfast. Then she remembered having
heard a strange noise as she entered her
room and-rhorriral There was a. pair of
feet sticking out from under the little
white bed men's feet,
A conventional thing to do would have
been to scream. But. Miss Lizer merely
hummed a little tune and quietly left the
room- When she returned John Luff
berry,, head of the liouehpld, was with,
her. He pulled the Intruder out and the
man showed nht.
Luffberry, who la handy with his, fists,
dragged the man Into the centre of the
room and attenipted to overpower him.
The intruder, a long, rangy chap, put up
a fierce tight.' He. gained his fee and
soon wa "swapping swats" with Luff-
YiiatlaiMd oa Pace Klae, Column nrite
3 YEGGMEN SHOT
FIGHTING POLICE
IN POWDER TOWN
Five Captured in Act of
Robbing Postofiice at
Pennsgrove
CITIZENS JOIN BATTLE
Officials, "Tipped Off," Lie in
Ambush Swamps Searched
for One Who Escaped
Armed bandits battled with police nnd
postal Inspectors nt Pennsgrove today
when they were cnught In tho net at rob
bing the postofiice. Mnny Bhotn were
exchanged, three of tho bnndlts being
wounded. I'lvo of the men were enptured
nnd four escaped. Ono of them Is now
being hunted by police nnd mined citi
zens in a swamp near Pennsgrove.
That tlio men had planned wholesale
lohberlcs of buuku, trust companies and
i post offices In the vicinity of Philadelphia
i nnd Camden was the belief expressed by
Chief Poitnl Inspector Cortelyou nt the
hearing today. Memoranda found In their
pockets, the completeness of their pnrn
phernnlln, which experts declnro to bo
the most up-to-date and cffectlvo burglar
tools they havo ever seen, wero respon
sible for this declaration on the part of
Inspector Cortelyou.
The fight, which stirred the town, oc
curred shortly nfter 3 o'clock this morn
ing. .Suspecting that nn attempt would
bo made to rob tho postofiice, postal In
spectors and police surrounded the build
ing nnd waited nil night, ftom behind
porcli railings, nwnlngs nnd boxes.
Tlio spoils which tho men wero after
was tho pay df tho employes of tho du
Pont plant, being sent through tho Post
ofllco Department to their wives nnd rela
tives. POLICE CLOSE IN".
Tim yeggmen entered tho building,
which la nt Main nnd Ponn streets, by
Jimmying open the front nnd back doors.
When they turned on tho lights to go
about tho work of blowing tho safe tho
policemen In ambush "rushed."
Chief of Pollco Harbison, who lead tho
rush to tho front door, called upon tho
nllcgcd yeggman on guard to throw up
ihls hands. Tho man's nnswer wns to lire
point blank nt the officer. Harbison drew
his revolver nnd returned the lire and tho
man fell with a bullet In his arm.
Tho Bhota ringing out In tho clear, crisp
nlr nwoko Pennsgrove nnd caused the
bandits to drop their tools nnd try to es
cape. Cut off by tho rush of the police nt
tho front door, they turned to tho back,
but tho postal Inspectors, led by Inspector
Wynne, blocked their wny. A pitched
battlo ensued.
CITIZENS JOIN" BATTLE.
Bullets whizzed through the doors nnd
Imbedded themselves In the houses ncrnss
ttio, strau TbQpancs of glass' In tho ooal
olllco wcrb 'snnttcrcd by the fire from tho
attacking party. Citizens of Pennsgrove
nnd workmen snatched up the weapon
nenrest at hand and rushed for tho scene
of action.
Ono man was trying to gather up his
tools from In front of tho safe. He turned
to moot the rush or the olllcers and drew
a revolver. Ho was shot down In his
tracks, moro than 100 buckshot entering
his body.
Tho struggle, wns carried' outsido tho
building nnd tho combatants fought on
tho lot on which It stands. Ono man, al
though wounded, managed to escape and
entered a nearby swamp. The police and
armed citizens havo surrounded tho
swamp nnd his capturo is expected before
nightfall.
The men who were captured aro John
JInyo, of St. Paul, Minn.; Frank Mntson,
of Gnlesburg, HI.: Charles Collins, of Bos
ton; Henry Hamilton, who said he lived
In Philadelphia, and Frank Stevens, of
Gnlesburg, HI. Matson, who was guard
ing tho front door, wns shot In tho right
arm. Mayo, who was working at the
safo, has mora than 100 buckshot In his
arms, face nnd body. Collins was shot
through tho left hand. All wero treated
at tho Cooper Hospital In Camden.
-THREE ESCAPE.
Another man, Prank Stntton, of San
Francisco, was wounded, but escaped to
the Hwamps. Three other men, accord
ing to Chief of Police Harbison, escaped
and boarded the 4:47 train on tho Penn
sylvania Railroad as It was pulling out
of the station.
The other poucemen wbo aided In the
capturo wero Pcttlt, Money and Norton,
of the Pennsgrove police. The postal In-
Continued on l'acs Three, Column Four
WINTER'S COLDEST DAY
Mr. Fahrenheit's Invention Gives Cold
Comfort to Chilly, but "Snap"
Is Not for Long
It Is cooler today than It has been any
tlmo this winter. At S o'clock the ther
mometer registered, officially, IS degrees,
the lowest temperature of the present
season.
According to tho Weather Bureau, Phil
adelphia Is on the lower edge of a low
temperature area created by the sweep
of-a cold wave from the Hudson Bay re
gion. The full force of the wav,. Is cen
tred over New England and northwestern
New York State. In Albany the tempera
ture this morning was 2 degrees; In Bos
ton It was 10, and In New York city, 14.
The forecaster, however, does not ex
pect the "snap" to be of long duration.
He predicts It wll be warmer auln to
night. There Is no xkatlng In .Falrmount
Park yet. although on some of the smaller
ponds n the suburbs there la Ice thick
enough for skating.
GALLANT NEAHLY LOST EYE
Catches Fainting Woman, But Oh,
That Hatpin!
A man who rose from bis seat among
(he spectators In Central I'olice. Station
today to catch a young woman who
swooned was struck In the eye by her
hatpin and painfully cut. He almost
lost the sight of his eye. for the pin came
but a fraction of an Inch (win the puplh
The man refused to give his name.
The woman who fainted was Miss Flor
ence Robjnson. The sight of her brother
iu the prisoner's dock, charged with
larceny, was too much for her. Hhe'stood
up, screamed and then fainted. She wus
revived by pr. John W'anamaker, 3d, the
police surgeon at City Hall.
Charles Robinson, her brother, of 233T
Slgel street, was held in J WO for court,
charged with stealing; a revolver from
the American Brlckette Company, 25th
street and Washington avenue.
QUICK
braves sold; haughton to head new club
BOSTON, Jim. 8. Jnmes Gaffney this afternoon sold tho Boston
Nnttonnl baseball team (the Braves) to Arthur O. Wise, of Brookllne,
Mass., of the firm of MUlctt, Rowe & Hagan, and Percy D. Haughton,
the Harvard football coach. Haughton will succeed Gaffney as
president of the Braves.
TODAY'S FINAL ICE HOCKEY SCORE
Chestnut H1U Academy, 1 Germantown High School, O,
ITALY CALLS RESERVES TO COLORS
ROME, Jan. 8. Six classes of field and coast artillery reservists
have been called to the colors. They will begin reporting January 18.
Swarthmorc College Fresh, 23; Swarthmore High, 21. Flmu.
TO REIMOVE GARY FROM STEEL BOARD, RUMOR
NEW YORK, Jan. 8. A battle to unseat Judgo E. II. Gary as directing
licntl of tho United States Steel Corporation Is In Its preliminary stages, accord
ing' to rumors current In Wnll street todny. Henry C. Frlck, tho Pittsburgh
steel magnate, who la a director of tho Steel Corporation nnd Is reported to
hold tho votes of many other directors, Is reported to bo a probablo candldato
for chairman of tho Steel Corporation.
MORE STEEL COMPANIES ADVANCE WAGES
NEW YORK, .Inn. 8. Announcement has been mado by tho Colorado Fuel
nnd Iron Company thnt tho wnges of employes will bo advanced to tho same
basis us the United States Steel Corporation.
SHARON", Pn., .Inn. 8. Tho Knox Pressed and Welded Steel Company has
posted a notice nt Its plant here announcing nn Increase In wages and tho
adoption of n bonus plnn for Its employes.
PITTSBURGH, .Inn. 8. The employes of tho Fannio and Ella furnaces--ai i
West Middlesex have been notified of an increase In wages of 10 per cont.,"s
effective Jnnunry 1.
YUAN SAID TO HAVE SUFFERED STROKE OF APOPLEXY
TOKIO. Jnn. 8. Yunn Shl-kal. who recentlv accented tho throno of China.
has suffered a stroke of apoplexy nnd
unconfirmed reports received hero today.
VOORUEES DOING WELL, PHYSICIAN REPORTS
ROCHESTER, Minn., Jnn. 8. Theodore Voorhccs, president of tho Head
ing Rullwity, Is doing "as well ns could be expected," wns tho only statement
Dr. William Mayo, his physician, would Issuo todny. Tho railroad man under
went nn operation January 4.
MARYLAND MAY SELL NORTHERN CENTRAL STOCK
It hna been proposed by it member of the Maryland State Tax Commission
Hint the Stute's mortgage on tho properties of the Northern Central Hallway
bo sold for $3,000,000 cash, tho proceeds to bo used In mnklng up tho deficit
In unpaid Stntc appropriations and for tho retirement of two Maryland Stato
bond Issues.
The condition of tho Btnto's finances hnu caused much dfscusslon as to a
disposition of this asset recently.
FIRE DRIVES SISTERS AND CHILDREN FROM CONVENT'
MARLUORO, Mass., Jnn. 8. One hundred nnd twenty-five children and 41
sisters wero forced to flee a flro today In tlio St. Anne's Convent for Girls here.
Within a few minutes nfter the' lire gong hml sounded, because of tho herolo
worlc of the sisters nnd the fact that tho children had been thoroughly drilled,
the building was emptied. The sisters at tho risk of their lives remained
In the building until every child had been saved. The sisters then saved the
blessed sacrament nnd other sacred things In the school.
FORD PARTY ARRIVES IN HOLLAND
AMSTERDAM, Jan. 8. The Ford peace party arrived In Holland from
Copenhagen todny by special train through Germany. They received most
conslderato treatment whllo traveling across German soil.
GERMAN AGENTS PLY ABYSSINIANS WITH GOLD
ROMR, Jan. 8. Germnn ngeuts, plentifully supplied with gold, ore work
ing to bring Abyssinia Into the great world war, and Count Colli dl Fells
zano, the Italian Minister nt Adls Abebn, has informed the Foreign Olllco that
precautionary measures should bo tnken.
Abyssinia on threo sides Is bordered by British colonies, and strong Gor-j.
man influenco Is being exerted to bring nbout an uprising of the Mohammedan
population against the British.
There has even been a strong pro-German propaganda introduced at the
Abyssinian court.
GRAND JURIES TO PROBE MUNITION PLOTS
WASHINGTON, Jan. 8. Grand Jury Investigations In soveral cities Into
conspiracies of foreign agents to destroy munition plants and otherwise Inter
fere with tile furnishing of supplies to the Allies nre to be made during tho
next two or three months, according to Department of Justice otllclals todayv
Tho department la withholding details of Its movements along this line, stl
ob not to give notice to conspirators In localities which are to be affected.
GERMAN GUNS REPLACE SHORTAGE OF MEN
PARIS, Jan, 8. Tha Germans have already begun to toplace their shortage
of men with an increased number of weapons, says La Llberte. According to
this report a few of the men aro armed with deadly, non-recoiling automatic
rifles capable of firing 10 shots before they aro recharged. Machine guns con
cealed in Invisible concrete shelters replace an entire company.
DUAL. MONARCHY HEADS IN CONFERENCE
LONDON, Jan, 8, A Reuter dispatch from Amsterdam states that at a jojnt
conference In Vienna, 'presided over by Baron Burlan, the Austro-Hungarlaa
Foreign Minister, It Is understood the economical and financial position of the
Dual Monarchy was discussed. Thoso attending the conference Included Count
Kurl von Stuergkh, the Austrian Premier; Count Stephan Tisza, the Hungarian
Premier; General von Krobatin, the War Minister, and Finance Minister voai
Ifoerber.
ARABS IN BERLIN DENOUNCE FRENCH RULE
H10HL1M. Jun. 8.-A frrpnt Anih
Tunis and Algeria was held hi Berlin yesterday. Sheik Saleh, a descendant ot,t
Mahomet, from Tunis, In an eloquent speech denounced French rule in northern
Africa and declared that now tho moment hud'eomo for the races there to
tak for justice and the right to live their own Uvea in an Independent state. Jttw '
sentiments wero enthusiastically approved by the meeting.
CHINESE REBELS LOOT CUSTOM HOUSE
CANTON, China, Jan. 8. One hundred armed men attacked and looted the
Chinese Custom House, on tho boundary
ers posted, proclamations describing themselves as rebels. Further trouble i
expected hero at any time, as it Is believed that the rebels havo corrupted tht
Government troops.
GENERAL BINGHAM MAY BE N. Yf PRISON HEAD
ALBANY, N. Y., Jan. 8. General Theodore 4. Bingham, fprmer Colics Cmp
nilssloner of New York, can be John B. Riley's successor as State, SUperia,iliir
of Prisons. It Is up to General Bingham, tq say whether be wilt serve. He Kt
undecided. Ho wants to remain a private citizen and follow Ills. prpfeJouVn; s!
engineering, and he loathes "mixing up In politics again," as he describe jfc
But Governor Whitman has assured the General that there wllj not be 49
politics In the Prison Department If he
NEWS
Is In a serious condition, according to II
(
flpmniiutnitlnn fnr Mm Tmlpnmiripnort fit w A
of Kowloon, It Is learned. The maraud
beads it.
Way on Page &
3
it I
l
4
n
Nl
. Ji
K i - '- '
i a
