"JAPAN AND THE NEXT WAR."
Crushlngdefeat by the U. S. pictured as a
plea for preparedness. The story that
Is rousing Japan.
IN THE SUN TO-MORROW.
THE WEATHER FORECA!
Fair to-day; fair and slightly
to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 301J
Detailed weather, mail ntui marine rcpor
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 130.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1916. copVrlpht. IMS, b the Sun Printing and PubHtMnp A,cMlon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
STRIKERS FIRE
AN OHIO CITY; 3
KILLED, 16 HURT
3Ioh. Fired On by Guards,
Drives Off Tolicc, Fire
men nnd Sheriffs.
TROOPS GO TO SCENE;
SALOONS ARE LOOTED
500 Pounds of Dynamite
Stolen to "Blow Up
the Town."
SCORES ARE INJURED
IN THE WILD RIOTING
East Youngstown Workers,
Frantic With Liquor,
Marching Streets.
TorsfiSTOWN, Ohio. Jnn. 8 (Saturday.
J A. M.). A mob of strikers from the
plant of the Youngstown Sheet anil
Tube Company at Hast Youngstown
took possession of the town last night
after a battle with the company's nrl
YMe police force In which, some re
ports say. eight persons were killed.
At least sixteen persons were Injured.
some fatally.
In retaliation for shooting by com
pany guards the strikers set tire to
many buildings. The loss Is already
1500,000 and the flro U atl'.l burning,
The strikers, originally numbering
about 1.200 men. but swollen by friends
to a crowd of fully 3,000, set fire to the
busings section of the town, "faulted I
firemen who tried to fight the flames,
(.,mntrt to hum the comnunv's
. , ,. , .,
pUnt. looted many shops, raided the
eighteen saloons In that section of
.... ,,. ,, ,
town and took full-control of the
streets. I
. . . . , ,. I
At U ociock me arunnen nwr,
began a march to loungstown anu a ;
hundred armed deputies are reudy to
five battle.
The report that eight of their num
ber had been killed by the company's
private police force could not be con
firmed at midnight by the police, after
a search which they declared to be
thorough, reporting that they could
find only three bodies.
The local authorities were terrified
oat of action. The police and deputy
hriffs refused to make any real nt
umpt tu handle the situation.
Mllltln Ordered Out.
Gov. Willis was notified early In the
evening of what was transpiring and
bf ordered five companies of mllltla
1mm Cleveland, Canton, Columbus and
Al'.lance to East Youngstown.
At 11:30 none of the troops had ar
rived, but It was said that some of
the guardsmen would be here early
to-day. Companies C and I of the
Fifth Regiment, 'Ohio National Guard,
ate said to be on their way nnd three
companies of the Eighth Regiment,
Ohio National Guard, are bringing ma
chine guns.
At 11 o'clock the mob, In possession
of lh complete stocks of eighteen sa
loons, were sweeping the streets. In
their possession was 500 pounds of dyna
mite obtained when they broke Into the
Morehouse of a local contractor. With
this they planned, leaders said, "to blow
Uast Voungstown to hell and gone." 1
I.trlier In the evening firemen from
nearby towns had'been driven off with
hotter uf sticks and stones, their hose
had been cut until the Youngstown fire
men refused flmly to do their work.
Suloons Arr I. noted.
Thf wildest scenes were being enacted
b'f'ii th arrival of Hie mllltla. The
fl' jr and windows of the saloons liad
been tiroken : bottleH of whiskey and gin
hail been taken out, their tops knocked
"ff and passed around from mouth to
mouth.
The riots followed on tlie heels of the
nnounremcnt of the Youngs-.ovvn Sheet
s il Tube Company thut beginning Im
ir"dlatey the rate ol pay for common
tatjr w.ij advanced from 18 '4 to 'il cents
11 hour, and the rate for skilled labor
it raited to correspond with the wages
('"(il l,y the United Slates Steel Cor
poration n Its recent announcement,
11... strikers are practically all Poles,
l.lt manlans and Herblans. They gath
er!. I m the saloons of East Youngstown
nirrounriing the plant, early yesterday
morinng u discuss the raise.
They thought It Insufficient, and as
th" day wore on their rage against the
omi.aiiy Increased In direct proportion
to the drinks they consumed. Frequent
tin -its were heard In the streets they
would "get" the company, "get" the
workmen who returned to the plant to
fUv "Kti" the authorities and any one
tis who interfered with them.
Just before 0 o'clock most of them
'''' .l out of the saloons and down to
1 i entrance to the company's plant on
Hriwd street. They gathered across the
'"ti from the entrunre; near by stood
cveral hundred women and children,
there In the expectation of seeing the
" Hem make good their threats.
At the entrance stood twenty-five
rneil private policemen, In chargo of
.! Welti, Curses and threats were
'uileil ut Woltz, at the company, at the
P v.n policemen.
Tnen ,i lock rose from the centre of
' " not) and fell near the group of
t iron At the same tme half a doien
01 tn Mrlkers. armed with firebrands,
Jiurle.j thou at the nearest company
C'onKii'.Hd on Fourth I'ttgc.
New Haven Jury Locked Up
After 7 Hours 55 Minutes
One Rumor Says the Vote
Stands Ten to Two for
Acquittal.
ALL DEFENDANTS
RUT TWO IN COURT
After seven hours and flftv-flve min
utes of deliberation the jury In the case
of the eleven former directors of the
New Haven railroad charged with con
spiring to monopolize New Kngland's
transportation facilities wns locked up
for the night. The Jurors had been con
tinuously In the Jury room arguing over
the verdict since 1 :30 o'clock yesterday i
afternoon, save for two hours and fifteen I
minutes 'iVi out for luncheon and J
dinner. I
Although r ord ss to the situation
could cotne tiie jury room, It was I
apparent that the entire time had been 1
taken up by serious argument and that
there are or were radical differences
among the twelve men.
There weie rumotn a plenty. It was
said that the Jury wns standing ten to
two for acquittal, but that the two men
were most determined to convict some
of the defendants at least.
A man passing In ttie hall outside
the Jury room shortly after II o'clock
heard a cheer, which was taken to mean
thnt some one hud been won over to
one side or the other. The names of
Jurors were mentioned, but absolutely
without authority.
Only Two Absent.
Except for William Rockefeller, who
Is 111 at home, and Kdward D. Itohblns,
who after a day In couit was compelled
to remain at his hotel In the evening, the.
eleven defendants remained until Clerk
Westervelt announced that the court
would convene at 10 o'clock thin morning
and In the meantime the Jury would go
to the Hotel Knickerbocker for the night.
Charles K. Mrvuker. the Ansonla manu
facturer ; D. Newton liarney of Farming
ton, Conn, i Hobert W. Taft, cotton man
ufacturer of Providence: James S. Hem
ingway, New lluven banker: Lewis Cass
iA'dyard, lawyer: Charles M. Pratt, capi
talist: Judge A. Helton Itobertson, Kred-
..ml, t. tln,.ta.al. V. if II iv.n ...-.MM-
ractllrer'. ,,,liry K', MclLtrg. banker and
railroad man all these wandered about
fjj,0"1''
Charles M. Mellen came down also 10
hear the verdict In the case. In which he
had been chief witness for noiii rides.
iJlwJcr8 and friends of the defendants
tilled the room fall ly full.
After Judtfe Hunt's charge It had been
,ll0UtIlt ,.,at t,e Jury could not be long
In returning a verdict of ncqultlnl, for
In the chame. which was eminently fair,
nU thc 5fnlia,onal features pertaining to
40 CENT GASOLENE !
NEAR; OIL FAMINE!
Toxins - Oklahoma Operator
Says Wolls Have Slumped
Nearly 30 Pop font.
DaIXas. Tew, Jan. 7. M. N. Halter,
nrnmlhaiii Tu v n u.OUl.'i hotna oil olerator
and chairman of the Dallas Park Doard. 1 p.,nsonby Kumiss, the West Indian mer-, tf" !V"' a" ""t vl"'n''V l '" The mere fait that ;;'"ny ha, seen
. . ,,i .... . 'prison department office upon their re- , nt to take this step on her own inula-
has ieturne.1 from Oklahoma alarmed chant prince, developed yesterday when active cases weiv probably Included i the. following so closely on the as
over the decreased oil pioductlon. He William Ponsonby I'urnlss I'd, r.S years also. surances given by Austria In her reply
n... .'l ... Jfl rents II ir.'llllin In ' ntil Ijlcen lntf tlie Tnmlu ,mlle . 11. tile AllCOlM Jlote, i.t regarded b-
the near future nnd oil by-products IB to
50 per cent, higher tnan in any nine m
the history of the Cnlted States.
"In other words," tne unuea Mines,
he said, "and especially Texas and the
Southwest, faces an oil lamiue. is nui
coming. It is already Here.
Itaker stated that oil wells In Okla
noma and Texas have slumped In pro
ductlon from 35 to 50 per cent.
NO PLOT IN BOOST.
AUoriir-firnerl Ss lie l Prose-
ontliiK .Vo One.
Washington. Jan. 7. Attorney-General
Gregory to-day made reply to the
resolution offered by Representative
Steenerson of Minnesota early In the
week asking for Information as to
whether the Department of Justice had
taken any steps against combinations
utitx.rwtfl(1 IO be resnonslble for the recent
advance In the price of gasolene. The
resolution was sent to tho Department of
i...ti... hv the House Committee on the
Judiciary, to which the Attorney-General
made response as ioiiows:
"No prosecutions have been Instituted
t,.. .1,. Ciivernment based on the Increase
on the price of petroleum and Its prod-
ucts, especially gasolene, iur me .cru.,
that no evidence has been developed yet
which would Justify a charge that the
Increase Is due to any action In vlolutlon
of Federal law.
"It 11 the duty oi me unuen nui.cn
District Attorneys and investigators
throughout the country to scrutlnlr.o
closely nil Increases In the prices of
staple commodities aim . irii'
promptly any evidence tending to show
that such increases wrie ......
by agreement or combination,
eri.iu .intv bus been particularly Im
pressed on them slneo the beginning of
the European war. which has made It
ta.er to find pretexts for Increasing
price s.
mv' .n.cinl Investigation of the In
crease In the price of gnsolene has been
organlied by the Department of Justice
for the reason w.v ...o r,...
Commission, with Ita broad Inquisitorial
powers especially designed for tho pur
pose, had already begun under resolu
tions of the Senate a comprehensive In
vestigation Into conditions In the nil
'""Arrangements accordingly were made
..,!. r u-hlch communications on the sub-
Jects addressed to the Department of
Justice should bo referred lo the com
mission, which will of course at once
advise the Department of Justice of uny
evidence developed tending to show any
r,mi,ni or combination to Increase
prices It Is needless to Bay that any
surh evidence will receive the prompt
ottentlon ot tne ueparimrm.
ii..i.n.lll sirrtlra Houth "Augusta Hoe.lsl
southern Hallway. Ieve l'nn. matlmi 1:01
1 M. .Ully fr Aiken and Augusta. Draw.
In'a-.room. ronipartment and eilnn Pull.
m"ns; illnltlf car. N. T. Ofnce, :t( 5th Ave.
4iV, - .- .
TRIAL COST $775,000
AND LASTED 55 DAYS
Duration of trial, from October IS,
1.", to and Including January 0,
1316, r5 court days.
Days.
.1
1
3S
33
3,
Hi
Kxomttiallon of jurors
Mr. Halts' opening
Testimony for tlovernmcnt.
Testimony of Mr. Mellen. . . .
Argument on motion to dis
miss (defence)
Argument In opposition to
dismiss (Government).. ..
Testimony for defence
Government summing up. .. .
Defence summing up
Witnesses eworn for Gov
ernment Witnesses sworn for de
fence I'xhlhlls marked for Gov
ernment i:hlblts marked for de
fence 37
l.s&t
4ft
Presiding Jtidg. Willlnm M. Hunt.
Government Counsel Special As
sistant Attorneys-General R. U natts,
Frank M. Sw acker and James W.
Osborne and Awltant ttnlled States
Attorney Robert P. Stephenson.
Number words stenographic
record I.IGI.OhO
Cot of i coord $Sfi.O00
Cost of trial t" Government..200,00rt
Cost to defence 1.173,000
Total cost.,
i.oou
leclslntlve corruntlon nlleged In other
places, all the looting and other things
had been cast out
The defendants had been highly elated
at first, believing deliverance would
cotne eoixi. hut when at f:20 o'clock the
Inrv ni.to.il for certain documents they
were not so sure. The men hail asKed .
for agreements which went bark to the
beginning of the alleged conspiracy. In
dlrntlng that a tight was on.
speculation. This sicw broader as the The Governor. It Is belleed. Is not with International la,
hours went on. I willing to have his secretary. William A. Cotmt von Ilernstorff. the German
The Jury Is composed of the following: Orr. leave him for even a sh. rt time as , Anliias.a,lr, delivered to-day to Secre
' Stephen D. Hlrschman. real estate, temporary Superlntendu.it of I rWons. .,.ne , memorandum from Her-
300 West 100th street: Max H.irtman. , It Is Helped that the Governor intends' " L.nslng a me "or""""" "7"rm.ln
commission agent. Hotel Welllnstnn ; 1 to have a man nil lead) If possible to , lln containing the pledges of the German
tlbert K. Weldon. draughtsman, 3068
IMInbildge avenue; Thomas N. Pell, sc-retarj-,
3t Pine street ; Frank S.
Douglass, contractor, lOSu Nelson ave
nue, Tbo Rronx : Fred C. Honny, secre
tary International Flax Fibre Company;
James II. Carton. Horse Kxchange man
nger. 123 West Ninety-sixth street: Joel
Kraus, real estate. 4 44 Centiul Pari;
Wen : Peter Wagner, builder. 23tf West
121st street: O. A. Flint, electrical en
gineer, 42 Fordhnm road, Westchester:
Henry C, Dater. real estate, 2S West
137th street: Andrew L. Grace, In
spector. New York Kdlson Cornpuny, 303
West llfith street.
Judxr Hunt's I'tnrue.
Judge Hunt began his charge to the
Jury at 10:30 o'clock. Itefore betnnlnr,
i.u i.iw.i-.i iii nrui iioiii uie juuKrs
t'oiilfiiueil on Fifth I'ttpr
RICH FATHER INSANE
SAYS DR. FDRNISS
whether he would resign or remain and
n.Kht t out with the Governor, but In-
' t limited that hi" letter did not con
.MOOIS HlS Parent l irst Pline tain a resignation Many of his friends
in Seven Years ami Has
Him Arrested.
l urther litigation In connection with
i.a itnwt, Autt.. t.tt i ik? it,, wltllnm
court on a charge of Insanity by his
rjr. Clinton Challet Kumiss of t20
Wi-Bt llfith street.
j hitler Kumiss, who lives at 7 West
, i.;Kiith street on the Income derived
reouesled a policeman to arrest his par -
- ... tl
rnv ub iiiruiaiij uiiruuiiu.
The liollcemun lefused to make the
arr.t and the son then obtained a war -
rant from Magistrate Harris, which De-
tectlve Ilotchford Immediately executed.
On the way to court the physician tol.l
Ilntchford that In the even of the death
of an mint, Grace Livingston Kurnlss,
..... I.-- i.i.. ...... .1.1 ......
win nriiri, ion ioiuci r...ui., v,inc iinu
her portion of the estate, which was also
iinn.nno. a nr. Kurnlss ould nltl.
mately become the beneficiary of the
. i ... .nrn.k.i ii.a .i.t.nti... I..
icnuiit-n, iiiiiiiniii iv ... ...I...... ..
desired for the sake of his three children
i i. ..-.A...,in.i .. l,Ai.-.. hul
grandfather was mentally competent to
, ,,iu tl.A fiirwl.
......................
The younger Kumiss's nftl.lavlt al -
leges that his father "Is acting In a
strange manner, talks Incoherently and
t I... l...ln,.H,.n. at.,. nt
Ilttn IIUIIULIIIU iiwnn iii.iv jicut'ic mo in
tempting to do Injury to him, and la
dangerous to be at large and Is Insane."
Ilefore William Kurnlss was arraigned
bis son left tho court room, explaining
that he would return after ronaultliig
his attorney. He did not reappear and
when u telephone Inquiry wns sent to his
ofllce it wns said there that he had set
out for Maine,
Magistrate Harris adjourned the
heirlng until Monday, when he will de
cide whether to tommlt Kurnlss to
nellevue for observation. The post
ponement was granted at the request
of n representative of Itandntpli Per
kins, an attorney of 15 Kxchtinge Place.
Jersey City, trustee of Kumiss's fund.
Mr. Kurnlss was paroled until then.
The Kurnlss estate whs at one time
estimated to be 140,000,000. Tho filing
of a referee's report In February. 1915,
revealed that It had dwindled to less
than 11.000,000. William Ponsonby
Kurnlss 2d wns divorced from Ids first
wife. Ills second wife, a former Sal
vation Army lass, obtained a separation
after stating that she had failed In her
effort to reform hnr husband, her
avowed purioae In marrying him.
COLORADO FUEL WAGES UP.
ItocUrfrllrr Concern Adopts Uteri
Corporation Hauls.
Dknvkh, Jan, 7. President Welborn
of the Colorado Iron und Kuel Company
announced in-day thnt the company will
advance tho waiges of Its steel workers
to the same figure paid by the United
Slates Steel Corporation,
Tlie company employs several thousand
men.
I.K.VVK.NHW VOnK. SMI P. M.
Breakfaat at Vewrt laa, Ctmdtn, 8, C 41v.
from a trust fund of 1100,000 from his ussinino, .inn, .. xs Antonio ronton, , f , Uovernment. JVM I SIT 111. MCailK Ol .Ml M1IIOS
I grandfather's estate, was arrested after tne nrst slayer to ne put to ueatn at Wiih the recelnt of the C.erman mem- , ,.
the son had seen his father for the first Sing Sing under the new warden. George ... ' . ,"..1 ,' ,hls Government Al'O ( ailed to llCl llII.
' time In seven years. The meeting took ' W. Klrchwey. was being taken from his . ' Matlsfactory undersfandlng .
'place in a cafe at 3S llecKninn street. I ceii to whik io me eieciric riiair eari) i - ... lKtl. (jcrmany und Austria on all .Hlltll'lll llfitrs.
Dr. Furnlss went outside and excitedly to-day a ronvict tried to escape and ..... ..,, rine nuestion be-
GEN. BINGHAM MAY
GET RILEY'S PLACE
Ex-Police Commissioner Called
to Albany, Confers With
Whitman.
RII.EY INTIMATES FIGHT
Semis Reply to Request for
His Resignation Kirch
woy in Alliany.
Albant, J.m 7. Gen. Theodore A.
Uingham, ex-Police Commissioner of
New York, can bo Superintendent of
Prisons If he wishes It and If Supt. Riley
complies with Gov. Whitman's request
to reslan Immediately or Is remoed.
This was declared by persons close to I
the situation to-night after Gen. lllng
liUm had hud a conference with Mr.
Whitman.
The Governor would not discuss the
I Riley case ai-day. He refused to say
I whether he would see the Superinten
dent If n conference were ivquned or to
talk of a poslble successor to Judge
Itllev before there w-as a acmcy to be,
tilled.
Gen. Uingham came to me eapirai lair
In the nftuniun and went directly to the
Hxecuthe Chamber. The Governor took
him at once into the private olllce and
,i lung conference ensued. It was learned
that the Governor had sent for the ex
Conmilss.oncr to offer to him the sujier
intendency of the prisons if Supt. R.ley
would resign Iniinediutely. Just before'
tun conference the Governor was asked
If lie li.i.l niivthliiu to with reference
to tlu- presenre ol ,eii. ii:ugiiani in uie
i:xecutte Chamber ami ills only repiy
was .
"Nothing, except thut I am ery glad
step in wren fupi. uney ie.nr. Government.
Gen. Hlnghain Is believed by the Gov-1 .. oluntarlly assures the
emor to be a man well fitted for head of German) omiiiani) u
the prisons and one who would be it . I'nlted States that any submarine com
liopular 'appointee generally throughout , ,:imier who falls to obey these orders
the State, lie lias nan expenence
handling the New York police force and
In big Government engineering work.
After the conference Gen. Uingham
would sa) nothing as to his talk.
"Purely a personal matter," he In-
George W. Klrchwey. acting warden t Hired Secretary Lansing that bis Gov
of Sing Sing, came to Albany during the rJiinent Ind no Information in regard
day to talk over the situation with the .nkine ,,f the Urltlsh liner
ICanX'X:Ver,U. with United States Consul Mc
Cuittol. Mr Orr, tin limTiior' ecre- .Wely on ImanI, It Ik upvrent that the
1 tarv ntnrtptl for Ww York late In the ' ia reuultf-fl
, i' ' '
i,,,, tt,.j. nrrlved In Albany at noon
n,t passed the rest of tlie nay, ecepi
for fre.iiient Intel ruptions. dictating a '
long letter to the Governor. He first
sent a short note to Mr. Whitman ac
knowledglng the receipt of the request
for his resignation and then set to work
to prepare a long statement He refused
to Intimate what v.a m tint statement,
which was wnt to the Gowrnor to
night. .Wither would Mr Whitman tell
what ws In the statement,
i Judite Itllev refused also to say
..re urging that course on him.
It Is believed that Supt. Itlley's state.
ment to the C,oernor went fully Into
the whole prison situation. Including a
complete outline of the transfer of pris
oners from Sing Sing to Dannetiiora.
which Is the basis of the Governor's
; rentiest for the resignation, C
ivmnw
T.oriln of .ill the iirlsnners ordered
edtrana.
, BREAK RESPITES SLA YER
I After tln JGiik Prisoner la CnoKht
' delayed the execution a half hour. The
I milnrlt u'fis .Tnn.es Hill n ",'e.itra! nrtlce"
...... - ,
hand, who Is serving ten years for as -
i ault.
Dean Klrchwey was not nt the prison.
I-Ike T. M. Osbotne he Is opposed to
capital punishment. Spencer Miller. Mr.
Klrchwey's secretary, and Principal
Keeper Kred Dorner were left to super-
ele 111, evec.ltlon.
....
Ponton, who stabbed to death Miss
i Ilessle Kromer, a school teacher. In
Schenectady, was resigned to his fate.
' .tust as Dorner and ttie four minnls M
. --- - -;- - -
opened ms ceil io start tne .loath march
Hnmebnilv fcrave Ibe alarni .if Ilie ..Kcine.
j The five left the condemned man's cell
io am in tne rum ii re.
.... , .
i . was enpunen on uie roor. nn.i
the .xiutuni vveirnre League member who
' was responsinie ror me alarm was
l llpllri II v I'll II IT T. I nil ll 1 1 il. I IID nilnr linil
licnruiy congraiuiuten. .ine latter Had
...I.... I. n.a t H .
neen sinics. oy ,,, ..nu was threatened " , , leH(. that n
"',.h..0.,,.", .,?:iV,r;L. " T yMtorTmrM lll bo reached
refused to Join In the attempted escape.
When Hill was locked up Ponton was
led to the death chair and paid the
penalty for his crime,
SEE OSBORNE CASE FAIL.
Friends nf Wnrden Relieve llir
"Plot" Is CriimlilliiK,
Thomas Mott Osborne's frleu.lH saw
signs yesterday which they ivinstrutd as
Indicating that what they call the plot
against the warden Is crumbling. They
believe that several of the witnesses
who have made It possible, for District
Attorney Weeks of Westchester county
to bring on Indictment against the for
mer warden have become frightened und
desire to rucniit, now that Supt. Illley
has been asked to resign,
Storekeeper Kelly, who aligned him
self with the autl-Oshorne forcen ufter
he was dlsehinged from Slug Sing, at
tempted to got a word with Mr. Osborne
as the latter rut. red the Jlotel rtelmorit
yesterday, but tho Indicted warden
turned lilm awny.
Mr. osimrne hail no statement to
make about I tin prison situation or Ills
own case. He was slightly stricken with
the grip and hud to cancel a sjieaklnvr
engagement Ik had made for White
Plains last night, The only news h
would iwitiiiiiiice wns that he hnd Just
heard he ihnd another grandchild, Ida
eldest son, David M, nslsnne of Hos
ton, having become the father of a
daughter.
HKABOAHIt ri.ORII., LTD., 3:1(1 p. M,
qulrkeit, linn l KlorIJa train via ahnrtrat
line. Utatuard Air Line It)'., lilt UroaUway,
A4V.
KAISER'S U BOAT RULES IN
MEDITERRANEAN FORECAST
LUSITANIA SETTLEMENT
Germany Yields on All
Points in the Inland
Sea.
FORESTALLS ACTION
IN THE PERSIA CASE'
Disavowal. Reparation and
Punishment in New
Note.
3I EDITER R ANEAN NOT
IN ZONE OF REPRISAL
American Safety on Enemy
Ships Guaranteed Under
Law of Nations.
Wash imiton. Jnn. 7 Germany, on her
own Ijiltlatlve. has given formal assur
ances to the United States that her sub
marine activities In the Mediterranean
will be conducted strictly In accordance
...., ,,. ui,ied : also that the German
Government will make reparation "for
damage caused by death or Injuries to
Amet lean citizens."
While the German Ambassador as-
i-rnimi i.r-u, -.v. -
from that ewe,
In fact, the Geiinnn Goirninent seem
,,, ,ul.,.,.uP u as a possibility that a
" '" . . , livl4 ... .,,
German submarine ma hae sent the
Persia to tl'.e ooiiuni. wi " "
memorandum:
All ca.e of drstiuctluti of enemy
meiehanl ships In th" Medltertanean
In which Gei-miui submarine are con
reined are made the siibjtct of otllclal
Investigation, nnd besides submitted
to legular pilze eourt preceding.
In so far ns American Interest!! ate
conienisd the Government will coin
miui.cute the result to the American
Government. Thus uKo In the Persia
cne if the clicutiiHtunces should call
tor It.
Decreases tlie Tension.
The pi mentation of the German in tno-
""""
r.induin seived to llgiuen somen ihi
...,,.., i lu.t has exUteJ In oltldal ell-
vie. since the elnUlng of the Persia.
""Xn'bvrnw'u"
i jtetinn 11V .itTUiaiiy IS lrtirii
i further evidence of the desire on tl
, iart of the Central Powers to avoid a
I break wltn tne umte.i nun, .mo. . w
...... ,v,ri..hter. but American
i ' . . ,. . . .
. ..rti-1,.1. ..-ive tieell OlSappolllieu si, null.
1 - - .., ,,,, m,... refn.ln fmm mak-,
i ina iiredictlons
I ". thc panl(. 'time that Count von Hern -
I ff Iircentw the memorandum on the
, j,"..V ,, , activities In the Medltur-
u " .' rl ' . i' V, ! ., C.tv l.m.
' . Bettlemem of the l.usltanla ouae.
I Bl"s .ii.in..
The Ull tCd States anil ..eri.iaii) um
' : ,lt a deadlock on the form of the
... n.iin.. ,i,. 1,....
' " ' , , 8llk nrrM the war
without giving warning and safe -
1 ,nn
. ,, ,hc lives of passengers and
I t,ia..ioh " .. ...,
crew In Itself constitute,! u . disavowal.
und the i linen Mates .i.ouiiir um m..
. . . n i i.
nil uosoiilie i. p., ,i in " m.
.- ,,.,,. ,rs0ns clo.e to the
Embassy the new proposals sub-
,, .., .... ucrmany have brought the Is-
" "' .. ,il...iient. and the nredlc
' - ' ... ... II.
after one or two more conferences be
tween the Ambassador ana secretary
Lansing.
C.rrnmio's Step Forward.
. . . .
In the memorandum which tne German
AmU ssador has Just delivered to the!
Stat., Department Germany goes further
In the way of giving assurances innii in
all)' previous conn, luintuuun. cur
..nl . .Iah U
promises llntly to ooserve every urn. ui
international law In her submarine
operations In the Mediterranean and de
Clares that instructions to that effect
were given to tier suumurine coin
manders. In her previous nssurtinces affecting
the so-called war zone Germany prom
ised merely that liners would not be sunk
i1h.llw nassengers tithe Med
ing the I've or passongers. ui t t .vieoi-
without warning and witnout safeguard
terninean Germany pledges herelf not
to sink freight ns well ns passenger ves
tals until after the crews nnd others
havo been put in places or safety,
'I? mI!Ll'l'" '.r?.:. "
ilie ailim-iv i.mv.1 wtiiiiu,,, ,.,
out Is that In the etise of submarine
operations in the war zone she hns been
oblleed to ndopt methods of reprisal,
whereoa In the Mediterranean no such
condltlona exist. The United States
never ha accepted the Oermnn conten -
tlon that submarine operntlona In the
noi..r of reorlsals exemutcd her from
the obligations of International law and
this Government still Insists thnt Ger -
many has no right to sink freight vessels
without warning and wlthnut sufeguUrd -
Ing the Uvea of passengers and crew.
The presenting of the memorandum
on submarine warfaie In the Medlterra-
nean Is warded by diplomats as a
clever move. In taklnf this action Qer
I as far as iiossiiun in saniio m; ... ,
GERMAN RULES FOR WAR
IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
Washington', Jan. 7, The Grrmun Ambassador left nt the Department
of State to-day under Instructions from his Government the following
communication;
1. German submarines In the Mediterranean hnd from the begin
ning orders to conduct crulsor warfare against enemy merchant vessels
only In accordance with general principles of International law, und In
particular measures of reprisal, ns applied In the war zone around tho
British Isles, were to be excluded.
2. German submarines rn thereforo permitted to destroy enemy
merclinnt vessels In the Mediterranean thnt Is, passenger ns well as
freight ships a far ns they do not try to escapo or offer resistance
only nfter possengem nnd crews have been acootxlej safety.
3. All cases of destruction of enemy merchant ships In the .Medltei
ranenn In which German submarines are concerned arc made, the sub
ject of ofticlal Investigation nnd besides submitted to regular prize court
proceedings, in so far as American interests nre concerned, the German
Government will communicate the result to the Amcrli'nir Government.
Thus also In the Persia cuse if the circumstances should call for It. If
commanders of German submarines should not havo obeyed tho orders
given to them they will bo punished; furthermore, the German Govern
ment will muko reparation for damage caused by death of or Injury to
American citizens.
many has forestalled any move that the
L' til ted states may have had In mind In
the way of addressing an Identical note
to the Central Powers calling for mote
satisfactory assurances on the methods
of submarine warfare.
Germany will now have the advantage
of having come forward with assur
ances as regards the liner Perla In
advance. If the fact should be estab
lished that a German submarine sank
the Persia Germany would also be ill
the position of having disavowed the
act In advance and of having promised
to punish the submarine commander.
Proof I'nllrely I.at'kliiK.
As a matter of fact. It looks more and
more on each sucieedlng day as If the
I'nlted States never would be able to
prove thnt a submarine sank the Persia.
The State Department heard to-day from
the Consuls at Cairo, Malta and Mar
seilles that they had no evidence from
passengers to establish the fact that the
Persia was sent to the bottom by a
submarine. The American Consul at
Alexandrt'i has also sent all the aftld.l
vlts he was able to get and none of
them contains sufficient evidence on
which to build a case.
Ambassador I'enfleld ,t Vienna also
rejsirted to-day that the Austrian Ad
miralty hnd Informed him that It had
no Information In regard to the sinking
of the Petals. HfTorts of the United
Stites to ohtnln evidence at London has
nlso failed.
The only scintilla of evidence that the
Htnte Department ha been able to oh-
tain Is the statement of the second ofllcer
J " I ersia that he saw what he
thought was the wake of a torpedo.
,,.,, Department officials say that this
nwiin.iriii. u miupiKrien. in not oe
suruclent to estnhlUli a case
Slate Department authorities likened
the Persia case 'n Its present status to
the Hesperlin case. In thnt affair Ger
many denied that an) of hei submarines
had torpedoed the vessel, and England
declared that It was not n mine. The
I'nlted States never acted on the case.
The President ami his Cabinet con
sidered the submarine situation at to
day's meeting, but they crime to no con
clusion. It wns learned nfterwaid that
the conduct of this Government for the
present will depend entirely on facts
In the rase of the Persia. If the State De
partment Is unable to establish that a
torpedo sank the Persia it Is probable
.in. t .... u
".
.. Secretaiy Lansing succeeds In get-
"K evi.tei.ee proving that the Persia
GERMANS SAID TO FEAR
GROWN PRINCE'S RULE
Paris, Jan 7 The .Wnffu publishes
" despatch ftom Madrid which states
1 that owing to the Kaiser's Illness the
. ruifrs ct all the German States have
, , . ,, ,, . .
b"n --'11"' 1",rl"'' Th''" Is great
, anxiety, the despatch says, about what
may happen if the Crown Prince assumes
the governing power.
German circles In Madrid, the despatch
1 adds, are taking the rumors of the
Kaiser's condition so seriously that the
'
concn tllP, K reneral.
. . . .
JT.LAU1S Vttha TO JAJTAW
tirrman Plea Itejeeted h (Iknii.H,
la Toklo Itrporl.
Sprriol Cablf Onpatch lo Tnr. rv
London, Jan, 7. A despatch from
Toklo credltn to Count Okiinia, the Japa
nese Premier, the statement .hat Ger
many hns made overtures for a scpat ate
pence to Japan and Itussln, bath of
, u.l.11. 1. ...... a, I tl.A ..r,
" , ' , , .
The overtures aio at tlbuted to acute
financial dllllcultles In Germany
NAME GARY FOR PRESIDENT.
Illinois Maiiofnctnrrra Say
He la
lilral Candldnte,
Chicago, Jan. 7. Judge Libel t
II.
Gary would make desirable Pieshleutlal
timber in the opinion of Illinois manu
facturers. The Jfiinuncfiirt ra .Vciro, the olllrl.il
' l'l'lloatlon of the Illinois Manufactu.e.s
AH,.)c,atlon. inu,u.i,ed a boom to-day for
Association, launched a boom to-day for
Judge Oary In an article which, accord
ing to John M. Glenn, secretary nf the
association, followed an Informal meet-
Mug of the organUiillon. Judge Gary
,,,.,, ...hmiithlfut Htld f..r
seeing" and as a man who "would make)
nn Ideal President."
"You can take It for what It s worth,
Mr. Glenn said. "There were several of
1 UH ut meeting and we weie talking
"b"1" Presidential limner some one
. suggested Jiioge ..at), vv e an
agreed
"mt n6 wouUI mah a good President,
1 Whether that Is the launching of an
1 actual campaign or Is merely a com-
1 mrnt on M ablUJies I do not know."
' rRK-r.MISKNTI.V TIIK FLORIDA Itllt'TR
' ATLANTIC 'MT LINK "N. V. Flnridi
: S.'. ?.S,lJ!.,r !
- ' VJ.'.
was destroyed by a torpedo this Gov
ernment will address n note to Germany,
Austria and Turkey demanding that
they subscribe to certain principles and
rules for the conduct of their siibinutlne
operations. These principles and rules
will be cited In the note. 1
The most Influential members of the Hitftal VaUe Htinfl, In Tnr Six
Cabinet are In favor of putting a time I-oNPok, Jan. S (Saturday). I'lcmUr
lllll"..!?, "0,i f"i ""I ''c"l'"nV." ,"f i.'inllh had u ronvjltntloti j.-scnUy
the principles and breaking off dlplo-' ...
m.ttlc relations in the event of a failure j 'even I of the leading member!
to comply. of the Cibiiift. The flttintlon at re-
It was learned definitely to-day thnt g.uds the compulsion bill is causing
ViTW "'
punishment and reparation and will 1,111 I" ur.d of a majoilty m Parlla
prohahly take the form outlined above, i ment aiul in the couiitr) nt large, II Is
The reror.1 of assurances which Ger- f ,t ,, le or , t Cong,,,
many and Austria have given to the , ,
United States now stands as follows: Pokesmen hae so pl.dgul tln-msclvti
Prom Herman) i
t Liners will not be sunk by our
submarines without warning and with
out safety of the lives of the passen
gers, provided the liners do not try to
escape or offer resistance.
2. German submarines In the Mediter
ranean had In the beginning orders
to conduct cruiser warfare against
enen.y merclinnt vessels only In ac
cordance with general, principles of
International law, and In particular
measures of reprisal as applied In the
war .one around the IlrltMi Isles
were to be excluded.
l'rom Austria!
The imperial and lloyal Government
can also substantially concur In the
principle expressed III the xery es.
teemed note that private ships In so
far as they do not llee or offer re
slstatne may not be destroyed with
out the persons on hoard being
brought Into safety
With thtse assurntii.-s officials here ' da mes 11. Thomas, lepreseiuing the nill
bellcve the future of the submarine N- y in..n, and lt.ims.ty M.i.-l loiiald. I.a-
IZ. "ifth'e'v ''-" vea B...-.
will live up to the assurances and are bill on Its iiitiodu.'ilon in Parlla-
sincere In their desire to avoid a break ment.
with the I'nlted States a settlement of
the l.ilsltaiila and other pending cases, i Oppose .leiiernl Election.
It Is tielleved. can be brought about
If, however. Germany and Austria are
merely playing fm-t and loose with the
I'nlttd States a bleak, as officials view
!r.ei1 I" i"?: ? COn""-. .A'-
..v.n, ,,,, , ,,L 1,.,.M
able to bring themselves to the belief
that Germany and Austria have given
these nssiir.tliCHt with the deliberate In
tentlon of violating them
GRAHAME-WHITE SUED
BY HIS AMERICAN WIFE
... .
rlH'llier .llX HorotllV lnvloi'
of New York Takes Steps
Ajiiiinst Aviator.
Slllt was enteled to-
IxivnoN, Jan. 7
day by Mrs Claude Gr.ilintne-Wlilte, decline to accept the vole of the .Nu
wife of the famous aviator, for a n.stor.i- tlonal Labor Congi.. as the jicc of
Hon of conjugal rights Kngllsh l'.,,",r- ",'"IK. i1','" 1 ''''''.f.'',''''
roiirls this Is
pK liniln it) step to suit
for dlvotie. Mrs Graliiuie-Whli
Miss Doiothy Tii.vlor of New York
,, , ,
ItumoiH of a break between tlie
aviator and his wife l.eK1 Aprii
when she was .New Vo.U. White, her
husband reinal..e,l with the Itmish
arm) Aviation 'nrps. lt was sad that
sue might lemaf. y if wie secured a
divorce Mrs. l.tahame-Whlte Is the
daughter of .Mrs. Hertiand V. T,i !,.r of
..((I Park avenue si,,. ,et h, r husband
here while he was flying In this counti v
and marrletl him June ;n;'.
ieins leacneii neie last fall that ,
. iiMiKitne-vv ntte had been shot in the
Tower of l,ondnn as n spy nnd tlun his
wife had been arrested on a siinil.tr
charue These were found to lie ground.
less
O'GORMAN FOR LAMAR'S PLACE ?
Senator Martlnr Asks Wilson n
Nniiir Vfw Viirkir,
W.vsiiiNUTo.x, Jan. 7 Priidilfiit Wil
son was iirnid to-day to appoint S n-i
ator iniortnati to the Supieme Couit
vacnncy, created hy the death of Jus-
tice Lamar. The suggestion came from
Senator Marline of New Jersey, who
called at the White House to urfrc Sen-
utor G'Gonuan's api-untiiient
Mr. Wilso'i iiHsured Mi. Martlnc Hint
he would make a careful canvass of
the available men before closing his
mind as to the' appointment
NAVY GIANT. 0RXAH0MA. HERE.
Grcnirst of nierlrnii Itrra.l
iionuhls al llrooklyn t'iinl.
,..,, ij v i.-.i, ,ii,, inr nanus in uie lower
channel of the Kast lllver aa Hi,, tide
, Was ebb tig yestei.la, the gm dtead-
poin.'iit uhianoma, nssislrd i,j t1Ks,
nm.it her way tn a inrth In tlie llroolil.vu
i niivy yard. It was the first visit of
, th- mrut ship, largest In the I'ultul
States navy, to the yard.
Tim Oklahoma was built by tlie New
York Shipbuilding Company ut Camden, j
N. J.. and -went lo the nnvy yard to thy '
dock and prepare geiinally for the lrli.lt
I irlp. which will .bcble 1st acceptance
'or rejection by tlie Uovernment.
s
BRITAIN FACES
ELECTION OVER
LABOITSSTAND
Government Considers Step
lo Avoid Tron hie Over
Conscription.
ASQITril CONFERS
WITH MINISTERS
London Papers Declare
That Appeal to Country
Is Inevitable.
IMPRISONMENT FOR
EVASION OF SERVICE
Six .Months in .lail and
Fines Provided hy Com
pulsion Rill.
that theie may be trouble wlun the
bill becomes operative. The Govern
ment s examining c1o-ly ttich a con
tingency, and the imsslbillty of a cviier.il
election as a solution of til present
difficulties s con-idertd.
The text of the conscription bill has
been Issued. The penalties prescribed
for those who attempt to evade military
service Include Imprisonment not exceed
ing six mouths without li.it d labor for
persons making false statements and a
fine not exceeding CIO ($23rt) for failure
to notify tin- authorities of a change of
circumstance "r
Sir John Simon, who ieiKiud from the
Cabinet n a protest aaninst the com
pulsion bill, John Hums, the I..ib-r
leader, who teslaned from the Cabinet
on i ileal lliltalu's tntrv into tlie war;
The opponents of the . niiipul-nr) mil -
t.uy service bill are taking the lead m
opposition lo Hie proposal foi a genetal
election. It is generally m ngnl.i.il that
the Mil has come through ih. ti.M orde.,1
io the House of Common- iietdlngl.v
well.
It is understood tint the National's
petty ll.l- lleiided lit', to oliMltnt t'.-I'llS-llKe
of the bill, but merely register
a fiitui.il protest iigiiust Uie principle
Involved.
The position o'' the Labor p.irty l!
in. ie complex Deep divisions li.ue ap
pealed in the ranks, pievrlitiug them
from putting lo-w.inl a iiiilt.d flout
Thliteen Labor mi'iiibers vot.d for the
intiodiictlnti of the bill and cWht against
it Arthur Ilemlerron. i !. II Huberts
!m William lirace. the three l.alsir
menibeis of the Ministry who resigned,
Intn.d to support the bill in Its later
tllges
Tie minds' ieiii'.-.'..'at.ves reuia'n
linpleducd until the special confeience of
the Mineis I'Vii. i.itlon nxt vvnk has
ai'llvcd at a declsioi It I- probable
that the general question will also be
1 leopetied vvltldn th" I..ibm pirty next
,.,.L several Mlellllle's of Hie narlv
n,...i:,., into v. ii.ru.- ..g.ilust Hi. Iiiil ay
the stiggcstii.il that its o'lollaries were
the pel petll.ltloil of rollipill-oi service
nfter the wai and an i Mended con-crlp-
0 (lf ,.,iH,.
"" v, ,,,,. ,..., ,, the u.i; ,Mi
,,.' dlsc'is.d bv the Hon f Lords
, ., Tncsd..). Vis. omit Midlet,.,, w.ll a.M.
,,i Kuchrner. it u uudersiood. what
Miitiilx r of recruit-. ha e been raised I-.
,;.,. ,,.,, and Ii-lud r.spertlvely
,. ., ,,. i,...-, . tit- ,.f the
whether he can give an .ippn.xlnu.te cs
I n r tnn i.n.,,i ,r i. ,.-!.
available in Ireland.
Seek to tl old Clerlloii,
While it i- admitted th.it a general
eie tion would result in serin Ing the
support of the country foi Uie meaMir
tlie ! Ml'linielit Is ivdeiltU tlilrolls of
aiuid.ng surli an cvrntiMlltv if It Is I i
an.v way possible. tVri.,iii imici's, how
ever, notnblv the Dully Mifl and the
Dull), 7'cruiiip., give it as tne.- opinion
tl'it with the open ..ppos.t.oii of thu
Labor ennsress lo the bill tin election
I. inovitnhl".
Tlie Man 1'clei' 1 1 1'ftrilhiu epies'n"
1 "'giet that the liist intioduclion or a
compulsion plan should result In the ills-
integiatlon of the loalit.on Cildiiet
lloweve. mislead) the union of paitle-
has been, it sas, iiinler tne sttess of
leitalu untoVMiid event- it li.i" tended
lo l"' run. , ntrat ion "l tin country on
cue object limn the initltiri.l, of the via,
lo lb" imseiu lime.
"The hic.ilttiii," Il savs- "Is announced
b) Ihi ina.-sivr m.iji'l'iv against lln
(iovetnniriit bill at the giral labor ron
frirnrr t xt .'! il.i.v and is sgitiie. by
the pi'ouipl irsigniilton of liner I ..i Imr
Mlnlsleis. Of the tine" p.utlrs forming
Hie coalition, one has thus withdrawn
. ir ,t... ..it.... ..... .....,l..w II..-
tlticulnhrd
........I.. .. I. ... .!.........
,lt,.lal pioportlou of the rank
anil nie will go with linn
"The Governiiietit has nt a slrol.e be
tninr a pariv Guverument.
nllhoiigh the
,iri) is new In polities nnd a definite,
and tegular opposition riu.ugcs at thu
H,,ine moment Sin I the ennse.
quenees, deeply regrettable, of which
many of us have cnnsisleinl) warned
the Government since the conscription,
Ists' agitation began
Positive evidence Is essential, ths
lOuurdloii
goes on to sa), that lor.ivul
