A
1 ? ' r l? ti, a\??, ?? li ?li?, ,t?|,if?lr<i in W-I'l.
'!>?" >it?. ? .?ih* |?*??*?!?'? > ss'l??i", ?frtai".
? ??? ? ?l '??.? i't'H Mi) ??.,-?..* ?<?* uh???? th.,,,
30.000 paid dfcalMiMi ??kit*/, mutch coven mtom? of tlir
best hoamci ia Wathington
A
S fer?? ?t^-sjwafsiJ (?mt.* I ??,?. Hv fi* ?y
fUatrafltrrt '?ill lisant r a - , .art? i ir? issa?
? Ia*?M*M of *fa|.-i?>i ?dardisa-d art ?la? a*), (1. , , ,,,ul*ar?(
f?f tKt? r**\f?(*i l*V ?ni W ??afiil?f tuft rnri.r?/ '
NO. XM1.
WEATHER: FAIR, COLD
WASHINGTON. D. C. SATl'HDAY. JAM'AHY S. 101G.
om; cknt
1i ?? ?afc?** >*?? .ame r*4?ti *ttt*j_
1 ikvaf-r???? l | -I W MOM? t?P ? It *? T*
BITTER BATTLE
IN BESSARABIA,
LONDON REPORTS
Russian Assaults on Austro
Hu.nganan Trenches
Fiercely Rwist-sd.
50,000 MEN ARE LOST
Czar's Troops, However, Said
to Be Steadily Advancing
at South.
RUSS TROOPS 12 RANKS DEEP
Battle in Progr??* Nearly a Fortnight.
Cannon Numbering 3,500
B^ch Forth.
SsecisI l"abl? lo Tka Waahlngtoa Hi-raid.
La*>ndun, Jan. 7. ? Russian troop* were
hurled at the Austrian trenches twelve
ranks deep In their smashing drive on
the Bessarabian front, according to Pe
ti ograd dispatches reaching here to?!??.*.-.
The infantry assaults followed a con
centrated artillery fire of fifty hours'
duration, in which more than 400 g'jna
nera engaged.
The 'losses of the attacking Russians
were enormous, according to Austrian re
??orts. The war office report from Viejuna
tonight states:
"Trustworthy estimates of the Russian
losses in the New Year's fighting on tl-.e
Reasarabtan frontier and In the Stripa
region places them at no less than 50,
!?*).*?
? -- ??? - ? ? ?? ?? . Ferrea Eeiraare?!.
This battle, which has now been in
?? ogress nearly a fortnight, is ragni?;
with particular fury on the front from
Tamopol to Tremho?Ata, southeast of
l-emberg. On this sector alone SW.00O
men ind 3.5?jO cannon arc enrage?! In un
ceasing conflict.
? iil'ici.il reports stale that the Russians
have captured Czarstorysk and a height
to the weal of the town, while Austrian
HtUi-ju northeast of Cxonovttx are de
""> ?-** h-v' '?"?" T"?' Hu-"? -,
?.ort (?-?nlgM Bets:
?In the region of Olas th? Oermans
?:sed g?s. Near Jacobstadt thirty of our
.-?colite bravely engaged In a hand-to
hand encounter with the Oerman scouts,
bayoneting a number of them and cap
turing 3?
'We captured I'aartorysk and the
helsrhts to the west ward. We took three
?HI? ers and 7? men The hostile counter
attack faileii completely to dislodge us
?fjm the town or hlU."
Tomorrow
THE
SUNDAY
HERALD
ONE
CENT
WORKERS RIOT
IN OHIO TOWN
Austrian Steel Men ?Said to
Be Pillaging at
Youngstown.
THREE MILITIA REGIMENTS
CALLED TO COMMAND PEACE
Nineteen Persons Shot in Battle
Between Strikers and Spe
cial Police.
?peri?! to Tbe Washington Herald
E?.?t Youmalown. Ohio. Jan. 7.?Six
thousand steel strikers, mostly Aus
?trlane, tonight are rioting, pillaging
and looting her? by the light of burn
ing buildings they have tired.
Three regiment? of militia have been
summoned, but It Is feared that unless
they arrive quickly the city is doomed.
The Are loss already Is more than
1300,000
Nineteen persons were ?hot, four
probably mortally, in a battle between
strikers and special police at the plant
of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube
Company. The strike at this plant is
the bitterest. Three other companies
are involved?the Republic Bteel and
Iron Company, the Brier Hill Steel
Company, and the Toungstown Sheet
and Iron Company. The fight center?
about the plant of the sheet and tub?
company, however, it being declared
that war munitions are being manufac
tured there. The authorities claim that
the trouble was fomented by person?
interested in closing all ammunition
plane...
Mi*. Renkin S?nt to Prison.
Pwcial Osate Io Tue ??auun?v>ii U?nald.
Havre, Jan. ".?Julleete Renkin, sister
of the Belgian colonial minister, who
wa? arrested some time ago by the
Germans, has been aventenced to sta
months' Imprisonment and a fine of 1,
099 marks. The nature of the offenee
alleged arainst the woman is not known
here. Sh?' was dcoted to charitable work
and was highly patriotic.
Advertisers Can Only Have
Their Share of Space
in the New
I-CENT
Sunday Herald
.
There muat be room for all the news of all the world and for every
other iiatured article or section like Julia Chandler Manz's Dramatic
Department, the Weekly Sports Review, edited by "Bill" Peet, dean
of Washington sport writers; "Doings of Society," Fraternal, Church,
Arm?, and Navy News. Etc. The four-color comics will l>e in a section
all by themselves.
No More Advertising Will Be Accepted
Lansburgh & Bro.,
Washington's Progressive Department Store,
will be represented with a double-page spread of
their very best offerings
B.nd
?eveTy other line of retail merchandise that the public ha? been
accustomed to keep in touch with every Sunday through newspaper
advertising? will be found represented in tomorrow's Sunday HERALD.
You can buy this merchandise from Sunday HERALD advertising
?vitaS the satisfied knowledge that you are purchasing guaranteed
money's worth?See The HERALD'S personal guarantee in right
"ear" space at top of this page.
A Seventh-Day Continuation of a Newspaper Like
the Week-Day Issues of The Washington Herald
Plus A11 of Those Special Features That Contain
Real Live News of Interest to All Washington
ENTENTE AMONG
REPUBLICS FOR
DEFENSE LIKELY
Result of Pan-American Con
gress Probably Will Be
Formation of Alliance.
WOULD BE WORLD MODEL
Western Hemisphere Would ?
Be Knit Together as a Para
gon of Peace and Strength.
EXPECT BOUNDLESS BENEFITS
Sessions Will Be Brought to Close To- {
day Banquet Tonight Will
Mark Termination.
Th?? second, and by far, th? more im
portant Pan-American Scientific Con
??res?, a Katherine of representative
Htatesmen and scientists of the America?,
will be brought to a clow* today with
general session for the consideration of
resolutions adopted by the various sec
tions. Following a visit to Baltimore, a?
the guests of the city, the delegates ?HI
disperse, to meet again five ywn h? r. ?!
tn I-ima, I'eru.
At the congress now coming to a ' los??, I
the thoughts of most learned men of the
Western Hemisphere, as to the promo
tion of more friendly intercourse between
the republics, in all the branches, have
been disclosed.
The.se t h chi g h ts are expected to mate
rialize In the form of an "entente" of the
various American countries, that in the
best sense of the word will be a defen
sive entente, and not an offensive en
tente; a knitting together of the na
tions of North and South America into
an alliance that will serve aa a model to
the other nations of the world, and with
Its strength promote an International
peace.
The republics of the Americas axe ex
pected to derive Inestimable benefit from
the deliberations of this congress, in
? nance, science, and education, through
the establishment of better trade rela
tions, mxohhngm of professors ?fid stu
dents, and the formation of an entente.
??p.,p*-! for lonluhi
The social functions of the congress
will be completed tonight when the dele
gates will gather around the hanquat
table at he New Willard. Tbe affair will
be entirely social, though speeches will
be made by Judge George Gray, of I>ela
ware, chairman of the United States
delegation; the Minister of Costa Rica,
the Minister of Bolivia, and Janice
Browne Scott, secretary of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. Sec
retary of State Lansing will preside and
will introduce Ambassador Suarcz-Mujtca,
of Chile, president of the congress.
In the final act of the congress un
qalified ?approval of the proposals of
President W'ilson will be Incorporated.
th? act will likewise recommend to the
governments of the Americas the con
sideration ej?. the proposals with the idea
of immediate acceptance. The delegates
from Latin-America individually and
generally are enthusiastic in their sup
port of the proposals and of their ad
miration of the President's frankness in
his presentation.
Yesterday afternoon the wives of the
delegates were guests of the Congres
stonai Club at a reception.
I*v? Ke-ctlVB Kndi Work.
The international law section ended Its
session yesterday with the reading of
the two final papers on its program and
the expression of the apreciatlon of the
delegates of the efforts of James Browne'
Scott, secretary of the Carnegie Endow
ment, in making the meetings so suc
cessful. The final session was presided
jver by Dr. Alejandro Alvarez, counselor
jf the legations of Chile in Kurope.
?n turning over the chair. Dr. Scott de
clared it seemed most appropriate that
the last session should be presided over
by a delegate from the country of the
president of the eon.gress.
A paper reviewing the recently issued
monograph of Dr. Alvarez, entitled "La
Grand Guerre Europ?en? et la Neutralit?
du Chile." was read by Dr. ?Eduardo
tional law and diplomacy In the universi
ties of B'ienos Airea and 1-a Plata. At
Its conclusion a vote of thanks was ex
tended Dr. Alvares for his contribution
to literature and for hts efforts in diplo
matic and other conferences toward the
advancement of international law. This
vote also was extended to Dr. Laspiur
for his excellent presentation.
Ih*. V. ML Pena Penaherrera, of the
University of Quito. Ecuador, submitted
a paper on the Institution of the Jury
system.
CO^.N't-'BD ON PAfiE TWO.
Yes!
Tlie New Sunday HERALD
at ONE CENT will contain
all the real news that you can
get in the other Sunday
morning papers combined?
only the price is ONE CENT
instead of five cents.
President and Mrs. Wilson
Receive Four Thousand At
Initial Public Reception
White House Social Event, Given in Honor of Pan-American
Diplomats and Delegates, Scene of Charm
ing Beauty and Gala Attire.
#> miluni;? MARSHALL ?????.
The initial hospitality of the White
House social season went down into the
annul*? of the Kxecutive Mansion aa one
of the most brilliant affairs in history,
as well as the largest reception ever
held there. With a distinguished Presi
dent and a charming bride as host?, and
the Latin-American representatives of
powerful republics aa the guests of
honor, a unique interest attached to th?
occasion such as scarcely occurs in a
decade of official entertaining- The re
ception lust I ill 111 served a triple part
In closing the visit of the distinguished
I ^tin-Americans, ushering Into the Cap
ital the real social season of 1916 and
Inaugurating the new social regime at
the White House.
More than 4.000 guests assembled In the
historic Kant Room, Including distin
guished visitors from twenty republics
of the Western Hemisphere, as well as a
hrllHant gatherina from the diplomati*
representatives of the I ??tin-A mer lean
r-oun tries, the official contingent of
? ?.?hlngton eotloty. the army and navy
set. ?nd the residential circles of the
Capital
r>rne?'i I??velleat ?.? v. ?-.?..
The K?st Room, with Its crystal can
delabra aglow and its walls pa In.? I tank
ed, was a superb setting for ao promi
nent a gathering. The loveliest towns
of the season were worn at the White
House and there were Jewels worth the
proverbial kind's ransom. The army and
navy officers a pi ?eared in the full-dress
uniform of their rank.
Promptly at 9:30 o'clock, the Marin?
Band, stationed In the entrance hall,
struck up "Hall to the Chief" and th*
President and Mrs. Wilson, fuHowed by
th? entire receiving party. proceeded
down the stairway and entered : tie Blue
Room to which the Une of guests even
tually wended Its way. Mrs. Wilson took
her place next to the President. Th?
Vice President and Mrs. Marshall should
have been next In the order of prece
dence, had not Mrs. Marshall's late ill
ness prevented her from being present.
The ladt*.? of the Cabinet completed the
party, standing in the order of their hus
bands' precedence. Kor the first time,
Mrs. Landing, wife of th* Secretary of
State, took her place In the line, together
with the Presidents daughter, Mrs. Will
lam Gibb? M \.i.... wife of th* Secretary
of th* Treasury, and Mrs. Thomas Watt
Gregory, wife of the Attorney Gen*ral.
The pan-American visitor/-, as th*
guests of honor, were ushered into the
presence of the President f-rst. the dele
C?NTINUED ON PACE TWO.
Probe Into Affairs of D. C.
Officials Asked of House
Representative Cary, of Wisconsin, Introduces Resolution
Calling for Thorough Investigation of Departments.
Would Know Whether Favors Have Been Accepted.
A resolution calling for a sweeping in-1
vestlgatioci of the ?affair* of "oertain IMs-1
trtct officials ' by the House District Com-'
tnittee was Introduced in the House yes
terday by Repreaenutive William J
Cary, of Wisconsin.
When asked last night what branches
of the District government wuuld be In
cluded in the proposed Inquiry, Repre
sentative Cary said:
"Why, the entire District government
needs investigating?from the bottom *p.'?
Representative Cary admitted that thej
pmhe would include the police depart- '
ment and the workhouse farm at Occo-|
quan. Va. When asked if he had any i
concrete evidence to offer Congress, the!
member from Wisconsin said that If h? j
could get authority from the House to
conduct an investigation he would 'pro
duce the evidence."
Representative Cary stated that at the
recent fiscal inquiry and at other Dis
trict hearing? in recent years "facts were
brought out that require closer attention
and should be gone into deeper.*'
Keep* Bark Details.
Mr. Cary declined to discuss his charges
in detail, sa> ing that he might let some
thing out prematurely. The resolution
makes no direct charges, merely asking
for an investigation to determine whether
"the action of this Hou.se Is necessary
concerning alleged official misconduct by
certain officiala of the District govern
COASTERS WELCOME SHOW.
Merry Partira lialki-r on City'? 11 III?
???,?? Mella JIbkIf.
Youngster? who found that Santa Claus
had left them bob sleds on Christma?
morning had a good chance to use them
last night, following Washington's flrst
big snow of the winter, and Thirteenth
street hill in front of the Franklin 8chool
Building and other hill? In the city were
doited until a late hour with merry coaat
ing parties.
A few persons who survived the finan
cial depression following the Christmas
holiday? planked down the price of a
hired sleigh and the merry Jingle of sleigh
belle was heard on the avenue.
Fair and continued cold weather la
promised by the Weather Bureau for to
day followed by fair weather tomorrow
and a slight rise In temperature. Mod
erate north to easterly winds are prom
ised.
.1
No!
You don't have to take the
daily HERALD in order to
get the Sunday delivered at
your door. Just phone Main
:;:300?and leave the rest to
lib.
But you ought to take the
daily also. Why you save $2.00
a year on the new ONE-,
CENT Sundav HERALD,
you save $3.00 more a year
on the daily?a total saving
of $0.00.
meat, both in and out of the Ln.-*irict of
C?ol??\tb.a.'- ?
RepoVsentative Cary's reaolution reads:
R*foIvsd. That th* Comraitt** on th*
I'lbtriet of Columbia be directed to in
quire and report whether the action of
this House is necessary concerning th*
ailecsti nfflrtal misconduct of c*rtain of
ficials of the District government, both
in and out of the District of Columbia;
whether they have accepted favors from
P-eople, and to examine all books and rac
cords and persons now employed in said
District government.
"That this committee is hereby au
thorized and empowered to send for per
sons, to administer oath, to employ. If
neces-sary, an additional clerk and sten
ographer and to appoint and send a sub
committee wherever and whenever neces
sary to take testimony for the use of
' said subcommittee.
"That the subcommittee shall have the
same power with respect to obtaining
testimony as is herein given to the saJd
Committee on the District of Columbia
and the Speaker shall hft\ e authority to
sign and the clerk to attest subpoenas
for any witness or witnesses.
"That any attempt to Intimidate wit
nesses by anyone will be iSinishable b>
an imprisonment in jail of not more tha*.
two years and not less than six months.
"That the expenses incurred in this in
vestigation shall be paid out of th* con
tingent fund of the Hous*."
British Submarine
Lost Off Holland
Grounded and Leaking. But
Crew Is Saved and
Interned.
ftpcciaJ cue lo Tie? W??tria?toai Heasald.
Ieondon, Jan. 7.?The ?Inking of ? |
British submarini? off th? coa?t of Hol-^
land wa? officially ?n.n.-?l md???
The crew wa? ??ved.
The admirait) statement ??y? that j
the submarine, the name of which Is |
not given, wa? sunk yesterday off the
Island of Texel, the largest and most I
southwesterly of the Frisian group. ?
The entire crew, numbering: thirty
three, wa? rescued by the Dutch cruis
er Noord Brabant and brought into the
Dutch port of Helder.
The Hague, Netherlands ? via leondoni.
Jan. T.?The ministry of marine an
nounce? that a British submarine which
was flying signals of distress was en
<-ounter?*d by the Dutch cruiser Noord
Brabant outside of Dutch territorial i
? aters.
I Tlia? accident to the submarine was due ,
to the fact that it ?rounded ami sprang
a leak, having tafktn the wrong courae
of Nooriihindc? The crew has been in
terned in the naval barracks.
Thieves Make Big Haul at St. Paul.
j St. Paul. Minn.. J?n. 7.?One million dol-:
lars' worth of revenue stamp? and Jfy.ti in
ci*h was the loot of :ig^ who Mew the(
vault In the I'nited states government,
building here last night.
Baiti????? asa Okie tee MaltlaMsre.
Sl.io round trip eTerj Saturday ?nd ,
Sunday; good returning until ? ?a- m.
Monday.?Adv.
Germany Will Puniih Sub
Officer? Violating Laws
The German Ambassador ret
ler 4? r ioti at the Department
of State u.nler Instruction? from
ills ?reveinmenl the followlm in
structions:
1. German submarine* In the
Mediterranean .md. from the be
ginning, order? tn conduct cruli?er
warfare apalnst enemy merchant
\er-jcl? only In accordance with
get eral principie? of interna
tional law.
i. All case of destruction of
enemy merchant ?Mpe In the
Mediterranean in which German
submarine? are concern ed are
made the subject of official In
vest lg-ation. and, besldea. submit
ted to regular prise court pro
ceeding??.
3. If commander? of German
submarine? should not have
obeyed the older? given to them.
they will be ptinlahed: further
more, the German government
will make reparation for damage
caused by death of or injurie? to
American citisen?.
HIT SCHOOL
CHANGE PLAN
Northwest Suburban Citizens
Score District Commis
sioners' Proposal.
CALL SCHEME SELFISH MOVE
TO GRATIFY POLITICAL AIMS
AsM-Oiation Also Protests Against Sug
gest^ Increase in Salary for
D. C. Official?.
?Therging that the Comralaaioneri-. ?re
endeavoring to Rain control of the local
school system "to gratify political and
?elfish ambitions and desires," the ClU
sena' Northweet Suburban Association
Li.m rip h ? adopted a resolut ton opposing
any clian.ee in the pr?sent school system.
The resolution waa Introduced by Fred
erick J. Heide- and paased unanimously.
The leaolution provides that the ques
tion be brought up by its delegate to the
???:-' ?sUon of O turns As-sociatlon? at
the meeting of that bod) in lb* room? of
the Chamber of Commerce tonight. < om
n.tssloner Oll. er Y Ne? roan 1* expected
to attend the federstion meeting and ex
plain why he and his colleagues made the
recommendation to Congress which has
met with auch united opposition by the
citizens of the District.
The association adopted a resolution.
introduced by Rankin H. Rice, protesting
?against the recommendation of tbe Com?
mis* toners for an Increase In their oarn
salarier. "As the present salary Is am
ply sufficient for the service performed,
the pr-sent Commissioners. If they are
not satisfied with the salaries they now
receive, which t? mure than they ever
earned before In private life, should
resign their office." reads the resolution.
The resolution ''alls u?K>n the other as
sociations to take similar action. Copies
of the resolution will be aent to the Com
missioners and to both District commit
tees of Congress.
The resolution opposing the proposed
change in the school system reads:
"Whereas the Commissioners In their
estimates for the fiscal year 1917 have
recommended that the Board of ?educa
tion be abolished and that the control
of our public schools and all appoint
ments therein be transferred to the Com
missioners; and
"Whereas this recommendation was not
reTJested or petitioned Ujr any organised
body of our citizens and in total dirfrt
sard of the right? and Interests of our
local people and the patrons of our pub
lic schools; and
"Whereas said attempted transfer is a
political scheme to destroy the integrity,
efficiency and purity of our public school
system, which is now and has been for'
many years satisfactory- to the patrons'
and teachers, as well as th? taxpayers;'
therefore, be it
"Resolved, by the Citizens' Northwest
Suburban Association. That we regard
this recommendation as a sinister attack
on our present model school system for
political and personal control to gratify
political and selfish ambition and de
sires."
WHITE HOUSE GUESTS
HURLED FROM CARRIAGE
Daughter of Former Secretary of Ag
riculture and Miss Gillette In
jured While Riding Home.
While returning horn* from th? Whit?
House reception shortly before 12 o'clock
lut night. Miss Flora Wilson. dauehtrr
of the former Secretary of Agriculture
and Mlas Anille Gillette were thrown
from their carriage In East Executive
avenue. Miss Wll.aon sustained bruise?
about Hie arms and body, and Mis? Gil
lette's leJt arm was broken. The drivi r
of their i-arrtage was arrested for riola
tlon of polio reerulatlons In lea vine hi?
feat to recover his hat just before the
accident.
The horses became frightened at a pass
ing vehicle and swerved the carriage.
The youn?r a omen were hurried to the ?
residence of Mis? Gillette, 2SS R street
northwest, in a taxtcab. where they were
?rested by Dr. James F. Mitchell
? Score Hurt in Stoy. 111.. Explosion.
I Sullivan. Ind.. Jan. 7.?A telephone mes
sage from Stoy. 111., on the bonier be
tween Indiana and Illinois lat, today said
that ?* nlto-glycerine i>lant ihere wa?
j blown up late this afternoon and thai a
sc-oi?- ot person?? had been Inlured.
BERLIN PROMISES TO
OBSERVE WORLD LAWS
IN ALL HER SUB WORK
Germany Voluntarily Assures U. S. That
Undersea Activities in Mediterranean will
Conform With International Rules
VIOLATORS TO BE PUNISHED
Teutonic Advances Believed to Have Been Prompted by
Sinking of Persia?Action Lightens Tension and
Clears Way for Dispute's Settleim-nt
(?ermany, on her own initiative, ha? given formal asaerk?. r> to
the L'nited States that her submarine arriviti?? in the Meditrr-anea?
are being and will be ?ronduoteri striarti) in acror<i?Us?r with .???lei-nartiinal
law.
Count von l?ernstorrT. the Gem?an AmbassaaJoc. yesterdax deetreretl
to Secretary l.an?.inji a memorandum from Ilerlin containing ihr
?ledge*? of the German government.
Germany voluntarily assures The I'nited States tiiat ana submarine
commander who should have failed to otsey thar*e ainJer?. vaili he puni?*?
e<l; also that the German government will make revaratmn "for ?damaf???
causarxi by death or injurie?, to American citizens.''
While the German Ambassador assure?! Sarcretar?. l^anMnr that hi?
government liad no information in*
regard to tl* sinking of the British
steamship Persia with I'nited
States Consul McNeely on board,
it is apparent that the new German
assurances have resulted from that
case. In fact, the German govern
ment seems to conceive it a> a
possibility that a German subma
rine may have .sunk the Persia,
for it says in the memorandum :
Pri?.T? < ?Karl Irorfrin?;.
"All cm*??? of destruction of enemy
merchant ships in th? Mediterrane-ai. In
which German submarine* ?np coo- crnec I
mre mtttt tbe subject of ofncial Investiga
tion and, beat de* ev bmate*! to rogvlar j
ar*?e ?apart procr-yJ'ng? \o ?**> f?f is
Am*-n m,f ??'??*???> -? (?ncerne-d. tha-,
G*rm*?si government will commuolctUr
the retnilt to the Amartrin government.
Thus aleo In tbe Pervia' caae If the
< ircumatanoea should ?rail tor it"
The presentation ot the German mem
orandum served to II* h ten th?* tension
that haa esisted in official circle? ever
ntnee Ute ?ink.?* of the Peral?. The mere
fact taht Germany haa seen At to tak*?
thi* step on her own Initiative, following
so closely on the assurance ?riven by
Austria In her reply to the Ancona note.
ia regarded by Washington officials as
significantly as the assurances th-t-m
selves. The action by Germany is taken
as further evidence of the deaire on the
part of the Central powers to av*Md a
break with the I'nited States and to go
aa far as possible in satisfying the ?de
mands of this government.
With the receipt of the German mem
orandum the hope of this government
reaching- s satisfactory understanding
with botti Germany and Asirla on all
phases of the submarine question be
came noticeably brighter, but American
officials have been disappointed so many !
times before that they refrained from
making prediction*
At the same time that Count von
BernatorrT presented the memorandum
on the submarine activities In the Med
iterranean he took up with Secretary
?a on tne ??>p?4 mt
ir ?-imt^'nc that
?Ink IkjUs la UM
lan-ring the eettlsruMtl of the lMieiianla
cmse. The ? p lied State? end t?rrmmmy
are still at a ?deadlock on the fort? mt
the dlsavoirai. Ormali)
her assurance? noi to
war son? without m> nag warning -aaad
safegardlng the lire? of pa sacacera s>jad
crew m itself constituted s tltsavowaJ.
and thr raited s La taa standing out far
an abe<?lui< disavowal tn worda
ftetllraarnt la ? ?v
In the opimon of person p rloar te tha
German Bmlasaey tbe n?rw ?n siissala sate
milted by l-ermani has brcHigai the
near-cr a ??en lenient, .tuj the nredk
was made that a satisfactory siisstilll
will be rea<h<d ?iter oa? or two maora
cnndsrsa 11 between the Ambassador amm .
Berretmry lanstic or 4'
la the 1* is 111 ????>' aHA maa tlsissan
r~ t h* s??. ; m
Cu 1 ?ay goes far
ther I? the ws 1 ot gi ilss] aasuranrn?
than In any previous communicatMn.
She promises flatly to ohaerve every Itera
of in ie? national law tn tear aaaaaaarta?
operatIona in the M. dlierranean ?nd de
clsres thst Instruction? to that
wer? viven to bar eu?btaar*ine oomn
era. In her previous asauranco? affeet
ing the so-celled war son?, t?ei mans
promised merely thst "liners" ?out?] nal
lie sunk without warning and wittesad
s.-tfeguardlng the lives of passenger? la
; the Mediterranean German? pledca? her?
[ wif nr? to sink freight a? w? II a? p??a
srngei ?.easels un ill after the ?paassssaasa
?Jt-aasg have Imen put In places of
! a? f r ? >
A m base* o ? ??
G-****h'*rr ' ????.-?-da
Bhtiih D-Bodt Geti St??? Tw-key.
I sH..al I'aMr to Tar Waahisctao HrralA
' lx?ndon. Jan ;.-4n Athe*?? dispatch to
?the ?'hronicl? slat?? II 4a reported thai a
; British rubmarlne has penetrated to tl?e
?."ndrn Horn ? ? 'onstantinople?. dHinaglag
the arsenal The workmen and mpular?
mere panic-stricken
Rev Haver. Jnry Deadlocked
rodai te Th? HI insalisi Herald
New Tork. Jsji. '??Alter being out taa
?hours the Jury In the Nr? Haven ooa
'spirso trial had ni? yet rear bod a ver
Idlct at : o'clock thia asornlng
Order That New
l-CENT
SUNDAY MORNING
HERALD
Right Now
If you ha\en"t tain?* to look up your dealer. ru?t prxxte
Mam 3300 ?uid ask for 'Tirculabon,*' or drop in at our 1322
New York avenue office
and you will find it on your
doorstep Sunday morning
You can gtt thi* home Sunday delivery ?venrKe every
week for ONE CENT?or tlie Daiiv and Sunckv rven day for
30 CENTS A MONTH
Here's ? ?Mft-Per Celt lacrea?? fron ttmmk?amfl
Br?*k?m?ad D. C
pi???? ?nere???? m? or<l?r fo' Stinata) Hrraio? fr???n ?? io tt*.
a?? obli??._s. w. et istattaa. a**
