MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 5.
22.60.
AFHnONA Fair.
MEMBFR ASSOCIATED PRE8S
4
VOL. 13, NO. 192.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JANUARY 8, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ft
El II II
i
1
. i
. t
J
.-
v4
4.
1
1
.:
'
c
'-.
.
-.1
Jk
i
J
.,4
-' -4
EAST YQUNGSTOWN HAS NIGHT OF
HOftRORWHEN DRINK-MADDENED
MOB LOOTS, BURNS AND DESTROYS
Mob, Consisting of Striking Laborers frcm Steel Mills, Turn
Darkness to Bad Account and Succeed in Burning Up
Close to Million Dollars Worth of Property; Besides Sac
rificing Several of Their Number to Death; Many Hurt:
Riots Are the Result of a Demand for Increased Wages By the
Strikers. Troops Are Being Rushed to the East Ohio Town
from Several Parts of the State. Federal Soldiers May Also
be Sent from Columbus. Fire Still Burning After Midnight
LAST NEWS OF RIOTS.
YOUNGSTOWN. (Saturday) Jan. 8. Four men were killed and four
teen others. Including a wymian. shot, while 15 city blocks were destroyed
by fire as a result of the riots. '
At three this morning the fire was still raging with the loss at about
a millioii. Troops of the national guard are gathering outside the city.
They will not be brouRht in until daylight. Pending their arrival armed
citizens patrolled the strike zone.
SITUATION QUIETING DOWN
YOUNGSTOWN, (Saturday) After
hands of a drunken mob, the situation
controlled. The authorities expressed
The fire is still raging. From forty to
are partially cleared of rioters. The youngstown fire department arrived to
combat the flames. For six hours, crowds of men and women, maddened by
drink, ran the streets smashing windows
of buildings.
Oscar Dlser, a city
.,o it a vmoj ith rovnivan thov
volley in the air., The rioters returned the fire. Diser ordered the men td
fire into the mob. Half a dozen rioters fell. Armed with night sticks, the
citizens scattered the mobs into groups and rounded .them up, hauling them
to jail in multifarious vehicles.
Nearly half a hundred men were arrested and taken to jail while others
were loaded on wagons and taken to their homes. Many men suffered from
cuts and other wounds, the result, according to authorities, of fighting among
themselves.
One of the buildings attacked by the mob was'that in which the postoffice
was located. According to reports the rioters forced their way into the
building, and compelled the man who was on duty at the time to open the
safe, and then looted the place. The building later was burned.
Company K of the Eight Regiment, Ohio National Guard arrived here early
today and marched at once to East Youngstown. The report that troops had
already begun to arrive seemed to awe the rioters and resulted in many leav-inp-the
city, according to the police.
The names of four additional injured men have been reported to the police.
TWO DEAD: NINETEEN INJURED
YOUNGSTOWN, Jan. 7. Two rioters were killed in a saloon fight, making
three known dead. Niineteen are injured or wounded, including one woman.
Six city blocks are burned. The loss is $S00,O0O. The flames were beyond con
trol at midnight. The rioters stole 500 pounds of dynamite from a freight car
and declared they would dynamite the entire residential section of East
Youngstown. The bridge from East Youngstown to Struthers was burned to
prevent the rioters entering the town.
United Slates regulars at Youngstown are reported to have been ordered to
the scene because of the looting and burning of the postoffice. An unidentified
foreigner was seen .looting the postoffice shortly before the burning. He was
shot in the leg by a policemen but escaped. The rioters secured a large quan
tity of liquors in a saloon and later burned the building. The saloons In the
city of Yougstown. and those in Mahoning and Trumbull counties were closed
indefinitely by order of the state authorities. Fifty rioters were arrested.
When the police were compelled to leave the jail to patrol the fire zone
the strikers congregated and threatened to forcibly release the men. The
mayor deputized fifty men and ordered them to remain at the Jail throughout
the night.
The trouble is the culmination of a strike of laborers which began in the
plants of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company, the Youngstown Sheet
Iron Steel Company, and the Brier Hill Steel Company, independent concerns.
The men demanded twenty-five cent-s an hour. The companies' made an offer
of an increase from nineteen and a half to twenty-two cents.
The trouble started early this morning when strike sympathizers, and work
ers of the Sheet Tube Company's plant clashed. Stones were thrown and
several shots were fired but nobody was injured. Later in the afternoon a riot
occurred outside the tube company's plant. Two men were badly Injured.
The most serious trouble was started when the day shift left the Tube mills.
Six thousand congregated at the entrance of the works and stoned the private
police in charge of Chief Woltz who is said to have fired a blank shot in the
air to scare the crowd. Then firing became general. More than fifteen build
ings were destroyed and more than twenty families are reported homeless as
a result of the fire.
YOUNGSTOWN. Jan. 7. Nineteen were shot, four fatally, with scores of,
injured and flames menacing the business district of East Yungstown as a,
result of the steel mill strike riot. A wild mob is battling the fire companies,
who are attempting to check the flames which already caused a loss of $300,-1
ooo. !
Militia companies were rushed from nearby cities. The authorities tele
graphed the governor they were powerless to control the rioters. A mob of six
thousand formed at the entrance of the mills and jeered the day shift as it
left the plant. A number of workmen, many of whom are said to be strike
breakers, were stoned and beaten. A stone hit a mill guard who drew a revol
ver. Several guards fired at the mob, which fired answering shots. Men and
women fell wounded. The infuriated crowd applied the torch to buildings in
the neighborhood. They then turned to the business section, starting fires and
looting saloons and stores. '
First place fired was a two-story office building of a sheet tube plant. While
the flames gained headway the torch was applied to a small storehouse. Then
a part of the mob entered a saloon, looted the place and distributed the liquor
among the frantic foreigners, who applied the torch to a saloon. Flames
spread to an adjoining store. The crowd then began looting. Clothing and
jewelry were taken and distributed to the crowd. The firemen were summoned
and arrived, but before they could connect the hose to hydrants they were
driven away by the crowds. Many shots were fired. The firemen drove
away with their apparatus amid a hail of stones. By this time the flames
threatened to sweep the business section. Threats were made to burn the en
tire town. The Shoet Tube company and
all the available guards in an endeavor
property.
TROOPERS IN READINESS
YOUNGSTOWN. Jan. 7. The troops of Cleveland, Alliance, Akron, Bucyrus
and this city are held in readiness tonight to take charge of the steel mills
strike situation. Riots late this afternoon in which two me n. John Baker and
Stephen Gardner, were Injured so seriously they had to be taken to the hos
pital, led to the request being made to the governor that the guard be held
in readiness for trouble.
The announcement by four steel companies that they would grant a wage
Increase from nineteen and a half to twenty-two cents an hour failed to bring
peace terms. The three thousand laborers on strike demanded 25 cents an
hour. Late this afternoon a crowd of strikers and sympathizers gathered
about the entrance of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company's plant, and
a number of shots were fired across the river at the workshops. Whether any
one was injured Is not known.
ORDERS TROOPS MOBILIZED
COLUMBUS. Ohio. Jan. 8. Governor Willis tonight ordered two regiments
of Ohio National Guard to mobilize and be held in readiness to be sent to
Youngstown, where rioting among the striking steel workers is reported as
serious. The governor acted on the report of General John Speaks, sent to
Youngstown for an investigation of the strike, and who reported troops might
be needed to maintain order.
The governor immediately gent out a mobilization order. The Fifth regi
ment was ordered to mobilize at Cleveland and the Eighth at Bucyrus. A re
port from Youngstown received at the governor's office tonight said several
persons were shot, one fatally.
. .
a night of looting and arson, at the
in East Youngstown, is gradually being
the fear of another outbreak at daylight.
fifty building are destroyed. The streets
with clubs, and tearing out the. fronts j
solicitor, organized the citizen's armed
marrhwi on th rioters and tired a
other mills In the suburbs, marshalled i
to prevent the destruction of their
REPUBLICANS
MIX IN THE
Denunciation of German
Americans by Representa
tive Gardner of Massachu
setts Starts Wordy War.
THREE CONGRESSMEN j
ANSWER THE ATTACK I
Longsworth of Ohio, Cooper j
of Wisconsin, and Stafford
of Wisconsin, Term Speech j
Very Inopertune. i
WASHINGTON, Jan. 7. Hot crili-j
cism from three Republican colleagues
was drawn by Representative Gardner
of Massachusetts in the House, when
he attacked the German-Americans ,
during a speech on the proposals of
j a munitions embargo. , Representative
Stafford, of Wisconsin, joined the ,
criticism but just had time to de-l
clare Gardner's speech might be ex-:
I Pectea in the bntish I'arliament,
I - ii i lul
discussion.
Later Stafford apologized for what
bad been contrued as a reflection on
Gardner's Spanish War service, alter j
Moore, of Pennsylvania, had produced
his official record showing the Mas
sachusetts representative was pro
moted for bravery. No Democrats
joined the argument but divided ap
plause between Gardner and his
critics.
Gardner had left the House after
speaking. Stafford said there was no Germany Offers to Pay In
one with Teutonic blood in his veins demnity f or Americans Lost
but that sympathizes with the Father-! ; c m j r
la.id, but hat mere 'sympathy did not! n oea lragedy and Defines
conflict with' loyalty to the s"tars and ! position on submarine War.
Stripes. He said he was sure if the j
occasion arose the German-Americans j WASHINGTON. Jan. 7 The United
would show their loyalty, but not as j states received from Germany a pro-
some non e volunteers irom ew
England, in the Spamsh-Amencai
War. did when they enlisted "for that
little war against a little, crumbling
country, then after they had enlisted
had their mothers go and beg Cover-. Mediterranean would not torpedo no i-'
uor Wolcott, of Massachusetts, not tot combatant ships without warning, and j
"TVV'iliT" o,ljaPdinVotheparn:frsfnd.cre''
dress "reckless and intemperate". He
said he regretted he had made the j America and Germany are near a final
speech as it was not time to bring ; agreement on the conduct of submar
up questions that would flame th'jne warfare. Officials are gratified at
hatred in this country. the attitude Germany has apparently
"Amen," shouted "Cyclone" Davis,) assumed. Tension In the entire sub-
of Texas.
DE FACTO LEADER
DESERTS THE
General Hernandez, Formerly
Villa Officer and Later with
m O J f i
mnT9 I mnn nt i
ZT j r CU-Y U., U:il. I
Men Into Chihuahua "ills.
EL PASO, Jan. 7. General Hernan-j
dez declared himself independent of i
the de facto government, according to j
Santa Rosalia reports . Carranza sourc
es admitted his desertion from Santa
Rosalia into the Chihuahua mountains
v.;th a ban dof followers. They were
reticent regarding the cause. Hernan-
dez was formerly a ilia officer and i lng of tne per9ia and are much broad
joir.ed Carranza after the occupation er m PCOpe than the promises after
of Torreon. 1 ; the Lusitania disaster covering the
A troop train was dispatched over i operations of submarines in the North
the Mexico-Northwestern to Casas i
Grandes. The first train, bearing min- j
ing men back to their mines was sent j
south filled. The mining district in j
western Chihuahua reports a thousand
Carranza troops as arriving at Minaca. !
Wire communications on the Mexico-j
Northwestern are obstructed by
grounded wires at Pearson. The con-1
dition of Iluerta is practically un-j
changed.
TONY LIMPKIN'S "HANG-OUT"
CLOSED BY AUTHORITIES
LONDON. Jan. 7. The "Three Pig
eons," one of England's oldest and
most famous inns, and the sole exist
ing tavern of Elizabethan times, was
closed in accordance with a movement
of temperance leaders to restrict theiirents were closed and even street
number of licenses to inns. The inn
perhaps had more literary association
than any other English tavern.
SINKING OF LINfctt
. ftfcTi .... ' L ' - r
1 K vreE "PERSIA $ j
L ! EGYPT. cU TO Y . . f
Robert McNeely and map showing when Persia wa sunk.
Once again American relations with Austria are strained, this time by
reason of the sinking of the liner Persia by a submarine and the consequent
loss of many lives, including that of Robert McNeely, American consul at
Aden, Arabia. The sinking, of the Persia without warning, just after
Austri: had yielded tc American demands in the Ancona case, makes the
situation all the mors serious. Baron Zwiedinek, representing Austria at
Washington, has asked the American people to suspend judgment until
after all the facts are known Complete conriderjce prevails in Teutonic
diplomatic circles that if an Ai.slran ub.iiarine sank the Persia without
warning the act would b:- riaio-ved uromptly. reparation made for Amer
ican lives and the submarine commander severely nurished.
Mr. McNeely at lie tim? r.f the' iisat-r oi: l:is wav to his first
consular pot. l.V nr,o; to the A!!ri wsulate in October 191.
Ke was Imm' in
No
M on i f e X '
1D0U to lyi'J
i.ii-..i.',2r
; tQ &a in(,erani h .
1 Aniericans lost on tne Liisitania a d
I the assurances that German submar-'
ine commanders operating ia the
j negotiations. It is considered that
marine question is lessened.
Austria, having assured the United
States of its intentions to jperat-?
i submarines la regard to international I
! law, and the principles of humanity,
Bulgaria and Turkey, it is understood.
will next take steps to give such j
guarantees. It i authoritatively stat-
ed that Germany and Austria will use
! influence to accomplish this.
The Lusitania controversy, except
! for the wording of the agreement to
j be made, is considered in Teutonic
circles as virtually ended. Germany, j
.u., , '..
itiuie uiirrniK iu pa; i-iut-iuini;, uinnr-i
the reservations that no admission of
wroyguoing is invuiveu.
It' is contended the Lusitania was
ii 1 1 n 1' a a a. . t rtlni.al fn, tho
"" " - v -' ......
British blockade of Germany. While
Secretarv ,s understood not
to have indicated to Ambassador von
Bernstorff whether the proposal is
satisfactory, a number of officials in
position to be familiar with the Ame
rican attitude indicted it would
be I
accepted.
The assurances' regarding submar
ine warfare in the Mediterranean
were abviously prompted by the ink-
Sea and adjacent waters. Information;
regarding the circumstances of the
Persia's sinking are still lacking. m
j ,
CHRISTMAS IN RUSSIA
PKTROGRAD. Jan. 7. The war has .
been relegated to second place for the ,
time being in the minds of the Russian .
people by holiday festivities in which j .
they are now obsoi bed. Notwithstand-, .
countless broken family circles ther?
is much of the old peace lime being j
manifested in the various observances ,
of the season, both of a social and a,
religious nature.
Business came to a standstill at 6
o'clock Christmas Kve (yesterday) for
a three days cessation. Today the
newspapers were not issued, govern
ment offices and industrial establish-
cars stopped running for the holiday '
The churches were crowded with
shippers.
The churches were crowded with
LU S ITAN I A CASE
llnill TIIAHAIIT I
nuw hi
ENDEO
a
liENS'.VS CRITICAL SITUATION WITH AUSTRIA
-'.hrr :fH". aid'his home was in
of the X.iitd Cini'i. legislature fivia
KERMEEN REPRIEVED.
PHOENIX, Jan. 7 At the last
moment W. W. Kermeen, the
slayer of J. F. Harrell In Blsbee,
was reprieved until March 10
by the board of pardons and pa
roles in order that a further
test of his sanity may be made.
TODAY
Last and Most Important SeS-
sion of Congress wUI be
Held. Many Feel that Last
ing Good Has Resulted.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 7. The Pan
American Scientific Congreas will end
tomorrow with a final general sessioa.
1
1
MEET
It will act on the various resolutionn, ! s'sned to weaken the pressure of the
one of the most important of which is:Te"ton In the Balkans, and incident-
I that originating in the international
i! . - .
lair vcftinn and nrenared hv th e-
, . .. . r. . ,
ecutive committee. It is expected to
deal with the new Pan-Americanism
frequently discussed during the con
gress. The principal social feature
was the reception by the President
and his wife tonight to the delegates
and other visitors.
Ti, prsiHenfa uneech nrnnosine a 1
The Presidents speecn. proposing a ,
oser cooperation of Central and ;
Snn.h imeriran retiuhllcs. deenlv im-
-
Pressed 1 the subject:,
a. - , -j
senators. Many say the plan to hav
tl.O A Til T i PH H
nations guarantee rue
"
political independence and territorial, of ,hese nave been of tne 8maner
integrity of each other and enter into!.'
agreements to settle boundary
d's-l
pues and prohibit the organization of
revolutionary expeditions from one
countrv against another might so in
prove the conditions in thet smaller re
publics that the United States never
again would be required to offer even
financial protection.
NATION WIDE IS SEARCH
ST. PAUL. Jan. 7. Nation
wide search was begun for the
robbers who dynamited the
vault of the local Internal Rev
enue office and escaped , with
approximately JU5.000 in nego;
liable Internal revenue stamps
and about $3,00 In currency,'
Authorities in the surrounding
towns and virtually every large
city were asked to co-operate In
the search for the robbers, who
are believed to have removed
the loot in an automobile.
The high urice of food has not seem
ed to curtail the celebration since the
people, because of better wages, and
he establishment of extravagances in
wor-'other directions, have been
aul;e in Chri-tnias luxuries.
wor-'other directions, have been able to
iTVZ? " - - i t
FbOIVIBAR DMENT
i OF AUSTDIAIIS
i TERRIBLE !
r
Russians Concentrated F i r e ;
t of Four Hlin4rpr1 flimm rn '
Cznernowitz before the in-
fantry Made Its Attack.
lu.miu.n, Jan. conveying some
; idea of the nature of the Russian :
t blow on the Bessarabian front. Petro-'
'grad dispatches state that for fifty
! hours the Russians concentrated four
:ti.i ..t,i '.. .i...
I hundred guns on the Austrian posi-
tiom at Czernowit. as a preparation tain ,0 go sinc( ,he pubIifa,ion of tn
for the infantry's attack. The com- list of 20 car owners in the Review are
munication does not claim that Czern- Gerald Sherman. John Treu. William
owitz has fallen. ;Minsen. Andy Johnson and Mark P.
German sources admit the Teutonic Jonn- Those stating that' they are
position is critical. It is not clear P'annins to go and will do so if possl
whether the Russian operations herald D,e to rrange matters, in addition to
a big general offensive from the Bal-.,n "'ready published list are Joe Wal
tic to the Rumanian border or are de-!ker. of the Shattuck company. Harry
"' on lne ,taIlan rront-
i Tha fi . ; H-nd r . . . v. : , . ....
"w..B mr mu
character, according to Austrian and
i Russian reports. Few prisoners were
; taken. The infantry engagement's
(were largely hand to hand encounters,
:The Russian operations are being
'pressed along the railway lines which
I simplify the problems of a winter
supply of food.
in munition anit f i i.il
" ' -
,t ,s comparat,vejy qulrt on otner
front, . :
' . .
ne loss OI a lintisn SUOmanne Dy,.:ra . In Rnr1rlant Rnnto im-
of nMon -ejo - JXtiasU
on ,ne jjutcn coast makes a total oi
eIeven British submarines lost si'ice
th. beeinnine of the war. The maiori-
mr ur ii ui uir r. lie uiajui i-
types.
An echo of General Hamilton's sur-1
Vey of the Dardanelles operations was
found in the report published that
General Stopford. who was recalled
on account of his conduct in the
Snvla Hv oneratinn.4. ilenianiieI an
Inquiry by the War Office into the In ord,r ,hRt reservations may be.
whole circumstances of the landing m"dp for ,n' P"' Heming it is es
of troops at the Dardanelles. sential that Secretary Gray be inform-
An Athens dispatch indicates that d no r oin nd how inany ,hM
imi i. foit ih. in rnniKipiinn m-tih1"! be in each car. It is his purpose
.'submarine activities in Mediterranean i
owing to the fact that none of the
,inine ships, laden with grain purchased
.lin America, have either arrived or
. have been signalled.
CALLS IT "MASSACRE"
BERLIN. Jan. 7. According to the!
'Over Seas News Agency, Major Mor- Iran's have already stated that they
'aht. the TagehlaM's military expert.1 will take their wives and there are in-
says: "There was a Neroian trait indications that the fair sex will be well
,the ferocious massacres produced In ; represented.
the Russian ranks by their attacks in I Any entrants who have extra seats
Bessarabia. The Austrian positions in their cars are asked also to notify
are extremely strong. St. Petersburg the secretary of the Commercial Club
'say.j the twenty-four wire defenses are 'of that fact and they mill be aided in
charged with a high tension electrical ; completing the party as several bio
current, making approach impossible." , ness men. not fortunate enough to be
Moraht considers the attack feeble j car owners, are desirous of joining the
in coroparifon win the enomiou Rus-, party.
fian resources. He expesses the opin-j -
Ion that the Russian military organi
zation works badly after the blows it
received on the so-called glorious r?-
in-;treat from Galicia. Toland and four
land.
iEL PASO KILL
FETE PEOPLE
STATE
El Paso Chamber of Com-
! r- r
incite jiaaei uig r repara
tion for Entertaining Ari
zona AutoUts Next Friday.
BULL FIGHT FEATURES
ON PROGRAM FOR DAY
More Entries to the Motorcade.
Had from Bisbee and Doug
las Responds with About
Ten Cars.
. EL PASO. Jan. 7. When Arizo
na comes to town on rubber
wheels next Friday noon to upend
twenty-four hours in El Paso, they
will be met on the Borderland
Rome by a crowd of El Paso auto
i.xts. will be escorted into town by
the local auto fans and will be en
tertained every minute of the
time they are here.
The Chamber of Commerce, of
which the Auto Club is now a part,
is planning for the big reception
and entertainment to be given for
the Warren District automobilists
who come representing the Com
mercial Club. A smoker is cne. of
the things which is being planned
for tbem Friday ni.sht and a bull
fight will be arranged for them in
the afternoon if the railroad is re
paired sufficiently to get the bulls
from the Bustilles Ranch.
Auto rides over the city, dances
at the country club and maneuvers
at the fort are somo of the things
Secretary Fraser is working on to
entertain the Arizona visitors.
I
Still further additions were made to
,he en,ran,!' nd prospective entrauts
frr ,l EI PfO excursion yesterdav.
T1 . . , ...
Those who declared themse ves as cer-
Hanninser. and G. 1,. Davidson,
Reports of good progress came yes-
terday from Oscar Goll of the Douglas
phdmk.. nr i v, ...
v ...... x ..
He said that
at least 10 cars would line up and
start from the Smelter City. One of
the first entrants there wa the firm
of Hood & Bledsoe, both J. T. Hood
and Frank Bledsoe having determined
to go. Tombstone still stands with an
entry of three cars arid newsnaDer ad-
.. : r t-
" '" " awakening
.
' , m
"'V i-n- to i.iose wno ae-
generally was the letter from Lamar
Cobb, the state engineer, in which he
. ...
" r ... ,
panied on the trip by the s ate engi
to be accom-
neer of New Mexico. James A. French.
It is believed that his making the trip
will result in substantial road improve
ments in Southern New Mexico as tl'ie
need is brought directly to his inten
tion.
lo '"ke up the matter or reservations
'here the day before the start is made
' I-" a'fo his purpose to send to
?he El Paso Chamber of Commerce
anJ th El Paso papers at the samer
time the personnel of the party.
The excursion will by no means be
a "stag" affair. Several of the en-
NO VERDICT LAST NIGHT.
NEW YORK. Jan. 7 The jury in
the case of the New Haven's former
directors is locked up. No verdict
as reached.
1
