9999.sss--ssssssssi-ssssss-ssi-s--issw-r-11'--11111111 ., , niS
B tfurn jfflB2SIL '" wPkTH
991 VCW 9U 9H
IE"! Cl)e fbgrni Hqrablfr mi. Hr ' 11
9m ---- - i ---------. I--...., , mmj
IE EIGHT PAGES LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH SATURDAY JANUARY 8 1916 " H
99 ---------------- THIRTEENTH YEAR 99-
I TABERNACLE COMPLETED
t AFTER A THOROUGH RE-
MODELING THROUGHOUT
9 Stake Presidency has arranged for
m' Grand Musical Concert for Friday
m afternoon and evening, January 14.
M What has been done to building.
JH Tho stako Tabernacle, Logan's
l'9J largo cliurch cdlllce, which has been
9Jt out of uso tor several months, owing
91 to tho tact that tho building has
9J been undergoing a remodeling, Is
9j once moio ready lor public uso again,
H tho entire Interior ot tho building has
B been romodeled. Tho nrat affair to
bo held In tho tabernacle January
9 if, at which tlmo tho stako olllders
X Uavo arranged for a grand musical
H concert, consisting of local and lm-
9 ported talent. An afternoon and eve-
91 nlng performance will bo given on
9J that dato. Tho proceeds of tho con-
(9 cert will go tn assist in defraying the
9J expense of reconstructing tho build-
mt ing.
uB Tho building bad been condemned
9j on account of Insufficient exists. The
9 galleries bad no exits on tho east
9 end at all. Whllo tho changing of tho
9 exlts was compulsory, it was thought
9 tho proper thing to modcrnlzo tho en-
9 tiro building and wo glvo herewith a
9 description of tho work that has been
9 dono on our stako building:
9 Tlio main stairs Instead ot being
9 eight foet in width are now 16.5
foet. Tho side stairs or wost exits
9J from tho gallery wero originally 4
9 feet in width, with the landing at
a n0 oxtremo west end and on a high
J' er levol than the new stairs. These
fm stairs are now six feet in width and
M termlnato dlrctly at tho front doors.
9J Tho rear stairs aro now fully 7
9J foet in width and In direct line to
J9J tho doom without any turns. All tho
flj stairs arc of reinforced concrete with
9J mason safety tread and cork carpet
9 treads.
fl Tho choir stand has been changed
9 to circular lines, closing tho entranco
fl on tho cast. Upholstered opera
chairs tako tho placo of the old wood
j9J en benchos. Tho rock vat(s under
H tho tower originally projecting in the
9j west gallery havo been removed, tho
HJ uppor walls aro hold In placo by
pH heavy steel boams encased In con
9 croto, tho posts aro 12 Inches steel
9j (iiaunel and plato columns. This now
I SOUTH CACHE
I HIGH SCHOOL
i NEWS NOTES
rv - -
WM Urum, Jan. 3.
9 School reopened after two weeks
I vacation. Present indications of tho
faculty and students show the har
monious attltudo for tho school ad
ancemont and making 1910 a banner
J ear. An advisory system has boon
adopted, taken from tho Dosio High
School and rovlsod to suit tho needs
of tho school.
Tho systom of rules aro carotully
considered and executed by tho
faculty, although entlroly now It
will undoubtedly provo ono of tho
greatest movements in bringing tho
teacher, student and parent, together
In a moro sympathetic and closer re
lationship of school progression.
Tho rules as adopted by tho South
Cacho High -School.
A 1. To becomo as familiar as pos
I slblo with tho achoolastlo record ot
fjfljv, every pupil assigned to his advisory
9k boforo tlmo for tho torm enrollment
HH to begin.
9B - To become so Intimately ac
HJE qualntod with each pupils onvior
1 meats, his llkos and djsllkes, his
9J ambitions and doslres, that vocation
99 nI Buldanco may bo given intelligent
Hly.
99 3, To become, acquainted as nearly
99 nB posslblo with, the paronts.'of all
99hls advisory and consult with the
9 paronta'' either by visit org lotter,
BJ (Continuedfoa Pago Eight)
99
space Is provided with coats and
will be tho best part of tho gallery.
All exit doors nro provided with
panic bolts, no doors can bo locked
from tho lnaUlo. Tho clectilc light
ing sstem has been entirely recon
structed, every lino Is In conduit, ex
cept tho circuits In the attic which
trie accessible at any time. Tho cir
cuits aic controlled from the boiler
tooni us well as from the cabinet In
tho dressing room.
Tho celling has been changed to
an ornamental plaster eel Ing with
tho panels cohered with sheatlng and
then painted. All wainscots In the
halls and stairs aro sheatlng and then
painted. Tho heating hns been re
constructed, additional radiation hav
ing been placed on tho wost cud and
tho radiators have been removed
from tho center of tho hall.
A ventilating system has been In
stalled with a large fan In the boil
er room, taking tho air through tho
registers In front of the stand into a
2 12- feot by 4 feet galvanized Iron
duct on tho celling of tho basoment
then through the fan into the ex
haust which terminates above tho
roof of tho vestry. This system will
change the air In tho auditorium ap
proximately1 twice every hour and
should eliminate the custom ot open
ing the windows. The duct Is so
arranged that tho "-basement can also
bo ventilated. '
It is tho Intention to paint tho out
side of the building. The tower, cor
nices and windows, together w Ith tho
stono trimming around tho windows,
will be painted whtto to harmonlzo
with tho terra cotta entranco.
Tho tabernacle with theso changes
has been remodeled In such a way
that It should servo tho purposes ot
Cacho stake for a long tlmo.
Tho contractors on this work wero
Ollf Nelson, J. E. Coult & Son, for
tho painting; Alfred Palmer & Sons
for tho heating and ventilating; Tho
Logan City Municipal Electric Plant
Installed tho electric fixtures. Tho ar
chitect was K. C. Schaub.
WELLSVILLE TO
MEELONEIDA
Tho Wollsvlllo Athlotic Club will
play tho fust Onolda Stako Academy
team at Wollsvlllo Saturday night.
This promises to bo ono ot tho fast
est games of tho season as Wolls
lllo has twice trimmed tho South
Cacho team of Hyrum, and overwhel
mingly trimmed Richmond Inst Trl
day night. Tho Onolda team bolng a
trlflo hcavlor and moro experienced
should tako th gamo from Wellsvlllo
but tho Wollsvlllo fans aro optimistic
about tho results whllo Preston also
oxpocts to win. Tho gamo will bo
played on tho Wellsvlllo floor and
this should aid Wellsvlllo aso. Thcro
wll bo a grand ball after the gamo
in honor of tho visitors. Tho gamo
will bo called at 8:30. Como and seo
tho best gamo of tho season.
Tho Big 4 Stock Company is meet
ing with groat success throughout tho
different cities of Cacho county. They
aro carrying with them an up to date
lino of playors and havo given ox
tromely good satisfaction In the cit
ies they havo been In. Tho company
Is now on its way through Idaho,
and will again come back to Cache
Valloy In tho early spring. Adv.
Tho U. A. 0. Woman's Club will
hold their first meeting, slnco tho
holiday season on Monday January
10,' at tho homo of Mrs. F. W.
Thatchor.
4
i , fc ,
BLUNDERS IN WAR MANAGEMENT CAUSE
BREACH IN BRITISH POLITICAL TRUCE
ia L twj lBP u "I9999kC i H A 99H999lPYP999rIV9999.
v 9'J 99' i 999 i Tl Ji Jh4$4, "v rS4 "5o 9Ev M : i -
xr 99P999r KStCKAxiML J 99 9999999 999999999999999999 99m 9I 599wFa 99991
kC A 99999999--M T-tefyArCs'taB 99999r W & 9n99l oiu
&? ti 9999999999jt wiW $" tv999999i -999999999999999999999991 , & 9fjTW 73
f 99J99 f' -Ti''9r 99T 9a9999999999li 1. Rf5'
I KJP59T"li'99999999WH:ifl? Jr 9999999K99999999999999999ff99999999999i Tr . i, r P99l
Photo ot Lord ,NorthcilfTo (No. 1) by American I'reau ARSoclation.
IThe UnttM) Klncdom now wltnossis a Rsneral jtMiidonmcnt of tho truco between the polltlcnl inrlles, which was observed
during the early months of tho war ar J which apparently was cemented for tho duration of the w or when tho coalition gov
ernment was formed. There la a steail growth of tho newspaper attacks on tho government, tho general burden of
which Is the slowness, the lack ot fotvIiiht, ami decision, and tho mismanagement ot tho Dardanelles enterprises. While
all newspapers disclaim partisan motive all the more prominent journals participating In the opposition belong to th.
Consenattve party, with tho exception ot thu Manchester Guardian. Tho newspapers generally hold Premier Asqulth
responsible for the conduct of affairs The J.ord N'orthcllrfe group, hended by tho Times and tho Dally Mall, now as,
heretofore the most bitter critics of the AsaU'th government, with tho support of tho Morning Post, was Joined by the
Observer, which Is the foremost Runday twpvr of London, and the Referee, which has a largo following among the
masses David l.loyd-Oeorge Is the leading candidate advanced for succession, but other prominent Ilrltons. sucn as Vis
count Haldane, former secretary of state for war: Lord Curxon, former viceroy of India, were also mentioned. In the
picture No t H Lord Nnrthcllffe; No. 2, Ixrd Haldane: No 2. Lord Curxon: No. 4. Lloyd-Oeorge: No. (. Asqulth.
BAKER CHILD
GIVEN BURIAL
ATMENDON
Other New Items From the Lively
Little Town On the West
Side
Mondon, Jan. 7. Funeral sorvlcos
over tho remains of tho seven months
old baby of Mr. and Mrs. A. M.
Uaker wore hold at their residence
on Thursday.
Mrs. H. B. Whltnoy entertained
raombers of her family with dinner
on Tuesday. Covers wero laid for
twelvo guests.
Tho basketball players aro firing
up tho amusement hall for basketball
this wlntor.
Mr. Irvln Larson spent tho week
ond visiting In Pocatello.
Miss Elslo Smith of Logan spent a
fow days In Mcndon and was tho,
guest of Miss OUvo Sorenscn whllo
here.
Mrs. J. A. Gardner entortnlned at
dinner on Wednesday. Coorg woro
laid for ten guests.
Tho old folks hold their reunion on
Tuesday. They all met In tho am
usomont hall In tho morning, at 12
o'clock thoy all went over to tho
old mooting houso whoro a dollclous
dinner was sot boforo them, after
dinner thoy again went to tho
amusement hall whoro tho following
program wbb ronddred:
Singing by tho Congregation
Prayor Joromlah Baker
Recitation Llzzlo Barrett
Mandolin and Guitar music
.... H. B. Whltnoy and J. A.
Gardnor.
Vocal Solo Luclllo Hardman
Address Bishop M. I). Bird
Piano Solo Esther Soronson
Talk by tho Chairman ot the Hyrum
Stako Old Folks Committee.
Solo Ethol Sorcnsen
Thero was a danco In tho amusoment
hall at night for tho old and young,
Mrs. J, C. Sorcnsen entortalned
with dinner on Friday. Covors wero
laid for twejvo guests.
Miss OUvo Soronen spent Saturday
and Sunday In Brlgham City.
The meeting -Sunday evening was
occupied by tho,Mutuals, at- which
tho followltiK program was rondored:
Story ....... i Jennie Richards
Vocal Solo J. C. Sorenscn
Reading H. B. Whltnoy
Male Quartet.. Arnold Garner and Co
Tho danco Friday night was a
grand success, v hero ovcryono danc
ed trie old year out and tho Now
Year In.
Miss Flora Watklns1 of Brlgham
City spent a woek In Mendon sit
ing relatives.
Misses Nolllo and Martha Lallls of
Salt Lake City aro visiting with
their sister Mrs. P. R. Bird.
NORTH CACHE
HIGH SCHOOL
NEWS NOTES
Richmond, Jan, 7, Tho holidays
aro ovor with and tho students of
tho North Cacho High School aro
back at work again. Tho way thoy
aro going at tholr work shows that
thoy aro going to mako oery day
count for something during tho rest
of tho school year.
Tho students woro especially clatod
to leunr that tho North Cacho High
School had beon successful In win
ning tho Christmas story contest,
thoroby getting tho beautiful sllor
trophy given by tho Logan Journal,
for tho threo best Christmas stories,
Tho studonts who brought tho lion
or to tho school aro: Ireno Nelson,
Wilson Thornloy and Wondoll Thom
son. Tho Maroon staff has been busy
this weok gottlng out tho matorlal
for tho January numlior which will bo
ready for distribution tho first of
noxt woek.
Tho principal topic at school this
week has been tho basketball gamo
to bo playod with tho South Cache
High School on Friday night. Tho
team under Coach Plant has boon
drilling hard for somo tlmo and there
seems to bo no question as to tho
outcome of tho gamo.
Tho dramatic studonts havo beon
putting In somo hard work during
tho weok getting ready for the try
out which will bo held tho first part
of noxt weok. Tho play which has
been soloctod this yoar Is Tho Touch
Down. It Is a college play, full of
Ufa and ono 4hat appeals to overy
body. ! ,n f m vt
CONSTITUTION
OF THE TAXPAY
ERS LEAGUE
Whereas, tho undersigned, all of
whom aro taxpa)ors In Cucho Coun
ty, Utah, doslro to form a lenguo for
tho purposes hereinafter sot forth, do
now declaro as follows:
1. That all porsons who aro tax
payers, regardless of political affilia
tions or creed, shall bo eligible to
membership In this organization up
on signing tho Constitution and pay
ing tho membership foe hereinafter
sot forth.
2. Tho organization Bhall consist
of a County Exocutlvo Commltteo,
composed of ono member from each
town, or taxpaylng district In Cacho
County, Utah, which said County Ex
ocutlvo Cornmltto shall elect a presi
dent, vico president, of tho lenguo,
a secretary nud treasurer thorcof,
who shall hold olllco for tho term of
ono year; and until their successors
aro eloctcd and qualified; members
of tho County Exocutlvo Committee,
except tho llrst, shall bo elected by
the mombors of tho Leaguo residing
In tho several towns and taxpaylng
districts of Cncho County, und tho
members of tho Lenguo residing In
tho toeral towns and taxpaylng dis
tricts may effect local organizations
tn tholr sovoral localities.
3. For tho purposo of dofraylng tho
oxpenscs1 of tho Leaguo each mem
bor shall bo required to pay annual
ly 50 cents tho first nnd nnnual dues
for 1910, to bo paid upon subscribing
to this Constitution and becoming n
member ot tho Leaguo.
4. Tho purposes for which tho
Leaguo Is formed shall bo as folio wb:
(a) . To socuro as far as tho samo
may bo reasonably posslblo a Just
and equitable distribution of tho bur
dens of taxation upon all tho cltl
zona of tho State, and to that end
wo declaro a comprohonslvo revision
of all of tho laws of tho Stato rolat
Ing to taxation should bo had and ob
tained, such revision to bo mado af
ter a study and investigation has
boon mado of tho systom of taxation
employod In tho several states
throughout tho Union and thereby so-
t V t
t (Continued on Pago EJght)
LORENZO HULSE I
ANSWERS CALL I
TO OTHER SIDE I
rSBj
Smlthflold, Jan G 1 M
Mr Lorenzo llulao of tlila city, 1 ,'9J
died Monday January 3. Ills death I 9H
,is duo to nuart troublo which ho 9 jH
ban boon afflicted with for a long 9
time Mr. Hulso was horn In Tall 9 9J
Ither, Mass., on July H, 1S5: and 9J 9J
moved from there to Philadelphia and 9J 9H
afterwards with his parents to Salt 9J flH
Lnko Clt. Ho and Ills family havo 9J 9H
lived here for tuo lust twenty years. 9J 91
Ho lenves a wlfo ami seven children 9J H
four brothors and four sisters to 99 9
mourn his loss. l'unornl services 9 9
was held over his remains on Thurs- 9 99
day nt 2 p. nr. In tho Second ward 9J
Tnbornaclo. H 99J
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Johnson nn- 9J 99J
noiinco tho engagement of their 99 99
daughter Mlnirlo to Preston T. Jcpp- 9l 99
son of Logan. Tho marriage" will 9JI 99
lnko placo nt tho Jcppson residence 91 s99l
on Saturday morning, January 8. 91 99J
Tho joung couple will spend their 99 99
hunu)moou nt Salt Lako City. 91 99
Pioneer moctlng will ho held Jnt 9Bf s99l
tho homo of Mrs. Josoplr J. Richard ' 99 1 99l
son on January 12. Tho ..program '9 99J
will bo as follows: '' 99 99
Paper Mrs. Hllzabcth Raymond 99 99J
Song .... Mrs Eva Powers and Co. 9J 99J
Story Mrs. Mary Griffith 9 99
R. N. Hilt at Bolso who Is 'auto 99
mohllo wholcsalo sales1 ngcut for tho 9J 99
Studobakor Bros Company, of Idaho, 99 99J
nnd Oregon districts Is visiting rola- 9J 99
99 99J
Elder S II . Blgolow just returned 99 '99l
from tho cast wlicro ho was laboring ' 9J 99
as a missionary, wns in our" city on 9J -99
Wednesday paying Hldor Eugono ;99l
Merrill a visit on his way to. his 9 3
homo In Canada. j99l
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Colpln, a for 9 H
mor business man of till placo was 9 '99J
hero visiting friends this weok. l''n
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Stain of Salt , 999
Lako City spent n fow days this 99
week at the homo ot Mr. Niels Gyl- t D99
lenskog, ' 99
Born to Mr, and Mrs; .Marrlne'r; 999J
Roskclloy on Dccombor 29, a flno" ;: 999
baby girl and on December 31,,n.boy ' 999J
to Mn and Mrs. Wall Raymond. 99J
ANSWER WANTED I
BY SCHOOLMAN ' I
AND TAXPAYER .
t 99991
In tho artlclo "Tho Tax Question, Ib991
by Ono Who Knows," published., in 999J
tho Inst lssuo of tho Republican ex 999J
Commissioner Cronqutst makes tho 999J
statement that, "Tho best facts wo 999J
havo shown conclusively that moro 999J
than 80 per cent ot tho tax monoy 99
goes to tho 9991
In a very excellent and instructive 99991
talk on tho question, "Tho part of f999
tho tax monoy used for school pur- 19999
poses," given by County Supt. R. V. Bi
Larson, In tho taxpayers convention B99J
a very accurate statement was given. 9T
This statement found spaco In both H 99
Logan papers. Tho talk was charac- B 91
torlzed by facts, tho proof of which 9'rl
was clearly given. It was thought V l
hardly concolvablo that such a stato- 9 9
ment as tho ono roforrcd to In tiro 9:99
last Issue, would appear, epeclally un !r!9l
dor tho label of facts. V!?9H
If tho writer of tho abovo montlon- lu'i
ed artlclo Is in posstsslon of proof 9i9H
for his assertions, that would mako M91
thorn facts, would ho kindly publish 19J
thorn thoroby giving us something I ,99
substantial on which to baso our con 1 99
elusions. 1 tfj9
A SCHOOLMAN AND
TAXPAYER. '99
BASKETBALL II
GAME BETWEEN I
B. YU. L. H. n
Tho Brlgham Young College basket H
ball team will go up against the fast 9
Salt LaUo High School team tonight 9999
at T o'clock. Tho game was origin 99B
rtlly called for last night but in or- !
dor that tho Salt Lako team might HI
play, Preston, tho, charigo in datoai V
had to bomado. 999
The Collogo team sis ' any 999
rContlnned oa Pago Eight) qtj; 99l
. . (M
-, . .. . vi
