The Telegraph Secures Most Important 7
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXIV— No. 2
RUM-MAD MOB
KILLS IN RIOT AT
YOUNGSTOWN
Three Regiments of Ohio National Guard Rushed to
Scene by Governor to Prevent Further Outbreaks and
Protect Fire-Swept City; One Dead, a Hundred
Wounded and Property Loss of $1,000,000 Toll of
Drink-Crazed Strikers
Lonely Shot Leads to Volley From Small Band of Guards;
Rioters Reply and Immediately After Start Fires;
Stores, Saloons, Post Office and Bank Looted in Light
of Burning Buildings; Fire Companies Are Forcibly
Held Back
By Associated press
Youngstown, Ohio. Jan. 8. —Fearing
a new outbreak of rioting this morn
ing when a crowd of strike sympa
thizers gathered on the hill opposite
the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Com
pany plant. Brigadier-General John C.
Speaks ordered four Cleveland militia
companies of the Fifth Regiment to
the strike scene. Two companies
marched into the plant to reinforce
100 strike guards and two other com
panies patrolled the opposite hill to
prevent the. mob organizing. Op
erations at the mill are entirely sus
pended to-day and no attempt was
made to operate it.
Three hundred office employes are
marooned in the plant, where they
spent the night for safety and to keep
lires going.
Hy noon to-day virtually every com
pany of the three regiments compris
ing the Second Brigade of the Ohio
Xational Guard ordered here for strike
duty was either in the city or its sub
urbs. The mobilization of the Fifth,
Eighth and Fourth Regiments was
accomplished in record time.
The Fourth Regiment will Vie kept
on itfs train outside (he city until it is
needed. Its forces can be on the scene
in forty-tive minutes if necessary.
Ready to Blow Bridge
Led by Mayor A. U, Stougli, 200 citi
zens of Struthers village, which lies
across the Mahoning river opposite
East Youngstown, have armed them
selves and massed on the bridge lead
ing across the river ready to repel a
threatened invasion of strikers. The
men are armed with rifles and re
volvers. A charge of fifty pounds of
dynamite has been placed beneath the
bridge and a wire made ready to Carry
a current to set off the blast and blow
up the bridge the moment a mob starts
across. A notice has been posted to
this effect and all persons warned
away from the bridge. Damage to
property had been threatened' in
Struthers.
Rioting Started
General Speaks has received an ap
peal from citizens of Struthers to send
help at once to that village for pro
tection from rioting there. The mes
sage stated that a niob has formed
and is engaged in a general tight in
the streets, men shooting and beating
tip each other. General Speaks at once
sent two companies of militia to
Struthers in automobiles.
Later reports said that the situation
at Struthers was under control, but
troops will be kept on duty there to
prevent further trouble.
The civic and military authorities
now believe that for the present at
least, an end has been put to the wild
scenes of rioting and looting which
marked last night and left the thriving
little city a mass of embers. One life
is known to have been lost, fully ten
blocks of the town, including the en
tire business section, were burned and
several thousand persons were driven
from their homes. The property dam
age was placed at no less than
$1,000,000.
Physicians who were called to look
after the wounded placed the number
at a hundred, although only fifteen
had been brought to hospitals here.
While the majority had been shot,
there were many wounds from knives,
bearing out the statement that when
the rioters were finally driven from
Wilson avenue, the main street of the
town, they began fighting among them
selves.
W anted Increase
Two weeks ago laborers of the Re
public Iron and Steel Company struck
for an increase of wages from to
25 cents an hour. The Youngstown
Sheet and Tube Company offered them
22% cents an hour immediately after
the United States Steel Corporation
had announced its increase of 10 per
THEWEAfHEIt
For llnrrlthorK nnil vicinity! Fair,
continued cold to-utuht, with
lowest temperature nlimit IK de-
Krcexi Sunilny, fnir, sliKhtlv
warmer.
For Enntrrn Pennaylvnnln: Fair
tn-ulicht nnil Sunday, with alutv-
Iy rlsinK temperature; gentle to
moderate northeast to southeast
WIIKIM.
Hirer
The Ninqiiplinnnn river and all Ita
branches will full Indefinitely. V
Vatagc of H.S feet la Indicated for
Hurrlslmrtt Sunday iiiiirnlnu.
General Conditions
Prcaaure IIHB Incrensed ovt the
caatcm nnd decreased over the
western part of the countrv dur-
InK the lust twenty-four honra. It
la hlgbcMt over the I'pper Jit.
I.awrenee Valley nnd lowest over
Hrltlah Columbia.
It waa I to 24 degrees colder tlila
morning smith nnd eaat of the
t;reat I.nkes, Including; the West
tiolf Region. Over nearly all the
remainder of the country there
has been n irencrnl rise of 2 to 2a
drum's In temperature.
I'emperatorei R a. in., is.
Sun: Rises 7:28 a. m.t sets, 4i3«
l». m.
, JI'IOIII New moon, first qunrter,
January 11. 10:3* a. in.
River Stave i 0.3 feet above
low-water mark.
Yesterday'a Weather
Richest temperature, 20.
I,owes! temperature, 23.
Mean temperature, 28.
Annual temperature, 20,
cent, for laborers. This was rejected
by the workers and the strike lias
since been in progress. Reports to-day
are prevalent that strike-breakers had
been imported, which precipitated the
trouble.
Mayor Carroll Thornton, of Youngs-
I town, two miles from the burned town,
■ was expected to issue an order to-day
j closing all saloons in the city, while
. arrangements were being made to re
strict and perhaps prohibit the sale of
firearms if the military did not act.
There was no liquor question to settle
in East Youngstown. for of the twenty
saloons all but two had been burned,
and they had been looted.
The trouble began late yesterday
when the day shift at the plant of the
! Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company |
quit for the day. The plant is situated
J on the fiats of the Mahoning river, scv- ]
eral hundred feet from the hillside on 1
j which is built East Youngstown, where |
1 most of the workmen live. The mills j
I are reached from the town by a high
j bridge spanning the railroad yards
I which has been carefully guarded by j
I private watchmen since the laborers at j
I the plant several days ago joined the |
j laborers of the Republic Iron and Steel
• Company and other mills for an ad
vance in wages of 25 cents a day.
Shot Loads to Volley
A crowd of men and women esti
mated at 200 had gathered at the East
Youngstown end of the bridge and
jeered the workmen as they crossed.
Suddenly a shot was fired, and guards, i
taking this as a signal, fired over the
[ heads of the crowd. The mob replied
j and another volley came. A number
of persons, including two women, fell
and the mob broke and ran tip the
hillside. A block away they reformed
and almost immediately set fire to the
[Continued on Page 3.]
New Jitney Ta«*s Are
Pale Chrome Yellow
and Shaped Like Fan
The new jitney license tags were
I received to-day by City Treasurer
| Harry F. Oves. They differ widely
i from any other type of marker.
The new design is fan-shaped, the
color is a pale chrome yellow and
the lettering is black. The number
of passengers the license is required
to carry is indicated on the tag. Thus,
if the capacity be seven or less, the
(applicant for a license takes out a
lag numbered "7"; if he wishes to
; haul from seven to fifteen passengers,
jb« obtains a tag marked "15"; if
I more tnan fifteen he gets a marker
; numbered "16."
iTbe chauffeurs' privilege cards, the
license cards and the license certifi
cates were delivered to City Clark
( Miller for distribution to-day. The
■ jitney driver must carry a card and
' frame and hang the license in his car.
j The drivers' badges will be shaped
I like a keystone.
Break in Water Main
Leaves City Without Its
High Pressure Supply
By 1 o'clock this afternoon the 3-
foot break in the 12-inch water pipe
at State and Cameron streets had
been repaired by City Commissioner
Harry F. Bowman.
The leak ocurred shortly before 9
o'clock last evening and for forty-five
| minutes the whole city was without
I its usual hiirh pressure water supply.
(Contraction of the cast iron pipe
caused by the intense cold is at
tributed by Mr. Bowman to the snap
ping of the main.
For three quarters of an hour more
than a million and a half gallons of
water belched from the gap. Tho
street paving wu upheaved, the
street was flooded to a depth of sev
eral inches, State street trolley serv
ice between the city and points east
of Cameron street, was held jjp. As
soon as the break was discovered
Commissioner Bowman notified the
Harrisburg Pipe and Pipe Bending
Works to "bank" its fires. This was
the only interference of work in the
mills. The Harrisburg Foundry and
Machine works and other plants in
the. city were without water how
ever.
While the break was being mended
the city was supplied from the pump
ing station which pumped directly
Into the mains. Ordinarily the water
Is first pumped Into the reservoir.
Commissioner Bowman and George
Cobaugh, the department utility man
were on the job with a gang of repair
men until 2 o'clock this morning.
THE DAY IN CONGRESS
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., Jan. B.—Senate:
Met at noon. Adopted Dodge resolu
tion calling on Secretary Daniels for
Admiral Fletcher's report on naval
war game last summer. Woman suf
frage amendment favorably reported
by suffrage committee. Passed bill
providing for a commission to codify
and suggest amendments to the gen
eral mining laws.
House: Met at noon. Kepresenta
tive Ralney, of rilinois, delivered a
Jackson Day address. Secretary Gar
rison continued testimony before mili
tary committee. Consideration of wa
ter power bill was resumed.
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 8, 1916.
t —— \
Quiets Passengers on Sinking Vessel by Prayer
v j
<£> //v« /*rc A? &£* y»c C."' "*
fsi TME.H? GLJWOS.
New York, Jan. B.—To Father Glavos, a Greek Catholic priest of Cedar
Rapids. lowa, is Riven the cr< I t Tor having prevented a panic aboard the
Greek liner Thessaloniki, which for more than two weeks floated about on
the Atlantic in an almost sinking condition.
All the passengers aboard the Thessaloniki. with the exception of one.
were Greek Catholics. In the midst of a storm the vessel sprang a leak and
the engines were stopped. The hold began to 1111 with water, and the 177
passengers became frightened. Father Glavos, who was returning to this
country after a visit to his native land, appealed to the religious nature of
the passengers and, erecting an altar in the steerage held u prayer service.
Almost continuously the priest worked with his people, as a shepherd works
with his flock, quieting them, praying with them and comforting them.
Father Glavos aided the officers In persuading some of the passengers to
man the pumps and help the crew repair the leaks. With the passengers,
he was finally transferred to the liner Patria, after it became evident that
the Thessaloniki could not make port.
ONE COMMITTEE
ON HIGH SCHOOL
NEW SUGGESTION
President Stamm Proposes
New Plan to Board of
Directors
___
Only one committee in all proba
bility, will be named by the school
board to map out the proposed cam
paign for the erection of a new high
school for Harrisburg.
The plan was suggested at yester
day's meeting by President A. Car
son Stamm as a substitute for the
the three committee scheme proposed
by the Rev. Dr. William X. Yates.
Dr. Yates' plan was adopted several
weeks ago at a special conference of
the directors at which President
Stamm was unable to attend. Direc
tor Yates advocated the naming of I
committees to report on site, co-eduea- I
tion, and ways and means for raising!
funds. These committees were to me j
empowered to ask the assistance of
citttzens' committees of five men each. |
President Stamm declared yester- j
day that he thinks better results can I
be obtained by the appointment of a ■
single committee of five members. |
This committee, he said, can be aided |
materially by the appointment of a
[Continued on Pagv ».]
SHELLS m\CTli'Rfe lI.WDS OF
TWO PIPE MfM- WORKMEN"
Handling shells .at the Harrisburg!
Pipe and Pipe Bending Works proved |
unfortunate to two employes lost ■
night. Joseph Meadovvcraft, aged IS I
years, of Penbrook. received a frac-1
ture of the right hand when a shell
fell on it. John Updegrove, aged 37 j
years, of 2004 Berryliili street, was a|
victim of a similar accident. Both
were treated at the Harrisburg Hos
pital.
SHUT-IN BUILDS HOME MADE
VICTROLA DURIN
Uses sls Machine For Soul of Instrument Which Is
Masterpiece of Handicraft
In a little upstairs front room, in
the western end of the city, lives a
former railroad man, happily sur
rounded l>y a little family. In that
room there has been wrought, pa
tiently but confidently, a masterpiece
of handicraft. The innn is George H.
Myers, the place is 604 Cumberland
street, and the masterpiece Is a hand
made Victrola which only the eye of
a connoisseur can distinguish from
the manufactured article.
Working in his spare time, and
with but a few small tools, lacking
even the almost indispensable
"square," this unheralded genius of
carpentry in little over a month
builded him a man-sized Victrola
cabinet that brooks no criticism, be
ing complete down to the last stroke
of the varnish brush. His most
adaptable tool was a rasp, but a
broken kitchen knife did yeoman ser
vice. The machine, although not
quite completed as yet, is of season
ed oak and beautifully finished. There
are places for five record-files and
vents are cut In the most approved
stvle for the concentration of ,the is
RECEIVE GERMAN i
NOTE ACCEPTING
U. S. CONTENTIONS
Agrees That Placing of Non-
Combatants in Bonis Is Not
Assuring a Place of Safety
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C„ Jan. S.—Ger
many's note accepting the American
contentions that the mere placing of
noncombatants in lifeboats when a
prize is to be destroyed is not under
all conditions to be considered assur
ing them a place of safety, was made
public to-day by the State Depart
ment.
The note is the latest communica
tion over the sinking of the American
I sailing ship William P. Frye and be
' side makine the important conces
sion regarding the question of small
I boats, takes up the matter of an irt
| demnity for the sunken ship and for
arbitrating the disputed provisions of
the Prussian-American treaty.
The most important part of the
I text relating to the sinking of ships
j carrying contraband and the safety
lof noncombatants follows.
Sliarcs IT. S. Views
Until the decision of the perman
ent court of arbitration, the German
[Continued on Page 9.]
GET BROKER CHARGKO
WITH BIG ICMBEZSSIJSMEXT
Boston, Jan. 8.-—Albert P. Miller,
I Ja„ an investment broker, of Provi
i dence, R. 1., wanted on a charge of
embezzlement of more than $300,000
was arrested here to-da.v.
The specific .charge against, him is
the larceny •of 87 shares of stock
valued at $7,395 from the estate of
Mary C. Ormsbee, of Providence.
suing volume of sound. A sls Vic
trola acts as the core of the big
cabinet, which is constructed about it
as a nucleus and which intensifies
the voice of the little machine.
The story of the artistic music
lover Is brief. By trade a butcher
and then a baker, his taste for
neither was very strong, for aesthetic
ism must perforce rise above the level
of these trades. About a year ago he
was injured while lifting a huge box
and as a result can perform only the
slightest tasks. He loves music and
almost instinctively the happy
thought struck him which resulted In
the handmade Victrola.
The visitor to the home of this in
teresting man finds a devoted wife
and two delightful children, the small
est of which, a girl, cuddles confident
ly in your arms and takes by storm
your affection. They are all proud of
"Daddy," to be sure. Daddy's favor
ite record, by the way, Is one of Alina
Gluck's selections. He is not a genius
but he is a mighty skillful worker,
and skill and application are said to
be the daughters of genius.
HEAVILY ARMED
BAND OF YEGGS
SHOT IN FIGHT
Surprised by Posse When They
Try to Blow Post Office Safe
in War Bride Town
PITCHED BATTLE RAGESj
J
Three of Robbers in Hospital
With Bullet Wounds; Two
Others in Jail
By Associated Press
Pennsgrove, N. J., Jan. .B.—A gang;
of six or seven yeggmen were sur
prised while robbing the post office
here early to-day with the result that
three of the robber band are In a hos
pital with bullet wounds and two
others are in the Camden county jail
after a battle with a posse of citizens,
policemen and postal inspectors.
Hecausc of the great increase In the j
number of employes at the Du Pont ,
powder works at Carney's Point, N. J., j
Pennsgrove has grown from a quiet j
little place to a thriving town of about
2 5.000 persons and in consequence of
which the post office these days is a
busy place. On pay day at the jiowder
plant two weeks ago an attempt was j
made to rob the post office, and as
yesterday was again nay day another
visit from the robbers wus anticipated.
Chief Marshall Harbeson, of Penns
grove, enlisted the services of half a
dozen citizens to help his force of four
policemen and postal officials sent lour
inspectors. All were armed.
Yejjgmen Open lire
The post office was surrounded at,
midnight by this guard and at 2.30
a. m. the yeggmen silently approached
the little building from different direc- ,
tions, jimmied open the front door
and entered. One man remained out
side as lookout. Soon afterward the |
posse closed In on the post office and l
the lookout opened fire. Instantly the j
other yeggmen appeared at the doors
and windows and started shooting, the
posse returning the fire vigorously.
The veggmen retreated under the
continuous fire of the posse, but three
i fell wounded. They were taken to the
hospital, where they gave their names
as John Mayo, 42 years, St. Paul,
Minn.: Frank Matson, 38, Galesburg,
111., and Charles Collins. Mayo was
shot in the arm. as was Matson. The
letter also was shot in the foot, and his
face was peppered with blrdshot. Col
lins was shot in the hand.
After the battle the town was
searched and two of the gang were
arrested.
All Heavily Aroicil
All the yeggmen were heavily armed,
but none of the posse was struck.
Mayo was the only one of the men
who would talk. He said he and his
companions hud planned the raid for
some time. He said he was spotter
and lookout for the gang, which means
that he went ahead as advance man
several days before the raid was to
take place, looked the ground over,
got the "layout" of the place and sized
up the obstacles to be overcome. Then
while his 'pals" did the robbery he
waited outside, guarding against sur
prise.
Mayo lamented the fact that lie
; failed as spotter. When he came to
| Pennsgrove several days ago he saw
but one policeman, and believed that
was all the town had. They expected
to knock him unconscious, said Mayo,
and bind him while they worked. They
I assembled in Wilmington, Del., for the
raid and went across the Delaware
river on the midnight boat. They
looked about for the lone policeman,
and, not finding him. they concluded
he was asleep and went ahead with
their work, never suspecting- that the
one policeman had grown into a posse
of heavily armed men who were on
guard.
The yeggmen had broken open a
small safe and were about to attack a
larger one when the posse surprised
them.
Pick Up Shot-Riddled
Lifeboat From Ancona
Rome, Jan. 7.—A iishinp vessel put
in at Anzio to-day with the lifchont
from the steamship Ancona which has
been picked up.
l'xamlnntion of the boat seems to
bear out the assertion that it was (Ired
upon and sunk, while containing pas.
scngers anion" whom were women, by
the Austrian submarine which tor|>e
doed the Ancona. Many lialrplns were
found in the boat. Several holes In it.
apiwirently made by sliells from the
submarine, liad been stopped up with
shawls and torn skirts.
United States Protests
Against Mail Opening
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., Jan. 8. The
United States has sent to Ambassador
Page at London for presentation to
the British foreign office a note vigor
ously protesting against the British
authorities interfering with and cen
soring mails from the United States
to neutral European countries.
The note is understood to have al
ready been delivered to the British
Foreign office.
The State Department plans to
make public its text here later to
day.
Numerous complaints have been re
ceived from American businessmen
and others that their mails destined
to points in neutral European coun
tries have been, opened by the Brit
ish censors. r
Steamships carrying neutral mails
to and from "the United States have
been held up by British warships and
taken to British ports, where prac.tl- .
rally all mails have been removed by
the British authorities. The sieam- ;
ships then have been allowed to pro
ceed and the mails detained and ex- j
amlned by the British censors. After
complete examination the malls have
been sent forward to their destina-'
tion. This has resulted in much do-1
lay, and in some Instances confisca
tion of correspondence.
AUSTRIANS FIGHT
DESPERATELY TO
HOLD RUSSIANS
Fear Victorious Forces Will
Sever Link Between Austro-
Gcrman Forces in Galicia
CONFLICTING REPORTS
Russ Claim to Have Control of
Czartorysk; Denied by
Teutons
By Associated Press
London, Jan. 8. —The Russian offen
sive still occupies the most important
place in the news of the war, with the
[capture of Czartorysk us the latest
achievement reported. The Russians
i claim full possession of the village but
[the Austrlans deny they have advanc
: ed any further than the cemetery.
The Austrians apparently are fight
ing desperately in this region in the
| effort to hold their positions as a
scieen for Kovel and a link between
the Austro-German armies in Galicia
jand those further north in the neigh
borhood of Pinsk, which is threatened
■with envelopment as a result of the
Russsian advance.
Bombard Narrows
The news regarding Czartorysk
must be taken with reserve. A Ger
i man report dated later than that of
the Russians" claims that all the lost
ground has been retaken. The town
may become a second Czernowitz.
On the British front in the west the
Germans have attacked near the Lille-
Armentieres railroad, but, according
to official British advices have been
| repulsed. Both the British and French
I heavy artillery were busily engaged
I yesterday.
| Constantinople reports the allies
have again bombarded the narrows
j from land and sea.
j Adjournment of Parliament over the
j week-end has brought a lull in the
[Coiltinned oil Page 3.]
NO SKATING AT WILD WOOD
Official announcement was made at
the Park offices late this afternoon
that Wildwood is not open to skaters.
The lake is open in places and the ice
is too thin to permit of crowds in
nearly all places where the pond is
frozen.
NEW HAVEN JURY STILL OUT
New York, Jan. B.—The jury in the case of William
Rockefeller, Lewis Cass Ledyard, Edward D. Robbins and
eight other former directors of the New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railroad, charged with conspiracy to monopo
lize the railway traffic of New England in violation of the
Sherman law, was still out to-day. After failure to reach
an agreement at 11 o'clock last night, having considered the
evidence for nearly ten hours, the jury was locked up for
tjie night in a hotel.
GERMANS TAKE TRENCH
Berlin, Jan. 8, via London 3 P. M. —A portion of a
trench to the south of Hartroana-Weilerkopf was captured
from the French yesterday by German troops in a surprise
attack according to the German official statement given out
to-day.
200 MONTENEGRINS FROM U. S. DROWN
Paris, Jan. 8 via London, 1.08 P. M.—Two hundred
Montenegrins from America lost their lives by the sinking
of on Italian ate;. ..ship which struck a mine in the Adriatic.
RIOTING IN NEARBY VILLAGE
Youngstown, 0., Jan. 8. —G;neral Speaks has received
an appeal from citizens of Struthers to send help at once to
that village for protection from rioting there. The message
stated that a mob has formed and is engaged in a general
fight in the streets, men shooting and beating up each other.
General Speaks at once sent two companies of militia to
Struthers in automobiles.
ZEPPELIN WRECKED; TWO KILLED
London, Jan. B.—The accidental wrecking of a Zeppe
lin at Narfcur, Belgium yesterday is reported in an Amster
dam dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph Company. Accord
infc to this information, the dirigible became entangled in
telcgiaph wires while attempting to make a landing. Two
members of the crew are said to have been killed.
FORD PARTY REACHES THE HAGUE
London, Jan. 8, 2.37 P. M.—The Ford peace party has
arrived at The Hague, says a Reuter dispatch ' from the
Netherlands capital.
MARRIAGE
Andrew Jerome Schlndler nnd Helen C. Mntea, city.
Jacob Munnif Hnrklr.v, Altuiina, nnd Km ma Alio It Harmon, Lewis
town.
Harvey I''. Kbersmlc nnd Annie 11. French, Derry Church.
16 PAGES POSTSCRIPT—
JERAULD SHOE
STOCK BOUGHT
IN BY D. P. & S,
Whole Force of Buyers and
Salesmen Will Go to Big
Department storc
$75,000 VALUE OF DEAD
Dives Footwear Branch Will
Be Located in Present
Underwear Section
The biggest shoe deal in the history
of Harrisburg was recorded to-day
when negotiations were closed by Wil
liam H. Bennethum, Sr., manager for
Dives, Pomeroy & Stewart, to take
over the entire stock of the Jerauld
Shoe Company, 310 Market street.
The stock, valued at $75,000, will bs
transferred next week to the Dives,
Pomeroy & Stewart store.
Included in the transfer of this
valuable stock Is tne employment of
the entire corps of salesmen of the
Jerauld Company, numbering four
| teen, by the department store man
agement.
With the closing hour to-night the
Jerauld Shoe Company will end busi
ness. It has been a leading firm for
a quarter of a century. On Monday.
William Strouse, who has purchased
lease of the property, occupied by
I the Jerauld Company, will start work
lon improvements. Ho shortly will
] open a large clothing store.
Entrance in Market St.
Preparations for taking care of the
Jerauld stock have been under way
at the Dives, Pomeroy & Stewart store
for a week.
The entrance and main room to the
Dives, Pomeroy & Stewart shoe
branch, will be in Market street, in
the room formerly used as the depart
ment for men's and women's hosiery,
underwear and children's furnishings.
As an opening feature of the new
shoe department, a special reduction/
sale will start next Wednesday.
RKl> MEN VISIT TELEGRAPH
Fourteen jnembers of the staffs of
the Carlisle Indian school papers,
"The Arrow" and "The Redman" in
spected the big modern plant of tha
Harrisburg Telegraph, this afternoon
under the direction of A. G. Brown,
who is in general charge of lndiau
school printing.
