The True Democrat.
VOL. XXIV ST. PRANCISVILLE. WEST FELICIANA PARISOM, LOUISIANA, ISATURDAY, JANUARY 8, g1t NO. 4
ha Imou mnmmn um -1-~l n n mmm mmmmm n nr~ nun IL_ L Lm -u [] Imurm nm~lmmr nunnu-l - - -i iL " .......
you want toenjoy living dur
ing 1916, buy your groceries
from George Rettig............
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGEIIEE (1836-1914)
We stand upon the threshold of a new year, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
But thus compelling our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guest
within our gates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall find as always the complete satisfaction that CAKATION
is perfect and EARTH an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient being!
SUCCESS LIESll IN MUTUAL IIRVICI.
J. . McGEHEE - - - - Laurel Hill, La.
TEST YOUR OWN EYES
With this MACHINE EYE
TESTEIR (patent applied for),
which has a complete assortment
of all the different strength
lenses mounted in a revolving
wheel, you can, by actual trial
yourself, select a pair of reading
glasses that will give you perfect
comfort and satisfaction.
We can furnish any style frame
you may select, at low prices.
You need a pair of glasses now.
.Come in at once and let us de
monstrate this new practical
' Machine Eye Tester.
Mumford's Royal Pharmacy
Ps1sA~PuPnme IST. FRANCIIVILLI. LA
THE FORD TRACTOR
I have the agency for the Ford Tractor and will have a
demonstrator here soon. The Ford will deliver 16 h. p. at
the belt and 8 h. p. at the drawbar. It will do the work on
your farm that six or eight horses could ordinarily do. It
pulls plows, drills, discs, seeders, mowers, spreaders, har
rows, or any'farm implement of similar nature, It can be
used for pulling graders for road work, hauling logs, pulling
stumps, or hauling heavily-loaaded wagons. It will pull two
144nch plows in ordinary asoll and three under favorable
conditions.
PRICAe-4s, FULLY EQUIPPED, . o,. o , FACTORY.
CHEAPER THAN TWO MULIES.
Chas. Weydert, St. Franclivllle,.
QOoD CORN H ANTED
I am in the market for good
slip shucked Corn in the
ear, at any station on the
L. R. & N.,' or Y. & M. V.,
within this Parish.
F. S. PERCY, Plettenber, La.
BE A BUSINESS
FARMER IN 1916
Seven Suggesttons for the Farmer
Who Believes Me Should Be as
Suesaisslike as Other Men Who
Buy and Sell-Start the Year Right
by Considering These Suggetions.
(J. L. Mogford In Progressive Varmer,
in order to conduct any business in
.s a businesslike manaer it is necessary
- to have a systematic way for handling
all correspondence and acoounts. to
gether with such a system and such
records as will show you at the end of
the year just which of your operations
have been profitable and which have
ut. 'This is just as unecessary in farm
business as in any other, and now is
the time when every farmior should
resolve to put this idea into practice
durlng the year just begun.
It is not necessary to have an ex
peilve ofmcc-just a corner of a room
and simple and nexpeuslive equipment
are all that is really required. Nor is
it necesmaary to have a knowledge of
Iookkeeptng- -Just a systematic record
of your work and transactions. Here
are seent suggestios:
I-A Good Oeok.
The first thing to get is a desk, but
this need not be at all expensive. The
most Important feature about having
the desk is that it gives you a place no
one will touch, and that is always ready
for yotu to sit and make entries, etc.,
and where you can keep letters to be
answered. memoranda you have made.
etc.. and vcan always lay your hands on
thetm when wanlitd.
i--Use Alphabetical Letter Files.
Ordinary letter or bill files can be
purchased in any town for 2tfc. apiece
These files are pasteboard boxes, with
heavy paper partitions making a sepa
rate coumpartment for each letter of
the alphabet. You should have two
such fles, one for receipted bills and
one for letters. Suppose you receive
a letter from Smith Hardware Com
pany yuotlng you prices on the staple
articles you will likely buy during the
year; you will wish to save this letter,
so put It in your letter-Ale back of the
partition marked "1,'" and you can
refer to it In a moment's time. 8uppose
you have had several letters from Amos
arnes about a hoe, with the alpha
betical index all the Barnes letters are
together In the "B" Ale, Your receipt.
ed bills should of course be lied in the
bill-file in the same manner.
Ill-Keep a Farm Reiord and
Account Sook.
In the matter of a record book of
- farming operations and business, you
are fortunate in that The Progressive
iarmer has prepared a "Parmtrs'
liusiness Book for 1916" that answers
every requirement, and the price tl
only ten centi. This book was made
to cover the exact needs of the average
Soutlhern farmer, and you will find it a
valuable help In keeplng your farm
record of work and dealings. Here is
the list of contents:
Plata of V'arm; inventory; Summary
of Uusiness by Months; Articles and
a~rtchandile Bought; Cotton. Tolbacco
and Peanuts Sold; Dairy Products -
Eggs. Pork and Meat; Pruit. Miscella
neous Sold; Live stosck. Poultry, Sold;
'ertillser tought: C(otton Ginned; Cot
ton Picked; Miscellaneous Hired labor;
Record of labor on Cotton Crop;
Record of labor on Tobacco and Pea
nullts; Record of lhbor on Corn ('rop;
Stock Breedlnlg Record. and Poultry
Ureeding Record; Planting Record;
tkebts Due and Owed; Almanac; Mil
cellateous Tables; Seed Tables.
IV-Printed Statioenery Pays.,
Youl are judged by the stationery youi
uise. Prinlted stationery is one of the
requlesttes for a suecessful malliorder
~I business In live stock, poultry, plants,
etc. Picturc to yourself a man who
has answered your advertiement and
your c·omlrtltor'. advertisement, bold
Ing in one hand your letter written on
a sheet from a five-cent tablet, and In
the other hand the letter of the other
tman written ont neatly printed station.
cry will you or your competitor have
the tWbt chance of getting his order?
It pays to noame your farm. and have
the name and an illustration of the
kind of cattle and poultry you special
lie in printed on your stationery. You
can imy printed fetter heads and en
velopes tin small quantlties, but it pays
to buy two or three years' supply at
one time Your local newspaper also
will supply you very reasonatbly.
V-Pay Everything by Check.
A buslness farmer should pay for
everything by chectk as all. other bul
Utas men do. Many a farmer cartries
more money in his pockets than a city
W. F. M$LLSAPS
w. F. MILLSAPS
OF OUACHITA
Candidate For Attorney Gen
eral-Solicits Your Vote
and Influence.
In presenttng his caidtddacy he begsa
to tt permlitted to say that it ie tiacirhtl
ed la thet true spirit of they primary
eltwtioli law. its s eeks the" ujiu vinatio
trtln the tlirhe t ) turratic eltetorate,
and not from aniy fatimon, and, if electL
ed. his commtlllissl will come to him
from the voters of the state at large.
tad his oftCIal r~e~pomIibility will be to
the whole peoplh lie has never takenl
with him into office the feeling or the
spirit of the factitonilt, or the partlisan
lie pledgest himself to a faithftll dis
charge of all the dutie of tIhe, omti(e,
not urk~rooking the enýfolmt, cnient of the
laws fur the regulatttin uatid control of
trusts and combinations in restraint of
trade. tAdvi
business man who has a hundred
thousand dollars. ~iere are, I.hree roe
aesoat why farnt buisine+as met, as well as
town bushness retn should deal with
buku annd pay everything by check:
II) ( arrying nmon.ey on your person
is unafte. Your ,toney atd possibly
your life I. endanKgered by this wilful
Invitation to robbery and theft
12t When you pay b) chec'k you get
the cancelled check back as a receipt
for every single itemt you have paid
There Is no chance of havtig to pyav
an account t wie., your cheek being
the proof and the receipt,
(3) When you detposit iii the bank
every rent you receive' froti. the sale ,of
your produce, and the'ln I alw it out by
check, you are staiblitshii a cr dint
with the batnk. The matn . he has a
balance with the bank on his checkkit g
areoullnt lmout of thse year. a Ill I have no
trouble in borrowing a rotlpl*' of hun
dred dollars to carry hint over a light
place.
VI--The Telephone In Susinees.
The telephone today to one ot f ma.n's
most upseful servantst. and to it m an
who live,. at a distancer from ns rkits
or neighbors, it Ia atn ahbroliit n'crea
ally !lo rant yolu en'I ro.ur.belf a
bulinesPelfartner if yout go ahead and
,"trry a rouple of bales of cotton six
milees to market only to ftnd that the
price It off and you can't get what youlr
'Otton would have brought the day
before, and will without doubt briny
again in a few dayes. A telephonle pall
from honme woudl have saved this lows
of money. tinme and trouble Mos*
farmers have the chonle' of two market
lag towns; the tele'phon, 'n ill show ye,,,
at whic ayou can icll to beat adva.stango
VII-Get a Typewriter if You
Write Much.
The typewriter I. no lorguer a luxury
and, strange' as It may seem, It requires
very little practince for one to learn to
operate it rapidly yo1 cfan phck it up
from the instr1u1tions the dealer will
give you, or front solme bright boy or
,rlr who knows how to use one. Type
written letters are plain and businoles,
like, while another great d\lantage h.
Ihat the typewriter entables. ynot to
make a duplenicate opy of every letter.
you write, to keep II your files fro
reference. Just sIlp a heelt of eartait
spaper he't'ween your letter paper and
a plain sheet of paper the lsame size,
and whent your letter I. isnished you
will have,, an exact copy for your own
file,
Start Your Office Now.
The cost of starting anI otflr¶e la
smeTll and the need so ur'gelnt, that I
trust you will start the New Year right
by fixing up an office and keeping at:
exact record of your farmtin openr,
tlans and your busines.s during tt,.;
Ift you do, you will like the, idea sl uwe.l
that you will Inlist ever after on
"dotag bauesine in a business way "
'SYNOPSS OF PROGRAM
FARMER SHORT COURSE
'here will be an informal nmelling
in tI:rtli Hall at 7 :it inm on Moudan,
J.ini 3!, for registratiton, ditIributton
i1 t"grnmina,. e" ia a)tiltton of pr',gra'-ins,
:.,igntKnentI to rcoilnittees to aid in the
stork that may be given, spelal ttlen
iti by Ithe co unfereºlce, getting .
iquainted, etc
TUtICt)AY, lICB I.
Corn Day. The opening day of the
short course will be devoted to lec
tures otl 'Orn gUrowing. Spacing, fIor
tlliting and cultivatilg corn; Things
-essential to profitable corn production
in Louisiana. Marketing corn; Crop
ping sysltems, with corn as the major
crotp,. and Variety tests of corn at the
( experiment stations are the principal
subjects on the day's program. Each
locture will be followed by general
discussions.
W ICiNICbDAY, FIB. !.
The second day will be devoted to
Poultry and the Home curing of meet.
A visilt will be made in the afternoon
to t he. mnunilcpal abbatoir. Dr. R. W.
'e'l'uck. Veterinary inspector in charge
H. A. I. New Orleans, will lecture on
inspection of meats. In the evening
there will be a lecture by Mr. Jas.
McKee. of Kentucky. a commercial
breeder of Duroc.Jersey hoge,
THURSDAY, FEB. 3.
Good Reade Day. Mr. W. I. Atkin.
son. HState Highway lEnglieer, will talk
on hood roada in the afternoon, and
give an illustrated lecture on the same
sulbj.ect in tho evenling. Mr. I'eehan,
df the American Portland Cement
c'omtpany, will lecture on Concrete on
tine farm. and In the eveniag give an
illustlated Ielure on Ilses of concrete.
In the afternoon there will be a de
tmonstratlion n road construction.
FRIDAY. FRB. 4.
Swine Day. Types and breeds of
hugs, Forage crops for bogs, flog
cholera, and Marketing relltaered hogs
are some of the subjects on the prom
ram. Dr. IC. P. Plower of the Louls.
lana Live Stock Sanitary Board will
Igive a demonstration of vaccinating
bhogs against hog cholera in the after
noonl Pig club work will be the sub
ject of an illustrated lecture in the
,venling.
ATtURDAY. FEICB. 5.
Public sate of hogs. One hundred
head of swine, representing all popular
breeds in loulslana. are to be sold
at auctiotn at the Baton Rouge fair
grou1nds.
MONDAY, FEP5. 7.
A varied program will be olePed on
this day. ('ommon allments of horses
3and mules and Tuberculosit in farm
alnimals will be discussed by Dr. W IH
]Dalrymple. Soil fertility, Gasoline en
gine*. ('harbon. or anthrax are some
tither subjects that will reoeive altten
tion. IDenonstratlon of farm machin,
ery. Iraction plowing., etc., will be
gitven in the afternoon, State Sup~er
Intendent T. H. Harrlis will make an
address in the eveningl.
TUiCBDAY, FEICB. .
Seef Cattle Day. Types and breeds
of bef cattle, Cattle tick eradication
in Ilitstarna, Live Stock Ertenllon
work. and Marketint beef eattle are
the sulbjects for the day program. In
the evening. Mr. Wirt Wrlight. Prel.
dentl of the National Stock VYards Bank
of ('hicago, wilt lecture on Rtral
-.redits.
WRDNICrDAY. VPIB. 9.
Agriculit'ral Day. The morning ntr
trani will tb devoted to distrcustons of
MIodrni marketing, Transportation of
t)rishable products, and New truck
'oit Demonlstrations In sprayinx
ed glrafting will be gliven In the after.
noon, In the evening there will be an
liIlstrated lecture on ('omnramon insects
hat may be oombated,
TIltHIfSDAY, PBH 10.
Dairy Day. Veleding dairy cows.
'andllig milk and cream, and Texas
c-i'er laed the cattle tick are some of
the leadinlg subjects on the morning
.rograli Mr. J. i. Msilain, of the
I' S. lepartment of Agrlculture, will
rtti,.lrel at II ), a inl on Types of
:ailry farlrmlng, and at 7 ?0 p. m. will
glve alt illustrated hlture ort Uonstruc
tioi fl silo., in the afternaolon there
utll he delionstrstinotsl In butter maik
itng and in Testing milk and cream.
fRII)AY, FIPIC !1.
Sile Day. This will be a contlnn
.,l 'tof the prce!'dnllg day's proglram.
,ith tpeclal attentiohn gllven to the, silo
t-rofittsor I)ods.n will talk on Slag..
tolitgl and hay crop; and Dr. I)al
rymple' on Life H. lltory of the cattle
tick and Tick e-radication work There
a.t ill be a demnonstration n la sile con
struetlon in the afternoon.
FINDING AND HOLDING YOUR
MARKET.
tly Margaret (tray Blanton.)
tinditig sand holding your market are
slnot two separate sild distinct phases
'f ,our bustnlrs developnmlent, but pro
ts'et1d practi ally tog'ther There is. of
Sr':ºrll ',. M,1,r' dieret.'wel ' ,, Iht e'I those
H hieu at'1 ras r"atilers andu thoset who
I  pl.d th,.r re'ta letra, brt it is the
(t ar of wisldOm. srine youlr retail
mturket niasi hse sunieahat flluctuatig,
i c'mbtllubne bott1. To this etnd the
1\ tonlis'es lxehalges' are excellent. It
you arer fortunate enough to have one
it your town. My advice is that, the
mouimouent your little holme factory Is
running on a satisfactory basis in
supplyingll that one place, begin to
bran(ch out. It is often a finishing blow
to a little business when the main
custonler quits, and it is well to fortify
)ourself against this in thet beginninlg.
Possibly your best ally in building
up tllhis secondary trade is some Indi
viduai natme anid container. it Is easy
to seu this in the work of the larger
firms. It is also wel to remember that
people. especially in the larger conua
emunlttes, are antiouut for "hoe-mtuade"
goodis This is your ilrst asset, not to
be hidden under the proverbial bushel.
Avoid getting things "manufactured"
looking. If you box your product it is
bad to have boxes with your name
printed, as It makes your product seem
factory or quantity made.
Nearly anythlng that cat be handled
in the box can be handled in waoed
papers, it itis edible, and tissue paper
if It is not We except preservep, ams.,
jellies, and no forth; and even these
may be handled in the new paper con
tainers.
Ito noit be afraid to be informal. To
the minds of smost people Informality
of the right sort is the hall*mark of
a cYntforltable home, aisd an lnformally
made and advertised product spells
"Itom e-nade."
Haves your goods on sale at uies.
pecite' places. The tendency is to try
to sell baby-elothee to a layette shop,
candy to a candy shop, et. Put your
eandy In a flower store, toy shop or
school; flowers in a candy store or
book-stall.
If youe are specialising with a cameraR
put the posters not only In the sta'
tionor's but the forist's. It y1o mtake
chlidreni's pictures, igpt permission to
put a stack of. basiness cards on the
Infants' wear oanUter and in a ,toy
store, Remember that the publle has
money, but that you must eatch It in
the right humor to make It want to
spend It. Once you make a woman
want a thing, if it is within reason, you
probably knlow from eaperience that
she will get it!
It some merchant Is handling your
goods, get him to let you put advertla
Ing silps. for one week, on the desks
of his wrappers, onse to go Into each
bundle. These must, of course, bear
his name too. Have on them some
brief, natchy sentence that wilt make
eople want your goods,
Nearly any merchant, unless It is a
large city store, will let you have one
window display if It Is unique enough.
Onle friend who made eake. got a blue.
flame coaloll stove set up in a window
,nd made her cake there for three
days. Tile stove company let her use
the stove, rent free. for puttingl their
lame on It.
Aaother woman who wanted to play
at varitous parties, paid for the haul
ale of a piano to one of the stores,
tiluing the name of the piano mnanufac
turer for rent, and played all the new
music, free, from tour to six. She had
circulare dlstrlbuted, tellinl her obljeet,
:rnd a couple of girl friends stayed
around, prettily dressed, and chatted
with her and the people to give a
sorial aspect.
These. examples are given, not with
the purpose of baving you imltate
:henls, btut with the idea of stimulatingl
you to think out selling anid advertlk
ng plans of your own.
THE MERCHANT MARINE,
Preidedit W'ilison told the whole story
of the' disappeartance of the American
merchant marinrll when he sold: "The
,rteat eltrchant Alet we once used
uwe have almost driven out of
lite'stce' by Inexrsraable neglect and
ndhtlferPtce, asd by a hopelessly blind
alnd pree iI;sc1al pldl'y of no-called eco
mnlmic protecsIlee " ie suggest ted the
'ltrue r,-nudy a lrtl he said: "We, shoutld
prmtlnl I) re'lstlel,' ve',ry legal h tbetllile
'hat may setailel in th e way of this
oceclh Ilt bt desired revival of our
lndependetsce."
ThIhis bing so, it is clearly the dlutly
f ('ongress, nut only to refrain froIn
ai'ollptilg the recosll lendatlosl of a
,lpecial tax on iron and stehei, but it
should remove all tarlt dul(lis froms
everylhingl that enters Intou the man.
facttre of ships·, -Cticago Publl,
