. lanuaryS, W
The menace Has tho Largest Pafd-fn-Advance Circulation of Any Weekly Paper on tho Globe There's a Re. ,
"EMISSARIES OF SATAN"
Pope Benedict in his addrru on hii birthday in
'November, referred to the I'rotcttant teachers sud
ministers in Rome as "Emisuries of Stun." Later issues of the daily press try to modify the statement somewhat
by claiming that Benedict had especial reference to the Methodist ministers. tT1U explanation won't explain,
for the essential doctrines of the Methodist church agree in the main w ith those of other i'roteitant churches. So
if the Methodists in Rome are emissaries of Satan the Methodists in America art also agents of the Devil. 40 If the
Mrthodm are terrains ol hm Satanic Mijrtfr, the other Prwcwantt arc no better. 4 Now ih the ptM brad of the Catholic chuftH has tpokm
and eipeewse a opinion of PrwrsLinta, which, of cowrie, iH be re-echoed by ever. Romania, mt wonder if the rrraf miM of non-Cat ho! c
wi3 be willing to take the pop ai hm word. Or, wrifl a lot of them fl dows oa thetr knee and brf Catholic to rrctnic them at Chnttiam?
llf there's a fattening thing in all America, if to ae i tot of Proven no (awning and whining around Caiholict, betting for recogniuoQ and
toleration, while (he head of the Catholic church t'gmatixes thcra ai "Lnusahea of Saian." -
f it y e,ii
1HE
Awr, MlaaowH
'53 Thl l Number 24G 8
A Matter of Veracity
Mnir C'jy, Dm. 15. By piwki&
; hmm urjiBj tWt rnA.uri so f
ll aciaat the CoasutououluU, Cntav
be nt tm kl oralis, eut of hlk
eaa. t lately bt giving Ik Camas
aaihonue aturk trouble. Tw priest
bee jreu4. it reported le-day,
aaa ckrgd wiU seditio.
Tk oupoeuto ef tbeCatfcolie clergy
la ssy other part ef th eoaatry t
"atsddie" la poliur m eaaaag
facta Oeerset math aeoeara.
Jee ITeeU, !. t, ISIS.
Tba abora cab! du patch to the
TTaHd roused Uie ire of one
Thomas F. Woodlock, who ia evi
dent Catholic and may, in fart,
, be a prieet of Die Roman Catholic
church, though hiding his identity
in u iMumrd name if tucb is the
rasa. Fol lowing the appearance of
the news from Morclia the proved
pert4n touk exceptions to the mat
ter .n true papiKt ttvle by addroa
ing'a letter to the People's Forum
column in the World in which he
called attention to certain portions
of the dispatch and stated that the
WorliTi correspondent is deceived
and is unwittingly deceiving his
editor and his readers. The peeved
reader continued his tirafle as fol
lows: "lie is helping to give currency
to a lie, and a Le, moreover, most
deliberate in character.
"The American people, thanks
very largely to Mr. Wilson, have
been made fools of bj the slimiest
collection of cowardly blackguards
masquerading as a pottles of democ
racy and liberty that ever disgraced
the human race. It is not credit
able to our intelligence."
Immediately following the above
outburst of' Romish hatred against
our president and against a legiti
mate and interesting bit of news
which the Roman Catholic church
has abundantly prepared the ground
for, and in the same column of the
same i&soe the World told the de
fender of Rome's infamous system
of peonage and oppression, illiteracy
ana crime, just where it stood is
these words:
"The IF orl&'i experienced corre
spondent in Mexico City certainly
knows more about conditions in,
Mexico than anybody in New York
knows. We have hsd in the past
abundant reason for trusting his re
ports, and no reason whatever for
distrusting them. Ed. World."
The people of this nation have
been so viciously betrayed by the
powers of the papacy and have their
newspapers so highly colored with
Romish guff and misrepresentation
that it is a welcome innovation to
find one paper that will defend its
tried and trusted .correspondents
against the vilifications and ven
omous hatred of Rome's infamous
influence.
Let the truth be told. If Rome
is one-tenth as bad as she haa been
painted, in Mexico, annihilation is
not too severe a punishment If
she is rotten, and cruel, and oppres
sive in Mexico, she is so in the
United States, though she hides the
shells with greater care and uses
more subtle methods to achieve her
nefarious ends.
. If priests preach sedition in Mex
ico, then they can and will preach
sedition here. If they can and do
seek to overthrow the government
in one pisce uiey wui in anotner.
If the confessional needs abolishing
in Mexico, there should be no room
for it on United States soil. What
is morally wrong there is morally
wrong here and Home is as rotten
as conditions will permit her to be
wherever she is permitted to find a
foothold. Her arrogant despotism
and infamous treachery are scaled
according to her requirements in
securing control of affairs.
Let the Woodloek's rant and rave
the hypocrisy of Rome is blas
phemous and merits unmerciful
exposure.
Marquette and Joliet
There is on foot in papal circles
a movement to secure the erection
of suitable ' monuments to the
"honor" of Clark Marquette and
Joliet Just what the Catholic idea
oi a suitable monument is, we
are not aware in this instance. We
can but remember that two of these
historic names are made imperishable-in
the names of cities: Mar
quette, Mich., and Joliet I1L It is
perhaps an expression of the ironr
of fate that each of these Catholic
cities, named after Catholic men, is
the location of a state penitentiary.
' And the Catholic church is provid-
v ing at least its own proportion of
j the stripevclad inmates if Rome is
as well represented in those insti
tutions as sue is in many others by
far a majority of the inmates are
of her faith, the children of the
Roman Catholic church.
If those prisons do not have
Catholic priest serving as chaplains
within the walla, then Rome has
overlooked a couple of chance to
connect up with the glory game as
it is opersted by her priestly players.
The Chit-ago TrUmnt, I We tuber
3, 1915, gave an account of the ef
forts being made to secure a monu
ment to eaih of the three historic
figures to be erected at Marshall
boulevard and Twenty-fourth street,
Chicago. Three persona with He
brew names, all teachers in Chicago
schools, orated before the director
of the Art Institute which controls
the Ferguson fund for the erection
of monuments. They also bore pe-
titiona carrying the naiuos of 6,6uJ
school children praying for the
monuments.
Rmuish publicity hunters are us
ing Jewwh children to promote
their pet scheme of parading Cath
olic names before the public, even
as Romioh interests are using a
Jewish con'reMman to put over her
press muzzling game.
Uutil Catholic education, Cath
olic religion and Catholic loyalty
succeed in reducing uie nunioer oi
Romish criminals and dependents;
until papal politics has ceased to
pervert legislatures and prevent the
passage of ls providing free text
books ; until Romanized courts cease
to railroad innocents to pspal pris
ons, it would be well to allow the
cities and penitentiaries to remain
the only monuments to Marquette
and Jouet '
Is He a Good Catholic?
New Orlcaaa, La., NoTambar 11, 1915.
(Special) -father KeiUr, of Bt. Cecilia
Catholic church, rafua4 to accept the
proceed of a lawa party to be givea by
hia eongregatioa. The rriwt ia build
ing a sew church, and the members
wuhed to tnra over to hia the now;
they proposed to rmlae at aa entortaia
ment. Ia declining their offer. Father
Reiter Mid: " Church ea should not he
built with money derived from question
able pleasures. The Lord prefer to havs
Uia children give their money freely.
Mychurch will not be built from the
proceeds of candy raffles, grab-bags,
wheels of fortune, and other forma of
gambling. Aeither dors the Lord wish
Uia temple to be built from the proceeds
of dance and other entertainments.
"1 don't wish to scold the members,
but thoir views and the Lord's don't
coincide. The church sets a mighty bad
eiample when It profits from gamMing
and entertainments. "Lkicago Trsbunt.
The attitude of Father Reiter is
so radically different from that of
the great majority of Rfuiaii Cath
olic priests that it is refreshing to
know that he takes a stand for right
on the question of gambling and
money getting at least While he
ia so outspoken against raffles, for
tune wheels and such gambling do
vices his brother priests through
out the country are evading and
defying the gaming laws in all man
ner of ways in their desperate de
sire to gather gold. Occasionally a
"father" gets mixed up with a court
for operating a plunder graft of
some sort but Father Reiter is keep
ing on the side of safety at least
Are there others like him?
Callahan Talked to Tumulty
Trince P. H. Callahan, the
Knight of Columbus rarnisher and
prejudice hunter, of Louisville, Ky.,
was in Washington City recently
and conferred witlj the president's
private secretary, Joseph Patrick
Tumulty.
lie, also called on a senator or
two and he Lonisrille Courier
Journal intimated that he expected
to discuss "a private business mat
ter" with one of the departments
at Washington.
We would like to know whether
or not Tumulty gave the head of
the K. of C. religious prejudice
committee any additional pointers
on Wilsons Mexican policy. That
policy seems to hare caused no little
excitement in Komish circles and
Tumulty has crossed the Romish
path in an apparent attempt to hold
his job with the president
With Callahan conferring with
Tumulty and senators and other
wise nosing around in the capital,
and remembering the valiant aid
iriven by Tumulty to the Galliran.
Fitzgerald & Co. press muzzling
game at the last session of congreR,
we are inclined to believe that there
is a great deal of hippodrome, or
stage-p!ay, in the. Catholic furore
over the recognition of Carranza;
Stage-play is one of Rome's pet
games, yon know, in working the
charity graft as well as in her hypo
critical war on bigotry.
. Nuns are a family aaerific to priestly
eeuDStty. (
VOTES AWED RDGLH1TS
23 THE SOMAN CATHOLIC CHUECH IN POLITICS?
If appearances and results count for anything it la, it haa been and will continue to be
la politics until patriotic Americans axons from the deadly lethargy that keeps them In
sensible to danger.
In 1909 Bishop Mnndeleln, who is to be the next Archbishop of Chicago, delivered an
address at a Manhattan College Alumni dinner in th course of which he sold:
"Give us a Catholic, abls, honest and Just and give him the solid support of a united
party, and I believe he would be elected hands down, even now. W are the only people
who hav never dragged religion into politics."
"A Catholic" "a united party" and "elected hards down" savor much of politics
and th bishop spok then of th things we, as watchful and patriotic Americans, have seen
in the ranks of Rome. A Catholic candidal unites the Catholic vote regardless of party,
and such united effort in many elections meant success for the Catholic candidate a minority
is able to control through its cohesive nature and obedient action.
Rom knows how to shape her affairs and to control her subjects in such a way as to
secure for herself power and a tinsel glory.
Mundelein said also that "We want our rights; that, and nothing more. We want and
demand the privileges granted to ua by th constitution." To understand all that is couched
in those words on must have watched th play of th papacy in city, state and national
politics; must have seen th trickery with which Rome has foaght reason and right in
legislation and administration. '
The rights of a Catholic are no higher nor finer than the rights of non Catholics when
it comes to a matter of truth and justice. We are all human beings, springing from the
same source and living on the same earth, and should be obedient to the voice of the ma
jority in temporal things- God will judge of our thoughts and deeds in His own good time
and we deny the pope or the Roman Catholic church any rights that do not belong to the
rest of mankind.
The bishop is biased aa all "good" Catholics are biased trained, bred or Intimidated
into belief, or pretense of belief, that Catholics are by nature and divine right entitled to
privileges and position more exalted than others. And arrogance has been cultivated until
a bishop or a priest can brazenly dictate the opinions which he wishes hia subje-.-ts, the chil
dren of the Roman Catholic church, to hold and express.
' HZ CAN COMMAND OBEDIENCE TO HIS DESPOTIC WILL politically as well u
spiritually. Mundelein talks like a Catholic, to Catholics and for Catholics.
As for "dragging religion into politics," Mundelein has the cart before the horse
Rome has dragged politics into religion which is quite another thing. -There can be no
objection to any man taking his religion into his politics voting as he would pray, for his
own and his neighbor's welfare. But to drag polities into religion is a base thing and can
only result in debasement of that which should be kept pure. Rome has done that, and
has done it treacherously.
She has used her infinite means of control for an unholy purpose.
The confessional with its Infamous possibilities in the hands of weak men; the vows of
priests and bishops to defend the church; the secret societies, military, political and social
under the trained band and eye of the priesthood; the cloistered institutions from which the
non-Catholio public is kept with zealous care and the blind obedience of the laity to the
priests, these, ail of them, are deadly weapons in the hands of a despotic power to be used
against a heretic people. '
And all who are not Catholics are heretics in the eyes of Rome.
The "united party" is the Catholic vote, though Mundelein and the Roman Catholic
church would have us believe otherwise. That "united party" has kept Mexico in turmoil
and ignorance for centuries and it would snatch the reins of government from the hands
of the people in the United States tomorrow if it could.
The Catholic "rights" which are so Insistently demanded, and which the Catholic 'vote
is urged to secure, include the right to make and unmak laws for th protection or promotion
of Catholic interests and Catholio interests Include much that is not American, not just,
and not religious in any sense. -
s
Rome claims as hers the right to teach and South America, Mexico and other nations
where Rome haa ruled for long have wept and starved and fallen because she did not teach
as she should have taught.
Rome claims as hers the right to rule TEMPORALLY AS WELL AS SPIRITUALLY
and hence puts all her force into the fight to gain control. She has dragged politics into
religion if she ha any religion to enforce that right.
The election of Catholics to office, and especially to legislative and judicial positions, is
to secure the enaction of laws favorable to her devilish designs ; to protect her infamous
slave system which is a blot upon our civilisation; to secure immunity from just taxation;
to secure appropriations of public funds for the support of her so-called schools and pre
tended charitable institutions.
The election of Catholics to office is to secure a Catholio interpretation of existing
laws, and always the will and welfare of Jhe vast majority of our population are infamous
ly ignored. The Romish effort which has successfully opposed free text book laws in many
states is an example of the ulterior and infamous motive of the Catholic in public office.
There are hundreds of other examples of treacherous political activity on the part of
Rome's representatives in legislatures and congress.
Th vicious hatred with which inspection bills axe assailed has not been forgotten, and
to the glory of the state of Arkansas be it said her legislature was not afraid to cross tho
papal path and pass such a law. , V
Does Mundelein dare to say that the children of hi church have rights under the con
stitution that do not also belong to non-Catholics? His church has thrown every influence
and force at its command behind a persistent effort to have a Romish interpretation placed
upon the constitutional right of free speech and has sought to place a R;mkh mozile upon
the press which the constitution distinctly states shall be free.
Let Mundelein and bis fellow prelates in the church of Rome come up to the same level
of citizenship that non-Catholics occupy and cease their trickery in political paths.
This land is broad enough to accommodate his church and its religion but IT MUST
CONFORM TO OUR LAWS AND NOT ABRIDGE THE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT OF ANY
PERSON TO THINK, SAY OR PRINT WHAT HE WILL WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF
TRUTH AND JUSTICE.
Our laws give Catholics the same rights they give to others THEY CAN EXPECT NO
OTHERS. x
la view f Us bre4 Lms ia sil ef
f ribM ee attorney Uias of
ik ! wal'h Ual la srl o Ue
Ha efcurra, a 4 s U pnreily
drosM 4 prUU ihrj support. Ae
rvrriiag to fwvttliloe tVw rasres
ar But all trr of drt-t. but ar suil
dtaaiec frost Ik r"pl. "G t
I'atkolK rkurrk abrre," sty tk
tffcW ( iittm. "ssJ r r quite sure
ta krar ef Ike VM oa tk rkurrk rooe(
tb pulpit tTBru oa tsisdsy. "
la rkurrk tad rstkiralt are 1
ays liiig krpt la a state "rliif r
pkirm." s-M't'ly rusr to pull lople fur
njotu-y fur tie fm sj ilruat-a. .No frrtr
frsii.1 rii) o ty rortli tksi the lloinisk
iiu.U r. A "-c a.a that strsls a kf
ol lic. f n ki surviiig family sut
srne a pu.ii t.rm, bit thr tkirtos
uriutu un.trr rutr of rrtiios sre si
i-.mcl U go fict! Tkis II sxt alwais
l so.
Tkrre is a small Intra ia Indiana whirk
rontaia slMit a ilnrn talhuhr fiumli.-a,
a l nib")- ikutik an. a u!hr ln.rari.
I kr pruet of an a.ljuiriitii; mra of'.m
r'iiH to ' iipli at at tfce allaf. r
lat hti ri'UM at the LLrsry and starksl
uj a K.mik run, l.la ki;ianlin tbi
III lanau la-aiiM Ik alluaetl Till Ml
ai t to rome to the library. KriWrm
kirn to thr hear. I of TrurtAr, he im
n .MialrlT -t forth ns a al iug epeli
lion. Tkrv prir.i, aant t'ath.ilir lxk
in pul. he l.hrsiMS fur nun I albums t
iia.l,(l'iit thry d.'s't aaut tb other f-l
to la what he want! The pap,
are wnrking ovrrtim examining tb
library bw.ks that nothing ilrroiilury t.
tbrir bo!.-al graft crm'ps in, an.,
making out liMr fur t'stliolir Utok hlvi,
in put'lie lilirarxn. The papint organ,
Ami ru tt, onre aaul: "Th wuli- ritnion
of the t arm gi library sTirtiii is re
gar.iisl by ninny 1 bought f ul people as a
pril lo tb mural of tli young." What
rr thtna lbs aran-lhglit of truth on
RomUh graft, is rgrlrU by the preluto,
as a "peril to morals."
Burke for U. S. Senator
John Burke, Trvuburer of the
United States, Human Catholic and
Knight of Columbus, who has thrice
been governor of North Dakota, has
announced that ho will make the
race for t'liitini Statoa Senator from
his state on the democratic ticket
II is candidm j was announced by
.ho democratic state central com
mittee, mxtmling to the Grand
Forks Daily Herald, December 16,
though he failed to secure the en
dorsement of the committee. A
tifT fi'lit mas made by Burke's
friend to ceiure the endorsement,
but the Minjile announcement that
lie would bo a candidate for the
senate was all that could be secured
for him.
It is said that the Scandinavian
tote is solid against Burke for the
luee and nothing but a split in the
KcpuMicun jartv can secure his
election. North Dakota is now rep
resented in the House of Repre
sentatives by a Homun Catholic, IV
I). N'rirton, of the third district,
and the patriots should remember
the past record of Human Catholic
senators and representatives. Fitz
gerald, (iullivan and others have
shown the trend of Komish reason
ing and papal allegiance to be un
American in the extreme a men
ace to free sjieeeh and free press,
sinister in its infamous intent.
Blind Guides of the Blind
Pr. A. F. Kilbourne returned last
night from Winona where he appeared in
'f
the trial of Father Leo-hr. During the
questioning of the superintendent of the
Kofbestcr 8tate Hospital, Dr. Kilbourne
was asked, "Was Fsthor Lescbea rapkble
of distinguishing right from wrong," to
which he replied: '
"Nine-tenths of os know the difference
between rifiht and wrong," was the
answer, "but some lark the will power
to do right. No paranoiac ia safe at
large. Lr hes way ctpable of conduct
ing a mass but he was not responsible
mentally for shooting the bishop."
Other expert testified that Father
Lewbe wss inrane. Rochester (Minn.)
Potln BulUltn, Dee. !, 1915.
Read the above carefully: The
superintendent of the Minnesota
State Hospital, declares under oath
that a man may be mentally irre
sponsible for shooting a man, and
lie unsafe to be allowed at large,
and yet sufficiently sane to conduct
the sacrifice of the Juu.m, tlie high
est ceremonial of the Catholic
church. In other words, a man
may be murderously insane and yet
ane enough to be an active priest,
This will account for the antics
of such priests as Mullen, Schmidt,
et al. Also the vagaries of the com
mon run of prints who are always
willing to deny anything and every
thing to advance their cause.
We do not wonder at this, for it
is only the natural result of a system
which trains men to believe them
selres not only better than other
men. but to be the sole arbiters of
the destinie of other men.
Any man assuming to be invested
with the powers of Divinity is that
far insane, and as insanity is large
ly a matter of degree, the only
wonder is that there are so few
Catholic priest in the asylums.
Eilfy Parker at Turpj, FIl '
About the middle of December
Billy Parker went to Tampa, Fla-,
to an engagement to the Tampa
Bay Camo, a municipal building,
and spoke to full house on two oo
casions. it bring estimated that 3,
OoO people heard his eiposure of
the Roman Catholic political ma
chine. Aa is anally the case he waa in
terfered with. After it wa learned
that his lectures were anti-Catholic
the Tampa Bay Casino was locked
acaiiitt him and he was ford to
lead his audience to the Masonic
Temple, from the steps of which he
dtliiered his lecture.
Much interest was aroused owing
to the fart that Major MrKar. who
is also editor of the Tamp Tim ft,
revoked tho contrac t for the Casino
and locked its door in the face of
an advocate of free siftth and a
Icfender of American institution.
Much spait waj given to the nut'er
in t lie lamna psners and UtQ
Kniehts of Columbus filled nearlf
two columns of space in the Trily
unr. lietTiiiber' (marked "Ad
ertisenirnt") with a tirade arninst
Parker and much other gush which
was supposed and intended to con-
ev the impression that Itoraan
Catholics and Kni-hta of Columbus
are all lovul, patriotic and loving
citizens of the communities in which
they live. They even denied that
Knights of Columbus are an anrixl
fort e ; that they are unpatriotic ; that
they take the alleged oath, (quoting
in full the firm oath which they
claim is the only one taken in the
fourth degree). They forgot to
mention that it was an armed force
of Knight who killed Wm. Black
at Marshall, Tex; that it was an
armed force that kidnapped Spur-
geon Hi-Denver and left him bruised
and broken and alone, almost fatal
ly injured, beside a lonely road;
that it was an armed mob that all
hut killed Crowley at Oclwein, Iowa.
Were those murJerous mobs in
spired by the lofty and commend
able purpose which the Tampa
Knights boost theirs in vilifying
Billy Tarker at Tampa? The pope
owned and pope-intmiidated presa
of Florida is busy endorsing the
action of Mavor McKay in closing
a public building ag.tinst an Amer
ican citizen who wished to speak
under and in defense of his consti
tutional rights.
The Ocala flnr said in part: He
is engaged in one of tho vilest oc
cupations a man can follow. Jesus
was spoken of in terms as vile by
those who feared him.
The Orlando Ileportcr Star said
in part:
'Let not honest and well' moaning'
people be deeeivej by such peddlers of
rancorous doviltry, lest they awake soma
dny and regret' in their souls that they
gave heed to the diatribe of these dis
ciples of hste and disorder seek
ing to sow the seed of discord among
our people to the end that they aad their
kind might 'fatten, vulture like, upon the
offal which is the upheaval and fruit of
the poison virus with which they ia
orulste a community if once allowed to
rant in the hearing of weak-minded and
in liscrcct persons. ' '
Mayor McKay was forced by in
junction to reopen the Casino to
the Parker meetings and they were
carried to a successful close, Mr.
Parker going from Tampa to Oil
City, Pa., to spend Christmas with
his family.
During hia Tampa lectures
Parker paid high tribute to Tom
Wat.wn, whose case has jnst been
heard in federal' court at Augusta,
Ga., and spoke of the fearless ed
itor of the Jeffersonian as "the next
president of the United States" ia
these words:
"Our own people have sent their
ultimatum to President Wilson re
garding 'uia secretary, and at tho
nevt election wc hope to have a bet
ter man and a bigger one to tako
his place. I believe the organiza
tion 1 am today working to perfect
will be sble to down all opposition
and elect Thomas E. Watson " as
president of the United States."
The Romish interference that is
attending Billy Parker on his lec
ture tour is full of hatred against
established law a hatred menacing;
and murderous, as recent events
have so terribly proven.
ROME DREADS EXPOSURE.
I all age the priest have bee th
now-producing elans, who have neither
cultivated the earth nor attended tho
flocks. They have always lived npo tk
labor of others, ami hare been absolutely
dead weight and dead beat in the so
ciety ef the world, feeding upoa the beat
that the earth afforded, and never lift
ing a finger to produce a perk of wheat,
neasur of cum, a pint of beans, or a
bill of potatoes!
