3fp
ir JL
Sjr, have yon a fnraithtd or un
furnished room for rent? Adver
tit it in The Sun and let it be
bringing yon in something.
V
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
PItlCE, 5c.
Spectacular Musical-Camp Fire Girls-Jan. 14, 2d Baptist Church
I
Vftr.lTMl? V1TT VTTMTIWW 1 k ir l Vli ci lTrmr nt tcidtttt nimirnnur . . . '
T ViJUJUJU T jljlj.. HUHUJUil JIU. tilll. ilUSOUUIU. RATI II IAV. . Al AKV S llllt
- S 1 - Aa.AV.Jh V A. 1 JL '
- a.
-
"ft
IT CAN BE DONE.
.Somebody said that It couldn't be
done,
But he, with achucklc, replied
Tiiat "maybe It couldn't," but he
would be one
Who wouldn't say bo till he'd tried,
So lie buckled right In, with the trace
of a grin
On his face. If he worled, he hid It
He started to sing as he tackled the
thing
That couldn't be done, and he did It,
Somebody scoffed: "0hv you'll never
do that; S
At least no one.ver has done It."
But he took oft'lils coat and he took
of his Jidt.
And thefirst thing wo knew he'd
began it:
With the' lift of his chin, and a bit of
a grin,
wthout any doubting or qulddlt;
He 'started to sing as he tackled the
thing
That couldn't be done, and he did it,
There are thousands to tell you It can
not be done,
There are thousands to prophesy
failure;
There are thousands to point out to
you, one by one.
Tho dangers that wait to assail you;
But just buckle In with a bit of a grin
Then take off your coat and go to It;
Just start' in to sing as you tackle the
thing
That "can not be done," and you'll
do it.
Unidentified.
Rev Wm. 'H. Thomas, D. D., whose
magnificent address at the Emanclpa
tlon celebration, New Year's Day, in
Lincoln High School Auditorium, again
clearly demonstrated that In the for.
enslc field of oratory and eloquence
he Is without a peer and easily es
tablished himself In the minds of those
who heard him as the most potent
and invincible orator, scholar and
thinker of the race. The race is proud
of Dr. Thomas.
$20,000 GIVEN TO THE OLD CITY
HOSPITAL.
By way of celebration of the pass
ing of the city bonds and the good that
wJU result therefrom for the old city
hospital, the mayor was entertained
at that Institution Saturday evening
with a "possum" snpper.. Other guests
were the memebers of the hospital
and health board, the health commis
sioner, the superintendent of the gen
eral hospital, city comptroller, the
mayor's secretary. The "possum" was
accompanied by such 'delicacies as
sweet potatoes and pumpkin pie that
served to make it a real Southern re
past. The hospital staff- Is very Jubi
lant over the fact that Instead of the
seven thousand dollars originally
asked for through the earnest solici
tation of Dr, Thompklns and the ef
forts of Mr. Finn, president of the
hospital and health board, the city
comptroller succeeded In raising that
amount to twenty thousand dollars.
This sum will mean the accomplish
ment of many Improvements to the ad
vantage of our people, some of which
are granitoid walks from the street
to all the buildings, electricity. In the
nurses' home, an X-ray machine, the
conversion of all the porches into
sanitorlums, which will mean the ac
commodation of one hundred more
beds, the remodeling of the tuberculo
sis pavilion and the transference of
all such patients there; a completely
equipped children's ward, linoleum for
all tho wards'and hardwood floors for
the halls; besides complete redecora
tlon of tho building, passenger eleva
tor Installed in the building. It Is
expected that all this will be com
pleted bofore the meeting here next
summer of the National Medical Association,
Prof. John M. Marquess, the erudite and -brilliant principal of Sumner High
Scho6l, Kansas City, Kansas, Grand Secretary of the Prince Hall Grand
Lodge, A. F. . A. M., of Kansas and a churchman, orator, singer nad
educator, who In each of these varied lines has no superior in the
West. His magnificent address at the Emancipation Celebration New
Year's day at the Lincoln High School Auditorium was an epic, and in
thought, oratory and expression has rarely been equalled. A leader In
athletics In college days, a slngeer with international reputation while
a member of the famous Flske Jubilee Singers, and a class orator at
his Alma Mater, has left an Impression that has lingered until this
day. The mere fact that he has brought Kansas City, Kansas, High
School to a degree of efficiency attained by no other high school In a
city of equal population is a demonstration of his organizing ability,
and the citizens of Kansas are no more proud of the splendid character
and courage an dability of Prof. Marquess than are the progressive, a
ggresslve and reputable citizens of Missouri, to whom he Is Just as ne
edful and as valuable as to those of his own state. The Sun hopes
to be able to produce the masterly address by Prof. Marquess.
of the Emancipation Proclamation by
Miss Magnolia Lewis, and the ad
dress of the occasion by Rev. WJlllam
H. Thomas and Prof. John M. Mar
quess; "Swanee River" was very hap
pily rendered by Professor Reynolds,
and the whole audience joined in sing
ing "Battle Hymn of the Republic."
About 400 of Kansas City's representa
tive citizens were in attendance and
nothing but commendation-was heard
at the close of the most excellent pro
gram.
The editor succumbed to the grippe
epidemic last Sunday and was con
fined to his home until Thursday, com
pelling him to cancel several engagements.
BAND. CONCERT 'AND MILITARY
DRILL
Friday, January 14
By the Cadets of Western
University, including setting
up exercises Butts' Manual
and Infantry Drill Regula
tions. MAJOR N. CLARK SMITH.
Admission 25 cents.
Y. M. C. A. Auditorium, 1824 Paseo.
THE LYNCHING RECORD FOR 1915.
As head of the Division of Research
of the tho Tuskegee Institute, I co
operated with the late Dr. Booker T.
Washington, princlp'al, In keeping an
annual record of all lynchlngs In the
United States, which record was sent
by him from time to time to the pub
lic press. According to this record,
there have been, during the year just
closed, CD lynchlngs. Of those lynched
55 were Negroes and 14 whites. This
Is six more Negnbes and 11 more
whites than were put to death by
mobs in 1914, when the record was
49 Negroes and 3 whites. Included in
the record are three women. In at
least four instances it later developed
that the persons put to death were in
nocent of the ofences charged. Eigh
teen, or more than one-fourth of the
total lynchlngs, ocurred In the State
of Georgia.
Only 11, ten Negroes and one white,
of those put to death, or fifteen per
cent of the totnl, were charged with
rape. Other offences and number
lynched for werei .Murder, 17; five
whites nnd twleve'Bgroes; killing of
ficers or Uifyl4v&9';. three whites and
six iNegraes; wounumg omcers or tne
law, 3; clubbing oflcer of the law, a
family i'Sf'"four, father, son and two
daughters; poisoning mules, 3; steal
ing hogs, 2, white; disregarding warn
nigs of night riders, 2, white; Insult
In women, 3; entering women's rooms,
2; wounding a man, 2; stealing meat,
1; burglary, 2; robbery, 1; looting,
1; stealing cotton, 1; charged with
stealing a cow, 1; furnishing ammuni
tion to man resisting arrest, 2; beat
ing wife and child,? 1. white; charged
with being accessory to the burlng
of a barn, 1. ,
Ynchings occurred, 'in the following
states: Alabama 9, Arkansas 5, Flor
ida 5, Georgia 18, Illinois '1, Kentucky
5, Louisiana 2, Mississippi 9, Missouri
2, Ohio 1, Oklahoma 3, South Carolina
1, Tennessee 2, Texas 5, Virginia 1.
MONROE N. WORK,
Division of Records and Research,
Tuskegee Institute, Alabama.
BIG CAMP FIRE GIRLS ENTER-
TAINMENT.
6 The Camp Fire Girls Will Give
THE MOST PRETENTIOUS E -,
TERTAINftffiNT
You Have Ever Witnessed
JANUARY -.4, 1915
At the
SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH.
SOLOMON SMITH, President of Colored People's Investment Co.,
one of the prospective candidates for delegate to the Annual Conference to be
held In St. Louis in 1916. He desires all members and friends of the Centen
nlel M. E. Church, 19th and Woodland, to be present at the final election of
delegates which will be decided in a meeting on January 20, 8 p. m., at the
above named church. Don't forget to come out.
A NOBLE MAN.
That Charles D. Frazier of the El
Tovar, Grand Canyon, Is one of the
most generous hearted as wel a3 one
of the most lovable men of the race
has been amply demonstrated on a
number of occasions to those who
know him in Kansas City. Previous to
the holidays he sent to both the editor
and his wife a handsome and valuable
present as likewise he did to Dr.
Thomas and wife, James H. Crews and
wifev Grand Secretary Love and wife
and several others and only yesterday
demonstrating his loyalty to his hace
along all lines of endeavor he sent the
Grand Master a year's dues for his
chapter, a year's dues for his Com
mandery, a year's subscription to The
Sun and a year's membership to the
Y. M. C. A. and says tho reason he
does these things is because God has
been good to him and he desires as
far as possible to help make happy the
lives of others. God grant that there
may be more men of the race inspired
with the high and lofty Ideals of Chas.
D. Frazier.
Dr. G. W. Brown, the well known
physician and one of the most skill
ful among our professional men, pre
sented the editor and his wife a big
fat, luscious possum during the holi
days, which the editor had prepared
by that prince of caterers, A. W. Har
ris, 2208 Vine street, along with the
sweet potatoes and other fixln's until
it was fit for the gods. Dr. Brown
has bagged thirty-four possums,
twelve coons and innumerable rabbits
during this hunting season, and has
all the boys envying his skill as a
nlmrod.
THE EMANCIPATION CELEBRA
TION. Tho Emancipation Celebration held
In Lincoln High school auditorium at
high noon New Year's day was large
ly attended and was of a higher Intel
lectual and musical standard than any
like celebration held In this city in
recent years. Tho managers should
be highly complimented for the fine
program rendered and the distinguish
ed (alent secured for the occasion,
Hon. C. H. Calloway called the meet
ing to order and In a befitting manner
Introduced Dr. J. Edgar Dibble as mas
ter of ceremonies who Immediately
began tho program with a selection by
the High (school orchestra, prayer by
Dr. J Frank McDonald, editor of the
Western Christian Recorder; reading
ANNUAL
1
of our Old Subscribers who are square
29OQO New Subscribers can secure the
SUN the Best Negro " 'Newspaper publish
ed in the West for $f.O for the yar ism.
VINE ST. BILL SHOWER ENDS.
For a Week Two Brothers Left a Trail
of Currency.
Unfortunately, the oney Was Unsign
ed and Police Traced the Theft to
an Oklahoma Bank Smiles Fade
With Golden Dream.
Vine street's recent and sudden
wave of prosperity came to an abrupt
end last night with the arrest of two
Negroes, Horace Bruce and Haya
Bruce, brothers.
Crap games, saloons and pool halls
along the thoroughfare have been
flooded with brand new $10 and $20
bills for a week. There was one de
fect In the bills, they were unsigned;
but that had passed unnoticed. They
were new and crisp and looked per
fectly good, but today they are being
gathered up by the police.
The bills belonged to the National
Exchange Bank of Muskogee, Ok.
They were sent by express from the
United States treasury to the bank
three weeks ago.
From Brother to Brother.
Green Bruce, a porter in the bank,
was sent to the express office to get
the package of bills. On the way back
to the bank he stopped In at the court
house to listen to the trial of several
of his Negro friends. The proceedings
were dull and Green went to sleep.
When he awoke the bills were cone.
He reported the loss to the bank and
was arrested.
A few days later his brother, Horace
Bruce, quit his job in a cotton oil mill
and came to Kansas City. He arrived
at the home of another brother, Hays,
101G Michigan avenue, late one night.
"We don't have to work any more,"
he informed Hays, and threw $900 In
bills In his lap. He explained that he
had found the package of money' on
the railroad track near Muskogee.
A Career of Affluence.
With the new affluence the brothers
started out to enjoy life. They
bought fur-collared overcoats, high
hats, gorgeous shirts and cheap jew
elry. What didn't go for clothing was
distributed In saloons, pool halls and
crap games. Hays had been a porter
in a saloon, but he quit that Job for
the more pleasing task of spending
money.
In the meantime the police here had
been informed of the bank's loss. J.
T. Hughes and J. W. Bailey, Negro pa
trolmen, were assigned to the case.
They heard of the wave of prosperity
on Vine street and arrested the two
brothers.
A search of Bruce's home revealed
$611 In various hiding places. Most of
it was in the unsigned bills. Nearly
$200 more of the bills were gathered
up from saloons and pool halls.
Hayes Bruce was released but tbo
other brother was carried back to Mus
kogee for trial.
REVIVAL AT ALLEN CHAPEL.
Rev. S. L. Howard, D. D., of Nash
vllle, Tenn., Secretary of the Evange
listic Bureau of the A. M. E. Church,
is conducting revival meeting at Allen
Chapel. Sunday a chorus of 100 voices
will sing Billy Sunday's great revival
hymns No. 2 at both morning and even
ing services. Dr. Howard will preach.
Come and bring a friend.
MUST BE PAID IN ADVANCE
THIS REDUCED RATE HOLDS GOOD ONLY TO JAN. 31
ubscribe or Renew Now
CALL UF OR GOME TO OUR OFFICE
Every person sending us five new subscribers will
receive the SUN free for ISIS or 91. OO in cash
Hurry! S
WRITS,
A CHANCE FOR SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS TO EARN SOME MONEY!
SAY BROTHER1 Have you seen
the beautiful tri-colored cards, letter
heads, bill heads and beautiful artis
tic work A. W. Harris, the commercial
i printer, 1515 East 18th St., has been
w.i bi.w IbWVIIUl 1 . o
the finest ever. His phone is Bell
East 2782. Call him and he'll tell you
all about the cost of them.
Write for sample copies. NELSON C. CREWS9 Editor
Bell Phone East 999. 1803 East Eighteenth Street, Kansas City, Mo.
REV. SISTER PEARL, D. D.,
the forceful and tireless missionary
worker spent a detlahtful Christmas
and New Year with her sister, Mrs.
Grace L. Clark, 1931 McGee street, and
with her many other friends In this
city. Sister Pearl received many nlco
presents from friends both in and out
,of the city. She left here January 5
in answer to a call In Battle Creek.
Mich., where she will conduct a series
of meetings. Reservation and travel
ing expenses were forwarded her and
her lady traveling companion. Sister
Pearl Is an extensive traveler and her
noble work and achievements for good
have merited fame and admiration
from some of the foremost men and
'women and not unfrequently whites lt
whom she has preached. The follow
ing are tome, forceful and helpful
Scripture lessona which 81ster Pear)
(would be pleased to have her many,
friend read while thinking of hr:
'J
f
