THE BARBIE DAILY- TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 252.
UAIUIE, : VKKMOXT. SATUMMV, JANUARY 8, 1916.
PJUCK, ONE CENT.
BRITISH. CHECK
GERMAN DRIVE
ON WESf FRONT
Russians Are Pressing Their
Offensive in the Eastern
Arena and Claim to Hold
the Town of Czartorysk,
Although the Austrians
Are Resisting Desperately
TENSION RELIEVED
WHEN NOTES CAME
ALLIES BOMBARD
TURKISH NARROWS
Latest Attack Was Made
from Both Land and Sea
Week-end Adjournment
of British Parliament Has
Brought a Lull in Contro
versy over the Compulsory
Service Bill ,
London, .Tan. 8. The Russian offen
sive still occupies the most important
place at present in the war news. Tho
capture of Czartorysk is the latest
achievement reported. The Russians
claim they hold the village. The Aus
trians apparently are fighting desperate
ly in this region in an effort to hold
their positions. 1
German attacks are reported oh the
British front, which the British claim
they repulsed.
Constantinople reports that the allies
again bombarded the narrows' from the
land and the sea. '
The week-end adjournment of Parlia
ment brought a lull in the controversy
over compulsory military service.
FIRED 400 GUNS 50 HOURS.
Russians Made Terrific Bombardment of
Ciernowit2.
London, Jan. 8. Some idea of the de
termined nature of the Russian blow
on the Bessarabian front is conveyed by
Tetrograd dispatches which state that
the Russians for 50 hours concentrated
400 guns on the AustrianV positions, at
Czernowits as a preparation for an in
fantry attack. "The Russian communi
cations do not yet clnim that Czerno
witz has fallen, but dispatches from
German sources admit their position
there is critical.
It is not yet clear whether the Rus
sian operations in this theatre herald a
general offef sive by all the Russian
armies from the Baltic to the Rumanian
border, or indicate merely a diversion of
unparalleled magnitude .and fierceness
designed to weaken the pressure of the
central powers in the Balkans and in
identally on the Italian front. The
righting lias been of the most bitter
character, according to both the Aus
trian and Russian reports. Few prison
ers are "being taken, and the infantry
engagements are largely in the nature
of hand-to-hand encounters.
All of the Russian operations thus far
revealed are being pressed along the
railway lines, which simplify the prob
lems of the winter supply of food, am
munition and fuel.
MORE ITALIAN
TROOPS CALLED
Four Classes of Reservists Have Been
Ordered to Report Next Wednes- .
day for Syvicc.
Rome, Jan. 8. Soldiers born in 1S82
and 1883, who belong to the field, fort
ress and coast artillery companies, and
those bom in 1SS7 and 1888, who, are
attached to the mountain Artillery, were
recalled to the colors to-day, to report
next Wednesday. '
ANCONA LIFEBOAT
One Proposing to Pay Indemnity for
. American Live Lost on tho Lusi
tania, Other to Instruct Sub
marine Commander to
Clvo Warning of
Attack.
Washington, D. C," Jan.' 8. Two com
municatioiia from Germany reached tli
L'nited States -yesterday one contain
nig a proposal to pay an indemnity
for the Americans loft hi the Lusitania
disaster, which may bring negotiations
on that subject to a conclusion, and the
oilier conveying assurance that lerman
submarines commanders, operating
the Mediterranean would not torpedo
non-combatant ships of any character
without warning them and according
safety to their passenuers and crews,
Tho communications were delivered to
Secretary Lansing by Count Yon Berns
torlf, the German ambassador. The sec'
rotary immediately sent them to lYesi-
uent Hson.
Tension regarding the entire aubma
rine question Deemed to have lessened
considerably. Austria, in its reply to
the last Ancona note, having assured
the United States of its intentions to
operate submarines with due regard for
international law and the principles of
humanity, Turkey and Bulgaria it is
understood next will take steps to give
such guarantees. Jt is stated authonU
tively that Germany and Austria-Hun
gary will use their inllucnce to accora
plish this end.
The Lusitania controversy, except for
tho wording of the agreement to be en
tered into, is considered in Teutonic cir
cles here virtually ended.
Lnder the terms of the proposal sub
mitted for the approval of the United
States, Germany, while offering to pay
an indemnity, makes the reservation that
no admission of wrongdoing thereby Is
involved.. It is contended that the Lusi
tania was sunk as an act of reprisal fur
the British blockade of Germauy.
While Secretary Lansing is understood
not to have indicated to Count Von
BernKorff whether the proposal was sat
isfactory, a number of oflicials in a po
sition to be familiar with the American
attitude' indicated that it would ,be ac
cepted. "
lhe assurance regarding the conduct
ot submarine warfare in the Mediter
ranean obviously prompted by the sink
ing of the British steamship Persia, with
a loss of two American lives,' are much
broader in their scope than the prom
ises made after the Lusitania disaster
covering tho operations of submariues in
the .North sea and adjacent waters. The
latter guaranteed only that "liners"
should be immune from attack without
warning. The assurance regarding' the
Mediterranean operations include pri
vately owned ships of every character.
freight as well as passenger vessels, pro
vided of course, they do not attempt to
escape or offer resistance. .
It was revealed yesterday, too, that
in the reply to the lust note regarding
the William r. rrye, the Berlin loreign
office agreed with the American view
that small boa cannot under all con
ditions be considered a place of safety
for persons leaving a ship about to be
attacked. . - ,
The German government, apparently
not certain whether a German submarine
sank the Persia, promised the United
State in yesterday's communication
that should it develop that such was
the case the matter will be investigated
and submitted to prize court proceedings,
and that if the commander disobeyed
his orders lie will be punished and repar
ation made for the death of or injuries
iu iiiiericun citizens.
Consideration of the German assur
ance and of the apparent attitude of
Austria-Hungary as reflected in dis
patches from Ambassador Pcnfield at
Vienna, led officials to believe that the
sinking of the Persia might not result
in dilliculties so grave as at first were
feared. Information regarding the cir
cumstances of the Persia still was lack
ing last night.
It was made clear at the state depart
ment yesterday that the position of the
United States in regard to Americans
having a right to travel on merchant
ships regardless of whether they were
armed for defense had not been changed.
TROOPS
PATROL
MILLS
Four Companies of the Ohio
State Militia on Duty in
Youngstown, Ohio, Where
Last Night Three Men
Wrere Killed and 19 Were
Wrounded $800,000 Dam
age Done by Fires Started
by Rioters
REIGN OF TERROR
ALL NIGHT. LONG
Police Unable to Control the
Crowd, and Gov. Willis
Ordered Troops Mobilized
at Youngstown -Mob Pre
vented Firemen from Ex
tinguishing the Fires in
Many Places
MAKES COMPLETE CONCESSION.
Germany's Note Relating Particularly to
the Frye Case.
Washington, I). C, Jan. 8. Germany's
note accepting the American contentions
that the mere placing of non-combatants
in lifeboats when a prize is to be de
stroyed ia under all condition to be re
garded as assuring them a place of safe
ty was made public to-day by the state
department.
The note is the latest communication
over the sinking of the American sailing
it irj CIIPT T HOT W"ara FT, "id besides mak-
liALt OllCiLiLi JlULiS ing complete concessions regarding the
question of small boats, takes up the
question of indemnity for the sunken
ship and for arbitrating the - disputed
provisions of the Prussian-American
treaty.
The Holes Had Been Stopped Up with
Shawls and Torn Skirts The Boat
Was Found by a Fish
ing Party.
Rome, Jan. 8. A fishing vessel put in
at Alzio yesterday with a lifeboat from
the steamship Ancona, which had been
picked up. An examination of the boat
seemed to confirm the assertion that it
was fired upon and sunk while contain
ing passengers, among them women, by
the Austrian submarine which torpedoed
the Ancona. - Many hairpins were found
in the boat and several hole, apparently
made by shells from the submarine, had
been topped up with shawls and torn
skirts.
FORD PEACE PARTY
IN AMSTERDAM
Reached There This Horning After Hav
ia Beta on German Soil for II
Honrs in Sealed Train.
Amfrdm, rU London, Jan. , Tho
Frd peac party arrived at Amsterdam
this morning on their way to Th Ilajrue,
after having bra-n on Orman oil in a
sealed train II boiir. Th mrmbrn of
CENSORING OF MAILS
IS PROTESTED
United States Sends Note to Great Brit
ain Asking for Stopping of Prac
tice of Tampering with Mail
to Neutral Countries.
Washington, I). C Jan. 8 The United
States has sent to Amliaanador Page at
London for presentation to the British"
government a note rigorously protest
ing against the British authorities in
teiferinjr with and censoring mails from
the l'nited States to neutral countries.
This action is based on complaints of
AmrrictM that their mail, destined for
neutral countries has Iwn seized and
removed from the ateamer.
SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION
Youngstown,'- O., Jan. 8. Fearing a
new outbreak ot noting this morning
when; strike sympathizers gathered, on
the hill opposite the Youngstown Sheet
Tube company plant, Brigadier General
Speaks ordered four Cleveland militia
companies to the scene. Two companies
entered the plant to reinforce the strike
guards. The other soldiers patrolled
nearby to prevent the mob from organ,
i.ing.
Let by Mayor Stough, 200 citizens of
Strutherk village, across the river from
East Youngstown, armed themselves and
massed on the bridge leading across the
river, readv to repel the threatened m
vasion of strikers. The men are armed
with rifles and revolvers.
Fifty pounds of dynamite ha been
placed under tho bridge and a wire is
ready to carry a current to set off a
blast thnt will blow up the bridge the
moment the mob starts across. '
General Speaks received an appeal
from Struthers citizen to send help im
mediately for protection from rioting in
that city. The message stated that a
mob had formed and engaged in a gen
eral fight on .the streets. Men 'were
shooting and beating each other. Gen
eral Speaks quickly sent two companies
of militia to Strutjiers in automobiles.
During ' the trouble last night three
persons were killed, 1!) persons, includ
ing a woman, were injured and more
than 15 buildings were burned with a
loss estimated at $800,000. The trouble
was the culmination of a strike of la-
f borers which began at. the plant of the
Republic Iron & Steel company a week
ago and spread to the plants of the
Tube company, the Youngstown Iron &
Steel company, and the Brier Hills Steel
comtany, all "independent" concerns.
The men demand 25 cents an hour; the
companies offer an increase from l!)'a
to 22 cents. '
A crowd of 6,000 gathered last night
at the entrance of the works and stoned
a squad of private police In charge of
Chief J. M. Woltz of the Sheet 4 Tube
company's force. , . .
According to a statement made by
Woltz he fired a blank shoi to scare
tho crowd and then firing became gen
eral. Nineteen in the crowd , were
wounded, after which, the mob, frenzied, j
surged into the Kast Youngstown busl- i
ness district ami set lire to several
buildings. As the torch was applied
first to a clothing store and then to a
jewelry store, the looting began. A sa
loon was fired and looted, the liquor be
ing distributed through the crowd.
The Youngstown fire department went
to the scene of the fires but was driven
off by the crowd. The Kast Youngs
town department also attempted to
check the blaze, but the hose was cut
snd the firemen driven " away. The
flames quickly spread and more than 15
buildings were destroyed. More than
20 families are reported homeless as a
result of the fire.
Sheriff Cmstead found the situation
beyond his control and asked that state
troops be sent-here. Governor Willis!
ordered the 5th regiment with head
quarters at Cleveland, and the 8th regi
ment with headquarters at Rucyni. to
this city. The 4tb regiment at Colum
bus was ordered to motilie and move
to the scene of the trouble as soon as
possible.
Shortly before midnight mob leaders
broke into a freight car containing .Vxi
pounds of dynamite. They took the
dynamite and started toward ths resi
dential part of Kast Youngidown, de
claring they would blow that section of
the city to piece.
An unidentified foreigner ws seen
looting the poMoffiee building shortly
before fire det roved the "trui-tur. A
policeman shot the man in the right leg.
Rioter broke into s saloon m Vilon
street snd carried awsy hundreds of
d"l!ars worth of bottled wine. Nsr and
whi'key. After looting the saloon they
destroyed the building by fire.
JURY DEADLOCKED
IN NEW HAVEN CASE
Still Out This Forenoon, Although Cast
Was Given to Them Yesterday Aft
trnoon After a Long Trial.
New York, Jan. 8. The jury waa still
out this forenoon in the Sherman law
conspiracy rasa against William Rtwko
feller and ten other former directors o
the New York. New Haven &. Iurtfnp
railroad- The case Was submitted to
them yesterday afternoon at 1 130,
The jury in the New Haven case ar
rived in court at 10 o'clock and re-
Binned their deliberations. Many ru
mors are afloat.
Shortly before 1 1 o'clock the jury sent
for additional exhibits, several of which
relatod to the .participation of William
Rockefeller in 'the alleged conspiracy,
Judue Hunt awaited the verdict, but
there is no indication when It might
be returned.
dudifo Hunt's case was regarded by
many in the court-room as" favorable for
the defense. He held that the jurors
must first satisfy thonisolvcs that the
alleged conspiracy to monopolize the
commerce in New j-.ngianti must nave
been continuous from the date named in
the indictment that of the enactment
of the Sherman law; 1890--untlI the date
the Indictment was found. Otherwise,
the irovernment's case failed, he said:
. . . .
The defendants in that event must be
acquitted, he held, "no matter how guilty
they might be thought to lie of other
crimes not named in the indictment."
Also the case failed if the juror found
that the conspiracy erased befor the
three-year period covered by the statute
of limitations, the court stated.
The point the court made in consider
ing the question of the alleged illegal
agreement which the New Haven made
with the Grand Trunk railway ot lanada
within that period. One of the alleged
llegal acts, the so-called tripartite agree
ment, in which the New Haven partici
pated almost at the beginning of the al-
ged conspiracy, the court held not to
be inviolation of the law. i
The mere magnitude of the Nev Ha
ven, the jury was not to consider said the
court. s
Large enterprise not .used to effect
monopoly, he said, "but only to add elli
ciency, may in a certain sensr monopo-
lze, but the magnitude of a corporation s
business, although it may carry with it
incidentally the acquisition of great pow
er and enable prices to be regulated, is
not a monopoly or an attempt to monop
olize which the statute condemned."
JURY'S VERDICT
FREESPEASLEE
Was Accused of Murdering
His Father at Henniker,
N. 11, May 22, 1914
ACQUITTAL DECIDED
ON AFTER FIVE HOURS
Jury Reported; in Concord,
N. II., Court Early
This Morning
MURDERER DIED
BESIDE WOMAN
HE HAD
HOSPITAL WORK BY LADIES
Reported at the Annual Meeting of Hos
pital Aid Association.
The annual meeting of the Hospital
Aid association was held in Aldrich hall
Friday afternoon. Reports of the year's
work were given and officers elected for
the coming year. The work for the past
year ha been along the lilies of helping
in the equipment of tho new hospital
The complete furnishing of the maternity
ward, at a cost of 375, was undertaken,
and (150 ha been paid. Household sup
plies have been purchased and made as
follows: Sheets, pillow cases, towels,
BLAMED THE RAILROAD.
By Marching Out in Good Order When
Fire Broke Out in Their School
Building at Marlboro,
Mass.
For What Ever Freight Congestion May
Exist in New England.
Boston, Jan. 8. The freight situation
New England, which has resulted in
an embargo on many lines of shipments,
was discussed by railroad officials, port
directors and business men at a con
ference called by the transportation com
mittee of the Chamber of Commerce.
The port directors expressed tlw belief
that the real difficiency was, th absence j tta mpg originated in an ain
of sufficient ocean hipping dua to the iiier In the basement. In
Concord, N. n., Jan. 8. Morrison H.
Peaslee was acquitted of the murder of
his father, Howard Peaslee, at Henniker,
II., May 22, 1914. The jury returned Light shirts, night iowns, kimonos, bath
the verdict at 2:25 this morning, after robes, bureau covers and some table lin
havlmr been out since 0:40 last niirht. en. Drspery curtain throughout the
In his final charge, Judge Branch, ac- buiming nave been mane, ana cinna ana
ouaintinir the iuror with the various silver have been purchased. A new edi
degrees of murder, said that a verdict tion of the hospital cook book ia about to
of murder in the first desrree would be issued.
carry w ith it . automatically a sentence There has been a gain in mombership
nf life imnridonmont unlr "with ean-lof 7 names, brincing the total to 4i0.
... .' ... ..... . . I rri 1 ! ! it rt I J
tal punishment" were specltirally adtleui in su-iiiBrie m jarre m n nave aiueu
n the iurv's verdict. Such a recom- materially in ui me wurn i me imici
mendation.' however, was made only inlation.
cases of great brutality, he said. BK day in October and the hospital
The court referred in several ways to oeneni aance in ovemoer were very sue-
tho alleged confession of Feaslee. He cessful. and a vote of thanks was given
said that society had "a riffht to resort by the ladies yesterday to the two corn-
to any means to nroteet itself aaainst mittees. who planned and carried out
' . . . .... I . a I. . i ...
crime" in. commenting on the criticism 1 aacn. a oie ui mibiikb wuh bihu jjirru
or tne oeteetive metiious. a coniession i winiiiiuicu m
obtained by detectives, without duress, busly to bag day, thereby .helping to
was local evidence, he instructed, addinir make of it the success that it was,
that it lav with the iuror alone to de- Officers elected for 1916 are as follows:
termine the credibility and reliability of President, Mrs. O. N. Granger; vice-pres-
the detectives who had testified. ident, Mrs. II. J. Slaytonj secretary, Mrs.
The appearance of County Solicitor George Mctarland; treasurer, Mis Alice
Murehie on the witness stand Judge Farnham; auditor, Mrs. Arthur lilden.
Jiranch characterized a '"unusual, but I miow me wui. iqm.i
not unheard of." and aaid that no im-l""
proper inference should be taken from Cash on hand Jan. 2, 1915 $408.09
the fact. . iiint.
Intoi-pst ... f .'. SlBJiS
136 GIRL PUPILS Membership dues 174.00
SHOT
Antonio 0 Infatuated
with Mr:. Luigi Lungo,
Fired Three Shots into
Her Body After She Had
Announced Her Intention
to Rejoin Her Husband,
Who Recently Went to
California
SHOOTING TOOK PLACE
IN WOMAN'S HOME
I M iHw11LniiiA
SAVED THEMSELVES Postal cards sold during
opening days
6.50
18.38
5.00
Cook book advertisement
Estimated value of sup-
plies, bag day 315.18
Masque carnival 200.00
withdrawal of so many vessels for war
purposes.
R. Van Vmmerson, of the Boston and
Albany, said that 6,400 cars were headed
for his road from connecting line. He
added that if the road had six tracks
it could handle the business.
George Wood, of the New York, New
Haven and Hartford, reported that 7,5i0
cars were consumed to points on his
line from places east of Pittsburg. A.
A. Crane, of the Boston and Maine, said
that between 3,000 and 4,000 ears wers
coming to his road from point east of
Buffalo.
Mr. Wood denied that the New Haven
was responsible- for any coal shortage
in New Kngland. He' expressed the opin
ion that relief from the general embar
go conditions would come n;ict week.'
Marlboro, Mass., Jan. 8. I ire in a
five-story .brick building occupied by
the Stannish academy for girls, drove
the 13(1 pupils from their class rooms
to-daV, but all escaped unhurt. The
irshaft near a
a few min-
Expenditures.
"$1,203.68
Printing
Sheetinc, cotton, ' linen
and scrim
Silverware for patients
and nurses
China for patients and
nurse
$L7
One Witness to the Shooting,
Luigi Gattaro, Fled Pre
cipitately from the Room
When Caffi Began Fusil
lade and Telephoned to
the Police Station Mrs.
Lungo Lived Only a Few
Hours .
utcs they worked their way throuch the
center of the lmildinir. li'Himr it with Bath robes for patients. .
smoke. It was finally subdued, but with Part payment furnishing
195.00
42.05
07.04
8.75
CUSTOMS COLLECTION
IN VERMONT BIG
Exportation Business Was the Largest
Since the Consolidation of the
Two Districts.
St. Albans, Jan. 8. In the customs
collect district of Vermont, No. 2, during
December, the total importations were
over .fii,0(K),uiiW. IJutles collected wer
P2.106.21 and exportations totalled $3,-
til,6N4. The exportation business was
a damage of $20,000. The girls fire j
drilled out without disorder.
room and
MILK RATES WILL
REINVESTIGATED
maternity
creche 150.00
Bag day supplies 315.18
Hairs and printing for
bag day 12.10 703.37
Balance on hand Jan..7,' '16
$410.31
MANY CASES SCRATCHED OFF.
Interstate Commerce Commission Orders
Action, Following Complaints
from New England Points.
Washington, I). C, Jan. 8. A general
investigation of the freight rates on
milk and cream between New England
points and the regulations of the Boston
& Maine and other railroads relating to
traffic was ordered to-day by the inter
state commerce commission. n ,)avi been commenced Thurs
comnlaints were filed and the dates for ,0 '.
And Wright Mfg Co. ys Eastern Fruit
and Nut Orchard Co. is Now On.
The case of Wright Manufacturing Co.
vs. Eastern Fruit and Nut Orchard Co,
brought to obtain payment for machin
ery which the defendant company ai
leges was unsatisfactory, was resumed
this .morning in Washington county
the hearings will be set later.
Iday afternoon.
Entries of discontinued have been
n. . .In In 41iA f.llrM'irir, i... anm IT .T Kluv.
SUDDEN DEATH AT M0NTPELIER. V. Camp, repievin; Maria
John Glinney, Aged 77, Father of Water
. Superintendent Glinney.
John Glinney, father of Water Super
intendent John J. Glinney of Montpelier,
died suddenly at 11 o'clock to-day at the
home of his son-in-law, Mr. Monahan,
31 Court street . in that city. James
Haley, another son-in-law, went to the
house this forenoon at 10 o'clock and,
the heaviest sine their consolidation, j noticing that .Mr. Glinney did not seem
The exportation in 1014 were a little
over $ffo0,0IX) and the importations $700,
Ml. -The duties collected were a little
over $9,00.
CHIMNEY WAS DEFECTIVE.
Death of a New York Judge.
New York. Jjn. K Just if John J.
r.rarty of the supreme court of New
Ynrk. died at his home here Ut nitrht
Said to Be Besponsible for Explosrvei
Factory Fire.
Mount I'nioa. Pa Jn. (. 4me of the
finishing mill of the .i.tn Explosive t ia hi K.'M rear. H.i trHi.en with
eompanv plant hrtr mm letrnvsl br I pneti mn i two wrk ajjo.
the prty prm-d eonfiVn-e that the fire U.t nii'ht. The k in -t imtr! at j JuMw I'.radr w bom in New York
pev r.t ;m-r.t i proninf. Th firrt io,ft. X liv- wrrr V.t anj the ' nd m a graduate vi I'irUlim nniver- j
puwie mwi in? at J r.e lisyae will te origin i llierNl la o fru-n fntne-1 ity. lie wa eir-i in -,tr miyrrmf
Farmhouse in Cornwall Was, Therefore,
' T. Destroyed.
, Cornwall, Jan. 8. The farmhouse
owned by Perry Thompson was de
stroyed by fire yesterday.. When the
fire was built in the kitchen stove flames
broke out around the stove-pipe in the
chambers. As the telephone was out of
order Mr. Thompson was obliged to go
to neighbors to jfet aid, but betore help
could get there the house was in flames.
Th family, 10 ia all, got out and part
of the furniture was saved. Tbe barn
caught, but fire-fighters subdued that
blaze.
FOUND IN BOSTON.
in
Albert Miller, Jr, Who is Wanted
Providence.
Boston, "Jan. 8. Albert P. Miller, jr,
the Providence investment broker, wa
rrested here to-day on a warrant charg
ing embezzlement of $7,3'ii. The police
circular yesterday allied that the
mount exceeded $3I0,(KI0. Miller waived
extradition and wa taken to Provi
dence, lie ha been misting since December.
u-cll -IKH in .Tnhn .1. (ilinnev. While
they were in the room, the old gentle
man passed away, probably from heart
trouble or a shock.
Mr. (ilinne was born in County Clare,
Ireland, 77 year ago and came to the
l'nited States and to Montpelier in 18ua.
He worked on a farm for a time be
tween Montpelier and Barre and later
entered the employ of Peek A Cum
mings' tannery concern. For the past
dozen year he bad been employed by
the Montpelier street department.
In 181!) Mr. Glinney married Elizabeth
Pexton. Three children were born to
them, John J. dinner, Mrs. James Ha
ley and Mrs. Mary Monahan. The last
named passed away at Montpelier last
fall, and Mra. Glinney died many year
ago.
The arrangements for the funeral
have not been completed.
NEWBURY MAN RE-ELECTED.
A. A.
SUES FLIER FOR DIVORCE.
Jjrkl et ek. t whiih V. twit ml na
Sjjo will I a.ked to o-vt L twi.
i'ii rommitK-n tv an
UmpTtur in the bu.idtng.
mm ia tlw
r-onrt berx-H
rrars.
Mrs. Grahame-White Petitions Court in
England.
London. Jan. $. Mr. Onude Or-hame-White,
wife of the well known
viator, tw is a fight commander
of tlie ml Bvl sir s.-rvk-e. ha lrd
a r-etittoa fur tut retiti;! f hrr cm-
Carleton Again Heads Vermont
Sugar Makers.
Brattleboro, Jan. 8 The Vermont Ma
ple Suear Makers' asooriation at it 23d
annual convention held yesterday, elect
ed the flioers: President, A. A. Carle
ton of West Newbury; vice presidents.
William i' York of Lincoln; A. M. Jeaae
of Berkshire; treasurer, G. K. Merritield
of Townheml; secretary, H. B. "ha pin
of Midillchury ; auditor, I . II. North
rop. IL W. Vail, who declined a re
election a treasurer, wa elected an
honorary member of the association. The
place fr holding the next convention
aa left to the oflicer. A sugeestion
to ri the standard of sugar was dis-
cuMed, but no a tia wa taken.
Cassellini v. Stephano Commetta; Ed
ward H. Deavitt vs. A. C. Blanchard,
book account; W. E. Backus vs. J. L.
Sloeum, apt., general .assumpsit; Clar
ence Phelps vs. George Morse et al, gen
eral assumpsit; Percy Lee, by next
friend vs. George Morse ct al, general
assumpsit; I). A. Perry Real Entnte
agencj' vs. Lillian Sowden and Lillian
Nowdeu. adm., and Granite Savings Bank
A. Trust Co., trustee; Boston Construc
tion Co. vs. Charles H. Thompson, case;
Plumlcy & riumley vs. E. B. Ellis Gran
ite Co., and Central Vermunt, ' Bethel
(iranite R. R. and Woodbury Granite
Co., general assumpsit,' defaulted; 8.
Hollister Jackson vs. Joseph Charles, et
al, apta., judgment for account.
MANY PUBLIC BEQUESTS.
A double shooting tragedy occurred at
10 Third street at 7 o'clock last evening
with fatal results for Mrs. Luigi Lungo,
who lived at that address, and Antonioj
Caffi, aged 30, a granite cutter living at
44 Circle street, whom the, police de
scribe as Mrs. Lungo's infatuated lover.
Three shots fired at Mrs. Lmgo from a
revolver in Cafli's hand took effect and
735.59 llt.r death occurred at the City hosnital
this morning at 2:30 o'clock. Immedi
ately after shooting Mrs. tungo, Caffi
turned the revolver on himself and sent
bullet into his brain. Death was in
stantaneous. Luigi Gattaro, a boarder,
wns the only witness to the shooting
and lie' made haste to leave tho apart
ments as soon as Caffi fired the first shot
at Mrs. Lungo.
An emergency telephone call at police
headquarters was the first intimation of
tho shooting that the police received.
The call came from Gattaro a few min- -utcs
after 7 o'clock and the police were '
quick to respond. In .falling, Cafli's
body lay over that of his'vietim, so that
when the police arrived both Caffi and
Mrs. Lungo were lving in a pool of
blood. Mrs. Lungo was breathing and
Officer Dincen, who was the first of the
police to arrive, extricated her bodv
from the death clutches of Caffi and
wrapped her in a quilt.
1'hvsK'ians soon arrived and then the
woman was taken to the hospital in an
ambulance. Grand Juror William Wish-.,
art, who was to lie joined later by
State's Attorney F. E. Gleason, conduct
ed a rigid examination of the apart- ' ,
ments before the body of Cafli was per
mitted to be moved to an Undertaking
eKtaldishment. l"he boarder, Gattaro,
aided the authorities greatly in obtain
ing the first connected story of the
shooting. Gattjjro's statement, that
Caffi, after having words with the Lungo
woman, who came out of the pantry aa
Cafli entered the apartments, hurried
across the kitchen and hred on 31rs.
Lungo at short range, was borne out by
the fact that powder marks showed
plainly on her clothes in the three places
where the bullets entered.
A .38-calibre revolver, covered with
blood, was found near Cafli's right hnnd ,
as it lay on the floor.- Its five chambers
had been emptied, three of them being
used on tho woman, mid one on her mur
derer. It is believed that Caffi fired wild
when he first directed the niiu.le of the
gun toward his own head, for a bullet
was found in the ceiling lirectly over
the table.
From the outset it was seen that Mrs.
Lungo's wounds would nd fatally. Be
fore she wa removed to the hospital
she talked irrationally of Caffi and of
her husband. After she had been trans
ferred to the hospital she xvas conscious
only at intervals. So critical was her
condition that the doctors did not deem
it wise to probe for the bullets. Once
when tlve state's attorney endeavored to
jret a statement from her, "he replied
only with short answers and then grew
silent. Soon after midnight she sank
into a coma ami Cid not speak after
that.
Her body was t.iken to the Perry &
Noonan undertaking establishment, aft
er the undertakers had obtained permis
sion from the authoritie to proceed
with nrensrnt ion. for luirial. Fricnil
I of the Lungo familv said to-dar that
Were Left By Phobe A. Statson, Late of
BuTlington.
Burlington, Jan. 8. The will of the
late Phebe A. Statson of Burlington,
which wa proved at the probate office
yesterday, 'contains several bequests, as
well as numerous bequests to relatives.
The local bequests are one of $1,000
to the First Church of this city, one of
$500 for the benevolent fund of the same
church, one of $.KKI to the home for
aged women, and one of $J50 for the
home for destitute children. Other pub
lic bequests are one for sM) for the
Coninvirational Woman's Home Mis
sionary I'nion of Vermont, one of f 1,000
to the American hoard of foreign mis
sions, one-halt to b tler lOr worn in " en uri iwnir mime io i.nnie me
China, and the other'half for work in huhand in Raymond. ( al.. where he ha
India, one of fl.omt for the Moody been working for the pat month. It
schools at Northfleld. Ms.: one of .Vsn( wa thought tht b- would forwsr.1 in-
for Lincoln Memorial university of C urn-1 M ruction for the dipofition of tho re-
berland (p, lenn., one or f.nsi
in l;'7 far a term .f I4'j?al ng'.U. an aeth-n r-k md r;l
ia th wtluU to a suit fur iitora
Hurt by Fall Throng Scuttle.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. . A. Roy Taft.
a milk ieW and rral rtate holler of
thr plaef, ia suffering from a fall
throus1 a scuttle in bis torn. One
(.! i ter dihtl and titer wer
nthar tvi
one ot f.HSi jor
Ward academy of South ikot. om of
f.VSI for I)oreheter academy at Thele.
t;a, and one of tIM for the Kurn Hat
tin homes of Wentminster.
DIED OF PNEUMONIA.
main. Acquaintance of t am plan to
make arrangement for hi funeral.
Crime Started ia Marital Troubles.
That Caffi caiae to die by hi own
hand in a tit of jcnUm rL'e and tht
the I.uneo womsn htim of hi
jeloity seem firmly rth!ihed. An
exhaustive inquiry by ttie prand juror.
Patrick J. Collins Fourth of Hi Family I Mates attorney nl the pnjee
U Succumb t. That D.ese. to nmfirm l' fir t -eory that C e
I rime had it U-j.'inmnj2 m niI'1l
Rurlineton. Jan. 8. Patrick J. Col
lin. (red 42, an npre ntevsenper on
the mute between Purlinrton ami lg
de tlx! rs on th Rutland railrnnd. died
trouble. I'ntil a few montli acn the
Lnnt'O lived in a tenement near I'iwiiV
m:!l on upper V al,iii-tn street. Ac
onaintanoe of tue fan.i!v riiii Ct
t hi borne here this roornme of t iwii- J t Ti attempted r-peteiiiv to fore In
. out ,ne I n tenth T c.
noma. He I IM imnii member ot tll
family to die of that uee. a
