Lost or Fo u n J
T-D Want Ads Will Help You
Find It?Randolph One
Our W oman's Page
l he Cleverest of Fashion Cuts,
Useful Hints, etc.
66th YEAR
VOM/MK 00
M MIIICH 23
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1916.-TEN PAGES.
I.A III Kit
?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
House Committee Expected to
Recommend Adoption of
Compromise Plan.
BUSY WEEK STARTS TO-DAY
Three Big Issues Are on Calen
dar for Public Hear
ings.
Unions tli< re is u derided change In
the sentiment of Its members. Ihe
Housy Committee. on tin- Chesapeake
find It* Tributaries will rei'omtncnil for
pasnngf a l j i ] i embodying the com
promise plan for adjusting 'he seed
oyster controvi'sy that hits been sug
gested by the Commission of Fisheries
in its- special report to tlie Governor.
The committee will meet at 1 o'clock
this afternoon to prepare it;< recom
iiKndaMon.s. Oyster toners, in whose
behalf there has been Introduced a bill
repeal!up the present law which for
bids the shipment of seoji oysters out
<>! the State, hnve refrained front cotn
mentlng "ii the commission's rom
promtse plan, but It Ik understood that
they :irr prepared to aenpt it If t?,.>
passage of the more radical measure
cannot be secured.
.MAV TKMPOHAIIII-l 1.1 FT
ovstcu kmiimm.o
If the commission's su'gKCstioi '.> fol
low #d, the legislature will cloth- 11?j
body with power to suspend tem
poral ill tlie law forbidding the s'nip
ttient i.f seed oysters out of the State,
leavirnr ir to she commission to replace,
the embargo as soon as. in its JU'Ik
merit, tl-.i; I t'tfcstary to prevent the
depletion of the natural rocks. In all
probability, th? committee will repor
the repeal law with a substitute cm
hot! inir tl>.?. t ominission's plat:.
Chairman !!<?w, of th? House Com
?nitt? on the Chesapeake and ltd
Tributaries, wil) offer a bill this we# k
?'.'tir> :?i? nto ?? IT? ? ? t the r-cominenda
t <?: ? ??ntained 11? the ?/overt?#<:'s last
?!?!?; age that the ?-. f ser retar\ of
tlie Corunii*.- on "f Kisheri s be trans
formed Into tin- office # f assistant ?um
miHsii.iuT In -barge of th- sh<-:i-flsh in
terest! ??xclusivc!> Tins i-'..tnge ...
cords with tin- views of t,t-- ?'omniis
.sion :t?-lf and Is Indorsed in that
bo'la 'umI teport to th# < ?o'.eriifjr.
Th?- Oet.cral Assembly will begin to
?l.'i: v hat promises '<? be i.; far the
bust- : t. w>m k of tile present session.
Willi tin- Judgeship fight utn of th#'
way. and more than 10ft bills on the
House tir.d >ciiii!" #-ilcndnr.-i awaiting
disposition, the lawmaker* are con
fronteil with an ambitious schedule.
TIlltKi: It I?. IVSI !?>
i i' foh ii faui.\i;s
Upsides ih- recular meetings #if the
standing ? ???:i in 11: special hearings
are s-hedub 'l for the Torrens system,
co-ordinate cllecre at.d vame bills ?
three measures w)ti. h promise to loom
large in ih<- doba tes of the present
sessior. Th< Mouse Committee for
Courts of Justice will heat argument
for and af.--.it.st the Torrens bill at S
o'clock to-morrow night in the hall of
the Hottce of l>'i<-t;at>s The gain'
bill is set for a spei-inl hearing before
the House Committee- on the Chcsa
pen'.-:- and Its Tribu* an-s. also in t!?
House of lii'lt'nalcs, at -5 o'clock to
:n#irr<i v a ft < rnm >?.
Citizens from distant parts of the
.State are expected 1<> take part in the
discussiat: of the co-ordinate <ollege
bill, which will "be considered at a
Joint sitting of tin Senate Committee
on I'.ibln Institutions and Fd uc.it ion
and th'- House Cumniittce oi Schools
and Colleges. at ";3<* o'clock on Thurs
day afternoon The meeting will lie
held it: the hall of the House of Hclc
gaies It will be continued at ^ o'clock
ai night if it is found that the after
noon meeting has not afforded every
interested person an opportunity to be
heard.
cnt.i.rcr.rc i?k has
STItO.Mi IOI.I,(HVI\li
Friends of the co-ordinate college
bill believe that the imasure has this
year a stronger following than ever.
Klghtcen nictnbcis of the House have
indorsed the biil as patron---, the num
ber including Speaker Houston and
Floor I.cadet Willis. Aiiioiik its frlendr,
also, arc several o! the most prominent
leaders of tlie minority party.
At the recent Republican caucus. Sen
ator I?avin, of Franklin, offered a reso
lution which was adopted unanimously,
declaring ihe minority's dopp interest
In Ibe gm-eral cause of tin higher edu
cation of women in Virginia. The res
olution, which was offered after the
caucus had been addressed by Mrs. Rev
erie 15. Munford In the interest of the
co-ordinate college near the. University
of Virginia, 'li<l not specifically indorse
the college bill, but the minority mem
bers evidenced their interest in It, and
promised to give the measure their se
rious consideration.
In legislative haunts yesterday, gos
sip dealt merrily with the. apparently
impending breach in the prohibition
ranks. So far, only one prohibition bill
has been introduced-?the Strode Addi
son bill In the Senate. This measure, it
appears, does not accord with the views
held by loaders of the prohibition ma
jority, and will probably receive drastic
treatment at Ihe hands of the Senate
Committee on Moral and Social Wel
fare. to which- ft hns been referred.
KXPF.CT HITTISII FlfJTI'r
I.N IIAMIS OF "PIIVS"
Of greater moment, howevr. is the
question of creating the oflico of Coni
misfilonnr of Moral Welfare. A bill
providing for such an oflico la expected
to mpke Its appearance within the next
few days. The creation of the office has
been recommended by the legislative
committee of the Anti-Saloon J.casrue
of Virginia.
"If thin matter la pressed to an is
sue," said si prominent "dry" niemhor
of the (Jeneral Assembly last night,
(Continued on Second Page.)
nnmiCEn ma km ohas fares
via f>OTJ 1 Hf- UN HA1T-WAV from K"eb. 28 to
March f. New Orlenna. t2A.7A round trip;
Mnblln nml I'cnsneoln. $23. .15. Stopovers.
Lonsr limit. Kxrr-llont Frivlc*. Office 907
M. Main St. Plume. .Madison 272,
Turkish Submarine
Destroyed Persia
Ministry of Marine Said to Be
Preparing Statement Clearing
Up Tragedy of P. & 0. Liner.
LONDON*, January 23.?An Amster
'lam dlupateh to the Kxchange Tvle
I graph Company says:
"According to a Berlin report tho
? Turkish Ministry of Marine is aliout to
j publish ;i statement to tho effort that
;a Turkish submarine sank the steamer
I Persia.
"The report alleges that similar statc
I mentH are being published by the Ger
man and Austrian admiralties, it. being
i hoped by the central powers that such
a declaration will settle tl.o I*, rsia
question."
This dispatch has not been confirmed
from other sources.
i
Both the German and Ausiro-Ilun
' Parian governments have announced
I that the Peninsular and Oriental liner
' I'ersia was not sunk by one of their
submarines, and Investigations by the
diplomatic representatives of the
I'lilted States abroad have failed to re
veal the re-il cause of the disaster.
Unusual Interest was aroused in
; America by the sinking of this vc?scl
as one of the victims was Robert N.
t McNocly, of Monroe. N. C, who was en
route to Aden, to take up his duties as
American consul there.
The Persia was sunk of the island
of Crete. December 3n, with a loss of
11.% passengers and 217 members of the
crew. The vessel w-nt down within
, live minutes after a terrific explosion
jfoward. Nobooy on hoard claimed to
ihave seen a submarine.
"CHIEF SAM" IS HELD
l.i'ndcr of Propmrd Nc(tr? Colony on
finld Const, C'hnrKPii Wllh
^lanxlouRlitrr.
NKW VORK. January 23 ?"Chief
Albert T Sam. who. witli a party of
about *".on ?i?>:rro followers, sailed from
? 'Jalveston, Tex.. two years :'.l'o on *h??
Meatnshlp Liberia for the Gold Coast
of Africa, where he proposed to ?et
up a negro colony, is being held by the
British authority's In Africa, on sev
er.-*l charges, chief of which Is man
slaughter. according to the widow of
William II. Lewis, of Galveston, a mem
ber of the party, who arrived here to
I day on the Cymric from Liverpool.
On the voyage from Galveston to the
CJold Coast, which v-ns reached about
the middle of November, 1914. several
i of the passengers ard crcw. Including
Lewis, died from scurvy. Upon these
? deaths is based the charge of man
slaughter against "Chief Sam. accord
ing to the Lewis -woman, who added
that the promised reception In Africa
| had not been arranged, and tint the
natives were apparently hnrtile. The
j wo nan.on her arrival in London was
deported to this country.
SUBMARINES BUSY AGAIN
\\ hltc Stnr l.lnrr Cymric Henri of Till*Ir
Opern tt on * on Soutlirrrst Const
of Irelnnd.
I Special to The Times-Dispatoh.]
\"K\V YORK. January 23.?German
submarines are again active off the
southwest coast of Ireland. This re
, t.ort was brought in to-day bv the
White Star liner Cymric. She left Llv
! erpool on January 11.
The n-.ornlng after leaving Liver
pool tiie Cymric received a wireless
, from the admiralty warning her to
look out for submarines. An hour later
j three of the newest British patrol boits
hove in sight, and convoked the liner
to a point fifty miles west of Fastnet
The Cymric encountered tempestuous
j weather throughout the voyage. Tn her
strong box she brought *20.250.000
worth of American securities. There
j also was a small consignment of gold.
Among the- passengers was F. Curtis,
an American aviator who has h??en
! serving with the French army; riillip
12. Hubbard, a Canadian officer wounded
at the front, on leave of absence, and
; Julio A. Tlgero, a Peruvian diplomat.
BINGHAM'S BODY ARRIVES
Member at llrnry I-'ord'n P.av, I'n r ( ,
Died Soon After llencliliiK
Krl.itlnnn,
NKW YORK January 23.?The
steamer Kristinniafjord, having on
board the body of Lloyd Bingham, a
; member of Henry Ford's peace party
J who died shortly after his arrival at
J Kristianla, arrived to-night at Quar
j antlne.
, Several persons who were connected
i wllh the peace party arrived on the
Krlstiiniafjord. They were: Lawrence
j Darmore, Joseph D. Golden. Philip A.
Warner, Robert Gushing, s. lligglns. 4-.
j Hill and Christopher Phillips.
J Other arrivals were Dr. Frederick A.
! Cook, the exploror; Oscar J. Frances,
? secretary of the American minister at
Stockholm; Fernandino Lernndn, secre
tary of the Mexican legation at Kils
tiania: David Hergstroni. Norwegian
consul-general at Montreal, and Michel
I Godolsky. n representative of the Rus
j sian government en route to Washing
ton for a conference with the Russian
! ambassador.
BRITISH SHIP FOUNDERS
j All on rtoitrd the Pollentln Rewrited Af
ter Vesncl Is in OlntrcKM 7iKI
.Miles on Cnpe llnrr.
HALIFAX, N. ,c'., January 2.',.?The
Krltinli steamer Pollentia. which has
been reported in distress about 700
mllos oft' Cnpe Race, foundered to-night,
according to a wireless message re
ceived here to-night. All cn hoard
were rescued.
, An earlier radiogram 'said that the
i Italian steamer Giuseppe Verdi and two
j other steamers were standing by the
! PoIJentin. waiting for the seas to mod
erate sufficiently to take off her crew.
The Pollentia is understood to have
been In tho service of the British ad
miralty. Tho Giuseppe Verdi left New
(York, January J.", for Genoa.
Wilson's Campaign Expected to
Bring Out Opinion and
Stir Up Congress.
PREPAREDNESS UPPERMOST
President's Determination Re
stores It as Paramount Sub- J
ject of Discussion.
WASHINGTON. January Presi- |
rlcnt Wilson's determination to talk to
the people of the Middle West on na
tional preparedness has had the ' ' ''
of restoring that Issue as the uppermost j
! subjcct of interest and discussion in
. ongress For several weeks, although
committees have been engaged in con
Kideration of the army and na\ ? .?P
propt iatlon hills, preparedness has b-en j
'overshadowed by the Mexican situation
| and the International questions it row- j
j 111 k out of the European war Now.
I with the President about to t?u,' the
trountrv to arouse the public lo mi!i
t.w requirements of the nation, admln
| istration and opposition leaders
! iz? that lively times are ah'ad on < ap
i itol Hill.
DL'MOC It.t'l H MCADI'-H
I. It A TI l'"l 12 D V I!" PKOC.ItAM !
Democratic leaders thoroughl- in '
sympathy with the President s view on;
' preparedness are gratified over the pur
; pose of the chief executive to t ike the ,
{field, inasmuch as there has been ;,r-i
: parent in Congress for some time a '
tendency to adopt a waiting policy,
1 among many members uncertain re-j
' garding the views of their constituents j
j on the subject. The President s tour. J
l it is believed, will serve the double
purpose of brlnglnu out public opinion ;
| -uki stirrins; up members of Congress.:
< ?n the other hand, opponents of pre- ;
paredness sec in the President's trip,
an opportunity to further their cause
bv replying to his arguments in '.he
J Senate and House.
' Uneasiness over the Mexican situa
tlon. which stirred Conures.s for more
i than a week, has grently abated ar.-J j
' probably will not he revived soon un
| less new sensational developments
| should occur in Mexico. Admlnlstra
j tion leaders regard the danger of be- I
ing forced into difliculties with the Cat
! ran?.a government ns averted for tlie
' present, and even Republicans of the j
j Senate have concluded not to force the'
' issue of Intervention to a vote at tills !
time. Senator ISorah. one of the fore
most believers in the necessity of mili
tary action in Mexico by the United
States has decided now that that is
not the thing to be done at this time
When the Senate Foreign Relations
! Committee declined to act on interven
tion resolutions last week. Senator
Ftorah had contemplated :t motion to
i discharge the committee from further
' consideration of the resolutions, but a
canvass of the Republicans showed
them almost unanimously against suc'i
i a move.
j KA PK<T MK.YUAN SPKKUIIKS
TO UK MA 1)1-: NOW VVII THK.\
Democrat it leaders in both houses
1 expect Mexican speeches to be made
i now and then, but they are satisfied
: that the situation is in their control.
for the piesent :?t least. Some time
; during the week Representative
! Humphrey, cf Washington, expects to j
j make a speech assailing the adminis
tration's Mexican policy. President
i Wilson's reply to the Senate, in which ;
i a mass of details regarding Carranaa
! and Mexico will l.e included, may also j
S serve to arouse the interest of Congress :
j again. It is probable now that this re
ply will not be sent to the Senate ut til
j ?he I resident returns from his WAsi-j
i ern tour. Interest is still apparent at j
the Capitol in the European situation.
i but no aggressive action is looked tor. ,
i Embargo resolutions have been submit- ;
i ted to a subcommittee on Foreign Rela- j
I tions, and no report is anticipated for.
! some tin.6. J
With rceard to legislation in general, j
! both houses continue to travel slowly,)
notwithstanding efforts of adrainistra- j
tion leaders to speed up the legislative j
i machinery. Committees have been '
! urged to work faster, and signs or .
! progress are looked for during the j
i coming week. In the House, now that
Majority deader Kitchin bus returned
from North Carolina, leaders will at
tempt to inaugurate the speeding-up
I program, and Senate chieftains will do
' all they can. although they must de
! pend upon passage first in the House on
! appropriation bills and revenue legist -
! tlon. The revenue bills must wait until
| nn estimate of what money is needed
| Is available, so Pie Ways and Means
I foinniitier hardly will accomplish much
before the Military and Naval Com
mittee t eport several w eeks hence.
FEF.I.INt; OVKH MKA SI' It 10
is nitiii i.\ coMMirinu
The immigration bill literacy test
, will he reported this week. Feeling .
, over thiR measure in high in the com- i
! mittee, and its appearance on the lloor '
j is expected to precipitate heated argu- 1
I ment. |
| Poseo advocates will be given a hear
l ing on Tuesday before ihe Foreign Af
fairs Committee, when resolutions look
I Ing to formation of peace, commissions
J will be under consideration
I TREMONT THEATER BURNS j
.I
Hlostnn'x >io<.t Fnmoiix I'lnvluiiiNr l? !
Ilrnlmyril Willi I.ohm
or *1110.000.
ISpecial lo The Times-Dispatch.]
BOSTON. January 23.?The Tremont
Theater, Boston's most famous play
house, was destroyed by tiro tills after
noon, with a loss estimated at $100.
000. Firemen worked desperately for
several hours Iit confining the (lames
to the theater. Ruth Chatterton. in
"Daddy I.onglegs." was playing an en
gagement at. the Tremont. The origin
of the ftre is unknown.
ATI.ANTA-B1HM1NOH AM-NKW 4)111,KANH
AHI1EVIIXK-MB.MPI1IH
Threo trfttnn dully, 10:30 A. M., S:00 P. M.,
anil 11:15 P. M.. via SOUTH BUN ltAlLWAV.
Pullman Sleeping Cars, Coaches, Phone,
Mad. 2?:.
England's Coast Is Raided Twicc
on Sunday by Hostile
Aeroplanes.
ONLY ONE DEATH REPORTED
Heretofore Zeppelins Have Been
Used for Teutonic Thrusts
at London.
LONDON, Januarv ? ii-mian air- .
paid two visits to :he 1<??titisli
coast to-day. The tlrst r.ii>! occurred
at 1 o'clock tliis morning, while Uie
second mhic shortly after noon One
man vns 1cilI?*?! hi the firs' attack ami
six were inJnred The material daiti
::ge was Insignificant.
At*. official account of the first ral?1,
given out here to-day, follows:
"The War Office announces that tr.k
ii'ir advantage of the briirht 111001 linl t
a hostile aeroplane visited t he east :
const of Kent at I o'clock tl: i." morning. .
After dropping nine bombs in rapid
succession; it made off sentvnnl
"No. naval or military dnmnue was*
done, hut there was pome damage to
private property. Incendiary homlis !
caused fires. which were extinguished
hy 2 A. M.
"The following casualties occurred:'
one innn killed; two men, on*- woman
and tlireo children slightly Injured."
SKCOXI) %'ITATK MAUI1!
IV SAME I.OCAI.ITt
The War Office statement concerning j
the second attack says:
"Following the aerial attack on the
east coast of Kent early this morning. !
two hostile seaplanes made a second j
attack upon the same locality shortly j
after noon.
"After coming under n heavy fire, the
raiders disappeared, pursued hy our'
naval and military machines.
"The enemy effected no damage, and :
no casualties have been reported."
The County of Kent forms the south- ,
easternmost part of England. to the :
south of the Thames. It includes part ?
of the city of London. but the wording I
of tiie official statement indicates that ?
the aeroplane did no* reach the city, i
The point nearest London on the east- '
ern coast of Kent is some fifty miles I
from the center of the city. A point i
of interest of the account of the first ;
raid is the statement that it was made j
by an aeroplane. Heretofore Germany !
has relied principally on Zeppelins for ;
aerial attacks on England. Of late, j
however, there haR been much discus- j
slon in England of a new type of Ger- |
man aeroplane, the Fokker, which has
been said to excel the aircraft of the
entente allies. English newspapers '
stated last week that the British air
machines *sere outpowered and out- i
engined ?
Harold J. Tennanl. parliamentary !
Under-Secretary for War. replied to j
this criticism in the House of Com- !
inons, asserting that the Fokker was
well adapted to defensive operations, i
but was incapable ot' making long ?
(lights.
i.onno v \kwspa pers
AUK NOT SATISFIED
Some of the London newspapers were
not satisfied with this statement, point- ?
lng out that the British headquarters
reports showed the loss of sixteen
aeroplanes in a month. It was sag- ?
Bested that Fokker aeroplanes would
accompany Zeppelins when the next
raid over ICngland was made.
{ The raid comes after an interval of '
several months, during which England,
so far as has been reported officially,
was immune from such attacks. The ;
last previous occurrence of this nature j
was on October J3. when fifty-five per
sons were killed and 114 wounded by a
Zeppelin attack on London. It has j
been reported hy returning travelers. ,
however, that the Germans have made
many attempts since that time at |
aerial attacks, but that their aircraft
were turned back by Hritish aero- j
planes.
It A IDS IX ATI'ItK OF
SCO I TIXU EXPEDITIONS
LONDON, January 21.?The Tiniest
believes that Sunday's aeroplane raids .
were in the nature or" scouting expedi- J
tions.
"It has been noticed on previous (
occasions." sa\s the Times; "that Zep- ,
pelin raids often have been preceded ;
by aeroplane raids, presumably aiming ,
nt an investigation of the methods of'
the raids in the const area."
KING NICHOLAS IN ROME
Spend* Part of liny M ?fl? Itulimi .lion- ;
arch, and Then Proceed* on Way |
to I,.tun*. Ill* New Capitnl.
[Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.] !
HOME. January 23. -King Nicholas
of' Montenegro, accompanied hy I'lineej
I'ctor. arrived in Home 11? i ~ morning!
at 11 o'clock King Victor Emmanuel !
rnei them <>n arrival and took thorn !
In his motor car to the royal resUUncc, 1
where n gre:it crowd waited in fn>nt cf
the palace and < heered the two tnon- ,
arclis lustily. i
The meeting of (he two rulers was ;
most. affectionate. Luncheon was
served the royal palace, after which ;
King Nicholas and I'rince T'oter pro- ?
ceeded toward Lyons. the new capital,
in France, where Queen Miiena and tiie
roj a I princesses ewmt their arrival. :
FISHERMEN MISSING
Twelve \egroe* Who l.e't on Friday J
.Horning In Power Hunt So Far
Full to Upturn.
CHARLESTON, S. January 23.? i
Twelve fishermen, all said to be '
negroes, who left Mount Pleasant, S. C.,
on Friday morning In the power boat
Dart, and for whom search was made
yesterday, still were missing to-night.
A rudder and a life, preserver belong
ing to the Dart wore found by a search
ing party, members of which expressed
the belfof that the boat had hocn j
wrecked and Its occupants drowned.
i\ t u
Austrians, in Their Encircling
Movement. Occupy Antivari
and Dulcigno.
ADMIT FIGHTING IS RESUMED
If Invaders Continue Advance.
Defenders Will Attempt to
Escape to Mountains.
I Special < .'able to Times-Dlsnat -1* 1
PA IMS. January -'3. Tlio Austrians
in *h*ir encircling movement on ill"
remnant of the Montenegrin army have
occupied 111*? seaports of Antivari an?!
Dulcigno.
These are Montenegro's two chief j
seaports on" the Adriatic! Anti\.irl l^e- (
injr fourteen miles northwest of j
Scutari, anil Duleigno crow-ning the ,
rocky Peninsula cf Kudilie. twelve
miles southwest of Scutari.
The Austrian official stat> im*nt which
published this information In Vienna
to-night also states that the Mottle- ;
if^i'lns continue to lay down their j
arms "at numernun places." ami that j
"on th* northeastern front of .Monte- j
negro more than l.r.ftO Serbians have j
surrendered rltirlnc 'he last lew i1s>s. (
Meanwhile, a report from Koine
states that a fierce battle between the j
Montenegrins and Austrians has been j
in progress for three days to the south
of Scutari. Prince Mlrko Is leading the
Montenegrins, under tragic conditions. ;
says the Tribunn. His army, in iinnio- j
di.ite danger of being surrounded, is
making desperate efforts to join the
, advancing force of Serbians front the ;
FOUtll.
i'i.a \ <;i;Kitnii.i.A w aii ?
FROM Till: MOl'NTAIVS
If the Montenegrins <lo not succeed j
j In holding back the Austrians. they ,
I will uitempt to escape to the moun- .
tains, says the Tribuna. and there con- j
tinue a guerrilla war. in the hope that j
aid from the allies will at last come |
to them from the sea.
A Vienna dispatch, by way of Zurich. |
contains the first admission from Ten- I
tonic sources that the fighting has been !
resumed in Montenegro, and at the j
same time points out the hopelessness j
of the Montenegrin situation. I
"Even the withdrawal of the King's j
unconditional surrender." says the dis- i
I patch, "would not change the contll- |
I tion of affairs, because the Montenegrin
! army.Is no longer able to offer resist
: a nee. Nine-tenths of its artillery is
now in the hands of the Austro-Hun
; parian troops. The importation of am
' munition anil foodstuffs also is now
( impossible, because of the occupation
bv the Austrians of Antivari."
1 '
I
nitlllSIt l\ >1 HSOIMJTA M1A
HA>u?i:ni:n nv hai> ?wkatiikr
l,ON DON*. January 23.?The British 1
forces in Mesopotamia going to the j
relief of Kut-el-Amara are being j
hampered by bad weather, but. never- i
theless, llerce fighting, with varying
success, is being indulged in by the.
Turks. Sir Percy Lake. the new Brit
ish commander-in-chief, reports that
the casualties on both sides have, been
heavy.
The Russians are continuing their ad
vance in the Caucasus. Petrograd says j
the Turks are making a precipitate re
treat in the region of Krzeruni, and
that the Russians are capturing prison- 1
crs and ammunition and other supplies.
The roads are strewn with Turkish
dead.
The Russians also are on the offen
sive against the Teutons south of
? luhno. one of the Volyn'an trianrle
of fortresses, and on the Dniester and J
Truth. In Kast Oalicla.
At one point, along the T'ruth, Vienna '
says the Austrians blew up a trench, j
killing nearly all of the "Oft men in it. |
1TIIKS UKMOIIAI.I/.KI)
BY DBKISAT IN ( At < ASl S |
PRTROGRAD. January <via Lon
don).? The defeat of the Third Turkish
Army in the Caucasus is regarded here j
as a greater victory than that at Sari I
Kamysh a year ago, when these same j
troops wore so demoralized that they j
were only recently enabled to resume j
the offensive.
The entire Kleventh Corps and parts
of the Ninth and Tenth of the Turkish ,
army were engaged in the battle in
the neighborhood of Lake Tameruit. !
according to the military authorities!
here. Behind these were concentrated
the reserves from the garrison of the
Kanierun fortress. In ^spite of the
most skillful handling of the Turkish j
divisions, they were unable to with- ,
stand a sudden unexpected onrush of
the Russians against the center.
The campaign began toward the end
of summer. During autumn three
Turkish divisions were thrown hack
at Olti and along the seat-oast, while
in the district of Lake Van a division
under Halll Re> was defeated. The
operations towards I'rumiah ended
with the defeat of the Turks ami Her
mans, thus guaranteeing the safety of
the Russian flanks.
Ill December the Russians began an
active attack against the center, and
on January 3 broke the lines of the
ISIoventh Corps, so thai these forces
were obliged to retire m disorder.
The defeat of the Turks, ii was said,
was particularly disastrous In the re
gion of Koprukeui. where by artillery
attacks, followed by bayonet assaults,
the Russians virtually destroyed three.
Turkish divisions.
The Russian offensive continues on
the lower Strlpa and the Dniester,
where the Russians have tried to
break through the enemy positions and
menace the flank based on Ituc./.ac/., and
have captured the strategically im
portant village of Dabrova.
TIIK "CITY OP RICHMOND," s.
A new and palatial ?ieam?r. affording an
enjoyable overnight trip to BAI/PIM'MIK.
Kxrollent meals. Staterooms and private
hoths. YORK H1VBR LINK. lMione Mad.
Germans Capture
1 rench Near Arras
T\\ (I (irrmnii r:ildo on flic enst
riinsl or Kitcliind ; the rnplurr
or Molltt*lii*uro*N I wo |irliii'l|inl Heli
port* by llic A uhi rlmis. mid the tllU.
Iiii; lit (he (?erinnn.H of trenches
friuu ihe l-'rencli near \rrns :i 11 al In
llic \rnoiiiic furi'Nl lire lolil or in
lli?Ml:ilt**t nlllcitil communications or
l.omloii. \ Icnon iio<l Itcrliu.
\ ieiiitn rcporlH thai llie Mnnlr
ncurins emitInur (o 1 :>y tlonn their
nrniM, timl lliul 1.5110 Serbian* li:i\e
.snrre ntlcred in the Inst few flay*,
although <> urmiiilllfinl i-uni nut it it'll
lion Miy* fli:it n considerable por
tion or liic Mmitencu rln nrmy linn
declined lo surrender. nml thai fleri'i"
liKhtiiiK Iiiim liecu resumed in the
? noun(ni ii district*.
liravj liulillnx Iiiih licen in |iroK
ri-Ni in I'rniiec, n rrcncli advanced
imsltiiiii on the roiul lirtncrn Arm*
nml I.en* In-ill); attacked li.v strong
larrmnit forrrn. 'I'lit* Infantry nt
tjicl. i?ns preceded hy niliir r\|iln
nIoiis mill n violent hoiuhiirdment,
nml the licruinnN captured n llrnt
line ireneli on n front of Ncveral
hundred yard*.
I'reach conn tern t tuck* were Im
mediately inmic.ii rntrri, anil n por
tion of the ?'ii|itureil treneli wit* rc
t like n. Tlic liermnnN, however, nt
the eliise of (he tiny o>'^u|ilr?l illio
yiirlis of the advanced trench, whleli
formed ii Mtilient In the l-'rencli
lines.
IS ARRANGED AS RUSE
In This Wn.v King Nicholas Gains !
Week's Time to Prepare Re
treat Into Albania.
HIS SUBTKRFUGK IS ADMITTED
Has Prepared Documents .Justifying
Conduct in Course of Deceit With
Kneiny?Premier issues Statement
< oncoming Fake Negotiations.
liOMK, January ? Premier Mi- I
ouclikoviteh, of Montenegro, who ?le-j
clarcil on his arrival at Urindisi that |
King Nicholas had prepared documents j
justifying the conduct of himself and j
his ministers in regard to the peace
negotiations with Austria, is quoted in
a dispatch from Urindisi to the Stefani
News Agency as saying that Monte
negro arranged a truce with Austria
as a ruse, to enable her to gain time.
After the capture of Mount Lovcen by
the Ausirlnns, the Premier Is reported
to have said, this pave the Monte
negrins a week's time to prepare their
retreat Into Albania, in an eiTort to
effect a junction with the Serbians and
to defend .Scutari.
SOMK ADDITION A I. I.MillT N
?.ONCi:UM.\t; SITl ATIO.X
Some additional light as to the sit
uation in Montenegro. Albania and
Serbia has been obtained through \V. S.
Unkcmnn and U. .1. Strong, of the Amer
ican Sanitation Committee, and Ueorgo
L. I.orillard. who has been in Serbia
for the I'nited States to protect the
internets of Austrian prisoners of war
held liv the Serbians.
.Mr. Hakeman at*i* Mr. Stronyr arrived
at the American .embassy to-day. hav- |
\\t\K left San Giovanni di Modi] a for:
I.rindts! In one of the last vessels to
depart from that ..handeneu Albanian
t o w n.
Mr. I.orillard has been in Kome for
several days.
Views expressed by Mr. P.akcman and
.Mr. Strong are to effect thai the so
called Austrian-Montenegrin battles
have in reality not been heavy. The
Montenegrin government, they said,
was in readiness to leave the country
for Italy or Greece whenever the step
became necessary. Mr. I.orillard did
not deny the views of Mr. Hakeman
and Mr. Stronir, who declare that since
the beginning- of the war the Monte- j
nogrin government has had an under- J
standing with the Austrians, which I
made it unsafe to attempt lo receive '
succor from Italv or any of the other |
entente allied countries.
"I tvish to say." said Mr. I.orillard.
"that Italy lias done line work as far,
as she was able in helping the Serbs.
She has kept her good faith in gelling!
food and other supplies to the Serbs]
and other refugees." j
STMI'S I 'Olt \ ItM ISTItV.
m.iu:i,v to f;\iv ti.uk !
PA It IS. .lanu.'i ry 2.1. ?The llnvas cor- i
respondem al Home says the Monte- j
neurit) consul-general lliere litis re- j
eeived n dispatch from Premier Mioiieh- |
kovilch, of Montenegro, sent front i
Urindisi. in which the Premier ex plains I
the exchange of communications be-i
twei'ti the Austrian and Montenegrin j
military authorities after the fall of.
Mount i.ovcen and C'elinje. According
lo this information, (he steps taken for!
an armistice were ineic!\ to gain time, j
so as lo insure the safe retreat of the'
Montenegrins toward I'odouoritza and I
Scutari and to prevent interferencej
Willi I he Serbian troops which were on
the way to Alessio and Durazxo, Al
bania. ?
A I lavas dispatch from I.yons gives
an actonnl of a statement made on he
halt' of Queen Milena, of Monlenegro,
by lieneral I in vosdenosl kes. The gen
eral said the ship which took the
tjueen. Princesses Neule and Vera and
the .Moiiiencmin <.tibials from Scutari
to Urindisi was pursued all the way
across the Adriatic bv submarines sunt
sea planes.
HKPOHTS OI<' SI'IITKHI'T '.F.
to.\Kiimi:i> i?v (,i:m:iiai,
The general confirmed reports thai
King Nicholas hail entered upon peace
negotiations with the Austrians. lie
made the same explanation of the nego
tiations as that credl'.ed to Premier
Miouchkovitch that his course was
adopted as u suliteifiige, in order lo
gain time to orgaui/.e the army, which
lacked supplies and munitions, for fur
ther resistance. These negotiations,
the general said, gave the King time
to concentrato his army and mnke
plans for its retreat lit Case of need.
DIE WITH CURSES
UPON THEIR LIPS
FOR AMERICANS
Mexican Cattle Thieves Face
Firing Squad for Murder
of Bert Akers.
BROTHERS MEET DEATH
SHOULDER TO SHOULDER
With Bravery Undaunted, Their
Bodies Crumple Up at
First Volley.
MERCY SHOTS END SUFFERING
Remains of Confessed Slayer .Are
Exhibited to Allay All Doubts
of Execution.
Kl. PASO. TEX.. January 2.1.?
Hernarilo and Frederico Puran. the
Mexican cattle thieves, condemned to
die by the C'arranzn authorities for the
killing- of Bert Akers at San Lorenzo,
a few miles below the international
i boundary, on Friday, were executed at
daylight in the cemetery at Juarez, to
day. The body of Akers was interred
? here late to-day.
With curses upon their lips against
the American people, the two young
Mexicans?brothers?were shot to
death by a '"arran/.a firinp squad. They
went to their death standing shoulder
to shoulder against the whitewashed
adobe wall of the cemetery. They
faced the firinp squad with undaunted
lira very, refusing to bo blindfolded, and
fell together at the first volley.
Almost Ihcir last words was this
challenge, flung: at the small protip of
I American newspaper men and friends
of the murdered Akers:
"Watch and see how Mexicans die.
you Americans?." The only plea of
any sort was made by llernardo Duran.
the elder brother, a few minutes be
fore the end.
WANT XYOItl.n TO KNOW
OK THBIII SACH1FICH
Standing beside the cemetery pate,
he said, in his own tongue, to a cor
I respondent?the only American who
| talked to the prisoners:
"We are d.vinp for you Americans.
Tell the world that. 1 shot the Ameri
can because he was trying to force en
trance to my home. 1 was defending
my rights, as any man would have done.
"My brother here is entirely innocent.
He didn't tiro a shot, but they are
going to kill him, too. Tell inc. Is
that Justice? lie Is being sacrificed to
your American public opinion. We are
not afraid to die. but why should nn
, innocent man be lolled? He is only
twenty-two years old. I am twenty
! f Mir. Some day we will he avenged."
While the elder talked the younger
brother stood beside hln>, hands
pocketed and lips quivering slightly,
but saying nothing. The prisoners
were bound together by ropes.
The Juarez cemetery is a mile and
a half from the jail where the con
demned men spent their last night.
The morning air was cold but they
wore no coats when they emerged at
f>:30 A. M. from the prison and took
their place between six silent guards
and set out. afoot, for the place of
death. Meslde the firing squad rode Its
commander. Captain Alfredo Uritz.
With heads bent, the brothers strode
along, talking softly to each other.
Thtir guards. muffled in gaudy-colored
blankets, shuffled beside them. Once
or twice the elder brother's arm
went caressinply over the younger's
shoulder, and ho whispered a wor.l of
com fort.
1IDA1) TO fl'.JIHTKIIV
(SLiOOM \ KVK\ IIV IIA V
The road to the e.cmotery is a gloomy
one, even bv day. It leads over a plain
dotted with sickly mesquite and cactus.
The last half-mile before the cemetery
pate the road straightens out. and the
white crosses are visible long before
the gate is reached.
Neglect has made the burying ground
even more desolate than usual. The
crosses stand awry over many graves.
Few are erect. Standing thus, at
grotesque angles, they make weird
shadows on the weed-covered turf and
marble slabs.
Slowly tho little procession ap
proached the gate, which stands Jit the
crest of a gentle rise. Through that
pate have gone hundreds of prisoners
sentenced io death, most of them war
captives. The Americans waiting at
the entrance involuntarily shrank back
as the prisoners ami their guards ar
rived at the pate, which was swung
open by the deaf old sexton, who has
guarded it for years. It Is of iron, and
it creaked upon its hinges as it opened
"Halt." said Captain Ortiz wh<n the
s>iuail -had advanced about 'en feet
within tin cemetery. The gate was
closed, and the spectators leaned over
it Then a newspaper representative
was permitted to enter and interview
the prisoner.*. The order to advance
once more was given, and the little
group marched toward the "death
house" In the center of the graveyard,
l(?i> yards away.
The white walls of this one-room hut
shone in the moonlight. The gate was
opened to admit the witnesses. w lu>
crowded close to tbu cxecutionei s.
rillSOM'.llS TAKK ST A Ml
A?;\I\ST 1)10 ATI I HOI Si'.
It was nearly daylight now. The
moon, hanging low m the writ, struck
full upon the west wall of the death
house," against which the prisoners
look their stand All about them wore
the wooden crosses* of the dead. Twen
ty feet in front of thein stood five sob
dlers with rifles ready.
It was <i o'clock The church bell
tolled in K1 I'ii.mi and re.verbcrated over
the plains. Faintly then, but cle.it,
can.o the sound of teveille bugles in the
camps of American regiments along the
border and at Fort ):b.;s. Suddenly the
dawn broke.
Captain Ortiz advanced and plr.ced a
soiled handerchbjf over tho younger
