gWWiPiptHjl''iuui'WlPJJP ''.' w mm-
. jp5 - -a
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
icuenm
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II NO. 1JJJ
l'lULADMIiPILIA, MONDA.V, .JANUA.KV i! I, 15)18.
CortciaiiT. 1010, lit Tim I'cpuo I.EDarn CowriNT.
PRICE ONE CENT
f
I
"WHOLE SOUL OF BRITAIN IN
WAR," LLOYD-GEORGE SAYS;
"SUPERB," DESCRIBES ARMY
! nwinnnv r-p Qn VWrkWl
PJr' VjUIuuccx ui uupiciucriccu xuu.u.oljl iciu
'Sbs TiVi ml a n "l lTirvnf it
.UiligAemu. i.TxiSaju x unci j-wj. vi'.uij.
A Germany of Warriors Men
aces World if Teutons Win
LLOYD-GEORGE'S VIEWS ON THE WAR .
Allies will win. They arc, firmly united.
England now lins one of the greatest armies in the world and in a
cry short time it will ho the best-equipped army in the world.
It is a compeer of England's fleet, the greatest that rides the waves.
If Germany wins it will look for fresh spheres to conquer.
National salvation requires elimination of Teutons as a world Power.
British fleet saved England from being overrun as the Balkans were
swept
Industrial Britain is the mighty power that reinforces the two arms
of the service.
By IVEK NICHOLSON
(t'opyttuht, t'Jtit, hy tic tntcruntlonat .Vn 8eifc.)
LONDON, Jan. 24.
Few people will quarrel with the statement that the outstanding figure
of the war in Great Britain is David Lloyd-George, Minister of Munitions.
For a month past it has been the aim and ambition of every newspaper man
ft &?& afcp
ill " wf?'-;
i.LOYiMiUORGK. the first placo, wo have introduced
tcores of millions' worth of automatic machinery which will have an enormous
effect upon our industries when the wnr is over.
"In addition to that we are adding to our already great industrial army
of skilled workers and shall need them in the future to replace the ravages
of war in this country.
"Therefore, so far from being the exhausted Britisher in everything
that constitutes real and truo wealth, we shall be a better organized, better
equipped, better trained and, what is more important, perhaps, a better
disciplined nation. In fact, we shall indeed be national and not a congeries
of .conflicting interests."
"As you know," he said when I mentioned this point, "I have always
opposed settlement of international disputes by organized force. I fought
this doctrine for three years when I thought my country applied it in South
AfnVn on.l ...no ir. fnvr.,- nf TtrUnin entering this War because I Saw in it
the only means of destroying this hideous German menace to peace and
civilization.
"Everything that has happened in 18 months of the war tends to con
firm me in what Premier Asquith has called 'the great decision.' You will
renumber that Mazzini said war is the greatest of crimes when it is not
waged 'for the sake of a great truth to enthrone or a great lie to entomb.
"Yes, the Allies are engaged in a mighty effort to dig the grave of that
kicked lie that 'might is right and, mark you, we shall not cease to strive
to our uttermost until we have dug the grave deep and wide and can abandon
our united toil in the firm conviction that we are insured beyond all possible
doubt against its resurrection."
JJoyd - George la not one of those
PerferWd, perspiring' patiiots who tmag
lna they are doing- their country a ser
vice by decrying everything German.
Talking on this phase, ho s.i!J:
THE WEATHER
Althoueh It did not look like rain, we
t Imitated between a walking stick and an
umbrella as to which to tnke as our com-
1 pardons on our matutinal constitutional
.(morning walk) downtown. There must
utve been soma subconscious hralnwork
operating upon us-and la very possible
that nil our bralnworl: Is subconscious,
. Ir that matter, as It would boather bad
ferulta think- ilellhanitelv about anything.
lAt any rate, we decided on tho cluiruy
aDrena Instead of llu dapper warning
lick. WhvT II worried us: for. while
C ItUs perfectly proper to do an unreason
s' fw Uilng (as any woman will tea youi.
$ H Is, neverthelebs, wlso to have a good
rason ror doing an unrcasonaoie jnuis.
w -we looked through our Intellect cham
btrs for the reason for that umbrella and
'nought pf all tho things we'd been read
ing In newspapers, etc., that might have
led us t0 the decision. tVnsn'i there some
catchword that had oecn engraved on
cur toflml and that would explain the
Uklng out of an umbrella on a clear dayl
An, yes ve got It, nt las,t!
Preparedness, of course.
FORECAST
J.V. m..i. j.i..r..-.. ....,; -.;,.,, iV,.
R f axr walher und alowhi rising tcm-
K? HAYtllltfn t .'..L( .....I TiiaaJflll Utll k
r''-'ip luntyfil um -i ut5 -.-.-
moderate southerly winds.
i uetuita see pu.'c ii.
LOST AND .POUND
fOt'KETBOOK Lout. broa pockttbooliv wo-
Ulnmir 4 -i ii .. I.....II,, .tan in tu
tM MJ oU U iUiucey aM Mttt anj
ilnut reward. 4u4 Walnut jjt;
" -U, Airtai ai. beivy t R"
V U je urtwd. Ttleubund JOHN AN
ot SKX jse.igwi,.k m.. ovi Clearvlew t .
'J'jrmiuuowu.
KQ BLACK XHOW DOaLCWT ery
ock. b.Ut. iiaaJ bou 13 CunV.ibl.jn,
i&o'a " J-Val r4. rstura t 1W
- T71"-f Ti- rln c?4Vl a I
TAtit - ai -Prvi. Tiii-rM'tr
on this side, cither permanent or visit
ing, to get Lloyd-George to talk for
publication. Up till today he had
steadfastly refused, but at my earnest
solicitation and mainly, of course, be
cause he wanted to, Mr. Lloyd-Gcorgo
consented to answer some questions
dealing with the situation today after
IS months of war.
The first question was whether Eng
land is really putting its whole weight
into the war. Minister Lloyd-George
replied:
"England is preparing to put its
whole weight into' the war, and Ger
many will feel it in a very short time.
It is an effort such as England has
never made a truly prodigious ef
fort. "In the days before the war she
had the greatest fleet in the world, but
now she hus one of the greatest
nrmics, nnd in n very short time it
will be about the best-equipped army
In the world.
"But that is not all! A rtew Britain
is now being developed a new indus
trial Britain. Under the pressure of
war we arc improving and quickening
our industrial resources to nn extent
which would have been impossible but
for the demands of this conflict."
"Let me give you an example," re
marked the Munitions Minister. "In
"I think America and ull of us should
realUe there were two Gormanys be-
t'untimml un Pae Pour. Column One
AUSTRIACI E BULGARI
SU DURAZZO E VALONA
I Porti Albanesi Sono gli Obiet-
tivi delle Forze Operant! da
Cettigne ed Elbassan
Ncssun comunicato umclale e state
trasmeeso oggl da Roma. Quello dl led
amtunciava che truppe llaliane operantl
sul Carso avevano aorpreso una pojizlone
austriaca e vl avevano catturato un buon
numero dl cannonl. ma roancayono par
Ucolarl. Qlungo notUla Invece da Vienna
che git austrlacl hanno occupato I due
no?tl montenegrinl dl Antlvarl e Dulclgno
S rhe ora marclano su Durazzo, mentre le
foree bulgare rnarcerebbero su Valona.
i?.dla al a liro' dogll Intendlmentl desl
aUeitl clrcalkdlfesa dell'Albanla. E1
certo che Valona sara' dVesa, ma . non
mbra "he al possa lasclare aenza difeao
anche uuraiu. i
Intanto, con f'pccupazlone del due port I (
montenegrinl l dice he le truppe dl re
monitii wi . neilcolo dl esaere ac, I
"wr7.m- nerclo- mar- !
cUua ' sublto da Seutarl verso la cota per
! dl Imbarcursl pilnui dl esse ve
ders? taglla U la via dl rltlrata. E' da no
fare po' che Antlvarl e pulclgnu aono
-?nfi occuoatl solo da plctol repartl aus
?ricl che Sevono csere diseel da Cettlnge
o evltare dl essera attaccatl dal mare
jSlla via dl Budua.
i ..re In a paglna le ultiroe o pW
deugflatetUIe aulla guerra. in Hal,
lano.J - .-
Camden Negro Killed by Elevator
Samuel Dorwy. a negro, IIW South Sth
street, Camden; w crushed today b-
s" T. .levator and coke bo at tbe
tweeu an elevator an
SE tftwta W -dnUttea to tbCoor
HMJlta-
"DOC" COOK MNCOVKItS IM) '
3I.X OlMlOUXKo ISN'T WIliU
North Pole Specialist Had Hard Time,
but Succeeded j
NlilV Vnm.- t .. . .
- -- .--...., ,iu,,. . ,. ur, iTciinick
A. I ooU. Hlio snhl he ilhrocinI tlic Noi tli
Pole anil climbed .Mt. JlcKlnlov. i-ilvcd
help imlm un Cic N'ui ned.in.Amcilvitii
Unci- (In lrtlnii:afjor.l n..m iMnini. M.i
nll.1. Mnillio'tok anil I'lir'sll.tnln
Dor-tor Coo't wntiinl t. illiuli Ml. ;.er
eM. In Hip llliuitiijpH, , it the Pi lllsh
Cinoriiniciil irfi.,t(., ,. urnnlrnlo!.. Then
lie "ought in iMiluii. Iloi-iao. 1ml again
the l.ngtish Ciucimiicnt banett Ills ui..
o.iIuIiiIiir mi opcti I1u.1t. Doctor Cmlt MS',
out in implore tlio South year, tllUclliur
"000 milt.
"One of the nintf iiitm!!,,, iiiiu,.
erics t innilo wns that the wild mail lit
Ihllllltl M fl.lt ,vll.l ' unlil ll,...!.. 1 .in1.
"Me hni glw-n up ll'io habit nf ItlllliiR Ills
follow ci calmer, nnd hl cnlv t.ltl teams
to lir poljgnmv."
SVen inctnhri o' the Km it tinrtj Weie
on the !.ili.
SECRET CODES i
OF U. S. KNOWN
BY ALL NATIONS!
Col. House Learns That;
Warring- Powers Decipher i
A I 1 . 1 t-v J l I
iniuassaciors uispaicnes
WASHINGTON TO CHANGE
IM.m.lN. .Inn 21
'I lie nuppiMCilly gccii'l illpUminilc coilc.n
of thu t'tilteil States Gotcrnmnil an
known to practically rvcrv IicIIIkcipiiI n
Ktirope, It .! '.oariii-il tnd.iv i"ol. K. M.
House, who is conferring n'llh Ainc.liiin
Ambnusndora In Kuiopc ui thv conflilcn
tlnl iiKont of President Wilson, will luio
tills fact Impressed upon him before ho
rUuns to WnHliliiRton. TliroiiRh him tin
Hlutc Department will lie nuked to chance
Its cipher.
It Is now Impossible for nny illplomatlc
nRcnt of the I'nltcil Ktnte.i In Knropc to
cable n incssaKe to WnshliiRton with tho
certainty that It will he transmitted with
out Its contents IicIiik known In Europe.
In home Instances, olllclals of morn than
one bolllKcreut country can know tho con
tents of such a measaRu before It reaches
Washington
American diplomats in Uurope lcallzo
ofllelals of (he helllBercnt nations have
not the time to exnmlnc all the illspatches
they send to WnslilnBton. Hut when
these officials know that Important dls
pntches ore about to ho tiarismlttcd, as
is often thfe case, they can ho on tho
alert.
Not only Is it possible for Kuropcan
bollluercntB 1 obtain such Information,
but U Is JtrioWn that they have don so
In numeiouH Init'ailct.i. A dispatch ic
cently cnhled to WnshlnBton by Ambas
sador I'cnflfM at Vienna is an Illustra
tion. rVnflcld used the usual route,
cablhifr via Heme nnd Paris. Ho first
telegraphed to Uciiic that such a dis
patch was coining; then hn telegraphed
It in code. Kour days later the American
Minister In Switzerland wired Penlleld
that his dispatch had not orrltcd. Tcn
lleld forwarded another version, which
arrived before the original mossiiKO. The
orlRhml was mysteriously delayed.
Tlioio are now three diplomatic codes
In use by American Ambassadors, said to
bo from flvo to seven years old. Euro
pean Governments chaiiKO their codes
at least three times eery two years to
keep them from falling Into the hands
of spies.
INCOME TAX LAW
GETS SUPREME COURT'S
SEAL OF APPROVAL
Sweeping Decision Handed
Down by Chief Justice Sus
tains Government's Inter
pretation of the Act
VALID USE OF POWER
WASHINGTON. Jan 24. 111 a sweeping
decision today tho Supreme Court set
(Is seal of approval upon the Income tax
law, passed In 1913, as now administered
by the Government. The opinion was de
Ihered by Chief Justice White In n test
case brought by William II. Hrnsliaber.
a stockholder of the Union Paclllc Rail
way. The Court ruled In effect that every
step taken by Congress In carrjlng out
the letter nnd the spirit of the ICth
amendment to the constitution, the Income
tnx amendments, wns correct. The con
stitutionality of the Income tax law Itself
waa not questioned In the Itrushaber
case, but nearly every detail of the law
was challenged as Invalid.
VALID RXKRCISB OF POWER.
These separata features of the law
which were criticised' In the lest case
were upheld aa a valid exercise of power:
First. Collection of the ta from March
t to December 31, WI3. a period before tho
law actually went Into effect.
Second. Collection at the source
Third, The principle of progressive tax
ation, making larger Incomes subject to
higher rates than smaller incomes.
Fourth. The proposition that Individ
uals may deduct from their tnxable In
comes corporation dividends already
(axed, but corporations may not do this.
Fifth. Variation In the amount of nor
mal exemption, according to tho aizo of
tho Income.
Sixth. HJght ot dlscilmlnatlon between
married and single persons.
Seventh. Permitting farmers to omit
from their returns farm i-roducts used
in their sustenance, although denlng
other persons the right of deducting their
family expenses.
The opinion of the Cour. waa unani
mous, ,
THE COURTS OPINION.
The great powers of legislative bodies
to levy taxea waa pointed out by Chief
White, In the decision, when he said:
"It la ot course superfluous to say that
arguments as to the expediency of levying
such taxea or the economic jnlstake or
wrong Involved In their impositions are
boond judicial cognizance"
Referring to the constitutional objec
tions brought against the tax In this case.
Chief juatUe White, ald.
-bo; far aa these numerous and minute,
not to say In many respecta hypothetical
contentions, are based upon an assumed
lolatlon of tho uniformity clause, tbelr
want of Usal merit la at once apparent,
CatbM4 rco i'sux, Ctuam bix
POWDER MOUSE
AT COAL PLANT
RUINED BY BOM
Heavy Exulosion Wrecks'
Stores Said to Be Sup-
Ilyi the Allies
HALTS RAILWAY TRAFFIC!
j Ai-gyle Compuny, Near Johns
town, Sufi'cr& Loss No
Oiid Injured
JOHNSTOWN. In.. Jan. H.-Tho pow
der home ot the 'Wle Cont Company
nt South 1'orli juu, unst of here, wns
blown up sliortij urtcr S,3i o'c'ocl. tills
inoimm;.
dt I' helloei3. that the xplo.iotl ttns
ilue li a ilmn liOnl'j .No one wns intuicd j
n mote was tin our. tira: tne putiu at
.ho time. The force of the r-xploslon
broke ne.iilv 3)1 the trlmhiws In South
Koik.
The buildings and xmvS.ntv In llie vl
rlnlty or tho mine Immediately rnushl
llr. Tin tomp.Uu I" kt'IiI to havo been
"HJl'nlngr cnal to the Allies'.
'Iho South Korl. Kite liopniJinciit has
none to tln rri" Tfto explosions oi
inni'il. snparaled liy r fen fe"oiid. ac
lo'.illm; Hi peuple In South t'orl;. anil this
clrcuins'.nni'c l taken at i roof that the
disaster mis due to u botnli.
Ttaln No. .W, an cpioss on the ni.tln
Ilue of the I'cniuylwinM, eastbnuud. had
Just passed I he mine when the explosion
oceuired. Itundieds of tons of earth,
tioes and looks ncie tin own on tTiu
Hocks, ivlileh nic at 111 blocked.
ratseiutern In an Inipruih.in car on the
Southern Cambria l:allwa, iOO ards
illstiint. eie thmwi fiom their seats by
the foioo of tho e.spIolfm. The enr was
ihinniiicil. 1ml no oi. i was seriously In
jured The shock or the , :tploslon was
felt lieie. nine miles Horn the mine.
MINKRS PKOUAHIiY FATAI,liY
IIUKNED IX l'OWDEU BLAST
Current on Cars Sets OfT Explosive on
Wny Into Mine
rVYCTTE C1TV, Ia., Jan. Il.-Charles
Dolan and Joseph Greenloy wcro prob
ably fatally burned and 19 other work
men nere seriously injured while riding
Into the Apollo mlno, near here, this
mornlnft, when the miners' Individual
boxes of powder, which were on u. sepa
rate car, exploded.
Dolan was motorman of the "dllly"
cars. Greenley was rldlnir with him. Tho
other men Injured are Patrick Heinz.
Br.. Patrick Heinz. Jr., Georse Heinz,
George Drcnnon, Peter Hovachok. An
drf?vAular, Jr., J,nhn Nayoanori.l''raiili
Brewer, Kussell McCieady, GcorBo Cole
man, John Zopolosky, Jllke I.aplnsky,
Elmer Hill. Charles lilll, Charles Capl
tan, John Ilrasoc... J-'- Polochik and
Thomas Todd.
All the men were burned. Most of them
were hurried to their homes. Dolan and
Greenloy wcro taken to the Mercy Hos
pital, rittaburKh.
The accident occurred on the first trip
Into tho mine. Tho cars were loaded with
men and had proceeded alonK the "dllly"
lino Into tho mine tracks, where the cars
were operated by motor power. Dolan
discovered the cars were too heavy and
wero slipping. He threw wet sand on
the track and grounded the motor cur
rent, which passed through the cars, ex
ploding tho powdor. Tho mlno Is owned
by the Pittsburgh Coal Company.
"I AM GUILTY," SAYS
MAN IN CAMDEN WHO
KILLED CHORUS GIRL
Prisoner Is Calmness Itself at
Hearing Following Ten Hours
of Undisturbed Slumber
in Cell
COP TELLS OF SHOOTING
"?; ?'
! MRS. ELIZABETH DUNBAR
, yHson Asbridge. SI jears old. showed
I no signs of disturbance when he was ar
i ralgned before Itecoider Htackhouse In
Camden totay on the accusation ot pav
ing shot and killed Mrs. Klhwbcth Dun
bar, a choiua girl, (if Camden last Satur
day. Reinforced by ten hours of slumber in
the Camden Jail, which was bo profound
that attendants had to enter hU cell to
awaken htm. lie was caluinesu Itself when
he faced Ilccoided Stai-khouse When he
was brought Into the courtroom bo had
tbo stub ot a cigar tucked Into one side
of his mouth, but he removed It when
bo Has led to the stand.
AibrkUe did not display a trace or
emotion when Recorder b tack house asked
ldm if he was guilty of the murder of
lira Dunbar. H replied calmly. -1 aui
guilty '
Patrolman Howard Smith, who arrested
CeoUuutd oa ! l'w, Culuiuu 8ei
' jnsR
ENGLAND RAIDED
BY AEROPLANES,
DOVER SHELLED
Berlin Reports Airship
Bombarded Great British
Naval Base and Barracks
MAN KILLED, MANY HURT
London Says Uniders Attacked
Kent Towns, but Were
Driven Oft
UKllMN. Jan. SI.
Urlttsh barracks ami rocks nt Unvci
Hnxlamt, weie boitih.it ded by a Gel man
nnnl cteropliuip SatuuUy nlKltt. the Ad
miralty nnuouiired tinl.tj. Tho following
official statement was Issued:
"A German nauil aeroplane ilurhr: the
nlslit nf Jtmt'iiry 22-S1 iliopped bombs on I
the sinlinn. kitrackfi mid docks nt I
Dovci."
Nu tlotoll't of thr'ni'il.il bombnidment
of the great Hi itlsh pon. which N op-
posllc Calnl, h.ive been made public. It I
U supiiosed. however, that the neioplniie
dossed the Kugllah f'lionncl from n base i
on the rtelrilan cenrt. ,
Dover Is a city of about IS.Urfl. C' miles
e.ist-southrMsi of London and In the
countj of Kent The German Admiralty i
utatetnoiii iipp.iicnlly casta iluuht upon
Hi" lrpolt lliut I.nndou may have been
attacked hv the laiilllig nrioplaticM on j
the visit e.ulv Sunday moinlug. It Is ,
poislhlc. however, that the second raid
which occuimd Sunday noon, was made
over London.
LONDON, Jan SI. Attempts weir made
by Gcunnii nvlatois who look part In
two air laid oxer Ilia caM coast of Kent
on Sunday to diop bombs upon Hrltlsh
warships In the Tlinmes river, but, these
cfToits weie unsucceisful, It wns learned
today.
Tho German aeroplanes used in the at
tacks were of tho Kokkcr type, bearing
appliances for tho aiming of bombs.
Tho vlgllanco of the Ilrltlsh nlr patrols
along tho east coast was Increased by the
visit of the hostilo aeroplanci, for It wns
feared that these lalds might he the pre
lude to another attack by Zeppelins.
Tho killing of one man ami the wound
ing nf six person, one a woman and ttuee
children, by German bombs, has aroused
another storm of bitter ciltlclsm upon the
German methods of warfare In the Kng
1M press.
punorcT Moiti: raids
A rcnuwal of German aerial attacks on
Iondon probably by hqiiadrons of German
Kokkcrs, tho "Uhlans ot tho air." was
predicted by the London press today.
Aeronautic experts declared that acio
piano attacks probably would supplant
Zeppelin visits until the weather Is more
favorable for voyages by the sky dread
naughts. They called upon the Govern
ment to make preparations to defend
London against the giant Kokkcr battle
planes.
The Tlmei assailed the, censor for fot
hldding publication of the exact localities
attacked yesterday. Tho Times declared
that botli raids were witnessed by "Inrge
numbers of people" nnd Hint tho German
aviators certainly knew exactly where
they were. Questioning the mllltaty ad
vantage of suppressing such information,
the Times declared:
"There wero two raids iesterda, one
delivered In bright moonlight and the
other at high noon. The weie witnessed
Continued on Tngr Tim. Column The
PROPOSED RUM SHOP
FOR CHURCH DISTRICT
WELCOME AS MEASLES
Effort to Establish Saloon at
52d Street and Larchwood
Avenue Stirs Up Bitterest
of Opposition
WOMEN TO AID FIGHT
Why Church Kolk Balk
at Saloon Transfer
Hundreds of impressionnble
younfr children from Huey Public
School, 52d street und Osap;o ave
nue, will have to pass by the saloon
daily.
It is within a square of the Oak
Park Presbyterian Church and
half that distance from the Evan
gelical Lutheran Church.
It will be objectionable to those
who seek rest and recreation in
Black Oak Park, fuciiif: the pro
nosed saloon.
It is not "vanted by the com-
munity, which is now free from
liquor-sellinK places. ,
It will brinp to the neighborhood ,
undesirable characters, of which
class there aro already too many I
along 621 street, "the shopping; ,
centre of West Philadelphia."
A saloon at Sid street and Larchwood
aeuuo is Just ns welcoina hi that com
munity as a wart on the nose of Dr. W.
H Kuthorford, pastor ot the KougeIlcal
Lutheran Church, at S2d street and Haiol
avenue. The cleigyiuau, foe of liquor and
enthusiastic temperance advocate, saju 40
himself, and adds that he cares but little
for warts.
Apparently, the majority of (he people
In the neighborhood, including the near
est saloonkeeper, agree with him. All
unite In fencing they will flgm me peti
tion ot I' J. Malone for a transfer from
Id und Arch streets to the northwest cor
ner o5:d street and loirehwood avenue.
Although It was admittedly news to the
church folk that there had been a request
to the Ucense Court, asking for such per
mU:lon to put a saloon m the heart of the
clean, hlgh-clabs 1 evidential section, now
free from the saloon Influence for several
squares on elthor side, they said they
would lose no time In bkukballlug John
Barleycorn from admittance to their vi
cinity. As a matter of fact, they are already
united, tae light being waged by their
fellow temperance advocates a few
squares up 52d street. 011 the transfer
asked b John K Graham from Uioad
sn4 Filbert streets to XA and Ranstead
srets. baa passed on to them, and given.
Ceatlautd oa l'ac tlbta, Colusa Ua
VXPLOSIOTTWRECKS BLOW WORKS
LVD SCHOOL; MiWGLED GJKL FOUND
WVFALO. ST. V.. Jan 24. A violent- explosion wrecked tkt
Keker Slow Works this afternoon It 1 thought several v.-otii.iun
were killed The force ot the explosion blew in the sitlo wr.ll dt Public
School No. 20, which wtis filled With children. At JJilfi o'clock l v
HftcrnMA one body had hewi i-emoved ft-om the ruins. The body of a
sJrl.MUcettiKtotfg vas mken ouv shortly ftffwvrd with both hey leq
bioken. She trns i-ushed to a hospital.
SLOOP LOST WITH CREW OI-" 11
Vk'AS'irliraTO, Jon 24 -TUe sloop Dart, with htv tiur of II
uittij has been lost uear Sutlivaua Ilaud ' 6i-t' Chirlett;u bJi'.
atcovjius: to a TueiSJS i.ci-. e3 av tfnitc-j Sta'.cs C'sasst Uuutd H- ad-
MKS. PANKHURST COMING TO PHILADELPHIA
Mrs. t:mmcline l'uiikliuist. former inllltnnt English suffrage leader, plan
to Bpcnk in I'hltatlelphlu this week In the Intqrcst of the Scrblnns. Mr. I'nnk
liui'st is how In New Vork, nftcr lmvliiK been" detained at Ellis Island on licr
nrilwil fu)m CnRliintl u week ago Saturday.
.1. G. IIITNER HIGH BIDDER FOR SHIP
loseph C. llltncr, incshlent of Henry A. Httncr & Sons Comnpny, HUnt
Incton street und Ariunlngo uremic. ns high bidder today for tho uld 'receiving
ship Fnuiklln, wlilch sank oh Not folk Navy Yurd some time ugo. Hltner bid
$10,7S7 for tilt? Kruuklin, Hunted, and $13,287 submerged. Henry A. Hltiicr &
Sons Company arc scrap lion contractors, and the yard of tho llrm hua (served
as the Kiuveitrd for hcures of old ships which were formerly engaged In the
coastwise hcrvlcc.
BLANKENBURG APPOINTEES LOSE THEIR JOBS
Two men appointed e.anilnorn to the Civil Service Ho.trd during the IJlnnkcn
liurg ndmiiiiitrntlnn were illsmlssed today on the ground that their serviees.wcre
not newmiarj to the upcrntion of the commloalon. They uro Dr. W. K. Mullcr,
C00I Gieeuc .street, ittslstnnt medical examiner, at n salnry of $1G00 per ypar, and
C. Clinton Foltz, Summit street, Chestnut Hill, milury J900 per year. Other dls
niissals in tlu clerical forco of tho commission nro expected, ns It la planned to
educe the working; force to n minimum.
IRWIN A. PUE RESIGNS AUDIT POSITION
After 52 cnrs in tho city's Hervicc, Irvln A. I'tic, chief auditor In the office
of Controller Walton, today rcblgncd his position nnd his resignation was
accepted, lie was appointed in February. 1 3S t. by Robert K. 1'uttlson. prior to
tho election nf the latter ns Governor of Pennsylvania, und waa continued In
that rapacity by Controllois Henry M. Dechcrt, Thomas M. Thompson nnd John
M. Wnlton.
BERLIN SENDS FINAL REPLY ON LUSITANIA
WASHINGTON, Jan. 24. Count von UornHtorff. the German Ambassador,
today received from Berlin thn llnuP instructions of the German Foreign Olllce
In tho l.usltnnla cas.e. He ptobably will present them to tho State. Department
late today or tomorrow. It Js believed that GcimupyB last word deuls -wltli- tho
nucAtions of disavowal. Kmliassy olllcinls were Optimistic today, und It wau
broadly Intimated that the I.tisllnuin case Is near a final und complete settlement.
ALLEGED TRAIN BANDIT ARRESTED
WASHINGTON, Jan. 24. I'oatolllce Inspectors today arrcatcd nt 8m Antonio,
Tex., John HuirlMiu, accused of participating In the holdup of u liultltnoro and
Ohio tiain near Central Station. AV. Vn list October, when thousands of dollars
in unsigned banknotes wcro stolen. The Information came In u telegram from
San Antonio to Chief I'ostolllce Inspector Koons. Other arrests, It was said, will
follow shortly. Inspectors claimed they found two of the unsigned banknotes
on Harrison, along with other evidence.
ALLAN LINER DISABLED IN LUSITANIA DANGER ZONE
qunHNSTOWN. Jan. 21. The Allan liner Pomeranian, bound for Canada,
has been disabled southwest of Fnstnet and Is turning back toward Quccnstown,
proceeding blnuly. The cnuso of the accident has not been icported. The Pom
eranian Is owned by tho Allan I.lno Steamship Company, of Glasgow, and files
the UrltlMi Hag. She is un iron hcrow steamer of 4241 tons nnd wns built at Hull,
In 18S2. German submarines Infested the waters off Fastnet earlier in the war,
nnd recently uro reported to liavo resumed their activity in this neighborhood,
which is west of tho locality where tho Loisitnnin nnd Arabia wero torpedoed.
MAYOR CONFINED TO HOME WITH COLD
Major Smith, who for several days past has been suffering with a heavy
cold, canceled all His engagements tit City Hall tollay nnd remained Indoors at
Ills Hroad street home. Tho Jlnyor expects to be at his olllco tomorrow morn
ing, in time to 1111 niiKngcmeiits made with a number of his dlicctors nnd with
political leaders.
NO PEACE TILL MONTENEGRINS LAY DOWN 4RMS
HIJItLIN, Jan. 24. The Berliner Tugcblutt. In discussing tho relations be
tween Austria ami Montenegro, says that actual peace negotiations will not be
opened until all of tho Montcnegiins have laid down their arms.
MEXICO GENERAL SENT TO HAVANA BY U. S. OFFICIALS
NEW OIUjKANS, Jan. 24. Deported ut, his own request and guarded by
United States authorities, General Maximo Costlllo. accused of complicity tu
the burning of 21 Americans In a passenger train trapped in tha Cumbro tunnel,
in Chihuahua, was today bafely on his way to Havana. He left here on thu
steamship Kxcelslor. General Costlllo was brought hero from EI Paiso by Immi
gration olllclals. Ife feared nssassination by Carranza or Villa followers.
BRINDISI TORPEDOED, DOCTOR VITTA SAYS
.HOME.. Jan. 24. The, Italian. liner Hrindisl, which was destroyed off the
Albanian coast with the loss of 4)0 Montenegrin and all tho Americans on
hoard, was torpedoed, nnd not sunk by a mine, according to. Dr. Emlle Vltta,
president nf tho French Association for tho Rescue of Serbian Children, w.ho
was on boaid tho Italian ship Uari City. The tirindlsi was sent to the bottom
Just outside of the harbor of San Giovanni dl Medua on January 6, said Doctor
Vltta "1 saw her dcstroed. All the Americans on board lost their lives, a?
well ua 410 Montenegrins. T)ie Urindisi curried $200,000 in gold and much food
nnd ammunition for the Montenegrin army."
GREECE PROMISES TO GUARD ALLIES' PRISONERS
ATHENS, Jan. 24. Athens papers announco that the Greek Government
lias 'definitely accepted the proposition to take charge of all prisoners taken
by the Entente Allies in the Ilalkan campaign,
BRITISH FREIGHTER FOUNDERS OFF CAPE RACE
IIAMFAX. Jf. S., Jan. 21. The British freight steamer Pollentla. which
lias been reported in distress about 70S miles oft Cape Race, foundered lust
night, according to a wireless message received here. All on board wer
rescued. 4 .
: T
BOSTON AND ALBANY LIFTS EMBARGO
BOSTON, Jan. 21. The Boston and Albany Railroad has virtually lifted
its embargo of January 5 and will nowvtako all freight except to points on tli
New Haven road, .and, all export freight' -except livestock for the Boston and
lluiiiQ docks at Boston.
LINER CYMRIC GUARDED FROM PROWLING U-BOATS
NK.W YORK,; Jan. 24. Submarines are actUe again along tbu KnsjUsu
ctast, accotdlng-to officers of the Cymric, which arrived Irom. Wverpopt wi
torday The, ship was -warned by the British Admiralty t,o. look out ?or it-
ur-dersea, craft. Three patrol heats o&corted her to the open ocean. Xti
Cymric cQuatered a hurrkano on January 15, vhlcl battered b$r far
hours. f
t
