/ -
' -v - . . - - - t
n -
| WEATHER. v ^ *JlU' "From Pre** to Home !
# Fair tonight, tomorrow, with rising J| ^a a f ^a^ ^a _a a. a a 1 J >7 , ???????????
gentle to moderate winds, becoming 1 > 1 91/ (7 g ' Wf rfg' %^9% | |//Jm| Within the Hour" 1 i|
H H II I II 1/^ II I I I _1 , Temperature
for the H j B V B S < >
four hours?Highest, 49, at - p.m. to- f H H_ H H H H H 1 | H . H ' ? ;
I J^y J^L>
! - j J I ^ I ^ ^ r r V ^ ^ (mora 3let Circalatloa. Moath of Deecaker.
CLOSING .>E\V IORK STOCKS PAGE 15. ^^ i ^ * I,1S- u,ll? *????*. T4.Mli Slltar. M,?l
~~Xo. 'JO/JOT. WASHINGTON, d. C., MONDAY, JANUARY 24. 1916-EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENtT~
MONTENEGRIN KING
ARRIVES AT ROME;
TRUCE AS A BLIND
... 1
Premier Says Peace Negotia- j
tions Were to Enable
Army to Escape.
TFiimwc um n m vifw
CONUUEST IS COMPLETE |
Austrian* Occupy Seaports on the j
Adriatic. Cutting Off Source
of Supplies.
CONFLICTS NOT SANGUINARY
Americans Say Battles Were Trivial.
Montenegrins Refusing to
Accept Supplies Sent
by the Allies.
ROME. January 24.?King
Nicholas of Montenegro, accornpanied
by his son. Prince Peter,
and by three officers of his suite.
arrived in Komc yesterday iroin
Brindisi, in the royal train which
had been put at his disposal to
emphasize the purpose of the
Italian government in wishing to
do him honor.
King Nicholas, who was dressed
in the national costume with
black cap, white jacket and red
sash, looked very worn as a result
yf his hurried trip on horseback
from Podgoritz to the sea
and the subsequent passage and
the trip irom Brindisi.
Met by Italian King.
Kins Victor Emmanuel met the King:
of Montenegro at the Ternini terminal
station, where an immense crowd had
gathered to applaud him. They proceeded
in an automobile to the villa
Savoia, where Queen Helena, daughter
of King Nicholas, awaited him with her ^
four children. The exiled monarch left ]
Home at 9 o'clock last night to join i
his w ife and ewo daughters in I.yon. 1
Premier Miouchkovitch of Montene- j
gro. who declared on his arrival at ,
Hnndist that King Nicholas had pre- |1
pared documents justifying the conduct |
of himself and his ministers in regard
to the peace negotiations with Austria, j
to quoted in a dispatch from Brindisi to
the Stefani News Agency as saying that
Montenegro arranged a truce with Austria
as a ruse 10 enable her to gain \
timeSuch
a step was necessary after the (
capture of Mount Lovcen by the Aus- !]
trians, the premier is reported to have <
said, and it gave the Montenegrins a <
week's time to prepare the retreat into j
Albania, in the effort to effect a junc- !
tion with the Serbians and defend Scutari.
i
Fugitives Flock Into Italy.
. an; uiui c iciu^ccn i r viii .?iuineneftro ]
a ad Albania, including: sixty Serbian!'
deputies, have reached Ban, Brindisi j
and Rome. one of these arrivals is j
Krr.iie Vitta, head of the French Orphans'
Association, who went to Albania
to rescue Serbian children. M.
Vitta sailed from Bari on a vessel that
v as only 200 yards from the steamship
Brindisi when she was blown up and
sank. lie said the Brindisi had on
board 1,000,000 francs in gold, in addition
to the large quantities of food and
a m munition.
This ship was almost the last hope
of the Montenegrins," M. Vitta continued
"If she had landed her supplies
the Montenegrins would have been
able to hold out more effectively."
Battles Not Serious Ones.
Some additional light as to the situat
on in Montenegro. Albania and Serbia
has been obtained through G. J. Rakeman
and R. W. Strong of the American
sanitary commission and George L.
Jxtrillard. who has been in Serbia for
the United States government to pro-1
tect the interests of Austrian prisoners
QI mi nci'j u> me CJT uians.
Mr. Bakeman and Mr. Strong have arrived
at the American embassy, having
left San Giovanni di Medua for Brtndi?i
in one ot the last vessels to depart
from that abandoned Albanian town.
Mi. l,orillard has been in Rome for
several days.
Views expressed by Mr. Bakeman and'
Mr. Strong are in effect that the so-j
called sanguinary Montenegrin battles :
have :n reality not been ver\ heavy ,
and titi*t not fort;, men liad been j
wounded there in s.x months. The !
Montenegrin government, they said. J
was in readiness to leave the country!
for ltal\ or Greece whenever the step 1
became necessary.
Mr. I.orillard did not deny the views
of Mr. Hakrman and Mr. Strong, which
al?n inrliratfrf *lia? 1 nr-m ih? ?
of the war the Montenegrin government
had an understanding with the
Austrian* which made it unsafe for
any attempt** to be made at receiving
succor from Italy or other entente
allies
Mr. Hakeman. w ho ha* long been on;
t tie Adriatic coast, said;
"It is t~ue that the entente allies sent I
hundred of tons of food and munitions !
to Har. Giovanni di Medua at grear j
risk. The harbor there is a safe One j
10m attack. King Nicholas, however.'
wojld not come fo: the supplies or)
send tor them. Instead. 1 saw hi* so! - J
Her* carry away loads of furniture fori
his palace."
Discredited in Berlin.
RKFil.IN, via London. January 24.?
Moat of the Berlin newspapers discuss,
editorially, this morning the report
rnat the Montenegro peace move was
merely a ruse to obtain time to improve
tha military position. These reports
have been received here from Italian
sources, and the newspapers ?without
exception refuse to give credence t<
them.
It is pointed out that while undu<
importance should not be attached t<
the elimination of Montenegro from tin
list of opponents of the Teutonic allies
still, as a matter of fact, official report:
from Vienna affirm that not only th<
Montenegro soldiers, but also the Ser
bian troops in the west are rapidh
being disarmed, and the Berlin news
papers regard the kingdom of Monte
negro as having been conquered.
Holds Montenegrins Helpless.
Zl'RICH, via London. January 24.?^
Vienna dispatch says:
"It may be declared authentically
that the King of Montenegro has not
withdrawn his unconditional surrender
But even should he do so. it would not
change the condition of affairs, because
the Montenegrin army is no longer
capable of resistance, nine-tenths of
its artillery being in tlie bands of th?
Austrian troops, and the importation o!
munitions and foodstuffs being impossible.
as the Austrians have already occupied
Antivari.*'
A semi-official communication issuer
at Budapest. Hungary, contains th?
first admission from Teutonic source.'
to the effect that fighting has been resumed
in Montenegro. According tc
this report, a considerable portion ol
the Montenegrin army refused to surrender.
and fierce fighting was resuinec
Saturday in the mountains.
Austrians Take Adriatic Ports.
VIENNA. January 23. via London.
January 24.?The Austrians have occupied
the Adriatic seaports of Antivari
and Dulcigno. according to the official
communication issued today.
DECISION ON RULE 45
GOES TO HIGHER COURT
Appeal Perfected by President Blair
of the Board of Education.
Rule 45 of the board of education
which automatically removes a female
teacher from the public schools who
marries, will be passed on by the Court
of Appeals.
Henry P. Blair, president of the
board, today perfected his appeal from
the decision of Justice Gould, which
held the rule unreasonable and directed
the reinstatement of Mrs. Gladys Aline
Strong Hellmann.
Cost Bond Is Filed.
Through Assistant Corporation Counsel
Stephens. President Blair filed a
bond for costs of the appeal. William
T. Galliher and Ernest H. Daniel, both
members of the board, qualified as
surieties in their individual capacities.
Mrs. Hellman. through Attorneys Wilson,
Huidekoper & Lesh, will defend
the decision of Justice Gould before
the Appellate Court.
Four errors are alleged by the board
is being committed by the trial judge.
Alleged Errors by Court.
The claim is made that he should not
lave sustained the demurrer of Mrs.
Bellman to the board's answer to her
writ for mandamus, and should not
lave rendered judgment in her favor,
ind should not have directed the writ
ror lier reinstatement. The court also
srred, it is claimed, in holding rule 45
id be unreasonable and void.
POLICE RAID HOME OF
COUNTESS MARKIEVICZ
LONDON", January 24.?A dispatch to
he Central News from Dublin says:
"The police have raided the house of
Countess Markiev<cz and seized a printing
i>ress and t.vpe with which alleged proierman
literature was being printed. The
countess is the sister of an Irish baronet
md is married to a Polish nobleman.
?he was one of the leading sympathizers
with James Larkiri. head of the Transport
Workers'. Union, during the street
?ar striae riots in uublin in 1913, which
aere led by l^arkin. She also is well
known for ner activities among'the poor.
The police also have raided other suspected
houses, seizing arms and ammunition.
In no case was resistance of'ered
the raiders."
INDIAN DIES AT 150 YEARS.
Mary Tecnyai. Oldest Member of an
Almost Extinct Tribe.
BAKKRSFIEi.h, <"al.. January 34.- ,
Mary Tecuyas. an Indian woman, reputed
to he 1 .">0 years old. who died
yesterday, will be burled today by the
few remaining members of her tribe.
The aged squaw was the oldest member
of an almost extinct tribe, known
as the Tejons. who live in a canyon
near here.
The tribe is said to include fifteen Indians
who are more than 100 years old.
BRITISH AND TURKS BATTLE.
Heavy Fighting Near Knt-elAmara.
in Mesopotamia.
LONDON, January 24.?Heavy lighting,
occurred Friday between the British
army that is attempting to reach
Kut-el-Amara. in Mesopotamia, and
the Turks The battle took place at
Basin, seven miles from Kut-el-Amara,
under adverse weather conditions.
The British were unable to drive the
Turks from their positions. The purpose
of the British is to rescue the
original expeditionary force, which has
been surrounded at Kut-el-Amara by
the Turks.
Historic Fan Is Recovered.
KVANSV1LLE. lrid.. January 24.?An
ivory and mother-of-pearl fan which
the owner said formerly belonged to
the mother of Pope Pius IX. and is
more than 400 years old. was recovered
by the police here last night among
loot from a number of Evansville
hornet, which was located following
the arrest Friday of Walter Scott, an
alleged housebreaker. The fan was
given to Miss Minnie Henrieh of this
city by iter mother, who had received
it from her cousin, Rev. Mother Mary
Magdalena. formerly connected with
the family of Pope Pius IX.
A. L. Mohler Recovering Rapidly.
OMAHA. Neb.. January 24.?The condition
of A. la. Mohler. president of the
Union Pacific Railway Company, who was
Injured while skating yesterday, is reported
as very satisfactory today. Hi
has fully recovered consciousness, and his
physicians report his pulse and respiration
normal, and that aside from the shock
and a slight concussion of the brain he
suffered no ill effects from his fall.
; PRESIDENT URGES :
; LEADERS TO HUSTLE
I " 1
; Wants Congress to Clear Way j
J for the Administration's
Preparedness Program.
J .
htAKS IMA I BUSllMcaa
WILL BECOME CLOGGED:
! I
j I
, j Receives Many Requests for Addi-1
! i tions to List of Cities in His
i i Speechmaking Itinerary.
r
'J President Wilson started at to!
o'clock this morning upon the |
. busiest day he has had in the j
| White Mouse in months, partly <
i j concluding at 3 o'clock this afterj
noon, when he finished conferences
with chairmen of commit- j
tees in Congress in which he J
sought to get legislation pushed !
along so that the grind of that;
body may be well advanced before
the big work of the session?
preparedness?conies in sight.
Those will, the President this afternoon
were Representative Flood, chairman
of the House foreign affairs committee;
Representative Page of North
Carolina, chairman of the subcommit.
tee 011 appropriations handling the District
of Columbia appropriation bill;
Representative Stephens of Texas,
chairman of Indian affairs; Representative
Lever, chairman of agriculture,
1 and Senator Hitchcock, chairman of
the Senate Philippines committee.
The President and congressional
leaders are said to feel that the legislative
wheels are moving slowly and
that the prospects are for a great clogging
unless the decks are cleared for
the work which is to come later on.
Appropriation bills, especially, are
Seemingly delayed longer than had
been expected, and the hope of those!.
responsible to the country for legislation
is that those in charge of necessary
appropriation and other measures
will hustle their bills toward enactment.
Outlook Not Favorable.
It has been the hope of the President
and democratic leaders in Senate and
House that Congress will conclude the
important work mapped out for it and
adjourn early, owing to the political
phases of the summer and fall, but the
outlook has been getting worse and
worse for early adjournment, with the
possibility of a snarl that may do the
democratic party little credit in the
(approaching campaign.
The President, it became known today,
has reached the conclusion that he "
must fight to put his preparedness program
through, and he is going to do it.
His coming trip through the middle
west, to appeal to the country for sun- I
port, is already said to be bearing j
fruit favorable to his nut-poses. He I
does not believe that anybody is delib- I
jerately gumming up the legislative ma- (
chinery, but he is sure that the situation
will be much better for the most
important legislation if the less impor- i
taut bills are out of the way within the J
next month.
Requests for .Changes in Itinerary, j
Importuning the President to stop at I
places not now upon the itinerary 'of J i
his first tour, delegations continued to | ^
call upon Mr. Wilson today, and let
ters and telegrams arrived at frequent }
intervals. The President has agreed i
to stop at St. Louis February He '
will be entertained at breakfast by the 1
| Business Men's Association. Senators ;
! Stone and Peed called upon the Presi- !
f dent today and obtained his acceptance j
; of the invitation from that organiza- !
i tion arid the people of the city.
| The cities now included in the itin-J
erary at which speeches will be made [
are Pittsburgh. Cleveland, Milwaukee.
Chicago. l>es Moines. Topeka, Kansas I
I City and St. Louis. Speeches from the j
i train may be made at other points, j
j but this has not been definitely de- i
elded upon. In fact, the itinerary is '
still open and will not be announced I
for several days, it is said.
Secretary Tumulty has let it become'
known that the President prefers that i
meetings to be addressed by him shall I
be as public as possible. Me feels that j
the subject of preparedness is nonpartisan
and that, all the people are
interested. To have his audiences
made up of exclusively invited persons
would be objectionable to him
if some other method could be. de
vised. Me warns 10 urn to me people j
generally and not to any class or or- j
ganization. t
Callers With Urgent Pleas. I '
Senator Chilton of West Virginia |q
called on the President today and s
asked that West Virginia be included Ja
in the itinerary, with a stop at Wheel-I
ing: the South Carolina delegation inly
Congress called with an urgent request ^
that South Carolina be visited; Repre- a
sentative Edwards of Georgia and W. j. g
Pierpont, mayor of Savannah. Ga., v
called to ask that Savannah shall not
be overlooked; Representative Heflinjy,
i spoke a word for Birmingham, Ala.: if
Senator Oliver and Secretary Wilson of ;
the Department of I.abor pressed upon '
'he President the idea of accepting an ^
invitation heretofore given him to F
speak to the Pennsylvania State So- ,
ciety at Philadelphia in February or
March: Representative Sabath of Chicago
told the President that the Industrial
Club of Chicago would feel bad
if he failed to talk to that organization
when in Chicago.
Baltimore put in a bid for the Presi- *
dent by sending a committee from the *
Old Town Merchants' and Manufactur- i
: ing Association asking him to attend
the thirty-second annual banquet of r
that organization February 23. r
Invited to Virginia. ]
j .\ romnuucr ?? "m v t'Rwna legis- ?
j lature. escorted by an array of United '!
States senators and representatives, g
! formally invited the Pres.dent to speak r
i before that body before it concludes i
its sessions March 11. The President i
; took the invitation under advisement, s
1 but indicated that he would like to ac- \
cept if he found that he could do so.
The invitation to speak before the <
Virginia legislature was presented by t
1 Senators Martin and Swanson, Repre- i
sentatives Glass. Flood and Carlin, and t
; committees representing the t wo houses t
i of the general assembly. Ko date was 1
set. i
5 I
' I.'
JJI11
PRESIDENT EVADES :
SCHOOL SQUABBLE j
"?: I a
reJIs Commissioners He Will I
Not Agree to Appoint
Board. 1;
1<
rHE HOUSE COMMITTEE ?'
WILL BE SO INFORMED I
a
ts
3hief Executive Sayi He Will Con- 'tj
sent to No Legislation Which ''
Involves Him. ha,
. ' It
President \\ ilson will not con
:CiH to legislation that nrovirles i .
? i
.hat lie shall name the board of! "
. I V
education of the Distriet or a ,>
iireetor of education, lie does i p
tot wish to become involved in id
lie squabble over transfer of au- jt>
hority over the District schools.! ii
His attitude as t<> the proposi- 1 i.
ion that he shall name the board | r
if education will be officially i J>
liade known today by the Dis-j
rict Commissioners, who called |lpon
Mr. W ilson in a body and | L
.old him about the suggestion > I
hat a solution of the fight overj
he schools might be the giving
o liim of authority to nominate
:hc members of the board.
S
Informs Chairman Llo/d.
Inquiry as to whether appointment by
he President might be best was made
>y Representative Lloyd of Missouri
n the House hearings a few days ago.
"he inquiry was addressed to Com mi sioner
Newman, chairman of the board, ai
nd Mr. Newman said he could not then
rive answer, but would do so later. Mr. j ir
Joyd was Informed today that the j01
'resident does not wish such authority j
nd does not understand the local fight '
ufflciently to take any part in it, one j
ray or another. | di
The conference the Commissioners .
lad with the President was arranged Itc
or some time ago. before the hearings I
n me nousc. 11 W?n ucauou mat. li t I
rommissioners might talk with the si
'resident about their recommendations S<
o Congress as to appropriations and Si
>ther legislation. t!
Present Their Recommendations. ^
Most of the time today was taken in c<
roing over the developments in the
.chool fight, but the Commissioners
eft with the President a written state- h<
nent of their recommendations and the
easons these recommendations were ti
nade. The statement is wholly for the M
n format ion of the President, it was -j.
aid, that he might keep fully posted. T
The time was so short*-1he Commis- ^
doners did not talk about the recomnendation
for transfer of the appointment
of recorder of deeds from the
,Vbite House to the District Commissioners.
but this is included in the cs
vritten PSPer l?ft with Mr. Wilson. o
The school issue had not been dis- ti
ussed wirh the President before by
he Commissioners, it was said today, .
ind the three city officials did not seek ir
.0 -obtain the support or backing of tl
he President. They .merely wanted, ci
Urn to know the status of things, ft el
eras said, And were not disappointed to tl
v. v -yiv
nd a reluctance on his part to having
nything to do with the matter.
Letter to the Chairman.
Following the conference Commisioner
Newman this afternoon made a
urried trip to the Capitol to inform
tepresentajive Lloyd of Missouri that
he President does not desire that the
.uthority to appoint members of the
oard ofi education of the District he
ransferred from the Supreme Court of
he District to the chief executive.
The District heads incorporated the .
'resident's views in a letter- which j
Commissioner New man personally de- ;
ivered to Mr. Lloyd. The letter fol- j
aws:
"On Thursday last, at a hearing upon j
lie Commissioners" bill to change the !
dministrative form of the public school I
ystem of Washington you asked for !
n expression of opinion from the Com- I
lissioners on a suggestion that the '
uthority to appoint the board of edti- j
ation of the District of Columbia be j
iken from the judges of the Supreme j
durt of the District and he given to (
lie President of the United States. Be- i
?re responding the Commissioners felt j
hat they should obtain from the Presi- i
ent an expression as to whether he j
elieved that that authority should be j
ransferred to the chief executive.
Decision of the President.
"At a conference which the Commis- '
ioners had with the President this !
lorning he authorized them to inform j
ou that he does not favor the pro-'
osed change providing for the ap- j
ointment of members of the board of
ducation by the President". He said he j
oes not believe that, the President j
ould perforin that duty intelligently,
ecause of lack of time with which to J
amiliarize himself with local condiions
and personnel.
"The Commissioners are of the opin>n
that the proposed change would !
11 pose too great a burden upon the j
'resident and might require liiin to i
ike the advice of local officials and ;
thers. who would really make* the sepction
for which the President would
e held responsible."
1HIBITI0N FOR NATION!
ro BE CONSIDERED EARLY
enate Subcommittee to Hold Meeting
Wednesday Afternoon and
Take Up Resolutions.
Nation-wide prohibition resolutions
re to receive early consideration by
le Senate judiciary committee, it was
idicated today, when Senator Chilton'
r West Virginia, chairman of the subjmmittee
in charge of these resolu- !
ons, announced that he would hold i
leeting of the subcommittee Wednesay
afternoon.
The subcommittee consists of Sena>rs
Chilton, chairman; Fletcher, Florla;
Shields, Tennessee; Borah, Idaho,
nd Cummins, Towa. This is the same
jbcommittee, with the exception that
anator Cummins takes the place of
ftnator Dillingham of Vermont, as
lat which reported a nation-wide proibition
resolution to the full commit>e
last session of Congress. The full
>mmittee, however, failed to act upon
in the limited time of the short seson.
Last session extensive hearings were
aid on the resolution, and for that
!ason it is expected the subcommittee
ill proceed with the consideration of
le three prohibition resolutions before
without further delay. Two prohibion
resolutions have been introduced
lis session by Senato?- Sheppard of
exas and one by Senator Dillingham
T Vermont and all three are' before
ie subcommittee.
Interesting Martian Discoveries.
FLAGSTAFF. Ariz., January 24.?Five
inaliform rifts in the north polar cap
f Mars have been discovered by as- <
-onomers at Lowell observatory. The
bserved position, it was said today,
idicated that the most conspicuous of ,
tese lay along the course of the known
snaj*. Cadmus. The rifts show tlM
Ptect of the vegetation coming through
fie snow. ^
i
?
k
HENRY HURT DIES
FROMAPOFLEXY
Vice President of th#?i8pital
Traction Company Expires
at His Home.
LOCAL STOCK MARKET
SUSPENDS FOR THE DAY
Was Largest Shareholder of Riggs
National Bank and Prominent
in Financial Circles.
Henry Hurt, vice president of the j
I'anital Trarfion t'nmnnrtv th# luro-act !
shareholder in the Riggs National '
Bank, one of the largest in the Amer- j
ican Security and Trust Company and a j
director in both fiscal institutions, died j
at his home. 1G2."> 1' street northwest, at '
5 o'clock this morning of apoplexy.
The \Vashirgton Stock Exchange met !
as usual at noon, and on being called!
to order Daniel Eraser, in a few re- j
marks, told of the death of Mr. Hurt,
and the exchange adjourned, after the'
appointment of Daniel Eraser. William;
B. Hibbs. and Albion K. I'arris as a '
committee to prepare resolutions and 1
to attend the funeral.
(Jeorge E. Hamilton. Charles C. <?lo- j
' er. Milton . Ailes, E. S. Carle. Howard i
Reeside. Charles J. Bell and Thomas Snell,
the latter of Xeiv York city, have been se- |
lected as pallbearers. The funeral is to j
be entirely private; the hour not announced
as >et.
... - ,
Was a Confederate Veteran. j
The death of Henry Hurt brings to a
close the life of a man who has been in- |
timately connected with the business life j
of this city and its development since '
shortly after the close of the civil war, J
when lie came here a veteran of the Con- j
icuci rt ic aim*.
Arriving in Washington, he secured a
position as a conductor and driver 011
the Washington and Georgetown Street
Railway Company, and finally entered
the office and worked up to secretary
and later to the presidency of the corporation.
Financial men of this city will recall
with interest the fight made by Mr.
Hurt, assisted by Charles C. Glover and
the late George Kiggs, to retain the
presidency of the company, in which
the price of the shares advanced
greatly, and which established a friendship
between Mr. Hurt and the Riggs
Bank, later the Riggs National Bank,
that lasted throughout his life. As the
largest shareholder of the latter institution*
he gave his strongest support
to it during the last year.
Regular in His Habits.
Henry Hurt was six feet tall, weighed
about 200 pounds, dignified, selfpossessed
always, and. while being ac- \
live in his various positions and admit- '
tedly a millionaire, has never mfxed in '
politics or social life of the capital. ,
nia linuno " ^ vB ma ivu uj ?.?!*= u ULU
?he had few enjoyments away from ,
his home life, to which he was devoted. <
or away from his business. Integrity 1
arid strict honesty characterized his '
life. He returned to his home at :i
o'clock every afternoon and remained <
there until time to resume his business .?
duties. <
One of his closest business associates :
said of him today that as president of the
street railroad company which lie dominated
he was most scrupulously honest.
If a bond issue was coming out. as in the
case of a very large block of convertible
bonds, he would not permit a director f
of the corporation to purchase a dollar's '
worth of bonds fcefore every shareholue.' (
had been notified and given full informa- tiori
as to projects. He was as strictly
accountable, too. in his private affairs. 1
Mr. Hurt's only traveling since wealth 1
has made wide travel possible was a j
trip around the world in 1S92. Asida i
(Continued on Twelfth Page.) <
MEDIATION BOARD 1
FOR CIVIL SERVICE
? . |
Is Proposed in House Bill In- j
troduced by Representa- j
tive Keating.
TO REVIEW FINDINGS
OF HEADS OF BUREAUS
I
Measure Designed to Protect Subordinates
From Unjust or Arbitrary
Dismissal or Reduction.
Representative Keating today
in the House introduced a bill to
grant to eiViployes in tlie classitie 1
civil service of the government
the right to appeal to the United i
States board of mediation and con- j
filiation in all cases affecting the j
reduction in rank of the employes!
or their dismissal from the service.
The bill empowers the mediation
hoard to investigate
charges, review the decisions of j
department heads affecting the
employes' salary reductions or re
tcntion of position, and reverse,
such decision? if found upon in- j
vestigation to be unjust.
The principle involved in the
Keating measure?the right to aj
hearing and the right to an appeal i
?is one for which the civil serv-j
ice employes have long felt the!
need. Under the present civil j
service laws, friends of the meas- j
ure say, the arbitrary power of
removal is vested in the department
official.
No Appeal Permissible.
There is no appeal from his judgment
unless the religious or political
issue is raised, when the civil service
commission at times exercises its authority
and investigates the complaint
of the employe dismissed or demoted.
The Keating bill has the support of
the National Federation of Post Office
Clerks. According to Thomas F. Flaherty.
secretary-treasurer of the organization,
the need to postal employes i
of legislation to protect them from the !
power of transient political officials is j
greater than any other class of government
workers.
"The post office clerk is the most j
highly specialized workman in the j
country," said Air. Flaherty today. "He j
acquires an expert knowledge of mail!
.i:n? ..i D/>liari<oa liunn hie limti '
after working: hours. This knowledge. !
the result of ten or fifteen years of con- j
slant study, can only be utilized in one j
place?the post office. Hence to the i
postal worker his job is his all. He is,
helpless in any other occupation. He
cannot sell his expertness to an> en;- j
ployer but the government: there is j
no rival postal concern to bid lor h's :
services. It is unjust to these men to |
place their positions, which are every-,
thing to them, at the mercy of uny one :
man.
Necessity for Mediation.
"A biased post office inspector, .in in- I
competent postmaster, an inexperienced
official at a desk in Washington, can j
pick any man out of the service, and j
there is no tribunal to which an appeal ,
can be made. The department officials j
are the complainants, the jury, the 1
judges and the executioners. No appeal '
can be made from their decisions. W e j
feel that if the mediation board were,;
empowered to review these decisions'
there would be fewer cases of men be-. <
ing unjustly demoted or dismissed. : ,
"In Fairmont. W. Va? a short time j :
ago twenty-stx clerks and carriers re- ,
signed in concert. In every resignalion
the same thought is found?the j!
postal worker had lost faith in the : ]
civil service laws to protect him. HeJ<
had seen a number of cases where fel-!i
low-workers had been summarily dis- \
missed without apparent cause. He
knew there was no chance for him to avoid
official vengeance if it were visited
upon him. And he resigned to escape
what he thought was a certainty 1
?dismissal without a chance for a
hearing from others than those preferring
the charges. He knew there (
was no avenue of appeal from the de- 1
vision of the postmaster and the in- j ;
spector. Had these men at Fairmont .
been accorded the right to ask the I
mediation board to investigate they j 1
would not now be adjudged guilty of j
a conspiracy charge, which resulted in j \
fines for twenty-three inen and death j ,
by suicide of another.
"The need of corrective legislation '
as is conteaiplated in the Keating bill |
is imperative to the postal workers." ' t
. i 1
TTrRKTSH OFFICERS DROWNED I.'
Twenty-One Reported Thrown Into j
Boiporus With Stones to Necks. ,'
LONDON". January H.?Fifty thou- , I
Hand German troops have arrived at j *
Constantinople, according: to Saloriiki ! j,
dispatches. British correspondents ex- J
press the view that the object of this j
irmy is not an expedition ag-ainst
E?>pt. but lo support the authority of f
ihe Turkish war minister, Enver r
Pasha. c
Greek reports say that the Turks re- t
gently have been restive under the rule
Enver Pasha, and serious plots
igainst him have been discovered, c
hese being suppressed ruthlessly. Jt
"A single night recently," says one |
correspondent. "twenty-one Turkish!
jfflcers suspected of disaffection were
dropped into the Bosporus with stones!
iround their necks." I
, ! b
Serb Territory for Bnlgars. jlc
LONDON. January 24.?Renter's Am- It?
iterdam correspondent sends a dispatch ?\
eceived from Sofia which says Ger- J:
nany has invited the Bulgarian gov- t<
srnment to occupy the towns and diaricts
of Prisrend, Pristina. Krusevac. J1
fvuprya, Pozarevac and Prokuplje in
Serbia, and Djakova in Montenegro, ]
which have been held recently by the r
Jermans. c
f
FEDERAL INCOME
TAX UPHELD BY
SUPREME COURT
Declared to Be Constitutional
in Decision Announced by
Chief Justice White.
PUTS INTO FORCE NEW
REVENUE RAISING SYSTEM
Law Now Produces Sum Second
Only to That Accruing From
Customs Duties.
ALL OBJECTIONS ANSWERED
Conclusions in Brushober Case Hold
Act Not tJnconstitutional. in Being
Retroactive, or Because
of Exemptions.
I lie Stiureme (liiurl <>i the
United States todav. through |
Chief Justice White, held constitutional
the federal income ta\,
sweeping aside all the many objections
urged to its constitutionality
in whole or in part. The
decision thus puts into force a
new system of taxation in the
United States, now bringing*into
the federal Treasury revenues second
only to customs receipts.
Decision in Brushaber Case.
Chief Justice White announced the
court': conclusion in the case of Frank
R. Brushaber. stockholder of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, who had
sought in the New York federal district
court to enjoin the company from
paying: the tax on the ground that it
was unconstitutional.
The decision upholding the tax wa?
unanimous. Justice McReynolds. because
of activity as Attorney General,
took no part in the decision. Besides
the Southern Pacific case, none of the
other income taxes were disposed of
formally.
Most of his opinion was directed
toward proving the error of the contention
in effect that the sixteenth
amendment, by reason of which the income
tax was placed in the UnderwoodSimmons
tariff act, provided a hitherto
unknown power of taxation?"that is. a
power to levy an income tax which, although
direct, should not be subject to
the regulation of apportionment applicable
to all other direct taxes.'' Going
far into the history of income tax legislation.
the Chief Justice concluded
this argument against the tax was
without merit.
Advancing to other points, t ie court
held that the tax was not unconstitutional
because retroactive. Chief Juslice
White pointed out that the tax law
was enacted October 3. 1013. and was
imposed upon all income after March *
1. 1913. lie held that the.United States
possessed the pow.?r to impose the lax
after March 1. and therefore under decisions
as to other laws the tax could
be retroactive to that rtate.
Exemption Point Answered.
The point that the statute was unconstit
utional because labor, agricultural
ami horticultural organizat io?is.
etc.. were exempted, was held to be
ansvt ered by decisions under the corporation
tax law. He said the point
was but another illustration of the erroneous
assumption that the tax w as
imposed under a new power conferred
upon i he government by the sixteenth
intendment, whereas it was a power
recognized to exist from the beginning
of the government, and thus decisions
defining the taxing power previously
rendered were applicable to it.
Then grouping a long list of other contentions
against the law. all based on assumed
violation "f the clause of the Constitution
requiring uniformitv in ta..a-Lion.
Chief .Justice White pronounced them*11
lacking merit, because of previous deharl
(intfrminpfi that iheL
uniformity clause exacted only a gcigraphical
uniformity.
Points Included in Group.
This group included the points that
the tax lacked uniformity because:
1. Levies one tax on income of individuals
up to $-0,000 .and a higher
rate on incomes above that amount;
illows a greater exemption for married
persons than single ones, and bases the
tax 011 wealth alone.
Requires corporations at great expense
to perform the government ?.
ivork, without compensation, of collectng
at the source.
Corporations indebted upon coupon
ind registered bonds are relieved <?'"
abor and expense involved m denuding
and paying the taxes of individuals
>n the income derived from bonds.
4. Corporations required to pay at the
;ource would often pay taxes for per;ons
not required because of cxempions
lo pay.
5. Bondholders, during t!ie interval
ret ween the deducting and the pay1
av r*n their bonds. are de
irivcd of the us*- of their money with*
leld.
W.hen Bondholders Suffer.
6. Bondholders of corporations which
ail before they pay the lax would l?e
equired to pay the tax although the
orporation had deducted the tax from
he amount due the bondholders.
7. Double payment of taxes, where
orporations assume the payment of
axes on bonds.
g. Amount of interest on indebtedness
a be deducted from gross income of cerlin
corporations.
0. Individuals arc allowed to deduct
roni gross income dividends paid them
y corporations, but corporations not al>wed
to make such deductions.
1(?. Individuals whose income is
tan $20,000 are allowed to deduct $3.nno
r $4,000. but these receiving more than
20,000 not allowed to make such deuction
a second time for the additional
IX.
11. Greater deductions are allowed
nan and wife living together than
hose living separately.
12. Owners of houses in which they
ive are not compelled to estimate the
ental jvalue in making up their inomes,
while those living iu rented *
i
