T"
IfteErogfiro me
WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair Tonight and Tuesday.
(Pull Rop6rt on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NUMjBEB 8780.
WASHINGTON, MONDATT EVENING, JANUARY 24, 1910.
PKICE ONE CENT.
.
?
DOW RAIDED
BY AVIATORS;
DOCKS OF CITY
ARE ATTACKED
Berlin Admiralty Asserts Navy
Aeroplanes Assailed English
Seaport Early on Sunday
Morning.
London Press Calls for Better
Defense Against New and
Powerful Type of Battle
Planes of Germans.
BERLIN, via wireless, Jan. 24
German naval aeroplanes bom
barded the station at Dover, Eng
land, the barracks, and the docks
early on Sunday, the admiralty an
nounced today.
Dover is a city of about 15,000,
sixty-six miles east-southeast of
London, and in the county of Kent
The German admiralty statemeni
apparently casts doubt upon the
report that London may have been
attacked by the raiding aeroplanes
on the visit early Sunday' morn
ing.
It is possible, however, that the
second raid, which occurred Sun
day noon, was made over London.
Dover is a great shipping town,
particularly for trader between
. France 4nd .EngJajapVflnd jmany
vessels generally lie at its two
spacious docks! ,
New Aerial Attacks on
London Forecast; Press
Urges Better Defense
LONDON, Jan. 24. A renewal or Oar
man aerial attacks on London prob
ably by squadrons of German Kokkers,
the "Uhlans of the air," Is predicted by
the London press today in commenting
on the raids on the Kentish coast yes
terday, In which one person was killed
and six Injured
Aeronautic experts declare that aero
plane attack's probably will supplant
Zeppelin visits until the weather is more
favorable for voyages by the sky
rifeadnaughts. They call upon tho gov
ernment to make better preparations to
defend London against the giant Kok-
ker battle planes.
The London Times assailed the censor
for forbidding publication of the exact
localities attacked yesterday. The
Times declared that both raids were
witnessed b- "large numbers of peo
ple" and that tho German aviators cer
tainly knew exactly where they were.
Two Raids Made.
Questioning the military advantage
of suppressing such information, the
Tlmos declared:
"There were two raids yesterday, one
delivered in bright moonlight o,nd the
other at high noon. They were wit
nessed by large numbers of people,
who know exactly where they tooK
place. The enemy airmen were certain
ly under no llluslpna as to their wnerc
abouts. Berlin is no doubt Informed by
this time, and in a dav or two, if the
censor permits, we1 shall publish an ac
count of tho locality from German
sources."
The Daily Mail declared that the
Sunday raids showed the folly of believ
ing that London has been made Immune
from air attacks. slmDlv because no
Zeppelins have attacked tho city for
several montns.
Expect Other Attacks.
"The raids en Kent promptly con
fiirncd Flight Commander Billings' pre
diction that aeroplane raids are apt to
become more dangerous than Zeppelin
raids." said the Mail.
Sonic of tho aeronautic writers believe
the Fokker acroolane was built solely
for defensive purposes and is Incapable
of a flight to London
Others give warning, however, that
the German flghtlhg ship Is probably
well equipped for a quick dash to Eng
land. Despite the anxletv felt in London
over recent successes of the new Ger
man aeroplanes, correspondents sta
tioned at the British front report that
skilled English aviators have encoun
tered and defeated tho Fokker pilots.
In ono such engagement, the Chronicle's
coi respondent declares, a British Aviator
touted two Fokkqrs and a third German
plane.
BUnUN (via wireless to Sayvllle),
Jan. 2i. Bombs thrown by French avia
tors in their raid on Motz. capital of
Lorialne, fell on the bishop's residence,
It Is officially announced this afternoon.
Two civilians were killed and eight
wounded. One of the enemy aeroplanes
was shot down and Its occupants cap
tured Bamhn nl3o fell In tho hospital court
r.t Metz. the war oflice announced.
It is also stated that several In-
1, A It.. A M t u lj..innlli Qa..I.Ia ...aha
killed and wounded by bombs thrown I
by aviators from the allies' camp In1
Greece.
Incqrhe Taxis Upheld
By U. S. Supreme Court
; the Federal Income tax law was declared constitutional in the
Supreme Court today.
The law was passed by Congress in 1913, following the adoption by
the States of the income tax amendment to the Federal Con
stitution. The decision was made in the case of Brushabcr vs. Union Pacific,
brought in the Supreme Court because the law collected taxes
prior to the date on which it went into effect; because it col
lected taxes at the source; and because, it was charged, it is
discriminatory and taxes 'property without due process of law.
The decision today directly affects five cases, which were grouped
and argued in October, 1915. Each raised different points in
appealing from decisions of lower1 courts upholding the validity
of the law.
PRESIDENT UREtES
LEGHE SPEED
Summons Congress Leaders to
Confer on Appropriation
Measures.
Summoning to the White House the
chairmen of various committees and
subcommittees handling appropriations.
President Wilson today proceeded to
use his executlvo influence In favor of
Bpeed. He wants the decks cleared
for concentrated effort on the array and
navy bills and tho ship purchase legis
lation. One of the measures which tho
President Is anxious to get out of the
way is tho District appropriation bill.
Among those summoned to the White
House was Congressman Robert N.
Page, of North Carolina, chairman of
the aubcommltte of the House Appro
priations Committee.
Others were Chairman Flood, of the
House Foreign Affairs: Chairman
Lpver, of the House Agriculture:
Chairman Stephens, of Indian Affairs,
and' Senator Hitchcock, chairman of
the Senate Committee on the Philip
pines. The President's appointments with
these members follows: Mr. Flood at
' o'clock, ,Mr, Stephens at 2:15, Mr.
Lever at 2:46. Mn Pake at 2:30. and
Sonator Hitchcock at 4 o'clock.
TVifl' PruMifnt hntina. 4hai rrSantr nt
theie bills wilL be out oMhe way by
Ka ltM.Vt.V tf.ll.H 4Mr 1.1. .fh
through the .Middle jWest la behalf
of national defense..
The President has flatly refused to
consider any Invitation to speak be
fore political organisations during
the trip.
lUILLISKTURKS
State Department Wants Infor
mation Concerning Repbrts
on Persia Disaster.
Following tho publication of reports
that Turkey has admitted responsibility
for the sinking of the Persia last montn
tho State Department announced today
that instructions will be sent to Am
bassador Morgenthau at Constantinople
to make Inquiry of the Turkish gotern
ment as to the operations of l(s sun
marines in the Mediterranean.
At the same time, State Department
officials said their contemplated action
was not Influenced by the news reports
of Turkey's admission of responsibility
for the Persia disaster. It was the
original plan, the department autnort
tatively announced, to send the same
inquiries to Constantinople that were
sent to Berlin and Vienna.
The State Department today had no
confirmation of the report from Amster
dam that the Turkish government was
preparing a note to the United States
admitting that a Turkish submarine was
responsible for sinking the Persia.
No inquiry will be made of Ambassa
dor Gerard at Berlin as to the truth of
the Amsterdam dispatch, officials said,
although it was based on Berlin advices.
There was no disposition to take official
cognizance of the reported Turkish ac
tion until tho matter is officially re
ported to the department.
The Turkish submarines that aided In
the Dardanelles campaign were manned
by German officers and crows.
Seeks to Abolish
Electoral Vote
Nebraska Senator Goes On Record
In Favor of Direct Choosing
Of President.
The abolition of the Electoral College
and the election of the President and
Vice President by direct vote of the
people today was advocated in a reso
lution by Senator Norrls of Nebraska.
"Originally," said Senator Norrls,
"electors really used their dlocretlon In
choosing President. Now they are use
less. "The plan now makes impossible an
independent candidate for President or
Vice President and also makes it im
possible for a man to vote Tor a Presi
dent on one ticket and Vice President
on another. Further, it obstructs the
passage or Presidential primary laws."
Air Raid on Monastir.
SALONIKI, Jan. 24. A squadron pt
forty-five French aeroplanes bombarded
Austro-Bulgarian headquarters at Mon
astir Sunday morning inflicting heavy
damage.
FOR DATA ON SUBS
AGED WOMAN DEAD
IN H STREET FIRE
Mrs. Mary Scott Turner, Life
long Resident of Capital, Vic
tim of Apartment Blaze.
Fire In an apartment house at 172J-33
H street northwest early today resulted
in the death of Mrs. Mary Scott Tur
ner, eighty-three years old and a life
long resident of this city. Mrs. Turner,
who was practically an invalid, was
overcome by the emoko, according to
. ta.tfMfnnt of Miss Etta Josselyn
Orlffln and her mother, who were inti
mately acquainted with the aged wom
an. Warned In Vision.
Mrs. Turner's death uncannily fol
lowed a dream in which sho declared
she declared she was warned of Im
pending danger. When Mrs. Turner
awokd yesterday morning she was hvs
terical and explained that her excite
ment was due to a dream In which her
son tho late Lieut James Turner. U.
8. M. C, had appeared tc her. Sho said
her son. In the dream, called purslet
ently for help for his mother .and
warned her that a gruve danger hung
over her.
Mrs. Turner told the details of tho
dream to many cf her friends in tho
apartment, and, anions: others. Mm.
iWiena Hill Vced Mi up with hor
Wat rUsjht until, alio became uurilclcntiv
Mint -Trt aIa ,1 1 '." T -
flArnlV DtAMtthan fan timo'l....
Are. hitfi tesuited . hVr deatY.roke
The antics, of- a black kitten, who
Awakened MJss Griffin shortly after 1
o'clock, probably saved the lives of
Sarm. occupants, by giving the
.. Mr- Turner was the widow of Wil
liam Turner, of this city. Funeral
services will probably be held to-
SJSKrCn!n.i.at- ratrlck'B Church. Her
body will then be sent to San Franchico
for interment beside her husband and
ner son
JEJiSi b,liro 'm 'n undrtcr
mined cause in the bailment of Kil H
SiEVi .fh0 k,iln- nMkn. ownei .v
t.k Gr"9n' who conducts the National
Library for the Blind, awakened it
mistress by frantic mewing.
"All J1J1H a T a .1. .. -..
n-i7 ilVi , "ircu.- nam .miss
.Sl-Sl?' f00WJns the fire. "I heard tho
""" yi names ami smcllrd the
?.m2? ""hed tntr the hallway and
turned in an alarm, nnd then returned
to rouse my mother and Mrs. Turner."
Others Made Escape.
In the meantime a second alarm had
been sent over the telephone by Miss
Elsie M. Hill, daughter of the for
mer Congressman tram r?nnnJ-.iA...
and her sister. Mrs. Weed, while Miss
Griffin went into the corridors of the
h. niiciii itouse 10 aid in arousne
the occupants of the ten flats.
Warped in time, all had made their
escape through the smoke filled build
ing: when Miss Griffin noticed that
neither her mother nor Mr. Turner,
who had been suffering from the ef
fot",f. a broken arm sustained when
she fell over "BllltUen" two months
?&4,?i!or ,12? among those taken
from the building.
-.iU .!ffln ur?ed tne flremen to
renew their search, although thev de-
lffi..sh HayL8' that a" had been
fng smoke filled build"
.?uffurJ&' "ays M,8S Griffin result-
ti miT. e. Mrit Tur"er, according
tS MJ.?L,ar.lffln,: when founJ was able
to walk to the hallway, but therS
she collapsed A physician wm call?
.h- Til. ,7 niierea treatmont. but
ahe died Just after 10 o'clock today.
Allen Liner Meets
Accident off Fastnet
Pomeranian, Disabled in Region
of Submarine Activity, Turns
to Port.
QUBENSTOWN, Jan. 2i.-Tho Allan
liner Pomeranian, bound for Canada
h ben disabled southwest of Fastnet
SSSffi'SI. t0Ward Q-ensto
be'ereporte'd.01 thS ttCC'dent ,,M "ot
The Pomeranian Is an Iron screw'
Hu'nnma.''2" ton8' and tmft
German submarines Infested the
waters off Fastnet earlier in the war
and recently are reported to have re-
h!?Hed itt'C act,vlty ""a neighbor
hood' which Is west of the locality
where the Lusltanla and Arabic were
torpedoed.
Russian Torpedo Boats
Sink 33 Turkish Ships
S5tR0.a?AD' Jan- HuMlan tor
pedo boats have sunk thirty-three Turk
ish sailing ships and destroyed seven at
their docks In' a rold along the Ana
tolian coast, the ministry of mArlne an
nounced today. The torpedo boat flo
tilla also bombarded three wharves and
destroyed the stores, barracks, and cus
houses at the Turkish villages of. Sam-
SSS'.f .,rm?JiatSr Sn th Asia. Minor
coast of the Black Sea.
L
ATTACKS TAL
Tries to Minimize Story of Wo
man Writer as to Negro's
Solioitude for Defendant.
MAKES CHARGE OF TRICKERY
Miss Stevenson Breaks Down
Afjter Severe Grilling by At
torney Lewis,
rnOVIDENOE, II. T Jan. 24. Miss
Gertrude Stevenson, Boston newspaper
woman, was tho first witness called to
the stand today at tho opening of the
third week's session tt the murder trial
In which Mrs. EtU.beth F. Mohr nnd
two negroes are defending themselves
against the chargo of conspiring to
murder Dr. C. Franklin Mohr last Au
gust' Leaning her chin on her hand, Miss
Steyenson' gased abstractly about the
courtroom whllo much flickering was
carried on by Attorney Uswls for the
defense and District Attorney nice be
causo of the witness' insistence on be
ing allowed to explain hor responses.
Rice championed her while Lewis
fought bitterly to shut off the young
woman's flow of language.
Used Mrs. Mohr's Name.
Lewis again brought out that the wit
ness had told the negro rlo in Jail that
she had just come from Mrs. Mohr.
"I went in the courtyard at the Bristol
Jail," the said, "and Bpoke to Brown,
Hpellman and Hcalla, through the grat
ing over their cell window. Brown ask
ed me how Mrs. Mohr felt, and after I
replied that she was feeling badly
Brown asked me to' tell hor not to feel
that way."
Lewis tried to ralnlmlzo the effect of
Miss Stevenson's direct testimony by
citing that Brown's request that Mrs.
Mohr send him counsel was not a sinis
ter move inasmuch as ho formerly
Worked for her. The negro's solicitude
for Mrs. Mohra ncaiiu was oniy
natural, as sho wut in many ways his
benefactress, according to Lewis.
Lewis also tried to show Miss Steven-
fW&n's prejudice against the negro .raw.
but she managed to say mat sue had
"never expressed any antipathy for the
negro defendants." she denied any race
prejudice, and was very careful in her
choice of words. The most noticeable
part of hor testimony was her continual
reference to tho negro defendants as
"colored men." or "darkies." which
seemed to bo preferable to the defense.
Lawyer Alleges Trickery.
Tilckery In attempting to obtain the
confidence of the prisoners was the
basis of Lewis' examination of Mrs.
Stevenson, and later ho attempted to
impugn her veracity.
As Miss Stevenson left 'the stand she
barely repressed a sob. and appeared
greatly agitated. She managed to get
just outsiae oi mo court room bciorc
breaking; down entirely. Her sobs could
be heard distinctly in the room she had
just left.
Theodore K. Hcdlund was the next
witness. His testimony corroborated
Miss Stevenson's in nearly ail respects,
especially Brown's request that Miss
Stevenson ask his sister to be sure to
substnatlate his (Brown's) alibi.
F
Man Arrested in Connection With
Theft of Notes in West Vir
ginia Last October.
After months of Investigation, post
office Inspectors have made the first
arrest In the train robbery near Cen
tral Station. W. Va., that attracted
nation-wide attention October 8, vrhen
bandits held up a fast mail train and
escaped with several hundred thousand
dollars, mostly In unsigned bank notes.
Chler Postal Inspector John C. Koons
was Informed today that Inspectors
Lemon, Chapman, Chambers, and Kin
zcl had arrested John Harrison at San
Antonio, on a charge of participating
in tho hold-up.
The telegram to Chief Inspector Koons
states that two of the bank notes were
found on Harrison, and that other dam
aging evidence against him had been
discovered.
Other arrests are expected in a short
time as a result of information obtained
in the Harrison arrest.
Oti thn mornlntr of October a a mimW
of masked men liold up the New York
and Ornfton fast mall train at Central
Htatlon. They covorod the engineer and
hrakemnn and compelled them to un
couple the passenger coacheu and run
into a mountain gorge with the mail car.
They rifed the car nt their leisure and
obtained, besides the ordinary booty, a
number of packases of newly printed
Link notes shipped from Wushtngtou.
The bandits CBCfiped, despite a pos,
railroad detectives, and poirtoftice in
spectors who were rushed to the, scene.
Says Name of Foti
Causes Confusion
Because the "uso of the name of 2otI
nrnriure confusion and calls for expla
nations," Santo Foti today petitioned
the District Supremo Court for the
Srlvllego to change his name to Samuel
anto Fort. The petitioner tells the
court that he Is commonly known as
"Fort" and receives mall addressed to
that name. The petition was flleti l.v
Attorneys Mlllan & Smith, r
MOHR
AWYE
F REPORTE
HELD OH CHARGE 0
BIG MAIL ROBBERY
Secret Codes of U. S.
Known To All Europe,
Col House Informed
President's Special Envoy Will Bring Back Request
That Administration Change Its System Prac
tically No Secrecy Said to Be Possible in
Diplomatic Messages.
By CARL W. ACJKKBMAN.
BERLIN (Via Amsterdam), Jan. 24. -The supposedly secret diplo
matic cods bf the United States Government are known to practi
cally every belligerent in Europe, it was learned today. Col. E. M.
House, who is conferring with American ambassadors in Europe as the
confidential agent of President Wilson, will have this fact impressed
Upon him- before he returns to Washington. Through him the State
Department will be asked to change its cipher.
It is now impossible for any diplomatic agent of the United States
in Europe to cable a message to Washington with the certainty that it
will be transmitted without its contents being known in Europe. In
some instances officials of more than one belligerent country can
know the contents of such a message before it reaches Washington.
American diplomatic agents realize officials of the belligerent
nations have not the time to examine all the dispatches they send to
Washington. But when these officials know that important dispatches
are about to be transmitted, as is often the case, they can be on the
alert. ,
Not only is it possible for European belligerents to obtain such
information, but it is known that they "have done so in numerous
instances. A dispatch recently cabled to Washington by Ambassador
Penfield, at Vienna, is an illustration. Penfleld used the usual route,
cabling via Berne and Paris. He first telegraphed to Berne that such
a dispatch was coming; then he telegraphed it in code. Four davs
.later the American minister to
(Continued
DRYS LOSE PLACE
Callfornian Will Succeed Sena
tor Kern of Indiana as Mem
ber of Board.
Senator James D. Phelan of Califor
nia will succeed Senator Kern of In
diana on the District Committee of
the Senate.
While this has not yet been officially
announced, it became known today thnt
Senator Phelan had been decided upon
by Democratic leaders, and that tho
caucus doubtless would accept him.
Senator Kern, Democratic leader of
the Senate, sent In his resignation as .-.
member of the committee. Senator Kern
gives as his reason the burden of his
other duties, including that of caucus
chairman.
Back of the whole matter stands big
politics relating to the prohibition Is
sue, It is said. When it becamo known
that Senator Kern would quit, the
friends and opponents of prohibition
for the District, among the Senate
Democrats, began to bestir themselves.
Senators In favor of a dry District
wanted Senator Vardaman of Missis
sippi placed on the committee. Thoso
who are opposed to prohibition for the
District favored some other man, and
finally settled on Senator Phelan. The
California Senator Is expected to op
pose the movement to -make the Dis
trict dry.
He is considered an expert in munici
pal affairs, and was prominent for
years as mayor of San Francisco.
Although Senator Kern pleaded that
he was burdened with other duties,
some of his friends pointed out today
that he was Involved In a hard Senato
rial fight in Indiana, and that It would
have been embarrassing him politically
to have remained on the committee,
and especially to have remained as the
head of the subcommittee on prohibition
to which position he had been assigned.
Review Is Asked of Case in
Which Judge Gould Ordered
Teacher Reinstated.
Tho Board of Education today appeal
ed from the decision of the- District Su
premo Court, which recently ruled that
rule 45, providing for the dismissal of
teachers who marry. Is unconstitutional.
By tiling an appeal bond, the Board of
Education seeks o have the Court of
Appeals review the vase brought by
Mrs. Gladys Aline Strnncr Hcllman. in
whose favor Justice Oould Issued a
writ Of mandamus requiring tho Board
of Education to reinstate tho teacher.
The rulins of the lower court was
that the Board of Education could not
arbitrarily suspend t-nchers whose ef
ficiency was not ouestioned bv the mere
fact of their entering the marrlaoro stato
while servlne a- school Instructors.
.Tuxtlce Could' opinion unhcld the con
tention of Mr-, Hollmann" that the
school hoard dlsrriminated In her ense.
Mrs. Hellmann's attorneys were Wil
son. Heldceooper. and I.esh. The Board
of -Education was represented by As
sistant Corporation Counsel Stcephens.
ON D. C. COMMITTEE TRACTION SERVICE
r.u w.3 J k. r a. - .t ,i a. - . It Ism awir -- - jk . - . . -
RULE 45 DECISION
APPEALED BY BOARD
Switzerland wired Penfield that his
on Page Two.)
FILES PROTEST ON
W(ferdf Student of Eoonomics
Urges District to Improve
Conditions by Purchase.
Charging that, if the first concern of
the Capital Traction Company "were to
give public service instead of to pay
dividends on watered stock It would, be
willing to make any necessary expen
diture to insure adequate service," Mrs.
Charles Edward Russell, in a letter to
the Public Utilities Commission, urges
the commission to recommend the pub
lic ownership of this utility.
Mrs. Russell, wife of a magazlno
writer and student of economics, who
Is at 1023, Fiftoenth street, asserts that
the company's cars "have been -ub-Jected
to gross and indecent crowding
without even the excuse of ab
normal conditions or rush hour."
The service Mrs. Russell complained
of was on the Fourteenth street line.
In a reply to her first letter J. t,.
Schley, executive officer of the com
mission, stated that "tho Improvement
of the service on this line Is not a
question of the number of cars that tho
company Is willing to place In service,
but Is a question of the physical capac
ity of the tracks." He said there Is
considerable doubt whether any more
cars can be operated through the
switch at Fifteenth street and New
Vork avenue.
The letter of tho commission, dated
December 23, continues;
The Capital Traction Company ap
plied to the commission several months
ago for authority to construct a line
on Seventeenth street and a loop In the
vicinity of Fifteenth street and New
Vork avenue. One of the objects of
this construction was to relieve tho con
gestion at this Intersection. The nro
5?AeJ?. ,lnoJon Seventeenth street was
disapproved by the commission after
hearing. The commission then took
wfPh8.rft0.J?8er.ia,n w!6t"er the company
n.h wLt0 "iak0 aPP"ctlon to construct
the loop alone. The company stated
(Continued on Third Page.)
SAYS II. S.SIDNT
General Crozier Tells House
Military Affairs Committee
Plan Is Impracticable.
Exclusive Government manufacture
of war munitions, advocated bv a grow
inlK number of members of the House
and Senate, who believe such a plan
would stop agitation for wars by muni
tion sellers, was declared impracticable
today by General Croxler. chief of ord
nance. In his testimony before the House
Committee on Military Affairs.
To build plants with a capacity of
tuinlshlng tho supplies required by the
ar Department under Its tour-year
plan, he snltl, would lequlro un Immedi
ate Investment of Jjo.ow.uoo and to sup
ply for an army such aa Kngland now
haa in tho Held an Investment or J4W,.
UO.WX).
MAKE ENOUGH ARMS
WILSON TURNS
DOWN REQUEST
TO NOMINATE
SCHOOL BOARD
President Declines Responsibil
ity of Following Suggestion
Made by Congressman Lloyd
as Compromise.
Fails to Express Himself at All
on Question When Commis
sioners Newman and Brown
low Call. f i
President Wilson today 'declined
the responsibility of appointing the
members of the School Board of
the District. He informed Com
missioners Newman and Brown
low, who called at the White
House to discuss with him all
features of pending District legis
lation, that he could not adopt the
suggestion.
The suggestion was put forth
last week by Congressman Lloyd,
of the House District Committee,
during a hearing on the provision
in the District bill transferring to
the Commissioners the appoint
ment of members of the board.
NAMED BY JUDGES.
These, members aro novy named by the
Judeoa nn thtl Ttlat-ti.. o, ,.,,,. ru
r . . . ?. - w-v.uio .uvue".
-Mr. LlOVd StlnA(ll..lhnf"Vi3 .n..l.l.
mentsEa. given, to -the President aaa
vwiMf.uiiu-c. m tno umo, commis
sioner Newman asked permission to
consult' with his colleagues on the com
mission and today he availed hlmsel.'
or the engagement with the President
made before tho school board row camo
up, to bring It to the tatter's attention
Although declining the responsibility
the President did not express himself
ono way or another concerning the pro
posal to transfer the appointment to
the commission. The Commissioners,
however, left with him a detailed writ
ten memorandum setting forth their
reasons for the proposed change.
Attenvard Commissioner Newman r- -turned
to tho District building anrt die
tatcd n letter .o Congressman iioyj
explaining tho PwaloentV attitude ...
the question of tho appointment of
the Capitol nnd delivered the letter to
Congressman Lloyd in person.
Commissioners 'Letter.
Following is tho letter;
"On Thursday last, ot a hearing upo-i
the Commissioners' bill to change th
administrative form of the public school
bystem of Washington, you aaked fc
an expression of opinion irom the Com
missioners on a suggestion that the m
thorlty to appoint th Board or Eduen
tlon of the District of Columbia i
lakon from tho Judges of the Suprcu.
Court of the District nnd bo given t.i
tho President or th.i United States. Be
fore responding tho Commirsioners tc
That they should obtain from the Pres
dent an expression as to whether ho b
lleved thut that authority should l;
iransrened to the Chief Executive.
"At a contiience which the Coratrlh
si ners had uith the President this
morning, he authorized then- to inform
you that he doc-a r.ot fumr the proposed
change providing ror the appointment
of inemborn or the Iloaid ot Education
by the President, lie said he does noi
believe that the President could rei
form that duty Intelligently becaute
lack or time with which to familiarize
himselC with local conditions and pi
sonncl. "Tho Commissioners are of the opin
ion that tho proposed change would in.
poe too great a burden upon the Prow,
dent, and might require him to take tne
advice or local officials and others, who
o.ild really n.ake Iho selection fo.
which tho President would be hell re
sponsible "
Explains cFaturcs.
The Commissioners left with the Presi
dent today written memoranda explain
ing various features of the legislation
they have recommended, Including tho
provision to transfer the appointment
of the Recorder or Deeds from tho
President to tho District Commission
crs. They did not have opportunity to
dlscu-i this provision with the President
verbally.
Explaining why the District appro
priation bills calls for $2,000,000 mom
than those of last year, the Commission
ers stated that the Incrcaso is due prin
cipally to tho provision made for th"
nurchase for nark numoes of thn nn
j tract on Connecticut avenue and thn
l'aticrson tract in tho northeast; th?
new building for the Eastern High
School ; the new Municipal Hospital, and
tho now reformatory.
Tho Commissioners were careful to
explain that they were not seeking to
get the President to use his Influence
In behalf of the various bills, but slmpK
to acquaint him with the reasons under
lying each, so that he might ht
thoroughly posted when the time camo
for him to opprovo them.
On tho calendars of the House tbl.t
Is designated as "District Day," but s
there wore no bills on the District cal-
ondar tho House turned its attention to
the Shackelford good roads bills.
Committee Meets Tomorrow.
The District Committee will meet to-
morrow to consider some of the many
bills now boforc It. It Is probable that
(Continued on Second Page.)
j
