Oregon Historical Soolutr
Coin) 207 Second St
Ashland
"Ashland Grows While LIthfa Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithia Springs
"The Carlsbad of America'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 191 G
NUMBER 70
Mayor States
Reasons for Veto
Mayor Johnson has filed the fol
lowing statement with the city re
corder, as required Ty the charter of
Ashland, after refusing to sign the
ordinance regarding pool halls and
theatres passed at last week's coun
cil meeting. Since the ordinance
was passed by a two-thirds vote it
goes over the mayor's veto:
Ashland, Ore., Jan. 21, 1916.
To the Members of the City Council
of the City of Ashland, Ore.
Gentlemen: I herewith return to
you, for your further consideration,
that certain ordinance, passed by the
council on the 18th day of January,
1916, entitled "An ordinance amend
ing ordinance number 588, as amend
ed by ordinance 592, and requiring
the payment of a license fee by pro
prietors of transient circuses, merry-go-rounds
and shows, and the repeal
ing of ordinances number 11, 66, 75,
89, 107, 131, 143, 144, 277, 288, 470
find 592, and all other ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict here
with," for the reason that, after due
and careful consideration of this or
dinance, I am constrained to with
hold my approval from the same, and
in doing so I respectfully call the
council's attention, to certain pro
visions of our charter, as well as the
general law pertaining to and bear-
?$$.$s.s$$$ssss$$$$
S , ?
5 EVEHV VOTER SHOULD REG- $
s ISTEIt AT OXCE. $
$ e
$ Every voter in the state of $
J Oregon must register before tho s
4 close of business, April 18, S
$ 1916, if he wishes to vote at $
J the primary election to be held $
May 19, 1916. S
? Failure to re-reglster before S
$ April 18 will preclude him from $
S voting at that election. S
P And since one of the first du- S
i ties of good citizenship Is to 5
$ vote, it behooves every Ash- ?
i lander to have his name appear $
3 In the new register. ?
$ Therefore, REGISTER NOW,
? and remember, no previous reg- ?
-? istratlons count.
?
Celebration Committe Starts Ball
Rolling For Greatest Event of Year
Circuit Breakers
Protect Pumps
R. A. Weimer, a representative of
the Baruch Electric Contracting Cor
poration of San Francisco, was in
Ashland Friday Inspectlm; the clrcn'l
breakers installed by the company
the Smith-Emery plant rtre. Tho
circuit breaker is a receir. invention
in the electrical world and was put
on the market about a er.r ago bv
lng upon the subject of licensing and i"ie Barnch peopIe- A c,r?oi" brea;iar
regulating
rooms.
The citizens' committee which has
the proposed resort dedication in
hand held Its first meeting last
Thursday afternoon. Those present
were Chairman Frohbach, E. V. Car
ter, Harry Hosier, A. C. Nlnlnger, C.
B. Wolf, C. A. Malone, A. II. Pracht,
Clarence Adams, Frank Jordan, D. D.
N'orris, Henry Enders and Monte
Briggs. The press committee reports
as follows:
The principal discussion was of
ways and means, logical dates for the
three-day event, suggestions as to
features, financial matters, etc. The
committee meets again this evening
to sett'e on the. best method of rais
ing $5,000 to start the celebration,
which is expected to cost approxi
mately $10,000. It will also take up
the matter of asking the commercial
clubs of western Oregon and Superior
California to yield the field for Ash
land's event. The celebration is
planned for July 4, 5 and 6.
exhibition and the midway features,
as both are planned on a large scale.
Ashland people have put $200,000
Into a resort project and the finance
committee anticipates no trouble In
securing $5,000 In advance to intro-
$ COUNTY I'KIXTIXO.
S Under the Oregon law
P county printing goes to
the $
the $
S newspaper having the largest
circulation in the county. Last $
S Thursday the matter of county
j i printing and the evidence of cir- $
!' cualtlon was submitted to the S
;? county court, and the Ashland J
v jiuings anu Ma
Scales That Cheat
Barred From State
Weights and measures specifica
tions that put Oregon on an equal
basis with any state In the Union,
and which will sweep out of existence
all inaccurate weighting and measur
ing apparatus and make It Impossible
i llt.l Vtl I I r'l 111! lillV mmt'trtt nn iiim....
m-tl - 'iiiWIWI Ul IUMMUIJ-
duce It to the public. Tho publicity 1 fn f tn V tC I erly constructed apparatus to be man-
committee has set its stake at 20.00 I.J ' , T'T f tUcM r ouSht into the state,
visitors, and the committee on In- I " MMon " 1 c were announced recently by Deputy
formation and accommodation, will ? T ",y T'1 WWe State Sealer of Wei.hts and mL!
designated as the county official
newspapers. Therefore, the
care for them
The decorations and illuminations
are expected to surpass anything yet
seen on the coast outside of the large
cities. Under the head of parades
and public gatherings will come the
annual soldiers' reunion, which Is to
billiard halls and pool
has been Installed on each of the mo
tors at the spring pumping plants
And Rota nntnmoHnallv
. it. ..... ""'"b
.... . u. uy u..nu, the cm.rent and stopp,ng the moto,s
as amended by a vote of the people ,f anythjng g(jes wrong thn protc(,N
i mi eiecuun neiu on luw om uay
While no committees have as yet the Pendleton Roundup Is under con-
been appointed, Chairman Frohbach sideratlon. A large barbecue event
has outlined a number that will cover for
be expected to see that the city and
ffa hnfala an.l lin..t M j
4 , . AoM T l tlFd n. 11 -..I...
v ..... .-t.,vt . imiin nu. jiihl u V
t complete official report of coun-
ty proceedings during the year ..$
1916, and will be the only r
newspaper In this end of the ? '
county printing the official - j
3 county news. I
li hun, (1,1.. .1.- iml
un f una )var; lie jMoposeui,
Shriners ceremonial, State Editorial
Association meeting, state society
meetings, the Scandinavian League's
meeting, encampments of militia, Boy
Scouts, etc.
A wild west show second only to
High School Annual
Staff Is Chosen
Tho staff fnr Tim T?ncni lino at
one of the days Is also being lIna. h " ., .. .. ...
the proposition quite comprehensive- planned. Some of the best bands In -ri, . . i , .
,. . . ... h"". .no BlUll UllUSlll COUS1SI8 OI
iu u Be;ureU anu some Fern Murpnyf editor-in-chief; Alice
Xiciiii-. UlllllCllOIlS.
!y, and others will be added later.
Heads of these will be named and
other citizens asked to serve on them.
Among the committees suggested are
the following: Finance, publicity,
Extra space for auto camping will
be provided for all comers and rest
rooms for women and children will
of October, 1908, provides (see Sec.
E, Article 7) that "the Common Coun
cil, by a two-thirds vote of the coun
cil, at any regular or adjourned meet
ing, shall have the power, within the
limits of the city of Ashland, to
license, tax and regulate public
amusements, skating rinks, bowling
alleys, billiard tables, pool tabl-'s,
etc." A noted text writer of la
books lays down the rule that lhe
keeping of public billiard or pool
tables for hire Is not a useful bus!
lng the delicate pumping apparatus.
Mr. Weimer during his short stay
became greatly enraptured with A3h-
land and especially Interested In the
springs project, which he says will
mean more to Ashland than even the
most optimistic foresee. One of his
statements was: "If a city In the
Old world had your park and canyoa
and springs, It would have become
famous two hundred years ago and
would have fifty thousand Inhabit
ants. . You people who live in A.h-
decoratlons, electrical illumination, be- adequate. Local business estab-
sprlngs dedication ceremony, parades ! lishments will be protected ' In the
and public gatherings, frontier ex
hibition, midway attractions, inform-
matter of concessions and all tran
sient places of entertainment, wheth-
ation and accommodations, bands and i er managed by local or foreign or-
free attractions, barbecue, auto ac- ganizations, will be asked to con-
achievement.
He returned to San Francisco Fri
day evening. A visit to Ashland
early In the summer will be eagerly
anticipated by Mr. Weimer.
Brakes Lock and
Car Turns Over
land are Indeed fnrtitnata Oimli m.
pess or employment, and is frequent- t
y ..... , , . . vlronment. for a home and such a
ljr attended by effects Injur.ous to , futur6 fts ,8 mogt assuredly ahead for
the public. Hence it Is a proper and your clty are unequalled ln the Unlt.
appropriate subject for regulation, I ed states
nnder the exercise of the police pow-1 The mobllIzation plant lnstalIel
er, under delegated authority to urn- by Smlth Emery & Co Mr Weimer
Dlcipal corporations. It will thus proclaimed to be an engineering
seen tnat tne city nas iun pow-jr, un
der Its charter, to regulate thesi pool
halls by the fixing of a license fee or
by other appropriate means. I par
ticularly call your attention t' the
wording of this charter, "License,
tax and regulate." The terms license
and tax in their primary sense would
mean merely a measure adopted for
the purpose of raising revenue to de
fray the expenses of the municipality.
The term regulate has a broader sig
nification, and would not oniy In
clude the licensing of a certain busi
ness, but It would also includ the
police regulation thereof. For In
stance, the licensing of a theatre is
purely a revenue measure, for the
reason that a theatre, as ordinarily
conducted, Is a clean place of amuse
ment, having Its educational features
being a place where the most refined
and cultured people of the commun
Ity, of all ages and sexes, may congre
gate, and a place where no question
able conduct or language Is permit
ted In fact, requiring no extra vigi
lance or expense to control it.
While the billiard halls and pool
rooms are so closely akin to the sa
loons that the small license that
might' be exacted of the theatre as a
commodations and traffic legislation,
rest rooms, concessions and police
regulations.
Some of the committees on pro
posed attractions are tentative and
will consider the matters put up to
tribute.
Reports will be issued by the com
mittee as fast as progress is made.
The public Is invited and urged to
co-operate. By the way, the commu
tes would like suggestions for nam-
them and report back to the head ing the frontier and midway features,
committee before definite decision Is j The committee will appreciate any
made or action taken. This Is partic- other Ideas the public may have to
ularly true of the proposed frontieroffer.
(Continued on Page Thirteen)
C.O.P.EmpIoyesFind
Pre-Historic Bull
Workmen excavating for the California-Oregon
Power Company's dam
at Copco have reported unearthing,
at a depth of about ninety feet below
the bed of the river in practically
solid rock, the skeleton of a prehis
toric bull.
The base of the head between
horns was eighteen inches, and the
tip of the horns measured five feet.
It is planned to send this relic of
About 4:30 last Saturday after
noon, Kale Shepherd, driving his big
Chalmers six, had a narrow escape
from' serious Injury when the car
skidded and turned over just this
side of tbe Billings corner on North
Main street. Mr. Shepherd had two
passengers, Mrs. Webb, who lives
four miles north of Central Point,
and Miss Ragsdale of Medford. By a
miracle none of the occupants were
injured beyond a shaking up.
Mr. Shepherd had just passed
Adrian Wolf In his car and was slow
ing down for the corner. The brakes
locked and the car skidded complete
ly around on the wet pavementand
rolled off into the ditch. The top
protected the occupants from more
serious injuries. Had the car slid
thirty feet farther it would have
plunged down Into the ravine under
the bridge. The car was smashed
considerably, but was hauled to a lo
cal garage and closer examination re
veals less serious damage than at
first seemed to be apparent.
"Peer Gynt" At
Vining Tuesday
A picture that everybody should
see "Peer Gynt" at the Vining
Theatre Tuesday night only. Cyril
Maude, star of the New York success,
"Grumpy," plays the lead. Nearly
everyone is familiar with the 1 Jauti-
ful Ibsen tale, and the Parauount
people have molded a picture feature
from the story which is something ex
traordinary. With Cyril Maude Is
associated a very strong cast of play
ers, with Myrtle Stedman, Paramount
star, playing opposite the great
Maude. If you want to see a picture
which is really one of the great ones,
see "Peer Gynt."
Vondersluls, assistant editor; Elbert
Farlow, business manager; Eunice
Crubb, artist; John Anderson, per
sonals; Helen Dlckerson, literary.
Tho publication is to bo an annual
this year, as the monthly which was
tried Inst year was not a success. It
will not be quite so large as the old
annuals because there are to be no 'lis choice of two or throe values for
advertisements. The business men!1'16 f'al,le weight are doomed. There
ures Buchtel. They become effective
1 in mediately.
Although the promulgation of sim
ilar specifications iu several states
made It necessary for the merchants
to make large expenditures for new
equipment, this has largely been
avoided by the deputy sealer by mak
ing the specifications retroactive
only as to Inaccurate equipment iu
use or held for sale. This will pre
vent the condemnation at tho pres
ent of much apparatus that is reason
ably satisfactory and will make tho
process of elimination gradual.
Equipment, however, to be hereafter
manufactured or brought Into tho
state must comply absolutely with
tho specifications.
The most Important or the specifi
cations are those governing the man
ufacture and use of computing
scales. Trovislon is made that all
computing scales must bo correct
both as to weight and value indica
tions, and that the charts muBt not
repeat the amo value In any given
column or row. Under them all
computing scales that give the user
Lieut. Shippen
4 Succeeds Collins
High School and
Militia Will Meet
Roof Falls As
Occupants Escape
At about 10:30 Saturday night,
fire, starting presumably from a de
fective flue, gained fast headway In
a house occupied by Joe Hosklns and
his son on upper Granite street and
cnmnlfiffilv cnnmimnd tho ilwelllncr
ancient times to the University of The father and gon barely had Ume
California.
Thomas G. Bradley, superintend
ent of the company, estimates that It
has been buried there at least ten
thousand years, owing to the forma
tion it was found ln.
A. J. Sigman of Boston will build
a $100,000 summer hotel at Port
Orfc-rd.
to get out of the house before the
roof caved ln and saved few belong
ings. By the time the fire truck ar
rived the house was lost. The house
was one which was moved from the
lands now in Lithia park and was set
on the hillside above the upper end
of the park. It was insured.
On Thursday evening of this week
the championship of the city will be
decided at the Ashland armory when
the. high school and Coast Artillery
Corps basketball teams meet In a
game, the announcement of which
has aroused more interest than any
outside game. The militia boys will
be playing on their own floor, but
what advantage they have will be off
set by the greater experience of the
school lads. A monster crowd prom
ises to be present and a great deal
of rivalry is being aroused over the
coming contest. One admission
charge of 25 cents will be made.
Seats may be reserved at Rose Bros.'
at no additional charge.
Lieut. Willis Shippen, U. S. A.,
will succeed Capt. R. W. Collins as
Inspector-Instructor of the Coast Ar
tillery Corps of Oregon. Lieut. Ship
pen will be In this city next week, ac
companying Capt. Collins on the Iat
ter's last trip to this district. Capt.
Collins will return to his command,
which is now stationed at San Diego.
The annual federal inspection of
the local company will take place on
March 6, according to orders issued
from the office of the adjutant-general.
Married Thrice
and Takes Fourth
B. F. McCrary of Siskiyou and
Mrs. Viola Rice of Eagle Point were
married at Jacksonville last Friday
and were the objects of congratula
tions from a number of friends. The
bride gave her age as 54 and the
groom 7S. Mrs. McCrary proudly
laid claim to the happy event as be
ing her third marriage, while the
groom went her one better, ho hav
ing been married three times before
this, "and was so fortunate that he
was glad to take another chance, by
jing."
decided that, as the advertising value
of The Rogue was not very much,
they would put up a lump sum to
help the publication. This Is much
better for the staff and should hasten
the publication a great deal. The advertisement-getting
has heretofore
been the hardest part of the work.
The staff are already at work con
cultlng other school papers and hunt
ing for material. The form of book
has not been decided on, but a form
similar to a common tablet, opening
at the top, Is looked on with favor.
Grants Pass Miner
Lost in Sncw
Hayden Dean, a Bixty-year-old
miner living on the Rogue river be
low Grants Pass, has been missing
from his cabin on Schan creek since
January 7. On that day he had start
ed for his cabin on Schan creek with
a park of provisions. As a big snow
storm was raging It is feared he per
ished. His pack was found on the
trail about a quarter of a mile from
his cabin by his partner, Mr. Carlton,
of Central Point. Searching parties
have found no other trace of Dean.
As there is ten feet of snow in that
section it Is feared that his body will
not be found until spring.
Tests Electrical
Part of System
is said to be a considerable number
of them In the stato. Becauso this
class of equipment is considered ab
solutely detrimental to the welfare
of customers these specifications
have been made retroactive. Com
puting scales must also In common
with all other kinds of scales be so
constructed that their zero adjust
ment can not be changed without tho
use of a tool.
Probably the most Important speci
fication with relation to scales gener
ally Is the one providing that "all
scales shall be of such construction '
that they are renRonnbly permanent
In their adjustment, and will repent
their weight Indications correctly.
and are not designed to or may not
be used to facilitate the perpetration
of fraud." This specification puts
tho ban on the family scale for com
mercial purposes. Separate specifi
cations have been provided for plat
form, counter-platform, counter-bal
ances, suspension and spring scales.
This specification is also retroactive.
Liquid measures under the specifi
cations must have their capacity legi
bly and permanently marked on tho
side, and they can only be mado In
gallons or multiples of gallons. Milk
and crenm bottles, and also Ice cream
forms, however, may be made in the
five and three pint bIzcs. The capac
ity of milk and cream bottles must
also be clearly and permanently
marked on their side. This specifica
tion, however, applies only to bottles
brought into the state after the spec
ifications were announced.
Linear measures under the specifi
cations must he mnde of material
that will remain reasonably perma
nent, and this will elimlnnto tho
Phone news items to the Tidings.
Taxpayers League
- Met Saturday
X meeting of the directors of the
County Taxpayers' League was held
Saturday at Medford and officers
elected and committees appointed to
carry on the work for the coming
year. A full report of the meeting
will appear in Thursday's Tidings.
Among those from Ashland who were
in attendance were. Benton Bowers,
V. O. N. Smith, C. B. Lamkln and
George Barron.
Artillery Team
Loses a Game
The local Coast Artillery Corps
basketball team Journeyed to Central
Point last Saturday evening and went
down to defeat at the hands of the
Central Point Athletic Club team in
a fast and rough game. The final
score was 22 to 16. The locals are
confident that they have the better
team and have challenged the Cen
tral Pointers for a return game,
William Grant of the Westlnghouse
Electrical Company Is spending sev
eral days In the city, inspecting the I'ommon cloth tape measure, and also
electrical equipment of the springs
system and testing It out for possible
defects. Ho is also conducting a
series of tests with the aid of C. A.
Bell, engineer In charge, for the pur
pose or securing tne nignest en i
ciency from the apparatus.
the soft wood yard stick. Tho
specifications also cover berry and
apple boxes, and all automatic meas
uring devices.
Civic Club Prints
1916 Year Book
County Court for
Kome Industries
A single projectile from a 15-Inch
naval. gun weighs 1950 pounds.
New South Wales devotes 5,188,
000 acres to wheat growing.
Reports In Paisley say that the
Western Pacific plans a feeder Into
this section of Oregon.
Twohy Bros, may get orderg to
build 1000 box cars at their Portland
shops.
Every time a 15-inch gun Is fired
a hale of cotton weighing 600 pounds
Is blown away.
The Civic Improvement Club has
had printed a Year Book for 1916 in
a dainty and attractive booklet form,
The booklet contains the list of of
ficers, order of tho meetings, list of
members, programs for every meet
ing of the year and much other inter
esting material. The booklet will be
distributed at the meeting of the club
tomorrow afternoon at the city
library and all members are urged to
be present to get their year book.
So many horses have been com
mandeered In Germany lhat oxen are
being used for plowing.
On the averake farm a flock of 100
to 150 hens is more easily made pro
fitable than one of a thousand.
Home Industries were given anoth
er boost and the "trade at home"
movement another impetus when tho
county court of Jackson county
passed the following resolution after
dlscusalug purchase of material for
county use for this year:
"Believing home Industries that
are also taxpayers and supporting
large payrolls should be encouraged,
it Is hereby ordered that all county
supplies, necessary for the use of
county officials be purchased of tho
home Industries of Jackson county,
excepting only such articles as are
not obtainable here in the county.
"F. L. TOU VELLE,
"County Judge.
"W. C. LEEVER,
"County Commissioner."
A rank growth of weeds becomes
an asset when plowed under before
they make seed.
