AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR. CALLS GILL AND ERICKSON "GOLD BRICKS"-LETTER ON PAGE 0
Other Pndhsnrc# ©G
tl<£ SEkk omi Pa|© 4
And personal stories of ex
periences by survivors who went
over the mountainside at Corea
with the wrecked coaches * appear
on page 5.
TONS OF SNOW COVER VICTIMS
A TALK WITH YOU, MR. BUSINESS MAN
MR. BL'SINKSS MAN, The Star wants
you to go to the mass meeting to be
held Tuesday at 12:30, at the American
theatre, Second and Seneca, and help voice a
protest against the preferential rates main
tained by southern railroad lines which arc
keeping tourists away from Seattle and the
Northwest.
This fight for fair and equal Pacific
Coast railroad rates, if it succeeds, will be
one of the biggest imaginable factors in
bringing business to Seattle.
Tourists spend millions of dollars every
year in Los Angeles.
The allied southern railroad lines —
Southern and I nion Pacific, and the 0.-lf 7 .
& V.—arc conspiring to ( heat Seattle out
of the money spent by these coast visitors.
The interstate commerce commission has
been asked to smash this unfair rate frame
up. YOl' can help if you come to the mass
meeting I uesday. OL can throw YOUR
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 18 SKATTLK. WASH , MONDAY. JANUARY 24. 1916 O^S-CEKT —»,
influcncc into the scales by unifiin a
city-wide protest to the government at
Washington against this discrimination.
I,et's get back to the old Seattle spirit
that rebuilt Seattle after the great fire;
the spirit that built our own railroad
when the Xorthern Pacific had selected
Tacoma as its coast terminus; the spirit
which has animated every step of prog
ress which has built Seattle into a great
city!
Behind the Seattle spirit has been the
ability of our people to FKJH I to fight
for whatever has been best for the city's
good. Seattle has prospered and thrived
because it has had virile and red-blooded
fighters. //nd now the time has come for
these men to again gird on their armor of
battle.
In the railroad rate preferential, Seattle
faces a serious menace to her future growth.
Above. a view of the wrecked day coach which, with dining car, waa snapped off tha Craat Northern train Saturday morning naar
Corea. Waah.. and ewept 300 faat down tha mountalnelde by an avalanche. Tha track w;r,paawi up the mountain at thie point. The ear*
dropped from the upper track to the lower. The picture ahowa reacuera clearing away the enow to get at thoae in the car. The dotted line
ehowe how the car waa carried down the elope. The picture below ahowa part of the train that atayed on the level above, with tha
Bleeping car hanging over the brink
RESCUERS DYNAMITE SLIDE
DEDRIS IN SEARCH FOR DEAD
Victims of the Corea snowsHde disaster «.till lie buried in i
the snow and rock, despite 4S hours of rescue work carried
on by me»rc than 300 workers.
Three persons are known to he missing and there may
he more.
There are f"ttr known dead victims.
I ilit injured passengers of the wrecked (ireat Northern
train No. 25 are in Kverett hospitals.
There have been 21 * -parate slides between Leavenworth
and the east mouth of the Horseshoe tunnel alone. The track
in places is buried to a depth of fO feet
Again and tfreat masses of snow, dirt and rocki
When occasions like this arose in the past,
our fighting men got mad—fighting mad.
And once they started in they never quit till
the job was done.
The time has come to get mad once more.
1 he Star has interviewed leading business
men of the city. Their opinion is unani
mous. The preferential rate is a handicap
t<» Seattle. IT MUST BE KNOCKED
OUT.
If a man stuck a gun in your fare. Mr.
Business Man, and took away your uatrh
and your wallet, you'd be likely to set in
dignant. wouldn't you?
Yet the railroads with which the ().-lf.
R. & A . is affiliated, Mr. Business Man,
have a gun stuck in your face 24 hours in
every day, and 365 days in every year. They
are robbing Seattle and the Northwest of
eastern people ivho ought to be coming here
as well as to southern Callforma. Our clim
ate, our scenery, our city, has any southern
\TI6HT
JN edition!
i have torn loose from the mountain* and crashed down over
the rails near the scene of the disaster.
Workmen started blasting Monday in the pile of dirt
and rock that swept the two coaches before it to the bottom
iof the gulch. They expect to find other bodies.
But in some places the tons of snow and earth lcavo
no expectation of finding \ictims until weeks of warm weather
will have melted the snow.
The hillside swept by the slide Saturday is blanketed by
snow and ice, in places -10 feet deep, and in no place It*-4
than rifjht feet deep.
I'p, more than 200 feet, from the little pile of twisted
(Continued on page 5.)
California city beaten forty ways from Sun-
Hay. Every one knows that. Yet the south
ern railroads are deliberately making a
roundtrip from the east which icon Id in
clude the Northwest as expensive as pos
sible. compared to the southern way. They
are hogging the tourist business for Califor
nia. They are robbing YOl', Mr. Business
Man, and YOU are complacently standing
for it.
Cio to the Tuesday mass meeting. Chair
man Reynolds of the state public scrvicc
commission will be the chief speaker. He
will explain the situation to you from the
viewpoint of an expert. Mayor (fill will
speak. So will 1. D. Rockwell of the hotel
men's association, and other able men.
Just go—that's all. That is the way you
can best help in this fight.
(i(), AND SKK TO IT THAT ALL
YOUR I RIF.NDS (iO WITH YOU.
