THE BAR-BE . DAI LY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 2G5.
HAKllE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1910.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
BOMB THROWN SB
m w aeroplane di
aMi r0 PMA A I"""1 of itt'rtit in the ollicial c
I I ll l P rt rIMIl ('""t of tlri rMi(1 U tlla "tab-mint thai
Vjl 1 LV V Lli Ll l vltf it wa made ly an aeroplane. Hereto
' ' fore Ccrmuny lia relied principally or
BY. AEROPLANE
of tlie Thame. It include part of tb
union, but the wording of tho
ement indicate tliat the
aeroplane did not reach tlie city.
that
German Official Report Says
Zeppelin for aerial attack on England
Of lute, however, there lina been much
diaeiiNHion in England of a now type of
erman aeroplane, the Folker, which liui
been laid to excel the aircraft' of tho
allien.
The raid come after an interval .of
several month during which England
Tkof Qfotinn iinrl fWlcs " !' Wen reported olllcially
vw.v v. H immune from such attack. The lust
Were Hit While Great I,rev'ou occurrence of thin nature wa
' . on October "13, when 55 peraon were
Britain Savs Merely mat r""' -nan wounded oy a .eppenn
" I attack on London.
One Ferson Was Killed,
and Six Were Wounded
GERMANS DO NOT
MENTION SECOND RAID
Only Scouting Expeditions.
London, Jan. 2-1. The Time believe
that Sunday' aerophuie raid were in
the nature of scout in i exiieidtiona. "It
ha been noticed on previous occasion,'
say the Time, "that Zeppelin raid
often have been preceded by aeroplane
presumably aiming at an mvc
igation of protective measure ana
method in the coast area."
British Say That the Second AUSTRIA'S EMPEROR
Attack Was Made on East IS AGAIN VERY SICK
t i -u tr t. rn,j.
UOast 01 JVeia dim I'lOHFrancis Joseph'i Condition Is Said to Be
There Were NO Casualties Causing Great Alarm All Recep
tions and Audience Canceled.
Pari, Jan. 24. Press dispatches from
Rome any that considerable anxiety is
felt in Vienna in consequence of the ill
ness of Emperor Francis Joseph, whose
chronic bronchitis ha assumed an acute
form. They add that he is confined to
the bed, that all eourt reception and
audiences have been suspended and that
he is not even receiving the military au
thorities. Me is being nursed by Arch
duchess Zita, wife of the heir to the
throne, according to the same dispatches.
Other War Operations
Announced
Dover, the great English channel port
through which the main lint of commu
nication between Great Britain and
France runs, was raided by a German na
val aeroplane Saturday night, the Ger
man admiralty announced to-day. This
raid is the same one announced from Lon
don yesterday as having been made on
ADMITTED BY TURKS.
the east coast of Kent.
The German statement reports that ihat They Sank the Persia, Both Ger
bombs were dropped from the machine many and Austria Having Denied It.
.. l , J . 1 J 1. - I
On Uie Siauon Darraca unu mc uuvuvi T-nn.lon -Tn 2iAn Amsterdam Hi..
Dover. The British account gave the patch to the Exchange Telegraph com
casualties in this raid as one killed and pany said
. . . . ...... I " A..-,1;.,,t tn J!.,ri;.. v.,-f 4l.
six wounaea. tonaon later reported a '" -" .i""
second attack In the same locality by two bHgh a stat(.ment to the effwt that
seaplanes but no mention of this was con- ft Turkish submarine sank the steamer
tained in to-day's announcement from 1'ersia.
Berlin, I 1 tie report alleges that similar state
mcnts are being published by the tier
French Aeroplanes Bombarded Monastir. man and Austrian- admiralties, it being
Th. KnwAmW nf Mnna.Hr in hoped by the central powers that such
I a. unfit rarwin will a't t iml f It a I'araia
southwestern aeroia oy a squaaron or ; question."
French aeroplanes yesterday is reported This dispatch has not been confirmed
by the Havas correspondent at Saloniki from other sources,
in a dispatch received at Paris. Consid- . Both the German and Austro-Hunga-
... . ., . . . . rmn governments have announced that
erable damage is said to have been done the Pninsula ,nd Oriental steamer Per-
to ammunition depots, the quarters of Uja was not sunk by -one of their, sub
INCOME TAX
LAW UPHELD
The United States Supreme
Court Declares Meas
ure Constitutional
DECISION FOLLOWS
LONG LITIGATION
Several Cases Were Started
in Various Parts of
the Country
the general staff and the railroad station
The correspondent also reports that the
Italian expeditionary force in Albania is
soon to be attacked. The Bulgarians are
reported to be advancing toward Avlona,
which is held by the Italians. In the in
tenor of the Balkans the disarming of
the Montenegrin soldiers continues.
A news agency dispatch from Athens,
stating that negotiations for a loan by
the entente powers to Greece are nearing
a favorable conclusion, seems to indicate
that any differences which may have
arisen between Greece and the entente
have been smoothed over.
The German war office report announces
the capture of an advanced position north
of Arras, and 71 prisoners, following sue
cessful mining operations. The report
further states that, in the .Argonne, the
Germans occupied a section of trench
after a short engagement with hand gren
ades.
A British official report tells of mining
activity at Marcourt, Hultuch and Gi
venchy and the successful bombardment
of hostile works at Monchy and Freling
hien.
Antivari and Dulcigno, on the Adriatic
coast of Montenegro, have fallen into the
hands of the Austrian, which leaves to
King Nicholas only a few miles of front
on the sea and gives to the Austrians
command of the coast from the Gulf of
Triest virtually to the Albanian frontier,
TWO RAIDS MADE
ON COAST OF KENT
Official British Announcement Say that
the Casualties are One Dead
' and Six Injured.
London, Jan. 24. The coast of Kent
was twice raided by hostile aeroplane
and seaplane yesterday, the first at
tack causing ono death and injury of
six persons, and the second resulting in
no casualties.
An ollicial account of the first raid
was as follows:
"The war office announced that, tak
ing advantage of the bright moonlight,
a hostile aeroplane visited the coast
of Kent, at 1 o'clock- this morning. Aft
w dropping nine bombs in rapid succes
sion it made off to seaward.
"So naval or military damage wa
done, but there wa some damage to
private property. Incendiary boml
caused fires which were extinguished bv
2 a. m.
"Tim following casualties oorurred;
One man killed; two men, one woman
and three children slightly injured.'
marines, and investigation by the dip
lomatic representatives of the United
States abroad have failed to review the
real cause of the disaster.
The Persia was sunk off the island of
Crete Dec. 30 with a loss of 119 pas
sengers. The vessel went down within
five minutes after a terrible explosion
forward.- Nobody on board claimed to
have seen a submarine.
GERMANS IN CONSTANTINOPLE.
There are Now 50,000 German Troops to
Back Up the Turks.
London, Jan. 24. Fifty thousand Ger
man troops have arrived at Constntino-
pic, according to Saloniki dispatches,
British correspondents express the view
that the object of this army is not an
expedition against Egypt, but to sup
port the authority of tho Turkish war
minister,' Enver Pasha.
Greek reports say that tho Turk re
cently have been restive under tlie rule
of Enver Pasha, and seriou plots againsv
him have bcn discovered, these being
suppressed ruthlessly.
On a single night recently, say
one correspondent, "twenty-one Turkish
officers suspected of disaffection w.re
dropped into the Bosphoron with stones
around their necks."
SHIP FOUNDERED,
BUT ALL WERE SAVED
Britisli Freight Steamer Pollentia Went
Down 700 Miles 09 Cape Race,
According to Wireless
Message.
Halifax. X. S., Jan. 24. The British
freight steamer Pollentia which has been
reported in distress about 7K miles off
.ape Race foundered last night, accord
ing to a wireless message received here.
AH on board were rescued.
The captain and crew of the Pollentia
were saved by boats from the Giuseppi
erdi and taken aboard that steamer.
Nearly a week ago the Pollentia
prang a leak. As the pumps were irn-
ble to control the inrush of water, wire-
lees' calls for assistance were Hashed
broadcast. Several steamer rcsioiidod
to the call and for four days the Giusep
pi Verdi had been standing by. At no
ime was there any hope of saving the
'ollentia, but attempts to take tf the
crew were deferred because of the gale
whieli Idew ini'tYsantlv, piling up tre
mendous seas.
LLOYD BINGHAM'S BODY BACK.
Member of Ford Peace Party Died on
Eastward Trip.
New York', Jan. 24. The steamer
Kristianiafiord. bavin? on hoard Hi
The war oflice announced tne second ; body of IJovd Bingham, a member of
raid a follow: Henry Ford" peace party who died
n..M ;.. tk a.;.. i ...!. .i it . -
. T-u inr mmiM iirr in- arrival at l iirir-tiania,
this morninz. anchored at Quarantine ni..!,f
Washington, D. C Jan. 24. The
United Stute supreme court to-day up
held the constitutionality of the income
tax law.
Five separate suits to test the consti
tutionality of the new income tax were
brought in the federal courts throughout
the country soon lifter the law became
effective and all found their way to tne
supreme eourt of the L nited State soon
after.
For nearly M years the tight for and
against a federal income tax ha hcen
somewhere in the courts, the income
tax imposed during the Civil war and
the years immediately following were
not attacked with the seriousness ot lat
er cases. It was not until the Lleveiana
administration placed an income tax in
the Wilson tariff act that the tight be
came serious.
The contest over the validity of the
tax in 18!4 and lHliS before the supreme
court wa one of the most bitter ever
fought out before that court. One of the
lawyers, James C. Carter, warned the
court against'setting up it judgment to
liwart the will of CO.lMXl.fMKl people. Jo
seph II. Choate, opposing, called upon the
court to exercise it judicial power re
gardless of any popular or populistie
ropaganda.
At first the court decided that the tax
was unconstitutional as to rents from
land because it was a direct tax not ap
portioned according to population, and it
was unconstitutional as to interest on
municipal bonds. Only eight ju'dges par
ticipated and they were evenly divided as
to the validity of other feature of the
law. A rehearing Mas granted and Jus
tice Jackson, then dying, took his place
on the bench to listen to the last argu
ment in his lifetime. Justice Jackson I
voted to sustain the law. Justice Harlan
created a sensation by announcing from
the bench that anotlier justice had
changed his mind over night on the ques
tion, and the entire tax, both as to real
ty and as to income from personality
was set aside on the ground that it wa
a direct tax and not apportioned accord
ing to population, as was required by the
constitution of direct taxes.
An agitation for an amendment to the
constitution then began. It came to
nothing until Pres. Taft recommended
the enactment of an excise tax on cor
poration to be measured by their in
come and an amendment to the constitu
tion to permit the levying of an income
tax on all income. The amendment wag
submitted to the states at once and was
proclaimed a the 16th amendment to the
constitution on March I, 1013.
It provided:
"The Congres.'shall have power to lay
and collect taxes on Incomes from what
ever source derived without apportion
ment among the several states and with
out regard to any census or enumeration."
Congress availed itself of the first op
portunity to exercise the new power by
incorporating into the tariff act which
became effective Oct. 3, 1913, the present
income' tax. Five suits, all challenging
the validity of certain features of the
tax were:
Frank R. ISrushaber, stockholder of the
Union Pacific Railroad Co., seeking in
the New York federal courts, to enjoin
the company from paying the tax.
John K Dodge and Horace h. Dodge,
manufacturers, of Detroit. Mich., in the
Michigan federal courts, to enjoin the
internal revenue collector from collecting
the tax, largely on the ground that
discriminated against copartnerships in
favor of corporations.
John R. Stanton, stockholder of the
Baltic Mining Co., in the Massachusetts
federal courts, to enjoin the company
and other from paying the tax, largely
because of the a per cent annual deduc
tion from income allowed mining com
panies for ore depletion.
1 vee Realty to., in the ,pw lork fed
eral court, to enjoin the collector of in-
ernal revenue.
Edwin Thome, in the New Y'ork fed
eral court, to enjoin the collector, large
y on the ground that the additional or
urtax imposed on income over f20,000
was unconstitutional.
In each instance the lower court held
the tax constitutional, and the case was
rought to the supreme court on appeal.
1 he cases were advanced tor early hear
ing and were submitted to the court for
decision on Oct. 13, 1015, 20 years after
the first great income tax decisions.
DIED CURSING AMERICANS.
Duran Brothers Were Executed in Ceme
tery at Juarts.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 24. Bernardo and
Federieo Durun, - the Mexican cattle
thieve, condemned to die bv the Carran-
za authorities for the killing of Bert
Akers at Nan I.orep.-.-.Q, a few mile below
the international boundary, Friday, were
executed at daylight in the cemetry at
Juarez yesterday, 1 lie body f Akera
wa interred here late yesterday.
The Duran brother died cursing
Americans. Bernardo appealed for mcr
nv fin hehiilf of Ilia hvuMwr. Federieo.
"It i unjust to kill two of ii for one
American," he said. "It t giving two
eve for one tooth., I am willing to die,
htrause I killed the gringo, but my
brother ought to be allowed to live.
The liodies of both Mexican were
buried immediately, but that of Bernar
do, who confessed to having fired the
shot that killed Akers, wa exhumed to
satisfy a doubt concerning the identity
of the slaver.
Douglas Downs, an American, who was
with Aker seeking stolen cow, and who
escaped the bullets of Mexicans, diytared
Saturday night after seeing Bernardo
Duran, that the prisoner wa not the
man who shot Aker. Downs wa at the
Juarez cemetery when the face of the
exhumed man wa exposed late yester
day and admitted that he had been mis
taken Saturday night.
1 ho certification hv American officials,
who were with Down that the slaver
tad been dulv executed served last night
to calm a feeling at Ysleta, where Aker
and Downs lived. Authorities had feared
that the feeling of resentment in Ysleta
might result iu trouble.
Three Mexican previously arrested in
connection with cattle stealing at Y'sleta
were removed to jail in El Paso for pro-
tcction.
The execution wa attended by 50
Anie.rhans, of whom a number were
women.
A BOSTON PLAYHOUSE DAMAGED.
STORMS STRIKE
PACIFIC COAST
While a Sudden Cold . Spell
Grips Rocky Moun
tain Region
BRITISH COLUMBIA HAS
SEVERE WEATHER
Alaska, Too, Is Cold, Eagle
Reporting 68 Be
low Zero
Kan Francisco. Cal., Jan. 24. Flood
and bad weather condition prevail to
day throughout the v Pacific coast sec
tion, seriously impeding railroad traffic.
Heavy snowfalls, landslide and wasn-
out are obstruction with which train
men are contending.
A sudden cold snap gripped the north
west last night. At Great Falls, Mont.
the temperature dropped from 30 above
to four below rero in thirty minute.
British Columbia report unusually com
weather and heavy snow. Exceedinly
low temperatures are also reported in
the Interior of Alaska, being 08 below
at Eagle.
Three hundred men, working under the
direction of officials of the Great North
ern railroad, are digging into the huge
pile of snow and debris to-day at the
39 PINTS WHISKEY
SEIZED IN RAID
Along with It tho Officers Got Three 6ar
rels of Lighter Stuff and Arrested
Mrs. Corilano Granai of
Granite Street.
Beer in bottles, beer in barrel and
lieer in pitchers, with whiskey in pints
and case a a runner-up in the finals,
wero the fruit of a raid at 27 Granite
street Saturday evening when tho police
arrested Mr. Corilano Granaf of that
address and put her under bail of $550,
pending her answer to a charge of selling
illegally. This morning Air, urania ap
pcared in court with her attorney,
Ward Carver, and asked for a continu
ante until Tuesday afternoon, which tl
magistrate. II. V . Scott, was disposed 10
crant. The woman s bail was admittcil
for the continuance.
Iroquois beer in bottle constituted one
barrel of the seizure, renway ale in not
tie another barrel. The third 'drum to
be transferred to police headquarter was
a keg of Hie'lan' Spring ale. One case of
whiskey containing 24 pint ana a sec
ond case holding 15 pint bottles were
also seized. The raid wa made on
complaint made to Grand Juror William
Wishart and tlie premises were searcneu
by Chief Sinclair, Officer Harry Gamble
and Officer John W. IJineen. 11 is sai(
that Mrs. Granai has a charge of violat
ing the law in a manner similar to that
of the present allegation in county court,
DIED AT AGE OF 95.
JURY FAILED
AFTER 16 HOURS
Could Not Agree in the Har
vard Registration
Case
Tremont Theatre Had $75,000 Fire, "Due
to Crossed Wires.
Boston, Jan. 24. Tho Tremont the
atre, the oldest playhouse in tho city,
taging legitimate productions, was dam-
god by lire yesterday. 'Ever) thing be
ween the back wll, of the stage and
the first balcony was destroyed. The
loss is estimated at 175,000, of which
25,000 was on tiift properties of a the
atrical company. Crossed wires in or
ear the electrical switchboard in the
rear of the stage are believed to have
started the fire. I
The flames swept the, entire stage !
pace and the confined heat " burst
trough the tin roof with an explosion
mt threw debri about dangerously,
One large section of the roof toppled
down the stage shaft, over the heads of
several firemen, but was caught among
the curtain and scene shifting appara
tus, and lodged there long enough to
allow the escape of those below.
Swelling beyond the bound of the
stage, the flame ran across the orchestra
pit, along the triple row of boxes and
up to the balcony , rail. The expensive
box fitting were ruined by fire a&d
water, the latter thrown in streams
from fiose held by firemen seated in
balcony chair. v,
John B. Schoffcl, proprietor and man
ager of the theatre, said that the house
probably would be closed for seWral
months. It had been open almost con
tinuously, except for Bummer closings,
since 1885. Only three theatre of any
class in the city antedate th burned
playhouse, the Boston, Park and How
ard Athenaeum.
Of the total loss about $50,000 rep
resents the damage to the theatre build
ing. The "Paddy Long Legs" company
which is directed by" Klaw and fcrlan
tjer, valued its properties at about $25,-
000.
Mrs. Hannah Nichols Was Perhaps the
Oldest Person in Williamstown.
Mrs. Hannah Nichols, mother of the
ate Constable SL B. Nichols of Barre
and probably the oldest person in Wil
lamstown, died at the home of her son
Frank H. Nichols, in that village Satur
day night at 10 o'clock. Mrs. Nichol
pot where two car of a west bound .was 05 years old last October and unti
einress were honed rv an avaiancne sue hb buhki-h huh unum, bnu
Saturday in the hope of recovering the few days ago, she had enjoyed almost
hndiM of four nassemrer still in the perfect health. Surviving relatives are
ruins. The snow in soma places along Mrs. Mary Carpenter of Barre, a daugh
the railroad line is 00 feet deep. ter. and four sons, Frank H. Nichols
with whom she had long made her home,
John Nichols of South Hiarre, Henry Nich
FUNERAL HELD AT COURTHOUSE ols of Perry, la., and Charles Nichols of
East Hampton, Mass. Mrs. R. C. Bugbee,
And Many People Paid Their Respects to Mrs. K. Q. McDonnell and Miss Sue Nich
John H. Senter. ol f this city are granddaughters ot the
I Hakah unl
Masonic services were held yesterday : Mr. vieWa Wn Hannah Prfint-
aftcrnoon at 2 o'clock in the Washington well in Smth BarTe (t . 14f IN20; jer
county courthouse in Montpeher for John t M& j po Boutwell, being
tr o a , t J..,u .........J .....I.. I . .... ...
ii. wilier, iioe ueoni wvu.u.o. BUUuru- 8mon!r tilp earlr settlers Of that Village,
ly Thursday evening, the services being In g)e wag marrje,i to Peter Nich
in charge of Aurora lodge and the re- , for many years a well known man in
niams were escorted by tne Anignis i Hlirrl rown ftn(1 Williamstown. who
leniplars. Collin Blakely ofhciated as pag(M(j away jn ,884- Urs xichols pos-
worshipful, master and he was assisted
bv Master Arthur L. Colby. A male
quartet, composed of Frederic Edwards,
George Shannon, Frank Pitkin and Wil
liam S. Smith, sang one selection. ,
The court room wa not large enough
to allow all those who wished to pay
sessed to a marked degree the faculties
of her youth and until her last brief ill
ncss she was uncommonly vigorous.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Wednesday afternoon, at 1 :30
o'clock. Rev. John Irons, pastor of the
ilhamstown Congregational church,
BOSTON HOTEL MAN
DIED SUDDENLY
SEIZED GAMBLING MACHINES.
eat rot of Kent earlv
too ln-ti!e seaplanes made a second at
tek upon the tine locality shortly
after nn.
"After coming under a heavy fire the
raidVrs disappeared, pursued by our na
tal h1 military mn hine.
Seven person ho wer inniiect.-d
with the Ford party returned on tbe
Kristianiafjord. Ther ere Lawrem-e
Rutland Officers Found Many Men Gath
ered About Them,
Rutland. Jan. 24. Deputy Sheriff
Pascal Kicci and David A. Barker, to
gether with State' Attorney C. V. Pou
lin, raided the store at 184 West street
in the Morgan block last night at H
o'clock, where they found between 35 and
40 Italians gathered. The offi.-ials found
two "rambling machine, which were re
moved and taken to the rounty court
house. The proprietor. Christiano Fucci,
was arreted and placed in the lorkup at
the city hall. He will be arraigned be
fore Jii'lge F. (. Sniniierton on a charge
of having the gambling machine in his
pnrfon.
The raid was made by virtue of a wsr
rant isftied ome days ngtt by State's At-
TI.- ..?.. -.! .. .1 1 ' . i l i.i ,-
, ... . ... ... , ru.-.ru IJW MNIIIXCf-, Jl'.l j I. ItT l j! 7trr I Hilt I, WCnil rPin.
n rauttie nave teea reported.
1. i. r. . I. ,1 4-1 I Vv, '.I- I . ... . . .
inn, i :u.iip .v. torney rotinn. no na received numer
V mcr and Robert dishing. firt cabin jous complaint of peron fre!enting
passengers, and S. Higging. S. Iftll andjthe tlre. claiming that ira-hinr-n were
Amos Whipple Passed Away of Heart
Disease at Copley Square Hotel,
of Which He Was Owner.
Boston, Jan. 24. Amos Whipple, one
of the best known hotel proprietor of
Now Fngland, died suddenly at the t op
ley Square hotel, of which he was owner,
heart disease being the cause. Mr. V hip
pie, who was 50 year old, had been
connected with local hotel more than
a score of years. He was a brother of
Sherman L. Whipple, a Boston lawyer.
OPENED WITHOUT CEREMONY.
Burlington's New Union Station Cost
$150,000.
Burlington, Jan 24. Burlington's new
$150,000 union passenger station, which
will be jointly operated by the Central
Vermont and Rutland railroads, was
formally opened yesterday. The struc
ture has been nearly a year in building.
An immense crowd was on hand yester
day morning to witness the arrival of the
first train. During the afternoon and
evening large number inspected the
handsome appointment of the finest
rtructure of it kind in northern New
England.
The event wa not attended bv speech
making or other public ceremonies, which
were omitted because it was Sunday.
The inspection ended with a meal at the I
new restaurant, which is finished in Ver
mont marble.
their last respect to the deceased to en- ,vi) lie tIlfl officiating clergyman and the
ter ana norae were iorcea iu sianu ui we rPnia,ng w,n be brought to JJarre for in
front and rear corridor. terment in the family lot at Elmwood
The bearers were lewia v. Moody. A- cemetery.
.1. CMiiiey, iv. ji. lAiru, a. a. pieooiiis.
Lynn Ii. Krooks and rrank: 11. lracy, ana MONTPELIER VETEHAN DEAD.
the funeral director was Col. 0. 1). Uark.
Court officer, including. Deputy Sheriff Benjamin T. Magoon Served in New York
1 1 a C- :iL ir 1 t l a 1 T 1 &
ia.ru. a. r, . . ou , i.c.r. Regiment During Civil War.
Law son and Arthur Emery, acted as ush-1
In.., W
ers. iseniamm jacnaon -uagoon. a native
Members of the Washington County of Malone, N. Y., and until the last
Bar association assembled in the' grand year a resident of Ellensburg Junction,
jury room at 1:45 o'clock and attended IN. 1., and a Civil war veteran died Sun
the services in a body and with them sat day morning at 7 o'clock in Montpel
Supreme Court Justice John A. Watson, ier at the home of his daughter, Mrs,
John W. Gordon of Barre, president of Alice Webb, with whom he resided, 18
the ermont Iter association, and Charles I Harrison avenue,
D. Watson of St. Albans, past president I The deceased wa born May 3, 1830,
of the state association. in Malone, N. Y., but when a young
Mayor Boutwell and tlie other mem- man settled in EUensburg. He enlisted
bers of the city council attended and as a private in Co. A, 7!'tli New York
every city department wa represented, regiment, under C aptain Isaac Hall, Aug.
The remain were placed in the chapel 7, 1S03, and was mustered eut May lOf
ATTORNEY CHARGED
, WITH FALSIFICATION
In Certifying Harvard Sen
ior as "Voter in Last
State Election
Cambriilge, Muss., Jan, '"A disagree
ment was, reported J." v the jury
which dellberateff . .'riday and
Saturday intV .rbert B. Har
ris, an aft ' 4 .as indicted on the
charge , f a false outh and in
falft ' jing to allow Wendell
Town , a Harvard senior, t,o vote hero
in the last state election. The case was
the first of the series to be heard in con
nection with alleged fraudulent registra
tion by Harvard students. ,
DIED WHILE AT CHURCH.
Thomas R. Fiddock of Berlin Was at St.
Augustine's in Montpelier,'
Thomas R. Fiddock of Berlin died sud
denly Sunday morning in the vestibule
of St. Augustine' Catholic church at)
Montpelier while attending second mass.
He had been a sufferer for several sev
eral year with heart trouble and death
wag due to heart failure. .
The deceased was born in Cornwall,
England, but with hi parents" emigrated '
to Canada, when he was eight years of
age, and came to the United State
when about 24 years old... He resided
at different times in Richmond, Bolton,
Huntington and other towns on the
west side of the state, being all of hia
lie in farming or lumbering. He moved,
to Berlin four years ago to .reside with
his sons.
He was born Jan. 2(1, 1840, and would
have been 70 years old had he lived un-
il 'Wednesday. He was married July
31. I860, in Richmond to Mary Whalen,
nd. four children were born to them.
three of whom with the wife survive a
follows: John JL, and William J. Fid
dock, with whom he rusided and Anna,
M. Fiddock of Burlington. Mrs. Katlier-
ine M. Teachout died 17 year ago. Other
relatives are three grandchildren, a .
brother, Richard R. Fiddock, of Water-
burv : and four sisters, Mrs. Anna Town
of Waterbury, Mrs. George Pringle of
Montreal, Mrs. W. 'B. Craven of liur-
ngton, Mrs. Amelia McCiien of Bos
ton. A fifth sister, Mrs. Annie Shattuck,
ed two years ago in Burlington.
Hie remains are to be taken to-mor
row to Richmond, where tne lunerai
ill be held at 10:30 o'clock with bur
in the Catholic cemetery in that
own.
FUNERAL AT PLAINFIELD.
vault at Green Mount cemetery to await
interment in the spring.
, MAY ISSUE $160,000 STOCK
Public Electric Light Co. of St. Albans
So Authorized. .
1864, because of pounds received in ac
tion.
Hi wife, Harriet, died 17 years ago
and the surviving relatives are three
son, Merritt B., of Whitewater, Wis,
Ernest P. Colburn of Manchester, N. H.,
William R. Magoon, Kllensburg, and
three daughters, Lucy Fulton of Milton
91 The Vermont Junction. Mrft: Laura Chesbrough of
Rrattlehoro. ' Jan
puhlic service commission has given the Sendstone, Minn., and Mr. Webb of
Pnh it Kleef.r r I. ir it eomnanv. which Montpelier. . I Here are aiso several
ha acouired all the asset of the Ver- grandchildren and great-grandchildren,
mont Power Manufacturing company, The remains are to lie taken to Kllens-
with St. Allwins as . hcadouarters. the burg, where funeral services will be
right to issue and sell f 100,000 cumula- held in the Methodist church at 2 o'clock
tive, preferred stock at a maximum of 6 Thursday afternoon, with burial in that
per cent interest, "the proceeds of the town,
sale of such stock to lie used only in dis
charging the principal of and retiring the
100,000 of second mortgage 3Q-year gold
bond of the ermont Power 4. Manu
factoring company."
Coincident with tins authority, the
commission gives the rublic Klectric
Light company, a Massachusetts corpora
tion, the right to do business in the
state of Vermont. The commission sane
TWO DEATHS AT SO. DUXBURY.
That of Smilie S. Smith Was Held Sun
day Afternoon.
Largely attended funeral services for
Sniilie S. Smith, who passed away sud
denly at his home in Plainfield Thursday
night, were held in the Methodist church
in that village Sunday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. j. B. Reardon, pastor of the
Barre Cniversalist-chureh, officiating, as
sisted by the Plainfield pastor, Rev. A.
W. Hewitt. Prayer services at the Iipuso
at 1 :30 o'clock were in charge of Rev.
Mr. Hewitt. Tlie bearers were: John
Foss and Alvi Davis, members of tho
Groton camp of Plniuficld, A. W. Baker,
a nephew of the deceased, and Mark Cut
ler, Leon Wilsons and liernie llson.
grandsons of Mr. Smith. There. was a
ladies' duet, "Some Happy Day, and ft
male quartet sang, "Abide with Me."
Members of the Groton Camp Fishing'
club of Plainfield, to which Mr. Smith
belonged, attended the services in a body.
Interment was made in the family lot in
the village cemetery.
Floral tributes included fhe following:
Pillow, '"Father," children; smilax, Mr.
and Mrs. Freeman Scott and Mrs. George
Bert Smith and
tioned the sale of the Vermont Povcr & the daughter of Klic and Christina
Mnnufactnring company to the Public
Electric Light company.
TWENTY PEOPLE INJURED.
When Elevated Trains in New York Col
lided.
WOMAN BURNED TO DEATH.
Mrs. Susan Burtt, 75, of Tewksbury,
Mass, ictim.
Ixiwell. Ma Jan. 24. Mr. Susan
Burtt. aged "." year and crippled, was
burned to death at Tenksbury vctcr-
iav afternoon at the home of her grand
daughters. Mis Irene Burtt and Mrs.
Thomas Sawyer, who were absent when
the fire destroyed the dwelling. Mr.
Burtt was the only occupant of the
house at the time.
New York, Jan. 24. Twenty person.
most of them women and children, were
njured here yesterday afternoon in a
collision between- two elevated railroad
trains crowded, with passenger on a
new draw-bridge across the Harlem riv
er. '
There was a panic among the passen-
it a . niii. ,i;m..,.n !. th
guards and bridge employe restrained " Fayston
many from stepping on the electrically
charged third rail or leaping into the
river. Most of the injured were trampled
under foot or cut by flying glass.
Mrs. Ormi Bruce from Shock, and Perley
Wheeler from Pneumonia.
Waterbury. Jan. 24. Mr. Ormi
Bruce died at South Duxbury Sunday i Warner: carnations-
as the result of a shock. Her maiden j family ; pillow, friends and neighbors;
name wa Hannah McAllister and she roses,' Mr. and Mrs. O. W. Baker; mound
of roses and carnations, Groton camp
boys; narcissus. Mrs. Albert Currrer;
roses, Karl C. Cutler and Mrs. Clara
Page; carnations, Cutler Corner associa
tion; carnations, Mr. and Mr. Mark
Cutler; carnations, Mrs. Sanders and
Mrs. George Grant; carnations, G. W.
and F. M. Lynde; roses, Margaret Rock;
carnations, Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Buxton;
carnations, Mr. and Mr. Carl Woodcock.
(Phillips) McAllister. She leaves five
children, Mrs. Jay Smith of St. Al
bans, Mrs. Freeman Haydcn of Berlin,
Mrs. Frank Sawyer of Moretown, Mrs.
William Fisher of South Duxbury, with
whom Mrs. Bruce resided, and Arthur
Bruce of Montjielier. There are also
two grandchildren and three great
grandchildren.
Another death m South JJuxmiry is
that of Perley Wheeler, son of Charles
and Nellie (Corliss) Wheeler, who live
on Ward hill. He wa the only one of
the children left at home and hi par
ent were considerably dependent upon
him. He leaves, beside his parents, two
ister, Mr. Corliss and Mrs. Joseph
PLAINFIELD MEN ARRESTED.
FUNERAL OF JOHN BYRNES.
PERHAPS FATALLY INJURED.
MARRIAGE AT WATERBURY.
Of Stoneshed Foreman and a Bethel
Brakeman Caught While Coupling Cars
at Springfield.
Springfield. Jan. 24. Supido Domico.
who h been employed by the Spring-
Was Held from St. Sylvester's Church
in Graniteville.
field F.ailway -omwmy, since the con
,4rn 1.. n tminei4. l.i reart Afn. i-n
seriously nJ perhap fatally injured .,an-
Sunday while uncou ling a freight rf
from a nwtor. Hi le!t leg was caught
The curtly f Kent forms t'e n.utH-
I uned trere for gambling. The r-laee has
ther p.enger were IV Irederi. k 1 f--en mat.lie,! for several tiieV.t and Ut
A. t'.wk. the eil.er. and Oocar -l.ln'rl.t the f?Wr found a W ran m
France. errrtrv of the Am, rin uii-llhe t !a-e, Lirh - f.w-meilv .1 .
ViMcrn rriin of Ijj;Und. to tUe eovth t,t at Stockholm,
The funeral of John Byrnes, a well
known (Jraniteville quarry worker.
hne death followed an illness of pneu
monia, wa held in St. Sylvester' church
tins morning at 9 o'clock, the pari-h
priot. Rev. Jonoph Turcot, officiating.
The bearer were: Jowph Hogan. Ter-
fence H!n, Patrick Sheetian. John Shec-
1 horns liHpey anil 1 ereiiee .mo-
liinre. Tlie remain were brought to
this city for interment in the Catholic
cemetery OB Reckh-y street.
tmU-r t!icp. Mrl are rred thrno.
Woman.
Waterbury. Jan. 24. (n-nr Bni of
Waterburv and Annie Pediui of lietHcl
were nmrried at the home llirr are tn'lrimrrs the bumper and terribly man
wr-upy lere, on Saturday afiemoon.Jn-Igled from the ar.kle t the hip. Ir.
t of the Peace L K. ( amj U II p.T- j M..rc and Ir. Haren were called and
forming the n-.nrrUge rerrmonv in the .the nun w tken to t!e bnpttal.
prevr.ee of a few fricn.!.. After t! Dr. J. M. iiiiH 'f the Mrr H.t.-
larriee Cere wa a e.i.! r,! r-ev.n. '. V h.piUl at Hnnover. X. H wa f led a writ of review in the bankrupt
Mr. Pma i f,.reiaa f. r ti Lmoa nninwl. He raid it will 1 ne,try cy case of L. A. Flirt and the vt'.l
pin t' work. to ampuUte the b-g at the tip. before ,Juh.-e IlaiUnJ P.. lljwe.
Has Filed Writ of Review.
Attorney FJrd H. Dcavitt of Mont
r-lier. acting for 1. If. P. Roweil,
William Wagner and Charles Gilchrist
Charged with Burglary.
William Wagner and Charles Gilchrist
of Plaintield are in county jail charged
with burglary as the result of a search
made Saturday afternoon by Deputies
Henrv C. Lawson and Kdward Bartlett
of the house occupied bv Wagner. The
officer found blankets, dishes and other
articles, which it i alleged, were tolen
from the residence of Kdward Stowe in
Plainfield a week ago.
Wagner has been in custody before and
bear none too good a reputation.
BADLY SHAKEN UP.
Secretary of the Interior Lane aad Wife
in Runaway Accident.
Washington. D. C, dsn. 21. S-cr. Ury
of the Interior Lane and Mr. Lane wer
badly shaken np resteijay when tti
h.)r.H attached to a rrTiai;. in which
they were nding threw the vehicle int
I. a Mmppo.t and draped it half a b! k
hwn a if-wa.k. 1 be runaway end-
w ' t-n ti e lre be- arr e entangled im
the harness nl ML
