fW
4'Ljw!itfiv'fi i mtw mi' wmjui " ,1'jiuh
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
itaienmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
voi.H'-N0-120
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, FBHUIJARY 8, 10l.
Cortsiotir, 1010, M tub rustic Ltoau CouriNi.
PIUOJ3 ONE OI3NT
wHM
fcL&KT Ss. 5&fi
w0 ttyyS&K:ky,r!,iffr s rfWA ""wttjT fink
mtug
(ACCEPTANCE OF
REPLY LIKELY BUT CABINET
FAILS TO ACT DEFINITELY
president and Lansing
Hold (Jonierence at
White House Wash
ington Optimistic
Berlin's Concessions Reported
Satisfactory to wiison vvuy
Left Open for Further Nego
tiations Upon Minor De
mands. VonBcrnstorff to Hear Views of Pros-
ident ami juivisurs hi "'-"--With
Secretary Lansing Tonight.
' jfay Present New Anglo on Con
cessions WASHINGTON. Feb S.
' Today's Cabinet meeting failed to do
l,,,,, whether Germany's latent I.u.sltania
Vlftrlhall lo accepted. It was Indicated
?tno fear la held of a break, but that
i -.i.... ntirntlntlnnH aro possible The
Iriblnct was divided In Its opinion as to the
'" Mtent of the latest Gorman efforts to
.' 3.tfi the controversy and whether It tills
the bill as far as this Government Is
concerned. The majority thought It did.
Th President and Secretary Lansing
I' Ibelleved It better that Count von Items
fiorff. German Ambassador, should bo
ssked whether the latest German ug
ostlons can bo Interpreted tho same In
'both languages. Secretary 1-anslng will
confer with Ambassador IleriistorfC late
today or tonight. '
Following the Cabinet meeting ono of
the members discussed tno uovciopmenis
is follows:
I "It seems to us hero now Hint this Is a
J question of pollcv and not a question of
I' law. Germany, wo believe, lias conceded
J! to us virtually everything wo demandod.
i w rannot bnccle about technicalities.
1 The American people would not submit
.' to this nation becoming involved so mm
tho danger of war would becomo Ini
f.mlnent, by splitting balrs or haggling
- .over the meaning of words and phrases.
' We believe tho Jjiisltnula crisis as a.
crisis-has disappeared. Secretary Lans
ing has complete authority from the
I President to act. When ho finishes his
-, conference, with Ambassador 'nernstorft
6 A statement may bo forthcoming. And
It may not But wo have not i cached a
deadlock. Tho optimistic feeling Is fully
f warranted. Wo bellevo tho Amerlcnn
f public will bo mtisllctl when It gets all
of the facts."
,Secretory Lansing hurrIcil.,back,to his,
f office from luncli tbdarnurcfUsed him-
Hlltoall visitors. He Called tho Herman
tatassy at unco on tho telephone and
trruured a conference with Ambassador
Buutorff at tho hitter's convenience this
afternoon Tho Secretary ndmlttcd Hint
beaHe tho Lusltnnla case he and the Am
Wmdor would discuss tho Appam case.
Count von llornstorff notllled Secretary
lanslns that ho would bo Kind to call at
1J0, and a conference was arranged for
that hour.
Prior to llio Cabinet meeting todny
President Wilson and Secretary Lansing
debated tho situation at great length.
When tlm Cihliu.t iiientlni? nndeil tho
t President detained Secretary Lansing and
j Attorney General Gicgory for a further
l conference on the situation.
; It Is understood that tlio Administration
f believes that the time has como to pet
S every possible concession from Ocrmany.
It was made plain todny that tho United
States will nccept a frank endeavor on
i Germany's part to reach an agreement
J (atlsfactory to both Governments. But
It Is not wilting to accept tho statements
'"peddled" via Berlin Hint this Govcrn
J mentmust take Germany's own construe
I Hon.
I VONREVEXTLOW CRITICIZES
I CHANGE IN WILSON'S POLICY
t Intimates That President Suits Words
to Occasion as Required
BERLIN, Fob. 8. Count von neventlow,
famous German naval critic and political
expert, wrltlnc lit tho current Issue of
i toe Deutsche TageszeltuiiB, has tho fol-
iuwing criticism to mnko or I'rcsiaent
wjlion's attltudo toward diplomacy:
In his recent speeches President WII-
da declare,! tlm TTnUn.l Rttttnu fllrl Tint
btroduce delicate points or technical In-
. Umretatlonn Intn iHtnmnMnnnl rain tlntia
("'Preferred the clear senso and text
' VI dOCUmpntn That ta in nnnirnat wltf,
ti?r'!ent Wlson's speech a year as;o be-
(! me American Bar Association when
S r.f,aI1 "'at he was no partisan of the
(Mbit to Interpret law after precedent
instead of turning his faco In the direc-
"u 01 justice "
THE WEATHER
SlSi .. r ,lle correctness of our weather ,
Kuciion-we mean the ono about our I
ii nava some more jeal cold
"rattier, and not the one about our not
tofrif .nl . ..
Z,'r. '" 'lava some more real com i
" It Camo trill. WaII w linvn n Inf
JWJ perfectly good predictions up our
lee.Ve which wn win un..ii.i .vim,, wo, t
iood art ;..,",-","" "v. .":' """,
uunsr to bo too prodigal of gifts. There
(one curious thing about cold weather
VnenOOlCIU 111 tllla pIIv nn lmr lu tlint
toiIalely Boea along Just being solidly
Jr," w more than two days or so wlth-
-" .iiung Bomo climax, cither a bllz-
Mra op n .n...i 1. I...
luin.. i. tiii;ia (uiu-uuuuv imu an
K.nt. ,jr wa,m sPeH. One of these alter- I
rdv 7 tV6. accordingly predict, this Sth
it. ' ?ebruary. 1916.
Jitanwhlle, let us eniov the callant. red.
ImSr,. wealher of today, which Is more
o tha" what may hPPcn tomor-'
FORECAST
, 'Or Philadelahia ami vieinitu
hW fa,w0 eloudineaa and slowly ris-
K,, J7miure fomght and Wednea-
eiytnj '"-. .ui mviv tvtr.ua ic
fS'"' southerly.
i or details ai
dttails sec page IS.
LOST AND FOUND
a-r,,. ,,.. . .-. : r
wit J " ulc" "'' noe, hdio ana white,
Sw?Vear olJ. n -idwiie. Feb. 4,
LaSS I w"0 r i'U"'C'1 61 w- Wunwtwil t..
i ? tC Unrlln'M uiu n.l t'i ... t.i -i
Lard i V ;?".". tTirf1.."l.w"cu"'
It llnllsnd
SOOtt Cheatnut at
"A' let
Pti 12th t or JS'orrU be-
i'i
.Ml Mil b miiUli U ET Ilewr
5E'or V'lU ami lHamoad ati
tr U ttU4 yvuu& Ada ou J'aio ltt
LUSITANIA
President Tells Cabinet
of Ncios on Lusilania
Larly sdttlemcnt of the Lusi
tijnin controversy with Germany is
virtunlly assured, according to nn
announcement made at the White
House this morning.
President Wilson nnd Secretary
Lansing held " conference this
morning when the vnrious points
m the case were threshed out.
Following tho conference tho
President laid the Lusitania case
before the Cabinet. It is reported
that, in addition to several impor
tant concessions made in the last
note. Berlin litft the way open for
further advances to tho United
States.
No decision was reached at tho
Cabinet meeting as to the definite
acceptance of the German reply,
but it was said that dnnger of a
break was now most remote.
Von RcrnstoriT will hoar the
latest views of the President and
his Cabinet at a conference with
Secretary Lansing tonight.
ARMOR PLANT
FOR U. S. GETS
V0TE0F9T03
Penrose Sounds Warning
Against Senate Naval
Committee's Action
BLOW AT PRIVATE FIRMS
Bethlehem and Midvalc Will
Dismantle May Boost Prices
in Meanwhile, Senator Says
How Committee Voted
on Armor Plate Bill
FOK
Tillman, South Carolina.
Swnnson, Virginia.
Bryan, Florida.
Johnson, Maine.
Chilton, West Virginia.
Phclan, California.
Pittman, Nevada.
Clapp, Minnesota.
Poindexter, Washington.
AGAINST
Penrose, Pennsylvania.
Lodge, Massachusetts.
Smith, Michigan.
WASHINGTON'. Feb. S. By a vote of
fi to 3, tho Naval Affairs Committed today
reported favorably tho bill for an $11,000,
000 KedernI armor plate factory.
Previous to tho voto Senator Penroso
announced his opposition and uttered a
warning that tho private plants would
go out of business'whcu tho Government
began lo mako armor and meanwhile
would add (200 a ton to all armor plato.
The Bethlehem and Mid vale companies
will dismantle, tho Senator said. An ad
vance In price on armor plato to the Gov-
Continued on race Tiro. Column Seirn
EUGENE L. ELLISON
FOUND DEAD IN OFFICE
Noted Insurance Head and Fin
ancier Expires
Suddenly
From a puuunm by Hugh llreckenrldse.
EUGENE L. ELLISON
Eugene I Ellison, president of the In
surance Company of North America, Alli
ance Company, and widely known In
lliianclal circles, fell dead today In his
olllce at 308 Walnut street
Mr. Klllson complained of not feeling
well severul days ago, and his physician
advised a visit to Atlantic City. Mr.
Ellison left Atlantic City early today for
Philadelphia, after Instructing his wife
to take a later train. Mrs. Ellison did
not know of her husband's death until
some time after her arrival home. She
was prostrated when she heard the news.
Mr Ellison was 71 years old and re
sided at 4100 Walnut street. He was born
Catumed 0n ra Four. Celuma T
!!-, HI
' PRIMA DONNA AND ACTOR WED TODAY
JfcftP..flBp ft' - ft 4&kss
fjfr-K vSi ll&SSKMAm JSP '
i I ' IMiilllf Wm .a 'ilMfiir ii I - &J
wWwMjt .m&miWjbfcw MmSm
ii iMrnllinili IMii I
VBRKI'V "inMVHHHHHBIHHMHHKSi! tiiw:IBiWr
. . . ft IfflsL jj . ..
FRENCH
LOST TRENCHES
FROM GERMANS
Berlin Admits Foes Cap
tured Position, but Assert
They Were Retaken
AVIATORS RAID BRITISH
Camps at Poperinghe and Dix
mude Shelled- From Aero
planes Raiders Escape
HKItMN, Feb. S.
Tcrrillc lighting for the possession of
trenches south of the Somme Itlver has
been in pi ogress since Sundav evening.
Tho German War Olllce admitted todny
that a section of tho trenches recently
captured south of the Souiuio was taken
by tho French In a nlglit attack, hut was
subsequently won back by tho Germans.
German aeroplanes have bombarded two
Kngllsh mllltnry camps In west Flanders.
There is a lull nn tho oast front.
Following Is tho text of tho olllcl.il
roport:
"South of the Somme tbcro hale been
lively battles with artillery. On Sunday
night a small trench section in our new
positions was lost to tho French. On Mon
day afternoon, after preparation with
artillery, the Fiench made .mother attack,
but it was repulsed. On Monday evening
wo dellveicd a counter attack which re
gained for us our lost ground.
"A German aeioplaiie squadron at
tacked tho camp i.t Poperlngho and also
tho Kngllsh cantonments between Poper
lngho and Dlxmude, Helgltim. After fre
quent fights with aircraft of tho enemy,
our machines teturncd to our lines with
out loss."
PARIS. Feb. 8. Mining operations by
tho French were the feature, of opera
tions on the west front last night, accord
i Ing to the following official communique,
i Issued by the War Office today:
I "South of the Sommo our artillery bom
barded a train between Hoye and Chaul
1 nes. In the Argonno we exploded a mine
1 near Bt. Hubert nnd three other mines at
Vauquols. On the rest of the front tho
night was calm."
Policeman Sued for $2500
Policeman John AValters, attached to the
, :6th and York streets station, has been
' named defendant in - suit brought by
Joseph I.lcbman, -113 Mercy street, to re
cover ?2500 damages for injuries the plain
tlft sustained to his scalp as the result
of being struck over the head by the
policeman while ho was viewing the New
Year's parade.
LA PERLUSTRAZIONE
DEL MEDITERRANE0
Incrociatori degli Alleati alia
Caccia di Sottomarini e di
Navi Leggere Nemiche
Uu telegramma da Roma dice che velo
cisslml Incrociatori ingles! o francesl per-
lustrano lo piu' nequeniaie rotte del
Mediterranean o dell'Atlantlco .orienatale
' tiai- flnra In r:LCci;L Hi Hnttnmiirlnl tnlauclil
,... -.w.w .-. . . -- ... jr... .MVMW...
cd austrlacl o ad alcu.nl incrociatori leg
gerl tedescht che si crede souo ora al largo
alio scopo dl dlstruggere o catturarare I
piroscafl delle najlonl nlleate dell'Intesa.
Gil Incrociatori alleati hanno sequestrato
una grande quantlta' dl combustlbilc II
quldo nelle Isolo greche combustlbilo cho
era evidentemente destlnato ai sottoma
rini teutonlcl.
In numerosi puntl delle coste del Medl
terraneo sono sbarcati rcpartl di marinal
higlesi a francesl per ricercare lo basl dl
rifornlmento del sottomarifft nemlcl.
Anche nell'Atlantlco gll Incrociatori al
leati fanno rlcerche attlvlsslme sullo coato
portoghesl o spagnuole ed al largo delle
isole Canarle ed Azzorre per scoprlre
le bast dl rifornlmento del sottomarini e
degli incrociatori leggerl tedescht
(Leggere in 4a patina le ultlme e piu'
dettagllate notizie sullo, guerra. In Ital
ian o.-
iiiiuiiiN f- t i iiHiiiYmiN rmi
. A I f I "? - ii-rt' ESI 4 ll.'ll I I 1 nil III A nil
j si
Silk
'. -
.vBB1
Gcraldinc Farrar, sinpjer and
jihotoplny star, today became the
wife of Lou TclleRen, matinee
idol and also "movie star." Ho
was formerly leading man for
Sarah "Bernhardt.
BREWERS ASK COURT"
TO QUASH SUMMONS IN
ELECTION GIFT PROBE
Petition in Pittsburgh Shows
Fight Will Be Made Against
Any Sweeping
Inquiry
U. S. ATTORNEY OBJECTS
PITTSnt'RGir, Feb. S. The Federal
Grand Jury Inquiry Into brewery con
tributions to political campaigns was un
expectedly brought Into the I'nlted States
District Court when. Just before noon to
day, counsel for brewery Interests peti
tioned tho court to quash tho Bubpocnas
Issued against their clients.
Tho petition was strenuously opposed1
by United States District Attorney
Humes, who asked for a speedy decision
In order that the Grand Jury inquiry,
scheduled to start Thursday or Friday,
may go on.
Tho defendant associations are: The
United States , Brewery Association,
Pennsylvania Browery Association,
Brewers' Association of Western Penn
sylvania. Westmoreland County Brewers'
Association and tho Fayette County
Browery Association.
Mr. Shaw indicated at tho outset that
the tight would-be made against tlio
sweeping character of the proposed In
quiry. In support of this bo indicated In
tho brewery petition tho language of
United States District Attorney Humes In
one of tho subpoenas that directed to an
officer of tho Pennsylvania Brewers' As
sociation. This subpoena, called for the production
In court of all the books and records of
the association, all correspondence, its
constitution and by-laws, all check books,
minutes of meetings and records of ex
penditures and receipts during 1911, 1312,
1913, 19U and 1913l
The other subpoenas were allko in this
respect, counsel, said.
Mr. Shaw chanted that such subpoenas
wero without warrant In law, and asked
that they be quashed.
Specifying, ho put his objections under
three heads:
First. That the sweeping character of
the information, demanded was in express
violation of the constitution of the Unit
ed States, which protected citizens front
unreasonable search.
Second. That tho subpoenas are do-"
fectlve in tha,t there was no order of
Court on rccoid authorizing the action.
Third. That the subpoenas ulto aro de
fect he in that they do not specify who
those subpoenaed are to testify against.
Indicating the possible attitude of the
Court, Judge Orr, when United States
District Attorney Humes uroto to reply
to Attorney Shaw, asked:
"Is there any authorization for such a
dragnet proceeding?"
Mr. Humes, replying, bald that, in tho
first place, it was not a dragnet. "Each
subpoena, with the testimony the witness
gave before (he Grand Jury, would de
termine "how much of dragnet there will
be." he added."
After furthar argument over the sweep
ing character pf the subpoenas, the Court
continued the hearing until next Friday
afternoon.
1
- .- . QJ
rj iTn' lujl".- '
BIG TRIPLE DRIVE
AGAINST ALLIES
Gigantic Movement to
Strike Foe in Flanders, on
dreek Line and in Russia
v1. : -'
MASSING ON FRONTIERS
Demonstration Under Way to
Awe Rumania Into Con-
tinued Neutrality
LONDON', Feb. 8.
That Germany has determined to com
bat tho effect of the Allies' diplomacy In
I Ituiuauia wltli a vast military demonstra
tion Is reported In dispatches from Am
sterdam and Geneva today.
Advices say that tho Germans may at
tempt the most ambitious enterprise of
I tho war a triplo offensive. For some
time vast numbers of troops and nn enor
mous amount of fresh artillery have been
I massed on the western front and on the
Greek frontier, and now it Is reported
thattho German War Odlco Is preparing
for a series of attacks against the Rus
sians. A Bucharest dispatch says that hostil
ities have been resumed by the Russians
In Bukowiiiu, but weather conditions
throughout the entile eastern theatre
! have been so inclement for weeks that
lighting on a big scale could not bo at
tempted by either side. From the Baltic
to the south ranges of tho Carpathians
there have been blizzards, leaving the
roads and mountain passes buried be
neath mountains of snow. The thermom
eter registers from zero tu 00 or moro
degrees below.
In .Macedonia and Albania a similar
state of affairs has hindered a big forward
movement by cither side, but advantage
has been taken of the lull to make prepa
rations for an advance when conditions
become moro favorable.
If Germany undertakes an offensive
movement in all three theatres of war
simultaneously it will ho one of tho most
gigantic enterprises ever attempted In
this or any other war.
ANOTHER I)U PONT IJLOW-UP
Usual Minor Explosion at Powder
Plant None Hurt
WILMINGTON, Del.. Feb. 8. -A small
quantity of powder exploded in n pellet
press at the Hagley yard of (he du Pont
Powder Company late laBt night. No one
was Injured.
Since the big explosion of November 30,
In which 31 men lost their lives, only
small quantities of powder are put through
most of tho processes at this plant, and
explosions which occur are generally of a
minor nature.
FARRAR AND ACTOR
WED IN NEW YORK
Singer Becomes- Bride of Lou
Tellegen Bala Resident
Best Man
NEW YORK, Feb. S.-Mlss Geraldlne
Farrar, grand opera and motion picture
star, and Lou Tellegen, former leading
man for Sarah Bernhardt, wero married
at noon today at the Farrar residence.
Only a few Intimate friends were pres
ent. Charles A. Ellis, Miss Karrur's con
cert manager, stood with her, and Mr.
Tellegeu's best man was C, G. Chllds,
of Bala, Pa. The officiating clergyman
was the Rev. Leon Harvey, a Unitarian
clergyman of Brooklyn.
The library In which the ceremony was
performed was a mass of (lowers.
Miss Farrar's marriage was a surprise
to many of her friends, for aha had de
clared on many occasions that "her ar.t
was tho only husband she would ever
have. '
The couple will have a deferred honey
moon, owing to the fact that both are
lining theatrical engagements At this
time.
QUICK NEWS
PRESIDENT SOON TO SETTLE SECOND TERM QUESTION
WASHINGTON. Feb. 18. Whether President Wilson will be a
candidate to succeed himself will be known within the next few days.
It was announced at the White House today that the President would
shottly ndvlse the Secretary of State of Ohio wln-licr he would allow
his tinino to be placed on the Ohio ballots.
RUSSIAN FLOTILLA SINKS 40 TURK SHIPS
FARIS, Fell, 8. KUfisl.iu torpedobouts sank 40 turklsh calling
vi.vu'Ib in the Jllnck Sea .iwl bombarded three naval construction
yjitltt uloufjr the Auutolinii const, drcoiiling to dispatches received
litre todny.
TWINING HAS TRANSIT CHANGES IN MIND
Mayor Kmltli said tniliiy Unit when William S. Twining, tlio now Director
of tho Department of City Transit, look Hungo of tho department on February
If lie WOtlM Ut) tlXOl' Willi him tbn IimiikII Mlllliltlnti no ,, i.-li.iln m.1 r..,lll.,...,A
I himself with all details. "Mr. Twining
I me .Mayor, wnii-n, in his opinion, would
CARRANZA SHIFTS CAPITAL OK MEXICO
WASHINGTON, Feb. 8.- Querelaro was decreed the .Mexican capital by
General Carrnna today, necordlng to a message lo the Kinliassy here. Tho
choice Is temporary, and Me.lcn City is expected lo be named again after
organization of the republic Iium been completed, A romttlttitUmnl convention
will meet in Qiieretnro Keptember 111.
Querelaro is tlio capllal of tlio Stole of Queietiirii mid lies 110 mllca
northwest of Mexico City. The Kmporor Miixlitilllan was shot at Querctaro
nn June 1!). ISM. It wuh (he lost stronghold lie defended before Ills fall. Tho
city Itself Is in a valley, In well built anil has a number of lino building's Includ
ing a splendid Uovernment palace. Its population is about I.p..000.
FOREIGNERS MUST HAVE $50 IN GOLD TO ENTER MEXICO
Qt'HKKTARO, Mex., Feb, S. General Veiiuallaiin Carianza, "First Chief"
of tho Constitutionalists, lias Issued a ilecreo that no foreigner will be allowed
to enter Mexico unless he possesses $fi0 in gold.
U. S. NAVY READY FOR ANY PACIFIC FLEET
WASHINGTON, Feb. S. The American navy today Is prepared to meet
"any enemy It may be failed upon to battle with In the Pacific," Admiral Blue,
Chief of Navigation of the navy, declined today before the Houso Naval
Affairs Committer. -The (line required for the fleet to reach tho Pacific would
be Htitllclent In which to prepare the fleet for war, he said.
BRITISH MAY SEND SPECIAL AGENT TO U. S.
LONDON, Feb. S. President Wilson's scheme of sending a confidential
diplomatic agent abroad has won such commendation hero that Knglnnd is
considering sending a "Colonel Houso" of her own to America, It Is reported.
Tho Foreign Ofllce, It was reported, Is considering sending a skilled diplomat,
well acquainted In America, to Washington to present fresh views from hia
Government, Just as Colonel House lias ucqunlntcd American Ambassadors
abroad nnd foreign oillclnlH with Anierlcun ofllclnl nnd -unofficial sentiment..
Such n course, it Is believed, may smooth out some of tho present dlrllcultjoa
over British blockado regulations.
SCOTTI RECOVERING FROM PNEUMONIA
NMW VORIC, Feb. S. Antonio ScottI, the grand opera star, who has been
ill with pneumonia, today was on the road to recovery. His condition con
tinues to improve.
AUSTRIA REQUISITIONS ALL LEATHER IN EMPIRE
ZURICH, Fob. S. A decreo has been issued by the Austro-IIungariun Gov
ernment confiscating all the leather in the dual monarchy.
CARSON ORDERED TO TAKE REST
LONDON, Feb. S. Sir Kdw.ird Carson, former Attorney General, has been
ordered by his physician to tako a Iho weeks' rest. Ho Is suffering from e.v
haustion, duo to his activities of tho last four years. Before tho war Sir Edward
Carson was the lender of tho Irish Unionist party and was 'active in forming
tho Ulster volunteers to resist the putting of homo rule Into force. In May,
1915, when the coalition Cabinet was formed. Sir Edward assumed the portfolio
of Attorney General. He resigned tho following October because of dissatis
faction with tho conduct of tho wnr.
COLONEL HOUSE LEAVES PARIS FOR LONDON
PARIS, Feb. 8. Colonel E. M. House, special diplomatic ugent of Presi
dent Wilson, began the last lap of his European Journey today, when ho left
for London. Tho impression prevails In Paris that Colonel Houso camo
abroad to make a study of conditions In England, Franco and Germany, nntl
that lio will report his views fully to President Wilson upon his return to tha
United States late this month.
BELEAGUERED BRITISH TO HOLD KUT-EL-AMARA
LONDON, Fob, 8. British military authorities have no intention of aban
doning Kut-el-Amara, Mesopotamia, snya a Ileuter dispatch from Delhi, India.
According to Turkish claims, tlio British army of General Townshend in
Kut-el-Amara is surrounded, but the Delhi dispatch indicates that the road
eastward along tho Tigris River is open if tho English euro to tako advantage
of it. There has been a lull in the lighting in Mesopotamia because of bad
weather. British operations there aro being directed by Sir Percy Lako, Clilef-of-Staff
of War for India.
ALLIED CRUISERS SCOUR SEAS FOR RA'lDERS
ROME, Feb. 8. Speedy British and French eruisera aro scouring tha
Mediterranean nnd east Atlantic steamship lanes for German submarine bases
and for German commerce raiders which uro belloved to be at large in that
vicinity. A largo nmount of provisions and "oil have been contlscated on
islands in the Grecian Archipelago on tho ground that they wero to be used
by German submarines. Landing jmrties of British and French sailors havo
been put nslioro at numerous points to bearch for supplies intended for Ger
man submarines.
ALLIED CRUISERS ON WATCH FOR PRIZES
NEWPORT NEWS. Vu., Feb. S. British shipmasters arriving hero report
that two allied cruisers one British and tho other French aro patrollng the
coast off the Virginia Capes. Since there ia no probability tho German prize
Appam will put to bea In the near future marine men take the presence of the
warships to mean that tho allied Governments expect other prizes captured by
the mysterious German raider to be taken to Hampton Roads.
BRITAIN DENIES ZEPPELIN SANK CRUISER
LONDON. Feb. 8. .The following official statement lias been Issued here;
"A German wireless message quotes Koclnlche Zeitung reports from the Dutch
frontier that on tho occasion of tho recent air raid on England II. M. S. Caroline
was struck by a bomb in the I lumber and sunk with great loss of life, Neither
the Caroline nor any other of his Majesty's ships nor nny merchant ship, large
or small, was struck by a bomb in tho Humber nor in any other port,'
AUSTRIAN PRINCE AND PRINCESS WIN EXCHANGE
PLYMOUTH, England, Feb. 8. Prince and Princess Emmanuel de Salm
Salm of Austria, who were hold as Brltisn prisoners of war, have been ex
changed for Colonel Gordon, V. C, who was captured at Mons, The Satin
Salms arrived here yesterday from Gibraltar, where they havo been held aineq
they were captured while on a hunting trip in South Africa- Prince Emmanuel,
an Austrian cavalry officer, is the eldest son and heir of Prince de Salni-fcUlm.
Princcas Emmanuel is the eldest daughter of Archduke Frederick, the com
mander-iu-chlef of the Austro-Hungarian army King Alfonso of Spain 13
credited with having; arranged this exchange of prisoners.
him In mind Mime minor cIiiiiirc.i," said
Iminnvo tinnsll conditions in the- city."
M
I
1
a
Jr. A .. itBiflMllM I ill' -
