he
LIFE IN THE FIRST
LINE FRENCH TRENCHES
The graphic story of a young American
who won the French war cross
for gallantry.
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
ratid colder to-day; rising tempera
ture to-morrow.
est temperature yesterday, 43; lowest, t8.
illed weather, null nnd m irlnc reports on page IX
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 161.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1916. Copyright. 1016. by the Sun I'rMtnp nnd I'ublhMng Assoctattn.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Jstm.
INTERBOROUGH
PAID LAWYERS
OPPOSED TO IT
Howl' Secretary Tells of
I.arire Sums lo Fighters
of Subway Contract.
A I IHTOK TO KX PLAIN
MANY OTHER BIG FEES
J. I'. .Morjran & Co. Heady at
Times to Furnish
.$100,000,000.
3IOM-V OX HAND TO
KOI! XEWSIRWAY
Bonds Deposited "With
Hunkers to Secure Work
in; Capital.
Fuitie renditions of the scale on
it .h t f flti.incl.il operations of the
Irltrl'oiouKli Rapid Transit Company
tre rondui-ttd were made csterday te
Dre the Thompson legislative committee.
Ilor.ue M Flfher. secretary of the
ffmr.'iu was on the stand throushout
ii-t ila anil from him ltalubrldge Colby,
I iiiel for the committee, drew these
i.r'i'iiiip facts".
Mint tie sigimig of the dual sys
tem totiiracts the lutcrboioush has
made a practice of lea vine with the
Mnr:.it tlrm most of the moncyH
tJKrn n tor bonds, retelling from the
M tg it tlrm Interest on these deposits
t Ik i.ile of "li per cent. On
J-.ii i last the film of such bal
i. o left with the Morgan tlrm was
V .r repii-M'titliiK the plaintiff In a
i ' jkIi to tet the valiiltty oi tno
ill'U ill Iltita, nil which the bonds
u I leiboinugh wen: predicated,
t i .. la paid $j7,Sh!.:Hi to Hay?,
lift 'i 1. 1 A: Will', lawyer?, ami an
m ,il S"r.3 1 S.T - to Uuggenheltncr,
I ti a- Man-hall.
ii'.il serWicn In connection with
,ii conn act the company
I .. .iiT!'.;.". to 1'rancla Lvpde Stet- 1
.t I for that amount having
neii utter Mr. Morgan ha J
p i reasonab o
'n (.thorough pnlil to J. P.
k .urn hie associates In the syn- .
f. c wli It iiudetwiote the com
p.mi i. stibwaj bonds l.'iO'l.OfiO tor I
I- e u.iJi mi tall to serie (he coin
s'" I Ki. il seniles, till' exact nature,
' i mm not disclosed, the com
r i l.i I former city Comptroller
j: .ii I M c.rotit $17,501).
I leal serines miller a lontiact
.1 I" Mot gap it Co. the Inter
r ie i-.mi J.Mi,07? 7.'i to Ceorgc M.
(. i i.u
l i lekal seniles the company also
r. .i ie aituc-nt of $30.u00 to Richard
I. It iters, its own cuum-el.
1 t was a small payment of IS.nnO
I" iaii J o linen for legal services
f i Mi I' mui if.itlllfU that theie
'alii.. nthr small payments of
t , .ii ie li.iiiir tcr The payment of
i ii m ivfn iletlni.-il into sin h a strong
' i ' "I the inicstlgatlini esterluy
tint Mt Colby asked Mr. Fisher to pre
I f irphic statement of all fees
rl l r ulMili. attoi nejs
I'll III IIIihnIiiu ( iniiiKi-l,
T ' i Hi.it two ilrms of law.iers tc
ff ' ' m the liiterborough payments
'is 63.12S.ti; for ivpri'tentliiK
Ii 'i 'i s ippuM illy antagonistic to the
' leu .Mr. Colby anil .Senator
' 't nuike scanning reinaiUs
' iimstanie. Mr. Klsher salil In
" ' it he was unable to explain
t' " n .ti'i r flintier than to s.ly that It
v - ' f '.ie imprest of the company to
' i in -lii v of its contractu ile
tu ii.fi ami hi. jtssiimeil that to be the
Hi nip.iny tialil the money
11 knim Him tin. complainant
III.
' ' H ii .u tlif leconN show that a
' ' ii iiitlii by the Admiral Itealty
, 1 was Mire tills was not an
" ' Hi ' ' ompaii.
J' .' and bills produced by Mr,
J ' ,'r'l 'il tin- fact that on Octob-r
J . ,i. ii r-M iors authorUfd a pay-ru-
' f M?.,0 , I(aJ.)(i iirm.),),,!,
f r ,. ftwsiuiial services In de
' , lability of the proposed
'' 1 '" ubw,i systt-m and the
i ' i the same day pay.
!' ' ""2 to (iuggenheliiier,
A .il.iish.ill for services n
. ' 'i same case was author-
1 " her haul he remembered
' .." " in-sloii of the hills.
. ' "f tb" case shows that mi
, J1 " niiKlit on the ground that
, 1 11 'l ""itrai'ts lor the extension
( w.,y system were In violation
' "-tltmion. The case was
' ' ' ' ' ''null of Appeals, wheie
" L'mil on .hum 11 1 fi 1 ..n.l
i f.nor of the respondents,
'he city of New York,
ike I'liinmlshlon and the
t I
t I
J
fa of ll t,H looks like 11
'ii Hat Ahhoilatlon to look
1 i -.a'or Thompson when Mr,
' 11 morning session first told
! of attorneys for Its ml
' e InterlioioiiKh.
i
if
ll
ii" Admiral Realty Com
' mi tilalniiiit lu tills action''"
'. 1 ..Illy when tlie bills and
line In forn ll i 1 11.
1 cull -ay,'' reiillctl Mr. Klsher.
f "W '
" y lonne, Hon with the Inter-
'iiii' I know nf."
, " 1 '"Jul counsel for this realty
'li" oinii.iny emploeiI Its
1 lid 'lie Inteibnioush pay
Hal lo Hie Inlerlioroiiuli,
I !' Ins ,1111. , W1H fr
' I'ii li.iei-,i,ioiigi to i;Ue the
' " 1 onii.ti is ileti-rmlneil,"
' " '" 1 1 ugh pay thu bills of
Cciiidiiurri on ftn, I'dye.
Canada Watching 'Spies, ' i
Saps Lord Shaughnessp
.Munition Plant Attacks
Suspicious, Parliament
Fire "Accident."
HOPE IS U. S. WILL
KEEP OUT OF WAR
MoNlKE.it., CJue., Keh. 7 The tiuslest.
briskest man In all Canada stepped for
ward with right hand outstretched nnd n
genial sntlle when a Mnff Correspondent
of TllK SUN was ushered Into his private
otllce this afternoon the prlvnte otllce of
tho president of the Canadian Pacific
Railway, Lord Hhaughnessy of Montreal
and Ashford.
"I am thoroughly glad to see you," he
.lil In his rapid, positive way. "TllK
Si'N and 1 are excellent friends. Through
It I keep track of my old workmate's
and pla.i mates In New York, like Kred
Cnderwood of the Krle. I don't give
Interviews very often, partly because I
haven't the time and partly because I
am cot sure that my views are espe.
dally Interesting. Hut tf there is any
thing I can say that will be of Interest
to Tun Mf.v or to the people In America
1 shall be very pleased indeed,"
.Standing at that moment squarely in
the path of a bar of sunshine that
cleaied Its way through the whirling
snow-Makes lu the Rue Osborne outside
the great terminal of the Canadian l'a-
Icltlc lord .Shaughnessy was an Interest
ing study in virility and vigor.
Hl Witnilerfnl Vluitr.
Turnln into hit sixty-third year after
nearly a half century of tremendoui ac
tivity he looked not a day older than 45.
No streaks of gray show In his close
clipped reddish hair or In his small, neat,
reddish mustache and Imperial. Ills
face Is titleless and glowing with healthy
color. Ills eyes, clear blue, have a sin
gula! ly penetrating quality In their
glance. They snip with energy. Humor
reieals Itself at the corners uf his small
mouth.
"How successfully Is Canada carrying
her share of the empire's war burden?"
asked the Interviewer.
"Canada." said Iurd Shaughneny. "Is
In a much better position now. commer
cially. Industrially ami financially, than
she was a e.ir ago. The'great Improve
ment Is due partly to the Increased busi
ness arising because of war conditions,
but mostly to thu bountiful crops with
which the Dominion has keen favored.
The purchasing power of the pioducer
has Increased and is reflected In the gen
eral Improvement In merchandising and
tranV.
"I look for a continuance of this ac
tivity fur some montlm to come. Uf
course, like all countries where agricul
ture U the bails uf wealth and prumuTlty..
the question of crops will again becoin
vital. Rut I cannot help feeling that we
have passed over the worst period, have
BOMB SCARE NEEDLESS,
SAY USHER AND WOODS
Admit-ill Di'iiios He Akril for
Jridi (iuimls WIkmi CruN
of SnOrd ruder.
Whether or not the placing of heavy
police guards on th" Hrooklvn ai 1 Man
hattan bridges on Sunday while the
armored cruiser Washington pasfed up
the Kast River wan ilue to warnings of
cpy plots the officials concerned wetc
loath to talk alxiut It yesterday.
According to Washington despatches
Rear Admiral Psher. commanding the
Hrooklyn navy ard, had asked Police
rominl-sloner Wcsuls that special pre
cautions be taken after
Daniels had received warnings that a
h..mb might be dioppl on the -niIer.
Rear Admiral Teller denied last night
that he had asked any sneclal guards.
"I wish the newspapers would stop
printing anything about this matter." he
said "It Is highly Improper, and If tlie
do not of themselves adopt the proper
attitude they will presently he foued to
"'Tdui.ia! Psher would r.o. deny that
the ie(Utt for special guards had come
from Washington. Commissioner Woods
said that a y information about the
brlilge guards must come from the navy.
U least New Yorkers need no longer
fear being held up In the cuhway b.i a
bluecoat who wants t" know what they
hive In that "suspicious bundle. m-
mlsxloner Woods ki decided tint tin.
picketing of all suliwai and eley.t ed
stations on Saturday night caused too
much excitement, and he too Is angry
at the newspapers for printing so much
about It The plan was to have been
tiled again last night, but the older was
countermanded.
The. Commissioner repeated that the
idea was purely to round up thieves and
not Uwib plotter, and raid al-o that
the bridges always were guarded when
waishlps passed beneath If m.ly to pre
vent admlret. from dropping candy and
llow em on the sailors,
Wasiiinuton, Keh. 7. Warnings from
citizens of New York and Hrooklyn that
cranks or rnmjilratorH might attempt
to drop bnmhs on American warships
ti-.iteinr under the Hrooklyn and Miinhat
t in bridges In New York harbor e-anseil
th Navy Department to lequent tin
New York niithorltlf-M to place extrn
ImiIIio guards m Hie bridges yesterday
whin the cruiser Washington passed
through the harbor.
This fact was discovered to-day by
Secretary Daniel after lie reached hln
i 1.. 11, e NTiivv Denartmetit. Last
night he denied liny knowledge) of the
reasons for the precautions.
The warnings, addressed to Mr.
Danlelis, contain two letters, nun dated
Iniiuaiy 11 'rum a citizen of Manhat
tan and one dated February 2 from 11
resident of Hrooklyn. The Secretin y
was told by til 1 rubonllnattss that the
llrst of the tw" I'Her had lieen sent
to Rfiir Admiral L'sher, commandant of
the New York Navy Yard, with Instruc
tions to eommtinlcaln with the local au
thorities and make such arrangements
im might 1g1pr.tr lo him ndvlsnble to
prevent Injury being done to naial veo-
hCl.
F.XTKA CIMieARTMKNT t'AtV OPKK
ATtai UN "KI.OIHI M'lll'l.ll." TO PALM
ni'.AC'll Hint I : t Cii.ihi I'iiIiiIh Dally 3 fit Ii er
trains dally AtlsiiticCusiil Line, 11 U ).
ivA. -,j t-- in nir.ii ,ii i.iVii in ijinfTtft rf
i HHililHHIHH '
i
Lord Shaughnessy.
surmounted the most formidable obsta
cles and that Canada Is on the up grade
again a brave, strong young nation.
"I hope tli.it we will mole with caution
and conservatism, being careful to
glimpse what Is around the corner be-
I fore we leap too far. Perhaps t am not
as optimistic as I should be, but I try to
1 look at things from a business man's
'standpoint. There Is no mure reason
1 to close one's eyes to falorable signs than
to shut them to unfavorable slgn. I have
tried to strike .1 balance and 1 tlt.d that
I It Is distinctly promising for Canada."
"Many nifii of affairs have given their
notion of the probable duration of the
war. What is yours. Uinl Shaugh-
1 nessy"
"1 am 11 railroad man. not a prophet,"
replied the big boss of the C. P. R "My
I opinion is worth as much or as little as
I any other man's. Personally, I look for
I 11 long war. We are up against it per
1 fectly equipped, scientific, capable foe.
It will take time to bring htm to n
proper seiie "f his iinrlghteoii!.ess. Hut
to Hint sense he will be brought.
"No sane man can doubt that In the
end the empire nnd its allies win wn a
signal triumph for ell lllz.itinn. Canada
Is detei mined to do tier part She Is
shouldering her burdens lesolutelv unit
the tire of tier loyalty to tin- emplie l
blading In every piovince Whatever she
Is asked to do she will do."
Clinrj- of I, s. Topic
'How have you sensed Canada's at-
Canada bop,, t It.- Putted States wl 1 en
'011 n iieif 0,1 Thud I'ikic
HOUSE TO LEAVE PARIS i
TO-DAY; STILL SILENT '
AVill Sav Xotliiiiir AImhiI His
Trip Suve Tlutl UtMiHs
Satisfy Him.
' ' oPilt finp.itr. to Tim t -
P.iiiis. Feb. T. -Col. 1:. XI. Ilimse.
Piesident Wllson'M special envoy, rv
celled the members of the press at noon
to-day for th" second time since his ar
llval in Paris. Possibly discouraged by
the lack of copy afforded at the reception
on the day of his arilval. onl.i ten repie.
sentatin-s appealed.
The net information to lie g.i ued from
the lincoinmunlcatlie envoy was tti.it he
would leave to-mortow morning fur l.on
don, ttiat he was satisfied with the 11
suits of his mission and tli.it he h.nl
seen many people in Paris ,n.. Herlln
and would sec many In London
Col. lloti-e lunched pilv.itely to. day
with A nib issador Shaip .11. d ilui-.l prl
lately with Hiron il'Kstourni lies det'on
stant, an old friend whom he has entei
tallied lu Texas. .
All queries- regarding hl mission were
parried with courteous refusals or witty
fencing. When a reporter, parodying Ills
lierman confrere, asked jf lie nii'ght s.iv
tli.it France was dearer to him every
visit, he replied charmingly that that was
Impossible,
ijcorges Clemeiicioi loinuient- mi
Col. House's visit ut length 111 .lloMmr
Knrlminr, speaking of Ii ,iN "ih.ir.ic
terlstle of President Wllsoi, s spin; of
hesitation," ami adding.
"Ilurope has siiddeiil.i seen ,1 dumb
missionary disembark on it siioie- for
a tour of Inspection mining the com
batants. He has sissed everywhere,
appearing and dis.isjiearlng by turns
like the Flying lnitchiiuin in the mist,
of the horizon. lie li.is said nothing,
his whole mission rvldentli' beini; to ob
serie, Ills task, 1 siiime, i-. to .eport
falllifuly to the President-candidate the
conclusions he dt.iw.s from peisoiial ob
servation lis to tile b.ll.lll' C of for, e he.
tween the belligerents "
DU PONT PLANT WRECKED.
Plot Silspecled tin Ilea 11 1 1 nf lliplo.
aloii .Near 'I'iii'oiiih,
Tai'oma, IVIi, ". -An explosion
wrecked the Du Pont powder plant near
here to-day nnd, It n believed, was at
tended by loss of life. It reported that
an Incendiary plot Is Mispeeted,
Houses within a radius of nneial
miles of the plant were partly wrecked.
Communication with the plant has been
cut off
AETNA PLANT BLOWS UP.
Picric Acid ll l"sl"n Illinium's
Several llnlldliius,
i:.iiior.iit.ii, Pa Feb, 7. - Hiiildlng No
in of the .Dion Mxploslves Company
wiih demollslieil hcie to-night wheii two
tons of plcilc ,-icld blew- up, doing 1011
slderalile ilaiuage to oilier portions of
Hie pli'llc lihilit, pniiiculai'ly the labont
tory hulldlng.
Forty men rmiilnjcd m 1 Im structure
escaped One man hail IiIh slioiilder
broken.
WILLCOX BEATS
CHURCHILL IN
SCHOOL FIGHT
Stormiest Election in His
tory of the Hoard of
Education.
1 31 A VOIt IS ACCl'SEl): !
STATE IXQUIRV ASKED
William a Wlllcox of Ruhniond wa
elected President of the Hoard of lMu
cation jesterd.iy to sticee'd Thomas W.
Churchill. It was the stormiest election
In the hlsloiy of the board. The nomi-
natlng speeches were tilled with serious
charges nnd recriminations of a bitter 1
nature. During the early turmoil one 1
speaker had to be silenced b a sergeant
at arms. j
The election of Mr. Wlllcox Is a clear'
vlctoiv for Major Mltchrl. who lias been .
at daggers diawn with Ml. Churchill j
for the last .lea The Chili .'till: faction )
went down lighting, lion ever, and from
remarks passed after the meeting bar-
inony will not lelgn In the board any 1
more In the future than In the past.
At the eleventh nour Mr. Chut chill
tvse and offered hlniclf In nomination.
"I hale been the captain of this ship
through its st iimy trip." he said, "nnd
t ask lo remain the captain until the
end and to lie allow. d the honor of going 1
down with it "
safe Mitritln for U'lllciii.
He went down In a vote of II to 2").
Three of tile niters cist blank ballots.
Mr, Wlllcox needed twenty-four votes to
be elected. lie therefore had a safe
mal-gin of tile
After the eleitiou Peter .1 ltr.nl. ec
leturv of Hie uriMtiized I 'olif et cue on
Industrial IMucatloii. a labor ..1 ganli.i
tlon. said that the election of Mr Will
cox gave John D. Rockefeller control of
the Hoard of IMucatioti. lie announced
that a blil would be Inttodiiciil int 1
the Ieglslatut" immediately calling foi
an Investigation f the Rockefeller
Foundation, the (leneral education lloanl
and the Public IMuc.itlon Ams'latloil
I Hiring the course of the preelection
debate rlnrges were freely made by Mr.
Churchill that the election was a ion- .
splracv and bv Rupert H Thomas of
the Ctiurchir faction that the lec.-ntly
appointed members of tile board hail
bought the'r appointments by a pledge
to Mayor Mltchel that they would lote
for Mr Wlllcox.
Immediately aft'v these chargts had
been made half a dozen of the new mem
bers of the board rose to say that they
had been Insulted and that they de
manded an apology. They all agreed, j
and with great vehemence, that they
had not pledged themselves t.. vote fur
any body.
Last evening Mayor Mitchel Vsii-.l a
statement cxpris-Mig In delight over
tne eleitiou reeults and admitting qu.i"
ll.111l.ly that he bad pleilu.-d the mi-iil..-r
In appointed to vote for Mi. Wlllcox
Mr. Mil. -hers new iipplntci- who
denied so vigorously lli.it the li.nl
pledged themselves to lote for Mr Ill
cox were Thomas lel. PranUIn II.
iSidiUngs, I M Ant-te.n. .Mis tto
M Oliinn. dial Ii- Can oil. W. H Kll
piltrlel. Tt-e election began In disiord I. ell
Ueore W Wlngate baling been made
pr.flih j.t pro tetn. and haling taken
tns place in a eort of throne , hair 1
l.tls a inniin nlai silenie fell uhiii the
.iverciowded loom.
1
Here r.llters H r. Ilrmlj.
Ill the Illlilst nf tills silenie. tile only
one bi the way during the meeting,
Peter .1. Rrady. a voting man of de.
lernuned counlenance. puslidl Ins wav
through th" thron; of "landing speita
loin nl the rear and called out
"Mr. Pre-ldent!"
i:erbody looked iiioiind. Mr Hr.idy
would have come light 011 Into the midst
ot the member of th" board If it had
not been for a stils-tauti.il rail meant
to prevent Just such emergencies. I
".Ur. Piesident," called Mr. Ili.idy. j
I'm here with a depulat 011 of Inbori
men 10 tie piesent
Mr. Ri.nl's voice was dniwuisl by,
groans from niembeis of Hie lioard and'
b clles of "llrilel"' tlolll ever.lboily
'tho didn't want to hear luni lien.
Willg.lte Ulio.-ki-d his g.ivel on Ihm desk.
Tlie tut moll s-ulisided eoiiiewli.it
"I'm here'" shouted Mr. Itr.idl, "to'
lie present when the Riiikefeller Intciests,
I are iiieithiown and to lend my moiali
sutipoit to their downfall by my pies.
; cm . I want to say " j
Hut Ml. Ilt.nly got no fiutlie-. Hen.
, Wing. lie's gae was pounding .til In.
1 ice-. int tattoo on the desk and the ineni-1
I berw were groaning theniselun lioarse. '
.1 u 1 1 u i 1 1 1- (mm sin- motion of Mr. Hnuli's,
lips he was still talking. Imt 10 one
could h.Mr him.
"Sergeant." -aid lien Wlugate a' l.it,
"either put that in. 111 out in make bun'
slop Milting."
1 Th" sergeant tried to put Inn' out,
but finding that It would be neiess.tiy
to put nut the thirty other labor dele.
! gates h.- lompiiimlseil, and Mr. Hindi'
I drew Ills remarks to a hiiety eliding.
Orilei baling been leeHtatilisheil, Rob.
eil L. Ilairlson rose unit placed Mi.
! Willcioc in nomination. Theie was untit
ling unusual in Mr. Ilanlsou's speech
,111' I'liiumeiiileil Mr. U illcnx for woil.
I done on the hoard nnd sat dnwii. Ilger
ton L. Wlulhiop, .Ii seconded the uomi
naliou. Then Mnlton Stem 10. e In pmpnsc the
other scheduled llollllucc, iSeolge It. (i.
lespie.
"Thein ate Sflfi.dnil uliiiul chililicn o
be cai ed foi by the lloanl of IMiieallou,"
he said, "and lo serie these pupils best
llu'lc must lie haruionv within the hoard. ,
lleoige (i. (illlesiile has been a leading'
member of the lloanl of l.'iluiatiou for
oler ten .leais, I'niler the able leader- I
ship of Pieslileut Cliillchlll he has ac-
coiiipllsheil mine ton aid good uilnilnls- '
tuition in the scliools than uuv oilier
man In tne imam, 111s snuggles liitin
can led him to clashes with the Major 1
I unit Willi uic nunc i.cgisiauue."
lloinlisliell I'l-oni Clinrcliill. '
Ml- Stein sat dim 11. Mr. Somem see.1
muled the lilllesple iiomluatloii. ,Mt I
IChiurhlll got up. 'I'o ciery one's ainaii. 1
liient Mr. -mil fill 1 1 nil mally asked Mr,
I lilllespic, wliose niimlnatioii he had ad
vocaled, to wllhdniw and in his place
oh'eled himself,
"1 liaie not lisi n to second Ihn nomi
nalioil of nil 1 ol league," said Mr.
Cliuichlll, "and I inn not going lo i,.l-
of the Issue iv hu h I niliocale. That has
I been ileailv ill aw 11 b Mi, Sleiu. I am
'going to tell the lioaid light now thai I
'lielieie that Mr. i!lllciiic has not the
. sllghli'st 1 lumen nf being elccled, This
Con I Pi u' if 011 Fuuith I'nie,
HOUSE RUSHES
THROUGH TWO
DEFENCE BILLSic
To Eiiiip Two Xavy Yards'
and Increase Naval ;
Academy Corps.
PACIFISTS SIT STILL:
NOT A IIOLL CALL
V tsinsoTov. Piti. 7 Two national
defeiue bills the llrst of the session
wen passed in the House to-lay without
the foimallty of it roll call. I
For some unexplained reason pacifist
members took to their heels when the J
question of preparedness came tip In con- j
1'n ti form and Interposed no opposition j
to the two measures designed to pave
the way for the big building programme
of the naval appropriation hill
niie of the bills passisl carried appro
priations tu equip the New York and (
Mate Island Navy Yards to bullii supir
dreailnoughts. The other provided for)
an addition to the corps of midshipmen t
at the Annapolis Naval Academy.
The navy yard bill, which Is regarded
as very Important by the Administration, 1
was passed by a xiva voce vote. The
othei was Ut through by a lotv or 153
tod, 1
All the big guns In the Houe with the
ixeeptlmi of the Democratic leader. Mr.,
Kltcliln, took p.ut In the debate, and all
declared themselves In favor of adtquate
national defence. Speaker Clark, 1'ncle ,
Joe Cannon. Republican Leader Mnnn,
chairman Padgett and many others who
are aillni atmg prepan illiess made ad-,
dresses, wlille th" pacifists held their,
peace 1
Kllchlii Keeps Ills Promlss-. I
The debate wa notable for many re.i- j
' a.ms in the ttrst nlace. Sneaker Clark
proclalinid his belief in picp.iredness 1
and announced that he would dlctss the
subject more fullv latr In the session. ,
Mr. Kitcllin. title to his pioiiile to the 1
President tint be would opioe the pro
gramme onh In his person tl capacity. J
lemain. d silent, ami all the "little navy" ,
members tenia. tied in their seats when
th.- vote was called for or. the midship
men bill. Speaker Clark ssld he hoped,
no inembei nf tin House would vote
aga.nst it.
No such appeal was made in the case .
of the 11.11 v .iiird bill, .let the pacifists
fatted to lift their voices against It and
did not ask for a record vote when It ,
was railed up for pass ige. - I
Tin- llrst bill pis-ed ill tin House .ip
propr..iti'.l i5(Mi.U"H foi the Mare Island
Nan Yard I $l'i.n'' for the New
York N.uy Y . t In order that they may
.it nine li.- put into shape to ru-h woik
on the siipi'idn-.tiliioughts authorized by
Ciiiigless at the last st-ssio!
Tin- measure was recommended by the ,
Seiretary of the Navy, who din-ited the
iitiiiitlon of Congress to the fact that
pltiale lorpoiatlous had submitted bids
for tlie wolk III eviess of tlie limit set
bv law, and that accordltigl the Govern- .
liient had decided to construct these ves.
sels 111 Us own .i.ilds lie urged that the
appioprlat'ons be made without delay In
older that building opeintiotis might In
stalled at the e.tlllest possible dale.
I ucrense of Midshipmen.
Tlie second bill proposes the appoint
ment of M0 additional midshipmen at
Annapolis, thus iniieasing tliejoips of.
that institution from l.lt'iT to 1,707
In tus address on the midshipmen hill)
Speaker I'lail. aigueil 111 favor of the 1
t.le.itliill of a ttallleil teserie of oltlcers 1
ai d iiieii. declaring tli.it h" believed the
Federal 1 to t ermueiit should extend 11I1I ,
for uilliiar.i training 111 the schools nnd
1 olleges of tile COUUU.V.
The Speaki t also said that lie favored
Mioit enlistments in the regular army
lu older that I11". or so trained men
should b lit forth eaih ear He an-
nuiiiu.-il .mud applause tli.it he' would
soon offer a bill enlarging the tadet
corps at West Point, and exptes-ed the
hop,, that then would be no opposition
to the lull
Ml- i'lail. di-claied that, ill his opin
ion, the fluted States should enter upon
a policy of building the most powerful
hip In th" world, cqulppisl with guns
of as loiu langc as any of those against
which the American licet might be called
upon to compete 111 time of war
I'niie .Im- Cannon strongly Intimated
that the Wilson Administration was en
gaged III making a ilemiinstratiou over
defence for political purposes. He S.llll
that if the Administration would tell
what was the right thing to do in tlie
wai of piipeiedness lie would be glad
In follow the lend nf the President. Re.
publican Leader Mann uigeil all mem
I. els. icgaidlcss of politics, to stand hy
the Piesident's defence programme. Mr.
Maun leiiiaiked uputi the absence fiom
debate of sin h Democratic le.nb rs as
Ml- Kilclim
speaker Curl. In Hie I'liil.
Speaker CI, irk got Into fie debate at
the outset of the ptoceedlligs. Itepre
sintalne Ilutli i- of Pennsylvania,
n.-iulier of tlie Naval Affairs Committee,
was 011 his feet, witli a dozen other
members I111.7.I1.J around and ih-ni unlitig
niisweis to all kinds of questions Itepre
seutallve Mutler began the debate with
the n.ti.1 Mild bill. Ill the midst of Hie
liplo.u the Spcakc! stiulleil down the
middle aisle.
"How Is it that in llngl.tinl they can
build .1 battleship so much quicker than
we ilo'."' Mr. Cl.nk asked.
"Ilecausii they gilc the mono)," an
swered Repiesent.itlie Rutlei.
"Do wn not itppiopriate the inonej '."
liskcd the Speaker.
"Yes," said Mr. Hiitlcr. "but we cut
dollar bills In two and weigh nickels,
while tho I'.ngllsh do not If we want
anything better we hale to pay the
pii'cn demanded."
"That Is true." said the Speaker, "hut
suppose we pild the full prlie, what is
the reason we cannot build a battleship
as quickly as lliiglaud can?'-
"Wo can,"
"c halo never done so,"
"i hale Inquitcd oltliially ami the. ti
fni malum will be lu the healings," said
Mr. Ilutler. "Wo will be able to show
this, that if o wi'l begin lo build and
take the inoiiev and push aside pilvato
coiisti'iiiiloii wo can build twent.i-twn
ships III two yen is. if we can II mt the
men to put on then..''
Rcpicscntative Ci.irriuer said that one
reason that llugllsh cousti uctloii time
was shorter was thit Die Pugllsli did
not Inclmle in the period allowed Tor
C'untiiiutii on Ihirii t'ayt.
Kitchener Shorn of Power;
May, Quit the War Office
en. Ifobertson to Issue All
Oovernnicnt Orders for
Military Action.
LOUD DKKBY MAY WW
XMW WAR SECHETAIIY
xocul t uhlr lietpnlch to Till. St
Lonpo.v, Feb. 7. The comparatively
tranquil atmosphere that has marked the
domestic political situation for some
weeks has given way over night to a
feeling of restlveness, and to-night po
litical London Is aflutter with exclti nient
and spi dilution centred upon Lord
Kitchener. K. of K.'s future Incumbency
in the oftlce of Secretary of State for
War seems again In doubt. This time,
unlike previous occasions, doubts are
based upon concrete facts, not gutssej
or political attacks,
A revolutionary change Ins Jut been
made lu the functions of the Secietary
for War. This change consists of a new
onlei whereby the Iirin-.li Chli f of Staff, 1
elen. Sir William R. Robertson, and not.
as heretofore, the War Secretary, "shall
be responsible for Issuing the orders of
the Hovtrninrnt legaidliig millt.'ir op
eration." This order, by which laud Kitchener
is practically superseib 11 m what has
been the foremost luni Hull of his otllce,
was at once taken up b the press as .1
substantial sign that tlie tl.tis of I 'all
Kitchener as War Secretary are definitely
numb, red, The Moil) sketch predh.ts
that he will probahlj leale the War
(Ullce "to undertake work of an Impor
tant char.11.tcr elsewhere." that Chief of
Staff !en. Sir William Robertson ptob-
ably will take over active direction of
tilt war, "without Interference except
fiom Cabinet as a whole," and that
a tliillan gifted with the Intricate and
essential ait uf organization will succeed
Kitchetiei as War Secietary.
KIdk Sees Lenders.
'In. Kin. leielved In mullein e tu-d.iy
Pietiini Aiinth, Sir Henry Jacknu audi
M.tjor-i ien. diaiies Kdwanl 1 .illwell, ac
cording lo a circular announcement. Spe
cial significant s ntt.ic.heil to the con
ference Ui-.iu-.il of tli- ressinslble tnlll
taiy positions is-cujiled by Hi.- thtee men
Itiellid Tlie Plemler Is President of
tin- Imperial Defence Committee, Sir
Henry Jackson tu First S-a Inird. whlb
lien. Callnelt Is Dim-tor of Military In
telligence ll was also leurm-d that the King had
a long ixinfeiviic" a few days avo with
Iird Kitchenei
It Is rumored that Lord Derby of re
cent tecrulting campaign fame is to be
come War Stcrctar '
Tin- general prediction is tint Lmd 1
Kill heller Will he -en to tlie .Sea! Last.
where the Turco-tiiiinan menace to the
Sue. Canal Is del eloping into a reality.
It Is pointed out here that 1-inl
Kitchener's power lias crumbled bit by
bit dining tin- last twelvemonth. l'tit
Lloyd lleorge. popular described as the
empties driving torce, was made Minis
ter of Munitions That aptlntu.iit de
lutved lend Kitchener of one of the vital
branches of bis original pioilnce of
work, although ostenslbli it i done
to "relieve him."
Then came last fall Pie Derby
lecniltliig campaign. The traditional
idol of the posters, K. of K., was 1.
phned b the Insurgent, lml Derby.
The lattei's inline Is-g.tn to I"' associ
ated with tli" ns-rultlng campaign, luni
Derby and not Karl Kitchener received
the ci edit f doing all that w.ik hu
manly possible In delalng conscription.
Kitchener's l'oe llnsj.
.Meanwhile rlio ft-s nf lelld Ulliiu'lier
kept to the campaign with unabated bit
terness tine of the latest attacks upon
SAYS GERMANS' HATE
STILLS HUNGER'S VOICE
Kimlisli Woman. Ileiiili-iiited.
Heclarcs People Are Con-
fident. Tliouirlt Needy.
.,,., ,1 ri if PftpnU-'. in Tin Si
LoMios. Feb. 7 Nearly S lm.ip..c.
Itat.d soldiers, many of them capliued
In the retieat from Mon. and i.patrl
a ted civilians arrived here to-dai from
1 lei many via Holland. ,
An educated woman among them, who
was head of a nursing home lu lleilln
before the w-.il. said that theie was ,,11
doubted'.y a shortage of ""vcr.il ucem
,les in lierm.itiy. I'"' that it was telt
mine in the province than In Herlui.
where the authorities see tiled d.-tei mini d
"to ketp Hiliies as m aily noiin.il lis pos.
""''she lc.lt lied, she Sllill. tliat till- pi ll
ule of Leipzig obtain onl.i the equivalent
,,f two thin slh-"s of bread a day, but
I, one that bv this tiieasiiie the supplies
will last Lamp ""' obtainable
and c.indles ale eight icnls apiece. Xn
tioilv expects butter and ll H often Im
possible I" st cure substitute such as
l.mi and oleomargarine.
Neatly ever.i one evades Hie icgiit.i
tln'ii pii'ihlbltlng the eating of meat on
two day a week bv buying b. fic-.'li.iiid.
Ill, tin' restaurant am olii.in 1 in nun-,
pli with the rule The same I I ue of
"fi Hess" days when eld y til. ns ' 'nl.
"Tie overwhelming ini'lldi n 1 I c-
tory." she says, "and 'lie bol'cf thht
Kiigi.tud I on her last legs prevent the
(ieininiis from feeling the plmh of fond
shoitiige. The Int red tf l.ngl.iul i
greater than ev. r. Franc i.ml ltmsla
i-e seldom metilioned. Nobn.l In ilcr
inany has tlm ellghtmt iloit'.i lull that
tho iiermans nie winning, hut them Is
far less bell ringing ind waving of Hag
than formerly."
A oiing nnin teleased from Itiililchcn
exri'.sscil siirpiise at these .sl.itenieuts
liecnise he said that thing then- wore
much beltei, the Hermans seeincil to Im
quieting dnwii and hud ceasnl their bad
licatnitilt.
st; viiiiviik ii.oitiitA i.ni.. :.n. r. 11,
illi.l 1 nllur line (el Irliln. In li.-n uiiilu-i -tort'
s-outli lim Staioril Ultue, liti H'v. j
-A4l
I " L T
Sir W. R. Robertson.
1 , . in was made by the WrrKI'j llmnHeti,
width ca ed tu 111 "too old" for his prt s.
lit otllce and uiged the Uoiernmeiit to
send him to the Near F.ast." where he lie.
longs, and where lie can do the best
Willi, '
Again, when l.lojd lleorge enteis-d
iln his nationwide roundup of lalsir
for tlie speeding up of the munitions
output, making speeches that shook
Kngiand from apathy Into action, Lloyd
lieorge tsise firm tin- most cordially de
tested man in tin- kingdom to the ped
estal of "the empire' driving power,"
While Lord Kitrheiiei lost i prestige.
Ilolit-rtsmi'n Jtlse Iti-lltlirUHtile.
(im Sir Wlllla'.r P. Robeitsin, K. ('.
V. O, K C. It., D S 11. the present,
Chief of Staff and through the new
onb-r In absolute control of the army?
dependent otdv l!sii the "Cabinet as a
whole," has had the most lemarkible
carter of any military chief In any of
the countries at war. lie rose to hs
pit-sent position from a private In the
Ninth Lancers, which leglment he Joined
as a boy of 10. To-day lie I known and
beloved by the llrltlsh ni my as "the
most democratic Cieneral," or "a demo
1 rat aa.ing democrats"
Kquippcd with 011K an elementary
t dm at. on. he invested lis pay of a
shilling a dav as a private In study
While groom. tig his horse or cleaning
Ills equipment he had Ills comrades
read Ilng'.lsh 1 1,-isslcj. to h'.m After
ten ,iears of service lie obtained .1 com
mission in the Thiid Dtagoon Suard at
the age of '.'it. Four ears later he was
assigned to the Intelligence branch ot
the yu.il tertuaster's Department In
Jndla. There he distinguished ht'tielf
In the lapld acquisition of the nitlvt
dialects, ,1 knowledge which proved In
valuable to his country He took part in
the Chltral campaign, was severely
wounded and won the D.stinguished Ser
vice order
Sir Williaai alfo won l.tuieU as ..
staff otllcer in the South African txun
paign and i-. 1 ! I n he was placed In
command of the Ai'm Staff College and
then became dnector of mliitar.i train
ing at the War iTTTice Hits first position
in the present war was yuartcrmaster
ener.il of th- llrltlsh expeditionary
force In Frame Hi- success m that
capacity ltd to his subsequent appoint
ment .is Chief of Stalf He Is e.ira
old
KAISER'S FIFTH SON
! WOUNDED BY .A SHELL
1
i I'l-iin-e Oscar of Prussia s Hit
j in Head and Tliijrli mi
Kasf Front.
.ci .il, t ttlil? Ii.,i,iet. to Till i
LoxiioN. Fell, 7 -A despatch fiom
Reriln sa s :
"It Is olllcl.illy stated lieu- th.it Print's
fi.sc.ir of Prussia, the Kaiser's tilth son,
his iiecii slightl" wtuitiil.il 'n III" head
anil the uppei pirt of one t'.ngh bv shell
splinter. 111 the lighting In th,. .astern
the. nie of war "
i Prince 1 1. ear of l'iussi sufieied a
si 1 ions attack of heat 1 trouble In a battle
In Frame in the fall oi 1 p 1 1 , iluiiiK tin.
ally st.igis of the lighting on Hie west-
1 tein fmni lie w.is attached to the
, he.nlqu.trlels of I he l. '1111. Ill Third Allll.l.
Last epllllg lie tl.lil . Ollipletelv lecovellii
Hum Ills .1 1 lii i. nt. winch at one time
I ttire.iteni d to be I .it.it. and tie iettirne.1
; to Hie west, in 1 1 mi I Theie lie had an
, oppnrulnitt in ohsiive tli,. fighting at
nie closest i, ume, and j.tst iiuiumu tie
aiistd i mild sensation lu itermany bi
liuhllslunt- a hook on "Tho Winter Hit.
tie ill the Ch.imp.igiie-.Fcbitill v ii to
M.ii.'li v. I'.iK, "
Tin- ahoie despatch Is thu tlr.t Indira
I K'n that he has me.mwh.le gone from
tlie western to the eastern fiont . The
Prune Is L1" years old i Hi tlie ilav war
w.i.s ilecl.neil he w.is mo-nan. ittcally
in.irrieil lo Countess Ina nm Itissevciu
1 , l i'tow. a bl'.lllllflll no ,.m mil of
myal in rt ii . In July of l,i,t ve.ir a son
w.is born to the couple
In i:f7 theie was much talk in Her
many about a leported plan of ih
Kaiser to semi the young Pilnce trs
llirv.ird I'mi eislty as ,t 1 1 ruin t nu
of the l-:miei-or'.s police, which began
with Ills desp ilclilng his brother, Piln.e
I lent nf I'lllssia, to the t'nited States
tu I !!:! The pi in was ilmppcl. how-
ev cl .
Pi in. e tisl(,r is tlie sc. ond son of the
Kni-cr to lie wniimli'il m the ,n, ih,
ntliei hiiiig Prince .lo.iclilui of Piiiksi.i,
wlio was stru I, bv ,i -In M on tin- vves.
ei-n 1'in'l oi Siqile'i m . P'l I
latent lilllr (lull ill. II e.tilri ii . r-
Ii ii ti-r iiii-iii
II. 1.1, llll .1
li.iii
lllll'l I'HT
, i -is I'll WU.I.s I. liLlimxi,.
Until Itrilrs. KiO llronla A4
IMItnr
LUSITANIACASE
IS HELD UP BY
THE PRESIDENT
Secretary Lansinjr Si ill
Waits tor a Smnnion.s to
White House.
D EX IKS THAT NEW
DE.MAXDS AlfE MADE
Takes Exception to He
marks Attrilnited to l'n
der Scc'y Ziinmerinann.
SEXATOIf STOXE SAYS
SETTLEMENT IS NEAR
Hernstorff Ts Relieved to
Have Soinetliiii'X Fp
His Sleeve.
WasiiincitoV, Feb. 7. Secretary Lan
sing Is still wnltltig for a summons from
the Whlto Hons,, to discuss with th
Presldint the latest proposals from Her
lln for a settlement of the Lusltanla
cnntioiersy.
Fntll the President gives tlie word
Secretary Lansing Is uiiahln to inform
tl.e elerman AtuKuadoi whether or not
termany's latest offer an bo accepted.
Tliere am still strong Indications that It
will at least form Hst basis of further
negotiations looking to a .settlement
At day Sis-retary Ionising waa x
liectlng an invitation from the Preal
lciit to conftr with him. During th
morning, however, the President wan
er.gag.-d with members ' Congress, and
In the afternoon he went autDinnhillns.
It was tecalled to. night ti.tt at the
i line tin- La-ltatil.i was sunk, wlun the
countiy was anxiously waiting to know
what lepre.seiitatlotis the Stale Depar'.
meiit would send to ilerlln, it wa scl
eral days Is'toro the President sent for
and conferred with Secretary Hiynn.
In Hew- of tho tmcertainty of the
President' attitude ottlclals nf the Htate
1 1. jiartment to-nlgtit advlrtsl ng.tinsi too
much being taken for granted one wny
oi another Aln-ady "hen- 1 being man
ifested tn White House circles a icwnt
liient against iestit.s emanating fiom
Herman sourr.. regarding the extent to
which the Hi rim memorandum does or
tloes not conform with the Ainerlt.in de.
m.iiiil.
A llelilnl by II r. I. Muslim.
Secietaiy Lansing, who had icfused
ti.-iettifoi- to comment on tlie.se rerrta,
ttsik exieption to-day to th" statement
attributed in Iterlm press despatches to
Fnder Sen-tan Zltniiierni.um of the
Ilerlln Fntelgn tltllco Hint the Pnlted
States 1 lovi nituent at tho last ninmeni
should hale prt-snnted new demand
which (lermany could not accent Com
menting on this MMtemeitt S.-cretary
Lansing dictated the following.
This Hovenuiient lias not Inrre.med
tlie deinaisls maiio in tho LunlLinia
, ase as set forth tn the note of May
13. June I' and July :M. I doubt If
Dr. Zlmmerjiiann over made, tins state
ment that new demands had been in
jected, bec.iun ho must ksow- tliat it
Is utterly false.
Following this tint Secretary ogam
stated that the situation w.-ut unclungnl
from what U. w.is when tho Herlln pro
posals were received.
Chairman William J. Stone of the
Senate Fore.trn Relations Committee, who
t.tllist ut the White Hons.- soon after this
etatement was made, left with a d stlnci
Idea ti'itt a M-Ulcnietit L in s gl t. He
said that his impression win that
the Lusltanla case "w.i pra 'l cilLi
settled" and that ho was not In
the least appieht tislt'o over ihe nutcomr
Thu fenator Horn Missouri ndded, how
ever, that then- may l -i further e.
change of notes between tills I iovcNimeni
and Iterlm. ,
persons in clo-i. touch with the (.er
man embassy conttnutd to cxppks th
iltniosl cotitlilen. e in an earn scmemem
on the bisis of icriu.iny'H lates1 rom
munlcatlon.
It ell son for Hela.
Sign .lb ant. perhaps, of 'hi! re.Lson for
the delay on the part of tin- Administra
tion In pissing judgment on the Herman
memoi.iiiiluni i the fact, ascertained lo
nlght, tint cert.i ti otllclals of the Ad
ministration are disposed to belli v that
Coiiui von Hi'instotlf hnx In reserve n
still motit accept ilile offer, should thu
I'llUed States teje.'t tho last proposals
Although the assurance ts conveyed
both fmni th" Herman Ihnbassy and
from Herhn. that (lenuany has made the
last possible com ession. It i.s recalled bi
these ntlicial tli.it similar as-iiraiire
had acciillip.iinid 'h" nrigm.it nffcr of
settlement In. Ill" bv Herill.l'.v ii Hi"
Arabic t ' . .
When, however. Ilns olfi r w i ll.itlv
lejei.eil, ilic H"l man A tuba s,nl' ir was
back at tin- Statu I icp.it tiiienl in les
than an hour with a new piopo.il meet
lug ab-olulelv tlie demand "f Hie I iuleil
Stales
That the Piesident m.iv h.in a sus
picton that Count inn Hnrti-t.i if i hold
nig back sninetliilig in Hi" pt.-. nt Mltti.i
tinn s suggested in nitaiii iiu.iricrs a
a possible oxpl.iu.itiini of S iim Sumes
st.iiein.'ti' that ilieie may ! -i ioihr
exchange.
As pieioi-ly st.tinl. Hie pun i,t t.i
ileteinilii'd by lii" Pusnleut is wlidli-r
I the l.iiigiiig'' tf'-d I't'tlin hi .ii'iiiil
ting li.ilnll'.i fai' th" kill'iu of i'o nnr -'cms
on board the l.ii-il.iin.t i nh ieit
I to in. blil" admission ih. ii 'ie art
lulu, b i ansed llieir de.uh w.is ill. gi'
IIIITercni f Oplnlmi.
I llijci 1 1 tits to the Use nf 11m wnl-'l '"
'legal' HeltnaliV lias sollghl i b- t
Ib.v ailmttt.ugih.it tin-i -e or v-.
I C.lllS 11J4 bll.llll JllS'lllls , lll-tl 111, I . .. ,.
ilcninlty. In tin- Slate I n p.n nv nl op'n
I mil seems In illlli f a- I.. W I .Ills
l.tiiguage used is suiii, h in io . i '.. . a
tiMin.il i giiitinii nf tin- pi.- ,i,- for
which the Fulled States h.i I., . u , n-
iciiilliig. ilia, ni ! wl. i.p . i't for
.the sinking of iiiiai tin ! in, i '..iriimeu
without warning, will, .huhciu . i dangsr
to nautral on bnatd am ui.'ai Thi
