ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
The 8un
Alwaya Shinea
Finest
Winter Climate
in the World
The Ariiona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL.
ft
SI
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, 'UESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 8, 191G
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 263
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
I
LI
I'
?
5,
BILL FOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
PRESENTED TO WATER USERS
Decided In Meeting of Board
of Governors to Ask Sec
retary Lane for a Cor
rection of it by Some
Millions
AS IT STANDS NOW
IT IS $11,000,000
Every Board and Body
Passing On It Added Ma
terially to the Figure;,
Reclamation Commission
Putting on Finish
The most momentous meeting in I
the history of the Salt River Valley ! js very like asking the court to an
AVater Users' Association was held nounce its decision before the attor
yesterday morning for the considera-! ney makes his argument,
tion of the report of the centra! cost j The attitude or the association is
review boaid fining the amount of re- j supposed In be known from the pro
payment for the cost of the Suit River ceedings of the Local Board of Re-
irrigation project.
The general nature of the report
hail been mide to the members of the
board ofjjovernors and the council of
the association so that there was a
larger attendance of members of the
association upon the meetings of both
bodies than I'sual.
This important subject was taken
up in the board of governors in the am transmitting herewith a copy of Water Users! Association and the
morning session, in the course of the tr,e r(.p0rt of the Central Board of j representative of the government as
transaction of routine business and Cost Review and a draft of public no- ' to what is the proper cost to be re
occupied all the rest of the session. I tj,.e Wivich it is proposed to issue at an pcljd the government by the water
Disappointing as the report had been, ' tariy date, concerning the Salt River j user;-.
the members of the board did not j Project. Disagreement as to Cost of Local
indulge in any extravagance of ex- Any exception that the association Boarc. The records of the sessions
pression, but there was a general be- j desires to m;.ke to this will lie fully of tne ,ocal i,oard SMOW that every
lief that a way would be opened to j considered, whether made in writing foatllI.e 0f construction and operation
overcome the findings of the report or oraUy, or both.! If exceptions are'.,nd ipaintenance was investigated
and the decision of the reclamation to be ,aiif j writing, the commis- with rt.mar!a,le thoroughness and
commission, the latter placing the sion Would be pleased to receive them industry by the representatives of
charges against the project at some- aB soon as possible. If the associa- , ))oth tn( Ret.ianuition Service and the
thing more than 11.000.000. I tion desires also an oral hearing, the ' .,. , rsers At its conclusion, an
It had been learned that the report j
of the central review board had fixed
the charges at a little more than ,ni3 ;learjng in the city of Washing
10,109,3tr, as against about J7,253,000 ton, and early advice is requested so
in the report of the local board of cost tnat pr0per arrangements may be
review. The greater figures of the made for the full commission to be
reclamation commission, making present.
charges of $64 an acre, therefore, were ( -pj-p commission would be pleased
not at om-e understood, but a letter ; l() n t'.iis matter settled at the
was read from Morris Bien, the legal rarijel;t practicable date.
i Jviser of the commission, in which, Yours truly,
lelying upon the case of Swygart j RECLAMATION SERVICE,
against Baker, the commission had not (yigned) By A. P. DAV IS,
only declined to make a reduction on : Chairman.
account of unnecessary construction, !
excess charges or experimental work, I
but had actually added something more
than $.;00.000 to the charges on ac
count of prospective construction work.
That the commission was unfamiliar
with certain phases of the subject
was shown in the refusal to allow a
deduction tor the O'Rourke equipment,
for which tho central board had al
lowed $15,000. Mr. Bien added that
if any part of the equipment which
had been charged to the Salt River
Valley project should be found to be
npplicaoie to anomer project, uus iio-
ject would be allowed credit for such
part of it as might be used. j
Mr. Bier, was unaware of the ver j
material fact that there is now no
O KourKe equipment, n nan naa a
valuation of $25,000 placed upon it by
the reclamation service and was later
sold as junk for $2,000.
Judge Kibbey supplemented a
statement concerning the report
by replies to various inquiries
and suggestions by members of
the board. Finally a motion was of
fered by E. J. Bennitt for the sending
of a delegation to Washington to lay
the case of the association before
the secretary of the interior, or. rath
er, first, before the reclamation com
mission ,and. if necessary, before con
gress as a last resort. Mr. Bennitt
suggested that Judge Kibbey head
men a committee of, the association
i.nd should be accompanied by Fred
A. Jones, who had been a member
of the local board of cost review.
Dr. Wilbur suggested, not in tne way ,he negotiations over me ,u.... , United States
of an amendment, however, that the disaster to a termination sat.sfac- .nta, advices receiveu today
officials ot the reclamation service be tory to the Lmted States Official lrter8 are to tne
sent for. to come to Phoenix so that indication or announcement w hethe r, expressions of op-
the investigation might be conducted the offer of the Berlin government is regarding the outcome of the
on the ground. Mr. Bennitt's motion satisfactory is expected soon lnere" j neKOtiationSi wnk.h have been heard
at length prevailed. It will take no after. . in certain official and diplomatic cir-
kss than a month to prepare the nec- j The president did not request Sec-l arg nQt witl,out foundation,
tssnry data for presentation to the retary Lansing to come to the White chairman Stone- f the senate for
interior department. ! House for a conference today and n relations committee declared af-
In the afternoon session the matter th conference which had been frrin!r .ith administration of-
was laid before the board of gover-
nors and the council in joint session.
(Continued on Page Five.)
THE 11D
STEiER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SiV FRANCISCO. I..T. .. I CO. I. 1
?0b, 7,
rr.,.- r. ;! x- ,.i t ir.n Cnmi.Hnv's
fast passenger Turbiner Harvard, in
ward bound from San Pedro
ran
inin an .nlf the steam schooner
Excelsior tonight in San Francisco
vw j. f,r The Fx-
celsior. outward bound in ballast
,.. ,b the starboard beam
and went down slowly, giving all
kun.i. omnia time tn find safety in
the launches that were quickly
io.ui.i A rennrt that one mem
t .'v.- . a miaKin could
not he confirmed
.n The Hnrvrml was
RAMS
undamaged.
Central Review
U. S. RECLAMATION' SERVICE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
Ofice of the Director. Jan. 15, 1916
Mr. John P. Orme,
President Water Users' Association
Phoenix, Arizona.
Dear Sir: Your letter of December
ISth concerning the hearing on the
cost of the Salt River Project was
duly received.
From this it is interred that the i
I association is not prepared 10 ue
heard on this subject until further in-
i formation is received from the com-
.;..;,. ,-.,,! ii decision This
lew, at which the association was
fully heard. The annual cost of the
project is also shown in the same
nroi pedinas. and the provisions ot
the law are open to all. ' The careful preparation for this hear-
However, the commission is willing j jng was the result in part of the nuni
to waive these technicalities and sub- j ber and complexity of the matters in
mit a tentative decision for your scru- ! controversy and in part to the wide
tinv Bv order of the commission I difference which exists between the
association is invited to state at what
date jt would be convenient to have
Nov. 19. 113
THE SALT RIVER PROJECT
jIon Krankiln K. I-ane.
Secretary of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.
Sir: The Central Board of Review
has received and carefully- considered
the majority and minority reports of
the Local Beard of Review of the
Salt River Project, Arizona, together
with the exhibits lilea wun uie it
port and tne Fiippieiiifiiiu. ,
state-
nts subsequently submitted by Mr
J(,nn p Orme, president of the Water j
yser3. Association of the project, anu
b Mr ' j..'red A jonea, representative
of tV.e l.oal Board of Review of the
Water T-sers' Asociation."
After a thorough study of these
documents, an inspection of certain
features of the work, and the taking
.of additional testimony regarding
U.!..,,n.r.ii conditions in the valley.
BELIEVE EARLY SETTLE1
LIMA CASE IS IN SIGHT
Republican A.
Leased Wire
Fel). 7.president
WASHINGTON,
wiison wm take up with his cab -
inet tomorrow ine aimi
. .
Ition which Germany hopes will bring
l)Ianned did not materialize. The sec -
retary expects to discuss tne lateaL
proposal witn me premuem "
INSIDE GOLDEN GATE
, The Harvard's steel prow cut into
tne excelsior s engine
Chief Engineer J. E
Dorwara or me
- , Excelsior was painfully burned about
me nanus cnu 15--. uj
steam.
A fireman and night watch-
man were also scalded but not ser
iollsly.
I The submerged Excelsior with only
smokestack and masts visible, floated
off on the tide and the tugs sent
out to
pected to have a long search as a
- heavy mg hianneiea tne na.
The Excelsior was a wooden ves-
sei anil was
built t Eureka in
1893.
IKS
Board's
Estimate Of The Cost
Ly two members of the Central Board
of Review, a decision regarding the
different matters in dispute has been
reached, and this report, embodying
our conclusions and recommendations,
:s herewith respectfully submitted.
Constitution of the Local Board.
The Local Board of Review consisted
of Prof. Thomas U. Taylor, C. E., of
Austin, Texas, chairman; Mr. F. W.
Hanna.- C. E.. of Ankeny, Iowa, rep-
reseniativo of the Reclamation Ser-
vice, and Mr. Fred A. Jones, C. E.,
of Dallas, Texas, representative of th-2
Water Users' Association. Professor
Taylor is professor of civil engineer
ing in the University of Texas; Mr.
Manna was formerly supervising en
gineer of the Southern Division of
the Reclamation, Service, and Mr
Jones is a well known consulting civil
engineer. All are able and experi
enced civil engineers, and two of the
members, .Mr. Hanna and Mr. Jones,
had given much preliminary study tohets. Mrs. Faust, who was arrested
the matters coming lietore the Doaru
agreement was reached as to six of
the seven findings submitted, out the
board was unable to agree on its most
important finding, viz.. the amount to
be repaid the government, and major
ity and minority reports on this mat
tei were submitted.
Costs.' The majority report, signed
i by Frof. Taylor and Mr- Jones, nnus
that the total costs of the project to
June 1, IS 13. w.-s $13,100,500.00.
In this are included operation and
maintenance charges for several
years, during which time considerable
revenue was received from water
rentals, income from power plants and
from ariou3 other sources.
The majority report finds, the
amount of these revenues and credits
t i,e $2,::,450.no
It finds that the books
and records show de
fective construction,
excessive expenses and
bad management, and
that because of this
there should be elimin
ated and deducted from
th total cost' the sum
of $3,537,809.00
Or a total reduction of..$ 5.847,2590
Making a total
repaid
cost to be
$ 7,253.241.00
(Continued on Page Threel
row, and it is believed in Teutonic
I diplomatic
circles that Count von
. . r it ii n . , . , omhuiiuonnr
j de
. partmeni some ume uumiS
v if;mrt nf the decision
'ficials that he believed the ca?e was
..practk.ally settled."
i lt was athoritativelv said at the
! state department that the position of
the government today in regard to
the -Lusitania case was identical with
the position taken at the time the
last note was dispatched to Ger
many. Secretary Lansing flatly de
nied the truth of a statement at
tributed in press dispatches to Dr.
Alfred Zimmerman, German under
secretary of foreign affairs, to the
effect that "new demands" had been
made in the case at a time when the
German government considered the
ngotiations virtually were at an end.
The German view as represented
here is that the agreement now of
fered goes as far as German offi
cials consider possible toward meet
ing the views of the United States.
Germany has agreed that reprisals
must not be directed against any
other than enemy subjects. It has
become known that the Berlin gov
ernment expresses the hope that it
may have the opportunity to cooper
ate with the United States in some
action looking toward freedom of the
seas before the end of the war.
1EBT IF
S. P. WON'T HAVE
TO SELL ITS LAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7 The
United States circuit court of ap
peals decided today that the South
ern Pacific company cannot be forced
to sell thousands of acres of land
acquired under the congressional
grant of 1871 at $2.50 an acre. The
question was presented to the court
on a petition of Geoge S. Fullin
wider, who filed upon a half sec
tion of land in the Imperial valley
and then demanded that the South
ern Pacific accept $2.50 per acre. He
had also lost his case in the lower
courts.
The court held that the rule that
the company should sell the land at
$2.50 per acre applied to the grant
made the same year to the Texas
Pacific railroad but not to the South
em Pacific of California, the origina
grantee.
It was said here that several hun
dred claimants to railroad lands
would be affected adversely.
o
PASTOR WOUNDED
BY IRATE WOMAN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SHERMAN, Tex., Feb. 7. Rev.
H. M. Cagle. a widely known north
Texas Baptist minister, was shot
and probably fatally wounded here
late today by Mrs. Annie Faust, wife
of Finis Faust, a farmer who lives j
near Denison, Tex. Charles Barton, I
a by-stander, sustained a flesh wound
in the left arm from one of the bul-
immediately after the shooting, which
took place on the public square, was
released on $1,000 bond and returned
home.
Mrs. Faust, who it is said, came to
Sherman today on a shopping trip,
had just left a local store when she
encountered - the minister, and ac
cording to bystanders, pulled a re-
olver from her handbag, firing five
shots into his body.
When arrested. Mrs. Faust is al
leged to have said that the minister
slandered her and she shot in re
venge. o
MENTION LORIMER
IN BEALE CONTEST
republican A. P. Leased Wire
SANTA BARBARA. Cal.. Feb. 7.
A national political twang was given
to the second John E. Beale estate I
contest today, when the attorneys for
Mrs. Beale attempted to show that
Arthur K. Stearns, one of the con
testing nephews, hr.d been connected
with the Senator Lorimer set in Il
linois. The attempt was made to se
cure an admission from Mr. Stearns
that when be came west a couple of
years ago to see Mr. Beale. that he
traveled on a pass furnished by
banker, of the I.aSalle Institution
made prominent in the Lorimer in
vestigation. Mr. Stearns denied the
implication, but said he had borrowed
the money for the trip from Mr.
Ward.
Mrs. Natalie Sawyer, of Montecito,
today testified to a conversation she
had with Mr. Beale a few months be
fore his death, in which he expressed
unhappiness in his married life.
o
KING CONFERS
WITH PREMIER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Feb. 7. A court circu
lar announces that the king today
received in audience Premier As-
quith, Sir Henry Jackson and Major
General Charles Edward Caldwell.
Mr. Asquith is president of the Im
perial Defense Committee; Sir Henry
Jackson is first sea lord. General
Callwell is director of military intel
ligence. Special significance is believed to
attach to the conference of the king
with three such important chiefs of
the war operations. It is also noted
that Earl Kitchener, secretary for
war. had a long audience with the
king a few days ago.
o
S. P. OIL LAND
CASE CONTINUES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7 The
government Southern Pacific oil
land cases were resumed h,ere today.
Southern Pacific attorneys continued
to cross examine A. G. Nichols, a
geologist, who gave testimony last
week that certain evidences of oil
were present on the surface of the
Southern Pacific lands.
Nichols admitted that his map of
the lands were incorrect in severa
instances. Counsel for the company
considered this admission a victory
as, thev said, the government was
going to predicate testimony of ex
perts upon this map.
electrical service to the residents in
o
PRINCE OSCAR GETS
SECOND WAR WOUND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
AMSTERDAM, (Via London) Fell,
7. Prince Oscar of Prussia. fifth
son of Emperor William, has been
slightly wounded in the head and on
the upper part of the thigh by shell
splinters during the fighting in the
Eastern war theater, according to
Berlin official report received here.
Prince Oscar was wounded at Vir
ion, Belgium, in September 1914.
He was ill for a long time and was
declared to be suffering also from
an affection or. the heart. He re
turned to duty in the field in No
vember, 1914, narrowly escaped cap
ture the following month in the
fighting in Toland.
PARTY LINES
FIGHT FOR ADEQUATE
NATIONAL DEFENSES
Opening Gun Is Fired In
Congress When House
Passes Two Important
Navy Measures Without
Dissenting Vote
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 Speaker
Clarke and Republican Leader Mann
fought side by side in the house today i
' for adequate national defense. With
party lines obliterated most ot tne
members followed their leaders and '
two navy measures passed, without a
dissenting vote. One, to provide for ,
adding tnree nunarea miasnipmen to i
me entering class ai -tnnapons next
July, passed 173 to 0 and the other to
equip navy yards for construction of
battleships numbers 43 and 44, passed
without a roll call.
Mr. Ma.nn tried to put the anti pre
paredness advocates on record by call
ing for a division on the naval acad
emy bill, but there were no negative
responses.
The appearance of Speaker Clark on
the floor to champion preparedness
measures aroused wide interest. Rum-
ors persisted that he would take active
charge of the fight to increase the
aimv and navy Majority Leader Kitch-
iu having joined the opposition.
Immediate improvement of the navy
by designing new battleships along the '
lines of the best now in use, doubling
mltshin nf taih InnnnMk ami
' . , jj...
est Point, creation of many addition-
. . j ,
al regiments for the army and the
.
cu,v w
reserve were among the suggestions ,
made by the speaker. He said he ex- '
pected to discuss soon thei subject of
preparedness generally.
Mr. Mann reiterated his previous
c i 3
P!eas ioi a. huBei a.o.y auu navy .u
3ided in maneuvering the bills to pas-
sage. "This is not the time for enm-
ination and recrimination" said he. "It
is not the time for finding fault with
that which has been. It is the time
for all to join hands for that which
may come.
The debate went far afield from the
measures under consideration, extend-
ing to the general subject of military
preparedness. The unusual sight of ,
tne speaiter ana tne minorny leauer
hauling togetuer lor administration
measures while "the majority leader snt
silently in the back of the house, at-
tracted crowds to tne galleries, ana ..r voted against the amendment!
members rushed to the floor from their first," sai,j Senator Smith today,
offices and committee rooms. ! "because I am opposed to the treaty.)
Mr. Clark urged haste in getting new i a-m opposed to the I'nited States'
battleships into commission. He asked paying one dollar to Colombia. But I
Chairman Padgett of the naval com- when I saw how close the committee!
mittee why it would not be a good stood on the issue. I concluded that I
plan to pattern the two battleships fifteen million dollars was ten mil-1
numbers 43 and 44 after the best Unit- Hon dollars less than twenty-five and !
ed States ship afloat and get them I changed my vote. Now I am glad
completed quickly. 0f it because I see it has started a!
"Simply because" Mr. Padgett said, row." I
"tne chief of the bureau of construe- Tomorrow Senator Stone, 'chairman I
tion told us that he had plans worked of the foreign relations committee,
out that would make decided improve- plans to call up the Nicaraguan $3.
ments against torpedo attacks." 000,000 bill providing for acquire-!
"Why do they not put those plans me'nt of an option on the Nicaraguan
into operation?" the speaker continued."
"They will," Mr. Padgett said, "as
soon as they get authority provided in
this resolution."
"We shall all die of old age before
they are completed at this rate," the
spciker responded.
Representative Padgett told the
house that three ships the Oklahoma,
Nevada and Pennsylvania regarded as
the three best in the work at the time
they were laid down, would be com-
pleted and put in commission during pnlicv for somewhat larger and more of Nicaragua, but who was put into
thic year two of them in the early belligerent nations, and a third pol- power and remains in power, by vir
summer one in the autumn. icy for a very strong and powerful , tue crdy and alone of our govern-
If any emergency should arise" he
nd.led -'.q very small resolution of con-
gress carrying the necessary appropri
ation could provide for extra ships."
Representative Cannon of Illinois,
created a stir by asking if the talk of
preparedness was a sham performance
for campaign purposes. Later he said
he did not intend the remark as a critl-
cis.B of the president.
The gentleman was trying to put in
a nice way a very nice criticism of the
president, but he did not get away with
it," Representative Fitzgerald of New
York said.
"The president of the United States,"
answered Mr. Cannon, "is my president
as well as your president, and if I can
J it"" VecessVrvto do anyfh n" I
II 11 is necessuij 10 . uo an min, 1
stand readv to help him do it."
"If we ever have another war, which
I do not believe we will have, if we at-
tend to our own business," Speaker
Clark said, while advocating the naval
academy bill, "what we will need more
(Continued on Page Ten)
MAY BID SERIES
L
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
YUMA, Ariz., Feb. 7. That plans for
the construction either of a large dam i
d
or a series of dams across the upper
Colorado river to prevent floods, was
under consideration by officials of the
United States reclamation service be
came known here today when it was
learned that a number of surveyors
had been sent along the river to ascer
tain what cultivated areas would be af
fected by such work.
The survepors, it was said by local
officials, would select available loca
tions for dams and mark the lands ad-
GONE IN
i CHRISTMAS FROLIC 1
LEADS TO DISMISSAL
DAVIS, Cal Feb. 7. Seven j
j students at the University of Cal-
I ifornia farm located near this
city have been dropped from the
rolls by Dean H. E. Vannerman.
j One of them is the son of a I.os
Angeles millionaire. It is re-
ported that a Christmas eve
dance attended by six unchaper-
oned girls from Sacramento,
I which ended in a midnight tour
of ttie boys' dormitory, resulted
j in the dismissals. It is stated
I one of the mothers of the boys
was told the story and made a
pprsonal investigation
q
TREATY CHANGES
DO NOT PLEASE
SEITEJEIS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Feb. 7. Approval former sector caused powerful explo
has not been given by President Wil- sions northeast of Arras and a great
" " -"" " ,
.hy no means unanimously in favor of
. , . .. . , , .
amendments to the Colombian treatv
,j,t i.v.
reported last week by the senate for-
. rp,.ltions rnmmi,tpp.
It developed today that a strong ef
fort probably will be made in the
senate to defeat the changes which
would reduce the proposed indemnity
to Colombia for the partition of Pan-
ama from $25.0O0.0O0 to $15,000,000
'and tQ revjse hp wordi of the ex.
pression f)f regret
i Mimster .Betancourt of Colombia,
ca,Ie(J on Secretarv rising during
the day am, was assured that tho
( president ,lad not given his approval
Q ejther of the amendments. Later
it became known tTiat many of the
democrats of the foreign relations
commiUee passed the changes.
A republican. Senator Smith of j
Michigan, by changing his vote on
the tie in tne committee. -tarried the
amendment reducing the indemnity
j,y $10,000,000.
Canal route and naval bases on the
Fonseca bay.
j Senator Borah proposes to move
jthat the Nicaraguan treaty be con-
sidertd in the open senate, but ad-
ministration leaders are opposed to
breaking precedent of discussing
treaties in executive session. Today
Senator Borah issued a statement on
the subject.
"Have we one foreign policy for
small and weak nations, and another
nation?" he asked. "For four years
, our warships have shadowed the
cnpitol of Nicaragua and for four
yoE.rs our marines have been camped
BRITISH AND FRENCH CRUISERS
PATROLUIIA CAPES COAST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEWPORT KEWS. Va Kelt 7
prjtis'i shipmasters in a statement to-
that two allied cruisers-
on riri.Sj, nli th.r French a
I ;", .C" " I. .L. ',,.:
patrolling the coast otf the Virginia
capes. Since there is no probability
thni tho nurmnn nrivft Annum will nt
t . , f,rP mnrin men
t;lke ,he liresenre of tne' warships to
that th ,, ..., cv
pect other prizes captured by the mys-
OF DIS TO
. joining these locations that would be
1 "sed as the basins for the proposed
resorvoirs 10 noia 1100a waters in
!
cheek. Estimates will be made later
as to the value of land necessarv for
j this use.
A survey of the damage to the levees
in Yuma valley by the recent floods
has been completed by the reclamation
oraciais. 1 111s snows tnat laO.000 cubic
yards of material will be necessary to
make necessary repairs. '
The Southern Pacific railroad began
today the reconstruction of 3,000 feet of
levee which was washed out on the
imperial valley side of the river.
C0L010
FIGHTING lit i
ill ZONES IS
AT STANDSTILL
Except On Front In France
and Belgium Little Fight
ing Has Been Reported
In the Various War
Zones
KIEL AUTHORITIES
FEAR AIR RAID
Populace Has Been Noti
fied That Steamship Siren
Will Give Advance No
tice of Raid and Warned
Against Exposure
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Except on the front in France and
Belgium, little fighting has been re
ported in the war zones. Paris tells of
the bombardment of German posi
tions near Hit Sas and Steenstraete
in Belgium, the destruction of a Ger
man block house between the Oise and
Ais.no and of effective work by French
batteries in the Artois and Cham
pagne regions. French shells on the
nre ill me cnampagne near vnune-
range.
The Germans have been busy with
their artillery against the British
around Loos, while the British in re
turn have bombarded German trenches
near the Ypres-Roulers railway.
The Vienna war office reports the
situation unchanged on all fronts
where Austrian troops are fighting.
Nothing has come through concern
ing the reported concentration of
troops of the Teutonic allies in the
region of the Greek border.
A Copenhagen dispatch indicates
that authorities at Kiel are fearful of
an alleged air raid there. The popu
lace has been notified that a steam
siren will give advance notice of a
raid and that in case raiders come
the people should not unduly expose
themseh es.
The semi-official Overseas News
Agency of Berlin says there are now
1.429,171 prisoners of war in Germany.
This number, it is declared, does not
include prisoners the Germans left in
Austria-Hungary.
A London newspaper is authority
for the statement that Earl Kitchener,
British secretary for war. particularly
will leave the war office to undertake
work of a more important character
elsewhere. If Earl. Kitchener should
leave, the newspaper adds. Sir William
Robertson, chief of staff, will actively
direct the war and a civilian will be
come secretary for war.
For the second time during the war.
Prince Oscar of Prussia, fifth son of
Emperor William, has been wounded.
Russian Official Statement
PETROGRAD, Feb. 7.. (Via London.
Fh. S 1:32 a. m The following of-
(Continued on Page Two)
in the White House grounds of that
j notion. Now, at the end of that
j time, we are seeking to force a
treaty with that nation, and the only
representative of Nicaragua, is a
so-called president of the republic,
which doe's not represent the people
merit. The sole authority for his
acting in behalf or .Nicaragua are
'the marines
Managua."
who are camped in
terious German raider to be brought to
IH.nmmnn Tr.orl
PnlWtor .,m h.
J)ad reveJ no word from Wa,hing.
1 ....
'" concerning tne status ot me Ap-
pam or of the thirteen Germans for-
j merIy civil ,,rlsonera o Engiand who
requested that they be allowed to land
from the Appam.
The Appam today was allowed to
load 200 tons of coal for port use.
Berg U Identified
BERLIN (Via London) Feb. 8 Lieu
tenant Hans Berg, commander of the
prize crew which recently took the
British steamer Appam into Hampton
Roads,- has been identified as Hins
Berg of Apenrade, a naval reservist
and master in peace time 0f the tramp
steamer Gamma, belonging to the Ali
renkiel and Clausen line.
Berg served as a one year volunteer
in the navy and was called to the col
ors at the outbreak of trie war and pro
moted to be a lieutenant six months
ago.
Wbile on a furlough last year Berg-"
told his wife in Apenrade not to be dis
,
turbed if she heard nothing from him
j in a long time. As a matter of fact h
wife has had no letter from him and
been unable to write him for manv
months as his address was unknown.
The German steamer Gamma is a
vessel of 2.340 tons. She was last re-
ported in port at Rotterdam.
