MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Feb. 2
25.23 !
WEATHER
Arizona Fair , ,
MEM8CR ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL 18. NO. 218.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 8, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
V
APPROVAL OF
WILSON IS
NOT YET
GIVEN
'
NAUGHTY! NAUGHTY! I
Strong Effort Expected to De
feat Reduction of Indemnity
to Colombia from $25,000,-
0C0 to $15,000,000.
i
SENATOR SMITH AD
VOCATES REDUCTION
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 7.
Immoral carvings on a Burmese
totem pole brought here by the
Rev. John Cope, as a present for
the Rev. E. J. East of Oakland,
both missionaries, were freed of
sinfulness by means of a chisel
handled by customs officials.
Rev. George Burlingame, rep
resenting Cope, and now return
ing to his home in Portland,
Oregon, quickly agreed to the
censorship when he Raw the
pole. When pruned to propriety
the pole will be delivered to its
missionary owner who has not
yet seen it.
Senator Eorah Seeks to Over
throw Precedent and Con
sider Nicaraguan Treaty in
Open Senate.
WASHINGTON', Feb. 7. Approval
has not been Riven by President and
the Democratic Senate is by no means
in favor of amendments to the Col
ombian treaty reported last week by
the Senate Foreign Relations Com
mittee. It ' developed hat a strong
effort probably will be made in the
Senate to defeat changes which will
reduce the proposed indemnity to the
Colombia for the partition of the
Panama from $25,000,000 to $15,000,
000 and to revise the wording of the
expression of regret.
Minister Eetancourt, of Colombia
called on Secretary Lansing during
the day and was assured that the
President had not given his approval
to either of the amendments. Later
It became known that many Demo
crats on the Foreign Relations Com
mittee had passed on the changes.
Republican Senator Smith of Michi
' gan by changing his .vote on the tie
in the committee carried the amend
ment reducing thj indemnity by $10.
000,000. Tomarrow Senator Stone,
chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee plans to call ip the Nica
raguan three .million bill providing
acquirement of an option on the
Nicaraguan canal route 'and naval
base on Fonseca Bay.
"I voted against the Colombian
amendment first," said Smith, "be
cause I was opposed to the treaty. I
opposed the United States paying a
dollar to Colombia. When I saw bow
close the committee stood on the
issue, I concluded that $15,000,000 was
$10,000,000 less than $25,000,000 and
changed my vote. I am glad because
I see It started a row." Senator Borah
proposed to move that the Nicaraguan
treaty be considered in open Senate.)
Administration leaders are opposed to
the precedent of discussing treaties in
executive session.
IS
10 LEE THE
CAB NET
London Newspaper Authority
for the Statement that Pre
sent Secretary of War will
Take more Important Post
CIVILIAN WOULD THEN
BECOME HEAD OF ARMY!
GEN. PEREZ EXECUTED.
PRESIDIO, Feb. 7. General Perez,
a de facto government officer, charged
with deserting the Ojinaga garrison
and endeavoring to join a1 Villa band,
was executed at Mesquite by the de
facto government soldiers, according
to advices here.
Perei escaped with five soldiers.
One of the soldiers was ordered back
by Perez to cut the wires and reported
the desertions The capture of Perei
followed.-
$64 PER ACRE.
PHOENIX, Feb. 7. Farmers living
on tracts ambraced in the Salt River
Valley Irrigation Project will be re
quired to pay $64 an acre toward the
project's cost, according to estimates
of the central cost review board ap
pointed by Secretary Lane. One hun
dred and seventy two thousand acres
are subject to the payments.
CHINESE CAPTURED.
LOS ANGELES. Feb. 7. After an
automobile chase of 100 miles the Im
migration officials apprehended two
white men and four Chinese. The
latter are said to have been smuggled
into the United States from Mexico.
The chase exended from Chula Vista,
fifteen miles south of San Diego, to
Temacula. The sextet was captured
when their auto mired in the roads.
CALIFORNIA FILES SUIT.
SANTA BARBARA, Feb. 7. The
state of California filed suit In the
superior court under the antialien
land law to nullify the title of Gin
Fook Bin. a subject of the Chinese
republic, to property In the local
China-town valued at $18,000. Thts
is the first action. by the state under
the law that caused an international
discussion when before the legisla
ture and threatened to lead to a mis
understanding between the United
States and Japan.
I Ar;fff wJrk Ft.!
ception of French Artillery
Bombardments. Kiel Fears
Attack by Aeroplanes.
LONDON, Feb. 7. Except in
France and Belgium little fighting
is reported in the war zone. Par.
is tells of the bombardment of
German positions In Belgium and
the destruction of a German block
house between Oise and Aisne and
effective work by French batteries
in the Aatois and Champaign re
gions. The French shell at Artois
caused powerful explosion north
east of Arras and a great fire near
Challergane. German artillery has
been busy against the British a
round Loos, and the British bomb
arded the German trenches near
the Ypres-Roulers railway.
Vienna report the situation un
changed on the Austrian front.
There are no development con
cerning the reported concentration
of the Teutons in the region of he
Greek border. The Copenhagen
dispatch Indicated the authorities
?t Kiel were fearful of an air raid
Thepopulace has been notified
that a steamer siren would give an
abundance of notice.
A London newspaper is authority
for the statement that Secretary
of War Kjtchener will probabl
leave the War Office to Undertake '
work of a more important charac
ter. Should Kitchener leave, the ,
newspaper adds, Sir William Rob-'
ertson, chief of staff, wlil actively
. direct the war. Thus a civilian
would become secretary of war.
Prince Oscar, the fifth son of
the Kaiser, has been wounded a.
second time. ' ' '
SLINGSBY SUIT. ARGUMENTS.
LONDON. Feb.. 7. The hearing in
the Slingsby elgitimacy suit were con
cluded in the Court of Appeals. Judg
ment was reserved. ..The Arguments
have been in progress since January
17. The case involves the question
of whether the infant born in ' San
Francisco and declared to be the faw
ful son of Charles Klingsby and' bis
wife, is the rightful successor .to the
Slingsby estates in England. A California-court
held, the child to be the
legitimate heir.
OFF VIRGINIA CAPES.
NEWPORT NEWS. Feb. 7. British
shipmasters reported that two of the
allies cruisers, one British and the
other French, are patrolling off the
Virginia Capes. Since there Is- no
probability of the German prize
Appam would put to sea in the near
future marine men take the presence
of the warships to mean that the al
lied governments expect other prizes,
captured by the mysterious German
raider, to be brought to Hampton
Roads. Collector Hamilton said he
had received no word from Washing
ton concerning the status of the Appam.
Hopis and Navajo Indians Threatening to Go On
Warpath and Massacre Whites at Tuba
Many Americans in Northeastern Arizona Fear a General Uprising Among Indians. Trouble
Fomented by the Killing of An Indian at Lees Ferry When He Resisted a Peace
Officer. United Stat es Marshals May Go to the Res ervation to 'Investi
gate the Trouble. Few Details to be Had.
FLAGSTAFF, Feb. 7. In-Wans of lha Navajo Reservation in Arizona- are Threatening to kill all the
white inhabitants of Tuba and burn the goveiiimeut buildings, according to William Dubree, superintend
ent of construction of the Indian school at Tuba.
Dubree said the whites ar Tuba have a small amount of guns and ammunition. The Indians began to
foment trouble January 26 when one of their number was killed by a police officer, alter the Indian resist
ed the police. Some of the Piutes who went on the warpath at BlufT, I'tah, a year ago also began agl- ,
tating a disturbance among the Piutes. ( ;
PHOENIX. Feb. 7. Five thousand residents of the northeastern portion of Arizona are alarmed over
( the Hopis tribe of the Navajo Indians threatening to go on the'war path." according to information re
" ceived tonight. Approximately twenty five thousand Indians are living on the reservation but it is not known
what proportion i them is involved in the threatened uprising.
The Hopis became angered, it Is said, when one of them was killed several days ago by the police. The.
Indian opened fire when the officers attempted to arrest him and was killed by one of the officers a mom
ent later, according to 'Information received by Thonia3 Flynn, United States district attorney.
The shooting occured near Lees Ferry, a crossing on the Grand Canyon, about fifty miles south of the
Arizona-Utah boundary. Word of the threatened trouble- was first brought to Flagstaff by an Indian runner.
Although instructions from United States authorities at Washington are being awaited by local " officials,
before taking any action, a number of deputy United States marshals are preparing to make the journey to
the reservation to investigate the reports. Efforts ane being made to have a troop of cavalry from El Paso
accompany the marshals, it is said. - .
ESCAPES TO ARIZONA.
NACO, Arizona, Feb. 7. Ci
ccnio I-ares, rbout noon today.
sht and killed mother Mexican
on the Sonora side of the Inter-'
national side l the boundary.
Instead of attempting to escape
by going into the San Jo
mountains the i:iuu jumped upon
a horse ami crossed the boun
dary and his present where
abouts' are unknown. ' '
The American officers nV
along the border have been no
tified to look out for the Mexi
can. It is said Lares has rela
tives in Douglas and may have
attempted to reach that place.
D
0
ARK
UNITES fflffl
i WHAT WILL CARRANZA DO CATHOLIC CnURCH IN MEXICO?
i ;:!: n: jfe: ; ;
MbM? - - - "- -
7 ( .($-M.X-1 -- : I Jam A '
V. . " I . ': ft ' '- .!. ; . -- : . - .. .
. -. .- . :., ;-rt-- ., :..
TvrVr'. ' . ft 0l'tv- -,f. i
HARlfftRD HAS
CQLLISIOn
Coast Passenger Steamer, with
OPPONEHT
niiti
House Sees Speaker and Mi
nority Leader Side by Side
in Effort to Secure Adequate
National Defense.
MAJORITY LEADER
KITCHIN OPPOSED
"Time for All to Join Hands
for that Which May Come,"
Mann Declares; Uncle Joe
Cannon Creates a Stir.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 7. Speaker
Clark and Republican Leader Mann
i fought side by side in the House for
t)-li.A.
m t r r 1 "-'i" '
many on OOara, Rams ana were obliterated and most members
Sinks Steam Schooner, Ex-'followed their leaders. The tw0 navy
celaior ' in Fop ' ' measures passed without a dissenting
' v . rt : .1 . v. .
vote.
Of
-it7 tt?t t-tji To tit" ' three hundred midshipmen to the en
ONE 21 IS2.VSHI I taring clas, at Annapolis in July. The
I U I1AV L. UKUVYlLU
Heavy Mist Hinders the Work !
other is to equip navy yards for con
struction of battleships forty-three and
forty-four. Mann tried to put anti-
of Rescue Launches. Pas-: -reparedna x1 n Tori
p . . .. I j calling for a decision on the naval bill.
T. . .V f lav"to"Jr There mere no negative responses.
The appearance of Clark on the floor
championing preparedness measures
aroused interest. Rumors persisted
I that Clark would take charge of the
I fight to increase the army and nary,
majority leader Kitchin having joined
j the opposition. The unusual sight of
,the Speaker and minority leader bat
: tling together for Administration
Uninjured in Mishap.
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 7. The
Steamer Harvard, with many pas
sengers aboard, rammed the steam
schooner Excelsior inside of San
Francisco Bay. Twenty-one of her
a crew were landed when it sank.
One of the crew is said to be miss
ing. The Harvard was standing
by, not seriously damaged.
The Excelsior sank. The steel '
, prow of the Harvard cut into the
Excelsior's engine room. The
chief engineer' of the Excelsior
was painfully burned by escaping
steam. The fireman and night
watchman were also scalded.
The submerged Excelsior, with
only its smokestack and masts
visible, floated off on the tide.
Tugs were sent to find the dere
' lict and it is expected they will
have a long search as a heavy fog
blanketed the bay. The Excelsior
wss a wooden vessel. It was built
in 1893.
Top, General Carranza and the Holy Metropolitan church, Mexico City; bottom. Quints Carolina at Cnihuahaa.
The Catholic church was bitterly opposed to the recognition of Carranza, because it claimed that he had
persecuted priests and nuns and confiscated its property. The question now arises: Will Carranza continue
hostile and carry out his repeated threats to drive the Catholic clergy from Mexico? His attitude toward
other church has been friendly.
FOUR RELEASED
FftDM FEDERAL i
: PRISON ji
: NO ULTIMATUM. j J
I jiWonutarth Doors Ocen I Jn-
'6n Those Convicted of Elec-:
tion Frauds in Indiana City!
Elections. '
LONDON, Feb. 7. The gov
ernment1 received definite Infor
mation that there was no foun
dation to the report that the
Central Powers had delivered an
ultimatum, to Rumania.
BUTTLE TO SAVE
LEAVENWORTH. Feb. 7. Edwards
Holler, Alexander Aczell, Charles j
Hougnton, Joseph O'Mara, Geo. Sov-j
ern, former city officials of Terre
Haute and Indianapolis, convicted in
the election conspiracy cases, were re-1
leased from the United Slates penilen-' Hundreds Work to Save Bank
tiary having served their full sentence
and earned "good behavior allowanc
es." LEAVENWORTH. Kan.. Feb. 7.
ARKANSAS
, LEVEES
LUSH
AFFAIR
j iiiea.'-ures while the majority leader
sat tsilently. attracted crowds to tba
; galleries and members rushed to the
floor from their offices and committee
I rooms. , '
j The debate went far afield extending
j to the general subject or preparedness
the immediate improvement of f he na
jvy by designing battleships along the
lines of the best now in use. doubling
tbe membership of Annapolis and
jWest Point, and creation df many ad
ditional regiments for the army and
short term enlistments to produce a
'reserve, were among Clark's sugges
tions. Clark said he expected to dls
tcuss soon the subject of preparedness
'generally. Mann reiterated bis previ
ous pleas for a large army and navy
land aided in maneuvering the bills to
WINTERSET, Iowa, Feb. 7. Mrs. passage.
Ida Meyer, aged sixty, and reputed to i "This is not tbe time for crimination
;be wealthy, was placed on trial charg- or recrimination, Mann said. "It is
ied with complicity in the murder of, not the time to find fault with that
her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Fred Meyer, ' which has been. It is the time for all
in July, U15. It is expected the jury to join bands for that which may
will b completed tomorrow. The re-' come." Clark urged haste in getting
port, was circulated that Fred Meyer the new battleships Into commission.
'the defendant's son, wilf be called to Cannon created a stir by asking if the
! testify against his mother. Meyer was talk of preparedness was a sham per-
convlcted last December of second de- formance for campaign purposes. Lat
gree murder in connection with the;er he said he had not intended the
case. ' remark as a criticism of the President.
Meyer was sentenced to serve fifteen I
years. He Is at liberty on bail pend-1
Ing an appeal. The tentative jurymen j
the
WOMAN ON TRIAL
GORGAS SPEAKS
were asked whether they heard
reports that Mrs. Meyer was murdered i
by her husband and whether they had
heard reports concerning her past, j
Tbe woman's busband was found dead ;
in a cornfield ten years ago. Mrs. 1
Fred Meyer was found dead In ber '
home with a bullet wound in her head
President and the Cabinet will nt a revolver at her side. The bus-1
CHICAGO. Feb. 7. The United
Stares, in a few years, will have an
army of a million ready to take the
field. To meet the requirements of this
vast body of men at least ten thousand
surgeons will be required, asserted Dr.
W. C. Gorsas, Surgeon General of the
United States Army, before tbe annu-
1 r-nnwAd nt faHiiftl Vftilrat inn Th
Take Under Consideration j b,nd a"d mf r law c,ain,ed thrt congress closes tomorrow.
.1- r . o. . ! woman killed herslef. 4 i ,.... -.i.
tne x resent ot&ius or une ; vorga ws mim ma wtruuii ui
I s proposal, offered earlier in the day.
for a national conference of medical
w- icuivrrnv! vK 7 Tk. im.I. ..... .1 .u. 1. a m ' "'"""" ivniiw.-n,
u.-iilil.iuiv.', 1 a -- J r All A (njllf-C UII I III: I1 UUSi.l II IIU M M II'
dent will discuss with the cabinet to-1 battan bridges yeerday wnen tne
n,nrrn. tho pnmn.,,ni,.lin with I cruiser Washington passed under was
German-American Spat.
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURE
WASHINGTON. Feb.The placing of 1 '
which Germany hopes to bring the ne-1
gotiations over the Lusitanla to a ter
mination satisfactory to the United
States. Confidential advices from high
official quarters are to the effect that
the expressions of optimism regarding
of representa
tives of state medical examining
boards, which would prepare examina
tion MiiAutirtna ftr- utatA hnmPft thrmiph
explained by Daniels as a precaution-! 7" ' ... .
, . v j . out th ecountry. The candidates who
ntt.uH thu .Htninl lAn wnilld be ell-
usher, compiandant of the New ork "... .. ,
' ... . . . Igible to the United States Medical Re-
Navy Wrd because of the receipt of . ,. . .
, . ... ,. . . serve Corps and would not have 10
inu iriirin tailing lur i i uirni b.
of River and Preveit the De- omrml ,uarter8 re 10 Ine enecl ,nal attention to the fact that it would beip" "ny mar
uctionf Arkansas Gtv I !r" ? a V"!' -1 "
, nitir. ' "lUer tbe bride by dropping bombs on 1
by Great Hood Waters. inot without foundation. Chairman ,neln The Secretary said no intinm-' PRISONERS IN GERMANY
! Stone of .the Foreign Relations Com-!ton of pTot isled for tne dp.
LITTLE ROCK, Feb. 7. Hundreds mlttee declared, after conferring with I .,. nf ,ho vhlnrfnn nr n! BERLIN. Feb. 7. A total of 1,429.171
With the release from the United
States penitentiary here today, of Al-I
exander Aczell. former street inspec-! continued to battle to save the Missis- Administration officials, his belief In
tor of Terre Haute. Indiana: Edward sippl !evee8 to preVent the destruc tion
Holler, former chief of police; Charles'
LUXURIES FORBIDDEN?
BERLIN, Feb. 7. The Tageblatt
announces it is informed from semi
official sources that ban oo the im
portation of luxuries of every descrip-jber 21. Twelve remain in prison,
tion is impending. (Continued on Tage Six.)
of Arkansa Csity and Lake Village.
the case as "practically settled.'
It is authoritatively said at the State
Houghton, city hall custodian; Joseph " .Department that the position of tbe
O'Mara and George Sovern, nine of Bo,n are 'r'Ray Partly sunmergea in .government In recurd to the Lusitania
the men convicted in the election con-' Arkansas River flood waters. I was identical with tbe position taken
spiracy cases have satisfied the gov-! It is believed the Arkansas City lc'at the time the last note was dispatcb-
Istruction of the Washington or any j
: other vessel.
ernmcnt for their offenses. Four of.vee will withstand Mississippi stage ed t0 Germany. Lansinf denied tb
the offenders were paroled on Decenvjat 57.5 feet. The prediction is for fit- truth of tbe statement attributed (o
1 ty-?ven feet. It registered 55.9 to- the press dispatches to Dr. Alfred Ziui
(Continued on Page 6) merman, the German Under Secretary
cf the enemy soldiers to date are pri-
I soners ef war in Cerrasny. the Over-
of Foreign Affairs, to the effect that j seas Agency announced. "This does
the "new demands" bad been made at j not include the prisoners made by tbe
the time when Germany considered the; German troops and left in Austria-Hun
negotiations virtually at an end. The'gary in order to shorten transporta
German view, as represented here, is! tion. In addition 19.700 cannon. 7,700
military carriages and 3.000 machine
guns were conveyed to Germany. The
that the acreenient now offered joes
as far as German officials consider poe
stbl oward meeting the views of the
United States.
number of rifles taken which are still
fit t0 use is 1.300,000.
