"KRKZr RKrVRr.IOAX-lltl.
pail r rvnua LKmtKit-m
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
There In a chicken In our town
Who Isn t over-wise.
To look like Mary I'lckfonl Is
'Ilout nil sho ever tries.
Morning lrontonlan.
Jims WASTKIt.
Tho specifications and plans for Uio
building of tho M. B. church nt Mur
physvlllo nro now In tho hands of tho
commlttco nnd can bo seen at Mr.
Shell Hhodcs', It. I). No. 2, MnyBVllle,
Ky. All hldB must ho In by Kcbrunry
15. Tho right Is reserved to reject
nny nnd nil bids.
.VTTKNTIOX, HLD MKX.
BOGUS CHECK WORKER
And Snenfc Thief, Wanted Here, Cop.
tu red At Columbus, Or-Will
Ho Ilnuiglit Hack To
Sland Trial.
Chief of Police James Mnckey re
'eelved word yesterday morning that
Howard St. Clair, the young man
wanted here on charges of forgery
nnd grand larceny, had been captured
In Columbus, O.
Several weeks ngo the young man
visited this city and gave the name of
Howard St. Clair, representing him
self to bo the son of Judge St. Clair
of Ocorgetown, O. Whllo hero ho pur
chased an overcoat from George H.
Prank & Company, nnd gave a "cold"
check in payment for It. It is nl
leged that later ho visited tho house
boat Iluccnneer moored nt tho foot of
Lower street, and took a number of
nrttcles from It.
Requisition papers will be secured
from Governor Stanley nnd the young
fellow will be brought back to this.
city for trial. It Is probable that he
will go to ths penitentiary on the
charges placed against him.
woriiiMii: HirjtflhAK.s.
Itcgulnr meeting of the I. O. It. At.
tonight nt 7 o'clock. Tho degree team
will have work in tho Chief degree,
nnd n full attendance Is desired. All
j visiting brothers Invited.
I JAMES FHOST, Jr., Sachem.
1 Duke White, r. of 11.
MISS ANNA .MKXDKIj HKAU.
Durglars attempted to enter the home
of L. & X. Conductor Everett Peterson
on East Third street early Monday
morning, but were scared away by Mr.
Peterson before they secured anything
Miss Kathcrlno Downey has accept
ed tho position as stenographer and
bookkeeper for tho Maysvlllo Garment
Company, nnd will go to Cincinnati
this week to make tho transfer of ac
counts. The garment company will
begin operations here possibly next
week.
Mrs. Roger Dcvlno and children will
leave this week for Cleveland, 0,1
where she will join her husband, i
They will make their future home in
that city. She will bo accompanied by '
her father, Mr. Pat Brcen.
Miss Anna Mendel, aged G'J years,
died nt her home on Bank Btrcct Sun
day nftornoon nt 3 o'clock. Tho fu
neral was held yesterday afternoon
from her Into home. Interment In the
Mnysvlllo cemetery.
The Woman's Foreign Misslonnry
Society of tho Third Street M. E.
church will meet tonight nt 7:30
o'clock with Mrs. J. R. Cooper on
Limestone street.
MRS. J. M. LITERAL, President.
Mr. Lud Hamilton stopped over on
Monday and visited his 'mother. He
was en route from Ironton to Hunt
ington. Lud Is now traveling repre
sentative for a largo printing company
Oi Chicago.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Frank Dovlno and
family will shortly move frpm their
Market street property nnd make their
future home In tho Pat Brecn prop
erty on East Second street, near Com
merce. Mrs. G. Woodward and Miss
Grace Pepper of Germantown, spent
Monday here shopping.
Dr. O. C. Henry of Mlncrvn, has re
turned home from a visit to friends In
Doone county.
Mrs. LIda Conway Is the guest of
Mrs. Virgil D. Chandler of East Sec
ond street.
Mr. W. A. Pepper of Germantown,
was a business visitor here on Monday.
Mr. James Downing spent Sunday
at Germantown visiting friends.
Euchro tonight nt Eagles' Hall.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
have installed the latest and most improved equipment for handling your orders, which guar
antees mgn graoe mm worn ana saustaction to an, at the nest possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
TL1C MACnW IIIMDCD MMDAMV CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
NIL IIIHOUil LUinULIl UUIfll Hll I STREET. PHONE 519.
BRICK ANDJSPHALT
Council Passes (he Xccessnry OrdU
nances Heiiilrlng Hie Improving
nl Severn! Streets.
Council met In regular monthly ses
slon Monday night, Mayor Leo In tho
chair and nil members present.
Tho reports of the various city of'
ficlals wore read nnd accepted.
Tho Claims nnd Accounts Commlt
tco showed expenditures for January
$2,010.40.
. Fire Chief NowoII'b report showed
the Flro Department responded to
three alarms last month.
Mayor Lee Reported tho following
licenses collected the past month:
Life nnd accident Insurance. $ 450.00
Fire nnd tornado Insurance. 090.00
Livery stnblcs nnd gnrages.. 225.00
Pool, billiard rooms and bowl
ing alloys 185.00
ClgarcttcB
Hotels, boarding houses, res
taurants, lunch stnnds
Ileal cstntc dealers
Scales on streets
Insurance solicitors
Oil tank wagons 150.00
Vehicles of nil kinds 377.00
Miscellaneous 81.50
220.00
342.50
45.00
25.00
30.00
A. A. McLAUGIILIX.
L. X. HEIIAX.
HOBBIES
A prominent physician tells ns that "hobbies" arc healthy
things for us to have, and we feel that we must be blessed with
unusually good health, as we have AIYWAYS had a hobby
and it 's
HARNESS!
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen eents a pound,
our boast was that we made the best harness that could bo
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
and fifty cents a pound, we still maintain that wc have the
best harness that can be made. All you have to do to prove
that we are telling you facts is to' go to tho next "sale," and
hear Col. Ilensley Hawkins say in that musical, drawl for which
he is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Jliko Brown's
Harness. What do you bid?" Then's when you can sec the
farmer '"set up and take notice," lor he knows there will bo
some bidding on that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the time of the year, also,
when we are ready to soil him. All winter long our men hnvo
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now we nro
ready. Of course, it's higher tliiui when our grandfathers
used to buy it, btit, considering the prico of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price and high in quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAV
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
THY OXK I'ACKAML'. IT SOLYHS THK HHEAKFAST 1'itOIlLEJL
JUST TAl'l'JJD AXOTJIKH IIAHHEL OF THK FINEST NEW OHLEANS
MOLASSES EYE It IIHOUHIIT TO TOWN.
a'lIIIL & &OONRAQ . Phone 43.
Total $2,721.00
Total wharfage collected during tho
past year was $577.34.
City Treasurer Curran reported re
ceipts $10,876.11, expenditures $G,-
114.10 for the month of January, leav
ing a balance of $4,702.01.
Uuildlng permits wore granted ns
follows:
John F. P. Tollo, one-story frame
dwelling, metal roof, on Fifth street,
Third ward.
A. C. James, frame shed adjoining
stable on Second street, Fourth wnrd
S. M. King, storehouse, composition
roof, metal siding, on Second street,
Fourth wnrd.
Secretnry Iloone of the Cha"mber of
Commerce asked that Council take
some action In regards to the farmers
who are compelled to leavo their wag
ons on the streets over night without
n light not be amenable to tho new
law, which was explained to mean
that there would not be nny farmer
molested If he did not have a proper
wnmlng on his wagon. The tobacco
wnrehouscs will take care of their cus
tomers. x
Poolroom license was granted C. F.
Dland, on Market street between
Front and Second.
It. H. Hudson of Flemlngsburg, was
granted auctioneer's license for Mnys-vllle.
The Maysvlllo Gus Company and
Street Railway Company reported that
tho loop lot had been assessed to both
companies nnd had paid taxes twice on
It, and tho matter was referred to the
Propositions and Grievances Commit
tee.
Mr. Fnrrell and Jessio Williams
were placed on tho pension list at $4
per month.
f The ordinances relative In tlm lm
proving of Sutton, Market, Plum,
East Third and Second from Lime
stono bridge to Carmel street, with
vitrified brick, and of Court street
with asphalt were read nnd recolved.
Mr. William D. Cochran was granted
permission to address council nnd ask'
cd that instead of brick that asphalt
bo used from Union to Carmel streets,
ho presenting two petitions signed by
a majority of property holders. Mr.
Cochran mnde It plain to the members
of Council that asphalt Is tho only pav
Ing to put on that thoroughfare, as it
was so well adapted to residential pur
poses lu fact, from Ilrldgo street east
is practically tho only portion loft for
the erection of dwelling houses in this
city and It Is only fair that council
take cognizance of tho petitioners' de
blro, which they did, all but Mr.
Kaston, who. voted no. ns ho snld he
was for brick, and Second street, from
I'nlon to Curmel, was changed from
brick to asphalt,
Tho rules wero suspended nnd tho
ordinances were passed ns orlglnnlly
read, with tho corrections made,
Tho Junk nnd family boat ordluance
was defeated.
Tho soft drink nnd near beer or
dinance was put on Its passago, an
nmondment being offered to reduco the
feo from $1,000 to $200 wbb lost. The
ordlnanco bb originally rend was lost.
An ordinance prohibiting tho snlo,
barter or loan of any intoxicating
liquor In this city was read, and after
receiving It council suspended the
rules, and passed it. It provides for a
lino of from $100 to $1,000 for boot
legging. An ordlnanco licensing near beer.
malt liquors and cldor und fixing the
tax at $200 wag passed.
An ordlnanco Imposing u tnx of $1G
per year on manufacturers of pop,
soft drinks or cocncola was passed.
An ordlnanco Imiioslng a license tax
of $60 on wholesalers or agonts of
near bcor, cocucola und soft drlnka
was passed.
An ordlnanco imposing a license
tax of $25 on soda fountains was
passed.
An ordlnanco Imposing $5 for the
sulo of bottled pop' was passed.
City Attorney Calhoun asked conn.
cil to 'send the Attorney, tbo Mayor
and Hon. Stanley need to Frankfort to
lobby a hill through the Legislature
on tnxatlon, nnd they will go.
A committee wns nppolntcd to con
fer with the City Collector In regard!
to dividing up with tho police on the
collection of taxes.
Chairman Ituspcll of tho Wnys nnd
Means Commlttco wns authorized to
pay the Interest duo nt the Hank of
Maysvlllo.
Council authorized tho printing nnd
Issuing of $20,000 worth of emer
gency bonds.
Progress wns reported on the Ama
zon "hump."
Tho rock crushor wns brought Into
prominence again nnd It Is likely will
revert to tho city ngnln.
A light In front of tho old library
building on Sutton street wns referred
to tho Light Committee.
Fourth street between Market and
Limestone was roported In bad shape
Tho street will bo attended o.
Council adjourned nt 11:30 after
re-employing Knglneer Glazier to be
hero next meeting night.
12 QUARTS
Of Unfiled lloozp Taken From a Fellow
Vllio Had llcen Arrested
On Minor Chnrge.
Monday ,nlght while the City Dads
were wrestling with tho ordinances
rclntlve to brick and asphalt streets,
and Attorney John Calhoun had Just
begun the reading of the first ordi
nance, nn officer broke In- and de
manded of the City Attorney tho law
on n minor offense, which was given
him.
When heard from again It devel
oped that a fellow named HIerley, who
said he wns from Robertson county,
had been tuken up before Chief Mnck
ey, anil two ppllt baskets ho carried
being examined, wore found to con
tain twelve quarts of bottled-ln-bonJ
whisky.
Chief Mackey had him held In bond,
which he gave, on a bootlegging and
having an unlawful amount of liquor
In his possession chnrge.
VALENTINES, VAI.KXTIXES. !
Our line Is the largest ever brought
to Maysvlllo. See us first. Prices 1
cent to $3. De Nuzlo.
Miss Tllllo Kllis of Henderson, la '
who was tho guest of Miss Aunnbolle;
Wheeler of Kast Second street, last
week, has left for her home.
ClltCPIT COUKT.
At d brief session of tho Mbbou Clr
oult Court Monday, tho mnndnto In
the case of Qeorgo Dlencr et al. vs,
Isaac Lnno et nl was received and I
orders filed, thus Mason county be-
enmo officially dry on February 7. Ij
John Mooro was Indicted ror cnr-'
rylng concealed weapons nnd wns ro- I
leased on hall In tho sum of $100.
LAST CilAXCi:.
To get dally Courier-Journal for $4
per year by mall. Offer expires March
1. Do Xuzle, Agent.
.HAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices aro right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Next Friday Is Thomns A. Kdlson's
blrthdny. On that day J. T. Knckley &
Company will give n concert from I
to C p. m., and to all those who havo
purchased one of Kdlson's Diamond
Disc Phonographs of us, wc will give
one of our Indestructible records.
Our prico tills week for butterfat,
32 cents Maysvlllo. llrlng It In any
day, any time of the day, nnd receive
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLR MODKL CREAMERY.
EVO GEL'S STAR BRAND HAMS
ORDER ONE TODAY
H
M
M
M
Homc-Grown Potatoes 35c Per Peck
Our Own Make Sauer Kraut 25c Gallon
DING BR BROS., 107 w3SSw i
Mr L. M Cavendish Is In Cincin
nati nttemllng the N'ntlonnl Assoclntlon
of Independent 5 nnd 10 Cent Stores.
Circuit Clerk Jnmes II, Key had to
lay oft Monday. Tho grip bus seems
to have been getting In his work.
LOOK HERE!
M
Why Go to the Trouble and Kxpcnse of Ordering Irom a City
When Wc Have a Complete Line of
Trusses, Crutches $ Abdominal Supports
At n Reasonable Price. See Us. 5
M. F.WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
Mr. Dan Lloyd of Dover, wns n vis
itor in MayHVille on Monday
See the largest line of Valentines In
Maysvlllo nt Do Xuzlo.
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
Our Semi-Annual Shirt Sale
Begins Next Tuesday, the 8th
Manhattan $1.50 shirts at $1.25.
Manhattan $2 Shirts at $1.65.
Eclipse $1 Shirt at 85c.
This sale will continue for ten days. You know they are
the best brands of shirts made in the country.
Our cut prices on the best clothes made continues until
further notice.
TD. IB30TailSTC3-E3R. &. CO.
DO NOT POSTPONE LINEN BUYING
This year more tliau ever it Is advisable to replenish generously the linen stiuulv. War has Interferrcd with fins production; linen
Is becoming scarcer. From an economical standpoint the purchaso of linen now Is the part of wisdom.
Pleached Table Linen 50c to $3 yard.
."liver HIeach Damask 50c to $1.25.
Colored Table Linen 25c to $1.
Dinner Nankins $1 to $0.50 dozen.
Tea Nankins 50c to $:?.po dozen
Damask Towels 25c to $1 25.
I fuck Towels inc to $1 50
Turkish Towels 1214c to "Cc.
Guest Towels 19c to 50c.
Set of Cloth nnd 12 Nankins $7 to $15.
Doilies Cc to 25c.
Center Pieces 25c to $4.
Colored Costume Linens 25c to $1.25 yard.
Compare these prices with the
qualities they represent nnd sat
isfy yourself, that incredible as
it seems, we are positively of
feriti? linens at the same price
wc did before the tocsin of war
SOltnded in Kni ope. ::::::::
Handkerchief Linen 40c to $1.50 yard.
Luncheon Cloths 25c to $5.
nattcuburg and Mexican Table Cloths 75e to ?10.
Scarts 23c to $1.
Crash Toweling 5c to 20c yard.
lluck Toweling 25c to GOc yard.
Linen Sheets 88x06 inches, 5 pair.
Linen Sheets 96x100 Inches, $0 pair.
Linen Sheeting 75c to $1.50 yard.
Linen Pillow Cases $2 to $2.50.
Pillow Case Linen 36 to 45 Inches, according to
width. 40c to 75c yard.
I.Iuen Tublug 40 to 42 Inches. 75c and 85c yard.
Whito Dlouso and Dress Linen 25c to $1.50 yard.
WE INVITE COMPARISON
After looking nt Coats, Suits and Dresses nil over town wo know you will more fully unureeluto our splendid bargains. Of course
assortments In. each linn are limited at this season, nevertheless just tho slzo, style and color you want may bo In our stock. Let us
show you tho $10 and-$12V Suits worth $20 nnd $25. Tho $7.50 nnU $8.75 sllk-nud-vclvet dressc3 worth $15 nnd $17.50. Tho $3 nnd
$6.25 fancy wool coats worth $10 and $12.50. Tho very excellent all wool black suits with satin lined coats, wo aro closing out for $5.00.
1SSS
WANTED.
Second-hand desk and cabinet.
Ledger Publishing Company,
Sco
Mr. Clifford Worthlngton of N'epton, Subscribe at onco for dally Courier
was a business visitor to Mnysvlllo on, Journal by mail, $4. Only few days
Monday. left Do Nuzle.
Mr. Ccorgo H. Cavendish of Hunt
ington, V. Vn., Is tho guest of Ills
brother, Mr. L. M. Cavendish.
IThe New House Dresses 1
have arrived. The famous "ELECTRIC BRAND," S
S the dresses with the perfect fit. Come in and select
a few while the assortment is good.
Sizes 34 to 54.
I $1 to $2.98 I
