tVOTE AS YOU THINK LINCOLN WOULD HAVE VOTED
How would the saviour of his country stand on the two great problems before the United States today? Let The Times
readers express their views! We'll print the result on Lincoln's birthday—next Saturday. Here are the questions on
which "Honest Abe" would have to decide were he president today. Vote as you think he would have.
SHOULD WE PREPARE? Yes. No. SHOULD WE INTERVENE IN MEXICO? Yes. No.
(If You Think Lincoln Would Vote "Yes," Check the Word "Yes;" jf "No," Cheek the Word "No." Mail Your Reply to the Editor.)
Maj. George N. Evans, 32 years
disbursing officer, department of
the interior, Washington, handled
$400,000,000 without error or loss.
FORTUNE WILL BE EXPENDED
ON PRAIRIE IRRIGATION PLANT
HUGHES: A Man On Trial
In the capitol in Washington there sits a man who seems merely to be occupying a seat on the
Ereme bench of the United Stales, or studying the law of certain great cases which he is to assist in
iding, or in writing opinions in cases which have been decided.
As a matter of fact, however, he has been taken up into tho moun
tain and offered the greatest kingdom on earth, if he will only fall down
and worship the satan of political ambition.
This man is Mr. dust ice Charles K. Hughes—a man on trial. On trial
in the court of conscience before the supreme tribunal of posterity.
A great political party seeking power believes that it could win it if
Hughes only would take the nomination for president. He is under con
stant solicitation, if not under constant temptation, to accept the offer
and allow his name to he used.
These solicitations if not these temptations—will continue and
grow stronger until the republican national convention has met, and
probably will culminate in the greatest crisis in the life of Mr. Hughes
after the convention is actually in session.
Well, say the unthinking, why should he not accept the nomination if
it is offered himf
Because that by so doing he will transform the supreme court from
what it is and always has been into a rostrum from which its member!
may electioneer for the presidency.
We have found many faults with the supreme court, but we have
never had any reason to suspect that its members have sought the favor
of powers influential in politics in the hope of political promotion.
It' Hughes accepts this nomination he will thereby change that court
absolutely. No appointment will ever be made to it thereafter except with
a view to presidential politics. It will have become a forum in which rival candidates will jockey for
position in the presidential race. And that means a revolution in the most powerful department of
the federal government—the department of justice.
The Times is not opposed to revolutions as such. We are for revolutions of the right sort. We
feel, however, that to change the supreme court into a sort of presidential waiting list of men who are
given their great eminence by appointment, and not by election, and who hold their position! tor lift'
is a revolution backward instead of forward. i
"No man has a right to decline the office of president if it is offered him." Thus we hear a cer
tiun breed of the thoughtless talking when Hughes is discussed.
What gives George Washington his clearest title to immortality ? Washington is immortal be
cause after that revolution was successful and he had been president, he declined the nomination when
it was offered at a time when he believed that he should not accept it.
Hughes has the greatest opportunity of any man since Washington. He may have a chance
to reject absolutely the presidency offered at a time when, as a patriot, he should not take it.
He will become immortal if he so acts as to prevent the supreme court of the United States from be
coming the great Auction Block of American Office-Brokerage.
Project to Irrigate Vast Acreage
Near Tacoma Takes Definite Form
Everything for
Your Good
As a depositor you
know that your account
cannot be drawn against
except on your order.
You know that the
bank will see the money
is paid to tbe one to
receive it.
You get back the most
perfect voucher (re
ceipt) known to the
business world.
Deposit in thin Bank
and draw by check and
your Interests are pro
tected.
Puget Sound
State Bank
1115 Pacific Avenue
nted as needed by small irrlga- been considered practically
tion ditches of the usual type. worthless will be increased ln
Surveys All Made. value.
project has been under con- ..vpei-liiients Conclusive
mplation for three years. The "A similar system was in
gineering work is completed, stalled on the Se _vim flats near
and expert opinions by govern- Cape Flattery on land which is
ment and other engineers have much poorer than that near Mc
been obtained. Water rights ha\e Kenna, Kapowsin or any of the
been acquired and other arrange- land which is included in the
ments made. Taconia project. That land is
Announcement of the beginning selling for as high as |600 an
of actual construction is expected acr e. A similar advance in prices
to be made in a few daya. no doubt will occur here."
ln general, the plans call for Recent experiments in which
the construction of two Irrigation tracts of prairie land were divid
units each supplying 13,000 e d into 100 foot portlona and
acres. It will require 10 months p u n ted with various farm pro
to get water on the land. dnctßi 80me belng irrigated while
Biggest on Mound- corresponding portions were not
Associated with Hawthorne in watered, showed that as good
The enterprise, expected to re- the enterprise are M. W. Dibble, commodities can be raised as on
aulre a capital of several hundred h. contracting partner, and E. M. the rlch valloy land( Haw .
thousand dollars, will draw Its More. tborne
water supply from the Puyallup The enterprise will be the larg- strawberries and ra__r.h_.r___.
rlrer. eat of the kind attempted on this gro wn on tl fland are s^d to b_
The intake will be placed at aide of the mountains in the 0," .Jod They are firmer
Electron, Just below the Stone A northwest, and will brinf water £__ tho Y alta " borr.w andl haSh
Webster power plant which helps to th e land at a lower cost per *T«ii_i__,i filvnr
supply the Taconia car aystera acre than any other Irrigation ««»'■«""» "»'"■
with current. system in tha world, according to m Tacoma Capital
The water will pass through Its backers. The money to be Invested is en
five miles of wood stave pipe and "It will mean everything to tlrely Tacoma capital.
10 miles qf open ditch to the Tacoma," says Hawthorne. At least t.OQO families can be
prairies. There it will ba dlstrib-"Property wbicb heretofore baa placed on tbe stretches of now
An announcement that the
proposed ii 'ligation project to
reclaim 28,000 acres of prai
rie land smith of Tacoma had
laken definite form was made
today by J. B. Hawthorne,
contractor.
Public attention was first call
ed to the feasibility of the plan a
few days ago by (lien Parker of
the U. S. geological survey, in a
talk to the Rotary club.
Until Hawthorne let It be
known today that an actual con
summation of the idea was ln
progress, it had been supposed to
lie only a hazy proposal.
Instead, it bids fair to develop
into one of the most extensive im
provements of the year.
Intake at Electron.
The Tacoma Times
THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TAOOMA.
VOL. XIII. NO, 4:5. TACOMA, WASH.. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1916.
25c a
Month
Charlotte, the Teuton Top
**^"
PAVLOWA
OF ICE IS
THIS GIRL
NEW YOKK, Feb. B.—Part
of the responsibility for the
skating craze that has spread
over the I'nited States this win
ter can be traced to tlie gyra
tions on ice of the "Teuton Top,"
Charlotte Oelschlaeger.
Charlotte —her last name r.
seldom used in connection with
her performances on ice—has
already cost New York alone
$3,OntLhOO.
Public .lust In Mood.
It is figured that much lias
been spent for skates, skating
shoes, skating scarfs and skat
ing costume and in restaurants
adjoining rinks, since Charlotte
started Ihe craze.
When Charlotte began to
akate, she began to break into
tho newspapers
It happened that the public
was in just the proper mood to
make skating a fad.
The dame craze lias been on
for- some time. Most folk had
danced themselves out. Th^
public was ready for something
new,
She's Ice Pnvlowa.
Charlotte's press agenl says
she was in 111 health before she
took lo skating at tbe age of 6.
What ever was tho matter with
Charlotte it isn't any more. She
does as many things on ice as
Pavlowa does on tlie stage.
She is even more daring, he
cam, p there is more chance for
the skates to slip than for Pav
lowa to lose control of her edu
cated tootsies.
Charlotte comes onto the rink
for her performance like a shot
from a 4 2-centimeter gun.
At the center of the stage she
brings herself up on her right
toe and begins to whirl. She
makes 23 revolutions.
barren land. With a little water
they can turn these lands into a
profitable oasis, it la asserted.
An added beauty of tbe project
is that when the proposed 26,000
acres are farmed, there is still
Lake Kapowsln, which can be
used as a storage basin to bring
about the irrigation of T. T.,000
more acres.
It will be several years before
this mucli land will be reclaim
ed. It is expected, but It will be
possible to do so as soon as it Is
desired.
Home
Edition
GERMAN
NAVY TO
BATTLE?
LONDON, Feb. 8.--Dutch ru
mors that the German navy is
preparing for its long-expetced
dash today constituted the basis
for the belief that a mighty bat
tle in Ihe North sea is Imminent.
These rumors were supported
by apparently corroborative re
ports from other sources than
The Hague that the <!er?_<uiH
along the Belglun coast have
withdrawn and have taken refuge
in the Kiel canal.
I.eaves of absence for all of
ficers are reported to have been
cancelled.
Copenhagen reports extreme
activity in tlie Kiel canal and
that tlie German ships are about
to venture forth to risk au en-
gagement.
Four Zeppelins and a flock of
Taubes have reinforced the air
flotilla at Kiel. The German
dreadnaughts are equipped with
17-inch guns, while the Zeppe
lins are equipped to shoot tor
pedoes from the air.
SINK 40 VESSEL*
PARIS. Feb. B.—Russian tor
pedo boats have sunk 40 Turk
ish sailing vessels and bombard
ed three naval construction
yards on tbe Anatolian coaat, ac
cording to dispatches today.
Tacoma: Unsettled, probably
rain or snow tonight and Wednes
.day.
Washington: Same, colder to
night extreme east portion.
SPRINGS
ANOTHER
PUZZLE
Editor The Times:
Now 1 am sore; some one had
tbe nerve to say that they solved
the dot puzzle before tho ink
got dry on the edition in which
it was printed.
All right, Mr., Mrs and Miss
Times Headers,, do this one -
Place 4 0 dots on a piece of
paper in such n position that you
will have 11 STRAIGHT rows
of 1 dots to tlie row. There is
one restriction, however, 1 must
make, and that is that you will
not attempt to solve this puzzle
until the ink gets dry.
Very truly yours.
M. W. MORRIS.
P. S.—Yes, I have the answer
lure at the office. 7C2 Broad
way; you may see it any time.
M. W. M.
TODAY'S CLEARINGS
Clearings % .'!....,' in?, ir,
Balances 11,140.15
Transaction! 1.U1.TM.11
•fTalko' the Times r
Greeting*, have you dis
carded your galoshes?
Pasß it to Doc Trimble. He
got II jobs out of Owen Woods.
That's going some, with a city
campaign just coming on.
Now they predict ..O-cent
gasoline. Thru'- when we
start a fad for riding the
self-starting hurro.
If our bad weather is due to
the heavy gun-fire in Yurrup, as
some of the wise -old owls say,
we're more than ever in favor of
peace.
When you rote In the
Commercial club election
today do It with nn end to
smashing every slate that
you see the old gang push
ing.
Judge Stiles wins a terrific vic
tory! U. 8. circuit court of ap
peals decides city was right tn
taking away T. It. & P. power
franchise two years ago. Now
if the judge only could take
WEATHER
CATCH
PUPILS
IN RAID
CLEVELAND, 0., Feb. I, —.
Kive girls and live boy*, stu
dent* in Mat etui high schools,
niit held by the police as the fay
suit oi v rabl ou an East "titb
street liOUM, near St. t'lalr .iv.
Tin mil of tlio ten young
people were furnished the ofll
cciv by a yon UK uian giving Ida
name as Harold Sicgei and »ort>
lied b) three of tho girls |b< ui
seh ea,
\o I 'orm.ll Charge*.
One flrl lonn.l in the East
7i.Hi it, bouse was taken from
her home In an auto by a young
man. according to tlie uli'l'a
mother, who had reported her to
the police as missing.
Sienei was placed under nrrest
on the (hiune ol operating a din
orderly house.
The high school youths and
the Kills were not P"t under
formal charges.
I'olii c I'hlef Howe said that 14
irraati might result from tha
raid, which was made as pott
of the police campaign to « leau
up houses, apartmoata ai.d no
tels used for unlawful purposes.
"tMtMMt" 1/cMer*.
A his bundle of letters, many
of them beginning "Sweetheart"
and Dearie.' were also found
in the raided house, Detective
l.ii'inenani Sterling said.
'Officers who made the rufd
told me there waa reason to ne
lieve girls were held prisoners in
I the house, and that other young
'girls and \outlis oame there
oftaa," bald Sterling.
FISHERMAN IN BAY
AN HOUR WHEN HIS
BOAT IS CAPSIZED
His rowboal cap.dzlng In the
swells of a steamer while he was
drifting off the St. Paul doeha
at 1:30 o'clock last evening,
Leonard Hitter, a fisherman, re
mained In the icy water, ding
ing to the overturned craft, for
an hour before he was rescued.
Foss laugh No. 10, operated
by William Case, came to Ills aid
just as dusk was falling.
away (ho on* he helped hand
the T. It. A P on a silver platter
about a month ago to replace tbe
one nullifies Bur, pshaw, Louis
Mean wouldn't like that.
If Doc Cook still feels
bad over not finding wild
men in Borneo, we suggest
that he investigate tlie sup
erintendents of certain rall
rouds crossing the Cascades.
Mr. Young declares thst Clara
Kimball Young's affections ara
worth $lou,ooo. Oh, those
beautiful movie actresses!
We notice that the I'nl
versify of Washington Is
going to take the football
championship again nest
fall. They've got Doble to
come l»a«-k.
The lady next door says:
Why can't some mother* aaa
their children's faults—
They have so many?
I'm sura that I could aaa mj
Johnnies faults—-
If ha had auy.
