1 t
THE BARUE DAILY, TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 278.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUKSDAV, FEBRUARY 8, 1910.
PRICE ONE CENT.
LOST TRENCH
WON AGAIN
BY GERMANS
They Were Driven Out by
the French at Point South
of River Somme, but They
Recovered the Position by
a Counter-Attack
ACTIVE FIGHTING BY .
INFANTRY TO-DAY
The, Continuation of Violent
Bombardment All Along
the Western Front Is Re
ported, but the Signifi
cance of It Is Not Made
Apparent
SUGAR IMPORTS
TO BRITISH ISLES
MAY BE CUT DOWN
British Royal Commission Advances Plan
to Influence Rates of Exchange in
Favor of Great Britain.
London, Feb. 8. More restrictions on
the importation of sugar during the com
ing months in order to reduce eonsuuip
tion is recommended by the British roy
al commission. The report of the com
mission Hays that economics in the uao
of sugar will influence the rates of ex
change in fuvor of Great llritain, as all
sugar consumed here i imported.
QUESTIONS BRITISH FINANCE.
Berlin, via wireless, Feb. 8. Active
fighting on the French front jouth of the
river Somme was announced to-day fcy
the German army headquarters. In the
course of the engagement the Germans
lost a small section of one trench they
had conquered but afterwards they re
took the position by a counter-attack.
Except for the continuation of in
tense bombardment along the Franco
Belgian front, there are few reports of
ictivity from the major fields of mill
tary operations. Whether the notable
play of German, French and British
ifuns on hostile positions is preparatory
to important infantry operations or is
for minor purposes only is not appar
snt.
The current official statements, as well
l s independent reports, indicate a con
tinuation of the state of quietude along
the broad front where the Russians and
f ., Teutons have been facing each other
for months with few changes of terri
tory. Only in the Caucasus apparently
are the Russian armies active. The Pct
rograd war office reports continued ad
vances there against the Turks, both
north and south of Erzcrum, the Rus
sian forces having pressed further west
ward along the lilack sea coast and along
the northern shores of Lake Van.
Reports are current in London that
Field Marshal SKarl Kitchener, is to take
over the command of the British forces
in Egypt and that Earl Derby, who has
been in charge of recruiting, is to bo
the new secretary of state for war.
X These reports are not confirmed.
German Imperial Treasurer Points Out
Alleged Unsatisfactory Evidences.
Berlin, Feb. 8, wireless to Sayville.
Dr. Karl Ilelfferich, secretary of the
German imperial treasury, yesterday
made reply, according to the Overseas
News agency, to questions propounded
recently to Germany by , Sir Edward
MoIuYn at the annual meeting of the
London C'itv and Midland bank, of
which Sir Edward ia managing director,
In addition to replying to Sir Edward's
questions regarding Germany's finances,
Dr. Ilelfferich in turn interrogated Sir
Edward with regard to the finances, of
Great Britain.
To the question whether German as
ets in foreign countries still exist Dr.
HellTcrich said billions of German as
sets were being withheld by England un
der receivership against law and equity.
Ho then asked what conclusion was to
be drawn as to England's finance from
the fact that Great Britain, through
Sir Edward, floated a loan in the United
States to strengthen the exchange rate
on the English pound.
V ith regard to the decrease in Ger
man exports. Dr. Ilelfferich pointed out
that tireat Britain's exports had shrunk
by half and that iuiMrts, inclusive of
those of the government, had swelled
to such an extent that the balance of
trade against Great Britain was now
500,000,000 pounds instead of 150,000,000
pounds as formerly.
To Sir Edward 8 question whether!
Germany s foreign security holdings had
not all been sold, Dr. Helffefieli replied
that Great Britain s search of mail on
neutral ships for foreign securities "and
the discoveries made on these occasions
must suflicicntly edify Sir Edward con
rnmg the actual existence of large
German holdings of such securities.
Dr. Ilelfferich, with regard to the
charge of inflation of German paper cir
culation, said the war credit banks, mort
gage banks and insurance companies
never issued bank notes. He also said
that the Reichsbank statements did not
mention an ounce of gold which was
not in the bank's vault. He said re
ports of riots in Germany in which hun
gry women w'ere shot down by the mili
tary were inventions. As to future
taxes in Germany, the secretary said
the war was costing lier two shillings
per head of the population in Great Brit
ain as against one shilling in Germany.
NEGOTIATIONS
WITH GERMANY
ARE AT CLIMAX
Secretary of State Lansing
Went into'Conf erence with
President Wilson an Hour
Before the Cabinet Was
Scheduled to Take Up the
Latest German Proposal
3IAY ANNOUNCE
HIS CANDIDACY
WITHIN A MONTH
ANNOUNCEMENT NOT
PROBABLE TO-DAY
In Germany There Is Said to
Be Less Tension on Re
ceipt of Favorable News
from the United States
American Securities Show
More Strength
President Wilson's Friends Expect That
He Will Shortly Notify the Ohio
Secretary of Stats That His
Name May Be Used.
Washington. D. C, Feb. 8. President
1 1 hoi id closest advisers expect him to
make the first formal announcement of
his candidacy for renoinimit ion within a
month, when they believe, he will notify
the secretary of state of Ohio that the
voters have his consent to use ma name
in the primary. This is required by law.
President Wilson has made no definite
announcement whether he would be a
candidate, even to his friends, so far as
known; but all take it as settled that he
will lie a candidate.
DEATHS AT ST. ALBANS.
FIRE STARTED
FROM FURNACE
Highgate Center Had Large
Blaze Early This
Morning
FORESTERS' HALL
WAS WIPED OUT
Barber Shop Was Also
Burned Storehouse
Caught Fire
MENTIONED FOR BRAVERY.
Member of French Flying Corps Has
Brought Down 5th German Adversary.
Paris, Feb. 8. Sergeant Pilot Guvne-
Washington, D. C, Feb. 8. Secretary
of State Lansing went to the White
House an hour before the cabinet meet
ing to-day to discuss the Lusitaiiia nego
tiations which were to be taken up at
the meeting. Secretary Lansing said
that an announcement on the accepta
bility of Germany's latest proposals was
improbable to-day and he could not say
hether he later would confer with
Count Von Bernstorff.
That the Lusitaiiia case looks verv
hopeful was the statement of a high ad
ministrative' official following the confer
ence between President Wilson and Sec
retary Lansing. It was indicated that
the president considers Germany's latest
offer as almost, if not entirely, accept
able. .
After the cabinet meeting Secretary
Lansing repeated that there was no state
ment to bn given out at this time, lie
added that he might see Count Von llern
storff later in the day.
Reuben L. Dewey. 74. and Frank St.
Lawrence, 77, Died Yesterday.
St. Albans, Feb. 8. Reuben L. Dewey
oi lairlax, aged 74 years, died at 0:30 Highgate Center. Feb. 8. Fire which
. 4 I - i 1U 1 : . a. i . 1 -
(Mlv u ft hi it luixr i n.sii fiviiii t La af. n
fects of paralytic strokes. He had been I "roved the rorestera Hall, owned by
at the hospital six months. Mr. Dewey Columbus court, Catholic Order of For-
vvus a resident of thw city many years, esters, and a barber shop owned and
but moved to Fairfax about four years . . . . 0 .
ago. ll is survived by his wb and. ,
two daughters by a, former marriage. 18 estimated at $3,200, on which there
.Miss Julia Dewey, a muse in training is a. partial insurance. Gray Bros. Glass
at the hospital, and Mrs. K. M. Doughty Blowers, who gave an entertainment in
of Brooklyn, X. V. The remains were 'the hall hist night, also lost all their
taken to the home of J. J. Hunt on Kugg paraphernalia. The storehouse of Cross
street. Miss Dewey arrived in the city, to. caught lire but the names in it
Inst evening and Mrs. Doughty was ex
pectl this noon. The funeral will be
held at the home of Mr. Hunt Wednes
day afternoon at 2 o'clock, Kev. J. M.
Maxwell, pastor of the Baptist church
at Fairfax officiating.
r rank St. Jjiwrence, 77 years old,
died at his home on the Swanton road
yesterday morning at fi o'clock of pneu
monia. He is survived bv two sons,
George St. Ijtwrenee of Swanton and
William St. Lawrence of Ifolvoke, Mass.,
ami by four - daughters, - Mrs. Kdward
parrell of Swanton, Mrs. Peter St. ( lair
of Highgate Springs, Mrs. George Blair
of Swanton Junction, Mrs. Earl Thomp
son and Mrs. Fred Bronson of this city.
FORFEITED CASH BAIL.
LESSENED STRAIN
FELT IN GERMANY
OVER LUSITANIA
Tension Somewhat Relieved on Receipt
of More Favorable News from
United States American
Securities in Bourse
Take Upward
Turn.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 8. Tension
in what is called here the Lusitaiiia
Eight Brattleboro Men Chose That in
Preference to Appearing in Court.
Brattleboro, Feb. 8. Eight men. said
bv New Hampshire deputy sheriffs to
have been business men of Brattlelioro.
who were caught in a raid earlv Sunday ,or i"ecmuer, una, ana mree nines
. . - . . . .- ' ,r .... l. ,, : t ........... f i i t -
were extinguished
The! Foresters' hall was considered one
of the best in the state. The total loss
on it was $2,500, with an insurance of
$1,000 on the building and $750 on the
contents. Mr. Bonoit'g loss is $700' and
he carried $500 insurance. The lire
probably started from a furnace in the
roresters hall
11 CASES ASSIGNED
For Hearing This Week Before Vermont
Supreme Court.
At the opening of the second week of
the February term of supreme court this
morning the court reviewed the trial cal
endar and set 11 eases for hearing during
the week. A number of cases were set
over until the special term at Brattle
boro.
Following are the eases set for hear
ing this week: Orleans county, town of
Lowell vs. II. D. Stannard and town of
Barton, Andrew F. Hill vs. H. A. Ritchie
et al, Fitzgerald Land A Lumber Co. vs
Prouty and Miller, Raymond Aikm vs
Oliver Mctealf; Caledonia county, Xelson
and Wallace vs, Martin H. Gibson, Hat tie
M. Bancroft, adm.x., vs. A. H. Cote, Os
car C. Woodruff, adm., vs. William L.
and Sarah Donaldson: Windsor county
Arthur K. Pitkin vs. John Munsill, W,
M. Munsill, guardian, Valeria. B. French
vs. 1'erley 10. Wheeler, apt.: Windham
county, Sumner Ellingwood, by guardian,
vs. Armon U. Lllmgvvood et al. ami the
Kssex county case, Xaham P. Dearth vs.
Beecher Falls Co. Six Windham county
ases were continued for the special term
to be Held next week at Brattleboro.
GARBAGE PLAN
CALLED FARCE
Some Hard Knocks for Col
lection System Were De
li vered Last Night
LEFT WORK AND DIED.
EXPORTATIONS WERE
VERY MUCH LARGER
Through Vermont District the Amount in
January Was Three Times the To
tal for the Same Month a
Year Ago.
St. Albans, Feb. 8. A light falling off
in importations in the Vermont customs
district is shown by the January report,
but the volume of exportations showed
an increase, being $.2,000,000 more than
morning in a house on the Hinsdale side
of the Connecticut river, failed to go
to Keene, X. H., yesterday afternoon, it
is said, to make their appearance in
court there. They preferred to forfeit
cash bail.
O. H. Kllis, who, the officers said, wgs
apparently in charge of the place, and
diaries Ebbigliauscn, owner of the prem
ises, were among ' those arrested. Ihe
fliers declined to make public tlie
names of the others. Ciiy Marshal W.
A. Philbrick of Keene was at the head
of the raiding party. The officers forced
an entrance. i
Kllis was askpd to furnish bail of i
greater than in January of 1915.
The total importations in January
1916. were $1,021,6X1; duties collected,
$17,02.'! .2.1 j exportations, $.104,GOG. In
January, 1915, the imiortations were $1,-
280,424; the duties collected, $8,024.88;
the exportations, $1,604,155.
QUINCY ENGINEERS SETTLED.
Leaving Cutters, Sharpeners and Polish
ers Still Dickering.
Quincy, Mass., Feb. 8. The new bill
of price between the granite manufac
turers and engineers employed in the
nilRI-rioH ond noliafiittrr Inillu U'um airmail
$200 ad went to Ebbiglmusen's house, i turtIaj. ni ,lt. Th aKreement is to
hbb.ghaiisen gave the amount to himLke pffw.t March j and is to fuu for
four years at loa't
diui M.'iia nrnm lit ci i rou iaA li.maanlf anrl !
RUSSIA'S MUNITIONS
ARE NOW ADEQUATE
Minister of War Declares That the Crisis j
in That Respect is Now Only a
Memory in Russia.
oi .......... v 1. n..:
fiiti, hl tcuia uiu, ivl Liit? riviiiu living - .- 1 1 . i ,
corps, has just brought down his fifth i1""" '"-""J
German adversary and has been men-j the result of more favorable news from
tioned for his exploit in an oflicial com- America, which was featured prominejit
munieation. Previously ho had been ! i,v bv most of the newspapers. The les
decorated with the cross of the Legion j s'rnpj straill reflated instantly On
of Honor, the war cross and the military t)le ftmrse which showed greater
medal for other feats. ialxenirth in American securities than at
ALLIES' CRUISERS APPEAR.
i One British and One French Vessel Seen
Off Virginia Cape.
His work at the lront began in April ailv ;,np for Uweck
of last yean. It was not until Decem
ber 5 that he began to make his record
Paris, reb. 8. Russia s munitions j by hunting German aeroplanes. At that
crisis is now a thing of the past," said,timo ne bought down, single handed,
Oneral Polivarmff. f, Rnssinn mini. I a ,,lrc l"ae.
ter of war, in an, interview with tho
correspondent of the l'aris Journal in
Bussia. "It is an unpleasant memory
but fortunately it is only a memory,"
said General Polivanoff.
"With reurard to the troops." the min
ister continued, "their spirit is excel- manipulates. It is armed with a Weapon J pri.e Appam will put to sea
which it is not permitted to desenlie. . "-
ne nannies it. witn remarKaiue lacuitv . i " --
a similar amount obtained from him.
In the case of the sis others $25 was
the amount demanded and received of
each.
WOMAN SHOT MINISTER.
Claimed He Had Insulted Her; Victim
Will Die.
Sherman Tex., Feb. 8. llev. C. JI.
Cagle, aged 40, a Baptist minister of
Sherman, was shot and probably fatal
ly wounded on the First Public square
vesterciav afternoon by Mrs
Faust, who lives live miles east of Deni
son. The woman pulled a revolver from
her handbag and fired five shots into
his lsxly.
When arrested Mrs. Faust said the
minister had insulted her. After Cagle
LIEUT. BERG IDENTIFIED.
Commander of Prize Ship Appam Is a
Ship Master in Peace Times.
Berlih, Via London, Feb. 8 Lieutenant
Hans Berjf, commander of the prize crew
which recently took the British steamer
Appam into Hampton Roads, has been
identified as Hans Berg of Apenraden
a naval reservist and master in peace
time of the tramp steamer Gamma, be
longing to the Abrenkiel and Clausen
line.
Berg nerved as a one-year volunteer
in the navy and was called to the colors
at the outbreak of the war and pro
moted to be a lieutenant six months
ago.
While on furlough last year Berg told
his wife in Apenraden not to be dis
turbed if she heard nothing from him
in a long time. a matter of fact, his
wife has had no lei ter from him and
been unable to write him for many
months as his address was unknown.
Sergeant Guvnenier flies alone, as did;
f.tlrrrtu niirf Xfcrcx( lint inaf!til nt n i
monoplane he uses a great biplane, nn . o port News, a., Jel. 8.-1 he Hnt
which he makes 00 miles an hour. Hc:19h arriving here yesterday re-
sreonnte.l for four irm-hines in Tim ported that two allied cruisers One
Java. nruiMi ami U'e ouier rrcncii are parroi- f uilli. ..Tl,k0 , ( , ;,
"The old Charles" is the name given 1 ' thf ('oa.st ofT thf Virginia capes. l ' ,mve but "few minutes to live, and
to the biplane which Serjeant Giiynemer b,"ivc there. m ? probability that tlio ; j (io ot want to d; lntil . have lalkp,i
with her."
Charles. Barton, a I5-ycar-old by
stander, was wounded in the arm.
Mrs. Faust, who was released on .$1,-
I'nder the new agreement the engi
neers will receive tho minimum asked
for and practically all of their other
requests have been granted.
According to the new scale, engineers
in flrat-elass plants will receive a mini
mum w age of $25 a week, engineers in
second-class plants will get a minimum
of $21 and engineers in third-class plants
a minimum wage of $18. Hoisting engi
neers will receive 34 'j cents an hour
and firemen $17 a week.
Two weeks ago the quarrymen signed
nni !a ,IPW S0H'e leaving cutters, tool sharp-
euem ami puiitMiein iu tx-iutr. i tic old
scale will expire March 1, and unless
new bills are signed for all branches
of work by that date, a suspension of
work will be probable.
Malcolm Beaton Expired Soon After
Reaching Boarding Place.
Leaving his work at the Boutwell
Milne &. Vain um quarry in Graniteville
a utile while before closing time yes
terday forenoon, because of feeling ill,
and going to the A. B. Cogswell boarding
house, Malcolm Beaton died soon after
reaching that place, death being caused
bv heart trouble.
Mr. Beaton worked all the forenoon as
usual at the quarry, where he had la
bored continuously for the past 24 years,
but as noon drew ni;h he left early,
though thinking it was only a slight ill
ness which had overtaken him. He
reached the boarding bouse around 11:45
and within ten minutes had expired.
He was born in Scotland ()! years ago,
coming to America when about eight
years of age. It was around 2.3 years ago
when he came to Bane and soon after
commenced work on "the hill," where he
had ever since been employed. He never
married.
Three brothers survive, Murdo of Web
sterville, John of Seattle, Wash., and
Angus, who is located somewhere in the
West; also one sister, Mrs. Crista Morri
son of Lake 'Megan tic, Canada, and a
nephew, Donald Beaton of Wcbsterville.
1 he funeral will be held from the Pres
byterian church in Wclisterville Wednes
day afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev. Fred
Me Veil officiating. Burial will take place
in the Wilson cemetery.
REFUSE NEGLECTED
BY THE ROADSIDE
On the Other Hand
Was Now an''
Commer
Vhero
WAS ABERDEEN WOMAN.
and deadly precision, at the same time tllat the fllIip'1 government expect other
nianoeuvering his aeroplane with great
skill.
WANTED UNITED MEXICAN MOVE
The German steamer Gamma js a ves
sel of 2.2:U Ions. She was reported last
in Nrt at Rotterdam.
HAS 1,429,171 PRISONERS.
Germany Has a Task to Look After the
Captives.
Lerlin, Feb. 8, (wireless to Savville.)
"A total of 1.42H.171 enemy soldiers
to-dy ar prisoners of wr in Ger
many," tho Overseas agency an
nounce.! yesterday. "This is not inrlu
ir .f -prisoners mad by German troop
and left in Austria Hungary to shorten
the transport.
-In addition P.?V cannon. 7.700 mili
tary carriage and 3.'"0 machine prim
I. are !" conveyed to (Germany, tnee
not including numerous rannon and ma
chine puns destroyed by the enemy be
fore capture and tb.s n4 at one by
trf-rnun troops.
-T. nuirt-r of t.? UWs tic
are t)!l ft 1-T ve it U;. V
Von Hentz, German Admiral, Favored
International Intervention.
London, Feb. 8. Interesting additions
to the Von Papen correspondence ro I"1
contained in a Parliamentary puper is
sued last nijfht. The paper gives trans
lations of all the document taken from
Capt. Franz Von Papen, former German
military attache at Washington, and
the full entries of bis bank account,
with facsimilies of checks and stubs.
The only revelation historically im
portant is that Admiral von Hintz. who
was German minister to Mexico, in the
spring of 1914, favored international In
tervention. Capt. Karl Boy-ed, former German na
val attache at Washington, wrote to
Captain Von Papen opposing Admiral
von Hintz' view and strongly defending
IVesident Huerta.
Col. Herwarth of the German staff,
wrote that the American military at
tache at Berlin, Major, I)nv'hore, who
left (iermany early in 1915, was a reg
ular bearer of 1,-tters to German ofli-
ciaU in America.
prizes captured by the mysterious Ger
man raider to lie brought to Hampton
Roads.
Collector Hamilton said last night he
had received no word from Washington
concerning the status of either the Ap
pam or of the 13 Germans, formerly
prisoners of England, who requested that
they lie allowed to land from the Ap
The Appam yesterday was- al
lowed to load 200 tons of coal for port
use.
Mrs. Agnes H. Miller of Prospect Street
Died To-day.
Mrs. Agnes H. Miller, wife of Edward
H. Miller, passed away at her home, R(i
Prospect street, this morning at 12:50
o'clock, the end following a lingering ill
ness of two years' duration. Besides her
husband, the surviving relatives are a
daughter, Miss Katherine H. Miller;
three sisters, one of whom is Mrs. James
Miller of Philadelphia, Pa., and the other
two residing in Scotland. Two brothers,
lame Mosie and Alexander llosie, reside
in Scotland.
Mrs. Miller wan born Agnes Hosie in
Aberdeen, fScotland, April 17, 1878. She
came to Barre 11 years ago and her mar
riage to Mr. Miller took place in this
rtv rcb, 10, 1!(08. Since her marnape
Mrs. MJIler had revisited her former
home in Scotland.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock
Rev. J. B. Reardon, pastor of the I'ni-
versalist church, will be the officiating
clergyman and interment will In- made m
Hope cemetery.
MRS. WILLIS BLANCHARD.
SUSPECT WAS NOT DUP0NT.
Fugitive from State Prison Was Thought
to Be at Roxbury This Morning.
The sheriff and police departments at
Montpelier were made alert early this
Montpelier Woman Had Been ia Poor
Health Several Years.
Mrs. Willis Blanchard died at 3 o'clock
this morning at her home on Barre street.
Montpelier. She had been in poor health
for the past five or six years and for
several weeks her condition had been crit
ical. She was born in Montpelier. her
maiden name being Ellen Maria Kins
man, and she was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George L. Kinsman. The date
of her birth was Dec. 3, I8,"4. She had
lived practically all her life in Mont
pelier. She was married to Mr. Blan
chard on Sept. 8. 18S0. Mr. Blanchard is
eorge
cousin.
Mrs. Blanchard wag a member of the
DESPITE THREAT
VOTED TO REPORT
BILL FAVORABLY
Private Armor Plate Manufacturers Told
Senate Committee They Would Raise
Price of Armor Plate If Govern
ment Operates Factories.
Washington. D. C, Feb. 8. The pri-
000 bonds, returned home with her bus-j morning bv report that Alfred Dupont, I !rr on.! er " !? 8urvl,nB- ''tf01;
band, who had Wn summoned after the escaped prisoner who was serving ' 'der of Burlington is a cousi
flu .li.ioiin.r ininior,. iu ii,f', .i.i ii ti.' nrimn l,,n , Illaiichard wag a member of tl
said there was slight hope for Cagle's seen in the Roxbury station. SncritT i C,IT'.U of lf Meaeiah' and was promi
recovery. Mrs. Faust subsequently said, I Tracy got into communication with the
according to deputy sheriffs, that the j Roxbury station agent and obtained a
minister had slandered her and she had description of the man. but after some
time it was ascertained that the man
was not Dupont. Two Northlield ofii
cers went to Roxbury.
For a half an hour or more, about 4
o'clock, the wires between Roxbury and
Montpelier and St. Albans were busy
as the station agent at Roxbury was
not decided as to the best course to pur
sue with the suspect.
shot in revenge.
INDIANS THREATEN WAR.
Hopi
Tribe Became Angered When
Tribesman Was Killed.
Phoenix, Ariz., Feb, 8. Five thousand
residents ia the northeastern part of
Arizona are alarmed over the reports
that the Hopi tribe of Xavajo Indians
were threatening to go on the war path,
according to reorts received here last
night. Approximately 2.'i,000 Indians are
living on the Xavajo reservation, but it
was not known what proimrtion of them
were involved in the theartened upris
ing. '
J lie llopis liecame angered, it was
said, when one of their number was shot
and killed several davs ago bv police
FELL INTO SCALDING VAT.
11.- Tl.
l.-tter from f.dward Lvell Vox, an i i . '
American coreNmdcnt in Berlin, con-' , e
vate armor plate manufacturer notified
the Senate naval committee to-day that loflieers. The Indian opened fire on the
they would raise the pri, e of armor ph1leJl,',,1'; 'T", ,,""-v attp"1l1t"' ' rrest
. ' , .. ' .. 1 ia fellow tribesman and one was killed
eiitf a in ii v ongre uecme o creel
or purchase armor plate factories fur
............ v , ,,.,,,, r,.,,. i .
tained an unfavorable opinion of tlii?'1 ,."
American ambassador. Jame W. Gerard.
"JERRY-FARRAR MARRIED
Opera Si.nger Did as She Promised and
Married Loa-Tellegen.
New York. Feb. f. ;,-raMine fairar,
the opera singer, and Ixui-Telh-gen, an
actor, were married at ne.n to-dar at
the home of Mis Karrnr's parent. Mr.
and Mr. Sidney l. Karrsr. (n!v a few
personal friend wee pr---ent. Tla
ctmple plan to vi t Ilaaaii and .lopoai at
the r!e of their ri'pvtive tlo-atrxal
eeaon.
After a brief consideration, the com
mittee al-o ordered favorably reportci a
bill aiitlforiring the expenditure of eVrfrtt..
iMl to equip tiie Mare I-!n, navy yard
for Katth-ship rotiMnn-ti' n and $ii.k1
to rnlaige the facilities of the Xew York
yard; also a lull piovidini; for the rn
traiiee of r'M addu ional niiilshipmen at
Annali next .lune. Tliee two bills
-ed tiie oue yesterday.
The vide on rep"ttmr tUe armor phtte
tiill a nine to tl-ree. t !'ruian Tiuiiuii
and Ser,ttr s'lwn. Brian. .'"'i!i'n
of Miie. t liiltn. I! !.in and IMtn.an.
ie!;iert. an i lrp an I poind tr.
liuW,inn. lote-I it an ! Senator P n
ro. 1U' I ;th of Miii.ijn, I
r.ubiian, rt'ed aa;n-t iU
by the oll'ner. ae"ording to information
leeched by Thomas Flynn, I'nited States
district attorney.
Ihe f-hooting occurred near Ie's Fer
ry, a crossing on the (.rand Canyon of
Arizona, alut ."s mile tumth of the
Arizona-1 tali lmundary line. Word of
the threatened trouble m first, brought
to Flaa'taf bv an Indian runner.
WILL ERECT CATHOLIC CHURCH.
William Davis Was Terribly Injured at
Bradford.
The Vermont industrial accident lioard
re-eived information this morning of a
serious accident which occurred vester-
dsy at Bradford, William Davis, an em
ploye of the firm of Church and Hooker,
veneer manufacturers, falling into one
of the vatx. The man was so badly
scalded t'wit his removal from the prem
iums was t deeineV adv isable by the doc
tors calleti and bis recovery is doubt
ful. The man slipel while engaged In
his duties. He is 45 years of age and
single.
nent in social mffairs in Montpelier until
her poor health compelled her to give up
those activities.
The funeral will be held at the bouse
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock, Rev.
I C. Carson officiating. Friends are re
quested not to send flowers.
HAD BEEN ILL A WEEK.
Mrs. A. R. Canales Died Soon After 'Be
ing Taken to Heaton Hospital.
A few hours after being taken to Heat
on hospital in Montpelier for treatment.
Mr. A. R. ( anales of Montpelier died
from pneumonia, death ensuing at 8
o'clock. She had been ill for a week.
Mrs. Canales maiden name wis Car
man Gomez, and she was born in Spain
21 years ago. being the daughter of Mr.
and Mr. C. Gomez. She leave her hus
band, to whom she was married a lear
ago; four sisters. Anita. Philomena. Ma
ria and Ixmisii Gomez, all of Monfp.dier;
and one brother. Manual Gomez f North-
field. Mr. Canales bad lived some time
in Northlield.
The funeral will le held dne,l;iy
morning at 8 o'clock, and interment will
be at Northlield.
JUMPED ON BURGLAR'S BACK.
Oa Large Lot in North Trey Village, Con
struction to Start at Once.
North Troy, reb a. The Roman Cath
olic dir-re of eimir;t ha reoeh ed
eot.veyani e from Mr. and Mr. Nai!on
J.tidrm of a bn.l iiig M in tbj till re.
en l.ih tKe rmt. of a t"athM:e
:.!:rb ttte t once. Tie Id
Is a fr,.ritn-e o 11 Iff n He-Man-!
venue anl -'1 lo t on I'Niuct Mreet. ter ttnic;
But Mrs. John M. Tierney of New York
Couldn't Hold Him Down.
New York. Feb. 8.- Mm. John M. Tier
ney. i! of a mpreme court ju-tiee. en-
DIED OF PNEUMONIA.
Mrs. John M. Stevenson of Washington
Street HI a Week.
Mr. John M. Meienon of pel Wb
intrlott -fr-'t pa--l aav at !' o'cl iok
thi forenoon alter a weck' illnei with
countering a burglar riiiing a safe in ! rn unionia. hai ins ti-n rriliciiH v ill onl v
her home here last ii'gl t prng nponja A or t".
hi 1. k and attempted to pjn l,im to Mr. Murnwn' p-i.'n name n
the R or while he tw-reamed for !. t.l.n t mpl!l. an.I she a N,rn in
1 ne intruder, however, aliook her off , A !r .!.--. Se-tj.ind. .. years ar. v5.e!anl p-int n- and tjtim-ry ani,rl;
and -aped t'lrough a in.low withtwa married to Vr. -irun-i in M-'-nt- j f Anna RolrrtMw. I2. Ur-:
eieml t n.snd dojlar in jeaelry, in-'--!,er on A ard ,-. thatUr d.par1me.t ..' I . ra-h pail ont ;
fiiHT.g a !i anion-! -, lace be f.a I fme I t i I lilea in -f- and n i f. ..!!'. 1.V.. ref-ai-. tl le
t..ra fr-.m Mr. Twrney'a t!.rt -1'iX'r. - I arrr-. Tler are no n-r r. '..- m'
with bia. tL j country ec.-j the busln L (Crrftti tm focrta f?
A small i of complaints, in which
the town cfi t, an ancient subject of
murmuring on the part of those who liko
to take issue with its occasional diflee
tions, the garbage system and the un
tidy appearance of North Main street on
a wind-swept February day, figured as
the most serious factors, was considered
at the regular meeting of the city coun
cil last night. There was a big grist of
warrants to approve, the accumulation of
a month's business in divers departments,
then came the complaints, and after that
the city fathers sought solace from tho
prying press by retiring behind closed
doors.
With a degree of regularity the jrriev.
ances agaiiwt the garbage collecting sys
tem have been received ever since tho
contract for collections was 'awarded in
the summer of l'J1.5. Just as often as
someone raised his voice against tho
workings of the system, someone else
was sure to come forward to the defense
of the collector and his method of collect
ing. Last night it was Alderman Glys
son, who, pointing to specific instances of
alleged dereliction, described the garbage
system as a farce. He expressed his
opinion that the city is squandering $50
each month without an adequate return
for the money. Alderman Shurtleff said
he saw the garbage man pass his house
quite often, a fact which, as he auid, in
dicated that the collector is still on tho
job. The memlier from ward three wat
in favor of giving the system a thorough
try-out before condemning it. Alderman
Rossi quoted folks in the north end as
saying that their garbage, deposited reg
ularly in proper receptacles, was beim'
neglected. Alderman Ilealv described a.
barrel of worthless dry batteries which
someone deposited on an Averill street
corner. Along came schoolboys and a
part of the contents of the barrel were
soon distributed about the premises of
several abutting land owners. He didn't
think that the collector could be ex
pected to gather in garbage that had
been sprinkled all over the lot. No ac
tion was taken.
Alderman Keast shied an arrow at the
town clock when he protested against
the practice of neglecting the lights on
the dials. It seemed to him that the city
should show its appreciation of the fre'o
electricity donated by the Consolidated
Lighting Co. by furnishing the fixture
with suitable globes. Various means of
scaling the tower, which was said to be
the main obstacle encountered by tho
clock caretaker, were dincussed and tho
matter was referred to the property com
mittee. Complaints concerning the al
leged untidy condition of North Main
street involved the promiscuous distribu
tion of newspapers along the thorough
fare. It was intimated tluit the wind
was measitreably responsible for the ap
pearance of the, street, although peoplo
who dump newspaper into the back
yards of stores along the business sec
tions were held as accessories before tho
fact. The health committee was asked
to investigate.
From Mavor J. G. Armstrong of Pitts
burg, Pa., the council received a commu
nication inviting the city to send threo
delegates to the good roads conference to
be held m the Smokv city Feb. 2S to
March 3. Action on the invitation was
deferred, although it was intimated that
any committee of three whose members
were anxious to pay their own fare to
the conference might stand an exi client
chance of being elected by the council.
On the favorable recommendation of thn
building inspector, C. W. McMillan k
Son were granted a permit to build an
annex to their boxing plant on .Mmk
wcll street.
Paying the Bills.
In the budget of warrants submitted
for pavment were a number of sizeable
bills. The list follows: C. W. Averill &.
Co., $14. II, repairs and supplies, street,
city building and fire accounts; Barre
Electric Co.. .$11.0"). supplies and repairs,
street, water, city building, tire tnd po
lice account; R. I ( lark. feed. .$.'12.72,
street department: Consolidated Light
ing Co., fii!'2.20, lighting, street, lighting
streets, rity building and tire accounts:
Dwinell Hardware Co.. $7.!2, axes, street
account; engineering department, f.Vt, la
bor, street and water accounts: N. D.
Phelps Co., SIH.".). supplied and repairs,
street account; Bey nobis & Son,
supplies, street and water account;
Smith. Whitcomb &. Cook t o.. re
pairs, street account: Howard Cole,
I7."0. salary, street sprinkling and en
gineering aci-ounts; water department,
1.1 S. use of water, etc., in building
Washington street sidewalk, aidenxlk ac
count; John-ton-Pay tie Co.. f 14.42. sup
plies, engineering, nater and printing
and stationery account; Frank O. Lee,
?12". saUry a engineer and water u
prrintondctit ; .lame Mackav. ?."."i.2t;. sal
ary and ca!i paid out. lry and mis
cellaneous ccoiint; M. P;"nd. ?fl.o',
alarv from July to Ie.-endr; . M.
Krwi 4.4". sulnrv a alderman; Hort
,t !, Iionrvesu. S-V2". water rebate. wtr
account: lotier I'r.i.. tf.-V. team h:re,
wat-r a--cei;d; II. Mueller Mfg. Co..
jss( sup) be. w it-r a.-rooi.t ; Perry
Auto to.. .".7,.i4. aoto sof flie. water
acooui t : N. -I. Ro'tcrt. lo.'i. print-n
and ttioi-erv. tret aprinlbng. water
