y
REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Siluations, Help Wanled and Other
Wants, Sec Section Seven
imt
66th YEAR
VOMIMK 00
VI MIIKIl :?o
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
TEN PAGES.
FEDERAL TROOPS !
CHECK LOOTING j
IN OTAY VALLEY'
Sailors and Marines He
cover Bodies of 29
Storm Victims.
TOTAL LOSS OF LIFE NOT
EXPECTED TO EXCEED 60
New Flood in Tia Juana River
Indicates Bursting of
Morena Dam.
pkoi'LK in path wahnkd
No Tram of Six IVrsons Sai'l to
Have Reen <'arrlc<l Out to Sen
on a Hunch House.
KAN* DIEGO. C AI., January 30 (by
raldlo to San Francisco).?LootinK. de
Ecribei] by Hear-Admiral Fullnm. com
manding the raciflo Kescrvp Fleet, as
"Urn wor.'t I have ever seen," broke out
to-day In the Otay Valley, lloodswept
by the breaking of the Otay 'lam last
Friday. The lower valley was turned
Into an armed camp, patrolled by ma
rines and sailors from the battleship
Oregon and the cruisers Milwaukee and
South Dakota In San Diego Hay with
orders to shoot looters on sight.
Th.' sailors and marines toiled hard
to recover the bodies of those who loht
thetr Uvea in the disaster, and at sun
down twenty-nine bodies, some of
whl'-h were mutilated, had been gath
ered toirrther. The loss of life in th?'
Otay Vallev now is estimated at fifty,
while reports that (lie cloudburst in
San I,uIs }{??)? and San I'asqual Valleys
cost no moi c than ten lives brouirht th??
probalde death l>.t in this section to
sixty.
A new flood poured down the Tsxi
.luana River tn-tlny, which ha" r:sen
four fct at its mouth at the foot of
Sail Diego Hay. Official" lure said
that this undoubtedly Indicated th*
bursting of the Morena dam. sixty
miles hi-.'-k In the lulls Fea'ine that
the 1 "?.efiftt0f?,000 gallons of water re
leased by the dam would tear a new
channel for the river across the Coro
nado Strand into the sea, residents of
Imperial Heath, a hamlet on the strand,
were ordered to tlee.
JAI'ANKSK l-IHM
NEWS OK l)AM'S COt.I.A l'*E
Firvt news <if the rollnpne of tho
Morena dam came through Andrew
Ervast. city engineer of Coronadn.
Ervast. trylnir to-day to reach the Mex
ican town of Tia Juana. met a Japanese
rur.ninir alone the hank of the Tia
Juana Hiver.
"Oet back." cried the Japanese in
broker. *\ntrlish "Tell people lots of
water '? omit.--: '
Krvast could see a four-foot wave
coming down the riv-r. He turned lu.s
automobile and spread the warning.
George Cromwell. city engineer of Sr.:i
Diego and others, said that nothing hut
the breaking of the Morena dam could
have caused the flood.
Of the tweny-nine bodies recovered
in the <May Valley only six have been
ident ifled
Federal troops patrolled tne Curo
nado Strand, a long sand sj>!t offer
inn th ? only means of ingress Into the
Otay Valley, and turned back would
be sightseers. The marines, under Cap
tain ?'!t.'trles T Wesicott. Jr.. camped
in the valley while the sailors under
Ensign Hamilton O'Rrlen. of the Mll
waukee. made headquarters in the lit
tle brick schoolhouse at Otay City
Each man carried twenty rounds of
ammunition
The United States destroyer Law
rence acted as base ship, and a hos
pital squad from the Milwaukee oper
ated.!r conjunction with both fortes.
FIKT\ FA It 11 HOUSES
IX PATH OF FLOOD
Fifty farm bouses, according to per
sons acquainted with the Otay Valley,
must have rtood in the path of the
flood. It was estimated that 'rom four
to five persons occupied each, although
those housing Orientals held a largo
number.
Many of those are believed to have
had time to escape, although it would
he impossible to check in any way
against the known residents of the
valley. The estimate of flftv dead Is
considered conseravtive.
lieutenant \V. W. I'.radlev. command
ing tlie destroyer VIull, reported to
day that, he had been Unable to find any
trace of six persons said to have been
catricd out to sea on a ranch liou.se,
but It was rumored that they had been
taken of in a small boat.
Reports that the town of Tia Juana.
Lower California. had suffered heavy
damage. seemed to he confirmed to
dnv. It was said that little was left
of the new race track plant which
cost. It In said, $200,000. A large
force of workmen continued to re-en
force the Sweetwater dam in the little
valley north of the Otay Valley.
The M.ivoi of San Luis Rev headed
a committee of townsmen and ranchers
engaged in relief work In their val
ley, and it was Indicated military aid
would net l.ft needed there.
CESSATION OF RAID
AXD WO III* OF RESCUE
The bodies of three women liavo been
found In the San Luis Key region. Tho
cessation of rain is aiding the work
of rescue.
The San 1 >ieg'o and Arizona Railroad
roadbed has-been swept away in sev
eral places, and San Diego Hay is cov
ered with wreck a go or every kind.
One of the freaks of the Hood was
tho carrying away of a ponderous
Santa Fe locomotive, which was swept
out to sea. Ten housand dollars hna
been pledged here for relief work.
Telephone reports were received early
to-night from two sources that the
Cuyamaca dam at tho source of the
San Diego River, had broken, releas
ing 8,000.000,000 gallons of water.
Dies After Long Illness
IIOUKHT WIUTTBT, JH.
MEREDITH TAKES ISSUE
I WITH ATTORNEY POLLARO
i
I Member of Charter-Change Commit
tee Says Curn mission Hill [s
Constitutional.
WRITKK lilCIIMOM) SKNATORS
; Asks Thai Measure Not Mo Returned
I to City Council, Giving His Rca
I sons for Relieving It to Ho Thor
oughly Ix?Ral.
Criticizing the City Attorney for al
, losrori dllatoriness In staling wlion tho
session of the Central Amcmbly is
, nearly half over that the bill living
; to Richmond the right to change or
amend Its charter by a major At v of
those voting. Wyndhnm It Meredith,
member of tlie Civic Association and of
j the Charter-Change Committee, has ad
; dressed a b-tter to Senator I.,. O. Won.
| donburg and Delegate James K. Cannon.
: of the Itichtnond delegation In the Leg
islature, In which lie affirms that the
I proposed ?>lll ls constitutional. and in
which he urges that It be placed upon
i its passage and not be returned to the
j ? 'ty Council for amendment in con
I formlty with the construction which
'lie City Attorney places upon tho
j amendment to section 117 of the Con
i stitutlon of Virginia.
! if the section of the ConstltutiSn re
j ferred to be construed according to the
idea* of vr, follard. Mr. Meredith
j states. -*in undemocratic and prohibi
tive requirement would be inserted.
The letter of Mr. Meredith follows:
"January ."0, i f41
j "Hon. James B. Cannon and Hon. L. O.
Wendenburg:
j ^ r?entlemen.? I have Just read in the
j Sunday Times-Dispatch the extracts
f: om the belated opinion of the City
?Attorney rewarding the bill he drafted
| at the request of the Charter-Chang.
; Committee, and which was adopted by
the i ity Council without a hint from
i 11 s sworn legal adviser that, as he now
claims, it was unconstitutional, and
should be returned to that body for
amendment, although the session of the
Legislature Is now nearly half over.
rno.NorxcKs hkui ahiimkvt
TO UK t MJI.MOI K.vnc
"When the gladsome light of con
s' itutional knowledge first burst upon
that gentleman. I do not know, but I
do know that at the time the bill was
before the City Council, a member of
the Administrative Board asserted in
conversation that the bill was uncon
i stitutional, for the reason now given
by the City Attorney.
; "As now drawn, the two elections
, that would have to be held under it
| c?uld carried by a majority of those
, voting at such election. If the views
. of the City Attorney prevail with you
and the other representatives of our
I city in the Legislature, it is proposed
: at ti,is la,e <Aay to have the work of
: the Charter-Change Committee and of
the two branches cone over again and
an undemocratic and prohibitive re
j qulrement inserted, that would require
j a new charter to be adopted by a ma
j jority of the whole electorate. That
j 'S to say. If the whole number of
? qualified voters of this cltv is lfifluo
| but only 10.000 vote at the above-named'
? elections, although 5,001 vote for the
, charter, it would fail of adoption, it
? must secure at least S.001 votes for
J its adoption.
! IK AMBNDKl), WOt 1,1)
CO.ltK HACK TOO I.ATR
j "T,,c result would be either that tho
bill as amended by the Council at the
suggestion of the City Attorney would
come back to you too late for passage,
and thus the people of this city de
prived for another two years of their
j right to change their form of govcrn
j mcnt. or, If passed as amended, the
amendment would be prohibitive.
"The present law, known as the Nor
folk Jaw, contains the amendment sug
gested by the City Attorney. Norfolk
held such an election last August, and
it was carried overwhelming for the
creation of a new chartcr, but failed
because the ringstors sent out the word
to stay away from the polls, and those
in favor of charter change could not
secure a majority of the whole electo
rate, though, as I have said, they did
socuro a great majority of those voting.
"If the bill as prepared by the City
Attorney is unconstitutional, this com
munity will have to suffer the eon.se
quences of his lack of knowledge. l?ut
does the provision that the election
may bo carried by a majority of those
voting make the bill unconstitutional?
"1 afllrm, without hesitation, that
the views of tho City Attorney on this
point is as erroneous as thev are be
lated.
CONKIDRXT THAT HILL IS
Kri.LV COVSTITt TIOXA X.
"As the particular language of sec
tion 117 has not been passed on l>y our
highest court, one has to rely upon an
examination of tho whole section to
(Continued on Fourth
ROBERT WHITTEI
DIES ATHOSP1TAL
i
Administrative Board Chairman
Passes Away Quietly After
Long Illness.
HOLD FUNERAL TO-MORROW;
| Well-Known Citizen for Many
1 Years Was Prominent
! in City's Life.
i Koberl Wlilttct. Jr.. chairman of the.
I Administrative Hoard, died a'. Grace j
! Hospital yesterday afternoon at Vlf. |
loVJo'k. Report* -is to Mr. Whittet'
[condition following an operation last
' week wore encouraging t? 'lis tri?-n?ls.
: >.ut no hope f"r hi? recovery had been
' entfrt.11no<l hy the physicians'. I In
| operation was performed to alleviate
pain, anil ?*? this purpose It was sue
j Mr. Wis it let slept through
?<> I he end.
Snmo months ,u-o Mr. tt'hlttet went
to tin* home of liis sister, Mrs. Marry
llvric, of Toronto, fan., in the hop'.- --f
recuperating. His health Improved.!
, and ho returned to Richmond, and at
j tempted again to take up his duties
| He attended several meetings of the j
Administrative Hoard, hut soon be- j
' came too weakened to continue attend
'ante, and his place was filled l.y Vice
11"hairman John lllrschberg, who lias
conducted th?* work of tin.* ofllce for
several months.
Mr. Whittet was elected to his last
l> it: 1, office when the Administrative
. It ?ard was created, in 1912, and as lie (
I drew the long term he would have
| continued in office until January 1, 1!'17.
j The vacancy caused hy his death will
he filled hy temporary appointment
' tliroush the Citv Council, which will
probably take action in a special meet
ing.
(AMI: TO II It'll MOM)
WIIKN TKV YRAKS Ol.l)
>'r Whittet v.as horn on May 12.
' 1SP5, at Perth, Scotland, the son of
Robert and Jane (Altcheson) Whittet.
He was about ten years old when his ,
parents emigrated to the L*i;ited
States and settled tlrst near \Vil
liiimshur?. Later they came to..Rich- j
I mond, atid the elder Whittet eslah- i
lished one of the pioneer printing plants
1 of the city at Tenth and Main Streets,
! the site on which the American Na- |
1 tionnl Rank now stands. Tlie firm was
engaged more largely In publishing
pamphlets for the Presbyterian Church.
Placed in the public schools at nn
early ace, Mr. Whittet continued pur
ine his studies through Hampden-Sid
? ney College. which he left to take tip
the operating end of his father's busi
ness. In November. 1S02. he married
; Miss Marjorie MacLean, sister of Dr. H.
; Stuart MacLean.
Aft?-r tlie death of his father, Mr.
Whittet took charge of the firm of
Whittet & Shepperson, and later
founded the Richmond Type and Elec
trotype Foundry, and later encased in
many other Interest:1, which made htm
widely known In the affairs of the city.
Entering into politics when a com
paratively younc man. he served in the
Iloard of Aldermen for eighteen years
j front Clay Ward, and at the time of
I his election to the Administrative
Hoard, hud nerved four years as presi
dent of the upper branch of the City
i Council lie served with distinction as
a presiding officer. and on several occa
j sions acted as Mayor of the city.
1 JOHN IIIItSCIIHKIt?; l"V\S
ltn.lt TIM lit Ti: TO 111 >T
His announced platform, published at
ithe beginning of his campaign for the
I Administrative Hoard, outlining hi.*
views on public improvements, was
' made the basis ??f an extended article
? in the Norfolk Ledger-Dispatch, in
| which the attention of Norfolk's Hoard
1 of Control was called to many of the
' suggestions made by him. it was also
?stated hy that newspaper* that such a
! man would be a creat acquisition to
i Norfolk's governing hoard. Desperate
ly fought by certain political cotnbina
? tlons. and without the support of the
i Citizens' Association, his campaign was
j one ot* the i?"st sj>? ctacular of the race,
In commenting last night on the
death of his confrere, Vice-Chairman
1 llirschberg. of the Administrative
j Hoard, paid high tribute to Mr. Whittet.
: saying that it was always his effort
j to serve the people sincerely and well,
?and that his charity was unbounded. Mr.
Whittet was affiliated with several or
I ganizations, but he was never tied nor
bound by them, ami it was always said
' of him that he achieved his ambition
? to pivo service to the people.
j Robert Lciflty. Jr.. who was Mr.
! Whit tot's campaign manager when the
I latter ran for the Administrative Hoard,
j and a lifelong friend, ???id of him last
i night:
j "The death of 'Hob' Whittet conies to
j me as a personal loss because of a
friendship of nearly thirty years. Ho
I possessed a trait which gathered
j around him scores of friends from
amongst his associates in the printing
shop, in business and social relations.
His loyalty to friends, uniform courtesy
and manner of speech were factors that
! marked his career in the Hoard of Al
| dermen and went with him as a mem
ber of the Administrative I'.oard.
i ADM IMSTIt ATI V10 1IOAltl>
Ull.I. IIONOIt HIS MKMOIIY
"During his entire public llfo his
vote was along conservative lines, al
ihough at times the subject of criti
cism at tho moment, yet generally
^confirmed later on in the fullness of
time.
"As an employer, lie was held in MkIi
esteem b,v those with whom he was
closely associated, and in his political
endeavors always had the most active
support. In his private life he was (ho
genial gentleman, and those privileged
to know his home were aware of the
presence of n kind and indulgent hus
band and father.
"The son of a noble sire, he passes
on to his only son tho name of an
honored record, Robert Whittet."
Suitable nction will be taken by the
Administrative Hoard and by council
4CoulliUi?d oa fcUieond Pago.)
CHARTER CHANGE
ABSORBING ISSUE
Question of Constitutionality of
Commission Bill Overshadows
All Local Matters.
MEREDITH HOLDS IT LEGAL
Norfolk Also Shares Difficulty,
but Its Representatives Ate
Not Alarmed.
For the moment the question of the
constitutionality of tho Richmond
charter-commission bill and /he best
avenue toward relief has overshadowed.
:it bast as far as this cl?y is concerned.
fvc;ry other Issue before the Uoneral
A sseinbly.
Wyndliain Ft. Meredith. ?ne of the
most active members of the Charter
Change Committee, and a well-lmown
legaI authority, in a letter to Senators
iVninoit and Wendenburg, declares the
measure, as framed, to be constitu
tional. despite the opinion of the City
Attorney, which he charaoterizes "as
erroneous as belated."
Hr. f?. It. Anderson, vice-president
and a prominent member of the Civic
Association, declares, in a statement
made last night. that If the provision
allowing the majority of voteis in the
election to accept a charter from a
popularly chosen commission is uncon
stitutional. that the Constitution should
he changed. l>r. Anderson declares
that he is certain that the citizen* will
not permit dilatory methods to defeat
the principle of a charter commission
.NOIlI-MH.lv AI.SO SUA II ICS
IX RICHMOND'S DIFFICULTY
Richmond's deep interest in the ad
justment of the constitutional difficulty
is shared also by the city of Norfolk,
which has also introduced a charter
commission bill, now in the Senate on
its second reading. The Norfolk bill
differs from the Richmond measure in
only one material particular?namely,
in the number of sinners it requires
for the petition asking for the appoint
I ment of a charter commission. The
Richmond hill requires the petition to
be signed by C'. per cent of the quali
fied voters, while the Norfolk measure
requires only a number equal to 15
! per cent of the voters who participated
In the last municipal election.
' The constitutional doubt raised by
\ City Attorney Pollard, with respect to
1 the local bill, applies with equal force
to the bill Introduced for the city of
Norfolk. In both measures provision
, Is made *->r. the creation of a eonimls
? slon specifically limited to the duty of
framing a "special" form of govern
ment. the ratification of which, accord
ing to Mr. Pollard's construction of the
Constitution, requires a majority of the
total qualified electorate.
i While the question of the size of the
electorate that will be required to ap
prove the special form of government
evolved by the charter commission, was
not raised in any sitting of the local
Charter-Change Committee, it is under
stood that this question was fully dis
| cussed in Norfolk, anil that tho le^al
I advisers of the Norfolk authorities held
that th.e approval of only n majority
of those participating in the election
would be r.eerle?l
, \oitroi.K itii/i. to <;?
TilItOl <? II AS DIIAFTKD
Senator Matthews, of Norfolk, patron
of the charier commission bill of that
' city, has so far not become alarmed
over the situation, and has taken no
steps to amend his bill. He* has indi
' catod to some of ins colleagues his in
1 tention to rely on the leiral advice ren
dered the Norfolk authorities and al
low his bill to g? to its passage in its
present form.
In the meantime, thousands of char
ter commission enthusiasts in Rich
| mond an 1 Norfolk are deriving small
; comfort from the situation. City At
j torney Pollard, of Richmond, bas seen
, no reason to retreat frotn his opinion
that the Richmond bill undertakes to
prescribe for the adoption of a spe
cial form of government the approval
of an electorate sm tiler than is ie
qu.red by the Constitution, and holds to
the belief that the bill if passed in its
j present form will be inoperative.
One thing is regarded as all but tm
! possible?to secure at any time the ap
proval of a majority of the qualified
'electorate for anj radical plan of re
i Tot m. In such an election every qual
i ified voter who fails to exercise his
i ballot Is counted against the proposed
t reform. With between 1 and 14,000
men qualified in Hi ?liinond. and pos
sibly 10.000 more who could be induced
I to quality if their interest were suf
j ficiently aroused, it would be found
next to impossible to secure the sup
port of a majority of the qualified
j electorate in Richmond for any radical
; reform plan about which there was
i anything like a moderate division of
opinion.
! >i.\\ r.ic \i> to en \ \<:k
in co.vstitction
If the constitutional bar proves to
I be effective, the only promise of radi
i cal charter reform for Richmond and
jollier cities of the State lies in the
j constitutional amendment that is pro
! posed in a bill that lias been introduced
; by Senator tioolrlck. The effect of this
' resolution would be to reduce tho size
j of the electorate required by section
j 117 of the Constitution for the ratillca
! tIon of "special" forms of government,
5 making it merely si majority of the
! voters participating in the particular
I election, instead of a majority of the
j qualified electorate
Cndor the most favorable progress,
this amendment could not become effec
tive in less than three years. In order
to change the Constitution, the amend
ment must bo passed first by two suc
cessive Legislatures and then ratified
by the people. Again, (he Constitu
tion requires thai such amendment
shall l?e approved by a majority of the
qualified voters of the State.
Should the tioolrlck amendment he
promptly ratified at every turn, it could
not become law until the summer of
JftlS. The Legislature of 1020. there
(^j^j'llnuod on lilghth Pago.)
REVISED SHIP BILL !
READY FOR HOUSE
Will Be Introduced by Chairman
Alexander, Who Gives
Out Details.
HE WILL FIGHT FOR PASSAGE
Modification of Government-Op
eration Feature Is Most
Striking Change.
_ j
WASHINGTON*. January 30.--Hot.itIf j
of the nriv administration shi|> bill to j
build :i merchant marine. and naval
auxiliaries, revised to command the
votes of dissenting Democrats, were
?nade public to-niurltt for the tlrsl time.
It will lie introduced to-morrow in 111 ?
house l?y Chairman Alexander, of the I
Merchant Marine Committee, who- will
lead tlie tight for its pn?s.iye on the j
floor.
Public hearings, at which President
Wilson and others will be asked to
testify, will begin in a few (lays.
The striking difference between 'he i
new bill and the one which failed In I
the .Senate last year are mo lili??ation
of the government operation feature, j
and broadening <of the powers of the i
shipping board, which it is proposed to ]
ereate. Government operation, under
the new bill, would be entered upon |
j only as a last resort if private capital
falls to respond to the enterprise. The i
shipping board would be empower! d to
j regulate all interstate, and foreign con
I merce in American waters, as the In
! terstate Commerce Commission now
regulates interstate railway traffic. j
! Every effort has been made to draw
the bill so as include American capital
| to help upbuild the merchant marine,
'and to protect it from unfair foreign
i competition, and government vessels
only would operate on lines where
American service was furnishing satis
factory service, at fair rates. The out
land-out government ownership feature
of the old bill was generally conceded
to have been one of the primary causes
' for the failure of the measure.
t
? CA 1.1,5 FOIl $.-.0,000,000
\ NX I A I. AI'I?UOI?ltl VTION
An annual appropriation of JSO.ftOP,
t 000 for the purchase or lease of vessels
i to be obtained by the sale of Panama
I Canal bonds and the appointment of the
t shipping board of Ave members, are
the tlrst objects of the new bill. The
! Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary
! of Commerce would be ex-ofllcio mem
i bors of the board, and the other three
'members would be "men of large prac
' tical experience" in foreign commerce.
They would be appointed by the Presi
dent and receive $10,000 a year. A sec
retary would receive $r,,ooo a year, and
the remainder of the board employees,
except an attorney, come from the civil
; service lists of the Federal government.
I With the $50,000,000 the board would
organize a corporation to lease, buy,
i charter or build ships. It would be
restricted to the purchase of as many
American-made vessels as possible.
Ships constructed in foreign countries
would be limited to foreign trade only.
Tho board would offer stock to eitizen.i
of the United States, and. if all were
; subscribed, the board need never oper
ate a ship. Failing to interest private
! capital, however, the board could oper
ate \ easels.
Foth vessels controlled by the board
and those which had passed into private
j hands by lease or charter would ba
I subject at all times to the call of the
> President in case of war. Members of
Ithe crews and ofllcers could volunteer
at any time for service in the naval
i auxiliary, and would receive from $.'> to
j 51 r, a month from the time of enlist
i meat.
. I.IilF.lt A L It Kfil" I.ATION S
FOIt I . S. SillI'l'F.MS
l.iberal regulations for United State.<
shippers and more rigid rules for for
eign interests are contemplated by that
part of the bill prescribing the powers
of the shipping board, llere are some
1 of the features of those clauses:
The shipping board and Interstate
[Commerce -'ommlssion, acting jointly,
j could permit railroads to make special
; rates for shipments in connection with
j steamships to encourage interior points
I to participate in the foreign trade.
All common carriers, foreign and do
Imestic, operating in American waters
t would be forced after January !>, Ifil7,
.to get revocable licenses from the
board.
No vessel registered or enrolled un
der the laws of the Fnited States troubl
he sold to n foreign country without
! permission from the board. Failure to
i observe that restriction would suli.ect
i the vessel to refusal of clearance pa
j pers. and the owner to a charge of
j committing a misdemeanor.
Vessels might b?? resold or leased
| only to other United States clti/.cus,
and with the board's approval.
'Many are interested to know if the
j biil contains a provision authorizing
| ownership, and operation of merchant
j vessels by the government," Kepresen
itative Alexander said to-night. "It
' provides that the board may. if neces
' sary. subscribe to and purchase the
I majority of the stock in a corporation
i and vote such stock, and d<> all things
i necessary to protect the interest of the
i government, and may at .wiy time, with
t the approval of the President, sell such
I stock.
! TO K.VF.HFISF, I'DW l.lt
OM.Y AS I,AST It KNOUT
"Vessels owned by such corporation
or corporations will be operated ami
? their business conducted like tlu> btisl
! ness of any other corporation, except
that the government will retain con
trol by stock of majority owners. This
is suggested as the plan of ownership,
control and operation of vessels by the
Panama Railroad Company, in which
the government owns all the stock, and
which has been in operation for ten
or twelve years past. I would make it
plain, however, that the power would
not. in my opinion, he exercised except
as a last resort, and then only to meet
conditions that privato concerns are
(.Continued on Eighth Page.)
U. S. Submarine Missing
Since Early Sunday
<11 Vltl.KSTON. S. .Inmiarr :tn.
? IteportM rriit'liril lirri> to-nip;lit
from iippiirctitly reliable nhiiihts
flint line of (he four Miihiiilir Iiich of
l In* lv t.?pe, 011 route from Northern
ports lo PeiiNiicnlii, IMn.. It ml lirrn
missing h I not* I o'clock Similar
morning. f 21 |iltiiII 11?-1*jii ini 11 C.
Ilrjnnt, comma tidnit t of Hie < linrlrs
ton \nvy-Vnril, refused to nlllriii or
tleiij I lii? report, referring nil t|iien
I lo ii s lo VVsisliiiiKlon.
The monitor TtillttltiiHMef nml three
?ii limn rlueM of the lv tjpe. hiiIiI to
lie the li-l, K-i! iiiiiI li-tl. nrrlveil off
i ImrleMton liar curly to-nl?;lit. hut
iliil not enter on account of the foK.
The liuoy temler Milliard* e left
t'ImrleMton apparently liinaril tape
Itomjiln, on' the 1'iiroliiiii eoiiit,
ttnrtli vt tirtl of here, whore It mix
mi I d the Mil Ii him r I ne IVIIH Inst Nichti'd.
S(ilicit on l-'riiltiy.
NKW VDIIK, Junuary :tO.?The
Niilinitirlneo K-l, K-12. K-5 iiiiiI K-tl.
eueh etirrj inn n i-re? of from nl\
to cl?;lit men, Mulled from here on
l-'rldny for Key Went for training
mimciivrrM nlonic the Florida ronil.
They were neeoiii|inuleil liy the miiIi
iiuiriiie tender Ttil In luiMMoe,
AMERICANS FIRST OF ALL,
1 MATTER WHERE BORN
Tltnt Will He Keynote of Wilson's
Message to Country's Foreign
Horn Citizens.
SPKAKS IX MlliWAUlvKK TO-DAY
His Address Expected to He One of
Most Important of Middle West
ern Trip?To-Night lie Will Speak
An Chicago.
nLEVELAXD. January 30.?Presi
dent Wilson loft Cleveland to-night for
.Milwaukee, where he plans to deliver
one of the most important speeches of
his Middle Western trip to-morrow.
Ho is believed to have sounded the key
note of his Milwaukee speech In a
telegram sent to-day to Senator OUIe
James, of Kentucky, to he read he
fore a meeting- of Austrlans i 11 Xew
York. The telegram follows:
"May I not send my warmest greet
ings to the meeting, and will you not
express for me my very deep and
sincere confidence in the entire loyalty
and patriotism of the great body of our
fellow-citizens who have strengthened
and enriched America by adding their
own nm of the nations which they havo
turned their stocks to make a great
! America?"
? His Mi-:ssat;!?: to amkhic.ws.
.\0 MAI-IK It WIlKltK noil .V
Because of the large foreign-born
population In Milwaukee, the President
is expected to urge all Americans, no
? matter where born, to stand for
j A me! lea first. 11 e will also repeat his
j warning that the United States must
| be prepared because of (he uncertainty
| of the international situation.
The President will deliver brief plat
j form speeches at Waukcgan, Ills;
; Kenosha. Wis.; Haelne. Wis., and pos
, sihly in other towns through which his
train will pass before reaching Mllwau
j kee at noon. At I o'clock he will ad
! dress a public meeting in the Ainll
1 torium. and will leave at t o'clock for
Chicago to speak to-morrow night.
| The President and members of his
I party have been well pleased with the
success ot' the meetings in Pittsburgh
. and Cleveland. The arrangements
j have l>een strictly nonpartisan, and his
I demands for increased preparedness
j have met with warm responses from
' his audiences. While he has talked
with some Democratic leaders, politics
has not been discussed.
Advisers of the President said to-day
that in practically every speech ho will
| continue to emphasize the possibility
| that the United Slates may be drawn
into the European struggle as the rea
1 son why he believes the army and navy
I should be strengthened without delay.
lie is giving this as the reason why
| he has left Washington to appeal to
j the country.
wii.i. co.vri.Yi i: si itokt.
imsi'i ri: opposition
j Notwithstanding the opposition of
[Chairman liay. of the House Military
Affairs Committee, and other congres
sional leaders in Washington to the
administration's continental army plan,
President Wilson expects to continue
to support it, giving tin- reason that
the nation needs a trained reserve force
under the authority of the Federal gov
ernment. lie has taken care, however,
to say that the National Cuard should
also he strengthened.
With Mrs. Wilson, the President
spent Sunday here ?iuietlv. Apparent
ly ihe President was sill! fresh, in
spile ot t lie busy day he spent yester
day. At II oclock they attended ser
vices :n the Kuelid Avenue Presby
terian Church, where Itev. Alexander
.McCatlin, an old friend of .Mr. Wilson,
is the pastor.
.Mis. Wilson received three Indians
in her room this afternoon, and was
given .i swoetgrass basket l>\ Princess
tiowah lleah Dongwa, of the St. Itegis
reservation in New York. Chief
Thundering Water and Chief i.ouis
Solomon stolidly shook hands with
Mrs. Wilson. They said they wanted
to meet her because they had heard
she was descended from Pocahontas.
The President will arrive in Chicago
at 0> o'clock to-morrow evening, and
after dining privately, will address a
pu hi it meeting in the Auditorium.
Coventor Dunne, of Illinois, will be
among I hose receiving the party, i in
Tuesday morning the. President will
leave for Dos Moines, Topeka and Kan
sas City.
PHKSIDKNT SAM TK.
TO (dIKKT WII.SOV
MIIAV'AUKEr;. WIS., .I.inuar\ ?.
President Wilson, on his arrival In Mil
waukee to-morrow, will he greeted by
the presidential salute of twenty-one
guns by a battery of the Wisconsin
National Ciuard.
ZEPPELIN PASSES
OVER PARIS; TAKES
TOLL OF 24 LIVES
Raid Lasts Minute and a
Half, Dozen Bombs
Being Dropped.
DENSE FOG GREAT HELP
TO GERMAN AIR VISITOR
About Thirty of Aeroplanes
Guarding City Go Up After
Invading Craft.
PAPKKS DKMANI) HKT.\ LIATIOX
Warnings fJivcn Again !>ast Night,
Attack lielng Momentarily
Kvpcrtcd.
Another Raid on Paris
| Sjirolnl t'nble to Tlnn'i-IJKpatt'h.l
I'AltlS. ,1 miliary :t?.?Following
the Zeppelin rulil on I'nrls liimt
nlirlit. In wlilt li (wpnty-thrre per
noux were killed Iit lionilis dropped
on the city, (icminn llleri made an
other nttnek on the capital thin
evening.
About ?i do/.en bombs have been
dropped.
Itepnrlx of the extent of the dnni
iiKe of the second raid hnve not yet
been recched.
i
j PAKIS, January "0.?A Zenpelin
i dirigible passed swiftly over a sec
tion of Paris last night, dropping about
a dozen bombs, which killed twenty
four persons and injured twenty-seven.
Warnings were given again to-niirlit
shortly hefore 10 o'clock, and a second
air attack was momentarily expected
by the residents of the darkened city.
The raid last night lasted about one
minute and a half, while in the llrst
j visit of Zeppelins to Paris, on March
21. 15?15, four of these a'reraft were
over or in the neighborhood of the
capital for nearly two hours. They
came at that time under entirely dif
ferent atmospheric conditions, being
plainly visible In a clear sky. 1-ast
night iho fog seriously interfered with
the work of the Paris aerial guard.
The fact that only on? German ma
chine appeared leads to the belief that
j the Zeppelin was making a reoonnoiter
' ing trip, and the supposition is that the
j Germans have mi view a similar opera
' Hon on a larger scale. t
Warnings of the presence of a Zep
j poiiti were hurriedly given and the
j lights of Paris were dimmed. At the
hour of the raid the theaters ami cafes
were open, and households had hardlv
yet retired. Almost immediately all
tlio aeroplanes guarding Paris were
made ready, and about thirty of them
! took to the air. One of these machines
' tired twenty-live shots from a quick
J tlrer at the invading craft, which, pur
j sued by several of the little machines,
sped at top speed westward. Apparent
ly the bombs carried by the Zeppelin
J were let loose indiscriminately and
j without thought of where they should
i sti ike.
si-\ itciii.it. u rs i si:i.i>s
IX DENSK KtXi ritKV \ IU.VC
One of the pursuing aviators said
that the searchlights were useless in
the fog, he himself being hardly able
to see more than twenty-four feet
above with the aid of his light.
The Paris newspapers demand that
measures of retaliation be taken imme
diately.
Thirty French aeroplanes searched
the remote air regions above Paris
last night for the Zeppelin raider, of
whoso appearance warning had been
given. By the time it had reached
the edge of one of tit" old quarters of
| the city, several of the airmen were
able to make out its pale yellow shape,
! 14.000 feet, rtom the earth. Frightened,
'doubtless, by the numerous war planes
rising toward it. the Zeppelin wheeled
j and drove at full speed northward,
dropping in its trail Into the darkness
a cargo of about three oivl one-half
tons of bombs Then, continuing its
flight at a great altitude, the airship
i vanished.
iwkisians vuh uakm;i)
OF It A I DI-".It'S A I'I'lt OA(.'II
Parisians had boon warned, half an
j hour before b\ tire engines rushing
| through the streets trumpeting the call
j known as "st imi to arms" of the pres
, euro of the raider. The electric street
I lights v ent out and policemen c.iu
j tioned careless householders t?? close
i their shutters and darken their win
dows immediately, it was still early
! in the night, close to I" o'clo-'k. and
| many persons were in the streets, tho
; cafes were open anil (lie moving-picture
i theaters anil playhctises were still ???>
| tertaining their spectators and audi
| en cos.
| Then in all parts of the city could bo
heard the u hir of numerous aeroplane
I propellers, while every where people
went upon the balconies to watch for
, Zeppelins
j Few Parisians appeared to believe
j the raiders were 1 ik?-1>? to come, as they
'had been turned back many times | if
!\iouslv. Rut suddenly, in one of the
| northeastern parts of Paris, there >\'as
; a great fla-e in the sky as the Z.%p
j peliu dropped an tll'iininate ko that it
| might be seen h\ those ir, tlf airship
| whether they were over the city. A
bomb let! to the street, crushing into
the subway ami tearing a hole fifteen
feet in diameter, but injuring no one.'
Ouiokly a series of other detonations
oeurred, Bounding dully throughout tlt?i
city.
j<;itIC\T MIS* 11,1.: FA 1,1.S
(iv isoi.\rKi> urn si:
j One of the missiles fell on r,n Isolated
house occupied l?y a single family. The
building was bisected, one end helng
dumped, and its occupants hurled far
out into an open lot and killed. Tho
