FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
Mil
VOL. 1I.-NO. 11 J) .
PHILADELPHIA, MOXDAY, .TAXUARV HI, l!lb
t'onitioiiTt 1010, at tne Publiu l.r.van CoMrA.ii.
PUIOJS OjNUS OBNT
&3v 2&rp. ;JR
I
Ki
ft
it
a.
NATION SHOULD MAKE OWN
WAR SUPPLIES, SAYS WILSON
IN KAP AT FOES OF DEFENSE
.Denies the Munition
Makers Are Backing
Campaign for Pre
paredness i
i
"Anything Government Does Is j
Going to Make Money for
Somebody," He Tells Throng 1
at Racine, Wis.
"There Arc Adequate Means of De
fending Ourselves, and W.c Will
Use These ThiiiRs," President As
serts Speaks in Milwaukee This
Afternoon j
--
AHDAitn prinsi hunts spccial
TRAIN. ItAt'INE. WK. .Inn. .11. Hap
ping lit Ihnse wlm :1 f charging Unit the
demand for preparedness Iiiih sprung frmii
those "Interested In supplying the ilm
eminent with instiiimonts of wiir." Piosl-
itent Wll-ton. In mi address define several i
thnu'.and persons hem today. nilorntril
Govcnunont innuii picture nf nil niiniltlmis. I
"I, for mv pint," ho sulci, "iinvo nil !
along advocated nmt always iih.ill advo
cate that the Government, so fur as pos
sible, ni.itiiirnotuie tiuvo things (war sup
plies) for itself. In order Unit :it nnv rati'
it mtiv control the pi lees lit whlih these '
aitlclcs will ho sold to tho Government. '
It la not noccssaiy for us to protect oui- i
selves against thorn1 who would make
monei out of the necessities nf the tin .
tlon. Theio me iidoniiato iirmiih of do
fending oui Helves, anil we will use these,
means
do not m: misled.
"Hut," he added, 'I ilo not hollovo the
Impulse for picpniodness comes from
theso soutees.
"There ate come things being mid that
I hope you will not hcllevo." the Presi
dent continued. "It Is bolug said anions
other things that this agitation for na
tional defense comes ehlelly fioni thn.'e
who are Intoiestcd In .suppbing the Giiv
ernnient with the munitions nf war mid
from those who nre suppl.wtig the hnltlo
shlps with their aimamont.
"Gentlemen:, do not allow ) ourselves In
he misled h statements of this snit.
Anything that the Government does Is
poin to make innnc" for somelmd),, hut
the Impulse for the thing does nol Tonic
from those iiuniters
The Impulse comes from men disinter
ested, men who know the actu.il clrcum
Btances of the country and who Know
these things nre Immediately ticocssuiy."
4
''
There Arc Adequate Means
of Defense;' Sans Wilson
"I for my part, have nil alone
advocated and always shall advo
cate, that the Government, so far
as possible, manufacture these
thinp-s (war supplies) for itself,
in order that at any rate it may
control the prices at which these
articles will be sold to tho Gov
eminent. "It is not necessary for us to
protect ourselves against those
who would make money out of tho
necessities of the nation.
"There are adequate means of
defending ourselves and we will
use these means.
"It is being said that the agita
tion for national defense comes
chiefly from those who are inter
ested in supplying the Government
with the munitions of war.
"Anything that the Government
does is going to make monev for
somebody, hut the impulse for the
thing does not jomc from those
quarters."
SHIFT IN OUPONT
BRITISH BALTIC BLOCKADE
"BLUFF' SAYS CHIEF OF
KAISER'S ADMIRALTY STAFF
Calls "Effective" Barrier "Impossible" Policy
Only Menaces Neutral Commerce Plans
Unaffected Declares von Holtzendorff
Hy CARL W. ACKERMAN
I nmnlnlil, I9lii, flir Vnllrd rrrn.
All effective 1ilfii'l.ntln ill ilffiii.ti.t. la lm..i.fl(l,lH i.i.i
of the German Admiralty Starr, declared today In an exclusive
LitBMnd, ho paid, could under mi circumstances Mop com
hetween Sweden and
FRENCH CHECK
GERMAN DRIVE
IN THE ARTOIS
- -
Counter-Attacks Made and
Fresh Assaults Repulsed
at Hill un
... . .. - .-... -.v
hi.iujun. .inn.
Admiral von Holtzendorff,
.USM0 BMtioi GAINS HELD, SAYS BERLIN
, k,. 'Sjl&JuJi.
.-- -1
&'
REPLIES TO SUIT
&.
&S.
. ' 111
&W'J
HEADED l-'Hi: MILWAUKEE. ,
'Rulinlng'lO minutes late. Pie!,ldent Wll
sup left IfneliHi at 11:11 and headed for
Jlll'vnuki'c, whi'ie. this afternoon, ho In
expert ed to nrilio one nf the impoi taut
addiessiw of the pii'imiediiCHS tour.
All nlonc he was aecord."il ii Kreat lo
ceptlon At each point whom a mop was
made he wiii fori oil to wait s-'veial min
utes hcfiirc lie could lieulii to tpe.ll;. Thou
sands of ihlldien were In the DininKs lh.it
Rreeted him At one time when he had to
pause to ipuel these the President mild.
MUlllUK
"I iiw-d to he ii M-hooImaster. hut I
can't Kiep tin si1 .wiiuieMeis ijulet I iip
IMieiilh lmv lost tho art. or peihnps
their olies .ne hcliiB Minecxeil nut of
them In the pi until e of the ciowd."
Mis Wdion iiImi wns accuiileil a tre
mendous ii'ceplloii. At each slop she up
TPcnieil mi the platlirm.
u iiisox m: ns i'bu u.AiiKFNij
IX HIS FIOilT FOK DKPHXSK
"I'm NoU on a Holiday Krrniitl," Ho
Sayt. at Waukegan, III.
W'.M'KUtl N, I'l.. .1:1.1. ni - Piesldent
YVIIkuii lunri" pin ilr.u speoili Ii inn a train
lij udvoeiitinm pi ei,i i idnoss here today
to eei.il hmidied ineu and women. Ho
spoke fio.u liie icir end ot his own inr,
the last on the train.
Most oi V.iuke(;au was ul the station
when the Pni.ldeni's special an lied en
millo to Milwaukee. It was n ioiisIiik i- ;
ceptlou with ."o mui Ii chceiln that the
President mulil not ho heard for sevctal ,
minutes.
"I uin not on u holiday errand," tio j
President said from tiro platform. "I liiivo i
felt It shsolutcly necessary to tell my
friends itie need of national defense. I i
will bu forward on my errand with more
encouragement ns u icsult nf your ro
ception." Tho crowd surccd up close despite tho
efforts of tho Secret Service men to keep
them at a distance. Tho President smiled
nn acknowledgment to tho ihecrliiK
throiiK He launched at onto lulir his plea
Lcntiiuril on PuBe Two, Ciililinii One
WEATHER
THfe
Securities Co. Formed ,
to Keep Intact T. Cole-
man du Pont Holdings
HYPOTHECATIONS DENIED ,
Answer Shows Vast Dividends
Declared by Defendants j
in Powder Case i
I
Itin istnft ''miiiii,ffriil I
WII.AIINCTON. D.d. Jan. :i 1 Tho j
, Hist detailed infni matioii as to tho or-
canizatlon mid actllties of the du Pont
Se.-urltles romp.ni). piincipal ilcfuucluiit
In the du Pont milt, hecnnio nvalhililo low
duy'teilTT'-tho Illlntri of answers to the in-T
lenoi-nliirlCH of I'hlllp I, du Pont, pliicid
in the hands of the I'nlted States District
Comt on January II. Much of tho Indlvl.
dual defendants in the riilt (lied a separ
ate reply.
The documents show Hint the du Pont
Si'iurltlos Company was conceived hy '
Pleno S. du Pont, homo I", du Pont,.
Uiniinnt du Ponl. John J. llnskoli, It. It. ,
AlnrRiin Cm pouter and A. l-'ellx du Punt '
It Is as'ierted that these men, iiriniishr-;
lo purchase all of the du Pont Powder
Company slncU owned hy T. c. du Ponl, i
foimeil the secuiltlos cnmp.iuy, with a.
enpltnl stock of $7,."UO,tKV), and icsolil the
stoik iiKiulied hy them to that corpoi.i
tion. f
Tile hlnek thili transfened was HWH I
slimes oi common and ll,,r0D slimes nf
preferred stock In Hi,' II. I. du I mil do ,
.Vemoiirii Pmvilei Coiupiiuy, purchased at ,
J.'m and & a share respectively from T. j
Colemiiii du Pont. ,
In addliinn lo this stock, L'S, 1 7." shales of
du Pont common stock, privately owned,
was tiiinul over to tho securities com
pany. PIKIHti: 111' PUNT'S IIOUMNOS.
The answer i! Plorio S. du Pont shows
his intoiest in the hoeiiiitlcs company
thus aiqiiircd was L1U-.J slimes uf the
oapital stock of the lu Pom Securities
t'limp.iii) and that ihis cost (toKcthor
wltli Kfio shares later transfened to other
panics), his Inteiests ill stock purchased
from T. Coleman du Pont and in iiilill"'
tlon theieto H,IN shines of powder com
pany stock and Ills personal Kuaianteo
to Hie extent of $l,Ji,0M) of tho Js',5in,iro
loan elfccted ill New York to llo.it the
vent ui e.
In all, 11,7"') slimes of du Pout Seciu'l-
I ties Comp.in) ynxbck woro "transferred,"
i ncvoiilliiK t V10 answer of Pleno S
du Pont. He inserts this stock was Issued
I In trust for II. !'. Iliown. II. S. Haskell,
j William Coyne, K. I!. Talliu.ui, XV. CJ.
! Itiunsa), J. P. laffey. lreiiue I :, du I'ont,
! l.ammot du Pont, It. R. Morsuii Cm pouter
, and John J. Itaskoh "upon condition that
these gentlemen should i emiiiu in the
I employ nf tho 1. "f. du Pont do Nemours
i Powder Comp.in) for at least one year
and tli.it the stock should not be sold
or hpolhecated within thieo years."
VON UOLTZKNnORl'T
Hcad of (ierman Naval Staff,
ITenmnrk nud Oer-
niniiv. I'or weeks, he pointed out, no llrltlsh
suhmarliirs have had mi) success In tho
Hnltlc Tho Itusslnn licet In frozen In
Husslnn harhors
Tho onlv orfect of a declaration nf hloclt
ade hy the Allies, tho Admltal stated, would
he upon ttoiitniK and upon tho women nnd
children of (lerinaiiy. lie hinted Mronfily
that Oermanv Is ptcpnicd for any action
hy (treat Britain.
uhen I say a new hloekndo of Hermany
would ho a hluff, don't mlsiindoi stand me,"
said Admiral von lloltenilorff. "Crerm.iny
looks earnestly, hut fearlessly, upon nny
enomv plans to cause her women and chil
ilron to suffer. Hut liecativo such a hlockade
Is Imposslhle. I wiv it it a hluff
"Ak nny Kvcillli merchant, ask Swedes
In llerlln, ask any one IciiowIiir I lie llaltlc
situation. Tliev will nil tell .inn that com
ineieo hetween Hip two lountrles is abso
lutely nornial. I'or four weeks no HiirIIsIi
siihmarlno has had any success in tho Ital
tic. Wo Intend to make It more ImposMllilo.
Hecaiise an IhiRllsh hloi knd or our Mattlc
ports is nut of iitii'Stlon. a:i .ilt-mpt at an
clTeotlvolilnckado would lie a lilulT. IhiR
l.ind already hnnpeiH (ieiiimn nude If a
liioekado should ho declared now It would
lie initial v to Intel-national law. It would
not only ho a hlockade of licrmau.v, hut of
neiili.il cnnntiles iilioul her.
"Ihmtaud's purpose Is to make ilitlli'til
tles for our families, Ihliikiui; this will
.iIT.mI the men in the tienches- mil It will,
foi when I lie men Inn n that their families
are heliiK made to suffer hy tlm enemy
opposite ihein. they will he the mom deter
mined to liKht the hauler.
"Incliinil's iiiupiKi1 In tills war, as her
olllclals have lipcatedly stated, is to cripple
lieiinaiiy anil ilestloy her enmmerco. After
not been Miciessful. Iler 'effei live' blockade will have
military determination. We Ioiib ago prtp.ired for any
Is mouths of war she has
nlixolutely no elfect upon nu
enieiKency.
A MAN til' DBHPS
The Admiral Is a -mimII. plump, eiiorRetlc man with thick white wlilskois nnd a
In at t handshake. He grei ts you smilini;, with u inilltaiy how, a Mini grip and a
wonl ot gicellng which conies so nulilr ul Hint .win forget .win aio In the presence
of one of the KnlM-r's limit trusted nlll i.i's I'oi f iii'iiiIIik he has hihl tin- liiipoitaul
poM as chief of the Admlrnlt.v Mtiifi". He ha-i w itolml the olllcinl icl.itions h'twien
tho L'nllid States nud Heiiuau:. i.rv.- Iilcudllei. Iiii.iug 111: d notion ol Hit' Admiral!)
Staff suliiuitiiuu iiLtivitlis haw icntred with griat i'in,ti: in iho .MLillterianeaii, the
.MARTIN OUT I'OR G0YKUX0K
('nntittiiril tm Tiler I'nur ('(iliimii I'ltr
SUBMARINE K-5
Candidate for Democratic Nomination
in Now Jersey
TIII3NTHN. N. J.. Jan :!!. Secretar)
of State Thomas I'. Mai tin today an
nounced his candidacy for the Hemoornlio
Hiihel uatorliil nomination.
Surprise Attacks by French
Fail to Regain Trenches,
Foes Report
PAItlP. Jan. 31.
The new Ocrman offensive has been
checked by vlgoious l'leneh counter-attacks,
the War Ollice Indicated this after
noon in a statement toportlng Toulon
onslaught diminishing In violence.
Having occupied home l-'rene'.i trenches
wrecked hy their hoavv nitlllcry. the Her
mans have been tumble to make fill t lie r
pi ogress and have been dilven o'lt nf
some of the completed gtound b) hot tiro
from the I'rench positions.
"North of Arras. In the region south
west of Hill 110. two il'-rinan hand
grenade nttneks weie repulsed." sab' this
afternoon's nlllclal statement.
"In th'1 Chump. igno region, north of
I'resnes, our nrtlller) mused oploslons
at four points In the ijerinan trenches.
In mine lighting in the Argouno we '
destroyed an enemy gallery near Haute I
tievauchee.
' milll.lN. Jan. ::i.
fiesplto repeated T'loiieh attacks the '
(lornians have suoceeded In letaluing the i
ground captured by them last week to ,
the north and south of the Solium1 river, j
The Oernian Win (Ullce atmounced in '
an nlllclal report toda) that the Allies' at-
tacks weie beaten otf am! also enumetated
newly raptured positions. 1
The tel of the nlllclal irport follows:
"Dur new treiiehes in the legion of Neil
villi1 St Vaast were held by us despite ie
peated attempts by the l-'ieiich to retake.
them. ,
"The number of pilsouers taken not Hi- '
west of the I. a I'ollo has been increased !
hy nin and our boot) has been Incieasod
to II machine guns. I
"Tlio I-'ioiu h made seveial surprise nt
tai ks against the pi..-itlous capttieil by
tlie Slle.-lan troopi. of the Sonimc Hlvcr I
QUICK NEWS
DUSSELDORP WOMEN 'iN ANTI-WAR DEMONSTRATION
ASISTEKDAM, Jnn 31. Several nutl-vnr tletuonstratioiiB by
wmiipn hnve orcuvretl in Dussc.dorf mill other dennau citieL, neces
sitatlne police Jnterfpiencn, the Telcgranf rciioited today.
450.000 CUHIC FEET OF EARTH BLOCK CANAL
NEW YORK. Jan. Sl.-Gcueinl George W. Gontlinls, Governor
of the rrmanin Cnnnl Zone, who nrrlved Here today on his, ny to
Waslitngton. dclni'Pt1 that JCO.OOO cuhte feel or enith will have to
be removed before the conal ettn bo leopeued.
JO.OOO MONGOLIAN REBELS MARCHING UPON PEKIN
LONDON, Jan. 31 A Renter's dispatch from Mukden, Man
ehtuin, states that 80,000 Mongolian rebels are marching upon
l'ekla.
TROOPS KILL BERLIN FOOD RIOTERS
LONDON, Jan. 31. A Central News dispatch from Amsterdam says that
food riots Iinvo been resumed In Uerlln, and that In the latest clash troops
called out to disperse, the riot era opened lire, kllliiiK six persons and woundlnB
several others.
f
MINERS REFUSE TO EXCLUDE MILITIAMEN
INDIANAPOLIS, Intl., Jan. ni. Efforts to amend tin1 constitution of the
fnlted Mine Woikois of America to exclude members of tho Stato militia and
State constabulary failed today. The delegates adopted the report against the
proposed mensuie.
DUTCH LINER VICTIM OF MINE
LONDON. Jan. III. The Dutch liner .Mausdyjk has been badly damaged
nnd benched. It was. niinnunccil today. Two membera or the crew were killed.
It Is liolloved thai the liner hit n mini1. The Maastlyjk has been engaged In
uniiic iioivveoii iiolliiiid nnd South America.
I'nttcidnni, Its honii- poll, on December SI.
It sailed from Montevideo for
PR0RE OF NEW YORK DISTRICT ATTORNEY ORDERED
WASHINGTON, Jan. 31. -Tho House Judiciary Committee today authorized
tlio appointment nf a sub-committee to probe Impeachment charges against H.
Snow-don .Marshall, district attorney of Now York, made by Representative
Htichanati, of Illinois. The subcommittee to be appointed later by Chairman.
Webb will bo authorized to conduct lis investigation In Washington or to visit
Now York In Its discretion.
on 1'ild.i).
"Tho activity of opciallons has do
eieased at some points as a icsult ol
misty weather."
Wants lo I'rolie Gasoline Price
WASHINGTON, Jnu. 31. A committee
of nine niembcis of tho House, to Investi
gate tlio icasons for the rlso In the prleu
of gasoline, in piovlded for In a csolutlou
Ititioduced today hy Hop.-esontiitlvc Dow
ell, of I own. Speaker Chi: . is to select
tlio committer'.
.JAPAN DENIES SIGNING PACT WITH GERMANY .
TOKIO. Jan. 31. -Tho foreign Offlco issued a statement today denying
the report from llerlln that Japan and Germany have signed a treaty recog
nising; Japan's aupetior rights in the Far Kast.
j '"&!" - 't&'
"JrtvnrXimii..
&MJ2SlKr
iiWv0iKai3rai? a'"1 , Jlfa.
"??
'"ttt.
rw-,WpMw?ii
v""f i gate tlio icasons for the rise In the prlcu
i '"of gasnllno, in piovlded for In a csolutlou
1 Ititioduced today hy Hop.-esontiitlvc Dow-
f . 1 ell. of I own. Speaker Chi: . is to select
! -v.. ' S ; .- 'f l' -1110 1011111111100.
Jilllllllfi ' ' '-- i
KWPVfWiSOfZftllSiAJy vf
viww uiirisj. , ' i
Bffcvrr-- 2,'ftswBK .
2 .?Sff Sflte&vM3lfelwll2tir wk A- ' . ,-?rvr ''".' '
HiriiK r-JK tt-tti- iianr-r-Ti.i , n ,i ,n ,ijrr ....T .. -.- ' . " r ..
PSStaKzs--aB-&-r-T' - '-'rm
"- "-sra r JZ "- Z-ir
YOUNG TURKS ftlENACE LIFE OF VALI OF SMYRNA
LONDON. Jan. 31.-Threatened with death hy the Young Turks who
accused him of favoring iho Allies. Kuliml Hey. Vail (governor) ot Smyrna,
has fled from that city, and taken teftige on a British warship, according to a
dispatch from Salonlcn.
RUSSIA SCORNS GERMAN PEACE ".FEELERS!'.
LONDON. Jan. 31. -a Potrograd dispatch to Keulcr's sajs: "St. Sazonoff,
Russian foreign .Minister, nnnuunced to a delegation or Journalists that dor
Mian attempts to secure a separiilo peace with Russia hail recently been renewed,
"Wo left them all unanswered and look no police of them," be bald.
aMr-tff?srj -5v - , - - i j
3m
FIVE SHIPS FROM U. S. SEIZED BY BRITISH
LONDON, Jan. 31. The Norwegian steamships Tuiiufjoril, from Now York
for Hcrgen, with n general cargo; Vlnistra. from New Orleans and Newport News
for Cliristittnla, with u geneial cargo; Olaf Kyrre, from H.iltimore for Vaksdal,
with a cargo of wheat and rye, and Hlltru. from Baltimore for Aarhuus, with
maize, and tho Danish steamship Alexandre, from New York 'for Copenhagen,
with a general cargo, have all been taken Into Kirkwall.
.'""
'"flWSdlW1'.
PREPARE JOINT REPLY ON ARMING MERCHANTMEN
LONDON, Jan. 31. An nlllclal announcement last night &avs: "The Allies
arc replying jointly to the proposal of tho fnlted Sjntes Inviting merchantmen to
carrying guns."
discontinue
IMiiilo lo i; Mnlkl. Ii
Missing- since early yesterday morning;, when 3hc became lost off the South Carolina coast on her way to
the Florida drill grounds. Rut later reported off Charleston Harbor.
GIRL LEAPS TO DEATH
FROM DECK OF BOAT
Man Who Accompanied Her
From Baltimore Is Under
Arrest at Salisbury
MISSING SUBMARINE UN'ALTRA DIVISIONE
SAFE AT CHARLESTON I SBARCATA A VALONA
Steamship Mohakw Reports Nuove Truppe e Batterie Pesan-
SECl'IUTIUS STOCK SOLD.
SAMSHl'llY. Mil.. Jan. 31 -The hod)
of protty Miss Maiy Spide, of Poeomoke
City; Mil, wlm leaped fiom the upper
deck of the steamboat .liginla whllo on
her way from Ilaltimoie to thlB clt) yes
tenlay, has not heui found The water
In tlio vicinity of Hooper stralU. where
the young woman Jumped, was dragged
dining tho day and night hy oystermen
William Iliewlnglon, who is In jail in
this city, icfuteil to diseuxs tho mntter,
anil evaded all nuestious tiiat tend to an
answer of his alleged relallouahip to the
girl.
Cjtit.iln Kdwaid Johnson, nf the Ylr.
In addition to tho tiansferied stock, the I K, snld that Ilrowington nnd Miss I
There are weather experts and weather
experts. Some modestly confine them.
Hives to local conditions. Olhcis think In
terma of the effects of hcavenl) bodies,
like the War star, upon human destinies.
Madame de Thebes, for instance, does not
viorry about nn thing like dtizzlos and
fogs, as we do: her tlmo Is tuken up by
what the late Mr. James called the "cos
mic weather." She sees storms in the
heavens on sunny days and predicts five
more years of war, while we are tiylng to
cheer up humanity to pick up heart to
enjoy tine weather while it la here. Our
optimism goes so far na to call this a
sunny day, uven when It Isn't. Yet that
U not as big a tlu as Madame commits
very time she prophesies, l-or even nnen
ahp la right In her guestes she is wtong
document shows that 5W shares of the
du Pont Secuiities Company stock weie
wild to each of the following: Charles
Copelun, W. XV. Laird, II. Itodney Sharp,
Kusene K. du Pont and II. !'. du Pont,
and that In return for each of thoso blocks
of 5tl hajos the du Pont Securities Com
pjiD received f,?73 slimes of stock In
tho powder company.
Tho du Pont Securities Company paid
astonishing dividends, according to the
answers Died by the defendant directors
of the powder company.
In the reply of Pleno S. du Pont, pres
ident of K. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.
and principal Individual defendant. It Is
usserted that on November 1!. 1915, he
lecelved us a dividend fiom Iho securities
compan) .u,l snaies or common siock
ie m wiuitK t . ..- .; i,. ..,,..... n.i ,i.n. .. r,
In spirit, because she avva)s discourages ,'''' 17 1315i nc ,Ccelved another dlvl
nununlty and makes such little things as j dtnJ Jr0n the becurii(,a company of IIJI
stars teem grouter than men
We prefer to prattle of sunny days.
FORECAST
'For Philadelphia and vicinity (
settled tonight, with probably rain;
Tufuday fair and somewhat colder;
fresh westerly winds.
For details see page i5.
huies of the powder company stock
Pierre S. du Pout also ndmiu he guvo
tho president of the Hankers' Trust Com
pany of New York an oral statement of
hU llnancial condition, but that no state
ment as to the financial status o( the
powder company was furnUhed thono who
lloated the loan, but It I uUo suid n the
answer: 'The parties mentioned un
doubtedly had the financial statement of
the powder company, which had btteu
iiublinheil for the Information of every
one Intetested in that company."
HYI'UTHECATUD STOCK.
Alt of the defendant directors of the
uuvuler counwny meuy umi me uu i'ont
TV iat . s-,i,,ii,tiv lidii ffirma.l Inr ,.
Spide hoarded his steamboat at Haiti
more. He did not take any notice of tho
couple until yesterday moining about 6
o'clock, when he heard an argument on
the lower deck, and heaid Ilrewington
say he was going to abandon Miss Spide
upon his arrival at Sallsbur). and after
expressions weie exchanged between the
two Miss Splde said that "she intended
to commit suicide and take her tioubles
ovei board In the ba."
A few minutes later Miss Spido en mo
from her room, dressed tn her traveling
suit and furs, nnd before the stewardess
ubuld cntlji .her she stepped upon one of
the rail Bfaj$ and leaped overboard, head
tlrst. v", ',('
The stvaa.niDo'at' was stopped and boats
lowered, hut the y$ung woman never ap
peared on the ebrface. nrewlngton about
that time came running up on deck and
wanted to duplicate the oung woman's
act. Tho captain, knowing that Brewing
ton hud u wife and live children in thU
clt). Immediately arrested him, and, upon
arrival here later in the day, turned him
over to the authorities.
" LOST AND 170UNP
JJhok u.t Kruuli book, a mUU.t wtlte.
UU i H, .-, a U -eiunw.1 to lr. J -Ctitn i tStcurltle Compatiy wus formed for the
-i. ( 111 OM VS
TS.i"t:..'r.wr '""""" "" - - ;;,;,-, njhecatmg sue n stock mdiwa-
mt .'.jac-t lhal l Ik aition in no way
tomenuMl 1Kb touhliag louipany now de
fendant In the litigation.
' uurpoi o b)PhetlnB their stock In
duiooou ? powae? lomjiany Severil of them
..i.nit i.ithecatlug such slock Individ-
H'llillVIH 1'I.S l-ul nUU now fraler
'ii i In ,. uUu 1 uluiiiuuOa. ic-auw
M Ub, LtJte: (utll
fltktt fMt ad louujl Ada en Vast 16
CHIEF INSPECTOR OF METERS
QUITS POST' ON REQUEST
Judson C. Dicke'rman Hands in Resig
nation to Director Datesman
Judson C. DIckerman, chief inspector
of meters of the Bureau of Has, today
handed hU leslgnatlon to Director Date
man. of the Department of Public Works,
by tequest
It is generally believed that Dr N
W)l Thomas, who was removed from
the poau on ul vhief of the bureau, whuti
paid it sali of IsfiOO, early In the Hlank
enburg adouetstratlon. will be reinstated.
Seoino; K-5 Goinp; Into
Southern Harbor
JiUUNSWICIC, Ga., Jan. .'it The
tup W. B. Kecne'has just received a
wireless that the Cljde .ship .Mohawk
siRhti'rl the missinK submarine K-5 fin
ing; into Charleston.
WASH1NUTON. Jan. 31 Six vessels of
the coaht guaid and naval service today
are combing tho waters of the Atlantic
from tho Virginia Capes south to a point
beyond Charleston, S. C, for tho subma
rine K-5. missing more than :'l hours.
Ordinarily the K-5 carries six odlcers
and a crew of 20, but, accoidlng to the
Navy Department, only Lieutenants
Hrady and Krtuier and IS men now are
on hoard.
MHMIIKRS CW TJIK CJlrJw.
Tho enlisted men asslgped to the K-5 are
as follows, hut the department was with
out Information today as to the personnel
of the eight not on board r
ilKOIllll-: l1. AI1UBV. uhlo's 'Onk.
HAIIftV I.. AMUR iiuiiner'ii male.
MJI1KW IIOl'RNr Kiiniwr'a mate.
V'.1, Wi'i M'-n A'nf .'iA"1'1"'. . Kunncrs mate.
MlVIII It llltoiv.v unier'i, male.
'.ITiv, , A'Mi -'Axi vv- unnr mate.
I'Al I. OAVIUkON V'Ullnn m iiiatu
HAlll.ANI) Dltoat'K. electrl.-iali
JOHN M i:.u:ilV imuhlnut's mate
WILLIAM POJ't'l-Kll). cledrlilan
KIIAKK J.vi'Ki-ON machloUt's mate.
JOHN VV. KAT1IKK. iiiaahlnint'a male.
JOSttlHl SI.MtSW. KiinnrVB male
l.KVVIS K MlrtDUI-l'KI.'iThllllit's nalo
lll('HAt:i. P. N'.U'ZIKKI. ciiiuir' nutc
WILLIAM J. OllItlES. tuthliiUis's mite.
Flt.OiK W IMMI. mJffilnl.1'. nTale.
THCis. i Itll' MAHUri. Jl,, Kunncr'ii mate.
JOIIS V SCHILMXa. 5ctrKUll.
WILLIAM P. S1IAVK. OilS-:
lliJiU H. sill ry. iiuauffB nut.
..i iiiniv . itr,ji'A
ti per la Difesa della Base
Navale Albanese
Notlzio siunto da Vienna e Heillno ill
cono die gl Itallani hanno sh.ircato
uu'iiltr.i dtvlsiono di tiuppe e paiecchle
batterie clt attiglierla pesante a Vnlona.
, Clo' Indlea dice II dispacclo da Berllno,
die I'ltalia non pensa affnto ud abban-
ilomiro quell'lmportante base navale nel
('Albania, dovo aveva gla' una foitlsslma
giiainlglone, o che invece fnrn' di tutto
per teiierl.i oontro gil attnechi dcgll nus-
I triad o del bulguii, iltenendo che II pos-
I sesso di Vulona e' una necesslta' mllitare
' die ilsuaida la sltuaiione In genernle.
Ncssuna nntizla si hu oggl da Homa
tlrea 1'Albaiila. leri pero' si dlcevn die
1 Kssad pasciti' aveva operato con le sue
truppe uu collegameiito con le forze Hall
one c die si dlsponeva a dlfeudeie I plu'
, linportanti nppioccl di Vnlona.
j II genernle Cadorna comunlca che nella
glornata ill glovedl' 1'artigllerla itallana
bombaido' e dlspeise una colonna dl
tiuppe austrlache che dlsceudeva verso II
forte di Por, 1'opera plu' meridlon.ile del
I gruppo ill l.ardaro. nella Val Giudlcarla.
.ieue giornuta ill venerar e dl glovedl' vl
e' stata graudo attlvHu' dl artlsllerla su
tutta la frouto Itallana.
((,eggere in la pagina Ie ultimo e plu'
dettagllate notUle siilla guerra, in Ital-lano.i
SEIZURE OF GREEK PORT FOLLOWED U-BOAT ATTACK
LONDON, Jan. 31. A dispatch from Salonlca sas: "An uuthorltatlvo state
ment, Issued in explanation of the occupation of tho Greek fort on the Karaburun
Peninsula, says It was dim to the fact that u few days ago a German submarine
approached to within a few miles of tlio entrance to tho channel leading to th
port or Salonlca and torpedoed a transport conveying a large number of mules.
The transport was beached and a majority of the mules were saved. This
attack in Greek territorial waters demonstrated to tho Entente naval authorities
tho necessity of tin energetic policing of the roast."
BATTLE-SCARRED GOEBEN STILL FIGHTING FOR TURKS
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 31 Tho Turkish battle cruiser Sultan Splm.
formerly the German cruiser Goebeu, despite seven serious actions aud severa(
minor engagements, 4s still a lighting unit, apparently as efficient and powerful
as at the outbreak of the war. She shows the marks of numerous Injuries
received In her various encounters, notably three inflicted by Russian U'-lnch
shells, but only the scars remain.
nul,.
-"T-.. . ... . .
JIIMKI'll I1 ItA!..
H.
Pl.ltlHVllK IV1I.SAV
JIAPUY U. W'OOmVAIt
AY. machlnuit's
trk-lin
er cieiiricun.
SHIP HAS PKPPKCT HKCOim
According lo Navy Department olllci.il.
she is one or Hie best submarines in the
service and has a perfeot record.
The K-5 lieoame detached from the pa
rent ship Tallahassee while proceeding,
south fiom the Uiookljn fjavy Yuid to
the Florida drill giounds some time after
j o'ciock &unuay morning Since that
time no word of Iri wherrabouts has
AUECES FOHfiKRV IN WILL
Recorder Sheehan Probes Document
Involving 8000 Estate
Evidence In support of a forgery charge
in connection with the will of Charles If.
Richardson. Broad and Columbia avenue,
was heard today by lleglster of Wills
Sheehan.
The paper purporting to be a will was
found two years after Itlcliardson's death,
which occurred April IS. 1911. It was
brief and left the estate valued at J8.0O0
to Hlizabeth R. Richardson, a cousin of
the diKeased Exception to the will was
taken by Zaihary T. Richardson and upon
his petition the recorder stalled an in
vestigation which was not completed to
da). Wilson to Urge Tariff Hoard
WASHINGTON, Jan. Jl.-Prealdent Wil
son Is expected to deliver, la person, a
special message to Congiess asking for
legislation 11 eating a tariff ommlsslon.
U. S. AMBASSADOR'S DISPATCHES HELD UP
ATHENS, Jan.. 31. Official diplomatic messages filed at the telegraph oITlca
In Constantinople by the Vnited States Ambassador, and addressed to the Amer
ican Legation heto for relay to Washington, nro being held up somewhere.
"Confirmation" copies of diplomatic messages two weeks old have been received,
and It was disclosed that n largo number of Important dispatches sent by wire
bad failed to reach the Amciican Minister at Athens.
GERMAN HOSPITAL TRAIN IN SMASH
TIEIIMN, Jan. 3L A collision between a fast train and u hospital train at
Calcum, Prussia, in which 1 persons on the hospital train were badly Injured
and six persons on Hie fijst train Injured nnd one killed, Is reported In dispatches
from Cologne.
been received, and onieials, while insist- I toon aftei he leturni from his present
Iiih that she was 'probably snnpl lost I A esteru trip. Congressmen Identified with
In the Xos," were admittedly ver) anxious. I the Administration announced this after
today, noon
BRITISH SEIZE DUTCH MAIL BOUND FOR JAVA
RERUN, Jan. 31. "Malls destined for the Dutch colony or Java were taken
(y British authorities off the steamship Rembrandt, which sailed from AmsterT
dam on January 26 for Java," the Overseas News Agency states. "Reports from
Amsterdam assert that the British took mall off the steamship Zeelandla, which
(eft Amsteidam January 19 for South American ports."
FRANCE FREES AMERICAN COTTON FOR SWISS
BERNE, Jan. 31. The Krench Government, after long negotiations, has
released 1S.O0O bales of American cotton, which had been stored at Havre and
Boulogne and which could not be forwarded on account of the war. There Is
great need Jn Switzerland for cotton, some of the mills already having suspended
work. Great Britain has permitted Switzerland to Import 300,000 quintals ta
quintal Is 120.16 pounds) of Egyptian cotton.
GERMANS RESCUE STRANDED U-BOATS
LONDON, Jan. 31. Two German destroyers grounded on the southeast coast
of the Danish Island of Salthohn. in the sound, southeast of Copenhagen, accord
ing to a Reuter dispatch ftont Copenhagen, A German cruiser, accompanied by
trawlers, unived to assist in freeing the destroyers. Later advices to Reuter'a
from Copenhagen stated that both the destroyers wore refloated
II IM"- . II . ., J
POPE PLEDGES AID TO RESTORE BELGIUM ,
ROME, Jan 31 - Pope Benedict received Cardinal Mercjer in uudlcnw befor
the latter's departure to Helium. The J'ontiff told the Belgian prelate thaf t
would do evwy thing in his power to secure the re-establishment of BclgiyHi m
an independent State when tho terms of peace are diocusscd.
tmitrnMOtri
