Daily and Sunday C\/\ Cents a
Month
HERALD
30
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
IERAtD
NO. 3394.
WEATHER-WARMER; PROBABLY RAIN.
WASHINGTON. D. C. MONDAY. JANUARY 31. 1916.
AS firtt announced j?nuc??. ? * ' Thr Herald
gu?rante? full money'? ?worth to the purchaser?
of articles advertised in the ?display ?echinus? of tha
paper by any Washington merchant.
( Circolar Fmemithra1 l'Som Retrae it)
ONE CENT.
T. R.DENOUNCES
"SAFETY FIRST"
POLICY OF U.S.
Charges "There Are Insults
that Cannot Be Resented in
Months of Conversation.'
CHEERED BY.WOMEN
Brooklyn Audience Applauds
Colonel's Advocacy of Ac
tion by .Administration.
IF WAR COMES HE MAY GO
"Policy of Milk and Water Encour.
tat? Policy of Blood and Iron
.Abroad," He Say?.
Bf-adaJ r?a Th. Wuhlnc-Ir?. HermM
New Tork. Jan. 30?Theodore Roosevelt
mad. another bitter attack today on th?
"Wilson administration'? international
policies. He ?poke upon "promiee and
performance In International Duty," at
th? Academy of Music. Brooklyn.
Throughout. Col. Roosevelt had the full
?ympathy of his 3,000 h?sarer?. They ex
pressed this in hearty fashion at every
opportunity. Half thoae preaent were
women, and they seemed as enthusiastic I
as the man. Both seemed to like best
Roosevelt's interpellations ln hia set
?peech. They stopped him with applause
?a hen he said :
?'A policy of milk and water on our
met encourages other nations in a policy '
at blood and iron." When the handclap- ?
pine ceaeed, he added:
"We have been of no use to the Bel- j
inane, the Armenians, the Mexicans or
anybody else. The government policy
has been 'safety first.' It is the motto
of the men who Jump into the lifeboats '
ahead of tha? women and children."
"They say I want ?rar. But there ta
no on- hire who wants it less. We have
four boys, and .?hey would go. The ?Irla,
too. would do their pert here at home;
perhapa I would so."
Speaking of The Hague convention?.
wWc? CM. rtooarretn ?Xetareri hart beta?
"arampled upon." and our notes of pro
t? a' he aaid. expressing; his humiliation
that the United States had not acted
"If a man's wife is threatened ana
?orne orne says, 'I'll slap her face,' ana
If he doe? ?lap her face, and the hus
band does -tot act. then he is the kind
of a man f would rather have leave the
country. So there are insulta to nation.
that cannot be properly resented In
eleven months of conversation."
Slain Man's Son
To Help Mother
Little Charlie Mohr Will Add
His Bit to Father's
History.
K? SOPHIE TREADWELI..
Providence. R. I., Jan. 30.?Dr.
Mohr's little son. Charlie, will climb
into the witness stand tomorrow to add
his bit to th? family reminiscences of
his father that already have been writ
ten Into the court record. Dr. Mohr's
widow finished her recital yesterday.
Dr. Mohr's sister and Dr. Mohr's broth
er then will follow.
The greatest interest here attaches
to the appearance of Charlie, the little
lad who was trained by his mother to
?py upon his father. It is evident that
Charlie entered into this sad service
for his mother with all a child's en
thusiasm and devotion. Even in her
letters attacking; the "other woman's"
life, Mrs. Mohr invariably would quote
her little hoy as the source of her
jealousy-arousing- information.
The appearance of a little boy but
12 years of age as a witness In de
fense of his mother who Is on trial
for murder, cannot but have a power
ful emotional appeal.
This appearance of Dr. Mohr'? own
family in behalf of his widow accused
of murdering him. Is counted upon by
the defense to have cr??t weight with
the Jury.
Trains Craih; 53 Hurt.
Berlin. Jan. 30.?A dispatch from
Cologne reports that at Kalk. Just aerosa
the river, an expreas train collRled wTth
a hospital train and forty-seven passen
gers abroad the hospital train were
seriously injur?sd. Six persons aboard the
express train were injured and on? killird.
Military Tram Blown Up.
London. Jan. 30.?An Exchange telegram
from Zurich statea that frontier dis
patchea report a military train from
Frelborg was blown up yeaterday dur
ing a French air raid. Many persons
were killed and wounded.
Entente Minuter? Make Denial.
Athen?. Jan. 30.?The mlniaters of the
entente powers today iasued a denial of
German statement? to the effect that the
Grirek army Is being kept mobiiised In
accordant-? with the wishes of the allies.
Attrae?!??. Reatf?( ?avealent ?-ached?!?
To A'.igus'a, Atken. Columbia. Augnata
Special Iv Washington 7 p. m. dallv
Soith.m Ry.. T?? i5th-.nl G Sta_???
"Germany Violated Supreme Law
Of United States by Invading
Belgium," Declares Col. Roosevelt
Here are some striking sentences by Col. Roosevelt in his attack on
Mr. Wilson's foreign policies:
Under the sixth article of the Constitution of the United States, a
treaty is part of the supreme law of the land. Germany violated the supreme
law of our land, therefore, when she invaded Belgium.
Germany asks us to .put dollars above lives. If we follow such a
course we will cover ourselves with everlasting infamy.
A policy of milk and water in one nation encourages a policy of blood
and iron in another.
For five years we have pursued a policy of both cowardice and infamy
in the face of our duty toward Mexico.
The men. who advo?cate the so-called continental army are the enemies
of true preparedness.
WILSON GUARDS
POUNCE ON MAN
PULLING RAZOR
Austrian Excites Suspicion by
Actions Near President and
His Arrest Follows.
DENIES HE MEANT HARM
Executive Puts in Quiet Day
in Cleveland, Attending
Church in Morning.
SENDS OLLIE JAMES MESSAGE
After Long Auto Ride. Party Leaves
for Milwaukee. Where Speech
Will Be Made.
SpeeUl to Th? Washington Herald.
Cleveland. Jan. ?.?President Wilson
put In a quiet day here today, resting
from hts strenuous time of yesterday. H?
and Mrs. Wilson intended .services at th?
Euclid Avenue Presbyterian Church ^ls
TT?ornlr?sr. Their Visit to the church had
not been arranged in advance and the
congregation wae surprtaed to And the
President and his wife present.
While the President and Mrs. Wilson
were rpUin? Into their auto at the hotel j
to go to church, a man In the crowd be
gan fumbling? in his pockets. Detectives |
pounced upon him at once. A razor was |
found In hie pocket. He gave his name
as Charles Kalcestlan snd said be was
an Austrian. He denied that he knew the
President was In the city. He Is beine
held on suspicion.
This afternoon the President and his
wife went for a Ions; auto ride. They
stopped for a short visit with the Presi
dent's cousin. Mrs. 8. P. Fenn. 3061 East
Eighty-first street.
The only time the President considered
officiai affairs today was when he dictated
a telegram to Senator OHle James, to be
read before a meeting of Hungarians ln
New York. The telegram follows:
"May I not send my warmest greetings
to the meeting and will you not express
! for me my very deep and sincere confi
dence in the entire loyalty and patriotism
of th? great body of our fellow-citizens
who have strengthened and enriched
America by adding their energy to our
own to make a great America,"
The President's party left Cleveland late
tonight for Milwaukee, where the Presi
dent will deliver an address tomorrow
afternoon. Several speeches will be made
en route from the train tomorrow.
Mythical Blaze
Draws Thousands
Because Fireman Stokes His
Fire, Excited Pedestrian
Calls Firemen.
A fireman stoked his furnace ln the
basement of the G?*orge B. Kennedy Piano
House. 130*5 G street northwest, at 8:09
o'clock last night. At 8:15 o'clock four
flre engines and two trucks had rumbled
to a stop in front of the store. At 8:20
o'clock several thousand people, called
from the favored walks of the downtown
: section, were blocking the sidewalks and
streets In four directions from the cor
ner.
Belated passengers on ? stree-t cant
"cussed" the delay, as the motormen de
clined to cut the lines of hose with the
car wheels or bump Into each other. Po
licemen arrived and backed the crowds
off the stroets.
At 8:25 the firemen started away and
the crowd began to leave. At 8:36 o'clock
th? crowd was still leaving, while the dls
gruntle?. truck crews rolled up their un
needed hose. The furnace man continued
to punch his furnace, while the pedestrian
who pulled the alarm looked at the chim
ney's smoke again.
French Land on Isle of Crete.
London. Jan. 30.? A French warship
landed a force of sailors at Rethymenon.
; on the Island of Crete Th<* offlcers ar
rested the interpreter attached to the
. German ?-onsulate. took him ??oard the
| warship and sailed away.
GERMANY READY
TO GIVE WAY IN
LUSITANIA GASE
Embassy Official Says Any
Break in Negotiations Must
Come from U. S.
LANSING STILL HOPEFUL
Teutons Do Not Want to Ad
mit Sinking of Ship Was
Illegal.
RESENT MUNITIONS TRAFFIC
Kaiser's Government Believes It Has
Given Enough Ground in Conces
wons Already Made.
An official cloaa to tb? German Em
ba*5v U?t night expressed th? belief that
?frmany will make further concessione
to the United States In an effort to .set
tle the Lusitania caae.
If there la s break In relation, this of
ficia* RaM, lt will be forced on Germany
iy the unbending attitude of the I'nited
Statea.
"The German Tmbassy la not pessimis
tic." thla official added. "The diplomatic
negotiations have gone too far to fail at
this late date."
Another development of the day was
the statement of a high State ?Department
official, closely connected with the Lusi
tani* negotiations, that this government
continues to be hopeful of a settlement
Df the controversy.
Say Reasonable Demanda Conr-fdrd.
Whether this was inspired by any word
that Col. Edward M. House may have
communicated to Washington with refer
ence to his conferences with German
government officials could not be
learned. Although cable dispatches said
that Col. House had reported to Wash
ington, no official would admit that such
a report had been received.
The German Embassy's position, ac
cording to the official already quoted,
is that Germany has conceded every
reasonable demand in the Luaitania case
tn admitting the illegality of causing the
loss of American lives in a war reprisal
against an enemy and offering to pay full
indemnity, and by going to the extreme
limit to meet the demand of the United
States to prevent the recurrence of such
acts by practically giving up submarine
warfare.
What Germany has not done, and what
embassy officials believe she should not
be expected to do. Is to make admission
that the act expressly ordered as a war
reprisal was an illegal act, and to ac
company the payment of indemnity by
an admission of legal liability to pay
such Indemnity.
Knemle* Might Demand Indemnities.
Not only Is It the common practice of
nations. Including the United States, to
withhold admission of le.gal liability in
paying indemnity claim?, but there are
these two added reasons pointed to by
this official as Justification for Germany's
objections to going to this length:
First, that the German people, deeply
resentful of the traffic in arms and am
munition between the United States and
their enemies, believe Germany has given
ground in the concessions already made
to the United States, and feel resent
ment at the circumstances that com
pelled them to take up the submarine
campaign, the only effective naval war
fare at their command.
Second, that there is the possibility
that admission of legal liability may
bind the German government to pay In
demnity not only for American lives and
property lost, but for the *t!ves and prop
erty of all neutrals.
Furthermore, an admission of liability
may bring demands for Indemnities from
Gemaany's enemies when peace terms are
made. These indemnity demands might
reach staggering sums when It Is consid
ered th&t more than 600 vessels have
been sunk by submarines.
French Aviator? .Destroy Tents.
London, Jan. 30?An Ejtch&nge Tele
graph Company Athens dispatch ?says:
"French aviators on Saturday renewed
their attacks on the Bulgarian encamp
ments at Pasarudhi, their advanced po
sition in Macedonia. There were many
killed and wounded. *'lv? hundred tents
ware d-estro? ed.
Honor to Force German Navy
To Come Out and Do Battle,
Is British Expert's Opinion
Fred T. Jane Believes Enemy's Fleet Would Mutiny if Denied
Fight?Men Willing to Die to "Win Esteem' of
English Tars?Sporting Spirit Strong.
By JOHV R. H\II)I'1M?IN.
(Copyright, 1*1?.)
London, Jan. 1?.?"The German fleet
must come out and flght," said Fred T.
Jane, tn discussing the future of the war
at sea. Mr. Jane is the compiler ot
Jane's Naval Annual, the standard ref
erence work on naval matters in every
country, and is the leading lay expert
on warships In Great Britain, if not in
the world. He bases his belief on moral
grounds, and In explaining why the
Kslser's seamen will not refuse battle.
he paid a remarkable tribute to the men ?
and officers of the high seas' fleet. ,
They have modeled themselves, he saJd, j
on British aea tradition, and. having
adupted that tradition, would rather
mutiny than remain tamely In harbor
when ye-Acc draws near, and ?o earn the
scorn and contempt of British sailors.
So far from hate existing between the
rival navies, Mr Jane says they are unit
ed by the "brotherhood of the seas," and
"the fleets will kill each other merejy
for the sake of personal esteem."
Answering the question, "Will there he
a btg naval ?batti*** before the end of the
wer?" Mr. Jane said: "That depend?? on
what is understood by 'battle.' On land1
there has been inoesssnt fighting for'
COOTlNCOi OSi PAGE THREE.
?
Two IndianjPrincesses Meet;
One Is Wife of the President
Go-Wah-Heah-Doongwa, Direct Descendant of Pocahontas,
Travels from St. Regis, N. Y., to Cleveland to
Shake Hands with Mrs. Wilson.
gprd.l to Tb? WubiMUxi Hwsld.
Cleveland. Ji.n. SO.?Two daughtws of
Pocahontas met her* today. One was
Primes? Go-Wah-Heah-Dootigwa. a full
blooded Mohawk Indian.'The other was
Itr?. Woodrow Wilson, ?Vlfe of the Presi
dent uf tM* Ignited State?.
The Indian princess came to Clevel?**Jid
with her husband and the chief of her
tribe, from the Mohawk reservation at
St. Regis. N. Y.. especially to meet the
First Ledy of the um?! Princess G?'
Wiih-Heah-Dooin?? traces her ancettry
directly to Pocahonta*?. Hearing that the
President's bride aleo waa d??sc<?nded
from that famous Indian maiden, she
decided to pay her her compliments per
sonally.
Little trouble was experience in ar
ASSAILS PLAN
TO GUARD U. S.
Backers of Preparedness Are
Real Cowards, Says Rep
resentative Saunders.
"The backers of the preparedness prop
aganda have placed the brand of flabby,
shrinking cowards upon us. whom they
call peace-at-any-price men, but they are
the real cowards,* declared Representa
tive Saunders, of Virginia, In a heated
address at Poll's Theater yesterday aft
ernoon at a mass meeting of the anti
preparedness organizations of the Dis
trict.
Democratic Representatives from sev
eral States condemned the preparedness
program, and asserted that the munition
manufacturera of the l'nited States are
behind the movement, which they claimed
eventually will drag the country into
war. Representative Bailey, of Pennsyl
vania, presided. Telegrams were read
from Henry Ford, William Jennings
Bryan, and Allen Benson, containing
wishes for the success of the anti-pre
paredness organisation
V. S, fthould Repel Invader.
Representative ?Saunders reiterated the
achievements of the "farmer" soldiers'
of America, snd declared thst there is
no peace-at-any-price man in American j
life.
He charged thst unless the country Is]
able to repel any invader, the men who ?
have hsd charge of the expenditure of j
more than $2,000,000,000, for army and navy I
work during the past few years, should
be dismissed from the service.
Answering the charge that he assaulted
the President, Representatives Dies, of
Texas, said that he Intended no such
thing. "I only said he changed his opin
ion and every man has a right to change
his opinion, but I do say that I think
the opinion of the President one year ago
is the right opinion.'*
A sonorous "Amen!" from a corner of
the theater at every blow against pre
paredness elioted shouts of laughter and
applause from the audience. "The
Amen!" ?sounded very much like the ex
clamation used by Representative "Cy
clone" Davis, of Texas during a speech
of condemnation on the floor of the House
Friday by Representative Dies, and which
brought a sharp rebuke from Represen
tative Johnson.
Representative Calla way, of Texas,
member of the Naval Committee of
the House, stated that the people de
manding preparedness wanted a navy
that will cover all the water between
the United States and a foreign coun
try and an army that will take all the
able-bodied men of the country.
"The President says the world Is on
fire," he said, "but why should we
worry. There are 3,000 miles of water
between us andj?|flre."
?en us andana fli
ExploiTO^I^pk Powder Plant.
London, Jan. 30.?A Central News dis
patch from Basle, Switzerland, states that
the powder works near Rosenhefm, south
west of Munich, in Upper Bavaria, have
been destroyed by an explosion.4
ranging for the Indian princeps to meet
Mrs. Wil?on. When the President's wife
learned that the Indian woman had jour
neyed ?11 the way here Just to meet her.
she readily consented to the Interview.
Escortd by Chief Ix>uis Solomon, her
husband, and chief Thunder Water,
leader of the Mohawk Tribe, the Indian
princess was ushered Into the President's
suite at the Hollenden Hote!. *
Mrs. Wilson beamed kindly and stepped
forward and shook hand? with the In
dian princess. The latter, after exchang
ing greetings, handed Mrs. Wilson a
sweet grass basket which she herself had
made. The Indians were alt garbed in
their native raiment and afforded a pic
turesque seen? as they stood gasing at
Mrs. Wilson.
PEACE URGED
BY RUSSIANS
"Exalted Personages" Ac- j
cused in Duma of Making
Overtures to Germany.
London, Jan. 30.? A report received here
today from Petrograd declares that cer- |
tain exalted personages, members of the
Conservative party tn Russia, have made
overtures to Germany with a view of j
concluding a separate peace pact. So
much importance is attached to the re- j
ports that th? matter has been under dis- !
cuaslon by the budget committee of the
Duma. The discussion related to the j
policy of M. Khorstoff, minister of the ?
Interior. The open charge was made In
the Duma by Its president. M. Rodsian- j
ko, that these "exalted personages" were ;
working to this end.
M. Rodzlanko corroborated the reports |
by declaring that he had received a let
ter from the Princess Wasilthikoff. who -
was then in Moscow, asking him to co
oi*erate in the negotiations. The presi-?
dent of the Duma showed this letter to
the minister of foreign ?ffairs. M. Sar
?n off. Shortly afterward the princess
went to Petrograd with a view of carry
ing out her projects in person.
M. Khorstoff admits that the princess (
was In Petrograd.
"While It Is true that she came," he ?
said, "she was shadowed all the time she ?
was here by the government secret po- j
lice. Her position became so delicate
that ehe was eompelled to quit the cap
ital and retire to one of her estates In
South Russia.
"We shall not speak of peace until Rus
sia has achieved a complete victory. We
are in no hurry to finish the war, as the
people are with us.
"In the internal life of Russia, perfect
and permanent order must h- restored
and maintained. We shall be obliged to
crush any and all disturbers of the
peace."
The conservative element, represented
by the minister ' of the Interior, wants
peace primarily, lt Ls declared, because
they fear a revolution is Imminent
British Officers Hurt in Crash.
Ix>ndon, Jan. 30.?Lieut. Col. Frederick
Holmes Hopkins and his brother. Sec
ond Lieut. R. H. Hopkins, of the Cana
dian contingent, were seriously injured
at Worthing. Sussex, while motoring this
afternoon, according to a dispatch to the
Chronicle.
Allies' Aeroplanes Fare Badly.
Constantinople, (via Berlin and wireless
to Say ville), Jan. 30.?Aviator First Lieut.
Buddeke has brought down several hos
tile aeroplanes In the Dardanelles An
other aeroplane, driven by Lieut. All Rlia
Bey. with Orkhan Bey as observer,
brought down two aeroplanes of the allies I
in one day near Sedd Ul Bahr.
Sir Clements Markha.ni Dies.
l*ondon, Jan. ?.?Sir Clements Mark
ham, the famous explorer, died today.
Bethmann-FJollweg Throws Down
Gauntlet to Great Britain on the
Battleground of Economics
By GUSTAV ?CHW*BFPKJrDl?TK.
?p.rl.l t? Tke ? n.bl??l..r I? T.M
New York, Jan. 30.?"Great Britain it tht obstacle to peace She hopes
to starve Germany into submission. We will meet her 00 the economic
battlefield which she has selected."
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg made this statement recently to
party leaders in the Reichstag. He ?called them into conference to pre
sent a frank outline of the situation. The chancellor's view was given
to me by a leader who was present. The chancellor said :
"England is compelling her allies to refrain from entering upon any
movement which has peace as its obj?ect. Having failed to crush Germany
by armed force, she hopes now to succeed in an economic war.
"For Ais reason the war will probably last for sometitne," continued
the chancellor. "1 am telling you this since we may as well prepare for
it. We must take measures to safeguard our food and other supplies.
We must be independent of all overseas trade which is controlled by
Great Britain.
"The only thing we need is rubber. We shall not give up the ship
for lack of a few rubber bands"
SILENT GUNMAN
MAKES USE OF
NEW EXPLOSIVE
-;
Compressed Fulminate and
Quicksilver Employed to
Hurl Lead Without Noise.
CARTRIDGEISFOUND
Expert Chemist Called Upon
to Make Analysis of Cyl
inder's Contents.
MADE BY ONLY ONE CONCERN
New England Company Will Be Ap
proach-id for Information in
Search for Fugitive. _
_
bieteis: f< Trim Wukteffton ^atmli.
Albany, N. Y., Jan. SO-The .silent gun
man, who on Friday shot four residents
of this city nolseJeesly, us?ed a cartridge
loaded with a heavily compressed ful
minate and quick-silver inste-ad of pow
der. The police have one of the unex
ploded cartridges. The bullets are ao
small they would not pierce a heavy
overcoat at a distance of twenty feet
were the ordinary powder used as the pro
pelling force. This Information comes
to the police In a way that make? the
mystery of the silent gunman all th?
more absorbing.
James L Hyatt, chief of police of Al
bany, has called ln an expert chemist,
and has sent detectives to locate the
manufacturer of the chemical cartridges
With such cartridges, a maxim or any
other sort of silencer would be unneces
sary. The blow of the firing pin upon
the base of the cartridge is sufficient to
explode the intermingled quicksilver and
fulminate. The result Is no noise louder
than a hiss, but the bullet is driven with
a force three times as great as powder
would generate.
Hyatt has beeen informed that a New
England munitions plant has for six
months been experimenting with such
noiseless explosives. It is declared that
but one concern in the world?the New
England people?know the secret.
"This gunman may have been employed
by the makers of this explosive," declared
Hyatt today "We believe him to be a
maniac. It Is possible that he has be
come deranged because of the war. He
may thus be trying for himself the worth
of this new explosive"
James Erwin, one of the silent gun
man's Victims, has but little chance to
recover. He is 60 years old. He told
the police today that he heard nothing
aud felt only a ?light twinge of pain
Mrs. John McKeown, who is 70 year?
old and was shot soon after Erwin, may
recover. She, too, says that she heard
nothing.
Edward C. Kenny, a third victim. Is
rapidly recovering.
HYPNOTISM OF NO AVAIL
A. S. Brown Fall? tn Win Bark
FitrAinH Wife.
FYeeport, Long Island, Jan 30. ? Alexan
der S. Brown's knowledge of hypnotism
availed him nothing today when he
failed in efforts to get his wife, Irene
Brown, to return to live with him.
A year ago Justice Frederick C. Cue
granted the couple a separation for one
year. The time expired at midnight Sat
urday.
Brown dressed himself this afternoon
In his best and called at his wife's home
to plead with her She was "not at
home."
OCCUPATION SHOCKS GREEKS.
Athens. Jan. ?30.?Tha occupation of
Kara Burnu has created a sens-ation
here, owing to the fact that two weeks
have passed since the occupation of
Corfu, which was regarded as the las*.
of the series of occupations.
It Is stated that the Kara Burnu inci
dent is a measure of prudence, and that
the allied troops will be removed the mo
ment the danger of the Austro-Germac
menace at Saloniki Is remov-ad
FRENCH FORCED
BACK 2 MILES
BERLIN CLAIMS
German Infantry Penetrates
More Than Half Mile and
Takes 1.300 Prisoners.
PARISMAKESDENIAL
French Rifle Fire Declared to
Have Forced Teutons to Re
tire with Heavy Losses.
BATTLE SOUTH OF THE SOMME
Only Point Upon m'inai Ofiicial State
ments Agree It that Attack
Occurred Near (tompierr?
ormetal Cebi, to Th? WaSbiBclac Herald.
London. Jan. 30.?Tbe French Une
? south of the Pomme has been preaaed
back by the German attack over a
width of more than two miles, accord
; Ine to official ci?im*? from Berlin
Theae reports stats that the German
' infantry pen***^a*^ to the depth of
, ti-ec- i?Mkt*^Sr'^P - :le Nearly 1.JO0
French mMmarOarwwere taken
The Pans report states that the
Germans hurled themselves against
' French lines on this aector in two
vicious attacks. They ware thrown
I back Into their tranches by the hurri
cane of French rifle fire and the
French batteries' rain of ?hells.
Today the activities of the ?lM?
were largely confined to mining op
erations and bombardments, ln which,
accordine to the Paris statement and
the British headguartera report, th?
Germans suffered heavily In damage
wrought ln thalr works and organi
The statement Issuad at Berlin to
day ?ays:
"Tbs conflict around the position
captured by us on and aouth of th?
road from Vlmy to Neuville ls ?till
? going on. A French ?ttack waa re
pulsed. The position conquered by us
south of the Somme haa been ex
tended to J.600 meter? In width and
1.000 meter? in depth. The total num
ber of officers taken wa? seventeen
?nd the soldiers m?de prisoner number
1,270. among whom were ?ever?l Eng
lish."
The French afternoon report aay?:
"Laat evening th? Germane deliv
ered an attack against our positions
aouth of the Somme, opposite Dom
! plerr?. Their Infantry were twice re
pulsed ?nd hurled back Into their
trench?? by our rlfl? flre and curtain
of fire. On the remainder of the front
nothing of importance ha? occurred."
U. S. SUB IS MISSING ;
MAY HAVE GONE DOWN
Vessel Being Convoyed to Pensacola
Disappear? Near Charleston, S. C,
and Cannot Be Found.
Charleston. 8. C. Jan. ??One of
! four submarine? being oonvo; it.? a
monitor, the Tallaha*???, ea rout? to
Pensacola from Hampton Roads, baa
been mlestng ?Ince 1 o'ekw* this rarr*rB
Ing. ?.
It is feared It h?s gnrte down.
The three remaining submarine? ar?
now off Charleston
The mlavtng submarine tn the K-?
The accompanying underwater boat??
ware her sister ship? tbe K.l. K-l and
; K-*. Tbe K-5 recently had undergo?*?*
repairs at the Brooklyn Navy Tard.
Search for the ralas'i-g sub was Im
mediately organised ? roast guard cut
ter and destroyer Worden were die
let? hed to the w?ters around Cape Ro
maine, wbere the ?-: was last seen
King Seeks His Eeleue
Madrid. J?n SP-Ktng Aifonse hai per
sonally Inierveneo, with li.t German au
thorities to ?ecure the releaae of M
Theodor, pre???!?y' ot th? ?Jolk-ge ot Ad
vocatea a*
NEW AIR
RAID ON
PARIS IS
REPORT
Twenty-three Lives Snuffed
Out by First Attack on
French Capital.
REPRISALS DEMANDED
Citizens Cry Out for Ven
geance on Germans and
Urge Counter Attacks.
NINE WOMEN AMONG KILLED
Seven Mutilated Boche? Found
Ruins of One Home Sstxttt
by Bomb.
?pulii CaW? h. The m.Xmjtm BmM
Pari?, Jan, 30.?Following the Zep
! pelin raid on Pan? last night, in which
, twenty-three person? ???ere kilted by
bomb? dropped on the ?city, Geraaa
flier? made another attack on tbe
| capital thi? evening.
About a dozen bomb? have been
dropped.
Report? of the extent of the dain
age of the second raid have not ye?
I b?een received.
Fifty-two person? were killed ot
j wounded in la?t night'? Zeppelin rosi.
; according to the complete reports
; available today
Nine women were killed and four
teen woun-ded; fourteen men were
killed and fifteen wounded
In-eluded among the luilec vu a
baby of eight-ten month?. ]? rhil
?eren were tnjured
Riii.?.? ?. Ham**
Tarn houses ? ere ttimt?????' hy the
raiders. In each of three houses el ?-ht
'??rere killed or Injured end tn another
house seven persons were killed ?or ta
| Jured.
One of the hoaises tn ?hlrh the moat
?ert?n, d?yn?sa? ?>?? done man a hot??
tn which the ramila had m?M to r?l?
hrste the return of s son. a Zouave.
I on leave of abtsence from the fro??!.
.Around the table were the grandfather,
<f< years: hla daughter the tatter's hus
' band, an aunt, two eons, and m girl of
! li years ?Seven mutilated bodies were
found in th?* ?r.ck?g? of the house
A corporal who had arrived at horns
? the previous evening from Hartmann
wellerkopf Instinctively fell on hla
tac* when the bomb struck the house
land made his wife do the same thing.
' The floor yielded and both ?Jail throngii
|to the ground floor, but were not seri
ously Injured.
Yesterday's raid was not entirety
j unexpected, ss a Zeppelin was seen ts
I the Epernay district on January it.
j undoubtedly making a trial execur
ston. As s result of this earlier ap
: psarance of one of the raiders, the
military governor of Paris definitela
refused to silo? Paris street lighting
to be returned to its normal footing, a
request to which s few weeks ago the
j military governor had shown himself
distinctly fsvorable If the plan had
i the approval of th?? defer?? esperta
RestiaeU lSaa.a?,.lrd
There Is no sign of pani?-, but In
! dlgnatlon Is ahown and demand* ar?
I made that each raid shall be answered
by aa aeroplane raid ?m a I'.ennan
| town
| Of the aeroplane? wlilch s roe? at L*
bourget within twentv minutase of Um
alarm, five got nisar the Zeppelin, one
ciotte enough to Are lt Is noted thst
?aturda? was chosen again for the raid,
a choice which Is atti ii?uted to the feet
that there are mors Pereons In the city
on Saturday night and the streeta are
' more crowded
The fact that only ?ne Zeppelin par
ticipated In the raid, leada to tbe belief
that tbe raid was merely a forerunner of
ether reads to ?rome It Is calculated that
' the aircraft traveled at tbe rwte of etxty
] miles an hour.
Prat-sit) em Poincar? visited Uie s nuns at
' lue explosions returning to tbe
Palace at 1 o'clock thla
| One bomb fell Into tbe
' tag an arch a few yarda from a
I from which a train bad started two salsa
ut?? before This bomb wea loaded with
? twenty-one kilogramme? of Tnnltrotav
luene.
COL HOUSE QUITS BERLE!
?- America n H.l?tln?i n?t??-r
1 ?n.raiM,?. A. ? , a? Il ?e? Batet
Berlin. Jan. ??Col marmare U House
President Wlleor ? personal repreeents
tlvs. haa left Bariin tar Parta a*d Lea
don b> way of esltseriajx* Cd Hoa-s?
said the conversations he had witk Oer
naarty's ststee-mer. ?snd bis >-nnfer?er?a-es
with Amt ?asa dar i~r*rmrc bai baam prof
itable and would ?md-sub-tedly ?ami te
clar?n-atIon of German Amerta-ar rei?
although lt was te be o??H?,
??aah.Tber a?-? net?' .te. teaigtbl? cramutp
^?enti oould Ha expascted tlmafima
