ALBUQUERQUE MORNING J OURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW M EX1C0M 0 N D A YJA NU A Y 31 L 1916
lhillj by Carrier or Mall, eo
a Moiitli. Single Onptaa, fi
MILL'S BOOM
FOR NOMINATION
OY REPUBLICANS
GROWS STRONGER
Talk of Senator Weeks Sub
sides as Possibilities of Bay:2
State Governor at Chicago
Wax in Volume,
OFTEN AT LOGGERHEADS
WITH PARTY LEADERS
Candidate After New Eng-
lit
mouth College, Is Asserted,
HOIL CORtRON01NC TO MORNINd JOUBNAU
Washington, Jnn. 30. The old com
monwealth of Massachusetts has lately
awakened to the fact that she has a
real presidential possibility in Gov
ernor Samuel Walker McCall, not in
Senator John Wingate Weeks, who
has been flirting with New England
in the hope of being designated as the
favorite son of a territory very loyal
.. i-iniiblieiin mineiides but never
hove tli.. vice residency
land S Heai'l! UllCe WaS: Cnahle to quench his light entirely,
. , . , n i 'the republican organization made him
Offered PreSIClenCy OF Dart-; chairman of the llhrary committee.
when it came to naming the ticket. hull of representatives with the oh
Samiicl W. Met'all will be 64 years jects in view, first, to obtain light and
..i.i ,., (in. :sii. of next February, but air. which the hall had never had,
hi.. .! full fiirur.. L'lves no sign of
decay. He is a vigorous physical and close enough together to hear each
mental entity. other in debate.
He is of the type that New Kngland One Itcform IHI1.
favors, the scholar in politics. Henry One of his principal measures out
Cabot Lodge Is one example.. McCall side of his own committees was the
is a butter, for while he has not writ
ten so many hooks aw Lodge, those he
has written ore better and he is ft man
ef broader culture and more genial
sympathies.
His alma mater, Dartmouth, tried in
vain to get him to retire from congress
and accept her presidency, no was
educated for the law and practiced but
has n'so been a man of business and
an editor on the Boston Daily Adver
tiser. lie was three times a member of
the Massachusetts general court or
legislature, and rose to the chairman
ship cf the Judiciary committee.
Talk (.rows ltupidly.
fn 1S9S he wes elected to congress
from the Eighth or Harvard district I
and continued to be re-elected until
1910 when he retired with the inten
tion of running for the. senate. He
was beaten by-Weeks and later tried j
for the governorship. j
He went down in the landslide,
which the split in the republican party!
brought about. David I. Walsh, dem-1
ocrat, became governor of Massachu-1
setts. Walsh then in turn beat Au- j
gustus Peabody Gardner, but last year;
McCall came up again and beat Walsh j
decisively. There began immediately
to be discussion of McCall as a pi'-si- !
dentlal possibility, notwithstanding1
the fact that Weeks had been cam- i
paignlng all over New Kngland and ;
there seemed no room for another j
New Kngland entry. Tli re Is not in i
the same sense that McCall can get i
many instructed delegates but the:
feeling is that Weeks will not get fur-j
tlvT than : complimentary vote If he)
starts at all und that then there will;
be room to develop the McCall move-
nient. ;
Talk of McCall is based on three!
things: i
First, his mature and high grade in
tellectual attainments.
Second, bis independence as mani
fested in his career in congress.
Third, his availability flowing from
the other two conditions.
Uis mental equipment has been al
luded to. There is no doubt of the.
great attainments of Mr. McCall. His
speeches in the house showed a fine
grasp of public iiuestions. A
iiiiinor ran through them.
One of the most notable of bis
speeches was a complete answer to
the attempts to make Itoosevelt a
third-term candidate. In beginning
his speech. Mr. Met'all said, amid
laughter, that he was convinced it
was going to be a good speech and
added that his confidence was based
on the fact that it would be made up
of iutatlons from very eminent au
thority on the subject he was going to
discuss.
.iiitiiui-jiy on i iir, 1 1. j
Mis tariff speeches were of the same
high-grade character. He stood for a!
moderate tariff. He disagreed from
the extreme protectionists and his In
dpendence prevented bis promotion In
the house. He was known us the had
boy of the house, hut when there
canie the onslaught on Speaker Can
non, Mr. MvCall. though he had been
snubbed and kept in the background
by Cannon, published in the Saturday
'veiling Post an elaborate defense of
the speaker and sought to Inform the
eountry bv an array of facts and fig- dent on the attitude or iiicsc niuos
ures of the wonderful service Mr. Can- men towurd America an attitude
mm had rendered his country In con-which has been described as one ot
Kress. The article like everything friendliness und a desire to avoid any
else Mr. McCall has written, was 1 complications with the T'nited Wales
scholarly, trenchant and coinprehen- jso far as is comparable with t.er
x'V". Rut this was not the most re-imuny's vital interests and Internal
niarkable thing about i(. The novel-' harmony and lie w ill be able to sup
'V of the article was that it was pub-! port and supplement Ambassador
lished i,y tt man who had never been i Gerard's reports by personal declara
a favorite of the speaker at a time;tions made with the foreknowledge
"hen the fight in congress against ! that they will go direct to the prcsi
c.'innrm was the hottest. This was likejdcnt.
Mi-Cull, (iernian Leaders Interested.
MiOMed Independence. ! It is presumed that the German
He could not be accused of toady inn ; leaders now have a clearer eompre
to Cannon. It was onlv to be attribu-jjietislon of the limits and intents of
ed to his hatred of sham or brutal j President Wilson's policy and partic
flBhts. M(Call above everything clsejularly of the ideus he has for a
loves fair play und real contests. working arrangement harmonizing as
His congressional district liked him I far as possible with the interests of
f"r his independence. He could ' re-1 neutrals Hnd the two belligerent
main i congress forever, forever 'groups. Many Germans, especially
flouting the powers that be. said one those interested in foreign affairs, arc
of his opponents. Rut a time cameseeking enlightenment from all pos
ben McCall. the independent, found isible sources in an endeavor to figure
himself McCall, the regular, simply 'out which group President Wilson
because the wave of radicalism flowed .had in mind in the reference in his
"ver aiul i,i, recent slice, h to the uncertainty of
He would not be driven by it. iHejthe international relations
iiiMirgcd -when it cost him something t'nited States tomorrow.
lrisnrce. He became legular when
be believed that tile new regularity
was conducive to good government.
Thug he alternately got the curses
of (he reactionaries and of the ndi-
THE WEATHER
WKATIIKK FORECAST.
Deliver, Jnn. 30. Now .Mexico:
Monday generally fair south, show
north portion; Tuesday generally lair.
LOCAL, MTPLVniK.U Rf l'onT.
For twenty-iour hours, ending
at
8 p. m. yesterday:
Maximuin temperature, 44 degrees;
minimum, 21 degrees; range, 20 de
grces; temperuturc ut B p. m. yester
day, 38 device."; southwest wind;
cloudy.
fills. At one time he took such a
standing against bloating the pension
Hut that It win said he could not fcet
Ret a grand army Vote In Massachu
setts, At another he sacrificed all or
most of his popularity with lahor men
irless and tremendously cflert-
k on the initiative and rcfei-
- ? -
tinie whtn It. was
ill of the ills 'f
democracy,
I'oimin Turin- inn.
Ho might have been chairman of
the ways and means committee ami
have drawn the latest republican tariff
hill if he had not been an insurgent,
lint because he was. one, he was on the
tail end of the committee which drew
the I'ayne-Aldrich bill and from the
outer fringe fought, and micccedi d in
killing, some of its objectionable pro-
1 iniviuni
; J 1 1 In WilS a position Willi, r tin il uniuv.
to his cultivated tlitnct because mis
committee not only has charge of the
vast congressional library, but over
sees all the erections of statues in the
capital. McCall promoted the act
which established an art commission,
thus robbing his committee of part
of its powers but putting the creation
of art objects in the hands or experts,
with significant results for the beauty
of the capital.
ills most striking work In the li
brary committee was his overcoming
the Inertia of the house and forcing
through a measure to reconstruct
me
and. sucondly to brine the members
bill for the publication oi campaign
contributions.
This bill was first introduced in the
Kitty-ninth congress. It was reported
in the firth session of the. Sixtieth, but
the senate not having suffered from
the iron prods of Insurgency, killed it.
McCall came back in the sixty-nrst
und put the bill through, the senators
having first clipped its claws with a
proviso that the publications should
ho made after instead of before elec
tion. This has since been corrected
and McCall is the author of the first
'act to put un end to the free use of
I money in the election of members of
congress.
t
ENDS VISIT TO
Believes Conversations
German Statesmen and
Conferences Witii Ambas
sador Productive of Good,
V MORNING JOURNAL BPEUAL L.CASKD WIREl
Berlin, Jan. 30 (via London, !l:4l
,,. ni,) Cd. Kdward M. House, presi
dent Wilson's personal representative,
has left Merlin for l'arls and London
by way of Switzerland. Prior to his
departure, though declining to be
quoted with any particularity on the
results of his mission, Colonel House
said he was very glad he bad come to
COLONEL ROUS
TEUTON CAPITAL
playful , Merlin and added tbat tlie convei su
ctions which he hud had with leading
German statesmen und prominent men
iu private life, and particularly his
conference Willi Ambassador Gerard
tool been most urofilable and would
undoubtedly lead to a clarification
of
'Herman
American relations.
His visit, which was cluetiy tor
formative purposes, can scarcely
lu
be said to have brought him any
novel
or unexpected light on the
German
sil nation, the main
outlines of which,
It appears,
a re
well understood in
IWushingtoii.
No Startlim- Disclosures.
j Colonel House will, therefore, it Is
believed, convey to the president
'nothing startlingly new upon the Ger
man situation and the altitude of the
government, but a ma-s of detailed
information worked into shape in his
long discussions with Mr. Gerard.
' In the same way it may be sold
that Colonel House, upon whom Inter
views with several of Germany's load-
Ing
statesmen left a most agreeauiu
impression, will report to tne presi-
of the
Alarid Made Deputy Sheriff.
Santa Ke, Jan. 30. Sheriff Charles
Clossoti yesterday appointed Rcilito
Alarid a deputy sheriff.
MOST IMPORTANT
SPEECH OF TOUR
IS SCHEDULED
IL!
President Leaves for City
Made Up Largely of German-Americans
to Whom
He Expects to Make Appeal
PREPAREDNESS POLICY
TO BE PRESSED HARD
Opposition of Chairman Hay
and Other Democratic
Leaders in Congress Has
No Terrors for Wilson,
lav MORNING JOURNAL tl-ICIAL UIO WIRfl I
Cleveland, Ohio, Jan. SO. Prcsi- j
dent Wilson departed from Cleveland
tonight for .Milwaukee wiiere tie
plans to deliver one
portant speeches of
of th.) mont im-
u... ...i.i. ii.. .. .....
inn iiiiuuir iem-
He is believed
crn trip tomorrow.
FOR MILWAUKEE
to have sounded the keynote of his ! or ciiliiuaiiua, ifoanuilu ami Durungo,
Milwaukee speech in a telegram sent j according to J. jW. Neweome, a. llril
today to Senator Ollie James of Ken- lf)ll dooto. and i Journalist who until
K-iiSm1:.,: ncw" hr'V'rH1 mmi
gram follows: puclty for the Carranzu government
"May I not send my warmest greet- j in northern Mexico,
iligs to the meeting and will you not j "in chihuahua sute particularly,"
express for mo my very deey and says Dr. Neweome, "1 saw children,
sincere confidence in the entire loy- j girls and boys as young as twelve
ally and patriotism of the. great body j and fourteen years stark naked In
of our fellow citizens who have ! the cold temperatures of the high
strengthened and enriched America j lands. Many of the women were
by adding their energy to our own hardly better off tis regards to cloth-
out of thy nations which have Joined
their stocks to inuke a great
America?"
To Appeal to Foreign Horn.
liccuuso of the large foreign born
population in Milwaukee, thu presi
dent Is expected to urge all Ameri
cans, no matter where horn, to stand
for America first. He will also re
peat bis warning that the I'nitcd
States must be prepared because of
the uncertainty of the international
suuauon. j less man tins amount. There are no
Advisers of the president said to- crops now and the small corn supply
day that in practically every Speech H rnpldly dwindling. Starvation will
he w ill continue to einphaslzo the i , rampant throughout northern M"X
possibility that the United Stales may ic before (ho year is many mouths
lie drnwn into the Kuropean si niggle ! older.
as the reason why lie believes mo
army and navy should be strength
ened without delay.
To Heal Down Opposition.
.Notwithstanding the opposition of
Chairman Hay, of the house military
affairs committee, and other congres
sional leaders in Washington to the
administration's continental iirmy
plan, 1'ivsidont Wilson expected to
continue to support it giving the rea
son that the nation needs a trained
reserve force under the uuthority of
the federal government. He has
taken cure, however, io say me na-
tione.l guard should al.so be strength-
ened.
Hctails of the army and navy plans
are being avoided by the president
in, his talks to the pople. He has
generalized by saying a. reserve army
of at least ",00,'niO trained men, a
larger navy ami more coast (icieusen
are needed. He is telling his audi
ences thai, the army and navy plans I
have been can fully drawn up and'
that the judgment of the executive!
.should be trusted. j
Spends Sunday (.biirtlv. j
With Mrs. Wilson, the president
spent Sunday here quietly. They had I
an early breakfast in their suite. At j
11 o'clock they motored five miles j
to' the Kuclid avenue Presbyterian!
church where Hev. Ab x McCaffin, un
old friend of Mr. Wilson Is the pastor, j
The president's plans were not known
in advance and only the usual con
gregation of th church saw him.
At the request of the clergyman
IX whad"erVrrr: !
noon they took a long automobile
ride and spent the evening in their I
suite. I
Mrs. Wilson received three Indians j
in her room tills morning and was;
given a sweet grass basket by Prin-
cess Go-H'ah Hcad-Doongwa, of the;
St. Regis reservation in New York, i
Chief II. Y. Thunderingwater and j
Chief Louis Solomon stolidly shook
hands with Mrs. Wilson. They said
they wanted to meet her because they
had heard she was descended from
locahontas.
The president will arrive In Chi
cago at six p. m. tomorrow and, afte.r
..I., ...in .,;...
oiiiioK n ivtti'-ijr, " '
meeting in the Auditorium. Tumor-
rimr ftO.ht 11.' I l,. i'Iii'MI rt tf'liWMiLTn
and then the president will go on to
le Moines, Topeka, Kansas City and
St. Louis.
PRESIDENT WILSON IS
IMWITTn TO PI ne'l"l'1;m'l "'!' lll,''' V'IH no cause for, T,. Zeppelin must have I i going
IWVIIUU IU ULU V IO alarm, hovveer. They believed the 1 ;1 1 tcl, M ,hat. neighborhood
submarine had become separated from f,,r ti,,, nearest trace of it beyond
(tPtc.AL corriifondsnci yo morn, na jouknal tile other vessels In (lie heavy fog ouditliere w'as a quaiier if a mile away
Clovis. X. M., Jan. 30. Curry coun-hud been unable to locate them ai.ain. I where a bomb fell full in the center
ty democrats are figuring on Just howl I of u thick stone wall and, cutling a
they can see President Wilson whllejlU'llKlia) M'AKCII Ttllt ' I big boc. out of 11. as cleanly as If
he is making his swing around the LOST Nlil.MKKNllSLi;! p m, heen done by a knife, dug
circle. .vow, wnne uarry county;
thinks slie is some rumpkins, she
coniu naldiy expect a real live prest- 'sumons auniK '" i-ouin nun m in a more populous , planer a union
dent (o pay her a visit, especially I coast guard cutters and the torpedo: struck a. six-story apartment building
while he has a somew hat obstreper- bon t destroyer Wordcii were pressed j i.ecupied by the families of worliinu
ous congress on bis hands. Amarillo tonight Into the search between lu re' men, burying ten victims, under tin
is trying to get the president to stop und Cape Coma in for the submarine . deibis of the central part of the
there and make a speech, with tires-
ent prospects for succos good, and the'
following has been telegraphed to j that the submersible was missing be
president Wilson: :came known here tonight wln n the
"While we would like to have youlK-1, K-'i and K-H with the monitor
visit Clovis on your western tour, if ITallahassee arrived off this port but
you cannot, we wish to Join Amarillo, j did not enter because of the dense
Tex., In her invitation to stop there
that a bug.? deb gation of vour ad-
mirers from Clovis niav see and heanroiite from N w York to Key Wi
you in Amarillo.
Th invitation was signed by
Robinson, county chairman;
Harney, mayor; . I). Wagner,
master, and Fred W. James.
l.ucero Kctnrniiig Home.
Santa Ke, Jan. X0. Secretary of
Slat" Antonio Lucero has left Chicago
for home, corning via Kl Paso and Las
Cnieen and expecting to arrive in San
ta Ke tomorrow.
HUNGER, COLD AND ZEPPELIN RI
DISEASE RAVAGE CAUSES DEATH
MEXICAN PEOPLE, OF 24 PEOPLE;
SAYS PHfSICIAN 2 ARE INJURED
i
Young Girls and Boys Naked!
in Highlands of Northern
Section 'and Women Have
Practically No Clothing,
ALL FOOD SUPPLIES
ARE NOW VANISHING
Typhus Fever Is Not Common'
but Ravages of Typhoid
and Pneumonia Are Carry
ing Off Victims Rapidly,
i
( MORNIN JOUL raciAL IIUID Willi
Kl Pusn, TeK Jan. DO. The Mar.
vation and distress reported among
; tne n;,tVe population of the Mexican
state of Sonera can
state of Sonora can nardly eoual the
... , ,
j conditions that prevail
in the
flates
jntf. j xaw Umi)y Who were covered
only by tattered remnants of old
dresses which amounted to but little
more than girdles. Most of the coin-
mou people hnvo not hud shoes or
even sandals for years. i
"Robust Mexican peons," continued '
Dr. .Neweome, fwhi. easily can eat 1
sixteen to elghtten tortillas nt a sit
tin", now have. 'to subsist on two or!
three of these corn hatter cakes a i
day. The women und children get
"What 111 tie corn there is, sells fori
eighty ct ids Mexican, per litre, which!
is more (ban Mexican workmen can 1
earn even under fairly normal condi- j
lions, and wilhTue mines and other'
j industries conducted by foreigners I
jshiit down there Is practically no j
work to be bad now."
Neweome added that I he few Kuro- I
pean physicians left In northern Mex- i
! ico report widespread epidemics of
pneumonia and typhoid among the
j common people, w hile the death rale
I from tuberculosis is rapidly iiioreas-
i jnM-, Typhus fever, he said, was not
j K(.nerully prevalent in northern stales,
Neweome also declared that he pe'r-
, nomillv . many vleiims of leprosy
j ,c,amlng at will and asserted, on the
authority of other medical men, that
! H,,,.f i(. ,ll(,d diseases tainted a large
j j)rprt Ion of the population.
REPORTED LOST
II ft HEAVY FOG
One of Four Submersibles
Route From New York
Pensacola,
Fla,, Gets Out.
of Wireless Touch
IBV MORNINS JUUftNAL SfCCIAL LIAIIEO MIRE)
Washington, Jan. yo. One of the I
i four submarines of the Iv type, a'
member of a flolillu of four subnier-!
sihles en route from the New York
navy yard to Pensacola, is "lost in the
f(.
according to an official navaP
radio message received here tonight,
,ral.',, ,,! ,,v ,,,,.
' 1
uiciii came in icrqioose 10 an iiejiti,.
to the submarine tender Tallahassee
on v narn sion, pi. i . neyono soiling i
that she had been unable to locate the
sunmersiiue, ine message coma men
no details. Navy department officials;
Charleston, S. ('., Jan. So. Wireless
K-R. which has heen lost liiico about i
' o clock suii'iay morning. ine iaei
;iog.
Willi tne K-., these vessels wen
K-'t tlleKe vessels
N w York to K"i
t.
Somewhere off the cnasl ear
today i
I . . " .
U. . Slf (11 E
K. 11. 'the K-5 was missed und until lab In
Cash I night no word had come of the v s-jiiist-isel,
us far as known here. All efforts
to get informal inn from the naval sta
tion as I, i whether there has been an
accident to th. K-.",, hire, were una
vailing. Soon ,' fler the report reached
Charleston the const guard cutlers
Yamacraw and Semirinle as well as
the Wonlen and buoy tender Man
grove left to starch the coast waUrs.
Aeroplanes Are Pie-
vented by Fog From Suc
cessfully Attacking German
Airship Over Paris,
DOZEN HEAVY BOMBS
DROPPED BY RAIDERS
High Explosives Tear Great
Holes in Streets and Smash
Houses; Queer Freaks Are
Found in Wrecked Buildings
I IMT M0RNIN4 JOURNAL BPCCIAl. HAafcO AIM
! I'aris, Jan. 30 CI:3o p. m.l Twenty-four
persons were killed und Iwen-
ity-scven Injured In the Zeppelin raid
over Purls Saturday night, according
Ito an official statement given out in
dav.
i Ten of the wounded were placed in
! hospitals owing to the .severity of their
'hurts.
(Discussing the defense against thu
j Zeppelin raid, one of th" men w ho
I participated said:
I Thick l og riruillctl.
i "It is not through lack of fore
1 sight or lick of speed that the aero
planes were unable to reach the hns
;tlle air craft. The fog was tin, real
j reason for the tieruuin success. Last
! night It covered l'arls completely and
the searchlights were tillable to pierce
this wall. At. for the land artillery,
it was confronted with absolute ln Is
I lhlllty making II impossible to fire.
! Aeroplanes rowcrli'Ms.
! "All the aeroplanes were put inl'i
operation when the alarm of thn
presence of a Zeppelin was given, but
oulv the aviators of the neclor entered
by the Zeppelin were able lo perceive
it. Kven nvst of these got only a
glimpse as the Zeppelin was not us
ing searchlights. The aviators in the
other sectors were aide onlv to re
main In the ulr and guard their dis
tricts, which they did for several
hou rs."
Tired on the Zeppelin.
Klve Krencli aeroplanes are said t
have fired on the Zeppelin nun of
them pursuing it toward (he west for
more than fifty minutes. Thirty
machines took part in thu hunt for
the raider.
Frightened doubtless bv the num
erous war planes rising toward i(,
the Zeppelin wheeled and drove at
full speed northward, dropping In H
trail Into the darkness u cargo of
about three and one half tons of j
bombs. Then, continuing lis lligbt
11,000 feet above the eailh, the air
ship vanished.
I Ample Warning Glint.
Parisians had been warned half an ,
; hour before by fire
VrmiMading'um
! through the streets, trumi
:eall know n as "stand lo arms," of the
! presence of the raider. The electric
.'street lights went out and policemen
cautioned careless householders to
' close their shutters and darken their
i windows. It was still early In the
night, close to 10 o'clock, and manv
i persons were In the streets, (lie cafes i
Were open und the moving pieluroj
! theatres and play houses were Mill .
j entertaining their audiences. Then
i in all parts of the city could be heard
jtlie whirr of numerous aeroplane pro.
pollers, while everywhere people went
I 1 1 a. ,,t III.. 1, nl, 'in, leu lo Willi. Ii lor V.rli-
,,ii,,u
i "Parisians Doubled Attack.
i.-..w ! mi,,i, i,i,n,,.,r,.,t bel iece
ill,.. ,-.iI.Ii.,k Mere liliclv lo come as
French
' they had been luiued back many I Th dlisloii between (he Hen Leo
times previously. Hut suddenly In one and the Philadelphia, which was out
of Hie northeastern parts of Paris iward bound fiom Liverpool, lor New
ell ! there was a great flare in the skylyoik, occurred ubout 9: SO o'clock
, : as the Zeppelin dropped an llluminant Saturday night. The !en Lee speed
10 So thai it might he seen by those on Illy became waterlogged. I'ler crew
hi.'
airship whether they were overjwas rescued by the
city. Then a bomb fell Inlo a,n,indon und landed
through Inlo tin
ion, .Llv ii Kerie.i of oilier rtetioial Ions
i occurred
Koiiniling dully throughout
i the city.
(neer lYcaks itt liotlilm.
one of the missiles fell on un Iso
laled house occupied by a, single fum-
ily. The building was bisected, one
lend being demolished and its oecu-
J'""" ' u '"r ,u ' ." n"rn ,,1
1,11.1 ivine.i. I nr in. t'l -ini tli ....
house was cut off and a bed room
on (lie second floor was left Intact
v,-j(h
fl()ir
its occupants uninjured. The
was carried away and the bed
balanced on the Jagged edge of the
ruins Willi a nine-year-old boy In it
. ..
linliia- at. Ton Sliced.
Itnroiign ine pavement oeepiy into t in:
' t,, t-1 1 1 . causing a. bad cave in.
uriiiiiiri
j Altogether a dozen bombs Weighing
I about ijoo pounds each wcr. dropped.
None of the fatalities occurred In
the open streets, the majority of (be
' vleiims being killed iu their beds.
I President poineare who, iu company
wiih the military governor of I'aris,
n 'and the prefect of police, visited the
scen ,f the wreckage deemed greatly !
moved bv what he saw. one of the
hons'-s that he viewed was that oil
Police Sergeant Lidanlt, who had jasl 1
leached his home and who was killed j
by a bomb. j
line of the bombs fell In the court
yard of a hotel. A corporal returning
from the front at Hartmaiiiis-Wi iler
kopf had lust entered the street Willi
his wife when the explosion occurred,
liolh ceiiped injury.
Another bomb destroyed a modest
slreel, crushing tlirough inlo the. sub-(,,. seaman mi the Hen Lee was b:nl-mg. , mi vioi,,,-,,, i.oj
wav ami (earing a hole fifteen icct!v nared. The Philadelphia sus-iol Sail Diego, and others, said that
in diameter but injuring no one. !tilned considerable damage to hcrj nothing but the breaking of the Mor
Summaru or War
News of Yesterday
Twenty-four p, rsons were killed and
Irtenty-seven injured when a Zeppe
lin airship Saturday iiiubt dropped
some three and one-half tons of c-
loslvcs on the 'ity of l'arls and es
caped in the fog
Another Zeppelin raid on Paris was
threatened Sumbiy night, warnings be
ing sounded throughout the city, and
crowds gathered to watch for the ap
pearance of the raider.
Merlin reports that all "f (he ground
(he Hermans gained In their latest of
fensive in the viclnin of Xciivillo audi
xouth of the Sominc river, remains in t
their hands despite Mrotig Krench at
tacks, j
I'aris says that In fresii atlucks op. I
posit,, (he Pompicrrc south of the
Sotiime, Hie CiermaiiM were twice re
pulsed, I.IHle fighting lias been going on on
Hie Kussluii front, except near I'sciez
cko on (he link, w liui frond, r, where
repeated attacks by the Russians
.'I'ainst the A list, o-l I tiiiKuriiius are de-
l.ired by Vienna to have been re
pulsed. In the Italkalis the siluallon is Uiet.
There have been the usual bombard
nienlH on the Anslro-Iialian front.
Constant inople asserts that the sit
uation in the Caucasus and Mcsopn-
tamla where the Turks arc battling
I CP(MII l ,', "Mil im- i.iii-r-iniir. .tin,
lirllish, Is' virtually uiichnnged. Near
Kelahle it was asserted that (he Turks
captured 1,000 camels from the lirit
Ish. I'elrograd. on the other hand, re
ports that to the north of I'.r.erum
(ho Russians continue their advance,
taking prisoners and capturing ma
chine guns. The pursuit of the Turks
I south cf Lake I'rumluh conotinues.
llwo-story dwelling, killing a man and
!hls wife, but only slightly injuring
'their four children,
i In cut loan contrast W illi the gen
'eral culm, was the sudden death from
'fright of the Ci-yoar-obl chief of the
(iiilellns telephone office at the nio
jiuciii he learned of the Zeppelin raid.
I Seven members of the l'elillean
'lamily were celebrating (he return of
a zouave on leave. , bomb fell on
the building, destroying it and killing
the entire family, Including tin: zoii
ave. Germany Refuses
to Disavow Sinking
of the Lusitania
I IY MllMNINa JOURNAL aPCCIAt. LBAtlD WIRtl
! London, Jnn, :' (;t:l." a. m.) The
Dally Kxpress Geneva correspondent
qllolis b,, liallkf lllier '.elClllg to the
effect mat Germany's final answer iu
the L'.isiiaula case has I u submitted
to Washington and that "the action
of (lie submarine commander is not
, disapproved und Germany will make
l no further concessions."
-Steaniei Philadelphia Collides
i uriusii bailing vessel
r 1 r-i I I
Off Pn icf nf WnlnQ' No
Ull LUdol 01 VVdICt), INU
Lives Arc Lost,
I
BY MOKNINO JOUnHAL PBCI L LlABtU WIRI) j
Londi Ian. an (6:1! p. in.) Thu
AmerlcHii line steamer Philadelphia:
has been ill collision Willi the Itiillshj
calling shin Hen Lie, twelve miles
south of Coiiarvon bay. Lloyd's re
ports the Philadelphia putting back
lint" the Mersey, the extent
idamuge (o her being unknown.
' Hen ICo was waterlogged but
her
'crew Was rescued.
I', ,il, uie noisliio
ni 1 1 , ,i Head
i ,
'upper structure,
Conarvoli l ay is on I he Welsh
comsI, forming virtually a part of St.
George's channel only a short (lis
Itanoe to the south of the point where
I the channel Joln.i the Irish si a.
HIiKeineiK of (Mticliils.
The Aineiiean line, owners of the
Philadelphia, issued the following of-
'filial slat
'Ing the ci
mciit al Liverpool coiieern-
illisloll lolliglll
j "on Saturday the Philadelphia, pro.
jceeiling on her voyage to New York,
while steaming down St. George's
channel came into collision al Carmar
Itheii bay (off the coast of Wales)
wit h a sailing ship, resulting In t-
'siderable damage lo Hie Philadelphia's
I upper strmture. The Philadelphia
dispatched a boat to tin- assistance of
t in., sailing vessel. Ali. rward, owing
Ito her damaged condition, the captain
ili'i'iip-il to put. back to Liverpool.
I "No injury vvioi sustained by any
! i,iii. on board the Philadelphia and her
i p,.t iKe1Ke
living Ihi
whii are all well, will be
option of being transferred
to Hie Adriatic, .sailing Weilnenbiy.
or f it nceeil IIU nil 111,' I 1 1 1 I.I i i e 1 1 1 1 1 la .1:1
us soon as n pairs arc effected."
A boat containing seven men vvlibii
left the Philadelphia Willi (be objci I
of assist ing the Hell I.e.' lias nol re-
: turned,
L nun
jfnr il.
!nf Hie
fill!.'. Hi
i Th '
rding tn the I '(
,f trawlers ar
also reported i
of the Hen I
ntial News
searching
nc member
ee H llliss-
I.i r
It h
crew
liicrs having ben laudd
leu la e is a (hi 11 -iu;,st"d
I I Ino.s and is nw neil bv .1.
ie A.- Co., Liverpool. Sin
111 IMIj al (ilasgnvv.
ship
and 1
w as '
nf J
,tl. I
I, Hill
(,i iniain- Hold Ml Gain.
Derlin. Jan. 'JO (by Wireless (.1 Sav
villc. 1 --All (he ground gained by the
Germans in their olfeiisive move-1
in, nls near Neville and south of the
Sonime reporti d yeHterday, has been j
11 tallied, il aiqiears from today's ol'fl-j
cial statement by army headquarters.
the French counter-attacks
been repulsed. ,
having
1
AMERlCftN SHIP j
1 BADLY OAMAGED j
I nm i in l nil
t h IU
111 UULLUIUl.
ORDERS GIVEN TO
TL
Ill Oil! VALLEY
Death List From Floods Near
San Diego Placed at About
Sixty, Though More May
Have Perished,
GREAT MORENA DAM
FAILS TO STAND STRAIN
( ,
Mai II1CS aild SailOTS
Arc on
Guard and Stricken District
Is Armed Camp; Sightseers
Turned Back,
IT MORN I NQ JOUKNAI. (rlCIAk LtAtlB lll
San I'iepo, Ciil., Jan. 30 (lly lUdlo
: to S in Kranclm'o. j l-ootlug described
by Hear Admiral William F, Fullam,
i cooiinauding the Pacific reserve floct,
j a "the worst 1 have ever seen," broke
out In the stricken Otay valley today
'while sailors and murines from war
i ships in San lilcgo hay tolled to re
cover the bodies of tint fifty estimated
! victims of the lower Oluy reservoir
flood. At sundown twenty bodies,
some mutilated, had been Ralliored to
' gel her.
New llisxl Al-rlviM. ?
j A new flood poured down the Tin
Jimna river today, standing four feet
;high near Us mouth, which Is at the
j foM of San Diego bay. A telephone
' message from Tecati, said it was t' -i
ported there thai the Morcint dam,
jsixly iiiIIch back In the hills, had burst,
it if rickUs here believing thiit if the, re
i port was current, fifteen billion gal
lons, of water Impounded by the dam
, would (ear a new channel for the river
'across Coronado strand Into the sea,
I ordered residents of Imperial Huaoh,
.a hamlet on the strand three miles
north of the liver, to flco for thflr
lives.
Doalll List AlxilM Sixty.
Iteporls late last nlK lit that the
cloudburst In San Louis Hey and Han
Pasqual valleys probably cost no tuuVn
than ten lives reduced the probable
total death list in this t'cf,iun to 'about
sixty. 1
Cf the twenty-nine bodies recovered
in the (Hay valley only HU have been
Identified, They are:
HHGA, CAItl.GS employe of Uio
Duneri winery."' " " " . j
I 'I'm:, JOHN' JAMtsiiN, rancher.
nrmc, mils, maugauet h., his
Wife.
GALLAOHKI!. WILLIAM GEO.,
pipe walker at lower ulay dam.
MOSi'u, JoSKPIl, employe Donerl
wlnerv.
MiiSTi), UOSA, his daughter.
Ordered to Shoot Under. '
The lower (May valley was an armed
camp today. Marines und sailors from
,'the battleship Oregon and the cruisers.
'Milwaukee inn) South Dukota patroll
ed all aiuiioaciies and penetrated Into
-i... ii ...i.i i. ..... ...i...... i.i. .,...,
3:
f'f ammunition. The marines, under
. ,.,,,..,,. T. Wesleott. Jr.. camp
led in Hin valley. The sailors under
i Knslgn Hamilton o'lliien, of the M II
'waukee, took quitrters 111 the little
! brick school house at Otay City. The
Culled States destroyer Luwrence act
ed n i base ship and a hospital sqiiid
from the Milwaukee operated in coh
lunetion with both forces.
first news of the reported collupda
' fif llir. Mnnini, ilnm cfimn thrniltfli An-
i drew
KrvHsi. city engineer of Corn-
FOUND AT IRK
f ihelnado and chief engineer of what ore
The; known as the Hpreekles Intercuts In
this vlclnlly. Krvust, trying" lo reach
(the Mexican town of Tla Juaua today,
nni a Japaneso running along the
bank of (he Tin Juaiui river,
"Get back," cried (he Japanese !n
broken Kiiglinh, "Tell people lota
water coming."
l'hvast cuuld see a four-fool wave
coming (low n mo river. mc uiriinii
'his auiomobile and tip rend the warn-
elm ,1am couui cause mc uoou.
Dan. lb Hexed Secure.
That the dam should go out was
j generally unsuspected. It stood 2B5
I feet high In a narrow gorge and was
I buill of masonry and concrete boiled
i with iron rods. The lop of the dam
j was twenty-five feel wide and it Was
braced with InoH" I'oelt on the down
I M renin side The rock fill on (ho
: upper side of Hie dam was tier
licked and hand placed. A water
! supply was drawn from the reservoir
behind the dam by the tunnel through
'solid rock und was conducted
I through a lilt It- watershed into a
I creek winch fed (lie lower otay d'ini,
j Hi,, one that first went out. The
neiural channel for (he water, ho'
lever, was down Cottonwood creek In
!to (he iia .laana river. It was sug-
gesleil by some that a cloudburst
', niiul'.t have brought today's flood, but
engineers said not. The sun shone
there ami fair weather was reported
: in 1 In
! mtiiih
bmiind an;, with which colil
ili.in Was possible,
light "mit Turned Hack.
, ...
I I'-eil,
ml nail nls 1 ,1 I'll1 tt back wmilu-
j be .-li.l
I hoped
,d Cor.
I Clival
it-Mcrs and advent ruers who
to get into 1 Kay alley by way
unmlii sliaiid, and mllil.iry and
at'lhoritirs kepi tight grip on
Mtnalinu, The strand is u long
I . nit like a thumb, which forms
snrihiiii wall of San Diego bay
th
I and offered Hie only means of ingress
i Inlo the v alley.
' I'i'ly farm hoiu.es. according to
I'li-a.iis acquaiuied with the valley.
inii.-l have stood ill (he patn ot me
l b. mis. ii was csl incited that from
tour to five nelsons occupied each
; of tbe.-C. ,lll'loll;;ll (hnse llOUSing ori-
; 111 nils held a lar--er iniinber. Many
i t these are believed to have had time
'(,, escape, attlioi.nh il has been im
! possible lo check III unv way against
the known residents of the valley.
The iftliiiaie of fifty dead is consld
, 1 red consei vat Ive.
SU Persons Carried to Sea.
Lieutenant W. W. Hradley. coin-
inunding (In destroyer Hull, reported
today that he had been unable to find
