Hfatorfc.1 ..... .
Ashland Grows While Lithia flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lllhla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
! i
ASHLAND. OREGONMONDAY, JANUARY 31, 191 G
VOL. XL
NUMBER 72
Oregon's Famous Spa"
New Ashland Slogan
After careful consideration of the
matter the springs water commis-
Bion and the publicity department
havA iU.piiifvi tn dm mm ti -l,,,,
iiHPd nn flm aivnriutn.r i-...i..i
f,,, ,k ..f...ii..i , ,.. .Jfnrcasts are displacing t'i- bewhisk-
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
The new slogan has been adopted '
for several reasons One of these ij
due to a desire to get a name that!
is distinctive and original- one that'
has not been or may be used by ai I
other resort.
The old slogan did not apply to
Ashland nnv mnrn fhnn it ni,ri,t n I
0..v !,
ply to other resorts In America of a
similar character, and did not havojfro"i winter habitat- and stalk
the significance that the new one , a')road- Then If lie eei iiU shadow
has. The word "Spa" signifies a j PP. ,jack into the hole for six
place where mineral springs abound. weeks longer- no shadow is in
Those who heard Prof. Anthony evidence, he concludes t stay oik
speak at tho Commerical Club on
Thursday night of last week will re
member he Invariably used this term
in speaking of the watering places
of Europe and of Saratoga Springs
in this country. It tells In one word
just what Ashland is, a springs re
sort, and will convey to the tourist,
the information that we have mineral
springs and that we have a resort!
city. The use of the word "Oregon's" '
is for the purpose of giving Ash-j
land's location in the state, and to
take advantage of the present move-
..v uu,.,,, WltHUIl B ailULLlU'lH
for the tourist. No state in the Union
is doing as much concerted adver
tising as Oregon Is doing at the pres
ent time.
"Letter Writing Week," with I's
thousands upon thousands of per
lllfinr m Dni'ailuA llrm.nn'n .......... I '
sonal letters sent to every part olj
the United States, has done much!
to focalize the attention of the na-i
tlon upon Oregon. Portland is send
ing the wonderful Berger-Jones col-l
lection of lantern slides, made by
the new method of photographing In !
natural colors, to be exhibited in clKM
great cities of the East. They are'
to be shown at the White House, at
the annual convention of tho Chr.m-I
ber of Commerce of the Unite! Statts!
of America, where they wl'l to seen
L It rl , u COUn;:two teams will practice against each'gree of efficiency and had Indeed
PrL! L i" i f J""'"?' ! other frequently from now on in prep- j been reduced to a science. He stat
Princeton, University of Pennsvl. , ...... ' ' L. thal ot 0qpo.0 tho arDat Tetrn
vania, and In many other places.
They will be the means of draw
ing the attention of a niil'ion people
to Oregon, and will Inspire thous
ands of tourists with s desire to
come out here and se) fm- them
selves what we have to she? them.
By linking Ashland wirh the name
of Oregon, In the use of this new
slogan, we will get the bencMt tf
this big campaign of exploitation. Tho
word "Famous" Is used because it is
the honest opinion of too CDrn;iils
eloners and the department that Asli-
Jana is to become renowned as a
health resort or sna. I
Mr. John M. Scott, gmiral Pns- Messenger on February 1. Mr. Pur
eenger agent of the Soutnora Pacific dln hag been in newspaper work in
company, approves of tin change of the vaIley for many yeara and ls an
slogan. In a letter to the department ja around mall( weU Hked every.
he says: I where. The good wishes of the en-
"Your suggestion of ns'r H"' ; tire city go with him to his new un
words 'Oregon's Famous Spa' Is a dertaklng. Mr. Purdin's family will
very good one. The word is used in remain here until spring. The Monta
the old country and to ver good ef- 'gue Messenger is the only publication
iect. i nope you will open a' cam
palgn on the new name at once.
Resorts Pay
Big
Dividends
To the practical man one of the
most pertinent statements' made by
Prof. Anthony, who spoke to the citi-
zens of Ashland last Thursday, was
in regard to success scored elsewhere
in a financial wav bv resorts. He
stated that ln Europe where nun-
dreds of resorts are flourishing,
sometimes a score in the radius of a
few miles nil worn mnklne a finnn -
clal success. In fact, he said he knew
nt hut nno whif-h wno nnt nnvtnir nnii
this one could be taken as the ex-
ception which proved the rule. In
America private interests have ac-
cumlated huge fortunes from the in
dustry. During the year 1915 the Metropol
itan Life Insurance Company distrib
uted through Its agent. H. 0. Pu-
rucker, 3,965 welfare booklets in the The Unlted states forestry service
city of Ashland, this being a part of w,n make a Preliminary survey for ft
this great company's welfare iwork. j road through the Shasta national for
Of these, 200 were used by the public est reserve up Mount Shasta from SIs
schools as Instruction books anoV800 8on to Horse Camp next spring. The
by the local dentists and physicians. ! road UP the mountain will open the
"Fake Consumption CuresJ .VFlrst , Snasta forest to tourists and also
Aid In the Home," "The :2h.Hdf
"Teeth, Tonsils and Adenoids," "All
About Milk," are the titlee.f ebnie
of these books, . uwir.rtDj ss
Deep Problem May
Perplex Ground Hog
Many of the old supersJu nt aiv
obliterated by the undeviatin and
restible march of scienie. Many of
1 the old adages are forgo t-n. I lie
rnlted states goveruniTi wcniuer
1 . . i . . ,i. ..
ered propnets wno were u;o prou:
possession of every community in
da'8 6ne by.
0ne ,,ell(!f remains, as firmly en-
"conced in the hearts of all bat the
moBt Practical as the be'ief in Panta
Claus ls In 11)9 hearts of the child -
ren- And tnat 18 ground ho? day.
On Wednesday, February old
.... ,
mfelor Pfnlinrt hni is flue tit lniei io
.......... D.W.. "Vf, W - ...... QW
and take a chance on prospective
weather.
If the ground bog ap'i.'ir, abed
sunrise on Wednesday he will sic a
shadow on the sun, th'j firs: time
in many scores of yeirs that an ' consulting engineer for tho new
eclipse has oeeured on ground bog y incorporated Panipadour Mineral
day. It is problematical wiiat hj g,, rings company which will develop
wl" do ln case he no,lces tlie epIi'
Wnat would you do .were you ;
ground hog?
fjjl, CrTlftnl Boot C
tilgU JII1091 DCdLS
Militia 33-26
The Ashland high school won the
city championship by defeating the
. Coast Artillery Corps team In what
was easily the fastest and most Inter
esting game of basketball yet played
on the armory floor. The C. A. C.
boys showed some of the effects of
; their recent defeat at Central Point,
several of them nursing sprains and
bruises. However, they seemed to
have the school boys outconditioned
and to be faster, but could not locate
the basket as well. The feature of
the high school team's play was the
defensive work of Delsman and the
brilliant offensive work of Grlsez.
The final score was 33 to 26. The
aration for coining games with out -
'side teams. The lineup and points
scored were as follows: High school,
Fraley 9, Grlsez 16, Harris 2, Ply
mate 6, Delsman; C. A. C., M. Grubb
S. Rrown 8. Freeman 2. L. Grubb 8.
O'Donohue.
Local Newspaperman
Goes to New Field
Lynn Purdin, who for the past five
years has been foreman at the Ash-
i iana necora. iant over me aioniaKue
in the city of Montague, Cal., which
is the center of a prosperous farming
community.
Pioneer Builder
Passes Away
Baldwin Beach, pioneer Ashland
resident, passed away at aDout :iu
Saturday evening at his Gresham
street residence. He was 78 years of
ae - He was a member of the local
G - A- R- Post- beinS a Civil War vet-
eran - Funeral services will be held
rom the residence at 41 Gresham
street Tuesday at 2 p. m. G. A. R.
and Christian Science services. A
full obituary will be published Thurs-
day.
Will Build Road
Up Mount Shasta
iraM ascent or me mountain easier
i Born to Mrand.Mra. Lee Ci Por
ten, tt nine-pound boy, Sunday.
Prof. Anthony Proclaims Ashland's
Lithia Equal to World's Best
"You have In Ashland a mineral their ga3 and properties If kept under
water (the lithia) which Is equal in the prop r pressure,
every way to those of Saratoga and That ti e liihla water here can and
I Mw, P hn iI'M!ll
,."- iiiikb ui "
and is in a great many ways super -
1 .. - ,-....1..,- r ... Tlnf AntlmTi.r
i.uhuhk uum nui. nijiiui ..u.u uj ic ..cmi.
1 chier engineer of the great Saratoga , lie explained the reasons for the
I mineral springs reservation, the clouded appearance and sediment
j greatest in the East, this statement j which fo- ins in an Improperly bottled
! was received with uproarious ap-1 mineral .rater. This question, which
' plause by the crowd which Jammed , has worried some of the local people,
1 the Commercial Club assembly room J was dispelled with the assurance that
I last Thursday evening to hear Prof, j the Saratoga waters assumed - the
Anthony. His talk was a revelation same apr larance unless properly "ban-
, ... j ,,. .!,
: lO UIU ciuseiis liienuui. mm micubiu-
cned tne spirit or commence in
I T....1'a .fnliti-a au a trrpnt minprnl
land's f uture
water resort.
Mr. Anthony Is enthusiastic over that Ashland should find an unllmlt- ,' "' a young southern surgeon out- j vlduals are shirking their responsf
the waters here and especially the ' ed market for the gas on tho coast j wit the antipathy of the hitter's fath- bilities to their fellow mm, that petty
lithia, which he finds to contain : and that Saratoga did not has a suf-. P1" to-tho girl's "northern accent," j thievery Is pracllscd and graft de
properties he says are bound to make ficient supply to fill tho demand. j"1"' ''' a clever ruse actually line him ( nounced by the thh vers, that a grow-
Ashland famous.
President V. 0.
Smith Intro -
duced Mr. Anthony, who
is here as
the Silver-Haiiey Lithia spring and
other springs in the neighborhood.
The speaker first described the
agreeable sensations which ho had
experienced upon his arrival from
the trip across the continent and then
launched into a brief description of
the great resorts of the Old World
and the history of watering resorts.
"The first known bathing resort was
in England and was visited by the
Saxons of England 800 years B. C",
said Mr. Anthony, "and at present
throughout continental Europe great
resorts which are making big divi
dends are established at intervals of
a few miles in the mineral water dis-
tricts."
While proclaiming himself to be
neutral, Mr. Anthony stated that his
descriptions of the resorts of the old
world would be confined mainly to
those of Germany because it was in
Germany that the application of min
eral waters for medicinal purposes
had been brought to the highest de-
ed that at Saratoga the great returns
from the waters were found to be In
! their medicinal application, and that
i it was toward this end that the Amer -
j ican resorts must aim. Mr. Anthony
referred to the resorts as "spas," this
being the name which has become the
accepted usage throughout Europe.
He told of the systems at the German
spas and said that each resort main
tained tthelr own architect, chemist
and engineer and were constantly
studying and experimenting to fur
ther perfect the science.
He gave a brief history of the de
velopment at Saratoga, telling how
huge fortunes were amassed by pri
vate interests and the waters wasted
until the level of the mineral water
in the basin of the valley, which is
about seven miles long by four wide,
was lowered. In the beginning the
water level was above the ground In
places, but it was pumped out and
wasted until it became necessary to
sink wells 300 feet to find water.
Then the state condemned the Sara
toga region and made It a state reser
vation, aud under proper conserva
tion the water is now back at its old
level and has been so studied and
developed that some springs spurt
high into the air. He stated that a
million and a half had already been
spent at Saratoga, that the people of
the state had the greatest confidence
In the further development, and that
providing the powers that reign in
Tammany Hall agreed, six million
more would be spent.
The faking of mineral waters was
dealt with, and he told of the meth
ods by which unscrupulous promoters
secretly injected mineral salts into
common water and pumped them into
springs. Practices of this sort be
came so common that now at Sara
toga in order to allay the suspicion
of fraud, all the workings of the
pumps were glass encased so that the
water could be followed through the
apparatus.
Mr. Anthony then explained several
properties of mineral water and told
of the Saratoga pumping plants, the
system there being practically the
same as here, with the exception that
some of the automatic apparatus here
fs new, He conducted a very Inter
esting experiment with apparatus
which he had with him to show how
the gas is held ln solution as car
bonic acid ln the water and ls re
leased by -having pressure removed.
He states that mineral waters may be
pumped any distance, retaining all of
I iirl la
ottljd and kopt clear and
, that it b lest kept clear in the hot
, n ,i'ia tlmilst n nln l.ir , I, n ir k'ltnl'
' J!J
uicu
He then turned to the commercial
use of the gas which Is found In' un -
limited quantities here, and stated
Tho application of the lithia water.
'in baths was next taken up, and he
waxed enthusiastic over tho Ashland
water, fating that It was even su -
nerlor lh manv wavs to th Snrntnirn
waters. ' "T!:e immense value of the
waters is not for drinking purposes,
but for ibath uses, when properlv ap -
Plied uadrr the direction of coinpe -
tent physicians who have mastered
tho scletce of hvdrotheraiiv." stated
the spea'er, "and I have found reas -
ons to believe that here at Ashland
you have the most valuable water for i
that pui- Jose in America If not in the
world." '
The Saratoga man then explained
the use "of a delicate Instrument for
ascertaining the presence of radio-j
activity ,n waters, and stated that he
had fouid this element In the waters
to an e:.tent which had amazed him
and almmt frightened him. The ex
act extent of the radio-activity he had
not as yet determined, but from his
experience at Saratoga and elsewhero
he was vositive that the Ashland wa-
ters contain more radio-activity than .here will be only partial, about one
any in nierica and rival if not ex- fourth of the sun being obscured as
ceed tbL waters of Bath, England, the eclipse starts a few minutes bc
which hive no other claim to fame , fore sunrise. The lower part of the
than tbt of being the most radio-! Bun disc will be obecured, the obscur
actlve in the world. Further expert- atlon passing obliquely downward
ments win nring tnis phase of the,
w"c ".,, -
ments already made have proven the
water to be wonderful in this respect
. 88 well as others, and Is of paramount
import to Ashland's future. Just
what radio-activity Is and Its uses In
treating heart trouble and other dis
eases through baths is too lengthy
a subject to discuss in this article.
Suffice it to say that Mr. Anthony
regarded this phase the most impor
tant of all.
From the scientific side Mr. An
thonk turned to the financial side of
the mineral waters, and told of the
huge fortunes which had been
amassed. He told of the crowds
which visited Saratoga, that resort's
summer average approaching 20,000
persons a day, and ln three hours on
one day a crowd of 15,000 visiting
the main water palace. He remarked
that there was no great spa west of
the Rockies and that Ashland had a
wonderful opportunity. He told of
Hargate, Europe, where the springs
are municipally controlled and where
tho people pay no taxes, the Income
from the waters and baths paying big
dividends to the people. "At Har
gate the water is stored in tanks in
the winter because of an insufficient
supply. Here at Ashalnd with the
abundance what could not be accom
plished?" He emphasized the fact the psy
chological effect must be attained,
and compared the resort problem
with Coney Island crowds. The peo
ple come for pleasure, catch the spirit
and believe that the. waters will cure,
which is half the battle In any medi
cine. He also emphasized the fact
that the big returns are made from
baths and not from sale of drinking
waters.
Mr. Anthony then asked that any
one who wished to ask questions do
so, and for fifteen minutes was busy
answering the queries of Interested
spectators.
One question was asked regarding
the efficiency of the sulphur water, I
Mr. Anthony stating that he had had
little experience with this water, and
believed that a great deal of its ef
fectiveness in the treatment of
rheumatism Came from proper appli
cation of heat and cold, but that he
was not prepared to go into an au
thoritative discussion of it. Dr. Jar
vis asked several pertinent questions
and discussed several matters mainly
relating to radlo-actlvlty with the
New Torker, and showed that .he .U
making a thorough study, of the me-
Five-Reel Comedy
At Vining Tuesday
Twas Ever Thus," with the!
charmlnt! Elsie Janls as the star of liberty, that of ISfil for humanity,
a brilliant Bosworth Incorporated nl H't of 19 If. for Kraft and greed,
production, Ik the attraction at the ,mt ,llat ,,u' f nt uro would stand for
Vining Theatre for Tuesday night.'"1"10 (lf those, was the substance of
February 1. No matter what airs
n...l .i-li.tf ........... ....... ....... 1 ...1.
. uu muL m. 13 nu n nm uuvb laii'-n
on siuco the world began, they make
love Just the same today as when
they lived In caves and wore the skins
of wild animals upon their shoulders.
" 'Twas Ever Thus" shows the grim,
f unusual love affair of a prehistoric
pair who dispose of a pursuing, irate
; father by means of the bludgeon at
the mouth of the nuptial cave In the1
: ,,lll k of a tribal fight. In vivid con-
i trist comes an appealing story of
Civil War times when a Iloston beau -
i,s l"t Kl" 8 ""m'fi cnnmpion.
'"'Hy. ' t'"1 niost dramatic episode
T ,ove aKam 1'rpvciis in a stir-
iril,f! "'"-'e-porn.-red affair between a
I wealthy publisher, his gay young
clubman son and Marian Cordon, a
' yo""1! New Yo, k writer- wll- wllPn
il,P1" noV('1 '"ejected, enters the
j W(a,llly 1'ouse as a do-;
, mos,i(' to rxlerience," with some I
i ,-v '""lesmiK semmiemai results,
very Interesting sentimental results.
! r"MK 'li""H IH hi'"''"u us l"e "'ro.ne
of n" tnreo e",l80,lpfi-
The picture is in five reels. With
It will be shown the Paramount week
ly, current events from all over tho
world.
Eclipse of Sun
Visible Wednesday
For the first time In many years
an eclipse of the sun will be visible
In Ashland on the morning of Febru
ary 3. 1916. The eclinse as Been from
from right to left. The sun will rise
jtt i::a pn vt eunesoay aim win ne, Lnck of respect for God was thn
half way through the eclipse when It f inrnhator In which all these modern
rises. Lvi. lntri-,-i. n.M tl, nvnr .n.l
Everyone wishing to see the eclipse
should provide themselves with
piece of smoked glass or dark glasses,
and should set the "Big Ben" for a
little after 7 o'clock.
Roseburg High'
Brings Fast Team
But four teams in the state are ac
corded chances of winning the state
basketball championship. These are
Ashland, Roseburg, Medford and
Salem. Ashland's first chance at the
other contenders comes Wednesday
and Saturday evenings of this week
when the local high school team
meets Roseburg at the local high
school gymnasium. Roseburg has
won every game played this year ex
cept one to Salem on the Salem floor,
which was lost by three points. Rose
burg has defeated such teams as Eu
gene, Corvallis, O. A. C. freshmen,
Albany and several others. Basket
ball critics of the state proclaim the
present Roseburg team to he the fast
est In tho state. Come out Wednes
day and Saturday evenings nnd help
pull through a victory for the locals.
Roseburg plays Medford Thursday
and Friday. On Wednesday night
the Phoenix and Ashland girls will
play a preliminary. On Saturday the
Phoenix boys play tho Ashland sec
ond team. Seats at Rose's.
Jackson Woman
Out for Treasurer
Mrs. Myrtle W. Blakely of Jackson
ville has announced her candidacy for
the office of county treasurer, Mrs.
Blakely Is the present deputy treas-
urer and for two years served as dep
uty recorded of the county.
dicinal properties of the waters.
Mr. Anthony has the thanks of
every man present for a most en
lightening and enjoyable talk. The
greatest difficulty which has been
met with ln Ashland's development
has been the lack of general under
standing of the possibilities and great
value of-tbe mineral waters, and Mr.
Anthony's talk was greatly apprecia-
ted. . .-. a -, j.h.M ts.i
Judge Alden Has
Vivid Message
"'at t ho spirit or li.G stood for
a led ure delivered at the Methodist
I'l llll'fl I' 1111:1. I M IIV I "it . . n 1
.r,.-.
famous lecturer, humorist and jurist,
Is" Ail,!n "peke for two hours and
, no "no person or the lame audlenco
! lIi'L'd. 1,ut rather hoped for
, "101".
', "The Needs of the Hour" was tho
' topic, but the speaker covered a widn
j range of territory. With keen barbs
of humor he opined the way to tho
hearts cf the audience, and ' then
drove home the steel of his argument,
' the burden of which was that indl-
lug indifference toward religion Is at
the base of all cvi's, social and politi
cal. lie told why the g rafter Is here,
and plainly said that tho man who
would client in the m all deals of llfo
was the foundation upon which thu
greater graft was bused. He declared
that back of all thliiiaterialisin, thin
worship of the golden calf, was tho
difference toward the teachings of
, Christ, and said that history shows
that every nation In the past that
turned from (!od to gold has gono
down to Ignominious defeat.
He shqwed the Inconsistency of the)
man who sits by the stove In tho cor
ner grocery and wails and howls!
about tho grafters In the state and
nation and then goes home and mixes
the product of the cow with the prod
uct of the pump, nnd still thinks hn
Is honest. He declared men should
cease to cast critical eyes on the hor
izon for the sins of others, but should
turn the eye Inwardly, for the reform
ation of the state and nation be'glnn
with the individual.
And as it was thus In commercial
and political life, so it is in .domestic
and religions life, he averred. It wan
his opinion that lack of self-respect
was the cause of the moral turpi! udo
of grafter nnd grafted.
the remedy he believed to be a return
to a keener appreciation of religion an
taught by ChrlBt.
Want Five Thousand
For Celebration
That is the figure that the commit
tee In charge of the springs dedica
tion and Fourth of July celebration
is going .to raise. In a tweuty-four
hour campaign this amount Is to be
subscribed, and a great many citizens
will be asked to assist to make a
complete house to house canvass.
This will probably take place the end
of this week, and the residents are
requested to think over the matter of
their subscription so that there be no
delay in allowing the men, who aro
giving their time to make this a suc
cess, to complete their work in as
short a time as possible.
The original figure at which tho
financial committee had hoped for
die attendance at the celebration waa
placed at twenty thousand, but Mayor
Johnson, who has accepted the chair
manship of the committee on inform
ation and accommodation, states taht
no less than forty thousand will bo
here if we put on the proper show.
This means that every hotel and
rooming house will be filled to capac
ity, that every available room in tha
private homes will be taken, and that
we will have to depend upon the ho
tels in Medford to take care of the
overflow. Every family in Ashland
who has rooms that they can rent at
that time will have no difficulty iu
filling them, and it will be due to the
committee's efforts that this condi
tion will be brought about. They
therefore feel that it ls everybody's
business, and to the city of Ashland's
Interest, that liberal subscriptions be
made toward the expense fund of
running this celebration.
The blanks upon which the sub- .
scrlptions will be asked for will be
for a cash donation, payable Immedi
ately, or payable In Installments, one-
half on April 20 and the other, half
on June 20. E. V. Carter has con
sented to act as treasurer and sub
scriptions are made payable to htm. -
Tidings "For Bale"; ads are active.. "
ItMl. ...I 1
