;j. TJre-wjiATiiin;
'Mnrfrm rlonfljr nnd tolder. !
THE LEDQPJl J Rn fldmUsfn
. ! medium that brings rninlt. Onr rfr
4 rate ro consistent with clrcn
1 Ifltlnn. Hooks open to Inspection.
J J J J J J J j j j j. j j4 ,j.
I j j j j j j j j j j
wrrzr jtnrvniiOAX-iMi.
PAiirr vn lio xhdokb-im.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1910.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
.
'Sv-
ft?
V.
.1. 0. V. A. M. TAKKH IN CLASS OF
i KIOIIT. 1
a HAKKirs noziix.
TIi cm iih mints must choose.
Tlicm nit linn, must lose.
Them ns known, won't Mali.
'J'lirm ns piirsscs, will gab.
Tlicm iih borrows, Borrows.
Tlicm ns lends spends
Them iih Khes Htes.
Them ns keeps ilnrk, Is deep.
Tlicm ns rnn rnrn, ran keep.
Tlicm ns ntms, litis.
Tlicm ns Ims, irlts.
Tliem Hint wnlts, win.
Tlicm ns will, kin.
Answers.
IlISTOUIC l'lKCK OF JEWKMtY.
Limestone todgo No. 256, Junior
Order United American Jtcchanlcs, of
this city, took n c1nksT)f eight can
dldntcs Into their order Saturdny
night. Tho degreo team from Oar
flold Lodge, ncllovuo, composed of
soventecn men, came up nnd put on
tho work In first-class order. Among
thoso present wcro State Counselor
Liggett nnd State Treasurer Qcrhnrdt.
This order has been reorganized hero
.only recently nnd Is growing rnpldly.
Miss Isabella Key has returned to
Oxford, 0., after a several days' visit
with her pnrcnts, Circuit Clerk nnd
Mrs. James D. Key of Walnut street.
Mr. C. S. Spencer of Flemlngsburg,
was here Saturday.
Mr. l J. Murphy, tho West Sec
ond street jeweler, lins on display In
his west window a very beautiful nnd
historic piece of Jewelry, u white lavn
brncclet-necklaco combination be
longing to Mr. A. Q. Sulser. Tho
necklace has been In the Sulser fam
ily for nearly 100 years, having been
mndo from white Inva from Mt. Ves
uvius, which fell on the deck of a
ship a relative of Mr. Sulser was on.
The lava was collected nnd n master
artist of Venice enrved busts of fa
mous historic characters on It nnd
constructed the piece.
I N'TK NESTING .HEKTINfl.
GREATLY ENCOURAGED
I.- Judge G. S. Mali (her the Pros,
port of Obtaining ltellcf In the
Chnrltnblc Institutions,
of the State.
There will bo a meeting of tho
Parent-Teacher Association of the
First District school Tuesday after
noon at 3 o'clock. Rev. A. P. Stahl
will address the association and spe
cial music by the children has been
arranged as a feature of the program.
Matters of vital Importance to every
parent will be discussed at this meet
ing. W'c urgo every parent to bo pres
ent. MAIL OKIlEltS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today, Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Having decided to move our plumb
ing business to rooms on west sido
St. Charles Hotel building, will sacri
fice prices on Gas and Coal Ranges.
J3t-3t OKO. H. TRAXEL.
The Ladles' Aid Society of tho
Third Street M. E. church will meet
Wednesday afternoon with Mrs, Stall
cup on Forest avenue.
Garrett S. Wall of the Stato Doard
of Control, was encouraged In his ef
forts to obtain relief from ovor-
' crowded conditions In somo of the
State hospitals, by the action of tho
Senate In authorizing the Commit
tees on Appropriations and Charitable
Institutions to visit tho Central and
Eastern hospitals nnd Institute for
Feeble Minded.
Judge Wall snld the Jetfcrson coun
ty grand Jury has condemned tho old
kitchen and sewage disposal plant at
the Central hospital as unsaultnry-and
Inadequate; the Frnnklln county
grand jury has called attention to the
conditions at' the Institute for Feeble
t Minded and tho necessity of better
( water service, 'hospital facilities and
jflro escapes. Fayette county grand
Juries have repeatedly condemned the
unrds for colored patients at the
Eastern hospital.
The present grand jury, he said,
threatened to Indict some of tho of
ficers for receiving patients In excess
of the capacity of that hospital. It
no relief Is granted by this General
Assembly, ho said, three years will
elapse before there can' be any rem
edy, as It will tnko a year after the
assembly of 1918 to erect now build
ings or repair the old ones. In the
meantime Insane persons and Idiots
adjudged hereafter will have to re
main In jail.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this,
our fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
which we are very thankful.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
have installed the latest and most improved eppment for handling your orders, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY "WBBb?"
a. a. Mclaughlin.
L. N. BE II AX.
IHalllHHHHHHIHMMHHHHHMH
HOBBIES
iV A nvnminnnf nlivuininii folia no flint tinltltinc " nvn linnliliv 9H
I things for us to h'nve, nnd wt fi-cl t lint we must be blessed with
unusually Rood henlth, ns we liiivo A1AVAYS had n hobbj'
nnd it's
5 HARNESS!
m '
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
H our bonst wns that we made the best harness that could lto
JJ made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
j nnd fifty cents a pound, wo still maintain that we have thu
hist harness that can be made. All you have to do to prove
2 that we are telling you facts is to go to the next "sale," nnd
hear Col. Nensloy Hawhins say in that musical drawl for which
2 he is so famous, "This is n set, gentlemen, of Mike Brown's
j Uanii;ss.. What, do you hid?" Then's when you can see the
H fanner "set up and take notice," for he knows there will he
sonic bidding on that Harness.
TIi is is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every fanner's mind, and this is tho time of the year, ulso,
when we are ready to sell him. All winter long our men have
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now wo are
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grandfather
used to buy it, hut, considering the price of leather, it's a
wonder how low in price and high in quality tho Sipmro Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, we are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE OEM MAH"
TOUGHJUCK
Three Thirsty Imlhldnnh (lot As Far
l IT . 1. T I.. 1 II' 1 1 I. M 111 n
AS DIM1III JU1IICJ HUM II I'UUU
i:nch, Hut Itetiirnc.l A Villi .
Only n Look. (
Saturday afternoon the usual num-
bcr of citizens lett'hero for Illploy to,
got tholr supply of wot goods with j
which to whllo away tho Icllo hours
of Sunday. !
Among tho number wore thrco who
had n limited supply of coin Just
enough to put them In Itlpley with
out tho prlco of a drink.
Not thinking of the Ohio river Do
ing between them and tho coveted
"goods," they nrrlved nt South Wp-
loy with 10 cents each 30 cents In
tho crowd.
The other clghty-nlno of the crowd
had nlrcady gotten safely onto the
ferryboat before the thrco thought of
their hard luck.
What was tho use of spending their
dime for pnssago across the river If
they head nothing with which they
could quench their thirst upon arrival
there?
And what wns there In Illploy be
sides the "sousing goods" thnt would
tempt them for a social visit?
The crowd went, filled up Inside
and outside, camo back and found tho
three sitting nt tho depot almost
drowned In their own slobbers so thir
sty were they for something besides
water.
Hut the other fellows only had bare
ly enough to tide them over, and tho
three got on tho train, took one long
look at the disappearing lights of
Ripley and exclaimed with an air of
satisfaction:
Well, wo saw where It wns to ho
had, anyhow."
T011ACC0 Sl'l'EKVISOIt'S KUPOltT.
Sales on the Maysvlllo tobacco mar
ket last week totaled 2,120,710 pounds
at prices ranging from $3 to $75, with
a total average of $11.12. Offerings
were largely of medium nnd low
grades, with but a limited quantity of
fancy offerings. While thcro was
some good averages on crop lots, any
thing clean sold at full prices. Sales
were very fast ami bidding spirited at
VX L'!i!Pl' e 'co' B,lro t'lero 's n
short crop and nil buyers are eager to
take nil that is offered nt full prices.
Rejections, not large.
W. MITCHELL, Supervisor.
DEATH OV JIHS. KEITH (iltEE.V
COKXELISOX.
Word was received Monday morn
ing of the sudden death of Mrs. Keith
Green Cornellson at Danville, Ky., on
last Friday. She will bo remembered
as tho daughter of the late Col. Thorn
as Marshall Green. She was burled
ut Danvllio Sunday afternoon.
Sho has ngrcat many relatives nnd
friends hero who will be distressed
to hear of her death.
EXTEUTAIXS IX HOXOH OF 1IUII1E
AMI 0HO0AI.
Mr. nnd Mrs. It. K. Hoofllch enter
taincd with a reception Saturday
night in honor of son and his bride,
Mr. and Mrs. It. N. Hootllch, at their
beautiful home on East Sccond'strcet.
The house was tastefully decorated to
suit tho occasion, nnd thoso who
attended certainly felt repaid by tho
kind hospitality of tho host und
hostess.
NEW rOOLUOOM.
Mr. Charles Bland within a fow
days will open a pool and billiard par
lor In tho building formerly occupied
by him ns a saloon. Mr. lllnnd has
secured now furnishings and hopes to
receive a sharo of natronago of tho
devotees of this sport. Market street
Is slowly resuming tho appearanco of
n business street.
JOHN KUSSELL flANTLEY UETTEK
- EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
THY ONE PACKAGE. IT 80LYE8 THE JIHEAKFAST TKOBLEM.
QKJ8EL (JONAB PJwim 43.
Tbo condition of John Ilusscll, tho
15-year-old son of Councilman nnd
Mrs. rat Gantlcy of East Third street,
who Injured his heart while at play a
tew days ago nnd later contracted
pneumonia, Is somowlmt Improved.
Mrs. It. C. Nash and Miss Claudlne
Nash of East Second street, and cou
sin, MIbb Margaret Hoyd, of Cottago-
vlllo, returned homo Sunday night
from an oxtended visit to relatives
and friends In Chicago.
Our price this week for buttcrfat,
31 cents Maysvlllo. Iirlng It in any
day, any time of tho day, and receive
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CIIEAMEHY.
Mrs, I. M. Lane of East Second
street, was operated upon Sunday
Her friends will be glad to know that
she rallied nicely from tho effects of
tho operation.
Tho Daughters of tho Confederacy
will meet with Mrs. Dan Porrluo on
West Fourth street at 2 o'olock Tues
day afternoon. All mombors urged to
be present.
A verdict of $8,000 damages against
tho .'hrsnpeako & Ohio In tho Oreonup
Circuit Court In tho suit of F. II
Cooper, a switchman, for damages for
tho loss of n log In tho Hussoll yards
was affirmed by tho Courtof Appeals
in nn opinion hy Jmlgo Carroll.
Twin bills giving tho Stato Itnllrond
Commission control over telephone,
telegraph, express nnd steninbont com
panies woro Introduced In tho House
and Sonato nt Frankfort. Governor
Stnnloy bns given his approval to tho
monsurps.
Trumbo Sncdegnr of Hath county,
has announced himself ns n candidate
for Congress, subject to tho action of
tho Republican party. Mr. Trumbo ts
a well known Republican.
The ChlncBO postoflico now handles
yenrly moro than 4,000,000 pnrccls,
weighing 30,000,000 pounds.
"A GIRL TO ORDER"
X
llclliflitfiil College Life Fnrre Given
III High School Athletic
Association.
"A Girl to Order," a rollicking. col
logo farce In one net, wns pleasingly
presented by members of the ilayB
vllln High School Athletic Association
nt tho High School nudltorlum Satur
day night beforo an audience which
enjoyed tho short entertainment Im
mensely. Tho troubles of nn undorgrudunto
who hns been having too good a tlmo
"seeing life" wcro shown convlnvlngly
by Jnmes January ns Dudley Elliott,
who hnd an agreement with his col
lego friends, l'uck, UIb nnd l.ady, to
fool his father, Mr. Elliott, which part
was well portrayed by Charles Brown
ing. Tho father demanded nn explan
ation for IiIh son's extravagance and
tho attempts by the son led to com
plication after complication, which are
finally adjusted by the timely arrlvnl
of Margaret Smith, the real girl In tho
case.
A feature of tho evening was music
by the High School Orchestra. After
the play the floor was ckn
several hours of dancing were enjoyed
A neat sum was realized and will
be used to send the basketball team,
which has done such splendid work
this season, to tho Stato School .'Bas
ketball Touraninent at Danville, on
March 3. 4, nnd 5.
.MISS CA1IPUNTEK EXTEUTAINS.
! Miss Iva Carpenter entertained
ninny guests Saturdny evening nt tho
homo of her sister, Mrs. Oral Jnmes,
nenr Washington, with a delightful
party. After tho guests were tired of
dancing ami playing gnmes they woro
escorted to n beautifully decorated
dining roomT where delicious refresh
ments were served. Tho Invited lady
guests wcro Bcrtlo nnd Illancho An
derson, Lllllo Antic, Margaret nnd
Boss Ilerlln, Mnrlo nnd Lolsetto Brodt,
Knthryn nnd Mngglo Byron. Knthryn
nnd Ella Bramble, Rosa Carpenter,
Laura Crosby, Elizabeth Downing, Eu
nice Oantloy, Anna Holiday, Lorlno
Helvoy, Alberta Kubol, Roslyn and
Mlttlo Kyle, Mnbol nnd Florence
Gnlthor, Ethel Roe, Mildred Leo, Lov
oll Seddcn, Graco Wnlllngford, Edna
Stevens, Ada nnd Esther Rubenacker,
Dewey Rico and Miss Allman. Messrs.
Ollto Antic, Andrew Byron, Arthur nnd
Ned Berry, Dlmmltt Coryell, Reed nnd
Will Downing, l'enn Doyle, Hussoll,
Clnrenco nnd Robert Elisor, Edward
Seddon, O. U Tolle, Jr., Aco nnd
Harry Wnlllngford, Win Hord, Lloyd
Turnlpsccd, Win Parker, John Robert
Tolle, Emerson Zelgler, La Ruo Tug
glc, Richard Galthcr, Stephen Owens,
Morris Pollltt, Norrla Rubenacker,
Ernest Thompson, Richard nnd Madi
son Lindsay anr Irvcn Carpenter.
Blue
Grass Creamery Butter
E Per Pound 35 Cents ,n Ions
Made in Maysville and We Get It Fresh Every Day,
It Surc Is Good.
5 MMtitfU UDAQ 107 West Second Street.
1lilULJLl UUUO., Phone 20.
Ct.
Ml
Rev. Wllllnm Jones of Ludlow, wns FOR SALE-Household furniture
a visitor In tho city Sunday. Ernie Ort, 30 Enst Third street. 3i
M
m
3
g LOOK HERE!
2 Why Go to the Trouble and Kxpcnsc of Ordering From a City S
When We Have a Complete Line of
Trusses, Crutches t Abdominal Supports
5 At a Reasonable Price. See Us. 5
S M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY g
Mr. Charles Ford of Fleming coun
ty, wns a visitor hero Sunday.
Mr. Jacob Posncr Is a business vis
itor in Cincinnati.
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLDTHES
TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO MOST MEN WENT TO A CUSTOM BOOT MAKER FOR
THEIR SHOES, BUT HOW MANY GO TODAY?
The shoe stores multiplied astoundingly because they sell more shoo fit, comfort and vahw
than the custom boot maker. Tlu ready-for-usi makers have studied and classified every foot
untft they can fit it exactly. It is simply n matter of a courteous clerk measuring your foot
to find the right standard, size ami shape; then you have shoo satisfaction.
THAT IS TRUE OF CLOTHING ALSO. IN "HEOHINGER" CLOTHES YOU CAN GET
THE EXACT FIT YOU CRAVE WHETHER YOU ARE STOUT OR SLIM, TALL OR SHORT.
A very slight adjustment is probably all you need this is possible because Ave have con
centrated fifty-five years of close study on the assembling of clothes thnt do fit. The values,
the fabrics and tho workmanship are high in keeping.
Make it a point to come in and let us prove it to you.
JD. HEGHING-ER &. CO.
PRACTICAL UNDERWEAR
Practical in the dependable quality of fabrics, in the cut that assures comfort without sacrifice of correct lines, in the care
ful sewing and in the moderate prices. No wonder women are unbounded in their enthusiasm over the unapproachable val
ues in this sale.
Tlie details of each garment are planned for satisfactory wear no buttonholes ready to ravel or raw edges ready to tear.
Measurements out for a trim but easy fit which means plenty ot freedom at neck and shoulders with tailored precision at
waist and hips. And prices are all within the scope of women who want plenty of undermuslins without a great expenditure
of money.
Gowns for women. Batiste, longcloth or nainsook,
50c to $2.
Gowns for Women. Crepe, 50c, $1, $1.25.
Gowns for Children 25c, 39c, 50c.
Drawers for Children 10c, 15c, 19c, 25c.
Drawers for Children, Longcloth Bloomers, 25c.
. Drawers for Women, 25c, 50c.
Great Reductions in Ready-Wear Garments
Women's $122 Coats $82.
Women's $25 Suits $12. And $20 Suits for $10. Excellent quality black Suits $5.
Furs, Children's Coats, Sweaters, Knit Shawls and Storm Veils, all at HALF PRICE.
1B52
Petticoats for Women, 50c to $3.
Petticoats for Children 15c to 50c.
Princess Slips for Women 75c, $1, $1.25, $1.50.
Princess Slips for Children, G to 14 years, 50c, 75c.
Combination Corset Cover and Drawer 59c.
Envelop Chemise 50c, $1.
Corset Covers 25c to $1.
WANTED.
Second-hand desH and cabinet.
Ledger Publishing Company.
Sea
.Mr. Henry Ilrubaker of East Third
street, Is visiting his parents at
N'orth Vernon, O.
Colonel "Jako" Thomas came up
from Newport Sunday nnd spent tho
day with his lunilly hero.
Prof. James Throlkcid has returned
to his homo at Carlisle after a visit
with relatives hero.
jThe After-Inventoring Sale
continues all week. We add attractions each day.
J All our Ladies' Wash Waists and some silk ones that are in the
big case are now 75c, worth up to $2.50.
S Choice of all Silk, Net and Chiffon Waists at thirty-three and
one-third per cent, discount.
one-tmra per cent, discount.
If your soles need repairing better see "Jones, the Shoe Hospital
Man."
i
