THE BARRE- DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 271.
DAK HE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
((let, who adds that a cIiihU is possible at !.
any time. A number of British war
ships and German submarine have been
observed just outside territorial waters.
A steamer, arriving from hngland
Saturday, continues the correspondent,
I was stopped by a British cruiser who
fired a ahot across her bow. The steam
er was inspected and pussed. The Swed
ish steamer, hdith, from Lubeck, wlncli
has arrived at Stavaganer, saw a large
number of British destroyers, but was
not detained.
On (Saturday another Swedish steamer
was pursued bv a German submarine
close to the Laeder coast and saved her
self by entering territorial waters. ' A
large riritish cruiser and a big subma
rine were sighted off UtBire.
Reports from various parts of the
A 7annni;n Woo Urivpn Off Laeder coast say that a -number of
it cruisers and destroyers have been seen
SECOND
ATTACK
ON PARIS
i
Last Night After Drop- KoinK southward very close to, land. A
Norwegian destroyer has cone out on pa-
ping Bombs Which Did No troi
F The Swedish steamer Sve and an-
Dama&fe According tO theotner vessel which have arrived at Chris
' Itiania report seeing four German cruis-
French Official Report aS "s in the Skagerrak Friday.
Made To-day
STEAMER DAMAGED.
Philadelphia of American Line Collided
. with a Liverpool Freighter.
London. Jan. 31. The American lin
I steamer Philadelphia has been in a col
lision with the Liverpool steamer Ben
Lee, 12 miles south of Caranarvon bay
Lloyd's reports the Philadelphia putting
back into the Mersey, the extent of the
, rt a; damage to her being unknown. The Bon
Vnen USea in MmjimCUUIl Lee wag waterlogged, but her crew wa
rescued.
PORTER FLED
FROM TRAIN
TO BEAT DISEASE,
KILLED HIMSELF
When Immigration Inspect
or Found a Chinaman
Locked in a Berth
MADE FLYING LEAP
NEAR EAST SWANTON
Chinaman Is Being Held at
St Albans for a
Hearing
ANTI-AIR CRAFT GUNS
WERE EFFECTIVE
with Aeroplanes in Ward
ing off Attack In Satur
day Night's Raid, 24 Peo
ple Were Killed, and 27
Were Injured
BRITISH LOSSES IN JANUARY
Totalled
1,079
and 19,625
Officers
Men.
London, Jan. 31. The British casual
ties, published during the month of Jan
uary, totalled 1,079 officers and 10,624
men.
The second Zeppelin raid on Fans
within two days was officially reported
to-day to have taken place Sunday night,
but the city and its people escaped harm.
The statement says that whilethe air
ship dropped a - number of bombs, no
damage was done. Anti-aircraft suns
and aeroplanes attacked the raider, which
ANXIETY IS FELT
FOR K SUBMARINE
u.
S. Navy Department Has Not Re
ceived Word from the Missing Ves
sel Many Ships Are Search
. ing for Her.
Washington, P. C Jan. 31 The
apparently let loose several ' explosive United States submarine K-5, which be
.f ,,. ,,. ,ii Mnt nf came separated from a flotilla of sub
, ' Imersibles while en route for manoeuvres
tne Domos reu u news or otner open at K Wegt )mg m)t rerted to
day although her sister ships are all
safe at Charleston. Half a dozen naval
spaces. There nave been no runner aoai
tionso the list of casualties from Sat
urday night's raid, which' were officially
A given out as 24 killed and 7 injured.
While isolated encounters and much
artillery and mining activity are report-
, ed, comparative quiet seems to have set-
. tied down again upon the western fight
vessels and coast guard cutters have
searched for the little vessel in a heavy
fog to-day and repeated unsuccessful ef
forts have been made to reach her by
wireless. .
Although the officials admittedly are
anxious as to the safety of the vessel,
it was pointed out that any one of sav
ing front;where the Germans recently Ural minor accident might have delayed
have reported notable successes, particu
larly in making considerable gain south
of the river Somme.. French counter
operations, however, probably are to be
looked for shortly in this sone of fight
ing.
the submarine or put bar wireless out of
commission. AH the boats of the K
class, the officials said, have proved
themselves seaworthy and efficient.
The - wireless sending radius of the
missing vessel was only fit) miles, which
it was said might account for the fail-
St. Albans, Jan. 31. As W. C. Robie,
an immigration officer, was going through
train No. 8 on the Central Vermont rail
road, which was due to arrive here, at
midnight. Saturday night, he found a
Chinaman locked in an upper berth of
the Springfield sleeper. When the dis
covery was made the porter was watch
ing the inspector and he ran to the rear
car and jumped off the train. The train
was not moving rapidly, and it is sup
posed that he was not injured, as officers
went back some time later and could find
no trace of the man. The place where
he jumped off wag about a mile north of
East Swanton.
The Chinaman was brought to the jail
in this city, where he is being held for a i
hearing. He gave the name of, Wong
Ling. 7 ' '
Burlington Man Used Revolver, Bullet
Entering His Forehead Was Found
By Daughter Who Fainted.
Burlington, Jan. 31. Gerardo' Com
pobaaso, 73 years old, shot and instant
ly kilted himself .yesterday afternoon
with a 38-calibre revolver, taking that
way out or lite rather than allow
(right's disease to run it course. He
was known to have been in a desponden
mood and had told many of his neigh
burs that it was his intention to take
his life Tat her than live an idle life
It was his daughter-in-law, with whom
ho lived, who first reached the man after
he had committed suicide. She wus
sleeping in a bed room on the opposite
side ot the kitchen from the room in
wMch Compolxisso was sitting and was
awakened by a sound which she sup
posed was made by a stone thrown
against the window pane by a child
She ran into the other room and there
found her father sitting with a smoking
revolver 111 his right hand, his head
resting back against the wall with blood
streaming from a wound in his temple.
He was dead and the woman after arous
ing others in the house fell in a faint.
The, man took his life with his own
revolver. It was a five-chambered gun
and when taken from the dead man's
hand contained three cartridges and one
empty shell, one of the chambers hav
ing not been loaded. He had kept the
revolver in a pail hanging from the ceil
ing up to a few weeks ago when it dis
appeared. Compobasso'' was born in
Ualy. He has lived in this country since
a young man.
MONTPELIER
Taxes Amounting to $356.32 Were Abat
ed Saturday Evening. '
POLISHING
PLANT BURNED
Hardwick Polishing Co. at
Hardwick Sustained a
Serious Loss
INSURANCE WAS v
RECENTLY REDUCED
DEATH OF GEORGE C. EARLE.
Former Resident of Bane Passed Away
at Williamstown.
Goorge C. Earle, a former resilient of
Barre and father of Mrs. II. A. Holt of
15 Walnut street, died Saturday at his
home in Williamstown, of hardening of
the arteries. During the past few years
ha had sustained a serious sickness, but
recently he had felt mo much improved
that he had engaged in his occupation
in a small way. His last illness started
with an attack of the grippe.
George Cady Larle was born in hast
Randolph, the son of Cady Allen and
Kun ice (Booth) Karle, the date of 11 is
PRO AND CON
0VER1IQU0R
Interesting Joint Debate on
Prohibition and Local
Option Held
birth being February 7, 1848. With his T.'AVCAC MAM TTP
parents he went to Williamstown Wen -ttJN MAIM Ui-
HELD THE FORMER
Cause of Last Night's Fire
Has Not Been De
. termined
he wa very young, and the greater part
of his life was sent in that town. For
fifteen vears. however, he redded in
Barre, being engaged first in trucking
granite between stonesheds and later , . ,, ,
conducting a harness shop. Ho moved While Maine Man lOOk the
Other Side of Snirited
hack to Williamstown about fifteen years
ago. He was a member of the Koyal
Arcanum in this city. I Verbal C1
iurs. r-arie uiea lour years nx"
Williamstown. Mr. Karlq is survived by
one daiiffhter. Mrs. Holt of this city, S
ir...j.. ! t. t. . v. 1 , and one brother. Elden Earle who resides , . . . v ' .' . ...
. iiaiulCK, ,-Bll. OJ. rire which uiur-c . v T W llttt IS Out O- With tllC IiqilOr
out at about 9:30 last evening destroyed The funeral will be held from liis lute traflic! Its b' & should be stripped
the plant of the Hardwick Polishing home in Williamstown Tuesday after- and the trap" continued, said Rev.
- . . . . . I . I 1 1 . T t t - til I V
company, and the los considerably noon ai z ooiock, itev. jonn jruna om- clarence T. .s of Toueka Kan who
larger than the insurance of $1,800. It ".""c'" ,
LCllirif-I fib 1 V linn llinLU V If 1 inima n u
requested to omit flowers.
was only two weeks ago that the com
pany caused the insurance on the prop
rty to be reduced from $2,K) on the
ground that the insurance rates were
high. The cause of the fire has not been
determined.
WAS ILL FOR TWO YEARS.
Aneelo Colombo. Granite Cutter. Died
Saturday Afternoon.
argued stat- .ie prohibition before a
largely attended mass meeting in the
opera house Sunday evening. Ixcal op
tion is the only regulative remedy, said
Editor E. F. Hanson of Jlelfast, 'Me., who
brought to a focus his intimate experi
ence with the -Maine prohibitory law and
its workings, in replying to Dr. Wilson
in one of the moHt interesting forensic
ROBBERY AT CENTER RUTLAND
Antrelo Colombo, one of the better encounters ever listened to bv a Karre
ll I I C T1..1:.. 1 r. f I -
i Known residents 01 me naiiin fuiimj u audience.
Barre, died at his home, 16 George street,
Taxes amounting to $350.32, not in-
eluding" the balance of the 1909 tax which
wa not collected, were abated Saturday'
evcniiiff at a meetine of the board of morning, which is the third time with
civil authority held at 7:30 o'clock in the 'n the last three months. The stamp
city council chambers. A number of per- drawer and money order drawers in the
sons appeared and showed reasons why posiomce department ot tne store were
WAQ FflT? MOVPY tllsy should not pay a tax .for 1915 re- rilled. Entrance was gained through a
w vm.s.i m. I ..,).: fti .., ,..: 1..J T!. . I roar in.l.iu.'
'Kl.lillu mrM-m t 'I 1 1 1 1 III- O 1 1 1 1 1 ! - - . .. ....... .-
marv of the amounts ahated follow: Just how ituch booty the thief or
Bodies ouno in a tenement Mouse at Must lav nir tax for 1914. lfl.l : balance thieves luireed awav could nut be es
Postoffice and W. F. Byrne's Store Weie Saturday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock, the
Rifled Sunday Morning. end following an illness of two years,
w i j t d i . The funeral will be held at the house
ButUnd, Jan. . 31.-Burglars entered Tuc.llttV aft-rnoon at 2 o'clock 'and in-
. 1 -v r . i . . I I. i a I. I . r ... . . .
uib v. i. Djme uiure which cumulus me terment win be maae in nope cemetery.
Center Rutland postofhec early Sunday I Mr. Colombo is survived hy his wife
TRIPLE MURDER
Kingston, R. I. All Three Had
Been Shot, and Two Were
Mutilated with Axe.
Frovidenee, R. I., Jan. 31. -Oscar Ol-
sen, 37. and (junta v Olseti, 33, brothers.
both section hands for the Xew-Haven
of 1909 tax, book abated; 1910 regular timated by Mr. Byrne, but it is prob
tax, f24, special tax $2.23j 1911 regular able some money, shoes, jewelry, cloth
tax '$40, special $3.73; 1912 regular ing and food were stolen.
$48.73, special $6.f0; 1913 regular $40.23; After breaking out the window, the
1914, $.rt); 1915, $124. Ithiel entered with the assistance of an
oil pump, which was just inside the win
Judce Harland B. Howe of St. Johns- dow, and from the appearance of the
Prohibition, statewide proscription of
liquor, and local option as the only re
medial measure vet to have the desired
effect in the solution of the liquor -prob
lem were argued in a regulation debate
under the auspices of the Ministers un
ion, i'astora of hpvpi-h1 nf Hip ritv
nl three anna. lfnrrv Colombo. Anirelo I ,.ln.r..l, j...i.i :
- . n . i-imn.in.ij Bunjiciiucii Liitni rt:iiiii oriy-
Colombo and' Benedetto Colomb. His jpog ra wjtn thjr
parents, Mr, and rra. Santin Colombo, Mourned to the opera house. In view of
are resiuents oi ureno i8enu, imi, tne aPt tlmt a proposed prohibition
where a sister, Miss Naria Colomlio, also amendment is to be submitted to the
lives. Other relatives surviving include electorate for referendum in rr,.h ihn
, . t . . 1 n . 1 1. , f T A. 1. 1 - '
two Drotners, --sataie uoiomoo oi .ww ninsj meeting served to assemble an au
field and Battista Colombo of South Bye-1 dience ouite evenlv divi,le! n. ll nrn.
gate, two sisters. .Mrs. rranceseo aodibi- hibition question. Dr. Wilson, a wid.lv
ti of Ilarre and Airs. l.Usto ahoho ot known Methodist divine, entered the
South Ryegate, an aunt, Mrs. Theresa lists airainst Mr.' Kmim. mnv iim-a
Gervasi of Barre, and two uncles, Alex- maVor of his home citv, and one of the
anoer toioniiKi aim auuiu luiuihuu, n,ORt prominent nrotaironists of ocal on-
of. this city. , tion. Rev, J. W. Baniett, pastor of the
fluwRBml whs hArn in llrpnn l.AP- I ,. a: 1 -1 i. i , . e
bury and Clerk K. S. Piatt of Rutland store he at once went to cutting cheese.
are px-row'ten in arriv in ih nirv' this I Several liirtr nieoeM were fmitwl aliont.
railroad, and William hhodes, 4U, colored, eVeninjr in readiness for the two (toys' the store, one piece beincr on a shelf
were found murdered, in a tenement session of I nited States court to be held desk over the safe in the poBtofhee de
house, formerly the old railroad station r naturalization purposes in the fed- partment. .When the store was en
at Kingston, yesterday.
,.r. .;! ii.. i.:
In the eastern war theatre, no recent ..IT.rr " ::Llf.. " .71
nci.ivii.iea resuiuug iu apicviauic hmosc were on the submarine,
of front are reported.. Some activity is
being displayed in thBalkana and on Charleston, 6. C, Jan. 31. Reports
. the Caucasus front, where the Turks and ' '" f "lT!
Russians are cUshing; near Erzerum. marineg 0f the K type, en route from
Athens reiterates the reports received the New York navy yard to Pcnsaeola,
'through diplomatic channels that the had heen missing since one o'clock
Russians surrounding Erxerum have in- umlay morni"ff- P- "enjamin C.
a i x . . , . Bryan, commandant of the Cliarleston
flicted fresh defeat on the Turks, who navjr yard) rofll8ed t0 affirin or dcny thc
are fortifying hastily positions much to report.
the westward towards Constantinople. , The Monitor Tallaliassee and three
, . . submarines of the K type, said to be the
rrmrsx nnnnixr K-l' K-2 and K-6, -arrived at Charleston
TWO GLKMAN Bar early last night, but did not enter
A mm a fva A tt tit I because of the fog. The buoy tender
Al lALKb lAILLD Mangrove left Cliarleston apparently to
ward - Cape Komain off the Carolina
Paria Reports That Hand Grenades Were coast northward of here, where, it was
iiia, me suomanne was last signtea.
Used in Vain Last Night Near The K-.15 was one of the four submersi
ble en route to Pensacola.
All three men had been shot, and the
Olsens had also been mutilated with an
xe. The room presented a scene of vio-
nce and disorder. Rhodes was appar
ently headed for the door when a shot
through the neck severed his jugular vein.
A section hand named James Morris
sought by the police all over the state.
Morris, who went to work for the New
Haven road a little over a week ago, is
said to have been seen leaving the scene
of the murder about 9 o'clock yesterday
morning.
ersl Imililiriir. Court will convene to- three months ago this time it was bus
morrow forenoon at 10 o'clock for the pected that a yount? bov by the name of
purpose of holding hearings preparatory I Raymond Mangan had committed the
to the granting of the tina citizcnshin theft. 1 he robbery was repeated a
papers. ... , .. - I month ago and voung Mangan was ar
.The Fehmarv ferm of nnrem emir rested and he has since been in the
opens to-morrow morning at the State county jail.
House at 10 o'clock. It is expected that
ria. Sept, 20, 1866. In 1HS9 he came to
America and settled in Concord, N. H.,
where he followed the granite cutter's
trade, a trade which he acquired as a
, J I voung man. in Italv. Five vears later
tered k . ..... ,.., tu
(it; imftru iu imnr, ami naM, iici vr i ,n ci,
been a resident of this citv since 1894.
His marriage to Miss Luigia Abbiatti
took place in Italy Aug. 14, 1892. Mr.
Colombo was for several years employed
as a cutter bv the Harrison Oranite com
pany. His death has brought Borrow to
many people in the Italian community.
WAS NATIVE OF BR00KFIELD.
Rev( William H. Walbridge Died in Mil-
ford, N. H. Funeral Sunday.
Milford. X. H Jan. 31. The funeral
SERIOUSLY HURT IN FALL
W. F. Hammond of Middlebury Slipped
and Fell on Back.
Middleburv, Jan. 31 W. F. Hammond,
superintendent of the United States
Daniels officiated :uor;rn " , '. f -
jureu namruay aiiernoon wnen ne
the term will ha a biiBy one inasmuch as
there are many eases listed for trial
which were transferred from the Jan
uary calendar. ,
William Grady, agentt Montpelier
Junction, who has been seriously ill with
The crime was not discovered until the grippe, threatened with pneumonia, I of Rev, William H. Walbridge was held
- - - - i, . . .... . . , . i mii lit' r mi Hiifinni; ni
laie in f he da v. when John Smith, a see- i improving. Ilia place is being taken from the Lmtanan cnurcli yesterday ...-
a-..- t V i :i a 'i r-..j hv Thnmaa fe of Unrlinton aftprnnon. Rev K P. Tlaniela officiated uurHn ""T,m ,
lion jureiiian lur mr; iiihu, nru f r-- i -
F. Hahirnek. a. track noliceman. while Misa Besaie Rer .left this morninir and the church quartet sang. The Ma
passim? the building, noticed tools scat- for Sharon, where she will make an ex- mm9 hl charge of the services, as Mr.
tered around the door. Intending to tended visit with relatives.
warn the Olsens to take care of their A marriage license was issued fatur
tools, Smith stepped to the door of the day to Richard M Parker of Barre street
house. - and Miss Florence St. Mary of Franklin
The three bodies, drenched in blood, I street. .
confronted him as he entered the door. I In probate court to-day Hattie M.
Sheriff John R, Wilcox of .Washington Richmond of Northfleld was appointed
county. Deputy Sheriff Charles Bennett, I executrix of the will of George 11. Rieh-
and Town Sergeant Isaac T. Hopkins be- mond, late of Northfleld; Mrs. Adelaide
gan
Congregational church and president of
the Ministers union, acted an chairman,
and prayer was offered bv Rev. J. B.
Reardon of the Universalis church.
Kach advocate was allowed 30 minutes
for his main argument and 30 minutes
for rebuttal. Dr. Wilson, who opened
the debate, was given 13 minutes in
which to close at the end-of the rebut
tals. Before the audience dispersed, the
audience, united when it came to a man
ifestation of patriotism, if divided on
one of the paramount isues of the day,
sang "America" witli unusual spirit.
No decision was made on the outcome
of the debate. Instead, the Ministers'
union chose to let the decision rest witli
the audience, and if the results of the
debate, while far-reaching, were not im
mediately in evidence last night, it may
be that the exercise of the franchise bv
those voters who listened through the
debate will determine the decision when
the polls are opened March 7. The jury
Walbridge was a member of Royal Arch
bridge and of Rochester eommandery,
Knights Templar. The bearers, were
Fred T. Wadleigh, Charles S. Emerson,
Albert W. Turner and Deacon A. D. Wil-
911.
Rev. Mr. Walbridge died at his home
Ion Mount Vernon street Thursday after
brief illness. He was born in Brook-
an investigation of the crime soon Kstee of Montpelier was appointed fi,,,u' vt- in If 40, the son of Mr. and
Hill No. 140.
Paris, Jan. 31, The German
forces New York. Jan. 31 The submarine K-I.
i last night delivered two -attacks with K-2, K-5 and K-6, each carryig a erew
f Jiand grenades near hill No. 140, both of of from six to eight men, sailed from
w hich resulted in failure, according ,to here Friday for Key West for winter
the French official announcement given manouvres along the Florida coast. They
out this afternoon. were accompanied by the submarine ten-
dcr Tallahassee.
FRENCH ATTACKS na7. yard w,,ere
I nn Duuuini mm iinu llllur I guile TI'pHlin
for several monthe, it was said no word
limiltJTTUVICB KlOllpJ UIB T I'TIUB C'ttHt. 1 OCy
left here. All were supposed to be
in perfect condlition. .
afterward. guardian1 of Allan J Molly, Harry B.
Circumstances indicate that the tnur- and George H. McLean, all minors of
dcr of the three men. at least of the two Montpelier: Arthur W. Locklin of North-
Olsons, was carefully planned, with rob- field was appointed administrator of the
bery as the motive. Although there, are I estate ot John A. tAK'Klin, late of .North-
houses within a few hundred feet of the
old station, no one heard any shooting,
and it is supposed the murderer waited
his time and covered his act under the
noise of a passing train.
The Olsen brothers were known to have
had considerable money saved up, and on
one day last week Rhodes is said to have
displayed a roll of more than $200. S
eager, apparently, was the murderer of
field.
Mrs. H. W. Dunton of Prospect street
ia improving rapidly at Heaton hospital,
where she was taken. a week ago for
treatment, and will be removed to her
home to-morrow.
Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius Lawrence re
turned Saturday evening from Boston
and Lynn, Mass., where they made a
.Mrs. Hiram Walbridge, and received his
education in the Greenfield Theological
seminary
In 181 he married Miss Fannie Burn
ham of Roxbury, Mass., and following
her death, Mrs. fc. K Adams of Port
land, Me. He is survived by three chil
dren, Charles F. Walbridge of Peterboro,
Elmer B. Walbridge of the West Indies
and Mrs. Lucy M. Annis of Rochester,
He' was pastor of Unitarian churches
in Stowe, V t., Peterboro and Rochester,
N. H. He served on the school boards of
Peterboro and Rochester, and in Milford
served six vears as chairman of th
school board, refusing re-election last
He was a member of the legisla
",,tlt J .:ti . -a i- i .i .a , i
slipped and fell on his back. It is feared .1"' .lur" 118 "ru"!1 n l,,ai aml
that he was internally injured. He was nul " I " , V"aKreemenc- .
attended by Dr. S. F. Kddy of this vil- 7mT' "B1 I"a"W an inti-
lage, who summoned Dr. j. B. Wheeler mate;. t-'iand knowledge of the liquor
of Burlington. After a consultation it 1uert, L1" J? various phases, Dr. X ,1-
was decided to take Mr. Hammond to on. Topeka opened the debate Ora-
the Mary Fletcher haspital.
zinder McCarthy.
Germans Say They Have Failed to Re
gain Ground About Neuville 'Re
cently Lost to the Teutons.
WILSON GUARDED
VERY CLOSELY
Berlin, via London, Jan. 31. The
French have been making repeated at
tempts to regain the ground recently 125 Policemen and 23 Secret Service Men
iobi near ieuvme, tne army neadquar
ters announced to-day, but all their at
tacks have been beaten off, the Germans
artill holding their newly won trenches.
ITALY TO SEND AID
INTO ALBANIA
German News Agency Says That Italy
Considers Effective Defense of
Southern Section a Necessity.
Surrounded His Train When It
Stopped in Chicago
To-day.
Chicago, Jan. 31. President Wilson
passed through Chicago to-day en "route
from I levelanrt to Milwaukee, where he
is to deliver an address this afternoon,
which some of his party believe to be
one of the most important of his tour to
advocate national defenae.
Because of the large foreign-born pop
ulation of Milwaukee, it was thought
the president would touch on the duties
of naturalized Americans in their adopt
ed country in connection with the pre
Berlin via wireless Jan. 31.-Italy ha. rre(1nea. policy. Twenty-five secret
decided to continue her campaign in Al- errvice m,n J(M,
banu., according to ienn advice, given tl)e four c.r, Wring the presidential
out tOMlsy by the Ovearsea. new. .gen- party duri thpir . w
ry, and it is Mid to have landed an ad- 1 h
ADMIRAL BARKER DEAD.
ditinnsl infantry division and several
lotteries of heavy artillery at Avlona.
'Italy will not give up Albania," the
. agency says. "She consider, the effective
1 defense of the southern part of the coun
try a military and political neeeasifr "
Other reports state that Italv Is lacking m,r Barker, U. S X
suflicient troops of her own and haa served from 1W.2 to 1905,
Served in United States Navy from 1862
to 1905.
Washington. I). C, Jan. 31. Rear Ad-
retired, who
died at hia
ked for help from England and Franc. nom h.T TM-rdy of pneumonio.
Admiral narker was native of Han-
two weeks' visit. Mr. Lawrence resumed
the men to aet at their money that some his duties this forenoon in the office of
of the pockets were ripped from the rest the freight department of the Montpelier !" m,f,T"-r lRT
of the clothing. He slashed open the U Wells River railroad. tore In WOO and 191 1 Mr. Walbridg.
overalls which one of the Olsens wore, William tarey of Northficld street
in order to get at the pocket containing commenced to-day a two weeks' vacation
money. irom m uuuen aa uerior in tne local
Little is known of the man known as office of the Western Union Telegraph
James Morris, for whom the police are company. The company, commencing
looking. He went to work for the New thi year, is to give all employes a two
Haven road only last Thursday and since weeks' vacation with pay, but the em-
that time had been living with the OI- pioye must take the leave when it Is of
sens. He told no one, unless possibly the fpred and not choose his time as in years
Olsens, anything about himself.
served throughout the Civil war with a
battery of Massachusetts artillery.
DEATH OF E. L. SIBLEY.
Thc old station where the murder, was
committed was formerly the Kingston
station. It was abandoned about 30
years ago and later converted into a ten
ement for section men. Previous to its
occupancy by the Olsens, it had been
used at inte'rvals by various gangs of
laborers.
Bennington Manufacturer Died Yester
day of Apoplexy.
Benninsrton. Jan. 31. Edward L. Sib-
past. Mr. Carey expects to leave for lev. formerly indue of the probate court
Boston the first of next week. and since 1883 a manufacturer of eyelet
Mrs. A. Bernadini of 73 Main street presses and stationers supplies, died at
left this noon for Concord, N. H., audi his home here yesterday of apoplexy. He
ISoston to make a week s visit with her is survived by his wile, three sons and
mother and other relatives. jtwo daughters.
TV T TV,nn..llv lofi S..n.lo f. v. I Mr. blcy was
LAMAR
LOST
HIS
APPEAL
Supreme Court Upholds Conviction on
Charge of Impersonating U. S. Offi
cer with Intent to Defraud.
Washington, D. C Jan. 31. David I-
mar, convicted in tne .-ew ior ieierai
courts on the charge of impersonating an
officer of the United States with intent
to defraud, lost his appeal in supreme
court to-day. The New York court is
now free to enforce its penitentiary sen
tence.
gennes, where he assumes this week his
duties as assistant postmaster, having
oeen appointed to that position by his
brother, John Donnelly. Mr. Donnelly,
during his 17 years' residence in Mont
pelier, made a boat of friends and a
goodly number gathered at the station
laKt evening to bid him farewell.
Harry lratt returned this morning to
Proctor, where he ii employed, after a
visit in the city with his parent,.
With the schedule nearly half eom-
pleted the Clerks have a fairly secure
hold on first iiosition in the ritv bowling
league and the only other teams which
I win 10 nave a mane in me champion
born in Bennington,
May 24, 188.). He was graduated from
Williams college in 1876 and admitted
to the practice of law in this state. In
11878 he was fleeted judge of the pro
bate court and held that office for 10
years.
The funeral will be held Wednesday
afternoon.
SLUMP IN RADIUM.
As in Uranium But an Increase in Vana
dium in 1913. '
Radium, uranium, and vanadium are
closely connected in oi;urrcnc in the
hip are the Kagles, independents and principal fields, Colorado and I'Uh, but
Apollo club. The standing of the league
follow
IS HELD IN JAIL.
NAVAL BATTLE EXPECTED.
Both Germans and British Show Activi
ty ea Norwegian Coast
Chriatiania, via London, Jan. 31. Ex
traordinary British and German nsval
activity has been in evidence along the with having been th firt naval om.-er
on, Jlajis-, and wa. ,2 year. old. He
beoam an ensign in I Mi and took part
in the capture of New Orb-ana. During
the Spenioh-American war he was a
member of the board of strategy. Itrr
he wa. commander of the North Atlan
tic flet. Admiral Barkrr ia credited
mast the past few days, acoHing to the
Mavarger correspondent f Morgenbla-
in the United Mates
j krmes ia shells.
to fire liii-h tx-
L. E. Colburn's Actions in Franklin Coun
ty To Be Investigated.
St. Albans. Jan. 31. L. E. Colburn.
who was arrefted in Swanton. has been
brought to the county jail here to be
held pending an investigation of bis sus
pected connection with a "potato chip"
game, lie waa taken on a eae growing
out of the purchase of a pair of !. on
memorandum.
Clerk
Katie .-.
Independents ..
Apollo
Tenney
Klka .
Italian Spanish
Hakera
All Mars ....
P. W.
24
19
14
16
It
10
Si
6
. 0
I
4
A
N
10
14
19
1H
Pet.
.".7
.7!
.70
.416
Ml
.ism
The hich .ho. blrtHall team was
efeat--d fiy Stwe liij-fi school at Stowe
Saturday evening bv the score of 23 to
IX
in r.'l-, altnougu tne f.uropean war
caused a great slump in the production
of ore of radium and uranium, it ceased
a conaiderable increase in the. produc
tion of ores in vanadium.
According to reports for I15. received
bp tne 1 n uea ;mio geological sur-
vey. and compiled by Frank L. Hess the'
output was Jt- '"n ol uranium Hide
and six grsma of radium contained in
the carnotite ores produced, and tn
of van, 1mm contained in the carnotite
ore hijp-4 nd in the chemical con
ceMrwtea from the j-..,-,l,te ore. I.
Cte ores prod contained 7.2
tona nraniura oxMe. 224 gram radiuu..
Sii I 4.1-5 tons laoadium.
Marriage Took Place at St Monica's Rec
tory This Morning.
At St. Moniea"s rectory on Summer
street this morning at 9 o'clock, Miss
May I McCarthy, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas C. McCarthy of 107 South
Main street, and George E. Zinder were
married by the pastor of St. Monica's,
Rev. Jr. r. M. McKenna. Iho bride was
attended by her cousin, Miss Joanna Mc
Carthy of Montpelier, and Alexander
Bmslie, a long-time friend of Mr. Zinder,
acted as groomsman. Mr. and Mrs. Zin
der left the city over the Central Ver
mont railroad at 11:50 o'clock this fore
noon on a honeymoon trip to Boston and
other points. On their return, they will
reside in Barre.
The bride is a popular Barre young
woman, who has been employed for some
time as an operator in the Barre office of
the Vermont Telephone & Telegraph Co.
Mr. Zinder is a granite cutter in the em
ploy of Jones Brothers.
TALK OF THE TOWN
James 'MePermott of Brook field was
business visitor in the city to-day.
Mr. and Mr. Harold Oilman of Ran
dolph were week-end visitors of friends
in the city.
Mrs. . r. Shepard of , ashington
street left this noon on a short business
rip to New York.
J. K. Soott left the city last night
or Cape Ann., Mass., where he has se
cured employment as a tool sharpener
Sirs. John Oliver or upper Washington
street went to Burlington last night to
receive treatment at the Mary Fletch
er hospital.
Mrs. H. S. racks returned Saturday
from Montpelier. whers she was called
Friday by the illness of her niece, Miss
Hose Moore.
Rev. J. W. Barneft of thc Congrega
tional church left this noon for fUn-
lolph, where he will deliver sn address
before the men's club this evening.
Anthony If. Fasola of Berlin street
left the city lat night on a business
trip through New Jersey. Pennsylvania,
Ohio and Kentucky in the interest of
the F.xcelsior Granite Co.
diaries Tonelht and G. Abbiatti of
Milford. X. H.. arrive.) in the city lrt
night having been called here by the
death of Aiigeki lolomlm of treorge
street, who pase. away Saturday aft
ernoon. Natale t'olomtxv of NorthficM
and Battists t'ohmilio of South Kyerate.
brothers of the deceaed. and Ir. .uto
Alioo, a lo of South Rrate. a iter
of Mr. Colombo, are in the city to at
tend the funeral, whiih i to be bell
T ue! y afternoon.
toricai power is ins and ne used it in
presenting to his hearers his main argu
ment in the first 30 minutes of the de
bate. .Xo one questioned the sincerity of
either speaker in the controversial clash.
Certainly no one questioned Dr. Wilson
and it was just as certain that Editor
Hanson was deadly in earnest. It w-as a
fair-minded audience and if one corner
applauded inherent righteousness in one
speaker's contention, it received with ac-
laim a telling sally from the other side.
Dr. Wilson appeared more in the role of
a casuist, working out the niceties of a
moral question tlmt is engrossing the at
tention of civilization to its very out
posts. He was the accomplished dialec
tician, skilled in the synthetic process of
bringing together the various elements in
bomb shell that he hurled into thc lo
cal option camp.
r.ditor Hanson is the rough-and-ready
debater and he proved it to the satisfac
tion of his auditors. Quick to grasp the
fundamentals in his opponents argu
ment, he was equally quick with his re
plies in rebuttal. He knows Maitie bet
ter than Admiral Peary knows the grain
of the north pole. He has a potent, al
most eerie knowledge of what he de
scribed as the pharasaical operation of
the Maine prohibitory law. Schooled as
master ot give-and-take polemics he
bowed himself to be a reasoner of more
than ordinary depth, albeit having with
in him the power of renddy speech, in
short an opponent worthy of anyone's
mettle.
Dr. Wilson Calls It Moral Issuo.
Dr. Wilson's argumentation was large
ly concerned with the history of the liq
uor problem as a distinctly moral issue,
attempts made at regulation in America.
and the devious ramiticstions of the liq
uor traflic wherever it has failed to feci
the controlling hand of constitutions
prohibition. Throughout his main argu
ment as well as in his rebuttal sm! In
the summing-up. be sought to slior that
prohibition, as it is practiced in Kanxiis,
Nebraska and 17 other states, is not the
prohibition that Maine knows, thj-t it is
prohibition in fart and not in fancy or
mere theory. He tra,--d the prohibition
movement lack to it very iin-eption 1 Ml
years ago. Of the policy our forefathers
pursued of '"leaving it alone." Once It
was ascertained that liquor will nd
leave it devotees abne. drinking in mod
eration was prescribed. Moderation
failed when it liecame known, be sai-j.
that liquor is a poisonous narcotic and
not a food. Total abstinence from spir
ituous J.(iior followed and it hell sw.v
until men fund that t'tc t !iir-t which
lighter alcoholic h-v-ri- creates 1,.,1 r
strong drink, until it was discovered ti-?t
olwr men were Irirg transformed i-.to
drunkards faster than the sr-read of so
briety. Then came l,n and tcrtist
hijh license, which wale if tec lnjii-r
traffic a wninpoly. Mu-lert of fV
drink prnMrm scarche,! its 111 for a se-
((ortinnel on f.-'.h -i ;-. .
