Daily
I Call Tyler 1000
' If Voil Want in Talk In Tk. ri
THE WEATHER.
Cloudy
i or to Anyone (Tonjiretrd
With The IV.
VOL XLVXO. 194.
DMA1LV, MONDAY MORNING, JANUARY 31, 1P1GTKN PACES.
Om Train, at xfetol
ww itulii teH a
SINGLE COPY TWO CENTS.
TVEIITY-FOIIR
DEAD 1.1 PARIS
FROM AIR RAID
STORM CONDITIONSIN
MOUNTAINS BETTER
Railroad and Wire Communication
in Rockies Shows Marked
Improvement
WILSON TELLS
OF HIS FAITH IN
THE ALIEN BORN
PRESIDENT SAYS
NATIONJN PERIL
Comes to Proclaim that Ferili
Before Republic Are Infinite
and Conitant.
LOOTERS WORK
BEHIND FLOODS;
DAM GOES OUT
FUTURE EMP" R AND EMPRESS OF AUSTRIA
When Emp'' -Joseph of Austria passes away, his
nephew-' -him. Archduchess Zita, wife of the
Arcv aV"- -onstant attendance on the aged monarch.
A vv.i is with the army in the field.
The Omaha
Bee.
r
Fire Engines and Squads of I
Trumpeters Go Through City
Sounding Alarm When
Noise Fills Sky.
DOZEN BOMBS ARE DROPPED
Twenty-Seven Reported Wounded
by Missiles Hurled from
Aircraft.
DAMAGE DONE TO PROPERTY
Bl 1.I.KTI.
, PARIS. Jan. 80. Twenty-four
persons were Killed and twenty-seven
injured In the Zeppelin raid over
Tarls Saturday night, according to
an official statement given out to
day. Ten of the wounded were
placed in hospitals, owing to the
severity of their hurts.
PARIS, .Ian. 30. Paris has Just
been completely darkened in antici
pation of a Zeppelin raid. Fire en
gines and squads of trumpeters are
going through, the city sounding the
i larm.
Searchlights also are In operation
and the noise of aeroplanes 1b
heard In several directions, but as
et the sound of only two shots
l.as been heard. It is uncertain
whether the shots came from ap
proaching Zcppe'lns or were those
of anti-aircraft guns. "
A Zeppelin was heard over Paris
at 9:20 o'clock, and shortly . after
two bombs wertt dropped, injuring moving their stocks to higher ground and
ten persons. ' ranchers were driving live stock from
nt... i j . . . . .-' Jowlands hitherto considered Immune
has been learned that about ifrom lloodt.
dozen" bombs were dropped in 'all, Reclamation officials said they hoped
killing ten persons and wounding; to hold the Yuma valley levees. Just re
thirty. . built, but expressed doubt as to whether
LOXDOX, Jan. 30. A dispatch
lo U. liters' Telegram company from )
Prria states that a Zeppelin dropped
I .,.,.1 o r..--. - n i. ,
night. The dispatch states that
there were some victims and dam-
age to property.
Two Janitors Work
For thePayl,pne,
Says the Statement
(From a Staff CorresDOdenL) ' i
LINCOLN. Jan. 30. Special.) One of I heavy fall of snow In many sections of
those great questions of state which may j tha northwest during the last three days
he of Importance Is now up to the board has sarlously interfered with train srv
whtch has In charge the state house. It lce. blocked street traffic, in many towns
Involves the work of the lanltnra and made wire communication uaosr-
The statement has been made to tha
board that some of the Janitors work too
long- and that others do not work lone;
enough. Another complaint comes that
two men are drawing onV man's pay.
Thj lm.t?er CAmnlilnt 1 pnn.lr,Klv
different than 1 sometimes heard where
one man draws two mens pay, but
in thla case it la alleged that two
. students draw the pay of one Janitor and
j Tllvldo the work. The complaint Is that
I theeo two young men are compelled to
do mora than the work of one Janitor.
This bas brought on a difference of
opinion between Head Janitor Berg and
State Treasurer Hall, tha former dectar-
that he Is short one man and tha
state treasurer declaring that tha Janitors
are long one man. Thus the harmony
,chtad'trha!
which baa prevailed among
fleers has now been, contracted
Janitors and it is not known where it
will all end.
It is pretty well known that tha Janitor
force puta in mighty long hours and if
anybody in the stato house earns their
salaries thla winter it is the Janitors..
Plf.V f.llO Pnn"P Tflim PT
X Ity ITUU1 X CUilltJi
XTn4- V.TT TA7V. 1 n T,i rn-Fiil
Uy II UU1C U Ugl Ul m the northwest. I
1 .She celebrated her lCd birthday anni-
MlfWOURI VALLEY, la.. Jan. S0. I versary only a few days age. On that
(Special.) "Hey;-there! Don't" you want'0 contracted pneumonia and her
to earn a quarter by ahovellng the snow death resulted. She waa born in Norway
from the sidewalk?- Said one of th n January. 114. At the age of sh
young bank clerks to a moderately , was married. The husband died many
dressed stranger In front of tha bank yeara ago. Of their thre chtS-en two
here as the bank opened this morning. are living, these being John and BrltU
"yes," aaid the stranger and he took Mundahl of Toronto,
tha shovel and did a fine Job of work. ! For the last four years th aged woman
Then he went into the bank and was had been confined to her bed on account
given' the quarter, after which be laid
down 1100 in crisp billsAto pay off a!w" menial ana pnyncaj oonai
not not yet due. The farmer remarked tion until afflicted with pneumonia ea
that he had no uso for the money Just I birthday. In addition to the on
now. aad would like to meet his obliga- daughter, she is aurvlved by five
lion a Utile in advance. 'grandchildren, twelv greatgrandchildren
Tha bank clerk collapsed.
The Weather
oaa-hta Teeter day.
flour. Deg. !
I a. m I
-4 i
, -41
i J
-i
)1 1JS. 1914. Uls
Higheat vestrrday 1 34 4K 44
Loweat riitida.. 1 tl U
Mean ti mper-tur O M M S4
frTMlpttaltoft -a uU T
Tenperatur aad pracipltation depar
tiiea Iroia tha aorrnai:
BIJTCIUI1 ..,........,. t
Ueflci-iiry for tb day ll
joiai n.iriry ainoa March 1 14
Normal pip'-iiiitation (it Inch
fV',? t a. m..
. zAXf t a, in!!
XH 9 a.m..
P. GrOCW a p! m!.'.T!.';i!
raafarattT ! WLrfrA
lKfirwiii'v for th day 02 Inch
Total rainfall eitiee March lm nes
Ix.'i . y Mini lianh I winch
t n .-nry for cor. period. 1914. t . Inrhe
i . r in.-v for cor. ix-rkxl, ml. 4.tU Inches
- iiKlicaU-a below svro.
T iiidicalra trai-w of preclpitatioD.
U A. Wi-LSil. Local orec cr.
HEAVY SNOWS IN NORTHWEST
DKNVKR. Colo., Jan. 30. Storm
conditions in the Rocky mountain
states, which for two days were
swept by rain and snow from the
Mexican to the Csmulian border,
showed marked improvement today.
According to advices, received here
there had been no loss of life. The
most serious property damage was
indicated in the vicinity of Phoenix
and Yuma, ArU., where the Gila,
Salt and Colorado rivers " were at
flood stages. Phoeutx estimates
placed the damage In that region at
$500,000.
Railroad and wire communication
which was seriously Interrupted
showed gradual improvement to
night. Overland trains from the west
were reported twelve hours ' late
owing to flood conditions in south
ern California and Arizona and heavy I
snows in the Rocky -mountain states. J
Cheyenne reported no trains from
the west had reached there today,
and snow was drifting badly in
southwestern Wyonr'ng.
Traffic lelarl.
glides continued in the Tellurite and
Bllverton. Colo., region, but early tonight
no loss of life was reported. Overland
traffic on the Denver & Rio Grande which
crosses the cont nental divide near Lead
vllle was seriously delayed. ,
Reports from Yuma, Arlx., were the
Colorado river had passed the twenty
; five foot stage and was rising" about one
foot an hour, with the crest of the high
waters two days away. Merchants were
those on the, California side would with
stand the rise. Every available man was
being prosed Into service for strengtheh-
Ing the levee. No word had been received
!from the Imperial valley since early morn
m wnen me issi wire 10
Tuma went
i down,
Phoenix advices described the storm
wblch ended today, the worst In
eleven years. The Arlsona capital ''was
cut off from , rail communication by
washing out of bridges on the Southern
Pacific and Atchison, Topeka Santa
Kb railroads.' Twelve feet of water was
rushing over the spillways of the noose-,
velt dam and he Olla -anBSalt rtvere
wr at flood stage, but receding. . .
w la TlortfcwMt.
MINNEAPOLIS. Minn.. Jan,
' SO.-Th
tain, according to reports received here
tonight. Trains from the western coast
arrived in tha Twin Cities, several hours
lata.
RaUroada are experiencing the greatest
difficulty in operating train in North
Dakota, where th amow in some sections
Is reported to have drifted to a depth
of ten to twenty Boot,
Ambrose, N. JX, and other nearby towns
have been ten days without railroad serv
loa and report that the fuel supplies are
becoming extremely low.
Low temperatures prevail tn Montana,
where huge drifts and snow slides have
demoralised railroad traffic Not In a
score of years has the state been in the
grip of so sever a storm, reports say.
Catches Pneumonia
On 102nd Birthday
And Death Eesnlts
SIOUX FALLS, S. D., Jan. 30 (Sps
i.t k h.i of her ridurhter 111
Toronto occurred the death of Mrs. Karl
. Mundah, Me4 th. mo,t aged per-
' son in Houth Dakota aad one of the oldest
" " '"" " """" -
land two great-greaUcrandchlldren.
British Officials
See French Chiefs
PARIS. Jan. 3ft. A commission consist
ing of David Lloyd George, minister of
munitions; Andrew Bonar Law, secretary
for the colonies; General Sir William R ib
rtson. General Du Cane Ian McPheraon
and Colonel Arthur Le arrived her from
London laat night to dlacua with Albert
Thomas, under secretary of war, and hla
associate experts the subject of speeding
up the production of munitions and )lnr
co-operation between Oreat Brttaha aad
Frano.
SWISS REGRET RIOTS
AGAINST THE GERMANS
BERLIX. Jan. JO. tVU London. )-Th
tTwts minister called at the foreign office
today and expraed th regret of his
government ovor the anti-German out
break in Lausanne, during which the
German flag over the consulate was torn
down. The Ucrman government e-
presat'd thanks tor bwltserland'a piompt
action and the incident aas closed.
ONE ARREST MADE
IN BENSON SUNDAY
E. H. Tindell Put in Durance Vile
for Selling a Bee Against
Order of Mayor.
TEST IS TC BE MADE ON ORDER
Ernest II. Tindell, who conducts
a news stand at 2903 Military ave
nue, Benson, must stand trial before
Police Judge Fred Bailey of Benson
at 9 o'clock this morning for selling
a Bee on Sunday. Mr. Tindell baa
run a cigar and news stand at the
main intersection, of Benson for a
number of years and . when C. L.
Mather, mayor of Benson, issued or
ders that every store In the village
should, be closed TlndeM kept open.
Mather lesued orders that anyone sell
ing anything In th vUlage should be ar
rested. Chief of Police Hughe went into
Ttndcll's place and after watohlng him
make the sals of The Bee and other
aales, arrested him. The mayor and
chief then went the rounds of other
stores, but found that all were obeying
the order.
It la undet stood, however, that seven
teen of the merchants of Benson have
signed an agreement to test th law and
that they will have someone (violate tha
law to make a test case. Whether they
will stand back of the arrest made yes
terday to make the teat bas not been
determined.
Price of Pound of
Radium Over Nine
Millions of Dollars
WASHINGTON. Jan. . More than
S9,AC0,00M a pound would be the price
asked for radium were that quantity of
th valuable metal available and for sal
at on time. Late In 1915 there waa aold
in this country on and one-tenth grams
of radium (element) at th rat of tlM.oOT
a gram, according t a report issued to
day by th United State Geological sur
vey. Tha entire output of the United
Statea'last year, however, waa only six
grams, or about one-seventy-alxth of a
pound avoirdupois. The European war
caused a great slump In the production
of radium, as In lull there were 1X3 grams
produced.
"Th United States haa tha largest
known radium-bearing deposits In the
world," says the geological survey, ''but
th market for radium la mostly In Eu
rope, for, although Americans like to feel
that they are sufficiently progressive to
take hold of and use to the full new dis
coveries, Inventions and procesaes, yet
tha European municipalities and hospitals
have been buying and utilizing moat of
th radium produced. When the wsr be
gan, therefore, causing European money
to flow Into other channel), the demand
for radium fell, off so greatly that there
was practically no market for radium or
uranium ores in the early, part of 1515,
and very little market during any part
of th year."
A a result of th collapse of the radium
market, mining of ratfluin-bcarlng ores
except for such work as was necessary to
hold claims, waa nearly stopped. Through
th efforts of the expert of th I'nlted
States bureau of mines a process haa
bean developed by which radium haa boon
produced at a cost of 137,69a a gram. The
principal fields of th radlum-beailng ores
ar in Colorado and Utah.
BANDITS WHO KIDNAPED
GIRLS ARE DEFEATED
FX PASO, Tex.. Jan. 30Oenerat Miguel
Hman4es, former Villa commander of
Pearson, weatera Chbuahna. and his
band f about 125 snen. was attacked by
Mexican ranch- of Cooomorachlo, in th
Guerrero district, and lost all f their
horses, rifles and ammunition, according
to a report reaching U border today. Th
ranchers reported fourteen Mexican girls
had been kidnaped by tha bandits.
After two days' ride, th ranchers sur
prised th bandits and opened fir.
The bandits were unable to reach their
mount and rifles, according to the r
oort and after about forty of the bandits
had been MMi J, the othei (led. Ahivt
I'ty ranchers were sxld to have been In
II e atiacKing party
AMERICAN LINER
IS HURT BY CRASH
I
Philadelphia Collides with British ,
Steamer and Puts Back Into
Mersey.
EXTENT OF LAMA0E UNKNOWN!
j Itefore arriving In Milwaukee th presl-
t nKmvi . , . dent will deliver brief platform speeches
LONDON. Jan. 3o.-The Amerl- ,t vera, mioom V.aconsln town.
can line steamer Philadelphia haa , through which his train will pass. Mil
been In collision with the Liverpool waukee will b reached at noon. At 1
steamer Benlee twelve miles south ' p- ". h will address ap ublio meeting In
of Carnarvon Bay. Lloyds reports i ih" auditorium and will leave at 4 o clock
,. . , . , ... . , , . 'for Chicago t speak tomorrow night,
the Philadelphia putting back lnto;Th. pr,.lltent ,ttfl mMllber, of pBrty
the Mersey, the extent of the damage ; have been well pleased with th success
to it being unknown. The Benlee ! of his meeting In Pittsburgh and Clave-
was waterlogged, but Its crew was
rescued.' ;'
. ..Tha collision between the. Benle
and the Philadelphia, which waa out
ward bound from Liverpool for New
York, occurred about 9:30 o'clock
Saturday night. The Benlee speed
ily became waterlogged. Ita crew
waa rescued by the Cork steamship
Bandon and landed at Holv Head. !
, v t., strengthened without delay. ,
One seaman on the Benlee was badly , Notwithstanding th opposition of
Injured. The Philadelphia sustained chairman Har of th house military af
conslderable damage to lta upper j fairs committee and other congressional
structure. I i leader in Washington to th adrnlnlstre
Carnarvon la on the Welsh coast,
forming virtually a part of St.
George'a channel, only a short dis
tance to tha south of tha point where
the channel Joins the Irish Sea.
Hears Same Day His
X i T ii ti i
liosi uromer j: ouna
And Another Dead
SIOUX FALLS, 8. D.. Jan. 30. (flpe-
clal.) James M. Nell, a Sioux Fails busl-
ness man, had the unusual experience to
lose a brother by death on the same day
that he receives word , from another
brother who had not been heard from for
a period of thirty years, and who had
long since been given up by his relatives
a dead.
Th first telegram received by Mr. Nell
told of th death In New York state of
Mr. Nell's brother David, and th second
telegram brought word of his youngest
brother. Thomaa H. Nell, who ram to
Sioux Falls with his brother Jams over
thirty years sgo. He is located In
Montana.
Th brother David who died In New
York -state served flv years in the regu-
lar army in the west under Oeneral Crook
and h was on of th detachment that
hel!d bury th soldier dead on tha Cuaw
tor battelfteld within day or two after
the massacre of General Custer snd the
greater part of hla command in Montana
on June 25, 187S.
Two Men Burned by
Powder Flare Dead
MILM1NGTON, Del
.. Jan. X Two of
d In th explosion
the Carney's Point.
th seven men burned
and powder flare at the
N. J., works of the Dul'ont Towrter com
pany.last nlKht. Uled today at th hos
pital, whUe three other ar in a serious
condition and death Is expected.
Th dead:
l.AWH'Xfi' lioi.T, r-smden,' N. J.
KHKDKRICK FITZ. ReadlnK Tm.
Not xpeeted to recover:
William Wallare. Iladley. Pa.
J. E. William, address unknown.
Fred Starling, address unknown.
The other two are only elltfhtly In
jured. Van Dyke Protests
The Seizure of Mail
NEW YORK, Jan. . An Informal
protest against th seisure of mall from i
th Holland-America Itn steamship Rot
terdam, by British authorities on th
Downs, wss filed with tha boarding of
ficer by Dr. Ilnry Van Dyka, United
States minister to The Netherlands, who
a paMenifcr alioard the steamor,
'ipun tie arrival of the veaael here to-italit.
President, in Letter to Be Read I
Before Meeting- of Teutons,
Sounds Keynote of Mil
waukee Speech.
TO PLEAD POR AMERICANISM
Executive, in Address in Wisconsin
City, Will Vit All to Stand
for V. S. First.
WILL TALK FROM HIS TRAIN
your feelings and the feelings of all
ri.BVI3l.ANI), O., Jan. 30. Presl-1 our rltUens, when 1 say that the
dent departed tonight for Milwaukee oniy thing 1 am afraid of la not be
where he plans to deliver one of his ing ready to perform my duty. I
most Important speeches of his west- am afraid of the danger of shame,
em trip. Ho Is Relieve to have I am afraid of the danger of inade
sounded the keynote of hla Mil- quacy; 1 am afraid of the danger of
waukee speech In a telegram Bent to- not being able to express the correct
dry to Senator Ollles James of Ken- character of this country, with tre
tut ky tn be rend at a meeting of Aua mendoua might and effectiveness
Irlans at New York. The telegrami ! whenever we are called upon to act
rend,: In the field of the world's affairs."
"May I not send my warmest greet
ing lo the meeting, and will you no
express of me my very deep and i
sincere confidence in the entlrt !
loyalty and pa.r.ot.sm of th. great j
body of our fellow cltlsens who have
strengthened and enriched America
by adding their energy to our own
out of the nations which have joined
their stocks to make a great Amer
ica?" Hecsuse of the large foreign born pop
ulation in Milwaukee, th president Is ex
pected to urge all Americana, no matter
where born, to stand for America first.
He will also repeat his warning that tha
I'nlted Btatea must be prepared because
1'f the uncertainty of th
i vltuatlon.
international
gneaka from Train.
land. -. Th arrangements have bean krpt
strictly nonpartisan and republican 'and
cicmocrnts have ittlned In welcoming him.
Hla demands fv)r"loord preparedn"
bav met wllh'wsrm response from hla
audlnncas. -
Advisers of th president said today that
In practically every speech h will con
tlnu to emphasise th policy that th
United States may be drawn Into th
European struggle as the reason why he
believes th army and navy ahould b
! lion a continental army plan, President
' Wilson expects to continue to support It,
giving th reaaon that th nation needs
i a trained reserve force under th author-
Ity of to federal government.
Reeelre Tare ladtaaa.
tr k.. t.i.- u .... .v.
Katlonal Guard ahould also b strength-
iencd. Dots Us of the army and navy ar
; "'"a avoiuea ny me presiaeni in nie
um-to ,h
He haa g.nersll.ed
army of at lesst
. ny saying a reserve army
X zz.?Z'i
telling his audiences that th army and
navy plan have born carefully drawn up
nd that the Judgment of th executive
should be trusted.
i With Mrs. Wilson, th president spent
j Sunday her quietly. They bad an early
j breakfast In their suit. At U o'clock
jthey motored five miles to tha Ekiolld
t Avenue Presbyterian church, where Rev.
! Aleg McGafftn, an old friend of Mr. Wll-
i son. Is the pastor. Th president's plan
: were not known In advance and only the
usual congregation of the church aaw
. him. At th request of the clergyman
' every on remained seated until Mr. and
1 Mrs. Wilson had left. This afternoon
they took a long automobile rid and! .i"""""11 ny which n w.
'spent th evening In thlr suit 'honed swollen streams inlsht be croswd
. mt t ' A nd mired roads mad. passable. No word
1 ' "-' ' m back as to Its success.
Mr Wilson received thre Indlsns in ISO on" hr8 hnew tonwht what waa go-
' h,r room tnU mornln' nd w" aiven a I ,n Ml ouw world or even as
: ,w 'nM blanket by Princess Go-wsh- ! nr Angeles. The wireless the.
h-oon,w. of th St. Be!, reserve- f0"0 of communication except by
Tork- Chief Thundering- t' lot o hsndle th busl-
waier ann i nier Laouia rviiomon stolidly
shook handa with Mr. Wllaon. They atld
, ... . . ' V
mry wanmn w meet nor nerause tney
had heard she wss dended from Poc..
hontaa
Tho president will arrive In Chicago st
S p. m. tomorrow and aft.r dining pri-
vately will address a meeting In the Audi-
torlum. Tomorrow night will be srmnt In
('hh ao and then they go to D Moines,
Kansas City and Bt. Iuls.
I --,
Lincoln Eagles to
Dedicate Building
(From a Staff Correspodent. )
LINCOLN, Jan. So. (Special.) Lincoln
Eagles have completed their fin S7S.VO
building and on next Thursday evening
will dedicate it with a bsnqtiet to which
members snd their families and friends
sr invited.
strong one and it is said that their lodge
room la th finest of any In th west.
The exercises will ba In th natur of a
banquet in which Chief Justice Andrew
Monissey of the aupreme court will aet aa
toastmaater and Governor More h aad. Sen.
a tor Matte or Nebraska City and Frank
E. Herring, qn of th grand officer will
b th principal speakers. Fire Commis
sioner Ithigell, Hotel Coramlaatonjr P. F.
Ackerman with a committee of asaislanta
hav charge of th exercises. Chaplain
On Iteechorner has charg of th re
ligious XCIClses.
PATIENCE ONLY WEAPON SO FAR !
CI.KVKl.AM). O., Jan. 30. Presi
dent Wilson (speaking, as he said,
' winr nly," wsrned tho nation last
1 .. that the time j.tay come when
hf cannot both keep the I'nlted
on "f w'r ndw '"u,n
try must be prepared to defend Itself
and be prepared at once.
"America Is not afraid of any
body," he said. " I know I reflect
I hrrrlui Tremenriona,
The president ppoke In Cleveland laat 1
nthl wlth mor, giaV,y ,,, forc, un ,
he hss shown during any of h's previous I
d.!rrc on preparedness.
'"Z'Zl
honor, the cheering waa trmendoua '
'"Let me tell you very solemnly, you
cannot postpone this thing," h declared.
"I do not know what a single day may
bring forlh. I do not wlah to leave you
with th Imprraslon that I am thinking
of some particular danger.
"l nvreiy wish to tell you that w Coronado strand Into tha sea, resl
ar dally treading amidst intricate dang- dcnt of mperlal beacht hamlet
era. The danger that w are treading .u ,, .. . ,. . A.
amongst ar. not of our own making and thrM mUB nortb of tne rlver on tn
not under our control, i think no man ; Strand, were order to flee for their
In th I'nlted rUatea knows what a single ! Uvea.
week, a single day. a slngl hour may ! rtrnorta Iste last night that the clau.1
bring forth."
Honor Dearer Tha a Peace.
Again and again th president spoke
of the nation's honor. II declared th
real man believes his honor Is dearer
than his lire and no nation's honor Is
dearer than Us peace and comfort. II
said, it had been difficult to keep th
United Btatea out of the war and felt
ha had proved he was a msn of pear
wlVn possible.
Kegret that th question hss com
up in a campaign year was xpressd
by Mr. Wilson.
"Let us forget," he said, "that this is
a year of national elections," The pre
paredness Issue, he said, should hav
nothing to do with politics.
For th TiWJt-Wm during h present
tour the president spok of the navy
and th oosat defenses, - Th latter, he
said, ar good in quality, but not In
quantity,
. "Pom people ssy that th navy ranks
second," he declared,' "but th experts
agree It ranks fourth." He added that It
should ba Increased.
Among th possible sources of danger
mentioned by tha ' president ' war th
difficulties . growing out of the protec
tion of Americana abroad and th obli
gation of the United States to maintain
th liberties of th people of th west
ern hemisphere.
Sew (Ireaaiataaee Arise.
New elrcumstJKa hav arisen, Presi
dent Wilson declared today, which make
lit absolutely nacessary that this country
!fhou,1 prepr- for dlut atlonal de-
fens.
V ar In the midst of a world that
jw f'd ot nd "n,"ot -"'."
nroal(1ent said. ' Its whole atmospheric
ana pnraicai oonamona arv in conditions
of our own llf also; and, therefore, as
your responsible servant, I must tell you
that th dangers ar Infinite and con-
stant.
"I ahould feel that I was guilty of an
unpardonabl omission If I did not go
out and tell my follow countrymen that
new circumstances hav risen which make
it adequately necessary that thla country
prepar herself for war, not for anything
for reasons not given. ' Th destroyer
Lawrnc moved down from It station
jhcre and anchored off th mouth of th
Otay river, which stream ran bank full
after being dry for years.
An overlsnd expedition also wss started
from an Diego, with pontoons snd en-
i "
11 lmoslblo even lo estimate the
l.nn..li.i. ,v k.
bauM no word from th. strlcke.
valleys conveyed sny Idea of the number
or P"ht of the ""vlvnra.
i r'" tor rirm Vtm"-
Flr"t "-eports of the Olsy dissster
! r,,ch,,d her late Thurslay. They told of
"
;
ran -n nouae wasnen away anq or rattl
nd stock drowned. Investigation ap-
eared to indicate xceDtlonally hlsh
water, and word came that the lower
iOtay dam waa holding. This dsm started
i as a reinforced concrete affair, was
changed above foundutlon I. lie to a strip
of riveted steel In concrete, as a back-
bone for a looae rock darn. Eniaring
niagaslnes throughout the country com-
inented on It and said that when th
reservoir was full the teat of th con
struction would come. Th recent rains
filled th reservoir for the first time.
Iast nilit tha flood, beating human
bodies, with a frightful amount of wreck
age, established, seemingly beyond all
doubt, the collap of th dam. From no
other source, engineers said, could this
water bav come.
Rain continues her tonight.
Russians Advance
To Tigris Valley
ATHENS (Via Paria), Jan. . Th Rue
sisns ar surrounding Erse rum, from
which city tha Turkish authorities hav
fled, acoordlng to reports reaching her.
A strong Russian column Is advancing
lo lb Tlg la vaUy, th advice said.
American Marines Ordered to OUy
Valley to Snpprtss Ghouls
While New Torrent
Rushes Down.
M0RENA DIKE THOUGHT GONE
Twenty-Nine Bodies, Some Muti-
lated, Are Assembled by
Rescue Crew.
i
DEATH LIST ABOUT SIXTY
SAN DIEOO (Via Rodlo to San
Francisco), Jan. 30. Lotting des
cribed by near Admiral William T.
Fnllam. romanding tha Pacific re
serve fleet, as "the worst I have orer
Otay valley today, while sallora and
niartnea from warships In San Diego
bay tolled to recover the bodlea of
the rtfty eatlmated victims of tha
Lower Otay reservoir flood.
At sundown twenty-nine bodies,
some mutilated, had been gathered
together. A new flood poured down
the Tlajuan river today, standing
four feet high near Its mouth which
la at the foot of San Diego bay.
0fflc,, " "
doubtedly indicated the bursting of
the Morena dam, sixty miles back
In the hills. On a chance that the
60,000,000,000 gallons of water Im
pounded by the dam would tear a
new channel for tha river across the
burst In San Luis bey and Ban Pas
qusl valleya probably cost no more than
ten llvra, rcdur-t the probahl total
death list In thla region to about sixty.
Mix rwtrttea Ideatlfled.
Of th t wen-nine bodies recovered in
the Ortey valley only six have been iden
tified. They ar:
BEX! A, CAP.LOS, employ of th Danerl
Winery.
DUUIS. John JAMISON, rancar.
Dube, Mrs. Msrgareth, his wife.
GALLIC EH, WILLIAM GEORGE, pipe
man at Lower Otay dam.
MOdTO, JOSEPH, employ Danu l
Winery.
MOST, ROSA, hla daughter.
Th Low Otay valley-waa an arm4
ramp today. - Marin and sailors f rem
th VttleWp ' Oregon and ' the - ernleer
Milwaukee and South Dakota, patrolled
all approehad and penetrated into th
valley with order to shoot looters on
sight. Bach oarrlod twenty rounds of
smmunltlon. Th marnsa under Captain
Charlea T. Westcott, Jr., camped In tha
valley. Tha sailor under Bnlng Hamil
ton O'Brien of th Milwaukee, took quar
ters in the ilttl brick school house at
Otay City. Tha United States destroyer
1j iwrenc aotd a base ship anu a hos
pital squad from th Mtlwauk oper
ated in connecton with both ship.
Japan Give Wrlf,
First news roortd ootlaps of tha
Morena dam cam through Andrew
Frvast. elty engineer of Coronado and
chief engineer of what ar known a
the Ppreckels interests In this vicinity.
Frvast, trying to resch tho Mexican
town of Tijuana today, met a Japanese
running along the bank of th Tlajuana
rlvef .
"Get back" cried tha Japanese In broken
I English. "Tell people lota water com -
j in
Ervast could ac a four-foot wav com
ing down th river. II turned hla auto
mobile and spread th warning. Oaorg-
Cromwell. ' city engineer of Fan Diego,
and othr said that nothing but th break
Ing of th Morna dam could cause
th flood.
.That th dam should go out waa gen
erally unexpected. It stood VS feet high
in a narrow gorge and waa built of
maadhry and concrete molded with iron
rods. Th top of th dam was twenty-
' five feet wide and it was braced with
loose rock on ine aown stream ski, in
roCk flit on the upper sida of th dant
, w dorrlcked and hand-placed. A wat.r
, ,uppv w arWB (rom th, be.
nln(1 lh( dam by tunnl through solid
I rork an1 wat con(lucud througl a ilttl
, ,.,pr,h,d tnto a t.rwi whloh fwi th,
tf th, OM f,t wnt
however, was down Cottonwood creek,
into uie ii juana river, w bus-
. . . tkmt - .,,, ,,,,
I '"' T JJ'S?'
hve brought today a flood, but engineers
; wt. Th. un .hona hre and fair
! wBthcr wa ,n, tn ,,mUed
with which communication was possible,
. All Ar Taraed Back.
' .
! eierai pairois turnea osck wouia-D
sightseers and adventurera who hopwl to
get Into Otay valley by Way of Coronado
' atrand and military and naval authorities
. kspt tight grip on the situation. The
ritrand Is a long spit lik like a thumb,
which forms th southern wall of Ban
Diego bay and offered to only means of
. Ingres Into th valley.
Fifty farm house, according to per
(Continued on Pag Two, Column Six )
Germans Hold All
The Ground Gained
BERLIN. Jan. .-By Wireless to Say
vtlle All th ground gained by th Ger
mans in their offenatva movements near
Neuvlll and south of th Bomm. re
ported yesterday, has been retained, it
appears from today's official statament
by army headquarter, th FreneH coas
ter attacks having been repulsed.
PARIS (VI London). Jan. KX The re
puls of two German Infantry attacks on
French Infantry near Doroprie, aoutb of
the River Somrae. was announced today,
by th war effica,
