r:^EWWwi^ r'''
The Intelligent, common sense
vorkingmen prefer to deal With the
problems of today, with which they
must contend ii they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom
pers.
s--
[Men Must Be Independent
Self Reliant to Work Out
J)estiny.
ROCKEFELLER AND FORD
OPPOSE LABOR UNIONS
American Federation Offers Me­
dium for Workers to Gain
Their Rights.
If this nation is ever to become a
nation of sheep, ready to follow
blindly a leader without question, the
surest road to travel to reach that
goal is to have its workers submit to
the paternalism of employers.
If we are to build up here a nation
of strong:, self reliant men and women
who can stand upon their own feet
,and successfully meet every condition
that confronts them the workers must
manage their own affairs, regulate
their own lives and solve their own
problems in the everyday relations of
life.
Forced to Maintain Standard.
It may be true, as some Contend,
I that it is better for the employes
working in the Ford automobile fac
tories to be forced to live according
to the standards dictated by their em­
ployer than to be allowed to follow
their own desires. In some cases, In
perhaps a large number of instances,
this employer can govern the workers
better than they can direct them-
1
selves. But, admitting the soundness
of such reasoning, it is not a demo
cratic scheme of things, and no real
1 believer in democracy caii advocate
the spread of a system that must i'n
evitably wipe out individual initiative,
I destroy the sense of personal re­
sponsibility and break the spirit of
the American worker.
Any system that creates dependents
and breeds subservient followers must
be repulsive to all persons with red
blood coursing through their veins
and imbued with republican ideals.
Democracy in action places men upon
their o-/n resources and produces a
race of independent, upstanding and
efficient people, and he who sets up
an opposite institution hinders de­
velopment and interferes with the
progress of the human race in its
[struggle up from the depths of help
jless dependency _to vigorous independ
a person Instead of being
praised as a beneficient friend of man
'.should be condemned as an enemy
of society. Such work is not weil
doing. It is positively hurtful.
If the nation must depend for its
defense, in the event of an attack by
an enemy, upon the products of pater­
nalism of this character, then it is
certain that the fond hopes of the
founders of this republic are destined
I to be blasted while tlirs- government is
still in its youth, because spoon fed
(dependents are not to be relied upon
I in the hour of trial. What a nation
needs at such a time are men who
have faced the rigors and trials of
'riife, not hothouse plants who have
.been sheltered by paternalism from
the blasts of the elements.
Oppose Organization.
If the Fords and Rockefellers are
sincere in their expressed desire to
promote the welfare of the human
race the way is open to them to do so
by withdrawing their opposition to
organization of the workers, so that
they can get within the folds of the
bona fide labor movement and work
out their own destiny in their own
way.
In the American Federation of
Labor and its affiliated unions is pre­
sented a medium through which the
workers can lift themselves to a
higher level of manhood and woman,
••hood without the necessity of leaning
on other shoulders for support. There
jis not in the world today a more ear­
nest sponsor for the virtues of self
help than this same American Feder­
ation of Labor, and there is nothing
jthat better equips men and women
(for
the duties of democratic institu­
tions than the necessity of paddling
their own canoes through the stream
of life.
CO-OPERATING
(By Osmore R. Smith.)
A co-operative company with a
capitalization of $500,000 has just
been formed by the organized farmers
and workers in Wisconsin to finance
co-operatives throughout the state
and to solve some of the problems of
the rapidly soaring cost of living.
The company is known as the In­
dustrial Co-operative Union.. It took
out articles of incorporation with the
Secretary of State at Madison in May,
Its incorporators and officers are: J.
H. Fitzgibbons, organizer of the state
union of the American Society of
Equity, president Albert C. Fuller, a
farmer of North Lake, Wis., vice
president J. J. Handley, secretary
treasurer of the Wisconsin State Fed­
eration of Labor, treasurer M. Wes­
ley Tubbs, secretary-treasurer of the
Equity society, secretary and man­
ager George E. Cummings, a dairy
farmer living in Eau Claire. Wis.
Lewis E. Gettle, a Madison lawyer
and former Progressive ipember of
the Wisconsin Legislature Charles
Steffen, former chief milk inspector
in the Milwaukee Health Department
Mexican and American Workers
Make Plea for Peaceable
Settlement.
SUGGEST COMMISSION
TO ADJUST DIFFERENCES
President Gompers and Other
A. F. Of L. Officers Sign
Appeal to Government.
WASHINGTON, July 7.—An appeal
to the government and the people of
the United States and Mexico to do
everything possible to avoid war, has
been issued by a joint committee of
officials of organized labor in the two
countries, which has been in? session
here at headquarters of the Ameri­
can Federation of Labor. It is sug­
gested that a commission of Mexi­
cans and Americans .be appointed to
adjust existing differences which are
declared due to 'misunderstandings
growing out of inadequate or incor­
rect information.*
The labor leaders announced that,
while they hoped to' hold another
conference at which the workers of
the two countries should be more
generally represented they had de­
cided to postpone it until the present
crisis had passed.
Appeal is Made.
The appeal, signed by President
Samuel Gompers, Secretary Frank
Morrison, Treasurer, John B. Lennon
and eight vice presidents of the
American federation and by C. Lovia
Baltazar Pages, L. N. Morones, S.
Gonzalo Garcia and Edmundo R.
Martinez, for .the organized workers
of Mexico," says:
"We hold this to be fundamntal:
No relations between our countries
can be permanent that are not based
on the will of the masses of the peo­
ple and in accord with their concepts
of justice. We deem it an essential
step toward democracy and justice
that there shall be established for the
masses who have hitherto been with­
out regular agencies for expressing
their views and desires, opportunities
that will enable them to have a voice
in helping to determine international
affairs.
"In joint confei'ence as the repre­
sentatives of the workers, the masses
of our respective countries,1 we urge
upon our government to adjust exist­
ing differences without war and to
establish conditions conducive to per­
manent peace with justice.
To Workers of U. S.
"We appeal to the workers and all
of the people of the United States and
of Mexico to do everything within
,their power to promote correct un­
derstanding of purpose and actions, to
prevent friction, to encourage good
will and to promote an intelligent na­
tional opinion that ultimately shall
direct relations between our countries
and shall be .a potent humanitarian
force in promoting world progress.
"Therefore we, the representatives
or the organized workers, having the
right to speak for all the workers and
in the interests of all the people,
urge upon our government the ap­
pointment of a commission to be com­
posed of high minded citizens, fully
representative of our nations to con­
sider differences that have brought
our nations to the verge of rwar and
to make such recommendations for
adjustment as shall fitly express the
highest ideals of the great rank and
file of the citizenship of our two coun­
tries."
EMPLQYERS RETRACT.
LONDON, Ontario, July 7.—At the
convention of the Master Plumbers'
association of Ontario it was acknowl­
edged that the new workmen's com­
pensation law was proving satisfac­
tory, despite former claims that it
would injure business.
Trade unionists say, "We told you
so," althpugh the workers are com­
plimenting these employers on their
frank confession that they were mis­
taken.
and an authority on dairy matters,
and a Mr. Carnahan, vice-president
of the Equity society. These men are
co-operating as individuals, not as of­
ficials of their respective organiza­
tions.
The union is to be in the nature of
a holding company, a co-operative
trust, if you please, to proinote the
growth of smaller co-operative or­
ganizations in various sections of the
state, and to keep an eye on them
once they are in operation. Already
$250,000 has been set aside for the
construction or purchase of a dis­
tributing station in Milwaukee, and
the stock is being sold in $50 shares
to farmers and industrial workers on
the installment plan.
The Milwaukee plant is to consist
of a cold storage plant and a ware­
house and will handle meats, dairy
products and probably flour. Gro­
ceries will not be handled. Deliveries
will be made at stated times during
the week from the plant direct to the
consumers.
Time Is Propitious.
"The time is ripe for such a co­
operative organization in Wisconsin,"
said J. j. Handley, treasurer. "As a
result of the activity-of the Equity
society the fdrmers generally are
Vol. 23. No. 48. DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, JULY 8,1916.
MINING INTERESTS
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REF0BM AND POLITICAL
ARE NOW
The United States Steel corporation has sowed the
wind and has reaped the whirlwind.
It has ignored the advance of civilization, the prog­
ress of humanity, and insists upon -adhering to prac­
tices which have long been outlawed in modern so­
ciety.
Nearly 45 representatives selected by the employers,
employes and the public some months ago testified be­
fore the, Commission on Industrial Relations. They
were almost .unanimous in the opinion that under
the present social system, ''collective bargaining" is
absolutely necessary.
Only two of these representatives dissented from
this view. One was a representative of the employers
and the other a representative of the Industrial Work­
ers of the World. The latter organization has no time
for collective bargaining.
In this respect,' States Steel corporation
and the Industrial Workers of the World agree, and it
is due to the fact that both organizations repudiate this
sound economic principle that the deplorable conditions
now obtain on the iron range.
Much is being said about the Industrial Workers of
the World, and most of, what is being said is untrue.
For instance, it is sought to lay the responsibility for
all that is taking place on the range at the door of this
much-maligned organization. But we adhere to the
belief, which we have oft-times expressed, that neither
the Industrial workers of the World nor any other or­
ganization would be able to to bring on a strike of such
magnitude unless there was something wrong with
working conditions.
We have said that the United States Steel corpora­
tion has sowed the wind and has reaped the whirlwind.
It has ignored human progress. It has granted a
measly raise in wages, while last year the earnings of
the corporation were reported at $130,000,000.
Had the Minnesota State Federation of Labor at­
tempted to organize the iron miners, it would have met
with the same reception from "the United States Steel
corporation officials that the Industrial Workers of the
World now receive. Likewise, the public press that
jumps when the steel trust pulls the strings would con­
demn the American Federation of Labor as they con­
demn the Industrial Workers of the World. The steel
trust would fight any attempts at organizing by a re­
sponsible labor organization ps it fights the I. W. W.,
today.
As it is they are content to condemn the "foreigners
who come over here and stir up all the trouble." Right
here let us ask a question:
Who brought these foreigners over here, and for
what purpose were they brought?
In 1907 there was a similar strike onjthe Iron Ra,jag«j.
At that time there was a responsible labor organization
supporting the strike. This organization was the Fed­
eration of Miners, now affiliated with the United Mine
Workers of America. Were not the same arguments
used in 1907 as are being used in 1916? Did not the
press condemn the Western Federation of Miners as it
condemn the Industrial Workers of the World today?
In other words can the steel corporation come to the
people of St. Louis County with clean hands? Have
they met the miners on the Iron Range half-way in this
matter? Has this giant corporation been fair with the
peopletof St. Louis County in view of the fact that they,
have opposed any kind of organization among their
workers in these times when every thinking man and
woman recognizes the necessity of some kind of organi­
zation in order to secure and maintain the common
rights of American workers?
STATE TO PROTECT INJURED.
TRENTON, N. J., July 7.—The
state department of labor has organ­
ized a workmen's compensation" aid
bureau and has opened offices in- 12
of New Jersey's principal cities, he
law provides that this bureau must
keep in close touch with the admin­
istration of the compensation law and
explain the workings and purposes of
the statnte to both employer and em­
ploye.
It is intended to give injured work-,
ers information without cost and se­
cure their benefits under the law
without the aid of lawyers.
II
MACHINISTS REDUCE HOURS.
ROCHESTER, N. Y., July7.—Ma­
chinists have compromised their
strike against the American Laundry
Machinery company. They were
working 54 hours a wek and have re­
duced this to 52% hours.
wide awake to Its possibilities. 'Never
mind us,' they tell us, 'we're with you.
Get after your Industrial workers.'
Indeed, the workers tre the more dif­
ficult problem of the two, but we are
reaching -them.
"When we have sold' $100,000 in
stock we shall probably begin opera­
tions in Milwaukee. We have our
eyes on several sites now, but are
keeping mum to prevent the real es­
tate men running up prices on us.
We'll get out-options before we talk.
The vital need is a competent man­
agement. With a man who doesn't
know marketing outside and in, fail­
ure is more than likely. But we're
going to get the right man, regardless
of his connections. We shall Insist
that, he know, the business, that's all."
"What do you figure the benefits to
the farmers and consumers will be
under your organizatidh?," I inquired.
'The benefits must work themselves
out," Handley replied. "However,
there can be no doubt that, so far as
we can eliminate the middleman and
the Board of Trade, the farmer will
profit in. better prices for his products
and the workefr in'better products at
lower costs.
"Personally, I think we shall have
to sell at the market, price. If we
didn'V-tb* bi* houses could ttndeitteU-
ADJUSTING DIFFERENCES.
POTTSVILLE,' Pa., uly. 7.—As a
result of conferences between officials
of the Mine Workers' union and the
Reading Coal and iron company sev­
eral strikes have been settled. Short
strikes have started throughout the
anthracite region since the establish­
ment of the eight-hour agreement.
The miners- insisted that wrong inter­
pretations have been placed on same.
These differences, however, are being
rapidly adjusted and the number of
work suspensions are diminishing.
PAINTERS ADVANCE.
N E W O I 7 a in
union, No. 534, has signed an agree­
ment with huilding contractors and
furniture shops for a wage scale of
$4 a day of eight hours, beginning
March 1, 1917. This is an increase
of 50 cents a day.
us and put us out of biisiness before1
we had got well started. Our idea is
that the consumer at the end of the.
steason will receive a rebate, in cash
or trade, a dividend on his purchaser
or his stock, or whatever may be de­
cided."
Want Storage Plant.
The farmers of Green County, Wis­
consin, have asked for the establish­
ment of a cold storage plant for
cheese in that country by the Indus­
trial Co-operative Union. Manager
Tubbs is conferring with thq farmers
of the country with this end in view,
and it is expected' that the desired
plant will be erected. Wisconsin is
one of the leading dairy and cheese
states of the Union, and Green county
is the cheese county of the state.. The
establishment ,of -a cheese storage
plant in the county will enable the
farmers to store their product and
dispose of it directly through the co­
operation of the uniop, without Sub­
jecting themselves to the tender
mercies of the commission dealers and
the other middlemen.
The profits of "all plants which may
be organised by 'the Industrial Co
operative Union will be prorated^ Sup­
pose, for example, that one storage
plant earns S per eeqt on. its capitally
sation. a p^ cent aad a third
THE WIN
THE WHIRLWIND
JWhen the steel corp.orat.ion can come to the people
^Minnesota with clean hands, then, "and not until
the|v will it be entitled to the ^moral support of the
peoMe of this state, and which they now seek.
Jpnd lest we forget Every manj whether he be an
Amehcan striker or whether he be one of these "for­
eigners" whom the steel trust has brought to. this coun­
try i» an attempt to keep wages'down to the b^re point
of subsistence, is entitled to some rights, and the recog­
nition and enjoyment of these rights must not be de­
nied. him, even in the beat of controversy and in the
mi|i of attempts on the part of the "kept" press to
befftp the issues and ignore the truth.
Jwe believe the Mesaba Ore puts the thing in a nut­
shell'in an editorial in that paper last week. The Ore
hasjthis to say:
''There are- none of us in sympathy with the Indus­
trial Workers of the Wqrld organization or its fanatical
leaders, but we are in sympathy with the working peo­
ple who are on strike for better wages, and we hope
there will come a turn of affairs that .will give them that
Which they deserve.
"But there is little likelihood of their ever getting
it through any undertaking inaugurated and carried on
by the Workers ranters. The history of that outfit is
one of raw grafting, misrepresentation and destruction,
to the benefit only of the agitators and self-styled labor
leaders.
"Take a look at things and you will readily under­
stand the opening left by the mining companies'for the
entrance of the Industrial Workers of the World
leeches.
"Last year the 'earnings' of the United States Steel
corporation were reported at one hundred and thirty
Million dollars (let that soak in just a moment), and
with the tidy sum safely tucked away in its capacious
jeans the corporation raised the pay of its common
laborers, the munificent sum of ten cents a day—and
the toad-eating press praised the action to the skies, but
nefer intimated that the "raise" was the direct result
of the Youngstown revolt.
"With the raise of ten cents a day in Wages came
better th^n a ten per cent increase in the cost of living
(and dying—though the mining company' gunmen have
handed out several very inexpensive doses since the
unpleasantness began), and the laborer today is worse
off than he was before the United States Steel corpora­
tion made its much-heralded "voluntary increase" in
the wage scale.
I'The corporation 'earnings' for this year will likely
beij double that of last, and yet the corporation, refuses
evjen a tithe of its great wealth to the tdan who creates
itfMthe man with nothing but his labor to sell.
/{l**The workers of the mining regions havea righteous
gnevance nrd it is pa^etiiar^i^nfortnjiiate. ihey did not
find leaders that would be in a position to present their
case fairly to the employer, and understanding^ to the
public.
"The present strike will fail because of its leader­
ship, and the Only profit will go to the skalawags that
prey, upon the ignorance and gulibility of the laborer.
With the failure of the strike the mining company slogan
will be, 'we've got you now,' and they will go on un­
molested with the grinding process that will add njil
lions to their yearly 'earnings.'
"But the sympathy of the people is with the men,
and there will come a day when they will understand
that there are labor organizations that can and will
bring them the relief they are so justly seeking. 1
"There will not be so much noise, so much high
explosive language, but the good will come to them."
WIRE MEN MAKE GAINS.
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., July 7.—
The Electrical Workers' union has
signed a five years' agreement with
employers. During the first year,
rates shall be $3 a day with an in­
crease of 25 cents per day each year
until the amount reaches $4 a day.
The present nine-hour workday will
be continued until Jan. 1, 1917, when
the eight-hour day will be established
These fine gains were made possible
because the electrical workers were
nearly 100 per cent organized.
WANT DAY OF REST.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 7.—The
Labor Council has instructed its offi­
cials to ask the Washington authori­
ties to arrange for a six-day work
week for engineers and' firemen em­
ployed at army posts and in federal
buildings in the vicinity of San Fran­
cisco.
cent profits of the two plants will be
divided equally among the three
supposing the capitalization of the
three to be the same—which .will
make 4 per cent profits for each.
The Co-operative Union was organ­
ized under a law passed by the Wis­
consin Legislature in 1911. This law,
which was the work of the Progress­
ive element in the Legislature, backed,
in this instance, by a group of aggres­
sive-Socialist assemblymen from Mil­
waukee,' is a most interesting bit of
legislation. Its scope is large.
"Any number of persons, not less
than five, may associate themselves
as a co-operative association, society,
company or exchange, for the pur­
pose of conducting any agricultural,
dairy, mercantile, mining, manufac­
turing or mechanical business on the
co-operative plan. Any association
created under the law shall have
power to conduct any agricultural,
dairy, mercantile, mining, manufac­
turing or mechanical business on the
co-Operative'plan, and may buy, sell
and deal in products of any other co­
operative'company heretofore organ,
lzed or hereafter organised under the
provisions of the law."
AliQOit Erery A^aei Olieiu ...
a .*.1*6 1-.1 -y—
,%
ESOTA
•HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
Progress of Organized Workers
Will Be Reported ,by Expert
Writers.
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
PROBLEMS DISCUSSED
—TT I
Publication Will Contain 320
Pages and Will Be Issued
Sometime In August.
.One of the most important contri­
butions to the literature of the labor
movement is a Labor Year Book pre­
pared by the Department of Labor
Research of the Rand School of So­
cial Science of New York, in co-oper­
ation with a number of noted econo­
mists, and statisticians and students
of the labor .movement.
One of the greatest needs, which
persons participating in the labor
movement, have felt for some time
is the periodic publication of a year
book recording'the progress of the
labor movement in the United States
from year to year. The Statesman's
Year Book, the American Year Book,
the World Almanac and other similar
publications oontain a great deal of
useful information and are valuable
guides for the students of the world's
prqjgjess. These publications, how­
ever, are not interested particularly,
to present in detail the progress of
the labor movement. Thty treat the
great labor events of the y3ar, if they
do at all, the san^e as they would ex­
ports and imports of commodities, etc.
Millions Are Effected.
The labor movement has grown
large enough. Millions of people are
affected every year by the different
events taking place inside and out­
side of the- labor movement. The
gfowth of labor organizations, the rd-•
suits of labor's struggles for better*1
conditions of life and work, the ac­
tivities of the legislatures' and the
courts in behalf and against the
workers, the general^ trend of social
progress,—all these should be re­
corded every year and brought to the
attention of those engaged "in' active
service in the labor movement.
To meet this dire need for intelli­
gent information concerning the labor
movement the Department of Labor
Research of the Rand School of So­
cial Science—a school devoted to the
education of workers, has undertaken
Oie pUbUcatfoii i^a^iSbor
the first of. its kirijl in the tinned
States. The progress of the Socialist,
labor and co-operative movements
here and abroad will be reviewed by
prominent authorities and _a series of
articles on important social and eco­
nomic questions will be included.
Among the subjects treated in those
articles are: "Arbitration in Labor
Disputes," "Earnings in the United
States," "Public -Education," "Labor
Legislation," "Decisions of Courts Af­
fecting labor," ''Scientific Manage­
ment," "Prison Labor," "Social In­
surance," "Concentration of Wealth,"
"Woman and CtUld Labor," etc. The
contributors include Prof. Scott Near
ing, Dr. I. M. Rubinow, Gifford Pin
chot, Morris Hillquit, Florence Kelley,
James. H. Maurer, President Pennsyl­
vania State Federation of Labor, John
R. Lawsoh, of the United Mine Work­
ers, John'P. Frey, of the International
Molders* Union, and other specialists
in different fields of social and eco­
nomic endeavor.*
Wide Interest Shown.
'The proposed publication has al­
ready attracted wide attention in
labor circles, and some of the most
prominent officials of the various
labor organizations are co-operating
to make this new venture in the labor
movement a success.
The Labor Year Book Will be pub­
lished during the month of August.
It will contain 320 pages of written
and tabular matter, and will be at­
tractively printed. That the volume
will prove indispensable to every act­
ive worker/.in the labor movement is
the belief of those who have given
time and thought to the undertaking.
The Labor Year Book will mark a
new epoch in the development of
labor literature in the United States.
avenue of industrial activity outside
the public utility field that was not
open to co-operative effort under the
provisions of this law. The. co-oper­
ators may mine coal or make shoes,
sell dry goods or toilet soaps, deal in
meats or garden, truck. Or they may
do all of them'at one and the same
time. If the producers and consum­
ers, of Wisconsin were to utilize the
possibilities to the limit, all of that
vast multitude of parasites who live
by cumbering the path of goods from
the maker to the user would either
have to seek useful wo-k or starve to
deatb.
The law guards against any at­
tempt of a capitalistically inclined in­
dividual'to use the co-operative move­
ment to gain personal wealth by a
provision that "no stockholder in any
such association shall-own'shares of
a greater aggregate, par value. than
$1,000." It is also provided that no
stockholder shall "be entitled to more
than one vote.".
"Certificates of stock shall not be
issued to any Subscriber until fully
paid" is another. requirement that
tends to make difficult any high fl
.nancinr In co-bp&ative.securities.
Klgfat fifiyit 'M''' »it—»«•»
S2|gKf"cent" fa' IhV rtrimum
TIml-working
class movement to
he most effective must be condacted
by the workers theihselves in the in­
terest of the workers. It will not
be dominated by the so-called in­
tellectuals or butters-in.—-^Gompers.
TWO CENTS.
About 400 Workers In McLean
Mines. Bisk Hunger snd
Destitution.
OWNERS BEFUSE TO MAKE
ANY KIND OF SETTLEMENT
Unjust and Degrading Conditions
Forced Upon Employes in
Illinois District.
WASHINGTON, July 7.—Edward B.
McLean, multi-millionaire resident of
Washington, is playing the role of
John D. Rockcfellerd in a situation
strangely resembling that which ex­
isted in the coal mines of "southern
Colorado before the great strike of
1913-14
Straggle Against Tyranny.
Today in the isolated Ohio river
town of Rosiclare in southern Illi­
nois, 400 miners and their families
have quit work in the lead and fluor-T
spar mines belonging to the McLean
family and are risking hunger and
destitution in a struggle against in­
dustrial tyranny.
At Washington McLean refused to
make any effort to reach a settle-!
ment when the situation was ex
plained to him by James Lord,presi­
dent of the-mining department of the
American Federation of Labor. In­
stead he permitted Colin H. Living­
stone, his banker and agent, to dis­
miss tjie men's representative with
curt defiance, and the flat statement"
that the management would, not
recognize any organization of the em­
ployes.
McLean's agents at Rosiclare are
using the company's' arbitrary power
to evict miners from company houses
and are endeavoring, thus far without
success, to enlist the courts and the
local authorities to overawe and in­
timidate their former employees.
In a statement issued at Washing­
ton James Lord, president of the min­
ing department of the American Fed­
eration of Labor, said:
"Operations at Rosiclare have been
isolated-from the rest of the state,
because Hardin county is one of the
two counties in Illinois that have rio
railroads. The miners are all native
white. Wages, hours and conditions
of labor have always been, and are
TttoW tb«LJo,wept and poorest^int jthej
American continent for this :class of,7
work. The worker in and arounffl
the mines have been inarticulate, ac-*:,
cepting without question the com-.'
panies' terms. The minimum work*
day is 10 hours.
"In addition to the low wages and
degrading conditions of work, the'
miners have been denied any civil]
and social rights that the companies.!
disapproved of. Victims of personal*
injury and preventable accidents'
have ben met with threats and in
timidation. Men were compelled to
work Sundays and holidays under the!
threat of immediate discharge, and
such things as sickness in the family,!
baptisms, family gatherings, and re
vivals have never Ibeen considered
sufficient reasons for allowing men to.
stay away from work even on Sun
day. A real system of peonage estab-1
lished years ago has been continued1
up to date.
"Contrast this situation with con­
ditions in practically every other min­
ing. town in the state, where the:
United Mine Workers, with 80,000
members, have increased wages, re­
duced accidents to the minimum, pro­
tected every man in the exercise of
his rights, and established general
good feeling and satisfaction.
Organization Necessary.
"It finally dawned upon these
workingmen that they could never be
free, to assert- their constitutional
rights or seek redress for economic
wrongs, unless they themselves or­
ganized. So in May of this year they,
began to organize into a local- miner's
union. They applied for and received:
a charter from the Western Federa-i
tion of Miners, ikhich is the branch'
Continued on Page 2.
dividend which may be declared. On
the question of apportionment of
earnings, the iaw says: "The directors
shall 'apportion the earn-,
ings by first paying dividends on the:
paid-up capital stock not exceeding^
8 per''cent per annum, then setting'
aside not less than 10 per cent of the1
net profits for a reserve fund, until'
an amount has accumulated in said
reserve fund equal to 30 per cent of
the paid-up capital stock, and 5 perj
cent thereof for an educational fundj*j
to be used in teaching co-operation.l
and the remainder of said net profits I
by uniform dividend upon the amount!
of purchases of shareholders and:
upon the wages' and salaries of em«|
ployes, and one-half ofksuch uniform!
dividend to non-sharelMders on the',
amount of their purchajg^,which may]
be credited to the acc^^t of such'
non-shareholders on account of eapi-j
tal stock of the association but In'
productive associations, such a*
creameries, canneries, elevators, fac-V:
tories, and the like, dividends shall)
be on raw materials delivered: instead!
of on goods purchased. In case the
association is both a selling and a.'
productive concern, the dividend#
nmy be^On both raw materlal
ered and on 'gbodsf mfchiiM*,
rma£
V.
•M
3
ilTlUVUPf
il delivJ-
