Itjjjlf If
VOL. LVIU. NO. 163
POPULATION 2Pj?
NORWICH,' CONN., SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1916
16 PAGES 128 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
.CV : .
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich r .ole That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
i . m , ,
STRONG 01SH
East of La Boisselle They Have Gained German
Trenches of Nearly 2,000 Yards
LULL IN FRENCH FIGHTING
' Violence of British Offensive Has Failed to Divert the Atten
tion of the Germans From Their Efforts to Capture Ver
dun The Russians Have Extended Their Offensive On
an Unprecedented Scale Italians Claim Continued
Progress for Their Offensive in the Trentino District.
The British have resumed their
sledgehammer blows against the Ger
man lines in the Somme sector and
after a day of terrific fighting- have
carried the German trenches at three
Ioiiits along the front. Latest reports
from 'British headquarters eay that
fierce fighting continues.
The Britissh gains, while not result
ing in any substantial advance, are
characterized by the British war of
fice as Important from a tactical view
point. Theii' greatest success was east
of La Boisseile, where they captured
German trenches in extent of nearly
2,000 yards and to a depth of 6(M) yards
This pain is in addition to 1,000 yards
taken by awsault Thursday nig'ht.
I The bitterest fighting of the day oc
curred on the center of the line of at
tack, about the two villages of Ovillers
and ContaJmaison. A British brigade
forced its way into Ovillers and en
gaged in a desperate struggle for pos
session of tie village.
At Contalmaison a division of the
Prussian guards was hurled into the
fight to check the British advance af
ter the viLlage had been carried by as
sault. Contalmaison was recaptured,
but TOO prisoners were left in the
hands of the British.
On the l-'r-.-nch end of the Somme
sector there was a lull in the fighting.
The French official report does not
even mention the usual artillery duels
FUNERAL OF COLONEL
C. L. F. ROBINSON TODAY
Morton F. Plant is to be One of the
Honorary Pallbearers.
Hartford. Conn., July 7. The body
of Colonel Charles L. F. Robinson, late
president of the "'o!t Patent Fire Arms
company, who died aboard his yacht
i'jvuruna some time last Wednesday
night, arrived in Hartford late today
from Newport, R. I. Funeral services
will be held tomorrow afternoon at the
Church of the Good Shepherd (Epis
copalian) and interment will be in Ce
clar Hill cemetery.
Bishop hitancey D. Brewster has
been asked to otiieiate. He will be
assisted by Rev. Dr. Samuel Hart,
dean of Bevkely Divinity school.
The honorary bearers were announc
' ed tonight as follows:
Colonel Charles M. Jarvis, Berlin;
M. Bruce Maekelvie, New York; J. B.
Moore, Dr. William D. Morgan. R. M.
Bissel. L. F. Butler, M. II. Whaples,
Former Mayor L. R. Cheney and Col
; onel W. Cjr-.Pk inner, all of Hartford:
Morton F. Plant of New London; K.
R. Babbitt and Henry Steers of New
York.
The active bearers will be the fore
men at the Colt factory and the as-
sistant superintendent and works
manager.
MISS MARGARET WARD'S DEATH
DUE TO ILLEGAL PRACTICE
Evidence to That Effect Presented to
the Grand Jury.
Boston, July 7. Evidence that the
death of Miss Margaret Ward of Pea-
body, whose body was found in an au
. tomobile in Salem last Wednesday
morning, took place in this city and
was due to illegal medical practice
was presented to the Suffolk grand
jury today. According to informa
tion from the office of District Attor
ney Joseph C. Pelletier. who is con
ducting the investigation, it is be
lieved that an operation was perform
ed upon he young woman In a house
which has been definitely located in the
central -part of the city; that she was
nfterward removed to a house on
Warren street in the Roxbury dis
trict: and that she was dead when
placed in the automobile. The inquiry
will be resumed tomorrow.
CROPS THIS YEAR
BETTER THAN AVERAGE
But in Most Cases Less Than Last
Year's Harvests.
Washington. July 7. Crops this year
are better than the average for the
five years from 1910 to 1914, but in
most cases smaller than last year's
i harvests, were predicted today by the
department of agriculture, basing its
estimates on conditions July 1.
Compared with conditions as report
ed on June 1, the crops showed mod
erate Improvement. The features of
the department's report were a fore
cast of a record-breaking tobacco crop
and announcement of a heavy year of
wheat held on farms July 1, the latter
beingr more than double the amount
usually so held.
A. G. SPALDING'S ADOPTED
SON KILLED IN ACTION
Was With the Inniskillen Fusilie
Was 25 Years Old.
New York, July 7. (Lieutenant A.
Goodwill Spalding of the Inniskillen
;i"usiliers, was killed in action July 1,
according to a cable message received
by relatruies here. Lieutenant SpaidS
ing, who was 25 years ojd, and thel
adopted, son ofrtftteOate. At. :G.?Spaiding.
was -4riB(arDBettheu3tljreata-.Q thej
IN THE SOMME SECTOR
which fill the intervals between In
fantry assaults.
The violence of the British offensive
failed, however, to divert the attention
of the . Germans from their desperate
efforts to capture Verdun. Assault af
ter assault was delivered against the
French lines in the sorely battered
Thiaumont region, but, according to
Paris, all were in vain.
Surpassing even in importance the
allies' great drive on the western front,
the news from the eastern battlefield
fchows that the Russians have extend
ed their ffoensive on an unprecedented
scale. On the whole front from Riga
to Baranovichi, a distance of about 300
miles, the Russians are being hurled
against the German lines. Farther
south, General Kaledines is driving
steadily forward toward Kovel and has
captured two villages and a railroad
station on the Samy-Kovel road. 'Mili
tary critics of the allies assert that
unless the Germans can halt the Rus
sian advance in the immediate future,
they will have to withdraw their lines
along the entire eastern front and
probably abandon Lemberg.
The German official report of Friday
admits the abandoning of a salient to
the General Kaledines, but both Ger
man and Russian official statements
fail to give a clear idea of the exact
situation in the east.
The Italians claim continued progress
for their offensive in the Trentino dis
trict, but there has apparently been no
great change in this field of the war.
SHOT AND KILLED BOY
WHILE SHOWING REVOLVER.
Middletown Youth Says He Didn't
Know Gun Was Discharged.
Middletown, Conn., July 7. Edward
Kulzner, 9 years old, was shot and
killed late here today by a revolver in
the hands of Philip Hahn, IS years old.
Hahn was examined by the coroner
and then released in custody of hie
parents to await a later hearing. Hahn
told the coroner that he did not know
how the weapon, which was an auto
matic revolver, was discharged. He
suid he had just bought it and called
the Kulzner boy over to show it to
him. While he was exhibiting it the
revolver was discharged. The bullet
passed through the young lad's body
near the heart and he died soon after
wards. FATALITIES ON RAILROADS
ARE GROWING LESS.
Excellent Showing Made for Months of
July to September, 1915.
Chicago, July 7. Railroads of the
Fnited 'States handled more traffic with
less loss of life in the July-September
quarter of 1915 than in any previous
quarter since reports were first made
in 1901, according to a bulletin issued
today by the bureau of railway news,
only 127 lives were lost in train acci
dents during the July-September quar
ter last year, the bulletin says.
The smallest total in any similar
quarter was 1S1 in 1914, when traffic
was at low ebb.
The reports include passengers, em
ployes, trespassers and others.
OBITUARY.
Rev. James F. Clarke, D. D.
Boston, July 7. News of the death
from pneumonia of Rev. James F.
Clarke, D. D., for 57 years a mission
ary of the American board of commis
sioners of foreign missions, was re
ceived here today from the American
consul general at Sofia, Bulgaria. He
was born in 1S32 and was a graduate
of Amherst college.
Death at Torrington.
Torrington, Conn., July 7. One,
death from infantile paralysis has oc
curred here, being that of a three year
old child. There is another case, but
the sufferer is recovering. Eoth cases
developed about thre weeks ago, it
was stated tonight, bu tthey were not
brought to ihe attention of the health
o"r.;a;.-, until today.
Hartford Lineman-"Fell 35 Feet.
Hartford. Conn., July 7. Andrew
Jordt of East Center street, a line
man Jn the employ of the telephone
company, fell 35 feet from a pole in
Griswoldville, today, and was fatally
hurt, his spine being fractured. He
was removed to the Hartford hospi
tal. Jordt is 39 years of age and un
married. Civilized War Possible.
A German submarine has cap
tured a British steamer and taken it
to the German base of Zeebrugge;' in
dicating that civilized methods of war
fare are not impossible, as' we have
eo often been asked to believe. .Wash
ington Herald.
Enough to Anger Them.
Since we have found out what kind
of creature Carranza is it is easy to
under stajid why eo many Mexicans
are angry 'with us for makinga ruterjj
8.AcBh Otf Ones,
Secretary McAdee sys ft"BeTlevs
the new dimes. oxiartefcsXandl halves
cabled Paragraphs
Colonel Percy Wilfred Killed.
London, July 7, 5.45 p. m. Colonel
Percy Wilfred Machell, of the border
regiment, has been killed in action in
France. His -widow is a cousin of the
German emperor,, being a daughter of
the late Prince Victor of Hohenlohe-Langenburg.
Monsignor .Locatelli Papal Nuncia to
Belgium.
Rome, July 7, via Paris, 6.50 p. m.
Official announcement was made to-
dav of the anrwintmAnt 'hv Tr...
edict of Monsignor Locatelli as papal
nuncio to Belgium.
HUGHES DEVOTED DAY
TO MEETING WOMEN
About 300 Women Workers, Most of
Whom He Had Met Before.
Bridgehampton, N. Y., July 7.
Charles E. Hughes devoted the "great
er part of today to meeting women
who will work for his election. The
nominee and his wife motored near
ly 100 ir.iles o the country rrnnle of
Mrs Harry a jyne AYhltney at R( s
lvn N V., and there received .to. tit
300 wcnier. verkers, most of whom he
hal ire be" ore.
Mr. Hughes did not address his
callers but spent the entire afternoon
discussing political issues witn va
rious groups of them. Chairman
Willccx of the national committee al
s r. held a number of conferences wit!
women leaders.
A nat'cnal organization of wo.-nen
v.-is perfected during rhe aftoinoon,
officers were elected and a plan of
canjpa;gn outlined." The ns'-v organ
ization has adopted the name "Wo
men's National Committee of ihe
Hughes Alliance."
Miss Frances A. Kellar of New
York, former head of tne social ser
vice bureau of the progressive party
was elected chairman.
The organization expects to concen
trate its e'foits on states where wo
men vote.
SUICIDED WITH ARM
AROUND WIFE'S SHOULDERS
Act of Charles E. Thompson, 19 Years
Old at Stratford.
Stratford, Conn., July 7. Charles E.
Thompson, 19 years old, shot and al
most instantly killed himself late to
night at his home here. When com
mitting the act he had his left arm
around his young wife's shoulders, as
she sat beside him wrth their four
ruinth old baby in her arms. The
wife said that domestic infelicity had
been in progress for some time.
IMPROVEMENT OF WHEAT
AND OATS, DURING JUNE
Indications Are That the Tobacco
Crop Will be a Record One.
Washington, July 7. Growing con
ditions during Jnne improved the
prospects of the wheat and oats crops.
The department of agriculture in its
July crop report today forecast the
combined crop of winter and spring
wheat at 759,000,000 bushels, which is
44,000.000 bushels more than predicted
last month and increased the estimate
of the final yield of oats to 1,317,000.
000 bushels, or 62,000,000 bushels more
than forecast in June.
A slight increase in the area planted
to corn this year was reported and
a crop of 2,866,000,000 bushels, which
with favorable conditions might ex
ceed last year's 3,055,000,000 bushel
record crop, was forecast. The con
dition of corn was reported as slight
ly better than last year on July 1, but
was about two per cent, below the
ten year average condition for July 1.
Potatoes this year are growing on a
slightly smaller acreage than last
year, but their condition indicates a
crop of 369,000,000 bushels, or 10,000,
000 bushels more than last year. In
dications are that the tobacco produc
tion will be a record one.
DANBURY HATTERS
GET $30,000 INTEREST
Upon the Savings Bank Accounts
Which Were Attached.
Danbury, Conn., July 7. Word was
received here this afternoon that the
United States circuit court of appeals
in New York city has handed down
a decision reversing a decision of
Judge Edwin S. Thomas, of the Unit
ed States district court in which he
awarded the accrued interest upon the
attached saving bank accounts of the
defendants in the Danbury hatters
case to the United Hatters of North
America.
Both the United Hatters and D. E.
Loewe - Co., plaintiffs in the case,
claimed $30,000 interest upon the de
posits vinder attachment. Judge
Thomas decided that the money
should be paid to the union. The
court of appeals holds that the in
terest is but an incident to the prin
cipal and consequently should go to
the person who is entitled to the prin
cipal. REPUBLICAN HEADQUARTERS
IN NEW YORK CITY
In New Postal Building at Fifth Ave
nue and 43d Street.
New York, July 7. "William R. Will
cox, chairma nof the republican na
tional committee, announced today
that two floors in the new Postal Life
building at Fifth avenue and Forty -third
street had been leased as cam
paign headquarters of the committee
in this city. The committee expects
to move in within ten days.
CONVENTION OF YOUNG
PEOPLE'S BAPTIST UNION
Advocates of i-ay President Plan Vic
torious in Election of Officers.
Chicago, July 7. Advocates of the
lay president plan were victorious to
day in the election of officers of the
Baptist Young People's Union of
Americal The convention of the or
ganization . elected H. B. Osgood, Chi
cago, president; G. W. Wason, New
York, recording secretary and O. O.
tVlontague, Illinois, treasurer.
Railroad 'Men Witnesses at Arbitration
Meeting.
New York, July 7. Signal and tower
men of the New York Central and
Nickel Plate railroad lines were wit
nesses tcday at the first session of the
board of arbitration appointed to set
tle the differences between the roads
and their 6,000 telegraphers. The hear
in.,witthe:resuxn.ed tomorrow.
Merely a Nuisance.
. iAppBxeatty a de yfiacto gtovernment
Infantile Paralysi
Now Widespread
RAILROADS ASKED TO DISINFECT
CARS WHICH CARRY CHILDREN.
CASE IN PROVIDENCE
Three Cases Have Been Reported from
Chicago, With One Death Dread
Disease is in Many Cities.
New Y"ork, July 7. Health authori
ties of New York decided late tonight
to abandon, for the present, at least, a
plan decided upon the afternoon to
appeal to the American Red Cross for
nurses to aid in stamping out the
scourge of infantile paralysis in this
city. Health Commissioner Emerson
said he now believed it would not be
necessary to ask for outside aid, as the
hospitals of the city have agreed to
extend their help more freely.
Some encouragement was found in
the fact that fewer cases were report
ed today than Thursday and Wednes
day. All the medical men agreed,
however, that only by unremitting
vigilance and the strict enforcement of
It is because we are so forgetful that clever men have devised
the memorandum hook and the many devices used in the daily record
systems of the business world.
The longer the period which elapses after a message to be re
membered has been conveyed to the brain, the more difficult it is for
the owner of that mind to recall the message or incident.
The treacherous quality of the human mind which causes it to
forget is one of the things which enhances the value of the morning
newspaper as an advertising medium.
The morning newspaper is delivered just before people begin their
daily activities, and the suggestions which the publication contains are
conveyed to the mind at the opportune time.
The woman is planning her shopping tour; the head of the house
is preparing to go to his place of busincs and they are ready to act.
Put your "timely business reminders" in Tho Bulletin. People
will act upon your suggestions.
During the past week the following matter has appeared in the col
umns of The Bulletin:
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
Saturday, July i... 144 17S 950 1272
Monday, July 3... 163 177 310 650
Tuesday, July 4... 155 148 175 478
Wednesday, July 5... 1 58 118 152 428
Thursday, July 6... 164 141 250 555
Friday, July 7... 183 137 209 529
Total
967
every known sanitary precaution could
the epidemic be kept within bounds.
Dr. Emerson declared that one of the
steps he had decided upon was the
prosecution of physicians who have
failed to report cases of the disease
they have attended.
Mothers Interne Children.
Another serious phase of the situa
tion was reported today by the asso
ciation for improving the condition of
the poor, which has found that in the
congested districts of the city fright
ened mothers have interned their chil
dren in their tenement houses, in many
instances with the windows closed.
Such action, it was pointed out, is sure
to have serious effects, not only on
the children, but on adults as well.
Public Libraries Ordered Closed.
Children's reading rooms in the
public libraries have been ordered
closed, and the order barring children
from moving' picture theatres will not
be modified until conditions improve.
The proposal for a general quaran
tine of the city was abandoned by Dr.
Emerson as impractical.
EIGHT NEW CASES INFANTILE
PARALYSIS IN NEW YORK STATE
Railroads Warned to Disinfect Cars
Which Carry Children.
Albany, N. Y., July 7. Eight new
cases of infantile paralysis in sections
of the state outside of Greater New
York were reported to the state health
department up to noon today. This
brings the total number of cases out
side of New York up to 45.
The department today sent letters
to presidents of all railroads in the
state requesting that especial care be
taken in disinfecting all cars that car
ry children from New York.
11 Cases at Springfield, III.
Springfield, Ills., July 7. Two more
cases of infantile paralysis were re
ported to the state board of health
today, bringing the total number of
cases in the state to 11. Three cases
have been reported from Chicago. One
death has resulted.
Three Cases in New Bedford.
New Bedford, Mass., July 7. The
board of health announced today that
three cases in infantile paralysis had
been found here. At least one case,
the authorities said, had developed
since the outbreak in New York.
Has Hit Montreal.
Montreal, July 7. The epidemic of
infantile paralysis hit Montreal today,
nve cases being re.ported in the last
24 hours. City authorities have start
ed a campaign to keep the disease
from gaining a foothold.
First Case at Terre Haute.
Terre Haute, Ind, July 7. The first
case of infantile paralysis in this city
was reported today by Dr. W. F. Rob
erts, county heaith officer. A small
child was stricken in a small mining
town near here.
Disease- Develops at' Bacon, :.ti. Y,
To Train Recruits
at Army Posts
MOBILIZATION CAMPS ARE TO BE
DISCONTINUED.
U. S. ARMY OFFICERS
Fort Wright, Fishers Island, One of
the Places Designated A Fort in
Narragansett Bay to be Selected.
New York, July 7. Mobilization
camps in most of the 22 states of the
department of the east will be dis
continued, it was announced tonight
at divisional headquarters, Governor's
Isiand, as soon as the last national
Suard organization called out by the
president has departed for the border.
"With the closing of the camp, re
el uts will be trained at army posts
already designated, according to an
order issued today by Major General
Leonard Wood.
It was found that the contemplated
plan of maintaining the state camps
for training recruits would enforce the
absence of scores of regular army and
national guard officers from their bor-
899 2046 3912
der commands. Under the new plan
the recruits will be trained by the reg
ular army officers stationed at the
posts.
Army Posts Designated.
Thearmy posts designated for New
England and New Pork are:
Maine A fore in Portland harbor,
still to be designated.
New Hampshire Fort Constitution,
Portsmouth.
Vermont Fort Ethan Allen.
Massachusetts A fort in Boston
harbor, still to be designated.
Rhode Island A fort in Narragan
sett bay, still to be designated.
Connecticut Fort II. G. Wright,
Fishers Island.
New York Infantry recruits at Fort
Hamilton; recruits for all other
branches of the service at Fort Tot
ten. Massachusets Choice First.
The plan may be put into actual op
eration in Massachusetts, where the
2,060 recruits remaining in the state
camp have been ordered to leave Mon
day to join their commands on the
Mexican frontier. An order was is
sued today requiring all recruits in
New York state armories to move to
Camp Whitman, where they will re
main untii the last organized unit
leaves, after which they w'ill be trans
ferred to the army posts.
General Wood said tonight depend
ents of national guardsmen have flood
ed him with letters and telegrams re
questing him to discharge guardsmen
as a result of the recent war depart
ment order. He said he wished it
emphasized that soldiers with depend
ents cannot be discharged by the
commanding officer of tne department
until the request is first made by the
soldier, with corroborating evidence.
today, making a total of five cases and
three deaths.
Quarantine at Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh, July 7. A case of in
fantile paralysis was reported to the
health department today and orders
were immediately issued establishing
a close quarantine. It is the first case
this year, although thirteen were list
ed in 1915.
Seven Cases in Rhode Island.
Providence, R. I., July 7. The first
case of infantile paralysis reported in
this city in two years was discovered
today. A child in a family which
recently came from Brooklyn, was de
clared to be suffering from this dis
ease and two other children were tin
der observation. Seven cases have
been reported in this state up to date.
Lowell Child Stricken.
I-owell, Mass., July 7. A' case of in
fantile paralysis was reported today,
the patient being a girl whose fam
ily has been here two years.
Boston Has One Case.
Boston, July 7. Only one case oi
infantile paralysis has been reported
since July 1 in the eastern health dis
trict of this state, according to Dr.
Merrill E. Champion, of Wollaston,
Who is in. charge of the. district. That
case " was reported -in - this . ciiyv on.
Condensed Telegrams
June traffic on the Chicago railways
Co. increased 20 per cent.
Petroleum production in Russia in
1915 amounted to 69,000,000 barrels.
Two large porpoises were sighted
off the Eureka baths. Coney Island.
Fire in the downtown business dis
trict of Pittsburgh caused damage of
$200,000.
The bodies of eight victims of the
Carrizal fight were found buried in
one grave.
Lumber production on the Pacific
Coast is reported at about 25 per cent
below normal.
The War Department gave approv
al of Kanawha City, W. Va., as a mob
ilization point.
Squadron A and the first Squadron
of the First cavalry left New York
for the border.
A despatch from Washington says
that Hughes will shortly declare fot
woman suffrage.
About 3,000 rookies form the July
regiments in the training camps at
Pittsburgh, N. Y.
Bodies of three Boy Scouts drowned
in Silver Lake, near Rochester, N.
Y., were recovered.
Russia has placed an order for
SO, 000 tons of rails with the American
Steel Export Co.
A secret conference of delegates of
trade unions in allied countries was
held in Leeds, England.
The United States has ordered a
total of 2S additional aeroplanes for
use on the Mexican border.
Hearing on Sir Roger Casement's
appeal was set for July 15. Five
judges will hear the argument.
Thirty-five cents a pound is report
ed to have been paid in Montana for
a clip of 30,000 pounds of wool.
Ten Harvard students will begin
a course in aviation at the Curtiss
School at Buffalo, next Monday.
After 20 years of service, Charles
A. Farwell resigned as president of the
American Can Growers' Association.
Contributions of $235 from Brooklyn
and $15 from Manhattan were received
by the New Y'ork City "conscience
fund."
At the request of Minister of Mu
nitions Llyod George Scottish miners
have agreed to postpone all their u!y
holidays.
A lobster with a spotted peacock
blue shell was taken to the State
Hatchery at Noank by a Long Island
fisherman.
About 3,00 railroad section hands of
the Southern Pacific Railroad have re
ceived a voluntary wage increase of
25 cents a day.
All New York state employes serving
with the militia will receive their pay
regularly eyes, though substitutes be
put in their places.
The Silver Jubilee Convention of the
Baptist Young People's Union of
America opened at Chicago, with 10,
000 delegates present.
Commissioner of Correction Lewis
will endeavor to raise a regiment of
New York prison inmates should a
-call for volunteers be issued.
Gold coin to the amount of $400,
000 was withdrawn from the Sub
Treasury for shipment to Cuba, and
$100,000 for shipment to Spain.
Miss Mary Ahrens, aged 18, was
killed when the automobile in which
she was riding was struck by a fast
Wabash train at Martinsburg, Mo.
Peter Casages, 14 years old, was
drowned while swimmig in the Con
necticut River at Thompsonville late
yesterday. The body wras recovered.
Mrs. Peter J. Nordstrom of Hart
ford, Conn., died at the Hartford hos
pital yesterday of poison, self ad
ministered. She had been ill previ
ously. After a quarrel over money mat
ters, Sam and Frank Sorci, brothers,
engaged in a pistol duel at San Jose,
California The former was fatally
wounded.
Bringing 534 passengers, the steamer
Nieuw Amsterdam arrived at New
York. She reported having had 309
bags of mail taken off by the British
at Kirkwall.
Erastus Terwilliger, ;66 years old,
of Bridgeport, Conn., committed su
icide yesterday morning by inhaling
gas. He was formerly a resident of
Plainville, Conn.
The Corn Exchange Bank, one of
the largest banks of New York city,
having numerous branches, applied for
and was granted membership in the
federal reserve system.
Establishment of an aerial coast pa
trol system in connection with the
naval militia for education and train
ing of aviators was proposed in a bill
introduced by Senator Johnson.
Forty-eight hours overdue, the
coast guard cutter Itasca, carrying
midshipmen from the naval academy,
arrived at Havana. She was delayed
by a hurricane in the Carribean sea.
Abraham Weinstein, a iunk dealer
of New Haven, suffered a badly
bruised face and probable fracture of
the skull yesterday when thrown from
his wagon as a rear wheel broke in
Bridgeport.
President Wilson and Governor
Ferguson of Texas will be asked to ad
dress a public meeting at Dallas, Tex.,
by representatives of the four railroad
brotherhoods, who will discuss a gen
eral strike.
A decree of annulment of marriage
was granted at Grand Rapids, Mich.,
to Mrs. Clara L. P. Waite, wife of Dr.
A. W. Waite, under sentence of death
in Sing Sing for murdering Mrs.
Waite's father.
Second New York Starts for Border.
Camp Whitman, Greenhaven, N. Y.,
July 7. The Second New York got
awiiy this evening for the Mexican
border. .The .troops are destined fori
WAIT SUGGESTION
As to How Diplomatic Interchanges Are to be Con
ducted to Settle Differences .
STATE DEP'T FORMS INFORMAL CONFERENCES;
Secretary Lansing Has Sent to Mexico a Communication Ex
pressing Gratitude Over the Turn Affairs Between the
Two Governments Has Taken Laid Stress on Desira
ability of Giving Quick and Practical Consideration to'
the Immediate Conditions Along the Border Which Have i
Been a Source of Controversy Carranza Reports That
Villa Has Recovered From Wounds De Facto Presidents
Shows Disposition to Cooperate With United States.
Washington, July 7. Inception of the
diplomatic conversations which it is
hoped will result in a settlement of
differences between the United States
and the de facto government of Mexico
awaited tonight a suggestion from
General Carranra as to how they
should proceed. State department offi
cials believe more can be accomplished
through informal conferences between
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
and Frank L. Polk, act
ing secretary of state, than by a more
formal interchange of views. They are
willing to accede, however, to some
other plan should the de facto gov
ernment propose it.
Friendly Note Sent to Mexico.
Mr. Arredondo transmitted to his
government today a brief and friendly
note handed to him by Secretary Lan
sing expressing gratification over the
turn affairs between the two govern
ments have "taken and accepting pro
posals for diplomatic settlement of
points in dispute. The communication
was approved by the cabinet before it
was sent to the Mexican embassy.
Officials noted that Secretary Lan
sing laid stress on the desirability of
giving quick and practical considera
tion to the immediate conditions along
the border whic'h have been a source of
controversy.
Evidence of Carranza's Friendly Atti
tude. Additional evidence of the more
friendly attitude of the Carranza gov
ernment came to3ayjn the.. f Qxm . of .a
warning communicated by Mr. Arre
dondo to the state department, at the
direction of General Carranza, in con
nection with the battle toetweea Villa
and Carranza forces at Corralitos. The
message admitted a serious defeat for
the Carranza troops and asked that
the American forces be cautioned to
exercise unusual vigilance along the
border, particularly in the Big Bend
region in Texas, as there was reason
to 'believe the bandits were headed that
way to precipitate a new border inci
dent. The message was promptly for
TARGET PRACTICE EFFICIENCY
OF UNITED STATES NAVY
Records Sent to the Senate by Secre
tary Daniels.
Washington, July 7. Secretary Dan
iels sent to the senate today in re
sponse to a resolution by Senator
Lodge a report on target practice effi
ciency of the Atlantic and Pacific
fleets in 1915-16. The secretary ex
plained that the grades given in the
report were established by Admiral
Mayo for the purpose of bringing to
the attention of the individual ships
the general character of their work
and his estimate of their proficiency.
Battleships of the Atlantic fleet were
graded as follows:
Kxcellent Arkansas, Georgia, New
York and Texas.
Good 'Delaware, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island and Wyoming.
Fair Nebraska and New Jersey.
Unsatisfactory Louisiana, South
Carolina and Utah.
Poor Florida, Kansas, Michigan
and Virginia.
The performance of the armored
ships of the Pacific fleet, the cruiser
San Diego was rated as excellent.
No comment was made on the re
port when it reached the senate, where
it was referred to the naval affairs
committee.
MILLIONS OF DAMAGE
BY GULF STORM.
Great Anxiety is Felt For Crews of
Small Vessels.
New Orleans, Lr July 7. Reports
tonight from the storm-swept Gulf
states, though bring news of property
damage that may total millions of
dollars, established definitely only one
death, that of an engineer killed at
Bond, Miss., when his train ran into
a washout. A report from Beloit,
Ala., that 17 negroes were killed there
Thursday was denied today and a dis
patch from Selma, Ala., reporting three
or four deaths at Mobile, lacked con
firmation. More than $4,000,000 damage was
doiin in Mississippi and Alabama
alone, according to estimates tonight.
Mississippi suffered crop damage es
timated at $2,000,000. The loss to
lumber interests in Alabama and Mis
sissippi is put 'at about $1,000,000; to
telegraph and telephone companies
$300,000; to railroads $200,000, and to
coast cities nearly $1,000,000. Frag
mentary news from Pensacola report
ed great damage was done on the wa
terfront and to shipping.
The greatest anxiety is felt for the
crews of small vessels known to have
been in the Gulf when the hurricane
broke.
Survived by 100 Descendants.
Waterbury, Conn., July 7. Mrs.
Philip Dugtijy, aged 77. who died here
yesterday at the home of a daught
er, is survived by 100 descendants.
There are eleven children, seventy
granchildren and nineteen great
grandchildren.
Movements of Steamships.
Cadiz, June 30. Sailed: Steamer
Buenos Aires, New Yorw.
Naples, July L Sailed: Steamer
FROM CARRANZA
warded to General Funston as a mat- j
ter of information.
Villa Recovers from Wounds.
At the same time the state depart-;
ment received a report from an Amer-!
ican in Mexico that he had seen andj
talked with Villa personally near Cor- ,
ralitos a few days before the fight re- i
ported in the Carranza message. The !
bandit leader was said to have entirely j
recovered from wounds received at :
Columbus, except that he used a cane :
and walked with a slight limp. j
This message, the source of which j
was not revealed, added that Villa had i
been continuously in the Corralitas re- j
gion since the American pursuit was i
halted by the clash at Parral, the first:
outbreak of hostility against General'
Pershing's expedition by Carranza sol- i
diers. Corralitos is a short distance i
southeast of Parral.
Carranza's Message of Warning.
If Villa is alive and has recovered j
sufficiently to lead a new force toward j
the border, considerable detachments
of Carranza troops are between hisi
present position and the most advanced j
American patrols. General Carranza's
message of warning gave assurances i
that every effort would 'be made byi
these forces to capture or destroy the j
band. . j
Indication of Co-operation.
Officials were pleased at the indlca- I
tion that General Carranza was dis- j
posed to seek co-operation in protect- j
ing- the border. They saw in thel
warning, however, a frank admission j
that bandits still are active in con- j
siderable force in the territory over'
which the de facto government re-1
peatedly has claimed complete mili- J
tary control. 1
Mr. Arredondo reiterated tonight his i
belief that Villa is dead. The de facto i
government has received no definite I
news of Villa for more than three ;
months, he said.
The state department received in-;
formation today that many Americans j
who hastened lo the border or the sea-
coast when the crisis seemed grave al- i
ready are returning to the interior of
Mexico. 1
"WAR VULTURES" .
ARE TO BE FEARED j
David Starr Jordan of Leland Stan-j
ford University So Asserts.
New York, July 7. The danger of
war with Mexico is not half so great
as the danger American peace and
prosperity has to fearfrom "war vul
tures",said David Starr Jordan, chan
cellor emeritus of Leland Stanford
University in an address today before
several hundred delegates to the an
nual meeting of the American School
Peace League, held in connection with
the National Education Association's
annual convention.
"This graver peril," said Dr. Jor
dan, "is brought about by those who
would like to force the United States
into war. War has for one of its
leading causes exploitation. It back
fires always on true democracy. We
must educate our people against the
dangers that threaten from 'war vul
tures.' "
Dr. Jordan declared, "It would be
the crime of all ages" for the United
States to intervene in Mexico. He
attacked the "war propagandists" and
insisted that the most recent trouble
from border raids was instigated sole
ly by "tools" of American and Eng
lish capitalists, engaged in a "nefari
ous and despicable plot to embroil the
two countries."
Dr. Jordan made the direct charge
that the plans for the Columbus, N.
M., raid and other raids were known
in El Paso, Texas and Douglas, Ariz.,
two days before their actual occur
rence and "had it not been for the
propagandists being partly successful
in their murderous work, New York
state troops would not now toe suffer
ing on the sunbaked plains of Texas."
"Mexico has within herself the pow
er of regeneration," continued Dr.
Jordan. He termed Villa a "wild, un
tamed Indian, the prize, tool of the
American "war vultures." Carranza,
he said, if left alone in the present
crisis "gives every promise of becom
ing the savior of his people."
ADMIRAL CAPERTON IN
COMMAND OF PACIFIC FLEET
Succeeds Admiral Winslow, Who 'Re- !
tires on Account of Age. '?
i "" )
Washington, July 7. Rear Admiral j
W. B. Caperton, now commanding the;
cruiser squadron in Haiti and Santo :
Dominican waters, was selected to
succeed Admiral Winslow as comman- j
der of the Pacific fleet when the lat-
ter retires July 29 on account of age.
Rear Admiral Caperton will be sue- (
ceeded by Rear Admiral Pond, now
commanding the auxiliary division of j
the Atlantic fleet.
In announcing the selection, Secre
tary Daniels said he had not eonsid-
ered the question of seniority and had ;
decided to name Admiral Caperton on :
account of his "valuable and satis
factory service in Haiti and Santo Do
mingo and his efficient record as a
high executive officer."
William C. Calhoun Stricken. !
Chicago, July 7. William ' C. Cal
houn, former minister to China, was
taka to a hospital suffering from a
stroke of paralysis. Physicians av '.
bi condition js serious. J
