gHw. -tv --" -bk tw
I
ilrtujer
NIGHT
EXTRA
euenmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. n. NO. 255
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JULY 8, 101G.
Conatanr, 1916, bt mi Fcsuo Loan Commiit.
PRICE ONE CENT
m
E
h(-
!
r
tJ
FRENCH TROOPS
EXTEND GROUND
ON SOME LINE
Gain Positions Near Belloy-,en-Santerre
and Around
' Estrees
STORMS HINDER FIGHTING
British Artillery Hammers Teu
tons North of Ancre
River
King George "Proud"
of Ills Army's Success
LONDON, July 8. Tho following
message Jias been sent by King
George to General Sir Douglti3 Ilnig,
commander of tho British troops on
tho Franco-Belgian front:
"Plcaso convoy to the army under
your command my sincere congratu
lations on tho result achieved in tho
recent fighting. I nm proud of my
troops. None could have fought
more bravely."
General Haig, In reply, Batd:
"All ranks' will do their utmost to
continuo to deserve your Majesty's
confidence nnd praise."
Tho superoiTonsivo of tho Allied
.. armies entered its second week today
with tho Allies evorywhero attacking
. nnd maintaining their early gains at
virtually every point, despite heavy
enemy counter-attacks.
A heavy downpour of rain through
out yesterday afternoon converted tho
battleground on both sides of tho
Sommo into a great sea of mud last
night nnd seriously hampered opera
tions. Despite this handicap the
.French War Office today claimed' slight
further progress south of tho Sommc,
with the taking of 400 prisoners.
The British troops north of tho
Sommo, after scoring important suc
cesses against the Germans in yester
day's fighting, contented themselves
last night with improving their posi
tions. Tho fighting at tho villago of
Contalmaison reached a deadlock dur
ing tho night with the British holding
tho western end nnd tho Germans tho
eastern part of the ruined town.
No official estimates of 'cither tho
German or British losses' KaVe been
made by tho War Office sinco tho of
fensive began at 7:30 o'clock last Sat
urday morning, but the Ge'rmans are
unofficially reported to have lost from
80,000 to 40,000 in killed -and wounded,
besides nearly 20,000 taken prisoners
Jay tho British and French. Special dis
patches from Paris today reported that
5000 Prussian guardsmen, tho flower
of tho Kaiser's army, were killed in tho
early days of the fighting, but this may
be an exaggeration.
General Haig's report this afternoon
announced minor engagements on tho
British front extending northward from
Ancre Brook.
At Gommmercourt, the scene of heavy
fighting at tho opening of the Allied
drivef British fjeld guns and trench
mortars bombarded enemy trenches
last night. Near Nouville-St. Vaast,
north of Arras, and north of Roolin
court, tho Germans were active yester
' ' day. They exploded a mine northeast
of Neuville without causing any dam
age and exploded craters near the
Hohenzollern redoubt with no ndvan--v
tage. Northeast of Hulluch a British
mjne .destroyed an enemy gallery.
British aeroplanes gave valuable
service yesterday, despite tho unfavor
able weather. They aided in Important
reconnaissance work and completely
wrecked an enemy hangar, besides .do
ing other materia) damago.
FRENCH GAIN IN BKLLOY
SECTOR; WIN GROUND IN
VICINITY OF ESTREES
PARIS, July .
Two vigorous thrusts netted the French
. further progress last night In tho fighting
"- on the Sommo River front,
In the sector ofBelloy-en-Santerre the
Continued oa Face Two. Column Six
THE WEATHER
It's hard to keep one's mind from drifting
to wooded dells And silent, shaded Btreams
these days. Every one seems Imbued with
but one ambition; to escape the sun. While
the men are puffing and perspiring over the
matter, along comes fait woman (a sum
mer furs, which look cool because of their
color. This bears out the belief that much
can be done through imagination. It 'is
very evident that many of the fair sex
decide that they are cool regardless of the
temperature and, therefore, they feel so. If
you are growling- about the heat, the sun,
your Job or scarcity of money, all this is
unnecessary and means useless expenditure
of energy. So keep cool even when you're
warm, and you won't get hot.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and probably Sunday; some
what cooler and leas humid; moderate
northerly winds.
JLOSSC AND POUND
BAR PIN Lot. gold bar pin. safety ctcn, set
with 3 round sapphire, la elttlnx room of
Oknbeb', about 12 o'clock Friday, July 7.
Finder return to S B Ojtrom. 4111 Baltimore
ave . and receive reward.
BROOCH Lett, going from Narberth to 13th
and Chtiitnut. via Uroad St. Station, a round
ahaped diamond and appnlrebroocn. )QU re-
wara ic rvunwi " ouif, &nx
Kiddle Co.
ItlNQ Lo4t. In central section of city man'
platlniua ring, diamond, oyer 8 carat Ure
reward. M CJU, Ledger Central T
tU-Voat, Fifday gold bair pin. marked wftM
InltlaU E I O Reward If rttunwd, to 18$
yraalcUn at MerchantyUleJ J
bu ClauuUd AJO jjtsUl - JJ
MANAGER
WlWpu-
" v'
' . x
Hero wo have tho new manager of
arc, left to right, Joo OhI, secretary;
out
ORDER IN COUNCIL
TIGHTENS BRITISH
BLOCKADE OF FOE
Supersedes Previous Orders
Made Under Declaration
of London
Stricter on neutrals
LONDON-, July 8. An order In council
was Issued today withdrawing nlLyrcccdlng
ordora mado under tljo Declaration of Lon
don and Issued since tho war began. This
action was taken In nccordanco with Eng
land's determination to tighten tho-Wockajlo
cf Germany.
The new order In council stipulates that
tho hostile destination of any ship carrying
contraband of war li presumed until tho
contrary Is shown. This stipulation permits
British warsfilpi to hold up suspected nou
tral ships, which must thon offer proof that
their cargoes aro not ultimately destined fcr
enemy countries to nvold solzuro.
Tho prlnclplo of continuous voyage and
ultlmato destination will apply sto contra
band In ships passing tho blockade. Any
vessel Is Uablo to capture and condemnation
by a prlzo court If Its cargo Is moro thjfn
half contraband.
Any neutral ship, carrying contraband,
but which eades capturo by showing pa
pers indicating a neutral destination and
then proceeds to an enemy port, will be
llablo to capturo on her next voyage In tho
proscribed area.
It Is significant that this action on the
part of tho British Government comes
closely on tho heels of mo request or sug
gestion mado by Berlin In tho last note
to tho .United States on tho U-boat issue
that the blockade be loosened.
Bill Would Punish News Fakers
WASHINGTON, July 8 Publication of
falsa reports and rumors affecting Inter
national relations of tho United States by
any news association would bo made
criminal by a bill Introduced In tho House
by Representative Campbell, of Kansas.
Violators of the law would be subject to a
line of not more than 5000 and of Imprison
ment not toAexceedslx months.
THREE DIE IN AUTO
CRASH AT CROSSING
Train Hits Car Containing Seven
on Way to Reunion
at Topton
BOYEUTOWN, Pa., July 8. Three per
sona were killed today In a collision between
theueen of the Valley, an express train,
between Reading and AHentown. and a tour
ing car containing several passengers on
way to the Rohrbdch reunion at Topton.
The automoblllsts were crossing the tracks
at Hancqck Station.
WHllam Noll, Abraham Yoder and Peter
Rohrbach were hurled into the air and
killed.
Mrs. Rohrbach, Mrs. Yoder, Alice Rohr
rach and Aaron Yoder, also occupants ot
the" cart escaped serious Injury,
Court to Review Contempt Ruling
T'RENTON, July 8. Supreme Court Jus
tice Rlack today allowed an order to re
view a decision by Recorder GaskilU of
Atlantic City, holdlag Samuel W. Scott
at that resort In contempt for having
passed an alleged derogatory remark Out
aide qf court Scott was fined $100.
Five-year Term for Auto Driver .
TR.ENTON, July 8 Edward Qlllmore,
a negro driver for a. local coal Ann, has
beeu sentenced to a term of from five to
ten years' imprisonment for manslaughter.
Qlllmore was driver of an automobile which
ran down and killed Michael QelciL' IS
year old.
Second New York Off to Texas
GREEN HAVEN. N Y.. July 8. The d
New York Infantry repreeentlmr nine cities
ana towns. In tho State, left Ute yesterday
fW &flons, Tex. The 68th Regiment, of
&MT JvOs, ts, H ravo hu( Twsday. ,
McINNIS AND SOME
-y v
"' X
.J
V
iw'.'v.
'.AMwMlAwtwtt VwnJ SiLi.AVM
tho Athletics, John Mclnnis, along with a trio of his hired men. The men
Mclnnis, McElweo, Lawry and "Witt. Connie Mack and Harry Davis are
of tho city, hence Stuffy is the leader.
CARRANZA FORCE
IN FIERCE BATTLE
WITH VILLA BAND
2000 of First Chiefs Cavalry
Engage 800 of. Ban
dit's Men
JUAREZ MAKES REPORT
EL PASO, Texan, July 8 A terrific
battle between 800 Villistns and 2000
arranza cavalry is in progress a short
distance south of Jimlncz. Tho battle
began early this morning.
I'hat information was officially given
nt noon today by General Francisco
Gonzales, commandant of the Juarez
.garrison.
The Villistas arc commanded by Gen
eral Calixto Contreras, according to
Mexican authorities.
General Contreras rejoined Villa's
command within the past week or two,
according to American reports. Car
ranza officials, however, believe the
General is leading an army of inde
pendents. General Gonzales said word of Con
treras activities had reached do facto
Government officials some time ago and
it was on this information that the 2000
cavalrymen were sent to the Jimlncz
district. .
RL PASO, Tex., July 8. "Pancho" Vil
la's return to the border at the head of a
new horde of wild riders was awaited all
along the International boundary line today.
Citizens nnd soldiers, particularly the Na
tional Guard soldiers, were ready to give
him an appropriate reception.
At the same tlmo It was reported -that
General Pershing's punitive expedition,
which was for the purpose of Betting, Villa
"dead or nllve," would rosumo Its quest.
With Villa located, his trail again seems
to bo "hot," nnd Pershing la said to have
him to reverse the withdrawing movement
and renew the hunt.
Carranza'a attltudo toward the punitive
requested that the Administration allow
, Continued on rare Four, Column Three
HOT? ITIS NOTHING
TO WHAT'S COMING,"
SAYS WEATHERMAN
Humidity Takes Leap From 4fr to
63 and Will Make Other '
Jumps, Asserts
Expert
AGED MAN SUCCUMBS
Ups and Downs of Mercury
Shown Today and Yesterday
Today Yesterday
Midnight , 74 75
1 a. m..., 72 73
2 a. m ,. 71 71
3 a. m. ..,.,.. 70 69
4 a.-m, 70 ' 68
5 a. m... '...,... 70 68
a 8i m 72 72
7 a, m, .,.,.,... 74 76
8 a. m...,,..,.. 76 79
9 a. m 80 82
10 a. ra.,,.,..... 84 84
11 a. m.,,. ,,,,., 86 86
Humidity ...,.,. 68 43
Heat caused the death today of Charles
Van Lew, a painter, 65 years old, of 2 4 St
North Cleveland avenue. He was found
dead In bed by members of his family.
Doctor Benedict, of 503 North Uth street,
was summoned and said death had.reaujt&d
from natural causes, superinduced by heat
No prostrations were reported up to noon.
Despite the fatality. Forecaster Bliss said
the heat was a delusion.
fc Speaking seriously, na vald It really
UNDERSTUDIES
Hfcr"'
.A A N fcSXvftvA
)
STUFFY M'INNIS
NOW IS BATTING
FOR HIS BOSS
Connie Mack and Harry
DaVis Are Off for a Day on
"Boy Scout" Duty
TIGERS TO FACE NABORS
Stuffy Mclnnis Is a manager for a day.
Connie Mack nnd Harry Davis are away on
a scouting expedition where, no ono knows
nnd "Stuff" Is pliich-bosslng tho Athletics.
Jack, who Is out of tho gamo with a Char-loy-horso
and a sore nose, will coach the
toam a la Connlo Mack, nnd he vanta to
mako nn even bet that ho will be a 1.000
per cent bench manager.
Tho Mafckmcn wero hustled through d
spirited workout this morning, nnd, after
looking his men oer, Mclnnis said: "I am
sure WE will win today," JuBt like a regu
lar manager. Stuffy hopes to break up the
team's losing Btreak so that he can hand
Hughcy Jennings nn Idea of his managerial
ability, even though h& Is not flrst-basclng
himself. If Stuffy does happen to go
through with a win what a nice, big surprise
It would be for the fans, the Tigers, and,
greatest of all, for Connlo Mack.
Pitchers Drlscoll nnd Whlttaker, who
have been members of the White Elephnnta
for tho latt two days, aro no longer on the
long, thin payroll. Mack decided that he
would farm tho youngsters out, but they
decided differently. Both of the boys went
home.
Whlttaker Is a dentist' and intends to
follow that profession. His stay in fast base
ball company appeared to make him realize
that there wero other things than the na
tional pastime.
JacklNabors will hurl for the Mnckmen
against Detroit today.
Will Court-Martial Guards
COLUMBUS. N. M July 8. Twd of
the four New Mexican guardsmen who re
fused to take tho Federal onth several days
ago, will be tried by a general court-martial
at Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio. The
others will, In all probability, be tried at
Columbus.
PERSHING'S LONE AIR
CRAFT NOW DISABLED
Twelve Aeroplanes Lying Idle at
Border Be'cause of De
fective Works
COLUMBUS, N. M., July 8 Cleneral
Pershing today was again forced to rely
upon cavah-y patrols for reconnaissances
around his advanced base, Yesterday the
single aeroplane with the expedition was
put out of commission, A propeller blade
went to pieces during a scouting flight by
Lieutenant Christy and an observer, but
the two men brought the machine down
safely,
At the Columbus base camp 13 aeroplanes
havo been lying idle for two months for
lack of propellers. A rush shipment of the
special blades required Is en route.
The discovery that military information
was reaching the Mexicans through ln,dis
.crlmlnate photographing here caused the
placing of a strict censorship on pictures.
Forecast of a long stay for guardsmen
on the border jyas seen in preparations at
tho camp of the 2dMassa6husetts Infantry
here. Engineers started, drilling welU to
furnish the camp with a water supply.
Four New Municipal Employes
Two appointments were made today in the
Bureau of Transit and two in the Bureau of
Water. Director Twining named Mandex
G older, of 3223 Arlington street, to be a
division engineer at 32400. and O. Theodora
Blswanger, of 6621 North 13th street, to bo
an architectural engineer at 12000- In the
Bureau of Water the appointees were Sam
uel Evermao. 1ST Maryland street, an engi
neer at 3.1009. ucd. William I Congar 5351
U ray's vue, s foreman of painters at
flQOOt
QUICK
WEST VIRGINIA REGIMENT DEMOBILIZED
CHARLESTON, W V,n., July 8. Oi'dcrs were issued today for
the demobilization of the, 1st Regiment, West Viiginta Nntlonnl
Qunul, encamped near heie. The Uoops wero told to lcturu to theli
home station not Inter than Monday night. The older tnmc ns a com
plete surmise. Kqulptnent for the 2d Regiment was received from
the War Department today. The 3d Battalion of this unit will- Lo
tedeialized late today.
CUTTER ORDERED TO SEEK BOATS REPORTED LOST
VT.SHIITGTOX, July 13 Coast. Guai d hcmlnuaiteis here today
urdcieil the cutler Tallapooso at Mobile to piocecd immediately to
search the Gulf of Mexico for boats that nic lcpoitcd lost.
NEWTOWN SQUARE WOMAN OVERCOME BY HEAT
, Mrs. Elizabeth Hosklns. G6 years old, of Newtown Squnfc, Ta.,
was overcome at 40th and Matket streets this afteuiooii and was
taken to tho Presbyterian Hospital suffering from hent piostiation.
Her condition is sctlous.
WOMAN ACCUSED OF SILK THEFT FROM EMPLOYERS
A woman earning $G0 a week as a shirtwaist designer was held
under $500 bail today charged with stealing silk from her employers,
Epstein Biolheib, of 715 Aich street. Tho defendant is Miss Laura
Williams. SHo lives on Thompson bticct, west of 22d. She dcTiled
tho chaigc. ,
U. S. TO AID NEW YORK FIGHT INFANTILE PARALYSIS
WASHINGTON, July 8. A tesolution placing nt the disposal of
tho health authorities of New York city all of the available hospital
space and facilities at the Ellis Island Immigration Station for treat
ment of Infantile paralysis patients was Introduced In the House to
day by Representative Siegel of New York. The resolution has the
approval of the Secretary of Labor; who has jurisdiction over the im
migration station. The Houso leaders planned, to put the measutc
through heforo the House adjourns tonight. It is understood that
tho New York health officials contemplate establishment of an Isloa
tion hospitnl at Ellis Island.
plan to ratify Colombia treaty advanced
WASHINGTON, July 8. Efforts of tile Administration to havo tho Senate of
this Congress ratify the Colombian treaty havo been abandoned. That was ljarned
today nrter a meeting of tho Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Tho treaty as
recommended In its final form, providing paymon of 315,000,000 to Colombia nnd a
mutual "regret clause" In connection with acquisition of the Canal Zone, has met
with serious objection in Colombia and this, with threats of a Republican filibuster
against tho convention, has prompted Democratic leaders to givo up plans to force
Us ratification.
GERMAN MERCHANTMEN ATTACKED BY SUBMARINE
BERLIN, July 8. The following official account of an attack 'upon Gorman
merchant ships in the Baltic by a submarine, which gave no warning, was issued
by the Admiralty: "A convoy of nino German trade ships bound to Swinemuende
was attacked south of the Island of Oeland without previous warning by a submerged
submarine on July 2. The wake of tho submarine was plainly visible, also two
strong whirlpools caused by the firing of the torpedo, Fortunately 'the torpedo
passed between tho ships and did no damage. Armed patrol boats Immediately
made' for the spot where the submarine had been and chased It. Tho merchant
ships reached Swinemuende safely."
EXPERIMENTS ON MONKEYS IN INFANT PLAGUE FIGHT
WASHINGTON, July 8. So that monkeys may be Imported for experimental
purposes In the search for a remedy for Infantile paralysis. Secretary of Agricul
ture Houston today raised the embargo on the importation of animals from the
Philippines.
MOTORISTS URGED TO HAVE GASOLINE MEASURED
John VIrdin, superintendent of the Bureau of Weights and Measures, has issued
u ptatement wcrning motorists to bewaro of dealers who pump gasoline directly
into the tapk of an automobile. "Every purchaser should Insist upon the gasoline
b"lng pumped Into a standard five-gallon liquid measure so that he may see
whether ho la getting what ho pays for," he asserts. Mr. VIrdin points out that
tho measuring pump crank can be so manipulated by the person In charge that a
shot tage will result in eeiy subdivision of the gallon pumped directly Into the
tank of the automobile,
v RED CROSS WANTS FORTY MALE NURSES
Forty men aro wanted to enlist as male nurses in the Southeastern Division of
.tho Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Red Gross. Miss N, M. Rennyson, In
charge of the r.iut Aid Classes of the organization, sent out an urgent call-today.
"Tho men will bo called upon to do the field work in case of war, and we want
them fully prepared and equipped with all the knowledge of their subjects that we
.q Impart to them," said Miss Rennyson.
GERMAN ADMIRALTY CALLS JELLICOE REPORT FALSE
BERLIN, July 8, The Admiralty Issued a brief official statement today In com
ment upon Admiral Jellicoe's version of the North Sea battle. It reiterates that
previous admissions of German losses are correct and that any further claims by
the British naval chief of the destruction of German ships are false. "The Jelllcoe
report," said the Cologne Volkieltung, "la specially prepared for home consumption.
His first report was considered unsuitable for the masses. Despite the proud
window-dressing, we can't say It bears the proud conviction of victory. Trans
lated Into everyday language, what Jelllcoe really says Is, 'This battle was a
British defeat.' "
GERMAN COMMISSION TO UNIFY PEA,CE AIMS
BERLIN, July 8. Numerous telen lists, industrialists and representatives of
commerce and agriculture have formed a German national commission, under the
chairmanship of Prtnce von Wedel, cays the Koelnlsche Zeltung, with the aim of
"awakening a uniform understanding of the German people for an honorable
ooncAision of peace which hall guarantee 4 seoured future empire.' In doing
this, my the newspaper, alj one-sadness la to pn avoided,
NEWS
AUSTRIAN ARMY
RETIRES BEFORE
CZAR'S FORCES
Russians PierceGerman
Lines Southwest of
Vilna
SLAV ARMY SWEEPS
TOWARD LEMBERG
Austro-Gei'mans Unable to
Resist Tremencjous On
slaught of Czar's Forces
BOY-SOLDIERS CAPTURED
Heavy Artillery Saves Von Lin-''
singen's Volhynia Army From
Complete Annihilation
Four powerful offensive movements
ore being carried out by the Russinns
against tho German nnd Austro-Hun-garlnn
nrmlc's in Russia nnd Galicia.
Tho four districts against which tho
Russian nssaults aro bcing delivered
arc:
First Between Riga nnd Dvinsk.
Second. Nortli and south of tho Im
portant . railway junction of Barano
vichi. '
Third. Between the Pripet marshes
and Lutsk, where the Germans aro
striving to hold back the Russians from
tho base city of Kovel.
Fourth. In central Galicia, 'south of
the Dniester River, where tho Russians,
who captured Kolomen, are sweeping
in a northwesterly direction.
The Austro-Germnn armies are in re
treat almost everywhere, hotly pursued
by the Russinns. In Volhynia, only
their heavy artillery has saved tho
German forces under Generaljron Lin
singen from completo annihilation.
There are evidences on every hand V
that Germany has exhausted nil her K
available reserves and that it is possl-'
ble no longer for her to make sudden
shifts of troops from ono theatre of
war to the other.
Many of the prisoners captured in
the recent fighting are boys with scant
military training. ,
The Russian offensive has now been
under way for more than three weeks
and instead of lessening the vigor of
the drive it is increasing.
Terrible losses have been suffered by
the Austro-Hungarian and German
armies, particularly from the Russian
artillery fire, which has battered down
the strongest defensive works of the
Teutons.
VIENNA ANNOUNCES FURTHER
RETIREMENT OF AUSTRIAN
FORCES ALONG STYR RIVER
BERLIN, July 8. Austrian troops have
retreated from their advanced lines In the
bend pf tho River Btyr in Volhynia beforo
greatly superior Russian forces, said an
official statement from the Austrian War
Office received here today.
"Austrian troops fighting In the River Styr
bend, who, during four weeks have opposed
hostile forces of from three to five fold
superiority, on -Thursday received orders to
withdraw their most advanced lines, which
were exposed to double outflanking-," said
the Austrian statement. "With the co-op-cratlon
of the German troops west of Kolkl
and by the heroic action of the Polish legion
near Koloda, the movement was executed
undisturbed by the enemy. South of Kolkl
there has been no change. Thursday passed
quietly with the Austrian troops northeast
of Baranovitcht. The enemy there Buffered
extraordinary losses In attacks against the
Austro-German positions.
"In the district of Ikva Springs enemy
artillery 'shelled an Austrian field hospital.
though It was plainly visible. Jf such
breaches of international law are repeated
we shall direct our cannons against the
monastery of Novopeczaye, which haa been
spared most carefully by our gunners for a
year.
"In Bukowina our troops brought in 609
prisoners In successful engagements. In
southeast Galicia, between Delatyn and
Sadcovka, numerous Russian attacks were
defeated by Alpine territorials?'
The German War Office, however, an
nounced this afternoon that repeated enemy
attackb In the Lake Narocz region and at
Russian attack northwest of Buczacz, In
Galicia, were repulsed.
NEWTREMENDQUS OFFENSIVE
. OPENED BY RUSSIANS AGAINST
GERMAN LINES EAST OF VILNA
LONPON, July 8. The Russians hav
ntiAned a. tremendous nffrmsIvA Brain.
Vlcld Marshal von Hlndenburga forces on
the northern front.- General Evert Is lead
ing the" Ciar"s troops in furious attacks ex
tending a hundred roues,, froru, the Vilas,
line, in tho north to Baranovichi In the
south.
Fieceding their infantry assaults by a.
bombardment of such Intensity during IU
24 hours' duration that the Germans were
stunned, the Russians, hurled thsmstlves at
the enemy's lines in such overpowering
numbers that the first line trenchea w
penetrated with ease.
The Germs.) Midlers who recovered froaa
the knock of the aaaault quickly enough id
Offer even - half.b.eam4 mlatanc wertl
swept as 1 iS.t tte point of the baycot 111
jpiitlij mi r Vtm, C.lma ibi
i
4
1
J
Ml
