Fair to-day ; to-morrow unsettled, prob
ably showers; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterdaySg; lowest, 67.
Pciulled weather, nuUI and nvminu reports on rage It.
tin.
IT SHINES FOrV ALL
one cent "nirr.or.",.. ItST.
VOL. LXXXI1I. NO. 312.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1916. CopVrlghl. 191'i, by the Sun I'rMUxg ami l'UUM .lMO.fnll.rn,
FIGHT TO STOP
PARALYSIS NOW
IS NATIONWIDE
gix U. S. Experts Here
AW Local Battle on
Epidemic.
to
TEN STAT MS REPORT
, TASKS: JIOItK FEARED
Tracinpr of Carriers to Re
Pushed in Effort to Con
trol Disease.
I
SnisKS AND DOCTORS
FA It BELOW DEMAND
Appeal to Red Cross Hoped
to Fill Haps and Provide
Ambulances.
..... . , ,
P. germs of Infantile jiaralysls did ,
more deadly work than ever yesterday !
among liable. They attacked not only
..... .. . , ... ,., ,..
eighty-seven more ehlldieti In this city
and Killed twenty-two. making a total time trn will made. The petition
number of 797 eases ami 157 dcitl'-s In ' al.o rets forth that the will "was pro
In rty. li.it they alTectod babl.'s In 1 rlm''' b- importunities, persuasion-, mis
, ' .. . . ,, ... repieentatlons and undue Infiuenccs
ten oilier States outside of New ork. ,,ract.,i UT,JM the said John It. Mo
arid also In .Montreal. A ituurantlne Lean at a time when he wns enfeehled
ng.i.'net children VumltiK from New York In body and mind."
l . , , ,,,, Mr. McLean left the Income of the en-
fcas been declared ill never..! fciatcs. tn, (c thc who ,1(JW 1(s ,hc
Tiie Health I "epartnient. tneWltiB the t.ax,.at to break It. The document pro-
l.e t problem In many enrs, sought ' iiled that upon the death of the .-on the
t expand Its facilities to iujw with the ittlnclp.il should ro to his .hildren ami
Hu.ition.
Tliu t'ulted States l'ublle
llealth Service Is endlliK six xperts lit tate shotll.l ro to Kdwuid llet.le Mi -klp
III the tUlit, and It Is hoped thc Lean's heirs at law.
Ameilciin Ued Cross to-day will lend lt.i i in any cae thc sum of $100,000 each
aid in furnlshlns nurses, doctors and . left to the chlldfin when they reach
imhulanres. I liie :Ke of S.i years, on additional 5100.-
Thtre Is a desperate need for morn 000 when they reach 30 and an additional
tiuries and doctors and automobiles. $100,000 when they reach 3f. ears.
Health Commissioner liaxcu i:miisou The will gave l'rancls T. Homer, a
made that point emphatically clear last Italtlmofe lawjer. wide authority as
nlKht after ho had called a conference counsel for the estate, dlrcctlne the
of eiithteen experts, IncliidltiR specialists American Security and Trust Company.
In baby diseases, bacterloloKibts ami sail-1 the executor, to consult Mr. Homer In
Itary in-pectors, to discuss the situation retard to nil matteiH, and providiiiK an
nd to develop plans for nichtlUK tli epl. .
demic. He told the leporters thc task
of New York lay not only In stamping
cut the disease In this city, but also III
preventing carrlen of the germs from
moving from New lork to other placea.
Mi.ii In Aid Cleniillliea.
1 n aiifwer to pleas from l'r. Kmerson
etbiT organiratlons of a charitable or
philanthropic nature offered their ser
vices to loinbat the plngjc. The Charity
irganlzatlon Society and the Society f ir
liv.iroving the Condition of the Poor 1
adopted emergency measures for helping
the work of cleanliness among the poor,
oi gallic fuither aid In thc homes of the
1 1 ae.l if carrying Into effect the Im
pel'. nit t -ipiest of Coinlssloner Kmerson,
h, i no I'llld bo peimlted to play with
o I her chilil.
I i t il- absence or scientific data as to
tin -it', 'ii' which the germs originate
und . in Ji. y arc transmitted, the health
im li .lit. deem It of thc utmost Im-
!'... t i keep children as clean as
!!- ''i nnd to lMdato them. At the
tmrie time, the Commissioner liolnted
out n I- liii.-slble for adult persons who
lime tended ill babies to Infect well
ha Im .-
In ,io problem of detecting carriers
' ' semis and In preventing the
spread of the disease by the exodus from
.v iv v.jrk of children or their parents,
tn. H-..lth Department will have the
tin Hi tul aid of the Federal Public
Health Service. The Importance of this
I'li.iso of the work was explained last
latin by Commissioner Kmersjn. He
said ac had directed the Issuance of
MmmonscH for two doctors who had at
tended one rhlld that has infantile
piral si- and sunimon.ej for the parenti
f'( in child spirited out of the city.
Mil-i It.-port All Cases.
The Commls-loner pointed to cet!oriH
' ind x7 f the Sanitary Code, which
1'ioviiie- that physicians und citizens
niul iciort at oucej to the Health De
partment every case of Infantile paral
)tl" He said that this had not been
dune, in certain Instances.
"J have Jut been Informed by the
fi.ilth authorities In Albany," said he,
"of a baby In New York that was nf-
cictui with the dleease. The child was
"'te nted by one doctor and then wa
take . to New Jersey. After a short
t.n e a was brought back to this city,
reniud the attention of another doctor
mid tlim was taken to Albany. It Is
kanl hy the authorities In Albany that
this is the only case that has been dis
covered there and they feel much In
ter, veil,
"The other case Is that of a child that
ai apparently stricken with the dls-
This caso was reported to the
lli'ilth Department, but there was some
de'i in sewllr.g an ambulance', and
li'ii the department's, doctor arrived
tin' hlld was gone. The parents le
f'lK'd to say where tho baby had been
taken
Now In view of the rapidity with
h h the disease call be spread It Is
clear how gre.it a danger lies In tills
failure to report cases und give us an
Wpurtunlty to attend to the proper
Mini. itlon and to segregate the patients,"
i iinmlssloner limerson explained that
he had promised all health authorities
ii! only In this Htnto but In other States
notify them at once of the departure
from this city of any stricken babies or
their immediate iclallves, He Is hav
1'iK. a thorough study made, so far as
pounble, of the surroundings of each
'.mi.)) whete iuCiinlilu pnialysls 1ms
o "Hired. His aim lu to ferret out the
turners and their source.
When I'. 8, Aid Will Come.
Muth or thin Held work will he done
hy the Federal Public Health Service.
That bureau will have charge of Iraolng
(roin State to State families or persons
whofe relatives have been afflicted with
thn disease, Dr. Kmerson received a
tib'sTJiu from Dr. Olennon, acting Sur
gcoii.Oeneral. saying:
Cooperation reijuested In your
telegram will be Immediately fur-nichi-d,
l.avlndor will bo senior of
. rrie officers detailed. Five other
officers directed to report to him fur
Continue- o fourth Fag ,
AND NEW YORK
' ' ' " - i i .. I .. ! i - m.mi - -. ' " ' ' " " " ' ' ' ' ' ' 1
M
22 Deaths in Day;
Total Sb Far, 187
New Total New Total
cusi'n. cases, d'hs. d'hs.
Hrooklyn.. . . (10 (537 111 ITiO
.Munhnttan.. 13
Richmond... 8
Bronx 3
Queens 3
IMS
41
5
18
1
Gr. total.. 87 707 22 187
SUIT FILED TO BREAK
I R. M'LEAN'S WILL!
!
i i
.Sou Declines Father Wns Not!
of .Sound Mind When He
Executed It.
Washington, July T. IMward Heale
McLean ftlcil In the District Supreme
Court to-day a suit to break the will
of his father, .luhti H. McLean, who was
owner nnd publisher of the Washington
'oaf and the Cincinnati Knquirrr. Tho
estate In valued at between $16,000,000
and $20,000,000.
Voting Mr. Mel.ean has retained Kilhn
Hoot ami John II. St.mchfleld of Now York
:imI evtT,x Washington attorneys. The
caveat to the will recites that "the
testator wns not of sound and dtspos-
tie m ml, nor cap-ilno of making or ex-
.,,, s', n. rnn.r,-. , ,h.
l lie I r I'vlt. i hi vitmiiTii it ntf
.h, time of their father's death the cs-
annual Income of Sio.onii fornix worK
ei... ............ A i..irllu. In li'irtb.lll.ir
cannotfbc disposed of without Mr. Homer's
consfilt. Mr. Homer handled much of
Mr. McLean's business when the .pub
l.sher was living and was a close filend.
89 ON YEAR'S HOTTEST DAY.
Thnt's I he Wliltrlmll lleeoril.
nil rf'l II Win II-.
Iml
In the region Just n few stories below
the empyrean where the Weather Hu-
rcati has Its 'ometers. the temperature
at 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon was S9,
hntlest moment or tnc n.ioy summer.
Moio than 400 feet below this breezy
altitude atop of the Whitehall Hulldlng
ttie warmth was more ardent, some sldi-
walk mercury pencils pointing to
Light humidity made the heat bearable
to most folks, but some were prostrated,
There were hotter towns oltlclally. In-
eluding Hoston. Philadelphia und Louls-
vllle. all with a record of 90 It will be
rar to-day, the forecasters say. ami we
I may have showers to-morrow.
THIEF CAME AS GUEST?
Man Who Took Tnylnr JrT-l Mnjr
Ilnvr Ueen Visitor.
(mwuk.sci:, L. I.. July 7 Detective
Investigating the theft of Jewehy valued
at JR. 000 from Miss Dorothy Keene
Taylor, granddaughter of .James It.
Keene. have decided that tho thief posed
as a guest at a card party hist night
In the home of Miss Taylor's mother.
The detectives have iiue-tlotii'd a maid,
who said that Just before Miss Taylor
went tn her room after midnight she
caw a well dressed man, tall and well
built, pass through the ball on the
Hr-t Hour. Thc maid thought he was a
guest who wantid lo smoke on the lawn.
Foxhall Keene, uncle of Miss Taylor,
was In the cardroom when the thief left
by the front entrance, The articles
lost were a diamond and ruby ring; two
solltalro diamond rings worth Jt.OOO
each ; a pair of diamond earrings, a
gold watch, a Pin with three sapphires
and threo peails, a brooch with a dia
mond and six jic.ii Is and a pair of coral
curlings.
CONSTITUTION A WASTE STUDY.
nr. Balllet of Xrw York t'nlvrr
lly C'tincl II Klrcllv-.
"The study of thc Constitution of the
United Stated Ih a waste of time" said
Dr. Thomas M. Ilalllet, dean of the
school of pedagogy, New York Univer
sity, before tho department of higher
education of the National Kducatlon As
soelatlon at Teachers College, Columbia
University yeatcrday.
lie Ilalllet was discussing the elective
svKiem. Following his remark about
the Constitution, he said:
"Most of our jiolltleal problems rest
,, Koeloloiilcal and economic basis.
Hence all high school pupils should be
required to study economics and socl
..tnirv ns a. fit for citizenship. Yet these
subjects are iiiwuh riecuvo mm mo
rarely taught In high schools. All high
.nimni nunlls should bo rcuulred to study
the problems of public health and other
city problems, arm 10 uora u mumo m
ethics."
OSS IN ING LACKS A JAIL.
Penitentiary Town Has o Local
Offenders
n-uiviN-o. July 7. This town, the scat
of Hint? Hlng-, has. no prison of Its own.
and it Is now discovered that a jirlsoner
locked up in tne lucai j.ui 101- one imm
two weeks H(fo wns Incarcerated In vio
lation of law. The State Prison Com
mission, meeting at Hlng Slnit to-day,
found this peculiar state of affairs, hav
inir irnvlnuslv condemned the local Jail
as unsanitary, nnd ordered the pollco to
confine go moro prisoners tnere.
Chief of Pollco .1, W, Tompkins Is In
nioiiidnrv. At present prisoners are do
mined In the rourtroom over nlsht, hut
the women employees onject. ino vir
I lags trustee recently voted down a pro -
IpOMl to aP-Bd 136,000 (Of clU
AMERICAN CAN CO.
WINS ON PROBATION
S. Court Ifcfuscs In (S ni lit
Motion foe Its Dis
solution. TO TEST COlil'OHATIOX
Still Leaves lfooin for (iovcrn
nipnt to Prove
Cu.se.
IS.M.Tl.Mom:. July 7. Jndi;e John t.
lto"e In the I'nlttd States District Court
sussifil a final decree to-day in the liov
eiumiut's nntl-t rn.-t suit i.Kalnst the
American Can Company. He refu-ej the
motion of tho (lovcrnment to dlsMilvel
the. company and also dismissed the tic-. jirand said that Oilmen cars aso
fendutit' motion for dismissal of the . Inherited $30,000. but lost It tlnanclmt
,1 hotel In St. IaiuIs. Ho attended the
The decision, furthermore, permits the I'nUersity of MIchlKan and l'rlnccton
defendant to remain In btulness provld-1 TheoloRlcat Seminary, lie said. It was
ed It does not use Its size and powe r to his duty to preach, and do nothing else,
monopollzo the industry to the Injury of be asserted, although he spoke of his
the public. J deep affection for tils children.
The (lovernment's motion, which Judire , The children are Horace. 13 ears;
I!oe denied to-day. was Hied after his Allen. II. both of whom were sent to St.
opinion rendered February 23 last, which , Christopher's Home nt Hobbs Kerry, and
expressed the view that although the 1 Kutli. n. ami Adelaide, t, who were sent
Can company might have been an II- to the I'rot.atant lllg Sisters,
legal growth It 1i.ul be.-otne a bit of per- Mr iirand told Justice Mayo she np
feeted Industrial nnchlnery with which ' proved of her husband's Ideals and plans,
tho court wa loath to Interfere unless
the Un eminent demanded dlsoltitlon. . ,,
H- announced nt that time that he would
retain Jurisdiction.
The original petition, tllid here about Xlexlcnii's Iteimrt IILbi-lle veil,
two years ago, charged the Americ.r. 1 .. ....
Can Company and It- olllcers with ah- Howrtcr llerrrrn In I'.ir.oU.
sorblng competitors and can making ma-1 I'msius'ii's IlEAtigfAHTKlis IN Mkxico,
ehlnery concerns, rlxlng prices and drlv-1 July 6. Villa's body has been cremated
Ing independent nialiufactur. rs out of the ' t,j frit nils in the mountains of Chihua
tleld. hua. according to a Mexlein arrHIng
In addition to the patent concern mil
the pubsldlary eorpnnillons. Includiiir
the American Sheet and Tin l'late Com-
Patty unci the Hawaiian Pineapple Com-
pany of Honolulu, theie were twenty-
seven Individuals Included In the suit.
The t'iio Mill Open.
Judo Koto slated that lie will rt-ttilii
Jurisdiction In t'm case and permit the
van company m lomir.iie as u is tunes-,
oy us union ti injme- tiic public ami
makes neeetsary a decree of dissolution.
ll. lii dec-cc Judge Hose Kald y "The
den.al of the iloveriinunl'H motion Is
without prejudice to the I'nlted States
hereafter to show In this murt bj evi
dence of facts occurring at any tiiin
fulisciiueiit to Hie tiling of the original
pititlon In thl- caui-c tha: the sUe and
power of the defendant company arc
being used to the Injuiv of t.ic public, nr
that such size and powei, without being
Intentionally o used, liave given tin- ib-j
leuiiani a iioaunaiion or comioi over ine
in selling Industry or over some por-1
, Hon of the Industry so great as to make,
d.swdutlou or other retraining decree
exoedlent. anil Without lueflldlce to the
risht of tin- court to decree a dissolution
of the defendant cnnoian.v or to giant the
t 'lilted Stnles Mich relief as may be tik-lit
and Just."
Cioveriiiueoi lo Appeal.
Washinuto.v, Julv 7 Assistant At-'
torney-Heni ral Todd, who has charge
nenl. and if It Is held to be not n llnal
,l...e..d It.. C'rt. ... .......... ..-Ill u,.l. .. U'rll 1
of mandamus to compel tho lower court
to Mb- a final decree.
"Jtldse lloe ailuiltted that the Can
cr.mpmy was organized as a combina
tion lu restraint of trade, but In lo-dav'4
decree refused lo dissolve the company
or dismiss the case. After determining''
anlred as an
Illegal combination the i,uestlon arising
Is whether It lis cased to be In
restraint of trade. The court
parently was not thoroughly convlnc d
that It liad ceased to be.
LONG BEACH BARS FURS.
Frnr of liifaollle Pnriil la ll er -
I I
lis'ii flK.veit, I.. 1., July 7 -l'.eoin-e of
the scare over the epidemic of infantile
paialysl. In
In .Se-w oik no furs will be
permitted In Long Head, this summer.
The edict of fashion must give way tn
the order of the Hoard of Tru-tce-
At a meeting of the board to-night It
WiiH decided to enforce a ban on flit-.
On the recommendation or Dr. T. M i
lohnvon, Health CommlsMnr.rr, li w is
igieed lo assign special olllcers lu Ilie
hnililwnlk and the beach, whose duty It
will be to see that Women do not weal
furs.
I'he hoard uUo look measures to en
force the law regarding the burning of
garbage and the muzzling of dogs.
BOYS SOON TIRE OF CAMP.
Quarantine Hum Visitors, n Fifty
Set Out fur I Ionic.
Frederick K. Ixuiir. secretin. i of the
National School Ciinip Assis-latlon, said
last night fifty of the nun boys who
went Into camp at Foil Hamilton on
Saturday have quit, All were home
sick. Under tho quarantine rules visit
ora to Ilie, camp urn forbidden, but the
boys are at liberty to go to their homed
for good nt any time If weary of camp
life. The remaining IMi youngsters are
having thc time of their lives.
A mother called at tho camp yester
day and took away tier two sons. It
was learned that there tiro two eases
of Infantile paralysis on the block
where she lives und tho camp authori
ties thought alio mndii n mlstnkc.
BOY OF 12 CARNEGIE SPEAKER.
Tell n,000 School Hardener of
I'hnrai'trr lliilldlnu.
For fifteen minutes last night l-hnest
Sclone. 12 years old, stood on Ilie stage
of Carnegie Hall and told an audience
of 3.000 nbout the health und character
building benefits of gardening.
The Imy'H self-possession wns his best
argument. Young Selono came to New
Vork from Dayton, Ohio, only yester
day, but not for ono Instant did hn srcin
111 nt ease.
Cesare's cartoons now appear dally In Tin
1 Nfw York
'r-U-..
'k Evening root usiiy c, oi. sc.
of antl-trust prosecution-, to-night de-' .Morris (ioiiistcln. '!.. West f irty-tliirn ,!lvi,rlimellt .which Is In a position to at lome " iia-ic ic
clared the Hovernniciit would appeal -trcet. who said that as he was K"ln: )e.,st keep track of the movvm-nt of any m' Mllburn js present at the polo ,,, , vail
from Judge lio-.-'s decision in Haiti- eas toward the bridge the steering gear con,(eru',,,, ,M,y f Villa follower- and P,, "Sy bu l . daged o the ' . h u n,l" t t KM, f M, he
more to-day in the Can rase. broke and be was jiovvcrlins to pi event L,,00(,ly forward such Information to j I Wh lis lujurle- re no ivrloi h ! Z ,7 j 1 ,1 ' . M,,d " w.m he
"if the Supreme Court holds this to the collision Washington. Carranza'., vvilllngt.es- to Jf,; x,,- i fSl ai..l will KV l" Slryiu " Th.- iH-.tv "iai? Incl..a
he a final deciee." he said, "we can ap- ,n I b - us evidenced bv i s reiiort to- m.h ... 1 " r ' )''' V".," ' ' .
RATHER PRAY THAN
i MAINTAIN FAMILY
Allen I). Ilraiid's Four Chil
dren Sent lo Homes After
Court llenriu.
The libelous feivor of Allen D.
Itnuiil, too gri'.it to permit him to de
vote timr to making .i iivi..K f.-r iiis HA XI) ITS IM'SIIIXG NORTH
fatnlly. runnel .luMfiv Majo hi I no
t'lilMKMiV t'uurt lrily to Ink- nway I
i. I'.. f....m .l.il.l ..I,. I ti-.l..r llintll '
lutiiiMn iimii (.iiiiiii vii nii'i ........
will to Institutions.
When Miss Wheeler, agent
of the
Children's society, niiil Dr. K. II. Hue. j
pastor of the Thirty-fifth Slrcet Metlm-
dlst Church, found Uriind with his wire
.tint children at I3;i West Thirty-sixth
stleet conditions were such they tinted'
the rlilldrett to court. They told Jus
tice Mayo )esterda that the family
livid In two rooms destitute of furnl
tine , that soap lions were used for
chairs and that Hie children hud to
study under the hall llclit. All sbpt on
boards, and Ilraud, although a man of
Bood education, refused to work, pre-fcrrltu-
to lit. on evniii?,.llsl.
VliXA lttWAlu, nt, SAX-.
i
at t10 lieaibiuarters of the I'nlted States
expedition to-day. He asserts he was I
evewliness of ilie ceremony
Little eredt nee Is placed In the report,
as it Is believed Carranza would have
I oiriclally declared this to be the cause
1 ,"r "le Immediate withdrawal of the ex-
ipidltlon If the news were authentic. A
I ,!( tallvtt stor says the cremation was
curled out by a secret society of which
Vil'a wa- a member.
Another r
report places Villa near l're--
nlllo. he having been hiding In C.icatHC.is
State recovering from the wound received
at CtUirrcro. He is also said to hae
invaded Torreon with 1,500 men, shoot
ling up stores and retiring with supplies.
TRUCK WRECKS LIMOUSINE.
Mrs.
Wnrreii lliiii-fiiril mill fiue-H
S.vt-r-l SlinUen 1 p.
The occupants of tin- Urn nislne of Mrs.
atren Hansford.
302
Central Park
We-t. were sever idy shaken up and
brul-l-d last night w hen all automobile
truck wrecked the limousine on the up-
pio.ich to the City I-land bridge
With
Mrs. Hansfoid were Mr. and Mrs. Will
lam I.owry. 22 Hast Foi-ty-scverith
street; Cortlandt Talor, I'M West Sev
i.t.ti'...l?litli .ti..,'l nti.l tlie rbatifletir.
Albert Cadwell. 203 We-t IfliUh stre. t.
Tlie truck, owned by Jacob Freid. '".'.
' Hans.-vooi t street, wa- being driven ny
STRIKERS STONE EMPLOYER,
Iriinirarkrrs Sinnsh Tnlnr's Aula
nnil Wnunil lllm In Triuplr.
Strikers from the Talor Iron Works,
Morgan and Norman avenues, el re-en-
,., m;'"'" ." l, "ul "Z
l,,"",i""i
I n ' "'"""'t a!' ',.','ir:
; v' . V' " , , .
told the men hat If hey chose to re-
I ;!"" " w,,r" r"" u" KO' m" ,"'
ihcij was no necessity for a confer
' enee
As the strikers fell hack they began
to throw stones, one striking Taylor on
his right temple. The windshield of the
i machine wa- smashed nnd the ruitomo-
, OIK w lie uuicmrv ih.iii.ik.-ii.
I John I.nch, 21 .vear.s old, of m Mor
gan avenue was arrested on complaint
of Taylor for attempted felonious as
sault. GREEN HEIRS TO FIGHT TAX.
l.nvvjer liitlmtitt'K Tlu- Will I'nr
Only mi Properly Here.
The executors of the estate of llettv
Orecn will resist paving full Inheritance
tax to litis State on the giound that Ml-. I
tlreen was not a resident and had never;
resiueii in ai'w iotk r-iaie as mucn as
tlx months In any one ear. Their atti
tude was feneshadowed yesterday hy C
W. Plerson of 120 llroadway, who wiui
Jlrs. Hrecn's attorney.
"Hetty Hreen'H home wns at Itellows
Falls, Vt the home- of her father and
of lii'r atu'cstors," said .Mr Plerson. "She
hud maintained that re sidence fur twenty,
live jeam. II may be that a tax will be
l-ild In this State, hut If so the estate
will Im subject lo a tax paynn nt only
on the property owned In this Slate,
That payment would be considerably less
than Iii, 000,000, I think, the whole es
tatn will come well wllhln the $100,000,
000 .estimate."
YOUNG AVIATORS CROSS SOUND.
Travel From r llnven to II ay
Slmrr In il Honrs nnd in Mill.
Hav SitouE. L. 1.. July 7. Harry
Wilts and Archlo Crost, two youiiR
aviators, recent graduates of the Curtlss
school, Hew from New Haven to Hay
Shore this afternoon. They travelled
about one hundred miles and made the
,lrlp in one hundred nnd thirty-live mill-
UIcs, ill nun limn le-.icnniK an iiiiuuue en
S,000 feet,
The ii vliitorn brotiKht n lotter from a
friend In New Haven to Miss Henrietta
Knapp, a summer renldenl, and also a
copy of the New Haven Jnurnnt-dnurlrr,
which they presented to Irving J, Long,
editor nf thn Hay h'lnro Jminiiif,
Mexican I'eaoa nl Auction.
Mexican currency having a face value
of 40u.H0 pesos brought $31,792 at line
Hon yesterday In thn Ileal Hstiite l".sc
ch.n'.e sale-room. .1, N. It.irbrlck and
N i;. Dales bought It. If Mexican credit,
were stable lOlltO pesos nA)Uld be worth
J202.720'.
i
NEW VILLA RAID
THREATENS BORDER
Carranzii Admits His Force
Has lleeu Destroyed in
Carralitos ISattle.
j Fresh Dauber May t'pset 1. S.
Aeceptiniee of First
Chiefs Plan.
Wahiiinotov, July 7. Tlie conciliatory
teply of the 1'nlteil States to Carratiz.'s
hist note had not had time to reach thc
Mexican Kmbassy to-day before the llrst
move In a campaign of cooperation
against bandits threatening the Ameri
can border was suggested by the ile
facto Government of Mexico.
Carranza, through Ambassador-Designate
Arredondo, notified the State De
partment that a de facto Government
force had been destroyed by a large hand
of Villa followers at Carralitos, Chihua
hua, on Wednesday. Carranza ex
presfed thc fear that this band had pro
ceeded northward through the desiTt and
might concentrate near the border for
a raid into United States territory.
He suggested that the American troops
on the border exeiclse particular vigi
lance in the stretch of border line be
tween lloiiulllas and OJinaga. nnd iiom-
Ised that meanwhile every effort would
lie
made by his own forrtn to pursue
and capture the bandits,
The despatch containing the warning
ws turned over at once to Secretary
ir.iker by tile State Department and tele
gravhed to (Jen. Kunston. Means for
dealing with the threatened raid will be
decided luion at Hen. Funston's head
Uirter, and otllclaH here exprtssed the
belief thai the Villa band will meet with
a warm reception If It attempts to cross
the line. No specific suggestions are
made to den. Funston, but preliminary
reports fiom him are expected as to the
piecautlonury measures taken.
.Vol Near lira. Prhln.
The presumed lino of match which
Pic liatid has taken Is not within strik
ing distance of any of the troops of
lien. Pershing's expeditionary force. It
Is over rough country nnd through du
ett regions where Carranza himself has
practically no trooiw. The danger, ll Is
explained, will come from a pis.-lble
suddin concentration of the bind near
some selected point on thc border for a,
iuuiien incursion over the line.
lien. Funston's most d tlleiilt nroh-
lem will be to uncertain what point
the raider- are making for and so be
i,,, '" ; concentrat.- a siilttiieiit force to
meet them. Incidentally. It I- regarded
as not Jtiipriuaiue that some or the mill- cldent on the night of July I. With a
til troops may be dote to the thick of ' i.irK,. p,irty f friends Mr. Mllburn was
actual fighting. helping to set on llrework nt the re.-i-
Army olllcers here say that Hen, Funs- t ,iece of Harry l'avne Whltnev at P.o--toti
may Und the use of hi- aeroplan.-i yn. . l.ir-e rocket went oft behind Mr.
of Inestimable value In locating the band Alilburn ami struck him In the back of
ns it approaches. Jlllt the most valuable .i, 1H. ,.,,,1 j.eik Ills neck was rut
Information, It Is expected, should come
rrom riports received ny tlie .Mexican
t.lny. Is regarded here as an excellent
omen lor tne enective eoopcrainn c.i me
two (iovernments to wlpn out Vllli-tas In
northern .Mexico.
I'. S. ole iii I'nrriiiirii.
- stated In Tin: Si'V to-da, the
i note which President Wilson dlrcctnl be
despatched to Carranza expri en gr.u-
Itlrntlnn over the conciliatory attitude
of the dc facto Hovernment and promised ,
hearty cooperation without going Into
detail ns to the methods to be employ oil i
In endeavoring to reach an adjustment!
of the matters In dispute.
The text of the note addres-ed tn Mr.
Anedondo follows:
Sin: I have the honor to acknowl
edge the ncelpt of vour communica
tion of July I. 1!1 6, In which you
tianscrlbe a note addressed to me by
the Secretary of Fmeign llelntlons of
your Hovernmeiit, and tn request that
you will transmit to him the follow
ing reply :
Mn. Sh'RKTAisy I have the honor
la acknowledge the receipt of yoiu
rourteous note transmitted to me by
Senor Arredondo err tho 4th Instant, in
which you refer to my notes of June
2d and June 2f., and to assure vou
f the sincere gratilicatloii of my Uov
eminent at the frank statement of the
.iinu-ulties which have unfortunately
n risen III our reianons aping inn in
ternational boundary, and the unre
served expression of thc ib Ire of your
Hovernment to reach an adjustment
of tlne dltllctiltles on a broad anil
amicable ba-is.
spirit of I leopi'rnllon.
The same spirit of friendship ami of
solicitude for the continuance of cor
dial relation- between our two eoun
trhs Inspires my Hovcitimcnt, which
equally desires an Immediate solution
of the matters of difference, which havo
long vexi'd both Hoverntiients.
It Is especially pleasing to my Hov
iriiiiient that tlie de facto t lovcrnment
id Mexico Is disposed to give quick as
well as practical consideration In a
spirit of concord to the remedies which
may bo applied to tho existing con
tlltloms. llcciprocatlng tho same desire, tho
Hoi eminent of the I'nlted States Is
prepnred Immediately to exchange
views as to a pmctlcal plan to re
move finally and prevent a reciiri'i tne
of the dlltlenllles which have been the
source of the controversy,
Accept, Mr. Secretary, the renewed
n M urnnces of my highest considera
tion, I am, sir, yours very slnceqely,
ItomaiT Lax hi no. "
Oct Timcllier I'onfi-rcnci-.
The first move toward definite discus'
slou of the various pha-es of the con.
tiovcrsy Is expected to come
'"L ',1"T'" o',
American note of to-da;
doing so he will get repm
Aiieibindo, who will Infoi
the situation with Counsellor
Continued on Third Page.
liuoi nitons ni uti ov lor ..irxiitiii 11. u 1m n.;i ij In lien's i'I'i.i n.t.l u.-viif . -el., i. i . f.... mil. - ...... ...n....l I...
PRESS
HUNGARY IS BITTER
AGAINST AUSTR1ANS
Tisia's Hefereiiee to Defeats!
as 'hisslnjr Kpisode"
Arouses Cliamlier.
Sfttvuit I nblt lti,lcli lo Tin: MX
Lo.MmN, July 8. The Mvrntnu I'oul
prill's the following which It has re
cilMil by mall from n conespondeiit In
llildapest '
"There was a storm in the Huugat lau
Ch.iniber on June 2i, when Count Tisza,
the Hungarian I'reiiiltr, made a state
nun, regaiillng the Russian advance.
Tin- Premier said .
"'Nothing important has happetiel
since June II. Tho ricent lighting may
be considered as a passing episode. We
an gaining tiit ground in Volbynla, and
steps have been taken in the HuUowina
lo stay the enemy's offensive.
".Members of the Chamber hotly criti
cised thc reference to 'a passing tpi
sode.' "Ms the death of a hundred thousand
Hungarians a passing episode?' they
asked. Others staled that Hungarians
are always being sacrlllced by Austrian
ilenerals. who sent them to death to save
Austrian-.
"Count Tle.a gave evasive repllen.
"It Is a fact that lOo.OoO Hungarian
have been lost In thc recent llussian
dtlve."
MISTRESS DEFIES MAID
.tnmirft U'nRF l)i-ninnit
li) Mull
for Personal Hiiiiiiik
If the servant girt takes an extra
Sunday nff when ou tell her to stay
home and cook dinner sue her for
breach of contract.
If she chops meat for hash In an
nlumlnutn dish Instead of a wooden
chopping 1wl charge her with In
competency. If she soaks a washable dress so
long that the colors run demand d im
ages for Injury to personal property.
All this Is being done In thc Fourth
District Municipal Couit In Jamaica,
where Judge Denton was confronted yes.
terilnv with thus., ulleiratlons lit an
Ir ll- "lir,Mi.hnl,1 r Ml All... Ilvllvtrom I
an art student of Chichester avenue,
Jamaica.
Her former servant, Klla Hlgglns,
whose homo Ir at 1333 Palmetto street,
lildgewood. Queens, sued for $20 for
wages unpaid In June.
Mlsn Oyllstrom set up a counter suit
and through Attorney Stephen H. Vorls
if Jamaica developed the ominous sound
ing allegations.
Decision wns reserved.
..,',.,
' ROCKET HITS J. G. MILBURN, JR
i
I'olo Plnjer Pnlnfully Injured ill
.........
Hkmistkmi. L. I.. Julv 7. J. H. Mil-
j burn, Jr. the well known polo plaj .r,
will not be able to indulge In his favorite
game for several wicks, owing to an uc
and head ami face were burned s.-vcrelv. 1
t, was treated ! a physlcl in and went i
VOTING MACHINE FOR HOUSE.
I'ropo-ccl Device Will I'rnellc-Hlly
r.lllnlliilte Flllliiisli-ra.
WasIIINiitdn. July 7 A le-oliitloii
1 tli.it will practically eliminate th- oppor-
umity to illllmstit In the Hoiive will be
i i,.iKirted to-morro.v bv the Commute,- on
Accounts. Tin resolution will authorize
M impropriation of f 12a, 000 to Install an
electrical voting device in the House.
n,,, iiou-.e cimmitln- his amnoved a
levire Invented bv It. !,. Ilobton' of Mil -
waukee .Mr lt.ibrolT guarantees tho ma- bear on an) point of tlie lliis-uu line.
chine will work, or llic Hovcininerit d The battles here continued without m-
not piv lor It. It is ileclatcd that even 1 lei mission, heaping up thousands of C.er
if members aie absent in their utile not! inin dead dill.v. but having rm effect on
moro than ten inlouti s should be rices- ur lines. Tin le aie Indication- that the
sarv lor a toll call Photographic copies I nemv is unable to support liii- sector
of the vote are to lie taken bv a siieelal I l'cavily Willi lecnfon cniiilt- and re
attachment which makes a pliltnc of the
big board within thirty seconds
It now taki'M from fotty to forty-five
minute's lo call the loll. Tho leader of a
filibuster wields us Ids chief weapon re
pented demand- for time wasting roll
cull-
FIGHT ON OSBORNE KEEPS UP.
Week, Will lio I'.vc. I.. 1'iii.r. of,
Xlipinls If i'cenr.
Wiiitk 1't.MNs, July 7. District At
torney Weeks said to-day be would do!
all he could to hi lug llinnias Molt is
borne to trial oil the ihaige of Im
morality tvspite .Mr. Osborne's reln
ui..i ..u .it.,!.... ..r s!i..i- silt,..
The immorality charge la Ihe nxih
count of the one indictment remaining
i, m- ,.! I,.,., , ,!.,,.,
ageiiieiit of the piison Justin. Plan or.
lered It enia-hid Mr. Wci'ks nppeibd
but the Appellate! Division In Hrool.ly
sustained Justice Plait. Mr. Week
then obtalni'd
ternptiiary stay, nrgu-
incut on which will be heard before the
Appellate Division cm July 2S Mr
Weeks said If he lost again he would
go to tho Court of Appeals.
MICHIGAN MOOSE BALK.
Ili'pilillnle' Vnlloi.l.l I iiioinlllee's
llielor-i'liielil of llimlii'n.
Dktiioit, July 7 The suite central
coinuiltteo of the Pntcsshe p.llty this
afternoon tepudl.itcd the action of th"
National Comnilttee In imlotslng Hughes
for tho Piisldency.
'Pile commit!' c dcii.iiiil for ihe perpet
nailoii of tho jiariy ami the entering or
conipletn Stale- and local tickets in the
coining: ciimpiilgn.
II n ii OrVcrs ivliillun field.
Iwlll bo accrptrd nn6-n iimiilnal sum
paid to conform wttb the law.
VX AHIIiril.Ton, Jioj I. -iik'iiiuc . I 'i-M'Mi.iJ i.iii.-.. . .. I-....- . i I,, eilsi. ii u.i sloemeil bo-
from Mex- jtj.m, the New Vork financier, has of. Premier A-quith. .uvor. ing o tne , r- -'',.'' ti.,uulnH , a htion
to teply lo tliu fered several hundreil ncn-s of bin lug i me II is rxprctcii ,xir iroiia n w -n . i
)', but before I, .Main near Charlottesville. Va , to Ihe 1 be appoint' d cretuty fu Scotlim. ' , i
rts from Mr. i;v. ii.iiienl to be used as a r.nioiiMl , King Heoro received liavid i.lovq , V" ',, .r..i
rtnally discuss. . ,,.iiot for avlatlcn, or roi- stock nn pif iemv.. to iiuuuiice io.u.ij .,o.i o ......,.. ,,u ,i.., too badl
Polk who f,..- il.,. iirmv. It Is In-lleved Hn-. oOVr lilui the seal- f tho M-cretnry snip or , . ,
RUSSIANS WINNING
ON 300 MILE FRONT
Herman Line. Weakens Cutler
Terrific Artillery and
Infantry Attacks.
HOT II M Kit FALLS HAL'S
Muscovite Success on Koroiice
Made His Position
I'nteiialilc.
Pr.TiioiiliAU. July 7, via Louden. Ju.y
(Saturday). Thj retirement of Hen.
von Hothmer's army westward between
the Strlpa nnd Zlota I.lpa rivers has
begun. With the occupation by the
IttiSMiins of the east bank of the Koro
plce, which parallels the Strlpa twelve
miles to the west, and a further advanre
by tlen. llrusllurf between the Dniester
and the Pruth, Von llothmer'K pn-Itlou
became untenable.
Actorillng to Col. Shum-ky, the mili
tary critic of tho .'oiirse (Jiueftr, Von
llolhmer Is hurriedly moving his troops
in the direction of Htaiilslau, the Im
portant railroad centre sixty miles south
of I.cmbcrg. Col. Shum-ky believes that
I the Herman (letieral Intituls to miiuc
I a stand on a line from Stanlslau to
"iii.ti Mllltarv critics doubt. howeVi r.
j, i.M ability to maintain this line In view
of the presence of (ieti. Letchltzky'n army
-outn ol tnese towns in ine iivum,. ...
Nndworna und Tl-menltza. lien. I.ct
chitzky Is relied upon to continue hls
poundlng of Von Hothmer'.- light wing.
Weilkenllm on :t Mile Front
Indication- that the Herman forces are
gradually weakening under thc furious
artillery lire and infantry charges of
the llusslans on a front of 300 nillea.
from Hlga to Baranovichi, are feen in
unotTlclal reports from various sources
and In thc official statements of tho
Herman and Russian War offices.
The Herman statement announces mai
1" :!ppo,'u,glthe
Hell. Von
advance of Hen. HrusllolTs army on
Kovel nnd endeavoring to protect me , ,)V IIBM111t Thlll'Mlny llljtllt.
left wing of Hen. xoti llolhmer army ii,.i,iii,., ,,f tho iLiv
In Hallcla. has been compelled "on ac- I he hltleiet llKlltlMK or tllO IW
count of superior pressure" near Kos- eciirreil oil the eelitre of the line of
tiukovka and west of Kolkl to with- k , ,,. nvo vllhliren of Uvll
draw a corner of the Herman lines Pro- . iii.i.,i.
trudlng toward Czartor.vsk. This Is nr, ler- nn.t Colltiiltnalson. A Ilrltlsh
Important succe.- In the llussian ad- ,-i;nile forceil Its way Into OvUlcrs
SIST annon0: tX'V'tw. ...! e,,,,.,.',! In a ...'.jK-rate MrP.e
sector of the railroad station at Mane- for liWM'ssoli of the vlllnk'e. At .m-
I vltchl. fourteen miles west of Czar -
torvsk. and the town- of Kom.irow ami
Hiailv. H.uthwest of l'zartor.vsk.
Tho llufsiaris am taking the offensive
with con-ldeiable succe-s aIong tne
'..,.,. , r, itnm.t I
ti,.. r:.'m.n. :w i i,ult of their
. rrl'nle defeat In the widely separated
,edors of ltiga, llaiannv Ich'l and Kolkl
have begun to withdraw westward on
their whole front.
A tremendous offensive b.i- t'een
launched on the ltiga front, whete the
llussian artillery, now well furnished
with munitions. Is smashing the Herman
trenche- piep.iraliey to Infantry as
sault.. The bombardment ha- now lasted
24 houns.
untie thrower- und mole than .",000 rifles,
ii ulrluiis r- rinlslii-d.
A despitch to the 7'f'in from l.uti-k
MI.VS '
"Fighting on this f on in: mn - day
by day with ltttl- van.itlon. It I- t.
however, that the heav v guns .if the (iei
mane, cn-ate gteat losses anil . liable
them tieqiiently to take Itulan position-,
which ate Urtuallv without excep
tion n taken by Itiisslan counter attacks.
"IMih.ilil.v the heaviest lighting has
lien near ! lojite-he-, where tin- .ii-itnan-
I hid eighty heavv guns so placed a- to
-bows a tendency to fly iinie-aslngly on
bis attillery .-upei ml ny. without which
we' should prolialdv swe.p him buck
laindly
"Aii-tilan pil-oncis .uc unnmmnii- In
s atenictits that Au-tria i- tlnl-he'd and
that the entile nation I- muted In de
manding peace at Ihe Caiilesi possible
u. uncut."
BIT GOLF BALL; MAY DIE.
--.. (!..r,!.i. ofllehl. retlnf. of ves-
'fluid lu lore n seeri-l Pli slcln n
- ' ... , ((lr n,ioie.
nitfi:Nvvi.-ii, conn.. July 7 --Hii.im
Into tin- centte- of a golf ball may co-t
tlie life of liiaiie- Amlri.i. tne twelve-
year-old son of Mi and Mrs. l.awienct ,
.M"ir.i m w en i.e s , n ..
1 Hicenwich hospital n a i-.-r oils comlit ion
land hut Utile- hope iw cnlertalned for his
' ll'i CIVI'l v.
i The liny bit tin- email i "l e which ir.
ii ! the bitter grade of golf balls cnutain-
- J '"'hi. und It I- believed n swallowed
iiiantltv of the tlunl. The substance
cootullii'd In the con- Is a secret probata. I
Hon, caicfully guarded by the owner of j
til- piiteut.
Four years ago, when Ihe inanufac-
line of golf balls wilb liquid cole- was
I begun, tho Fulled Stales Holf Asmi-
i elation sent to all it- members ,i w arn-
I It.g that thr iluld was a dangerous acid,
I Pioclamiitlonsprin-.'il in led l.llcis wen -
P'
leil at r lie 1 1 111., ill tile I'llltl allil fill 1(1
hou-i s of all organizations in the as-o.
elation, In golf nmnlv stores and wher
ever folliiwers or the gatno congrcga-id. i
TENNANT REJECTS PEERAGE.
Mil He Made s,.-rclnr for Scol
Inuil l.loy d licorue ill l'ol.
I.iinp.in. July 8. Harold J Tennant.
.Pin uitiientaiy Indcr Secictiiiy tor War.
. ..ef l I...
War
Jolllcc
Lloyd He urge
c this afternoon.
BRITISH DRIVE
NEW WEDGE IN
GERMAN LINES
Trenches at Three Points
on Sojnme Front Are
Taken b.v Assault.
AVIX COXTALMAlSO-x,
BUT ARE DRIVEN' OUT
Prussian (iuard Is Hurled
Into Action to CIreek
the Onslaught.
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
IMPORTANT SALIENT
Berlin Admits J.oss of Posi
tion on the Road to
Kovel.
Summary of the War News.
The Hrltlsli l.'uvV ii'sumtnl tliuii
sleilKt' ImtniiH'f tilowf u-ulnst the Oor
mini lltii's In tin' Solium; sector, nnil
lifter n day C nrrllli; IlKhttiij; Imvo
otirrli'il the (ierniuti ireiuiien nt tliree
IhiIiiw iilntiK tli" front. I.uti'st re
hii s f n mi Ki lt Mi lioiiiliiutirters sn.v
lleree llulitlni: N eolitllltlltiK.
Tlie UrltUli piln-. vvlillitml r-N
Miltlnc In uny siilitniitlnl u.lvntn;e.
tire iiiiirtn'ti'1'lzeil by the Lontlnn War
nffli'e n- liiiMiiititit from u tnotltiil
viewpoint. Their .rente I Micros.-,
wns east of l.u llnlelle, where the)
fiiptureil (ieniiiiii treuche-i on a front
of nearly ,nnn yards nnil to n ilnpth
of rm yanlM TUN Is In n,Wl-
noil to I.msi . varus oi trem iies uircii
1 tlli,,,(m division of the Prussian
. . .,,,. ,
KUtll'il "as l.lltlf'il lulu the IlKht to
i ,.,ru the lirltl-h inlvnnce after the
. . , . . ........i,..! i,v n-stllllt.
I 'iinlalliiui-oli wtis reeaiittireil, but
I ,.v, ,,.. loft in the liuinls
of Ihe lililMi.
tin ihe French en.l of the Soinnie
M'cior there was a lull In lite llj:htlli..
The French official report iloex not
even nieiilloii the ii-iiul artillery tluel
which tills the Intervals biW-en In
fantry a-Miult-.
Tin' violence- of Ihe P.iitMi offen
sive failed, however, to illveqt Ihe at
tention of ihe Herman- from their
desperate efforts to euplure Ver.luti.
Assault after assault wit- ilelhere.l
iiKiilii-t the Fretnii lines in ihe sorely
hattereil Thlaiuaoiil reylon, hut, ne
eonllim In Paris, nil were In vain.
Surpalni: even In ltiiMinance the
A llli'-' area I effort on the western
front, ilie news from the en-torn
theatre shows thai the lttisslans have
cm list i heir offensive on an till-
pii'ii'ili'tiU'il scale-, tin the whole front
from Itl-a to ISiiraiiovlchl, u tllslance
of alioiit :nn miles, tu.lnii forces
ate belli;: liiirleil n-:iin-t the (ienuati
line-. I'llliln r i" the -oiith (It'll.
Kiile.lini- i- nivlii'.' -leaillly Invvanl
Kovel ami has I'nptureil two vlllnu'es
ami a litllroinl -uiilnti nil the Saruy
Ixiive-I roml. .Military erltles of the
Allies iisseii lltiil unless the Oernians
can halt the Itu inn tnlvunre at once
the will have to withdraw their lines
uliiu. the entire I'lt-iern front and
prohalilv aluttiiloii l.eniheru'. Some
'Jo.immi inisonei's an' lepoiied cap
tureil In the' la-I few days.
, leidtl.V a.lllllls tile III nllli ll Hll tit- of a
snllenl to lien. Knledlnes, but both
! Herman nnd Uiis-iun olTliiul Mute-
j fn tn glvi' n clear Idea of the
ex.iii -Dilution In the 'ii-t.
,,i.rci .1 UL'l
iil l.tfl .'lO.llVvi
LEIPZIG llKDOUBT
,
I
nrry I'll rl of luiini-iiki-ly strmiK
Posllion In -online lleulon.
I..IM.OS. July 7 -The Hiitish Iroops
lu Ihelr new advance to-day gained sev
rial Important successes, among which
i- Ihe capture of a fuither portion of
! an Immensely stiotig posumn icuuwii .is
the Leipzig leiltnuii.
i I'-"" "f H'"-""'lle Hrltu-li troops cap
tuiol Herman ticnch.'S on a front of
' ne.n ly 2,00n yaids o a dei h of Sfln
V yarns m - " --'""
lorccil tlieir way inio ine village anvi
ciiptiirliig jOO yards of thn Herman
flout
Sortli of Filcoiiit they el ove the tier
minis from two woods and captured three
lilies of tienches.
Pruaalitn Ounril Itipeil-ed.
An attempt by the I'rus-ian Uuaid t
' prtr in Hie advance east of ContalmslFn
wa- ciusueii oy un- in men on- iiiiu i"--
various legimenls
attack
eirlsoni'l- of
k u i iiiiniiii' iu y i' i ii i. i" " ' i-.'i...".
to continue coun'cr
