FME AB1ZO N A KJKJr U JBJL1CAJN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JULY 8, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 51
era
British Resume Sledgehammer Blows in Somme Region
SPpirp
w mm
mm
T
TUBE PITS AFTER HI
T
IF
n-
CROFS BETTER THAN
FIVE YEARS' AVERAGE
TERRIFIC FIGHTIHG ATS0W1WIE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The British have resumed their sledgehammer blows against the Ger
man lines in the Somme sector and, after a day of terrific fighting, have
carried the German trenches at three points along the front. Latest re
ports from British headquarters say ttlint fierce fighting is continuing.
Th British aains. v.hile not resulting in any substantial advance, are
characterized bv the war office as important from a tactical viewpoint.
Their meatest success was east of La Boisselle, where they captured Ger
man trenches in extent of nearly 2,000ynrds and to a depth of 500 yards.
T(-; nam i. in sedition to 1.000 vards of trenches taken by assault
ThunHav niaht.
The bitterest finhtinci of the day, occurred on the center of the line of
rW hmit th iu.n villaaes of Ovil lers and Contal maison. A British
brigade forced its way into Ovillers and engaged in a desperate struggle
for oossecsion of the village.
At Contalmaison a. division of the Prussian guards was hurled into the
fiaht to chock the British advance, after the village had been carried by
assault. Contalmaison was recapsured but 7C0 prisoners were left in the
hands of the British.
On the French end of the Somme sector there was a lull in the fight
jnj. The French official report does not even mention tho usual artillery
duels which fill the interva.-. between infantry assaults.
The violence of the British offensive failed, however, to divert the at
tention of the Germans from their desperate efforts to capture Verdun. As
vault after assault was delivered against the French lines in the sorely
hattered Thiaumont reciion. but according to Paris, ail were in vain.
Surpassing even in importance the er.tente allies' great effort on the
western front, the news from tho eastern battlefield shows that the Russians
have extended their offensive on an unprecedented scale. On the whole
front from Riga to Baranovichi, a distance of 300 miles, the Russians are
being hurled against the German lines. Farther to the south, General Ka
ledines is driving steadily forward toward Kovcl and has cautpred two vil
lages and a railroad station on the Sarny-Kovel road. Military critics of
the allies assert that unless the Germans can halt the Russian advance in
the immediate future they will have to withdraw their lines along the en
tire eastern front and probably abandon Lemberg.
The German official report of Friday admits the abandoning of a sali
ent to General Kalodines but both German and Russian official statements
fail to give a clear idea of the exaci situation in the east.
The Italians claim continued progress in their offensive in the Tren
tino district.
I
i
! WASHINGTON, July 7. Crops
I this ear, better than the aver-
age fi.T the five years from 1 U 1 0
to 1914, lut in most rases smaller
! than last year's harvests, were
predicted today by the depart-
ment of agriculture, basins its
estimates on conditions July 1.
Compared with conditions as re- j
! polled on June 1, the crops show-
j cd moderate improvement. The
j feature of the departments report
I was n forecast of a record -break-
ing tobacco crop and announce- I
j ment of i heavy cuantity of
I wheat held on farms July 1, the
j latter being more than double the
n. r. fc
T
I amount usually so held.
DEATH TILL
1
Germans Unable
To Carry Along
Counter Attack
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS. July 7 The oattle was
suspended along the French section
of the line, in Plcardy today. The
Germans were too badly hammered
yesterday to be in a position to con
tinue the counter atacks and the,
French were left unmolested to make I
careful preparations for the second
phase of their offensive. In accor
dance with the new strategy of the
nllies, the second thrust of the French
will not begin until the British Jiave
advanced their line.
Another reason that the Germans
were obliged to hold their hand is
that they have not yet rearranged
their communications which were
thrown out of gear by the rapidity of
tho initial French drive. Chatilnes,
the gieat junction, "n the Amiens-Rheims-Chaumont
transverse railroad
Leipzig Redoubt
Is Captured By
British Forces
Pepublican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 7 The British troops
in their new advance have gained sev
eral important successes among which
are the capture of a further portion of
an immensely strong position known
as the Leipsiz redoubt, according to the
official statement issued by the London
war office tonight
Fast of Labolsselle, the British have
captured German trenches on a front
of nearly 2,000 yards to a depth of 500
yards. In the direction of Ovilleres the
British have forced their way into the
village after capturing 000 yards of the
German front.
North of Fricourt the Pritsh drove
the enemy from two woods and cap
tured three lins of trenches.
An attempt by the Prussian guards
to stem the advance east of Contalmai
son was crushed by the British force
IF UTILE TITS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, July 7. Health au
thorities of New York decided late
tonight to abandon for the present at
least, a plan decided upon in the
afternoon, to appeal to the American
Red Cross for nurses to aid in
stamping out t tie scourge of infantile
paralysis in thi.t city which since
June 1, has caused 190 deaths among
children. Health Commissioner Km
erson said he was now of the opinion
it would not be necessary to ask for
outside aid as tho hospitals of this
city have agreed to extend their help
more freely
The call for help was sent out after
a day devoted by health authorities
and the most prominent physicians of
the greater city to a discussion of
means bv which the spread of the
disease can be checked. Some en
couragement was found in the fact
that fewer new cases were reported
today than on Thursday and Wed
nesday.
Dr. F.merson declared that one of
the steps he hail decided upon was
the prosecution of persons who have
failed to report cases of the disease
ttiey hae attended.
Another serious phaae of the' sit
a til." late p. trom eima. Ala., reporting nation was reparted today by the as
three or four deaths a' Mobile lacked j snciation for improving the condition
confirmation. ,,f the poor, which has found that in
More than i,owi,uuo damage was i the congested districts of the citv
done in Mississippi and Alabama
alone, according to estimates tonight.
Mississippi suffered crop damages
estimated at $2,ii,(iOi. The loss to
lumber in'.erests In Mississippi and
Alabama -i- put at about Jl.Omi.ouir
to teiegraph and telephone companies
$::ift.i)'0: to railroads, $20ii.(ifto, and to
coast cities nearly $l0Q,ui.ti. Knu-
LESS HOURLY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
NEW ORLEANS. July 7.- Reports
tonight from the storm swept gulf
states, though bringhv.; news of prop
erty damage that may total millions
of dollars, established definitely only
one death, that of an engineer, killed
at Bono, Miss., when his train ran
nto a washout. Reports from Beioit.
Ala., that 17 negroes were killed
there Thursday wa flvnied today ami
BANDITS RAID THREE
MILES FROM NOGALES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NOG ALLS, Ariz., July 7. Reports
of a raid bv Mexican horse thieves
n a ranch three miles east of No
ales today resulted in both American
and Mexican forces being dispatched
to round them ira.
The bandits drove 12 horses from j
the ranch of Frank Ake into a corral I
about 100 vards south of the line.
A force of four deput:es and Arizona
aiigers went out from here with the
announced intention of bringing tlr?
horses bark. Colonel W. H. Sage,
communicated with tl.c Mexican mil
itary authorities, who announced that
they had sent soldiers in automobiles
to try to cut off the thieves' escape
to the south.
M. P. Ij faivro, the Canadian,
whose wife and five children have
been detained at Magi'.alena since
Saturday, made arrangements today
to go after hi:; family tomorrow in
an automobile. United States Consul
Simpioh advised the British em
bassy at 'Washington of the case by
teleeraph. Consul Simpich received
word that General Calles had ordered
thct no more refugees be brought out
at Mexican expense.
LI
TO
NOTE
110 CITY.
CARRANZA IN
CLOSING IN 1
BANDIT GANGS!
I
REALLY TRYING
TO WIPE OUT
VILLA BANDITS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mex., July 7.
Large Carranza forces better or
ganized and more completely equip
ped than any other units of the de
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, July 7. Private reports
received here confirm the statements
from Chihuahua that the de facto gov
ernment is making a great effort to
facto government troops today are annihilate the bandits of southern
closing in on the bandits of Southern j Chihuahua and northern Durango. It
Chihuahua and Northern Durango, in-'is stated on reliable authority that
frightened mothers have interned
their children in their tenement
houses, in many instances with win
dows closed. Such action, it was
pointed out, is likely to have serious
effects not only or. the children 1
on adults as well.
fhildrens reading rooms in the
public libraries have been ordered
mentary news from Pensacola re- ! closed ns a precautionary measure
ported great damage was done on the j and u,, order barring children from
water front am! to hipping. Tli.Jthe moving picture theaters will not
Louisville .tfc Nashville bridge acros.- be modif ie I until conditions improve.
Escambie as washed out, and rail- j Playgrounds in various parts of the
road traffic Into Pensacola from the! city were ordered closed earlier In
east will be delayed several weeks . !
The greatest anxiety is felt for the j
crews of small vessels known to have
been in the gulf when tue hurricane j
broke. Munv cf these may have j
Fought shelter in nut -of-thc-v.ay ic-
the day.
Additional asuranoe were given
today by the 1'nited States public:
health service that every poss.il le aid
would be given the municipal author
ities in carrying on their work. Six
lets. Dozens of craft were washed I officers already have been assigiK'
upon which the Germans depended and 700 prisoners of various regiments
for concentrating troops, is no longer were taken. Contalmaison was stormed
safe. Reinforcements and supplies are but was retaken by the Germans In a
being detrained farther east at Ne.sle, ' strong counter attack.
Voyennes and Ham, which points are j The head of the German staff must
(Continued on I age Two)
ashore along the beach at liiloxi and
Iver Island. The steamer Fieda, New
Oilcans for Progrcsso, wer.t ashore
on Alaeran reef on tho night of June
20. but the crew was rescued. Tugs
have left New Orleans to assist th"
schooner City of Baltimore, reported
in distress In the Gulf. She carried
a crew of seven. There was no di
rect wire communication today with
either Mobile or Pensacola. Railroad
traffic out of New Orleans was rap
Idly reaching norma! tonight with the
exception of the Louisville & Nash
ville, which was hampered by wash
outs on the. line to Mobile.
The lower Tallapoosa and upper
Mabnma rivers are overflowing and
I persons In toe danger zones nave
I iiKett (idi.red In move
(Continued on Page Two)
SHIPPING BILL TO BE PRESSED
OF
URGE VOTE AGAINST STRIKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire engaged In the European war, and that
WASHINGTON, July 7. An effort no ships be purchased which at the
. , , ,,,,,.. time are engaged In the 'American
by republican senators to further an T)e
agreement by which action on the gov- government should not engage In op
ernment shipping bill would be post- , eration of any shipping until all ef
poned until the next session of con- forts had been exhausted to charter or
gress failed today when administration lease vessels acquired to private oper
pcnators announced that the bill would ators upon satisfactory terms,
be pressed regardless of the reports of After the White House conference the
a filibuster. It was declared demo- committee held another meeting and
cratic opposition virtually had been it was decided to postpone until to
overcome by amendments which will morrow a caucus of democratic sena
not materially alter the principal feat- j tors that had been called for tonight,
ures of the bill. i
Senators Simmons, f-letcner anu
Reed, members of the commerce com
mittee which has the measure In hand,
conferred with President Wilson after
a meeting of the committee at which
republican members were told that it
would be Impossible to redraft the bill
to meet with the approval of the mi
nority. Informal conferences held later ,
between champions of the measure and Republican A. P. Leased Wire
democrats inclined to oppose It, re- RKIDCEHAMPTON, July 7.-1
suited in assurances that a common . Charles E. Hughes devoted the
ground for agreemet could be reached, freater part of the day to meetlnc
and It was to inform the president of women who will work for his election,
this development that the special com- The nominee and his wife motored
mittee went to the White House. The, nearly 100 miles to the country home
president told his visitors he was much of Mrs. II. P. Whitney at Koslyn, N
pleased at the prospect I and there received about 300 wo-
Two amendments calculated to over- men workers,
come democratic opposition are being j Mr. Hughes did net address his
seriously considered. One would speci- callers, but tiiwnt the entire after
fy that the government should acquire j noon discussing political issues with
no vessels flying the flags of nations , various groups. Chairman Wilcox, of
Pepublican A. P Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, July 7. The
Southern Pacific railroad posted in de
pots and engine houses throughout its
system today an appeal to its D2.500
employes to use their influence to avert
a threatened strike of enginemen, fire
men conductors, trainmen and switch
men. The poster states that strike
ballots have been sent to the members
of the unions, who constitute thirteen
and one-half percent of its employes.
The company asks the men who receive
the ballots to vote against the strike.
to the task of tracing germ carriers.
Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo
Informed Mayor Mitchell today that
after a conference with Secretary of
Agricultural Houston, the latter had
agreed to do everything in his power
to facilitate the entry into the coun
try of shipment of monkeys from the
Philippine Islands, which are urgently
needed for research werk in connec
tion with Infantile paralysis.
Fresh air work for the children of
the city. It was said today, was being
done on the close cooperation with
th city and state Iieatlll departments
Before children are sent to the coun
try they are carefully examined by
two physicians and regular visits are
made by doctors and nurses to fresh
air homes.
Inspec tors who are at work in all
five boroughs of the greater city de
clare that never in their experience
havo they found such sincere efforts
made in the homes of the poor to
follow the instructions of the health
department.
Mothers were told to have their
children get as much fresh air as
possible but to keep them away fronj
oiner cniioren.
Dr. Emerson frankly admitted that
his department had been unable to
determine the actual cause of the
epidemic. All theories which previ
ously bad been held, apparently have
hen disproved, he said. Prorer iso
lation seems to b? the only hope rf
tent on wiping them out.
Jiminez, which the Villistas cap
tured after defeating an inferior force
and killing General Ignacio Ramos
lias been occupied again by govern
ment troops. The bandits are fleeing
through the valley of the river Flor
ida.
Refugees who left Jiminez before
the Villistas were near the city were
responsible for the story that Pancho
Villa commanded the bandits. Noth
ing definite regarding his presence
has been received here.
General Jacinto Trevlno today char
acterized as absurd reports that a re
volt against the de facto government
was in progress and that Alvaro ob
regon, minister of war, would take the
field against the bandits.
"The Villistas already are in retreat
back up the Florida," said the gen
eral. "Large Carranclsta forces are
now on the scene of the battle where
Ramos was defeated and are in com
plete control of the situation."
Military men here explain the delay
n getting into touch with the Villis
tas as being caused by the burning
THREE SCHOONERS LOST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW ORLEANS, July 7. Reports
from sources considered reliable to
night stated that three schooners were
lost off Shipp island in the tropical
storm. The fate of the crews was not
known. Each ship carried about twelve
men.
Hughes Meets Women Who
Will Work for His Election
the national committee, also held a
number of conferences with Woman
leaders.
A national organization of women
was erfected during the afternoon,
officers were elected and a plan of
campaign outlined. The new organ
ization, which has adonted the name
"Woman's National Committee for
the Hushes Alliance," plans to have
branches in all debatable states to
devote Its energy to working for the
national ticket without allying itself
with republican state organizations.
(Continued nn Page Three)
o
Those Who Fled
From Nogales are
Ordered to Return
Carranza officials believe that the
elimination of the Villistas at this
time would help to hasten the with
drawal of General Pershing's army
from northern Chihuahua.
To accomplish this result they are
throwing every ounce of efforts into
the running down of the marauders.
With superior numbers and better
aims and ammunition, they are be
lieved to have a good chance for
speedy victory.
The information reached here how
ever is to the effect that the bandits
are fighting desperately since they
dissapprove of a possible agreement
between Gen. Carranza and the United
States. Among them are said to be
many men who took part in the raid
at Columbus, N. M., who, in revenge
upon General Carranza still are seek
ing to bring on intervention.
El Paso representatives on mining
companies in southern Chihuahua re
ceived reports tonight that the Car
rancista garrison of 200 men at Santa
Rosalia, about 40 miles to the north
of Jiminez, had renounced the de
facto Mexican government and taken
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Two)
MORE BANDIT ACTIVITY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, July 7. Careful at
tention was paid by General Funston
and his staff today to every bit of in
formation coming out of Mexico relat
ing to renewed activity of organized
bandits in the state of Chihuahua.
Carranza's official notification that
the force that destroyed General Ra
mos' force near Jiminez might be mov
ing northward with the object of raid
ing the American side of the river,
was borne out to some extent by In
formation reaching the intelligence de
partment of the American army, but
the American sources of information
also had reports that instead of mov
ing northward, the bandits were swing
ing south and west towards Parral.
( n advices of the new developments
officers commanding the border kept
close watch along the international line
while headquarters officers were pre
pared to send supporting troops to any
point menaced.
The last of the Illinois national guard
reached here today.
T
FEELING
FRIENDLY TONE OF LAST NOTE
Pepiblican A. P. Leased Wire
NOGALES, Ariz., July 7. General
Martinez, Carranza commander, tonight
gave orders for the return to Nogales
tomorrow of the civil population which
fled south at the beginning of the Car
rizal crisis, according to reports here.
The food shortage has been so acute,
reports said, that for the past two days
General Martinez has been kept inside
his headquarters by the mob of hun
dreds of women and children crying for
food.
It was apparent tonight that two or
three hundred persons had drifted back
Into Nogales, Sonora, during the day.
They came by twos and threes, evident
ly walking from Lomas, the railroad
junction point four miles south, as no
trains arrived in the Mexican yards
today.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, July 7. Anti-Carranza
sentiment is becoming apparent among
Mexican residents in portions of So
nora, as a result of the friendly tone of
the last note sent to Washington, ac
cording to Mexicans reaching here to
day from Nacozari, 75 miles south of
the border. Nacozari, they said, was
crowded with refugees from the United
States and from the interior of the
state.
These Mexicans confirmed reports
previously received from Fronteras and
Cabullona that the Mexican soldiers at
these points, as well as civilians, have
been placed on limited rations.
General P. Elias Calles, military com
mander in Sonora, protested today to
the authorities here against the alleged
ill treatment of Mexican refugees by
local immigration officials, who refused
recently to allow many of them to re
turn to Arizona from Sonora. The im
migration inspectors said they based
their action on the fact that these
Mexicans had left Arizona for the pur
pose of taking up arms in the event of
war.
According to General Calles, the refu
gees went, to Sonora to avoid friction
when war appeared possible, as hun
dreds of citizens of the United States
had left the state.
A number of American mining men
visited General Calles at his headquar
ters in Agua Prieta today, requesting
that they be given permission to re
turn to their mines south of the inter
national boundary. Tho general ad
vised them to remain in the United
States for a few days until differences
between the two governments finally
were adjusted.
At the same time, however, he in
formed the mining men that any of
them who felt they should return to
Sonora immediately would be given
safe conduct to their property.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 7 Inception
of the diplomatic conversation which
it is hoped will result in a settlement
of difficulties between the United
States and the de facto government
of Mexico, awaited tonight a sugges
tion from General Carranza as to how
they should proceed. State department
officials believe more can be accom
plished through informal conferences
between Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican
ambassador-designate, and Frank L.
Polk, acting secretary of state, than by
a more formal exchange of views.
They are willing to accede, however,
to some other plan should the de fac
to government propose it.
Mr. Arredondo transmitted to his
government today a brief and friendly
note handed to him by Secretary
Lansing, expressing gratification over
the turn affairs between the two gov
ernments have taken and accepting .
proposals for diplomatic settlements of
points in dispute. The communication
was approved by the cabinet before it
was sent to the Mexican embassy. The
text follows:
Sir: I have the honor to acknow
ledge the receipt of your communica
tion of July 4, 1916, in which you
transcribe a note addressed to me by
the secretary of foreign relations of
your government and to request that
you will transmit to him the following
reply:
" "Mr. Secretary:
" I have the honor to acknowledge
the receipt of your courteous note
transmitted to me by Senor Arredondo
on the 4th instant in which you refer
to my notes of June 20 and June 2uth,
and to assure you of the sincere grat
ification of my government at the
frank statement of the difficulties
which have unfortunately arisen in
our relations along the international
boundary and the unreserved express
ion of the desire of your government
to reach an adjustment of these dif
ficulties on a broad and amicable ba
sis. The same spirit of friendship and
of solicitude for the continuance of
cordial relations between our two
countries inspires my government
which equally desires an immediate so
lution of the matters of difference
which have long vexed both govern
ments.
""It is especially pleasing to my
government that the de facto govern
ment of Mexico is disposed to g've
quick and practical consideration in a
spirit of concord to the remedies which
may be applied to the existing condi
tions. Reciprocating the same desires,
the government of the United States
wishes to exchange views as to a prac
tical plan to remove finally and pre
vent a recurrence of the difficulties
which have been the source of the
controversy.
" 'Accept, Mr. Secretary, the re
newed assurances of my highest con
sideration. " 'I am sir,
Yours very sincerely,
(Signed) '"ROBERT LANSING."
Officials did not fail to note that
Secretary Lansing had laid stress upon
the desirability of giving quick and
practical consideration to the immed
iate conditions along the border which
have been a source of controversy. The
language of the communication plain
ly intimates that a speedy solution of
that problem will be sought, whatever
time may be allowed afterward to find
a means of aiding the de facto govern
ment in restoring normal economic
conditions through Mexico. The defi
nition of the border dispute submitted,
by General Carranza in his note sue- '
gesting negotiations for a settlement
apparently has been found acceptable
by the Washington government. This
virtually narrows the immediate object
of the negotiators to consideration of
the "reasonable anxiety of the United
States for the security of its frontier
on one hand and the desire of the de
facto government for early withdrawal
of American troops from Mexico on
the other.
Additional evidence of the more
friendly attitude of the Carranza gov
ernment came today in the form of a
warning communicated by Mr. Arre
dondo to the state department at the
direction of Gen. Carranza in connec
tion with battle between Villa and Car
ranza forces at Corralitos. The mes
sage admitted a serious defeat for the
Carranza troops and asked that the
(Continued on Page Three)
APPLICATION FOR
RED CROSS MEMBERSHIP
Phoenix Chapter, American National Red Cross, . '
Care Harry Welch, Chamber of Commerce. .''
Phoenix, Ariz.
Herewith, I make application for membership In the Phoenix Chapter,
American National Red Cross. I enclose One Dollar ($1.00) as payment ot
the first year's enrollment fee.
(Signed)
July. 1916.
(Address)
