,s
-V'."-
j
n'rcT : ;;-w' -5W''
'-; v. '-4
'V
. .,.
She Tfettmjjfim 3fme
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Tonight.
(Pull Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITTON
NUMBER 8955.
WASHINGTON, SATURDAY EVENING. JULY 8, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
VILLISTA BAND
REPORTED ON
WAY TO LINE
Force of Unknown Size Sweep
ing Across Chihuahua To
ward Big Bend Country.
AMERICANS ARE IMPERILED
EL PASO, July 8. Vllllstas
are rushing toward the Big
Bend country to raid American
towns, according to information
received here today.
Sweeping across the Chihua
hua wastes from Palomir toward
La Mula pass, a band of Villistas
of unknown strength is reported
to be moving towards OJinaga
and the small American settle
ments in the Big Bend border
country.
COLUMBUS, N. M., July 8.
General Pershing today was again
forced to rely upon cavalry patrols
for reconnoissances around his ad
vanced base. Yesterday the single
aeroplane with the expedition was
put out of commission. A propel
ler blade went to pieces during a
scouting flight by Lieutenant Chris
ty and an observer, but the two
men brought the machine down
safely.
At the Columbus base camp
twelve aeroplanes have been lying
idle for two months for lack of
propellers. A rush shipment of
the special blades required is en
route here.
The discovery that military in
formation was reaching the. Mexi
cans through indiscriminate photo
graphing here caused the placing
of- a strict censorship on pictures.
LONG STAY FORECAST.
Forecast of a long stay for militiamen
on the border was seen today tn prepar
ation at the camp of the Hecond Massa
chusetts Infantry here. Engineers
started drilling- wella to furnish the
camp with a water supply.
Formal guard mount exercises nave
been inaugurated with the Introduction
of the militiamen to outpost duty, inis
formal ceremony was abandoned in tle
early days of the expedition. The band
waa once prevented from "playing
"Semper Fidelia" during guard mount
by a violent sand storm whirling dust
into their Instruments.
Target practice began In earnest for
the militiamen today. A range of aw
yards was tried, and the men shot at a
target constructed In the form and sue
of a man kneeling.
The militiamen practiced In the bias
ing sun for hours.
The general health or the militiamen
here continues good, 'ine only cases ot
sickness reported are Indlgenstlon.
Newman's Name Is
Before Committee
Confirmation of Commissioner's
Name Without Opposition
Expected.
The Senate has referred the nomi
nation of Oliver P. Newman to suc
ceed himself as District Commission
er to the District Committee.
It Is expected the nomination of Mr.
Newman will be confirmed without
recurrence of thai serious opposition
which waa shown when he was pre
viously named. At that time the
question of the length of his resi
dence was raised against him. This
time, there can be no ground for op
position based on length of residence.
German Fleet Raids
Seas Near England
AMSTERDAM, July 8. That a por
tion of the Oerman high sea forces
swept through waters close to the Eng
lish coast, capturing the British steamer
Lestrls, was announced In an official
statement from the Oerman admiralty
today. The German raid waa made on
Wednesday.
This Is the second time German naval
forces have appeared near the English
coast within threo weeks. On June 1G,
the British liner Brusnel, plying between
England and the Hook of Holland, was
captured and taken Into Zeehruage.
Harold J. Tennant
Refuses Peerage Offer
LONDON, July 8. Harold J. Tennant.
parliamentary under secretary of war,
yesterday was refused a peerage offered
by Premier Asqulth, according to the
Express. It Is expected Mr. Tennant
will be appointed secretary for Scot
land. King George received David Lloyd
George In audience yesterday, and
handed him the seals of the secretary
ship of war. Lloyd-Oeorge assumed his
new office, this afternoon.
King Issues New
Plan for Blockade
Hostile Destination of Ships Carry
ing Contraband Presumed Un
til Otherwise Proved.
LONDON, July 8.-Klng Oeorge to
day Issued a royal order In council,
withdrawing all previous orders In
council under the Declaration of Lon
don, and announcing1 new principles
under which the blockade of Germany
will be conducted.
The new order In council stipulates
that the hostile destination of any ship
carrying contraband of war Is presumed
until the contrary is shown. This stip
ulation permits British warships to hold
up suspected neutral shps, which must
then offer proof that their cargoes are
not ultimately destined for enemy coun
tries, to avoid selsure.
The principle of continuous voyage
and ultimate destlnaUon will apply to
contraband In ships passing the block
ade. Any vessel Is liable to capture
and condemnation by a prise court If its
cargo la more than half contraband.
Any neutral ship, carrying contraband,
but which evades capture by showing
papers Indicating a neutral destination
and then proceeds to an enemy port, will
be liable to capture on her next voyage
in the prescribed area.
D. C. SOLDIERS DUE
AI EL PASO TONIGHT
First Detachment of Militia Gets
First Taste of "Wild and
Wooly West."
TUUUMCAH1, N. M July . The ae
tachment or District guardsmen, com
posed of the Hlgnal Corps, Hospital
Corps, and the First Separate riattalion,
on route to Blsbee, Ariz., reached here
this morning. The train made a snort
stop, during which the militiamen got
a chance to exercise by walking.
The special train will reach El faso
at 7 o'clock tonight.
The nrst tasteot the real wild and wooly
West camo last evening when the tpe
clal trains bearing the troops entered
tho State of Oklahoma and sped on tow
ard the Arizona State line.
The shortest sort of a stop was made
here. But all the men left the train.
it was Insufferably bot, and the unicers;
uuwea ine men iuo iuiibsc son oi lib
erty, and stretching their lego on the
station platform after th long connning
ride In the cars acros Arkansas and
Part of Oklahoma.
The members of the signal ,'orps were
issued revolver ammunl'lin today. 'I he
men, had received their eMiiipmrnt of re--,
volvera before they left Kort Mytir. ma'
Hospital Company 'received no arms ot
any sort, of coume. The' Hospital corn
Pan -fcaatrlncln.itly concerned teli-
"with looking after the entertainment ot
me troops en rou'.a. ni'iro nave oeen no
cases ot sickness for thjm to Httcnd to
so far.1
Further Delay in Sight
For Men of 3d Regiment
Indications at the District mllltla
mobilization camp today were that the
local citizen soldiers probably would not
leave for the Mexican border until the
latter part of next week.
The medical officers' reports showing
the number of men rejected for physi
cal unfitness are not expected before
next Tuesday, and It will require sev
eral days after that to fill up the gaps
with recruits and .properly outfit them.
'the medical otilcers said today tnat
there was a tremendous amount ot cleri
cal work Incident to their examinations
and reports and that they did not oxpect
to complete the figures on the entire
'third Keglment until l'uesaay. ine re
port for the first and second battalions
may be available .Monday.
While General Harvey and other otti
cers at the mobilization camp deplored
the unavoidable delay In getting the
ngures. they expressed the hope that In
the additional time sufficient recruits
will have been enlisted to make up tho
shortage caused by rejections, 'i'hey
hope to have enough new men to replace
every man turned down by the medical
officers.
An tho result of a visit to camp by
several doctors In the surgeon gen
eral'? ofilco 1ft the War Department, the
entire District mllltla, augmented by a
large percentage of regulars from Fort
Myer, continued cleaning up the camp
today.
Although the militiamen had little or no
drilling, they were kept in the field sev
eral hours, with axes, scythes, picks,
shovels, brooms, nnd wagons, cleaning
up the camD.
The health of tho soldiers has been ex
cellent so for, but It Is believed by the
surgeon general's office that the men
need regular training In sanitation work
and for this reason all weeds and brush
were ordered cut down, mosquito breed
ing places filled in, and as much dust
und dirt as possible swept up.
Bill Is Aimed at
False Publication
Congressman Campbell Proposes
Punishment of Unreliable Press
Associations or Papers.
Publication of false reports and ru
mors affecting International relations
of the United States by any newa ansa.
elation Is made criminal In a bill Intro
duced today by Congressman Campbell
of Kansas. Violators of the law will
be subject to a flno of not over $5,000
ana imprisonment of not to exceed six
moniiis. v-ampDcna did reads:
Section 1. That It shall he unlawful
for any person, comnanv. rnrnnrnHnn
press association news association, or
newspaper puDiicaiion to cause to bo
puuiioueu. m transmit oy any means,
or to nubllsh within thn ITnltnri Rint.o
any false report or rumor; (a) having
a bearing unon the lnternntlnnni rain.
tlons of the United States, or
(b) Of such nature as to have a
tendency to Injuriously affect the
peaceful relations of the Government
or people of the United States with
the government or people of any other
country or nation.
Section 2. That for the violation of
the provisions of this act the offend
ing party shall be fined in the sum
$5,000 or imprisoned for a period of
not more than six months, or both
Mich fine or Imprisonment.
Section 3. This act shall be in ef
fect from and after Its approval by
the President.
NO CLUE FOUND
TO
BROOKLAND
Deteotives Search in Vain for
Man and Woman Whom
Keefer Was Following .
INQUEST TO BE HELD TODAY
Detectives are making strenuous
efforts today to identify the man
and woman whom Clarence Keefer
followed into Lords woods, Brook
land, just before he was strangely
murdered Thursday night.
Although every tangible clue has
been followed out by the detec
tives, they are as far from a solu
tion of the mystery today as they
were immediately following the
finding of Keefer's body, with two
bullet wounds in the chest, yester
day morning.
The police are convinced that
Keefer was killed immediately
after entering the woods behind
the couple, as two shots were heard
at about that time.
MEAGER DESCRIPTION.
Only a meager description of the
couple has been obtained. Detectives
said today that the chances of run
ning the pair down on the description
thus far obtained are slight.
The man wore a palm beach suit and
a straw sailor hat and tho woman was
attired In a white waist and a dark
skirt. That Is about all that could be
learned by tho police.
An Inquest over the body Is to be
held at the District morgue this after
noon. Deputy Coroner Carr performed an
autopsy over the body last night and
is prepared to give the detectives a
general outline of how Keefer waa
standing and the distance he was
from the man who slew him at the
time of the shooting.
Inspector of Detectives Clifford
Grant and a number of his men went
to the scene of the murder last night
and with the aid of torches retraced
the route taken by Keefer and the
couple he was following when the
crime was committed. Inspector Grant
said today that the person who killed,
xveeicr rviuoniij wrb a crscK revolver
shot and familiar with the woods in
which the crime occurred.
Casement Appeal
Is Pigeonholed
Senate Committee Decides It
Would Be Impoper for This
Nation to Iritervene.
Decision not to report the resolution
urging President Wilson to Intervene
to save the life of Sir Roger Casement,
was reached today by tho Senate For
eign Relations Committee.
The committee concluded it would be
an impropriety for the United States
officially to question, the outcome of
a Judicial proceeding In another coun
try, and that action In a trial Involving
a treason charge would be particularly
discourteous.
Before the committee met, Senator
Martlne of Mew jersey, tne author or
the resolution which declares the
Casement proceeding a "hasty, so
called trial demanded the committee
bring his measure before the Senate.
He said afterward he might ondeavor
to have the Senate overrule the com
mittee. Englishmen Seek
Mediation by U. S.
Two Englishmen of prominence have
within the last day or two consulted
Secretary Lansing and certain mem
bers of Congress on a plan to have the
United States renew Its offer of media
tion to the warring countries of Eu
rope. One of them named Buxton Is a Lib
eral member of the Kngllsh Parlia
ment. Tho other Is the Rev. Bruce,
of tho Church of England. They havo
left Washington for New York.
It Is understood the visitors told
Congressman Flood, chairman of the
Foreign Affairs Committee, they were
Interested In seeing President Wilson
renow his offer ot mediation and they
cave It as their opinion the offer would
be accepted.
D. C. Committee
Favors Costello
The Senate District Committee has
ordered a favorable report on the nom
ination of John F. Costello for recorder
of deeds of the District of Columbia.
No opposition developed. The com
mittee did not meet, but a poll was
taken.
This means early confirmation of
Mr. Costello. Ha Is one of the promin
ent Democrats of the District and the
appointment was in recognition of his
sorvlces as national committeeman.
Baker Approves Purchase
Of Land for New Bridge
Secretary of War Baker has approved
a recommendation of Brig. Gen. w. M.
Black, chief of engineers, settlnir aside
516,000 for the purchase of land for the
new Key bridge, which Is to replace tho
present Aqueduct bridge.
1
IN
PLAN TO HOUSE
S.
Members of New Congressional
Building Commission Would
End Rent Paying.
RENT NOW COSTS $600,000
The widespread feeling in Con
gress that the United States Gov
ernment should own sufficient
buildings in the National Capital
to house all Governmental activi
ties, and should cease to be a ten
ant, is responsible for the crea
tion of the Public Buildings Com
mission, authorized in the sundry
civil bill.
Inquiry among members of the
commission develops that they will
begin their investigation firmly
convinced that the United States
ought to stop paying rent and
evolve a systematic building plan
for its structures at the seat of the
Government. Members of the
commission who were interviewed
today were unanimous in this be
lief, although the commission has
not begun its work.
$600,000 YEARLY RENT.
Under the provisions or the nunflry
civil budget the commlslon. consisting of
benators. Congressmen, the supervising
architect of the Treasury, the superin
tendent of the Capitol iiuilding and
Grounds, and the superintendent ot
buildings and grounds In this city, shall
report by January 1, 1913.
The United States Government, It Is
said. Is now paying more than swu.um
per yean for rented buildings In this
city. Departmental" bureaus aro scat
tered here and there about the city, and
confusion and inconvenience In the serv
ice results.
"I made an Inquiry some time ago,'
said Senator Claude Swanson of vir
gin), chairman of the Senate Committee
of Building and Grounds, "and found
that we are paying between lau.wi and
1700.000 tor rent In the District or Ooium
blt. There Is no reason that the Gov
ernment should be a tenant here.
"As one member of the commission
authorized last week, I believe we
should work out a systematic plan ot
occupying our own buildings in the Capi
tal. Should Be Own Landlord.
"The commission has been appointed
In order that we may Investigate the en
tire subject and make recommendations
regarding thr buildings that are neces
sary, their size and architectural design,
their" location and cost. Of course, we
will seek the advice of architects, but I
btllove every one will be agreed on the
(Continued on Page Fourteen.)
Berlin Accuses
Allies' Submarine
Declares Enemy Craft Attacked
Nine Peaceful Trade Ships
Without Warning.
BERLIN (via wireless to Sayrllle,
L. J.). July 1 A submerged enemy sub
marine attacked without warning nine
peaceful German trade ships en route
to Swinemundo, July 2, but the German
ships had a lucky escape, said an offi
cial statement from the admiralty. The
attack occurred south ot the Island of
Oeland.
"The torpedo wake was clearly ob
served, also two strong whirlpools
caused by the firing of the torpedo,"
said the statement. "Happily the tor
pedo passed between the two ships.
"Armed patrol boats immediately
went In puiault of the submarine."
A special dispatch from Berlin today
reported Indications that Germany was
preparing a record of submarine at
tacks on merchantmen. possibly
with a view to presenting them
to neutral powers nr a fore-runner of
the resumption of submarine activities.
United Press dispatches from Berlin
two weeks ago brought the first word
of the renewal of agitation In Ger
many for a revival of the von Tlrpltz
policy of submarining.
Cars Now Cross New
Rock Creek Bridge
Pennsylvania Avenue Structure
Rapidly Nears
Completion. -
rr frnlnar east on the Pennsylvania
avenue line of the Capital Traction
Company are today crossing the new
Pennsylvania avenue bridge spanning
Rock Creek Park. The eastbound cars
bejran running across the new span yes
terday. By Tuesday It Is expected that
all cars of tho line will be using the
bridge, meaning that the old M street
structure will be abandwed by that
time for traction purposes.
It will require about .two weeks to
complete the approached to the new
structure and to pave the roadway.
Xha bridge will probably be ready for
vehicular traffic by the 1st of August.
OFFICES
N 01 HOME
Head of Red
Nurses Off to N. Y.
To Fight
MISS JANE
.GBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBvf-SSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
VSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkL.a' v r!IISSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBKU.f.''' SSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHV
yBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsffiKfBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBV
yBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsil
fdtetf. nMBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBA
Kv i" ' js1bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbA
ssKt' 4Uik -4sbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBLJ1 V'-SBBBBB. T JSSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVX
sbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI L ' M&JEtZss'm Js&bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbm
bSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbW X TVS'-CWS? KsK2)LBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl
sBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbRPw 4.feifsBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
sbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV?''V- 'WAbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbU
bsbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbWsW Js1bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbM
fSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBKisVV JSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbHi
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbBbbE1''"'' 1bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHb3P8bb
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBT JsT-f'?' iSSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbIHSSK
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBfBBJS vf' SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBFftWV
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm'i'2 iBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWHSffc
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbWK ' y SjbbbbbbbbbbbbHmbbbH
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb iHimsbOf
Bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbf bbbbbsbbst' "iH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBP?SBr ' JHBeJaq
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBKlIf' T ? ' -' ' SBBBBBBS
BbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW yW7 '! ' ' ' ssbbQ
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBsKilffV' "A " , ,.Wfl
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbTM'VIII Tlfli i'mi
BBBBBBBBBBBBBt iil'' AT . W'"' "' MMl
VbbbbbbbbbbbbbbJ ?fh 'f ' ' Mil
tKHBm3 tv" i$$u ' ' mil
vBBBBvmJBmHWi'$5 ' '' 'fflj '"" i ' WMI
vBsBBBBBM?ti&" ' SMbIJN ' . f
VBBBBBBBBBBBrBBBBBBBBBriL'lBBBBBBBBBBBf i 7
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBt sSrfcsBBBBBBBBBBBBsPfc 1
Miss Jane A. Delano to Leave Washington Tomor
row to Battle With Infantile Scourge Will Go
Into Conference 'at Once With Health
Authorities.
Forces fighting the Infantile paralysis
epidemic In New York were re-enforced
today by the American Red Cross. Ke
spondlng to an appeal by New York
health officials Miss Jane A. Delano,
head of the nurss' department, pre
pared to mobilise New York Red Cross
nurses to prevent i possible nation-wide
epidemic, and to check the epidemic In
New York.
Miss Delano leaves tomorrow morn
ing for New York to confer with lead
ers in the fight against the killing
malady. Until the conference she will
make no plana to draft nurses. The
Red Cross now hai" 250 nurses In New
York with the five base hospitals being
maintained on nccount of the Mexican
trouble. This will make difficult the
problem of obtaining nurses In New
York city. Nurses In other parts of
the State and In other States will bo
called on. If necessary.
Want Isolation Camp.
Suggestions were mude today that It
might be advisable to start an Isolation
camp for paralysis victims and to keep
them In tents on the outskirts until the
epidemic has been controlled. These
suggestions will be mado formally to
those In chnrxe ot the battle In New
It Is believed that one of the first steps
taken will be to provide for examination
of children of New York and their pa
rente who leave on vacations across the
State border. Information has reached
the service that the exodus of children
from New York In the last week or ten
days has been unprecedented.
The public health service Is In receipt
ot scores of telegrams from health au
GERMANY REPORTED
GROWING ANXIOUS
Holland and Efcnmark Dispatches.
Tell of Pessimism of People.
LONDON, July 8. The London news
papers printed several dispatches from
Holland and Denmark today, Indicating
Increasing public anxiety In Germany
on account of the western and eastern
offensive of the allies.
Tho Kaiser, one English correspondent
reported, is traveling from front to
front, conferring with his general
each advising against the reductions
of his forces for the benefit of others.
Another correspondent wired that the
Crown Prince Is being blamed for per
sisting in the Verdun attack, when his
forces are urgently needed on the
Somme. Military circles In Germany,
he reported, are discontented because
of Austria's weakness.
To complete the picture of pessim
ism, several English correspondents
aereed that the food situation in Ger
many is dally growing more serious.
The Frankfurter Zeltung was quoted
as saying that the great fight for vic
tory or defeat has only begun.
ONE MAN KILLED IN
POWDER MILL BLAST
Another Injured in Explosion at
Du Pont Factory.
WILMINGTON, Del.. July 8. One
man was killed at 7:20 this morning
when a grinding mill In the black
powder department ot the DuPcsU
Powder Company at Hagley yard ex
ploded. One other was Injured. The
shock shook the entlro city and sur
rounding country.
Cross
Paralysis
Copyrlsht, lLuTl-Zwlnz.
DELANO,
thorities of States bordering New York
And New Jersey asking for assistance
and co-operation In preventing the dis
ease from spreading. Late yesterday
afternoon a telegram was received say
ing that tho disease had made its ap
pearance in Cleveland.
Epidemics Frequent.
It was said at the public health ser
vlco that epidemic of this disease have
teen growing in frequency In various
parts of the world. From 1907 to 1910
outbreaks have occurred In the follow
ing States:
Connecticut, 1M0; District of Colum
bia. 1910: Florida. 1M7: Illinois. 1909;
Iowa, 1908-1P10; Kansas, 1909-10; Massa
chusetts. 1907. 190$. 1910; Michigan. 1907
190S; Minnesota. 1908. 1909, 1910: Missouri,
1S08; Nebraska. 1909; New York. 1907-1910:
Oregon, 1910: Pennsylvania, 1910; South
Dakota, 1910, Virginia, 190S-1910: Wash
ington, 1910, Wlrconsln, 1908. Since epi
demics have al'.o occurred In Canada, In
various paru of Germany and Austria
and In Cuba.
The reports received here Indicate that
children around the agoe or seven are
victims of the present epidemic, and as
with preceding epidemics, more males
than females are affected.
Fever Is Symptom.
"Fever Is perhaps the most constant
single symptom, although It seem fairly
well established that some cases run
their courses without fever," says an
official or the Public Health Service.
lhe rise In temperature Is usually sud
dent and sharp, reaching its maxi
mum In the first day. lhe fever may
be expected to continue from one to
seven days, usually falling to normal
about the time paralysis develops, cases
(Continued on Second rage.)
BOY DYING FROM
GOLF BALL ACID
Physicians at Loss to Find Anti
dote for Secret Fluid.
GREENWICH. Conn., July 8. Biting
Into the center of a golf ball may cost
the life of Charles Andrla, twelve years
old, according to physlcans.
He Is now In the Greenwich Hospital
and but little hope Is entertained for
his recovery.
The boy bit the small core which In
the better grade of golf ball contains
acid, (Uid It Is believed he swallowed
a nuanlty of the fluid.
The exact substance contained In the
core Is not known, ao It Is a secret pre
paration carefully guarded by the own
er of the patent.
A speclman of the fluid Is being ex
amined by chemists In the hope that
more euecuve treatment may De ob
tained before It is too late to save
the boy's life.
ALONZO BLISS GETS
APARTMENT HOUSE
Purchases Chatham Court, in Co
lumbia Road, From Wardman.
Alonzo O. llllss today purchased from
Harry Wardman Chatham Courts, a
five-story apartment house at 1731 Co
lumbia road.
The building contains ninety-five
housekeeping ipnitmentu and fronts
0 feet on Columbia road. The consid
eration was approximately HO,000.
In xchanse Mr. Bliss transferred to
Mr. Wardman n tot at the northeast
corner of Sixteenth and S streets; 50,C1
feet of ground In Sixteenth, between
Newton and Meridian streets, and DQ.OOO
fset at Sixteenth and Pine streots.
ALUES ATTACK
ALONG WHOLE.
WESTERN LINE
French and British Hold All
Gains in Face of Heavy Ger
man Counter Attacks.
RAIN HINDERS OFFENSIVE
Russians Press Onward, Al
though' London Doubts Re
ports of Austrian Rout.
PETROGRAD, July 8. Rus
slsn troops have captured the
villages of Doljltia, Gruzitln and
Manevitchi, in the region of
Kolki, in hot bayonet fighting,
the war office announces.
East of Baranovitch, the Ger
mans pressed back the Russians
lightly, but were later com
pelled to retire by Russian fire.
Southeast of Lake Narocz, the
Germans recaptured part of the
trenches lost Thursday. The
fighting on the front continues.
By ED L. KEEN.
LONDON, July 8. The super-
offensive of the allied armies en
tered its second week today, with
the allies everywhere attacking
and maintaining their early gains
at practically every point, despite
heavy enemy counter-attacks.
A heavy downpour of rain
throughout yes?cday afternoon
converted thiv battleground on both
sides of the Somme into a great
sea of mud last night, nnd serious
ly hampered operations. -Despite
this handicap, the French war of
fice today claimed slight further
progress south of the Somme, with
the taking of 400 prisoners.
The British troops north of the
Somme, after scoring important
successes against the Germans in
yesterday's fighting, contented
themselves last night with improv
ing their positions. The fighting
at the village of Contalmaison
reached a deadlock during the
night, with the British holding the
western end and thejGermans the
eastern part of the ruined town.
LOSSES REPORTED HEAVY.
No official estimates of either the
German or British losses have been
made by the war office since the of
fensive began at 7:30 last Saturday
morning, but the Germans unofficially
are reported to have lost from 30.000 to
40,000 In killed and wounded, besides
nearly 20,000 taken prisoners by the
British and French. Special dispatches
from Paris today reported that B.OOO
Prussian guardsmen, the flower of the
Kaiser's army, were killed In the early
days of the fighting.
General Hnlg reported that In the
last few days the British have cap
tured twenty guns, fifty-one machine
guns, numerous automatic rifles, trench
mortars, mine throwers and other war
materials.
The operations on the Russian front,
where the Slav offensive continues to
spread and develop In power, are be
ing watched with the greatest Interest
here. London military critics are cer
tain the retirement of General Both
mer'a army under Russian pressure In
Gallcla, Is now but a matter of days.
Doubt General Retreat.
On the other hand, wild rumors that
the Austro-Germans have begun a
general retreat from Riga to south
eastern Gallcla are discredited by all
reliable new sources and are not
borne out In official dispatches from ,
Petrograd. London has high ohpes for
the success of the new Slav offensive,
but does not entertain the belief that
General von Hlndenberg's line can
be smashed with the same ease as was
General Pflanzer'a In Bukowlnar
General Halg's report this after
noon announced minor engagements
on the British front extending north
ward from Ancre brook.
At Gommecourt. the scene of heavy
fighting at the opening of the allied
drive. British field guns and trench
mortars uomharaea enemy irencnea iai
night. Near Nouvllle-st-Vaast, north of
Arras, and north of Rocllncourt, tho
Germans were active yesterday. They
exploded a mine northeast of Neuvllle,
without causing any damage and ex
ploded craters near the Hohenzollern
redoubt with no advanntage. Northeast
of Hulluch a British mine destroyed an
enemy gallery
FRENCH GAIN GROUND
IN NIGHT FIGHTING
Advance Closer to Perrone, Clear
ing Trenches With Grenades.
i
PARIS, July 8, French troops broke
th lull In the fighting south of tho
Somme last night, with flight further
advances against the German lines
southwest of Peronne.
"In nghtlng near Belloy-en-Santerre,
the French captured 350 prisoners In
