HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY
Vol. XXI.
CHICAGO, JULY 8, 1916
No. 42
The Eighth Regiment Illinois National Guards, Col. Franklin
A. Denison, Commanding, Has Safely Arrived at Fort Sam
Houston, San Antonio, Texas. It May Be Absent for
Thirty or Sixty Days and Possibly the First of November
Will Arrive Before Its Members Will Wend Their Way
Back to Illinois
MAJOR BOBEBT R, JACKSON WHO WILL BE EE-ELECTED TO THE
LEGISLATURE, IF HE LIVES, FEOM THE THIED SENATOBIAL
DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS WAS PRESENTED WITH A FINE SADDLE
HORSE ON THE EVE OF HIS DEPARTURE FOR THE MEXICAN
BORDER BY THE SUPREME LODGE OF KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
ATTORNEY S. A. T. WATK3NS, EEPEESENTING THAT OEDEE IN HIS
LEGAL CAPACITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD PRESENTED THE
GALLANT MAJOR WITH A CHECK FOR $200 FROM THE SUPREME
LODGE WHICH ENABLED HTM TO SELECT THE HORSE OF HIS
OWN CHOOSING.
STATE SENATOR MORTON D. HULL, REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR
THE NOMINATION FOE GOVEENOE OF ILLINOIS HAS OPENED
UP HEADQUAETEES ON THE .FIFTH FLOOE OF THE MOEEISON
HOTEL, MADISON AND CLAEK STEEETS.
HIS ADDRESS TO THE VOTERS OF ILLINOIS IS PUBLISHED IN FULL
IN THIS ISSUE OF THIS PAPER.
HON. ROY 0. WEST WILL BE IN CHARGE OF SENATOR HULL'S HEAD
QUARTERS AND WILL BE ON HAND BRIGHT AND EARLY TO EX
TEND THE GLAD HAND TO ALL COMERS. FORMER GOVERNOR
CHARLES S. DENEEN WILL BE IN EVIDENCE EACH AFTERNOON
IN THE HEADQUAETEES TO GREET HIS MANY FJKTENDS.
As stated in the last issue of this
paper that just as soon as the Eighth
Regiment Illinois National Guards
were in every way mustered into the
Federal service and had the stamp of
Uncle Sam placed upon each and every
person connected with it, that it would
be .sent somewhere to guard the Mexi
can bonier and this has come true for
on Monday evening it was ordered to
stack arms, break camp, at Camp
Dunne, .Springfield, Illinois, and en
train fur Fort Sam Houston, San
Antonio. Texas, and. after a long ride
side tanking for freight trains and
even for hand ears the regiment
arriicd there- safe and sound Thurs
day, win-re it will remain for at least
thirh dais and possibly until the first
of Nm ember and in every way it will
be a wonderful experience for the great
majonti f its members for they will
lcam to obey orders and to discharge
tlie duties of real soldiers and the
training along that line will undoubt
cdl be of the greatest benefit to them
and on returning to their Illinois
homes they will feel in every way
that t'tx are far better citizens than
what ti'i were prior to their connec
tion with the Mexican War.
On tin- eo of the departure of the
Eight 1. li'egiuuMit from Camp Dunne,
Jlainr 1,'oliert K. .laekson who if he
hies will be re-elected to the legisla
ture tl,,.. f:,)!, from ti,c Third Sena
torial .list rut of Illinois, was presented
with .i tine saddle horse by the Su
prem. Lodge of Knights of Pythias.
Lam. r s a. T. Wntkins, the Supreme
Attonm ir that order throughout the
worbl. x,,!,.,! (:,, j)uune the latter
part i-t i.ist ,,!; ;Ui presented Major
.hnks,.,, ,,i, :1 eheek for f.Wo hundred
dollar iroin the Supreme Lodge en
ahl.m: I .m to select the horse of his
own i khmiii;.
Ha t.l.,'rt loving people of Illinois
hold (,.l. FrjmkUn A. Penison, com
maiui,,,... ti... F.jjjhth Regiment and its
nipml..rs . the highest esteem and
,,uv ' tniitidoiit that they will do
Jh'ir ,m nobly and well while away
frm hen,,- ami on returning back to
tlu'"- lu.. ones whom many of them
a,u bit behind that their conduct
ul 1'.- vu.l, as to cover the regiment
m with new honor and glorv which
""'" t" t to the end of time.
I, I''lHians are beginning to
xl . "1' ,n ;''g the line for the real
't.nj. Wl Jii.i lietWtfen them this
ro"ng w,ek ami several of the candi-
theT, " ,,U" 1lVl,nl,,i f for
0 "g tate jobs have alreadv started
tfc H-iual ball to rolling- among
Hull v"" Sl:,1, SlM,ator Morton D.
h'-puhliean candidate for the
nomination for governor of Illinois
who has opened up headquarters on the
fifth floor of the Morrison Hotel, Madi
son and Clark streets, his address to
the voters of Illinois and his platform
follows:
"The present moment is one of great
importance to our state.
"In spite of the engaging personal
characteristics of those Republican
candidates for governor who have been
in the field for a year or more, they do
not represent the type of constructive
Republicanism that triumphed in the I
nomination of Charles Evans Hughes.
Indeed, they appear before the voters
on their reputation as good fellows,
rather than as good public servants.
There is danger that our state and
party may fall under those influences
that brought disgrace upon Illinois
seven years ago.
"For this reason I have become a
candidate for governor.
"The campaign for a party nomina
tion under a direct primary must be a
comparison of personal fitness and po
litical affiliation. To make such a com
parison is naturally an ungrateful task
for a candidate. Such comparison,
however, must of necessity be made.
Points to His Record.
"My record is one of ten years of
service to the state, eight in the house
and two in the senate. During this
time by diligent effort I have gained
a knowledge of the complexities of our
state government, and have been help
ful in shaping the character of many
good bills which were passed, and in
preventing the enactment of numerous
measures which would have been harm
ful to the public interest.
"In the last session I was chairman
of the senate committee on public effi
ciency, which brought out several bills
for the consolidation of state depart
ments and reduction of expenses of
state government. One reorganizing
the department of state printing was
passed and has already saved the state
over $40,000 in the first year of its
operation.
"The act requiring the state treas
urer to turn over interest on state
funds was carried by me through the
house, and has brought a large revenue
to the state.
"My spoken word and influence
were helpful in saving at a critical mo
ment the present law limiting the
hours of labor for women.
Recalls Loan Shark Law.
"Measures for the mitigation of the
loan shark evils were enacted into law
through my efforts.
"I worked for the enactment of the
workmen's compensation act.
"The act establishing a legislative
reference bureau was passed through
tho house by my effort.
"The actuarial survey now being
made of the various pension funds,
which consume more than $1,000,000 a
year of the public revenues of Chicago,
was provided for in bills drafted by
me.
"Believing in the principle of home
rule in municipal affairs, I have con
sistently voted for control of public
utilities for the city of Chicago. On
the same principle I have voted for
township and county local option.
"Nearly all the important acts pro
viding for the development of the lake
shore in Chicago for park purposes
have been introduced or passed
through the house or senate by my
effort.
"The present state civil service law
applicable to state employes was in
troduced by me and passed through
the house after a bitter fight. The
evil of the spoils system which it seeks
to eradicate dies hard.
What this evil means in city govern
ment is being realized by the people
of Chicago under the present admin
istration. One of the vital questions
in the present campaign is whether or
not the blight that has fallen upon
Chicago shall be permitted to spread
throughout the state.
"Without boasting, I think I may
claim that this, though but a partial
statement of my work, is a record of
constructive accomplishment.
"As against this my opponents offer
professions of faith and promises. The
voters will do well to remember that
political professions arc too frequently
the false currency of political cam
paigns.
Takes Eap at Mayor.
"The present mayor of Chicago, who
is one of Mr. Lowden's chief support
ers, made his campaign promises. His
performances speak for themselves.
"The present Democratic governor
made his campaign on promises of a re
duction in expenses and taxes. His
performances speak for themselves.
1 ' Both my opponents claim to be suc
cessful men of business affairs. This
is conceded. I, too, can make like
claim. Neither of them has held any
office under our state government. One
has been a United States internal
revenue collector and the other a mem
ber of congress with a record so scant
of performance that in his Ottawa
speech he makes no claim to any
achievement.
Such experience as he may have had
in congress would serve him little as
governor. The problems of state gov
ernment differ in kind and are more
complex than those presented to a mem
ber of congress.
Lowden as Lorimer Friend.
"One of my opponents has a record
as an officer in the Republican party.
Mr. Lowden was the Republican na
tional committeeman from Illinois
when the case of William Lorimer was
before the United States senate. Mr.
Lowden gave to Mr. Lorimer his proxy
to represent the Republicans of Illinois
in the national counsels of his party.
"If the people of Illinois grant me
the great opportunity to serve them as
their governor I shall treat that trust
as an obligation as well as an oppor
tunity. My proxy will be given to no
one."
Being an active and a very promi
nent member of the legislature for the
past ten years, Senator Hull is well
known throughout the state of Illinois
and without any question about it he
HON. THOMAS A. SMYTH.
President and Trustee of the Sanitary District of Chicago who can if he wants
to succeed himself in his present responsible position at the election this
coming November.
will prove himself to be a strong can
didate and he is liable to come in un
der the wire ahead of Col. Frank O.
Lowden and Col. Frank L. Smith, for
the nomination for governor of this
state.
From earlv in the morning until
late at night Senator Hull's headquar
ters are crowded down with many of
the leading politicians from all parts
of this state who are loyally pledging
their support to him; Hon. Roy O. West
is in active charge of his headquarters
and at all times he is on hand to ex
tend the glad hand to all comers; Hon.
Charles S. Dencen who is an old time
political fighter from away back also
holds forth each afternoon at Senator
Hull's headquarters and with a smile
on his face he is always delighted to
come in contact with his real friends
and his tried and true political war
horses.
THE "TENTH" AT LAS GUASI
MAS AND CARRIZAL.
The first battle of the war with
Spain was fought at Las Guasimas,
near Santiago, in Cuba, when, on dune
2S, 1S96, the celebrated Rough Riders
had their baptism of fire. Wood and
Roosevelt led into action 450 of the
Rough Riders, supported by 200 of the
First cavalry and 224 of the Tenth,
then, as now, made up of Negroes.
Taken by surprise, and subjected to a
heavy fire from the outnumbering
Spanish forces in concealment, the
volunteers hesitated under the rain of
bullets. The Tenth cavalry came to
their rescue with the intrepidity of dis
ciplined veterans.
Colonel Waterson, in his history of
the Spanish-American war, records:
The courage of the black troops as
they charged deliberately up the slope
was everywhere applauded. There was
no hurry, no hesitation, but cool deli
beration. When a man was struck his
comrade turned and called "Hospi
tal!" with as much presence of mind
as if it were a sham battle. The black
troops displayed fine courage and disci
pline. After a lapse of eighteen years "the
Black Tenth" figures in the opening
engagement on Mexican soil. The
same heroism that was displayed in the
first battle of the Spanish-American
war was shown again at Carrizal, when
the black troops were led into an
ambuscade.
Reflecting on the service rendered by
"the Black Tenth" in Cuba, and now,
after the lapse of eighteen years, in
Mexico, we are disagreeably affected
by this dispatch from Washington:
The suggestion has been sent to the
war department from a government
official in El Paso that one hundred
thousand Negro troops be recruited in
the southern states for use in the event
that the United States invades Mexico.
The suggestion was telegraphed today
and is based on the theory that the
Negro troops will be better able to
cope with conditions in the desert
country of Mexico than would other
troops.
Before the government calls upon
the Negroes of the south to raise one
hundred thousand recruits for Mexican
service, would it not be well for that
same government first to take steps
that will assure Negroes in the south
their political rights? If they are
good enough to fight for the country,
if they are good enough to die for it,
as they died at Las Guasimas in June,
1S9G, and at Carrizal in June, 1916,
then they are good enough to vote in
it. The Tribune, Las Angeles, CaL,
June 30, 1016.
"EIGHTH" LEADER HONORED BY
HOME TOWN.
San Antonio Negroes Give Chicago
Regiment Boyal Welcome on
Arrival.
Special to The Broad Ax. Camp
Wilson, Fort Sam Houston, San Anto
nio, Texas, July 7. The arrival of the
Eighth Regiment at the maneuver
ground was a great event for the Ne
gro population of San Antonio today.
The whites also were present in great
numbers to give a welcoming hand.
Chief among the causes for the re
ception was the presence of Colonel
Franklin A. Denison, commander of
the regiment. Colonel Denison was
born in San Antonio and his rise reads
like a tale from one of Alger's books.
More than thirty years ago Colonel
Penison, the son of a blacksmith, left
here to seek fame and fortune in Chi
cago. He found both. He is now a
brilliant lawyer, having held a respon
sible city office. He is colonel of 1,600
fighting men, the majority of whom
already have proved their courage in
Cuba under the American flag.
So San Antonio laid aside racial
prejudices and accorded the dusky
troopers a welcome rivaling in en
thusiasm that given other regiments
of militiamen.
Mrs. Geneva Smith, 5363 Dearborn
street, has regained her health again
after a short spell of illness.
