Journal BESSl lH
j ;r-1 Cl)t loiyui 3kiiMiVim. fpig 1
EIQHf PAQE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH SATURDAY JULY 8 1916 FOURTEENTH YEAR , ,'':.pS
, COUNTY SEAT TO CELEBRATE PIONEER DAY ON JULY W i
BATTLE CRY OF
PEACt AT LYRIC
i JULY 12 AND 13
No picture, could possibly be more
timely or carry a stronger, more com
pelling mess-ago to tho American pco.
jlo than The Battle Cry of Peace, ft
coll to arms against 'war, 'which la
coming to tho Lyric Theater, with a
20 piece .orchestra playing music es
pecially written for tho picture, next
Wednesday and Thursday, July 12
tand 13. Manager Thatcher has been
congratulated' by many for obtaining
this costly picture for Logan at pric
es only one fourth as much as was
charged in New York, Chicago and
other cities.
If you. have n drop of red blood In
your veins, you will experience In
witnessing Tho Battle Cry of Peace,
a patriotic thrill such as was nover
known before. The drama portion
of tho great plcturo which requires
P more than two hours to unfold, Is
8 enacted by Charles Rlchrann, Norma
Tolmadge,Captnln Jack Crawford,
Mary Maurice, Louise Beaudct, Wil
liam Ferguson as Abrnhnm Lincoln,
Joseph Kilgoro as Oeorgo Washing
ton, Frank Holland a General Lee,
William Humphrey as ,Nnpoleon Bo
naparte and a score or more of equal
ly distinguished Vltngrapli players.
Besides this splendid company,
Hudson Maxim, Theodore Roosevolt,
Admiral Dewey and many other' not
able Americans who' endorse the plc
turo appear In It In person. Skyscrap
ers toDPllnif- Into ruins. New "Yortt
bombarded from sea and Bkj', rush
fik Ing trains .wrecked, dreadnaughtB
f locked In death struggle and destroy
ed, submarines discharging torpe
does, the national capltol In ruins,
New York's beautiful' sky lino In
flames, homes desecrated and de
stroyed, coast defenses In action, all
this and much more Is to bo seen In
this Inspired revelation from the pun
of J. Stuart Blackton and, through It
all, runs an Intensely emotional dra
matic tale that grips the heart and
causes tho spectator to gasp.
Behind The Battle Cry of Peace,
Is a powerful purpose; an effort not
only to entertain, but' to awaken de
fenseless America, to,, the fact that. In
adequate preparation, lies the only
real peace with honor. x' Only two
shows will be given dally at tho Ly
ric and, as seats are, reserved and.
' the demand for them already great,
patrons are i urged to make their re
servations for Wednesday or Thurs
day at onco.
. , -.. . l -
SEVERE TEST ,
OF MOTOR CAR
GREATSUCGESS
Moro than ton thousand miles In
i two weeks, day and night; driving
without mechanical adjustments or
repairs of nny Wind, is the record Just
established by an olght cylinder King
seven passengor stock car, In 'a test
sanctioned and supervised by; officials
of tho American Automobile Associa
tion on tho Sheepshead Bay' .Speed
way, and Long Island highways. The
conditions of tho tost were designed
to ' approximate those' under which
tho' owner operates hls,'cariJThrPu?h
Toin, fog, sunshine and ahadow..nfght
and; day for 330 hour,v thea par., with.
ftra driver, mechanic, and 450 pounds o
ITlfV Band on board Bwopt forward, So
I consistent was tho performance nl
I the car 'in achlovlng Us verage. of
I over 33 1-2 miles pqr hour tlmt,tue,ro,
P were scores of circuits of , the. t great
cval made in which there ,ws leas
than a second's Variation in Aime.
During tho fourteeu days and, nights,
tin' motor was not Btopped once, nor
wa .any adjustmerit'mado upon It,
the car stops only being for .tho pur
ppso of taking on gnspllhp, ,oU. "ond.
water, and changing driving" crows.
Not oven a spark-plug was remov
ed nor tho valves'-touched The total
time lost In making tiie-necessary car
stops was about 14 1-2 hours.
FIRE BURNS
RUBBISH IN
REM OF LOT-
A fire was started In tho rear of
-tho Auditorium on Thursday after
noon and tho way the llnmos scattort
ed Into old rubbish and the board
fences wasn't slow. The fire depart
ment arrived in due time, the hoso
was attached to the tiro hydrant at
tho corner" of Center and First West
streets and strung .Into the rear nf
the Hyrum Nebeker lot' from tho Cen
ter street side of the flro.
It was found, holwover, that there
was no pressure In the watermalus
and the firefighters had to resort to
hitching up the fire engine pump In
order to" get any action on tho flames.
Had their been a wind, their would
probably have been a different story
to tell today, as It was the flames
were put out with but little damage.
Tho need of a reconstructed water
system whereby tho city con get the
full benefit at nil times of our nmple
water supply was senced more yes
terday by the large crowd present nt
the fire, thon on ony former occa
A. A. LAW
DELIVERS AN
ORATION
Smlthfleld, July 7. Independence
Day was fittingly .observed here. An
excellent program wa.s given in the
morning. Attorney A. A. Law of Lo
gan, delivered the oration which was
especially enjoyed by all, and the big
crowd nsscmbled listened attentively
to tho true American spirit ex
plained. Miss Laura Nelson, daughters of
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Nelson, and
Mr. Leo B. Taylor of Balckfoot,
Idaho were married by her father on
Friday evening. A wedding reception
was tendered tho young couplo at the
homo of the bride's parents, also t
bundlo shower by tho young friends
of Miss Nelson- on Friday evening, A
very pleasant evening was enjoyed by
all. They left on Sunday for Black
foot where they will make their fu
ture homo.
Mr. William F. Harpor, Mrs. Ru-by-Sorensen
and Mr. and Mrs. Wil
liam Homer left Wednesday for., a
trip through the National Park.
Arthur Rood, son 'of Mr.. William
Read of this city, was kicked by a
horse, on Friday breaking his leg
Just above the ankle. .
Mrs. John Gutko ofShelley, Ida
ho, has been vloltlng with her son
Joseph Cutko, after having spent tl.o
winter In California.
Mrs. Charlotte Oustavescn and her
two grandsons, nro visiting at Drlggs,
Idaho.
Miss Evellno Moyle of Salt Lake
City, lias been a guest at tho Rom
noy home a fow days this weak.
;Mrs. Millie Oollghtly of Preston,
lnatcen spending a few dnys hero
with relatives and friends.
A number of our young people, fdok
advantage of tho low rates, and spent
independence Day in Salt Lake City".
Mr'.and' Mrs.,' Albert McCann, are
moving Into their now homo on First
East street,,'
Tho Daughters of tho Pioneers will
meqt at the pome of Mrst , Annlo
Miles Wodnosday at 2:30 p. m. The
following program 'yin bo given? 1A
reading by Kitty Toolsen; ' quartet,
Pllklngton. Sisters; .retold story.. Mr,
SV .B.JTarr. i ...
,i Meixlli'Potorson, son or Joseph W.
Petersen Is sick with Mood poison..
'Mrs, Bessie Morehcnd Ferry -an
old Jlmo,' resident- of this city, will
slng! In tho Socond wardTabernaclc
next Sunday In the rcgu'taf sMVlceV.
Dr. EV a'- Peterson of, the II. "A.
O, will speak In. the Parents class at
the, 'First ward tabqrnacle', Silndoy
morning, Tio subject will bo: Par-.
cW neaponMbltltyi . . ' i ' t
It pays to advertise.
HAROLD P. FABIAN
bB bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbk i? - 4.vNJiLsLsLsLsLsLs1LsLsLsLsLsLsfll 1
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbH -' fH I
BBJ BBSBBBBBBBf . . jBBBBBBBJBBBBBBBBBBBBBI
H bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbT - v Jv bbbbbbbbbbS&bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI
UJJbI BSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB;-: jt .i&t..BBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBal BBB
iB. ' "' 4 tilbliBSBBBBBBBBBBlIBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBOT H
I BBBBBBBBBBBBBHlfP'lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBHBBi
BBBBBbI BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbV H'. o'VbBBBBBBBBBBBBB BBbB
BSBBbV BBBBBBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBM V V j-SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbH BBBBBBBT
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW VIZBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBtjlMlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
bbbbbb! bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbK tilltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin H
bbbbbbI bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW Jbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbI
bbbbbbI bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbK sJpbMPBI M
bbbbbbI bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV ' V "'v)- 2bIbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb1bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbI bbbbbb!
bbbbbV bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbW. - JbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV bbbbbb!
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbKJbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbPbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHbbI
iiiiiH,'9liBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH
HiBBBBBBBBBBBHi WWKM I
SSSbbbbbb555b5bb1bI
Harold P. Fabian of Salt Lake, hau
announced his candidacy for the Re
publican nomination for the office nf
attorney general. Mr. Fabian Is u
Vtali boy.. Ho acquired his early
training in tho Salt Lako publla
r.chools. Lo(or lie attended Yale
UnvorHlty nnd tho Harvard Law
School, from both of which Institu
tions ho was graduated with hkh
honors.
Mr. Fabian is a son of F. J. Fa
bian, a well known Suit Lake busl-
MANY BECOME
ELEGIBLE TO
NIGH SCHOOL
During tho past six weeks, the city
board of education has been conduct
ing a summer school for pupils who
J) as to.make up in one or two sub
jects in order to become eligible to
a high school grade. Tho following
Is the list of pupils who received
promotion to high school, is the re
sult of tho past six weoks study at
the Woodruff School:
Milton Barrett,' Amos Brown, Miri
am . Crawford, Margaret Cordon, Clara
Cronney, Josephine Clark, Myron C,ar
llie'Sti1omo Downs, Lucllu Dnlne3,
Adel Kllcrman, Viola ICrlckson, Lion
el. Furroll, Harold Fontaln, Calvin
Hailstone, Lclund Hnwkes, Annie
Hawkins, Margaret Hawkins. Lovrda
Holland, Armsda Jorgenscn, Lavlne
Jacobsen, - Larue Jacobscn, Lymnn,
Johnson, Clara Johnson, Loroy Mlt
ton, William Moyrlck Laveno Olson,
Rulort Roil ford, Llllle Nenbergcr F.I
mer Reynolds, Simon Smith, Motion
Squires, Bernard SecreHt, ICIIle'Spenat,
La uiahcheSmlth, ThUma. Shelibn,
Amber .Norman, Nada Hendricks,
Etta Worley, Keith Westover, Byron
Smith,. Jr .
PRE8BYTERJAN CHURCH ''
A. F. WlttenVerger, Minister.
Preaching" at 11 a. m.' . iU,xu ji
Sunday School at 10 a. mv v
Christian Endeavor meeting' at t:4tf
p. m, y 4 i' ''
Nd ' preaching sen-leas this'-Sunday
night. ,A congregational meeting will
lio lield' l'nimfedlatbly: after tiiet'miirn
Ing sorvlco for" special bUslnpssi
NOTICE
Tho regular monthly me6tliii? of the
Jligli IMests qatfrum of' tire iCache
Vtcko',"Wlll"l)o'h'eid 'lti tho Lon'n'al-
enmclo on Sanday, Jury 9, 'at-1' aim.
rti-'M. LEWIS, Prost.
ii
Judge William H. King of Salt
Lako City, was transacting business
in 'Logan yesterday1. . y
negs man, nnd an old time resident
of Utah. He is a member of the low
firm of Dey, Hoppnugh ond Fabian,
one' of the leading law firms of this
state.
m. Fabian Is n lawyer of marked
sblllty." Ills record at tho Salt Lako
bar has been one of steady advance
ment, and he is, today, recognized as
one of its leading members. His
natural ability, his training, and his
experience has been such as to moko
him exceptionally qualified for tho
office which he seeks.
PASQUALE AT
1 1YRIC THEATRE
MON. AND TUE.
An exceptional) beautiful chtld
that acts her difficult role with u
charming unconciousness is .one of
the delightful treats of Pasquale.
This Morosco photoplay coming to
tho Lyrlo theater" oil the Paramount
program for Monday and Tuesday,
tells about what happened to Pas
quale, tho poor Italian grocer against
whom adversity beats in vain.
One of the charming scenes of tills
plcturo shows the doll Uko daughter
of Mrs. M'artluclll, climbing down
from tho back of Colombo tho white
delivery horso, after she has taken
a stolen ride. Then still full4 of
mischief she climbs to the hayloft on
hearing the approaching footsteps of
her frlond Pasquale, He enters nnd
Is busily engaged in unharnessing
Colombo, when she peering down thru
the f!6or trap, suddenly to 'the be
l'clders horror, overbalances and plun
ges to the floor below. What saved
lier life Is praphlcall'y depleted In
this "totally .different photo master
; FINAL WARNING
-
.... ,
i A jsreat many people living, west of
Main street are using the xlty -water
in tho nftornqons for the watering of
lawns and a great many living cast
of Main street fire. . uslnfi; it- In the
forenoons. This h,, contrary to .an
order made and published a , short,
time ago and fora nov.pn anybody,
pun'd violating- this 'order will be
.losecuted.
It lf also unlawful ,to ,use tho JhfMQ
without' tho regulation nozzle,, and
anybody 'found yiolatlng .thjs rule y'lll,
bo dealt' with according to law.
By order of the B.oard, of City
Commissioners . - -.-
Ad,--'- ; : ,V4 x W
si.
" Boy yoar roods at home.
COMMERCIAL CLUB, CITY II
OFFICIALS, CACHE STAKE !
ECCLESIASTS WILL JOIN , ll
Entire Valley Invited to Join Logan in 4;1
Annual Celebration of, State's 41
Birthday l
' l "?j m 'KM b1
Wednesday evening representatives
from Cacho, slake the city commission
ond presidency of the Commercial
Club met for tho purpose of deciding
whether or not to have n celebration
en tho 24th of July. As there was no
colobrntlou on the 4th, It was tho
sentiment of tho meeting thnt a cel
ebration bo had and Friday evening
tho Public Entertainment, Decora
tion, and Sports committees of tho
Club met with representatives of'
Cacho Stake and appointed tho gen
eral and subcommittees.
The names of the committees nnd
nil tho details of the program for the
celebration will bo announced later.
Tho uearby settlements havo been In-1
CIRCUS CARRIES
ABUNDANCE OF
TICKEJSELLERS
Tho Robinson circus held forth in
Logan on Thursday, and attracted t'.m
usual country crowds. Two perform
ances were given, one In tho after
noon and one In tlie evening.. The
tent was fairly well filled at the af
ternoon performanco. Under the big
tent were the usuol three rings with
trapeso' perforraors, dumb bell Jug
glers, clowns In great numbers, and
we must not forget the' over abund
once of reforved seat ticket selluri
for seldom haB thero been a circus
com to Logan whlchi carried with It
ho many reserved seat, ticket sollers.
They werp numerous that It looked
ars ,Vf the management was over doing
Itself In an effort to carry as many
people as possible to provide them
wltli Jobs and the only Job avallabto
was that of ticket seller.
In Justice to tho show, however,
wo must say that there woro a fow
features that woro roal attractions,
ono of these features deserving of
special mention was tho Nolson fam
ily. It his nover been our pleasure
to see girl tumblers perform so well
as did the small girls In this family.
Tho Japs with their acrobatic
stunts, nlso brought forth much ap
plause. Wo cannot sny however, thnt thero
was nnythlng unusunl about this cir
cus that would mako It distinctive
from nny other circus which has been
to. town In tho past fow yoars.
SUNDAY SCHOOL
EXCURSION TO
SALTAIR BEACH
. Ezra Cooley, stake, Sunday School
superintendent of tlie Hyrum 'statce,
nnnounces an excursion to Saltoir
Beach, over the ,0, L. &VI." on July
19. The rato which Is 2 for' thtf
rpund trip to Salt'' Lako and return'
is good for.,?i ton day trip. Ono car
leaves MUlvilla n't 7 a. m. and oqd
leaves Hyrum at 7 a', m. ' '
Mr. Cooley .says thero will bo plen
ty of cars, if the. general public will
'only notify hlnj of their Intention to
liialco tho trip. ,. ,
Elijah Thompson, Quartos Mllloi'
r.nd Frank McAllstpr, nro hack from
a mast ploasant outing '(lirouph yatio
and Montana.. XUex report tiw -fishing
only fair on tho MndUon liter.
vlted to Join 111 with Logon and make- " 4t
a big day of It. m'IV Iwfl
Owing to the keen rivalry-between'-' 199
the Lewlston and Logan baseball-1 ''131
teams and as they aro so evenly'. ' 111
matched, It la probable that a ganio : fil
botweon theso teams will be nrrnng- ' I 81
ed for tho 24th. -!
Thero nro so many things planno.t t lfl
tor tho colouration that It will be 'jl
Just Uko going to a three ring clr- - ?Hfl
cub to come to Logan on July 21. ' !'' !
Thero will bo attractions for young :,,'JI
nnd old, middle aged, for men, worn ISfl
en and. children. Everyono who has : .'f fl
not already arranged his ontorlaln- "',1B
mept for' Pioneer Day, decldo right 'riifaB
now to.'cfilebrato at Logan. SlH
TOURISTS MAY II
REGISTER IN
LOGAN CANYON ,
Tho local forest officers havo re- ' ' 31
ecntly. placed In Logan canyon. a box '''SB
containing a tourist register,, which . . MM
unllko a hotel register does nof pfaco ' , ',
tho signer under any financial obllga- Wl
lions. Tho book is placed In a storm . I
proof box located at tho cattle gate
In tho Left Hand Fork of Logan call-, iaiH
yon. In placing tho register in this . , rjflfl
place, tho forest 'officers feel .that tho - H
largest uso will be made of It, ..since,, ' '
all parties stop thero to open tlie il
gate.. -"" ... 'JH
Tho forej. corvlce" Is making! an -:
effort to render the hlghesttypo Of j 'flH
service to the people who malci' Use: t 41
of tho national forest, for -recreation-. j
purposes. Tho placlnV of ': tourist- j Jl
roglstors on tho main traveled rods . ' ;H
Is one result of the) efforts. Regis- fl
ters are being placed on fourteen'. of. 'tjl
the thirty forests In tho iriterrooun- '
tain district. IH
Tio advantages In signing these 'tl
registers Is set forth on tho regtstor.. 'H
box In Logan canyon; H
"Pleaso register hero your name,. IH
address nnd destination. Important 'TbbbbbbI
messages may then be forwarded or M
other assistance given." H
RAISE OF FIFTY
CENTSJN BEETS
Tho beet raisers of Cache Valley H
Will Undoubtedly bo a most happy lot J
of, people when thqyjoro advised of x&H
the fact that tho Amalgamated Sugar inVUH
Company has reached a decision, i
Whereby they will pay $5. CO per ton! H
for sugar beets this fall. ' "?; H
Tho contracts with tho beet faring H
erg calls tor $.1 "a-ton but slnco tho'1" H
BUgar pjlcefi have been sooigh tho H
sugar ' manufacturers feel that the ' ll
farmers a,re entitled to part of tho '
profits' '.on account' of. tht&cohdltfon jH
and have tiiereforo doclded to maKof jH
thlsfralso'in'tho prlco of beets. ffl ', i
'Tliero: are'1 upwards' of 125,000 tons! iiH
of sugar bests raised In Cacho Vald
iey. Vlth a CO cont raise per ton! ' iJ
'wlll'modn that the sugar, companf " JH
will distribute' to tho Cache Valley; ,H
Ue6t fannerBupwards'"of f 65,000 as o
Vcsult of "fiielr repent decision. J H
iron with mothers and wives to ' ,'
protect, seo , .7 ' JH
kTHE BATTLE CRY OF PEACE l jH
Lyric Theater, July 12 and 13 ' i
, ..M
