-• • - '. ■'•T' ' ' r rTTrnv- . * - "'• 7 '.,• 1 **-
Allied Forces Continue to Make Progress Against Germans on AU Battle Fronts
HARRISBURG l|j§gSg. TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 156
RUSS CONTINUE DRIVE
AS RAIN STOPS ALLIES
FORCES OF CZAR
CLOSING IN ON
RAILWAY CENTER
Petrograd Announces Notable Progress in Drive on Im
portant Teutonic Base at Kovel; Within Thirty Miles
of City; Make New Gains in Galicia; Battle Near
Baronovichi Still Raging
HEAVENS RALLY TO AID OF KAISER
ALONG WESTERN FRONT; RAIN POURS DOWN
British Spend Time Strengthening Positions Won Yester
day; French Bring Up Heavier Guns For New Bom
bardment; Gain Ground in Surprise Attacks; Vio
lent Artillery Fire at Verdun
By Associated Press
While the entente allies on the western front have been
temporarily handicapped by heavy rains in the further pushing of
their offensive, the Russians under General Brussiloff are continu
ing to drive back the Teutonic lines in the east.
Further notable progress has been made by the Russians in
Volhynia, where their movement upon the important railway center
of Kovel\ is gaining in force. To-day's Petrograd announcement
shows them at Gruziatyn, 30 miles southeast of Kovel. Further
north their lines have been pushed forward to Dolzyca, on the main
road from Kolki to Maniewicze station on the Kovel-Sarny railway,
the capture of which by the Russians was reported yesterday.
New Advance in Galicia
In Galicia where General Count Von Bothmer was recently
compelled, by Russian pressure, to fall back to the line of Koropiec,
a dozen miles west of the Stripa, a new advance of the Russians is
reported.
In the region between Riga and Volhynia the Germans are de
veloping more formidable resistance to the new Russian offensive
and some recession of the Russian lines in the lake Narocz region,
south of Dvinsk, is admitted. The battle near Baronovichi is still
raging with little change in positions.
Heavens Come to Kaiser's Aid
Iti the field of the western offensive of the allies a rainy night
was employed chiefly by the British in strengthening the positions
won yesterday in their drive to bring their lines up to a level with
those of the French on their right flank.
Heavy French guns now being brought up are counted upon to
assist in a further advance of the heavy pounding on the southerly
side of the German salient south and east of Contalmaison.
French Gain in Surprise Attack
The French were busy with minor operations last night on the
Somme front, making a successful surprise attack near Belly-en-
Santerre and gaining ground east of Estress in hand grenade oper
ations. They reported the capture of 400 additional prisoners.
There has been violent artillery activity in the Verdun sector
but no resumption of infantry attack.
(Other War News on Page 4)
THE WEATHER
For HarrlNhurs; and vicinity * Gen
erally fulr >veather to-night and
Sunday, cooler.
For Eaßtern Peunnylvanin: (Gener
ally fair to-night and Sunday,
cooler; moderutc north and
northwest wind*.
River
The Susquehanna river nnd all it*
tributaries will continue to full
slowly to-night and prohahly
Sunday. A itage of about 3.H
feet Is indicated for Harrlsliurg
Sunday morning.
General Conditions
tropical disturbance la now
central over >orthern Alabama.
It has canned continued heavy
rains In the last twenty-four
hour* from Tennessee southward
to the Gulf of Mexico and show
ers In Florida. At Birmingham*
Ala., 10.70 inches of rain had fal
len In forty-eight hour* ending
at H p. in.. Friday, and Mont
gomery reports 7.04 Inches dur
ing the forty-eight hours ending
at H a. ni. to-day. At Chatta
nooga, Tenn., 3.2© Inches have
fallen In tlie last twenty-four
hours.
Temperature: K a. m., 72.
Sunt Rises, 4:44 a. m.| sets, 7:35
p. m.
Mooni Full moon, Jaly 14, 0:33
p. m.
River Stage: 4 feet abo>e low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 00.
liowest temperature, 01.
Mean temperature, 70.
Normal temperature, 74.
teQs
m
At the Seashore or up In the
mountains, no matter where you
go to spend your vacation, the
Harriaburg Telegraph will be sure
to reach you every day. Your
vacation will not be complete un
less your favorite newspaper
spends the time with you.
Drop a postal or call the Circu
lation Dept.
BY CARRIERS 0 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
THREE DIE, FOUR
ARE INJURED WHEN
TRAIN HITS AUTO
Reading Train Hits Party on
Way to Family Reunion;
Women All Escape
By Associated Press
Reading, Pa., July B.—Three people
were killed and four others had nar
row escapes from instant death when
an automobile in which they were
riding was struck by a westbound
train on the Reading railway at Han
cock station this morrdng.
The party were on their way to the
annual reunion of the Rohrbach fam
ily and were within a half square of
[Continued on Page 4]
Son Would Break Will.
Which Awards Millions
Washington, D. C., July B.—Edward
Beale McLean, sole heir, yesterday In
stituted legal proceedings to break the
will of his father, John R. McLean,
publisher and financier, who died
June 9, leaving a fortune at between
$16,000,000 and 120,000,000. The pe
tition charges that the testator ' was
not of sound and disposing mind nor
capable of making or executing a valid
deed or contract" at the time the will
was made.
Ex-Secretary of State Elihu Root,
John B. Stanchfleld and Wilton J.
Lambert, Mr. McLean's Washington
attorney, compose part of the array of
legal talent engaged by the son to
break h's will.
ABANDON' DKCIjARATION *
By Associated Press
Paris, July B.—The French govern
ment, following the example of Great
Britain, has abandoned the Declara
tion of London as an interpretation of
maritime international law,
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 8, 1916.
Officers Who Will Lead Companies D and I to Border
BSh^
Commissioned officers of the local companies of the Eighth Regiment,
who expect to leave Mount Gretna to-morrow with their men for the Mexi
can boraer.
Above, from left to right, are Second Lieutenant Robert D. Jenkins,
Captain Frank E. Ziegler and First Lieutenant Charles H. Chambers, of
Company I. Below, from left to right, are First Lieutenant Josiah P. Wil
bar, Second Lioutcnant James T. Long and Captain John T. Bretfz, of Com
pany D.
FEWER FATALITIES
IN BIG EPIDEMIC
18 Children Die in New York
Over Night of Infantile
Paralysis
By Associated Press
New York, July 8. Although this
was the hottest day since the begin
ning of the epidemic of infantile par
alysis, two weexs ago, there were
fewer fatalities from the disease than
yesterday. During the 24 hours pre
ceding 10 o'clock this morning the
[Continued on Page 4]
Boy Swallows Acid in
Golf Ball; May Die
Greenwich, C'onn., July 8. biting
into the center of a golf ball may cost
Charles Andria, 12 years old, the son
of Mr. and 51 is. Lawrence Andria, of
Greenwich, his life, according to phy
sicians. The bey bit the ball, which
contained acid, and it Is believed he
swallowed a quantity of the poison.
Moose to Give Free Ice
to Harrisburg's Poor
At the last meeting of the Harris
burg lodge. Loyal Order of Moose of
Harrisburg, the entertainment commit
tee were instructed to make arrange
ments for the distributing of one ton
of Ice each day to the poor of the city
at the Moose home. Third and Boas
streets, during the week of their sum
mer carnival, starting Monday, July 10
to 15 inclusive.
On account of the large amount of
work Imposed on the committee it is
requested that people wanting Ice call
at the home about 8 In the morning.
This Is just one of many way that the
lodge employs to assist the poor. The
money derived from the coming carni
val will be placed in the charity fund
of the lodge. The committee suggests
that the people calling for the ice
bring a basket along or something to
carry the ice home In.
"General Carranza" Kicks
Locomotive From Track
Sunbury, Pa., July 8. "General
Carranza." a mule owned by James
E. Drumm, of Upper Augusta town
ship, Northumberland county, kicked
a locomotive off the track yesterday.
The mule, harnessed to a wagon in
which Mr. and Mis. Drumm were rid
ing. was crossing the tracks where
the animal suddenly stopped and be
gan to kick.
A train was coming, and the en
gineer could not stop it before the
wagon was struck lightly. The mule
kicked the cowcatcher, and the loco
motive bucked under the brakes and
Jumped the tracks. A derrick was
needed to replace it, while General
Carranza retired unhurt.
1 DEAD, 20 HURT
IN POWDER BLAST
Du Pont Mill Grinding 500
Pounds of Blasting Grains
Wrecked
By Associated Press
Wilmington, Del., July B.—John
Salvango, 30 years old, was instantly
killed and a score or more of other
workmen were slightly hurt in an ex
plosion in the Hagley yard of the
DuPont Powder Company at Henry
Clay, near Wilmington, at 7:18
o'clock this morning.
A corning mill, in which 500 pounds
of blasting powder was being ground
into a grainy substance, was com
pletely wrecked, and a box manu
facturing mill and tinshop, nearby, all
connected with the DuPont plant were
damaged, while the post office and a
number of dwellings at Henry Clay
sustained broken windows.
The origin of the explosion is not
known. Salvango, operator of the
mill, had just started it from the out
side, but had not gotten far away
when the explosion occurred. His
body was blown about 200 yards away
but was not mutilated. He was mar
ried only two months ago.
The entire city and surrounding
country were rudely shaken by the
shock of the explosion.
Brute Beats His Mother
Who Is 102 Years Old
Kansas City. Mo., July B.—Elmer
Stafford, of 2416 East Twenty-third
street, was fined »500 by Judge Kair
nan in the South Side municipal court
yesterday on a charge of beating his
mother, who is 102 years old. The
mother on account of her advanced
years, was unable to attend court, hut
neighbors testified that Stafford came
home on Wednesday, had been drink
ing and slapped his mother several
times as she was sitting on the front
porch.
ADD 40 MINUTES TO TIME OF
TECH HIGH SCHOOL HOURS
Technical High School students re
turning to school in September will
be compelled to stay in school until
3:10 o'clock in the afternoon instead
of 2:30 o'clock, the time of dismissal
in former years. The additional period
of forty minutes was added yesterday
on" recommendation of Director Bretz,
at the regular School Board meeting!
It was explained that the added time
was needed to avoid trouble with study
schedules. The ruling will not affect
the Central High School.
The Board yesterday authorized a
loan of SIB,OOO to pay the bills for this
month, as Tax Collector Oves is Just
sending out the tax bills for the year
at the Increased rate of ten mills.
PENN-MARY CO.
TAKES OVER PA.
AND MD. STEEL
Will Operate Holdings of Two
Companies Under Long
Term Lease
CONTROLLED BY SCHWAB
Executive Department Offices
Will Be Located at South
Bethlehem
Formal control of the Pennsylvania
Steel Co., and the Maryland Steel Co..
with all their subsidiaries, has been
taken over by the recently incorpor
ated Penn-Mary Steel Co., of South
Bethlehem, Pa., a subsidiary of the
Steel Company, which will
operate the various plants under a
long lease.
In connection with the transfer of
property, the following statement was
issued at South Bethlehem, July 7,
over the signatures of E. G. Grace,
president of the Bethlehem Steel Co.,
and E C. Felton, president of the
Pennsylvania Steel Co.
"All of the properties and busi
nesses as going concerns of the
Pennsylvania Steel Company and
Maryland Steel Company have
this day been acquired by the
Penn-M&ry Steel Company, a sub
sidiary of the Bethleherr Steel
Company, and such properties
and businesses will hereafter be
operated under lease by Bethle
hem Steel Company, which has
taken over all contracts, has ac-
quired all current accounts and is
prepared to meet all outstanding
obligations of such companies
when due.
"AH unfinished contracts of
these companies will be carried
out and performed by Bethlehem
Steel Company without interrup
tion.
"The books of account will be
kept at, and all payments will be
made from South Bethlehem, Pa.,
and checks lor accounts due to
the Pennsylvania Steel Company
or Maryland Steel Company,
should*bo drawn to the order of
the Bethlehem Steel Company
and mailed to South Bethlehem,
Pa.
"The executive, treasury, ac
counting, sales and purchasing
departments will have their head
quarters at South Bethlehem, Pa.,
to which letters intended for their
attention should be addressed.
Signed,
"BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.,
E. G. Grace. President,
"PENNSYLVANIA STEEL CO.,
E. C. Felton, President."
Deed Recorded Here
At Harrisburg simultaneously with
the issuance of the statement at South
Bethlehem, a deed for tke transfer of
all property of the Pennsylvania Steel
Co., to the Penn-Mary Steel Co. was
tiled.
The transfer called for a considera
tion of $10,167,297 and revenue
stamps to the extent of $6,082 were
attached. At the same time a mort
gage for $60,000,000 was filed against
the property with the Bankers' Trust
Co., trustee, of New York, as holder.
This is the largest mortgage ever
filed in Dauphin county, so far as re
cords in the recorder's office show.
The next largest mortgage was filed
this year by the Cumberland Valley
Telephone Company.
Soldiers' Families Need
Money; Who Will Assist?
One Contribution Today
The fund for the relief of Harris
burg soldiers' families was increased
to-day by $25, contributed by Albert
Koenig, proprietor of the Maple
Grove Hotel, at Sixth and Maclay
streets.
Money is badly needed for this pur
pose. The Harrisburg chapter of the
Women's Preparedness division has a
number of applications but is unable
to do much because of lack of funds.
Contributions no matter how small
will be gratefully received and
promptly acknowledged through the
columns of the Telegraph.
Woman Told She Must Die
Spends Last Days Happily
Salina, Kan., July B.—Told by her
physicians that she had less than a
week to live, Mrs. Otis Wallace, who
drank a solution of bichloride of mer
| cury here on the morning of July 4, is
! spending her last days happily,
i She says that she suffers no pains
and feels like enjoying herself. Card
games and music furnish amusements
for the doomed woman. Her husband
is constantly with her and has eastern
specialists attending her.
FOR CAPITOL BASEBALL LEAGUE
Organization of a State Capitol Base
hall League will be effected Monday
at a meeting in offices of the State
Insurance Fund. Departments which
already have indicated their intention
of placing teams in the league are
the Insurance P'und, Health. Labor
and Industry, Highway and Game
Commisison. The schedule will be
held open ten days from July 10 for
any other departments which may
wish to enter the league. The teams
will play twilight games throughout
the summer.
VOTING ON AMENDMENTS
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., July B.—The
flouse to-day entered upon the third
day of debate on the administration
revenue bills which is intended to
bring in an additional $197,000,000
next year from income, inheritance
and munitions taxes. Contrary to ex
pectations, general debate was not
concluded yesterday, but a time limit
was set at 1.30 p. m. to-day, when
voting on amendments began. A final
vote will be reached before adjourn
ment Monday.
STRIKE GAS AT 120 FEET
Sinetl'.port, Pa., July B.—Another big
gns gusher has just been struck in the i
Crosby gas field, neat- here, which is l
rapidly growing into onn of the richest
uas fields in the State. The well, which
Is flowing at a rate of 3.000,000 cubic
feet of gas a day, is owned by the
United Natural Gas Company,
HOLD GUARDSMEN
IN READINESS TO
REPULSE BANDITS
TFoops For 200 Miles East of El
Paso Prepared to Move to
Any Threatened Point
HEADED FOR BOBDER
Newly Organized Bands Re
ported by Carranza Moving
Northward in Chihuahua
E1 Paso, July B.—A terrific
battle is reported to be raging
south of .limine* betweeji 800
Villa bandiK and 1200 cavalrymen
under Gen. Arrieta supported by
800 Infantrymen.
By Associated Press
San Antonio, Tex., July B.—For
more than 200 miles eastward from
El Paso, American troops were being
held in readiness to-day to move to
any point on the border that might
be threatened by the newly-organized
bandits in Chihuahua.
Early morning reports to General
Funston added nothing, however, to
the rumors of yesterday, most impor
tant of which was-the warning from
the de facto government of Mexico
that bandits, who defeated Carranza's
soldiers near Jimenez, were believed
to be moving northward toward Ojin
aga, opposite Presidio, Texas.
Villa in the Lead?
Colonel Gaston, commanding the
American forces in the Big Bend dis
trict. was authorized by General
Funston to make such disposition of
his troops as he deemed wise to pre
vent bandits crossing the river.
Although taking all precautions and
not minimizing the reports that Villa
himself is at the head of the new or
ganization of bandit's army officers to
day were not inclined to believe the
bandits would make any movement in
force towards the North, especially
if led by \ ilia. The opinion of army
officers generally was that the ban
dits would confine their activity for a
time in harrassing the Carranza
troops south of Chihuahua.
General Pershing's retirement from
points in this region would leave the
pursuit there to Carranza's army that
has closed in as General Pershing's
army moved northward.
New York, July B.—Charles E. Hughes made an un- j
expected visit to New York to-day from Bridgehampton. I
I He came for one purpose that of selecting Republican £
electors from .'ennsylvania a:, required by the law of that |
I State, iie went over with Chairman Wilcox, of the National TP
Committee, the names of electors submitted by the Pen:i- f
l sylvania delegation to the National Convention which in- «
elude both Republicans and Progressives. An approved list *
was then dispatched to Harrisburg. A'
Harrisburg.—Late this afternoon no list had been re- „ »
* i '
ceived at the Capitol. [|
TO OBSERVE LAW OF NATIONS
1 London, July B.—ln accordance with the recent de- j
cision of the British government to discontinue the partial I
1 enforcement of the Declaration of London, new orders have j *
been issued declaring i. to-be the intention of Great Britain
I and her allies to exercise their belligerent rights at sea in* >
I strict accordance with the laws of nations. I »
ROCKEFELLER PLAYS GOLF ON BIRTHDAY
1 Cleveland, July B.—John D. Rockefeller celebrated his' *
seventy-seventh birthday here to-day by playing golf. He
1 appears in splendid health. • >
AUSTRIANS ADMIT WITHDRAWAL
I Berlin, July B.—The withdrawal of Teutonic line along! !
■ the bend of the Styr river in Volhynia, where the advanced* »
positions were exposed to pressure from notably superior
I hostile forces, was announced in the Austro-Hungarian I >
report.
, FORD FOR PRESIDENT ON PROHIBITION TICKET | *
Chicago, July 8. —Eugene W. Chafin, twice nominee !
for the Prohibition party for president, announced here to- ( >
day that he would work for the nomination of Henry Ford
, for president of the United States at the Prohibition
National Convention at St. Paul two weeks hence.
Berlin, July B.—German troops on both sides of the
1 Somme in the field of the entente offensive along the' '
western front have repulsed with heavy losses repeated at
■ tacks by the British and French, Berlin reports. . * ►
MARRIAGE LICENSES
r " ■
I I.enter CornelhiM Hockenninlth, Zollinger, Pa., and Bertha Love Man. 1
I hon, Tliermont, l*u.
Victor l.uriic Flnher, Baltimore, mid Katie Pearl Alliaon, Settcland, Pa.
Samuel Jamea Bowman, KUhervlUe, and Annie Grace I.ebo, I
n ■■ *■ VI" mVI' »11 > n i
CITY EDITION
18 PAGES
FOURTH RAZES
TENTS BEFORE
TAKING TRAINS
Will Leave Today; Eighth
Regiment Starts For Border
Tomorrow
ICE FOR COL. FINNEY'S MEN
El Pasoans Will Have Refresh
ments Ready; 500 Passengers
and 200 Freight Cars Used
By Associated Press
Mount Gretna. Pa., July B.—Another
batch of drab tents dotting the hills
und valleys of Mount Gretna 1s dis
appearing to-day as the Fourth Infan
try Regiment is razing Its camp. The
Fourth will leave this afternoon and
to-morrow the Eighth Regiment will
fodlow. The last to get away will be
Field Hospital No. 1 and Ambulance
Company No. 1. both of Pittsburgh.
They will entrain Sunday noon.
If. the Mexican situation had nol
grown tense, Pennsylvania's National
Guard units would now be assembling
here to-day. The customary summer
maneuver camp was to have opened
to-day.
Colonel Finney, commander of the
Klghth Infantry, received word to-da>
that Richard E. Wilson, through the
Southeastern branch of the America!
Red Cross Society, will contribute ?50t
worth of ice to the command when I'
arrived In El Paso. The ice will b
sent to Lieutenant Tullidge, one of th
surgeons.
Approximately 800 passenger coache
and 200 fregiht cars have been sen
out of Mount Gretna since Thursday :
week ago. Trocp trains parsing ove
Philadelphia and Reading lines weri
composed of 151! day coaches, 3 com
blnation cars, 17 sleepers and 18 bag
gage cars.
l!llt(.l,\HS START I'IRK,
CAUSING GI'KSTS TO I'LEI
By Associated Press
Chicago, 111., July B. Burglars wh
attempted to blow a safe on the sec
ond floor of an adjoining office earl
to-day caused a tire which sent rn'or
than a hundred guests of the ChicaK
Hotel, In South Clark street, to tli
street in night attire. A charge o
nitroglycerin started the blaze.
