I' llead, J$6.50; spelter, $10.50; copper, f X VV ' w vw M
I $25.00, $26.00$29.00. ij Wj WEATHER Utah: Local Thunder 1
I: U. I - Showers This Afternoon or Tonight; H
I'X I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. , Sunday GeneralIy Fair- ' ' f.H
V Forty' vcar-No. 163. Pr.ce Five cent,. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 8, 1916 ' trZ H
" Enteredas Second C,aSs Matter at th. Portofflcef17don. Utah, "l
Russians Driving Back the Teutons I
' & ' , db . . I
jVfen, Guns and Equipment Captured I
RUSSIANS CONTINUE TO DRIVE
k BACK THE AUSTRO-GERMANS
.
Notable Progress in Volhynia Movement on Important Rail
I ' t way Center of Kovel Gaining in Force New Advance
k , in Force New Advance in Galicia Germans De
jS 1 veloping Formidable Resistance Between Riga
.m 5 and Volhynia Storms Hinder Operations y
( j J - on West Front French Deliver Sur-
jj3j 'jr - prise Attack Violent Attacks
j ? Ut - on Verdun.
Petrograd, July 8, via London, 7 :45 p. m. The Russians
nave pressed back the Germans further into the sector of
; - Czartorysk, occupying several more towns. More than 2,000
" men were captured yesterday.
1 The announcement follows:
! "In the region of the lower Styr, west of the Czartorysk
' sector we are closely pressing the enemy. After the battle
yesterday we occupied the Gorodok-Maneivichi station
i L Okansk-Rovoroka-Gruziatyn line. In yesterday's combats 75
officers and 2,000 men were taken prisoner in the zone of the
railway line and in the Gruziat3'n region.
"East of iyionasterzysk (Galicia) we took possession of
, the village of Gregoriv carrying off more than 1 ,000 prison-
it
ers.
V
! f Petrograd, July 8, via London, 7 :98 p. m. In Galicia the
I Russians have made, further progress againt the army ot Count
von Bothmer. In this war theater the Russians captured more
than 1 ,000 men yesterday.
"In the region of Optevo a great number of Austrians
were sabred during pursuit of the 'enemy after a cavalry
:harge. More than 600 men, five cannon, six machine guns
and three machine gun detachments with complete equipment
were captured.
"Prisoners continue to arrive in masses. We have taken '
Dossession of a great quantity of arms, stores of munitions and
Dther articles.
I "According to latest information we have occupied the
' villages of Letchnievka and Griva, north of the market town
of Gorodok and ten kilometers from the Stokhod river."
Berlin, July 8, via London, 4:55 p. m. German troops
on both sides of the Somme, in the field of the entente offen
sive along the western front, have repulsed with heavy losses
repeated attacks by the British and French, the war office an
I nounced today.
I While the entente allies on the west
i ' orn 'front have been, temporarily handi
capped by heavy rains in the further
pushing of their offensive, the Russi
ans under General Brusiloff are con
l tinulng to drive back the Teutonic
lines in the east. Further notable
progress has been iriade by the Itus-
iBians in Volhynia where their move
ment upon the important railway cen
ter of Kovel is gaining In force. In
rt Galicia a new advance of the Russians
, is reported. In the region between
Riga and Volhynia the Germans are
I developing more formidable reslst-
ance.
In the field of the western offensive
of the allies a rainy night was era
, ployed chiefly by the British in
strengthening positions won yester
I day. The French were busy with mln
j or operations on the Somme front,
' making a successful surprise attack
near Belloy-en-Santerre and gaining
it around east of Estres in hand grenade
operations.
Petrograd, Friday, July 7. Via Lon
don, July 8, 8 '.35. a. m. The Russian
Advance in the-Cartorysk region, in
which the attacking German troops
were thrown back" yesterday, has been
'pushed further. The war office to
oiight announcedr the capture of the
j .villages of Dolzyyos and Gruziatyn.
I The number of'German and Austrian
I prisoners continues to increase.
i The statemenfigfollows:
f Y "Our troops .continue to develop
1 Mheir successes iffjthe region west of
of the Czartorysjel sector on the river
j village of Gradyland after a hot bay-
onet encounter, tEc village of Dolzyca,
q the main roadjbetween Kolki and
I Manevilchl andjtho village of Gru
riatyn were taken- The number of
I German and Austrian prisoners con-
t tinues to increase
"'On the front outh of the Stokhod
I river the enemy maintaining a very
I violent fire in numerous sectors. North
j of the lower Llpa. under cover of
i artillery fire, tlip enemy attempted
' to take the offenllyo in the region of
Skiien and Duboyvg, but was repulsed.
yC The artillery firp continues."
" Many ArtMery Duels.
I "On the Galiciaji front there were
'a artillery duels any points. East
1 of MonasterzyslcMj on the Koropiec
rlver, our troopslpontinue to press
Mk the enemy. WVest of Sadzavki,
HDHor Delatyn," captured a posi-
WKyf the enemyljpd took somepris-
if I 1
"Southeast of Lake Narocz the Ger
mans made a fierce counter attack
and re-conquered part of the trenches
they lost yesterday. The fighting
continues.
Violent Counter-Attacks.
"On a considerable part of the front
between the upper Niemen and the
Pinsk marshes there were violnt ar
tillery duels. East of Baranovici in
the region of Odchovotchina the Ger
mans pressed us back slightly ns a
result of a violent counter attack, but
our concentrated fire compelled the
Germans to withdraw. In the Barano
vichi region our machine guns en
gaged in duels with German machino
guns in the course of several night
attacks and reduced them to silence."
Paris, July 8, 12:30 p. m. The
French made a further advance last
night on the Somme in the vicinity of
Belloy-en-Santerre and Estres, the war
office announced today.
The gains as a whole In this sector
were not large, operations being hin
dered by bad weather. Several hun
dred Germans were captured.
On the Verdun front there wore
violent artillery engagements particu
larly in the region of Hill 304, Estnes
and Souville.
French Official Statement.
"Bad weather hindered operations
on the Somme front yesterday and.
last night. A surprise attack deliv
ered by the French yesterday evening
in the vicinity of Belloy-en-Santerre
was in all respects successful. "We
captured 350 prisoners. East of Esr
tres our troops made progress with
hand grenades in the communicating
trenches of the enemy; fifty prison
ers were taken by us.
"North of LASsigney a detachment
of the enemy which was endeavoring
to occupy one of our minor posts was
dispersed by infantry fire.
Violent Fighting at Verdun.
"North of Verdun there has been
violent artillery fighting, particularly
in the sectors of Hill 304, Estnes, Sou
ville and at the Damloup battery.
There were, however, no infantry en
gagements. "In Lorraine we cleaned up with
hand grenades a German post near
Bezange and brought back a few pris
oners." British Continue to Advance.
London, July 8, Noon. With the
aid of innumerable guns and waves of
infantry the British army continues to
make .slow progress In Its effort to
F
bring the front line between the An-cre-and
Montauban on a level with
the French line further south, the
French having pushed further ahead
than their allies This effort on the
part of the British has led to the
most furious fighting in which the
British troops have been engaged. The
flower of the German army has been
brought forward to oppose them and
men and ammunition are being used
lavishly.
According to reports from Holland,
Belgium has been denuded of German
soldiers to meet the Anglo-French of
fensive and the railway stations even
in the larger towns are guarded by the
older reservists.
Paying Heavy Price.
In London, the reports of the British
commander, General Sir Douglas Halg,
are awaited eagerly and although the
arrival of wounded tells the price
which is being paid for the advance,
the news of the small gains is being
received with quiet satisfaction.
Notwithstanding the enormous call
upon German reserves for the battle
in Picardy, the German crown prince
has resumed the offensive at Verdun
and yesterday made further repeated
attacks near Thiaumout work without
meeting any success.
Russians Continue Driving.
In the east things are moving more
rapidly. The Russians are making
progress in their drives against the
important railway junctions at Dela
tyn In Galicia, Kovel and Volhynia and
Baranovichi north of the Pripet marsh
es. Little news has been received in re
gard 10 the fighting in the region of
Baranovichi. In Galicia and Volhynia,
however, the Teutons admit the with
drawal of their line the retirement
having been forced by the rapid ad
I vance of the Russians in Volhynia
and the successful manner in which
they dealt with the German counter
offensive on the Lutsk frontier. Ac
cording to unofficial reports Delatyn
is surrounded on three sides and the
Russians having cut the easternmost
lines of retreat across the Carpathi
ans are on the flank of the Austrians'
new defensive llne. running through
Stanislau and Halicz. General von
Bothmer may be compelled to fall
back even farther before he reaches J
safety. j
Advancing all along the line of the
Lutsk salient, thevRusslans are now
threatening Kovel from three points.
Capture of prisoners continues and
according to Russian estimates the '
total for a month's fighting is not far
short of a quarter of a million.
Western Front News.
Berlin, July S, via London, 11:40 a.
m. Today's news from the western
front throws little light on the fight
ing during the last 24 hours but the
advances show that the fighting in
the period immediately preceding was
most Intense at threo points, at
Thiepval, around Hem and the region ,
eight to ten miles south of the Somme
river.
In the Thiepval sector there was a
succession of bitter attacks and coun
ter attacks. The British several times
succeeded by violent assaults in ob
taining a foothold in Thiepval but
each time were ejected from the ruins
of the village. Their losses are de
scribed as"extraordmarly heavy."
- The only British success, and this
is declared to be unimportant, was
the capture of a salient of German
trenches east of La' Boisclle only a
chnrt Mxtance east of the original
German line. From La Boiselle south
ward the fighting was of a local char
actor. The Germans have thrown a strong
dam around the British flood wave and
isolated attempts to break the dam
have been unsuccessful.
Capture of Hem.
The capture of Hem was accom
plished by the French only after three
desperate attempts. The first two
onslaughts although delivered with
great force and determination were
repulsed. The third assault gave
them possession ot the village and
enabled them to stralghton out their
line between Curlu and Feuillers.
Fighting at Estres and Belloy En
Santerre was also of a house to,
house and hand to hand character.
The wave of battle swept back and
forth with both French and Germans
resorting chiefly to the use of the
bayonet and hand grenades and fight
ing with the utmost desperation. The
losses,, as to be expected In this sort
of fighting, were very heavy. The
French finally remained masters of
tjeuoy.
German Commanders Prepared.
The German commanders have pre
pared for y.ttacks by the French or
British to extend the front of the of
fensive or Tor a renewed attack at
new places on the long front as yet no
serious endeavor in this direction has'
been reported,
Russians Meet Heavy Loss.
Berlin, July S, via London, 4:57 p.
m. Heavy attacks by the Russians
against German troops of Prince Leo
pold in the Baranovichi region have
been repulsed with the loss of thous
ands In dead to the attacking forccH,
according to today's official war of
fice announcement
Russian assaults north of Buczaz in
Galicia alsq were fruitless and in Vol
hynia the Germans gained advant
ages south of Lutsk.
The statement regarding operations
on the ..western front says:
."On both sides of the Somme our ,
heroism prepared for the enemy a day
full of delusions. Numerous and con
tinuously repeated attacks were re
pulsed with sanguinary losses. The
enormous loss of fallen Englishmen
before Ovillers Contalmaison Baz
entlne Le Grande sector and of fallen
Frenchmen before Blaches Soyecourt
front give an indication of the masses
of enemy forces employed for the at
tacks and of the devastating effect of
our artillery, machine gun and infan
try fire. On the right bank of the
Meuse the enemy continues to sacri
fice his men in strong fruitless as
saults against our positions on Froide
Terre hill. II has not been able to
win a foot of ground. Several hundred
prisoners fell Into our hands.
"Weak advances against the Dam
loup hill battery were easily repulsed.
Artillery and patrol activity on the re
mainder of the front was lively in
places. An attack made by about one
company of French in the Boise Lo
Pretre failed."
East Front Operators.
The statement on operations along
the east front says:
"Eastern front: Army group of
Field Marshal von Hindenberg: Dur
ing the repulse of repeated attacks
south of Lake Narocz we captured two
officers and 210 men. We repeled
weak advances at other points.
"Army group of Prince Leopold of
Bavaria: Repeated efforts by strong
Russian forces since yesterday against
the front from Zirin to the southeast
of Gorodische and on both sides of the
Darovo ended in failure. The dead
lying before our positions numbered
thousands. The enemy lost a consider
able number of prisoners. Fresh en
gagements are now progressing.
"Army group of General Linsingen:
South of Lutsk we gained some ad
vantages. "Army group of Count .von Bothmer:
Northwest of Buczaz Russian attempts
to attack were fruitless.
"Balkan theater: There were artil
lery duels of np special importance
between the Vardar and Doiran
Lakes," , r
More Guns Captured.
London, July 8, 2:01 p. nV The op
erations of the British army "on the
Somme "front between the Ancre and
Somme rivers has again been impeded
by unusually heavy rain, the war of
fice announced today.
During the last few. days the Brit
ish have captured 20 guns and 51 ma
chine guns.
The announcement follows:
"A very heavy rain which fell .on
the afternoon and evening yesterday
impeded operations and between the
Ancre and the Somme the night Was
chiefly spent in improving the for
ward positions gained in yesterday's
fighting.
"In the neighborhood of Gomme
court we bombarded the enemy's
trenches with field t guns and trench
mortars.
"Near Neuville St. Vaast in north
ern France southwest of Lens) and
north of Rocllncourt the enemy show
ed some activity yesterday. He ex
ploded a mine northeast of the for
mer place without doing any dam
age to our line. The enemy also ex
ploded a mine among the existing
craters near the Hohernzollern re
doubt Without gaining any advantage.
Northeast of Hulluch we sprang a
mine to destroy a hostile gallery.
Aeroplanes' Valuable Service.
"Despite unfavorable weather our
aeroplanes rendered vnluable service.
Iu addition wun acuve co-uimiciLiuu
with the artillery at reconnaissance
work they bomb a hostile aerodrome
at Douai, completely wrecking a han
gar and doing other material dam
age. "In the last few days wo captured
20 guns, 51 machine guns, a large
number of automatic rifles, trench
mortars, mine flrera, canister throw
ers nnd searchlights, and a mass of
other war material not yet scheduled."
Turks Repulse Russians.
Constantinople, 'July 8, via London,
4-50 p. m. Russian troops iu the Cau
casus have made vain efforts to cap
ture positions taken by the Turks and
were repulsed with large losses the
war office announced today. The
statement says;
"In the Tchoruk sector insignifi
cant local fighting continues. Our
troops took from the enemy another
portion of his positions north of the
Tchoruk on our left wing. Counter nt
tacks made bj the enemy were re
pulsed completely with enormous loss
es for the attacking forces. In the
course of fruitless onslaughts the ene
my left before our positions 400 dead.
Guns, a quantity of ammunition, a
case of rifles tents, equipment and
other materials fell into our possession.
uu
BRITISH MEASURES
VIOLATE LAW
London, July 8, 3; 37 a. m. The
German government, acording to Reu
ter's Amsterdam correspondent, has
handed to representatives of the neu
tral powers in Berlin a memorandum
dated June 17 which deals with British
measures, alleged to be contrary to
international law against commercial
first entertaining commercial relations
with Germany. J
aggp-'T-- -- r-
DECLARATION (F
LONDON FAILS
French Government, Abandons
Agreement With Statement
of Reasons" for So Doing.
ORIGINAL LAW BEST
Will Rigidly Adhere to Inter
national Law and Make
Compensation for Any
Unjustifiable Damage.
Paris, July S, S a m The French
government, following the example of
Great Britain; has abandoned the De
claration of London as an interpreta
tion of international law. A decree
to that effect appears in this morn
ing's Official Journal.
A memorandum accompanying the
decree says that the rules of the Lon
don declaration were adopted bv the
entente allies at the beginning o'f the
war as being most expedient, but that
experience has shown that they did
not give the results expected, in se
curing to the belligerents a full exer
cise of rights, or affording adequate
guarantees to neutrals. Consequently,
I mo memorandum continues, circum
stances obliged the allies to modify
the rules of the declaration. But these
successive modifications led to false
Interpretations of the allies' motives,
therefore, they decided it were better
to return to the original principles of
international law as generally accept
ed. In so doing, the memorandum con
cludes. J.he allies declare solemnly
they will continue fo observe the prin
ciples, rigidly respeotiug lives and pro
perty of neutrals and being ready to
made compensation for any unjusti
fiable damage caused to bonafide
merchants.
oo
FINCH WATCH
Great Natural and Artificial
Difficulties Met With All
Success Humanly
Possible. Paris, July S, 4:45 a. m. The
French are watching with admiration
the fight or the British troops in the
sector north of the Somme river. The
great natural an dartificial difficulties
with which they have to contend are
realized and all agree that they are
uoing as mucn as humanly possible.
French military opinion is that the
German positions are so strong and
so well furnished with lines of com
munication that the British will be
able to accomplish little more until
the heavy French guns are installed
Inside the French salient whence they
can enfilade the German positions op
posed to the British. As these guns of
305 and 400 millimeters are mounted
on railroad trucks, time Is required
to lay tracks for their movement
which has to bo done carefully. The
French are so solidly established that
the work will soon be completed and
It is ascertained that these guns will
not be long In making their Influence
felt.
I ORPET JURORS
IAR REBUTTAL
i
Toxicologist Called to Stand
Undertaker, Who Cared
for Marion's Body,
Cross-examined.
"Waukegau, Ills., July 8.j-The Orpet
Jury, referred to some times by cer
tain of Its members asa class in
chemistry listened to further ques
tions and answers appertaining to the
subject of cyanide of potassium with
which poison Will H. Onjet is alleged
to have murdered Marion Lambert.
The witness was Dr. AlpsjW. Webster,
a toxicologist, cnlled iul rebuttal by
the state. I
"You testified on direct examina
tion that. Marlon Lambert died of li
quid cyanide of potassium. Have' you
changed your opinion sfiice?" asked;
Ralph F. Potter of counsel for the de
fense. "I have not," answered Dr. Web
ster. Undertaker Is Cross-examined.
1 -Fred1 I. "Wenban, tho undertaker
I
J '
HAS CHARGE OF
BASE HOSPITAL
Col. J. R. Kean.
Col. J. R. Kean, U. S..A., is director
of military relief, American Red
Cross. It is his duty to organize
base hospital units throughout tho
United States, especially near the
border, to care for the wounded
troopers who have passed beyond the
first aid stage. He has already or
ganized twenty of these units in the
larger cities of the country. A hos
pital with ample facilities is usually
chosen.
who cared for Marion's body and who
was the first, according to testimony,
to notice the spots on Marion's cloak
was the next witness. There has
been insinuations by the defense that
the spots, alleged, to have been made
by cyanide, were placed there by
some one interested in the prosecu
tion. "Did you put those spots there?"
asked State's Attorney Dady.
"I did not," replied Mr. Wenban.
Cross-examination was perfunctory
and brief.
MANY PROBLEMS
Country Must Confine Atten
tion to West for Many Years
and Rely on Solidarity
With Japan.
Petrograd, July 8, via London, 10:48
a. m In an interview In the Bourse
Gazette on the Russo-Japanese agree
ment, Sergius Sazonoff, the minister
of foreign affairs says:
"The present war opens a series of
problems for Russia the solution of
which necessitates confining our at
tention to the west for many years.
Relying on our solidarity with Japan
as regards Far Eastern questions, we
can devote all our energies to the so
lution of these problems with the aa
surance that no power will take unftir
advantage of China to carry out its
ambitious plans as was the case of
other countries bordering on Russia In
the east"
oo
WEEK'S FORECAST
OF THE WEATHER
Washington, July 8. Plain states
and upper Mississippi valley: Gen
erally fair and moderately warm, al
though widely scatterde showers are
probable in northern border states.
Rocky moimtaln and plateau re
gions: Generally fair, temperatures
near normal.
Pacific slates: Generally fair ex
cept for widely scattered local show
ers in tho north Pacific states first
part of the week. Temperature near
the seasonal average.
uu -
GERMANS CLAIM VERY
SMALL NAVAL LOSSES
Loudon, July S, 9:24 a. in. A Reuter
dispatch from Amsterdam says that an
official statement issued in Berlin
compares the estimate of German loss
es in the Skagerak naval battle as
contained In Admiral Je'Hco's report
with a report of tho British admlraltv
on Juno 4 and declares;
"In fact the total losses of the Ger
man high seas forces during tho fight
ing of May 31, June 1 and subsequent
ly were only one battle cruiser, one
older ship of the Hue, four smaller
cruisers and seven torpedo boats."
.. , A, -r-HL i. jw iacw-t'.
GARRANZA W 1
OFFER IW PLAN-1
Form of Negotiations With '
Mexico Expected to Be B
Transmitted to Washing- 'tH
ton Today. H
BORDER CANTONMENT fl
Suggestion Rejected by Gen- JM
eral Obregon at Scott- Funs-
ton Conference to Be H
Renewed. H
Washington, July S. Word of Gen- ,,
eral Carranza's decision as to the form " l
diplomatic negotiations for the settle- M
meat of border difficulties should take
.was expected today at the state de- . M
partment. 'jH
It is thought probable the de facto IH
government will authorize Ellseo Arre- j
dondo, ambassador-designate here, to M
talk matters over informally with Act- VH
ing Secretary Polk H
Officials expect that the Carranza 'IH
government will again oTfer the bor- IH
der cantonment plan which first was IH
presented at the El Paso conference M
between Major-General Scott and the ,
Mexican War Minister. General Obre- H
gon. It was rejected at that time H
because immediate withdrawal of Gen- jH
eral Perstiiug's men from Mexico was M
stipulated by General Obregon as a H
condition H
oo H
CARRANZA FORCES I
EXPECT A FIGHT I
General Arrieto Wires Inten- H
tion to Attack Bandits at IB
Calexito Contreras. IH
El Paso, Texas, July 8. Carranza j
forces expected to give battle today to jH
the Villistas who raided Jim Inez, Chi- VM
huahua, according to a report re- IH
ceived this morning by General Gon- IH
zales in Juarez from General TreUno, H
commanding the army of the north. H
Tho message said that 1,200 cavalry- H
men under General Domingo Arrieta, IH
supported by SOO infantry had over- JH
taken the bandits at Las Nievas, south jH
of Jiminez about 2 o'clock this morn- jH
ing. General Arrieta wired General H
Trenivo that he intended to attack
Calexito Contreras and. his followers H
at daybreak. H
oo jM
VILLA ABLE TO WALK
AND TO RIDE HORSE.
Washington, July S. A statement by H
the war department press bureau to- H
day said that more unsupported
rumors had been received of the pres- H
ence of Villa at a place called Canu- H
tillo on tho Rio Florida, west of Par- H
According to the reports, Villa's H
wounds were caused by a bull"' that
passed through the back muscles o H
both sides without striking a bone and H
that he has recovered sufficiently to H
walk with a limp and ride with greater H
oo H
TWO MEXICANS MEET
THE DEATH PENALTY
Douglas, Ariz., July S. Two Mexl- H
cans have been executed in Cananea, jH
Sonora, on charges of looting the H
homes of United States citizens dur- H
ing their absence, according to Gen- H
eral P. Ellas Callcs, military comman- jH
der of the state. IH
Geneial Calles added that lie had IH
ordered the death penalty imposed on H
all persons In tho state caught loot- H
iug or inciting demonstrations against IH
either Americans or the Carranz iH
government. H
1 YAQUIS MASSACRE
CARRANZA SOLDIERS
NogalcB. Ariz.. July S.-Fron, two to M
threo hundred Carranza soldiers anu m
camp followers were fsfla?Jf f J H
Broncho Yaquis early ' hAdS , M
lower Souora,accordIng to to , H
today by arrivals from Urn gJJ ,' H
Mexico. Those qf the de facio u ,
tachment not killed by -gigg H
said, were burned at th .. t H
