_The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRAMCISVILL WEST PLICIAA PARISM, LO.UIHANA.. SATURDAY. JULY 10t.O. 1 1.
RP FOR FAR
The interest displayed by the ladies
of the Pair Association at their meet.
lnl Wednesday is highly gratifying.
The number of ladles who attend this
monthly meeting is constantly increas
in0. They are taking hold with a vim
that augurs well for a saccessful fair.
It is the consensus of opinkion that no
succesaful fair has ever been held
without the cooperation of the ladies.
We have their co6peration - hence a
sucoessful fair ls assured.
The men folks were not so much in
evidence Wednesday. Hut their ab
sence was not due to lark of interest
in the fair. They were busy at home
getting things ready to show at the
fair. We haive reports that indicate
that we are to have one' of the best
live stock shows ever pulled of in any
parish. We have the goods and the
farmers are making preparations to
bring them in.
The secretary reported that the fair
catalogp had been printed and had a
fe-w sample copies to show. The re
maining coples are now ready for dis
tribution. The cooperation of post
masters, bankers, storekeepers and
others is desired to help place these
catalogs whe.re they will do the most
good. If you are impatient to receive
your copy, Just drop a postal card to
the secretary and your copy will be
mailed to you at once.
The secretary was authorized to
secure' a small book for keeping the
minutes of the Association meetings.
and secure envelopes for fair catalogs.
A sgºd' suggestion wa L ide by
Mr Wood Ilis idea is to have the
merchants and others who do coIsid
erable writing to have the announee
maet of the Parish Pair prnlted on
their e'nvelopes. Mr Robinson prom
lies to print these envelopes at such a
reasonable rate that every one can
afford to have the printing done. Step
forward. Mr. Merchat,. Mr. Ranker,
Mr. Insurance Agent. Mr Doctor, Mr.
lawyer. Mr. Candldate, and show your
Interest by having this printing done
and help advertise the fact that we
are going to have a full -edged Parish
FPair this fall. This is about what you
want on your envelope: "West Peli
iana Parish Pair,October 12-13-14. 1916.
tI. Frannciaille, La."
It was moved, seconded and carried
that the secretary order one hundred
pl,lnterd banners to go on the rear of
automobiles. carriages, etc.. advertis
ing the Pair. These banners have been
ordered and will bear the following in
scription: "West P'elidlana Parish Pair,
(Oct. it, 13, 14. 1916." They are of good
quality cloth, printed in waterproof ink.
and have 13 feet of strong tape on each
banner for attaching to ear, All auto
owners and others who wish one of
aeme banners should speak quickly as
the supply Ia limited. They will be in
the hands of the asecretary In ahbut
two weeks. See the ecretary and ask
him to save one for you,
Moved, saonded and arried that
the secretary employ Mr. lDaer to
make plans and speaeideations for the
eoanstruction work necessary for the
fair grounds and that this work be
done at once.
All superitaendent ad lassistant
superintendeata are reanested to pre
pare reports of progress for the next
meeting of the Fair Assoeiation. it is
desired, if possible, to gel a more
definite idea of the anumber of exhlb
Itors who expect to partlcipate in the
Pair. and also the number of exhibitsta
that will be shown. Thl is Is eeesary
ia order that the Fair tsmaaaement
may be able to provide adequate stalla
and other accommodatlions for the ex
hlbtts. De't fall to have your report
ready for the first Wednesday In
August.
Maembers present: President Udward
Rutler, Treasurer W. P. Wood. 8sere
tary R. . ('rulmp: R. 1. .arrow. super
nlatendent agricultural exhibits, and J.
O. Perklas, superiatendent horse and
meek eparteet.
Mr. Perklns reported great interest
and ativity In his section. He named
a balf-doses or more who are prepar
ing live stoek for the live stock show.
aO IDL, WOACS.
There are no idle wordwhtaere children are.
The things sposen in theh Bearinag .rr
far:
Prodceag frtrl of evil oa gd
To ear pest future h.La tethertkosd
speak net theoshtiesty when they are b
Year wards lau not ovn stlrte sell or d4r
ThbuIhts au int plastl winds are irar
rid lUr;
Tees, are so Idleb words where hMase re
NEW STATE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.
At the recent meeting of the Demo
'ratlc Htate. Central ('ommittee. chair
man I. R Thomas appointed the fol
lowing 26 members to serve as an
excurt ive rotmmltter:
ast etrlicians. Wilbur Itennett, ('lin
ton; iealgelin,e Rene D)erouen, Ville
Platte: Jefferson, I. Ii Marrero, Sr.,
Ames'.tlle, lafayette, R. I). 'oorhles.
l.afayette; Madison, J. T. McClellan,
Talulinh; Natchitoches, 1). C(. Scarbo
rough. Natchitohes; from Orleans,
third Aard, W. J. Kane; fifth ward,
Aler I'joi; eighth ward, Patrick J
(ire et'an: tenth ward, I)r. J. A. O'Ilara;
thirt*..nth ward. John T. Michel; ft
teenth ward. M. J. Rooney; Pointe
('oupl,'. James P. (osseraud, New
Roads: Rapides, J. W. Holton, Alexan
dria; itichiand. auncan hule. Ray vile;
8t Mary. Thomas M. Milling Frank
lin. I'tiheio. L . . mAarnes, Pmt'nerville:
West Itnton Rouge. Iforacr Wilkinston,
Port Aie,.: from tmembers at large,
Iken J Italy. New ()Orl."i:s; Philip Wer.
oin. New Orleans; 'aul N ('yr, Jean
e.rette: Phil It. Gilbert. Napoleonville;
1. K. Thomas. e -olelo. Shreveport;
I. ' Weletr. klonaldsonville John W
lea to, (Opelousas.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE.
(New Oilt~ans Times-Picayune )
4il three of the national convention
platformns declare for woman suffrage.
anal there i, an a matter of fact. very
litlle difference between their expres
acitn on this sabject.
t'rhe IRepublican platform says. "The
ht,,Itubliean party " ' ' favors the
etvensieon of suffrage to women, but
recognises the right of each state to
settle this question for itself."
The I)emocratic platform says: "We
recormm,nt.nd the extension of the fran
chine to the women of the country by
ithe states upon the same terms as
to men.'
This Is not satisfactory to many of
the suffragists, who would like to get
what the) antlt, not by the slow prn+ess
of state adoption, but by a national
amendment which would extend the
ballot to all the women of the countr)
at one' stroke Their attention has been
called to the fact that this has been
doAne in only one case, in favor of the
negro; and all parties have had occa
smon to regret this action. As a matter
of fact, iin spite of this franchise amend
nlent. a majority of the negroes do not
vote today. On the other hand, by
puersuing the slower policy of winning
suffrage from the stateos, the women
enjoy the rigllht in eleven states and
far more of them vote today than
nregres, barked as the latter are by a
federal eonstitutional amendment.
The women have failed In several
states by very slim adverse majorities,
which they feel conAfdent of overcom
ing in time. as they did in Oregon.
where. after tweo defeats tey "won
mul." In Mlrchigan they lost one elc
tion by less than a thousand votes, and
in Iowa they were defeated by sn slim
a majority that for severl days It was
bmelieved that the sufrage almendment
had carried. Its chances may be con
eidered as reasonably fair In elghl or
te;n states It will take time to make
ma.ch progresa in some of the others.
Perhaps the vote in the emocratic
national convention will give some
inkling of how the atatee atand on this
questIlon. If a" the outlook for aulfrsae
In most tnoeontaging. In twentytellght
states the vote of the delegations was
unanlmounly in favor of woman Ued
frege, and in live others there wu only
one adverse vote. The strongest oppo
sition huas been thought to he in the
Routh. yet Misaistppl. Artanas., Ten.
nessee. VirgiIa and Uouth Carolina
voted unanimously to give women the
ballot. Texas was one of the leaders
of the opposition, with I2 to 4 votes,
and will probably be the last state to
surrender to the women. Oeorgla stood
23 to 4 agallanst the great, MarIyland
was ananitmosly oppoed to It. North
Carolina and Imltasaa were somewhat
equally aplit, each state votilg I to 12
agaLinat suffrage. (Ohio bas,. by popular
vote, twice in the last few years re
jected suffrae by larle majorlIts, and
has etvidently not ehangad its views on
this point, for it split even on the
quaetio tIn the convention. The only
other srtote oppoittion came from
Indiana. I*ew Jersey and Went Vir
gtini. Oa the other hand, the great
states of New York. Penaeylvalat and
Massacuett, all of whech voted satf
frage down ia their last state else
lonsa. were alloieally ti lts favorG
in the DImeerptlc conventona.
Iteware of .e man wh. does not
return your Woew. lie seither forives
you anor allows pY u t forgive yourelf.
-(orge Irmab s Ihaw.
Synopsis of Louisiana's New Laws.
At, No I l.irt.rlallting maneo to |p)
the *1 tli, +,.4 of the seimuh
A. t N*. Irowrptwrating the city of
I; rtila a.rd ir.4 i i.tlll4l for a rtnimmliolt
(orens .4f ts lrnentrnt
At N.. 3 It(rlejltng Art No. 1it of
191i It, 1lIow h1,. re.mouval of arts under
i.rli 4t*1ef t;atusPe far'owm the ofi're of clerks
f. rou|rt :allotI rentt..ter of mortga~e and
%l." N. . ol.tl resMdution prtvliding for
. S . 1'44II, 1t,.t.il IISlU for New tiriplasa.
.\4.i NO, 4 ratilnll authority to potie
juries to Iri, at fratnchise In publ+' roads,
al| * I ulihh' I.t l.'es under their ad
Itinlrfat ion,
A4ct No 6 Amending sections 1. 3, 4 and
, .l ta't .47 ,.f 1912. providlng f(orms of
I, ernlPtlr'tet for 'itiell antd towgs.
A. t No. 7 I'otlrminall the Sale of the
th Jll jII S,11 of ('ulfaa bt the parish of
Ilrtntt to the town.
A I No,. I lteauiring the state hretard of
tiqutltiunti to Iswltl ir(vular letters to
tanks 711 ,44tti Lt~fore the awardI of the
:"a1, al "tlr,.. y fungsl.
\t , ,, ' .',-..hidding the statel hicetrd
.r4 .iitalttiullI in to hilrr,.w Inotey e1c'ept in
twe a o yr 1t n wrgen tes
As I i.. itI Ilrequiring ill firms or cor
j'.ara.ii'.a. rilgntil5PIi In the esptoltation of
.3i ll 1il I IiIll sts to tile qusrterly state
8,14l3t4 t;lih tlia state Iudiitor shtinlg the'!
, ti '3.41'f thI I.Ur.*tUitl sL e)pkhitot and
t. 1t t, ItI utho, ing the altl River.,
%l h.,. t|lsi: s. ili I.) oU ItoUIf levee dis
1t1l1 It, tsx ,t' $2.,ttlet in per ient se lid
\.- ol , N. i! tf"r.a"rlulg tier allowance iof
4144 '4331,t % Oigl of pu(:t13 tcouno1ts far oftlh
º %4Inrt4eC to "14. 104
1,I 'NoII I'r4,.o igltl for a crisastitu
tia. ,I .tn tnl.iOs clai 1t. rIljetl arti le Its of
Ihe. ,( lledlt ltl l
,%tl No I I 'Ti, p4tlht i.lt the sale of near
I1 -r in dr) territory.
\~,t N, l', M.ikia it unlawful for junk
dri,,les Iho 1,ll. .1se junk friom mintrs
i' N.!o Iet 4lmentltl g l e -ti.n I of Art
1164 ii 1k43 tI3 I.r..t lde frt' an alternate
r, I.n1f ,. i't.ar lit Iti *llits 3, of Over O4i.4t0
1alt:t31,1tants 4 .1'1 % il t Jt) s insteaid of
right ti .i s
A, '1, 17 'tring preerenrae to e
t. h41.134 it, io 14 + 44 ''t444141
A,. I N.i 1l I'rtohlhittll the m)niO m
i,i iih k Ilfti'4,'i 'at , l into tickk frtee ler
.:4, No., 11 Aurlthrilllg the Ats iertor to
it ,, l4 te4 l,;,li,.t'tl gatlarld armotries
iA. t No. :, thdthorilingl the TenseI
Iltii. I..i .'sc' ast4ard to flhat a $235,0l1l
l.ori t asie.
A, t N.. 21 A ,tthorislnl, anllt dti'r-ttig
It.' stl te' r,stittr Its Iln4e pa rtis .i fIundtis
4,4I 1* I. 1 the .u.rrcntl eIpenes of tihe
A.tI Nio :t %it. 1anr for the trial of
.ttt.'t"s litof htnraks 143 c.huargee of embeasie
i,*tut It , h"".. .1 ilh,.tr in the jurisdiction
ih'ei 4 iI k 9s w'ritl'lft or in the Iurse.
1it4tI.n w her," etrl',ltet'
At, I No :t Ai.,btiallnsg Ithe right .of judlg
, it,1 I4 ljdl .11t tron ianier Aritcle 343 of
the Ie.,iWi t tL, I I 4l 1 '*i when the sole
ii'lun,.l I.. mu4lti f;t( lIh. ; tfhl share of the
A. t No. :I I temtu.rinll ideasure boats
lllhllr tg I 4 f1,' Ih. i iwhiiet,siits from htltl
it 4.,tal. Int l'l ann..t and Irovidiar{ for
;t nI;\ i ul i h4U11 ftr4(4' alitl niockrk*e hlarge
1.f $12 per >.t fot! msuh craft
Act No 27, l're'stihn.l tllhe proportlon
1f the, . mt iof ipat lig I~ be plaid by ptrop
SIt t'i t in-ct. tilittinitlaitst lea and railwI
irotlltSllln with ltr;cks rn streets to be
Art No 26 --Providing that the emtiv@
t.484 .f 'n.hI* rts. griading, Illti8 and other
44,1, rlnlt 3,4tit:lt''itl tu'irc4etr, to pr'epare
Ctrl. tl for tani Ig he htorne by abutting
IC, ,4101 It 1wnerst
'.t I i 7 I'ovrillng for rempuisory
;.i .. ,It s..lnr, I., il ,lr.n etw r.w the
S.... ' ) ,1i I !, Its ish of I tienl I'!
,i I No ?7 A ,ilutifltilwonl almebdtent
t. :e,'i.-iltr Ih 2744 ,,f the .Nunsttutllion
,I ut'e lh," 5-I'trrl iaaIemnltiy power to
ii iut Itho turn parichiati. wnrt and mtuniuc'pal
;,aatha tliem l, Ir t slwcinl tmeSt for publi1'
inmjroestlllt.'lt. Itt to Xaceda 4 mllt anltd
not to run ,ver 10t , rins.
(t. ';o +.,' .rantsrlg to the IlIIughtte
,r the .\nterlcarl ltertluttpn the privilege
uf hittg!l malh 4ill llkg ,fkil survey ef the
'fainati JH-l," leadinig rom Naltlbi
Itwhi' thtoultghl Toanst. to litexml.. City,
in i'. . t.'erittont with the s~*tw orgabalsl
Act No 3*-l nltfIr.ltlg flenator IPtveu
saudl' M'h-lti t, It N.o 1129I of thue lstat
fourtl'h , orlIs tr, lIrent the l idIrimi+
rintlio |ii fitavor of Tetas pilrta Ragelnal
,ther sotlhertl plrts. with regalln Ito (tt
hnporatlion, of ctitle+.
A-t No 1 Apw.~lyT It to .vagre's for
iegrtlation to ef'lc'ltitaty prtvnt polygacmy.
A't No 22 Amending IsYrtiot 1 of Art
13 I. 1Ill, thIe trrulrpt practkIe act, so as
to linllt A rlndIntfl to the expeditiaer of
Sit per tent of tone year's salary on a
cARnll.igt..
Act SN. 12- Prowiding thet judicial sate
adretti.sttttemttts may 1wr pkLced either ti
mn'.rninl ,r afternmsn nwspapeore, lro
irisolt t,.'t. Whlen the I fterlnuot paIer t·
itilc thl, last ntlpg'drltiimcem t moIat appear
on tht ,tit prcemtling the aice
Atr '4. 24 l.,werling k@ Heaga ita
paid Ib lrrnlfacftturerrs of'irltlmnn seed i14.
Act N, '. dlgv n umthers the rlight to
nit s Ira dhnltlatratoh ofl her Inltotr 'til
Itret'ai ptlrjrt' when her hus*banl has
heoli thterdkI.'ted
Art Nit 141 t3lving parish .eud kwiP
heltrh )hsrtls the rilnht to pas health
Art N.. 37 -The a inaitatrtioen fertitiser
Act No .* The dmia~ultrllltnll faed
stuffs hill
Art No 29 - lettintg the udltbeoal
three-qUarter mtii tam allowet by the
,on*I|utetnn.
At' No. pa--'oUtbh' utilities bi4 fr N3;e
Art No. 41 The admilistratito prial'f
bitt
Art nte 45-Aprprogretats I1US bo
4 uver the detilesucy in the printing fund.
Art No. 43 -.t)irwttlng the attorney gIs
stal to instltut sullt to determine the
rights of the Fate lt Inhe 'enltaary ('o
legs property at Jackson.
Art Ne. 44 itegueating louiliana dler
gation int (ongrees to obtadn a speedy
settlement of the swamp hLnd grants of
1t44 and 1514
Art No. 4 I'rovtlinlg for a $1 state
wide hsttling Inse for residents.
Art No, 44 The general apprtopriatton
hilt.
Art No. 47 - Appropriating $*.17n.40 to
pay the Mttate' pro rats ofa the ront of
paving to front of Itate property In laten
Rouge.
Art No. 41- -Making an appropriation
for the expenses of the tuarin of (t'onmil
aloners for the I'rothkn of ulntfCormity
of l.eaislation lt the U'nite. Itate. and
for the Repenaes of the nationael rcmfer
onep of onmisialotters on uniform staile
laws.
Art No. 40- Apprprriating $40 to re
Imhourae 4herif Perkins of Irlrant Parish
for nt.,lse eunrrv eoualy paht into the 1tat-t
tI easry.
Act No. S4- Apipr iating $A) to re
inhoure uthe Mtat Natiunal Itnk of Miin.
den fItsr nnmer erroneouant paid Into the
State treasurv
Act No. 6i Making an appropriation to
pay the eslwn*s of thee Are marshal':
Act No S2 .Approppriating 312 to pay
V R. Imnith of Praenklin for surveying
-tate lands
Art No. c53 I'rmileting for the relief of
Mrs EvKelyn King.
Art No. i Appropriating I$150.40 to
pa) warrants dlrwn against the l115 fund.
Artl No SS Appropriating $6 30 to J.
I' t' II I hwa aotn f l tI Villk tfe
ltei earrnssiOOlth tai into the l4tate
Art- No 51 .Authorising and dircrting
the refundintg of all near boer Ihenses for
Art No 67 Appropriating Sl.O Th to
reitnthur'e (lenrlge Henderton, sheriff of
Itberiat, for neon.} errnneoualsy paid into
4tate treasury
Art Noe ;1- Aptpn4rtlr.lang money to pay
the expenses of the t'onsertation ten.
mission.
Act N, 8 - Appropriating $100 for the
use Of lAsulatlanil comminslon on lkeisla
live procedure.
Art No kiS Appropriating i5,011 of the
general fund of I17 for repairs at the
Maist rusllanahl epital for the lnsane at
.Mcako.
Act No 6I Approlpriating 1143 43 to re
nttmaurse Mrs lhouis Iacoste, wife of the
late iheriff lacets., for money erfntou~ s
ly paid b) him into Ithe ltste treasury.
Act No 4t -Appropariatinlg 11,000 for
pren».,tvos for parish fairs
At t No n:4 Alqrsupriating $Nll.O 41 out
of Ihe generaltl fo(tud for 1Jtl to reimhburs
the tfical 4telm~ thl4aks for money baor
rowed b" the htate Ioard of Iqulidatihn
Act No I4 - Aulthorluin the Hoard. of
Iqlstllattin to borrow $#,000 to iablde the
Mttle to IraIrtClepate In the tMmaislyppt
e1 N.o 4I. Apprtprtu lna $'11 to sr
inmbur.e Mrs uaphrrmlie IA hause of
\1 hIs d',r r, fi' mone3 .ri otrncllsil paid:
Ilat. the State treasury
Act No 6a hl..e'int the management of
the t('onserr aItin ('nitnidastoll in the hands
of one man.
Art Nu 47 Appropriating $W.4c0t for tIh;
main.tetya.-e of the military rt.-orats e
part ment
Art N,o .;s The New inilean municipsall
bridge bill
Act No. 6. The New tlrteen pavtnlg
Art No 7  Approprlating !$35 to pa)
A. W. Tur.er for his servl,e In protect
ing the 4t.ute'a interesta in the river btel
oil leases.
iTo he continued neat week I
ARE YOU GUILTY?"
iallna (Kansas! Union.
The newspapers of every cOII'tn y
are doing the most of the Bghting Ina
favor of local business as asainst the
mall order houses of the country. To
reward the local preis for Its loyal and
crrnlsihlttl supiport many of the bustl
nwas men of this sand every other comn
untlly in la1uliaana are buylng their
printing and blanks froml mail order
house-s In Ne ()Orfians, Fbreveport and
citIes even more distant lC'ery dollar
selit out of town for the purchase of
any material that le sold here' I added
to the resmources that the Ieslnesa men
of other cities are using to fight the
growth and eVIpanluon of business here.
T'he paprs are going to keep right on
doing ltheir duty to the hornm people
and the) ha%#- the undoubted rlght to
apet-I- t patronage and support in re
turn
Perhaps the most active man in the
house, was T. Sambola Jones.
SOUiEIN CATTLEMEN
TO MEET AT S'PORT
The fourth annual mnetitg of Ihe
Skoulhern ('attlemen ' Associatimn % ill
be held at $bhrevport, IA . Auglust Iii.
17 and II, i1l9. Ied.rwed passe-wrgor
fares have btlen lecured one all south,
,ornt railroad., which will toake the
iexpent.'. of the trip to Hhrpveport as
light asn Islsble. Stales of dairy and
bt-f cattle Ilolatelns, Jeraeys. lhort
horns. and Ilrealfrd will beh hohld
Augauit 17 and I1.
The peope, of threveport are plan.
ning to entertalt the Association in a
lrtnner belitting the ocaslton. later.
but well in advancie of the meeting.
the printed program will bh ilsied. In
which *ill also I, lvren Aesowelation
heB..ludarters. list of hotiel and rates.
redicn'.d railr oad farea. place of hold
lhag wetill nge. and all other luiforsllat iolin
It't'lteeiary for the gulidance of those
ilesiring to attend.
If ett! are not already ai Itenltbr of
nuiIit' nselwiatlion in the Middile toulth
aid :ouatis l'a..1, bo hin yefl atttiu, atld
$2 1t, as mnenblh.rship fee need mail teo
the. s 4retairy It will pay any cilltS.
manl through the Information. plelluelre
anld entclertallnltwn he will re'etlrlt
T'AI'T HtllTI.Kll,. Mtworeftin
%l,'oemjlhis, Tenn
THE DltSRVING POOR.
Willi' camtu to his enother with anI
elxresislonl of ana.ty'l oln his fcel,
"Ma." he asked, "If a ip.r,0 hieriiter
little lboy was to re'm to thlb back
i, or and ask for something to iena.
. usld yei give him that piet. e of pi
ihbet sas left over froni dinner'"
' -.E. Wtllie, of courelr I mould."
said the mother.
WIllie 'e face cleared
"All right." he said. "Just wait a
ai net t' till I run round to tIh hack
f,, r " Philadelphll Press
Federal Inquiry or
Railroad Strike?
Paced by demands from the conductors, engineers, firemen and brakemen
that would impose on the country an additional burden in transportation costs of
$100,000,000 a year, the railroads propose that this wage problem be settled by
reference to an impartial Federal tribunal.
With these employee whose efficient service is acknowledged, the railroads
have no differences that could not be considered fairly and decided justly by such
a public body.
Railroads Urpge Public Inquiry and Arbitration
The formal proposal of the railroads to the employes for the settlement of
the controversy s as follows:
"O.w r mlu.eame bh"e dumemusmd the mwe aSe e am r aM r diaeemues - 4.l and shen eeýumMly ihm
aomsul and the peep a ji= d IdI r . be dispok d «t b ob ae ai et ofI a w , sklt mhue m se ob:
1. la)hi, hy bisble. se As U es.i Ca.mles. Camadal... Ithdel ot Weal wbh, by nee . Nl
elemealand amd be . seer sR i dtmoO er and TIt ea estr of th. eMV l the rdaikpe Is is ao pee
des a oesldur ad proaes the rsin d equsi.e rt o the io, aeortnd, dn to feerie hddiLs.nl r Neewe
urm, June -s the addred stea r ot r ee ai odm e pem are o subd hp the Camisiuua e oris mrd
,ese.' t; M, t she we tshe itssess Cumme.se~ aine eas, wude. en. lel, es.e i th p.nmise
o we e der aglevew Csn stsgre asb euon ar a be o esnea eal ons te s u a waider ete
uS she quoet sisse isev . in .
a aussas is we.rwdar. wh i. paisitue at rdsFudlF leave (Ts"he nwisd. Ale)
L eArs Refuse Offw and Take Strike Vote
Leaders of the train service brotherhoods, at the joint conference held in New
York, June 1.15, refused the offer of the railroads to submit the issue to arbitration
or Federal review, and the employee are now voting on the question whether
authority shall be given these leaders to declare a nation-wide strike.
The Interstate Commerce Commission is proposed by the railroads as the
public body to which this issue ought to be referred for these reasons:
se *b body th nee a ieekee kswd piýpdot e us vageo ; nd she maska r pa, eread wage.
at edheseed awisae he . a equeed as em fe. as Oeber Leam she tu se pewdw
aes is u e uMhs Ueldsma. by t puhie
The as thel seared mq disethe pub Io I The le. .ow C'amaes Commiaeuas, with so u
aepe rresu seo. lgely ld Nthis GQem - el. reea is Isa p oIeide o masle a mpleswe
SUM head. ieig tide. . sad sadeeIdet e d.iesn a.s would pe
On sws e, dep r seels kye the anbs as wo tie ntese of the siilmed eamplote, shae weer
a pue seaiy osa.bI ul is pdi dti a the e d reitenaod, ua she p .ube.
A Quesmtto For the Public to Decide
The railroads feel that they have no right to grant a wage preferment of
$100 000,000 a year to these employes, now highly paid and constituting only
one.afth of all the employee, without a clear mandate from a public tribunal that
shall determine the merits of the case after a review of all the facts.
The sisglr iusw befr ter rc astry is whether this cslroewrsy is to be settled by s
depertial G*ereiee. isiry or by idrshrial warfare
Neamal Ciagemnce Commuittee of the Railways
au" us us, M can..
L W 3 9It, alerU Cl59I" .'DM6S, I: 5r< . . G---.i n
ro ýUýhaS;dee .e XL x a Batt.. a»«
p ~ 1LTh.~Iualou
Iw ML'
