Jaboradvocte
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
P
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 12
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JULY 8, 1916
One Dollar a Year
Workmen's Compensation Act in Danger. Supreme Court Delays Action of the Two Most
Important Questions Labor's Contention is Hit It Will Be the Issue of the Govern
orship and Legislative Canvass.
Ex-Governor Cox Says: "Present Administration is Unfriendly to the Act and It Is Friendly to Plot Against It."
Governor Willis Says: "That Is False; If There Is A Plot To Destroy the Compensation Act, It Is Not A
Republican Plot."
Columbus, O., July 1. There is seen
in the situation created by the failure
of the Supreme Court to reach a com
plete decision on the ouster suits-against
iiauiiuy insurance companies to prevent
them from .participating in the work
men's compensation system the ground
work for the Ohio political campaign.
The prospect of the status of the com
pensation law furnishing the issue in the
canvass for Governor and control of the
next General Assembly loomed up large
tonight when the result of the delibera
tions was announced.
Belief was expressed here that the
compensation law will become the lead
ing question on which former Governor
James M. Cox will stand for re-election,
as he has already stated that if
it was found that liability insurance
companies arc not barred from partici
pating in workmen's compensation he
will head a movement to banish them
from the State in as far as the com
pensation system is concerned. The
conclusion was reached tonight by those
who have followed the case that the
"logic QfcvcntsVivill. forccthcissuci.tQ
Two Big; Issues Open.
Although three of five main proposi
tions have been decided unanimously by
the Supreme Court, the statement of
Chief Justice Hugh L. Nichols shows
that the two most important questions
arcstill left open. These are to go over
until the fall term for further argument
and may not be decided until near the
first of the year. The statement of
Judge Nichols follows :
"In the several quo warranto cases
pending in this Court, involving the
status of indemnity insurance companies
under the Workmen's Compensation Act,
as to which oral argument has been had,
the Court has reached a unanimous con
clusion as to three of the five main
propositions, the Court holding:
"1. That Section 22 of the act is con
stitutional. "2. That Section 0310, General Code,
is not repealed by implication, but re
mains and is to be construed in connec
tion with Section ."4 of the Workmen's
Compensation Act.
"II. That contracts of indemnity may
be written by the several companies, pro
tecting employers to the extent of com
pensation paid to employes for acci
dents and acts of negligence other than
those inflicted by tlic willful acts of the
employer, his officers or agents, by
the failure of such employer or any of
bis officers or agents to observe any law
ful requirements for the safety of em-
ployecs. To this extent such contracts
of indemnity are valid.
Questions That Uemaiii.
"The Court has not reached a conclu
sion satisfactory to itself as to the two
remaining questions :
"J. Whether contracts of indemnity
may be written protecting employers to
the extent of compensation paid to em
ployees for acts of negligence gener
ally; that is, to the extent of covering
injuries inflicted by the willful act of
the employer, or his failure to observe
lawful requirements for the safety of
employees.
"2. As to the right of employers to
indemnify themselves against the civil
liability enforced in suits by employees
to recover for the negligent act of the
employer other than where the injury
is inllictcd by the willful act of the
employer, or by his failure to observe
lawful requirements for the safety of
his employees, in cases where the in
jured employee has refused to apply for
compensation and lias instituted action
to recover in a Court of law.
"As to these two propositions the
Court invites a reargument, when the
Court reconvenes in the fall."
Disposes of Contention.
The decision thus far disposes of the
principal contention of the State Fedcra-
Organized Labor
President Wilson Reviewing Labor's Hosts
Scene on the Stand at the New American Federation of Labor BuildinS
Left to right Secretary of Labor Wilson, Samuel Gompers and President Woodrow Wilson
tion of Labor that Section 22, which per
mits self-insurance of employers finan
cially able to bear the risks and give
satisfactory bonds to the State, is un
constitutional. The labor men have al
ready announced their intention of ask
ing the next Assembly to repeal the pro
vision. Employers of labor, who were
neutral as to the compensation insurance
feature of the case, defended Section 22,
many briefs being filed on the subject.
It also disposes of the claim of the
State that the old law generally author
izing insurance is not broad enough to
cover workmen's compensation. This
was the principal ground on which the
State stood. With it swept from under
the State's counsel, the only matter is the
extent of the insurance victory. If the
Court goes no further than in today's
announcement, the success of the insur
ance companies will be a hollow one, as
it will give them the shadow and not
the substance for which they contended.
The case had been in progress for
many months. It was provoked by a
ruling of Superintendent of Insurance
hrank i aggart, who held that the in
surance companies might write not only
workmen's compensation policies, but
policies to protect employers against loss
occasioned by "willful act" and failure
to obey lawful requirements.
View of Commission.
The State Industrial Commission took
the view that employers of fewer than
five laborers might be protected by lia
bility insurance policies, but that other
employers might not be, and that lia
bility companies with respect to employ
ers of more than five were barred.
Their contention, which was adopted by
the Attorney-General, who was joined
by the labor men, was that employers
niight carry their own compensation
risks or secure protection by subscrib
ing to the Slate fund, and that there
was still an "open liability" on employ
ers for failure to observe lawful re
quirements and for willful act. The
suits were brought to oust them, and
the nuestions were raised by answers
and demurrers.
The arguments, written and oral, at
tracted dozens of lawyers and developed
every angle of the case. The largest
bone of contention has been Section ."il
of the Compensation Act It is one of
the "mysteries of legislation." How it
got into the Workmen's Compensation
law no one who was connected with the
administration knows, but it gave the
insurance companies the basis of their
claim that they have the right to par
ticipate in the compensation business
BAGGAGE WILL
BE MOVED AGAIN
Drivers and Omnibus Company
Itcacli Agreement Whieli (rants
Wage Demands, "Iis ,.Sairt.
Drivers employed by the Cincinqati
Railroad Omnibus Company, who have
been on strike for the last three weeks,
returned to work last Thursday morn
ing. Following a meeting of Tuesday
morning, when the strikers voted on a
proposition of the company to settle the
controversy, union and company offi
cials held a conference, and after a few
minor details were arranged an agree
ment was reached.
At a meeting of the drivers Wednes
day night they were instructed to re
turn to vork.
W. M. Davis, superintendent of the
Cincinnati Railroad Omnibus Company,
said the company bad started taking
calls from all parts of the city and it
would be able to take care of all bag
gage as before the strike was called.
Neither union nor company officials
would discuss the settlement further
than to say that the strike had been set'
tied on terms satisfactory to all con
ccrncd. Under the new agreement with
the company, which will be for one year,
it is said the men have been granted an
increased wage, a day's work of 10 con
secutive hours, time and a half credit
for overtime work, time and a half for
Sundays and legal holidays, a closed
shop and every other Sunday "ofT."
COVINGTON, KY.
Having: Fulled To Support An Amer
ican Paper Will Try To Maintain
a Socialist Orpin Northern Ken
tucky Messenger Increases Capital
Frankfort, Ky., July :.. The North
ern Kentucky Messenger Publishing
Company, Covington, with a capital
stock of $100,000, today filed articles of
incorporation with Secretary of State
Lewis. The publishing company will run
a Socialist paper at Covington. The in
corporators arc Chris Clinc, Harry
Clinc, Wesley W Weigilc, Dr II F
Vantrump and J A. McMully
Wake
Cincinnati Home Brewery
Is Fair to Union Labor, and the Idea That It Is On the
Unfair List of the Building Trades Council Is a Mistake.
The Council Threatened to Put Them On the Unfair List,
But the Matter Was Adjusted. Patronize Them, As
Their Best Recommendation Is That They Produce
Good Union Made Beer.
There seems to be an idea among a
number of readers of the Labor Advo
cate that the Cincinnati Home Brewing
Company had been plcacd on the unfair
list by the Building Trades Council.
Suclu an- imptessioR iswxong. While,
the Council had considerable trouble to
make them use union labor and had
threatened to put them on the unfair
list, such action was unnecessary, as
the trouble was previously adjusted.
Gambrinus Stock Co. Fair
Having Adjusted their Trouble with the Sheet
.Metal Workers, they were Ordered Placed
on the Fair List, and All Locals Notified.
A Great Amount of Routine Business Transacted at the
Meeting of the Building Trades Council.
The regular meeting of the Building i
Trades Council was called to order with I
President Cullen in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Wood,
Wire and Metal Lathers No. 47 an
nounced the election of Win. Lane as a
delegate to the Building Trades Coun
cil. Brother Lane being present, he was
duly obligated.
A communication from the Building
Trades Department A. F. of L. was or
dered referred to Board of Business
Agents.
A communication from Local 44,
Structural Iron Workers, announced
that Brothers J. M. Davis, Thos. Mc
Ewcn and Chas. Mueller had been re
elected as delegates to the Council, and
that J. M. Davis had been re-elected
business agent.
liATHKHS KIjKCT OFFICIOUS.
Lathers' Union No. 47 held its regu
lar election last Wednesday night, and
the following officers were elected :
Chas. Case, president; Emil Cliff, vice
president; James Duggan, financial sec
retary; Geo. Noltc, treasurer; Ed Lane,
business agent, and Win. Lane, scrgeant-at-arms.
The executive board are: El
mer Dudley, Chris Riester, Thos. Dona
van and Ralph Clements; delegates to
the Building Trades Council, Ed Lane,
Thos. Donavan and Win, Lane.
Business Agent Ed Lane was elected
without opposition. He reported that he
had ordered his men off of two hotels
in Springfield, Ohio, because the plas
terers were putting up corner beads.
Up
We would like for our readers to
forget any little trouble that the Build
ing Trades may have had with this
brewery and go right ahead and patron
ize them, as we understand that they
arc making arwcxcellent, quality-of beer
at present.
Members of the building crafts should
look on this matter as a spat between
friends and now that the incident is
closed there is no reason why we should
not he good friends again.
Business Agent Hock reported that
with Brother Staulf of the Brewery
Workers, he held a conference with
Mr. Boss of the Gambrinus Brewing
Company, and that the grievance of the
sheet metal workers had been adjusted
satisfactorily to that local, and for that
reason he would request that the Gam
brinus Stock Company be placed on the
fair list of the Council add all locals
so notified. Brother Staulf of the brew
ery workers interested himself in this
case, and he played a big part in reach
ing a settlement.
All trades reported business excellent.
Brother Smith advocated a large at
tendance for the Labor Day parade.
The Chair announced that monina
tions for officers will take place on the
third meeting in July and the election
on the last meeting in the month.
There being no further business, the
meeting adjourned to next Thursday
night.
STUKKT CAU MKX HOLD
KlilXTIOX.
Members of Queen City Branch No.
027 of the Street Car Men, held their
regular election for delegates to the
Ohio Federation of Labor last Thurs
day night.
STATIC PIjU.MUKUS' COXVKXTIOX.
Brothers Anderson, Twecdil and
Fischer left for Sandusky, Ohio, to at
tend the meeting of the State Plumbers'
Association.
M
H
1 1
m
