THE SUFFRAGISTS ive more evidence of wanting an equal
I A art " am t - a I1M 1 SB - V tV "a. 9 9
Thlt It Number 272
NACE
uiciidc iu din man an njuai i iiii iu uict
says the pope's Western Watchman of St. Louis of June 15 on page 10, col
umn 1. If this is not an attempt to slander thousands of the best women in
America, what is it? 5 S Z
bKB3B3B3BSS2xj
V
WTSS CUZABETH KHOFriX I!t VCNS CARS
lit icnfi it a story mat win tnriii
IT1 all red-blooded Americana, a
ttory rich in human interest,
and if it ia not at all
timet pleasant Trading, that is
because the spectacle of eleven J
strong men conspiring to harass
and crush a lone defenseless
woman ia a tight well calculated to
bring the bluth of thame to the
brow of every loTar of our free gov
ernment every man, indeed, who
jxjssesses a particle of boner or no
bility of character.
But this atory haa far deeper and
more profound interest and signifi
cance than anything that attaches
to the personality of those con
cerned. BEHIND IT LOOMS UP
IX VIVID OUTLINE TWO
MIGHTY WORLD IDEALS OR
SYSTEMS OF OOVERXM EXT,
THAT ARE AT THIS VERY
HOUR ORAPPLIXO IX A LIFE
AND DEATH STRUGGLE FOR
MASTERSHIP OF AMERICA.
Here is aeen the natural, tho in
evitable fruitage of two rival ty-j-tcint
of rule, on the one hand we
have the enlightened spirit of our
free democratic constitution, at ex
emplified in Dr. Loveland'a word
and deed, in bold contract with
the intolerant, dospotic, monarchjal
theory of politico-ecclesiastical Ro
manism. Here in miniature is teen
the mighty etruggle now being
waged throughout the republic be
tween the friends of our constitu
tion, which guarantees liberty of
religious discussion, freedom of
pre and assembly, and the organ
ized oath bound subjects of the Ital
ian pope whose acta prove how piti
fully false and insincere are all
their patriotic professions. Here
in priest and Protestant preacher,
in Roman Knight and former nun,
are teen the incarnations of despot
iam inherent in the monarchial pa
pal system and the glorious liberty
and enlightenment that distinguish
es our noble Protestant democracy
Leading Character in the Drama
The drama with which we are
about to deal ia in progreae in the
city of Portland, Oregon, and it
will be interesting at the outset to
glance at the principal characters,
ELIZABETH SCnOFFEX
formerly a nun, but now a Protes
tant christian.
For thirty-one years sb was a sister
of charity, seveatesa yean of this time
being Pnt aiming th sick and dying
In 81 incent ' Hospital, Portland, Ore
gon. Vim Schoffen, after escaping from
her prison-lik convent, embraced the
poipfl of Carat aa taught by tha founder
of Christianity, and haa for tony tima
bean lecturing to Tut andieacea of
earnest Christina people in many of tha
leading Protestant churches of Portland.
Those who hear her, say that though aha
bravely exposes tha jaaggrrnant-lik ma
chins of the Roman hierarchy, aha makes
ao personal attacks, and evinces the Ana
conscientious truth loving spirit of a true
, Christian.
KXIGIITS OF COLUMBUS
subjects of the pope of Rome.
Supporters of tha pspal system, and
consequently enemies of freedom of re
ligious discussion and other fundamental
principles of onr free democracy which
are yitaj provisions of tha organic law
f onr land. The following are tha names
f the sieves members of this secret oata
bonnd society, who constitute the troop
elected to harass and silence the defense
less little woman: J. W. Kelly, W. J.
PreftdsrgatC Begat B. SiaaetL V
Clarksoa, J. Jf. Casey. D. J. Malarksy,
M. O. hi unlay. R. J. O'Nail, Joseph
Jaeeoberger, U. V. Ptahl, John F. Paly.
Llva strong me pitting themselves
against ona little woman, that it the
Itomaa Catholic brand of knight errantry
which Is ia perfect keeping with tha his
tory of this organiiation, and of tha
papal system of despotism, and intoler
ance, aa far removed from true Chris
tianity or democratic manhood at ia the
ssnith from the nadir.
It should be noted that ea the above
committee ia M. O. Munley, who aa chair
man of the public school board, secured
Peter Collins, a Knight of Columbus
lecturer, to hold op Pope Lao XIII, to
the public school children aa a model for
them to Imitate, though this pope was oa
record aa opposing ths fundamental
principlea of oar liberal democratic gov
erament.
THE FR.EE PRESS DEFENSE
LEAGUE, upLoMen of funda
mental democracy.
A powerful organizatioa composed of
loyal Americans pledged to combat the
nation wide and aggressive attempt of
ongsaiied poliUoo -ecclesiastical Human
ism to destroy wholesome and necessary
freedom of religious disruption, freedom
of press and assembly, in the interest of
ths aati-detuocraue papal system. Tha
t rea V ress Defense league, wnan ap
prised of the fact that a powerful com
mittee of Kaighta of Columbus proposed
to give another example of their alle
giance to the papal system of govern
ment in attemptiug to sileiice Miss
Schoffen, instructed Judge Kiddle, of
Portland, to protect Mile beboffen in tha
courts, and otherwise, to the end that
tha constitutional right of free speech
should be preserved. The secretary
treasurer of the lesgue informed its
Portland representative that the re
sources of the organiiation would be ei
haunted if necessary In defense of tha
I'nited States constitutional guarantee of
freedom of utterance, which ths papal
system opposes.
FATHER O'lIARA, a leading
Roman Catholic priest of Portland.
Father O'Hara ia one of ths most
active handy-men of the Konian Catholic
hierarchy ia Archbishop Christie's dio
cese, lie displayed the true spirit of the
papal system's hut red of freedom ot
speech, snd its insolent arrogance in
notifying the Rev. Frauk U Loveland'a
secretary, that Mi rVhnffen roust not
speak m Dr. Loveland'a church.
REV. DR. FRANK L. LOVE
LAND, pastor of the First Meth
odist church of Portland.
At Father O'Hara represents the
monarchial papal system and spirit, Ir.
Loveland is a fine representative of our
splendid Protestant democracy. After
finding that the Roman Catholics were
l industriously engaged in their favorite
boycotting and censorship activity in an
effort to prevent Miss Schoffen from de
livering her message to tha people of
Port la oil. Dr. Loveland promptly offered
her the use of his church. He also in
troduced her ia a speech Instinct with
the spirit of liberal democracy and that
noble spiritual idealism that differen
tiates Protestant democracy from papal
autocracy.
Mist Schoffen and Brave Knights
The facts in this illuminating
typical example of the Knight of
Columbus nation-wide war on one
of the most vital provision of our
FEDERAL CONSTITUTION, are
briefly aa follows: Miss Schoffen
a conscientious Christian lady has
won the enmity of Rome because,
(1) She escaped from one of
the papal prison-like convents.
(i) She made the over-rich and
insatiably avaricious hierarchy dis
gorge a little of the money it had
received aa a result of her long
years of n urging in the Boman hos
pital. (J). Sh presTuaaa ia this iup-
Free Press Defense League Calls Bluff of Cowardly
Knights Judge BIddle Instructed to Protect
Miss Schoffen In the Courts or Otherwise,
to Establish the Right of Free Speech
Which Rome is Seeking to Destroy
A PATRIOTIC C0MHinEE"on,50O WARM THE KNIGHTS
Former Nun Thrills Vast Audiences In Many
ple Story of Her Life Archbishop Christie's Official Organ
Attacks Miss Schoffen A Typical Exhibition of the Roman
Catholic Brand of Knight Errantry, and Their Hatred
of Free Speech and Free Press
risedly free land t tell the story
of her life while she faithfully
served the church of Rnte.
These three things; leaving her
prison, demanding pay for the years
of exhausting work as nurse, and
telling the story of her life, Mill
appeal to normal democratic, citi
zens at perfectly right and proper,
but to intolerant Rome they are of
fenses to be punished in every way,
that our land will as yet permit in
nocent citizens to he jcrecuted and
punished bv a cruel anti-democratic,
politico-religious despotism. Hence
thia defenseless woman who had
s-ut the flower of youth and the
prime of life in service of Rome
hat been hounded and boycottrd in
rvery possible tray by the subjects
of a foreign norerritjn . Among the
despicable acts of these papal hy
phenates has been a systematic at
tempt, not only to prevent her from
obtaining employment, but to ren
der it impossible for her to deliver
her message to the world. In this
last outrage the same shameful tac
tics which were employed by the
subjects of the jxipe, iu St. Louis,
to prevent General Miles from hav
ing an opportunity to speak before
the citizens of that municipality,
were here in evidence.
Unhappily for the Roman Cath
olic "priestly" and "k nightly" boy
cotters, and foes of our free institu
tions, there arc not many Dr. Royds
in ioitland, ana there are mauy
Protestant -ongrentions whoev min
isters and trustees are not craven
sjiirited time tetters, vho for fear
of the papal boycott would betray
tht high truft, the sarred duty of
maintaining in their integrity our
vital constitutional guarantees, and
so the well planued and determined
attempt of the foes of democrat it:
freedom of assembly and speech
measurably failed. True, the daily
press presented a humiliatirg spec
tasle in permitting one of tie most
vital local news events of the week?
to pass day by day unnoticed, whilo
Miss Schoffen was thrilling vast
audiences who packed leading
churches of tho city, with her pa
thetic and decplv human storv.
While a large part of the city was
deeply concerned in this impolant
news event, the alleged nrvs rft.
penstrs of the city uere silent and
tongue-tied.
Nothing destiy.s the influence of
a daily press like its failure to dis
pense news in which the people are
interested. Xothing paralyzen a
paper or robs it of its influence like
a censorship. The recent primary
and school elections in Portland
bear eloqent testimony of the slight
influence exerted by a press which
will not freely open its columns to
vital news events and to the free
discussion of all tides of every isr
tut.
The . Roman Catholic hierarchy
failed in its attempt to silence Mist
Schoffen by preventing her from
speaking before the people of Port
land whose interest in her message
has steadily grown as the weeks
pass by, until at length politico-ecclesiastical
Romanism felt it must
take public cognizance of her and
her work, accordingly this was done
in two ways, the official organ of
the Roman Catholic archdiocese
published an extended attack and
the Knights of Columbus appointed
a committee of eleven to act for
Rome because her lectures were
"obnoxious" to the knights.
Seal and Bogus Knights
7a olden timet it vat tht glory
of tht knight that As madt tht pro
tection of defenseless womanhood
kit special charge. Tht Roman
Catholic kightt of t&s twttiitlh
lenlnry do not beluwj to that tmlilel
et rain. 7'l.ey reverse the chivalry
f the midi'ie age and in order to
curb a lone and drfensrlcs troman,
they collet t not one or tiro of their
nuiler, but eleven, to tale attion
betame forsooth. Miss Sthnffen'e
lectures are not pleading to the
Knights of Coluihbu and other
"props" of the Roman Catholic h'er
arthy. No one mere man, even
tlmii'-h a knight of the Roman band,
cutild lie entrusted with the serious
work of harassing and if possible,
silencing the voice of this woman
alio had giveu thirly-one years of
her life to enrich the coffers of
Rome. Eleven knights against one
defenseless woman is the spectacle
which political Eomaninn offers
the American public in her latest
attempt to destroy freedom of re
ligious discussion in on American
city under a flag that represent
our democratic constitution.
Knightly (7) Deeds of Bomanists
In this connection it will ha re.
meinbeiud that it was five Knights
of ( olumbus who went to the room
of Rev. William Black, at Marshall,
Texas, on the evening of February
3rd, 1315, and when he refused to
forego the right granted him hv out
FEDERAL CONSTITUTION, to
deliver his message before a large
number of people who wished to
hear him, murdered the Christian
miniver. It will also be remem
lcred that in the first week of
March, of the present year, a large
mob of Kniqhts of Columbus and
other "prop" of the Roman C atho'ie
! ! 11 ' 111
merarcny mvanea a Jinsonic nan
iu Chicago, Illinois, and broke up a
meeting being held under the aus
pices of the (Juardians of Liberty,
which was being addressed by Dr.
Sluttery, of Boston, these, rioters dui
bodily injury to prominent citi
zens and placed in, jcojmrdy the
lives of many women, as well as
men, in their war upon the United
States Constitution, and their de
fiance of the laws of Illinois.
It will he further remembered
that one month later, in .4ri7 of
this uear, a mob rem posed of tome
ten thousand Knights of Columbus
and other products of parochial
schools decided to defy the FED
ERAL CONSTITUTION, the
laws of the commonwealth of
Massachusetts, and overrule the
city of Haverhill's permission
qranted to Rev. Thomas Leyden to
speak on FRRE ASD PARO
VlllAL SCHOOLS, these loyal
subjects of the papal sovereign
flocked from various neighboring
cities to take part in the now fa
mous ROMAN CATHOLIC CRIM
INAL ORGY in which public and
private property was wantonly de
stroyed, peaceable cititens brutUly
assaulted, an effigy of fret speech
"-'"' V ' "VY " : ' .
lawless rioters haa fatten to pna ine
piblic speaker, and furthermore it
will be remembered that on June
2nd, of the present year, a band of
Roman Catholic Knights of Colum
bus committed a criminal assault on
a prominent citizeh, Elmer E. Rog
ers, of Sanford, Florida, waylaying
him on his way to Orlando, and
beating him into ' insensibility be
cause he refused to u-ithdraic his
opposition to their political ticket.
Thus, it will be at en that this war
on our FEDERAL COXSTITU
TIOX'S sacred guarantee!, by
Knigh ts of Columus, is not confined
to the Pacinc coast. In Texas l
blossoms out in murder, in Illinois
and Massachusetts it appeart in
criminal lawlessness and wholesale
rioting, in Florida it talet tht form
of brutal and mutdtmt assault of
a cttusft, xaeraly. because ha pr-
Churches With Sim
ferrcl to support for office, men
pledged to the democratic, instead
of the papal system of government.
Hierarchy Attacks Miss Schoffen
The following is the verbatim re
production of the' article from the
Catholic Sentinel, the official or'an
of Archbishop Christie's diocese.
a. p. a:s feature
"ESCAPED" NUN
FORMER SISTER OF CHARITY
APPEARS ON ANTI-CATHOLIC
PLATFORM
BIGOTRY RUNS WILD
PROTESTANT CHURCHES ARE
PLACED AT THE DISPOSAL
OF MIS3 SCHOFFEN
Portland is a hotbed of rellpious
bigotry. Wl tie ths rest of the world is
ftorniiuf Uiaveu fur peace ths ra
ti lots" here are doing everything in'
their Power to ltir nn reliinous dmiwn- t
mn. To this sail they are usmc Miss .
F.Iuabeth Hchoffen, a former nun. I
Thia unfortunate woman was for 31
years a member. the Sister, of Charitv. ! "". " V"7 "
of Providence, For 17 yesrs ho wss'a,'"K, bt Just at those enemies of
nursing siiter in Ht. Vinceut's Hospital , freedom of religious discussion were
here. Mhe left the order four years airo
s a protest against having been trans-
feired from 1'ortlsnd t Vancouver,
suainst her will. The orler psil to her
or her rcprem-ntstives a considerable suia
of money in recognition of her yes rs of
service.
Some months ba.t she Went on the
lectuie platform, billing heroclf as an ex
nun. The public did sot flock to bear
her iu any urt-at numlers. Iter audi
euces cuoiisted for the most part of that
uiidesiiaMn element in this community
who would revive Know-Nothlngism and
to whom that which is vulgar and sala
cious csrru-s sn appetL
Miss Schnffca, more widely known as
"Sister Lucretia," is a plain featured
woman about 5o. tor the lust few weeks
she has Int-n delivering afternoon lect
ures "for women only." Heveral Prot
estant ministers have extended to her the
hospitality of their churi-be. Among I ing letter commenting on the same,
the churches in which she hss spoken are anrj wjt;i extracts from the introdur-
the First Methodist church, the Wood-' t . . 1 i . .. v t, r
lawn Christie, church, tb. 8,mnv.ide ,,r the Rev rank Lo ve-Metho-I.st
chunh. the r.entwood Met ho-1 In'id, when he presented the former
dist church and the Rellwood Christisn i nun to his audience after being
church, bhe was billed to spesk at the warned by priest O'Hara rot to pcr
White Tsmpla (Baptist) last Tuesday, it hpr k T,iege thrw,
afternoon to women onlv, but tha strong A . , . r . , , a .
d.sapproval of ths tnisteis of thst church t,rlM hftve "r1Bl " reject.
resulted in the cancellation of her en
gagenirnt.
Miss Sclioffen is a stuiliout dissemina-1
tor of malicious inuendoes, suggestions
and hinta She is careful to say nothing j
that would render her liable to prosecu
tion for criminal libel or defamation of i
cbsrscter. Hh haa much to say on the I
divided allegiance of Catholics, on the I
"military activities" of tb Knights of I
Columbus and on th deep, dark Roman
dungeons. Sh is no orator. Her dis
course is full of inconsistencies and ia
couched st times in th language of th
gutter. She adduce no evidence ia sup
port of her insinuations aad decline to
answer
questions during or after the
"lecture." The stag ia well set. Tha1 I do not talk against the people, or the ! announced to the erowa, tnaf l woun
proceedings generally opea with a pray- siiters, but the system, th ecclesiastical , speak in th Flaia, in front of the court
erl This ia often followed by the sing-! or priest machinery which had me in , house. After I talked ther for a short
ing of "America," ia which th audi- physical and mental enslavement for! time. Dr. Trank L. Loveland, pastor of
nee joins. Her manager then drape thirty-on years, iU dup and victim th First Methodist church, ssnt srorj
the American flag over Miss Schoffen 'a grinding and working to build and ea- that his church was open to in ia th
shoulder, saying aa h doe so: "This is rich Home's slave pen. evening if I wanted it. Xedlea to say
to show that during her lecture His ' I do not speak against religion. 1 1 that I readily accepted, and on that
Schoffen ia nnder th protection of the; am hsppy to hsve found th tru Christ 'short notice the church, which scare about
8tara and Stripe! The word avr ; religion of th Xew Testament teaching. ' twelve hundred, was packed. Our worthy
fail to elict tremendous applause. jit waa only after I waa drivea ia the friend and brother. Father O'Hara near
Miss Schoffen's headquarter are at ' last eight months of my prison career of this meeting even on such short norle,
$21 East Ash, th horn of Mr. and Mrs. of pagan darkness, that I waa forced to aad informed Ir. Lovelsnd'a eeeretary
Erasmus Morrison. Her manager is
Elton Withrow, of th asm address,
Her lectures have become so obnoxious
that th Knlghta of Columbus have da-
eidsd to tak action and to that end bav
appointed thi
th following committee: J.I
w. Kelly. W. J. Prendergast, Roger B.
Sianott, Jamea Clarkson, J. N. Case;,
P. J. Malarkey. M. O. Munley, R. J.
O'ell, Joseph "Jacobberger, H. Y. StahL
John r. Daly.
The above is characteristically
Roman Catholic "Bigotry Runt
Uad" siaj maki good Loading,
CxAy'Ss
' ' ' i
h 7 ' 'J , O
f t ' ' ' J ' ' '
Vv rw.". i y
miss smorrrN as
and pruve iuinressiye to those who '
i . . ,i. i . i ., ...l ...I
tw na "'ruse luc hi in n . I'm
the reader
find that the "bigotry'
runs mad." consisl. in the refusal o!
trading Vrotettant minister and
tht intelligent patriotic population I
' ' .. I
to join
in the
in'amous Roman
Catholic bn'rott and censorship.
they will see how Roman Catholic
education warpe its victim's minds
until they necome alien even to the
sprit of democracy.
If Miss Schuffcu's language is
that of the gutter, where did she
learn itf At the parochial school t
In the Roman Catholic confession
alt Or during the thirty-one years
in the content t
A "New Richmond" On the Field
What the Portland bii eleven.
Knights of Columbus contemplated
ilulllir in order TO prevent JI1m
in order to
Schoffen from delivering her tnet-
.. - l...- ,... U,..
preparing to strike their blow,
something hapix-ned.
The. Free 1'rcss Defense League
appeared on the scene. The secretary-treasurer
and counsel of the
league, sent word to Hon. W. R.
ltiddla to protect Miss Schoffen iu
the courts and otherwise, in the full
enjoyment of her constitutional
ripht of freedom of speech, from
any and all attempts of Knigh's
of Columbus or anv other oath
bound followers of the foreign sov-
creign who might attempt to strike
down this vital weaiion in the ar
mory of tiemocracy
It is interesting to follow this ar-
! tide with Miss Schoffen's illumimit-
ing vividly the deadly pposition be
tween the spirit and genius of
Protestant dfinocracy and the mon
archial papacy.
Letter From Miss Schoffen
In a letter written by the former
nun. which accompanied the above
article from the Catholic Sentinel,
Miss Schoffen thus refers to
u -
1
work, and commenta on the attack j w,itine t0 8t in the hall. It was im
made in the Catholic journal: posible for me to get la the hall, my
'For the nut several months I have i self, ftnd after obtaining police protee-
been giving lecture oa my past expert -
: enee of my convent lire,
give op praying to tn blesseu imieges
j aad picture, that I went direct to God,
, my Heavenly Father, for light, truth and '
redress, and shortly after I did so 1
I found myself out of th Ron aa Catholis
slave pen.
It would b Impossible for me to draw
tha lsa between reluion and politics ia
th convent life, aa it ia called a religious
house and onr occupations aa well aa
"our holy religious ' ' practices become
ssnrtined.
Th pop is infallible la aS matter
of faith and discipline. Our rule are
arirevec hy the fSS aad a bata- tU
sue arrtAaa todat
,v,nC represent
be sanctions for
ntative of Christ, to all
as becomes tha solos of
l on earth.
... I A
i i un MUiim? rou. cnaer svrirmw
totT, a June stli. CatKotta Mc,
pui.hsbed u this cuv, and I wish t
niHt a few rsmatks oa the kul "a1
kniui oi. the front esse about sue.
si'ies o. the iront psge about toe.
1 admit Uiat 1 was very uniunun-
at ly having len a Bister or inanty,
of rrvvidonoe for Uurty-ona years ia the
Kouisa Catholic chuna, bat fortunate
bsviug mads my escape before 1 had to
die brokenhearted, like 1 bare sera
many otbtr sisters die.
1 wss Uaustorred against my will, out
not to Vancouver, to Oanbrook, H.
and in a tyrannical, unjust manner. Dor
lug eight monlha 1 tried to get tvdreea
from Archbishop Christie, who waa my
highest church Christ. 1 navsr Iw
civd aa answer from him. tfhen that
tHMtrm u Ihruvch ml A the grls, if doe
irnt rare v.i( btcome of thtm.
1 left Itecausn 1 could o live that in
humun, uniust, oppresMv cold hearte.1
ma-hiunry Rfe any longer. That avsteut
does the deil's woik clicked with re
ligion. We go to eonventt under decep
tive inducements. We aro brought up in
iguoram-e and error. 1'arocbiul schools
and the confeasionul get us there. Any
means to gain their cuds. When they
have us, and when wn can not serve ther
emit, (the system) is done with us and
the quiiker w can die the letter they
hko it. 1 am living beau I could not
dis. I wished snd prsved msny, many
times that 1 might die to end it all, but
could not, aud now I am going to do
what good 1 i'IO to put aa end to this
awful slavery ia this glorious country of
ours.
In the article in the Senftael, you will
notice that there is a ststemont that I
received s consideraldo sum of money for
my services to them. After I left the
sisterhood 1 brought suit against them
for salary due me for my ser -es in St.
Vincent's Hospital, in this ery. That
suit was settled out of court, they pay
ing to me a little less than two dollar,
(2.0o) a week for the thirty-one year's
service 1 rendered to them. I will have
to admit that, that is a considerable sure,
or salary to pay to on of their stslera.
They have teen hounding and boycotts
ing me ever sine I left so I could
scarcely get work. Now comes a trull
tarv committee of eleven of their ablest
and noblest K. of C's to take actio
agninst one poor old ex-nun.
The "holy" paper vas very tur
print that I was turmd down at the
White Temple, and they were just aa aura
not to print what did happen. After th
trustees of the White Tomple cancelled
the engagement that had been announced
for over two weeks, I rented a hall, th
best I could get on short nottee, that
seated about flv hundred. On and a
half hours before I wss due to speak,
the hall was packed and the doer locked
so no more would crowd in. When I
arrived, forty-five minutes befor th
1 hour set to bevin.
there wer ariout
. l .... .1.-1 in tk itml
1 tior tad a goodly number of the true-
I nioooen vraencnni er.iunu mr. it -
hioociert Americans srouna me. it
inat I couici nor spess ia uist cinjrr.a. ys
course, lr. lifiveiana very Pywuy -of
formed tha af or mentioned O 'Ham, whoj
was running th First Methodist church.
Rev. Loveland 'i Introduction
In introducing Miss Schoffen,
on the evening of June 6th, tha
Rev. Pr. Frank L. Ixveland, pastor
of the First Methodist church, of
Portlsnd, said,
It ram to tn not very many hour
OoataaeA ea Fags CaUsua 11
