The St. Joseph Observer
'&,
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JULY 8, 19 1G
NUMBER 40
frv.
i
?
m
K-
si
-9
.'
ft
SN -,.
;
it ...
U
THE RULE OE REASON ENOUGH 10
DEFEAT CHARLES EVANS HUGHES
The Oil and Tobacco Decisions in the
Supreme Court Now Rise Up
to Plague Him
It Drew the Teeth
Anti-Trust Law
For the
J. XI. Ingersoll of Pocatello, Idaho,
national committeeman for the Hull
Moose party for tliat state, Is an
other of the many who refused to
heed the order of the discredited
Teddy and. .returji to the grand old
party of radicalism" and reform. Not
only will Mr. Ingersoll not go back,
but he Is now a steadfast supporter
of President Wilson and will do all
that he can to bring about his re
election. Mr. Ingersoll was In Omaha
on Monday, and while there he made
a statement to The World-Herald,
which, In view of his great political
influence In the West, Is of decided
Import. Said Mr. Ingersoll:
"The 'rule of reason' decision of the
supreme court of the United States,
in the oil and tobacco cases, is of it
self enough to justify the defeat of
Mr. Hughes for president."
"I don't accuse Mr. Hughes of being
a corrupt man," he eald. "He Is noL
He is a thoroughly honest man, Just
as is Mr. Taft, who as president ap
pointed him, and others of his way of
thinking, to the supreme bench. Mr.
Taft honestly believes that monopoly
Is a good thing, if it exercises its
monopolistic powers with reason and
moderation. He appointed to the su
preme court men who were precisely!
of his way of thinking, among them
Charles Evans Hughes. Every one
of these Taft appointees, Including
Hughes, concurred In the prevailing
opinion in the oil and tobacco cases,
decided In 1911 only five years ago.
That decision drew the teeth from the
Sherman anti-trust law, and made
futile further prosecutions to enforce
Us provisions. It laid down the rule
that private monopoly of the produc
tion and distribution of a necessity of
life is a good thing and tolerable, pro
vided It Is a 'reasonable monopoly,
provided it Is not 'excessive' In Its
exactions levied on the people.
Hughes Honestly Believes It
"Mr. Hughes honestly believes that.
It is according to his way of thinking
to the Taft way of thinking. He Is
a believer in 'big business and Its
benevolent and kindly control of
American Industry. If ho were to be
elected president he would appoint to
fill the several vacancies which may
be expected in the supreme court In
the next four years, lawyers who be-
MAKING STRONG RACE
William T. Cllne Is Pushing His Can
vass In the Third for the
Legislature
One of the candidates for the state
legislature who is surprising his
friends by his activity In the race is
William T. Cllne, who would repre
sent the Third district in the legisla
ture. Cllne has developed as a cam
paigner to such an extent that his
friends feel that he has the nomina
tion as good as won. With that fea
ture accomplished, there is no reason
why he should not be elected, for no
Republican can carry that section,
which Is known as the "country dis
trict" on account of the fact that It
has but one ward the Fourth of St,
Joseph In it, the remainder being
rural.
TTIn nnrwtrt fa TJrtM V Cl.n. ...!.'
.., n.j.uun... . c.. ""."
has also been quite active. Cllne's
, , , ., ,
fiiends propose to keep up tho work
,. ,. ,
uu.w iuiv ""'"'-- """ "." Ui.U
Cllno Is actively aiding them.
On Sept. 1 tho famous Tootle thea
tpr will nirntn hi nnrni tr tlipatnr lnv.
ers. under the management of Dubin -
6ky Brothers of Kansas City. The
(heater has been closed nearly three
years, owing to court litigation be
tween the Tootle Theator company
and the Sobubart Theatrical company
of Now York.
From the Sherman
Which Stood
People
llee as he does. He would do Just
as Taft did. He would no more ap
point to sit on the supreme bench a
Louis D. Brandeis than Taft would.
"Mind you, I'm not Intimating for a
minute that Mr. Hughes would be cor
ruptly or Improperly inHuenceiL In
the first place, he is Incorruptible. In
the second place, It would be unnec
essary to influence him, for he be
lieves already, sincerely to the very
depths of his being, just as 'big busi
ness' believes. He thinks this coun-
try should be governed by a ruling rowful mien. To the natural and 1m
class. He has little patience with the mediate inquiries that were made as
idea of rule by the people, for he dls- to the whereabouts of his bride, he
trusts the people's Intelligence and
capacity. He thinks, as many other
men do, that if the successful men,
the great Industries, are given every -
thing they need to make them pros-
perous, and given the controlling voice
in government, they can be depended j
upon to take care of the Interests of,
us little fellows the other ninety-nine
million.
Would Be Like Taft j
"While Mr. Hughes has not been
long in public life, he has been there
long enough to make his political just before the St. Louis conven
Ideas plain to anyone who studies his tlon opened its second day's session a
record. His 'rule of reason' decision placard was placed before the speak-
of Itself Is enough for me. Add to it
hls veto of the 2-cent fare law in New
York, his veto of the bill reducing to
5 cents the interurban railway fare
to Coney Island which was designed
to give the sweltering masses of New
York access to fresh air, and his rec
ommendation to the New York legls-
latum thnt it rofnen ti rntifv tho in.
. . T ,., ,
come tax amendment, and I think
there is enough to convince any rea-,
sonable and open-minded roan. I
"Mr. Hughes Is a good and able and.
honest man but he Is no more a
progressive than Taft, and would,
make much the same sort of presi-'
dent that Taft was. The fact that
Colonel Roosevelt recommends and
supports him does not alter the fact.
Roosevelt also recommended and sup
ported Taft. I have been In this fight
fnv Prntrraaalva nrlnntnlaa Ayntr n
long lifetime. I am not going to aban-
don it now just because Colonel Roose
velt asks me to. I am going to give
all the support in my power to the
candidacy of President Wilson for re-'
election." I
HAL BRADY DIVORCED
Wealthy Young Omaha Man
Known Here Granted a
Separation
Well
It will be of considerable interest
to the hundreds of St. Joseph people
who know hltn well to learn that on
ThllrcHnv Ilnl f Tlrnflx.. nf Hmalia
secured a divorce from Mnhdah Weks
Drady on the grounds of cruelty and
desertion.
Following their marriage In Chicago
on Nov. 26, 1914, Brady brought his
young bride to Omaha where they
lived together for two months. Ac
cording to statements of friends, they
met, were engaged and wed on the
same day, while Mrs. Brady was a
member of a theatrical company play
ing in Chicago.
F.flfo In .Tnntinrv nt Inct vnai clio
..-.. j ...ww jvu, fc. M -
jdiBappeared ana wa8 next heard from
. , ,.,, ,..,. . , , . . .
In Illinois, where she had gone to Join
., , .,.. , ...... , .. ,
her parents. Brady Instituted suit for
,, I,- ,,l u,, i, ..., l... ..
ifli-w, vumlitb fcwv uci viucii; uc-
sstroyed his peaco of mind, causing
great physical and mental anguish."
Mrs. Brady did not contest the. pro-
! cecUlnes a,,d remitted the decreo to
be awarded through default.
Mrs. John J. Loa and daughter, Mar
garet, the guests of Mr. and Mrs,
George Mclninch, left Wednesday for
tauir homo in SeaMo, Wash.
THAT KANSAS LIAR
He Seems to be Even More Eloquent
than He Was In Former
Years
Kansas is some state it really Is
what we Missourlans who reside next
door to It would consider a state that
at all times blows Its own horn and
blows It long and loud.
It Is a state that never loses an
opportunity to advertise for If a
more eloquent advertisement could be
put out than the following from the
Abilene Reflector, the whole world
would like to see it? The Reflector
tells it this way:
"A story certainly remarkable Is
told to us. It concerns a man who
by definition, as the mathematicians
say had spent all of his life on a re
mote cattle ranch and was utterly
Inexperienced in any tenderer of gen
tler relations than those which exist
between men like himself and between
them and their bovine charges.
"This untutored and yet thoroughly
well-intentioned person, according to
the tale as told, at last went to a bor
der town, and there, as might have
been expected, he fell promptly and
violently In love with the first woman
with whom he became acquainted, who
happened to be the pretty waitress
who served him at table. His wooing
was equally vigorous and successful.
In a few days the twain were mar
ried and together they started back
for the ranch on horseback.
"A week later the cowboy returned
to the town, alone and of deeply sor-
replied, with tears starting to his eyes
and running down his lean, bronzed
'cheeks: "She broke her leg two days
' out, and I had to shoot her. And I
tell you, boys," he added, "I hated to
do It she was such a good woman!"
TRUTH IN ODD DEVICE
Alliterative Placard Displayed at St.
Louis Shows "Wilson
Will Win"
er's stand bearing the appended alllt-
eraflve Inscription:
Wffi?80W
WILSON
HUGHES
1M
17 VANS
J-'LEUT
iAN'T
All delegates were serious about
this sign. They insisted there is no
doubt as to the truth of the message
. b
it bears.
WHERE DOES HUGHES GET OUT?
To the Editor of The Observer:
If Hughes believes that President
Wilson was responsible for the sink
ing of the Lusltania, what hole does
he expect to get out at himself? Was
he not at the capital? Was he not
within easy reach of Wilson, and
knowing that several hundred human
"L! L!
cent children were to be destroyed on
that occasion, yet not raise his voice
in an urgent protest? The supreme
court has more power than president,
senate, congress, yet he remained si
lent until now. Give the calf rope;
let it break Its own neck. XXX.
EVERYTHING COMES TO
WHO WAITS
HIM
To the Editor of The Observer:
Should actual war develop between
the United States and Mexico, won't
it be Jolly fun to stop English laden
ships going Into South American
ports? We can declare Just any old
' !,hlns. cntraband , f . wa" and take
mem in io our own naroors ana take all
the time we want to dispose of them.
Think what fun for our Jackles to
preside over English mall sacks! We
can say, too, to England: "Dear John,
it will be a pleasure to know that we
will not detain your mall any loncer
than we please to." Should she send I 0ur count' representatives at the
any considerable force of her navy! N'atlonal Democratic Ccnentlon at fct.
over to protect her trade. Germany, lMnla have returned home and report
will bounce what is left of England's ll a great a,ul enthusiastic gathering
"high seas fleet" and give her hlKhiFrank Settle, Henry Dilllnghfira, Guy
seas the dickens in chunks. Hurrah
for the United States! Evervthinc
comes to him who waits. A. II. G.
Oregon, Mo., July 7.
Tip Cur Hat to W. J. B.
Stone, Reed, Ollle Jame3, and Glynn
carried off tho honors at the Demo-1 conviction of tho fiend, or fiends, who
cratlc National Convention. Their ,aro responsible for the deaths of my
speeches irsMlred the great gathering three coon hounds. Those aluab!o
of Democrats, and are unanswerable. 'Jogs died from poison admlnlsteroi
Ajjd wants worth while also, Is Hrjan ty m,e dastardly parties, and no ox
ramo back." We tip our-beaver tojarnge or effort will lo spared to hunt
our old frioad, W. J. n and may God ! ttern down. Ollvor Shanka. Doar
llcas him. DocnoNiUo Adtertiter. j'o n Democrat.
if NO SWAPPING NOW
1
A Little Story of the Letters
Were Sent Out and Never
Burned
that
Here is a little story told by the
Fulton (Mo.) Gazette, which tells of
tlii' literature that was not burned and
la now troubling the g. o. p. It says
W. K Muir, residing north of Fulton,
had 'ontracted forty lambs for the
first of July delivery to J. M, Nichols
of that town at $9.50 per hundred, at
the came time agreeing to furnish a
bunch of fat hogs to another firm at
$6.40 per hundred, and the firm buy
ing the lambs had contracted to sell
its wool at 35 cents a pound. The
prices were particularly impressive to
tTe man selling the Iambs, for the
reason that a few weeks before the
1912 election he received a card that
predicted, In event of the election of
Woodrow Wilson, $3 hogs, $2 sheep,
49-cent wheat and all other farm com
modities in proportion.
'"I never in all my life," was the
comment of the farmer, "sold lambs.
hogs and wool at such prices at home.
If we are going through 'hard times'
now, I know lots of farmers who only
hope It will keep up indefinitely."
He also mentioned that when he re
ceived the card during the "faultless
and magnificent reign" of Judicial
Temperament Taft, hogs were worth
only $8.50, sheep worth $6.50 and
wheat 90 cents. But our Republican
friends tell us that there Is no pros
perity in this country, except by vir
tue of the European war. Do you re
member how, when during the first
ten or twelve months after the out-
break of the gigantic world struggle,
before the United States had had any
chance to become adjusted to the new
conditions and when business was up
set, how the Republicans decried the
war's having anything to do with It
and how they laid It all on the new
tariff?
Now they say that the war Is doing
all of it. They have lied one time or
the other which time Is Immaterial,
for if they will do it on one occasion,
they will do it on all occasions.
THEISEN WORKING WELL
He Is Pushing His Compaign
Meeting with Much
Success
and
One of the most energetic workers
in the race for the Democratic nomi
nation for sheriff Is ex-Sheriff Otto
Thelsen. He has that capacity for
work which knows no stopping, and
the way in which he Is conducting his
campaign is ample evidence of his
earnestness and energy. When the
polls close on the night of the pri
mary ho and his friends feel that he
will have given a most excellent ac
count of himself.
Otto Thelsen gave a good account
of himself when he filled the sheriff's
office before. His record is the best
indication of how he served the peo
ple, and that Is an open book. If re
nominated he will be elected, and he
will fill that important office with the
same fidelity that he did before. He
and his friends will see to It that
nothing Is left undone to make him
the Democratic nominee.
F,atte County Always Does
11. Park, and Andy Grosbam got flrst
, lass teats in the convention hall and
did their full part in the soutlag,
l'latte County Landmaik.
He Likes Those Dens
I I will give IG0.0O for the arrost atd
VR ' 1
HiSiivt!s w
T
H B,,3kHHm
mAiBm.
OTTO THEISEN
WILSON
IS GRATE
FUL 10 HERS
He Expresses His Appreciation
of the Services They Have
Rendered Him
DESIRES HIS OFFICIAL
FAMILY'S
RETURN '
Is Hopeful that Every Democrat of the
Present Congress Will be Returned,
That the Party May be Able to Con
tlnue Onward with the Democratic
and Progressive Program for the
Uplift of the Common People
By GEORGE V. JOHNSON
Washington, July ".Notwithstand
ing the fact President Wilson has
been deeply engrossed with foreign af
fairs pertaining to our country's neu
trality and the vexatious conditions in
Mexico, he has recently expressed
some interest at Intervals In the polit
ical situation.
According to his friends, the presi
dent has but one wish in connection
with the November election, and that
Is that his administration and the tire
less efforts of his co-workers in con
gress will be indorsed by a majority
of the votes of the people. While
much has already been legislated upon
the statute books In the way of reme
dial laws for long-existing evils, he
realizes there is much good work yet
ahead for the legislative and execu
tive departments of the government.
The currency act, creating the fed- j wlll start on his tour, ieavlng here
eral reserve board and providing an early Monday morning. and during
elastic currency, together with liberal i that day w,n vlglt in the f0n0wing
provision for rural credits. Democrats order the towng of SaVannah, Fill
point to with mucli pride, as being morei Oregon, Mound City. Craig, Cor
the emancipation of the people from nlng( Falrfax Rockport and Tarkio.
the strangle-hold of the money barons i He win leave Tarki0 Tuesday morn
of the country, who for years not only I lns and wlll vUit the foiloWnB points
held the power to stagnate legitimate durinK the day: Elm0i ciearmont,
business to suit their mercenary will, Hopkins. Maryvilie. Sheridan. Grant
but also to throw the nation into a Cltv Gentrv and Albany,
panic within forty-eight hours, which, He wiu leave Alban. Wednesday
was in evidence on several occasions morninR and wIll visit the following
of recent years under Republican rule lnts during that day. Dadmston,
auu uunng me lasi uieveiana aamin- StanberrVt K,ng Cltv Unon
istration, when it was determined bylMnvs..m m, riarvsr1fliP
Wall street to defeat the Democrats J He wllI return t0 thls clty and wiu
at all hazards. , gpend aU day Tnursday tn St- joseph,
The Full Dinner Pail j and will speak here Thursday night.
The Underwood tariff law, with the ' He will visit the towns In Buchanan
levy of a Just and equitable Income , county Friday, the towns of Platte
tax, has also produced indisputable county Saturday.
beneficent results, as Is witnessed by On last Monday night a Roach-for-the
prosperity of the nation in every Governor Club was formed here, the
quarter and the "full dinner pail" in j organization being perfected at the
every hand. I court house. Membership rolls were
The Clayton act, born of the Wil-;at onee started and met with great
son administration also, which makes (favor, the club now numbering over
the big offender amenable to the law
as the little fellow, Is another siep
forward In behalf of the common
people.
Within a few weeKs Uncle Sam will i
have made another start toward the i
pmnnrlnnl Inn nf tha farmor ami mami.
tacturerfrom the octopus-like clutches
of the shipping combines, when the
shipping bill will become a law. With
tons upon tons of freight crowding
the capacity of our great seaport ter-'
minals, these commercial pirates have, Capt- Samuel s- AUen. ,atelv de
with impunity, levied upon the export- ceased- was one ot the early pilots,
ers sufficient toll at all times to ab- and later' captains, on the Missouri
sorb the profits afforded by the differ- when that rlver wa8 the mam artery
ence In prices at home and abroad. ot commerce. and it was always a
Besides this, it is common knowledge Pasure to hear him tell of the tales
that these shipping combines restrict told b' rivermen who had passed to
their freights to weighty and compact I the Deynd before he stood at the
cargoes as against the structural or nelm Every old resldent ot St- Jo
more bulky articles which require 8eph w,u remember his story of Cow
more care In handling and occupy , Island' PPsite Weston, and the fol
more ship space, which is a manifest ! lowlnB from The Chronicle of that
discrimination against the manufac- place' w,n fu"'sh the rest. It says:
turef. ' "The landing of a steamboat at Cow
Wants Members Returned , Is,and lnday morning recalls that
The president's foreign policy, his the first steamboat that ever came up
friends contend, commends him to the the M'8801"-! river landed at that his
favorable thoughts of every proud torlc ,sland ninety-eight years ago this
American mother, father, son and 8Uramer and spent the winter of 1S18
daughter who entertain a sincere re- 19 at the military post that was es
gard for the precepts of the "golden tabllshed on the island at that time,
rule." The president has not been Thls P'oneer steamboat was called the
swayed by unscrupulous men who 'Western Engineer. It was of unique
would fatten their purses with the construction, having been designed to
life-blood of their fellow-creaturos, but 'press the Indians that were very
at all times, under trying conditions, troublesome in this rogion at that pe
has been guided by tho dictates ot his rlot1, 0n Us bow was Ul "
conscience, regardless of the wails of nlpe' raade In lhe form of a huge ser
a subsidized press, sycophant office nent- wlth open mouth, aud tongue
seekers and mercenary vultures in Palnted a flory red. Tho stesm, es
human form. With firmness and be- caplng through the mouth, made a
fitting dignity ho has lnslsed on all loud' wheezing noise that could bo
occasions upon the proper roapwt for heard for miles. The Indians recog
tho rights .of Americans with dlplo- nlzed ln ll the power ot the great
matlc success In ovory instance. "Let Manltou, and were overcame v ith
those who would shouldor a musket iar-"
and defend their couatry bo the ones I
to talk war not those who wottk! be I Miss Hattle Lee Brt at Kaawi
found wanting In honor and courage City was tho Wednesday gaat f Mr
In time of strife," is the attitude of and Mrs. Geerte U. Richmoad.
the president's friends, who ask:
, "Who would exchange conditions in
i America today for conditions in Eu
rope? We pity them they envy us."
The president has on more than one
occasion expressed gratitude for the
loyal co-operation of members of con
gress who have valiantly aided him,
and regrets there is opposition In
some of their districts to the renoml
natlon of his friends. He Is hopeful
that every Democrat of the present
congress will be returned by increased
majorities, that the party will be able
to continue onward with the Demo-
crat' and progressive program for
the uplift of the common people.
A WHIRLWIND TOUR
Con Roach Will Visit the Upper Coun
ties the Coming Week and
See the Voters
Secretary of State Con Roach never
does things by halves in fact, he
does It all while he Is at work and
that is the reason why he will meet
1 west Missouri next week than any
1 other candidate has previously done,
or will do. He will follow the Roach
plan.
1 Larry J. Powers, an old St. Joseph
boy, was here this week, and while
i here arranged for a tour of the upper
I counties which cannot but be produc
' tlve of results and for various rea
I sons chiefly from the fact that Roach
will meet the voters, and when he
meets them he can get results. The
I tour that Powers has arranged will be
j made in automobiles, and a party of
local men will accompany the guber
I natorial candidate, who will see to It
that the voters are on hand to meet
Secretary Roach.
Mr. Roach will arrive in St. Joseph
1 Sunday nicht. and on next Monday
Star,
800 members, who will meet each
week and boost Roach's candidacy.
It's membership now comprizes some
of the best Democrats of the city.
SCARED THE INDIANS
' Tne Frst steamer Made Them Think
that the Devil Was
After Them
ti-Dtk
