THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 97.
BARRE, VERMONT. SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1916.
PRICE. ONE CENT.
MORE ADVANCE
AT SOUTH END
OF BIG DRIVE
French Made Still Further
Gains Last Night in the
Vicinity of Belloy and Es
" trees, Although They
Were Hindered by the
Bad Weather, Reports
Paris
SEVERAL HUNDRED
GERMANS CAPTURED
British Captured Salient in
German Trenches East of
La Boisselle, but the Ad
vance Was Declared to Be
Not Important French
' Are in Hem
Paris. July 8.- The French tnnde ft fa
ther advance last night on the Somme
front in the vicinity of the Belloy-en-Santerre
and Eatress, the war office an
nounced to-day. The gains as a whole in
this sector were not large, the operations
being hindered by bad weather. Several
hundred Germans were captured.
(n the Verdun front there were violent
artillery engagements, particularly in
the districts of hill 304 and Esnes and
Sauville.
GERMAN SALIENT
WAS DRIVEN IN
BY THE BRITISH
Unimportant Success Was Gained Near
LaBoisselle, a Short Distance East
of Original German Line.
Berlin, via London, July 8. To-day's
news from the western front throws lit
tle light on the fighting during the lat
24 hours, but advances show that fighting
in the period immediately preceding was
most intense at three points at Thiep
val, around Hem and in the region eight
miles south of the Somme river.
The only British success, and this was
declared unimportant, was the capture of
a salient, of the German trenches east of
LsRouelle, a, short distance east of the
original German line. The capture of the
village of Hem was accomplished by the
Irench only after three desperate at
tempts. ,
FUNSTON HAS EYE
OUT FOR BANDITS
Has Got Wind of Report That Villa Has
Co nve to Life and la
Active.
San Antonio, Tex., July 8. Careful at
tention wt paid by General Funs ton and
his staff yesterday to every meager bit
of information coming out of Mexico re
lating to renewed activity of organized
bandits in the state of Chihuahua. I'n
confirmed reports supplied some reasons
for believing that they are directed and
possibly led in person by Francisco Villut
Carranza' official notification that the
force that destroyed General Ramos
force near Jiminez might be moving
northward with the object of raiding the
American side was borne out to some ex
tent by information reaching the intelli
gence department of the American army,
but the American sources of informntion
also had reports that Instead of moving
northward the bandits were swinging
south and west toward Parrel.
LEAVING CARRANZA STANDARD.
Many Soldiers Said to Be Flocking to
Villa Side.
El Paso, Texas, July 8. EI Paso rep
resentatives of mining camps in southern
Chihuahua received reports last night
that the Carranza garrison of 200 men
at .Santo Rosalia about 40 miles north of
Jiminez, had renounced the do facto Mex
ican government and taken the field iu
support of Villa. The reports asserted
alm that rumors were current in that
district following the defeat of Carranza
forces at Corralitog and Jiminez that
numbers of the peons of the Hidalgo and
Jiminez districts were flocking to the
Villa standard. Other dispatches received
indicated that Villa himself may be di
recting the bandits' operations.
HOLD DISEASE
IN NEW YORK
Federal Experts Go to Help
the State Authorities
UMiEU ONE BOOF TO CLOSE CAMPS
TO ASSIST AGAINST
INFANTILE PARALYSIS
No Known Cases Will Be
Permitted to Be
Moved
New York, July 8. Assistant Surgeon
(teneral , C. Tucker of the federal pub-
health service came hero to day from
Washington to confer with local author!-
ie and direct six nations! government
experts who were sent to help combat
the epidemic of inlantile psrnlvsjs.
The federal experts will coiiii-iitratc
their effort upon preienting tiu gprcid
of the disease to other stat". No known
casus will le permitted to move and all
persons who have come in contact with
the disease will be obliged to remain in
he city. Children under 18 venra have
been barred from moving picture shows
nd from all amu-emenU at Coney islaid
except those in the opn nir. Sixteen
playground streets have been closed end
he opening of .111 other mis been de-
aved. The children's rooms at the nub
ic libraries are alo closed.
FEDERAL AID GIVEN.
ANOTHER MEXICAN CLASH.
TWO VILLAGES
ARE CAPTURED
BY THE RUSSIANS
Germans Who Were Thrown Back Fii-
s
day, Were Next Forced to Give TJp
Position and Many Men.
Petrograd, July 7, via London, June 8.
The Russian advance in the Czartorysk
region, in which the attacking Germans
were thrown back yesterday, has been
pushed further. The war office to-night
announced the capture of the villages of
Dolzycz and Gruziatyan. The number of
German and Austrian prisoners continues
to increase.
Expected as Carranza Troops are Com
ing in On Bandits.
Chihuahua City, Mex. July 8. Carran
za forces, better organized and more
completely equipped than any other
units of the de facto government troops,
are closing in on the bandits of southern
Chihuahua and northern Durango, intent
on wiping them out.
Jiminez, which the Villa forces cap
tured after defeating an inferior force
and killing General Ignacio Ramos, has
been occupied again bv government
troops. The bandits are fleeing through
the valley of the River Honda.
Refugees who left Jiminez before the
Villa forces were near the eitv were
responsible for the story that Pancho
Villa commanded the bandits. Nothing
definite regarding his presence has beeu
received here.
GOAT GRAZING.
BRITISH ATTACK
NOT KEEPING PACE
WITH FRENCH
British Are Opposed by the Flower of the
German Army, and Ammunition
Is Being Wasted Lavishly.
London. July 8. The operations of
the British army on the Somme front'
between the rivers Ancre and Somme
are again impeded by unusually heavy
rains, according to the war office. During
the last few days, the British have cap
tured 20 guns and 61 machine guns. The
British army, however, continues to make
slow progress in the effort to bring the
front line betwepn the Ancre and Mon
tanban on a level with the French line j
further south, the French having pushed
further ahead than their allies. This
effort on the British patf has led to the
most furious fighting in which British
troops have been engaged. The flower
of the German army has been brought
forward to oppose them and ammuni
tion is being used lavishlyr
According to reports from Holland,
Belgium has been denuded of German
soldiers to meet the Anglo-French offen
sive, and the railway stations, even in
the larger towns, are guarded by older
reservists.
In London, the reports of the British
commander, Sir Douglas Haig.are eager
ly awaited, although the arrival of the
wounded tells the price that is being
paid for the advance.
Notwithstanding the enormous call on
German reserves for the battle of ricsr-
dy, the iierman (Town prince hai re
turned the offensive at Verdun, and yes
terday made further repeated attacks
near Thianmont.
In the east, things are moving more
rapidly, the Russians making progress in
drives .gainst railway junctions at Dela
Trn in Galicia. at Kovel in Volhynia, and
at Baranovichi, north of the Pripet
marshes. The capture of prisoners con
tinue, and. according to the Russian es
timate, tbe total for the month's fight-j
ing is not far from 250,000.
United States Government is Conducting
Studies.
In connection with the effort to in
troduce the best methods of handling all
classes of live stock' on the national for
ests, a study of the goat industry has,
been inaugurated by officials in charge
who say that in parts of the southwest
large numbers of Angora goats are raised
for their hair. In 1915 over fifty thous
and of the animals were grazed on na
tional forests in six states.
The goats raised in the West feed
mostly on brushy undregrowth, which
they are said to like even better than
the succulent grass found in the same
region. On this account, the forest serv
ice officials say that in many places the
Government Officials Go to Nrv York to
Fight Disease.
Washington, 1. C, July The federal
public heajth service to'k a hand Yester
day in the fight to end an epidemic if in
fantile pamlvsis in New l'ork Citv and
to prevent its spread elsewhere. Six
government experts wen' ordered to New
York to co-oierste with state and city
authorities and steps were taken to or
ganize a federal corps of surgeons and
laboratory scientists to vork out pre
ventative measures.
Assistant Surgeon Gent ml W. C. R tick
er left here last night to participate in
conferences at New Vork regarding means
of preventing a general spread of the
disease. Surgeon . II. Lavinder, sta
tioned at New York, will be in charge of
the corps ot experts.
A statement, issued yesterday by J)r.
Rucker explained that there seldom is an
immediate spread of the disease directly
from the epidemic area except possibly in
territory immediately contiguous. Usual
ly, it is said, the spread comes a year
later, but so many children have, been
taken from New York to escape the dis
ease that immediate spread is possible.
Edwin R. Towle, Aged J, Is the Oldest
and Glenn W. Towle, Aged 3, It
ths Youngest,
South Frsnklin, July 8. Living in the
same bouse here it a laniily of four gen
rrationt. The oldest is Edwin R, Towle,
aged M years; next comet a ton, Her
man K fi yean old; the third in lma
it a grandson, Allan S.. tged 31 yeart,
and the youngest i Glenn V., only three
years old
Reuben Towle, r , grandfather of Ed
win It. Towle, was bom in the town of
Chester. N. If., CM. 24, 17IW. At the age
of 16 vesrs he enlisted as a soldier in the
war of the Revolution, lie was at West
Point, when Arnold undertook to deliver
that important poet to the British. There
be became ill l fever and ague. During
his illness he was visited bv General
Washington. At the does of the cam
paign he returned home on foot, without
pay, ick and reduced to the necessity of
lagging for food and lodging on the way,
Undaunted by suij- an experience he en
listed again the following year and served
through another nrmpaign.
Later he moved to F.ntield, V. II., where
be married Miss Sarah (lough and set
tied on a farm near the Shaker settle
ment. Seven children, three tons and
four daughters, were born to them. While
living in Enfield he took an active part out ,,y t,w tretMent ht. departe
in town affairs and for a tune was town I, j
lerk. At the aire of M veara. in ISIS. ,or "rae.,
he removed to Franklin, where one ton it h the closing of the camps, recruit
and one daughter had preceded hira. Pre- will lie trained at army posts already
vious to that time the e Meet ton. then designated, according to n order issuea
IS years of ace. drove an ox toam in yesterday by Major General Leonard
winter, loader! with household poods. I ood.
from Enfield, X. If., to Franklin, a dis- It was found that the contemplated
tance of perhaps 125 miles, requiring sev-1 plan of maintaining the state camps for
eral days for the trip. I training recruits would enforce the ab"
The wife of Reulten Towle was tn ex- eence of soores of regular army and a
pert horsewoman and three time nsssed tional Guard officers from their border
over the distance betwesn those, two commands. I'nder the new plan the re
points on horseback. emits will be trained by the regular
Here the faroilv settled on a farm I army officers stationed at the posts.
where the voungost son, Reuben, jr., sue- Among the army post designated sre:
ceeded bis father, while the other two ermont Fort Ethan Allen
sons and two daughters settled on ad
joining farms. tta.s establishing what
was known and is to this day, as the
"Toie neighborhood," and where their
descendants still live.
FOR RECRUITS
Just as Soon as the Last Na
tional Guard Leaves
for Mexico
TRAINING WILL BE
MAINTAINED AT FORTS
Fort Ethan Allen in Ver
mont Was Designated
as One Location
New Vork. July 8. Mobilization "m
in most of the 22 states of tbe depart
ment of tbe Eat will be discontinued, it
was announced last night at divisional
headquarters. Governor's ielsnd, as soon
as the last Nutional Guard ormistion
$16,000 MORE GIFTS
BY IRA C. CALEI
New York Infant rr recruits at Fort
Hamilton, recruits from all other branches
of the service at Fort Totten.
The plan mar be put into actual opera
tion in Massachusetts, where the 2,069
Reuben Towle became an acting justice recruits remaining in the state oamp
of the peace and represented the town in have been ordered to leave Monday to
the Vermont legislature in 1822 and 123.
He died Sept. IS. 1840.
Jonathan Towle. father of Edwin R
km born Mav 8, 1K02. He earh learned
the trade of carpenter and joiner, at
which he workedV for a few rears, then
purchasing a tract of land and proceed'
ing to clear off the timber for a farm.
join their commands on the Mexican fron
tier. Asi order was issued yesterday re
quiring all recruits in New York state
armories to move to Camp Whitman,
where they, will remain until the last
organized unit leaves, after which they
will be transferred to the army posts
General Wood said last night depend-1
GRANITEVILLE.
Mrs. Mary Sheridan Died This Morning
She Had a Fall Tuesday.
Mrs. Mary Sheridan died at her home
this morning at 3:30 o'clock after a short j
April 19, 1S31, he married Miss Lorena ents of National Guardsmen have flooded
Daines, granddaughter of Eliaa Babeock, him with letters and telegram request-
s soldier of the Revolution. Previous to ing him to discharge guardsmen as a re
this, or some 85 vears ago, he had built suit of the recent war department order,
a house which is now standing and in He said he wished it emphasized that
excellent remir. In that house Edwin R. soldiers with dependents cannot be dis
Towle was born Aug. 1, 18.13. and there charged by the commanding officer of
he lias alwavs lived. In 1855 a larger the department until the request l first
house was added to the original struc- made by the soldier, with corroborating
ture bv father and son and this is now
the home, of the four generations.
Edwin R. Towle married Mis Caroline
Truax Feb. 14, 1856. Two sons, Herman
K." and Edwin J.. were bom to them.
The first named, who succeeded his father
on the farm, married Miss Jennie S.
Stanley Oct. 2. 188.1. Ther have three
children, Arlan 8., Maude C. and Fred S.
Aug. 3. 1907, Arlan S. married Miss Ber-
nice Whitney, and is now with his father
carrying on the farm. They have three
children, Helen A., born Jiilv 20, 101 1 ;
Glenn W., born Feb. 13, 1013 and Arlan
evidence.
MAY EXHUME BODY
FOR AN AUTOPSY
morning, after rising, being slight y
dizzy, foil, striking her bead on a win
dow sill, which resulted in concussion
of the brain. Tuesday noon she fell into
a stupor, from which she never recov
ered consciousness.
Mary Keenan was born in St. Agathe,
P. Q., 80 years ago, the 19th of June. She
was married in Lancaster, N. H., to Wil
liam Sheridan. From that place they
came to Graniteville 25 years ago. Four
children were born to them Mrs. Ann i
Carey of Burlington, John, James and
Theresa Sheridan, who live here. Be
sides her children, she is survived by
two brothers, Frank Keenan of St.
Agathe, P. Q., and Barney Keenan of
Berlin, N. H., and by one sister, Mrs,
James Ford of Montpelierj also br sev
en grandchildren.
Mrs. Sheridan was a charitable woman
and a good churoh member, greatly de
voted to her home and children and a
complained of feeling ill and on Tuesday ' " ''.r?P't' Ctl 'n W. W
and continue to be farmers largely, com
paratively few engaging in other occupa
tions except perhaps as school teachers.
That they have been peace-loving and law
abiding is evidenced by the fact of al
most entire absence of litigation. Edwin
R. Towle states that be cannot recall any
suit at law to which any member of the
Towle family h,s been a party. Front
the first they have been entrusted with
important town and church offices.
As showing the characteristics of the
family in relation to temperance work,
it is related that when Jonathan Towle
built his first frame barn some 75 rears
ago it wa.s thought best to do 4 way with
the use of rum or whiskey in connection
with the "raising." although that was
the common practice at that time. The
attempt waa made and was successful.
This building now forms a part of the
present large structure on the farm.
There are at present eight families
Mrs. Emma E. O'Donnell. Who Was
Married in Brattleboro June 28, Died
On Wedding Tour, Leaving Estate
Which is Estimated to Be
Nearly Half Million.
Nine Providence, R, I, Institutions Are
the Recipients of Bonds from tb
Washington Man.
The Providence Journal of July o sn
nouncea further julta to various inttitu
tkms in that city from Ira C. Calef of
Washington, the gifts totaling I 6.mh, II
in Iowa school bonds. In announcing the
beneficence, Herbert C. t'alef, a nephew
of the donor, made the following ttate
ments
Ira C. Calef, now living in the ttate
of Vermont, at one time a resident of
this citv and founder of the business of
Calef Brothers, on North Main street
wishing to remember some of the chart
tie of this citr, has forwarded to me
some Iowa school bonds to lie delivered
to the treasurers of said institutions
named below. s
"All said gifts shall be kept as perir
nent funds by said tocietiea, the interest
or income only to be used as said bonds
mature and sre paid. It is his advii-e
that aid amount shall always be inveet
ed in municipal bonds. He gives aa be
low
"Homeopathic hospital of Rhode Island,
lour fi.non Jnds.
"Fin.t I'niversalist society, two f 1,000
bonds.
"Providence Children's Friend society,
two $J.00 bonds.
"Butler hospital, two $1,000 bonds.
"Providence Lying-in hospital, one !,
000 bond.
Rhode Island hospital, two $1,000
bonds.
Home for Aired Women, one $1,000
bond.
Providence Shelter for Colored Chil
dren, one $1,000 bond.
St. Elizabeth's home, one $1,000 bond.
The tressurers of the above-named in
stitutions can call at mv office snd re
ceive, ssid bonds at their pleasure. I am
further instructed to add that my uncle
has arrsnjed if anv of the above societies
prefer cash in the place of said bonds or
any of them, that I sm to give the said
society or societies the par value of eaid
bonds if the treasurer or tressurers so
prefer."
FOUND LA ROCK NOT
GUILTY BY REA
SON OF INSANITY
($82,500 BONDS
VOTED BY CITY
DECISIVELY
Of That Amount $35,000 U
to Be Set "de for En
larging an extending the i
Water M to Give Ade
quate otection from I
Fire t' ie Granite Manu
facti .,g Section
$33,500 DIRECTED TO '
SO. MAIN ST. PAVING
Balance of Amount, $14,000,
Was Voted for a New
Highway Bridge over Jail
Branch at End of the
Prospective New Road
Recommendation for Band
Concerts Adopted
Jury in Windsor County Court Returned
Such a Verdict Against Bethel Man,
Charged with Murder.
Bethel, July 8. The jury in Windsor
county court at Woodstock yesterday
brought in a verdict of the La Rock mur
er case of "not guilty bv reason of in
sanitv. It is understood that the court
will resume the case next Wednesday
when the respondent, Peter LaRock of
this place, will probably be ordered con
ned at the state hospital or tome other
place for treatment. LaRock was ac
cused of the murder of Elmer Washburn
t Bethel.
Croats are really desirable, as thev thin
out the dense brush and allow grass to j faithful companion to her husband until named Towle in this section and as manv
get started. In a number of instances, it n,ti ueatn. wnicn occurred nine years, , 0fher towns, while thre are many
ago. jiespite her years, she always took i other of the descendants of the four girls
of the first generation that by marriage
is stated, new cattle range will thus be
provided.
Many people think that the foresters
have been oppoged to letting goats range,
on the national forests, but officials say
that this is not true. In some, places,
particularly in hardwood regions, goats
damage young forest growth. In many
of the coniferous forests of the West,
however, this damage is slight if the
range is not overstocked and the ani
mals are properly handled. Often, it is
stated, they are of real benefit in keep
ing down inflammable brush and thus aid
in protecting forests from fire.
The goats are grazed in bands of 600
to 2,500, though the smaller herds are
more common. Sheds are necessary dur
ing the kidding season, since the newly
born kids are almost as helpless as ba
bies and must be protected from the
cold and wet. After they get to be six i
or eight weeks old it is bard to kill them
with a club, as one ranger put it.
When the kids are small they are not
allowed to run with their mothers. Some
times they are kept in a corral just high
enough to prevent them from jumping
out, but low enough to allow the nan
nies to jump in. Often each kid is tieJ
out to a stake and the mother comes
in during the day so the kid can have its
dinner.
When grown the roate have consider
ably more agility and courage than sheep
an active part in the household duties
until she was taken sick.
.The funeral will be held at St. Sylve?.
ter's Catholic church at 9 o'clock Tues
day morning.
Mr. and Mrs. D. .1. Murray and chil
dren have returned from a motor trip
to Springfield, Mass.
Mrs. William McKee and family have
gone to Kinnears Mills, P. Q., to make
an extended stay.
Miss Annie Sheridan of Barre is visit
ing relatives here.
Small Milk Producers Going Out of Bus
iness.
Adverse conditions to small dairyipg
are known as the toicords. Dewings,
Peiirsous and Yaws, living in various
places. Edwin R. Towle is now the only
male of the name Towle of his genera
tion living.
As each generation is so well supplied
with boys it would seem probable that
the farm and home may "be, kept in the
familv for an indefinite time.
RUSS0-JAPAN TREATY.
Causes No Little' Speculation in United
States.
Washington, P. C, July 8. Official
of the L'nited State government are
awaiting fuller information regarding the
projects are driving the little producers i nPW treaty between Russia and Japan
out of business, according to Farm and (before forming any judgment as vo
Virgin, tha I ,.. I whether it will affei t the onen door nnl-
lished in Springfield O ; icy or other American interests in the said then they had not received full par-
Boston. July 8. Acting for the heirs
of Mrs. Emma E. Boswick O'Donnell, the
bride of a few hours, who died suddenly
while on her wedding journey, Attorney
William R. Scharton filed a petition with
District Attorney Pelletier yesterday
afternoon, asking that Mrs. O'Donnell'
body, which is buried at Mt. Hope, be ex
humed for the purpose of performing an
autopsy.
Mrs. OlJonnell is said to have a for
tune of $500,000. She died on the train
ner Utiea, N. Y., while on her bridal
trip, which was scheduled to end at San j
f ran cisoo.
Attorney Scharton acts for George
Otte of Greenwich, Conn., a brother of
Mrs. O'Donnell; Emma J. Martin, a
niece, and Adelaide and Edwin Otte, chil
dren of Mrs. William Otte.
Mrs. O'Donnell was married in Brat
tleboro, Vt., Wednesday, June 28. She
was a widow and had but recently in
herited a fortune estimated to be be
tween ftOO.OOO and $500,000.
She had been married twice before. Her
name prior to her last marriage, was
Bostwick.
Dr. Louis P. O'Donnell, her husband,
has a large practice in Melrose, whero
the beautiful estate of Mrs. Bostwick is
located. He is twenty years younger
than the woman he married.
The marriage was performed by a jus
tice of the peace and was witnessed by
a party or ten tnenda wno accompanied
them from Boston.
" On their return from Vermont, Dr. and
Mrs. O'Donnell left for the West with
the intention of traveling through to
San Francisco.
Early the next morning Mrs. O'Don
nell died on the train aa the train was
passing through New York state. Her
body was removed at Utica.
ir j. a: Hf,
Jr' ' ' . irl Z. :l .. assembly with
port. Relatives of the bride refused at
the time to discuss the details. Thev
FATAL IN JURY AT E. GRANVILLE.
Pearl Lemery Struck by Rock in Talc
Mine.
Randolph, July 8. Pearl Lemerv died
t the Randolph sanatorium yesterday as
the result of an injury which he sus
tained the day before while working in
the talc mine at East Granville. He
tepped into an excavation, which, was
to be built for a tunnel, when a large
block came down and crushed one leg in
frightful manner. He was brought
here the same afternoon, with the hops
that the blood flow might be quenched;
but it was impossible to do this.
The young man was about 25 rears
old and was quite well known here where
he had frequently come to do business.
AUTO AND TEAM COLLIDED.
Four in Latter Vehicle Thrown Out, But
Not Hurt; Horse Got Broken Leg.
An automobile driven by A. B. Xel
son of Cabot and a team driven by D. J.
Perkins of Calais, collided, head-on, on
Main street in Montpelier this forenoon, j insurance exchange engineers,
By decisive majorities, the citizens of j
Barre voted last night to bond the city f
for JS-2,500 for three project $35,000 for
water main extensions and enlargements '
to give adequate fire protection to va- !
rious stoneshed districts, $33,500 for a i
granite pavement on South Main street :
from the present pavement to the Jail '.
brsnch and $14,000 for a new bridge over I-
Jail branch. Incidentally, the meeting !
recommended to the city council that a I
contract be made with the Barre Citizens' '
band for a series of 16 concerts this sum- '
mer at a cost of fl.000.
The meeting was quite largely attended ,
sijd occupied the greater part of two i
hours. Frank G. Howland was elected '
moderator and James Mackay acted aa
clerk of the meeting. The highest vote
cast waa 333 on the water proposition.
On motion of Alexander Duncan, presi
dent of the Granite Manufacturers' asso
ciation, the water bonding article was
picked from fourth position in the warn
ing and placed next after the article '
which called for the election of a mod
erator, because, as Mr. Duncan said, the
protection of the stoneeheds was a matter
of vital concern to the entire city.
That trs reposit ion completed, the meet
ing got speedilv to work .on the water
bonding proposition, the discussion start
ing off with" a statement of the condi
tions as found by the New England In
surance exchange engineers, who conduct
ed a test in Barre last spring as the re
sult of agitation by the Granite Manu
facturers' association for lower insurance
ratos. After presenting a resolution call
ing for the bonding of the city for not
more than $35,000 for the purpose, Alder
man J. A. Healy called upon City En
gineer Lee to make a statement of the
estimated cost of the water main enlarge
ments and extensions. The city engineer ;.
told of the proposed changes of the mains 1
leading to Batchelder's meadow, to the
section in the rear of the Central Ver
mont station, the Smith meadow section,
the Gnle meadow section and the Jones
Bros, section. In nearly every case it-i
was proposed to double the size of the ;
pipe over that now in the ground. The ,
total cost of the laving of the mains ;
was estimated at $30,860, and the cost of '.
installing hydrants and gates was fixed '
at $4,000, making a total of $34,860.
Next, Alderman Healy told of the find
ings in the actual tests conducted by tha
in which
and Mr. and Mrs. Perkins and two ehil
dren were thrown out but not injured
seriously. Their horse sustained a broken
leg and had to be shot.
There was a disagreement among the
spectators as to the blame for the col
lision. Mr. Nelson, who was driving a
Buick vehicle, w-as proceeding up the
street In the vicinity of Mayor Bout-
well s house when he met the team.
SERVE WITHOUT PAY.
Vermont Legislators To Be Asked To Be
Patriotic.
The farmer who produces the milk
jhas been getting the bad end of the tran
saction. He has been the victim of a
good deal of nonsensical regulation and i
inspection. Without doubt, the eonsum
er has profited in the improvement of
milk, but he haa paid enough more for
the added quality to justify the farmer
WirMtlura fltvillh the rfkAt
The funeral services were held Mon
day. The body was buried at Mt. Hope.
WEBSTERVILLE.
far East. Outlines ot the convention
given in news dispatches and in brief offi
cial reports reaching the state depart
ment and the embassies here fail to dis
close certain features considered vital to
a correct construction of the document.
While the official announcement made
in Tokio reveals no feature that threat-
in expecting a better price for bis prod- ens the maintenance of the open door or ;nod ot petulance, lament, Diaspnemy and .evening at 7 o'clock.
urt. otherwise menaces American trade da-; irenziea preparation uwut a vBiinevm.
"Th Mminr Ts,-;n aiu,, vpl.mmenfc in the Orient, officials are house, whicii need not oe nere detailed
"Blue Monday" in Vaudeville.
"Monday morning." says Jack Lait in
the July American Magazine, is a
Rutland, July 8. Representative
George E. Chalmers of this city, who is
a candidate for state senator at the
coming election, has started a move
ment to have the ermont legislators
show their patriotism by serving with
out compensation if they are called to
gether at a special session to vote pay
to the .National Guardsmen. He has sent
out a letter to every member of the 1914
reply card. He suggests
that senators and representatives serve
without expense to the state, except ac
tusl mileage allowance.
tests the streams thrown were far below
the standard of pressure, at 45 pounds.
In some instances the actual pressure
was only five pounds, due to the small
size of the mains leading to the section
mentioned. At the Barclay Bros.' plant,
for instance, one stream could not be
thrown to the roof of the granite shed.
A moment later on interrogation from
John Bishop, Alderman Healy said that
the proposed changes in the mains would
not bring the city s fire protection to a ,
point as mapped out by the insuranca ;
exchange for a better rating only in so
far as the furnishing of water is con
cerned; the increased equipment of the'
fire department, etc., is not being consid- ;
ered at this time, for, as the alderman .
stated, you must first have the water or
a dozen fire departments would not do
any good.
Harvey Hersey thought the citv was
borrowing trouble before the trouble had
come; he didn t believe the trouble waa
at hand. H. W. Scott queried the city
engineer about a 10-inch gate on a 12
inch pipe on South Main street, and En
gineer Lee replied by stating that the
10-inch gate was put in only temporarily
and is to be replaced next Sunday by a
12-inch gate.
Just, after a further elucidation of tho
situation by Alexander Duncan, John ;
Tierney asked for information. F. A.
Walker told of the inefficiency of a four
inch main, such as that running to Batch-
elder'6 meadow.
With that discussion, the meeting, by(
and Egtit off coyotes and other predatory gs muoh for milk as the farmer get for much interested in a reference to the rec-
animals.
Most of the roads sre raised for their
! it, and the
primary price, generally iognition of "special interests in the far
nair wmeo brings iron, to ) cents j,,Kttt with th infreuse in thp of pro.
pound, according as fashion dictates that dxyt ion. We hear a lot .bout the in-
monair ana aipac is or is not to be;crwd rwt of living nowadays; it is
worn. The average cut of hair is ssid increasing for bossy as well as for the
to be about 21? pounds per animal. jreJt f ,
Unlike sheep, which can go l.,ng pe-1 "Official's of both of the federal and
nods wiinoui water, the gats
A more definite statement on that pro
vision is looked for, particularly as the,
interests referred to are described in the '
announcement as those "which are rec-'
ognized bv tbe other contracting part v.".
This language, if embodied in the all
TALK OF THE TOWN
At the Church of the Good Shepherd,
as DeQuincey, the well-known hophead. j
told all there is to say about panic spJ j
orernight jumps in 'The Flight of a Tar- J
scpr.no and the baritone comic, but they I " es ' rW " f"1!ur :
are married: the headline is expl.inmg . n",n'on fi .m- "nrmation anm
to the carpenter where he is .11 wrong.' ,rti.30-. "".f" Bt 7 tlock-
wrong: trunks .re Dancing in. and . .
treaty, might be e-mstrued, officials be- the juggler is telling the oboe blower i
mu-tlth At A t A Aairxr nsnartm,nll lur Kadii
have water frequently and their range j startled at the number of small milk Iiev,"s completely excluding the Unit-how, when he pl.yed in Austria well, it; Mrs. Kste Gallagher, who h.s been
has to be planned with -this in mind.
The herding, it is said, has ben rvn
siderded a lazy man's job. In the pat
the animals have been g"n little at
tention and some owners tiU follow the
ld flan.
r.rodurers whn an irmnir rait nl h Hi,.. .t States or anv other nation except;as .11 different: the trained mongooses 1 v:it ing with her iter. Mrs. Lucv Cor
mesa. Only a. few years .go a large pro- j 'af sn sn.f Rusia from having ny voice .re taking exercises and the untrained ,ooran of Short street, for the pes-t month,
portion of fanners kept from a half doz- in determining what properly might be : contralto is taking cold because the alley , returned to her home in Burl'ngton t i'.s
en to a dozen tnilcb cow. because they I regarded as either Japanese or Russian !d'or n:ust stay open to let in the Engli.-u j morning. he ! iprompinwd by Mi -afforded
a Meady cah income month by ene.-ial interes-ts in Chin., Mongolia c-r entrihquit"a luggage and the Ameriojj Helen Kkkham. who will M,it with Bur
moiitV " ' Haa-ihuria. dancer", bsggsge.' Lngtcn fr.enis for ;wal d.v,
St. John the Baptist Episcopal Church,
Websterville W. J. M. Beattie. rector.
Evening prayer and sermon by the bish
on at 3 o'clock to-morrow afternoon.
Ps" iChildren's concert in the vestrv Monday ,an n" nB.v yMf- "dptd tne lourxn
article, to see if the city win vote to is
sue note or bonds, by a tremendous vo
cal majority. Then came the balloting
on the resolution of Alderman Healy to
bond for $3.vnno. The reeolution was as'
follows:
Resolved. That the city of Barr
iue its water notes or bonds, or
both, in . sum not to exceed $35,000
for the purpoe of enlarging and ex
tending the atr mains and improv
ing the fire protection of the city.
That said water notes or bonds be
datnl nd issued as the needs of the
city require, when so decided by the
city council by resolution duly passed.
Sai l bonds shall be coupon h m is. and
the principal and interest shall be
both services.
(Continued on sec-cl pi"4 . j
