' .
FULL LEASED
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
:
WIRE DISPATCHES
yf
u-- M ' "W- V Ii- ft JillMlirv Ul,.ff..flf ..lints TA7V7Ajr A'Nl'Mr 1 VLVIV IV1V1VV
i."
s
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR . SALEM OREGON.ATURDAY, JULY 8, 1916 PRICE TWO CENTS StYc
SWlY CUT OFF " "j 5, "SB . flfflHS SAY VILLA MAY I
BY QUICK s PSSIAN DASH ramontstiss- PREVENT AN AGREEMENT
Force Estimated at From 1 1 K)0 to 30,000 Left Helpless
When Slavs Capture" Railroad-Cornered Against
Mountains May Be Forced to Surrender-Indications Are
Austroermans.Wfll Fall Back-Rain Checks Battle
Along Belgian Front
S SBSIBBBBnSSBBBSnBnsae
Petrograd, J uly 8. An Austrian f orce estimated at be
tween 20,000 and 30,000 has been cut off by the Russians
southwest of Kolomea.
The Austrians were massed east of the railway lead
ing southward through Jablonitza pass. The sudden dash
of a Russian infantry body that seized the railway station
of Mikluiczyn, cut off their retreat to the south. The
right wing of the same Russian army advancing west
ward upon Nadvorna, severed their communication with
the Austrian forces to the north.
The latest reports to the war office said that Russian
troops were attempting to squeeze the Austrians against
the foothills of the Carpathians and effect their capture
before they can escape through the mountain passes.
' Russian aeroplane scouts report the withdrawal of
enemy heavy artillery on the right wing of General Von
Bothmer's Austro-German army. There are other indi
cations that Von Bothmer, hard pressed by the Russians
advancing on Nadvorna and Stanislau, is preparing to fall
back on the whole Galician front.
From Volhynian battleground northward, the Ger
mans continue a most stubborn defense. On the Riga
Dvinsk front and in the fighting around Sokul, where the
Russians have made further progress, the enemy is coun
ter attacking with great vigor.
By Ed Zi. Keen.,- .
(United Press staff correspondent.)
London, July 8. The super-offensive
of the allies' armies entered its second
week today with the allies everywhere
attacking and maintaining their early
gains at practically every point despite
heavy counter attacks. .
A heavy downpour of rain throughout
yesterday afternoon converted the bat
tle ground on both sides of the Nomine
into a great sea of mud last night and
seriously hampered operations. Despite
this handicap, the French war office to-
aay claimed sugnt further progress
nouin oi tne nouime, with the taking of
400 prisoners.
The British troops north of the Som-
uie, after scoring important successes
against the Germans in yestorday's
xiguuug, contented themselves last
night with improving their positions.
The fighting at the Village of Contalma
iron reported a deudlock during the
ight, with the British holding the
western and the' Germans the eastern
part of the ruined town.
No official estimates of either the
German or British losses have been
made by the war office since the of
fensive began at 7:30 last Saturday
morning, but the Germans are unoffici
ally reported to have lost from 30,000
to 40,000 in killed and wounded besides
nearly 20,000 taken prisoners by the
British and French. Special dispatches
from Paris today reported that 5.000
.Prussian guardsmen, the flower of the
kaiser's army, were killed in the early
days of the fighting, but this may be
an exaggeration.
British Capture Gains.
General Haig reported that in the
last few days the British have captured
u guns, si machine guns, numerous
.automatic rifles, trench mortars, mine
throwers and other war material.
The operations on the Kussian front,
where the Wnv offensive continues to
flpread and develop in power, are being
watched with the greatest interest here.
It 's nice t' live in a little town where
ven a cow kin git her name in the pa
yer. Uncle Es Pish says he kin remem
ber when only folks that amounted t
eomethin wore frock coats.
-fpoKt intnrfl
London military critics ore certain, that'
the retirement of Ueuerai Bothmer's
army under Russian pressure in ' Gn
licia is now but a matter of days.'
On the other hand wild rumors that
the Austro-Germans have begun a gen
eral retreat from Riga to southeastern
Galicia-are discredited by all reliable
news sources and are not borne out in
official dispatches from Petrograd. Lon
don has high hopes for the success of
the new 81av offensive but does not
entertain the belicfg that General Von
tilndenburg's line can be smnshed with
the same ease as was General Pflanzer's
in Bukowina.
General Haig 'a report this afternoon
announced minor engagements on the
British front extending northward from
Ancre brook.
At Gommecourt, the scene of heavy
fighting at the opening of the allied
drive, British field guns and trench
mortars bombarded enemy trenches last
night. Near Neuville-Saint Vaast, north
of Arras and north of Hoclincourt the
Germans were active yesterday. They
exploded a mine northeast of Neuville
without causing any damage, and ex
ploded crates near the Hohenzolleru
redoubt with no advantage. Northeast
of Hulluch, a British mine destroy
ed an enemy gallery.
British aeroplanes gave valuable ser
vice yesterday, despite the unfavorable
weather. They aided in important re-
connaisauce work and completely wreck
ed an enemy hangar, besides doing oth
er material damoge.
French Make Gains.
Taris, June 8. French troops broke
the lull in the lighting south of the
Somme last night, with slight further
advances against the German lines
southwest of Peronne.
"In fighting near Belloy-En-Sun-tcere,
the French captured 350 prison
ers in the course of a bold stroke made
Friday evening, the war office stated
today.
"East of the Village of Estrees, the
French made progress with grenades in
a German trench, capturing 50 prison
ers. "Bad weather generally blinded our
operations on the Homme front through
out the night."
North of Laasigny (20 miles south of
the Somme), a German detachment at
tempted to carry a small French post
but was dispersed.
On the Verdun front a violent artil
lery straggle was waged last night, par
ticularly on the sectors of Hill 304, Es
nes, Souville and Damlonp. There were
no infantry actions.
In Lorrain, a French grenade attack
cleaned up an enemy post tear Bezan
ge. -.X
- Russians Capture Towns.
Petrograd, July 8. Russian troops
have captured the villaees of Dolnitia.
Gruziatin and Manevitchi, in the region
of Kolki, in hot bayonet fighting, the
war office announced today.
East of Baronovitch, the Germans
pressed back the Russians slightly but
were later compelled to retire by Rus
sian fire.
Southeast of Lake Naroez the Ger
mans recaptured part of the trenches
last 'lhuraday. ' The fighting on that
front continues.
Austrians Retreating.
. Berlin, via wireless to Sayville, L. I,
(Continued on Page Severn.)
San Franeipco, July 8. California
progressives were usged to act collect
ively both in the democratic and re
publican parties by Governor Hiram
Johnson in a speech at the progressive
state conference here this Afternoon.
ine governor declared that if pro
gressives did not act in concert, their
legislation, won while the party '.was
in power here, might be lost. He said
that while the progressive national
party has censed to exist, progressive
ism still lives and that progressives
win continue lighting both the old or
gamzations wrere imbued with their
spirit.
Johnson left the former bull moose
adherents to decide for themselves
which candidate Hughes or Wilson
to support. He said he would en
large on his personal reasons for up
holding Hughes later on.
in conclusion the governor reviewed
his work in office and said he had al
ways done his best in spite of the at
tacks of his enemies and efforts of
"millionaire newspaper owners" and
politicians to sway him. The approv
al of the plain people, he asserted,
meant more to him than the advocacy
ot all the "millioaaire newspaper
owners.''
Think Lansing Has
Promised Withdrawal
Mexico City. July 8. That Secretary
of State Lansing has pledged the with
drawal o'f American troops from Mexico
in his answer to the Mexican note is the
popular belief here.
The people are awaiting expectantly
for the contents of the note. It is the
general impression that the United
States has abandoned the idea of inter
vention and has expressed a willingness
to negotiate future difficulties.
There is great satisfaction over the
practical solution of their difficulties.
reports that Mexico and the United
&aam will ..Anil l.n.1. - P. . 1 - 1
. i iul" uuiu a uruvciui aim i
change and .it is quite likely that dem
onstrations and parades to show friend
ly feeling for the United States will be
held tomorrow.
satisfactory solution of trouble. different statets, but it was pointed out the. lust fortnight in buildings supply
hentiment has undergone a mawed j these were mostly isolated eases. . inir the army with nrovlnion. nn,l ...tn
'
j . We Have With Us Tonight
1 ... .
t. o. BUga is proprietor and manager of the Blign, Liberty and Grand the atrea. He also conducts the popular .
BUgh hotel, recently yery much enlarged and improved, and has a few ether enterprises on the tide. Naturally Mr.
BUgh la as busy as he Is enterprising.
Ten Thousand Citizens Mem-
DCrS 01 Home UetenSe
I ii li I ,
liCOgUC IrfUlCU VUl
"
i
KHZ TASKS SINPF START
vwiwu vtnill
DIED DURING WEEK 126
'
Dr. 1 J at I aii
naygrounas and nearly All
rllnllR KeSnrte i .IfKAil tl
mm.'
ChilnrPII '
viiuui Vll '
iscw orK, July S. Ten thousand
New York citizens, members of the
Home Defense league, were, called out
today by Acting Police Commissioner!.
M" y i "ia in ine xignt Deing
oy government and municipal
authorities against the infantile
paralysis epidemic. Eighteen more
uvan.ua vucts wrrp rvpunca to-
day. This brinea the total number of!
deaths for the week up to 125 and the
.v.-. .mnt i cust-ii rrpunru to me
health authorities to 892. A majority ot
iue aearns and new cases were in
Brooklyn. -
ith six federal health nf ficem
der the leadership of Dr. William V.
tiucKer nerei efforts to curb the disease
were redoubled today. It
however, that the excess heat it was
nearly 90 this afternoon was likelv
to cause additional deaths and more
new cases.
From 4 o'clock until midnight each
day, a league member will accompany a
patrolman in nis rounds and assist him
in seeing that his orders re not vio
lated. Federal health oTf ieera we re adrnti-
tedly disturbed fcy Reports of. inf anti.e
paralysia apepaTing In-nearly a dozen
The deaths and new cases reported
today were divided as follows: - i
(Continued on Page Eight.)
I By Robert J. Bender.
I (United Press staff correspondent.)
, Washington, July 8. President Wil-
I son will make no effort to rehabilitate
I U.vlnv u.Ul. A . rt
CIal C&rranza requests it. Administra
1 ,; ::!. 1 .. .1 .1...
VS&SSSl" now
This is not due to the fact that Car
ranza does not need money, but to fears
' among Mexican officials that full trust
. "" be placed i this country, car-
eign loan would mean right of inter
vention as a loaning power to collect its
interest. Up to the present Carranza
hug rPfu8ed to consider borrowing from
I any loreign country,
' I Within the last two weeks, however,
lwo t"g' "ave occurred which may
I?8"1, " co-operative plan between
whi(.h Bn Amei.ican loan may result.
In the first place an earnest effort
has been made to convince Carransista
agents of the sincerity of Presideut
Wilson in denlinir with Xievion that tl.
'. United States may be looked upon as a
inena or too republic.
ThU work it) n )rinri V Vinnpincp fruit
aud some of these agents are expect-
ed to return to Mexico t'ity soon carry
iug their report to Carranza,
In the . second . place, the reply of
President Wilson to Carranza rs last
chief to suggest not only means of
ending the border trouble but also of
: '
El Paso Fire Due To
- Mexican Incendiaries
El Paso, Texas, July 8. A Mexican
plot to burn all El Paso buildings con
nected with the United States has been
umifiTthed hv frnvernmAnt anerof uttvina
' men. it was learnd today. Rsrjonsibil-
ity for 4500,000 fire loss lrere within
mobiles and in the reconstruction of Fort
Bliss corrals, is laid to the ouerations
of the "Mexicaa fire brigade," as the
plotters caned themselves.
Is Reported As Nearly Well of His Wounds and To Be Rais
ing An Army In Southern Chihuahua-Peons Reported
Flocking To Job Him May Yet Get Strong Enough ts
Overthrow Carranza-War Department Does Not Be
lieve He Is Afire
El Paso, Texas, July 8. Francisco Villa is reported to
day to be marching from Jiminez to Chihuahua City,
while contradictory advices from Carranzista sources de
clared the de facto government troops had re-occupied
Jiminez and were driving the bandits southward. Car
ranzista officials do not admit that Villa himself is lead
ing the rebels.
The Villistas have issued
lions of pesos of the bandit
throughout Chihuahua and
much support by promising
worthless paper.
it ormer Villistas in small Carranzista carrisons of
southern Chihuahua are reported to have rejoined their
old leader. The idol of the peons in northern Mexico,
Villa, in reports which declare he is alive, is said to be re
cruiting a strong force to overthrow Carranza and drive
out the Americans. He is paying his soldiers and buying
provisions with the new issue of currency, according to
unofficial sources. - The rebels have confiscated ammuni
tion and guns found in the small hamlets and also have
obtained arms from Carranzista deserters and from
mountain caches. .1 :x .
Villa May Spoil All.
ban Antonio, Texas, July 8. Army
officials here believe a single factor
wur render useless the- attempts to ad
just the difference -between, the .United
mates aud Mexico by diplomatic nego
nations, mat. i&ctor is raocno villa,
who appareatly has resumed his bandit
operations on a lurger scale than at any
ime since nis overwhelming defeat by
varranr.a torces nearly a year ago.
Villa will, increase the size of his
forces until they become a real menace
to Mexican and American border towns
alike, army officers believe, necessitat
ing the dispatch of other punitive ex
peditious into M-.tico to round him up.
General Funston has received the war
department instructions to discharge all
militiamen with dependent families.
The soldiers must take the initiative,
furnishing written applications with af
fidavits that they have persons de
pendent upon them.
Funston has been obliged to subdi
vide the Brownsville district because
Brigadier General Parker, the regular
army officer in command there, was
outranked by Major General O'Ryan of
the New York national guard. Parker
was given chnrgo of the regulars and
O'Ryan the militia.
Relaxing Embargo.
Washington, July 8. The war depart
ment considered today relaxing its em
bargo along the Mexican border. It
will not permit, however, shipments of
arms and ammunition to the Mexicans
nt this time.
On the other hand, supplies of a gen
eral character, which have fallen under
the embargo, probably will be permitted
to pass freely for a week or two. The
occasion for the proposed relaxation 1b
the difficulty encountered by General
Pershing In getting his own supplies
through by private means.
Movement of the troops northward in
Mexico and persistent reports that Vil
la is olive are keeping the department
on the alert for possible trouble.
The state department believes stories
that Villa is still alive, while the war
department doubts them.
On the state department's view the
stay of General Pershing's forces in
Mexico would be justified; on the war
department idea, no military juatfica
tiou can be found, officials say. The
troops will not be withdrawn, however,
pending negotiations between the de
facto and American governments over
border patrol and other border diffi
culties. -
Rumors About Bandit.
Washington, July 8. "Unsupported
rumors were again received today of the
presence of Villa at a place called
Canutillo, on the Rio Florida, west of
Parral," said a war press bureau an
nouncement today.
"It Is said that Villa's wounds were
caused by a bullet that passed through
tne back muscles or both thighs, without
striking a bone and that Villa has re
covered sufficiently to walk with a
limp and to ride with greater case," the
statement said.
The war department did not place
faith in this or other stories that Villa
is alive. The state department, which
also has reports on the subject, was
teas skeptical.
Big Battle today.
F.l Paso, Texas, July 8. Fighting is
still In progress near Baca, between
Jiminez and Parral, but a Villista col
umn under OeneraL Calixio OontreraM
and a Carranza force. Three thousand
new Mexican currencv. Mil
leader's old currency is held
he is reported to.be obtaining
to redem the now practically
men are engaged on both sides, the Car
ranzistas attempting to check Villa 'a
advance on Parral. Official announce
ment of the battle was made by General
Francisco GoMak'i.jQiunmudsnt in Cin
dad Juarez, across the Rio Grande, this
afternoon. i - -- - - f
Unofficial advices reported Fraoeiaeo
Villa at the head ef .1,000 mea advanc
ing to attack Parral. Villa, the re
port etated, .evacuated Jiminez, which
ho. captured two days ago and cut com
munication lines north of Parral.
Parral is garrisoned by 1,00(1 Carrari
zistas under General Ernesto Gomea.
Villa is reported to have enlisted 600
men in Jimines south of Pararl,
On Instructions from First Chief Car
ranza, Gcnoral Trevlno released $50,000
worth of gold bullion belonging to the
Alvarado Mining company recently con
fiscated by Trevino. The bullion arrived
today from Chihuahua for its American
owners here. ' ' - i
14 Mexicans Killed.
El Paso, Texas, July 8. Fourteen
Mexicans are reported to have been
killed in a running fight wita employee
on Tom Porrine's rnnoh, about 32 miles
up the Rio Grande in New Mexico, i
Three Americans Are '
Said To Be Captured
In Mexican Bandit Raid
F4 Taso, Texas, July 8. Three Amer
icans are reported to havo been cap
tured and carried into Mexico by Mex
ican bandits who Invaded the United
Htates in the Big Bend country today
and' attacked the properties of the
Puerto Rico Mining company. v
The American employes with rifles
for a time stood off the bandits from
a mine shed but were forced to retreat
to the foothills. Three are reported
to have been captured by the raiders.
Tom Perrine telephoned - from- hie
Anapra, N. M., ranch this afternoon,
claiming he and two employee killed
fourteen Mexicans out of a party of
forty who crossed the border and
drove off half a hundred head of Per
rine 's cattle. .-
Still a third raid, in which 'Carran
zista are said to have cooperated
with the bandits, was reported to have
taken place at Terlingua, Txeae.
Whether company K, Tenia militia,
which was stationed at Terlingua, en
gaged the bandits Is not known here.
The raiders at the Puerto Eico com
Danv'a property set fire to buiWnge
after looting stores and houses.
. .
THE WEATHER Z
Oregon: To
night and Sun
day fair; cooler
east portion;
westerly winds.
1 NEE A 7
