Vol- 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 18, 1916 N619 I
Entirely Justified
' 'X'HB Democrats are celebrating their victory
f with a good deal of noise. They ought to if
i noise will drown their own thoughts. Let us see.
t To help win his re-election the Democratic
i president went back on his own formally ex-
i pressed ideas; prostituted his own dignity; de-
based the sovereignty of the Great Republic, and
r assessed the people $60,000,000 per annum to
E : -' gain the votes of the members of some labor
i unions.
7 It involved, moreover, the most corrupt bar-
y gain ever entered into by a president of the
I' United States.
For more than three score years the one fixed
' principle of the Democratic party has been oppo-
sition to a protective tariff. This year it bartered
away this principle to the sugar trust, the con
I sideration being from nine to twelve electoral
I votes.
It went into control endorsing free tolls on
the Panama canal for American coast shippers.
At the beck of the overland railroads it reversed
that profession and rushed a measure through
I congress levying the tolls.
It went into office promising a merchant ma
rine which should be worthy of the country, and
was to run and prosper without subsidies or boun
ties. The sudden breaking out of a great foreign
war made clear how much this country had suf
fered and was still suffering for want of such
marine, but the party in power watched and wait
ed two years, and then passed a bill providing
I for such marine to be run on the private account
of the government.
I The party went into power promising not to
disturb any legitimate enterprise, and never
rested until it placed this country on a free trade
basis. That is, all except the sugar trust and
rice that grows luxuriantly all the way from the
swamps of Georgia and Florida to the Pacific
ocean.
It went into power promising absolute economy
and though it passed an income tax law which it
claims has gathered through taxation from the
men of property $250,000,000 and has spent the
last cent of it in the ordinary expenses of the
government.
It promised the people cheaper food and cloth
ing. It permitted the brigands of Mexico to rob and
murder American citizens at will, then went into
the late campaign claiming the people's gratitude
and confidence because it had kept the country
out of war. And the result justified Villa's re
mark that Americans are white Chinamen and
the world's conclusion that the men of the United
States are "too proud to fight," and that the way
to win in the United States is to appeal to the
yellow streak in the people. The party is justi
fied in making noisy clamors over its victory.
Great Britain Glad
f 'T'HE states where the great manufacturing
plants are situated and the millions of em
ployees find places to work, all went for Mr.
Hughes except Ohio. The trouble with Ohio for
fifteen years past has been a surplus of states
men. Since the big war Ohio has had five native
sons for presidents and now when the "Republi
can party gives the nomination to anyone from
some other state, Ohio feels it a duty to resent
what she holds as an obvious wrong. Then she
has her local factions within the party, and they
are so bitter that they cannot forget the welfare
of the country is at stake. This year their quar
rels have been most contemptible. But no mat
ter; we merely wanted to call attention to the
fact that the states on which labor most de
pends for wages, all but one went for Mr. Hughes.
Even New Jersey with its Princeton prestige
could not stand the economic policies of the De
mocracy. Her voters realized what conditions
would now have been had not the war in Europe
come, what they will be when that war stops.
No wonder the London press is rejoiced over
the result of our election. Since the great war
began and the German merchant ships have been
forced to cover, Great Britain's merchant marine
has been doing an immense business and Great
Britain has recovered her old prestige on the
sea, and in the estimation of foreign countries,
especially those of Spanish America. All she
lacked was the full swing of the United States;
her carrying trade on the sea and practically
free trade on land. Hence she feared greatly the
election of Mr. Hughes and rejoices correspond
ingly over the re-election of one who has proven
that he favors all her ideas. But the great manu
facturing states, all save Ohio, showed by their
votes that under an extended Democratic rule
was their especial fear when Europe shall cease
fighting and begins to recuperate by the foreign
trade that will be resumed, chief of these will be
Great Britain and hence her present satisfaction
over the result of our election, which is a guar
antee of practically free tradeijmd the continued
trade rule of the 3eas. .1 '
The Republicans of (5jgft,$t least a mighty
contingent of them sho(l!ff b sent to a reform
school. '" "
Why The Grouch
CAYS a good Democratic friend: "O, do not belly
ache! A good American should accept -cheerfully
the verdict of the people at the polls even If
personally disappointed with the result."
That is eminently true, but it hurts a little
when fifteen men, none of whom are known as
great statesmen, virtually cast the votes of sev
eral hundred thousands of supposedly free men.
Shortly after the war of the Rebellion, a. gentle
man from Alabama went to New York City to try
to raise money for a really promising enterprise.
He was told that his enterprise really seemed a
promising one, (but there would be grave doubts
about his obtaining the money. "When he asked
why, he was told that it was because of social con
ditions in Alabama, to which he responded: "Now
the North ought to get over those prejudices. I
assure you, sah, we in the South have. On my
honor, sah, the nigger is just as free to vote in
the South as any white man. Of course we do
not count the nigger's vote but we do not inter- M
fere with his voting, sah." M
The trouble hero is that the majority here vote
on proxies and too many of these are issued to M
satisfy the peope who believe that the freedom M
of this country rests on an untrammeled foallot.
In the late election those who held and voted M
those proxies not only voted against their own fl
convictions of right but against the convictions
of the chief working Hosts of this republic, and H
their ballots record a crime against free Institu- H
tions.
Our Nation's Financial Position )H
lWj R. McAdoo, secretary of the treasury, In a M
AVA long article in the New York Times, do-
clares that the United States leads in financial ,
power, and that to say our prosperity rests on '
war orders is indefensible.
If he means to say that just now the United M
States has more money than any other power, M
that is doubtless correct. M
But if he means to say that the vast sums f
did not come from war orders, or that, without iM
any war in Europe we should now have the tre-
mendous surplus, any boy of sixteen can Bee that M
he is talking through his hat. M
And when he says that the United States .,M
leads in financial power, does ho mean that this M
lead is permanent or due entirely to the present 1
war and will swiftly pass when peace is restored, '
or that we shall continue to hold that position? iM
Let us consider for a moment the real situa- M
tlon. When the war broke out both Great Brit-
ain and Germany were installed strongly in coun- J
tries all around the world. They had lines of
fast steamers running to all important ports. M
They had mercantile houses .established in all M
important ports; they had banks in very many M
foreign ports, and their citizens were interested in M
T railroads, lands, mines, cities and multifold other .;H
forms of properties in all countries of promise. -:
Now what will prevent their resuming all the l
business that the war stopped, in all those coun- H
tries when peace is restored? M
And how has the United States been prepar- H
ing to compete with those countries in foreign H
lands when the war stops? H
Has she or have her citizens established any H
banks or trading stations in any of them? Have jl
the eyes of the people of those countries become
accustomed to the sight of the American flag IH
on American ships in their ports? What have ;H
wo done to win either the respect, confidence or B
affection of the people of those lands? How many Q
people in say South America, who live back one -H
hundred miles from the coast, know that there jH
is such country as the United States, or aught H
of the wealth and power of the Great Republic? V
A boor may find a treasure-trove, but if he '9
keeps it locked up what does it avail him, or H
how does it increase the respect for or trust in
him? H
Mr. McAdoo is a sanguine gentlemen, but he H
has long been in the public eye and up to date
has never established a reputation for superior H
genius or profound statesmanship.
