-sgsaig&gj
jsthat
NIGHT
EXTRA
ianming
NIGHT
EXTRA
o
,v
A--M
J 5is.
1 yoh. IH.-NO. 57
PUIIiAIELPHIA SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1018
i
CoMiuitT, 1919, it tiii rcnuo Ltnii coxmki
PRIOB ONE CENT
till
P
EASTERN PHILADELPHIA SUFFERS
All of Phllndolphin cast of Broad street and south of Kensington avenuo and Frankford Creek found Itself
without water today becauso of a broken- 48-inch main at Whcatshcaf lano and Jasper stroct. Excavations for
e sewer, it is believed, so weakened tho support of tho main that the pressure of tho water caused the hugo pipe
id burst. Tho first rush of water broke down tho boarding on cither side of tho sewer excavation nnd under
mined tho surrounding mounds of dirt and rock. Tho mam split lengthwise, 'like nn egg shell. A portion of
the main is seen at tho right of tho picture.
FRANCO-SERBIANS
DRIVE CLOSER TO
MONASTIR GATES
Capture More Trenches and
ptorm Jtiiu 12S13S xaice
Kanena
WISH WIN ON STRUMA'
PETROGRAD, Nov. 18. Consistent
srocress southward In JJobrudln is
;i3ax maintained by tlie Russian forces
Irajfjaimt, Field Marshal von Mackcnscn,
f
f jfrordins to the War Office statement
icday.
$
Persistent enemy attacks continue in
Vie valleys of tho Alt and Jiul, in
;g ramylvania.
BUCHAREST, Nov. 18. Not only
jfT0 German attacks been repulsed in
lEe sector of Dragoalavele, but the Ru
manians have made progress there, tho
War Office reported today. Dragosla-
jele is north of Campulung in tho
Jransylvanian Alps. t
' PETRORRAll. Nov. 18. Russian ar-
: lillexy, stationed near Sarny, southeast
fftt Plnsk, has shot down a Zeppelin, it
;Wf stated in a dispatch from the front
.The' crew of sixteen was cap-
jf4
te' PATHS. Nov. 18.
fj raoco-tserman troops engageu in 1110
fejjous struggle for tha Macedonian fortress
jEfJlonastlr hava both mada fresh progress
b4 are now almost at the gates of tha olty.
!5th French "War Office. In Its coramunlqua
ay oq Balkan operations, announced that
Serbians have captured BOO yards of
ttnehea east of tha Cerna IUver and
Saraed Hill 1813, northwest of Iven..
At tha same time) tha Frenoh were at
Wong sou,th of Monsitlr and have now
flatbed the outskirts, of Kanena.
t Both, wings of General Sarrall's army are,
"Wrefore, forging ahead, and violent can
4ng In the center has made It seem
Buly ttat a Brest offensive' on the whole
l-eule front Is about to atart
ttla Western Macedonia fh Rrhn nnd
iJ eloslng In on Monastlr, the Bulgar
rynoa. wrested from the Qermans and
? Positions tormina- cart of the-In.
defenses of tha city. '
ijt Serbs, who are led by their Crown
rr- are pushing near Qrunlshte, on the
uaajt oi the Cerna. and In the bend
p Hver Berblan Infantry have carried
CwOana a Fata Two. Column roar
JTHE WEATHER
FORECAST
p? Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
n(t"nf moderatelu rnnl tnntnht
m
ll .Sunay, with moderate westerly
u
IWrtXfI 111 T1V
&!f $:.m.
gSt4WAKB R1VEB.T1DB CHANCES
CHESTNUT BTHEET
"Met 7.JS -, Ill.h u't.r llllnn,
eJWKIUTCBK AT KAOH IIOUB
!JJOt nitST
it 21 3T7 Ts"
4SMnTH"nBT
l
"The
.jJ&i
3w
l'n8
tJs
250 PRAY; BUREAU HEAD
IMPROVES INSTANTLY
Chief Frank Cummiskey, About
to Bo Operated Upon as Last
Hope, Grows Miracu
lously Better
RARE SCENE AT CITY HALL
PRANK J. CUMMISKEY
At 10 o'clock this morning; Frank J.
Cummiskey, chief of the pureau of City
Property, critically 111 from pneumonia, was
taken to St. Mary's Hospital, where he was
to undergo an operation as a last resort
to sava his llfe.vThe time of the operation
was set for 12; 30; news to that effect soon
spread tq City Hall.
At noon, by prearrang-ement, more than
S50 employes of tha Bureau of City Prop
erty gathered In the chief's offices In City
Hall, and with heads bared and bowed,
stood for Ave minutes In silent prayer In
tha wish that the operation might be suc
cessful. MIRACULOUS CHANOB
Within five, minutes, at 12:10 p. m.,
physiclanj at the hospital noticed a change
for the better In Mr. CummlskeyV condi
tion. The change was so remarkable that
Doctor Elwood Klrby called other physi
cians Into consultation to decide whether
the operation was needed. If the operation
Is performed at all today, It will not be
until later this afternoon. It was said. An
operation, In fact, may not be needed at all.
Judge William F, Campbell, who was
with Chief Cummiskey at tha hospital, said
that the quick change for the better In the
patient's condition was almost miraculous.
The scene In Chief Cummlskey's omce
was one of the most unusual and Impressive
ever witnessed In City Hall. It. was un
precedented, and news of the occurrence
soon spread among the several thousand
employes In the building.
With their heads bared and bowed, of
fice employes, laborers, and cleaners, both
men and women, gathered as soon as tha
clock struck twelve and prayed for five mln-
CantUued so Vast Two, Column Tbrte
s -
Vacant World" Begins on Page, 5
WATER FAMINE
MONSTER CROWD
SEES YALE CLASH
WITH PRINCETON
Both Sides Confident of Vic
tory in 42d Annual Tussle
on Gridiron v
ELI OUTWEIGHS' TI GETl
Princeton. . '
lllhle ...lft nd
Mcl.un Itft lacklc. ...
Nour left muni
(irnntrt f ' ntfr . . . . .
Hoc rlflit suiml . . ,
Mrtiran ,., rlplit tackle...
U'llxon rluli! j-ni!
ir.filv .- . .a tiartfrbac K
Yule.
. ... MtHfter
lntt
Illutk
. . CnlUlian
l'ox
... llatdrldio
Commfrfora
... iAi Ittiche
I.eicnr
Neville
Moore Irf C hiilflmrk.
Ames
, .. . .ru
lit Imlflmck..
I)rlf ...-! ...... fulltairk i,--.J,J"7!.V,
Kerrree ;. A. inn, uniwn, ,"t,,,rv"'
Wllllumn, IVnniirlTttnlii. I,lnfnmn h. H. i.ainl,
Annapolis. HH! Jinlgi I)nIU I.. Fult, llrown.
Time of period 15 inlnulf.
By SANDY McNIBLICK
PALMEIt STADIUM. PUINCBTOX N. J
Nov. 18. A horde of tlgor-strlpcd Princeton
athletes were first to tako tho field this
afternoon In the forty-second annual fracas
for football glory with Ynla In the Nassau
Coliseum. The team received a monster
demonstration from 2000 ylpplng Princeton
students, who marched to their scats behind
a band, aftor making tho arena tremble
with a volumo of cheers for the eleven In
whom they place their trust for a reversal
of last year's defeat at the hands of Yale.
Every seat of the row upon row In the
great bowl was taken nnd It was an
nounced that f,15G tickets had been sold.
At 1 o'clock n solid mass of people was lined
up for "stnndlng-room-only" tickets, so that
by tha time the game started the gray of
the stadium shelves was turned to tha black
of solid humanity.
Princeton was In the Bouth stands nnd
was bright with huge yellow chrysanthe
mums, which every fair rooter wore, and
tha brilliant orange pennants and ribbons,
the colors of Old Nassau.
Yale appeared on the field fifteen minutes
ntter the Princeton team and was greeted
with Yale's; war cry.
The crowd was one of the, largest that
ever attended the classic Yale-Princeton
game, Karly In the morning the streets of
historical Princeton were choked with dense
masses of humanity and all roads to the old
college town were thronged with motors
from New York, Philadelphia and distant
points. Nassau street was bounded on
both sides by solid stretches of motor cars
all day long, as were most of the other
streets. The famous Princeton clubhouses
overflowed with visitors, grey-haired alumni
and gaily dressed .feminine supporters.
Phtladelphlans at the game Included Miss
Mildred Caverly, Mr. and Mrs,VW. W.
Adams, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Donaldson.
Mr. and Mrs. B. A. Welhmayer, Mr, and
Mrs. J. McBurney, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
'Weeks, Mr. and Mrs, Perclal Foederer, Mr.,
and Mrs. W. W, Watson, Jr., Mr, and Mrs.
Frank Camp, Mr, and Mrs. Thomas Stock
hausen, Mr, and Mrs. Dale Filler, Daniel
F. Whtteman, Mrs. W. II, Tevis Huhn, Dr.
and Mrs. Charles Brown, Miss Margaret
Iarue, Mr. and Mrs. It. T. Dice, Mr. and
Mrs. T. Kearsley Mitchell, and party, Mrs.
A. Snydney Carpenter, Mrs. Edmund H.
McCullough and party, Mrs. George Knox
McIIvaln and party, Miss Julia Beck, Mr.
and Mrs, C. W. Beck, Jr., Miss Marguerite
Sill, Mr. and Mrs. SHI, Mr. and Mrs. Mor
gan, of Wyncoto, the Misses Betty and D.
MJtten, Mr- arid Mrs, Joshua. Ash Pearson,
Continued on l'uf Tblrteon. Column Two
THRONG SEES
MICHIGAN AND
PENN TUSSLE
Gay Scene at Ferry Field
When Red and Blue
Clashes With Wolverines
BERRY STARTS IN GAME
Presence in Line-up Kept Secret
by Folwcll Until Lnst
Moment
Today's Probable Line-up
Mtchltan
Dnnn
Melnmann.
(Irarr . . .
IVnn,
. ...lfl fn1 VrtiutiArt
. fffl tnrklr Mathtne
. Ifft tunrd llrnnlnc
ITIMIWIII ( , 1,111,, ,........, . .
Rfhor rlnlit Kiianl r.ritiTa
IVrotkl rlihl tncklr I.HIIn
I'fafh rliht end. Sillier
fijiark qiiarterhatk, Hell
Mnulbettth ... front half hnrk MfTT
Hnrmenri ... rear halfback I.ltht
Smith fullltttk Ilerry
ISfferf HolderneM. Ihljth. Umpire
Maine. Yale Field Jnuce -Oketon, lhlch.
Head linesman Cooner. Trlnrelon. Time
lo-mlnuto quarters. Ktrkoff -1 o'clock (3
o'elock eailcrn time).
Nelmajin
Du a 8tnff Comtpondtnt
FEIUtY FIELD, ANN AUDOn, Mich..
Nov. II. Over SO.000 football fans wended
their way Into this big stadium this after
noon to witness tho annual struggla on tha
gridiron between the Wolverines and the
University of Pennsylvania,
An hour nnd n half before 2 o'clock
(central time), when tho whlstlo's call was
scheduled to start tho game, thousands of
Michigan students nnd alumni, headed by
tho university band and gaudily arrayed
with the Malso nnd Blue, did tho snnka
danco Into tha field and took their scats on
the north sido of the field. Shortly after
this tho Pcnn students who accompanied
the team, along with a bunch of nlumnl
from Detroit nnd other cities In' this
vicinity, took tho special section on the
south side of tho field. Both bands of
rooters kept things lively with college songo
and yells until the two teams trotted on the
field nt 1MB o'clock.
Tho names of Maulbelsch, Sparks, Peach,
Borry and Hennlng wero on every lip. Will
Maulbctsch, tho "human bullet," be nble
to penetrate the Quakors' great Una? Will
Berry duplicate his wonderful perform
ances ngalnst State College and Dart
mouth? Theso questions wera heard every
where, nnd tho answer was not to be had
until ttft) shades of night were falling nnd
the thousands of ezcltcment-fcd rooters
scrambled for home,
Coach Folwell had his men up bright and
Fart. &,7,.-tWno3AJtah3&
walk before breakfast and then'otilet until
train time. Last night the men were given
a blackboard talk and then sent away to
bed at 10:15, with Instructions to either go
to sleep or to lis quietly Until sleep over
took them. Judging from their appearance
this morning, every man In tho squad spent
a restful night In tho arms of Morpheus.
Tlioro Is one man In the squad who had
tho buggest surprise or his life. As a mat
ter of fact, every ono of the Quaker ath
letes got a shock n moment before the
game had started, for Howard Berry began
tho game at fullback. Borry doeBn't know
It and neither do his teammates, but never
theless It Is 80.
When Folwell read oft the names of the
men who were to play Just before tho Penn
teapj took tho field, Berry's noma was not
mentioned. The lied nnd Blue gladiators
Continued on fate Thirteen, Column Four
WHY VARE IS CAUTIOUS
Conrtressmnn Declined Air Flight So
G. 0. P. Majority in Houso Would
Run No Risk of Reduction
Congressman William S. Vare saved his
life today. for the sake of his country.
He yearned to fly skyward in the aero
plane with Sergeant William C. Ocher, of
tha United States army, who dropped In on
us at the Philadelphia Navy Yard while
en route to Washington from New York.
The arrival of tha aviator stirred up all
kinds of rumors. The most persistent was
that a well-known Congressman would fly
with Sergeant Ocher to Washington. Among
those who Inspected tho aeroplane, as It lay
at the yard panting for a start, was Con
gressman Vare.
"Will you fly with the aviator?" he was
asked,
Mr. Vare looked annoyed. "I must think
of the future." he said; "tha Republican
membership of Congress Is so small now
that we need all we have. Then there are
lots of Improvements contemplated for the
navy yard here, so I think I'll stick around
and see what can be done. Furthermore, I
don't think my constituents would like the
Idea of my taking such a risk. It doesn't
sound well to say that a Congressman went
up In the air."
And Mr, Vare looked at terra firroa un
der htm with a very friendly attitude.
OPENS NEW STORE AND DIES
Old Chester Merchant, Churchman and
Prohibitionist Succumbs
CHESTER. Pa.. Nov. J. nichard R.
.Spencer, for sixteen years a Market street
merchant, died at his home, sj wen wimn
street, today. Ha had been III for months,
jle was fifty-eight years old.
Mr. Spencer, who came here as a boy
from New York, was head of the biggest
firm of stationers In Chester. He was an
active church worker and a prohibitionist,
running for several offices on that ticket.
His new 1 30,000 store was completed this
week and opened yesterday, His widow
and seven children survive; one son, John,
resides in West Philadelphia.
in This Issue of
CfcUICK
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
PENN t
MICHIGAN '
HARVARD (J O '
UROVVN 7 ' o.
PRINCETON o O
YALE ;. 0 v
CENTRAL HIGH..,.
NOR'EASTHIGH,.;
S.PHILA.HIGH....
W.PniLA.tIlClI,,.
KAISUR DECORATES YOUTHFUL AIRMAN
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 18. Knlser-WUlicltn 1ms bestowed tho
order I'oiir lo Morlto on Quatnv Lcffcru, nged nineteen, who hiyi
downed ulno English ncroplnncs, according to Berlin dispatches todny.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
l'h'st Boulu nice, a-yenr-olds nnd up, sclllnjr, 1 1-lti miles
Goodwood, 110, Ainbrotc, $0.80, ?U.80, ?3.70, won; Vulua, 110, Bob
luaon, $-1.10, !f0.80, second; Dob llcdflcld, 100, Koppfcmou, !f21.00,
third', .'l'liuc, 1.51.
PEACE MOVE BY NEUTRALS REPORTED NEAR
GENEVA, Nov. 18. A report wna current In semiofficial circles
todity thnt.sovornl ncutrnl European nations nre Ik touch with the
United States and thnt pcaco reports which have been circulated for
sumo time "may booh take definite shape." It-Is said thnt If tho
neutrals reach an understanding the belligerent powers will be askecT
to send delcgntcs to a peace parly. "
BUTTER JUMPS THREE AND ONE'HALF CENTS AT ELGIN
ELGIN, 111., Nov. 18. Butter jumped throo nnd one-hnlf cents
a pound on the Elgin Board of Trade today.
CANVASS GIVES MINNESOTA TO HUGHES BY 396
ST. PAUL, Minn., Nov. 18. Chnrlos E. Hughes carried Mlnnosotn by n plurality
of 396 over Presldont Wilson, tho complete canvass showed today. The voto was:
Hughes, 179.BD3; Wilson, 179,157.
U. S. AGENTS SEIZE CHICAGO STORAGE RECORDS .
CHICAGO, Nov. 18. Agents ofr-tho Federal Department of Justice swooped
clown upon tho offices of two of tho Inrgost cold Btorngo houses Ju Chicago todny,
selzod their books and records nnd carried them nway for examination by tho
United States District Attrney's office. Thtf- records will be examined for ovldenco
In tho Investigation Into tho high cost of food hero and later will bo taken boforo
tho Federal Grand Jury, which meots hero Monday and which nt onco will begin
an Inquiry Into food prices,
DEUTSCHLAND LIBELED IN $12,000 ACTION
NEW LONDON, Conn., Nov. 18. Tho Deutschltiml was today libeled by tho
T. A. Scott Company for $12,000 In an action brought by tho T. A. Scott Company,
Ino., ngalnst the underseas merchantman ns a result of the collision yesterday
mornlnc In which tho submarine rammed and sank the tug T. A. Scott, Jr., with
a loss of Captain John A. Gurney and four other members of her crow.
CONTRACTS FOR EIGHT DESTROYERS AWARDED
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18. Contracts for eight destroyers, authorized by the
last naval appropriation bill, toduy wero awarded to the Fall Illvcr Shipbuilding
Corporation, of Qulncy, Mass., and six to tho Union Iron Works Company, San
Francisco. This completes contracts for 18 of the -20 authorized, but it is undecided
whether tho other two shall bo built by contract or by a navy yard.
NEW NAVAL BILL TO CALL FOR $375,000,000
WASHINGTON, Nov. 18. Exceeding last year's total by more than $30,000,000,
the new naval appropriation bill to bo Introduced In Congress at the forthcoming
session will call for an oxpendlturo of 375,000,000, Chairman Padgett, of tho Houso
Naval Affairs Committee, stated today. Of this sum $275,000,000 will be dQVotetl to
new ships and to payments on contracts already existing nnd $100,000,000 for pur
poses of departmental administration.
PREPARING FOR ELECTION PROBE IN INDIANA
GARY, Ind., Nov. 18. Election records hero are In possession of Federal officials
today and seven saloonkeepers and a Gary lawyer are under summons to appear as
witnesses before. a Federal Grand Jury. Heads of large Gary Industries may be
subpenaed shortly also. Charges of intimidating saloonkeepers by threatening to
revoke their licenses, tampering with ballot boxes and other irregular practices
have been flying between political enemies here sli.ee November 7. Election docu
ments filling several trunks were taken to Indianapolis for safekeeping.
PRESIDENT WILSON WILL WITNESS ARMY-NAVY GAME
NEW YORK, Nov. 18. President Woodrow Wilson will attend the Army-Navy
game at tho Polo Grounds on Saturday, No.vember ?5. Boxes have ben reserved
oh both sides of the gridiron for the President and his party. He will witness the
first half of tho game from the Army side and the second half from the Navy side.
1000 WOMEN FAVOR TEACHING OF BIRTH CONTROL
NEW YORK, Nov. IS. The Women's City Club, with about 1000 present, In
the Park Avenue Hotel, adopted a resolution last night urging that the penal Jaw
be amended so as to permit licensed physicians to instruct their patients in methods
of birth control. An amendment offered by William Sanger, husband of Margaret
Sanger, that the same privilege be extended to trained nurses was voted down.
the Evening Ledger : DO NOT MISS IT
I
NEWS
WATER SUPPLY
NEARSNORMAL
AFTER BREAK
20,000 Become Idlo
When Big Factories
Shut Down
SHORTAGE AFFECTS
500,000 RESIDENTS
Btovout "Cut Around" and w.
Pressure Gradually
Restored
NOT IN DANGER OF'FIRE
Pipe Brenka at Whentshenf Lane
nnd Jasper Street Many
Institutions Suffer
A score of more of mills emolorlnr 10.0CI
men and women were forced to shut down.
and virtually all of that section of Phila
delphia, east of Broad street from FrankforA
Junction to League Island, was out oft from
Its water supply today by the bursting of
a forty-elght-lnoh water main at Whes.U
sheaf lane nnd Jasper street,
Chief Davis, of the Wnter Bureau, an
nounce! at noon todny that his men had
succeeded In "cutting around the break
In both directions," nnd that tho pressure
was gradually approaching normal.
"With most ait of the factories shutting
down nt noon, I expect that tho pressure
wilt roach nonnnl this aftarnoon. Wo win
not be nblo to repalp the broken main be
fore tomorrow morning,"
MANHOLES BLOWN OUT
The presenoe of returning pressure wag
demonstrated In an emphatlo mannor on
Broad street when manholes at Broad and
Wallace streets, Broad nnd Hamilton and
Broad and Wood streets, shot ten feet 'into
to nlr. Water poured from the openings
nnd gushed Into the gutters. Another
break was fearod and men were rushed
from tho ofilco of the Water Bureau to In
vestigate tho cause of the manhole blow
outs. It la estimated that more than 500,008
persons were affected by one of the most
disastrous vyater-maln breaks in the history .
of the Water Bureau.
The section cut oft from Its supply was
not In danger from fire, as tna city high
pressure system covered the territory,
""The water'famlno struck; Tiard In" (SoiS"
sands of homes. In factories, department
stores and hotels east of Broad street.
Thousands went "coffecless"- to their work,
nnd other thousands left their homes with
out going through their usual morning ablu
tions that of upplylng "gentle" soap and
water to their rnoes nd hands. Everybody
In the waterless area felt etlck-eytd and
grumpy. The value of that cheap com
modity known as water was never so forc
ibly Impressed updn so great a. number of
persons In Philadelphia.
HOSPITALS SUFFEU
In hospitals east of Broad street real
suffering was caused by the cut-oil. There
was no water for tho dressing of wounds,
and fever patients suffered from thirst.
There were near-panics In the culinary
departments of hotels east of Broad street
when It was discovered that the water
spigots were on strike. Cooks and waiters
wero dismayed. Ouests cnuld not sea any
reason why they should forgo their coffee
and postpone their morning toilets because
a wator muln had gone out of business.
The great Industrial district of Ken
sington was paralyzed by the break. Many
mills shut down and thousands of mem
and women were Idle.
CAST-IRON PIPE CrtACKED
The break occurred In a twejve-foot sec
tion of water main. The forty-elght-lnoh
cant-Iron pipe of this section was cracked
down through the middle like an eggshell.
This main carried water to the city from
the Lardner's Point Pumping Station.
The Frankford Creek Intercepting sewer
Is under construction alongside the water
main, and Chief Davis has the theory that
th) sewer operation was responsible for
the break. The earth from the sewer ex
cavation was thrown on the ground cover
ing the main, making a total depth of about
fourteen feet of earth on top of the cast
iron pipe. Chief Davis says that ha be
lieves that the earth pressure caused the
pipe to burst.
The main burst at about Um., shooting
a geyser of water twenty feet Into the air,
Continued en Paf a Tna. Column Sir
CIIILDREN NARIIOWLY ESCAPE
' '" f 'I IMSJ
Five Ltttlo Ones Rescued From Flr
by Father While Houso
Is Dry
The break In the main might have result-'
ed fatally for the five young children 'of
Harry Lubln, wallpaper manufacturer, of
1617 Qermantown avenue. They were
asleep on the third floor of their home this
morning when names from a stove ignited
the woodwork.
The children, Tillie, nine years old San-
uel, eight years Ql? Wurrls, four years oldj
Alexander, three years old, ahd Isadora, ..
eight months old, slept oa peacefully while ,
a passer-by noticed the smoke and rushed.
Into the house. Lubln hhnself succeeded In
getting tha children safely to tha house cf .
a neighbor, but was-burned in so doing-.
It required the powerfy! chemicals eti
an engine to extinguish the blast, "xilsj-.--water
was turned, oa:e9rt thn afUr th
fire was checked. ' -
Nl
. mat
l -1
I
-lMBS-'- ' . d
9111
9gH
