> "
Fair tonigrht and tomorrow; little 1| "Ban/fT "From Pre*M to Home 1
chunK?? temperature: lower tempera- MM A .-A A f* ^ ^ . Ij ITf U ???????
tie to moderate winds.
degrees, gen- M *W 1 I 1% 9 If fx ^ 1^ T \ j fi^Vj Within the Hour"
Temperature fur hours A 1/ A AJmA
; 114 V AilvlUUJU i?ltlA 11
?- I y I ^ j / 1worn Met Clrcalatloa. Mratk of Oetoker,
1919, Dally Aeerate, 7?,991j Saatfay. M.071.
No. 25>.5CHi. 1 WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 18, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. * ONE CENT.
MARCH 4 PROGRAM
STILUS HELD UP
Washington Residents Disappointed
at Failure to Name j
Inaugural Chairman.
NO LIGHT FROM McCORMICK
I
Disappointment was expressed among
Ieadintr democrats and local business
men eenerally today when it became
known that, though the democratic na- 1
tional committee chairman, Vance McCormick.
and the vice chairman. Homer j'
S. Cumming?. had been in conference j'
for nearly four hours with President !
Wilson yesterday, the inaugural chair- j
? ? - .11 I 1
man nad not oeen sneeieu. .mi asm- jington,
and thousands throughout the 1
country who are planning: to attend,'
the inaugural celebration, are anxious j1
to have the chairman's name made \ 1
public and a detinite stand taken as to *
whether or not there will be an inaugural
ball. '
Mr. McCormick, when leaving Wash- ; '
ington yesterday afternoon, said he j '<
could give no information at this time i '
as to wh- n the inaugural chairman will !
be named. Until this formality is gone 1 '
througn the p.ans for tne inaugural ! J
celebration must be held up. Mr. Mc- J
Cormick said that he could not teil
when he will return to Washington,
probably not before the middle of the
week, as he has a lot of business to
transact at the campaign headquarters
in New York. J
Harper Alone Is Boomed. {
The belief among local democrats c
continues to be that Robert N. Harper j >
will be the only man recommended to j i
the President by the national chairman 3
and the local national committeeman. ; J;
John F. Costello. These recommenda- i
tions usually have determined who will | 1
be chairman. It was reported toda> i 1
that the American Federation of Labor j t
stands ready to give all the support it ; c
can to bring about the appointment of J <
Mr. Harper, but the latter has refused j r
to make any campaign for the position, 1
although he has stated that if it was i
offered t'? him he would appreciate the r
honor. j <
Bankers and other prominent men of j i
Washington, who. through voluntary ' <
contributions will be the ones to de- <
fray the inaugural expenses through a ]
guarantee fund, are already making
tentative pledges, but these cannot be <
announced until it is known definitely c
who will be in charge of the plans for
the celebration.
Couftt on Inaugura'l Ball.
While democratic leaders continue j j
firm in the belief that there should be !
an inaugural ball, and express con vie- j
tion that President Wilson will allow . ^
himself to be persuaded to sanction j
one, it became known today that in T
the event the ball is not held some1 f
other social event will be planned for ! |
the entertainment of the more than (
150.000 visitors expected in Washing- - ;
ton for the occasion.
Reports continue to reach Washington i f
from tire west that tne woman voters are t
planning for a denionstrat.on in the capi- *
tal in recognition of the vve. t having;
superseded the so th as a "solid" factor ' *
in residential elections and in particular j 2
to fete the arrival ?<f a wom..n in Con- 1
gress. S iff rage leaders here today said: 2
"Of course, there will be a big celebration
by the woman \oter during the inaugural j festivities,
but we have been too busy ;
planning for our new drive on this Congress.
which is democratic, in favor of <
the national amendment to enfranchise;
women to start arranging anything deft- ,
nite regarding the part we will take in
the March celebration."
y c
CO-REGENT FOR THRONE x r,
OF AUSTRIA-HUNGARY
IJERLIN, November IT, via Eon don. ^
November 18.?According to the Vos
. .. ?v..vu?e un uiivuiiiiiiucu uia|iaicn
irora Vtpnna says that Emperor Francis
Joseph of Austria-Hungary will is- ^
sue December 2. the occasion of the *
sixty-eighth anniversary of the beginning
of his reign, a proclamation making
Archduke ?'harles Francis Joseph.
k> ir apparent to the throne, co-regent. ^
Archduke Charles Franc::- Joseph. who t
j.-, a grandnephev. of the emperor, be- f
?.ame heir to the throne of Austria- t
Hungar> by the assassination of Arch- j(
duke Fraii'-i ^Ferdinand previous to the ^ (
outbreak of the war. Tin Archduke I .
'harles has had commands on the east-! .
ern front, especially in Gali'da and in j 4
the Italian theater. At present he is In ,2
Command of the combined German and I
Austro-Hungarian forces in the Car- (
uathians arid along the Transylvanian j
frontier. j i
Milk Price Advance General. j \
_NIiIK i> .? es by producers have t"
advanced ir. almost every state within),
the past y r, ? the Department of ?,
Agriculture The advance averages 1.1 |
e111s, or } p-.-r nt higher during the <j
year, with . n advanc e n some statesij
of .*? cents a gallon, in Maryland the j 1
price remaining the same <20 cents per'
gallon) 191." and 1916; in Virginia J]
the priv. advanced from 2'_ to 23 cents I
a gallon. and iTx West Virginia the price 1 <
Jt'ivani d frmn 2?, to 25 cents. In Ver- '
inont th** price decreased from 16 cents
in 1915 to 1 r. cents during 1916.
Gieat Drivers in Grand Prize Race.
SANTA MDXK'A. r-.il. November IS.? I
TweiHy-thrvt driver* w.-r> entered totbt>
to si;.ri the seventh annual i
grand prize ri?? -ev h* r?-. They included i
the same drivers who started In the
Yandcrbilt ? up race Thursday, with i,
four addition*. Today's race will he : ,
403.248 miles requiring forty-eight !
laps over The fc.4Ql-miie course on i !
wh:<"~h the YandcrbiJt cup race was run
Thursday l>ario K?sta, winner of i
Thursday's race, would win the Auto- I .
mobile Association of America's title of I
"champion driver of America" should
he w?n today's contest. Kesta now has
4.100 points toward the title, and the
$13,50o prize. The only man who is
in a position to overcome this lead is
Johnny Ait ken, who has 3,440 points.
Should Aitken win today the title
would be settled at the Ascot speedway,
L.os Angeles, Thanksgiving day.
This event carries 800 points for the i
winner. ,
Austria to Educate foreign Public.
VIENNA, November 16, via London.
November 18 delayed).?The AustroHungarian
government now is establishing
a press department in the foreign
office for the purpose of educating for^
elgn public opinion regarding conditions
r in tho dual monarchy.
en PROGRESS
FURTHER! ANCRE
Advances M^de Northeast of
Beaumont-Hamel and
Near Beaucourt.
?
t
SEVERAL BATTLES IN AIR
I
By the Associated Press.
LONDON. November 18.?Renewing
their attacks near the Ancre river on
the French front the British last night j
made further gains, it is announced
officially. Advances were made northpast
of Beaumont-Hamel and north of |
Beaucourt.
A strong German detachment attempted
last night to reach one of the
French trenches at Biaches on the
5omm? front. The French war office
mnounced today that the attackers
were repulsed. In yesterday's fighting
5ix German airplanes were shot down, j
French troops made a strong attack j
ast evening on the Somme front near
Sailly-Saillisel. The Berlin war office
mnounces that the assault broke down
jnder the German fire.
Freezing weather has replaced the tumid
rainy season along the whole
vestern fight.ng area. Temperatures
ire from 5 to 12 degrees below freezng
Fahrenheit.
French Aeros in Battles.
Describing aerial activities the ;
French official statement says:
"During the day of November 16 all
'rench airplane having on board Sec- f
>nd Lieut. Loste as pilot and Sergt. j (
"italic ot thn marhlnp trim hmilCht ! i
lown on the Somme front a German f
lirplane. This is the fifth enemy mahine
vanquished up to the present
by these aviators.
"During the day of November 17 a total
of six German airplanes were
wrought down by French pilots. One
nachine fell in flames near Hallu. An>ther
was destroyed by Adjutant Taraston.
making the total number of this
nan's air victories eight. This machine
ell mar Manancourt. Two other Gernan
airplanes were brought down
lorth of Fouquescourt and southwest
>f Vouzieres. A spirited engagement j
preceded this success. The fifth ma- '
shine suffered a broken wing and j
crashed to the earth in the region of!
Harvaux. The sixth airplane of the j
snemy was attacked by one of our ma- 1
hines and fell in flames in the region
>f Ville-en-Haye."
Allied Losses 600,000, Is Claim.
BERLIN. November IS.?Concerning
he recent flghtifig in France, the miliary
critic of the Overseas News Agen:y
says:
"The attack on the Ancore and near
^ressoire prove that the entente has
lesisted definitely from the original |
ilan to break through the German I
rout on the Peronne-Bapaume sector.
k tQfi hoovv 1 nd Klnni)v di vo /.f
>attle. which caused more than 600,000
asualties to the Anglo-French, they
tre not vet masters of this small secor
on the Somme. Moreover, they ax e
compelled to make secure the flanks of
heir advanced position, whose most r
ialient points are near Gueudecourt and f
Sailly-Saillisel, and which were chained
with enormous waste of material ! r
xnd men after four months and a half, I ^
>efore considering a plan for a further i
tdvance." t
rALCOTT PLAYS FULLER !!
IN ELECTION CUP FINALS;!
| 1
As a result of the semi-finals in the j
ompetltion for the election cup this ' j
norning over the Chevy Chase course. ; <
ishmead Fuller will oppose F M. Tal- I 1
ott in the finals this afternoon. Tal- ; ]
ott defeated A. A. Mcllhenny on the ; i
asr green this morning, after having , i
?een 4 up at the turn. Fuller won from . <
V. B. ^lason, 4 up and 3 to play. i t
WILL SEE PRESIDENT WILSON. |
Secretary Lane Seeks Instructions on
IT. S.-Mexican Controversy.
ATLANTIC CITY. N". J., November 18. ;
?Secretary Lane of the Interior De- 1
>artment. chairman of the Mexican- ! '
American Joint commission, left today 1
or Washington, where he expects to 1
onfer with President Wilson ;ts to ' 4
L . r..,.. ... V.O 4 1. r. I
ii?; IUIUIC wuibc i'? ut- in iur .
onferences being held for the purpose J 1
>f settling Mexican border troubles. It i
s expected there will be present at . '
he conference Secretary of War Baker j 1
tnd Secretary of the Navy Daniels.
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexi- j
an commission, was in Philadelphia >
ast night and expects to go to New , i
fork today.
No engagement has been made at the ?
Ahite House for a conference between
Secretary Line and President Wilson to- , ,
lay and Secretaries Baker and Daniels | i
vere out of the city today. The Presi- J
lent may see Mr. Lane tonight.
It is expected that Secretary Lane i* ;
-otiiing to report the status of the riego- !
tations to ('resident Wilson fully and j
>ersonallv before they go further. There
iave been reports of a deadlock.
SONORED BY KING FERDINAND.
Count and Countess Tarnowski Are '
Presented With Orders. \
HKRLIN. November IS. via London. <
November 18.?Count Adam Tarnowski j
von Tarnow. the new ambassador of <
\ustria-Hungary to the United States, s
a ho, uritll his appointment to this post,
was Austrian minister to Bulgaria, j
a ill leave Sofia for Vienna Sunday next. <
King Ferdinand has honored both ?
'ount and Countess Tarnowski before 1
their departure by calling at the Austro-Hungarian
embassy and personally
presenting the count with the Alexander
order, with swords, and the counties
with the Bulgarian order of merit.
King Ferdinand voiced his sincerest
thanks to the countess for her devotion
to relief work during the Balkan
war and the present European contest. 1
Selecting Site for Aviation School.
NEWPORT NEWS, Va.. November 18.
?Secretary Daniels of the Navy arrived
in Hampton reads this morning
on the naval yacht Sylph. The entire
personnel of the committee which has
In charge the selection of a site for the
government aviation school came in a
little later on the steamfer fronf Washington.
Secretary Baker of the War
Department is expected on the train.
The visitors will a end the dav sightseeing
in this vicinity, and incidentally
will look over severap available sites
for the government flying school.
???
ALLIESAREDRAWING
NEARER MONASTIF
Serbs, French and Russians
Snnrp Furthpr Snrnpssps nn
Macedonian Front.
BERLIN REPORTS CHECK
By the Associated Press.
LONDON. November 18.?The entent*
campaign for Monastir continues t<
show progress. The Serbians hav<
scored further advances in their flank
ing movement in the bend of the Cerni
river east of the Macedonian capital
while the French are pushing in close)
south of the city, according to Paris.
The flanking operation of the Ser
bians has brought them to a point or
the heights northwest of Iven. du<
east of Monastir. On the south th<
French are in the outskirts of Kanena
five miles from Monastir.'
Serbs Seize Trenches.
On the Macedonian front east of the
River Cerna yesterday the Serbians
captured 800 yards of trenches, the
French war office announces. They alsc
stormed hill 1212 In the Cerna bend
The French made progress in the direction
of Monastir, reaching the outskirts
of Kanena.
"Franco-Russian troops advancing on
Monastir have occupied the villages ol
I'elushina. Porodin and Jabyani.
"The prisoners the Serbians alone
lave captured since November 10 tg<regate
3,000. including 1,000 Germans.
During the same period the Serbians
captured eight heavy and sixteen field
juns. We have captured since Sep;ember
14 a total of seventy-one guns."
Berlin Reports Check.
That all is not well, however, with
he cause of the allies is indicated by
oday's Berlin report, which says atacks
of entente forces on the plains
south of Monastir, on the Macedonian
ront, were def ;ated yesterday with
leavy losses. A height position near
N.egel, captured by the Serbians on
November 15, was retaken by German
roops, Berlin claims.
On the left bank of the Struma river
British troops repulsed a violent
:ounter attack delivered by Bulgarians
ipon Barakli.
Reoccupation by the British of Proenik,
on the eastern end of the MaceIonian
front, seven miles south of
Demir-His.sar. and of the adjoining vilage
of Kumli is announced by the
British war bffice. The positions are
o\v being consolidated, counter atacks
by the enemy being stopped sucessfuliy
by artillery fire. The British
aptured thirty-one prisoners and one
nachine gun, besides inflicting heavy
osses.
Rumanians Are Gaining
at One Point, But Fall
Back in Other Regions
PARIS, November 18.?The Rumania
.s iave made considerable progress
>n the Transylvanian front in the
egion of Dragoslavele, the Rumanian
var office announces.
Efforts of the Rumanians to hurl back
:he German troops northeast of Camjulung
were defeated yesterday, the
Serlin war office announces, with heavy
losses to the attackers. The Germans
md Austrians claim further gains In
he Alt and Jiul valleys.
"The Rumanian retirement some kiloneters
souih of Tirgujiulij." says a
hteuter dispatch from Bucharest, "is
lue to the continual reinforcement of
:he enemy, and. above all, to the superiority
of the enemy artillery. On
:he left bank of the Alt the enemy tried
l>y crossing a mountain range to join
lands with the forces operating on the
Jampulung side, where the German atacks
were bloodily repulsed."
PRESIDENT BREAKS RULE
TO GREET LABOR MEN
President Wilson today broke a heretofore
ironclad rule against receiving Vvisi:ors
on Saturday by making an appointment
to shake hands with numerous delefates
to the annual convention of the
American Federation of I^al?or, which has
jeen in session at Baltimore, this afternoon
at 0 o'clock. During his nearly four
fears in the White House the President
ilways has refused to see delegates or
i-isitors on Saturday, that being his holi
lay.
Early this morning the President went
golfing witn Mrs. Wilson, returning to
the White House about noon.
This afternoon President and Mrs. Wil*on
went to the cavalry drill at Fort
Myer, reaching there in time for the beginning
of the driii at 2:30 o'clock. They
returned in time for the reception to th*
labor delegates.
$2C0 MORE FOR U. S. CLERKS.
A. F. of L. Adopts Resolution Urging
Horizontal Salary Increase.
BALTIMORE, Mil., November 18.?
rhe convention of the American Federation
of Labor today adopted a resolution
instructing its president and
sxecutive council to endeavor to have
Congress enact a law granting to all
government employes in the classified
;lvil service a horizontal increase of
salaries of at least $200 a year.
The resolution declared that "it is
iow almost impossible for a classified
ivil service employe to support himself
and family on the wages paid by
[he United Statps."
Libel Filed Against Deutschland.
NEW HAVEN, Conn.. November 18.?
Papers in a libel action to recover for
the loss of the tug Thomas A. Scott. Jr.,
against the German undersea merchantman
Deutschland, were filed In the
the United States district court here today
by Foye H. Murphy, attorney for
the T. A. Scott Co., Inc., of New London,
owners of the tug, the value of
which is given as 112,000.
Conservation of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for to*
day's newspaper save it for the
schoal ehlldrtn'a playground fund,
: l i
I
\
>
CONTRACTS AWARDED !
FOR 14 TORPEDO BOATSj
Fore ^iver Shipbuilding Company i
Will Construct Eight and the
Union Iron Works Six.
Awards for the construction of four|
teen of the torpedo boat destroyers au
thorized by the last naval appropriation
bill were announced by the Navy
Department today. The Fore River
Shipbuilding Corporation, Quincy,
Mass.. will construct eight and the
Union Iron Works Company, San Francisco,
six.
A contract for four vessels of this
type previously was awarded to the
Bath Iron Works, Bath, Me.
Contracts Let for Eighteen.
Contracts now have been let for j
eighteen of the twenty vessels author- j
ized. The department is undecided j
i whether the remaining two ships will i
be built by contract or at a navy yard, j
j The minimum price for the construe- I
; tion of the destroyers is fixed at $1,- J
200.000 each. They will have a dis|
placement of 1,185 tons, will be 310 feet
I In length, have thirty-five knots speed
j and will carry a battery of four four!
inch guns, two anti-aircraft guns and
j four triple torpedo tubes.
Improvements in View
for Two Navy Yards
'! As the result of the decision to award
' I contracts for four battleships and six:
teen destroyers to private builders, the
1J Navy Department probably will spend
the $0,000,000 available for Improvement
of government plants on the navy
' yards at Philadelphia and Norfolk.
No final decision has been reached,
but officials say the indications are the
money will be divided about equally be
tween the two places. The appropria?
tion places the expenditure entirely
within the discretion of the Secretary.
DISTRICT SUES TROLLEY
COMPANY FOR $20,000
The District of Columbia, today filed
suit in the District Supreme Court to;
recover $20,000 damages from the!
Washington and Old Dominion Rail-j
way Company for refusal to issue and
. accept transfers to and from the Capital
Traction Company at the Aqueduct
bridge. The public utilities act
provides a penalty of $200 for each day
on which a violation of its provisions
by a public service corporation con[
tlnues. The District authorities allege
' that the refusal of the company has
continued for 100 days from August 9,
1916, to date.
The court is advised that such reciprocal
arrangement for transfers obtained
from March 4, 1913, until last
August, when, it is alleged, without
the authority of the public utilities
commission, the defendant company j
changed its schedule of rates and exacted
a 5-cent fare or ticket for pas
' sage across the bridge. The company!
also refused to issue transfers, it is \
n 1 UitoH
Corporation Counsel Syme appears
for the District of Columbia.
To Hold Hearings on Jurisdiction.
For the purpose of determining the
question of its jurisdiction in the light
of citizens along the line of the Old
r Dominion railroad to force that road
to exchange transfers with the Capital
Traction Company at 36th and M streets
northwest, the interstate commerce
commission has decided to listen to
oral arguments. The arguments are to j
be confined wholly to the matter of the j
commission's Jurisdiction. While the.
date for the argument has not been i
set, both parties may file opening
briefs by December 16 and reply briefs >
by Jaauafy 1*
/
FOREGOESPROBE
OF HIGH PRICES
Federal Trade Commission
Leaves Investigation to Department
of Justice.
i
WOULD AVOID DUPLICATE
i
The federal trade commission an-'
nounced today that it will not under-,'
take an investigation of the high
prices of necessaries of life, because
it largely would be a duplication of
the work of the Department of Justice
under the Sherman anti-trust law. The j
commission made this announcement:
"The federal trade commission has'
received numerous suggestions that it,
make a general investigation concern- ;
ing high prices of the necessaries of
life. It recognizes the far-reaching
effects of the.se prices on the standards
of living in the United States, and it
believes every effort should be made
to prevent the exploitation of consumers.
Left to Justice Department.
lliauidl ao uitoc iii?" 1-if ivco liiciv ue
due to the existence of unlawful combinations
among: dealers, such a situation
would be in the purview of the
Sherman anti-trust act. The Department
of Justice, which is primarily
charged with the enforcement of that
statute, has already instituted a searching
investigation throughout the country
by means of United States attor- .
neys, and in view of this fact a similar |
investigation by the commission would j
be an unnecessary duplication of work. !
"Moreover, at the direction of Congress,
the commission is now investigating
other matters that tax its force
to the utmo?,t and with its limited appropriation
it could not undertake additional
work at this time. \
Not Advisable at This Time.
"In view of these facts the commission
does not deem it advisable at present to
undertake an investigation into high
prices in general." ^ j
The federal district attorneys meantime .
are working under general instructions to :
thoroughly examine witnesses and docu- j
ments in all cases where there appears to j
them ground for suspicion of combina- j
tions or agreements or other concerted j
action with a - view to advancing prices
of food and other articles handled in interstate
trade.
PRESIDENT IS TO PUSH
HIS RAILROAD PROGRAM |
!
First actual steps toward carrying I
out the remainder of President Wilson's
railroad legislation program, to compel .
investigation of labor disputes before :
strikes can be called, will be taken
Monday, when the President confers ,
with Representative Adamson, chair- {
man of the House commerce committee
and author of the eight-hour railroad '
law. Officials said today that the Amer
lean Federation of .Labor's declaration
against President's plan would not de- ,
ter hira. j
Bank Messenger Held for Theft. |
BOSTON, November 18.?Word was
received here today of the arrest, at '
Miami, Fla.. of Edward Therek, on a 1
charge of having stolen several thou- !
sand dollars' worth of cash and securities
from the Calumet National Bank
of this city. Therek, who had been .
employed as a messenger of the bank,
disappeared several weeks ago. The
loss was discovered simultaneously,
and a bonding company reimbursed the
bank to the extent of $20,000. It is
understood that a large proportion of
the stolen negotiable papers were re- ,
covered In Miami.
iUIIIARAMniTQKill All
i fiLLn unnunu imll hll
1 FOREIGNERS IN PARRAL
Americans, Germans, Chinese,
French and Hebrews Among
Those R./.orted Slain.
EL PASO, Tex., November IS.?From
a Chinese refugee from Parral, United
States government agents here today
received a report that all of the foreigners
remaining in Parral, exclusive
of the five known to have left for Culican
and thought to have arrived there,
had been killed by the Villa bandits.
The Chinese refugee said those killed
included the American, German, Chinese,
Hebrew. French and Arab residents
of the mining camp. He also said ;
a brother-in-law of Theodore Hoemul- |
ler at Jiminez had received eonfirma- |
tion of the killing of Hoemuller, a Ger- |
man subject, and his family in Parral. I
The Chinese refugee added that the I
general belief in Jiminez was that Ed- j
gar Kock, German consular agent in
Parral, had been killed at Santa Rosalia.
I
| TOMORROW
-KISS JEANF.TTS RANKIN AMERICA'S
FIRST CONORESSWOMAN."
IS AS PO-ULAR IN A BALLROOM
AS AT A BIO POLITICAL MEET- : ,
ING"?An interesting: account of i
the personality and career of "the j :
lady from Montana."
"WHEN IS A MAN TOO OLJ!"?An
article well worth reading, by OLIN ; '
L. LYMAN. | j
! ' FOR BETTER AND CHEAPER MARKETS"?What
the Department of
Agriculture is doing to reduce the j J
cor.t of faodstuifs to the woman ! ;
buyer.
| ' PEP." a fascinating story, by GRACE
1 SARTWELL MASON.
! "UNCLE SAMS DEMONSTRATION
CARS"?Using the railroads to teach
the nation the results of government
research work and practical investigations.
j "PASSING THE JOKE BUCK." a
TORCHY story, by SEWELL FORD.
! "PAN-AMERICAN BUILDING AS 'CAP- ,
ITOL OF THE AMERICAS' "?The
boardroom there is a combined !
Senate and House of Representatives ?
for the western world. ,
"HOW CAN THAT GASOLINE BILL
BE REDUCED?" by ERNEST A.
STEPHENS.
' xnana u. UAHi-twitK w-Kilts Ui
TRAVEL AND TRAFFIC ON THE
MIGHTY YUKON. FROM THE
RAMI ARTS TO BERING SEA."
! "POLISH KINGDOM S NEED OF INDUSTRIAL
INDEPENDENCE." by
CHARLES M. PEPPER.
"MAKING THE PERISCOPE INVISIBLE."
"AN APPEAL FOR A WASHINGTON
WARD IN A PARIS WAR HOS- j |
PITAL," by STERLING HEILIG. | j
"WHAT ARE THE NINE!" by BRUCE
BARTON.
"THE TENDENCY TOWARD LONGER I ;
SKIRTS AND FULL COATS," by
ANNE RITTENHOUSE.
"THE RAMBLER WRITES OF THE !
WORK OF RICHARD BLAND
LEE."
"THE TRIFLERS." another installment
of this interesting serial, by FREDERICK
ORIN BARTLETT.
"THE MAN IN THE MIRROR?AND
YOU," and "THE SONS OF ALADDIN,"
and THE ROAD THAT
, NEVER WIDENS." and "O.
HENRY," by HERBERT KAUFMAN.
rw TSTT*
| SUNDAY STAR
t
- -'
-
SEMI-CENTENNIAL :
CELEBRATION HELD
|
Founding of National Grange;
of Patrons of Husbandry
Is Observed.
HISTORY OF BODY GIVEN
The semi-centennial celebration of
the founding of the National Grange of
Patrons of Husbandry was held this'
afternoon at the Raleigh Hotel, where
the grangers are holding a ten-day
convention, to adjourn next Friday.
Prof. T. C. Atkeson, master of the
West Virginia Grange, and one of the '
oldest members of the farmers' frator- <
nal body, outlined the history of the j
organization since its founding in this i
city.
The ballroom, where the national
body is meeting, was crowded to ca
I pacny ny me aeicgdit-a - ,
Most of the members attending: the.
celebration will leave for their homes ,
In various states beginning tomorrow,
so that when the business sessions of
the grange resume Monday morning
there will be a working body of delegates
and only a fe.w non-voting members
left.
The Priests of Demeter held a ses- I
sion this morning at the Raleigh, exemplifying
the esoteric work of the
order, the great iron-bound book being
re.ad by the high priest.
Tomorow afternoon there will be a
memorial service.
Kansas College Alumni Entertain
Members of the alumni society of the
Kansas State Agricultural College en- !
tertained at luncheon at the Ebbitt i
House yesterday in honor of President '
I Henry Jackson Waters. W. M. Jardine,
dean of agriculture of the college, and i
A. A. Potter, dean of engineering, were
aiso guests. About thirty of the
alumni were present. H N. Vinall
acted as toastmaster. President Waters
spoke of the progress made at the Kansas
College and mentioned some of the
: new features that have been introduced
in agricultural education. Dean Jardine
told of the strong appeal this col.
lege is making to the farmers of that
j state by means of these new ami imi
proved methods of investigation and
extension work.
PLAN TO STANDARDIZE I
NEW FARM PROJECTS
i
Subject Discussed at Final Meeting
of Associated Agricultural
Educators.
The initiation of ^rejects suitable for
the county by t: e c unty or . anlzation
thro gh its a ent. to ether ith the
J standardization of th s p o.'ects, eith r i
for state or counties, was ad ocat d by |
R. K. Bliss director of agruultrali
extension for the Io~ a State Colle-e. I
at the meeting y st rd y aft moon of
the e t nsi n secti n of the con-e. tun
of the Associati n of American Ae icui!
tu al Cc41eges and Experi n. nt Stations.
The meetings of the extens on a. d engin
ering sections yesterday aft.r oon
I ended toe activities of the cjnvention,
the tinal gen ral session having be n
adjourned at noon.
Director Bliss v as re-elected chair- '
man of the e trnsio 1 woik s cti n; C. ;
R. Titlow of W st Virginia was chos n j
secretary, v, niie C. B. Smit.. of ti.ts c ty '
lepiaces Bradf^id Knap >. also of Washington,
as the reco.din^ secretary.
Other Officers Elected.
R. S. Shaw of Michigan, dean of agriculture
in the A.ichigan Ag.icultu al
College, was re-tlect?.d c.iai man of the
experiment station vvoi k section; \\ il- j
iiarn Jardine of Kansas was elect d
secretary, while YV. II. Beal of tuis city >
\.as r.-elected recording s-creiar/. {
The section of college work and ad- |
ministration chose C. C. French of Ala- {
bama as chairman and A. F. Woods of ;
Annnesota as its secretary.
Conservation of the natural resources
of the country is the chief purpose of
the land grant institutions, according
to President Pearson of the Jowa State
College, who spoke at a luncheon given !
by the Washington Chapter of the
Alumni of Iowa State College at the
Raleigh Hotel yesterday. Prof. Austen.
clean of engineering, and Miss McKay,
dean of women, were other guests
of honor. Other out-of-town guests included
R. K. Bliss, director of extension.
and O. G. Lloyd, assistant chief
farm management of Ames, Iowa;
Prof. G. W. Hissell, dean of engineering.
Michigan Agricultural College; Prof.
Herbert Osborn. Ohio State University;
P. II. Rolfs, dean and director. University
of Florida; E. L. Morris. Kansas
City, Mo.; J. T. Caine, extension director,
Utah Agricultural College; E. ] .
Christie, chief of extension. Purdue '
University. J
Kansas Candidates' Expense Bills.
TOPEKA, Kan., November 18.?Candidates
who met defeat In the general election
in Kansas November 7 generally ?
spent more money in their campaigns
than the successful ones, it was shown
today by expense accounts filed with the
secretary of state. The largest amount I
spent was $429, reported by Gov. Arthur
Capper, who was re-elected. W. S. Lansdon,
the democratic candidate for gov- (
ernor. spent $130.25 in his unsuccessfu. !
campaign. None of the candidates exceeded
the 10 per cent of the iirst year's
salary of the oflice sought, as required
by law. The lowest expense was $1,
which G. P. Neiman, democratic candidate
for state treasurer, said he invested
in stamps. "
Plant to Build Dirigible Needed.
Agents of the Navy Department are
seeking a plant for building a naval
dirigible balloon, plans for which have
been completed. The special advisory*
board on aeronautics, of which Charles
D. Walcott of the Smithsonian Institution
is chairman, is now making an
investigation of the manufacturing1
facilities in the United States.
Hanking Mormon Apostle Dead.
S*LT L-AKK, Utah, November 18.?
Francis M. Lyman, president of the
j'lorum of the t welve apostles of the
Mormon Church, died early today from
pneumonia. He had been ill only two j
days. Mr. Lyman was the next in line t
of succession for the president of the J
Mormon Church, and would have become
president had he outlived President
Joseph F. Smith. He wa^aeventy* 1
is years old. S 1?
HOPES TO PREVENT
RAILWAY STRIKES
National Council, Chamber of
Commerce of U .S., Seeks
Referendum.
GUIDE FOR CONGRESS
The National Council of the Chamber
of Commerce of the United States, representing
Important business men from
all over the country, which has been in
session at the New Willard Hotel for
two days, today asked the board of directors
of the national chamber to obtain
the sentiment of the business iu
terests of the country on how best to
prevent a recurrence of the threatened
railway strike trouble and how best to
make certain that the transportation
facilities of the country may be
strengthened and extended.
In acordance with this request the
national chamber will at once proceed
to obtain the views'of its membership,
consisting of 800 commercial and trade
organizations which represent 350,000
firms, corporations and individuals.
The information will be gathered by
means of a referendum, answers to
whieh are expected to be received within
forty-five days, so that the opinions
ox me ousiness men or tne country may
be laid before Congress in connection
with railroad legislation which will be
under consideration this winter.
Would Prevent Interruption,
The language of the national council,
according to the resolution adopted
today, asks that the referendum shall obtain
information respecting legislation
designed "to prevent interruption to
transportation service, pending the settlement
of disputes between employers
and employes of transportation lines,
and to avoid any recurrence of the situation
created by the recently threatened
railway strike, which situation
the President of the United States declared
in a statement, made public August
is, HUH. 'must never be allowed to
arise again.' "
me language of the resolution further
provides that information shall
be obtained respecting legislation designed
"to make certain that the transportation
facilities of the country may
be stabilized, improved and extended
to meet arid keep pace with the needs
of commerce and the entire public."
Tne convention of the national counselors
adjourned this afternoon, after
also taking up certain technical alterations
in the . ules governing the National
Chamber, such as by-laws, etc.
A number of the councilors, however,
are to remain in YVasmngton tor a
while, to be present at the opening of
the railroad inquiry before the congressional
committee Monday at the
Capitol.
A. P. Thorn Gives an Outline
of What Railways Will Ask
at Congressional Hearing
A. P. Thorn, general counsel of the
Southern railway and counsel for the
railway executives' advisory committee,
outlined before the meeting of the
\atinnal Council of the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States yesterday
afte.noon s-me of the suggestions
the railroad pr. s.dents are> to make beto;
e the. cong. ess onal invent gating
committee, v. h.< h begins its sessions at
the Capitoi Monday.
Mr. Thorn's . tatcment "-"as regarded
as b? cspe.ia importance, inasmuch as
he is, by reason o. his po. itio.i as counsel
to the ex.cu-ives. P.ted to speak
w.t.i authority as to the aes:res of the
rai.r^aas.
What Roads Will Ask For.
Mr. Thorn said the railroads would ask
for:
A federal incorporation law for Interstate
railroads. ?* .
A measure enlarging the interstate
commerce commission and creating
regional bodies under it with original
jurisdiction in rate questions, subject
to appeal by carrieis or shippers to the
entire commission.
Amendment of the act to regulate
commerce so as to reduce to sixty days
the present period of ten months during
which the interstate commerce
commission m. y hold a tiled railroad
tai in in susp n~ionf and
Authority to the commission to iix
minimum as well as maximupi rates,
such as it alone has at present.
History of Railroads.
Mr. Thorn discussed the history of
American railroads and their regula
tion, adding:
"The impression today is that the
men who manage the raijtfbads can
only be kept in the ranks and in step
by the prick of the bayonet. Has the
time come for a change in the conception
of the American people on that
subject? If it has not come, if there
is no possibility of the managers of the
railroads oeing entitled to the trust
imposed on them by the people, then
there is an end of government regulation
and then there must be government
ownership.
"We stand now before the people declaring
our belief that the work of
correction, repression and punishment
has gone far enough and that the
people must pass deliberately on the
question. We stand further on the
proposition that the character of the
men in general in charge of these instrumentalities
of commerce is such
Lhat they are entitled to trust and
confidence, because they realize the
sanctity of their fiduciary capacity."
Expect Fair Treatment.
"YfV Ttinm sa M fho foilrnnric nrntilil
niter the coming investigation in the
belief that they would be fairly treated
ay the country, knowing they could
not expect special favors, and that
:hey would get nowhere if they atempted
to ask them, and realizing that
f what they ask does not come up to
he public's rod stick their request*
vill be rejected.
One of the most serious problems boPore
the railroads, he declared, is tho
juestion of credit. He said there is so
ittle desire to invest in capital stock
if carriers that they have been forced
;o borrow their money in the last few
rears on mortgages or other liens that
nake fixed charges, and that the danger
point in this sort of financing has
>een reached.
Problem of Living' Cost Not Solved.
Remarking that both great political
>artles nad offered, but failed to soIto
he problem of the high cost of living,
dr. Thom suggested that if the rail*
oads were given capital to develop
he vast territory of the oountry yet
in touched the quantities of t^eat and
- ----- - - -
