OTIHER SIDE
- - -m
NO. 8683. WuTm.-.A. WASHINGTON, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 1916. ONE CENT
8-HOR SATTLE
EW MAY
Cap*a and Labor Ready for
Developments y6terday in the labor
crisis indicated that it has settled down
to the greatest fight of its life-a fight
for an eight-hour day for all toiler.
With the danger of a railroad strike
more tmnbant than ever with labor Wead
era to convention threatening trouble.
with raltread and big business interests
prepauiug to fight the Adansam eight
how railread law to a anish, the lteatiio
besmes e of grave csoern te P-smi
dm Wilma and a-misa isd
As.embled to discuss problems thut 055
ftreat the nation as a result of the ra
read diantio the Natisal Cinteil of
the C.amber of Commerce Of the Unite
States beard addresses I Represent
ative Adamant, author of the sight-hoar
law, supporting the measure, and Dr.
Charis it. Van Hise. president of the
l'aiversity of Wisconsin, who. criticlsing
Congress for Its pamage of the law, mid
"the public toterest is paramount."
The fight has manoned to Washington
labor and empital leaders for the greatest
indusrial struggle in years. It will e
ts f- a- y, when the joint Congressional
Committee opens hearings for and against
the eight-hour law for railroad employes.
In Baltimore the American Federation
of Labor, in convention. marked time It
will do nothing untl Monday. President
GomperSa had this to my about the eight
hour law for railroad men:
"The Adamson law will go Into effect
January 1. regardless of injunctions, eon
tests. or anything else the railroads do."
The business men of the country. as
represented by the national council of the
Chamber of Commerce of the United
ktates, went into session to determine
their attitude In the eight-hour fight.
Alfred P. Thom. general counsel for the
railway executives' advisory committee.
told the council the railroads are already
mortgaged to the limit of safety and that
their equity In physical property has
reached the danger point.
Rita Eight-Hear Law.
In an address before the council last
night Charles Nagel. former Secretary
,,f Commerce and Labor, said railroad
employes will not accept the eight-hour
law when they reflect upon Its reel
meaning. He said It deprives them of
certain privileges, as It takes no cognis
*nee of a run in fixing wages, but used
only time asa basis.
Mr. Nagel urged Federal incorporation
n! the railroads and other transporta
tion' facilities. He said the problem of
national defense Is one of the strongest
arguments for it.
VILlISTAS WISE IN
A *ElUAUA 0
Carranza's Strongiold in North Again
Isolated by Bandit Army.
Sy W. 1i. GRIFIF"I.
q lternatiemal mews Service.)
EI Paso. Tex.. Nov. 17.-Villista troops
are again closing in upon Chihuahua City
from all sides and Carranza's stronghold
o, the north again is isolated.
Gen. Trevino now has less than '.101
maen in Chilhuahua City and is preparing
:, evacuate. according to advices received
b y. Federal agents here. He will try to
mlove southward and Join the forces of
.en. Murguina. who is moving north
fom Torreon.
Col. Mariano Tamer. one of the Villa
;eaders operating along the railway north
.,f Chihuahua CIty, wrote his borther.
Who lives here. that he. with the notori
.,;s Quevedo brothers and Manuel Chao,
all Villa leaders, are planning an early
attack on Juarez.
It is believed here that the bandits who
held up a train yesterday at Terrazas
were part of the Quevado force.
V.ictims reaching the border reported
that more than 200 men, women and chil
dren were forced to strip in the cold
beside the triteks while the bandits
searched their clothing for valuables.
Much of the clothing was stolen.
HAS GIVWEN 243,690 SHAVES.
Lerain. Ohio. Nov. 17.-When Theodore
Curtis gested from his labors today, the
twenty-fifth anniversary of his entrance
Into the barber's trade, he looked dowm
the vista of a quarter of a century and
saw a quarter of a million sets of whis
kers that had fallen beneath his trusty
blade.
Not exactly a quarter, either-243,S0, te
be exact. Curtis' tabulations show that
he has shaved men that many times.
Some distinguished men among them, too,
"Well, how does the old knife work to
day?' is a question he has put to Prest
dent McKinley. Roosevelt and Tait, Sen
aors Mark Hanna. Matt Quay, Albert
Beveridge and Ben Tillman, and the un
titled Doe Cook. Buffalo Bill. Jess Wit.
lard, Tod Sloan and Harry Thaw.
U. &. APPEM CMA LOAN.
Chicago, Nov. 17.-The Continental
Trust and Savings Bank of Chicago has
the "diplomatte support and protection'
of the United States government to mak
Ing a lean of 5,U,0 to the Chinese gov
er==mat, It was announced today.
PA letter froen Secretary of State Lan
slag, mnade public by the bank, expresse,
his gratification over the loan, negoei
tiens for which were concluded yesterday.
The loan is for three years at a rate of I
per cent.
AVIATMEU READY 101 TRI.
ChIcago, Nov. 17.-Ruth law, the Neic
York aviatrix, plans to leave at 4 o'eloch
lomorrow morning on her atenpt te fly
froma Chicago to New Test; withmet step
Her Carties b-pla wan set up ii
Great Park today, lbs wiR earry aeth
lag In the nMacn but ssventy-9v gal
loss of gsolne,.
"If I amn comnpefld to omee down, 1
am at least going to try to beet VIcto.
Caristream's ecord for the trip," *6
today,
' TIU lUIEAlE REU2AiE
LeAdo, Nov. 17,-The Dutch smer
isemer Kesamgen Reate, whiofh wo.
s55i bs the Germaens eos Nevme I)
ad luae to Zeehrugge, has hess ie
11. mQ, se e News Agene Qapa
IS A POUMXAL lOPM.,
West C1LOmn., Nov. 1T.--NaE,
Iawrein m, f ereerly of W
Uted, bad two 3igm which sha had Deme
Wlsa as4 ==gh- As ueess el
drew nea ft was meted thatWae e
getting ftter wheo ualEb senemd to
be growing thinner and looeda sickly.
Hughes died last Thursday. Wielo iS
BtM 1etting fatter, the latest returns
show. ' .
Iarry Ea=atfeM had not lost a coat by
the Hughee fetatFy, fr he took the four
tegIed Wiliea's rowth as aMn eNen, bet
money on the t Wison., ad
won fuly the - o.f the deecosdd
Hughes.
FRESEE $15 OAL
Christm yBring Record
High Price in District.
Coad at S per ton by Christmas may
be the let of the consumer, following re
ont adennes of soft coal in New Terk
to 1 per ton. Washington dealers, e
peclany those who contract to SUppty
coal to the government departments.
could not may just when an advance
would occur, but predicted one shortly if
the car shortage situation is not reUeved.
Although the situation was relieved to
mome extent Yesterday by the arrival Of
eight cars, local dealers made it plain
that them was no guarantee of a plenti
ful supply in future.
Dealers attribute all the trouble to the
Inability of railroad dnicials to move ears
fast enough to keep up with orders.
Soft coal in Washington has been at a
premium, if was learned, for weeks, with
reported sale* at $15 per ton. Apartment
house dwellers, it was maid, have offered
tempting prices for coal, but dealers
have had none to sell.
The arrival of two cars of coal yester
day for use in the city schools removed
for a time the fear that shortage of coal
in the schools might result in their being
closed.
The six care of coWt which arrived In
the city yesterday for government con
sumption were divided among the Bureau
of Engraving and Printing, the Agrical
tural Department, the Treasury and the
Army and Navy bulding.
LAUNDRIES MAY BOOST
IRICES IN WASHINGTON
Baltimore Convention Discusses Situ
ation Here.
Although the neoessity and advisabil
ity of raising the cost of doing the fam
Ily wash at laundries was discussed yes
terday before the annual convention of
the Maryland and District of Columbia
inndryman's Assedatto= in session at
Baltimore. there is no danser of local
concerns taking this action at present.
according to officials of several of the
largest companies.
F. V. Killian. proprietor of the Frank
lin Laundry, says an increase In the
price win come only as a last resort.
F. H. Walker, president of the Yale
Laundry Company, states that the cost
of all materials purchased by laundries
have increased. Soap has soared from
61t cents to 8% cents a pound: bluing from
14 to S1I a pound. and hard to get at that
price; starch has increased 1% cents a
pound; and the cost of wrapping paper
has gone from 4*% cents to 11 cents a
pound. Even the cardboards which laun
dries place in shirts have gone from 90
cents to $2 a thousand.
FIVE IURT IN AUTO
COLLISION ON BRIDGE
Driver Arrested and Injured Taken to
Hospital.
An automobile accident on the Penn
sylvania avenue bridge over the Ana
coetia River last night rsulted in the
serious injury of Mrs. Marie Pelton and
the arrest of Phillip 0. Simms.
Simms. who lives at 20 A street south
east, was held at the Eleventh pre
cinct station, charged with collision. He
was driving the car in which Mrs. Pel
ton with riding, along with Miss Ethel
Lusby, Miss Mamie A. Thomas and John
C. Schaefer, of Pleasantville, N. J.. owner
of the automobile.
Mrs. Pelton and Mis Lusby were taken
to the Casualty Hospital in a passing
auto, where it was learned the former
w'a suffering from fracture of the nose.
bro'ees to her back and sides and pos
sible internal Injuries.
MUss. Pelton is 5 years old and lives at
307 Eleventh street northwest. She war
conscious when taken from the wreck%
age.
Msm Lusby's injuries were slight and
she returned to her home last night.
The party were returning to the city
at about 10:30 o'clock when the machine
collided with an auto delivery wagon
owned and driven by John McCade, of
Good Hope. Both machines were badly
damaged.
McCade, Schaefer and Miss Thomas es
caped with algilt injuries.
8I4K TO KEY AMD) F.AMln
San Bernardino, CaL. Nov. 17.-WIth
flames rapidly destroying the building,
six telegraph operators on the second
floes, of the Santa Fe station remained
at their keys today until they had flashed
a warning to agents along the line that
the train dispatching mervice would be
crippled.
Just before the building collapsed they
were taken down ladders by firemaim, but
Inot until all had been slightly burned.
4"E"? ANCEER NrtLZanZn.
El Paso, Tex., Nov. 1T.-Joesph Wina.
the Amnerican rancher whese relase was
dmaded by the State Deepatent, was
Uerated from the Jimrea Jail by Car
ransa authorities after bond of ##a bad
bees provided.
W"llems who had bee. supplylng Gen.
Pershng's earn. at Colsia Dubian with
beef, was erresed by the CarraaUta
and threetened with death ea the eharge
Ithat be was a mntne thief.
Vienna, Nov. 1?-.2~ e tae et am
other rItalan trmnh by ta. Aasra.. in
their new otodive Dear Gegwa was am
Demdby the war eeas tg.
-akATS OR EIUS
1 .1-ghtstasessps, five
b* lngto neutral countries.
s-k today by submarines
, 1,210 tons: Sty
1.M tons; Ian. Greek.
Tbere, Danish, L tons;
'. 2, tona; Vega,
ton.: Torridal, Norwe
F. iattarasso, .Britiak #l8l
was a passenger and mail
lUNg from Bergen. The pas
and erew, as well as the regis
were saved.
HUGE LOAN
Je4riof U. S. to Aid Brethren
in Europe.
(By 0e instermsoe News ees")
New York. Nov. 17.-A plan to rain a
0aa.. "i necessary, the larget In the
billy of the world," for the rehabilit
tieu ef the Jews In Europe. was an
ameged tonight by Judah L. Magnes.
160:an Is to be noninterest bearing.
and how It will be repaid are to
be as Dr. Magnos put it, "t the
ofthe Jewish race. never yet di&
member of the Jewish race In
is to be asked to contribute.
eampaign for the raising of the loan
M: h conducted on a scale that can
only U described am coloseal. Support
in th rabbi in his efforts are some of
the hut-known Jews In America. --
At tot the proposal seemed to be too
stupendous to be practicable. But, after
I cesearnose with several leaders of the
race, it was deelared to be quite feasible.
The movement will he launched at a
meeting in Carnegie Hall on December
B.
iscussing his plan last night Dr.
Magnes said: "There are hundreds of
thousands of Jews in Europe to whom
the ties of birthplace are as strong as to
those born In America and to whom, no
matter how far their fortunes might be
advanced by migrating elsewhere, a plan
for leaving the place of their origin
would be repugnant. These we hope to
aid."
STelegraph Tips
Chicago, Nov. 17.-Stanley Luukowskl Is
free today. He won a divorce when he
swore that his bride wouldn't let hir
take off her shoes on the wedding night,
but delegated that job to his sister's
beau.
Springfield, Ill.. Nov. 17.-Lying at the
door of Abraham Lincoln's tomb, the
body of an unidentified man, who bad cut
es throat. Vas found today. The dise
try was made by Nicholas VOsi a
say and Bdb-ar Lee Masters, the poets,
who were conducting a party of literary
men to the tomb.
Chester, Pa., Nov. 17.-Crosby M. Black,
a former mayor of this city, member of
the Pennsylvania legislature and for a
number of years prominent in Chester's
business, political and social circles, is
dead here.
New York, Nov. 17.-Battleships larger
than any that are now being built and
carrying 16-inch rifles as their main bat
teries, must be added to the United States
navy if Uncle Sam Is to make his voice
heard in the world. declared Naval Con
structor R. D. Gatewood, V. S. N., be
fore a meeting of the Society of Naval
Architects here this afternoon.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Nov. 17.
"The fighting betwen the Baltic and the
Carpathians Is irsignifIcant," said the
German war office today in a report on
eastern front operation.
Trenton. N. J., Nov. 17.-Col. Austen
Colgate declined today to accept the ap
pointment of adjutant general to succeed
the late Gen. Wilbur F. Sadler, Jr.
Chicago. Nov. 17.-The first ocean-going
vessel hinIt In Chicago in many years
ekared today for, the Atlantl to ply be
tween New York and Santo Domingo. The
vessel is the lionta and was built at a
cost of 500,000 for the Atlantic. Gulf and
West Indies Steamship Company, owners
of the Clyde Line.
Toledo. Ohio, NoV. 17.-The speed boar
Baby Rambler, occupied by Clinton
Wynn. 34. and Schuyler Bartholomew, 17,
which had been missing since Tuesday
morning, arrived in port today. The boat
was given up for lost. During a heavy
snow storm Tuesday night the men put
in at a small island between Monroe and
Toledo, where they rested until early this
morning.
Philadelphia, Nov. 17.-Earphones for six
deaf memhers of the First Presbyterian
Church, of Ocean City, N. J.. have been
installed through the generosity of a sum
mer communicant. The pews are directly
connected with a transmitter on the pul
pit.
Lansing, Mich.. Nov. 17.-Four hunters,
mistaken for deer, were killed in Michi
gan in the five days the season was open
In the State.
Cleveland. Ohio, Nov. 17.-Patrolman
Troutwine was behinJ a screen in a
tailor shop while his trousers were beli
pressed. Someone rushed in and told hin
an automobile was being atolen. f'Duty
irst," the officer cried. and the cold
breeses and gaping crowds gathered aj
he did his duty.*
Berry. N. H., Nov. 17.-Clarence N.
Garvin, 62 years old. formerly petnast
er of this town, committed suicide by
abetIng. His friends -ay his recent de
feat as a Rtepublican e andhdnto for rep
resentative in the legIslature- and the aby
mance of any hope of reapontment ai
postmaster had made him despondent.
Northampton. Mass. Nev. 17--mth
College corntinues to be the largest wor.
en's oollege in the wedti, inrou Eg
ures just made pube ea a ne
record mark. A froonaam gesog U
has brought the total tou ods 1,
studnt.
Lendon. Nov. 17.-The Inda 0 wun,
ment has sanctioned the ozese
mogitfnd. Franca and Italy in
Deemsbetr and January of
whea.
Leads., Nov. 17.-The KRag as
a seeamatl prebthb m
tieb et jewelry and aB
smanufetalres except s
PRY OEN l"IE"
TO BUCHAREST
Germans Take Liresht-Cam
polung's Fall Awaited.
(y the Inteatemal NO" wers.,)
London. Nov. 17.-The first dscive turn
In the battle of Campolung, neorwestern
'gate'' to Bucharest, begin three das's
Ago, came today, when Gen. Ye Wdm-f
hasyn capturd the village of Edret, six
maes north of Campolung. Whie' his
forees further to the northeast. mash
1 ing forward west of the Predeal roed In
the direction of Campolum broke'
through the Rumanian position.
The capture of Liresht is admitted by
the Petrograd war omee. It le feared
hefe that this latest socom saa the
deem of Camolung.
That city in his hands. the Teatas em
mander will be only seventy-eme ad a
half miles northwest from Buheaest,
with a direct rtAlway at his dsenesi ad
in a position t6 send part of his ftroes
to flank the Rumanians In the Traiyil
I vanian Alpine ridges, thus cutting off
their avenue of escape to their native
.On.
While this blow was struck against
Campolung, Falkenhayn's armies, I
in the foothills of the frontier Alps, swept
forward with equal force. Pushing sOuth
ward from Hothenthurm pas, they took
1,510 prisoners. including ten orSt.
In other areas they captured 41 Ru
manisns and twelve machine gums, bring-1
ing the day's total of prisoners to :,I. I
Bavarian troops took by stin the m
mit of Rungel Mountain en the Ruman
Ian frontier, holding it firmly against all
counter attacks.
CAlIE Of Wo
BY ALIlES IEINENTI
Victory Would Be First Decisive Oe
for Entente in Balkans.
(my the Imternatiemal News Servile.)
London. Nov. 17.-The capture of Mon
astir, which will be the first decisive vic
tory the Allies have won in the Balkans.
is imminent, according to dispatches re
ceived from Salonika today.
Fighting their way forward is the
mountains through deep mud and blind
Ins snowstorms. the soldiers of four na
tions are closing in on the important
Macedonlan city grees two sides. Rnssian.
French and iLaktan troops are aPpreach
ling from the south and Servian troops
from the east.
The &aulgarisa and German dmmr5
who w Oslle to wilbil"* am
the mou posltions th of the
Tc"erna 'Fer, have fallen back to a
point aoIut four miles from the city.
Monastir has been violently bombarded
by the allies' artillery, and allied airmen
have attacked it from the air.
5,h18,413 KISSES PLAY
PART IN $25,UO SIT
Wife Says Husband Promised Them.
He Charges Assault.
(By the lternatienal News Service.)
Cleveland. Ohio, N.ov. 17.-Ive million.
six hundred and eighteen thousand. four
hundred and thirteen kisses and 3,06.M
hugs fitured today in the trial of the
C5,tLA0 suit of Mrs. James W. Sturtevant.
Jr.. against her husband's parents for
alleged alienation of his affections. Stur
tevant. sr., is a wealthy contractor.
The kisses and hugs weren't delivered
in the court's prosence, but Mrs. Sturte
vant produced a letter written to her
while she ass visiting in Denver In
which Friend Husband said he had saved
them up to transfer when she returned
home. *
To combat this testimony young Stur-I
tevant said that his wife moved her sew
ing machine into his bedroom so she'
could annoy him by running it while he
was wooing Morpheus, and that she fur-!
ther bothered him by throwing rolling
pins and other articles at him.
Sturtevant admitted his wife's claim
that she frequently had sick spells, but
differed as to their origin.
"Jt was because e6er habit of eating
pie and cake for breakfast." said hubby.
"It was because I worried over his
treatment of me." aid wifey.
SINGER'S SPOUE HED.
New York. Nov. 17-After hearing
George A. Schroeder. her husband. re
manded to the Tombs Prison and ordered
held In ball of $5,000 to await arraign
ment on her charge of bigamy. Mme.
Sophie Traubman, former Metropolitan
opera singer. today related a dramatic
story of a whirlwind courtship on an
ocean voya e, a hurried marriage In
America and then a crushed romafice.
This came, she said, when she found her
husband had been married five times
and perhaps four of these marriages
were bigamous.
Schroeder. who is a member of a promi
nent Cleveland family, was sent to jail
to await trial next Wednesday. The con
tinuance was grated at request of his
attorney.
INew York, Nov. 17.-Plans to make
Iprohibition a part of the world's peace
Iprogram, when the present war ends, are
Iupder way. It was learned today that
temperance leaders In this country are
preparing for the formation of a com
mittee ready to sit at any time or at any
gae where the belligerent countries wtl
gather to readjust the map of Dsrope.
Mase meetings will be held thieughout
ow York Ste by ohurchee on Mon
day, January for the purpose of
pledging theint support to temperance
tagisiation. They alowill then take up
the matter of Wrl temperance.
XAY IOUsa'1,OOO,OOO.
Phniadmpha, New. 17.-The stockholders
tthe Pus. NMatal Ife Insuranea
an , of Pittsbmrg, and of the Union
inyInsurance Cempany of this city,
9,5 Lss si,PAMW aemording to State In
mea Ceso s eianse- J. Desny O'Neil.
etwo esmcerer have bees cited to!
sm ted e aphin Osnmay oout tel
My the .eaites.a. geeM gngg. g
New York. Now. 11-Hanes -amSi
suits to test the ckitusaii, t 'a
Ae-s eiht-hour law were Ue -
ba, in vauiees ederal oeorts
the ounry by, the ralreede.
This is is pureane of the plas 4
nommand by the railway managers earie
In the week to apply for sock inJuaiNs
in every Federal district court In the
country, with eaparat sots for eash e
the 20 railroads to each district it es
tOe. It wO MOUK in mer then 41
seb ise ,
In Beaes the New York New Haven
and Hartibd Railroad Cempany lie a
suit direted against United Etatee Din
triat Attorney George W. Anderess and
the ehairman of the four bret ede
in Messehusetts. Hearing was et for
December 1n. I
In Deitbmore, the Baltimore and Ohio
Raileed fled a similar suit. -anang
United States Attorney zanuel K. Dan
als and fourteen representatives of the
brmthaes.
In Louisville, Ky., euit wee fled by the
Illinoi1 Central Railroad, naming the
United State attorney, Perry B, Miler.
and four local brotherheed chairmak
Hearing was et for November M,
In Utica, N. Y, suit was Med by the
Delawan, Lackawanna and Western
Railroad.
PASTOR UE0NAUGHT I
WODS, WIH CHARGES
Says He Took Her to Live in Three
Empty Rooms.
soitial to M. Wehi,e. Roa.
Riverhead, L. L., Nov. 17.-Charge and
counter charges are contained in the
papers In an action for seapartion filed
here in the Supreme Court by Mrs. Ellen
Schwemler. against William Schwefler.,
stone mason, for several years pastor
of the Methodist Church in Calverton, a
farming community near herm.
Mrs. Schweimler states in her complaint
that after the marriage in Brooklyn, In
May, 1902, her husband took her to live In;
"three empty rooms" In Fifty-rst street.
South Brooklyn. She says she ramenled
there with him for three days and nights.
The complaint declares that eamoet from
the time the two met In Calverton, Mr.
Schweimler "has used vile language and
repeatedly assaulted the plaintif, leaving
marks of violence on the pere of the
plaintiff."
Tn his arswer Mor. Egwehger dlnles the
charge asp declae that his wife as
saulted 1im. "She hit me on the hemn
with a heavy glass on August 15, 1ML5
causing a serious wound," his answer
states.
LAY PLANS TO NERE
RICH COPPER ERMS
World's Greatest Red Metal Corpora
tion in Process of Formation.
(By the InterastienailNews Service.)
New York, Nov. 17.-As the result of
a series of conferences that have been
going on for the last week, an unofficial
agreement was reached this afternoon
looking to the organization of the great
eat copper corporation in the world.
Formal announcement is not expected
until next week. Changes may be made
either by omitting or adding companies,
but the merger as now proposed com
prises the Kennecott, Braden, Utah Cop
per, Nevada Consolidated, Inspiration,
Chile and Cerro de Pasco.
The market value of the Issued capital
stock of these companies based on yes
terday's prices is nearly $700,000,000. The
market value today of the Unted States
Steel Corporation's outstanding common
and preferred stock was Or1,1118,0001.
The merger's estimated output of metal
for 1917 is about W.000,000 pounds, or
about a third of all the copper to be
produced next year on this hemisphere.
At 30 cents a pound, this copper would
be worth $258.000.000. As the average
cost of production by this combination
is not more than 3 cents a pound and
certainly not more than 10 cents, even
including selling costs, the profits esti
mated for the combination in the year
1917 will be not lefe than $172.000.000.
SEE NERCHAIT XARME B00E
Philadelphia, Nov. 17.-In financial cir
cles it is believed that the passing of con
trol of the New York Shipbuilding Com
pany, with yards at Casndge, to Ameri
can banking and shipping interests in
dicates the rejuvenation of the American
merchant marine.
The New York company was purchased
by the American International Corpora
tion in conjunction with the International
Mercantile Marine Company, the Pacific
Mail Steamship Company and W. H.
Gr Ce o. for 18,rg.o,
CANT FOLTMW TIN|; SU~g
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. I7Ffteen
thousand dotar. ,h -demagee is thme sue
asked in a suit filed bf .rs. Gedie iteg
Ister against S do0cr in the Rialto Bunld
bag, becaue she allegee, burns received
from X-ray treatets Srevent her from
wearing latest style gews
Mrs. Register ebargee in her petition
that burns emher neck ind ehoulders
have caused her to have her style of
clothing altered. ,
London, Nar. 17.-ags reperted to
day that the Notwgia steamer Teruidal
has bees sad
The' Brtih -Oemenr V. Mattarauso as
it said tO e bae bees abeed by its
crew.
Part., Nov. 1Y-lu.wee.o h
Franch Ak irj h~wnidatwenty
first aerestieq a-eerth
annan Qaa nt
1 Tork, Nov. l-A aeepy tfaile's
ag Saved l., Brshgara wee a
work on the safe of mabe & Door. T%
had aheady drilied part way thregh a
layer of concrete whem Adolph Weba
ler, who had falen asleep over bi ta
lor's goose In the mext sUite. begm to
bheam.
He semnUy sawed his way threagh a
log, turned over on his aide . bagle"
bhaelt a motortruck. an hiboed for
the right of way.
The burgtlars. within an inch of SIk
0 to the safe. unnerved, promptly broke
for safety.
JEWS ARE FREED
Poiish Reforms Usher in New
* Era for Judaism.
<By the ..mueat New. servti.,,
Bertha (via fayville). Nov. 17.-"'ree
don for the jews of Poland," Is the oap
tion ever loag articles hn the Gersma
pre tdai announcing the datails of
an eo loaned by Gov. Gon. van Boo
eler, which proclaims the organisation
of a Jewish religious body in Poland.
ushering in a new era in the history of
udalan.
It gives the Polish Jews a far reach
log self-governmeut and for the rtit
time in history grants them permission
and offers them encouragement for re
ligious organization.
"Under Russian rule," says the Over
seas News Agency, in summing up the
new order of things. "the Jews of Po
land, as those of all Rusa, lived almost
without organization of the religious
body.
"By the present order of the governor
general the members of the Jewish re
ligion are reorganized as a religious body
according to public right. Guarantee i
given that no religious tendency can be
suppressed by the majority. By this or
der the Jews in Poland receive a con
stitution which corresponds to their oup
port and which i superior to the mmajor
ity of antk-amted constitutions of ether
European countries.
"This constitution attempts the crea
tion of religious life based on the free
dom of conscience."
MAY CAUSE SHAKE-UP
IN CNSULAR SERilCE
Bureau Chief Now Making Tour of In
vestigatiom in European Countries.
A shake-up tn the consular service mY
be the result of a ftour of ebosemtkae
Censlar Bureau of the Stats Deport
ment
Mr. Carr went to Europe nearty two
asinths ago, bu t was not then Under
stood that he had gone on such Important
business as is now stated to be the pur
pose of his mnission. He will probably
be home December 15 and make a report
to Secretary of State Iansing.
Offcials say that the investigation of
Mr. Carr may also have some connec
tion with the reports of important
changes In the corps of United States
ministers and ambassadors in Europe.
SAUSAGE BLACKJACK
CAUSES $4,0N SURI
Fichtel Gets Blue Eye, but No Cash
from Adelmann.
op.ial to The Wadsaston Bersi.
New York. N. Y., Nov. .17-Blood maY
be thicker than water, but blutwurst I,
stronzer in every way, as appeared In
the Supreme Court in the suit brought
by liul Fichtel for 5,000 damages against
Frans Adelmann. a felow employe in a
sausage factory, for striking his eye and
making It turn a dark frankfurter color.
Fichtel was formerly an officer In the
German army. But he left the German
army to shift for Itself. came to Amer
ica and entered a sausage factory. There
Ie found that Adelman. though only a
private in the Gerriyn forces. was an
aipistant foreman. Adelmann told Fich
tel to "hurry up" while he was putting
the jacket on a "thick one." The ex
officer, resenting orders from a former
private, clinched. and they rolled under
a table from which the "hot dog of war'
rolled down upon thetn.
A blutwurst landed on FIebters orb and
when they were pulled apart he had a
blue eye. The jury found for the defend
ant sausage slinger.
SEES ANOTE YEAR OF WAR
New York, Nov. 17.-The war in Eu
rope will last at least another year, ac
cording to Frederic Palmer. war corres
pondent. who arived here today on the
Holland-American liner Niew Amsterdam
Palmer declared that England is sendini
aeroplanes to the front at the rate e1
10 a week.
Mr. Palmer told of a British "tank
being stalled in front of the Germax
lines. A German officer. While prowlina
around it. found a door, whicb he open
ed. He was draed loside by the Brit.
lah crew and Is now a priaoner of war
NOD ClAMORS 10R MO0D.
Wyandotte. Nich., Nov. 17.--Armel
deputies today aurrounded the City jal
mph tobt wn teor and ~.
ESmuel Glanela. suspiected In comnectioi
with a double murder. 15e mnob wal
drive. of alter a sharp straggte witi
the peliop.
The murdered sem were Barry Pasl
it ad Merri Farris U Theyr war,
ahot down freau ambe ha the steata
Both wr -wealthy adg .aiee s lai the
organhttem- er a big Obt es hese
Indas, Pa., NeY, D.fNt. day1
without food er w~r dbrtpg
the ressaras et a PIramesti
Reck baa at es.'
eeam pot a h a UsM heet e J
H. ewaa' me da eb0 . bj
==nwu- am. ==&sa se ea -....
TO SUE -IER
FOR 11s TUE
hinrance Cmp.nm Remd
to Begin Action.
By DAMON RUNTON.
(4oesuottsoms News geresa6)
New Londen. Nov. 17.-Oagmis 60M.
lig the iuance em the tea$ T. A.
Seett. Jr. sk by the DeasoetiM wb
a ban ot ve lives early thi taesiing.
Prohably we Shel the German oareheat
sublsartis Destalmd at ewee.
The aetio. which ienmt IN efect to
a wit or at- -e-at wi he taba. as &
.marof preenstis to ph bmaaea
holder. amd to the faii. et the Ist
drowned en se t .
P"Wns he b pethen the
owaar. at the Demst -ad wa have to
Pat up heavy head befere the teeas.
side roafner am &sunin&"av port.
Attornsr representing the tinaurbase
comapanies are hurrying to NeorLe
don. An attorney for tlhe Eastern For
warding Company. American agents fe
'the submarine, arrived today from Ba&
timore.
Meantime. Capt. W. H. Withe, Utoted
States ste&Mboat inspectr for this dis
trict, began an investigation today to ta
the responsibility for the accident. 'apt.
Pawl Koenig. master of the 1autschlar-A
was the chief witness.
Seeret Testimony.
Capt. Withey would not make purie
the testimony adduced at the inquiry to
day. but it In known that ainsch wa.
standing en the after-deck the T. A.
Scott it. yellng through a megaphon.
let the 14a on the deck of the Iutsc,
I land aS the boats started through the
race.
The Scott was preceding tie sub-unii-n.
The tughoat Cassie. which. aitha tte
Scott, had forced the escort for 1i
Deutschland in the night dash from Nei.
rean. had faUen fully 1 minutes t-e
hind. This would be about Iaif a
lhe accident occurred about half i
mile twet of Race Rock 1ight. or inot;
eight miles or nine miles from Ne- 1
don. When the nose of the Scott bit ...
Ithe full force of the swiftly-runna.: tade,
it was as If It had aun into a stone -a i
The tugboat mometertly hung in ti -
current, its speed greatly slackened. Th. it
it must have alewed around.
The heavy Deutschland. crashing stea;
ily along through the driing water. w..q
too lose behind the Scott to veer f.
The steel trow of the submaarne It
the tugboat broadside on. It tor a jre,.t
hole nid-shIps In the Scott. It ich a.,
of wooden construction. In ithree nat -
ute the tugboat had vanished bene-i
the foaming tide.
IRiflillfES"
Nortieast Resiace Sustains $500
Damae Thmough Blaze.
Fire. discovered about midtight last
night at the residence of Mrs. V. Kernan.
.it Monroe street northeast. fo-ed xle
and her sister, who were maeen .anl
alone in the house at the tim-. to rui t I
the street in their night gown, in ord- r
to escape the flames.
The tire started in the kitchen of tI.
house and was .caused by an. overhe, ated
stove. An alarm was turned in and No.
17 engine company responded.
The flames rapidly spread front the
kitchen and ate their way through to the
roof before the women wret ntwskenc
i the smoke. There was then no tine
f4 them to attempt to save any of th
belongings or even dress.
lDamage to the extent of S.W was
caused.
WrLErM TO JAPAN OPEN.
Tokyo. Nov. 17.-Wireless greetings
were sent to President Wilson today h
the largest gathering of Amerinc-ans tver
assembled in Tokyo.
The meeting was held to celebrate the
opening of wireless commercial service
between Japan and the United States ant
!the messages sent to the President ex
'press the desirability of co-operation b
:tweeni the two nations for the promotion
of commerce and the tightening of the
bonds of friendship.
In reply to the message of congrat::
lation from Japanese Amhassador Sato.
at Washington, United States Ambas
sador Guthrie expressed the hope that
the latest triumph of science will draw
the two nations Into closer bonds.
FRIEND TO EAT CROW.
Milwaukee. Nov. 17.-H. H. A Molen
pah. president of the Citizens' Bank ,f
Clinton. Wis.. pinned his hopes on the
election of Woodrow Wilson. and because
of the fact that he will eat tender milk
fed chicken at a banquet in Milwaukee
next week. while five other prominent
Wisconsin bankers at the table will eat
crow.
Melenpah said he would eat crow if
WIlson was not elected. His five col
leagues took him up and each of them
bet. Molenapah proposes to get the
toughest crows that ever crowed and
Will servve them at the banqtet.
Phlladetpahla. Nov. 17.-Charges of to
morality among mnembers of the Mrd
fail proveked a lengthy discszae pre
an o tthe session of the Ameayesa
Ornithologists' Union, uhaieb i heig
Its fourth annal eomvemtn ta th Aimd
emy of Natural leoa
can expert on the habits et birds, aMd -q
that contrary to the hellef of pets and
naturalists the flufty creatures are far
reenbein c-rnt t thi ma ad
twi lbrt" at every ogperSti.
N~ew York. Nov. 17.-Mr. and Mr.
Charles E. Hughes, aseempanie by Wit.
I m It. Willcox. the natiema .agnla~a.
Iohaweed. N. J., emnrow Ger a rest.
hbmn Willooimmsmt a voybo
*day at Rtepeblcn hendegarters e Us '
rehers to hemdemartera en aMese to we
maM h ressit et the electam is
- up." e gave n ma lamlea
whs- Mr'. liughee winl mmande Preside=t
IWilmsis re-eee.
