THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Overcast to-day; to-morrow fair; .not
much change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 46; lowest, at.
Detailed wealher, mall and marine report! on pate 13.
he
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 79.
4
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1916. Copyright, lilt. by the Bun Printing and rublttMng AetocUitton.
ONE CENT
Jersey City and Newark. J TWO CENTS.
MYSTERY HIDES
DEUTSCHLAND'S
CRASH; 5 DEAD
U. S. Inquiry Begun Into
Sinking of Tug by Gor
man Submarine.
UXDKK.SEA THADKK
XOT BADLY HAlOltil)
Stem Twisted and Bow
Plates Torn, but Machinery
Is Undamaged.
COLLISION DETAILS
BEING-KEPT SECRET
Convoy T. A. Scott, Jr.,Sunl
With All on Board Save
Capt. Hinsch.
New Lonpo.v, Conn., Nov. 17. Secret
Investigation of the collision between .
the Deutscliland und her convoying- j
tug, tne i. .a. scott, jr., which was
sunk with the loss of tlvo lives soon
Ifter the Dcutschlnml started her
homeward dash this morning, was bo- '
gun this afternoon by Federal authorl
tlw. Capt. W. B. Wlthey and other
United .States Inspectors of stenm ves
sels, heard the testimony of witnesses.
The Investigators gave out no Informa
tion and tho witnesses were nlmost
tqually reticent. Capt. Paul Koenlc
of the Dcutschland would say only:
"It's a, terrible thing: to lose, those
good men. 1 feel It deeply. You must
excuse me."
One Important witness could not bo
ixamlned. He Is Capt. Frederick J Ilnsch
ef the Herman steamship Neck a r. Ho
alone of the six men aboard the T. A.
Scott, Jr., Is alive. But tho shock nnd
his long stay In the cold jvtttcr of The
Raco left Capt. Hinsch In a serious con
dition. It may be a week before he can
be questioned, nnd If. as I feared, pneu
monia develops It may be longer.
Cant-hl In Freakish Svilrl.
Albert F. Mix, assistant supei Intend
nt of the Scott Wrecking Company.
saw the whole affair from thu deck if I ,
the tug Cassle, which was trailing!
astern. It was he who threw a life pre
server to Capt. Hinsch und helped pull
the struggling man to safety.
But he, llko nil others connected with
the ease, proved close mouthed,
I am not nt liberty to make any pub-,
lie statement at the present time." ho
aid. "I assume I shnll bo called ti;ion
to give otTtclnl testimony. There arc
certain features, however, .which I think
thre can le no objection to any ono
knowing now."
Then ho related n few facts, which,
pieced together with the stories of others
ho were witnesses, give the bet ac
count It Is possible to compile at thW
time.
Within an hour from the time the
Deutrchland stole away from her
creened berth nt the State pier for her
sitirnturnus race homeward, that Is at
S:M o'clock this morning, she was a
half mile west of Baco Bock light. The
T. A. Scott. Jr., was a few hundred feet
shtad of the Deutscliland. Tho tug
Casele was some distance behind, fol
lowing In the submarine's wake.
The early atari haJ been made so the
Deuttchland could submerge In neutral
aters before daybreak. But the dark
ncis which was to havo been her protec
tion Instead contributed to her misfon
une,
Tho swift current, with one of Its 1
sh Ktt-lrls. throw the tug ncross the!
freakish
fcow of the eubmirlne, It Is" iissumed. In j
uie oarsnrss, 1110 injiiun nmvi 1
have saved disaster was lost. The
Dcutschtand struck the tug with such
force as to tear hcr wide open.
Tug Sinks Mke Mune.
The waters swirled In and, reaching
th boilers and tire, caused nn explosion.
The tug sank like a stone. Capt. Hinsch
was on deck. He was flung far over
board, which alone saved him. Tho
kipper of the tug and his four men
ere trapped nt their posts In tho pilot
home, engine room and galley.
So tho Dcutschland nnd tho Caseio
orrowfully turned back. Less than four
hours from the time she hud slipped out
Mst the searchlights of the United
State cruiser Columbia the submersible
was hidden again In her cunningly con
trive.l rctr'nt. threo plates In her bow
lovs In and her stem twisted to star
bfiard.
Capt, Konnls filled her tanks aft with
ater to-day. so tho bow Is high and nc
fillile for repairs. Kstlmatc of tho
t'me it will take to rcpilr hcr vary from
two iJa)B to a week.
The general structure and the ma
cilritry are uninjured, It was asserted
to-day. testifying to htr Murdy construc
tion, for the Wow she struck the tu
mushed that Btanch craft wide open.
On official who saw the craft to-day
, MI4 she could have goner on her voyage, I
the damage Is above tho light water-
, line. But she Is -screened as carefully 1
M before she made hcr unsuccessful
start, and beyond the' fact that, a port
able forge was taken to the. pier to-day
the. public knows nothing of what la be
ing don In the way of repairs.
Ko utrlct were the Inspectors of steam
vends Jurlng their Investigation that
they refused to permit James McGovern,
Collector of Customs, and Joseph C,
Comstock, his deputy, to attend.
Capt. Kotnlg, F. W. Krapohl. hla chief
of (lot r, and liana Kteese, hla chief en
Ilrieer, were among the witnesses first
mmlned. Keveral seaman of the
Deutschland and the crew of the Casale
were on hand, being kept In another
.room until their testimony was required.
The Inquiry probably will last several
days.
The men drowned were Capt, John
Rurney, Engineer William A. Caton. Ed
rl A. ettone, flremanl Clarenca B.,
Bavlton, cook; Eugene Diiaant. decX-
band.
The sunken tug la mM t haw m
FOOD COST ONE-FIFTH
HIGHER IN OTHER CITIES
Hnrtignn Itcttu-ns From Tour
of 20 States nml Kqiorts
on Observations.
After a tour of twenty-eight States
Joseph Hartlgan. Commissioner of
Weights and Measures, Jinn returned to
New York Willi statistics showing that
although food 1$ SO per cent. higher
than It should lo In this city, It I never
IhelCM 20 per cent, tower than In other
parts of the country.
Although Commissioner Hartlgan made
many rcmarkabto discoveries on the
tour. DCrhdnil thn inna, ramnrloht-. Ihlnr
about his trip In that although ho' U n
vnj .juivi.ii no is paying ror it out or
his own pocket. The Commlmloner was
ndvlscd by his physician to take a
vacation, nnd ho did so by visiting;
moro than one hundred cities from coast
to const, organising a farmers' conference
on tho high cost of living, which will be
held here In April. A State congress will
be held next February.
The reason for the lower prices of
foodstuffs In this city, Mr. Ilnrtlgan ex
plained. Is that mi large a supply of
food Is sent to New York, the greatest
food consuming centre In the country,
that the city Is able to buy cheaper than
other place which do not receive a pro
portionate largo amount.
A cause for the high cost of food Is
the disorganization of both the farmers,
or producers, und the people of the cities,
the consumers, Mr. Ilnrtlgan said. The
Stnte conference will consider coopera
tive buying and Belling and municipal
plants.
MEETS LIVING COST
BY BONUS PAYMENT
ljooKlvn
Trust Company
Sends Extra Cheek to All
Employees of Institution.
That it Is an III wind which doesn't
blow good to tome one, even though the
baker, the .butcher nnd the landlord
raise It with high prices, was agreeably
demonstrated yesterday to the employees
of the Brooklyn Tniht Company. To
each employee with his morning mall
camo a check and n note to the effect
that this "special gift" was to be re
garded as an offset to the Increased cost
of living.
The notes, signed by K. P. Maynaril.
president of the company, ran ns fol
lows :
"Having In mind the greatly Increased '
cost of living caused by the present i
world conditions, tho board of trustees'
has authorized
uthorlzed a special distribution off lB tmployces In train service and that
alii amount from Its earnings, for'.he wnBes fr 1910 will be even more -1
hand you this check." than llia, The bill also says that the, .
ii certal
which
Mr. Maynard refused to specify the -
exact amount distributed, but said It t in cMcnt of several hundred
was "substantial." The distribution was thousand tlol'nrs
vote,! nn Wednesday, but remained n The Baltimore and Uilo instituted Its
secret to a 1 save, the president and the , Baltimore, naming District Attnr
boar.l of directors until the notes -and Samuel K. Dennis and brotherhood
checks spoko for themselves yesterday. , J,.,,!.,. This road contends that Un
HORSE CARS TO GO BY APRIL 1.
i
f. (inn Promise I'riim .New '
York Knllitnys Company.
The New York Itillways Company
yesterday notltleil the Public Service
Commission Mint the last horse car will
1w. ftilfAti frnm tin RtrptK nf Manbnttan
j,.. .,ru iJiigiT, in fixing this data tho
company assured tho commission that1
joke. lU""Um ' "
The only ltno In the city on which '
horse cars regularly operate is the Mad-;
leon street nnd Avenue (J line, a part'ileciue wnai n.-uon .uu- " "
of the route of which lies In Chambers
street. '
Tho company, according to us state
ment to tho Public Service Commission.
hod expected to nave an norse cars on
tho 1
delay
the
be
oper
c 1. n.,l uMll lm rtnt. Itoniievelt'S
n'ext ' pc,ruary to Samoa. The
! , ..,in,i in.nlsht the rcnorf that
h(J ma0 tne trln, but he denied that
1-uiU be for any zoological. einnuioKiciii,
hkintinl ir lintiinlcal purpose.
'simnlv a pleasure trip for Mrs.
, Boosevclt and inc.". raid the Colonel
after he liau nruugni uum-r nmuw mn
vexation that knowledge of the forth
coming trli had become public.
He Intimated that tho trip la not cer
tain, nnd said It will consist simply of a
Pnll to Samoa, a short stoy there and
the sail home. There will bo no social
activities going, there or returning.
Suggestion that tho trip may embrace
the FIJI Islands was frowned upon by
tho Colonel.
WAHT ALL KENTUCKY DRY.
Movement I.annched for Slalewlde I
Prohlliltlan Amenament.
Irisvn.tr., Nov, 17. Voters In Ken
tucky, whero the yearly production of
whiskey esceods 80,000,000 gallons, will
be called upon to determine whether a
statewide prohibition constitutional
amendment will bo udopted. If the ob
ject of an organisation formed here yes
terday Is attained.
Announcement was made to-day that
the movement had been launched by a
number of persons. Includlnr members of
the bar, business mm, n.c inrnuiui ...
rniieM and a former Justice of the State
Court f API?'' . ln0 ,., In ,-,.
Only seven om ui y -
tticky are now "wet.'
FUNST0N WARNS BAPTISTS.
Intimate- He Will Brio Libel Salt
b "Lost Simla" Bim,
San Autovio, Nov. 17. Oen. Funaton,
mmentlns: to-day on the action of the
BaTo General Association of Virginia
i. Vorfolk. Va., yesterday In adopting
a' S proteVln. agalnat hi. al
feaed attitude. Intimated he might bring
ftoel 1 aulta alnat hi. crltlca.
TOe controversy tr'ed from OM.
- A-fT- ..nix. Dr. J. D. Oambrell.
renrwentlni the Texa. BapU.t Btat.
nSIr that he did not want men In
th. rnly to ,U T con.ldered a. "lo.t
MltoptUta, who are dUtortlng the
.t.tunaut of mr poaltlon regarding the
XlVt chweh work aewUble In bor
ii, kil , aUr put their prop
rty. la tne mms . ,
Ine by .-sovemucr inn owing io, u. Adamson. cnairman "i mo nm she Intended to wear the necklace, when i r '.. , . public opinion." .nominally neutral. Is--occupied b1 Ger- Juina. east of Hie struma, which tho
s in obtaining cars from the shops (;ommlttee on Interstate Commerr and t,c ,.lscovcrd hcr loss, sho reported It cm,'" ' frJl... v, 1. I Lord Hobert ronduded with nn ex- mm troops. To-day's French fitatemcnt I British occupied recently. They aru
company nas reporicu mac u win author or ineeigm nour i.i, iuu r c.i- tf Arthur Woods, Police Commissioner..,,;;. ?.. .i, n.:. V.7.. nresslon of hone that the pressure of I follow." : pusmng cmser lo nemirhlssar and th
iinal.le to put its iirsi esi c.i r in ucnt Char " ll. un mc ni ii c Lniur- with t'.-o cninest rcjuest that there bo no do, ar, t,,; "'" J" ,,,;'" ' American public opinion would bilng1 Last night passed with relative B.nl defile, the entrance to Bulgaria
-ration before the latter part of No- ,.v of ,yicon n. Dr. a n Hlse con- pu,,llvItj.. naKni.,i a fp(.eM .tetec 1 """a I ,'"?,Sf""5 rZ ""iJl about this result. , ouiet along all our front. French inn- , .. 1 "e French nrinounco to-night that In
vmoer. uernneu me nHiiv . i'""" ' ' tile to the case, and private deleclli e . ,at .. w,,. b -ll-litlv "Tower thsr. is "f" have .ompelle.l two enemy air- ",r sml,;"u,1 "r2'"K ,' " iiie.soay
".. the last session of Congress and advo- , ,-etuliie.l by Mrs. llarrlmun. e price "f 30 000 SOW DEPORTED. 1 Planes to land Ithln our lines, one the they raptured 400 prisoners, ttireo
ROOSEVELT GOING TO SAMOA. 1 cated a wage commission ns a solution of So far thcy haV( ,)CPn xmMo l0 B(,t f fr'cc of tl o 1 oris loan. The lel l iSU.VUU lU UtUl UK1 V.U. , yesteiday at a point to the mitrailleuses and a Cinch howitzer. Tho
. I the problems which now threaten to pre- fl rIUPi or fV(,n to ,,vance a satisfactory , Wl" ,vnd,0"Vc " torA -v , . . -.no n , ,. - .... soiVth of .itlchy and the other yes- 'rench statement to-night fol
.,n,.. . Plra.nrr Trn for the clpltnto a strike. ,lcory ,0 llccount tor le dlseppeaiance J'tr? nJ i rM "'on " ,I,e terday.nra. Boye-en-Matz. The avl- ,l"s:
... ..... The council now a nn aim nigni ses- (lf t lie Jewels. The nafo Is built Into the ... in lho of , . Mat, llrltUh Are Informed. ators in each can; were made prison- Army of tlio Orient: On tho left
Colonel una Wife. U0n und will submit a number of pro wnn bouse. It had not been "v, n,l '.atP win ofrer onlv "o r i- i-i-n-.,. 1i,,i I irs. bank of tho Struma, the British con
OT8TE Bat, L. I., Nov. 1 7;-F..r dlf , pomU r legUla. . to the n.emljers o ,,, ,, for Mveral months. .Since Mrs. ' RJYl' rTuinfrfn' oS.'fon on I Be ntl ady have" 'be n 'deponed "o . V-terday French nvla,o, dellvere.. tlnucil ro adinnco and carded th.
r.nm h a frlim to Africa anil 10 me t.iiaiiivri ...u nun,s i iircv inimsey, a iiauKnicr oi f k m.inin. tin nnn nun i .1 ... - ... ,. ., in ins recion 01 Amicus iiny-unir 111aKr 01 iniraKii.
FOUR MORE ROADS
FIGHT 8 HOUR LAW
Now Jlnven, Illinois Central,
Jl. & 0. nnd Lncknwnnna
Seek Injunctions.
II. S. COURT GRANTS ORDER
Hearing to Uc Held at Nor
wich, N. Y. on Dec. fl-r-Villous
Plan Action.
The New Haven, the Illinois Central,
tho Baltimore and Ohio nnd tho Lacka
wanna railroads swung Into lino yester
day In the fight against the Adamson
eight hour law. The New. Haven filed
Its suit In Boston, the Lackawanna In
tltlca.
Meanwhile the action rtarted In the
latter town on Thursday by the Dela
ware nnd Hudson brought almost Im
mediate results. United States Judge
Ocorgo W. Kay yesterday issued an or
der to compel the Federal otllclats of tho
Northern District of New York and the
heads of tho trainmen's brotherhoods to
hnw ransn whv Iho Delaware and Hud-
- - ..... -- - - . , .
mil nml thn T.-irkawnnua should not bo t
. - - .1..
granted nn Injunction preventing tho
'elfflit hour lnw" from come Into effect.
Judge Bay granted this order In Au
burn, nnd ordered, nil parties In the
suit to be represented at a hearing to
bo held In Norwich. N. Y.. on Decem
ber 9. (1. L. McLean of Albany Is tho
Delaware nnd Hudson's conned In this
action, and W. S. Jenny of Ncw York
represents the Lackawanna.
Tho Delawuro and Hudson also pro
ceeded wltWdcspatch In this Federal dis
trict. Through Its local counsel It had
a suopo?na nerve on uimcu """" i
irici Attorney ii. nnowucn .nummm.
All ihfsi activities were noted w
Marsnnu. .
noted with
Indignation by the railroad men's spokes- I
men Hi this city. In tho absence of the i "Tl: local communities will Ims ndiiiln-' toward a better future. The Busslan
brotherhood heads (Jeorge H. Sines, vice-1 slercj tilrull(., n board elected by the plutocratic electoral system In certain
president of tho railway trainmen, said t i;zcns of the Jewish parish under ma-1 communities Is nbollshed and the elcc
yesterday that he nnd his associates jority itile. This board will have four tur.il rights of largo communities are
realize the case must come . a head members In addition to the rabbi. For recognized.
sooner or later, but that If tho law Is the largo local communities a special or-1 "Jewish circles In Poland receive the.
declared unconstitutional "that meant j B:lnizatlon bus been provided. new order enthusiastically. All parties
war." ' among the Jews consider It very lm-
Mr. Marshall said yesterday lie Is llatr t commnnltlr.. irtant that the Jewish community Is
wan ng lor insu unions i..n. "-' --
ton heroic no lanes any union in mv
...... . vaii,i. would Increase
law f.lls to prescribe nny Manuam iy
,vhcli It can bo guided and that then- Is
im su h thing in the rallioau service as a
"standard da's wage."
VAN HISK ATTACKS LAW.
t'lilvrrolfy "( WUi'iiimln llr.ml His
pule .Mr. Ailnin.oli.
Washington. Mv. i a meciing 01
commerce of
consider tin- relations of the lailroads to
the public and to their employees and to
take with respect of the hearings to be
gin before the Newlar.ds commission, a
Molnt coinmiuee oi congress, rtex. ."mi-
I jay. was enlivened to-day by a sharp
controversy neiwren iirinrsini.nin.'
Mtates In the form of a referendum
endum.
rtTfcd
to rcu-
mainly embodying tlio questions propose-
by the railway executives loomng 10 rci
snnl rul r f t 1 nannptillnn
erau.anuii v.,..... w. -
Hrothrrhnods Wonliln't Attend.
A feature nf the council was the re-
ton heroic no lanes any i"i"n in ...,,,,.. , ,.lri, E-iie which ull I cording to public right and that the pos-
rTJl!JtwX ?.n 'i'- tv ox,-,,s,1" w;,rV" ,,!,
?' f liL?fi,. , hi v. ' , this administrative council, which will have front departments of Jewish life
will bj brought to trial. Lien at tins ..,,,,,.,,.,.. ,, , ,,, i through the rneiiis of well conducted
early stage the case is beginning 10 .c- .iclcsates will be according to I self-governing bodies. War has brought I
mand n great jlenl !1'! IheSiropoitlonal system ami U 1 two V uns peakable misery to the eastern Jews.!
''u0'1 ? il V.Xm tf.t.nuMHt'"- ach "-'ctlon will elect the same . hut on the other hand It has brought
Tho New Haven in t? '"' -"r'.,il1' number-of delegates. this new constitution, which is of the
nctrMtf hrit In tnl.a It till 1(1 S &.60 A.'J 1 1 lU .... . ... ..... I it . t t tk.i.
rlous view which the assembled business "Leu Pedieurs de I'erles." wlthnut say ' ,,url,, . to reimburse the threo dtlei formally declined to accede to the Ger
men take of the railway outlook and Ing 11 word to any one of her lops. Next for Important and unusual exiieudl- i man demand, the reports say. protesting
their opparcnt eagerness 10 arrive at . morning sue iniornirn wir oninnusnmer j ture, , W,rii they have been subjected
some solution of It. Another feature was1 that the necklaco and a pair of pearl PnC(, ,ilc outbreaK of the war; to pro
the refusal or the heads of the railway j 0 irilng" had disappeared and that the tll(l 0,t,iuinal funds for similar ex
brotherhoods to participate, although in-1 safe showed 110 signs of having been r.iuliturs, and for other munlclnl our-
lited by the national council.
t-i.ilA ty, Vntlnti'tl lm.npll u-.i. In
iii.v
Session me iviur.,i.v.i i. ui....' nn
busy preparing 10 uerinu me suns
brought by tho Santa Fo Baltroad nt
tacking the constitutionality of the eight
hour law. This case will come up on a
preliminary hearing at Kansa" City next
Thursday and Is expected to bo moro or
less a test.
The chief Interest, however, was In the
meeting or the National I'ounell. presi
dent Van lllse declared "the public In.
teres! Is paramount" and that legislation
is necessary tn protect the public from I
threatened Interference with commerce, j
neprceentatlve Adamson, defending ;
the eight hour bill, told the National
Council that Important legislation was
to be passed soon, and probably would
lie passed before tho chamber completed
Its referendum, but ho declined to say
what was contemplated. If he knew def
initely. Judge Adamson declared Con
gress had power to control the opera
tions nf railroads, even lo taking them
over and operating them, but In the next
breath asserted there Would be no Gov
ernment ownership.
Views by Other Economists.
Other Imports nt speakers of the day
session were Dr. Victor Clark of the
Carnegie Iiu'ltullon, who nindo nn In
vestigation of tho covernment of railroad
labor conditions In Canada, Au-traU
and New Zealand, nnd who pronounced
the Canadian disputes act a great suc
cess, nnd Henry It. Towno of New York,
who outlined to the members of the
council his plan for avoiding strikes and
lockouts, Indorsed by the Merchants As
sociation of New York.
Alfred P. Thorn", general counsel for
the Hallway Kxecutlvea Advisory Com
mittee, told what the railroad, desire In
the way ot reueransaiiuii, n iirunraiiiiiiu
that was outlined at the meeting ot the
committee recently In Washington by
. 1. r, -- V. 1 1
rTHIlP- Iiumw-IM ,
Mr. Tbom said the railroads would
enter the coming Investigation In the be
fJonuI on owl Page,
JEWS IN POLAND
BY COUNCILS
Self-Government Is Granted by New Order Issued
by Germans---Adn.inistration to Have
Right to Impose Taxes.
Bci:i.t., by wireless, Nov. 1". Oen.
von Bcsclcr, Governor-General of Bus.
slan Poland, has. Issued an order at
Warsaw In regard to the organisation
of a Jewish religious body In Foland by
which religious self-government Is given
to tho rollsh Jews.
"Under Ilusslan rule the Jews In Po
land, us In all Ilussla. lived almost with
out n aatlglous organization," says the
Overseas News Agency in Icscrlblnff the
new order. "The hostility of the Ilus
slan authorities to the Jews found ex
prcsslon In well known laws and In un
interrupted persecutions nnd oppression
of the Jewish community, as well as In
the fact that a religious body to which
H per cent, of tho population of Poland
belong was deprived of all uniform or
ganization. Only the formation of or
ganizations of Isolated parishes was al
lowed, and the union of parishes Into a
larger organization was forbidden.
lteco,znlra Rellglona Body.
"By tho present order of the Governor
Ocneral the members of the Jewish
Church are reorganized as a religious
I'llk. , iKIUIUIIIK III IIU1MI1 llll.ll, WW.
t....i.i. i.i V. .i.. .,
body, according to public right. Local
V1I3II lUlll!IIUII,t4ia 111 IIIU vuuiuicni v -
onir,,,. , ,ile ncw order aro unlu,i t0
county organizations. Tho heads of
these county organizations are adminis
trative councils, which aro made up from
the boards of the smaller communities
ami selected according to tho principles
of proportional representation.
"The ndmlnlMr.itlvo council will be
composed of eleven members. Of whom
three must be rabbis. At the bead of
the Jewish religious body will be a su
preme Jewish council, provisionally com-
t-i-mation. Tlio supremo council, nccord
ina ,n ,iln ar.fr i,.,. twentv.nne mom.
bers, of whom fourteen must IX! laymen
ati CVf rabbis. i
..Tho.. ..., ,.,,, .... ,lf ....mow recognized ns a reuiloiis body ac
" I' eif WW WliniUl U HCnOOl CllUCatlOn, JlIKlCit iin,iwanv iu men .mmr. i
$65,000 JEWELS LOST
BY MRS. HARRIMAN
l-'iiids Necklace mill Knmnirs
nun ." nnni hum i.iiiiiii.
Arc .Missing From
Her Safe.
Alii',
tiuv.ul
K, II. Harrlmaii has lo.H a dla
and ruby necklace valued at
000, the gems having been taken from
t)ip .lfc jn hcr ,,,,, t jlfth vcnw
;,,), suty-nlntli sKeet. This became
,.... ,. t nllt. ,wntP every effort !
, ,tpl ,.. incident secre!. i
Tlle W,,ow f tIP railroad magnate
Vi.1M ur,.sllp tor tho opening of thn Met
,jr, Ibirilman. was robbed of Jewels
V'i0.r,'" VSU,n"0 Nl,fn,!T,t w" '"
jjiij i.r mother bad seldom worn
jewels, uie uunney ronorry never was,
Jewels The Bumey robbery never was
cleared up.
. .Mis. liarriman went to the opera.
which by 11 curious coliiddener. was
rorccd. o suspicion nimcneu 10 nny
I mmW nf ,hc honsphold. it wil nsstrte.l
j Vnl
1 i'ill'li,i.i,.ii,. .iiv ,w..m- ,,.i,
1 rormeu mat wnoevei ansirnctci me
gems might be expected to realize upon
1 them at nny time.
1 At Police Headquarters yesterda it
I wvs tap) no robbery" nt the llarrlmun
home had been reported. Mrs. llnrrl
mun would not talk, Frank A. Lord,
Second Deputy Commissioner nf Police,
however, admitted thnt the loss nf the
Jewels had been reported November It.
tin was not fairiiiiur wun me ueiaus or
the Incident, he said.
Pawnshops throughout the country
have been telegraphed descriptions of
the Jewels,
ROADS TOONTROLOWH WIRES.
Wratrru Hystema ComblnlnaT loHnn
Teleirraph Lines, Kara L. W. Hill.
St. P.iVI.. Nov. 17. "It Is true that
Western railroads, among them tho
Great Northern, nre cnmhlitlmr to form
a corporation to control 48,000 miles of
telegraph lines," said Iyiuls W. Hill,
piesldent or tne ureal Nortncrn, to
night. "Bepresentatlves of the railroads In
volved held a conference In Chicago last
Friday, which I attended. We did
nothing definite concerning the organiza
tion, but only dl'cusktd tentative ar
rangements, These cannot lo niurte
public nt this time.
'The capitalization has not leen de
termined. Nor can we tell the amount
we will save by operating our own lines
until we have tested It out. Wc have
reason to believe, however, that It will
be a large Item, hut the chief advantage
will bo in the added convenience to thn
railroads.
"As to control of the corporation, the
Great Northern will have as much voice
In It as MOO Is to 48,000."
riNEHORHT HOTELS AND GOLF LINKS
new nptn. Inq. Htatraard Air Lint, lilt B'way?
Ail,
- ivl" ..-... ll.H-nl, ft lir nr l,9 n,. l In . .K LIU HO IIU IIV IIIC VAUn iBO Ui IIIVII "V" " " ........
TO BE RULED
OF THEIR RACE
i, I
thoso who have attended a special trade
or agricultural school and Jewish citi
zens who on account or their knowledge
of Jewish literature have received the
title of rabbi will vote In the first sec
tion. All other classes wilt vote In the
second section. Tho parish delegates
also will have, a part In the administra
tive council.
"Tho formation of associations for dl
vino service will bo al'owcd In every
community. Thus a guarantee Is given
that no religious tendency can bo sup
pressed by the majority. To tho com
munity will be entrusted the religious life
and education of the young, charity and
social work. The local communities, the
county communities and tho general re
ligious body, as represented by tho su
preme council, will have the right to levy
taxes and will possess tho privileges of
Incorporated public corporations.
"Tho order also contains detailed reg
ulations concerning the rabbis.
t'niler n Supreme Council.
"The Jews In Poland by this order re
ceive a constitution superior to the ma
jority of the antiquated constitutions of
other European countries. There Is no
doubt that this constitution will prove
beneficial to the Jews In Poland. Of
extremely valuable Importanco Is tho
possibility of uniform superintendence
through a supreme council. The con
stitution attempts tho creation of re
ligious life based on freedom of con
science. Although there ore differences
of opinion among the Jews, nevertheless
tho new order should bring unity In
place of the present lack of organiza
tion. The task of the supreme council will
be. above all, the reform of the Institu
tion of rabbi through providing good
conditions. Similar In Intent also Is tho
proposed promotion of a Jewish school
system.
especially ny the construction
of special schools In which the leading
Jews of Poland can press on bravely
$60,000,000 LOANS
TO FRENCH CITIES;
X V. Rankers to Advance
,
000.000 Each to Hnrdeau.v,
Lyons and Marseilles.
Kuliii. Loeh A Co., who recently
made a loan of $50,000,000 to the city of
Paris to lellcvo suffering nnd enlarge i
hospltal.i In that city, completed negotla I
tlons yesterdav for loan fn(.-i!iim tr.it . '
I 000,000 to the thrco French cities of
."'rIea"!' Il) A"A Marseilles The
lor -.. . eacn at r. per
cent., are for humanitarian iiurnnso
only.
ine loans, to run Uiree years.
,!on 0ft, sub-crl'ptlo'ns tn the first lot"
A SuWIe offering babl y wll be made
1 nrxt week.
, Ku)tn, ,',,. & ro. emphnstied the fact
i-uhn. I.neb fv mnhi.l,.l n,m
mat tn i.ians were made on the condl-
, OIllv thnt their nroceeJ. uw.r. nr.,
1 t0 )lp .,. fl. war purp,,,,.,,, Themrlii!
1 pores. It Is understood that part of the
I 1 lit .. I... . n - . . . .......
. ,,l,,'Up, iv, 1, uiiii, ...nuril 1110 Ull 1 1U
1 proceeds will nlso go toward tho build-
lug of hospitals to take care of tho
Injured.
Should the rate of exchange go back
,
tn the ante-war level, It Is figured
the holders of the bonds would make
betn een 5 and C per cent additional.
This amount would be more than 13,
000,000, The funded debts of the Jhree French
cities nre: Bordeaux, approximately $9,
000,000; Lyons, about 118,000,000 ; Mar
seilles. tS3.000.000.
With this loan the borrowings in this
country by foreign nations total approx
imately t?,080, 000,000.
75 MINUTES TO PHILADELPHIA.
Avlntor Msl.es NO Miles nn Hoar In
I'llKhf lo Washington.
Sergeant William Ocher. who left the
Wright Aviation School field at Mlneola
Thursday artcrnoon on the tlrt leg of
his flight to Washington, landed tn Phil
adelphia nffer a trip of seventy-five min
utes. The distance was 100 miles, giv
ing him an average of eighty miles nn
hour.
The' purpo'0 of the Journey Is to
demonstrate u stabilizer, nn Invention of
A, J, Mary of Chicago. A company
bended by John W. Wilson, cousin rf the
President, Is barking It nnd IntemH to
put It on the market and haie It adopted
by the army and navy nerlal soriice.
The Invention l, now being tried out
by tho aviation branch of tho Signal
Corps. It received Its first test In the
Fast last October 7 by Capt. Joseph V.
Carberry, U. 8. A., and Nuvnl Construc
tor II. C, Blchurdson.
Vlre-nrarent to lie Appointed.
Am sterpam (via London), Nov. 17.
The Berlin Oerwnnln announces thnt a
vice-regent will be appointed limned!
ately for Poland. This dignitary will
hold office until' n king Is formally
elected.
-1
BELGIAN SLAVE RAID!
CALLED DELIBERATE
Sir Robert Cecil Says Germany
Drained Country Dry and
Stripped It Rare.
ENTENTE IS POWERLESS
"Only tho Neutrals Can Re
lease People by Exercise
of Public Opinion."
London-, Nov. IT. In a statement
made to tho Associated Press to-day
Lord Bobcrt Cecil, Minister of War
Trade, uttered a vigorous protest against
Germany's deportation of Belgians and
ueciarcil that the people or Franco unu
England, no less than tho people, of Bel
glum, "hope that American public opin
ion will show Itself, not onlv In a few
'short days or weeks of protests and crit
icisms but In steady pressure upon tho
Invaders of Belgium to conduct tho war
against tho soldiers of the Entente Al
lies In the trenches and not against tho
helpless civilians whom they havo In
their power,"
I-ord Bobert reviewed tho measures
taken by the Kntcnto to provide relief
for Hho Belgians and characterized as
"a He" what ho termed Uermany's at
tempt to Justify Its action by saying
that Bnglnud was responsible for unem
ployment In Belgium.
"Three times during tho past year,"
Lord Bobcrt continued, "wo have pro
posed to the Germans Tl definite scheme
whereby the exports of Belgian manu
factures and even Imports of raw mate
rial might bo mado free under the con
trol of the Belgian Belief Commission,
and that the commission mlgnt control
all the funds arising out of the trade.
To none of these proposals have we had
a reply.
"The Hermans have consistently re
fused to do anything to usslst the relief
commission und Belgian Industry. In
stead they havo exacted 40,000,000
francs a month from Belgium, requisi
tioned every kind of machinery and raw
material, seized the funds of tho na
tional bank nnd restricted exports.
"They havo drained Belgium dry and
stripped her bare, and wc know nil this
policy was deliberately calculated to
create n maximum amount of unemploy
ment In order that when tho proper mo
ment arrived their slave raids might
begin.
Further, the Hermans Justify their
action on the ground that the uuem-
iloymcnt they themselves created had
become so bad as to overstrain the re
sources of tho poor relief. This Is tho
most impudent thing even Germany has
said since tho war began. You might
think the poor relief referred to camo
from Germany or from Belgium. Aa a
matter of fact It comes from the Entente
Altlcg tnrdUgh the Bcllff Commission.
This country alono In the last eighteen i
1 months has advanced sonic 550,000,000
l for food and poor .relief. This money
goes from, us freely nml without condi
tions, except that It shall be under neu
tral control.
It Is kind of the nermann to be so
$20,-7"?',p.ur "0 overstrain our r.-sour.w
,. )t a falr , w,;lt rKbt the Ger-
mans have to make tho charity of the
world nn excuse for enslaving thore who !
receive It. The Belgians aro going to
Germany on no ordinary work. They
are to bo caught up and crushed In the
Belgian territory. .Mennwhlle they can
and wilt bear the burden of keeping the
Belelnns from ntnrv.ilinn. llul thnv call,
not protect the Belgians from shivery ;'
they cannot Insure that when Belgium
Is liberated It will bo n nation and not
n desert. It Is only tho neutrals who
ived here througiromdardlann: l7.
ports from the tame sources say tliat thn 1
Germans plan tn take some auo.uno,
.,n.i f.., ti, ,.i, i-...i 1.. ..,,,.
her of cities for nil males over 1 1 tu re
m
irt for Inspection
Thn f ttrJHn.!, I IV.imrOI tit Pnttrnri I hna
that hitherto ll had acoulcced in all
the German on.ler. Gen. Ilopffer there-
upon imposed a fine of 200.000 marks fur
the refual of tho council to furnlth n
' list of male Inhabitants, with .1 further
I rln f A nnA inni-l,. ilnllv na Inrn 11. III.
nnnnr sw.vuv iiiarss uiiiiy us long us me
I council refused to give the list,
I Tho resolution nf tho council said :
"Tl,c nf Totirnal la prepared to
I ' " J ..'.'n w. .
submit without resistance to nil tho
exigencies authorized by the Inns and
customs of war. Its sincerity cannot
bo doubted, us it has shown perfect
composure and has nvolded any active
hostility during the period of over two
jears. But ut the same time the munici
pal council could not furnish weapons
against their own children, fully con
scious that natural law nnd International
law, which Is denied from It, forbid?
them to do so.
"In his proclamation of September 2,
1014, the eiovernor-Gemial of Belgium
made this statement: 'I am not asking
any ono to renounce his patriotic fed.
tug." The city of Tmirnal remains con
fident In this statement, which must be
considered its expressing tho feeling nf
his Imperial Mujesty, the German Km-
pot or, In whoso name the flevernor- Gen
oral was speaking. Consequently, In fol
lowing the call of honor and patriotism,
tho city remains raiinrui to a primary
duty of which a higher Gernmn ntlU'cr
cannot fall 10 realise tlio nobleness,"
A circumtntlal report from thn Minis
district says that thn entire main popu
lation over 17 was summoned to report
nt Gernmn headquarters nt S o'clock on
the morning of October '.'6. Thn priests,
prufvu", tendieir, lot nt olllclals, mem
bers uf the fond ciiinnilttco ..ml the pli)
Ically defectlvo weie dismissed, bit
1,200 men, composing "0 per cent, of i'u.
eligible males, both employed nnd un
employed, were selected, and Immedi
ately placed on cuttlo trucka nnd started
for Germany,
Being Ignorant of the purpose of the
summons, the men had assembled with
out clolhlnc for travelling nnd without
food, and relatives who hurried to the
station with food and clothing woro re
fused access to the men, the reports add.
The deportation Is proceeding at Oie
Continued on Second Page,
machine; they will never return to niengen jestcniay in iitty-tour names . , , . : .rhr " T f,,:v h;.7
Belgium. It Is this grinding up of a na- In the air with Germ in machines. In the - r V Lcit of the ".lS
lion piecemeal which Is tho most horrible region of Amiens, twentj-flvo miles be- rr ' i lien imiu lilnrierv coon.e?
feature of the situation. I hind the allied line. ., the Snmnir front, ' u 1 " r' "'. ' . U'H '"Rn "'nr
"Lastly. It must be remembered that luiing th: exceptionally large series a onnlngi. ' tl irYnr"Shi"rt lonisten
the Ihitente Allies can and will liberate of air fights Second Lieut. Guynemer . "1 .a.. ' '""".a.s,p.r'
f'i, . ... , t
' ' aVKaWaal'
1'j I
J
Archduke Charles Francis
Joseph, who may be named co
regent of Austria-Hungary.
AGED FRANCIS JOSEPH
MAY NAME COREGENT
Emperor of AustriA-Hungary
to Designate Archduke
Charles December 2.
Bcnuv, via London, Nov. 17. Ac
cording to the Vojcie Zcttunfi, nn un
continued despatch from Vienna says
that Emperor Francis Joseph of Autrls
Hungary will Issue on December I, the
occasion of the elxty-elghth anniversary
of the beginning of his reign, a procla
mation making Archduke Charles
Francis Joseph, heir apparent to the
throne, roregent.
Archduke Charles Francis Joseph, a
grandiiepheiv of the l.mpernr, became
heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary
by the assassination of Archduke Kran
tli Ferdinand previous to the outbreak ,
of Ihn ivnr. Thn ArrhrlllUn Phnrlo. h -
had command on the eastern front, espe-
daily In GaHda. and In tho Italian
ca.!.?..,V,?
Hungarian forces In the Carpathians and ,
along the Transylvania frontier.
54 AIR BATTLES ARE
FOUGHT IN ONE DAY
Germans Fly Far Over Allied
Lines (iuynemer Itrinjrs
Down 21st Machine.
17.-French ailators
brought duwn his twenty-first and Lieut
Hueitraux hl thlrti eiiih airplane. At
other points two more iiertnatl machines
were winged by camion,
French airplanes also flew across tho
horder iflto Luxunlmrg and dropped
bombs on lIsch-sur-Alzctte, near tho
!:.! "'XT "
Lieut. Hticrtcnux brought down his
thirteenth airplane and Second Lieut.
Ouinemer Ills twenty-first machine.
During the night several aerial bom
bardments weio tarried out, particu
larly upon the rallrn-iil station and
, factories nt Lvdi-sur-Ahctte, in Lux
1 enitiiirg, mid upon the reserve aviation
T V''"" "! ' . V """J '"'"
';'' f, . le.w.JV ' '
, ',,",,,'s "frl, ''rI-P.'d,
vr TT5 411 MTTP?' flVTR ATP1
' -7-0 M II14-il, '
French tlriiinu llnmlmril .Munich,
Then Cities to Venire.
Paiiis, Nov. 17. Franco Is ringing
with the exploit nf a French nilatnr who
has flown across the Alps nfter dropping
boinlio upon the stntlnn at Munich, tho
capital of Bavaria, Ho limited near
Venice, having flown 3.' miles m ono
day
Th aviator Is I'npt. do Beauchamp of
the French flying corps. He started at 8
o'clock thl morning ft inn some point not
made public by the War OHire In Its of
ficial nunoiiin ennnt. He Hew "In the dl
lection of Munkh," however, and Munich
In sou miles friMii tho holders or Alsace,
Sill miles finiu Verdun.
At noon the people nf Munich saw the
Flench machine far abnie them and n
few minutes Inter "several bomb" burst
around the railroad stntlou, Capt. de
Iteauchauip dri'iped the bombs In re
taliation for the bombing of the open
city of Amiens by the German airmen a
few days ago.
Then the French aviator bore off to
the south toward the crest of the Alps
reparoling Austria front Italy. He flew
ncioss the Trnl, then far above the
tieudi lines of Austriaus nnd Italians on
the Tienllno front und landed tlnnlly at
Santa Dona ill lll.ivi'. little, mrrn than
ten ml'es north e.f Venire. The tlmi of
lib land'ng U not i:lirn.
MONTH'S EXPORTS $238,474,010.
Nevt York's Inrrenae Over October.
tttlS, I Sll,tlS7,:tl I.
V'.xpnrta from New York In October
Amounted tn 1311,474,910, according la
statement from tin rotlse tnr'a nfflca y.
trrday. TIiIj was frti Increase of Ml,:;,
344 nyar the exports of October, HIS,
Imports were valued at tl,8!l,44, an
Inrrcuia of ll.,Jlt,70 ovsr thoia of Octo
ber. llri, The excess ot exports over Im
ports was IHI,tJ,:tS. Duties collected
Isit month totalise" ta.70S,lS1, aa eoraparad
,1th 18,611,117 In October, till.
HMI
P - . - M- ,' I
itti .... r. .vnm. . XX ,W.Xj 1
INNER FORTS OF
MONASTIR FALL
TOGEN. SARRAIL
Serbs and French Closing
In on Bulgar Stronghold.
BRITISH CAPTURE
RARAKLI VILLAGE!
Advance on Deniirhissap
Toward Strategic
Rnpel Defile.
BIG BATTLE NEAR
OX 150 MILE FRONT!
Violent Artillery Duel la
Reported at Centre of.
Macedonia Lines.
Pants, Nov. 17. Both wings of Oen.
Sarrall's army in Mnccdonla ro still
forging ahead, and violent cannonading
in the centre to-day mado It seem,
likely that a great offensive on Mm
whole ISO mile front Is about tn start.
In western Mnccdonla tho Serbs and
French closing In' on Monnstlr, tho
Bulgar stronghold, wrested from tho
Germans nnd Hulgars positions form
lug part of tho Inner defences of the)
city. "The Franco-Scrblin offcnslv
continue!) with full success." sayn to
i,.hi, i,'m,i, ,,nii.i . ,, .
S I' rdlCll Ofllt'lal btatomcnt.
Tll Bulgarians have been forced bade
another mile, and are now onlv tlirra
fro" Monastlr. Tho ntt.icks of
French und Busslans on tliclc
front anil of Serbs on their left Hank
havo forced them to glvo up their lino nit
tn viro finvr mid retreat to the Bist
ritsa and hill UTS.
To-day the Serbs took 300 more prls.
oners, making their total In tho last wcekl
0,900, of whom 1,000 aro Germans. Jn
the week the Serbians have taken elcht
l heavy and sixteen field guns. The Scib
l.iii omolal atntcmetit from Salonlca fol
lows :
"Ve-terday there was ilolcnt lighting,
which was favnrablo to us despltn tho
fog and a snowstorm, All enemy nt
tempts to recapturo lost position by
counter attacks failed completely. Tho
I Bulgarians retired on tho Itlver Bistritsa,
and hill 137S. Wo havo taken 300 nddl
I tlonal prisoners."
flio Serbs, who arc led by their Crown
, 4,'r'"c1p-1 "rLTh.l"! "n,r.J,runl'.h.,
llrllUh
In eastern Macedonia the British, con
tlnulng steadily tho new ofTenslve they
started yesterday, have taken the illlago
of Barakll. This village Is a lltMo less
(linn inn iiiue.-t suiiutlMKl
In the region of Lako IVilran a
j ilolent artillery duel took place.
Victory 011 the Cerna,
I In the region of the Cerna Blvsr
I ti e Finnro-Serbian offensive continue
with full success. On tho right bank
uf the river thn Serbians bale made
I considerable progress in the direction
I nf Grurilslite, while In the Cerna
' bend one of the divisions. In the
1 course uf a ttubbnrn fight, carded 11
crest to tho north of lien. In this
I sector the enemy's counter attacks
iiete repulsed,
' Further west tho Franco-Serbian
forces mndn headway In tho direction
1 of Ynrashok and attacked the Monns.
tery Hill, which they occupied after
fighting which, cost tho enemy heavy
Insses.
In the region northeast of Kennll
our cavalry captured Negotarln (Net;
orhant?). In tho courss of various lights on
November IS we made on this front
400 prisoners and captured threo ml
tralllcusea nnd a howitzer of mo milli
meters. The German Ilrpnrt.
To-day's German olllclnl btatemeiit
1 sas that attacks by thn Sarrall army
I were repulsed. It inentlnns nttfickn be-
liveeu Mnllk nnd Picsbn lakes, In a
region approximately west nf Monnstlr.
The German btatemeiit follows:
Macedonian Front Betneen Malik
and Presba lakes, on the western edge
of tho Monnstlr plain and on thn
heights northeast of Chugel, In thn
bend of tho Ceina Blvcr, renewed at
tacks by Untento tumps in strong
force wcro repulsed.
PUSH INTO RUMANIA.
Falkenhn n'a Troops Advance Prom
Ponthllla to 1'lr.ln.
I.o:.pos, Nov. 17. The Teuton wdf,.sj
ptisl " dcei r Into north'T'i LumiliM
tn-di.y. ConVint!;' roif'nvd nnd sup-
piled wtli 1, .exit nuiv.birs or ,:e.ivy kuhi,
German.i nl.d Au .dans urn ndvnnolnit
relentlessly toward the Interior of ths
Balkan kingdom.
Breaking down the stubborn resist
ance of Bumanlan and ltuiinlnn trm-py.
Von Falkmihnyn's armies linvn advanced
so far along thn Trans) U.iuUn A1W
front that t tevoral places thcy nr
practically through the foothills on tin
Rumanian sldn and on tho plain. On a
front ot 100 mile, four big armies h.iva
I lllll itl ill I l'3 UIIIIUUIII.V(1 I'siurun V.
Continue Drive.
coiiim4 m;
Tf nTiiiiiMMM ,. r, . . :, ., c ,
