Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
16 PAGES
PHOENI, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 18, 1916
16 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 183
OF CA
E 1 S!
MILE
LONG
oc
PARADE
DEUTSCHLAND SINKS
TUG, COMES BACK TO
BERTH FOR REPAIRS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Nov. 17.
The collision which caused the mer
chant submarine Ueiuschlanil to aban
don her return voyage to Germany al
most at its outset early today, when a
convoying tus, the T. A. Scott, Jr., was
sunk with a crew of five men, was the
subject of federal investigation this af
ternoon. The United States inspectors
of
steam vessels, headed by Captain W. E.
Withey, heard through witnesses of the
conditions under which the submarine.
Flipping out of the harbor in the dark
ness so that she might submerge in
neutral waters before daybreak, ran
down the tug which was acting as her
protector off Race Rock, just outside
this port. The testimony came from
Captain Paul Koenig of the Deutsch-
land; from K. W. Krapohl, his chief of-
ficer, and from Hans Kleese, his chief
engineer. It wag given in secret, hut
it became known through statements
outside the chamber that the collision
was an accident.
Survivors who would discuss the
matter were agreed that it was due to
a combination of swift currents, which
carried the tug off its course rind
across the bow of the submarine and to
the semi -darkness, which was to be the
Deutsehland's medium of safety but
which instead prevented ready obser
vations of the .danger ahead. Captain
Koenig would say only to questioners:
"It's a terrible thing to lose those
good men. I feel it deeply. "You must
excuse me."
Before the inspectors fixed blame for
the loss of the Scott and her crew,
they will hear the testimony of Cap
tain Frederick Hinsch, an official of the
Eastern forwarding company, who was
the only survivor on the tug. Captain
Hinsch was thrown from the deck
house of the tug, on which he was
standing. Into the rushing water of the
Pace, where he was rescued almost
exhausted, by the crew of the tug Cas
sie, following behind. Captain Hinsch
was unconscious after the accident,
and tonight still was so exhausted thaf
it might le several days before he will
be able to testify.
Captain Harry Eaker of the Caa.sie
and some of his crew also will be called
to tell f their observations.
The Deutsehland's return will be de
layed only a few days, estimated var
iously from two days to a week, by
the damages which she sustained .and
not at all by the fact that inquiry is
being made.
Kxamination of her bow today
showed that three plates had been
TO BE ASKED IN THE FUTURE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. IT. Some of
the suggestions the railroads will
make to the Joint congressional In
vesti?ating committee with iegard to I
hearings on transportation questions I
I. ere Monday were outlined touay at
a ppecial meeting of the National
Council of the L'nited States Chamber
if Commerce by A. P. Thoni, counsel
for the railway executives' advisory
committee.
lr. Ttium said the railroads would
sk for:
A federal incorporation law for in
terstate railroads; I
A measure enlarging the Interstate
commerce commission:
Amendment of the act to regulate
commerce so as to reduce to sixty
(lays the present period of ten months
during wiiich the I. C.C. may holj
a filed raaroad. tailff in suspension;
lind, '
Authority to the commission to fix
minimum as well as maximum rates.
The national council has given a.
place to representatives of the laii
load brotherhoods on its program for
the afternoon, Uit the secretary an
nounced that te!egr;rms had been re
ceived from W. S. Carter of the
firemen and L. E. Shepplird, acting
lor Grand Chief Garretson of the
conductors, saying they could not ar
range to be present. No replies to
invitations had been received, he said, '
from the other two brotherhooJ I
leaders. j
Mr. Thorn's presentation of the rail-.'
Way suggestions was preceded by !
speeches w hich brought the railroad ;
eight-hour law squarely before tie
council. Representative Adamson,
author of the law, declared he be- j
lieved it constitutional but thought j
coneress would enact supplementary
legislation before the congressional
investigating committee
rstorts to
ii'nk:
impossible another situation
28 confronted the nation when
8Uch
the brotherhoods threatened to stril-e.
Joint Commission Appears
To Be Deadlocked, Adjourns
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
ThVS-AIrU- jJ.infcom!
Kion adjourned today until Monday,
with the conference In what is re-
garded us a deadlock. When the meet-
in;;s are resumed next week it is ex-
pected the representatives of the two
governments will be fully Informed an
to the wishes of their chiefs.
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexl-
can commission, successfully interfer-
red today with the adoption of a plan
for border control. Ignacio Ponillas
and Alberto J. Puni, the other mem-
hers, were ready to agree to a plan
proposed by tho Americans, but the
stove in to a degree described by some
as "a hole" and others as "a dent."
Her stem was twisted to starboard, but
the general structure of the subarine
was said to be firnilv in place, not
withstanding t lie force of the impact
which sent the tug to the bottom with
in a few minutes.
The men of the Scott had no chance
for their lives. They went down im
prisoned in the pilot house, engine
room or galley, and undoubtedly were
drowned at their posts. It is doubtful
if their bodies ever will be recovered,
although the T. A. Scott Wrecking
company, which owned the tug, was
considering tonight an effort to raise
the craft to obtain the bodies.
The DeHtscliland mid moved quietly
out of her protected pier early this
morning and slipped down the Thames
river to the sound, under dou
hie convoy
of tugs. She carried a cargo estimated
at about I2.000.00o, composed princi
pally of rubber and metals which tier
many needs in the making of munitions
of war.
To starboard was the T. A. Scott. Jr.,
slightly advanced and acting as pilot.
The submarine, moving on the surface
at a speed of about ten knots, was
about 600 yards behind, and half a mile
astern the tug Cassie followed an ad
ditional protection. 'Reaching the Race
the several vessels slowed down to ,
i-rnu th xirlvin!- currents of the lias-
sage at slower speed.
Tk. ,.-imv ihrniioh tha
Race, and one of the rips apparently c L,ttle fctivity 'B reporte-l on the
caught the tug unawares. This ap- smtime front The two latest offi
peared to be so to Captain Koenig who, communiques from Pf.rls repot t
with Chief Officer Krapohl was un the I " infantry activity. London claims
Deutsehland's deck. In the darkness, the extension r.t the British front
the Scott was forced mto the subma- ! the Anew cast or Beaucour .
rine's course. The collision resuHed . Herlin records the repulse of Britiili
without discovery by any one of Its im-! ntta on the northern part of the
minence, and the tug sank almost at 'r'lnt- , ,
once Except for th- cnoture ly the Rns-
The Deutschland was able to return n "t several heights near Jacob-
to her dock unassisted and Iniacti"1'- l Kimpolung. Bukowina.
could have continued her voyage with- nither Petrogrr.d nor Berlin report
out great danger, according to one of- any feat activity on the eastern
ficial who saw her today, as her dam- front.
ago did not extend t-low the waver ' I" Dobrudia apparently there lias
line. Her repairs and her stav in portir""?n 'lc change. Beilin s ate that
are surrounded by the ramp secrecy the Rumanian artlllerv fire In the
that marked the unloading of bV car- region of Silestriu on he Danube be-
ko from Germany and t.e wiling f!
the careo which she is to take back. I
It was leerned authoritatively today
that the former was valued in excesH
of the 110.000.000 set by Captain Koen- !
ig. This amount. It was said, would j
barely cover the value of the selr
eurilies which she carried. Contrary to'
reports, the Deutschland will take no
fold to Germany.
E DEMANDS .
Mr. Adamson baid that he was op
posed to government ow perch ip of
railroads and to the alxdisliment or
curtailment of the powers of state
railroad commissions by putting all
rate making power in the hands of
the Interstate commerce commission.
President Charles R. Van Hise of
the University of Wisconsin,' said tho
count rv had no assurance that tvj
years from now when a congress is to
be elec ted or four years distant when
a president is to be elected, tfcc
brotherhoods will not again come to
congress with a demand for time and
a half for overtime and threaten to
strike if the demands are not met.
Mr. Thorn discussed the history of
American railroads and their regu
lation adding:
"The impres,nn today is that th
rii'-n who manage the railroads can
only be kept in the ranks and in
step by the piick of the bayonet.
Has the time come for a ( hange in
the conception of the Americar peo
ple on that subject? If it has not
come, if there is no possibility of
(Continued cn Page Nine)
,
I KILLED BECAUSE HE
1 WAS AN AMERICAN.
I Republican A. P. Leased Wire. I
! ST. LOUIS, Nov. 17. The state I
I deoartment in a telegram sent to I
I Congressman Dyer today con- I
I firmed the killing of Dr. H. C. 1
I Fisher, a former St. Louisan, at '
I Santa . Rosalia. Mex., November 2, !
! by Villa bandits. I
I Dr. Fisher had practiced medi- i
I cine in Mexico 30 years. I
I Information received in private I
I advicef by William Fisher, a I
I brother, is that the bandits de- I
1 manHed anri received &1.000 on m t
' i promise to sparo Dr. Fisher's life j
i nd afterward killed him, "because
I he was an American." I
D
objections of their chairman were suf-
"f lt further dela ad
"ebate. No agreement was reached. :
Secretary of the Interior Lino, chnir-
man of the American commission, ex-
pects to be In Washington before to-
morrow night and to place before Pres-
Went Wilson all the facts In the case.,
It is understood that Mr. Cabrera has
sent to General Carranza a paraphrase
of the debute so far as it has pro-
cceded.
In the meantime, Mr. Cabrera ex-
pects to confer with representatives of
American mining Interests of Mexico
in New York. .
Bucharest Almost
In the Grasp of
Teuton Invaders
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The advance of the Austro-Hungnr-ians
continues steadily, and Campu
lung, SO miles northwest of Buchar
est, the Rumanian capitol, is almost
within the grasp of the invaders.
Battles are taking place within a
few miles of Campulung, and Petro- ; Summarizing the remarkable growth of the dairy business in not only
srad says the forces of General von . Salt River valley, but the entire state, the livestock parade, which was the
Falkenhayn have taken Liresht, about ! chief feature of yesterday' state fair program, opened the eyes of the multi
live miles northwest of Campulung. jtude to this industry and marked the passage of another record. That record
An attack against the Rumanian po- wa, ,et last year, when nearly 400 head of registered cattle were led before
sltions at Albechti, three miles north- the grandstand.
west of Campulung, was repulsed. Yesterday's parade contained 460 head of cattle. It was a mile long, with
More than 2.100 prisoners were many of the animals moving in pairs. It took them one hour to pass in review
taken by the Au.-tro-Hnngartans In I For variety of types, class afid general fnakeup, the parade was most
the latest operations Ml W'allarTlia, ...k. Judo Van Palt. who h kun Mtrom.l hmv ff,inn rihhnn. on
1,500 alone being captured in engage
ments south of the Rothenthum pass
and towards Rimhik. West of Fre
deaU the invaoers, ISerlin says, broke
the Rumanian positions. Rungul
mountain in Moldavia, east of Ked
zivnsarhely, has been carried by Ba
varian troops.
The town of Rarakli, .in the right
bank of the Struma river, and on ih-
eastern erd of the Macedonian front,
has been occupied by British troops.
On tile western Macedonian front in
the Monastir Tegion. Berlin pepor's.
all attacks of the entente forces. Wire
repulsed.
Tho Franco-Serbian offensive in the
region of the Cerna river. Paris
states, continues with Fiiccess. Sev-
P"it'ons were occupied bv the
"- .- m; ..
l'CK. were lepui.-ieo
The Franco-
Serbians captured 400 prisoners on
.Mivemuer lii. i-aris auus. -
low TcberiiavodX- br ' Increased.
XMAS
PRESENT
FOR THE
SOLDIERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Nov. 17. Gen. Persh
; Ing, In command of the American
' force in Mexico, today si nt the fal
lowing message to tie Ameii un K -d
Cross here in iepiy to an inquiry
to what the troops would like for
Christinas:
"Many thanks for kind offer o
contribute Xmas boxes to the troops
of this command. Men now well
slllinliert with ivceysnries. but toink
pipes, tobacco, cigarette papers, ciiiur
I files, match' boxes, po ket knives,
'small cans of jam, stick andie,
writirg materials, novels and haniP
ker'hiefs would be urceplalde."
o
CARRANZA TAKES VACATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
CCACTITI.AN, Mex.. Nov. 17. Gen
era! Carrnnza, who Is on his way
to Queretaro, ended lis first day's
ride here tonight He is taking the
journey as a va"ntion from govern
mental affairs. His next stop prob
ably will be ut Tula, in the state
of Hidalgo.
TODAY'S FAIR PROGRAM
Automobile Day
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF EVENTS' ON TODAY'S CARD AT THE FAIR
(NOTE: The schedule will be adhered to as closely as possible, and to
insure a clean-cut program, the co-operation of the public is asked in keep
ting the tracks clear after the hour mentioned.)
Sart. Event. Finish.
1:00 Five-mil Ford heat 1:15
1:25 Ten-mile city championship for trophy 1:45
1:50 Five-mile Ford heat 2:00
2:05 Five-mile Ford final ; 2:15
2:30 100-mile race 4:30
4:45 Mile speed exhibition by city fira truck 4:50
The track will be open for speed trials and practice by all cars entered
in the afternoon's races between 7 and 8 this morning.
At 11 o'clock all supply trucks must be off the mile and half-mils tracks
and either returned to town or else parked in the infield.
At 11:30 all con-pet ing cars will re pert to Starter Mollingsworth at the
tape for final instructions. The technical committee will make its report at
this time. '
At 12:30 gates leading from the fair grounds proper into the mile track
and the enclosure will be locked, and under no circumstances will anybody be
allowed to drive across after this hour. Timers, checkers and other officials
will be in their places by noon, in order to prepare for tho contest.
Spectators are advised to be in their seats by noon, in order that there
may be no passing about or confusion just prior to the start of the first
race at 1 o'clock sharp. Safety and sanity first is the word.
I
TO BE CONTESTED SUNDAY
ii i , , i . ... .
For a purse of $1,000 which has been i games for Sunday. All of the wild
hung up by the Arizona State Fair west performers who have been work-
commission to induce the auto polo
teams to remain over ssunuav, the
champions of Great Dritain will play
the American ch.unplons for the world's
championship in a regulation contest,
The fence between the two race tracks
at the fair grounds will be torn out fn
allow the players ample room in which
to play a regular game
This will be the banner attraction on
the program that has been arranged for
Sunday afternoon.
This will be the last game of auto
nolo to be ril'ived hpra ua the, tonvnu
Unua f,.f lha coat hl.i.wlnu IV, In!
addition to the big auto polo contest
there will be a numDer of additional
cowboy sports, as many of the broncho
butters have made sido bets on the
LIVESTOCK EXHIBITS SHOW
1
NSE GROWTH IF DAIRY
BUSINESS
the milk and beef producers this veek, unreservedly places the Arizona cat
tle show ahead of any he has judged in the United States and Canada, and he
has officiated at hundreds of such shows.
Superintendent E. F. Van Kirk and his secretary, Ben Ridge, were the only
assistants Van Pelt had in his judging. Boys from the University of Arizona at
Tucson and the normal school at Tempe,
es in placing the ribbons, but the long record had to be kept by Ridpe.
The livestock department is an insti- .
ttHlon by itself. During the week, Van The McMinn herd from the southside
Kirk and the men working in the de-
partment as caretukers, have had their !
own mess, wun two cooks, i ne Kitcn
en and dining tents are in the north
end of the grounds, where space has
been devoted to the quarteis for the
help. On Thursday, the department
entertained the fair commission and I
Judge Van Pelt at dinner, and it wan a!
regular old fashioned cow camp meal.
too.,
"If we could have got boys enough
to lead all our stock, we could have
put on a much bisger show," said Van
Kirk, when discussing the parade yes
terday. "It is quite an art to lead u
registered bull around a mile track, and
a lot of the youngsters we had engaged
to take art in the parade backed out
when they saw some of the hefty cut
tle they would have to lead.
"I am grateful to all the exhibitors 1
for the cooperation they save me "in cordance 'with the usual custom, de
makin the 11 livest.ck parade the clined to permit the use of his name,
lonL'at and best in (hp lilstnrv cif tho said tonight:
fair. The department set out to prove'
that dairy ing was one of the industries
of this state that would be demanding
a lot of public attention, and i believe
we have succeeded." I
(Hit of the scores of exhibitors In the
livHlock department, the following '
wtre among the iKmicipama in the iu,ns could occur over the preifn sub
parade: .- j marine campaign.
B. A. Packard of Douglas with a herd
of 35 Hereford.
Cowden and Sons of Midland, Texas,
were among the out of the state ex
hibitors. They had a herd of Aberdeen
Angus, which took prizes among the
beef type contestants.
The liartlett-Hcard ranch has n
small, but notable, display of short
horns and Durhams.
The Schroder farms of California
came in with a herd of Dutch Belted
cattle that was of much interest
William W. Bradshaw put in a herd
of 30 registered Jerseys.
John It. Bradshow, who has been
specializing on Holsteins, had an ad
mirable exhibit of that breed, num
I ering about 35 head.
Grimes Brothers, whose ranch is east
of the city, had a herd of 15. including
the prize butter fat cow of the entire
lint.
Appleby of Mesa, took the prize for
the best milk" herd, with four prize Jer
seys, and these cows were all in the pa
rade. P.ukey of Mesa wast also represented
with 5 fine Jerseys.
Frank Reed Sanders was another
Mesa cattleman, who had fifty varied
breeds, including Holsteins, Jerseys
and Guernseys.
ing at the fair during the week will be
on hand ror the Big doings Sunday
afternoon.
I In addition to the regular acts thai
have been offered as a part of the
I free program during the week, Florence
j Mreeter, who is admitted to be the
cleverest high diver in America, will
be present and perfoim a number of
new high and fancy dives. Then there'll
be the Pabe.t Kids, Dare Devil Mc
Kenzie, the balloon act. a wrestling
mutch for the championship of the Pa
cific coast, acrobats and a score ol
other equally attractive offerings.
The big program will 'begin sharply
at 1 o'clock when the gates at the
Arizona state fair Rrovtmls will lie
thrown open. .
IK WILE STATE
worked in cooperation with the judg
was reuresented in the oarude with a
rood showing.
Moore of the McKee company hi-re
in Phoenix and K. 11. Morrison of
Chandler, entered liolsteina and the
latter took a prize on heifers.
Breeds were divided about at follows:
Jerseys, 125 head; short horns. 12!
head; Guernseys, 35 head; Dutch belt-
ed, 35 head, beside a number of other
prominent breeds.
TEUTONS CLAIM
NO WARNING GIVEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 17. Teutonic
diplomats here do not credit the Lon
don report that Germany has been
warned verbally that President Wil
son's patience is "on the verge of ex-
haustion." One of these, who, in ac
"l know-. positively that no such
warning has been given. There is no
reason for any such warning. Ger
many has absolutely no Intention of
violating any of the pledges given the
I'nited States."
The Teutonic diplomats say they are
unable to see how a ruuture of rela-
VISIT AROUSES INTEREST
flepublfcar A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 17. The re
ported visit of Biiron Burian, the Aus-tro-llungarian
foreign minister, to
Chancellor von Bethmann-oHllweg at
Berlin for n full discussion of sub
marine warfare and its effect on the
Crated States aroused interest here,
J'uf c";'.,d he confirmed from of-
ficial dispatches.
LORD ROBERT GECIL SAYS IT
ES UP TO THE U. S. TO STOP
THE DEPOfflGOE BELGIANS
rRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wlrel
LONDON. Nov. 17. In a statement
made to the Associated Press today.
Lord Robert Cecil, minister of war
trade, uttered a vigorous protest
against Germany's deportation of Bel
gians and declared that the people of
! ranee and Lngland, no less than the
people of Belgium, "hope that Ameri
can public opinion will show itself not
only in a few days or weeks of pro
tests and criticisms, but in steady pres
sure upon the invaders of Belgium to
conduct the war against the soldiers
of the allies in the trenches and not
against the helpless civilians whom
they have In their power."
Lord Robert reviewed the measures
taken by the entente allies to provide
relief for the Belgians and character
ized as "a lie" what he termed Ger
many's attempt to Justify its action by
saying that England was responsible
for unemployment In Belgium.
"Three times during the past year,"
Lord Robert continued, "we have pro
posed to the Germans a definite scheme
whereby the exports of Belgian manu
facturers and even imports of raw ma
terial might be made free, under the
control of the Belgian relief commis
sion, and that the commission might
control all the funds arising out of the
trade. To none of these proposals have
we had n reply. The Germans have
Extraordinary Militia Hike
Self Government
Given to Polish
Jews by Germany
TR-pMhlican A. P. Leased Wire
IiliKLIN, Nov. 17. General von Bes
eler, governor general of Russian Po
iand, lias issued an order at Warsaw
in regard to the organization of a
Jewish religious body in Poland, by
which self government is t,ivon to the
Polish Jews. '
"Under Russian rule the Jaws In
Poland, as in all Russia, lived almost
without a religious organization," says
the Overseas Agency in describing the
new order. "The hostility of the Rus
sian authorities against the Jews found
expression in well known laws and in
uninterrupted persecutions and oppres
sion of the Ji:Wish community, as well
as in the fact that a religious body to
which 14 per cent of the population of
Poland belongs,, - was deprived of all
Thirty Thousand ,
Belgians Taken
Away to Germany
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Nov. 17. Thrity thou
sand Belgian ilready have been de
ported to Germany, according to in
formation received here through of
ficial channels. Reports from the same
sources say that the Germans plan "j
take pome .100,000 judged from the or
der 'ssued in a number of cities foi
all nalcs over 17 to report for in
spection. The municipal council of Touinat
has formally declined to aeceed to the
German demand, the report says, pro
testing that hitherto it had acquiesced
to all German orders. General Hopffer
tliereupin imposed a fine of 200.000
marks, it is added, for the refusal of!
the council to furnish a list of male
inhabitants, w ich a further fine of 20,
0ou marks daily as long as the coun
cil refused to give the list.
A circumstantial report from the
.Vtoiis district sr.ys that the entire
main population over 17 was sum
moned to report at German headquar
ters at S o'clock on the morning of
Octoler 20. The priests, professors,
teachers, local officials, members of
the food commission and the physi
cally" defective were dismissed, but, it
is adied. 1.200 men, composing 20 per
cent of the eligible males, both em
ployed and unemployed, were selected
and immediately placed on cattle
truckr and started for Germany. Be
ing ignorant of the purpose of sum
mons. t!ie men had assembled with
out clothing for traveling and without
food unci relatives who hurried to the
station with food and clothing1 were
refurtd access to the men, the reports
add.
o
TO FORM DIET SQUAD .
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 17 John Dill Rob
ertson, health commissioner, who has
started a high cost of living invea
tief.tion with a view to showing
Chicagoans how to live on forty
cents a day, is" planning a "diet
squad" to prove his contention that
forty cents a day is sufficient for
good and wholesome food. It is ex
pected the plan will be adopted at a
meeting of officials tomorrow.
Dr. Robertson purposes selecting
twelve persons from bis department
who shall be fed for two weeks on
a diet recommended by him. Weight
and geneial conditions of the sub
jects are to- be taken before dietirg
begins and after it is ended. Six
men and six women will comprise
the "diet squad." A room at Uie
health department will be utilized and
food and a cook will be provided by
the department.
"There is no reason why people
should not live on forty cents n
day, and I purpose demonstrating the
fact," the doctor explained. "I once
fed mv family of eight for five days
on J3.S1."
consistently refused to do anything to
assist the relief commission and Bel
gian industry. Instead, they have ex
acted forty million francs a month
from Belgium, requisitioned every kind
of machinery and raw material, seized
the funds of the national bank, and re
stricted exports.
"They have drained Belgium dry ind
stripped her bare, and we all know
this policy was deliberately calculated
to create maximum amount of unem
ployment in order that when the prop
er moment arrived their slave - raid
might begin. '
"Further, the Germans justify their
action on the ground that the unem
ployment they themselves created l,al.wno uia not leave w,ln ""e ebD
. lilt? Ullf'll-
become so bad as to overstrain the re
sources of the, poor relief. This is the
most impudent thing even Germany
has said since the war began.
"Lastly, it must be remembered that
the allies can and will liberate Bel
gians from starvation. But they can
not protect the Belgians from slavery:
they cannot insure that when Belgium
is liberated it will be a nation and not
a desert. It is only the neutrals who
can do this by the exercise of their
public opinion."
Lord Robert concluded with an ex
pression of hope that the pressure of
American public opinion would bring
about this result.
I (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Nov. 17.
Two events attracted much attention
today -in the "brown" and "white" ar
my maneuvers in this district. The
first was the spectacular entry into
San Benito, 13 nt!es north of Browns
ville, by the "brown" or invading
forces, driving the defending "white'
brigade before them. The second was
an extr.iordiniry thirty-mile march
by a brigade of artillery ar.d a pro
visional regiment of cavalry Trom
Llano Grande to Harlingen, reinforcing-
the "white" Hrigade under Colonel
:. L Fullard. which Is defending the
United States from a foreign invasion
of the "browns."
This reinforcement was a complete
surprise to the "browns" forces and
tends to make more, difficult driving
back of the advanced "white" lirigade.
Tonight the "invading" division
uniform organization. Only the for
mation of organizations of isolated par
ishes was allowed and the union of
parishes into a large organization was
forbidden," says the news agency."
MEXICO STIRRED
nioio
Emu nm
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Nov. 17. Prior
to leaving Chihuahua City to take the
field against Villa, General Trevino
made a statement today to tho Asso
ciated Press in which he said the time
for defensive measures against the
bandits had passed and a vigorous of
fensive was necessary.
"The state capitol of Chihuahua lias
been efficiently fortified and with the
garrison I have left under the com
mand of General Gonzales Cuellar, It
Is able to repulse even a strong enemy
force," General Trevino said.
"Decisive results could not he ob
tained by sending small detachments
againBt the bandits," he continued,
"and it is for that reason that I am
starting an offensive under my per
sonal command. My division is com
posed of several thousand men of the
three arms, cavalry, artillery and In
fantry W'th plenty of ammunition, and
I am taking the field with the firm
resolution of delivering this region
from the elements that have defied
divine and human laws."
The vanguard of General Trevino's
column has reached Santa Rosalia,
which will be his base of operations.
He will move south toward the Du
rango border, where Villa is known to
be. General Murguia, who is now
moving on Jiminez, north from Esca
lon, will co-operate with General
Trevino. , ,
Chihuahua City Is again in a state
of nervousness because of the departure
of the troops and the reappearance of
the Villa scare. But General Trevino's
statement is expected to restore confi
dence. General Cuellar also says he
would defend the city to the last.
In taking the field. General Trevino
is giving up a mission of high im
portance to a foreign country, which
had been offered him.
General Trevino's announcement that
he would take the field against Villa
in person at the head of his division,
caused much surprise and considerable
alarm here among Americans and Mex
icans who have interests in Chihuahua
City. They say the departure of Gen
eral Trevino and his forces from Chi
huahua City, leaving only a small force
,to defend the city, is practically an
evacuation of the state capitol.
A prominent Mexican resident of
Chihuahua City arrived here today,
having been warned by one of his
friends In General Trevino's garrison
to leave before the military trains
started going south with the Carranza
troops on board. Five trains of twenty-five
cars each had left for the south
when the train on which he came to
the border left the state capitol. Gen
eral Trevino was preparing to leave in
his private car when the train left for
the border.
All of the field artillery and prac
tically all of the ammunition from the
Chihuahua City garrison were loaded
on cars to be taken by the Trevino
column, the refugee said, and he ad
ded that the fear of an attack by Villa
and his bandits was stronger in Chi
huahua City when he left than it bad
leen at any time since September 16,
the date Villa entered the citv.
American Mills Fired.
EL TASO, Nov. 17. Two Chinese
refugees from Parral arrived in Chi
huahua City yesterday, a refugee from
that city who arrived here today said.
These Chinese, he said, reported having
seen a big fire in the immediate vi
cinity of the Palmillo mills belonging
to the Alvado Mining company, an
American corporation, officials of the
company here are making an effort to
confirm the report of the fire at the
company's mills after the Villa bandits
occupied Parral.
These Chinese reported Villa in pos
session of a number of American-made
machine guns, which looked as if they
were new and also a quantity of new
rifles.
Rumors in circulation here sav five
of the American residents of Parral,
. .... . ... . .
(Continued on Tage Five)
D
HUGHES LEADING
IN MINNESOTA I
I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire. I
St Paul. Nov. 1:. A mistake in I
in the tabulation of the Minnesota I
votes in the presidential race early
today by which President Wilson I
was placed within less than a
hundred votes of Mr. Hughes, was j
discovered this afternoon. The lead
is changed again to Mr, Hughes' I
lavor by 414 votes. I
I
camped Just north of San Benito and
the "defending" brigade, its reinforce
ment of artillery and cavalry a biiort
distance behind, halted one and a half
miles south of Harlingen, on Arroxm
Colorado.
Activities tonight consisted of out
povrt nnd cavalry patrols. Tho "brown"
cavalry which was first to enter San
Benito today faced a "sweeping ma
chine gune fire," and attempted a left
flank move on the "white" battalion
The outpost battalion retired in pood
order, however, theoretically destroy,
ing a bridge over a wide canal behind
them, thus delayng the crossing by
the "enemy."
Soldier Killed.
EL PASO. Nov. 17. Private Wil
liam Carr. of company H, ISth Penn
sylvania infantry, was shot and al
most instantly killed tonight in a dis
pute with Private R. J. Anderson, of
battery A. Fifth U. S. field artillerv,
who was arrested by provost guards
and placed In Jail on the charge of
murder. The dispute lending to the
tragedy took place in a street in the
Mexican quarter.
