THE DONALDSONVILLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLVI. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER, 18, 1916. NUMBER 16.
44 0NFAWS OF THE PIIOTOPLA 4!S
ming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
Next Week's Bill at the Grand.
Sunday-Irene Fenwick in "The
Child of Destiny."
Monday - Marguerite Clark in
"Silks and Satins."
Tuesday-William Farnum in "The
End of the Trail."
Wednesday-Lou Tellegen in "The
Victory of Conscience.
Thursday-Sessue Hayakawa in
"The Honorable Friend."
Friday-Edith Storey in "The Shop
Giturl." am Eleventh episode of
"Peg o' the Ring," comedy, cartoon
and Pathe News.
"The Child of Destiny."
Irene Fenwick, gifted and charm
ing dramatic artiste, who has the dis
tinction of having appeared in the
stellar roles of three Broadway stage
successes in succession, will be seen
at the Grand Theatre Sunday in "The
Child of Destiny," a five-part Metro
wonderplay. Miss Fenwick is young
and so possessed of that wonderful
quality known as personal magnetism
that her name over the entrance to a
Broadway theatre is sufficient to
crowd the house. Her abilities as an
actress of finish as well as power are
known wherever the stage is known.
"The Child of Destiny" was di
rected by the famous Will Nigh,
who produced "The Yellow Streak"
and "The Kiss of Hate." The story
pits a mother against a daughter and
deals with high life. It's action
preaches a wonderful sermon on di
vorce.
"Silks and Satins."
It is a delightful role Marguerite
Clark has in "Silks and Satins," which
comes to the Grand Monday. Felicite,
of a day that is past, by her father
engaged to wed not Lhe man she
loves. Before the wedding the death
of the father throws the young wo
man under the guardianship of an un
cle and into the same home with a
drunken cousin, whose suit takes a
forceful turn. It is to Jacques Des
mond, the cavalier, her thoughts turn; C
it is to Jacques that Felix, her fiance, C
also turns to rescue Felicite. Jacques S
gets Felicite from her uncle's house at
the point of his sword-and it is to F
her bold knight the young woman h
elects to give her hand.
There are stirring scenes following s
the arrival of Felix at the home of the v
Marquis, where the cavalier swings his h
d1in approved d'Artagnan man
`.; iandthere are, too, scenes that '
amuse when the tall fellow and his f
diminutive companion in male attire p
'.arrive at the inn, to which the good "
knot-tying monk is brought. n
______L
"The End of the Trail."
William Farnum once more brings
into play his marvelous strength' in
the William Fox picture of the great
northwest, "The End of the Trail,"
which will be shown at the Grand
Tuesday. In this production Far
hum acts the part of Jules Le Clerq,
a French Canadian, factor in a Hud
son's Bay trading post.
Le Clerq has fallen in love with a
woman whose husband has seized her
and carried her away to a lonely life
in the forests. Overcome by his bru
tality, she leaves his house, and later
learns that her husband has been left
as dead by a treacherous Indian guide.
She marries Le Clerq.
But Devil Cabot is not dead. He has
been revived and nursed back to
health by prospectors. In a wild mo
ment he shoots those who have aided
him, and making his escape, starts
back to find his wife. He arrives at
the trading post just after a baby has
been born to Adrienne and Jules.
He enters their house, binds Jules,
and seizes Adrienne. Off into the
deep woods he goes again, taking with
him his wife and her child.
For a few months the poor girl lives
sith him, in utter terror lest he work
wome harm to herself or her baby.
Then she sees her opportunity. She
etrikes Devil across the head with a
heavy implement, and he falls to the
Boor in a heap. She thinks he is dead,
and runs out into the snow. At the
imr she meets Jules Le Clerq, who
ku been searching frantically for her.
Jules takes the frail woman in his
mans and carries her back to his house.
lit the excitement has been too
iach for her. She dies after the long
P, and leaves her little girl in
es' care.
The first itdrband meets justice la
liratthe hands of Le Clerq, when he
tosts the daughter in a saloon. A
bgle ensues between the factor
end Cabot, and Le Clerq is victorious.
"The Victory of Conscience."
Lou Tellegen, the famous romantic
ator, will be seen at the Grand Wed
iday in the Lasky production of
he Victory of Conscience." He
WIll be supported by Cleo Ridgley
aan all-star Lasky cast. This is
first photodramatic production in
ch Lou Tellegen has appeared
dice his marriage to the famous Ger
4di50 Farra~r
Asthe young Count who has passed
sinner to saint, Mr. Tellegen
l bseen at his best, and he and I
Dexter present one of the most
ing duel scenes ever witnessed on
Screen. Mr. Tellegen has the dis- I
ton of being the champion
dsinan of Europe, and Mr. Dexter
Well known for his prowess with the
1any scenes, taken in a 1
hospital during the present
ere realistic in the extreme, and
lpervised by a wounded French
'now convalescing in the United
Story has to do with the spirit
ind mental awakening of Louis, I
de Tavannes. The Count and I
ndsome, harum scarum corn
Price Dimitri Karitzin, steal I
dancing girl from a French
* bThe girl falls in love with
but he casts her aside and is
killed in a fight with her for
#Wtheart. Upon recovering, a
the erstwhile sinner enters the priest
'he hood.
How he again meets the 'dancer,
in wins her admiration and induces her
to enter a monastery, is shown in a
'he way that has never been seen before
by photoplay audiences. To say that
he this picture is unusual and sensation
al, is but a mild description of its
in claims and charms.
op , "The Honorable Friend."
Sessue Hayakawa, the noted Jap
of anese actor, who recently achieved an
on unusual personal success in "The
Cheat," in support of Fannie Ward,
and in the stellar role of "Alien
Souls," will appear at the Grand next
n- Thursday in "The Honorable Friend,"
is- a thrilling photodrama written es
he pecially for him.
-e In this production Hayakawa is
an seen as a young Japanese gardener
he working for a wealthy and unscrup
ro ulous Japanese curio dealer. The old
Ig man is desirous of a bride and sends
ul Hayakawa's picture, as his own, to
m Japan. Later, when the Japanese
a "picture bride" comes to America;
to Hayakawa is sent to the dock to
In marry her, having been told that she
.e is to be his own wife. When ha
n. brings her *before the wealthy old
i curio dealer his dreams are shattered,
as he is informed that she is to be!
taken away from him. Affairs are
*y finally adjusted, the dishonorable
d curio dealer receives his just deserts,
n and the two lovers are re-united.
i
"The Shop Girl."
A veritable fashion show is the
Vitagraph Blue Ribbon feature, "The
e Shop Girl," by C. N. and A. M.
h Williamson, from their popular novel
of the same name, which is announced
as the Grand's attraction for Friday,
e Nov. 24.
h Edith Story, who plays the title
role, wears, as a model in one of the f
-fashionable modiste shops, extremely
a exquisite creations, some of which .
a are original designs by Mrs. Jane <
Lewis, head of the Vitagraph costume!
department, and others of which were
copied from those in the Fifth avenue
' shops.
One gown which Miss Storey wears,
particularly worthy of mention, is a r
black chiffon embroidered with huge
flowers in pastel shades of silk. The 1
skirt is made with a long court train
which is detachable. When worn,
however, it forms a short gathered
tunic over the hips oil each side?
which is very effeetive. The waist is
formed entirely by a wide band of d
pale pink and green tulle, caught
with bands of black jet bead orna
ments which cross the shoulders.
Long streamers of a darker shade of a
green and pink tulle fall from the';
waist and are caught at the Wrist of
the left hand by a wider band of jet. 'f
Another gown is of gold cloth made
with long, simple, graceful lines. P
This gown has a court train which
may either be worn or detached.
The various scenes which portray
the show-rooms of the modiste es- 0
tablishment contain a dazzling va
riety of beautiful feminine garments tI
which were loaned by one of the a:
largest costumers in New York city
for the occasion. The many models t(
who wear these latest contrivances tn
of Dame Fashion give the audience c(
numerous opportunities of noting the al
unique draperies, etc., as they prom
enade up and down the wide velvet- t
carpeted stairs for the benefit of the P
patrons in the shop. 1
Some gowns are made of taffeta, s
others of soft silks, some of tulle. ni
In fact no predominating material is h
mis.mng in this gorgeous array of lo
wearing apparel.
Besides the gowns themselves, the 7
latest slipper, scarfs, hair ornaments e
and outer wraps are in great evi- an
dence, and the production would be of
a marked success aside from the bi
splendid plh,, acting, settings and s
direction which are found throughout.
Coming Attractions at the Gem.
Saturday, Nov. 18-Francis Nelson
and E. K. Lincoln in "The Almighty
Dollar."
Sunday, Nov. 19-House Peters in
"The Rail Rider," a thrilling Brady
Made feature.
Tuesday, Nov. 21-Clara Kimball
Young, queen of screen stars, in "The
Dark Silence."
Coming soon, Billie Burke in I
"Gloria's Romance," the most popu
lar and costly serial ever filmed.
1 "The Almighty Dollar."
Money is a good servant, but a dan
gerous master. Some say that even
is a servant money is master, and
therc- a a strong argument in favor of
this ,ntument. Figure as you will,
you must admait that the almighty doa
lar is almost master of every condi
tion. Without it, war would cease,
so the optimists say, but long before
money was the medium of exchange,
war frequently raged with as great
fury
Money in one form or the other has
always existed. Between Adam and
Eve it took the form of an apple; it
purchased her desire, but it dk not
mean happiness. For ages men and
women have sacrificed true happiness
in order to gain wealth, in the belief
that it would bring contentment. But
alas! if the principles of contentment
are not within us, the possession of
wealth or station will not provide hap
piness.
See "The Almighty Dollar" at the
Gem Theatre today, and you will go
home with your mind focused on a
new angle of life-and will suddenly
find yourself grown rich. Frances
Nelson and E. K. Lincoln play the
leading roles, and the production is
heralded as one of the strongest and
most pleasing of the famous Brady
Made features yet presented in Don
aldsonville.
"The Rail Rider."
House Peters, whose last appear
ance on the World program was in a
;t- "The Closed Road," will be seen at
the Gem tomorrow in a play that fits
!r, him to excellent advantage, "The Rail
er Rider," a Brady-Made production di
a rected by Maurice Tourneur. Blend
re ing a sweet love story with a gripping
at tale of financial intrigue and railroad
n- life, "The Rail Rider" will cause your
ts nerves to quiver and make you gasp
and sigh. It is one of the best of the
Brady-Made pictures so far released,
and that means that as a photo
p dramatic creation it is perfect in ev'Y,
n detail.
re Jim Lewis, engineer on the D. & 0.
1H R. R., is delegated by his fellows to
an protest against the tyranny of Bark
ct or, president of the road. Arriving in
New York he calls at Backer's home,
5- where much to his surprise he is nice
ly treated. He becomes enraptured
is with Mildred, the daughter, and, in
r vited to spend the evening, forgets
>- his mission. Next morning he calls
d at the company's office just as it is
s discovered that the general manager
o has skipped with valuable securities.
e Immediately he turns detective and
r trails the fugitive. After some ex
o citing adventures, he captures his
e man and returns with the money. For
a his reward he is made assistant to the
president and wins the admiration of
,Mildred.
Clara Kimball Young in "The Dark
Silence."
There is only one Clara Kimball
Young. Everybody remembers her
marvelous acting in "Camille," "Tril
by," "The Feast of Life," "The Yel
low Passport," "Loia" and the other
master pictures released in the past
on the World program. She will ap
pear at the Gem next Tuesday, Nov. I
21, in a new and wonderful picture, I
"The Dark Silence," which has been
in preparation during the past four
months. In all that time Clara Kim
ball Young has not been seen upon
the screen. Throughout her remark
ably successful career as an actress
she ha.; never enjoyed such oppor
tunities for brilliant and varied per
sonation as those provided in "The
Dark Silence." The play has been t
produced by the World Film Corpo
ration in a most elaborate and lavish e
manner, under the personal direction e
of Albert Capellani. It tells the fol
lowing dramatic story:
Mildred White, a pretty young d
American girl, studying art in Paris,
is saved from a burglar's attack by s
Dr. Mario Martinez, a Spaniard. She e
doesn't understand his type, but re- S
seats and repels his advances. She
is immediately attracted to his friend, a
Derwent Ainsworth, a young English- a
man, pursuing his vocation as a
sculptor in Paris. The friendship be
tween the two gradually develops, and b
finally Derwent declares his love and
asks Mildred to be his wife. They a
plan for an early wedding, but short- n
ly before the auspicious day Derwent
receives a letter from his sister, Sibil, st
telling him of their father's danger- 1
ous illness, and entreating him "to a;
come home immediately if only for
the sake of one who believes in you si
and has always loved you."
Derwent bitterly debates the mat
ter. If only he could wait until after
the wedding. But he feels his father's
condition is desperate, and he must go
at once-there is not even time for a
good-bye to Mildred. To Dr. Mar
tinez, who enters just- then, he con
fides his trouble and begs him to ex
plain all to Mildred. Dr. Martinez
seizes his opportunity-by veiled in
nuendos, pretending to help Mildred,
he encourages her suspicions of her
lover. Sharknows not what to think;
she can hardly doubt Derwent, and
yet-suddenly she sees the half-burn
e letter from Sibil, and her suspicions
are confirmed. As further evidence
of Derwent's duplicity, she finds Si
bil's photograph with its loving in
s..iption. She believes the worst and
yet hopes she may be mistaken and
half awaits a letter from Derwent.
Immediately upon Derwent's ar
rival in England, he writes Mildred,
begging her pardon for his sudden de
parture and explaining everything.
This letter falls into the hands of Dr.
Martinez, who conceals it and plays
further upon Mildred's misery and
suspicions, finally convincing her that
her affections are wasted on Derwent.
Too unhappy to care what becomes
of herself, Mildred agrees to go away
with Dr. Martinez.
After the death of his father, Der
went hasten, to Paris and seeks out
Mildred. Ik is bitterly disappointed I
to learn that she has gone to meet
Dr. Martinez. He rushes to Dr. Mar
tinez' apartment, attacks him furi
ously and then, his hopes blasted, his
faith destroyed. he joins the army
and fights desperately and recklessly.
Mildred learns that Derwent has
been seeking her and that Martinez
has lied to him about her. In despair
she joins the Red Cross Society. She
is called to nurse Derwent, who has
been blinded in battle. Her love for
him is stronger than ever. Conceal
ing her identity she nurses im de
votedly; he soon comes to ye the
faithful nurse, and confides in her
about the "other woman" in his life
who had been so heartless and faith
less.
When Sibil comes to see her wound
ed brother. Mildred learns for the first
time the grievous mistake she had
made-that Sibil, whom she believed
to be her rival and the wife of Der
went is really his sister.
Derwent refuses to return to Eng
land without his beloved nurse and
finally the two are married.
Sibil appeals to Dr. Martinez, who
has won a reputation for his opera
tions on the blind, in behalf of her
brother. Anxious to atone for the
wrong he has done Derwent, Mar
tinez consents to perform the op
eration. Arrived at the house,
he is surprised to recognize in Der
went's wife, Mildred, whose life he
had so nearly ruined.
Mildred learns of the intended op
eration-knows if her husband's sight
"I F " 1` q
If you can keep your head when all about you
Are losing theirs and blaming it on you;
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,
But make allowance for their doubting too;
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
Or, beink lied about, don't deal in lies,
Or, being hated, don't give way to hating,
And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise;
If you can dream-and not make dreams your master;
If you can think-and not make thoughts your aim,
If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster
And treat those two impostors just the same;
If you can bear to hear the truth yoush'ae spoken
Twisted by knaves to make traps for fools,
Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,
And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools;
If you can make one heap of all your winnings
And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,
And lose, and start again at your beginnings
And never breathe a word about your loss;
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
To serve your turn long after they are gone,
And so hold on wh~n there is nothing in you
Except the Will which says to them: "Hold on!"
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,
Or walk with Kings-nor lose the common touch;
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,
If all men count with you, but none too much;
If you can fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds' worth of distance run,
YOURS is the Earth and everything that's in it,
And-which is more-you'll be a MAN, my son!
-Rudyard Kipling.
is restored he will recognize the de
ception she has practiced and fears
nhe will turn from her. However, love
for her husband is stronger than all
else and she begs Dr. Martinez to per
form the operation. Anxiously await
ing the outcome, Mildred prepares to
leave the house as soon as she learns
s her husband's sight is restored. Dr.
Martinez, however, fully repentant,
tells the recovered Derwent the whole
truth, that Mildred is innocent and
that only he is to blame. Derwent
seeks out Mildred and the two happily
embrace.
Good Roads Activity Promised.
The election of J. Wallace Alexan
der as president of the Louisiana
Good Roads Association, following
shortly after his appointzt;sazt4y Gov
ernor Pleasant as a member of the
State Highway Commission author
ized by the last legislature, has given
added impetus to the already definite
good roads movement in this state.
It was Representative Alexander who
fathered the $20,000,000 good roads
bond bill in the last general assembly,
which lost by but two votes. It is
now the purpose of the commission to
make a thorough survey and analysis
of the good roads situation in this
state and report to the legislature of
1918. With ample time before them
and with men on the commission who
are deeply interested in the economic
side of good roads, it is anticipated
their report will go a long way to
ward solving the big problem, of such
importance especially to the rural
districts.
A DONALDSONVILLE WOMAN'S
EXPERIENCE.
Can you doubt the evidence of this
Donaldsonville woman?
You can verify Donaldsonville en
dorsement.
Read this:
Mrs. Clara Templet, Nicholls ave
nue and Lafourche street, Donaldson
ville, says: "I suffered almost day and
night from awful pains across my kid
neys. I was so run down that I was
nearly a physical wreck. I tried
everything, but nothing seemed to re
lieve me. I got a supply of Doan's l
Kidney Pills and after I had taken
two boxes, I didn't have any more
pain in my back and I haven't suf
fered any since."
Price 50c, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get l
Doan's Kidney Pills-the same that
Mrs. Templet had. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y.-Adv.
Twenty-six Cents for Cotton.
The Franklinton Era-Leader claims
the cotton-price championship for
Nathan Burris, a boy farmer of
Vpahington parish, who sold a bale
of long staple cotton to a Franklinton
firm last week for 26 cents a pound. I
IBERVILLE AT STATE FAIR.
Progressive Parish Wins Fourth Prize
with Splendid Exhibit.
By H. J. SEIFERTH in Times-Picayune.
The parish exhibits at the state fair
were inspiring because of their num
ber and extent. Diversified and bet
ter farming were written over them
all. Bossier won first place because
she was a practiced hand at the game.
Her display was magnificent, but so
was the showing of some of the oth
ers. Bossier followed the rule that
wins in business in general. She
studied her market and she aimed to
meet the demand in the best way.
She checked the premium list, grew
and gathered her products in strict
accordance with it, -took- ass; many
prizes as she could, sometimes in
classes to which the, others had not
paid much attention, and when her
winnings were added up she led the
bunch and got the money.
If the final tropy was based upon
effort and improvement, upon sacri
fices and obstacles overcome, Iberville
was entitled to a medal of honor.
The fact that she finished in fourth
place was a triumph in itself, for only
a few weeks before there was not
even a sign that the parish would be
represented. There was no public
sentiment and no appropriation, both
vital elements. H. H. Gueymard,
one of the leading farmers of the
section, made the fight almost single
handed and forced through the official
sanction and support at the very last
minute. Hamilton Lesseps, the dem
onstration agent, was ready for duty.
He was eager to illustrate what Iber
ville was doing. The fact that he
had only three days in which to do
the work of weeks did not discourage
him. He not only secured a credita
ble batch of products but a very com
prehensive collection.
Iberville is a sugar district; some
of the large plantations finish their
output even to refining and granulat
ing. Samples from these factories
were included. Then he got up an ar
ray of the different varieties of cane.
Citrus fruits figured prominently, and
there were melons, and bananas,
which Iberville has shown her ability
to raise. One of the native assets
which is counted waste in many places
is moss. Iberville not only commer
cializes her moss crop, but has also
learned to turn out some attractive
and profitable by-products. All of
these were incorporated, besides many
other things garnered from her rich
soil. It was a splendid illustration
of progress, leaving out the haste of
the achievement.
It is to everybody's interest to pa.
tronize hti rr- industries. No com
munity can succeed where this policy
is not carried out. Keep you;' money
Styleplus $7
Clothes 4f',
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
The same price the nation over."
Adolphe Netter
DEPARTMENT STORE
DONALDSONVILLE, LA.
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
Southern States Woman Suffrage
Conference.
417 Camp Street, New Orleans.
Women Save Democratic Party.
To the women voters of the west
ern states President Wilson; owes his
re-election. Of the twelve states
where women vote on equkal terms
with men, eleven returned hnajorities
for the Democratic party. This fact
should elicit from the "solid south"
a prompt tribute of justice to its
wo" Manhood. Two southern condi
tions stand out glaringly, Either
southern Democratic men are cring
ingly accepting their partisan salva
tion from western women, gr south
ern men of the Democratic party must
honestly extend the ballot to south
ern women, that these wen may
return to their western s rs sup
port in the next campaig There
are four years in which to pay this
debt, and southern men must prove
their honor. It is no longer a ques
tion of "chivalry." The chivalry was
all on the part of the western men
who enfranchised the women. Now
nothing remains for the southern men
but to discharge the great, obligation
under which the western woman voter
has placed him. She is his pAron,
his protector end his party: salvation.
A Woman Elected to Congress.
Mpntana holds high the manner of
inte'ligent womanhood. Sh has pro
duced the first woman for ongress.
There may be women as. lever in
other states, but other states have
not yet been clever enouglr"to find
them out.
Big boost for Montana, Clever I
women, clever sons. You don't grow
strong-minded men from weak-mind
ed women. Heredity doesj}'t work
that way. Something to think over,
isn't it?
Miss Rankin ran far ahe of her
ticket and gives to Montan the dis- I
tinction of being the first of 4e states j
in the Union to send a *,man to t
congress. The home int ests of
Montana will be represend. The t
homes of other states ar eshalf-or- t
phaned in the national coun . Hats j
off to Montana! Her just a~ton will
advertise her to the world. C
3,. a
Why Some Women Want t Vote. t
This reason was given by 'Florida t
woman when asked why sh' wanted V
the vote. She must be a li 'wire in
her community and brim m. over s
with good sense. Speakin of suf- t
fragists she says: " 'aun
many conditiono's, ay a
fecting women and children, far from
just and fair and for the good of so- c
ciety, we long for opportunity to s
help effect certain changes.
"We have tried indirect influence '
with far from satisfactory results,
and so wish to take a hand equipped t
with the same tools that men have t
found necessary in bringing about re- s
forms they sought. We do not ex
pect to do at once all we desire, but
we are no longer content to shirk our V
responsibilities as the mother sex.
The children in schools and factories 1;
are ours, as well as the men's. So t
are the sick and insane and the af- P
flicted in hospitals and infirmaries. It
has been borne upon us that these
cities and towns are ours, just as
truly as they are the men's. We are
not satisfied with the way all these °
things are looked after, and we are
no longer willing to shrug our shoul
ders and say, 'It's none of our. busi
ness so why worry?' We have not all
the rights we want so long as abuses v
that work woe to millions of our fel
low mortals are allowed to go un
checked. e
" 7omen are trying to enlarge the y
scope of the genuine home spirit so
that it may include the neighborhood. L
They have decided that they owe cer
tain debts to the community where
they live, and, having reached the
conclusion that the ballot will help b
them in the d~charge of these duties, t
they are demanding this instrument
with all the insistence they can com
mand."
________a
Good State in Which to Live.
There are thirteen Kansas counties
which own no poor farms and have
no pauper residents of any kind.
There are seven counties owning poor
farms, but with no inmates, and there
are nine counties in which the inmates
are able to make the farms self-sup
porting and the counties make no
contributions to the poor farm bud
get. In half a dozen counties there
are so few paupers that the county
rents out the poor farm and uses the
income for the support of the in
digent poor in homes in the county.
Where there are only three or four
indigent poor persons in the county,
it has been found more satisfactory
to keep these people in private homes
at county expense than to maintain
the county farm homes.
More people afford automobiles in
Kansas than any other state. Isn't
it significant that these splendid con
ditions are found in a state which has
made its women voters, and where
men and women help to decide public
affairs? Do some thinking about the
ballot for women.
Thomas Edward Erskine, consul
general of the British empire at New
Orleans, died at his home in that city
October 29, aged 57 years. He had
been 4' poor health several months,
but his sudden end, caused by heart
failure, was an unexpected shock to
his family and friends. He had been
in the British consular service since
1900, and stood high in the confidence
of his government. He leaves a wi
dow, who was the daughter of Lieut.
Gen. Robert Bruce of the British
army, two sons and three daughters,
all grown. Mr. Erskine was a great
grandson of Baron Erskine, lord chan
cellor of Great Britain in 1806.
David Pokorny, last surviving mem
ber of the well-known Pokorny shoe
firm in New Orleans, died at his home
in that city last week.
MORE HONORS FOR McCALL.
Ascension Breeder Wins Champion
ships at New Orleans Show.
As reported by the Times-Pit yune,
the Duroc swine show at the Nation
al Live Stock and Farm Show now in
progress in New Orleans furnished
probably the most sensational compe
tition of the whole fair. Louisiana
. provided all the sensations.
The first arrival was the magnifi
cent herd of the West Dallas Farms at
Orville, Ala., which had trophies from
national and state fairs, and animals
- of so much reputation that it seemed
foolhardy for Louisiana to attempt
rivalry. But the Pelican breeders
have some opinion of themselves and
their stock, they believe they are raia
ing as good stock as anybody, and they
came in numbers. C. W. Philips, of
New Sharon, Iowa, was the judge, and
it was a fair field and no favor.
Evan J. McCall was the best known
of the challengers, and he had every
reason to feel jubilant, for Louisiana
)efender won another boar grand
championship, and Cherry John Belle
held on to the sow leadership. Anoth
er Louisiana winner was John Rob
ert Reid, the boy pig club champion
of Tallulah, who has developed a herd
in less than two years which would do
credit to any Louisiana expert. The
Utilgy Farm, Mound, La., under the
management of A. J. Huffman, con
tinued to make its fine showing, and
M. J. Mayer, of Baton Rouge, was
knooking at the door in nearly all the
clan; .S..
One of the McCall winnings caused
the only protmst at any of the recent
fairs, and held up the award of the
junior and boar grand championships
until today. It came about in the se
nior boar pig class. Reid bought a
youngster at Atlanta which the judge
there declared the best individual he
had seen this year, paying $500 for
the prize. McCall had also bought a
pig, from Young of Ohio, which he
named McCall Taylor, and which re
versed the Atlanta verdict at the state
fair at Shreveport. The blot upon his
pig's escutcheon was really what
brought Reid to New Orleans. The
judge there was of the same mind as
the judge at Shreveport, and McCall
Taylor scored again. Reid protested
the right of the McCall pig to show in
the cliss, not the decision of the
judge.
He claimed the McCall pig was too
old for the company. McCall pro
duced the certificate of registry and
the affidavit of the breeder. The mat
ter was put up to Manager Rennyson,
who promptly declared he was not
versed in pig law but was inclined to
stand on the certificate, believing that
the Record Association should do the
investigating, itf:here was any doubt
abot `thso ages<~.
He in turn appointed a committee
of experts, who appeared to be of the
same mind. But Reid thought that
veterinarians should examine the ani
mal. McCall denied the right to make
any such test, but in order to show
that he had nothing to fear and for
the sake of harmony he finally con
sented. So the race and the issue are
1till in doubt.
In the boar class, McCall got first
with Louisiana Defender, the West
Dallas Farm second with its previous
ly undefeated champion, and Mayer
third. The West Dallas won the se
nior yearling, McCall and Mayer scor
ing in that order. Utility Farm took
first with junior yearling, West Dal
las second. Frank H. Reid, father of
the boy champion, got first and sec
ond in junior boars, John Robert Reid
third.
In sows McCall won first in the
aged class, J. R. Reid second, and the
Alabama champion had to be content
with third. F. H. Reid won senior
yearling sow, West Dallas second,
Utility third. Jno. Robert Reid walk
ed off with first and second in junior
yearlings, West Dallas getting third.
The boy agaTh scored with senior sow
pig, McCall second, West Dallas third.
Utijity got first and second, and the
judlor Reid third in junior sow pigs.
McCall won the senior champion
hoar and sow prizes, John Robert Reid
thejunior champion sQw, and McCall
the grand champion sow, with the
boar county yet to be heard from.
The Louisiana Swine Breeders had
an extra race to themselves, and this
resulted as follows:
Aged boar, McCall, Mayer; senior
yearling, McCall, Mayer; junior year
ling, Utility; junior boar, F. H. Reid,
first and second.
Aged sow, McCall, J. R. Reid; se
nior yearling, F. H. Reid; junior year
ling, J. R. Reid, first and second; se
nior pig, J. R. Reid, McCall; junior
pig, Utility, first and second.
Why The Went Democratic.
The New ork Herald, independ
ent, in giving an explanation of why
certain states, usually Republican,
went Democratis at this election, at
tributes the loss of New Hampshire
to the indifference and carelessness of
the Republican national committee;
Ohio to the labor drift; Kansas to the
women's vote, for pacifism; North
Dakota to the opposition of its large
Scandinavian population, to war and
their belief that President Wilson was
going to keep us out of it-and
Wyoming, Utah, New Mexico and
Idaho to "gratitude to the DIocrats
for putting back the tariff oiU sugar,
thus protecting the beet sugar in
dustry."
If the Herald's explanation is cor
rect, the action of the Democratic
congress in reversing itself on the su
gar schedule of the Underwood bill
saved Mr. Wilson and re-elected him
as president. What the Herald says
as to beet sugar is equally applicable
to cane sugar, for while the change
did not win the president any elector
al votes in the cane district, it had
the effect of cutting down the ma
jority for Judge Martin, Progressive,
in the third Louisiana district (the
sugar district), from 1424 to less than
a hundred. Sugar did it.-Times
Picayune.
Homer Eubanks, a young planter
in Caddo parish, was assassinated by
a fisherman named James M. Gage,
who was subsequently captured by a
farmer near Bradley, Ark.
