,:: ) ptate
t .IVERSITY
SJdIARY
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
?W
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, NOVEMBER 18, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 31
One Dollar a Year
,--, . I --- - '' SVMNSttJiMilff&ESoiifc-" hi - i
Trying To Break "The Big Four"
Opponents of Secretary Morrison of the American Federation of Labor Work Hard to Defeat
Him. J. W. Hays, Secretary of the Typos, Groomed for the Job. It Will Take 11,000
Votes to Beat Morrison, but His Long Service is Helping Him. News of the Convention.
Baltimore, Mil. The last resolution
was handed in at 7 o'clock last night
at Room 102, Hotel Renncrt, American
organized labor's nerve center for the
next two weeks; the four leaders of the
brotherhood of trainmen were expected
in the city, fresh from an unsatisfactory
conference in New York with the rail
road managers; the forces that would
bring to an end Secretary Frank Mor
rison's twenty years' service as secre
tary of the Federation and member of
Labor's "Big Four," were figuring
upon their exact strength in the con
vention, and things in general Jwere
shaping up for "large doings" in trades
imiouism. There will be about ISO resolutions,
and the nature of none of them will
be officially divulged until this morning,
when they are expected to be ready to
be put into the hands of the delegates
and to he referred to committees.
It is known that the convention has
been asked by resolution to pledge its
"moral and financial support" to the
men of organized labor who were ar
rested in San Francisco, charged with
implication in the bomb outrage in San
Francisco on July 22, when ten people
watching a preparedness parade were
blown to pieces. One of the men, War
. ren K. Billings, was convicted and scn
. tenced .to,Iife;iin.prisonmcnt ,
j. Edward Morgan, of tlie Interna
tional Workers' Defense League, in
troduced the resolution after he had ad
dressed the convention in the morning.
giving the full history of the tragedy.
Important Program Up.
Organised labor will also consider at
this convention the "daylight saving"
plan. President Gompers received last
night a telegram from Marcus M.
Marks, president of the borough of
Manhattan, with reference to the
scheme. He referred it to a committci.
which wi" repuit upon it to the con
vention. Among the resolution ., it is under
stood, is one regarding the strike of
union street car men in New York.
Hugh Frayne, who led the carmen in
that struggle, says that ten thousand
men are still out, and that the traction
companies in the metropolis are having
trouble operating their cars.
Some definite action is also expected
of this convention upon the question of
the enforcement of the Adanison Fight
Hour Law. A member of the Execu
tive Council said last night ihat he ex
pected in Baltimore W. G. Lee, presi
dent of the trainmen, President War
ren S. Stone, of the engineers, ami W.
S. Carter, president of the firemen, all
of whom participated in the conference
at Washington with the railroad man
agers when there were threats of a
general railway strike.
Trying To Down Morrison.
And then there is the light upon Sec
retary Morrison, lie is being opposed
by the forces that "made" him twenty
years ago, and those forces are even
now counting the votes upon which
they can depend to heat him when the
time arrives to elect officers. It was
sated in The Sun that J. W. Hays, sec
retary of the typos, who is being
groomed for Morrison's job, was not
in town. That was wrong he is in
town anil has been for a week, but not
everybody knew it.
Morrison's opponents have not by
any means enlisted the undivided sup
port of the rest of the Executive Coun
cil, though they have the solid delega
tion from the International Typograph
ical Union, with the exception of Mor
rison himself. It will take eleven thou
sand votes to defeat Morrison and elect
Hays, and Morrison's long service has
given him a personal support with
which it will be difficult to reckon.
Today's session will begin at !):;il).
and the ijay ill probably be consumed
with a speech by President Gompers,
answering the speeches of the fraternal
delegates yesterday; the report of the
Committee on Rules and Order; the
reading of telegrams and communica
tions, .and the references of the resolu
tions to committees. Tonight the Mo
tion Picture Operators' Union will be
1 N - . .IkhH '-''
THOMAS H
President Centra
hosts at a ball at the Ljric Theatre,
Mount Royal-and Maryland avenues.
May Oppose Arbitration.
Three important messages were de
livered lo the delegates at the morning
se-sion. The mo-t important, from the
viewpoint of the policy of American
trades-unionism, wvs the caution by
Thomas A. Stevenson, fratennl dele
gate from trade- union- in Canada, that
American organized labor be not led
into an indorsement of any legislation
providing for Government investigation
and settlement of industrial disputes.
He told the delegates in his address
that the industrial Disputes and In
vestigation Act in Canada had so dis
satisfied organized labor there that at a
recent convention in Toronto it was
voted to ask for its repeal at the next
session of the Dominion Parliament.
The elTcct of the act, Mr. Stevenson
said, was simply to give to employers
the assistance of the government in
breaking a strike.
It is considered not unlikely that the
Federation will go on record at thi
convention as opposing President Wil
son's plan for government arbitration
i of labor disputes. President Gompers
in Ins opening addles- on .Monday de
clared himself opposed to it
A message from Great Britain was
brought by Harry Gosling, fraternal
delegate from England, who explained
why British organized labor had re
jected Gomper's proposal for an inter
national conference of wage-earners at
the same time and pl'ice that peace ne-
irnti'ihMiii. Kntu nun tin. i!i ri-imr iiritwiils
,,,.,,,...,,. ,,t. .. t.. ...
were held.
Sneakers Are l'lcntil'lil.
Other fraternal delegates, as the la
bor representatives from foreign couii
tries are called, made addresses. Bunii
Suzuki, of Japan, scouted the "yellow
peril" talk.
Miss Mary Anderson, of Chicago, or
ganizer of the Trade Union League,
who will be in the partv of women
trades-unionists that will call upon
President Wilson to congratulate him
this week, toll1 the convention of the
work of organizing eight million wo
men by means of a school in Chicago
MUGAVIN
1 Labor Council
where they are trained to be labor
leaders.
Other speakers were Frank Hayes,
Commissioner of Public Safety, Jersey
City: J. 11. Kimble, Mar) land national
legislative representative of the Fann
ers' National Congress; J. B. Straver,
Rock Island, III., of the Farmers' Na
tional Congress, and J. B. I lines, of
Ft. Worth, Tex., who urged the 'Fed
eration to hold its next convention
there.
In the afternoon sixty-three auto
mobiles, decorated with Baltimore llags,
took the delegates and their families
on a sightseeing trip through the city
suburb-, anil at night the men went lo
a smoker at Moose Hall, while the wo
men went to a theatre party at the
Victoria.
WEDNESDAY SESSION.
Suggestion- for the solution of nearly
every one of the big social and eco
nomic and some of the political prob
lems confronting the United States are
contained in the l.lll resolutions pre
sented to the national convention of
the American Federation of Labor and
made public yesterday. These resolu
tions are now m committee, and the
convention is expected to begin con
sideration of them when it reconvenes
this morning at the Garden Theatre
In order to allow the coiutuijtce,s time
to organize anil take up thV (ite'stions,
which will be discussed from now until
toward the end of the convention, no
session- were held after that of yester
day morning.
Evidence of the importance m which
some of the pending problems are held
is the fact that they are dealt with in
more than one resolution. Thus, the
high cost ot living is handled by several
niotjoiis emanating froiuydelegates
representing far-distant sectiKn-; the
European War and its after-effects arc
treated from various angles, world
peace is advocated by one resolution
and "true patriotism" by another.
Would Ti'iicli It In Schools.
To increase "true patriotism," a mo
tion from Pittsburgh advocates the
teaching in the schools of "the love of
liberty in its widest meanings, the lib
erty to speak, to think and to do," and
Sam Hirsch Punished
For Contributing to the Cox Campaign Committee.
, Friedlander Has Wiped Out Gambling in Cincinnati
and Widows Are Praying Every Night That He Be
Spared To Us.
Our esteemed citizen, Samuel Hirsch,
who has conducted a number of hand
books in Cincinnati for many years,
an old-line Republican, and said to be
a regular subscriber to all the Republi
can campaign liuuis, got in Dad last
week.
Sam tried to carry water on both
shoulder.-, as it would appear, but as a
matter of fact, Sam was not for Willis,
and notwithstanding that he is reported
to have kicked in for the regular Re
publican campaign, he thought that he
would help out his old friend, Jimmy
Cox, by sending him a check, to show
that his heart was in the right place.
All went well until after the election,
and then things bridle. Somebody sud
denly found out that Sam had a hand
winds up by being, a plea for interna
tionalism. One of the high cost of living resolu
tions asks the Federation to "demand I
the creation of a Federal commission J
which shall investigate all phases of this
subject and recommend to Congress
measures designed to remedy this sit- !
nation and to prevent its recurrence."
A number of resolutions deal with
Federal Civil Service employes, especi- I
ally those of the Postollice Department. I
i and range from efforts at uuiouizinir
them todeiuands that they be given
shorter hours and more pav. A Con
gressional resolution providing for an
investigation of the be-t means of hold
ing in check tuberculosis is also in
dorsed. Right of suffrage to residents
of the District of Columbia is demand- !
ed, as is the right of the District to a
voice in the Electoral College and to
representation in Congress.
Some Other lttcommi'iilutioiis.
Other resolutions recommended
were :
A campaign to secure eight-hour leg
islation for women worker- and "for
all worker- throughout all industry."
Efforts to have repealed all laws that
are designed to prohibit strike-, on the
ground that "men individually or col
lectively have a right to -top work an
day or 'am time m a free democracy."
'"That this convention favor the e-tabli-lmient
of a commercial union be
tween the United State- and the South
and Central American republics; that
we also favor the establishment of
-teaiup-hip line- to give ample and ei
ficient service to the commerce of the
countries composing such union," and
that the Government finance the steam
ship project.
"That we condemn war a- a means
of settling international di-pute- ami
hereby place the American Federation
of Labor on record as unalterably op-
j posed to the slaughter of human lie
I mgs," and that an international labo'
peace congress he established.
Resolutions likely to receive the
strong support of the women of the
Federation are those providing that
"the wage paid for definite work must
be absolutely independent of the sex of
the person performing it," and akiug
for pensions for public school teach
ers and for greater opportunities in the
way of advancement.
Plan to Honor (ioiupci's.
A "mass demonstration" to be held
in New York on Jauuar) 2T in honor of
the sixty-seventh liirthdaj and the fif
tieth marriage anniversary of President
Gompers is urged in a resolution pre
sented by J. P. Holland, of New York.
At the morning session of the con
vention it was voted that the delegate
as a body go to Washington next Sat
urday to congratulate President Wilson
on hi- re-election
book and had an office in the Strand
Building.
I As a matter of fact. Hirsch num
I ber.s among hi- warm personal friends
I or customers city and county officials.
liremen anil policemen, anil every man
about town has known for two years
that his office was in the Strand Build
ing after he moved from the Lyric The
atre Building. Nevertheless, a sensa
tional raid was executed, and Sam was
yanked to jail and fined a century.
Mr. Friedlander is happy, as all the
handbooks are now clo-ed up and Cin
cinnati is clean of betting on horse
racing or anything el-e. and the police
are receiving letters every minute from
puur wiuuws inaiiKing mem ior me
wiping out of gambling in the Queen
Citv of the West.
BUILDING TRADES COUNCIL
Mollis Itt'gultir MeetiiiK and Trains
acts a .Mass f Routine llusini'ss.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order bv
President Jos. Cullen.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Journex
men Plasterers' local asking tor a com
mittee of the Council to meet a commit
tee from their organization, in relation
to their affiliating with the Council, was
read and concurred in.
The agreement of the Slate and Tile
Roofers was read and referred to the
Board of Business Agents.
The business agents' report was read
and adopted.
The minutes of the board of business
agents were read and concurred in.
All trades reported business good.
After the transaction of a great ma-s
of routine business the Council ad
journed. NOMINATES CANDIDATES
Street Car .Men's I'nioii Is Heady
For Its lYiiniuj- Klectlon.
Amalgamated Association of Street
and Electric Railway Emploves of
America, Dhi-ion No 027, last Thur
day night nominated candidates for its
primary election Thursday, December T
The iollowiuu' were nominated:
President, II. C. Siuvth and Albert L
Jones; vici president, John Downing,
Jame- Younu and llarrv Beard: finan
cial sccrctan, A. L. Spradling and C C
Sammoii-; recording secretary, R S
Barnes and Robert Montgomery ; treas
urer, Daniel Murnahan: correspondent,
R. R. Mills, C Holme- and . Kilgour,
conductor, llenrv Brennan and C. Dcff
ncr; warden, Frank Peters; sentinel,
Dominick Dolan, M lloltou, K Jump
and P. Fitzpatrick : members of execu
tivc board: Brighton Division, R
Lovctt; Eighth Street Division, J
Ros, J Wuermh and 1. Karrick: Wal
nut Hills Division, J. Beverage, R. I-'ogle,
J. Morris and L. C. Varlcy : Avondale
Division, C. Bovden, Fred Pavelev and
F. Albrecht; Ihde Park Division, J S
McCaffrey; Chfton-Eliu Division, W
W Smith: Vine Street Division,
llaiibrock; Ilartwell Division, George
Gray, F. Hartley and Edward Bropb
The two highest candidates for each
office at the primaries will be placed
upon the ballot for the election, which
will be held Thursday, December 21
$"Vm - ?. -:;
