DEMOCRACY VERSUS POLITICO-ECCLESIASTICAL ROMANISM'
THE ISSUE ii clear oil On the on hand it the fundamental theory of free rorernment voiced in the
Declaration of Independence, in cur FEDERAL CONSTITUTION, in the Dill of Rihu of the virions com
manuealtha, and lumioomlj act forth by Thomaa Jefferson and other great founder of our democratic aute.
,Vhe oppodnj theory ia the time-honored claim of the Roman hierarchy in relation to government, popular
education, and freedom of conacience, ipeech, Dress and assembly; a theory which pope and church councils
hare conaistently roainuined and which oppoaea the democratic theory at every point. Thia papal rule Is mon
archal in spirit, form, and aubsuncc. The two systems cannot exist together. THE MENACE stands for
fundamental democracy.
This Is Number 291
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THE DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
v
PRES. WILSON'S ELECTION INDICATED
-DETERMINING FACTORS IN CONTEST
Hughes' Popularity Decreased Dally After the Ex
pose of Republican Committee's Consorting With
Hal Reed for Production of Mexican "Religious
Prejudice" Film, and Hughes' Conference With
. Oleajy Whom the President Had Denounced
ROME'S WAR OMTrESIDEIIT WILSON
Papal Forces Sought to Punish Him for Angering Hierarchy
by His Mexican Policy The Morning Star, Of fical Organ
of Archbishop Blenk and Bishop Keiley, The New World
. and Other Leading Catholic Papers Sweeping! Con
demn Him for Official Acts
rmS we
S we go to press th indica
Yfu tions point to the re-election
iv. or r
resident Ui md in an
C2lJ almost unpreeedentedly close
' 'electoral mntp&L A n timber of
prominent factors were involved in
the campaign thia year at will be
indicated below. We believe, how
ever, that the one factor which pre
Tented Mr. II ugh e' securing a de
ciaire victory waa the compromising
attitude of the Republican Cam
paign Committee and Mr. Hughes
toward Borne oa the campaign ad
venced. Unquestionably one of the strong
.est elements in favor of President
Wilson waa the success of his pacific
policy during the present epoch of
international insanity, and the fear
i that Mr. Hughes would yield to
Rome's demand for intervention in
Mexico and thus involve us in a
bloody war with our sister republic.
The woman's vote for which Mr.
' Ilughea made a strong bid went, it
' anneara. laret.lv for Mr. Wilson
alter he had expressed himself as
' favorable to suffrage, doubtless be-
causo Mr. ulson stood for pence
and economic reforms in which
women are deenlv interested, and
( Mr. Ilughea failed to definitely de-
. dare himself iu favor of the fun
. damental democratic principles
against which Home is warring
principles which are very dear to a
vast majority of our American
( women.
i Another potent factor waa the
general feeling that President Wil
son had, along social and economic
lines, interpreted the Democratic
ideals in the spirit of liberal de-
tnocracy which place the man
I -I .V. - J-TI--
fa WO IIIC UVUU'.
a ii :i: .1 i ii. i
A luiuiir punurte eirmrni limi
J- J 11. - 1 1 J L 1
- avvrcu wie pimui'iu was unuouoi-
Y? edly-the fear that Mr. Roosevelt
I would be a dominating figure in any
' cabinet which Mr. lluirhea tnicht
elect The latter had declared that
he was in full accord with Mr.
Roosevelt's views, and Mr. Roooe-
Telt'a views were in direct opposi
jtion to the nobly pacific course of
t :A i tt:i tt i
aw m. ivpivii;ii i iimju. ins intemperate
iTf utterances had convinced tens of
. -UVUOUUUO VI 1 U tli I C UlLCIllUClli
M, y a i v t
iiu iiiuugiiuui iKpuuiiciui mat nc
vould be as dangerous in a com
manding position at the present
time as would be a five-year-old boy
armed with a box of matches' if
turned loose in a powder ma To
xins. It is not Btranjre. therefore, that
, auch lifelong and representative Re-
; publicans as 1 nomas A. Edison and
Henry Ford were bitterly disap-
poimea wit ft air. Hughes' weak and
pft-timee intemperate denunciation
pt President Wilson'a pacific policv,
and feared that the militant spirit
?f Roosevelt would gravely interfere
with the upward sweep of civiliza
tion in the event of the, election of
the Republican candidate. These
men believed with millions of othei
thoughtful citizens that the highest
I interest or advancing civilization
I ao less than the true prosperitv of
iraerica could best be conserved by
electing President Wilson. They
id not wish to aid or abet in any
way an .administration which threat-
ened to pursue a course that might
I easily sacrifice the flower of Ameri
can youth and manhood upon the
jtar of shallow and mistaken na
!onal pride.
Tt it ... .
Auoe imngs were positive rac
ra which led tens and perhaps
ndreds of thousands of persons
support President Wilson who
immediately after the nomination
of Mr. Hughes expected to yield
their unqualified support to the
Republican ticket
Sampson and Delilah
There were, however, other things
which if less obvious were none the
less potent in turning what prom
ised to be a sweeping victory for
Mr. Hughes into defeat, or near de
feat and these factors, broadly spesk
ing, all had to do with the Repub
lirsn Sampon dallying with the
Delilah of Romanian.
After the Republican convention
there was a general feeling among
the patriotic millions of America
that Hughes and Fairbanks could
be depended upon to bravelv and
unqualifiedly stand bv the funda
mental democracy of our liberal
constitution. After the Democratk
convention this sentiment wat
greatly strengthened and an elec
tion at that time would, we believe,
have resulted in Mr. Huirhes receiv
ing from two to three million of pa
triotic votes, a large proportion of
which later went over to Mr. Wilsou
for the reasons we are about to cite.
In the first place, Mr. Hughes'
attitude toward the assassin lluerta
and his sweeping denunciation of
President Wilson's Mexican policy
impressed thousands as nothing
more or less than the familiar Ro
man Catholic ranting against the
president It amazed millions
of our people and caused grave mis
givings as to the man they had ex
pected to enthusiastically support.
Rome and Republican Folly
This was followed by the expos
ure of the coquetting of the Repub
lican committee with Rome in the
shameful moving picture scheme
which, when dragged into the light
of publicity, came to a sudden and
inglorious end. In this exposure it
was 'shown conclusively that the
Republican leaders had become a
party to a plan for flooding the
country during the closing days of
the campaign with moving pictures
that were little loss than an attempt
to visualize the shameful and cal
lumnious attack of the hierarchy on
President Wilson and the recog
nized government of our sister re
public. Wi a the master spirita of
the Republican partv thus canshl
red-handed in a scheme to further
Rome's attack on the president and
the liberal aspirations of the Mexi
can people, tens of thousands of. the
more thoughtful of our citizens be
gan to ask what secret deal might
be brewing if indeed one had not
hcn consummated, between the ever
dickering Roman political machine
and the managers of the Republican
campaign. This episode greatly
dampened the enthusiasm of the
patriots for Mr. Hughes and stim-
ulatedva feeling of ditrust in many
minds.
Next came the news that tTie Re
publican presidential candidate was
consorting with Dr. O'Lcarv of
malodorous hyphenate fame. CLeary
naa oecn so onensivcJy and frankly
anti-American that this action of
Mr. Hughe in conferring with the
man who opposed President Wilson
because of his brave stand in de
fense of fundamental democracy
and sound American principles, fur
ther augmented the distrust in the
minds of many patriots.
Kelly to Hughes' Besone
Then cam an uncovering of the
Indiana campaign, to swing the
Catholic rot of tbt Hooaier state
for Mr. Hughe, in pursuance of a
veil organized plan. It wa shewn
that thousands o copies of the book
"Red and Yellow," written by the
Right Rev. Francis Kelly, presi
dent of the Catholic church extension
society, was being platd in the home
of the Catholic familiec throughout
the state. This book, published
under the audioes of the Catholic
church Extension Society, was well
calculated to fan to flam the Cath
olic prejudice againrt the president
It was even claimed that the cam-
Caign of Mr. Hughe was sanctioned
y the American cardinals and its
promoters announced that twenty
three out of thirty Roman Catholic
priest in Indianapolis were actively
working for Hughes' election. It is
true that one of the cardinal issued
a weak denial of having sanctioned
the campaign, but this failed to
carry conviction in the face of the
fact that an authoritative utterance
from the hierarchy requesting
priests to keep out of politics would
have silenced these militant "fathers''
a ho were working so zealously for
the election of Mr. Hughes.
Hughes' fatal Mistake
Had Mr. Hughes even in the
presence of these disquieting facts
and circumstance bravelv and un
equivocally stated that 'he would
use all his constitutional power to
uphold and protect the great funda
mental principles of our ORGANIC
LAW in so far as they relate to
frffdom of prec, pm. and ot
ffmbly, ami that he vould rrsoluU
ly oppose any and every attempt on
the part of any church to eecure
spectal privileges or appropriations
of public money for sectarian in
stitution, or any other attempt to
lisregard the spirit or the Utter of
the ronstitutional provision for the
absolute divorce of church and
itate; had he declared that he would
defend in every constitutional wav
the fundamental principles of our
liberal democracy atrainst the mon-
archial and reactionary foreign in- j
nuence wiucn insiuiout-ly and open
ly are assailing our FEDERAL
CONSTITUTION'S guarantees and
the great bulwarks of free institu
tions, there would have been no
question but what he would have
received an overwhelming majority
of the vote of the patriotic millions
who are opposing the Roman Cath
olic political machine because that
machine is warring on our funda
mental democracy.
Such a simple declaration would
have been nothing more than an
outspoken pledge for the npholdine
of our liberal democratic system of
government. It is something which
it is safe to any every president of
the United States 'from George
Washington to James A. Garfield
9BSBSB
Owing: to the enormous circulation of The Menace we are com
pelled to go to press before complete returns from the election are
available. Hence, we are compelled to omit any comprehensive sur
vey of the congressional and state election this week.
Early reports, however, show the defeat of a number of papist
and pro-papist candidates. Among this number are Governor Dunne
of Illinois, and Congressman Taggart of Kansas.
. Reports received from Floriil indicate the election of Rev.
Sidney Catts as chief executive of Ithat commonwealth. The fol
lowing telegram has been received from the president of the Amer
ican Federation of Fatriotic Societies:
Menace, Aurora, Mo. :
Hurrah for the patriotic societies! Practically all candidates endorsed by us
in Minnesota, great and small, have been elected in behalf of the patriotic fed
eration. I want to congratulate the citizen of Minnesota upon this, their ratifi
cation of American principles and to heartily thank the good old Menace for its
splendid help and untiring efforts. D.J. REYNOLDS, President.
Next week wc hope to be able to give a more extended report
of the result as it relates to the state elections and the national legis
lative bodies.
would have bea pad to bav sub
scribed to. It is a declaration that
every man worthy, to b called a
loyal citizen of tbii repvblM would
b glad to robecrib to, and it U
doubUea a declaration that both
Mr. Hughe and Mr. Wilson would
privately dir to aubocnb to, nd
a declaration abont which then
would be so question were it cot
for th fact that there is a great
anti-democraJie monorchial political
martin vrfur;f at rork n Amer
ice, ia the interest of the autocratic
principles cf a foreign ectereignty.
Mr. Hnghes, unhappily, lacked
the moral courage and statesman's
vision which would bat impelled
him to make such a declaration, and
larking this moral stamina, lacking
this faith in freedom and love for
fundamental democracy which
would have impelled him to place
himself on the side of freedom and
the constitution, regardless of any
consequence to hi personal ambi
tions, ho lost th presidency.
Roma's Arraignment of WUion
It ia however doubtful whethet
any or all of these thing would
hav caused a sufficiently serious
deflection on the part of th millions
of patriotic Americana who after
the nomination of Mr. Hughe ex
pected to vote for him, to have
turned the scale in several doubtful
statca had it not been for the mili
tant war on President Wilson waged
by a large section of the Catholic
press, following the threats fretly
expressed before and at the last an
nual meeting of the American Fed
eration of Catholic Societies.
The Catholic bill of grievances
against President Wilson contained
several definite counta which may
be briefly summarized as follows:
(1) Tbs president's reaoluta stand in
favor of the principle of Homo Uule,
liberal democracy, and Don iotorrention
in Mcjico.
(2) Tbe failure of the president to
yield to th ineiitent detnao.ls of Senator
O'Uonnsa that th poatmanter-geDeraJ
shnuld uereis th powr of a Kussia
bureaucrat to th extent of arbitrarily ex
cluding patriotic tr from th mailt
instead of following th democrttio pro
ces of trial bv jury.
(1) Th failure t appoint papal
politician to exalted position wher the
Koman Catholic hierarchy most desired
to have faithful subjects of tbe pop in
trenched, during th pending life and
death stniggle betweea our liberal democ
racy and tb papal aretem.
It will be remembered that before th
appointment of Mr. Brandei to th su
preme bench, and alto after th resigna
tion of Justice Hughes, th papal pro
paganda filled tbe prean with tuggeation
that Victor Dowling, Judge O'Brien, or
torn on of several other named lawyer
who are faithful subject of th pope,
should be elevated to th mprtm bench.1
Evidently a etrrriooiit effort wa made on
th part of the Roman Catholic political
machin to eompaa thit end. Th papal
machine had found Mr. Tat potty in it
hands, and it wa ill prepared for Presi
dent Wilson's wit and stateaman-lik
course in telecting men for th extremely
Important petition who could be counted
upon t b loyal to th principle of fun
damental democracy and whoeo selection
wn dii V their conspicuous ability
rather than a cboic dictated by political
expediency. It will b furthermore r-
(Continucd on Tage 2, Col 2)
2B8B8B8B8B8B8B8B
THE ELECTION
ROMAN BISHOP BRAZENLY DEFIES
THE LAW OF GREAT COMMONWEALTH
Roman-Jfteonr That She is Above the Slate
Strikingly Apparent in Bishop Keiiev's Lawless
Attitude on Georgia
ter to Grand Jury Tells Foreman Just How and
When Inspection of Convents Can Be Made
RECALLS BULL OFPOPE BONIFACE VIII
Defies Law and Shows Rome's Hatred of Popular Sover
eignty by Declaring That Doors Will be Forever Closed
if Jury Fails to Come at The Appointed TimeIs Not
Unlike Age-Long Teachings of Pontiffs Who Have Ever
Bitterly Opposed Democratic Measures
TIAT the theory of our liberal
democracy ia in deadly op
position to the age-long and
tenaciouslf held theory of
i
the Roman Catholic hierarchy
is constantly evinced. The Jes
uitical utterances of leading Ro
man Catholics calculated to allay
alarm are week by week belied by
the overt acts and subversive prac
tices of leading representatives of
the hierarchy and prominent sons of
the church.
That these two theories of gov
ernment are mutually exclusive and
thorefore cannot exist together is so
conclusively proven by an over
whelming array of past and present
day facta that no American who
cares enough for our gnat nation
and for his own children's weal to
seriously study either the history of
Rome, or her present acts under our
flag can escape the conclusion that
we are in the midst of a war to the
dmlh in which either the democracy
of Jefferson and the Revolutionary
fathcrj will eventually triumph or
the papal system as the Romans
confidently expect, will become our
system of government.
The reason that the hierarchy
has decreed that America must be
made "dominantly Catholic" is be
cause "the sovereignty on tho Tiber"
knows that Rome's theory uhich
places the Koman church superior
to the stale cannot flourish vnder
the same free conditions that are
satisfactory to every other church
and which are vital and funda
mental principlee of free democracy.
Borne Defies a Great State
One of the latest typical illustra
tions of Rome's contempt for the
laws made by the legislators of one
of America's great commonwealths
wss given to the world on October
31st of the present year when the
Savannah, Georgia paper published
the Roman hierarchy's brazen de
fiance of the Veazey law recently
enacted by the state of Georgia. In
8
Inspection LawHis Let
this latrtt exhibition of monarchial
Rome'i contempt for the priuriplos
and practices of democracy as ToueJ
br Bishop B. J. Keiley, we sea the
old intolerance to any law the peo
ple see fit to enact which tends to
nlace the Roman church on an equal
footing with other churches, or
which provides that the democratic
theory of jrocrnmcnt, as it relates
to the rights of the state to protect
the weak and defenseless ones from
possible oppression, abuse, or out
rage of any kind, shall apply to
Home as well aa the other great re
ligious communions such aa the
Methodist, Baptist, Presbyterian,
Christian or other churches.
If Homo did not today hold to
the theory so baldly and truthfully
Jut by pope Boniface VIII in his
amous Bull, Unatn Sanctam, she
would hate yielded to the orderly
enforcement of a law pending her
appeal to the supreme courts of
state and nation.
Xo Protestant church in America
would think of - resisting t law
pending appeal. Indeed, we know
of no class in America excepting the
un-American and essentially mon
archial Roman hierarchy which
would thus insolently defy a gresti
commonwealth, while the nature of
the legislation in question is such
that this defiance throws into bold
relief the essentially lawless spirit
of the representatives of tho sover
eign on the Tiber. The Veaiey law
merely turns on the light in the in
terest of defenseless women and
helpless children, and if Tome has
nothing to ronceal, if her Houses of
Good Shepherd and convents arc
what she pretends this legislation
will be of great benefit to her. The
fact that she thus dares to place
herself with the lawlen or criminal
classes it presumvliv4 evidence that
she knous the charges against her
institutions are true. Is not tins
fear of investigation a confession of
guilt?
Is Borne Above State Law?
Home, however, in theory and so
far as she has dared to go in prac
tice, has alwava held and sought to
enforce tho claim that the Roman
church ii above civil government,
and the civil arm must be subserv
ient to the hierarchy or be resisted,
and in strict comformity to this we
find Bishop Keiley defying the legis
lature of Georgia and the law of
that commonwealth as will be seen
from tho following statement pub
lished in the Savannah Mominn
Xert of October 31.
That the Catholic rhnreh la Georgia
will rrst the enforcement of th Vaaier
wi irvii me caiuimnni gi inv vsutta L, . - , . . -
la. irWt. hn..i,lH t,.r rr.n,l 4urr l.?r'P''1' 00n(frrTOHf of the Ko-
ret ion of schools, eonvruta, orphanages
anil homes where dependent rraont ar
. ...
taken ear of, is ahnwa by letters which
lliohop Itrnjamin J. Keilrv of th Dioee
of Havannah ha juat sent out.
While liiahop Keilor, acting npoa aj
vie of counarl, take th position that
th Ycaser law ia aneonstitutional he
dor Dt arbitrarily eloa th door of th
institution under hi jurisdiction ia th
far of the investigator. What h don
do ia to invit om tvil from frad
jurors in each county in vaick tktrt it
swk on tiM'ftwa.
THIS INVITATION MCST BE
TAKEX ADVANTAGE OF, ITOW.
EVER, DUFINO THE FIRST TERM
OF COURT AFTER THE INVITA
TION HAS BEEN EXTENDED,
OTHERWISE THE IO0R3 WILL b
LOt'lED WHEN THE INVESTIGA
TORS CALL, union their action kaa been
J ttified by a decision ol tho state u
fuemt court bearing upon the question of
tho constitutionality of th Vcazcy act
which waa ra4 at the recent acmaion of
th legidatur
No arcond viait win be peraittcd, and
to sm that thia althaatnai as carried out
Btt&ep KU kaa writtea aa official fet
ter to th brail of 3 U laatitstlou
ia Owrs-ia. nadcr his jnrtediettoa, which
eon vithia th toor of U VraiT act.
Hatred of Popular Sorrrslnty
The bishop in thus insolently act
ting the whim and wiah of auto
cratic luimc 0101 the statutes of
the soreuiyn slate cf Georgia, seeks
to justify hi la lnnee unilcr the
pretext that ho regard the la
framed to protect Lflpleea and de
fenseless children from possible
aWea and wrongs aa unconstitu
tional. I'ntil the supreme court
passes on the present law, it is the
lav of Georgia, supreme in its
claim on all law-abiding citiicus
and this defiance of tliat law proves
the truth of the contention or true
Americans and patriots that Home
is at war against the fundamental
principles cf our government, and
the sovereignty of the people.
Boniface's Bull
The bishop while thus defying
the law, adds insult to injury by
actually condescending to remit the
duly qualified slate officuilt to do
thetr eworn duty, one Ume, provided
they act vnder hie conditions and
stipulations. It ia difficult to be
lieve that a representative of the
hierarchy would have the hardihood
to thus insult the legislature and
the governor and express his con
tempt for popular sovereignty and
tho orderly expression of law, in a
democratic commonwealth that ha's
so freclr accorded to hi tin-democratic
church all the freedom and
rights enjoyed by the law-abiding
non-political churches.
But this lawless attitude of .this
representative of the hierarchy is
tamable as showing indifferent and
Rome drugged Protestants .that the
boasts that tbe papacy never changes
is not a vainglorious and shallow
contention. It shows that her theory
and position today ia at heart the
same as when pope Boniface VIII
promulgated his infamous bull,
Unam b'anctam, which contains the
following verbatim utterance.
"In this church and in its power
sre two swords to-wit, a spiritual
and a temporal, and this we are
taught by the words of the GoapeL
Both, therefore, the spiritual
and the material swords, are in the
Sower of the church, the latter iu
eed to be used for the church, the
former by the church, the one by the
priest, the other by the hands of
kings and soldiers, but by the will
and sufferance of the priest. It is
fitting, moreover, that- one sword
should bo under the other, and the
temporal subject to the spiritual
power. We moreover proclaim;
declare, and pronounce that it u
altogether necessary for salvation
for every human Bbing to be subject
to the Roman pontiff.''
How nerfertlv th akn
with the spirit of Bishon KiWa
defiance of the civil law in Georgia I
This contempt for civil power and
assumption of the right of the Ro
man church to refuse to recognize
the law aa enacted by sovereign
state pending an appeal to the high
er courts which the bishop voices
in a letter soon to follow, is merely a
twentieth century expression of pope
Honi face's thirteenth century bull.
In the old days the church had the
power to use and did use, the tem
poral sword. The state was her
bondservant Today the Roman
hierarchy is seeking to make this
.
tnan rurc, anu penuing mai nour,
she finds it impossible to refrain
from expressing her age-long ron
fm;if for popular sovereignty while
emphasizing her contention that
the will of the church is snperier
to the imperial will of the so-
eigns of a great commonwealth aa ,
expressed in a law enacted by a
sweeping majority of the lawmakers
and approved by "the governor of the
state. In this present attempt to
thwart the will of the people and
break up the democratic theory of
government we see THE REAL
SPIRIT OF ROME.
Borne Vs. Georgia 1
When the sovereign people of a
commonwealth pass a measure
through their representatives and
sonators, and that bill receive the
signature of the governor of the
(Continu-
,age 2, CoL sy
v-
