BARJRE DAI LY
s. xrt xs
VOL XX - NO. 210.
RARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1910.
PRICE, OXK CENT.
THE
BRITISH WON ,
MORE GROUND
NEAR ANCRE
20,000 DEPORTED DAILY.
Belgians Being Taken to Germany to Be
Skilled Workeri.
The Hague, via Ixindon, Nov. 18.
Tlio number if Belgians deported by the
Germans up-to-date, according to infor-
mution given to 1 h Associated i'ress
from a reliable source, apparently U
between thirty and forty thousand and
tney are being deported at the rate of
ubunt 2,000 daily.
Antwerp, it is Mid. has bren com
manded to furnish 27,000 men, which is
probably not more than ten per cent of
It able-bodied population, but the com
mune of Lcstnes hag lost nvoro than
20,000 from n total population, includ
ing women and children of 7,000, repre
tenting virtually every able-bodied nun
excepting officials.
The entire Belgian population, iho nar
rator said, is terrorized because the pen-
LondOll Official Report Pi realiao they are entirely helpless.
jurowd or hysterical women ami cnii-b-dflV
jdren gatlior at the railway and recruit -
'ing stations, and many women at Jcmap-
pes threw themselves on the rails to
prevent tb departure of a train of end
Attacks Made Last
Northeast from
mont-Hsme! and
from Beaucourt
Night
Pushed
liack the German Lines,
States
. -lAfX'WDlfri 'grant and had to bo forcibly removed by
(.TJilv.vlArSib LUUIN IrIVilil (Gorman soldier". The men are frequent-
vnTtT DTTT T pdv loaded into cattle car and spend one
YV.ll.rl Atv il Liljrjrt I or two day on the journey. They are
strongly determined to refine to work.
pouer'.iig thar. II tney are nil employed
!n military v.irk they will be compelled
to roplacf, Gesrmar.!; nnd bo forced to
yvrk directly or ind'reclly iijjainst the
Belgfan army and its .'.Mies. The deport
ed C'cn in trains p.'.sirg Enough Liege
an deI-uc.l to hve b,in heard sing
irg tho Marseilles s:id other pe.irtotie
airs.
The oHleem deputized to V.i enroll-
BODY DRAGGED
THREE MILES
Fred Mudgett of Richford
Killed by Central Ver
mont Train
BODY WAS FOUND
NEAR RICHFORD
Evidently the Man Was Ly
ing on Track When
Hit
French and Serbians Are
Continuing Their Envel
opment of Monastir, the
Latter Moving on the
Wpsf ?!inf Ann trip r TPnch iment of the workmen are said to pay
yis'i to ,ario'ie towns ai
Coming from South
.British attack last night resulted in
further progress for General Haig's
troops in the field of their new offensive
movement north of the Anere brook. In
the extension of their, offensive on the
Somme area of northern France, striking
northeast of Bcauniont-Hamcl and
north of BeauWuirt, the British pushed
back tho German lines. In each case,
London announces, the Germans coun
lercd with artillery, heavily shelling
Beanmont-Hamel and turning their guns
also on Ilebuterne.
The entente campaign for Monastir
continues to show progress. The Serin
nns have scored further advance in their
flanking movement in the bend of the
Cerna river, cast of the Macedonian cap
ital, while the French are pushing closer
south of the city. According to Taris,
the Serbians have reached the heights
northwest of Iven, due west of Monastir,
On the south the French are in the out
skirts of Kanena, five miles from Monastir.
BRITISH SUCCESS
CONTINUES IN
EAST AFRICA
Germans Fail in Three Attempts to In
rest Small British Post and Were
Then Defeated by British
Reinforcements.
London, Xov. 18. Further spirited
fighting, with an outcome favorable to
the British, lias taken place in the cam
paign for clearing German East Africa,
according to an official announcement to
day. "After the recent attack by the Ger
mans on Xigominji, the bulk of their
forces," says the statement, "moved
southwest and invested a small British
post, Malangali, failing in three efforts
to capture it. A Jintisn column arrivea
nnd defeated the besiegers, killing and
capturing some and taking booty."
and order the
assembly at the rnilwuy stations of vir
tually all mnles under heavy penalties
for refusal to comply. The wording of
the notices varies in the different parts
of Belgium and northern France. One no.
tice posted in northern France gives
assurance that the men will not be em
ployed under continuous tire. The Ant
werp order notifies students to bring
their books nnd musicians their instru
ments. The authorities promise the men J Mud'ftt
good wages and liberty to remit money); . r. .
i n . f.,,;i;, ; nl. , r'1 "'h
null! vt.IIIUlliy lu 111,11 miiiiiics ill '.-
gium. All of them are offered an oppor
tunity to sign a voluntary agreement to
work. Thev are informed, it was stated,
hat if they refuse to sign they will be
treated worse, but virtually all ileclinc
to do so.
The principal object of the deportation
it was said, appears to be to secure
skilled workers.
Riohford, Xov. 1H. Railroad section
men going to work found early tins
morning beside the track the body of
Fred M'.idgett, aged 55. The body was
so badly mangled that it could be iden
tified only by the clothing and by papers
in the pockets. It was found at a cross
ing near X. V. Ladd's farm in Berk
shire nnd evidently it had been dragged
for three miles. The man was killed by
a Central Vermont train out of St.
Albans last night. The trainmen did not
know of the accident until informed to
day. Evidently the man was lying on the
track when he was hit. The place is
three-fourths of a mile from this vil
lage and i.Jar a tank of the Standard
Oil Co.
The body was taken to the home of
the man's mother. Mrs. .James Mudgett,
an aged lady. Besides his mother, the
man leaves one sinter, Mrs. Stephen Im-
pev of Boston; three daughter, Mrs.
I Corliss Bashaw of Brattleboro, Miss Ola
an assistant teacher in Rich-
h school and Mis? Xettie Mud
gett, who lives nt home, and one son,
Howard Mudgett.
A BOON FOR STUDENTS.
., ...
One-half of Men in University of Ver
mont May Have Board Paid.
Burlington, Nov. 1H. Half of the male
students in the Umveraity of erinon
wilt be having a large part i( their lxiar
bills paid by the federal government, if
as the university's military instructor,
(.'apt. Stuatt A. Howard, believes, the
next Congress appropriates the funds
which it neglected to do in June to carry
out certain provisions of the national ue
tense act.
Vermont and Rutgers, are colleges In
eluded among nine additional points
where unit of the proposed new oili
era reserve corps will bn located. -If
Congress does not appropriate the money
it will be nullity ma the provisions of the
bill in (Miction.
The government in supposed to allow
about $100 a mail for the academic year,
esides a uniform, lo be eligible, the
institution must require two years mill
tary training besides service in summer
camps for two four-week periods. The
university battalion numbers 208 men,
NEW PARALYSIS CASE
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
A LARGE ZEPPELIN
Airship Brought Down Near Sarny and
the Crew of 16 Were Captured,
Petrograd Reports.
rctrograd, via London, Xov. 18. Rus
sian troops near farnv, southeast of
Piask, have brought down a large Zep
pelin airship. The crew of 16 was cap
tured.
RUMANIANS WIN.
Have Made Progress on One Section of
Transylvania Front.
Bucharest, via London, Xov. IS. The
Rumanians have made considerable prog
ress on the Transylvania front in the re
gion of Dragoslavele, the war office an
nounces.
EXHAUSTING WILSON'S PATIENCE,
ITALY PROTESTS
THE NEW POLAND
lias Joined with Other Entente Powers
in Declaring Against Act of Ger
many in Proclaiming In
dependent State.
Rome, via. Paris. Xov. IS. The Italian
government has joined with the other
entente powers in protesting against the
n.uion of Germany , in proclaiming Rus
sian Poland as an independent state. Pre
mier Boselli sent a telegram of protest
to Premier Sturmer of Russia.
Teutons Said to Have Been Warned They
Are Doing It.
London, Xov. 18. The visit of Baron
Burian, AiiKtro-Hungarian foreign minis
ter to Berlin, is stated to have been for
the purpose of holding a conference with
Dr. Von Bethmann-Hollweg, the German
imperial chancellor, regarding the rela
tions of the two empires with the United
States, according to a dispatch under a
Berne date given out yesterday by the
Wireless Tress. The question unibr dis
cussion, says the dispatch, was whether
the submarine campaign should be con
tinued in its present form with the pos
sibility of a rupture of relations with
Washington or whether it should be mod
ified.
"During the last few days," odds the
dispatch, "the German government has
received a plain verbal warning that
President Wilson's patience was on the
v?rg of exhaustion."
QUINCY SHIPYARDS
GET BIG CONTRACT
Will Build Eight Torpedo Boat Destroy
ers for United States Government
San Francisco Works to
Build Six.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 18. Awards
for the construction of H torpedo boat
destroyers, authorized by a naval appro
priation bill, were announced to-day. The
Fore River Ship Building corporation will
construct eight and the L'nion Iron Works
company ot .an rrancisco trie otlier six.
Has Been Discovered in Burlineton. a
Three-Year-Old Girl Having It.
Burlington. Xov. 18. Dr. F. J. Ennis
city health officer, last night announced
a new case of poliomyelitis, independent
of any other reported, ao far as known.
Anna Larow, three-year-old daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Larow of 81 Xorth
street, is the fourth true carthis year of
the disease in Burlington. Dr. C. K.
.Johnson, who was called Thursday, no
ticed a weakness of the left leg, which,
the parents nay, first showed itself on
Monday. He reported the case at once
to the health officer, who took the usual
measures of quarantine, etc. Dr. Ennis
confirmed Dr. Johnson' diagnosis yester-
lay.
The distance separating the Larow resi
dence from the residences of the other
eases, and the lack of possibility of per
sonal contact, make the health oflieer
sure the case is brand new. There were
two abortive cases, so-called, in the city
besides the four, but tho two never de
veloped into paralysis.
DISCUSSED TUBERCULOSIS.
DEUTSCHLAND HELD
TO BE RESPONSIBLE
Papers in Libel Action Against the Sub
marine Were Filed To-day By
Owners of Lost
Tug.
Xew Haven, Conn., Xov. IS. Papers in
a libel action to recover for the loss of
the tug Thomas A. Scott, jr., were tiled
to-day against the Deutschland, which
sank the tug, by attorneys for the tug
owners. The libel alleges that the
Deutschland suddenly sheered to the star
bo? fib on a parallel course, that the
de,. w.nd the wheel of the submarine
were not under competent authority, that
the submarine did not keep out of the
way of the tug, did not have proper
lights displayed and that proper consid
eration was not given to the force and
action of the current.
And What Suggestion to Make to Ver
mont Legislature.
Rutland, Xov. 18. A joint meeting of
the state tuberculosis hospital commit
tee and the legislative committee of the
Vermont Society for the Prevention of
Tuberculosis was held at the Berwick
in this city yesterday afternoon. The
purpose of the gathering was to see what
action it is best to suggest to the next
legislature in furtherance of the cam
paign to stamp out tuberculosis and to
draw up plans to secure better co-oper-the
work.
Those present at the gathering were:
Dr. John Blodgett of Bellow Falls.
chairman of the state committee on pre
vention of tuberculosis! H. W. Slocum of
Burlington, secretary! Dr. C. F. Dalton
of Burlington, secretary of the state
board of health: Dr. C. S. Caverly of
Rutland, president of the health board i
Frank E. Howe of Bennington, F. C.
Martin of Bennington and S. llollister
Jackon of Barre.
WOUNDED MAN
DISAPPEARED
Arthur Gibson of Manches
ter, N. II., Hurt Near
Essex Junction
WAS DISCOVERED BY
ANOTHER HUNTER
Latter Went for Aid and
Then Could Not Find
the Location
Essex Junction, Xov. 18. Arthur Gib
son of Manchester, X. If., who was re
ported wounded while hunting in the
woods near here yesterday and unable
to move, was the ohject of a search to
day. Gibson's plight was discovered by
Walter Webster of this town, who said
he found Gibson by a wall, wounded in
the hip where he had accidentally shot
himself. Unable to bring Gibson out of
the woods alone, Webster went to the
nearest farm, which was the Charles
Gibbs place, for help. When he returned
he was unable to find the wounded man.
It is believed that Gibson may have been
assisted by some other hunter to some
farm house, but efforts to locate him
have thus far been unsuccessful.
Gibson was visiting his aunt, Mrs.
William Foote, in South Burlington. He
ft her home at about noon vesterdav
o go hunting. She warned him against
ccidents and he lailghinglv brushed
side her fears, saving, "Oh, I won't get
shot." Mrs. Foote got a telephone nies-
nge last night from Mr. Webster, noti
fying her of the accident.
The place where Webster says he came
across Gibson was in the woods on the
Essex Center plain. Ue understood that
lbson received his wound while crawling
WEEK'S SEARCH FOR
ST. JOHNSBURY
BOY OF NO AVAIL
Samuel Sevigney, Aged 14, Was Last
Seen Riding Bicycle Toward Lyndon
villc It Is Feared He Died
from Exposure. (
St. Johnsbury, Xov. 18. All efforts to
Imd a trace of Samuel Sevigney, the M
year-old son of Alphoiise Sevigney, who
lett home late Sunday afternoon ruling
a bicycle, and just before tho 1 l-ineli
snowfall of Sunday night, have failed
The police authorities of all the surround
ing towns have been notilied and have
been assisting the local authorities, in the
search. hen he left home he wore only
light summer clothing, cotton blouse,
striped black and white, and black shoes
and stockings. When last seen he was
riding up Railroad street toward Lvndon
villc. Those who say they saw him at
the time are certain he wore no overcoat
or anv outer garment.
Although a description of the bov and
of the wheel he was riding lias been
spread over the surrounding country not
clue has been found which would give
the searchers an idea as to whnt has be
come of him.
He had just recovered from a two
weeks' illness which his parents' think
possibly mav have affected his mind, for
they say he has often told them when an
idea to do n thing came into his mind he
had to do it.
A no trHce of the bicycle, has been
found, nor any word concerning him re
ceived from the farms of the locality it
is feared he may have wundoted into the
woods after nightfall, which, with the
heavy snowfull and severe cold of the
past few days, would probably result in
his death from exposure.
DEATH OF ISAAC D. BEMIS.
Well Known Resident of East Burke Died
in St. Johnsbury Hospital.
St. Johnsbury, Xov. 18. Isaac D. Be
nds, 75 Years of age, passed awav at
Brightlook hospital. Friday afternoon at
2 :.'(() o'clock, following an operation. He
was a resident of hast Burke, but was
well known all over northern Vermont
and Xew Hampshire where for a number
of years he had been a successful dry
goods Halesman. For 17 years he was a
merchant in East Burke, coming there
from Brownington. where he had owned
a store. He was one of the youngest men
OFFER POWER
AT LESS RATE
Central Corporation Asks
City Council for Right
to Enter Barre
STEAM AUXILIARY
TO BE AT SO. BAr ?E
V
r
Rate of 1.7 Cents
watt Was " ; )m
iV
KilO-
through a fence, the gun being discharged j ' '''" k,'nt ,' "t" legislature, going
accidentally. Searching parties went out
last night and again to-day but have not
found the place.
MRS. WILFORE'S FUNERAL
Was Held This Afternoon at Her Late
Home.
The funeral of Mrs. Paul Wilfore,
whose death occurred at her home, 215
South Main street Tuesday forenoon,
was held at the house this afternoon at
2 o'clock. Rev, Edgar Cropland, pastor of
the First Presbvtcrian church, officiating, i
CARELESSNESS OF
HUNTER LEADS TO
SERIOUS INJURY
Clarence Starrett of Lynn, Mass., While
on Hunting Expedition in Plym
outh, Vermont, Shoved Rifle
Butt First Into Wagon.
Plymouth. Xov, 18. Clarence Starrett
of Lynn, Mass.. was terribly injured yes
terday when he accidentally received a
rifle bullet in the abdomen, the ball tear
ing away a part of one kidney. He was
hurried to the Mary Hitchcock hospital
at Hanover, X'. H where physicians said
that he has' a fighting chance to recover.
Mr. Starrett, who spends the summers
with his family at Plymouth Corners,
went deer hunting yesterday and upon
his return went into a shed with the in
tention of placing his gun in a wagon.
VERMONT MAN LEADS.
NEW PEACE RUMOR
STARTS WITH SWISS
W. B. C. Stickney President New Eng
land Federation of Harvard Clubs.
Boston, Xov. 18. William B. C. Stick
ney of Rutland, Vt., was elected presi
dent of the Xew England Federation of
j Harvard clubs at its annual meeting here
; last night. Other officers chosen includ
ed :
V ice-president, J. S. Ford of Exetef.
X. H., and secretary, Charles C. Dowl of
Fall River.
Pirx.rf Haa It That Various Neutrals Are
Planning to Invite Belligerents
Into a Peace Conference.
'ferlin, Xov. 17, via London, Xov. 18.
The mo.-ement for peace negotiations, ac
cording to reports from the Swies fron
tier printed in Koelnischo Zeitung, is
about, to assume definite shape in the
'rin of a joint call from various neutral
guvemments to the belligerents, asking
them tc send delegates to a peace con
ference The reports assert that veral
ICiiropoar, neutrals are already in touch
with the American government and that
various Uligercntg have Iieen sonnded on
the proposition of conference.
' DROPPED BOMBS ON MUNICH.
Germany Snow-Bonnd.
London, Xov. 18. Germany is in the
grip of winter, the Exchange Telegraph
company's Berne correspondent reports.
Several trains trom ueriin are snow-!thc darkness, which was
noun a nejir.ine .-swiss ironiier, wncre ex
treme cold prevails.
French Aritor Made Rouud Trip Flight
of 435 Miles.
Taris. Xov. ;s. The wer office com
munication issued last evening says:
"The aviator, Capt. tie Beauchamp,
started this moring at 8 o'clock in tbo
direction of Munich, where he arrived at
noon. He dropped several bombs on the
station in retaliation for the bombing of
the open city of Amiera a few days ago.
Capt. de Beauchamp then landed at Santa
Iona I Piave in Italy, 20 kilometer
north of Venice, after havii crossed the
OIUNGE
Don't forget the social given by the
girls Wednesday evening at the hall. A
good time is assured. Everybody cor
dially invited.
Miss Lois Xelson spent Saturday and
Sunday with her grandmother, Mrs.
Adella Xelson, in Barre.
Mrs Wvnes Tucker is much better.
The Kimball Corner school will give an
entertainment at the town hall Friday
evening, Xov. 24. The proceds w ill be.
'ied to buy supplies for their school
house. Mr. E. I. Flanders accompanied Gra-t-a
Hesrdon to her home in Barre for
the week-end.
The registered .Jerseys at IL I. Whit
comb's auction went at a very low fig
ure, considering the grade of the ani
on's. John Benjamin of Berlin bid them
-ff.
Mrs. B. J. Ihirklirg of Barre was a
visitor in town Thursday. I
Gladvs Ki.-har.lon made a Itusines
COLLISION AN ACCIDENT.
i
No Design Discovered in Mishap to the
Deutschland.
Xew London, Conn., Xov. IS. The coll
ision which caused the merchant sub
marine Deutschland to abandon her re
turn voyage to Germany almost at its
outset early yesterday, when the convoy
ing tug T. A. Scott, jr., was sunk with a
crew of five men, was the subject of fed
eral investigation yesterday afternoon.
The United States inspectors of steam
vessels, headed by Capt. V.. E. Withey,
heard, through witnesses, of tho condi
tions under which the submarine, slipping
out of the harbor in the darkness so th.Tt
ahe might submerge in neutral waters be
fore daybreak, ran down tho tug which
was acting as her protettor off Race rock,
just outside this port. This testimony
came from Capt. Paul Koenig of the
Deutschland, from F. W. Krapobl, his
chief officer, and from Hans Kleese, his
engineer. It was given in secret, but it
became known through statements out
side the chamber that, the collision was
an accident. Survivors who would dis
cuss the matter were agreed that it was
due to a combiantion of swift currents
which carried the tug olT.its course and
across the bow of the submarine, and to
to be the
Dcutschland's medium of safety, but
which instead prevented ready observa
tion of the danger ahead. Capt. Koenig
would eay to questioners only:
"It's a terrible thing to lose those good
men. 1 leel it deeply, lou must excuse
me."
! ('..., : .... l,A .:in I... t, I. ..
The bearers were: Irank St. John of , 4.
Williamstown. Orville Bushev of South ' ' 1. lAl . " ,
Harre and Edward Venner, sons-in law
of the deceased, and Arthur Cota'of this
city. There was a profusion of (lowers.
Interment was made in Hope cemetery.
TALK OF THE TOWS
Barre and Montpelier Knights of Co
lumbus will meet in this city Tuesday
evening for the third of a series of tour
ments in pool and cribbage. Barre coun
cil will be the host at its club rooms in
the Scampinr buildinT.. In the second
tournaments lat Tuesday, the Montpe
lier knight s nearly compassed the margin
won by the Barre council in the first
meet.
H. C. Stockwel, who has been employed
a a solicitor for the Consolidated Light
ing Co. for some time, completed his du
ties to-dav and will visit at his former
home in Meredith. X. H
The hammer caught upon something r
the rifle was utschargetl, the Ai vi bu
entering the abdomen at one side, teft
ing aVay the muscles, injuring the kid
ney and coming out of the body in his
back. It is said that the injured man
was not accustomed to handling firearms.
to Multiplier from Willoughbv, where he
was a rsident nearly 25 years, his father
building the old Willoughby Lake house,
winch burned a few vcars ago,
Mr. Hemis was born in Lvndon Center.
Sept. 13. 1841, the son of Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo Bemis. The family moved soon
to Willoughby, where tho Lake house was
built. Mr. Bemis lived there for nearly
2" years, marrying Kathcrine Dennison
dishing of East Burke on June 30, 1S0.1.
Three children were born of the union,
Caroline Hebecca, Fred Gushing and Cor
nelia Mabel. Soon after the marriage
they moved to Bostjn, where Mr. Bemis
was clerk in the Adams house.
A few years after the death of his wife
he again married on July 2S, 1887, Mrs.
Betsy Walter of East Burke.
At different times he kept store at
Brownington and at East Burke, stay
ing in the latter place 17 years, or until
his health forced him to take up an out
side occupation.
He was a member of the M. E. church
and was for many years a steward of the
church and superintendent of the Sunday
school.
He is survived by two daughters. Mrs.
Caroline Xovcs, Miss Cornelia Bemis; a
brother. Elias. of Island Pond, and a sis
ter, Mrs. John Titttle of Uaterbury,
Conn.
MALDEN 'IAN KILLED
BY HIS PISTOL
WHILE HUNTING
Harry M. Hardwick Was Occupying
Camp Near Connecticut Lake in
New Hampshire When He
Was Shot.
fY1nl,roob V IT Vov 1 TfarrT f
before embark- Tru,.,i.jt nf mhi,i ms. frpHKiirer nf
ing in a new field. Mr. Stockwel! has ii,wtr,n i fre.ini nnmrninr n,t the
several positions under consideration and I Moin,vk Dairy company, was" killed by
TALK OF THE TOWN
expects to make a decision in the near
future. He is succeeded in the employ of
tho Consolidated company by Fred Tyler.
who was formerly engaged as the com
pany's storekeeper.
Members of the Waahoo r.raves bas
ketball team held their first practice of
the Reason at the Church street grm.
last evening, when team A lined up
against team B for about an hour's prac
tice. THe team is being run under the
guidance of Captain Monc, who has a
better aggregation ot ball tossers than
th Waahoos had in their line-up last
winter. Ther have already manv games
oq their schedule, with many open dates
to fill. The first game ot the season
will probably be plaved against Xorth-
field on Thanksgiving night.
C. H. Thompson of Brattleboro. whe
was in ihe city last evening to present
the claims of the Central Power Co. be
fore the city council, left later for Gran-
the discharge of an automatic pistol he
was handling at a hunting camp near
the First Connecticut lake, 30 miles from
here, last night. His companions, who
were in an adjoining room when the shot
was fired, found him dead. They ex
pressed the opinion that the shooting
was accidental.
ONLY 64 BUCKS
REPORTED KILLED
IN THREE DAYS
Extra Depth of Snow at This Time of
the Year Handicaps Hunters Wash
ington County Leads in the Total
Thus Far.
Lvndonville, Xov. 18. Fish and Game
Woodsville, X. H., business visitors in
the city yesterday were B. K. Eastman,
John Richardson and Frank L. White
Joseph Gay returned to his home in
Burlington this morning, after visiting
friends on Prospect street during the
past few days.
Xed Crawley, who has been visiting
relatives on Xorth Main street during
the past week, left for his home in Wi
nonski this morning.
Mrs. Matilda Franzi. who has been
visiting friends and relatives in Water
bury through the past month, returned
to her home on Berlin street last night.
David Klenk, who has been spending
several days in the city on business,
visiting while h-re at the home of J.
Capio of upper Washington street, left
this noon for his ho'nie In Bulla lo.
Edward Carleton of Boston arrived in
the city yesterday and will spend sev
eral days in Barre and Montpelier on
a business erand. Mr. Carleton will
stay at the home of Frank II. Carleton
on South Main street during his sojourn
in the city.
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Gove, who have
been staving in Barre through the sum
mer and fall months, left this noon for
Cheaper power for Barre's granite man
ufacturing industry is promised by the
Central Power corporation in its request
for a permit to extend transmission and
distribution lines along the city streets
from a steam auxiliary and transformer
station in Soutli Barre. At a special
meeting of the city council last evening
Charles IT. Thompson, general manager
and agent for the corporation, and B. A.
Sumner of Montpelier, another promoter
of the enterprise, presented the claims of
their organization with the result that
the councilors voted to draft a tentative
franchise to lie submitted at a subsequent
meeting for consideration. The motion.
ni"d e by Alderman Glysson and seconded
by Alderman ShurtlelT, was supported by
unanimous vote.
Briefly, the Central Power corporation
proposes to supply manufacturers in
15arre with power at the rate of one and
seven-tenths cents per kilowatt as
gainst the present rate of two cents per
kilowatt. Moreover, the minimum charge
gainst which manufacturers have con
tended for some time does not enter into
the scheme of operation proposed by the
promoters. A Hat rate will be inaugurat
ed the moment the franchise is granted.
Power for the Barre industry will be sup
plied from a waterfall and power plant
at East Miildlebury and lines strung on
steel tower poles will traverse such towns
as Ripton, Lincoln', Hancock, Granville,
Warren. Northfield and Barre Town, in
all a distance of 32 miles in extending
the power to Barre.
Inasmuch as the franchise granted the
corporation by the state public service
commission restrains it from selling elec
tricity for lights in Barre, that aspect of
the extension project was not considered
long, although Messrs. Thompson and
Sumner joined in stating that an effort ,
would be made to have the charter
amended if it can be shown that there is
a demand for electricity by light consum
ers in this city. Alderman Rossi said
that the city's contract for street lights
does not expire for 10 rears. '
W. W. Walker, a civil engineer, was
present with a blueprint of Barre, along
which was traced a yellow line, showing
the streets to be traversed by the pro
posed power lines. The line indicated one
power unit extending from South Barre
to South Main to Boynton to Circle to
West Patterson street, along Trow ave
nue and across Washington street to Xel
son. thence to Tremont, down Sheridan,
Wellington to Merchant to Summer,
thence to North Seminary and .ortn
Main streets as far north as Jones Bros.'
plant. The other proposed line will fol
low near the Central Vermont railroad
track leading out of South Barre on the
west side of the river to iairview street,
onto Prospect street, into Burnham's
meadow, thence along the Central Ver
mont trackage to Blackwell street, thence
north until it completes the circuit at
Jones Bros.' plant.
In the event that the public service
commission should see tit to amend the
corporation's charter to include lighting
service, Mr. Sumner said that the de
crease in cost of electric lighting to the
consumer would be in proportion to the
figure quoted in underselling for power
service. the waterian at r.ast .uionie
burv. he said, is capable of developing
12.5IH) horsepower and the proposed aux
iliary steam plant at South Barre will
augment this total by 7,500 horsepower.
If present plans ot the corporation attain
fruition, the line will lie completed by
July 1, 1017, although II the auxiliary
service is introduced the service may be
available a month earlier.
Replying to an inquiry from Alderman
Rossi, Mr. Sumner, who assumed the du
ties of spokesman for the new concern
when Mr. Thompson was compelled to
leave, stated that competing power com
nanies in central Vermont opposed the
granting of the charter at the hearing in
Middlebnry and that the question or
erant nr the charter hnallv turned on tne
I necessity of another power company in
mer and tall months, lett this noon tori" , ... .
, , . , Barre. The public service commission, he
Boston, where they will remain until ' I u-i i- .f :. ;,,
w i i i I said, held that while lighting is pnmar-
spring. Mr. Cove has been a salesman " . j i-.I:
uy a convenience auu iiujiivhvii
CHARGES CAPT. KOENIG.
Says Manslaughter Accusation May Be
Brought.
Providence, Xov. IS. It is possible
that charge of manslaughter will be
brought against Paul Koenig. captain of
the Deutschland. by Capt, Allen Gurney
of the firm of Miller A Gurney, marine
brokers, in this city.
Capt. Allen Gurnev is a nephew of
Capt. John H. Gurney of Xw Ixwdon,
who Iot his life in the collision of the
tug boat T. A. Scott, jr.. with the
Deutschland, yesterday morning.
According to CapL Allen Gurnev.
charges of manslaughter might be bM-d
on the alleged illegal operation of the
Ieiit-x hland in American waters. It i
said that when the leut bland enteral
Xew I.nd"n harbor she was running
ny, r. y.. to oiscuss power matters w m t.iniiionpr Titcomb announced to-day
a concern dependent upon elec trieity tor i thgt dwr wcre r(.ported lo him ,
lis power. I loniuirin ,i (lip r.tfsi .wm-
pring
for the Oldsmobile company during his
sojourn in Barre. Mr. and Mrs. Gove
will return to Barre next spring.
Reports from Montpelier reached Barre
to-day. to the effect that Mrs. Blanche
Badord, who underwent an operation at
Hcaton hospital last Tuesday, remains
in about the same condition. The case
proved to be a great deal more serious
than was at first thought. It will prob
ably be several weeks lu fore she can
resume her duties at the Park theatre
as pianist.
Carroll's orchestra closed a contract
vesterdav to furnish music at the Elks'
- , ... l l-.-ll. l J..-: il. th-miii i
dlebury development plan are also inter- " " ... . . -.. . . ... J annual ball at Malone, N. on Dec. 2H
estcH in a northstate water riirht that i . : . . ...land Ihe dance, which is an annual
- - mi Ufa Tr no nnfiui. lint-nu 1 1 i tip ifiini .
I otf.i it- ic (inn if tfit litiT l.'itli'itt in iinrvnf
jkilled throughout the state during tliat i Nl,w -ork. ,, , arnlorVi vU,,TO it j,
;time. as many of the report are tdl j ,.,,, is tl, U "j. dllIUV
north of New Yirk City. The orchestra
returned to harre trom Richmond this
the way. Four does were also re-
lHirted by wardens as killed. The snow
is a foot deep in the northern counties
may he used to supply manufactories
with their motive power and another
olant. in the town of Johnsnn is said to
. -1 , , t . , .. , c . i . . , i on
oe avaiiaDie lor me ui-r ui ine i i-nnm
Power Co. by arrangement with the In-
. . . r- . -
.ernationa. .aprr v. I of the state and hunting has been more
The women of the fMd ladies amuse- difr ,t than ,. The dwr kilM are
ment committee held a surprise party at . . , , . , . . ...
,. , i . -:n ... i " t said to lie fat and in good condition,
ihe home of Mrs. W illmm Stephen of, ... ... . p .. , . .
Pl.-asant street bt evening, in honor of! .h.ngton county, which reported
Mrs. Xellie Bi.nehi of North Main "r T'mftm "f'"
street. It came as a complete surprise j ,ne toUI 1,h .19 ou ? lhe
to Mrs. Hianchi. who Ud n.. id. of "- -
ines in city streets should be discour
aged, power is a necessity and healthy
competition is to be desired. He stated
also that steam is being used by consum
ers in Barre and Barre Town to the ex
tent of 6.000 horsepower and in many in
stances for the reason that consumers
preferred to manufacture their own pow
er because electric power prices are too
high.
Alderman Shurtleff thought the city
could War with t nuisance of addition
al poles in some of the highways if cheap
er power could 1m? obtained for its leading
industry. Other members of the council,
including Aldermen Glysson and Rey
nolds, concurrid in this view. The flat
rate appealed to Alderman Glysson, who
went on to tell of the minimum ra
asked bv the company now supplying
. . . I A .lUInn .mIa
power. It IS arriiK"' "n """k
what was in store for lur until she ar
(Addison 2. Bennington 4. Caledonia 1,
! rived at the home
whom the partv a being held. Twelve;
members of the committee were
.tf. The capiain Ibus co.cred a !-; trip lo rnni;!n Id IhursJay.
taco f 700 koa.? Vers (ap prmtatairljp I.yrford Mimr is Iuk! from io woik i'-h aer light reversed, contrary, tu He
AM nil." ia CoriatU. raies rf American waters.
and was told for i' hiticnoen z. r.ssex i, rrankiin . i.rana , jmc ot
bemo Tm-Mre-lsle '. Lamoille 3, Orange A. Orleans 0, 'through
m a . . t
morning, where thev plaved at the sixth I he said, and gave it as nis opinion in
of the winter series being held at Rich- j there are manufacturers held to the mint
mond hall under the auspices of the j mum rate w ho are paying 'for more power
young opi;. of the town. than they are uing. He thought that
" A fair crowd attended the auction sal- .the pre-ent minimum charge is something
conducted by Dan 'A. I'errv of the D. A. j like this: 1 for eight horsepower.
Perrv Real" Estate agency at the farm:!- '-r H horsepower and ?1 for 5rt
of Harlev Whitconih of (,. Center ' horsepower or more, all nougn ne ssia t n.
vesterdav. Mr. hitcomb had a nice , figures nugm .. -
rcgiMcn-d Jerseys
i ue ring, the rows
to
ell in.
A!
drive d. rmaii Bruce figured that the price quot--,
f.,r e.l bv Mr. Sumner would mean a rcduc-
re present, j Rutland 2. Washington 19, Windham 12, ! prices ranging from ?o7 to Stfi. Outsid-j tion of IS pr rent to the consumer. Mr.
and a bounteous supply of refresh -Windsor . i ers who Had a tew prad'-s to dispose ol , Minimr ..i ........... ....... .
ment was served bv Mrs. Stephen. A The total number of deer killed dire- j were allowed to put cows in the ring. : corporation to t tie one and eeen tentna
program of severs! musical nnmt r. was i ing the 1915 pcn season was 6.ti4C. of j and the grades were bid off at pri.-.-; i-te in the franchise
enjoyed bv the ladies. Mrs. Kianrhi was which one-half approximately were does. ; running from 2i no to fV. Hay sold st Alderman Healy. who was ahent dur-
..D-J-ntcd a nie handbag, the present- TH vear the law does nit allow thd very good pruts, it being bid oil at
tion being Kadtf by lira, faulkner. UKipg of docs, f 11.50 a ton. . Continued on fourth paS"),
