TOOT
1 w
it i i
4.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Pair with rising temperature to-day and
to-morrow; moderate west winds.
Highest temperature eiterdiy, 37 2 lowest, a;.
Detailed weather, null and marine report on pact 13.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 87.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 1916. Copyright. m. by the Sun Printing and Publishing Anoclatlon.
62 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ARMY DEFEATS
NAVY 15 TO 7 IN
THRILLING GAME
Oliphnnt Makes 113 Yard
Dash in the Run Buck
From Kickoff.
i 80,000 IN BOWL SEE : HftTFl f.IMT PAYR
. . I1V1UU WWUW1 I 1I1M
I Alt Bt AT HARVARD
ANN APOLIS BEATEN BY
A' WHIRLWIND-START
West Point's Great Player
Also Kicks a Field
Goal.
Who Crosses Crimson Line for
First Time in Nine Years
Score 0 to a.
MIDSHIP3IEN THEN
SHOW BIG REVERSAL
During Latter Half They
Keep "Generals" on
the Defensive.
Ynlo defeated Harvard In their an
nual football gamo ycitenlny by the
scoro of 6 3.
It was the first tlma lit nine years that
thn Blue had crossed the Crimson goal
line and 80,000 spectators In the great
bowl at New I In von, assembled by rail
road and tmllcy and uutomoblte from all
New York and New England, cheered
the victors heartily no mailer what their
sympathies.
Neville scored the history making
touchdown for Yale In the second quar
ter. Harvard got It three point by a
field coal kicked by Robinson from
Yale's twenty. eight yard line In the
first quarter. There were no scores In
thelast half.
Yale's victory was deserved, accord
ing to the best opinion of football ex
pert n. Her team was superior Individ
ually nnd in a machine. Harvard's for
ward passes went wrong, and what
would have been a touchdown by Casey
was not allowed became of holdlns by
the Harvard forwards.
New Haven was the scene of a wild
demonstration of Joy by the undergrad
uates and the alumni last nlcht,.
(For details of the game ses Section 3.)
$15 FOR HALL ROOM
10,000 Persons Forced to Seek
' Outside Accommodations
Over Nip-lit.
U-BOATS LURK OFF
NEW ENGLAND COAST
TIIEATHES ALL SOLD OUT
Every Table in Big Itcstau
rants Engaged Days in
Advance.
FOUR AIRMEN FLEW
65 MILES TO GAME
With some slight assistance from bis
ttes of the Array team, young Mr.
Elmer Ollphant of Brucevllle, Knox
county, Ind., defeated the plucky, hard
nrhttnij Navy eleven at tho Polo
Grounds yesterday afternoon by the
score of IS to 7.
It cannot be said that the phenome
sil Ollphant alone brought about tho
victory for the service school at West
Point, because the young man who
crowds 171 pounds of whnlcbonc sinew
Within S feet and 7 Inches of height
eeuldn't be every place nt once and be
cause a lonc rangy lad named Mc
Ewen was a source; of Infinite misery
to the Navy partisans; but without
Ollphant another story, probably,
would have to le told.
Without Ollphant to contend with, the
Navy might have snatched victory from
looming defeat; might, nt least, have
ttrned the honors of n drawn battle:
but tach speculations are ns fruitless
is wondering how Waterloo would have
resulted had there' ttftajiv .suokau-ruiad.
Lieuts. Alexander and Will
iam Thaw and C. 11. Reyn
olds Saw Yale Win.
Steamship Lines Warned of
German Submarines Near
United States.
New Yoik, which has more and larger
hotels than any other city In the world.
witnessed nn unprecedented situation
last night, for every room was full ; ball
rooms were turned Into dormitories, cor
ridors were lined with cots, every place
big enough for a guest was put to use
and In the end It was estimated that
10,000 persons' had to seek furnisned
rooms In Chelsea, the West Side and
even far uptown. Many Instances of
transients paying JIG for a hall bedroom
were reported.
The thousands of unsuspecting stran
gers who came Into the city last night
by train or by automobile from New
Haven expecting to upend a hilarious
week end were bitterly disappointed.
When they sought hotel rooms they were
turned away: when they tried to buy
tneatre seats, they found the houses
sold out: when they sought to make
reservations for tables In the White
Way restaurants they were told that
every table had been taken days ago.
And finally, when the motorists tried to
tlnd garage room for their cars they
were met with the same conditions. So
many out of town automobiles were here
that Uie garages In mldtown began
turning away patrons early In the night.
Meat to Other Cities.
Some of the hotel proprietors saw the
situation coming. Then have been do
ing an enormous business since the be
ginning of autmun, and when their cal
endars showed two big football games,
some conventions nnd a shopping sea
son for tho last Saturday In Novem-
The rumor that two Oerman subma
rines are off tho New England coast
wag confirmed yesterday here by the
office of tho British Consul-Ocneral.
An official of the consulate said the
news of the presence of the U-boats
In steamship lanes near the coast was
unfortunately true. Steamship offices
operating, boats under the llrltlsh.
Trench and Italian flags also received
warning.
Steamships of the allied countries
bound to the United States from Europe
have undoubtedly been warned by this
time of the submarine danger by the
llrltlsh Admiral at Halifax or Bermuda,
and It la probable that they are avoid
ing the usual steamship lanes. The
Cunarder Pannonla, which left London
on November 11 and will reach hero
to-morrow, and the Tuscanla, from Olas
gow, which will probably arrive on Tues
day, will take a more southerly course
several hundred miles longer In order
to avoid Herman torpedoes.
It Is conjectured that one or more
submarines will lurk near the Nan
tucket Lightship, as did the U-53 on
her recent successful raid. Possibly
ono of the Oerman raiders will crulso
further north In an effort to sink a
transnort laden with Canadian soldiers
or to attack the numerous supply vessels
leaving Canadian ports.
The French steamship Touralne,
which sailed for Bordeaux yesterday,
went warned fully of the danger, and
will probably alter her course.
BEL REPORTS VILLA
ARMY IN CHIHUAHUA
American General Hears That
Bandits Succeed in Third
Attack.
WIHE SERVICE CUT OFF
Villistas Also Said to Have De
feated Murguia's Cavalry
Near Santa Rosalia.
WAR ON GERMANY AND
BULGARIA DECLARED BY
VENIZELOS GOVERNMENT
First Delivery of Arms Demanded of Greece by Entente
Allies Consists of Ten Batteries of Mountain
Guns Situation Grave.
New Haven, Conn., Nov. 23. Four of
the spectators of the Yale-Harvard
game this afternoon came here from
Mlneola, L. I., this morning In two air-
pirnics. i ncy arc j.icui, c.i.c , oer Knew mini m exii-ri:.. oo ... ,
Thaw of the First Signal Corps, N. Q. were compiled of the rooms uvallablo In
N. Y.. who carried with him his """"'" "'"1 -l.V""" ""..'..
brother, Lieut. William Thaw of the
French Flying Corps, who Is here from
France on n furlough, and C. H. Rey
r.olds, who brought a mechanician.
In spite of the forty mile wind they
encountered on the way they arrived
In ample time to have luncheon before
they went to the game. They had left
Mlneola. sfxTy-flve miles away -bp- air
line, at 10 o'clock In the morning, The
might. Bt least, have ! ,rrn WU remain here all night and ex-
toward tho Yale Howl.
pect to fly back to
morning.
Lieut. Thaw and Reynolds had not
s 1t.t. Intontlnnu nf ml:lnr
et chain. Ollphaat was the evil genius ,h fl,hJ f,ut ,. ,,(I panned It for
f the Navy this year, as he has Wn for I cvern, ,,.. tI1 furnU,h mtle atrial
three years past .superman of foot- eJ5CltemtI)t for William Thaw, who tins
Dill, UUiqUUOUS M IUV vnny
itrorg as two men, fleet as a frightened
buck.
Ollphant' teng lias.
The Army won In the best game the
service elevens have played In this city
because young Ollphant managed In the
first minute of play to capture that
taprlne, hollow horned ruminant pop
ularly known aB the Navy's goat. As
the whistle shrilled at 2:1D P. M. snd
50,000 persons. Including what seemed to
be (but of course could -not have been)
tJ.OOO of the prettiest girls In the known
world, heard the thud of the kicked ball
snd followed Its spiralling flight towsrd
the Army goal, young Ollphant set hlm
ef back of the chalk mark at the
Army's 10 yard line.
The hill, spinning and twisting, ninea
MJIy by the tricky airs, sailed long
and high and then plumped squarely
Into Ollpliant's waiting arm's. He
hiisged it lovingly for the flash of a
s-cond, glanced at the onrushlng middies
n rooliy as Gulliver might have re
tarded a surge of Lilliputians, and then
tucklni the leather oval under his arm
jming Mr. Ollphant lit out for tho Navy
goal.
Beautiful Interference by his com
rades, particularly by Left Tackle Jones
nnd by McEwen, tho big centre, gave
lilm the Jump the first few seconds his
agile mind needed to plan a course
through the Navy throng and there
upon he gave one of the finest exhibi
tions of open field running seen In this
football season. Dodging, twisting,
s'.ralght-armlng,' never slackening pice,
lie sped down the deld spurning
Ihe chalkmarks with flying toes until,
brought to earth by a fortunate tackle,
he planted the ball on the Navj'a f. yard
line. A touchdown followed quickly.
It was a football episode that a Presi
dent should have seen, but for the first
time In jeartr there was no President on
hand to applaud valor .and skill while
ircervlng traditional neutrality. Mr)
Wilson was uff erlnsr - from a bad cold
snd his physician ruled against his com
ing to New York and risking exposure In
arctic breezes.
, t
-Navjr'a Hopes Hashed
Thanks to Ollphant. the hopes of the
Navy were trailed In ths dust In the
ry drat two minutes of play. They
had come on the field, these youngsters
from Annanolls. Infanta In football com
pared to the grldwlso veterans from
wM point, with rosy expectations.
smiling grimly at the predictions of sure
triumph for the Army.
They had signal practised with vim
u'd vigor and had squatted to the earth
with Iron lesolutlon when Referee Rill
l.anrrord tucctled the whistle that Lie
And then,- all
uptown, even In private apartments
where the owners were willing to rent a
room for a night or two.
Rut all this preparedness went for
naught In the great rush. Brooklyn,
which has several large hotels, could car
for one hundred, no more, for tho reason
that the normal business kept them full.
Many were told to try Newark and other
New Jersey cities, but with the warning
that their chances of finding accommoda.
tlons were poor.
It u-Ha nntpd that even th tlllril class
1 places. Raines law hotels, which In or
dinary times are shunned, were besieged
Mlneola In the last night with demands fur accommo
dations by out of town patrons.
i:t. Paso, Tcx Nov. 23, Pancho Villa
and his bandits were Instdt the city of
Chihuahua lighting desperately for pos
session of the city when the wire be
tween that point and El Paso failed at
10 o'clock this morning.
Official statements In Juarez were to
the efTcct. that he hail been beaten back
for the third successive day before tne
wire failed, but Gen. Oeorgo Bell, Jr.,
commanding the American border forces,
stated positively to-night that Villa was
Inside the city of Chihuahua and press
ing the Carranzlstas back Into their bar
racks and quarters for defence when the
wire was cut.
The fact the telegraph line la cut north
of Chihuahua city was considered sig
nificant by army officers, who are closely
watching developments In Mexico. This,
they say. Indicates Villa's force Is north
of the capital and far removed from the
artillery on Santa Rosa hill and other
eminences. The side having the grenteet
supply of ammunition will win. one offi
cer declared to-night.
An V.nrlr Admission.
Vlll.t returned to his third dally at
tack upon the State capital this morn
ing early, bringing up artillery as well
us cavalry anil Infantry. Early Car
ranza messages ndmltted that he suc
ceeded In penetrating the city, but
i claimed that he was driven out.
t It was learned to-day by Gen. Bell's
agents that reenforcements from Juarez
left lust night for Chihuahua. Indicating
In the opinion of the American omcers
Finery and toys valued at I20.IIU0 and , that lien. Trevlno was III dire need for
filling half of a moving van. were taken to men. ns he had sent t.00 of Ills men a
Police Headquarters last night following I week ago to Juarez to he p ile the
the nrrest of Miss Elizabeth Pcanlon. 13 I harder town against threatened bandit
vnr nM iirAttv. and urcordlnc to ue-, alulKB
lectives, tne most skuiui suuviuirr wn"
$20,000 LOOT FOUND
IN GIRL'S DWELLING
Detectives Truck and Arrest
Her for Shoplifting
Say She Confessed.
Salonica, i la London, Nov. 25. The
Greek provisional Government, composed
of followers of former Premier Venlzelos,
hae formally declared war on Germany
and Bulgaria.
Ten Ilntlrrlrs Drum mint.
Athens, via London, Nov. 23. The
first delivery of urms demanded of tho
Greek Government by Vlcc-Admlial du
Fournet, commander of the Entente
squadron, constats of ten batteries of
mountain guns. The demand declares
that failure to comply with It bifore I)c
cember 1 will result In iiu-asutrs being
talfcn by the Admiral.
Admiral Du Fournefs latest note fix
ing a brief period In which Greek arum
are ti be surrendered grcutly excited the
people of Athens. Tho Premier In
formally explained that tliu admiral, In
reply to the Government's iofu.al of his.
demand, brushed nsldo the ivasons for
this rerusal and simply set Iiercnibi-r 1
as tlic date for the surrender of tho ar
tillery required mid livcember 13 ns the
date for the surrender of rifles. The tone
of the note, wild the Premier, was not
courteous, but It did not admit of dis
cussion. According to the diplomatic repre
(.entatlves of the Ententf Powers the
time allowed would enable the Greek
Government to reflect with miituro de
liberation before making Its decision.
Admiral Du Fournct's note, these dip
lomats pay. reviews at length the argu
ments or the Greek Government Justify
i,r ihA nnvftinment. Ha
declared that the King's best efforts so
far had pioved fruitless with the army,
which Is determined not to surrender
their arms, despite tho wishes of King
Constaiillne.
Tho resignation or ths Cabinet Is con-
sldeicd Imminent. King Constantino
called Chrlstakls Zogr.ttihos. former For
eign Minister, to the palace this ufloi
noon.
Anxiety (Iter Outcome.
Sptcial VabU Pttpntcfi to Ths Sis from tkf
London Tints.
London, Nov. 23. A special despatch '
to the Tfi.ics fiom Athens says there Is"
anxiety over the outcomo of the demand
of the Entente Allies for the delivery of j
atms by the Greek Government. Theio,
Is a rumor that Creek officers have signed m
ROMANIA'S LAST
DEFENCE LINES
IN GRAVE PERIL
3rnckcnscn Is Between Bu
charest and Main Army
in Alt Valley.
FA LK EMI A YN'S MEN
SWEEP EASTWARD
Cross Strategic River, Turn
ing Position Held by .
Ferdinand's Troops.
Is a rumor that Creek officers have signed f m l.'I'rrriv 1 1"IT1"12
a declaration pledging themselves to op- J ' M J Itl. 1 W; All Jl 1 1.O
poso the delivery or tne urms, out diplo
matic circles are optimistic.
M. Venlzelos tias communicated to the
Timra correspondent the text of n dec
laration signed by Greek royalist of
ficers. They undertook not to recognize
their comrades who have Joined the na
tional movement, und pledged their woid
to punish them collectively. Thus, M.
Venlzelos said, thev prepared un abom
inable sltuutlon which would make Im-1
possible future cooperation between tne
officers of the two armies.
E FF EOT JUNCTION"
Forces in Dnbrudja Now in
Toucli Willi Invader
of Wallacbia.
.tltuntlini Called Grnrr.
A wireless despatch from Rome says
Athens teports the Greek Ministry, In
examining anew Into the Entente demand
for Greek arms nnd ammunition, lias ue
tins unrkc! In New York for ycirs. They
say she has confessed, adding that she
never sold or pawned any of the things
A train alo arrlxed last night in
Juarez from CJilhuuhun for ammunition,
Gen. Bell was Informed to-day. Whether
It secured the ammunition and departeu
''.:.''..".. ..a... .h. he did not learn,
d? , . The Information was that tho train
Comnlalnts have been coming In from I brought up two Carranza colonels, badly
nrMtTcaHv all the Urge s ores and wounded, and that they were removed to
h.r 21 and the descrlDUotis In each l,on- n i- tllee w" M t0 ,ne
cVed ' William Deevey. cX I hroth.r ef Gen. Trevlno. the Vhlhuahua
captain of the first branch, and two de-i annumiw
I'ruvtil lleBnn Week Ao.
It. M, Haau, proprietor or the Ht.
Regis, turned his private offices, which
tectlves, eth.tisnveil .Jnmes Dalton. got
their first trace, of the woman yester
day. Thoy followed her to n house In
Sixty-ninth street, near t'oliimbus live.
ordinarily occupy a ult, Into rooms for lmc,)le pul'1(.e withhold the exact mini
ber and when she emerged
package, arrested her.
with
been spending his time for the past mlc,ts, The McAlpin and ClnrlcHe be-
many mourns ciiasinir ucmian uirMnm
w,,n. iinin TtVii ThYw nnd Rev. ' X,m"f wh0 wrre K,,ow" ,0 w """" mi After some questioning, they say. she
Lr,a,"ff- '.'.'m': ;m,he "ablt of 00",l,l'! rucularly. Toward Urok. down nnd look U.m,. tu her two
ilUllin
the army
According to Carratitlslii advices the
repulse of Villa eatly to-dny was even
more decisive than that of yesterday
and Thursday, the bandits being driven
clear of the Mibutha afttr desperate ef
forts to penetrate to the heart of the city
and tul.e It by storm.
Opening of tli- llntlle.
The battle opened nt 4 ' clock tills
ing tnie rcruual to surrender nrm. re. .a.i.i n in.u ruti,. in ih.
fers ngaln to France's proposal to pay demand.
for the urms or replace -Jiem after the A despatch filed at Athens yesterday
war, de-lares that the Entente Powers f.-iys the military party has taken a de
do not muko the demand because they cld.-d attitude, and that even if King
are In need of armament but because i Coiistantlne orders the surrender of arms
thev fAl (lit. .1... .. ..h ...... i.. i.. I . . .. it. . ... t
... .v. .,u. ...ii muii'iimn in. iiii: iJcujutT will inn uue. Ill iliw um
Greece would be better employed in dc- of resistance It Is expected the Allies
fending .Macedonia, "for the liberty of will arrest the leaders of tho movement
which Hellenic blood has so often been ' and occupy the custom houses,
spilled," than stond In the arsenal. I "The situation Is very grae," the cor
An official clot-c to the King has as- respondent continues. "The only appai
sured the Associated Press tlt.it the sur- ent solution Is uti ultimatum by Greece
render of arms no longer depends cither I to Bulgaria."
NERATOFF IS NAMED
FOREIGN MINISTER
GERMAN WARSHIPS
RAID ENGLISH COAST
Takes Portfolio Held by For
mer Premier Stuvrmer,
Ulanied as Pacifist.
" .'."J""" . the eiul of the week they were turning ,o. ,uirinient. The i.h.re. the .l..i..-.
cump on nempsteau l lains. nwHJ. ryfn oM trWnSs iye!t in-nrr. was literally crammed morning, und Gen. Trevlno. after send-
,. . ., ,,,. ..-. inv ' At the Ulltmorc 1. too weie registered with goods. Expensive Ince waists, furs, lug a message telling nf tne resumption
new .i.tMio.frri. uiaa. f(Jr rooms or M,teH mij t,erc ere com- handbags, pocket Iwuks, suit cases. Km ' of the lighting, took the Held In peison.
'The Thaw brothers started up first. 1 paratlvcly few room occupied by a tdn- huts and. strangest uf nil. u number of Gen. Murguia's cavalry, which Is ad
winding higher and higher until they gle guest. At the Manhattan practically toy elephants nnd other il:i things were vanclng from the trinity of Santa
reached 3,000 feet, and then Reynolds, ' the snme conditions prevailed. The Bill- found. Rosalia In an effort to relieve Gen. Tie-
w ho Is also an officer In the First Hignal more was Navy headquarters, Just as. The Stuff was loaded into four trunks. vino, according to Gen. Gonzales. .om-
Corps. Joined them. Tnen they flew the Astor was Army headquarters. The two packing cases, a cedar chest, a half mandlng .tne i.arranz.i. garrison m
nd a dozen or mote ' Juarez, is procveuniK un- mum-i
Lonpon, Not. 23. The appnlnttiK nt ' Bin'. IN-, xl.t lmdon. Nov. 23. The
of M. Ncratoff, Assistant Russian Minis- fortified town of R.imsgttte, on the Ens
ter for Foreign Affairs, as Foreign Mln- Iit-h coast, wan bombarded by Gcrmnn
tster la reported by Router's Petrogr.id , nav.il vessels on Thursday nlglrt nrul
correspondent. M. Ncrntnff le'ilaces Ftldn morning. -.,iys nn official au
Rorls Slliermer. who lield the Foreign ! noimcement lesiud to-day. The German
portfolio ns well as the Premiership, j era ft mill; the only hostile vessel, a
succeeding M. SaznnofT when Hie latter I llrltlsh patrol elilfi, which wns em oun-
retired this summer from the direction i tered. the GermntiH returning safely to
of the empire's foreign policies.
The change In tho Russlnn
trnll. leaving the main column at the ship lias been receive.) here with the
. railroad.
A report was
straight for the north shore of Long Astnr reporte-J that 3,000 person were dozen big hat lioxes n
Island, they t-ald ; kept along the oil go t,n hot rl Inst lie' lit. some of them 1 stilt cases, then transported to lleadquar
of the Hound for a few miles and then Himolv to enjoy the great celebration ters in n moving van,
headed across to Connecticut. which was under way, otheru to remain i The young woman gave her name
Here tney turned east. Keeping along i for the night. Uecaue of rcwrvntlons and
the shore In order to be able to tell for rmy men tho Astor could take no i Sever
wnerc iney were, i oe sun winu neijivu on(, else. say
Ih.m nmt their sneeil wns rrreat. When n.... i.-..t.in. i ii. in..jA.i.nt
" - - ' - i lie t,tiiiiiii .ni. in . nnuci niii nnr - 4 " " - - ---- i,. il,, V
tney arrivea over .ew imvcn mey uli (0 tn) d00r.-. The Murray H I months ago and trial sue nas neen ' urn. im-i. iramni V. V . . i . i Viii , . .
irnnned rfnwn tn nlmut J1.000 feet and l J"" .J... '. .... ".. '....:. '. u..rvi,lu. or n ...rninn me. emieem. has nlanned to get hold of the Laguna . Hals. Hie Unity .Nnis s.i.vs :
- - ;iiio.luril HivuiiiiiivuiiHuiini uiiii mi . . ...w,.w.. . ---- . it , ..... '"r
then ronowen tne cruwas nourins out i.. .. i mimm Keanion is nonieii us nuviiht that 1 nisirici i-ouuii uiu nKaui ii in-
'rcmler-
tlielr base
The stHleimnt le-jarJIns the raid says:
"Porlionti of our naval force, on
, keenest Intel est as marking the culrnl- Thursday night and Friday mornltiK ml-
current In El Paso to- nation of n seilos of cents In Russia I vftmi d nealtiM the mouth of the Thames
ml s ild lier address was -tis West day that this cavalrv column had been I which have been almost entirely ob- and northern outlet of the Downs, win,
;eve,,.y-sec . , l s eel This. li e , ol U c ' dPlWn back by Villa Vavalry which hud soured by the rigid censorship The .,,, exception of an outpost vess.l. which
I! iietiVious ihe said that she been left to prevent reenforcements significance of these events, as deduced w.i, sunk by gunfire, no enemy forces
afne Xo New York fron, Boston light . reaching Gen. TlUno. -y students of Rmsl,,,, (. , !. -, were encounteied The for.l.led place of
,1 ' 141, 11 1 ' till' Tin in w. j ....-
Lonisin, Nov. ;.. The fato of Bel
glum nn( of Serbia stares Rumania In
tho face. Her armies in WallachU
."cent caught In n great Teuton trap.
Even If the armies escape the full of
Bucharest nnd the overrunning of tho
great oil nnd wheat regions by tho
Teutons Appears to ho Inevitable.
All hope that tho Russians and Ru
manians could make n great .stand be
hind the Rlvor Alt has been given up.
Von Falkenhayn has ffhia.shcil the Alt
lino nt one point, turned it nt another
and Von M:ackonscn bus taken It in the
rear. Smashing Rumanian resistance
with almost Incredible speed, tho Teu
ton commanders have placed tho de
fenders In dire peril.
Von Falkenliuyn's troops have crosed
the lower Alt und made progress near
I the middle Alt. This turns the left flank
' of the Rumanian line and puts pressure
' upon the centre. Other troops of Von
Falkenhnyn's army, attacking In the
foothills of the Transylvania Alps at the
! headwaters, of the Alt, have drheii the
Rumanians down the valley, captured
several towns, made S00 prisoners and
turned the light flunk of the Att line.
Iiivnilers Firmly OtnlilUlied,
German troops lire firmly established
nn the Rumanian bank of the Danube nt
points both In front and rear of the
mouth of tho Alt. Bucharest and 1'rttn
grad admit tills. The German olllclnl
statement to-night says these ttoops
"gained ground." The earlier Rumanian
statement said they had ben stopped,
but this was only after they had seized
the railheads tliey needed.
At four other points along the Panube
to the west of the mouth of the Alt Uni
tarian troops have seized Islands In the.
ilv.r to proteu tho Hanks of tho Invad
ing at my.
In the legion near Orsov.i and Tuniu
Seveiln, in extreme western Wallnchla.
, the Rumanian army that Inst Orsnvn is
scattered and apparently Is unable tn
-..II.. r ... (I... it... ..I..! .mil wimu..
HanK-gale was subjected to artillery lire, . e,j mountains then- troops are making
.-.i'iuhik ui inn jirilisn ueci was Vis-j a l-Hc lint, frl
Iter, ill Itcports Hamsun to lloni
hanlrtl nnd One liritish
Vessel Sunk.
I
rhe most Iniportnnt fact In the whole! hlc a,ul our fort-en therefore withdrew,
The Bulteclalr.
' ., , . .li ii 1 .lie ,i;i,.-viiii , ... k-ii,
They could distinguish this easily l,i ii.a,i..... ,..,. ,,nirn,. ... rr n
enougii wnen me, B. i -iHiin I.IKIU o. ,i. ino,t .mrt permanent guests, was
It was long before the huge stands bad ..,.,. .i,., ,h riemand for rnnin m,.l
begun to fill up. but enough persons hud )w n oyff t0 pr,Vilt0 I,0me. n list
arrived to gle the two aviators u f i.uvlim been nreiiared In ad.
ir.uslnr cheer. Thaw and Reynolds .... ... u..,. ....!
circled over the huge bowl half a dozen . ,',.,..,... ,0 Kam'e conditions nrc.
nt Seventv-seventh t-h . made fron i IS.sS to ".S0 a that his attack on Chihuahua city matter Is that the P,o-(!e, man ngl.alloii , ctu, nlrig safely to their home base."
e natronsar; foV Te fore "hccaZn'nt.d therefore did not ' Is for the purpose of getting control of which hs lately been Kolnic on Ii, Russia' Lov.v Nov. S5.-A raid by Mv Ger
1 the Mexican Central to bring out this ' bus now been finally enn-hed
man torpedo boat diwtio.xers on the l.ng-
frultless resisiaiice.
MlUluirotT'-i iliinee lliiltrd.
In the DobrudJ.t, wheii; n lone liu-
on
times or so and then dropped to earth
lit East Haven, landing without mishap
In a smooth field near the uowt wmcn
had been previously Inspected for them.
vailed.
"HELLO GIRLS" SAVE TOWN.
All Suffered From the Cold. stick l S Hehlionrds llnrliiK 1'lrr
The intense cold had penetrated to nnd ttninmun Aid.
their bones and they were stiff when .,., , v.... ..-..-Cnuiaire of
released rum thetr seal oinerwrse ,.e , -",,,, 'O1)erators. Miss Ethel
were n goo., c "u.',...,.. unimwnant bM HPser and Miss Violet Hhultz, In, The breaklnc of a
1?-..' hi. hroner'a trKl? thronrt - ""'kln to their switchboards and call- under the strain :
, was his brother s ,t") h.l heJn i Ing aid from Jollet, four mile away. Is thuslasm among the
Ut'lSTIIU Ul'UII IICl lllt ll.'' It'l t II MIKi
I ...... ...... . snilll. Mill Klllllllir Ml-I1I1I1I lti- nun injL,t ,l I nnit .1.. t, IM.IIMITMI nuwir-r. nun i"sti iii.-.il.i,
I 'Thank 1,0,1 11 1. mer: sne ,s de- '!'", , ... , . ., , ' .... ,. rro.,Wr.'wl,UI, snys. 1 , . ' V, "m-h "', " ,, .' ""1 Murkensen'H troops Have Mi e.l the
dream. n .ids Is' U I Z I Ju. w w thotu muchVoubW If he V-, ' """"" , ' unuounced In ,, ,,,; MMM, neul 7. 1 ' "L ,""
go away a. "l 1 "turn my life right." I tures Chihuahua, and that he enn then ' due jo criticism on two grounds--t st. .,. .. T,. ra1 u..(s lwlWe ar,ouUtlK ' I; 1 '.'
Two sto r ,go wurehouso reni ns, one prevent the Carranzlstas from shipping the It-nigan Izatlon of ' ol ; to the t,..e,ml. which hays tho Mx Ger- J , " J,n n ' e "
fm, liillailolphla and one from Mlnne- out the U-iguna crop before Ills effort 1 supply i second, the n leged alter pt to Ilun ,ut,oyers par tlclp.nlng In it ! ! '.r, 1 ,' rv, r ere an s. "
..polls, lead detective lo believe she ! to retake Torreon and Its rich tieasure. ' promote ' .11 Zln lofl'v h'iv steamed w:,y i,ckly nfier tiring ' Vhe "ituS
n ay l ave shfppe.1 goods. The cotton crop In the Laguna district the latter clt Ills,,, we c.v n n dy s. ,,,, j ,, M ,,,,.., , he si , at o , n l o A t 1 5 W .0 .
. 1j?u:jz e,r,,beft,,,,d
SEAT BREAKS AT GAME ; 3 HURT. j.,T prices would bring Villa .money M,-n.ha.he Puma r,,,, r ,hc army are ,;-, ,,, , S.l.rdn.Tn" "t
enough, It Is understood, tn put nini and ''"'') ..i..i... . . - ...sX iiermai, . estrnyeis during the1 the All Its loss would be 11 blow almost
fade., i:.l.n..-.m r..e of Aecl- bis army thoroughly on their feet again. J'X, iil.lf Thursday ,.l,nUll,,S!l,;l,,1n Importam-e to the Jo'ls of l'"...!
irr r a'q uru7 "avrnwc
The bteakltig of a seat which cracked r
f too vigorous en- . ....
cadcls ut the Polo '' mrcclion on iiia.iuaew
the air. iney sou, mo inp k.Ti.v.., m naved this town from Grounds vesterdav resulted in the In.
iirtiiairtt vtn viiaina iroui b nun 1 - - ... - -
niiinui. ikvi-j""" t v -
developed nnd they hsd always had a
clear conception of where they were dur-
Ing the Journey. b .
During Hie progress or the game the
Thaws -went up In the airplane again
and swooped over the Held several times
to the delight of the crowd. They had
with them a camera which Lieut. Will
iam Thaw had used In makln pictures
of Oerman trenches; with .this they
snapped frem their machine several pic
tures of the. ame. ,
The second flight lasted a,half, hour,
and while they were Ub they divided the
attention of the spectators at the game
with the football players.
The only difficulty 4ht had presented
Itself, they said, was during the flight
across Long Island Hound, when they
nut of Klaht of land for several
miles. The Sound Is twenty miles wide
where they crossed It. but they had
....,. and kent going north, so It
.-. not long before the Connecticut
chore came Into sight.
can the ennlesl At 19,6.
.Q . ii, i,M .man, thU ttMtiremuS ,
I., ung Ollphant with his old trlokx to TTVTItG COST IilTS A
punnure their dream of u drubbing to1
landlubbers, i
After that furious, heaillorg, irresli
ilble .lush for eighty-three yards through
'he whole Navy team, Mr. Ollphant sue-
ceded In giving the Navy a bad case of
filinltts which, ever since the days of
liiaucer, has meant nervous trembling.
Frinilits and Ollphantltls possessed
them for the negt half hour of, plsy.
Everything they did Jn the first half was
roiig Their flngers were all thumbs
ami they suddenly acquired two left feet.
Easy punts were fumbled and lost by
hands that clutched too hastily. For
ward passes jlirint awry. Their rplendld
line developed fissures through which
Ollphant and Vldal and Place, the Army
baeUs. sputted like rushing water. Their
us u backs stumbled nnd hesitated and
were tackled In their tracks.
P wasn't a pretty spectacle at this
'age been use one saw that the Navy
I ! knew better football than they were
plnj Inn ! saw that they ioul.1 do better
.f they could shake off tho imrvoua slut
er'ng that Ollpliant's first sudden, tre
mendous lunge down Meld hid given
them : w that they wera miserably con-
destruction by flrn to-day.
The flames destroyed the plant of the
Northern Illinois Cereul Company, one
hundred feet from the telephone office.
Tbe loss Is estimated at (200,000.
PRE8rt)ENT'S xJOLD BETTER.
I Jury of three jiersons.
The cadets in section
rttllinnlinn to Avoid Artillery.
It was manifest that the ilejsile" f ie.l ..bout twelve rounds and quick
Ibe last ten days were of n most .iltli'.il Ml,,0l, lf , mK 0m, (,,0,1,, f,
"n j nature, the Oaity Chrunlrlr continues, ,Mttrv .t,llt n.jurliitc any of the crew
of ii ten,-
Hie main facts revealed were mat ine nl( n.. ,iu,K,1K )i(,r umiPr worIiH.
I ,e a n the Government. Willi , lie e- v.. vl.nli f..n ,.,.,. i,.r ....
JfMii:z Mexico. Nov. 23. Villa's .,inll nf ar Minister liiouvallerf. re- '..,., nr i,...,. ...!.. ' 1
iK.rury Held stand st the north end of f"'ces have cut the telegraph wire be- (we , ,eet tlie Duina; that legal .rR, inhabitants of Peal, on the coast
the grounds began singing and awaylng tween I hlhuahua city and Sauz, the first prosecution was proposed against Prof. f Kent, southeast of London, says n
from side tn side,. Huddenly the seat nii. '' "R . Mllukoff, tne loriuer inein. e. l eniriu .News despatclt, were nroused at
gave way and ten wero tnrotvn to the fine ...i...... ...i- ..on rngrcss,ve rune, iw riwu. nn.... miningm i nurs.ray ny trie sound of fir-
ground, i nelieve., ny varranza omciais nerc to-
tlr .Inhns nf Harlem Hnstiltii, .-n, night.
A .. TTT . . . ' ailed and treated Cadet Harry C. Reports of refugees to the telegraph
Mr. Wilson C ompelled to llrmaln In i narnea of Clkbihoma for bruises, Cadet operator at Sam. relayed to Gen. Fran
House All liar. Fermai, C. Mnrford nf Tennessee for a I elsoo Gonzales at military headquarters
T i in. a aniiie nini 1'in.ri.i t Ki.in ii here, convinced the civil and military of-
Wasiiinoton, Nov. 23, President . ,.ri,0. nf 3411 vt Kihtv.iyih . llcers that Oen. Trevlno. Csrransa corn-
Only by n rapid retreat on tho wholn
IH, mile line of the Alt rut, the litis,
shins and Rumanlal,.-, escape, it is be
lleied, Thts retreat would be aided by
the eight rHers that Intervene between
the Alt nnd Bucharest, flowing fiom 11m
mountains southwnid to tho 1 .i mi)..-.
Teuton Junction llfTeeteil.
It Is now evident that what bus been
feared has occurred, the lrtu.tl Joining
Uilsou. who was kept from Httendlng 1 .,., .i,,..,.- tu r....H
VL'(.AT.rN"V'.,,!?0tl,l.L 'IT 'before the game was ended.
VJ I II J . Wl I.III.....VU IIIUU"lfl
throughout the day. although his rondl
tlou was descrlhed as Improving. He
planned to take nn automobile ride tills
afternoon, but decided It wns too cold, r
His only caller was V. P. U. Harding,
governor of the Federnl Reserve Board,
who congratulated him on his reelection.
ceaMttaesI tM Tmk.Wi;.
Mandwlehra tio to 111 t ent la S)a-
nrrmr Coori lloose l.aiieh Hoant.
court attendants, reporters
end frequenters of the Supreme Court
Houso generally turned away from the
lurid, counter on the second floor yeeter
day morning with a .suspicious Jnolsture
about the eyes after reading this new
!"' . . ....... ', . .t
Owing to uie man in u p v. .uwi,
prices of nil sandwiches will be 10
'vrln who had beer, accustomed to
enatch 0 bite at the counter between
rases or In forblddln weather rathered
In knots to nota innignaiiou uirtuin., .
was observed that while tho pie portions
not Increasing In price, they were
shrinking In size. Heretofore each pie
was dissected Into six segments, but of
late the manager of the counter has
found n wuy to discover an additional
segment In each pie.
WHKKK TO f.O Tlllf WINTKB.
WrlW HOIJTIHCHN BAri.WAy. JJ4 fifth
Ayi. NewiVirk. fer b;oll(t trit litfsr.e.
DRIED CODFISH SINKS A SHI?.
ftwrtia When ' Wet an Open
J V -t
Xfhooner's Senma, ft Kared.
Galveston. Tex,, jov. 25 A. cargo, it
dried codfish thnt swelled when the
scboonnr Ponhook shipped water openeJ
the schooner's seams and sank It, accord
ing to tho crew of the Norwegian
steamship Kronstad, which arrived her
to-day.
The Kronstad, two days out fron, the
Azores, elghted the Ponhook In a sink
ing condition and rescued, her crew on
the night uf October 30 In a heavy sea.
The I'onluanK was en route from st,
tiMAtlbN ON kElD.
I . . I
The Wrltrr ! Ilrt-nrrrlna; at Joans
Hopkins Hospital.
llALTlllon,:. Md.. Nov 2t. John Held,
the writer, is nt the Johns tlopklns
Hospital recovering from an operntlon
terfonned. four days ago. Dr. Hale,
tlitgaltendliiir physician, said this eve
ning there was no doubt of Mr. neld's
1 ultimate recovciy.
One..t Mr. Items Kidneys had become
Infected while he was abroad and It was
necessary to remove the organ. Mrs.
Reld remained with Her husband until
mander, still held the city to-night, at
the close of the three, days lee by
I Villa. The telegraph line lias been silent
I ilnee liefore noon. Communication with
Chihuahua clly was interrupted soon
1 after Gen. Trevlno sent a personal mes-
sazc to Mrs. Ttevlno assuring her of bis
sn fety,
It Is believed bj carranza military
tllcers that Villa has moved around to
the north and northeast of tho city, nnd
Is attacking from that side In the hope
of avoiding the curtain of II 1 e which
the Carranza artillery has been pouring
Into the ranks et the bandits.
Amcr loans familiar with the topog
raphy of Chihuahua city say Villa will
be able to make his way Into the city
proper from the north without encoun
tering artillery the. This part of the
u-na nermltted to report . ,11.11 In,, .it sen l-rnuwls ...MM. 11... .1 !..
nt r.. . ,i.. I . . . . .. . . . .if v.. timl.'A,iei.'M nr. tiv to It... I I..I.
unprecedented eniiiiisianii tiiir..-.. . wniei ironi suw iiasnes irnm guns in n , ,", '., ., . ... .. . .. ..
sneeches In the Duma, at u later date, of noniieasteily direction, but the wn,. rmlj.i. in tin; south with Unit of Win
raiKeniiayil in ine lionn, ... eeej. nil. I
nledred themselves to finht the war to a miles away. The In
finish and that the Russian Govern- thn despatch mills, continued for twenty
ment Itself Inter Issued a communica-. minutes, when the Hiy duikcned again
tlon denouncing In the strongest terms nnd the people returned lo their beds,
"rsanred rumors" regarding alleged ne-
,,. nn.on ..H .......,.
looming of the guiut ' squeeze the Russians und Rumanians
gotlallons for a separate peace. j
MILUKOFF sflRS DUMA, i
N. Y. BATTERIES RATED LOW.
May Be Prosecntrd for Reference
to Sasonoff's Itetlreinent. t
ii.-iiiiv. ti- wireless. Nov, 25. Pes
II lu Ileal Mnte Field OraniiUnllon
Is 'liilrteenlli on 1. 1st,
Wasiiinuti'N. Nov 25, tilllcl.il rat
ings of Held artillery organizations nf
tlie National Guard announced by the
out of Wallnchla. This was believed to
be Von lllndenburg's gient plan, but
It was hoped that It had been thwarlrd
when Von M.ickeiisen was prevented
from crossing tho Danube lit iViria
voda, Tlie points where his troops liatti
crossed the liver are some 150 miles
southwest of Ceritavods, German troops
are on Rumanian soil, nnd firmly estab
lished ut thn Rumanian towns of Xim
ultzea nnd lsbicz, hcioss the rlier fiom
tho Bulgarian towns nr tiistovu and Sa.it
division of thn War I (spurt- ovlt. At SCImnltzea they urn slxly-thn
""".' .' ? O ...... .... . ,t ,, in. I '" ,,.'
..otit.i.s .nt... mill, imiuiiii i ...... . . linn.
Russian Government Is preparing to , lneiit to-day place New York batteries i miles, nt Islacz, eighty miles southwest
bring proceedings against Prof, I aul .N ,.iiiparatlvely low In the list of eighty of Bucharest, At .ImrilUea they bavn
Mllukofr. leader of the Constitutional n,(, ,.,,, inspected, seized n railhead.
Democrats, for bis speech nt tlie opening .rlP ,iK.t ranking New York bat- Zlmnltzea Is east of the mouth of the
. . .. .. ... 1 f... ..... .
,,. e'onuM lo was en ,. " clly Is said to be less Mrongly fortified
she tturned to New York. Mr. Reld
lias been in inn hospital since Novem
ber 12.
Wilson .'oailngr Here .Next Week,
Wasiiinoton. Nov. 25. President Wit.
Johns for Gibraltar. Capt. Doyle and , on has decided to go to New York next
the seven men of the Ponhook were
landed at Puntn Del Gradn, Azores.
Mm. BelseeVBln Still la Danger.
Los ANdKi.ua, Nov. 5. Another effort
in hnnrovo t.v blood transfusion the eon.
dltlon of Mis. Inez Mllholland Bolsse-!
wiln of New York resulted In no. chunge
during thn night, according to physicians
to-day. Mrs. Bolssevaln has been III
with nntemla several weeks.
Saturday and take part In exercises In
cldent to Inaugurating the Illumination
ot tlie Statue of liberty. He does not
Plan to matte a speech.
IIAVANA-TAHA-KIX1BIDA REMITI
Tin all-stetl yismlnge, lilt. A, M is mln
utes qulckait to Tinips. only two night out
ajjavansT ard Air line, list Bway.
Tileidnn tn llae California llonie.
SARATfSJA, Cal., Nov. 25.---William O.
McAdmi, Secretary of tho Treasury, an-
' Hi in the south, east and west,
Before the telegraph line was cut
, brief reports of the third day's battle
received by the military here told of
! the preliminary skirmishing Just before
'dawn, which. developed Into a genet I
attack at 4 :30 o'clock. The battle opened
with the rifle flashes of the inert In the
first lino trenches. The machine guns,
mounted on elevations protecting the
Din In roads to thn city, took up the re
fruln soon after duybreak and the heavy
nrtlllery on Hanla Rosa hill added Its
rumbllhgs to the 'din nt sunrise. The
assault liecame general at 7 o'clock, with
the hkndlts attacking from all sides. A
nounced to-day that he would huv or repulse of Ilia was reported soon after
build a home In California. Ile Is visit- clink. This was tne last direct word
ing nt the home of Senator James D.
Phetan here.
imuuvun hotels) and coif mnu
uivjsnBi aa. wniAirMst.iiii-r
M.
fasr.
of the battle before the wire was cut,
IXOUinA-CllBA.ATI.ANTA . W.
VIA HEABOABO AIB 1,1 NK BV.
nlrui Ibru Mrvlcn. Quick aeliduUti.R.nrfe
tMMkltu. latormatlea ku4au. lilt IT war.
of the Duma. In which be loucjied upon ll.,.. H itteiy A, First New York, , Alt, nnd thus In the rear of the main
.l.lli.nte nolnts In Aslg'iO-Rllslllll nill- . .. i ...i , Mtanils t h i leenlh .11. 111.. IU. Hot
tlons and particularly upon tlie. retire-, 1(,ry Krs, N,.w YrU lK ht0Cllln.
merit of M, Sazpnoff as Vorelgn Minister, I lul,pry ,;. yUm sew York, is scv
n,.,.nn,lni; tn cart er reports, w.isi. ,,.., , m,,, v....- v,.-i, ....
iv... vii. . - 1.1 1 , . in. ii.ii. ....... .... .. ui 1. uiKniiiii..
strongly criticised by the British Ambus- u,l!t ialU Htlu u,cr. The MgwsX New
sailor as an net of perfidy toward the
Entente Allies.
Prof, Mllukoff, according to the Stock
t.i... V.ri.m. rend from tho tribune of
the Duma an article, from the Berlin
f.oVnmiitcfyrT coiiiuining me iuitjohib
version of the Sszonoff affair and de
elated that 11 great msjotity of thelitis.
shin people shaied the views of the Am
bassador H T. Wuroun-Seret, Vice-President ot
the' Bums, who was In Hut chair when
Prof. Mllukoff spoke. Is reported to nine
tendered his resignation for falling to
prevrnt the Incident, and exrused him
self by saying that he did not speak Ger
man and therefore failed to understand
tlie bearing of the article read by Prof,
Mllukoff.
Athmla New Orleans Memphis Texas,
HUIITIIKHN RAILWAY quickest and b..t.
I Dully trslns from Nw Yorh. Dining and
leaping car atrvke. New Yerk OSIct, lit
Stub Ave; MV.. .
York battel y Is outpointed
Massachusetts batteries,
by four
R. I. GUNNERS ARE FIRST.
Rumanian urmy, Islaez Is Just wct of
the mouth of tin. Alt. I'lidoubtedly
crossings will be made at other places
also.
Check Only Tenipnrnrj.
Though the Rumanian islntcmcnt tn.
day said that tho Teuloiis had Peru
stopped "north," thai is, ufli r they had
pushed lieyonu inesn iwo places, mere 11
natter A Wins KHIeleni y Test I little doubt hiio that the chock Ih only
llnaancliusells Ihitlit Seennil. . ,f Ti'iesn' 'ilghtlllngllUo stiok.s of thn
Wasiiinoton, Nov, 25, Results nf ef- Teuton commanders seen, coinpl.lely tn
tlclency examinations nf the Held anil- hn confused those in chare, of tho
lery of tho National Guard were made Rumanian defenie. Gen, Bertheuit, tin
public to-day ut tlie War Depiiitiiient. . Flench strategist; Gen, Bl.ilyMV nnd
llatterv A. Rhode Island. Is irlvei. tlr.t Gen. Snkhatoff. tho RllHAhlU com .i.iiiiler.
pl.tin; Batteiy A. Massachusettx, second! nnd Gen. Averescii, who Is consul, id lo
First Battery. Utah, third; Batteries c be Rumania's best urmy lead.'., haio
and 1), Massachusetts, fourth and fifth bc,n completely niiimancciiv e. by
places. I F.illvenhayn nnd Miickenseii,
The German conimandera were bandl.
AtflV'hTA AIKEN ANHEVII.I.E.
"Auguats HfiarUI''
Via POUTREIIN RAILWAY. Ixav New
York, dttly, lltl p. m. Dlntnc and slaeplng
car service. N. Y. Office, lt Klfla Ait.
Ay, v ,
capped also by thn nutur.' of Urn
country through which they had u
fight. Von FHlkenhayn especially fared
great obstacle In the Transylvania All
aa set form in tne (ouowinv urucr
i
i
