The Alliance
He
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
rald
3,000 Copies
16 Pages
Two Sections
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE, BOX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBRASKA, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1916
NUMBER 23
BRAKEMAN MEETS
INSTANT DEATH
W. IT. Cates Falls Under Wheels of
Local Freight In the. Tarda
at Ravenna
CHANGES EFFECTIVE JUNE 4
ON GUERNSEY-ALLIANCE LINE
Company Announces Raise In Pay
for All Shop Hands Other In
terestlng Railroad News
F. H. Cates, a brakeman on this
lvtslon working out of Ravenna,
was Instantly killed at 6 o'clock last
lght when he fell under the wheels
f the local freight east bound as it
was entering the yards at Ravenna.
As to Just how the accident happened
bo one knows. Nobody saw the ac
cident and the first known of It was
when the remains were found a few
minutes later, the head outside the
rails and the body between the rails.
There Is a down-hill grade where the
tracks enter the yards and It Is sup
posed that he was at the head of the
train setting the brakes when he
fell. Whether the sudden stopping
Of the train was the cause or that he
merely lost his hold or became over
balanced will never be known.
Cates was transferred to this divis
ion from the Omaha division on Ap
ril 8. His borne ia at Wymore.
Where the remains were taken today.
Be has an uncle In the dispatcher's
Office at Lincoln.
J. M. Mewhirter was conductor,
and C. O. Hageman engineer of the
train on which the accident occurred
New Schedule, Guernsey Line
Two new fully equipped trains be
tween Casper and Alliance will be
yat on by the Burlington June 4. The
present Guernsey line trains will be
discontinued and "Bridgeport to
Morrill and return" train will be put
Thla change "win afford people of
Casper and Tlclnlty service to Omaha
it less Mna. Ahg affrr ded. nnjmir-otn
r road.
. The trains will be known as 31
Md 32.
No. 31 will eave Alliance at 1 p.
m. conectlng with No. 43 from the
east and will arrive at Casner at 9 : 50
p. m.
No. 32 will leave Casper at 2:65
p. m. arriving at Alliance at 11:50
p. m. connecting with No. 42 east
bound.
The time of No. 303 will be chang
ed from 1 o'clock to 1:40 but will
make up the time arriving at Denver
n the present schedule.
The Brldgeport-Morrlll train will
leave Bridgeport at 9:45 a. m. on ar
Mval of train from Denver and will
peach Morrill at 11:35. Will leave
Morrill at 12:10 and reach Bridge
port connecting with No. 303 south
bound.
A new train will be put on the Hot
prlnps line leaving Hot Springs at
ATTEMPT TO EVADE HOT
SPRINGS OFFICIAL FUTILE
Arthur Shane, Ixcal Barber, Charged
with Embezzlement at Hot
Springs, So. Dakota
Although a desperate attempt was
made by Arthur Shane ,a local bar
ber, to evade the officers from Hot
Springs and the South Dakota law,
the attempt was futile and after a
trial Tuesday at Hay Springs he was
turned over to Sheriff Clark and tak
en to Hot Springs to answer to the
charge of embezzlement.
Bert Metcalf, a Hot Springs bar
ber, by whom Shane was formerly
employed, accuses Shane with the
theft of a sum of money, about $50,
from the cash register, and last Fri
day Sheriff Clark came down from
Hot Springs prepared with requisi
tion papers secured from Governor
Morehead to take Shane back to Hot
Springs for trial. Shane asked time
to consult an attorney and went to
seo Joe Westover. When the. offic
ers learned that an attempt was go
ing to be made to evade the trip to
Hot Springs through a writ of habeas
corpus they refused to wait for the
proceeding, and Sheriff Cox. Sheriff
Clark and Shane In H. J. Ellis' car,
left immediately Mr. Cox expecting
to turn the prisoner over to Sheriff
Clark on reaching the county line.
Endeavoring to do the best he
could for his client, Westover secur
ed the papers necessary to stop the
party and getting a machine started
after them. He beat them Into Chad
ron and was waiting there when they
arrived and as a result Shane was
taken to Hay Springs, the county
seat, where a hearing was given
Tuesday. The effort was in vain,
however, for Shane was turned over
to the Fall River county officials to
be taken to Hot Springs to answer
to the charges preferred against him.
Look Here, Boys and Girls!
A grand prize at the end of each week for the boys
and girls who kill most dandelions
to Detroit.
Ed Shields, who with several oth
eUf.om Alliance ajendd t": K-C
state convention at Fremont the first
of the week returned home yester
day. The rest of the party went on
to Omaha.
Jerry Madden, chief clerk In Train
Master D. J. Nelson's office, was re
cently transferred to Chicago for
some special work, and P .1. Beach
has been taking his place here. Vern
Andress has been filling Beach'
place as clerk In Chief Dispatcher A.
V. Gavin's office. The change when
made was only temporary but It will
probably be made permanent
H. L. Ormsby, ticket agent, leaves
today to take Mrs. Ormsby to a hos
pltal at Rochester, N. Y. Cochran
extra agent, has come from Lakeside
to relieve Mr. Ormnby.
W. A. Hack, agent at Marsland
who has been away on a vacation
has sent In his resignation to take ef
fret Immediately.
c Hoae. brakeman. and Mrs
1:45 to connect with No. 43 and re- j HoaR Mi Wednesday for an extend
.-n tn Tint Snrlnrs at 6:05 tne
aame evening. This will prove a
great advantage to people of Alli
ance who go to Hot Springs, many of
whom go there each season for their
summer recreation and outing.
Horn Pay for Shop Hands
Announcement was made the first
f the week by the C. B. & Q. Rail
road Company of a raise in pay for
all shop hand? on the system of from
ne to two cents per hous. The
raise dates back to May 1. Machin
ists nnd machinist helpers get an In
crease of two centa. Hostlers, wip
ers nd ordinary laborers get a raise
f oue cent. Other clnsnlnoatlons
get :i raise of onn and on-ha1f tents
ed trin throuyb the eust. They will
visit at Niagara Falls. Washington
New York. Philadelphia and other
cities.
Norman M. Corkle, clerk in the
general superintendent's office, has
hin ntr several davs this week on
account of sickness.
Train Master D. J. Nelson will
leave the latter part of this week on
a business trip to Chicago,
F. A. Hively, chief clerk in the
general superintendent's office, went
to Lincoln Tuesday where he will re
main several days on company bus!
ness.
II. E. Wolff, a-jent at Sweetwater
will lay off tomorrow and will be In
I Alliance Sunday to attend a special
meeting of the Knlshts of Columbus
A train of forty cars of cattle pass
.l through Alliance Wednesday
RAILROAD NOTES
J .ck Tynan, who had planned i
to with the Alliance delegation to
the state convention of the Knights Twenty car8 Were shipped from
f Columbus at Fremont the first of 'paBO to Merrlman. The rest were
El
the week was detained by business
at the last minute and was unable to
male the trip.
Jake Stark, for several years chief
clerk at the round house, has been
promoted to a similar but better pos
it l-vi at McCook. Ho loaded his
hocaehold goods yesterday and with
his family left for McCook this morn
ing. General Superintendent E. E.
Young left Tuay night on a busi
ness trip to Oman.
C. A. Sprague. operator at Edge
mo:it. formerly of Alliance, was
transferred this week to Sheridan as
extra dispatcher.
PhillD S. Marvin, who had been
visiting here with his brother, Dis
patcher II. E. Marvin, for the past
tnree weexa. returned Tuesday night
ALLIANCE GETS NEXT
K. OF C. CONVENTION
Walter Hucchsensteln Re-elected
State Warden at Meeting at
Fremeut First of Week
The Alliance Herald has realized for some time that although this
little city Is one of the prettiest In the state, It la pestered, like all other
towns, with numberless dandelions which spoil the pretty yards all over
town.
Now In order to beautify Alliance and make It the city beautiful, The
Herald Is going to give every boy and girl in town, not over sixteen years
of ace. an oDoortunitr to win a prize by killing dandelions. The plan is
explained below. In order to make a success of It, we must have the co
operation of every boy and girl under sixteen years of age and also of the
property owners who realize that the dandelions are spoiling their yards. A
number of Alliance progressive merchants have already signified their will
ingness by donating prizes for each week of the contest. If you boys and
girls will get busy right away you eah have a chance to win one of the val
uable prizes and you will all get in ion the big ice cream supper. But in-
order to be eligible to a prize, you i must observe carefully the following
ulea:
RULES OF THE CONTEST
Each boy and girl desiring to enter the contest must come to The Herald
office and leave bis or her name so that we will know who are after
the prizes.
The contest opens Saturday morning, May 13. The first week closes
at 6 o'clock Friday evening, May 19. Each contest lasts one week
and the contests will close when the dandelions are gone.
Boys and girls over sixteen years of age are not allowed to take part in
the contests.
Dandelions will be Judged by weight. Dirt, sticks, stones or otlif ? rub
bish will not count and the dandelions must be free from these
things. f
6. When you leave your name at The Herald office, you will be given a
list of the places on which you are to kill the dandelions. In turn
ing in the dandelions you must tell us where you picked them. We
do not want you to pick dandelions on yards where the people do
not want the boys and girls to go and who are not sensible enough
to realize that the dandelions are pests and should be killed. .
6. You can Join the contest at any time and for any week. But you
should get in early while the dandelions are plentiful.
Dandelions must be brought to The Herald office in sacks, where they
will be weighed by the judge. In order to be counted for the first
week they must be at the office not later than 6 o'clock Friday even
ing, May 19.
8. The chief judge of the contest will be A. J. Macy of the Alliance post
office. He may appoint other judges to help If he needs them.
9. The girl bringing in the most dandelions for the first week will be
awarded a nice pair of school shoes by the George A. Mollrlng store.
The boy bringing in the most will be given a fine pocket knife by the
Rhein-Rousey Hardware Company.
10. New prizes win be given eacn wee by Alliance merchants as long as
the contest lasts, so that if you don't win out the first week you may
the next, or the next.
11. At the close of the contests every boy and girl who takes part and who
makes an effort to win a prize, no matter If they are successful In
getting a prise or not, will take part In a big ice cream supper, to be
given to them by The Herald. x
Now, boys and girls, jset busy'' Get your sacks and be ready to start
out next Saturday morning. ComrwTh Herald office Friday evening or
Saturday morning, give us your .name, and we will give you a Hat of the
places to worn.
. TO THE OWNERS OF PROPERTY IN ALLIANCE:
If you are Interested In ridding your lawns and property of the dande
lion pest The Herald invites you to give us your co-operation during the
above contests. The boys and girls will be required to be careful to not in
jure lawns or property in getting the dandelions. If you want your lawns
rid of the net we Invite you to phone The Herald office, 340, at once, giving
us the address of the prirv
THE ALLIANCE HERALD
Phone 840
And again the Alliance Commer
cial Club haa scored and thla time
under temporary secretaryship of J.
W. Guthrie, who with five other
members of the local K. C. lodge left
Sunday for Fremont to attend the
siaie convention wnicn was in ses
sion there Monday and Tuesday.
A flood of telegrams waa sent In
during the day from Alliance bust-
CITY PAYS BONDS
SAVING INTEREST
Five Thousand Dollars Worth of
Light Bonds Due July 1 Paid off
from Funds Now on Hand
RESULTS IN SAVING OF
INTEREST TO TAXPAYERS
Water Mains to Re Eitended Four
Blocks North on Missouri Ave.
Indicates Growth of City
As a matter of economy and In or
der to save Interest, the city council
ness and professional men Tuesday, voted Tuesday night to pay off at
and when the question of the convenience $5,000 worth of city light bonda
Hon city for next year came to a vote which will become due on July 1.
Alliance waa an easy winner over With nearly $13,000 In the light de-
Lincoln and Kearney. The vote was partment fund It waa deemed good
Alliance 41, Lincoln 80, and Hear- business to pay off the bonds before
ney 11. they became due and save the Inter-
All the officers with the exception "t. Councllmen Davidson, Welch,
of James Lanlgan, of Greeley, who Davis, Snyder, Helpbrlnger, were
moved from the state, were re-elect- present. Councilman Moore waa un-
ed unanimously at the Tuesday af- able to be present on account of the
ternoon session. serious illness of a child, and Coun-
The officers are: state chaplain, cllmen Was and Kibble were out of
Rev. L, A. Dumphey, Sutton; state the city. This prevented securing
deputy, Geo. F. Corcoran, York; quorum for the transaction of such
state secretary, Frank M. Colfer. Mc- business as passing ordinances, etc..
Cook; state treasurer, Patrick J. O'- and sevcra .Important matters, In-
Donnell, O'Neill; state warden, Wal- eluding the consideration of the
ter Buechsensteln, Alliance. milk and curbing ordinances, were
In the party of delegates from Al- deferred until the adjourned meet-
llance were J. W. Guthrie, Jack Ty
nan, T. J. O'Keefe, Walter Buech
sensteln, Ed Shields and Peter Becker.
Delegates from the twenty-eight
councils In the state, In addition to
lng to be held Monday, May 15.
The new furniture has all been In
stalled In the council chamber with
the exception of the chairs, which
have been shipped. The new cham
ber now haa a metropolitan appear-
vlsltora, brought the total number In ance. The meeting waa attended by
attendance at the convention to over a large number of citizens.
The application of John Bayer for
a license to conduct a pool hall for
the year 1916 waa granted. A tem
porary license had been granted him
at the last meeting. The appllca-t
tlon of Wayne Zedlker for a plumb
ing license waa also granted. '
The reports of the city depart-
SPECIALS at Mollrlng'a. Read the ment8( gUen eiewhere in The Her-
100. Services were held In the af
ternoon at St. Patrick's Catholic
church, where the Right Rev. John
Tlhen, bishop of Lincoln, presided.
The convention waa brought to a
close in the evening with a banquet
and social dance.
ad on page four of thla section and
call at The a tore,
SMITH VERSUS DAVIS
FIVE ALLIANCE PEOPLE INJURED
IN AUTO ACCIDENT WEDNESDAY
Heavy Automobile, Driven by Alliance Banker, Skids and Crashes
into Large Tree Near Chadron at 9 O'clock Wednesday
Morning, Injuring All Occupants
from Denver .seventeen of them bill
ed to Bingham and the balance scat
tered
The Burlington railroad company
will establish a station at Hoffland In
the near future. This place lies be
tween Blrdsell and Antioch and Blnce
the Potash Products Company com
menced operations there it has been
a flag stop for No. 43 and No. 4 4.
The establishment of a station mears
that au a sent will be placed there.
A "soldier special," of thirteen
care, seven sleepers and six freight
cars, bearing cavalry bound for the
Mexican border, left Spokane, Wash.,
Wednesday night They are routed
through Alliance and Denver.
Fifteen cars of cattle, billed from
Denver to Bingham, will pass
through Alliance thla evening.
Five Alliance people were Injured,
one of them seriously, when a heavy
Imperial automobile, belonging to F.
E. Holsten and driven by F. W. Har
ris of Alliance, skidded and crashed
into a large tree three miles south of
Chadron at 9 o'clock Wednesday
morning.., throwing out all of the
occupant.
In the party were the Alliance bus
iness man and wife Mr. and Mrs. F.
E. Holsten, the Alliance banker F.
W. Harris, who waa driving, Mra.
Wm. Carson Shaw, wife of Dean
Shaw of St. Matthews Episcopal
church ,and Mrs. H. E. Gantz, wife of
the Alliance attorney.
The party left early Wednesday
morning to attend the Episcopal con
vocation at Chadron. Mr. Harris
was driving the car, which is a heavy
one. At the north edge of Pine
Rldse. three miles out of Chadron.
while the car was going at a fair
speed, it crossed a small bridge and
struck a depression which had beeu
concealed by the bridge and which
Mr. Harris failed to see in time to
atop the car. The road grade was
soft and not wide. Aa the car skid-
for over an hour following the acci
dent. Her left arm waa badly in
jured and may be broken. Her left
eye waa completely closed and the
left side of her head badly bruised.
She waa taken to the doctor's office
In Alliance Immediately after her ar
rival this noon and an X-ray exam
ination made of the arm to ascertain
the exact nature of her Injuries.
Mr. Holsten was thrown through
the glass windshield. Hla face was
badly cut by the glass. He was
bruised about the body.
Mr. Harris Buffered a sprained
wrist. He and Mr. Holsten did not
return with the ladles this noon but
stayed at Chadron while the car was
being repaired and will endeavor to
drive it back this afternoon.
Mra .Shaw waa thrown over the
fence but luckily escaped with only
body hruippH. Mrs. Gants suffered a
- severely bruised and sprained left
limb. The ladles were taken to doc
tors' offices and then to their homes
, Imme 'lately on the arrival thla noon
i on 44
i The acellent happened near a
farm house to which one of the party
aid, were received with much favor
able cnniot by tnin'ouncllmen and
rofyor. The report of the light de
partment showed $12,718.85 on
hand. $5,000 of this was used to pay
off the light bonds.
Bids for the extension of the city
sewer on Laramie and Cheyenne ave
nues, between tenth and eleventh
streets, district' number thirty-four,
were received. J. R. Seaton offered
to do the work for 52 cents per foot.
and W. D. Zediker offered to do It
for 83 cents per foot. On account of
the fact that a survey had not been
made, all bids were rejected and new
bids will he received on May 20.
The mayor announced that on ac
count of the Inrge amount of busi
ness to be handled by the city dads
there would be special meetings thla
month on the 16th. 16th. 20th and
22nl.
H'i wi" rrelvel for a new city
sprinkler, as the old one seems to
0. . I it p'-r-tUve to spend a large
part of Its time in the repair shop.
C. A. Newberry of Alliance offered to
furnish a 600-gallon sprinkler for
$400 f. o. b. Alliance and add an oil
spreading attachment for $8 5 addi
tional. The Denver branch of an
eastern firm offered to furnish a 600-
gallon sprinkler for $275 f. o. b. fac
tory at Oregon ,111., and a 750 Ballon
Mrs. Josephine Lockwood dies sprinkler for IZ88 r. o. n. taciory.
Tuesday at their home In Bridgeport Their price on a 7.ro-gallon ou
following a Berious illness covering a spreader, eqelpped to spread water
period of seven months. Death was also, waa $571 f. o. b. factory. It
hastened by several strokes of par- was estimated that th freight on the
alysls sustained. The remains were I sprinklers weald be about 156. The
Two First-Clans Boxers Will Meet in
the Ring In Alliance on Next
Thiirftday Night.
Tommy Smith of Alliance will
meet Art Davis on Thursday evening,
May 18th, In a fifteen-round boxlne
match at the Phelan Opera bouse In
Alliance. The preliminaries v. Ill be
good and a large crowd Is expected
for the match, which will undoubted'
ly be the most interesting ever staged
In western Nebraska.
Smith has won every match staged
here. Davis held Jack Johnson for
six rounds In Omaha. Doth are goo.'
men.
Bargains at Mollrlng's
furntuhlnrs, Khoes, etc.
goods at low prices.
in ladle?'
OuaU.y
DEATH OF MAS.L03KVO0D
Funeral Services to Be Held at the
Christian Science Church Tills
Afternoon.
ded slightly It gave way. The car immediately went and telephoned for
ran headon directly into a large tree' a doctor to Chadron. The party was
at the roadside, striking the tree j taken on Into Chadron after Mrs.
with full force and turning half over.! Holsten had recovered consciousness
blnE held on Its aide by a wire ' and the inluHs of the parties had
fence, over which the party were been dressed by the doctor.
thrown. l The party consider themselves ex-
The car waa badly damaged, the.tremely lucky In that nono were in
humper being bent nearly double, a ; jured more seriously. The car was
fender being crushed, the front axle ' prevented from overturning directly
badly bent, the carburetor torn loose I on them by the wire fence, over
and other damage done. ! which they were thrown. The ladies
Mra. Holsten waa thrown clear ov- w undoubtedly be confined to their
er the fence and struck the ground homes for some time while recover
on her head. She was unconscious . tng from the effects of the accident
brought to Alliance today and the
funeral services will be conducted at
o'clock thla afternoon by Mrs.
Edith Zediker at the Christian Sci
ence church .
Mrs. Lockwood waa 59 years of
matter was referred to the purchas
ing committee for a report on May
15.
A petition for the extension of city
water malna on Missouri avenue as
far north aa seventh street, signed
- . . I . TTAttt Van HfV
age. She was Dorn at uicnmona.ioy bioan, cawa, nnuns,
ia c ,,nnA in mmiin with n land Ttenswold. who apieea to la He
A 11 14 , V. CB UUilcu . .una. .mbv -. . '
F. Lockwood In 1873. who with one water, waa received ana oraerea
on. Guv .and one dauKhter. Frances, granted. Bids will be advertised for
survive. One child died in Infancy, the construction of the same.
The family came to Alliance sev
enteen years ago from hpio i ity
and lived here until last Decei.her
when they moved to Bridgeport and
onenKcd in bunsiness. Ouite a num
ber of friends came up from BridKe-
port today to attend the funeral.
SAVE MONEY by buying your dry
goods and ladles furnishings at Moll
ring's. Read the ad on page four of
this paper.
The Herald wishes to call the at
tention of Its advertisers to the fact
that we have been adding new sub
scribers to our list at the rate of five
to twelve each day for the past two
weeks.
Cyrus Lalng'a water meter at the
Silver Grill "went wrong" during the
lt quarter and ran his bill up to
$54.10. Inasmuch as his duis tor
the last year only averaged $7.50
per quarter and the excess was clear
ly due to a defect at the meter, a de
duction of the difference. $46.60.
was ordered granted.
The milk ordinance was discussed,
but will not be acted upon until the
15th.
Steve Jackson, official dog catcher,
was present and in hla usual laugha
ble manner requested that the dog
tags tor tbla year be hurried up and
that he also be furnished with a new
(Coatlaaed on page 8)
