'v'"'?"*"?* '? ' ??rrv*"' jr ? awy *? v,?jvr??; ^"7"" .?"vtvtv"
?y 'Vi'^T ''" ^ ?''S ^ ": '? " ' ' 7 ''rt V" T"**
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pictures Daily
fJid|tttoni> STimes - ?) isp ate I)
The Famous Briggs j
See His Inimitable Cartoons on
The 'T.-D. Sporting Page
06th YEAR
volume; en
m'mimcil i:ti
RICHMOND,;VA., THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1916.? FOURTEEN PAGES.
))}?,7ll.Kn ? FAIR
PRTr.PT! TWO P.P.NTS
Conferees Discuss Sugges
tion, but Proposition Is
Not Formally Presented.
OBREGON IS EXPECTED TO
SUBMIT NEW PLAN LATER
Not Believed That Wilson Wi'll
Consent to Withdrawal of
American Forces.
HIS DECISION' IS rXniAXGKI)
* irtunllj* La?t Troops in United
States Being Mobilized for
Mexican Service.
W ASHINGTON*. May 10?Further fle
veJopmcnts In ti.o Mexican situation
?'ill awaited to-night the outcome of
'he El Paso conference between Gen
erals Scott and Funston and General
"hretron Officials of both the War and
s,f?te Departments appeared confident
?f at an agreement satisfactory to both
Y'*s w,,uld he negotiated, although
they h^itnterl lo |>r,.fJ|ct ho?. much
? '?n>o might be required.
Kllseo Ariedondo. Mexican nr.>bns-a
dor-deslgnate, called en Counselor folk
"l th" State Department late in fho
??ay. Noth he and Mr. Polk said the
'..?It was merely for a. minora 1 discus
sion of the situation.
.Secretary linker received a report
rrotn General Scott 011 the Ion* dlscus
6Ion with General Obregon last night.
staled that, while the Mexican War
Minister had talked over a suggestion
r c?-operatlve border patrol. the prop
osition was not formally presented as
a substitute for the protocol previously
worked out General Scott did not
.'ansmii details of the new discussion.
'??Jt Indicated that he expected General
"bregon to submit his new plan later.
'?llicials her* thought ?t unlikclv
? lesldent Wilson would accept any
at-recuent that looked to withdrawal
?' the American troops, even with
promises that a complete patrol of tho
Mexlerir side would be established by
the d?. l.trtn government. There wan
: othing to Indicate that the President
?vas lnciinc.fi io change his derision that
*irnetI Pershings forces will remain in
Mexico until the de facto government
I.hs demonstrated beyond question its
abilit;. to control the situation there.
< ot iim: of* oniti;?.i)v
? M /./.Live; TO OFFIf I \|,S
The course of <>ner:il Obregon ilt IS1
I'aso has been puzzling to administra
tlon officials. who believe that General
' ?ltiatiT.a has Ri-.en his assent to the
nureement as originally framed, ox-cm
in minor details. ju ?omo qunrlcre it
was thought the Mexican War Minister
might be seeking political benefit from
? }?*? tn olios he had iKioptcl.
'? is not believed hero that political
manipulation of this sort will be pro
longed to the Kijicc of causing a break
with ihe I'nlted states General Scott
lias give., ?o Intimation that he be
'!?\es an agreement could not be
reached, and Secretary Maker said the
delay was prribnbly .hie to the difficulty
of reviewing certain points to reach a
common ground on which the conferees
could agree.
Meanwhile, sonic . of ilie additional
troops ordered to u,,.. border yesterday
ere presumed to be en route to-iiluht
Mobilization of .he Arizona. New
Mexico and Texas National Guard was
proceeding under State authority until
ibA forces could be formally mustered
Into the Federal service.
Probably 8,000 additional regulars for
border work could bo drawn from the
? east Artilleries, should the need ar!?e
There were 13.000 men of the corns Vi
continental inited States at the time
..f the last official report. Secretary
Maker said late to-day he was ?ot Ht
, present considering sending more ar
tillerymen. and had not sought |n
formation as to how many more could
be sent.
Unofficial reports were received that
Mexicans along the entire border had
planned for to-day a concerted up
rising. From Mazatlan. on the west
.oast of Mexico, came word that the
consul there had been warned by
anonymous letters that the consulate
would be blown up. All Americans
were urged to leave Mexico within
iorty-eight hours. These reports in
creased over the situation among of
ficials to-day.
Unofficial estimates placed the num
ber of troops now on Mexican duty or
under mobilization at about 45,ot?o.
TIC.Y.tS NATIONAL GIJAHD
ON WAV TO SAN ANTONIO
ANTONIO, T1CX., May 10. Vir
tually the entire National Guard of
Texas is on Its way to this city to
night. where the militia will be mobil
ized and prepared for duty along the
border. The first of the troops will
arrive early to-morrow.
Kleven companies of Coast Artillery
also are expected to reach here within
the next forty-eight hours from Gulf
and Atlantic seaboard points. The first
of the Coast Artillery companies will
proceed Immediately to Boqulllas to
strcngthon the base at that place. As
signments for the companies were not
announced to-night.
< n A ST A HTIM.rcil V I,l0,\ VICS
FOR -MEXICAN I!Oilmen
BALTIMORE, May 10.?The One
Hundred and Third Coast Artillery left
Fort Howard this afternoon for tho
Mexican border. In obodionce to orders
from the War Doparttncnt received
earlier in the day. There were 112 |
men and officers In the command.
??? ? i
Bnron Wlmliornr Resigns,
LONDON, May I0.?The Marquis of
Crewe announced In tho House of Lords!
to-day that Raron Wimborne. Lord j
.Lieutenant of Ireland, had resigned.
| A plot 1> y tuuni; Soela I InIm nRnliiMt
thr life of the Snrdltib KIiik ut the
rwfnt lior*e nIioit huh foiled by the
mob 11 ir.n t lou of the entire detective
fitrci* niul tin? plnclni; of n rorilon of
dr tect I vc? In plalnolnthe* nround the
KlnR.
BSFEGON 31 ill MM
TO HEAR Fin MM
Conference Scheduled for Yesterday
Postponed When So Instruc.
tlons Come.
WITHDRAWAL QUESTION A S.VACJ
Scott and Kunston Unalterably Op
posed to Any Agreement Wliieli
Sets Date for American Forces
l.i'uvinn Mexico.
KI. PASO. TKX.. May 1". ? Negotia
tions over American troop dispositions
in Mexico niaiic no progress to-day.
' General Obregon waited Instructions
from General Carranza as to the course
he should pursue, and wh'-n no instruc
lions came a conference that, was
scheduled for this morning was post
pon ed
Falling In it'- efforts to have she
American troops withdraw, it was re
ported to-night that the Mexican rov
ernment may next try to have part of
! the American tronpn taken out at once,
leaving the remainder to eo-operate
; with the ';?> !*' ttovcrnnvnt troop?
in the pursuit of Villa.
The report, win h could not b? ron
| firmed, had it that the Mexicans be
lieve that th-- si2>- of Pershing's ariny
is out of all proportions to its mission?
'the extermination of a few hundred
bandits--and that a much smaller force
? would answer the purpose. A partial
j withdrawal, it i-- argued. would have a
:-on.i political influence in Mexico
If this plan was rejected, it was in
dicated to-r*aht. 11? e Mexicans were
' likely to decide that further attempts
! to alter the position of the United
.States are useless, and it was believed
they would then nciee to the proposals
'to the American government.
iii:i.n:\i:i? that mgv.tim;
Itl-I)A1 Wll.l, Hi: I.AST
j In authoritative quarters to-night
the beli-'f v\ a> ex that tii-:n"r
'row's tneetli::. would be the last of the
I conference's, anil that General Obregon
| would indorse t!'? tentative agree- ,
j rnent with pe Imps a few minor
| changes
Asked whether to-morrow's meeting
; would be final. General Obregon said:
'1 do not know. There might he other
i meet insrs."
! As the situation now stands. Major-j
j Generals Scott and Funston are un-j
! alterably opposed to any agreement|
I which sets a date for American with-]
drawal from Mexico, but are listening|
j to all proposals the Mexican Minister j
i of War might make while waiting for
i him tn realize that the intentions of,
| the American government in Mexico!
| are immovable.
| In the meantime. General Obregon's;
I proposal for a joint troop patrol of tliej
| border is not given serious considera
tion. The American conferees, it is!
[said. doubt if the tie t'acto government!
can muster sufficient forces to form a|
? patrol of the sort outlined and at thoj
same time carry on its campaign:
j against the Zapata and Villa forces,
l At yesterday's conference General!
I Scott requested General Obregon to putj
liti writing his view of the action that]
has been taken in the present dilemma, j
T,ast night until a very late hour the,
| Mexican conferee was In telegraphic!
! communication with the first chief.!
J This conversation started early this!
morning and continued through the;
day. It is believed that the result of:
ibis wire conversation will be, thoi
written proposals requested by Genernlj
Scott.
SITI ATION IS STIM,
HKGAiimcn AS SKHIOUS
While the situation is still regarded;
as serious here, it was pointed out that)
General Scott would hardly keep Gen
eral l-'unston away from his headquar
ters at Pan Antonio if tho situation im
peratively ^demanded military prepara
tions.
In the meantime, however, the Amer
ican military chiefs are understood to
have taken additional steps to guard
against eventualities. General Persh
ing is said to have received orders to
materially lessen hts line of communi
cation to draw in all scattered detach
ments.
It has been suggested In some quar
ters that tho delay in present negotia
tions Is not a had thing, since It will
permit completion of the new army
and militia movements before any
break, if one comoB.
MOTORING XOUT1I THIS SUMMER?
Drive your car to West Point and ahip via
VOKK H1VKR I,INK to lbiltlmore. Have a
delightful water trip, save time and uvold
tho rough rotttia. i'houu Mad. *73.
f'.-iftk,1* r . *--- i ^v. A.i M
Want Him Named, but Will
Yield if Republicans Nomi
nate Right Man.
PERKINS MAKES PEACE BID
Refers to "Inevitable Outcome of
Failure to Reach Common
Understanding."
?VKW YORK. May in._The Progres
sive party will not Insist upon tho
nomination or Theodore Roosevelt fop
j President of the United States, if the
Republicans will name a candidate at
j Chicago "who stands for progressive
principles, and is able to r?u jjj,.,,,
? through," according to a statement
",a ? h6rc to-i??Bht by George w.
i ernins, after a meeting of the ex
ecutive committee of the Progressive
| .National Committer
"Wo. of course, are for Colonel
Roosevelt." declared .Mr. Perkins, "and
shall suggest his name to tho Re
publicans. If they reply that they will
not agree on the Colonel, we shall ask
them to name th?-ir man. who ought
t-> ho as nearly unanimous rhoice
our man. Wo are willing to be rea
sonable for tho sake of harmony."
Mr. Perkins's statement suppiemcnt
H general statement issued hv the
?abpU"V? cornm,ttee- ,n which it was
If the Republican convention is re
? ponsi\e to the patriotic spirit that
brought rhe Republican party into
wearing anO made It dominant for half
a century, it will meet this crisis |n a
tp.rlt of broad patriotism that ri?e?
above partisanship. Should the Pffort
Mil t.,? responsibility for the insult
not rest on th? Progressive con
^ oi" Ion. but will rest 0n other shoul
ders than ours.
I-Oil I'KACI';, HIT NOT
l-'OH I'KAO: \t AW I'UICK
"At this turning point in world h!?
tory. wr will not sti.-k on details. We
V; KV partisanship and preju
dices. but we will n-ver surrender the
principles for which we stand and have
stood, and will f0M0w only a i,.ader
who we know stan.ls for them and Is
.1 '!'? to put them throuirh. We are
or pea.-, but not for peace at any
price.
It was said that the Republicans and
independent voters in general had re
sponded "understanding!}- to th- senti
ment* expressed" in the appeal made
J^t .nuar-v !?' Progressive Na
tion;.., Committee for Republicans and
r rosresslves to "pr-t together."
It was added, however, that "there
J* an element in the Republican partv
leadership which seems to be uivinir
'"ore. thought and attention to what I
that parry is against, and whom it is
against, than to what ti is for and
for whom it is for. Therefore, we.
again .-ail attention to our rhicac-o
statement as ,he inevitable outcome I
k.wh VC f? roarh a common under-:
statiding. '
I"-le?at*>. from every .Stato will at-!
?J-nd the Progressive National Convex
ton. which will be hold at Chicago
simultaneously with the Republican
! n entIon, it was announced. A num
ber of States- will send doubl- del^a
tlons, allowing- each delegate half a
>" e. an?i the total number will he
upward of 1.00* The program for
temporary organization of the conven
tion will announced next week.
foi.oxKi, iioosrt lii.r sits
HI-JAM Of.' TAHMi
After the. forenoon session of the
committee. George W. Perkins enter
tained the members at lunch. Colonel
Roosevelt was present, and sat at the
head of the table Others attending
were: Walt?r P. Rrown. of Ohio; li"^
tZ. I*,0? Sn,Itl'- ?f Connecticut; Mat
thew Hale, of Massachusetts- II p
uardner. of Maine; W. D. Lewis- of
l.robi Tan;au.?- P-Dod^. of Colorado;
I.j Ti ke3' of "llnois: TIenrv r. !
VorP wim<l ?^ar S,raus* of
ork. M illla.n Minn and R a. Van'
Ma ken burp, of Pennsylvania, and R j"|
Harris, of Illinois. ' "
HKCI.lXlvS TO MAKK
'OM.UIC.M OX RUMORS I
f .Special to The Times-Dlspatcl, I
> VST BR BAY, x. v.. May 10-0,1 his,'
nel" noo? Sa^am0rC HU1 to-n,Kht. Colo-I
nel Roosevelt declined to make any
oomment upon the various rumors
;l"ch were spread in New Vork to-dav|
In connection with the meeting of the
??????. <" ?H. I'rogr
ft can he repeated, however, that'
Lo one! Roosevelt has made no promise
and kI\ en no assurance of support to
any presidential candidate, and is preJ
was "'in T S1'ne framc of ni,nd ho !
was In when he made his Trlnldi.l
.statement and in the statemenT wh e
supplemented it. issued or, his return!
from the Chicago trip.
As to tho future, events must decide
and Colonel Roosevelt's own course of
action will be shaped by the attitude
ho assumed in the two statements re!
lined the /n lhT 8ta,cmen,s he out
ned the type of candidate on whom
the Republicans and Progressives will
> a ile to unite at Chicago. it can
>c said generally, however, that there
is nothing in Colonel Roosevelt's frame
who" "Jo "h,ch t" tho":
Who are earnestly battling for 1,1s
nomination by both conventions.
in addition to the members of the
Progressive executive committee whom'
io met to-day at dinner. Colonel!
Roosevelt saw Robert Racon. a Root I
supporter, whose second choice for the
presidency Is Roosevelt, and former'
Una r Mnr,?n N'orth Caro
sAN I- RANCISCO, May io wmt?
11. Crocker, San Francisco banker, was
named Republican national committee!
man from California to-day at ft n,eet
"K here of the executive committee of
the Republican state Central Commit
LAST CONCERT IS
GREATEST OF ALL
Martinelli, Braslau and Amato
Knthrall Capacity Crowd at
City Auditorium.
j
! ANNA case COULON'T appear
t
Wednesday Club Chorus Ren
( ders Original Composition by
, Conductor Henry W. Baker.
i
! The twenty-third festival of the
I Richmond Wednesday Club ended last
J night In a hlazn of glory. Pleasing
! and attractive as have been in many
| respects the other concerts it remained
j!?r the last to establish a standard of
j beauty and excellence which any or
ganization would find it diflicult to ex
!
j The absence of Miss Anna Case oc
casioned by a sudden and unexpected
illness, announced only yesterday
; morning. was at first a great disap
pointment, but her place was filled to
j the delight of the audience bv Signor
l Amato and Miss Braslau. and cvery
i body was happy, it is most interesting
I and pleasing to know that upon learn
ing of the illness of their fellow-artist,
j they volunteered to nil the vacant
< numbers as a compliment to the Wed
nesday Club and to the people of Ricli
, mond, jifiri that this trracious compll
l niont, was appreciated was evidenced
? by the rousing reception given to both.
; Ry raro good fortune Slgnor Amato.
; who sinics in Norfolk to-niRht, rc
j mained here rather than undergo a
! fatiguing trip to New York and back,
j and was thus able to relieve the dls
l appointment and chagrin of the board
j of governors when the tardy announce
ment was made of Miss Case's illness.
CLOSING I'KOIillAM IS
UKI,I,.M(;h PERFECT
? The program, changed as was neces
j sary, was well-nigh perfect. The
: opening orchestral number. Beetho
i\cns Lenore" Overture, was played
, with such dignity and appreciation of
| tl.o richness and beauty of the score
a-. ? Isarins criticism and gave unusual
; pleasure to the audicnce which picked
, *^e Auditorium #o the doors, ar j it.
.?-.is. so with everv orchestral number
' throughout the program. The niches,
lira had evidently settled down to
I earnest and conscientious work, and
responded perfectly to every move of
i the conductor's baton. Mr. Hagemnn
| is to be congratulated not only upon
j the accomplishment last night of t?<j
small orchestra under his direction,
but upon lus own skill and artistic
work tin oiitrhout the festival. At tiie
piano, his p.aylng of accompaniments
was a ievfjalion, and no one could
l -?ve Imth more gracious In rendering
this service to the singers than he was
Ue has ?I! encthened his hold upon \l e
T.t.'Iunond public, if that be possible
OHk;i\ai, composition*
liv W. HK\nV HAKKIt
The Thirteenth Psalm, for which tho
; music was composed by XV. Henry
Baker, director of ihe Wednesday Club
thorns, was a surprise to those of the
audience unfamiliar with Mr. Baker's
training and skill in the more serious
work of composition, and particularly
is he to be congratulated upon bin ex
cellent. arrangement for the orchestra.
The music was solemn in its appeal and
Joyous and triumphant in the final
chorus. The voices and orchestra
joined in making it a beautiful perform
ance of an excellent work.
At the conclusion of this most en
joyable number. .1. McCombie Murray,
a member of the chorus and the direc
tor of the choir at the. First Christian
Church, presented to Mr. Baker a hand
some watch, the elft of the chorus as
an evidence of their appreciation and
affection. It was a touching and un
usual scene.
Miss Sophie Braslau surprised even
her most ardent admirers by her
growth as a singer. She has Improved
j wonderfully since she was last In
i Richmond, and gives every indication
i of further achievement In her profes
sion. The quality of her voice la un
j usually sweet and rich, without the
| harshness so often heard In contralto
| voices, and yet she has a reserve power
j which makes her work most attrac
tive and effective. She has even
j grown in personal magnetism, which
is saving much. As an encore to her
i first number, she sang "Life and
j Death." by Coleridge Taylor, nnd. tak
ing the. place of Miss Case after the
| intermission, she sang three delight-!
j ful Russian songs, which she briefly
explained in a manner which added to
j their charm. As an encore, she sung,
to her own accompaniment the "flaba- I
nera" song, from "Carmen." For her i
last number she gave the Recitative!
and Aria by Oluck, from "Orfeo et
nuridice."
AMATO ItK.MHCR.H
PROLOG L'K TO IMKMACCI I
Amato sang the Prologue to Pag- ;
liacci in excellent form, and with a ?
quiet dignity which befits the tragic
plot about to be unfolded in the opera. '
?or an encore he sung "Tarantelle," I
>y Kosslnl. Though the audience were
probably not. aware at the time, of the !
gracious generosity of Miss Braslau
and Slgnor Amato, tl^ey could scarce- i
IJ have been more enthusiastic in their,:
reception of these two artist* if they
had known it, and had sought to give j
evidence of their appreciation.
R is hard to discriminate in so ex- !
eel lent a program given by such art
ists as made last night famous in the
iiistory of the Wednesday Club, but j
at least it may be said that .Martinolli
was received with thunderous applauso I
at every appearance, was recalled again j
and again, und the audience showed tho I
fullest appreciation and enjoyment of '
his wonderful voice nnd charming man
ner. There Is a sincerity and sim
plicity nbout his gorgeous singing
which adds to the pleasure of hearing
his great voice. Thoso who have never
heard him before can now realize the
fame which has come to him, and his
early attainment of his position In tho
front rank of operatic tenors.
MAIITIMHIiM IS TURKIC
TI.MISS KXCOHKI)
Ills numbers were well chosen and
magnificently sung. At the conclusion
;of 'ho aria from "L.a _Bohome," the
' (Continued on aocond"
IN VERDUN REGION
French Capture Portions of Ger
man Trench on Slopes of
Dead Man's Hill.
NO CHANGE ON OTHER FRONTS
Usual Bombardments and In
fantry Attacks in Austro
Italian Theater.
On th<? western front in France,
notably in the reelon of Verdun, which
for weeks has been the theater of the
moat sanguinary conflicts of the world
war, comparative calm prevails. The
French, however, have been able to
capture portions of a German trench on
the west slopes of l.e-Mort -Homme,
ami to i>tit. at naught a German attack
near hill 2R7; but In the wood of Mnl
ancourt. Le-Mort-Monime, had to ad
vance further fhe German line toward
Verdun.
Front noni> of the other fronts has
any indication com" of material change
in the positions of the belligerents.
Later reports show that the Russians
have been repulsed In an attack on I
the Germans south of Garbunovka,
sufferinp heavy casualties. <~>n the
Austro-Italian front, the usual bom
| bardments and isolated infantry at
i tacks are still in progress,
j Constantinople chronicles victories
for the Turks against the Russians In
j Northern Asia and northwest of Mush,
I and the defeat of the Russians, with
j heavy.Mosses, and the capture of some!
i prisoners near Mount Mathli.
J The recent attack by the Turkish !
! cruiser Rreslnu against Russian Black I
I Sea ports Is declared by Constant!-I
nople to have been made as a reprisal
apalnst the Russian fleet, which bom- j
hards open towns and villages on the I
Anatolian coast.
] A royal commission has been ap- j
j pointed to Investigate the Irish re- ;
| hellion, which now seemingly has been J
I entirely put down. Premier Asqulth
! has informed the House of Commons
ithat there seems to be no necessity |
i for further extreme measures against j
'the. rebels. Debate on the Irish ques-j
I Hon has been postponed in the House I
i of Commons until Thursday, pending'
' which time no further executions will.
! tak? plare. Baron Wimhorno. Lord j
I Lieutenant of Ireland, has resigned. !
ACTIVITY ON VRHUl'X
FltOMT HAS DKCHKASKD
| PARIS. May 10.?Activity on the
i Verdun front has decreased, according
? to a statement given out by the "War
I Office this afternoon. Artillery action
! west of the Meuse was less pronounced,
and east of the river was only inter
| mlttent.
An attack on French trenches he
| tween the Olse and the Alsne was re
pulsed.
The statement follows:
"Between the Oise and the Alsne, r
J ooup-de-maln upon one of our trenches j
! southeast of Moulaln-Sous-Toutvent
j was completely checked.
"In the Verdun region, the bombard
ment west of the Meuse noticeably
diminished Kast of the Meuse and in
the Woe vie region there was inter
mittent cannonading.
"Hand-grenade skirmishes were re
ported during the night In the woods :
of Avoonurt and in the region south of !
Fort Douauntoiil.
? In upper Alsace, ati enemy reconnoi- |
tering party, which attempted t.o seize1
one of our small posts near Hirzbach,
south of AItkirch, was repulsed with
losses."
GRHMA.NS SI Alt K FUnTHlOll
PIltM.IlKSS ON HILL 804
BERLIN'. May 10 (by wireless to Say
vllle).?The Germans have made fur
thelr progress on hill 804, on the Ver
dun front, and have driven back
French detnehments southeast of the
hill, the War Office statement of to
day says. The text of the official stato
? ment follows:
"fn the Argonne, the enemy, after >t
| mining operation, attempted to enter
i our lines, but was repulsed.
"Southwest of hill 304 advanced de
| taehments of the enemy were driven
' further back. One detachment was
? captured. The new German positions
I on hill 304 were extended.
"German airmen dropped numerous
? bombs on factories at Doinbasle (Ar
| gonne) and Kaon I/Etape (Vosges).
"Eastern front: A Russian attack
south of Garbunovka along a small
front was repulsed. The enemy suf
fered heavy losses.
"Balkan front: There has been no
especial event."
I
BRITISH IIIOSTHO YER IIADI.Y
DAMAtilH) IIV ARTILLERY FIRE j
REKIilN. May 10 (by wireless to Say- j
vlllc).?in an engagement off the Bel- '
gian coast on Monday between German I
and British torpedo craft, a British de- j
stroyer was badly damaged by artil
lery fire, according to official announce- i
ment by the German admiralty, under j
date of May 0.
"Two German torpedo-boats," says
the official statement, "while reeon
nolterlng on the morning of May .S. had
a brief engagement north of Ostend
with five British torpedo-boat de
stroyers. One destroyer was badly
damaged by artillery fire. The German
torpedo-boats returned to port un
damaged."
I'T.IIOST CONSIDERATION
FOIl lltUTI.Nlf PRISONERS !
LONDON, May 10.?According to a
dispatch from an "eyewitness" with the
British army In .Mesopotamia, Khalll
I'asha, the Turkish general to whom
Hie British forces under General
Townshend surrendered at Kut-el
Amara, showed the utmost considera
tion for his prisoners. Khalll Pasha
expressed admiration for the gallant
defense of the garrison, and showed
anxiety that they should be well fed.
He especially desired that every com
fort and consideration should be shown
{Continued ou Second I'akqJi
Successor to Birrell
! The lit. Hon. Ij?*%vIn Vernon llareourt,
It l<? reported on reliable autliorlty, han
I Iippii appointed Secretary for Ireland,
| KiivrrnlliiK AiikiinIIii Illrrell, lately re
j Hlgned. II r. llareourt married Mt.s*
i Marjr Ktliel llurnw. diiuifbter of tlie late
j Walter llurnN. of Xoit. York, unci n
I count ?? of J. I*. Gorgon, in INftP, nuit
: now imN four children.
MANIFESTO IS ISSUED
TO PEOPLE OF IRELAND
Irish Parliamentary Parly Calls
I'pon Them to Support Consti
tutional Movement.
ONLY WAY TO HKAMZE AIMS
In Spite of Bitter Provocations,
There Is No Hesitation in Cou
deinning Rising in Dnhlin as Dan
gerous ltlow to Ifopes of Natiou.
I.ON'DON'. May 10.?The Irish parlia
mentary party Pias issued a manifesto
to the people of Ireland, calling upon
them to support the constitutional
movement as (he only one by which
their aspirations for self-government
??an possibly bo realised.
"Another tragedy," says the mani
festo, "has been added to the lone
tale of .Irish tragedies. The capital
of Ireland has been (he scene of 11 mad
[and unsuccessful attempt at revolu
tion. Dlood has heen shed freely. It
is true that Ireland has been bitterly
provoked by the growth of a similar
revolutionary and illegal movement In
another part of Ireland, backed by an
army in revolt. It Is true that flm
grave responsibility for these events
In Dublin rests upon the leaders of
that movement. These things will
have to be discussed nt the proper
t ime.
"It is true that Ireland has been
| shocked and horrilled by a series of
military executions by the military
tribunals in Ouhliit. These things
| have been done In the face of incessant
[and vehement protests of the Irish
leaders, and these protests will ho
pressed continually and strongly until
the unchecked control of the military
authorities in Ireland is abolished. Hut
if is also true that, in spite of bitter
provocations, the people of Ireland
have had no hesitation in condemning
I t'he. rising in Dublin as a dangerous
[blow at the heart and hopes of Ire
land.
"On the morrow of this tragedy wo
feel called upon to make a solemn ap
peal to the people of Ireland to draw
the conclusions which these events
force upon them. We must leave no
1 misunderstanding in our minds a/? to
our convictions and our resolves.
Kit her Ireland is to be given over to
unsuccessful revolution and anarchy,
or the constitutional government is to
have the full support of the Irish peo
ple and go on until it has completed
its work."
IHI'OltT.tXT A N'NOl'.YOiMKN'TS
MAHK IV HOtrSK OK COMMON'S
I.O.VPON. May 10.?A number of Im
portant announcements were made in
the House of Commotio to-day. The
rtrst was the announcement of the
resignation of Baron Wltnbourne. First
Lord Lieutenant, which undoubtedly
has been in Premier Asqulth's hands
for some time, acceptance being delayed
until normal conditions are restored
in Ireland.
The second was the appointment of
a commission, headed by Lord Hard
mge. to investigate the causes of the
Irish outbreak. A third was the ad
mission by the government of the truth
of the report that R Sheohy SkefTing
ton, editor of the Irish Citizen, and
two other Journalists had been exe
cuted in the I'ortobello barracks in
Dublin without the knowledge of the
military authorities and before mar
tial law was actually in operation.
A tourth was the call for a special
session of the House of Commons to
discuss the executions in Ireland, and
finally the issue of an important mani
festo to the Irish people by John Red
mond strongly denouncing the rebil
lious movement and eloquently appeal
ing to Ireland to stand fast by consti
tutional means to secure self-govern
ment.
DISSATISFACTION" ICMMtKSSKI)
WITH A I) MIX I STflA TIO.V
LONDON, May 10.?In the House of
Lords to-day. Lord Loreburn intro
duced a resolution expressing dissatis
faction with the administration of Ire
land. He complained that the govern
ment had ample warnings of what was
likely to happen, and was surprised
by the rebellion. Hut it was not right,
he said, that one minister should he
nindu a scapegoat. Other ministers
should have known what was going
on. and they ought to have been as
frank as Augustine Pirrell, who re
signed after the rebellion had been
quelled, j
,s
PULL BLAME FOR
Submarine Commander Is
Punished and Adequate
Indemnity Promised.
VIOLATED ASSURANCES
GIVEN TO UNITED STATES
Contention Originally Set Up Ex
j ploded by Facts Furnished by
American Government.
NOTK COMES FROM GERARD
Indicated at State Department That
Case Will Ho Considered
Closed.
M'ASHI.VGTOX, May 10?fieritiany,
; in a note received to-day by cable from
Ambassador Gerard, at 15erlin. admits
that she torpedoed the channel steamer
Sussex in violation of assurance? given
; tho United States, expresses regret for
! the incident, states that the submarine
commander has ben "appropriately pun
ished" and declares her readiness tc
pay an adequate indemnity to Ameri
cans injured on the vessel.
Tt was indicated at the State Depart
' merit that the German statement that
! the German commander had been pun
? ished would be accepted anil the Sussex
case considered closed, except for
i arranging for tho payment of indemnl
| ties to the several citizens of the United
! States who were hurt. There probably
I will be no attempt to rregotlatA for
! these Indemnities or for final settlement
I of tho Lu^itania and other cases pend
i mgr. however, until sufllcient time has
I elapsed to indicate how the last Ameri
can note was received In Berlin and
whether the new submarine policy Is
being lived up to.
Olt Hi IN AI> CONTENTION
CANNOT HE MAINTAINED
I Results of an Investigation, based
I on facts supplied by the American rov
j eminent, the German communication
i says, has shown that tho contention
I originally set up that the explosion of
j the Sussex was to be traced to r cause
1 other than a German submarine attack
| cannot be. maintained. While assert
] ing that, the submarine commander
J thought be was dealing with an enemy
| warship. Foreign Minister Jngow ad
| mils that he formed his judgment too
| hurriedly, and. therefore, did not act
(fully in accordincc with the strict In
struction which called upon him to
i exercise particular care.
Officials of the State Department
j noted particularly the passage of the
| note, which said, "In view of these
j circumstances, tho German government
j frankly admits that the assurance
, given the American government, In
; accordance with which passenger ves
? sols were not to be attacked without
warnimr, has not been adhered to In
I the present case." This was regarded
j as indicating a purposo on Germany's
: part to decline to pay indemnities for
j Americans killed or Injured on ship.
; other than passenger liners prior to the
[ date of tho last note, in which the
j German government promised that
i freight as well as passenger vessels
would not be attacked without warning
or without provision for the safety fofi
the persons aboard. Any response to
the note received to-day probably wil|
make a distinct reservation of Amerle
can rights on this point.
NOTK mOM VOX ?IAf?OW
TRANSMITTED BT GERARD)
The text follows:
"Supplementing his note of the 4t?*
Instant, concerning the conduct of the|
Gorman submarine warfare, the under-4
signed has the honor to Inform His Exh
cellenc.v, the American ambassador, Mrj
James W. Gorard. that the further inn
vestigation made by tho German naval
authorities concerned, in regard to the
j French steamship Sussex, on the basis
! of the American material, has been
j concluded in tho meantime. In con
, formity with this investigation, the aa
| sumption expressed in the note of tho
j undersigned of the tenth ultimo, that
? the damage of tho Sussex was to be
j traced back to a cause other than the
| attack of a German submarine, can
i not be maintained.
"Such an assumption had to be ar
? rived at with certainty from the ma
teria) in the possession of the German
government, for itself, and without
? turther knowledge of the circumstances
i connected with tho torpedoing of the
1 Sussex, the more so as apart from tho
points enumerated in the note of tho
; tenth ultimo, the following facts had
; come to the attention of admiralty
j staff of the navy through reliable In
, formation. March 24, 1916, approxi
mately ai tho same ? time as the Sus
| sex, an auxiliary warship left the port
j of Folkstone with a large transport of
j British infantry on hoard; on the same
j day a transport steamer was tor*
j pedoed in the channel; a few minutes
j preceding the explosion on the Sussex.
she had passed through a mass of ship
, wreckage, which created the impres
; si on that a ship had sunk at that spot
shortly before. All these facts Justl
lied the conclusion that the only case
of torpedoing which could be consid
ered under the circumstances, had
struck the British ..ar vessel, whereas
tho Sussex had met with an accident
in some other way.
ADMITS SHIP TORPEDOED
IDENTICAL AVITH MT'SSEX
"However, on the basis of the
American material, the Gorman gov
ernment cannot withhold its conviction
that the ship torpedoed by the German
j submarine Is in fact identical with the
Sussex, for. in accordance with thin
material, tho place, the time and the
effect of tho explosion by which the
Sussex was damaged agree In the
essential dotalls with the statement* of '
the American ambassador, so that therq
can no longer bo any question oi th<
1 possibility oi two independent; opou&
?M
