Stm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers to-day and warmer; to-morrow,
fair and cooler.
Highest temperature yesterday, 6i ; lowest, 47.
Detailed weather, mall and marine, report on p.uc 15.
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 254.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1916. Copyright, M, by the Sun Printing and PubUtMng AttocMton.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
MOOSE MAY
TAKE HUGHES
WITH AN "IF"
Waul .luslieo lo Declare
IliiiM'lf for Progressive.
Principles.
COLON KI, OF nH'lJSK
IS Til K KM ST 0IIOICK
Loaders 3Ieet Here Willi
Their Chief and Discuss
Candidates.
WH'KKKSII.UI SAYS
IHHVI' I'lVYllT U'lV
lit MM t AAAUL Vt IA
..... i
HOOlll lo!' dell. OtMl IS .
Soeii. Thonjrh Siirner IN
pudiates the Letter.
Tie e icf development In the polltl
ttt !ti.lion yesterday w.ih the Indl
ntlo-i seen bv I'logiesxH,.,. th.it if .
"if Ib'puMii.ins refuse to nominate i
Oi. I.OMvell Ol l n:cagll hill III' lUIIIII-I
nite .lii'tlee llughi's the Progressives
.'Pt him- this, however, on con- I
n t ut Justice Hughes declare-
.-:f r f.nor of the prlueiples to
11
i if I 'V t'urd i.trty subscribes.
,.
0
T'- - rri .-rt ni o national executiv
(tnini't.e and of or leaders mot here
a ' l or'y-s.-cond Street lliiildlng
j, , .it .1 lu'icheon at which Col. Itoosc
t l was 1 'ip guest of honor.
licrc U' Wlckorshaiii during the
il.v announced his belief that Clihu
r!n could not be elected President and
trst h ad ilecided to joipport I Inches.
A lett r which appeared yesterday in
" .'tcnlii; J'o.f over the signature of
Jchn A. Stewart, chuirman of the
i.p.utie (ommittec of tho American
.-ui.pt wu constriiiil as .1 boom for
Lemiaid Wood for the Republican
"'e-ic!r!iti.i! notiiln.ttluii. When Mr.
arrWL asked at lnM oitiee. I
Li. iiiw.iv loneeriilng the letter he de.
. - . 1
.1 .1 knuwledge of It.
tv'iiv Sllibbs of KaiiSics declaieil
it tie delegates from that State to
(' i-.igo convention were for
: s to a man and would probably
-' tier votes! for him on the llrst
.ot.
IHTttirv tl'Tt 1 v
II 1 1 tt '
IS MOOSE INDICATION
Irmler lert With llunsei rlt nnd
IHv'Iiks Candidates.
I' ie llci ublieans refuse to nominate
Col. 1. i-im .it Chicago but do noml
Ju t,-,. Iluglios tho Progtesslvcs
a. Tt bun, piovlded the Justice, bo
' 1 I'r'KiesMvos reach tlie nomlnu
111 Mse in cieir convention, declares
.111-. f as holding principles to which German proposal, and the Susex incl
'.i' t .r.l 1 art subscribes dent Is clucd so far as it alTects the
Tie r.rego.ng could b set down as a ! dlplottmtlo relations between the two
.... .... . , , ' I Governments.
f.M.nt, jfpr a imctlng of the Progres- wh.,t form ,llt, ,,unishment of the sub
t r.a- ; ,i, cxecutUe committee and 1 marine coiiuuander has takm is not ills-
.fr I'.oiois in the porty-second Street ' closed In the German note. It was said
H.iiiJIhb j'Hcrd'iy and a .Manhattan I at the State Department that the United
"P" mi. neon at which Col. Hoosevelt . Statea will rely entirely on Germany's
M' a' 1 1,. lead of the table.
Kr "ii .1 -t.it.-.ii.'itt agreed iif.on by the
'Xe'Ul.Vi
foiiiiniiivo all mention of can-
ates w,is iiurtu.selv excluded. The
1 " if ' ,s largely n lepetltion or pai-.i- been n large Hritlsh transport with iu
1.1 e -,f the document wherein the j fantry aboard which left Folkestone up-
r gros e National Committee In Chi-! proximately at the same time as the
'Z an J iniiary 11 .list announced that , Sussex.
I'r it e.ive- were willing to Join Hut Germany, In view of the conclu-
' R an ill wins m declaring nn honor- , slve evidence submitted by the Culled
no;, .id -, With moie emphasis than 1 States, now admits that the Sussex must
"i 'He former occasion the scarcely 1 have been also attacked by mistake.
' led threat 11 reiterated that unless In this connection olliel.ils of the
llf' u )!'. ans imt forth a canillilnti! 1 State Department point out that thc sub
1 ".no-n tin. I'i oureiuh es mav cleave tn.irli... cnonnaniler's inaccurate sketch
t'ere I lie a third ticket and the his-
' "" (it 101" Will lu ,!i,,,ll .I...I
"p ,.!. for Tteace but m.r for .ie:ice
fc any price " s the climax of thu ultl-
:ntum dtnivereii yesterday
lens of Perkins.
, M e inportant than this statement
' f'.ctw r,- how the Progressives, have
ll'i. e, in their strategy hy 'the ,
ir.-c of politics were a few ie- 1
' . 1 1 1 ' rsn nr t
marl. r miii.il K.. 1 y Hnblnu
' a.rTmi ot the executive committee'
"" Mi. ommilteo had ended its con-
H w,.s nsked flrH If candl-
'in "-arl 1.1 en .liscn.se.1 in .be meciinc
1.1 ar.,,1. 1 n,f. imaheiin table
'Ye' ie Mid, "the lelatlve strength ' American Consul-Genernl Kklimer re
1 '.ino-is . ai.dldateM was disciis.s(,." ported further cases to-day of utt.i ks
Are
n iiien.ire.l to s.iy." he was
K'ri,
ti s'
tihai man the Progressives !
'.ppoit f Ihn lteiiuiillc.ins failed
1 'in ,ii
l- I.
Col Itoosevelf"
s 101,1, his head, saving. I alter uifl leceiui 01 ..e.,.,...., n
n carapMates. That woub ' "bandon Illegal tnelhods ,,t '' '"'"'
. . rttlei This htalcoient of venifaie. Twelve of the crew have been
,.s th. nrt oi Z "pn.J.i-wi.f.l. "ut one boat with fourteen per-
r I,
f 1.
I!, ll.
n in 1
'iiild sntipoit
moment be addril . ' The
as unanimously agreed 011
oid . '11 c fully woi-led rtate
,is been given nut, and It
' 'He committee his to say.
ii is one man I'll s,iy tills. :
pre
s u
'Icr
H 11
' ' ' 1 'lows Unit Col. Itoosevelt
' e " b..l e .if the Piogrcsslw.
Mi"1- 1 t ,1 choice Is not acieptab'o
ie P'. Oi arid III their I'll en?fi cnn.
v.niMjr
we say lo th. in :
U'1.11
lt,o.
,u """ as jour iirsi
,TmuT-rZ nnnn!nhVnt
if r,
n t ii
oriiud the Itenuhllcans
not accept him then tho
'V.iiitd be 11. a ...lultbiti in
Ks.iuU''
ii Tiu (m ws to name our second
I0"' "lii'i we had done that there
' ' igic. inent."
.11 uiesnvcs have never said
1 lub',, ins In tliU campaign:
I 1.' """vet liuht." All that Mr.
1. .1, "' "' nu .liinti.irj- 1 1
' We .re nil hopliiL' that Imlh par-
' Ml iierre i,,, s,nehn,y, atid it need
""iu. nl 011 'iOi I'opc.
BERLIN ADMITS U BOAT
TORPEDOED THE SUSSEX;
COMMANDER PUNISHED
Adequate Indemnity to Go to Americans Injured in Mis
hap, Says Note Submarine Mistook Steamer
for a Transport, Is German Contention.
WASHINGTON, May I0,-Tho German (lovci iinietit haa admitted In a
Mite lu the United States made public to-duy by Secretary Lancing that one
of her U boats, sunk the Channel steamer Sussex. She la ready to pay In
demnlly and has punished the commander of the submarine. The text of
the Hutu follow :
Ambassador Ocinrd to the Secre
buy of Stair, May 10. 191S.
Telegram.
AMKItlfAN Kmhassy. IIkhlin, May 8.
Following 1st translation of the text
of note Unin which my telegram No.
35 was In soil :
Supplementing hi note of the 4th
III"!., concerning the conduct of the
'Herman submarine warfare, the un-1
letHlRiieil has the honor to Inform his
l . I'i'l li'lii v lliii A ttmrii-fitt A mii.iKMiif liir.
Junes W. Gerard .tli.it the further In-'
i vcrtlgatlon made by the Herman naval
I authorities r.meerin.d 1. r.-L-ai d to the ,
Fnneli Htpnnml.lt. 4imox m. the UisU
' '. 1 steamship .Sussex, on the Uisis
or i ... American inatena!, una uren
; roneiiineu in the meantime.
111 conformlt u itli the result of this
investigation the nssumptlon expressed
in me noie oi me unueisigiieu oi mo
, l"th ult. that the damage of the Sim- ,
se w.if. io ihi trariM oacK to n eause thxlil n,,,roaPi,0j( ln i,cr mltrr appear
oilier than the attack of a Oerman j nm.e tl, description of the vepsel ns
submarines cannot be maintained. furnished by the submarine com-
Such an assumption hud to be nr- j m.,mi.r.
riven ai wjtn certainty from tne ma
il lial In the possession of the Herman
(iovcrninent. for Itself and without fu-
Utro knowledge of the circumstances
I coi.r.ected with the torpedoing of the
Sussex, the more so as apart from the
!,, ..onmmilnd In llu. mm. of ih
lOilt ult. the following facts bad eome
u' tl1" attontinn of AdmliMlty staff of
niivv through relluble Information: 1
' rllK "4 ii.oroxlmttely 'it the
','. ti,7. 'm'ti,.'. '4iiMev in -insill irv
s.itiii. time .ij the Mlhicx, .111 .iulll.ir
,w.sl,lp left the ,,o,l of bo.Kes.om. w .1.
a large transport of Hrltlsh Infantry
on board; on the same day 11 transport ;
steamer was torp.-doed In the Channel: I
a fPW minutes preceding the explosion
on the Siise she had passed through
a mass of ship wreckage, which cre
ated the inipn-sion that a ship had
sunk at that spot hliortly before.
leetdenf tn Sussex.
Ail these farts Justified the conclu
sion that the only case of torp. doing
which could be considered under the
clicliinHatiees had struck the Hritlsh
war ves.-cl. whereas the Sussex had
wl,h nn "(ei,l,,,lt """ 0ll"'r
way.
Mowcmt. 011 Ihc IkwU of the Amnr-
iCl,u material, the Clermnn C.overnment
t,n..l wltliln.l.t 11m ...ir,...t.. l.nt Ilia
cannot withhold Its conviction that the
ship torpedofil by the cVnnaii .sub
"'""''e Is In fact Identical with the Sus-
sev. for in accordance with this ma
ferial the place, the time and the of
ff r' of the explosion by which the Sus
sex was damaged agree In the essential
details with the statements of the Ger-
J man commander, sn that there ran no
longer be any question of the possl-
Jbillty of two Independent occurrences.
An additional reason Is constituted
by the fact that otllcers of the Amer
lean navy found fragments of nn ex
WILSON TO ACCEPT PROPOSAL
OFFERED IN GERMAN NOTE
The United States will nccept the
good faith In this matter.
The first news pertaining to thc alleged
tomedoinv of n transport Is contained In
the note and Indicates Hint It may have
of the Sussex which he drew at the
time of the explosion conclusively sliows
how ditllcult It Is for submarine com
manders to distinguish the type of ves-
sels they are attacking.
American Consul Krost at llantry re
Iiorted as follows to-day on the sinking
of the White Star stenmer Cymric,
loaded with munitions, from New ork
and bound for l.lveipool:
"No Americans on Cymric, l ive lives
lost. No warning by submarine,
Wuko
of torpedo seen nfter explosion. Cymric
unarmed. Weather rather rough. Crew
wf,ro 1,1 '"'n ,,,"",B J :? l", 3 M"
May i. former hour being time, of ex-
plosion, Oniric
sank 3 this A. M.
" "erman niuin... ui ..
,nen
liie British bark Galgalc was sunk
by a suumnuiie 011 .nay u. whom
sons 11 board hi.H not been beard from
"The Greek steamer Tuxlarhls was at
tack, d vvithuut warning by a submarine
on Mav 4 The ship was damuged by
shell III".
"Tho Noiweglan stenmer Mod was
sunk bv a German submarine 011 April
ili. The cicw was picked up by a Nor
1 wegl.ui steamer."
ll was Indicated at the Stale Depart
, incut to-day that the United Sli.te Gov.
I I.-... . ..I I. .... .uullll,ll 111
ernmelll iiiikio nsnni iv .ne. ...... ...
,, .,...,, Litl,i.i,.ne crmmill.io-
,.. ,,, n(,.v
w au 1. in. 1 -....... nM
-Iges bee boVdliu. Germany respon-
nl. llll.i . i.ic .,.iti.. .
BERLIN GETS REPLY.
Delivered (11 Forclmi Office hr .
Im.ai.il.ir liernril.
Iltril.ts. May 10. -The reply of the
I 'idled States to the German note was
dellveicd at the Korelgn Office this
afternoon by Ambassador Gerard.
iv nil .no i'.cc,i....oi u, ...
German American suomanne comro-
vers IS rcguiueu lirru urn ec.iiru, u..
plosive In the hold of the Sussex, which
are described by them upon firm
grounds ns parts of a Herman torpedo.
Finally the counter evidence which
was deduced In the note of the 10th,
ult. from the difference In appearance
in. ii. e:iri,.- ursii .lieu iiiu nuu-
mnrlno commander and Ihn onlv reiiro.
auction of Mtn Siiksox then available.
has proven to be untenable. Inasmuch
a(t m-cordlng to -a photograph of the
... .. . a. t
characteristic distinctions no longer
,.us.,l ;,t , ,.,.. nf , ..i.
;. o. V. ' o.. . . 1. ,
T . , , . lu:u'"' ul ,
my illv rjrnpilc enclosedln the noto
, mTrlviX nv mant ,, nI?0 ,hoVC(,
.., .vh, -,.,... n.,nnirv n t...
vc,xf. - r vessels on tho level with the
,K,rtholes O. V. S.. the reproduction of
xhv damaged Sussex shows a second
, aml a unform dark color and
(None of the ottlclals in Washington i
u-V.. , A" ',y. . . lnltm,s - I
Thonuhl If Wnrshln.
ln view of the general impression of
all Km facts at in ml ).n Crrm.n flov.
ern ie.lt
ernmelll conMilers It Heond doillt tn.it
",l """"""mrr 1,11 suomanne acieu
''' t'"' ll0"'1 lllle MU'1 ,lmt ,,r was fnc-i
warship. On tho other
, . ' ...,.., .,.
' - - ' . m ,0" j..ltor Mr. Moss u.quircl more in Uc j
' "' the elevated
l'"uie of the 1 Irctimstaiue.-.. 1 0 ( ta I alwut tile I. ttltit of tn Uevatul 1
'ffmnl hw Judgment ton hurrh-dly ln,thlid tracking work to the I. A. Gil-
fM.iipii.-innt ner eu.iraciei- 11110 11111 1101
therefore act fully in accordance with !
the strict Instruction w hlch called upon !
hi... to exeiclse particular care
..L" TV'T ''rl,1''.,?IICr":
v..iiii,iu omrrnmnii iiaiihiy aomiis
that the assiitance given to tho Amer-,
lenn I lnNnnii.nl It, ,.o..nr.1 r. ,.1.1,.
", '. '. '
w b, eh passenger vessels were not to be 1
attacked without warning has not been '
adhered to In the prr.sent case. As was
Intimated by the undersigned In tho
note of tho 4th Inst., the German Gov
ernment does not hesitate to draw
from thLs resultant consequences. It
therefore expresses to the American
Government Its sincere regret regard
ing the deplorable Incident and de
clares its readiness to pay an ndetjuato
Indemnity to the injured American citi
zens. It also disapproved of th con
duct of the commander, who has been
appropriately punished.
Impressing the hope that the Amer
ican Government will consider the caso
of the Sussex us settled by these state-
men (5. tho undersigned avniUs himself
of this occasion to renew tn the Am
bassador the assurance nf his highest
consideration. Vo.v .U'low.
Ukri.is', May 7 IPlfl,
negotiations so far as they concern the
past are virtually closed
Geriuiny holds that Its orders to sub
marlno commanders were Issued without
strings or conditions, and will take up
the latest note for further discussion.
I loth the .ofcnl -inirffrr and tho
el14110 mil Mittap regar( the note as
acceptable to Germany. The Zettunp
om Mlttag, commenting on the Ameri
can answer und. r thc caption "Wilson's
Klnal Word," says that the German
American crisis with Hit donger of a
mpturc Is now a thing of the past.
The y.citunu am Mltutg points to the
Sus'-ex case as nn ln.llc.nl.,.. il....
many Is irepared to act uprhrhtlv nn.i '
assume the consequences whenever It Is
wrong.
"We gave notice In our nnswei," It
continues, "that we desired to remain
calm and that even n the midst of the
present caustic bitterness the voice of
leason should lie jiermltted to be heard,
America has acknowledged that in to
day's note, if it transmutes this nc
knowiedgemcnt into action there will be
no longer a German-American Issue."
Tim public already Is aware of tho
contents of the note from a Renter text
published In the press this morning. At
the same time Germany's admission of
blame In the Sussex case was mado
known through the press.
The tone of the nolo Is deeply re
sented In many quarters, hut will he lg
noreil. The tono Is regarded ns being
unnecessarily and deliberately sharp nnd
brusque tn a point almost of being of
fenslvc to the sense of pride of a na
tion. II Is declaied that the tono manifested
In President Wilson's last two notes Is
not such ns Is generally used by 0110
great nation to another, and that It han
confirmed In the minds of the German
people that President Wilson nnd Sec
retary Lansing aru hopelessly unjust and
onesided In Ihelr standpoint of the Euro
pean war: Intensely prejudiced nnd an
tagonistic to Germany, nnd that the
German people ran expect neither Justice
nor fair treatment from the Washington
Government. Not a few see In the last
notes a tone of "stlf-coiiBtltuted supreme
Judge nf the world,"
The American nolo formed an nil ab
sorbing tophi 011 the Herlln Slock Kx
cliunge, where almost without exception
It was Interpreted very optimistically.
As 11 result of It the rcumrknhle strength
shown by the llrrlln market In the Inst
lew daH 1 onlliiiied, while iiausuclloiis
showed tho utmost liveliness with rising
quntaliniiH in ninny specialties. The
total volume of huslness vvns considered
unusiiully inige.
BELIEVES CRISIS PAST.
Sptrtal Cablt Dmimlci tu Tine Sex.
llrrlln Considers President's Jin-
lily Aci'rptnlilr otr Delivered,
Paiiis, May 11. The correspondent of
Tub Sun understands that the reply of
roMfliiiod on Hi rand Page.
HUimoN HIVKR HAY UNI NTARTH
,nmnrrow from New York, 8.1. from Albiny,
iiac.
GLEAN BILL GIVEN
I. R. T. BY BERW1ND
Says Xo Director Has Slight
est Conception of Any
Irregularities.
FOUND GAYNOR AFFABLE
IJridyf Commissioner Knu-kc
Describes the Centre Street
Loop Situation.
I-Mward .1 rtcrwlnd. president of the'
Herwlnd. White Coul Mining Company,'
director of the Intcrbornugh and one of
Its) largest stockholders, assured tlio
Thompson legislative committee In em
phatic language vestcrday afternoon
that whatever "nigger" there was In
the woodpile of subway ond ele
vated third tracking negotiations pre
.. .. . . .. ... '
spell ,....,.. ..NllWer In the wood- f
' . " ".. 'V. . i" . .
"" w"" ''"v.n.. ,w.rPr. i r.um
-Moss, the conmi ttcc's counsel, seized
, ... .,..,. ,.
" .... . v. ..r."
i'"h '
P. Khopts's "commitments anil obllg.i- I gemng supplies irom aoroao.
tlons," but Mr. Herwlnd wai equal lo ' "erm.ni papers are quoted as com
the situation. ' n'alnlng of fond scarcity, but mot are
"Far bo It from me to Insinuate that ascribing It to the shameless and
you handed anybody any money " be-1
g.in Mr. Moss, but Mr. Herwlnd did not i
let him finish tho sentence.
"I'll go further than that," said the
witness, leaning out of his chair lo
gesticulate. "I have no knowledge of
ny device, or any agencj. or any j
means being used by which money w'as j
,,JHi,ed 'or t,,e 'merborough. No mem-)
b,;r f th board him the slightest ton-
" Wlwi that there were uny t
v '
- ,
detectives. We didn't. need un." ,
(luentlnned In Uelull. '
icsptu ounluny w lieu tne projKisiU con-
tract to John I". Stmeus collapsed. The '
. ,,ii,..,.-- 1.,i-. i ,t ,,,t..,i , l.,vi-
lUu.lhcl. cullll),111.!( sll.L,
Intel es. did not make ,he company .,c-
.-, ot.ibl. . lo J. P. Morgan, lie eniijlia.
sin-.i t,e r.lct that the Gillespie cum-
1 II.,.., , 1
i""' " .V......V. ....e.o u.
per cent, loiiiinlssion the commission
Ml'i Stevens asked from Mr Shunts--
.....I Ui.1.1..t 1 ,.n 10 ... r ....it
b .Vie tlVetrby in king 0 Her tuil on
la truiittcllon .
l' "i don know that that Is so.' said I
Mr. Herwlnd. 'Thero were about ten
bidders
What
our
wh
uKeii an. .muss.
"No. tmr Intercut ceastd when the'
contract was let to lilm as tne low eat
bidder."
..I.: 1 ..... . . ..,.1. 1. It
3 . ..Ti . .1. " ., ...i, . .
li.trc iui.,n '.a... m.ij v ..
and obligations?''
The witness shuok his head. lne.
mxt and last question of tho day w.u.
whether any oilier Intel borough dlrec
turn had liuiulied Into the matter, and
Mr. Herwlnd said he did not think so,
n'..'. k..,..,i ,,. .... ,.,im...i
111,1 .UIIIIIIUIIV . VI..".- -.V ...tt.ll.u
wllh Mr. llerwlnd's statement that he
hnd done nothing and the other .lit. -dor
likewise to "follow up" thc accusations
of George McAi.eny that "unnecessary,
unusual und exorbitant" ptotlts weie
proposed Hi tin. Stevens conn act foi tfie
..t..v..ieii work
u j
III Ti.ll. Will. ti,u..r. j
.
The committee attached slgnltlcance to I
nr. Jferwilius lesillliuny in., 1 1 icsiiciik
Shunts did not tell the board of dliectors
Hint Stevens was willing to do thu third'
tracking for lb per cent, commission I
when the executive committee was ills-
cussing the Question of compensation, or
would accept the contract for 7'j per ,
cent, commission. (
Mr. Herwlnd and Messrs. Helmont,
Vdtidcrbllt und Kreedinaii comi.rlsed the!
InterborouBh executive committee, said 1
ii.e wiinnuM which biimlieil in,, si nf .he I
early subwuy negotiations. Mr. ll.'rwind
recalled a visit he paid to the late Muyor
Guvnor's olllce to assure the Kx.-cutlv.. 1
that the Intel borough wanted him to'
know as much about the subways as the
1, n. 1,...
und Gillespie was tho lowest. A1, P," ' "- , " ' 'V Mexico city. nen-oci cK oao arrive.
hc.Oid with the money 1, none of ' "Th, henl.b of 7h. ehltdrVn ' ",e advices nau nm u was siaieo ai
business." klVrv a ,;, ;,i J,a. .1.1. I'bregons ear ma. xnere ,,-..... nu
'Yuu never did aiothing to Ilnd out ,,,,,,, ,r,, ,.rfl,,,,' fo. t,.. imeting to-day
at Gillespie did with the money?" ,...7. Karller In the day i.en. !-cott nau am
sented to Muor Gaynor ut a leceptlon peace Intrigue, around the Chancellor's
at Mr. Vandcrbllt's house, broached the palace and the Itelchstng. Active com
ptlbwny subject there nnd mnde nu up- j munleatlnns have been passing between
polntment to talk things over Willi air. I
Gaynor a few days later.
"1 told the Mavor," said Mr Herwlnd.
"that the subway question was of greut
Importance and that thcie was a gieut
dual In it of which he wus not cognizant.
He said, 'Vnu'ie Just tho man I want to
see,' und made 1111 appointment. I told
him at thul time that It wus Important
for us thut ho have our confidence and
suggested that he send some one whom
he trusted lo study the merits of our pro
posal. This met with nn Immedlute re
sponse. He said, 'Do you mean that?'
and I said, 'Yes, I do.' And shortly af
terward he sent Klngsley Martin and Mr.
IngeiToll to our olllces."
Mr. Uerwind did not know whether his
visit was before or after the Shonts visit.
He replied to Mr. Moss's question, "How
did you break the Ice?" referring to tho
Mayor's diatribes against the Interbor
ough, by saying that neither he nor the
Mui or wax embarrassed and that he
never had a smoother conversation In his
llfo than that one with Mr. Gaynor. Mr.
Hhonts, ho said, told I1I111 of the visit to
HI, Juineo to talk subway matters with
tho Mayor. Mr. llerwind thought that a
very natural thing for Mr. .Shoiitn to do.
He didn't know whether Mr. Shonts men
tioned tho piesence 'of Mlrnbeau I.,
Towns and John C. Campbell.
'I'll "Unsigned" Offer.
Turning to the "unsigned" Inter-
borough subway offer alleged lo havo
been ngieed upon nt Chnlriniiii Wllleox's ,
110110 in .Mnrcii, 1910, by which the
Inlerhnrough proposed to spend Its own
money und the company's later decision
to get city money loo. Mr. llerwind found
his memory hazy. Hut, said he: "If
that 1 urn was made It was mnde for
some very good reason that I do not re
call lo-daj. However, I uhull look Into
the matter nnd find out what it was.."
"What made you think the city could
be Induced to put Its money Into sub
wnys with the Intcrborough?" asked Mr,
Moss.
"That's a matter I don't know. I
Itlon't know how tho dual system arose."
"Where did you get thc courage to
make such a proposal?'
"Thero were other plans pioposed
which made It dangerous for ue to put
our own money tn, as we flint con-
ConflRurrf on Fourth Page,
SEE KAISER EAGER
Reports Itcnching ' London
Hint nt. Pence Before the
Knri of July.
irrXOER A BIO FACTOR
Said to Be Driving Teutons
Toward Surrender Vienna
Hnrd Hit.
Special Cable lie. patch to Tnr Sis '
I.onpo.v. May 11. Several of tho
morning newspapers print long reports
from neutral and German Socialist
eourees of an acute food shortage and
consequent discontent In Germany and
Austria.
The economic pinch, according to
these reports, has become Intolerably
in 10 ,h' ,,rltl9l "Inekade.
and even rich neonle .-.r suffering
"'"
'as a result of tho lack of milk. The
.Ilnlonmts of o.hrr nti, m iiertin
..J .. .
"arlclous exploltntlon by farmers and
tradesmen and Instances are cited of
mis exploitation and great exasperation
Is expressed.
From another source comes romnlalnt
that numerous advertised substitutes for
familiar foods have been found to be
- - "-"' M
routed as serious. Numerous textile nnd '
other mills time beti close.l. owing to
he nubility to obtain raw material, ami
fhr erde.s for military uniforms
have Peon declined. The financial con-
onion is state,! to be unsound.
Ae.rdlng to Hie DiHty .Vrict. Infnr-
niatloii has 1 11 receded to the effect
that the utinoMilierv In Vennn mnv he
"- " '"' f France before the !
'pwll""n T'" V'V nnd frivolity. I
...,, , roni.1.,,lUHn,vll f MaTinK the
al.s and the desu.. to gpt the mo.-t out i
01 1110 neroie trie ( aiatroplie," the paper
learns, are the rlilef features of the at-
'"""I'here in the Austrian capital, where .
' '""' notlieal.to uneasiness.
Vlrnnn Conditions Hrrluus,
, gon. Mexican Minister of War. remain.
"11a... il. ,v.K r.l. .Att,.. .u. ,i..i,..ln.. 1.1. .1.1.. t Dm river nil dnv.
.. '".win... ui- ,iuiy
., , inrormani continues, "there Is
the fear of a nation heading for bank-
r,,try The cotton mills of llohemla!
. '
w. ,",l,",1ri"", t mn3 ,T'e
"u'u "f, T1 J-'nlnB serious
"nd eggs' COt,0n mc:,t '
.iri. v, !
enmity
j,
Germi
us- toward Germany
erman peace talk continues p, f.tci.
nate the home papers and deduction are
' I
drawn therefrom ns well as from the
'eports of German scarcity
. ,.- ,.,s... ....... . irn-i ...noci ,
' ' f'" .
.,, i ' Z " I ' .. "Vl",.r,,,, ,0. " .l,"nc'!
' i'' f:'C' ,l'i,1AnlV,Kra'lnr
et... . . .. . ... . ...
Gerald sent Secretary of the Kmbassy
Giew to Copenhagen (n telegraph 11 long
repori to Washington ll garbling the
,,,, iUL,..p'Dm. ..... r. . I.I .1
..i,.-i-i.'il r. n 11 in i , .. rirni .. me
. .1 t, . . ,
. ......i' . ym wiioaiiii-. ...u-
'""' wn nnc wlthdrm." anx'lctv '
1 ' ' nc ltl 'I' '"'r' ,
?."r,.!"J' answering'
M,e . .ei man plea for hurried peace for 1
everybody knows that Germany, while
h"" having great n-erves In men nnd
munitions, no longer has enough money, ,
have the Germans patience and
nerve tn resist rnr iiiiuir mntillu tnnr
tn, ijpjulllng situation.
II.. niter Corel hit ietlun.
I
Hunger is forcing the Germans In.
the direction of complete surrender. '
Pefore this takes place the Kaiser is
anxious to secure mediation, believing
that better t.nns could bo obtained now ,
'' In order to secure President
W H-on s good will Germany nrknowl-
edges that the S.iseex was sunk by a
German submarine, while on the other
band the German pres professes to 1.
v,'rv wc satisfied with the American
reply to the last German note.
,m someming 1 s orew ' -
In in Herlln reg.udlng America The
all- Is thick with Inlrlinie etw...li. II..
neriin nun wn.insiuinr vim i.ernsiorrr.
Many German agents in Amsterdam are
going so far us to say that there will be
pence oeinre ine eiiu or ..uiy. Aoooqy
In Amsterdam believes this, though It
Ih not doubted that Germany Is strain
ing every nerve tn turn the dream Into
a tangible reality."
The Rotterdam correspondent of the
nlj .Vail on the other hand ridicules
tho Idea of building anything on the
"German peace prattle which has been
delllierately allowed to ho circulated In
the hope of Inspiring Germany's oppo.
nents with careless confidence." The
correspondent declares that Gcnrnny Is
"still full ot tight,"
GERMANS TO EAT GOATS?
Slinrron mid Crows Also Ordered
Killed, la Iteport.
Sptriat laMe llftpatch foTnic
l.o.snoN, May 10. A news agency
despatch from Copenhagen ascribes to
German newspapers tho statement that
the German Government has ordered
reindeer, goats, storks, crows, starlings
and sparrows to he killed for food.
The Socialist l.cipsiger Volkateitung
bus been suppressed for n weok, It Is
said, for a libelous uttnek on the Govern
ment, accusing It of mismanagement of
the food supply.
t-rinniVM PPIVr Ujrt'n "
OVLll iV 1 IlliMLifj ItAl CAJ.
I in I In ii. Ilrtiirntnic From German,
Iteports Fnnilne Conditions.
Fptnal Cable Dispatch to The Brv,
Iiomk, May 10. An Italian, who lived
for five yearM In Germany, und who has
Jiut returned to Italy, confirms tho slnte
incut that food is senrep In Germany
nnd almost prohibitive Ui price,
PrisonerM of war have been put on
short rations nnd nro allowed only six
ounces of bread a day. Dally bread riots
111 1. repressed wllh machine guns. The
Crown Prince, tho Itnllnn states. Is the
most hated man In Germany,
S I.ONO INLAND RAILROAD.
The sprinji thus IhIiIh will lake eflert
Mny 14th, wllh tprreased service. Including
the lUinptnns special Friday A Monday
all. parlor-car train. Air.
AMERICANS ARE ORDERED
OUT OF MEXICO; CARRANZA
MA Y NOT ASK RECALL NOW
GEN. PERSHING BACKS UP
HIS FORCE TO THE BORDER
Instructed to Recall Cavalry in the South and to Occupy
Fortified Base at Colonia Dublan
Pending Conference.
Ki. Paso, May 10. With the army (
backing up to the border In Mexico, all
Americans ordered to leave the country
and 10,000 new troops coming to reen
force those In Mexico or on the border,
there was considerable speculation to
day over what the outcome would be,
" '"' '? T? ''''
matter In the light that the United States
had reached a definite decision not to
cjine out of Mexico with Its forces until
It Is good and ready nnd that these nr
but preliminary steps to meet and check
mate any move the de facto Government
of that country may attempt.
Consul T. D. Kdwards In Juarez re
ceived a message this afternoon from the
State Department at Washington to
order all Americans In his district to
leave Mexico at once. He gave tho In
formation to the newspapers and corre
spondents ns official.
Consul Kdwards and wife, of Juarez,
came to F.1 Paso to spend the night
, n.iL from Washington ' to all Aineri'
after the Consul had niado public his
cnn ),s district to leave Mexico,
This is the ttrst time thu Consul has
,.omc , pk,e for the night He.
r.ntly when ho was out of the city on
business Mrs. lMwards came to 1:1 raso.
h came simultaneously with knowl-
rnK,. of the fact that Gen. Pershing has
t...n ni.i in r,,it hpk tnwiril tho border
w, ,' force, now ll. Mexico in order
to shoiteu his line of communication and
put 1,1m closer to the American border
and the reenforcement of regulars and
mllllla called out yesterday,
To-day was another holiday in Juarez
t was the fifth anniversary of the cap.
,urw of
of the Mexican town from the Diaz
forces by tbe army under Pascual Orozco
and Franc sco .vianero ana lien, onre-
-
Conference Held,
,. . .,,t. ri, to his car In
Ki ,. cxpct.tlng a conference with
c,hrfB0Mi ' llUl 1 . thc day wore on none
cameM,out nnd Gen Obregoi, announced
that he was awaiting advices from
there would be another conference to
unregon receiveu novices irum men
Governments. Gen Kunston remained
here during the day to be with Gen.
, American nor the Mexican
'Gene .1. appealed deeply concerned over
I the negotatlons. It w a i confirmed from
loth sides that Gen Obregon had offered
CI. I'll.
at the conference last night to closely
guard the international border if the
I tilted States would withdraw Its troops
II r HVl " UUIC I ll' ll 1 1 i III I it si I
Krst sUp! )ttaril apparent wlth-
drnwal w"r0 ,akf" ,,' t,,H S,a,!'
,.,!,- when Gen. Petshlng was In-
, to rPcaI1 Wnli,, , ,v.onla
"lr '
..
rjAIin nl nil DDrUrMTUFi
DUIUD I LU1 iRLlUnlLU
BY AUSTRIAN CONSUL
i-:.. li.s SpCl'I't SPl'VHT Mllll
, u( Ciorillllll l'ltlls
n lUoW I'll Plllllt.
Ci.evki.aND. May 10. Guaianteelng to
destroy the plant of tho William Tod
.. ln Voungstown. where shrapnel
-ompan in ouiikstown. wn.r .nraine
hlls Hre made for the AlllCJ, .lohtl
Swierz. a German working with Charles
Dewoody, who he didn't know was a
Government secret servico officer, reached
the point where he burled twenty. five
pounds of dynamite near the entrance of
1 . . .
,m lllam
His arrest and the exposure of the
"plot" resulted from n tip which Krnest
I.udwig, Austro-llungarlan Vice-Consul
here, gave to the secret service depart
ment. . . ,
Dewoody, who wns arrested wllh
Swierz to-night. Is Investigating further
In an effort to determine whether Swierz
had Intended to obtain assistance In car
rying out the "plot."
According to Dewoody, Swierz wrote
t3 I.udwig several days ngo offering to
destroy the Tod munitions works for
J2.",t)00. Lrtidwlg notllled the Federal
otllcers and Dewoody was present when
Swierz called to make tho arrangement
for cuirylng out the plot. Dewoody, In
the guise of a Herman sympathizer, w.u
nsked by Swierz to aid In the project.
He says Swierz bought twenty-five
pounds of dynamite and with the us.
ststance of Dewoody secreted it near the
Tod plant.
Dewoody notified the Mahoning county
authorities and while ho and Swierz
were at the spot tho pollen appeared und
arrested them. Swierz was much sur
prised lo llnd that his fellow plotter w.u
a Federal officer.
WOULD OUST DELBRUECK.
German Vlee-Chaiicellor AsUrd to
Henlirn Ilia Oftlee,
Special Cable Uetpatcf. lo Tim His.
Amsteiidam, via Ixmdoii. May 10.
Munich newspapers say that Minister
Hnns Delbrueck, tho German l.upcilal
Vlce-Chancellor, has been Invited to re
sign owing to his failure In the organi
zation of the food supplies.
(irrmnnr Itefnaea Indemnity
for
Mnklner nf Tnhnntln.
Lonpon. May in. A Central News
despatch from Amsterdam savs thai, ac
cording to Herlln reports, the German
Government has declined to admit that
the Itoyal Dutch liner Tubantln w.u
torpedoed by a German submarine or
other German agent and has refused to
Indemnify the owners of the lost vessel.
Dublin, 1 20 miles south of the border,
nnd establish his base there pending the
filial Fettlenient of the discussion be
twien Gen. Scott and Gen. Obregon hi
to how long tho troops shall remain In
Mexico.
This will mean the mobilization of
the entire expeditionary force at Co-
lonia Human, except for a compara
tively small force guarding the shortened
llns of lommiitilcations and thc outposts
stationed near Dublan, Thc Mormon
town Is believed to have been selected
ns the base because there nr com
paratively few Mexicans living there
and because of Its nearness to the rail
road. No time has been announced for thc
withdrawal of the American troops from
the advanced base, but It I" expected
that troop movements will begin soon
and the advanced calvary scouts will
bo called In from tho country to the
south nnd west of Sail Antonio toward
NamliUlpa and the withdrawal will then
be made slowly toward Colonia Dublan.
Colonia Dublan Is but Hfty miles
south of the western border nnd means
that the troops In retiring on this as
a base will be back more than JOO
miles of the southernmost point they
have reached since entering Mexico.
Gen. Kunston, besides sending word
to Gin, Pershing to-day relative to thu
redlsposltlon of his forces, made plans
for the mobilization of the militia and
tegulir troops soon to concentr.i.e on
th"' border.
The eleven companies of Coast Artil
lery ordered from the Atlantic seaboard
In tli. l.i.r.lnr ..ru I it u I . ...t .I 1... r....
Kunston to-day to concentrate at Fort
Sam lloii"ton, where the Te..is mllltla
will mobilize. The artillerymen will be
Used, If thero lb time beforo active ser
vice is required of them, ns instructors
for the mllltla.
The five battel Irs of Kiel.! Artillery or
dered from Kort Sill were Instructed to
reenforce tho artillery at l!l Paso, which
would make six batteries of twenty-nine
guns here ready for distribution wher
ever they might be needed.
Mllltln lunlllnit Trains.
All mllltla companies throughout Ari
zona, New Mexico and Texas vere mobil
ized nnd awaiting transportation to
day. The i:i Paeo company prepared to
night to leave for San Antonio. It Is
short nineteen men, who are nn duty
with the I'erxhlng army hi Mexico as
iruelt drivers. They will he sent back
New Me.vJco was short the number of
men needed, o ordered the formation of
' 1 I'I lll.tl .'HI
h new conifiin) al Alamogordo to-day.;
Klfty men were enlisted nt a mass 1
meeting and others are expected to enlist
to bring the company viji to the icqulrcd '
vcar strength.
Two companlri of the Tn enty-thlril
Infantrv were sent from KI Paso to-dny '
to Devil's Ulver. Tex. to guard the
tall steel viaduct of the Southern Pa-
clflc over that Ml. -am The viaduct !.s
one of the tnllest tallrna.l structures In
the world. It is five miles from the Mex
lean line, near Comstock, Tex.
SAY GERMAN LOSSES '
ARE NOW 2,822,079:
.
Teuton C.isiiiil tips nt Vcnlim
1 tu.Pli 1 llMlllllll S 111 Llllllll
I'lni'cd nt -JlM.noo. Thosp
of FlTllell nt 11(10110
' 11 1 """
. ,
I.om.o.n, May M.The niimbei- of
German casualties In the war is placed
by an official lliitisli estimate Issued to
day at Si:', 07!'. The casualties In
April alone amounted to yi,lf2. So far
fiCt,ri..2 German soldiers have been killed
In the war. according to tin, statement,
which reads as follows.
German casualties, exiiissHe of cor
lections, were repotted during the
month of April, 191i'., ns follows:
Killed or died of wounds, 17,t,'.5: died
of sickness, 2.31.' : prisoners, l,!2
missing, t'.,'.'l?; sevelely wounded, 14,
fi.7: wounded, t.urtl ; slightly wounded,
3K,9i7; wounded leinaluliig wllh units.
u.iitii. Total. Pl.liii".
These, ndded to those rcnrte.l In
previous' months. Including corrections
lenoited in April. l.'Mtl. biine ih tot..!
ieporteil
ieporteil In German oili.-l.il lists sine.
the beginning of the war to: Killed or
died of wounds, tilit.&d! ; died of sick
ness, 41,.:";. ; prisoners, 137, 70S: miss
ing, HG.illG . severely vv minded, .TCi,
r.K. , wounded, L'Sl.iiST: slightly
wounded. l.oL'.'i, '.'!'.' , wounded remain
lug with unl's, H7,!i:,t;. Total, j,.
S2S,n;it,
These tlguies include all Get man
nationalities - Prussians, Hadrians,
Snxnnsanil Wiierlletnbergers. Thev do
not iuchide naval or colonial troops.
Tho llguies given III the oltlelul es.
titnutc lend lo contlini the French es
timate that more than ino.nnn Geimans
have been killed. u.i i i, -
ing in the battle of Verdun. '
Thete was little or no lighting of any
Importance from January P. last, when
Harold J. Tenuaiit, Under Secretary of
War, announced that the German losses
Hinounted to ',r, 35,7 S S, until February
"1, when the Verdun struggle began,
so It is probable that tho '.'KD.L'Si Cur
man casualties occurred for the most
part in tho Verdun battle,
A prlv.itn message from the corre
spoiulont of Tim St'.s' at Geneva, re
ceived e..terday. Mated Hint tho Gor
unit) losses at Verdun, according: to re
lrts from icputnblo sources. In Switzer
land, amounted to about 291,000.
Tho French losses, he snld, were In
lh nelghlmrhnoil of 110,000, of which
tn.nnn weio prisoners, Tho French liavo
taken very few prisoners since tho be
ginning of the Verdun campaign.
ORKAT ItKAR KFHINO WXTKR.
State Depart men I. Tells
Consuls to Warn t S.
Citieus.
FEAJt JIKLI) KOK WHAT
"3IIGHT JIAITEX"
First Chief Wauls .Joint
Patrol on JJordcr to
Hunt Jiandits.
OJUIKUOX TXSTIilTTKn
to ri(ii:Tni; pi;AX
Xo Conference. Held at KI
Paso Consul Kdwards
Quits .Juarez.
Wash inctov, May 10. A. Imli.il Wins
low, In command of the American naval
squadron on th.j we.t rout of .Mexico,
reported to tho Navy Department to
day that the steamer Newport had
taken sixty-eight American refugees
from Manzanlllo and twenty-three from
Mazatlan nnd was proceeding with them
to Snn Diego, c.il.
This followed orders from t ie Statu
Department to American Consuls In
Mexico to warn Culled States citizens to
! ,cavo ,n! country
The extent, however, to which Govern
ment officials here are taking Into ac
count all tho possibilities of the situa
tion Is Indicated by the warning to
American citizens. This warning given,
it Is said, was Inspired moin by a fear
of what might occur than by any mani
festations of hostility on the part of the
do facto Government or on th part of
the Mexican people toward Americans.
Intimations, were conveyed to the SU'h
Department to-day hy kim-, Arredondo.
the Mexican Ambassador designate, that
Carrana might 1: willing to ah union
his demands concerning the withdrawal
of the American forces- r.(i th ,,,1,1.-1
of ImpoMng a time li-n ; on the pies,
eiiee ,,f tile Am- rl. a-i f..rce- i Mexico,
The Klrst Chief would ! . th. pro
vided Gen. Sett w. .mil confer .!.
I V
" " "", 'lH'Mlon ..f Jnmt
patrol of tlio bonier by tho mllltan
fon.s nf both roiintrUs, pending the
outcome uf ,le (!l,M rxlM.,...
tion
., ,,
lne -""Meaii i:mli.isy it was hinted
,lu,t Carr.inza had already Instructed
Gui. Ubirnon to that .ml.
Hope for I'eii.cinl .l.iiciiine.
While no comment was f..rtli.-oming in
cillclnl clrcli"! concerning the alternative
proposal the Met that Gen. Hiregou
Mill appears ipfirotm of continuing the
negotiations wpu Gin. Scott is. taken
us a favorable ngn.
While there s no reason in offic a
quarters here to believe that thero is
. j rim. i.eiween i a,--
any o.ing.r of
rauza ami (iliregon on the qiies-ion of 1
I withdrawal, ron.sldcr.itlon is given to the
"!sslhll"y 'ut "igou. for the piisem
a.hnniage which it mirfht give him. mav
' l"',, WM. ,'""n y- tw'.
point Jn the last am:s., however. It
. Is believed that neither Cananza nor
id.regon would K , ,h extent of at-
1 tempting to force a wiliduiwal.
I In Mexii-an quail, -s It Is sahi that
1 arianza himself n thoroughly alive t.i
J , "I1,1 I'niled States coul-i
not withdtnw lis tores ftom M.n ,.,
this time 111 view of t',,. recent la ill
at Glenn Sjirlngs and ltoqulH.is,
The Inst lep.iit received at the War
Department fioiu Gen. Scott icachel
Washington about o'clock to-nlglit It
merely stated that ho expected tn con.
ter with Gen, wbugoii at .1 o'clock tins
afternoon. Sine then thci has b, eq
uothlng iveclveii to loulltm pi ess rewut
that the meeting was later pomim.ii.i
until tu-inortovv.
No Hens.. 11 fur ( once. ...
From th standpoint of olllcl.iN hert
theie Is no particular reason for concein
I .." "7 " "rr?m ilUllio v, ,th-
' ' , V rnn eiits reu"011" Mw" '
I "''. ' 'OV . mments.
, ,,b lH I'"hite.l out that Gen.
1 unci...! m .I.... nt ui.iKo mo necessary
ledlsposttlon of foices along tho bonlei
mobilize in., .state, mllltla organizations
of New Mexico, Arizona and Texas which
have been called out, nssuubln the new
legular organizations on tho way In the
border and get his puisitlt of the Glenn
Spilngs raiders well under way. H is
nb-o iKiinte.i nut that tho delay Is en
abling Gen. Poinding to ndlapo.e Ins
foircs tu the best advantage.
Scervtnry linker Indicated to-night
that thero Is no intention at present of
adding uny more Hoops, tu tho border
army unless tho situation should take
1 tut 11 for the worse" I In admitted.
1 how ev'or. that before drawing anv fur.
li
would consider the inlvisilillltv .if t.-.li.
.... .,, .i-1 ... tlll.M.l
ing more State mllltla Instead,
According to the most aeeurato fig.
urea obtainable. Gen. I'utist.iu with tho
new troops, regular and mllltla, tint
have been placed under bis coiitiol will
hnvu between 4fi,uuu nun nn.iiuu men
for uso along tho border and In Mex
ico, The War Department Is declining
to make publlu tho exact figures.
Ambassador Arredondo called nt the,
Htutn Department this afternoon and
In the nbsenco of Secretary I.iiusliig, who
was uttendlng the horsn show, confeired
with Coutucllur Polk generally legnrdlnff
thc situation.
lla took with lilm no pioposals mid
IiIh references to the possibility of Car
ranza withdrawing tho demand for a
time limit on tho American troop In
Mexico Is understood to havo been mada
Incidentally.
Tho State Department reports rum
Manzanlllo nro in tho effect that tho re!
ugees who left thero came for the most
part from tho GuaciaiaJ ira dlslrb ' w .
