J7
r
1
OUENAii
7
n
1
GREENVILLE, OHIO, THURSDAY, MAY It, 1916
No. 45
VOL, 84 Established 1832.
&BMEN
. : cm shoes increased 70 per cent lor uettV3DUre. a urec U1 piuuv..
rouucai wuaoiF - - - ' . L...J: a ..if,.
- W h 'oton the period October, 1913, to July, Mrs. M. J. Ryncarson is spen- uuie aim wc Hu-... -
r . ,1914, compared with a similar ding the week with Frank Luz- ceed to nigner places m
Washington. May 10. (Special . . . . ment of knowledj,e be content
Correspondence.) One f the . , - ; to enter some vocation for life
sifinanf the times' in the House I : ...... I - . . . ...... : i offoinmpnf.
? ; , , I present tariff placing 6noes on gave this place a business visit iat
is the fact that usually wnenuuu 1. . ; We will see if this will be th
... line ties not, w' vm.w i muajf. l
bdHv is in session in committee
i
months of its operation, had al- Several cars of a freight train ending or beginning of a more
of the whoK the Republican st5mulate1 shoe importa. iumDed the track in nassipi. here exalted career in life. To some
rnembers outnumber the Demo- havA L.: i k., it will doubtless bring content,
,. , I uuna aim inns iiiuriung, uui iinu 111 uic uj i--
crats. Faithful count of this has j , inroada whjle to others it may be an in.
... ..,
made in our home market had not a bad wreck was avoided ; the exr spiration to a larger in e.
the outbreak of the "present war J tent of damage done was break- On last Friday nig! the Alum
stopped foreign shipments of ing the ties of the track for a f our academy held their an-
shoes. distance of more than forty rods hual meeting in our school audi
hetween the cike crossing and tonum and enjoyed a feast of
"It looks to me as thougn the our depot building. Lucky that thin23 for the body, and a
nresent administration is looking nA irrpater damage resulted. feast of soul, consisting of some
for an excuse to get our troops wflr; nf th J sort of a program well rendered
I , , .
out of Mexico," said a southern Greenville Masonic fraternity vis- next tmn aneaa 01 us 13
Democratic memoer oi uongress ited Qur lod last uwu"
to a group of colleagues. hit and attended the inspec-
. . ..... i
venture the prophecy that the tion exercises and assisted in
day such a step as this is taken, wnpkiniJ, the fellowcraft decree.
24- wmaamm 4-It S V A An !Ol4ir ITvl
uiiwawwciuvi yuiv "" after which refreshments were
..... i
' teen kept time and ' time again
by employes and different rnetn
bers, On the whole, the average
attendance during this session
has been largely in favor of the
Republicans. When a roll-call
comes, the Democrats pour over
from the Office building. This
means that the Democratic mem
bers have little time to attend to
the public business, but are in
th jir offices handling correspon
dence in an effort to save their
political scalps from the people
back home. With the almost
certain1 rrospect of - the next
power. The people in this coun
try are growing weary of the
House being Republican, Demo- Mexican of the President.
t J i i i i I
crats m Close districts are naving and whiIe nobody wantg war yet
not only very ousy, duc anxious, r belifive lhfi sentiment is in fav.
dys just about this time.
XXX
A few months ego the Presi
served by Mrs. J. E. Miller and
partaken of by about forty mem
bers of the order. A general
good time was had by those pre
sent. Rev. C. H . Gross of Green
ville lodge seems pretty apt as an
inspection officer.
as has betn our wont will, with
oat doubt, be duly celebrated, as
this place never fails in that re
gard.
Mav8. XOB
if
Crop Conditions.
Wheat prospects are now esti
mated at 65 per cent, compared
with an average, a decline of 1
per cent since the report issued
bv this department, April 1. The
- . . . j ; i. . .sm I
un iasi isaturaay nignt a vci fc month wjth excessive
hard rain visited this vicinity, ac- coM rains hag been most severe
or of ending the murder and loot
ing that is taking place in that
revolution-ridden country. The
fact that duriner the Dast few
to Tammany Hall - by appointing I mooua WQ4. of ammn
rtrio Hiair favorpd braves as I ... , . A. o companied by a hard wind storm, tVlA he nlant. CorresDon
v imtion nave Deen sniypeu w jnr i i " - -
nostmaster of New York. The . ,;,, va doing a great deal of damage in . ta ffenerally note its unprcm-
, i raiuii xiutco wni uud uc .
inAenaArmt : . Tpmnrftta of ' the L . ., ..... i- t j one way or another, the most j; . n Aunn an a n manv ste-
.uuvw.v... , I to uie American ueuuic. i uu. , - ---
un,iuMvu ii.y r- - I nnr r run ir enpre is inucii umcr- i i v.u
''j '1.. n... .-J.-1 I - . . J Fd Newbaurer's tobacco shed.1 aL. j i", '
ana xne-rresiuem, uawicu. ov i ence bet;ween villa and Carranza l . I tage oi tuts urigifmr tt-ra-nsu
lAn Tn Pnararifitic fashion ' : , . It. j-.::J short distance north of -here. It 1 n h' been nlowed up
v.v... ... . . anai mintt, mc iuuuuuauauuu .
he has now tried to dodge the is- andthe people of this country must have picked up the building and put to other Cjfop8 Xhe
.-a KV nmincr a member of the .. ;. ...V m ' bodily and carried some parts of nnrfuwpsf. cation seems to have
i wiu nnu ib uut. i . j
state senate who has friendly re- , ' " it across the road and dropped it 8uffered the most,, the present
iations to Tammany, but the sen- Dangers ol Draft. in an adjoinm uciu.
ator refuses to be the goat. He Drafts ftel better when we are "RevJ. H. Christian and H.
SmartWrap3 for All
Occasions.
Whatever else a woman fore
goes this spring, she is sure to
want one of the new ppring top
coats that are irresistibly smart
and becoming, besides being so
practically useful that they ap
peal to everyone in one form or
another.
Day and Evening Wear.
Perhaps the newest develop
ment in the coat for f.vening wear
that will go equally well at an af
ternoon affair, is the coat of satin
trimmed with marabout, 'which
promises soon to be over popu
lar.
This comes in flaming pink,
pearl gray and other light shades,
but meets a more practical de
mand in taupe lined with tur
quoise blue, Amethyst with pearl
lining, black with white, and
stone with buttercup yellow or
coral for contrast. Natural mar
about or black forms the collar,
cuff and bottom trimming, and
the wai-st is defined with shir-
rings that emphasize the flare at
the foot. Usually these coats are
the plain colors.
Rain Coats.
For touring or automobile use
the colored oil-skin coat introduc
ed last year continues a favorite,
but there are no end of rain-proof
cloths made up into top coats that
are excellent for general wea".
Convertible collars, patch pock
ets, odd belts an cape effects all
serve to smarten such garments,
and the few buttons used are se
lected to set off the cloth and de.
sign. Verona Clarke.
Watch Child for Worms.
Worms sap child's strength,
rob child of food and make child
fretful, irritated, nervous. Watch
stool and at first sicn or suspicion
of worms give one-half to one
lozenge Kickapoo Worm Killer, a
candy worm remover. Gives' im
mediate results, is laxative. Par
alyzes and removes tho worms,
improves digestion and general
health of child. Continue giving
Kickapoo Worm Killer until all
signs of worms are gone. 25c at
your druggist. Adv
III ' 'if
til i-
MtCal! Design
COURT HOUSE NEWS.
PROBATE COURT.
Order of private sale of real
estate returned and order of pub
lic sale issued in estate of Benj.
H. Raiser.
Motion for a new trial filed in
the John H. Miller road matter.
Order of public sale of real es
tate issued in' estate of Nettie
Pierson.
J. E. Blottman and Jacob Goetz
t
were appointed administrators of
estate of,Bernhart Blottman:
bond $12,000.'
Last will of Daniel Hufford was
admitted to probate and record.
Application filed to compromise
claim for wrongful death and re
SALOON BUSINESS
HOT PROSPEROUS
Many Ohio Liquor Licenses Are
Going Eegglng.
WATER WAGON IS POPULAB
8i .mi lar Condition Prevail Over the
Country and the Slump In the Con
sumption of Llqwort a, a Beverage
Tell the Story Decrease In Value
of Saloon Licensee in Chicago Esti
mated at $18,C00,OC0.
Columbus, O. (Special.) "Whilft
prosperity seems to cave come to the
country, it has not touched the sa
loonkeepers a) a class," said a Co
lumbus man who spends considerable
time in tho liquor Joints of the capital
city.
"I know possibly a half dozen sa
loonkeepers here who are making
seme Imoney," he continued, ''but
eside from these I can not name oth
ers w:io aie making more than a bare
living, while the great majority are
merely existing, hoping against hope
that conditions will change for the
I etter."
This gentleman, in explaining the
hard times among saloon men, point-'
ed to the fact that a Lalf hundred or
a'ore saloon licenses in Columbus are
rot working, ta nobody wants to en
gage in the business. Many of tho
saloons have cut down the number
0 their employes because the trad a
is so poor they are not Justified in re
taining them. One wholesale and re I
tail establishment dismissed its high
l.riced manager because trade was so
poor it did not justify his retention.
"There is one thing which used to '
be quite common in saloons, but
which you now seldom see," said the '
can quoted abovs. "Quite frequent-1
ly a man would enter a saloon, and
whether he knew the loiterers or not,
would invite everybody to drink with
him. This would start business and
frequently there would be sir or eight i
ir.unds of drinks. I have seen this
tut once in Columbus saloons in the
in, , nonara! treating ia not
) Ml J . " -" o
customary any more and this one fact
n'eans a big slump in sales." 8
Similar conditions are reported
from other Ohio cities and from ail
over the country. In the big wetl
centers of Ohio there are rewer M
lienor licenses than these wet com-1
raunities are entitled to.' Saloon men!
are selling out if they can find buyers,.
p.nd it is not 'unusual for a saloon-
deeper to quit business voluntarily,1
while bankruptcy proceedings involv
ing liquor dealers are not uncommon.
To show this condition prevails
elsewhere, the Chicago Journal re
ports in that city iiqnor licenses a
few years eco sold at a premium as
high as $3,000. This bonus has drop-
t.rd to 1100. The Journal says the
slump in value of licenses in that city
will aggregate $18-000,000.
There is an ever increasing num
her of men who are on the water
vagon and who do not go Into sa
condition being but 48 per cent
i
Lf an averflw. The damaere re
will not take the nostmastership hot and DersDiring. just when 1 Miller are attendin-? the district I norterl bv Hessian fly and other
, . r. Lu t A A r
... I . ... . V e-ll 1 1 I . .
placed between the devil and the I result is Neuralgia. Stiff JNecK, church, held at urooKvuie me i s the original seeded was below
deep" sea. In either event he J Sore. Muscles or sometimes an at- j first part of this week. . j a good average, and deducting
lnspa He lacked the nerve to go tack of Rheumatism. In such The Home Coming held at the ffom ms the area that will be
xi '. l. .At-U ' cH-olo-Wf Tamnift. I .noao onnln Clvin'o T.inimpnt. Tt. I PoooVi flrnvp church Vesterday I iit- ffM-nC! wVtdflf VlflTVPftt.
if i n in v it w i Li i x uvi v , taovo niyij wwt -' - jv w uiuti uu wmw viv , , i i - . . ,
,'nfn.or.t nnfl if he now Qtimnlatpa circulation to the sore attracted a laree attendance. It f n!a vfnr necessarilv be far three-quaiter length, but some- port of settlement of claim filed ,cn
put it out and the young men
J a I -I I I . ...... I . I .-,i i i o tiiiiHrnnro and not
- 1 - I - M I J ..1 J I . . n u lnwW-ll 1 1 f" ITT I I I D KI1UW 1 L 11) C. WIUU.BM
takes some one who is approved and painful part. The blood flows seems that people came irom iar belo a f Un average crop. mes a sorter or ivui ku m estate oi w m. naness. f- to be known a8 a patron 0, tUe
... i m I . . t x. i.ul i ' i. J n vQfw I - ,.i ii.ulics u'wn with crmic pfffft. I T.acf urill vf Mortiji P.hrist.ian I saloon.
by the inaepenaents, ne wm iau ireeiy ana in a snon urae V"iana near auu cujuycu i meuniavoraDie weatneroi uie " I - All this Is having its effect on the
to placate Mr. Murphy. . stiffness and pain leaves. Those good social time and listened to month has seriously retard- very n.iaDorate. was admitted to proDace ana re- consumpuon or uBB"fo;nw
I . m -k 1 TT J 1 . J i.ll f..u . A..f nVt1 I - m i l . I Pan fl.A nri-in thof Id nOClfTTlPn I rA T T4 rhM5flQT. WTO a an. . n. 1 Al X) annrAa fif
n t.r ft k n i rifiii 74 lew auic i ah tonrvi wwir ortn . unnno1 rrni s i rui tiic acm ivtiuw mvui6 LyiU, u j.i vuiw-mu v r i tivoivn tticiiliih ui iai".
i ww.-. w- - - cu XCWX Lit XJM. la. U11V1 "J T I I v v,. .
I I 1 - I .,1 Cnm oZt r-ar
t-j.. . ui. ache will find one or two applica-1 sneakers. will eo in late.
wnson neauuuaitcio cu.w - , - i . ..
' : 'vfln,vn,v Up tions of Sloan's Liniment will The funeral of D. E. Bosser- The township assessors' re- full fussy cape styles in tatteta in bond $10,000.
... .. v i T-ii 1.1. -i. I envra o-ratfnl rplief. The Sec-1 man. horn and reared on a farm nr.ra ahr,w' that last vear the changeables of delicate tints are Ruby Rhoades was committed
administration leaaera recall mai a" - -r ,-- - i m, . t ,
i. iir Am,of f Am. nizing pain gives way to a ung-1 nortn oi nere aiwui. uve mCO, oat3 area was i,6M,a6x acres. msnw. - . j . r
. : : i.s t.i- onil i Pnvor. n ninri. I mi jf f;nfo4-Viaf tpnsft of fit in these garments, I L.E.Harvey was appointed
-1.1.-1. i.1 Iknia I liniT HKIltSilLlUll Ui vvlUlUl V u UW UWUCU UJ 1 I I IK CUrrKHUUIIUIIlM Miuuaiv wiv - - I -
years ago, mat uwy. ' .. , , . . A . ... ...
arty machinery in working or- warmth and quiet rest and sleep eer of this vicinity and the last the area seeded to oats this year their smartness depending alto- administrator, with will annexed,
.... ' -i.- L rxAOQiKfa nnod fnr Neuritis Kirtv, anH 1oat.h of nine children nA witti last, ia 95 ne cent gether on their voluminous and of estate of Mrs. W. H. H. Min-
Hor and this vear tney lntenu-toi ' - - i " , -- wuv- , - i
iv - , . I ' .1 .... I I . . a 11 J 1 ; I ,
l f .Wnrlefl . But in 1912L the too. Price 25c at your druggist. 0f Solomon Bosserman's ' family, or 1,320,038 acres. These figures luxurious iuiiness anu ueuuiuug- ton.
. ' ' . : . ., .,, 7'tw1 Sam show that during these
only tor light evening wear, very pointed executor under said win; mofflthg there was a decrease
in th ctisumDtion of beer as com
pared witn the twelve months or ism
o 5.238,328 harrels. The decrease in
.Ml nnmnaruil wilh 191 6 WaS
si9i?;9 tmrrels. This means a de
crease of 9,030,846 barrels in 1915 as
compared with 1913.
GROVES SAYS "NEVER AGAIN"
result would have been the ame
even if the Democratic head
quarters had never been bpened
at all. That year the Republican
' division insured Vinson's elec
tion. This yea? there is no pre-
mium high enough to insure his
re-election. They may open
headquarters now aiid run. them
-on a tnreeshift-a-day plan until
Motor, Aue.
Tha world la Ailed with din and atrit.
awlftly moving scene;
Bo many people bo through life
Ulrmingnam jwumn.
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
C A ST OR I A
AdV was largely attended at his home are probably low, as no doubt ness of color. Later we shall see Garrett C. Shilt was appointed
in Bradford last Friday. He many correspondents have based smaller affairs in bertha and pel- guardian of Ollie Shilt and oih-
. i
died of infirmities due to old age, er estimates oh tht amount erine shapes to top summer frocks ers; bond $1000.
hrinff above seventveight years r., Bnum without considering becomingly and little odd vestees Sale of real estate conhrmed
'"O - - js v avw " I I
anA loft onrvivino- him a wi-1 KoU intanrlA for nats. ar?d Russian blouses of taffeta, and deed ordered made to tur
UAUf a ' - C iliCLllJ ilVIUM a.aaw.a.vB'WM -w v , I
dow, six children and a goodly Lut owing to the unfavorable gros-de-Londre and s i m i 1 a r chaser in estate of Henry Stiles.
been weaves. CJ. U tiuttord, u. u tiunord
----- - i
fAmknf In Warrij C.rwV ceme-1 : n;kli n zanA A oreater Velours Coats
bUl.ll " - 1 illJUUODlKl 1AJ v- - a
part of the plowed up wheat area
Cost Him Over Four Thousand Dol
i,m to Run Ohio Speakeasy.
c.h.na n (Special.) This Uttiei
n.iro has broken the record In the!
wav of the heaviest financial tribute!
laid on a liquor law violator in the!
ct.t Samnson Groves, a persistent
low hreaker. was arrested for runnlnd
a speakeasy and entered a plea osi
guilty. I
nmvPB was fined $500 and costs, his
hartender J100 and costs. Grovea had
t mv J1.000 on a bond he rorreitea
onrt also 11.000 Aikin tax, wun zuu.
afliiitinnal nenalty. Groves paid over.
j i Tt-.t-i. ' n nne ium $2,835.30 for his lawless
The very last word m smart executors under the will of Dan
- r
. ..' u.;.!ot,W!t richest ever Uncla Sam's pocketbook
election urae wcj v. o , ---
will make no ditference.
.'';' X X X . ,
'I believe the! provisions of
this bill are a'great advantage to
the boot and shoe industry of the
... i.M aunt? ran. "Uncle bam w mo I terv. '
, Aftu 't - ' - I - I - ? 1
enough to give u9 ail a farm.- Ail the . ... nf .,i Ka ,ftW tn oat- .ithonirh if coats for day wear, is the class ie Huff old: bond $2000,
same Just when the farmers are me i omnKsiiwJincin, cw vi I bv...- v. - ,
our academy were held in our the season continues DacKwaru n uev. ... -
O hilar en Orr
fOR FLETCHER'S '
CASTORIA
Catharine Brierly wa3 appoint-
.. ... i
hool auditorium and consisted will be planted to corn. ours, lined with matching silk. ed administratrix of estate of
of anlav. the nerformers of which In some sections clover and af- These come in all the browns, and Wm. Brierly ; bond $5000.
were the graduates, viz : Walter falf a are reported as badly f roz- run into sulphur yellows and pas- in yentory and appraisement
" i . - i ... . .i . .
HolWr Harrv' Warner. Ward en out. tel tints in a few instances, a filed in estate of Jacob Labig.
i . - . . .i -
Live stock generally is in good mouse gray is an especially sty- Order of private sale of per-!
VnTtwin unarMtv tf tha Hirht klml I TTT-ll WM1 J .. T?o4-U aw 1
SCt SS-SEKT MateaMRheaSwithsev- condign .d the losses dunnk lish and practical choice, since sonal property turned in estate
with anV COStume. I nf Wnrv J. Mnmiohor
jr u . ftthpTci asmstincr. aiioi wnom i tne wiutei uav itcch iwj ouguv. v. - - j - .......v...
tiye Peters, Democrat, of Massa-
rainy days.
1913 on the Underwood bUl Erf- ? 9 1;
perience proved him a poor pro- C A S T O R I A
pt. - Department of Commerce
figures show that imports, of 1 tSrSubscribe for the Journal.
rfnrA th. T.art wll. Pol- The Drosoect for fruit isestim- Wide adjustable spore couars are w v, tfrunbaugh was appom-
lowing the close of the play Prof, at 88 per cent, compared with an a feature of these wraps, both in ted administrator, with will an-
' " r . . Ta i.: nn -1'. t. iLa JnM i-nnoo on1 in rllP KlfWlf SI I mnvrirl aefnf a a Ca.Via A
J. H. Browd6r presented tne average.? , oernea v& per .ceu tuc vk ww u "w,
I ''"'. I ' . I f i xv nvUinU 1M I tTT - 1 3 tff
parchments- to ;tbe graduates, Many corresponaents report ana iancy mixtures nwu . weaver; oonu
AvhitK certified they had achieved I peaches badly winterkilled. good style tnougn noi as new as
Uoutinuad aa foiulb page.
liquor In his possession was confis-l
cated and destroyed, and he had toj
gtTe a new bond of $1,000. a
Grovas says, 'Never again.
. -
ONE YEAR'S EXPERIENCE
What Home Ruia saioona uruugnt ra ,
Town of, Pomeroy.
Pomerov. O. (Special.) After an i
experience of one year with the homei
rule nalaona in this town the Poiueroyj
Tribune-Telegraph says: E
"Just a year ago saloons came backj
to Pomeroy. The "anniversary or taats
vii iiar showo an unbroken trafu cri
crime and heartache, week by week.
the whole year through. There have?
been directly traceable to the effects
of , Pomeroy boose; Muraer, ngnis.
gambling, indecent conduct, wife beat
ing, Insanity, foul language, woe,'
rant, automobile acciaenta, unpaid
obligations, maudlin iipectaeies. and.'
Indeed. th whole catf eery or ornery
and ousted human couuuet.
