I'
NIGHT
BXTRA
icimunn
F I N A N ti I A L' EDITION
SMtger
NIGHT
EXTRA
gpL n.-HQ- sec
:c ' :
PHtDAPJSIiPlTT A , TltUBSDAY, MAY 11, 191G.
CortiianT, 1016; st inB Pcstta Lkmer ComMNt,
PRICE 6KB CENT
$0TT MEETS
IBREGON FOR
fflNALPAKLEY
II - - '
Itoashington Awaits Mex
I5L nffflp-Militia Told
ta - ,
to Make Keaay
Resident impatient
WMbn Tired of"Carranza Ob-
-atinaoy ttIuul v .-
:
w.-
From Troubled Zone
l' General Scott, United StntcB Chief
fcx; vti!,41,r of War. went into a COn-
,.0 .....---- , 'm-
"lefWee 8t 1U O ClOCK ima muriiuiK miui.
;Jwy result in ngreement nnd may rc
i iajt in ft break between Mexico nnd
"'ftf UnltCO oiuicb, Huoiiiiiuiwii
, ...U,, iUn i-nntilf. nf IVio rnn.
weeny ' " -" r --
5UMiee. at which ObrcRon is expected
M. w.nl a formal proposnl for a
, W - . 1 A i.
stout border patroi io prevent iur-
fl)tr MCMCUII uuiiu.., w.cj,..., ....
'United1 States soil.
1h chief fear was mat ine pro-
pojalwould include a demand lor tne
mthirawal of United States troops
itm Mexico nnd abandonment of the
I janitlvp expedition that was started
ftllOWUlg mo nun mm uu uutuiu-
. Washington reported the President
ml of patience with Carranza and
$a determined not' to abandon the expedi-
'i'. ..JT.M .Villa cVinnlrl ho trillnl np
'Itptared.
Unljd States cavalry from Marn-
tlon, -lext, iouowea civilian posses
tist already had crossed the border to
'tint down the raiders that, attacked
i;01i' Springs, killing 'several Amer
'(Mn soldiers and civilians and ,kid-
;;. tipping- several civilians
Secretary, or War Bakerjjns ordered
itMcntiro National Guard to hold
tjiidMn readiness for orders to duty
athtf Mexican border.
rtiotas was reported raising three
(Itlqndl'milltiaregimentsforborder
mice.
MAYOR SMITH INSPECTS CITY'S WHARVES AND DOCKS
i4U-
iiijJt,'i'iniiimi,j;iMiwml)'mtaliinwi
LiSU'ttO',?'rffi!i8TPrtitSv!r 11 Oeneral
$rem called .on Chief of Stafr General H
ltt it'lt)'clockJ today for a 'conference
Sli wnicn no was expected to submit for
BhalUrhlB. fo-operatlve border' patrol plan.
lnt; meeting Svas 'held' In Scott's private
f er (n ibt El Paso Railroad vardH. .Tiinn
ft Amador, Under Secretary of Foreign Rela
tion!, nccompaniea onregon.
:,Though General Funston declined to
torament on tho ronorted atinnrtnnmitnt nf
rjthtfxpedltlonary line beyond Colon fa Dub-
f-,u, umciaio nero Deueve ma move la Under
kyY Funatoh's order. The- Refierhl has
S.,&ddrf not-to visit the Columbus base at
; rau urne. out will go direct to San An-
iilitoifrp'ra active connection with the" Inter
R Mtlonal neKOtlatlons here.
; the proposal Involves a question
Tnlch Qenrn1 Krnii fa n..r. !... .. a-
L-efde-the punitive expedition's withdraw
ft! tfiere wan rvivalhlllt.' nf !. .!
K ntl.V K.7-C .": "". "" """? ""
le i ,r"l8.uan,ltrrea " wasninn
fc'f .for adjustment by the State Depart
f DtSDltft thA lnpr....if 4HBHn .t ....
Bw .. i e was st,1Ia Prospect of peace-
?.- mueuisiu. Ticuon, however, be-
B,.4rJr P0'1"1 and niclals believe peace
S. . n ra ,0 maintain unless a settle
wjtU speedily reached
re..tnal.5arranza blocking- adjust-
,enta-'ve'y agreed on behalf of
XflWr UQr.rnm.ntii I.. i, -j
kUitket. "' """ "tu"u con
r'r..,.,Hcf'd,n(r "nee'lngs have found the
!2J32i,'ta". on the ground with new
tt.ifJJi8.1'""1!0"8- ". one by one.
jeu
t'&'i?"'. on hls demand that a time
Vhoto by Bttitt photographer.
City officials today inspected Philadelphia's waterfront to determine how tho money authorized for tho im
provement of the port of Phi adelphfa in the loan bill to bo voted upon Tuesday might best bo spent.
"" "iT ; VtJu -..- j...v,vUUiv, "oiiiubt, anuwa, irum juii. to rignt, assistant uirecior oi tne Depart
ment of Wharves, Docks nnd Ferries, Joseph F. Haaskarl, Geprgc D. Van Sciver, Mayor Thomas B.
"smith and George E. Datesman, Director of the Department of Public Works.
MAYOR TALKS ABOUT
PORT DEVELOPMENT
ITEMS IN LOAN BELL
IJeads River Front Inspecting
Earty and? Explains Need
of New Provisions
""lEor" 'Expansion &
jneej of m6re" piers
JS,,?M,,,iron'ave. been rejected by G
,r.Ci.qtt. CBrranza. however, has sto
tun b.-;.f ; ;:t ..i ?tt"A ' . .me
12. f if? Bn? thla -30'"1 la Presented In
Rv?h-9r?V.ln the -olnt patro1 Proposal.
?WT followlne thlniTS Win hnnn-nlnr-
r when the parley began:
lifufiS,, f. T8?88' Arfxona and New
itofc7. . rrl. lnto concentration camps,
y a&?lgned to border patrol duty.
Wslfv.,1 rnsqn.a"ke(1 lhe w- Depart.
toX -r P"mlaalon to mount 2000 In.
WhS a8MSt '" uarJJn th 200
fch'n,co"tr"ted.nla "w f
Wernmost base. UP'B" a" the
&?o4r fh8 "hn ,ery nd ln'a''
Eim.rt." "" """.
IUuTS... ''Q.a.va,ry'nert of the, 8th and
iTttMBI. b.h i S.a ,he boriler of "e
ln Bprln ra,a;;
wncentratlon of the army In.north-
Cytlantd ,a p. your. r,n T,.
mTHE WEATHER
WKtU74l,l(l,,;M Industrial es.
Stht SJSlt?,y' A"' iro"t of which
attiLSS?: h" '8 parked an armv of
!aV .Trt M;KaTe ?iner buildings
"mttir Ik! nW,,,Ch couW. Possibly 89
Kj4k7 su.bnV.P,;fB,enc,?, flf theTmotorcarl
.iatn nSpJy .1 tbt workmen Inside.
y- War hli Wrl. r8' check
Ni-t-i '"""business, y'know. Btzz-i.
ET1 as Mr. BrlM ..,. a 7..'
nira"...te"r;;'.tcrv,l,
ItMth., -I'."', "nytning to do with the
j--7-- ;M;eDt that ,h i .; -
$ fiat (or aMt-om6biirng.""0 ""
Philadelphia and vicinity
r and cooler tanidht nA p-j...
ftrpte west minds.
,0T AND FOUND
5 ViM.Tnut " "" ?' t
J' auvr wrtat wateb.'WiiJ
mi a "cn s' wrL M.
& r iv"Ai,'w"yiT2
Inspection of the city's harbor facilities
today by Mayor Smith, members of his
Cabinet and business men nfforded oppor
tunity to tho JIayor to Inform tho mem
bers of the pioty Just how it Is proposed
to expend the ,'.3,300,000 provldod lnthe
new loan bills for port and harbor 'de
velopment. Declaring that the city and her Interests
aro racing an Increasing, demand for com
mercial expansion, -the M,ayor branded the
present ns tho most encouraging period In
tho history of the port.
"Our present facilities are good," he
said, "but they are being taxed, nnd that
strain will grow worse, Tou have seen
mora vessels loading and unloading than
have over been In thl3p port at any one
time before. All tho municipal piers and
all the bulkhead frontage are In use, and
If the nev pier which is now being con
structed nt McKeari street, the first of the
rMoyamenslrig group, were completed,
..... I. .. Inl.t.. ,1..-4 t .......1.1 ... .
lugio is nu uuuuk mil lb WUU1U ni unto
be leased, for It Is located in a district
of the city destined to become the great
Industrial section."
The Mnyor then noted the revlyal of
the shipbuilding' Industry, the river-front
plants "operating to capacity op orders
booked for years ahend, 'and expressed
hope that the railroads entering the city
would provide additional needed grain
elevator capacity.
"The expenditure of the 113,300,000,
which will be made available jn the two
luau units ur ilia uxpau&iiJii jiuu improve
ment of the harbor," he said, "will give
the necessary nccommpdatlons ,for busi
ness, and will be greatly appreciated by
the shippers and buyers; as It will re
lieve the burden and cost of congestion
and delay and will do much to aid the
city In maintaining Its position as one of
the leading ports pn the Atlantic seaboard,
"I cannot, or tut least I do not care to,
Imagine the deterrent effect upon the
progress of the cty If th,la money Is not
Immediately made available by the ap
proval of the pending- loan blUs, A delay
might prove, .disastrous, for much commerce-
lias, betjn created both by' the con
ditions brought about byjhe unfortunate
war abroad and by the opening of the
Panama Canal. Unless the city of Phil
adelphia takes Immediate steps to secure
this business It will pass to other competi
tive ports and will never be regained,"
The Mayor then dissected the port and
grade crossing Items of the pending loans,
and explained the bearjng upon the port
of the purchase from the Pennsylvania
Railroad of the Greenwich Point coal ter.
mlnal and the Snyder avenue pier me
now owned by, the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad. Foe these purchases the sum
of $3,300,000 Is set aside In the loan pleas
ure. .
SMOIE-BLINDED WOMEN
RESCUED FROM FLAMES
TRANSIT PLEAS
BY CITY LEADERS
AT GREAT RALLY
Ex-Director Taylor.Mayor
SffiitTi ana-Cabinet Chiefs .
All Argue for Loans
OVERFLOW MEETINGS
Transit Rallies to Hear
Mayor and Taylor Speak
TONIGHT
Logan Improvement Leagu(e,
Broad street and Windrim avenue.
Former Director Taylor and prob
ably Mayor Smith to speak. Public.
TOMORROW AFTERNOON
Business Science Club luncheon,
'St. James Hotel, 12:30 p. m. Ex
Director Taylor to speak.
HOUSE MEASURE ASKS
CONGRESS TO, SUMMON
PEACE CONFERENCE
ASK MANDAMUS
TO KEEP POLICE
OUT OF POLITICS
Writ May Be -Served
Against Mayor Smith
This Afternoon
PENROSE-McNICHOL PLAN
Phila. Republican League Also
Urges All City Employes
Bo Barred
Who 1 8 Bringing
Suit Against Mayor?
"Charley" Soger "I k'n o,w
nothing about it. The first I knew,
of it was when I read it in the'
newspapers."
Harry J. Trainer "We know
nothing about it. The Philadelphia
Republican League is not behind
it.''
George D. Porter "I know
absolutely nothing, about it. The
Citizen's Republican League is not
bringing the suit."
State Senator McNichol "The
Porter 'bunch' is behind it."
Henry J. Scott-"This is not
part of the factional fight. I am
taking the action at the request of
three citizens. One of them is
named Miller, I believe; another
Snth and the third io a Pole,
whose name I can't remember."'
County Commissioner Robert J.
Moore "Mr. Scott represents "the.
4th Ward as well as the 3d and
7th."
Resolution Provides for Convo
cation of Assembly Com
posecfof "Bellfgdfcfrits aricT" "
Latin Republics
KAISER SOUNDS WILSON
A ringing appeal to the loyal citizenry
of Philadelphia to fight for tho progress
and development of their city and to
overthrow the obstructionists, who are
seeking to throttle the municipality's ad
vancement for their own selfish interests,
was sounded this afternoon by Mayor
Smith, former Transit Director Taylor
and other prominent men, at a public
mass-meeting in Common Council Cham
ber. City Hall,
The mass meeting, held under the direc
tion of the All-Philadelphia Committee,
which went to Harrlsburg In the city's In
terests In 1913, was called to crystatize
public sentiment In favor of the $67,100,
000 transit and port loan bill, and the
$47,000,000 general Improvement loan bill
to be voted upon at the polls next Tues
day, With Common CounclJ chamber crowded
tq overflowing, arrangements were made
for simultaneous overflow meetings In
Select Council chamber and In the Finance
Committee room. I-:. J, Lafferty, chairman
WASHINGTON, May 11. A reso
Iution directing Congress to call a
j peace conference of the European bel
ligerents at The Hague, with the Re
publics of Argentina, Brazil and Chili,
as well as the United States, partici
pating, was introduced today in the
House by Representative Green, of
Iowa.
Twenty days aftcf the acceptance
of the invitation by three of the bel
ligerents the conference shall be called
to arrange peace acceptable to all, the
resolution provides. It was referred
to the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ROME, May 11. Though no in
formation is obtainable from the Vatican,-
it is generally reported in Rome
that Pope Benedict, through Mgr.
Bonzano, apostolic delegate to Wash
ington, has requested President Wil
son to initiate, a movement for peace.
It is rumored hcre'that France alone
of all the belligerents is not now in.
-clined to make peace.
The above cablegram from Rome
was transmitted through Havre and
Continued on Pae Fire, Column Three I
Continued on I'use Two, Column Tho
Carried to Safety From Second
Fqor Fire Causes ,
$500 Damage
Two' women, blinded by' smoke, wefe
carried to safety today (n a fierce Are that
burned to death a horse, a cat and a score
of chickens In a stable adjoining the build
ing at OtOO kombarl street.
The women, Mrs. Ida Leonard and Mrs.
Maggie MuJvey. were pn the second floor
3f J100 lombard street when Are brok.e
out In a atable adjoining. Fed by hay
.and straw, the flamea lapped in at the
windows, sending dense ciouas at smoife
through the bultdnjT. Mrs. Ieonard and
lira. Mulvav. wlio are about 80 years old.
Ajeroped in vain foi; the' staJrway Mounted
.ppifceovv Wri ?4 H0P& 9l th Wb,
una Fo strew PtawBi t. " vut.
FRENCH APR HERO CHALLENGES FOES'
SUPERHAWK TO WORLD TITLE DUEL
Allied Aviators Waiting
Impatiently for Combat
Between Lieutenants Na
varreand Immelman
Young Flyer Informs Ger
, man He Intends to Add
His Machine to His
Trpphies
PAHIS, May . Lieutenant Navarre,
France's 2f. year-old air hero, has drop
ped a -second manifesto behind the Ger
man lines, challenging Lieutenant Immel
man, the superhank of Germany, to an
air duel for the championship of the
world.
The German flyer, credited with bring.
Ing down 15 enemy aeroplanes, (snored
the first challenge dropped from the sky
a month ago. Navarre, who has It air
victories to his credit Informed Immelman
hia aei-ond message that he Intends to
make his aeroplane the Hth shot down.
Allied aviators an aiuius u rKi
front are awaiting with- tense Interest the
outepme of the challenge.
Navarre, a smooth-faced French youth,
haa fourht more than 50 air c'uela.
Through each'encoiwter lie wore Wrapped
about hia neck. stocking; given, fctm
by a Stench beauty for good tuck.
Navarre's methods of flgbllw? are en.
tlvely different from those 'of Lieutenant
A writ of alternative mandamus, de
manding that Mayor Smith take tho police
nnd nil other city employes out of politics,
will be filed against the city's chief execu
tive in Common Picas Court No. 1 this aft
ernoon, It was reported today.
The papers, which will be filed by "the
Penroso-atcNIchol organization through
the Philadelphia Republican League, are
being prepared "by Henry J. 'Scott nnd
Select Councilman Henry J. Trnlner nnd
Charles Seger, Penrose leaders. They will
be approved by District Attorney Samuel
P. Ilotan before they can -be filed In the
court,
George D. Porter, secretary of the Cit
izens' Republican League, denied all re
sponsibility for the action- against the
Mnyor.
"I know absolutely nothing about It," he
said. "I can tell you this, The Citizens'
Republican League is not bringing the
suit." .
The Shern law, which prohibits city
officeholders andj mpoyesa.ronv.k taking
pari in pontics, is ine pasis or ma wni.
The action today Is the result of long'
contemplation on the part of the Pen
rose forces and Is being taken In spite of
the Mayor's reiterated assertions that the
police nre, and mus tremnln, out of pql
Itlcs. Tho writ asks that the Mayor be
Instructed to "dismiss any city employe
who Is found guilty of obnoxious and per
nicious political activity."
Alleged political work done by .Police
Lieutenant John KchtermeyCr of the 2d
nnd Christian streets station, In. tho. -tth
Ward, and by Police Lieutenant ' John
Huster. of the Frnnkford station, are par
ticularly mentioned In the writ, which also
demands that all city employes be In
cluded In the order to cease political
activity.
These two police officers and their sub
ordinates have been the subject of repre
sentations made to the Mayor. County
Commissioner Robert J. Mooro- Penrose
McXichol leader of the 4 th Wnrd, com
plained that Lieutenant Echtermeyer was
actlvo in his ward in the Interests of the
Vares. The charges against Lieutenant
Huster were brought to a head by David
T. Hart, Penrose-McNIchol leader of the
L'3d Ward.
Affidavits alleging violations of the
Shern law by city employes have been on
file in the District Attorney's office for
10 days or more. Among the conferences
which are said to have led to today's ac
tion wero those between former Judge
James Gay .Gordon, .believed to have been
representing the Philadelphia Republican
League, nnd District Attorney Uotan: be
tween John C. Winston, chairman of the
QUICK NEWS
SPY SUSPECT SHOT AT PORTSMOUTH NAVY. YARD
PORTSMOUTH, N. II., May 11. A supposed spy, who leaped
Into tho river nt the nnvy yard today when discovered by n guard,
wns shot nnd sank fiom, sight. Navy men are dragging- for ltia
body. Offlclnls nt the navy yard believe that an attempt was nmdo
to dnninge the United States submarine 1,-8 or at least to obtain
infoimfUlon concerning It.
BRITISH TAKE U. S. MAIL FROM TWO SHIPS
BERLIN, via wireless to Snyvllle, May 11. British authorities
nt Kirkwall took off the steamships Helllgolnf and Chrlstiaiafjord
0111110 first-clns3 mail from the United States, said Copenhagen dis
patches today.
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-olds, selling, 4 1-2 furlongr Manokln, 112,
Tnplln, $6.00,' $4 10 and $3, won; Luetic P., DO, Anderson, $12.40 and
$0,80, second; Conowlngo, 100, Keogh, $5.7fJ, third. Time, :55 3-5.
Lobelia Buddy, Queen of thc'Sea, Golden Bantam and Chemung also ran.
SAFE BLOWN AND. ROBBED OF $10,000 IN GOLD
EANSBURG, Cnl. .May 11. Robbers' today dynnmitcd the safe
of the Illiiiysworth Supply Company here nnd, escaped with $10,000
in gold and several thousands of dollars in checks. The gold had
been brought here to pay off thclaborcrsaat the Yellow Aster miuo.
The lobbcni escaped in nn automobile.
V
r
I
NEGRO HELD FOR ALLEGED THEFT sOF PANSIES "
"Three hundred dollars ball for court" was tho judgment pronounced against
Arthur Harking, a negro, accused of stealing three pansles, today when ho
faced Magistrate Stevenson at the 30th street and Lancaster avenue station. E.
F. Owlngs, of 35 North 34th street, said that Harklns, who does odd Jobs, took
tha flowers from his garden. Owlngs saw tho pansles growing in- the front of a
house on Lancaster avenue wherp Harklns was working. He. declared they" were
his pansles because thoy were yellow in tho middle. Tho. negro smiled during
the hearing and refused to talk.' He lives at 51 Budd street.
LI YUAN HUNG PROCLAIMED PRESIDENT BY REBELS
PEKIN, May, 11. LI l'uan Hung has been proclaimed President of tha
southern provisional government fdrmed by tho Chinese rebels. A War Cabinet
has also been formed, with Tang Chl-Yao as chairman and Tsen Chuan-Hsuan as
vice chairman.
GERARD'S SECRETARY TO RETURN HOME
BERLIN, May 11. It was nnnounced todny that P. C. Grew, secretary of
the American Embassy, would soon leave Berlin for New York to attend to hl
private business, his futhcr having dlad recently.
(A cable dispatch from London last night carried a statement from the
Amsterdam correspondent of the London Dally Express quoting Berlin advices
as saying Mr. Grew would report to President Wilson on the recent conference
between Ambassador Gerard and Emperor William.)
AUTO PARTS MAKERS IN $60,000,000 COMBINATION
NEW YORK, May 11. A combination of manufacturers of automobile parts
and accessories has been agreed upon nnd the details are being worked out. A
.financial syndicate has been formed to underwrite the combination. The follow,
ing companies will form the new concern: New Departure Company, of Boston;
the Hyatt Company, of Harrison, N. J,;' the Delco Company. Michigan; the Beamy
Department, of Indiana; the Penrlman Rim Company, of Jackson, Mich. The
new combination will have n capital of $60,000,000.
LlllUT. JEAN NAVARRE
Immelman, who swoops, down upon his
prey from a great height, shooting as he
pusses, but falling in return to the attack
If the- enemy aeroplane Urnot brought down.
The French flyer dashes straight for his
enemy, -circles him. worries him with a
disconcerting flic and llvea and dips to
avoid buljete Navarre pursues. If the
enemy flees, gyrating; like ar bee over and
above: the enemy. h hisT machine gun
Continued on Pno Two, Column file
PR0TH0N0TARY QUITS
ON PROBERS' CHARGE
OF $6009 SHORTAGE
Montgomery Official Resigns at
Demand of Controller and
County Commissioner Be
fore Inquiry Ends
EXONERATES HIS AIDES
NORRlSTQWN, Pa.. (May U. Protho
notary S, B, Drake resigned today upon
demand of County Controller William D.
Heebner, supported by tfja County Com.
mlssloners. The amount 'of the moneys
"Drake received as prothonotary and failed
to account for Is between 16000 and
10,000, the controller's office said.'
His resignation follows;
To the aovernor of Pennsylvania,
the Controller of Montgomery County.
the Commissioners of the County of
Montgomery, Pennsylvania:
I hereby resign mv pfflce of Pin--
thonotary. SYLVESTER B. PRAKE.
The County Commissioners directed
that a minute be made of the resignation,
and that it be. transmitted to the Gover
nor. The principal deputy, E. C. A. Moyer,
becomes Prothonotary, and win retain the
office until the aovernor appoints Mr,
Drake's successor. v
Mr- Drake Issued a statement to the af
fect that he had sole charge of the ac
counts of the office, thus acquitting his
deputies. K. C A. Moyer and William O.
Irvin, of all .knowledge of or liability for
any condition found to' exist in the ac
counts, s
The demand for resignation was made
by tha Controller, because, after careful
consideration, he felt that tha proof .of
the Prothonotary's culpability was so clear
that It was useless to await a full report
before demandutg that he vacate he of
fice, Tha examination la nrozrpuKlnr hui ih
eiamlners aregabla to wake" viy re- j
port with jKsitWa.
5000 IRONWORKERS ON STRIKE IN NEW YORK
NEW YORK, May 11. Kive thousand Iron workers went on strike In New
York city today. The men demand higher wages, shorter hours and recognition
of their union. The strike Is expected to spread. Another firm rjnv.in to the
garment workers today and 125 strikers went back to work. Union officials as.
pect more manufacturers to comply with the workers' demands.
M
TURKISH AIRMEN SHELL PORT SAID DRYDOCK
CONSTANTINOPLE, May 11. Turkish aeroplanes successfully bombarded
Port Said, the Turkish War Office announced In tho statement Issued today, which
eays: "Two Turkish aeroplanes, on April L'5, successfully bombarded the dry.
dock and oil tanks at Port Said."
$5,646,341.86 IN CITY TREASURY
The weekly statement of City Treasurer William McCoach shows that tha
receipts amounted to $493,517.37 and the payments to $530,137.72, which, with tha
sum on hand at the close of last week, not Including the Sinking Fund account,
left a balance of $5,616,341.86 at the close of business last night.
STORM SWEEPS SULU ISLANDS: 16 DROWNED
MANILA, May 11. .-A grea storm has swept over the Sulu Islands, destroy,
ing many buildings. Four pearl-flshlng vessels were sunk and 10 persons
drowned.
COLORADO FUEL AND IRON INCREASES WAGES
DENVEB. May U, An averages increase of 10 per cent, in the wages of tho
5000 employes In the steel mills at Pueblo, Col., has been made by the Colorado
Fuel and Iron Company, as of May 1, according to an announcement of the com
pany's officials here. An Increase of the1 same amount was made In February.
BRITISH MINERS OPPOSE CONSCRIPTION
LONDON, May U. The British Miners' .Federation' today adopted rsolu.
tlons opposlr.tf tho "spirit of conscription." The miners served notice that, they
will "vigilantly scrutinize" any extension of conscription. The resolutions par
ticularly protested against the drafting of youths of 18.
FRENCH BALLOONS BLOWN 300 MILES" INTO GERMANY
BERLIN. May Jl.r-Two of the French balloons which broke from -heir
moorings in the French lines In France last Saturday landed near Hanover. ne
was manned by u crew of three soldiers, apparently office! a. who have not et
been captured. The French official report Saturday said that about 20 cantlva
balloons had broken from their moorings during a storm and that some of them
had been carried to tne uerman unes. The city of Hanover la more than SQ0
miles from the nearest vol.it on the French lines,
BRISK ARTILLERY FIRE ON MACEDONIA FRONT"
AU)NICA. Wav - "IK . rinur ' '0 the Anglo-lr - -n irnrt
1n northern 3reece was reported n dispatches receive here today. The Bul
garians are bringing up L-eeh forces south of Mouastlr and. throwing up strong
defensive position. The Bulgarian Mnwnanders .evidently expect an mttaeli from
AUled forces concentrated near Fioriiial
U
