THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
Ar INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
Pliv .ARIZONA, THURSDAY SfORNDfG, MAY 11, 1910
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 357
IT Tl INSIST
COL ROOSEVELT
BE NOMINATED
!
1
CALM ABOUT VERDUN
BUT FRENCH CAPTURE
FEW GERMAN TRENCHES
I Largest Guard
Cmp bince lne
War With Spain
CYMRIC CASE WILL
NOT CAUSE BREACH
George W. IVrkins Saya
V,.nlI Support H'puhli
can Wlio Stands fur Pro
itressive Principles and
I Is Abk to I'ut Tlm.UKh
REASONABLE FOK
SAKE OF HARMONY
LONDON. May 10. In official I
; circles hire it is not expected 1
i that the sinkinif of the White
Star liner fymric will cause a
breach between Cermany anil the
I l'nited States. .While, according
to the admiralty, the Cymric was
half Report Show Rus
sians Have Been Repulsed
In Attack On Gcnnaiis
South of Gacbnnooka,
Suffering. Heavily
Republican A. P.
Comparative calm
Leased Wire
prevails on
an ordinary freighter, on which (western front in France, notably
the
In
Says Republican Party
should Meet Present
( frisifl In Spirit of Ri oad
Patriotism That Rises
Above All Partisanship
the government was sending
freight in common with private
: shippers, the fact that no Amer
icans were on board and the
1 doubtful status of the ship, cre-
1 .".led belief that Washington is
I hardly to make an issue of the
; sinking. It Is known that Auier-
i ican officials here are making I
only the usual inquiries.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, May HI.--The prugres
sive party will not Insist upon the
nomination of Theodore Roosevelt for
president if the republicans will name
a candidate at ChicaKO "who stands
for progressive principles and is able
to put them through," according to a
statement made here tonight by
Oeorgc W. 1'erkins after a meeting of
the executive committee of the pro
gressive national committee.
"We of course, are for Colonel
Roosevelt," Mr. 1'erkins asserted, "and
shall suggest his name to the repub
licans. If they reply that they will
not agree on the colonel, we shall ask
them to name their man. who ought
to be a.- nearly unanimous a choice as
our man is. We are willing to be
reasonable for the sake of harmony."
Mr. 1'erkins' statement supplemented
one issued by the executive committee
in which it was said:
"If the republican convention is re
sponsive to the patriotic spirit that
brought the republican party into be
ing and made it dominant for half a
century it will meet this crisis In a
spirit of broad patriotism that rises
above partisanship. Should the ef
fort fail, the responsibility for the re
sult will not rest on the progressive
convention, but will rest on other
shoulders than ours.
"In this turning ; ' in world his
tory, we will not slick on details, we
will lay aside partisanship and prej
udices, hut we will never surrenders!
tne principles tor wmcn we stand and
have stood, and will follow only a
leader who we know stands for them
and is able to put them through. We
are for peace, but not for "peace at any
price.' "
It was said that the republicans and
Independent voters In general had
responded "understanding!)' to the
sentiments expressed," in the state
ment issued in January by the progres
sive national committee which, in ef
fect, was an appeal for republicans and
progressives to "get together."
It was added, hov.ever. that "there
is an element in the republican purty
leadership which seems to be giving
more thought to what that party is
against, and whom it is against, than
to what it is for and whom it is for.
Therefore, we again call attention to
our Chicago statement as to the in
evitable outcome of a failure to reach
a common understanding.
"Reports from the progressive or
ganization throughout the country
show that the American people have
become impatient Willi leaders who
hold that comfort, prosperity and ma
terial welfare are above honor, self -sac
rlfice and patriotism
num. i u uuuula
a Bk am M kssssa Mav s . -. M avak a
UK U UNI K UV
N SMI
ULIIIIIIIIl UIILLL
. i
. P. Leased Wire
Republican A
J the region of Verdun, which for w eeks
I has been the theater of the most
I sanguinary conflicts of the war. The
I French, however, have been able to
I capture portions of a Herman trench
on the west slopes of Le Molt Hom
me, and to resist successfully a Her
man attack near Hill No. L'S7, be-
Iw. . ii the Wood of Malancoutt and
La Mort Homme.
Late reports show that the llu
sums have been repulsed in an at
tack on the Germans south of Gur
liiinovka. suffering heavy casualties
Oil the Austro-ltalian front the usual
i bombardments and isolated infantry
it tacks still are in progress.
Constantinople announces victories
I for the Turks against the Russians
in northern Asia-Minor and northwest
of Mush, and the defeat of the Rus
sians with heavy losses and the cap
ture of some prisoners near Mount
Bathli.
The recent attack bv the Turkish
cruiser Breslau against Russian Black
Sea ports is said by Constantinople
to have been made as a reprisal
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas.. Mar 10.--
Preparations for the establishment ot
e of tin largest national guard
camps maintained in the United Slates
since the Spanish-American war. were
completed today by army officers at
Fort Sam Houston. Troops of the
Texas National guard got under way
from many points tonight and the'
first of the organizations will begin
arriving in the morning.
An fast as companies reach Sail
Alttoate tiny will be sent to the man
euver field where the mobilization
camp has hi en laid out.
A separate camp has been laid out
lot tl;e eleven companies of coast ar
lillery ordered from Gulg and Atlan
tic seabcaru points.
Headquarters announced 'oniglit
that the first one of the coast artil
lery companies to arrive will be moved
on to Marathon to strengthen the base
at Houlllus. Others will be held in
the camp for subsequent stationing
along the border.
ASK IRISH TO
FORTY VILLA BANDITS CROSS
LINE BUT MOLEST NOTHING
WIN
-
urainst the Russian fleet, "which
WASHINGTON. May 10 Germany. ' bombards onen towns and villages on
in a note received by the state de- j y,e Anatolian coast."
partment today by cable from Am- i The bombardment hy the Teuton:,:
hassador Gerard, admits that a Ger-'alieH of ,M)int.s on the Dortan-Giev-man
submarine torpedoed the channel gv BPctor of the Macedonian front
steamer Sussex, in violation of aa- j continues, according to unofficial ad
surances given the I'r.ited States, re- vices. The Germans, these reports
gret for the Incident, announces that ; nay after having thrown numerous
pe submarine commander has been j shells Into the tow n of Mayada, oc
"approprlately punished" and declares 1 copied the place, but were compelled
readiness to pay wi adequate lndm-jt evacuate under a French counter
nlty to Americans injured on thelattack. Numerous 17-inch guns are
vessel. I being placed along this front by the
It was indicated at the state depart- I Germans,
ment that the Herman' statement that A royal commission has been ap
the offending commander had beer. pointed to investigate the Irish re
punished would be accepted and the belllon. which now seemingly has
Sussex case considered closed except been entirely put down. I"remier As
!or arranging for the payment of in-'quith has informed the house of
demrity foi the several citizens of commons that there seems to be no
the Cti;ted States who were hurt, j necessity for further extreme meas-
ssL. .h.hl. will i,.. no attemnt to 1 'ires against the rebels. Debate on
r.ii.te f..r Ihese indemnities or for i the Irish situation has been post
final settlement of the I.usitania and
ft'.w i.'ises however, until suf
ficient time has elapsed to indicate ; executions ot lea.iers in
v. i... AmD,i.... t. n re- 'Win ease place, i.an.n
ceived in Berlin and whether the new
Fiibmirine pol.cy is being lived up to.
Results o," an investigation based on
facts supplied by the American govern
ment, the German communication says
hHs shown that the contention origin
ally ret up that the explosion of the
Sussex was to be traced to a cause
..-1 .. f'.., . 1 . . , - :if-
Oll.oi H 11 " " - uollCV
lack, ri.nnot be maintained. While w
asserting that the submarine com
puned in the house of commons until
Thursday, iionding whirh no further
the revolt
Wimborne,
lord lieutenant of Ireland, has re
signed.
As the only way in which their as
plrallnns for self government possibly
can he realized the Irish parliament -
ary party, in a manifesto, has celled
upon the people of Ireland to sup
port the constitutional movement and
oppose the "insane course of Irish
I (jertnany. In a note to the I niled
I Ul.ln. tw, .. " ' ' ' ' .1,,,.
, , . .. , . . i.-.a., ii.i.-i nil iiii 1 1 tu 111.11 .1 w tlll.iu
mander thought he was dealing th Uul)m!trlnp
"n enerov war snip, foreign .Mimsiei . . M . .
u eiieioy wmm " :steamer Sussex. The submarine com
von ...!. ' , mander is declared not to hav.
judgment too nurrieuiy aim umsksi
acted
and it
appropri-
r! r,e to i nut met Inn
did not act fully in accordance wtthstaU,d h(
tne strict insirocwon w ""-"lately punished."
Lpon him to exercise particular care.
Officials of the state deparlment R0Mian Are Active
noted particularly the iiassage of the j pkTROORAD May 10 (Via Ion
note which said "in view of these clr- I dn )The IWxil,h reverse at Kut
cumstaiices te German government j K,. Amarn instead of causing th
frcnklv admits tnai .ne assurance. . RSHtHn, to abandon or . hange their
given the American government in ai , plaI1H f,,r invadinc Mesopotamia. BP
otdance with passenger vessels were , p(.arH ratu.r ,,, have inspired them
to I attacked without warning, has
. . 1 .. . i' ... ...,1 I.. in f I... i.T-..uet.T
that we need aJ"1 7 . '
lease. inis was rcgarueu as iiiui-
with a fresh incentive for reaching
one- of the principal objective's
their Caucasian campaign.
Since General Townshend's capltu
lation the Russian forces have nti
conspicuous progress along the el if f i
the hiirhest order and most couraeeous ''hips otner in:' n passenger liners prior cult roads of the I'ersian mountains
character leadershu. that will draft to the catc of the last American note ; and to have driven the Turks from
r .-i i : ken i nir of our elder Amerienniam
of our belief in those thlmrs that nnr I eating a purpose on Germany's part to
country and our flag stand for: that
ir neiple are seeking a leadership of
decline to iay indemnities for Ameri
cans kilied or injured in attacks on
to Itself for the country's benefit 'he
unselfish and patriotic service of-our
aides citizens. Our people are demand
ing that principles and policies shall be
proclaimed and carried out by a man
who has the wisdom to formulate them
and the man to uphold them"
Complete delegations from all states
will attend the progressive national
convention it was announced. The to
tal number of delegates will be up
wards or 1,000.
After the forenoon session of the
committee, George W. 1'erkins en
tertained the members at luncheon.
Colonel Roosevelt was present and sat
at the head ejf the table. Others at
tending were: Walter f. Brown of
Ohio; Herbert Knox Smith, of Con
necticut; Mathew Hale, of Massachu-
in which the German goverment prom- another selre I of positions far to th
ised that freight as well as passenger i west ward and close to their own
vessels would not Ik attacked without ' frontier.
warning or without provision for the j The main threat upon Mesopotamia
(Continued on I 'age Two) (t'ontiniied on I'age j-woi
LOTS OF IT FOB
ffi
Col. Harris Aided By Staff
Offj -crs Is Laboring With
Migkl and Main In An At
tempt to Get Regimenl Tn
Shape for Pi eld
TROOPS LEAVE
HERE TOMORROW
OOVFRNMFNT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.o.NlxiX, May in The Irish par-
liam. 'Harv pam has issued a mani
fest to the people of Ireland, calling
-pon MmM to support the constitution
al mr vement as the onlv one bv which
their aspirations for self government
Mjssibly can be realized.
Viother tragedy," says the mani
festo, "has been added to the long tale
of tragedies of Irish history. The
apital of iredand has lieen the scene
ef a man and unsuci essf ul attempt at
revolution. Blooel has been shed free-
y. It is true, that Ireland has been
bi'.terly provoKed by the growth of a
similar revolution and illegal move-
men in another part of Ireland, back
et1 by -.n armv in revolt. It is true
th.it the grave responsibility for these
ve nts in Durlta rests upon the lead
rs of that movomenL These things
will have te be d'soused at the propel
time.
It is true that Ireland has lieen
Shocked and horrified bv a :.eries of
military execsytions by the military
tribunals in Dublin These thing.,
have been done in the face of incessant
rd vehement protests of the Irish
aihrs these protests will be pressei
nntfauafiy and strongly until the un
checked control of the military au
th-.rities in Ireland is abolished. But it
1:: also true that, in spite of bitter
provocations the pt-ople eif Ireland
havi had no hesitation in condemn
ing the rising in Dublin as a danger
ous blow ..t the heart and hopes of
Ireland.
'on the m..rrow of Ibis tragedy 'we
feel called upon to make a solemn ai
Jieal to the people of Ireland to draw
the conclusion which these events
force upem them. We must leave
misunderstanding in their minds as to
our convictions and our resolves
i;iihei Ireland is to bo given over to
unsuccessful revolution and anarchy or
the ((institutional movement Is to have
the full St.pl ort of the Irish people
and go on until It has completed its
work."
Mesa Plans a Roost Meeting
to (let Recruits for Regi
ment, and to Organize 'a
Reserve Battalion, Rant:
( loing ( )ver
: STUDENT OFFICERS ARE
TO BE GRADUATED
! 1
LEAVENWORTH. Kas.. May 10.. I
An order to graduate the student i
I officer of the four army service
I Schools at Kort I.ejavenworth was
l.c ived at the fort tonight. Of-
I ficers whose regiments are on the
M eric: :ii border were ordered to
i join their commands at once.
; Other student officers whose regi- j
ments are overseas will go to the
j harder for special assignment.
i One hundred officers are affected
! by the order. '
STIil AWHIT
OUTCOME OF
Ride I'p and Down River
for Several Miles, Later
Crossing to Mexiean Side
Without Doing Any Ap
parent Damage
INFANTRY IS
SENT TO
SCENE
Negotiations Over American
Troop Disposition In
Mexico Makes Little Pro
gress In Scott-Obregon
'(inference At El Paso
BORDER CONFAB
Adjutant General Harris, in spite of
the fact that his regiment was mobil
izing throughout tht state and getting of lnt" K1 paso conference between
(aenublica" A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 10. Further
developments In the Mexican situation
still awaited tonight a definite outcome
EDITOR HOLM AN
ready for Federal service, sent all of
yi sterday sitting tight at his desk.
rnrncrseu up to his ears In work.
"This military life is a gay one." he
said, ."but in spite of that I have used
up two bottles of ink, worn out three
pens, and have not left my des'.. sinco
arly morning'
The whole routine business of the
guard hus fallen upon the colonel's
hotiklers. The business of the guard
ins; go along as before, and with th
Slldlrlonsl details imiHised by U. S
restrictions, it makes a large job.
fh- bills of the guard all over the
state must be paid, and to this end.
Harris has signed hundreds of checks.
No additional word lias be-en re
ceived from the war department, und
all that the guard can do is to hasten
to comply with the first orders, ge.
things ready as soon as possible, and
?o to Douglas as fast as trains will
DEAD
CONFEREES ON ARMY BILL
ARE NEARINC AGREEMENT
(Continued on Page Two)
on the army re-or;anization
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . ar. all day session today, failed to
WASHINGTON, May 10. Conferees reach a final agreement on disputed
bill in ' phases or sue metisure, oui wui cn-
ate and house memoers said lonigiu
there was a general feeling they would
get together after several more days
tit discussion.
All were agreed that it was uselei s
lo talk further for a standing army of
50,000 men or to plead any longer for
tlx senates proposed federal volun
teer reserve army. Much of the day
was Spent in discussing the probable
agreement on the regular army and the
;;eni ral understanding seemed to be
that the pence strength would be fix
ed at approximately 1X0,000 men.
i ' ' - -i i 'i, , ... .... ,. . . i.r in vn nn'eers re-
nines suuin 01 onn r.u..Mo, uo.u-... -ot mmm wine j hfrV(. U.,1(J ar(. reluctantly yielding to
i ii h iii mo fuory una uy imeu am - mwijiiii m un-in.
Thirty or Mor.e May be Dead
From Sinking of Steamer
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i in his pockets. Is believed to be Man
SAN I.UIB OfUSI'O, Gal , May 10. uel Lopez, said that the steamer was
The steamer Roanoke, which left San I overloaded and sank during a he'ivy
Francisco at midnight May X for Val-j gale. He said that four bouts, each
paralso, foundered at sea about 10ft containing eight men, were 'uunched
vivors. who, in a life boat, with the The three survivors were taken to
dead bodies of five other shipmates, a hospital here.
drifted ashore here today. According to 1 opez, the founder -
The Survivors, weak and partly de- ing of th" Tioanoke was caused bv a
llrlous. "ere unable to give their shifting of her cargo,
names or unv information of the rest Captain Dicuson and his wife, the
of the crew beyond the fact that four only woman aboard, were drowned,
other boats had been launched when according to Lopez's story. He said
the steamer sank. that Mrs. Dickson fell overboard
At first it was believed that all when the steamer began to capsize,
hands were dead, but under the min- an1 that Captain Dickson plunged
Istrations of the rccuers thre-? after her. Neither was seen again by
:howed signs of lite, and later one those In Lopez's boat,
of them revi.cd sufficiently to say It Is believed that if the four other
where they were from. boats ate not picked up speedily
This man who, from papers found their occupants will perish.
its rejection by the house are urg
ing perfection of the training camps
provision of the house bill, and hope
it may be amended along the lines
proposed in an amendment offered in
the senate by Senator Lodge. This
would provide for pay at the samo
rate now received by enlisted men of
the regular army for citizens who en
list In instruction camps during the
periods they are in training. With
tueH a provision, it is argued, ytmng
men who .'ouhl not otherwise afford
to devote a month or more each year
would be given an opportunity 'o at
tend the instructions camps.
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, May Hi J. Winchester
Hotmail, publisher of the Mining
World, died today at his home here.
II" had been ill for several weeks
with heart disease. Air. llolman was
prominent in mining circles, and th"
trade iournal field.
T
ON WAY TO DOUGLAS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SKATTLK, Wash., May 1ft. The
cond nattalion, mactune gun com
pany and land of the Fourteenth
i mted States infantry regiment,
''olonel Richard H. Wilson command
log. departed for Douglas, Ariz., via
Denver late tonight on a special
train of two FMttwia.
Some Sensations
Are Provided In
Day By h eland
Republican A. P. Leastd Wire
LONDON, May 1ft. Ireland provid
ed a number of sensations today
The first was the announcement of
tie- resignation of Baron Wimborne
lord lieutenant whica undoubtedly
lias been in Premier ASQ tilth's hands
for some time, acceptance being di
tared until normal - conditions are
restored in Ireland.
The second was the appointment
of a commission, beaded by l ord
Hard Inge, to investigate the causes
of the Irish outbreak. A third was
the admission by the government of
the truth of the report that 1".
Sheeny Skeffington, editor of the
Irish Citizen, and two other Journal
ists had been executed in the I'orto
Hello barracks in Dublin without the
knowledge of the military authori
ties and before martial law was
actually In operation.
carry them.
Before the guard can move, the im
mense amount of stored material in
the armory must be packed and made
f.ady for shipment. There are several
iar I., ids ot this and it will take all of
todav to finish its packing.
The goard according to present planr
will leave here in I'd cars tomorrow
morning, going to Douglas, where
regular army officers are busy lay
ing out a camp for the regiment.
One of tike busiest memtiers of the
guard yesterday was Capt. A. c. Taylor
regimental commissary. He was at
the Adjutant eieneral's office most of
Us! day, and lo a casual obsei ver. he
seemed to tie prying in among the pri
vate papers on n still hunt for some
thing new. What he was really do
ing was ge'.ting a complete collection
of all Hie numerous and varied office
applies which his department needs.
Kvervthing from pins, pens, pencils up
to carlsm paer and stamps were in
cluded in his equipment.
Downtown recruiting stations have
been opened by the regiment, with a
iion-eoinmisioneii officer in charge.
Hulistnients have been coming in fasi,
but there is still plenty of room for all
vho wish lo Join.
Lieut. Claude Shamhart, will remain
hind the regiment and be in charge
of Hie recruiting of the l.umi men need
ed to bring the organizations to war
strength. As fast as the men are
brewgtit in, they will be sent to join
the regiment at Douglas. He went to
c.lendale last n;ght and signed up
some recruits.
Many telegrams were received yes
terday by Col. Harris from individuals
uid organizations offering their ser -i
ices to the regiment. lie had wires
from llaydcn, Jerome, Clarkdale, BIs-
Generals Scott, Funston and Obre-
gon. Officials of both the war and
state departments appeared confident
that an agreement satisfactory to both
sides would be negotiated although
they hesitated to predict how much
more time might be required.
F.liseo Arrendondo. Mexican ambas
sador-designate, called on Counsellor
l'olk at the state department late in'
the day. Hoth he and Mr. folk said
the visit had no significance and was
merely a general discussion of the sit
uation. Mr. Arredondo had no addi
tional advices from his government to
present and Mr. Polk could give him
no news as to the conference at El
Paso.
Secretary Huker received a report
from Oeneral Scott on the long dis
cussion with Oeneral Obregon last
night. It stated thai while the Meal-
can war minister had talked over a
suggestion for co-operative border pa
trol, the proposition was not presented
formally as a sub for the protocol
worked out previously. General Scott
did not transmit deltails of the new
discussion but indicated that he ex
pected General Obregon to submit his
new plan later.
Officials here thought it unlikely
President Wilson would accept any
agreement which looked forward to
the withdrawal from 'Mexico of the
American troops, even with promises
that a complete patrol of the Mexican
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Texas, May 10.
Approximately forty bandits
crossed to the American side of
the Rio Grande above Eagle Pass
today and rode up and down the
river for several miles, later
crossing to the Mexican side
without doing any apparent dam
age, according to a report here. A
detachment of the Nineteenth in
fantry was sent to the scene ac
cording to informationy received
here tonight. Major Langhorne
and his command are well over
the river into Mexico. At noon
today Major Langhorne had
reached Boquillas on the Ameri
can side where he halted for a
short rest before continuing his
ride.
Colonel Sibley who left here this
morning for Boquillas to command
the expedition refused to say
whether or not Major Langhorne
had Instructions to go across the
line.
Y. M. Vasquez. Mexican consul
at Del Rio, Texas, who went to
Boquillas at the instance of his
government to investigate the raid
returned tonight. He says that
he has established beyond doubt
that the Boquillas raiders were
Villistas. Vasquez said that the
three bandits captured and turned
over to United States army offi
cials wore mourning bands for
Villa, whom they believe to be
dead, and that the prisoners ad
mitted that they were formerly a
part of a detachment belonging to
Canuto Reyes command in tne La
guna district near Torreon.
Lorenzo Coy and Frank Rowan,
employes of the International
Mining company at Boquillas, and
J. W. Walker, an automobile man,
reported here tonight from the
border.
Make Little Progress
KL PASO, Texas. May 10. Necoti-
side would be established by the de UOIm over American troop disposi
facto government. There was'nothing "ons in Mexico made no progress to-
to indi'.'ate that the president was in- "ay.
dined to change Lis decision that Gen- General Obregon awaited word from
eral Pershing's forces will remain in General Carranza as to the course he
Mexico until the de facto government 's now to pursue and when instruc
has demonstrated bwyond question its Hons did not come, a conference which
ability to control the situation there, had been proposed for this morning
No official has lieen willing to discuss was set back until tomorrow.
Just what such a demonstration must Failing in their efforts to have a de
be; but it is certain that a mere aB- finite date of withdrawal set, it was
sertion by General Carranza or Gen- reported tonight that the Mexican
eral Obregon will not be sufficient government may next try to have part
The course of General Obregon at of the American troops taken out at
D Paso has been pui:z::ng. Adminis- once, leaving the remainder to co
tration officials have had reason to, operate with the forces of the defacto
believe that General Carranza has government in the pursuit of the VII
given his assent to the agreement as 1 ita groups.
originally name. except in minor de- The report which conlrt not h
tails. The plan was suggested in part
at least by General Obregon himself
when the conferees first met; yet Obre
gon has refused thus far to exchange
ratifications with General Scott.
In some quarters, it was thought the
Mexican war minister might be seek
ing political benefit from the. tactics
he has adopted. There is no official
Information tending to support this
view, although intimations of friction
between Carranza and his war minis
ter have been published frequently
firmed, had it that the Mexicans be
lieve the size of General Pershing's
army is out of all proportions to its
mission the extermination of a few
hundred bandits and that ,a much
smaller force would answer the pur
pose. A partial withdrawal, it is ar
gued, would have a good political in
fluence in Mexico.
If this plan were rrected, it was in
dicated tonight, the Mexicans were
likely to decide further attempts to
It is not believed here that political al,er ,he rosition he United States
(Continued on Page Three)
manipulation of this sort, if it does ex
(Continued on Tage Three)
TUCSON COMPANIES LIKELY TO
BE FIRST IN LIS C1P
llepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz. May 10. While the I
utmost secrecy surrounds the move
ment of the companies composing the
First Arizona infantry from their
home stations into the mobilization
camp here, it is reported in military
circles that at least two companies,
those fn.ni Tucson, will be here by to
morrow morning.
The site for the camp of the militia
mem as well as the two battalions of
the l-ouvteenth infantry also ordered
here, was arranged tor by the Douglas
Chamber of Commerce and Mines to
day It consists of liiii acres of open
land near the camp occupied by the
other military organizations now sta
tiomd here and has ail ample water
supply.
An air of tense expectancy permeat
ed military circles today and it was
evident that every precautionary mea
sure possible is being taken. This is
tnie of the regulars, no more than of
Company1 G, Arizona National guard,
the local organization.
Since the members of the company
gathered at the armory yesterday they
useless ana it was believed they would
then agree to the proposals of the
American government.
In an authoritative quarter tonight
the belief was expressed that tomor-
: row's meeting would be the last of the
conferences and that General Obregon
j would endorse the tentative agree
ment with perhaps a few minor
changes.
Asked whether tomorrow's meeting
would be final, General Obregon said:
"I don't know- there ,. k i
.. , - - - 1 ,S I ' I 1 1 . I
meetings."
In the absence of new proposals, the
They are ready for situation as it now stands is as fol
sleeping with their lows:
I Generals Scott and Funston are un
alterably opposed to any change in t .
tentative agreement which sets a date
for American withdrawal from Mexico.
However, the American confere. s
any street gatherings or Quarrels, par- are patiently listening to all proposals
iiquiart) between Americans and ! the Mexican minister of war may make
Mexaans. In this they succeeded ad-' while waiting for him to realize that
mlrably, however (Continued on PaioTwaT
Hires Mexican Freighters
To Carry Troop Supplies
pave not hft it.
any emergency.
arms hear at hand.
Racial excitement was more pro
tn'ineed here today than for a long
time past and the civil officers were
rarti.'ularly vigilant in preventing
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Texas., Mav 10. Be-
Purchase of fire brick for bread
ovens for the expeditionary forces
enuse the garrison here has only eight ! were made today by Captain Chambers
men, Captain chambers, quartermast- ! Work of erection will go forward a,
sr, was compelled to engage Mexican once.
freighters today to forward forage to
Colonel Sibley's command now near
the Mexican border, at Boquillas.
Nine auto trucks for use between
hc.-e and Boquillas are expected Saturday,
I
t:
l
