Oregon Historical Society
t0,"l' 207 Second St
A QF1I A TVTin
"Ashland Grows While Lilhia Flows'
City of Sunshine and Flowers
HD1NGS
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 191 G
NUMBER 101
Some Exceedingly
Dirty Politics
Candidates for sheriff against
"Curly" Wilson have at last come to
tho "dirty polities" stage. Who other
than they would be interested in in
spiring the charge that Mr. Wilson
was partisan in the Martin trial? The
sheriff's office force, in the Martin
case, as In every other case, simply
performed its duty and on the wit
ness stand told the truth as they taw
it. Ashland peoplpe generally be
lieved Martin guilty of murder and
expected that he would be convicted.
If Martin was justified in the act of
killing Hubbard no good citizen would
desire that he Buffer for the act. On
the other hand, if Martin feloniously
and wilfully murdered Hubbard, no
good citizen should desire his acquit
tal. That he was acquitted was no
fault of the sheriff's office. It was
the duty of that office to apprehend
Martin and hold him to account to
the court for h!s act, and when called
upon to testify to' state the facts
which were found in connection with
the killing. That the sheriff's office
did.
If Martin was cleared ' when he
should have been convicted, the blame
should be laid exactly where It be
longs, at the door of the district at
torney b office. It was his. duty to
find and present the facts, and if the
case went awry it did so because of
Kelly's laxity. It will be remembered
that Putnam complained bitterly at
the time on account of Martin's ac
quittal and charged the fault to the
court, to the sheriff's office and to
everything and everybody, except his
protege, Kelly, who wag more largely
responsible for the failure to convict
than all other agencies combined.
The letter of B. C. Hubbard, pub
lished in the Record, is there for the
purpose of discrediting Wilson's can
didacy. Some of the candidates op
posed to him no doubt Inspired the
communication. Putnam, having first
made the unfounded charge agalnBt
the sheriff and being secretly support
ing Grjeves for the nomination, leaves
it to appear that Grieves directly In
spired Mr. Hubbard, by working' on
his prejudice, to come forth with the
story with Intent to damage Wileon
In the interest of Grieve. That Is un-
aernanded, dirty politics, and if
Grieves had a hand in It he deserves
defeat for the republican nomination
for sheriff.
Officials should not be censured for
performing their plain duty. That is
what Sheriff Singler and "Curly"
Wilson did in the Martin case.
JS535$$5$3$3$$
J
4 COMMERCIAL CIA'R MEETS S
MONDAY. $
S An adjourned meeting of the
S Commercial Cluh will be held S
? Monday evening, at which the J
3 committee appointed to consider J
reorganization plans will have a S
full report and recommendations Q
3 will be made upon which the S
'v club will take action. A definite 4
$ accomplishment Is assured for
$ this meeting, and it is of utmost 5
importance that every member ?
v should attend. J
Directress For
Park Playground
Buys Ashland
Cigar Factory
J. M. Alnutt has purchased the
cigar factory which Is now located in
Roundup Program
Is Announced
beautiful interior, and those who
have not have a cordial standing in-
The juvenile committed of the Civic vitation from the owners and nronrle-
Improvemcnt Club, consisting of Mes-j tor to drop In and se for themselves
New Oregon Given Brilliant
Dedication At Opening Banquet
The "New" Hotel Oregon was given .the gen oral passenger agent expressed
a royal dedication Tuesday even'ng deepest regrets at being unable to at
when a brilliant throng of 150 people j tend tho gathering because or an In
gathcred at tho hotel to placo their j terstato Coiumcrco hearing, and sent
stamp of approval upon Ashland's hoth his and Mrs. Scott's best wishes,
new hostelry and celebrate the con-1 A congratulatory telegram from E O
summation of one of Ashland's great- ; McConuick. vice nresident of the t0 boost the sale of the product ' carload of cowboys, cowplrls and In
est desires, that of securing a hotel ; Southern Pacific, was read. j throughout th's territory, northern J dlans. Resides the Pendleton aggre-
to which every citizen jould point j If. a. Hinsliaw, general freht California and Oregon, j Ration, which represents the cream
with pride. We call It the "New" j agent of the Southern Pacific, con-' Tho fi"'tor-v ,low employs three men or the wild west performers of tho
Hotel Oregon because had even tho grati'.lated those concerned immedi-' nn1 l"'01'1"''15 several brands of cigars world, a r arload of horses, both run
builders who erected the original , ately and the c'ty at larc;e upon the i wlli'h aro of more ttlan 1"cal famo 08 ' ni,l! nols,-a an,l huckers, are coming
structure visited it Tuesday night j oecurin'; of a first-class hotel, out- "K00(' smokes." Tho La Valencia, bit 1 from Klamath Kails and a score of
they would never have recognized It. j lined so-iie 0r t,e ,omla wi,i(,n' dear, made in this factory is liecom-, Klamath county riders will be over to
To describe the new hostelry Is un- j the lad-rests of the railroad and of I wi(,0,v known and smoked all up compete. The prizes hung up are at
nece.'sary. Most of the residents of , Ash'aml. and closed with the state- 'nml (,own 1,10 conKt- Tll I-lthla. J trading attention from all over tho
Ashland and vicinity have seen its ment that "Ash'and with her advan-! Tis t an'' T'a An,prira"a, all five-cent ! est and the roundup here promises!
The roundup feature of tha
Springs Dod -cation celebration of
10. R. (irieve's tobacco establishment, j July 4, 5 and 6, and ihe biggest sin
from Mr. Grieve, and will move to ! gle feature cr the celebration, is now
qunrters In tho Ashland Hotel block, ' assured. Contracts have been signed
enlarge the producing capacity of the' for three carloads of bucking horses,
im.iuij uu nuiii a muni! ca m paign u;i s. nr., irom renuirton and a
dames PerozzI, Chanttin and Briscoe
is corresponding with several appli
cants for the position of directress
for the Lithla Park children's play
ground. The committee is co-operating
with the springs commission and
has the backing of the Civic club In
their efforts to secure a directress to
supervise the children's play. The
directress will assume her duties on
June 1 and be at the playground all
day and every day throughout the
summer.
This will be a most worthy feature
of the park attractions. Mothers may
leave their children at the playground
with confidence that they will be tak
en care of and the play of the chil
dren will be made interesting and
free from danger at all times.
The candy sale which will be held
during the pageant in the park Satur
day afternoon will be for the benefit
of this project, the money realized to
go toward the fund to finance the
keeping of the directress. Everyone
Is urged to bring along a few cents to
buy candy, and all who wish to help
the project will be lending material
aid by making some candy and turn
ing it over to those in charge of the
sale. .
the wonderful transformat'on which
has been wrought. The crowd which
attended Tuesday evening's affair
wandered from top to bottom of the
structure and constantly found new
beauties to call for exclamations of
pleasure. The Hotel Oregon now
ranks as a first-class hotel and one
to which anyone can be proud to di
rect the visitor. One thing we must
mention, and that Is the ladies' draw-
.ng room. Every lady who attended
W. II. .lenlilna, assistant general
pnsseiMT agent for the Southern Pa
cific, f'ii owed with a f'ne talk. He
told th" Htory of the lark which .11.1
tajrec or.ght to become one of thoj,!'Knr8, are of tnfi r,I1Pi,t Quality and to equal tho Pendleton exhibition,
Kisatrt health resorts In the west." i huve b""t ",) a fille reputation for the greatest in tho west.
themselves. The Hutler Walker place east of
Mr. Alnutt has been engaged in tho I Ashland has been leased and will bo
cigar manufacturing business for the scene of tho great roundup. Con
years and is a most popular "live ! struction will commence in tho near
future on grandstands which will ac
commodate from 7,.ri0n (0 10,000 peo
ple. Every pnrt of the roundup is
go'ng to be handled upon an immouso
scale and a wild west performance
extending over the three days of tho
celebration and every feature of
which will furnlr.h the wildest excit
ing series of entertainments ever
Council Ties on
Fourth Fund Vote
The city council met In adjourned
session last Thursday evening and
spent three and a half hours of heated
discussion over the request of the
Springs Dedication celebration com
mittee for a $500 appropriation from
the cltv funds for tho
win Run special tlon
r The council lined up with Ninlnger,
Trains To Ashland iz
- - , uu -uov.iutb, ituut 0 11 1
Banta opposed. The discussion at
times grew heated and personal. Ad
journment was taken with the matter
undecided, the mayor taking advan
tage of his perogative to withhold his
deciding vote until the next regular
meeting.
The opposition was based on the
contention that their was not enough
money in the publicity fund to cover
the $500 asked and that it was not
legal to transfer the amount from
other funds. Tho councilmen in
favor of the donation held as their
belief that the majority of the people
favored giving this sum toward the
amount which is being made up by
subscription from the merchants and
seek a legal way of making the appropriation.
The Springs Dedication Celebration
comlmttee met with W. H. Jenkins,
assistant general passenger agent for
the Southern Pacific, last night, and
were assured by him that the railroad
would run special trains with fare and
a third round-trip rates from every
point from which Ashland will draw.
A special train will come from'Klam-
ath Falls and others from northern
Oregon. He also says the Southern
Pacific will advertise the celebration
from Portland to San Francisco and
expressed hi3 belief that an Immense
crowd of people will be drawn here.
The company will probably make ar
rangements to. park cars in the local
yards for the accommodation of those
who are unable to secure accommoda
tions in the city.
Band Makes Hit
In First Concert
Despite a chilly breeze which made
overcoats most desirable, a crowd of
over a thousand people gathered in
the park last evening to hear the,Ash
land band in its first concert of the
season. And everyone felt amply re
paid for their walk. The Ashland
hand rendered a smooth and polished
concert which would make many a
professional band hold fast to its
laurels. Every number was played
with a precision and expression which
could only be attained by months of
hard practice. Over fifty automobiles
lined the drive above the bandstand
and hundreds of people thronged the
fountain plaza, giving an Indication
of the thousands who will attend the
concerts this summer when the
weather Is a little more suitable 'and
the concerts more widely advertised.
T. H. Crawford of La Grande, Ore.,
was a visitor In" the city Monday.'
Club Will Collect
Carload of Rags
A carload of rags. Seems like
quite a contract, but the Civic Im
provement club has inaugurated a
campaign to collect all of the rags
which their members and friends can
dig up from the garret, the store
house and the ragbag and hope to
be able to gather a carload and real
ize a considerable sum from them.
Every member and friend of the club
is urged to save the rags. The club
ladies will Bond a committee to col
lect them. The rags are worth prac
tically nothing to each individual, but
when the aggregate saving of a com
munlty Is brought together a huge
amount will be the result and the
returns realized upon them will' count
up. Paper scrapB and old rubber,
tires and the like, should also be
saved, as later the club may decide
to collect these. '
luescay evenings event gave vent to accomplishments Itself rather than
"ahs" and "ohs" of pure amazement passively wait for outside capital to
when they entered that room with its some and recognize tho advantages
harmony of fittings, tints and refine- here. He proclaimed an interest in
ments. The men found enjoyment Ashland bnth tnr himooU ..-j .
... .w. liMIIDCII 1IU lUli
everywhere in the building, but the Scott which is more than the official
women, no matter how pleased with Interest of the company but is a close
the rest of the hotel, were irresistibly personal Interest in the "most beautl-
drawn back to the quiet restfulness ful little city on the coast." He paid
of the drawing room. high compliments to the spirit which
At 8 o'clock the guests were ush- was bringing Ashland to the front on
ered into tho dining room to the the coast, and became almost poetic
strains of music from Loveland's or- in his remarks concerning the beau-
chestra and were seated at tab'es ties and advantages which nature has
made beautiful with great masses of given Ashland. "The park is a thing
flowers. The dining room, lobby and of beauty, the views from the drives
drawing room were perfect bowers of urirlvaled anywhere, and one who has
spring blossoms, which added to their once drank of the water will always
natural attractiveness. corqp bck." He closed with a few
At each plate the guests found a remHis concerning the growing fame
rose and a booklet menu with the or Asn'ond and an appeql, "Let us
names of the guests, reception com- worlt together to make this not the
mittee, etc. The reception commit- 'Carlsbad of America' but 'The Ash
tee consisted of Messrs. F. F. Whit. lan(1 of the World.' "
He, W. E. Ncwcombe, Clark Bush, J. Chairman Heed of the committee
H. McGee, D. D. Norris, Mesdameg C. from the Commercial Club which was
H. Vaupel, E. D. Briggs, F. G. Swed- Instrumental In securing the bonus
enburg, D. PerozzI, George Owen, D. for the hotel won his audience imme-
O. Norris. diatcly with a witty talk In which he
President V. O. N. Smith acted as told of some of the trials and tribtila
toastmaster and handled the program Hons which the committee had met,
of the evening in a most pleasing eave all the credit to his fellow
manner. After an orchestral selec- workers, Messrs. J. W. McCoy and
tlon Mrs. Sylvan Provost sang a beau- v- - N- Smith, paid a high compli
tiful solo, following which a banquet ment to the spirit of co-operation
which will be long remembered by which had made the new hotel possl
the guests was served. The orches- 0,e an made a plea for continuation
tra furntehed music throughout the of this spirit which, when applied, will
Danquet and Prof. Loveland added to accomplish anything. On behalf of
this part of the program with two the committee, the club and the sub
solos which were enthusiastically en- scribers Mr. Reed then presented the
cored. cheek for" the $1,800 bonus to Mr.
Toastmaster Smith told of the pur- George Owen and also presented a
pose of the gathering and gave a brief memorial pledging co-operation,
history of the hotel down to the in- M- Owen replied in a happy vein
ceptlon of its remodelling and the and thanked the citizens who had
part which the Commercial Club had helped to make the new hotel possi-
played in this. ble, .iIbo paying a high compliment to
He then called upon W. E. New- 1Irs- PerozzI and Mrs. Owen, whom
combe, who responded to the toast, he proclaimed to have been great fac-
"Our New Voters," with a talk over- t0 s making the hotel the beautirul
flowing with witticisms, mingled and attractive place which it now is.
with touches of seriousness in which Manager Dobbins of the hotol was
the ladies' part in Ashland's, advance- enWcd upon for a talk and thanked the
ment was eulogized. people of Ashland for their co-opora-
Mrs. E. D. Briggs expressed some tio11 and their interest and pledged
appreciated thoughts In a talk on them evor ready hospitality and a
"Living For Ashland." real welcome at the hotel at all times.
Porter J. Neff of Medford in a sin- TIo gathering then broke up, j
cere address on ''Expansion" compli- n,a,'' remaining to go over the hotel
merited Ashland highly on its expan- again and to extend personal congrat-
!o;i, which followed the lines of the "'atlons to the owners and manager.
not hetlier about moving her young vvire-" Tills business Bhould flourish
from the Held of grain as long as the ,l,u3cl' nis management,
farmer depended upon his neighbors
to harvest the grain, but who moved
out as soon as the farmer was heard
to ma!;e the decision to cut the grain
hinioelf. He compared the people or
Oregon to the farmer and compli
mented Ashland upon taking the In
tiative and deciding to attain needed
Recalling the
County Court
Recall netltlons neninst tha emmfv
court are now being circulated In Btnscd ln the va!lcy'
Ashland. Wednesday a number of Co,ltra"ts have h,,'n signed for a
Medrord citizens, some of them lead- Pnrty of im u",atil,a '"'''ana who
ing democrats, were In Ashland ar- wlM br,nB thfiir famill8 and tenti
ranging for circulating them. They ' 8nd camp on tne Kro"I1,'' N doubt
reported that the petitions were be-if nUm',er f the K'amath trlbe wlU
Ing freely signed all over the lower I '
part of the valley and no doubt would
be filed containing more than half
the legal voters of the county. The !
Tidings has not seen the petition, but
understands the charges are to be dis
crimination in road fund distribution
and road work.
Hordes of Gypsies
Bound for North
The roundup feature of tho celebra
tion promises to be a feature which
! filnno will affront thnnaillut rnUn.
WVUW HVbl Mk illUUOUIlUDl 1 HO
other features aro not fully settlod
upon as yet, but as soon as settled an
nouncements will be made.
The program for the roundup- foi
lows and promises thrills for every
moment of the entertainment:
1. Track Cowboys' cow pony,
race. Half mile, for cow ponies only.
; Winning horse eliminated each day.
j Riders to use chaps and spurs, also
25-pound stock saddle.
Ten wagonloads of Gypsies pas.ed ! 2. Arena-Fancy roping. By Buff
through this city in one party Tues-Jvernon of Pendleton, Smiley Corbett
day morning and others are going of Pendleton. Skeeter Bill of Klamath
through daily. According to the Fai g .
story to d by the Gypsies they are all .,. Track-Cowgirls' pony race,
headed for a big reunion to be held Bame rllIpg pow P
somewhere In Oregon. 4 Ar..nJi- . .. ' ,
The score of automobiles which 'calves 8 """"" Blm
passed through last week loaded to, 5. Track-Maverick race. Steer
the mudguards with Gyps.es. big and ! to have 50 fefit Btt of
itt e created much nterest. While j man plaonK over 1
n the city the Gypsies trie to buy wIng tlle Neck patch no 9
old tires, trade cars and tell fortunes. 6. ArenaLa(ly buck Jfl6
One woman who was sick, applied rl(Ior. By Doroth Morre
to a local doctor for treatment and ath FallB ch , ,
then Insisted on telling his fortune horge rlder of M S
for payment, , ,
7. Track Pony express race. One
I mile race, two horses used, first horse
to run first and third laps, second
horse second and fourth laps. Rider
Local Officers
Take U. S. Exams
making best total time for three days
wins. Riders stnrting from ground,
mounting pony express style.
8. Arena Steer roping. Three
stoers roped and tied daily.
9. Track Squaw nonv race. Half
Captain W. E. Blake and Lieuten
ant Donald M. Spencer returned Tues
day from the regimental headquar
ters of the Coast Artillery at Eugene. ' mile race.
While at Eugene they took the regu-1 10. Arena Bull riding, riders us
lar army examinations In the admin-j Ing saddles.
Istratlon, basic and . implement j 11. Track Cowboys' three-day
branches. The commission course ' relay race. Four horses, each to run
feature was postponed until a later, half mile each day. Riders to use
date. Tho examination was conduct- j chaps and Bpurs, with 25-pound Btock
ed by Lieutenant Shlppen of tho saddle, any kind or cinch.
United States army.
Teams
Mrs. George Yates visited in Med
ford today.: ' " ' ' ' ' - -'' " , -.?
idea Tor which expansion stood In the
highest sense, narro!y. not merely to
grow bigger but to grow better.
"Schools, parks, hotol, spirit of co
operation" these things all stand for
the true meaning of the word "ex-
panoion."
Earl Rasor delighted with a well
rendered solo which was encored.
C. M. Thomas brought roars of ap
preciative applause with a spontane
ously humorous talk on "The Last
Mile," in which, to use his own words,
he "nearly forgot what he was sup
posed to talk about," but finally
pasted the title of his talk onto the
last mile of road between Medford
and Ashland, the Billings hill.
Mrs. Provost and Mr. Rasor then
sang a duet, a most beautiful selec
tion ln which these two voices blend
ed In perfect harmony.
During the course of the banquet
Mr. Smiti read a telegram and letter
from J. M. Scott, one of the liest
friends of Ashland among the South
ern Pacific official family,: In wtrtch
Those who attended were as fol
lows: Messrs. and Mesdames Frank
Jordan, M. C. Reed, C. B. Lnmkln,
J. II. McGee, C. B. WoU, O. H. John
son, F. F. Whittle, O. T. Borgnor,
W. M. Poley. G. N. Kramer. J. J.
Murphy, V. O, N. Smith, W. E. New
combe, G. S. Butler, D. D. Norris,
Clark Bneh, J. W. McCoy, C. P. Chrls
tensen, C. H. Vaupel, George Owen,
Sumner Parker, D. PerozzI, N. G.
Bates, William Brown, W. O. Dicker-
son, Benton Bowers, F. J. Shinn, B.
R. Greer, p. s. Provost, J. M. Wag
ner, E. V. Carter, C. F. Bates, F. B.
Tracey, Clarence Adams, Emil Pell,
W. Y. Crowson, C. M. Thomas, S. S.
Smith, Mr. M. C. Flnloy and party,
Dr. A. W. Boslough and party, Mrs.
E. J. Van Bant and party, Mrs. E. L.
Jack and party, Mrs. M. A. Barron
and party, Mr. A. L. Lamb and party,
Mr. 0. Dldra and party, Mr. F. H.
Mann and party. Mrs. E. H. Warner.
Mrs. E. L. Atkinson, Mrs. L. N. Case,
Mrs. E. D. Briggs, Dr. and Mrs. F. O.
Girls' Ball Team
Plays Here Fridayi
12. Arena Tug of war.
of four saddle horses each.
13. Track Cowboy Roman race.
Two horses each, rider to rise 50 feet
from start.
14. Arena Steer bull-dogglnff.
i Three steers each day.
On Friday afternoon at 3 o'clock' lr'' Track Indian relay race,
tho Carleton girls' baseball team will i r"r lwrtici PC(,n. to ril one-quarter
play a local baseball team on the ra''h (Ia'' 'Nders to nee no sad
Ashland high school athletic grounds. "os-
The gnme will be staged as a benefit! lfi- Track Cowboys' drunken
for the Ashland band nnd a good 1 rl,l ,aney ri,"!'fe- By Walter
turnout of Tans is expected. Tim B(""B 01 ''Pnuieton.
girls' team is strengthened by a malo ' 17- Arp' Peking contest. Free
battery and are said to put up a high- for a11, lli(,01s allowed one rein, and
class article of ball. They have beon 1 wltn n" Si",(lle ovpr H'Hnch swell,
cleaning up sevoral of the Superior A" ('0"tef,,ants to riiie with chaps and
California .ball teams and guarantee , tapml 8,"r8-
in. iracK suck ear horse race.
Wild horse to be given 40 feot start.
Cowboy to rope, catch and ride, with
out saddlo or bridle.
19. Track Cowboys' novelty
race. Staged different each day.
20. Track Wild horse race. Fif
teen horses to be saddled and ridden
once around track. '
a fast game.
(Continued oir Pace Eight.)
School Pageant
Next Saturday
Indications point toward a beauti
ful day Saturday, and the Ashland
parks should see the biggest crowds
of the season out to take In the giant
pageant put on by the children of the
Ashland schools. Several hundred
children will participate and a beauti
ful series of folk dances,' games and
tableau Is on the program.
Phil Rose, former Ashland boy,
who has been teaching In the high -school
at Riverside, Cat., has accepted
a professorship at the University of
California at Berkeley and will tak
up his i new duties in. the biggest coast
university next fall.
