EUUtA PUBLISHING CO.
IMWtiTlt
WM. o. raorr.
C H. warrDtRcu.
F. O.BOWMAN.
The Citizen
Devoted, to ttie Interests of tlie ffoiinteLln People
Knowledge It pewer sad
way to keep 119 with
knowledge It U read
newspaper.
Vol. XVII.
Five Centa a Copy.
BEREA. MADISON COUNTY, KENTUCKY. MAY II. ifllo.
One Dollar a Year.
No. W.
Dixie Highway Route Settled
In a letter dated May 4th from Rockcastle County
Road Engineer, B. T. Moynahan, to H. E. Taylor of our
city the following statement is made. "The Fiscal Court
in session to-day designated the Madison-Rockcastle
inter county seat road via Scaffold Cane. Madison has
agreed to meet us at any point we designate. This
should put a stop to the controversy. Mr. Toms assures
me that this will meet with Mr. Terrill's approval.
"Recent developments make the outlook for a road
over Scaffold Cane a certainty in the near future. We
will probably let a grading contract on this road in the
next thirty days."
Since it is impossible to please everybody as to the
location of this local division of the road, every citizen
should give up his opinion and stand to the agreement
that Madison would meet Rockcastle at any point they
chose. What we want is Dixie Highway. Berea is on
the map and there to stay. Let every man stand to that
which is best for all in general.
We are glad to state that by request of our local
committee the state furnished wholly disinterested engi
neers, with Mr. Toms as chief, to thoroughly investigate
and settle on the most desirable route to meet Rockcastle.
The Scaffold Cane way was chosen as such.
IN OUR OWN STATE
Kentucky's road laws wore further
fortified last Friday by the Court of
Appeals, which uphold the 1300,000
bond isue voted in Pulaski couily.
Dr. A. F. Cornelias of the American Sanitary ((flSER SENDS
r D...-. 1
V,UC1II1I1UII 1ACIUI119
After Rendering a Year's Valuable Service lor Suffering Humanity
in the War zone in bervia
Methodists in conference In Louis
ville, including bishops, secretaries
of boards and rtiinislers of mnny cit
ies, dedicated last Sunday the hand
some new headquarters on Fourth
street of the Board of Church . Extension.
U, S, NEWS
The Hollis Farm Loan Bill, em
bodying a plan for establishing a
system of rural credits, passed the
Senate last Thursday M to 5. The
five negative voles were cast by
Republicans.
A final proposition for the adop
tion of last year's wage scale h.is
been made by the Western Kentucky
mine operators to the miners. A con
vention of the employes will be call
ed to decide whether to accept.
The convention of anthracite min
or At Pnltsvillo. Pa., voted to accept
the agreement, recently reached by
a Joint wage committee, which in
cluded an increase, eight-hour day
and recognition.
Is 100 Taars Old.
Mrs. Susan Bowen, who was 100
years old on May 51 h, was a resident
of Winchester until a short whi!o
ago, when she removed to Torrent.
She retains her physical strength
and mental faculties to a remarkable
degree, making her own bed daily
and assisting with the dish washing.
She has outlived her husband and
nine children. Mrs. Bowen has one
brother, Walter Moore, living in Ok
lahoma, w ho is 93 years old.
I
Two Ksntnckians Victims of Msxi
ean Bandit Ballets.
Hudson Rogers, 17 years old , a pri
vate of Troop A, Fourteenth United
States Cavalry, and a son of L. K.
Rogers, well-known horseman of
Lexington, was the victim of a Mex
ican bullet in the bandit raid Sat
urday morning at Glenn Springs
Texas. News of the death of tho sol
dier boy was received fn a tele,
vrnnhin communication from Colonel
Frederick W. Sibley, in command of
the Fourteenth at Alpine, Texas.
Coincident with the news, came
the report that the body of Win-
fleld Mills, who has worn the army
uniform of Uncle Sam for more than
twentv-seven years, and who was
a cousin of Mrs. Rogers, was expect
ed to arrive in Danville Sunday from
Columbus, N. M., where he was killed
last week w hile on border duty with
bis regiment.
More Roads
According to information received,
2H counties of this state have voted
bonds to tho amount of $5,725,000.00.
In addition to the above figures
bonds will be voted on within tho
next 30 days by It counties to the
amount of 11,870,000.00. This
amounts to over seven and one-half
million dollars In 30 counties, and
will build and improve approx
imately 1.500 miles of road or enough
to cross the state at its widest point
five times.
Progress Bting Made on the Midland
Trail
V. ft Merrill, who is "logging" tho
"Midland Trail" the transcontinen
tal auto route, arrived in Frank
fort Monday from the West Mr.
Merrill came through Kansas, Mis
souri. Illinois. Indiana and Ken-
tuck t eastward.
The Midland Trail from Loulsvillo
leads eastward over the Dixie and
Jackson Ways and the Boone Trail
through Shelbyville and Frankfort,
thence to Versailles, Lexington,
Winchester, ML Sterling, Owings
ville, Morehead, Olive Hill and Cat-
lettaburtr. then crosses into West
(Continued oa ptfe )
Returning from the Buenos Aires
meeting of the International High
Commission, Secretary McAdoo, of
the Treasury, said he found Ameri
canism in high favor and a mutual
desire for a merchant marine and
Pan-American railroad.
J
WILSON ACCEPTS
NO CONDITIONS
YV., : -' c. i
-
x , , ' ; t- ,
, . .. : u .-.
I i -"8 j
FOR VOH BEULOW
Big Event Pending, Is Belief
In Europe.
MAY MEAN PEACE PLANS
The picture above is that of Dr. raging in inn pan
Albert F. Cornelius, one of our fellow , Hf in e0mPT rll'
citizen, who volunteered his pro- 0 rrn 'JZ? T
fessional services for suffering hu- " pd 'rom NT il' ?f?
mani.y in the war-stricken .on. It 7 fk ' Xn Hi
all meant no little sacrifice and risk rrlvcl in the field of action The
on his part but joy in service ren- Urphu. w
dered. It is certainly a pleasure to ' w j
is. hi. nr..hn,w hnih work became that of improving the
n-. ni-t 1. T...I ullk , ' . a ..... sanitary conditions of the prison
nK.HiiHA niv 111 m iidqi 111111 '
...... .w. ...0... ,. He is full of information rcla
camps and caring for the wounded
Britain Separately.
GERMANY PUT ON PROBATION
Secretary Lansing Explain Why the
United tbtei Cannot Discuss With
erlin Mature Pertaining to Rela
tions Between U. and Britain.
lion, lie is iuii 01 iiiiormaiuiu rem- - , Ko,,,-nM.
. as they came from the battlefields.
live 10 me secuons o u.e war ...- - d an ,j8h
where duty called him. kii.i .nm. Ui.h tnnk him to
We here give a short sketch of his . rfnn(rp!. linfl Bnd ln .everai in.
in ordee that those who .,.. 1,,,.- iha nrhir nf hullets
early career i
may read it shall have a deeper ap
preciation of the good deeds per
formed in this time of dire need.,
if a u',1 hnrn In T.mirel
1 1 . nun ... ' J 1 WlllUn Hid IIIU'I' 111U HI VAfi-v.'.
I. r..l.iMiA. 01 anrl in AarlV f..l t U u: l 0nmr!n U.Aiulnnln
J iruiuai; 1 - -v. riu III III III pri la, mon-cv'
childhood came to Berea with his an(j Bulgaria where the need was
nopAnta urhnrA ha mw nn under the nnf ai e ill fhn iTfh it Fahniarv
, V ... n ... . v ..u n - " f - KirDbrni, bill .1.1? ..VII VI u ' - j
I. President influence, educationally, of the free when thev made their way north,
stances heard the whir of bullets
which went clear of their mark.
"j Many were the trying circum-
Ot,a II V' 8 lit lyiiio loiufaisjiii vi "
Laurel County, WOrds are inadefjuate to express,
S'tlblnston, Hay I. riMiim niuurm.0, mm n.imii v.. ...u .. wucil niry iiiww mrn way nun"
Wilson baa sent a note to the Oer school and Berea College. In June doing service in the principal cit
man .overnment. accepting Ita decla- iooa. ne hpgan the practice of medi-!ip. nassino- throueh Petrograd an(
...Uh a .k.nHnnmnllf nf UIaKkI BULV n a knrn Hiipln th. lima hia fnlhAP An4U IhaAiinli I V. a npK PAnln
lavvivi . " " - w - 1 111.; iii-i uui nig iiiv iriiaav " 1 f, 11111 ill 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 L,m i'i v i . awu.v,
marina warfare and rejecting tha bus- Dr p Cornelius, was abroad. After vja Finland and Norway, thence to
ikl lh. TTnllAil nt&tAB Meftra .. .. . 1 ... 1 : . . . ... t.f- 11
osiiuu ui. -.. - - lnal ne weni to uie iiiuuuiuui i i,onnon, Kngiann, ana to nis uauvu
thla abandonment as f'""" Eastern Kentucky, practicing in )nn(it arriving at New York. April
m8" Hyden, Leslie county, and later in 27th, within a few days of the date
the blockade. Letcher county, where he was em- of sailing a year ago.
firm and definite. It ta Intended to ployed by the Consolidated Coal The Doctor is quite optomistio
..... .. . . .. rn.nAm. as Ikal. nhvai.lan Fpnm ..... Ik. :in.f ty A ihlnlra trrnA
remove all doubt on mi pan 01 m uHiau; mm ...... mrr um niiuannu miu ,
Imperial government aa to tha posl- this work he went to Boston to fur- wni come out of all the turmoil that1
tion the United States has taken. ther his preparation where he be- hag been going on among the Euro-
Secreary Lansing Issued toe toiiow- cama engaged in the pubuo heaiin poan countries. He emphasues tne
service; taking lectures and a spe- g(10d treatment and the appreciation
cial course at Harvard. In all this rendered on the part of both belig-
preparatory work he showed skin erents for the service which he naa
and a living interest in his chosen th privilege of rendering.
line. 1 We are grateful for his safe re-
The call came to him, as a member
Prince Responds to Hurry Call From
the Kaiser For a Personal Inter
view of Extreme Importance Many
Theories Advanced For Conference.
Tendon. Mtv . Prince Bernhard
von Buelow, the former Imperial Ger
man chancellor, at present looms
large on the political borlson of Eu
rope.
The only man living who has ever
dared to extort from his Imperial
mutter a nledce of greater discretion
In the discussion and conduct of the
German empire's affairs, is now speed
ing In a special train toward tbe
great general army headquarters, in
the field, In response to a hurry call
from the kaiser, who baa bidden him,
It ia reported, to a personal interview
"of extreme importance.
The prince has been . the greater
part of the past year in Switzerland,
notably ln Luzerne, Zurich and Berne.
It la at the Utter city that, according
to a dispatch, the Imperial Invitation
of a hurried visit to headquarters
reached him. Dispatch stated that the
prince waa "leaving for Berlin," but a
later message from The Hague,
brought the news of the call from the
emperor.
Three theories were advanced In
well-informed circles here with ref
erence to the possible purpose of the
conference between the kaiser and
the hero of the famous "falser crisis"
of 1908. They are:
First That Prince von Buelow ta
to take over the governmental reign
of the empire by resuming his former
office of imperial chancellor, succeed
ing Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg.
Second That he la to be entrusted
with an Important mission In behalf
of the bringing about an opening for
peace negotiations with the allies,
nmhatiiv thronch the medium of a
BAiitral nower.
Third That he la to be sent to the
United States on a mission from the
kilter to President Wilson.
Tn connection with the last theory
It Is also suggested that the prince
may go to Washington aa German am
baaaador to the United States, it be
ing pointed out In some quarters, that
Count von BernstorfTs position has
become somewhat embarrassing dur
ing the long course of the submarine
controversy and that this embarrass
ment has been added to In no incon
siderable degree by the recent seizure
of certain papera in the New York of
fice of the former secretary to Captain
Frans von Papen, the recalled Ger
man military attache.
Rumors or all kinds have been rife
of late concerning Prince von Bue
low. Private dispatches from Berlin
said he was to resume the Imperial
chancellorship, while other advices
were to the effect that he was to
take the place of Dr. von Jagow as
foreign minister.
It has been for many months an
open secret that the prince, while ln
Switzerland, waa engaged In private
and Informal negotiationa with cer
tain high officials of other powers ln
behalf of peace, though he has
himself steadfastly denied the report.
WORLD HEWS
The German answer to the de
mands of the United States, regard
ing the use of submarines, has been
received. Germany agrees to stOi
tornodninir nassoniror anil freight
liners without due warning and suf
ficient time for passengers and crew
to make their escane. This has been
the requirement of international law
and is all the United States has con
tended for.
The German note seeks, in yield
ing to the demands of the United
States, to nlace unon this country tha
responsibility of forcing England to
stop her violations or international
law. Thoueh England's acts have
been annoying, they have not led to
the destruction of human life and
therefore the United States has
sought a settlement from Germany
first. Now the way is clear to push
more strongly our protests against
England's violations of law and neu
tral rights.
Lord Robert Cecil, in behalf of the
English Foreign Office, takes excep
tion to Germany s statement regard
ing England s blockade as a starva
tion measure. He calls attention to
the inconsistency of the clauses in
the note, which suggests a hungry
nonulation in Germany, and the
statement of the German Chancelor
before the Reichstag in which ha
ridiculed the idea of England's abili
ty to seriously affect the food supply
of Germany.
Ins statement explaining way tne
United Statea cannot dlacusa matters
pertaining to tha relatione between
this government and Great Britain
with the imperial government:
hi . ....... n. it lh a nurman
111 IDV.I I - 1
answer is devoted to matters which j
thla covernment cannot discuss with of the American Sanitary Commis-
the German government Tho only 8jon, for service in Servia to fight
Questions of right which can be dls
cussed with that government are
those arising out of Us action or out
of our own and tn no event those
questions which are tha subject of
dlplomatlo exchanges between the
United States and other countries.
"The essence of the answer la that
Germany ylelda to our representations
with regard to the rlghte of merchant
ahlps and noncombatanta on the high
seaa and engages to observe the rec
ognlsed rules of International law
governing naval warfare In ualng her
aubmarlnea against merchant ships.
So long aa she Uvea up to this altered
the awful scourge of typhus that
turn and are proud that one of our
citizens and fellow-townsman has
had so great a part in such impor
tant work for humanity.
Daughter": Comic
Literature For Rural Schools.
PAGE 4. Locals.
So long aa sne uvea up 10 im. ao
nollcr we can have no reason lo quar- , FABE 5. I-ocai News iiems.
pOIIOJ Wl can . . lal! a U lain 1 (rrloill
CONTENTS Birmingham.
PAGE 1. Editorial; Route of Dixie PAGE I. Eastern Kentucky
Highway Settled; Dr. A. F. Cor- Letters; Poem.
nelius Returns from Servia and
the War Zone; Our Own State
News; United States News;
World News.
PAGE a. Departmental Columns.
News;
The time is at hand when many
visitors are in our midst. The Citi
zen ia the nlace to record their
visits. This we do for accommoda-
........ . iinn iin vim whiil vu r ihibiiii'bb
PAGE 3. Serial, "The Forester's .,,,., P,,cor,i(l(1 we charge the nom-
n:.l.......
lu. inal sum of our regular rate, we
must live as well as the other fel-
rel with her on that ecore. thui"h he
losses resulting from the vio n'on ct
American righte by Germon snb-s-rlne
commanders operating iin 'p His
former policy will have to b s-ti'e'l.
"While our differences will O'eat
Britain cannot form a subject of dis
cussion with Germany. It should be
stated that ia our dealings with the
British government we are acting, as
are; unquestionably bound to act
(OoaUauod ea Page five)
PAGE 1 Mountain Agriculture.
Conway Farmers; Borea Corn
Show and Fair. Every Farmer
Should Read Soil Fertility Bul
letin; What Is Farm Manage
meiitr Home Department: How
John Quit the Farm; A Cabi
net Lady.
PAGE T International Sunday
School Lesson; Prizes For Home
spun Fair; Young Folks Col
umn; Confederate Reunion in
PRINCE VON BEULOW
To Confer With Kalaor on
Matter of Great Importance.
low.
The Citizen still possesses the en
viable reputation as being a splen
did advertising medium. The goons
move and move fast when it be
comes our privilege to tell the peo
ple about what you have. Try us.
TV. !.,,.- .1,. nut nnvA unlAsa vnii'iiiina mum fnr TWea than The Citi
llllllfl. UW II I W . J W.B.WV J V -' "
get In behind them and boost. Your iien when it comes to boosting. Why
w 1. 1 I I : 1 V...m. . kiuula.
business, Mr. nusiness Man, is n noi una up mu nmwuo imh
drag on your hands if you do not and see your business grow to your
boost for your town and your neigh-jown satisfaction and your neigh
bor. No other business in townbors'T
The insurrection in Ireland has
been put down but it has led to the
retirement of Augustine Burrill from
the Cabinet, where he held the po
sition of Secretary to Ireland. Ha
appeared to favor a policy of leni
ency, which had previously been
fitted to the situation, but which
was decidely out of place in dealing
with such a condition as had arisen
in Dublin.
The National Geographical Society
calls attention to the large extent of
territory that France has recovered
since the early invasion of the Ger
mans in the beginning of the war.
This territory covers an area of
more than two thousand and five
hundred square miles, including
some large and important cities noted
for historic associations as well as
for manufactures and commerce.
The conference of General Scott
and General Obregon, the Mexican
Minister of War. seems to have been
more effective than had been ex
pected. They have practicaly ar
rived at an agreement which will al
low the American troops to remain
in Mexico and pursue their purpose
more fully. There are limitations
to the extent of the American search
and to the duration of it, but this is
compensated for by the use of tha
railroads and other concessions.
American troops in Mexico have
won another victory over the bandit
followers of Villa. After a hard
march of 26 miles they succeeded ln
surprising a band, and in the en
gagement which followed killed 2
Mexicans, without suffering any loss
themselves. Such victories do much
to discourage the opposition.
The use of American capital in
opening up production in Mexico
and resuming industry is being fav
ored by Mexican authorities as a
good way to break up the spirit of
the revolution. Idleness of the pop
ulation is regarded as a great causa
of unrest and lawlessness.
The bill to withdraw American
sovereignity from the Philippine Is
lands did not pass Congress, and
there is likely to be a good deal of
opposition to the measure. Miny
cf the younger Philippines them
selves do not favor it and are mak
ing their point of view better known
and understood in the United States.
VILLA BANDITS
FORD RIOGRAtlDE
Americans Shot Down As They
Flee From Hut Troopers
Routed By Fire Balls
Wealera Newapapar Valoa Kaws latlH
Alpine, Tex. Villa bandits, some 70
In number,, lorded, the. Rio. Grande
'(Coounued ea Pato Five)
