jjjy
iM i
VOL. LXG. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY. MAY 11, 1916.
NUMBER 46.
tRIOD Or CALM
DDE ft! C
I0W
LVn LU Ul
WESTERN FRONT
uutuiy in uic negiun in vcitiun
Small Actions Attempted
by the Germans Successfully
Met by the French.
FEW CHANGES ELSEWHERE
Constantinople Reports Victor
ies for the Turks in Asia Mi
nor Russians Repulsed in
Attack on Garhunovka No
Advances in Italian Theatre.
England's execution GENERAL OBREGQN'S
COURSE PUZZLE
TO U. S. OFFICIALS
OF IRISH REBELS IN
DUBLIN WILL CEASE
Fast Growing Resentment of People in Ireland Is
Climaxed by the Sensational Announcement
That Three Dublin Editors Were Shot in
Barracks before Martial Law Was Declared
Lord Lieutenant Baron Wimborne Resigns.
London, May 1ft. .On the western
front In Franc, notably In tlir region
or Verdun, which for weeks lias heen
the theatre of the most sanguinary
conlllets of the world w.ir, compara
tl i ealin prevails. The Fn neh, lnnv
f ' i I', have heen able to capture par
ti n s of a German trench on the west
hi of Lo Mori llonnne and to put
nt naught a Herman attack near Illll
7 betwieti the Wood of .Malancourt
lid Lr Mint Homme, launched in an
ldeaor to advance further the Ger
n in line toward Verdun.
From none of the other fronts has
nny Indication eome of material change
in the positions of the belligerents.
J.at r reports show the Russians have
In en repulsed In an nttack on the Ger
mans south of (larbunovka, suffering
heavy casualties. On the south Aus-lio-Itnllan
front the usual bombard
ments and Isolated infantry attacks
ore still in progress.
Constantinople ehionicles victories for
the Turks against the Russians in north
oin Asia Minor and northwest of Mush
mid the defeat of the Russians with
huivy losses and the capture of some
prisoners near Mount Ilathll.
The recent attack by tho Turkish
d.flllfnH T7.-n..l. T I.... tln.tl.
-mini.-. I IJl'Jllllt .1,1,11.-.. IhUmtlll ll,Hl
na ports Is declared by Constantinople
to have been made as a reprisal against
the Russian (loot, "which bombards
open towns and villages on the Anatolian
const "
The bombardment by tho Teutonic
Itllles of points on tho Polrnn-Glovgoll
pector of the Macedonian front con
tinues according to unofficial advice.
The Hermans, these reports say, after
having thrown numerous shells into the
town of Mayad.i occupied the place.
but were compelled to evacuate under
b French counter nttack. Numerous
J7-tn ii guns are '-ticlng placed along this
fi nt by the Germans.
London, May in. Treland provided a
number of sensations to-day. Th"
11 rat was the announcement of the res
ignation of Baron Wlnibornc, lord non
tenant, which undoubtedly has been
in I'remler Asqulth's hands for some
time, acceptance being delayed until
normal conditions are n stored in 1 ro
ll nd.
The second was the appointment of
a commission headed by Lord 1 lard
Inge to Investigate the causes of the
Irish outbreak. A third was tho ad- I
mission by the government of the
truth of tho report that Sheehy
.Skefflngton, editor or the Irish Citi
zen, and two other Journalists had been
executed In the I'ortobello leirracks In ,
Dublin without the knowledge of the'
military authorities and before mar
tini law was actually in operation.
A fourth was the granting of the
veteran Dillon's demand for a special
session of tho House of Commons to
discuss the executions in lielanil, and
finally, tho Issue of an Impoi lant
manifesto to the Irish people liv .lohn
Redmond strongly denouncing the re
bellious movement anil eloquently ap
pealing to Ireland to stand fast In
constitutional means to obtain self-
government.
Of these Important eents by far
the most sensational was the levela
tion concerning Hkeffington, which
formed the climax of the fast grow
ing resentment of tho Irish people at
tho continuance, of executions in Dub
lin, which has already given the gov
ernment pause and induced I'remler
Asiiuith to give an undertaking that
there will bo no more executions thai
Ing the promised parliamentary dis
cussion, although there are two rebels
still awaiting execution.
Thus far tho courts martial have dealt
with "! prisoners, of whom 11! have al
ready been executed. Flvo of tho seven
signatories of the proclamation of Mie
Irish lepublle have paid the. last penalty.
Four re! els have been sentenced to life
Impilsonment; 21 to ID years and -12 to
lesser terms:.
1'ieii.ler Asqullh announced in Patlla
inent to-day that the trials by court mar
tial had practically tlnNhed. Mo hoped
that there would he no further need to
inoceed with extreme rigor.
While there Is considerable differences
of opinions as to whether U Is safe to re
voke martial law In Ireland yet, and
many members of both house ale satis
fied that Majoi-Gen. Sir John Maxwell's
severity was fully Jiistilied, the SKclllng
ton Incident causes Indignation, lie was
shot on April M. Martial law eaino Into
operation on April "Jfc. The prime minis
ter described the shooting as "an Isolated
act of an Iriesponslhlo individual, who
was placed under arrest."
Home members of the lords and com
moos objected to Baron Hal dingo is
chairman of the commission on th
cm ions ground that lie was responsible
for the liilllsh expedition in Mesopotamia.
Nothing Is Known to-night as to Inn.'
the Irish Vi lean 'les will be lllled and It 's
not unlikely that there may be nonm
shuffling of cabinet seats as the result
of the resignation of Augustine Hlrrcll
as chief secretary for Ireland, and the
return of Winston Spencer Churchill t )
politics.
The nationalists at an adjourned meet
ing to-day adopted a set les of Important
i esolutlons, Intituling a strong expression
of opinion that continued executions
would cause bitterness and exasperation
among Irish people having no sympathy
with tho insurrection, and that in the
Interests of the empire, as well as Ireland.
' martial law should be revoked.
Although Carranza, It Is Rc-
llcvcd, Has Given His Assent
to Co-operative Agreement,
His Wat- Minister Balks.
GERMANY ADMITS
ITS SUBMARINE
SANK THE SUSSEX
MOOSEWILL NOT
5T THAT T. R.
BE A CANDIDATE
m BE PLAYING POLITICS
Negotiations Make No Progress
Proposed Joint Troop Pa
trol of Border Not Seriously
Considered Meanwhile Mili
tia Is Being Mobilized.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
Washington. May 10. The course of
General Obregon at 111 l'aso has been
puzzling. Administration officials, have
had reason to believe that General Car
ranza has given his assent to the agree
mcnt as oliginally fran. 1 except In
minor details. The plan was suggested
In part at least by General Obregon
himself when the conferees first met,
yet Obregon litis icfused thus far to ex
change ratifications with General Scott.
In some utiarters it was thought the
Mexican war minister might be seeking
political benefit from the tactics he has
adopted. There Is no official Informa
tlon tending to support this lew, al
though Intimations of friction between
Carianza and his war minister have necn
published frequently.
It is not believed here that political
manipulation of this sort. If it does
exist, will be prolonged to the point of
causing a break with the t'nlteil States.
A feeling of optimism as to the final
result of the conference Is based largely
on this view, and also on the fact that
General Scott has given no indication
that he thought an agreement could
not be reached.
Also That the Act Was in Violation of Assurances
Given the TJ. S. ExnreSSeS Regret and An-!15" Republicans Must Name a
nounces That the Submarine Commander
Has Been Punished Is Ready to Pay Indem
nities to Americans Injured.
Washington,
nolo received
May 10. Germany In alin the note of the undersigned of the
bv the state department I xi nth ultimo that the damage of the
Man at Chicago Who Is Able
to Put Progressive Principles
Through.
STATEMENT BY PERKINS
to-day by cablo ftom Ambassador
enird admits that a German submarine
totpctlocil the channel nte.tiner Sussex
in violation or assurances given tho
Fnlted States, oxpie.oes regret for the
Incident, announces that the submarine
commander litis I ecu "nppropi lately
Sussex was to bo trared hack to a
eauso other than the attack of a tier- '
mini submarine, cannot bo
"Such an assumption had
at with certainty from the material in the
possession or tho German government lor
Itself, and without futther knowledge
punished" and declares readiness to pay the circumstance -i connected with the .or-
to Americans
an adequate indemnity
injuied on tho vessel.
It was indicated at the state depart
ment that the German statement that
tlie offending commander had been pun
ished would be accepted, as the Sussex
case was regarded as closed except for
artanglng for the payment of Indemni
ties to the several citizens of the t "fitted
States which were hurt. There ptob-
ably will be no attempt to negotiate for I transport
these indemnities or for final settlement channel;
tiedolni? of the Sussex, the mote so as
apart from the points enumerated in th;
note or the loth ultimo the following facts
had come to the attention of the admir
alty starr of the navy through 'ell.ible
Information: March 21, IBM. approximate
ly at the, same time as the Sussex, an
auxiliary warship left the port of Folk
stone with a largo transport of Hriilsh
Infantry on board; on the same day a
teamer was topodood in t'le
few minutes preceding the ex
maintained - Roosevelt Will Be Suggested tc
to lie arrived i
G. 0. P. Convention If He Is
Not Wanted Republicans Will
Be Asked to Name a Leader
Who Can Re-unite the Parties.
of
' I li wiii.rl. n innuu rif I im'rfti.l.'n ire which
. ' ' ' v....--
I created the impression that a ship had
of the Litsltanln and other cases petal- plosion on the Sussex, she hail passed
Ing. however, until sttlflelont time lias
elapsed to Indicate how the last Ameri
can note was received In Herlin and I sunk at that spot shortly before. All
whether the new submarine policy Is j these facts justified the conclusion .'hat
being lived up to. ' tho only care of torpedoing which could
, 1 1
facts supplied by the American govern
ment, the German communication 'ays,
has shown that the contention originally :
set up that the explosion on the Sussex ,
was to be traced to cause other than j
a German submailne attack cannot lie1
maintained. While assorting that the i
submarine commander thought he was j
dealing with an enemy warship. Foreign j
Minister Von Jngow admits that he'
fotmed his Judgment too hurriedly and I
thererore did not act fully in accord
ance with the strict Instruction which
called on htm to exercise particular j
INSTRUCTIONS FOR
REPUBLICAN VOTERS
Montpeller, May 10. In response to
Inquiries, Stanley C. Wilson, chairman
of tin republican Stato committee, to
day issued the following statement:
At the primaries on May 10 no names
of republican candidates for piesldent
will appear on the printed ballot, no
jietltlons for any republican candidate
having been Hied with tho secretary of
Etate, lepubllcun voters should therefoio
express their preference by writing In
the republican column tho name of the
man 'hey desire for candidate for nrcsl
clmt and then marking a cross (X) In
the square at the tight of the name so
written. A sticker bearing a printed
jiami mal be used Instead of writing the
name, out tlie cross (X) must be made
t the voter himself in the proper
fiuaie in either ease In order to have
e ote counted. I understand the
nhotr is in accord with an opinion of
Attorney-General Harbor rendered to
the secretary of stato at a recent dato,
The State committee Is not to furnish
Ulckers, but individuals or organlza
tlons In favor of any candidate have
the right to furnish them to voters If
they desire
FIRE LOSS $30,000.
I'lrc Destroys I'lunt of Vermont llnt-
ti r Tub Company nt lliirten.
Harton, May 10. Flro broke out In tho
holler room of the Vermont liutter Tun
company's factory during tho momentary
nbsenco of tho engineer at live o'clock
this afternoon, destroying tho main build
I g, dry kiln, machinery, and consider
nble lumber and material, entailing
loss of 30,000, There Is insurance of
fJO.GHO. Fifty men aie thrown out of em
ployineiit.
Owing to the small srzo of the water
main at this point the firemen had only
two etfectlvo streams of water with which
to fight tho llames, which mado rapid
progress, Tho two-story wooden factory
was completely destroyed and the dry
Mln wn,s also a total loss. Tho Carey
Maple Sugar company warehouse and tho
j; W. Uarrou Co.'s storehouse, tho coal
Meds, and tho storehouse of tho tub
Jactury wcro threatened, hut llttlo dam
aged, tho wind being in a favorable
quarter.
It Is not probable that the factory will
ho rebuilt an the company had con
1 mplated moving the machinery to
JlBlno, whern It has standing timber. A
rorHdera-ble stock of logs Iloating In tho
n o close bv will probably bo sold.
The Ir.ss Is a heavy one to Hurton ns
tho factory omplujfd moio than any one
i idustry In town.
MIDDLEBURY.
County Agent Carrlgan ropoits that
the boys' corn project has now com
pleted Its first term and the entries for
tlie contest must be considcted i losed.
Mr. Carrlgan says the responsu to this
work has been most giatifying. In
most communities the appointed local
leader has responded in a most satis
factory manner, and at this early date
all of the boys are enrolled and the
corn seed Is now being distributed. The
following aie the leadets who have ac
cepted appointments and the number of
boys enrolled: Addison, bader, A. T,
Clark, number of boys, eight; liristol,
Monkton, Lincoln, Slarksboro. J.
Sleden, Jr., 10; Cornwall, E. H. l'eet,
four; Leicester, Fori est Ayer, 12; Mid
dlcbury, Weyhridge. .1. K. Carrlgan. six;
New Haven, F. S. ITognu, three; Orwell.
tho ltcv. L. M. Isaac, 1"; Shnteham, I
Hrldport, Kugeno Kddy, ?,); Sudbury. ,
C. W. Jones, four. This is a total of t
100 boys, oil of whom nro planning to i
exhibit coin at the county com "how '
tills fail. Ten boys exhibited corn last
year. The spread of this movement ;
shows that tho work is bound to bo
far-reaching in its results. The Addl- 1
son County farmers association, me
Grange, tho county V. M. C, A and
tho school arc all behind this move-
citizen., have
pivpatatlons
Mc
ul the college
the Memorial
delivered by
Farlnnd of
ALIIFS' SINK THANBPOHT.
1'nrln, May 1 11:'"' P- m. A French
f ibriiarlne tank tin enemy trnnspurt Indcp
with war material in tho lower Adriatic
rea yesterday, says a llavas despatch
from Koir.e
llltlTISII HTKAMFJl SUNK
l.ordor May 10. Tho Hrlttsh "teamer
Jvilconth has been sunk, according to a
report to Lloyds, r
nient and It Is the Intention to make
tho corn show bigger and bettor than
over. Miss Lllzabetn Turner, wno nan
been 111 for some tlmo at her home on
Frar.klln street, died abotvt 7:30 o'clock
Friday morning at the age of G.r, years
of a complication of troubles. She was
the daughter of tho late Mr, and Mrs.
William Turner of Cornwall, where she
was born. She Is survived by three
sisters, Mrs. Alice Ilurlburt, Miss Ida
Turner nnd Miss Stella Turner, of this
villaue. She moved horo about 1 years
ago. Sho joined tho Congregational
Church nt Cornwall when a young
woman and whon sho camo to this vll- j
lago sho becamo a member of the local
church. Tho funeral was held at her
homo homo Sunday afternoon at -'::'
o'clock, tho Itev. Thomas Slinms of
Oroton, Me., a former pastor of the
Congregational Church In this village,
officiating. Burial was In tho family I
lot In Cornwall.
The annual meeting of tho "Young I'eo-1
pie's society of the Memorial Baptist
Church was held In tho church parlors
Friday evening. Tho leports of the of- j
fleers weie lead and showed that tho
society was In a good condition. Tho fol
lowing olllcers were elected: Piesldent
C. F. lllch; vice-president, Miss Mildred
Dolphin; secretary, M!sB Until Delphlu;
treasurer, Glenn Sitinnor; prayer meeting
committee, Cushman Dolplila, Glenn Hum
tier, tho Hev. Itoy 10. "Whlttlmoro and
V. M. Mitchell; lookout committee Wal
ter Slmonds, Harold Dolphin and K. N.
Holmes; social committee,' William Tur
ner, Frank Ilullock, Kntherluo McCreay,
Oliver Darter and Isabello Hrlstol; mis
sionary committee, Mrs. I. L. Iteeves,
Iris Ilullock and Leon Turner; mnslo
committee, Dr. A. I). llurter and Waller
Slmonds. A social hour was enjoved.
Mrs. M. It. Hurt and daughter, who have
been visiting nt tho home of her puientn,
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Calhoun, have
returned to Oswego, N. Y. ..Mrs. Maria
F. Swift and daughter. Miss Frances L.
Hwl't, of Detroit, Mich, are at the
Addison All" and Mrs George Farrcll
of CoJiB'i fcUc."1 are uarcnto of a son.
Profesror Thomas ', Iioyce lias gone to
liiciid Loaf Inn, where he will spend the
summer. The hotel will open Tor the sea
sun June IT. -Mrs. V. II. Dean has le
tuiiKd from a visit to her daughter, Mrs.
('. II. Amudcn of Watertown, Mass.. and
her niece, Mis. II. D. Kent, of Somervllle.
Mass. There will be a Parent-Teacher
association meeting in tlie high school
building Fiidny afternoon at three
i'i lock. Jes'-e Mack, who has lived for
a year on the Scrnnton faun in Fertls
'iurg, has leturned and will carry on tho
Muzzy farm just ovi r Chlpnuin Hill tins
Button. Miss Gladys Cnrlmell has
resigned her position at tho National
batik of Mlddlebiiiy and will look alter
the ofllre woik in her father's garage
on Washington street. Philip Calhoun
htis aci epted the position made vacant
and entered iinoti Ills duties.
The joint committee ol the Grand
Army, Ladies of tlie Gland Army and
already begun making
for tlie observance of
morial day. President John M. Thomas
will give the address and
Sunday dlscouiso will 1
Professor Itnymotnl .M
the college. Mrs. John
Stoddard, who has been visiting at
the homo of Mr. and Mis. C. F. Itlch for
a week, has returned to her home in
Itlptnu. Finnic J. Heed, who has been
spending a few days with his aunt, Mrs.
Charles Ilullock, has returned to New
Voik city, Frank Warren has put'cha"ed
the IS. L. Plough bouse on Court street
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Page of Ausahle
Folks, N, V., oio In town. Mrs. Carl
Morlocl: and daughter, Caroline, of
Jamaica Plain, Mnss., are visiting for
montli with her parents Mr. and Mrs
A. H. Smith. Myron Heed, who has been
confined for somo time by sickness, has
so far recovered as to be able to bo
about the streets again. Mis. P. I
uoiey, who has been seriously 111, la rc-
covf ring.
News has been leceived of tho death
Friday of Professor Fdwin Hnll Hlgley
formerly of Miildlcbitry, and for 10 years n
professor In Mlddlobitry College. Ho died
of pneumonia after a two weeks' illness
Professor Hlgley had a varied career, He
was born In I'astleton February 15, 1S13,
and so was in his Tlth year. Mr. Hlgley
preiwired for college In the Castloton Horn
Inary and entered Midillolmry College In
1S0O, In his sophomore vear ho unlisted
I September .".o, Ikll, In Company K, 1st
Vermont cavalry ns a private, hut subse
I quently was promoted through tho varl
mis grades to full captain and brevet
major, nnd served throughout the Civil
War, with the exception of nine months
as a captive In southern prisons. He
ro-ontered college In tho fnll of IstVi and
wan graduated with tho class of IStK,
Subsequently ho taught In Chaiiestown
Ma-ss., for tho four yenrs from to 1S7J,
and then was professor of Greek and
German in Middlohury Collego ftom IS
to IRS'.'. From 1SV2 to lWi he was In Ger
many and studied philology, philosophy
nnd music, at Lelpsle and Hoiiln. Ho
. turning to his natlvo country he was mas
ter of Greek and Gorman ill the Groton
, Mass., school up to the time of Ills re
' cent Illness, a period of over 31 yean
Many times during this peilod he has re
turned to town to visit relatives and re
How his old college associations. His
Alma Mater mado him an l.L. D. In 19l.
On June 1S70. Professor 'llgley married
Miss Sniah .1. Tinner of Mlddli-hury, who
survives lilm; on? brother, Alfred 1C
Hlgley of Castloton. Piof Hlgley died at
Groton, .Mass, where lio had taught so
Kl Paso, Texas, May 10. Negotiations
over American troop dispositions in
Mexico made no progress to-day. Gen
eral Obregon awaited wold from Gen
eral Carranza as to tlie course he is
now to pursue and when Instructions
did not come, a coiifeience pioposcd for
this morning was postponed until to
morrow. Falling In their efforts to have a
definite date for withdrawal set, it was
reoorted to-night that the Mexican gov
ernment may next try to have pait of
the Ameilcnn troops taken out at once,
leaving the remainder to co-operate
with tho forces of the de facto govern
ment In the pursuit of villa ttoops.
If this plan were rejected, it was In
dicated to-ulght, the Mexicans were
likely to decide further attempts to
liter the position of the United States
ue.sless and It was oeiieven iney wouin
then agree to the proposals of the
American government. '
In an authoritative quarter to-night1
tlie belief was expressed that to-mor-1
ow's meet ing would be the last of
the confetences and that General obre
gon will endorse me leniaiive agroi
nient with perhaps a few minor
changes. Asked whether to-morrow s
meeting would be final. General Obre-1
gon said: "I don't know, there might
lie other meetings."
In the absence of new proposals, the
Ituatlon now stands as follows:
Generals Hugh L. Scott and Freder
ick I'unston are unalterably opposed
to any agieement which sits a date
for American withdrawal from Mexico.
However, the American conferees tire
listening to nil proposals the Mexican
minister of war may make while waiting
for him to realize that the Intentions of
tho American government In Mexico are
immovable.
In the meantime General Obregon's pro-
posal for a joint troop patrol of the border
is not given serious consideration, al
though It was reported to Washington.
The American conferees, It Is said,
doubt If the do facto government can
muster sufficient forces to form a pairol
of the fort outlined and at the same time
carry on Its campaign against the Zapata
and Villa forces.
care.
Officials of the
particularly the
which said, "in
state department noted
passage of the note
view of these eireuin-
stances tlie Getinan government frankly I
admits that the assurance ghen the
American government, In accordance
with which passenger vessels weie not
to be attacked without warning, has not
been adhcied to In the present case,"
This was lesarded as indicating a
purpose on Germany's part to decline
to pay indemnities for Amei leans killed
or injured In attacks on ships other
than passenger liners prior to the date
of the last note in which the German
government promised that fielght
well as passenger vessels would not
attacked without Warning or without
provision for the safet or pet sons
aboard. Any response to the note re
ceived to-day probably will make a
distinct reservation of American tights
on this oint.
Full Text of Note.
The Germnn note, signed by Foreign
Minister Von Jagow and addressed to
Ambassador Gerard, is dated .May S
and the ambassador's cablegram trans
mitting it May 0. It says In part:
Supplementing his note of the
Instant concerning the conduct ot
erinan submarine warfare, the
erslgned has the honor to inform
"xcellenoy the American ambassador,
Mr. James W. Gerard, that the fur
ther Investigation made by the German I can government will consider the cae
naval authorities conceineu, in regnru
to the Frencli steamship Sussex on the
basis of the American material has
ecu concluded In the meantime. In j
otiforinity with tlie result of this In-i
cstlgation the assumption expressed
San Antonio, Texas, May 10, Pieparn
tlons for handling otto of the largest mil
itia camps ever held In the Fnlted States
since tho Spanish-American war were
completed to-day by army olllcers of
the southern department at Kurt Sain
Houston. Troops of tlie Texas National
guard got under way in special trains
from many points to-night and tho first
of tho organizations will begin nrrlvln
In tho morning.
As fast ns companies reach San
Antonio they will be sent to tlie
manoeuvre Held where the mobilization
camp has been laid out.
A separate camp has been laid out
for the 11 companies of coast artillery
ordered to Fort Rani Houston from gulf
and Atlantic seaboard points.
To-night headquarters announced the
of the coast artillery com
nrilve would be moved on to
to strengthen the base at
Others will be held In the
distribution along the border.
first one
patties to
Marathon
Hoqulllas.
camp for
WEST RIVER RAILROAD.
(.(.outluuid ou t'uuc to-.
IMrrta J. C. Averlll of .oru Ich, Conn
President nt Annual Alerting,
St. Albans, Miy 10. At tho annual
meeting of the stockholders of tho West
Hiver Itallroad company held In thl
city this morning the following hoard of
directum was elected: t II. Osgood of
New London, Conn., John P. Averlll .(
Norwich, Conn., J. A. Southard of New
Uindon, Conn., VS. t Smith, G. C. Jones
J. Gregory Smith and John Kranch, all
of St Albans. The tllicetins elected Mr,
Averlll president, F c Smith lci-piesl
dent, and II. Chaffee, clerk and tu-as
urui".
4th
the
had struck' the Hritish war vessel where
as, the Sussex had met with an accident
In some other way.
AGHFF.S WITH t'NITLD STATICS.
"However, on the basis of tho Ameri
can material, the German government
cannot withhold its conviction that the
ship totpedoed by tho German submarine
is In fact Identical with tlie Sussex, for
in accordance with this material the
place, the time and the effect ot the
explosion by which the Sussex was
damaged, agree in the essential details
with the statements of the German com
mander, so that there can no Innccr bo
any question of the possibility of two
Independent occurrences.
"In view of the general impression of
all the facts at hand, the German gov
ernment considers It beyond doubt that
tho commander of the submarine acted
In tho bonnllde belief that he was fac
ing an enemy warship. On the other
hand, It cannot bo denied that, misled
by the appearance of tho vessel, under
the pressure of the circumstances, he
formed his judgment too hurriedly In
establishing her character and did not
therefore act rally In accordance with
the strict Instructions which called upon
to exercise particular care.
COMMANDFH PFNISIILD.
"In view of thee circumstances, the
German government frankly admits that
the assurance given to the American
government. In accordance with which
pasenger vessels were not to be at
tacked without warning, has not leen
adhered to in the piesent case. As was
intimated by tlie undersigned In the note
of the fourth instant the German gov
ernment dees not hesitate to draw from
this resultant consequences. It there
fore expresses to the American govern
ment Its -lncere regiet legardlng the de
plorable Incident and declares Its read
iness to pay an adequate indemnity to
the injured American citizens. It also
disapproved of the conduct of the com
mander, who has been appropriately
punished.
"Fxpre.-'sing tlie hope that the Anerl-
I him
bo :
of the Sussex as settled by these state
ments, the undersigned avails himself
of this occasion to renew to the ambas
sador the assurance of his highest con
sideration "VON JAGOW "
EDERATION OF
WOMEN'S CLUBS
i.OOO
Will A I lend Xntlonnl Conten
tion lit Xc York.
New York, May 10 The National
American Woman Suffrage association
Is making arrangements to spread suf
frage propaganda among tho lD.OoO dele
gates expected to attend the convention
of the General Federation of Women's
clubs hero from May CI to June '.'. Suf
frage leaders announced to-day that the
delegntcs will bo Invited to attend a
mass meeting, at which Mrs. Caule
Chapman Catt, piesldent of the associa
tion, will preside.
Mrs. O. II. P. llelmont, who represents
the Congicsslonal I'nlon for omens
Suffrage, lias issued ,1,10) Invitations to
sttrrraglsts and delegates to tho conven
tion of women's ilubs to attend a gar
den party at her home nt Great Neck,
I.. 1.. on Juno 2.
FOUR OF CYMRIC'S
CREW WERE KILLED
Hantry, Ireland, May 10. Details of the
sinking of the White Star liner Cymrl"'
were given to-day by members of the
crew who were landed. They say the
torpedo which destroyed the ship cut th
engine room. The explosion blew out all
the skylights and extinguished all the
lights. Four men were killed by the ex
plosion nnd the chief steward was drown
ed trying to reach a boat when the crew
abandoned the ship. Members of tho
crow, 107, took to the boats shortly after
the liner was torpedoed, but when It was
seen the steamer was not In Immediate
danger of sinking, they remained on
board two hours, when a sloop that
heard t ho wireless took them
The sloop. stood by the liner until
sank at 3:30 In the morning. All
crew were Hiitlsh subjects except
ltusslans and one Helglan. Sho was
armed.
had
orr.
she
the
two
tin
CONFERENCE DISCUSSES
CHANGES IN RITUAL
Hears Washington Co. Case.
Montpeller. May 10. Completing tho
Rutland lounty automobile ease, John
II. Dervln vs. Wilson H. Fienler and
Thomas Carmody, stipienie cnutt heard
Saratoga Springs, N. V May f. De- arguments this alternoon in a Washing-
bate was resumed tu-day by delegates ion coiiuiy unpen, iinani r. liicoaios
to tho general conference of the Metll-is. Consolidated Lighting company.
ndlst Kplseopil llltrch on proposed ' n. . neon aim 101111 n. noruon ap-
changes ill the ritual of the church pearcd lor the lvainuu ami is. m. uar
whlch have been submitted by a special ey for the defendant. In the lower
commission appointed four years ago. j coiut the etiso was taken uway from
Suggestions of the revision Indicated the jury anil a verdict directed for tho
some opposition over tho substitution defendant. Hlchards sued to recover
of modern language for the terms used for Injuries received while working at
by John Wesley, who wrote the form , the Lighting company's plant at the
of services when he organized the , pioneer district, Montpeller, a team
Methodist Church In l".m, based large. knocking over a ladder on which ho was
ly on the use of the American revised t standing. Tho case was tried last fall,
version of tho Hlblo Instead of tho ail- 1
thorized version in parts of tho ritual j Ulrinlngham, Ala., May 10. Pnofflcial
where scriptural selections are requli -! complete leturns to-ulght from yester
j 1 day's democratic primary gnvo Wil-
Those who have been III charge of' 11am 11. Hankhcad a majority of 1M
the revision assert that many of the i over former Hepiesontntlvo Klclim nd
so-called archaic terms now Imply a P. Hudson for tho nomination for Con
......niiiiir totally different from that gross In the 10th Alabama district
they conveyed i'OO years ago llobson, however.
The debate on the proposed cn iiige nun ny ii iniijoi uv
bcvcral , lie would contest
New York, May 10. The Progressive
party will not Insist on tlie nomination
of Theodore Hoosevelt for president of
the Fnlted Staffs, if the republicans wl.l
name a enndldatc at Chicago "who stand?
tor progressive principles and Is ablo 'o
put them through," according to a state
ment made here to-night by Georgo W
Perkins, after a meeting of tho executive
committee of the progressive national
committee,
"We of course are for Colonel Roose
velt." declared Mr. Perkins, "nnd sha'l
suggest his name to the republicans. If
they reply that they will not agree o.i
the colonel, we shall ask them to name 'is
their man. who ought to be as nearly
unnnlmous a choice as our man Is. Wo
are willing to lie leasonabln for tho sako
of harmony."
Mr. Perkins' statement supplemented a
general statement Issued by the execu
tive committee In which It was said:
"If the republican convention Is re
sponsive to tho patriotic spirit that
brought the Republican party into being
and made it dominant for half a century,
It will meet this crisis In a spirit of broad
patriotism that rises above partisanship.
Should tho elTort fall, the responsibility
for th result will not rest on the pro
gressive convention but will rest on other
shoulders than ours.
"In this turning point In world his
tory we will not stick on details. Wo will
lay aside partisanship and prejudices, but
we will never surrender the principles for
which we stand and have stood, and will
follow only a leader who, we know,
stands for them and is ablo to put thorn
through. We are for peace, hut not for
peace at any price."
It was said that tho republicans and
lndeendent voters In general had re
sponded 'itnderstandlngly to the senti
ments expressed" in the statement is
sued In January by tho progressive na
tional committee which, In effect, wa.i
an appeal for republicans and progres
sives "to get together."
It was added, however, that "there
is an element In the Republican party
leadership which seems to be giving
more thought and attention to what
that party is against, and whom it U
against, than to what it is for and
whom it is for. Therefore, wo again
call attention to our Chicago state
ment as to tho inevitable outcome of
a failure to reach a common under
standing." "Reports from the progressive or
ganization throughout the country,"
the executive committee's statement
said, "show that the American people
have become impatient of leaders who
hold that comfort, prosperity and ma
terial welfare are above honor, self
saciiflcc and patriotism; that we need
la reawakening of our elder American-
Ism, of our belief in those things that
our country and our flag stand for;
that our people are seeking a leader
ship of the highest order and most
courageous character leadership that
will draft to itself for tho country's
benefit tho unselfish and patrlotlo
service of our ablest citizens. Our
people nro demanding that principles
rind policies shall be proclaimed and
carried out by ,a man who has tho wis
dom to formulate them and tho man
hood to uphold them."
Complete delegations from every State
will attend the progiesslve national con
vention which will be held at Chicago
simultaneously with the republican na
tional convention, It was announced. A
number of states, according to the com
mitteemen, are planning to send double
delegations, allowing each delegate half
a vote. The total number of delegates
will be upwaid of l,f"V. The program for
the temporary organization of the con
vention will be announced next week.
After the foienoon session of tlie com
mittee, George W. Perkins entertained tho
members nt luncheon. Colonel Hoosevelt
was present, and sat at the head of th
table. Others attending were:
Walter F. Hrown of Ohio, Herbert
Knox Smith of Connecticut. Matthew
Halo of Massachusetts, 11. P. Gardi or of
Maine, W. D. Iwis ot Pennsylvania,
C P. Dodge of Colorado, Harold I ., ICKea
of Illinois, Henry L. Stoddard and Oscar
S. Straus or New York, William FHnn
and 11. A. Van Valkenbuig of Pennsyl
vania, and 13 F- Harris of Illinois
Is expected
days.
to continue for
show cd otherwise.
claimed the nomlna
of ii.! and ii'itiounced
If official count
HAS SiiO.OOO CAPITAL.
Ilimliinil Pulp nnd l'npcr Anxneliiilon
IIiin Four Incorporators,
Montpeller, May 10.-Incorporated with
capital stock of $W,0i divided Into 500
sharer, tho How land Pulp and Paper as
sociation of Hrattlebnro has filed articles
ot association with the secretary of stnto.
Tho articles specify that tho corporation
may carry on a business as pulp nnl
paper manufacturer, deal in general mer
chandise, buy, own, sell nnd develop
water powers, to engage In any manu
facturing, mining or construction biisl.
ness and to carry on such business, in anv
Stato or teuitory of the Fnlted States
The principal olllco will be at Hrattloborn
and three of the four incorporators,
Charles G Staples, II. K. Kddy, and H F
Whitney aie of that 'town, the fourth be
ing A, M. lilaudlii of Path, N, II.
