I
^ r~
-I Ma I Yonr Ad* In TWs P?P?r
Oar Advertisers Kcach m H | $* I |
M I II | - Will Bring Business to too that now
Every Corner of the Town and Country H a . ^ A ^ a ^ ^ ^ I ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
?-- VLncratu Viluiiuinr
Volume 20 CHERAW, CHESTERFIELD COUNTY, S. C., MAY 11, 1916 Number 28
6ERMAN EMPEROR
SEEKING PEACE
HOPES FOR EARLY PEACE
Information Obtained From Circular
Issued by German Humanity
League?Kings in Rome.
London, May 8.?The correspondent
at Rotterdam, of the Exchange 'leiegraph
Compayy, cabled the following
today:
"On the occasion of the Easter festival,
Emperor William sent an autograph
letter to Pope e lined ict and expressed
the hope that the Pout ill", with
|he King of Spaiu, would be able 'ta
instruct a scheme with the object of
bringing together, under the auspices
emblem of the dove aud olive branch, u
coDfereuee of belligerents for consider
gtion or au wimeuuue urmisuce?1?
the fervent hope of securing an early
peace without detriment to the legitimate
aspirations of nationalities.''
Event of Significance.
The correspondent says he obtained
this information from a circular just
issued by the German Humanity
League. The circular also says considerable
significance is attached to the
prrival in Rome of envoys from the
klkngs of Bavaria and Saxony, who
had prolonged audiences with Cardinal
Oasparri, Papal Secretary of State.
MTEE.T FOR TRAINING IN ART OF
SOLDIER
Fort Oglethorpe, Ga., May 4.?Two
hundred and fifty business and pro.
fesaional einn whose residence range
from New England to the Mexican
border were tranformed into khakiclad
citizen soldiery at the Southern
military training camp which opened
here yesterday.
Tonight a hundred campfires lighted
the north slope of Snodgrass hill,
"Where 58 years ago was fought one
of thfe sanguinary battles of the War
Betwiwn the Sections. Two coluins,
one of the regular army detachment
of 700 men and the other a battalion
of miitary students commanded by
yjyt artUInrv ?nd_ceva1rv captain0.
came together for the first time under
a tent to hear the opening lecture by
Lieut Col. D. \\\ Ketcham, training
camp commander, and an address by
Capt. GQordon Johnson, aide de camp
to Maj. Gen Lenoard Wood. Objects,
plans and rules of the training
course were explained.
Massachusetts, New York aud Pennsylvania
sent a majority of the applicants
for military traning.
The first class enrolled will particape
in the manoeuvres until June
3. Capt. Johnston said it was the ob4aa*
a# 4Ra n.QP /lonartmonf t n nrtrfllli/n
jcwb VI iuo n Mi uvy?? HHV41W v.w v40v?...?v
other classes so that the training work
might be continued all summer.
ONE MEASURE COVERS ALL Silll'.
PINO BILLS
Washington, May 7.?Various administration
shipping bills, combined
into one measure and amended so
that Democratic leaders believe it will
enlist the united support ol' their
party members and possibly some Republicans,
will be introduced in the
house May 8 by Chairman Alexander
of the mechant marine committee.
It will be referred to t:ie cmumittee
and reported Lack Tuesday.
By limiting the government ope.
tion of vessels to tive years after tl.
close of the European war tin committee
had won over Majority i.<-au-r
Kitchin and other influential Democrats.
Mr. Kitchin tonight anu-> iu'.;l
bis complete satisfaction with the bill,
promised to take tae llloor in iavoi m
iV and predicted its passag". ^ltit
owners, who have made a hard light
in the committee agaiust "the government
going into business by operating
ships" also have expressed tliem
selves as pleased over this important
I Utftllgv.
The bill is destined to meet will
uiore favor in the senate than die
the ship purchase measure last ses
slon, which was filibustered to deatl
by a group of Democrats who joiuet
with the Republican minority. 'Ik.en
are at least three new Democratic sea
ators who will support the ukumiv.
aud the dissenting Democrats <d tin
last session will nut be able to bloci
the bill should they decide to oppo-a
it.
Pollock Urged As President <?f '?'!?
Slate Convention
Columbia, May 0.?Friends of \\. i1
Pollock, of Cbernw, from several part
of the state will urge his ele?ii..n a
president of the Democratic stale eon
ventlou which meets here next week
Mr. Pollock Is not a candidate for an;
office this year, notwithstanding tin
fact that a great deal of pressure ha
I boon brought to bear upon him t<> off*W
tor attorney general. However, he ha:
Linade.lt plain that he will not be ii
Ui? race.
! STATU CONVENTION TO
MEET NEXT WEEK
, Democratic Body Will Discuss Biennial
"Circus," Woman Suffrage, Woodrow
Wilson's l'olicy and Other
Live Topics?Reports of Various
('unity Conventions Are Analycd.
Xiuciy-cight delegates to tlio State
.! com cation, May IV, will eouie either
'dircctiy instructed or intereutially
picd^cd to oppose any measure tending
lo uboiish me county-to-coputy cun\a>s
oj the candidates for State ofiiccs,
accoiouig to a study of the reports
vl the various county convention*
hejvl throughout the State May 1.
Uie agitation agmst the 'biennial
circus' has been especially noticeable
1 in Uie last two years and one delegation
icoin Ciieeuwood, consisting of
eight men, were instructed by their oonve.iiioii
lo institute and light for a resolution
doing away with the campaign.
iiiis Will probably be the most
, important mailer to come before the
Suuo i >emocralic convention tins year.
Petitions m favor of woiuau suffrage
will likely lie presented.
I ineiv win lie .'ids delegates to the
loineiiiiOii, two more than formerly
iui aaeouut ui' the new county of AlcCormrc
i, which will have a representation
>>i four, while Abbeville county,
ioimec.x having eight, will have only
six delegates. The number of delegates
lroni ail other counties remains
the same, being twice the county's
representation in the general assemI
My.
Beaufort county will probably
send a contested delegation, as one faction
bolted during the recent convention.
Beaufort will also attempt to
jliave tlio convention adopt :i rule placing
municipal primaries uuder the super
vision of the State machinery. A
recent electiou in Reaufort is the direct
cause of the movement for protection.
Minor cliunge* in the rules
will ji:m? he considered by the body,
us .suggested at the recent meeting of
the state executive committee.
XewspaiK-r accounts jilso show the
following: The administration of
Gov. Manning was commended in whole
ar tn.yi.rt he Surnriv. Rg"'l.p"~ Rpci;
t'orj, and Kershaw counties, the delegation
in the last heiug all Manning
men. Anti-JLilease forces won the convention
in l.arnwell. Supporters of
Former Gov. Rloase carried tlie contentions
in Anderson and Newberry.
McCorinick county showed an antiManning
sentiment. In the Chester
convention a resolution commending
the State administration was not voted
on because of a motion to adjourn. A
woman suffrage resolution in the Richcounty
convention met the same fate.
Hearty and ringing indorsements of
the administration <>f President Woodrow
Wilson and recommending his relioiiiiiiatioii
by tlie J?emocr?tic party
were adopted in ill colunties; no mention
of sii< ii action by the county convention
was made iu the reports from
Charleston. l>il!on and Chesterfield.
A further analysis of the attitude
twnard the county-to-county canvass
shows: That there will he OS delegates
favoring its continuance, 30 ojv
Im.mmI, uuiiistructed, 12 seeking an
,!i i'Iik ill. I I wi-uimg jo Miinuu in*.<iu?-li?in
in a primary t<i I lie voters of
ilit* Slate. I'loin r.i counties, in which
tho iiiicsiioii was not brought up for
lis-uw-ie;. there will In? 150 delegates;
villi the- however, the probability is
h. i He ? ill vote to retain the canv::
. - they have ivd no instructions
from "the people."
< i \ ' ! \ \ 5 iis>i;s
l> VI'lllL* 01.102
> lie. >iav 10. Ari official liritii
c: i ii*i.te of German casualties in
1 hi'i!. i. <1 here today, places the
total < '!. Tile nnioher of Ger
I :.i; -ince the beginning of
ar j: pi-.en as 2 K22,?79. These
h. : s .<r given in the following
t- statement:
'German i usual!bs: Inclusive of
i < .rre i ions, wt re reported during the
i month <-f April. I hi (J. as follows: Kill
oil or died .a wounds. 17,455; died of
1 i-irhn. prisoners, 1.921; missi
in: w'iT, severely woiiudod. 1 ^.557;
; oo|; slightly wounded.
< ' UKled remaining with
1 units. 7 total. tt),lt)2.
T . added to those reported in
v tea' i ;?oiie iu German official
i: tie beginning of Hie war
i io:
!\ 11**i o1' i!ii -l of wounds M 1.552;
# di.'d "f :;i..T25; prisoners
i::."7?in- mi- >ino. l'.lT.hfM: sevorl.V
. I I'J: wmniiirti remain_
w 11 it liiiiK, nT.or,?;. 'j'<?ti?I. -.si'ii. 'I'if?
!i.'ii!cs iii?-!u?i'll iSenium
- Natii>n:ilii:< < l'ru?dans. I'.ovarium?,
- mid \\ iirllemheruei's. Thl'J" do
. i iii'-ImN' nnv.-il or -<>1 wii:iI troops."
It is estimated that over 13,000,000
- automobile tires are consumed iu a
r > -ar. Of t!:is number, despite the
s iose to 2ou tire makers now in ex
| istenco , the Goodrich factories in
.ilOl") produced uearly 3,000,000.
'SCOTT REPORT AGREED TO BY
WILSON
j Said to Provide for Use of Mexican
Railways?No Time Set for Withdrawal
of .Ymerican Troops.
Washington, May 4.?The American
J government is ready to accept, in its
main points, the agreement lor ttie iuture
pursuit of Villa and Lis bandits
drawn up by (Jen. Ubregon and Geu.
Scott. This was decided at a conference
today beteen President Wilson
and Secretary Baker.
.Formal anuouuceinent of tbe position
of the American government will
not be given out until Gen. Carranza
I Las Lad opportunity to puss 011 tlie
reiHirt submitted to him by Gen. Ubregon.
As soon as that is doue another
conference between Gen. Ubregon
ami Gen. Scott will be held ou the
border and the negotiations will be
formally concluded. Ufficials here
take it for granted that Geu. Ubregon
would not Lave made au agreement I
which would not have been accepted
by his chief.
The agreement provides for the co- j
operation of American troops and Car- j
runzu soldiers in clearing northern '
j Mexico of bandits. Mexican railroads j
will be utlized for the transportation
of supplies for the American troops.
While 110 time limit is set for the with- j
drawal from Mexico that will be dc~ * 1
as soon as there are delitiite indications
that American border towns are
jio longer in danger of raids.
Secretary Baker and President Wilson
reviewed the agreement at Ingth
today and Secretary Baker sent a message
to Gen. Scott on the future conduct
of the uegoatious.
/\lV!/.lnln /.horoitifiri7n<l Mm ilfTl'PA.
4 V/UIV. Iftlil ?."V ~
meut us "satisfactory," but would not
state whether every detail was acceptable.
When the negotiations are ended
President Wilson probably will make
a stnteement
WILSON INFORMS GERMANY RELATIONS
WILL CONTINUE
But They Depend on Submariue Commanders
Obeying Instructions?
frtTtTian" Cnn't flirt Via 6i4Q tlfliaT M
Matters.
Washington, May is.?A note to Germany
practically has been completed
und probably will go forward to Berlin
today. It will be made public soon
afterward. It is understood it would
be brief, informing Germany that as
long us the new instructions to submarine
commanders are observed, diplomatic
relations will be continued, but
that the United States* can not allow j
Germany to dictate its negotiations;
with Great Britain.
The president worked <m the pro- j
posed communication early today after f
his conference with Secretary Lansing j
last night. It is understood officials I
are so far agreed on the policy to be j
pursued that it will not bo necessary |
to wait for the cabinet meeting to- j
morrow.
While the German note lias a\erted.
for the present at least, a break in dip- j
lumutic relations, it was said today that!'
the president was not satisfied with the :
1:.........l. ...i |.t.
;tx?i*;i it/ui iuuiv-nvu ?v VIVI i
inaiiy. The tuited State* stands by !
its demand that Germany cease her at-j
tacks en vessels in violation of international
law regardless of negotiations j
which may be carried on with Great
l'ritoin over the food blockade. Some
of the president's advisers wanted him I
to make no reply to the Germany note]
and only wait developments, but he is!
understood to have to send the com-j
nmnimtion.
IWTHH K >jK>YS ITEMS
Airs. Annie ICatman. ot Uuihuni,
is visiting relatives in town.
-Mr. S. .). Sellers, of Kuby, was in
i'atrick last Friday.
Mrs. John A. Winbiirn, who lias
been visiting at the home of her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. 1\ li. Treaty,!
near Cheraw, returned home Monday.
Mr. J. H. Scott is spending several
days in Carthago, N. C.
Rev. J. I). Harrelson will assist Rev.
\V. V. Jerman in a meeting at St. Mary
church, beginning Thursday night and
will continue several days.
Rev. \\\ V. Jerman returned Friday
from Lydia, where he had been attending
the district conference.
While the family were attending
church Sunday morning, the dwplliug
house of Mr. J. it. Griggs was discovered
on tire, which was soon
burned to the ground, together with
all his household goods, nothing being
saved but some meat and lard and a
little Hour, which were taken from
the smoke house before it was burned.
Mr. Griggs is a prosperous farmer,
living five miles south of Patrick, and
his friends and neighbors sympathise
with him in his loss.
Rev. B. 1). Thames and family left
Tuesday in their automobile for a
three or fou weeks vis* to ;
home in Virginia
JNO. L M'LAdllN
. IN WE RACE j
PROBABLY FOB fOVERNOK ^
In Defence of tbe Stme Warehouse it
System, According to he
Banks. J co
A* ST
Columbia May 6.?Alliberal inter- ^e
pretation of the languAe of Senator ca
J. A. Hanks of St. Matt! msf president wl
of the South Carolina^ Warehouse as- 80
sociation, in a statemec issued today,
may mean that the war* toueemen may
yet enter Commisaione: ^ John L. Mc- a<*
Laurin in the race for g ivernor should
the state Democratic < intention fail Ql
to give Mr. McLaurin ithe hour demanded
for him at eadb of the campaign
meetings this summer.
In case the state convention failed to
itu nunv vr vuuniumeu a ^
very reasonable request" said Senator
Banks, "then, as presi^efit, I was to
call the association to ether to take
such action as might b< deemed advis ,
. . ... . .. no
able to get before the people."
Senator Banks says that Commissiouer
McLaurin only nade a tenta- ja
live announcement for lentenant governor,
based on what he state con- su
vention will do at Its neeting on May
17; thai it was not.t e Idea of the )(V
association to nut a mfca in the field '
*'i t 1)0
for political preferment, .should an 1(li
opening be given "for th i waging of an (>o
educative campaign be are the people
in the interest of the J timer partlcu- <>u
larly, Senator McLad* a In a minor !
capacity, / ho
The secret part of me meeting of
warehousemen WedneAay seems to
no inviolabley guardedfby "those who
attended; but it Is certain, however,
that the other action besides that giv- 1
en out by the secretary of -the associ-fcai
ation was taken.- Hoy Car it affects pa
the political situation t not known to
the public. But a coirect- inference, eri
deduced from the utterances of those tbt
attending the conferebhe, Is tfoat the th<
warehouse association twill put out a ext
HaUtura^^^nth^^lSouth ^Caro- wa
Una electorate. wo
John K. Aull, secretary of the asso- to
ciation, said this morning that a full Go
stoxnographic report of the proceed- by
ings was taking and that it might be tot
made public at a future date, as op- ini
portunity may arise.
Action Taken on Insurance. St
It is known that some action was ve
i_ i it.. i .2i 11.. U..4 .
iaKC'11 ou iuo insurance suuauuii, uut cit
jusi what lias been veiled in secrecy, th
That whatever action was decided on ac
in the resolution that is known to tei
have been adopted must have been th
important, for Wednesday morning^ co
prior to the gathering of warehouse- pr
men. Solicitor J. K. Henry, of Chester, ag
Senator J. A. Banks, Commissioner uli
McLaurin and other warehouse lead- mi
ers, were in a prolonged conference. Gc
Solicitor Henry has drawn many of inj
t-.ie bills that have enacted into law ^1
the various features of the state no
warehouse system, and it is known fo;
that lie was one of the commissioner's
most valued advisers. It is thought ja
that some crucial action regarding c0
the insurance situation was taken at ad
t..o morning conference, which later fa(
was endorsed by the association at ail
its meeting, it is noted, however, that ag
Solicitor Henry did not sign the Dabbs ev
petition to the state convention. otThe
almost positive information that py
tiic warehouse convention decided to th
put a legislative slate in the field gives 0[
rise to the supposition that Solicitor pr
iK-nry was engaged in drawing up
bills relative to the insurance situa- aD
i ion for adoption by the convention pi;
ami discussion in the state campaign gc
and in the county canvass. It is pre- ki
biciicd that these supposed bills wii. jn
bo ilie nucleus of a fight for the legis- by
later*. and it' the warehousemen win jn
tin- general assembly that the pro- ba
grain will bo pushed through. What p(
this alleged insurance program 1b q<
not known; it may be state insurance, pr
but there are some that do not think be
the warehouse association would com- tr
mil itself to such a radical procedure.
What Banks Says. G<
Senator J. Arthur Banks, president mi
of the South Carolina Warehouse as- tr;
, sociation, iu discussing today the by
'meeting of the association held on Qe
Wednesday afternoon, said that toe in,
newspapers, as evidenced by their m)
headlines, had not seemed to grasp th
the situation accurately. ' in
"Senator McLaurin's addrees," he
said, "followed the speech made by tjt
Mr. w. A. Stuckey in advocacy of a [^
campaign of education this summer.'tic
; Senator McLaurin stated that he was q<
! willing to make almost any sacrifice
j except to put himself in jthe position
f seeming to use the wafehouse sys-'bi
tem to gratify his ambitious or to pro-'j8
jmote his personal interests, but that'll
'he was willing, if there was no other
i way to do it, to enter the ' ace for !ag
lieutenant governor, on the batls'^t]
which was stated in the paper. Im? an
i
1
ediately there were objections from ^
embers of the association that they
ere not willing for a man of Mr. Motrin's
caliber to make the sacrifice
running for a minor office, and that
1 we wanted was an opportunity to
s heard. Then caime the resolution t
' Mr. W. E. Dabbs, requesting time *
om the state convention, and it was t
e understanding of all present that e
was a request for the farmers to be e
ard through their state warehouse r
mmissioner, and that if this was f
anted it was unnecessary for him to E
come a candidate for any office. In E
se the convention failed to comply R
th what we considered a very rea- t
nable request, then as president I *
is to call the association together b
take such action as might be deemed
visable to get before the people." *
______ n
f
UEZON DESPAIRS ,.
OF INDEPENDENCE t<
fc
Washington, May 8.?Manuel (jue- tl
n, Philippine commissioner, who has G
en urging Phllli] pine independence, a
Id President Wilson today that he ?
id his followers had .abandoned the ( '
ea of freedom in the near future and b
?ped congress would pass the house
II giving a greater share of self gov- a
nment tcv the islands, but setting no r
:te for independence. si
Mr. Quezon urged the president to u
pport the house bill and not insist ri
ion the Clarke ameudment approved si
the senate which would give inde- o
ndeuce by 1920. T. R. Yango, pres- D
ent of the Pbllllppine chamber of ti
mmerce, saw the president with Mr. P
lezon. The whole question was dls- ?
ssed at length and the president u<
omiscd to consult with the senate and w
use leaders. w
P
A Disingenious Plea* ^
a
In the German reply to the Ameri- a
a note of April 18 there occurs this u
ssage: a,
'As matters stand the German Govuuent
cannot but reiterate regret ^
it the sentiments of humanity which c<
j Government of the United States &
lends with such fervor to the un- nc
ppy victims of submarine warfare fi
} not extended with the same si
rmth of feeling to many millions of d
iinen and children who, according *
the avowed intention 01 me mmou u
vernment, shall be starved and who a
their sufferings shall force the vie- w
ious armieB of the Central Powers tl
to ignominous capitulation." !>
lu the sharp criticism of the United
ates contained in this passage is re- A
aled one of the fundamental falla- b
;s of the German point of view tl
roughout this controversy. We are'<
cused of hypocracy in that we pro- sl
st upon grounds of humanity against P
e slaughter of neutrals and non- f;
mb at ants by submarines and do not at
otest upon grounds of humanity bl
ainst the attempt to starve the popations
of the Central Powers by
?aus of a blockade. The German U1
>vernment knows that this is a disunions
plea and that on the ground p
lion it sets forth it has absolutely
i right to complain of the course (
llowed by the United Stages.
There is absolutely no warrant in;
w upon which the United States, 11
uld protest against the British block ^
e on the ground of inhumanity. The; 1
ct that the process causes suffering! u
d distress among civilians of all jlj
:es and sexes has no bearing whatso-:u
er upon the legality of the process I(
reducing a country or a community.
' shutting off its supplies. Indeed, |1
e effectiveness of the process is one ""
the tests of its legality. As for b
ecedents, 'history is full of them,
le Federal Government proclaimed
id carried out a blockade the avowed
irpose of which was to reduce the e
iuth by cutting off its supplies of all s
nds, including food. The Germans *
the Franco-Prussian war took Paris ^
r shutting off its supplies and reducg
its population, including non-coiu.tants,
women, and children, prac.
ideral blockade of the South nor the ^
;rman investment of Paris could be
otested against on grounds of law ^
cause it caused suffering and die- A
ess among civilians.
What the British are tryiug to do to ?
irmany is precisely what the Ger- *
ins actually did to Paris?they are
ping to make their enemy aurrender ^
shutting off his supplies. When the u
jrman Government seeks to give the ^
Lpression that unprecedented inhumity
chartcterizes the purpose of G
e Britir.h blockade, it Is simply mak- u
g "a pla yto ihc galler.es." for it t
iows oerfectly we'l that the reduc- h
>n of cities and countries by shut- ?
ig off their supplies has been prac- u
:ed for centuries. When the German ^
jvernment criticises the United 0
ates because it has not protested tl
;ainst the purpose of the British a
ockade on grounds of humanity, it p
indulging in pure demagogy. It &
lows that, we have no more right to
she such a test on humane grounds
;ainst the action of Germany in e
arving Paris into submission.?News j
id Courier. j,
v rji-..
AMERICAN INGENUITY IS PROV-'l
ING SUPERIOR TO EUROPEAN |
EXPERIENCE IN MANAGING
WAR TRUCKS
"Extremes in daily teini>erature make |
ravel by motor truck over the barren ;
vastes of northern Mexico a hardship i
0 American drivers engaged in Geu>ral
Pershing's Villa-hunt. Following i
1 day of scorching heat will come a 1
light of chills and frost. It is common
or drivers to postpone advances in the [
aorniug until the sun's warmth has
netted the ice in the radiator. Despite
ueh kaudlcaps, the mauuer in which >
he more than 300 American-made miw j
or trucks are being managed is a tri- ^
ute to American ingenuity." \
Such is the word brought back from t
be Mexican border by A. H. Leavitt, t
ssistant manager of truck tire sales
or The B. F. Goodrich Company, Ak(Mi.
Ohio, who returned this week af- t
?r an Interesting stay with the army ^
irces at Columbus, S. M. He was i
bere to assist in the opening of a new y
Jbodrich truck tire distributing store, u
s a convenience to the government in s
pairing quick service in tire renewals. e
l. K. Serfass, Goodrich service man, r
i stationed at Columbus.
"I had an opportunity to talk with i
number of well known newspaper cor- u
espondents while \ .in Columbus," a
tates Mr. Leavltt, "writers who had g
lade close observation on various Euopean
battlegrounds before being asgned
to the Mexican border. With 0
ut exception, they declared that the a
Fnited States army is handling motor &
rucks far more efficiently than the 0
tritish, French and German field fore- ^
9. Uncle Sam's men are doing this a
espite their comparative inexperience tj
'ith motor trucks adapted to actual x
ar conditions. For years the Euro- d(
ean armies have learned to. rely on g
lotor trucks as important war aids. s
;ut, according to the newspaper meu c
t the border, the American trait of e
Iterness in rising to the emergency is
inking up for lack of experience and
dvance planning.
"In Europe the road conditions for
tutor trucks are most ideal. In Mexi- ^
3 the truck trains that have penetrat- L
1 the interior for a distance of 400
files and more, huve encountered difculties
that are most extreme In hard- ^
bip, both to truck equipment and
rivers. The best roads over the dc- t
?rts. hills and mountains are nothing y
lore than uneven trails, and there is ^
stretch of 75 miles followed by the
ar trucks that must be followed over
lie hardest, most non-resisting lava
eds. J"
"(ireat credit is due the various
Linerican truck manufacturers who {
ave put patriotism above dollars in
leir efforts to make the motor-truck
c
xpeoition of the nvuiy into Mexico a ^
access. They have sent the most ex0
ert drivers and mechanics from their
letories for service at the front; and
, ElPaso, Columbus and other assem- g
ing points, have established stock ^
jpots to furnish parts with no more ^
ilay than if the trucks were driving
? to the factory door."
ERSHING'S FORCE HAS KILLED
ABOUT 125 MEXIC BANDITS
Field Headquarters, May 8.? (By j
lotor truck to Columbus, N. M., May t]
1?The punitive exi>editioii uuder L,
Irigadier-Ueneral J. J. Pershing has (J
ccouuted to dute for about 125 Villa j
audits slain aud between 2U0 and oUd s
ounded. Meanwhile the Americans ;1
>st six killed, a ratio of twenty banits
sluin for every Americau life lost. j
n wounded the bandits have suffered (
hirty casualties for every American ?
it by a bullet t
While the expeditionary forces Jiuve f
lot lost one oflieer, the Villa bands .,
inve had half a dozen of their lead- r
r< u-illPfl. The simiilicauce of this i
howiug was that it was made against (
ome of the most desperate lighters s
a Mexico, men whose reputations |
uve ranked high umoug the military .,
len produced by live years of Mexican v
evolution. t
More important than the number of t
audits killed has been their complete
3SS of morale. Nowhere will they v
taud uuy longer to light Americans. c
l few shots from advantageous ground i,
nd the bandits run, abuudouiug their a
ood positions before the Americans s
re on equal terms. I,
Men here today from the Temochic t
ght, the lust the Americans have had t,
p to this date, said that in order to p
;et Caudlario Cervantes' bandits to a
ght at all it was necessary for Col. t
leorge A. Dodd, the American com- p
lander, to lead his men Into a posi- p
ion where the Villa forces ought to t
ave had all the best of the strategic f
round. These bandits, however, h
mreover. were not outnumbered and
heir horses were fresher than those ()
f their pursuers. With all the advau- p
age of position, Cervantes' men quit ii
a flivin n? nlehf fell. Knowinc that ,>
" ?? ?O-" o V
ursuit in the darknese was not possi- li
le. Col. Dodd held his men on the com- e
?~ c
J. E. Sweringen, State superintendnt
of education, is to be married in
une to Miss Mary Hough, the wed- p
ag to take place In Greenville. p
WIRELESS WORKS
WITH SUCCESS
DANIELS USES PHONE
liuerican Telephone & Telegraph Co.
Have Labored Mure Ihan lear
On feature.
Wasnlugtou, May, 7.?A working
;ystem of wire ami wireless comrnulicatiou,
said by Aruiy aad Navy ex>erts
to be uiieyuuled by tliut of any
tiler Nation, was effected Saturday by
lie Navy Department us au adjuuct
o the preparedness program.
1 allied With Warship.
It was inaugurated by a wireless
elephone conversation?the tirst of its
.iud ever held?during which Secreary
L?aniels?seutcd at his desk in the
iavy Department?gave instructions to
. commander on the bridge of a warhip
operating against a theoretical
neiny far oil' the Virginia capes, and
eceived reports from him.
Simultaneously oilier uiliciala of the
Jepartment were iu telephone comlunicutiou
with all the Navy yards
tid stations in continental United
tates.
A Thorough Success.
The plun represents more than a year
f continued labor by navul officers
ud experts of the American Telephone
: Telegraph Co., who have been coperuting
with the Department. It was
renounced a thorough success this
fternoon. Tests of the plan will couinue,
however, until S o'clock Monday
morning. All business between the
epariment and stations in the United ,
tutes and the battleship New Hamphire,
used for the wireless telephone
owwuuication, is being conducted
ither by telegraph or telephone wiretss
until that time.
Danieis Uses Telephone.
Secretary Daniels was the first to
onverse with Captain Chandler of the
ew Hampshire. He told the captain
o get under way by 1U o'clock Sunday,
ud talk to the Department again then.
it will not be very long before the -2
tecn?tary of the can-sit in -Mt* ? '
iiii-o hi the Department," Mr. Daniels
old the captain, "and communicate
erbally with the ships ull over the
orld. , ?
Across the Continent,
ltear Admiral Benson then talked to
laptaiu Chandler as did ltear Admiral
ladger, retired, and several others.
Tho naval station at l'ensacola was
he lirst of the shore buses with which
omuiuication was established. Other
ounections were made with Great
,ake, Illinois, station in 32 1-2 secuds,
the New York Navy Yard in 27.
ecouds, with Norfolk in 41 seconds.
>nly a few seconds more were requird
to connect with the station at ban
iiego, Cal., from which point Admiral
'ullain, commanding the Pacific reerve
fleet, talked to becreary Daniels.
THE WAREHOUSE
1
rorkville Enquirer:
There are very fen individuals of
utelligence in South Carolina who
lave not been able to appreciate the
cccts of the state warehouse system
u economic conditions; but it is largey
a guestlon of viewpoint and circumtanees
as to whether those effects are
pprovod or disapproved.
As we see it, we do not think that
hero is any doubt about the fact that
he state warehouse system has been a
nost potent influence in balding up the
rice of cotton. We are aware of the
act that the state system affords only
i small portion of the cotton storage
com in the south, ami also that warelouses
generally are affording pracirally
ail of the advantages of the
late warehouse. We are aware, too,
hut many people are using this as an
irginneiit against the need for the state
vnrehouse: but we happen to know
bat it bus brought about the advanaires
would not have been realized.
We have n<> way to prove it; but
re think it stands t<? reason that crept
for southern warehouse facilities,
uclc up by regional reserve money,
vailable to everybody, and cheaper innranee,
the price of eottou would have
ecu ruling much lower in the south
han it has duled. We are aware that
any people have carried cotton since
i*t fall without seeing selling prices
dvnnce much over what they were
hen; luit we think that most of these
eople aiv able to comprehend what
- ? ' ? ~ ? ? i-i. U-J .11
:ivtr> \>uum imvc iit-ii 11 uiey uau au
rie<l to sell last fall, and if so they can
i?rni an Men of what prices would
ave been now.
There is no doubt about the fact lu
ur opinion, that the warehouse has
ut cotton producers in a much more
ndependent position than they have
vor ben befor. The result of this
ias bon to the very {neat benefit of
otton producers generally and to the
oiintry as a whole.
M
Paris. May 8.?Two German aero I
lanes were shot down in the Verdun
tegon today.
' " %
f
