c
ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Four Pages.
FOUSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 101(5.
Vol. 'Jt. No. I'll.
Washington Letter
I Ki-om Our K 'KiiliirC'h ri siiimili'iit.i
The Republican Nomination:
Certain well-meaning Democrats pro
(ess to be seriously concerned regard
ing the uncertainty which prevails as to
whom the Republican National Con
vention will select as its standard-bearer
just a month hence. It is note
worthy, however, that this anxiety is
confined almost entirely to Democrats
The Republican leaders are expressing
no anxiety. They regard the position
of the party as entirely encouraging.
A large number ol delegates have been
chosen, there are many favorite sons,
in the field, there is an abundance of
enthusiasm and complete unity of
sentiment on essentials. The attitude
of the vast majority of Republicans was
well expressed recently by Senator
Lodge, one of the uninstructed dele
gates-at-large from Massachusetts
Mr. Lodge said: "Let us one and all
address ourselves to securing the nomi
nation of a candidate for the Presi
dency who is most certain to unite all
who are opposed to the present Ad
ministration and to an assured and
complete victory; a candidate who will
fully represent Republican principles,
of national defense, of the protection
of American rights everywhere, of the
restoration of the influence and stand
ing of the United States among the
nations of the earth, of the protective
tariff, of economic stability and of jus
lice to business and industrial interests
of the country and of those do
mestic policies of which the Republi
can party has long beeu the exponent."
everything points to united action ac
tuated by the single purpose of, a.
Mr. Lodge puts it, "driving from
power the present Administration which
has been so injurious.to our welfare at
home and so destructive to our influ
ence abroad."
Ohio s kei'Ublicanism: ne
strength of Ohio's Republicanism and
the length and breadth of President
Wilson's unpopularity in the buckeye
State have proved an occasion of the
greatest surprise and discouragement
to the Democrats, so much so that the
members of the Democratic State Or
ganization admit their fear that they
will be able to save nothing from the
wreck of their hopes next November.
With the returns in from something
over three-fourths of the primary dis
tricts, it is shown that Senator Pome
rene, Democratic candidate for reelec
tion has fallen about 14,000 votes be
hind former Governor Cox, about
9,000 votes behind former Governor
Harmon and nearly 8,000 votes behind
former Governor Campbell. Further
more, out of about 86,000 votes cast
for Democratic delegates, Frank Mon
nett, who made his race on his opposi
tion to Woodrow Wilson and his Ad
ministration, polled nearly 25,000. It
has been knwn for some time that
most of the Ohio Democrats who
made the fight for Woodrow Wilson in
1912 have become hostile to him and
the primary election it was noteworthy
that the vote for Monnett was heaviest
in those districts where Wilson once
was strongest, but even the most pes
simistic Democrats expected no such
showing as actually occurred. Indeed
no Republican had accurately gauged
the extent of the silent, but not less
effective, opposition which Mr. Wilson
and his Administration have engen
dered amongst those who only four
vears aeo idealized Mr. Wilson and
looked forward to his Administration
with the most pleasurable expectation
In the light of these developments,
the most sanguine Democrats now
hope only to reproduce the situation
of 1908, when Taft carried the State
but a Democrat was chosen Governor
DEMOCRATS FUTILE EXPLANA
TIONS: What the Democratic party
needs at the present time, and need
most urgently, is an explana'ion clerk
The general public is developing
a very irrirating curiosity a to the way
in which the promises of 1912 and 1913
which were made by the Democratic
party have been carried out. It is
curosity of a persistent kind which is
extremely annoying in a Presidential
year. The party will have to submit
a reckoning during the coming months
but, in the meantime, it is trying to
fix the books. The first nine months
of the Underwood Tariff demonstrated
conclusively the absolute failure of
that measure as a revenue producer,
and the war with its nullifying effect
was a piece of good foitune to the
Democrats They were enabled to re
duce their deficits by a so-called war
tax, and they have since explained this
war tax on the ground that imports
are limited. That explanation is now
somewhat frayed in view of the fact
that in January the imports to this
country were the highest in its history
and it is also significant of the actual
effect of the Undrwood Tariff to
know that duty was collected only
about 9 per cent of the goods impor
ted thus we see 91 per cent of our
imports coming in free, and still from a
revenue"raising point of view the Un
derwood Tariff is supposed to be effec
tive. The war tax would never have
been necessary under a republican tar
iff measure, and the war tax has been
not only a nuisance but a direct im
position, entirely unneccessary tax is
well understood by Democratic poli
ticians, and for that reason it is pro
posed now, just before a Presidential
election, to reptal the stamp tax and
as much of the war tax as possible, in
democratic," reads the resolution.
When was it tried in this country? It
seems to be doing effective work in
foreign countries, nearly everyone of
which has aided its merchant marine
in one way or another. Tee trouble
with the Democratic party is that the
problems which are arising today are
entirely too big for that party to handle,
hence its bind floundering.
ence between their promises and their
performances, but it is an impossible
proposition.
Increasing imports-Decreasing Revenue
The statistics for the eight month end
ed February, 1916, show that foreignr
ers sent to our market nearly one mil
lion dollars worth of goods daily more
than came in for the some period end
ed February, 1915, also under the
Democratic tariff law. During the
1916 period we imported 81,291,000,-
000 worth of goods. During the 191i i eue o refenl appointment, Senator
period we imported 51,056,000,000 "Xom" Taggart, and Representative
worth of goods, or 8235,000,000 less, j , w Adair w!l0 js the Demo-
During the period ended February crxtjc canciitiate for governor of Iniliana
1913, under Republican law, the value al (he com;llg election, have recently
of our imports was 81.246,000,000, or beeQ in intiiana, where they attended
?45, 000,000 less than the period just the slate convCntion of their party
past. But the world was then at peace u tnee are candidates for reelection
and the goods that came in under the ch0ice of two senators being due
Republican law produced a revenue t0 llie recent death of Senator Shively.
whkh enabled us to run the Govern- Tl was ncl a nappy trio that set out, or
ment efficiently and give us a good Whjch returned. It is stated that they
Heard at the National Capitol
Senator John W. Kern and his col-
surplus. We took in customs reve
nues for the amount ol about 223,00-
0,000. During the eight months end
ed February, 1916, the customs rev
enues fell to 8132,000,000, or $91,-
000,000 less than under Republican
law although imports were considerably
greater. Mr. Underwood declared
that his bills provideu rates of duty
which would create active competition
of foreign with American made goods
thn hope that the people may lorget j anQ wnich would so encourage impor
thi unneccessary tax imposed on : tatinn that we would have ample reve-
t! em because of the failure of the Un-! nue. See how it worked out. We
derwood Tariff law as a revenue raiser.
Let no one be deceived with regud
to the repeal of the stamp tax. It is
repealed only because this is 1916, a
realize that the voters of Indiana have
had enough of Democracy and that all
are extremely anxious over the situ
ation. The positive indications that
Indiana is to return to the Republican
column has not only given these can
didates, but also the Democratic mem
bers of Coneress from that state, a
political chill
'I confess I am somewhat surprised
to see some of our New England com
mercisl bodies endorsing the so called
Rainey tariff commission bill, which
i the administration measure," said
arc (TpttincT the ponds, but not the
revenue. Mr. Underwoods theory was Congressman C A. Sulloway of New
all right from the Democratic view
point, and so was Darius Green's
FOR U. S. SENATOR
Those who know Walter S. Dickey know that he i, first
of all, u patriot and aftor that a Republican whose devotion
to his party in based on his conviction that it stands for what
is best in Nation and State and who is therefore incapable of
being swemd from party loyalty by any consideration of
merely personal ambition or aggrandizement, either for him
self or anybody else. That's the hort of Republican Walter
S. Dickey has always been. He gave the parly more than
thirty years of unselfish and forceful service before he be
came a candidate for favors at its hands. Mr. Dickey is a
candidate for the nomination for I'niled States Senator be
cause assurances have come to him from all parts of the
utate that, his nomination will strengthen the ticket and help
to guarantee its victory. He considers that no man ought to
be nominated for any office unless he is the strongest man
that can be chosen for that place, because he regards Repub
lican ictory this year of more importance than any man's
personal ambition.
Hampshire. They have failed to
realize what it means. A tariff com
mission appointed by President Wilson
along Democratic lines, means noth
ing to protection, because the De
mocratic party does not believe in pro
tecting American industries. What
the Wilson tariff commission will stand
for is a tariff for revenue only. This
tariff commission will not attempt to
foster, protect or develop American in
dustry, but will expend its time and
energy to produce a tariff that will
raise a certain amount ol revenue, re
gardless ol what happens to industry.
From gossip that is prevalent here,
this commission is to be headed by a
college prolessor, who is long on theory
and short nn practice. Unless a tariff
commission is named which believes
protection, it can be but little less
than a farce so lar as industry and pros
perity are concerned.
Adiournment is looking farther off
than ever and, if the Democratic lead
ers in Congress are to be believed, it
is the fault of President Wilson
Wh-:re it looked a week or two ago
as if the present session might end
near the first ol July, it now appears as
though it would be nearer the
first ol October. Men high in the
councils of the Democratic party, state
that President Wilson is so insistent
for certain legislation, that notwith-
j. H. PARRISH, PatsiDENT. J. V.. REESE, Vict-President.
S. W. BOSWELL, Cashibb.
TANEY COUNTY BANK,
FOKSYTH, MlSSOUKI.
Capital Stock
Surplus and Undivided Profits
$25,000.00.
$40,000.00.
A (ienoral Banking Business Transacted
Collection a Specialty Your Patronage Solicited
C. W. MOOHE, President. F. M. HALL, Vice-Peesident.
A. B. MOORE. Cashier.
Bank of Hollister,
Hoilister, Mo.
Capital Stock - - - $lo,ooo.oo.
Surplus and Undivided Profits, $2,000
Transacts a (Jeneral Banking Business.
V I) PAY 1 l'KU CKNT INTKlMvST ON TIMK DKIMNSITS.
J. H. MILLS, President
M. 15. SLUSHEU, Cashier
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned,
$10,000.0?
2,00000
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOUR BUSINESS
J. F. MliL'lON, E.G. MILLS, J- B- MILLS,
1. t. MclMIlittSON, M. 15. SLUSIIEK, Directors
j -
Presidential year, and the people are flying machine all right Irom the stand
scrutinizing the history of the Demo-1 noint of that Yankee aeronaut, but
cratic party since its advent on March; there is about the law something remi
4. 1912. It is hoped to excuse an un-1 niscent of the machine, and that some
neccessary tax by removing it after it thing is not so sweet by half.
has taken more than one hundred mil '" ".. ,
Cmn . nf nflmnprtir (rnnnmire
lion dollars out of the pockets of the ' """'" "-"
people. Furthermore, the tax is sim- Senator Martin, (Dem) o' New Jer
nlv coins: to be shifted around and ' sey, presented o most remarkable doc-
those who are now paying the tax di- uracnt to the Senate the other day. It standing the fact that he has Deen torn
rectlv will hereafter oav it indirectly, was a resolution adopted by the Nat- that it will take until fall to pass it,
' ' I.. ... I X 1 1 . A
htrott,.. hm.. hirh are leviedononeiional Democratic Club of New York that he will not yieia ana lei nis pei
set of citizens, or one erona ofmanu-'City favoring the Government ship measures go
firt ii r re is TinnnH tn hi nrnratprf i nurchase bill, and this was one of the It is even being stated that he bobs
amnnral! the neonle in oneway or an-, reasons given: "Owing to American up every few days with something
other standards of wages, safety at sea and new he desires, lneiacimai ong-
Besides avoiding, or trying to avoid j humane conidtions of labor forAmeri- ress has been practically marking
the war tax, the Democrats have cov jean seamen, private enterprise cannot "me r.ncc ciuu uUW ...
eted un the heavy deficits in the 1 be relied noon to provide the ships, to be largely due to the fact that with
Treasury by fictitious statements. The, because experience has demonstrated the constantly changing mind of the
it:.!!. Tfenrv statement U a penuine . that orivate capitol cannot successfully President, his party leaders have been
j . ..... j.j . j
piece of modern fiction. It shows a ! compete against the handicap of lower obliged to sit arouno. ana wau ana
net balance of more than one hundred , standards maintained by other maritime see just what hejeally wants
million dollars, whereas, instead of there ! nations." Another straw vote has been taken
being a working balance there is an As an idea in economics that is a tjme jn fjew York by a newspaper
actual deficit. It is, of course, amus-' gem. Suppose it were followed out and the dwindling strength ol Wilson
ing to assume that the people are fool- in our manuiactunng industries. Amer- tom that ol four years ago is again
ed by this kind of work. The repeal ican laboring men receive higher 1 sh0wn. Twenty nine men are record-
of free suttar has been accomplished as wages, and they operate under more fA int Wilson this year, whereas, ol
quietly as possible because of the humane conditions than those prevail- tne 320 who made reply, no less than
promises made that it would reduce ing abroad. It the National Demo
the cost ol living. The second hall ol cratic Club of New York in favor of
the Democratic Administration has having the Government operate our
been actively engaged in correcting , factories on that account? Is gove ra
the mistakes of the first half, but wi'h- iment ownership to be the fate ol any
. . ...... 1 , 1. 1 . .
out success, i he war does cot explain inaustry wnicn accorus iau ucaiintm
the high cost r l living which is today j to labor? Why is this club for govem
niany simes higher than ever in the ; ment ownership and agiinst a protect
history ol the country. The Demo- j ive tariff, for instance? "The old
crats are working with feverish haste to ' fashioned subsidy system has failed,
provide some explanation ol the differ- ',ai it is not only discredited but uir
Fine Place to Fish
Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2,00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
seventy-seven confess to having sup
ported him in.
"Our shortened line of communica
tions" in Mexico will follow closely
the line of the Kansas, Mexico & Ori
ent Railroad. The practical mind
will at once want to know why we do
not use the railroad itself. The ans
wer is that Cananza will not let us.
Yet Wilson made Carranza.
Room With Bath,
$1.25 to $1.50
Room Without Bath,
75c to $1.00
I
THE
METROPOLITAN
Springfield's Oldest First Class Hotel
Jesse Nance, Manager
"MEET ME AT THE MET."
Springfield,
Missouri,
1
