eta ilietorlcai
Society .,
xico Missouri Message
On yonr label la date)
' lU-new before It U too Ute.
VOLUME 17.
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1916.
NUMBER 24.
Me
Said of a Noted Rev
olutionary Father
Of Historical and Genealogical Int
rrPNt To Several Audrain County
Families Concerning a Soldier
of Washington's Day.
The D. A. R. Magazine, May num-
ber, contains an account of the un-
veiling of a bronze tablet, placed by
the Peoria Chapter, on the monu
ment marking the grave of Captain
Zealy Moss, a revolutionary soldier,
who was born in Fairfax County, Va.,
1755, and died in Peoria, 111., 1839.
. The Peoria Chapter, D. A. R., was
assisted by the Capttain Zealy Moss
Chapter, C. A. R., in the unveiling of
the tablet, and the oration was de
livered by Walter Kirk of Peoria. A
part of this address was as follows:
rPV nmn r 9 iia whn Kbva haati fNtlvtl-
WvDv us, uo fruv uaiv ui;vu -
eged to talk to others who have seen
C'apt. Zealy Moss and knew him well,
recall that he was of that tall, rugged
stalwart type of men who as Vir
ginia frontiersmen and pioneers had
so large a part in laying broad and
deep the foundations of our beloved
republic and establishing and de
fending it at the peril of their lives."
. "Possessed of large means, and
great influence, a warm personal
friend of Gen. George Washington, he
was almost at the beginning of the
war placed in full charge of the trans
portation of munitions and supplies."
"These extremely important duties,
with only men and teams at his com
mand, lie discharged ' with singular
honor and ability o the end of the
war and waa present with General
THE HOUSE OP QUALITY
Announces its annual SpringSaleof FincMerchan
dise. You'll find many articles of standard quality,
in this special sale.at less than regular price, but not a
single article of less than standard quality at any
price; we often reduce price but never the quality.
ELGIN WATCHES.
In thin model,stemwind,
dust proof Silverine
cases, open face, at $5.50.
In 20 year gold filled
cases, both plain and en
graved designs, at $10.00.
STERLING SILVER
Front Belt Buckles in plain satin and beautifully
chased designs with good quality tubular style leath
er belts, only $1-50. Other styles in sterling silver and
gold filled, with cutout monograms and seal belts, up
to $6.00. 1
"ENDENTE" OR .PLATE . SUNK
.On kid finish vellum is the very latest in visiting cards
and wedding invitations. We show samples of the
new cards in 20 styles of engraving from $1.50 to $$.75
tor 100 caras ana piate. 100 cards trom your plate,
any style, only $1.00. 100 wedding invitations in per
fect script engraving, two envelopes, newest shape,
Crane's wedding stock paper in linen, or vellum, $10.
. Our School and Fraternity Jewelry Department
Is showing the largest display of Hardin, McMillan
and M. M. A pins, seals, charms, fobs, brooches,
bracelets, links, chains, hat pins, scarf pins, bar pins,
and all kinds of novelties that we have ever made.
BRACELET WATCHES.
In small sizes with detachable bracelets in nickle,
gun metal, "silver, gold-filled and solid gold, from
$3.56 to $50.00 . .
THE ONE FOUNTAIN PEN
with a perfect guarantee, that will not leak, that is
easily filled, that always writes.is the CONKLIN.
We carry a gross in stock and can give you any
shape, style or kind of point priced from $2.50 up to
$12.00. . "' "v
"Our Name On The Box Lends An Added Value
To Your Gift.'' ,
We invite you to always accept bur standing invita
tion to STEP IN AND LOOK AROUND.
Worrell The Jeweler
On the Corner
Washington at the surrender of Corn
wallis at Yorktown."
"Not many years after the terrl
ory of Illinois became a State, Cap
tain Moss moved with his family over
the mountains from Virginia to Ken
tucky. Here he soon established
himself and was everywhere recog
nized aa a truly good man of large
affairs, with a remarkably brilliant
family."
The old soldier thus honored was
the grandfather of the late W. L.
Mo8a of Laddonla, Mo., one of the
pioneers of Audrain County; and
hence the great grandfather of Mrs.
C. A. Smith! Mrs. E. C. Kennen, and
Mrs. Robt. Ferris of that city.
HOUC1HN CLUB FORMED.
A Houchin-for-Governor Club was
organized in Mexico Saturday night.
C. Bv Luckie is president; J. W. Gel
haus, vice-president; Cleve Smith,
secretary and treaourer; Roy Pearl,
advertising manager. The club has
headquarters at the Hoxsey Hotel.
SWALLOWS COAL OIL.
The small son of Mr. and Mrs. W.
W. Van Matre of Elaberry, who have
been visiting the family of Rev. B. G.
Reavis here, drank a swallow of coal
oil two or three days ago, thinking
it was water. Some of the oil went
onto the little fellow's lungs and he
came near choking to death. Three
physicians were called to his help.
Richard Gentry, formerly of Mex
ico, died at his late home in Kansas
City Monday. At one time he was
In the banking business here.
Mrs. Barbara Coil of Perry is vis
iting her son and daughter, Dr. P.
E. Coil and Mrs. B. G. Reavis, in this
city.
XV'WW-'
OF Mexico.
Mlllf
WOODCRAFT STOIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
Sixth Story.
By L. Roy Ferris.
Gentle Dove had gone to bed. She had sounded her
last lonesome call before flying to the old dead elm and,
nestling close to her mate, was soon sound asleep dreaming
of wheat fields of golden grain.
Robin Redbreast, who hates to own up that he is
sleepy like a little boy when company comes sang one
more little sweet jerky song and before he was quite thru
had passed into Dreamland dreaming of fat fishing worms.
And Brother Rabbit who loyes to play out on moonlight
nights decided to stay at home and sleep, for the moon had
gone behind a cloud and, my, but it was awfully dark. He
hadn't gotten to sleep when a call frightened him until his
little fur shook, but Bunny Flying Squirrel who was pass
ing said, "You silly goose, don't you know a screech owl
when you hear it?" Of course that put Brother Rabbit at
his ease. So he laid his ears flat on his back and went to
sleep. Bunny Flying" Squirrel, who loves to climb up into
a tree and set his wings and sail down and hit with a thump
on the top of a tent to' scare a fellow who hasn't camped
much and who had forgotten to say his prayers, after his
dear mother had told him to do, so, just ;s though being
in the woods would excuse a fellow well, as Bunny set
.lis wmgs to play the trick he noticed something dark slip
ti ound the corner of the tent where the camp boy and his
lad kept their provisions.
"Oh, my," whispered Bunny to Brother Terrapin who
s passing, "Did you see something?"
Brother Terrapin who thought he did but wasn't quite
e whispered, "Be quiet."
Just about that time Dr. Owl lit on a tree near the
lent and started to give his familiar call, "Who, who, who
are you,'" that is always answered by some of his kinfolks
way off in the woods. He had hardly said the first "who"
before his sharp eyes, that are-made to see mice with at
night, got a glimpse of something moving about in the
provision tent. It doesn't take much to collect a crowd,
lust like real people when a house is on fire. Slim Wea
sel's cousin, Bother I$uskfat, who' was going to dig rootsi
d a dozen other little night prowling animals, stopped
to see what was the matter.
Squirrel is. the only squirrel that leaves its warm bed to
lunt for food at night and both Red Squirrel and Gray
Squirrel slept all through the excitement.
Bunny Flying Squirrel could stand it no longer and,
ailing down toward the tent where the camp boy slept,
hit with a thump against the side of the tent, but the boy
and his father s.lept soundly all through the clatter.
Dr Owl who wanted to help called and called until
his neighbors flew over to see what was up.
Whip-poor-will who always turns around every time
she calls "whip-poor-will" turned around so often she
grew dizzy.
The Mocking Bird who had awakened sang as only
a mocking bird can sing to lull
have been the reason the camp boy and his dad slept
through it all.
When the camp boy went to the provision tent the
next morning after the bacon
with a queer look on his face,
and good to everybody it hurts for any one to do him
a mean trick. '
"I don't believe Brother
for they have grown so tame
all the scraps we have left. Brother Coon and Possum
are such fine fellows since, we fed them, and I know they
wouldn't do it. Slim Weasel is dead and but what
funny looking tracks here in the mud."
Sure enough, there they were, just like he had only
two legs; he had put his right hind foot down in the track
his right front foot had made, and his left feet the same.
l it funny a fellow's tracks always give him away?
Also there were some red hairs and that proved without
a doubt that Red Fox. was the thief. The camp boy got
down on his knees and, after looking the tracks over, re
marked, "You sly rascal, I am going to set a figure-four
for you.'' Sister Opossum grinned, for she felt sure
there would be some fun.
LARGE BARN WAS DE
STROYED SATURDAY.
The large horse barn on W. W.
Fry's farm west of Mexico waa de
Saturday morning. ,The contents
farm implements, harness, hay, corn,
etc., was lost also. The live stock
waa in the pastures and safely escap
ed the flames. There waa aome in
surance. It is not known now me
; fire caught Mike Shire Uvea on the
farm. Ha had to tend to town for
inew harness before he could take
J his tenuis into the field for work Saturday.
It is funny, but Flying
a fellow to sleep; that may
for breakfast he came back
for when a fellow is kind
and Sister Muskrat stole it
since we, came. They eat
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bartels and
small daughter have returned from
a visit at New Canton, 111. Mr. Bar
tels la still nursing that lame wrist,
hurt while he was in the act of
cranking an auto.
$ $ $ - $ . $ $ $ $ $ $
$ 'Mexico Savings Bank $
$ 44th Year in Business $
$ Capital Stock, $150,000 $
$ W. W. FRY, President. $
$ J. R. JESSE, Cashier. $
$ $ $ $
HOME FROM THE SOUTHLAND.
Mrs. W. L. Heed Gives Impressions
of Georgia and The Woman's
Council Marting.'
A kind invitation from the man
agement of the Message to write a
few notes about my recent visit to
Atlanta, and the Meeting of the Wom
an's Missionary Council of the South
ern Methodist Church is gratefully
accepted; because I feel that both the
development of the New South, and
the methods of work pursued by the
Society are more characteristic of the
twentieth century spirit than of any
one section of denomination.
The eloquence of the late Henry W.
Grady rendered Georgia, the Empire
State of the South, forever famous;
but Mr. Grady did more. He brought
to his own state a realization of ita
hidden wealth, its unused resources;
and its marble hills, its pine forests,
and its red clay fields have been
touched by the magic of modern in
dustry. It yields its tribute to the
wealth of the nation. Atlanta is a
rushing city with substantial business
houses; and raagnif leant homes,
which are set in the midst of large
well-kept lawns. Though the season
is backward, the air was full of the
songs of birds, and the breath of the
mountain honeysuckle, the dogwood
bloom, and the violets. The hedges
of Southern smilax separated neigh
boring lawns, the purple wisteria
blossoms made fairy land of arches
and pergolas, and the azalias, in be
wildering masses of color, were
blooming everywhere.
Among the addresses of welcome
was one from Governor Harris of
Georgia, himself a Methodist, who
spoke with a knowledge tf church
phraseology and a devotion to church
work that was inspiring. With the
chivalry and the flowery eloquence
of the "old South", he said of the
church work of women: "It is a
never-fading flower gathered from
the fields of paradise"; and again:
"If it were not for the work of the
women, the altar fires would long
since have gone ont."
The meeting of the Council in At
lanta thirty-eight years ago that the
General Conference of the Southern
Methodist Church first gave the
women the authority to work for mis
sions. On the platform were a num
ber of women who were members of
the first auxiliary organized in Atlan
ta, and they spoke of the wonderful
growth. Their struggles to walk In
parliamentary paths were not less
difficult than their attempts to se
cure money. One lady, still in health
and strength, was Introduced as hold
ing the remarkable record of having
attended every monthly meeting of
her auxiliary in the thirty-eight years.
It was with commendable pride that
these pioneer women, who were
reared in the sheltered homes of the
Old South, looked upon the present
Woman's Missionary Council, which
is one of the most severely parlia
mentary of all women's organizations.
The President,. Miss Belle H. Ben
nett, the daughter of a prominent
Kentucky family, is considered one
of the finest presiding officers in the
world, bringing to the position per
sonal magnetism, culture and wealth.
A large force of secretaries are con
stantly busy, and the women dictate
to the stenographers with a fluency
that is rather remarkable when we
consider that they are mostly mothers
and homemakers. Every report goes
to the calendar, and is, never acted
upon until after It receives a third
reading. No officer makea a report
until the printed copy has been placed
In the hands of every member. The
Council Daily, issued . eacly each
morning carefully reviews the work
of the preceding day. The body num.
bars something over a huudren mem
bers, being composed ot the officers
and two delegates from each of the
forty-five conference - ot Southern
Methodism. The total money re
ceived by the Treasurer last year
amounted to half a million dollars:
besides this, the women report about
three hundred thousand dollars more
expended on local church work. The
Council supports about one hundred
foreign missionaries in China, Japan,
Korea, Brazil, Cuba, and now Africa
is to be added to the list of our mis
sion stations.
Another feature worthy of mention
is the disposition of people of wealth
to make large contributions. Mr. Asa
Candler, a brother of Bishop Can
dler, who has given a million dollars
to establish a Methodist University in
Atlanta, made an address to the Coun
cil. Our mission in Africa is to be
opened thru a $5,000 gift from Mrs.
Glide of San Francisco, who previous
ly gave to the Council the splendid
Co-operative Home for Working Girls
in San Francisco. Another Joy of the
Meeting was the appropriation of
$150,000 to establish a School for
Girls, in the great capital of Brazil,
which now has no Protestant School.
New work among the Italians in
New Orleans is to be In charge of
Miss Helen Gibson, who is well
known here in Mexico.being a niece of
Mrs. Miriam Ross.
We are often asked whether all
this work pays If the people to
whom we send workers are really ca
pable of receiving this education. Two
of the most brilliant speakers of the
Council are my answer. The first was
Dr. Katherine French, a mountain
girl educated in our Kentucky Moun
tain School at London, who found her
way to Columbia University, New
York, and receive a Ph. D. from
that institution. - Later she waa a
member of the Faculty of Bryn Mawr
and Mount Holyoke;and has returned
to be the Dean ot the Sue Bennett
Mountain - school, where she began
her education.
The other magnetic personality
was Dr. Mary Stone, a Chinese girl,
the product of mission schools, who
received her degree as a physician
from the University of Michigan, and
who has been in the service of medi
cal missions in China twenty years.
The most impressive service of the
Council Meeting is always the Conse
cration of the Missionaries and the
deaconesses. The Atlanta people had
requested that the girls tell of the
convictions which were urging them
forward in this work. One girl told
how she had longed to go to China,
but for health reasons, it was not wise
to send her; and go she was taking
the work of a deaconess, but would
support a substitute worker across
the seas. The three girls who are to
go as pioneer missionaries to Africa
stood as monuments of courage. Be
yond thousands of miles by steamer.
and hundreds by African Rivers, they
must walk for nine days thru the
Jungles of Africa, unUl they shall Join
our Missouri missionaries. Dr. and
Mrs. Mumpower.
In very impressive charge, Bishop
McCoy spoke to them of standing as'
representatives of the heroic in wom
anhood la aa age ot luxury. After
that the girls in alack were conse
crated to minister to the needy and
the Buffering in America; and the
girls in white were commissioned to
carry the gospel of Christ to the
ends ot the earth."
Our way home brought us in sight
of aome of the great battle-fields of
the Civil War; and we could but
think how much this generation
should do for the uplift of humanity
because Peace baa given us ita won
derful opportunities.
After the bluegrasa region ot Ken
tucky the red hills ot Georgia and the
yellow clay ot Tennessee, the black
soil of Mlasouri and ita wide prairies
seemed to hold the largest promise
for future years.
Wool ia selling around near 30o
on the local market.' "
' IIHWIIIIIIIMIIM
