State H'Stoncai oj.ij
MONROE CITY DEMOCRAT
Volume XXIX.
Monroe City, Mo., Thursday, May 11, 1916.
Number 6
And Now For Monroe The City Beautiful. Will You Help?
ABOUT THE CHURCHES
'ntarasting News
Dlftarant Denomination.
This Column Close Promptly at
9 A. M. Each Wednesday.
will be "A lesson drawn from a ' Struck by Lightning.
godlv mothers life. Last year I St. Stephen Church at Indian Was you at the exhibit and
spoke on Home in the morning and ' Creek was struck by lightning dur-1 pageant at the school louse rues
Concerning the Mther ( night, this being Mothers i i,,g the storm Sunday night and the ,Hy, jf n,it, why not?
Day I will keep tins in mind There i chimney was damaged. This is the Promptly at 2 o'clock the entire
will be no evening service If it does i third time in 31 years that it has gr ,e school opened the entertain
not ruin, we are 'oing to Rensselaer had this misfortune. The last time met 0y giving a calisthenics drill
School Exhibit and Pageant I SHORT LOCAL STORIES
Being a Lot of Interesting Ileus
You Probably Did Not Know.
The Suri'lhy School nt the Stone .cement exercises of the Acade- i when it burned to the ground. This 0f beautiful drills and
School House is gelling on nicely.
songs, the
my. The male quartette has been i is the third time the church has lexeruses lasting auout nn huiir.
I See Dierk(i. Hays
Lawn Swings nt
I ware
iboul yo ir ii-e
.) leacr's Hard
It wus announce.! iasi ouu....y umi . sk(1i , sever(ll selections for been built On the 10th of March Tin- visitors were then shown into ! ThK p f 0-s win .- ,:. .,ir,
Hri Ititu wnlllli ntt'UI'h lieXt Sllll- .1... : 1 l ' .nT,. !. I, ... I L. . . t . . . . t .. r ! .
" ' ------ jiiie strrviia;. mm acvcim un tuc , 100 u was ue&woyeu uy a uy:iuc tne scnool nouse ana an exnioit 01 i Runrrt Mertiwether Sn'.urd iv -ifter-
noon at 2 1(1
Earl Moil. I hihI Alexis Hay-hive
uav, out ne uinnoi. nro. going down. We are proud of the l the most disastrous wind storm the work of the year was shown
Johnson. Pastor of -Grace baptist n,terest being manifested in all uf that has ever been in this part of i it is interest iag to note the (level
Church will preach next Sunday nf-1, (le Church work, and hope it may : the country. Lament of the work from veur to
ternuon Bro Hoy will preach in grow umi people will be saved at j Sundn- night the store of T. S
every service For this purpose we : Boulware, of Clapper was entirely
the near future. It is earnestly
hoped th;it a large crowd may come;
out to hear Bro Johnson.
PRESBYTERIXN
Regular services next Sunday at
11 a. m. a'l 7:30 p. in
Sunday School at 9:15 a. in.
Christian Endeavor at 0:30 p. m
Prayer meeting every Wednesday
evening at 7:30.
The public cordially invited to i
all services.
CHRISTIAN
Bible School St ir) a. m
Preaching 11 a in.
Next Sunday morning at the
Hible School we will take our otter
ing for Missions and Benevolences.
However the 1 1 o'clock service will
be in commemoration of Mother
The sermon will be appropriate to
the day ami there will be special
music. But remember that the
offering at that hour will be for
missions. Let every mother be
present. If there are those who
cannot come we can provide a way
for all who wish to come. Plenty
of automobiles have already been
placed at our service for that day.
Let each member be a committee
of one to inform the pastor of those
for whom a way must be provided
The public invited. Remember
the Missionary Offering.
W. Garnet Alcorn, Pastor
FIRST BAPTIST
Sunday was n good day with us.
We had 123 in Sunday School and
the congregations Bt the other serv
ices were very good indeed. We had
a good many visitors Sunday even
ing. We are always glad to have
them. We had some mighty good
music Sunday morning, and we
have the promise of some more
just as good next Sunday It is
"Mothers' Day" in the Sunday
Schools all over the laud, and we
hoie to have a large attendance
Our Supt. is planning for a large
crowd, and you will enjoy it if you
come II your Mother is living come
anil bring her, and Father too
If Mother has gone, to the better
world do you not think it right, just
in memory of her, to do what you
know would so please her if she
were living? Be.nuse of the Bacca
laureate service al the High School
Auditorium Sunday evening, there
will be no services at our church in
the evening We give every body
a most cordial invitation to worship
with us Sunday morning
Saia F. fiat. Fastir.
METHODIST
Last Sunday was a great
are working, and unless the devil j destroyed by fire. The supposition
disrupts our work I believe it will be , is that it was struck by lightning
so God speed the day. C I. Hoy ! during the storm When the fire
was discovered it had gained such
headway that it was impossible to
ave anything. The loss was partly
day
with us; there were 214 in S. S. and
nearly twice that number in tbe
preaching services. The ladies ren
dered a beautiful quartette, and I
took up tbe theme announced. Tbe
evening service was another profit-
able service; tbe male quurtetle
sang and we bad a good service.
Services nem Sunday in keeping
with tbe d The morning theme
New City Of icers. !
The City Council met in regular
scssioi. Frid iv evening. Thev pass
ed a resolution for paving the alley
in block 15 which is between Mc
Cariy's and Burr's store, also to
pave and curb Vine Street from the
intersection at Main and Dover to
the first alley north of Winter
Street. Bids .vere received for work
on Winter Street und the contract
was let to Evan Smith at $1.19 a
square yard lor the paving and 32
cents a lineal foot of the curbing
J G Waile then took the oath of
office as Mayor and he swore in the
new aldermen. G E Chipmun, C B.
Anderson and S. B. Thiehnff. The-.e
with W R. Yates, J. D Robey and A
S Jayne compose the now board.
The following elective officers
look the oath of office:
Node Green, police judge.
Alexis Hays, collector.
J. T. Elliott, marshal
Mayor Wade then made his ap
pointments: City Clerk, Geo W. Tompkins.
Treasurer, W. M. Patterson.
Street Commissioner, J T Elliott
Fire Chief, W. II. Wilson.
Assessor, J K Ely.
Board of Health. Dr. J. N. South
ern and Dr W D. Pipkin.
Finance, Cliipman, Jayne and
Rohey.
Claims, Thiehofl, Robey and Jayne
Water and Lights, Yutis, Chip
man and Thiehnff.
Ordinance. Robey, Thiehuff and
Anderson.
Nuisances. Anderson, Jayne and
Yates
Relief. Anderson, Chipmun. Yates
Streets and Alleys, Jayne, Robey
ami Anderson.
Park Commissioners, Chipmun,
North Park; Rohey, South Park.
Permission was granted to put
water ill South Park.
Board udjourncd to meet May 19.
Mr. Tompkins has served as clerk
for 31 years consecutively. He wus
first appointed by Dr A. Noland
He has held public office longer
than any man in Monroe Jus S
Scott has been on the board ulmost
long serving as alderman and
mayor. Both have provea pronci-
ent in the affairs of the city and
their work has been appreciated.
Buy your ice from Dierks & Huys
at A. Jaegers
covered by insurance.
High Schi ol Operetta
Auout fouy mgii school students
will put on the comic operetta Po-
year It was all good but the ,"m " "urysvme mis ween
needlework deserves especial j ''"rt Sl' Convention ol
mention Some of the work done in ! Knights of Columbus
the seventh and eighth grades was
excellent Not only were garments
made but elubmutely trimm-d
with hand made lace and em
broidery If this work could only
be continued through the high
school our girls would be well able
to do all their sewing when tliey
finish school, Domestic scieiii-e is
in many schools today and our
at-
ttie
cabontas in the schoolyard next ; gcbuol board is just as anxious to
Tuesday evening. Mrs Boucher as-1 t,jVc uur yuuug people as can be
sisted by Miss Webb, has had the j obtained in any other schools, and
Some tune ago Senator riV-1
sent us some garden seed for di
tribulioii A few are l-fi an I 'niy
be had at this office
Mrs S nn Monig aai-ry b i- re
ceived word fr cn h-r s ci Vle-i in
Bould-r Cl.r.ido tint a b i" 8
pound b 'V arrived at hi- h . ise
Sunday May 7. his na ic is J din
At wood
training of the young folks. ihe
Symphony orchestra will play ihe
accompaniments. The school has
given a number of splendid enter-
uinments this year This is sum --
thing new and is thought to be bet
ter than anything they have had in
the past Don't forget the date
M i 1(1.
,1 T. Glasc ii-k has uiiu i. iii -! as
a candid lie f 'pre election as a--ess-or
of Monroe County. Mr Giusc n-k
is a sit-uiii gentleman and h is
made t.ood and has a large click ol
friends who will work for Ins reelection
it will he added as soon as they
feel it can be afforded.
A knowledge of household arts
und household sciences is more
necessary to the avenge girl than
knowbdge of geometry and latin.
A visit to the radio station was
very interesting. The Radio Club
is compssed of seven boys, Bert
Emerson, engineer. Rossel Lnng
uiire president Harry Luigaiiie
secretary, Dean Wilson. Christ y
Gentry., Manning Humphrey and
Cecil Sweuriugeii.
The receiving apparatus was
cotnnleled the first of J inuarv and A fine !)-. pound son w a
thp KPndiiui nrmnr.uiis tbe first f i W. S. Confer and w ife I'lii-day He
April About hulfoftheiti-'riinienis
weic made bv the hovs themselves
They are able to send messages er. Mrs. Ida tiottinaii. Mr C
as fai as Columbia und Jeff rsoti ! is in Denver but we would n.
City und receive messages from th- j surprised to see him any day
Government station at Arlington. 1 we know he will be auxi fi .
Va. They get correct time and j1'1'' boy
where refreshments j weather report from Arlington at I
1 9 a in. and from tbe Watch Co at I
Li e Party.
Mrs. Joe Quinn gave a line party
it the Gem Monday evening in
honor of Mr. Quinu's cousin Miss
Lucy O'Brien of Ahliu. Iowa, who
has been spending a week with
client The guests were Misses
Cecelia Yates, Myrtle and Stella
Pierceull, Maude Spalding. Bess
Montgomery, Alma Pierceall, Bess
Mudd, Alice. Cordie and Ruth Hour,
Mae McAllister, Lucy O'Brien and
Mary Finnegan. After the sh .w
Mrs Quinn totk them to Southern
& Spalding's
were served.
MissUtlrien leu yesteruay lor i Springfield at no it ea
Kentucky where she will spend
several weeks.
! The Palinvra - 1 .aroe Hh
I School baseball game that wa iiu
'tiounce l for Tuesday aft -rn in
I failed to materialize owin t a
uiisuudcrst Hiding The Palmyra
1 team was expected here. Th" bays
dressed for the game anil ri- cro-vd
gathered The same thing ha;-
j pencil at P ilinyr.i.
i A fine !li ooiind son was bom to
II be called William Mvrle. -Irs
rder is at toe home of her m-ith-
rder
oe
for
Quincy vs Monroe
The Quincy Eagles played the
City team here Sunday afternoon.
It was a very interesting game
and was favorable to the home
team the score being 4 to 2 until
tbe beginning ot the last inning
when the Quincy team made three
home runs thus winning the g.iai-.
Il day.
Any member of the High S 'h aol
is Eligible to this club.
Mudd
Sidney Mudd, youngest .-on o(
the late Jniues F Muod and wife, i
wes born in Lincoln County in
Sepfmher 1853 nod diei a hi.-j
Inc.." southwest et ibis iiy .it 111
Porch Swings
Hardware.
$1,000 to Loan on city property
or farm land for a term of five
years. Node Green. 5-17
Jas. Speed, of Paris spent Sunday
evening with W. H. WHson.
next morning both gentlemen wert
to Si. Louis w.Htteud the Missouri
Funeral PirectDf's Association.
Doing Something
Scetit'ii No. 1 of the Civic League
has been busy If yuu want to see
the results just go over to the
South Park and tHke a look. There
is not a prettier parkin the country
than this one and ihe ladies in the
southeast part of town, assisted by
the men and boys of their families,
have put ii in splendid shape. The
city furnished them a lawn mower
and this, with two others, have been
busy and the grass has all been cut
Monday the city put water in and
Tuesday the tuige circle in the cen
ter of the park, was set with flowers.
They have put in a spray and ex
pect in the future to bave a foun
tain The ladies expect to have a
social June . I and it should be tbe
dyja as well as the pleasure ol the.
oommunity m patrocriise them a4
hjlp iu the good work.
In lb:s is-ue will he found the an
nouncement of A S (l)nllic) W . d
son of Stntitsville. Mo., for i.'ouu'y
Treasurer. Mr Woodson w.is barn
and raised in the vicini'v of Stars
ville and the greater part of his life
has been spent in Monroe Co. ;ie
lost his eye sight a few years cio
but sliil he has not lot ha; h it
cheerfully a vepls hi- misfortun- as
a tepping stone to higher I'mutt- in
life. Both R ills and Vacon Gem
ue elected hlino men to -n
tin l'r. usurer office in the p.H ad
why not Monroe do the saint'' lr
Wenilsnn and his good wife are
battles together, wiih
out the assistance uf churties. If he
! II
Ih.hi 5 lay 9. 1910
About forlv : C .r ago he in Tie.!
Mis Eliza M.uld who p.is-. I n.ay
Dec. 4, 1914. They had no children
U l....fo.l Mrc n,ii-.ti.-t ITil'ti
u u... a i.....,HSh""!
Wlicil Mlt? wa s ii . u i niy ini'i 1 1 , . , u
her as their own. ic ..leeted we are sure that he and
The deceased was one of twelve jnis ,.apable wife will discharge the
children Five of these are living duties of the oinee wuuirtoe m
Patrick Mudd of this city. Samuel jboth himself and Monroe County
Mudd and Mrs. Susan Elder of
Montgomery City, John N. Mudd of j
Jefferson City and Mrs. Martha
Clarkiton of St. Charles.
Mr. Mudd had risings in his head
during tbe winter and the last two
or three weeks suffered with a car
bunkle in the back of the neck
which cuused his death.
Funeral services were held al St.
Stephens church at Indian Creek
at 3:30 Wednesday afternoon. Rev.
Fr. Devane officiating. Interment
In St Stephens cemetry.
Motor Hand Car Accident
Wednesday uf last week Harry
Gaupmnn and Clcve Cleary of
Clapper were on a motor hand ear
when it jumped the track and both
men were thrown off. Dr. Goouier
railroad physican for the M K & T.
was called. Mr. Gaupman was un
concious for a time. His head was
hurt and both men were badly
bruised. They were taken ti the
M. K. & T. hospital at Sedalia. Mr.
Cleary has returaed borne but Mr
Gaupman has not recovered so
quickly.
I:;
