THE : BARRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 49.
I3AHRE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
FRENCH TURN
TO THE ATTACK
Berlin War Office Claims
That Two Tries Were
Repulsed
ONE WAS DIRECTED
AT DEAD MAN'S HILL
Paris Official Report Says
That the German Attack
Near Vaux Pond Failed
Berlin, Migr 11. Two French attacks,
one on the Verdun front near Dead Man's
hill and the other southeast of hill 304,
broke down with considerable losses un
der German fire, the war office announced
to-day.
On the eastern front heavier fighting
Is under way. In one engagement the
Germans captured 500 yards of Russian
positions and took 300 unwounded pris
oners. ,
French Claim German Repulse.
Taris, May 11 German troops made
&n attack last niglu on French positions
near Vaux pond on the Verdun front,
east of the Meuse, the war office an
nounced this afternoon. This attack was
repulsed. West of the Meuse, the state
ment says, there was vigorous aruuery
action in the region of the Avocouft
wood.
The official communication issued by
the war office lust night reads:
"On the 19ft bank of the Meuse, after
a violent bombardment, the Germans
launched a strong atUck on Our posi
tions in the neighborhood of hill 287.
This attack was completely repulsed.
Some prisoners remained in our hands.
"A small offensive action carried out
by our troops on the slopes west of Ie
Mort Honune permitted us to occupy
sol parts of a German trench. We
made 62 prisoners and captured two ma
chine guns.
"The day was comparatively calm on
the rest of the front.
GERMAN SORRY
MISTAKE 3IADE
IN SUSSEX CASE
OFFENSIVE RESUMED
ON TWO WAR FRONTS
r
Austrian War Office Reports That Ital
ians Began Attack on Gorizia Bridge
head But Were Repulsed Russians
in Galicia Also Reported Active.
Berlin via wireless, May U. Increased
activity on both the Italian and Galicia
fronts "was reported by the Austrian war
office in a statement dated yesterday.
which says in part:
"On the Italian front the enemy,
after a lively bombardment yester
day of portions of the Gorizia bridge
head and Doberdo plateau, made sev
eral attacks this morning at San Mar
tino. He was repulsed every time.
At several places on the Carinthian
and East Tyrol fronts there was in
creased activity on 'the part of the
artillery."
RUSSIANS 110 MILES
FROM BAGDAD NOW
Turks Are Reported To Be Fleeing Be
fore Them and Pursuers Have
Captured Several
Guns.
Petrograd, May 11. Much importance
is attached here to Kussian operations
on the Mesopotamian frontiers, both
north and east. In the latter sector the
Russians have advanced from the interior
of Fersia to the frontier and have occu
pied Kasri Shirin, 110 miles northeast of
Bagdad, their objective. The Turks are
reported as fleeing before them and they
have captured several guns during pursuit.
RECRUITING IN DUBLIN
IS ON INCREASE
Since the Insurrection More Men Have
Joined the British Army Casualties
in Rebellion Now Set at 1,000.
I-ondon, May 11. The latest casualty
T estimate in the Dublin rebellion is l.tMH),
S of which 400 were killed. Lists contain
ing over 400 names of persons arrest d
have been published. The fact is noted
that since the insurrection recruiting has
increased in Dublin. Many are urging
Ird Hardings for lord lieutenant of lr;
1 ml.
U. S. MAIL SEIZED.
Taken from Norwegian and Danish Ships,
Says Copenhagen Dispatch.
Berlin. May 11. A Copenhagen dis
patch says that mail from the I'niteJ
Slates aboard the Norwegian steam-hip
Kristianiafjord and the Danish steam
ship Hellig Olav waa taken off bv the
British at Kirkwall.
Erring Submarine Commander Has Been
"Appropriately Punished" and Govern
ment Declares Intention to Pay
an Indemnity,
Washnigton, D. C, May 11. Germany
in a note received by the state depart
ment yesterday by cable from Ambas
sador Gerard admits that a German sub
marine torpedoed the channel steamer
.Sussex in violation of assurances given
the United states, expresses regret tor
the incident, announces that the subma
rine commander has been "appropriately
punished'' and declares readiness to pay
an adequato indemnity to Americans
injured on the vessel. i
It was indicated at the state depart
ment that the German statement that
the offending commander had been pun
ished would be accepted, as the Sussex
case was regarded as closed except for
arranging for the payment of indemnities
to the several citizens of the I'nited
States who were hurt. There probably
will be no attempt to negotiate for these
indemnities or for final settlement of the
Lusitania and other cases pending, how
ever, until sufficient time has elapsed to
indicate the last American note was rc
ceived in Berlin and whether the new
submarine policy is being lived up to.
Results of an investigation, baaed on
facts supplied by the American govern
ment, the German communication says.
has shown that the contention original
ly set up that the explosion on the Sus
sex was to be traced to a cause other
than a German submarine attack cannot
be maintained. While asserting that the
submarine commander thought he was
dealing with an enemy warship, Foreign
.Minister on Jagow admits that lie
formed his judgment too hurriedly and
therefore did not act fully in accordance
with the strict instruction which called
on him to exercise particular care.
Officials of the state department noted
particularly the passage of tbe note
which said, "in view of these circum
stances the German government frank- j
ly admits that the assurance given the
American government, in accordance with
which passenger vessels were not to be
attacked without w arning, has not bet n
adhered to in the present case."
This was regarded as indicating a pur
pose on Germany's part to decline to
pay indemnities for Americans killed or
injured, in attacks on ships other than
passenger' liners prior to the date of the
iast note in which the (ierman govern
ment promised that freight as well as
passenger vessels would not be attacked
without warning or without provision
for the safety of persons aboard. Any
response to the note received yesterday
probably will make a distinct reservation
of American rights on this point.
The Note.
The German note, signed by Foreign
Minister Von Jagow and addressed to
Ambassador Gerard, is dated May 8 and
the ambassador's cablegram transmitting
it May 9. It says in part:
Supplementing his note of the 4th in
stant concerning the conduct of t he Gor
man submarine warfare, the undersigned
has the honor to inform His Excellency
the American ambassador, Mr. James W.
Gerard, that the further investigation
made by the German naval authorities
concerned, in regard to the French steam
ship Sussex on the basis of the America u
material has bepn concluded in the mean-
time. In conformity with the result of
this investigation the assumption ex
pressed in the note of the undersignej
of the tenth ultimo that the damage of
Ui Sussex was to be traced back to a
cause other than the attack of a Ger
man submarine, cannot be maintained.
"Such an assumption had to be ar
rived at with certainty from the mate
rial in the possession of the German
government for itself, and without fur
ther knowledge of the circumstances con
nected with the torpedoing of the Sus
sex, the more so as apart from the points
enumerated in the note of the loth ut
timo the following facta had come to the
attention of the admiralty staff of the
navy through reliable information:
March 24, 1916, approximately at the
same time as the Sussex, an auxiliary
warship left the port of rolkstone with
a large transport of British infantry on
board; on the same day a transport
steamer was torpedoed in the channel; a
few minutes preceding the explosion on
the Sussex, she had passed through a
mass of shipvvreckage, which created the
impression that a ship had sunk at that
pot shortly before. All these facts jus
tified the conclusion that the only case of
torpedoing Which could be considered un
der the circumstances had struck the
British war vessel whereas, the Sussex
had met with an accident in some other
wa v.
However, on the basis of the Ameri
can material, the t,erman government
cannot withhold its conviction that the
ship torpedoed by the German submarine
is in fact identical with the Sussex, for
in accordance with tins material the
place, the time and the effect of the ex
plosion by which the Sussex was dam
aged, agree in the essential details with
the statements of the (German comman
der, so that there can no longer lie any
question of the possibility of two inde
pendent occurrences.
"In view of the general impression of
all the facts at hand, the Cermau go -ernmeni
considers it beyond doubt that
the comnnmder of 1h sill, marine spIinI
in the lens fide belief that he w hs facuu !
TROOPS SLEPT
ON THEIR ARMS
Meanwhile Earthworks and
Trenches Being Construct
ed at Columbus, N. M.
CITIZENS, ALARMED,
BEGIN TO LEAVE TOWN
Major Sample Assured Them
Measures Were Mere
ly Precautionary
Columbus, N. M., May 11. Major Sam
pie assured the mayor that the defensive
measures by the United States troops
were merely precautionary, but despite
tne assurances some of the citizens are
leaving town. The construction of
trenches and earthworks about the camp
continues. An infantry company slept
on its arms last night.
Washington, I), C, May II. Hirther
indications that the American army op
erations on the Mexican border are in
determinate were given to-day in official
quarters. The National Guard of Tes-
Arizona and Now Mexico will be
mustered into the army for a period of
enlistment with no specific time for fed
eral service stipulated.
Secretary of War Baker said there is
nothing to confirm the reports that Gen
eral Scott served an ultimatum on Obre
gon for a final answer regarding the
tenative protocol.
.No official advices are forthcoming that
more Americans have crossed the bor
der in the Big Bend region, but it is
thought that some have. The Inst cen
sus showed less than 3.0(H) Americans
remaining in Mexico and tho stnte de
partment has advised these to leave.
SMALL WATER MAIN,
HAMPERED FIREMEN
IN BARTON FIRE
BIG AEROPLANE
FELL IN RIVER
Three Occupants Badly In
jured and Two Others
Are Missing
Only Two Streams Were Available and
Vermont Butter Tub Factory Was De
troyed, with Loss of $50,000 and
Throwing 30 Men 0 of Work.
Barton, May 11. Fire broke out in the
the boiler room of tho Vermont Butter
Tub company's faelory during the mo
mentary absence sf the engineer at 5
o'clock yesterday afternoon, destroying
the main building, xlry kiln, machinery
and considerable lumber and material,
entailing a loss of $.10,01)0. There is in
surance of $0,000. Fifty men are thrown
out of employment. - ,
Owinc to the sncll size r.' the water
main at this point the firemen had only Tugboat Went to Assistance
two enocuve streams 01 water vviin . .
01 .endangered and
MACHINE WRECKED
IN THE POTOMAC
LACKS RUT A YEAR
OF A CENTURY;
STILL VIGOROUS
Rescued Three;
which to fight the flames, which madv)
rapid progress. The two-story wooden
factory was completely destroyed and
the dry kiln was also a total loss. The
Carey Maple Sugar company warehouse
and the E. W. Barron Go's storehouse.
the coal sheds, and the storehouse of the Washington, D. C, May 11 One of the
tub factory were threatened, but little largest aeroplanes which have been flyin,
damaged, the wind being in a favorable I between Newport News and Washington
quarter. 'ell into the Potomac river near Mount
It is not prolalKi that the factory will Vernon to day and was wrecked. Three
be rebuilt as the company had content- (f the occupants who were badly injured
plated moving the machinery to Maine, were rcscueo oy a tugboat and two otn
where it has standing timber. A con- " are missing.
siderable stock of logs floating in the
lake close by win probably be sold- ACCUSED MAN ON STAND.
inn toss is a ncavy one 10 Barton a
the factory employed more than any cue George C. Averill Told of His Acts
nuuairy in lown. ,
as
Banker at Brattleboro.
FORMER VILLISTA
PUT UNDER ARREST
Col. Morin Is Accused of Plotting Up
rising Against Americans Near
Corpus Christi.
Corpus Christi, Tex., May 11. Col.
Morin, a former Villa officer, charged
with plotting an uprising against Amer
cans in this vicinity, was arrested 1!)
miles south of San Antonio to-day by a
United States marshal. He wa heavily
armed and resisted arrest. Important
papers were found in hia possession.
AUTO LICENSE TAKEN AWAY.
Milton Man Was Also Fined in Burling
ton Court.
Burlington. May 11. T. E. Donahue of
Milton was arraigned in city court yes
terday and convicted on the charge of
running Ins automobile in careless and
negligent manner. The case grew out of
a collision Sunday evening on Shelburne
road, when Mr. Donahue drove his caion
the wrong side of the road and struck
the ear of D. V. Goodell of Shelburne.
Mr. Donahue pleaded guilty to the charge
brought against him and was lined five
dollars and costs, which he paid. Ilis
license has also been taken away from
him by Secretary of State Guy W. Bai
ley, f ,
TWO HORSES BURNED.
And Four Small Pigs in Rutland Barn
Fire.
Rutland, May 11. A hastily formed
bucket brigade saved the house on the
A. Sparks farm .on Woodstock ave
nue in the town of. Rutland yesterday
afternoon, but in spite of the efforts, of
the volunteer firemen the Haines totally
destroyed the big general barn and cow
barn, two horse and four small pigs be
ing burned to death besides the loss of tors, who had received orders from the
mucn valuable tarm machinery and tools, comiitroller of the onrrenev
1 no cause or tne tire is not Known, nut The witness claimed he managed the
it is believed to have been started by hank and claimed all rn.snonsih.ilit v for
careless smoker. The cows, about 30 in thn actions tut of the Ku,,L- f",w
number, were in me pasture. his management the dividends increased
The fire was discovered at 2:30 o clock from 10 to. 1 ner nnl. nod the canital
by John Barnes, an employe of the lessee stock from 150.000 to 2(m).mi The
01 the tarm, t.eorge A bury. At this tune numerous entries for which the govern
Burlington, May 1 1. Arguments were
made to-day in I'nited States court in
the case brought against George C. Aver
ill of Brattleboro, charged with irregular
methods in making reports to the comp
troller of the currency while president
ot tne Vermont .National bank at Brat
tleboro. The defendant was the last wit
ness on the stand
lie testified that he came to the bank
as teller in 1885 and a year or so later
became cashier. On the death of the
president he took the presidency
JS!)7 and held that office up to the time
he resigned at the request of the direc
it was, confined to a section of the wag
on shed. An effort whs made to release
the hordes, but by this time the barn
was filled with smoke and within a few
minutes the entire structure, was a mass
of flames.
ment is seeking an explanation were
made, said ' the witness, so that the
city accounts should mjt appear over
drawn.
He proposed to complete the entries
made esrtj' in the day as the business
The loss was estimated at J5000, of the day seemed best ir mvm riirwl.
which is partially covered by insurance. Ld or m.Ae faiKB entries. His Ipnt.imnnr
An effort was made to summon the rhein-
leal from this city, but the tenant of conferences between the bank and ex-
tne farm were unable to get the central aminer. president and directors was much
office on the ilefV
MONTPELIER
NO CASES READY.
County Court Just Pottering Along
May Take Recess To-night.
County court was in session again to
day but, like yesterday, no cases were
ready for hearing by the court and unless
something develops during the day it is
probable that an adjournment will be
taken to-night until next week.
Fred I., laird, counsel for Rev. Fred
erick McNeil, formerly of Graniteville,
has tiled a motion with the court to j
have the verdict against his client for
$4X) set aside on the ground that the
balance of the evidence was with the de
fendant and not the plaintiff, D. H. Mc
Dona Id.
PARENTS ACQUITTED.
Were Accused of Restraining Their Chil
dren From School.
Exeter. X. H
of five Newton children, prosecuted in
court here for restraining their children
from attending school, were found not
guilty to-day by Judge Shute. The par
ents contended that the town of Newton
should furnish transportation, as the
school is two miles from their homes.
Fire Chief and Assistant Get Increase in
Salaries,
Salaries of the chief and assistant chief
of the Montpelier fire department wire
raised $;0 a vear by the city council at
the regular meeting last evening, mak
ing Chief I'attee s yearly stipend from
the city 11150 and Assistant Powers' ;i
even $10)0. The pay of Frank Abair,
Supt. Glinncy's capable assistant in the
water department, was al'o raided to
$3.25 per day with pay for overtime
Although the council transacted but a
small amount of business they managed
to keep in session for over two hour,
the principal part of the time being de
voted to discussion of matters on which
action was deferred.
The report of the finance committee
was received and accepted, the committee
estimating the total amount of -revenue
to be expected at $123,171.41, of which
$107,800 will be derived from taxes. The
tax this vear was fixed at -2.25, but
only $1.40 of this will be available for
the general fund, making the amount
named above, estimating on a grand
list of $77,000.
Following are some of the principal
amounts divided tty the committee to be
appropriated for the different depart
ments: Streets. $in.l34.?2; sidewalks.
$6,000; sewers. $3,500; state roads,
000; fire department, $8,000; police, jtt.
fi(0; ttreet lighting, $0,001); poor depart
ment, $8,100. The committee is composed
of Aldermen Callagher, Kent and Ryan.
C. If. Whilticr appeared before "the
the same as that given by the directors.
He stated that no explanation in answer
to the things brought out br the bank
examiner was asked of him by the direc
tors before he resigned, but that since
that time he had talked with them about
it.
On cross-examination by District At
torney V. M. Bollard. Mr. Averill savJ
that at the present time, as he looks
back, he is of the opinion that he was
not well at the time entries and checks
in question were made. He admitted
that if the charges to the Shawmut liank
had not been made there would have been
an overdraft.
The district attorney went into the re
ports which were sent to the comptrol
ler of the currency, at his request, by
the Vermont National bank, which wen.
signed by President Averill. These re
ports, the witness admitted under the
cross-examination, were not correct, in
some cases to the amount of S52.6SU.70.
Mr. Averill admitted that there wa-;
no way the comptroller on reading the
report would become aware of this un
less his agents were spnt to inquire. On
redirect examination the witness stated
that the figures 'n the report were given
the same as the figures on the books of
the hank.
Several witnesses testified as to the
excellent character of Mr. Averill in 1914
and 1015.
Mrs, Maria V. Duke of Plainfield Called
to Mourn Loss of a Daughter on
the Week of Her Anniversary
She Recalls Old Days.
Plainfield, May 11. Maria V. Duke of
Plainfield was to-day 1)9 years old. She
is still Vigorous in body and mind. She
is now piecing blocks for a ladies' aid
bed quilt. She crochets and has recently
made rugs. She remembers events of 70
years ago better than those of yesterday
and her reminiscences are very interest
ing. When her father cleared land for his
log cabin wood was so plentiful that it
was burned in charcoal pits to get rid of
it. She U'gnn to spin before she was
tall enough to turn the wheel, except by
standing on a plank. Those were the
days of the brick oven, fireplace and tin
der box. There were no matches, no
stoves. In the winter the farmers went
visiting their neighbors on ox sleds and
the talk was about memories of the
Revolution, in which war Mrs. Duke's
grandfather served under f.cneras' Greene
One of the songs she remembers common
ly sung was this:
s shot from off his
PROTEST BY -SCHOOL
BOARD
Against the Employment of
Ward Officer Who Have
Tubercr
.s, Etc.
P0LLT, PLACES
SCHOOL ROOMS
BARRE CASES ARGUED.
council and reminded those present of
May II. The parents jhia offer, made several months ago, ol
deeding Whittier slreet to the city pro
viding the city pay for the expense of
surveying. The offer wss Is id on the
table until the nert meeting to allow
for an investigation by the engineer.
A petition for a hideualk on upjirr
Barre street from Granite street to the
Pioneer bridge was. also received.
BANKER KILLED HIMSELF.
James B. Miller of Springfield, Mass,
Was-in a Hospital.
Providence. R. I., May II. .Tames B.
Miller, president of the (bapin National
bank of Springfield. Ms.. shot himelf
through the held at the Butler hospit.il j tract
je-iraay. rie wss miinn nnconcious nv
a workman and died last right.
FAVORS C. V. CONTROL
Of Southern New England Road Latter
Blot on Landscape.
Boston. May 11. Chairman Frederick
J. Maelyeod of the public service mmmii
ton favored the proposal of tl, Cen
tral Vermont Railway Co. to acquire the
capital stork of the Southern New Kng
land road, now held by the (;rand Trunk,
at a legislative bearing to day. Any on
etruetive f lan to Ir-a.i to the improve
ment and rehatxl UtKn of the (ntral
Vermont an-1 tH? Southern New Ig
land roads m of fiWic interest. As it;
no tand. te South- New Kpgland
is a tVH on the Undwape and eres no'ha h--n approrwia'r'r t-tini-iiet.
f-l purpose, he Mii. F.vpreirj t b'-tf tfcst tie Aaseii-
an enemy wan-hip. On the other hand.
it ran not be denied that, misled bv the l" """"-" ,
inmriaw ..f t lin vnu.l .mHnr th. nr.i. ' lls-e MI UC.1 l, nese state-
sure of the eirnimstan.-es. ho formal lusients, the undersigned axails himself of
judgment too hurriedly in establishing
her ehara-ter and did not therefore act
this occasion to renew tn the ambassador
the assursni of his highest consider
ation. ' on Jngiw."
U. S. NOTE DELIVERED.
Germany Inclines to Think Ihe Negotia
tions Closed.
Prof. George (irost of the I niversitj
of Vermont wa "np f ecral sink
ers at the meeting of the board of trade
last eiening in the city hall, taking o.
his subject the Steven Mil, now pendyi,
in Congress, relating to "tie-up con-
and its enect on retail Ir.i.!-.
fillers who tike were SlirrilT K. li.
Tracy, who had rharge of (hi- clean up
campaign, and H. .1. f onant of the con-
ention committer. The letter discussed ! plaintiff and K
the plans for the New J-i:g!n,I Fruit I loud 1 nt.
snow, i,t is1 npi-i in if.c r,iv vn'l audi'- i
irium n-nt oemlxr. This will he the I
first tini" thst thf hw hs err Ik-ch j
held outside of Boston, and M-nt pi-bcr j If
was a successful tc icr tor the nnu
against ProvidenrA. t. I., and Portland.
Me.
At the home of Mrs. f. ( PmTer on
Elm street Isst riming miscrliincoii
shower was given Mis K.-nie R,imonil.
S teacher in the
marriage takes
One a Pauper Suit; Other Against Con
solidated Lighting Co.
Cases are being disposed of as rapidly
as possible in supreme court, with the
prospect that the end of the week may
witness the finish of the May term. Two
Washington county cases were argued
this forenoon, the first being R. C. Bow
ers vs. Drew Daniels Granite Co., the
plaintiff being the appealing party. John
V. Gordon appeared tor the plaintiff and
Harry C. Shurtlcff for the defendant.
The second rase to be taken up was that
of Byron I.. Wilbur vs. Town of Calais,
a pauper case from Barre city court. In
the municipal court judgment for the
plaintiff was entered for .I...J and costs,
exceptions being taken by the defendant.
Tlienault A Hunt appear for the plain
tiff. '
Vesterday afternoon the rase of Wil
liam K. Hicliards s. Consolidated Light
ing t o. was heard. In Washington coun
ty court the jury was directed to return
a erdict for the defendant. II. W. Scott
and John W . l.ordon appeared for the
.VI. Hartcv tor the dc-
Brave Wolfe v
horse.
He lifted up his head when dying
And cried 'How goes the battle?'
His aide-de-camp said 'All in our favor.'
Weil then, he said, 'I die with pleas
lire. r
tine of .Mrs. imkes ancestors was
among the Pilgrims who landed on Plym
outh rock.
I he school which she attended when a
little girl was kept by an old school
master in a long blue coat with red flan
nel lining. Thn room was warmed bv
an open fireplace and the benches ran
along three sides of the room.
When Maria was a girl of IS she
tanght school in a log schoolhouse near
her home 111 W oodbury, on the old road
from Hardwick to Kent's Corners. She
received one dollar a week and "boarded
around." Only reading, writing,- spelling
and numbers were taught.
I hough born on east bill in W oodbury,
Mrs. Duke began keeping house in Mont-
pelier, being married to Levi Duke by
Rev. Mr. Kellogg Jan. 26, 1844. She
worked as a tailoress before the days of
sewing machines, stitching by the light
of tallow candles.
She tells the story of a watch meeting
a schoolhouse, when just as midnight
came, before the minister could sav a
word, the door was opened and thevfa
ther of Charles Heath, the well known
lawyer of long ago, stuck his head in and
shouted. "Wish you a happy New Year
with your hearts full of honesty and
your pockets full of cash!"
From Montpeber the Dukes returned
Woodbury to live 10 years, moving
from there to Marshfield. Then, after a
few years in Woodsville, they came to
Plainfield, where Mrs. Duke still lives,
making her home with her daughter, Mrs.
Ella Kelley, who is the last of her six
daughters. One other, Ida, who died in
lirookneld, Mass., was huried at Plain-
field on Tuesday of this present week
Mr. Duke also has two sons, E. V. Duke
of Plainfield, a veteran of the Civil war
and his younger brother, who lives in
l-ennoxville. Canada, and whose son has"
just gone to the front in the Europea
ar.
Mrs. Duke wss baptized on Maple hill,
She joined the Methodist church in Octo
bcr, 1SS6, and is still greatly interested
in the work, and occasionally attends its
services. She was brought lip on the
hymns of Dr. Watts and likes to quote
"And am I born to die
And be to judgment brought.
And in that day an answer bring
For every vain and idle thought?"
The Sad Feature of Anniversary.
Ida (Duke) Davis died May 6 in Brook
field, Mass.. at the age of 50 years. Her
remains were brought to Plainfield for
burial and the funeral waa held at the
home of E. V. Duke at. 2 o'clock Tuesday,
Rev. A. W. Hewitt officiated. She leaves
besides her husband, ffeorge Davis of
Brookfield. a daughter, Mrs. Lena Gard
ner of Springfield, Mass., and a son. Lee
Osgood of Munson, Mass.; a mother,
Mrs. Mario Duke, who is 99 years of age;
a sister. Mrs. M. Kelley j tw o brothers
E. V. Duke of Plainfield and K H. Duke
of Lennoxville, Que. She also leaves
many other relatives, who mourn her
death.
Mrs. Davis was born in Marshfield and
passed her early life in Marshfield and
Plainfield. where she was well known
Flowers were: Pillow of roses with name
"Wife," pillow of roses with name
"Mother," roses with name "Daughter,1
roses with name "Sister," pinks from
Miss Eula Kelley. Among the out of
town persons to attend were Levi Duke
Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kellev and children
of Mont pelier.
The Board of Civil Authority
Took No Action Beyond
Accepting Communication
BIG CROWD AT NURSES' DANCE.
WON'T INSIST ON "T. R."
Republican Patty Will Name Man
Satisfactory to Progressives.
New M,ik May II. The Progressive
party will not insist on the nomination
I heodore Ho-see f(1
full in accorilam-e with the strict instruc
tions which called iinn him to exercise
particular care.
"In view of these circumstance, the
German government frankly admits that
the assurance given to the American
government, in ace rdame with which
passenger essel were not to Ik- attacked
without warning, has nt been adher,-d
to in the present cas. As was inti
mated by the undersigned in the ntte of
the fourth instant the t.eiman povem-
ment does not ninuuo 10 ariw irom tun ; ,rf,fn(,ll 0f th not te l.erman jeondnHirg eiam-ntns in the Senile,
resultant confluences. It th refre m,rj..,B Smjirine rontrorr is re- rm!r at the M.itc Hons. a lrkc
press U tV American government it clri;, here as nettle,!, and nejrot nations 1 number of and; iatcs ! ,rg 1 resent. T !v!t," declared Mr. Perkins, "and !lt
sincere regret regarding the d,-p!.-rat,'e i M fr as ther ronrrn the past, are vir-:ummlW are in charge of Varv K. J suggest his nime to the Kcpur.hcan. It
incident and de- iarcs its readiness t,. ty j tually rliusl! trmany lxd-ia that it S huma-her ef Pra-1 VWo. tVe s rrt ry 1 1 !y reply that tHcv will m t arree on
an adeij-iate indemn ty t the iniorr 1 orrfrn t submarine commanders were of t'.e lsfi. tbr colonel, we -ha'! a-k Uieni to name
A merit an r:tirens. It a'" di-arprosed
e.f the onnd'ict of the cmvaftcr. w N
How land Hall Held One of Its Largest
Dancing Assemblies Last Evening.
The general interest in the efforts of
the nurses of the Barre City hospital to
equip the nurses' home with many ar
ticles for comfort and convenience was
revealed in the very large attendance at
the nurses' ball, which was held at How
land hall lest evening. Probably as
many as ."iiKl tickets were sold for the
affair and about 2."d couples presented
themselves for an evening of pleasure at I
dancing. Carroll's orchestra furnished 1
the music for a dance order w hich tHrfedj
shortly after R o'clock and continued ti!l
2 o'clock this morning. At time the
floor was crowded so closely that Iancing
was somewhat difficult.
The patronesses of the dime were Mrs.
M. L. Chandler. Mrs. K. L. I.ancrley. Mr
Revision of the checklists to be used
at the primary election Tuesday was
completed by the board of civil authority
at a meeting in the city court room last
evening. Ten members of the board
were present and Alderman A. M. Rossi
acted as chairman. Sixteen changes were
made at the two meetings of the board,
the first session having been held last
week. As the appearances were so few
in number, it is probable that the city
will not be put to the expense of having
new checklist, as the names to be trans
ferred from one ward to another and the
new names will be inserted with a pen.
In a communication addressed to the
city clerk, who was requested to bring the.
matter before the board, the school com
mission took a decided stand against per
sons infected with contagious diseases to
serve as ward officers where the school -
houses are used for polling places. In
the letter, signed by Harvey E. Averill,
secretary of the board, unanimity of
opinion was represented in a. request that
persons infected with tuberculosis and
oiher contagious diseases," be inhibited
from serving in schoolhouse polling
places on account of the danger of infec
tion among school children. No action
was taken bv the board beyond a vote
to accept the communication. The ward
officers were elected for the year at a
meeting of the board of civil authority
just prior to the March election and with
one or two exceptions where substitu
tions were made necessary by removals,
the officers who served March 7 will re
main in office until next March, as they
are elected for the year.
Following are the changes and. addi
tions by wards:
Ward 1 George Kent, Ewen McKen
zie, W. H. Messer and C. C. Perkins.
, Ward 2 John Gibb. J. A. Healy, Ros
eoe P. Lvnde, C. F. Millar, M. F. Spen
cer, William Walker, E. L. Ward.
Wlard 3 John M. McPhee, Philip Ver
eo. ' Ward 4 William Stephens.
Ward 5 Antonio Abiati and Edward
M. Keefe.
No appearances were registered from
the sixth ward at either of the two meet
ings. The Ward Officers.
Ward officers who are to serve Tuesday
are given in the list below.
Ward 1 Ward clerk, George N. Til
den; inspectors, Harry McNeil, George F.
Howe, G. I. Becklev; "ballot clerks. W. .)".
Clapp, John Paul, D. R. IStuart, tbarles
Olliver; assistants, E. J. Owens and E.
N. Philbrick.
Ward 2 Ward clerk, C. A. Lundgieti;
inspectors, B. P. White, R. W. C lark,
Robert Inglis; ballot elerks, II. A. Rugg;
R. S. Currier, John Jones,, John Rowley;
assistants, James Brown, A. G. l-ay.
Ward 3 Ward clerk, F. W. Bancroft ;
inspectors. C. C. Varnev. George H. lloyt.
J. B. Sanguinetti; ballot clerks, John H.
Bishop, Alex Dowers, Atlo .Mariam, Alex.
W. Murray; assistants, F. T. Cutler and
Peter Thom.
Ward 4 Ward clerk, Duncan McMil
lan, jr.; inspectors, James Moruzzi, B. B.
Jackson, James Glass; ballot clerks, (j. I..
Gregoire, Thomas C. tarson, William
Skerritt, John Rae; assistants,. K. An
derson, Teter Thom. '
Ward 5 Ward clerk. S. !. Cardi; in
spectors, Frank E. Comolli, W. A. Redly,
I. Howes; ballot clerks, Jasper fiiz-
O
zozero, James Walker, Celeste Bianrhi,
Angelo Della-Bernardini; assistants, An-
gelo Bottiggi, James Hastings. .
Ward 6 Ward clerk, A. t.. Lainptiell;
inspectors, Prank Hiennayer. h. I. .Mow
er, Charles ay; ballot clerks, E. R. Da
vis. Carl C. Rollins, rranr. D. Anderson.
W. Camp; assistants, L. C. Beck and
George Cooper.
BURIAL AT BERLIN.
Following Funeral of W. M. Stewart 'n
Barre Wednesday.
The funeral of William M. Stewart,
respected resident of Barre, whose deatU
at hi home in the .Morse blo k Sunday
morning followed a long period of de
clining health, was held at the mortuary
hapel of A. W. Padger & Co. WedneMlay
afternoon at I:' o clock. Rev. J. ..
Reardon. pastor of the Crmcrsai st
church, officiating. Relatives-of the d
ceased acted as bearers and the remains
were removed to Berlin corner, where in
terment was made in the cemeterv . Re' .
Mr. Reardon conducted services at thi
graveside and the funeral party returned
to Ihnre carlv lat evening.
TALK OF THE TOWN,
Edward Kingston left the city this
morning tor r,ritoJ. Conn., where he ha
secured employment in a machine shop.
Mr. and Mrs. S. .1. Shufelt of l"t
f W" Js.kson. Mrs. F. i. How hind. Mr.! South Main street will irlcbrate the -"tl
. i. Moore. Mrs. V. K. fji?eN. Mrs. ! anniversary of their marriage by keeping
William Jtarclsv. Airs. XV. Drew. Mr.. I nocn house Monday. May I .v. tmm .' u-
l;. N. Tdbn. Mr-. lames Mackay. Mrs.jtd 3 o'clock in the afternoon antagin
W. D. Peid. Mrs
I. W. Stewart, M;-s. 'the evening from 7 until I", when they
public scIhh.Is. h i,oe : w ill name a candidate at I hicago -
Berlin, bv w irrle-. to Tuekertem. X. .f. . marriage takes pia.-e im summer, v; ih i sianos ir piogrc-Mvc principles ana is
Mav II. I he American reply to the ' Raymon I was snrpns. , a rtimher ofiah'e to put them through, according n
Herman note waa delivered bv ".AmbasM ler friends and lf i ige was enjove I citir-j statement made here last night by
d..r f.emrd to the foreign office at I ; " evening. ,.eorge W. I erk.n. after a meeting thnut ,in .-, ,T, :U1lI(.
"VU-k yesterday afternoon. With the! I be K ard of restoration of nut i-;thc exes-tit" cnmidtee ,.f the I'rogrc- j - h ,,,.,.),. f equipment for the
n.r' bom. Tlos is in a l-bt'on to V1
hi. h vv as ra iscj
ot i neo,n,re t,o- seven tor president l ' ' . . . . .. . . -. ... -u .w-,.
the In, ted States, if the Kcpubl.c;..,, " '"'" V. - w , ' ' '
'lend. Mrs. ft, X. Granger and Mrs. II. .f.
;-, ton. I
I The exact amount t he reanej from;
the ,'ance is n"t certain, nut it is ex-
irr national ci'tro't.
"We, of r mre. re tm ( oh-nel !Vos
is.ne.J Without string, f-r r-nvvbt ". sr-l
t"at tnerefor there ta I tt -e r .n in , . .,.,)
tak np tSe latent lvt fr further d -) n. on
Xb se--fid gaece fr MortTlr K -h - lheir man. who might to ! as n,i'1"
st'l " i'sv, ! t. morr-, gi'r, . , iiiiniMm-iiv a ehm.-e as mr man i-. vie
niry orritis t , s. s ,. iar.- i!!ej i- t-e rsa-nat.ie l-r tie Mkr
i f I.jrn.- r v ."
Event that are to fgu'e in the tiak
meet at the Aver street driving pa'k
s-atnrHay bet evn t.od lard seminary en I
the lUrr bo company have l-ecii -
lected a f o'low : Di.hes. -.ssi lit
and f"4' vards; quarter mile, one :nir
and two m:le run; low and high hor.lie-.
hv Mis. rick un. the ' running, higi, an.! t-r -a t w-opv s ,,.t j, 1. 1.
npcrintendert. for the porchase of j Hissti tiuowrg. hammer throwing art
keirton. the i-vps-n I'tur of tlt miwv'tlif po'e vauh. It is interesting t.. not
not 1-eirg nees.,ry when In-. W. D. Rod that the sate events wiil t'gnr ii. I
grneroiis'v donated skeleton. j if,trs--hola-t ir pec-gram at I'.ml r.-ion a
Tie roirs are tnu.h rinsed ! the ' rtn gM atter vt ird v s rrr t. IVII
outline - ! d n.e and wi-h to thank ' nf running events m! ! m pr-gres
a thoM- wh ovntr.biited ;n aer w ay t1-' Saturday at the san e in-e. ti c t rt
war ! its sue.. ' ' event l-g-Tr. rg at 3 o r' . k.
t
